Concentrated KnowledgeTM for the Busy Executive

Vol. 27, No. 12 (2 parts), Part 2, December 2005 · Order # 27-30

FILE: SUCCESS/CAREER TECHNIQUES

®

By John C. Maxwell
CONTENTS
The Readiness Question: Are We Prepared for Relationships?
Pages 2, 3
The Connection Question: Are We Willing to Focus on Others?
Pages 3, 4
The Trust Question: Can We Build Mutual Trust?
Pages 5, 6
The Investment Question: Are We Willing to Invest in Others?
Pages 6, 7
The Synergy Question: Can We Create a Win-Win Relationship?
Pages 7, 8

Discover the People Principles That Work for You Every Time
WINNING WITH PEOPLE
THE SUMMARY IN BRIEF
What does it take to win with people? Good relationships are the foundation for achievement. Relationships are more than just the icing on the cake in life: They are the cake -- the very substance we need to live successful and fulfilling lives.
Many people fall into the trap of taking relationships for granted. That's not good because our ability to build and maintain healthy relationships is the single most important factor in how we get along in every area of life. Our people skills determine our potential success.
In this summary, renowned leadership expert and author John C. Maxwell describes how anyone can improve his or her relationship skills. With 25 "People Principles" that anyone can learn and use anywhere he or she might be, Maxwell shows how relationships can be created and strengthened for success in work and life.
Fortunately, Maxwell explains, anyone can learn to become a people person and succeed in the things that matter the most. This summary provides the tools needed to immediately improve existing relationships as well as cultivate strong, exciting and new ones. The skills used plus the relationships chosen equal success.
What You'll Learn In This Summary
 Better ways to prepare for relationships.  How to examine ourselves.  How to connect with others by focusing on them.  How to put ourselves in other people's place.  Ways to build mutual trust.  How to make an investment in other people.  Better ways to create synergistic, win-win relationships.  How to increase your odds of winning with others.
Published by Soundview Executive Book Summaries, P.O. Box 1053, Concordville, PA 19331 USA © 2005 Soundview Executive Book Summaries · All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or part is prohibited.

WINNING WITH PEOPLE
by John C. Maxwell
-- THE COMPLETE SUMMARY

The Readiness Question: Are We Prepared for Relationships?
Not everyone has the skills to initiate, build and sustain good, healthy relationships. Many people grow up in dysfunctional households and never have positive relationships modeled for them. Some people are so focused on themselves and their needs that others might as well not even exist. Still others have been hurt so badly in the past that they see the whole world through the filter of their pain. Because of huge relational blind spots, they don't know themselves or how to relate to people in a healthy way. It takes relationally healthy people to build great relationships.
The Lens Principle
Who you are determines what you see and the way you see it. What is around us doesn't determine what we see: What is within us does. And who you are determines how you see others. If you are a trusting person, you will see others as trustworthy. If you are a critical person, you will see others as critical. If you are a caring person, you will see others as compassionate.
The way you view others is determined by who you are. If you don't like people, that really is a statement about you and the way you look at people. Your viewpoint is the problem. If that's the case, don't try to change others. Don't even focus on others; focus on yourself. If you change yourself and become the kind of person you desire to be, you will begin to view others in a whole new light. And that will change the way you interact in all of your relationships.
The Mirror Principle
People unaware of who they are and what they do often damage relationships with others. The way to change that is to look in the mirror. Consider these truths that we must learn about ourselves:
Self-Awareness. Human nature seems to endow people with the ability to size up everybody in the world but themselves.
Self-Image. Your image of yourself restricts your ability to build healthy relationships. A negative selfimage will keep a person from being successful. If those with a poor self-image do somehow achieve success, it

won't last because they will eventually bring themselves down to the level of their own expectations.
Self-Honesty. Comedian Jack Parr quipped, "Looking back, my life seems like one big obstacle race, with me being the chief obstacle." What can save us is a willingness to get honest about our shortcomings, faults and problems.
Self-Improvement. Critic Samuel Johnson advised that "he who has so little knowledge of human nature as to seek happiness by changing anything but his own disposition will waste his life in fruitless efforts and multiply the grief which he purposes to remove."
Self-Responsibility. No significant accomplishments can be achieved by individual effort. However, every significant accomplishment begins with the vision of one individual. Once we possess the vision, we must take responsibility for carrying it to others.
The Pain Principle
German poet Herman Hesse wrote, "If you hate a person, you hate something in him that is part of yourself. What isn't part of ourselves doesn't disturb us." When hurting people lash out, it is in response to what's happening inside them more than what's happening around them. They feel or believe something negative within themselves. The problem is that people who don't believe in themselves will never succeed, and they will also keep those around them from succeeding.
Not only do hurting people hurt others, but they are also
(continued on page 3)
The author: Leadership expert John C. Maxwell has communicated his leadership principles to Fortune 500 companies, the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, the NBA and the NFL. He is the author of more than 30 books, including Developing the Leader Within You, Your Road Map for Success, and The 21 Irrefutable Laws of Leadership.
Copyright © 2004 by John C. Maxwell. Summarized by permission of the publisher, Nelson Books, a division of Thomas Nelson Publishers, P.O. Box 141000, Nashville, TN 37214-1000. 275 pages. $24.99. ISBN 0-7852-6089-7.
Summary Copyright © 2005 by Soundview Executive Book Summaries.1-800-SUMMARY, 1-610-558-9495.

Published by Soundview Executive Book Summaries (ISSN 0747-2196), P.O. Box 1053, Concordville, PA 19331 USA, a division of Concentrated Knowledge Corp. Published monthly. Subscriptions: $195 per year in the United States, Canada and Mexico, and $275 to all other countries. Periodicals postage paid at Concordville, Pa., and additional offices.
Postmaster: Send address changes to Soundview, P.O. Box 1053, Concordville, PA 19331. Copyright © 2005 by Soundview Executive Book Summaries.
Available formats: Summaries are available in print, audio and electronic formats. To subscribe, call us at 1-800-SUMMARY (610-558-9495 outside the United States and Canada). Multiple-subscription discounts and corporate site licenses are also available.

2

Soundview Executive Book Summaries®

Soundview
Executive Book Summaries®
TOM MOORE ­ Contributing Editor DEBRA A. DEPRINZIO ­ Senior Graphic Designer
CHRIS LAUER ­ Senior Editor CHRISTOPHER G. MURRAY ­ Editor in Chief
GEORGE Y. CLEMENT ­ Publisher

Winning With People -- SUMMARY

The Readiness Question: Are We Prepared for Relationships?
(continued from page 2)
easily hurt by others. As you interact with others, remember this: Any time a person's response is larger than the issue at hand, the response is almost always about something else.

value to their lives, keep the following in mind:  Lifters commit themselves to daily encouragement.  Lifters know the little difference that separates hurting and helping.  Lifters initiate the positive in a negative environment.  Lifters understand life is not a dress rehearsal. 

If you find yourself dealing with a hurting person, don't
take it personally. Look beyond the person and the situation The Connection Question: Are

for the problem. Try not to add to his or her hurt. Forgive those who lash out at you, try to help them and move on.
The Hammer Principle
Psychologist Abraham Maslow observed, "If the only tool you have is a hammer, you tend to see every problem as a nail." People require more judicious treatment than that. When little things bother us, our primary objective must be putting our personal agendas aside and building relationships. When tempted to use overkill, the following four Ts can help you temper your behavior:
Total Picture. If you come to conclusions long before the problem has been detailed, you should listen, ask questions, listen again, ask more questions, listen some more and then respond.
Timing. Noted hostess and writer Lady Dorothy Nevill observed, "The real art of conversation is not only to say the right thing in the right place, but to leave unsaid the wrong thing at the tempting moment."
Tone. People often respond to our attitudes and actions more than to our words. Many petty conflicts occur because people use the wrong tone of voice.
Temperature. The size of a problem often changes based on how it is handled. If the reaction is worse than the action, the problem usually increases. If the reaction is less than the action, the problem usually decreases.
The Elevator Principle
People can be the wind beneath our wings or the anchor on our boat. People who add value to others almost always do so intentionally. Adding value to others requires a person to give of him- or herself. That rarely occurs by accident.
In relationships, receiving is easy. Giving is much more difficult. We all want to be a positive influence in the lives of others. If you want to lift people up and add
How to Develop a Softer Touch

We Willing to Focus on Others?
All human beings possess a desire to connect with other people. The need for connection is sometimes motivated by the desire for love, but it can just as easily be prompted by feelings of loneliness, the need for acceptance, the quest for fulfillment or the desire to achieve in business.
To fulfill our desire for relationships, we must stop thinking about ourselves and begin focusing on the people with whom we desire to build relationships. When you stop worrying so much about yourself and start looking at others and what they desire, you build a bridge to other people and you become the kind of person others want to be around.
The Big Picture Principle
People who remain self-centered and self-serving will always have a hard time getting along with others. To help them break that pattern of living, they need to see the big picture, which requires perspective, maturity and responsibility. Here are some steps to follow:
Get out of your "own little world." Go places you have never gone, meet the kinds of people you do not know, and do the things you have not done before.
Check your ego at the door. If your focus is always on yourself, you'll never be able to build positive relationships.
Understand what brings fulfillment. Ultimately, the things that bring fulfillment involve others. A person who is entirely self-focused will always feel restless and hungry because he or she separates him- or herself from what's most important in life: people.
The Exchange Principle
Instead of putting others in their place, we must put ourselves in their place. When we fail to see things from the perspective of others, we fail in our relationships.
To become better at making the exchange, at seeing things from another person's perspective, do the following:

 Let the past stay in the past.  Ask yourself, Is my reaction part of the problem?  Remember that actions are remembered long
after words are forgotten.  Never let the situation mean more than the
relationship.  Treat loved ones with unconditional love.  Admit wrongs and ask forgiveness.

Leave "your place" and visit "their place." Do whatever you can to change your perspective. Listen to people's concerns. Study their culture or profession. Read in their areas of interest. Or literally visit their place.
Acknowledge that the other person has a valid viewpoint. People's belief systems and personal experiences are diverse and complex, and even if you do work to see things
(continued on page 4)

Soundview Executive Book Summaries®

3

Winning With People -- SUMMARY

The Connection Question: Are We Willing to Focus on Others?
(continued from page 3)
from another person's point of view, there will still be differences of opinion. Working to find the legitimacy of another person's point of view stretches your thinking.
Check your attitude. It is always easy to see both sides of an issue about which we are not particularly concerned. It is much harder when we have a vested interest in it. When that's the case, we are often more concerned with getting our way than connecting with others.
Ask others what they would do in your situation. The key to the exchange principle is empathy. When you have empathy with others' points of view, it becomes much easier to connect with them because they know that you care.
The Learning Principle
Each person we meet has the potential to teach us something. All of us can learn things in unlikely places and from unlikely people. But that's only true if we have the right attitude. If you have a teachable attitude, you will be positioned well to learn from others. Then all you will need to do is to take the following five steps:
1. Make Learning Your Passion. Management expert Philip Crosby notes, "There is a theory of human behavior that says people subconsciously retard their own intellectual growth. They come to rely on cliches and habits. Once they reach the age of their own personal comfort with the world, they stop learning and their mind runs on idle for the rest of their days. They may progress organizationally, they may be ambitious and eager, and they may even work night and day. But they learn no more." If you desire to keep growing, you cannot sit back in a comfort zone.
2. Value People. People don't learn from people they don't value.
3. Develop Relationships With Growth Potential. Find people who are especially likely to help you grow: experts in your field, creative thinkers who stretch you mentally, and achievers who inspire you to go to the next level.
4. Identify People's Uniqueness and Strengths. Philosopher and poet Ralph Waldo Emerson remarked, "I have never met a man who was not my superior in some particular." People grow best in their areas of strength -- and can learn the most from another person's area of strength. For that reason, you can't be indiscriminate in choosing the people you seek out to teach you.
5. Ask Questions. Learning begins with listening. The best way to learn is to watch others and ask questions.
The Charisma Principle
People are interested in the person who is interested in them. According to Dale Carnegie, "You can make more friends in two months by becoming interested in

other people than you can in two years by trying to get other people interested in you." Carnegie's teachings in How to Win Friends and Influence People include:
 Become genuinely interested in other people. People don't care how much you know until they know how much you care.
 Smile. If you want to draw others to you, light up your face with a smile.
 Remember names. A person's name is the sweetest and most important sound to that person.
 Be a good listener. Encourage others to talk about themselves.
 Talk in terms of the other person's interests. Treat others the way they want to be treated.
 Make the other person feel important. Become sincerely interested in others.
The Number 10 Principle
All people have potential. Everyone you meet can be a 10. Believing in people usually brings out the best in them. If people believe in themselves, they can reach their potential and become the individuals they were created to be. If you've been hurt or disappointed in the past, don't let that negatively color your attitude in the future.
Philosopher and poet Johann Wolfgang von Goethe said, "Treat a man as he appears to be and you make him worse. But treat a man as if he already were what he potentially could be, and you make him what he should be."
The Confrontation Principle
Caring for people should precede confronting people. Conflict is like cancer: Early detection increases the possibility of a healthy outcome. While intellectually it's simple to resolve conflict, emotionally it can be difficult. It requires honesty, humility and dedication to the relationship. Take these steps when confronting someone:
 Confront a person only if you care about that person. It is more productive to go into a confrontation keeping the other person's interests in mind.
 Meet together as soon as possible. Putting off confrontation only causes the situation to fester.
 First seek understanding, not necessarily agreement. The person who gives an opinion before he or she understands is human, but the person who gives a judgment before he or she understands is a fool.
 Outline the issue. Be positive, describe your perceptions, state how this situation makes you feel, and explain why this is important to you.
 Encourage a response.  Agree to an action plan that clearly identifies the issue and spells out concrete steps that will be taken. The action plan should include a commitment by both parties to put the issue to rest once resolved. 

4

Soundview Executive Book Summaries®

Winning With People -- SUMMARY

The Trust Question: Can We Build Mutual Trust?
Philosopher and poet Ralph Waldo Emerson said, "The glory of friendship is not the outstretched hand, not the kindly smile, nor the joy of companionship; it is the spiritual inspiration that comes to one when you discover that someone else believes in you and is willing to trust you with a friendship."
Why do many personal and business relationships fall apart? The reasons for such breakdowns are many, but the cause that outweighs all others is broken trust.
The Bedrock Principle

mind that there is a big difference between a situation that occurs once and one that occurs again and again.
The Bob Principle
If Bob has problems with Bill, and Bob has problems with Fred, and Bob has problems with Sue, and Bob has problems with Jane, and Bob has problems with Sam, then Bob is usually the problem.
Every problem starter is like a fire lighter. And each of us is like a person carrying two buckets. One is filled with water and the other with gasoline. When we see a problem fire being lit, we can choose to douse it with water and put it out, or we can throw gasoline on it and make it worse.
If you have someone who creates and spreads problems,

In his book, On Becoming a Leader, Warren Bennis

respond with a positive comment, show your concern for

says, "Integrity is the basis of trust, which is not so

the person being criticized, and encourage steps toward res-

much an ingredient of leadership as it is a product. It is olution. Not everyone will respond positively to your sug-

the one quality that cannot be acquired, but must be

gestions. But if you have a strong connection with a Bob

earned. It is given by co-workers and followers, and

or you are in a position of authority with him, then ask

without it, the leader can't function."

him to THINK before he speaks using this acronym:

That can be said not only of leaders and followers, but

T

Is it true?

also of all relationships. Developing trust is like constructing a building. It takes time, and it must be done one piece at a time. As in construction, it's much quicker and easier to tear something down than it is to build it up. But if the foundation is strong, there is a good chance that what is built upon it will stand.
If you desire to build your trustworthiness -- and as a result, your relationships -- remember:

H

Is it helpful?

I

Is it inspiring?

N

Is it necessary?

K

Is it kind?

If he can answer yes to all of these questions, then it's

appropriate for him to proceed.

The Approachability Principle

Trust begins with yourself. If you are not honest

Being at ease with ourselves helps others be at ease with

with yourself, you will not be capable of honesty with

us. People miss many opportunities for connection and the

others. Self-deception is the enemy of relationships.

chance to build deeper relationships because they do not

Trust cannot be compartmentalized. Many people today try to compartmentalize their lives. They believe

make themselves approachable. Approachable people usually exhibit the following seven characteristics:

that they can cut corners or compromise their values in

1. Personal warmth. Approachable people truly like

one area of life and it won't affect another area. But

people. To be approachable, you need to generate per-

character doesn't work that way. And neither does trust. sonal warmth toward the people you meet.

Trust works like a bank account. Mike Abrashoff,

2. Appreciation for the differences in people.

author of It's Your Ship, states, "Trust is like a bank

Approachable people appreciate people for who they are

account -- you have got to keep making deposits if you and what they have to offer.

want it to grow. On occasion, things will go wrong, and you will have to make a withdrawal. Meanwhile, it is sitting in the bank earning interest."

3. Consistency of mood. Approachable people are evenkeeled and predictable. You know what you'll get because they are basically the same every time you see them.

The Situation Principle
Never let the situation mean more than the relationship. It is more rewarding to resolve a situation than to dissolve a relationship. Any time a person puts the situation ahead of the relationship, it happens for one reason: loss of perspective. People are always more important than mere things. Our property, our position and our agenda are transitory.
Whenever we experience a rough time in a relationship, we need to remind ourselves of why that relationship is

4. Sensitivity toward people's feelings. Although approachable people are emotionally steady, they might not expect others to be that way. They tune in to the moods and feelings of others, and then adjust how they relate to them.
5. Understanding of human weaknesses and exposure of their own. Approachable people are honest about their abilities and shortcomings. They are willing to be told not what they want to hear but what they need to hear.
6. Ability to forgive easily and quickly ask for for-

significant to us in the first place. Also, we must keep in

(continued on page 6)

Soundview Executive Book Summaries®

5

Winning With People -- SUMMARY

The Trust Question: Can We Build Mutual Trust?
(continued from page 5)
giveness. Approachable people quickly ask for forgiveness and easily grant it to others.
7. Authenticity. Approachable people are real. They engage with others on a genuine level, and don't pretend to be someone they're not. They don't go out of their way to hide what they think and feel. They have no hidden agenda.
The Foxhole Principle
We face many kinds of battles in life, and the "foxholes" we sometimes inhabit come in many shapes and sizes. These foxholes can include the home, a business, a sports team, a small group, a platoon or something else. When preparing for battle, dig a hole big enough for a friend. The foxhole is for you and a friend, not a friend alone. You can ask a friend to fight with you, but you should never send someone else to fight your battles. And you should be willing to fight for any friend whose help you would request.
You might have many friends, but not all of them will be foxhole friends. For that matter, you will not be that kind of an ally to everyone in your life either. Foxhole friendships are special. Even before the battle, simply knowing that someone believes in you and will fight for you is uplifting. People who climb down into the foxhole with you see things from your point of view and they express empathy for your situation. That makes them not only a great help, but also a great comfort. 
The Investment Question: Are We Willing to Invest in Others?
Are you willing to invest in other people? You may build a beautiful house, but eventually it will crumble. You may develop a fine career, but one day it will be over. You may save a great sum of money, but you can't take it with you. You may be in superb health today, but in time it will decline. You may take pride in your accomplishments, but someone will surpass you.
Relationships are like anything else. The return you get depends on what you invest.
The Gardening Principle

ship by focusing on the following six things:
Commitment. Every long-lasting relationship suffers strains and setbacks. No two people agree on everything. Even the best friendships can expect to face conflict. The question is: What are you going to do when trouble comes?
Communication. A relationship begins with easy communication. It deepens with more difficult communication. And it is sustained with intentional communication.
Friendship. Critic Samuel Johnson remarked, "If a man does not make new acquaintances as he advances through life, he will soon find himself left alone; a man, sir, should keep his friendship in a constant repair." That goes for old friendships as well as new ones. We sometimes take for granted the people closest to us, and as a result, we neglect to try being good friends to them first.
Memories. Shared memories are a wonderful source of connection and bonding for people.
Growth. When you begin any friendship, it is filled with promise. But you have to find ways to keep it fresh and strong so that it continues to have potential and not just good memories.
Spoiling Each Other. Voltaire wrote, "If the first law of friendship is that it has to be cultivated, the second law is to be indulgent when the first law has been neglected." Let your friends and family members know how much you care as often as you can.
The 101 Percent Principle
Sometimes building relationships is an uphill battle, and connecting with another person can be particularly difficult. How do you connect with people when you seem to have nothing in common with them? Can you build relational bridges in such circumstances? And if so, can the relationships be healthy, long-lasting and productive?
When the connection is difficult, you must find the one thing the two of you can agree upon. You can do that with just about anybody. The problem is that many people naturally take the opposite approach; they look for differences. Why? Sometimes it's due to natural competitiveness; people are often looking for an edge. Sometimes it's to make themselves stand out and to find their own distinctiveness. Other times, people focus on differences because they feel threatened by others.
When connection is difficult, you must find the one thing the two of you can agree upon. The greater the differences, the more important it is to focus on what you agree on. Once you do, give it 100 percent of your effort.

All relationships need cultivation. You cannot neglect a

The Patience Principle

relationship and expect it to grow. That's not to say that all relationships are the same and need the same amount of attention. The nature and purpose of the relationship will determine the energy and time needed to cultivate it.
You can start to cultivate a healthy, growing relation-

The journey with others is slower than the journey alone. Here are the steps you can take to become a more patient person in relationships:
Prioritize patience as a virtue worthy of develop-
(continued on page 7)

6

Soundview Executive Book Summaries®

Winning With People -- SUMMARY

The Investment Question:

us, but it won't attract them to us either; it is reactive rather

Are We Willing to Invest in Others?
(continued from page 6)
ing. Oft-quoted Arnold Glasgow stated, "You get the chicken by hatching the egg, not smashing it." In the long run, you will find that patience with people is beneficial to you. But you may not see a return right away.
Understand that it takes time to build good relationships. Relationships of any depth take time. The more people involved in the relational circle, the longer it takes.
Practice the exchange principle. Each of us thinks our circumstances warrant special consideration -- people should be extra patient with us. Instead, put yourself in the other person's place and be extra patient with him or her.
Realize that people have and create problems. When you decide to develop a relationship with another person, it's a package deal. You don't get to take only the good stuff and reject the bad. Try to give others the same kind of grace you'd like to receive for your shortcomings.

than proactive and allows others to set the agenda for our lives. The high road helps to create positive relationships and attracts others to us; it sets a positive agenda with others that even negative people find difficult to undermine.
High roaders understand that it's not what happens to you but what happens in you that really matters. Newscaster David Brinkley observed, "A successful man is one who can lay a firm foundation with the bricks others have thrown at him." They commit to traveling the high road continually. Nearly anyone can be kind in the face of unkindness every once in a while: It's more difficult to sustain a high road attitude all the time. High roaders recognize their own need for grace, and extend it to others.
High roaders set higher standards for themselves than others would. They make excellence their goal. They care more than others think is wise. They risk more than others think is safe. They dream more than others think is practical. They expect more than others think is possible. And they work more than others think is necessary. 

Identify areas where people need patience with

you. It's a good idea for us to know what ours are.
The Celebration Principle
The true test of relationships is not only how loyal we are when friends fail, but how thrilled we are when they succeed. Everyone identifies with failure. The problem is that because people so readily identify with failure, they sometimes have a hard time connecting with success. And

The Synergy Question: Can We Create a Win-Win Relationship?
Some relationships add value to both parties, and that is rewarding. When both parties enter into a relationship with an investment mind-set -- after having connected and built trust with each other -- a win-win relationship can result.

if they don't identify with success, they may resent it.

The wonderful thing about win-win relationships is that

Frequently the very same qualities that prevent people from achieving success -- emotional insecurity, a scarcity mind-set, petty jealousy and the like -- prevent them from celebrating others' successes. They constantly compare themselves to others and find themselves wanting.
How do you learn to celebrate with others instead of ignoring or undermining them? Realize it's not a competition. You must be willing to look at things from other people's point of view. When they achieve something that is important to them, celebrate with enthusiasm. Celebrate successes others don't yet see. Sometimes people make great strides and aren't even aware of it.
The High Road Principle
We go to a higher level when we treat others better than they treat us. If you're slinging mud, you're losing ground. There are really only three roads we can travel when it comes to dealing with others. We can take the low road where we treat others worse than they treat us. We can take the middle road where we treat others the same as they treat us. Or we can take the high road and treat others better than they treat us.

they can be forged in every area of life and in all kinds of relationships: between husbands and wives, parents and children, friends and neighbors, and bosses and employees. If both parties sustain a giving attitude and both are having their needs met, then the relationship can become something truly special.
In the long run, lopsided relationships don't last. If one person is doing all the giving and the other is doing all the receiving, the giver will eventually become worn out. And ironically the taker will become dissatisfied because that person will feel he or she is not receiving enough. The only way to build a positive, long-lasting, synergistic relationship is to make sure everybody wins!
The Boomerang Principle
When we help others, we help ourselves. Those who invest in others give and then receive. They believe that success comes from being helpful, caring and constructive. They desire to make everything and everyone they touch better, and they understand the best way to accomplish that is to give of themselves. To enrich the world and become someone who invests in others, you must:

The low road damages relationships and alienates others from us. The middle road may not drive people away from

Think "others first." Good, healthy, growing relationships begin with the ability to put other people first. Begin
(continued on page 8)

Soundview Executive Book Summaries®

7

Winning With People -- SUMMARY

The Synergy Question: Can We Create a Win-Win Relationship?
(continued from page 7)
every relationship by giving the other person respect -- even before he or she has had a chance to earn it.
Focus on the investment, not the return. Investors in people are like investors in the stock market. In the long haul, they will benefit, but they have little control over what that return will look like or how it will occur. But they can control what and how they invest.
Pick out a few people with great potential. When people prepare to make financial investments, the wise ones don't put all their money into a single stock or fund. They diversify by investing in several areas. But good investors don't spread themselves too thin. They know they can give only so much time and attention to each particular investment. Wise investors in people follow a similar pattern. Pick only as many people as you can handle with intensity, choose only people with great potential for growth, and choose only people whose need for growth matches your gifts and talents.
With their permission, begin the process. You cannot help someone who does not want your help. The stronger the relationships and the greater the trust, the higher the likelihood that the investment process will work.
Enjoy a return in due season. When people's motives are pure and they genuinely desire to add value to others, they cannot help others without receiving some benefit. The return may be immediate, or it may take a long time, but it will occur. And when it does, the relationship begins to resonate with synergy.
The Friendship Principle
Most people underestimate the power and importance of relationships in regard to business and career. They try to learn the most recent management fad, focus on product quality, or create programs and systems to improve productivity or increase repeat business. These things are helpful, but the real key is relationships. Never underestimate the power of friendship when it comes to doing business.
As soon as you understand the way that relationships affect business, you begin to realize that all business relationships are not created equal. Here are the four levels of business relationships:
People Knowledge. Your understanding of people helps build your business. All the product knowledge in the world won't help someone without people skills. Nor will technical expertise. Nor will the ability to build a brilliantly efficient organization. If individuals don't possess people skills, they very quickly hit a ceiling in their effectiveness.
Service Skills. Barry J. Gibbons, author of This Indecision Is Final, writes, "Between 70 percent and 90 percent of decisions not to repeat a purchase of anything are

not about product or price. They are about some dimension of the service relationship." How you treat the people with whom you do business really matters, especially in a competitive market.
Business Reputation. Writer Howard Hodgson said, "Whatever business you are in, you are in a business of relationships. That's why your reputation is your greatest asset."
Personal Friendship. Your friendship with others builds your business. The highest level of business relationships is reached when people like your business, but more important, they like you!
The Partnership Principle
Working together increases the odds of winning together. Try to build relationships with everyone, but forge partnerships with only a few. Those closest to you determine your level of success. Move from simply working with good, capable people to partnering with difference makers. Find capable people with the same passion and mission as yours who also need others to make a difference. This will lead to many rewarding rela-

RECOMMENDED READING LIST
If you liked Winning With People, you'll also like:
1. The 8th Habit by Stephen R. Covey. Covey explains that the crucial challenge in life and work is to find our own voice and inspire others to find theirs.
2. Winners Never Cheat by Jon M. Huntsman. Huntsman describes how readers can learn to listen to their moral compass, build teams with high values, share success and take responsibility.
3. Bringing Out the Best in People by Aubrey C. Daniels. Daniels, a psychologist, shows what keeps people working at peak performance: positive reinforcement.
4. First Things First by Stephen R. Covey, A. Roger Merrill, and Rebecca R. Merrill. The authors show you how to stay focused on what really matters in life, live by your principles and find your mission.
5. Crucial Confrontations by Kerry Patterson, Joseph Grenny, Ron McMillan, and Al Switzler. The authors offer the skills it takes to resolve pressing problems.

tional partnerships and together you will do things that

make a positive impact by helping others.

Every person possesses one of two mind-sets: scarcity

or abundance. People with a scarcity mind-set believe

that there's only so much to go around so you have to

scrape for everything you can and protect whatever you

have at all costs. People with an abundance mind-set

believe there's always enough to go around.

The Satisfaction Principle

In great relationships, the joy of being together is enough. A lasting relationship begins as a healthy relationship. The following four factors help to create the right climate for relationships where simply being together is enough:
 Shared memories create a bonded environment.  Growing together creates a committed environment.  Mutual respect creates a healthy environment of
trust and servanthood.  Unconditional love creates a safe environment. 

8

Soundview Executive Book Summaries®

