J  31 
±X53 


THE  WORKS  OF 
ST.  JOHN  OF  THE  CROSS. 


NIHIL  OBSTAT 

Eduardus  Badger  O.C.D. 

Censor  Deputatus. 


IMPRIMI  POTEST 

Gulielmus  Praepositus  Johnson 

Vicarius  Generalis. 


Westmonasterii 


Die  22  Feb.  1906. 


ASCENT  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL 


Ae.  Y^.  Cv'-iA.i, 

ST.  JOHN  OF  THE  CROSS. 


TRANSLATED  BY 

DAVID  LEWIS 


WITH  CORRECTIONS  AND  A  PREFATORY  ESSAY  ON 

THE  DEVELOPMENT  OF  MYSTICISM 

IN  THE 

CARMELITE  ORDER 

BY 

BENEDICT  ZIMMERMANN,  O.C.D. 

Prior  of  St.  Luke’s,  Wincanton,  Somerset. 


LONDON: 
THOMAS  BAKER. 


MCMXXII 


First  Impression 

.  X906 

Second  Impression 

•  1914 

Third  Impression 

.  1918 

Fourth  Impression  . 

.  1922 

Printed  in  Great  Britain  by  Hazell,  Watson  &  Viney,  Ld., 
London  and  Aylesbury. 


CONTENTS 


isi. 


THE  ASCENT  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

PAY.* 


Argument . . 

Prologue  . . .  3 


BOOK  I. 

THE  NATURE  OF  THE  DARK  NIGHT,  THE  NECESSITY  OF  PASSING 
AND  SPECIALLY  THE  DARK  NIGHT  OF  SENSE  AND  DESIRE, 
THROUGH  IT  IN  ORDER  TO  ATTAIN  TO  THE  DIVINE  UNION  ; 
WITH  THE  EVILS  WHICH  THESE  INFLICT  UPON  THE  SOUL. 


CHAPTER  I. 

Two  kinds  of  this  night,  corresponding  with  the  division  of  the  soul  into 

higher  and  lower . .  .  9 

CHAPTER  II. 

The  nature  and  cause  of  the  dark  night  .  .  .  .  ,  .  .11 

CHAPTER  III. 

The  first  cause  of  this  night,  the  privation  of  the  desire  in  all  things  .  13 

CHAPTER  IV. 

The  necessity  of  passing  truly  through  the  dark  night  of  sense,  which  is 
the  mortification  of  the  desire,  in  order  to  enter  on  the  road  of  union 
with  God . 15 

CHAPTER  V. 

Continuation  of  the  same  subject.  Proofs  from  scripture  of  the  necessity 
of  drawing  near  unto  God  through  the  dark  night  of  mortified 
desires  ............  21 


CHAPTER  VI. 

Two  great  evils  ot  the  desires  :  negative  and  positive.  Proofs  from 
Scripture . 


b 


27 


IV. 


CONTENTS. 


CHAPTER  VII. 

PAGF 

The  desires  torment  the  soul.  Proofs  and  illustrations  . 

CHAPTER  VIII. 

• 

• 

•  V 

The  desires  darken  the  soul.  Proofs  and  illustrations  . 

CHAPTER  IX. 

• 

• 

•  34 

The  desires  pollute  the  soul.  Proofs  from  Scripture 

CHAPTER  X. 

• 

• 

00 

The  desires  make  the  soul  lukewarm,  and  enfeeble  virtue.  Proofs  and 

illustrations  ...........  43 

CHAPTER  XI. 


illustrations  ...........  43 

CHAPTER  XI. 

The  necessity  of  freedom  from  all  desires,  however  slight,  for  the  divine 

union  . . .  .  45 

CHAPTER  XII. 

The  nature  of  those  desires  which  suffice  to  injure  the  soul  .  .  .51 


CHAPTER  XIII. 

How  the  soul  enters  by  faith  into  the  night  of  sense  .  .  ,  .  55 

CHAPTER  XIV. 

Explanation  of  the  second  line  of  the  stanza . .60 

CHAPTER  XV. 

Explanation  of  the  last  lines . .  .61 


BOOK  II. 

Proximate  means  of  union,  faith,  the  second  night 

OF  THE  SPIRIT. 


CHAPTER  I. 

The  second  stanza  .......  o  ...  63 

CHAPTER  II. 

The  second  part,  or  cause,  of  this  night — faith.  Two  reasons  why  it  is 

darker  than  the  first  and  third . 66 

CPIAPTER  III. 

Faith,  the  dark  night  of  the  soul.  Proofs  from  reason  and  the  Holy 
Scriptures . .  ....  67 


CONTENTS. 


V 


vauv. 

CHAPTER  IV. 

How  the  soul  must  be  in  darkness,  in  order  to  be  duly  guided  by  faith 
to  the  highest  contemplation . 71 

CHAPTER  V. 

The  union  of  the  soul  with  God.  A  comparison . 76 

CHAPTER  VI. 

The  three  theological  virtues  perfect  the  powers  of  the  soul,  and  bring 
them  into  a  state  of  emptiness  and  darkness.  Proofs  from  S.  Luke 
and  Isaias  ...........  82 


CHAPTER  VII. 

The  straitness  of  the  way  of  life.  The  detachment  and  freedom 
necessary  for  those  who  walk  in  it.  The  detachment  of  the  under¬ 
standing  . 86 

CHAPTER  VIII. 

No  creature,  no  knowledge,  comprehensible  by  the  understanding,  can 

subserve  as  proximate  means  of  union  with  God  .  .  .  -93 

CHAPTER  IX. 

Faith  is  the  proximate  and  proportionate  means  of  the  understanding  by 
which  the  soul  may  attain  to  the  divine  union  of  love.  Proofs  from 
the  Holy  Scriptures  .........  99 


CHAPTER  X. 

The  divisions  of  the  apprehensions  and  acts  of  the  understanding  .  .  103 

CHAPTER  XI. 

Of  the  hurt  and  hindrance  resulting  from  the  apprehensions  of  the  under¬ 
standing  supernaturally  produced  through  the  instrumentality  of  the 
outward  senses.  How  the  soul  is  to  be  guided  under  such  circum¬ 
stances  ............  103 


CHAPTER  XII. 

Of  natural  and  imaginary  apprehensions.  Their  nature.  They  cannot 
be  proportionate  means  of  union.  The  evil  results  of  not  knowing 
how  to  detach  oneself  from  them  in  time  .....  1151 

CHAPTER  XIII. 

The  signs  to  be  observed  by  the  spiritual  man  that  he  may  know  when 
to  withdraw  the  understanding  from  imaginary  forms  and  discursive 
meditations  . . 

CHAPTER  XIV. 

The  fitness  of  these  signs.  The  necessity  of  observing  them  for 

spiritual  progress  .  .  .  .  .  •  •  •  •  .121 


71. 


CONTENTS. 


PAGE 

CHAPTER  XV. 

Of  the  occasional  necessity  of  meditating,  and  exe/'ji»g  the  natural 
faculties  on  the  part  of  those  who  begin  to  enter  on  the  contempla¬ 
tive  state . . J31 


CHAPTER  XVI. 

Of  imaginary  apprehensions  supernaturally  represented  to  the  fancy. 

They  cannot  be  proximate  means  of  union  with  God  .  .  .  134 

CHAPTER  XVII. 

Of  the  ends  and  ways  of  God  in  communicating  spiritual  blessings  to  the 

soul  through  the  senses.  Answer  to  the  question  proposed  .  .  143 

CHAPTER  XVIII. 

How  souls  ».ti!  injured  because  their  spiritual  directors  do  not  guide  them 
aright  through  these  visions.  How  these  visions,  though  from  God, 
become  occasions  of  error  ........  1^0 

CHAPTER  XIX. 

Visions,  revelations,  and  locutions,  though  true  and  from  God,  may 

deceive.  Proofs  from  Holy  Scripture  .  .  .  .  .  .156 

CHAPTER  XX. 

Proofs  from  Scripture  that  the  divine  locutions,  though  always  true,  are 

not  always  certain  in  their  causes  .  .  .  .  .  .166 

CHAPTER  XXI. 

God  is  at  times  displeased  with  certain  prayers,  though  He  answers  them. 

Illustrations  of  His  anger  with  such  prayers . 172 

CHAPTER  XXII. 

It  is  not  lawful,  under  the  new  law,  as  it  was  under  the  old,  to  enquire  of 
God  by  supernatural  ways.  This  doctrine  profitable  for  the  under¬ 
standing  of  the  mysteries  of  our  holy  faith.  Proofs  from  S.  Paul  .  182 

CHAPTER  XXIII. 

Of  the  purely  spiritual  apprehensions  of  the  understanding  .  .  .  193 

CHAPTER  XXIV. 

Of  the  two  kinds  of  spiritual  visions  which  come  by  the  supernatural 

way . 198 

CHAPTER  XXV. 

Of  revelations  :  their  nature  and  division . . 

CHAPTER  XXVI. 

Tte  knowledge  of  pure  truths.  Two  kinds  thereof.  The  conduct  of 
the  soul  therein . .  . 


CONTENTS. 


vii. 

tai;e 

CHAPTER  XXVII. 

Of  the  second  kind  of  revelations,  the  disclosure  of  secrets  and  hidden 
mysteries.  How  they  may  subserve  and  hinder  the  divine  union. 

Of  the  many  delusions  of  the  devil  incident  to  them  ....  216 

CHAPTER  XXVIII. 

u. 

Of  the  interior  locations  which  occur  supernaturally.  Their  different 
kinds  ............  220 


CHAPTER  XXIX. 

Of  the  first  kind  of  words  formed  by  the  mind  self-recollected.  The 

causes  of  them.  The  advantages  and  disadvantages  of  them  .  .  221 

CHAPTER  XXX. 

Of  interior  words  formally  wrought  in  a  supernatural  way.  Of  the  dangers 

incident  thereto  ;  and  a  necessary  caution  against  delusions  .  .  229 

CHAPTER  XXXI. 

Of  the  interior  substantial  locutions  :  the  difference  between  them  and 
the  formal.  The  profitableness  of  them.  The  resignation  and 
reverence  of  the  soul  in  respect  of  them . 233 

CHAPTER  XXXII. 

Of  intellectual  apprehensions  resulting  from  the  interior  impressions 
supernaturally  effected.  The  sources  *of  them.  The  conduct  to  be 
observed  by  the  soul  so  that  these  apprehensions  shall  not  hinder 
it  on  the  way  of  union  .  .  . . 235 


BOOK  III. 

THE  PURGATION  AND  ACTIVE  NIGHT  OF  THE  MEMORY 
AND  THE  WILL. 


CHAPTER  I. 

Of  the  natural  apprehensions  of  the  memory  :  which  is  to  be  emptied  of 

them,  that  the  soul,  according  to  that  faculty,  may  be  united  with  God.  241 

CHAPTER  II. 

Three  kinds  of  evils  to  which  the  soul  is  liable  when  not  in  darkness  ; 
with  respect  to  the  knowledge  and  reflections  of  the  memory.  Ex¬ 
planation  of  the  first  .........  250 

CHAPTER  III. 

Of  the  second  evil,  coming  from  the  evil  spirit  through  the  natural  ap¬ 
prehensions  of  the  memory  ....  ...  253 


VIII. 


CONTENTS. 


PAC’k 

CHAPTER  IV. 

Of  the  third  evil,  proceeding  from  the  distinct  natural  knowledge  of  the 

memory  ....  255 

CHAPTER  V. 

The  profitableness  of  forgetfulness  and  emptiness,  with  regard  to  all 

thoughts  and  knowledge,  which  naturally  occur  to  the  memory  .  256 

CHAPTER  VI. 

Of  the  second  kind  of  apprehensions  :  the  imaginary  and  supernatural  .  259 

CHAPTER  VII. 

The  evils  inflicted  on  the  soul  by  the  knowledge  of  supernatural  things 

if  reflected  upon.  Their  number . 260 

v  CPIAPTER  VIII. 

Of  the  second  evil  :  the  danger  of  self-conceit  and  presumption  »  .  263 

CPIAPTER  IX. 

Of  the  third  evil  :  the  work  of  the  devil  through  the  imaginary  appre¬ 
hensions  of  the  memory  . . 263 


CHAPTER  X. 

Of  the  fourth  evil  of  the  distinct  supernatural  apprehensions  of  the 
memory  :  the  impediment  to  union  .......  267 

CHAPTER  XI. 

Of  the  fifth  evil,  resulting  from  the  imaginary  supernatural  apprehen¬ 
sions  :  low  and  unseemly  views  of  God  ......  267 

CHAPTER  XII. 

The  benefits  of  withdrawing  the  soul  from  the  apprehensions  of  the 
imagination.  Answer  to  an  objection.  The  difference  between  the 
natural  and  supernatural  imaginary  apprehensions  ....  270 

CHAPTER  XIII. 

Of  spiritual  knowledge  as  it  relates  to  the  memory  ....  277 

CHAPTER  XIV. 

General  directions  for  the  guidance  of  the  spiritual  man  in  relation  to 

the  memory  ...........  278 

CHAPTER  XV. 

Of  the  obscure  night  of  the  will.  Proofs  from  Deuteronomy  and  the 

Psalms.  Division  of  the  affections  of  the  will .  .  .  .  .281 

CHAPTER  XVI. 

Of  the  first  affection  of  the  will.  What  joy  is.  Its  divers  sources  .  2S4 


CONTliNTS. 


IX. 


PAGR 

CHAPTER  XVII. 

Of  joy  in  temporal  goods.  How  it  is  to  be  directed  •  »  >  •  2S6 

CHAPTER  XVIII. 

Of  the  evils  resulting  from  joy  in  temporal  goods  •  <  «  •  .  290 

CHAPTER  XIX. 

The  benefits  resulting  from  withdrawing  our  joy  from  temporal  things  .  297 

CHAPTER  XX. 

The  joy  of  the  will  in  natural  goods  is  vanity.  How  to  direct  the  will  to 

God  therein . . 

CHAPTER  XXI. 

The  evils  of  the  will’s  rejoicing  in  natural  goods  .  •  •  302 

CHAPTER  XXII. 

The  benefits  of  not  rejoicing  in  natural  goods  ■  3°7 

CHAPTER  XXIII. 

Of  the  third  kind,  sensible  goods.  Their  nature  and  varieties.  The 

regulation  of  the  will  with  respect  to  them . 3x0 

CHAPTER  XXIV. 

The  evils  which  befall  the  soul  when  the  will  has  joy  in  sensible  goods  .313 

CHAPTER  XXV. 

The  spiritual  and  temporal  benefits  of  self-denial  in  the  joy  in  sensible 

things . 3i6 

CHAPTER  XXVI. 

The  fourth  kind  of  goods  :  moral  goods.  How  the  will  may  lawfully 

rejoice  in  them . 320 

CHAPTER  XXVII. 

Seven  evils  to  which  men  are  liable  if  the  will  rejoices  in  moral  goods  .  324 

CHAPTER  XXVIII. 

The  benefits  of  repressing  all  joy  in  moral  goods . 329 

CHAPTER  XXIX. 

The  fifth  kind  of  goods,  in  which  the  will  has  joy  :  the  supernatural. 

Their  nature,  and  the  difference  between  them  and  spiritual  goods. 

How  joy  in  them  is  to  be  directed  unto  God . 33 1 

CHAPTER  XXX. 

The  evils  resulting  from  the  will’s  rejoicing  in  this  kind  of  goods  .  .  334 

CHAPTER  XXXI. 

The  benefits  of  self-denial  in  the  joy  of  supernatural  graces  ,  .  .340 


X. 


CONTENTS. 


PAGE 

CHAPTER  XXXII. 

The  sixth  kind  of  goods  in  which  the  will  rejoices.  Their  nature.  The 

first  division  of  them  . . -  342 

CHAPTER  XXXIII. 

Of  the  spiritual  goods  distinctly  cognisable  by  the  understanding  and  the 
memory.  The  conduct  of  the  will  with  respect  to  joy  in  them  .  .  343 

CHAPTER  XXXIV. 

Of  the  sweet  spiritual  goods  which  distinctly  affect  the  will.  Their 

diversities . 344 

CHAPTER  XXXV. 

The  subject  continued.  The  ignorance  of  some  people  in  the  matter  of 

images . 349 

CHAPTER  XXXVI. 

How  the  joy  of  the  will  in  sacred  images  is  to  be  referred  to  God,  so  that 

there  shall  be  no  hindrance  in  it,  or  occasions  of  error  .  .  .  352 

CHAPTER  XXXVII. 

Motive  goods  continued.  Oratories  and  places  of  prayer  ,  ,  .  354 

CHAPTER  XXXVIII. 

The  right  use  of  churches  and  oratories.  How  the  soul  is  to  be  directed 

through  them  unto  God . 35 2 

CHAPTER  XXXIX. 

Continuation  of  the  same  subject . *  ,  ,  36c 

CHAPTER  XL. 

Of  some  evils  to  which  men  are  liable  who  indulge  in  the  sensible  sweet¬ 


ness  which  results  from  objects  and  places  of  devotion  .  .  .  361 

CHAPTER  XLI. 

Of  the  three  kinds  of  devotional  places.  How  the  will  is  to  regulate 

itself  in  the  matter . 363 

CHAPTER  XLII. 


Of  other  motives  to  prayer  adopted  by  many  ;  namely,  many  ceremonies  .  366 

CHAPTER  XLI  1 1. 

IIow  the  joy  and  strength  of  the  will  is  to  be  directed  in  these  devotions  36S 

CHAPTER  XLIV. 

Of  the  second  kind  of  distinct  goods  in  which  the  will  vainly  rejoices  .  372 


Index  of  places  in  Holy  Ssripture  .......  377 

Index  of  matter  385 


THE 


DEVELOPMENT  OF  MYSTICISM 


IN  THE 

CARMELITE  ORDER. 


I  The  Carmelite  Order  originally  contemplative. — II.  Becomes 
active  under  S.  Simon  Stock. — III.  Reaction  after  his  death. — 
IV.  Carmelite  mystics. — V.  Friar  William  Sothfeld. — 
VI.  Reforms. —VII.  S.  Teresa.— VIII.  Her  Reform.— 
IX.  S.  John  of  the  Cross. — X.  Opposition.— XI.  Imprison¬ 
ment. — XII.  His  works. — XIII.  Their  relation  to  those  of 
S.  Teresa. — XIV.  Could  S.  John  have  known  S.  Teresa’s 
works? — XV.  Allusions  and  quotations.- — XVI.  The  ‘Ascent 
of  Mount  Carmel’.  —  XVII.  S.  John  of  the  Cross  and 
Spiritualism.  —  XVIII.  Is  S.  John’s  system  practical?  — 
XIX.  Answer. — XX.  Carmelite  mystics  of  the  17th  century.— 
XXI.  Translations  and  editions  of  the  ‘Ascent’. 

I.  The  Carmelite  Order  was  originally  devoted  to  a 
purely  contemplative  life.  Its  members  lived  as  hermits 
on  Mount  Carmel,  striving  to  imitate  the  holy  prophets 
Elias  and  Eliseus.  According  to  their  Rule — which,  given 
about  a.d.  1210,  records  the  customs  observed  by  these 
hermits  since  they  became  a  body  corporate — they  spent 
their  time  in  or  near  their  cells,  meditating  on  the  law  of 
the  Lord  day  and  night,  repairing  only  once  a  day  to  the 
oratory  to  hear  mass.  They  said  their  office  or  their 
Paters  privately,  and  took  their  more  than  frugal  meals 
in  solitude.  James  de  Vitry  thus  speaks  of  these  hermits : 

‘  Others,  following  the  example  of  Elias,  that  holy  ancho¬ 
rite  and  great  prophet,  embraced  the  eremitical  life  on 
Mount  Carmel,  chiefly  on  the  part  overlooking  the  town 
of  Porphyry,  now  called  Caiffa,  near  the  fountain  of  Elias, 


2  THE  DEVELOPMENT  OF  MYSTICISM 

not  far  from  the  monastery  of  S.  Margaret,  Virgin. 
There  living  in  small  cells,  like  bee-hives,  they  made  a 
sweet  spiritual  honey  (1) 

This  peaceful  life  was  rudely  interrupted  by  the  inroads 
of  the  Saracens.  For  a  time  they  did  not  interfere  much 
with  the  harmless  hermits,  probably  through  respect  for 
S.  Elias,  whom  they  held  in  veneration  and  awe.  But 
the  moment  came  when  it  was  no  longer  safe  to  live, 
unprotected,  in  the  Holy  Land,  and  small  bands  of 
hermits  took  ship  and  migrated  westward. 

Some  found  a  home  in  Cyprus,  and  built  a  convent  in 
a  desert  place,  called  Fortani.  Others  proceeded  as  far 
as  Sicily,  settling  not  far  from  Messina.  Others  again 
reached  the  mainland  and  chose  a  place  called  Aygalades, 
some  miles  from  Marseilles  ;  a  fourth  colony  ventured  as 
far  as  Valenciennes  where  they  were  given  some  territory. 
This  first  migration  took  place  in  A.D.  1238.  Three  years 
later  a  second  colony  left  the  holy  mountain,  bound  for 
England.  They  arrived  towards  Christmas  and  with 
the  consent  of  the  king  established  not  less  than  four 
foundations  :  near  Bradmer  on  the  coast  of  Norfolk ;  near 
Newenden  on  the  Kentish  coast ;  in  the  forest  of  Hulne, 
three  miles  from  Alnwick ;  and  a  mile  or  so  outside  the 
village  of  Aylesford  on  the  river  Medway.  The  ruins  of 
Hulne  are  in  good  preservation,  while  Aylesford  is  almost 
intact.  Part  of  the  building  is  of  a  more  recent  date,  but 
a  considerable  portion  of  the  original  convent  is  still 
extant.  Here,  too,  every  hermit  had  a  small  house  of  his 
own,  though  they  were  all  under  the  same  roof.  The 
doors  opened  on  a  quadrangle,  the  chapel  occupied  in 
all  probability  the  same  place  where  in  a.d.  1355  the 
present  dwelling-house  was  erected.  No  arrangement 
seems  to  have  been  made  for  a  common  refectory,  the 

(x)  Hist.  Or.  c.  52. 


IN  THE  CARMELITE  ORDER. 


3 


old  rule  of  solitary  meals  still  obtaining.  For  the  Car¬ 
melites  continued  to  be  hermits  and  were  thus  styled  in 
pontifical  bulls  ranging  from  1226  to  1247. 

II.  In  the  last-named  year  was  held  the  first  General 
chapter,  what  might  be  termed  the  Constituent  assembly, 
under  the  presidency  of  S.  Simon  Stock.  Little  as  is 
known  of  him  one  thing  is  certain :  he  was  intensely 
practical.  Among  other  things  he  obtained  permission 
from  the  Holy  See  to  make  foundations  not  only  in  desert 
places  but  in  villages  and  towns,  and  thus  abandoned  the 
strictly  eremitical  life.  From  this  time  the  Carmelites 
were  numbered  among  the  Mendicants — having  previously 
been  forbidden  the  acquisition  of  landed  property — and 
entered  upon  the  active  life.  Not  that  they  renounced 
Contemplation  altogether,  for  ever)'  form  of  religious  life 
tends  that  way,  but  it  no  longer  occupied  the  most  pro¬ 
minent  place  in  their  lives.  Foundations  were  made  in 
university  towns,  Cambridge  (1249),  Oxford  (1253),  Paris 
(1259),  Bologne  (1260)  ;  in  large  centres  like  London 
(1251),  York  (1255),  Cologne  (1256),  &c.;  the  Divine  office 
was  sung  in  choir,  the  meals  were  partaken  of  in  common, 
and  various  mitigations  brought  the  Rule  within  the 
requirements  of  Western  countries  and  less  fortunate 
climates  than  that  of  the  Holy  Land.  In  university 
towns  the  friars  pursued  chiefly  scholastic  work,  elsewhere 
they  devoted  themselves  to  the  exercise  of  the  sacred 
ministry  as  far  as  they  obtained  the  licence  from  the 
bishops. 

III.  A  reaction  set  in  after  the  death  of  S.  Simon  Stock 
(1265).  His  successor,  Nicholas  Gallicus,  was  undoubtedly 
one  of  those  who  had  received  their  religious  training  on 
Mount  Carmel,  and  who  were  by  no  means  in  favour  of 
active  work.  He  resigned  his  office  of  General  in  a.b.  1270, 
and  withdrew  to  a  hermitage  on  ‘  Mount  Erratroff,’ 


i  THE  DEVELOPMENT  OF  MYSTICISM 

the  situation  of  which  is  not  known  with  precision ;  it 
appears  to  have  been  somewhere  in  the  South  of  France. 
From  that  place  he  wrote  a  circular  letter,  entitled  Ignca 
sagitta,  in  which  he  sharply  inveighed  against  the  aban¬ 
donment  of  the  contemplative  in  favour  of  the.  active  life. 
He  died  at  Orange  in  the  odour  of  sanctity  ;  his  feast  was 
for  a  time  observed  in  some  provinces  of  the  Order  on  the 
2nd  of  April. 

Nicholas  had  for  a  successor  in  the  generalship  Radulph 
Alemannicus,  also  one  of  the  old  hermits  of  Mount 
Carmel.  He,  too,  resigned  after  a  short  time  and  retired 
to  Hulne  to  prepare  himself  by  contemplation  for  death, 
which  occurred  on  18  December,  1277.  Meanwhile  the 
Order,  having  been  formally  acknowledged  by  the  second 
council  of  .Lyons  (a.d.  1274),  developed  rapidly  and  in¬ 
creased  its  sphere  of  ministerial  work. 

IV.  As  already  stated,  every  form  of  religious  life  con¬ 
tains  the  contemplative  element.  It  is  therefore  not 
surprising  that  we  find  evidence  of  it  at  almost  every  turn. 
Some  of  the  convents  were  so  situated  that  there  was 
hardly  room  for  the  exercise  of  the  sacred  ministry,  e.g., 
Hulne  in  Northumberland.  It  is  nevertheless  true  that 
the  Carmelites  never  founded  a  school  of  Mysticism,  as 
did,  e.g.,  the  Dominicans.  All  those  who  lectured  on 
Divinity — their  number  was  very  large — were  bound  to 
deal  with  most  of  the  questions  concerning  mystical 
theology,  for  in  the  middle  ages  theology  was  more  ency¬ 
clopedic  than  it  is  now.  We  also  find  a  number  of  Car¬ 
melites  who  composed  works  on  this  subject.  To  mention 
only  a  few,  and  these  at  random,  Arnestus  de  Saxonia, 
who  took  his  degree  at  Paris  in  the  beginning  of  the  four¬ 
teenth  century,  was  so  much  given  to  the  contemplative 
life  that  he  spent  all  his  spare  time  in  prayer  and  medi¬ 
tation.  Johannes  de  Marchinellis,  of  Liege  ( ca .  1410),  is 


IN  THE  CARMELITE  ORDER. 


o 


known  to  have  written  a  work  ‘  On  the  spiritual  combat 
Nicholas  Dinckelspoele  ( ca .  1420)  wrote  on  the  Gifts  of 
the  Holy  Ghost,  the  Lord’s  prayer,  and  similar  subjects : 
Johannes  Sonneman,  of  Cassel  (ca.  1460),  composed  a 
work  *  On  the  preparation  of  the  heart  ‘  Blessed  ’ 
Albertus  de  Monte  Calerio  (-f-  1515)  founded  a  convent 
in  the  mountains  of  Lombardy,  where  he  gave  himself  to 
prayer  and  fasting  and  wrought  many  miracles. 

V.  This  list  could  be  continued  indefinitely,  but  the 
reader  will  probably  prefer  to  learn  some  particulars  about 
a  saintly  English  Carmelite.  “At  that  time,”  writes  Bale  f1) 
“there  lived  in  the  convent  at  Norwich  a  man  dear  to  God 
and  renowned  for  sanctity,  William  Sothfeld,  born  some¬ 
where  in  Norfolk.  He  had  been  received  in  the  Carmelite 
convent  in  his  tender  youth,  and  having  become  priest  in 
due  course,  dedicated  his  whole  life  to  meditating  on  the 
law  of  the  Lord  and  carrying  out  the  sacred  rites.  He* 
was  a  simple-minded  man,  endowed  with  ineffable  devo¬ 
tion  ;  for  he  surpassed  even  those  who  had  a  reputation  of 
piety ;  he  omitted  nothing  that  could  improve  his  manner 
of  life,  so  that,  both  before  and  after  death,  he  wrought 
many  miracles.  This  venerable  man  was  of  cheerful 
countenance,  pleasant  demeanour,  sweet  and  polite  speech, 
however  common  his  garments  were.  He  put  his  whole 
trust  in  God,  was  full  of  holy  desires  for  the  welfare  of  the 
Order,  and  had  a  tender  devotion  towards  the  Blessed 
Virgin.  It  is  asserted  that  he  said  the  Hail  Mary  a 
thousand  times  a  day ;  not  content  with  this  he  seemed 
to  have  this  prayer  ever  on  his  lips  and  never  to  grow 
satiated  with  it.  Keeping  a  strict  fast,  given  wholly  to 
prayer,  most  punctual  in  the  performance  of  his  duties,  of 
solid  virtue,  he  had  many  a  wonderful  vision.  Frequently 
the  Mother  of  God  spoke  to  him  and  showed  him  so  much 

f1)  MS.  Harley,  3838,  Fol.  34b. 


6  THE  DEVELOPMENT  OF  MYSTICISM 

familiarity  that  the  brothers,  peeping  through  the  chinks 
of  his  door,  saw  and  heard  them  sometimes  saying  the 
Hours  together.  He  well  knew  how  to  practise  humility 
of  heart  and  bodily  austerities.  The  story  goes  that  he 
extinguished  a  fire  threatening  to  consume  the  convent  by 
waving  his  scapular.  Besides  this  he  did  many  wonder¬ 
ful  signs  too  long  for  enumeration.  This  holy  man  died 
at  Norwich  on  26th  August,  1414,  and  was  buried  by 
common  consent  in  a  distinguished  place,  the  tomb  being 
covered  by  a  beautiful  marble  slab.  The  body  is  said  to 
have  remained  long  incorrupt.” 

VI.  Early  in  the  fifteenth  century,  when  the  schism 
which  had  divided  the  Carmelite  Order  as  well  as  the 
Church,  was  happily  ended,  the  Rule  was  mitigated  by 
Papal  authority.  It  was  found  more  correct  to  have  an 
easier  rule  well  kept  than  an  austere  one  which  scarcely 
'  anybody  could  observe.  There  were,  however,  some  who 
preferred  the  old  rule  and  even  wished  to  add  to  its  rigour. 
Notwithstanding  much  opposition  on  the  part  of  the 
heads  of  the  Order,  they  succeeded  in  establishing  a 
Reform  which  soon  became  known  as  the  Congregation 
of  Mantua,  from  the  convent  which  formed  the  centre  of 
the  movement.  To  check  this  and  similar  separatist 
tendencies  the  General,  Blessed  John  Soreth  (a.d.  1451- 
1471)  laboured  strenuously  for  the  reform  of  the  Order. 
He  not  only  strove  to  extirpate  every  kind  of  abuse  and 
to  revive  the  zeal  of  the  friars,  but  selected  some  houses 
in  each  province  where  the  entire  rigour  of  the  Rule 
should  be  observed  and  the  religious  life  be  fashioned  on 
the  strictest  lines.  Thus,  without  causing  further  divisions, 
and  without  laying  undue  burdens  on  those  who  were 
either  unwilling  or  unable  to  bear  them,  provision  was 
made  for  those  who  were  anxious  to  resume  the  contem¬ 
plative  life.  Soreth  also  incorporated  in  the  Order  a 


IN  THE  CARMELITE  ORDER.  7 

community  of  Beguines,  and  thus  became  the  founder  of 
the  Carmelite  nuns. 

After  his  death  (x)  the  Reform  of  Mantua  grew  very 
strong  and  was  introduced  into  France  where  it  became 
known  as  the  congregation  of  Albi.  Among  its  chief 
promoters  were  two  Scotchmen,  William  MacGregor 
and  William  Wyle.  Further  Reforms  were  attempted  in 
the  provinces  of  Genoa  and  Portugal.  Though  in  man}' 
respects  differing  from  each  other,  all  these  offshoots  of 
the  Carmelite  Order  agreed  in  this  that  they  limited  as 
far  as  possible  the  external  activity  of  the  friars  and 
accentuated  the  interior  life.  Thus  the  gulf  between  the 
‘  active  ’  and  the  ‘  contemplative  ’  fractions  of  the  Order 
became  wider  and  wider. 

We  have  already  mentioned  that  although  the  Carmel¬ 
ites  could  muster  a  large  number  of  writers  on  Mystical 
theology,  they  had  produced  so  far  no  epoch-making 
author  to  be  compared  with,  say,  the  Cistercian  Bernard 
de  Clairvaux,  the  Franciscan  Bonaventure,  the  Dominican 
Henry  Suso,  or  with  Thomas  a  Kempis.  They  were 
destined,  in  the  sixteenth  century,  to  give  to  the  Church 
two  Saints  who — if  it  is  lawful  to  compare  saints  with 
saints — equalled,  if  they  did  not  surpass,  any  of  those  just 
named  :  Teresa  of  Jesus  and  John  of  the  Cross. 

VII.  Spain,  having  just  shaken  off  the  Moorish  yoke, 
was  in  the  full  enjoyment  of  youthful  vigour,  mental  as 
well  as  physical.  Here  Teresa  of  Jesus  was  born  in 
1515  and  took  her  vows  in  the  convent  of  Avila  in  1536(2). 
Having  resumed  with  redoubled  zeal  the  exercise  of 
mental  prayer  after  a  period  of  lukewarmness  occasioned 

(1)  It  has  been  asserted  over  and  over  again,  on  the  strength  of  a  mis¬ 
understood  passage  of  his  biographer,  that  Soreth  was  poisoned  by  some 
discontented  friars.  The  calumny  is  without  the  slightest  foundation  and 
can  easily  be  disproved. 

(2)  For  this  date  see  Life  of  S.  Teresa,  translated  by  David  Lewis. 
London,  Thomas  Baker,  1904.  P.  xiii. 


8 


THE  DEVELOPMENT  OF  MYSTICISM 


by  serious  illness,  Saint  Teresa  soon  began  to  experience 
stra-nge  effects  of  her  renewed  inward  life.  She  fell,  unfor* 
tunately,  into  the  hands  of  certain  amateur  directors  with 
little  knowledge  and  no  discernment  of  spirits,  who 
thoroughly  frightened  her  and  made  her  believe,  against 
her  own  sound  judgement,  that  she  was  deluded  by  evil 
spirits.  With  such  a  record  against  her  even  her  con¬ 
fessors,  mostly  Jesuits  and  Dominicans,  found  it  hard  to 
convince  themselves,  Teresa  and  the  busy-bodies  of  Avila, 
that  on  the  contrary  she  was  being  led  by  the  Spirit  of 
God  in  the  highest  paths  of  perfection.  She  has  told  the 
story  of  her  sufferings  and  of  the  mercies  of  God  in  her 
admirable  Life,  as  well  as  in  the  Way  of  Perfection,  and  the 
Interior  Castle.  In  fact  all  her  writings,  even  her  poems 
and  many  of  her  letters,  deal  with  this  subject.  In  her 
perplexities  she  held  firm  to  some  leading  principles : 
namely  that  so  long  as  she  did  not  wilfully  swerve  from 
the  teaching  of  the  Church,  she  could  not  be  misled  by 
the  devil.  So  long  as  she  was  perfectly  frank  with  her 
confessors,  making  known  to  them  all  her  experiences, 
God  was  bound  to  give  them  at  least  the  light  to  guide 
her.  That  she  was  bidden  to  render  strict  obedience  to 
the  living  voice  of  the  Church,  her  superiors  and  directors, 
rather  than  to  what  she  might  think  was  the  voice  of  God 
Himself,  but  which,  even  if  it  came  to  her  in  prayer, 
might  after  all  be  nothing  but  an  illusion  or  a  deception. 
And  finally  that  in  the  present  life  we  must  walk  in  Faith, 
while  clear  knowledge  is  reserved  for  the  next. 

With  these  guiding  axioms  she  was  able  to  steer  safely 
between  the  cliffs  and  shoals  which  imperilled  her  journey. 
Partly  for  her  own  satisfaction,  partly  for  the  benefit  of 
others,  she  subjected  the  workings  of  her  soul  to  a  most 
searching  analysis,  and  as  she  was  not  learned,  either  in 
divinity  or  in  philosophical  matters,  she  never  failed  to 


IN  THE  CARMELITE  ORDER. 


9 


apply  to  the  most  renowned  theologians  for  enlighten¬ 
ment. 

VIII.  One  of  the  results  of  her  great  fervour  was  the 
foundation  of  a  small  convent  where  she,  together  with 
some  kindred  souls,  might  serve  God  in  strict  enclosure 
and  the  observance  of  the  ancient  Rule  of  Carmel  as 
approved  by  Pope  Innocent  IV.  In  other  terms,  she  once 
more  set  aside  the  active  life  to  throw  herself  entirely  into 
a  life  of  pure  contemplation.  The  General,  on  the 
occasion  of  a  canonical  visit,  not  only  approved  of  what 
she  had  done,  but  gave  her  leave  to  found  also  two  convents 
of  Reformed  friars  ;  for  S.  Teresa  felt  rightly  that  so  long 
as  there  were  no  houses  of  Discalced  friars — Discalced 
friar  was  in  the  sixteenth  century  equivalent  to  Reformed 
friar — no  stability,  no  firm  guidance  could  be  expected  for 
the  Reformed  nuns. 

At  this  juncture  she  first  met  S.  John  of  the  Cross. 

IX.  John  de  Yepes  was  born  of  poor  parents  at  Honti- 
veros  in  Old  Castille  ,on  24th  June,  1542  (1).  At  the  age 
of  twenty-one  he  entered  the  Carmelite  Order,  and  from 
the  beginning  chose  for  himself  the  highest  line  of  per¬ 
fection,  discarding  mitigations,  and  keeping  the  Rule  in 
its  entirety.  After  profession  he  completed  his  studies  at 
Salamanca  and  was  ordained  priest  in  1567.  But,  shrink¬ 
ing  from  the  responsibilities  of  the  priesthood,  he  resolved 
to  pass  over  to  the  Carthusian  Order — a  step  open  to 
almost  any  Religious,  and  frequently  taken — when  he  was 
introduced  to  S.  Teresa.  Armed  as  she  was  with  authority 
from  the  General  to  establish  two  houses  of  reformed 
friars,  she  was  most  anxious  to  find  someone  to  make  ^ 
beginning.  She  at  once  felt  that  Fray  Juan  de  San  Matia, 
as  S.  John  was  then  called,  was  the  instrument  chosen  by 

(!)  See  the  excellent  Life  of  S.  John  of  the  Cross,  by  David  Lewis. 
London,  Thomas  Baker,  1888.  c 


10 


THE  DEVELOPMENT  OF  MYSTICISM 


God  for  such  an  undertaking.  Two  other  friars  having 
declared  their  willingness  to  join  him,  and  a  house,  or 
rather  a  hovel,  having  been  offered,  the  foundation  of 
the  Discalced  Carmelite  friars  became  an  accomplished 
fact  within  a  year  of  the  first  meeting  of  S.  Teresa  with 
S.  John.  She  was  not  long  in  visiting  the  cradle  of  the 
new  Order,  and  found  that  in  poverty,  austerity  and  fervour 
it  surpassed  anything  she  had  ever  witnessed.  With  a 
view  to  rendering  S.  John  acquainted  with  the  customs 
and  observances  of  the  nuns,  S.  Teresa  took  him  to 
Valladolid,  where  she  was  founding  a  convent. 

X.  The  Reform  of  the  friars  spread  rapidly,  in  fact  too 
much  so,  to  work  smoothly.  The  general  chapters  had 
done  everything  to  encourage  the  reform  of  existing 
houses  and  the  foundation  of  new  ones  with  strict 
observance,  and  to  facilitate  the  passage  of  friars  from  the 
unreformed  to  the  reformed  convents.  On  the  other  hand 
the  Superiors  naturally  resented  the  loss,  not  of  the  use* 
less  and  troublesome,  but  of  the  most  useful  and  fervent 
subjects.  Moreover,  the  establishment  of  new  houses 
within  a  numerically  weak  province  (1)  was  bound  to  lead 
to  unpleasant  rivalries.  The  Apostolic  Nuncio,  too,  over¬ 
ruled  in  several  points  the  restrictions  made  by  the 
General.  Thus,  a  storm  was  preparing,  and  at  the  death 
of  the  Nuncio  it  burst  over  the  Reform,  threatening  to 
sweep  it  from  the  face  of  the  earth.  The  general  chapter 
(1575)  decided  upon  its  total  suppression,  and  this  the 
more  readily  as  the  previous  Reforms  had  also  been 
fruitful  in  troubles,  and  so  far  .from  strengthening  the 
Order  had  weakened  it. 

S.  John  of  the  Cross  was  at  that  time  at  Avila.  He 
had  occupied  for  some  time  the  position  of  master  of 

(!)  ‘  Seeing  how  very  few  friars  there  were  in  the  province,  for  they 
seemed  to  me  to  be  dying  out.’  (S.  Teresa,  Bk.  of  Foundations,  ch.  ii.  §  5.) 


IN  THE  CARMELITE  ORDER. 


11 


novices,  and  filled  other  important  offices.  When  S.  Teresa 
became  prioress  of  the  convent  of  the  Incarnation  she 
caused  him  to  be  appointed  confessor  to  the  nuns.  The 
result  of  his  direction  on  the  numerous  community  was 
wonderful.  The  sisters  spontaneously  relinquished  the 
relaxations  to  which  they  had  been  accustomed,  and  vied 
with  each  other  in  fervour  and  zeal.  Many  of  them 
reached  a  high  degree  of  spirituality.  With  the  exception 
of  a  short  interruption  S.  John  remained  at  his  post  for 
nearly  six  years,  from  the  beginning  of  1572  to  the  end  of 
1577,  when  he  was  suddenly  taken  prisoner  by  the  Calced 
Carmelites  and  hurried  off  to  Toledo,  where  he  was  treated 
as  one  guilty  of  rebellion.  All  the  convents  founded  in 
Spain  without  the  sanction  of  the  General  were  to  be 
closed.  S.  John,  as  well  as  the  other  friars  of  the  Reform, 
had  been  bidden  to  return  to  the  houses  to  which  they 
originally  belonged ;  but  as  he  held  his  post  of  confessor 
to  the  Incarnation  on  the  authority  of  the  Nuncio  he  paid 
no  heed  to  the  ruling  of  the  provincial,  and  was  therefore 
considered  a  rebel.  Throughout  the  painful  history  of 
the  Reform  nearly  all  the  mischief  resulted  from  the 
existence  of  two  different  authorities,  at  variance  with 
each  other. 

XI.  S.  John  was  cast  into  prison  at  Toledo  and  under¬ 
went  most  cruel  treatment  for  more  than  eight  months. 
During  all  this  time  he  lived  in  a  narrow,  stifling  cell,  with 
no  window  but  only  a  small  loophole  through  which  a  ray 
of  light  entered  for  a  short  time  of  the  day.  There  is  an 
allusion  to  it  in  the  ‘  Ascent. ’f1)  Reading  and  writing 
were  of  course  all  but  impossible.  Instead  of  this  he  spent 
his  time  in  uninterrupted  prayer.  He  also  composed  here 
some  of  his  most  exquisite  verses,  notably  the  Spiritual 
Canticle.  The  explanation  of  this  wonderful  piece  of 
(*)  See  bk.  II.,  ch.  xiv.,  §  8. 


12 


THE  DEVELOPMENT  OF  MYSTICISM 


poetry,  written  many  years  later,  gives  us  an  insight  into 
the  workings  of  his  soul  during  this  trying  time. 

At  length  he  made  good  his  escape  in  a  manner  that 
can  only  be  termed  miraculous.  It  furnished  the  theme 
of  the  verses  forming  the  argument  of  both  the  ‘  Ascent  ’ 
and  the  ‘  Obscure  Night.’ 

In  a  dark  night , 

With  anxious  love  inflamed, 

O  happy  lot ! 

Forth  unobserved  I  went, 

My  house  being  now  at  rest. 

In  darkness  and  in  safety , 

By  a  secret  ladder  disguised. 

O  happy  lot! 

In  darkness  and  concealment, 

My  house  being  now  at  rest ,  etc. 

The  imprisonment  of  S.  John  marked  the  climax  of  the 
opposition  of  the  Friars  of  the  old  Observance  against  the 
Discalced  Carmelites.  Shortly  afterwards  the  latter  con¬ 
stituted  themselves  as  a  special  province  of  the  Order, 
and,  after  the  death  of  S.  Teresa  and  S.  John  of  the 
Cross,  who  perhaps  would  have  demurred,  they  separated 
themselves  entirely  from  the  old  stock  and  became  an 
independent  Order.  For  our  present  purpose  it  only 
remains  to  add  that  if  S.  John’s  perpetual  prayer  was  ‘to 
suffer  and  be  despised,’  he  was  heard,  for  the  treatment 
he  received  at  the  hands  of  the  provincial  of  the  Discalced 
Carmelites,  Fr.  Nicholas  Doria,  was  hardly  less  severe 
than  what  he  experienced  in  prison  at  Toledo,  and  had 
not  even  the  excuse  of  a  technical  fault  on  his  part.  He 
exchanged  the  cross  for  a  heavenly  crown  on  14th  De¬ 
cember,  1591. 

XII.  S.  John  of  the  Cross  wrote  a  number  of  works, 
namely,  the  ‘Ascent  of  Mount  Carmel  ’  and  the  ‘  Obscure 


IN  THE  CARMELITE  ORDER. 


13 


Night  of  the  Soul/  in  1578;  an  explanation  of  the 
‘  Spiritual  Canticle/  and  of  the  ‘  Living  Flame  of  Love/ 
in  1584.  Besides  these  we  possess  a  certain  number  of 
Instructions,  Maxims,  Letters,  and  a  collection  of 
Poems.  (1)  We  are  here  chiefly  concerned  with  the 
book  entitled  ‘  The  Ascent  of  Mount  Carmel.’ 

It  has  been  recorded  (2)  that  during  his  studies  he 
particularly  relished  psychology ;  this  is  amply  borne  out 
by  his  writings.  S.  John  was  not  what  one  would  term 
a  scholar.  He  was,  however,  intimately  acquainted  with 
the  Summa  of  S.  Thomas  Aquinas,  as  almost  every  page 
of  his  works  prove.  Holy  Scripture  he  seems  to  have 
known  by  heart,  yet  he  evidently  obtained  his  knowledge 
more  by  meditation  than  in  the  lecture  room.  Many  of 
his  quotations  and  applications  appear  to  us  far  fetched, 
or  at  least,  allegorical  in  the  extreme.  He  does  not  seem 
to  have  ever  applied  himself  to  the  study  of  the  Fathers. 
He  twice  quotes  the  Soliloquies  of  S.  Augustine,  (3)  once  a 
sermon  by  the  same,  and  another  by  S.  Gregory.  (4)  In 
the  Prologue  to  the  ‘  Ascent  ’  he  says  that  he  does  not 
trust  to  knowledge  but  only  to  the  Scriptures ;  but  we 
think  that,  had  he  had  an  extensive  acquaintance  with 
the  writings  of  S.  Augustine,  it  would  infallibly  have 
betrayed  itself.  The  fact  that  he  shows  no  trace  of 
influence  of  the  great  mystics  of  the  middle  age — Hugh 
of  S.  Victor,  S.  Bernard,  S.  Bonaventure,  &c. — would 
justify  the  inference  that  he  had  not  studied  their  works. 

(!)  San  Juan  de  la  Cruz.  Poesias.  Colleccion  formada  por  el  P.  Angel 
Maria  de  S.  Teresa.  Burgos,  1904,  Besides  the  well-known  poetical 
works  of  the  Saint,  this  collection  contains  a  number  of  poems  recently 
discovered.  Mention  may  be  made  here  of  the  new  and  elegant  trans¬ 
lation  of  the  Spiritual  Canticle,  by  a  Cistercian  Oblate  (Miss  Annie 
Monteith),  Market  Weighton,  Yorkshire  (without  date). 

(2)  See  Life  of  S.  John  of  the  Cross,  p.  24. 

(3)  Or,  to  speak  more  correctly,  a  compilation  of  the  13th  century 
attributed  to  S.  Augustine. 

(4)  Which  he  must  have  known  from  the  Breviary,  where  it  occurs  on 
Low  Sunday, 


14 


THE  DEVELOPMENT  OF  MYSTICISM 


XIII.  There  is,  however,  one  mystical  author  with 
whose  writings  he  was  thoroughly  familiar :  S.  Teresa. 
During  the  two  years  they  both  lived  at  the  Incarnation 
at  Avila  he  was  her  confessor  and  director.  The  letters 
she  wrote  during  the  next  few  years  were  unfortunately 
destroyed  at  the  outbreak  of  the  persecution,  but  as  S. 
Teresa  returned  to  Avila  (though  not  to  the  convent  of 
the  Incarnation)  in  July,  1577,  the  two  Saints  had  plenty 
of  opportunity  to  see  each  other  before  S.  John  was  im¬ 
prisoned.  Hence  it  follows  that  S.  John  cannot  but  have 
been  fully  conversant  with  S.  Teresa’s  experiences  and 
her  interpretation  of  them,  while  she  must  have  been  well 
versed  in  S.  John’s  teaching.  We  are,  therefore,  pre¬ 
pared  to  expect  complete  identity  of  doctrine  in  their 
several  works.  But  it  can  also  be  proved  that  S.  John, 
when  writing  the  ‘Ascent  ’  and  the  ‘  Obscure  Night,’  had 
read  the  three  principal  works  of  Teresa,  her  ‘  Life,’  the 
‘  Way  of  Perfection,’  and  the  *  Interior  Castle.’  That  he 
knew  them  later  on  is  clear  from  a  passage  in  the 
‘  Spiritual  Canticle,’  (1)  where  he  explicitly  refers  to  them 
and  expresses  the  hope  that  they  would  soon  be  published, 
as,  in  fact,  they  were  about  three  years  later. 

XIV.  S.  Teresa  completed  her  ‘  Life  ’  about  the  middle 
of  1565,  and  though  the  original  manuscript  eventually 
found  its  way  into  the  archives  of  the  Inquisition,  several 
copies  were  circulating  among  her  friends,  and  sometimes 
among  her  enemies.  She  was  particularly  anxious  that 
her  confessors  should  know  her  well  and  wished  them  to 
read  her  work.  She  can  have  made  no  exception  with 
S.  John  of  the  Cross. 

The  first  version  of  the  ‘Way  of  Perfection  ’  dates  from 
1566  and  the  following  year,  and  this  book,  too,  soon 
became  public  property,  even  more  so  than  the  ‘  Life.’ 
p)  Spiritual  Canticle,  stanza  XIII. 


IN  THE  CARMELITE  ORDER. 


15 


The  ‘  Interior  Castle,’  begun  at  Toledo  in  the  summer  of 
1577  was  completed  at  Avila  at  the  end  of  November,  only 
four  days  before  S.  John  was  taken  prisoner.  He  may, 
therefore,  not  have  seen  the  concluding  chapters,  but  he 
certainly  knew  the  earlier  parts,  for  he  distinctly  refers  to 
this  work (1)  :  “If  the  soul  shall  overcome  the  devil  in  the 
first  combat  it  shall  then  pass  on  to  the  second;  and  if  it 
shall  be  victorious  there  also,  it  shall  then  pass  on  to  the 
third;  and  then  through  the  seven  Mansions,  the  seven 
degrees  of  love,  until  the  Bridegroom  shall  bring  it  to  the 
“  cellar  of  wine  ”  of  perfect  charity.’ 

XV.  There,  are,  moreover,  some  unmistakeable  allusions 
to  various  parts  of  her  writings.  Thus,  her  favorite  parable 
of  the  Water  and  the  Well  appears  twice  in  the  ‘Ascent.’ (3) 
There  is  also  the  comparison  with  the  fruit  of  the 
palmito  (3) ;  references  to  S.  Teresa’s  period  of  lukewarm¬ 
ness  (4) ;  to  her  inability  to  pray  when  God  did  not  intend 
hearing  her  (5) ;  to  the  difficulty  she  sometimes  experi¬ 
enced  in  making  known  to  her  confessors  the  revelations, 
visions,  and  other  favours  she  had  received;  (6)  to  the 
‘  Locution  ’  of  Our  Lord  :  ‘  Be  not  afraid,  it  is  I,’  which 
so  wonderfully  consoled  her  in  sore  distress  ;(7)  and  to  the 
help  she  found  in  the  recollection  of  His  word  ‘  Peace  be 
with  you.’(8)  Again  we  find  a  distinct  allusion  in  the 
‘Ascent’  to  a  passage  occurring  in  one  of  the  Relations.(9) 
It  need  scarcely  be  said  that  all  this  cannot  be  mere 

(1)  Infra,  p.  109.  See  ‘  Interior  Castle,’  v.  Mansion,  ch.  ii. ,  §  n. 

(2)  Infra,  p.  123  ;  173.  See  ‘Life  of  S.  Teresa,’  ch.  xi.,  sqq.  xxx.,  §  23. 

•  Interior  Castle,’  i.  Mansion,  ch.  ii.,  §  3.  iv.  Mansion,  ch.  ii.,  §§  3,  4,  8. 

(3)  •  Interior  Castle,’  i.  Mansion,  ch.  ii.;  §  8.  Infra,  p.  123. 

(*)  Infra,  p.  143.  Cf.  ‘  Life,’  ch.  vii.,  §  11. 

(s)  Infra,  p.  246.  Cf.  ‘Life,’  ch.  xxxix.,  §§  8-10. 

(6)  P.  194.  Cf.  '  Life,"  ch.  xxiii.,  §  19. 

(7)  P.  233.  Cf.  ‘  Life,’  ch.  xxv.,  §  22.  Rel.  vii.,  §  22.  'Interior  Castle,’ 
vi.  Mansion,  ch.  iii .,  §  8. 

(s)  Infra,  p.  253,  'Interior  Castle,’  v.  Mansion,  ch.  i.,  §  10  et  passim. 

(®)  Infra,  p.  280.  Relation  v.  §  5. 


16 


THE  DEVELOPMENT  OF  MYSTICISM 


coincidence,  but  is  a  clear  proof  that  S.  John  knew  S. 
Teresa’s  writings. 

The  question  may  be  asked  how  far  the  two  great  mys¬ 
tics  agreed  with  each  other.  To  our  mind  there  is  no  real 
difference  in  their  teaching,  beyond  the  fact  that  S.  Teresa 
starts  with  the  record  of  her  experiences  and  proceeds  to 
analyse  them,  with  the  help  of  the  general  principles 
already  enumerated  ;  while  S.  John  first  establishes  the 
principles  and  uses  the  personal  experience,  whether  his 
own  or  that  of  others,  as  illustrations.  It  will,  therefore, 
surprise  no  one  that  he  is  not  quite  so  enthusiastic  as 
S.  Teresa  about  the  effects  of  some  of  the  phenomena, 
notably  certain  ‘  Locutions.’  Teresa  knew  well  what  she 
had  gained  thereby,  while  S.  John,  from  the  standpoint  of 
the  philosopher,  passes  his  verdict  on  the  general  aspect 
of  the  question. 

XVI.  When'S.  John  undertook  to  write  on  Mystical 
theology  for  the  benefit  of  confessors  and  directors,  he 
probably  had  before  him  a  book  mentioned  by  S.  Teresa : 
Subida  del  Monte  Sion,  the  Ascent  of  Mount  Sion.f1)  He 
naturally  entitled  his  ‘Ascent  of  Mount  Carmel ’  as  he 
intended  to  address  himself  chiefly  to  the  members  of  his 
own  Order.  He  took  for  his  argument  the  poem  on  his 
escape  from  prison,  to  which  the  escape  of  the  soul  from 
the  bonds  of  the  senses  and  of  earthly  affections  forms  the 
counterpart.  But  he  carried  the  allegory  only  as  far  as 
the  beginning  of  the  second  verse,  and,  after  the  first 
chapter  of  the  second  book,  dropped  it  altogether.  He 
first  intended  to  complete  his  work  in  four  books,  but  for 
some  reason  that  has  not  reached  us  he  not  even  finished 
the  third  book,  breaking  off  in  the  middle  of  the  treatise 
on  the  sources  of  joy  in  the  Will.  His  second  work,  the 
‘  Obscure  Night,’  too,  is  left  unfinished,  though  to  some 
(1)  '  Life  of  S.  Teresa,’  ch.  xxiii.,  §  13. 


IN  THE  CARMELITE  ORDER. 


17 


extent  the  two  books  supplement  each  other.  The  ‘Ascent  ’ 
deals  with  the  active  purgation  of  the  senses,  the  intellect 
and  the  will,  that  is  with  the  need  for,  and  the  manner  of, 
the  complete  mortification  of  these,  as  far  as  under  the 
grace  of  God  it  depends  on  the  power  of  man.  The 
‘Obscure  Night’  treats  of  the  passive  purgation  of  the 
same  faculties,  brought  about  by  Divine  intervention 
which  steps  in  where  human  endeavours  fail. 

The  key  to  the  whole  treatise  will  be  found  in  the 
seventh  chapter  of  the  second  book  of  the  ‘Ascent.’  As  has 
already  been  stated  the  whole  work  is  based  upon  the  view 
S.  Thomas  Aquinas  takes  of  the  essence  and  operations  of 
the  senses  and  of  the  faculties  of  the  soul,  and  upon  his 
treatise  on  the  virtues.  P.  46  and  again  pp.  52-54  give  in 
a  nutshell  the  teaching  of  the  great  leader  of  scholastic 
philosophy  and  theology.  Having  fully  mastered  these 
important  branches  of  knowledge,  S.  John  had  a  great 
advantage  over  S.  Teresa,  who  at  every  step  was  con¬ 
fronted  with  problems  the  solution  of  which  she  had  to 
seek  from  her  friends,  especially  those  of  the  Dominican 
Order.  The  trained  mind  of  S.  John  ensured  also  a  more 
methodical  treatment  of  his  subject  instead  of  the  frequent 
and  sometimes  tedious  interruptions  so  prominent  in  S. 
Teresa’s  style.  On  the  other  hand,  the  absence  of  the 
personal  element  in  his  writings  deprives  S.  John  of  much 
of  the  charm  whereby  S.  Teresa  has  become  one  of  the 
most  popular  writers  on  spiritual  subjects.  Only  once  he 
discovers  his  personal  feelings,  namely  with  regard  to  good 
taste  in  the  art  of  painting^1) 

XVII.  Some  readers  may  ask  themselves  whether  S. 
John  of  the  Cross  is  not  dealing  with  subjects  that  have 
lost  all  practical  importance  ?  True,  we  now-a-days  hear 
but  little  of  mystical  phenomena.  The  study  of  these 

(i)  Infra,  p.  345 


18 


THE  DEVELOPMENT  OF  MYSTICISM 


matters  is,  of  course,  always  necessary,  but  should  it  not 
be  reserved  to  specialists  ?  We  venture  to  think  that  the 
principles  he  establishes  with  such  force  and  clearness 
may  even  assist  those  who  are  not  engaged  in  the  direc¬ 
tion  of  souls,  or  who  do  not  aspire  to  the  highest  walks 
of  Christian  perfection.  For  are  there  not  such  things, 
even  at  the  present  time,  and  now,  perhaps,  more  than 
ever,  as  spiritualistic  phenomena,  visions,  revelations, 
communications,  &c.,  and  do  not  the  principles  laid  down 
in  the  16th  century  form  a  sound  basis  for  the  discern¬ 
ment  of  spirits,  and  the  distinction  between  what  is  good 
and  wholesome,  and  what  is  evil  and  deleterious  ?  f1) 

XVIII.  Of  far  greater  importance  than  to  the  students 
of  psychical  phenomena  is  S.  John  of  the  Cross  to  those 
whose  earnest  endeavour  it  is  to  reach  the  height  of  per¬ 
fection  in  the  present  life.  Man  is  created  for  God,  and 
is  called  to  become  like  Him.  He  must  be  stripped,  not 
only  of  what  is  contrary  to  God.  but  even  of  what  is  not 
conducive  to  the  attainment  of  that  high  destiny.  This 
constitutes  the  essence  of  contemplation,  not  visions  and 
revelations.  No  writer  has  ever  laid  down  with  greater 
force  than  S.  John  the  canons  whereby  contemplatives 
must  regulate  their  conduct :  his  works,  therefore,  have 
a  lasting  value,  and  it  is  a  real  consolation  to  know 
that  even  in  our  materialistic  age  there  are  numerous 
souls  ready  to  follow  his  guidance.  Inexorable  as  he  is, 
he  only  carries  to  the  last  consequences  the  firm  rule  of 
the  Master  :  If  any  man  come  after  Me  let  him  deny 
himself.  (2)  But,  perhaps,  they  may  ask  themselves 
whether  the  carrying  out  of  S.  John’s  axioms  would  not 
seriously  interfere  with  their  several  positions  in  life  ? 
His  principles  are  clear  and  unimpeachable,  as  everyone 

(!)  Infra,  p.  182,  sqq.  223. 

(2)  Mr  W.  R.  Inge  (Christian  Mysticism,  p.  223)  is  hardly  consistent 
in  passing  a  .harsh  judgement  on  S.  John  of  the  Cross 


IN  THE  CARMELITE  ORDER. 


19 


must  acknowledge  who  takes  the  trouble  of  examining 
them.  They  flow  directly  from  the  most  elementary 
notions.  But  are  they  practical?  S.  John  himself  felt 
the  weight  of  this  question,  for  he  puts  it  himself,  but  his 
answer  will  probably  convince  but  few  of  his  readers^1)  If 
I  must  mortify,  not  alone  my  unruly  passions  and  my 
senses,  but  even  all  the  powers  of  the  intellect,  the  me¬ 
mory,  the  will,  how  shall  I  fulfil  my  duties  in  life?  To 
say  that  God  will  supernaturally  rouse  my  memory  at  the 
proper  moment  is  hardly  in  agreement  with  the  purpose 
for  which  it  has  been  given  me.  To  neglect  the  natural 
use  and  trust  in  miracles  is  nothing  but  presumption. 

XIX.  The  true  answer  is  that  Christian  perfection  pre¬ 
supposes  the  fulfilment  of  all  our  duties,  without  which 
the  cardinal  virtue  of  justice  is  not  even  conceivable. 
This  fulfilment  of  duty  must  itself  be  perfect,  and  to  be  so 
it  requires  the  co-operation  of  all  our  faculties,  physical  as 
well  as  mental,  according  to  the  nature  of  the  duties  in 
question.  S.  John  of  the  Cross  himself — not  to  mention 
S.  Teresa — is  a  splendid  example  of  a  Christian  who 
placed  all  his  energy  and  power  at  the  disposal  of  his 
Master.  The  mortification  of  the  faculties  in  his  case 
consisted  probably  in  this  that  he  did  not  allow  them  to 
go  beyond  the  narrow  path  of  the  line  of  duty.  While 
writing  his  mystical  works,  no  doubt  many  a  brilliant  idea 
may  have  occurred  to  him,  yet  he  sacrificed  a  more 
spirited  style  in  order  to  keep  strictly  within  the  lines 
traced  for  him.  Now  and  then,  however,  God  may  have 
brought  some  happy  comparison  to  his  mind.  This,  we 
conceive,  would  exemplify  his  meaning  when  speaking  of 
the  mortification  of  the  memory,  and  the  rest  of  his 
remarks  must  be  interpreted  in  a  similar  manner.  From 
this  it  will  be  seen  that  his  teaching,  once  again,  is  most 

(*)  Infra,  p.  244,  248-249. 


20 


THE  DEVELOPMENT  OF  MYSTICISM 


reasonable,  for  the  man  who  has  a  great  and  difficult  task 
before  him,  and  little  time  to  complete  it  in,  cannot  afford 
to  squander  it  by  unnecessary  diversions,  but  goes  straight 
to  the  goal,  leaving  everything  else  aside. 

Even  so  we  freely  acknowledge  that  the  contemplative 
man  is  in  many  ways  at  a  disadvantage  when  compared 
with  others  of  a  more  worldly  turn  of  mind.  But  this 
merely  accentuates  the  position  in  which  a  true  Christian 
finds  himself,  compared  with  one  who  is  not  hampered 
by  a  very  sensitive  conscience.  It  only  adds  a  new  proof 
to  the  old  saying  that  ‘the  children  of  this  world  are  wiser 
in  their  generation  than  the  children  of  light.’ 

XX.  The  impulse  given  by  S.  Teresa  and  S.  John  of 
the  Cross  has  borne  abundant  fruit.  The  annals  and 
chronicles  of  the  Order,  so  far  as  they  are  published,  bear 
witness  to  the  earnestness  with  which  in  almost  every 
country  of  Europe,  and  even  in  remote  parts  of  the  wrorld, 
the  teaching  of  these  great  mystics  has  been  carried  into 
practise  by  countless  souls.  For  our  present  purpose  it 
will  suffice  to  mention  a  few  of  the  authors  who  have 
systematically  treated  Mystical  theology  on  the  lines  laid 
down  by  Teresa  and  John.  The  ascetical  part  has  never 
had  a  more  thoroughgoing  exponent  than  the  Ven.  John 
of  Jesus-Mary  (J-  1615),  while  the  purely  mystical  side 
has  been  exhaustively  .treated  by  the  Ven.  Jerome-Gratian 
(-J-  1614);  the  Ven.  Thomas  of  Jesus  (+  1627);  Fr. 
Philip  of  the  Blessed  Trinity  (+  1671),  whose  Summa 
theologies  mysticce  (reprinted  in  three  vols.  at  Brussels  in 
1874),  may  be  considered  as  the  official  utterance  of  the 
Order  on  these  subjects.  We  must,  however,  add  the 
names  of  Antony  of  the  Holy  Ghost  (+  1674),  Antony  of 
the  Annunciation  (-J-  1714),  and  Joseph  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
(+  1739),  and  that  of  a  lay-brother,  Lawrence  of  the  Re¬ 
surrection  (+  1690).  The  Calced  Carmelites,  too,  have 


IN  THE  CARMELITE  ORDER. 


21 


produced  a  number  of  authors  dealing  with  Mystical  the¬ 
ology,  notably  Fr.  Michael  of  S.  Augustin  (-j-  16S4),  and 
a  lay-brother,  John  of  S.  Samson  (-(-  1636).  Among 
those  who  personally  experienced  mystical  phenomena, 
S.  Mary-Magdalen  de  Pazzi  (+  1607),  is  second  only  to 
S.  Teresa ;  scarcely  less  marvellous  was  the  Ven.  Margaret 
of  the  Blessed  Sacrament  (-f-  1648),  whose  beatification 
will  shortly  take  place. 

XXI.  The  works  of  S.  John  of  the  Cross  were  first 
published  in  Spanish  in  1619.  An  excellent,  if  somewhat 
antiquated,  French  translation  appeared  in  1652  from  the 
pen  of  Fr.  Cyprian  of  the  Nativity,  who  had  also  trans¬ 
lated  those  of  S.  Teresa.  He  enriched  his  edition  by  a 
translation  of  the  Commentary  on  S.  John  of  the  Cross, 
by  Fr.  Nicholas  of  Jesus  (-f-  1660),  and  certain  notes  by 
Fr.  James  of  Jesus,  of  Toledo.  A  recent  publication  by 
Sr.  Berrueta  Dominguez,  El  misticismo  en  la  poesia :  San 
Juan  de  la  Cruz,  1897,  deserves  to  be  noticed  in  this  place. 

The  first,  and,  so  far,  only  English  translation  of  S. 
John  was  made  by  the  late  David  Lewis,  M.A.,  at  the 
request  of  Fr.  Faber,  and  appeared  in  two  volumes  in 
1864,  with  an  excellent  introduction  by  Cardinal  Wise¬ 
man.  In  the  second  edition  (Thomas  Baker,  1888)  this 
was  replaced  by  the  Life  of  S.  John,  otherwise  the  edition 
remained  practically  unchanged.  The  present  volume  is 
a  reprint  of  the  last-named  edition,  with  a  few  printer’s 
errors  corrected. 

Fr.  BENEDICT  ZIMMERMAN 

Prior,  O.C.D. 

St.  Luke’s  Priory, 

Wincanton,  Somerset. 

Feast  of  the  Conversion  of  S.  Paul,  igo6. 


THE 

ASCENT  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL 


1 


THE 


ASCENT  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL 


ARGUMENT. 

The  following  stanzas  are  a  summary  of  the  doctrine 
contained  in  this  book  of  the  Ascent  of  Mount  Carmel. 
They  also  describe  how  we  are  to  ascend  to  the  summit 
of  it,  that  is,  to  the  high  state  of  perfection,  called  here 
union  of  the  soul  with  God.  I  place  all  the  stanzas 
together,  because  that  which  I  have  to  say  is  founded 
upon  them.  Thus  the  whole  substance  of  my  book 
may  be  comprehended  at  once.  I  shall  also  transcribe 
each  stanza  again,  and  each  line  separately,  as  the 
nature  of  my  work  requires. 

STANZAS. 

i 

In  a  dark  night, 

With  anxious  love  inflamed, 

O,  happy  lot ! 

Forth  unobserved  I  went, 

My  house  being  now  at  rest. 

n 

In  darkness  and  in  safety, 

By  the  secret  ladder,  disguised, 

O,  happy  loti 

In  darkness  and  concealment. 

My  house  being  now  at  rest. 


2 


THE  ASCENT  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


HI 

la  that  happy  night, 

In  secret,  seen  of  none, 

Seeing  nought  myself. 

Without  other  light  or  guide 

Save  that  which  in  my  heart  was  burning 

IV 

That  light  guided  me 
More  surely  than  the  noonday  sun 
To  the  place  where  He  was  waiting  for  me, 
Whom  I  knew  well, 

And  where  none  appeared. 

v 

O,  guiding  night ; 

O,  night  more  lovely  than  the  dawn ; 

O,  night  that  hast  united 
The  lover  with  His  beloved, 

And  changed  her  into  her  love. 

VI 

On  my  flowery  bosom, 

Kept  whole  for  Him  alone, 

There  He  reposed  and  slept ; 

And  I  caressed  Him,  and  the  waving 
Of  the  cedars  fanned  Him. 

VII 

As  His  hair  floated  in  the  breeze 
That  blew  from  the  turret, 

He  struck  me  on  the  neck 
With  His  gentle  hand, 

And  all  sensation  left  me. 

VIII 

I  continued  in  oblivion  lost, 

My  head  was  resting  on  my  love; 

Lost  to  all  things  and  myself, 

And,  amid  the  lilies  forgotten, 

Threw  all  my  cares  away. 


THE  ASCENT  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


3 


PROLOGUE. 

The  dark  night,  through  which  the  soul  passes,  on  its 
way  to  the  divine  light  of  the  perfect  union  of  the 
love  of  God — so  far  as  it  is  in  this  life  possible — - 
requires  for  its  explanation  greater  experience  and 
light  of  knowledge  than  I  possess.  Por  so  great  are 
the  trials,  and  so  profound  the  darkness,  spiritual  as 
well  as  corporal,  through  which  souls  must  pass,  if 
they  will  attain  to  perfection,  that  no  human  learning 
can  explain  them,  nor  experience  describe  them.  He 
only  who  has  passed  through  them  can  know  them, 
but  even  he  cannot  explain  them.  Therefore,  while 
touching  but  slightly  on  the  subject  of  this  dark  night,, 
I  trust  neither  to  experience  nor  to  knowledge,  for 
both  may  mislead  me  ;  but  solely  to  the  Holy  Scrip¬ 
tures,  under  the  teaching  of  which  I  cannot  err, 
because  He  who  speaks  therein  is  the  Ploly  Ghost, 
Nevertheless,  I  accept  the  aid  of  experience  and  learn¬ 
ing,  and  if  through  ignorance  I  should  err,  it  is  not 
my  intention  to  depart  from  the  sound  doctrine  of  out 
holy  mother  the  Catholic  Church.  I  resign  myself 
absolutely  to  her  light,  and  submit  to  her  decisions, 
and  moreover  to  the  better  judgment  herein  of  private 
men,  be  they  who  they  may. 

2. — It  is  not  any  personal  fitness  which  I  recognise 
in  myself  that  has  led  me  to  undertake  this  work,  so 
high  and  so  difficult,  but  solely  my  trust  in  our  Lord, 
Who,  I  hope,  will  enable  me  to  speak  on  account  ol 
the  great  necessities  of  many  souls.  Many  persons 


B2 


4 


THE  ASCENT  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


begin  to  walk  in  the  way  of  virtue — our  Lord  longing 
to  lead  them  into  this  dark  night  that  they  may  travel 
onwards  into  the  divine  union — but  make  no  progress ; 
sometimes  because  they  will  not  enter  upon  this  night, 
nor  suffer  Him  to  lead  them  into  it ;  and  sometimes 
also  because  they  do  not  understand  their  own  state, 
and  are  destitute  of  fit  and  wise  directors  who  may 
guide  them  to  the  summit  of  the  mount.  How  miser¬ 
able  it  is  to  see  many  souls,  to  whom  Go$  has  given 
grace  to  advance — and  who.'  had  they  taken  courage, 
would  have  reached  perfection — remain  ungenerous  in 
their  dealing  with  God,  through  want  of  will  or 
through  ignorance,  or  because  they  have  no  one  to 
direct  their  steps,  and  to  teach  them  how  to  go 
onwards  from  the  beginning.  And  in  the  end,  when 
our  Lord  has  compassion  on  them,  and  leads  them  on 
in  spite  of  these  hindrances,  they  arrive  late,  with  much 
difficulty,  and  less  merit,  because  they  have  not 
submitted  themselves  to  His  ways,  nor  suffered  Him 
to  plant  their  feet  on  the  pure  and  certain  road  of 
union.  Though  it  is  true  that  God,  Who  leads  them, 
can  do  so  without  these  helps,  still,  because  they  do 
not  yield  themselves  up  to  Him,  they  make  less  pro¬ 
gress  on  the  road,  resisting  their  guide  ;  and  they 
merit  less  because  they  do  not  submit  their  will, 
whereby  their  sufferings  are  increased.  There  are 
souls  who.  instead  of  abandoning  themselves  to  the 
care  and  protection  of  God,  hinder  Him  rather  by 
their  indiscreet  behaviour,  or  resistance  ;  like  little 
children  who,  when  their  mothers  would  carry  them 
in  their  arms,  struggle  and  cry  that  they  may  be 


THE  ASCENT  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


O 


allowed  to  walk.  These  souls  make  no  progress,  or  if 
they  do,  it  is  comparable  only  to  the  walking  of  an 
infant  child. 

3.  — In  order  that  men  may  know,  beginners  as  well  as 
those  who  have  made  some  progress,  how  to  resign  them¬ 
selves  into  the  hands  of  God  when  it  is  His  pleasure  to 
lead  them,  I  purpose,  by  His  help,  to  furnish  instruction 
and  counsel,  whereby  they  may  understand  the  matter  for 
themselves,  or  at  least  submit  to  the  guidance  of  God. 
Some  confessors  and  spiritual  directors,  because  they 
have  no  perception  or  experience  of  these  ways,  are  a 
hindrance  and  an  evil,  rather  than  a  help  to  such  souls  ; 
they  are  like  the  builders  of  Babel  ;  who,  when  required 
to  furnish  certain  materials,  furnished  others  of  a  very 
different  sort,  because  they  knew  not  the  language  of 
those  around  them,  and  thus  the  building  was  stopped. 

‘  Come  ye  therefore,’  saith  God,  ‘  let  us  go  down  and  there 
confound  their  tongue,  that  none  may  hear  his  neighbour’s 
voice.  And  so  our  Lord  dispersed  them.’  * 

4.  It  is  a  hard  and  miserable  thing  for  souls  when  they 
cannot  comprehend  their  own  state,  nor  meet  with  any 
one  who  can.  For  when  God  leads  any  one  along  the 
highest  road  of  obscure  contemplation  and  dryness,  such 
an  one  will  think  himself  lost ;  and  in  this  darkness  and 
trouble,  distress  and  temptation,  some  will  be  sure  to  tell 
him,  like  the  comforters  of  Job,f  that  his  sufferings  are 
the  effects  of  melancholy,  or  of  disordered  health,  or  of 
natural  temperament,  or,  it  may  be,  of  some  secret  sin 
for  which  God  has  abandoned  him.  Yea,  they  will  decide 
at  once  that  he  is,  or  that  he  has  been,  exceedingly 

*  Gen.  xi.  7,  8.  t  Job.  iv. 


6 


TIIE  ASCENT  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


wicked,  seeing  that  he  is  thus  afflicted.  Some  also  will 
say  that  he  is  going  backwards,  because  he  finds  no  con¬ 
solation  or  pleasure,  as  before,  in  the  things  of  God. 
Thus  they  multiply  the  sorrows  of  this  poor  soul,  for  his 
greatest  trial  is  the  knowledge  of  his  own  misery,  when 
it  seems  to  him  clearer  than  light  that  he  is  full  of  evil 
and  sin,  because  God  enables  him,  as  I  shall  hereafter 
explain,*  to  see  this  in  the  night  of  contemplation.  And 
so,  when  he  meets  with  those  who  tell  him,  in  accordance 
with  his  own  impressions,  that  his  troubles  arise  out  of 
his  own  sins,  his  grief  and  misery  are  infinitely  increased 
and  rendered  more  bitter  than  death. 

5.  Such  confessors  as  these,  not  satisfied  with  con¬ 
sidering  all  his  sorrows  to  flow  from  past  sins,  compel 
him  to  retrace  his  whole  life,  and  to  make  frequent 
general  confessions,  putting  him  on  the  rack  anew.  They 
do  not  understand  that  this  is  not  the  time  for  such 
acts ;  it  is  now  the  day  of  God’s  purgation,  when  they 
ought  to  leave  him  alone,  comforting  him,  indeed,  and 
encouraging  him  to  bear  his  trials  patiently  until  God 
.shall  be  pleased  to  deliver  him ;  for  until  then,  notwith¬ 
standing  all  they  may  say  or  do,  there  can  be  no  relief. 

6.  I  have  to  treat  of  this  with  the  help  of  God  here¬ 
after,  of  the  behaviour  of  the  soul,  and  the  dealings  of 
the  confessor  with  it,  of  the  signs  whereby  we  may  ascer¬ 
tain  whether  this  be  a  state  of  purgation,  and  if  it  be, 
whether  of  sense  or  of  spirit — this  is  the  dark  night  of 
which  I  am  speaking — and  whether  or  not  it  be  the  effect 
of  melancholy  or  any  other  imperfection  of  body  or  soul. 
V or  there  are  persons  who  will  think,  or  their  confessors 

*  Dark  Night,  bk.  ii.  ch.  6- 


THE  ASCENT  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


7 


for  them,  that  God  is  leading  them  along  the  road  of  the 
dark  night  of  spiritual  purg-ation,  and  yet,  perhaps,  all  is 
nothing  but  imperfection  of  sense  or  spirit ;  and  others 
also  who  think  they  do  not  pray  when  they  pray  much, 
and,  on  the  other  hand,  there  are  those  who  think 
they  pray  much  when  they  do  not  in  reality  pray  scarcely 
at  all. 

7.  There  are  some — and  it  is  sad  to  see  them — who 
toil  and  labour,  wearying  themselves,  and  yet  go  back¬ 
wards,  because  they  make  the  fruit  which  is  profitable  to 
consist  in  that  which  profits  not,  but  which  is  rather  a 
hindrance ;  and  others  who,  in  rest  and  quietness,  make 
great  advancement.  Others  also  there  are  who  turn 
the  very  graces  and  gifts  of  God,  given  them  for  their 
advancement,  into  embarrassments  and  stumbling-blocks 
on  the  road. 

8.  Those  who  travel  on  this  road  will  meet  with  many 
occasions  of  joys  and  sufferings,  hopes  and  sorrows,  some 
of  which  are  the  result  of  the  spirit  of  perfection,  others 
of  imperfection.  I  shall  endeavour,  by  God’s  help,  to 
speak  of  all,  so  that  everyone  who  shall  read  my  book 
may,  in  some  degree,  see  the  road  he  takes,  and  that 
which  he  ought  to  take,  if  he  wishes  to  ascend  to  the 
summit  of  this  mount. 

9.  As  my  book  treats  or  the  dark  night  in  which  the 
soul  journeys  on  to  God,  let  no  one  be  surprised  if  he 
finds  it  also  somewhat  obscure.  It  will  be  so,  certainly, 
at  first,  but  as  the  reader  advances  he  will  understand  it 
better,  for  one  part  of  it  will  throw  light  on  another.  If 
it  be  read  a  second  time  it  will  become  more  intelligible, 
{3.nd  the  doctrine  it  contains  will  appear  the  more  certain. 


8  THE  ASCENT  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

But  if  still  there  should  be  any  to  whom  it  shall  seem 
tiard,  let  them  ascribe  it  to  my  ignorance  and  poor  style, 
tor  the  matter  of  it  is  in  itself  good  and  very  necessary. 

10.  But  after  all  I  believe  that,  if  I  had  written  it  in 
*  more  perfect  manner,  many  would  not  appreciate  it, 
because  its  contents  are  not  those  moralities  and  sooth¬ 
ing  matters  which  those  spiritual  persons  run  after  who 
desire  to  draw  near  to  God  in  pleasant  ways,  but  a  solid 
and  substantial  doctrine  suited  to  all,  if  they  seek  to  ad¬ 
vance  to  that  detachment  of  spirit  which  is  here  described. 
My  principal  object,  however,  is  not  to  address  myself  to 
all,  but  only  to  certain  persons  of  our  holy  order  of  Mount 
Carmel,  of  the  primitive  observance  ;  friars  as  well  as 
nuns,  who  by  the  grace  of  God  are  on  the  pathway  of 
this  mount.  It  is  at  their  request  I  have  undertaken  my 
task.  They,  indeed,  already  detached  from  the  things  of 
this  life,  will  the  better  understand  this  doctrine  oi  detach¬ 
ment  of  spirit. 


THE  ASCENT  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


9 


BOOK  I. 

THE  NATURE  OF  THE  DARK  NIGHT,  THE  NECESSITY  OF 
PASSING  THROUGH  IT  IN  ORDER  TO  ATTAIN  TO  THE 
DIVINE  UNION  :  AND  SPECIALLY  THE  DARK  NIGHT  OF 
SENSE  AND  DESIRE,  WITH  THE  EVILS  WHICH  THESE 
INFLICT  ON  THE  SOUL. 


CHAPTER  I. 

Two  kinds  of  this  night,  corresponding  with  the  division  of 
the  soul  into  higher  and  lower. 


STANZA  I. 


In  a  dark  night , 

With  anxious  love  inflame d, 
O,  happy  lot! 

Forth  unobserved  I  went,  - 
My  house  being  novo  at  rest. 


THIS  stanza  describes  the  happy  state  of  the  soul  at  its 
departure  from  all  things,  from  the  desires  and  im¬ 
perfections  to  which  our  sensual  nature  is  subject  because 
it  is  not  ordered  by  reason.  The  meaning  of  it  is  this :  in 
order  to  reach  perfection,  the  soul  has  to  pass,  ordinarily, 
through  two  kinds  of  night,  which  spiritual  writers  call 


THE  ASCENT 


10 


[book  I.] 


purgations,  or  purifications,  of  the  soul,  and  which  I  have 
called  night,  because  in  the  one  as  well  as  in  the  other 
the  soul  travels,  as  it  were,  by  night,  in  darkness. 

2.  The  first  night  is  the  night,  or  purgation,  of  the 
sensual  part  of  the  soul,  treated  of  in  this  first  stanza,  and 
in  the  first  part  of  this  work.  The  second  night  is  the 
night  of  the  spiritual  part,  of  which  the  second  and  follow¬ 
ing  stanza  speaks,  and  which  I  shall  discuss  in  the  second 
part  of  my  work,  so  far  as  it  relates  to  the  soul’s  activity 
therein,  and  in  the  third  and  fourth  part,  so  far  as  it  re¬ 
lates  to  its  passive  condition  in  it. 

3.  The  meaning  of  the  stanza  then  is,  that  the  soul 
went  forth,  led  of  God,  through  love  of  Him  only,  and  with 
that  love  inflamed,  in  the  dark  night,  which  is  the  priva¬ 
tion  of,  and  purgation  from,  all  sensual  desires  in  all  out¬ 
ward  things  of  this  world  ;  all  the  pleasures  of  the  flesh, 
and  all  the  satisfactions  of  the  will.  This  is  wrought  in 
this  purgation  of  sense,  and  for  this  reason  is  it  said  that 
the  soul  went  forth,  its  house,  that  is  the  sensual  part, 
being  at  rest— all  its  desires  being  at  rest  and  asleep,  and 
the  soul  asleep  to  them  ;  for  there  is  no  going  away  from 
the  pains  and  vexations  of  the  desires  till  they  be  morti¬ 
fied  and  put  to  sleep. 

4.  The  happy  lot  of  the  soul,  then,  lies  in  this  unob¬ 
served  departure  which  no  carnal  desire  or  aught  else 
was  able  to  hinder.  And  also  in  that  this  departure  took 
place  by  night,  which  is  the  privation  of  all  desire 
wrought  by  God,  a  condition  which  is  as  night  to  the 
soul.  The  happy  lot  of  the  soul,  then,  consists  in  its 
being  led  of  God  into  this  night  from  which  so  great  a 
blessing  results,  but  info  which  it  could  not  have  entered 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


11 


[CHAP.  II.] 

of  itself,  because  no  one  is  able  in  his  own  strength  to 
empty  his  heart  of  all  desires,  so  as  to  draw  near  unto 
God.  This  is  the  meaning  of  the  stanza.  I  now  pro¬ 
ceed  to  explain  each  line  of  it  separately,  and  to  discuss 
the  subject  of  this  book. 


CHAPTER  II. 

The  nature  and  cause  of  the  dark  night. 

4  In  a  dark  night.’ — The  journey  of  the  soul  to  the  divine 
union  is  called  night  for  three  reasons.  The  first  is 
derived  from  the  point  from  which  the  soul  sets  out,  the 
privation  of  the  desire  of  all  pleasure  in  all  the  things  of 
this  world,  by  detachment  therefrom.  This  is  as  night 
for  every  desire  and  sense  of  man.  The  second,  from  the 
road  by  wThich  it  travels  ;  that  is  faith,  for  faith  is  obscure, 
like  night,  to  the  understanding.  The  third,  from  the 
goal  to  which  it  tends,  God,  incomprehensible  and  infi¬ 
nite,  Who  in  this  life  is  as  night  to  the  soul.  We  must 
pass  through  these  three  nights  if  we  are  to  attain  to  the 
divine  union  with  God. 

2.  They  are  foreshadowed  in  Holy  Scripture  by  the 
three  nights  which  were  to  elapse,  according  to  the  com¬ 
mand  of  the  angel,  between  the  betrothal  and  the  mar¬ 
riage  of  the  younger  Tobias.  ‘  When  thou  shalt  take 
her,’  said  the  angel,  ‘  entering  into  the  chamber,  for  three 
days  be  continent  from  her.’*  On  the  first  night  he  was 
to  burn  the  liver  of  the  fish  in  the  fire,  which  is  the  heart, 
the  affections  of  which  are  set  on  the  things  of  this  world, 
and  which,  if  it  will  enter  on  the  road  that  leadeth  unto 

*  Job.  vi.  ?§. 


12 


THE  ASCENT 


|  BOOK  I.] 

God,  must  be  burned  up,  and  purified  of  all  created  things 
in  the  fire  of  His  love.  This  purgation  drives  awav  the 
evil  spirit  who  has  dominion  over  our  soul,  because  of 
our  attachment  to  those  pleasures  which  flow  from  tem¬ 
poral  and  corporeal  things. 

S.  ‘  The  second  night,’  said  the  angel,  ‘  thou  shalt  be 
admitted  into  the  society  of  the  holy  patriarchs,'  the 
fathers  of  the  faith.  The  soul  having  passed  the  first 
night,  which  is  the  privation  of  all  sensible  things,  enters 
immediately  into  the  second  night,  alone  in  pure  faith, 
and  by  it  alone  directed  :  for  faith  is  not  subject  to 
sense. 

4.  ‘The  third  night,’  said  the  angel,  ‘thou  shalt 
obtain  a  blessing ’—that  is,  God,  Who,  in  the  second 
night  of  faith,  communicates  Himself  so  secretly  and 
so  intimately  to  the  soul.  This  is  another  night, 
inasmuch  as  this  communication  is  more  obscure 
than  the  others,  as  I  shall  presently  explain.  When 
this  night  is  over,  which  is  the  accomplishment 
of  the  communication  of  God  in  spirit,  ordinarily 
effected  when  the  soul  is  in  great  darkness,  the 
union  with  the  bride,  which  is  the  wisdom  of  God, 
immediately  ensues.  The  angel  adds  also,  saying  to 
Tobias,  ‘  When  the  third  night  is  passed,  thou  shait 
take  the  virgin  with  the  fear  of  our  Lord.’  This  fear 
and  the  love  of  God  become  perfect  together,  and  are 
then  perfect  when  the  soul  is  by  love  transformed  in 
God. 

5.  I  shall  speak  of  these  three  causes  separately,  that 
they  may  be  the  better  understood,  first  reminding  the 
reader  that  the  three  nights  are  but  one  divided  into 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


13 


[CHAP.  III.] 

three  parts.  The  first,  which  is  that  of  sense,  may  be 
likened  to  the  commencement  of  night  when  material 
objects  begin  to  be  invisible.  The  second,  of  faith,  may 
be  compared  to  mid-night,  which  is  utter  darkness. 
The  third  resembles  the  close  of  night,  which  is  God, 
when  the  dawn  of  day  is  at  hand. 


CHAPTER  III. 

The  first  cause  of  this  night,  the  privation  of  the  desire  in 

all  things. 

The  privation  of  all  pleasure  to  the  desire  in  all  things 
is  here  called  night.  For  as  night  is  nothing  else  but 
the  absence  of  light,  and,  consequently,  of  visible 
objects,  whereby  the  faculty  of  vision  remains  in  dark¬ 
ness  unemployed,  so  the  mortification  of  the  desires  is 
as  night  to  the  soul.  For  when  the  soul  denies  itself 
those  pleasures  which  outward  things  furnish  to  the 
desire,  it  is  as  it  were  in  darkness,  without  occupation. 
As  the  faculty  of  vision  is  nourished  by  light  and  fed  by 
visible  objects,  and  ceases  to  be  so  fed  when  the  light  is 
withdrawn,  so  the  soul  by  means  of  the  desire  feeds  on 
those  things  which,  corresponding  with  its  powers,  give 
it  pleasure  ;  but  when  the  desire  is  mortified,  it  derives 
no  more  pleasure  from  them,  and  thus,  so  far  as  the 
desire  is  concerned,  the  soul  abides  in  darkness,  without 
occupation. 

2.  This  may  be  illustrated  in  the  case  of  all  the 
faculties  of  the  soul.  When  the  soul  denies  itself  the 
pleasure  arising  from  all  that  gratifies  the  ear,  it 
remains,  so  far  as  the  faculty  of  hearing  is  concerned. 


14 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  I.J 


in  darkness,  without  occupation  ;  and  when  it  denies 
itself  in  all  that  is  pleasing  to  the  eye,  it  remains  in 
darkness,  so  far  as  it  relates  to  the  faculty  of  sight. 
The  same  may  be  said  of  the  other  senses,  for  he  who 
shall  deny  himself  all  satisfaction  derivable  from  objects 
of  sense,  mortifying  the  desire  thereof,  may  be  said  to  be 
in  a  state  which  is  as  night,  and  this  is  nothing  else  but 
an  entire  detachment  from  all  things. 

3.  Philosophers  say  that  the  soul  is  a  blank  when 
God  first  infuses  it  into  the  body,  without  knowledge  of 
any  kind  whatever,  and  incapable  of  receiving  know¬ 
ledge,  in  the  course  of  nature,  in  any  other  way  than 
through  the  senses.  Thus,  while  in  the  body,  the  soul 
is  like  a  man  in  a  dark  prison,  who  has  no  knowledge  of 
what  passes  without  beyond  what  he  can  learn  by  look¬ 
ing  through  the  window  of  his  cell,  and  who  if  he  did 
not  so  look  could  in  no  other  way  learn  anything  at  all. 
Thus,  then,  the  soul  cannot  naturally  know  anything 
but  through  the  senses,  which  are  the  windows  of  its 
cell.  If,  then,  the  impressions  and  communications  of 
sense  be  rejected  and  denied,  we  may  well  say  that  the 
soul  is  in  darkness  and  empty,  because  according  to  this 
opinion  there  is  no  other  natural  way  for  light  to  enter 
in.  It  is  true,  indeed,  that  we  cannot  help  hearing,  see¬ 
ing,  smelling,  tasting,  and  touching,  but  this  is  of  no 
moment,  and  does  not  trouble  the  soul,  when  the 
objects  of  sense  are  repelled,  any  more  than  if  we 
neither  heard  nor  saw  ;  for  he  who  shuts  his  eyes  is  as 
much  in  darkness  as  a  blind  man  who  cannot  see.  This 
is  the  meaning  of  the  Psalmist  when  he  said,  ‘  I  am 


OP  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


15 


[CftAP.  IV.] 

poor  and  in  labours  from  my  youth.’*  He  says  that  he 
is  poor,  though  it  is  certain  he  was  rich  ;  because  he 
had  not  set  his  mind  upon  riches,  he  was  really  like  a 
poor  man.  But  if  he  had  been  really  poor,  yet  not  in 
spirit,  he  would  not  have  been  truly  poor,  for  his  soul 
would  have  been  rich,  full  of  desires. 

4.  I  call  this  detachment  the  night  of  the  soul,  for  I 
am  not  speaking  here  of  the  absence  of  things — for 
absence  is  not  detachment,  if  the  desire  remains— but  of 
that  detachment  which  consists  in  suppressing  desire, 
and  avoiding  pleasure ;  it  is  this  that  sets  the  soul  free, 
even  though  possession  may  be  still  retained.  It  is  not 
the  things  of  this  world  that  occupy  or  injure  the  soul, 
for  they  do  not  enter  within,  but  rather  the  wish  for,  and 
desire  of  them  which  abide  within  it.  This  is  the  night 
of  the  sensual  part  of  the  soul.  And  now  I  proceed  to 
explain  how  the  soul  is  to  go  forth  from  its  house  in  the 
obscure  night  of  sense,  in  order  to  be  united  with  God. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

Tne  necessity  of  passing  truly  through  the  dark  night  of  sense, 
which  is  the  mortification  of  the  desire,  in  order  to  entei 
on  the  road  of  union  with  God. 

The  soul  must  of  necessity — if  we  would  attain  to  the 
divine  union  of  God— pass  through  the  dark  night  of 
mortification  of  the  desires,  and  self-denial  in  all  things. 
The  reason  is  this  ;  all  the  love  we  bestow  on  creatures 
is  in  the  eyes  of  God  mere  darkness,  and  while  we  are 
involved  therein,  the  soul  is  incapable  of  being 

*  Psal.  lxxxvii.  16. 


16 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  I.J 

enlightened  and  possessed  by  the  pure  and  simple  light  of 
God,  unless  we  first  cast  that  love  away.  Light  hath  no 
fellowship  with  darkness,  for  as  St.  John  saith,  ‘The 
light  shineth  in  darkness,  and  the  darkness  did  not 
comprehend  it.’*  Two  contrary  qualities,  as  the 
philosophers  say,  cannot  co-exist  in  the  same  subject. 
Darkness,  which  is  the  love  of  creatures,  and  light, 
which  is  God,  are  unlike  and  contrary  to  one  another, 
for  as  St.  Paul  saith  to  the  Corinthians,  “  What  fellow¬ 
ship  hath  light  with  darkness  ?  ’f  The  light  of  the 
divine  union  cannot,  therefore,  dwell  in  the  soul  if  these 
affections  are  not  cast  away. 

2.  The  affection  and  attachment  which  the  soul  feels 
for  the  creature  renders  the  soul  its  equal  and  its  like, 
and  the  greater  the  affection  the  greater  will  be  the  like¬ 
ness.  Love  begets  a  likeness  between  the  lover  and  the 
object  of  his  love,  and  so  the  Psalmist,  speaking  of  those 
who  set  their  heart  upon  idols,  says,  ‘  Let  them  that 
make  them  become  like  unto  them,  and  all  that  have 
confidence  in  them.’i  Thus,  he  who  loves  the  creature 
becomes  vile  as  that  creature  itself,  and  in  one  sense 
even  viler,  for  love  not  only  levels,  but  subjects  also  the 
lover  to  the  object  of  his  love. 

3.  He,  therefore,  who  loveth  anything  beside  God 
renders  his  soul  incapable  of  the  divine  union  and 
transformation  in  God,  for  the  vileness  of  the  creatu,  e  is 
further  removed  from  the  greatness  of  the  Creator  than 
darkness  is  from  light.  All  things  in  heaven  and  earth 
are  nothing  in  comparison  with  God.  ‘  I  beheld  the 

*  S.  JoLn  i.  5.  t  2  Cor.  vi.  14.  X  Ps.  cxiii.  8. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


17 


[char,  tv.] 

earth.’  saith  He,  ‘  and  lo,  it  was  void  and  a  thing  of 
nothing,  and  the  heavens,  and  there  was  no  light  in 
them.’*  The  earth,  ‘  void  and  nothing,’  signifies  that  the 
earth  and  all  it  contains  are  nothing,  and  the  heavens 
without  light,  that  all  the  lights  of  heaven,  in  com¬ 
parison  with  God,  are  perfect  darkness.  Thus  all 
created  things,  with  the  affections  bestowed  upon  them, 
are  nothing,  because  they  are  a  hindrance,  and  the 
privation  of  our  transformation  in  God,  just  as  darkness 
is  nothing,  and  less  than  nothing,  being  the  absence  of 
light.  And  as  he  who  is  in  darkness  comprehends  not 
the  light,  so  the  soul,  the  affections  of  which  are  given  to 
the  creature,  shall  never  comprehend  God.  Until  our 
soul  is  purged  of  these  affections  we  shall  not  possess 
God  in  this  life  in  the  pure  transformation  of  love,  nor  in 
the  life  to  come  in  the  beatific  vision.  To  make  this 
more  clear  I  shall  enter  into  some  particulars. 

4.  The  whole  creation,  compared  with  the  infinite 
being  of  God,  is  nothing ;  and  so  the  soul,  the  affections 
of  which  are  set  on  created  things,  is  nothing,  and  even 
less  than  nothing  before  God,  because  love  begets 
equality  and  likeness,  and  even  inferiority  to  the  object 
beloved.  Such  a  soul,  therefore,  cannot  by  any  possi¬ 
bility  be  united  to  the  infinite  being  of  God,  because  that 
which  is  not  can  have  no  communion  with  that  which  is. 
All  the  beauty  of  the  creation,  in  comparison  with  the 
infinite  beauty  of  God,  is  supreme  deformity,  for  ‘  grace 
is  deceitful  and  beauty  is  vain,’f  and  so  the  soul,  the 
affections  of  which  are  set  on  the  beauty  of  any  created 
thing  whatever,  shows  before  God  nothing  but  deformity 
C  *  Jer.  iv.  23.  t  Prov.  xxxi.  30. 


18 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  T.] 

and  can  never  be  transformed  in  beauty,  which  is  God, 
because  deformity  cannot  attain  unto  beauty.  All  the 
grace  and  comeliness  of  creation,  compared  with  the 
grace  of  God,  is  supreme  disgrace  and  supreme  disfavour, 
and  that  soul,  therefere,  which  is  captivated  by  the  grace 
and  comeliness  of  created  things  is  in  the  eyes  of  God  in 
disfavour  and  disgrace,  incapable  of  the  infinite  grace 
and  beauty,  for  that  which  is  ill-favoured  is  far  removed 
from  that  which  is  infinitely  gracious. 

5.  All  the  goodness  of  the  whole  world  together,  in 
comparison  with  the  infinite  goodness  of  God,  is  wicked¬ 
ness  rather  than  goodness,  for  ‘  none  is  good  but  only 
God/*  and  that  soul  is,  therefore,  wicked  before  God, 
the  affections  of  which  are  set  on  the  things  of  this 
world ;  and  as  wickedness  can  have  no  fellowship  with 
goodness,  so  that  soul  cannot  be  united  in  perfect  union 
with  God,  who  is  the  supreme  goodness. 

6.  All  the  wisdom  of  the  world,  and  all  human 
cunning,  compared  with  the  infinite  wisdom  of  God,  is 
simple  and  supreme  ignorance,  1  for  the  wisdom  of  this 
world  is  foolishness  with  God.’  t  He,  therefore,  who 
shall  labour  to  attain  to  union  with  the  wisdom  of  God, 
in  reliance  on  his  own  wisdom  and  skill,  is  supremely 
ignorant,  and  infinitely  distant  therefrom  :  for  ignorance 
knoweth  not  what  wisdom  is.  They  who  consider  them¬ 
selves  gifted  with  knowledge  are  in  the  eyes  of  God  most 
ignorant,  ‘professing  themselves  to  be  wise,  they  become 
fools.’*  They  alone  attain  to  the  divine  wisdom  who, 
like  children  and  ignorant  ones,  lay  aside  their  own 

*  S.  Luke  xviii.  19.  t  1  Cor.  iii.  19.  +  Rom.  i.  22. 


19 


[CHAP.  IV.]  OF.  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

wisdom,  and  serve  God  in  love.  This  is  the  wisdom  to 
which  St.  Paul  refers,  saying,  ‘  Let  no  man  deceive 
himself ;  if  any  man  among  you  seem  to  be  wise  in  this 
world,  let  him  become  a  fool  that  he  may  be  wise.  For 
the  Avisdom  of  this  world  is  foolishness  with  God.’* 
Ignorance,  therefore,  rather  than  knowledge,  becomes 
that  soul  which  strives  after  union  with  the  wisdom  ot 
God. 

7.  All  the  liberty  and  power  of  the  world,  compared 
with  the  power  and  liberty  of  the  Spirit  of  God,  is  but 
supreme  slavery,  wretchedness,  and  captivity ;  and  so  he 
who  loves  superiority  and  dignities,  and  the  indulgence 
of  his  desires,  stands  before  God,  not  as  a  son  who  is 
free,  but  as  a  person  of  mean  condition,  the  slave  of  his 
passions,  because  he  submits  not  to  the  holy  teaching, 
which  saith,  ‘  He  that  is  the  greater  among  you,  let  him 
become  as  the  younger."  f  Such  an  one  will  never 
attain  to  the  true  liberty  of  spirit  attainable  in  the 
divine  union,  because  slavery  has  no  fellowship  with 
liberty,  liberty  dwelleth  not  in  a  heart  subject  to  desires, 
for  that  heart  is  in  captivity,  but  in  that  which  is  free, 
the  heart  of  a  son.  It  was  for  this  reason  that  Sara  said 
unto  Abraham  :  ‘  Cast  out  this  handmaid  and  her  son, 
for  the  son  of  the  handmaid  shall  not  be  heir  with  my 
son  Isaac.’  + 

8.  All  the  sweetness  and  all  the  pleasures  which  all 
the  things  of  this  world  furnish  to  the  will  are,  in  com¬ 
parison  with  the  sweetness  and  pleasure  which  is  God, 
supreme  pain,  torment,  and  bitterness.  He,  therefore, 

*  I  Cor.  iii.  iS,  19.  t  S.  Luke  xxii.  26.  T  Gen.  xxi  10. 

C2 


20 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  I.] 

who  shall  set  his  heart  upon  them  is,  in  the  eyes  of  God, 
worthy  of  pain,  torment,  and  bitterness,  and  can  never 
attain  to  those  delights  with  which  the  divine  union 
abounds. 

9.  All  the  riches  and  glory  of  the  whole  creation  com¬ 
pared  with  the  true  riches,  which  is  God,  is  supreme 
poverty  and  meanness,  and  he  who  sets  his  heart  upon 
them  is,  in  God’s  sight,  supremely  poor  and  mean,  and 
can  never  attain  to  the  blessed  estate  of  riches  and  glory, 
which  is  the  transformation  of  the  soul  in  God  ;  for  that 
which  is  mean  and  poor  is  infinitely  distant  from  that 
which  is  supremely  rich  and  glorious. 

10.  For  this  cause,  then,  the  divine  wisdom  bewails 
men  ;  namely,  because  they  make  themselves  loathsome, 
mean,  wretched,  and  poor,  through  their  love  for  that 
which  is  beautiful,  rich,  and  noble  in  the  eyes  of  the 
world.  ‘  O  men,  to  you  I  cry,  and  my  voice  is  to  the 
sons  of  men.  O  little  ones,  understand  subtlety,  and  ye 
unwise  mark.  Hear,  for  I  will  speak  of  great  things. 
.  .  .  With  me  are  riches  and  glory,  glorious  riches  and 
justice.  For  my  fruit  is  better  than  gold  and  precious 
stone,  and  my  blossoms  than  chosen  silver.  I  walk  in 
the  way  of  justice,  in  the  midst  of  the  paths  of  judgment, 
that  I  may  enrich  them  that*love  me,  and  may  replenish 
their  treasures.’  *  Here  God  addresses  Himself  to  those 
who  set  their  affections  on  the  things  of  this  world ;  He 
calls  them  little  ones,  because  they  make  themselves 
little,  like  the  object  of  their  love.  He  bids  them 
‘understand  subtlety,’  and  ‘  mark,’  because  He  is  speak¬ 
ing  of  great  things,  and  not  of  little  things,  such  as  they 

*  Prov.  viii.  4-6,  1 8-21. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


21 


[CHAP.  V.] 

are.  He  tells  them  that  great  riches  and  glory,  objects 
of  their  love,  are  with  Him  and  in  Him,  and  not  where 
they  think  they  shall  find  them.  ‘  Glorious  riches  and 
justice  ’  are  with  wisdom.  For  though  the  things  of  this 
world  may  seem  to  men  to  be  something,  yet  let  them 
take  notice,  the  things  of  God  are  better.  The  fruit  ot 
wisdom  is  better  than  gold  and  precious  stones,  and  that 
which  wisdom  produces  in  the  soul  is  preferable  to  the 
chosen  silver  which  they  love.  This  is  applicable  to 
every  kind  of  affection  to  which  we  are  liable  in  this  life. 

CHAPTER  V. 

Continuation  of  the  same  subject.  Proofs  from  Scripture  of  the 
necessity  of  drawing  near  unto  God  through  the  dark 
night  of  mortified  desires. 

I  HAVE  novv  explained  how  great  is  the  distance  between 
created  things  and  God,  and  how  souls  which  set  their 
affections  thereon  are  equally  distant  from  Him,  because 
—  as  I  have  said*  love  begets  equality  and  likeness. 
This  was  well  understood  by  S.  Augustine  when,  con¬ 
sidering  his  own  inclination  towards  the  creature,  he 
thus  spoke  unto  God  :  ‘  Miserable  man  that  I  am,  what 
fellowship  hath  my  perverseness  with  Thy  uprightness  ? 
Thou  art  truly  good,  I  wicked;  Thou  art  full  of  com¬ 
passion,  I  am  hard  of  heart;  Thou  art  holy,  I  am 
miserable  ;  Thou  art  just,  I  am  unjust ;  Thou  art  light, 
I  am  darkness ;  Thou  art  life,  and  I  am  death  ;  Thou  art 
medicine,  I  am  sick ;  Thou  art  sovereign  truth,  and  I 
utter  vanity.’ f  This  the  saint  said  of  subjection  to 
Created  things. 

t  Soliloq.  c.  ii.  Opp.  Ed.  Ben.  tom.  vi.  App.  p.  86. 

*  Ch.  iv. 


22 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  I.] 

2.  It  is,  therefore,  supreme  ignorance  for  any  one  to 
think  that  he  can  ever  attain  to  the  high  estate  of  union 
with  God  before  he  casts  away  from  him  the  desire  of 
natural  things,  and  of  supernatural  also,  so  far  as  it  con¬ 
cerns  self-love,  because  the  distance  between  them  and 
that  which  takes  place  in  the  state  of  pure  transformation 
in  God  is  the  very  greatest.  For  Christ  our  Lord  hath 
said,  instructing  us  in  this  way,  ‘  Every  one  of  you  that 
doth  not  renounce  all  that  he  possesseth,  cannot  be  my 
disciple.’*  This  is  plain,  for  the  doctrine  of  Christ  which 
He  came  into  the  world  to  teach,  is  contempt  of  all 
things,  that  we  may  thereby  have  power  to  receive  the 
reward  of  the  Spirit  of  God.  For  he  who  does  not  with¬ 
draw  himself  from  the  things  of  the  world,  is  not  qualified 
to  receive  the  Spirit  of  God  in  the  pure  transformation. 

3.  This  truth  is  foreshadowed  in  the  book  of  Exodus, f 
where  we  read  that  God  did  not  give  the  manna  to  the 
people  of  Israel  till  the  corn  they  had  brought  from 
Egypt  had  failed  them,  thereby  showing  us  that  every¬ 
thing  must  be  given  up,  for  the  bread  of  angels  is  not 
given  to,  neither  is  it  meant  for,  that  palate  which  is 
pleased  with  the  bread  of  man.  He  who  feeds  on 
strange  meats,  and  is  delighted  therewith,  not  only  dis¬ 
qualifies  himself  for  the  reception  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  but 
also  provokes  God  to  anger  exceedingly,  as  all  do  who, 
while  they  seek  spiritual  food,  are  not  content  with  God 
only,  but  intermingle  therewith  carnal  and  earthly  satis¬ 
factions.  This  appears  from  the  same  history,  where  it 
is  said  the  people  cried,  ‘Who  will  give  us  flesh  to  eat  ?’+ 
They  were  not  satisfied  with  food  so  pure,  for  they 

*  S.  Luke  xiv.  33.  +  Ex.  xvi.  4.  J  Num.  xi.  4. 


23 


[CHAP.  V.]  of  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

desired  and  demanded  the  flesh  of  beasts.  God  was 
grievously  offended  because  they  would  mingle  flesh,  so 
vile  and  coarse,  with  the  pure  and  heavenly  bread  which, 
though  always  the  same,  had  in  it  ‘  the  sweetness  of 
every  taste,’*  for,  as  David  saith,  the  wrath  of  God  in  fire 
from  heaven  consumed  many  thousands  of  them,  while 
‘  their  meat  was  in  their  mouth  the  wrath  of  God  came 
upon  them,  and  He  slew  the  fat  ones  amongst  them,  and 
brought  down  the  chosen  men  of  Israel. ’t  God  regarded 
it  as  an  evil  wish  to  desire  other  food  when  He  was 
giving  them  the  bread  of  heaven. 

4.  Oh,  would  that  spiritual  persons  knew  how  they  are 
losing  the  good  things  of  the  Spirit,  abundantly  fur¬ 
nished,  because  they  will  not  raise  up  their  desires  above 
trifles,  and  how  they  might  have  the  sweetness  of  all 
things  in  the  pure  food  of  the  Spirit  if  they  would  only 
forego  them.  But  as  they  will  not,  so  they  shall  not 
have  such  sweetness.  The  people  of  Israel  perceived 
not  the  sweetness  of  every  taste  in  the  manna,  though  it 
was  there,  because  they  would  not  limit  their  desires  to 
it  alone.  The  sweetness  and  strength  of  the  manna  was 
not  for  them,  not  because  it  was  not  there,  but  because 
they  longed  for  other  meats  beside  it.  He  who  loves 
any  other  thing  with  God  makes  light  of  Him,  because 
he  puts  into  the  balance  with  Him  that  which  is  infinitely 
beneath  Him.  We  know  by  experience  that  the  will, 
when  set  on  a  particular  object,  magnifies  it  above  all 
others,  if  it  has  no  pleasure  in  them,  though  they  may  be 
of  greater  importance  than  what  it  desires.  And  if  it 
should  desire  two  things  together,  it  does  wrong  to  the 

f  Ps.  Ixxvii.  30,  31. 


*  Wisd.  xvi.  20. 


24  THE  ASCENT  [BOOK  I.] 

chief  of  the  two,  because  it  establishes  an  unjust  equality 
between  them.  There  is  nothing  in  the  whole  world  to 
be  compared  with  God;  and,  therefore,  he  who  loves 
anything  together  with  Him,  wrongs  Him.  And  if  this 
be  true,  what  does  he  do  who  loves  anything  more  than 
God  ? 

5.  This  truth  is  set  before  us  in  the  book  of  Exodus. 
When  God  commanded  Moses  to  go  up  into  mount 
Sinai,  He  bade  him  go  up  alone ;  the  children  of  Israel 
were  to  remain  below,  and  even  the  cattle  were  not  to 
feed  in  sight  of  the  mountain.  ‘Thou  shalt  stand  with 
Me  on  the  top  of  the  mount.  Let  no  man  go  up  with 
thee,  and  let  not  any  man  be  seen  throughout  all  the 
mount :  neither  let  the  oxen  nor  the  sheep  feed  over 
against  it.’*  He,  therefore,  that  will  go  up  into  the 
mount  of  perfection  and  hold  communion  with  God, 
must  not  only  abandon  everything,  but  restrain  even  his 
desires,  the  sheep  and  the  cattle  from  feeding  in  sight  of 
the  mount — that  is,  upon  anything  which  is  not  simply 
God,  in  Whom,  that  is,  in  the  state  of  perfection,  every 
desire  must  cease.  This  journey  or  ascent  must  there¬ 
fore  be  a  perpetual  struggle  with  our  desires  to  make 
them  cease,  and  the  more  earnest  we  are  the  sooner  shall 

we  reach  the  summit.  But  until  the  desires  cease  we 
% 

can  never  reach  it,  notwithstanding  our  many  virtues,  for 
virtue  is  not  perfectly  acquired  before  our  souls  are 
empty,  detached,  and  purified  from  all  desire. 

6.  Of  this  truth  we  have  a  lively  figure  in  the  history 
of  the  patriarch  Jacob.  When  he  was  on  his  way  to 
Bethel  to  build  an  altar  for  sacrifice  unto  God,  he  com- 

*  Ex.  xxxiv.  2,  3. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


25 


[chap.  V.] 

manded  his  household  the  observance  of  three  things : 
the  casting  away  of  strange  gods,  self-purification,  and 
the  changing  of  their  garments.  ‘Jacob  having  called 
together  all  his  household,  said,  cast  away  the  strange 
gods  that  are  among  you,  and  be  cleansed  and  change 
your  garments.’*  He,  therefore,,  who  will  ascend  to  the 
mount  of  perfection,  to  build  an  altar  there,  whereon  to 
offer  unto  God  the  sacrifice  of  pure  love,  praise,  and 
adoration,  must  first  of  all  perfectly  fulfil  the  three  com¬ 
mandments  of  Jacob.  He  must  cast  away  the  strange 
gods,  the  earthly  affections  and  attachments.  He  must 
purify  himself  from  the  impressions  which  the  desires 
have  made  on  the  soul,  in  the  obscure  night  of  sense, 
denying  them  and  doing  penance  duly  for  them,  and,  in 
the  third  place,  he  must  change  his  garments.  This  God 
himself  will  do  during  the  observance  of  the  first  two 
commandments;  He  will  change  them  from  old  into 
new,  by  infusing  into  the  soul  a  new  understanding  of 
God  in  God,  the  human  understanding  being  set 
aside,  and  a  new  love  of  God  in  God,  the  will  being 
detached  from  its  old  desires  and  human  satisfactions, 
by  bringing  the  soul  into  a  state  of  new  knowledge 
and  of  deep  delight,  all  other  knowledge  and  old 
imaginings  being  cast  away ;  and,  finally,  by  causing 
that  which  is  of  the  old  man  to  cease  which  is  our 
natural  aptitude,  and  investing  us  with  a  new  super¬ 
natural  aptitude,  corresponding  with  the  powers  of 
the  soul,  so  that  all  that  is  human  in  the  action  ot 
the  soul  may  become  divine.  This  is  the  object  gained 
in  the  state  of  union,  in  which  the  soul  is  nothing  else 


Gen.  xxxv.  z< 


THE  ASCENT 


26 


[book  I.] 


but  an  altar  of  God  whereon  the  sacrifice  of  praise  and 
love  is  offered,  and  where  He  dwells  alone. 

7.  This  is  the  reason  why,  under  the  old  law,  the  altar 
of  sacrifice  was  to  be  hollow  within.  ‘  Thou  shalt  not 
make  it  solid,  but  empty  and  hollow  in  the  inside.’*  It 
is  the  will  of  God  that  the  soul  should  be  empty  of  all 
created  things,  so  that  it  may  become  a  fitting  altar  of 
His  Majesty.  He  would  not  endure  strange  fires  on  the 
altar,  nor  that  His  own  should  fail.  ‘Nadab  and  Abiu, 
the  sons  of  Aaron,  taking  their  censers,  put  fire  therein, 
and  incense  on  it,  offering  before  the  Lord  strange  fire : 
which  was  not  commanded  them,  and  fire  coming  out 
from  the  Lord  destroyed  them,  and  they  died  before  the 
Lord.’f  Because  Nadab  and  Abiu,  sons  of  Aaron  the 
high  priest,  offered  strange  fire  on  the  altar,  God  in  his 
anger  slew  them  before  it.  Thai  soul,  therefore,  which 
would  become  a  fitting  altar,  must  not  be  without  the 
love  of  God,  nor  mingle  therewith  any  other  and  strange 
love.  God  will  never  dwell  there  where  aught  is  present 
beside  Himself.  Thus  we  read  in  the  first  book  of  the 
Kings,  that  when  the  Philistines  took  the  ark  of  God 
and  brought  it  into  the  temple  of  Dagon,  their  idol  was 
thrown  to  the  ground,  and  at  last  broken  to  pieces.  + 

8.  One  desire  only  doth  God  allow,  and  suffer,  in  His 
presence,  that  of  perfectly  observing  His  law,  and  of 
carrying  the  cross  of  Christ.  We  do  not  read  in  the 
divine  writings  that  He  commanded  anything  except  the 
book  of  the  law,  to  be  laid  up  with  the  ark  where  the 
manna  was  preserved.— ‘Take  this  book,  and  put  it  in 
the  side  of  the  ark  of  the  covenant  of  the  Lord  your 

*  Ex.  xxvii.  8.  T  Levit.  x.  i  2,  t  i  Kings  v.  i  5. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


27 


[CHAP.  VI.] 


God’*— and  the  rod  of  Aaron,  type  of  the  cross.  ‘Take 
back  the  rod  of  Aaron  into  the  tabernacle  of  the  testi¬ 
mony.’  f  That  soul  which  has  no  other  aim  than  the 
perfect  observance  of  the  law  of  God,  and  the  carrying  of 
the  cross  of  Christ,  will  be  a  true  ark  containing  the  true 
manna,  which  is  God. 


CHAPTER  VI. 

Two  great  evils  of  the  desires  :  negative  and  positive. 

Proofs  from  Scripture. 

To  make  this  matter  more  clear,  and  perfectly  under¬ 
stood,  it  is  advisable  here  to  explain  how  the  desires 
inflict  two  great  evils  on  the  soul.  These  evils  are,  the 
privation  of  the  Spirit  of  God,  and  the  other,  fatigue, 
torture,  darkness,  defilement,  and  weakness  of  that  soul 
which  indulges  them.  ‘  My  people  have  done  two  evils  : 
they  have  forsaken  Me,  the  fountain  of  living  water,  and 
have  digged  to  themselves  cisterns,  broken  cisterns,  that 
can  hold  no  water.’  J  These  two  evils  flow  from  one 
single  act  of  desire ;  for  it  is  clear  that  the  instant  we  set 
our  affections  upon  any  one  created  thing,  our  capacity 
for  union  with  God  is  diminished  in  proportion  to  the 
intensity  of  that  act  of  affection.  For,  as  I  said  before, § 
two  contrary  qualities  cannot  co-exist  in  the  same  sub¬ 
ject  ;  the  love  of  God  and  the  love  of  the  creature  are 
contrary,  the  one  to  the  other,  and  so  cannot  dwell 
together  in  the  same  heart.  What  connection  is  there 


*  Deut.  xxxi.  26  ;  Ex.  xvi.  33. 
t  Jerem.  ii.  13. 


+  Numb.  xvii.  IO. 
§  Ch.  iv. 


THE  ASCENT 


28 


[BOOK  I.] 


between  the  creature  and  the  Creator  ?  Between  the 
sensual  and  the  spiritual  ?  The  seen  and  the  unseen  ? 
The  temporal  and  the  eternal  ?  Between  the  heavenly- 
food,  pure  and  spiritual,  and  the  food  of  the  flesh,  simply 
sensual  ?  Between  the  poverty  of  Christ  and  selfish 
attachments  ?  As  in  natural  generation,  no  new  form 
results  without  the  corruption  of  the  one  previously 
existing — for  this  obstructs  the  former  by  reason  of  the 
contrariety  between  them — so  while  our  souis  are  under 
the  dominion  of  the  sensual  and  animal  spirit,  the  pure 
and  heavenly  spirit  can  never  enter  within  them. 

2.  This  explains  those  words  of  our  Lord,  ‘  It  is  not 
good  to  take  the  bread  of  children,  and  to  cast  it  to 
the  dogs  ;  ’  *  and  ‘  Give  not  that  which  is  holy  to  dogs.’  f 
Our  Lord  in  these  words  compares  those  who,  renounc¬ 
ing  all  earthly  desires,  prepare  themselves  in  simplicity 
for  the  graces  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  with  the  children  of 
God,  and  those  who  satisfy  their  desires  in  earthly 
things,  with  dogs:  children  are  admitted  to  the  Father’s 
table,  that  is,  to  be  nourished  by  the  Spirit,  but  only  the 
crumbs  which  fall  from  it  are  given  to  the  dogs.  All 
created  things  are  but  the  crumbs  which  fall  from  the 
table  of  God.  Thus  they  who  go  about  feeding  on  the 
creature  are  rightly  called  dogs  ;  the  children’s  bread  is 
withheld  from  such,  because  they  will  not  rise  from  the 
crumbs  of  the  creature  to  the  table  of  the  uncreated 
Spirit  of  their  Father.  These  are  always  hungry  like 
dogs,  and  justly  so,  because  crumbs  excite  the  appetite 
rather  than  appease  hunger.  These  are  they  of  whom  it 
is  written,  ‘  They  shall  suffer  hunger  like  dogs ;  and  shall 
*  S.  Matt.  xv.  26.  t  lb.  vii.  6. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


29 


[chap,  vt.] 

go  round  about  the  city — and  shall  murmur  if  they  be 
not  filled.’  *  They  who  gratify  their  desires  are  always 
morose  and  discontented,  like  hungry  persons  :  for 
what  is  there  in  common  between  the  hunger  which  the 
creature  occasions,  and  the  fulness  which  proceeds  from 
the  Spirit  of  God  ?  The  fulness  of  God  cannot  enter  into 
the  soul  before  we  drive  away  the  hunger  of  desire,  for 
two  contrary  qualities,  such  as  hunger  and  fulness, 
cannot  dwell  together  in  the  same  subject.  We  may  see 
from  this  how  much  greater  is  the  work  of  God  in 
purifying  the  soul  from  these  contrarieties,  than  it  was 
when  He  first  created  it  out  of  nothing.  For  these 
rebellious  desires  and  opposing  affections  seem  to  resist 
God  more  than  nothing :  that  which  is  not,  cannot  resist 
His  Majesty,  but  not  so  the  love  of  the  creature.  Let 
this  suffice  for  the  first  great  evil  which  desires  inflict  on 
the  soul,  namely,  resistance  to  the  Spirit  of  God. 

3.  Let  us  now  proceed  to  the  second,  which  is  mani¬ 
fold  in  its  operations.  The  desires  fatigue,  torment, 
darken,  defile,  and  weaken  the  soul.  Of  these  five  forms 
of  evil,  I  shall  discuss  each  separately.  As  to  the  first, 
it  is  evident  that  the  desires  weary  the  soul,  because 
they  resemble  little  children,  restless  and  dissatisfied, 
who  always  begging  of  their  mother,  now  one  thing, 
now  another,  are  never  content.  As  one  given  to  covet¬ 
ousness  fatigues  himself  digging  for  gold,  so  the  soul 
wearies  itself  in  the  pursuit  of  those  things  which  the 
desires  demand,  and  though  we  may  obtain  them,  yet 
the  end  is  weariness,  because  we  are  never  satisfied. 
We  have  recourse  to  broken  cisterns,  which  can  hold  no 

*  Ps.  lviii.  15,  16. 


30 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  I.] 

water  to  quench  our  thirst,  as  it  is  written,  ‘Faint  with 
thirst  and  his  soul  is  empty.’  *  The  soul  which  yields  to 
its  desires,  is  weary  and  faint,  like  one  ill  of  a  burning 
fever,  never  at  rest,  and  whose  thirst  increases  while  the 
fever  lasts.  It  is  written  in  the  book  of  Job,  ‘When  he 
shall  be  filled,  he  shall  be  straitened,  he  shall  burn,  and 
every  sorrow  shall  fall  upon  him.’  f  Thus  is  it  with  the 
soul,  wearied  and  afflicted  by  the  desires;  they  wound  it, 
agitate  and  disturb  it,  as  wind  does  water,  harassing  it, 
so  that  it  can  never  repose  on  anything,  or  in  any 
place. 

4.  Of  such  souls  is  it  written,  ‘  The  wicked  are  like  the 
raging  sea  which  cannot  rest.’J  The  heart  of  the  wicked 
is  like  the  raging  sea,  and  he  is  wicked  who  does  not 
subdue  his  desires.  That  soul  which  seeks  to  satisfy 
them  wearies  and  torments  itself,  and  is  like  one  who,  in 
the  pains  of  hunger,  opens  his  mouth  to  be  filled  with 
the  wind,  and  who,  instead  of  being  satisfied  therewith, 
becomes  still  more  hungry,  for  wind  is  not  his  meat  and 
drink.  Of  such  it  is  written,  ‘  In  the  desire  of  his  heart, 
he  snuffed  up  the  wind  of  his  love,’  §  and  again  warning 
the  soul  against  the  increasing  dryness  towards  which  it 
tends .  ‘  Keep  thy  foot,'  that  is  thy  thoughts,  ‘  from  being 
bare,  and  thy  throat  from  thirst,’  || — that  is,  thy  will  from 
the  gratification  of  the  desire  which  is  the  occasion  of 
greater  dryness.  As  the  ambitious  man  is  wearied  in 
the  day  of  disappointed  expectations,  so  the  soul  with,  its 
desires  and  their  fulfilment,  for  they  make  it  more  empty 
and  hungry  than  it  was  before.  The  desires  are,  as  it  is 

*  Is.  xxix,  8.  t  Job.  xx.  22. 

+  Is.  lvii.  20.  §  Jerem.  ii.  24.  ||  Jerem.  ii.  25. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


31 


[chap.  VII.] 

commonly  said,  like  fire  which  burns  when  supplied  with 
fuel,  but  which,  when  the  fuel  is  consumed,  immediately 
dies.  In  truth,  the  desire  is  in  a  much  worse  condition : 
the  fire  is  quenched  when  the  fuel  fails,  but  the  desire 
ceases  not  with  the  matter  on  which  it  fed  while  it  raged, 
even  though  that  be  utterly  consumed ;  for  instead  of 
ceasing,  like  fire  when  the  fuel  is  burnt  out,  the  desire 
pines  away  in  weariness,  for  hunger  is  increased,  and 
food  diminished. 

5.  A  soul  in  this  condition  is  thus  described  by  the 
prophet,  ‘  He  shall  turn  to  the  right  hand,  and  shall  be 
hungry,  and  shall  eat  on  the  left  hand,  and  shall  not  be 
filled.’*  They  who  mortify  not  their  desires  are  justly 
punished  with  hunger  when  they  ‘turn  to  the  right 
hand,’  that  is,  when  they  swerve  from  the  way  of  God ; 
for  they  do  not  deserve  the  fulness  of  His  sweet  Spirit, 
and  justly  also  shall  they  ‘  not  be  filled,’  when  they  ‘  eat 
on  the  left  hand,’  that  is,  when  they  satisfy  their  desire 
with  created  things ;  for  then  abandoning  that  which 
can  alone  satisfy  them  they  feed  on  that  which  is  the 
source  of  greater  hunger.  Thus,  then,  is  it  clear  that 
the  desires  weary  and  fatigue  the  soul. 


CHAPTER  VII. 

The  desires  torment  the  soul.  Proofs  and  illustrations. 

The  second  positive  evil  which  the  desires  inflict  is  a 
certain  torment  and  affliction  of  soul,  so  that  he  who 
suffers  therefrom  is  like  one  in  torture,  bound  with 
chains,  finding  no  rest  until  released.  ‘  The  cords  of  my 


Is.  ix.  20. 


32 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  I.  [ 


sins,’  that  is,  my  desires,  saith  the  Psalmist,  ‘have  encom¬ 
passed  me.’*  As  a  man  who  lies  naked  amid  thorns  ana 
briars,  so  is  the  soul  in  the  power  of  its  desires  ;  for  they 
pierce,  torture,  and  tear  it  painfully,  as  it  is  written, 

‘  They  surrounded  me  lixe  bees,  and  they  burned  like 
fire  among'  thorns.’f  The  desires,  which  are  as  thorns, 
increase  the  fire  of  affliction  and  trouble.  As  the 
husbandman,  greedy  of  the  harvest,  goads  the  oxen  at 
the  plough,  so  concupiscence  goads  the  soul  harnessed 
to  its  desires,  till  it  shall  obtain  its  will.  Such  was  the 
desire  of  Dalila  to  know  the  secret  of  the  strength  of 
Samson  ;  she  ‘  pressed  him— giving  him  no  time  to  rest,’ 
so  that  ‘  his  soul  fainted  away,  and  was  wearied  even 
unto  death. ’+ 

2.  The  desire  tortures  the  soul  in  proportion  to  its 
intensity,  so  that  the  pain  equals  the  desires,  and  the 
more  numerous  the  desires  the  greater  the  pain  :  for  the 
words  which  the  apostle  heard  are  fulfilled  even  in  this 
life.  ‘  As  much  as  she  hath  glorified  herself,  and  lived 
in  delicacies,  so  much  torment  and  sorrow  give  ye  to 
her.’§  As  he  is  tormented  who  falls  into  the  hands  of 
his  enemies,  so  is  the  soul  carried  away  by  its  desires. 
This  truth  is  foreshadowed  in  the  history  of  Samson, 
who  was  once  so  strong  and  free,  the  judge  of  Israel. 
But  when  he  had  fallen  into  the  hands  of  his  enemies, 
they  robbed  him  of  his  great  strength,  plucked  out  his 
eyes,  imprisoned  him  in  a  mill,  and  ‘  made  him  grind,’ 
torturing  and  afflicting  him.  So  is  it  with  the  soul, 
whose  enemies,  its  own  desires,  live  and  triumph :  their 

*  Ps.  cxviii.  6l.  f  lb.  cxvii.  12. 

+  Judg.  xvi.  16.  §  Apoc.  xviii.  7. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


33 


fCHAP.  VII.] 

first  act  is  to  weaken  and  blind  the  soul,  then  to  torment 
it,  imprisoning  it  in  the  mill  of  concupiscence,  and  the 
cords  that  bind  it  are  its  own  desires  themselves. 

3.  God,  therefore,  compassionating  those  who  with  so 
much  toil  and  cost,  go  about  to  satisfy  the  hunger  and 
thirst  of  their  desires  in  created  things,  thus  speaks  to 
them  by  the  mouth  of  His  prophet :  ‘  All  you  that  thirst  ’ 
and  desire  ‘  come  to  the  waters,  and  you  that  have  no 
money,’  self-will,  ‘  make  haste,  buy  and  eat,  come,  buy 
wine  and  milk,’  peace  and  spiritual  sweetness,  ‘  without 
money,’  of  self-will,  and  ‘without  price,’  without  that 
labour  which  your  desires  demand.  ‘  Why  do  you  spend 
money  ’  of  self-will  ‘  for  that  which  is  not  bread,’  that  is, 
the  Spirit  of  God,  and  the  ‘  labour  ’  of  your  desires  ‘  for 
that  which  doth  not  satisfy  you  ?  ’  ‘  Hearken  diligently 
unto  Me  and  eat  that  which  is  good,’  and  which  you 
desire,  ‘and  your  soul  shall  be  delighted  in  fatness.’* 
We  attain  to  this  fatness  when  we  abandon  all  created 
satisfactions,  for  pain  and  sorrow  flow  from  the  creature, 
and  refreshment  from  the  Spirit  of  God. 

4.  ‘  Come  to  Me,’  saith  our  Lord,  ‘  all  you  that  labour 
and  are  burdened,  and  I  will  refresh  you.’f  All  you  who 
are  tormented  and  afflicted,  labouring  beneath  the  burden 
of  anxiety  and  desire,  cast  it  aside,  by  coming  unto  Me, 
and  I  will  refresh  you ;  and  your  s6uls  shall  find  that 
rest  of  which  your  desires  rob  you,  for,  as  the  Psalmist 
saith,  they  ‘  as  a  heavy  burden  are  become  heavy  upon 
Me.’J 


Is.  lv.  r,  2. 
u 


*t  S.  Matt,  xi  28. 


t  Ps.  xxxvii  5. 


34 


rHE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  I.J 


CHAPTER  VIII. 

The  desires  darken  the  soul.  Proofs  and  illustrations. 

The  third  evil  which  the  desires  inflict  is  darkness  and 
blindness  of  soul.  For  as  vapours  darken  the  air,  and 
hide  the  light  of  the  sun,  or  as  a  stained  mirror  cannot 
clearly  receive  an  image,  or  as  muddy  water  cannot 
distinctly  reflect  his  face  who  looks  into  it,  so  the  soul, 
stained  by  its  desires,  is  intellectually  blind,  so  that 
neither  the  understanding  itself  nor  the  sun  of  natural 
reason,  nor  that  of  the  supernatural  wisdom  of  God,  can 
ir  form  and  enlighten  it.  To  this  the  Psalmist  referred 
when  he  said,  ‘  My  iniquities  have  overtaken  me,  and  I 
was  not  able  to  see.’*  And  thus,  while  the  soul  is  intel¬ 
lectually  blind,  the  will  becomes  torpid,  the  memory  fails, 
and  every  lawful  function  is  disordered.  These  faculties 
depend  on  the  intellect,  and  it  is  therefore  clear  that, 
when  the  intellect  is  embarrassed,  they  must  all  be 
thrown  into  confusion  and  disorder.  ‘  My  soul,’  says  the 
Psalmist,  ‘  is  troubled  exceedingly,’!  that  is,  all  my 
faculties  are  in  disorder ;  for,  as  I  have  said,  the  intellect 
in  this  state  cannot  receive  the  illumination  of  the  divine 
wisdom,  just  as  the  obscured  air  cannot  reflect  the  bright¬ 
ness  of  the  sun.  .The  will  cannot  embrace  God  in  pure 
love,  just  as  the  stained  mirror  cannot  represent  an 
object  placed  before  it.  The  memory  overclouded  by 
desires  cannot  calmly  dwell  on  the  image  of  God,  just  as 
muddy  water  cannot  reflect  the  face  of  him  who  looks 
into  it. 


Ts.  xxxix.  13. 


T  lb.  vi.  4. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


35 


[chap,  viii.] 

2.  The  desire  also  blinds  and  darkens  the  soul,  for  the 
desire,  as  such,  is  blind  and  unreasonable,  and  reason  is 
that  which  ever  guides  the  soul  aright  in  its  several  acts. 
Hence  it  is  that  the  soul  becomes  blind  whenever  the 
desires  guide  it,  because  it  is  as  if  one  who  saw  were  led 
by  one  who  saw  not :  the  result  being  the  same  as  if 
both  were  blind.  This  is  what  our  Lord  referred  to  when 
He  said,  ‘  If  the  blind  lead  the  blind,  both  fall  into  the 
pit.’*  Eyes  are  of  little  service  to  the  moth,  whose 
desire  for  the  beauty  of  the  light  leads  it  dazzled  into 
the  midst  of  the  flame.  He  who  gives  the  rein  to  his 
desires  may  be  likened  to  the  fish  dazzled  by  the  light 
which  the  fishermen  throw  over  the  water,  that  the  nets 
may  not  be  seen  :  in  this  case,  light  serves  but  to  increase 
the  obscurity. 

3.  This  is  the  meaning  of  the  Psalmist  when  he  said, 
‘  Fire  hath  fallen  upon  them,  and  they  have  not  seen  the 
sun/f  for  the  desire  is  like  fire,  warming  with  its  heat, 
and  dazzling  with  its  light,  and  the  effect  of  the  desire 
in  the  soul  is,  that  it  enkindles  concupiscence,  and  dazzles 
the  intellect,  so  that  it  cannot  see.  The  cause  of  this 
dazzling  obscurity  is,  the  interposition  of  another  light 
between  the  object  and  the  eye,  whereon  the  eye  rests,  so 
as  to  see  nothing  beyond.  As  the  desire  comes  so  close 
to  the  soul,  and  within  the  range  of  its  vision,  we  are 
dazzled,  and  satisfied  with  the  light  it  gives,  and  so  it 
hides  from  us  the  clear  light  of  the  intellect,  which  we 
do  not,  and  never  shall  see,  until  the  glare  of  the  desire 
shall  have  ceased. 

*  S.  Matt.  xv.  14  t  Ps.  lvii.  9. 

D2 


36 


THE  ASCENT 


[EOOK  I.] 

4.  This  renders  so  deplorable  their  ignorance  who 
burden  themselves  with  indiscreet  penances,  and  other 
imprudent  methods  of  devotion — voluntary  certainly — 
on  which  they  rely,  thinking  such  alone,  without  morti¬ 
fying  their  desires  in  other  matters,  to  be  sufficient  to 
lead  them  on  to  the  union  of  the  divine  wisdom.  But 
this  can  never  be,  if  the  desires  be  not  diligently  mortified. 
If  these  persons  bestowed  but  half  their  labour  on  this, 
they  would  make  greater  progress  in  a  month  than  they 
can  now  make  in  many  years,  if  they  persevere  in  their 
present  ways.  As  it  is  necessary  to  till  the  earth  that  it 
may  bring  forth  fruit— for  otherwise  nothing  will  grow 
therein  but  weeds — so  also  is  it  necessary  to  mortify  our 
desires,  if  we  are  to  make  progress  towards  perfection. 
Without  mortification,  I  say  it  boldly,  we  shall  make  no 
progress  towards  perfection,  nor  in  the  knowledge  of  God 
and  of  ourselves,  notwithstanding  all  our  efforts,  any  more 
than  the  seed  will  grow  which  is  thrown  away  on  unculti¬ 
vated  ground.  Neither  can  the  darkness  and  ignorance 
of  our  souls  be  removed,  if  the  desires  are  not  quenched : 
for  they  are  like  a  mote  or  cataract  in  the  natural  eye, 
obstructing  the  vision,  until  it  be  taken  away. 

5.  The  Psalmist,  considering  the  blindness  of  those 
souls  which  are  under  the  power  of  their  desires,  the 
impossibility  of  their  clearly  beholding  the  truth,  and 
the  greatness  of  God’s  anger  with  them,  said,  ‘Before 
your  thorns  could  know  the  briar,  He  swalloweth  them 
up,  as  alive,  in  His  wrath.’*  Before  your  thorns,  your 
desires,  harden  and  grow  into  a  thicket,  shutting  out  the 
sight  of  God,  as  the  thread  of  life  is  frequently  broken  in 

*  Ps.  lvii.  io. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


37 


[chap.  VIII.] 

the  midst  thereof,  so  will  God  swallow  them  up  in  His 
anger.  Those  persons  in  whom  their  desires  live,  and 
hinder  the  knowledge  of  God,  God  will  swallow  up  in 
His  wrath,  either  in  the  next  life,  in  the  purifying  pains 
of  purgatory,  or  in  this,  in  afflictions  and  sufferings,  sent 
to  detach  them  from  their  desires,  or  in  the  mortification 
of  those  very  desires  voluntarily  undergone.  God  doeth 
this  to  take  away  the  false  light  of  desire  between  Him¬ 
self  and  us,  which  dazzles  us  and  hinders  us  from 
knowing  Him ;  and  that,  the  intellect  becoming  clear, 
the  ravage  of  desire  may  be  repaired. 

6.  Oh  that  men  knew  how  great  a  blessing,  that  of 
the  divine  light,  this  their  blindness,  the  result  of  their 
desires,  robs  them  of,  and  how  great  the  evils  they  daily 
fall  into,  because  they  do  not  mortify  them.  We  are  not 
to  rely  on  a  clear  intellect,  or  on  the  gifts  received  from 
God,  and  then  imagine  that  any  affections  or  desires  we 
may  indulge  in  will  not  blind  us,  nor  cause  us  to  fall 
into  a  worse  state,  little  by  little.  Who  would  have 
thought  that  a  man  of  perfect  wisdom,  filled  with  the 
gifts  of  God,  as  Solomon  was,  could  have  fallen  away 
in  his  old  age  into  such  blindness  and  the  torpor  of  the 
will,  as  to  build  altars  to  so  many  idols  and  worship 
them  ?  His  affection  for  his  wives,  and  his  negligence 
in  controlling  his  desires  and  the  satisfactions  of  his 
heart,  were  alone  sufficient  to  reduce  him  to  this.  So 
he  tells  us  himself,  saying,  ‘  Whatsoever  my  eyes  desired, 
I  refused  them  not,  and  I  withheld  not  my  heart  from 
enjoying  every  pleasure.’*  Such  was  the  effect  upon 
Solomon  of  unbridled  desires,  and  their  gratification. 


*  Eccles.  ii.  ia 


38 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  1.] 

though  at  first  he  was  cautiou  . ;  they  soon  blinded 
his  understanding,  and  at  last  put  out  the  light  of 
wisdom  within  him,  so  that  in  his  old  age  he  forsook 
God.  And  if  unmortified  desires  could  produce  such  a 
disaster  in  one,  who  knew  so  well  the  difference  between 
good  and  evil,  what  shall  they  not  produce  in  us  who 
are  so  ignorant?  We  are  like  the  people  of  Ninive,  of 
whom  God  said,  ‘They  know  not  how  to  distinguish 
between  their  right  hand  and  their  left,'*  since,  at  every 
stop,  we  take  good  for  evil,  and  evil  for  good ;  and  this 
is  as  it  were  natural  to  us.  What,  then,  must  it  be 
when  our  desires  are  added  to  our  natural  blind¬ 
ness,  but  that  which  the  prophet  bewailed,  speaking  of 
those  who  love  to  follow  after  their  desires :  ‘  We  have 
gi  oped  for  the  wall,  and  like  the  blind,  we  have  groped 
as  if  we  had  no  eyes,  we  have  stumbled  at  noon  as  if  in 
darkness.’!  Such  is  he  who  is  blinded  by  his  desires, 
for  in  the  presence  of  the  truth  and  his  real  interests  he 
cannot  see  them  any  more  than  if  he  had  been  utterly 
bli  nd. 


CHAPTER  IX. 

The  desires  pollute  the  soul.  Proofs  from  Scripture 

The  fourth  evil  which  the  desires  inflict  on  the  soul  is 
that  they  pollute  and  defile  it,  as  it  is  written,  ‘  He  that 
toucheth  pitch  shall  be  defiled  with  it.’  +  He,  then, 
toucheth  pitch  who  satisfies  the  desires  of  the  will  in 
any  created  thing.  Observe  here  that  the  wise  man 
compareth  the  creature  with  pitch  :  for  there  is  a  greater 


*1on.  iv.  II. 


t  Is.  lix.  io. 


+  Ecclea  s'ii.  i. 


[CHAP.  IX.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL.  39 

distance  between  the  excellence  of  the  soul  and  the 
noblest  creature  than  there  is  between  the  glittering 
diamond  or  fine  gold  and  pitch.  As  a  diamond  or  a 
piece  of  gold,  if  placed,  heated,  in  contact  with  pitch 
becomes  foul  and  stained  in  proportion  to  the  heat,  so 
the  soul  inflamed  by  the  desire  it  may  entertain  for  the 
creature,  draws  corruption  therefrom  and  defilement. 
And  there  is  a  greater  difference  between  the  soul  and 
all  other  created  corporeal  things  than  there  is  between 
the  most  pellucid  water  and  the  foulest  mud.  So,  then, 
as  such  water  mingled  with  mud  becomes  foul,  so  the 
soul  whose  affections  are  set  on  created  things  becomes 
polluted ;  for  then  it  resembles  them.  As  soot  defiles 
the  most  beautiful  and  perfect  face,  so  the  unruly  desires 
of  the  soul,  if  indulged  in,  defile  and  pollute  that  soul, 
which  is  in  itself  the  most  beautiful  and  perfect  image  of 
God. 

2.  The  prophet  Jeremias,  bewailing  the  ravages  of 
corruption  produced  by  these  unruly  desires,  first  of  all 
describes  the  beauty  of  the  soul  and  then  its  defile¬ 
ment:  ‘Her  Nazarites  were  whiter  than  snow,  purer 
than  milk,  more  ruddy  than  the  old  ivory,  fairer  than 
the  sapphire ;  their  face  is  now  made  blacker  than  coals, 
and  they  are  not  known  in  the  streets.'  *  The  hair  of  the 
Nazarites  signify  the  thoughts  and  affections  of  the  soul, 
which,  ordered  according  to  the  law  of  God,  that  is 
referred  all  to  Him,  are  ‘whiter  than  snow,  purer  than 
milk,  more  ruddy  than  the  old  ivory,  fairer  than  the 
sapphire.’  The  whole  physical  creation  in  all  its  beauty 
and  magnificence  is  signified  by  these  four  things,  and 

*  Lam.  iv.  7,  8. 


40 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  I.] 

higher  than  all  is  the  soul  of  man  and  its  operations— 
that  is,  the  Nazarites  with  their  long  hair — which,  when 
ordered,  not  according  to  the  commandments  of  God, 
that  is,  when  occupied  with  created  things,  is  now  made 
blacker  than  coals.  All  this  and  far  greater  ruin  befalls 
the  soul’s  beauty  from  the  indulgence  of  unruly  desires. 

3.  So,  then,  if  my  object  were  to  describe  the  foul  and 
corrupt  condition  to  which  the  desires  reduce  the  soul,  I 
should  not  be  able  to  find  anything  so  full  of  cobwebs 
and  worms,  not  even  corruption  itself,  wherewith  to 
compare  it.  For  though  the  disordered  soul  in  its 
natural  substance  be  as  perfect  as  God  has  made  it,  its 
reasonable  substance  is  foul,  filthy,  and  dark,  overladen 
with  all  these  evils  and  even  more.  Even  one  unruly 
desire— as  I  shall  hereafter  explain*  — though  not  a 
mortal  sin,  sullies  and  deforms  the  soul,  and  indisposes 
it  for  the  perfect  union  with  God,  until  it  be  cast  away. 
What,  then,  must  be  the  corruption  of  that  soul  which  is 
wholly  disordered,  which  has  abandoned  itself  to  the 
sway  of  its  desires,  and  how  far  removed  from  the  purity 
of  God?  No  language  can  describe,  no  understanding 
can  comprehend,  the  diverse  impurities  which  diverse 
desires  produce  in  the  soul. 

4.  If,  indeed,  any  description  of  this  could  be  given, 
so  that  men  might  understand  it,  it  would  be  a  matter  for 
wonder  and  for  great  pity :  for  each  desire,  according  to 
its  nature  and  intensity,  deposits  the  filth  and  sediment 
of  corruption  and  uncleanness  in  the  soul,  everyone  in  its 
own  way.  For  as  the  soul  of  the  just  man,  in  one  single 
perfection,  which  is  the  justice  thereof,  possesses  in- 

*  Ch.  x.i. 


[CHAP.  IX.] 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


41 


numerable  most  rich  gifts,  and  many  virtues  of  exceeding 
beauty,  everyone  of  them  lovely,  different  from  each 
other  according  to  the  multitude  and  variety  of  the  acts 
of  the  love  ot  God ;  so  the  disordered  soul  in  the  same 
way,  according  to  the  multitude  of  the  desires,  the  object 
of  which  are  created  things,  contracts  a  miserable  diver¬ 
sity  of  vileness  and  impurity,  with  which  these  desires 
pollute  it. 

5.  These  diverse  pollutions  are  described  by  the  pro¬ 
phet  Ezechiel,  when  God  showed  him  the  interior  of  the 
temple  with  its  walls  painted  round  about  with  the  like¬ 
nesses  of  creeping  things,  and  all  abominable  and  un¬ 
clean  beasts :  ‘  I  went  in,’  saith  the  prophet,  ‘  and  saw, 
and  behold  every  form  of  creeping  things,  and  of  living 
creatures,  the  abomination  and  all  the  idols  of  the  house 
of  Israel  were  painted  on  the  wall  round  about.’*  When 
the  prophet  had  seen  this,  God  said  to  him,  ‘  Surely  thou 
seest,  O  son  of  man,  what  the  ancients  of  the  house  of 
Israel  do  in  the  dark,  everyone  in  private  in  his  chamber. 
Turn  thee  again ;  thou  shalt  see  greater  abominations.' 
The  prophet  turned,  and  ‘  behold  women  sat  there 
mourning  for  Adonis.’  ‘  Turn  thee  again,’  said  God  to 
the  prophet,  ‘  and  thou  shalt  see  greater  abominations 
than  these.’  And  then  the  prophet  saw  ‘  at  the  door  of 
the  temple  of  the  Lord,  between  the  porch  and  the  altar, 
five-and-twenty  men  having  their  backs  to  the  temple  of 
the  Lord.’f 

6.  The  various  creeping  things  and  unclean  beasts 
painted  on  the  walls  of  the  temple  within  are  the  thoughts 
and  conceptions  of  the  intellect  derived  from  the  vile 

+  Ezech.  viii.  14,  16. 


*  Ezech.  viii.  10. 


42 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  I.] 

things  of  earth  and  of  other  created  things,  which, 
because  contrary  to  those  that  are  eternal,  defile  the 
temple  of  the  soul ;  and  the  soul  by  means  thereof,  em¬ 
barrasses  the  understanding,  which  is  its  first  court. 
The  women  in  the  second  court.  ‘  Mourning  for  Adonis  ’ 
are  the  desires  of  the  will,  the  second  faculty  of  the  soul ; 
these  weep,  as  it  were,  when  they  covet  that  on  which 
the  will  is  bent,  that  is,  the  unclean  things  painted  on 
the  understanding.  The  men  in  the  third  court  are  the 
fancies  and  imaginations  resulting  from  created  objects 
which  the  third  faculty  of  the  soul,  the  memory,  preserves 
and  dwells  on.  These  had  their  backs  to  the  temple  of 
the  Lord :  for  when  the  faculties  of  the  soul  have  been 
completely  occupied  with  any  object  of  earth,  the  soul 
itself  may  be  said  to  have  turned  its  back  upon  God’s 
temple,  which  is  right  reason,  and  which  tolerates  no¬ 
thing  that  is  in  opposition  to  God. 

7.  Let  this  suffice  for  the  present  to  give  us  some  insight 
into  the  foul  disorder  which  desires  engender  in  the  soul. 
For  were  I  to  treat  separately  of  the  hindrance  to  the 
divine  union  which  these  imperfections  and  their 
varieties  occasion ;  of  that  of  venial  sin,  which  is  much 
greater  than  that  of  imperfections,  and  of  its  varieties ; 
and  also  of  mortal  sin,  which  is  complete  defilement,  and 
of  its  various  forms,  I  should  never  come  to  an  end.  What 
I  say — and  it  is  to  the  purpose — is,  that  every  single 
desire,  though  it  be  but  the  slightest  imperfection, 
darkens  the  soul,  and  hinders  its  perfect  union  with  God. 


[CHAP.  X.] 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


4a 


CHAPTER  X. 

The  desires  make  the  soul  lukewarm,  and  enfeeble  virtue. 

Proofs  and  illustrations. 

The  fifth  evil  inflicted  on  the  soul  by  its  desire  is  luke¬ 
warmness  and  feebleness,  so  that  it  has  no  strength  to 
follow  after  virtue  nor  to  persevere  therein.  As  the 
strength  of  desire  is  diminished  when  applied  to  many 
objects,  instead  of  being  concentrated  upon  one,  and  the 
more  numerous  the  objects  embraced,  the  less  is  the 
energy  with  which  each  is  sought,  so  philosophers  say, 
is  it  with  virtue,  which  is  more  vigorous  when  intent  on 
one  object  than  when  it  is  wasted  upon  more.  It  is, 
therefore,  clear  that  if  the  desire  of  the  will  be  directed  to 
other  objects  than  virtue  it  must  be  very  weak  in  the  pur¬ 
suit  thereof.  The  soul  whose  will  is  divided  among  trifles, 
is  like  water  which  never  rises,  because  it  has  an  outlet 
below,  and  is  therefore  profitless.  Thus  it  was  that  the 
patriarch  Jacob  compared  Ruben  his  son  to  ‘  water  poured 
out/  because  he  had  given  way  to  his  desires  in  a  certain 
sin :  ‘  Thou  art  poured  out  as  water,  grow  thou  not ;  ’* 
that  is,  because  thou  art  poured  out  as  water  in  thy 
desires  thou  shalt  not  grow  in  virtue.  As  boiling  water 
left  uncovered  quickly  loses  its  heat,  and  as  aromatic 
spices  exposed  to  the  air  gradually  lose  their  fragrance 
and  the  strength  of  their  perfume,  so  the  soul  not  re¬ 
collected  in  the  love  of  God  alone  loses  the  heat  and 
vigour  of  virtue.  This  truth  was  well  understood  by  the 
Psalmist  when  he  said,  ‘I  will  keep  my  strength  to 
Thee/f  that  is,  I  will  concentrate  the  strength  of  my 
affections  cn  Thee  alone. 


Gen.  xlix.  4. 


t  Ps.  lviii.  10. 


THE  ASCENT 


44 


[BOOK  I.] 


2.  The  desires  enfeeble  the  soul,  for  they  are  like  the 
little  twigs  and  suckers  which  grow  on  a  tree,  sapping 
its  strength  so  that  it  shall  not  be  so  fruitful.  Of  suck 
souls  our  Saviour  says :  ‘Woe  unto  them  that  are  with 
child,  and  that  give  suck  in  those  days.’  *  This  signifies 
the  desires,  which,  if  not  cut  off,  will  continually  lessen 
the  strength  of  the  soul,  and  grow  to  be  its  ruin,  like  the 
suckers  on  a  tree.  Our  Lord,  therefore,  warns  us, 
saying,  ‘  Let  your  loins  be  girt.’  f  The  loins  are  the 
desires ;  they  are  also  like  leeches  sucking  the  blood 
from  the  veins,  for  so  the  wise  man  calls  them,  saying, 

‘  The  horse  leech  hath  two  daughters,’  the  desires,  ‘  that 
say,  bring,  bring.’  £ 

3.  It  is,  therefore,  evident  that  the  desires  bring  no 
good  at  all  to  the  soul,  but  rather  deprive  it  of  what  it  has, 
and  if  we  do  not  mortify  them,  they  will  not  rest  until 
they  have  done  what  the  young  vipers  are  said  to  do  to 
their  mother :  these,  as  they  grow  in  the  womb,  devour 
the  entrails  of  their  mother,  and  kill  her,  preserving 
their  own  life  at  the  cost  of  hers.  Thus  the  unmortified 
desires  grow  and  devour  the  soul,  killing  the  life  of  God 
within  it.  They  alone  live  in  that  soul,  because  that 
soul  has  not  destroyed  them  first.  This  it  is  that  made 
the  wise  man  pray:  ‘Take  from  me  the  greediness  ot 
the  belly.’  § 

4.  But  even  if  the  desires  do  not  issue  in  this  great 
calamity,  it  is  lamentable  to  see  how  they  torture  the 
poor  soul  in  which  they  dwell — how  hateful  to  itself 
they  render  it,  how  profitless  to  its  neighbours,  how  dull 


*  S.  Matt.  xxiv.  19. 
+  Prov.  xxx,  15, 


t  S.  Luke  xii,  35. 
§  Eccles,  xxiii,  6. 


[chap.  XI.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL.  45 

and  slothful  in  the  things  of  God.  There  are  no  corrupt 
humours  which  can  so  bow  down  a  sick  man,  enfeeble 
him  in  his  gait,  and  make  him  loathe  his  proper  food,  as 
the  desire  of  the  creature  bows  down  the  soul  in  sadness, 
and  indisposes  it  for  the  practice  of  virtue.  And,  in 
general,  the  reason  why  many  souls  have  no  love  or  in¬ 
clination  for  virtue  is,  that  they  entertain  affections  and 
desires  which  are  not  innocent  nor  directed  towards  our 
Lord  God 


CHAPTER  XI. 

The  necessity  of  freedom  from  all  desires,  however  slight,  for  the 

divine  union. 

It  seems  reasonable  here  for  the  reader  to  ask,  whether 
it  be  necessary  to  mortify  completely  every  desire,  small 
and  great,  before  perfection  can  be  reached,  or  whether 
it  will  be  enough  to  have  mortified  some  of  them,  over¬ 
looking  others — at  least  those  which  seem  of  less  moment 
—  because  it  is  a  matter  most  difficult  to  attain  to  such 
pureness  and  detachment,  as  to  have  no  affection  for 
anything  remaining  in  the  will. 

2.  To  this  I  reply:  in  the  first  place,  it  is  true  that  all  the 
desires  are  not  equally  hurtful,  neither  do  they  all  perplex 
the  soul  in  the  same  degree.  I  am  speaking  of  those 
which  are  voluntary  :  for  the  natural  desires,  when  we 
do  not  consent  to  them,  and  when  they  do  not  pass 
beyond  the  first  movements,  do  but  slightly  or  not  at  all 
stand  in  the  way  of  union.  By  natural  and  first  move¬ 
ments  I  mean  all  those  in  which  the  rational  will  had  no 


46 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  I.] 

share,  either  before  or  after  they  arose  :  for  to  banish  and 
mortify  these  completely  is,  in  this  life,  impossible.  The 
hindrance  which  these  create  is  not  such  as  to  prevent 
the  divine  union,  though  they  may  not  be  wholly  morti¬ 
fied  ;  they  may  remain  in  their  natural  state,  and  yet  the 
soul  in  its  spiritual  part  may  be  most  free  from  them. 
For  it  will  sometimes  happen  that  the  soul  enjoys  the 
profound  union  of  quiet  in  the  will,  while  these  remain 
in  the  sensual  portion  of  man’s  nature,  but  having  no 
communication  with  the  spiritual  portion  occupied  in 
prayer. 

3.  But  all  the  other  voluntary  desires,  whether  of  mortal 
sins,  which  are  the  most  grievous,  or  of  venial  sins, 
which  are  less  so,  or  imperfections  only,  which  are  still 
less  so,  must  be  banished  away,  and  the  soul  which 
would  attain  to  perfect  union  must  be  delivered  from 
them  all,  however  slight  they  may  be.  The  reason  is 
this :  the  state  of  divine  union  consists  in  the  total 
transformation  of  the  will  into  the  will  of  God,  in  such  a 
way  that  every  movement  of  the  will  shall  be  always  the 
movement  of  the  will  of  God  only.  This  is  the  reason 
why,  in  this  state,  two  wills  are  said  to  be  one — my  will 
and  God’s  will — so  that  the  will  of  God  is  also  that  of  the 
soul.  But  if  the  soul  then  cleaves  to  any  imperfection, 
contrary  to  the  will  of  God,  His  will  is  not  done,  for  the 
soul  wills  that  which  God  wills  not.  It  is  clear,  there¬ 
fore,  that,  if  the  soul  is  to  be  united  in  love  and  will  with 
God,  every  desire  of  the  will  must  first  of  all  be  ca  st 
away,  however  slight  it  may  be  ;  that  is,  we  must  not 
deliberately  and  knowingly  assent  with  the  will  to  any 
imperfection,  and  we  must  have  such  power  over  it,  and 


(CHAP.  XI.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL.  47 

such  liberty,  as  to  reject  every  such  desire  the  moment 
we  are  aware  of  it.  I  say  knowingly,  for  without  de¬ 
liberation  and  a  clear  perception  of  what  we  are  doing, 
or  because  it  is  not  wholly  in  our  power,  we  may  easily 
give  way  to  imperfections  and  venial  sins,  and  to  those 
natural  desires  of  which  I  have  just  spoken.  It  is  of  such 
sins  as  these,  not  so  entirely  voluntary,  that  it  is  written: 
‘A  just  man  shall  fall  seven  times,  and  shall  rise 
again. 

4.  But  as  to  those  voluntary  and  perfect  deliberate 
desires,  how  slight  soever  their  objects  may  be,  any  one 
of  them,  not  overcome,  is  sufficient  to  prevent  this  union. 
I  am  speaking  of  the  unmortified  habit  thereof,  because 
certain  acts  occasionally  have  not  so  much  power,  for 
the  habit  of  them  is  not  settled;  still  we  must  get  rid 
of  them,  for  they,  too,  proceed  from  habitual  imper¬ 
fection.  Some  habits  of  voluntary  imperfections,  so  far 
as  they  are  never  perfectly  overcome,  hinder  not  only  the 
divine  union  but  our  progress  towards  perfection. 

5.  These  habitual  imperfections  are,  for  instance,  much 
talking,  certain  attachments,  which  we  never  resolve  to 
break  through — such  as  to  individuals,  to  a  book  or  a 
cell,  to  a  particular  food,  to  certain  society,  the  satisfac¬ 
tion  of  one’s  taste,  science,  news,  and  such  things. 
Everyone  of  these  imperfections,  if  the  soul  is  attached 
and  habituated  to  them,  results  in  serious  injuries  to  our 
growth  and  progress  in  goodness.  Yea,  even  if  we  fall 
daily  into  many  other  imperfections  greater  than  these, 
provided  they  are  not  the  result  of  the  habitual  indul¬ 
gence  of  any  evil  inclination,  we  should  not  be  so  much 

*  Piov.  xxiv.  1 6. 


48 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  I  ] 

hindered  in  our  spiritual  course  as  we  are  by  this  selfish 
attachment  of  the  soul  to  particular  objects;  for  while 
the  soul  entertains  it,  it  is  useless  to  hope  that  we  can 
ever  attain  to  perfection,  even  though  the  object  of  our 
attachment  be  but  of  the  slightest  importance  possible. 

6.  Does  it  make  any  difference  whether  a  bird  be  held  by 
a  slender  thread  or  by  a  rope,  while  the  bird  is  bound 
and  cannot  fly  till  the  cord  that  holds  it  is  broken  ?  It 
is  true  that  a  slender  thread  is  more  easily  broken,  still, 
notwithstanding,  if  it  is  not  broken  the  bird  cannot  fly. 
This  is  the  state  of  a  soul  with  particular  attachments : 
it  never  can  attain  to  the  liberty  of  the  divine  union, 
whatever  virtues  it  may  possess.  Desires  and  attach¬ 
ments  affect  the  soul  as  the  remora  is  said  to  affect  a 
ship  ;  that  is  but  a  little  fish,  yet  when  it  clings  to  the 
vessel  it  effectually  hinders  its  progress. 

7.  How  sad  it  is  to  see  certain  souls,  like  vessels  richly 
freighted,  full  of  good  works,  of  spiritual  exercises, 
virtues  and  gifts  of  God,  which,  because  they  have  not 
the  courage  to  break  with  certain  tastes,  attachments,  or 
affections — these  are  all  one — never  reach  the  haven  of 
perfect  union.  And  yet  it  would  cost  them  but  a  single 
vigorous  flight  to  break  the  thread  of  their  attachment 
or  to  shake  off  the  remora  of  desire.  It  is  a  matter  of 
deep  regret,  when  God  has  given  them  strength  to  burst 
other  and  stronger  bonds— those  of  vanity  and  sins — 
merely  because  they  will  not  detach  themselves  from 
trifles,  which  God  has  left  for  them  to  break  away  from 
for  love  of  Him,  and  which  are  no  more  than  a  single 
thread — that  they  should  for  this  neglect  their  own 
advancement  and  the  attainment  of  so  great  a  blessing. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


49 


[CHAP.  XI.] 

And  what  is  still  more  deplorable,  because  of  such 
attachments,  not  only  do  they  not  advance,  but,  so  far  as 
perfection  is  concerned,  they  fall  back,  losing  in  some 
measure  what  they  had  already  gained  with  so  much 
labour.  For  it  is  well  known  that  on  the  spiritual  road 
not  to  go  on  overcoming  self  is  to  go  backwards,  and 
not  to  increase  our  gain  is  to  lose. 

8.  This  is  what  our  Lord  would  teach  us  when  He  says, 
‘  He  that  gathereth  not  with  me  scattereth.’  *  He  who 
will  neglect  to  repair  the  vessel  that  is  but  slightly 
cracked,  will  at  last  lose  all  the  liquor  it  may  hold ;  for 
in  the  words  of  the  preacher  ‘  he  that  contemneth  small 
things  shall  fall  by  little  and  little  :’f  and  ‘of  one  spark 
cometh  a  great  fire.’  +  Thus  one  imperfection  is  enough 
to  beget  another,  and  this  other,  others  again.  We  shall 
hardly  ever  see  a  soul,  negligent  in  overcoming  a  single 
desire,  which  has  not  also  many  other  desires  arising  out 
of  the  weakness  and  imperfection  from  which  the  first 
proceeds.  There  have  been  many  persons  who,  by  the 
grace  of  God,  had  made  great  progress  in  detachment 
and  freedom,  and  yet  because  they  gave  way,  under  the 
pretence  of  some  good— as  of  society  and  friendship — 
to  petty  attachments,  have  thereby  lost  the  spirit  and 
sweetness  of  God,  holy  solitude,  and  cheerfulness,  and 
have  injured  the  integrity  of  their  spiritual  exercises,  so 
as  to  be  unable  to  stop  before  all  was  gone.  All  this  has 
befallen  them  because  they  did  not  root  out  the  principle 
of  pleasure  and  of  the  sensual  desires,  keeping  them¬ 
selves  in  solitude  for  God. 

9.  We  must  ever  walk  on  this  road  so  as  to  reach  the 

*  S.  Matt.  xii.  30.  t  Eccles.  xix.  I.  +  Ibid.  xi.  34. 

& 


50 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  I.] 

end  ;  that  is,  in  the  constant  repression  of  our  desires, 
and  not  in  their  indulgence :  and  if  we  do  not  perfectly 
repress  them  we  shall  never  perfectly  reach  the  end.  As 
wood  can  never  be  transformed  into  fire  if  but  one 
degree  of  heat  necessary  for  that  end  be  wanting, 
so  the  soul  that  has  but  one  imperfection  can  never  be 
perfectly  transformed  in  God,  as  I  shall  hereafter 
explain  when  speaking  of  the  night  of  faith.*  The  soul 
has  but  one  will  ;  and  if  this  will  be  occupied  or  embar¬ 
rassed,  it  is  not  free,  perfect,  solitary,  and  pure,  as  it 
ought  to  be  for  this  divine  transformation.  This  truth  is 
foreshadowed  in  the  book  of  Judges,  where  we  read  that 
an  angel  of  the  Lord  came  to  the  children  of  Israel  and 
told  them  that,  because  they  had  not  destroyed  the  in¬ 
habitants  of  the  land,  but  had  made  a  league  with  some 
of  them,  these,  therefore,  would  be  left  among  them  as 
their  enemies,  and  an  occasion  to  them  of  their  fall  and 
destruction :  ‘  Wherefore  I  would  not  destroy  them 
from  before  your  face,  that  you  may  have  enemies,  and 
their  gods  may  be  your  ruin.’  f 

10.  God  is  just  in  thus  dealing  with  those  souls  whom 
He  has  led  forth  out  of  the  Egypt  of  this  world,  for  whom 
He  has  slain  the  giants  of  their  sins,  and  whose  enemies 
He  has  destroyed,  which  are  the  occasions  of  sin  which 
they  meet  with  in  the  world,  and  all  this  for  the  sole 
purpose  of  their  entrance  into  the  promised  land  of  the 
pivine  union.  He  is  just,  I  say,  in  thus  dealing  with 
them,  when  He  sees  them  form  friendships,  and  become 
confederate  with  the  heathen,  which  are  their  imper¬ 
fections  ;  when  they  do  not  mortify  themselves  wholly, 
*  Bk.  ii.  4.  f  Judges  ii.  3. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


51 


[chat.  XII.] 

but  are  negligent  and  slothful  in  their  lives  :  for  this, 
then,  He  becomes  angry  with  them,  and  suffers  them  to 
fall  through  their  desires  from  bad  to  worse. 

11.  This  truth  is  also  shadowed  forth  in  the  command  ot 
God  to  Josue  when  the  children  of  Israel  were  about  to 
enter  into  the  land  of  promise.  The  city  of  Jericho  was 
to  be  utterly  destroyed  and  all  that  was  within,  man  and 
woman,  young  and  old,  together  with  the  cattle  ;  and 
the  people  were  not  to  take,  nor  even  to  touch  any  of 
the  spoil  thereof.*  He,  therefore,  that  will  enter  into  the 
divine  union  must  put  to  death  all  that  lives  in  his  soul, 
whether  small  or  great,  many  or  few  ;  he  must  abstain 
from  all  desire  thereof,  and  be  completely  detached 
therefrom,  as  if  neither  existed  for  the  other. 

12.  St.  Paul,  writing  to  the  Corinthians,  says  the  same 
thing  :  ‘  This  therefore  I  say,  brethren,  the  time  is  short : 
it  remaineth,  that  they  also  who  have  wives  be  as  if 
they  had  none,  and  they  that  weep,  as  though  they  wept 
not,  and  they  that  rejoice  as  if  they  rejoiced  not,  and 
they  that  buy  as  though  they  possessed  not,  and  they 
that  use  this  world  as  if  they  used  it  not.’  f  The  apostle 
teaches  here  that  we  must  be  detached  in  spirit  from  the 
world  if  we  would  walk  so  as  to  attain  unto  God. 


CHAPTER  XII. 

The  nature  of  those  desires  which  suffice  to  injure  the  soul. 

I  MIGHT  have  spoken  at  greater  length  of  the  night  ol 
sense,  as  much  may  be  said  of  the  evil  which  the 
*  Josue  vi.  iS,  21.  t  i  Cor.  vii.  29-31 


E2 


52 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  I.] 

desires  occasion,  not  only  in  the  way  described,  but  in 
many  others  as  well ;  but  this  is  enough  for  my  purpose, 
because  it  is  now  clear  why  the  mortification  of  them  is 
called  night,  and  how  necessary  it  is  to  enter  into  this 
night  in  order  to  draw  near  unto  God. 

2.  One  thing  only  remains  for  discussion  before  I  speak 
of  the  way  by  which  this  night  is  entered  upon,  and  so 
conclude  this  book — namely,  a  doubt  which  might  be 
suggested  to  the  reader  by  the  matter  in  hand.  It  might 
be  asked,  in  the  first  place,  whether  any  desire  be  enough 
to  produce  in  the  soul  these  positive  and  negative  evils 
of  which  I  have  spoken,  and  in  the  second  place,  whether 
any  desire,  however  slight,  and  of  whatever  kind,  be 
enough  to  produce  all  these  five  evils  together,  or  whether 
each  desire  produces  a  distinct  evil,  as  one  desire  weari¬ 
ness,  another  pain,  and  another  darkness. 

3.  To  this  I  reply  as  follows : — In  the  first  place,  if  we  are 
speaking  of  the  negative  evil,  which  consists  in  the  soul’s 
being  deprived  of  God,  it  is  only  those  voluntary  desires 
which  are  the  matter  of  mortal  sin  that  can,  and  do, 
result  in  this  :  for  these  rob  the  soul  in  this  life  of  grace, 
and  in  the  next  of  glory,  which  is  the  fruition  of  God. 
And  in  the  second  place,  that  all  desires,  which  are  the 
matter  of  mortal  sin,  and  those  voluntary  desires,  which 
are  matter  of  venial  sin,  and  those  which  are  imperfec¬ 
tions,  are,  everyone  of  them,  enough  to  inflict  on  the  soul 
the  positive  evils.  These  evils,  though  in  one  sense 
negative,  are  here  called  positive,  because  they  corres¬ 
pond  to  a  turning  towards  the  creature,  as  the  negative 
evils  correspond  to  a  turning  away  from  God. 


53 


[CHAP.  XII.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

4.  There  is, however,  this  difference:  those  desires  which 
are  matter  of  mortal  sin  produce  complete  blindness, 
pain,  impureness,  and  weakness.  But  those  other  desires, 
matter  of  venial  sin,  or  known  imperfection,  do  not  pro¬ 
duce  these  evils  in  this  perfect  and  supreme  degree,  see¬ 
ing  that  they  do  not  cast  the  soul  out  of  the  state  ot 
grace  :  for  the  loss  of  grace  is  concurrent  with  the  dominion 
of  these  evils  over  the  soul,  because  their  life  consists 
in  the  death  of  grace.  Still  they  occasion  somewhat  ot 
these  evils,  though  but  remissly,  proportional  to  that 
weakness  and  remissness  which  they  generate  in  the 
soul  ;  so  that  the  particular  desire  which  most  weakens 
the  soul  is  most  fruitful  in  pain,  blindness  and  impure¬ 
ness.  But  it  is  to  be  remarked  that,  though  every  desire 
generates  all  these  evils,  which  we  here  call  positive, 
there  are  some  which  chiefly  and  directly  produce  par¬ 
ticular  evils,  and  other  evils  incidentally.  For  though  it 
is  true  that  one  sensual  desire  produces  all  these  evils, 
yet  its  chief  and  proper  fruit  is  the  defilement  of  soul  and 
body.  Though  one  avaricious  desire  also  produces  all 
these  evils,  yet  its  principal  and  direct  result  is  trouble. 
Though  one  vainglorious  desire,  precisely  like  the  rest, 
produces  all  these  evils,  yet  its  chief  and  immediate  effect 
is  darkness  and  blindness.  And,  though  one  gluttonous 
desire  issues  in  the  same  evils,  yet  still  its  primary  direct 
result  is  weakness  in  those  things  that  pertain  to  virtue. 
The  same  may  be  said  of  all  other  desires. 

5.  The  reason  why  any  act  of  voluntary  desire  produces 
all  these  evils  in  the  soul  together,  is  that  contrariety 
which  subsists  directly  between  it  and  those  acts  of  virtue 
which  result  in  opposite  effects,  As  an  act  of  virtue  pro- 


54 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  I.] 


duces  and  generates  in  the  soul  sweetness,  peace,  conso¬ 
lation,  light,  pureness,  and  fortitude  together,  so  an 
unruly  desire  begets  pain,  fatigue,  weariness,  blindness, 
and  weakness.  All  virtues  increase  by  the  practice  of 
each  ;  so  also  vices  thrive  and  grow,  and  their  effects  in 
the  soul  in  the  same  way.  Though  all  these  evils  are 
not  visible  then  when  the  desire  is  gratified,  because  the 
satisfaction  thereof  furnishes  at  the  time  no  opportunity 
for  them,  yet  afterwards  the  evil  results  become  clearly 
visible.  For  the  desire,  when  it  is  fulfilled,  is  sweet,  and 
appears  good,  but  afterwards  the  effects  thereof  are  found 
to  be  bitter,  which  is  the  experience  of  everyone  who  has 
suffered  himself  to  be  led  away  thereby.  I  am  not  ignor¬ 
ant,  however,  that  there  are  some  so  blind  and  so  insen- 
sible  as  not  to  feel  this  :  they  do  not  walk  in  the  ways  of 
God,  and  therefore  see  not  that  which  hinders  their 
drawing  near  unto  Him. 

6.  I  am  not  speaking  here  of  those  other  natural  desires 
which  are  involuntary,  nor  of  thoughts  which  do  not  go 
beyond  the  first  movements,  nor  of  other  temptations  to 
which  we  consent  not,  because  none  of  these  produce 
any  of  the  evils  I  describe.  Though  a  person  liable  to 
these  trials  may  imagine  that  the  passion  and  disturb¬ 
ance  thus  occasioned  darken  and  defile  his  soul,  in  reality 
it  is  not  so— yea,  rather  the  contrary  effects  are  some¬ 
times  the  result  of  them.  Because,  in  proportion  to  the 
resistance  offered,  such  an  one  gains  strength,  pureness, 
light,  consolation,  and  many  other  good  things,  according 
to  the  words  of  our  Lord  to  St.  Paul :  ‘  Virtue  is  made 
perfect  in  infirmity.’*  But  voluntary  desires  produce 

*  2  Cor.  xii.  9. 


55 


[CHAP.  XIII.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

these  and  more  evils.  For  this  cause  the  chief  solicitude 
of  spiritual  directors  is  to  mortify  the  desires  of  their 
penitents,  and  to  make  them  deny  themselves  in  all  that 
is  pleasing  to  them,  so  as  to  deliver  them  from  so  great 
misery. 


CHAPTER  XIII. 

How  the  soul  enters  by  faith  into  the  night  ot  sense. 

It  now  remains  for  me  to  give  some  directions  by  which 
the  soul  may  be  able  to  enter  this  night  of  sense.  Ordin¬ 
arily,  the  soul  enters  this  night  in  two  ways  :  one  is  the 
active  way,  the  other  is  the  passive.  The  active  way  is 
that  by  which  the  soul  is  able  to  make,  and  does  make, 
efforts  of  its  own  to  enter  in,  assisted  by  divine  grace.  • 
Of  this  I  shall  speak  in  the  instructions  that  follow.  The 
passive  way  is  that  in  which  the  soul  does  nothing  as  ot 
itself,  neither  does  it  make  therein  any  efforts  of  its  own  ; 
but  it  is  God  who  works  in  it,  giving  special  aids,  and 
the  soul  is,  as  it  were,  patient,  freely  consenting  thereto. 
Of  this  I  shall  speak  when  treating  of  the  dark  night, 
where  I  shall  speak  of  those  who  are  beginners.  And 
as  I  shall  have  then  to  give  many  counsels  to  such  with 
reference  to  the  many  imperfections  to  which  they  are 
liable  on  this  road,  I  shall  not  enlarge  on  that  question 
now.  Besides,  this  is  not  the  place  to  do  so,  for  I  am 
now  concerned  only  with  the  reasons  why  this  journey 
is  called  night,  with  the  nature  and  divisions  of  the  same. 
But  as  it  seems  a  defect,  and  not  so  profitable  as  it  should 
be,  to  abstain  here  from  furnishing  some  help  or  instruc¬ 
tions  proper  for  this  night  of  the  desires,  I  have  deter- 


56 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  I.] 

mined  to  lay  down  the  brief  instruction  following.  I 
shall  adopt  the  same  course  at  the  conclusion  of  each  of 
these  divisions  or  causes  of  this  night,  of  which  by  the 
help  of  our  Lord  I  undertake  to  speak. 

2.  These  instructions  for  the  subduing  of  our  desires  are, 
in  my  opinion,  though  brief  and  few,  as  profitable  and 
effectual  as  they  are  brief.  He  who  will  reduce  them  to 
practice  will  need  none  others,  for  they  include  every 
thing. 

3 —  1.  Be  continually  careful  and  earnest  in  imitating 
Christ  in  everything,  conforming  thyself  to  His  life :  for 
this  end  thou  must  meditate  thereon,  that  thou  mayest 
know  how  to  imitate  it,  and  conduct  thyself  in  all  things 
as  He  would  have  done  Himself. 

4 —  2.  To  do  this  well,  every  satisfaction  offered  to  the 
senses,  which  is  not  for  God’s  honour  and  glory,  must  be 
renounced  and  rejected  for  the  love  of  Jesus  Christ, 
Who  in  this  life  had,  and  sought,  no  other  pleasure  than 
doing  the  will  of  His  Father,  which  was  His  meat,*  as 
He  tells  us  Himself.  For  instance,  if  the  pleasure  of 
listening  to  anything  which  tends  not  to  the  service  of 
God  presents  itself,  seek  not  that  pleasure,  neither  give 
ear  to  what  is  said.  If  thou  art  offered  the  sight,  pleasur¬ 
able  in  itself,  of  things  which  do  not  lead  thee  nearer 
to  God,  seek  not  that  pleasure,  and  abstain  from  that 
sight.  Do  the  same  also  in  conversation  and  every 
other  commerce  of  society.  Practise  the  same  mortifica¬ 
tion  with  respect  to  the  other  senses,  as  far  as  possible ; 
and  if  it  be  not  possible,  it  will  be  enough  not  to  seek 
the  pleasure  that  is  offered.  Thus  the  mortification  ot 

*  S.  John  iv.  34. 


[CHAP.  XIII.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL.  57 

the  senses  and  the  absence  of  all  pleasure  must  be 
striven  after,  so  that  the  soul  may  be  as  in  darkness. 
The  practice  of  this  counsel  will  bring  with  it  great  profit 
in  a  short  time. 

5.  In  order  to  mortify  and  calm  the  four  natural  passions 
of  joy,  hope,  fear,  and  grief,  from  the  concord  and  tran¬ 
quility  of  which  result  these  and  other  great  advantages, 
the  following  instructions  are  a  perfect  means  of  great 
merit  and  the  source  of  great  virtues  :  — 

6.  Strive  always,  not  after  that  which  is  most  easy, 
but  after  that  which  is  most  difficult. 

Not  after  that  which  is  most  pleasant,  but  after  that 
which  is  most  unpleasant. 

Not  after  that  which  giveth  pleasure,  but  after  that 
which  giveth  none. 

Not  after  that  which  is  consoling,  but  after  that  which 
is  afflictive. 

Not  after  that  which  ministers  repose,  but  after  that 
which  ministers  labour. 

Not  after  great  things,  but  after  little  things. 

Not  after  that  which  is  higher  and  precious,  but  after 
that  which  is  lower  and  despised. 

Strive  not  to  desire  anything,  but  rather  nothing. 

Seek  not  after  that  which  is  better,  but  after  that 
which  is  worse,  and  desire  to  be  detached  from  all 
things,  empty  and  poor  for  Christ’s  sake.  This  state  is 
to  be  embraced  with  a  perfect  heart,  and  the  will  must 
conform  thereto.  Because  if  our  heart  be  truly  engaged 
in  these  efforts,  we  shall  in  a  short  time  attain  to  great 


THE  ASCENT 


58 


[BOOK  I.] 


joy  and  consolation  therein,  doing  our  work  orderly  with 
discretion. 

7.  These  instructions,  well  acted  upon,  are  sufficient  for 
our  entrance  on  the  night  of  sense.  But  still,  out  of  the 
abundance  of  the  matter,  I  will  give  another  method, 
which  teaches  us  how  to  mortify  truly  the  desire  of 
honour,  from  which  so  many  others  proceed. 

8 —  1.  Do  those  things  which  bring  thee  into  contempt, 
and  desire  that  others  also  may  do  them. 

2.  Speak  disparagingly  of  thyself,  and  contrive  that 
others  may  do  so  too. 

3.  Think  humbly  and  contemptuously  of  thyself,  and 
desire  that  others  may  do  so  also. 

9 —  I  think  it  fitting,  in  conclusion,  to  insert  here  certain 
instructions  for  ascending  to  the  summit  of  Mount 
Carmel,  which  is  the  high  estate  of  union.  Though  the 
doctrine  they  contain  is  spiritual  and  interior,  it  relates 
also  to  the  spirit  of  imperfection  in  sensible  and  exterior 
things,  which  may  be  met  with  in  the  two  roads  on 
either  side  of  the  way  of  perfection.  We  shall,  therefore, 
take  these  sentences  in  this  sense,  namely,  as  referring 
to  sensible  things,  and  afterwards,  in  the  second  division 
of  the  night,  we  shall  take  them  as  referring  to  that 
which  is  spiritual.  They  are  these — 

10 —  1.  That  thou  mayest  have  pleasure  in  everything, 
seek  pleasure  in  nothing. 

2.  That  thou  mayest  know  everything,  seek  to  know 
nothing. 

3.  That  thou  mayest  possess  all  things,  seek  to  possess 
nothing. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


59 


[CHAP.  XIII.] 

4.  That  thou  mayest  be  everything,  seek  to  be  nothing. 

5.  That  thou  mayest  attain  to  that  in  which  thou  hast 
no  pleasure,  thou  must  walk  there  where  thou  hast  no 
pleasure. 

6.  That  thou  mayest  attain  to  that  which  thou  knowest 
not,  thou  must  go  through  that  which  thou  knowest  not. 

7.  That  thou  mayest  attain  to  that  which  thou  pos- 
sessest  not,  thou  must  go  through  that  which  thou 
possessest  not. 

8.  That  thou  mayest  attain  to  that  which  thou  art  not, 
thou  must  go  through  that  which  thou  art  not. 

11.  Instructions  how  not  to  impede  the  All. 

1.  When  thou  dwellest  upon  anything,  thou  hast 
ceased  to  cast  thyself  upon  the  All. 

2.  Because  in  order  to  arrive  from  all  to  the  All,  thou 
hast  to  deny  thyself  wholly  in  all. 

3.  And  when  thou  comest  to  attain  the  All,  thou  must 
keep  it  without  desiring  anything. 

4.  Because  if  thou  wilt  keep  anything  with  the  All, 
ihou  hast  not  thy  treasure  simply  in  God. 

12.  In  detachment  the  spirit  finds  quiet  and  repose, 
for  coveting  nothing,  nothing  wearies  it  by  elation,  and 
nothing  oppresses  it  by  dejection,  because  it  stands  in 
the  centre  of  its  own  humility ;  for  as  soon  as  it  covets 
anything  it  is  immediately  fatigued  thereby. 


60 


THE  ASCENT 


("book  I.] 


CHAPTER  XIV. 

Explanation  of  the  second  line  of  the  stanza. 

With  anxious  love  itiflamcd. 

Now  that  I  have  explained  the  first  line  of  the  stanza, 
which  relates  to  the  sensual  night,  and  described  what 
the  night  of  sense  is,  and  why  it  is  called  night,  and 
have  also  shown  how  we  are  to  enter  it  in  the  active 
way,  it  remains  for  me  here  to  treat  of  its  wonderful 
properties  and  effects,  which  are  described  in  the  follow¬ 
ing  lines  of  this  stanza.  I  touch  but  lightly  upon  them, 
as  I  promised  in  the  prologue,  and  pass  on  at  once  to 
the  second  book,  which  describes  the  other,  the  spiritual, 
division  of  this  night. 

2.  The  words  of  the  soul  then  are,  ‘with  anxious  love 
inflamed.’  The  soul  has  passed  out  and  gone  forth  in 
the  dark  night  of  sense  to  the  union  of  the  Beloved. 
For,  in  order  to  overcome  our  desires,  and  to  deny  our¬ 
selves  in  all  things,  our  love  and  inclination  for  which 
are  wont  so  to  inflame  the  will  that  it  delights  therein, 
we  require  another  and  greater  fire  of  another  and  nobler 
love— that  of  the  Bridegroom — so  that  having  all  our  joy 
in  Him,  and  deriving  from  Him  all  our  strength,  we  may 
gain  such  resolution  and  courage  as  shall  enable  us 
easily  to  abandon  and  deny  all  besides.  It  was  neces¬ 
sary,  in  order  to  subdue  our  sensual  desires,  not  only  to 
have  this  love  for  the  Bridegroom,  but  also  to  be  on  fire 
therewith,  and  that  with  anxiety.  For  the  fact  is,  that 
our  sensual  nature  is  influenced  by  such  vehement 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


61 


[CHAP.  XV.] 

desires,  and  attracted  by  sensible  objects,  that  if  our 
spiritual  nature  were  not  on  fire  with  other  and  nobler 
anxieties — anxieties  for  that  which  is  spiritual — we  should 
never  overcome  our  natural  and  sensible  satisfactions, 
nor  be  able  to  enter  on  the  night  of  sense,  neither  should 
we  have  the  courage  to  remain  in  the  darkness,  in  the 
denial  of  every  desire. 

3.  The  nature  and  varieties  of  these  anxieties  of  love, 
which  the  soul  feels  in  the  beginning  of  the  way  of 
union,  the  carefulness  and  the  contrivances  it  employs 
that  it  may  go  forth  out  of  its  own  house,  which  is  self- 
will,  into  the  night  of  the  mortification  of  the  senses ;  how 
easy,  and  even  pleasant,  these  longings  for  the  Bride¬ 
groom  make  the  toils  and  dangers  of  that  night— this  is 
not  the  place  to  explain,  neither,  indeed,  can  it  be  done ; 
for  these  things  are  rather  to  be  felt  and  meditated  upon 
than  matters  for  description :  so  I  shall  pass  on  to  the 
explanation  of  the  other  lines  in  the  following  chapter. 


CHAPTER  XV. 

Explanation  of  the  last  lines. 

4  O  HAPPY  lot !  forth  unobserved  I  went,  my  house  being 
now  at  rest.’  This  is  a  metaphor  derived  from  the 
miserable  condition  of  slavery.  He  who  is  delivered 
therefrom,  pronounces  his  own  a  happy  lot  when  none 
of  his  jailers  hinder  his  release.  The  soul,  because  of 
original  sin,  is  truly  a  prisoner  in  this  mortal  body,  in 
the  power  of  natural  passions  and  desires,  and  therefore 
counts  it  a  happy  lot  when  it  has  gone  forth  unobserved 


62 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  I.] 


from  this  slavery  and  subjection,  that  is,  unimpeded  and 
unembarrassed  by  all  its  desires.  To  effect  this,  it  was 
advantageous  for  the  soul  to  have  departed  in  the  dark 
night,  in  the  denial  of  every  pleasure,  and  in  the  mortifi¬ 
cation  of  every  desire. 

2.  ‘My  house  being  now  at  rest/  that  is,  the  sensual  part 
of  the  soul,  the  house  of  the  desires  being  now  at  rest, 
because  those  desires  are  overcome  and  lulled  to  sleep. 
For  until  the  desires  be  lulled  to  sleep  by  the  mortifica¬ 
tion  of  sensuality,  and  sensuality  itself  be  mortified  in 
them,  so  that  it  shall  be  contrary  to  the  spirit  no  more, 
the  soul  cannot  go  forth  in  perfect  liberty  to  the  fruition 
oi  the  union  with  the  Beloved. 


[chap.  I.] 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


63 


BOOK  II. 

PROXIMATE  MEANS  OF  UNION,  FAITH.  THE  SECOND 
NIGHT  OF  THE  SPIRIT. 


CHAPTER  I. 
STANZA  II. 


In  darkness ,  and  in  safety , 

By  the  secret  ladder ,  disguised , 

O  happy  lot ! 

In  darkness  and  concealment, 

My  house  being  now  at  rest. 

HERE  the  soul  sings  of  that  happy  lot,  attained  by 
detachment  of  spirit  from  all  spiritual  imperfec¬ 
tions,  and  selfish  desires  in  spiritual  things.  This  was 
a  happiness  so  much  the  greater,  because  of  the  great¬ 
ness  of  the  difficulty  which  the  soul  had  to  encounter  in 
tranquilizing  the  house  of  the  spiritual  part,  and  in 
effecting  an  entrance  into  the  interior  darkness,  which 
is  spiritual  detachment  from  all  things,  as  well  sensual 
as  spiritual,  leaning  only  on  a  living  faith— it  is  of  this  I 
speak  ordinarily,  because  I  have  to  do  with  those  who 
are  walking  in  the  way  of  perfection — and  by  it  ascending 
upwards  unto  God. 

2.  This  is  here  called  a  secret  ladder,  because  all  the 
steps  and  divisions  of  it  are  secret,  hidden  from  sense 
and  the  understanding.  Thus  the  soul  is  in  darkness  as 
to  all  natural  light  of  sense  and  understanding,  going 


64 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.] 

forth  beyond  the  limits  of  nature  and  of  reason,  that  it 
may  ascend  by  this  divine  ladder  of  the  faith  which 
reaches  and  penetrates  into  the  heights  of  God.  Hence 
the  soul  is  said  to  have  gone  forth  in  disguise,  because 
its  natural  condition  was  divinely  changed,  ascending 
upwards  by  faith.  And  this  disguise  was  the  cause  why 
it  was  unobserved,  unimpeded  by  the  things  of  time  or 
reason,  and  by  the  devil  himself :  for  none  of  these  can 
hurt  the  soul  while  travelling  onwards  by  living  faith. 

3.  This  is  not  all :  the  soul  travels  in  such  secrecy  and 
concealment,  and  the  devil  with  his  wiles  is  so  ignorant 
of  its  way,  that  it  journeys  truly,  as  it  is  here  said,  ‘in 
darkness  and  concealment,'  so  far  as  the  evil  one  is  con¬ 
cerned,  to  whom  the  light  of  the  faith  is  more  than 
darkness.  Thus  the  soul,  which  thus  walks,  is  said  to 
walk  in  darkness,  hidden  from  the  devil,  as  I  shall  more 
clearly  explain  hereafter.’* 

4.  This  is  the  reason  why  it  is  said  that  the  soul  went 
forth  ‘in  darkness  and  in  safety.’  For  he  to  whom  is 
granted  the  happiness  of  walking  in  the  darkness  of  the 
faith,  having  faith  for  his  guide,  walks  in  the  utmost 
security  when  he  goeth  forth  beyond  all  natural 
imaginations  and  spiritual  reasonings.  And  so  it  is 
added,  that  the  soul  went  forth  in  the  spiritual  night, 

‘  my  house  being  now  at  rest,’  that  is,  the  rational  and 
spiritual  parts.  When  the  soul  attains  to  the  divine 
union,  its  natural  powers,  impulses,  and  sensible 
anxieties  in  the  spiritual  part,  are  at  rest.  It  is,  there¬ 
fore,  not  said  here  that  the  soul  went  forth  anxiously,  as 
in  the  first  night  of  sense,  because  the  anxieties  of 

*  Dark  Night,  Book  ii.,  ch.  21. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


65 


[chap.  I.'J 

sensible  love  were  necessary  for  a  perfect  departure 
then,  so  as  to  journey  in  the  night  of  sense,  and  to  be 
detached  from  all  objects  of  the  same.  But  in  order  to 
perfect  the  tranquility  of  the  house  of  the  spirit,  no 
more  is  required  than  the  confirmation  of  all  the  powers 
of  the  soul,  all  its  pleasures  and  spiritual  desires,  in 
pure  faith.  This  done,  the  soul  is  united  with  the 
Beloved  in  a  certain  union  of  simplicity,  pureness,  love, 
and  resemblance. 

7.  In  the  first  stanza,  speaking  of  the  sensual  part,  the 
soul  went  forth  in  a  dark  night ;  and  here,  speaking  of 
the  spiritual  part,  ‘  in  darkness/  because  this  darkness 
of  the  spiritual  part  is  greater,  as  darkness  is  a  deeper 
gloom  than  that  of  the  night  ;  for,  however,  gloomy  the 
night  may  be*  still  something  is  visible,  but  in  darkness 
nothing  is  visible.  Thus,  in  the  night  of  sense,  there 
remains  still  some  light,  because  the  understanding 
remains,  and  the  reason  also,  which  are  not  blind.  But 
in  this  spiritual  night,  the  night  of  faith,  all  is  darkness, 
both  in  the  understanding  and  the  sense.  The  soul  says 
that  it  went  forth  ‘  in  darkness  and  in  safety/  which  it 
said  not  in  the  first  stanza,  and  the  reason  is  that  the 
soul,  when  it  least  uses  its  own  proper  ability,  travels 
most  securely,  because  it  walks  most  by  faith. 

I  shall  explain  this  matter  at  great  length  in  the 
present  book,  to  which  I  request  the  benevolent  atten¬ 
tion  of  the  devout  reader,  because  it  will  contain  things 
most  important  to  the  truly  spiritual  man.  Though 
they  are  somewhat  obscure,  yet  one  question  will  open 
the  way  to  another,  so  that,  as  I  believe,  all  will  be  well 
understood. 


66 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  H.] 


CHAPTER  II. 

The  second  part,  or  cause  of  this  night — Faith.  Two  reasons 
why  it  is  darker  than  the  first  and  third. 

I  HAVE  now  to  treat  of  the  second  part  of  this  night- 
faith— which  is  that  wonderful  means  of  reaching  the 
goal,  which  is  God,  Who,  as  I  said,*  is  also  to  the  soul, 
naturally,  the  third  cause  or  division  of  this  night. 
Faith,  which  is  the  mean,  is  compared  to  midnight,  and 
thus  it  may  be  said,  that  faith  is  to  the  soul  darker  than 
the  first  part,  and  in  a  way  also  darker  than  the  third  : 
for  the  first  part,  that  of  the  senses,  is  like  the  beginning 
of  night,  when  sensible  objects  cease  to  be  visible,  and 
is  not  so  far  removed  from  light  as  midnight  is.  The 
third  part,  that  which  immediately  precedes  daybreak,  is 
not  so  dark  as  midnight,  because  the  clear  night  of 
morning  is  at  hand  ;  this  is  compared  with  God. 

Though  it  is  true,  speaking  after  the  manner  of  men 
that  God  is  as  dark  a  light  to  the  soul  as  faith,  yet 
because  God  Himself,  when  the  three  divisions  of  this 
night  are  over — which  are  naturally  the  night  of  the 
soul— illumines  it  supernaturally  with  the  rays  of  the 
divine  light  in  a  higher  and  nobler  way,  experimentally 
— which  is  the  commencement  of  the  perfect  union  which 
ensues  when  the  third  night  is  past — it  may  be  said  to 
be  less  dark.  It  is  also  darker  than  the  first  part,  which 
relates  to  the  lower,  the  sensual,  nature  of  man,  and 
consequently  the  more  exterior.  The  second  night,  of 
faith,  relates  to  the  higher,  to  the  rational,  nature  of 

*  Bk.  i.  ch.  ii. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


67 


[CHAP.  III.] 

man,  and  is  therefore  more  interior  and  obscure,  because 
it  deprives  us  of  the  light  of  reason,  or  rather,  to  speak 
more  clearly,  makes  it  blind.  Thus  the  comparison 
between  it  and  midnight  is  made  good :  for  that  is  the 
most  obscure  and  most  perfect  portion  of  the  night. 

I  have  now  to  show  how  this  second  division — the 
night  of  faith— is  the  night  of  the  spirit,  as  the  first 
division  is  the  night  of  sense,  and  then  what  those  things 
are  which  are  contrary  to  it,  and  how  the  soul  is  to  be 
disposed  actively  for  entering  into  it.  For  as  to  the 
passive  way,  which  is  the  work  of  God,  I  reserve  it  for 
another  opportunity— for  the  third  book  of  this  treatise. 


CHAPTER  III. 

Faith,  the  dark  night  of  the  soul.  Proofs  from  reason 
and  the  Holy  Scriptures. 

Faith,  according  to  theologians,  is  a  habit  of  the  soul, 
certain  and  obscure.  The  reason  why  it  is  an  obscure 
habit  is  that  it  makes  us  believe  the  truths  which  God 
Himself  has  revealed— truths  surpassing  the  light  of 
reason,  and  beyond  the  reach  of  all  human  under¬ 
standing.  Hence  it  is  that  the  excessive  light  of  the 
faith  is  obscure  darkness  to  the  soul,  because  it  subdues 
that  which  is  great,  and  destroys  that  which  is  little, 
as  the  light  of  the  sun  puts  out  all  other  lights  so  that 
they  appear  not,  and  subdues  our  power  of  vision.  As 
the  sun  blinds  the  eyes  and  robs  them  of  the  vision 
which  it  gives,  because  its  own  light  is  out  of  proportion 
with,  and  stronger  than,  our  power  of  sight,  so  the  light 


68 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.] 


of  faith,  by  reason  of  its  greatness  and  the  mode  in 
which  God  communicates  it,  transcends  our  under 
standing,  which  in  itself  reaches  only  to  natural  know¬ 
ledge,  though  gifted  with  the  power  of  obeying  in  that 
which  is  supernatural  when  it  is  the  will  of  our  Lord  to 
bring  it  to  a  supernatural  action.  The  understanding, 
therefore,  can  of  itself  know  nothing  but  in  a  natural 
way,  the  beginning  of  which  is  in  the  senses,  and  in  no 
other  way.  For  this  end  it  retains  the  forms  and  species 
of  objects  either  in  themselves  or  in  their  resemblances; 
for  as  the  philosophers  say,  knowledge  results  from  an 
object  and  the  faculty.  Ab  objecto  et potentia paritur  notitia. 

2.  If  a  man  were  told  of  things  he  knows  nothing  of,  and 
the  like  of  which  he  has  never  seen,  no  light  could  be 
thrown  on  them,  so  far  as  he  is  concerned,  any  more 
than  if  they  had  never  been  spoken  of  in  his  presence. 
For  instance,  if  you  were  told  that  there  is  in  a  certain 
island  an  animal  which  you  have  never  seen,  and  no 
description  of  it  were  given  you,  so  that  you  might  com¬ 
pare  it  with  other  animals,  your  knowledge  of  it,  or  what 
it  resembles,  is  not  greater  than  it  would  have  been 
if  you  had  never  been  told  of  it.  I  will  give  another 
illustration  which  will  make  the  matter  still  more  clear : 
if  you  tell  a  person  blind  from  his  birth  that  one  object 
is  white,  another  yellow,  he  would  never  understand 
what  you  mean,  though  you  may  speak  to  him  for  ever, 
because  he  has  never  seen  such  colours  or  anything  like 
them,  so  as  to  have  any  opinion  on  the  subject.  The 
word  colour  only  will  remain  with  him,  because  that 
reaches  him  through  the  ear,  but  the  form  and 
figure  thereof  escape  him  because  he  has  never  seen  them 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


[CHAP.  TIT.] 


53 


3.  Such  is  faith  to  the  soul,  though  the  resemblance  is 
not  exact  in  all  points  ;  faith  tells  us  of  things  we  have 
never  seen,  of  things  of  which  we  had  no  previous 
knowledge,  either  in  themselves  or  in  aught  resembling 
them,  and  to  which  we  never  could  have  attained  but  by 
revelation.  The  light  of  natural  knowledge  cannot 
inform  us  of  these  things,  because  they  are  out  of  pro¬ 
portion  with  our  natural  senses.  We  know  them 
because  we  have  heard  of  them,  believing  that  which  the 
faith  teaches  us,  subjecting  thereto  our  natural  light, 
and  making  ourselves  blind  before  it :  for,  as  it  is  said 
by  St.  Paul,  ‘  faith  cometh  by  hearing,  and  hearing  by 
the  word  of  Christ.’  *  Faith  is  not  knowledge  that 
entereth  in  by  any  of  the  senses,  but  rather  the  ascent  of 
the  soul  to  that  which  cometh  by  hearing.  Faith, 
therefore,  far  transcends  the  foregoing  illustrations  :  for 
not  only  does  it  not  produce  evidence  or  knowledge,  but, 
as  I  have  said,  it  transcends  and  surpasses  all  other 
knowledge  whatever,  so  that  perfect  contemplation  alone 
may  judge  of  it.  Other  sciences  are  acquired  by  the 
light  of  the  understanding,  but  that  of  faith  is  acquired 
without  it,  by  rejecting  it  for  faith,  and  it  is  lost  in  its 
own  light.  Therefore  it  is  said  by  Isaias,  ‘  If  you  will 
not  believe  you  shall  not  understand.’  t 

4.  It  is  evident  that  faith  is  a  dark  night  to  the  soul,  and 
it  is  thus  that  it  gives  it  light ;  the  more  it  darkens  the 
soul  the  more  does  it  enlighten  it.  It  is  by  darkening 
that  it  gives  light,  according  to  the  words  of  the  prophet, 

‘  If  you  will  not  believe,’  that  is,  ‘  if  you  do  not  make 


*  Rom.  x.  17. 


f  Is.  vii,  9,  according  to  the  Sept. 


70 


TI1E  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.] 

yourselves  blind  you  shall  not  understand  ’ — that  is,  you 
shall  not  have  light,  the  high  and  supernatural  know¬ 
ledge. 

5.  The  faith  was  foreshadowed  by  the  cloud  which 
divided  the  Egyptians  from  the  children  of  Israel  at  the 
entrance  of  the  Red  Sea.  ‘  It  was  a  dark  cloud  en¬ 
lightening  the  night.’*  How  wonderful  a  cloud!— its 
darkness  illumines  the  night.  Faith,  then,  which  is  a 
dark  cloud,  obscure  to  the  soul— and  night  also,  for  in 
the  presence  of  faith  the  soul  is  blind,  v  'thout  its  own 
natural  light — enlightens  with  its  own  obscurity,  and 
illumines  the  darkness  of  the  soul,  so  that  the  master 
becomes  like  the  disciple.  For  man  who  is  in  darkness 
cannot  be  rightly  enlightened  except  by  darkness,  as  the 
Psalmist  saith,  ‘Day  to  day  uttereth  speech,  and  night 
to  night  showeth  knowledge.’  f  The  ‘  day  ’  is  God  in 
everlasting  bliss,  where  it  is  perpetual  day,  who  com¬ 
municates  and  reveals  His  Word,  the  Son,  to  the  blessed 
angels  and  the  holy  souls,  who  are  also  now  day,  so  that 
they  may  know  Him  and  rejoice  in  Him.  ‘Night,’ 
which  is  the  faith  in  the  Church  militant,  where  it  is  still 
night,  showeth  knowledge  to  the  Church,  and  conse¬ 
quently  to  every  soul,  which  is  also  night,  because  it 
does  not  as  yet  enjoy  the  clear  beatific  vision,  and 
because  in  the  presence  of  faith  its  natural  light  is 
extinguished.  The  teaching  set  before  us  here  then  is,  that 
the  faith,  which  is  dark  night,  illumines  the  soul  which 
is  in  darkness,  according  to  the  words  of  the  Psalmist, 
‘  Night  shall  be  my  light  in  my  pleasures,’  +  that  is,  in 
the  pleasures  of  pure  contemplation  and  of  union  with 

*Ex.  xiv.  20.  f  Ps.  xviii.  3.  £  Ps.  cxxxviii.  11. 


71 


[CHAP.  IVi]  OP  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

God,  the  night  of  faith  shall  guide  me.  The  soul,  there¬ 
fore,  must  be  in  darkness  that  it  may  have  light,  and  be 
able  to  journey  on  this  road. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

How  the  soul  must  be  in  darkness,  in  order  to  be  duly  guided  by 
faith  to  the  highest  contemplation. 

I  believe  that  I  have  now  in  some  measure  explained 
how  faith  is  the  dark  night  of  the  soul,  and  how  also  the 
soul  must  be  in  darkness,  or  deprived  of  its  natural  light, 
that  it  may  be  guided  by  faith  to  this  high  end  of  union. 
But  that  the  soul  may  know  how  to  effect  this,  it  is 
necessary  that  I  should  explain  somewhat  more  minutely 
this  darkness  which  must  cover  :it  that  it  may  enter  into 
the  abyss  of  faith.  I  shall,  therefore,  in  this  chapter, 
speak  of  that  in  general,  and  by  and  by,  with  the  help 
of  God,  more  particularly  of  the  way  which  the  soul 
must  keep,  that  it  may  not  go  astray  in  the  darkness, 
nor  put  obstacles  before  its  guide. 

2. 1  say,  then,  that  the  soul,  to  be  rightly  guided  by  faith 
to  this  state,  must  be  in  darkness,  not  only  as  to  that 
part  thereof— the  sensual  and  the  inferior,  of  which 
I  have  already  spoken — which  regards  temporal  and 
created  things,  but  also  as  to  that  part  thereof,  the 
rational  and  the  superior,  of  which  I  am  now  speaking, 
which  regards  God  and  spiritual  things.  Because  it  is 
clearly  necessary  for  the  soul,  aiming  at  its  own  super¬ 
natural  transformation,  to  be  in  darkness  and  far  removed 
from  all  that  relates  to  its  natural  condition,  the  sensua? 


72  THE  ASCENT  [BOOK  n.] 

and  rational  parts.  The  supernatural  is  that  which 
transcends  nature,  and,  therefore,  that  which  is  natural 
remains  below.  Inasmuch  as  this  union  and  trans¬ 
formation  are  not  cognisable  by  sense  or  any  human 
power,  the  soul  must  be  completely  and  voluntarily 
empty  of  all  that  can  enter  into  it,  of  every  affection  and 
inclination,  so  far  as  it  concerns  itself.  Who  shall 
hinder  God  from  doing  His  own  will  in  a  soul  that  is 
resigned,  detached,  and  self-annihilated  ?  The  soul, 
therefore,  must  be  emptied  of  all  such  feelings;  and 
however  great  may  be  its  supernatural  endowments,  it 
must  be  as  it  were  detached  from  them,  in  darkness  like 
a  blind  man,  leaning  on  the  obscure  faith,  and  taking  it 
for  its  light  and  guide ;  not  trusting  to  anything  it 
understands,  tastes,  feels,  or  imagines — for  all  this  is 
darkness,  which  will  lead  it  astray,  or  keep  it  back ;  and 
faith  is  above  all  understanding,  taste,  and  sense. 

3.  If  the  soul  be  not  blind  herein,  and  in  total  darkness 
as  to  all  such  things,  it  will  never  reach  to  those  higher 
things  which  faith  teaches.  A  blind  man,  if  he  be  not 
totally  blind,  will  not  commit  himself  wholly  to  his 
guide,  but  because  he  sees  a  little  he  thinks  a  certain 
road  secure,  not  seeing  another  which  is  better.  Such 
an  one  leads  his  guide  astray,  because  he  acts  as  if  he 
saw,  and  has  more  authority  in  the  matter  than  his  guide  : 
so  the  soul,  if  it  leans  upon  any  understanding,  sense, 
or  feeling  of  its  own — all  this,  whatever  it  may  be,  is  very 
little  and  very  unlike  to  God — in  order  to  travel  along 
this  road,  is  most  easily  led  astray  or  hindered,  because 
it  is  not  perfectly  blind  in  faith,  which  is  its  true  guide. 
This  is  the  meaning  of  St.  Paul  when  he  said,  ‘  He  that 


73 


[CHAP.  IV.J  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

cometh  to  God  must  believe  that  He  is.’  *  lie  that  will 
draw  near  and  unite  himself  unto  God,  must  believe  that 
He  is.  This  is  saying-  in  effect,  he  that  will  attain  to 
the  union  of  God  must  not  rely  on  his  own  understanding, 
nor  lean  upon  his  own  imagination,  sense,  or  feeling, 
but  must  believe  in  the  perfection  of  the  divine  essence, 
which  is  not  cognisable  by  the  understanding,  desire, 
imagination,  nor  any  sense  of  man,  and  which  in  this 
life  can  never  be  known  as  it  is.  Yea,  in  this  life,  our 
highest  knowledge  and  deepest  sense,  perception,  and 
understanding  of  God  is  infinitely  distant  from  that 
which  He  is,  and  from  the  pure  fruition  of  His  presence. 

4.  Thus  the  Prophet  cries  out,  ‘The  eye  hath  not  seen, 
O  God,  beside  Thee,  what  things  Thou  hast  prepared  for 
them  that  wait  for  Thee  ;  ’  f  and  S.  Paul  repeats  his  words, 
*  Eye  hath  not  seen,  nor  ear  heard,  neither  hath  it  entered 
into  the  heart  of  man,  what  things  God  hath  prepared 
for  them  that  love  Him.’  +  How  much  soever,  then,  the 
soul  may  desire  to  be  perfectly  united  by  grace  in  this 
life  to  that  whereunto  it  is  to  be  united  in  glory  in  the 
next,  which  as  St.  Paul  saith,  eye  hath  not  seen  nor  ear 
heard,  and  which  hath  not  entered  into  the  heart  of  man 
in  the  flesh,  it  is  evident,  that  in  order  to  be  perfectly 
united  in  this  life  in  grace  and  love,  it  must  live  in  utter 
darkness  as  to  all  that  can  enter  by  the  eye,  all  that  the 
ear  receives,  all  that  the  fancy  may  imagine,  or  the  heart 
conceive,  which  here  signifies  the  soul.  Greatly  embar¬ 
rassed,  then,  is  the  soul,  on  the  road  of  the  divine  union, 
when  it  leans  at  all  on  its  own  understanding,  sense, 
imagination,  judgment,  will,  or  any  habits  of  its  own,  or 

t  Is.  Ixiv.  4.  t  I  Cor.  ii.  9. 


Heb.  xi.  6. 


74 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.] 

anything  peculiar  to  itself,  not  knowing  how  to  free  and 
detach  itself  therefrom.  For,  as  I  have  said,  the  goal  to 
which  it  tends  is  beyond  this,  though  this  may  be  the 
highest  thing  it  may  know  or  feel,  and  it  must,  there¬ 
fore  go  beyond,  passing  on  to  that  which  it  knows  not. 

5.  On  this  road,  therefore,  to  abandon  one’s  own  way  is 
to  enter  on  the  true  way,  or,  to  speak  more  correctly,  to 
pass  onwards  to  the  goal  ;  and  to  forsake  one’s  own  way 
is  to  enter  on  that  which  has  none,  namely  God.  For 
the  soul  that  attains  to  this  state  has  no  ways  or  methods 
of  its  own,  neither  does  it,  nor  can  it,  lean  upon  anything 
of  the  kind.  I  mean  ways  of  understanding,  perceiving, 
or  feeling,  though  it  has  all  ways  at  the  same  time,  as 
one  who,  possessing  nothing,  yet  possesseth  everything. 
For  the  soul  courageously  resolved  on  passing,  interiorly 
and  exteriorly  beyond  the  limits  of  its  own  nature,  enters 
illimitably  within  the  supernatural, which  has  no  measure, 
but  contains  all  measure  eminently  within  itself.  To 
arrive  there  is  to  depart  hence,  going  away,  out  of  oneself, 
as  far  as  possible,  from  this  vile  state  to  that  which  is  the 
highest  of  all.  Therefore,  rising  above  all  that  may  be 
known  and  understood,  temporally  and  spiritually,  the 
soul  must  earnestly  desire  to  reach  that  which  in  this 
life  cannot  be  known,  and  which  the  heart  cannot  con¬ 
ceive  ;  and,  leaving  behind  all  actual  and  possible  taste 
and  feeling  of  sense  and  spirit,  must  desire  earnestly  to 
arrive  at  that  which  transcends  all  sense  and  all 
feeling. 

6.  In  order  that  the  soul  may  be  free  and  unembarrassed 
for  this  end,  it  must  in  no  wise  attach  itself— as  I  shall 
presently  explain  when  I  treat  of  this  point— to  anything 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


75 


[CHAP.  IV.] 

it  may  receive  in  the  sense  or  spirit,  but  esteem  such  as 
of  much  less  importance.  For  the  more  importance  the 
soul  attributes  to  what  it  understands,  feels,  and  imag¬ 
ines,  and  the  greater  the  estimation  it  holds  it  in,  whether 
it  be  spiritual  or  not,  the  more  it  detracts  from  the 
supreme  good,  and  the  greater  will  be  its  delay  in  attain¬ 
ing  to  it.  On  the  other  hand,  the  less  it  esteems  all  that 
it  may  have  in  comparison  with  the  supreme  good,  the 
more  does  it  magnify  and  esteem  the  supreme  good,  and 
consequently  the  greater  the  progress  towards  it. 

7.  In  this  way  the  soul  draws  nearer  and  nearer  to  the 
divine  union,  in  darkness,  by  the  way  of  faith  which, 
though  it  be  also  obscure,  yet  sends  forth  a  marvellous 
light.  Certainly,  if  the  soul  will  see,  it  thereby  becomes 
instantly  more  blind  as  to  God,  than  he  who  should  at¬ 
tempt  to  gaze  upon  the  sun  shining  in  its  strength. 
On  this  road,  therefore,  to  have  our  own  faculties  in  dark¬ 
ness  is  to  see  the  light,  according  to  the  words  of  our 
Lord  :  ‘For  judgment  I  am  come  into  this  world,  that 
they  who  see  not  may  see,  and  they  who  see  may  become 
blind.’  *  This  relates  to  the  spiritual  road  :  he  who  is  in 
darkness,  blind  as  to  his  own  proper  and  natural  light, 
shall  see  supernaturally,  and  he  who  shall  rely  on  any 
light  of  his  own,  the  greater  will  be  his  blindness,  and 
the  more  he  shall  be  hindered  on  the  way  of  the  divine 
union. 

8.  I  think  it  necessary  now,  in  order  to  avoid  confusion, 
to  explain  the  nature  of  the  soul’s  union  with  God.  This 
I  intend  to  do  in  the  following  chapter,  for  if  this  be 
clearly  understood,  a  great  light  will  be  thrown  on  that 

*  S.  John  ix.  39. 


76 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.] 

which  is  to  follow.  This,  therefore,  seems  to  me  a  fit 
place  for  the  subject.  For  though  it  breaks  in  on  the 
course  of  the  present  matter,  still  it  is  not  beside  the 
question,  because  it  will  help  us  to  understand  the  subject 
before  us.  The  next  chapter  then  will  be  a  sort  of  paren¬ 
thesis,  after  which  I  shall  return  to  the  special  discussion 
of  the  three  powers  of  the  soul  in  their  relations  to  the 
three  theological  virtues  with  reference  to  the  second 
night  of  the  spirit. 


CHAPTER  V. 

The  union  of  the  soul  with  God.  A  comparison. 

What  I  have  hitherto  written  will,  in  some  degree, 
explain  the  nature  of  that  state  which  I  have  called  the 
union  of  the  soul  with  God,  and  therefore,  what  now 
follows  will  be  so  much  the  more  intelligible.  It  is  not 
my  intention  at  present  to  describe,  in  particular,  what 
is  the  union  of  the  understanding,  of  the  will,  and  of  the 
memory ;  what  is  the  passing,  and  what  the  abiding  union 
of  these  faculties,  and  what  also  is  the  perfect  union,  of 
which  I  shall  speak  hereafter ;  it  will  be  better  under¬ 
stood  in  its  proper  place,  where  treating  the  same  subject 
we  may  have  a  vivid  illustration  with  the  present  ex¬ 
planation  ;  and  there  everything  will  be  understood,  and 
considered,  and  a  better  judgment  arrived  at. 

2.  Now  I  am  speaking  only  of  the  perfect  and  abiding 
union  in  the  substance  of  the  soul  and  its  powers,  so  far  as 
the  union  is  a  habit.  Because,  as  to  actual  union,  I  shall 
explain  hereafter  how  there  is  not,  and  cannot  be  in  this 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


77 


[chap,  v.] 

life,  any  abiding-  union  in  the  faculties  of  the  soul,  but 
only  that  which  is  passsing. 

3.  In  order  then  to  understand  what  this  union  is,  we 
must  remember  that  in  every  soul,  even  that  of  the 
greatest  sinner  in  the  world,  God  dwells,  and  is  sub¬ 
stantially  present.  This  way  of  union  or  presence  of 
God,  in  the  order  of  nature,  subsists  between  Him  and 
all  His  creatures.  By  this  He  preserves  them  in  being, 
and  if  He  withdraws  it  they  immediately  perish  and 
cease  to  be.*  And  so  when  I  speak  of  the  union  of  the 
soul  with  God,  I  do  not  mean  this  substantial  presence 
which  is  in  every  creature,  but  that  union  and  trans¬ 
formation  of  the  soul  in  God  by  love  which  is  only  then 
accomplished  when  there  subsists  the  likeness  which 
love  begets.  For  this  reason  shall  this  union  be  called 
the  union  of  likeness,  as  the  other  is  essential  or  sub¬ 
stantial  union  ;  this  latter  one  is  natural,  the  other  is 
supernatural,  which  takes  effect  when  two  wills,  the  will  ' 
of  God  and  the  will  of  the  soul,  are  conformed  together, 
neither  desiring  aught  repugnant  to  the  other.  Thus  the 
soul,  when  it  shall  have  driven  away  from  itself  all  that 
is  contrary  to  the  divine  will,  becomes  transformed  in 
God  by  love. 

4.  This  is  to  be  understood  not  only  of  that  which  is 
contrary  in  act  but  also  in  habit,  so  that  not  only  volun¬ 
tary  acts  of  imperfection  must  be  got  rid  of,  but  the 
habit  thereof  as  well.  And  because  no  creature  can,  by 
any  actions  or  powers  of  its  own,  attain  to  that  which  is 
God,  the  soul  must  be  therefore  detached  from  all  created 
things,  from  all  actions  and  powers  of  its  own,  that  is 

*  See  Spiritual  Canticle  Stanz.  xi.  2. 


78 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.J 

from  its  own  understanding,  liking,  and  feeling,  so  that 
massing  by  everything  which  is  unlike  to,  and  not  in 
conformity  with,  God,  it  may  attain  to  the  receiving  of 
His  likeness,  and  resting  upon  nothing  which  is  not  His 
will,  it  may  be  thus  transformed  in  Him.  Though  it  be 
true,  as  I  have  said,  that  God  is  always  in  every  soul, 
bestowing  upon  it,  and  preserving  to  it,  by  His  presence, 
its  natural  being,  yet  for  all  this  He  does  not  always 
communicate  the  supernatural  life.  For  this  is  given 
only  by  love  and  grace,  to  which  all  souls  do  not  attain  ; 
and  those  who  do,  do  not  in  the  same  degree,  for  some 
rise  to  higher  degrees  of  love  than  others.  That  soul, 
therefore,  has  greater  communion  with  God,  which  is 
most  advanced  in  love,  that  is,  whose  will  is  most  con¬ 
formable  to  the  will  of  God.  And  that  soul  which  has 
reached  perfect  conformity  and  resemblance  is  perfectly 
united  with,  and  supernaturally  transformed  in,  God. 
For  which  cause,  therefore,  as  I  have  already  explained, 
the  more  the  soul  cleaves  to  created  things,  relying  on 
its  own  strength,  by  habit  and  inclination,  the  less  is  it 
disposed  for  this  union,  because  it  does  not  completely 
resign  itself  into  the  hands  of  God,  that  He  may  trans¬ 
form  it  supernaturally.  The  soul  has  need,  therefore,  to 
be  detached  from  these  natural  contrarieties  and  dis¬ 
similarities,  that  God,  Who  communicates  Himself  to  it 
naturally,  in  the  order  of  nature,  may  also  communicate 
Himself  supernaturally,  in  the  order  of  grace. 

5.  This  is  the  meaning  of  St.John  when  he  said,  ‘  bom, 
net  of  blood,  nor  of  the  will  of  the  flesh,  nor  of  the  will 
of  man,  but  of  God.’  *  It  is  as  if  he  had  said,  ‘  He  gave 

*  S.  John  i.  13. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


79 


[ciiap.  v.] 

power  to  be  made  the  sons  of  God,’  that  is,  to  be  trans¬ 
formed  in  God,  only  to  those  who  are  ‘born,  not  of 
blood,'  not  of  natural  temperaments  and  constitutions, 
‘  nor  of  the  will  of  the  flesh,’  nor  of  our  natural  free  will 
and  capacities,  and  still  less  of  the  will  of  man,  which 
includes  every  form  of  intellectual  judgment  and  compre¬ 
hension.  To  none  of  these  gave  He  power  to  be  made 
sons  of  God  in  all  perfection,  but  only  to  those  who  are 
born  of  God  ;  to  those  regenerated  by  grace,  first  of  all 
dead  to  all  that  is  of  the  old  man,  rising  above  them¬ 
selves  to  that  which  is  supernatural,  and  receiving  from 
God  their  new  birth  and  sonship,  surpassing  every 
thought  of  man.  For  as  our  Lord  saith,  ‘Unless  a  man 
be  born  again  of  water  and  the  Holy  Ghost,  he  cannot 
enter  into  the  kingdom  of  God.’*  He  who  shall  not  have 
been  born  again  of  the  Holy  Ghost  shall  not  see  the 
kingdom  of  God,  which  is  the  state  of  perfection.  To 
be  born  again  of  the  Holy  Ghost  in  this  life  perfectly,  is 
to  be  a  soul  most  like  unto  God  in  purity  without  any 
stain  of  imperfection.  Thus  the  pure  transformation  by 
participation  of  union  may  be  effected,  though  not  essen¬ 
tially. 

6.  In  order  that  we  may  have  a  clearer  notion  of  the  one 
and  the  other,  let  us  consider  the  following  illustration : 
the  sun,  with  its  rays,  strikes  a  window ;  but  if  that 
window  be  stained  and  unclean,  the  sun  cannot  shine 
throughout  nor  transform  it  perfectly  into  itself,  as  it 
would  have  done,  had  it  been  clean  and  unsullied.  This 
depends  not  on  the  sun  but  on  the  window,  so  that  if  the 
latter  were  perfectly  clean,  the  rays  of  the  sun  would  so 

*  S.  John  iii.  5. 


80 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  n.j 

shine  through  it,  and  so  transform  it  as  to  make  it  seem 
identical  with  the  rays  and  to  give  forth  the  light 
thereof,  though  in  truth  the  window,  while  it  appears 
one  with  the  rays  of  the  sun,  preserves  still  its  own 
separate  and  distinct  substance.  In  this  case  we  might 
say  that  the  window  is  a  ray,  or  light,  by  participation. 

7.  Thus  the  soul  resembles  the  -window  ;  the  divine  light 
of  the  presence  of  God  in  the  order  of  nature,  perpetually 
strikes  upon  it,  or  rather  dwells  within  it.  The  soul  then 
by  resigning  itself,  in  removing  from  itself  every  spot 
and  stain  of  the  creature,  which  is  to  keep  the  will 
perfectly  united  to  the  will  of  God — for  to  love  Him  is  to 
labour  to  detach  ourselves  from,  and  to  divest  ourselves 
of,  everything  which  is  not  God,  for  God’s  sake — 
becomes  immediately  enlightened  by,  and  transformed 
in,  God  ;  because  He  communicates  His  own  super¬ 
natural  being  in  such  a  way  that  the  soul  seems  to  be 
God  Himself  and  to  possess  the  things  of  God.  Such  a 
union  is  then  wrought  when  God  bestows  on  the  soul 
that  supreme  grace  which  makes  the  things  of  God  and 
the  soul  one  by  the  transformation  which  renders  the 
one  a  partaker  of  the  other.  The  soul  seems  to  be  God 
rather  than  itself,  and  indeed  is  God  by  participation, 
though  in  reality  preserving  its  own  natural  substance 
as  distinct  from  God  as  it  did  before,  although  trans¬ 
formed  in  Him,  as  the  window  preserves  its  own  sub¬ 
stance  distinct  from  that  of  the  rays  of  the  sun  shining 
through  it  and  making  it  light. 

8.  Hence  it  becomes  more  evident  that  the  fitting  dis¬ 
position  for  this  Union  is,  not  that  the  soul  should  under¬ 
stand,  taste,  feel,  or  imagine  anything  on  the  subject  of 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


81 


[chap-  V.] 

the  nature  of  God,  or  any  other  thing  whatever,  but  only 
that  pureness  and  love  which  is  perfect  resignation,  and 
complete  detachment  from  all  things  for  God  alone. 
And  as  there  cannot  be  any  perfect  transformation  with¬ 
out  perfect  pureness,  so  in  proportion  to  that  pureness 
will  be  the  enlightenment,  illumination,  and  union  of 
the  soul  with  God,  yet  not  wholly  perfect  if  the  soul  be 
not  wholly  purified  and  clean.  The  following  illustra¬ 
tion  will  make  this  plain  :  conceive  a  picture  painted 
with  exquisite  taste  and  delicate  finish,  the  lines  of 
which  are  so  admirably  formed  that  by  reason  of  their 
singular  fineness  they  can  with  difficulty  be  observed. 
Now,  he  whose  vision  is  imperfect  will  see  only  the  less 
perfect  portions  of  the  picture,  and  he  whose  vision  is 
clearer  Will  see  more  of  its  beauties,  and  another  with 
still  better  eyesight  will  see  more,  and,  finally,  he  whose 
vision  is  the  most  perfect  will  see  the  most  delicate 
excellencies  of  it,  for  the  painting  has  s©  much  beauty 
that  the  more  it  is  observed  the  more  remains  to  be 
seen.  All  this  is  applicable  to  those  souls  who  are 
enlightened  by  God  and  in  Him  transformed.  For 
though  it  be  true  that  every  soul,  according  to  its 
measure,  great  or  little,  may  attain  to  this  union,  yet  all 
do  not  in  an  equal  degree,  but  only  as  our  Lord  shall 
give  unto  each  ;  as  it  is  with  the  blessed  in  heaven, 
there  some  see  God  more  perfectly  than  others,  and  yet 
all  see  Him  and  all  are  satisfied  and  happy,  for  each  one 
is  filled  with  the  vision  according  to  his  merits,  greater 
or  less.  Hence  it  comes  to  pass,  that  though  souls  in 
this  life  enjoy  equal  peace  and  tranquility  in  their  state 
of  perfection,  everyone  being  satisfied,  nevertheless 


82 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  H.J 

some  of  them  may  be  more  advanced  than  the  rest,  in  a 
higher  degree  of  union,  and  yet  all  equally  satisfied 
according  to  their  several  dispositions,  and  the  know¬ 
ledge  they  have  of  God.  But  that  soul  which  does  not 
attain  to  that  degree  of  purity  corresponding  with  the 
light  and  vocation  it  has  received  from  God,  will  never 
obtain  true  peace  and  contentment,  because  it  has  not 
attained  to  that  detachment,  and  emptiness  of  its 
powers,  which  are  requisite  for  pure  union. 


CHAPTER  VI. 

The  three  theological  virtues  perfect  the  powers  of  the  soul,  and 
bring  them  into  a  state  of  emptiness  and  darkness.  Proofs 
from  S.  Luke  and  Isaias. 

Having  now  to  explain  how  the  three  powers  of  the  soul, 
understanding,  memory,  and  will,  are  to  be  brought  into 
this  spiritual  night,  which  is  the  means  of  the  divine  union, 
it  becomes  necessary,  in  the  first  place,  to  discuss  in  this 
chapter  how  the  three  theological  virtues,  faith,  hope, 
and  charity — through  the  instrumentality  of  which  the 
soul  is  united  to  God  in  its  powers — effect  this  emptiness 
and  darkness,  each  one  in  its  own  power :  faith  in  the 
understanding,  hope  in  the  memory,  and  charity  in  the 
will.  Afterwards,  I  shall  show  how  the  understanding 
is  made  perfect  in  the  obscurity  of  faith,  how  the 
memory  is  made  empty  in  hope,  and  how,  also,  the  will 
is  to  withdraw  and  detach  itself  from  every  affection 
that  it  may  ascend  upwards  unto  God.  This  done,  we 
shall  see  clearly  how  necessary  it  is  for  the  soul,  if  it 
will  travel  securely  along  the  spiritual  road,  to  journey 
in  the  dark  night,  leaning  on'  these  three  virtues,  which 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


83 


[CITAP.  VI.] 

make  it  empty  of  all  things  and  blind.  For,  as  I  have 
said,  the  soul  is  not  united  to  God  in  this  life  by  the 
understanding  or  feeling  or  imagination,  or  any  other 
sense  whatever,  but  only  by  faith  in  the  understanding  : 
by  hope,  which  may  be  referred  to  the  memory — 
though  also  to  the  will — in  so  far  as  hope  relates  to  that 
emptiness  and  forgetfulness  of  every  temporal  and 
perishable  thing  which  it  causes,  the  soul  preserving 
itself  entire  for  the  supreme  good  which  it  hopes  for; 
and  by  love,  in  the  will. 

2.  These  three  virtues  render  empty  all  the  powers  of  the 
soul ;  faith  makes  the  understanding  empty  and  blind ; 
hope  takes  everything  away  from  the  memory,  and 
charity  detaches  the  vrill  from  every  pleasure  and  affec¬ 
tion  which  are  not  God.  Faith  teaches  us  what  the 
understanding  cannot  reach  by  the  light  of  nature  and  of 
reason,  being,  as  the  Apostle  saith,  ‘the  substance  of 
things  to  be  hoped  for.’  *  And  though  the  understanding 
firmly  and  certainly  assents  to  them,  yet  it  cannot  dis¬ 
cover  them ;  for  if  the  understanding  discovered  them, 
there  would  be  no  room  for  faith.  And  though  the 
understanding  derives  certainty  from  faith,  yet  it  does 
not  derive  clearness  but  rather  obscurity.  As  to  hope, 
there  is  no  doubt  that  it  renders  the  memory  empty,  and 
brings  darkness  over  it  as  to  all  surrounding  objects,  for 
hope  is  ever  conversant  with  that  which  is  not  in 
possession,  for  if  it  were  already  possessed  there  would 
be  no  place  for  hope ;  because,  as  the  Apostle  saith, 
‘hope  that  is  seen  is  not  hope,  for  what  a  man  seeth  why 
doth  he  hope  for?’f  This  virtue,  then,  makes  empty 

*  Heb.  xi.  I.  t  Rom.  viii.  24. 


THE  ASCENT 


84 


[BOOK  II.] 


also,  for  it  is  the  virtue  of  that  which  is  not  in  possession, 
and  not  of  that  which  is.  Charity,  too,  in  the  same  way 
empties  the  will  of  all  things,  for  it  compels  us  to  love 
God  above  all,  we  cannot  do  without  withdrawing  our 
affections  from  every  object,  to  fix.  them  wholly  upon 
God  Christ  our  Lord  hath  said,  ‘  Every  one  of  you  that 
doth  not  renounce  all  that  he  possesseth  cannot  be  My 
disciple.’  *  Thus  these  virtues  bring  darkness  over  the 
soul,  and  empty  it  of  all  created  things. 

3.  Consider  that  parable  of  our  Lord  recorded  by  S. 
Luke,f  of  the  friend  who  went  out  at  midnight  asking 
for  three  loaves.  These  loaves  are  the  three  theological 
virtues.  They  were  asked  for  at  midnight,  to  teach  us 
that  the  soul  must  dispose  itself  for  perfection  in  these 
virtues  in  darkness  as  to  all  its  powers,  and  that  perfec¬ 
tion  is  to  be  acquired  in  this  night  of  the  spirit. 

4.  The  prophet  Isaias  saw  in  a  vision  two  seraphim  on 
either  side  of  God,  each  of  them  with  six  wings.  With 
two  of  their  wings  they  covered  their  feet.  This  signifies 
the  quenching  and  subduing  of  the  will  in  everything 
for  the  sake  of  God.  With  two  of  their  wings  they 
covered  their  faces ;  this  signifies  the  blindness  of  the 
understanding  in  the  presence  of  God.  With  two  of 
their  wings  they  flew;  this  signifies  the  flight  of  hope 
towards  those  things  which  we  possess  not ;  lifted  up  on 
high  above  all  possession  short  of  God.  ‘  Upon  it  stood 
the  seraphim  :  the  one  had  six  wings,  and  the  other  had 
six  wings ;  with  two  each  covered  his  face,  and  with 
two  each  covered  his  feet,  and  with  two  they  flew.’  + 

We  have,  therefore,  to  lead  these  three  powers  of  the 
*  S.  Luke  xiv.  33.  t  S.  Luke  xi.  5.  +  Is.  vi.  2. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


85 


CHAP.  VI. J 

soul  unto  these  three  virtues ;  informing  the  under¬ 
standing  by  faith,  stripping  the  memory  of  all  that  it 
possesses  by  hope,  and  informing  the  will  by  charity, 
detaching  them  from,  and  making  them  blind  to,  all  that 
is  beside  these  three  virtues. 

5.  This  is  the  spiritual  night  which  1  have  called  the 
active  night ;  because  the  soul  labours,  on  its  own  part, 
to  enter  into  it.  When  I  was  treating  of  the  night  of 
sense,  I  explained  how  that  the  sensual  powers  of  the 
soul  are  to  be  emptied  of  all  sensible  objects  in  the 
desire,  so  that  the  soul  may  go  forth  from  the  beginning 
of  its  course  to  the  middle,  which  is  faith ;  so  now,  while 
speaking  of  the  night  of  the  spirit,  I  shall  also  explain, 
by  the  help  of  God,  how  the  spiritual  powers  of  the 
soul  are  to  be  emptied  and  purified  of  all  that  is  not  God, 
and  remain  in  the  darkness  of  these  three  virtues,  which 
are  the  means  and  dispositions  by  which  the  soul 
becomes  united  with  God.  Herein  is  found  every 
security  against  the  cunning  of  the  devil  and  the 
craftiness  of  self-love  with  all  its  ramifications,  which 
is  wont  most  deeply  to  deceive  and  hinder  the  progress 
of  spiritual  persons,  because  they  do  not  know  how  to  be 
detached,  and  to  guide  their  steps  by  these  virtues.  For 
this  cause  they  never  perfectly  reach  the  substance  and 
pureness  of  spiritual  good,  neither  do  they  journey,  as 
they  might  do,  by  the  straightest  and  the  shortest  road. 
Keep  in  mind,  however,  that  I  am  now  speaking 
specially  of  those  who  have  begun  to  enter  the  state 
of  contemplation.  For,  as  to  beginners,  this  must  be 
discussed  at  greater  length,  which  I  shall  do  when  I 
shall  have  to  treat  of  what  is  peculiar  to  them. 


86 


THE  ASCENT 


[book  n.] 


CHAPTER  VII. 

The  straitness  of  the  way  of  life.  The  detachment  and  freedom 
necessary  for  those  who  walk  in  it.  The  detachment  of  the 
understanding. 

The  pureness  and  detachment  of  the  three  powers  of  the 
soul  require,  for  their  discussion,  greater  knowledge  and 
abilities  than  mine,  so  as  to  enable  spiritual  persons  to 
comprehend  how  strait  the  way  is  that  leadeth  unto 
Life,  and  that,  convinced  of  this,  they  may  not  wonder  at 
the  emptiness  and  detachment  wherein  we  must  abandon, 
in  this  night,  the  three  powers  of  the  soul.  For  this  end 
we  must  ponder  well  the  words  of  our  Lord,  applied  here 
to  the  dark  night,  and  the  way  of  perfection.  Our  Lord 
saith,  ‘How  narrow  is  the  gate  and  strait  is  the  way  that 
leadeth  to  life ;  and  few  there  are  that  find  it.’  *  Con¬ 
sider  the  great  and  significant  import  of  the  word  ‘  how.’ 
It  is  as  if  He  had  said,  ‘  In  truth  it  is  very  narrow,  much 
narrower  than  you  think.’  Consider,  also,  that  He  began 
by  saying,  ‘  Plow  narrow  is  the  gate.’  By  this  He 
teaches  us  that  the  soul  that  will  enter  in  by  the  gate  of 
Christ,  which  is  the  beginning  of  the  road,  must  first  of 
all  constrain  itself,  and  detach  the  will  from  the  things 
of  time  and  sense,  loving  God  above  them  all.  This 
refers  to  the  night  of  the  senses. 

2.  Our  Lord  immediately  adds,  ‘Strait  is  the  way,’  that 
is  of  perfection.  By  this  He  teaches  us  that  He  who  will 
walk  in  the  way  of  perfection  must  not  only  enter 
through  the  narrow  gate,  emptying  himself  of  every¬ 
thing  that  relates  to  sense,  but  must  also  renounce  all 

*  S.  Matt.  vii.  14. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


87 


[CHAP.  VII.] 

that  he  possesses,  laying  a  constraint  upon  himself,  and 
releasing  himself  entirely  from  all  attachment  even  to 
spiritual  things.  Thus  the  narrow  gate  refers  to  the 
sensual  nature  of  man,  and  the  strait  way  to  his  spiritual 
or  rational  nature. 

3.  He  says  also,  ‘Few  there  are  that  find  it.’  Mark 
here  the  reason  of  this,  which  is  that  there  are  but  few 
who  understand  how,  and  desire,  to  enter  into  this 
supreme  detachment  and  emptiness  of  spirit.  For  this 
pathway  up  the  lofty  mountain  of  perfection,  in  that  it 
ascends  upwards  and  is  strait,  requires  that  those  who 
climb  it  should  carry  nothing  with  them  which  shall 
press  them  downwards,  or  embarrass  them  in  their 
ascent  upwards.  And  as  this  is  a  matter  in  which  we 
should  seek  and  aim  after  God  alone ;  so  God  only  ought 
to  be  the  sole  object  of  our  efforts. 

4.  This  clearly  shows  that  the  soul  must  be  not  only 
disentangled  from  all  that  belongs  to  the  creature,  but 
also  detached  and  annihilated  in  the  things  of  the  spirit. 
And  so  our  Lord  teaching  us,  and  guiding  us  into  this 
road,  gives  us  this  wonderful  doctrine,  and  which  is,  if  I 
may  so  say,  the  less  practised  by  spiritual  persons  the 
more  it  is  necessary  for  them.  I  shall  transcribe  it  here, 
Decause  it  is  so  necessary  and  so  much  to  the  purpose, 
and  then  explain  its  real  and  spiritual  meaning.  ‘II 
any  man  will  follow  Me,  let  him  deny  himself,  and  take 
up  his  cross  and  follow  Me.  For  whosoever  will  save 
his  life,  shall  lose  it,  and  whosoever  shall  lose  his  life  for 
My  sake  .  .  .  shall  save  it.’  *  O  that  some  one  would 
teach  us  how  to  understand,  practise,  and  feel  what  is 

*  S.  Mark  viii.  34,  35. 


88  THE  ASCENT  [BOOK  II. J 

involved  in  this  profound  lesson  of  self-denial  given  us 
by  our  Lord  Himself,  that  spiritual  persons  may  perceive 
how  different,  on  this  road,  their  conduct  ought  to  be 
from  that  which  many  of  them  think  to  be  right !  Some 
consider  any  kind  of  retirement  from  the  world,  and  any 
correction  of  excesses  to  be  sufficient ;  others  are  content 
with  a  certain  degree  of  virtue,  persevere  in  prayer  and 
practise  mortification,  but  they  do  not  rise  to  this 
detachment,  and  poverty,  or  self-denial,  or  spiritual 
pureness — all  these  are  one — which  our  Saviour  here 
recommends,  because  they  nourish  and  clothe  their 
natural  self  with  consolations,  instead  of  detaching 
themselves  therefrom,  and  denying  themselves  in  all 
things  for  God.  They  think  it  enough  to  deny  them¬ 
selves  in  the  things  of  this  world,  without  annihilating 
themselves,  and  purging  away  all  self-seeking  in  spiritual 
things.  Hence  it  comes  to  pass,  that  when  any  of  this 
solid  devotion  presents  itself  to  them,  which  consists  in 
the  annihilation  of  all  sweetness  in  God,  in  dryness,  in 
distaste,  in  trouble,  which  is  the  real  spiritual  cross,  and 
the  nakedness  of  the  spiritual  poverty  of  Christ,  they  run 
away  from  it  as  from  death  itself.  They  seek  only  for 
delights,  for  sweet  communications,  and  satisfactions  in 
God,  but  this  is  not  self-denial,  nor  detachment  of  spirit, 
but  rather  spiritual  gluttony.  They  render  themselves 
spiritually  enemies  of  the  cross  of  Christ,  for  true 
spirituality  seeks  for  bitterness  rather  than  sweetness  in 
God,  inclines  to  suffering  more  than  to  consolation,  and 
to  be  in  want  of  everything  for  God  rather  than  to 
possess ;  to  dryness  and  afflictions  rather  than  to  sweet 
communications,  knowing  well  that  this  is  to  follow 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


89 


[chap,  vn.] 

Christ  and  deny  self,  while  the  other  course  is  perhaps 
nothing  but  to  seek  oneself  in  God,  which  is  the  very 
opposite  of  love.  For  to  seek  self  in  God  is  to  seek  for 
comfort  and  refreshment  from  God.  But  to  seek  God  in 
Himself  is  not  only  to  be  willingly  deprived  of  this  thing 
and  of  that  for  God,  but  to  incline  ourselves  to  will  and 
choose  for  Christ’s  sake  whatever  is  most  disagreeable, 
whether  proceeding  from  God  or  from  the  world ;  this  is 
to  love  God. 

5.  O  who  can  tell  us  how  far  God  wills  that  this  self- 
renunciation  should  reach !  In  truth  it  should  be  as 
death,  a  temporal,  natural,  and  spiritual  annihilation  in 
all  things  which  the  will  esteems ;  herein  is  all  our  gain. 
This  is  the  meaning  of  our  Saviour  when  He  said,  ‘  Who¬ 
soever  will  save  his  life  shall  lose  it ;  ’  *  that  is,  whoso¬ 
ever  will  possess,  or  seek  anything  for  himself,  he  shall 
lose  it.  ‘  Whosoever  shall  lose  his  life  for  My  sake, 
shall  save  it ;  ’  that  is,  whosoever  shall  renounce  for  the 
sake  of  Christ  whatever  is  pleasing  to  his  own  will, 
choosing  rather  the  cross — to  which  our  Lord  referred 
when  He  said,  ‘  He  that  hateth  his  life  ’  f — he  shall  gain 
it. 

6.  Our  Lord  taught  this  same  truth  to  the  two  disciples 
who  asked  that  they  might  be  admitted  to  sit  on  His 
right  hand  and  on  His  left.  Lie  gave  no  encouragement 
to  them  in  the  matter  of  their  petition,  but  offered  them 
the  chalice  which  He  was  about  to  drink  Himself,  as 
something  more  safe  and  more  precious  on  earth  than 
the  dignity  which  they  sought.  This  chalice  is  the  death 
of  our  natural  self  by  detachment  from  all  that  relates  to 

*  S.  Mark  viii.  35.  t  S.  John  xii,  25. 


90 


THE  ASCENT 


[book  n.] 

sense,  as  I  have  already  said,  and  from  all  that  relates  to 
the  spirit,  as  I  shall  explain  hereafter,  so  that  we  may 
journey  onwards  on  this  strait  way,  that  is,  detachment 
from  our  own  understanding,  sense,  and  feelings,  and  in 
such  a  manner  that  the  soul  shall  renounce  itself  both  in 
sense  and  spirit,  and  more,  so  that  it  may  not  be 
hindered  even  by  the  things  of  the  spirit  on  the  narrow 
road.  For  this  road  admits  only  of  self-denial— as  our 
Lord  declares — and  the  cross,  which  is  our  staff  to  lean 
on,  and  which  lightens  the  road  and  makes  it  easy. 
Thus  our  Lord  hath  said :  ‘  My  yoke  is  sweet,  and  My 
burden  light.’*  This  burden  is  the  cross.  For  if  we  are 
determined  to  submit  ourselves,  and  to  carry  the  cross — 
this  is  nothing  else  but  an  earnest  resolution  to  seek 
and  endure  it  in  everything  for  God — we  shall  find  great 
refreshment  and  sweetness  therein  to  enable  us  to  travel 
along  this  road,  thus  detached  from  all  things,  desiring 
nothing.  But  if  we  cling  to  anything  whatever,  whether 
it  come  from  God  or  from  the  world,  we  are  not  journey¬ 
ing  in  detachment  and  self-denial,  and  so  we  shall  miss 
our  way,  and  never  be  able  ’  to  ascend  by  the  narrow 
path. 

7.  Would  that  I  could  persuade  spiritual  persons  that  the 
way  of  God  consisteth  not  in  the  multiplicity  of  medita¬ 
tions,  ways  of  devotion  or  sweetness,  though  these  may 
be  necessary  for  beginners,  but  in  one  necessary  thing 
only,  in  knowing  how  to  deny  themselves  in  earnest, 
inwardly  and  outwardly,  giving  themselves  up  to  suffer 
for  Christ’s  sake,  and  annihilating  themselves  utterly. 
He  who  shall  exercise  himself  herein,  will  then  find  all 

*  S.  Matt.  xi.  30, 


[CHAP.  VII.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL.  91 

this  and  much  more.  And  if  he  be  deficient  at  all  in  this 
exercise,  which  is  the  sum  and  root  of  all  virtue,  all  he 
may  do  will  be  but  beating  the  air ; — utterly  profitless, 
notwithstanding  great  meditations  and  communications. 
There  is  no  progress  but  in  the  following  of  Christ,  Who 
is  the  way,  the  truth,  and  the  life.  ‘  I  am  the  way/  saith 
He,  ‘  and  the  truth,  and  the  life.  No  man  cometh  to  the 
Father  but  by  Me.’*  And  again,  ‘lam  the  door.  By 
Me  if  any  man  enter  in  he  shall  be  saved.’ f  That 
spirituality,  therefore,  which  would  travel  in  sweetness 
at  its  ease,  shunning  the  following  of  Christ,  is,  in  my 
opinion,  nothing  worth. 

8.  And  now,  having  said  that  Christ  is  the'way,  and  that 
the  way  is  to  die  to  our  natural  self  in  all  that  relates  to 
sense  and  spirit,  I  proceed  to  explain  how  it  is  to  be  done 
in  imitation  of  Christ,  for  He  is  our  light  and  our 
example.  In  the  first  place,  it  is  certain  that  He  died 
spiritually  while  on  earth  to  all  things  belonging  to 
sense,  and  naturally  at  death  ;  ‘  The  Son  of  man,’  saith 
He,  ‘hath  not  where  to  lay  His  head.’*  And  when 
He  died  it  was  the  same.  In  the  second  place,  it 
is  certain  that  at  the  hour  of  death  His  soul  was  deso¬ 
late  and,  as  it  were,  brought  to  nothing,  forsaken  of 
His  Father,  left  without  comfort  in  the  most  distressing 
dryness,  so  that  He  cried  out  on  the  cross,  ‘  My  God,  my 
God,  why  hast  thou  forsaken  Me  ?  ’  §  This  was  the 
greatest  sensible  abandonment  of  His  whole  life ;  and  it 
was  then  that  He  wrought  the  greatest  work  of  His 
whole  life  of  miracles  and  of  wonders,  the  reconciliation 

*  S.  John  xiv.  6.  t  lb.  x.  g. 

J  S.  Matt.  viii.  20.  §  S.  Matt,  xxvii  46. 


92 


THE  ASCENT 


[book  n.] 

and  union  with  God  by  grace  of  all  mankind.  This  He 
accomplished  at  that  very  moment  when  He  was  most 
annihilated  in  all  things,  brought  lowest  in  the  estima¬ 
tion  of  men,  for  when  they  saw  Him  dying  on  the 
ignominious  tree,  they  showed  Him  no  reverence,  yea, 
rather  they  stood  by  and  derided  Him.  Then,  too,  was 
He  brought  lowest  in  His  very  nature,  for  that  was  as  it 
were  annihilated  when  He  died ;  and  as  to  the  protection 
and  consolation  of  His  Father  also,  for  He  was  then 
forsaken  that  He  might  pay  our  debt  to  the  utmost,  and 
unite  us  with  God,  being  Himself  annihilated  and,  as  it 
were,  brought  to  nothing.  Therefore  it  is  that  the 
Psalmist  saith  of  Him,  ‘  I  am  brought  to  nothing,  and  I 
knew  not.’  *  This  is  for  the  instruction  of  the  truly 
spiritual  man  in  the  mystery  of  the  gate  and  way  ot 
Christ,  that  he  may  become  united  with  God,  and  also  to 
teach  him  that  the  more  he  annihilates  self  for  God,  in 
sense  and  spirit,  the  more  will  he  be  united  with  God, 
and  the  g'reater  the  work  he  will  accomplish.  And  when 
he  shall  have  been  brought  to  nothing,  when  his  humility 
is  perfect,  then  will  take  place  the  union  of  the  soul  and 
God,  which  is  the  highest  and  noblest  estate  attainable 
in  this  life.  This  consisteth  not  in  spiritual  refreshments, 
sweetness,  or  sentiments,  but  in  the  living  death  of  the 
cross,  sensually  and  spiritually,  outwardly  and  inwardly. 

9.  I  will  not  proceed  further  with  this  subject,  though  I 
could  pursue  it  indefinitely;  for  I  see  that  Jesus  Christ  is 
but  little  known  by  those  who  consider  themselves  His 
friends.  These,  loving  themselves  very  much,  seek  in 
Him  their  own  comfort  and  satisfaction,  and  not  His 

*  Fs.  Ixxii.  22. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


93 


[chap,  viii.] 

suffering's  and  death  for  love  of  Him.  I  am  now  speaking 
of  those  who  think  themselves  His  friends,  not  of  those 
who  live  at  a  great  distance  from  Him  ;  men  of  learning 
and  of  dignity,  and  others  who  live  in  the  world,  slaves 
of  ambition  and  of  honours — of  these,  we  may  say,  they 
know  not  Christ;  and  their  end,  however  good,  will  be 
full  of  anguish.  I  am  not  speaking  of  these,  but  they  will 
be  remembered  in  the  day  of  judgment,  for  ‘to  them  it 
behoveth  us  first  to  speak  the  word  of  God,’  *  as  to 
persons  whom  He  has  set  up  as  guides  to  others,  by 
reason  of  their  learning  and  exalted  rank. 

10.  But  let  me  now  address  myself  to  the  understanding 
of  the  spiritual  man,  and  in  an  especial  manner  to  him 
whom  God  in  His  goodness  has  raised  up  to  the  state  of 
contemplation — for  I  address  myself  now  particularly  to 
him — and  instruct  him  how  he  is  to  direct  himself  in  the 
way  of  God  by  faith,  and  purify  himself  from  all  contrary 
things,  girding  up  his  loins  that  he  may  enter  on  this 
narrow  path  of  obscure  contemplation. 


CHAPTER  VIII. 

No  creature,  no  knowledge,  comprehensible  by  the  understanding, 
can  subserve  as  proximate  means  of  union  with  God. 

Before  I  discuss  the  proper  and  fitting  means  of  union 
with  God,  which  is  faith,  it  is  right  that  I  should  show 
how  that  no  created,  or  imagined,  thing  can  subserve 
the  understanding  as  a  proper  means  for  its  union  with 
God;  and  how  everything  which  the  understanding 


*  Acts  xiii.  46. 


94 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  lJ.  ] 

embraces,  if  it  does  but  cleave  to  it,  becomes  a  hindrance 
instead  of  a  help.  In  this  chapter  I  shall  show  this  in 
general,  and  afterwards  I  shall  do  so  in  particular,  going 
through  all  sorts  of  knowledge  which  the  understanding 
may  receive  through  the  senses,  both  exterior  and 
interior  ;  and  then  the  inconveniences  and  losses  it  may 
sustain  through  all  such  knowledge,  because  it  does 
not  proceed  in  reliance  on  the  proper  means,  which  is 
the  faith. 

2.  It  is  a  principle  of  philosophy  that  all  means  must  be 
proportionate  to  the  end,  having  a  certain  fitness,  and 
resemblance  to  it,  such  as  shall  be  sufficient  for  the  ob¬ 
ject  in  view.  For  instance,  a  person  wishes  to  reach  a 
certain  city  :  he  must  necessarily  travel  along  the  road, 
which  is  the  means,  leading  to  it.  Likewise,  if  you  wish 
to  combine  and  unite  together  wood  and  fire,  in  that  case, 
it  is  requisite  that  heat,  that  is  the  means,  should  so  dis¬ 
pose  the  wood,  and  raise  it  to  such  a  degree  of  heat  that 
it  shall  have  a  great  resemblance  and  proportion  to  fire. 
If  you  attempt  this  by  any  other  than  the  proper  means, 
which  is  heat,  as,  for  instance,  by  air,  water,  or  earth,  it 
will  be  impossible  to  unite  wood  with  fire.  So,  therefore, 
if  the  understanding  is  to  be  united  with  God,  so  far  as 
that  is  possible  in  this  life,  it  must,  of  necessity,  make 
use  of  those  means  which  can  effect  that  union,  and  which 
are  most  like  unto  God. 

3.  But  remember,  among  all  creatures,  the  highest  and 
the  lowest,  there  is  not  one  that  comes  near  unto  God,  or 
that  bears  any  likeness  to  His  substance.  For,  though 
it  be  true,  as  theologians  tell  us,  that  all  creatures  bear  a 
certain  relation  to  God,  and  are  tokens  of  His  being, 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


95 


[chap,  vm.] 

some  more,  some  less,  according  to  the  greater  or  less 
Derfection  of  their  nature,  yet  there  is  no  essential  likeness 
or  communion  between  them  and  Him  ;  yea,  rather  the 
distance  between  His  divine  nature  and  their  nature  is 
infinite.  Hence,  then,  it  is  impossible  for  the  understand- 
ing  to  attain  perfectly  unto  God,  by  means  of  created 
things,  whether  of  heaven  or  of  earth,  because  there  is 
no  proportion  of  similitude  between  them.  Thus  David, 
speaking  of  the  heavenly  host,  cries  out  :  ‘  There  is  none 
among  the  gods  like  unto  Thee,  O  Lord.'*  The  ‘  gods  ’ 
are  the  holy  angels  and  the  souls  of  the  saints.  And 
again,  ‘  Thy  way,  O  God,  is  in  the  holy  place;  who  is 
the  great  God  like  our  God  ?  ’  f  That  is,  the  way  to  Thee, 
O  God,  is  a  holy  way,  namely,  pureness  of  faith.  ‘  Who 
is  the  great  God  like  our  God  ’  r  Who  is  the  saint 
so  high  in  glory,  or  the  angel  so  exalted  by  nature, 
that  can  be  a  way  proportionate  and  sufficient  for 
us  to  attain  unto  God  ?  The  same  prophet  speaking  o  1 
the  things  of  heaven  and  earth  together,  saith,  ‘  the  Lord 
is  high  and  looketh  on  the  low,  and  the  high  He  knoweth 
afar  off.’  +  That  is,  God  high  in  His  own  being,  seeth 
that  the  things  of  the  earth  are  in  themselves  most  vile 
and  low,  in  comparison  with  Himself ;  and  ‘  the  high,’ 
the  heavenly  host,  He  knoweth  to  be  far  distant  from 
Him.  No  creature,  therefore,  can  be  a  proportionate 
means  of  perfect  union  with  God. 

4.  So  also  nothing  that  the  imagination  may  conceive  or 
the  understanding  comprehend,  in  this  life,  is  or  can  be 
a  proximate  means  of  union  with  God.  For  if  we  speak 
ot  natural  knowledge  ;  the  understanding  is  incapable  of 

*  Ps.  lxxxv.  8,  t  Ibid,  lxxvj.  14.  t  Ibid,  cxxxvii.  6. 


96 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  U.] 

comprehending  anything  unless  it  be  presented  to  it 
under  forms  and  images  by  the  bodily  senses  ;  and  these 
forms  of  things,  as  I  have  already  said,  cannot  serve  as 
means,  and  no  natural  acts  of  the  understanding  can  in 
any  way  contribute  thereto. 

5.  Again,  if  we  speak  of  supernatural  acts — as  far  as  pos¬ 
sible  in  this  life — the  understanding  in  its  bodily  prison 
has  neither  the  disposition  nor  the  capacity  requisite  for 
the  reception  of  the  clear  knowledge  of  God.  This  know¬ 
ledge  is  not  of  this  life,  for  we  must  either  die,  or  remain 
without  it.  Thus  God  said  to  Moses,  ‘  Man  shall  not  see 
Me  and  live.’*  And  S.  John  saith  the  same,  ‘No  man 
hath  seen  God  at  any  time.’  f  St  Paul,  too,  repeats  the 
words  of  Isaias,  ‘Eye  hath  not  seen,  nor  ear  heard, 
neither  hath  it  entered  into  the  heart  of  man.’  +  This  is 
the  reason  why  Moses  at  the  bush  ‘  durst  not  behold,’  § 
God  being  there  present.  He  knew  that  no  contempla¬ 
tion  of  God  by  his  understanding  could  be  fitting  though 
that  sprung  from  the  deep  sense  he  had  of  God.  Elias, 
our  father,  covered  his  face  on  the  mountain,  in  the  pres¬ 
ence  of  God.  ||  By  that  action  he  taught  us  that  he  made 
his  understanding  blind,  not  venturing  to  apply  an  instru¬ 
ment  so  vile  to  a  matter  so  high  ;  and  that  he  perceived 
clearly,  that  however  much  he  saw  or  understood,  all 
would  be  most  unlike  unto  God,  and  far  distant  from 
Him. 

6.  No  knowledge,  therefore,  and  no  conceptions  in  this 
mortal  life  can  serve  as  proximate  means  of  this  high 
union  of  the  love  of  God.  All  that  the  understanding 

*  Exod.  xxxiii.  20.  +  S.  John  t.  iS.  +  i  Cor.  ii.  9  ;  I  .  lxiv.  4. 

§  Acts  vii.  32  ;  Ex.  iii.  6.  U  3  Kings  xix.  1 1. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


97 


[CHAP.  VIII.] 

may  comprehend ;  all  that  the  will  may  be  satisfied 
with;  and  all  that  the  imagination  may  conceive,  is  most 
unlike  unto  God,  and  most  disproportionate  to  Him. 
This  truth  is  admirably  expressed  by  the  prophet :  ‘  To 
whom  then  have  you  likened  God  ?  or  what  image  will 
you  make  for  Him  ?  Hath  the  workman  cast  a  graven 
statue  ?  or  hath  the  goldsmith  formed  it  with  gold,  or  the 
silversmith  with  plates  of  silver?’  *  The  workman  is  the 
understanding  which  fashions  our  knowledge,  and 
cleanses  it  from  the  iron  of  impressions  and  fancy.  The 
goldsmith  is  the  will,  which  is  capable  of  receiving  the 
forms  and  figures  of  pleasure  caused  by  the  gold  of  love 
wherewith  it  loves.  The  silversmith  which  cannot  repre¬ 
sent  God  with  plates  of  silver,  is  the  memory  with  the 
imagination,  the  notions  and  conceptions  of  which  are 
well  described  as  plates  of  silver.  The  prophet  then 
says,  in  other  words  :  The  understanding,  by  speculation, 
cannot  comprehend  anything  which  is  like  unto  God ; 
no  delight,  no  satisfaction  of  the  will  can  resemble  that 
which  is  God ;  nor  can  the  memory  furnish  the  imagina¬ 
tion  with  any  notions  or  images  to  represent  Him.  It 
is  evident,  then,  from  this  that  the  understanding  cannot 
be  immediately  directed  in  the  way  of  God  by  any 
knowledge  such  as  this,  and  that,  if  it  is  to  draw  near 
unto  God,  it  must  do  so  by  not  understanding  rather 
than  by  seeking  to  understand ;  yea,  rather  it  must  be 
by  making  itself  blind,  covering  itself  with  darkness, 
and  not  by  opening  its  eyes,  that  it  can  attain  to  the 
divine  enlightening.  Hence  it  is  that  contemplation, 
by  which  God  enlightens  the  understanding,  is  called 

*  Is.  xl.  i8,  19. 

u 


98 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  n.] 

mystical  theology,  that  is,  the  secret  wisdom  of  God, 
because  it  is  a  secret  even  to  the  understanding  which  re¬ 
ceives  it.  St.  Dionysius  calls  it  a  ray  of  darkness.  And  the 
prophet  Baruch  thus  speaks  of  it :  ‘  The  way  of  wisdom 
they  have  not  known,  neither  have  they  remembered 
her  paths.’*  It  is  therefore  clear  that  the  understanding 
must  be  blind,  as  to  every  path  along  which  it  has  to 
travel,  in  order  to  be  united  with  God. 

7.  Aristotle  says,  that  as  the  eyes  of  the  bat  are  with 
regard  to  the  sun,  which  wholly  blinds  them,  so  is  our 
understanding  with  regard  to  the  greater  light  of  God, 
which  is  to  us  perfect  darkness.  He  further  says,  that  the 
more  profound  and  the  clearer  the  things  of  God  are  in 
themselves,  the  less  intelligible  and  the  more  obscure 
they  are  to  us.  The  Apostle  says  the  same  thing,  when 
he  teaches  us  that  the  deep  things  of  God  are  not  known 
unto  men.  I  should  never  end  were  I  to  bring  forward 
here  all  the  authorities  and  reasons  which  show  that, 
among  all  created  things  of  which  the  understanding 
takes  cognisance,  there  is  nothing  which  can  serve  as  a 
ladder  whereby  it  may  ascend  unto  God,  Who  is  so 
high.  Yea,  rather  we  must  acknowledge  that  all  and 
each  of  these  things,  if  the  understanding  will  use  them 
as  proximate  means  of  union,  will  prove  not  only  a 
hindrance,  but  the  source  of  many  errors  and  delusions, 
in  the  ascent  of  the  mount. 


Baruch  iii.  25. 


[CHAP.  IX.] 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


99 


CHAPTER  IX. 

Faith  is  the  proximate  and  proportionate  means  of  the  under¬ 
standing  by  which  the  soul  may  attain  to  the  divine  union  of 
love.  Proofs  from  the  Holy  Scriptures. 

It  appears  then  from  what  I  have  written  that  the  under¬ 
standing,  if  rightly  disposed  for  the  divine  union,  must 
be  pure,  and  empty  of  all  sensible  objects,  disengaged 
from  all  clear  intellectual  perceptions,  inwardly  tranquil 
and  still,  resting  on  faith ;  for  faith  is  the  sole  proximate 
and  proportionate  means  of  the  soul’s  union  with  God, 
seeing  that  there  is  no  other  alternative,  but  that  God  is 
either  seen,  or  believed  in.  For  as  God  is  infinite,  so 
faith  proposes  Him  as  infinite;  and  as  He  is  Three  and 
One,  so  faith  proposes  Him  to  us  as  Three  and  One. 
And  thus  by  this  means  alone,  that  is  faith,  God  manifests 
Himself  to  the  soul  in  the  divine  light,  which  surpasses 
all  understanding,  and  therefore  the  greater  the  faith  ot 
the  soul  the  more  is  that  soul  united  to  God.  This  is  the 
meaning  of  St.  Paul  when  he  said,  ‘  He  that  cometh  to 
God  must  believe  that  He  is.’*  Such  an  one  must  walk 
by  faith,  with  his  understanding  in  darkness,  and  in  the 
obscurity  of  faith  only ;  for  in  this  darkness  God  unites 
Himself  to  the  understanding,  being  Himself  hidden  in  it, 
as  it  is  written  :  ‘Darkness  was  under  Plis  feet,  and  He 
ascended  upon  the  cherubim,  and  He  flew  upon  the  wings 
of  the  winds.  And  He  made  darkness  His  covert,  His 
pavilion  round  about  Him,  dark  waters  in  the  clouds  of 
the  air.’t  The  darkness  ‘under  His  feet,’  serving  for 
‘  His  covert '  and  ‘  His  pavilion,’  and  ‘  the  dark  waters,' 

*  Hcbr.  xi.  6.  t  Ps.  xvii.  10—12. 

H2 


100  TIIE  ASCENT  [BOOK  II.] 

signify  the  obscurity  of  faith,  which  conceals  Him.  His 
‘ascending  on  the  cherubim,’  and  His  flying  ‘on  the 
wings  of  the  winds,’  signify  that  He  transcends  all  under¬ 
standing.  The  ‘  cherubim  ’  mean  those  who  understand 
or  contemplate ;  the  ‘  wings  of  the  winds  ’  are  the  sublime 
and  lofty  notions  or  conceptions  of  the  mind,  above 
which  His  divine  being  is,  which  no  man  can  ever 
comprehend. 

2.  This  truth  is  shadowed  forth  in  the  Holy  Scriptures, 
where  we  read  that,  when  Solomon  had  finished  the 
temple,  God  came  down  in  a  cloud,  which  filled  it,  so 
that  the  people  could  not  see.  ‘Then  Solomon  said: 
The  Lord  said  that  He  would  dwell  in  a  cloud.’*  Moses 
also,  on  the  mount,  saw  a  cloud  wherein  God  was  hidden. f 
And  at  all  times,  when  God  communicated  with  men,  He 
appeared  through  a  cloud.  We  read  in  the  book  of  Job, 
that  God  spoke  out  of  the  darkened  air :  ‘  The  Lord 
answered  Job  out  of  a  whirlwind.’*  These  clouds  signify 
the  obscurity  of  faith,  in  which  God  is  hidden  when  He 
communicates  Himself  to  the  soul.  This  will  be  removed 
at  that  time  to  which  St.  Paul  referred  when  he  said, 
‘  When  that  which  is  perfect  is  come,  that  which  is  in 
part  shall  be  done  away  ;’§  when  ‘that  which  is  in  part,’ 
the  obscurity  of  faith,  shall  be  done  away,  and  when 
‘  that  which  is  perfect,’  the  divine  light,  shall  come. 

3.  This  is  prefigured  in  the  army  of  Gedeon :  the 
soldiers  had  lamps  in  their  hands,  which  they  saw  not, 
because  they  were  ‘  within  the  pitchers.’  But  when  they 
had  broken  the  pitchers  the  lamps  gave  light.  Gedeon 

*  3  Kings  viii.  10—12.  +  Exod.  xix.  9. 

♦  Job.  xxxviii.  I  ;  xl.  1.  §  1  Cor.  xiii.  10. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


101 


[CHAP.  X.] 

1  gave  them  trumpets  in  their  hands,  and  empty  pitchers, 
and  lamps  within  the  pitchers.’  *  So  faith,  of  which  these 
pitchers  were  a  figure,  contains  the  divine  light,  that  is 
the  truth  which  God  is ;  and  at  the  end  of  this  mortal 
life,  when  the  work  of  faith  is  done,  and  the  pitchers 
broken,  the  light  and  glory  of  God  will  then  shine  forth. 

4.  It  is  therefore  plain  that  the  soul,  which  would  in  this 
life  be  united  with  God  and  commune  immediately  with 
Him,  must  unite  itself  to  Him  in  the  cloud  where,  accord¬ 
ing  to  Solomon,  He  has  promised  to  dwell ;  and  in  the 
obscure  air,  wherein  He  was  pleased  to  reveal  His 
secrets  to  Job  ;  and  take  up  the  pitchers  of  Gedeon,  that 
it  may  hold  in  its  hands,  in  the  acts  of  the  will,  that 
light  which  is  the  union  of  love — though  in  the  obscurity 
of  faith— so  that,  as  soon  as  the  pitcher  of  life  be  broken, 
it  may  see  God  face  to  face  in  glory. 

5.  It  remains  for  me  now  to  describe  particularly  those 
notions  and  apprehensions  which  the  understanding  can 
admit ;  the  hindrance  and  the  injury  they  can  do  in  the 
way  of  faith ;  and  how  the  soul  must  be  disposed  with 
respect  to  them,  so  that  they  may  be  profitable  rather 
than  hurtful,  both  those  which  proceed  from  the  senses 
as  well  as  those  which  proceed  from  the  spirit 


CHAPTER  X. 

The  divisions  of  the  apprehensions  and  acts  of  the 
understanding. 

In  order  to  describe  specially  the  gain  and  the  loss 
which  the  notions  and  apprehensions  of  the  understand- 

*  Judg.  vii.  i$, 


102 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  it] 

ing  occasion  in  the  soul  with  respect  to  faith,  the  means 
of  the  divine  union,  it  is  necessary  to  distinguish  here 
between  all  these  apprehensions,  natural  and  super¬ 
natural,  so  that  the  understanding  may  be  directed  with 
greater  accuracy  into  the  night  and  obscurity  of  faith. 
This  I  shall  do  with  the  utmost  brevity  possible. 

2.  There  are  two  ways  by  which  these  notions  and 
intelligent  acts  enter  into  the  understanding;  one  is 
natural,  the  other  supernatural.  The  first  includes  all 
the  means  by  which  the  understanding  receives  know¬ 
ledge,  whether  through  the  channel  of  the  bodily  senses, 
or  by  reflection.  The  second  comprises  all  that  is 
beyond  the  natural  powers  and  capacity  of  the  under¬ 
standing.  Some  supernatural  knowledge  is  corporeal, 
and  some  spiritual.  The  former  is  of  two  kinds  ;  one 
of  them  enters  the  understanding  through  the  exterior 
bodily  senses  ;  and  the  other  through  the  interior  bodily 
senses,  comprehending  all  that  the  imagination  may 
grasp,  form,  and  conceive.  The  spiritual  supernatural 
knowledge  is  also  of  two  kinds  j  one  distinct  and  special ; 
the  other  confused,  obscure,  and  general.  The  first 
kind  comprises  four  particular  apprehensions,  com¬ 
municated  to  the  mind  without  the  intervention  of  any 
one  of  the  bodily  senses.  These  are  visions,  revelations, 
locutions,  and  spiritual  impressions.  The  second  kind, 
which  is  obscure  and  general,  has  but  one  form,  that  of 
contemplation,  which  is  the  work  of  faith.  The  soul  is  to 
be  led  into  this  by  directing  it  thereto  through  all  the 
reit,  beginning  with  the  first  and  detaching  it  from 
them. 


|  CHAP.  XI.'J 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


103 


CHAPTER  XI. 

Of  the  hurt  and  hindrance  resulting  from  apprehensions  of  the 
understanding  supernaturally  produced  through  the  instru¬ 
mentality  of  the  outward  senses.  How  the  soul  is  to  be 
guided  under  such  circumstances. 

The  first  notions,  mentioned  in  the  foregoing  chapter, 
are  those  which  relate  to  the  understanding  in  the  order 
of  nature.  I  shall  not  speak  of  them  now,  because  I 
have  discussed  them  in  the  first  book,  while  showing 
how  the  soul  is  to  be  led  into  the  night  of  sense,  where 
I  have  given  fitting  directions  concerning  them.  And 
therefore  the  subject  of  the  present  chapter  will  be  those 
notions  and  apprehensions  which  relate  to  the  under¬ 
standing  solely  in  the  supernatural  order,  in  the  way  of 
the  outward  bodily  senses  of  seeing,  hearing,  tasting, 
smelling,  and  touching.  With  respect  to  all  these, 
spiritual  men  are  occasionally  liable  to  representations 
and  objects,  set  before  them  in  a  supernatural  way. 
They  sometimes  see  the  forms  and  figures  of  those  of 
another  life,  saints,  or  angels  good  and  evil,  or  certain 
extraordinary  lights  and  brightness.  They  hear  strange 
words,  sometimes  seeing  those  who  utter  them,  and 
sometimes  not.  They  have  a  sensible  perception 
at  times  of  most  sweet  odours,  without  knowing  whence 
they  proceed.  Their  sense  of  taste  is  also  deliciously 
affected;  and  that  of  the  touch  so  sweetly  caressed  at 
times  that  the  bones  and  the  marrow  exult  and  rejoice, 
bathed,  as  it  were,  in  joy.  This  delight  is  like  to  that 
which  we  call  the  unction  of  the  Spirit,  flowing  from 


104 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.] 

Him  through  all  the  senses  of  simple  souls.  And  this 
sensible  sweetness  is  wont  to  affect  spiritual  persons, 
because  of  that  sensible  devotion,  more  or  less,  which 
they  have,  every  one  in  his  own  measure. 

2.  Still,  though  all  these  may  happen  to  the  bodily 
senses  in  the  way  of  God,  we  must  never  rely  on  them, 
nor  encourage  them  ;  yea,  rather  we  must  fly  from  them, 
without  examining  whether  they  be  good  or  evil.  For, 
inasmuch  as  they  are  exterior  and  in  the  body,  there  is 
the  less  certainty  of  their  being  from  God.  It  is  more 
natural  that  God  should  communicate  Himself  through 
the  spirit— wherein  there  is  greater  security  and  profit 
for  the  soul— than  through  the  senses,  wherein  there  is 
usually  much  danger  and  delusion,  because  the  bodily 
sense  decides  upon,  and  judges,  spiritual  things, 
thinking  them  to  be  what  itself  feels  them  to  be,  when  in 
reality  they  are  as  different  as  body  and  soul,  sensuality 
and  reason.  The  bodily  sense  is  as  ignorant  of  spiritual 
things  as  a  beast  of  the  field  is  of  the  things  of 
reason.  He  who  makes  much  of  them  mistakes  his  way, 
and  exposes  himself  to  the  great  danger  of  delusions ; 
and,  at  least,  places  a  great  obstacle  on  his  road  to  true 
spirituality.  For  all  these  bodily  matters  bear  n*s 
proportion  to  spiritual  things. 

3.  There  is  always  ground  for  fear  that  they  proceed 
from  the  devil  rather  than  from  God  ;  for  the  devil  has 
more  influence  in  that  which  is  exterior  and  corporeal, 
and  can  more  easily  deceive  us  therein  than  in  what  is 
more  interior.  And  these  bodily  forms  and  objects,  the 
more  exterior  they  are,  the  less  do  they  profit  the 
interior  spiritual  man,  by  reason  of  the  great  distance 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


105 


[CHAP.  XI.] 

and  disproportion  subsisting  between  the  corporeal 
and  the  spiritual.  F or,  although  these  things  communi¬ 
cate  some  spirituality,  as  is  always  the  case  when  they 
proceed  from  God,  yet  it  is  much  less  than  it  would 
have  been,  had  they  been  more  spiritual  and  interior  ; 
and  thus  they  become  more  easily  and  readily  occasions 
of  error,  presumption,  and  vanity.  As  they  are  so 
palpable  and  so  material  they  excite  the  senses  greatly, 
and  the  soul  is  led  to  consider  them  the  more  important, 
the  more  they  are  felt.  It  runs  after  them  and  abandons 
the  secure  guidance  of  faith,  thinking  that  the  light  they 
give  is  a  guide  and  means  to  that  which  it  desires,  union 
with  God.  Thus  the  soul,  the  more  it  makes  of  such 
things,  the  more  it  strays  from  the  perfect  way  and 
means,  that  is,  the  faith.  Besides,  when  the  soul  perceives 
itself  subject  to  these  extraordinary  visitations,  self-esteem 
very  frequently  enters  in,  and  it  thinks  itself  to  be  some¬ 
thing  in  the  eyes  of  God,  which  is  contrary  to  humility. 
The  devil  also  knows  too  well  how  to  insinuate  into  the 
soul  a  secret,  and  sometimes  an  open,  self-satisfaction. 
For  this  end  he  frequently  presents  to  the  eyes  the  forms 
of  saints,  and  most  beautiful  lights  ;  he  causes  voices  well 
dissembled  to  strike  the  ear,  and  delicious  odours  the 
smell ;  he  produces  sweetness  in  the  mouth,  and  thrills  of 
pleasure  in  the  sense  of  touch  ;  and  all  to  make  us  long 
for  such  things  that  he  may  lead  us  astray  into  much 
evil. 

4.  For  this  reason,  then,  we  must  always  reject  and 
disregard  these  representations  and  sensations.  For 
even  if  some  of  them  were  from  God,  no  wrong  is  offered 
to  Him,  because  the  effect  and  fruit,  which  He  desires 


106 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.] 


to  bring-  forth  in  the  soul,  is  not  the  less  accomplished 
when  that  soul  rejects  them  and  seeks  them  not.  The 
reason  is  this  :  all  corporeal  visions  or  affection  of  any 
of  the  other  senses— the  same  is  true  of  all  other  interior 
communications— if  from  God,  effect  their  chief  object 
at  the  moment  of  their  presence,  before  the  soul  has 
time  to  deliberate  whether  it  shall  entertain  or  reject 
them.  For  as  God  begins  them  in  a  supernatural  way 
without  effort  on  the  part  of  the  soul,  and  without 
respect  to  any  capacity  for  them  ;  so  the  effect,  which 
He  desires  to  produce  by  means  of  them,  is  wrought  with¬ 
out  reference  to  any  effort  or  capacity  of  the  soul ;  for  it  is 
perfected  and  brought  to  pass  in  the  spirit  passively 
without  its  free  consent,  and  therefore  does  not  depend 
on  the  will  in  any  way.  It  is  as  if  a  person  quite  naked 
came  into  contact  with  fire  :  it  matters  not  whether  he 
wills  to  be  burned  or  not,  the  fire  necessarily  performs 
its  own  proper  functions. 

5.  This  is  the  case  with  good  visions  and  apparitions  : 
even  if  the  soul  wills  it  not,  they  produce  their  effects, 
chiefly  and  specially  in  the  soul  rather  than  in  the 
body.  So  also  the  visions,  which  are  the  work  of  the 
devil — without  the  consent  of  the  soul — bring  forth 
trouble  or  dryness  of  spirit,  vanity,  or  presumption, 
although  they  are  not  so  effectual  for  evil,  as  the 
visions  of  God  are  for  good.  Diabolic  visions  do  not 
proceed  beyond  the  primary  motions,  neither  can  they 
influence  the  will,  provided  it  seeks  them  not  ;  and  the 
disquiet  which  they  occasion  does  not  last  long,  unless 
the  soul  be  negligent  and  irresolute  when  they  occur. 
But  the  visions  of  God  penetrate  into  the  inmost  parts  of 


107 


[CHAP.  XI.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMF.L. 

the  soul,  and  produce  their  effects,  a  quickened  zeal  and 
overpowering  joy,  which  enable  and  dispose  it  to  assent 
freely  and  lovingly  to  good.  Slid,  even  when  these 
outward  visions  and  impressions  come  from  God,  if  the 
soul  cleaves  to  them  and  accepts  them  readily,  six 
inconveniences  follow. 

i.  The  perfect  guidance  of  faith  is  lessened  ;  because 
the  experience  of  sense  derogates  from  faith  ;  for  faith, 
as  I  have  said,  surpasseth  all  sense,  and  thus  the  soul, 
by  not  closing  its  eyes  against  every  object  of  sense, 
turns  away  from  the  means  of  union  with  God. 

ii.  They  are  hindrances  in  the  way  of  the  spirit,  if 
they  are  not  rejected  ;  for  the  soul  rests  upon  them,  and 
does  not  regard  the  invisible.  This,  too,  was  one  of 
those  reasons,  of  which  our  Lord  spoke  to  His  disciples, 
that  it  was  expedient  for  them  that  He  should  go  away 
that  the  Spirit  might  come.  Neither  did  He  permit 
Mary  Magdalene  to  kiss  His  feet,  after  His  resurrection, 
in  order  that  she,  as  well  as  the  disciples  in  the  former 
case,  might  be  the  more  grounded  in  faith. 

iii.  The  soul  clings  selfishly  to  them,  and  does  not 
advance  to  true  resignation  and  detachment  of  spirit. 

iv.  The  soul  loses  the  good  effect  of  them  and  the 
interior  spirit  they  produce,  because  it  has  regard  to 
the  sensible  part  of  them,  which  is  the  least  important. 
Thus  that  spirit,  which  is  the  proper  fruit,  is  not  so 
abundantly  received ;  because  that  is  most  deeply 
impressed  in  the  soul  when  we  deny  ourselves  in  all 
things  of  sense,  as  they  are  most  at  variance  with  the 
pure  spirit. 


108 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  n.J 

v.  The  soul  is  wasting-  the  gifts  of  God,  because  it 
assumes  them  for  its  own,  and  does  not  profit  rightly 
by  them.  To  assume  them  for  our  own  and  not  to  profit 
by  them,  is  to  seek  them  and  to  occupy  ourselves  with 
them.  God  does  not  send  them  for  this  end  ;  neither 
should  we  easily  believe  that  they  come  from  God. 

vi.  The  ready  admission  of  them  opens  the  door  to  the 
devil,  that  he  may  deceive  us  by  others  like  them ;  he 
knows  well  how  to  dissemble  and  disguise  his  own 
visions  so  that  they  shall  seem  to  be  good ;  for  satan 
transformeth  himself  1  into  an  angel  of  light.’  *  I  shall 
treat  this  question  hereafter,  by  the  grace  of  God,  in  the 
chapter  on  spiritual  gluttony  in  the  third  book.f 

6.  It  is  therefore  expedient  that  the  soul  should  close  its 
eyes  and  reject  them,  come  they  whence  they  may.  For 
unless  we  do  so  we  shall  make  way  for  those  of  the  devil, 
and  give  him  so  much  power  over  us,  that  not  only  will 
evil  visions  come  in  the  place  of  those  which  are  divine, 
but,  when  the  latter  cease,  will  also  become  so  numerous, 
that  the  devil  will  have  every  influence  over  us,  and  God 
none,  as  it  has  happened  to  many  incautious  and 
ignorant  souls.  These  so  relied  on  their  visions,  that 
many  of  them  had  great  difficulty  in  returning  to  God 
in  pureness  of  faith,  and  many  never  returned  at  all ;  so 
widely  and  so  deeply  had  the  roots  of  the  devil  grown 
within  them.  For  this  reason  it  is  good  to  shut  our  Qyes 
against  these  visions  and  to  be  afraid  of  them  all.  By 
withdrawing  from  the  evil  visions  we  escape  the  delusions 
of  the  devil ;  by  withdrawing  from  those  which  are  good 

3  Cor.  xi.  14.  t  Ch.  ix.  ;  see  also  the  Dark  Night,  bk,  ch,  vi. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


109 


[CHAP.  XI.] 

we  put  no  obstacles  in  the  way  of  faith,  and  the  spirit 
still  derives  fruit  from  them. 

7.  When  the  soul  gives  admission  readily  to  these 
visions  God  withholds  them,  because  it  cleaves  to  them 
and  does  not  duly  profit  by  them  ;  the  devil  also  insinuates 
himself  and  multiplies  his  own  visions,  because  the  soul 
makes  room  for  them.  But  when  the  soul  is  resigned 
and  not  attached  to  such  visions  the  devil  retires,  seeing 
that  he  cannot  injure  us  then ;  and,  on  the  other  hand, 
God  multiplies  His  graces  in  the  humble  and  detached 
soul,  placing  it  over  many  things,  like  the  good  and 
faithful  servant  to  whom  it  is  said,  ‘  Because  thou  hast 
been  faithful  over  a  few  things,  I  will  place  thee  over 
many  things.’*  The  soul  that  is  faithful  amid  these 
visitations  God  will  not  leave,  till  He  shall  raise  it  up, 
step  by  step,  to  the  divine  union  and  transformation. 
This  is  the  way  our  Lord  tests  and  elevates  the  soul  : 
He  visits  it  first  in  the  senses  according  to  its  capacity  ; 
so  that,  having  conducted  itself  then  as  it  ought  to  do, 
receiving  in  all  temperance  these  first  morsels  for  its 
own  strength  and  nourishment,  it  may  be  admitted  to 
the  better  and  more  abundant  feast.  If  the  soul  shall 
overcome  the  devil  in  the  first  combat  it  shall  then  pass 
on  to  the  second  ;  and  if  it  shall  be  victorious  there  also, 
it  shall  then  pass  on  to  the  third  ;  and  then  through  the 
seven  mansions,  the  seven  degrees  of  love,  until  the 
Bridegroom  shall  bring  it  to  ‘the  cellar  of  wine’f  or 
perfect  charity. 

Blessed  is  that  soul  which  knoweth  how  to  fight 
against  the  beast  with  seven  heads, 7  which  he  opposes 

*  S.  Matt.  xxv.  21.  t  Cant  ii.  4.  X  Apoc.  xiii.  1. 


110 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  H.J 

to  the  seven  degrees  of  love.  The  beast  fighteth  against 
each  of  these  degrees  with  his  seven  heads ;  and  with 
each  one  of  them  against  the  soul  in  all  the  seven 
mansions,  wherein  the  soul  is  tried  and  gains  each 
degree  of  the  love  of  God.  And,  beyond  all  doubt,  if 
the  soul  shall  faithfully  fight  against  every  one  of  these 
heads  and  obtain  the  victory,  it  will  deserve  to  pass  on 
from  one  degree  to  another,  or  from  one  mansion  to  the 
next,  until  it  shall  have  reached  the  highest,  having 
destroyed  the  seven  heads  by  which  the  beast  waged  so 
furious  a  war  against  it.  So  fearful  is  this  war  that  the 
Apostle  says,  ‘  It  was  given  unto  him  to  make  war  with 
the  saints  and  to  overcome  them/  *  arraying  his  weapons 
and  munitions  of  war  over  against  each  of  these  degrees 
of  love. 

Many,  alas,  there  are  who  enter  the  battle  of  the 
spiritual  life  against  the  beast,  who  do  not  cut  off  even 
the  first  head,  by  self-denial  in  the  sensual  objects  of 
this  world.  Others,  more  successful,  cut  off  the  first, 
but  not  the  second — the  visions  of  sense— of  which  I  am 
speaking.  But  what  is  more  painful  still  is,  that  some 
who,  having  cut  off  not  only  the  first  and  second,  but 
the  third  head  also,  which  relates  to  the  interior  senses 
and  the  passage  from  the  state  of  meditation  into  a 
higher  one,  are  overcome  when  they  should  enter  into 
the  purity  of  the  spirit  by  the  beast,  who  returns  to  the 
assault  with  his  heads  restored  to  life,  and  renders  ‘their 
latter  state  worse  than  the  first/  for  he  bringeth  with 
him  ‘seven  other  spirits  more  wicked  than  himself.’ f 
The  spiritual  man  must  therefore  reject  all  these  appre- 
*  Ibid.  7.  f  S.  Luke  xi.  26. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


Ill 


[CHAP.  XT.  J 

hensions,  together  with  the  bodily  satisfactions  to  which 
the  exterior  senses  are  liable,  if  he  would  destroy  the 
first  and  second  head  of  the  beast,  by  entering  into  the 
first  and  second  mansion  of  love  by  a  living  faith,  not 
laying  hold  of,  nor  being  embarrassed  by,  the  impres¬ 
sions  of  the  exterior  senses  ;  for  these  present  the 
greatest  impediment  to  the  spiritual  night  of  faith. 

8.  It  is  now  clear  that  these  visions  and  apprehensions 
of  sense  cannot  be  the  means  of  the  divine  union,  for 
they  bear  no  proportion  to  God.  And  this  is  one  of 
the  reasons  why  Christ  would  not  suffer  Mary  Magda¬ 
lene  to  touch  Him,  and  yet  allowed  it,  as  the  better  and 
more  perfect  course,  to  St.  Thomas.  The  devil  rejoices 
greatly  when  a  soul  seeks  after  revelations  and  is  ready 
to  accept  them  ;  for  such  conduct  furnishes  him  with 
many  opportunities  of  insinuating  delusions,  and  dero¬ 
gating  from  faith  as  much  as  he  possibly  can  ;  for  such 
a  soul  becomes  rough  and  rude,  and  falls  frequently  into 
many  temptations  and  unseemly  habits. 

I  have  dwelt  at  some  length  on  these  exterior  com¬ 
munications  in  order  to  throw  greater  light  on  the 
others,  which  I  have  soon  to  discuss.  But  I  have  so 
much  to  say  on  this  matter  that  it  appears  impossible  to 
have  done  with  it.  I  might  sum  up  what  I  have  said  in 
this  single  sentence  ;  that  these  visions  should  never  be 
admitted,  unless  in  certain  rare  instances,  after  examina¬ 
tion  by  a  learned,  spiritual,  and  experienced  director, 
and  even  then  there  must  be  no  desire  for  them. 


112 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.] 


CHAPTER  XII. 

Of  natural  and  imaginary  apprehensions.  Their  nature.  They 
cannot  be  proportionate  means  of  union.  The  evil  results  of 
not  knowing  how  to  detach  oneself  from  them  in  time. 

BEFORE  discussing  the  imaginary  visions  which  are 
wont  to  be  represented  supernaturally  to  the  interior 
sense,  the  imagination  and  the  fancy,  it  is  expedient  that 
I  should  now — to  proceed  orderly — speak  of  the  natural 
apprehensions  incident  to  the  same  interior  bodily  sense. 
I  adopt  this  course  that  we  may  advance  from  the  less 
to  the  greater — from  that  which  is  more  outward  to  that 
which  is  more  inward — to  that  most  interior  recollection 
wherein  the  soul  is  united  with  God.  This,  too,  is  the 
course  I  have  hitherto  observed.  In  the  first  place,  I 
treated  of  the  detachment  of  the  soul  from  the  natural 
apprehensions  of  exterior  objects,  and,  consequently, 
from  the  natural  powers  of  the  desires.  This  I  did  in 
the  first  book,*  while  speaking  of  the  night  of  sense.  I 
then  treated  in  detail  of  detachment  from  exterior  super¬ 
natural  apprehensions,  to  which  the  exterior  senses  are 
liable — as  in  the  preceding  chapter — so  that  I  may  guide 
the  steps  of  the  soul  into  the  night  of  the  spirit  in  this 
second  book. 

2.  Now  the  first  subject  of  discussion  is  the  interior 
bodily  sense,  the  imagination  and  fancy,  out  of  which 
we  must  cast  all  imaginary  forms  and  apprehensions 
naturally  incident  thereto,  and  show  how  impossible  it 
is  for  the  soul  to  attain  to  union  with  God  until  their 


*  Bk.  I  ch.  iv. 


[CHAP.  XII.] 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


113 


operations  shall  have  ceased,  because  they  can  never  be 
the  proper  and  proximate  means  of  union. 

3.  The  senses  of  which  I  am  now  speaking  particularly 
are  two,  bodily  and  interior,  called  imagination  and 
fancy,  which  in  their  order  subserve  each  other.  In  the 
one  there  is  something  of  reasoning,  though  imperfect 
and  in  an  imperfect  way ;  the  other,  the  imagination, 
forms  the  image.  For  our  purpose  the  discussion  of 
either  is  equivalent  to  that  of  the  other,  and  therefore 
when  I  do  not  mention  them  both  let  it  be  understood 
that  what  is  said  of  the  one  is  applicable  to  the  other 
also,  and  that  I  am  speaking  indifferently  of  both,  with¬ 
out  distinguishing  between  them. 

4.  All,  therefore,  that  the  senses  perceive  and  fashion 
are  called  imaginations  and  fancies — that  is,  forms  repre¬ 
sented  to  the  senses  in  bodily  shape  and  likeness.  These 
may  take  place  in  two  ways — supernaturally  when, 
without  the  action  of  the  senses,  they  may  and  do 
become  present  passively  before  them..  These  are  called 
imaginary  visions  wrought  supernaturally,  of  which  I 
shall  speak  hereafter.*  The  other  way  is  natural,  when 
the  senses  actively  effect  them  by  their  own  operation, 
through  forms,  figures,  and  images.  These  two  powers 
serve  for  meditation,  which  is  a  discursive  act  by  means 
of  imagery,  forms,  and  figures,  wrought  and  fashioned 
in  the  senses.  We  picture  to  ourselves  Christ  on  the 
cross,  or  bound  to  the  pillar,  or  God  sitting  on  His 
throne  in  great  majesty.  So  also  we  imagine  glory  as 
a  most  beautiful  light,  and  represent  before  ourselves 


i 


*  Ch.  xxiv.  I. 


THE  ASCENT 


114 


[BOOK  11.  J 


any  other  object,  human  or  divine,  of  which  the  faculty 
of  imagination  is  capable. 

5.  All  these  imaginations  and  apprehensions  are  to  be 
emptied  out  of  the  soul,  which  must  remain  in  darkness 
so  far  as  it  concerns  the  senses,  in  order  that  we  may 
attain  to  the  divine  union,  because  they  bear  no  propor¬ 
tion  to  the  proximate  means  of  union  with  God  ;  as 
neither  do  bodily  things,  the  objects  of  the  five  exterior 
senses. 

6.  The  reason  is,  that  nothing  enters  the  imagination 
but  through  the  exterior  senses.  The  eye  must  have  seen, 
or  the  ear  must  have  heard,  or  the  other  senses  must 
first  have  become  cognisant  of  all  that  is  in  it.  Or  at 
the  utmost,  we  can  only  form  pictures  of  what  we  have 
seen,  heard,  or  felt;  and  these  forms  are  not  more 
excellent  than  what  the  imagination  has  received  through 
the  senses.  Though  we  picture  in  our  imagination 
palaces  of  pearls  and  mountains  of  gold,  because  we 
have  seen  gold  and  pearls,  yet  after  all  this  is  nothing 
more  than  one  piece  of  gold  or  a  single  pearl,  even 
though  the  imagination  ranges  them  in  a  certain  order. 
And  as  created  things,  as  I  said  before,*  cannot  have 
any  proportion  with  the  being  of  God,  it  follows  that  all 
the  conceptions  of  the  imagination,  which  must  resemble 
them,  cannot  serve  as  proximate  means  of  union  with 
Him.  Those  persons,  therefore,  who  represent  God  to  their 
minds  under  any  sort  of  figure,  or  as  a  great  fire  or  light, 
or  anything  else,  thinking  Him  to  be  like  them,  are  very 
far  from  drawing  near  unto  Him.  For  though  such  con¬ 
siderations,  forms,  and  methods  of  meditation  may  be 


*  Ch.  viiL 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


[CHAP.  XII.] 


115 


necessary  for  beginners,  in  order  to  inflame  and  fill  their 
souls  with  love,  through  the  instrumentality  of  sense,  as 
I  shall  explain  hereafter*— and  though  they  may  serve 
as  remote  means  of  union,  through  which  souls  must 
usually  pass  to  the  goal  and  resting-place  of  spiritual 
repose— still  they  must  so  make  use  of  them  as  to  pass 
beyond  them,  and  not  dwell  upon  them  for  ever. 

7.  If  we  dwell  upon  them  we  shall  never  reach  the 
goal,  which  is  not  like  the  remote  means,  neither  has  it 
any  proximate  relation  with  them.  The  steps  of  a  ladder 
have  no  proximate  relation  with  the  goal  and  place  to 
which  we  ascend  by  it,  towards  which  they  are  but 
means ;  so  if  he  who  climbs  does  not  leave  behind  all 
steps  so  that  none  remain,  or  if  he  rests  upon  one  of 
them,  he  will  never  ascend  to  the  summit,  to  the  peaceful 
resting  of  the  goal.  The  soul,  therefore,  that  will  ascend 
in  this  life  to  the  supreme  good  and  rest  must  pass 
beyond  all  these  steps  of  considerations,  forms,  and 
notions,  because  they  bear  no  likeness  or  proportion  to 
the  end,  which  is  God,  towards  which  it  tends.  ‘  We 
may  not  suppose/  saith  the  Apostle,  ‘  the  Divinity  to  be 
like  unto  gold,  or  silver,  or  stone,  the  graving  of  art  and 
device  of  man/  f 

8.  Great,  therefore,  is  the  mistake  of  those  spiritual 
persons  who,  having  laboured  to  draw  near  unto  God 
by  means  of  imagery,  forms,  and  meditations,  such  as 
become  beg  nners  — while  God  would  attract  them  to  the 
more  spiritual,  interior,  and  unseen  good,  by  depriving 
them  of  the  joy  and  sweetness  of  discursive  meditation- 
do  not  accept  the  guidance,  neither  venture  nor  know  how 


12 


*  Ch.  xv. 


t  Acts  xvii.  29. 


THE  ASCENT 


116 


[BOOK  II.] 


to  detach  themselves  from  these  sensible  methods  to  which 
they  have  been  accustomed.  They  retain  these  methods 
still,  seeking  to  advance  by  them  and  by  meditation  upon 
exterior  forms,  as  before,  thinking  that  it  must  be  so 
always. 

9.  They  take  great  pains  in  the  matter,  but  find  very 
little  sweetness  or  none ;  yea,  rather  dryness,  weariness, 
and  disquiet  of  soul  increase  and  grow  the  more  they 
search  after  the  sweetness  they  had  before,  because  it  is 
now  impossible  for  them  to  have  it  as  they  had  it  as  first. 
The  soul  has  no  more  pleasure  in  the  food,  as  I  have 
said  already,*  which  was  of  the  senses,  but  requires 
another  of  greater  delicacy,  interior,  and  less  cognisable 
by  the  senses,  consisting,  not  in  the  travail  of  the 
imagination,  but  in  the  repose  of  the  soul,  and  in  that 
quietness  thereof,  which  is  more  spiritual.  The  more 
the  soul  advances  in  spirituality,  the  more  it  ceases  from 
the  operations  of  its  faculties  on  particular  objects ;  for 
it  then  gives  itself  up  to  one  sole,  pure,  and  general  act ; 
and  so  its  powers  cease  from  the  practice  of  that  method 
by  which  they  once  travelled  towards  the  point  to  which 
the  soul  was  tending ;  as  the  feet  cease  from  movement 
and  are  at  rest  when  the  journey  is  over  ;  for  if  all  were 
movement,  there  would  be  no  goal  to  reach,  and  if  all 
things  are  means,  where  or  when  shall  we  enjoy  the 
end  ? 


10.  How  sad  it  is  to  see  men  who,  when  the  soul  would 
be  at  peace  in  the  repose  of  interior  quiet,  where  God  fills 
it  with  refreshment  and  peace,  disturb  it,  draw  it  away  to 
outward  things,  compel  it  to  travel  again  along  the  road 

*  Bk.  i,  ch.  v. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


117 


[CHAP.  XII.] 

it  had  passed,  and  to  abandon  the  goal,  where  it  reposes, 
for  the  sake  of  the  means  and  considei  ati  ms  which 
guided  it  to  its  rest.  This  is  not  effected  without 
loathing  and  repugnance  on  the  part  of  the  soul,  which 
would  repose  in  this  tranquillity  as  in  its  proper  place — as 
it  happens  to  him  who  after  toilsome  labour  has  attained 
repose ;  for  w’hen  he  is  made  to  return  to  his  work  he 
feels  it  painfully.  And  as  they  do  not  understand  the 
secret  of  their  new  condition,  they  imagine  themselves 
to  be  idle,  doing  nothing;  and  so  do  not  suffer  them¬ 
selves  to  be  at  rest,  but  strive  to  reproduce  their  former 
reflections  and  discursive  acts.  They  are  therefore  full 
of  dryness  and  trouble,  because  they  seek  there  for 
sweetness  where  there  is  no  longer  sweetness  for  them. 
To  them  the  proverb  applies,  ‘the  more  it  freezes  the 
more  it  binds  ;  ’  the  more  obstinately  they  cling  to  this 
way  the  worse  it  becomes  for  them,  because  they  lead 
their  soul  further  away  from  spiritual  peace.  This  is  to 
abandon  what  is  greatest  for  what  is  least,  to  travel 
backwards  along  the  road  they  came,  and  do  again  what 
they  have  done  before. 

11.  To  these  my  counsel  is — learn  to  abide  with  atten¬ 
tion  in  loving  waiting  upon  God  in  the  state  of  quiet;  give 
no  heed  to  your  imagination,  nor  to  its  operations,  for 
now,  as  I  have  said,  the  powers  of  the  soul  are  at  rest, 
and  are  not  exercised,  except  in  the  sweet  and  pure 
waiting  of  love.  If  at  times  they  are  excited,  it  is  not 
violently,  nor  with  meditation  elaborately  prepared,  but 
by  the  sweetness  of  love,  more  under  the  influence  of 
God  than  of  the  ability  of  the  soul,  as  I  shall  hereafter 
clearly  explain.* 

*Book  iii,  ch.  xxxvi. 


118 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.] 

12.  Let  this,  for  the  present,  suffice  to  show  how 
necessary  it  is  for  those  who  would  make  progress,  to 
abandon  these  methods  and  ways  of  the  imagination  at 
the  proper  time,  when  their  growth,  in  that  state  wherein 
they  are,  requires  it.  And  that  we  may  know  when  this 
time  is  come,  I  shall  describe  certain  signs  which  the 
spiritual  man  is  to  discern  in  himself,  that  he  may 
thereby  recognise  the  time  when  he  may  freely  avail 
himself  of  the  goal  already  mentioned,  and  leave  behind 
him  all  intellectual  reflections  and  all  acts  of  the 
imagination. 


CHAPTER  XIII. 

The  signs  to  be  observed  by  the  spiritual  man  that  he  may  know 
when  to  withdraw  the  understanding  from  imaginary  forms 
and  discursive  meditations. 

To  avoid  confusion  in  my  teaching,  I  find  it  necessary 
in  this  chapter  to  explain  when  the  spiritual  man  should 
abstain  from  the  meditation  which  rests  on  imaginary 
forms  and  mental  representations,  in  order  that  he  may 
abstain  from  it  neither  sooner  nor  later  than  when  the 
Spirit  calls  him.  For  as  it  is  necessary  to  abstain  from 
it  at  the  proper  time,  in  order  to  draw  near  unto  God, 
that  we  may  not  be  hindered  by  it ;  so  also  must  we  not 
cease  from  it  before  the  time,  lest  we  go  backwards  :  for 
though  all  that  the  powers  of  the  soul  may  apprehend 
cannot  be  proximate  means  of  union  for  those  who  have 
made  some  spiritual  progress,  still  they  serve,  as  remote 
means,  to  dispose  and  habituate  the  minds  of  beginners 
to  that  which  is  spiritual  by  means  of  the  senses,  and  to 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


119 


[chap.  XIII.] 

clear  the  way  of  all  other  low  forms  and  images, 
temporal,  worldly,  and  natural.  With  this  view  I  will 
mention  here  certain  signs  and  evidences,  three  in 
number,  by  observing  which  the  spiritual  man  may  know 
whether  the  time  is  come  for  him  to  cease  from  meditation 
or  not. 

1.  i.  When  he  finds  he  cannot  meditate  nor  exert  his 
imagination,  nor  derive  any  satisfaction  from  it,  as  he 
was  wont  to  do — when  he  finds  dryness  there,  where  he 
was  accustomed  to  fix  the  senses  and  draw  forth  sweet¬ 
ness — then  the  time  is  come.  But  while  he  finds  sweetness, 
and  is  able  to  meditate  as  usual,  let  him  not  cease 
therefrom,  except  when  his  soul  is  in  peace,  of  which  T 
shall  speak  when  describing  the  third  sign. 

2.  ii.  When  he  sees  that  he  has  no  inclination  to  fix  the 
imagination  or  the  senses  on  particular  objects,  exterior 
or  interior.  I  do  not  mean  when  the  imagination  neither 
comes  nor  goes — for  it  is  disorderly  even  in  the  most 
complete  self-recollection  —  but  only  when  the  soul 
derives  no  pleasure  from  tying  it  down  deliberately  to 
other  matters. 

3.  iii.  The  third  sign  is  the  most  certain  of  the  three, 
namely,  when  the  soul  delights  to  be  alone,  waiting 
lovingly  on  God,  without  any  particular  considerations, 
in  interior  peace,  quiet,  and  repose,  when  the  acts  and 
exercises  of  the  understanding,  memory,  and  will,  at 
least  discursively— which  is  the  going  from  one  subject 
to  another— have  ceased;  nothing  remaining  except  that 
knowledge  and  attention,  general  and  loving,  of  which 
I  have  spoken,  without  the  particular  perception  of 
aught  else. 


'120  THE  ASCENT  [BOOK  II.] 

4.  The  spiritual  man  must  have  observed  these  three 
signs  together,  at  least,  before  he  can  venture  with  safety 
to  abandon  the  state  of  meditation  for  that  of  the  way 
of  spiritual  contemplation.  It  is  not  enough  for  him  to 
observe  the  first  without  the  second,  for  it  may  happen 
that  he  cannot  meditate  on  the  things  of  God,  as  before, 
because  of  distractions  and  the  absence  of  due  prepar¬ 
ation.  He  must  therefore  have  regard  to  the  second 
sign,  and  see  whether  he  has  no  inclination  or  desire  to 
think  of  other  things.  For  when  this  inability  to  fix  the 
imagination  and  the  senses  on  the  things  of  God  proceeds 
from  distraction  or  lukewarmness,  the  soul  readily 
inclines  to  other  matters,  and  these  lead  it  away  from 
God. 

5.  Neither  is  it  sufficient  to  have  observed  the  first  and 
second  sign  if  we  do  not  also  discern  the  third.  For 
though  we  cannot  meditate  or  think  on  the  things  of  God, 
and  have  no  pleasure  either  in  dwelling  upon  anything 
else ;  yet  this  may  be  the  effect  of  melancholy  or  some 
other  oppression  of  the  brain  or  the  heart,  which  is  wont 
to  produce  a  certain  suspension  of  our  faculties,  so  that 
we  think  upon  nothing,  nor  desire  to  do  so,  nor  have  any 
inclination  thereto,  but  rather  remain  in  a  kind  of 
soothing  astonishment.  By  way  of  defence  against  this, 
we  must  be  sure  of  the  third  sign,  which  is  a  loving 
knowledge  and  attention  in  peace,  as  I  have  said.  It  is, 
however,  true  that  in  the  commencement  of  this  state 
this  loving  knowledge  is,  as  it  were,  imperceptible, 
because  it  is  then  wont  to  be,  in  the  first  place,  most 
subtile  and  delicate,  and  as  it  were,  unfelt ;  and  because, 
in  the  second  place,  the  soul,  having  been  accustomed  to 


MOUNT  CARMEL. 


121 


[chap,  xi v] 

meditation,  which  is  more  cognisable  by  sense,  does  not 
perceive,  and,  as  it  were,  does  not  feel  this  new  condition, 
not  subject  to  sense,  and  which  is  purely  spiritual. 

6.  This  is  the  case  especially  when,  through  not  under¬ 
standing  his  condition,  the  spiritual  man  will  not  allow 
himself  to  rest  therein,  but  will  strive  after  that  which  is 
cognisable  by  sense.  This  striving,  notwithstanding  the 
abundance  of  loving  interior  peace,  robs  him  of  the  sense 
and  enjoyment  of  it.  But  the  more  the  soul  is  disposed 
for  this  tranquillity,  the  more  will  it  grow  therein  con¬ 
tinually  ;  and  the  more  conscious  it  will  be  of  this  general 
loving  knowledge  of  God,  which  is  sweeter  to  it  than  all 
besides,  because  it  brings  with  it  peace  and  rest,  sweet¬ 
ness  and  delight  without  trouble.  To  make  this  matter 
more  clear,  I  shall  explain  in  the  following  chapter  why 
these  three  signs  are  necessary  for  the  direction  of  the 
soul. 


CHAPTER  XIV. 

The  fitness  of  these  signs. 

The  necessity  of  observing  them  for  spiritual  progress. 

As  to  the  first  sign,  it  is  to  be  observed  that  there  are 
two  reasons,  comprised  as  it  were  in  one,  why  the  spiritual 
man— if  he  is  to  enter  on  the  life  of  the  spirit,  which  is 
that  of  contemplation— must  abandon  the  way  of  the 
imagination  and  sensible  meditation,  when  he  has  no 
pleasure  in  it  and  is  no  longer  able  to  make  his  wonted 
reflection.  The  first  is,  that  all  the  spiritual  good  to  be 
found,  by  way  of  meditation  in  the  things  of  God,  has 
been  already  in  n  manner  bestowed  upon  him.  This  is 


122 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.] 

shown  by  the  fact  that  he  cannot  now  make  his  former 
meditations  and  reflections,  and  that  he  has  no  pleasure 
or  satisfaction  therein  as  he  had  before,  because  he  had 
not  then  attained  to  the  spiritual  life.  And,  in  general, 
whenever  the  soul  receives  a  fresh  spiritual  grace  it 
receives  it  with  pleasure,  at  least  in  spirit,  in  the  means 
whereby  it  comes,  and  it  profits  by  it ;  otherwise  its 
profiting  would  be  miraculous.  This  is  in  accordance 
with  the  philosophical  saying,  What  is  palatable 
nourishes;  and  also  with  the  words  of  Job,  ‘Can  an 
unsavoury  thing  be  eaten  that  is  not  seasoned  with 
salt  ?  ’*  The  reason,  then,  why  meditation  is  no  longer 
possible,  is  the  little  pleasure  and  profit  which  the  mind 
now  derives  from  it. 

2.  The  second  reason  is  this  :  the  soul  has  now  attained 
substantially  and  habitually  to  the  spirit  of  meditation. 
For  the  end  of  meditation  and  reflection  on  the  things 
of  God  is  to  have  the  knowledge  and  the  love  of  Him  as 
its  fruit.  Each  time  this  is  done,  it  is  an  act,  and  as  acts 
often  repeated  produce  habits,  so,  many  acts  of  loving 
knowledge  continuously  made  by  the  soul,  beget  the 
habit  thereof  in  the  course  of  time.  God  is  wont  at 
times  to  effect  this  without  these  acts  of  meditation— at 
least  without  many  of  them — leading  souls  at  once  into 
*he  state  of  contemplation.  Thus,  what  the  soul  obtained 
before,  at  intervals,  by  dint  of  meditation,  in  particular 
«.cts  of  knowledge,  is  now  by  practice  converted  into  the 
habit  and  substance  of  knowledge,  loving,  general,  not 
distinct,  or  particular,  as  before.  And,  therefore,  such  a 
<ioul  betaking  itself  to  prayer-  like  a  man  with  wafer 

*  job  vi.  6- 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


123 


[CHAP.  XIV.] 

before  him— drinks  sweetly  without  effort,  without  the 
necessity  of  drawing  it  through  the  channel  of  previous 
reflections,  forms,  and  figures.  And  the  moment  such  a 
soul  places  itself  in  the  presence  of  God,  it  makes  an 
act  of  knowledge,  confused,  loving,  peaceful,  and  tranquil, 
wherein  it  drinks  in  wisdom,  love,  and  sweetness. 

3.  This  is  the  reason  why  the  soul  is  troubled  and 
disgusted  when  compelled,  in  this  state,  to  make  medi¬ 
tations  and  to  labour  in  particular  acts  of  knowledge. 
Its  condition,  then,  is  like  that  of  an  infant  at  the  breast, 
withdrawn  from  it  while  it  was  sucking  it,  and  bidden  to 
procure  its  nourishment  by  efforts  of  its  own  ;  or  of  one 
who,  having  removed  the  rind,  is,  when  tasting  the 
fruit  it  contained,  bidden  to  cease  therefrom  and  to 
peel  away  the  rind  already  removed,  and  then  finds  no 
rind  and  loses  the  fruit  he  had  in  his  hand — like  one 
who  loses  a  prize  already  in  his  power.  This  is  the  case 
with  many  who  have  begun  to  enter  upon  this  state. 
They  think  that  the  whole  matter  consists  in  discursive 
meditations,  in  the  understanding  of  particulars  by 
means  of  forms  and  images,  which  are  the  rind  of  the 
spiritual  life.  When  they  do  not  find  these  in  that  loving 
and  substantial  quiet,  where  the  soul  desires  to  dwell, 
and  where  nothing  distinct  reaches  the  understanding, 
they  suppose  themselves  to  be  going  astray,  wasting 
their  time,  and  so  go  in  quest  of  the  rind  of  images  and 
discursive  meditation,  not  now  to  be  found,  because  long 
ago  taken  away.  Thus  they  do  not  enjoy  the  substance, 
neither  can  they  meditate ;  and  so  they  vex  themselves, 
thinking  that  they  are  going  backwards,  and  that  they 
are  lost.  This  i§  certainly  true,  but  not  in  the  way  they 


124  THE  ASCENT  [BOOK  n.] 

mean  :  they  are  lost  to  their  own  sense,  to  their  first 
perceptions  and  understanding,  which  is  nothing  else  but 
to  gain  the  spiritual  life  which  is  given  unto  them  ;  for 
the  less  they  understand,  the  further  do  they  enter  into 
the  night  of  the  spirit,  through  which  they  have  to  pass 
in  order  to  be  united  with  God,  in  a  way  that  surpasses 
all  understanding. 

4.  There  is  but  little  for  me  to  say  of  the  second  sign, 
because  it  is  evident  that  the  soul  has  necessarily  no 
pleasure  at  that  time  in  other  imaginary  representations, 
those  of  the  world,  seeing  that  it  has  none,  for  the  reasons 
already  given,  in  those  which  are  most  befitting  it,  as 
those  of  the  things  of  God.  Only,  as  I  have  said  before, 
the  imaginative  faculty,  in  this  state  of  recollection,  is 
wont  to  come,  and  go,  and  vary,  but  without  the  consent 
of  the  soul  and  without  giving  it  any  pleasure ;  yea, 
rather,  the  soul  is  then  afflicted  thereby,  because  of  the 
interruption  of  its  peace  and  sweetness. 

5.  Nor  do  I  think  it  necessary  here  to  speak  at  all  of  the 
fitness  and  necessity  of  the  third  sign,  whereby  we  may 
discern  when  we  are  to  cease  from  meditation.  That 
sign  is  a  knowledge  of,  and  attention  to,  God,  general 
and  loving.  I  have  explained  this  in  some  degree  while 
speaking  of  the  first  sign  ;  and  I  have  to  treat  of  it  again 
directly,*  when  I  speak  of  that  general,  confused  know¬ 
ledge,  after  discussing  the  particular  apprehensions  of 
the  understanding.  But  I  propose  now  to  mention  one 
reason  only,  which  will  make  it  clear  why  this  attention, 
-or  general  loving  knowledge  of  God,  is  necessary,  when 


*  Bk.  ii,  ch.  xxxii. 


125 


[CHAP.  XIV.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

the  spiritual  man  passes  from  the  state  of  meditation  to 
that  of  contemplation. 

6.  That  reason  is  this  :  if  the  soul  were  without  this 
knowledge  or  sense  of  God’s  presence  at  that  time,  the 
result  would  be  that  it  would  have  nothing,  and  do 
nothing ;  for  having  ceased  from  meditation,  wherein  the 
soul  acts  discursively,  by  means  of  the  senses  and  con¬ 
templation  not  yet  attained  to,  which  is  that  general 
knowledge,  wherein  the  spiritual  powers  of  the  soul, 
memory,  understanding,  and  will,  are  exerted,  and  united 
in  this  knowledge,  which  is  as  it  were  effected  and 
received  in  them— every  act  of  the  worship  of  God  must 
of  necessity  fail  ;  for  the  soul  cannot  act  at  all,  nor  receive 
impressions,  nor  persevere  in  the  work  it  has  before  it, 
but  in  the  way  of  these  two  powers  of  sense  and  spirit. 
It  is  by  the  bodily  senses  that  the  soul  is  able  to  reflect, 
search  out,  and  effect  the  knowledge  of  things  ;  and 
by  the  spiritual  sense  to  rejoice  in  the  knowledge  thus 
attained  without  further  labour,  search,  or  reflection. 
The  difference  between  these  two  conditions  of  the  soul  is 
like  the  difference  between  working,  and  enjoyment  of  the 
fruit  of  our  work ;  between  receiving  a  gift,  and  profiting 
by  it  ;  between  the  toil  of  travelling,  and  the  rest  at  our 
journey’s  end  ;  between  the  preparation  of  our  food,  and 
the  eating  or  enjoyment  of  it.  If  the  soul  be  idle,  not 
occupied,  either  with  its  bodily  faculties  in  meditation  and 
reflection,  or  with  its  spiritual  faculties  m  contemplation 
and  pure  knowledge,  it  is  impossible  to  say  that  it  is 
occupied  at  all.  This  knowledge  is  therefore  necessary 
for  the  abandonment  of  the  way  of  meditation  and 
reflection. 


126 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.] 


7.  But  it  is  to  be  remembered  that  this  general  know¬ 
ledge,  of  which  I  am  speaking,  is  at  times  so  subtle  and 
delicate— particularly  when  most  pure,  simple,  perfect, 
spiritual,  and  interior — that  the  soul,  though  in  the  prac¬ 
tice  thereof,  is  not  observant  or  conscious  of  it.  This  is 
the  case  when  that  knowledge  is  most  pure,  clear,  and 
simple,  which  it  is  when  it  enters  into  a  soul  most  pure 
and.  detached  from  all  other  acts  of  knowledge  and  special 
perceptions,  to  which  the  understanding  or  the  sense  may 
cling.  Such  a  soul,  because  freed  from  all  those  things 
which  were  actually  and  habitually  objects  of  the  under¬ 
standing  or  of  the  sense,  is  not  aware  of  them,  because 
the  accustomed  objects  of  sense  have  failed  it.  This  is 
the  reason  why  this  knowledge,  when  most  pure,  perfect, 
and  simple,  is  the  less  perceived  by  the  understanding, 
and  is  the  most  obscure.  On  the  other  hand,  when  this 
knowledge  is  less  pure  and  simple  the  more  clear  and 
the  more  important  it  seems  to  the  understanding ; 
because  it  is  mixed  up  with,  clothed  in,  or  involved  in, 
certain  intelligible  forms,  of  which  the  understanding 
most  easily  takes  cognisance,  to  its  hurt. 

8.  The  following  comparison  will  make  this  plain 
enough.  When  the  rays  of  the  sun  penetrate  through  a 
crevice  into  a  dark  room,  the  air  in  which  is  full  of  atoms 
and  particles  of  dust,  they  are  then  more  palpable,  and 
more  visible  to  the  eye  ;  and  yet  those  rays  are  then  less 
pure,  simple,  and  perfect,  because  mixed  up  with  so  much 
impurity  :  also,  when  they  are  most  pure  and  most  free 
from  dust,  the  less  are  they  cognisable  by  the  material 
eye  ;  and  the  more  pure  they  are  the  less  are  they  seen 
and  considered.  If,  again,  these  rays  were  altogether 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


127 


[chap.  XIV.] 

pure,  clear  of  every  atom,  and  of  the  minutest  particle  of 
dust,  they  would  be  utterly  invisible,  by  reason  of  the 
absence  of  all  objects  whereon  the  eye  could  rest ;  for 
pure  and  simple  light  is  not  properly  the  object  of  vision, 
but  the  means  whereby  we  discern  visible  things ;  and 
so,  if  there  be  no  visible  objects  present  to  reflect  the 
light,  nothing  can  be  seen.  Hence,  then,  a  ray  of  light 
entering  in  by  one  crevice  and  going  out  by  another, 
unaffected  by  any  material  object,  cannot  be  seen  ;  and 
yet  that  ray  is  more  pure  and  clear  than  when  it  is  most 
distinctly  seen  through  being  mixed  up  with  visible 
objects. 

9.  Such  are  the  conditions  of  the  spiritual  light  with 
regard  to  the  eye  of  the  soul,  which  is  the  understanding, 
against  which  this  knowledge  and  supernatural  light 
strikes  so  purely  and  so  plainly.  So  clear  is  it  of  all 
intelligible  forms,  which  are  the  adequate  objects  of  the 
understanding,  that  the  understanding  is  not  conscious 
of  its  presence.  Sometimes,  indeed — when  it  is  most 
pure— it  creates  darkness,  because  it  withdraws  the 
understanding  from  its  accustomed  lights,  forms,  and 
fantasies,  and  then  the  darkness  becomes  palpable  and 
visible. 

10.  At  other  times,  also,  the  divine  light  strikes  the  soul 
with  such  force  that  the  darkness  is  unfelt  and  the  light 
unheeded  ;  the  soul  seems  unconscious  of  all  it  knows, 
and  is  therefore  lost,  as  it  were,  in  forgetfulness,  knowing 
not  where  it  is,  nor  what  has  happened  to  it,  unaware  of 
the  lapse  of  time.  It  may  and  does  occur  that  many 
hours  pass  while  it  is  in  this  state  of  forgetfulness  ;  all 
seem  but  a  moment  when  it  again  returns  to  itself.  The 


123 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.] 


cause  of  this  forgetfulness  is  the  pureness  and  simplicity 
of  this  knowledge,  which,  being  itself  pure  and  clear, 
cleanses  the  soul  while  it  fills  it,  and  purifies  it  of  all  the 
apprehensions  and  forms  of  sense  and  memory  through 
which  it  once  acted,  and  thus  brings  it  to  a  state  ot 
forgetfulness,  and  unconsciousness  of  the  flight  of  time. 
This  prayer  of  the  soul,  though  in  reality  long,  seems  to 
last  but  for  a  moment,  because  it  is  an  act  of  pure 
intelligence ;  for  it  is  that  prayer  which  is  said  to  ‘  pierce 
the  clouds,  *  time  being  unheeded  while  it  lasts  :  it  pierces 
the  clouds  because  the  soul  is  then  in  union  with  the 
heavenly  Intelligence.  This  knowledge  leaves  behind 
it  in  the  soul,  when  awake,  all  the  effects  it  then  wrought, 
without  any  consciousness  on  the  part  of  the  soul  that 
they  were  wrought.  These  effects  are  the  lifting  up  of 
the  soul  to  the  heavenly  Intelligence,  the  withdrawal 
and  estrangement  of  it  from  all  things,  and  from  the 
forms  and  figures  of  them. 

Thus  it  befel  David,  who,  when  he  returned  to  him¬ 
self,  said,  ‘  I  have  watched,  and  am  become  as  the  lonely 
sparrow  on  the  housetop.’ f  ‘Lonely’  expresses  his 
estrangement  and  detachment  from  all  things ;  and  the 
‘  housetop  ’  the  lifting  up  of  the  soul  on  high.  The  soul 
is  now,  as  it  were,  ignorant  of  all  things,  because  it 
knows  God  only,  without  knowing  how.  The  bride  also 
speaks  of  this  ignorance  as  one  of  the  effects  of  this  sleep 
or  forgetfulness,  saying,  ‘  I  knew  not :’}  that  is,  I  know 
not  how.  Though  he  to  whose  soul  is  given  this  know¬ 
ledge  seems  to  be  doing  nothing  and  to  be  wholly 

*  Ecclus.  xxxv.  21.  Oratio  humiliantis  se  nubes  penetrable. 


t  Ps.  ci.  8. 


♦  Cant.  vi.  n. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


129 


[CHAP  XIV.] 


unoccupied,  because  the  imagination  has  ceased  to  act, 
he  still  believes  that  the  time  has  not  been  lost  or  use¬ 
lessly  spent :  for  though  the  harmonious  correspondence 
of  the  powers  of  the  soul  has  ceased,  the  understanding 
thereof  abides  as  I  say.  The  bride  in  her  wisdom 
answers  herself  this  question,  when  she  says,  ‘  I  sleep, 
and  my  heart  watcheth  :  ’  *  though  I  sleep  in  my  natural 
state,  and  cease  from  all  exertion,  my  heart  watcheth 
supematurally,  lifted  up  in  supernatural  knowledge.  A 
sign  by  which  we  may  discern  whether  the  soul  is 
occupied  in  this  secret  intelligence  is,  that  it  has  no 
pleasure  in  the  thought  of  anything  high  or  low. 

12.  Still  we  are  not  to  suppose  that  this  knowledge 
necessarily  induces  this  forgetfulness  ;  the  reality  of  it 
does  not  depend  on  this.  This  forgetfulness  occurs  when 
God  in  a  special  way  suspends  the  faculties  of  the  souk 
This  does  not  often  occur,  for  this  knowledge  does  not 
always  fill  the  whole  soul.  It  is  sufficient  for  the  purpose 
that  the  understanding  should  be  withdrawn  from  all 
particular  knowledge,  whether  temporal  or  spiritual, 
and  that  the  will  should  have  no  inclination  to  dwell 
upon  either.  This  sign  serves  to  show  that  the  soul 
is  in  this  state  of  forgetfulness,  when  this  knowledge 
is  furnished  and  communicated  to  the  understanding 
only.  But  when  it  is  communicated  to  the  will  also, 
which  is  almost  always  the  case  in  a  greater  or  less 
degree,  the  soul  cannot  but  see,  if  it  will  reflect  thereon, 
that  it  is  occupied  by  this  knowledge  ;  because  it  is  then 
conscious  of  the  sweetness  of  love  therein,  without  any 
particular  knowledge  or  perception  of  what  it  loves 

*  Cant.  v.  2. 

J 


i 


130 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  11.  J 

13.  This  is  the  reason  why  this  knowledge  is  called  lov¬ 
ing  and  general ;  for  as  it  communicates  itself  obscurely 
to  the  understanding,  so  also  to  the  will,  infusing  therein 
love  and  sweetness  confusedly,  without  the  soul’s 
knowing  distinctly  the  object  of  its  love.  Let  this  suffice 
to  show  how  necessary  it  is  for  the  soul  to  be  occupied 
oy  this  knowledge,  in  order  that  it  may  leave  the  way  of 
meditation,  and  to  feel  assured,  notwithstanding  the 
appearance  of  doing  nothing,  that  it  is  well  employed,  if 
it  discerns  the  signs  of  which  I  am  speaking.  It  appears, 
also,  from  the  illustration  drawn  from  the  shining  of  the 
sun’s  rays,  full  of  atoms,  that  the  soul  is  not  to  imagine 
this  light  to  be  then  most  pure,  subtile,  and  clear,  when 
it  presents  itself  to  the  understanding  more  palpably  and 
more  comprehensibly.  For  it  is  certain,  according  to 
Aristotle  and  theologians,  that  the  more  pure  and 
sublime  the  divine  light  is,  the  more  obscure  it  is  to  our 
understanding. 

14.  I  have  much  to  say  of  this  divine  knowledge,  both 
as  it  is  in  itself,  and  in  its  effects  upon  contemplatives ;  but 
I  reserve  it  for  its  proper  place.  The  present  discussion 
would  not  have  been  so  long  had  it  not  been  requisite 
that  the  subject  should  be  left  in  somewhat  less  confu¬ 
sion  than  it  is  at  present,  which  I  must  admit  to  be  the 
case.  Over  and  above  the  fact  that  this  subject  is  rarely 
treated  in  this  way,  whether  in  writing  or  by  word  of 
mouth,  because  it  is  in  itself  strange  and  obscure,  comes 
also  my  poor  method  and  little  knowledge.  I  am 
without  confidence  in  my  own  capacity  to  explain  it, 
and  therefore  grow  prolix  and  wearisome,  exceeding  the 
just  limits  required  for  the  explanation  of  this  division 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


131 


[CHAP.  XV.] 

of  the  subject.  I  admit  that  I  have  done  this  occasion¬ 
ally  on  purpose  ;  for  a  subject  that  cannot  be  explained 
by  one  view  of  it  may  be  by  another  ;  and  only  because 
I  consider  that  I  have  in  this  way  thrown  more  light  on 
what  is  to  follow.  For  this  reason,  in  order  to  conclude 
this  part  of  the  subject,  I  think  I  ought  to  solve  one 
question  concerning  the  duration  of  this  knowledge, 
which  I  propose  to  do  in  the  following  chapter. 


CHAPTER  XV. 

Of  the  occasional  necessity  of  meditating  and  exerting  the  natural 
faculties  on  the  part  of  those  who  begin  to  enter  on  the  con¬ 
templative  state. 

Here  it  may  be  asked,  whether  proficients,  those  whom 
God  has  begun  to  lead  into  this  supernatural  knowledge 
of  contemplation,  are,  in  virtue  of  this  commencement, 
never  again  to  return  to  the  way  of  meditation,  reflections, 
and  natural  forms  ?  To  this  I  answer,  that  it  is  not  to 
be  supposed  that  those  who  have  begun  to  have  this 
pure  and  loving  knowledge  are  never  to  meditate  again 
or  attempt  it.  For  in  the  beginning  of  their  advancement 
the  habit  of  this  is  not  so  perfect  as  that  they  should  be 
able  at  pleasure  to  perform  the  acts  of  it.  Neither  are 
they  so  far  advanced  beyond  the  state  of  meditation  as  to 
be  unable  to  meditate  and  make  their  reflections  as  before, 
and  to  find  therein  something  new.  Yea,  rather,  at  first, 
when  we  see,  by  the  help  of  these  signs,  that  our  soul  is 
not  occupied  in  this  quiet,  or  knowledge,  it  will  be  neces¬ 
sary  to  have  recourse  to  reflections,  until  we  attain  to 
the  habit  of  it  in  some  degree  of  perfection.  Such  will 

J2 


132  the  ascent  [book  ij.] 

be  the  case  when,  as  often  as  we  apply  ourselves  to 
meditation,  the  soul  reposes  in  this  peaceful  knowledge, 
without  the  power  or  the  inclination  to  meditate:  because, 
until  we  arrive  at  this,  sometimes  one,  sometimes  the 
other,  occurs  in  this  time  of  proficiency  in  such  a  way 
that  very  often  the  soul  finds  itself  in  this  loving  oi 
peaceful  attendance  upon  God,  with  all  its  faculties  in 
repose ;  and  very  often  also  will  find  it  necessary,  foi 
that  end,  to  have  recourse  to  meditation,  calmly  and  with 
moderation.  But  when  this  state  is  attained  to, 
meditation  ceases,  and  the  faculties  labour  no  more  ;  foi 
then  we  may  rather  say,  that  intelligence  and  sweetness 
are  wrought  in  the  soul,  and  that  it  itself  abstains  from 
every  effort,  except  only  that  it  attends  lovingly  upon 
God,  without  any  desire  to  feel  or  see  anything  further 
than  to  be  in  the  hands  of  God,  Who  now  communicates 
Himself  to  the  soul,  thus  passive,  as  the  light  of  the  sun 
to  him  whose  eyes  are  open.  But  we  must  take  care,  if 
we  wish  to  receive  in  pureness  and  abundance  this  divine 
light,  that  no  other  lights  of  knowledge,  or  forms,  or 
figures  of  meditations,  of  a  more  palpable  kind,  intervene, 
for  nothing  ot  this  kind  bears  any  resemblance  to  that 
serene  and  clear  light.  And,  therefore,  if  at  that  time  we 
seek  to  apprehend  and  reflect  on  particular  objects, 
however  spiritual  they  may  be,  we  shall  obstruct  the 
pure  and  limpid  light  of  the  Spirit,  by  interposing  these 
clouds  before  us,  as  a  man  who  should  place  anything 
before  his  eyes  impedes  the  vision  of  things  beyond. 

2.  It  appears,  then,  from  all  this  that  the  soul,  when  it 
shall  have  purified  and  emptied  itself  from  all  these 
intelligible  forms  and  images,  will  then  dwell  in  this  pure 


[CHAP.  XV.] 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


13? 


and  simple  light,  transformed  thereto  in  the  state  of 
perfection.  This  light  is  ever  ready  to  be  communicated 
to  the  soul,  but  does  not  flow  in,  because  of  the  forms 
and  veils  of  the  creature  which  infold  and  embarrass  the 
soul.  Take  away  these  hindrances  and  coverings,  as  I 
shall  hereafter  explain,  and  the  soul  in  detachment  and 
poverty  of  spirit  will  then,  being  pure  and  simple,  be 
transformed  in  the  pure  and  sincere  divine  Wisdom  who 
is  the  Son  of  God.  For  then  that  which  is  natural 
having  failed,  that  which  is  divine  flows  supernaturally 
into  the  enamoured  soul ;  for  God  leaves  it  not  empty 
without  filling  it. 

3.  When  the  spiritual  man  is  unable  to  meditate,  let  him 
learn  to  remain  in  loving  attention  to  God,  in  the  quiet 
of  his  understanding,  though  he  may  seem  to  be  doing 
nothing.  For  thus  by  little  and  little,  and  most  rapidly, 
will  the  divine  tranquillity  and  peace,  from  this  mar¬ 
vellous  and  deep  knowledge  of  God,  involved  in  the 
divine  love,  be  infused  into  his  soul.  Let  him  not 
meddle  with  forms,  imagery,  meditations,  or  reflections 
of  any  kind,  that  he  may  not  disquiet  his  soul,  and 
drag  it  out  of  its  peace  and  contentment  into  that  which 
can  only  end  in  bitterness.  And  if  this  inactivity 
should  be  a  cause  of  scruples,  let  him  remember  that 
it  is  not  a  slight  matter  to  possess  our  soul  in  peace  and 
rest,  without  effort  or  desire.  This  is  what  our  Lord 
requires  at  our  hands,  saying,  ‘  Be  still,  and  see  that  I  am 
God.’*  Learn  to  be  interiorly  empty  of  all  things,  and 
you  will  see  with  delight  that  I  am  God. 


*  Ps.  xlv.  ii. 


134 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  U.] 


CHAPTER  XVI. 

Of  imaginary  apprehensions  supernaturally  represented  to  the 
fancy.  They  cannot  be  proximate  means  of  union  with 
God. 

And  now  having  treated  of  those  impressions  which  the 
soul  receives  in  the  order  of  nature,  and  which  exercise 
the  imagination  and  the  fancy,  it  is  necessary  to  discuss 
those  which  are  supernatural,  called  imaginary  visions, 
and  which  also,  inasmuch  as  they  are  images,  forms,  and 
figures,  appertain  to  sense,  like  those  which  are  in  the 
order  of  nature.  Under  the  designation  of  imaginary 
visions,  I  include  everything  which  may  be  super¬ 
naturally  represented  to  the  imagination  by  images,  forms, 
figures,  or  impressions,  and  these  of  the  most  perfect 
kind,  which  represent  things,  and  influence  us  more 
vividly  and  more  perfectly  than  it  is  possible  in  the 
natural  order  of  the  senses.  For  all  these  impressions 
and  images  which  the  five  senses  represent  to  the  soul, 
and  which  establish  themselves  within  it  in  a  natural 
way,  may  also  have  their  place  there  in  a  way  that  is 
supernatural,  represented  therein  without  any  inter¬ 
vention  whatever  on  the  part  of  the  outward  senses. 
The  sense  of  fancy  and  memory  is,  as  it  were,  a  store¬ 
house  of  the  understanding,  where  all  forms  and  objects 
are  treasured  up  ;  and  thus  the  understanding  considers 
them  and  forms  judgments  about  them. 

2.  We  must,  therefore,  remember  that  as  the  five  out¬ 
ward  senses  propose  and  represent  to  the  interior  senses 
the  images  and  pictures  of  their  objects;  so  in  a  super- 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


135 


[CHAP.  XVI.] 

natural  way,  without  the  intervention  of  the  outward  senses, 
may  be  represented  the  same  images  and  pictures,  and  that 
much  more  vividly  and  perfectly.  And  thus  by  means 
of  images  God  frequently  shows  many  things  to  the  soul, 
and  teaches  it  wisdom,  as  we  see  throughout  the  Holy 
Scriptures.  He  showed  His  glory  in  the  cloud  which 
covered  the  tabernacle;*  and  between  the  seraphim 
which  covered  their  faces  and  their  feet  with  their 
wings. f  To  Jeremias  He  showed  ‘a  rod  watching;’* 
and  to  Daniel  a  multitude  of  visions. 

3.  The  devil,  also,  with  visions  of  his  own,  seemingly 
good,  labours  to  delude  the  soul.  We  have  an  instance 
of  it  in  the  history  of  the  kings  of  Israel,  where  we  read 
that  he  deceived  the  prophets  of  Achab,  by  representing 
to  them  the  figure  of  horns,  by  which  the  king  was  to 
push  Syria  till  he  destroyed  it.§  Yet,  all  was  a  delusion. 
Such  also  was  the  vision  of  Pilate’s  wife  concerning  the 
condemnation  of  Christ,  and  many  others. 

4.  In  the  case  of  those  who  have  made  some  spiritual 
progress,  visions  of  the  imagination  are  of  more  frequent 
occurrence  than  bodily  and  exterior  visions.  There  is 
no  difference  between  them  and  those  of  the  outward 
senses,  considered  as  images  and  representations  ;  but 
there  is  a  great  difference  in  the  effect  they  produce,  and 
in  their  perfectness :  they  are  more  pure,  and  make  a 
deeper  impresssion  on  the  soul,  inasmuch  as  they  are 
supernatural  and  at  the  same  time  more  interior  than 
the  exterior  supernatural  visions,  still,  notwithstanding, 
some  bodily  exterior  visions  produce  a  greater  effect,  for 

*  Exod.  xl.  33. 

i  Jer.  i.  II. 


t  Is.  vi.  2. 

§  3  Kings  xxii.  11,  12. 


136 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.] 

this  depends  on  the  will  of  God  ;  but  I  am  speaking 
of  them  as  they  are  in  themselves,  as  being  more 
interior. 

5.  The  sense  of  fancy  and  imagination  is  ordinarily  that 
to  which  the  devil  applies  himselt  with  all  his  cunning, 
because  it  is  the  portal  of  the  soul,  and  there  too  the 
understanding  takes  up,  or  leaves,  its  wares  as  in  a 
storehouse.  For  this  reason,  therefore,  God  and  the 
devil  too  come  hither  with  images  and  forms  to  be 
presented  to  the  understanding;  though  God  does  not 
make  use  only  of  this  means  to  teach  the  soul,  seeing 
that  He  dwells  substantially  within  it,  and  is  able  to  do 
so  directly  by  Himself,  and  by  other  methods.  I  shall 
not  stop  here  to  explain  how  it  may  be  known  whether 
certain  visions  are  from  God  or  not,  for  that  is  not  my 
object  now,  my  sole  purpose  being  to  direct  the  under¬ 
standing,  so  that,  in  the  way  of  union  with  the  divine 
wisdom,  it  shall  not  be  embarrassed  or  hindered  by  those 
which  are  good,  nor  deluded  by  those  which  are  evil. 

6.  I  say,  therefore,  with  respect  to  all  these  impressions 
and  imaginary  visions,  and  others  of  whatever  kind  they 
may  be,  which  present  themselves  under  forms  or 
images,  or  any  particular  intelligible  forms,  whether 
false  as  coming  from  the  devil,  or  known  to  be  true  as 
coming  from  God,  that  the  understanding  is  not  to 
perplex  itself  about  them,  nor  feed  itself  upon  them  ;  the 
soul  must  not  willingly  accept  them,  nor  rest  upon  them, 
in  order  that  it  may  be  detached,  naked,  pure,  and 
sincerely  simple,  which  is  the  condition  of  the  divine 
union.  The  reason  of  this  is  that  all  these  forms  are 
never  represented  so  as  to  be  laid  hold  of  but  under 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


137 


[CHAP.  XVI.] 

certain  ways  and  limitations  ;  and  the  divine  wisdom  to 
which  the  understanding-  is  to  be  united  admits  of  no 
such  limitations  or  forms,  neither  can  it  be  comprehended 
under  any  particular  image,  because  it  is  all  pureness 
and  simplicity.  However,  if  two  extremes  are  to  be 
united  together,  such  as  the  soul  and  the  divine  wisdom, 
it  is  necessary  that  they  should  meet  under  a  certain  kind 
of  mutual  resemblance ;  and  hence  the  soul  must  be  also 
pure  and  simple,  not  limited,  not  adhering  to  any  par¬ 
ticular  intelligence,  and  unmodified  by  any  forms,  figures, 
or  image.  As  God  is  not  comprehended  under  any 
form,  or  likeness,  or  particular  conception,  so  the  soul 
also,  if  it  is  to  be  united  to  Him,  must  not  be  under  the 
power  of  any  particular  form  or  conception.  God  has  no 
form  or  likeness,  as  the  Holy  Ghost  tells  us  :  ‘  You  heard 
the  voice  of  His  words,  but  you  saw  not  any  form  at  all.’* 
But  he  also  says,  ‘  That  there  was  darkness,  and  a  cloud, 
and  obscurity,’ f  which  is  the  dark  night  in  which  the  soul 
is  united  to  God.  He  says  further  on,  ‘  You  saw  not  any 
similitude  in  the  day  that  the  Lord  God  spoke  to  you  in 
Horeb  from  the  midst  of  the  fire.’i 

7.  The  soul  can  never  attain  to  the  height  of  the  divine 
union,  so  far  as  it  is  possible  in  this  life,  through  the 
medium  of  any  forms  or  figures.  This  truth  is  set  before 
us  by  the  same  Spirit  of  God  in  the  book  of  Numbers, 
where  we  read  of  the  rebuking  of  Aaron  and  Mary, 
because  they  had  murmured  against  their  brother.  God 
then  would  have  them  understand  the  high  estate  of  union 
and  friendship  with  Himself  to  which  He  had  raised 
Moses.  ‘  If  there  be  among  you,’  said  God,  ‘  a  prophet 

*  Deut.  iv,  12.  t  lb.  iv.  u.  t  lb.  iv.  15. 


138 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.] 

of  the  Lord,  I  will  appear  to  him  in  a  vision,  or  I  will 
speak  to  him  in  a  dream  ;  but  it  is  not  so  with  My  servant 
Moses  who  is  most  faithful  in  all  My  house,  for  I  speak 
to  him  mouth  to  mouth  and  plainly,  and  not  by  riddles 
and  figures  doth  he  see  the  Lord.’*  It  is  evident  from 
this,  that  in  the  high  state  of  the  union  of  love,  God  does 
not  communicate  Himself  to  the  soul  under  the  disguise 
of  imaginary  visions,  similitudes,  or  figures,  neither  is 
there  place  for  such,  but  mouth  to  mouth  ;  that  is,  it  is  in 
the  pure  and  naked  essence  of  God,  which  is  as  it  were 
the  mouth  of  God  in  love,  that  He  communicates  Himself 
to  the  pure  and  naked  essence  of  the  soul,  through  the 
will  which  is  the  mouth  of  the  soul  in  the  love  of  God. 

8.  The  soul,  therefore,  that  will  ascend  to  this  perfect 
union  with  God,  must  be  careful  not  to  lean  upon 
imaginary  visions,  forms,  figures,  and  particular  intelli¬ 
gible  objects,  for  these  things  can  never  serve  as 
proportionate  or  proximate  means  towards  so  great  an 
end ;  yea,  rather  they  are  an  obstacle  in  the  way,  and 
therefore  to  be  guarded  against  and  rejected.  For  if  in 
any  case  we  are  to  admit  these  visions  and  esteem  them, 
that  must  be  for  the  profit  and  good  effects  of  true  visions 
in  the  soul ;  but  it  is  not  necessary,  to  secure  these  good 
effects,  that  we  should  admit  the  visions  ;  yea,  rather  it 
is  always  necessary  to  reject  them  that  we  may  profit 
the  more  by  them.  The  fruit  of  these  imaginary  visions, 
and  also  of  the  exterior  bodily  visions,  is  the  communica¬ 
tion  of  knowledge,  love,  or  sweetness,  but  it  is  not 
necessary  for  this  result  that  we  should  admit  them 
willingly.  For  as  I  have  already  said,  when  these  visions 

*  Num,  xii.  6,  7,  8. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


139 


[CHAP.  XVI.] 

are  present  to  the  imagination  they  infuse  into  the  soul 
that  knowledge,  love,  or  sweetness,  according  to  the 
good  pleasure  of  God ;  and  thus  the  soul  passively 
receives  their  quickening  effects  without  being  able  on 
its  own  part  to  hinder  them  any  more  than  it  could 
acquire  them,  notwithstanding  its  previous  efforts  to 
dispose  itself  for  that  end. 

9.  The  soul  in  some  respects  resembles  a  window  which 
cannot  repel  the  rays  of  the  sun  striking  against  it,  but 
which  is  disposed  for  the  reception  thereof,  and  is 
passively  illuminated  thereby,  without  care  or  effort  on 
its  own  part.  Thus  the  soul  cannot  but  receive  the 
inflowing  and  communications  of  these  representations, 
because  the  will  negatively  disposed,  cannot,  in  its  state  of 
humble  and  loving  resignation,  resist  the  supernatural 
influence ;  though,  no  doubt,  its  impureness  and  imper¬ 
fections  are  a  hindrance,  as  stains  on  the  glass  obscure 
the  light. 

10.  It  is  clear  from  this,  then,  that  the  soul,  the  more  it  is 
detached  in  will  and  affections  from  the  stains  of  impres¬ 
sions,  images,  and  representations,  in  which  the  spiritual 
communications  are  involved,  not  only  does  not  deprive 
itself  of  these  communications,  and  the  blessings  of 
which  they  are  the  cause,  but  is  thereby  the  more 
disposed  for  their  reception,  and  that  in  greater 
abundance,  clearness,  liberty  of  spirit,  and  singleness  of 
mind;  all  the  impressions,  veils,  and  shadows,  which 
hide  the  deeper  spirituality  within,  being  cast  aside.  If 
we  feed  upon  them,  sense  and  spirit  are  so  filled,  that 
spiritual  communication  cannot  freely  and  in  simplicity 
be  made  to  us ;  for  while  we  are  occupied  with  the  outer 


140  THE  ASCENT  [BOOK  II.] 

covering,  the  understanding  is  not  free  to  receive  the 
substance  within.  If  the  soul  will  admit,  and  make 
much  of,  these  impressions,  the  result  will  be  embarrass¬ 
ment,  and  resting  satisfied  with  that  which  of  the  least 
importance  in  them,  namely,  with  all  that  it  can  grasp  and 
and  comprehend,  the  form,  the  representation,  and  the 
particular  conception.  The  chief  part  of  them,  the 
spiritual  part  infused,  eludes  its  grasp,  and  is  beyond  its 
comprehension ;  the  soul  cannot  discern  or  explain  it, 
because  it  is  wholly  spiritual.  That  only  can  it  perceive 
which  is  of  least  value,  namely  the  sensible  forms 
which  are  within  the  reach  of  its  own  understand¬ 
ing  ;  and  for  this  cause  I  maintain  that  the  soul, 
passively,  without  any  intellectual  effort,  and  without 
knowing  how  to  make  any  such  effort,  receives  through 
these  visions  what  it  can  neither  understand  nor 
imagine. 

11.  For  these  reasons,  therefore,  the  eyes  of  the  soul  must 
be  continually  turned  aside  from  these  visible  and 
distinctly  intelligible  things,  communicated  through  the 
senses,  which  form  neither  the  foundation  nor  the 
security  of  faith,  and  be  fixed  on  the  invisible,  not  on 
the  things  of  sense  but  on  those  of  the  Spirit  which  are 
not  cognisable  by  sense ;  for  it  is  this  that  lifts  up  the  soul 
to  union  in  faith  which  is  the  proper  medium.  And  thus 
these  visions  will  subsequently  profit  the  soul  in  the 
attainment  of  faith  when  it  shall  have  perfectly  renounced 
all  that  sense  and  the  understanding  find  in  them ;  and 
when  it  shall  have  duly  applied  itself  to  that  end  which 
God  had  in  view  when  He  sent  them,  by  detaching  itself 
from  them.  Because,  as  I  have  said  before  of  bodily 


141 


[CHAP.  XVI.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

visions,  God  does  not  send  them  that  the  soul  may  admit 
them  and  set  its  affections  upon  them. 

12.  But  here  arises  this  doubt ;  if  it  be  true  that  these 
supernatural  visions  are  sent  from  God,  not  for  the 
purpose  of  being  received,  clung  to,  and  prized  by  the 
soul,  why  then  are  they  sent  at  all,  seeing  that  they  are 
the  source  of  many  errors  and  dangers,  and  are  at  least 
inconveniences,  hindering  our  further  advancement  ? 
God  being  able  to  communicate  spiritually  to  the  very 
substance  of  the  soul  that  which  He  thus  communicates 
through  the  senses  in  visions  and  sensible  forms. 

13.  I  shall  reply  to  this  doubt  in  the  following  chapter. 
The  doctrine  on  this  subject  is  most  important,  and  in 
my  opinion  exceedingly  necessary  as  well  for  spiritual 
persons  as  for  those  who  have  the  direction  of  them.  I 
shall  therein  explain  the  way  of  God  in  them,  and  the 
end  He  has  in  view,  the  ignorance  of  which  renders 
many  unable  to  control  themselves,  or  to  guide  others 
through  these  visions  along  the  road  of  union.  They 
imagine,  the  moment  they  have  ascertained  the  visions 
to  be  true  and  from  God,  that  they  may  lean  upon  them 
and  cleave  to  them  ;  not  considering  that  the  soul  will 
find  in  them  that  which  is  natural  to  itself,  that  it  will 
set  its  affections  upon  them  and  be  embarrassed  by 
them,  as  by  the  things  of  this  world,  if  it  does  not  repel 
them  as  it  repels  these.  In  this  state  of  mind  they  will 
think  it  right  to  accept  the  visions,  and  to  reject  worldly 
things,  thereby  exposing  themselves  and  the  souls  they 
direct  to  great  dangers  and  vexations  in  discerning  the 
truth  or  falsehood  of  these  visions.  God  does  not  bid 
them  to  undertake  this  labour  or  to  expose  simple  and 


142 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.] 

sincere  souls  to  this  hazard ;  for  He  has  given  them  the 
sound  and  safe  teaching  of  the  faith,  whereby  to  direct 
their  steps,  which  cannot  be  followed  without  shutting 
our  eyes  against  every  object  of  sense,  and  of  clear  and 
particular  perception.  St.  Peter  was  perfectly  certain 
of  that  vision  of  glory  which  he  saw  when  our  Lord  was 
transfigured,  yet  after  relating  it,  he  bids  us  walk  by 
faith,  saying,  ‘We  have  the  more  firm  prophetical  word  : 
whereunto  you  do  well  to  attend,  as  to  a  light  that 
shineth  in  a  dark  place.’*  This  comparison  involves  the 
doctrine  which  I  am  teaching.  For  in  saying  that  we 
should  look  to  faith  of  which  the  prophets  spoke,  as  to  a 
light  that  shineth  in  a  dark  place,  he  bids  us  remain  in 
darkness,  shutting  our  eyes  to  all  other  light,  and  tells 
us  that  this  darkness  of  faith,  which  is  also  obscure, 
ought  to  be  the  only  light  to  which  we  should  trust.  For 
if  we  rely  on  other  lights,  clear  and  distinct,  of  the 
understanding,  we  have  ceased  to  rely  on  the  obscurity 
of  faith,  which  has  therefore  ceased  to  shine  in  the  dark 
place,  as  the  Apostle  speaks.  This  place  is  the  under¬ 
standing,  which  is  the  candlestick  to  hold  the  light  of 
faith.  In  this  life,  the  understanding  must  therefore  be 
in  darkness  until  the  day  of  our  transformation  and  union 
with  Him,  towards  Whom  the  soul  is  travelling ;  or 
until  the  day  of  the  clear  vision  of  God  shall  have  dawned 
in  the  life  to  come. 


*  2  St.  Bet.  i.  19. 


[CHAP.  XVII.] 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


143 


CHAPTER  XVII. 

Of  the  ends  and  way  of  God  in  communicating  spiritual  blessings 
to  the  soul  through  the  senses.  Answer  to  the  question 
proposed. 

I  HAVE  much  to  say  of  the  end  which  God  has  in  view, 
and  of  the  ways  He  employs,  when  He  sends  visions  to 
raise  up  the  soul  from  its  lukewarmness  to  the  divine 
union  with  Himself.  This  is  treated  of  in  all  spiritual 
books,  and  I  shall  therefore  confine  myself  here  to  the 
solution  of  the  question  before  us.  That  question  is 
this  :  Why  does  God  Who  is  most  wise,  and  ever  ready 
to  remove  every  snare  and  every  stumbling-block  from 
before  us,  send  us  these  supernatural  visions,  seeing  that 
they  are  so  full  of  danger,  and  so  perplexing  to  us  in  our 
further  progress  ? 

2.  To  answer  this  we  have  three  principles  to  take  for 
granted.  The  first  is  thus  expressed  by  St.  Paul : 
‘Those  that  are,  are  ordained  of  God.’*  That  is,  all 
that  is  done  is  done  according  to  the  ordinance  of  God. 
The  second  is  expressed  by  the  Holy  Ghost  saying 
of  wisdom  that  it  ‘  ordereth  all  things  sweetly.’f  The 
third  is  an  axiom  of  theology,  God  moveth  all 
things  in  harmony  with  their  constitution. +  According 
to  these  principles,  then,  it  it  evident  that  God,  when  He 
raises  the  soul  from  the  depths  of  its  own  vileness  to  the 
opposite  heights  of  His  own  dignity  in  union  with  Him¬ 
self,  worketh  orderly,  sweetly,  and  in  harmony  with  the 
constitution  of  the  soul.  As  the  process  by  which  the 

*  Rom.  xiii.  I.  t  Wisd.  viii.  I. 

X  Deus  omnia  movet  secundum  modum  eorum. 


144 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.] 


soul  acquires  knowledge  rests  on  the  forms  and  images 
or  created  things,  and  as  the  mode  of  its  understanding 
and  perception  is  that  of  the  senses,  it  follows  that  God, 
in  order  to  raise  it  up  to  the  highest  knowledge,  orderly 
and  sweetly,  must  begin  with  the  lower  senses,  that  He 
may  thus  raise  it  up  in  harmony  with  its  constitution  to 
the  supreme  wisdom  of  the  Spirit  which  is  not  cognisable 
by  sense.  For  this  reason  he  leads  the  soul  first  of  all 
through  forms,  images,  and  sensible  ways,  proportionate 
to  its  capacity,  whether  natural  or  supernatural,  and 
through  reflections,  upwards  to  His  own  supreme  Spirit. 
This  is  the  cause  of  His  sending  visions  and  imaginary 
forms,  and  other  sensible  and  intelligible  means  of 
knowledge.  Not  because  he  could  not  in  an  instant 
communicate  the  substance  of  the  Spirit,  provided  that 
the  two  extremes,  the  human  and  divine,  that  is,  sense 
and  spirit,  were  ordinarily  able  to  meet  together,  and 
to  be  united  in  a  single  act,  without  the  previous  inter¬ 
vention  of  many  disposing  acts,  which  orderly  and 
sweetly  concur  together,  one  being  the  foundation  and 
the  preparation  for  the  other,  as  in  natural  operations 
where  the  first  subserves  the  second,  that  the  next,  and 
so  onwards.  Thus  the  way  in  which  God  leads  man 
to  perfection  is  the  way  of  his  natural  constitution, 
raising  him  up  from  what  is  vile  and  exterior  to  that 
which  is  interior  and  noble. 


3.  In  the  first  place  He  perfects  him  in  the  bodily  senses, 
moving  him  to  make  a  right  use  of  good  things  which 
in  themselves  are  natural,  perfect,  and  exterior ;  such  as 
hearing  mass  and  sermons,  veneration  of  holy  things, 
mortification  of  the  appetite  at  meals,  the  maceratior  of 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


145 


[CHAP.  XVII. J 

the  body  by  penance,  and  the  chastening  of  the  sense  of 
touch  by  holy  austerities.  And  when  the  senses  are  in 
some  measure  prepared,  God  is  wont  to  perfect  them  still 
more  by  granting  them  certain  supernatural  favours  and 
consolations  that  they  may  be  confirmed  the  more  in 
goodness.  He  sends  to  them  certain  supernatural 
communications,  such  as  visions  of  saints  or  of  holy 
things  in  bodily  form,  delicious  odours,  locutions  accom¬ 
panied  by  a  pure  and  singular  sweetness,  whereby  the 
very  senses  are  greatly  strengthened  in  virtue  and  with¬ 
drawn  from  the  desire  of  evil  things.  Besides,  He 
perfects  also  the  interior  bodily  senses,  of  which  I  am 
now  speaking,  the  imagination  and  the  fancy,  at  the 
same  time,  and  accustoms  them  to  good,  through  con¬ 
siderations,  meditations,  and  holy  reflections,  according 
to  the  measure  of  their  capacity,  and  in  all  this  teaches 
and  informs  the  mind.  And  when  the  interior  senses  are 
disposed  by  this  natural  exercise,  God  is  wont  to 
enlighten  them,  and  to  spiritualise  them,  more  and 
more,  through  the  instrumentality  of  certain  super¬ 
natural  visions,  which  I  have  called  imaginary ;  from 
which  the  mind  at  the  same  time  derives  great  profit,  and 
through  the  interior  and  exterior  visions  casts  off  its 
natural  rudeness  and  becomes  by  degrees  refined. 

4.  This  is  the  way  God  raises  the  soul  step  by  step  to 
that  which  is  interior.  Not  that  it  is  necessary  for  Him 
to  observe  this  order  and  succession  of  progress,  for  He 
occasionally  effects  one  degree  without  the  other,  as  he 
sees  it  expedient  for  a  particular  soul,  and  as  it  pleases 
Him  to  dispense  His  graces;  still  His  ordinary  way  is 
as  I  have  said.  This  is  the  ordinary  method  of  God 


J46 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.] 

in  teaching-  and  spiritualising  the  soul ;  He  begins  by 
communicating  to  it  spiritual  things  through  things 
outward^  palpable,  and  appropriate  to  sense,  condescend¬ 
ing  to  its  weakness  and  the  slight  measure  of  its  powers; 
so  that  through  the  veil  of  exterior  objects,  in  themselves 
good,  the  mind,  forming  particular  acts,  and  receiving 
such  portions  of  the  spiritual  communication,  may 
acquire  the  habit  of  spirituality  and  attain  to  the 
substance  of  the  Spirit,  to  which  sense  is  a  stranger, 
and  which  the  soul  could  never  reach  but  by  little  and 
little  in  its  own  way,  through  the  senses,  on  which  it  has 
always  rested.  And  thus  in  proportion  as  it  approaches 
spirituality  in  its  converse  with  God,  does  it  detach  itself 
from,  and  empty  itself  of,  the  ways  of  sense,  that  is,  of 
reflections,  meditation,  and  imagination.  And  when  it 
shall  have  attained  perfectly  to  converse  in  spirit  with 
God,  it  must  of  necessity  have  emptied  itself  of  all  that 
relates  to  that  converse  which  falls  under  the  cognisance 
of  sense. 

5.  Thus,  when  an  object  is  attracted  to  one  extreme,  the 
more  it  recedes  from  the  other  the  nearer  it  approaches  ; 
and  when  it  shall  have  completely  reached  the  point  to 
which  it  tends,  it  will  then  be  completely  withdrawn  from 
the  other.  This  is  the  spiritual  maxim  so  generally 
known  :  Gustato  Spiritu ,  desipit  omnis  caro.  When  we 
have  tasted  the  sweetness  of  the  Spirit,  all  that  is  flesh 
becomes  insipid ;  that  is,  it  profits  us  no  more,  and  the 
ways  of  sense  are  no  longer  pleasing.  This  maxim  refers 
to  all  the  ways  in  which  sense  may  be  employed  about 
spiritual  things.  This  is  evident:  for  if  a  thing  be 
spiritual  it  falls  not  under  the  cognisance  of  the  senses. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


147 


[CHAP.  XVII.] 

and  if  it  be  such  as  is  comprehensible  by  sense,  then  is  it 
no  longer  purely  spiritual.  For  the  more  anything  is 
comprehended  by  sense  and  our  natural  perceptions,  the 
less  it  has  of  the  Spirit  and  of  the  supernatural. 

6.  The  spiritual  man,  therefore,  having  attained  to  per¬ 
fection,  makes  no  account  of  sense,  receives  nothing 
through  it,  does  not  avail  himself  of  it,  neither  has  he 
any  need  of  it  in  his  converse  with  God,  as  before,  when 
he  had  not  received  the  increase  of  the  Spirit.  This  is 
the  meaning  of  St.  Paul  when  he  said  to  the  Corinthians: 
‘  When  I  was  a  child,  I  spoke  as  a  child,  I  understood  as 
a  child,  I  thought  as  a  child.  But  when  I  became  a  man, 
I  put  away  the  things  of  a  child.’*  I  have  already  said 
that  the  objects  of  sense  and  the  knowledge  which  results 
from  them  are  the  occupations  of  a  child.  That  soul 
which  ever  clings  to  these,  and  which  never  detaches 
itself  from  them,  will  never  cease  to  be  a  child ;  as  a 
child  will  it  always  speak,  understand,  and  think  of  God, 
because  relying  on  the  outward  veil  of  the  senses  which 
is  childish,  it  will  never  attain  to  the  substance  of  the 
Spirit,  which  is  the  perfect  man.  And  so  the  soul  ought 
not  to  admit  revelations,  with  a  view  to  its  own  spiritual 
growth,  even  though  God  should  send  them ;  for  the 
infant  must  abandon  the  breasts  if  it  is  to  become 
accustomed  to  more  solid  and  substantial  food. 

7.  Is  it  necessary  then,  you  will  ask,  that  the  soul,  in  its 
spiritual  infancy,  should  accept  these  revelations,  and 
abandon  them  when  it  has  grown  ;  for  the  infant  must 
seek  its  nourishment  at  the  breast  to  be  able  to  leave  it 
when  the  time  is  come  ?  My  answer  is,  that  with  regard 

*  I  Cor.  xiii.  II. 

K2 


148 


THE  ASCENT 


[book  n.] 

to  meditation  and  natural  reflections,  through  which  the 
soul  begins  its  search  after  God,  it  must  not,  it  is  true, 
abandon  the  breast  of  the  interior  senses,  to  support 
itself,  until  the  time  has  come  when  it  may  do  so.  That 
time  is  come  when  God  raises  the  soul  to  a  more  spiritual 
converse  with  Himself,  which  is  contemplation,  and  of 
that  I  spoke  in  the  eleventh  chapter  of  this  book.  Still 
I  maintain  that  these  imaginary  visions  or  other  super¬ 
natural  impressions,  to  which  the  senses  are  subject 
without  the  assent  of  the  will,  are,  upon  all  occasions 
and  at  all  times,  whether  in  the  perfect  or  less  perfect 
state,  and  notwithstanding  their  coming  from  God,  not 
to  be  sought  after,  nor  dwelt  upon  by  the  soul ;  and  this 
for  two  reasons  : — 

8.  First,  because  these  visions  produce  their  effects 
passively  in  the  soul,  without  its  being  able  on  its  own 
part  to  hinder  them,  though  it  may  do  something  towards 
hindering  the  manner  of  the  vision ;  consequently  the 
secondary  effects  which  it  is  intended  to  produce  are 
much  more  substantially  wrought,  though  not  in  that 
way.  For  in  renouncing  them  with  humility  and  fear, 
there  is  neither  imperfection  nor  selfishness,  but  rather 
disinterestedness  and  emptiness  of  self,  which  is  the  best 
disposition  for  union  with  God. 

9.  Secondly,  because  we  are  thereby  delivered  from  the 
risk  and  labour  of  discerning  between  good  and  bad 
visions,  and  of  ascertaining  whether  the  angel  of  light 
or  of  darkness  is  at  hand.  The  attempt  to  do  so  is  not 
profitable  at  all,  but  rather  waste  of  time,  an  occasion  of 
many  imperfections  and  delay  on  the  spiritual  journey. 
That  is  not  the  way  to  direct  a  soul  in  matters  which  are 


149 


[CHAP.  XVH.J  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

of  real  importance,  nor  to  relieve  it  of  the  vexation  ol 
trifles  which  are  involved  in  particular  apprehensions 
and  perceptions,  as  I  have  said  with  respect  to  bodily- 
visions  and  to  those  of  the  imagination,  and  as  I  shall 
have  to  say  again.  Believe  me,  our  Lord  would  never 
have  communicated  the  abundance  of  the  Spirit  through 
these  channels,  so  narrow,  of  forms  and  figures  and 
particular  perceptions,  by  which,  as  if  by  crumbs,  He 
sustains  the  soul,  if  He  had  not  to  raise  up  that  soul  to 
Himself  in  the  way  appropriate  to  its  constitution.  This 
is  the  meaning  of  the  Psalmist  when  he  said :  ‘  He 
sendeth  His  crystal  like  morsels.’*  The  wisdom  of  God 
is  His  crystal.  How  sad  it  is  that  the  soul,  whose 
capacity  is  as  it  were  infinite,  should  be  fed  by  morsels 
through  the  senses,  because  of  its  want  of  generosity, 
and  because  of  its  sensual  weakness.  St.  Paul  also  saw 
with  grief  this  littleness  of  mind  and  absence  of  good 
spiritual  dispositions,  when  he  said  to  the  Corinthians  : 
‘  And  I,  brethren,  could  not  speak  to  you  as  unto  spiritual, 
but  as  unto  carnal.  As  unto  little  ones  in  Christ,  I  gave 
you  milk  to  drink,  not  meat :  for  you  were  not  able  as 
yet.  But  neither  indeed  are  you  now  able,  for  you  are 
yet  carnal. ’f 

10.  Let  us,  then,  keep  in  mind  that  the  soul  must  not 
regard  these  figures  and  objects,  which  are  but  the  rind, 
when  supernaturally  set  before  it ;  whether  occurring 
through  the  exterior  senses,  as  voices  and  words  in  the 
ear,  visible  visions  of  the  saints  and  beautiful  lights, 
odours  to  the  smell,  sweetness  to  the  palate,  and  other 
delectations  of  the  touch,  which  are  wont  to  proceed 
*  Ps.  cxlvii.  17,  t  i  Cor.  iii.  1,  2. 


150 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.] 


from  the  Spirit;  or  through  the  interior  senses  as  the 
interior  imaginary  visions.  These  things  the  soul  must 
not  regard  :  yea,  rather  it  must  renounce  them  wholly, 
having  its  eyes  fixed  on  that  spiritual  good  alone  which 
they  effect,  labouring  to  preserve  it  in  good  works,  and 
employing  itself  in  that  which  is  purely  for  the  service 
of  God  without  reference  to  these  visions,  and  without 
seeking  for  sensible  sweetness.  In  this  way  we  shall 
reap  from  these  visions  that  fruit  only  which  God  intends 
and  wills,  a  spirit  of  devotion,  for  that  is  the  chief  end, 
and  none  other,  for  which  He  sends  them ;  and  we  shall 
also  pass  by  that  which  He  too  would  have  passed  by,  if 
vve  could  without  it,  namely,  the  usage  and  appliance  of 
sense,  have  received  the  blessings  He  intends  to  confer. 


CHAPTER  XVIII. 

How  souls  are  injured  because  their  spiritual  directors  do  not 
guide  them  aright  amid  these  visions.  How  these  visions, 
though  from  God,  become  occasions  of  error. 

I  CANNOT  be  so  concise  with  respect  to  visions  as  I  desire, 
because  of  the  abundance  of  the  matter.  And  therefore, 
though  I  have  said  enough,  in  substance,  for  the  instruc¬ 
tion  of  the  spiritual  man ;  how  he  is  to  order  himself 
when  visions  occur,  and.  also  for  the  spiritual  director 
who  guides  him,  how  he  is  to  demean  himself  with  his 
penitent :  I  think  it  not  superfluous  to  enter  further  into 
the  details  of  this  doctrine,  and  to  bring  into  clearer 
light  the  evils  that  may  happen  to  the  penitent  on  the 
one  hand,  and  his  director  on  the  other,  should  they  be 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


151 


[CHAP.  XVIII.] 

too  credulous  in  the  matter  of  visions,  even  if  those 
visions  come  from  God.  What  leads  me  to  enlarge  upon 
this  subject,  is  the  little  discretion  which,  I  think,  I  have 
observed  among  certain  spiritual  directors,  who,  having 
too  great  a  reliance  on  these  supernatural  impressions, 
because  they  have  ascertained  them  to  be  good  and  from 
God,  have  fallen,  together  with  their  penitents,  into  great 
errors,  and  involved  themselves  in  many  difficulties ; 
thereby  verifying  the  words  of  our  Lord,  ‘  If  the  blind 
lead  the  blind,  both  fall  into  the  pit.’  * 

2.  Our  Lord  does  not  say  they  shall  fall,  but  they  fall : 
for  it  is  not  necessary  for  such  a  fall  that  it  should  be  one 
of  manifest  delusion ;  the  fall  is  complete  in  the 
venturing  upon  such  a  mode  of  direction,  and  thus,  at 
least,  both  the  director  and  the  penitent  fall  together. 
There  are  some  spiritual  directors  who  fall  at  once  into 
error,  because  their  instructions  to  those,  who  are  liable 
to  visions,  are  such  as  to  lead  them  astray  or  perplex 
them  with  regard  to  their  visions ;  or  they  do  not  direct 
them  in  the  way  of  humility.  They  suffer  their  penitents 
to  make  much  of  their  visions,  which  is  the  reason  why 
they  walk  not  according  to  the  pure  and  perfect  spirit  of 
faith ;  neither  do  they  build  them  up  nor  strengthen 
them  in  faith,  while  they  attach  so  much  importance  to 
these  visions. 

3.  This  kind  of  direction  shows  that  they  themselves 
consider  visions  matters  of  importance  ;  and  their 
penitents,  observing  this,  follow  their  example,  dwelling 
upon  these  visions,  not  buildipg  themselves  up  in  faith  ; 


St.  Matt.  xv.  14. 


;52 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.] 

neither  do  they  withdraw,  nor  detach  themselves  from 
them,  so  that  they  may  take  their  flight  upwards  in  the 
obscurity  of  faith.  All  this  results  from  the  language 
and  conduct  of  spiritual  directors  ;  for  somehow,  a 
certain  sense  of  satisfaction  which  is  not  in  our  control 
arises  from  these  things,  and  withdraws  our  eyes  from 
the  abyss  of  faith.  The  reason  why  this  so  easily  takes 
place,  must  be  that  the  soul  is  so  occupied  with  them, 
for  inasmuch  as  they  are  objects  of  sense,  to  which  we 
are  naturally  inclined,  and  as  we  have  had  experience  of 
them,  and  are  disposed  for  the  apprehension  of  things 
distinct  and  sensible ;  it  is  enough  to  see  our  confessor 
or  any  other  person  appreciate  them,  to  induce  us  not 
only  to  do  the  same,  but  also  to  indulge  our  desire  for 
them,  to  feed  upon  them  unconsciously,  to  be  more  and 
more  inclined  to  them,  and  to  hold  them  in  greater 
estimation. 

4.  This  kind  of  direction  is,  at  least,  a  source  of  many 
imperfections,  for  the  soul  is  no  longer  humble,  but 
thinks  itself  to  be  something  good,  and  that  God  makes 
much  of  it ;  and  so  it  goes  on  contented  and  satisfied 
with  itself,  which  is  contrary  to  humility.  The  devil 
also  at  once  applies  himself  in  secret  to  foster  this 
feeling,  while  the  soul  is  not  aware  of  it,  and  suggests 
to  it  thoughts  about  other  people,  whether  they  have  had 
visions  or  not,  or  whether  they  are  or  are  not  such  as 
they  seem  to  be :  all  this  is  contrary  to  holy  simplicity 
and  spiritual  solitude.  These  evils  they  cannot  avoid, 
because  they  do  not  grow  in  faith.  Besides,  if  souls  do 
not  fall  into  evils  as  palpable  as  these,  they  fall  into 
r  Jhers  of  a  more  subtle  nature,  and  more  hateful  in  the 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


153 


[CHAP.  XVIII.] 

eyes  of  God,  simply  because  they  are  not  living  in 
detachment. 

5.  For  the  present,  I  shall  pursue  this  subject  no  fur¬ 
ther,  as  I  shall  have  to  resume  it  when  I  have  to  treat  of 
spiritual  gluttony,  and  the  other  six  capital  vices.* 
Then,  indeed,  I  shall  have  much  to  say  of  these  minute 
and  subtle  stains,  which  defile  the  mind  because  of  the 
failure  of  true  direction  in  detachment.  I  shall  now 
speak  of  the  method  of  direction  observed  by  some  whose 
guidance  of  souls  is  not  good.  I  wish  I  could  do  this 
well ;  for  in  truth,  it  is  a  difficult  thing  to  explain  how 
the  mind  of  the  penitent  becomes  secretly  conformed  to 
that  of  his  director.  It  appears  to  me  that  we  cannot 
understand  the  one  without  understanding  the  other. 
Moreover,  as  they  are  spiritual  things,  the  one  cor¬ 
responds  with  the  other. 

6  It  seems  to  me — and  I  believe  it  to  be  true— that,  if 
the  spiritual  director  be  a  man  who  has  a  weakness  for 
revelations,  who  is  impressed  by  them,  and  feels  in  them 
a  sort  of  pleasurable  satisfaction,  he  must  communicate, 
without  intending  it,  the  same  feelings  to  the  mind  of 
his  penitent,  unless  the  latter  be  more  advanced  in 
spirituality  than  he  is  himself.  But  even  if  that  be  the 
case,  he  must  do  his  penitent  grievous  harm  if  he  con¬ 
tinues  to  direct  him.  Out  of  this  weakness  of  the  director 
for  revelations,  and  his  satisfaction  in  them,  arises  a 
certain  kind  of  appreciation  of  them,  which,  without  the 
utmost  care  on  his  part,  he  cannot  but  make  manifest  to 
his  penitent ;  and  if  the  penitent  have  the  same  inclina- 


*  Ilk.  iij,,  pjb.  j*,;  and  more  fully  in  Dark  Night  of  the  Soul,  Jlk.  i. 


154 


THE  ASCENT  [BOOK  II.J 

tion,  in  my  opinion  this  weakness  will  be  increased  in 
both  by  their  mutual  intercourse. 

7.  I  will  not  enter  into  minute  details  on  this  subject, 
and  will  therefore  speak  of  a  director,  who,  whether  having 
a  weakness  for  visions  or  not,  is  not  so  cautious  in  his 
relations  with  his  penitent  as  he  ought  to  be,  so  as  to 
relieve  him  of  his  embarrassments,  and  detach  him  in 
desire  from  these  visions ;  but  who  on  the  contrary 
converses  with  him  on  the  subject,  and  makes  it  the 
chief  matter  of  his  spiritual  instructions,  teaching  him 
how  to  distinguish  between  good  visions  and  evil  ones. 
Though  this  knowledge  be  good,  yet  is  it  not  right  to 
inflict  on  the  penitent  the  labour,  anxiety,  and  danger 
which  it  involves,  unless  in  a  case  of  pressing  necessity ; 
seeing  that  by  giving  no  heed  to  them  all  this  is  avoided, 
and  everything  done  that  ought  to  be  done.  This  is  not 
all ;  for  some  directors,  when  they  see  that  their  peni¬ 
tents  have  visions  from  God,  bid  them  pray  to  Him,  to 
reveal  to  them  such  and  such  things  concerning  them¬ 
selves  or  others,  and  the  simple  souls  obey  them, 
thinking  it  lawful  to  seek  information  in  that  way. 
They  suppose  it  lawful  to  desire,  and  even  to  pray  for, 
a  revelation,  because  it  is  the  good  pleasure  of  God  to 
reveal  something  to  them  in  a  supernatural  way,  in  a 
particular  manner  or  for  a  particular  end.  And  if  God 
grants  to  them  their  petition,  they  become  more  and 
more  confident  on  other  occasions,  and  imagine  God  to  be 
pleased  with  this  mode  of  conversing  with  Him  ;  when  in 
truth  it  is  not  pleasing  to  Him,  and  contrary  to  His  will. 
And  if  they  are  much  given  to  this  mode  of  conversing 
with  God,  they  attach  themselves  to  it,  and  the  will 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


155 


[chap.  XVIII.] 

acquiesces  naturally  in  it ;  for  as  this  naturally  pleases 
them,  they  also  naturally  fall  down  to  the  level  of  their 
own  perceptions,  and  frequently  err  in  what  they  say : 
and  when  they  see  that  events  have  not  answered  their 
expectations  they  are  astonished ;  and  doubts  assail 
them  as  to  whether  their  visions  were  from  God  or  not, 
because  the  issues  correspond  not  with  their  impressions. 

8.  They  seem  to  have  pre-supposed  two  things— the  first, 
that  the  visions  came  from  God,  because  they  had  made 
so  deep  an  impression  upon  them ;  and  this  might  be 
simply  the  effect  of  their  natural  tendency  to  trust  in 
visions.  The  second,  that  as  the  vision  came  from  God, 
so  the  event  ought  to  have  answered  their  expectations 
or  impressions.  This  is  a  grand  delusion,  for  the  revela¬ 
tions  and  words  of  God  are  not  always  fulfilled  as  man 
understands  them,  or  even  in  their  obvious  sense.  We 
must,  therefore,  not  rely  upon  visions,  nor  accept  them 
at  once,  even  when  we  know  that  they  are  revelations, 
answers,  or  words  of  God.  For  though  they  are  certain 
and  true  in  themselves,  it  is  not  of  necessity  that  they 
should  be  so  in  our  sense,  as  I  shall  show  in  the  next 
chapter.  And  I  shall  further  show  also  that  God,  though 
at  times  supernaturally,  answering  petitions  presented  to 
Him,  is  not  pleased  with  this,  and  that  He  is  sometimes 
angry,  though  He  answers. 


156 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.  1 


CHAPTER  XIX. 

Visions,  revelations,  and  locutions,  though  true  and  from 
God,  may  deceive.  Proofs  from  Holy  Scriptures. 

There  are  two  reasons  why  divine  locutions  and  visions 
prove  untrue  to  us,  though  they  are  in  themselves  always 
true  and  certain.  The  first  is  our  defective  under¬ 
standing  of  them,  and  the  second  depends  on  the  cause 
and  ground  of  them :  they  are  frequently  threats,  and 
therefore  conditional,  depending  for  their  fulfilment  on 
penance  done,  or  abstinence  from  particular  acts  ; 
although  at  the  same  time  expressed  in  absolute  terms. 
I  proceed  to  illustrate  this  by  certain  proofs  from  the 
Holy  Writings. 

2.  In  the  first  place,  it  is  clear  that  the  prophecies  do 
not  always  mean  what  we  understand  by  them,  and  that 
the  issues  do  not  correspond  with  our  expectations. 
The  reason  is  that  God  is  infinite  and  most  high,  and 
therefore  His  prophecies,  locutions,  and  revelations, 
involve  other  conceptions,  other  meanings,  widely 
different  from  those  according  to  which  we  measure  our 
own  perceptions  ;  and  they  are  the  more  true  and  the 
more  certain  the  less  they  seem  so  to  our  understanding. 
We  have  instances  of  this  truth  in  the  Holy  Scriptures, 
where  we  read  that  many  prophecies  and  divine 
locutions  disappointed,  in  their  fulfilment,  the  expecta¬ 
tions  of  many  of  the  ancient  people,  because  they 
understood  them  too  much  according  to  the  letter  in 
their  own  way.  This  will  become  clear  if  we  consider 
the  following  examples. 


157 


[CHAP.  XIX.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

3.  When  God  had  brought  Abraham  into  the  land  of 
Chanaan,  He  said  unto  him,  ‘I  brought  thee  out  from 
Ur  of  the  Chaldees  to  give  thee  this  land.’*  But  now 
that  God  had  said  this  to  Abraham  more  than  once,  and 
as  the  patriarch  was  old,  and  the  land  not  yet'  his,  he 
said  unto  God  when  the  promise  was  again  made, 

*  Whereby  may  I  know  that  1  shall  possess  it  ?  ’  f  Then 
God  revealed  to  Abraham  that  it  was  not  he,  but  his 
children,  after  the  lapse  of  four  hundred  years,  who 
were  to  possess  the  land.  Abraham  then  understood 
the  promise,  which  in  itself  was  most  true  :  for  God  by 
giving  the  land  to  his  children,  because  of  the  love  He 
bore  him,  was  giving  it  to  him.  Thus  Abraham  deceived 
himself  while  he  understood  the  promise  in  his  own 
sense.  And  if  he  had  then  acted  on  that  understanding, 
he  would  have  g'reatly  erred,  for  the  time  of  fulfilment 
was  not  come.  Those,  too,  who  saw  him  die  before  he 
had  entered  into  possession  of  the  land,  knowing  the 
promise  which  God  had  made  him,  would  have  been  put 
to  shame,  and  would  have  accounted  the  prophecy  for  a 
talse  one. 

4.  Afterwards,  when  Jacob  his  grandson  was  going  to 
Egypt,  whither  Joseph  had  sent  for  him,  because  of  the 
famine  in  the  land  of  Chanaan,  God  appeared  to  him  on 
the  way,  and  said,  ‘  Fear  not,  go  down  into  Egypt.  I 
will  bring  thee  back  again  from  thence.’ t  This  prophecy 
was  not  fulfilled  as  we  should  understand  it,  for  the  holy 
old  man  died  in  Egypt,  and  never  came  back  alive. 
That  prophecy  was  to  be  fulfilled  in  his  descendants, 
whom  God  brought  back,  after  many  years,  being  Him- 

t  lb.  8.  $  lb.  xlvi.  3,  4- 


*  Gen.  xv.  7. 


158  THE  ASCENT  [BOOK  II.] 

self  their  guide.  Now  anyone  who  might  have  heard  of 
this  prophecy  would  have  been  certain,  that  as  Jacob 
went  down  into  Egypt  by  the  grace  and  command  of 
God,  so  would  he  return  thence  alive  without  fail ;  for  the 
same  promise  extended  to  his  return  and  protection. 
Such  an  one  would  have  been  astonished  and  deceived 
when  he  saw  the  patriarch  die,  and  the  events  not 
answering  to  his  expectation.  Thus,  while  the  promise 
of  God  was  most  certain,  men  might  deceive  themselves 
greatly  about  it. 

5.  The  tribes  of  Israel,  as  we  read  in  the  book  of  the 
Judges,  assembled  together  to  fight  against  that  of 
Benjamin,  because  of  a  certain  evil  deed  which  that  tribe 
had  sanctioned.  God,  too,  appointed  them  a  leader  in 
the  war.  Upon  this  they  were  so  confident  of  success 
that,  when  they  were  defeated  with  the  loss  of  two  and 
twenty  thousand  men,  they  were  filled  with  astonishment, 
and  wept  before  God,  not  knowing  the  cause  of  their 
discomfiture,  for  they  understood  that  victory  had  been 
promised  them.  They  asked  whether  they  should  return 
to  the  fight ;  God  answered  them,  ‘  Go  up  against  them 
and  join  battle.’  They  went  up  the  second  time  with 
great  boldness,  confident  of  victory,  but  were  beaten 
again,  and  eighteen  thousand  of  them  were  slain.  In 
consequence  of  this  they  were  filled  with  confusion,  and 
knew  not  what  to  do.  God  had  commanded  them  to 
fight,  and  they  were  always  beaten,  though  they  sur¬ 
passed  their  enemies  in  courage  and  in  numbers— being 
themselves  four  hundred  thousand  strong,  while  the  tribe 
of  Benjamin  only  mustered  five  and  twenty  thousand  and 
seven  hundred  men.  They  deceived  themselves  by  their 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


159 


[CHAP.  XIX.] 

own  interpretation  of  the  word  of  God,  which  in  itself 
was  true.  God  had  not  said  to  them,  go  forth  and 
conquer,  but  go  forth  and  fight.  And  His  purpose  was  to 
chastise  them  in  this  way  for  their  negligence  and 
presumption,  and  so  to  humble  them.  At  last  God  said 
unto  them,  ‘  Go  up,  for  to-morrow  I  will  deliver  them  into 
your  hands,’  and  then  by  toil  and  stratagem  they  obtained 
the  victory.* 

6.  This  is  one  of  the  many  ways  in  which  souls  deceive 
themselves  in  the  matter  of  revelations  and  divine 
locutions.  They  understand  them  in  the  letter  according 
to  their  apparent  meaning.  For,  as  I  have  said,  the 
chief  purpose  of  God  in  sending  visions  is  to  express  and 
communicate  the  spirit  which  is  hidden  within  them,  and 
which  is  very  hard  to  be  understood.  This  is  much  more 
abundant  than  the  letter,  more  extraordinary,  and 
surpasses  the  limits  thereof.  He,  therefore,  that  will  rely 
on  the  letter  of  the  divine  locution,  or  on  the  intelligible 
form  of  the  vision,  will  of  necessity  fall  into  delusion,  and 
be  put  to  shame  ;  for  he  directs  himself  therein  by  sense, 
and  does  not  yield  to  the  spirit  in  detachment  from  sense, 
‘  The  letter  killeth,’  saith  the  Apostle,  ‘  but  the  spirit 
quiclceneth.’  f  We  must  therefore  reject  the  literal  sense, 
and  abide  in  the  obscurity  of  faith,  which  is  the  spirit, 
incomprehensible  by  sense. 

7.  This  is  the  reason  why  many  of  the  people  of  Israel 
came  to  disregard  and  to  disbelieve  the  words  of  the 
prophets.  They  understood  them  in  a  particular  sense 
according  to  the  letter,  and  were  disappointed  at  their 
non-fulfilment.  To  such  an  extent  did  this  evil  grow 


Judg.  xx.  23 — 28. 


t  2  Cor.  iiL  6. 


1 60  THE  ASCENT  [BOOK  II.J 

among  them  that  they  had  a  current  proverb  in  ridicule 
of  the  prophecies.  Isaias  complains  of  this,  saying  : 
‘  Whom  shall  he  teach  knowledge  ?  and  whom  shall  he 
make  to  understand  the  hearing  r  Them  that  are  weaned 
from  the  milk,  that  are  drawn  away  from  the  breasts. 
For  command,  command  again  ;  command,  command 
again  ;  wait,  wait  again  ;  wait,  wait  again  ;  a  little  there, 
a  little  there.  For  with  the  speech  of  lips,  and  with 
another  tongue  He  will  speak  to  this  people.’*  It  is 
clear  from  these  words,  that  the  people  made  a  jest  of  the 
prophecies,  and  where  in  the  habit  of  ridiculing  them  by 
saying,  ‘  wait,  wait  again.’  Their  object  was  to  insinuate 
that  the  prophecies  would  never  be  accomplished :  for 
they  understood  them  according  to  the  letter,  which  is 
the  milk  of  babes;  and  in  their  own  sense,  which  is  the 
‘  breasts,’  which  is  in  contradiction  with  the  grandeur  of 
the  science  of  the  Spirit.  The  prophet  therefore  asks, 
Whom  shall  he  teach  the  knowledge  ’  of  his  prophecies, 
and  ‘whom  shall  he  make  to  understand’  what  they 
teach  ?  Is  it  not  they  who  are  ‘  weaned  from  the  milk  ’  of 
the  letter,  and  from  ‘  the  breasts  ’  of  sense  ?  That  nation 
understood  not  the  prophecies,  for  it  followed  after  the 
milk  of  the  letter,  and  the  breasts  of  sense,  saying, 

‘  command,  command  again  ;  wait,  wait  again.’  For 
God  spoke  to  them  the  doctrine  of  His  own  mouth,  and 
not  of  theirs,  and  that  in  another  tongue  than  theirs. 

8.  We  are  therefore  not  to  consider  prophecy  according 
to  our  own  understanding  and  our  own  speech,  knowing 
that  the  words  of  God  have  a  meaning  different  from 
ours,  and  very  difficult  to  ascertain.  So  much  so  that 

*  Is.  xxviii.  9-1 1. 


[CHAP.  XIX.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL.  16i 

Jeremias,  himself  a  prophet  of  God,  seems  to  have  been 
deceived  when  he  saw  the  meaning  of  the  divine  words 
to  be  so  far  removed  from  the  understanding  of  men  ;  for 
he  thus  complains  on  behalf  of  the  people,  saying,  ‘Alas, 
alas,  alas !  O  Lord  God,  hast  Thou  then  deceived  this 
people  and  Jerusalem,  saying,  You  shall  have  peace,  and 
behold  the  sword  reacheth  even  to  the  soul  ?’*  The 
peace  which  God  had  promised  was  peace  between 
Himself  and  man  in  the  Messias,  Whom  He  was  to  send; 
but  the  people  understood  it  of  temporal  peace ;  and  so, 
when  war  and  trouble  came  upon  them,  they  thought 
God  had  deceived  them,  because  they  were  disappointed 
in  their  hopes.  They  then  cried  out  in  the  words  of  the 
prophet,  ‘We  looked  for  peace,  and  no  good  came.’f  It 
was  not  possible  for  them  not  to  be  deceived,  because 
they  relied  on  the  literal,  grammatical  sense. 

9.  Is  it  possible  for  anyone  to  escape  error  and  con¬ 
fusion,  wdio  should  understand  in  the  letter  the  prophecy 
of  the  Psalmist  concerning  Christ,  especially  that  which 
says  of  Him,  ‘  He  shall  rule  from  sea  to  sea,  and  from  the 
river  unto  the  ends  of  the  earth  r’+  And  again,  ‘  He  shall 
deliver  the  poor  from  the  mighty,  and  the  needy  that 
hath  no  helper.’ §  Now  Christ  was  born  in  a  low  estate, 
lived  in  poverty,  and  died  in  misery ;  so  far  was  He  from 
ruling  over  the  earth  while  He  lived  upon  it,  that  He 
subjected  Himself  to  the  lowest  of  the  people  and  died 
under  Pontius  Pilate.  Not  only  did  He  not  deliver 
the  poor,  His  own  disciples,  Irom  the  mighty,  but 
He  suffered  the  mighty  to  persecute  them  for  His 

*  Jer.  iv.  IO.  t  lb.  viii.  15. 

X  Ps.  lxxi.  8.  §  lb.  12. 

X. 


1G2 


1HE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  It. J 


name,  and  to  put  them  to  death.  The  prophecy  concern¬ 
ing  Christ  is  to  be  understood  spiritually,  for  in  that 
sense  it  is  most  true.  He  is  not  only  the  Lord  of  the 
whole  earth,  but  of  heaven  also,  for  He  is  God.  And 
the  poor,  who  are  to  follow  Him,  are  not  only  redeemed 
by  Him  and  delivered  from  the  mighty,  that  is,  out  of  the 
hand  of  satan,  but  also  made  heirs  of  the  kingdom  ol 
heaven.  The  prophecy  referred  to  Christ  and  His 
followers  in  the  highest  sense,  to  His  eternal  kingdom 
and  our  everlasting  salvation  ;  but  men  understood  it  in 
their  own  way,  referring  it  to  that  which  is  of  least  im¬ 
portance,  and  of  which  God  makes  but  little  account,  a 
temporal  dominion,  and  a  temporal  deliverance,  which 
in  the  sight  of  God  is  neither  a  kingdom  nor  freedom. 
The  Jews,  blinded  by  the  letter  of  the  prophecy,  and  not 
understanding  the  true  spiritual  meaning  it  involved, 
put  our  Lord  God  to  death.  ‘  They  that  inhabited  Jeru¬ 
salem,’  saith  the  Apostle,  ‘  and  the  rulers  thereof,  not 
knowing  Him,  nor  the  voices  of  the  prophets,  which  are 
read  every  sabbath,  judging  Him,  have  fulfilled  them.’* 
10.  The  words  of  God  are  indeed  hard  to  be  understood 
as  they  ought  to  be.  His  own  disciples,  who  had  been 
familiar  with  Llim,  were  themselves  deceived.  Two  of 
them  after  His  death  were  journeying  sad  and  despond¬ 
ing  to  Emmaus,  and  saying,  ‘  We  hoped  that  it  was  He 
who  should  have  redeemed  Israel.’ f  They,  too,  under¬ 
stood  this  redemption  and  dominion  in  a  temporal  sense. 
Our  Lord  appeared  to  them,  and  rebuked  them,  saying, 
‘O  foolish,  and  slow  of  heart  to  believe  in  all  things 
which  the  prophets  have  spoken  !’J  Even  on  the  day  of 
*  Acts  xiii.  27.  +  St.  Luke  xxiv.  21.  +  lb  25, 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


163 


[CHAP.  XIX.] 

His  ascension  some  of  them  were  alike  ignorant,  for  they 
asked  Him,  saying,  1  Lord,  wilt  thou  at  this  time  restore 
again  the  kingdom  to  Israel  ?’  * 

11.  Many  things  have  been  spoken  by  the  Holy  Ghost, 
the  meaning  of  which  is  different  from  that  which  men 
conceive.  Such  were  the  words  of  Caiphas  concerning 
Christ:  ‘It  is  expedient  for  you  that  one  man  should  die 
for  the  people,  and  that  the  whole  nation  perish  not. 
And  this  he  spoke  not  of  himself.’  f  The  words  ot 
Caiphas  had  one  meaning  to  himself,  and  another,  a 
very  different  one,  to  the  Holy  Ghost. 

12.  This  shows  us  that  we  cannot  rely  upon  visions  and 
revelations,  even  though  coming  from  God,  because'  it  is 
so  easy  for  us  to  be  deceived  by  understanding  them  in 
our  own  sense.  They  are  an  abyss  and  a  depth  of  the 
Spirit,  and  therefore  to  limit  them  to  our  own  sense  and 
apprehension  of  them,  is  to  grasp  the  air  and  the  motes 
floating  in  it ;  the  air  disperses,  and  our  hand  is  empty. 

13.  The  spiritual  director  must  be  therefore  careful  not 
to  make  his  penitent  narrow-minded  by  attaching  any 
importance  to  these  supernatural  visitations ;  for  they 
are  nothing  else  but  the  motes  of  the  Spirit,  and  he  who 
shall  give  his  attention  to  these  alone  will  in  the  end 
have  no  spirituality  at  all.  Yea,  rather  let  him  wean 
him  from  all  visions  and  locutions,  and  guide  him  into 
the  liberty  and  darkness  of  faith,  where  he  shall  receive 
of  the  abundance  of  the  Spirit,  and  consequently  the 
knowledge  and  understanding  of  the  words  of  God.  It 
is  impossible  for  anyone  who  is  not  spiritually-minded 

to  judge,  even  in  a  moderate  degree,  the  things  of  God; 

*  Acts  i.  6.  t  St,  5c». 


L2 


164 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  ll.j 

and  he  who  judges  them  according  to  sense  is  not  spiri¬ 
tual.  Though  the  things  of  God  are  presented  to  men 
through  the  senses,  they  are  not  to  be  so  understood. 
‘  The  sensual  man,’  saith  the  Apostle,  ‘  perceiveth  not 
the  things  that  are  of  the  Spirit  of  God  ;  for  it  is  foolish¬ 
ness  to  him,  and  he  cannot  understand ;  because  it  is 
spiritually  examined.  But  the  spiritual  man  judgeth  all 
things.’*  By  ‘  sensual  man  ’  is  here  meant  one  who 
understands  the  divine  locutions  in  the  literal  sense  ;  and 
the  ‘  spiritual  man  ’  is  he  who  is  neither  tied  to  it,  nor 
directed  by  it.  It  is  presumption  therefore  to  converse 
with  God  in  this  supernatural  way  and  to  allow  sense  to 
intermeddle  therewith. 

14.  For  the  clearer  understanding  of  this  I  will  give 
some  illustrations  of  it.  Let  us  suppose  a  holy  man  in 
affliction,  persecuted  by  his  enemies,  to  whom  God  shall 
say,  ‘  I  will  deliver  thee  out  of  their  hands.’  This 
promise  may  be  verified,  and  yet  the  enemies  of  the 
Saint  triumph,  and  he  die  by  their  hands.  Should  he 
understand  the  word  of  God  in  a  temporal  sense,  that 
would  be  a  delusion  ;  for  God  may  have  spoken  of  the 
true  deliverance  and  victory,  which  is  salvation,  by 
which  the  soul  is  delivered,  and  by  which  it  conquers 
all  its  enemies  in  a  higher  and  truer  sense  than  that  of 
any  temporal  victory  over  them.  Thus  the  prophecy  is 
much  more  true  and  comprehensive  than  the  under¬ 
standing  of  it  by  anyone  who  should  have  limited  its 
meaning  to  this  life.  For  God,  when  He  speaks,  always 
intends  great  and  profitable  things  ;  but  man  may 
understand  Flim  in  his  own  way,  in  the  lowest  sense, 

*  I  Cor.  ii.  14. 


165 


[CHAP.  XIX.J  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

and  so  fall  into  error.  This  is  exemplified  in  the 
prophecy  of  David  concerning-  Christ :  ‘  Thou  shalt 
rule  them  with  a  rod  of  iron,  and  shalt  break  them 
in  pieces  like  a  potter’s  vessel.’*  Here  God  speaks  of 
that  supreme  and  perfect  dominion,  which  is  eternal 
and  now  accomplished ;  not  of  a  dominion  which  is 
less  perfect,  which  is  temporal,  and  which  was  not 
fulfilled  in  the  earthly  life  of  Christ. 

15.  Again  :  let  us  suppose  a  man  longing  for  martyr¬ 
dom,  to  whom  God  shall  say,  ‘  Thou  shalt  be  a  martyr.’ 
Upon  this  such  an  one  feels  great  interior  consolation, 
and  hopes  of  being  a  martyr.  Still  he  does  not  die  a 
martyr’s  death,  and  yet  the  promise  is  fulfilled.  But 
why  is  the  promise  not  literally  performed  ?  Because 
God  keeps  it  in  the  highest  and  substantial  sense, 
bestowing  on  that  soul  the  essential  love  and  reward 
of  a  martyr,  making  it  a  martyr  of  love,  granting  to  it  a 
prolonged  martyrdom  of  suffering,  the  continuance  of 
which  is  more  painful  than  death.  Thus  He  bestows 
really  on  that  soul  what  that  soul  desired,  and  He  had 
promised.  For  the  substance  of  that  desire  was,  not  any 
particular  kind  of  death,  but  rather  the  oblation  to  God 
of  the  obedience  of  a  martyr,  and  a  martyr’s  act  of  love. 
Martyrdom  itself  is  nothing  worth  without  the  friendship 
of  God,  Who  by  other  means  gives  the  love,  obedience, 
and  reward  of  a  martyr  perfectly ;  and  the  soul  is 
satisfied  as  to  its  desires,  though  the  death  of  a  martyr  is 
withheld  from  it. 

16.  These  desires,  and  others  like  them,  when  they 
spring  from  true  love,  though  not  fulfilled  as  men  under- 

*  Ps.  ii.  g. 


THE  ASCENT 


166 


[BOOIC  II.] 


stand  them,  are  nevertheless  fulfilled  in  another  and  bet¬ 
ter  way,  and  more  for  the  honour  of  God  than  men  know 
how  to  ask.  ‘  The  Lord  hath  heard  the  desire  of  the 
poor;’*  and  ‘to  the  just  their  desire  shall  be  given.’t 
Many  saints  have  desired  many  things  for  God  in  this 
life,  and  their  desires  have  not  been  granted ;  but  it  is 
certain  that,  as  their  desires  were  just  and  good,  they 
will  be  perfectly  fulfilled  in  the  world  to  come.  And  as 
this  is  true,  so  also  is  it  true,  that  God  in  this  life 
performs  His  promise  of  granting  their  desires,  though 
not  in  the  way  they  thought. 

17.  In  this  and  in  many  other  ways  the  words  and 
visions  of  God  are  true  and  certain,  and  yet  we  may  be 
deceived  because  we  do  not  rise  to  the  heights  of  God’s 
purpose  and  meaning.  Thus,  the  safest  course,  which 
directors  can  take,  is  to  lead  souls  into  a  prudent  avoid¬ 
ance  of  these  supernatural  visitations,  accustoming  them 
to  pureness  of  spirit  in  the  obscurity  of  faith,  which  is 
the  means  of  the  divine  union. 


CHAPTER  XX. 

Proofs  from  Scripture  that  the  divine  locutions,  though  always 
true,  are  not  always  certain  in  their  causes. 

It  is  necessary  for  me  now  to  show  the  second  reason 
why  divine  visions  and  locutions,  though  always 
true  in  themselves,  are  not  always  so  with  regard  to  us. 
This  depends  on  the  motive  on  which  they  are  founded ; 
and  it  is  to  be  understood  that  they  are  always  true, 

*  lb.  ix.  17.  t  Prov.  X.  24. 


[chap.  XX.] 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


107 


while  the  cause  remains,  which  determines  God — so  to 
speak — to  inflict  chastisement.  God  perhaps  says, 

‘  Within  a  year  such  a  kingdom  shall  be  visited  with 
pestilence.’  The  ground  of  this  denunciation  is  a  certain  • 
offence  against  God  committed  in  that  kingdom.  Now 
if  that  offence  ceases  or  is  changed,  the  punishment  will 
not  be  inflicted,  or  it  will  come  in  another  form.  The 
denunciation  was  true,  because  grounded  upon  actual 
sin,  and  would  have  been  verified  if  the  sin  had  been 
persisted  in.  This  is  a  threatening  or  conditional 
revelation. 

2.  We  have  an  instance  of  this  in  the  story  of  Ninive. 
God  sent  Jonas  to  it  to  prophesy  its  ruin:  ‘Yet  forty 
days  and  Ninive  shall  be  destroyed.’*  The  prophecy 
was  not  fulfilled,  because  the  reason  of  it  had  ceased. 
The  people  did  penance  for  their  sins ;  but  if  they  had 
not  done  so,  the  prophecy  would  have  been  accom¬ 
plished.  King  Achab,  as  we  read  in  the  third  book  of 
the  Kings,  committed  a  great  sin,  and  God  sent  our 
father  Elias  to  threaten  him  and  his  house  and  his 
kingdom  with  a  most  grievous  chastisement.  But  when 
Achab  rent  his  garments,  and  put  haircloth  on  his  flesh, 
and  fasted  and  slept  in  sackcloth,  and  walked  with  his 
head  cast  down,’  and  was  humbled,  God  said  to  the 
same  prophet,  ‘Because  he  hath  humbled  himself  for 
My  sake,  I  will  not  bring  the  evil  in  his  days ;  but  in 
his  son’s  days  will  I  bring  the  evil  upon  his  house.’  f  Thus 
we  see  that,  because  of  the  change  in  Achab,  there  was 
a  change  also  of  the  threatening  and  sentence  of  God. 

3-  It  follows,  then,  f^om  this  that  God,  having  one? 

*  fon.  iii.  4.  t  3  Kings  W.  27-2^. 


!68 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.] 

revealed  distinctly  to  anyone,  that  he  was  about  to  bless 
or  punish  either  that  person  or  any  other,  may  still 
change  His  purpose  more  or  less,  or  cease  from  it  alto¬ 
gether,  according  to  the  change  in  the  disposition  of 
those  to  whom  the  revelation  referred,  or  the  cessation 
of  the  cause  in  view  of  which  the  revelation  was  made. 
And  this  being  so,  the  word  that  He  spoke  will  not  be 
fulfilled  according  to  the  expectation  of  those  to  whom 
it  was  known,  and  that  very  often  without  its  being 
known  why,  save  to  God  only.  God  is  wont  to  speak, 
teach  and  promise,  many  things  at  different  times,  not 
to  be  understood,  or  accomplished  then ;  but  that  they 
may  be  understood  afterwards,  when  the  time  is  come, 
or  when  they  are  effectually  fulfilled.  It  was  in  this  way 
our  Lord  conversed  with  His  disciples.  He  spoke  to 
them  in  parables  and  dark  sayings,  the  meaning  of 
which  they  perceived  not  till  the  time  came  when  they 
were  to  preach  them  to  others.  This  time  arrived  when 
the  Holy  Ghost  defended  upon  them,  of  Whom  our 
Saviour  had  said :  ‘  He  will  teach  you  all  things,  and 
bring  all  things  to  your  mind,  whatsoever  I  shall  have 
said  to  you.’*  St.  John,  speaking  of  our  Lord’s  entry 
into  Jerusalem,  says:  ‘These  things  His  disciples  did 
not  know  at  the  first;  but  when  Jesus  was  glorified,  then 
they  remembered  that  these  things  were  written  of 
Him.  f  Thus,  then,  many  divine  communications,  most 
distinctly  made,  may  be  received  by  us  without  being 
understood  before  the  proper  time,  either  by  ourselves  or 
by  our  spiritual  directors. 

4.  God  was  angry  with  ILeli,  the  high  priest  of  Israel 

*  St-  John  xiv.  ?<?,  f  lb.  xii.  i£f 


[CHAP.  XX.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL.  169 

because  he  knew  that  his  ‘  sons  did  wickedly,  and  he 
did  not  chastise  them.’  *  He  sent  a  prophet  to  him  to 
admonish  him.  ‘I  said  indeed  that  thy  house  and  the 
house  of  thy  father  should  minister  in  My  sight  for  ever. 
But  now  saith  the  Lord,  Far  be  this  from  Me  :  but  who¬ 
soever  shall  glorify  Me,  him  I  will  glorify :  but  they  that 
despise  Me  shall  be  despised.’  f  Now  the  priesthood  was 
instituted  for  the  honour  and  glory  of  God,  and  for  that 
end  it  had  been  promised  by  God  for  ever  to  the  father 
of  Heli  on  the  due  fulfilment  of  his  functions.  But  when 
Heli  ceased  to  be  zealous  for  God’s  honour — as  God 
Himself  complains — preferring  his  children  above  Him, 
conniving  at  their  sins  that  he  might  not  be  compelled 
to  punish  them — the  promise  also  ceased  to  be  observed; 
though  it  would  have  abided  for  ever,  had  they  to  whom 
it  belonged  persevered  zealously  in  the  true  service  of 
God.  We  are,  therefore,  not  to  imagine  that  the  words 
or  revelations  of  God,  though  most  true,  will  be  infallibly 
verified  in  their  obvious  meaning ;  for  they  are,  by  the 
disposition  of  God  Himself,  bound  up  with  human 
causes,  which  are  liable  to  fluctuation  and  change.  All 
this  is  known  unto  God,  but  He  declares  it  not.  He 
sends  forth  His  word,  and  at  times  makes  no  mention 
of  the  condition ;  as  in  the  case  of  Ninive,  when  He 
declared  distinctly  that  after  forty  days  the  city  would 
be  destroyed.  At  other  times  He  declares  the  condition, 
as  in  the  case  of  Jeroboam,  saying,  'If  then  thou  .  .  . 
wilt  walk  in  My  ways  .  .  .  keeping  My  commandments 
and  My  precepts,  as  David  My  servant  did  ;  I  will  be 


*  I  Kings  iii.  I* 


t  D-  ii-  30. 


TIIE  ASCENT 


L70 


[book  ii.J 


with  thee  and  will  build  thee  up  a  faithful  house  as  I 
built  up  a  house  for  David.’  * 

5.  But  after  all,  whether  God  declares  the  conditions  or 
not,  we  must  not  trust  to  our  understanding  of  His  words; 
for  we  cannot  comprehend  the  hidden  truths  of  God,  and 
the  manifold  meaning  of  His  words.  He  is  high  above 
the  heavens,  speaking  in  the  ways  of  eternity;  we  are 
blind  upon  earth,  and  cannot  penetrate  His  secrets. 
This  is  the  meaning  of  Solomon  when  he  said  :  ‘  God  is 
in  heaven,  and  thou  upon  earth ;  therefore  let  thy  words 
be  few.’  f 

6.  Here,  perhaps,  an  objection  maybe  made:  If  then 
we  cannot  understand  the  revelations  of  God,  nor 
enter  into  their  meaning,  why  does  He  send  them  ? 
I  have  already  met  this  difficulty.  Everything  will 
be  understood  in  the  time  appointed  by  Him  who 
hath  spoken,  and  he  whom  He  hath  determined  before¬ 
hand  shall  understand  :  and  then  all  will  see  that  it  was 
right  and  fitting  it  should  be  so :  for  God  doeth  nothing 
but  in  truth  and  equity.  It  is,  therefore,  most  certain 
that  we  cannot  perfectly  understand  nor  grasp  the  full 
meaning  of  His  words,  nor  determine  the  sense  of  them 
to  be  what  it  seems  to  be,  without  falling  into  shameful 
delusions.  This  truth  was  well  known  to  the  prophets 
to  whom  the  word  of  the  Lord  was  sent.  To  prophesy 
to  the  people  was  to  them  a  grievous  affliction ;  for,  as  I 
have  said,  much  of  what  they  said  was  not  fulfilled  in  the 
letter,  and  this  proved  an  excuse  to  the  multitude  to 
ridicule  and  mock  the  prophets.  £I  am,’  saith  the 
prophet,  ‘  made  a  derision  all  the  day,  all  do  scorn  me ; 

*  3  Kings  xi.  38.  f  Eccles.  v.  is 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


171 


[CHAP.  XX.] 

because  now  long  ago  I  speak  crying  out  iniquity,  and  I 
often  proclaim  wasting ;  and  the  word  of  the  Lord  is 
made  a  reproach  to  me,  and  a  derision  all  the  day.  And 
I  said :  I  will  not  remember  Him,  nor  speak  any  more  in 
His  name.’* 

7 .  Here  the  holy  prophet,  though  he  speaks  with  resig¬ 
nation  and  like  a  frail  man,  unable  to  endure  the  ways 
and  secrets  of  God,  teaches  us  clearly  the  difference 
between  the  true  fulfilment  and  the  apparent  meaning 
of  the  word  of  God.  The  people  treated  the  heavenly 
messengers  as  deceivers,  whose  afflictions,  on  account 
of  their  prophecies,  were  so  great  that  Jeremias  cried  out: 
‘  Prophecy  is  made  unto  us  fear,  and  snare  and  destruc¬ 
tion.’  f  Jonas  fled  when  God  sent  him  to  preach  the 
destruction  of  Ninive,  because  he  did  not  perceive  the 
truth,  nor  wholly  comprehend  the  meaning,  of  the  words 
of  God.  He  fled,  that  he  might  not  become  an  object 
of  derision  to  the  people  when  they  saw  the  prophecy 
not  fulfilled.  He  further  stayed  outside  the  city  for 
forty  days  waiting  for  the  accomplishment  of  his  pro¬ 
phecy,  and  when  he  saw  that  it  remained  unfulfilled, 
he  was  greatly  affected,  and  complained,  saying :  ‘  I 
beseech  Thee,  O  Lord,  is  not  this  what  I  said,  when 
I  was  yet  in  my  own  country  ?  Therefore,  I  went  before 
to  flee  unto  Tharsis.’+  In  his  vexation,  therefore,  he 
prayed  God  to  take  his  life  from  him. 

8.  Is  it,  then,  surprising  that  the  revelations  are  not 
fulfilled  in  oux  sense  ?  For  if  God  makes  known  to 
anyone  good  or  evil,  relating  to  him  or  to  others,  and  if 
the  revelation  thereof  be  founded  on  the  obedience  or 

*  Jerem.  xx.  7-9.  +  Lam  iii.  47.  t  Jon.  iv. 


172 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II. J 

disobedience  of  that  person  or  the  others,  and  if  the 
facts  continue  the  same,  no  doubt  the  prophecy  will  be 
fulfilled.  But  it  is  not,  however,  certain  that  it  will  be 
fulfilled  in  the  letter,  because  the  reasons  of  it  may 
change.  And  therefore  we  must  not  trust  to  our  own 
understanding  of  these  revelations,  but  to  faith. 


CHAPTER  XXI. 

God  is  at  times  displeased  with  certain  prayers,  though  He 
answers  them.  Illustrations  of  His  anger  with  such  prayers. 

Some  spiritual  persons,  as  I  have  said,*  persuade,  them¬ 
selves — not  reflecting  on  the  great  curiosity  which  they 
often  display  when  they  seek  knowledge  from  God  in 
supernatural  ways — because  their  prayers  are  sometimes 
answered,  that  their  conduct  in  the  matter  is  good  and 
pleasing  unto  God.  Nevertheless  the  truth  is,  notwith¬ 
standing  the  answers  they  receive,  that  God  is  offended, 
and  not  pleased.  And  more  than  this,  they  provoke 
Him  to  anger,  and  displease  Him  greatly.  The  reason 
is  this — no  creature  may  transgress  the  limits  which 
God  hath  appointed  in  the  order  of  its  being  for  its 
rule  and  guidance.  He  has  ordained  for  man’s 
governance  certain  natural  and  reasonable  laws,  the 
transgression  of  which  is  therefore  not  right :  now,  to 

S 

seek  anything  by  supernatural  ways  is  to  transgress 
these  laws,  and  therefore  an  unholy  and  unbecoming 
thing,  and  displeasing  unto  God. 

2.  You  will  object,  and  say,  Why  then  does  God,  if  He 

is  displeased,  answer  such  prayers  at  all  ?  I  reply,  the 

*  Ch.  xviii.,  Sufr. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


175 


[CHAR.  XXI.] 

answer  occasionally  comes  from  the  devil.  But  when 
God  answers,  it  is  out  of  condescension  to  the  human 
weakness  of  him  who  will  walk  in  that  way,  that  he  may 
not  become  disconsolate,  and  go  back ;  or  that  he  may 
not  think  that  God  is  angry  with  him,  or  that  he  may 
not  be  tempted  overmuch  :  or  it  may  be  for  other  ends 
known  to  God,  founded  on  his  weakness,  in  consideration 
of  which  God  is  pleased  to  answer  him,  and  condescend 
to  him  in  that  way.  He  deals  in  the  same  way  with 
many  weak  and  delicate  souls,  giving  them  a  sensible 
sweetness  in  their  converse  with  Himself,  not  because 
He  delights  in  this,  or  because  this  way  is  according  to 
His  will ;  but  because  He  deals  with  everyone  according 
to  his  capacity. 

3.  God  is  as  a  well  from  which  everyone  may  draw 
water  according  to  the  measure  of  his  vessel,  and  He 
sometimes  permits  us  to  draw  it  through  extraordinary 
channels,  but  it  is  not  therefore  necessarily  right  to 
make  use  of  them.  It  belongs  to  God  alone  to  determine 
this,  Who  gives  how,  when,  to  whom,  and  why  He  wills, 
without  respect  of  persons.  He  sometimes  inclines  His 
ear  to  the  prayer  of  those  who  cry  to  Him,  and  because 
of  their  goodness  and  simplicity  succours  them,  that 
they  may  not  be  made  sad,  and  not  because  He  is 
pleased  with  their  prayer.  The  following  illustration 
will  make  this  more  clear.  A  father  covers  his  table 
with  divers  meats,  some  better  than  others.  One  of  his 
children  asks  for  one  kind,  not  the  best,  but  the  first  that 
presents  itself  to  him  :  he  asks  for  it  because  he  likes  it 
better  than  any  other.  His  father  seeing  that  he  will 
not  take  of  the  best,  even  if  he  offered  it,  and  that  he 


174 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK.  II.] 

would  not  have  any  satisfaction  in  it,  gives  him  that  he 
asked  for.  He  gives  it  to  him  that  he  might  not  be  left 
without  food  and  disconsolate,  but  he  gives  it  sorrow¬ 
fully.  Such  was  God’s  dealing  with  the  people  of  Israel 
when  they  demanded  a  king.  He  gave  them  a  king 
unwillingly,  for  that  was  not  for  their  good.  1  Hearken 
to  the  voice  of  the  people,’  saith  He  to  Samuel :  ‘  they 
have  not  rejected  thee  but  Me,  that  I  should  not  reign 
over  them.’*  He  condescends  in  the  same  way  to  certain 
souls,  giving  them  that  which  is  not  for  their  greater 
good,  either  because  they  will  not,  or  because  they 
cannot,  walk  with  Him  in  the  better  way.  And  if  at 
times  these  souls  have  a  tenderness  and  sweetness, 
spiritual  or  sensible,  He  gives  it  them  because  they  are 
not  disposed  to  feed  on  the  strong  and  substantial  meat, 
the  sufferings  of  the  cross  of  His  Son.  It  is  His  will  that 
we  should  cleave  thereto  rather  than  to  aught  else.  It 
is,  in  my  opinion,  much  worse  to  seek  for  the  knowledge 
of  events  through  supernatural  ways,  than  to  seek 
spiritual  sweetness  in  those  of  sense. 

4.  I  do  not  see  how  I  can  excuse  from  sin,  at  least 
venial,  those  persons  who  do  this,  however  good  their  in¬ 
tentions  and  great  their  progress  in  perfection.  I  say  the 
same  of  those  who  bid  them  persevere  in  this  way,  or 
who  consent  to  it.  There  is  no  necessity  for  their  acting 
thus,  because  natural  reason,  the  law  and  teaching  of  the 
Gospel  are  sufficient  for  our  guidance,  and  there  are 
neither  wants  nor  difficulties  which  cannot  be  supplied  or 
remedied  by  them,  and  that  more  in  accordance  with  the 
will  of  God,  and  more  to  the  profit  of  souls.  Such  is  our 

*  I  Kings  viii.  7. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


1 75 


[chap  XXI. j 

obligation  to  make  use  of  our  reason  and  of  the  teaching 
of  the  gospel,  that,  whether  with  or  without  our  concur¬ 
rence,  if  anything  be  revealed  to  us  supernaturally,  we 
may  receive  that  only  which  is  consistent  with  reason  and 
the  evangelical  law.  And  we  are  bound  to  examine  such 
things  much  more  carefully  than  we  should  do,  if  no 
revelation  had  been  made ;  for  the  devil,  in  order  to 
deceive  us,  utters  many  things  which  are  true  and  in  con¬ 
formity  with  reason. 

5.  1  here  is  no  better  or  safer  remedy  for  all  our  necessi¬ 
ties  and  troubles  than  prayer  and  hope,  by  which  God  is 
moved  to  provide  for  us  by  such  means  as  are  pleasing 
unto  Him.  This  is  the  counsel  which  the  Holy  Scrip¬ 
tures  furnish  us.  When  Iving  Josaphat  was  in  deepest 
affliction,  hemmed  in  by  his  enemies  on  every  side,  he 
betook  himself  to  prayer,  and  said,  ‘As  we  know  not 
what  to  do,  we  can  only  turn  our  eyes  to  Thee/*  When 
everything  fails  us,  when  reason  is  powerless  to  suggest 
relief,  we  can  then  lift  up  our  eyes  to  Thee  only, 
that  Ihou  mayest  provide  for  us,  as  it  shall  seem  best 
to  Thee. 

6.  God  too,  though  He  sends  answers  to  prayers  thus 
offered,  is  angry.  But,  notwithstanding  the  certainty  of 
this,  I  think  it  will  be  well  to  show  it  from  certain 
passages  of  Holy  Writ.  When  Saul  desired  to  consult 
the  prophet  Samuel,  then  dead,  the  prophet  came  at  his 
request ;  God,  however,  was  angry  with  Saul,  for  the 
prophet  rebuked  him,  saying,  ‘  Why  hast  thou  disturbed 
my  rest,  that  I  should  be  brought  up  ?’+  We  know,  too, 
that  God  was  angry,  with  the  people  of  Israel  when  they 

*  2  Paral.  xx.  12.  t  I  Kings  xxviii.  15. 


176  THE  ASCENT  ( BOOK  II.  j 

asked  Him  for  meat.  He  gave  them  meat,  but  He  also 
sent  fire  from  Heaven  to  chastise  them  :  ‘  As  yet  the 
meat  was  in  their  mouth,  and  the  wrath  of  God  came 
upon  them.’*  He  was  angry  also  with  Balaam,  when,  at 
the  bidding  of  Balac,  he  went  to  the  Madianites,  though 
God  had  said,  ‘  Arise  and  go.’  Balaam  was  bent  on 
going,  and  had  asked  permission  of  God ;  but  an  angel 
stood  before  him  in  the  way  with  a  drawn  sword  in  his 
hand,  and  sought  to  kill  him,  and  said,  ‘  Thy  way  is  per¬ 
verse  and  contrary  to  Me.’t  In  this,  and  in  many  other 
ways,  God  condescends,  but  in  anger,  to  our  desires.  And 
the  Holy  Writings  furnish  us  many  other  instances  of  this 
truth,  but  on  which  we  have  no  need  to  enlarge  in  a 
matter  so  plain. 

7.  I  have  only  to  add  that  it  is  a  most  perilous  thing, 
and  much  more  so  than  I  can  tell,  to  converse  with  God 
by  these  supernatural  ways,  and  that  whosoever  is  thus 
disposed  cannot  but  fall  into  many  shameful  delusions. 
He  who  shall  apply  himself  to  these  ways  will  learn  by 
experience  the  truth  of  the  matter.  For  over  and  above 
the  difficulty  of  not  being  deceived  by  the  divine  visions 
and  locutions,  there  is  usually  the  further  danger  of  the 
devil  thrusting  himself  in  among  them.  Satan,  in  general, 
comes  to  the  soul  in  the  ways  and  methods  of  God,  sug¬ 
gesting  to  it  communications  so  much  resembling  those 
of  God,  insinuating  himself  as  a  wolf  in  sheep’s  clothing 
among  the  flock,  so  that  he  can  scarcely  be  detected. 
For  as  the  evil  spirit  announces  many  things  that  are 
true,  conformable  with  reason,  and  certain,  men  may  be 
most  easily  deluded,  thinking  that,  as  the  prophecy 

*  Num,  xi.  4,  33  ;  Ps.  lxxvii.  30,  31.  +  Num.  xxii.  20  12. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


177 


[CHAP.  XXI.] 

corresponded  with  the  event,  it  could  be  none  other  than 
God  Who  had  spoken.  They  do  not  reflect  how  very 
easy  it  is  for  one,  endowed  with  clear  natural  light,  to 
understand  in  their  causes  many  matters,  which  have 
been  or  may  be  done.  Such  an  one  will  accurately  guess 
at  many  things  to  come.  And  as  the  devil  is  endowed 
with  so  clear  a  light,  he  is  able  to  infer  such  results  from 
such  causes ;  though  they  are  not  always  such  as  he 
describes  them,  because  all  things  depend  on  the  will  of 
God. 

8.  Let  us  make  this  clear  by  an  illustration  :  The  devil 
knows  that  the  condition  of  the  earth  and  the  atmos¬ 
phere,  and  the  position  of  the  sun  are  such,  that  at  a 
given  time,  the  combination  of  the  elements  must,  of 
necessity,  occasion  a  pestilence.  Lie  will  also  know 
where  the  pestilence  will  be  most  violent  and  where  least 
so.  He  perceives  the  pestilence  in  its  causes.  Is  it  a 
great  matter  for  the  devil,  in  this  case,  to  reveal  to  a 
particular  person  that  within  a  year  or  six  months  a 
plague  will  come,  which  does  come  ?  Yet  the  prediction 
is  diabolic.  He  may  also  foretell  earthquakes  in  the 
same  way.  When  he  sees  the  caverns  of  the  earth  filled 
with  air,  he  may  say  an  earthquake  will  come  at  such  a 
time.  This  knowledge  is  natural.  Extraordinary  events 
in  the  providence  of  God  may  also  be  detected  in  their 
sources.  Seeing  that  He  is  most  just  in  His  dealings  with 
men,  we  may  be  able  to  see,  in  the  ordinary  way,  that  a 
given  individual,  city,  or  place  is  come  to  such  a  state  or 
difficulty  that  God,  in  His  providence  and  justice,  must 
deal  therewith  as  the  cause  demands :  either  in  the  way 
of  punishment  or  of  reward,  according  to  the  nature  of 


M 


178 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II  ] 

the  case.  Under  these  circumstances,  we  may  say,  at 
such  a  time,  God  will  visit,  or  such  things  will  happen, 
most  certainly.  We  have  an  instance  of  this  in  holy 
Judith,  who,  when  she  would  persuade  Holofernes  that 
the  people  of  Israel  must  certainly  perish,  told  him  of 
their  many  sins  and  the  calamities  they  suffered,  and 
added,  ‘  therefore  because  they  do  these  things,  it  is 
certain  they  will  be  given  to  destruction.’* 

9.  Here  Judith  saw  the  punishment  in  its  cause.  It  is 
as  if  she  had  said,  it  is  certain  that  such  sins  will  draw 
down  the  chastisements  of  God,  Who  is  most  just.  The 
same  principle  is  taught  in  the  book  of  Wisdom  where 
it  is  written,  ‘  By  what  things  a  man  sinneth,  by  the 
same  also  he  is  tormented.’  f  The  devil  may  perceive 
this  not  only  naturally,  but  also  by  his  experience  of  the 
like  dealings  of  God.  He  may  also  announce  it  certainly 
beforehand. 

10.  Holy  Tobias  also  knew  in  its  causes  the  chastise¬ 
ment  about  to  fall  upon  Ninive,  for  he  warned  his  son 
thereof,  saying,  ‘Now,  children,  hear  me,  and  do  not  stay 
here ;  but  as  soon  as  you  shall  bury  your  mother  by  me  in 
one  sepulchre,  without  delay  direct  your  steps  to  depart 
hence.  For  I  see  that  its  iniquity  will  bring  it  to  destruc¬ 
tion.’ +  It  is  as  if  he  had  said,  I  see  clearly  that  its 
iniquity  must  bring  on  punishment,  and  that  its  punish¬ 
ment  will  be  its  utter  ruin.  This  might  have  been  fore¬ 
seen  by  the  devil  and  Tobias,  not  only  because  of  the 
evil  deeds  of  Ninive,  but  also  from  their  experience  of 
the  past,  knowing  that  God  had  destroyed  the  old  world, 
on  account  of  the  sins  of  men,  by  the  deluge,  and  the 

*  Juditb  xi.  12.  t  Wisd.  xi  17.  I  Tob.  xiv.  12,  13. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


179 


[CHAP.  XXI.] 

people  of  Sodom  by  fire.  But  Tobias  knew  also  the  ruin 
of  Ninive  by  the  Holy  Ghost. 

11.  The  evil  spirit  may  know  that  a  given  individual 
will  die  within  a  certain  time  in  the  course  of  nature,  and 
may  announce  the  fact  beforehand.  He  may  also  know 
many  other  events  in  divers  ways,  which  I  am  unable  to 
describe,  because  they  are  exceedingly  intricate  and 
subtle.  There  is  no  escape  here,  therefore,  but  in  fleeing 
revelations,  visions,  and  locutions,  because  God  is  most 
justly  offended  with  him  who  seeks  them.  He  sees  that  it 
is  rashness  to  expose  oneself  to  so  great  a  risk,  and  that  to 
seek  these  things  is  presumption,  curiosity,  the  fruit  of 
pride,  the  source  and  root  of  vain-glory,  contempt  of  the 
things  of  God,  and  many  other  evils  into  which  so  many 
have  fallen.  Such  persons  have  so  offended  God  that 
He  has  deliberately  abandoned  them  to  errors  and 
delusions  and  mental  blindness  ;  and  has  suffered  them 
to  go  astray  from  the  ordinary  course  of  a  well-regulated 
life,  giving  way  to  vanity  and  imaginations,  as  the 
prophet  saith  :  ‘The  Lord  hath  mingled  in  the  midst 
thereof  the  spirit  of  giddiness,’  *  that  is,  in  common 
speech,  the  spirit  of  understanding  things  the  wrong 
way.  The  words  of  the  prophet  are  to  the  point,  for  he 
is  speaking  of  those  who  attempted  to  know  future  events 
by  supernatural  ways.  He  says,  therefore,  that  God  had 
mingled  in  the  midst  of  them  the  spirit  of  understanding 
things  the  wrong  way ;  not  that  God  willed  or  sent,  in 
fact,  this  spirit  of  delusion,  but  that  they  thrust  them¬ 
selves  into  those  things,  the  knowledge  of  which  is 
naturally  a  secret.  God,  therefore,  in  His  anger,  allowed 

U2 


Is.  xix.  14- 


180 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.] 

them  to  utter  foolish  things,  giving  them  no  light  where 
it  was  not  His  will  they  should  enter.  It  is  therefore  said 
that  He  mingled,  permissively,  the  spirit  of  giddiness  in 
the  midst  of  them. 

12.  This  is  the  way  in  which  God  is  the  cause  of  this 
evil,  namely,  as  the  privative  cause,  which  is  the  with¬ 
drawal  of  His  light  and  grace,  the  result  of  which  is  in¬ 
evitable  error.  It  is  in  this  way,  too,  that  He  permits  the 
devil  to  blind  and  deceive  many,  whose  sins  and  whose 
frowardness  deserve  it.  The  devil  is  then  able  to 
deceive  them,  and  does  deceive  them ;  men  believing 
and  accounting  him  a  good  spirit,  and  this  to  such  a 
degree,  that,  though  convinced  that  they  are  under  the 
influence  of  the  evil  one,  they  cannot  get  rid  of  their 
delusions ;  because,  by  the  permission  of  God,  the  spirit 
of  contradiction  is  so  strong  within  them.  This  was  the 
case  with  the  prophets  of  Achab,  who,  by  the  permission 
of  God,  was  deceived  by  them ;  for  He  had  allowed  the 
evil  spirit  to  do  so,  saying,  ‘  Thou  shalt  deceive  him  and 
shalt  prevail ;  go  forth  and  do  so.’  *  So  strong  was  the 
delusion  of  the  king  and  the  prophets,  that  they  refused 
to  believe  Micheas,  who  prophesied  truly  in  opposition 
to  the  lying  words  of  those  prophets.  They  were  all 
deceived,  God  having  permitted  their  blindness  because 
they  were  bent  on  what  they  liked  themselves,  desiring 
that  the  event  and  the  answer  of  God  should  correspond 
with  their  own  wishes  and  desires.  This  disposition  of 
mind  is  the  most  certain  road  towards  being  abandoned 
of  God  to  error  and  delusions.  Ezechiel  in  the  name  of 
God  prophesies  to  the  same  effect ;  for  speaking  against 

*  3  Kings  xxii  22. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


181 


[CHAP.  XXI.] 

such  as  seek  knowledge,  in  the  way  of  God,  out  of  vanity 
of  mind  and  curiosity,  he  says :  ‘  If  he  .  .  .  come  to  the 
prophet  to  enquire  of  Me  by  him,  I  the  Lord  will  answer 
him  by  Myself,  and  I  will  set  my  face  against  that  man. 
•  .  .  And  when  the  prophet  shall  err  ...  I  the  Lord 
have  deceived  him.’*  We  are  to  understand  this  of  the 
non-concurrence  of  God’s  grace,  so  that  delusion  follows. 
God  says,  ‘  I  will  answer  him  by  Myself,’  in  My  anger, 
that  is,  I  withdraw  My  grace  and  protection  ;  then  man 
falls  infallibly  into  delusions,  because  God  has  abandoned 
him.  Then,  too,  the  devil  comes  forward  and  makes 
answer  according  to  that  man’s  wishes  and  desires,  who, 
taking  pleasure  therein — the  answers  and  suggestions  of 
the  evil  one  being  in  unison  with  his  will — falls  into 
many  delusions. 

13.  I  seem  to  have  strayed  in  some  measure  from  the 
subject,  as  I  described  it  in  the  beginning  of  this  chapter. 
I  undertook  to  show  that  God  was  offended,  even  though 
He  answered  our  prayers.  Yet,  if  what  I  have  said  be 
carefully  considered,  it  will  be  found  to  prove  what  I 
intended  :  it  being  clear  throughout,  that  God  is  not 
pleased  that  men  should  seek  after  such  visions,  because 
they  are  in  so  many  ways  occasions  of  delusions. 


*  Ezech.  xiv.  7.  8,  <) 


182 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.] 


CHAPTER  XXII. 

It  is  not  lawful,  under  the  new  law,  as  it  was  under  the  old,  to 
enquire  of  God  by  supernatural  ways.  This  doctrine  profit¬ 
able  for  the  understanding  of  the  mysteries  of  our  holy  faith. 
Proofs  from  St.  Paul. 

Doubts  spring  up  before  us,  and  hinder  us  from  advancing 
as  rapidly  as  I  wish.  For  as  they  rise,  it  is  necessary  to 
remove  them,  that  the  truth  of  this  doctrine  may  remain 
clear  and  in  its  full  force.  These  doubts  bring  with  them 
this  advantage,  that,  notwithstanding  the  delays  they 
occasion,  they  subserve  my  teaching,  and  make  my 
purpose  clear.  Such  is  the  present  doubt. 

2.  I  said  in  the  former  chapter,  it  is  not  the  will  of  God 
that  men  should  seek  for  clear  knowledge  in  visions  and 
locutions  by  supernatural  ways.  On  the  other  hand,  we 
know  that  this  method  was  practised  under  the  old  law, 
and  that  it  was  then  lawful ;  further  still,  that  it  was  not 
only  lawful  but  commanded,  and  that  God  rebuked  men 
for  not  having  recourse  to  it.  He  rebuked  the  children 
of  Israel,  because  they  had  resolved  to  go  down  into 
Egypt  before  enquiring  of  Him,  saying  to  them,  ‘Woe 
to  you  .  .  .  who  walk  to  go  down  into  Egypt,  and  have 
not  asked  at  my  mouth.’  *  When  the  people  of  Israel 
were  deceived  by  the  Gabaonites,  the  Holy  Ghost 
rebuked  them  for  a  like  fault,  for  it  is  written  that  ‘  they 
took  of  their  victuals  and  consulted  not  the  mouth  of  the 
Ford.’  f  In  the  Holy  Writings  we  see  that  God  was 
consulted  continually  by  Moses,  by  David,  by  all  the 
kings  of  Israel  in  their  wars  and  necessities,  by  the 

*  Is.  XXX.  i,  a.  +  Jos.  ix.  14. 


[CHAP.  XXII.] 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


183 


priests  and  prophets  of  old,  and  that  He  answered  them, 
and  was  not  provoked  to  anger,  and  that  in  this  all  was 
well  done.  Yea,  moreover,  if  they  had  not  consulted 
Him,  they  would  have  done  amiss  :  which  is  true.  Why 
then,  may  we  not,  under  the  new  law  and  in  the  state  of 
grace,  do  what  was  done  under  the  old  ? 

3.  To  this  I  reply,  the  chief  reason  why  the  prayers  in 
question  were  lawful  under  the  old  dispensation,  and  why 
it  was  necessary  for  prophets  and  priests  to  seek  visions 
and  revelations  from  God  was,  that  the  faith  was  not 
then  revealed,  that  the  evangelical  law  was  not  estab¬ 
lished  ;  and  therefore  that  it  was  necessary  for  men  to 
enquire  of  God  in  this  way,  and  that  He  should  answer 
them  at  one  time  by  visions,  revelations  and  locutions,  at 
another  by  figures  and  similitudes,  and  again  by  other 
and  different  ways  of  communication.  For  all  the 
answers,  locutions,  and  revelations  of  old  were  mysteries 
of  the  faith,  or  matters  pertaining  or  tending  thereto ; 
inasmuch  as  the  objects  of  faith  proceed  not  from  man, 
but  from  the  mouth  of  God  Himself,  Who,  by  His  own 
mouth  has  revealed  them.  He  therefore  rebuked  them 
when  they  did  not  consult  Him  ;  for  it  was  His  will  they 
should  do  so,  that  He  might  answer  them,  directing  all 
things  towards  the  faith,  of  which  they  had  then  no 
knowledge.  But  now  that  the  faith  of  Christ  is  estab¬ 
lished,  and  the  evangelical  law  promulgated  in  this  day 
of  grace,  there  is  no  necessity  to  consult  Him  as  before, 
nor  that  He  should  answer  and  speak.  P  or  in  giving  to 
us,  as  He  hath  done,  Plis  Son,  Who  is  His  only  Word, 
He  has  spoken  unto  us  once  for  all  by  His  own  and  only 
Word,  and  has  nothing  further  to  reveal. 


184 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II. J 

4.  This  is  the  meaning  of  St.  Paul  in  those  words,  by 
which  he  endeavoured  to  persuade  the  Jews  to  abandon 
the  ancient  ways  of  conversing  with  God,  according  to 
the  law  of  Moses,  and  to  fix  their  eyes  on  Christ  alone. 

‘  God,  Who  at  sundry  times  and  in  divers  manners  spoke, 
in  times  past  to  the  fathers  by  the  prophets,  last  of  all, 
in  these  days  hath  spoken  to  us  by  His  Son.’*  God  hath 
now  so  spoken,  that  nothing  remains  unspoken  ;  for  that 
which  He  partially  revealed  to  the  prophets  He  hath 
now  revealed  wholly  in  Him,  giving  unto  us  all,  that  is, 
His  Son.  And,  therefore,  he  who  should  now  enquire  of 
God  in  the  ancient  way,  seeking  visions  or  revelations, 
would  offend  Plim  ;  because  he  does  not  fix  his  eyes 
upon  Christ  alone,  disregarding  all  besides.  To  such  an 
one  the  answer  of  God  is  :  ‘  This  is  My  beloved  Son,  in 
whom  I  am  well  pleased,  hear  ye  Him.’t  I  have  spoken 
all  by  My  Word,  my  Son  ;  fix  thine  eyes  upon  Him,  foi 
in  Him  I  have  spoken  and  revealed  all,  and  thou  wilt 
find  in  Him  more  than  thou  desirest  or  askest.  For  if 
thou  desirest  partial  visions,  revelations,  or  words,  fix 
thine  eyes  upon  Him,  and  thou  shalt  find  all.  He  is  My 
whole  voice  and  answer,  My  whole  vision  and  revelation, 
which  I  spoke,  answered,  made,  and  revealed,  when  I 
gave  Him  to  be  thy  brother,  master,  companion,  ransom 
and  reward.  I  descended  upon  Him  with  My  Spirit  on 
Mount  Tabor,  and  said,  ‘  This  is  My  beloved  Son,  in 
whom  I  am  well  pleased,  hear  ye  Him.'  It  is  not  for 
thee  to  seek  new  oracles  and  responses ;  for  when  I 
spoke  in  former  times  it  was  to  promise  Christ  :  and  the 
prayers  of  those  who  then  enquired  of  Me  were  prayers 


Heb.  i.  i. 


t  St.  Matth.  xvii.  5. 


185 


[CHAP.  XXII.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

for  Christ  and  expectations  of  His  coming,  in  Whom  all 
good  is  comprehended,  according  to  the  teaching  of  the 
Evangelists  and  Apostles.  But,  now,  he  who  shall 
enquire  of  Me  in  the  ancient  way,  or  hope  for  an  answer 
at  My  mouth,  or  that  I  should  make  to  him  any  revela¬ 
tion,  shows  that  he  is  not  content  with  Christ,  and 
therefore  grievously  wrongs  My  beloved  Son.  While 
thou  hast  Christ  thou  hast  nothing  to  ask  of  Me,  nothing 
to  desire  in  the  way  of  visions  or  revelations.  Look  well 
unto  Him,  and  thou  wilt  find  that  I  have  given  all  this 
and  much  more  in  Christ.  If  thou  desirest  a  word  of 
consolation  from  My  mouth,  behold  My  Son  obedient  to 
Me  and  afflicted  for  My  love,  and  thou  wilt  see  how 
great  is  the  answer  I  give  thee.  If  thou  desirest  to  learn 
of  God  secret  things,  fix  thine  eyes  upon  Christ,  and 
thou  wilt  find  the  profoundest  mysteries,  the  wisdom 
and  marvels  of  God,  hidden  in  Him  :  ‘  In  Whom,’  saith 
the  Apostle,  ‘are  hid  all  the  treasures  of  wisdom  and 
knowledge.’*  These  treasures  will  be  sweeter  and  more 
profitable  to  thee  than  all  those  things  thou  desirest  to 
know.  It  was  in  these  that  the  Apostle  gloried  when  he 
said,  ‘I  judged  not  myself  to  know  anything  among  you 
but  Jesus  Christ  and  Him  crucified.f  If  thou  desirest 
‘  other  visions  and  revelations,  divine  or  bodily,  look  upon 
His  Sacred  Humanity,  and  thou  wilt  find  there  more 
than  can  ever  enter  into  thy  thoughts,  ‘for  in  Him 
dwelleth  all  the  fulness  of  the  Godhead  corporally.’? 

5.  It  is,  therefore,  unbecoming  to  enquire  of  God  by 
supernatural  ways,  and  there  is  no  necessity  that  He 
should  reply,  for  as  He  has  spoken  by  Christ,  we  ought  to 

*  Coloss.  ii.  3.  t  I  Co.  ii.  2.  X  Coloss  ii.  9. 


186 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.  J 

desire  nothing  more.  He  who  shall  now  desire  to  know 
anything  by  extraordinary  supernatural  ways,  implies  a 
defect  in  God,  as  if  He  had  not  given  us  enough  when 
He  gave  us  His  only  Son.  For  though  we  should 
enquire  of  Him,  admitting  the  faith  and  believing  it,  we 
should  be  guilty  of  curiosity  showing  but  little  faith.  If 
we  are  thus  curious  we  cannot  expect  to  be  taught,  nor 
receive  any  other  help  in  the  supernatural  way.  For  at 
that  moment  when  Christ,  dying  on  the  cross  cried  out, 
‘  it  is  consummated,’*  not  these  forms  of  prayer  only,  but 
all  the  rites  and  ceremonies  also  of  the  old  law  were 
done  away  with. 

6.  We  must,  therefore,  be  guided  in  everything  by  the 
teaching  of  Christ,  of  His  Church  and  ministers,  and 
through  it  seek  the  remedy  for  all  our  spiritual  ignorance 
and  infirmities.  It  is  in  this  way  that  we  shall  obtain  an 
abundant  relief ;  all  that  goes  beyond  this,  or  neglects  it, 
is  not  curiosity  only,  but  great  rashness  ;  and  we  are  to 
rely  upon  nothing  supernatural  which  does  not  rest  on 
the  teaching-  of  Christ,  God  and  man,  and  of  His 
ministers.  So  great  is  the  obligation  to  do  this,  that 
St.  Paul  said  :  ‘  Though  we,  or  an  angel  from  heaven, 
preach  to  you  a  gospel,  beside  that  which  you  have 
received,  let  him  be  anathema.’ f  Seeing,  then,  that  it 
is  true  that  we  must  abide  in  the  teaching  of  Christ, 
that  all  beside  is  nothing  and  not  to  be  believed,  unless 
it  be  in  harmony  therewith,  he  laboureth  in  vain  who 
attempts  to  converse  with  God  according  to  the  way  of 
the  ancient  dispensation.  Moreover,  it  was  not  lawful 
in  those  days  for  everyone  to  enquire  of  God—  neither 


*St.  John.  xix.  3a 


t  Galat.  i.  8. 


[chap.  XXII.] 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


187 


did  God  answer  everyone— but  only  for  the  priests  and 
the  prophets,  for  it  was  at  their  mouth  that  men  were  to 
seek  for  the  law  and  knowledge.  Whenever,  therefore, 
anyone  enquired  of  God,  he  did  so  through  a  prophet 
or  a  priest,  and  not  by  himself.  And  if  David  from  time 
to  time  enquired  of  God,  it  was  because  he  was  himself 
a  prophet,  and  even  then  he  did  not  do  so  without 
assuming  the  priestly  robe  ;  as  we  learn  from  his  words 
to  Abiathar,  ‘  bring  me  hither  the  ephod,’*  which  was 
one  of  the  chief  sacerdotal  vestments.  When  the  ephod 
was  brought,  then  it  was  he  enquired  of  God.  But  at 
other  times  he  made  use  of  the  services  of  Nathan  and 
other  prophets.  Men  were  to  believe  that  what  the 
priests  said  to  them  came  from  God,  because  it  was 
spoken  by  the  mouth  of  prophets  and  of  priests,  and 
not  because  they  themselves  judged  it  safe.  The  words 
of  God  in  those  days  were  not  meant  by  Him  to  be  fully 
relied  on,  unless  uttered  by  the  mouth  of  priests  and 
prophets  ;  for  it  is  the  will  of  God  that  man  should  be 
governed  and  directed  by  another  man  like  himself,  and 
that  we  should  not  give  entire  belief  to  His  own  super¬ 
natural  communications,  nor  rely  securely  upon  them, 
until  they  shall  have  passed  through  the  human  channel 
of  another  man’s  mouth.  And  so  it  is,  whenever  He 
reveals  anything  to  the  human  soul,  He  does  so  by 
inclining  that  soul,  and  him  to  whom  it  should  be  made 
known,  to  the  matter  of  His  revelation.  Until  then,  the 
soul  will  be  destitute  of  entire  satisfaction  therein,  in 
order  that  man  may  obtain  it  through  another  like 
himself,  and  whom  God  has  appointed  to  stand  in  His 
place. 


*  1  Kings  xxiii.  9. 


188 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.  j 

7.  We  read  in  the  book  of  the  Judges  that  so  it  was 
with  Gedeon,  to  whom  God  had  more  than  once  promised 
victory  over  the  Madianites.  He  continued,  nevertheless, 
to  hesitate  and  fear,  God  having  left  him  in  his  weakness, 
until  he  heard  from  the  mouth  of  men  that  which  God 
had  announced  Himself.  So  when  God  saw  him  hesitate, 
He  said  unto  him,  ‘Arise,  and  go  down  into  the 
camp  ....  and  when  thou  shalt  hear  what  they  are 
saying,  then  shall  thy  hands  be  strengthened,  and  thou 
shalt  go  down  more  secure  into  the  enemies’  camp.’* 
So  when  he  had  penetrated  within  the  camp  of  the 
Madianites,  he  heard  one  of  them  tell  another  how  he 
dreamed  that  Gedeon  conquered  them.  Upon  this  he 
took  courage,  and  with  great  joy  made  his  preparations 
for  battle.  It  appears  from  this,  that  God’s  will  was 
that  he  should  not  feel  secure  till  he  heard  from  another, 
what  God  had  revealed  himself. 

8.  A  like  event  in  the  life  of  Moses  is  more  wonderful 
still.  God  sent  him  with  many  instructions,  confirming 
them  by  miracles— the  rod  he  had  was  changed  into  a 
serpent,  and  his  hand  became  leprous— to  be  the  deliverer 
of  the  people  of  Israel.  But  Moses  was  so  weak, 
hesitating,  and  doubtful  of  his  course,  that,  notwith¬ 
standing  God’s  being  angry  with  him,  he  could  not 
resolve  to  undertake  his  work  until  God  encouraged  him 
by  the  mouth  of  Aaron  his  brother  :  ‘  Aaron  the  Levite 
is  thy  brother ;  I  know  that  he  is  eloquent ;  behold,  he 
cometh  forth  to  meet  thee,  and,  seeing  thee,  shall  be 
glad  at  heart.  Speak  to  him,  and  put  my  words  in 
his  mouth,  and  I  will  be  in  thy  mouth  and  in  his  mouth.’t 

*  Judg.  vii.  9,  II.  f  Ex.  iv.  14,  15. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


189 


[CHAP.  XXII.] 


When  Aloses  heard  this  he  took  courage,  in  the  hope  of 
that  comfort  which  he  was  to  receive  from  the  counsels 
of  his  brother  Aaron. 


9.  Such,  too,  is  the  conduct  of  the  humble  soul:  it  will 
not  presume  to  converse  with  God  by  itself,  neither  can 
it  satisfy  itself  without  human  counsel  and  direction. 
Such,  also,  is  the  will  of  God,  for  He  draws  near  to  those 
who  come  together  in  the  way  of  truth,  to  make  it  clear, 
and  to  strengthen  them  in  it,  as  He  promised  to  do  in 
the  case  of  Moses  and  Aaron — namely,  to  be  in  the 
mouth  of  them  both.  He  has  promised  us  in  His  gospel 
to  help  us  in  the  same  way,  saying,  ‘  Where  there  are 
two  or  three  gathered  together  in  My  name,  there  am  I 
in  the  midst  of  them.’  *  Where  two  or  three  meei 
together,  to  consider  what  is  for  the  greater  glory  and 
honour  of  My  name,  there  am  I  in  the  midst  of  them, 
enlightening  them,  and  confirming  the  truths  of  God  in 
their  hearts.  Remember,  He  does  not  say  :  Where  one 
is,  but  where  two  are,  at  the  least.  He  would  have  us 
know  that  it  is  not  His  will  that  anyone  should,  trusting 
to  himself,  rely  on  the  divine  communications  ;  and  that 
He  will  not  establish  us  therein  without  the  authority 
and  direction  of  the  Church  or  His  ministers.  God  will 
not  enlighten  him  who  is  alone,  nor  confirm  the  truth  in 
his  heart :  such  an  one  will  be  weak  and  cold. 

10.  This  truth  is  insisted  on  by  the  preacher,  saying, 
‘Woe  to  him  that  is  alone,  for  when  he  falleth,  he  hath 
none  to  lift  him  up.  And  if  two  lie  together,  they  shall 
warm  one  another:  how  shall  one  alone  be  warmed  ?  And 
if  a  man  prevail  against  one,  two  shall  withstand  him.’f 


* 


f  Eccles.  iv.  io,  ii,  12. 


St.  Matt,  xviii  20. 


190 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.] 

They  shall  ‘  warm  one  another  ’  in  the  fire  of  God  ;  and 
he  that  is  alone  cannot  be  but  cold  in  the  things  of  God. 
If  the  evil  one  prevail  against  those  who  are  alone  in 
their  spiritual  affairs,  two,  that  is  the  penitent  and  his 
director,  shall  resist  him  when  they  come  together  to 
learn  and  practise  the  truth.  And  in  general,  until  this 
be  done,  he  who  is  alone  is  weak  and  lukewarm  in  it, 
though  he  may  have  heard  it  of  God  more  than  once. 
St.  Paul  himself,  having  preached  the  gospel  for  some 
time,  and  having  received  it,  not  from  man,  but  from 
God,  would  not  proceed  further  without  conferring  with 
St.  Peter  and  the  other  Apostles,  lest  he  should  ‘  run,  or 
had  run  in  vain.’  * 

11.  It  is  clear  from  these  words  of  the  Apostle,  that  it  is 
not  safe  to  rely  on  that  which  seems  to  be  a  revelation 
from  God,  except  under  the  conditions  I  have  described. 
For  even  if  a  person  were  certain  that  a  particular 
revelation  is  from  God,  as  St.  Paul  was  of  the  gospel — 
for  he  had  begun  to  preach  it — still  such  an  one  might 
err  in  the  execution  of  his  work  and  in  matters  pertaining 
to  it.  For  God  does  not  always  reveal  the  one,  while 
He  reveals  the  other ;  frequently  He  reveals  a  matter 
without  revealing  how  it  is  to  be  brought  about— because, 
in  general,  all  that  is  within  the  province  of  human 
sagacity  and  skill  He  does  not  Himself  perform  nor 
declare,  though  He  may  have  conversed  familiarly  for  a 
long  time  with  him  to  whom  the  revelation  is  made. 
St.  Paul  understood  this  well,  for  though  he  knew  that 
the  gospel  he  preached  was  a  divine  revelation,  he 
conferred  ’  with  St.  Peter. 

*  Gal.  ii.  2. 


[CHAP.  XXII.  J  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL.  19) 

12.  We  Live  a  most  clear  illustration  of  this  truth  in  the 
life  of  Moses.  Though  God  conversed  so  familiarly  with 
him.  He  never  gave  him  the  salutary  counsel  which 
Jethro  suggested,  that  he  should  appoint  other  judges  to 
assist  him,  that  the  people  might  not  *  wait  from  morning 
till  night.’  ‘  Provide  out  of  all  the  people  able  men, 
such  as  fear  God,  in  whom  there  is  truth  .  .  .  who  may 
judge  the  people  at  the  times.’*  God  approved  of  the 
counsel  of  Jethro,  but  He  gave  it  not,  because  the  matter 
was  within  the  limits  of  human  prudence  and  discretion. 

13.  In  the  same  way,  too,  all  things  relating  to  visions 
and  divine  locutions,  which  are  within  the  compass  ot 
human  prudence  and  discretion,  are  not  made  known  to 
us  by  God :  it  being  always  His  will,  that  we  should 
make  use  of  our  natural  endowments,  so  far  as  possible ; 
except  in  matters  of  faith,  which  transcend  the  province 
of  judgment  and  reason,  though  they  are  not  contrary  to 
them.  Let  no  man,  therefore,  imagine,  although  God 
and  His  Saints  converse  familiarly  with  him  about  many 
things,  that  they  will  also  reveal  to  him  the  faults  he 
commits  with  respect  to  the  matter  of  the  revelation  ;  for 
he  may  ascertain  these  in  another  way.  We  must  not 
be  too  confident  in  this  matter ;  for  St.  Peter  himself,  the 
prince  of  the  Church,  and  immediately  taught  of  God, 
fell  into  error  in  his  intercourse  with  the  Gentiles.  God 
was  silent,  and  St.  Paul  rebuked  him,  as  he  tells  us 
himself :  ‘  When  I  saw  that  they  walked  not  uprightly 
unto  the  truth  of  the  Gospel,  I  said  to  Cephas,  before 
them  all :  If  thou,  being  a  Jew,  livest  after  the  manner 
Gf  the  Gentiles,  and  not  as  the  Jews  do,  how  dost  thou 


Ex.  xviii.  21,  22. 


c92 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.] 

compel  the  Gentiles  to  live  as  do  the  Jews  ?'*  God  did 
not  war'll  Peter  of  his  fault,  because  he  might  have 
known  it  in  the  ordinary  way.  In  the  day  of  judgment 
God  will  punish  many  for  sins  and  errors,  with  whom 
He  holds  familiar  intercourse  now,  and  to  whom  He 
gives  much  light  and  strength ;  because  they  are  negli¬ 
gent  in  what  they  know  they  ought  to  do— relying  on 
their  converse  with  Plim,  and  disregarding  all  besides. 
Such  persons  will  then  be  astonished,  as  our  Lord  tells 
us ;  and  they  will  cry,  ‘  Lord,  Lord,  have  we  not  pro¬ 
phesied  in  Thy  name,  and  cast  out  devils  in  Thy  name, 
and  done  many  miracles  in  Thy  name  ?  ’  The  answer  ot 
the  Judge  will  be,  ‘  I  never  knew  you  ;  depart  from  Me, 
you  that  work  iniquity.’  t  Of  the  number  of  these  was 
Balaam,  and  others  like  him,  who  were  sinners,  even 
though  God  held  converse  with  them.  God  will  also 
rebuke  the  elect,  His  own  friends,  with  whom  He  con¬ 
versed  familiarly  in  this  life,  for  the  faults  and  negli¬ 
gences  of  which  they  are  guilty.  It  is  not  necessary  for 
Him  to  warn  them  now  directly,  because  He  has  given 
them  reason  and  the  natural  law  to  remind  them  of  their 
errors. 

14.  In  conclusion,  then,  I  say — and  I  gather  it  from  the 
foregoing  principle  — that  all  communications  made  to  the 
soul,  of  whatever  kind  and  in  whatever  form,  ought  to 
be  clearly,  distinctly,  and  simply  revealed  to  our  spiritual 
director  forthwith,  and  in  all  truthfulness.  Though  such 
communications  seem  to  us  of  no  moment,  and  not  worth 
the  time  they  take  up  in  recounting  them — seeing  that 
the  soul,  by  rejecting  them  and  making  no  account  of 
*  Gal.  ii.  14.  t  St.  Matt.  vii.  22,  23. 


193 


[CHAP.  XXII.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

them,  remains  secure,  as  I  have  said ;  and  more  especially 
if  they  are  visions  or  revelations  or  other  supernatural 
visitations,  whether  clear  or  not,  or  whether  it  be  of  little 
importance  or  none — still  it  is  absolutely  necessary  to 
reveal  them,  though  we  may  think  otherwise  ourselves. 
There  are  three  reasons  why  it  should  be  done : 

15.  God  reveals  many  things,  the  fruit,  meaning,  and 
certainty  of  which  He  does  not  establish  in  the  soul  until 
he,  whom  God  has  constituted  the  spiritual  judge  of  that 
soul,  has  had  them  before  him ;  for  it  is  he  who  has  the 
power  to  bind  and  to  loose,  to  approve  and  reject,  those 
communications,  as  I  have  shown  by  the  illustrations  I 
have  given.  Daily  experience  teaches  us  the  same 
truth ;  for  those  humble  souls,  to  whom  these  visitations 
are  made,  attain  to  renewed  satisfaction,  strength,  en¬ 
lightenment,  and  security,  as  soon  as  they  have  revealed 
them  to  the  rightful  person.  Yea,  such  is  the  fruit  of  this 
submission,  that  some  who,  until  they  had  revealed  them, 
thought  they  had  received  them  not,  and  that  they  were 
not  theirs,  after  revealing  them  receive  them  as  it  were 
anew. 

16.  In  general  the  soul  to  whom  these  communications 
are  made  needs  instruction  therein,  that  it  may  be 
directed  in  that  way  to  poverty  of  spirit  and  detachment, 
which  is  the  dark  night.  For  if  the  necessary  instruc¬ 
tions  fail — even  when  the  soul  does  not  seek  these  things 
— the  result  will  be  an  unconscious  rudeness  in  the 
spiritual  way,  and  a  going  back  into  the  way  of 
sense. 

17.  An  unreserved  communication  is  necessary  for 
humbling  and  mortifying  the  soul,  though  we  make  no 


N 


194 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.  J 

account  of  these  visions,  and  regard  them  not.  For  there 
are  some  souls  who  have  a  great  repugnance  to  reveal 
these  matters,  because  they  think  them  to  be  of  no 
importance,  and  do  not  know  how  their  spiritual  director 
may  deal  with  them.  This  is  a  want  of  humility,  and 
therefore  such  persons  must  submit  to  reveal  them.  On 
the  other  hand,  there  are  some  who  are  ashamed  to 
make  known  these  things,  lest  they  should  seem  to  be 
like  the  saints,  or  for  other  reasons  which  fill  them  with 
pain  when  they  speak.  These,  therefore,  think  them¬ 
selves  dispensed  from  manifesting  their  state,  because 
they  attribute  no  importance  to  it.  But  this  is  the  very 
reason  why  they  should  mortify  themselves,  and  reveal 
what  has  passed  within  them,  until  they  become  humble, 
gentle,  and  ready  in  this,  and  ever  afterwards  reveal 
with  facility  their  interior  state. 

18.  But  remember,  though  I  say  that  these  communi¬ 
cations  are  to  be  set  aside,  and  that  confessors  should  be 
careful  not  to  discuss  them  with  their  penitents,  it  is  not 
right  for  spiritual  directors  to  show  themselves  severe 
in  the  matter,  or  betray  any  contempt  or  aversion  ;  lest 
their  penitents  should  shrink  within  themselves,  and  be 
afraid  to  reveal  their  condition,  and  so  fall  into  many  in¬ 
conveniences,  which  would  be  the  case  if  the  door  were 
thus  shut  against  them.  For,  as  I  said  before,  these 
supernatural  visitations  are  means  in  'the  hands  of  God 
for  guiding  souls,  and,  being  such,  they  must  not  be 
lightly  regarded  by  spiritual  directors,  who  are  not  to 
be  surprised  nor  scandalised  at  them  ;  yea,  rather,  they 
must  treat  them  with  gentleness  and  calmness,  encour¬ 
aging  their  penitents,  and  giving  them  every  opportunity 


195 


[CHAP.  XXIII.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

to  explain  them.  And,  if  it  be  necessary,  they  must  en¬ 
join  upon  them  this  manifestation,  for  at  times,  everything 
is  necessary  in  the  difficulty,  which  penitents  experience 
when  they  have  to  reveal  their  state.  Let  them  direct 
them  by  faith,  carefully  instructing  them  to  turn  away 
from  these  supernatural  visitations,  showing  them  how 
to  be  detached  therefrom  in  mind  and  desire,  so  that  they 
may  advance,  and  understand  that  one  good  work,  or  act 
of  the  will,  wrought  in  charity  is  more  precious  in  the 
eyes  of  God,  than  that  which  all  the  visions  and  revela¬ 
tions  of  heaven  might  effect ;  and  that  many  souls,  to 
whom  visions  have  never  come,  are  incomparably  more 
advanced  in  the  way  of  perfection,  than  others  to  whom 
many  have  been  given. 


CHAPTER  XXIII. 

Of  the  purely  spiritual  apprehensions  of  the  understanding. 

I  HAVE  been  somewhat  concise  in  the  discussion  of  those 
intellectual  apprehensions  which  are  derived  from  the 
senses,  if  we  regard  the  abundance  of  the  matter,  and  I 
am  unwilling  to  pursue  it  at  greater  length  ;  because,  so 
far  as  my  purpose  is  concerned — which  is  the  extrication 
of  the  understanding  from  them,  and  the  direction  of  it 
into  the  night  of  faith — I  think  I  have  said  more  than 
enough.  I  shall,  now,  therefore,  enter  on  the  discussion 
of  the  other  four  apprehensions  of  the  understanding, 
which,  in  the  tenth  chapter,  I  said  were  purely  spiritual 
— namely,  visions,  revelations,  locutions,  and  spiritual 
impressions.  I  call  these  purely  spiritual,  because  they 


N.2 


196 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  n.] 

do  not,  like  those  which  are  bodily  and  imaginary,  reach 
the  understanding  by  the  way  of  the  senses  of  the  body ; 
but  because  they  reach  it  independently  of  every  bodily 
sense,  interior  or  exterior,  clearly  and  distinctly  in  a 
supernatural  way,  and  passively ;  that  is,  irrespectively 
of,  at  least,  any  active  operation  on  the  part  of  the  soul 
itself. 

2.  Speaking  generally,  we  may  say  that  these  four  ap¬ 
prehensions  may  be  called  visions  of  the  soul ;  for  we  say 
that  the  soul  sees  when  it  understands.  And  inasmuch 
as  all  these  apprehensions  are  intelligible  to  the  under¬ 
standing,  we  say  that  they  are  spiritually  visible  ;  and 
therefore  the  particular  intelligence  of  them,  formed  in 
the  understanding,  may  be  called  intellectual  vision. 
And  as  all  the  objects  of  the  senses— of  seeing,  hearing, 
smelling,  tasting,  and  touching— in  so  far  as  they  are 
true  or  false,  are  objects  of  the  understanding,  it  follows 
that,  as  all  that  is  bodily  visible  is  an  occasion  of  corpo¬ 
real  visions  to  the  bodily  eyes ,  so  all  that  is  intelligible 
is  an  occasion  of  spiritual  vision  to  the  spiritual  eye  of 
the  soul,  which  is  the  understanding  ;  for,  as  I  have  said, 
to  understand  is  to  see.  And  thus,  speaking  generally, 
these  four  apprehensions  may  be  called  visions.  The 
other  senses,  however,  cannot  be  thus  applied,  for  not 
one  of  them  is  capable  of  receiving,  as  such,  the  subject- 
matter  of  another. 

3.  But  as  these  apprehensions  are  represented  to  the 
soul  in  the  same  manner  as  to  all  the  senses,  it  follows,  to 
use  the  proper  and  specific  terms,  that  all  which  the  un¬ 
derstanding  receives  by  the  way  of  seeing — for  it  can  see 
spiritually,  as  the  eyes  see  bodily — may  be  called  vision ; 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


197 


[CHAP.  XXIII.] 

that  which  it  receives  by  apprehending-  and  perceiving 
new  things,  revelation  ;  that  which  it  receives  by  the  way 
of  hearing,  locution ;  and  that  which  it  receives  in  the 
way  of  the  other  senses,  such  as  spiritual  odour,  taste, 
and  delectation,  of  which  the  soul  is  supernaturally  con¬ 
scious,  may  be  called  spiritual  impressions.  From  all 
this  the  understanding  elicits  an  act  of  intelligence  or 
spiritual  vision,  as  I  have  said,  without  perceiving  any 
form,  image,  or  figure  whatever  of  the  natural  imagina¬ 
tion  or  fancy,  which  could  furnish  any  foundation  for  it  : 
for  these  things  are  communicated  directly  to  the  soul  by 
a  supernatural  operation  and  by  supernatural  means. 

4.  The  understanding,  therefore,  must  be  withdrawn 
from  them — precisely  as  from  the  corporeal  and  imaginary 
apprehensions  — by  being  guided  and  directed  in  the 
spiritual  night  of  faith  to  the  divine  and  substantial  union 
of  the  love  of  God,  that  it  may  not  be  embarrassed  and 
made  stupid  by  them,  and  thereby  be  hindered  on  the 
road  of  solitude,  and  detachment  necessary  for  that  end. 
If  it  be  granted  that  these  apprehensions  are  of  a  higher 
kind,  more  profitable  and  much  more  safe  than  those 
which  are  corporeal  and  imaginary,  because  they  are 
interior,  purely  spiritual,  and  less  liable  to  the  intrusions 
of  satan,  and  because  they  are  communications  of  God  to 
the  soul,  in  the  greatest  pureness  and  subtilty,  indepen¬ 
dent  of,  at  least,  any  active  operations  of  the  soul  or  of 
the  imagination  ;  still  the  understanding  may  be  not 
only  embarrassed  by  them,  but,  because  of  its  incautious¬ 
ness,  greatly  deluded. 

5.  I  might  now  finish  with  these  four  apprehensions 
together,  by  giving  advice  common  to  them  all,  as  I  have 


198 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.] 

already  done  with  the  others — namely  :  let  no  man  seek 
them  or  desire  them :  still,  inasmuch  as  a  different 
course  will  enlighten  us  how  to  do  so,  and  as  there  is 
something  still  to  be  said  with  reference  to  them,  I  think 
it  well  to  treat  of  each  one  of  them  in  particular.  With 
this  view  I  now  proceed  to  speak  of  the  first  of  them — 
spiritual  or  intellectual  visions. 


CHAPTER  XXIV. 

Of  the  two  kinds  of  spiritual  visions  which  come  by  the  super¬ 
natural  way. 

I  SAY,  then,  speaking  directly  of  the  spiritual  visions, 
independent  of  any  bodily  sense,  that  there  are  two  kinds 
to  which  the  understanding  is  liable :  one  of  corporeal 
substances,  another  of  disembodied  or  unembodied  sub¬ 
stances.  The  corporeal  visions  are  visions  of  all  material 
things  in  heaven  and  earth,  visible  to  the  soul  in  a 
certain  light  emanating  from  God,  in  which  the  distant 
things  of  heaven  and  earth  may  be  seen.  The  other 
visions  of  incorporeal  things  require  a  higher  light :  thus 
visions  of  incorporeal  substances,  as  of  angels  and  of 
souls,  are  neither  frequent  nor  natural  in  this  life  ;  and 
still  less  so  is  the  vision  of  the  divine  essence,  which  is 
peculiar  to  the  blessed,  unless  it  be  communicated  tran¬ 
siently  by  a  dispensation  of  God,  or  by  conservation  of 
our  natural  life  and  condition,  and  the  abstraction  of  the 
spirit ;  as  was  perhaps  the  case  of  St.  Paul  when  he 
heard  the  unutterable  secrets  in  the  third  heaven, 
‘  Whether  in  the  body’,  saith  he,  ‘I  know  not,  or  out  of 


[CHAP.  XXIV.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL.  199 

the  body,  I  know  not ;  God  knoweth.’*  It  is  clear  from 
the  words  of  the  Apostle  that  he  was  carried  out  of 
himself,  by  the  act  of  God,  as  to  his  natural  existence. 

2.  It  is  also  believed  that  God  showed  His  own  essence 
to  Moses,  for  He  said  unto  him  that  He  would  set  him 
in  a  hole  of  the  rock,  and  protect  him  with  His  right 
hand,  that  he  might  not  die  when  His  glory  passed  by.f 
This  passing  by  was  a  transient  vision,  God  upholding 
with  His  right  hand  the  natural  life  of  Moses.  But  these 
essential  visions,  such  as  those  of  St.  Paul,  Moses,  and 
our  father  Elias,  when,  at  the  whistling  of  a  gentle  air, 
he  ‘  covered  his  face  with  his  mantle, '+  are  transient  and 
of  most  rare  occurrence,  and  scarcely  ever  granted,  and 
to  very  few ;  tor  God  shows  them  only  to  those  who,  like 
these,  are  the  mighty  ones  of  His  Church  and  law. 

3.  Now,  though,  in  the  ordinary  course,  these  visions 
cannot  be  clearly  and  distinctly  seen  in  this  life,  the 
effect  of  them  may  be  felt  in  the  very  substance  of  the 
soul,  through  the  instrumentality  of  a  loving  knowledge, 
in  the  most  sweet  touch  and  union  pertaining  to  the 
spiritual  impressions,  of  which,  by  the  grace  of  God,  I 
shall  speak  hereafter.  The  end  I  have  in  view  is  the 
divince  embracing,  the  union  of  the  soul  with  the  divine 
substance.  I  shall  speak  of  it  when  I  treat  of  the 
mystical,  confused,  or  obscure  intelligence,  and  explain 
how,  in  this  loving  and  obscure  knowledge,  God  unites 
Himself,  with  the  soul,  eminently  and  divinely.  For 
this  loving  obscure  knowledge,  which  is  faith,  serves 
in  a  manner,  in  this  life  as  means  of  the  divine  union. 


*  2  Cor.  xii.  2. 


f  Ex.  xxxiii.  22. 


I  3  Kings  xix.  13. 


200  THE  ASCENT  [BOOK  II.] 

as  the  light  of  glory  hereafter  serves  for  the  beatific 
vision. 

4.  Let  me  now,  then,  speak  of  visions  of  corporeal 
substances,  spiritually  presented  to  the  soul,  after  the 
manner  of  bodily  visions.  As  the  eyes  behold  bodily 
things  in  natural  light,  so  the  understanding,  in  light 
supernaturally  derived,  beholds  interiorly  the  same 
natural  things,  and  others  also  such  as  God  wills ;  the 
vision,  however,  is  different  in  kind  and  form,  for  spiritual 
or  intellectual  visions  are  much  more  clear  and  subtile 
than  bodily  visions.  When  God  grants  this  favour  to 
any  one,  He  communicates  to  him  that  supernatural 
light,  of  which  I  have  spoken,  wherein  he  beholds  what 
God  wills,  most  easily  and  most  distinctly,  whether  they 
be  things  of  heaven  or  of  earth  ;  neither  is  their 
presence  nor  their  absence  any  impediment  to  the  vision. 

5.  When  these  visions  occur,  it  is  as  if  a  door  were 
opened  into  a  most  marvellous  light,  whereby  the  soul 
sees,  as  men  do  when  the  lightning  suddenly  flashes  in 
a  dark  night.  The  lightning  makes  surrounding  objects 
visible  for  an  instant,  and  then  leaves  them  in  darkness, 
though  the  forms  of  them  remain  in  the  fancy.  But  in 
the  case  of  the  soul  the  vision  is  much  more  perfect ;  for 
those  things  it  saw  in  spirit  in  that  light  are  so 
impressed  upon  it,  that  whenever  God  enlightens  it  again, 
it  beholds  them  as  distinctly  as  it  did  at  first,  precisely 
as  in  a  mirror,  in  which  we  see  objects  reflected  whenever 
we  look  upon  it.  These  visions  once  granted  to  the  soul 
never  afterward  leave  it  altogether ;  for  the  forms  remain, 
thowgii  they  become  somewhat  indistinct  in  the  course 
qf  tim§. 


201 


[CHAP.  XXIV.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

6.  The  effects  of  these  visions  in  the  soul  are  quietness, 
enlightenment,  joy  like  glory,  sweetness,  pureness,  love, 
humility,  inclination,  or  elevation  of  the  mind  to  God, 
sometimes  more,  sometimes  less,  sometimes  more  of  one, 
sometimes  more  of  another,  according  to  the  disposition 
of  the  soul  and  the  will  of  God. 

7.  The  devil,  too,  can  produce  or  mimic  these  visions  by 
means  of  a  certain  natural  light.  He  employs  therein 
the  fancy,  in  which,  by  spiritual  insinuations,  he  presents 
clearly  before  the  mind  either  present  or  distant  things, 
And  some  doctors,  commenting  on  that  place  in  the 
Gospel  where  it  is  written  that  the  devil  ‘  showed  ’  our 
Lord  ‘all  the  kingdoms  of  the  world,’*  say  that  he  did 
so  by  a  spiritual  insinuation,  because  it  was  impossible 
to  see  at  once  ‘  all  the  kingdoms  of  the  world  and  the 
glory  of  them  ’  with  the  bodily  eyes.  But  there  is  a 
great  difference  between  the  visions  of  God  and  those  of 
the  evil  one.  For  the  effect  of  the  latter  is  not  like  that 
of  the  former  :  those  of  satan  result  in  dryness  of  spirit, 
in  a  tendency  to  self-esteem,  to  accept  and  make  much 
of  visions  :  and  in  no  degree  whatever  do  they  produce 
the  gentleness  of  humility,  and  love  of  God;  Again,  the 
forms  of  the  diabolic  visions  do  not  remain  impressed  on 
the  soul  with  the  sweet  clearness  of  the  others,  neither 
do  they  endure,  yea,  rather,  are  immediately  effaced, 
except  when  the  soul  attaches  itself  to  them  :  in  that 
case  the  importance  attached  to  them  causes  them  to  be 
remembered  naturally,  but  with  great  dryness  of  spirit, 
and  without  the  fruit  of  humility  and  love,  which  issue 

*  S.  Matt.  iv.  8  ;  vide  S.  Thom.  p.  3,  q.  41,  a.  2,  3  ;  Abulensem  in  Matt. 
iv.,q-  49- 


202  the  ascent  [book  II.] 

out  of  the  good  visions,  whenever  they  recur  to  the 
memory. 

8.  These  visions,  inasmuch  as  they  are  visions  of  created 
things,  between  which  and  God  there  is  no  congruity  or 
proportion,  cannot  subserve  the  understanding  as  proxi¬ 
mate  means  of  the  divine  union.  It  is,  therefore,  necessary 
for  the  soul  to  be  negatively  disposed  with  respect  to 
them,  as  well  as  to  the  others,  if  it  is  to  advance  by  the 
proximate  means,  which  is  faith.  And  therefore  the  forms 
which  these  visions  show,  and  which  remain  impressed 
on  the  soul,  must  not  be  treasured  up  nor  preserved, 
neither  must  we  trust  to  them  ;  for  this  would  be  to 
embarrass  ourselves  by  dwelling  on  forms,  images,  and 
persons,  which  relate  to  the  interior  life,  and  not  to 
advance  in  the  denial  of  all  things  onwards  unto  God. 
For  supposing  that  these  forms  are  continually  present, 
that  would  be  no  great  hindrance,  if  we  make  no  account 
of  them.  Though  it  be  true  that  the  recollection  of  them 
excites  the  soul  to  a  certain  love  of  God,  and  to  contem¬ 
plation,  yet  pure  faith  and  detachment  in  darkness 
excites  it  much  more,  without  the  soul’s  knowing  how  or 
whence  it  cometh.  The  end  of  this  will  be  that  the  soul 
goes  forward,  on  fire  with  the  anxieties  of  the  most  pure 
love  of  God,  without  knowing  whence  they  come  or  on 
what  foundations  they  rest.  In  short,  as  faith  is  rooted 
and  infused  more  and  more  into  the  soul,  in  this  empti¬ 
ness  and  darkness,  in  detachment  from  all  things,  in 
poverty  of  spirit— these  are  different  expressions  of  one 
and  the  same  thing— so  also  the  charity  of  God  is  the 
more  rooted  and  infused  into  the  soul.  And  therefore 
the  more  the  soul  strives  to  become  blind  and  annihilated 


203 


|  CHAP.  XXIV.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

as  to  all  interior  and  exterior  things,  the  more  it  will  be 
filled  with  faith  and  love  and  hope.  But  this  love  at 
times  is  neither  comprehended  nor  felt,  because  it  does 
not  establish  itself  in  the  senses  with  tenderness,  but  in 
the  soul  with  fortitude,  with  greater  courage  and  resolu¬ 
tion  than  before  ;  though  it  sometimes  overflows  into  the 
senses,  and  shows  itself  tender  and  gentle. 

9.  In  order,  then,  to  attain  to  this  love,  joy,  and  delight 
which  visions  effect,  it  is  necessary  that  the  soul 
should  have  fortitude,  and  be  mortified  ;  so  as  to  abide 
willingly  in  emptiness  and  darkness,  and  to  lay  the 
foundation  of  its  love  and  delight  on  what  it  neither  sees 
nor  feels,  on  what  it  cannot  see  nor  feel — namely,  on  God 
incomprehensible  and  supreme.  Our  way  to  Him,  is 
therefore,  of  necessity,  in  self-denial.  Even  if  a  soul 
were  so  wise,  strong,  and  humble  that  the  devil  could  not 
delude  it  by  visions,  nor  make  it  presumptuous,  as  he 
generally  does,  it  will  make  no  progress,  because  it  puts 
obstacles  in  the  way  of  spiritual  detachment  and  poverty 
of  spirit,  and  emptiness  in  faith,  the  essential  conditions 
of  the  divine  union. 

10.  As  the  principles  established  in  the  nineteenth  and 
the  twentieth  chapters,  concerning  the  visions  and  super¬ 
natural  apprehensions  of  the  senses,  are  applicable  to 
these  visions  also,  I  shall  not  spend  further  time  now  in 
treating  of  them  at  greater  length. 


204 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.] 


CHAPTER  XXV. 

Of  revelations  :  their  nature  and  division. 

I  have  now  to  speak,  in  the  order  laid  down,  of  the 
spiritual  apprehensions,  which  I  have  called  revelations. 
Of  these,  some  properly  belong  to  the  spirit  of  prophecy. 
In  the  first  place,  a  revelation  is  nothing  else  but  the  dis¬ 
closure  of  some  hidden  truth,  or  the  manifestation  of  some 
secret  or  mystery.  For  instance,  God  permits  a  certain 
soul  to  understand  a  particular  matter,  by  declaring  the 
truth  of  it  to  the  understanding,  or  makes  known  certain 
things  that  He  hath  done,  is  doing,  or  intends  to  do. 
This  being  so,  we  may  say  that  that  there  are  two  kinds 
of  revelations  ;  one,  the  disclosure  of  truths  to  the  under¬ 
standing,  properly  called  intellectual  knowledge  or 
intelligence ;  the  other,  a  manifestation  of  secrets,  and 
this  is  called  revelation  with  more  propriety  than  the 
former.  The  first  kind,  strictly  speaking,  cannot  be  called 
revelation,  because  it  consists  in  God’s  making  the  soul 
to  understand  pure  truths,  which  regard  not  only  temporal 
but  also  spiritual  things,  showing  them  openly  and 
distinctly.  I  have  resolved  to  treat  of  them  under  the 
term  revelations— first,  because  of  their  mutual  connection 
and  proximity,  and,  secondly,  because  I  would  not 
multiply  distinctions. 

2.  I  distinguish  revelations  therefore  into  two  kinds  of 
apprehensions — intellectual  knowledge,  and  the  manifes¬ 
tation  of  the  secrets  and  hidden  mysteries  of  God.  I 
shall  conclude  the  subject,  with  the  utmost  brevity,  in 
two  chapters  ;  and,  first,  of  intellectual  knowledge. 


[CHAP.  XXVI.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


205 


CHAPTER  XXVI. 

The  knowledge  of  pure  truths.  Two  kinds  thereof.  The  conduct 

of  the  soul  therein 

This  knowledge  of  pure  truths  requires,  for  its  proper 
explanation,  that  God  should  hold  the  hand  and  wield 
the  pen  of  the  writer.  Keep  in  mind,  my  dear  reader, 
that  these  matters  are  beyond  all  words.  But  as  my 
purpose  is  not  to  discuss  them,  but  to  teach  and  direct 
the  soul  through  them  to  the  divine  union,  it  will  be 
enough  if  I  speak  of  them  concisely  within  certain  limits, 
so  far  as  my  subject  requires  it. 

2.  This  kind  of  visions,  or  rather  knowledge  of  pure 
truths,  is  very  different  from  that  described  in  the 
iwenty-second  chapter,  for  it  is  not  the  same  with  the 
tntellectual  visions  of  bodily  things.  It  consists  in  com¬ 
prehending  or  seeing  with  the  understanding  the  truths 
of  God,  or  of  things,  or  concerning  things  which  are, 
have  been,  or  will  be.  It  is  most  like  to  the  spirit  of 
prophecy,  as  I  shall  perhaps  hereafter  explain.  This 
kind  of  knowledge  is  twofold  :  one  relates  to  the  Creator, 
the  other  to  creatures.  And  though  both  kinds  are  most 
full  of  sweetness,  the  delight  produced  by  that  which 
relates  to  God  is  not  to  be  compared  with  aught  beside ; 
and  there  are  neither  words  nor  language  to  describe  it, 
for  it  is  the  knowledge  of  God  Himself  and  his  delights  ; 
as  the  Psalmist  saith,  ‘There  is  no  one  like  to  Thee.’* 

3.  This  knowledge  relates  directly  unto  God,  in  the 
deepest  sense  of  some  of  His  attributes  ;  now  of  His 


Ps.  xxxix.  6. 


206 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.  J 

omnipotence,  now  of  His  might,  and  again  of  His  good¬ 
ness  and  sweetness  ;  and  whenever  the  soul  feels  it,  it  is 
penetrated  by  it.  In  so  far  as  this  becomes  pure  con¬ 
templation,  the  soul  sees  clearly  that  it  cannot  describe 
it  otherwise  than  in  general  terms,  which  the  abundance 
of  delight  and  happiness  forces  from  it;  but  still  those 
are  not  adequate  expressions  of  what  it  feels  within. 
Thus  David,  having  had  experience  of  this  state,  makes 
use  of  ordinary  words,  saying,  ‘The  judgments  of  the 
Lord,'  that  is,  what  we  judge  and  feel  about  God,  His 
might  and  His  attributes,  ‘  are  true,  justified  in  them¬ 
selves,  more  to  be  desired  than  gold  and  many  precious 
stones,  and  sweeter  than  honey  and  the  honeycomb.’  * 

4. When  God  gave  Moses  the  knowledge  of  Himself, 
while  passing  by,  all  that  Moses  could  say  was  uttered 
in  ordinary  words.  For  when  the  Lord  passed  before 
him  he  fell  prostrate  on  his  face,  and  said,  ‘  O  the  Lord, 
the  Lord  God,  merciful  and  gracious,  patient  and  of 
much  compassion  and  true,  Who  keepest  mercy  unto 
thousands  !’f  It  is  evident  from  this  that  Moses  was 
unable  to  describe  what  he  learned  of  God  in  that  parti¬ 
cular  knowledge,  and  so  gave  utterance  to  these  words. 
And  though  at  times,  when  this  knowledge  is  vouchsafed 
to  the  soul,  words  are  uttered,  yet  the  soul  knows  full 
well  that  it  has  in  nowise  expressed  what  it  felt,  because 
it  is  conscious  that  there  are  no  words  of  adequate  signi¬ 
fication.  Thus  St.  Paul,  admitted  to  this  knowledge  of 
God,  did  not  attempt  to  express  it,  only  saying  that  he 
had  ‘  heard  secret  words  which  it  was  not  granted  to  man 
to  utter.’* 

*  Ps.  xviii.  II.  t  Ex.  xxxiv.  6,  7.  X  2  Cor.  xii.  4. 


[CHAP.  XXVI.J  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


207 


5.  This  divine  knowledge  concerning  God  never  relates 
to  particular  things,  because  it  is  conversant  with  the 
Highest,  and  therefore  cannot  be  explained  unless  when 
it  is  extended  to  some  truth  less  than  God,  which  is 
capable  of  being  described ;  but  this  general  knowledge 
is  ineffable.  It  is  only  a  soul  in  union  with  God  that  is 
capable  of  this  profound  loving  knowledge,  for  it  is  itself 
that  union.  This  knowledge  consists  in  a  certain  contact 
of  the  soul  with  the  Divinity,  and  it  is  God  Himself  Who 
is  then  felt  and  tasted,  though  not  manifestly  and  dis¬ 
tinctly,  as  it  will  be  in  glory.  But  this  touch  of  know¬ 
ledge  and  of  sweetness  is  so  strong  and  so  profound  that 
it  penetrates  into  the  inmost  substance  of  the  soul,  and 
the  devil  cannot  interfere  with  it,  nor  produce  anything 
like  it— because  there  is  nothing  else  comparable  with 
it — nor  infuse  any  sweetness  or  delight  which  shall  at 
all  resemble  it.  This  knowledge  savours,  in  some 
measure,  of  the  divine  essence  and  of  everlasting  life, 
and  the  devil  has  no  power  to  simulate  anything  so 
great. 

6.  Nevertheless  the  devil  is  able  to  produce  certain 
pretended  imitations  of  it,  by  representing  to  the  soul  a 
certain  grandeur  and  sensible  fulness,  striving  to  per¬ 
suade  that  this  is  God  ;  but  he  cannot  so  do  this  as  that 
his  influence  shall  penetrate  into  the  interior  part  of 
the  soul,  renew  it,  and  fill  it  with  love  profoundly,  as  the 
knowledge  of  God  does.  For  there  are  some  acts  of 
knowledge  and  touches  of  God,  wrought  by  Him  in  the 
substance  of  the,  soul,  which  so  enrich  it  that  one  of 
them  is  sufficient,  not  only  to  purge  away  at  once  certain 
imperfections,  which  had  hitherto  resisted  the  efforts  of  a 


208 


THE  ASCENT 


[book  n.] 

whole  life,  but  also  to  fill  the  soul  with  virtues  and 
divine  gifts.  Such  is  the  sweetness  and  deep  delight  ol 
these  touches  of  God,  that  one  of  them  is  more  than  a 
recompense  for  all  the  sufferings  of  this  life,  however 
great  their  number  They  render  the  soul  so  generous 
and  so  courageous  in  the  endurance  of  afflictions  for 
God,  tnat  it  becomes  a  special  pain  to  see  its  tribula¬ 
tions  diminished. 

7.  Now  the  soul  can  never  ascend  to  the  height  of  this 
knowledge  by  any  reflections  or  imagination,  because  it 
transcends  all  these,  and  so  God  effects  it  without  the 
co-operation  of  the  soul.  Sometimes,  when  the  soul 
least  thinks  of  it,  and  when  it  least  desires  it,  God 
touches  it  divinely,  causing  certain  recollections  of  Him¬ 
self.  Sometimes,  too,  the  divine  touches  are  sudden, 
occurring  even  while  the  soul  is  occupied  with  something 
else,  and  that  occasionally  of  trifling  moment.  They 
are  also  so  sensible  and  efficacious,  that  at  times  they 
make  not  only  the  soul,  but  the  body  also,  to  tremble. 
At  other  times  they  come  gently,  without  any  agitation 
whatever,  accompanied  by  a  deep  sense  of  delight  and 
spiritual  refreshing. 

8.  On  other  occasions,  they  come  at  the  hearing  or  ut¬ 
terance  of  a  word,  whether  taken  from  the  Holy  Scripture 
or  elsewhere.  But  they  are  not  always  equally  sensible 
and  efficacious,  for  they  are  very  often  exceedingly 
slight ;  but  however  slight  they  may  be,  one  of  these 
recollections  and  touches  of  God  is  more  profitable  to 
the  soul  than  any  other  knowledge  of,  or  meditation  on, 
the  creatures  and  works  of  God.  And  as  this  knowledge 
is  communicated  suddenly,  and  independently  of  the 


[CHAP.  XXVI.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL.  209 

will,  the  soul  must  not  strive  to  receive  it,  nor  strive  not 
to  receive  it,  but  be  humble  and  resigned  ;  for  God  will 
do  His  own  work,  how  and  when  He  will.  I  do  not  say 
that  the  soul  is  to  conduct  itself  negatively  here,  as  in 
the  case  of  the  other  apprehensions  ;  because  the  divine 
touches  are  a  part  of  the  union,  to  which  I  would  direct 
the  soul,  and  for  attaining  unto  which  I  teach  it  to  with¬ 
draw  and  detach  itself  from  all  besides.  The  means  by 
which  God  effects  this  great  work  must  be  humility  and 
patient  suffering  for  love  of  Him,  writh  resignation,  and 
indifference  as  to  all  reward.  These  graces  are  not 
bestowed  on  the  soul  which  cleaves  to  anything  of  its 
own,  inasmuch  as  they  are  wrought  by  an  especial  love 
of  God  towards  the  soul,  which  also  loves  Him  in  perfect 
detachment  and  pure  disinterestedness.  This  is  the 
meaning  of  those  words  of  our  Lord,  c  He  that  loveth 
Me  shall  be  loved  of  My  Father:  and  I  will  love  him, 
and  will  manifest  Myself  to  him.’*  These  words  refer 
to  this  knowledge  and  these  touches,  of  which  I  am 
speaking,  and  which  God  manifests  to  the  soul  that 
truly  loves  him. 

9.  The  second  kind  of  knowledge,  or  of  visions  of  in¬ 
terior  truths,  is  very  different  from  this,  being  of  things 
greatly  lower  than  God.  It  includes  the  perception  of  the 
truth  of  things  in  themselves,  of  actions  and  events  in  the 
world.  Such  is  the  nature  of  this  knowledge,  whenever 
it  is  given,  that  it  compels  assent,  without  regard  to  any 
assertion  on  the  part  of  others ;  even  if  the  matter  be 
told  otherwise,  the  soul  is  unable  to  assent  interiorly  to 
that  account,  though  it  may  do  violence  to  itself  for  that 

*  St.  John  xiv.  21. 


210 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.  1 

end.  The  mind  perceives  something  else  in  that  which 
had  been  spiritually  presented  to  it,  and  sees  it,  as  it 
were,  clearly.  This  may  belong  to  the  spirit  of  prophecy, 
or  to  that  gift  which  St.  Paul  calls  ‘  the  discerning  of 
spirits.’  *  Still,  though  the  soul  may  hold  what  it  per¬ 
ceives  to  be  certain  and  true,  it  must  not  on  that  account 
refuse  belief  and  obedience  to  its  spiritual  director, 
though  his  counsels  plainly  contradict  the  impressions 
received.  This  must  be  done  in  order  that  the  soul  may 
be  directed  in  faith  to  the  divine  union,  towards  which  it 
should  journey  by  believing  rather  than  by  under¬ 
standing. 

10.  The  Holy  Scriptures  furnish  clear  evidence  of  both 
the  one  and  the  other.  The  particular  knowledge  of 
things  is  thus  spoken  of  by  the  wise  man  :  ‘  He  hath 
given  me  the  true  knowledge  of  the  things  that  are  :  to 
know  the  disposition  of  the  whole  world  and  the  virtues 
of  the  elements.  The  beginning  and  ending,  and  midst 
of  the  times  ;  the  alterations  of  their  courses,  and  the 
changes  of  seasons ;  the  revolutions  of  the  year,  and  the 
dispositions  of  the  stars  ;  the  natures  of  living  creatures 
and  the  rage  of  wild  beasts;  the  force  of  winds,  and 
reasonings  of  men  ;  the  diversities  of  plants,  and  the 
virtues  of  roots ;  and  all  such  things  as  are  hid  and  not 
foreseen,  I  have  learned  :  for  wisdom,  which  is  the  worker 
of  all  things,  taught  me.’  t  And  though  this  knowledge 
of  all  things,  which  the  wise  man  says  he  had  received 
from  God,  was  infused  and  general,  the  passage  before 
us  is  sufficient  evidence  for  all  the  particular  knowledge 
which  God  infuses  into  souls  supernaturally,  according  to 

t  Wisd.  vii.  17,  2:. 


I  Cor.  xii.  10. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


211 


[CHAP.  XXVI.] 

His  good  pleasure  :  not  that  He  gives  a  general  habit  of 
knowledge,  as  He  gave  to  Solomon,  but  that  He  reveals 
occasionally  certain  truths  concerning  those  matters  ol 
which  the  wise  man  is  speaking  here. 

11.  Though  our  Lord,  it  is  true,  infuses  into  many  souls 
habits  of  knowledge  relating  to  many  things,  still  He 
does  not  infuse  them  so  generally  as  in  the  case  of 
Solomon.  There  is  a  difference  like  that  between  the 
gifts,  mentioned  by  St.  Paul,  which  God  distributes ; 
among  these  are  wisdom,  knowledge,  faith,  prophecy, 
discerning  of  spirits,  divers  kinds  of-  tongues,  and  inter¬ 
pretation  of  speeches  :  ‘  To  one  indeed,  by  the  Spirit,  is 
given  the  word  of  wisdom  ....  and  to  another  the 
word  of  knowledge,  ...  to  another  faith,  ...  to  another 
prophecy,  to  another  the  discerning  of  spirits,  to  another 
divers  kinds  of  tongues,  to  another  interpretation  of 
speeches.’  *  All  these  kinds  of  knowledge  are  infused 
graces  gratis  data,  gratuitously  given  of  God  to  whom 
He  will,  as  He  gave  them  to  the  holy  prophets  and  the 
Apostles,  and  to  other  saints. 

12.  But  over  and  above  these  gifts,  or  graces  gratis  data , 
perfect  persons,  or  those  who  are  advancing  to  perfection, 
very  frequently  receive  the  knowledge  of  things  present 
or  distant,  in  a  certain  illumination  of  their  purified  and 
enlightened  mind.  The  following  words  in  the  book  ol 
Proverbs  are  applicable  in  this  sense  :  ‘  As  the  faces  ol 
them  that  look  therein,  shine  in  the  water,  so  the  hearts 
of  men  are  laid  open  to  the  prudent.’  f-  This  is  to  be 
understood  of  those  who  have  attained  to  the  science  of 

*  I  Cor.  xii.  8,  XO.  +  Prov.  xx-vil.  19. 

02 


212 


THE  ASCENT 


[book  n.] 

the  saints,  in  Holy  Scripture  called  prudence.*  In  the 
same  way,  too,  spiritual  persons  understand  other  thing's, 
though  not  always  when  they  will :  for  this  gift  is  theirs 
only  who  have  the  habit  of  this  knowledge,  and  even 
they  sometimes  are  at  fault,  because  all  this  depends  on 
the  good  pleasure  of  God. 

13.  Those  persons,  whose  minds  are  purified,  ascertain 
with  great  facility,  some  better  than  others,  what  is 
passing  in  the  hearts  of  men,  their  inclinations  and 
their  capacities  ;  and  this  from  certain  outward  signs, 
however  slight  they  may  be,  such  as  expressions, 
motions,  or  gestures.  As  the  devil,  being  a  spirit,  can 
do  this,  so  also  the  spiritual  man,  according  to  the 
words  of  the  Apostle:  ‘The  spiritual  man  judgeth  all 
things,’ f  and  ‘  the  Spirit  searcheth  all  things,  even  the 
deep  things  of  God.’J  Therefore,  though  spiritual  men 
cannot,  in  the  order  of  nature,  know  the  thoughts  and 
intentions  of  others,  yet  by  supernatural  enlightenment, 
through  certain  signs,  they  may  well  do  so.  And 
though  they  may  be  often  deceived  in  their  interpre¬ 
tation  of  these  signs,  yet  for  the  most  part  they  will 
be  correct.  But  we  are  not  to  rely  on  any  of  these 
means,  for  the  devil  may  insinuate  herein  with  exceeding 
cunning,  as  we  shall  presently  see,  and  in  consequence 
of  this,  we  must  renounce  this  method  and  form  of 
knowledge. 

14.  Spiritual  persons  are  able  to  see,  though  far  away, 
what  other  men  are  doing.  We  have  an  instance  of 
this  in  our  holy  father  Eliseus,  who  saw  his  servant 
Giezi  hide  the  gifts  he  had  received  from  Naaman. 

*  lb.  ix.  io,  Scientia  sanctorum  prudentia.  t  I  Cor.  ii.  15.  J  lb.  io. 


213 


[CHAP.  XXVI.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

Was  not  my  heart  present,'  saith  the  prophet,  ‘when 
the  man  turned  back  from  his  chariot  to  meet  thee  ?’* 
Eliseus  saw  in  spirit  the  act,  as  if  he  had  been  present 
on  the  spot.  The  same  prophet  saw  also  what  passed 
in  the  council  of  the  king  of  Syria,  and  revealed  it  to 
the  king  of  Israel,  thereby  frustrating  the  devices  of 
the  former.  So  when  the  king  of  Syria  saw  that  his 
plans  became  known  to  his  enemy,  he  complained  to 
his  people,  saying  :  ‘  Why  do  you  not  tell  me  who  it 
is  that  betrays  me  to  the  king  of  Israel  ?  And  one  of 
his  servants  said,  No  one,  my  lord  O  king ;  but  Eliseus 
the  prophet  that  is  in  Israel,  telleth  the  king  of  Israel 
all  the  words  that  thou  speakest  in  thy  privy 
chamber.’f 

15.  Both  the  one  and  the  other  kind  of  this  knowledge 
of  events  are  granted  to  the  soul  passive,  without  effort 
on  its  part.  For  it  sometimes  occurs  that  a  person, 
while  not  thinking  at  all  of  the  matter,  receives  in  spirit 
a  vivid  preception  of  what  he  hears  or  reads,  and  that 
with  greater  distinctness  than  the  words  involve;  and 
sometimes,  too,  even  when  he  knows  not  the  language 
to  which  the  words  belong,  the  knowledge  of  the  matter 
is  conveyed  to  him  without  his  being  able  to  explain 
the  terms  that  imply  it. 

16.  As  to  the  delusions  which  the  devil  is  able  tc  effect, 
and  does  effect,  with  reference  to  this  knowledge,  I  have 
much  to  say.  Those  delusions  are  very  great  and  very 
difficult  of  detection  ;  for  the  devil,  by  way  of  suggestion, 
is  able  to  represent  much  intellectual  knowledge  to  the 
soul,  by  the  use  of  the  bodily  senses,  and  is  able  to 

*  4  Kings  V.  30.  +  lb.  vi.  xi,  12. 


214 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.  J 

establish  that  knowledge  so  firmly  as  to  make  it  appear 
true ;  and  if  that  soul  be  not  humble  and  cautious,  he 
will  no  doubt  cause  it  to  believe  an  infinity  of  lies.  For 
the  suggestions  of  the  devil  offer  great  violence  to  the 
soul  at  times,  especially  because  the  senses  are  weak  ; 
and  he  plays  on  that  weakness  with  such  force,  per¬ 
suasiveness,  and  determination,  that  much  prayer  and 
repeated  efforts  become  necessary  on  the  part  of  the  soul, 
in  order  to  shake  off  his  influence. 

17.  He  is  wont  occasionally  to  reveal,  falsely,  but  with 
great  distinctness,  the  sins  of  others,  evil  consciences, 
and  corrupt  souls,  with  a  view  to  detraction,  and  to 
induce  him,  to  whom  the  revelation  is  made,  to  publish 
the  sins  in  question,  so  that  other  sins  may  be  added  to 
them.  He  stirs  a  false  zeal,  deluding  him,  in  whom  he 
stirs  it,  into  the  belief  that  these  revelations  are  intended 
to  lead  him  to  pray  for  the  souls  of  those  whom  he  thus 
traduces.  It  is  indeed  true  that  God  sometimes  repre¬ 
sents  to  holy  souls  the  necessities  of  their  neighbours, 
that  they  may  pray  for  them,  or  relieve  them.  He 
revealed  to  Jeremias  the  weakness  of  Baruch,  that  he 
might  advise  him  therein.*  But  most  frequently  it  is 
the  devil  that  doeth  this,  and  that  falsely,  in  order  that 
persons  may  be  accused  of  sin,  and  afflicted ;  of  this  we 
have  many  proofs.  At  other  times,  he  communicates 
with  much  certainty  other  kinds  of  knowledge,  and 
induces  men  to  believe  them. 

18.  All  such  knowledge  as  this,  whether  it  comes  from 
God  or  not,  can  be  but  of  little  profit  to  the  soul  in  the 
aray  of  perfection,  if  it  trusts  to  it :  yea,  rather,  if  it  is 

*  Jerem.  xlv. 


215 


j  CITAP.  XXVI.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

not  careful  to  reject  it,  it  will  not  only  hinder  it  on  its 
road,  but  will  bring  upon  it  great  evil,  and  cause  it  to 
fall  into  many  delusions  ;  for  all  the  dangers  and  incon¬ 
veniences  of  the  supernatural  apprehensions,  and  many 
more,  are  to  be  found  here.  I  shall,  therefore,  not 
enlarge  further  on  this  point ;  seeing  that  I  have  already 
given  sufficient  instruction  on  this  matter,  and  shall  say 
but  this,  that  the  penitent  must  be  careful  to  reject  this 
knowledge,  walking  with  God  in  the  way  of  knowing 
nothing,  and  to  give  account  to  his  director  of  it  all,  and 
abide  constantly  by  his  advice. 

19.  Let  the  director  guide  his  penitent  quickly  past  this, 
and  not  suffer  him  to  dwell  upon  it,  because  it  is  of  no 
help  to  him  on  the  road  to  the  divine  union.  For  as  I 
have  said  of  those  things  which  are  passively  wrought  in 
the  soul,  the  fruit  which  God  wills,  remains.  I  do  not, 
therefore,  think  it  requisite  to  describe  the  effects  of  this 
knowledge,  whether  true  or  false,  for  my  task  in  such  a 
case  would  be  wearisome  and  endless.  The  effects  in 
question  cannot  be  described  within  reasonable  limits, 
for  as  the  knowledge  is  manifold,  so  are  the  effects  of  it. 
The  true  knowledge  brings  forth  good  issues,  tending  to 
good;  and  the  false  knowledge  evil,  tending  to  evil. 
When  I  say  that  this  knowledge  is  to  be  rejected,  and 
how  it  is  to  be  done,  I  have  said  enough. 


216 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II. J 


CHAPTER  XXVII. 

Of  the  second  kind  of  revelations,  the  disclosure  of  secrets  and 
hidden  mysteries.  How  they  may  subserve  and  hinder  the 
divine  union.  Of  the  many  delusions  of  the  devil  incident 
to  them. 

I  EXPLAINED  the  second  kind  of  revelations  to  be  the 
manifestation  of  secrets  and  hidden  mysteries.  This 
again  is  twofold.  One  relates  to  God  Himself,  and 
includes  the  revelation  of  the  mystery  of  the  Most  Holy 
Trinity  and  the  divine  unity.  The  second  relates  to  God 
in  His  operations,  and  includes  all  the  other  articles  of 
the  holy  catholic  faith,  and  the  truths  explicitly  resulting 
therefrom.  It  includes  also  a  great  number  of  prophetic 
revelations,  promises,  and  threatenings  of  God,  and  other 
matters  which  have  already  been  accomplished,  and 
which  shall  hereafter  occur.  We  may  also  refer  to  this 
second  kind  of  revelations,  many  other  particular  events 
which  God  ordinarily  reveals,  as  well  concerning  the 
world  in  general,  as  also  concerning  particular  kingdoms, 
provinces,  states,  families,  and  persons.  We  have 
abundant  evidence  of  all  this  in  the  Holy  Scriptures, 
especially  in  the  books  of  the  prophets,  where  we  meet 
with  revelations  of  all  kinds. 

2.  But  as  this  matter  is  perfectly  plain  and  clear,  I  will 
not  spend  my  time  in  adducing  the  proofs  ;  but  content 
myself  with  saying,  that  these  revelations  are  not  always 
expressed  in  words,  for  God  makes  them  in  many  and 
divers  ways.  Sometimes  He  makes  them  by  words 
alone,  and  sometimes  by  signs  alone,  figures,  images, 
9-iid  resemblances,  and  other  times  by  both  signs  and 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


217 


[CHAP.  XXVII.] 

words  together ;  as  we  see  in  the  prophets,  particularly 
in  the  Apocalypse,  where  we  find  not  only  the  kinds  of 
revelations  here  spoken  of,  but  also  the  divers  modes  by 
which  they  are  made. 

3.  God  still  in  our  day  makes  revelations  of  the  second 
kind.  He  reveals  to  some  individuals  how  long  they 
shall  live,  what  trials  they  have  to  endure,  or  what  will 
befall  such  and  such  a  person,  such  or  such  a  kingdom. 
And  even  with  regard  to  the  mysteries  of  our  faith,  He  is 
wont  to  reveal  the  truths  thereof  by  a  special  light  and 
meaning.  This,  however,  is  not  properly  a  revelation, 
because  the  matter  has  been  already  revealed,  but  rather 
a  manifestation  and  explanation  of  it. 

4.  In  those  things,  therefore,  which  we  call  revelations 
—I  am  not  now  using  the  word  as  relating  to  the  revela¬ 
tion  of  the  mysteries  of  the  faith— the  devil  may  interfere 
on  a  great  scale.  For  as  these  revelations  are  generally 
expressed  by  words,  figures,  and  similitudes,  the  devil 
may  also  imitate  the  same  most  easily.  If,  however,  in 
the  first  and  second  kind,  in  that  which  touches  the 
faith,  any  new  or  different  revelation  be  made,  we  are  in 
no  wise  to  give  heed  to  it ;  no,  not  even  if  we  learned  it 
from  an  angel  from  heaven.  ‘  Though  we  or  an  angel 
from  heaven,’  saith  the  apostle,  ‘  preach  a  gospel  to  you 
beside  that  which  you  have  received,  let  him  be 
anathema.’  *  No  new  revelations  are  to  be  admitted  in 
the  matter  of  that  once  made,  beyond  what  may  be  con¬ 
sistent  with  it,  lest  we  should  go  astray  by  admitting 
contradictions,  and  stain  the  soul,  which  should  keep  the 
faith.  We  must  bring  the  understanding  into  captivity, 

*  Galat.  i.  8. 


218 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II. J 

and  cleave  in  simplicity  to  the  faith  and  teaching  of  the 
Church,  ‘  for  faith,’  saith  S.  Paul,  ‘  cometh  by  hearing.’  * 
No  man  will  give  heed  or  credit  easily  to  new  reve¬ 
lations,  unless  he  has  a  mind  to  be  deceived. 

5.  The  devil  with  a  view  to  deceive  mankind,  and 
propagate  delusions  in  the  world,  begins  by  publishing 
truth,  and  what  is  likely  to  be  true,  in  order  to  gain  our 
confidence.  He  resembles  herein  a  cobbler,  who  with 
the  sharp  bristle  at  the  end  of  his  thread  penetrates  the 
leather,  and  then  draws  after  it  the  soft  and  waxened 
part,  which  never  could  have  penetrated  the  leather  by 
itself,  without  being  preceded  by  the  hard  bristle.  Great 
circumspection  is  necessary  here ;  for  though  it  were 
true  that  the  soul  ran  no  risk  of  delusion,  yet  is  it  more 
becoming  that  it  should  not  desire  clear  knowledge,  so 
that  it  may  preserve  the  merit  of  its  faith  in  its  purity 
and  integrity,  and  come  in  this  night  of  the  under¬ 
standing  to  the  divine  light  of  union 

6.  It  is  of  the  utmost  moment  for  us,  when  a  new  reve¬ 
lation  is  brought  to  us,  to  close  the  eyes  of  our  under¬ 
standing,  and  rest  on  the  ancient  prophecies.  The 
Apostle  himself,  though  he  had  seen  the  glories  of  Tabor, 
writes,  ‘We  have  the  more  firm  prophetical  word, 
whereunto  you  do  well  to  attend.’  f  Though  the  vision 
which  we  saw  on  the  mount  was  true,  yet  the  more 
certain  and  more  firm  is  the  word  of  revealed  prophecy, 
on  which  you  do  well  to  rest  your  souls. 

7.  If  it  be  true,  for  these  reasons,  that  we  ought  not  to 
regard  with  curiosity  any  new  revelations  on  the  subject- 

matter  of  the  faith  ;  how  much  more  ought  we  also,  not 
*  Rorj>.  x.  17,  t  2,  S.  Pet.  i.  19. 


219 


[CHAP.  XXVII.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

to  admit,  or  heed,  other  revelations  relating  to  other 
matters  ?  It  is  in  these  that  the  devil  in  general  is  so 
strong,  that  I  think  it  impossible  to  escape  his  delusions 
in  many  of  them,  if  we  do  not  strive  to  repel  them ; 
such  appearance  of  truth  and  certainty  does  the  devil 
throw  around  them.  He  unites  together  so  many  pro¬ 
babilities,  and  all  so  consistently  arranged,  in  order  to 
gain  credit,  and  roots  them  so  firmly  in  the  senses  and 
the  imagination,  that  the  subject  of  them  believes  them 
without  any  hesitation  whatever.  He  makes  the  soul 
trust  to  them  so  completely,  that  if  it  were  not  humble, 
it  could  scarcely  be  persuaded  of  their  falsehood  and 
disentangled  from  his  delusions. 

8.  For  this  cause,  therefore,  the  pure,  simple,  cautious, 
and  humble  soul  ought  to  resist  and  reject  these  revela¬ 
tions  and  other  visions ,  for  it  is  not  necessary  to  seek 
them,  yea  rather  it  is  necessary  to  reject  them,  if  we  are 
to  attain  to  the  union  of  love.  This  is  the  meaning  of 
Solomon  when  he  said,  ‘  What  needeth  a  man  to  seek 
things  that  are  above  him  ?’*  That  is,  it  is  not  neces¬ 
sary  for  perfection,  by  supernatural  and  extraordinary 
ways,  to  seek  supernatural  things  which  are  beyond  our 
reach. 

9.  Having,  in  the  nineteenth  and  twentieth  chapters, 
replied  to  the  objections  that  may  be  brought  forward,  I 
now  refer  the  reader  thereto,  and  conclude  the  dis¬ 
cussion  of  revelations  of  this  sort :  it  being  sufficient  to 
have  said  that  the  soul  ought  to  be  very  prudent  in  the 
matter,  that  it  may  walk  in  pureness,  without  illusions 
in  the  night  of  faith,  to  the  divine  union. 

*  Eccles.  vii.  I. 


220 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.] 


CHAPTER  XXVIII. 

Of  the  interior  locutions  which  occur  supernaturally.  Their 

different  kinds. 

It  is  necessary  for  the  reader  to  keep  in  mind  continually 
the  end  and  object  which  I  have  in  view — namely,  the 
direction  of  the  soul,  through  all  its  natural  and  super¬ 
natural  apprehensions,  without  illusion  or  perplexity,  in 
pureness  of  faith  to  the  divine  union  with  God — that  he 
may  perceive  that  I  am  not  too  concise ;  though  I  do 
not  enter  into  divisions  and  subdivisions  of  the  subject, 
while  treating  of  the  apprehensions  of  the  soul,  as, 
perhaps,  the  understanding  might  require.  On  the 
whole,  I  think  I  have  furnished  sufficient  advice,  in¬ 
formation,  and  warning,  to  enable  the  soul,  by  a 
prudent  behaviour,  in  all  these  interior  and  exterior 
matters,  to  make  progress  onwards.  This  is  the  reason 
why  I  have  so  soon  dismissed  the  subject  of  prophecy 
like  the  rest,  having  at  the  same  time  much  to  say  of 
each  kind,  according  to  their  distinctive  characteristics, 
which  are  so  many  that  I  should  never  accomplish  my 
task.  I  am  satisfied  that  I  have  said  enough  about  them, 
and  that  I  have  given  the  true  doctrine  and  the  requisite 
cautions  with  reference  to  them,  and  to  every  other 
matter  of  a  like  nature  that  may  pass  within  the  soul. 

2.  I  shall  pursue  the  same  course  with  the  third  kind  ot 
apprehensions,  the  supernatural  locutions  of  spiritual 
men,  which  are  effected  without  the  instrumentality  or 
the  bodily  senses.  These  locutions,  notwithstanding 
their  variety,  may  be  comprised  under  three  designations; 


221 


("CHAP.  XXIX.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

successive,  formal,  and  substantial  words.  By  successive 
words  I  mean  certain  words  and  considerations  which 
the  mind,  self-recollected,  forms  and  fashions  within 
itself.  By  formal,  I  mean  certain  distinct  and  definite 
words,  which  the  mind  receives  not  from  itself  but  from 
a  third  person,  sometimes  while  in  a  state  of  self-recol¬ 
lection,  and  at  other  times  while  not.  By  substantial, 
I  mean  other  words  which  are  also  formally  in  the  mind, 
sometimes  while  it  is  recollected,  and  sometimes  while  it 
is  not.  These  words  produce  an  effect  in  the  innermost 
soul  that  substance  and  power  of  which  they  are  the 
expression.  I  shall  speak  of  these  in  the  order  I  have 
named  them. 


CHAPTER  XXIX. 

Of  the  first  kind  of  words  formed  by  the  mind  self-recollected 
The  causes  of  them.  The  advantages  and  disadvantages 
of  them. 

At  all  times  when  successive  words  take  place,  it  is  when 
the  mind  is  collected  and  absorbed  by  some  particular 
subject;  and  while  attentively  considering'  the  matter 
which  occupies  its  thoughts,  it  proceeds  from  one  part  of 
it  to  another,  puts  words  and  reasonings  together  so 
much  to  the  purpose,  and  with  such  facility  and  clearness 
discovers  by  reflection  things  it  knew  not  before,  that  it 
seems  to  itself  as  if  it  was  not  itself  which  did  so,  but 
some  third  person  which  addressed  itinteriorly,  reasoning, 
answering,  and  informing.  And  in  truth  there  is  good 
ground  for  such  a  notion  ;  the  mind  then  reasons  with 
itself  as  one  man  does  with  another,  and  to  a  certain 


222 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.J 

extent  it  is  so.  For  though  it  be  the  mind  itself  that 
thus  reasons,  yet  the  Holy  Ghost  very  often  assists  it  in 
the  formation  of  these  conceptions,  words,  and  reasonings. 
Thus  the  mind  addresses  itself  to  itself  as  if  to  some 
other  person. 

2.  For  as  the  understanding  is  then  united,  and  intently 
occupied,  with  the  truth  of  that  whereof  it  thinks,  and 
as  the  Holy  Spirit  is  also  united  with  it ;  the  under¬ 
standing  in  this  communion  with  the  Divine  Spirit, 
through  the  channel  of  that  particular  truth,  forms 
successively  within  itself  those  other  truths  which  relate 
to  the  matter  before  it;  the  FI oly  Ghost,  the  Teacher, 
opening  the  way  and  giving  light.  This  is  one  way  in 
which  the  Holy  Ghost  teaches  us.  The  understanding, 
being  thus  enlightened  and  instructed  by  the  great 
Teacher,  while  perceiving  these  truths,  forms  at  the 
same  time  the  words  in  question  about  those  truths  which 
it  receives  from  another  source.  We  may  apply  to  this 
the  saying  of  Isaac,  ‘  The  voice,  indeed,  is  the  voice  ol 
Jacob  ;  but  the  hands  are  the  hands  of  Esau.’  *  He  who 
is  in  this  state  cannot  believe  that  the  words  and  expres¬ 
sions  do  not  proceed  from  some  third  person,  not  knowing 
how  easily  the  understanding  can  form  words  about 
conceptions  and  truths  which  it  derives  from  another 
person. 

3.  Now,  though  it  is  true  that  there  can  be  no  illusion  in 
this  communication,  and  in  the  enlightenment  of  the 
understanding ;  still  illusions  may,  and  do,  frequently 
occur  in  the  formal  words  and  reasonings  which  the 
understanding  forms  about  them.  Inasmuch  as  the  light 

*  Genes,  xxvii.  22. 


tCHAP.  XXIX.] 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


223 


then  bestowed  is  most  subtile  and  spiritual,  so  much  so 
that  it  is  beyond  the  capacity  of  the  understanding,  the 
result  is  that  the  understanding  in  its  own  strength  forms 
these  reasonings  which  in  consequence  are  often  false, 
apparently  true,  or  imperfect.  When  a  man  has  the  clue 
of  a  true  principle  and  then  deals  with  it  by  his  own 
abilities,  or  in  the  ignorance  of  his  weak  understanding, 
it  is  an  easy  thing  for  such  an  one  to  fall  into  delusions, 
and  that  too,  in  this  way,  as  if  a  third  person  were 
addressing  him.  I  have  known  one  who  had  these 
successive  locutions,  but  who,  on  the  subject  of  the  Most 
Holy  Sacrament  of  the  Eucharist,  amid  some  most  true, 
had  others  full  of  error. 

4.  I  am  terrified  by  what  passes  among  us  in  these  days. 
Anyone,  who  has  barely  begun  to  meditate,  if  he 
becomes  conscious  of  these  locutions  during  his  self¬ 
recollection,  pronounces  them  forthwith  to  be  the  work 
of  God,  and,  considering  them  to  be  so,  says,  God  has 
spoken  to  me,  or,  I  have  had  an  answer  from  God. 
But  it  is  not  true  :  such  an  one  has  been  only  speaking 
to  himself.  Besides,  the  affection  and  desire  for  these 
locutions,  which  men  encourage,  cause  them  to  reply  to 
themselves,  and  then  to  imagine  that  God  has  spoken. 
The  consequence  is  that  they  fall  into  great  disorders,  if 
they  do  not  restrain  themselves,  and  if  their  spiritual 
director  does  not  command  them  to  abstain  from  these 
interior  discourses  ;  for  the  fruit  of  them  is  foolishness 
and  impureness  of  soul,  and  not  the  spirit  of  humility 
and  mortification.  They  think  that  these  locutions  are 
great  things,  that  God  has  been  speaking  to  them,  when 
in  truth  all  was  little  more  than  nothing,  or  nothing,  or 


224 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.] 

less  than  nothing.  For  what  is  that  worth  which  does 
not  beget  humility  and  charity,  mortification,  and  holy 
simplicity  and  silence  ?  These  locutions,  then,  may 
prove  a  great  hindrance  to  the  divine  union,  because 
they  lead  astray  the  soul,  that  thinks  much  of  them, 
from  the  abyss  of  faith,  where  the  understanding  ought 
to  abide  in  obscurity,  and  in  obscurity  advance  by  faith 
in  love,  and  not  by  much  reasoning 

5  You  will  object,  and  say,  Why  must  the  understand¬ 
ing  deny  itself  in  these  truths,  seeing  thatthe  Spirit  of  God 
enlightens  it  in  them,  and  that  they  cannot  for  that 
reason  proceed  from  the  evil  one  ?  I  answer,  the  Holy 
Ghost  enlightens  the  recollected  understanding,  and  in 
proportion  to  its  recollection  ;  and,  as  there  can  be  no 
greater  recollection  of  the  understanding  than  in  faith, 
the  Holy  Ghost  will  not  enlighten  it  in  any  other  way 
more  than  in  that  of  faith.  For  the  more  pure  and  clean 
the  soul  in  the  perfection  of  a  living  faith  the  greater  is 
the  infusion  of  charity,  and  the  greater  the  charity  the 
greater  the  illumination,  and  the  more  abundant  the 
graces  Though  it  be  true  that  in  this  illumination  some 
light  is  given  to  the  soul,  yet  the  light  of  faith,  wherein 
nothing  is  clearly  seen,  is  in  kind  as  different  from  it  as 
refined  gold  from  base  metal,  and  in  quantity  as  the  sea 
exceeds  a  drop  of  water.  In  one  way  the  soul  r& 
ceives  the  knowledge  of  one,  two,  or  three  truths  ;  but 
in  the  other  the  Wisdom  of  God  generally,  which  is  His 
Son,  in  one  simple  universal  knowledge  communicated  to 
the  soul  by  faith. 

6-  If,  again,  you  object  and  say  that  this  is  all  good, 
and  that  it  hinders  not  the  other ;  my  answer  is,  that  it 


[CHAP.  XX.TX.] 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


2  25 


hinders  very  much  if  the  soul  makes  any  account  of  it ; 
for  by  doing  so  the  soul  occupies  itself  with  evident 
matters  and  of  little  moment,  which  hinder  the  com¬ 
munication  of  the  abyss  ot  faith,  wherein  God  super- 
naturally  and  secretly  teaches  the  soul,  and  trains  it  up, 
in  a  way  it  knows  not,  in  virtues  and  in  graces.  We 
shall  never  profit  by  these  successive  locutions  if  we 
deliberately  contemplate  them  with  the  understanding, 
for  if  we  do  this  we  shall  lose  all  the  good  of  them,  as  it 
is  written,  ‘  Turn  away  thy  eyes  from  me,  for  they  have 
made  me  flee  away.’*  We  must  therefore,  simply  and 
sincerely,  without  applying  the  understanding  to  the 
matter  of  these  supernatural  communications,  direct  the 
will  lovingly  to  God,  because  it  is  by  love  that  these 
blessings  are  bestowed,  and  that  in  greater  abundance 
than  before.  If  the  powers  of  the  understanding,  or  of  our 
other  faculties,  be  actively  applied  to  these  things  which 
are  supernaturally  and  passively  received,  we  shall  find 
that  our  incapacity  and  ignorance  will  not  reach  them. 
They  will  therefore  be  modified  and  changed,  and  so  we 
shall  of  necessity  incur  the  hazard  of  delusions  while 
forming  these  reasonings  within  ourselves.  This  will 
be  neither  supernatural  itself,  nor  in  any  respect 
resemble  it,  but  it  will  be  something  most  natural  and 
common. 

7.  There  are  some  men  whose  understanding  is  so 
quick  and  penetrating  that  their  conceptions,  when  they 
are  self-recollected,  naturally  proceed  with  great  facility, 
and  form  themselves  into  these  locutions  and  reasonings 
so  clearly  as  to  make  them  think  that  God  is  speaking. 

*  Cant.  vi.  4. 

e 


226 


TIIE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.] 

But  it  is  not  so.  All  this  is  the  work  of  the  under¬ 
standing-,  somewhat  disengaged  from  the  operations  of 
sense ;  for  it  may  do  this  and  even  more  without  any 
supernatural  help  whatever,  by  its  own  natural  light 
This  is  a  state  of  things  of  frequent  occurrence,  and 
many  delude  themselves  into  the  belief  that  they  have 
acquired  the  gift  of  prayer,  and  that  God  converses  with 
them ;  they  write  down,  or  cause  others  to  write  for 
them,  what  they  have  experienced.  And  after  all  it  is 
nothing  :  without  the  substance  of  virtue,  and  serving  to 
no  other  end  than  to  minister  food  to  vanity. 

8.  Let  such  persons  learn  to  disregard  these  locutions, 
and  to  ground  the  will  in  humble  love ;  let  them  practise 
good  works,  and  suffer  patiently,  imitating  the  Son  of 
God,  and  mortifying  themselves  in  all  things  :  this,  and 
not  the  abundance  of  interior  discourses,  is  the  road  unto 
spiritual  good. 

9.  These  interior  successive  locutions  furnish  occasions 
to  the  evil  spirit,  especially  when  persons  have  an  inclina¬ 
tion  or  affection  for  them.  For  when  they  begin  to 
recollect  themselves,  the  devil  offers  to  them  materials 
for  discursive  reflections,  suggesting  thoughts  and 
expressions  to  the  understanding ;  and  then,  having 
deceived  them  by  things  that  appear  to  be  true,  casts 
them  down  to  the  ground.  Such  is  his  dealing  with 
those,  who  have  entered  into  a  compact  with  him,  tacit 
or  expressed.  Thus  he  converses  with  some  heretics, 
especially  with  heresiarchs ;  he  informs  their  under¬ 
standing  with  most  subtle  thoughts  and  reasonings, 
false,  however,  and  erroneous. 

10.  It  appears,  then,  that  these  successive  words  may 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


227 


[CHAP.  XXIX.] 

proceed  from  three  sources :  from  the  Holy  Spirit,  moving 
and  enlightening ;  from  the  natural  light  of  the  under¬ 
standing  ;  and  from  the  evil  spirit  suggesting.  It  will 
be  rather  a  difficult  matter  to  describe  the  signs  and 
tokens,  by  which  it  may  be  known  from  which  of  these 
sources  particular  locutions  proceed,  but  some  general 
notions  may  be  given.  When  the  soul  loves,  and  at  the 
same  time  is  humbly  and  reverently  conscious  of  that 
love,  it  is  a  sign  that  these  locutions  come  from  the 
Holy  Ghost,  Who,  whenever  He  grants  us  these  graces, 
grants  them  through  love.  When  they  come  from  the 
vivacity  and  light -of  the  understanding  only,  it  is  that 
which  affects  them  without  any  operation  of  virtue — 
though  the  will  may  love  naturally  in  the  knowledge  and 
light  of  those  truths— and,  when  the  meditation  is  over, 
the  will  remains  cold,  though  not  inclined  to  vanity  or 
evil,  unless  the  devil  shall  have  tempted  us  anew.  The 
locutions  of  the  Holy  Ghost  cannot  issue  in  this,  for 
when  they  are  over,  the  will  is  usually  affectionately  dis¬ 
posed  towards  God,  and  inclined  to  good,  though  some¬ 
times,  certainly,  the  will  may  be  dry,  even  after  the 
communications  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  God  thus  ordering  it 
for  the  profit  of  particular  souls.  At  other  times,  too, 
the  soul  will  not  be  very  sensible  of  the  operations  or 
motions  of  these  virtues,  and  yet  what  passes  within  will 
have  been  good.  This  is  why  I  have  said  that  it  is 
sometimes  difficult  to  distinguish  one  from  another, 
because  of  the  various  effects  which  they  sometimes 
have.  The  effects  I  have  mentioned  are  the  most 
common,  though  sometimes  more,  and  sometimes  less 
abundant. 


228  the  ascent  [book  ii] 

11.  The  evil  locutions  are  occasionally  hard  to  dis¬ 
tinguish,  for,  though  they  dry  up  the  love  of  God  in  the  will, 
and  incline  men  to  vanity,  self-esteem,  or  complacency : 
still  they  beget  at  times  a  certain  false  humility  and  fervent 
affection  of  the  will  founded  on  self-love,  which  requires 
for  its  detection  great  spirituality  of  mind.  This  the 
devil  brings  about,  the  better  to  conceal  his  presence- 
lie  is  able  perfectly  well  to  produce  tears  by  the 
impressions  he  makes,  and  he  does  so  that  he  may 
inspire  the  soul  with  those  affections,  which  he  desires  to 
excite.  But  he  always  labours  to  move  the  will  so  that 
men  shall  esteem  these  interior  communications,  and 
make  much  account  of  them,  in  order  to  induce  them  to 
give  themselves  up  to  them,  and  occupy  themselves  with 
what  is  not  virtue,  but  rather  an  occasion  of  losing  what 
virtue  they  may  have. 

12.  Let  us,  therefore,  abide  by  this  necessary  caution, 
in  order  to  escape  all  perplexity  and  delusions  ;  never  to 
make  any  account  of  these  locutions,  from  whatever 
source  they  may  come,  but  learn  how  to  direct  our  will 
courageously  to  God  in  the  perfect  fulfilment  of  His  law 
and  holy  counsels,  which  is  the  wisdom  of  the  saints, 
content  with  the  knowledge  of  those  truths  and  mysteries, 
in  simplicity  and  sincerity,  as  the  Church  sets  them 
forth,  for  these  are  sufficient  to  inflame  our  will ;  without 
thrusting  ourselves  into  deep  and  curious  investigations, 
where  the  absence  of  danger  is  a  miracle.  It  was  with 
reference  to  this  that  St.  Paul  exhorts  us  ‘  not  to  be  more 
wise  than  it  behoveth  to  be  wise.’*  Let  this  suffice  on 
the  subject  of  successive  words. 


*  Rom.  xii.  3. 


[CHAP.  XXX.] 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


229 


CHAPTER  XXX. 

Of  interior  words  formally  wrought  in  a  supernatural  way.  Of 
the  dangers  incident  thereto ;  and  a  necessary  caution 
against  delusions. 

The  second  kind  of  interior  locutions  are  formal  words, 
uttered  in  the  mind  sometimes  supernaturally,  without 
the  intervention  of  the  senses,  whether  in  a  state  of 
recollection  or  not.  I  call  these  formal  words,  because 
the  mind  formally  perceives  they  are  spoken  by  a  third 
person,  independently  of  its  own  operations.  For  this 
reason  they  are  very  different  from  those  of  which  I  have 
just  spoken.  They  differ  from  them,  not  only  because 
they  take  place  without  any  effort  of  the  mind,  but  some¬ 
times  even  when  the  mind  is  not  recollected,  and  far 
from  thinking  of  what  is  uttered  within  it.  This  is  not 
so  in  the  case  of  successive  words,  for  these  always 
relate  to  the  matter  which  then  occupies  the  mind.  The 
locutions  of  which  I  am  now  speaking  are  sometimes 
perfectly  formed,  sometimes  not,  being  very  often,  as  it 
were,  conceptions,  by  which  something  is  said,  at  one  time 
in  the  way  of  an  answer,  at  another  by  another  mode  of 
speaking.  Sometimes  it  is  one  word,  at  another  two  or 
more,  and  occasionally  successive  words,  as  in  the  former 
case  :  for  they  continue  in  the  way  of  instruction  to  the 
soul,  or  of  discussion  with  it.  Still  all  takes  place 
without  the  active  participation  of  the  mind,  for  it  is  as 
if  another  person  were  then  speaking,  as  we  read  in 
Daniel,  who  says  that  an  angel  instructed  him  and 
spoke.  This  was  formal  successive  reasoning  and  in- 


THE  ASCENT 


230 


[BOOK  II.] 


struction  :  the  angel  says,  ‘  I  am  now  come  forth  to 
teach  thee.’* 

2.  When  these  locutions  are  no  more  than  formal,  the 
effect  on  the  mind  is  not  great.  They  are  in  general 
sent  only  to  instruct  and  enlighten  us  on  a  particular 
subject;  and  it  is  not  necessary  for  this  purpose,  that 
they  should  have  another  effect  different  from  that,  for 
which  they  are  sent.  And  so  whenever  they  come  from 
God,  they  effect  their  object  in  the  soul ;  for  they  render 
it  ready  to  accomplish  what  is  commanded,  and  enlighten 
it  so  that  it  understands  what  it  hears.  They  do  not 
always  remove  the  repugnance  which  the  soul  feels,  but 
rather  increase  it ;  and  this  is  the  operation  of  God,  the 
end  of  which  is  the  more  perfect  instruction,  humiliation, 
and  profit  of  the  soul.  This  repugnance  is  in  general 
the  result,  when  great  and  noble  deeds  are  commanded ; 
and  there  is  greater  promptitude  and  facility,  when  vile 
and  humiliating  things  are  enjoined.  Thus  when  Moses 
was  commanded  to  go  unto  Pharao,  and  deliver  the 
people  of  Israel,  he  felt  so  great  a  repugnance  for  his 
task,  that  God  was  obliged  to  command  him  three  times, 
and  show  him  signs.  And  after  all,  this  was  not  sufficient 
until  God  gave  him  Aaron,  as  his  partner  in  the  work, 
and  a  partaker  of  his  dignity. 

3.  On  the  other  hand,  when  these  locutions  are  from  the 
evil  spirit,  great  things  are  readily  undertaken,  but  humble 
occupations  become  repugnant.  God  hates  to  see  men 
inclined  to  greatness  and  honour  ;  for  when  He  bids  them 
accept  dignities,  and  when  He  bestows  them  Himself, 
He  wills  not  that  they  should  be  accepted  with  readiness 

*  Dan  ix.  zz. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


231 


[chap.  XXX.] 

and  willingness.  Formal  words  differ,  as  to  that  readiness 
which  God  communicates,  from  the  other  successive 
words  :  these  do  not  influence  the  mind  so  much,  neither 
do  they  communicate  to  it  so  much  readiness  ;  that  is  an 
effect  of  the  former,  by  reason  of  their  greater  formality, 
and  because  the  understanding  has  less  to  do  with  them. 
Still  this  does  not  prevent  successive  locutions  from 
having  occasionally  a  greater  influence,  because  of  the 
great  intercourse,  that  takes  place  at  times,  between  the 
human  spirit  and  the  divine.  But  there  is  a  great  differ¬ 
ence  in  the  manner.  In  the  formal  locutions  the  soul 
has  no  doubt  about  them,  whether  they  come  from  itself 
or  not — especially  when  it  was  not  thinking  of  the  subject 
to  which  they  relate  ;  and  even  when  that  subject  occu¬ 
pies  its  thoughts,  it  sees  most  clearly  and  distinctly,  that 
the  locutions  proceed  from  another. 

4.  We  must  not  make  much  of  these  formal  locutions 
anymore  than  of  the  successive.  For  over  and  above  the 
occupation  of  the  mind  with  that,  which  is  not  the 
legitimate  and  proximate  means  of  union  with  God, 
namely  faith,  there  is  also  the  too  certain  risk  of 
diabolical  delusions.  We  can  scarcely  distinguish  at 
times  what  locutions  come  from  a  good,  and  what  from 
an  evil,  spirit.  And  as  the  effects  of  them  are  not  great 
we  can  hardly  distinguish  them  by  that  test ;  for  some¬ 
times  the  diabolic  locutions  have  a  more  sensible  influ¬ 
ence  on  the  imperfect,  than  the  divine  locutions  on 
spiritual  persons.  We  must,  also,  not  obey  them  at 
once,  whether  they  come  from  a  good  or  evil  spirit.  But 
we  must  not  neglect  to  manifest  them  to  a  prudent  con¬ 
fessor,  or  to  some  discreet  and  learned  person,  who  shall 


232  THE  ASCENT  [BOOK  II.] 

teach  us,  and  decide  for  us,  what  we  ought  to  do ;  and 
when  we  have  had  his  decision,  we  must  be  resigned  and 
indifferent  in  the  matter.  If  we  cannot  find  such  a  person, 
a  man  of  experience,  it  is  better  in  that  case,  accepting 
the  substance  of  them,  and  what  is  safe,  to  disregard  the 
rest,  and  to  reveal  the  matter  to  no  one  ;  for  it  is  easy  to 
find  persons  who  destroy  souls  instead  of  edifying  them. 
It  is  not  everyone  who  is  fitted  for  the  direction  of  souls, 
it  being  a  matter  of  the  last  importance  to  give  right  or 
wrong  advice  in  so  serious  an  affair  as  that. 

5.  Remember,  too,  that  we  must  never  do  of  our  own 
head,  or  accept,  anything  told  us  in  these  locutions,  with¬ 
out  great  deliberation  and  reflection.  So  subtle  and  so 
singular  are  the  illusions  incidental  to  them  that,  in  my 
opinion,  no  soul,  who  does  not  deal  with  them,  as  with  an 
enemy,  can  possibly  escape  delusions  in  a  greater,  or 
less  degree,  in  many  of  them.  Having  in  the  seventeenth, 
eighteenth,  nineteenth,  and  twentieth  chapters  of  this 
book,  deliberately  discussed  these  illusions  and  dangers, 
and  the  cautions  to  be  observed,  I  shall  not  enlarge  upon 
them  here.  I  content  myself  with  saying,  that  the  real 
and  secure  teaching  on  the  subject  is,  not  to  give  heed  to 
them,  however  plausible  they  may  be,  but  to  be  governed 
in  all  by  reason,  and  by  what  the  Church  has  taught  and 
teacnes  us  every  day. 


[chap.  XXXI.] 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


233 


CHAPTER  XXXI. 

Of  the  interior  substantial  locutions  :  the  difference  between  them 
and  the  formal.  The  profitableness  of  them.  The  resigna¬ 
tion  and  reverence  of  the  soul  in  respect  of  them. 

The  third  kind  of  interior  locutions  are  the  substantial 
words.  Though  these  are  also  formal,  inasmuch  as  they 
are  formally  impressed  on  the  soul,  they  differ  from  them 
in  this  ;  the  substantial  locutions  produce  a  vivid  and 
substantial  effect  in  the  soul,  while  those  locutions  which 
are  only  formal  do  not,  though  it  be  true  that  every 
substantial  locution  is  also  formal,  yet  every  formal 
locution  is  not  substantial ;  but  only  that  which  really 
impresses  on  the  soul  what  it  signifies.  Thus,  if  our 
Lord  were  to  say  formally  to  a  particular  soul,  Be  thou 
good ;  that  soul  would  immediately  be  good.  Or,  Love 
thou  Me ;  that  soul  would  at  once  have  and  feel  in  itself 
the  substance  of  love,  that  is,  a  true  love  of  God.  Or, 
again,  if  He  were  to  say  to  a  timid  soul,  Be  not  afraid ; 
that  soul  would  on  the  instant  become  courageous  and 
calm.  For  ‘The  Word  of  God’  saith  the  wise  man,  ‘is 
full  of  power.’*  Thus,  what  the  locution  meaneth  is 
substantially  accomplished  in  the  soul.  This  is  the 
meaning  of  those  words  of  David  :  ‘  He  will  give  to  His 
voice  the  voice  of  power.’  f  Thus,  also,  dealt  He  with 
Abraham,  when  He  said  unto  him,  ‘Walk  before  Me, 
and  be  perfect.’  £  Abraham  was  then  perfect,  and  ever 
walked  reverently  before  God. 

2.  This  is  the  power  of  His  word  in  the  gospel,  by  which 
He  healed  the  sick  and  raised  the  dead,  by  a  word  only. 

*  Eccles.  viii.  4.  t  Ts.  lxvii.  34.  *  Genes,  xvii,  l. 


234 


TIIE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.] 

Such,  too,  are  His  substantial  locutions;  they  are  of 
such  price  and  moment,  as  to  be  the  life  and  strength 
and  the  incomparable  good  of  souls  ;  for  one  locution  of 
God  does  for  the  soul  far  more  at  once,  than  that  soul 
has  done  for  itself  in  its  whole  past  life. 

3.  The  soul  is  not  called  upon  to  do  or  attempt  any¬ 
thing  with  regard  to  these  locutions,  but  to  be  resigned 
and  humble.  It  is  not  called  upon  to  undervalue  or  fear 
them,  nor  to  labour  in  doing  what  they  enjoined  it.  For 
God  by  means  of  these  substantial  locutions  works  in 
and  by  the  soul  Himself.  And  herein  they  differ  from 
the  formal  and  successive  locutions.  The  soul  need  not 
reject  these  locutions,  for  the  effect  ot  them  remains 
substantially  in  the  soul,  and  full  of  blessing ;  and  there¬ 
fore  the  action  of  the  soul  is  useless,  because  it  has 
received  them  passively.  Neither  need  the  soul  be 
afraid  of  illusions  here,  for  these  locutions  are  beyond 
the  reach  of  the  understanding  or  the  evil  spirit.  The 
devil  cannot  passively  produce  this  substantial  effect  in 
any  soul  whatever,  so  as  to  impress  upon  it  the  effect 
and  habit  of  his  locution ;  though  he  may,  by  his  sug¬ 
gestions,  lead  those  souls  in  whom  he  dwells  as  their 
lord,  in  virtue  of  their  voluntary  compact  with  him,  to 
perform  deeds  of  exceeding  malignity.  For  he  is  able 
to  influence  them  easily,  because  they  are  united  to  him 
voluntarily  in  the  bonds  of  iniquity.  We  see,  by  ex¬ 
perience,  that  even  good  men  suffer  violence  from  his 
suggestions,  which  are  exceeding  strong ;  but  if  men 
are  evilly  disposed,  his  suggestions  then  are  more 
efficacious. 

i.  But  the  devil  cannot  produce  any  effects  resembling 


235 


[CHAP.  XXXII.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

those  of  the  divine  locutions,  for  there  is  no  comparison 
possible  between  his  locutions  and  those  of  God.  All 
his  are  as  if  they  were  not,  in  the  presence  of  the  divine, 
and  their  effects  as  nothing-  compared  with  the  effects  of 
God’s  locutions.  This  is  the  meaning  of  those  words  of 
the  prophet :  ‘  What  hath  the  chaff  to  do  with  the  wheat  ? 
.  .  .  Are  not  My  words  as  a  fire,  and  as  a  hammer  that 
breaketh  the  rock  in  pieces  ?  ’  *  Thus  the  substantial 
locutions  conduce  greatly  to  the  union  of  the  soul  with 
God ;  and  the  more  interior  they  are,  the  more  sub¬ 
stantial  are  they  and  the  more  profitable.  Blessed  then 
is  that  soul  to  which  God  sends  His  locutions :  ‘  Speak 
Lord,  for  Thy  servant  heareth.’  f 


CHAPTER  XXXII. 

Of  intellectual  apprehensions  resulting  from  the  interior  impres¬ 
sions  supernaturally  effected.  The  sources  of  them.  The 
conduct  to  be  observed  by  the  soul,  so  that  these  appre¬ 
hensions  shall  not  hinder  it  on  the  way  of  union. 

It  remains  for  me  now  to  discuss  the  fourth  and  last  kind 
of  apprehensions,  which  those  spiritual  impressions, 
frequently  effected  supernaturally  in  spiritual  men, 
produce  in  the  understanding.  Those  impressions  I 
have  reckoned  among  the  distinct  apprehensions  of  the 
understanding  + 

2.  There  are  two  kinds  of  these  distinct  spiritual  im¬ 
pressions.  The  first  kind  is  in  the  affection  of  the  will, 
the  second,  though  also  in  the  will,  yet  because  it 
is  most  intense,  high,  profound,  and  secret,  seems 

*  Jerem.  xxiii.  zS,  29.  +  1  Kings  iii.  10.  t  Bk.  ii.  c.  io. 


236 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  II.] 

not  to  touch  the  will,  but  to  have  been  wrought  in 
the  very  substance  of  the  soul.  Both  the  one  and  the 
other  are  extremely  diversified.  The  first,  when  from 
God,  is  very  high ;  but  the  second  is  the  highest,  of  great 
profit  and  advantage.  But  neither  the  soul  that  receives 
them,  nor  its  director,  can  ever  know  their  sources,  or 
why  God  effects  them  ;  they  do  not  depend  in  any  way 
upon  good  works  or  meditation,  though  these  dispose 
us  for  them.  God  sends  them  to  whom,  and  why,  He 
wills. 

3.  Sometimes  a  person  who  has  done  many  good  works 
will  never  have  these  touches,  and  another  of  less  merit, 
will  have  them  most  profoundly  and  most  abundantly. 
It  is  not  necessary,  therefore,  for  the  soul  to  be  actually 
occupied  with  spiritual  things— though  that  is  the  better 
state — in  order  to  be  the  object  of  the  divine  touches,  of 
which  these  impressions  are  the  result,  for  they  frequently 
occur  when  the  soul  is  heedless  of  them.  Some  of  these 
touches  are  distinct,  and  pass  rapidly  away ;  others  less 
so,  but  of  longer  continuance. 

4.  These  impressions — so  far  as  they  come  under  this 
description  of  them— do  not  appertain  to  the  under¬ 
standing,  but  to  the  will.  I  shall,  therefore,  not  discuss 
them  now,  but  reserve  them  for  the  treatise  on  the  night, 
or  purgation  of  the  will  in  its  affections,  which  will  form 
the  third  book.  As  in  general,  and  even  very  frequently, 
a  more  express  and  perceptible  apprehension,  know¬ 
ledge,  and  intelligence,  flow  from  these  impressions  into 
the  understanding,  it  is  necessary  to  mention  it  here  for 
that  purpose  only. 

5.  We  must,  therefore,  remember  that,  from  all  these 


[CHAP.  XXXII.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL.  23? 

impressions,  whether  the  divine  touches  which  cause 
them,  be  rapid,  or  continuous  and  successive,  there  flows 
frequently  into  the  understanding  the  apprehension  of 
knowledge  or  intelligence ;  which  is  usually  a  most 
profound  and  sweet  sense  of  God,  to  which,  as  well  as  to 
the  impression  from  which  it  flows,  no  name  can  be 
given.  This  knowledge  comes,  sometimes  in  one  way, 
sometimes  in  another,  now  most  deep  and  clear,  again 
less  so,  according  to  the  nature  of  the  divine  touches, 
which  occasion  the  impressions,  and  according  to  the 
nature  of  the  impressions,  of  which  it  is  the  result. 

6.  It  is  not  necessary  to  waste  words  here  in  cautioning 
and  directing  the  understanding,  amid  this  knowledge, 
in  faith  to  the  divine  union.  For  as  these  impressions 
are  passively  wrought  in  the  soul,  without  any  co¬ 
operation  on  its  part ;  so  also  the  knowledge  which 
results  from  them,  is  passively  received  in  the  under¬ 
standing — philosophers  apply  the  term  passible  to  the 
understanding — independently  of  its  own  exertions.  In 
order,  therefore,  to  escape  delusions  here,  and  not  to 
hinder  the  benefits  of  these  impressions,  the  under¬ 
standing  ought  not  to  meddle  with  them,  but  remain 
passive,  inclining  the  will  to  consent  freely  and  grate¬ 
fully,  and  not  interfering  itself.  For,  as  in  the  case  of 
successive  locutions,  the  activity  of  the  understanding 
can  very  easily  disturb  and  destroy  this  delicate  know¬ 
ledge,  which  is  a  sweet  supernatural  intelligence,  which 
no  natural  faculty  can  reach  or  comprehend  otherwise 
than  by  the  way  of  recipient,  and  never  by  that  of 
agent.  No  effort,  therefore,  should  be  made,  lest  the 
understanding  should  fashion  something  of  itself,  and 


gas  THE  ASCENT  [ROOK  TT.] 

the  devil  at  the  same  time  effect  an  entrance  into  the 
soul  with  false  and  strange  knowledge.  He  is  well 
able  to  do  this,  through  the  channel  of  these  impres¬ 
sions,  by  taking  advantage  of  the  bodily  se  ises.  Let 
the  soul  be  resigned,  humble,  and  passive,  for  as  it 
receives  passively  from  God  this  knowledge ;  so  will  He 
communicate  it,  of  His  own  good  pleasure,  when  He 
sees  it  humble  and  detached.  By  so  living,  the  soul  will 
put  no  obstacles  in  the  way  of  the  profitableness  of  this 
knowledge  for  the  divine  union  :  and  that  profitableness 
is  great.  All  these  touches  are  touches  of  union,  which 
is  passively  effected  in  the  soul. 

7.  The  whole  teaching  of  this  book  on  the  subject  of 
total  abstraction  and  passive  contemplation,  whereby  we 
abandon  ourselves  into  the  hands  of  God— in  the  forget¬ 
fulness  of  all  created  things,  in  detachment  from  images 
and  figures,  and  dwelling  on  the  supreme  truth  in  pure 
contemplation — is  applicable,  not  only  to  the  act  of 
most  perfect  contemplation — the  profound  and  altogether 
supernatural  repose  of  which  is  disturbed  by  ‘  the 
daughters  of  Jerusalem,’*  namely,  good  meditations  and 
reflections,  if  we  then  attempt  them— but  also  to  the 
whole  of  that  time,  in  which  our  Lord  communicates  the 
simple,  general,  and  loving  attention,  of  which  I  have 
made  mention  before,  or  when  the  soul,  assisted  by 
grace,  is  established  in  that  state.  For  then  we  must 
contrive  to  have  the  understanding  in  repose,  undisturbed 
by  the  intrusion  of  forms,  figures,  or  particular  know¬ 
ledge,  unless  it  were  slightly  and  for  an  instant,  and  that 

*  Cant.  iii.  5.  See  Spiritual  Canticle,  stanza  29,  Introd.,  and  Flame  of 
Love,  stanza  3,  §  xi. 


239 


[CHAP.  XXXII.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

with  sweetness  of  love,  to  enkindle  our  souls  the  more. 
At  other  times,  however,  in  all  our  acts  of  devotion  and 
of  good  works,  we  must  make  use  of  good  recollections 
and  meditations,  so  that  we  may  feel  an  increase  of 
profit  and  devotion  ;  most  especially  applying  ourselves 
to  the  life,  passion,  and  death  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord, 
that  our  life  and  conduct  may  be  an  imitation  of  His. 

8.  Let  this  suffice  for  the  supernatural  apprehensions  of 
the  understanding,  so  far  as  the  guiding  thereof,  through 
them,  in  faith,  to  the  divine  union,  is  concerned.  I  think 
I  have  said  enough  on  the  subject:  for  the  instructions 
and  cautions  already  given  will  be  found  ample  with 
regard  to  all  that  may  occur  in  the  understanding.  And 
if  anything  should  be  met  with  of  a  different  nature 
and  not  comprised  in  the  distinctions  laid  down — 
though  I  do  not  imagine  that  there  can  be  anything 
which  cannot  be  referred  to  one  of  the  four  kinds  of 
distinct  knowledge — what  I  have  said  of  those  that 
resemble  them  will  suffice. 

9.  I  now  proceed  to  the  third  book ;  where,  by  the  help 
of  God,  I  shall  speak  of  the  interior  spiritual  purgation 
of  the  will  from  its  interior  affections.  This  is  the 
active  night.  I  therefore  entreat  the  discerning  reader 
to  consider  what  I  write  in  simplicity  and  candour : 
for  when  these  qualities  are  wanting,  however  perfect 
and  profound  the  teaching  may  be,  he  will  not  profit 
by  it,  neither  will  he  value  it  as  it  deserves.  And 
much  more  will  this  be  the  case  in  the  present  instance, 
because  of  the  deficiencies  of  my  way  of  writing. 


240 


THE  ASCENT 


[EOOK  HI.  | 


BOOK  III. 

THE  PURGATION  AND  ACTIVE  NIGHT  OF  THE  MEMORY 

AND  THE  WILL. 


ARGUMENT. 

The  understanding,  which  is  the  first  power  of  the 
soul,  being  now  instructed,  with  regard  to  all  its  appre¬ 
hensions,  in  the  first  theological  virtue,  namely  faith,  so 
that  the  soul,  according  to  this  power,  may  be  united  to 
God  in  pureness  of  faith  ;  it  remains  for  me  now  to  do 
the  same  with  respect  to  the  two  other  powers,  memory 
and  will,  showing  how  they  too  are  to  be  purified  in  all 
their  acts,  so  that  the  soul,  according  to  them  also,  may 
be  united  to  God  in  perfect  hope  and  charity.  I  shall 
do  this  briefly  in  this  third  book.  For  having  concluded 
that  which  relates  to  the  understanding,  the  receptacle 
of  all  objects  that  pass  through  the  memory  and  the  will 
— and  that  goes  a  great  way  towards  the  full  execution 
of  my  purpose— it  is  not  so  necessary  to  enlarge  on  the 
subject  of  these  two  powers  ;  because,  in  general,  the 
spiritual  man  who  shall  have  well  directed  his  under¬ 
standing  in  faith,  according  to  my  teaching,  will  also,  by 
the  way,  have  done  as  much  for  the  memory  and  the 
will  in  the  matter  of  hope  and  charity  :  for  the  operations 
of  these  virtues  are  mutually  dependent  the  one  on  the 
other.  But,  as  it  is  necessary — that  I  may  observe  the 
same  order,  and  be  the  better  understood — to  speak  of 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


241 


[CHAP.  I.] 

the  proper  and  determinate  matter,  I  shall  treat  of  the 
acts  of  each  of  these  two  faculties,  distinguishing  between 
them  according  to  the  method  of  my  subject.  That 
distinction  arises  out  of  the  distinction  between  their 
objects,  which  are  three,  natural,  supernatural  imaginary, 
and  spiritual.  The  knowledge  of  the  memory,  following 
these  distinctions,  is  also  threefold  :  natural,  supernatural 
imaginary,  and  spiritual.  I  shall  treat  of  these  here, 
by  the  grace  of  God,  beginning  with  natural  knowledge, 
which  is  conversant  with  the  most  exterior  objects  ;  and 
I  shall  afterwards  speak  of  the  affections  of  the  will, 
and  then  conclude  this  third  book,  the  subject  of  which 
is  the  active  spiritual  night. 


CHAPTER  I. 

Of  the  natural  apprehensions  of  the  memory :  which  is  to  be 
emptied  of  them,  that  the  soul,-  according  to  that  faculty, 
may  be  united  with  God. 

IT  is  necessary  to  keep  in  mind  the  special  object  of 
each  of  these  books ;  for  otherwise  the  reader  will 
be  perplexed  by  what  he  reads,  as  he  may  have  been  by 
what  I  said  about  the  understanding,  and  as  he  may  be 
now  by  what  I  say  of  the  memory,  and  what  I  have  to 
say  hereafter  of  the  will.  For  when  he  observes,  that  I 
teach  the  annihilation  of  these  powers  in  the  matter  of 
their  operations  ;  he  will  perhaps  imagine,  that  I  am 
destroying,  and  not  building  up,  the  spiritual  edifice. 
This  objection  would  be  valid,  if  my  purpose  here  was  to 
instruct  only  beginners,  who  are  to  be  led  onwards  by 
means  of  these  discursive  and  tangible  apprenensions. 


Q 


242 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.] 

But  as  I  am  teaching  how  to  advance  by  contemplation 
to  the  divine  union — for  which  end  all  these  means,  and 
the  sensible  exertion  of  the  powers  of  the  soul  must 
cease  and  be  silent,  in  order  that  God  in  His  own  way 
may  bring  that  union  to  pass— it  is  necessary  to  release 
the  faculties  and  to  empty  them,  and  to  make  them 
renounce  their  natural  jurisdiction  and  operations,  in 
order  that  the  supernatural  may  fill  and  enlighten  them  ;  . 
seeing  that  their  powers  cannot  compass  so  great  a 
matter,  but  rather,  unless  suppressed,  prove  a  difficulty 
in  the  way.  And  as  it  is  most  true  that  the  soul  knoweth 
God,  rather  by  what  He  is  not,  than  by  what  He  is ;  it 
follows  of  necessity  that  if  we  are  to  draw  near  unto 
Him,  it  must  be  by  denying  and  renouncing  to  the  utter¬ 
most  all  that  may  be  denied,  of  our  apprehensions, 
natural  and  supernatural  alike.  We  shall,  therefore, 
apply  this  process  to  the  memory :  driving  it  away  out 
of  its  natural  position  and  raising  it  above  itself,  that  is, 
above  all  distinct  knowledge  and  conscious  compre¬ 
hension,  to  the  highest  hope  of  God  Who  is  incompre¬ 
hensible. 

2.  I  begin  with  natural  knowledge.  The  natural  know¬ 
ledge  of  the  memory  is  all  that  knowledge  it  can  form 
about  the  objects  of  the  five  bodily  senses :  hearing, 
seeing,  smelling,  tasting  and  touching,  and  all  else  of  the 
like  kind.  The  memory  must  be  stripped  and  emptied 
of  all  this  knowledge  and  of  these  forms  ;  it  must  labour 
to  destroy  all  sense  of  them,  so  that  no  impression  what¬ 
ever  of  them  shall  be  left  behind ;  it  must  forget  them, 
and  withdraw  itself  from  them,  and  that  as  completely 
is  if  they  had  never  entered  into  it.  Nothing  less  than 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


243 


[chap.  I.] 

the  annihilation  of  the  memory  as  to  all  these  forms  will 
serve,  if  it  is  to  be  united  with  God.  For  that  union  can 
never  take  place  without  a  total  separation  from  these 
forms  which  are  not  God,  for  God  is  without  form  ;  neither 
is  He  the  object  of  any  distinct  knowledge  whatever,  as 
I  have  said  while  treating  of  the  night  of  the  under¬ 
standing.* 

3.  ‘No  man,’  saith  our  Redeemer,  ‘can  serve  two 
masters, ’t  so  the  memory  cannot  be  perfectly  united  with 
God,  and  at  the  same  time  with  forms  and  distinct  know¬ 
ledge.  And  as  God  is  without  form  or  image,  on  which  the 
memory  may  dwell,  so  when  the  memory  is  united  with 
God — as  we  see  by  daily  experience — it  remains  without 
form  or  figure,  with  the  imagination  suppressed,  and 
itself  absorbed  in  supreme  felicity,  in  profound  oblivion, 
remembering  nothing.  The  divine  union  expels  every 
fancy,  and  shuts  out  all  forms  and  knowledge ;  it  raises 
the  memory  to  that  which  is  supernatural,  leaving  it  m 
such  deep  forgetfulness  that  it  must  do  violence  to  itself, 
if  it  will  remember  anything  at  all.  Such  at  times  is 
this  forgetfulness  of  the  memory,  and  suspension  of  the 
imaginative  powers,  because  of  the  union  of  the  memory 
with  God,  that  time  passes  by  unheeded,  and  what  took 
place  in  the  interval  cannot  be  known.  When  the 
imaginative  powers  are  held  in  suspense,  there  is  no  sense 
of  pain  even  when  pain  is  inflicted  ;  for  without  imagina¬ 
tion  there  is  no  sense,  not  even  in  thought,  because  it 
exists  not.  If  God  is  to  bring  about  this  perfect  union, 
memory  must  be  severed  from  all  acts  of  knowledge  of 
which  it  is  capable.  But  it  is  to  be  observed,  that  this 
*  Bk.  ii.  Ch.  viii.  t  St.  Matt.  vi.  24. 


Q2 


244 


THE  ASCENT 


[book  m.] 

suspension  never  occurs  thus  in  those  who  are  perfect, 
because  they  have  attained  already  to  the  perfect  union, 
and  this  suspension  relates  to  the  commencement  of  that 
state. 

4.  You  will,  perhaps,  object  and  say:  All  this  is  very 
well,  but  the  principle  involves  the  destruction  of  the 
natural  use  and  course  of  our  faculties,  and  reduces  man  to 
the  level  of  a  brute  beast,  forgetful  of  all  things,  and  what 
is  worse,  without  reflection  or  recollection  of  his  natural 
wants  and  functions.  Surely  God  does  not  destroy 
nature,  but  rather  perfects  it  ;  but  its  destruction  is  the 
natural  issue  of  this  doctrine,  for  man  forgets  all  moral 
and  rational  motives,  and  all  natural  acts  ;  he  remembers 
nothing,  because  he  regards  not  the  forms  and  knowledge 
in  question,  which  are  means  of  remembering. 

5.  To  this  I  reply :  the  more  the  memory  is  united  to 
God  the  more  it  loses  all  distinct  knowledge,  and  at  last  all 
such  fades  utterly  away,  when  the  state  of  perfection  is 
reached.  In  the  beginning,  when  this  is  going  on,  great 
forgetfulness  ensues,  for  these  forms  and  knowledge  fall 
into  oblivion,  men  neglect  themselves  in  outward  things, 
forgetting  to  eat  or  drink ;  they  do  not  remember  whether 
they  have  done  or  left  undone  a  particular  work,  whether 
they  havo  seen  suck  things  or  not,  or  whether  such  and 
such  things  have  been  mentioned  to  them  ;  and  all  this 
because  the  memory  is  lost  in  God.  But  he  who  has 
attained  to  the  habit  of  union  does  not  forget,  in  this  way, 
that  which  relates  to  moral  and  natural  reason  ;  he  per¬ 
forms  in  much  greater  perfection  all  necessary  and 
befitting  actions,  though  by  the  ministry  of  forms  and 
knowledge,  in  the  memory,  supplied  in  a  special  manner 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


245 


[CHAP.  I.] 

by  God.  In  the  state  of  union,  which  is  a  supernatural 
state,  the  memory  and  the  other  faculties  fail  as  to  their 
natural  functions,  and  rise  beyond  their  natural  objects 
upwards  unto  God,  Who  is  supernatural. 

6.  And  thus,  then,  when  the  memory  is  transformed  in 
God,  no  permanent  forms  or  knowledge  can  be  impressed 
upon  it ;  the  operations  of  the  memory,  therefore,  and  of 
the  other  powers  in  this  state  are,  as  it  were,  divine; 
God  has  entered  into  possession,  by  this  transformation, 
as  their  alsolute  Lord ;  guides  and  governs  them  Him¬ 
self  divinely  by  His  own  spirit  and  will,  as  it  is  written, 
‘  He  who  is  joined  to  the  Lord  is  one  spirit ;  ’  *  and  there¬ 
fore  the  operations  of  the  soul  in  the  state  of  union  are 
the  operations  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and,  consequently, 
divine. 

7.  Now,  the  actions  of  such  souls  only  are  what  they 
ought  to  be,  and  reasonable,  and  not  what  they  ought 
not  to  be  :  because  under  the  influence  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
they  know  what  they  ought  to  know,  are  ignorant  of 
what  they  ought  to  be  ignorant,  remember  what  they 
ought  to  remember,  forget  what  they  ought  to  forget,  love 
what  they  ought  to  love,  and  love  not  that  which  is  not 
God.  Thus  in  general  the  first  motions  of  the  faculties 
of  these  souls  are,  as  it  were,  divine.  There  is  nothing 
wonderful  in  this,  seeing  that  they  are  transformed  in 
the  divine  nature. 

8.  I  will  explain  my  meaning  by  the  following  illustra¬ 
tion.  A  person  in  the  state  of  union  is  requested  to 
pray  for  a  certain  individual.  Now  he  will  never  re¬ 
member  to  do  what  is  asked  of  him,  by  reason  of  any- 

*  i  Cor.  vi.  17. 


246 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.] 

thing  whatever  remaining  in  his  memory ;  but  if  it  be 
right  so  to  pray — which  it  will  be  when  God  shall  be 
pleased  to  hear  that  prayer — God  will  then  move  the 
will  and  excite  a  desire  to  pray.  On  the  other  hand,  if 
it  be  not  the  will  of  God  to  hear  that  prayer ;  let  that 
person  do  what  he  may,  he  will  never  pray  as  he  was 
requested,  neither  will  he  have  any  desire  to  do  so. 
Sometimes  God  will  make  him  pray  for  others,  whom  he 
never  knew  or  heard  of.  This  is  the  effect  of  a  parti¬ 
cular  influence  of  God  exerted  over  these  souls,  whom 
He  directs  to  perform  certain  actions  according  to  the 
disposition  of  His  will.  The  actions  and  the  prayers  of 
such  souls  always  attain  their  end. 

9.  So  it  was  with  the  glorious  Mother  of  God.  Perfect 
from  the  first,  there  was  no  impression  of  created  things 
on  her  soul,  to  turn  her  aside  from  God,  or  in  any  way  to 
influence  her;  for  her  every  movement  ever  proceeded 
from  the  Holy  Ghost. 

10.  Again.  A  perfect  man  has  at  a  given  time  a  certain 
indispensable  business  to  transact.  He  has  no  recollec¬ 
tion  whatever  of  it :  but  in  some  way  he  knows  not,  it 
will,  present  itself  to  his  mind,  through  that  stirring  of  his 
memory  of  which  I  speak,  at  the  time  and  in  the  way  it 
ought,  and  that  without  fail.  It  is  not  only  in  these 
matters  that  the  Holy  Ghost  enlightens  the  soul,  but  in 
many  others,  present,  future,  and  distant — men  knowing 
not  how  the  knowledge  thereof  comes  to  them.  But  it 
comes  from  the  divine  wisdom,  because  they  exercise 
themselves  in  knowing  or  apprehending  nothing,  which 
can  obstruct  their  course.  It  comes  to  them  in  general, 
as  I  said  in  the  beginning,  while  speaking  of  the  Mount, 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


247 


[chap.  I.] 

so  that  they  do  all  things ;  as  it  is  written,  ‘  Wisdom, 
which  is  the  worker  of  all  things,  taught  me.’* 

11.  You  will  say,  perhaps,  that  the  soul  cannot  so 
empty  and  deprive  the  memory  of  all  forms  and  fantasies, 
as  to  reach  a  state  so  high  ;  for  there  are  two  things  to  be 
done  which  are  beyond  the  forces  and  abilities  of  man  ; 
namely,  to  cast  what  is  natural  aside,  and  touch,  and 
unite  with,  the  supernatural,  which  is  the  most  difficult, 
and,  in  truth,  impossible  for  mere  natural  strength.  God, 
indeed,  must  raise  it  up  into  this  supernatural  state ;  but 
the  soul,  so  far  as  it  can,  must  also  be  in  good  disposi¬ 
tions,  which  it  may  acquire  by  the  help  which  God 
supplies.  And  so  when  the  soul  rejects  these  forms  and 
empties  itself  of  them,  God  causes  it  to  enter  into  the 
enjoyment  of  this  union.  When  God  does  this,  the  soul 
is  passive,  as  I  shall  explain  in  speaking  of  the  passive 
night ;  and  He  will  then  bestow  upon  it  the  habit  of 
perfect  union,  proportional  to  its  good  dispositions, 
when  it  shall  seem  to  Him  good  to  do  so.  I  do  not 
speak  of  the  divine  effects  of  the  perfect  union,  as  they 
relate  to  the  understanding  on  the  one  hand,  to  the 
memory  and  the  will  on  the  other,  in  connection  with 
this  night  and  active  purgation,  for  the  divine  union  is 
not  here  complete  ;  but  I  will  do  so  in  connection  with 
the  passive  night, f  in  which  the  soul  is  united  with  God. 

12.  I  speak  here  only  of  the  necessary  means  of  purify¬ 
ing-  the  memory,  so  that,  so  far  as  itself  is  concerned,  it 
may  enter  actively  upon  this  night  and  purgation.  The 
spiritual  man  must  observe  this  precaution  :  never  to 
treasure  up  or  retain  in  the  memory  anything  he  may  see, 

*  Wisd.  vii.  21.  t  Dark  Night,  Bk.  ii.  ch.  xxi. 


348 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.] 

hear,  taste,  touch,  or  smell ;  but  to  let  them  pass  away, 
forgetting  them,  and  never  reflecting  upon  them,  unless 
when  it  may  be  necessary  to  do  so  in  order  to  a  good 
meditation.  But  this  deliberate  forgetfulness,  and  rejec¬ 
tion  of  all  knowledge  and  of  forms,  must  never  be 
extended  to  Christ  and  His  Sacred  Humanity.* 

13.  Sometimes,  indeed,  in  the  height  of  contemplation 
and  pure  intuition  of  the  divinity,  the  soul  does  not 
remember  the  Sacred  Humanity,  because  God  raises  the 
mind  to  this,  as  it  were,  confused  and  most  supernatural 
knowledge  ;  but  for  all  this,  studiously  to  forget  it  is  by 
no  means  right,  for  the  contemplation  of  the  Sacred 
Humanity  and  loving  meditation  upon  it,  will  help  us  up 
to  all  good,  and  it  is  by  It  we  shall  ascend  most  easily  to 
the  highest  state  of  union. 

14.  It  is  evident  at  once  that,  while  all  visible  and  bodily 
things  ought  to  be  forgotten,  for  they  are  a  hindrance  in 
our  way,  He,  who  for  our  salvation  became  man,  is  not 
to  be  accounted  among  them,  for  He  is  the  truth,  the 
door,  and  the  way,  and  our  guide  unto  all  good. 

15.  Let  the  spiritual  man,  then,  take  this  for  granted. 
Let  him  aim  at  complete  abstraction  and  forgetfulness ; 
so  that,  as  much  as  possible,  no  knowledge  or  form  of 
created  things — as  if  they  existed  not-*-shall  remain  in 
his  memory,  so  that  the  memory  thus  emptied  and  free 
may  be  wholly  for  God,  lost  as  it  were,  in  holy  oblivion. 

16.  If,  again,  doubts  are  raised  and  objections  made, 
as  beforef  with  regard  to  the  understanding,  to  the  effect 
that  in  this  way  we  shall  be  doing  nothing,  losing 

*  St.  Teresa’s  Life  ch.  xxii.  §  n. — ch.  xxiii.  §  18. 
t  Bk.  ii.  ch.  xi.  and  ch.  xv. 


our 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


240 


[chap.  I.] 

time  and  depriving  ourselves  of  those  spiritual  blessings, 
of  which  the  memory  serves  as  a  channel ;  I  can  but 
answer  that  I  have  replied  to  them  here  as  I  did  before, 
and  that  there  is  no  reason  why  I  should  dwell  longer 
upon  them  at  present.  Only  let  us  remember,  that  if  for 
a  time  this  forgetfulness  of  all  knowledge  and  forms  is 
not  felt  to  be  profitable,  the  spiritual  man  must  not 
therefore  grow  wearied ;  for  God  will  draw  near  in  His 
own  time,  and  that  for  so  great  a  blessing  we  ought  to 
wait  long,  and  patiently  persevere  in  hope. 

17.  Though  it  is  true  that  we  shall  scarcely  meet  with 
anyone  who  in  all  things  and  at  all  times  is  under  the 
direct  influence  of  God,  whose  union  with  Him,  is  so 
continuous  that  his  faculties  are  divinely  directed ;  still 
there  are  souls,  which  for  the  most  part  in  their  opera¬ 
tions  are  under  the  guidance  of  God,  and  these  are  not  souls 
which  move  themselves  in  the  sense  of  St.  Paul,  when 
he  said  that  the  sons  of  God— those  who  are  transformed, 
and  united  in  Him— ‘  are  led  by  the  Spirit  of  God,’*  to 
accomplish  divine  actions  in  their  faculties.  This  is 
nothing  strange,  for  these  operations  must  be  divine, 
seeing  that  the  union  of  the  soul  is  divine. 


Rom.  vi) t  14. 


250 


THE  ASCENT 


[book  m.j 


CHAPTER  II. 

Three  kinds  of  evils  to  which  the  soul  is  liable,  when  not  in 
darkness,  with  respect  to  the  knowledge  and  reflections  of 
the  memory.  Explanation  of  the  first. 

The  spiritual  man  is  subject  to  three  evils  and  incon¬ 
veniences,  if  he  persists  in  the  use  of  the.  natural 
knowledge  of  the  memory,  with  a  view  to  drawing  near 
unto  God,  or  for  any  other  purpose.  Two  of  them  are 
positive,  and  the  third  is  negative.  The  first  proceeds 
from  the  things  of  this  world  ;  the  second  from  the 
devil ;  and  the  third,  which  is  negative,  consists  in  the 
hindrance  and  disturbance  of  the  divine  union,  which 
this  knowledge  brings  with  it. 

2.  The  first,  proceeding  from  the  things  of  this  world,  is 
a  subjection  to  many  kinds  of  evils,  the  result  of  this 
knowledge  and  reflection,  such  as  falsehoods,  imper¬ 
fections,  desires,  opinions,  waste  of  time,  and  many 
other  things  which  greatly  defile  the  soul.  It  is  clear, 
that  in  yielding  to  these  notions  and  reflections,  we  must 
fall  into  many  errors ;  for  very  often  what  is  false  seems 
to  be  true,  what  is  certain,  doubtful,  and  the  contrary  ; 
seeing  that  we  can  scarcely  ever  ascertain  thoroughly  a 
single  truth.  From  all  these  we  shall  escape,  if  we 
make  the  memory  blind  to  these  notions  and  reflections. 

3.  Imperfections  beset  the  memory  at  every  step  in  all 
we  hear,  see,  smell,  touch,  and  taste ;  for  these  touch 
certain  affections,  such  as  grief  and  fear  and  hatred, 
useless  hopes,  empty  joy,  or  vain  glory.  All  these  at 
least  are  imperfections,  and  sometimes  undoubted  venial 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


251 


Lchap.  II. J 

sins ;  things  which  disturb  perfect  purity  and  simple 
union  with  God.  Desires  also  are  certainly  excited,  for 
the  knowledge  and  reflections  in  question  naturally 
produce  them,  and  a  mere  disposition  to  retain  these 
reflections  furnishes  food  for  desire.  We  are  also  liable 
to  many  a  trial  through  our  own  opinions,  because  the 
memory  must  err  in  the  recollection  of  the  good  and  evil 
of  others^;  for  sometimes  evil  is  taken  for  good,  and 
good  for  evil.  No  man,  as  I  believe,  can  ever  escape 
these  evils,  who  does  not  blind  his  memory  as  to  all  such 
matters. 

4.  If  you  say  that  a  man  may  easily  overcome  all  these 
trials,  when  they  come  upon  him,  I  answer,  that  it  is 
utterly  impossible,  if  he  gives  heed  to  these  reflections  ; 
for  they  involve  innumerable  follies,  and  some  of  them 
so  subtle  and  minute  that  they  cling  to  the  soul  unawares, 
like  pitch  to  the  hand  that  has  touched  it.  I  repeat, 
then,  that  the  best  way  to  overcome  them  is  to  do  so  at 
once,  banishing  them  utterly  out  of  the  memory. 

5.  You  will  further  object,  and  say,  that  the  soul  thus 
deprives  itself  of  many  good  thoughts  and  meditations 
about  God,  and  which  are  most  profitable  to  it  in  the 
blessings  they  bring  with  them.  I  answer,  all  that  is 
purely  God  and  promotes  this  pure  simple  general  and 
confused  knowledge,  is  not  to  be  rejected,  but  only  what 
detains  the  memory  on  images,  forms,  figures,  and 
similitudes  of  created  things.  And  in  order  that  God 
may  accomplish  this  purgation,  pureness  of  soul  is 
most  profitable— that  pureness  which  consists  in  not 
setting  the  affections  thereof  on  any  created  or  tran¬ 
sitory  things,  and  in  not  regarding  them  ;  for  in  my 


252 


•  THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.] 

opinion,  tie  opposite  conduct  will  not  fail  to  make  a 
deep  impression  because  of  the  imperfection,  which 
cleaves  to  the  powders  of  the  soul  in  their  operation. 
It  is,  therefore,  much  better  to  impose  silence  on  the 
faculties,  that  God  may  speak.  In  order  to  attain  to 
this  state,  the  natural  operations  must  cease.  This  takes 
place,  as  the  prophet  saith,  wfhen  the  soul  comes  into 
solitude  with  its  faculties,  and  when  God  speaks  to  the 
heart:  ‘I  .  .  .  will  lead  her  into  the  wilderness,  and 
I  will  speak  to  her  heart.’* 

6.  But  if  you  still  object  and  say,  that  the  soul  will 
profit  nothing,  if  the  memory  does  not  reflect  and  dwell 
upon  God,  and  that  it  will  be  liable  to  much  lukewarm¬ 
ness  and  distraction— I  answer,  it  is  impossible;  for  if  the 
memory  be  entirely  withdrawn  from  the  things  of  this 
life  and  of  the  next,  no  evil,  no  distraction,  no  folly  or 
vice  can  enter  within  it— such  things  insinuate  themselves 
through  the  wandering  of  the  memory— for  then  there  is 
no  way  by  which  they  can  enter,  nor  anything  to  give 
occasion  to  them.  This  certainly  would  be  the  case,  it 
we  opened  the  door  to  the  consideration  of  earthly 
things,  while  it  is  shut  against  that  of  heavenly  things : 
but  we  shut  the  door  against  everything  which  is 
prejudicial  to  union,  and  out  of  which  distractions  may 
come,  bringing  the  memory  into  silence,  that  the  Spirit 
only  may  be  heard;  and  saying  with  the  prophet,  ‘  Speak, 
Lord,  for  Thy  servant  heareth.’  f  Such  also  is  the  state 
of  the  bride  ;  for  the  bridegroom  saith  of  her,  ‘  My  sister, 
my  spouse  is  a  garden  enclosed,  a  fountain  sealed  up,’ 
so  that  nothing  may  enter  within. 

*  Os.  ii.  14.  +  1  Kings  iii.  10,  £  Cant.  iv.  12. 


++ 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


253 


[chap.  III.J 

7.  Let  the  soul,  therefore,  be  ‘enclosed’  without  anxiety 
or  alarm  ;  and  He  Who,  when  the  doors  wrere  shut, 
entered  bodily  in  among  His  disciples,  and  said,  ‘  Peace 
be  unto  you,’*  in  an  unexpected  and  inconceivable  way, 
will  enter  spiritually  into  the  soul  without  its  knowledge 
or  co-operation,  when  it  keeps  the  doors  of  its  powers 
closed  ;  the  memory,  understanding,  and  will,  and  fill  it 
with  His  peace,  turning  into  it  the  river  of  peace,  as  it  is 
written,  ‘  O  that  thou  hadst  hearkened  to  My  command¬ 
ments  ;  thy  peace  had  been  as  a  river.’  f  And  He  will 
take  away  all  misgivings,  and  suspicions,  all  uneasiness 
and  darkness,  which  made  the  soul  afraid  that  it  was 
already,  or  on  the  point  of  being,  lost.  Be,  therefore, 
earnest  in  prayer,  and  hope  in  detachment  and  empti¬ 
ness  ;  thy  good  will  not  tarry. 


CHAPTER  III. 

Of  the  second  evil,  coming  from  the  evil  spirit  through  the 
natural  apprehensions  of  the  memory. 

The  second  positive  evil,  to  which  the  soul  is  liable  from 
the  notions  of  the  memory,  comes  from  the  devil,  who 
by  these  means  has  great  power  over  it.  For  he  can 
heap  forms  upon  forms,  and  thereby  infect  the  soul  with 
pride,  avarice,  envy,  and  hatred.  He  can  also  excite 
unjust  enmities,  vain  love,  and  delude  us  in  many  ways. 
Besides,  he  is  wont  so  to  impress  matters  on  the  fancy, 
that  falsehood  seems  true,  and  truth  false.  Finally,  all 
the  greatest  delusions  of  Satan,  and  the  evils  of  the  soul 


St.  John  xx  19. 


t  Is.  xlviii.  18. 


254 


TI1E  ascent 


[book  III.J 

enter  in  through  these  notions  and  forms  of  the  memory. 
Now  if  the  memory  were  blind  to  these  things,  and 
annihilated  in  forgetfulness  of  them,  it  would  shut  the 
door  against  the  evil  spirit,  so  far  as  this  evil  is  con- 

4 

cerned,  and  free  itself  wholly  from  these  things,  which 
would  be  a  great  blessing.  The  evil  spirit  cannot  molest 
the  soul  but  through  the  operations  of  its  faculties,  and 
chiefly  by  the  help  of  forms  and  fancies  :  for  upon  these 
depend,  more  or  less,  all  the  operations  of  the  other 
faculties.  And,  therefore,  if  the  memory  annihilates 
itself  as  to  them,  the  devil  can  do  nothing ;  because  he 
can  find  nothing  to  lay  hold  of,  and  without  something 
of  that  kind  he  can  do  nothing  whatever. 

2.  Would  that  spiritual  directors  could  clearly  see,  how 
great  are  the  evils,  which  the  wicked  spirits  inflict  upon 
souls  through  the  memory,  when  they  make  use  of  it ; 
what  sadness  and  affliction  and  vain  joys  they  occasion, 
both  with  regard  to  the  things  of  God  and  the  things  of 
the  world ;  what  impurities  they  leave  rooted  in  the 
mind,  distracting  it  so  profoundly  from  that  supreme 
self-recollection,  which  consists  in  fixing  all  the  powers 
of  the  soul  on  the  One  Incomprehensible  Good,  and 
withdrawing  them  from  all  objects  of  sense.  This 
emptying  of  the  memory,  though  the  advantages  of  it 
are  not  so  great  as  those  of  the  state  of  union,  yet, 
merely  because  it  delivers  souls  from  much  sorrow,  grief, 
and  sadness,  besides  imperfections  and  sins,  is  in  itself  a 
great  good. 


[CHAP.  IV.] 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


255 


CHAPTER  IV. 

Ot  the  third  evil,  proceeding  from  the  distinct  natural  knowledge 

of  the  memory. 

The  third  evil,  to  which  the  soul  is  liable  from  the 
natural  apprehensions  of  the  memory,  is  negative. 
These  apprehensions  can  hinder  moral,  and  deprive  us 
of  spiritual,  good.  And,  first  of  all,  to  show  how  they 
hinder  moral  good,  we  must  keep  in  mind,  that  moral 
good  consists  in  curbing  the  passions,  and  in  restraining 
our  disorderly  desires ;  the  result  of  which  is  peace, 
tranquillity,  and  rest,  which  appertain  unto  moral  good. 
But  this  curbing  and  restraining  of  the  passions  is  im¬ 
possible  for  any  soul,  that  does  not  forget  and  withdraw 
from  all  those  things,  by  which  its  affections  are  excited ; 
and  no  trouble  is  ever  produced  in  the  soul  but  by  the 
apprehensions  of  the  memory.  For  if  we  forget  all 
things,  there  is  then  nothing  to  disturb  our  peace  or  to 
excite  our  desires ;  seeing  that,  as  they  say,  what  the  eye 
has  not  seen  the  heart  does  not  desire. 

2.  This  is  a  truth  of  daily  experience :  whenever  the 
soul  broods  over  anything,  it  is  changed  or  disturbed,  be 
it  much  or  little,  according  to  the  measure  of  its  apprehen¬ 
sion.  If  the  subject  of  its  thoughts  be  serious  and  dis¬ 
agreeable,  it  elicits  feelings  of  sadness  or  dislike ;  if,  on 
the  other  hand,  the  subject  be  pleasant,  its  feelings  are 
those  of  joy  and  desire.  The  inevitable  result  of  these 
changing  apprehensions  is  interior  disorder:  joy  and 
grief,  hate  and  love  succeed  each  other,  and  there  is  no 
possibility  of  preserving  a  uniform  state  which  is  an 


250 


THE  ASCENT 


rBOOK  III.  ] 


effect  of  moral  tranquillity— but  by  the  studious  oblivion 
of  all  these.  It  is,  therefore,  quite  clear  that  this  know¬ 
ledge  of  the  memory  greatly  hinders  the  good  of  the 
moral  virtues. 

3.  A  cumbered  memory  also  hinders  the  mystical  or 
spiritual  good ;  for  the  disturbed  soul,  having  no  founda¬ 
tion  of  moral  good  is,  so  far,  incapable  of  that  which  is 
spiritual,  because  this  enters  into  no  soul,  that  is  not 
under  control  and  ordered  in  peace.  Besides,  if  the  soul 
cleaves  and  gives  heed  to  the  apprehensions  of  the 
memory— it  can  attend  to  but  one  thing  at  a  time  if  it 
occupies  itself  with  apprehensible  things,  for  such  are 
the  notions  of  the  memory,  it  is  impossible  that  it  can  be 
at  liberty  for  the  incomprehensible,  which  is  God.  For, 
as  I  have  already  said,*  the  soul  that  will  draw  near 
unto  God  must  do  so  by  not  comprehending,  rather  than 
by  comprehending ;  f  it  must  change  the  changeable 
and  the  comprehensible  for  the  unchangeable  and  in¬ 
comprehensible. 


CHAPTER  V. 

The  profitableness  ot  forgetfulness,  and  emptiness  vdth  regard 
to  all  thoughts  and  knowledge,  which  naturally  occur  to 
the  memory. 

The  evils  which  flow  into  the  soul,  through  the  apprehen¬ 
sions  of  the  memory,  suggest  to  us  the  opposite  benefits, 
which  result  from  forgetting  them  and  emptying  ourselves 
of  them  ;  because,  as  the  natural  philosophers  say,  the 
doctrine  of  contraries  is  the  same. 

*  Book  ii.  ch.  8.  f  St.  Teresa,  Life,  ch.  xviii.  §  18. 


[CHAP.  V.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL.  257 

2.  In  the  first  place,  the  soul  enjoys  tranquillity  and 
peace  of  mind,  because  it  is  delivered  from  the  harassing 
vexations  of  thoughts  and  notions  of  the  memory ;  and,  in . 
consequence,  what  is  of  more  importance,  the  conscience 
is  pure.  This  state  is  a  preparation  for  human  and 
divine  wisdom,  and  for  the  acquisition  of  virtue. 

3.  In  the  second  place,  it  is  delivered  from  many  sug¬ 
gestions,  temptations,  and  assaults  of  Satan,  who,  through 
these  thoughts,  insinuates  himself  into  the  soul,  and  at 
least  causes  it  to  fall  into  many  impurities  and,  as  I  have 
said,*  into  sin ;  as  it  is  written,  ‘  They  have  thought  and 
spoken  wickedness/ f  So  when  these  thoughts  are 
driven  away,  the  devil  has  no  weapon  wherewith  to 
assail  the  soul. 

4.  In  the  third  place,  while  the  soul  is  self-recollected, 
and  forgetful  of  all  things,  it  is  then  prepared  for  the 
inflowing  and  teaching  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  Who  ‘  will 
withdraw  Himself  from  thoughts  that  are  without  under¬ 
standing.’ f  Even  if  we  derived  no  greater  benefit 
from  this  forgetfulness  and  emptiness  of  the  memory, 
than  our  deliverance  from  pain  and  trouble,  that  of  itself 
is  a  great  gain  and  blessing  ;  because  the  pain  and 
troubles,  occasioned  by  the  adversities  of  this  life,  bring  no 
relief  with  them,  but  rather  aggravate  those  adversities 
in  general,  and  hurt  the  soul.  For  this  it  was  that  made 
David  say,  ‘  Surely  man  passeth  as  an  image,  yea,  and  he 
is  disquieted  in  vain.’ §  And  in  truth,  every  man  dis- 
quieteth  himself  in  vain  :  for  it  is  clear  that  disquietude 
is  always  vanity,  because  it  serves  to  no  good  Yea,  even 

*  Ch.  iii.  T  Ps.  lxxii.  8. 

t  VVisd.  i.  5.  §  Ps.  xxxviii. 

R 


THE  ASCENT 


258 


[book  iii.J 


if  the  whole  world  were  thrown  into  confusion,  and  all 
things  in  it,  disquietude  on  that  account  is  vanity,  for  it 
hurts  us  more  than  it  relieves  us.  To  endure  all  things, 
with  an  equable  and  peaceful  mind,  not  only  brings  with  it 
many  blessings  to  the  soul  ;  but  it  also  enables  us,  in  the 
midst  ot  our  difficulties,  to  have  a  clear  judgment  about 
them,  and  to  minister  the  fitting  remedy  for  them. 

5.  Solomon  knew  wellthe  advantage  of  this  disposition. 

‘  I  have  known/  saith  he  ‘  that  there  was  no  better  thing 
than  to  rejoice,  and  to  do  well  in  this  life  ;  * — that  is,  in 
all  the  events  of  this  life,  however  adverse  they  may  be, 
the  wise  man  bids  us  rejoice  rather  than  be  sad,  that  we 
may  not  lose  that  greatest  good,  peace  of  mind  in 
adversity  as  well  as  in  prosperity,  bearing  all  things 
alike.  This  peace  of  mind  no  man  will  ever  lose,  if  only 
he  will  forget  these  notions  and  cast  aside  thoughts,  and 
withdraw  from  the  sight,  and  hearing,  and  discussion  of 
matters,  so  far  as  it  is  possible  for  him.  We  are  naturally 
so  frail  and  weak,  that,  in  spite  of  all  self-discipline,  we 
can  scarcely  avoid  stumbling  on  the  recollection  of  many 
things,  which  disturb  and  disquiet  our  mind  ;  though  it 
may  have  been  once  established  in  peace  and  tranquillity, 
oblivious  of  all  things.  This  is  the  meaning  of  the 
prophet  when  he  said,  ‘  I  will  be  mindful  and  remember, 
and  my  soul  shall  languish  within  me.’f 


*  Eccles.  iii.  12. 


+  Lam.  iii.  20. 


[CHAP.  VI.] 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


250 


CHAPTER  VI. 

Of  the  second  kind  of  apprehensions  :  the  imaginary  and 

supernatural. 

Though,  while  treating  of  the  first  kind  of  natural 
apprehensions,  I  also  sufficiently  explained  the  imag  inary, 
which  are  also  natural,  it  was  necessary  to  make  this 
division,  because  of  the  attachment  of  the  memory  to 
other  forms  and  notions  of  supernatural  things:  such 
are  visions  and  revelations,  locutions  and  impressions, 
which  come  upon  us  in  a  supernatural  way.  When 
these  things  have  happened  to  the  soul,  the  image,  form, 
or  figure  of  them  remains  impressed  upon  it,  in  the 
memory  or  the  fancy  ;  and  sometimes  that  impression  is 
exceedingly  vivid.  It  is  necessary  to  caution  men  on 
this  subject:  that  the  memory  may  not  be  perplexed  by 
these  images,  and  that  they  may  not  prove  a  hindrance 
to  union  with  God  in  pure  and  perfect  hope. 

2.  I  say,  then,  that  in  order  to  attain  that  blessing,  the 
soul  must  never  reflect  upon  those  objects,  which  have 
been  clearly  and  distinctly  present  to  it  in  a  supernatural 
way,  so  as  to  preserve  the  forms,  notions,  and  figures  of 
them.  We  must  always  keep  this  principle  before  our 
eyes ;  the  more  the  soul  attends  to  any  clear  and  dis¬ 
tinct  apprehension,  natural  or  supernatural,  the  less  will 
be  its  capacity  and  disposition  for  entering  into  the  abyss 
of  faith,  wherein  all  things  else  are  absorbed.  For,  as  I 
said  before,*  no  supernatural  forms  or  knowledge,  ot 
which  the  memory  takes  cognisance,  are  God :  they  bear 

R2 


*  Cn.  i. 


260 


THE  ASCENT 


[LOOK  III.] 

no  proportion  to  Him,  neither  can  they  serve  as  proximate 

means  of  union  with  Him.  The  soul,  if  it  is  to  draw 
near  unto  God,  must  empty  itself  of  everything  that  is 
not  God ;  and  the  memory,  therefore,  must  also  get  rid 
of  all  forms  and  knowledge,  in  order  to  be  united  to 
Him  in  the  way  of  perfect  and  mystical  hope. 

3.  This  must  be  done;  for  all  possession  contradicts 
hope,  which,  as  the  Apostle  writes,  is  of  things  not  in 
possession;  ‘Faith  is  the  substance  of  things  to  be  hoped 
for,  the  evidence  of  things  that  appear  not.’*  Conse¬ 
quently,  the  more  the  memory  divests  itself,  the  greater  its 
hope;  and  the  greater  its  hope, the  greater  its  union  with 
God.  For  with  respect  to  God,  the  more  the  soul 
hopes,  the  more  it  obtains,  and  it  then  hopes  most 
when  it  is  most  divested ;  and  when  it  shall  be  per¬ 
fectly  divested,  it  will  then  have  the  possession  of  God, 
such  as  is  possible  on  earth  in  the  divine  union.  But 
there  are  many  souls,  who  will  not  deprive  themselves 
of  that  sweetness  and  delight,  which  the  memory  finds 
in  these  things,  and  who,  consequently,  never  attain 
to  this  supreme  possession  and  perfect  sweetness;  for 
he  ‘  that  doth  not  renounce  all  that  he  possesseth, 
cannot  be  a  disciple  ’f  of  Christ. 


CHAPTER  VII. 

The  evils  inflicted  on  the  soul  by  the  knowledge  of  supernatural 
things  if  reflected  upon.  Their  number. 

The  spiritual  man  exposes  himself  to  five  kinds  of  evils, 

if  he  attends  to,  and  reflects  on,  that  knowledge,  and 
*  Ilebr.  xi.  I.  +  St.  Luke  xiv.  33. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


261 


[chap.  VII.] 

those  forms,  which  are  impressed  upon  his  mind  by 
the  things  which  pass  through  it  in  a  supernatural 
way. 

The  first  is  frequent  illusions,  mistaking  one  thing 
for  another. 

The  second  is  proximate  occasions  of  presumption 
or  vain  glory. 

The  third  is  the  opportunities  of  deceiving,  which 
they  furnish  to  the  devil. 

The  fourth  is  hindrance  to  union  with  God  in  hope. 

The  fifth  is  low  views  of  God  for  the  most  part. 

2.  As  to  the  first  evil,  it  is  clear  that  if  the  spiritual  man 
attends  to,  and  reflects  upon,  these  notions  and  forms,  he 
must  be  frequently  deceived  in  his  judgment  about  them. 
For  as  no  man  can  thoroughly  comprehend  what  passes, 
in  the  order  of  nature,  into  his  imagination,  or  have  a 
sound  and  certain  opinion  about  it ;  much  less  will  he 
be  able  to  decide  correctly  about  supernatural  things, 
which  are  beyond  our  understanding  and  of  rare  occur¬ 
rence.  He  will  frequently  attribute  to  God  what  is  after 
all  but  fancies,  and  to  the  evil  spirit  what  is  from  God, 
and  to  God  what  is  from  satan.  Very  frequently,  good 
or  evil  to  others  or  to  himself  will  be  present  to  him 
through  these  forms  or  figures  :  and  he  will  consider 
them  most  certain  and  true,  and  yet  they  will  be  nothing 
else  but  utter  falsehoods.  Other  impressions  made  upon 
him  he  will  consider  false,  though  they  are  true ;  this, 
however,  I  consider  the  safer  course  of  the  two,  for  it 
usually  proceeds  out  of  humility. 

3.  But  if  he  is  not  deceived  as  to  their  truth,  he  may  be 


262 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.] 

as  to  their  kind  and  the  value  to  be  set  upon  them  ;  he 
may  look  upon  that  which  is  trifling  as  important,  and 
on  what  is  important  as  trifling.  And  as  to  their  nature, 
he  may  consider  what  his  imagination  presents  to  him 
to  be  of  this  or  that  kind,  when  it  is  not ;  putting  ‘  dark¬ 
ness  for  light,  and  light  for  darkness,  bitter  for  sweet, 
and  sweet  for  bitter.’*  Finally,  if  he  escapes  delusion  in 
one  thing,  it  will  be  surprising  if  he  does  in  the  next ; 
for  even  if  he  abstains  from  determining  anything  in  the 
matter,  it  is  sufficient,  if  he  attends  to  it  at  all,  to  bring 
some  detriment  upon  himself,  if  not  the  precise  one  of 
which  I  am  now  speaking,  yet  some  one  of  the  others  of 
which  I  shall  immediately  speak. 

4.  The  duty,  therefore,  of  the  spiritual  man  is,  if  he 
wishes  to  escape  from  the  delusions  of  his  own  judg¬ 
ment,  not  to  decide  himself  upon  his  own  state  or 
feelings,  or  what  such  visions,  knowledge,  or  impressions 
may  mean.  He  ought  not  to  desire  to  know  anything 
about  them,  nor  give  heed  to  them,  except  for  the 
purpose  of  manifesting  them  to  his  confessor,  that  he 
may  learn  from  him  how  to  empty  his  memory  of  these 
apprehensions,  or  what  in  every  case  may  be  most 
expedient  for  him,  in  the  same  spirit  of  detachment. 
For  be  these  things  what  they  may,  they  cannot  help  us 
to  love  God  so  much  as  the  least  act  of  earnest  faith  and 
hope  done  in  the  emptiness  of  all  things. 


Is.  V.  20. 


[CHAP.  VIII.] 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


263 


CHAPTER  VIII. 

Of  the  second  evil :  the  danger  of  self-conceit  and  presumption. 

These  supernatural  apprehensions  of  the  memory,  if 
attended  to,  or  regarded  at  all,  are  to  spiritual  men 
occasions  of  vanity  or  presumption.  For  as  he  who  has 
no  experience  of  them,  is  exceedingly  free  from  this  vice, 
because  he  sees  nothing  in  himself  whereon  to  presume ; 
so  on  the  other  hand  he,  to  whom  they  are  familiar,  has 
an  ever-present  reason  for  thinking  himself  to  be  some¬ 
thing,  seeing  that  he  is  the  object  of  these  visitations. 
It  is  very  true  that  he  may  attribute  all  to  God  and  give 
thanks,  looking  upon  himself  as  utterly  unworthy; 
nevertheless  a  certain  secret  self-satisfaction  and  conceit, 
on  the  subject  of  these  apprehensions,  will  grow  up  in 
the  mind,  out  of  wrhich,  unawares,  great  spiritual  pride 
will  arise.  Men  might  see  this  very  clearly,  if  they 
would  but  reflect  on  that  feeling  of  dislike  and  aversion 
produced  in  them  by  those,  who  do  not  commend  their 
spirit,  or  attribute  no  value  to  their  experiences,  and  on 
that  feeling  of  distress,  which  they  have  when  they  are 
told  that  others  also  have  the  like  or  greater  gifts.  All 
this  is  the  fruit  of  secret  self-esteem  and  pride,  and  they 
cannot  be  made  to  understand  that  they  are  steeped  in 
it  up  to  their  very  eyes. 

2.  They  think  that  a  certain  recognition  of  their  own 
wretchedness  is  sufficient,  while  at  the  same  time  they 
are  filled  with  secret  self-esteem  and  personal  satisfac¬ 
tion,  taking  more  delight  in  their  own  spirit  and  gifts 
than  in  those  of  another.  They  are  like  the  Pharisee 


264  THE  ASCENT  [BOOK  HI.] 

who  thanked  God  that  he  was  ‘  was  not  as  the  rest  of 
men,’  and  that  he  practised  such  and  such  virtues :  he 
was  satisfied  with  himself,  and  presumed  upon  his  state. 
‘  O  God,  I  give  Thee  thanks,’  said  he,  ‘  that  I  am  not  as 
the  rest  of  men,  extortioners,  unjust,  adulterers  ...  I 
fast  twice  in  a  week,  I  give  tithes  of  all  that  I  possess.’* 
Now  these  men  do  not  say  this  in  so  many  wx>rds,  as  the 
Pharisee  did,  but  they  habitually  think  so  ;  and  some  of 
them  even  become  so  proud  as  to  be  worse  than  devils. 
When  they  are  conscious  of  certain  feelings,  and  devo¬ 
tional  sweetness  in  the  things  of  God,  as  they  imagine, 
they  become  so  self-satisfied,  that  they  look  upon  them¬ 
selves  as  most  near  unto  God,  and  upon  others  uncon- 

i 

scious  of  the  like  feelings,  as  most  unworthy,  and  they 
despise  them  as  the  Pharisee  did  the  publican. 

3.  To  avoid  this  pestilent  evil,  abominable  in  the  sight 
of  God,  there  are  two  considerations  to  help  us.  The  first 
is  that  virtue  does  not  consist  in  these  apprehensions  and 
feelings  about  God,  however  sublime  they  may  be,  nor 
in  any  personal  experiences  of  this  kind,  but  on  the  con¬ 
trary,  in  that  which  is  not  matter  of  feeling  at  all, — in 
great  humility,  contempt  of  ourselves  and  of  all  that 
belongs  to  us,  profoundly  rooted  in  the  soul ;  and  in  being 
glad  that  others  have  the  same  opinion  of  us,  and  in  not 
wishing  to  be  thought  well  of  by  others  at  all. 

4.  The  second  is,  that  all  visions,  revelations,  and 
heavenly  feelings,  and  whatever  else  is  greater  than  these, 
are  not  worth  the  least  act  of  humility  bearing  the  fruits 
of  that  charity  which  neither  values  nor  seeks  itself,  which 


*  St.  Luke  xviii,  II,  12. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


265 


[CHAP.  IX.] 


thinketh  no  evil  except  of  self,  which  thinketh  well  not  of 
self,  but  of  all  others.  Let  men,  therefore,  cease  to  regard 
these  supernatural  apprehensions,  and  labour  rather  to 
forget  them,  that  they  may  be  free. 


CHAPTER  IX. 

Of  the  third  evil :  the  work  of  the  devil  through  the  imaginary 
apprehensions  of  the  memory. 

From  what  I  have  already  written,  we  may  gather  and 
learn  how  great  is  that  evil  which  the  devil  inflicts  on  the 
soul  through  these  supernatural  apprehensions.  Not 
only  can  he  represent  to  the  memory  and  the  fancy  many 
false  notions  and  forms  which  shall  seem  good  and  true, 
impressing  them  on  the  mind  and  senses  with  great 
effect  and  certainty  by  his  suggestions — and  this  in  such 
a  way  as  to  make  his  representations  be  taken  for  what 
they  pretend  to  be,  for  as  he  changes  himself  into  an 
angel,  he  will  seem  to  be  light  to  the  soul — but  also  in 
the  very  truths  of  God  he  can  tempt  us  in  divers  ways, 
by  communicating  unruly  motions  about  them  to  our 
desires  and  affections,  whether  spiritual  or  sensual.  For 
if  the  soul  takes  pleasure  in  these  apprehensions,  it  is 
very  easy  for  satan  to  increase  our  affections  and  desires, 
and  to  plunge  us  into  spiritual  gluttony  and  other 

evils. 

2.  And  that  he  may  succeed  the  better,  he  is  wont  to 
inspire  and  fill  the  senses  with  delight,  sweetness,  and 
pleasure,  in  the  things  of  God,  so  that  the  soul,  dazzled 
and  enervated  by  that  sweetness,  may  become  blind 


266 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.] 

through  pleasure,  and  set  itself  more  upon  sweetness 
than  upon  love — at  least  not  so  much  upon  love— and 
attach  greater  importance  to  these  apprehensions  than 
to  that  detachment  and  emptiness,  which  are  to  be  found 
in  faith  and  hope  and  the  love  of  God.  He  doeth  all 
this  that,  starting  from  that  point,  he  may,  by  little  and 
little,  delude  the  soul,  and  bring  it  to  believe,  with  great 
readiness,  all  his  lies.  For  the  soul  that  is  blind  con¬ 
siders  falsehood  to  be  falsehood  no  longer,  evil  not  to  be 
evil,  because  it  puts  darkness  for  light,  and  light  for 
darkness,  and  falls  into  endless  disorders.  That  which 
was  once  wine  is  turned  into  vinegar,  as  well  in  the 
natural  as  in  the  moral  and  spiritual  order.  All  this 
comes  upon  the  soul,  because  it  did  not  in  the  beginning 
deny  itself  in  the  pleasure  ministered  by  supernatural 
things.  And  as  this  pleasure  was  at  first  not  great  or 
not  so  hurtful,  the  soul  was  not  sufficiently  afraid  of  it, 
but  suffered  it  to  remain  and  grow,  as  the  grain  of 
mustard  grows  into  a  great  tree.  For,  as  it  is  said,  a 
slight  error  in  the  beginning  becomes  a  great  error  in  the 
end. 

3.  The  soul  that  will  escape  this  evil,  the  work  of  the 
devil,  must  not  take  any  pleasure  in  these  apprehensions? 
for  if  it  does  the  result  will  most  certainly  be  blindness, 
and  then  a  fall ;  for  delight  and  sweetness,  of  their  own 
proper  nature,  dull  and  blind  the  soul.  This  is  the 
meaning  of  David  when  he  said,  ‘  Perhaps  darkness  shall 
cover  me  ;  and  night  shall  be  my  light  in  my  pleasures 
that  is,  perhaps  darkness  shall  cover  me  in  my  pleasures- 
and  I  shall  take  night  for  my  light. 

*  Ps.  cxxxviii.  ii. 


[CHAP.  X.] 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


267 


CHAPTER  X. 

Of  the  fourth  evil  of  the  distinct  supernatural  apprehensions  of 
the  memory  :  the  impediment  to  union. 

There  is  not  much  to  be  said  here  about  the  fourth  evil, 
because  I  have  been  speaking-  of  it  throughout  this 
book :  I  have  said  that  the  soul,  in  order  to  be  united 
with  God  in  hope,  must  renounce  all  possession  in  the 
memory ;  because  nothing  that  is  not  God  must  remain 
in  the  memory,  if  our  hope  in  God  is  to  be  perfect.  No 
form,  or  figure  or  image,  natural  or  supernatural,  of 
which  the  memory  takes  cognisance  can  be,  or  resemble, 
God,  as  it  is  written,  ‘  There  is  none  among  the  gods  like 
unto  thee,  O  Lord  ;’*  and  therefore  if  the  memory  dwells 
upon  any  such  it  hinders  the  divine  union.  In  the  first 
place,  because  it  perplexes  itself ;  and  in  the  next, 
because  the  greater  its  occupation  the  less  perfect  its 
hope.  It  is  therefore  necessary  for  the  soul  to  forget, 
and  detach  itself  from,  all  distinct  forms  and  knowledge 
of  supernatural  things,  that  it  may  not  hinder  in  the 
memory,  the  divine  union  in  perfect  hope. 


CHAPTER  XI. 

Of  the  fifth  evil,  resulting  from  the  imaginary  supernatural  appre¬ 
hensions  :  low  and  unseemly  views  of  God. 

The  fifth  evil  is  no  less  hurtful  to  the  soul.  It  flows 
from  the  willing  retention,  in  the  imaginative  memory,  of 
the  forms  and  images  of  those  things  which  are  super- 
naturally  communicated  to  the  soul,  but  especially  then, 

*  Ps.  lxxxv.  8. 


268  THE  ASCENT  [BOOK  III.] 

when  we  would  apply  them  as  means  to  the  divine 
union.  It  is  a  very  easy  thing-  for  us  to  form  notions 
about  the  nature  and  greatness  of  God,  unworthy  of  and 
unbecoming  His  incomprehensible  being.  Though  our 
reason  and  judgment  may  withhold  us  from  forming  any 
express  decision  that  God  is  like  any  one  of  these  simili¬ 
tudes  ;  still  the  mere  consideration  of  these  apprehensions 
generates  in  the  soul  a  certain  esteem  and  sense  of  God 
which  are  not  so  high  as  faith  teaches ;  namely,  that  He 
transcends  all  comparison  and  all  comprehension.  For 
over  and  above  that  the  soul  takes  from  God  that  which 
it  gives  to  the  creature,  the  mere  consideration  of  these 
apprehensions  naturally  produces  within  it  a  certain 
comparison  of  them  with  God,  which  will  not  leave  it  to 
judge  of  God  as  it  ought  to  do.  For,  as  I  have  said 
before,*  no  creature  whatever,  in  heaven  or  on  earth,  no 
forms  or  images,  natural  or  supernatural,  cognisable  by 
our  faculties,  however  noble  they  may  be,  present  any 
comparison  or  proportion  with  the  being  of  God ; 
because  neither  genus  nor  species  includes  Him.  And 
in  this  life  the  soul  of  man  is  incapable  of  comprehending 
clearly  and  distinctly  anything  that  cannot  be  classed 
under  genus  and  species.  This  is  why  St.  John  said, 
‘No  man  hath  seen  God  at  any  time  ;T  and  Isaias  and 
St.  Paul,  ‘Neither  hath  it  entered  into  the  heart  of  man.’+ 
Yea,  God  himself  said  to  Moses,  ‘  Man  shall  not  see  Me 
and  live.’§  He,  therefore,  who  shall  perplex  his  memory 
and  the  other  powers  of  his  soul  with  matters  that  they 
can  comprehend,  will  never  think  and  feel  about  God  as 

he  ought  to  do. 

*  Bk  ii.  ch.  viii. 

+  Is.  lxiv.  4  ;  i  Cor.  ii.  9. 


t  St.  John  i.  18. 
§  Ex.  xxxiii.  20. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


269 


[chap.  XI.] 

2.  I  will  explain  my  meaning  by  a  somewhat  low 
comparison.  The  more  we  fix  the  eyes  of  our  regard 
upon  the  courtiers  of  a  king,  and  the  more  we  consider 
them,  the  less  will  be  our  reverence  and  respect  for  that 
king ;  for,  even  if  our  disesteem  of  him  be  not  formally 
and  distinctly  recognised  by  the  understanding,  it  is 
nevertheless  visible  in  our  conduct.  The  more  we 
attribute  to  the  courtiers  the  more  we  rob  their  king ; 
and  we  cannot  have  a  high  opinion  of  that  king  then, 
because  his  courtiers  are  so  respected  in  his  presence. 
This  is  the  soul’s  treatment  of  God  whenever  the  soul 
gives  heed  to  these  apprehensions.  This  illustration  is 
a  very  mean  one  ;  for  God  is  of  another  nature  than  all 
His  creatures,  infinitely  different  from  them  all. 

3.  These  apprehensions,  therefore,  must  be  put  out  of 
sight,  and  the  eyes  must  regard  none  of  them,  but  be  fixed 
upon  God  in  faith  and  perfect  hope.  Hence  those  who 
not  only  give  heed  to  these  apprehensions,  but  also  think 
that  God  is  like  unto  some  of  them,  and  that  by  their 
help  they  may  attain  unto  union  with  Him,  are  already 
fallen  into  grievous  error ;  they  do  not  profit  by  the  light 
of  faith  in  the  understanding,  which  is  the  means  by 
which  this  faculty  is  united  with  God,  neither  also  will 
they  grow  up  to  the  heights  of  hope,  which  is  the  means 
of  union  for  the  memory ;  that  union  must  be  effected, 
as  I  have  said,*  by  the  severance  of  the  memory  from 
all  imaginations  whatever. 


*  Book  ii.  ch.  vi. 


270 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.] 


CHAPTER  XII. 

The  benefits  of  withdrawing  the  soul  from  the  apprehensions  of 
the  imagination.  Answer  to  an  objection.  The  difference 
between  the  natural  and  supernaturalimaginaryapprehensions. 

The  benefits  that  result  from  emptying  the  imaginative 
faculty  of  these  imaginary  forms  become  manifest  by 
the  consideration  of  the  five  evils  which  they  inflict  on 
the  soul,  if  it  would  retain  them,  as  I  said  before  of 
the  natural  forms.*  But,  beside  these  benefits,  there 
are  others  of  perfect  rest  and  tranquillity  of  mind. 
For,  putting  aside  that  natural  rest  which  the  soul 
enjoys  when  it  has  set  itself  free  from  the  dominion  of 
images  and  forms,  it  is  also  delivered  from  the  anxiety 
of  ascertaining  whether  they  are  good  or  evil,  and  what 
conduct  it  ought  to  observe  with  reference  to  the  one 
and  the  other.  It  also  escapes  from  troubling  and 
wasting  the  time  of  its  confessors,  for  it  does  not  require 
them  to  determine  whether  these  things  are  good  or 
evil,  or  the  nature  of  them, — matters,  the  knowledge  of 
which  is  not  necessary  for  it,  for  all  it  has  to  do  is  to 
reject  them  in  the  sense  I  have  already  explained, f  and 
to  give  no  attention  whatever  to  them.  The  time  and 
strength,  thus  wasted,  will  be  then  employed  in  a  better 
and  more  profitable  way,  in  conforming  the  will  to  God, 
in  earnestly  striving  after  detachment,  poverty  of  sense 
and  spirit,  which  consists  in  a  willing  real  privation  of 
all  consoling  and  tangible  support,  interior  as  well  as 
exterior.  This  we  practise  well  when  we  seek  and 
strive  to  separate  ourselves  from  these  forms ;  the  issue 

t  Bk.  ii.  ch.  xvi. 


*  Book  ii.  ch.  xii. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


271 


|  CHAP.  XII.] 

of  which  will  be  that  inestimable  blessing  of  drawing 
near  unto  God,  Who  has  neither  image,  form,  nor  figure  ; 
and  that  blessing  will  be  proportional  to  our  estrange¬ 
ment  from  all  forms,  images,  and  figures. 

2.  You  will  here  perhaps  object,  and  say,  Why,  then, 
do  many  spiritual  directors  counsel  us  to  profit  by  these 
divine  communications  and  impressions,  and  to  desire 
the  gifts  of  God  that  we  may  have  wherewithal  to  give 
to  Him  in  return,  for  if  He  gives  nothing,  we  too 
have  nothing  to  give  unto  Him  r  Why  does  St.  Paul 
say,  ‘  Extinguish  not  the  Spirit?*  Why  does  the  Bride¬ 
groom  say  to  the  bride,  ‘  Put  Me  as  a  seal  upon  thy 
heart,  as  a  seal  upon  thy  arm’  ?f  This  seal  signifies  some 
apprehensions.  And  yet,  according  to  this  teaching,  we 
we  are  not  only  not  to  seek  them,  but,  even  if  God  sends 
them,  to  reject  them.  It  is  also  certain  that  God,  when 
He  sends  them,  sends  them  for  our  good,  and  that  their 
effects  will  be  good.  Pearls  are  not  to  be  thrown  away. 
Yea,  it  is  even  a  sort  of  pride  not  to  yield  a  willing 
reception  to  God’s  communications,  as  if  we  could  do 
without  them  in  our  own  strength. 

3.  I  refer  the  reader,  for  a  solution  of  this  difficulty, 
to  the  fifteenth  and  sixteenth  chapters  of  the  second 
book,  where  the  objection  has  been  in  great  measure 
replied  to.  I  said  there  that  the  benefits  of  the  super¬ 
natural  apprehensions,  when  they  are  from  God,  are 
passively  wrought  in  the  soul,  at  the  time  of  their 
presentation  to  the  senses,  without  the  co-operation  of 
our  faculties.  An  act  of  the  will  admitting  them  is 
therefore  unnecessary,  for,  as  I  have  said,  if  the  soul 

*  i  Tness.  v.  19.  t  Cant.  viii.  6. 


272 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.] 

will  then  exert  its  own  faculties,  the  effect  of  that  natural 
and  inferior  exertion  will  be  to  hinder  the  supernatural 
effects  then  wrought  by  God  through  their  intervention, 
rather  than  any  profit  from  that  active  exertion.  Yea, 
rather,  inasmuch  as  the  fruit  of  these  imaginary  appre¬ 
hensions  is  passively  communicated  to  the  soul ;  so  the 
soul  on  its  part  must  be  passively  disposed  in  relation  to 
them  without  any  interior  or  exterior  acts,  as  I  have 
already  explained.  This  is  really  to  preserve  the  divine 
impressions,  for  by  this  conduct  we  shall  not  destroy 
them  by  inferior  actions  of  our  own.  This,  too,  is  the 
way  not  to  extinguish  the  Spirit,  for  we  should  extin¬ 
guish  Him  if  we  attempted  to  walk  in  a  way  along  which 
God  does  not  lead  us.  We  should  be  doing  that  if, 
when  God  communicates  His  Spirit  to  us  passively,  as 
He  does  in  these  apprehensions,  we  should  then  actively 
exert  our  understanding,  or  seek  anything  in  them 
beside  and  beyond  that  which  God  communicates 
through  them. 

4.  This  is  evident ;  for  if  the  soul  then  exerts  itself 
its  action  will  be  only  natural,  or,  at  the  utmost,  if 
supernatural,  far  inferior  to  that  which  God  wills.  In  its 
own  strength  the  soul  cannot  do  more,  seeing  that  it 
neither  does,  nor  can,  influence  itself  supernaturally ;  it 
is  God  that  so  influences  it,  but  with  its  own  consent. 
If,  then,  the  soul  will  do  anything  itself,  it  will,  neces¬ 
sarily,  so  far  as  itself  is  concerned,  hinder  the  communi¬ 
cation  of  God,  that  is,  the  Spirit ;  because  it  has  recourse 
to  its  own  operations,  which  are  of  another  kind  and  far 
inferior  to  those  of  God.  This,  then,  is  to  extinguish 
the  Spirit.  The  inferiority  of  this  exertion  is  clear,  for 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


273 


[CHAP.  XII.] 

the  powers  of  the  soul,  in  their  ordinary  and  natural 
course,  cannot  act  or  reflect  but  upon  some  figure,  form, 
or  image ;  and  these  are  but  the  rind  and  accidents  of 
the  substance  and  of  the  spirit  hidden  beneath  them. 
I  his  substance  and  spirit  unite  not  with  the  powers  of 
the  soul  in  true  understanding  and  love,  until  the  reflex 
and  imperfect  action  of  those  powers  shall  have  ceased. 
The  end  and  aim  of  the  soul  in  this  exertion  is  to  receive 
in  itself  the  substance,  understood  and  loved,  which 
those  forms  involve.  The  difference  therefore  between 
the  active  and  passive  operation,  and  the  superiority  of 
the  latter,  is  the  same  as  that  between  a  work  in  the 
course  of  performance,  and  the  same  work  already 
performed ;  between  the  search  after  an  object,  and  that 
object  sought  and  found. 

5.  If  the  soul,  then,  will  actively  exert  its  faculties  on 
those  supernatural  apprehensions,  in  which  God,  as  I 
have  said,  communicates  passively  the  spirit  of  them,  it 
will  do  nothing  else  but  forsake  what  is  already  done,  in 
order  to  do  it  anew ;  and  so  will  have  no  enjoyment  of  it, 
neither  will  its  own  exertions  have  any  other  effect  than 
to  frustrate  what  God  hath  wrought.  Because,  as  I  have 
said,*  the  powers  of  the  soul  can  never  of  themselves 
attain  to  the  Spirit,  which  God  communicates  inde¬ 
pendently  of  them.  If  we  were  to  attach  any  importance 
to  these  imaginary  apprehensions,  we  should  directly 
extinguish  the  Spirit  which  God  infuses  through  them 
into  the  soul :  we  must  therefore  put  them  aside,  and 
observe  a  passive  conduct  in  their  regard,  for  God  is 
then  lifting  up  the  soul  to  things  above  its  power  and  its 

*  Bk.  ii.  ;  ch.  xvi. 

s 


274 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.J 

knowledge.  This  is  the  meaning  of  the  prophet  when 
he  said,  ‘I  will  stand  upon  my  watch,  and  fix  my  foot 
upon  the  tower;  and  I  will  watch  to  see  what  will  be 
said  to  me.'*  That  is,  I  will  keep  guard  over  my 
faculties,  and  will  not  suffer  them  to  move  a  step,  and  so 
shall  I  be  able  to  see  what  will  be  said  to  me ;  that  is, 
I  shall  understand  and  enjoy  what  God  will  communi¬ 
cate  to  me  supernaturally. 

6.  As  to  the  objection  founded  on  the  words  of  the 
Bridegroom,  those  words  refer  to  that  love  which  He 
demands,  the  function  of  which  is  to  make  the  beloved 
ones  resemble  each  other.  And  therefore  He  saith  to 
her,  ‘  Put  Me  as  a  seal  upon  thy  heart  ’  f — where  the 
arrows  strike  that  are  shot  forth  from  the  quiver  of  love, 
that  is,  the  actions  and  motives  of  love— so  that  all  the 
arrows  of  love  might  strike  Him,  being  there  as  a  target 
for  them,  and  that  all  may  thus  reach  Him,  and  the  soul 
become  like  unto  Him  through  the  actions  and  motives 
of  love  until  it  becomes  transformed  in  Him.  He  says 
also,  ‘  as  a  seal  upon  thy  arm.'  The  arm  implies  the 
exercise  of  love,  for  it  is  that  which  comforts  and  sustains 
the  beloved.  Therefore  all  we  have  to  do  with  these 
apprehensions,  which  come  upon  us  from  above,  as  well 
imaginary  as  of  every  other  kind,  whether  visions, 
locutions,  impressions,  or  revelations,  is,  making  no 
account  of  the  letter  or  the  outward  veil— that  is,  the 
significative  and  intelligible  fact— to  attend  only  to  the 
preservation  of  the  love  of  God  which  they  cause 
interiorly  in  the  soul.  It  is  in  this  sense  that  we  are  to 
make  much  of  these  impressions ;  not  of  the  sweet- 


Habac.  ii.  l. 


+  Cant.  viii.  6. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


275 


[CHAP.  XII.] 

ness  and  delight  of  them,  nor  of  the  figures,  but  of  the 
impressions  of  love  which  they  produce.  And  with  this 
object  only  in  view  we  may  probably  at  all  times  call  to 
mind  that  image  and  apprehension,  which  have  been  the 
occasion  of  love,  in  order  to  furnish  ourselves  with 
motives  of  love.  For  though  the  effect  of  that  appre¬ 
hension  be  not  so  great  when  recalled  to  mind  as  it  was 
when  it  was  first  communicated,  still  at  the  recollection 
of  it  our  love  is  renewed  and  our  minds  lifted  up  unto 
God  ;  especially  when  the  recollection  is  of  one  of  those 
supernatural  images,  figures,  or  impressions  which 
usually  so  impress  themselves  on  the  soul  that  they 
continue  for  some  time  there,  and  can  scarcely  be  driven 
away. 

7.  These  images,  thus  imprinted  on  the  soul,  produce 
whenever  they  are  adverted  to,  the  divine  effects  of  love, 
sweetness,  and  light,  sometimes  more,  sometimes  less, 
for  that  is  the  end  for  which  they  are  impressed  He 
with  whom  God  thus  deals  receives  a  great  gift,  for  he 
has  a  mine  of  blessings  within  himself.  The  images 
which  produce  such  effects  as  these  are  vividly  grounded 
in  the  spiritual  memory,  and  resemble  not  those  which 
the  fancy  preserves.  It  is  not  therefore  necessary  when 
we  would  remember  them  to  have  recourse  to  the  fancy, 
because  we  have  them  in  ourselves,  as  an  image  seen  in 
a  mirror.  And  whenever  a  soul  has  them  formally,  it 
may  then  profitably  recall  them  to  that  effect  of  love ; 
because  they  will  not  hinder  the  union  of  love  in  faith, 
when  we  do  not  dwell  upon  them,  but  make  use  of  them, 
towards  exciting  our  love,  and,  when  that  is  done, 
instantly  dismiss  them:  in  this  way  they  will  be  of 


S2 


THE  ASCENT 


276 


[HOOK  III.] 


service  to  us  towards  the  attainment  of  the  divine 
union. 

8.  It  is  difficult  to  determine  when  these  images  touch 
directly  the  spiritual  part  of  the  soul,  and  when  they 
are  only  in  the  fancy.  Those  of  the  fancy  are  usually 
very  frequent,  for  the  imagination  and  the  fancy  of  some 
people  are  full  of  imaginary  visions,  abundantly  present 
in  one  form  ;  whether  it  be  the  result  of  the  great  vigour 
of  that  organ  which,  after  the  slightest  effort  of  thought, 
represents  at  once  and  portrays  in  the  fancy  the  usual 
forms,  whether  it  be  the  work  of  satan,  or  whether  it  be 
the  work  of  God,  but  not  formally  impressed  on  the 
soul.  But,  however,  we  may  determine  their  nature  by 
their  effects.  Those  that  are  natural  or  diabolic  in  their 
origin,  however  accurately  remembered,  produce  no 
good  effect,  neither  do  they  spiritually  renew  the  soul, 
and  the  recollection  of  them  issues  only  in  dryness ; 
while  those  which  are  from  God  produce,  whenever 
remembered,  some  good  effect,  as  at  the  first  when 
originally  presented  to  the  soul.  The  formal  images, 
those  which  are  impressed  on  the  soul,  almost  always 
when  remembered,  produce  some  effect.  He  who  has 
these  will  easily  distinguish  the  one  from  the  other,  for 
the  difference  between  them  will  be  most  evident  after 
experience.  I  have  one  thing,  however,  to  say;  those 
which  are  formally  and  durably  impressed  on  the  soul 
are  of  very  rare  occurrence.  But  of  whatever  kind  they 
may  be,  the  good  of  the  soul  consists  in  not  seeking  to 
comprehend  anything  save  God  alone  by  faith  in  hope. 

9.  Finally,  as  to  that  objection  which  charges  him  with 
pride  who  rejects  these  things  when  they  are  good,  I 


277 


[CHAP.  XIII.  J  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

reply  that  it  is  a  prudent  humility  to  use  them  in  the 
best  way,  as  I  have  shown,  and  to  guide  our  steps  by 
the  road  that  is  safest. 


CHAPTER  XIII. 

Of  spiritual  knowledge  as  it  relates  to  memory. 

The  third  kind  of  apprehensions  of  the  memory  is 
spiritual  knowledge :  not  because  it  belongs  to  the 
bodily  sense  of  the  fancy,  like  the  rest,  but  because  it  is 
also  cognisable  by  the  spiritual  reminiscence  and 
memory.  When  the  soul  has  once  had  one  of  this 
kind,  it  may,  when  it  wills,  call  it  to  mind,  not  by  reason 
of  the  figure  and  image  which  the  apprehension  thereof 
may  have  left  behind  in  the  bodily  sense— for  that  is 
incapable  of  receiving  spiritual  forms— but  because  it 
intelligently  and  spiritually  remembers  it  by  that  form 
of  it  which  remains  impressed  on  the  soul—  which  is  also 
a  form,  or  image,  or  knowledge  spiritual  or  formal,  by 
which  the  soul  remembers  it— or  by  the  effect  it  has 
wrought.  This  is  the  reason  why  I  place  these  appre¬ 
hensions  among  those  of  the  memory,  though  not 
belonging  directly  to  the  fancy. 

2.  The  nature  of  this  knowledge,  and  the  conduct 
to  be  observed  by  the  soul  with  reference  to  it,  in  order 
to  be  united  with  God,  has  been  sufficiently  explained  in 
the  twenty-fourth  chapter  of  the  second  book,  where  I 
treated  of  it  as  an  apprehension  of  the  understanding. 
You  will  there  find  that  there  are  two  kinds  of  them,  one 
of  uncreated  perfections,  another  of  creatures.  I  am 


278 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III. 

now  speaking  only  so  far  as  it  touches  this  part  of  my 
subject ;  namely,  the  conduct  of  the  memory  in  the 
matter.  I  say  again,  as  I  did  of  the  formal  impressions 
in  the  preceding  chapter  -  for  these  are  of  the  same  kind, 
being  of  created  things — that  they  may  be  remembered 
when  the  effect  of  them  is  good,  not,  indeed,  for  the 
purpose  of  dwelling  upon  them  but  for  quickening  our 
love  and  knowledge  of  God.  But  if  the  recollection  of 
them  produces  not  this  effect,  the  memory  should  never 
busy  itself  with  them.  But  as  to  the  knowledge  of  the 
uncreated  perfections,  that  may  be  remembered  as  often 
as  we  can,  for  it  will  produce  great  results  ;  for  that  is, 
as  I  said  before,  touches  and  impressions  of  the  divine 
union  towards  which  I  am  directing  the  soul.  The 
memory  does  not  remember  these  by  the  help  of  any 
form,  image,  or  figure  that  may  have  been  impressed  on 
the  soul — for  none  such  belong  to  the  touches  and 
impressions  of  union  with  the  Creator — but  only  by  their 
effects  of  light,  love,  joy,  and  spiritual  renewing,  some 
of  which,  as  often  as  they  are  remembered,  are  wrought 
anew  in  the  soul. 


CHAPTER  XIV. 

General  directions  for  the  guidance  of  the  spiritual  man  in 
relation  to  the  memory. 

To  conclude,  then,  this  subject  of  the  memory,  it 
may  be  as  well  here  to  furnish  the  spiritually-minded 
reader  with  certain  brief  directions,  of  universal  applica¬ 
tion,  how  he  is  to  unite  himself,  in  the  memory,  with 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


279 


[CHAP.  XIV.] 

God.  For,  notwithstanding  that  the  matter  has  been 
sufficiently  discussed,  it  will  be  more  easily  grasped,  if  I 
repeat  it  here  concisely.  Having  this  in  view,  then,  we 
must  remember,  that  my  object  is  the  union  of  the  soul 
with  God  in  the  memory  by  hope.  Now,  that  which  we 
hope  for  is  what  we  possess  not,  and  the  less  we  possess 
the  greater  scope  we  have  for  hoping,  and,  consequently, 
the  greater  the  perfection  of  hope ;  while,  on  the  other 
hand,  the  more  we  possess  the  less  room  is  there  for  hope, 
and,  consequently,  the  less  is  the  perfection  of  hope. 
Accordingly  the  more  the  soul  strips  the  memory  of  forms 
and  reminiscible  matters,  which  are  not  the  divinity  oi 
God  incarnate — the  recollection  of  Him  always  subserves 
our  true  end,  for  He  is  the  way,  the  guide,  and  the 
source  of  all  good — the  more  it  will  fix  the  memory  on 
God,  and  the  more  empty  it  will  make  it,  so  that  it  shall 
hope  for  Him  Who  is  the  fulness  of  it. 

2.  What  we  have  to  do,  then,  in  order  to  live  in 
the  simple  and  perfect  hope  of  God,  whenever  these 
forms,  knowledge,  and  distinct  images  occur,  is,  not  to 
fix  our  minds  upon  them  but  to  turn  immediately  to  God, 
emptying  the  memory  of  all  such  matters,  in  loving 
affection,  without  regarding  or  considering  them  more 
than  suffices  to  enable  us  to  understand  and  perform  our 
obligations,  if  they  have  any  reference  thereto.  We 
must  do  this  without  taking  any  satisfaction  in  them,  in 
order  that  they  may  leave  no  disturbing  effects  behind. 
And  therefore  we  must  not  omit  to  think  of,  and 
remember,  those  things  which  it  is  our  duty  to  do  and  to 
know;  for  in  that  case,  provided  no  selfish  attachments 
intrude,  these  recollections  will  do  no  harm.  Those 


THE  ASCENT 


280 


[book  iii.J 


sentences  of  the  thirteenth  chapter  of  the  first  book  will 
be  profitable  to  us  in  this  matter. 

3.  But,  my  dear  reader,  bear  in  mind  that  I  have 
nothing,  and  will  have  nothing,  in  common  with  the 
opinions  of  those  pestilent  men  who,  full  of  the  pride 
and  hate  of  satan,  labour  to  destroy  among  the  faithful 
the  holy  and  necessary  use,  and  noble  worship,  of  the 
images  of  God  and  the  saints.  My  principles  are  very 
different  from  theirs ;  for  I  am  not  saying  that  images 
ought  not  to  be  allowed,  and  worshipped,  as  they  do ; 
but  I  only  show  the  difference  between  them  and  God, 
teaching  men  to  make  use  of  the  sign  in  such  a  way  as 
that  it  shall  not  hinder  their  progress  to  the  reality,  by 
resting  upon  it  more  than  is  sufficient  for  their  spiritual 
advancement. 

4.  Means  are  necessary'  to  the  end ;  such  are  images, 
for  they  remind  us  of  God  and  His  saints.  But  when 
we  dwell  upon  the  means  more  than  the  nature  of  such 
means  demands,  we  are  then  hindered  and  perplexed. 
How  much  more,  then,  must  this  be  the  case  with  those 
interior  images  and  and  visions  which  are  formed  within 
the  soul  ?  These  are  liable  to  innumerable  risks  and 
illusions.  But  with  regard  to  the  memorial,  worship, 
and  veneration  of  those  images,  which  our  holy  mother 
the  Church  sets  before  us,  there  can  be  neither  risk  nor 
delusion ;  and  the  recollection  of  them  cannot  fail  to  be 
profitable,  because  it  is  always  connected  with  love  of 
what  they  represent.  And  when  the  memory  makes 
this  use  of  images  they  will  always  help  it  on  towards 
the  divine  union,  if  it  permits  the  soul  to  fly  upwards, 
when  God  grants  this  grace,  from  the  image  to  the 


281 


[CHAP.  XV.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

reality,  in  forgetfulness  of  the  creature  and  all  that 
belongs  to  it. 


CHAPTER  XV. 

Of  the  dark  night  of  the  will.  Proofs  from  Deuteronomy  and 
the  Psalms.  Division  of  the  affections  of  the  will. 

We  have  done  nothing  by  the  purification  of  the  under¬ 
standing  towards  grounding  it  in  faith,  and  that  of  the 
memory  in  hope— according  to  the  sense  explained  in 
the  sixth  chapter  of  the  second  book — if  we  have  not 
also  purified  the  will  in  the  order  of  charity,  which  is  the 
third  virtue,  and  by  which  works  done  in  faith  are  living 
and  meritorious,  and  without  which  they  are  nothing 
worth.  For  as  St.  James  saith,  ‘Faith  without  works 
is  dead.’*  That  is,  without  the  works  of  charity  faith  is 
dead. 

2.  And  now  that  I  have  to  treat  of  the  night  and 
active  detachment  of  the  will,  with  a  view  to  its  perfect 
establishment  in  this  virtue  of  the  love  of  God,  I  cannot 
find  a  better  authority  than  that  contained  in  Deutero¬ 
nomy:  ‘Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  thy 
whole  heart,  and  with  thy  whole  soul,  and  with  thy 
whole  strength.’ f  This  is  all  that  the  spiritual  man 
ought  to  do— and  all  that  I  am  teaching  him— that  he 
may  truly  draw  near  unto  God  in  the  union  of  the  will 
with  God  in  love.  Man  is  here  bidden  to  employ  for 
God  all  his  faculties  and  desires,  all  the  functions  and 
affections  of  the  soul,  so  that  all  the  skill  and  all  the 

strength  of  the  soul  may  minister  to  no  other  end  than 
*  S.  James  ii.  20.  t  Deuier.  vi.  J, 


282 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.] 


this,  as  the  Psalmist  says :  ‘  I  will  keep  my  strength  to 
Thee.’*  The  strength  of  the  soul  consists  in  its  powers, 
passions,  and  desires,  all  of  which  are  governed  by  the 
will.  But  when  the  will  directs  these  powers,  passions, 
and  desires  to  God,  and  turns  them  away  from  all  that 
is  not  God,  it  then  keeps  the  strength  of  the  soul  for 
God,  and  loves  Him  with  its  whole  strength.  And  that 
the  soul  may  be  able  to  do  this,  I  purpose  here  to  show 
how  the  will  is  to  be  purified  from  all  unruly  affections ; 
which  are  the  cause  why  our  strength  is  not  wholly  kept 
for  God. 


3.  These  affections  or  passions  are  four  in  number  : — 
Joy,  hope,  grief,  and  fear.  If  these  passions  are  excited  only 
according  to  reason,  in  the  way  of  God,  so  that  we  feel 
no  joy  except  in  that  which  is  simply  for  the  honour  and 
glory  of  our  Lord  God,  nor  hope  except  in  Him,  nor  grief 
except  in  what  concerns  Him,  nor  fear  but  of  Him  only,  it 
is  clear,  then,  that  the  strength  and  skill  of  the  soul  are 
directed  to,  and  kept  for,  God.  For  the  more  the  soul 
rejoices  in  aught  beside  Him,  the  less  effectively  will  it 
rejoice  in  God,  and  the  more  it  hopes  in  aught  else,  the 
less  will  it  hope  in  God.  The  same  applies  to  the  other 
passions  also. 

4.  In  order  to  a  more  complete  explanation  of  this  I 
shall,  as  usual,  speak  of  each  of  these  passions  and  desires 
the  will  separately,  for  the  whole  matter  of  union  with 
God  consists  in  purging  the  will  of  its  affections  and 
desires,  so  that  the  vile  and  human  will  may  become  the 
divine  will,  being  made  one  with  the  will  of  God. 

5.  These  four  passions  domineer  over  the  soul,  and 

*  Ps.  lviii.  io. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


283 


[CHAP.  XV.] 

assail  it  with  the  more  vigour,  the  less  the  will  is  attached 
to  God,  and  the  more  dependant  it  is  on  created  things  ; 
for  it  then  rejoices  easily  in  those  things  which  do  not 
deserve  to  be  rejoiced  in,  hopes  in  that  which  is  value¬ 
less,  grieves  over  that  tor  which  perhaps  it  ought  to 
rejoice,  and  fears  where  there  is  nothing  to  be  afraid 
of. 

5.  It  is  from  these  affections,  when  disorderly,  that  all 
the  vices  and  imperfections  of  the  soul  arise  ;  and  all  its 
virtues  also,  when  they  are  well  governed  and  restrained. 
Let  us  remember  that  if  but  one  of  them  be  under  the 
control  of  reason,  so  will  the  others  be  also  ;  for  they  are 
so  intimately  bound  together,  that  the  actual  course  of 
one  is  the  virtual  course  of  the  rest,  and  if  one  of  them  be 
actually  restrained,  the  others  will  be  proportionately 
restrained  also.  For  if  the  will  rejoices  in  anything,  it 
will  consequently  hope  in  the  same  measure,  and  there 
grief  and  fear  are  virtually  present ;  and  as  that  joy 
ceases,  in  the  same  proportion  cease  also  grief  and  fear 
and  hope. 

6.  The  will  with  its  four  passions  may  be  said,  in  some 
sense,  to  be  represented  by  the  four  living  creatures  with 
one  body  which  Ezechiel  saw :  ‘  They  had  faces  and 
wings  on  the  four  sides.  And  the  wings  of  one  were 
joined  to  the  wings  of  another.  They  turned  not  when 
they  went,  but  every  one  went  straight  forward.’*  The 
wings  of  each  one  of  these  four  affections  are  joined  to 
the  wings  of  the  others,  and  whithersoever  one  of  them 
goes  there  also  of  necessity  go  virtually  the  others.  When 

one  of  them  goeth  on  the  earth  so  do  the  others,  and 

*  Ezech.  i.  8,  9. 


284 


THE  ASCENT 


[book  m.] 


when  one  is  lifted  up,  so  the  others  also.  Where  hope  is, 
there  also  will  be  joy  and  fear  and  grief ;  and  when  one 
has  retired,  the  others  retire  also. 

8.  Remember,  therefore,  O  thou  who  art  spiritual,  that 
the  whole  soul,  with  the  will  and  its  other  powers,  will 
follow  in  the  wake  of  every  one  of  these  passions ;  that 
they  will  be  all  captives  to  it,  and  that  the  three  other 
passions  also  will  live  in  it,  afflicting  the  soul  and 
preventing  its  flight  to  the  liberty  and  repose  of  sweet 
contemplation  and  union.  And  so  Boethius  says:  Wilt 
thou  contemplate  truth  in  clear  light  ?  Drive  away  joy 
and  hope  and  fear  and  grief.*  For  while  these  passions 
have  dominion,  they  will  not  suffer  the  soul  to  enjoy  that 
tranquillity  and  peace  which  are  necessary  for  the 
attainment  of  wisdom,  either  natural  or  supernatural. 


CHAPTER  XVI. 

Of  the  first  affection  of  the  will.  What  joy  is.  Its  diverse 

sources. 

The  first  of  the  passions  of  the  soul  and  of  the  affections 
of  the  will  is  joy,  which,  in  the  sense  I  speak  of,  is 
nothing  else  but  a  certain  satisfaction  of  the  will  joined 
to  the  appreciation  of  the  object  it  regards;  for  the  will 
has  no  joy  except  when  it  appreciates  an  object  and  is 
satisfied  with  it.  This  refers  to  active  joy,  to  that  joy 
which  the  soul  feels  when  it  clearly  and  distinctly  per- 

*  ‘  Tu  quoque,  si  vis  lumine  claro  cernere  Verum, 

.  .  .  Gaudia  pelle,  pelle  timorem,  spemque  fogato, 

Ne  dolor  assit.'  Boet.  de  Cons.  Phil.  lib.  i.  metr.  viL 


[CHAP.  XVI.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL.  285 

ceives  why  it  rejoices,  and  when  it  is  in  its  own  power 
to  rejoice  or  not.  For  there  is  another  joy,  which  is 
passive:  when  the  soul  finds  itself  rejoicing,  without 
clearly  perceiving— and  sometimes  even  perceiving — 
why  it  rejoices,  it  being  out  of  its  power  at  that  time  to 
control,  or  not  control,  that  joy.  I  shall  speak  of  this 
hereafter.*  I  am  now  speaking  of  that  joy,  active  and 
voluntary,  which  is  derived  from  clear  and  distinct 
perceptions  of  things. 

2.  Joy  arises  out  of  six  different  sources  :  temporal, 
natural,  sensual,  moral,  supernatural,  and  spiritual  good. 
I  shall  speak  of  these  successively,  for  we  have  so  to 
order  the  will  with  regard  to  them,  that,  unembarrassed 
by  them,  it  may  not  omit  to  place  the  strength  of  its  joy 
in  God.  And  for  this  end  there  is  one  truth  which  we 
must  take  for  granted,  and  lean  upon  as  upon  a  staff, 
which  must  be  thoroughly  understood,  for  it  is  the  light 
by  which  we  are  to  be  guided,  in  which  this  doctrine  is 
to  be  regarded,  and  by  which  our  joy  in  all  these  goods 
is  to  be  directed  unto  God.  That  truth  is  this :  The 
will  ought  to  rejoice  in  nothing  but  in  that  which  tends 
to  the  honour  and  glory  of  God  ;  and  that  to  serve  Him 
in  evangelical  perfection  is  the  greatest  honour  we  can 
render  Him  :  whatever  is  beside  this  is  of  no  value  nor 
of  any  use  to  man. 


*  Dark  Night  Bk.  ii.,  ch.  si. 


286 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.J 


CHAPTER  XVII. 


Of  joy  in  temporal  goods.  How  it  is  to  be  directed. 

The  first  source  of  joy  I  mentioned  is  temporal  good  ; 
by  which  I  mean  riches,  rank,  office,  and  other  dignities; 
children,  relations,  and  alliances.  All  these  are  matters 
in  which  the  will  may  rejoice.  But  what  vanity  to 
rejoice  in  riches,  rank,  titles,  offices,  and  the  like,  after 
which  men  are  striving  !  If  a  man’s  wealth  made  him  a 
better  servant  of  God,  he  might  rejoice  in  his  riches  ; 
but  riches  are  rather  occasions  of  sin,  as  the  wise  man 
saith  :  ‘  My  son  ...  if  thou  be  rich,  thou  shalt  not  be 
free  from  sin.’*  It  is  very  true  that  temporal  goods  are 
not  necessarily,  in  themselves,  occasions  of  sin,  yet 
generally,  by  reason  of  our  frailty,  the  heart  sets  itself 
upon  them,  and  falls  away  from  God,  which  is  sin.  The 
wise  man  therefore  says,  that  the  rich  shall  not  be  free 
from  sin. 

2.  Our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  in  the  gospel,  calls  riches 
thorns, f  that  we  may  learn  that  he  who  shall  set  his  will 
upon  riches  will  be  wounded  by  sin.  Those  fearful  words 
recorded  by  St.  Matthew,  ‘Amen,  I  say  to  you,  that  a 
rich  man  shall  hardly  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven, ’+ 
show  us  plainly  that  a  man  ought  not  to  rejoice  in  his 
riches,  because  they  expose  him  to  so  great  a  danger. 
David  also  bids  us  withdraw  ourselves  from  riches, 
saying,  ‘If  riches  abound,  set  not  your  heart  upon  them.’ § 
I  will  not  allege  further  proof  in  a  matter  so  clear,  for 


*  Ecclus.  xi.  io. 

£  St.  Matt.  xix.  23. 


t  St.  Matt.  xiii.  22. 
§  Ps.  Ixi.  11. 


287 


[CHAP.  XVII.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

when  shall  I  have  said  all  the  evils  of  them  that  Solomon 
hath  said  ?  Solomon  was  a  man  full  of  wisdom  and  of 
great  riches,  and  he  knew  well  what  they  were  when  he 
said,  ‘  I  have  seen  all  things  that  are  done  under  the 
sun,  and  behold  all  is  vanity  and  vexation  of  spirit 
.  .  .  and  a  fruitless  solicitude  of  the  mind.’*  And,  ‘He 
that  loveth  riches  shall  reap  no  fruit  from  them.’  f  And 
again,  ‘Riches  kept  to  the  hurt  of  the  owner.’  +  An 
instance  of  this  we  have  in  the  gospel.  A  rich  man, 
because  his  harvest  was  abundant,  rejoiced  in  his  expec¬ 
tation  of  years  of  comfort :  ‘  But  God  said  to  him,  thou 
fool,  this  night  do  they  require  thy  soul  of  thee;  and 
whose  shall  those  things  be  which  thou  hast  provided  ?’§ 
The  Psalmist  also  teaches  us  the  same  truth,  saying, 
‘  Be  not  thou  afraid  when  a  man  shall  be  made  rich  .  .  . 
for  when  he  shall  die,  he  shall  take  nothing  away ;  nor 
shall  his  glory  descend  with  him;’|| — that  is,  we  are  not 
to  envy  our  neighbour  because  he  is  grown  rich,  for  his 
riches  will  not  profit  him  in  the  life  to  come ;  yea,  rather 
let  us  pity  him. 

3.  The  sum  of  the  matter  is  this :  let  no  man  rejoice  in 
his  own  or  in  his  brother’s  wealth,  unless  it  be  that  it 
tends  to  the  better  service  of  God.  If  rejoicing  in  riches 
can  be  made  in  any  way  endurable,  it  is  when  we  spend 
and  employ  them  for  God ;  for  there  is  no  other  way  of 
making  them  profitable.  The  same  principle  applies  to 
the  temporal  goods  of  title,  rank,  and  office ;  all  rejoicing 
in  which  is  vanity,  unless  we  feel  that  these  things 

enable  us  to  serve  God  better,  and  that  they  make  the 

*  Eccles.  i.  14  ;  ii.  26.  t  lb.  v.  9. 

X  lb.  v.  12.  §  St.  Luke  xii.  20. 

U  Ps.  xlviii.  17,  18. 


288 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.] 


way  to  eternal  life  more  secure.  And  as  we  can  never 
be  sure  that  these  thing's  enable  us  to  serve  God  better, 
it  will  be  vanity  to  rejoice  deliberately  in  them,  because 
such  a  joy  can  never  be  reasonable.  For  as  our  Lord 
saith  :  ‘For  what  doth  it  profit  a  man  if  he  gain  the 
whole  world,  and  suffer  the  loss  of  his  own  soul  r* 
There  cannot  be  anything  worth  rejoicing  in  except  that 
which  makes  us  better  servants  of  our  God. 

4.  Neither  are  men  to  rejoice  in  their  children,  because 
they  are  many,  rich,  endowed  with  abilities  and  natural 
graces,  and  prosperous,  but  only  in  that  they  serve  God. 
Neither  the  beauty,  nor  the  wealth,  nor  the  lineage  of 
Absalom  the  son  of  David  profited  him  at  all,  because 
he  served  not  God.  To  rejoice  in  such  a  son  would  have 
been  vanity.  It  is  also  vanity  to  desire  children  ;  as 
some  do  who  disturb  the  world  with  their  fretting ;  for 
they  know  not  if  their  children  will  be  good  and  servants 
of  God.  They  know  not  whether  the  pleasure  they 
expect  from  them  may  not  be  turned  into  pain,  tran¬ 
quillity  and  consolation  into  trouble  and  disquietude, 
honour  into  disgrace  ;  and,  finally,  whether  they  shall 
not  be  to  them  greater  occasions  of  sinning  against  God, 
as  is  the  case  with  many.  Christ  has  said  of  these  that 
they  compass  sea  and  land  to  enrich  themselves  and  to 
make  themselves  twofold  the  children  of  perdition : 
‘  You  go  round  about  the  sea  and  the  land  to  make  one 
proselyte  :  and  when  he  is  made,  you  make  him  the  child 
of  hell  twofold  more  than  yourselves.’ f 

5.  If  a  man’s  affairs  are  prosperous,  if  his  undertakings 
succeed,  and  all  his  wishes  are  gratified,  he  ought  to 

*  St.  Matt.  xvi.  26.  +  St.  Matt,  xxiii.  15. 


[CHAP.  XVII.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


289 


fear  rather  than  rejoice,  for  this  is  a  dangerous  occasion 
of  forgetting,  and  offending  against,  God.  It  was  for 
this  cause  that  Solomon  was  cautious,  saying:  ‘Laughter 
I  counted  error ;  and  to  mirth  I  said  :  Why  art  thou 
vainly  deceived  ?’  *  It  is  as  if  he  said  :  when  all  things 
smiled  upon  me  I  counted  it  error  and  delusion  to 
rejoice  therein  ;  for,  beyond  all  doubt,  it  is  a  great  error 
and  folly  on  the  part  of  man  if  he  rejoices  in  the  sun¬ 
shine  of  prosperity,  when  he  does  not  know  for  certain 
that  it  will  lead  to  any  durable  good.  '  ‘  The  heart  of  the 
wise  is  where  there  is  mourning,’  saith  Solomon,  ‘  and 
the  heart  of  fools  where  there  is  mirth.’f  Vain  rejoicing 
blinds  the  heart,  makes  it  inconsiderate  and  thoughtless, 
but  mourning  opens  our  eyes  to  the  vision  of  our  loss 
and  gain.  This  is  the  reason  why  the  wise  man  saith 
that  ‘  anger  is  better  than  laughter ;  ’  +  and  that  ‘  it  is 
better  to  go  to  the  house  of  mourning  than  to  the  house 
of  feasting ;  for  in  that  we  are  put  in  mind  of  the  end  of 
all,  and  the  living  thinketh  what  is  to  come.’§ 

6.  It  is  also  vanity  for  a  wife  or  a  husband  to 
rejoice  in  marriage,  for  they  know  not  whether  they  shall 
serve  God  the  better  in  that  state.  Yea,  rather  they 
should  feel  humbled,  because,  as  the  Apostle  saith, 
marriage  leads  them  to  set  their  affections  upon  each 
other,  and  not  to  give  their  heart  whole  unto  God.  This 
is  why  he  said  :  ‘  Art  thou  loosed  from  a  wife  ?  seek  not 
a  wife.’  ||  He  that  is  married  ought  to  live  with  freedom 
of  heart,  as  if  he  had  not  been  married.  The  Apostle 


*  Eccles.  ii.  2. 
t  Eccles.  vii.  4. 


t  lb.  vii.  5. 
§  lb.  vii.  3. 


||  1  Cor.  vii.  27. 


T 


290 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.] 

teaches  the  same  doctrine  with  regard  to  all  temporal 
goods,  saying  :  *  This,  therefore,  I  say,  brethren,  the  time 
is  short ;  it  remaineth  that  they  also  who  have  wives  be 
as  if  they  had  none ;  and  they  that  weep,  as  though  they 
wept  not;  and  they  that  rejoice,  as  if  they  rejoiced  not ; 
and  they  that  buy,  as  though  they  possessed  not ;  and 
they  that  use  this  world,  as  if  they  used  it  not.’  *  The 
Apostle  teaches  that  to  rejoice  in  anything  which  tendeth 
not  to  the  service  of  God  is  vanity  and  without  profit, 
for  all  joy  which  is  not  in  God  brings  no  good  to  the 
soul. 


CHAPTER  XVIII. 

Of  the  evils  resulting  from  joy  in  temporal  goods. 

If  I  were  to  describe  all  the  evils  that  environ  the  soul 
when  the  affections  of  the  will  are  set  upon  temporal 
goods,  paper  and  ink  would  fail  me,  and  time  itself 
would  be  too  short.  Slight  beginnings  issue  in  great 
evils,  and  in  the  ruin  of  great  prosperity.  A  spark, 
unquenched,  kindles  a  great  fire,  which  may  burn  up  the 
whole  world.  All  these  evils  have  their  root  and  origin 
in  one  principal  evil  of  a  negative  character  involved  in 
this  joy,  namely,  a  departure  from  God. 

2.  For,  as  the  drawing  near  of  the  soul  unto  God 
with  the  affection  of  the  will  is  the  source  of  all  good, 
so  the  going  away  from  Him,  through  love  of  created 
things,  issues  in  all  evils  and  calamities,  in  proportion  to 
the  joy  and  affection  which  unite  us  to  the  creature.  This 


*  I  Cor.  vii.  29,  30. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


291 


[CHAP.  XVIII.] 

is  the  departure  from  God.  In  proportion,  therefore,  to 
our  departure  from  God,  more  or  less,  will  be  the  evils 
resulting-  from  it  in  greater  or  less  extent  and  gravity ; 
and  for  the  most  part  they  are  at  once  most  extensive 
and  most  grave. 

3.  There  are  four  degrees,  one  worse  than  the 
other,  in  this  negative  evil,  from  which  all  the  other  evils, 
negative  and  positive,  proceed.  And  when  the  fourth 
degree  is  reached,  all  the  evils  involved  in  this  case  will 
have  fallen  upon  the  soul.  These  four  degrees  are 
described  in  the  following  words  of  Moses  ‘The  beloved 
grew  fat  and  kicked  ;  he  grew  fat,  and  thick,  and  gross  , 
he  forsook  God,  who  made  him,  and  departed  from  God 
his  salvation.’  * 

4.  This  growing  fat  of  the  soul,  once  beloved,  is 
its  absorption  in  the  joy  of  created  things.  Hence  the 
first  degree  of  evil,  going  backwards ;  it  is  a  certain 
obtuseness  of  mind  with  regard  to  God,  which  obscures 
His  blessings,  as  a  cloud  darkens  the  sky,  hiding  the 
light  of  the  sun.  For  the  moment  the  spiritual  man 
rejoices  in  anything,  and  gives  the  reins  to  his  foolish 
desires,  he  becomes  blind  to  God,  and  overshadows  with 
a  cloud  the  pure  perceptions  of  his  judgment.  ‘For  the 
bewitching  of  vanity,’  saith  the  Holy  Ghost,  ‘  obscureth 
good  things,  and  the  wandering  of  concupiscence  over- 
turneth  the  innocent  mind.’f  The  Holy  Spirit  teaches 
here  that  concupiscence  alone,  and  joy  in  created  things, 
even  when  the  soul  is  without  previous  malice,  are 
sufficient  to  precipitate  it  into  the  first  degree  of  evil ; 
into  that  obtuseness  of  mind  and  obscurity  of  judgment 

*  Deuter.  xxxii.  15.  f  Wisd.  iv.  12. 

T2 


292 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.] 

which  destroy  the  perception  of  truth  and  a  right  judg¬ 
ment  in  all  things.  If  a  man  gives  way  to  concupiscence, 
or  rejoices  in  temporal  things,  neither  his  sanctity  nor 
his  prudence  can  prevent  his  fall. 

5.  This  explains  those  words  of  God:  ‘Neither  shalt 
thou  take  bribes,  which  even  blind  the  wise.’  *  This  is 
especially  addressed  unto  judges  who  have  need  of  a 
clear  and  vigilant  judgment,  which  cannot  coexist  with 
avarice  and  joy  in  gifts.  Hence  God  commanded  Moses 
to  appoint  men  for  judges  who  hated  avarice:  ‘Provide 
out  of  all  the  people  able  men  ....  that  hate  avarice, 
who  may  judge  the  people  at  all  times/  f  men  who 
would  not  blind  their  judgment  by  the  lust  of  posses¬ 
sion.  God  does  not  say  men  that  avoid  avarice,  but 
men  that  hate  avarice.  For  if  we  would  defend  our¬ 
selves  completely  against  a  particular  affection  we  must 
hold  it  in  abhorrence,  and  guard  ourselves  against  it  by 
the  contrary  feeling.  The  reason  why  Samuel  was 
always  so  upright  and  enlightened  a  judge  was,  as  he 
tells  us  himself,  his  abstinence  from  gifts :  ‘  If  I  have 
taken  a  gift  at  any  man’s  hand.’  + 

6.  The  second  degree  grows  out  of  the  first,  as  the 
text  shows :  ‘  he  grew  fat,  and  thick,  and  gross.’  Thus 
the  will  becomes  gross  and  distracted,  by  greater  liberty 
in  worldly  things.  It  has  no  scruples  about  the  pleasure 
it  finds  in  created  things.  This  state  grows  out  of  a 
previous  indulgence  in  joy,  for  when  the  soul  of  man  is 
engrossed  therein  it  is  the  result  of  yielding  to  it ;  and 
this  engrossing  of  it  by  joy  and  desire  causes  the  will  to 
dilate  and  expend  itself  on  created  things.  Great  evils 

Exod.  xxiii.  8.  +  lb.  xviii.  21,  22.  {  1  Kings  xii.  3 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


293 


[CHAP.  XVIII.] 

result  from  this,  because  this  second  degree  leads  us 
away  from  the  things  of  God,  and  from  holy  practices, 
and  robs  us  of  all  pleasure  in  them,  because  we  take 
pleasure  in  other  matters,  and  abandon  ourselves  to 
many  follies,  to  empty  joys  and  pleasures.  When  the 
second  degree  is  completely  reached,  it  destroys  utterly 
nabitual  devotion,  and  the  mind  and  desire  are  given  up 
to  secularities.  Those  who  have  fallen  to  this  second 
degree,  not  only  have  their  judgment  and  understanding 
blinded  as  to  truth  and  justice,  like  those  who  have 
fallen  into  the  first ;  but  they  are  also  remiss  and  tepid 
in  recognising  and  doing  their  duty,  according  to  the 
words  of  the  prophet :  ‘  They  all  love  bribes,  they  run 
after  rewards.  They  judge  not  for  the  fatherless ;  and 
the  widow’s  cause  cometh  not  unto  them.’*  In  this  they 
are  not  without  sin,  especially  if  such  duties  are  incum¬ 
bent  upon  them,  for  those  who  have  fallen  to  this  depth 
are  not  free  from  malice,  like  those  of  the  first  degree. 
These,  therefore,  withdraw  themselves  more  and  more 
from  justice  and  virtue,  because  they  inflame  the  will 
more  and  more  by  this  their  affection  for  created  things. 
The  characteristics  of  those  who  are  in  this  second  state 
are  great  lukewarmness  in  spiritual  things,  and  a 
careless  observance  of  them  ;  they  perform  their  highest 
duties  rather  as  if  they  were  ceremonies,  or  from  com¬ 
pulsion,  or  from  habit,  and  not  from  love. 

7.  The  third  degree  of  this  negative  evil  is  the  utter 
forsaking  of  God,  neglect  of  His  law,  because  men  will 
not  deny  themselves  in  the  merest  trifle  of  this  world, 
and,  finally  mortal  sin  committed  through  con- 

*  Is.  i.  2\. 


294  the  ascent  [book  iii.J 

cupiscence.  This  degree  is  described  in  the  text  by  the 
words,  ‘  He  forsook  God  Who  made  him.’  This  degree 
includes  all  those  the  faculties  of  whose  souls  are  so 
immersed  in  the  things  of  the  world— in  riches  and  the 
commerce  thereof— that  they  are  utterly  regardless  of 
the  obligations  of  the  divine  law.  In  that  which  con¬ 
cerns  their  salvation  they  are  forgetful  and  dull,  but 
quick  and  clear  in  the  things  of  the  world,  so  much  so 
that  our  Lord  calls  them  ‘  children  of  this  world,’  saying 
of  them,  that  they  ‘  are  wiser  in  their  generation  than 
the  children  of  light ;  ’  *  that  is,  more  prudent  in  the 
management  of  their  own  affairs  than  the  children  of 
light  in  their  own.  Such  persons  are  nothing  in  the 
things  of  God,  but  everything  in  the  things  of  the  world. 
These  persons  are  the  truly  avaricious ;  they  have  so 
profusely  wasted  their  affections  and  desires  upon 
created  things  that  they  can  never  be  satisfied ;  their 
desire  and  thirst  increase  the  more,  the  more  they  depart 
from  the  fountain  which  alone  can  satisfy  them,  namely, 
God.  It  is  of  these  that  God  speaks  by  the  mouth  of  the 
prophet,  saying,  ‘They  have  forsaken  Me,  the  fountain 
of  living  water,  and  have  digged  to  themselves  cisterns, 
broken  cisterns,  that  can  hold  no  water.’  f  That  is  the 
reason  why  the  covetous  man  finds  in  created  things, 
not  the  assuaging  of  his  thirst,  but  the  increase  of  it. 
These  persons  fall  into  innumerable  sins  through  tern 
poral  goods;  of  whom  the  Psalmist  hath  said,  ‘The 
have  passed  into  the  affection  of  the  heart.’  + 

8.  The  fourth  degree  of  this  negative  evil  is  described 
in  the  same  text  thus:  ‘departed  from  God  his  salvation.’ 

*  Sf.  fiuke  xvj.  8.  t/erem.  ii.  13.  $  ps.  lxxii.  7. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


295 


[chap.  XVIII. J 

This  is  the  issue  of  the  third  degree,  of  which  I  have  just 
spoken. 

9.  The  avaricious  man,  because  he  makes  light  of  his 
want  of  affection  for  the  law  of  God,  on  account  of 
temporal  goods,  departs  from  Him  in  memory,  under¬ 
standing,  and  will.  He  forgets  Him  as  if  He  existed 
not,  because  he  has  made  money  and  temporal  prosperity 
his  god ;  for  avarice  is,  according  to  the  Apostle,  ‘  the 
service  of  idols.’*  This  fourth  degree  extends  to  for¬ 
getfulness  of  God,  to  the  setting  of  the  heart  formally  on 
money  which  ought  to  be  set  formally  upon  God ;  as  if 
men  had  no  other  god  than  money.  They  have  fallen 
into  this  fourth  degree  who  scruple  not  to  subject  divine 
and  supernatural  things  to  temporal,  as  if  the  latter  were 
God ;  their  duty  being  to  act  on  the  contrary  rule,  sub¬ 
jecting  temporal  things  to  God,  as  reason  requires. 
Such  was  the  impious  Balaam,  who  sold  for  money  the 
gift  of  God,f  and  Simon  Magus,  who  ‘  thought  that  the 
gift  of  God  may  be  purchased  with  money,’ +  and 
attempted  to  buy  it.  They  thought  more  of  money; 
they  seemed  to  think  that  others  did  so  too,  and  that 
they  would  sell  the  gift  of  God. 

JO.  There  are  many  who,  in  various  ways,  have  fallen 
into  this  fourth  degree  of  evil ;  their  reason  is  blinded  by 
avarice,  and  they  are  the  servants  of  money  and  not  of 
God  ;  they  labour  for  it  and  not  for  Him  ;  they  propose 
to  themselves  a  human  and  not  the  divine  reward; 
making  money  in  divers  ways  their  principal  end  and 
god,  and  preferring  it  to  God,  their  ultimate  end. 

11.  This  class,  too,  comprises  all  those  miserable  men 
*  Coloss.  iii.  5.  t  Num.  xxii.  7.  +  Acts  viii.  20. 


296 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.] 


who  so  love  their  earthly  goods  as  to  esteem  them  their 
god ;  and  who  therefore  shrink  not  from  the  sacrifice  oi 
their  own  lives  whenever  their  god  suffers  the  slightest 
injury;  they  fall  into  despair,  and  for  wretched  objects 
inflict  death  upon  themselves  :  thereby  showing,  in  the 
work  of  their  own  hands,  the  miserable  reward  which 
their  god  bestows  upon  them.  When  their  expectations 
fail  them  they  despair  and  die,  and  those  who  escape  this 
final  calamity  live  in  the  torments  of  continual  anxiety 
and  misery ;  no  joy  enters  into  their  soul,  and  no 
temporal  happiness  attends  them ;  they  pay  tribute  to 
their  god  in  sorrow  of  heart,  gathering  money  for  the 
final  misery  of  their  just  perdition :  as  it  is  written, 
‘  Riches  kept  to  the  hurt  of  the  owner.’  * 

12.  Those  also  of  whom  it  is  said,  ‘  God  delivered  them 
up  to  a  reprobate  sense,’ f  are  of  this  class,  for  joy,  when 
it  makes  possessions  its  end,  drags  men  down  to  this. 
Those  who  do  not  fall  so  low  are  objects  of  deep  com¬ 
miseration,  because  they  turn  back  from  the  way  ot 
God.  ‘  Be  not  thou  afraid  when  a  man  shall  be  made 
rich,  and  when  the  glory  of  his  house  shall  be  increased. 
For  when  he  shall  die  he  shall  take  nothing  away,  nor 
shall  his  glory  descend  with  him.’J  ‘Be  not  afraid 
when  a  man  shall  be  made  rich  ;’  that  is,  be  not  envious 
of  him,  thinking  him  superior  to  thyself,  for  when  he 
shall  die  he  shall  take  nothing  away  with  him,  neither 
his  glory  nor  his  joy  shall  descend  with  him. 


*  Eccles.  v.  12 


t  Rom.  i.  2S. 


J  Ps.  xlviii.  17,  18. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


2y7 


[CHAP.  XIX.  1 


CHAPTER  XIX. 

The  benefits  resulting  from  withdrawing  our  joy  from  temporal 

things. 

The  spiritual  man,  then,  must  be  very  careful  of  the 
beginnings  of  joy  in  temporal  things,  lest  it  should 
grow  from  little  to  be  great,  and  increase  from  one 
degree  to  another.  What  is  small  becomes  large,  out  of 
slight  beginnings  result  great  evils,  and  one  spark  is 
enough  to  set  a  mountain  on  fire.  However  slight  his 
joy  may  be,  let  him  quench  it  at  once,  and  not  trust  that 
he  shall  be  able  to  do  it  later;  for  if  he  has  not  the 
courage  to  do  so  when  it  is  but  beginning,  how  can 
he  presume  upon  success  when  it  shall  have  taken  root 
and  grown  ?  Remember  especially  those  words  of  our 
Lord,  ‘  He  that  is  faithful  in  that  which  is  least,  is 
faithful  also  in  that  which  is  greater.’* 

2.  He  who  avoids  what  is  slight  will  not  stumble  over 
what  is  great.  Little  things  involve  great  evils,  because 
the  fences  and  wall  of  the  heart  are  broken  down  when 
they  enter  in.  And  the  proverb  says,  He  who  has  begun 
his  work  has  accomplished  the  half  of  it.  It  is  for  this 
reason  that  David  admonishes  us,  saying,  ‘If  riches 
abound,  set  not  your  heart  upon  them.’f  If  man  will 
not  do  this  for  God,  and  because  Christian  perfection 
requires  it,  yet  because  of  the  temporal  advantages, 
beside  the  spiritual  ones,  which  such  conduct  brings 
with  it,  he  should  keep  his  heart  perfectly  free  from  all 
joy  of  this  kind.  In  this  way  he  not  only  delivers 

*  St.  Luke  xvi.  10.  t  Ps.  Ixi.  II. 


298  THE  ASCENT  [BOOK  III.] 

himself  from  those  pestilent  evils  enumerated  in  the  pre¬ 
ceding  chapter,  but  also,  repressing  all  joy  in  temporal 
goods,  acquires  the  virtue  of  generosity,  one  of  the  chief 
attributes  of  God ;  and  which  cannot  possibly  coexist 
with  avarice.  Moreover,  he  attains  to  liberty  of  spirit, 
clearness  of  judgment,  repose,  tranquillity,  and  peaceful 
confidence  in  God,  together  with  the  true  worship  and 
obedience  of  the  will.  He  has  greater  joy  and  comfort 
in  creatures  if  he  detaches  himself  from  them  ;  and  he 
can  have  no  joy  in  them  if  he  considers  them  as  his  own. 
He  acquires  also  in  this  detachment  from  creatures  a 
clear  comprehension  of  them,  so  as  to  understand 
perfectly  the  truths  that  relate  to  them,  both  naturally 
and  supernaturally.  For  this  reason  his  joy  in  them  is 
widely  different  from  his  who  is  attached  to  them,  and 
far  nobler.  The  former  rejoices  in  their  truth,  the  latter 
in  their  deceptiveness  ;  the  former  in  their  best,  and  the 
latter  in  their  worst,  conditions  ;  the  former  in  their  sub¬ 
stantial  worth,  and  the  latter  in  their  seeming  and 
accidental  nature,  through  his  senses  only.  For  sense 
cannot  grasp  or  comprehend  more  than  the  accidents, 
but  the  mind,  purified  from  the  clouds  and  species  of  the 
accidents,  penetrates  to  the  interior  truth  of  things,  for 
that  is  its  proper  object. 

3.  Now  joy  as  a  cloud  darkens  the  judgment,  for  there 
can  be  no  rejoicing  in  created  things  without  the  attach¬ 
ment  of  the  will.  The  negation  and  purgation  of  this 
joy  leaves  the  judgment  clear  as  the  sky  when  the  mists 
are  scattered.  The  former,  therefore,  has  joy  in  all 
things,  but  his  joy  is  not  dependent  upon  them,  neither 
does  it  arise  from  their  being  his  own  :  and  the  latter. 


299 


[CHAP.  XIX.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

in  so  far  as  he  regards  them  as  his  own,  loses  in  general 
all  joy  whatever.  The  former,  while  his  heart  is  set 
upon  none  of  them,  possesses  them  all,  as  the  Apostle 
saith,  with  great  freedom :  ‘  as  having  nothing,  and 
possessing  all  things.’*  The  latter,  while  in  will 
attached  to  them,  neither  has,  nor  possesses,  anything ; 
yea,  rather  created  things  have  possession  of  his  very 
heart,  for  which  cause  he  suffers  pain  as  a  prisoner. 
And,  therefore,  all  the  joy  he  will  derive  from  creatures, 
will  necessarily  end  in  as  many  disquietudes  and  pains 
in  the  heart  which  is  in  their  possession. 

4.  He  who  is  detached  from  creatures,  is  not  molested 
during  prayer  or  otherwise,  and  so,  without  losing 
his  time,  he  gains  easily  great  spiritual  treasures.  On 
the  other  hand,  the  covetous  man  runs  to  and  fro,  within 
the  limits  of  the  chain  by  which  his  heart  is  bound,  and 
with  all  his  efforts  can  scarcely  set  himself  free,  even  for 
a  moment,  from  the  bondage  of  his  thoughts,  running 
incessantly  thither  where  his  heart  is  fixed.  The  spiritual 
man,  therefore,  must  suppress  the  first  motions  of  this 
joy,  keeping  this  in  mind,  that  there  is  nothing  in  which 
a  man  may  rejoice  except  in  serving  God,  in  promoting 
His  honour  and  glory,  in  directing  all  things  to  this  end, 
and  in  avoiding  all  vanity  in  them,  not  seeking  his  own 
pleasure  and  comfort  in  them. 

5.  The  absence  of  joy  in  created  good,  brings  another 
great  and  excellent  benefit :  it  sets  the  heart  free 
for  God :  which  is  a  disposition  meet  for  all  those 
graces  which  He  will  bestow  and  without  which  He 
will  give  none.  And  even  in  this  life,  for  one  joy 

*  ?  Cor.  vj.  io. 


300 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.] 

denied  through  love  of  Him  and  for  the  sake  of 
evangelical  perfection,  he  will  give  them  a  hundred¬ 
fold,  according  to  His  promise.*  But  if  it  -were 
not  so,  the  spiritual  Christian  ought  to  suppress  all  joy- 
in  created  things  because  it  is  offensive  in  the  sight  of 
God.  When  the  rich  man,  in  the  gospel,  rejoiced, 
because  he  had  1  much  goods  laid  up  for  many  years,’ 
God  was  so  displeased,  that  He  said  unto  Him :  ‘  Thou 
fool,  this  night  do  they  require  thy  soul  of  thee.’  f 

6.  It  is  therefore  justly  to  be  feared,  whenever  we 
rejoice  in  vanity,  that  God  is  looking  on  and  preparing 
some  chastisement  for  us,  the  bitter  cup  of  our  deservings; 
for  the  punishment  of  such  rejoicing  is  frequently  greater 
than  its  pleasures.  Though  the  words  recorded  by  St. 
John  concerning  Babylon  be  true :  ‘  As  much  as  she 
hath  glorified  herself  and  lived  in  delicacies,  so  much 
torment  and  sorrow  give  ye  to  her.’+  we  are  not  to 
suppose  that  the  pain  will  not  exceed  the  joy,  because  it 
will  be  far  greater — seeing  that  for  passing  pleasures 
there  are  infinite  and  everlasting  torments — for  the 
words  mean  that  nothing  shall  escape  its  particular 
punishment,  for  He  Who  will  punish  for  every  idle 
word,  will  not  pass  over  our  empty  joy. 


CHAPTER  XX. 

The  joy  of  the  will  in  natural  goods  is  vanity.  How  to  direct 
the  will  to  God  therein. 

By  natural  goods  I  mean  beauty,  grace,  comeliness, 

bodily  constitution,  and  all  other  physical  endowments, 
*  St.  Matt.  xix.  29.  t  St.  Luke  xii.  19,  20.  X  Apoc.  xviii.  7. 


[CHAP.  XX.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL.  301 

and  also  good  understanding,  discretion,  and  other 
rational  qualities.  Now,  for  a  man  to  rejoice,  because 
he  himself,  or  those  who  belong  to  him,  may  be  thus 
gifted,  and  for  that  reason  only,  without  giving  thanks 
to  God,  Who  thus  endows  men  in  order  that  they  may 
know  Him  and  love  Him  the  more,  is  vanity  and  delusion. 

‘  Favour  is  deceitful,’  saith  the  wise  man,  ‘  and  beauty  is 
vain  :  the  woman  that  feareth  the  Lord,  she  shall  be 
praised.’*  He  teaches  us  that  man  ought  rather  to  be 
afraid  of  his  natural  endowments,  because  they  may  so 
easily  withdraw  him  from  the  love  of  God,  and  cast  him 
down  into  error  and  vanity.  This  is  the  reason  why 
physical  grace  is  said  to  be  deceitful ;  it  deceives  a  man 
and  allures  him  to  that  which  is  unseemly,  through  empty 
joy  or  complacency,  either  in  himself,  or  in  others  so 
endowed.  Beauty  is  vain  ;  it  makes  man  fall  in  divers 
ways,  when  he  values  it  and  rejoices  in  it,  for  he  ought 
to  rejoice  in  it  only  when  it  enables  him  or  others  to  serve 
God.  We  ought,  therefore,  rather  to  fear,  lest  perhaps 
our  natural  gifts  and  graces  should  become  occasions  of 
offending  God,  through  presuming  upon  them,  or  exces¬ 
sive  estimation  of  them,  arising  out  of  their  continued 
contemplation.  He,  therefore,  who  is  thus  endowed, 
ought  to  be  very  cautious,  and  watchful  in  his  conduct, 
lest  he  should  furnish  another  with  the  opportunity  of 
withdrawing  his  heart  from  God  even  for  a  moment. 
For  these  natural  gifts  and  graces  are  so  prolific  in  temp¬ 
tations  and  in  occasions  of  sin,  as  well  to  the  owner  as  to 
the  beholder,  that  scarcely  any  one  can  avoid  all  entangle¬ 
ment  of  the  heart  in  them.  Many  spiritual  persons,  of 


Prov.  xxxi.  30. 


302 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III. 

natural  beauty,  have,  under  the  influence  of  this  fear, 
prayed  to  God  for  their  own  disfigurement,  that  they 
might  not  be  an  occasion  of  vain  affection  or  joy,  either 
to  themselves  or  to  others. 

2.  The  spiritual  man,  therefore,  must  purify  his  will, 
and  render  it  insensible  to  this  empty  rejoicing,  remember¬ 
ing  that  beauty,  and  all  other  natural  graces,  are  earth, 
from  the  earth,  and  soon  return  to  it;  that  comeliness  and 
grace  are  but  smoke  and  vapour ;  and  if  he  would  escape 
falling  into  vanity,  he  must  esteem  them  as  such,  and 
direct  his  heart  upwards  unto  God  beyond  them  all, 
rejoicing  and  delighted  that  God  is  all  beauty  and  all 
grace  in  Himself  supremely,  infinitely  above  all  created 
things.  ‘They  shall  perish,’  saith  the  Psalmist,  ‘  but 
Thou  remainest,  and  all  of  them  shall  grow  old  like  a  gar¬ 
ment.’*  If,  therefore,  our  rejoicing  is  not  in  God,  it  will 
always  be  false  and  delusive.  It  is  to  this  that  those 
words  of  Solomon  apply  which  he  addressed  to  that  joy 
which  has  its  sources  in  created  things:  ‘To  mirth,  I 
said,  Why  art  thou  vainly  deceived  ?  ’  f  that  is  when 
the  heart  suffers  itself  to  be  attracted  by  created  things. 


CHAPTER  XXI. 

The  evils  of  the  will’s  rejoicing  in  natural  goods. 

Though  many  of  these  evils  and  benefits,  which  I 
describe  under  these  several  divisions  of  joy,  be  common 
to  all  kinds  of  joy,  nevertheless,  because  they  flow 
directly  from  joy  and  the  rejection  of  it— though  com- 


*  Ps.  ci.  27. 


t  Eccles.  ii.  2. 


'"CHAP.  XXI.] 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


303 


prised  under  any  one  of  these  divisions—  I  speak  under 
each  head  of  some  evils  and  benefits,  which  are  also 
found  under  another,  because  connected  with  that  joy 
which  is  common  to  all.  But  my  chief  object  is  to  speak 
of  those  particular  evils  and  benefits  which  rejoicing,  or 
not  rejoicing,  in  all  things,  ministers  unto  the  soul.  I 
call  them  particular  evils,  because  they  flow  primarily  and 
immediately  from  one  particular  kind  of  rejoicing,  and 
only  secondarily  and  mediately  from  another.  For 
instance  the  evil  of  lukewarmness  flows  directly  from  all 
and  every  kind  of  joy,  and  is  therefore  common  to  the  six 
kinds  in  general  ;  but  that  of  sensuality  is  a  particular 
evil,  which  flows  directly  only  from  joy  in  the  natural 
goods  of  which  I  am  speaking. 

2.  The  spiritual  and  bodily  evils,  then,  which  directly 
and  effectually  flow  from  rejoicing  in  natural  goods, 
are,  in  number,  six  principal  evils. 

3.  The  first  is  vain  glory,  presumption,  pride,  and 
disesteem  of  our  neighbour ;  for  no  man  can  entertain 
an  excessive  esteem  of  one  thing  without  wanting  in 
respect  for  some  other  thing.  The  result  is,  at  least, 
that  we  disesteem  and  despise  all  else  ;  because 
naturally,  by  esteeming  one  thing  we  withdraw  our 
heart  from  all  besides,  and  fix  it  upon  that.  It  is  most 
easy  to  glide  from  this  real  contempt  into  an  intentional 
and  deliberate  despising  of  others ;  in  particular  or  in 
general,  not  in  thoughts  only,  but  in  words  as  well,  to 
the  extent  of  saying  that  such  a  person  is  not  like 
such  an  one. 

4.  The  second  evil  is  complacency  and  sensual  delight. 

5.  The  third  evil  is  flattery  and  empty  praise,  wherein 


304 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.] 

there  is  delusion  and  vanity,  as  the  prophet  saith,  ‘  O 
my  people,  they  that  call  thee  blessed  deceive  thee.’* 
For,  even  if  we  speak  truly  when  we  praise  the  grace 
and  beauty  of  another,  it  will  be  strange  if  some  evil 
be  not  involved,  either  in  causing  him  to  fall  into  vain 
complacency  and  joy,  or  in  ministering  food  to  his 
imperfect  affections  and  intentions. 

6.  The  fourth  evil  is  a  general  one  :  it  dulls  the  reason 
and  the  spiritual  sense,  as  the  joy  of  temporal  goods 
does,  and  in  a  certain  way  even  more.  For,  as  natural 
goods  are  more  intimately  connected  with  man  than 
temporal  goods  are,  the  joy  which  they  minister  makes 
a  quicker  and  deeper  impression  upon  the  senses,  and 
more  effectually  blunts  them.  Reason  and  judgment 
are  not  free ;  for  the  sense  of  this  joy  which  touches 
them  so  nearly,  darkens  them  as  a  cloud,  and  hence, 

7.  The  fifth  evil,  which  is  the  dissipation  of  the  mind 
by  created  things. 

8.  Then  the  sixth  is  spiritual  sloth  and  lukewarmness, 
which  grow  into  weariness  and  sadness  in  divine  things, 
so  that  in  the  end  we  come  to  hate  them.  Pure 
spirituality  is  inevitably  lost  in  this  joy,  at  least  in 
principle ;  for  if  any  spirituality  exist,  it  will  be  exceed¬ 
ingly  sensual  and  gross,  scarcely  spiritual,  or  interior, 
or  recollected— consisting  in  sensible  delight  more  than 
in  the  strength  of  the  spirit.  If  we  are  in  mind  so 
mean  and  weak  as  not  to  destroy  the  habit  of  this 
joy -an  imperfect  habit  of  it  even  is  sufficient  to  sully 
the  purity  of  our  spirituality,  without  consenting  to  the 
acts  which  this  joy  suggests— we  are  living  in  the 

*  Is.  iii.  12. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


[CHAP.  XXI.] 


30S 


weakness  of  sense  rather  than  in  the  power  of  the 
spirit.  This  will  become  manifest  in  the  matter  of 
perfection  and  fortitude  when  the  occasion  shall  arise, 
thong’ll  I  do  not  deny  that  many  virtues  may  coexist 
with  great  imperfections,  but  no  pure  or  healthy  interior 
spirituality  can  coexist  with  these  unchecked  rejoicings  ; 
for  here  the  flesh  almost  reigns,  which  wars  against  the 
spirit,  and  though  we  may  be  unconscious  of  the  evil, 
yet,  at  least,  secret  distractions  are  the  result. 

9.  I  now  return  to  the  second  evil,  which  involves 
innumerable  others.  No  pen  can  describe,  no  words 
can  express,  the  nature  and  extent  of  the  misery  that 
results  from  rejoicing  in  natural  grace  and  beauty. 
These  are  daily  occasions  of  murders,  of  honour  lost, 
of  insults,  of  extravagant  dissipation,  emulations, 
contentions,  adultery  and  violence,  of  the  ruin  of  saints, 
comparable  in  number  to  the  third  part  of  the  stars  of 
heaven,  swept  down  to  the  earth  by  the  tail  of  the 
dragon.*  ‘How  is  the  gold  become  dim,  the  finest 
colour  is  changed,  the  stones  of  the  sanctuary  are 
scattered  in  the  top  of  every  street.  The  noble  sons 
of  Sion,  and  they  that  were  clothed  in  the  best  gold, 
how  are  they  esteemed  as  earthen  vessels,  the  work 
of  the  potter’s  hands  !  ’  f  Is  any  condition  secure  against 
the  poison  of  this  evil  ?  Who  has  not  drunk,  be  it  much 
or  little,  of  the  golden  cup  of  the  Babylonian  woman, 
that  sitteth  on  the  ‘  scarlet-coloured  beast,  full  of  names 
of  blasphemy,  having  seven  heads  and  ten  horns  ?  ’  + 
Neither  high  nor  low,  neither  saint  nor  sinner  lives,  to 
whom  she  has  not  given  her  cup  to  drink  from,  suborning 
*  Apoc.  xii.  4.  t  Lam.  iv.  1,  2.  +  Apoc.  xvii.  3. 


u 


306 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.  I 

the  heart  in  some  thing ;  for  all  the  kings  of  the  earth 
have  drunk  of  the  wine  of  her  fornication.  She  seizes 
upon  all  conditions  of  men,  the  highest  and  the  noblest, 
the  sacred  priesthood  itself,  and  puts  the  cup  of  her 
abominations  in  the  holy  place :  ‘  There  shall  be  in  the 
temple  the  abomination  of  desolation.’*  Even  one 
spiritually  strong  scarcely  escapes  the  wine  of  this  cup, 
which  is  empty  rejoicing. 

10.  This  is  the  reason  why  it  is  said  that  all  the  kings 
of  the  earth  have  drunk  of  it ;  for  there  are  very  few, 
however  holy  they  may  be,  who  have  not  drunk  and 
been  corrupted,  in  some  measure,  by  the  cups  of  joy 
which  the  pleasure  of  natural  grace  and  beauty  supply. 
Observe,  too,  that  the  word  is  ‘  drunk,’  for  if  we  drink 
of  the  wine  of  this  joy,  it  seizes  on  the  heart  and  deadens 
it,  obscuring  the  reason,  as  in  men  drunk  with  wine. 
And  if  no  antidote  be  taken  at  once,  and  the  poison 
expelled,  the  life  of  the  soul  is  in  danger.  Spiritual 
weakness  having  grown  upon  us,  this  poison  will  drag 
us  down  to  such  depths  of  evil  that  we  shall  grind  in  the 
mill  like  Samson, t  deprived  of  sight,  with  the  hair  of 
our  first  strength  cut  off,  captives  in  the  hands  of  our 
enemies ;  and  afterwards,  perhaps,  die  the  second  death, 
as  he  did  the  first :  the  draughts  of  this  joy  producing 
spiritually  in  us  what  they  did  corporally  in  him,  and 
in  many  unto  this  day.  In  the  end  our  enemies  will 
surround  us  and  say  to  our  great  confusion,  Art  thou  he 
who  broke  the  cords,  tore  the  lions,  killed  the  Philis¬ 
tines,  carried  away  the  gates,  and  set  thyself  free  from 
the  hands  of  thine  enemies  ? 


*  Dan.  ix.  27. 


t  Judges  xvi.  21. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


307 


(chap.  XXII.] 

11.  Let  me  now  conclude  with  the  requisite  instruction 
for  this  poison.  If  you  feel  your  heart  moved  by  the 
vain  joy  of  natural  goods,  remember  what  vanity  it  is 
to  rejoice  in  anything  but  in  the  service  of  God,  how 
dangerous  it  is  and  ruinous.  Remember  the  punish¬ 
ment  of  the  angels  who  rejoiced  in  their  beauty  and 
endowments;  they  fell  deformed  into  the  abyss  below. 
And  how  great  are  the  evils  which  vanity  brings  daily 
upon  men!  Resolve,  therefore,  in  time  to  take  the 
remedy,  according  to  the  proverb,*  Resist  the  evil  in 
its  beginnings  ;  remedies  are  too  late  when  the  disease 
has  grown ;  for  when  the  evil  has  grown  in  the  heart, 
the  remedy  is  too  late  :  ‘  Look  not  upon  the  wine/  saith 
the  wise  man,  ‘  when  it  is  yellow,  when  the  colour 
thereof  shineth  in  the  glass.  It  goeth  in  pleasantly ; 
but  in  the  end  it  will  bite  like  a  snake,  and  will  spread 
abroad  poison  like  a  basilisk.'  f 


CHAPTER  XXII. 

The  benefits  of  not  rejoicing  in  natural  goods. 

Many  are  the  benefits  which  the  soul  reaps  when  it 
withdraws  the  heart  from  this  joy.  For  beside  disposing 
itself  for  the  love  of  God,  and  the  other  virtues,  it  makes 
a  way  for  personal  humility  and  universal  charity 
towards  our  neighbours.  When  our  affections,  free 
from  the  influence  of  natural  goods,  which  are  deceitful, 
rest  upon  no  one,  the  soul  is  free  to  love  all  men  reason¬ 
ably  and  spiritually,  as  God  wills  them  to  be  loved.  No 

*  Principiis  obsta,  sero  medicina  paratur.  t  Prov.  xxiii.  31,  32. 

V2 


308 


TIIE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  HI.  J 

one  deserves  to  be  loved  except  for  his  goodness,  and 
when  we  love  in  this  way,  our  love  is  pleasing  unto 
God,  and  in  great  liberty,  and  if  there  be  attachment 
in  it  there  is  greater  attachment  to  God.  For  then  the 
more  this  love  grows,  the  more  also  grows  our  love  oi 
God,  and  the  deeper  our  love  of  Him  the  more  we  shall 
love  our  neighbour :  for  the  principle  of  both  is  the 
same. 

2.  Another  great  benefit  is  the  perfect  observance  of 
our  Saviour’s  words  :  ‘  If  any  man  will  come  after  Me,  let 
him  deny  himself.’*  Now  the  soul  can  never  do  this,  if 
it  has  any  joy  in  its  natural  endowments;  for  he  who 
has  even  the  slightest  self-esteem,  neither  denies  him¬ 
self  nor  follows  Christ. 

3.  Another  great  benefit  of  this  self-denial  is,  that  it 
makes  the  soul  tranquil,  empties  it  of  the  sources  of 
distractions,  controls  the  senses,  and  especially  the  eyes. 
The  spiritual  man,  seeking  no  joy,  will  neither  look  upon, 
nor  suffer  his  other  senses  to  be  occupied  with,  these 
endowments,  that  he  may  not  be  attracted  by  them,  nor 
be  led  to  waste  time  or  thought  upon  them,  like  the 
crafty  serpent  which  stops  its  ears  that  it  may  not  hear 
the  incantations,  so  that  they  make  no  impression  upon 
it,  ‘  according  to  the  likeness  of  a  serpent,  like  the  deaf 
asp  that  stoppeth  her  ears.’  f  If  we  set  a  guard  over 
our  senses,  which  are  the  doors  of  the  soul,  we  shall 
thereby  guard  and  increase  its  purity  and  tranquillity 
also. 

4.  Another  benefit,  of  no  less  importance,  which  those 
who  have  made  progress  in  the  mortification  of  this  joy 

*  S.  Matt.  xvi.  24.  +  Ps.  lvii.  5. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


309 


[CHAP.  XXII.] 

obtain,  is  this  :  impure  objects  and  the  knowledge  of 
them  no  longer  impress,  and  sully  the  soul,  as  in  their 
case  to  whom  this  joy  is  still  somewhat  pleasurable. 
This  mortification  and  self-denial  grows  into  a  spiritual 
pureness  of  soul  and  body,  of  mind  and  sense,  which 
issue  in  a  certain  angelical  conformity  with  God, 
rendering  both  soul  and  body  a  worthy  temple  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.  Man  cannot  be  so  pure  if  his  heart  enter¬ 
tains  any  joy  in  these  natural  gifts  and  graces.  It  is  not 
necessary  to  have  given  consent  to  any  impure  act,  for 
this  joy  is  sufficient  to  sully  the  soul  and  senses  with  the 
knowledge  of  evil,  as  it  is  written  :  ‘  The  Holy  Spirit  of 
discipline  will  withdraw  Himself  from  thoughts  that  are 
without  understanding,’*  that  is,  from  thoughts  not 
directed  to  God  by  right  reason. 

5.  Another  general  benefit  is  this  :  beside  our  deliver¬ 
ance  from  the  evils  already  mentioned,  we  are  delivered 
also  from  innumerable  other  follies  and  evils,  spiritual 
and  temporal,  especially  from  that  contempt  which  falls 
to  the  lot  of  all  those  who  value  themselves,  or  rejoice 
either  in  their  own  natural  gifts  or  in  those  of  others. 
In  this  way  we  shall  be  esteemed  as  wise  and  excellent 
men,  as  in  truth  all  are  who  make  no  account  of  natural 
goods,  but  only  of  those  which  are  pleasing  unto  God. 

6.  These  benefits  issue  in  a  final  one,  which  is  a 
certain  generosity  of  mind,  as  necessary  in  the  service 
of  God  as  liberty  of  spirit,  by  which  temptations  are 
easily  overcome,  afflictions  endured,  and  by  which  virtues 
grow  and  thrive. 


*  Wise*,  i,  5* 


310 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.] 


CHAPTER  XXIII. 

Of  the  third  kind,  sensible  goods.  Their  nature  and  varieties. 

The  regulation  of  the  will  with  respect  to  them. 

I  HAVE  now  to  speak  of  joy  in  sensible  goods, 
wherein  the  will  rejoices.  By  sensible  goods  I  mean  all 
that  is  cognisable  by  the  senses,  of  sight,  of  hearing,  of 
smell,  of  taste  and  of  touch,  and  of  the  interior  working 
of  the  imaginative  powers  ;  all  of  which  belong  to  the 
interior  and  exterior  bodily  senses.  In  order  to  render 
the  will  blind  to,  and  purified  from,  all  joy  in  sensible 
objects,  directing  it  to  God,  we  must  take  for  granted 
this  truth,  namely,  that  the  sense  of  man’s  lower  nature 
is  not,  and  cannot  be,  as  I  have  said  more  than  once,  * 
capable  of  knowing  or  comprehending  God,  as  He  is. 
The  eye  cannot  see  Him,  or  anything  that  resembles 
Him  ;  the  ear  cannot  hear  His  voice,  nor  any  sound  that 
resembles  it ;  the  smell  cannot  perceive  any  odours  so 
sweet,  the  palate  cannot  taste  any  savour  so  delicious, 
nor  can  the  touch  feel  any  contact  so  exquisite  and 
thrilling,  nor  anything  like  unto  Him,  and  the  thoughts 
and  imagination  also  cannot  conceive  any  form  or  shape 
which  can  possibly  be  any  representation  of  Him.  ‘  From 
the  beginning  of  the  world  they  have  not  heard,  nor 
perceived  with  the  ears  :  the  eye  hath  not  seen,  O  God, 
beside  Thee ;  the  eye  hath  not  seen,  nor  ear  heard, 
neither  hath  it  entered  into  the  heart  of  man.’  f 

2.  Now  sweetness  and  delight  enter  into  the  senses 
in  two  ways ;  either  from  the  mind  through  some  interior 
*  See  Bk.  I  ch.  vi,  +  Is.  Ixiv.  4  ;  1  Cor.  ii.  9. 


[CHAP.  XXIII.  J  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL.  311 

divine  communication,  or  from  outward  objects  repre¬ 
sented  to  them.  But  according  to  the  text  just  quoted, 
our  lower  nature  cannot  know  God  either  in  the  way  of  the 
spirit  or  in  the  way  of  sense  ;  for  having  no  capacity  for 
so  great  a  matter,  it  receives  that  which  is  of  the  mind 
and  spirit  in  the  senses  only.  Therefore  to  occupy  the  will 
with  the  joy  that  has  its  sources  in  any  of  these  appre 
hensions,  will  be  at  the  least  but  vanity,  and  a  hindrance 
in  the  way  of  employing  the  strength  of  the  will  upon 
God,  by  rejoicing  in  Him  alone.  This  is  what  the  soul 
can  never  wholly  do  unless  it  purifies  itself  from  and 
makes  itself  blind  to  joy  in  the  things  of  sense,  for  if  it 
should  rejoice  herein  at  all,  that,  as  I  have  said,*  will  be 
but  vanity.  When  the  soul  does  not  rest  here,  but 
instantly,  as  soon  as  the  will  becomes  conscious  of  any 
joy  in  any  object  of  sense,  raises  itself  upwards  unto 
God — that  joy  supplying  motives  thereto  and  power— it 
is  well  with  it,  and  then  it  need  not  suppress  such  move¬ 
ments,  but  may  profit  by  them,  and  even  ought  to  do  so, 
so  as  to  accomplish  so  holy  an  act ;  for  there  are  souls 
whom  sensible  objects  greatly  influence  in  the  way  of 
God.  Such  souls,  however,  must  be  very  cautious,  and 
watch  the  issues  of  this  conduct,  for  very  often  many 
spiritual  persons  indulge  themselves  in  these  sensible 
recreations,  under  the  pretence  of  giving  themselves  to 
prayer  and  to  God.  Now  what  they  do  should  be  called 
recreation,  not  prayer,  and  their  pleasure  in  this  is  their 
own  rather  than  God’s.  Though  their  intention  be 
directed  to  God,  yet  the  effect  is  sensible  recreation,  and 
the  fruit  of  it  is  weakness  and  imperfection  rather  than 

*  Chap.  xx. 


THE  ASCENT 


312 


[BOOK  HI.] 


the  quickening  of  the  will,  and  the  surrender  of  it  into 
the  hands  of  God. 

3.  I  propose  here  to  lay  down  a  rule  by  which  we 
may  know  when  sensible  sweetness  is  profitable,  and 
when  it  is  not.  Whenever,  in  hearing  music,  or  other 
agreeable  sounds,  in  smelling  sweet  odours,  in  tasting 
what  is  delicious,  in  touching  what  is  soothing,  the 
affections  of  the  will  rise  consciously  in  an  instant  unto 
God,  and  that  movement  gives  us  more  pleasure  than  the 
sensible  occasion  of  it,  and  when  we  have  no  pleasure  in 
that  cause,  but  because  of  its  effects,  that  is  a  sign  of 
profit,  and  that  the  objects  of  sense  minister  unto 
the  spirit.  In  this  way  we  may  use  them,  for  now  they 
subserve  that  end  for  which  God  hath  made  them ; 
namely,  that  He  may  be  the  better  known  and  loved  on 
their  account.  Observe,  too,  that  he,  in  whom  sensible 
objects  produce  this  purely  spiritual  effect,  does  not  for 
that  reason  seek  them,  nor  make  any  account  of  them, 
though  they  excite  in  him  this  sense  of  God ;  neither  is 
he  solicitous  about  them  ;  and  when  they  are  present, 
the  will  passes  instantly  beyond  them  and  abandons 
them,  fixing  itself  upon  God. 

4.  The  reason  why  he  attaches  no  importance  to 
these  motives,  although  they  keep  him  in  the  way  of 
God,  is  that  the  mind  is  so  prompt,  in  and  through 
all,  to  fly  upwards  to  God,  so  filled,  pre-occupied,  and 
satiated  with  the  Spirit  of  God  as  to  want  or  desire 
nothing  more :  and  if  it  should  desire  anything  for  that 
end,  it  immediately  passes  on  beyond  it,  forgets  it,  and 
thinks  nothing  more  about  it. 

b.  On  the  other  hand,  he  who  is  not  conscious  of  this 


[CHAP.  XXIV.  j  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


313 


liberty  of  spirit,  amid  sensible  objects  and  sweetness, 
but  whose  will  rests  and  feeds  upon  them,  ought  to  make 
no  such  usage  of  them,  for  they  will  be  hurtful  to  him.  For 
though  such  an  one  may  employ  his  reason  about  them, 
and  in  that  way  labour  to  make  them  subserve  his 
spiritual  advancement ;  still,  because  the  appetite 
delights  in  them  in  the  way  of  sense,  and  because  the 
effect  corresponds  always  with  the  pleasure  which  they 
minister,  it  is  certain  that  they  are  a  greater  hindrance 
than  help,  a  greater  evil  than  benefit.  And  when  he 
sees  that  the  spirit  of  these  recreations  reigns  over  him, 
he  ought  to  mortify  it ;  for  the  stronger  it  grows,  the 
greater  will  be  his  imperfections  and  weakness. 

6.  Every  satisfaction,  therefore,  whether  accidental  or 
designed,  which  proceeds  from  the  senses,  the  spiritual 
man  must  use  only  for  God,  carrying  up  unto  Him  that 
joy  of  his  soul,  so  that  it  may  be  profitable  and  perfect ; 
remembering  that  every  joy,  which  is  not  founded  on  the 
denial  and  annihilation  of  all  joy  whatever,  however 
noble  it  may  seem  to  be,  is  vanity  and  without  profit, 
and  a  hindrance  to  the  union  of  the  will  with  God. 


CHAPTER  XXIV. 

The  evils  which  befall  the  soul  when  the  will  has  joy  in 

sensible  goods. 

In  the  first  place,  if  the  soul  does  not  quench  the  joy 
which  proceeds  from  sensible  things,  by  directing  it  to 
God,  all  those  evils  in  general,  of  which  I  have  spoken, 
the  fruit  of  every  kind  of  joy,  flqw  also  fropi  this  joy  in 


314 


THE  ASCENT 


[book  in.] 

sensible  things :  namely,  obscuration  of  reason,  luke¬ 
warmness,  spiritual  sloth  and  the  like.  But  to  descend 
to  particulars,  many  are  the  evils,  spiritual  and  bodily, 
into  which  men  may  straightway  fall  through  this  joy  in 
sensible  things. 

1.  Joy  in  visible  things,  when  we  do  not  deny  our¬ 
selves  therein  for  the  sake  of  God,  produces  directly  a 
spirit  of  vanity,  distraction  of  mind,  unruly  concupiscence, 
want  of  modesty,  interior  and  exterior  restlessness, 
impure  thoughts  and  envyings. 

2.  The  joy  which  the  hearing  of  unprofitable  things 
produces,  begets  directly  distraction  of  the  imagination, 
gossiping,  envy,  rash  judgments,  and  changing  thoughts, 
from  which  many  and  other  ruinous  evils  flow. 

3.  Joy  in  sweet  odours  begets  a  loathing  of  the  poor 
which  is  contrary  to  the  doctrine  of  Christ,  a  dislike  of 
ministering  unto  others,  an  unhearty  submission  to 
humble  deeds,  and  spiritual  insensibility,  at  least  pro¬ 
portional  to  the  appetite  for  this  joy. 

4.  Joy  in  meat  and  drink  produces  directly  gluttony 
and  drunkenness,  anger,  discord,  and  uncharitableness 
towards  our  neighbour  and  the  poor,  and  makes  us  like 
the  rich  glutton  who  neglected  Lazarus,  while  he  him¬ 
self  ‘feasted  sumptuously  every  day.’*  From  this  arise 
bodily  disorders,  sickness,  and  evil  impulses,  because 
the  provocations  of  luxury  are  increased.  It  is  the 
source  directly  of  great  spiritual  torpor,  and  vitiates  the 
desire  for  spiritual  things,  so  that  the  soul  has  no 
pleasure  in  them,  cannot  even  endure  them,  nor  in  any 

Way  occupy  itself  about  them.  This  joy,  too,  dissipates 

*  St.  Luke  xvi.  19. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


315 


f CHAP.  XXIV.] 

all  the  other  senses  and  the  heart,  and  creates  a  feeling  of 
general  discontent. 

5.  Joy  in  matters  of  touch  occasions  much  greater  and 
more  hurtful  evils,  which  most  rapidly  immerse  the 
senses  and  hurt  the  mind,  destroying  all  energy  and 
vigour.  Hence  the  abominable  sin  of  effeminacy,  or  the 
provocations  to  it,  in  proportion  to  this  joy.  It  produces 
luxuriousness,  makes  the  mind  effeminate  and  timid,  the 
senses  delicate  and  yielding,  disposed  for  sin  and 
wickedness.  It  fills  the  heart  with  empty  rejoicing, 
makes  the  tongue  licentious,  and  the  eyes  wanton,  and 
renders  the  other  senses  dull  and  heavy  according  to 
the  measure  of  its  strength.  It  confounds  the  judgment, 
and  buries  it  in  folly  and  spiritual  stupidity,  it  begets 
moral  cowardice  and  inconsistency  of  purpose,  and  by 
reason  of  the  soul’s  darkness  and  heart’s  weakness, 
makes  men  fear  even  where  no  fear  is.  It  creates  at 
times  a  spirit  of  confusion,  insensibility  of  mind  and 
conscience,  and  so  enfeebles  the  reason  that  a  man  can 
neither  take  good  counsel  nor  give  it ;  it  incapacitates 
the  soul  for  all  moral  and  spiritual  good,  rendering  it 
useless  as  a  broken  vessel. 

6.  All  these  evils  flow  from  this  particular  joy.  In 
some  people  more,  in  others  fewer,  more  or  less  intense, 
according  to  the  intenseness  of  this  joy,  and  according 
to  the  weakness  and  irresolution  of  him  who  indulges 
himself  in  it.  For  there  are  some  people  who  naturally 
are  more  hurt  on  slight,  than  others  on  great,  occasions. 

7.  Finally,  the  evils  into  which  men  fall  through  the 
joy  of  the  touch  are  as  numerous  as  those  occasioned  by 
that  of  natural  goods.  As  I  have  already  described 


310 


THE  ASCENT 


[book  m.J 

them,  I  shall  not  repeat  them  here,  nor  many  others 
also,  such  as  the  diminution  of  spiritual  exercises  and  of 
corporal  penances,  lukewarmness,  and  indevotion  in  the 
use  ot  the  sacraments  of  penance,  and  of  the  eucharist. 


CHAPTER  XXV. 

The  spiritual  and  temporal  benefits  of  self-denial  in  the  joy  in 

sensible  things. 

Marvellous  benefits  result  from  self-denial  in  the  joy 
which  sensible  goods  supply;  some  are  spiritual  and 
some  temporal. 

1.  The  soul,  by  refraining  from  joy  in  sensible  objects, 
recovers  itself  from  the  distractions  into  which  it  falls 
through  the  excessive  indulgence  of  the  senses,  and 
recollects  itself  in  God.  Spirituality  and  the  acquired 
virtues  are  preserved  and  increased. 

2.  The  second  spiritual  benefit  of  not  rejoicing  in 
sensible  goods  is  great;  and  we  may  say,  of  a  truth, 
that  the  sensual  becomes  spiritual,  the  animal  rational, 
that  man  leads  an  angelical  life,  that  the  temporal  and 
the  human  become  heavenly  and  divine.  As  the  man 
who  seeks  for  pleasure  in  sensual  things,  and  founds  all 
his  joy  upon  them,  ought  not,  and  deserves  not,  to  be 
called  by  any  other  name  than  this,  namely,  sensual  and 
animal ;  so  the  man  whose  joy  is  beyond  them,  deserves 
the  name  of  spiritual  and  heavenly.  This  is  most  evidently 
true,  for  as  the  energies  of  the  senses,  and  the  power  of 
sensuality,  resist,  as  the  Apostle  saith,  the  energy  and 
power  of  the  spirit,  ‘  the  flesh  lusteth  against  the  spirit, 


[CHAP.  XXV. J  of  MOUNT  CARMEL.  317 

and  the  spirit  against  the  flesh  ;  ’*  so  when  the  forces  of 
the  flesh  diminish  and  fail,  those  of  the  spirit  grow 
and  increase ;  that  which  impeded  their  growth  having 
been  taken  away.  Thus  the  spirit  made  perfect — the 
higher  portion  of  the  soul,  and  that  to  which  the  com¬ 
munications  of  God  are  made— merits  those  appellations, 
because  it  is  made  perfect  by  the  spiritual  and  heavenly 
gifts  and  graces  of  God.  We  have  the  authority  of 
St.  Paul  for  this ;  he  calls  the  sensual  man — the  man 
who  wastes  the  energy  of  his  will  upon  objects  of  sense 
— the  animal  man,  and  the  other,  whose  will  is  fixed  on 
God,  the  spiritual  man :  ‘  The  animal  man  perceiveth 
not  these  things  that  are  of  the  spirit  of  God.  But 
the  spiritual  man  judgeth  all  things.’ f  The  soul 
receives  in  this  self-denial  an  admirable  benefit ;  a  dis¬ 
position  meet  to  receive  the  gifts  and  spiritual  graces  of 
God. 

3.  The  third  benefit  is  the  great  increase  of  the  joys 
and  pleasures  of  the  will  in  this  life  ;  for,  as  our  Saviour 
saith  :  ‘  They  shall  receive  an  hundredfold.’J  If  thou  wilt 
deny  thyself  one  joy,  our  Lord  will  reward  thee  a  hundred¬ 
fold,  spiritually  and  temporally,  in  this  world  ;  and  for  one 
joy  indulged  in  sensible  goods  thou  shalthave  a  hundred 
sorrows  and  afflictions.  As  to  the  eye,  now  purged  from 
all  joy  in  seeing,  the  soul  receives  joy,  directed  to  God, 
in  all  that  is  seen,  whether  human  or  divine.  As  to  the 
ear,  purged  from  all  joy  in  hearing,  the  soul  receives  joy 
a  hundredfold,  and  that  most  spiritual,  directed  to  God 

*  Galat.  v.  17. 

t  1  Cor.  ii.  14,  15.  Animalis  autem  homo  non  percipit, 

t  St.  Matt.  xix.  29. 


318 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  IH.] 

in  all  that  is  heard,  whether  human  or  divine.  The  same 
observation  applies  to  the  other  senses.  For  as  all  that 
our  first  parents  said  and  did  in  the  state  of  innocence  in 
paradise  furnished  them  with  means  of  sweeter  contem¬ 
plation,  because  their  sensual  nature  was  ordered  by, 
and  subject  unto,  reason,  so  he  also  whose  senses  are 
subject  to  the  spirit  and  purged  from  all  sensible  objects, 
in  their  first  motions,  elicits  delight  of  sweet  knowledge 
and  contemplation  of  God. 

4.  To  the  pure,  therefore,  high  things  and  low  are  pro¬ 
fitable,  and  minister  to  his  greater  purity  ;  while  both  the 
one  and  the  other  are  occasions  of  greater  evil  to  the 
impure,  by  reason  of  his  impurity.  But  he  who  does  not 
repress  the  satisfaction  of  his  appetites  will  never  enjoy 
the  ordinary  tranquillity  of  rejoicing  in  God,  through  the 
instrumentality  of  His  creatures  and  His  works.  All  the 
functions  and  powers  of  his  senses,  who  no  longer  lives 
after  the  flesh,  are  directed  to  divine  contemplation.  For, 
as  it  is  a  philosophical  truth  that  the  life  of  every  creature 
is  in  harmony  with  its  constitution,  so  also  is  it  beyond  all 
contradiction  clear,  that  he  who  is  spiritually  minded — 
his  animal  life  being  mortified — must  be  wholly  tending 
towards  God,  for  all  his  actions  and  affections  are  those 
of  the  spiritual  life.  Such  an  one,  therefore,  pure  in  heart, 
finds  in  all  things  that  knowledge  of  God  which  is 
delicious,  sweet,  chaste,  pure,  spiritual,  joyous,  and 
loving. 

5.  From  these  considerations  I  come  to  this  conclusion, 
that,  until  we  have  so  habituated  our  senses  to  this  purga¬ 
tion  from  sensible  joy,  as  to  have  obtained  the  benefit  of 
which  I  have  spoken,  namely,  that  instant  movement 


319 


[CHAP.  XXV.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

upwards  to  God,  we  still  need  to  deny  ourselves  in  all 
joy,  that  we  may  wean  our  soul  from  the  life  of  sense.  I 
am  afraid,  that  when  not  thoroughly  spiritualised,  we 
may  gratify  and  invigorate  the  senses,  rather  than  the 
spirit  under  the  influence  of  sensible  things  ;  the  powers 
of  sense  still  ruling  over  us  in  our  conduct,  whereby 
sensuality  is  increased,  maintained,  and  nourished.  The 
words  of  our  Saviour  are  :  ‘  That  which  is  born  of  the 
flesh  is  flesh  ;  and  that  which  is  born  of  the  Spirit  is 
spirit.’*  Lay  this  to  heart,  for  it  is  the  truth.  Let  him 
who  has  not  mortified  his  senses  in  sensible  things  not 
presume  to  avail  himself  of  the  energy  and  functions  of 
sense,  thinking  that  they  will  help  him  to  become 
spiritual  ;  for  the  strength  of  the  soul  will  increase  the 
more  by  casting  the  things  of  sense  aside ;  that  is,  by 
the  quenching  of  joy  and  desire,  more  than  by  any 
employment  of  them  that  we  can  make. 

6.  It  is  not  necessary  for  me  to  speak  now  of  the  goods 
of  glory  attainable  in  the  life  to  come.  For  beside  that  the 
bodily  gifts  of  mobility  and  clarity,  in  glory,  will  be  much 
grander  than  in  those  who  have  not  denied  themselves 
in  this  joy,  there  will  be  an  increase  of  essential  glory, 
corresponding  to  their  love  of  God,  for  whom  they  have 
left  all  things  ;  because  every  momentary  and  fleeting 
joy,  which  we  now  deny,  will,  as  St.  Paul  has  said,  work 
in  us  eternally  an  infinite  weight  of  glory  :  ‘  That  which 
is  at  present  momentary  and  light  of  our  tribulation, 
worketh  for  us  above  measure  exceedingly  an  eternal 
weight  of  glory.’ f 

7.  I  do  not  refer  here  to  the  other  benefits,  moral, 

*  St.  John  iii.  6.  +  2  Cor.  iv.  17. 


320 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.] 

temporal  and  spiritual,  the  fruits  ot  this  night  of  joy, 
for  they  are  all  those  already  described,  and  in  a  higher 
order,  because  these  joys  are  more  intimately  related  to 
our  nature,  and,  therefore,  he  who  denies  himself  in  them 
acquires  a  more  interior  purity  thereby. 


CHAPTER  XXVI. 

The  fourth  kind  of  goods  :  moral  goods.  How  the  will  may 
lawfully  rejoice  in  them. 

The  fourth  kind  of  goods  in  which  the  will  rejoices 
are  moral  goods.  By  these  I  mean  virtues,  the  moral 
habits  of  them,  the  practice  of  any  virtue  whatever, 
works  of  mercy,  keeping  the  law  of  God  and  of  the  state, 
good  dispositions  and  temper.  These  moral  goods,  in 
possession  and  in  practice  deserve,  perhaps,  more  than 
the  other  three  kinds  I  have  mentioned,  that  the  will 
should  rejoice  in  them.  Man  may  rejoice  in  these  for 
one  of  two  reasons,  or  for  both  together,  either  because 
they  are  what  they  are,  or  because  of  the  benefits  which 
they  bring  with  them,  of  which  they  are,  as  it  were, 
instruments  or  means.  Now  the  possession  of  the  three 
other  kinds  of  goods  is  deserving  of  no  joy  whatever 
for  of  themselves  they  do  good  to  no  man,  neither  is  it  in 
them,  for  they  are  fleeting  and  frail,  yea,  rather  they  are 
the  occasions  of  pain  and  grief  and  sorrow  of  heart. 
Even  if  they  deserved  to  be  rejoiced  in  for  the  second 
reason,  namely,  that  man  may  employ  them  towards 
raising  his  soul  up  to  God,  yet  this  is  so  uncertain  that 
in  general  such  rejoicing  does  more  harm  than  good. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


321 


[CHAP.  XXVI.] 

2.  Moral  goods,  however,  deserve  some  joy  on  the  part 
of  their  possessor,  for  their  intrinsic  worth.  And  as  they 
bring  with  them  in  their  train  peace  and  tranquillity,  the 
right  use  of  reason,  and  a  consistent  conduct,  man  can¬ 
not,  humanly  speaking,  possess  anything  better  in  this 
world.  And  as  virtues  merit  love  and  esteem,  for  their 
own  sakes,  humanly  speaking,  men  may  well  rejoice  in 
the  possession  and  practice  of  them,  for  what  they  are 
in  themselves,  and  for  the  good,  human  and  temporal,  of 
which  they  are  the  channels. 

3.  It  was  in  this  sense  that  the  philosophers  and  wise 
men  and  princes  of  old  esteemed  and  commended  virtue, 
laboured  to  acquire  it  and  to  practise  it,  though  they 
were  heathens,  and  regarded  it  only  in  a  worldly  light, 
seeing  nothing  in  it  but  the  temporal,  bodily,  and  natural 
benefits  which  resulted  from  it.  They  not  only  obtained 
those  benefits,  and  the  reputation  they  aimed  at,  but 
more  than  this ;  God  Himself,  Who  loves  all  goodness, 
even  in  heathens  and  barbarians,  and  Who  hinders  no 
good,  as  it  is  written,  ‘  which  nothing  hindereth, 
beneficent,’  *  increased  their  substance,  honours, 
dominion,  and  peace.  He  thus  dealt  with  the  Romans  : 
because  they  enacted  good  laws,  He  made  them  masters 
almost  of  the  whole  world  ;  He  recompensed,  for  their 
good  customs  in  a  temporal  way,  those  who,  because  of 
their  unbelief,  were  incapable  of  the  everlasting  reward. 
God  loves  these  moral  goods  :  for  when  Solomon  asked 
for  wisdom  that  he  might  teach  his  people,  and  be  able  to 
rule  them  justly,  bringing  them  up  in  customs  that  were 
good,  He  was  so  pleased  with  his  prayer  that  He  said 

*  Wisd.  vii,  22. 


V 


322 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  m.j 


unto  him  :  *  Because  thou  hast  asked  this  thing,  and 
hast  not  asked  for  thyself  long  life  or  riches,  nor  the 
lives  of  thy  enemies,  but  hast  asked  for  thyself  wisdom 
to  discern  judgment,  behold  I  have  done  for  thee 
according  to  thy  words,  ....  yea,  and  the  things  also 
which  thou  didst  not  ask,  I  have  given  thee,  to  wit, 
riches  and  glory,  so  that  no  one  hath  been  like  thee 
among  the  kings  in  all  days  heretofore.’  * 

4.  Though  a  Christian,  too,  ought  to  rejoice  in  moral 
goods,  and  in  the  good  works  he  does,  because  they 
minister  to  his  temporal  well-being,  his  joy  ought  not  to 
stop  there  where  that  of  the  heathens  did,  who  saw 
nothing  beyond  this  mortal  life  ;  but  inasmuch  as  he  has 
the  light  of  faith,  by  which  he  hopes  for  everlasting  life, 
and  without  which  all  things  whatever  are  valueless,  his 
sole  and  chief  rejoicing  should  be  of  the  second  kind, 
namely,  that  eternal  life  is  the  reward  and  issue  of  the 
good  works  he  does  for  the  love  of  God.  All  his  care 
and  all  his  joy  ought  to  be  that  he  serves  and  honours 
God  by  his  virtues  and  good  life.  For  without  this  in¬ 
tention  all  our  virtues  are  worthless  in  the  sight  of  God, 
as  we  are  taught  in  the  parable  of  the  ten  virgins.  All 

these  had  preserved  their  virginity  and  had  wrought 

$ 

good  works,  yet  five  of  them,  whose  joy  therein  was  not 
of  the  second  kind,  directed  unto  God,  but  rather  of  the 
first,  for  they  rejoiced  and  gloried  in  mere  possession, 
were  denied  admission  into  heaven,  unacknowledged 
and  unrewarded  by  the  Bridegroom. f 

5.  There  have  been  many  persons  in  the  world  of 
old  times  who  had  some  virtue  and  did  good  works  ; 

*  3  Kings  iii.  u,  13.  t  St.  Matt.  xxv. 


323 


[CHAP.  XXVT.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

and  there  are  many  Christians  also  at  this  time,  who  are 
virtuous  men,  and  who  do  great  things,  but  their  virtue 
and  good  works  are  utterly  useless  in  the  matter  of 
eternal  life :  because  they  do  not,  in  them,  seek  the 
honour  and  glory  and  love  of  God  solely,  and  above  all 
things.  A  Christian  ought  to  rejoice,  not  because  of  his 
good  works  and  virtuous  life,  but  because  his  life  and 
acts  are  such  solely  for  the  love  of  God,  and  for  no  other 
reason  whatever.  For  as  work  done  only  for  God’s 
honour  will  have  a  greater  reward  of  glory,  so  good 
works  which  men  do  under  the  influence  of  other  con¬ 
siderations,  will  end  in  our  greater  confusion  in  the  sight 
of  God.  The  Christian,  therefore,  if  he  will  direct  his 
rejoicing  to  God  in  moral  goods,  must  keep  in  mind,  that 
the  value  of  his  good  works,  fasting,  almsgiving, 
penances,  and  prayers,  does  not  depend  on  their  number 
and  nature,  but  on  the  love  which  moves  him  to  per¬ 
form  them  for  God ;  and  that  they  are  then  most 
perfect  when  they  are  wrought  in  the  most  pure  and 
sincere  love  of  God,  and  with  the  least  regard  to  our 
own  present  and  future  interests,  to  joy  and  sweetness, 
consolation  and  praise.  The  heart,  therefore,  must  not 
rest  on  the  joy,  comfort,  delight,  and  advantages  which 
holy  habits  and  good  works  bring  with  them,  but  refer 
all  to  God,  purifying  itself  from  all  joy,  and  hiding  itself 
from  it  in  darkness ;  and  desiring  that  God  only  may 
rejoice  in  what  it  does  in  secret,  and  all  this  without 
respect  to  any  other  consideration  than  God’s  honour 
and  glory.  Thus  all  the  strength  of  the  will,  with 
regard  to  moral  goods,  will  be  all  concentrated  in 
God. 

V2 


324 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.J 


CHAPTER  XXVII. 

Seven  evils  to  which  men  are  liable  if  the  will  rejoices  in 

moral  goods. 

The  principal  evils  to  which  men  become  exposed 
through  the  rejoicing  of  the  will  in  good  works 
and  a  virtuous  life  are  seven  in  number,  and  most 
hurtful,  because  they  are  spiritual ;  I  shall  now  give  a 
brief  description  of  them  : 

2.  The  first  is  vanity,  pride,  vain  glory,  and  pre¬ 
sumption,  for  no  man  can  rejoice  in  his  own  works 
without  attributing  a  great  value  to  them.  From  this 
springs  boasting  and  other  faults  ;  an  instance  of  which 
we  have  in  the  Pharisee  who  in  his  prayer  boasted  of  his 
fasts  and  the  other  good  works  he  was  doing. 

3.  The  second  evil  is  generally  connected  with  the 
first,  and  it  is  this  :  we  come  to  judge  others,  and  to 
pronounce  them  to  be  comparatively  wicked  and  im¬ 
perfect,  and  their  good  works  to  be  inferior  to  ours ;  we 
despise  them  in  our  hearts,  and  sometimes  express  our¬ 
selves  contemptuously  about  them.  The  Pharisee  had 
fallen  into  this  also,  for  in  his  prayers  he  said,  ‘  O  God,  I 
give  Thee  thanks,  that  I  am  not  as  the  rest  of  men, 
extortioners,  unjust,  adulterers,  as  also  is  this  publican ; 
I  fast  twice  in  a  week.’*  Thus  by  one  act  he  fell  into 
these  two  evils,  namely,  self-esteem  and  contempt  of 
others,  as  many  do  daily,  who  say,  I  am  not  like  such  an 
one.  neither  is  my  life  such  as  his.  Yea,  many  of  them 
are  even  worse  than  the  Pharisee  ;  he  certainly  despised 


St.  Luke  xviii.  n,  12. 


325 


[CHAP.  XXVII.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

others  and  pointed  out  the  object  of  his  contempt,  saying, 

‘  this  publican  they,  indeed,  are  not  satisfied  with  this> 
but  give  way  to  anger  and  envy  when  they  hear  others 
praised,  or  that  they  are  doing  more,  or  are  more  useful 
men,  than  themselves. 

4.  The  third  evil  is  that,  as  they  look  for  their  own 
satisfaction  in  their  good  works,  they  will  in  general  do 
only  such  as  will  furnish  them  with  this  satisfaction,  or 
obtain  for  them  the  commendation  of  others.  They  do 
all  their  works,  as  our  Saviour  saith,  ‘  for  to  be  seen  of 
men,’*  and  not  for  God  alone. 

5.  The  fourth  evil  issues  out  of  the  third,  and  is  this  : 
God  will  not  reward  them  for  their  good  works,  because 
they  seek  it  here  in  this  world,  in  the  joy,  or  the  comfort, 
or  the  honourable  advantages  of  their  good  works ;  of 
them  our  Saviour  saith,  ‘Amen.  I  say  to  you,  they 
have  received  their  reward.’ f  They  will  therefore  have 
nothing  but  their  labour,  and  confusion  of  face  without 
its  reward.  The  children  of  men  are  so  miserably 
involved  in  this  evil  that,  in  my  opinion,  the  greater 
part  of  the  good  works,  which  are  publicly  done,  are 
either  vicious  or  worthless,  or  imperfect  and  defective  in 
God’s  sight,  because  men  do  not  detach  themselves  from 
self-interest  and  from  human  respect.  What  other 
opinion  can  we  form  of  those  good  works,  which  men  do, 
or  of  the  monuments  which  they  raise,  but  which  would 
have  been  undone  and  unbuilt,  if  their  authors  had  not 
been  influenced  by  worldly  honour,  human  respect,  and 
the  vanity  of  this  life  ?  Is  not  all  this  too  often  done  in 
order  to  perpetuate  a  name  or  a  pedigree,  or  to  mark 

St.  Matt,  xxiii.  5.  t  lb.  vi,  2. 


* 


326 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.] 

authority  and  lordship ;  and  that  to  the  extent  of  setting 
up  armorial  bearings  in  churches,  as  if  they  would  esta¬ 
blish  themselves  there  as  images  for  the  veneration  of 
men  ?  At  the  sight  of  these  good  works  of  some  people, 
we  may  well  say  that  men  respect  themselves  more  than 
God. 

6.  But  passing  from  these  who  are  the  worst,  how  many 
are  there  who  in  their  good  works  fall  into  these  evils  in 
many  ways  ?  Some  expect  their  good  works  to  be 
extolled,  others  expect  gratitude  for  them,  others  enume¬ 
rate  them,  and  delight  in  the  fact  that  such  and  such 
persons,  and  even  the  whole  world  are  aware  of  them  : 
sometimes  they  will  employ  a  third  person  to  convey 
their  alms,  or  to  do  any  other  good  work,  in  order  to 
make  it  the  more  known  ;  some,  too,  look  both  for  praise 
and  reward.  This  is  nothing'  else  but  to  sound  a 
trumpet  in  the  streets,  like  vain  men,  but  whom  God  for 
that  reason  will  never  reward.* 

7.  If  men  wish  to  avoid  this  evil  they  must  hide  their 
good  works  so  that  God  alone  shall  see  them,  and  they 
must  not  wish  any  one  to  think  much  of  them.  They 
must  hide  them  not  only  from  others,  but  from  them¬ 
selves  also ;  that  is,  they  must  take  no  satisfaction  in 
them  nor  regard  them  with  complacency,  as  if  they 
thought  them  of  any  value.  This  is  the  meaning  of 
those  words  of  our  Saviour  :  ‘  Let  not  thy  left  hand  know 
what  thy  right  hand  doth.’f  That  is,  do  not  look  with 
temporal  and  carnal  eyes  upon  thy  spiritual  works.  When 
this  precept  is  observed,  the  strength  of  the  will  is 

concentrated  in  God,  and  our  good  works  become  fruit- 
*  St.  Matt.  vi.  2.  •{■  lb.  vi.  3. 


327 


[CHAP.  XXVII.J  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

ful  in  His  sight ;  but  where  it  is  not  observed,  we  shall 
not  only  lose  our  labour,  but,  very  frequently,  because  of 
our  interior  boasting  and  vanity,  sin  grievously  against 
God.  Those  words  of  Job  also  are  to  be  understood  in 
this  sense  :  ‘  If  .  .  .  .  my  heart  in  secret  hath  rejoiced, 
and  I  have  kissed  my  hand  with  my  mouth,  which  is  a 
very  great  iniquity.5*  Here  the  ‘  hand 5  means  our  good 
works,  and  ‘  mouth 5  our  will  which  regards  them  with 
complacency.  This  is  self-complacency,  for  the  words 
of  Job  are,  if  my  ‘heart  hath  in  secret  rejoiced,' 
which  is  a  ‘great  iniquity,  and  a  denial  against  the 
Most  High  God,5  as  it  is  said  there.  To  attribute 
our  good  works  to  ourselves  is  to  deny  them  to 
be  God’s  from  Whom  all  good  works  proceed,  and  to 
follow  the  example  of  Lucifer,  who  rejoiced  in  himself, 
denying  to  God  what  was  His,  arrogating  it  to  himself. 

5.  The  fifth  evil  is,  that  men  of  this  kind  make  no 
progress  in  the  way  of  perfection ;  for  cleaving  to  the 
pleasure  and  comfort  of  their  good  works,  when  this 
pleasure  and  comfort  cease— which  is  usually  the  case 
when  God  seeks  their  advancement,  when  He  gives  them 
dry  bread,  which  is  the  bread  of  the  perfect,  when  He 
deprives  them  of  the  milk  of  babes,  when  He  tries  their 
strength,  and  purifies  their  delicate  appetites,  so  that 
they  may  be  able  to  taste  the  food  of  the  strong— they 
become  generally  faint  of  heart,  and  fail  to  persevere, 
because  their  good  works  are  no  longer  sources  of 
pleasure.  To  this  we  may  apply  in  a  spiritual  sense 
those  words  of  the  wise  man  :  ‘  Dying  flies  spoil  the 
sweetness  of  the  ointment.5 1  For  when  mortifications 
*  Job  xxxi.  26,  28.  t  Eccles.  x.  I 


328  THE  ASCENT  [BOOK  III.] 

come  in  their  way  they  die  to  their  good  works,  abandon 
them,  and  cease  to  persevere :  it  is  in  perseverance  that 
spiritual  sweetness  and  interior  comfort  consist. 

9.  The  sixth  evil  is  that  men  are  generally  deceiving 
themselves ;  considering  those  works  wherein  they  find 
delight  to  be  of  greater  importance  than  those  wherein 
they  find  none  :  they  praise  and  esteem  the  former,  but 
despise  and  reject  the  latter;  yet  those  works,  generally, 
in  which  a  man  is  most  mortified — especially  when  he  is 
not  advanced  in  perfection — are  more  pleasing  and 
precious  in  the  eyes  of  God,  by  reason  of  that  self-denial 
involved  in  their  performance,  than  those  good  works  in 
which  he  finds  consolation,  where  self-seeking  so  easily 
intrudes.  ‘The  evil  of  their  hand,’  saith  the  prophet, 
‘  they  call  good  that  is,  what  is  evil  in  their  work  they 
say  is  good.  And  they  come  to  this  because  they  derive 
their  joy  from  their  good  works,  and  not  from  pleasing 
God  only.  The  extent  of  this  evil,  among  spiritually 
minded  men  as  well  as  ordinary  Christians,  baffles  all 
description,  for  scarcely  any  one  can  be  found  who  doeth 
good  simply  for  the  love  of  God,  without  relying  on 
some  advantage  of  joy  or  comfort,  or  of  some  other 
consideration. 

10.  The  seventh  evil  is  that  man,  so  far  as  he  does 
not  suppress  all  joy  in  moral  good  works,  is  the  more 
incapable  of  listening  to  reasonable  counsel  and  instruc¬ 
tion  with  reference  to  his  duties.  The  habitual  weakness 
contracted  by  doing  good  workg  with  an  eye  to  this 
empty  joy,  so  fetters  him  that  he  cannot  accept  the 
advice  given  him  as  the  best,  or  if  he  does  so  accept  it 

*  Mich.  vii.  3. 


329 


[  CHAP.  XXVIII.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

he  cannot  act  upon  it,  through  lack  of  resolution.  The 
love  of  God  and  of  our  neighbour  is  greatly  weakened 
in  these  persons,  for  their  self-love,  which  they  indulge 
in  with  reference  to  their  own  good  works,  makes 
charity  cold. 


CHAPTER  XXVIII. 

The  benefits  of  repressing  all  joy  in  moral  goods. 

Very  great  benefits  result  to  the  soul,  provided  the  will 
is  restrained  from  vainly  rejoicing  in  moral  goods.  In 
the  first  place,  it  is  delivered  from  many  temptations 
and  illusions  of  Satan,  which  rejoicing  in  our  good  works 
secretly  involves,  as  we  learn  from  these  words  of  God  to 
Job:  ‘He  sleepeth  under  the  shadow,  in  the  covert  of 
the  reed,  and  in  moist  places.’  *  This  applies  to  the  evil 
spirit,  for  he  deceives  the  soul  in  the  moisture  of  joy  and 
in  the  hollow  of  the  reed,  that  is,  of  good  works  done 
through  vanity.  Nor  is  it  strange  that  the  devil  should 
deceive  it  secretly  in  this  rejoicing;  for,  independently 
of  the  devil’s  suggestion,  this  empty  joy  is  a  delusion 
itself,  especially  when  a  feeling  of  boasting  lurks  in  the 
heart,  as  it  is  written,  ‘  Thy  arrogancy  hath  deceived 
thee  and  the  pride  of  thy  heart.’ f  Can  there  be  a 
greater  delusion  than  that  of  boasting  ?  The  soul  is 
delivered  from  it  by  purifying  itself  from  this  joy. 

2.  The  second  benefit  is  that  our  good  works  are  done 
with  greater  deliberation  and  in  greater  perfection.  If 
the  passion  of  joy  and  sweetness  prevails,  no  delibera- 

t  Jerun.  xlix.  16. 


*  Job  xl.  1 6. 


330 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III- 1 

tion  can  be  had ;  for  then  rage  and  desire  are  so  strong 
that  they  will  not  bend  to  reason  ;  and,  in  general,  under 
their  influence  we  change  our  works  and  intentions, 
taking  one  thing  in  hand  to-day  and  another  to¬ 
morrow,  beginning  everything  and  bringing  nothing  to 
good  effect.  If  joy  be  the  main- spring  of  our  work,  we 
shall  be  inconsistent :  some  men  are  naturally  more  so 
than  others ;  and  when  our  joy  ceases,  we  abstain  also 
rom  our  work  and  our  resolution,  however  important 
hey  may  be.  With  people  of  this  kind,  joy  is  the  soul 
and  strength  of  their  good  works  ;  and  when  that  joy 
disappears  their  good  works  perish,  and  they  do  not 
persevere.  These  are  they  of  whom  Christ  saith,  that 
they  receive  the  word  with  joy,  and  that  the  devil  takes 
it  away  forthwith  that  they  may  not  persevere.  ‘  They  by 
the  wayside  are  they  that  hear ;  then  the  devil  cometh 
and  taketh  the  word  out  of  their  heart,  lest  believing 
they  should  be  saved.’*  That  is  so,  because  all  their 
strength  and  support  was  nothing  else  but  this  joy,  and 
therefore  to  withdraw  the  will  from  it  is  an  admirable 
preparation  for  perseverance  and  final  success.  Thir 
benefit,  then,  is  as  great  as  is  the  opposite  evil.  The 
wise  man  regards  the  substance  and  fruit  of  his  labous 
not  the  pleasure  and  joy  which  it  brings  :  he  is  not  like 
one  beating  the  air,  but  he  reaps  from  his  good  works  a 
durable  joy,  without  demanding  the  tribute  of  delights. 

3.  The  third  benefit  is  divine;  by  quenching  this 
hollow  rejoicing  in  our  works  we  attain  to  poverty  of 
spirit,  which  is  one  of  the  beatitudes  :  ‘  Blessed  are  the 
poor  in  spirit,  for  theirs  is  the  kingdom  of  heaven.’  f 

+  St.  Matt.  v.  3. 


*  St.  Luke  viii.  12. 


331 


[CHAP.  XXIX.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

4.  The  fourth  benefit  of  suppressing  this  joy  is,  that 
we  become  gentle,  humble,  and  prudent  in  our  doings. 
We  shall  do  nothing  in  a  hurry,  carried  away  by  the 
rage  and  desire  of  this  joy ;  neither  shall  we  become 
presumptuous  through  overvaluing  our  good  works 
under  the  influence  of  it ;  nor  shall  we  be  incautiously 
blinded  by  it. 

5.  The  fifth  benefit  is  that  we  shall  become  pleasing 
unto  God  and  man,  delivered  from  the  dominion  of 
avarice  and  gluttony,  spiritual  sloth  and  envy,  and  a 
thousand  other  vices. 


CHAPTER  XXIX. 

The  fifth  kind  of  goods,  in  which  the  will  has  joy  ;  the  super¬ 
natural.  Their  nature,  and  the  difference  between  them  and 
spiritual  goods.  How  joy  in  them  is  to  be  directed  unto 
God. 

I  HAVE  now  to  speak  of  the  fifth  kind  of  goods  in  which 
the  soul  rejoices,  and  which  I  call  supernatural.  By  these 
I  mean  all  those  gifts  and  graces  of  God,  which  surpass 
our  natural  powers  and  capacities,  called  by  theologians 
gratis  datce — such  as  the  gifts  of  ‘  wisdom  and  under¬ 
standing’*  given  to  Solomon,  and  those  mentioned  by 
St.  Paul,  namely  ‘faith,  the  grace  of  healing,  working  of 
miracles,  prophecy,  the  knowledge  and  discerning  of 
spirits,  the  interpretation  of  words,  and  also  the  gift 
of  tong'ues/  f  Though  these  are  really  also  spiritual 
gifts,  like  those  of  which  I  am  about  to  speak,  still, 
owing  to  the  great  difference  between  them,  I  make  this 

t  i  Cor.  xii.  9,  io. 


*  3  Kings  iv.  29. 


332 


THE  ASCENT 


['BOOK  III.] 


distinction.  These  gifts,  in  the  use  of  them,  have  an 
immediate  reference  to  the  edification  of  men,  and  are 
given  by  God  for  that  special  end,  as  the  Apostle  saith, 
speaking  of  these  graces :  ‘  The  manifestation  of  the 
Spirit  is  given  to  every  man  unto  profit.’*  But  as  to 
the  spiritual  graces,  the  use  and  practice  of  them  is  solely 
between  the  soul  and  God,  between  God  and  the  soul 
through  the  understanding  and  the  will,  as  I  shall  show 
later  on.f  There  is  therefore  a  difference  between  them 
if  considered  with  respect  to  their  object.  The  spiritual 
gifts  are  concerned  with  God  and  the  soul,  but  the  other 
supernatural  gifts,  with  which  I  have  now  to  do,  are 
intended  for  the  edification  of  others  ;  they  differ,  too,  in 
their  nature,  and  consequently  iu  their  operations,  and 
the  doctrine  concerning  them  is  therefore  of  necessity 
different  also. 

2.  As  to  the  supernatural  gifts  and  graces,  in  this  sense, 
it  is  well  to  observe,  with  reference  to  self-denial  in  the 
matter  of  empty  joy  in  them,  that  there  are  two  great 
blessings  in  this  kind  of  good,  namely,  temporal  and 
spiritual.  The  temporal  blessings  are  the  healing  of 
the  sick,  giving  sight  to  the  blind,  the  raising  of  the  dead 
to  life,  the  casting  out  of  devils,  foretelling  of  future 
events  to  make  men  careful,  and  others  of  this  kind.  The 
spiritual  and  eternal  blessings  are,  that  God  is  known  and 
served  through  these  works  by  him  who  doeth  them, 
and  by  those  for  whom  and  before  whom  they  are 
wrought. 

3.  Now  as  to  the  first  blessing,  namely,  the  temporal : 
these  supernatural  acts  and  wonders  merit  little  or  no 

*  i  Cor.  xii.  7.  t  Ch.  xxxii.  infr. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


333 


[chap,  xxix.] 

rejoicing  on  the  part  of  the  soul,  for  without  the  spiritual 
benefit  they  are  of  little  or  no  profit  to  men,  because  of 
themselves,  they  are  not  means  of  union  with  God,  but 
charity  is.  Moreover,  they  may  be  wrought  by  persons 
not  in  a  state  of  grace  and  of  charity  ;  for  they  may  be 
either  really  the  work  of  God,  as  in  Balaam,  the  impious 
prophet,  or  the  deceitful  operations  of  the  devil,  as  in 
Simon  Magus,  or  the  effects  of  mere  natural  but  secret 
causes.  These  marvellous  works,  if  any  of  them  profit 
him  who  works  them,  are  true,  and  the  gifts  of  God. 

4.  St.  Paul  tells  us  what  the  value  of  these  works  is,  when 
they  are  not  accompanied  by  the  second  blessing,  saying  . 
‘  If  I  speak  with  the  tongues  of  men  and  of  angels,  and 
have  not  charity,  I  am  become  as  sounding  brass,  or  a 
tinkling  cymbal.  And  if  I  should  have  prophecy,  and 
should  know  all  mysteries  and  all  knowledge,  and  if  I 
should  have  all  faith,  so  that  I  could  remove  moun¬ 
tains,  and  have  not  charity,  I  am  nothing.’*  Many 
men  who  have  thought  much  of  their  own  good  works, 
when  asking  to  be  admitted  unto  His  glory,  will  say, 
‘  Have  not  we  prophesied  in  Thy  name  .  .  .  and  done 
many  miracles  in  Thy  name?’  Christ  our  Redeemer 
will  answer  :  ‘  Depart  from  Me,  you  that  work 
iniquity.’! 

5.  Man,  therefore,  ought  to  rejoice,  not  in  the 
possession  and  exercise  of  these  gifts,  but  in  that  he 
derives  from  them  the  second  spiritual  fruit,  namely, 
serving  God  in  true  charity,  wherein  consists  the  fruit  of 
everlasting  life.  Our  Lord  rebuked  His  disciples  when 
they  returned  to  Him  with  joy  because  they  had  power 

t  St.  Matt.  vii.  22,  23. 


*  I  Cor.  xiii.  I,  2. 


334 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  HI.] 

over  evil  spirits,  saying,  ‘Rejoice  not  in  this,  that  spirits 
are  subject  unto  you  :  but  rejoice  in  this,  that  your  names 
are  written  in  heaven.'*  The  meaning  of  which,  accord¬ 
ing  to  sound  theology,  is  :  Rejoice,  if  your  names  are 
written  in  the  book  of  life.  Man,  therefore,  ought  not  to 
rejoice,  unless  he  is  walking  in  the  right  way,  doing  his 
good  works  in  charity.  For  of  what  profit  is  anything 
in  the  sight  of  God  which  is  not  His  love  ?  Now  that 
love  cannot  be  perfect  if  it  is  not  strong  enough  and 
wise  enough  to  purify  itself  from  all  joy  in  these  things, 
and  to  find  it  only  in  doing  the  will  of  God.  It  is  in 
this  way  that  the  will  is  united  to  God  by  the  help  of 
these  supernatural  goods. 


CHAPTER  XXX. 

The  evils  resulting  from  the  will’s  rejoicing  in  this  kind  of 

goods. 

He  who  rejoices  in  supernatural  goods  falls,  in  my 
opinion,  into  three  principal  evils.  Deceit  and  self- 
deceit,  loss  of  faith,  vain  glory,  and  other  vanities. 

2.  As  to  the  first,  it  is  very  easy  to  deceive  oneself 
and  others  by  rejoicing  in  these  supernatural  operations. 
The  reason  of  that  is  this :  in  order  to  ascertain 
whether  they  are  true  or  false,  how  and  when  they  are 
to  be  exerted,  great  deliberation  and  great  light  from 
God  are  necessary.  Now  our  rejoicing  in,  and  esteeming, 
these  operations,  are  a  great  hindrance  to  this,  partly 
because  the  joy  in  question  dulls  and  obscures  the 

judgment,  and  partly  also  because  it  makes  us  not  only 

*  St.  Luke  x.  20. 


335 


[CHAP.  XXX.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

covet  these  operations  extremely,  but  also  inclines  us  to 
an  unseasonable  manifestation  of  them.  Admitting 
even  that  these  operations  and  powers  be  real,  yet 
these  two  defects  are  enough  to  delude  us  :  either  we  do 
not  comprehend  them  as  they  ought  to  be  compre¬ 
hended,  or  we  do  not  profit  by  them  and  employ  them  at 
the  right  time  and  in  the  right  way.  For  though  it  be 
true  that  God,  when  He  distributes  these  gifts  and 
graces,  gives  also  the  light  to  see  them,  and  the  inward 
movement  to  manifest  them  at  the  right  time  and  in  the 
right  wray  ;  still  those  who  receive  them,  because  of  their 
self-seeking  or  some  imperfection  or  other  in  the  matter, 
may  fall  into  great  errors,  by  not  using  their  gifts  with 
that  perfectness  which  God  requires  with  respect  to  time 
and  manner.  We  have  an  example  in  Balaam,  who, 
contrary  to  the  will  of  God,  undertook  to  curse  the 
people  of  Israel.  God  was  therefore  angry  with  him, 
and  sought  to  kill  him.*  Again,  in  St.  James  and  St. 
John,  who,  carried  away  by  their  zeal,  would  have  fire 
descend  from  heaven  upon  the  Samaritans,  because 
they  refused  to  receive  our  Lord.  For  this  He  rebuked 
them.f 

3.  It  is  clear  from  this  that  imperfect  persons,  of 
whom  I  am  speaking,  may  be  influenced  by  certain 
imperfect  feelings  involved  in  the  joy  and  esteem  of 
these  gifts,  to  manifest  them  at  an  improper  time.  For 
when  they  are  free  from  the  like  imperfections,  they 
are  moved  to  manifest  them  only  as,  and  when,  God 
wills ;  in  no  other  way  is  the  manifestation  of  them 
right.  This  is  the  meaning  of  that  complaint  which 


*  Num.  xxii.  22,  23, 


t  S.  Luke  ix.  54. 


336 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  HI.] 

God  makes  by  the  mouth  of  Jeremias  against  certain 
prophets,  saying:  ‘  I  did  not  send  prophets,  yet  they 
ran  ;  I  have  not  spoken  to  them,  yet  they  prophesied.’  * 
And  again  :  They  cause  my  people  to  err  by  their  lying, 
and  by  their  wonders  ;  when  I  sent  them  not,  nor  com¬ 
manded  them.’  t  It  is  said  in  the  same  place  also  that 
they  prophesied  the  delusions  of  their  own  heart,  which 
they  would  not  have  done  had  they  not  attached  them¬ 
selves  in  this  abominable  way  to  their  gifts,  using  them 
as  their  own. 

4.  All  this  shows  us  that  the  evil  of  such  rejoicing  not 
only  leads  men  to  make  an  impious  and  perverse  usage 
of  the  gifts  of  God,  like  Balaam  and  those  prophets  who, 
by  the  wonders  which  they  wrought,  deceived  the  people; 
but  even  to  make  use  of  them  without  having  received 
them  from  God,  like  those  who  uttered  their  own  fancies 
for  prophecies,  and  published  visions  which  themselves 
invented,  or  which  the  devil  represented  to  them.  For 
when  Satan  sees  nen  with  such  dispositions  as  these,  he 
opens  for  them  a  wide  field,  and  supplies  them  with 
abundant  materials,  intruding  himself  in  diverse  ways  : 
whereupon  such  men  spread  their  sails  to  the  wind, 
become  shamelessly  presumptuous,  and  prodigal  in  the 
usage  of  their  great  gifts. 

5.  The  evil  does  not  stop  here,  for  joy  in  supernatural 
gifts,  and  the  desire  of  them,  reach  so  far  that,  if  men 
have  entered  into  a  secret  compact  with  Satan— it  is 
such  a  compact  that  enables  many  to  do  what  they  are 
doing — they  venture  still  further,  and  enter  into  an  open 
and  avowed  compact,  making  themselves  his  disciples 

*  Jerem.  xxiii.  21.  t  lb.  32. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


337 


[chap,  xxx.j 

and  allies  by  an  express  stipulation.  Hence  come 
wizards,  enchanters,  magicians,  soothsayers,  and 
sorcerers.  This  joy  leads  men  so  far,  that  they  seek  to 
purchase  with  money,  not  only  these  gifts  and  graces, 
as  did  Simon  Magus,  that  they  may  serve  the  devil,  but 
holy  things  also,  and — I  cannot  write  it  without  trembling 
—things  divine.  May  God  here  show  His  great  mercy  i 
How  hurtful  to  themselves,  and  ruinous  to  Christendom 
are  such  men,  any  one  may  easily  perceive.  All  those 
magicians  and  soothsayers  among  the  people  of  Israel, 
whom  Saul  destroyed  out  of  the  land,*  had  fallen  into 
these  great  abominations  and  delusions,  because  they 
would  imitate  the  true  prophets  of  God. 

6.  He  who  is  supernaturally  endowed  ought,  therefore, 
to  cleanse  himself  from  all  desire  of,  and  from  all  joy  in, 
the  exercise  of  his  supernatural  gifts  ;  and  God,  Who 
gives  them  supernaturally  for  the  edification  of  the 
Church,  in  general,  or  of  its  members,  in  particular,  will 
also  supernaturally  direct  him  in  the  use  of  them,  in  the 
right  way  and  at  the  right  time.  As  He  commanded 
His  disciples  to  take  no  thought  beforehand  how  or 
what  they  should  speak, f  that  being  a  supernatural  act 
of  faith,  so  also  is  it  His  will — the  use  of  these  gifts 
being  of  not  less  importance — that  man  should  bide  His 
time,  because  the  exercise  of  these  gifts  is  to  depend 
upon  His  will.  Thus  the  disciples,  in  whom  these  gifts 
and  graces  were  infused,  prayed  God,  nevertheless,  to 
put  forth  His  hand,  that  they  might  work  miracles  and 
heal  the  sick  and  thereby  plant  the  faith  of  Jesus  Christ 
our  Lord  in  the  hearts  of  men  :  ‘  Grant  unto  Thy  servants 

*  i  Kings  xxviii.  3.  t  S.  Mark  xiii.  II. 

w 


338 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.J 

that  with  all  confidence  they  may  speak  Thy  W ord,  by 
stretching  forth  Thy  hand  to  cures ;  and  that  signs  and 
wonders  may  be  done  by  the  name  of  Thy  Holy  Son 
Jesus.'* 

7.  The  second  evil,  loss  of  faith,  may  come  from  the 
first,  and  this  in  two  ways.  The  first  concern  others  ;  for 
when  a  man  undertakes  to  perform  a  miracle,  out  of 
season,  and  without  necessity— over  and  above  that  this 
is  to  tempt  God,  which  is  a  great  sin — he  may  not 
succeed,  and  so  the  faith  will  lose  credit  and  reverence 
among  men.  Though  sometimes  men  may  succeed  in 
what  they  thus  attempt,  because  God  wills  it  for  some 
reason  or  other,  as  in  the  case  of  the  witch  of  Endor — 
if  it  be  true  that  it  was  Samuel  himself  who  then 
appeared — they  shall  not  always  succeed ;  and  when 
they  do  succeed,  they  are  not  the  less  in  error  and 
blameable,  because  they  use  their  gifts  when  they  ought 
not. 

8.  The  second  concerns  him  who  uses  these  gifts  when 
he  ought  not;  he  injures  himself  because  he  loses  the 
merit  of  faith.  For  when  men  attach  so  much  impor¬ 
tance  to  miracles,  they  depart  from  the  substantial 
exercise  of  faith,  which  is  an  obscure  habit ;  and  thus 
where  signs  and  miracles  abound,  there  is  the  less  merit 
in  believing.  ‘Faith  has  no  merit,’  saith  S.  Gregory  the 
Great,  ‘where  human  reason  supplies  proof.’f  God 
works  miracles  when  they  are  necessary  for  the  faith,  or 
for  other  ends  of  His  glory,  and  of  His  saints.  For  this 
reason  did  God  work  many  signs,  before  He  showed 
Himself  to  His  disciples;  that  they  might  believe 

*  Acts  iv.  29,  30.  f  Horn.  26,  in  Evangel. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


339 


[CHAP.  XXX.] 

without  seeing-,  and  so  not  lose  the  merit  ol  faith  in  His 
resurrection,  which  they  would  have  done  had  they  seen 
Him  first.  He  showed  to  Mary  Magdalene  first  the 
empty  sepulchre,  and  then  the  ang'els,  at  His  bidding, 
announced  His  rising  again;*  for  ‘Faith  cometh  by 
hearing,’  f  so  that  having  heard,  she  might  believe 
before  she  saw.  And  when  He  showed  Himself  unto 
her,  it  was  as  the  gardener,  +  that  He  might  thoroughly 
edify  her  in  the  faith,  which  was  failing  her  in  the 
warmth  of  His  presence.  He  sent  the  women  to  tell 
His  disciples  that  He  had  risen;  and  afterwards  they 
came  to  see  the  sepulchre.  §  He  set  on  fire  the  hearts  of 
the  disciples  on  the  road  to  Emmaus  before  they  knew 
Him  ;  for  He  was  with  them  in  disguise.  And  finally, 
He  rebuked  them  all  because  they  did  not  believe  those 
who  told  them  of  His  resurrection  ;  ||  and  in  particular, 
St.  Thomas — because  he  would  have  palpable  proof  ol 
His  resurrection — saying  ‘  Blessed  are  they  that  have 
not  seen,  and  have  believed.’  If  God  is  not  pleased  when 
miracles  are  sought,  for  He  rebuked  the  Pharisees 
because  they  would  not  believe  without  them,  saying  : 
‘Unless  you  see  signs  and  wonders,  you  believe  not.’** 
Those,  therefore,  who  will  rejoice  in  these  supernatural 
gifts,  inflict  upon  themselves  a  grievous  loss  in  the 
matter  of  faith. 

9.  The  third  evil  is  that  men,  because  of  their  rejoicing 
in  supernatural  gifts,  fall  into  vain-glory  or  some  othet 
vanity.  The  mere  act  of  rejoicing  in  them,  if  not  purely 

*  St.  John  xx.  2  ;  St.  Luke  xxiv.  6.  +  Rom.  x.  17. 

J  St.  John  xx.  15.  §  St.  Matt,  xxviii.  10  ;  St.  John  xx.  3 

||  St.  Luke  xxiv.  15,  26.  IT  St.  John  xx.  29. 

*  *  St.  John  iv.  48. 


W2 


340 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.] 

in  and  for  God,  is  vanity.  This  is  evident  from  the  fac 
that  our  Lord  rebuked  His  disciples,  because  they 
rejoiced  in  that  the  evil  spirits  were  subject  unto  them.* 
If  that  joy  had  not  been  vanity,  our  Lord  would  never 
have  rebuked  them  for  it. 


CHAPTER  XXXI. 

The  benefits  of  self-denial  in  the  joy  of  supernatural  graces. 

By  denying  itself  in  this  joy,  the  soul  gains  two  great 
benefits  besides  its  deliverance  from  those  three  evils 
already  described.  The  first  is  that  it  magnifies  and 
exalts  God,  and  the  second  is  the  exaltation  of  itself 
God  is  exalted  in  the  soul  in  two  ways.  Firstly,  when 
the  heart  and  the  joy  of  the  will  are  withheld  from  all 
that  is  not  God,  and  fixed  upon  Him  alone.  This  is  the 
meaning  of  David  in  the  words  already  referred  to  when 
I  began  to  speak  of  the  night  of  this  power  of  the  will,t 
which  are  these  :  ‘  Man  shall  come  to  a  deep  heart,  and 
God  shall  be  exalted  +  for  if  the  heart  be  exalted  above 
all  things,  the  soul  will  be  exalted  above  them  also. 
And  because  it  thus  fixes  itself  upon  God  alone,  God  is 
exalted  and  magnified,  making  known  to  the  soul  His 
own  magnificence  and  greatness  ;  for,  in  this  elevation 
of  joy,  He  testifieth  of  Himself,  Who  He  is.  Now  this 
cannot  be  done  unless  the  will  is  emptied  of  all  joy  in 
supernatural  gifts,  as  it  is  written,  ‘  Be  still,  and  see  that 
I  am  God,’  §  and  again,  ‘  In  a  desert  land,  and  where 

*  St.  Luke  x.  20.  t  Ch.  xv.  above  :  but  there  is  no  mention  there  of  those 

words. 

X  Ps.  lxiii.  7,  S. 


§  Fs.  xlv.  II. 


341 


[CHAP.  XXXI.J  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

there  is  no  way,  and  no  water,  so  in  the  sanctuary  have 
I  come  before  Thee,  to  see  Thy  power  and  glory.’* 

2.  As  God,  therefore,  is  exalted,  when  our  joy  is 
grounded  on  our  detachment  from  all  things,  much  more 
is  He  exalted  Avhen  we  refrain  from  joy  in  His  most 
marvellous  works  to  place  it  in  Him  alone ;  for  these 
graces  are  of  a  higher  nature  by  reason  of  their  super¬ 
natural  character,  and  therefore  to  detach  ourselves  from 
them  to  rejoice  in  God  alone,  is  to  give  greater  honour 
and  glory  to  God  than  to  them  ;  for  the  more  numerous 
and  important  are  the  things  we  disregard  for  the  sake 
of  another,  the  more  we  esteem  and  magnify  him. 
Besides,  God  is  exalted  in  the  other  way  when  the  will 
is  withdrawn  from  these  gifts :  for  the  more  we  believe 
in  God  and  serve  Him  without  regard  to  signs  and 
wonders,  the  more  is  He  exalted  in  the  soul :  seeing 
that  our  faith  in  Him  is  higher  than  the  teaching  of 
signs  and  wonders. 

3.  The  second  benefit  is  the  exaltation  of  the  soul  itself; 
for  by  withholding  the  will  from  rejoicing  in  signs  and 
wonders,  the  soul  is  exalted  in  most  pure  faith  wh/ch 
God  infuses  into  it  and  increases  most  abundantly.  He 
increases  also  at  the  same  time  the  two  other  theological 
virtues,  charity  and  hope.  Here  the  soul  has  the  fruition 
of  the  highest  divine  knowledge  through  the  obscure 
and  detached  habit  of  faith;  of  the  delights  of  love 
through  charity,  whereby  the  will  rejoices  in  nothing  but 
in  the  living  God;  and  of  the  satisfaction  of  the  will 
through  hope.  All  this  is  a  wonderful  benefit  which 
essentially  and  directly  tends  to  the  perfect  union  of  the 
soul  with  God, 


*  Ps.  Ixii.  3. 


342 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  ITT.] 


CHAPTER  XXXII. 

The  sixth  kind  of  goods  in  which  the  will  rejoices.  Their  nature. 

The  first  division  of  them. 

The  chief  object  of  my  book  being  the  guiding  of  the 
spirit  through  these  spiritual  goods  to  the  divine  union 
of  the  soul  with  God,  it  will  be  necessary  for  me,  and  for 
my  reader,  now  that  I  am  speaking  of  the  sixth  kind  of 
these  spiritual  goods  which  conduces  the  most  to  that 
end,  to  bestow  particular  attention  on  the  matter.  For 
it  is  quite  certain  that  there  are  people  who,  because  of 
their  want  of  knowledge,  make  use  of  spiritual  things  in 
the  order  of  sense  only,  leaving  the  spirit  empty  ;  so  that 
there  is  scarcely  any  one,  the  better  part  of  whose  spirit 
is  not  corrupted  by  sensible  sweetness,  the  water  being 
drunk  up  before  it  reaches  to  the  spirit,  which  is,  there¬ 
fore,  left  dry  and  barren. 

2.  With  reference  then  to  my  subject,  I  say,  that  by 
spiritual  goods  I  mean  all  those  that  move  us  and  help 
us  in  divine  things,  in  the  intercourse  of  the  soul  with 
God,  and  in  the  communications  of  God  to  the  soul. 

3.  I  begin  with  the  generic  difference  of  these  goods, 
namely,  sweet  and  bitter.  Each  of  these  is  again  speci¬ 
fically  divided.  The  sweet  goods  are  of  things  clear, 
distinctly  understood,  and  of  things  that  are  not  so.  The 
bitter  also  are  divided  into  clear  and  distinct,  and  con¬ 
fused  and  obscure. 

4.  These  may  also  be  distinguished  according  to  the 
powers  of  the  soul.  Some,  being  knowledge,  pertain  to 
the  understanding;  some,  being  affections,  petrain  to 


343 


[CHAP.  XXXIII.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

the  will ;  and  others,  being  imaginary,  pertain  to  the 
memory.  For  the  present  I  do  not  speak  of  the  bitter 
goods,  because  they  belong  to  the  passive  night,  and  I 
shall  have  to  speak  of  them  hereafter.*  I  omit  also  the 
sweet  goods  of  things  confused  and  indistinct  that  I  may 
treat  of  them  later  ;f  they  relate  to  the  general  confused 
and  loving  knowledge  wherein  consists  the  union  of  the 
soul  with  God.  I  passed  it  over  in  the  second  book,+ 
when  I  was  distinguishing  between  the  apprehensions  of 
the  understanding,  reserving  it  for  more  careful  con¬ 
sideration  in  the  book  of  the  Dark  Night. §  I  now  pro¬ 
ceed  to  speak  of  those  sweet  goods,  which  are  of  things 
clear  and  distinct. 


CHAPTER  XXXIII. 

Of  the  spiritual  goods  distinctly  cognisable  by  the  understanding 
and  the  memory.  The  conduct  of  the  will  with  respect  to 
joy  in  them. 

My  labour  would  be  great  here  if  I  had  now  to  treat  of 
the  manifold  apprehensions  of  the  understanding  and  the 
memory,  teaching  how  to  govern  the  will  with  regard  to 
rejoicing  in  them,  if  I  had  not  already  discussed  them  at 
considerable  length  in  the  second  ||  and  in  the  third 
book.lf  Having  there  said  how  these  two  powers  are  to 
be  directed  amid  these  apprehensions  to  the  divine 
union,  and  that  the  same  applies  to  the  will  also,  it  is 
not  necessary  to  return  to  the  subject  here,  it  being 

*  Dark  Night,  Bk.  ii.  ch.  v.  t  Ibid  ch.  xiii. 

$  Ch.  x.  and  xxiii.  §  Bio  i.  ch.  x. 

||  Ch.  viii.  and  xxiii.  11  Ch.  xi.  and  xv. 


344 


THE  ASCENT 


[book  in.] 

sufficient  to  repeat  that  as  these  two  powers  are  to  be 
emptied  of  all  such  apprehensions,  so  the  will  also  is  to 
repress  all  joy  whatever  in  them. 

2.  What  I  have  there  said  of  emptying  the  memory  and 
the  understanding  of  all  these  apprehensions  is  applic¬ 
able  to  the  will ;  for  seeing  that  the  understanding  and 
the  other  powers  cannot  admit  or  reject  without  the 
intervention  of  the  will,  it  is  clear  that  the  same  principle 
applies  to  the  one  as  well  as  to  the  other.  Every 
explanation,  therefore,  that  the  subject  requires  may  be 
found  there,  for  all  the  evils  and  dangers  there  enu¬ 
merated  will  befall  the  soul  if  it  does  not  refer  unto  God 
all  the  joy  of  the  will  in  these  apprehensions. 


CHAPTER  XXXIV. 

Of  the  sweet  spiritual  goods  which  distinctly  affect  the  will. 

Their  diversities. 

Everything  that  furnishes  a  distinct  joy  to  the  will  may 
be  classed  under  four  heads  :  motive,  provocative,  direc¬ 
tive,  and  perfective.  I  shall  speak  of  these  in  order,  and 
first  of  the  motive,  which  are  images,  pictures  of  saints, 
oratories,  and  ceremonies. 

2.  In  that  which  relates  to  images  and  pictures  of 
saints  much  vanity  and  empty  joy  may  be  found.  For 
while  they  are  of  great  importance  in  divine  service,  and 
very  necessary  to  move  the  will  to  devotion,  as  is 
evident  from  the  sanction  and  use  of  them  by  our  mother 
the  Church — that  is  a  reason  why  we  should  profit  by 
them  to  quicken  us  in  our  sloth—  there  are  many  people 


345 


[CHAP.  XXXIV.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

who  rejoice  more  in  the  painting  and  decoration  of  them 
than  in  that  which  they  represent. 

3.  The  Church  ordains  the  use  of  images  for  two 
principal  ends  :  that  is,  for  the  honour  of  the  saints,  and 
for  the  moving  of  the  will  and  the  quickening  of  our 
devotion  to  them.  And  so  far  as  they  minister  to  this 
end,  they  are  of  great  profit,  and  the  use  of  them  is  neces¬ 
sary.  Those  pictures  therefore  are  to  be  preferred  which 
are  most  accurately  drawn,  and  which  most  effectually 
excite  the  will  to  devotion ;  we  ought  to  regard  this 
more  than  the  value,  curious  workmanship,  and  decora¬ 
tions.  There  are  people,  as  I  have  said,  who  look  more 
to  the  curious  nature  of  the  image  and  its  value  than 
they  do  to  the  saint  it  represents.  They  so  squander 
that  inward  devotion,  which  ought  to  be  spiritually 
directed  to  the  unseen  saint,  in  demonstrations  of  out¬ 
ward  affection  and  curiosity,  that  the  senses  are  pleased 
and  delighted,  and  the  love  and  the  joy  of  the  will  rest 
there.  All  this  is  an  effectual  hindrance  to  real 
spirituality,  which  requires  the  annihilation  of  the  affec¬ 
tions  in  all  particular  objects. 

4.  This  is  clearly  visible  in  that  hateful  custom  observed 
nowadays  by  certain  persons  who,  not  holding  in  abhor¬ 
rence  the  vanities  of  the  world,  adorn  the  sacred  images 
with  those  garments  which  a  frivolous  race  daily  invents 
for  the  satisfaction  of  its  wanton  recreations  and  diver¬ 
sions.  They  clothe  the  images  with  those  garments 
which  in  them  are  reprehensible,  and  which  the  saints 
have  always  held,  and  still  hold,  in  detestation.  It  is 
thus  that  they  conspire  with  the  devil  to  procure  some 
sanction  for  their  vanities,  involving  the  saints  therein. 


346  THE  ASCENT  [BOOK  III.] 

but  not  without  offending  them  most  deeply.  The 
consequence  is  that  all  modest  and  sound  devotion, 
which  utterly  rejects  every  trace  of  vanity,  is  with  such 
people  little  more  than  the  elaborate  and  superfluous 
decoration  of  images  and  curious  pictures,  to  which  they 
are  attached  and  in  which  they  place  their  joy.  You 
see  people  who  are  never  satisfied  with  adding  image  to 
image,  who  reject  them  if  they  are  not  made  after  a 
particular  pattern,  and  who  must  have  them  arranged 
in  a  particular  order,  so  as  to  please  the  sense; 
meanwhile  the  devotion  of  the  heart  is  very  slight.  They 
hold  to  their  images  as  Michas  to  his  idols,  who  when  he 
lost  them  ran  out  of  his  house  crying  because  they  had 
been  taken  away  ;*  or  as  Laban,  who  made  a  long 
journey  to  recover  them,  and  in  his  anger  searched  for 
them  in  the  tents  of  Jacob. t 

5.  A  devout  man  grounds  his  devotion  chiefly  on  the 
invisible;  he  requires  but  few  images,  and  uses  but 
few,  and  such  as  are  more  in  harmony  with  divine  than 
with  human  taste  ;  fashioning  them  and  himself  upon 
them,  according  to  the  pattern  of  another  age;  and  the 
habits  of  the  saints,  and  not  of  this  ;  so  that  the  fashion 
of  this  world  may  not  only  not  excite  the  desire,  but  not 
even  recur  to  the  memory,  through  the  sight  of  anything 
resembling  it  or  appertaining  unto  it.  Neither  are  his 
affections  entangled  by  the  images  he  uses,  for  if  they  be 
taken  from  him,  he  is  not  therefore  distressed,  because 
he  seeks  within  himself  the  living  image,  which  is  Christ 
crucified,  in  Whom  he  desires  rather  that  all  things 
should  be  taken  from  him  and  that  all  things  should  fail 

*  Judg.  xviii.  23,  24.  f  Gen.  xxxi.  34. 


[CHAP.  XXXIV.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL.  347 

him,  even  those  which  seemed  most  to  draw  him  to  God: 
and  even  when  they  are  taken  away  from  him  he  is  still 
tranquil.  The  higher  perfection  of  the  soul  consists  in 
being  calm  and  joyful  amid  the  privation  rather  than  the 
possession  with  the  desire  of,  and  affection  for,  these 
motives.  Though  it  is  well  to  have  a  pleasure  in  the 
possession  of  these  images  and  means  of  greater 
devotion— for  which  reason  wre  should  choose  always 
those  which  most  promote  it — yet  it  is  not  perfection  to 
be  so  attached  to  them  as  to  be  sorrowful  when  they  are 
taken  from  us.  Be  assured  of  this,  the  more  the  soul 
clings  to  images  or  sensible  motives  the  less  will  its 
devotion  and  prayers  ascend  upwards  unto  God.  Though 
it  be  true  that,  because  some  images  are  better  repre¬ 
sentations  than  others  and  more  devotional,  we  may 
prefer  the  former  to  the  latter,  still  it  must  be,  as  I  am 
saying,  for  that  reason  only,  and  there  must  be,  as  I  have 
said,  no  kind  of  attachment  or  self-seeking  in  that 
preference.  For  if  there  be  anything  of  that  kind,  that 
which  has  to  sustain  the  spirit  in  its  upward  flight  to 
God,  in  forgetfulness  of  all  created  things,  becomes 
wholly  the  prey  of  the  senses,  lost  in  the  pleasure  which 
they  furnish.  I  should  use  these  things  only  as  a  help 
to  devotion,  but  owing  to  my  imperfection,  they  serve  as 
a  hindrance,  perhaps  not  less  so  than  attachment  and 
inclination  to  any  other  thing  whatsoever. 

6.  Granting  that  some  excuse  for  this  may  be  admitted 
in  the  matter  of  images,  because  of  our  inadequate 
perception  of  that  detachment  and  poverty  of  spirit 
which  perfection  requires,  at  least  none  can  be  admitted 
in  the  case  of  that  imperfection  so  generally  practised 


348 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.] 

with  regard  to  rosaries.  You  will  scarcely  meet  with 
anyone  who  has  not  some  weakness  in  this  matter.  Men 
take  care  that  their  rosaries  are  of  a  certain  workmanship 
rather  than  another,  of  a  certain  colour  or  material,  and 
with  particular  ornaments.  One  rosary  does  not  con¬ 
tribute  more  than  another  towards  the  hearing  of  our 
prayers:  he  is  heard  who  tells  his  beads  in  the  simplicity 
and  integrity  of  his  heart,  not  thinking  of  anything  but 
how  he  may  please  God  the  most ;  and  not  valuing  one 
rosary  more  than  another,  except  only  for  the  indulgences 
attached  to  it. 

7.  Such  is  the  nature  of  our  vain  concupiscence,  it 
clings  to  everything  ;  it  is  like  the  dry  rot  con¬ 
suming  the  sound  wood,  in  good  and  bad  doing  its 
work.  What  else  is  it,  when  thou  pleasest  thy¬ 
self  with  a  curious  rosary,  seeking  one  of  a  particular 
make  rather  than  of  another,  but  to  rejoice  in  the  instru¬ 
ment  ?  Why  frequentest  thou  a  particular  image,  not 
considering  whether  it  stirs  thee  up  to  a  greater  love  of 
God,  but  whether  it  be  more  curious  or  valuable  than 
another  ?  Certainly,  if  thy  desire  and  thy  joy  were  in 
pleasing  God  only,  thou  wouldst  not  regard  anything 
of  this  kind.  It  is  very  vexatious  to  see  spiritual  persons 
so  attached  to  the  fashion  and  workmanship  of  devotional 
objects,  to  what  is  merely  motive,  given  up  to  the  curiosity 
and  empty  joy  which  they  minister.  Such  persons  are 
never  satisfied,  they  are  perpetually  changing  one  thing 
for  another  ;  spiritual  devotion  is  forgotten  amid  these 
sensible  means,  men  attaching  themselves  to  them  just  as 
they  do  to  any  worldly  ornaments  ;  and  the  issue  is  no 
slight  detriment  to  their  soul. 


[CHAP.  XXXV.  ]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


349 


CHAPTER  XXXV. 

The  subject  continued.  The  ignorance  ot  some  people  in  the 

matter  of  images. 

I  HAVE  much  to  say  of  the  ignorance  of  some  people  with 
regard  to  images ;  so  great  is  their  folly  that  they  have 
more  confidence  in  one  image  than  in  another,  influenced 
therein  solely  by  their  preference  of  the  one  over  the 
other.  This  conduct  on  their  part  implies  great  ignor¬ 
ance  of  the  ways  of  God,  of  the  service  and  honour  due 
to  Him  Who  chiefly  regards  the  faith,  and  interior  purity 
of  the  suppliant.  God  sometimes  works  more  miracles 
at  one  image  than  at  another  of  the  same  kind  though 
there  be  a  great  difference  in  the  workmanship — in  order 
that  the  devotion  of  people  may  be  excited  there  more 
than  elsewhere.  The  reason  why  God  works  miracles 
and  grants  graces  at  one  image  rather  than  at  another  is, 
that  the  strangeness  of  His  intervention  may  stir  up  the 
slumbering  devotions  and  affections  of  the  faithful.  As 
the  sight  of  the  image  serves  to  kindle  our  devotion,  and 
makes  us  persevere  in  prayer — both  being  means  to 
move  God  to  hear  and  grant  our  petitions— so  before 
that  image,  because  of  our  prayers  and  devout  affections, 
God  continues  to  work  miracles  and  to  bestow  His 
graces.  The  faith  and  devotion  with  which  the 
image  is  regarded  passing  on  to  the  saint  whom  it 
represents. 

2.  As  to  images  then,  let  us  never  dwell  upon  the 
curious  workmanship  they  may  exhibit,  so  as  to  have 
more  confidence  in  some  than  in  others  on  that  account, 


350 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  TIT.] 


for  this  would  be  great  ignorance  ;  let  us  esteem  those 
the  most  by  which  our  devotion  is  most  quickened.  Thus 
God,  for  the  greater  purification  of  this  formal  devotion, 
when  He  grants  graces,  and  works  miracles,  does  so,  in 
general,  through  images  not  very  well  made,  nor 
artistically  painted  or  adorned,  so  that  the  faithful  may 
attribute  nothing  to  the  work  of  the  artist.  And  very 
often  our  Lord  grants  his  graces  by  means  of  images  in 
remote  and  solitary  places.  In  remote  places,  that  the 
pilgrimage  to  them  may  stir  up  our  devotion,  and  make 
it  the  more  intense.  In  solitary  places,  that  we  may 
retire  from  the  noise  and  concourse  of  men  to  pray  in 
solitude,  like  our  Lord  himself.  He,  therefore,  who  goes 
on  a  pilgrimage,  will  do  well  to  do  so  when  others  do 
not,  even  at  an  unusual  time.  When  many  people  make 
a  pilgrimage,  I  would  advise  staying  at  home,  for  in 
general,  men  return  more  dissipated  than  they  were 
before.  And  many  become  pilgrims  for  recreation  more 
than  for  devotion.  If  faith  and  devotion  be  wanting,  the 
image  will  not  suffice.  What  a  perfect  living  image 
was  our  Saviour  upon  earth ;  and  yet  those  who  had  no 
faith,  though  they  were  constantly  about  Him  and  saw 
His  wonderful  works,  were  not  benefited  by  His  presence. 
This  is  the  reason — so  we  are  told  in  the  Gospel— why  He 
did  no  miracles  in  His  own  country.* 

3.  I  wish  to  mention  here  certain  supernatural  effects 
of  some  images  occasionally  on  particular  persons.  God 
attaches  a  special  influence  to  certain  images,  so  that  the 
form  of  them,  and  the  devotion  they  excite,  remain 
impressed  on  the  mind  of  the  beholder  as  if  they  were 
*  St.  Matt.  xiii.  58 ;  St.  Luke  iv.  24, 


[CHAP.  XXXV.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL.  351 

still  present  before  his  eyes.  And  again,  when  they  are 
recalled  by  the  memory,  the  same  influence  is  exerted  as 
at  the  first  time  they  were  seen,  sometimes  more  vividly, 
at  others  less  so  ;  other  images  even  of  more  perfect 
workmanship  produce  no  such  effects. 

4.  Many  persons  also  have  a  devotion  to  images  of  a 
certain  fashion  and  not  to  others.  In  some,  this  is 
nothing  more  than  mere  natural  fancy  or  taste,  just  as 
we  are  pleased  with  one  man’s  looks  more  than  with 
another’s.  They  will  have  naturally  a  liking  for  them, 
and  their  imagination  recalls  them  more  vividly,  though 
not  so  beautiful  in  themselves  as  others,  because  they 
are  naturally  attracted  to  that  particular  form  and  fashion. 
Thus,  some  persons  will  suppose  that  the  fancy  they 
have  for  a  certain  image  is  devotion,  while  in  reality 
it  is  perhaps  nothing  more  than  natural  taste  and 
liking. 

5.  At  other  times,  it  happens  that  men,  while  gazing 
at  a  particular  image  will  see  it  move,  change  colour, 
make  signs,  or  speak.  This,  and  the  supernatural  effects 
just  spoken  of,  are  many  times  real  and  good  effects,  the 
work  of  God,  either  to  increase  devotion,  or  to  support  a 
soul  in  its  weakness,  or  to  prevent  frequent  distractions ; 
but  at  other  times  they  are  not  true,  being  the  work  of 
the  evil  spirit  to  deceive  and  ruin  souls.  I  shall  there¬ 
fore  explain  the  whole  matter  in  the  next  chapter. 


652 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.] 


CHAPTER  XXXVI. 

How  the  joy  of  the  will  in  sacred  images  is  to  be  referred  to  God, 
so  that  there  shall  be  no  hindrance  in  it,  or  occasions  of 
error. 

As  images  are  very  profitable,  in  that  they  put  us  in 
mind  of  God  and  His  saints,  and  move  the  will  to 
devotion,  when  we  use  them  in  the  ordinary  way,  as  we 
ought ;  so  also  are  they  occasions  of  great  delusions  if, 
when  they  are  the  subjects  of  supernatural  effects,  we 
know  not  how  to  conduct  ourselves  as  w'e  ought  to  do  in 
our  progress  onwards  towards  God.  One  of  the  means 
by  which  the  devil  makes  an  easy  prey  of  incautious 
souls,  and  hinders  their  progress  on  the  road  of  true 
spirituality,  is  the  exhibition  of  strange  and  unusual 
things  in  connection  with  images  ;  whether  they  be  those 
material  images  which  the  Church  has  sanctioned,  or 
those  fantastic  images  represented  to  the  mind,  of  some 
particular  saints,  or  the  image  of  himself  transformed 
into  an  angel  of  light,*  in  order  to  delude  our  souls. 
The  devil,  in  his  cunning,  hides  himself  within  those 
very  means  which  are  given  us  as  a  remedy  and  support, 
that  he  may  seize  upon  us  when  we  are  least  upon  our 
guard.  Holy  souls  will  therefore  be  ever  circumspect  in 
things  that  are  good,  for  that  which  is  evil  carries  its 
own  witness  always  with  it. 

2.  I  give  therefore  one  direction,  and  that  is  sufficient, 
for  the  avoidance  of  all  those  evils  which  in  this  matter 
may  concern  the  soul,  and  for  the  purification  of  the  joy 
which  the  will  may  have  in  images  and  for  the  guidance 

*  2  Cor.  xi.  14. 


353 


[CHAP.  XXXVI.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

of  the  soul  by  means  of  them  to  God,  which  is  the  object 
of  the  Church  in  the  use  thereof.  The  evils  to  which  the 
soul  is  liable  are  either  that  it  is  hindered  by  them  in  its 
flight  upwards  unto  God,  or  that  it  uses  them  in  a  mean 
and  ignorant  way,  or  that  it  falls  into  delusions  because 
of  them,  matters  of  which  I  have  spoken  already.  Now 
the  direction  I  wish  to  give  is  this,  seeing  that  images 
are  but  motives  to  invisible  things,  that  we  should  strive, 
by  means  of  them,  to  move,  affect,  and  gladden  the  will 
only  in  the  living  spirit  which  the  image  figures.  Let 
the  faithful  soul,  therefore,  take  care  that,  while  con¬ 
templating  an  image,  the  senses  be  not  absorbed  in  it 
whether  that  image  be  material  or  in  the  imagination,  of 
beautiful  workmanship  or  of  rich  adornment,  and 
whether  the  devotion  it  excites  be  spiritual  or  sensible. 
Let  him  not  regard  these  outward  accidents,  nor  dwell 
upon  them,  but  venerate  the  image,  as  the  Church 
commands,  and  lift  up  his  mind  at  once  from  the  material 
image  to  these  which  it  represents,  with  the  sweetness 
and  joy  of  the  will  resting  on  God,  or  on  the  sain 
invoked,  devoutly,  in  mental  prayer ;  so  that  what  is  due 
to  the  living  and  the  spiritual  may  not  be  wasted  on  the 
painted  and  sensible  object.  He  who  shall  do  this  will 
never  be  deluded,  and  the  mind  and  senses  will  not  be 
hindered  from  advancing  onward  with  great  freedom 
unto  God.  The  image,  too,  which  supernaturally 
quickened  devotion,  will  do  so  more  abundantly  when 
our  heart  at  once  is  lifted  up  unto  God.  For  whenever 
He  grants  us  these  and  other  graces,  He  does  so  by 
inclining  the  affection  and  joy  of  the  will  to  that  which 
is  invisible.  It  is  His  Word,  therefore,  that  we  should  do 


354 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.]. 

the  same  ourselves,  by  annihilating  the  strength  and 
satisfaction  of  our  faculties  in  all  visible  and  sensible 
things. 


CHAPTER  XXXVII. 

Motive  goods  continued.  Oratories  and  places  of  prayer. 

I  think  I  have  now  explained  how  the  spiritual  man 
may  fall  into  as  great  imperfections,  in  the  matter  of 
images,  as  in  the  matter  of  temporal  and  bodily  goods  ; 
perhaps  greater  if  he  takes  pleasure  in  them.  I  say, 
perhaps  more  dangerous,  for  in  considering,  and  speak¬ 
ing  of,  these  images  as  holy  things,  men  make  too  sure 
of  themselves,  and  cease  to  be  afraid  of  attachment  to 
them  in  a  mere  natural  way.  Thus  they  frequently 
deceive  themselves  very  much,  thinking  themselves  most 
devout  because  they  feel  a  delight  in  these  holy  things ; 
and  after  all,  perhaps,  this  may  be  nothing  more  than 
natural  taste  and  inclination,  which  is  gratified  here  as 
it  might  have  been  by  anything  else. 

2.  The  issue  is — I  am  going  to  speak  about  oratories 
— that  some  people  are  never  satisfied  in  adding  image 
to  image  in  their  oratory,  taking  pleasure  in  the  order 
and  neatness  of  their  arrangements,  to  the  end  that  their 
oratory  may  be  well  furnished  and  beautiful  to  the  eye. 
God  is  not  their  object  in  one  arrangement  more  than  in 
another— perhaps  less  so,  for  the  delight  they  experience 
in  these  decorations  is  so  much  stolen  from  the  reality, 
as  I  have  just  now  said.*  It  is  very  true  that  all  decora- 


Ch.  xxxiv. 


355 


f  CHAP.  XXXVII.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

tion,  embellishment,  and  reverence  of  images  are  exceed¬ 
ingly  little  in  comparison  with  that  which  they  represent, 
and  therefore  those  who  treat  them  with  no  great  decency 
and  reverence  are  deserving  of  all  blame,  as  well  as 
those  who  paint  them  so  clumsily  that  they  rather 
quench  than  kindle  devotion  ;  such  persons  should  not 
be  allowed  to  paint  because  of  their  gross  unskilfulness 
But  what  has  that  to  do  with  the  attachment  and  desire 
with  which  you  cling  to  these  decorations  and  exterior 
ornaments,  seeing  that  they  so  engross  your  senses  and 
make  heavy  your  heart,  that  you  cannot  draw  near  unto 
God,  and  love  Him,  and  forget  all  these  matters  for  His 
love  ?  If  you  are  deficient  in  this  through  carefulness 
about  outward  things,  not  only  will  He  not  be  pleased 
with  you,  but  He  will  punish  you  also,  because  you  have 
sought  not  His  pleasure,  but  your  own,  in  all  things. 

3.  You  may  see  this  truth  most  clearly  in  that 
rejoicing  when  our  Lord  entered  into  Jerusalem.  The 
people  sung  hymns  of  joy  and  strewed  branches  in  the 
way,  but  He  was  weeping,*  for  the  hearts  of  some  ol 
them  were  far  from  Him  while  they  received  Him  with 
outward  show  of  honour.  ‘  This  people  honoureth  Me 
with  their  lips,  but  their  heart  is  far  from  Me.’f  We 
may  say  of  them,  that  they  did  that  in  honour  of  them¬ 
selves  rather  than  of  God.  It  is  the  same  with  many  at 
this  day,  for  in  great  solemnities  men  are  wont  to  rejoice 
more  in  the  recreation  they  furnish,  whether  in  seeing  or 
being  seen,  in  the  banquet  or  for  any  other  reason,  than 
in  rendering  true  service  unto  God. 

4.  Such  inclinations  and  intentions  are  not  pleasing 

*  St.  Matt,  xxi.  9 ;  St.  Luke  xix.  41.  t  St.  Matt.  xv.  8. 


X2 


356 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.] 

unto  God.  Much  less  do  they  please  Him  who,  when 
they  are  making  preparations  for  a  great  solemnity, 
invent  ridiculous  and  undevout  actions  to  create  laughter 
among  the  spectators,  that  men  may  be  the  more  dis¬ 
tracted;  and  who  make  such  arrangements  as  shall 
please  the  multitude  instead  of  such  as  shall  quicken 
devotion  among  them.  What  shall  I  say  of  those  who 
celebrate  great  feasts  for  ends  not  belonging  to  them  ? 
of  those  who  make  them  serve  their  private  interests  ?  of 
those  who  are  more  intent  on  their  personal  advantage 
therein  than  on  the  service  of  God  ?  This  they  know, 
and  God  also  Who  sees  it ;  and  in  whichever  way  the 
feast  is  thus  observed,  let  them  remember,  they  keep  it 
for  themselves  and  not  for  God.  What  men  do  to  please 
themselves  or  others  God  will  not  account  as  done  for 
Himself.  Yea,  many  keep  His  feasts  with  solemnity, 
and  yet  He  is  angry  with  them  as  He  was  with  the 
children  of  Israel,  for  He  slew  many  thousands  of  them, 
when  they  sung  and  danced  before  the  golden  calf, 
thinking  they  were  observing  a  feast  in  honour  of  God  :* 
or  as  He  was  with  Nadab  and  Abiu,  the  sons  of  Aaron, 
whom  He  slew  with  the  censers  in  their  hands,  because 
they  offered  strange  fire  upon  His  altar  ;f  or  as  with 
him  who  came  to  the  wedding  feast  without  the  wedding 
garment,  and  whom  He  commanded  to  be  cast,  bound 
hand  and  foot,  *  into  the  exterior  darkness/  + 

5.  This  shows  us  how  intolerable  to  God  must  be  these 
irreverences  in  those  assemblies  which  are  held  in  His 
honour.  O  Lord,  my  God,  how  many  feasts  are  kept  by 
the  children  of  men  in  which  the  devil  is  more  honoured 

*  Exod.  xxxii.  19,  28.  f  Levit.  x.  1,  2.  t  St.  Matt.  xxii.  11-13. 


357 


j  CHAP.  XXXVII. J  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

than  Thou  ?  Satan  rejoices  in  these  assemblies,  for  he 
profits  by  them  like  a  merchant  in  a  fair.  How  often 
hast  Thou  to  say  to  them  :  ‘  This  people  honoureth  Me 
with  their  lips,  but  their  heart  is  far  from  Me,’  *  because 
they  serve  Me  in  vain  ?  The  chief  ground  for  the  service 
of  God  is  that  He  is  what  He  is.  Other  and  lower  con¬ 
siderations  ought  not  to  enter  into  the  question. 

6.  I  return  to  the  subject  of  oratories.  Some  people 
adorn  them  more  for  their  own  pleasure  than  for  God’s  ; 
some  treat  them  with  so  little  respect,  that  they  make 
no  more  of  them  than  of  their  ordinary  rooms  ;  and 
some  not  so  much,  for  they  have  more  pleasure  in  what 
is  profane  than  in  what  is  divine.  But  let  me  now 
leave  this,  and  speak  of  those  who  proceed  in  a  more 
cunning  way,  that  is,  of  those  who  consider  themselves 
devout.  Many  of  these  take  such  keen  delight  in  their 
oratories  and  in  the  adorning  of  them,  that  they  waste 
in  such  occupations  all  the  time  which  they  ought  to 
have  spent  in  prayer  and  interior  recollection.  They  do 
not  see  that  by  not  disposing  themselves  for  interior 
recollection  and  tranquillity  of  mind,  they  are  as  much 
distracted  by  such  occupations  as  by  any  other  worldly 
occupation,  and  that  they  are  every  moment  troubled 
by  such  attachment,  especially  if  it  be  attempted  to 
separate  them  from  their  oratories. 


r  it>.  *v.  a 


358 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  in.] 


CHAPTER  XXXVIII. 

The  right  use  of  churches  and  oratories.  How  the  soul  is 
to  be  directed  through  them  unto  God. 

As  to  the  guidance  of  the  soul  onwards  to  God 
through  this  kind  of  goods,  I  may  observe  that  it  is 
lawful,  and  even  expedient,  for  beginners  to  feel  a 
sensible  pleasure  in  images,  oratories,  and  other  visible 
objects  of  devotion,  because  they  are  not  yet  entirely 
weaned  from  the  world,  so  as  to  be  able  to  leave  the 
latter  wholly  for  the  former.  They  are  like  children  to 
whom,  when  we  want  to  take  anything  from  them  which 
they  hold  in  one  hand,  we  give  something  to  hold  in  the 
other,  that  they  may  not  cry,  having  both  hands  empty. 
The  spiritual  man,  if  he  is  to  advance,  must  deny  himself 
in  all  those  tastes  and  desires  in  which  the  will  has 
pleasure,  for  true  spirituality  has  but  slight  connection 
with  any  of  these  things,  inasmuch  as  it  consists  solely 
in  interior  recollection  and  mental  converse  with  God. 
For  though  the  spiritual  man  makes  use  of  images  and 
oratories,  yet  it  is  only  as  it  were  in  passing,  and  the 
mind  at  once  rests  in  God,  forgetting  all  sensible  objects. 
And  though  it  is  better  to  pray  where  there  is  the 
greatest  neatness,  nevertheless  we  should  choose  that 
place  where  the  senses  are  least  likely  to  be  entertained, 
and  the  mind  most  likely  to  ascend  upwards  unto  God. 
On  this  subject  we  must  listen  to  the  answer  of  our 
Lord  to  the  woman  of  Samaria.  'She  asked  Him  which 
was  the  true  place  of  prayer,  the  mountain  or  the  temple. 
He  replied  that  true  prayer  was  not  tied  to  the  mountain 


359 


[CHAP.  XXXVin.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

but  that  those  who  prayed  in  spirit  and  in  truth  were 
they  who  were  pleasing-  to  His  Father.  ‘The  hour 
cometh,  and  now  is,  when  the  true  adorers  shall  adore 
the  Father  in  spirit  and  in  truth.  For  the  Father  also 
seeketh  such  to  adore  Him.  God  is  a  spirit,  and  they 
that  adore  Him  must  adore  Him  in  spirit  and  in 
truth.’  * 

2.  And  though  churches  and  quiet  places  are  set 
aside  and  prepared  for  prayer— a  church  ought  to  be 
used  for  no  other  purpose -nevertheless,  in  this  matter 
of  intimate  intercourse  with  God,  that  place  ought  to  be 
chosen  which  least  occupies  and  allures  the  senses.  It 
must,  therefore,  not  be  a  place  agreeable  and  delightful 
to  sense,  such  as  some  people  search  for,  lest  instead  of 
serving  to  recollection  of  mind,  it  minister  to  the 
recreation  and  satisfactions  of  sense.  For  this  end,  it  is 
well  to  make  choice  of  a  solitary  and  even  wild  spot,  so 
that  the  mind  may  ascend  firmly  and  directly  to  God, 
without  hindrance  or  detention  on  the  part  of  visible 
things.  Visible  things  sometimes,  it  is  true,  help  to 
raise  the  soul,  but  it  is  when  they  are  instantly  forgotten, 
and  the  spirit  rests  in  God.  For  this  reason  our  Saviour 
commonly  chose  to  pray  in  solitary  places,  where  there 
were  no  attractions  for  the  senses— herein  giving  us  an 
example— but  which  tended  to  lift  up  the  soul  to  God, 
such  as  mountains,  which  are  elevated  spots,  and 
generally  barren,  furnishing  no  resources  for  sensible 
recreation. 

3.  He,  therefore,  who  is  truly  spiritual  looks  only  to 
interior  recollection  in  oblivion  of  all  things,  and  for  that 


*  Sf.  John  iv,  23,  24. 


360 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.] 

end  chooses  a  place  that  is  most  free  from  all  sensible 
sweetness  and  attractions,  withdrawing  his  thoughts 
from  all  that  surrounds  him,  so  that  in  the  absence  of 
created  things,  he  may  rejoice  in  God  alone.  It  is 
wonderful  how  some  spiritual  persons  are  wholly  intent 
on  arranging  their  oratories,  and  providing  places 
for  prayer  pleasing  to  their  tastes  and  inclinations, 
and  making  little  or  nothing  of  interior  recollection, 
which  is  the  really  important  matter.  If  they  attended 
to  this,  these  arrangements  of  theirs  would  have  been 
to  them  not  pleasure  but  mere  weariness. 


CHAPTER  XXXIX. 

Continuation  of  the  same  subject. 

The  reason,  then,  why  some  spiritual  persons  are  never 
able  to  enter  into  the  true  joys  of  the  spirit,  is,  that  they 
never  wholly  cease  to  rejoice  in  outward  and  visible 
things.  Let  such  reflect  that  if  a  visible  church  and 
oratory  be  a  fitting  and  appropriate  place  for  prayer, 
and  images  motives  thereunto,  they  must  not  so  use 
them  as  to  have  all  their  sweetness  and  joy  in  them,  and 
so  forget  to  pray  in  the  living  temple,  which  is  the 
interior  recollection  of  the  soul.  St.  Paul,  to  remind  us 
of  this,  says  :  ‘  Know  you  not  that  you  are  the  temple  of 
God,  and  that  the  Spirit  of  God  dwelleth  in  you?’*  and 
our  Lord  :  ‘  Lo,  the  kingdom  of  God  is  within  you ;  ’  f 
to  the  same  effect  tend  the  words  already  cited  :  ‘They 
that  adore  Him  must  adore  Him  in  spirit  and  in  truth.’  t 
Cor.  iii.  16.  +  St.  Luke  xvii.  21. 


St.  John  iv.  24. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


361 


[CHAP.  XL.] 

God  will  make  no  account  of  your  oratories,  and  the 
places  you  have  so  well  prepared,  if  you  attend  more  to 
the  pleasure  which  they  furnish  than  you  do  to  interior 
detachment,  which  is  spiritual  poverty,  and  which  con¬ 
sists  in  denying-  yourself  in  all  that  you  may  possess. 

2.  You  must,  therefore,  if  you  would  purge  the  will 
from  joy,  and  the  vain  desire  for  it,  and  direct  that  joy 
to  God  in  your  prayers,  look  only  to  this,  that  your 
conscience  be  pure,  your  will  wholly  with  God,  and  your 
mind  earnestly  fixed  upon  Him ;  and  that  you  choose  a 
place  for  your  prayers,  the  most  solitary  and  unfrequented 
possible,  and  there  apply  the  whole  joy  and  satisfaction 
of  your  will  to  the  calling  upon  God  and  glorifying  His 
name.  As  to  the  trifling  joys  and  satisfactions  of  out¬ 
ward  things,  regard  them  not,  but  labour  to  deny  your¬ 
self  in  them.  For  if  the  soul  becomes  habituated  to  the 
sweetness  of  sensible  devotion,  it  will  never  advance  to 
the  power  of  spiritual  joy  which  is  to  be  found  in  spiritual 
detachment  by  means  of  interior  recollection. 


CHAPTER  XL. 

Of  some  evils  to  which  men  are  liable  who  indulge  in  the  sensible 
sweetness  which  results  from  objects  and  places  of  devotion. 

The  spiritual  man  is  subject  to  many  evils,  if  he  will 
walk  in  the  way  of  sensible  sweetness.  These  evils  are 
interior  as  well  as  exterior.  As  to  the  first :  he  will 
never  attain  to  that  interior  recollection  which  consists 
in  overlooking  and  forgetting  all  sensible  sweetness,  nor 
will  he  acquire  substantial  self-recollection,  and  solid 
virtue. 


362 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.] 

2.  As  to  the  second,  he  unfits  himself  for  praying  in  all 
places  alike,  and  he  can  pray  only  in  those  which  are  to 
his  taste.  Thus  he  will  frequently  neglect  his  prayers, 
because,  as  they  say,  he  can  pray  only  out  of  his  own 
book. 

3.  Besides,  this  affection  for  particular  places  is  the 
source  of  many  inconsistencies  ;  for  those  who  indulge  it 
never  continue  in  the  same  place,  nor  even  in  the  same 
state  of  life  ;  at  one  time  here,  at  another  there  ;  to-day 
in  one  cell,  to-morrow  in  another ;  they  make  arrange¬ 
ments  for  one  oratory  to-day,  and  the  next  for  another. 
Of  such  people  are  those  whose  life  is  spent  in  changing 
their  state  and  manner  of  living.  As  these  people  are 
influenced  solely  by  that  fervour  and  sensible  sweetness 
which  they  find  in  spiritual  things,  and  as  they  never  do 
violence  to  themselves  so  as  to  become  spiritually  self- 
recollected  by  the  denial  of  their  will  and  by  voluntary 
endurance  of  inconveniences  ;  so  whenever  they  see  a 
place  which  seems  to  them  better  adapted  for  devotion, 
or  a  state  of  life  better  suited  to  their  tastes  and  inclina¬ 
tions,  they  run  after  it  at  once,  and  abandon  that 
wherein  they  were  before.  Being  thus  under  the 
dominion  of  sensible  sweetness,  they  are  eager  in  the 
search  after  novelty ;  for  sensible  sweetness  is  uncertain 
and  rapidly  passes  away. 


[CHAP.  XLI.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


363 


CHAPTER  XLI. 

Of  the  three  kinds  of  devotional  places.  How  the  will  is  to 
regulate  itself  in  the  matter. 

There  are  three  kinds  of  places  by  means  of  whicn 
God  is  wont  to  move  the  will  to  devotion.  The  first  is  a 
certain  disposition  of  the  ground  and  the  situation, 
which  because  of  the  agreeable  variety  of  views,  the 
arrangement  of  the  grounds,  or  of  the  trees,  or  because 
of  its  quiet  loneliness,  which  naturally  tend  to  quicken 
devotion.  It  is  profitable  to  make  use  of  this,  provided 
the  will  ascends  upwards  to  God,  and  the  circumstances 
of  place  be  at  once  forgotten.  For  in  order  to  secure  the 
End  we  must  not  dwell  on  the  means,  nor  on  the  motives, 
longer  than  necessary.  If  we  set  about  to  refresh  our 
senses,  and  seek  for  sensible  sweetness,  what  we  shall 
find  will  be  spiritual  dryness  and  distractions;  for 
spiritual  satisfaction  and  sweetness  are  to  be  found  only 
in  interior  recollection.  Therefore,  when  we  are  in  such 
a  place,  we  should  forget  it,  and  strive  to  converse 
inwardly  with  God,  as  if  we  were  not  there.  If  we  give 
way  to  the  sweetness  of  the  spot,  searching  for  it  in  every 
way,  that  will  be,  as  I  said  before,*  a  seeking  after 
sensible  refreshment,  and  instability  of  purpose,  rather 
than  spiritual  rest.  This  was  the  way  of  the  hermits, 
and  other  holy  solitaries,  who  in  the  widest  and  most 
pleasing  deserts  chose  the  smallest  spot  that  would  do, 
making  cells  and  caves  for  themselves,  and  shutting 
themselves  up  in  them.  In  such  an  one  remained  St. 
Benedict  for  three  years,  and  another  bound  himself  with 

*  Cb.  xl.  §  3. 


364 


THE  ASCENT 


[book  m. 


a  rope,  that  he  might  not  step  beyond  its  length. 
Many  others  also,  too  numerous  to  mention,  have  im¬ 
posed  similar  restraints  upon  themselves.  Those  holy 
men  well  knew  that  if  they  did  not  mortify  the  desire 
and  longing  for  spiritual  sweetness  they  never  would  be 
able  to  attain  to  it,  and  become  spiritual  themselves. 

2.  The  second  kind  is  something  special,  for  there  are 
some  places,  no  matter  whether  desert  or  not,  where  God 
is  wont  to  bestow  spiritual  graces  of  exceeding  sweet¬ 
ness  on  some  persons  in  particular,  so  that  in  general 
the  hearts  of  those  who  have  received  such  graces  are 
attracted  to  that  place,  and  they  feel  at  times  a  great 
and  anxious  desire  to  return ;  though  when  they  do, 
they  do  not  find  what  they  found  there  before ;  for  it  is 
not  in  their  power.  God  bestows  these  graces  when, 
how,  and  where  He  wills  ;  He  is  not  tied  to  time  or 
place,  neither  is  He  subject  to  any  man’s  will. 

3.  Nevertheless  it  is  well  to  return  to  such  a  place, 
provided  all  attachment  to  it  be  wanting,  and  to  pray  there 
sometimes.  There  are  three  reasons  for  this.  First,  it 
appears  that  God,  though  not  bound  to  place,  wills  that 
He  should  be  glorified  there  by  that  soul  to  which  He 
gave  that  grace.  The  second,  by  going  there  the  soul  is 
the  more  reminded  of  its  duty  of  thanksgiving  for  the 
graces  there  received.  The  third  is,  that  remembrance 
of  past  graces  quickens  devotion.  It  is  for  these  reasons 
that  men  ought  to  revisit  such  places,  and  not  because 
they  think  that  God  has  obliged  Himself  to  bestow  His 
graces  there  in  such  a  way  as  not  to  bestow  them  else¬ 
where  ;  for  in  the  eyes  of  God  the  human  soul  is  a  more 
becoming  place  than  any  earthly  spot. 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


3G5 


[chap,  xli.] 

4.  We  read  in  the  Holy  Scriptures,  that  Abraham 
built  an  altar  in  the  place  where  God  appeared  to  him, 
and  there  called  upon  His  name,  and  that  he  visited  the 
place  again  on  his  return  from  Egypt,  and  called  upon 
God  again  there  at  ‘the  altar  which  he  had  made 
before.’*  Jacob  also  consecrated  the  place  where  he  saw 
‘  the  Lord  leaning  upon  the  ladder ;  ’  for  he  ‘  took  the 
stone  which  he  had  laid  under  his  head,  and  set  it  up 
for  a  title,  pouring  oil  upon  the  top  of  it.’f  Agar,  too, 
in  reverence,  gave  a  name  to  the  place  where  the  Angel 
appeared  to  her,  saying,  ‘Verily  here  have  I  seen  the 
hinder  parts  of  Him  that  seeth  me.’+ 

5.  The  third  kind  are  certain  special  places  which  God 
has  chosen  that  men  may  there  call  upon  Him  and  serve 
Him.  Such  a  place  was  Mount  Sinai  where  He  gave 
His  law  unto  Moses. §  Such  also  was  that  place  which 
He  showed  unto  Abraham,  where  the  patriarch  was  to 
sacrifice  his  son.||  And  such  too  was  Mount  Horeb, 
whither  He  commanded  our  father  Elias  to  go,  and 
where  He  was  to  show  Himself  unto  him.lf  Of  this 
kind  also  is  Mount  Garganus  which  St.  Michael, 
appearing  there  to  the  bishop  of  Siponto,  marked  out 
for  his  own  service,  saying  :  ‘  I  am  the  guardian  of  this 
place,  let  an  oratory  here  be  dedicated  to  God  in  honour 
of  the  angels.’**  The  most  glorious  Virgin  by  a 
miraculous  sign — snow  in  summer — chose  a  site  in  Rome 
for  a  church  in  her  honour,  which  Joannes  Patricius 
was  to  build. ff  God  knoweth  why  He  chose  these 

*  Genes,  xii.  8  ;  xiii.  4.  +  lb.  xxviii.  13,  18.  £  Genes,  xvi.  13. 

§  Exod.  xxiv.  12.  ||  Genes,  xxii.  2.  ^[3  Kings  xix.  S. 

**  Brev.  Rom.  in  Fest.  App.  S.  Mich.  lect.  6. 
ft  lb,  in  Fest  S.  Mari*  ad  Nives. 


366 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.] 

places  for  Himself.  All  we  need  know  is  that  all  is  for 
our  good,  and  that  He  will  hear  our  prayers  there,  and 
wherever  else  we  pray  in  perfect  faith.  Though  there  is 
far  greater  reason  why  we  should  be  heard  in  these 
places,  dedicated  to  His  service,  because  the  Church  has 
consecrated  them  for  that  special  end. 


CHAPTER  XLII. 

Of  other  motives  to  prayer  adopted  by  many;  namely,  many 

ceremonies. 

The  useless  joys  and  the  imperfection  of  attachment, 
in  which  many  persons  indulge  in  the  things  I  am 
speaking  of,  are  perhaps  in  some  degree  excusable, 
because  they  are  indulged  in  somewhat  innocently.  But 
the  great  reliance  which  some  have  on  a  variety  of 
ceremonies  invented  by  persons  of  unenlightened  minds, 
deficient  in  the  simplicity  of  faith,  is  not  to  be  borne, 
putting  aside  for  the  present,  those  ceremonies  which 
comprise  certain  strange  names  or  words  signifying 
nothing,  and  other  matters,  not  of  a  sacred  character, 
which  an  ignorant,  rude,  and  suspicious  people  inter¬ 
mingle  with  their  prayers.  These  are  clearly  evil  and  a 
sin ;  in  many  of  them  is  a  secret  compact  with  Satan, 
whereby  men  provoke  God  to  anger  and  not  to  mercy. 
I  do  not  mean  to  speak  of  these,  but  only  of  those 
ceremonies,  which  being  not  of  this  suspicious  class, 
many  persons  nowadays  adopt  in  their  prayers  through 
an  indiscreet  devotion,  and  attribute  such  efficacy,  to 
them,  and  have  such  faith  in  them,  that  they  imagine 


367 


[CHAP.  XLII.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

their  prayers  and  devotions  without  these  forms  are  use¬ 
less,  and  unheard  by  God,  if  they  fail  in  any  one  of  these 
singularities,  or  overstep  these  arbitrary  limitations. 
They  have  much  more  confidence  in  these  forms  than 
they  have  in  earnest  prayer  ;  which  is  a  great  dishonour 
and  insult  offered  unto  God.  For  instance  a  Mass  must 
be  said  with  so  many  candles,  neither  more  nor  fewer  ;  * 
by  such  a  priest,  at  such  an  hour,  neither  earlier  nor 
later ;  on  such  a  day,  neither  before  nor  after,  the  prayers 
must  be  offered  up,  or  visits  made  to  a  church,  so  often, 
in  such  a  way,  at  such  a  time,  with  such  ceremonies  or 
gestures,  neither  earlier  nor  later,  nor  in  any  other  way, 
and  the  person  who  is  to  undertake  this  must  have  such 
and  such  qualities.  They  believe  that  if  any  one  of 
these  ceremonies  be  neglected  all  is  to  no  purpose. 
There  are  a  thousand  other  absurdities  of  the  same  kind. 

2.  What  is  still  worse,  and  not  to  be  borne,  is,  that 
some  people  will  have  it  that  they  have  felt  the  effects 
of  this,  or  that  they  have  obtained  what  they  asked  for, 
or  that  they  know  they  shall  obtain  it  when  all  these 
ceremonious  practices  have  been  duly  observed.  This  is 
nothing  less  than  to  tempt  God,  and  grievously 
provoke  Him  to  wrath,  so  much  so  that  occasionally  the 
evil  spirit  is  permitted  to  deceive  such  people,  and  to 
make  them  feel  or  see  things  utterly  at  variance  with  the 
welfare  of  their  soul.  They  bring  this  upon  themselves 
by  the  self-love  which  they  manifest  in  their  prayers, 
and  by  their  desire  to  fulfil  their  own  will  rather  than 
the  will  of  God.  Such  persons,  because  they  do  not 


Concil  Trident  Sess.  xxii.  part  c.  9,  Decret  de  Observandis,  Slc. 


THE  ASCENT 


368 


[book  m.j 


place  their  whole  trust  in  God,  will  never  come  to  any 
good. 


CHAPTER  XLIII. 

How  the  joy  and  strength  of  tne  will  is  to  be  directed  to  God  in 

these  devotions. 

Let  such  people  then  know  that  the  more  they  rely 
on  their  ceremonies  the  less  is  their  confidence  in  God, 
and  that  they  will  never  obtain  their  desires.  There  are 
some  people  who  labour  more  for  their  own  ends  than  for 
the  glory  of  God.  Though  they  know  that  God  will 
grant  their  prayer  if  it  be  for  His  service,  and  that  He 
will  not,  if  it  be  not ;  still,  because  of  their  self-love  and 
the  empty  joy  which  they  have  in  it,  they  will  multiply 
their  prayers  beyond  measure.  Now  if  they  were  to 
attend  to  something  else  of  more  importance,  they  would 
do  better :  namely,  if  they  set  about  the  purification  of 
their  own  conscience,  and  applied  themselves  to  the 
affair  of  their  own  salvation,  omitting  all  prayers  which 
have  not  this  for  their  end. 

2.  If  they  do  this,  they  will  obtain  that  which  concerns 
them  most,  and  they  will  obtain  beside  all  else,  though 
they  did  not  pray  for  it,  in  a  better  and  readier  way 
than  if  they  had  directed  all  their  energies  to  it.  We 
have  for  this  the  promise  of  our  Lord  Himself,  Who 
tells  us,  ‘  seek  ye,  therefore,  first  the  kingdom  of  God 
and  His  justice,  and  all  these  things  shall  be  added 
unto  you.’*  Such  seeking  is  most  pleasing  unto  God 

*  S.  Matt  vi.  33. 


[chap.  xliii.J 


OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


369 


and  there  is  no  better  way  to  obtain  the  desires  of  our 
heart  than  to  pray  with  all  our  might  for  that  which  is 
most  pleasing  unto  Him  ;  for  then  He  will  grant  us,  not 
only  what  we  pray  for,  namely,  our  eternal  salvation, 
but  all  that  He  sees  to  be  expedient  and  profitable  for  us, 
though  we  ask  it  not,  according  to  the  words  of  the 
Psalmist,  ‘  The  Lord  is  nigh  unto  all  them  that  call  upon 
Him,  to  all  that  call  upon  Him  in  truth.’  *  They  call 
upon  Him  in  truth  who  pray  for  that  which  is  most 
true,  namely,  their  salvation,  as  the  Psalmist  adds,  in 
the  same  place,  ‘  He  will  do  the  will  of  them  that  fear 
Him,  and  He  will  hear  their  prayer  and  save  them. 
The  Lord  keepeth  all  them  that  love  Him.’  To  be  ‘nigh’ 
unto  men  is  to  satisfy  them,  and  to  give  them  what  never 
entered  even  into  their  thoughts  to  ask  for. 

3.  We  have  an  illustration  of  this  in  the  history  of 
Solomon.  He  asked  of  God  wisdom  to  govern  the 
people— a  prayer  that  was  acceptable  unto  Him— and 
the  answer  of  God  was :  ‘  Because  this  choice  hath 
pleased  thy  heart,  and  thou  hast  not  asked  riches  and 
wealth  and  glory,  nor  the  lives  of  them  that  hate  thee, 
nor  many  days  of  life;  but  hast  asked  wisdom  and 
knowledge  to  be  able  to  judge  My  people,  over  which  I 
have  made  thee  king :  wisdom  and  knowledge  are 
granted  to  thee ;  and  I  will  give  thee  riches  and  wealth 
and  glory,  so  that  none  of  the  kings  before  thee,  nor 
after  thee,  shall  be  like  thee.’f  God  kept  His  promise, 
and  made  his  enemies  live  in  peace,  and  pay  him  tribute. 
We  have  the  same  lesson  also  in  the  book  of  Genesis, 
when  God  promised  Abraham  in  answer  to  his  prayer  to 
*  Ps.  cxliv.  18,  19,  20.  t  2  Paral.  i.  ii,  12. 

Y 


370 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.] 

multiply  the  posterity  of  his  lawful  son  as  the  stars  of 
heaven,  He  said :  ‘  I  will  make  the  son  also  of  the 
bondwoman  a  great  nation,  because  he  is  thy  seed.’* 

4.  The  powers  of  the  will,  therefore,  and  the  joy  it 
has  in  prayers,  are  to  be  thus  referred  to  God  :  without 
leaning  upon  ceremonies  and  private  observances  which 
the  Catholic  Church  neither  adopts  nor  sanctions  ;  we 
must  resign  to  the  priest  the  celebration  of  Mass,  he 
stands  in  her  place,  and  has  received  from  her  the  order 
of  its  celebration.  Men  must  not  seek  out  new  inven¬ 
tions,  as  if  they  knew  more  than  the  Holy  Ghost  and  the 
Church.  If  they  are  not  heard  when  they  pray  in 
simplicity,  let  them  be  sure  of  this — God  will  not  hear 
them  for  their  own  inventions,  however  numerous  they 
may  be. 

5.  As  to  vocal  prayer  and  other  devotions,  let  no 
man  rely  on  ceremonies  and  forms  of  prayer  other  than 
those  which  Christ  and  His  Church  have  taught  us.  It 
is  quite  clear  that,  when  His  disciples  said  unto  Him, 
‘  Teach  us  to  pray,’  f  He  told  them  all  they  were  to  do 
in  order  to  be  heard  of  the  eternal  Father.  He  knew 
His  will.  He  then  taught  them  only  the  seven  petitions 
of  the  Pater  Noster ,  which  include  all  our  wants, 
spiritual  and  temporal.  He  did  not  teach  them  many, 
and  other  forms  of  words  and  ceremonies.  He  had 
before  told  them  not  to  use  many  words  when  they 
prayed,  saying,  ‘When  you  are  praying,  speak  not 
much  .  .  .  for  your  Father  knoweth  what  is  needful  for 
you.’+  Only  He  charged  them  with  great  earnestness  to 
persevere  in  prayer— that  is,  the  Pater  Noster—  saying, 

*  Genes,  xxi.  13.  t  S.  Luke  xi.  1.  X  S.  Matt.  vi.  7,  S. 


371 


[CHAP.  XLIII.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

‘that  we  ought  always  to  pray,  and  not  to  faint.’*  He 
did  not  teach  us  a  variety  of  prayers,  but  to  repeat  often, 
with  care  and  fervour,  these  petitions— for  they  contain 
the  whole  will  of  God  and  all  our  wants  also.  Thus  He 
Himself,  when  He  turned  to  the  eternal  Father,  made 
His  prayer  the  three  times  in  the  self-same  words  of  the 
Pater  Noster,  saying,  as  the  Evangelists  tell  us,  ‘  My 
Father,  if  it  be  possible,  let  this  chalice  pass  from  Me ; 
nevertheless,  not  as  I  will,  but  as  Thou  wiltj'f — 
that  is,  Father,  if  I  must  drink  this  chalice,  Thy  will 
be  done. 

6.  The  rites  and  ceremonies  which  He  taught  us  to 
observe  in  our  prayers  are  reduced  to  one  of  two  ;  either 
to  retire  into  our  chamber,  where,  away  from  the  tumult 
and  presence  of  men,  we  may  pray  with  most  pure  and 
perfect  heart — ‘  When  thou  shalt  pray,  enter  into  thy 
chamber,  and  having  shut  the  door,  pray  to  thy  Father 
in  secret ;’Z  or  to  withdraw  into  the  lonely  wilderness, 
as  He  did,  in  the  better  and  more  tranquil  hours  of 
the  night. 

7.  There  is  thus  no  necessity  for  determined  seasons, 
nor  for  appointed  days,  nor  for  strange  methods, 
nor  for  words  of  double  meanings,  nor  for  other  prayers 
than  those  which  the  Church  employs,  and  in  the  sense  in 
which  she  employs  them ;  for  all  prayers  are  compre¬ 
hended  in  the  Pater  Noster.  I  am  not,  by  this,  condemn¬ 
ing,  but  rather  approving,  those  fixed  days  which  some 
persons  occasionally  set  apart  for  their  devotions,  such  as 
novenas,  and  the  like ;  what  I  condemn  is  the  reliance 
which  men  have  on  the  ceremonies  and  self-devised 

*  St.  Luke  xviil  I.  t  St.  Matth.  xxvi.  39.  ♦  St.  Matth.  vi.  6. 


Y2 


372 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  III.] 

observances  with  which  they  keep  them.  .  This  is  what 
Judith  also  did  when  she  rebuked  the  people  of  Bethulia, 
because  they  had  fixed  a  time  within  which  God  was  to 
have  mercy  upon  them.  ‘  Who  are  ye/  said  the  pro¬ 
phetess,  ‘  that  tempt  the  Lord  ?  This  is  not  a  word  that 
may  draw  down  mercy,  but  rather  that  may  stir  up 
wrath  and  enkindle  indignation.'  * 


CHAPTER  XLIV. 

Of  the  second  kind  of  distinct  goods  in  which  the  will  vainly 

rejoices. 

The  second  kind  of  distinct  sweet  goods  in  which  the 
will  vainly  rejoices,  is  that  which  provokes  or  persuades 
us  to  serve  God.  This  I  have  called  provocative.  In 
this  class  of  goods  are  preachers  who  may  be  considered 
in  two  points  of  view  :  one,  concerning  themselves,  the 
other,  those  who  hear  them.  Both  in  preaching  and  in 
hearing,  all  require  to  be  reminded  that  the  joy  of  the 
will  must  be  directed  unto  God. 

2.  As  to  the  preacher,  he  must  bear  in  mind — if  he  is  to 
profit  his  hearers,  and  not  to  be  puffed  up  with  empty 
joy  and  presumption — that  his  function  is  more  spiritual 
than  vocal :  for  though  it  depends  on  audible  words,  its 
power  and  efficacy  is  not  in  the  words,  but  in  the  spirit 
which  utters  them.  However  high  the  doctrine  he 
preaches,  however  adorned  his  eloquence  and  sublime 
his  style,  the  fruits  of  his  sermons  will  in  general  be  no 
better  than  his  own  spirit.  For  though  it  be  true  that 


Judith  viii.  II,  12. 


[CHAP.  XLIV.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


373 


the  word  of  God  is  effectual  in  itself,  as  it  is  written, 
‘  He  will  give  to  His  voice  the  voice  of  power,’*  yet  fire, 
which  has  the  power  of  burning,  will  not  burn  without 


fuel. 


3.  Pre;  ching  depends  for  its  effects  on  two  proper 
conditions  :  one  on  the  part  of  the  preacher,  the  other 
on  the  part  of  the  hearer  :  but  in  general  the  fruitfulness 
of  preaching  is  according  to  the  dispositions  of  the 
preacher.  Hence  the  proverb,  Such  the  master,  such 
the  disciple.  When  the  seven  sons  of  Sceva,  a  chief 
priest  of  the  Jews,  attempted  to  cast  out  devils  like  St. 
Paul,  the  evil  spirit  turned  upon  them  in  a  fury,  saying, 
‘  Jesus  I  know,  and  Paul  I  know,  but  who  are  you  ?f  and 
drove  them  out  of  the  house  naked  and  wounded.  This 
befel  them  because  of  their  improper  dispositions,  and 
not  because  Christ  would  not  that  they  should  not  cast 
out  devils  ;  for  when  the  apostles  saw  one  who  was  not 
a  disciple  casting  out  devils  in  the  name  of  Christ,  and 
forbade  him,  He  rebuked  them,  saying,  ‘  Do  not  forbid 
him  :  for  there  is  no  man  that  doth  a  miracle  in  My 
name,  and  can  soon  speak  ill  of  Me.’J  But  He  is  angry 
with  those  who  teach  His  law  and  keep  it  not,  and  who 
not  being  spiritual  themselves,  preach  spirituality  to 
others.  ‘  Thou,  therefore,’  saith  He  by  the  mouth  of  the 
Apostle,  ‘  that  teachest  another,  teachest  not  thyself ; 
thou  that  teachest  that  men  should  not  steal,  stealest.’§ 
and  by  the  mouth  of  the  Psalmist  the  Holy  Ghost,  ‘  To 
the  sinner  God  hath  said,  Why  dost  thou  declare  My 
justice,  and  take  My  covenant  in  thy  mouth,  seeing  thou 


*  Ps.  lxvii.  34. 

J  St.  Mark  ix.  38. 


t  Acts  xix.  15. 
§  Rom.  ii.  21. 


374 


THE  ASCENT 


[BOOK  HI.] 

hast  hated  discipline  and  cast  My  words  behind  thee  r’* 
Here  we  learn  that  God  will  not  give  to  them  the  spirit 
that  will  bring  forth  good  tiuit. 

4.  It  is  generally  observed,  so  far  as  we  can  judge,  that 
the  better  the  life  of  the  preacher,  the  greater  the  fruit, 
though  his  style  may  be  homely,  his  eloquence  scanty, 
and  his  teaching  common,  for  warmth  proceeds  from  the 
living  spirit  within.  Another  kind  of  preacher  will 
produce  scarcely  any  fruit  at  all,  notwithstanding  his 
fine  style  and  his  learning.  For  though  it  is  true  that  a 
good  style  and  action,  profound  learning,  and  correct 
expression  have  a  greater  effect  when  they  accompany 
true  spirituality ;  still  when  that  is  wanting,  though  the 
senses  be  charmed,  and  the  understanding  delighted, 
but  little  or  no  substantial  warmth  reaches  to  the  will. 
In  general  the  will  remains  dull,  and  weak  as  before  in 
good  works,  though  marvellous  things  have  been 
marvellously  told  it,  but  which  serve  only  to  please  the 
ear,  like  a  concert  of  music  or  the  sound  of  bells.  But 
the  spirit  does  not  go  beyond  its  limits,  and  the  voice 
has  no  power  to  raise  the  dead  from  the  grave.  It 
matters  very  little  if  the  music  I  hear  is  better  than 
another,  if  it  does  not  move  me  more  than  the  other  to 
act  ?  Though  men  may  be  wonderful  preachers,  yet 
their  sermons  are  soon  forgotten,  if  they  kindled  no  fire 
in  the  will. 

5.  This  sensible  delectation  in  sermons  is  not  only 
almost  fruitless,  but  also  keeps  back  the  hearer  from 
true  spirituality ;  for  he  goes  no  deeper  into  the  matter 
than  the  outward  circumstances  of  the  sermon,  and 

*  I*s.  xlix.  16,  17. 


375 


[CHAP.  XLIV.]  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 

praises  the  preacher  for  this  and  that  peculiarity, 
running  after  him  for  such  reasons  rather  than  for  any 
edification  he  derives  from  him.  St.  Paul  sets  this 
before  us  very  clearly,  saying :  ‘  And  I,  brethren,  when 
I  came  to  you,  came  not  in  loftiness  of  speech  or  of 
wisdom,  declaring  unto  you  the  testimony  of  Christ 
.  .  .  my  speech  and  my  preaching  was  not  in  the  per¬ 
suasive  words  of  human  wisdom,  but  in  showing  of  the 
Spirit  and  of  power.’* 

6.  It  was  not  the  intention  of  the  Apostle,  neither  is  it 
mine,  to  find  fault  with  a  good  style,  correct  diction,  and 
eloquence.  These  things  are  valuable  to  a  preacher,  as 
they  are  in  all  kinds  of  affairs  :  for  as  a  noble  expression 
elevates  and  restores  what  is  low  and  mean,  so,  on  the 
other  hand,  a  poor  style  debases  and  ruins  even  that 
which  is  noble. 

*  x  Cor.  ii.  i,  4. 


THE  END 


377 


INDEX  OF  PLACES  IN  HOLY  SCRIPTURE. 


ASCENT  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL 


xi. 

xii. 

xiii. 
xv. 


xvi. 

xvii. 
xxi. 


xxvii. 

xxviii, 

xxxi. 

xxxv. 

xlvi. 

xlix. 


lii. 


iv. 


xiv. 

xvi. 

xviii, 


GENESIS. 

7,  8.  Let  us  go  down,  5. 

8.  Called  upon  His  name, 

365- 

4.  Altar  he  had  made,  365. 

7.  To  give  thee  this  land, 

157. 

8.  Whereby  may  I  know, 

I57- 

18.  To  thy  seed  will  I  give 
this  land,  157. 

13.  Verily,  here  I  have 
seen,  365. 

I.  Walk  before  Me  and 
be  perfect,  233. 

10.  Cast  out  this  handmaid, 


19- 

13.  The  son  of  the  bond- 
woman,  370. 

2.  On  one  of  the  moun¬ 
tains,  365. 

22.  The  voice,  the  voice  of 
Jacob,  222. 

18.  Set  it  up  for  a  title, 
365. 

33.  Idols  of  Laban,  346. 

2.  Cast  away  the  strange 

gods,  25. 

3.  Fear  not,  go  down,  157. 


I.  Poured  out  as  water,  43. 


EXODUS. 

4.  Moses  at  the  bush,  96. 
14.  Aaron  is  thy  brother, 
188. 

20.  A  dark  cloud,  70. 

4.  Bread  from  heaven,  22. 
33.  Book  in  the  ark,  27. 

21.  Provide.  .  able  men, 

191,  292. 


xix.  9.  In  the  darkness  of  a 
cloud,  100. 

xxiii.  8.  Neither  shalt  thou  take 
bribes,  292. 

xxiv.  12.  I  will  give  thee  tables 
of  stone,  365. 

xxvii.  8.  Not  solid,  but  empty 
and  hollow,  26. 

xxxii.  19.  Saw  the  calf  and  the 
dances,  356. 

xxxiii.  20.  Not  see  Me  and  live, 
96,  268. 

—  22.  Set  thee  in  a  hole  of 

the  rock,  199. 

xxxiv.  2,  3.  Thou  shalt  stand 

with  me,  24. 

—  6.  Lord,  God,  merciful  and 

gracious,  206. 

xl.  33.  Cloud  covered  the 

tabernacle,  135. 


LEVITICUS. 

x.  1.  Nadab  and  Abiu,  26, 

356. 


NUMBERS. 

xi.  4,  Who  will  give  us  flesh 

to  eat  ?  176. 

—  33.  If  there  be  among  you 

a  prophet,  138. 

xii.  6.  If  there  be  a  prophet 

among  you,  138. 
xvii.  10.  Rod  of  Aaron,  27. 
xxii.  7.  The  price  of  divination, 
295- 

—  22.  Arise,  and  go  with  him, 

176,  335- . 

—  32.  Thy  way  is  perverse, 

176, 


378 


INDEX  OF  PLACES 


DEUTERONOMIUM. 
You  heard  the  voic 
His  words,  137. 
You  saw  no  similitr 
137- 

Love  God  with 
whole  heart,  281. 
Book  in  the  ark,  27 
The  beloved  grew 

291. 

Grew  fat  and  gr 

292. 

Departed  from  G 
294. 

JOSUE. 

Destruction  of  J eric 

51-  .  . 

Took  of  their  victu 
182. 

JUDGES. 

That  their  gods  ma} 
your  ruin,  50. 

Go  down  into 
camp,  188. 

The  pitchers  ofGede 
101. 

His  soul  fainted,  31 
Plucked  forth  his  e; 
306. 

Michas  and  his  id 
346. 

Deliver  them  into  ) 
hands,  159. 

I.  KINGS. 

They  that  despise 
169. 

Thy  servant  hear 

23S.  252. 

Did  not  chastise  th 
169. 

Dagon  before  the  ; 
26. 

They  have  not  rejei 
thee,  174. 

If  I  have  taken  a  3 
292. 

Bring  me  the  epl 
187. 

Magicians  and  soi 
sayers,  337. 


• 

IV. 

12. 

— 

is- 

vi. 

5- 

xxii. 

26. 

xxxii. 

IS¬ 

— 

IS- 

— 

IS- 

vi. 

21. 

ix. 

14. 

ii. 

3- 

vii. 

9- 

— 

16. 

xvi. 

16 

— 

21. 

xviii. 

24. 

*x. 

28. 

ii. 

30- 

iii. 

10. 

— 

13- 

V. 

4- 

viii. 

7- 

xii. 

3- 

xxiii. 

9- 

xxviii. 

3- 

xxi. 


iii. 

iv. 

viii. 

xi. 


xix. 


xxi. 

xxii. 


vi. 


xx. 


vi. 


xiv. 


viii. 


xi. 


iv. 

vi. 


12.  Why  hast  thou  dis¬ 
turbed  my  rest,  175. 

III.  KINGS. 

11.  Hast  not  asked  lon^ 

life,  322. 

29.  Wisdom  and  under¬ 
standing,  331. 

12.  Dwell  in  a  cloud,  100. 
4.  To  follow  strange  gods, 

37- 

38.  Build  thee  up  a  faithful 
house,  170. 

8.  Unto theMount ofGod, 
Horeb,  365. 

13.  Elias  covered  his  face, 

96,  199. 

29.  Achab  humbled  him¬ 
self,  167. 

11.  Push  Syria,  135. 

22.  Thou  shah  deceive 
him,  180. 

IV.  KINGS. 

26.  My  heart  present  with 
thee,  213. 

11.  Why  not  tell  me  ?  213. 

12.  Eliseus  the  prophet 

tells,  213. 

II.  PARALIP. 

11.  But  hast  asked  wisdom, 

369- 

12.  We  turn  our  eyes  t«v 

Thee,  175. 

TOBIAS. 

18.  When  thou  shalt  take 
her,  11. 

13  Iniquity  will  bring  it  to 
destruction,  178. 

JUDITH. 

11.  Who  are  ye  that  tempt 

the  Lord,  372. 

12.  They  shall  be  given  to 

destruction,  178. 

JOB. 

Comforters  of  Job,  5. 
Not  seasoned  with  salt 
122. 


IN  HOLY  SCRIPTURE. 


x*.  22.  Every  sorrow  shall  fall 

upon  him,  30. 

xxxi.  27.  If  my  heart  in  secret 
rejoiced,  327. 

xxxviii.  j.  Answered  Job  out  of  a 
whirlwind,  joo. 

—  16.  He  sleepeth  under  the 

shadow,  329. 

PSALMS. 

ii.  9.  Rule  them  with  a  rod 

of  iron,  165. 

vi.  4.  My  soul  is  troubled,  33. 
ix.  17.  Heard  the  desire  of  the 
poor,  166. 

xvii.  10.  Darkness  under  his  feet, 

99- 

xviii.  3.  Day  to  day  uttereth 
speech,  70. 

—  10.  Sweeter  than  honey, 

206. 

xxxvii.  5.  A  heavy  burden  upon 
me,  33. 

xxxviii.  7.  Man  passeth  as  an 
image,  257. 

xxxix.  6.  No  one  like  to  Thee, 
205. 

—  13.  My  iniquities  have  over¬ 

taken  me,  33. 

xlv.  11.  Be  still.  .  I  am  God, 

133.  340. 

xlviii.  17.  When  a  man  is  made 
rich,  287,  296. 

xlix.  16.  Hast  hated  discipline, 

,  ..  374- 

lvn.  5.  Like  the  deaf  asp,  308. 

—  9.  Fire  hath  fallen  upon 

them,  34. 

—  10.  Before  your  thorns  could 

know,  36. 

Iviii.  10.  I  will  keep  my  strength 
to  thee,  43,  282. 

—  15.  Hunger  like  dogs,  28. 

Ixi.  II.  If  riches  abound,  286, 

297. 

lxii.  3.  To  see  Thy  power  and 
glory.  341. 

Ixiii.  8.  God  shall  be  exalted, 
340. 

lxvii.  34.  The  voice  of  power, 
233,  373. 

Ixxi.  8.  He  shall  rule  from  sea 
to  sea.  161. 


379 

—  12.  He  shall  deliver  the 

poor,  1 61. 

lxxii.  7.  Passed  into  the  affec¬ 
tions  of  the  heart,  294. 

—  8.  Spoken  wickedness, 

257- 

—  22.  I am-brought  to  nothing, 

.  •  92* 

Ixxvi.  14.  Thy  way  in  the  holy 
_  place,  95. 

Ixxvn.  30.  Their  meat  in  their 

mouth,  23,  176. 

lxxxv.  8.  None  like  unto  Thee, 

,  ..  95,  267. 

lxxxvn.  16.  In  labours  from  my 
youth,  15. 

ci.  8.  The  lonely  sparrow, 

128. 

—  27.  Grow  old  as  a  garment, 

302. 

cxiii.  8.  Let  them  that  make 
idols,  16. 

cxvii.  12.  Like  fire  among  thorns, 
32 

cxvni.  61.  The  cords  of  my  sins, 
32. 

cxxxvii.  6.  The  high  He  knoweth 
afar  off,  95. 

cxxxviii.  11.  Night  shall  be  my  light, 
70,  266. 

cxliv.  18.  The  Lord  is  nigh,  369. 

—  19.  He  will  do  the  will, 

369- 

cxlvii.  17.  Crystals  like  morsels, 
149- 


PROVERBS. 

viii.  4.  O  men,  to  you  I  cry, 
20. 

x.  24.  Their  desire  shall  be 
given,  166. 

xxiii.  31.  Look  not  upon  the  wine, 

3?7- 

xxiv.  16.  A  just  man  shall  fall 
seven  times,  47. 

xxvii.  19.  Faces  shine  in  the  water 
211. 

xxx.  15.  The  horse-leech  hath 

two  daughters,  44. 

xxici.  30,  Beauty  is  vain,  17 

301. 


380 


INDEX  OF  PLACES 


ECCLESIASTES. 

1. 

14. 

All  is  vanity,  287. 

il. 

2. 

Laughter  I  counted  an 
error,  289,  302. 

— 

10. 

Whatever  my  eyes 
desired,  37. 

_ 

26. 

Fruitless  solicitude,  287. 

iii. 

12. 

To  do  well  in  this  life, 
258. 

iv. 

10. 

Woe  to  him  that  is  alone, 

189. 

v. 

I. 

Let  thy  words  be  few, 

170. 

— 

9- 

He  that  loveth  riches, 
287. 

12. 

Riches  kept  to  the  hurt 
of  the  owner,  287, 
296. 

vii. 

1. 

To  seek  things  above 
him,  219. 

3- 

Better  to  go  into  the 
house  of  mourning, 
289. 

— 

4- 

Anger  better  than  laugh¬ 
ter,  289. 

— 

5- 

The  heart  of  the  wise, 
289. 

viii. 

4 

Full  of  power,  233. 

x. 

I. 

Dying  flies  spoil,  etc., 
327- 

CANTICLE. 

ii. 

4- 

Into  the  cellar  of  wine, 
109. 

iii. 

5- 

Daughters  of  J erusalem, 
238. 

iv. 

12. 

A  garden  enclosed, 252. 

V. 

2. 

I  sleep,  129. 

vi. 

4 

Turn  away  Thine  eyes, 
225. 

— 

II. 

I  knew  not,  128. 

viii. 

6. 

Put  me  as  a  seal,  271, 
274- 

WISDOM. 

• 

5- 

Thoughts  without  un¬ 
derstanding,  257,  309. 

iv. 

12. 

The  bewitching  of 
vanity,  29 1. 

vii. 

17- 

The  true  knowledge  of 
things,  210. 

— ■ 

21. 

The  nature  of  living 
creatures,  210,  247. 

— 

22. 

Which  nothing  hinderj 
eth,  321, 

viii.  i.  Ordereth  all  things 

sweetly,  143. 

xi.  17.  By  what  things  a  man 
sinneth,  178. 

xvi.  20.  Sweetness  of  every 

taste,  23. 

ECCLESIASTICUS. 
xi.  10.  If  thou  be  rich,  286. 

—  34.  Out  of  one  spark  a 

great  fire,  49. 

xiii.  1.  He  that  toucheth  pitch, 
38- 

xix.  1.  He  that  contemneth 

small  things,  49. 

xxiii.  6.  The  greediness  of  the 
belly,  44. 

xxxv.  21.  The  prayer  that  pierces 
the  clouds,  128. 

ISAIAS. 

i.  23.  They  all  love  bribes, 

293- 

iii.  12.  O,  my  people,  304. 

v.  20  Light  for  darkness,  262. 

vi.  2.  Seraphim,  with  six 

wings,  84,  135. 

vii.  9.  If  you  will  not  believe, 

69. 

ix.  20.  Eat, and  notbefilled,3i. 

xix.  14.  The  spirit  of  giddiness, 

*79- 

xxviii.  9.  Whom  shall  he  teach  ? 

160. 

—  10.  Command,  command 

again,  160. 

xxix.  8.  Faint  with  thirst,  30. 

xxx.  2.  Notasked  at  my  mouth, 

182. 

xl.  18.  To  whom  have  you 

likened  God  ?  97. 

xlviii.  iS.  Thy  peace  as  a  river, 
253- 

lv.  I.  All  you  that  thirst,  33. 

lvii.  20.  The  wicked  are  like  the 

raging  sea,  30. 

lix.  10.  We  have  groped  for  the 
wall,  38. 

lxiv.  4.  Eye  hath  not  seen,  73, 
96,  268,  310. 

JEREMIAS. 

i.  11.  A  rod  watching,  135, 

ii.  13.  Broken  cisterns,  294. 

—  13.  They  have  forsaker 

me,  27. 


IN  HOLY  SCR1PTUR 


381 


24.  The  wind  of  his  love, 

OSEAS. 

30. 

ii. 

14.  Speak  to  her  heart. 

— 

25.  Keep  thy  foot,  30. 

252. 

iv. 

10.  The  sword  reacheth  to 

the  soul,  161. 

JONAS. 

— 

23.  I  beheld  the  earth,  17. 

iii. 

4- 

Yet  forty  days,  167. 

viii. 

15.  We  looked  for  peace, 

iv. 

2. 

Is  not  this  what  I  said, 

161. 

171. 

xx. 

7.  Made  a  derision,  1 7 1 . 

— 

11. 

Their  right  hand  and 

xxij 

21.  I  did  not  send  prophets, 

their  left,  38. 

336. 

— 

28.  Chaff  to  do  with  the 

MICH^EAS. 

wheat,  235. 

vii. 

3- 

The  evil  of  their  hand, 

— 

29.  My  words  as  a  fire, 

328. 

235- 

— 

32.  I  sent  them  not,  336. 

HABACUC. 

xlv. 

Weakness  of  Banuch, 

ii. 

1. 

Stand  upon  my  watch, 

214. 

274. 

xlix. 

16.  Thy  arrogancy  hath 

deceived  thee,  329. 

ST.  MATTHEW. 

LAMENTATIONS. 

iv. 

8. 

All  the  kingdoms  of  the 

iii. 

20.  My  soul  shall  languish, 

world,  201. 

258. 

V. 

3- 

Blessed  are  the  poor  in 

— 

47.  Prophecy  a  snare,  171. 

spirit,  330. 

iv. 

I.  The  gold  become  dim, 

vi. 

2. 

They  have  their  reward, 

3°5- 

325,  326. 

— 

7.  Nazarites  whiter  than 

— 

3- 

Let  not  thy  left  hand. 

snow,  39. 

326. 

— 

8.  Blacker  than  coals,  39. 

— 

6. 

What  is  needful  for  you, 

370. 

BARUCH. 

— 

7- 

Speak  not  much,  370, 

iii. 

23.  Knew  not  the  way  of 

371- 

wisdom,  98. 

— 

24. 

Serve  two  masters,  243. 

— 

33- 

Seek  first  the  kingdom 

EZEKIEL. 

of  God,  368. 

i. 

8.  Turned  not  when  they 

vii. 

6. 

Give  not  .  .  holy  to 

went,  283. 

dogs,  28. 

viii. 

8.  Idols  of  the  house  of 

— 

14. 

How  narrow  the  gate, 

Israel,  41. 

86. 

— 

14.  Mourning  for  Adonis, 

— 

22. 

Done  miracles  in  Thy 

41. 

name,  192,  333. 

— 

16.  With  their  backs  to 

— 

23- 

Depart  from  Me,  192, 

the  temple,  41. 

333- 

xiv. 

8.  Will  set  thy  face  against 

viii. 

20. 

Hath  not  where  to  lay 

him,  181. 

His  head,  91. 

— 

9.  When  the  prophets  shall 

xi. 

28. 

Come  .  .  all  ye  that 

err,  181. 

labour,  33. 

— 

30. 

My  yoke  is  sweet,  90. 

DANIEL. 

xii. 

30- 

He  that  gathereth  not 

ix. 

22.  I  am  come  to  teach 

with  Me,  49. 

thee,  230. 

xiii. 

22. 

Sown  amid  thorns,  286. 

— 

27.  Abomination  of  desola¬ 

— 

58. 

He  wrought  not  many 

tion,  306. 

miracles,  350. 

382 


INDEX  OF  PLACES 


XV. 

8. 

Honoured  Me  with 
their  lips,  355. 

— 

14. 

If  the  blind  lead  the 
blind,  34,  151. 

To  take  the  bread  of 
children,  28. 

Let  him  deny  himself, 
308. 

— 

26. 

xvi. 

24. 

— 

26. 

What  doth  it  profit, 
288. 

xvii. 

5- 

This  is  My  beloved 
Son,  184. 

xviii. 

20. 

Two  or  three  in  My 
name,  189. 

A  rich  man  shall  hardly 
enter,  286. 

xix. 

23- 

— 

29. 

A  hundred  fold,  300, 
317- 

XX. 

22. 

Drink  of  the  chalice, 
89. 

xxi. 

9. 

Spread  their  garments 
in  the  way,  355. 

xxii. 

12. 

Into  the  exterior  dark¬ 
ness,  356. 

xxiii. 

5. 

To  be  seen  of  men, 325. 

— 

i5 

To  make  one  proselyte, 
288. 

xxiv. 

19- 

Woe  to  them  .  .  with 
child,  44. 

XXV. 

1. 

Lik^  to  ten  virgins, 
322. 

— 

21. 

Faithful  over  a  few 

things,  109. 

xxvi.  39.  Father,  ifit  be  possible, 
371. 

xxvii.  19.  The  vision  of  Pilate’s 
wife,  135. 

—  46.  WhyhastThou  forsaken 

Me  ?  91. 

xxviii.  10.  Go,  tell  My  brethren, 
339 

ST.  MARK. 

viii.  34.  Who  shall  save  his  life, 

87,  89. 

ix.  38.  Do  not  forbid  him,  373. 
xiii.  II.  Be  not  thoughtful  be¬ 
forehand,  337. 

ST.  LUKE. 

iv.  24.  Prophet  in  his  own 
country,  350 


viii. 

12. 

They  by  the  wayside, 
33°; 

ix. 

35- 

This  is  My  beloved  Son, 
184. 

— 

54- 

Fire  from  heaven,  335. 

x. 

20. 

Rejoice  not  in  this, 
334,  34°- 

xi. 

11. 

Teach  us  to  pray,  370. 

— 

5- 

Three  loaves,  84. 

— 

26. 

Seven  other  spirits,  1 10. 

xii. 

20. 

This  night  they  require 
thy  soul,  287,  300. 

35- 

Let  your  loins  be  girt, 
44. 

xiv. 

33- 

Cannot  be  My  disciple, 
22,  260. 

xvi. 

8. 

Children  of  this  world, 
294- 

10. 

Faithful  in  that  which 
is  least,  297. 

19- 

Feasted  sumptuously, 
3I4-  . 

xvii. 

21. 

The  kingdom  of  God 
is  within  you,  360. 

We  ought  always  to 
pray,  371. 

xviii. 

1. 

11. 

I  am  not  as  the  rest  of 
men,  264,  324. 

■ 

19- 

None  is  good,  but  only 
God,  18. 

xxii. 

26. 

He  that  is  greater 
among  you,  1 9. 

xxiv. 

6. 

The  sepulchre  empty, 
339-. 

15- 

Drawing  near  unto 
them,  339. 

■ 

21. 

We  hoped  it  was  He, 
162. 

25 

0,  foolish  and  slow  of 
heart,  162. 

32. 

Our  hearts  burning 
within  us,  339. 

ST.  JOHN. 

L 

5- 

Light  shineth  in  dark¬ 
ness,  16. 

— 

i3- 

Born  not  of  blood,  78. 

18. 

No  man  hath  seen 
God,  96,  26S. 

iii. 

5- 

Born  of  water  and  the 
Holy  Ghost,  79. 

— 

6. 

Born  of  the  Spirit,  319 

IN  HOLY  SCRIPTURE. 


383 


V. 

23 

— 

24- 

— 

34- 

48. 

— ■ 

ix. 

39- 

X. 

9- 

xi. 

5°- 

xii. 

16. 

— 

25- 

XIV. 

6. 

— 

21. 

— 

26. 

xvi. 

7- 

xix. 

30. 

— 

2. 

— 

3- 

XX. 

i5- 

— 

17- 

— 

19. 

29. 

ACTS 

OI 

i. 

6. 

iv. 

29. 

vii. 

32. 

viii. 

22. 

xiii. 

27. 

— 

46. 

xvii. 

29. 

xix. 

15- 

i. 

22. 

When  the  true  adorers, 

359-  . 

In  spirit  and  in  truth, 

359.  360. 

My  meat,  56. 

See  signs  and  wonders, 

339- 

For  judgment  I  am 
come,  75. 

I  am  the  door,  91. 

It  is  expedient  one 
should  die,  163. 

They  remembered  these 
things,  163. 

Who  killeth  his  own 
soul,  89. 

I  am  the  way,  91. 

He  who  loveth  Me, 
209. 

He  will  teach  you  all 
things,  168. 

If  I  go  not  away,  107. 

It  is  consummated,  186. 

The  sepulchre  empty, 

339- 

They  came  to  the 
sepulchre,  339. 

If  thou  hast  taken  Him 
away,  339. 

Touch  Me  not,  107. 

Peace  be  unto  you,  253. 

Blessed  they  who  have 
not  seen,  339. 

?  THE  APOSTLES. 

Restore  the  kingdom 
to  Israel,  163. 

They  may  speak  Thy 
Word,  338. 

Moses  at  the  bush,  96. 

Purchased  with  money, 
295. 

The  rulers  not  knowing 
Him,  162. 

To  speak  of  the  Word 
of  God,  93. 

The  Divinity  like  to 
gold  or  silver,  115. 

Who  are  you  ?  373. 

ROMANS. 

Professing  to  be  wise, 
18. 


i. 

ii. 

viii. 


x. 


xii. 

xiii. 


28.  Reprobate  sense,  296. 

21.  Thou  that  teachest 
another,  373. 

14.  Led  by  the  Spirit  of 
God,  249. 

24.  Hope  seen  is  not  hope, 

83- 

17.  Faith  cometh  by  hear¬ 
ing,  69,  218,  339 
3.  Not  to  be  more  wise 
than,  228. 

1.  Ordained  of  God,  143. 


1  CORINTHIANS. 

ii.  1.  Not  in  loftiness  of 

speech,  374. 

—  2.  And  Him  crucified, 

191. 

—  9.  Eye  hath  not  seen,  73, 

96,  268,  310. 

—  10.  The  Spirit  searcheth 

all  things,  212. 

—  14.  The  spiritual  man 

judgeth,  164. 

—  15.  The  spiritual  man 

judgeth  all  things, 
212,  317. 

iii.  1.  Milk  to  drink,  not 

meat,  149. 

— -  16.  You  are  the  temple  of 

God,  360. 

—  19.  Wisdom  of  this  world 

is  foolishness,  18,  19. 

vi.  17.  Joined  to  the  Lord  in 

one  spirit,  245. 

vii.  27.  Seek  not  a  wife,  289. 

—  29.  The  time  is  short,  51, 

290. 

xii.  7.  The  manifestation  of 

the  Spirit,  332. 

—  8.  The  word  of  wisdom, 

211. 

—  10.  Discerning  of  spirits, 

210,  331. 

xiii.  1.  If  I  speak  with  the 

tongues  of  men,  333 

—  10.  That  which  is  perfect  is 

come,  100. 

—  II.  When  I  was  a  child, 

147. 


2  CORINTHIANS, 
iii.  6.  The  letter  killeth,  159 


INDEX  OF  PLACES  IN  HOLY  SCRIPTURE. 


17-  Eternal  weight  of  glory, 

31?- 

IO.  Having  nothing,  299. 
14.  Light  with  darkness, 
16. 

14.  Angel  of  light,  108, 
352. 

2.  In  the  body  or  out,  199. 

4.  Secret  words,  206. 

9.  Virtue  made  perfect  in 
infirmity,  52. 

GALATIANS. 

8.  Though  we,  or  an 

angel,  186,  217. 

2.  Run  in  vain,  190. 

14.  Gentiles  to  live  as  the 
Jews,  192. 

17.  The  flesh  lusteth  against 
the  spirit,  317. 

COLOSSIANS. 

3.  In  whom  are  hid 

treasures,  185. 

9.  Fulness  of  theGodhead, 

185. 

5.  Service  of  idols,  293. 

THESS  ALONI  AN  S. 

19.  Extinguish  not  the 

Spirit,  271. 


HEBREWS. 

i.  1.  Spoken  to  us  by  His 

Son,  184. 

xi.  I.  Substance  of  things  to 

be  hoped  for,  83,  260. 

—  6.  He  that  cometh  to  God 

must  believe  that  He 
is,  99. 


ST.  JAMES,  73. 

ii.  20.  Faith  without  works  is 
dead,  281. 


2  ST.  PETER. 

i.  19.  We  have  the  more  firm 

prophetical  word,  142, 
218. 


APOCALYPSE. 

xii.  4.  The  third  part  of  fhe 

stars,  305. 

xiii.  I.  Beast  with  seven  heads, 

109. 

—  7.  Make  war  with  the 

saints,  no. 

xvii.  3.  Full  of  names  of  blas¬ 
phemy,  305. 

xviii.  7.  So  much  torment  and 
sorrow,  32,  300. 


3*5 


INDEX 


ASCENT  OF  MOUNT  CARMEL. 


Aaron,  1 88. 

Abraham,  revelation  to,  157. 

Achab,  repentance  of,  167  ;  deceived 
by  his  prophets,  180. 

Adonis,  41. 

Affections,  dangers  of,  48. 

Altar,  the,  of  the  old  law,  26. 

Ambition,  effects  of,  30. 

Angels,  punishment  of  the,  307. 

Apprehensions,  of  the  understand¬ 
ing,  102  ;  must  be  rejected,  105  ; 
spiritual,  195  ;  the  soul  must  be 
detached  from,  197;  dangers  of, 
215,  261  ;  disclosing  of,  to  the 
confessor,  necessary,  262  ;  proper 
use  of,  274. 

Aristotle  on  the  bat,  98. 

Attachment,  effects  of,  47,  49. 

Augustine,  St.,  21. 

Avarice,  294. 

Balaam,  perverseness  of,  176,  192, 

295.  333.  335.  336. 

Beast,  the,  109. 

Beauty,  natural,  dangers  of,  301  ; 
evils  of  joy  in,  305. 

Beginners,  145. 

Benedict,  St.,  364. 

Boasting,  spiritual,  329. 

Bribes,  292. 

Boethins,  observation  of,  284. 

Caiphas,  prophecy  of,  163. 

Carmel,  8,  58. 

Ceremonies,  vain,  366  ;  humanly 
devised,  370. 

Chalice,  the,  offered  to  the  two  dis¬ 
ciples,  89. 

Charity,  effect  of,  84. 

Children,  desire  of,  288. 

Christians,  the  difference  between, 

and  Jews.  186. 


Churches,  right  use  of,  359. 

Cloud,  the,  in  the  wilderness,  7c  ; 
in  the  temple,  100. 

Confessors,  unskilful,  5. 

Contemplation,  97  ;  prayer  of,  128. 

Corruption  and  generation,  28. 

Concupiscence,  mill  of,  32,  33. 

Counsels,  the  evangelical,  22. 

Courage,  necessity  of,  in  the 
spiritual  life,  4. 

Creation,  nothingness  of,  17. 

Creatures,  love  of,  15;  union  with 
God  hindered  by,  16  ;  wrong  to 
God  by,  28  ;  bring  sorrow,  33  ; 
cannot  be  means  of  union  with 
God,  95  ;  detachment  from,  298. 

Dalila,  deceit  of,  32. 

Darkness,  a  necessary  state  of  the 
soul,  71. 

Desire,  God  allows  one,  26  ;  union 
hindered  by  one,  42  ;  effects  in 
the  soul  of  one,  52. 

Desires,  resist  the  spirit,  29  ;  tor¬ 
ture  the  soul,  32  ;  blind  the  soul, 
34.  38 ;  enkindle  concupiscence, 
35  ;  hinder  progress,  36  ;  defile 
the  soul,  38  ;  weaken  the  soul, 
44  ;  destroy  the  love  of  God,  45  ; 
effects  of  the  natural,  45  ;  God 
made  angry  by,  50 ;  fruits  of, 
53  ;  how  to  subdue  the,  56. 

Directors,  need  of,  4  ;  unskilful,  5 

Detachment,  night  of  the  soul,  15  ; 
necessity  of,  51,  77,  90 ;  gives 
the  soul  rest,  59  ;  all-important, 
203,  298  ;  blessings  of,  299. 

Devotion,  places  of,  364. 

Dignities,  dangers  of,  93  ;  God 
hates  the  willing  recipient  of, 
229. 

Dionysius,  St.,  98. 


INDEX. 


386 


Directors,  duty  of  in  the  matter  of 
.isions,  14 1,  151  ;  mischief 

wrought  by  unskilful,  152,  153  ; 
counsel  to,  163  ;  everything 
should  be  revealed  to,  192 ;  ad¬ 
vantage  of  making  supernatural 
visitations  known  to,  193  ; 
visions  not  to  be  discussed  by, 
194  ;  obedience  due  to,  210  ;  not 
all  men  fit  for,  232 ;  defects  of, 
254- 

Doors  of  the  soul,  308. 

Elias,  96,  365. 

Eliseus,  things  distant  seen  by,  213. 

Endor,  witch  of,  338. 

Faith,  night  of,  67 ;  differs  from 
knowledge,  69  ;  the  dark  night 
of  the  soul,  69  ;  and  of  the  under-  , 
standing,  83 ;  sole  means  of 
union,  99,  140,  199  ;  fore¬ 

shadowed  in  the  pitchers  of 
Gedeon,  100  ;  admits  no  new 
revelation,  218  ;  cometh  by  hear- 
ing,  339. 

Feasts,  observance  of,  356. 

Forms,  supernatural,  not  to  be 
dwelt  on,  239. 

Garganus,  mount,  365. 

Gedeon,  18S. 

Generosity,  29S. 

God,  how  He  communicates  Him¬ 
self  to  the  soul,  137,  138  ;  angry 
with  those  who  seek  visions  and 
revelations,  172 ;  incomprehen¬ 
sible,  268. 

Good,  moral,  255  ;  advantage  of, 
320;  joy  in,  323 ;  evil  of  rejoicing 
in,  324  ;  effects  of  joy  in,  290, 
294  ;  natural,  303. 

Goods,  spiritual  kinds  of,  342. 

Goods,  temporal,  290. 

Gratia  gratis  data ,  211,  331  ;  right 
use  of,  334 ;  risks  of,  335  ;  joy 
in  to  be  checked,  340. 

Gregory,  St.,  the  Great,  338. 

Gustato  spiriiu  desipit  omnis  caro., 
146. 

Heli,  the  high  priest,  168. 

Heretics,  Satanic  delusions  of,  226. 

Hermits,  363. 


Honours,  desire  of,  58,  93. 

Humility,  great  worth  of,  264. 

Humanity,  the  sacred,  248. 

Images,  veneration  of,  280’ ;  im¬ 
proper  use  of,  345,  349  ;  cautions 
concerning,  352  ;  direction  for 
the  right  use  of,  333. 

Imagination,  the,  113;  fed  by  the 
senses,  114. 

Imperfections,  habitual,  47  ;  super¬ 
natural,  134. 

Impressions,  spiritual,  236 ;  dangers 
of  dwelling  on,  261. 

Inconsistency,  source  of,  330; 
effects  of,  354. 

Jacob,  the  three  commandments  of, 
25  ;  the  promise  made  to,  137. 

Jeroboam,  the  promise  to,  169. 

Jethro,  advice  of,  to  Moses,  191. 

Joannes  Patricius,  365. 

Jonas,  affliction  of,  171. 

Joy,  284 ;  sources  of,  283 ;  sup¬ 
pression  of,  necessary,  297  ;  pun¬ 
ishment  of,  300  ;  evil  results  of 
sensual,  314  ;  advantages  of  self- 
denial  in,  316,  319. 

Josaphat,  prayer  of,  176. 

Judith,  178,  372. 

Just,  the,  soul  of,  40,  41. 

Knowledge,  how  obtained,  14,  68, 
96,  144;  natural  and  supernatural, 
102  ;  intellectual,  205  ;  infused, 
210. 

Laban,  346. 

Learning,  dangers  of,  93. 

Leeches,  types  of  desires,  44. 

Life,  the  supernatural,  78. 

Light,  the  soul  in  darkness  finds, 
75  ;  not  an  object  of  vision,  127  ; 
the  divine,  130. 

Loaves,  lesson  of  the  three,  84. 

Locutions,  156  ;  how  men  are 
deceived  by,  159  ;  interior,  220  ; 
delusions,  223  ;  a  possible  hind¬ 
rance  to  union,  224  ;  the  under¬ 
standing  must  not  dwell  on,  225  ; 
three  sources  of,  227  ;  effects  of 
satanic,  228  ;  formal,  231  ;  sub¬ 
stantial,  233. 


INDEX. 


387 


Love,  effects  of,  16,  21. 

Lucifer,  sin  of,  327. 

Lukewarmness,  source  of,  293,  303, 
3'4- 

Magic,  337- 

Manna,  the,  23. 

Marriage,  vanity  to  rejoice  in,  289. 

Martyrdom,  165. 

Mary  Magdalene,  St.,  107,  in, 
339- 

Memory,  the,  discipline  of,  242, 
248,  277 ;  evils  resulting  from 
the  use  of,  250  ;  emptiness  of, 
necessary,  252,  254,  267. 

Meditations,  daughters  of  Jerusalem, 
338. 

Meditation,  discontinuance  of,  1 1 5  ; 
when  the  soul  should  cease  from, 

"9.  131- 

Melancholy,  effects  of,  120. 

Michas,  346. 

Mind,  peace  of,  how  attained  to, 
257- 

Miracles,  238. 

Mistakes  of  spiritual  persons,  115. 

Mortification,  the  night  of  the  soul, 
13,  52  ;  necessity  of,  37. 

Moses,  advice  of  Jethro  to,  191. 

Nazarites,  39. 

Night,  the  dark,  10  ;  nature  of,  nj 
detachment  from  all  things,  14  ; 
the  spiritual,  65  ;  the  active,  85. 

Oratories,  decoration  of,  354,  357 ; 
right  use  of,  358. 

Passions,  the,  282 ;  effects  of,  283. 

Paternoster,  370. 

Paul,  St.,  consults  St.  Peter,  190; 
rapture  of,  199. 

Perfect,  the,  memory  of,  246. 

Perfection,  hindrances  of,  3. 

Perseverance,  328. 

Pharisee,  the,  324. 

Philosophers,  a  saying  of,  14,  16, 
43.  94.  122,  256,  318. 

Pilgrimages,  350. 

Pleasure  in  supernatural  things, 
effects  of,  266. 

Preachers,  372  ;  eloquent,  374. 

Presence  of  God,  77,  80. 


Pride,  spiritual,  263. 

Prophecies,  the,  ridiculed  by  the 
Jews,  160,  170  ;  concerning  our 
Lord  misunderstood,  162. 

Reason,  disordered  by  sin,  9  ;  the 
guide  of  the  soul,  35. 

Recreation,  31 1. 

Revelations,  not  to  be  sought,  hi, 
172,  184;  nor  admitted,  147; 
fulfilment  of,  167;  theseekingof 
displeasing  unto  God,  174  ; 
dangers  of  seeking,  176  ;  lawful 
to  ask  for  under  the  old  law,  182 ; 
two  kinds  of,  204  ;  dangers  of, 
215  ;  diverse  modes  of,  216. 

Riches,  dangers  of,  286 ;  disap¬ 
pointments  of,  296. 

Ruben,  43. 

Rosaries,  improper  use  of,  348. 

Samuel  rebukes  Saul,  175  ;  appear¬ 
ance  of  in  Endor,  338. 

Satan,  wiles  of,  105  ;  able  to  fore¬ 
tell  future  events.  177;  effect  of 
visions  caused  by,  213  ;  power  of, 
214;  feigns  locutions,  226;  can¬ 
not  feign  the  substantial  locutions, 
234- 

Self  denial,  88,  308. 

Self  esteem,  evil  of,  318. 

Self-government,  not  safe,  187. 

Sense,  night  of,  10,  13,  55. 

Senses,  instrument  of  knowledge, 

68,  96 ;  how  God  prepares  them 
for  spiritual  uses,  144. 

Sermons,  hearing  of,  374. 

Simon  Magus,  295,  333,  337. 

Sleep,  the  spiritual,  129. 

Sloth,  spiritual,  304. 

Solomon,  cause  of  the  fall  of,  37  ; 
infused  knowledge  of,  211  ;  on 
riches,  287  ;  gifts  of,  331  ;  prayer 
of,  309. 

Soul,  the,  ravaged  by  the  desires, 
27  ;  and  defiled,  38  ;  a  perfect 
image  of  God,  39,  40  ;  one  will 
of.  5°  .  faith,  the  dark  night  of, 

69,  must  be  as  a  blind  man,  72  ; 
union  habitual  of,  76  ;  com¬ 
pared  to  a  window,  80  ;  injured 
by  attending  to  visions,  107  ;  how 
God  trains,  146 ;  operations  of  in 


3S8 


INDEX. 


union,  245  ;  four  passions  of, 
282  ;  worldly  joy  sullies,  309. 

Spirit,  the,  night  of,  66 ;  what  it  is 
to  extinguish  the,  272. 

Spirituality,  liable  to  certain  dan¬ 
gers,  104. 

Sweetness,  sensible,  312  ;  evils 
attending,  361. 

Teaching  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  222, 
224. 

Temple,  the,  defilement  of,  41. 

Tobias,  the  elder,  178. 

Tobias,  the  younger,  11. 

Touch,  the  divine,  207 ;  how 

wrought,  209,  236. 

Transformation,  77  ;  how  wrought, 
78,  79,  80. 

Understanding,  the,  cannot  com¬ 
prehend  God,  97 ;  must  not 
dwell  upon  visions,  136,  142  ; 
the  spiritual  eye  of  the  soul,  196. 

Union,  the  divine,  46  ;  hindered  by 
one  voluntary  desire,  47  ; 

explained,  76 ;  not  equal  in 
all,  81  ;  when  wrought,  92  ;  faith, 
the  sole  means  of,  99  ;  condition 


of,  136;  effects  of,  243;  effects 
of  the  habitual,  232. 

Vipers,  44. 

Virgins,  the  ten,  322. 

Virtues  grow  by  practice,  54  ;  work 
of  the  three  theological,  82. 

Vision  of  God,  not  equal  for  all,  81. 

Visions,  must  be  disregarded,  105, 
108,  148 ;  effects  of  diabolic, 
106  ;  consequences  of  not  reject¬ 
ing  divine,  107,  140  ;  blessedness 
of  neglecting,  109,  138  ;  are  not 
the  means  of  union,  in,  138  : 
Satanic,  1 35  ;  imaginary,  135  ; 
why  sent,  143  ;  evil  effects  of 
attending  to,  150;  delusions, 
result  of,  181  ;  two  kinds  of 
spiritual,  198  ;  intellectual,  more 
clear  than  bodily,  200. 

Way,  the  strait,  86. 

“  Why  hast  Thou  forsaken  me?”  91. 

Will,  the,  dark  night  of  the,  281. 

Works,  good,  how  defective,  325. 

Words,  the,  of  God  hard  to  under¬ 
stand,  170. 

World,  the,  wisdom  of,  18  ; 
necessity  of  renouncing,  22. 


Printed  in  Great  Britain  by  Hazell,  Watson  <£  Viney,  Ld., 
London  and  Aylesbury. 


DATE  DUE 


WOS  '65 

RESFR\ 

ffS 

IVP  29'^ 

- 

MR  2  7  '*6 

AG^S'«6 

fit  12  '98 

GAYLORD 

|  PRINTED  INU.S.A, 

MARYGROUE  COLLEGE  LIBRARY 

The  Ascent  of  Mount  Carmel  ; 
248.8  J87  tL58 


3  1T27  ODlllSSfl  0 


2k8.8 

J87 

tL58 


