Management: Strategies

March 2008
SOUNDVIEW Executive Book SummariesŪ
www.summary.com

The Fifth Discipline
The Art & Practice of the Learning Organization
THE SUMMARY IN BRIEF
There are ways of working together that are vastly more satisfying and more productive than the prevailing system of management. Organizations work the way they do because of how we work, how we think and how we interact; the changes required ahead are not only in our organizations but in ourselves as well. In building learning organizations there is no ultimate destination or end state -- there is only a lifelong journey.
In the long run the only sustainable competitive advantage is your organization's ability to learn faster than the competition.The leadership lessons demonstrate the many ways that the core ideas in The Fifth Discipline -- many of which seemed radical when the book was first published in 1990 -- have become deeply integrated into people's ways of seeing the world and their managerial practices.
In this summary of the revised and updated edition of The Fifth Discipline, author Peter M. Senge describes how companies can rid themselves of the learning "disabilities" that threaten their productivity and success by adopting the strategies of learning organizations -- ones in which new and expansive patterns of thinking are nurtured, collective aspiration is set free and people are continually learning how to create results they truly desire.
IN THIS SUMMARY, YOU WILL LEARN:
· How to reignite the spark of genuine learning driven by people focused on what truly matters to them.
· Ways to bridge teamwork into macro-creativity. · How to free yourself of confining assumptions and mindsets. · How to determine if your organization has a "learning disability." · What the 11 laws of the fifth discipline are. · How to identify the patterns that control events.
Published by Soundview Executive Book Summaries, P.O. Box 1053, Concordville, PA 19331 USA Đ 2008 Soundview Executive Book Summaries · All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or part is prohibited. Concentrated KnowledgeTM for the Busy Executive · www.summary.com March 2008 · Order # TFS-30A

by Peter M. Senge
CONTENTS
How Our Actions Create Our Reality ... and How We Can Change It
Pages 2, 3
Multiple Levels of Explanation
Page 3
The Fifth Discipline: The Cornerstone of the Learning Organization
Pages 3, 4, 5
The Core Disciplines: Building the Learning Organization
Pages 5, 6
Collective Discipline
Page 6
Reflections From Practice
Pages 6, 7, 8

THE COMPLETE SUMMARY: THE FIFTH DISCIPLINE
by Peter M. Senge

The author: Peter M. Senge is a senior lecturer at the MIT Sloan School of Management and the founder of the Society for Organizational Learning (SoL). In addition to The Fifth Discipline, he is the co-author of The Fifth Discipline Fieldbook, The Dance of Change, Schools That Learn and Presence. Senge is widely known as one of the most innovative thinkers about management and leadership in the world. He received a B.S. in engineering from Stanford University, as well as an M.S. in social systems modeling and a Ph.D. in management from MIT.
The Fifth Discipline by Peter M. Senge. Copyright Đ 1990, 2006 by Peter M. Senge. Summarized with permission of the publisher, Currency Doubleday, $24.95, 445 pages, ISBN 0-385-51725-4.
Summary copyright Đ 2008 by Soundview Executive Book Summaries, www.summary.com, 1-800-SUMMARY, 1-610-558-9495.

How Our Actions Create Our Reality ... and How We Can Change It
As the world becomes more interconnected and business becomes more complex and dynamic, work must become more "learningful." It is no longer sufficient to have one person learning for the organization, a Ford or a Sloan or a Watson or a Gates. It's just not possible any longer to figure it out from the top and have everyone else following the orders of the "grand strategist."The organizations that will truly excel in the future will be the organizations that discover how to tap people's commitment and capacity to learn at all levels in an organization.
Learning organizations are possible because, deep down, we are all learners. Learning organizations are possible because not only is it our nature to learn, but we love to learn.
Perhaps the most salient reason for building learning organizations is that we are only now starting to understand the capabilities that such organizations must possess. What fundamentally will distinguish learning organizations from traditional authoritarian "controlling organizations" will be the mastery of certain basic disciplines.That is why the "disciplines of the learning organization" are vital.
Disciplines of the Learning Organization
Today, five new component technologies are gradually converging to innovate learning organizations. Each provides a vital dimension in building organizations that can truly "learn," that can continually enhance their capacity to realize their highest aspirations.
· Systems Thinking.You can only understand the

system of a rainstorm by contemplating the whole rather than any individual part of the pattern. Business and other human endeavors are also systems. They, too, are bound by invisible fabrics of interrelated actions, which often take years to fully play out their effects on each other. Systems thinking also fuses the other four disciplines into a coherent whole that keeps them from turning into fads or gimmicks, and that is why it's the all-important "fifth discipline."
· Personal Mastery. Personal mastery is the discipline of continually clarifying and deepening our personal vision, of focusing our energies, of developing patience and of seeing reality objectively.
· Mental Models. Mental models are deeply ingrained assumptions, generalizations or even pictures or images that influence how we understand the world and how we take action.Very often, we are not consciously aware of our mental models or the effects they have on our behavior.
· Building Shared Vision. If any one idea about leadership has inspired organizations for thousands of years, it's the capacity to hold a shared picture of the future we seek to create.When there is genuine vision (as opposed to the all-too-familiar "vision statement"), people excel and learn, not because they are told to, but because they want to.
· Team Learning. When teams are truly learning, not only are they producing extraordinary results, but the individual members are growing more rapidly than they otherwise would have.
The Fifth Discipline
It is vital that the five disciplines develop as an ensemble. This is challenging because it is much harder to inte-

1-800-SUMMARY Published by Soundview Executive Book Summaries (ISSN 0747-2196), P.O. Box 1053, Concordville, PA 19331 USA, a

service@summary.com

division of Concentrated Knowledge Corp. Published monthly. Subscriptions: $209 per year in the United States, Canada and Mexico, and $295 to all other countries. Periodicals postage paid at Concordville, Pa., and additional offices.

Postmaster: Send address changes to Soundview, P.O. Box 1053, Concordville, PA 19331. Copyright Đ 2008 by Soundview Executive Book Summaries.

Available formats: Summaries are available in print, audio and electronic formats.To subscribe, call us at 1-800-SUMMARY (610-558-9495 outside the United States

and Canada), or order on the Internet at www.summary.com. Multiple-subscription discounts and corporate site licenses are also available.

Rebecca S. Clement, Publisher; Sarah T. Dayton, Editor In Chief; Melissa Ward, Managing Editor; Christine Wright, Senior Graphic Designer; Chris Lauer, Contributing Editor

2 Soundview Executive Book SummariesŪ www.summary.com

Summary: THE FIFTH DISCIPLINE

grate new tools than to simply apply them separately. But the payoffs are immense.
This is why systems thinking is the fifth discipline. It is the discipline that integrates the disciplines, fusing them into a coherent body of theory and practice. It keeps them from being separate gimmicks or the latest organization fads.Without a systemic orientation, there is no motivation to look at how the disciplines interrelate. By enhancing each of the other disciplines, it continually reminds us that the whole can exceed the sum of its parts.
Does Your Organization Have a Learning Disability?
In most organizations that fail, there is abundant evidence in advance that the firm is in trouble.This evidence goes unheeded, however, even when individual managers are aware of it.The organization as a whole cannot recognize impending threats, understand the implications of those threats or come up with alternatives.
It is no accident that most organizations learn poorly. The way they are designed and managed, the way people's jobs are defined, and most importantly, the way we have all been taught to think and interact, creates fundamental learning disabilities.
Structure Influences Behavior
Here is the first principle of systems thinking: When placed in the same system, people, however different, tend to produce similar results.
The systems perspective tells us that we must look beyond individual mistakes or bad luck to understand important problems.We must look beyond personalities and events.We must look into the underlying structures that shape individual actions and create conditions under which types of events become likely. G
The Fifth Discipline: The Cornerstone of the Learning Organization
The fifth discipline -- systems thinking -- is the cornerstone of the learning organization. Here are the laws of the fifth discipline:
1. Today's problems come from yesterday's "solutions." Solutions that merely shift problems from one part of a system to another often go undetected because those who "solved" the first problem are different from those who inherit the new problem.
2. The harder you push, the harder the system pushes back. Systems thinking has a name for this phenomenon: "compensating feedback" -- when well-

Multiple Levels of Explanation
The systems perspective shows that there are multiple levels of explanation in any complex situation. In some sense, all are equally "true." But their usefulness is quite different. Event explanations -- "who did what to whom" -- doom their holders to a reactive stance.
"Pattern of behavior" explanations focus on seeing longer-term trends and assessing their implications. Pattern of behavior explanations begin to break the grip of short-term reactiveness.
The third level of explanation, the "structural" explanation, is the least common and most powerful. It focuses on answering the question, "What causes the patterns of behavior?"
The reason that structural explanations are so important is that only they address the underlying causes of behavior at a level at which patterns of behavior can be changed. Structural explanations are inherently generative.
intentioned interventions call forth responses from the system that offset the benefits of the intervention.The more effort you expend trying to improve matters, the more effort seems to be required.
3. Behavior grows better before it grows worse. Low-leverage interventions would be much less alluring if it were not for the fact that many actually work, in the short term. In complex human systems there are always many ways to make things look better in the short run. Only eventually does the compensating feedback come back to haunt you.
4. The easy way out usually leads back in. Pushing harder and harder on familiar solutions, while fundamental problems persist or worsen, is a reliable indicator of nonsystemic thinking -- what is often called the "what we need here is a bigger hammer" syndrome.
5. The cure can be worse than the disease. Sometimes the easy or familiar solution is not only ineffective but addictive and dangerous.The long-term, most insidious consequence of applying nonsystemic solutions is increased need for more and more of the solution.
6. Faster is slower. Virtually all natural systems, from ecosystems to animals to organizations, have intrinsically optimal rates of growth.The optimal rate is far less than the fastest possible growth.When growth becomes excessive the system itself will seek to compensate by slowing down, perhaps putting the organization's survival at risk in the process.

www.summary.com Soundview Executive Book SummariesŪ 3

Summary: THE FIFTH DISCIPLINE

7. Cause and effect are not closely related in time and space. There is a fundamental mismatch between the nature of reality in complex systems and our predominant ways of thinking about that reality.The first step in correcting that mismatch is to let go of the notion that cause and effect are close in time and space.
8. Small changes can produce big results -- but the areas of highest leverage are often the least obvious. There are no simple rules for finding highleverage changes, but there are ways of thinking that make finding them more likely. Learning to see underlying structures rather than events is a starting point. Thinking in terms of processes of change rather than snapshots is another.
9.You can have your cake and eat it too -- but not both at once. Sometimes the knottiest dilemmas, when seen from the systems point of view, aren't dilemmas at all.They are artifacts of "snapshot" rather than "process" thinking, and appear in a whole new light once you think consciously of change over time.
10. Dividing an elephant in half does not produce two small elephants. Living systems have integrity.Their character depends on the whole.The same is true for organizations; understanding of the most challenging managerial issues requires seeing the whole system that generates the issues.
11. There is no blame. We all tend to blame someone else for our problems. Systems thinking shows us that there is no separate "other"; that you and the someone else are part of a single system.The cure lies in your relationship with your "enemy."
A Shift of Mind
Systems thinking is a discipline for seeing wholes. It is a framework for seeing interrelationships rather than things, for seeing patterns rather than static "snapshots." It is a set of general principles -- distilled over the course of the 20th century, spanning fields as diverse as the physical and social sciences, engineering and management. It is also a set of specific tools and techniques, originating in two threads: "feedback" concepts of cybernetics and "servo-mechanism" engineering theory dating back to the 19th century. And systems thinking is a sensibility -- for the subtle interconnectedness that gives living systems their unique character.
Systems thinking is the fifth discipline because it is the conceptual cornerstone that underlies all of the five learning disciplines. All are concerned with a shift of mind from seeing parts to seeing wholes, from seeing people as helpless reactors to seeing them as active partic-

ipants in shaping their reality, from reacting to the present to creating the future.Without systems thinking, there is neither the incentive nor the means to integrate the learning disciplines once they have come into practice. As the fifth discipline, systems thinking is the cornerstone of how learning organizations think about their world.
Reinforcing and Balancing Feedback and Delays
There are two distinct types of feedback processes: reinforcing and balancing. Reinforcing (or amplifying) feedback processes are the engines of growth.Whenever you are in a situation in which things are growing, you can be sure that reinforcing feedback is at work. Reinforcing feedback can also generate accelerating decline -- a pattern of decline in which small drops amplify themselves into larger and larger drops, such as the decline in bank assets when there is a financial panic.
Balancing (or stabilizing) feedback operates whenever there is a goal-oriented behavior. A goal can be an explicit target, as when a firm seeks a desired market share, or it can be implicit -- such as a bad habit -- which, despite disavowing, we stick to nevertheless. In addition, many feedback processes contain delays, interruptions in the flow of influence that make the consequences of actions occur gradually.
Identifying the Patterns That Control Events
Structures of which we are unaware hold us prisoner. Conversely, learning to see the structures within which we operate begins a process of freeing ourselves from previously unseen forces and ultimately mastering the ability to work with them and change them.
One of the most important, and potentially most empowering, insights to come from the young field of systems thinking is that certain patterns of structure recur again and again.These "systems archetypes" or "generic structures" embody the key to learning to see structures in our personal and organizational lives.The systems archetypes -- of which there are only a relatively small number -- suggest that not all management problems are unique, something that experienced managers know intuitively.
The systems archetypes reveal an incredibly elegant simplicity underlying the complexity of management issues. As we learn how to recognize more and more of these kinds of archetypes, it becomes possible for us to see more and more places where there is leverage in facing difficult challenges, and to explain these opportunities to others.
Mastering the systems archetype starts an organization on the path of putting the systems perspective into practice. For learning organizations, only when managers

4 Soundview Executive Book SummariesŪ www.summary.com

Summary: THE FIFTH DISCIPLINE

start thinking in terms of the systems archetype does systems thinking become an active daily agent, continually revealing how we create our reality.
Self-Limiting or Self-Sustaining Growth
It's hard to disagree with the principle of leverage. But the leverage in most real-life systems is not obvious to most of the actors in those systems.The purpose of the systems archetypes, such as limits to growth and shifting the burden, is to help people see those structures and thus find the leverage, especially amid the pressures and crosscurrents of real-life business situations.
We all know the metaphor of being unable to "see the forest for the trees." Unfortunately, when most of us "step back" we just see lots of trees.We pick our favorite one or two and focus all our attention and change effort on those.
In effect, the art of systems thinking lies in seeing through the detail complexity to the underlying structures generating change. Systems thinking does not mean ignoring detail complexity. Rather, it means organizing detail complexity into a coherent story that illuminates the causes of problems and how they can be remedied in enduring ways.
Mastering such basic archetypes as growth and underinvestment is the first step in developing the capability of seeing the forest and the trees -- of seeing information in terms of broad and detailed patterns. Only by seeing both can you respond powerfully to the challenge of complexity and change. G
The Core Disciplines: Building the Learning Organization
A small number of organizational leaders are recognizing the radical rethinking of corporate philosophy that a commitment to individual learning requires. Kazuo Inamori, founder and president of Kyocera (a world leader in fine ceramics technology and electronics) until his retirement in 1995, says:"Whether it is research and development, company management, or any other aspect of business, the active force is `people.' And people have their own will, their own mind, and their own way of thinking. If the employees themselves are not sufficiently motivated to challenge the goals of growth and technological development ... there will simply be no growth, no pain in productivity and no technological development."
Personal Mastery
"Personal mastery" is the phrase we use for the discipline of personal growth and learning. People with high

levels of personal mastery are continually expanding their ability to create the results in life they truly seek. From their quest for continual learning comes the spirit of the learning organization.
The way to begin developing a sense of personal mastery is to approach it as a discipline, as a series of practices and principles that must be applied to be useful. These include:
· Personal vision. The ability to focus on ultimate intrinsic desires, not only on secondary goals, is a cornerstone of personal mastery.
· Holding creative tension. Creative tension is the force that comes into play at the moment when we acknowledge a vision that is at odds with current reality. An accurate, insightful view of current reality is as important as a clear vision.
· "Structural Conflict": the power of your powerlessness. If structural conflict arises from deep underlying beliefs, then it can be changed only by changing the beliefs.
· Commitment to the truth. Commitment to the truth means a relentless willingness to root out the ways we limit or deceive ourselves from seeing what is, and to continually challenge our theories of why things are the way they are.
In addition to clarifying the structures that characterize personal mastery as a discipline (such as creative tension, emotional tension and structural conflict), the systems perspective also illuminates subtler aspects of personal mastery such as integrating reason and intuition, continually seeing more of our connectedness to the world, compassion and commitment to the whole.
Mental Models
New insights fail to get put into practice because they conflict with deeply held internal images of how the world works, images that limit us to familiar ways of thinking and acting.That is why the discipline of managing mental models -- surfacing, testing and improving our internal pictures of how the world works -- promises to be a major breakthrough for building learning organizations.
Case studies suggest three facets to developing an organization's capacity to surface and test mental models: tools that promote personal awareness and reflective skills, "infrastructures" that try to institutionalize regular practice with mental models, and a culture that promotes inquiry and challenges our thinking. It is the connections among them that matter most.
Skills of reflection involve slowing down our thinking

www.summary.com Soundview Executive Book SummariesŪ 5

Summary: THE FIFTH DISCIPLINE

processes so that we can become more aware of how we form our mental models and the ways they influence our actions. Inquiry skills concern how we operate in faceto-face interactions with others, especially in dealing with complex and conflicting issues.Together with the tools and methods used to develop these skills, these constitute the core of the discipline of mental models:
· Facing up to distinctions between espoused theories (what we say) and theories-in-use (the implied theory in what we do)
· Recognizing "leaps of abstraction" (noticing our jumps from observation to generalization)
· Exposing the "left-hand column" (articulating what we normally do not say)
· Balancing inquiry and advocacy (skills for effective collaborative learning).
Just as "linear thinking" dominates most mental models used for critical decisions today, the learning organizations of the future will make key decisions based on shared understandings of interrelationships and patterns of change.
Shared Vision
Shared visions emerge from personal visions.This is how they derive their energy and how they foster commitment. Caring is rooted in an individual's own set of values, concerns and aspirations.This is why genuine caring about a shared vision is rooted in personal visions. Organizations intent on building shared visions continually encourage members to develop their personal visions.
Personal mastery is the bedrock of shared visions.This means not only personal vision, but commitment to the truth and creative tension -- the hallmarks of personal mastery. Shared vision can generate levels of creative tension that go far beyond individuals' comfort levels.Those who will contribute most toward realizing a lofty vision will be those who can "hold" this creative tension: those who can remain clear on the vision and continue to
Collective Discipline
The discipline of team learning involves mastering the practices of dialogue and discussion, the two distinct ways that teams converse. In dialogue, there is the free and creative exploration of complex and subtle issues, a deep "listening" to one another and suspending of one's own views. By contrast, in discussion different views are presented and defended and there is a search for the best view to support decisions that must be made at this time.

inquire into current reality.They will be the ones who believe deeply in their ability to create their futures, because that is what they experience personally.
Team Learning
Within organizations, team learning has three critical dimensions. First, there is the need to think insightfully about complex issues. Here, teams must learn how to tap the potential for many minds to be more intelligent than one mind.While that's easy to say, there are powerful forces at work in organizations that tend to make the intelligence of the team less than, not greater than, the intelligence of individual team members. Many of these forces are within the direct control of the team members.
Second, there is the need for innovative, coordinated action.The championship sports teams and great jazz ensembles provide metaphors for acting in spontaneous yet coordinated ways. Outstanding teams in organizations develop the same sort of relationship -- an "operational trust" in which each team member remains conscious of the other team members and can be counted on to act in ways that complement the others' actions.
Third, there is the role of team members on other teams. For example, most of the actions of senior teams are actually carried out through other teams.Thus, a learning team continually fosters other learning teams through inculcating the practices and skills of team learning more broadly. G
Reflections From Practice
Reflective openness is the cornerstone of the discipline of mental models. None of us has a company in our heads, or a family, or a country. But our life experience shapes a rich mix of assumptions, feelings and at best some well-formed hypotheses about these systems.
Foundations
The nurturing of reflective openness leads to a willingness to continually test these views. It is characterized by true open-mindedness, the first step toward deeper listening and real conversation.This is easy to say but not so easy to do -- because, as master practitioners know, building an environment of reflectiveness starts with our own willingness to open ourselves, to be vulnerable, to be "exposed."This is unlikely to happen in any organizational environment that does not have a deep commitment to helping people grow, and to creating the trust and spirit of mutuality this requires.
Creating an environment where people can grow starts with "having a purpose worthy of people's commitment,"

6 Soundview Executive Book SummariesŪ www.summary.com

Summary: THE FIFTH DISCIPLINE

says Goran Carstedt, former president of Volvo Sweden and Ikea North America."Business leaders often ask their people to be committed to the organization's goals," says Carstedt,"but the real question is what is the organization committed to, and is that worthy of my time?"
Ironically, equating a business's purpose with the economic bottom line dooms the enterprise to financial mediocrity, as countless studies of long-term business performance have shown. In a world where more people have more choices about where and how they work, it matters that an organization stands for something.
Impetus
There seem to be three overlapping but distinctive motivations that compel people to take on the difficult work of building learning organizations. Some seek a better model for how to manage and lead change. Some are trying to build an organization's overall capacity for continual adaptation to change. All seem to believe that there is a way of managing and organizing work that is superior in both pragmatic and human terms, that significantly improves performance and creates the types of workplaces in which most of us would truly like to work.
When people become more engaged in and committed to their work, they are usually willing to confront more difficult issues.They are willing to risk doing things beyond their comfort zone.They are even willing to fail in pursuit of goals that really matter to them rather than be trapped like "those cold and timid souls who know neither victory nor defeat," as Theodore Roosevelt put it.
If we live our lives in pursuit of what matters most to us, and we do our work with people whose friendship we value, we will have all the happiness we need. In this sense, happiness is simply a byproduct of a life well lived.This is what motivates practitioners of organizational learning.
Strategies
The eight strategies and examples that follow should give a sense of the state of practical know-how today:
1. Integrating learning and working. A culture that integrates action and reflection arrives at better decisions to which people can genuinely commit, and its people are mentally more prepared.
2. Starting where you are with whomever is there. It is easy to think that the deep learning strategic framework only applies to top management. But in fact, thinking strategically is imperative for leaders at all levels.
3. Becoming bicultural. A subtle area of attitude and skill involves never losing touch with the larger organiza-

tional environment -- something called "becoming bicultural." Management's and employees' failure to consider the greater environment has proven to be the undoing of many otherwise successful learning initiatives.
4. Creating practice fields. The idea of practice fields comes from a simple fact: It is very difficult to learn anything new without the opportunity for practice.
5. Connecting with the core of the business. For radical new ideas and practices to take root within an organization there must be fertile soil. Successful learning practitioners intent upon having a large-scale impact learn how to connect with the core of the organization -- at the deepest levels of individual and collective identity -- and how the organization most naturally creates value.
6. Building learning communities. When our own deep questions and aspirations connect with an organization's essence, community develops. Attunement to new learning communities, and networks of relationships based on common aims and shared meaning, becomes both a strategy and an outcome for leaders.
7. Working with "The Other." Diversity becomes a key guiding idea for leaders, beyond political correctness or mere sentiment.
8. Developing learning infrastructures. Learning infrastructures are often a key element of effective learning strategies. Learning infrastructures do not leave learning to chance.
The Leader's New Work
If people imagine their organization as an ocean liner and themselves as the leader, what is their role? For years, the most common answer received when posing this question to groups of managers was "the captain." Others might say,"the navigator, setting the direction."A few would say "the helmsman, actually controlling the direction."While these are legitimate leadership roles, there is another that, in many ways, eclipses them all in importance.
The neglected leadership role is that of the designer of the ship. No one has a more sweeping influence on the ship than the designer. Leaders who appreciate organizations as living systems realize that they can create organizational artifacts like new metrics, or formal roles and processes, or intranet Web sites, or innovative meetings -- but it is what happens when people use the artifacts or processes or participate in the meetings that matters.
How do leaders help people see reality as a medium for creating their vision rather than as a source of limitation? One way is to help people see problems in terms of underlying systemic structures and mental models rather than just short-term events.This can help in

www.summary.com Soundview Executive Book SummariesŪ 7

Summary: THE FIFTH DISCIPLINE

appreciating the forces shaping reality, and how we are part of those forces and can affect them.
Systems Citizens
Systems citizenship starts with seeing the systems that we have shaped and that in turn shape us. Being stuck in a system that is not working invariably leads us to feel frustrated and trapped -- until we see the larger patterns and our own part in creating these patterns. Once we do, new alternatives become evident.
There are two fundamental aspects to seeing systems: seeing patterns of interdependency and seeing into the future.The ability to see interdependencies can be aided by tools like systems diagrams, but can also arise from stories, pictures and songs. Seeing into the future starts with knowing how to interpret signs that are present today but go unrecognized by those without a systems perspective.
It is easy to get lost when thinking about global issues like climate change, to feel that there is nothing you can do, and maybe even that there is nothing anyone can do. But global systems are not just global.They are also right here.
Herein lies a secret of the systems worldview.The system is not only out there, it is in here.We are the seed carriers of the whole in the sense that we carry the mental models that pervade the larger system.We are all actors in the global energy system, the global food system and the global industrialization process.We can either think and act in ways that reinforce the system as it currently operates, or think and act in ways that lead in different directions. Because the systems that shape our lives manifest themselves at multiple levels, we can work at multiple levels.
Supply Networks:The System Seeing Itself
In 2004, Unilever and Oxfam were joined by more than 30 multinational food companies, global and local non-governmental organizations (NGOs), major foundations and government representatives from around the world in a novel experiment called the Sustainable Food Lab.The aim was to bring "sustainable food supply chains into the mainstream," using a new process to foster collaborative learning across the supply chain.
The members of the Sustainable Food Lab understand that no economic system can remain viable that systematically destroys the social and ecological systems upon which it depends. How we organize the production and distribution of food could be considered humankind's first system. So it is fitting that it should also be the first of our global systems that we bring back into harmony with social and ecological reality.

This spirit of learning as discovery and embodying nature's patterns subtly infuses all the other innovations. When managers are committed to growing people in order to grow the enterprise or committed to utilizing conversation as the core process for change, their practices reflect insights into human nature -- our innate desire to grow as human beings and to be in relationships with one another.
Consistent With Nature
The first principle underlying our work on organizational learning is simply to develop a system of management consistent with nature -- human nature and the nature of the larger social and natural systems in which we always operate. Anthropologist Edward Hall calls the drive to learn the "most basic drive in the human species."What is this drive to learn other than our own innate personal quest to discover and embody nature's patterns in all aspects of our lives?
Many of the most important leaders in the coming decades will not be those whom we expect. A new order of things must be brought forward by a new order of leaders. It is no surprise that, wherever we see a new system of management starting to take root, we see leaders emerging from the periphery -- people who do not come from the traditional centers of power but from the cultural, economic and demographic periphery: women, the poor and the young.
There are as many ways to characterize the essence of work as there are people doing it: It is a system of management consistent with nature, human nature and the nature of larger living systems; it is working together in ways that realize our highest aspirations; it is being the change we seek to create. Or, as Marianne Knuth so beautifully says, it is staying connected to the being that never stopped being connected. G
RECOMMENDED READING LIST
If you liked The Fifth Discipline, you'll also like:
1. The Complexity Crisis by John L. Mariotti. Executives today face a crisis -- a crisis of complexity. As you seek to expand profits, a number of new products, procedures and systems are created that, unexpectedly, stifle your bottom line. To this problem, Mariotti has the solution: simplify. In this farreaching study, he shows corporate America that "keep it simple" is the way out of the Complexity Crisis.
2. The Definitive Drucker by Elizabeth Haas Edersheim. Considered the father of modern management, Peter Drucker spent the last 16 months of his life speaking about the world of business with Edersheim, a respected management thinker in her own right. This book provides his final thoughts about the development of modern business.
3. Know-How by Ram Charan. Legendary executive adviser Ram Charan has identified the skills that are required by today's business leaders, the personal traits that can help or interfere with these skills, and the cognitive traits that can improve them.

8 Soundview Executive Book SummariesŪ www.summary.com

