     __________________________________________________________________

           Title: The Christian's Secret of a Happy Life
      Creator(s): Smith, Hannah Whitall
   CCEL Subjects: All; Classic;
      LC Call no: BV4051
     LC Subjects:

                  Practical theology

                  Pastoral theology

                  Education

                  Training for the ordained minister
     __________________________________________________________________

THE CHRISTIAN'S SECRET OF A HAPPY LIFE

  By Hannah Whitall Smith

    As Published by Christian Witness Co.

     "One of the most inspiring and influential books we have ever read."
     --Dale Evans and Roy Rogers

     "IS YOUR LIFE ALL YOU WANT IT TO BE? Hannah Whitall Smith--Quaker,
     rebel, realist--faced life as she found it, and she found it good.
     She took her Bible promises literally, tested them, and found them
     true as tested steel. She stepped out of conjecture into certainty,
     and the shadows disappeared. Here she reveals the secret--how to
     make unhappiness and uncertainty give way to serenity and confidence
     in every day of your life."--from the Spire edition.

   Origial text document from the "Wesley Center for Applied Theology" at
   Northwest Nazarene College (Nampa, ID)
     __________________________________________________________________

Preface

   This is not a theological book. I frankly confess I have not been
   trained in theological schools, and do not understand their methods nor
   their terms. But the Lord has taught me experimentally and practically
   certain lessons out of his Word, which have greatly helped me in my
   Christian life, and have made it a very happy one. And I want to tell
   my secret, in the best way I can, in order that some others may be
   helped into a happy life also.

   I do not seek to change the theological views of a single individual. I
   dare say most of my readers know far more about theology than I do
   myself, and perhaps may discover abundance of what will seem to be
   theological mistakes. But let me ask that these may be overlooked, and
   that my reader will try, instead, to get at the experimental point of
   that which I have tried to say, and if that is practical and helpful,
   forgive the blundering way in which it is expressed. I have tried to
   reach the absolute truth which lies at the foundation of all "creeds"
   and "views," and to bring the soul into those personal relations with
   God which must exist alike in every form of religion, let the
   expression of them differ as they may.

   I have committed my book to the Lord, and have asked Him to counteract
   all in it that is wrong, and to let only that which is true find
   entrance into any heart. It is sent out in tender sympathy and yearning
   love for all the struggling, weary ones in the Church of Christ, and
   its message goes right from my heart to theirs. I have given the best I
   have, and could do no more. May the blessed Holy Spirit use it to teach
   some of my readers the true secret of a happy life!


    HANNAH WHITALL SMITH, GERMANTOWN, PENNSYLVANIA.
     __________________________________________________________________

    Chapter 1

  INTRODUCTORY

    GOD'S SIDE AND MAN'S SIDE

   In introducing this subject of the life and walk of faith, I desire, at
   the very outset, to clear away one misunderstanding which very commonly
   arises in reference to the teaching of it, and which effectually
   hinders a clear apprehension of such teaching. This misunderstanding
   comes from the fact that the two sides of the subject are rarely kept
   in view at the same time. People see distinctly the way in which one
   side is presented, and, dwelling exclusively upon this, without even a
   thought of any other, it is no wonder that distorted views of the whole
   matter are the legitimate consequence.

   Now there are two very decided and distinct sides to this subject, and,
   like all other subjects, it cannot be fully understood unless both of
   these sides are kept constantly in view. I refer, of course, to God's
   side and man's side; or, in other words, to God's part in the work of
   sanctification, and man's part. These are very distinct and even
   contrastive, but are not contradictory; though, to a cursory observer,
   they sometimes look so.

   This was very strikingly illustrated to me not long ago. There were two
   teachers of this higher Christian life holding meetings in the same
   place, at alternate hours. One spoke only of God's part in the work,
   and the other dwelt exclusively upon man's part. They were both in
   perfect sympathy with one another, and realized fully that they were
   each teaching different sides of the same great truth; and this also
   was understood by a large proportion of their hearers. But with some of
   the hearers it was different, and one lady said to me, in the greatest
   perplexity, "I cannot understand it at all. Here are two preachers
   undertaking to teach just the same truth, and yet to me they seem
   flatly to contradict one another." And I felt at the time that she
   expressed a puzzle which really causes a great deal of difficulty in
   the minds of many honest inquirers after this truth.

   Suppose two friends go to see some celebrated building, and return home
   to describe it. One has seen only the north side, and the other only
   the south. The first says, "The building was built in such a manner,
   and has such and such stories and ornaments." "Oh, no!" says the other,
   interrupting him, "you are altogether mistaken; I saw the building, and
   it was built in quite a different manner, and its ornaments and stories
   were so and so." A lively dispute would probably follow upon the truth
   of the respective descriptions, until the two friends discover that
   they have been describing different sides of the building, and then all
   is reconciled at once.

   I would like to state as clearly as I can what I judge to be the two
   distinct sides in this matter; and to show how the looking at one
   without seeing the other, will be sure to create wrong impressions and
   views of the truth.

   To state it in brief, I would just say that man's part is to trust and
   God's part is to work; and it can be seen at a glance how contrastive
   these two parts are, and yet not necessarily contradictory. I mean
   this. There is a certain work to be accomplished. We are to be
   delivered from the power of sin, and are to be made perfect in every
   good work to do the will of God. "Beholding as in a glass the glory of
   the Lord," we are to be actually "changed into the same image from
   glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord." We are to be
   transformed by the renewing of our minds, that we may prove what is
   that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. A real work is to be
   wrought in us and upon us. Besetting sins are to be conquered. Evil
   habits are to be overcome. Wrong dispositions and feelings are to be
   rooted out, and holy tempers and emotions are to be begotten. A
   positive transformation is to take place. So at least the Bible
   teaches. Now somebody must do this. Either we must do it for ourselves,
   or another must do it for us. We have most of us tried to do it for
   ourselves at first, and have grievously failed; then we discover from
   the Scriptures and from our own experience that it is a work we are
   utterly unable to do for ourselves, but that the Lord Jesus Christ has
   come on purpose to do it, and that He will do it for all who put
   themselves wholly into His hand, and trust Him to do it. Now under
   these circumstances, what is the part of the believer, and what is the
   part of the Lord? Plainly the believer can do nothing but trust; while
   the Lord, in whom he trusts, actually does the work intrusted to Him.
   Trusting and doing are certainly contrastive things, and often
   contradictory; but are they contradictory in this case? Manifestly not,
   because it is two different parties that are concerned. If we should
   say of one party in a transaction that he trusted his case to another,
   and yet attended to it himself, we should state a contradiction and an
   impossibility. But when we say of two parties in a transaction that one
   trusts the other to do something, and that that other goes to work and
   does it, we are making a statement that is perfectly simple and
   harmonious. When we say, therefore, that in this higher life, man's
   part is to trust, and that God does the thing intrusted to Him, we do
   not surely present any very difficult or puzzling problem.

   The preacher who is speaking on man's part in this matter cannot speak
   of anything but surrender and trust, because this is positively all the
   man can do. We all agree about this. And yet such preachers are
   constantly criticised as though, in saying this, they had meant to
   imply there was no other part, and that therefore nothing but trusting
   is done. And the cry goes out that this doctrine of faith does away
   with all realities, that souls are just told to trust, and that is the
   end of it, and they sit down thenceforward in a sort of religious
   easy-chair, dreaming away a life fruitless of any actual results. All
   this misapprehension arises, of course, from the fact that either the
   preacher has neglected to state, or the hearer has failed to hear, the
   other side of the matter; which is, that when we trust, the Lord works,
   and that a great deal is done, not by us, but by Him. Actual results
   are reached by our trusting, because our Lord undertakes the thing
   trusted to Him, and accomplishes it. We do not do anything, but He does
   it; and it is all the more effectually done because of this. The puzzle
   as to the preaching of faith disappears entirely as soon as this is
   clearly seen.

   On the other hand, the preacher who dwells on God's side of the
   question is criticised on a totally different ground. He does not speak
   of trust, for the Lord's part is not to trust, but to work. The Lord
   does the thing intrusted to Him. He disciplines and trains the soul by
   inward exercises and outward providences. He brings to bear all the
   resources of His wisdom and love upon the refining and purifying of
   that soul. He makes everything in the life and circumstances of such a
   one subservient to the one great purpose of making him grow in grace,
   and of conforming him, day by day and hour by hour, to the image of
   Christ. He carries him through a process of transformation, longer or
   shorter, as his peculiar case may require, making actual and
   experimental the results for which the soul has trusted. We have dared,
   for instance, according to the command in Rom. 6:11, by faith to reckon
   ourselves "dead unto sin." The Lord makes this a reality, and leads us
   to victory over self, by the daily and hourly discipline of His
   providences. Our reckoning is available only because God thus makes it
   real. And yet the preacher who dwells upon this practical side of the
   matter, and tells of God's processes for making faith's reckonings
   experimental realities, is accused of contradicting the preaching of
   faith altogether, and of declaring only a process of gradual
   sanctification by works, and of setting before the soul an impossible
   and hopeless task.

   Now, sanctification is both a sudden step of faith, and also a gradual
   process of works. It is a step as far as we are concerned; it is a
   process as to God's part. By a step of faith we get into Christ; by a
   process we are made to grow up unto Him in all things. By a step of
   faith we put ourselves into the hands of the Divine Potter; by a
   gradual process He makes us into a vessel unto His own honor, meet for
   His use, and prepared to every good work.

   To illustrate all this: suppose I were to be describing to a person,
   who was entirely ignorant of the subject, the way in which a lump of
   clay is made into a beautiful vessel. I tell him first the part of the
   clay in the matter, and all I can say about this is, that the clay is
   put into the potter's hands, and then lies passive there, submitting
   itself to all the turnings and overturnings of the potter's hands upon
   it. There is really nothing else to be said about the clay's part. But
   could my hearer argue from this that nothing else is done, because I
   say that this is all the clay can do? If he is an intelligent hearer,
   he will not dream of doing so, but will say, "I understand. This is
   what the clay must do; but what must the potter do?" "Ah," I answer,
   "now we come to the important part. The potter takes the clay thus
   abandoned to his working, and begins to mould and fashion it according
   to his own will. He kneads and works it, he tears it apart and presses
   it together again, he wets it and then suffers it to dry. Sometimes he
   works at it for hours together, sometimes he lays it aside for days and
   does not touch it. And then, when by all these processes he has made it
   perfectly pliable in his hands, he proceeds to make it up into the
   vessel he has purposed. He turns it upon the wheel, planes it and
   smooths it, and dries it in the sun, bakes it in the oven, and finally
   turns it out of his workshop, a vessel to his honor and fit for his
   use."

   Will my hearer be likely now to say that I am contradicting myself;
   that a little while ago I had said the clay had nothing to do but lie
   passive in the potter's hands, and that now I am putting upon it a
   great work which it is not able to perform; and that to make itself
   into such a vessel is an impossible and hopeless undertaking? Surely
   not. For he will see that, while before I was speaking of the clay's
   part in the matter, I am now speaking of the potter's part, and that
   these two are necessarily contrastive, but not in the least
   contradictory, and that the clay is not expected to do the potter's
   work, but only to yield itself up to his working.

   Nothing, it seems to me, could be clearer than the perfect harmony
   between these two apparently contradictory sorts of teaching on this
   subject. What can be said about man's part in this great work, but that
   he must continually surrender himself and continually trust?

   But when we come to God's side of the question, what is there that may
   not be said as to the manifold and wonderful ways in which He
   accomplishes the work intrusted to Him? It is here that the growing
   comes in. The lump of clay would never grow into a beautiful vessel if
   it stayed in the clay-pit for thousands of years. But once put into the
   hands of a skilful potter, and, under his fashioning, it grows rapidly
   into a vessel to his honor. And so the soul, abandoned to the working
   of the Heavenly Potter, is changed rapidly from glory to glory into the
   image of the Lord by His Spirit.

   Having, therefore, taken the step of faith by which you have put
   yourself wholly and absolutely into His hands, you must now expect Him
   to begin to work. His way of accomplishing that which you have
   intrusted to Him may be different from your way. But He knows, and you
   must be satisfied.

   I knew a lady who had entered into this life of faith with a great
   outpouring of the Spirit, and a wonderful flood of light and joy. She
   supposed, of course, this was a preparation for some great service, and
   expected to be put forth immediately into the Lord's harvest field.
   Instead of this, almost at once her husband lost all his money, and she
   was shut up in her own house, to attend to all sorts of domestic
   duties, with no time or strength left for any Gospel work at all. She
   accepted the discipline, and yielded herself up as heartily to sweep,
   and dust, and bake, and sew, as she would have done to preach, or pray
   or write for the Lord. And the result was that through this very
   training He made her into a vessel "meet for the Master's use, and
   prepared unto every good work."

   Another lady, who had entered this life of faith under similar
   circumstances of wondrous blessing, and who also expected to be sent
   out to do some great work, was shut up with two peevish invalid nieces,
   to nurse, and humor, and amuse them all day long. Unlike the first
   lady, this one did not accept the training, but chafed and fretted, and
   finally rebelled, lost all her blessing, and went back into a state of
   sad coldness and misery. She had understood her part of trusting to
   begin with, but not understanding the divine process of accomplishing
   that for which she had trusted, she took herself out of the hands of
   the Heavenly Potter, and the vessel was marred on the wheel.

   I believe many a vessel has been similarly marred by a want of
   understanding these things. The maturity of Christian experience cannot
   be reached in a moment, but is the result of the work of God's Holy
   Spirit, who, by His energizing and transforming power, causes us to
   grow up into Christ in all things. And we cannot hope to reach this
   maturity in any other way than by yielding ourselves up utterly and
   willingly to His mighty working. But the sanctification the Scriptures
   urge as a present experience upon all believers does not consist in
   maturity of growth, but in purity of heart, and this may be as complete
   in the babe in Christ as in the veteran believer.

   The lump of clay, from the moment it comes under the transforming hand
   of the potter, is, during each day and each hour of the process, just
   what the potter wants it to be at that hour or on that day, and
   therefore pleases him. But it is very far from being matured into the
   vessel he intends in the future to make it.

   The little babe may be all that a babe could be, or ought to be, and
   may therefore perfectly please its mother, and yet it is very far from
   being what that mother would wish it to be when the years of maturity
   shall come.

   The apple in June is a perfect apple for June. It is the best apple
   that June can produce. But it is very different from the apple in
   October, which is a perfected apple.

   God's works are perfect in every stage of their growth. Man's works are
   never perfect until they are in every respect complete.

   All that we claim then in this life of sanctification is, that by a
   step of faith we put ourselves into the hands of the Lord, for Him to
   work in us all the good pleasure of His will; and that by a continuous
   exercise of faith we keep ourselves there. This is our part in the
   matter. And when we do it, and while we do it, we are, in the Scripture
   sense, truly pleasing to God, although it may require years of training
   and discipline to mature us into a vessel that shall be in all respects
   to His honor, and fitted to every good work.

   Our part is the trusting, it is His to accomplish the results. And when
   we do our part, He never fails to do His, for no one ever trusted in
   the Lord and was confounded. Do not be afraid, then, that if you trust,
   or tell others to trust, the matter will end there. Trust is only the
   beginning and the continual foundation; when we trust, the Lord works,
   and His work is the important part of the whole matter. And this
   explains that apparent paradox which puzzles so many. They say, "In one
   breath you tell us to do nothing but trust, and in the next you tell us
   to do impossible things. How can you reconcile such contradictory
   statements?" They are to be reconciled just as we reconcile the
   statements concerning a saw in a carpenter's shop, when we say at one
   moment that the saw has sawn asunder a log, and the next moment declare
   that the carpenter has done it. The saw is the instrument used, the
   power that uses it is the carpenter's. And so we, yielding ourselves
   unto God, and our members as instruments of righteousness unto Him,
   find that He works in us to will and to do of His good pleasure; and we
   can say with Paul, "I labored; yet not I, but the grace of God which
   was with me." For we are to be His workmanship, not our own. (Eph.
   2:10.) And in fact, when we come to look at it, only God, who created
   us at first, can re-create us, for He alone understands the "work of
   His own hands." All efforts after self-creating, result in the marring
   of the vessel, and no soul can ever reach its highest fulfillment
   except through the working of Him who "worketh all things after the
   counsel of His own will."

   In this book I shall of course dwell mostly upon man's side in the
   matter, as I am writing for man, and in the hope of teaching believers
   how to fulfil their part of the great work. But I wish it to be
   distinctly understood all through, that unless I believed with all my
   heart in God's effectual working on His side, not one word of this book
   would ever have been written.
     __________________________________________________________________

    Chapter 2

  THE SCRIPTURALNESS OF THIS LIFE

   When I approach this subject of the true Christian life, that life
   which is hid with Christ in God, so many thoughts struggle for
   utterance that I am almost speechless. Where shall I begin? What is the
   most important thing to say? How shall I make people read and believe?
   The subject is so glorious, and human words seem so powerless! But
   something I am impelled to say. The secret must be told. For it is one
   concerning that victory which overcometh the world, that promised
   deliverance from all our enemies, for which every child of God longs
   and prays, but which seems so often and so generally to elude their
   grasp. May God grant me so to tell it, that every believer to whom this
   book shall come, may have his eyes opened to see the truth as it is in
   Jesus, and may be enabled to enter into possession of this glorious
   life for himself.

   For sure I am that every converted soul longs for victory and rest, and
   nearly every one feels instinctively, at times, that they are his
   birthright. Can you not remember, some of you, the shout of triumph
   your souls gave when you first became acquainted with the Lord Jesus,
   and had a glimpse of His mighty saving power? How sure you were of
   victory then! How easy it seemed, to be more than conquerors, through
   Him that loved you. Under the leadership of a Captain who had never
   been foiled in battle, how could you dream of defeat? And yet, to many
   of you, how different has been your real experience. The victories have
   been but few and fleeting, the defeats many and disastrous. You have
   not lived as you feel children of God ought to live. There has been a
   resting in a clear understanding of doctrinal truth, without pressing
   after the power and life thereof. There has been a rejoicing in the
   knowledge of things testified of in the Scriptures, without a living
   realization of the things themselves, consciously felt in the soul.
   Christ is believed in, talked about, and served, but He is not known as
   the soul's actual and very life, abiding there forever, and revealing
   Himself there continually in His beauty. You have found Jesus as your
   Saviour and your Master, and you have tried to serve Him and advance
   the cause of His kingdom. You have carefully studied the Holy
   Scriptures and have gathered much precious truth therefrom, which you
   have endeavored faithfully to practise.

   But notwithstanding all your knowledge and all your activities in the
   service of the Lord, your souls are secretly starving, and you cry out
   again and again for that bread and water of life which you saw promised
   in the Scriptures to all believers. In the very depths of your hearts
   you know that your experience is not a Scriptural experience; that, as
   an old writer says, your religion is "but a talk to what the early
   Christians enjoyed, possessed, and lived in." And your souls have sunk
   within you, as day after day, and year after year, your early visions
   of triumph have seemed to grow more and more dim, and you have been
   forced to settle down to the conviction that the best you can expect
   from your religion is a life of alternate failure and victory; one hour
   sinning, and the next repenting; and beginning again, only to fail
   again, and again to repent.

   But is this all? Had the Lord Jesus only this in His mind when He laid
   down His precious life to deliver you from your sore and cruel bondage
   to sin? Did He propose to Himself only this partial deliverance? Did He
   intend to leave you thus struggling along under a weary consciousness
   of defeat and discouragement? Did He fear that a continuous victory
   would dishonor Him, and bring reproach on His name? When all those
   declarations were made concerning His coming, and the work He was to
   accomplish, did they mean only this that you have experienced? Was
   there a hidden reserve in each promise that was meant to deprive it of
   its complete fulfillment? Did "delivering us out of the hands of our
   enemies" mean only a few of them? Did "enabling us always to triumph"
   mean only sometimes; or being "more than conquerors through Him that
   love us" mean constant defeat and failure? No, no, a thousand times no!
   God is able to save unto the uttermost, and He means to do it. His
   promise, confirmed by His oath, was that "He would grant unto us, that
   we, being delivered out of the hand of our enemies, might serve Him
   without fear, in holiness and righteousness before Him, all the days of
   our life." It is a mighty work to do, but our Deliverer is able to do
   it. He came to destroy the works of the devil, and dare we dream for a
   moment that He is not able or not willing to accomplish His own
   purposes?

   In the very outset, then, settle down on this one thing, that the Lord
   is able to save you fully, now, in this life, from the power and
   dominion of sin, and to deliver you altogether out of the hands of your
   enemies. If you do not think He is, search your Bible, and collect
   together every announcement or declaration concerning the purposes and
   object of His death on the cross. You will be astonished to find how
   full they are. Everywhere and always His work is said to be, to deliver
   us from our sins, from our bondage, from our defilement; and not a hint
   is given anywhere, that this deliverance was to be only the limited and
   partial one with which the Church so continually tries to be satisfied.

   Let me give you a few texts on this subject. When the angel of the Lord
   appeared unto Joseph in a dream, and announced the coming birth of the
   Saviour, he said, "And thou shalt call His name Jesus, for He shall
   save His people from their sins."

   When Zacharias was "filled with the Holy Ghost" at the birth of his
   son, and "prophesied," he declared that God had visited His people in
   order to fulfil the promise and the oath He had made them, which
   promise was, "That He would grant unto us, that we, being delivered out
   of the hands of our enemies, might serve Him without fear, in holiness
   and righteousness before Him, all the days of our life."

   When Peter was preaching in the porch of the Temple to the wondering
   Jews, he said, "Unto you first, God, having raised up His Son Jesus,
   sent Him to bless you in turning away every one of you from his
   iniquities."

   When Paul was telling out to the Ephesian church the wondrous truth
   that Christ had loved them so much as to give Himself for them, he went
   on to declare, that His purpose in thus doing was, "that He might
   sanctify and cleanse it by the washing of water by the word, that He
   might present it to Himself a glorious church, not having spot or
   wrinkle, or any such thing; but that it should be holy and without
   blemish."

   When Paul was seeking to instruct Titus, his own son after the common
   faith, concerning the grace of God, he declared that the object of that
   grace was to teach us "that denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we
   should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world"; and
   adds, as the reason of this, that Christ "gave Himself for us that He
   might redeem us from all iniquity, and purify us unto Himself a
   peculiar people, zealous of good works."

   When Peter was urging upon the Christians, to whom he was writing, a
   holy and Christ-like walk, he tells them that "even hereunto were ye
   called because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that
   ye should follow His steps: who did no sin, neither was guile found in
   His mouth"; and adds, "who His own self bare our sins in His own body
   on the tree, that we, being dead to sins, should live unto
   righteousness; by whose stripes ye were healed."

   When Paul was contrasting in the Ephesians the walk suitable for a
   Christian, with the walk of an unbeliever, he sets before them the
   truth in Jesus as being this, "that ye put off concerning the former
   conversation the old man, which is corrupt according to the deceitful
   lusts; and be renewed in the spirit of your mind; and that ye put on
   the new man, which after God is created in righteousness and true
   holiness."

   And when, in Romans 6, he was answering forever the question as to
   continuing in sin, and showing how utterly foreign it was to the whole
   spirit and aim of the salvation of Jesus, he brings up the fact of our
   judicial death and resurrection with Christ as an unanswerable argument
   for our practical deliverance from it, and says, "God forbid. How shall
   we, that are dead to sin, live any longer therein? Know ye not that so
   many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ were baptized into His
   death? Therefore we are buried with Him by baptism into death; that
   like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father,
   even so we also should walk in newness of life." And adds, "Knowing
   this, that our old man is crucified with Him, that the body of sin
   might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin."

   Dear Christians, will you receive the testimony of Scripture on this
   matter? The same questions that troubled the Church in Paul's day are
   troubling it now: first, "Shall we continue in sin that grace may
   abound?" And second, "Do we then make void the law through faith?"
   Shall not our answer to these be Paul's emphatic "God forbid"; and his
   triumphant assertions that instead of making it void "we establish the
   law"; and that "what the law could not do, in that it was weak through
   the flesh, God sending His own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and
   for sin, condemned sin in the flesh: that the righteousness of the law
   might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the
   Spirit"?

   Can we suppose for a moment that the holy God, who hates sin in the
   sinner, is willing to tolerate it in the Christian, and that He has
   even arranged the plan of salvation in such a way as to make it
   impossible for those who are saved from the guilt of sin to find
   deliverance from its power?

   As Dr. Chalmers well says, "Sin is that scandal which must be rooted
   out from the great spiritual household over which the Divinity rejoices
   . . . Strange administration, indeed, for sin to be so hateful to God
   as to lay all who had incurred it under death, and yet when readmitted
   into life that sin should be permitted; and that what was before the
   object of destroying vengeance, should now become the object of an
   upheld and protected toleration. Now that the penalty is taken off,
   think you that it is possible the unchangeable God has so given up His
   antipathy to sin, as that man, ruined and redeemed man, may now
   perseveringly indulge under the new arrangement in that which under the
   old destroyed him? Does not the God who loved righteousness and hated
   iniquity six thousand years ago, bear the same love to righteousness
   and hatred to iniquity still? . . . I now breathe the air of
   loving-kindness from Heaven, and can walk before God in peace and
   graciousness; shall I again attempt the incompatible alliance of two
   principles so adverse as that of an approving God and a persevering
   sinner? How shall we, recovered from so awful a catastrophe, continue
   that which first involved us in it? The cross of Christ, by the same
   mighty and decisive stroke wherewith it moved the curse of sin away
   from us, also surely moves away the power and the love of it from over
   us."

   And not Dr. Chalmers only, but many other holy men of his generation
   and of our own, as well as of generations long past, have united in
   declaring that the redemption accomplished for us by our Lord Jesus
   Christ on the cross at Calvary is a redemption from the power of sin as
   well as from its guilt, and that He is able to save to the uttermost
   all who come unto God by Him.

   A quaint old divine of the seventeenth century says: "There is nothing
   so contrary to God as sin, and God will not suffer sin always to rule
   his masterpiece, man. When we consider the infiniteness of God's power
   for destroying that which is contrary to Him, who can believe that the
   devil must always stand and prevail? I believe it is inconsistent and
   disagreeable with true faith for people to be Christians, and yet to
   believe that Christ, the eternal Son of God, to whom all power in
   heaven and earth is given, will suffer sin and the devil to have
   dominion over them.

   "But you will say no man by all the power he hath can redeem himself,
   and no man can live without sin. We will say, Amen, to it. But if men
   tell us, that when God's power comes to help us and to redeem us out of
   sin, that it cannot be effected, then this doctrine we cannot away
   with; nor I hope you neither.

   "Would you approve of it, if I should tell you that God puts forth His
   power to do such a thing, but the devil hinders Him? That it is
   impossible for God to do it because the devil does not like it? That it
   is impossible that any one should be free from sin because the devil
   hath got such a power in them that God cannot cast him out? This is
   lamentable doctrine, yet hath not this been preached? It doth in plain
   terms say, though God doth interpose His power, it is impossible,
   because the devil hath so rooted sin in the nature of man. Is not man
   God's creature, and cannot He new make him, and cast sin out of him? If
   you say sin is deeply rooted in man, I say so, too, yet not so deeply
   rooted but Christ Jesus hath entered so deeply into the root of the
   nature of man that He hath received power to destroy the devil and his
   works, and to recover and redeem man into righteousness and holiness.
   Or else it is false that `He is able to save to the uttermost all that
   come unto God by Him.' We must throw away the Bible, if we say that it
   is impossible for God to deliver man out of sin.

   "We know," he continues, "when our friends are in captivity, as in
   Turkey, or elsewhere, we pay our money for their redemption; but we
   will not pay our money if they be kept in their fetters still. Would
   not any one think himself cheated to pay so much money for their
   redemption, and the bargain be made so that he shall be said to be
   redeemed, and be called a redeemed captive, but he must wear his
   fetters still? How long? As long as he hath a day to live.

   "This is for bodies, but now I am speaking of souls. Christ must be
   made to me redemption, and rescue me from captivity. Am I a prisoner
   any where? Yes, verily, verily, he that committeth sin, saith Christ,
   he is a servant of sin, he is a slave of sin. If thou hast sinned, thou
   art a slave, a captive that must be redeemed out of captivity. Who will
   pay a price for me? I am poor; I have nothing; I cannot redeem myself;
   who will pay a price for me? There is One come who hath paid a price
   for me. That is well; that is good news, then I hope I shall come out
   of my captivity. What is His name, is He called a Redeemer? So, then, I
   do expect the benefit of my redemption, and that I shall go out of my
   captivity. No, say they, you must abide in sin as long as you live.
   What! must we never be delivered? Must this crooked heart and perverse
   will always remain? Must I be a believer, and yet have no faith that
   reacheth to sanctification and holy living? Is there no mastery to be
   had, no getting victory over sin? Must it prevail over me as long as I
   live? What sort of a Redeemer, then, is this, or what benefit have I in
   this life, of my redemption?"

   Similar extracts might be quoted from Marshall, Romaine, and many
   others, to show that this doctrine is no new one in the Church, however
   much it may have been lost sight of by the present generation of
   believers. It is the same old story that has filled with songs of
   triumph the daily lives of many saints of God throughout all ages; and
   is now afresh being sounded forth to the unspeakable joy of weary and
   burdened souls.

   Do not reject it, then, dear reader, until you have prayerfully
   searched the Scriptures to see whether these things be indeed so. Ask
   God to open the eyes of your understanding by His Spirit, that you may
   "know what is the exceeding greatness of His power to usward who
   believe, according to the working of His mighty power, which He wrought
   in Christ, when He raised Him from the dead, and set Him at His own
   right hand in the heavenly places." And when you have begun to have
   some faint glimpses of this power, learn to look away utterly from your
   own weakness, and, putting your case into His hands, trust Him to
   deliver you.

   In Psalms 8:6, we are told that God made man to "have dominion over the
   works of His hand." The fulfillment of this is declared in 2 Cor. 2,
   where the apostle cries, "Thanks be unto God which always causeth us to
   triumph in Christ." If the maker of a machine should declare that he
   had made it to accomplish a certain purpose, and if upon trial it
   should be found incapable of accomplishing that purpose, we would all
   say of that maker that he was a fraud.

   Surely then we will not dare to think that it is impossible for the
   creature whom God has made, to accomplish the declared object for which
   he was created. Especially when the Scriptures are so full of the
   assertions that Christ has made it possible.

   The only thing that can hinder is the creature's own failure to work in
   harmony with the plans of his Creator, and if this want of harmony can
   be removed, then God can work. Christ came to bring about an atonement
   between God and man, which should make it possible for God thus to work
   in man to will and to do of His good pleasure. Therefore we may be of
   good courage; for the work Christ has undertaken He is surely able and
   willing to perform. Let us then "walk in the steps of that faith of our
   father Abraham," who "staggered not at the promise of God through
   unbelief; but was strong in faith, giving glory to God; being fully
   persuaded that what He had promised, He was able also to perform."
     __________________________________________________________________

    Chapter 3

  THE LIFE DEFINED

   In my last chapter I tried to settle the question as to the
   scripturalness of the experience sometimes called the Higher Christian
   Life, but which to my own mind is best described in the words, the
   "life hid with Christ in God." I shall now, therefore, consider it as a
   settled point that the Scriptures do set before the believer in the
   Lord Jesus a life of abiding rest and of continual victory, which is
   very far beyond the ordinary line of Christian experience; and that in
   the Bible we have presented to us a Saviour able to save us from the
   power of our sins, as really as He saves us from their guilt.

   The point to be next considered is, as to what this hidden life
   consists in, and how it differs from every other sort of Christian
   experience.

   And as to this, it is simply letting the Lord carry our burdens and
   manage our affairs for us, instead of trying to do it ourselves.

   Most Christians are like a man who was toiling along the road, bending
   under a heavy burden, when a wagon overtook him, and the driver kindly
   offered to help him on his journey. He joyfully accepted the offer, but
   when seated, continued to bend beneath his burden, which he still kept
   on his shoulders. "Why do you not lay down your burden?" asked the
   kind-hearted driver. "Oh!" replied the man, "I feel that it is almost
   too much to ask you to carry me, and I could not think of letting you
   carry my burden too." And so Christians, who have given themselves into
   the care and keeping of the Lord Jesus, still continue to bend beneath
   the weight of their burden, and often go weary and heavy-laden
   throughout the whole length of their journey.

   When I speak of burdens, I mean everything that troubles us, whether
   spiritual or temporal.

   I mean, first of all, ourselves. The greatest burden we have to carry
   in life is self. The most difficult thing we have to manage is self.
   Our own daily living, our frames and feelings, our especial weaknesses
   and temptations, and our peculiar temperaments, our inward affairs of
   every kind, these are the things that perplex and worry us more than
   anything else, and that bring us oftenest into bondage and darkness. In
   laying off your burdens, therefore, the first one you must get rid of
   is yourself. You must hand yourself and all your inward experiences,
   your temptations, your temperament, your frames and feelings, all over
   into the care and keeping of your God, and leave them there. He made
   you, and therefore He understands you and knows how to manage you, and
   you must trust Him to do it. Say to Him, "Here, Lord, I abandon myself
   to thee. I have tried in every way I could think of to manage myself,
   and to make myself what I know I ought to be, but have always failed.
   Now I give it up to thee. Do thou take entire possession of me. Work in
   me all the good pleasure of thy will. Mould and fashion me into such a
   vessel as seemeth good to thee. I leave myself in thy hands, and I
   believe thou wilt, according to thy promise, make me into a vessel unto
   thine honor, `sanctified, and meet for the Master's use, and prepared
   unto every good work.'" And here you must rest, trusting yourself thus
   to Him continually and absolutely.

   Next, you must lay off every other burden,--your health, your
   reputation, your Christian work, your houses, your children, your
   business, your servants; everything, in short, that concerns you,
   whether inward or outward.

   Christians always commit the keeping of their souls for eternity to the
   Lord, because they know, without a shadow of a doubt, that they cannot
   keep these themselves. But the things of this present life they take
   into their own keeping, and try to carry on their own shoulders, with
   the perhaps unconfessed feeling that it is a great deal to ask of the
   Lord to carry them, and that they cannot think of asking Him to carry
   their burdens too.

   I knew a Christian lady who had a very heavy temporal burden. It took
   away her sleep and her appetite, and there was danger of her health
   breaking down under it. One day, when it seemed especially heavy, she
   noticed lying on the table near her a little tract called "Hannah's
   Faith." Attracted by the title, she picked it up and began to read it,
   little knowing, however, that it was to create a revolution in her
   whole experience. The story was of a poor woman who had been carried
   triumphantly through a life of unusual sorrow. She was giving the
   history of her life to a kind visitor on one occasion, and at the close
   the visitor said, feelingly, "O Hannah, I do not see how you could bear
   so much sorrow!" "I did not bear it," was the quick reply; "the Lord
   bore it for me." "Yes," said the visitor "that is the right way. You
   must take your troubles to the Lord." "Yes," replied Hannah, "but we
   must do more than that; we must leave them there. Most people," she
   continued, "take their burdens to Him, but they bring them away with
   them again, and are just as worried and unhappy as ever. But I take
   mine, and I leave them with Him, and come away and forget them. And if
   the worry comes back, I take it to Him again; I do this over and over,
   until at last I just forget that I have any worries, and am at perfect
   rest."

   My friend was very much struck with this plan and resolved to try it.
   The circumstances of her life she could not alter, but she took them to
   the Lord, and handed them over into His management; and then she
   believed that He took it, and she left all the responsibility and the
   worry and anxiety with Him. As often as the anxieties returned she took
   them back; and the result was that, although the circumstances remained
   unchanged, her soul was kept in perfect peace in the midst of them. She
   felt that she had found out a blessed secret, and from that time she
   tried never again to carry her own burdens, nor to manage anything for
   herself.

   And the secret she found so effectual in her outward affairs, she found
   to be still more effectual in her inward ones, which were in truth even
   more utterly unmanageable. She abandoned her whole self to the Lord,
   with all that she was and all that she had, and, believing that He took
   that which she had committed to Him, she ceased to fret and worry, and
   her life became all sunshine in the gladness of belonging to Him. And
   this was the Higher Christian Life! It was a very simple secret she
   found out. Only this, that it was possible to obey God's commandment
   contained in those words, "Be careful for nothing, but in everything by
   prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made
   known unto God"; and that, in obeying it, the result would inevitably
   be, according to the promise, that the "peace of God which passeth all
   understanding shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus."

   There are many other things to be said about this life hid with Christ
   in God, many details as to what the Lord Jesus does for those who thus
   abandon themselves to Him. But the gist of the whole matter is here
   stated, and the soul that has got hold of this secret has found the key
   that will unlock the whole treasure-house of God.

   And now I do trust that I have made you hunger for this blessed life.
   Would you not like to get rid of your burdens? Do you not long to hand
   over the management of your unmanageable self into the hands of One who
   is able to manage you? Are you not tired and weary, and does not the
   rest I speak of look sweet to you?

   Do you recollect the delicious sense of rest with which you have
   sometimes gone to bed at night, after a day of great exertion and
   weariness? How delightful was the sensation of relaxing every muscle,
   and letting your body go in a perfect abandonment of ease and comfort.
   The strain of the day had ceased for a few hours at least, and the work
   of the day had been thrown off. You no longer had to hold up an aching
   head or a weary back. You trusted yourself to the bed in an absolute
   confidence, and it held you up, without effort, or strain, or even
   thought on your part. You rested.

   But suppose you had doubted the strength or the stability of your bed,
   and had dreaded each moment to find it giving away beneath you and
   landing you on the floor; could you have rested then? Would not every
   muscle have been strained in a fruitless effort to hold yourself up,
   and would not the weariness have been greater than not to have gone to
   bed at all?

   Let this analogy teach you what it means to rest in the Lord. Let your
   souls lie down upon His sweet will, as your bodies lie down in your
   beds at night. Relax every strain and lay off every burden. Let
   yourselves go in perfect abandonment of ease and comfort, sure that
   when He holds you up you are perfectly safe.

   Your part is simply to rest. His part is to sustain you, and He cannot
   fail.

   Or take another analogy, which our Lord Himself has abundantly
   sanctioned, that of the child-life. For "Jesus called a little child
   unto Him, and set him in the midst of them, and said, Verily I say unto
   you, Except ye be converted and become as little children, ye shall not
   enter the kingdom of Heaven."

   Now, what are the characteristics of a little child and how does he
   live? He lives by faith, and his chiefest characteristic is
   thoughtlessness. His life is one long trust from year's end to year's
   end. He trusts his parents, he trusts his caretakers, he trusts his
   teachers, he even trusts people often who are utterly unworthy of
   trust, because of the confidingness of his nature. And his trust is
   abundantly answered. He provides nothing for himself, and yet
   everything is provided. He takes no thought for the morrow, and forms
   no plans, and yet all his life is planned out for him, and he finds his
   paths made ready, opening out to him as he comes to them day by day,
   and hour by hour. He goes in and out of his father's house with an
   unspeakable ease and abandonment, enjoying all the good things it
   contains, without having spent a penny in procuring them. Pestilence
   may walk through the streets of his city, but he regards it not. Famine
   and fire and war may rage around him, but under his father's tender
   care he abides in utter unconcern and perfect rest. He lives in the
   present moment, and receives his life without question as it comes to
   him day by day from his father's hands.

   I was visiting once in a wealthy house, where there was one only
   adopted child, upon whom was lavished all the love and tenderness and
   care that human hearts could bestow or human means procure. And as I
   watched that child running in and out day by day, free and
   light-hearted, with the happy carelessness of childhood, I thought what
   a picture it was of our wonderful position as children in the house of
   our Heavenly Father. And I said to myself, "If nothing could so grieve
   and wound the loving hearts around her, as to see this little child
   beginning to be worried or anxious about herself in any way, about
   whether her food and clothes would be provided for her, or how she was
   to get her education or her future support, how much more must the
   great, loving heart of our God and Father be grieved and wounded at
   seeing His children taking so much anxious care and thought!" And I
   understood why it was that our Lord had said to us so emphatically,
   "Take no thought for yourselves."

   Who is the best cared for in every household? Is it not the little
   children? And does not the least of all, the helpless baby, receive the
   largest share? As a late writer has said, the baby "toils not, neither
   does he spin; and yet he is fed, and clothed, and loved, and rejoiced
   in," and none so much as he.

   This life of faith, then, about which I am writing, consists in just
   this; being a child in the Father's house. And when this is said,
   enough is said to transform every weary, burdened life into one of
   blessedness and rest.

   Let the ways of childish confidence and freedom from care, which so
   please you and win your hearts in your own little ones, teach you what
   should be your ways with God; and leaving yourselves in His hands,
   learn to be literally "careful for nothing"; and you shall find it to
   be a fact that "the peace of God which passeth all understanding shall
   keep (as in a garrison) your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus."
   Notice the word "nothing" in the above passage, as covering all
   possible grounds for anxiety, both inward and outward. We are
   continually tempted to think it is our duty to be anxious about some
   things. Perhaps our thought will be, "Oh, yes, it is quite right to
   give up all anxiety in a general way; and in spiritual matters of
   course anxiety is wrong; but there are things about which it would be a
   sin not to be anxious; about our children, for instance, or those we
   love, or about our church affairs and the cause of truth, or about our
   business matters. It would show a great want of right feeling not to be
   anxious about such things as these." Or else our thoughts take the
   other tack, and we say to ourselves, "Yes, it is quite right to commit
   our loved ones and all our outward affairs to the Lord, but when it
   comes to our inward lives, our religious experiences, our temptations,
   our besetting sins, our growth in grace, and all such things, these we
   ought to be anxious about; for if we are not, they will be sure to be
   neglected."

   To such suggestions, and to all similar ones, the answer is found in
   our text,--

   "In NOTHING be anxious."

   In Matt. 6:25-34, our Lord illustrates this being without anxiety, by
   telling us to behold the fowls of the air and the lilies of the field,
   as examples of the sort of life He would have us live. As the birds
   rejoice in the care of their God and are fed, and as the lilies grow in
   His sunlight, so must we, without anxiety, and without fear. Let the
   sparrows speak to us:--


   "I am only tiny sparrow,

   A bird of low degree;

   My life is of little value,

   But the dear Lord cares for me.


   "I have no barn nor storehouse,

   I neither sow nor reap;

   God gives me a sparrow's portion,

   But never a seed to keep.


   "I know there are many sparrows;

   All over the world they are found;

   But our heavenly Father knoweth

   When one of us falls to the ground.


   "Though small, we are never forgotten;

   Though weak, we are never afraid;

   For we know the dear Lord keepeth

   The life of the creatures he made.


   "I fly through the thickest forest,

   I light on many a spray;

   I have no chart nor compass,

   But I never lose my way.


   "And I fold my wing at twilight

   Wherever I happen to be;

   For the Father is always watching,

   And no harm will come to me.


   "I am only a little sparrow,

   A bird of low degree,

   But I know the Father loves me;

   Have you less faith than we?"
     __________________________________________________________________

    Chapter 4

  HOW TO ENTER IN

   Having tried to settle the question as to the scripturalness of the
   experience of this life of full trust, and having also shown a little
   of what it is; the next point is as to how it is to be reached and
   realized.

   And first, I would say that this blessed life must not be looked upon
   in any sense as an attainment but as an obtainment. We cannot earn it,
   we cannot climb up to it, we cannot win it; we can do nothing but ask
   for it and receive it. It is the gift of God in Christ Jesus. And where
   a thing is a gift, the only course left for the receiver is to take it
   and thank the giver. We never say of a gift, "See to what I have
   attained," and boast of our skill and wisdom in having attained it; but
   we say, "See what has been given me," and boast of the love and wealth
   and generosity of the giver. And everything in our salvation is a gift.
   From beginning to end, God is the giver and we are the receivers; and
   it is not to those who do great things, but to those who "receive
   abundance of grace, and of the gift of righteousness," that the richest
   promises are made.

   In order, therefore, to enter into a realized experience of this
   interior life, the soul must be in a receptive attitude, fully
   recognizing the fact that it is to be God's gift in Christ Jesus, and
   that it cannot be gained by any efforts or works of our own. This will
   simplify the matter exceedingly; and the only thing left to be
   considered then will be to discover upon whom God bestows this gift,
   and how they are to receive it. And to this I would answer in short,
   that He bestows it only upon the fully consecrated soul, and that it is
   to be received by faith.

   Consecration is the first thing. Not in any legal sense, not in order
   to purchase or deserve the blessing, but to remove the difficulties out
   of the way and make it possible for God to bestow it. In order for a
   lump of clay to be made into a beautiful vessel, it must be entirely
   abandoned to the potter, and must lie passive in his hands. And in
   order for a soul to be made into a vessel unto God's honor, "sanctified
   and meet for the Master's use, and prepared unto every good work," it
   must be entirely abandoned to Him, and must lie passive in His hands.
   This is manifest at the first glance.

   I was once trying to explain to a physician, who had charge of a large
   hospital, what consecration meant, and its necessity, but he seemed
   unable to understand. At last I said to him, "Suppose, in going your
   rounds among your patients, you should meet with one man who entreated
   you earnestly to take his case under your especial care in order to
   cure him, but who should at the same time refuse to tell you all the
   symptoms, or to take all your prescribed remedies; and should say to
   you, `I am quite willing to follow your directions as to certain
   things, because they commend themselves to my mind as good, but in
   other matters I prefer judging for myself and following my own
   directions.' What would you do in such a case?" I asked. "Do!" he
   replied with indignation,--"do! I would soon leave such a man as that
   to his own care. For of course," he added, "I could do nothing for him,
   unless he would put his whole case into my hands without any reserves,
   and would obey my directions implicitly." "It is necessary then," I
   said, "for doctors to be obeyed, if they are to have any chance to cure
   their patients?" "Implicitly obeyed!" was his emphatic reply. "And that
   is consecration," I continued. "God must have the whole case put into
   His hands without any reserves, and His directions must be implicitly
   followed." "I see it," he exclaimed,--"I see it! And I will do it. God
   shall have His own way with me from henceforth."

   Perhaps to some minds the word "abandonment" might express this idea
   better. But whatever word we use, we mean an entire surrender of the
   whole being to God; spirit, soul, and body placed under His absolute
   control, for Him to do with us just what He pleases. We mean that the
   language of our soul, under all circumstances, and in view of every
   act, is to be, "Thy will be done." We mean the giving up of all liberty
   of choice. We mean a life of inevitable obedience.

   To a soul ignorant of God, this may look hard. But to those who know
   Him, it is the happiest and most restful of lives. He is our Father,
   and He loves us, and He knows just what is best, and therefore, of
   course, His will is the very most blessed thing that can come to us
   under all circumstances. I do not understand how it is that Satan has
   succeeded in blinding the eyes of the Church to this fact. But it
   really would seem as if God's own children were more afraid of His will
   than of anything else in life; His lovely, lovable will, which only
   means loving-kindnesses and tender mercies, and blessings unspeakable
   to their souls. I wish I could only show to every one the unfathomable
   sweetness of the will of God. Heaven is a place of infinite bliss
   because His will is perfectly done there, and our lives share in this
   bliss just in proportion as His will is perfectly done in them. He
   loves us, and the will of love is always blessing for its loved one.
   Some of us know what it is to love, and we know that could we only have
   our way, our beloved ones would be overwhelmed with blessings. All that
   is good, and sweet, and lovely in life would be poured out upon them
   from our lavish hands, had we but the power to carry out our will for
   them. And if this is the way of love with us, how much more must it be
   so with our God, who is love itself. Could we but for one moment get a
   glimpse into the mighty depths of His love, our hearts would spring out
   to meet His will, and embrace it as our richest treasure; and we would
   abandon ourselves to it with an enthusiasm of gratitude and joy, that
   such a wondrous privilege could be ours.

   A great many Christians actually seem to think that all their Father in
   heaven wants is a chance to make them miserable, and to take away all
   their blessings, and they imagine, poor souls, that if they hold on to
   things in their own will, they can hinder Him from doing this. I am
   ashamed to write the words, and yet we must face a fact which is making
   wretched hundreds of lives.

   A Christian lady who had this feeling, was once expressing to a friend
   how impossible she found it to say, "Thy will be done," and how afraid
   she should be to do it. She was the mother of one only little boy, who
   was the heir to a great fortune, and the idol of her heart. After she
   had stated her difficulties fully, her friend said, "Suppose your
   little Charley should come running to you tomorrow and say, `Mother, I
   have made up my mind to let you have your own way with me from this
   time forward. I am always going to obey you, and I want you to do just
   whatever you think best with me. I know you love me, and I am going to
   trust myself to your love.' How would you feel towards him? Would you
   say to yourself, `Ah, now I shall have a chance to make Charley
   miserable. I will take away all his pleasures, and fill his life with
   every hard and disagreeable thing I can find. I will compel him to do
   just the things that are the most difficult for him to do, and will
   give him all sorts of impossible commands." "Oh, no, no, no!" exclaimed
   the indignant mother. "You know I would not. You know I would hug him
   to my heart and cover him with kisses, and would hasten to fill his
   life with all that was sweetest and best." "And are you more tender and
   more loving than God?" asked her friend. "Ah, no," was the reply, "I
   see my mistake, and I will not be afraid of saying `Thy will be done,'
   to my Heavenly Father, any more than I would want my Charley to be
   afraid of saying it to me."

   Better and sweeter than health, or friends, or money, or fame, or ease,
   or prosperity, is the adorable will of our God. It gilds the darkest
   hours with a divine halo, and sheds brightest sunshine on the gloomiest
   paths. He always reigns who has made it his kingdom; and nothing can go
   amiss to him. Surely, then, it is nothing but a glorious privilege that
   is opening before you when I tell you that the first step you must take
   in order to enter into the life hid with Christ in God, is that of
   entire consecration. I cannot have you look at it as a hard and stern
   demand. You must do it gladly, thankfully, enthusiastically. You must
   go in on what I call the privilege side of consecration; and I can
   assure you, from a blessed experience, that you will find it the
   happiest place you have ever entered yet.

   Faith is the next thing. Faith is an absolutely necessary element in
   the reception of any gift; for let our friends give a thing to us ever
   so fully, it is not really ours until we believe it has been given and
   claim it as our own. Above all, this is true in gifts which are purely
   mental or spiritual. Love may be lavished upon us by another without
   stint or measure, but until we believe that we are loved, it never
   really becomes ours.

   I suppose most Christians understand this principle in reference to the
   matter of their forgiveness. They know that the forgiveness of sins
   through Jesus might have been preached to them forever, but it would
   never have become theirs consciously until they believed this
   preaching, and claimed the forgiveness as their own. But when it comes
   to living the Christian life, they lose sight of this principle, and
   think that, having been saved by faith, they are now to live by works
   and efforts; and instead of continuing to receive, they are now to
   begin to do. This makes our declaration that the life hid with Christ
   in God is to be entered by faith, seem perfectly unintelligible to
   them. And yet it is plainly declared, that "as we have received Christ
   Jesus the Lord, so we are to walk in Him." We received Him by faith,
   and by faith alone; therefore we are to walk in Him by faith, and by
   faith alone. And the faith by which we enter into this hidden life is
   just the same as the faith by which we were translated out of the
   kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of God's dear Son, only it lays
   hold of a different thing. Then we believed that Jesus was our Saviour
   from the guilt of sin, and according to our faith it was unto us. Now
   we must believe that He is our Saviour from the power of sin, and
   according to our faith it shall be unto us. Then we trusted Him for our
   justification, and it became ours; now we must trust Him for our
   sanctification, and it shall become ours also. Then we took Him as a
   Saviour in the future from the penalties of our sins; now we must take
   Him as a Saviour in the present from the bondage of our sins. Then He
   was our Redeemer, now He is to be our Life. Then He lifted us out of
   the pit, now He is to seat us in heavenly places with Himself.

   I mean all this of course experimentally and practically. Theologically
   and judicially I know that every believer has everything the minute he
   is converted. But experimentally nothing is his until by faith he
   claims it. "Every place that the sole of your foot shall tread upon,
   that have I given unto you." God "hath blessed us with all spiritual
   blessings in heavenly places in Christ," but until we set the foot of
   faith upon them they do not practically become ours. "According to our
   faith," is always the limit and the rule.

   But this faith of which I am speaking must be a present faith. No faith
   that is exercised in the future tense amounts to anything. A man may
   believe forever that his sins will be forgiven at some future time, and
   he will never find peace. He has to come to the now belief, and say by
   faith, "My sins are now forgiven," before he can live the new life.
   And, similarly, no faith which looks for a future deliverance from the
   power of sin, will ever lead a soul into the life we are describing.
   The enemy delights in this future faith, for he knows it is powerless
   to accomplish any practical results. But he trembles and flees when the
   soul of the believer dares to claim a present deliverance, and to
   reckon itself now to be free from his power.

   To sum up, then: in order to enter into this blessed interior life of
   rest and triumph, you have two steps to take: first, entire
   abandonment; and second, absolute faith. No matter what may be the
   complications of your peculiar experience, no matter what your
   difficulties or your surroundings or your associations, these two
   steps, definitely taken and unwaveringly persevered in, will certainly
   bring you out sooner or later into the green pastures and still waters
   of this higher Christian life. You may be sure of this. And if you will
   let every other consideration go, and simply devote your attention to
   these two points, and be very clear and definite about them, your
   progress will be rapid and your soul will reach its desired haven far
   sooner than now you can think possible.

   Shall I repeat the steps, that there may be no mistake? You are a child
   of God, and long to please Him. You love your precious Saviour, and are
   sick and weary of the sin that grieves Him. You long to be delivered
   from its power. Everything you have hitherto tried has failed to
   deliver you, and now in your despair you are asking if it can indeed
   be, as these happy people say, that the Lord is able and willing to
   deliver you. Surely you know in your very soul that He is; that to save
   you out of the hand of all your enemies is in fact just the very thing
   He came to do. Then trust Him. Commit your case to Him in an absolute
   abandonment, and believe that He undertakes it; and at once, knowing
   what He is and what He has said, claim that He does even now fully
   save. Just as you believed at first that He delivered you from the
   guilt of sin because He said so, believe now that He delivers you from
   the power of sin because He says so. Let your faith now lay hold of a
   new power in Christ. You have trusted Him as your dying Saviour, now
   trust Him as your living Saviour. Just as much as He came to deliver
   you from future punishment, did He also come to deliver you from
   present bondage. Just as truly as He came to bear your sins for you,
   has He come to live His life in you. You are as utterly powerless in
   the one case as in the other. You could as easily have got yourself rid
   of your own sins, as you could now accomplish for yourself practical
   righteousness. Christ, and Christ only, must do both for you, and your
   part in both cases is simply to give the thing to Him to do, and then
   believe that He does it.

   A lady, now very eminent in this life of trust, when she was seeking in
   great darkness and perplexity to enter in, said to the friend who was
   trying to help her, "You all say, `Abandon yourself, and trust, abandon
   yourself, and trust,' but I do not know how. I wish you would just do
   it out loud, so that I may see how you do it."

   Shall I do it out loud for you?

   "Lord Jesus, I believe that Thou art able and willing to deliver me
   from all the care, and unrest and bondage of my Christian life. I
   believe thou didst die to set me free, not only in the future, but now
   and here. I believe thou art stronger than Satan, and that thou canst
   keep me, even me, in my extreme of weakness, from falling into his
   snares or yielding obedience to his commands. And, Lord, I am going to
   trust thee to keep me. I have tried keeping myself, and have failed,
   and failed most grievously. I am absolutely helpless; so now I will
   trust thee. I will give myself to thee; I keep back no reserves. Body,
   soul, and spirit, I present myself to thee, a worthless lump of clay,
   to be made into anything thy love and thy wisdom shall choose. And now,
   I am thine. I believe thou dost accept that which I present to thee; I
   believe that this poor, weak, foolish heart has been taken possession
   of by thee, and thou hast even at this very moment begun to work in me
   to will and to do of thy good pleasure. I trust thee utterly, and I
   trust thee now!"

   Are you afraid to take this step? Does it seem too sudden, too much
   like a leap in the dark? Do you not know that the steps of faith always
   "fall on the seeming void, but find the rock beneath"? A man, having to
   descend a well by a rope, found, to his horror, when he was a great way
   down, that it was too short. He had reached the end, and yet was, he
   estimated, about thirty feet from the bottom of the well. He knew not
   what to do. He had not the strength or skill to climb up the rope, and
   to let go was to be dashed to pieces. His arms began to fail, and at
   last he decided that as he could not hold on much longer, he might as
   well let go and meet his fate at once. He resigned himself to
   destruction, and loosened his grasp. He fell! To the bottom of the well
   it was--just three inches!

   If ever your feet are to touch the "rock beneath," you must let go of
   every holding-place and drop into God; for there is no other way. And
   to do it now may save you months and even years of strain and
   weariness.

   In all the old castles of England there used to be a place called the
   keep. It was always the strongest and best protected place in the
   castle, and in it were hidden all who were weak and helpless and unable
   to defend themselves in times of danger. Had you been a timid, helpless
   woman in such a castle during a time of siege, would it have seemed to
   you a leap in the dark to have hidden yourself there? Would you have
   been afraid to do it? And shall we be afraid to hide ourselves in the
   keeping power of our Divine Keeper, who neither slumbers nor sleeps,
   and who has promised to preserve our going out and our coming in, from
   this time forth and even forever more?
     __________________________________________________________________

    Chapter 5

  DIFFICULTIES CONCERNING CONSECRATION

   It is very important that Christians should not be ignorant of the
   devices of the enemy; for he stands ready to oppose every onward step
   of the soul's progress. And especially is he busy when he sees a
   believer awakened to a hunger and thirst after righteousness, and
   seeking to reach out to apprehend all the fulness that is in the Lord
   Jesus Christ for him.

   One of the first difficulties he throws in the way of such a one is
   concerning consecration. The seeker after holiness is told that he must
   consecrate himself; and he endeavors to do so. But at once he meets
   with a difficulty. He has done it, as he thinks, and yet does not feel
   differently from before; nothing seems changed, as he has been led to
   expect it would be, and he is completely baffled, and asks the question
   almost despairingly, "How am I to know when I am consecrated?"

   The one grand temptation which has met such a soul at this juncture is
   the temptation which never fails to assert itself on every possible
   occasion, and generally with marked success, and that is in reference
   to feeling. The soul cannot believe it is consecrated until it feels
   that it is; and because it does not feel that God has taken it in hand,
   it cannot believe that He has. As usual, it puts feeling first and
   faith second. Now, God's invariable rule is faith first and feeling
   second, in everything; and it is striving against the inevitable when
   we seek to make it different.

   The way to meet this temptation, then, in reference to consecration, is
   simply to take God's side in the matter, and to put faith before
   feeling. Give yourself to the Lord definitely and fully, according to
   your present light, asking the Holy Spirit to show you all that is
   contrary to God, either in your heart or life. If He shows you
   anything, give it to the Lord immediately, and say in reference to it,
   "Thy will be done." If He shows you nothing, then you must believe that
   there is nothing, and must conclude that you have given Him all. Then
   you must believe that He takes you. You positively must not wait to
   feel either that you have given yourself or that He has taken you. You
   must simply believe it, and reckon it to be the case.

   If you were to give an estate to a friend, you would have to give it,
   and he would have to receive it by faith. An estate is not a thing that
   can be picked up and handed over to another; the gift of it and its
   reception are altogether a mental transaction and therefore one of
   faith. Now, if you should give an estate one day to a friend, and then
   should go away and wonder whether you really had given it, and whether
   he had actually taken it and considered it his own, and should feel it
   necessary to go the next day and renew the gift; and if on the third
   day you should still feel a similar uncertainty about it, and should
   again go and renew the gift, and on the fourth day go through a like
   process, and so on, day after day for months and years, what would your
   friend think, and what at last would be the condition of your own mind
   in reference to it? Your friend certainly would begin to doubt whether
   you ever had intended to give it to him at all; and you yourself would
   be in such hopeless perplexity about it, that you would not know
   whether the estate was yours, or his, or whose it was.

   Now, is not this very much the way in which you have been acting
   towards God in this matter of consecration? You have given yourself to
   Him over and over daily, perhaps for months, but you have invariably
   come away from your seasons of consecration wondering whether you
   really have given yourself after all, and whether He has taken you; and
   because you have not felt any differently, you have concluded at last,
   after many painful tossings, that the thing has not been done. Do you
   know, dear believer, that this sort of perplexity will last forever,
   unless you cut it short by faith? You must come to the point of
   reckoning the matter to be an accomplished and settled thing, and
   leaving it there, before you can possibly expect any change of feeling
   what ever.

   The very law of offerings to the Lord settles this as a primary fact,
   that everything which is given to Him becomes by that very act
   something holy, set apart from all other things, and cannot without
   sacrilege be put to any other uses. "Notwithstanding, no devoted thing
   that a man shall devote unto the Lord of all that he hath, both of man
   and beast, and of the field of his possession, shall be sold or
   redeemed: every devoted thing is most holy unto the Lord." Having once
   given it to the Lord, the devoted thing henceforth was reckoned by all
   Israel as being the Lord's, and no one dared to stretch forth a hand to
   retake it. The giver might have made his offering very grudgingly and
   half-heartedly, but having made it, the matter was taken out of his
   hands altogether, and the devoted thing by God's own law became "most
   holy unto the Lord."

   It was not the intention of the giver that made it holy, but the
   holiness of the receiver. "The altar sanctifies the gift." And an
   offering once laid upon the altar, from that moment belonged to the
   Lord. I can imagine an offerer who had deposited a gift, beginning to
   search his heart as to his sincerity and honesty in doing it, and
   coming back to the priest to say that he was afraid after all he had
   not given it right, or had not been perfectly sincere in giving it. I
   feel sure that the priest would have silenced him at once with saying,
   "As to how you gave your offering, or what were your motives in giving
   it, I do not know. The facts are that you did give it, and that it is
   the Lord's, for every devoted thing is most holy unto Him. It is too
   late to recall the transaction now." And not only the priest but all
   Israel would have been aghast at the man who, having once given his
   offering, should have reached out his hand to take it back. And yet,
   day after day, earnest-hearted Christians, who would have shuddered at
   such an act of sacrilege on the part of a Jew, are guilty in their own
   experience of a similar act, by giving themselves to the Lord in solemn
   consecration, and then through unbelief taking back that which they
   have given.

   Because God is not visibly present to the eye, it is difficult to feel
   that a transaction with Him is real. I suppose if, when we made our
   acts of consecration, we could actually see Him present with us, we
   should feel it to be a very real thing, and would realize that we had
   given our word to Him and could not dare to take it back, no matter how
   much we might wish to do so. Such a transaction would have to us the
   binding power that a spoken promise to an earthly friend always has to
   a man of honor. And what we need is to see that God's presence is a
   certain fact always, and that every act of our soul is done right
   before Him, and that a word spoken in prayer is as really spoken to
   Him, as if our eyes could see Him and our hands could touch Him. Then
   we shall cease to have such vague conceptions of our relations with
   Him, and shall feel the binding force of every word we say in His
   presence.

   I know some will say here, "Ah, yes; but if He would only speak to me,
   and say that He took me when I gave myself to Him, I would have no
   trouble then in believing it." No, of course you would not; but He does
   not generally say this until the soul has first proved its loyalty by
   believing what He has already said. It is he that believeth who has the
   witness, not he that doubteth. And by His very command to us to present
   ourselves to Him a living sacrifice, He has pledged Himself to receive
   us. I cannot conceive of an honorable man asking another to give him a
   thing which, after all, he was doubtful about taking; still less can I
   conceive of a loving parent acting so towards a darling child. "My son,
   give me thy heart," is a sure warrant for knowing that the moment the
   heart is given, it will be taken by the One who has commanded the gift.
   We may, nay we must, feel the utmost confidence then that when we
   surrender ourselves to the Lord, according to His own command, He does
   then and there receive us, and from that moment we are His. A real
   transaction has taken place, which cannot be violated without dishonor
   on our part, and which we know will not be violated by Him.

   In Deut. 26:17, 18, 19, we see God's way of working under these
   circumstances:--

   "Thou hast avouched the Lord this day to be thy God, and to walk in His
   ways and to keep His statutes, and His commandments, and His judgments,
   and to hearken unto His voice; and the Lord hath avouched thee this day
   to be His peculiar people, as He hath promised thee, and that thou
   shouldst keep all His commandments; . . . and that thou mayest be an
   holy people unto the Lord, as He hath spoken."

   When we avouch the Lord to be our God, and that we will walk in His
   ways and keep His commandments, He avouches us to be His, and that we
   shall keep all His commandments. And from that moment He takes
   possession of us. This has always been His principle of working, and it
   continues to be so. "Every devoted thing is most holy to the Lord."
   This seems to me so plain as scarcely to admit of a question.

   But if the soul still feels in doubt or difficulty, let me refer you to
   a New Testament declaration which approaches the subject from a
   different side, but which settles it, I think, quite as definitely. It
   is in 1 John 5:14, 15, and reads: "And this is the confidence that we
   have in Him, that if we ask anything according to His will, He heareth
   us; and if we know that He hear us, whatsoever we ask, we know that we
   have the petitions that we desired of Him." Is it according to His will
   that you should be entirely consecrated to Him? There can be, of
   course, but one answer to this, for He has commanded it. Is it not also
   according to His will that He should work in you to will and to do of
   His good pleasure? This question also can have but one answer, for He
   has declared it to be His purpose. You know, then, that these things
   are according to His will, therefore on God's own word you are obliged
   to know that He hears you; and knowing this much, you are compelled to
   go further and know that you have the petitions that you have desired
   of Him. That you have, I say, not will have, or may have, but have now
   in actual possession. It is thus that we "obtain promises" by faith. It
   is thus that we have "access by faith" into the grace that is given us
   in our Lord Jesus Christ. It is thus, and thus only, that we come to
   know our hearts are "purified by faith," and are enabled to live by
   faith, to stand by faith, to walk by faith.

   I desire to make this subject so plain and practical that no one need
   have any further difficulty about it, and therefore I will repeat again
   just what must be the acts of your soul in order to bring you out of
   this difficulty about consecration.

   I suppose that you have trusted the Lord Jesus for the forgiveness of
   your sins, and know something of what it is to belong to the family of
   God, and to be made an heir of God through faith in Christ. And now you
   feel springing up in your soul the longing to be conformed to the image
   of your Lord. In order for this, you know there must be an entire
   surrender of yourself to Him, that He may work in you all the good
   pleasure of His will; and you have tried over and over to do it, but
   hitherto without any apparent success.

   At this point it is that I desire to help you. What you must do now is
   to come once more to Him in a surrender of your whole self to His will,
   as complete as you know how to make it. You must ask Him to reveal to
   you by His Spirit any hidden rebellion; and if He reveals nothing, then
   you must believe that there is nothing, and that the surrender is
   complete. This must, then, be considered a settled matter. You have
   abandoned yourself to the Lord, and from henceforth you do not in any
   sense belong to yourself; you must never even so much as listen to a
   suggestion to the contrary. If the temptation comes to wonder whether
   you really have completely surrendered yourself, meet it with an
   assertion that you have. Do not even argue the matter. Repel any such
   idea instantly and with decision. You meant it then, you mean it now,
   you have really done it. Your emotions may clamor against the
   surrender, but your will must hold firm. It is your purpose God looks
   at, not your feelings about that purpose, and your purpose, or will, is
   therefore the only thing you need attend to.

   The surrender, then, having been made, never to be questioned or
   recalled, the next point is to believe that God takes that which you
   have surrendered, and to reckon that it is His. Not that it will be at
   some future time, but is now; and that He has begun to work in you to
   will, and to do, of His good pleasure. And here you must rest. There is
   nothing more for you to do, for you are the Lord's now, absolutely and
   entirely in His hands, and He has undertaken the whole care and
   management and forming of you; and will, according to His word, "work
   in you that which is well-pleasing in His sight through Jesus Christ."
   But you must hold steadily here. If you begin to question your
   surrender, or God's acceptance of it, then your wavering faith will
   produce a wavering experience, and He cannot work. But while you trust
   He works, and the result of His working always is to change you into
   the image of Christ, from glory to glory, by His mighty Spirit.

   Do you, then, now at this moment surrender yourself wholly to Him? You
   answer, Yes. Then, my dear friend, begin at once to reckon that you are
   His; that He has taken you, and that He is working in you to will and
   to do of His good pleasure. And keep on reckoning this. You will find
   it a great help to put your reckoning into words, and to say over and
   over to yourself and to your God, "Lord, I am thine; I do yield myself
   up to thee entirely, and I believe that thou dost take me. I leave
   myself with thee. Work in me all the good pleasure of thy will, and I
   will only lie still in thy hands, and trust thee."

   Make this a daily definite act of your will, and many times a day recur
   to it, as being your continual attitude before Him. Confess it to
   yourself. Confess it to your God. Confess it to your friends. Avouch
   the Lord to be your God continually and unwaveringly, and declare your
   purpose of walking in His ways and keeping His statutes; and you will
   find in practical experience that He has avouched you to be His
   peculiar people and that you shall keep all His commandments, and that
   you will be "an holy people unto the Lord, as He hath spoken."

   A few simple rules may be found helpful here. I would advise the use of
   them in daily times of devotion, making them the definite test and
   attitude of the soul, until the light shines clearly on this matter.

   I. Express in definite words your faith in Christ as your Saviour; and
   acknowledge definitely that you believe He has reconciled you to God;
   according to 2 Cor. 5:18, 19.

   II. Definitely acknowledge God as your Father, and yourself as His
   redeemed and forgiven child; according to Gal. 5:6.

   III. Definitely surrender yourself to be all the Lord's, body, soul,
   and spirit; and to obey Him in everything where His will is made known;
   according to Rom. 12:12.

   IV. Believe and continue to believe, against all seemings, that God
   takes possession of that which you thus abandon to Him, and that He
   will henceforth work in you to will and to do of His good pleasure,
   unless you consciously frustrate His grace; according to 2 Cor. 6:17,
   18, and Phil. 2:13.

   V. Pay no attention to your feelings as a test of your relations with
   God, but simply attend to the state of your will and of your faith. And
   count all these steps you are now taking as settled, though the enemy
   may make it seem otherwise. Heb. 10:22, 23.

   VI. Never, under any circumstances, give way for one single moment to
   doubt or discouragement. Remember, that all discouragement is from the
   devil, and refuse to admit it; according to John 14:1, 27.

   VII. Cultivate the habit of expressing your faith in definite words,
   and repeat often, "I am all the Lord's and He is working in me now to
   will and to do of His good pleasure; according to Heb. 13:21.
     __________________________________________________________________

    Chapter 6

  DIFFICULTIES CONCERNING FAITH

   The next step after consecration, in the soul's progress out of the
   wilderness of Christian experience, into the land that floweth with
   milk and honey, is that of faith. And here, as in the first step, the
   enemy is very skilful in making difficulties and interposing obstacles.

   The child of God, having had his eyes opened to see the fulness there
   is in Jesus for him, and having been made to long to appropriate that
   fulness to himself, is met with the assertion on the part of every
   teacher to whom he applies, that this fulness is only to be received by
   faith. But the subject of faith is involved in such a hopeless mystery
   in his mind, that this assertion, instead of throwing light upon the
   way of entrance, only seems to make it more difficult and involved than
   ever.

   "Of course it is to be by faith," he says, "for I know that everything
   in the Christian life is by faith. But then, that is just what makes it
   so hard, for I have no faith, and I do not even know what it is, nor
   how to get it." And, baffled at the very outset by this insuperable
   difficulty, he is plunged into darkness, and almost despair.

   This trouble all arises from the fact that the subject of faith is very
   generally misunderstood; for in reality faith is the plainest and most
   simple thing in the world, and the most easy of attainment.

   Your idea of faith, I suppose, has been something like this. You have
   looked upon it as in some way a sort of thing, either a religious
   exercise of soul, or an inward gracious disposition of heart; something
   tangible, in fact, which, when you have got, you can look at and
   rejoice over, and use as a passport to God's favor, or a coin with
   which to purchase His gifts. And you have been praying for faith,
   expecting all the while to get something like this, and never having
   received any such thing, you are insisting upon it that you have no
   faith. Now faith, in fact, is not in the least this sort of thing. It
   is nothing at all tangible. It is simply believing God, and, like
   sight, it is nothing apart from its object. You might as well shut your
   eyes and look inside to see whether you have sight, as to look inside
   to discover whether you have faith. You see something, and thus know
   that you have sight; you believe something, and thus know that you have
   faith. For, as sight is only seeing, so faith is only believing. And as
   the only necessary thing about seeing is, that you see the thing as it
   is, so the only necessary thing about believing is, that you believe
   the thing as it is. The virtue does not lie in your believing, but in
   the thing you believe. If you believe the truth you are saved; if you
   believe a lie you are lost. The believing in both cases is the same;
   the things believed in are exactly opposite, and it is this which makes
   the mighty difference. Your salvation comes, not because your faith
   saves you, but because it links you on to the Saviour who saves; and
   your believing is really nothing but the link.

   I do beg of you to recognize, then, the extreme simplicity of faith;
   that it is nothing more nor less than just believing God when He says
   He either has done something for us, or will do it; and then trusting
   Him to do it. It is so simple that it is hard to explain. If any one
   asks me what it means to trust another to do a piece of work for me, I
   can only answer that it means letting that other one do it, and feeling
   it perfectly unnecessary for me to do it myself. Every one of us has
   trusted very important pieces of work to others in this way, and has
   felt perfect rest in thus trusting, because of the confidence we have
   had in those who have undertaken to do it. How constantly do mothers
   trust their most precious infants to the care of nurses, and feel no
   shadow of anxiety? How continually we are all of us trusting our health
   and our lives, without a thought of fear, to cooks and coachmen, engine
   drivers, railway conductors, and all sorts of paid servants, who have
   us completely at their mercy, and could plunge us into misery or death
   in a moment, if they chose to do so, or even if they failed in the
   necessary carefulness? All this we do, and make no fuss about it. Upon
   the slightest acquaintance, often, we thus put our trust in people,
   requiring only the general knowledge of human nature, and the common
   rules of human intercourse; and we never feel as if we were doing
   anything in the least remarkable.

   You have done all this yourself, dear reader, and are doing it
   continually. You would not be able to live in this world and go through
   the customary routine of life a single day, if you could not trust your
   fellow-men. And it never enters into your head to say you cannot.

   But yet you do not hesitate to say, continually, that you cannot trust
   your God!

   I wish you would just now try to imagine yourself acting in your human
   relations as you do in your spiritual relations. Suppose you should
   begin tomorrow with the notion in your head that you could not trust
   anybody, because you had no faith. When you sat down to breakfast you
   would say, "I cannot eat anything on this table, for I have no faith,
   and I cannot believe the cook has not put poison in the coffee, or that
   the butcher has not sent home diseased meat." So you would go starving
   away. Then when you went out to your daily avocations, you would say,
   "I cannot ride in the railway train, for I have no faith, and therefore
   I cannot trust the engineer, nor the conductor, nor the builders of the
   carriages, nor the managers of the road." So you would be compelled to
   walk everywhere, and grow unutterably weary in the effort, besides
   being actually unable to reach many of the places you could have
   reached in the train. Then, when your friends met you with any
   statements, or your business agent with any accounts, you would say, "I
   am very sorry that I cannot believe you, but I have no faith, and never
   can believe anybody." If you opened a newspaper you would be forced to
   lay it down again, saying, "I really cannot believe a word this paper
   says, for I have no faith; I do not believe there is any such person as
   the queen, for I never saw her; nor any such country as Ireland, for I
   was never there. And I have no faith, so of course I cannot believe
   anything that I have not actually felt and touched myself. It is a
   great trial, but I cannot help it, for I have no faith."

   Just picture such a day as this, and see how disastrous it would be to
   yourself, and what utter folly it would appear to any one who should
   watch you through the whole of it. Realize how your friends would feel
   insulted, and how your servants would refuse to serve you another day.
   And then ask yourself the question, if this want of faith in your
   fellow-men would be so dreadful, and such utter folly, what must it be
   when you tell God that you have no power to trust Him nor to believe
   His word; that "it is a great trial, but you cannot help it, for you
   have no faith"?

   Is it possible that you can trust your fellow-men and cannot trust your
   God? That you can receive the "witness of men," and cannot receive the
   "witness of God"? That you can believe man's records, and cannot
   believe God's record? That you can commit your dearest earthly
   interests to your weak, failing fellow-creatures without a fear, and
   are afraid to commit your spiritual interests to the blessed Saviour
   who shed His blood for the very purpose of saving you, and who is
   declared to be "able to save you to the uttermost"?

   Surely, surely, dear believer, you, whose very name of believer implies
   that you can believe, will never again dare to excuse yourself on the
   plea of having no faith. For when you say this, you mean of course that
   you have no faith in God, since you are not asked to have faith in
   yourself, and you would be in a very wrong condition of soul if you
   had. Let me beg of you then, when you think or say these things, always
   to complete the sentence and say, "I have no faith in God, I cannot
   believe God"; and this I am sure will soon become so dreadful to you,
   that you will not dare to continue it.

   But you say, I cannot believe without the Holy Spirit. Very well; will
   you conclude that your want of faith is because of the failure of the
   blessed Spirit to do His work? For if it is, then surely you are not to
   blame, and need feel no condemnation; and all exhortations to you to
   believe are useless.

   But, no! Do you not see that, in taking up this position, that you have
   no faith and cannot believe, you are not only "making God a liar," but
   you are also manifesting an utter want of confidence in the Holy
   Spirit? For He is always ready to help our infirmities. We never have
   to wait for Him, He is always waiting for us. And I for my part have
   such absolute confidence in the blessed Holy Ghost, and in His being
   always ready to do his work, that I dare to say to every one of you,
   that you can believe now, at this very moment, and that if you do not,
   it is not the Spirit's fault, but your own.

   Put your will then over on to the believing side. Say, "Lord I will
   believe, I do believe," and continue to say it. Insist upon believing,
   in the face of every suggestion of doubt with which you may be tempted.
   Out of your very unbelief, throw yourself headlong on to the word and
   promises of God, and dare to abandon yourself to the keeping and saving
   power of the Lord Jesus. If you have ever trusted a precious interest
   in the hands of any earthly friend, I conjure you, trust yourself now
   and all your spiritual interests in the hands of your Heavenly Friend,
   and never, never, NEVER allow yourself to doubt again.

   And remember, there are two things which are more utterly incompatible
   than even oil and water, and these two are trust and worry. Would you
   call it trust, if you should give something into the hands of a friend
   to attend to for you, and then should spend your nights and days in
   anxious thought and worry as to whether it would be rightly and
   successfully done? And can you call it trust, when you have given the
   saving and keeping of your soul into the hands of the Lord, if day
   after day and night after night you are spending hours of anxious
   thought and questionings about the matter? When a believer really
   trusts anything, he ceases to worry about that thing which he has
   trusted. And when he worries, it is a plain proof that he does not
   trust. Tested by this rule how little real trust there is in the Church
   of Christ! No wonder our Lord asked the pathetic question, "When the
   Son of Man cometh shall he find faith on the earth?" He will find
   plenty of activity, a great deal of earnestness, and doubtless many
   consecrated hearts; but shall he find faith, the one thing He values
   more than all the rest? It is a solemn question, and I would that every
   Christian heart would ponder it well. But may the time past of our
   lives suffice us to have shared in the unbelief of the world; and let
   us every one, who know our blessed Lord and His unspeakable
   trustworthiness, set to our seal that He is true, by our generous
   abandonment of trust in Him.

   I remember, very early in my Christian life, having every tender and
   loyal impulse within me stirred to its depths by an appeal I met with
   in a volume of old sermons to all who loved the Lord Jesus, that they
   should show to others how worthy He was of being trusted, by the
   steadfastness of their own faith in Him. And I remember my soul cried
   out with an eager longing that I might be called to walk in paths so
   dark, that an utter abandonment of trust might be my blessed and
   glorious privilege.

   "Ye have not passed this way heretofore," it may be; but today it is
   your happy privilege to prove, as never before, your loyal confidence
   in the Lord by starting out with Him on a life and walk of faith, lived
   moment by moment in absolute and childlike trust in Him.

   You have trusted Him in a few things, and He has not failed you. Trust
   Him now for everything, and see if He does not do for you exceeding
   abundantly above all that you could ever have asked or thought; not
   according to your power or capacity, but according to His own mighty
   power, that will work in you all the good pleasure of His most blessed
   will.

   You find no difficulty in trusting the Lord with the management of the
   universe and all the outward creation, and can your case be any more
   complex or difficult than these, that you need to be anxious or
   troubled about his management of it. Away with such unworthy doubtings!
   Take your stand on the power and trustworthiness of your God, and see
   how quickly all difficulties will vanish before a steadfast
   determination to believe. Trust in the dark, trust in the light, trust
   at night, and trust in the morning, and you will find that the faith,
   which may begin by a mighty effort, will end sooner or later by
   becoming the easy and natural habit of the soul.

   All things are possible to God, and "all things are possible to him
   that believeth." Faith has, in times past, "subdued kingdoms, wrought
   righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, quenched
   the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, waxed valiant in
   fight, turned to flight the armies of the aliens"; and faith can do it
   again. For our Lord Himself says unto us, "If ye have faith as a grain
   of mustard seed, ye shall say unto this mountain, Remove hence to
   yonder place, and it shall remove; and nothing shall be impossible unto
   you."

   If you are a child of God at all, you must have at least as much faith
   as a grain of mustard seed, and therefore you dare not say again that
   you cannot trust because you have no faith. Say rather, "I can trust my
   Lord, and I will trust Him, and not all the powers of earth or hell
   shall be able to make me doubt my wonderful, glorious, faithful
   Redeemer!"

   In that greatest event of this century, the emancipation of our slaves,
   there is a wonderful illustration of the way of faith. The slaves
   received their freedom by faith, just as we must receive ours. The good
   news was carried to them that the government had proclaimed their
   freedom. As a matter of fact they were free the moment the Proclamation
   was issued, but as a matter of experience they did not come into actual
   possession of their freedom until they had heard the good news and had
   believed it. The fact had to come first, but the believing was
   necessary before the fact became available, and the feeling would
   follow last of all. This is the divine order always, and the order of
   common-sense as well. I. The fact. II. The faith. III. The feeling. But
   man reverses this order and says, I. The feeling. II. The faith. III.
   The fact.

   Had the slaves followed man's order in regard to their emancipation,
   and refused to believe in it until they had first felt it, they might
   have remained in slavery a long while. I have heard of one instance
   where this was the case. In a little out-of-the-way Southern town a
   Northern lady found, about two or three years after the war was over,
   some slaves who had not yet taken possession of their freedom. An
   assertion of hers, that the North had set them free, aroused the
   attention of an old colored auntie, who interrupted her with the eager
   question,--

   "O missus, is we free?"

   "Of course you are," replied the lady.

   "O missus, is you sure?" urged the woman, with intensest eagerness.

   "Certainly, I am sure," answered the lady. "Why, is it possible you did
   not know it?"

   "Well," said the woman, "we heered tell as how we was free, and we
   asked master, and he `lowed we wasn't, and so we was afraid to go. And
   then we heered tell again, and we went to the cunnel, and he `lowed
   we'd better stay with ole massa. And so we's just been off and on.
   Sometimes we'd hope we was free, and then again we'd think we wasn't.
   But now, missus, if you is sure we is free, won't you tell me all about
   it?"

   Seeing that this was a case of real need, the lady took the pains to
   explain the whole thing to the poor woman; all about the war, and the
   Northern army, and Abraham Lincoln, and his Proclamation of
   Emancipation, and the present freedom.

   The poor slave listened with the most intense eagerness. She heard the
   good news. She believed it. And when the story was ended, she walked
   out of the room with an air of the utmost independence, saying as she
   went,--"I's free! I's ain't agoing to stay with ol massa any longer!"

   She had at last received her freedom, and she had received it by faith.
   The government had declared her to be free long before, but this had
   not availed her, because she had never yet believed in this
   declaration. The good news had not profited her, not being "mixed with
   faith" in the one who heard it. But now she believed, and believing,
   she dared to reckon herself to be free. And this, not because of any
   change in herself or her surroundings, not because of any feelings of
   emotions of her own heart, but because she had confidence in the word
   of another, who had come to her proclaiming the good news of her
   freedom.

   Need I make the application? In a hundred different messages God has
   declared to us our freedom, and over and over He urges us to reckon
   ourselves free. Let your faith then lay hold of His proclamation, and
   assert it to be true. Declare to yourself, to your friends, and in the
   secret of your soul to God, that you are free. Refuse to listen for a
   moment to the lying assertions of your old master, that you are still
   his slave. Let nothing discourage you, no inward feelings nor outward
   signs. Hold on to your reckoning in the face of all opposition, and I
   can promise you, on the authority of our Lord, that according to your
   faith it shall be unto you.

   Of all the worships we can bring our God, none is so sweet to Him as
   this utter self-abandoning trust, and none brings Him so much glory.
   Therefore in every dark hour remember that "though now for a season, if
   need be, ye are in heaviness through manifold temptations," it is in
   order that "the trial of your faith, being much more precious than of
   gold that perisheth, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto
   praise, and honor, and glory, at the appearing of Jesus Christ."
     __________________________________________________________________

    Chapter 7

  DIFFICULTIES CONCERNING THE WILL

   When the child of God has, by the way of entire abandonment and
   absolute trust, stepped out of himself into Christ, and has begun to
   know something of the blessedness of the life hid with Christ in God,
   there is one form of difficulty which is very likely to start up in his
   path. After the first emotions of peace and rest have somewhat
   subsided, or if, as is sometimes the case, they have never seemed to
   come at all, he begins to feel such an utter unreality in the things he
   has been passing through, that he seems to himself like a hypocrite,
   when he says or even thinks they are real. It seems to him that his
   belief does not go below the surface, that it is a mere lip-belief, and
   therefore of no account, and that his surrender is not a surrender of
   the heart, and therefore cannot be acceptable to God. He is afraid to
   say he is altogether the Lord's, for fear he will be telling an
   untruth, and yet he cannot bring himself to say he is not, because he
   longs for it so intensely. The difficulty is real and very
   disheartening.

   But there is nothing here which will not be very easily overcome, when
   the Christian once thoroughly understands the principles of the new
   life, and has learned how to live in it. The common thought is, that
   this life hid with Christ in God is to be lived in the emotions, and
   consequently all the attention of the soul is directed towards them,
   and as they are satisfactory or otherwise, the soul rests or is
   troubled. Now the truth is that this life is not to be lived in the
   emotions at all, but in the will, and therefore the varying states of
   emotion do not in the least disturb or affect the reality of the life,
   if only the will is kept steadfastly abiding in its centre, God's will.

   To make this plain, I must enlarge a little. Fenelon says somewhere,
   that "pure religion resides in the will alone." By this he means that
   as the will is the governing power in the man's nature, if the will is
   set straight, all the rest of the nature must come into harmony. By the
   will I do not mean the wish of the man, nor even his purpose, but the
   choice, the deciding power, the king, to which all that is in the man
   must yield obedience. It is the man, in short, the "Ego," that which we
   feel to be ourselves.

   It is sometimes thought that the emotions are the governing power in
   our nature. But, as a matter of practical experience, I think we all of
   us know that there is something within us, behind our emotions, and
   behind our wishes,--an independent self,--that after all decides
   everything and controls everything. Our emotions belong to us, and are
   suffered and enjoyed by us, but they are not ourselves; and if God is
   to take possession of us, it must be into this central will or
   personality that He shall enter. If, then, He is reigning there by the
   power of His Spirit, all the rest of our nature must come under His
   sway; and as the will is, so is the man.

   The practical bearing of this truth upon the difficulty I am
   considering is very great. For the decisions of our will are often so
   directly opposed to the decisions of our emotions, that, if we are in
   the habit of considering our emotions as the test, we shall be very apt
   to feel like hypocrites in declaring those things to be real which our
   will alone has decided. But the moment we see that the will is king, we
   shall utterly disregard anything that clamors against it, and shall
   claim as real its decisions, let the emotions rebel as they may.

   I am aware that this is a difficult subject to deal with, but it is so
   exceedingly practical in its bearing upon the life of faith, that I beg
   of you, dear reader, not to turn from it until you have mastered it.

   Perhaps an illustration will help you. A young man of great
   intelligence, seeking to enter into this new life, was utterly
   discouraged at finding himself the slave to an inveterate habit of
   doubting. To his emotions nothing seemed true, nothing seemed real; and
   the more he struggled the more unreal did it all become. He was told
   this secret concerning the will, that if he would only put his will
   over on to the believing side; if he would choose to believe; if, in
   short, he would, in the Ego of his nature, say, "I will believe! I do
   believe!" he need not trouble about his emotions, for they would find
   themselves compelled, sooner or later, to come into harmony. "What!" he
   said, "do you mean to tell me that I can choose to believe in that way,
   when nothing seems true to me; and will that kind of believing be
   real?" "Yes," was the answer, "your part is only this,--to put your
   will over on God's side in this matter of believing; and when you do
   this, God immediately takes possession of it, and works in you to will
   of His good pleasure, and you will soon find that He has brought all
   the rest of your nature into subjection to Himself." "Well," was the
   answer, "I can do this. I cannot control my emotions, but I can control
   my will, and the new life begins to look possible to me, if it is only
   my will that needs to be set straight in the matter. I can give my will
   to God, and I do!"

   From that moment, disregarding all the pitiful clamoring of his
   emotions, which continually accused him of being a wretched hypocrite,
   this young man held on steadily to the decision of his will, answering
   every accusation with the continued assertion that he chose to believe,
   he meant to believe, he did believe; until at the end of a few days he
   found himself triumphant, with every emotion and every thought brought
   into captivity to the mighty power of the blessed Spirit of God, who
   had taken possession of the will thus put into His hands. He had held
   fast the profession of his faith without wavering, although it had
   seemed to him that, as to real faith itself, he had none to hold fast.
   At times it had drained all the will power he possessed to his lips, to
   say that he believed, so contrary was it to all the evidence of his
   senses or of his emotions. But he had caught the idea that his will
   was, after all, himself, and that if he kept that on God's side, he was
   doing all he could do, and that God alone could change his emotions or
   control his being. The result has been one of the grandest Christian
   lives I know of, in its marvellous simplicity, directness, and power
   over sin.

   The secret lies just here. That our will, which is the spring of all
   our actions, is in our natural state under the control of self, and
   self has been working it in us to our utter ruin and misery. Now God
   says, "Yield yourselves up unto Me, as those that are alive from the
   dead, and I will work in you to will and to do of my good pleasure."
   And the moment we yield ourselves, He of course takes possession of us,
   and does work in us "that which is well pleasing in His sight through
   Jesus Christ," giving us the mind that was in Christ, and transforming
   us into His image. (See Rom. 12:1, 2.)

   Let us take another illustration. A lady, who had entered into this
   life hid with Christ, was confronted by a great prospective trial.
   Every emotion she had within her rose up in rebellion against it, and
   had she considered her emotions to be her king, she would have been in
   utter despair. But she had learned this secret of the will, and knowing
   that, at the bottom, she herself did really choose the will of God for
   her portion, she did not pay the slightest attention to her emotions,
   but persisted in meeting every thought concerning the trial, with the
   words, repeated over and over, "Thy will be done! Thy will be done!"
   asserting in the face of all her rebelling feelings, that she did
   submit her will to God's, that she chose to submit, and that His will
   should be and was her delight! The result was, that in an incredibly
   short space of time every thought was brought into captivity; and she
   began to find even her very emotions rejoicing in the will of God.

   Again, there was a lady who had a besetting sin, which in her emotions
   she dearly loved, but which in her will she hated. Having believed
   herself to be necessarily under the control of her emotions, she had
   therefore thought she was unable to conquer it, unless her emotions
   should first be changed. But she learned this secret concerning the
   will, and going to her knees she said, "Lord, Thou seest that with one
   part of my nature I love this sin, but in my real central self I hate
   it. And now I put my will over on thy side in the matter. I will not do
   it any more. Do thou deliver me." Immediately God took possession of
   the will thus surrendered to Himself, and began to work in her, so that
   His will in the matter gained the mastery over her emotions, and she
   found herself delivered, not by the power of an outward commandment,
   but by the inward power of the Spirit of God working in her that which
   was well pleasing in His sight.

   And now, dear Christian, let me show you how to apply this principle to
   your difficulties. Cease to consider your emotions, for they are only
   the servants; and regard simply your will, which is the real king in
   your being. Is that given up to God? Is that put into His hands? Does
   your will decide to believe? Does your will choose to obey? If this is
   the case, then you are in the Lord's hands, and you decide to believe,
   and you choose to obey; for your will is yourself. And the thing is
   done. The transaction with God is as real, where only your will acts,
   as when every emotion coincides. It does not seem as real to you; but
   in God's sight it is as real. And when you have got hold of this
   secret, and have discovered that you need not attend to your emotions,
   but simply to the state of your will, all the Scripture commands, to
   yield yourself to God, to present yourself a living sacrifice to Him,
   to abide in Christ, to walk in the light, to die to self, become
   possible to you; for you are conscious that, in all these, your will
   can act, and can take God's side: whereas, if it had been your emotions
   that must do it, you would sink down in despair, knowing them to be
   utterly uncontrollable.

   When, then, this feeling of unreality or hypocrisy comes, do not be
   troubled by it. It is only in your emotions, and is not worth a
   moment's thought. Only see to it that your will is in God's hands; that
   your inward self is abandoned to His working; that your choice, your
   decision, is on His side; and there leave it. Your surging emotions,
   like a tossing vessel, which, by degrees, yields to the steady pull of
   the cable, finding themselves attached to the mighty power of God by
   the choice of your will, must inevitably come into captivity, and give
   in their allegiance to Him; and you will verify the truth of the saying
   that, "If any man will do His will, he shall know of the doctrine."

   The will is like a wise mother in a nursery; the feelings are like a
   set of clamoring, crying children. The mother decides upon a certain
   course of action, which she believes to be right and best. The children
   clamor against it, and declare it shall not be. But the mother, knowing
   that she is mistress and not they, pursues her course calmly, unmoved
   by their clamors, and takes no notice of them except in trying to
   soothe and quiet them. The result is that the children are sooner or
   later compelled to yield, and fall in with the decision of the mother.
   Thus order and harmony are preserved. But if that mother should for a
   moment let in the thought that the children were the mistresses instead
   of herself, confusion would reign unchecked. Such instances have been
   known in family life! And in how many souls at this very moment is
   there nothing but confusion, simply because the feelings are allowed to
   govern, instead of the will!

   Remember, then, that the real thing in your experience is what your
   will decides, and not the verdict of your emotions; and that you are
   far more in danger of hypocrisy and untruth in yielding to the
   assertions of your feelings, than in holding fast to the decision of
   your will. So that, if your will is on God's side, you are no hypocrite
   at this moment in claiming as your own the blessed reality of belonging
   altogether to Him, even though your emotions may all declare the
   contrary.

   I am convinced that, throughout the Bible, the expressions concerning
   the "heart" do not mean the emotions, that which we now understand by
   the word "heart"; but they mean the will, the personality of the man,
   the man's own central self; and that the object of God's dealings with
   man is, that this "I" may be yielded up to Him, and this central life
   abandoned to His entire control. It is not the feelings of the man God
   wants, but the man himself.

   Have you given Him yourself, dear reader? Have you abandoned your will
   to His working? Do you consent to surrender the very centre of your
   being into His hands? Then, let the outposts of your nature clamor as
   they may, it is your right to say, even now, with the apostle, "I am
   crucified with Christ; nevertheless, I live; yet not I, but Christ
   liveth in me: and the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the
   faith of the Son of God, who loved me, and gave Himself for me."

   After this chapter had been enclosed to the printer, the following
   remarkable practical illustration of its teaching was presented by
   Pasteur T. Monod, of Paris. It is the experience of a Presbyterian
   minister, which this pasteur had carefully kept for many years.


    NEWBURGH, Sept. 26, 1842.

   Dear Brother,--I take a few moments of that time which I have devoted
   to the Lord, in writing a short epistle to you, His servant. It is
   sweet to feel we are wholly the Lord's, that He has received us and
   called us His. This is religion,--a relinquishment of the principle of
   self-ownership, and the adoption in full of the abiding sentiment, "I
   am not my own, I am bought with a price." Since I last saw you, I have
   been pressing forward, and yet there has been nothing remarkable in my
   experience of which I can speak; indeed I do not know that it is best
   to look for remarkable things; but strive to be holy, as God is holy,
   pressing right on toward the mark of the prize.

   I do not feel myself qualified to instruct you; I can only tell you the
   way in which I was led. The Lord deals differently with different
   souls, and we ought not to attempt to copy the experience of others,
   yet there are certain things which must be attended to by every one who
   is seeking after a clean heart.

   There must be a personal consecration of all to God, a covenant made
   with God, that we will be wholly and forever His. This I made
   intellectually without any change in my feeling, with a heart full of
   hardness and darkness, unbelief and sin and insensibility.

   I covenanted to be the Lord's, and laid all upon the altar, a living
   sacrifice, to the best of my ability. And after I rose from my knees, I
   was conscious of no change in my feeling. I was painfully conscious
   that there was no change. But yet I was sure that I did, with all the
   sincerity and honesty of purpose of which I was capable, make an entire
   and eternal consecration of myself to God. I did not then consider the
   work done by any means, but I engaged to abide in a state of entire
   devotion to God, a living perpetual sacrifice. And now came the effort
   to do this.

   I knew that I must believe that God did accept me, and had come in to
   dwell in my heart. I was conscious I did not believe this, and yet I
   desired to do so. I read with much prayer John's First Epistle, and
   endeavored to assure my heart of God's love to me as an individual. I
   was sensible that my heart was full of evil. I seemed to have no power
   to overcome pride, or to repel evil thoughts, which I abhorred. But
   Christ was manifested to destroy the works of the devil, and it was
   clear that the sin in my heart was the work of the devil. I was
   enabled, therefore, to believe that God was working in me, to will and
   to do, while I was working out my own salvation with fear and
   trembling.

   I was convinced of unbelief, that it was voluntary and criminal. I
   clearly saw that unbelief was an awful sin, it made the faithful God a
   liar. The Lord brought before me my besetting sins which had dominion
   over me, especially preaching myself instead of Christ, and indulging
   self-complacent thoughts after preaching. I was enabled to make myself
   of no reputation, and to seek the honor which cometh from God only.
   Satan struggled hard to beat me back from the Rock of Ages but thanks
   to God I finally hit upon the method of living by the moment, and then
   I found rest.

   I trusted in the blood of Jesus already shed, as a sufficient atonement
   for all my past sins, and the future I committed wholly to the Lord,
   agreeing to do His will under all circumstances as He should make it
   known, and I saw that all I had to do was to look to Jesus for a
   present supply of grace, and to trust Him to cleanse my heart and keep
   me from sin at the present moment.

   I felt shut up to a momentary dependence upon the grace of Christ. I
   would not permit the adversary to trouble me about the past or future,
   for I each moment looked for the supply for that moment. I agreed that
   I would be a child of Abraham, and walk by naked faith in the Word of
   God, and not by inward feelings and emotions: I would seek to be a
   Bible Christian. Since that time the Lord has given me a steady victory
   over sins which before enslaved me. I delight in the Lord, and in His
   Word. I delight in my work as a minister: my fellowship is with the
   Father and with His Son Jesus Christ. I am a babe in Christ; I know my
   progress has been small compared with that made by many. My feelings
   vary, but when I have feelings, I praise God, and I trust in His word;
   and when I am empty and my feelings are gone, I do the same. I have
   covenanted to walk by faith and not by feelings.

   The Lord, I think, is beginning to revive His work among my people.
   "Praise the Lord." May the Lord fill you with all His fulness and give
   you all the mind of Christ. Oh, be faithful! Walk before God and be
   perfect. Preach the Word. Be instant in season and out of season. The
   Lord loves you. He works with you. Rest your soul fully upon that
   promise, "Lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world."


    Your fellow soldier,
    WILLIAM HILL

   There may be some who will object to this teaching, that it ignores the
   work of the blessed Holy Spirit. But I must refer such to the
   introductory chapter of this book, in which I have fully explained
   myself. I am not writing upon that side of the subject; I am
   considering man's part in the matter, and not the part of the Spirit. I
   realize intensely that all a man can do or try to do would be utterly
   useless, if the Holy Spirit did not work in that man continually. And
   it is only because I believe in the Spirit as a mighty power, ever
   present and always ready to do his work, that I can write as I do. But,
   like the wind that bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound
   thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth, the
   operations of the Spirit are beyond our control, and also beyond our
   comprehension.

   The results we know, and the steps on our part which lead to those
   results, but we know nothing more. And yet, like a workman in a great
   manufactory, who does not question the commands of his employer, and is
   not afraid to undertake apparent impossibilities, because he knows
   there is a mighty unseen power, called steam, behind his machinery,
   which can accomplish it all, so we dare to urge upon men that they
   shall simply and courageously set themselves to do that which they are
   commanded to do, because we know that the mighty Spirit will never fail
   to supply at each moment the necessary power for that moment's act. And
   we boldly claim that we who thus write can say from our very hearts, as
   earnestly and as solemnly as any other Christians, We believe in the
   Holy Ghost.
     __________________________________________________________________

    Chapter 8

  IS GOD IN EVERYTHING?

   One of the greatest obstacles to living unwaveringly this life of
   entire surrender is the difficulty of seeing God in everything. People
   say, "I can easily submit to things which come from God; but I cannot
   submit to man, and most of my trials and crosses come through human
   instrumentality." Or they say, "It is all well enough to talk of
   trusting; but when I commit a matter to God, man is sure to come in and
   disarrange it all; and while I have no difficulty in trusting God, I do
   see serious difficulties in the way of trusting men."

   This is no imaginary trouble, but it is of vital importance, and if it
   cannot be met, does really make the life of faith an impossible and
   visionary theory. For nearly everything in life comes to us through
   human instrumentalities, and most of our trials are the result of
   somebody's failure, or ignorance, or carelessness, or sin. We know God
   cannot be the author of these things, and yet unless He is the agent in
   the matter, how can we say to Him about it, "Thy will be done"?

   Besides, what good is there in trusting our affairs to God, if, after
   all, man is to be allowed to come in and disarrange them; and how is it
   possible to live by faith, if human agencies, in whom it would be wrong
   and foolish to trust, are to have a predominant influence in moulding
   our lives?

   Moreover, things in which we can see God's hand always have a sweetness
   in them which consoles while it wounds. But the trials inflicted by man
   are full of bitterness.

   What is needed, then, is to see God in everything, and to receive
   everything directly from His hands, with no intervention of second
   causes. And it is just to this that we must be brought, before we can
   know an abiding experience of entire abandonment and perfect trust. Our
   abandonment must be to God, not to man, and our trust must be in Him,
   not in any arm of flesh, or we shall fail at the first trial.

   The question here confronts us at once, "But is God in everything, and
   have we any warrant from the Scripture for receiving everything from
   His hands, without regarding the second causes which may have been
   instrumental in bringing it about?" I answer to this, unhesitatingly,
   Yes. To the children of God everything comes directly from their
   Father's hand, no matter who or what may have been the apparent agents.
   There are no "second causes" for them.

   The whole teaching of the Bible asserts and implies this. "Not a
   sparrow falls to the ground without our Father." The very hairs of our
   head are all numbered. We are not to be careful about anything, because
   our Father cares for us. We are not to avenge ourselves, because our
   Father has charged Himself with our defence. We are not to fear, for
   the Lord is on our side. No one can be against us, because He is for
   us. We shall not want, for He is our Shepherd. When we pass through the
   rivers they shall not overflow us, and when we walk through the fire we
   shall not be burned, because He will be with us. He shuts the mouths of
   lions, that they cannot hurt us. "He delivereth and rescueth." "He
   changeth the times and the seasons; He removeth kings and setteth up
   kings." A man's heart is in His hand, and, "as the river of water, He
   turneth it whithersoever He will." He ruleth over all the kingdoms of
   the heathen; and in His hand there is power and might, "so that none is
   able to withstand" Him. "He ruleth the raging of the sea; when the
   waves thereof arise, He stilleth them." He "bringeth the counsel of the
   heathen to nought; He maketh the devices of the people of none effect."
   "Whatsoever the Lord pleaseth, that does He in heaven, and in earth, in
   the seas, and all deep places."

   "If thou seest the oppression of the poor, and violent perverting of
   judgment and justice in a province, marvel not at the matter; for He
   that is higher than the highest regardeth; and there be higher than
   they."

   "Lo, these are a part of His ways; but how little a portion is heard of
   Him? But the thunder of His power who can understand?" "Hast thou not
   known, hast thou not heard, that the everlasting God, the Lord, the
   Creator of the ends of the earth, fainteth not, neither is weary? There
   is no searching of His understanding."

   And this "God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in
   trouble. Therefore will not we fear, though the earth be removed, and
   though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea; though the
   waters thereof roar and be troubled; though the mountains shake with
   the swelling thereof." "I will say of the Lord, He is my refuge and my
   fortress, my God, in Him will I trust. Surely He shall deliver thee
   from the snare of the fowler, and from the noisesome pestilence. He
   shall cover thee with His feathers, and under His wings shalt thou
   trust. His truth shall be thy shield and buckler. Thou shalt not be
   afraid for the terror by night, nor for the arrow that flieth by day,
   nor for the pestilence that walketh in darkness, nor for the
   destruction that wasteth at noonday. A thousand shall fall at thy side,
   and ten thousand at thy right hand; but it shall not come nigh thee."
   "Because thou hast made the Lord, which is my refuge, even the Most
   High, thy habitation, there shall no evil befall thee, neither shall
   any plague come nigh thy dwelling. For He shall give His angels charge
   over thee, to keep thee in all thy ways."

   To my own mind, these Scriptures, and many others like them, settle
   forever the question as to the power of second causes in the life of
   the children of God. They are all under the control of our Father, and
   nothing can touch us except with His knowledge and by His permission.
   It may be the sin of man that originates the action, and therefore the
   thing itself cannot be said to be the will of God but by the time it
   reaches us, it has become God's will for us, and must be accepted as
   directly from His hands. No man or company of men, no power in earth or
   heaven, can touch that soul which is abiding in Christ, without first
   passing through Him, and receiving the seal of His permission. If God
   be for us, it matters not who may be against us; nothing can disturb or
   harm us, except He shall see that it is best for us, and shall stand
   aside to let it pass.

   An earthly parent's care for his helpless child is a feeble
   illustration of this. If the child is in its father's arms, nothing can
   touch it without that father's consent, unless he is too weak to
   prevent it. And even if this should be the case, he suffers the harm
   first in his own person, before he allows it to reach his child. And if
   an earthly parent would thus care for his little helpless one, how much
   more will our Heavenly Father, whose love is infinitely greater, and
   whose strength and wisdom can never be baffled! I am afraid there are
   some, even of God's own children, who scarcely think that He is equal
   to themselves in tenderness, and love, and thoughtful care; and who in
   their secret thoughts, charge Him with a neglect and indifference of
   which they would feel themselves incapable. The truth really is, that
   His care is infinitely superior to any possibilities of human care; and
   that He who counts the very hairs of our head, and suffers not a
   sparrow to fall without Him, takes note of the minutest matters that
   can affect the lives of His children, and regulates them all according
   to His own sweet will, let their origin be what they may.

   The instances of this are numberless. Take Joseph. What could have
   seemed more apparently on the face of it to be the result of sin, and
   utterly contrary to the will of God, than his being sold into slavery?
   And yet Joseph, in speaking of it, said, "As for you, ye thought evil
   against me: but God meant it unto good." "Now, therefore, be not
   grieved nor angry with yourselves, that ye sold me hither, for God did
   send me before you to preserve life." To the eye of sense it was surely
   Joseph's wicked brethren who had sent him into Egypt; and yet Joseph,
   looking at it with the eye of faith, could say, "God sent me." It had
   been undoubtedly a grievous sin in his brethren, but, by the time it
   had reached Joseph, it had become God's will for him, and was in truth,
   though at first it did not look so, the greatest blessing of his whole
   life. And thus we see how the Lord can make even the wrath of man to
   praise Him, and how all things, even the sins of others, shall work
   together for good to them that love Him.

   I learned this lesson practically and experimentally long years before
   I knew the scriptural truth concerning it. I was attending a
   prayer-meeting held for the promotion of scriptural holiness, when a
   strange lady rose to speak, and I looked at her, wondering who she
   could be, little thinking she was to bring a message to my soul which
   would teach me such a grand lesson. She said she had had great
   difficulty in living the life of faith, on account of the second causes
   that seemed to her to control nearly everything that concerned her. Her
   perplexity became so great, that at last she began to ask God to teach
   her the truth about it, whether He really was in everything or not.
   After praying this for a few days, she had what she described as a
   vision. She thought she was in a perfectly dark place, and that there
   advanced towards her from a distance a body of light, which gradually
   surrounded and enveloped her and everything around her. As it
   approached, a voice seemed to say, "This is the presence of God; this
   is the presence of God." While surrounded with this presence, all the
   great and awful things in life seemed to pass before her,--fighting
   armies, wicked men, raging beasts, storms and pestilences, sin and
   suffering of every kind.

   She shrank back at first in terror, but she soon saw that the presence
   of God so surrounded and enveloped each one of these, that not a lion
   could reach out its paw, nor a bullet fly through the air, except as
   His presence moved out of the way to permit it. And she saw that, let
   there be ever so thin a sheet, as it were, of this glorious presence
   between herself and the most terrible violence, not a hair of her head
   could be ruffled, nor anything touch her, unless the presence divided
   to let the evil through. Then all the small and annoying things of life
   passed before her, and equally she saw that these all were so enveloped
   in this presence of God that not a cross look, not a harsh word, nor
   petty trial of any kind, could reach her unless His presence moved out
   of the way to let them through.

   Her difficulty vanished. Her question was answered forever. God was in
   everything; and to her henceforth there were no second causes. She saw
   that her life came to her day by day and hour by hour directly from His
   hand, let the agencies which should seem to control it be what they
   might. And never again had she found any difficulty in an abiding
   consent to His will and an unwavering trust in His care.

   If we look at the seen things, we shall not be able to understand the
   secret of this. But the children of God are called to look, "not at the
   things which are seen: for the things which are seen are temporal, but
   the things which are not seen are eternal." Could we but see with our
   bodily eyes His unseen forces surrounding us on every side, we would
   walk through this world in an impregnable fortress, which nothing could
   ever overthrow or penetrate, for "the angel of the Lord encampeth round
   about them that fear Him, and delivereth them."

   We have a striking illustration of this in the history of Elisha. The
   king of Syria was warring against Israel, but his evil designs were
   continually frustrated by the prophet; and at last he sent his army to
   the prophet's own city for the express purpose of taking him captive.
   We read, "He sent thither horses and chariots and a great host; and
   they came by night and compassed the city about." This was the seen
   thing. And the servant of the prophet, whose eyes had not yet been
   opened to see the unseen things, was alarmed. And we read, "And when
   the servant of the man of God was risen early and gone forth, behold an
   host compassed the city, both with horses and chariots. And his servant
   said unto him, Alas, my master, how shall we do?" But his master could
   see the unseen things, and he replied, "Fear not; for they that be with
   us are more than they that be with them." And then he prayed, saying,
   "Lord, I pray thee, open his eyes that he may see. And the Lord opened
   the eyes of the young man, and he saw; and behold, the mountain was
   full of horses and chariots of fire round about Elisha."

   The presence of God is the fortress of His people. Nothing can
   withstand it. At His presence the wicked perish; the earth trembles;
   the hills melt like wax; the cities are broken down; "the heavens also
   dropped, and Sinai itself was moved at the presence of God." And in the
   secret of this presence He has promised to hide His people from the
   pride of man, and from the strife of tongues. "My presence shall go
   with thee," He says, "and I will give thee rest."

   I wish it were only possible to make every Christian see this truth as
   plainly as I see it; for I am convinced it is the only clue to a
   completely restful life. Nothing else will enable a soul to live only
   in the present moment, as we are commanded to do, and to take no
   thought for the morrow. Nothing else will take all the risks and
   "supposes" out of a Christian's heart, and enable him to say, "Surely
   goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life." Abiding in
   God's presence, we run no risks; and such a soul can triumphantly
   say,--


   "I know not what it is to doubt,

   My heart is alway gay;

   I run no risks, for, come what will,

   God alway has His way."

   I once heard of a colored woman who earned a precarious living by daily
   labor, but who was a joyous, triumphant Christian. "Ah! Nancy," said a
   gloomy Christian lady to her one day, who almost disapproved of her
   constant cheerfulness, and yet envied it,--"ah! Nancy, it is all well
   enough to be happy now; but I should think the thoughts of your future
   would sober you. Only suppose, for instance, that you should have a
   spell of sickness and be unable to work; or suppose your present
   employers should move away, and no one else should give you anything to
   do; or suppose--" "Stop!" cried Nancy, "I never supposes. De Lord is my
   shepherd, and I knows I shall not want. And, honey," she added to her
   gloomy friend, "it's all dem supposes as is makin' you so misable.
   You'd better give dem all up, and just trust de Lord."

   There is one text that will take all the "suppose" out of a believer's
   life, if only it is received and acted out in a childlike faith; it is
   in Heb. 3:5, 6: "Be content, therefore, with such things as ye have;
   for He hath said I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee"; so that we
   may boldly say, "THE LORD IS MY HELPER, AND I WILL NOT FEAR WHAT MAN
   SHALL DO UNTO ME." What if dangers of all sorts shall threaten you from
   every side, and the malice or foolishness or ignorance of men shall
   combine to do you harm? You may face every possible contingency with
   these triumphant words, "The Lord is my helper, and I will not fear
   what man shall do unto me." If the Lord is your helper, how can you
   fear what man may do unto you? There is no man in this world, nor
   company of men, that can touch you, unless your God, in whom you trust,
   shall please to let them. "He will not suffer thy foot to be moved: He
   that keepeth thee will not slumber. Behold, He that keepeth Israel
   shall neither slumber nor sleep. The Lord is thy keeper; the Lord is
   thy shade upon thy right hand. The sun shall not smite thee by day nor
   the moon by night. The Lord shall preserve thee from all evil: He shall
   preserve thy soul. The Lord shall preserve thy going out, and thy
   coming in, from this time forth, and even for evermore."

   Nothing else but this seeing God in everything will make us loving and
   patient with those who annoy and trouble us. They will be to us then
   only the instruments for accomplishing His tender and wise purposes
   towards us, and we shall even find ourselves at last inwardly thanking
   them for the blessings they bring us.

   Nothing else will completely put an end to all murmuring or rebelling
   thoughts. Christians often feel a liberty to murmur against man, when
   they would not dare to murmur against God. But this way of receiving
   things would make it impossible ever to murmur. If our Father permits a
   trial to come, it must be because that trial is the sweetest and best
   thing that could happen to us, and we must accept it with thanks from
   His dear hand. The trial itself may be hard to flesh and blood, and I
   do not mean that we can like or enjoy the suffering of it. But we can
   and must love the will of God in the trial, for His will is always
   sweet, whether it be in joy or in sorrow.

   Our trials may be our chariots. We long for some victory over sin and
   self, and we ask God to grant it to us. His answer comes in the form of
   a trial which He means shall be the chariot to bear us to the
   longed-for triumph. We may either let it roll over us and crush us as a
   Juggernaut car, or we may mount into it and ride triumphantly onward.
   Joseph's chariots, which bore him on to the place of his exaltation,
   were the trials of being sold into slavery, and being cast unjustly
   into prison. Our chariots may be much more insignificant things than
   these; they may be nothing but irritating people or uncomfortable
   circumstances. But whatever they are, God means them to be our cars of
   triumph, which shall bear us onward to the victories we have prayed
   for. If we are impatient in our dispositions and long to be made
   patient, our chariot will probably be a trying person to live in the
   house with us, whose ways or words will rasp our very souls. If we
   accept the trial as from God, and bow our necks to the yoke, we shall
   find it just the discipline that will most effectually produce in us
   the very grace of patience for which we have asked.

   God does not order the wrong thing, but He uses it for our blessing;
   just as He used the cruelty of Joseph's wicked brethren, and the false
   accusations of Pharaoh's wife. In short, this way of seeing our Father
   in everything makes life one long thanksgiving, and gives a rest of
   heart, and more than that, a gayety of spirit, that is unspeakable.
   Someone says, "God's will on earth is always joy, always tranquillity."
   And since He must have His own way concerning His children, into what
   wonderful green pastures of inward rest, and beside what blessedly
   still waters of inward refreshment, is the soul led that learns this
   secret.

   If the will of God is our will, and if He always has His way, then we
   always have our way also, and we reign in a perpetual kingdom. He who
   sides with God cannot fail to win in every encounter; and whether the
   result shall be joy or sorrow, failure or success, death or life, we
   may, under all circumstances, join in the apostle's shout of victory,
   "Thanks be unto God, which always causeth us to triumph in Christ!"
     __________________________________________________________________

    Chapter 9

  GROWTH

   When the believer has been brought to the point of entire surrender and
   perfect trust, and finds himself dwelling and walking in a life of
   happy communion and perfect peace, the question naturally arises, "Is
   this the end?" I answer emphatically "No, it is only the beginning."

   And yet this is so little understood, that one of the greatest
   objections made against the advocates of this life of faith, is, that
   they do not believe in growth in grace. They are supposed to teach that
   the soul arrives at a state of perfection beyond which there is no
   advance, and that all the exhortations in the Scripture which point
   towards growth and development are rendered void by this teaching.

   As exactly the opposite of this is true, I have thought it important
   next to consider this subject carefully, that I may, if possible, fully
   answer such objections, and may also show what is the scriptural place
   to grow in, and how the soul is to grow.

   The text which is most frequently quoted is 2 Pet. 3:18, "But grow in
   grace, and in the knowledge of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ." Now
   this text exactly expresses what we believe to be God's will for us,
   and what also we believe He has made it possible for us to experience.
   We accept, in their very fullest meaning, all the commands and promises
   concerning our being no more children, and our growing up into Christ
   in all things, until we come unto a perfect man, unto the measure of
   the stature of the fulness of Christ. We rejoice that we need not
   continue always to be babes, needing milk; but that we may, by reason
   of use and development become such as have need of strong meat, skilful
   in the word of righteousness, and able to discern both good and evil.
   And none would grieve more than we at the thought of any finality in
   the Christian life beyond which there could be no advance.

   But then we believe in a growing that does really produce maturity, and
   in a development that, as a fact, does bring forth ripe fruit. We
   expect to reach the aim set before us, and if we do not, we feel sure
   there must be some fault in our growing. No parent would be satisfied
   with the growth of his child, if, day after day, and year after year,
   it remained the same helpless babe it was in the first months of its
   life; and no farmer would feel comfortable under such growing of his
   grain as should stop short at the blade, and never produce the ear, nor
   the full corn in the ear. Growth, to be real, must be progressive, and
   the days and weeks and months must see a development and increase of
   maturity in the thing growing. But is this the case with a large part
   of that which is called growth in grace? Does not the very Christian
   who is the most strenuous in his longings and in his efforts after it,
   too often find that at the end of the year he is not as far on in his
   Christian experience as at the beginning, and that his zeal, and his
   devotedness, and his separation from the world are not as whole-souled
   or complete as when his Christian life first began?

   I was once urging upon a company of Christians the privileges and rest
   of an immediate and definite step into the land of promise, when a lady
   of great intelligence interrupted me, with what she evidently felt to
   be a complete rebuttal of all I had been saying, exclaiming, "Ah! but,
   my dear friend, I believe in growing in grace." "How long have you been
   growing?" I asked. "About twenty-five years," was her answer. "And how
   much more unworldly and devoted to the Lord are you now than when you
   began your Christian life?" I continued. "Alas!" was the answer, "I
   fear I am not nearly so much so"; and with this answer her eyes were
   opened to see that at all events her way of growing had not been
   successful, but quite the reverse.

   The trouble with her, and every other such case, is simply this, they
   are trying to grow into grace, instead of in it. They are like a
   rosebush which the gardener should plant in the hard, stony path, with
   a view to its growing into the flower-bed, and which would of course
   dwindle and wither in consequence, instead of flourishing and maturing.
   The children of Israel wandering in the wilderness are a perfect
   picture of this sort of growing. They were travelling about for forty
   years, taking many weary steps, and finding but little rest from their
   wanderings, and yet, at the end of it all, were no nearer the promised
   land than they were at the beginning. When they started on their
   wanderings at Kadesh Barnea, they were at the borders of the land, and
   a few steps would have taken them into it.

   When they ended their wanderings in the plains of Moab, they were also
   at its borders; only with this great difference, that now there was a
   river to cross, which at first there would not have been. All their
   wanderings and fightings in the wilderness had not put them in
   possession of one inch of the promised land. In order to get possession
   of this land it was necessary first to be in it; and in order to grow
   in grace, it is necessary first to be planted in grace. But when once
   in the land, their conquest was very rapid; and when once planted in
   grace, the growth of the soul in one month will exceed that of years in
   any other soil. For grace is a most fruitful soil, and the plants that
   grow therein are plants of a marvellous growth. They are tended by a
   Divine Husbandman, and are warmed by the Sun of Righteousness, and
   watered by the dew from Heaven. Surely it is no wonder that they bring
   forth fruit, "some an hundred-fold, some sixty-fold, some thirty-fold."

   But, it will be asked, what is meant by growing in grace? It is
   difficult to answer this question because so few people have any
   conception of what the grace of God really is. To say that it is free,
   unmerited favor, only expresses a little of its meaning. It is the
   wondrous, boundless love of God, poured out upon us without stint or
   measure, not according to our deserving, but according to His infinite
   heart of love, which passeth knowledge, so unfathomable are its heights
   and depths. I sometimes think we give a totally different meaning to
   the word "love" when it is associated with God, from that we so well
   understand in its human application. But if ever human love was tender
   and self-sacrificing and devoted; if ever it could bear and forbear; if
   ever it could suffer gladly for its loved ones; if ever it was willing
   to pour itself out in a lavish abandonment for the comfort or pleasure
   of its objects,--then infinitely more is Divine love tender and
   self-sacrificing and devoted, and glad to bear and forbear, and to
   suffer, and to lavish its best of gifts and blessings upon the objects
   of its love. Put together all the tenderest love you know of, dear
   reader, the deepest you have ever felt, and the strongest that has ever
   been poured out upon you, and heap upon it all the love of all the
   loving human hearts in the world, and then multiply it by infinity, and
   you will begin perhaps to have some faint glimpses of what the love of
   God in Christ Jesus is. And this is grace. And to be planted in grace
   is to live in the very heart of this love, to be enveloped by it, to be
   steeped in it, to revel in it, to know nothing else but love only and
   love always, to grow day by day in the knowledge of it, and in faith in
   it, to intrust everything to its care, and to have no shadow of a doubt
   but that it will surely order all things well.

   To grow in grace is opposed to all self-dependence, to all self-effort,
   to all legality of every kind. It is to put our growing, as well as
   everything else, into the hands of the Lord, and leave it with Him. It
   is to be so satisfied with our Husbandman, and with His skill and
   wisdom, that not a question will cross our minds as to His modes of
   treatment or His plan of cultivation. It is to grow as the lilies grow,
   or as the babes grow, without a care and without anxiety; to grow by
   the power of an inward life principle that cannot help but grow; to
   grow because we live and therefore must grow; to grow because He who
   has planted us has planted a growing thing, and has made us to grow.

   Surely this is what our Lord meant when He said "Consider the lilies,
   how they grow; they toil not, neither do they spin: and yet I say unto
   you, that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of
   these." Or, when He says again, "Which of you by taking thought can add
   one cubit unto his stature?" There is no effort in the growing of a
   child or of a lily. They do not toil nor spin, they do not stretch nor
   strain, they do not make any effort of any kind to grow; they are not
   conscious even that they are growing; but by an inward life principle,
   and through the nurturing care of God's providence, and the fostering
   of caretaker or gardener, by the heat of the sun and the falling of the
   rain, they grow and grow.

   And the result is sure. Even Solomon, our Lord says, in all his glory,
   was not arrayed like one of these. Solomon's array cost much toiling
   and spinning, and gold and silver in abundance, but the lily's array
   costs none of these. And though we may toil and spin to make for
   ourselves beautiful spiritual garments, and may strain and stretch in
   our efforts after spiritual growth, we shall accomplish nothing; for no
   man by taking thought can add one cubit to his stature; and no array of
   ours can ever equal the beautiful dress with which the great Husbandman
   clothes the plants that grow in His garden of grace and under His
   fostering care.

   If I could but make each one of my readers realize how utterly helpless
   we are in this matter of growing, I am convinced a large part of the
   strain would be taken out of many lives at once. Imagine a child
   possessed of the monomania that he would not grow unless he made some
   personal effort after it, and who should insist upon a combination of
   rope and pulleys whereby to stretch himself up to the desired height.
   He might, it is true, spend his days and years in a weary strain, but
   after all there would be no change in the inexorable fact, "No man by
   taking thought can add one cubit unto his stature"; and his years of
   labor would be only wasted, if they did not really hinder the
   longed-for end.

   Imagine a lily trying to clothe itself in beautiful colors and graceful
   lines, stretching its leaves and stems to make them grow, and seeking
   to manage the clouds and the sunshine, that its needs might be all
   judiciously supplied!

   And yet in these two pictures we have, I conceive, only too true a
   picture of what many Christians are trying to do; who, knowing they
   ought to grow, and feeling within them an instinct that longs for
   growth, yet think to accomplish it by toiling, and spinning, and
   stretching, and straining, and pass their lives in such a round of
   self-effort as is a weariness to contemplate.

   Grow, dear friends, but grow, I beseech you, in God's way, which is the
   only effectual way. See to it that you are planted in grace, and then
   let the Divine Husbandman cultivate you in His own way and by His own
   means. Put yourselves out in the sunshine of His presence, and let the
   dew of heaven come down upon you, and see what will come of it. Leaves
   and flowers and fruit must surely come in their season, for your
   Husbandman is a skilful one, and He never fails in His harvesting. Only
   see to it that you interpose no hindrance to the shining of the Sun of
   Righteousness or the falling of the dew from Heaven. A very thin
   covering may serve to keep off the heat or the moisture, and the plant
   may wither even in their midst; and the slightest barrier between your
   soul and Christ may cause you to dwindle and fade as a plant in a
   cellar or under a bushel. Keep the sky clear. Open wide every avenue of
   your being to receive the blessed influences our Divine Husbandman may
   bring to bear upon you. Bask in the sunshine of His love. Drink in of
   the waters of His goodness. Keep your face up-turned to Him. Look, and
   your soul shall live.

   You need make no efforts to grow; but let your efforts instead be all
   concentrated on this, that you abide in the Vine. The Husbandman who
   has the care of the vine, will care for its branches also, and will so
   prune and purge and water and tend them that they will grow and bring
   forth fruit, and their fruit shall remain; and, like the lily, they
   shall find themselves arrayed in apparel so glorious that that of
   Solomon will be as nothing to it.

   What if you seem to yourselves to be planted at this moment in a desert
   soil where nothing can grow! Put yourself absolutely into the hands of
   the great Husbandman, and He will at once make that desert blossom as
   the rose, and will cause springs and fountains of water to start up out
   of its sandy wastes; for the promise is sure, that the man who trusts
   in the Lord "shall be as a tree planted by the waters, and that
   spreadeth out her roots by the river, and shall not see when heat
   cometh, but her leaf shall be green; and shall not be careful in the
   year of drought, neither shall cease from yielding fruit." It is the
   great prerogative of our Divine Husbandman that He is able to turn any
   soil, whatever it may be like, into the soil of grace, the moment we
   put our growing into His hands. He does not need to transplant us into
   a different field, but right where we are, with just the circumstances
   that surround us, He makes His sun to shine and His dew to fall upon
   us, and transforms the very things that were before our greatest
   hindrances into the chiefest and most blessed means of our growth. I
   care not what the circumstances may be, His wonder-working power can
   accomplish this. And we must trust Him with it all. Surely He is a
   Husbandman we can trust. And if He sends storms, or winds, or rains, or
   sunshine, all must be accepted at His hands with the most unwavering
   confidence that He who has undertaken to cultivate us, and to bring us
   to maturity, knows the very best way of accomplishing His end, and
   regulates the elements, which are all at His disposal, expressly with a
   view to our most rapid growth.

   Let me entreat of you, then, to give up all your efforts after growing,
   and simply to let yourselves grow. Leave it all to the Husbandman,
   whose care it is, and who alone is able to manage it. No difficulties
   in your case can baffle Him. No dwarfing of your growth in years that
   are past, no apparent dryness of your inward springs of life, no
   crookedness or deformity in any of your past development, can in the
   least mar the perfect work that He will accomplish, if you will only
   put yourselves absolutely into His hands, and let Him have His own way
   with you. His own gracious promise to His backsliding children assures
   you of this. "I will heal their backslidings," He says: "I will love
   them freely, for mine anger is turned away from him. I will be as the
   dew unto Israel; he shall grow as the lily, and cast forth his roots as
   Lebanon. His branches shall spread, and his beauty shall be as the
   olive-tree, and his smell as Lebanon. They that dwell under His shadow
   shall return; they shall revive as the corn, and grow as the vine; the
   scent thereof shall be as the wine of Lebanon." And again He says, "Be
   not afraid, for the pastures of the wilderness do spring, for the tree
   beareth her fruit, the fig-tree and the vine do yield their strength.
   And the floors shall be full of wheat, and the fats shall overflow with
   wine and oil. And I will restore to you the years that the locust hath
   eaten; and ye shall eat in plenty and be satisfied, and praise the name
   of the Lord your God, who hath dealt wondrously with you; and my people
   shall never be ashamed."

   Oh! that you could but know just what your Lord meant when He said,
   "Consider the lilies, how they grow; for they toil not, neither do they
   spin." Surely these words give us a picture of a life and of a growth
   far different from the ordinary life and growth of Christians; a life
   of rest, and a growth without effort; and yet a life and a growth
   crowned with glorious results. And to every soul that will thus become
   a lily in the garden of the Lord, and will grow as the lilies grow, the
   same glorious array will be surely given as is given them; and they
   will know the fulfilment of that wonderful mystical passage concerning
   their Beloved, that "He feedeth among the lilies."

   This is the sort of growth in grace in which we who have entered into
   the life of full trust believe: a growth which brings the desired
   results, which blossoms out into flower and fruit, and becomes a tree
   planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in his
   season; whose leaf also does not wither, and who prospers in whatsoever
   he doeth. And we rejoice to know that there are growing up now in the
   Lord's heritage many such plants, who, as the lilies behold the face of
   the sun and grow thereby, are, by beholding as in a glass the glory of
   the Lord, being changed into the same image from glory to glory, even
   as by the spirit of the Lord.

   Should you ask such, how it is that they grow so rapidly and with such
   success, their answer would be that they are not concerned about their
   growing, and are hardly conscious that they do grow; that their Lord
   has told them to abide in Him, and has promised that if they do thus
   abide, they shall certainly bring forth much fruit; and that they are
   concerned only about the abiding, which is their part, and leave the
   cultivating and the growing and the training and pruning to their good
   Husbandman, who alone is able to manage these things or bring them
   about. You will find that such souls are not engaged in watching self,
   but in looking unto Jesus. They do not toil nor spin for their
   spiritual garments, but leave themselves in the hands of the Lord to be
   arrayed as it may please Him. Self-effort and self-dependence are at an
   end with them. Their interest in self is gone, transferred over into
   the hands of another. Self has become really nothing, and Christ alone
   is all in all to such as these. And the blessed result is, that not
   even Solomon, in all his glory, was arrayed like these shall be.

   Let us look at this subject practically. We all know that growing is
   not a thing of effort, but is the result of an inward life, a principle
   of growth. All the stretching and pulling in the world could not make a
   dead oak grow. But a live oak grows without stretching. It is plain,
   therefore, that the essential thing is to get within you the growing
   life, and then you cannot help but grow. And this life is the life hid
   with Christ in God, the wonderful divine life of an indwelling Holy
   Ghost. Be filled with this, dear believer, and, whether you are
   conscious of it or not, you must grow, you cannot help growing. Do not
   trouble about your growing, but see to it that you have the growing
   life. Abide in the Vine. Let the life from Him flow through all your
   spiritual veins. Interpose no barrier to His mighty life-giving power,
   working in you all the good pleasure of His will. Yield yourself up
   utterly to His sweet control. Put your growing into His hands, as
   completely as you have put all your other affairs. Suffer Him to manage
   it as He will. Do not concern yourself about it, nor even think of it.
   Trust Him absolutely, and always. Accept each moment's dispensation as
   it comes to you, from His dear hands, as being the needed sunshine or
   dew for that moment's growth. Say a continual "Yes" to your Father's
   will.

   Heretofore you have perhaps tried, as so many do, to be both the lily
   and the gardener, both the vineyard and the husbandman. You have taken
   upon your shoulders the burdens and responsibilities that belong only
   to the Divine Husbandman, and which He alone is able to bear.
   Henceforth consent to take your rightful place and to be only what you
   really are. Say to yourself, If I am the garden only, and not the
   gardener, if I am the vine only, and not the husbandman, it is surely
   essential to my right growth and well being that I should keep the
   place and act the part of the garden, and should not usurp the
   gardener's place, nor try to act the gardener's part.

   Do not seek then to choose your own soil, nor the laying out of your
   borders; do not plant your own seeds, nor dig about, nor prune, nor
   watch over your own vines. Be content with what the Divine Husbandman
   arranges for you, and with the care He gives. Let Him choose the sort
   of plants and fruits He sees best to cultivate, and grow a potato as
   gladly as a rose, if such be His will, and homely everyday virtues as
   willingly as exalted fervors. Be satisfied with the seasons He sends,
   with the sunshine and rain He gives, with the rapidity or slowness of
   your growth, in short, with all His dealings and processes, no matter
   how little we may comprehend them.

   There is infinite repose in this. As the viole rests in its little
   nook, receiving contentedly its daily portion satisfied to let rains
   fall, and suns rise, and the earth to whirl, without one anxious pang,
   so must we repose in the present as God gives it to us, accepting
   contentedly our daily portion, and with no anxiety as to all that may
   be whirling around us, in His great creative and redemptive plan.


   The wind that blows can never kill

   The tree God plants;

   It bloweth east, it bloweth west,

   The tender leaves have little rest,

   But any wind that blows is best.

   The tree God plants

   Strikes deeper root, grows higher still,

   Spreads wider boughs, for God's good-will

   Meets all its wants.


   There is no frost hath power to blight

   The tree God shields;

   The roots are warm beneath soft snows,

   And when spring comes it surely knows,

   And every bud to blossom grows.

   The tree God shields

   Grows on apace by day and night,

   Till, sweet to taste and fair to sight,

   Its fruit it yields.


   There is no storm hath power to blast

   The tree God knows;

   No thunder-bolt, nor beating rain,

   Nor lightning flash, nor hurricane;

   When they are spent it doth remain.

   The tree God knows

   Through every tempest standeth fast,

   And, from its first day to its last,

   Still fairer grows.


   If in the soul's still garden-place

   A seed God sows--

   A little seed--it soon will grow,

   And far and near all men will know

   For heavenly land He bids it blow.

   A seed God sows,

   And up it springs by day and night;

   Through life, through death, it groweth right,

   Forever grows.
     __________________________________________________________________

    Chapter 10

  SERVICE

   There is, perhaps, no part of Christian experience where a greater
   change is known upon entering into the life hid with Christ in God,
   than in the matter of service. In all the lower forms of Christian
   life, service is apt to have more or less of bondage in it; that is, it
   is one purely as a matter of duty, and often as a trial and a cross.
   Certain things, which at the first may have been a joy and delight,
   become weary tasks, performed faithfully, perhaps, but with much secret
   disinclination, and many confessed or unconfessed wishes that they need
   not be done at all, or at least that they need not be done so often.
   The soul finds itself saying, instead of the "May I" of love, the "Must
   I" of duty. The yoke, which was at first easy, begins to gall, and the
   burden feels heavy instead of light.

   One dear Christian expressed it once to me in this way. "When I was
   first converted," she said, "I was so full of joy and love that I was
   only too glad and thankful to be allowed to do anything for my Lord,
   and I eagerly entered every open door. But after a while, as my early
   joy faded away, and my love burned less fervently, I began to wish I
   had not been quite so eager; for I found myself involved in lines of
   service which were gradually becoming very distasteful and burdensome
   to me. I could not very well give them up, since I had begun them,
   without exciting great remark, and yet I longed to do so increasingly.
   I was expected to visit the sick, and pray beside their beds. I was
   expected to attend prayer-meetings, and speak at them. I was expected
   to be always ready for every effort in Christian work, and the sense of
   these expectations bowed me down continually. At last it became so
   unspeakably burdensome to me to live the sort of Christian life I had
   entered upon, and was expected by all around me to live, that I felt as
   if any kind of manual labor would have been easier, and I would have
   preferred, infinitely, scrubbing all day on my hands and knees, to
   being compelled to go through the treadmill of my daily Christian work.
   I envied," she said, "the servants in the kitchen, and the women at the
   wash-tubs."

   This may seem to some like a strong statement: but does it not present
   a vivid picture of some of your own experiences, dear Christian? Have
   you never gone to your work as a slave to his daily task, knowing it to
   be your duty, and that therefore you must do it, but rebounding like an
   India-rubber ball back into your real interests and pleasures the
   moment your work was over?

   Of course you have known this was the wrong way to feel, and have been
   ashamed of it from the bottom of your heart, but still you have seen no
   way to help it. You have not loved your work, and, could you have done
   so with an easy conscience, you would have been glad to have given it
   up altogether.

   Or, if this does not describe your case, perhaps another picture will.
   You do love your work in the abstract; but, in the doing of it, you
   find so many cares and responsibilities connected with it, so many
   misgivings and doubts as to your own capacity or fitness, that it
   becomes a very heavy burden, and you go to it bowed down and weary,
   before the labor has even begun. Then also you are continually
   distressing yourself about the results of your work, and greatly
   troubled if they are not just what you would like, and this of itself
   is a constant burden.

   Now from all these forms of bondage the soul is entirely delivered that
   enters fully into the blessed life of faith. In the first place,
   service of any sort becomes delightful to it, because, having
   surrendered its will into the keeping of the Lord, He works in it to
   will and to do of His good pleasure, and the soul finds itself really
   wanting to do the things God wants it to do. It is always very pleasant
   to do the things we want to do, let them be ever so difficult of
   accomplishment, or involve ever so much of bodily weariness. If a man's
   will is really set on a thing, he regards with a sublime indifference
   the obstacles that lie in the way of his reaching it, and laughs to
   himself at the idea of any opposition or difficulties hindering him.
   How many men have gone gladly and thankfully to the ends of the world
   in search of worldly fortunes, or to fulfil worldly ambitions, and have
   scorned the thoughts of any cross connected with it! How many mothers
   have congratulated themselves and rejoiced over the honor done their
   sons in being promoted to some place of power and usefulness in their
   country's service, although it has involved perhaps years of
   separation, and a life of hardship for their dear ones? And yet these
   same men and these very mothers would have felt and said that they were
   taking up crosses too heavy almost to be borne, had the service of
   Christ required the same sacrifice of home, and friends, and worldly
   ease. It is altogether the way we look at things, whether we think they
   are crosses or not. And I am ashamed to think that any Christian should
   ever put on a long face and shed tears over doing a thing for Christ,
   which a worldly man would be only too glad to do for money.

   What we need in the Christian life is to get believers to want to do
   God's will, as much as other people want to do their own will. And this
   is the idea of the Gospel. It is what God intended for us; and it is
   what He has promised. In describing the new covenant in Heb. 8:6-13, He
   says it shall no more be the old covenant made on Sinai, that is, a law
   given from the outside, controlling a man by force, but it shall be a
   law written within constraining a man by love. "I will put my laws," He
   says, "in their mind, and write them in their hearts." This can mean
   nothing but that we shall love His law, for anything written on our
   hearts we must love. And putting it into our minds is surely the same
   as God working in us to "will and to do of His good pleasure," and
   means that we shall will what God wills, and shall obey His sweet
   commands, not because it is our duty to do so, but because we ourselves
   want to do what He wants us to do. Nothing could possibly be conceived
   more effectual than this. How often have we thought when dealing with
   our children, "Oh, if I could only get inside of them and make them
   want to do just what I want, how easy it would be to manage them then!"
   And how often practically in experience we have found that, to deal
   with cross-grained people, we must carefully avoid suggesting our
   wishes to them, but must in some way induce them to suggest them
   themselves, sure that then there will be no opposition to contend with.
   And we, who are by nature a stiff-necked people, always rebel more or
   less against a law from outside of us, while we joyfully embrace the
   same law springing up within.

   God's plan for us therefore is to get possession of the inside of a
   man, to take the control and management of his will, and to work it for
   him; and then obedience is easy and a delight, and service becomes
   perfect freedom, until the Christian is forced to exclaim, "This happy
   service! Who could dream earth had such liberty?"

   What you need to do then, dear Christian, if you are in bondage, is to
   put your will over completely into the hands of your Lord, surrendering
   to Him the entire control of it. Say, "Yes, Lord, YES!" to everything;
   and trust Him so to work in you to will, as to bring your whole wishes
   and affections into conformity with His own sweet and lovable and most
   lovely will. I have seen this done over and over, in cases where it
   looked beforehand an utterly impossible thing. In one case, where a
   lady had been for years rebelling fearfully against a thing which she
   knew was right, but which she hated, I saw her, out of the depths of
   despair and without any feeling, give her will in that matter up into
   the hands of her Lord, and begin to say to Him, "Thy will be done; thy
   will be done!" And in one short hour that very thing began to look
   sweet and precious to her. It is wonderful what miracles God works in
   wills that are utterly surrendered to Him. He turns hard things into
   easy, and bitter things into sweet. It is not that He puts easy things
   in the place of the hard, but He actually changes the hard thing into
   an easy one. And this is salvation. It is grand. Do try it, you who are
   going about your daily Christian living as to a hard and weary task,
   and see if your divine Master will not transform the very life you live
   now as a bondage, into the most delicious liberty!

   Or again, if you do love His will in the abstract, but find the doing
   of it hard and burdensome, from this also there is deliverance in the
   wonderful life of faith. For in this life no burdens are carried, nor
   anxieties felt. The Lord is our burden-bearer, and upon Him we must lay
   off every care. He says, in effect, Be careful for nothing, but just
   make your requests known to Me, and I will attend to them all. Be
   careful for nothing, He says, not even your service. Above all, I
   should think, our service, because we know ourselves to be so utterly
   helpless in this, that even if we were careful, it would not amount to
   anything. What have we to do with thinking whether we are fit or not!
   The Master-workman surely has a right to use any tool He pleases for
   His own work, and it is plainly not the business of the tool to decide
   whether it is the right one to be used or not. He knows; and if He
   chooses to use us, of course we must be fit. And in truth, if we only
   knew it, our chiefest fitness is in our utter helplessness. His
   strength can only be made perfect in our weakness. I can give you a
   convincing illustration of this.

   I was once visiting an idiot asylum and looking at the children going
   through dumb-bell exercises. Now we all know that it is a very
   difficult thing for idiots to manage their movements. They have
   strength enough, generally, but no skill to use this strength, and as a
   consequence cannot do much. And in these dumb-bell exercises this
   deficiency was very apparent. They made all sorts of awkward movements.
   Now and then, by a happy chance, they would make a movement in harmony
   with the music and the teacher's directions, but for the most part all
   was out of harmony. One little girl, however, I noticed, who made
   perfect movements. Not a jar nor a break disturbed the harmony of her
   exercises. And the reason was, not that she had more strength than the
   others, but that she had no strength at all. She could not so much as
   close her hands over the dumb-bells, nor lift her arms, and the master
   had to stand behind her and do it all. She yielded up her members as
   instruments to him, and his strength was made perfect in her weakness.
   He knew how to go through those exercises, for he himself had planned
   them, and therefore when he did it, it was done right. She did nothing
   but yield herself up utterly into his hands, and he did it all. The
   yielding was her part, the responsibility was all his. It was not her
   skill that was needed to make harmonious movements, but only his. The
   question was not of her capacity, but of his. Her utter weakness was
   her greatest strength. And if this is a picture of our Christian life,
   it is no wonder that Paul could say, "Most gladly therefore will I
   rather glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon
   me." Who would not glory in being so utterly weak and helpless, that
   the Lord Jesus Christ should find no hindrance to the perfect working
   of His mighty power through us and in us?

   Then, too, if the work is His, the responsibility is His, and we have
   no room left for worrying about it. Everything in reference to it is
   known to Him, and He can manage it all. Why not leave it all with Him
   then, and consent to be treated like a child and guided where to go. It
   is a fact that the most effectual workers I know are those who do not
   feel the least care or anxiety about their work, but who commit it all
   to their dear Master, and, asking Him to guide them moment by moment in
   reference to it, trust Him implicitly for each moment's needed supplies
   of wisdom and of strength. To see such, you would almost think perhaps
   that they were too free from care, where such mighty interests are at
   stake. But when you have learned God's secret of trusting, and see the
   beauty and the power of that life which is yielded up to His working,
   you will cease to condemn, and will begin to wonder how any of God's
   workers can dare to carry burdens, or assume responsibilities which He
   alone is able to bear.

   There are one or two other bonds of service from which this life of
   trust delivers us. We find out that we are not responsible for all the
   work in the world. The commands cease to be general, and become
   personal and individual. The Master does not map out a general course
   of action for us and leave us to get along through it by our own wisdom
   and skill as best we may, but He leads us step by step, giving us each
   hour the special guidance needed for that hour. His blessed Spirit
   dwelling in us, brings to our remembrance at the time the necessary
   command; so that we do not need to take any thought ahead but simply to
   take each step as it is made known to us, following our Lord
   whithersoever He leads us. "The steps of a good man are ordered of the
   Lord" not his way only, but each separate step in that way. Many
   Christians make the mistake of expecting to receive God's commands all
   in a lump, as it were. They think because He tells them to give a tract
   to one person in a railway train, for instance, that He means them
   always to give tracts to everybody, and they burden themselves with an
   impossible command.

   There was a young Christian once, who, because the Lord had sent her to
   speak a message to one soul whom she met in a walk, took it as a
   general command for always, and thought she must speak to every one she
   met about their souls. This was, of course, impossible, and as a
   consequence she was soon in hopeless bondage about it. She became
   absolutely afraid to go outside of her own door, and lived in perpetual
   condemnation. At last she disclosed her distress to a friend who was
   instructed in the ways of God with His servants, and this friend told
   her she was making a great mistake; that the Lord had His own especial
   work for each especial workman, and that the servants in a
   well-regulated household might as well each one take it upon himself to
   try and do the work of all the rest, as for the Lord's servants to
   think they were each one under obligation to do everything. He told her
   just to put herself under the Lord's personal guidance as to her work,
   and trust Him to point out to her each particular person to whom He
   would have her speak, assuring her that He never puts forth His own
   sheep without going before them, and making a way for them Himself. She
   followed this advice, and laid the burden of her work on the Lord, and
   the result was a happy pathway of daily guidance, in which she was led
   into much blessed work for her Master, but was able to do it all
   without a care or a burden, because He led her out and prepared the way
   before her.

   Putting ourselves into God's hands in this way, seems to me just like
   making the junction between the machinery and the steam engine. The
   power is not in the machinery, but in the steam; disconnected from the
   engine, the machinery is perfectly useless; but let the connection be
   made, and the machinery goes easily and without effort, because of the
   mighty power there is behind it. Thus the Christian life becomes an
   easy, natural life when it is the development of the divine working
   within. Most Christians live on a strain, because their wills are not
   fully in harmony with the will of God, the connection is not perfectly
   made at every point, and it requires an effort to move the machinery.
   But when once the connection is fully made, and the law of the Spirit
   of life in Christ Jesus can work in us with all its mighty power, we
   are then indeed made free from the law of sin and death, and shall know
   the glorious liberty of the children of God. We shall lead frictionless
   lives.

   Another form of bondage as to service, from which the life of faith
   delivers the soul, is in reference to the after-reflections which
   always follow any Christian work. These self-reflections are of two
   sorts. Either the soul congratulates itself upon its success, and is
   lifted up; or it is distressed over its failure, and is utterly cast
   down. One of these is sure to come, and of the two I think the first is
   the more to be dreaded, although the last causes at the time the
   greater suffering. But in the life of trust, neither will trouble us;
   for, having committed ourselves and our work to the Lord, we will be
   satisfied to leave it to Him, and will not think about ourselves in the
   matter at all.

   Years ago I came across this sentence in an old book: "Never indulge,
   at the close of an action, in any self-reflective acts of any kind,
   whether of self-congratulation or of self-despair. Forget the things
   that are behind, the moment they are past, leaving them with God." It
   has been of unspeakable value to me. When the temptation comes, as it
   always does, to indulge in these reflections, either of one sort or the
   other, I turn from them at once, and positively refuse to think about
   my work at all, leaving it with the Lord to overrule the mistakes, and
   to bless it as He chooses.

   To sum it all up then, what is needed for happy and effectual service
   is simply to put your work into the Lord's hands, and leave it there.
   Do not take it to Him in prayer, saying, "Lord, guide me; Lord, give me
   wisdom; Lord, arrange for me," and then arise from your knees, and take
   the burden all back, and try to guide and arrange for yourself. Leave
   it with the Lord, and remember that what you trust to Him, you must not
   worry over nor feel anxious about. Trust and worry cannot go together.
   If your work is a burden, it is because you are not trusting it to Him.
   But if you do trust it to Him, you will surely find that the yoke He
   puts upon you is easy, and the burden He gives you to carry is light,
   and even in the midst of a life of ceaseless activity you shall find
   rest to your soul.

   But some may say that this teaching would make us into mere puppets. I
   answer, No, it would simply make us into servants. It is required of a
   servant, not that he shall plan, or arrange, or decide, or supply the
   necessary material, but simply and only that he shall obey. It is for
   the Master to do all the rest. The servant is not responsible, either,
   for results. The Master alone knows what results he wished to have
   produced, and therefore he alone can judge of them. Intelligent service
   will, of course, include some degree of intelligent sympathy with the
   thoughts and plans of the Master, but after all there cannot be a full
   comprehension, and the responsibility cannot be transferred from the
   Master's shoulders to the servant's. And in our case, where our outlook
   is so limited and our ignorance so great, we can do very little more
   than be in harmony with the will of our Divine Master, without
   expecting to comprehend it very fully, and we must leave all the
   results with Him. What looks to us like failure on the seen side, is
   often, on the unseen side, the most glorious success; and if we allow
   ourselves to lament and worry, we shall often be doing the foolish and
   useless thing of weeping where we ought to be singing and rejoicing.

   Far better is it to refuse utterly to indulge in any self-reflective
   acts at all; to refuse, in fact, to think about self in any way,
   whether for good or evil. We are not our own property, nor our own
   business. We belong to God, and are His instruments and His business;
   and since He always attends to His own business, He will of course
   attend to us.

   I heard once of a slave who was on board a vessel in a violent storm,
   and who was whistling contentedly while every one else was in an agony
   of terror. At last someone asked him if he was not afraid he would be
   drowned. He replied with a broad grin, "Well, missus, s'pose I is. I
   don't b'long to myself, and it will only be massa's loss any how."

   Something of this spirit would deliver us from many of our perplexities
   and sufferings in service. And with a band of servants thus abandoned
   to our Master's use and to His care, what might He not accomplish?
   Truly one such would "chase a thousand, and two would put ten thousand
   to flight"; and nothing would be impossible to them. For it is nothing
   with the Lord "to help, whether with many or with them that have no
   power."

   May God raise up such an army speedily!

   And may you, my dear reader enroll your name in this army today and,
   yielding yourself unto God as one who is alive from the dead, may every
   one of your members be also yielded unto Him as instruments of
   righteousness, to be used by Him as He pleases.
     __________________________________________________________________

    Chapter 11

  DIFFICULTIES CONCERNING GUIDANCE

   You have now begun, dear reader, the life of faith. You have given
   yourself to the Lord to be His wholly and altogether, and He has taken
   you and has begun to mould and fashion you into a vessel unto His
   honor. Your one most earnest desire is to be very pliable in His hands,
   and to follow Him whithersoever He may lead you, and you are trusting
   Him to work in you to will and to do of His good pleasure. But you find
   a great difficulty here. You have not learned yet to know the voice of
   the Good Shepherd, and are therefore in great doubt and perplexity as
   to what really is His will concerning you.

   Perhaps there are certain paths into which God seems to be calling you,
   of which your friends utterly disapprove. And these friends, it may be,
   are older than yourself in the Christian life, and seem to you also to
   be much further advanced. You can scarcely bear to differ from them or
   distress them; and you feel also very diffident of yielding to any
   seeming impressions of duty of which they do not approve. And yet you
   cannot get rid of these impressions, and you are plunged into great
   doubt and uneasiness.

   There is a way out of all these difficulties, to the fully surrendered
   soul. I would repeat, fully surrendered, because if there is any
   reserve of will upon any point, it becomes almost impossible to find
   out the mind of God in reference to that point; and therefore the first
   thing is to be sure that you really do purpose to obey the Lord in
   every respect. If however this is the case, and your soul only needs to
   know the will of God in order to consent to it, then you surely cannot
   doubt His willingness to make His will known, and to guide you in the
   right paths. There are many very clear promises in reference to this.
   Take, for instance, John 10:3, 4: "He calleth His own sheep by name,
   and leadeth them out. And when He putteth forth His own sheep He goeth
   before them, and the sheep follow Him, for they know His voice." Or,
   John 14:26: "But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the
   Father will send in my name, He shall teach you all things, and bring
   all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you." Or,
   James 1:5, 6: "If any of you lack wisdom, let Him ask of God, that
   giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given
   him." With such passages as these, and many more like them, we must
   believe that Divine guidance is promised to us, and our faith must
   confidently look for and expect it. This is essential; for in James
   1:6, 7, we are told, "Let him ask in faith nothing wavering. For he
   that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and
   tossed. For let not such a man think that he shall receive anything of
   the Lord."

   Settle this point then first of all, that Divine guidance has been
   promised, and that you are sure to have it, if you ask for it; and let
   no suggestion of doubt turn you from this.

   Next, you must remember that our God has all knowledge and all wisdom,
   and that therefore it is very possible He may guide you into paths
   wherein He knows great blessings are awaiting you, but which to the
   short-sighted human eyes around you seem sure to result in confusion
   and loss. You must recognize the fact that God's thoughts are not as
   man's thoughts, nor His ways as man's ways; and that He who knows the
   end of things from the beginning, alone can judge of what the results
   of any course of action may be. You must therefore realize that His
   very love for you may perhaps lead you to run counter to the loving
   wishes of even your dearest friends. You must learn from Luke 14:26-33,
   and similar passages, that in order, not to be saved only, but to be a
   disciple or follower of your Lord, you may perhaps be called upon to
   forsake all that you have, and to turn your backs on even father or
   mother, or brother or sister, or husband or wife, or it may be your own
   life also. Unless the possibility of this is clearly recognized, the
   soul would be very likely to get into difficulty, because it often
   happens that the child of God who enters upon this life of obedience is
   sooner or later led into paths which meet with the disapproval of those
   he best loves; and unless he is prepared for this, and can trust the
   Lord through it all, he will scarcely know what to do.

   All this, it will of course be understood, is perfectly in harmony with
   those duties of honor and love which we owe to one another in the
   various relations of life. The nearer we are to Christ, the more shall
   we be enabled to exemplify the meekness and gentleness of our Lord, and
   the more tender will be our consideration for those who are our natural
   guardians and counsellors. The Master's guidance will always manifest
   itself by the Master's Spirit, and where, in obedience to Him, we are
   led to act contrary to the advice or wishes of our friends, we shall
   prove that this is our motive, by the love and patience which will mark
   our conduct.

   But this point having been settled, we come now to the question as to
   how God's guidance is to come to us, and how we shall be able to know
   His voice.

   There are four especial ways in which God speaks: by the voice of
   Scripture, the voice of the inward impressions of the Holy Spirit, the
   voice of our own higher judgment, and the voice of providential
   circumstances.

   Where these four harmonize, it is safe to say that God speaks. For I
   lay it down as a foundation principle, which no one can gainsay, that
   of course His voice will always be in harmony with itself, no matter in
   how many different ways He may speak. The voices may be many, the
   message can be but one. If God tells me in one voice to do or to leave
   undone anything, He cannot possibly tell me the opposite in another
   voice. If there is a contradiction in the voices, the speaker cannot be
   the same. Therefore, my rule for distinguishing the voice of God would
   be to bring it to the test of this harmony.

   If I have an impression, therefore, I must see if it is in accordance
   with Scripture, and whether it commends itself to my own higher
   judgment, and also whether, as we Quakers say, "way opens" for its
   carrying out. If either one of these tests fail, it is not safe to
   proceed; but I must wait in quiet trust until the Lord shows me the
   point of harmony, which He surely will, sooner or later, if it is His
   voice that has spoken.

   For we must not overlook the fact that there are other voices that
   speak to the soul. There is the loud and clamoring voice of self, that
   is always seeking to be heard. And there are the voices, too, of evil
   and deceiving spirits, who lie in wait to entrap every traveller
   entering these higher regions of the spiritual life. In the same
   epistle which tells us that we are seated in "heavenly places in
   Christ" (Eph. 2:6), we are also told that we shall have to fight there
   with spiritual enemies (Eph. 6:12). These spiritual enemies, whoever or
   whatever they may be, must necessarily communicate with us by means of
   our spiritual faculties, and their voices, therefore, will be, as the
   voice of God is, an inward impression made upon our spirits.

   Therefore, just as the Holy Spirit may tell us, by impressions, what is
   the will of God concerning us, so also will these spiritual enemies
   tell us, by impressions, what is their will concerning us, though not
   of course giving it their name. It is very plain, therefore, that we
   must have some test or standard by which to try these inward
   impressions, in order that we may know whose voice it is that is
   speaking. And that test will always be the harmony to which I have
   referred. Sometimes, under a mistaken idea of exalting the Divine
   Spirit, earnest and honest Christians have ignored and even violated
   the teachings of Scripture, have disregarded the plain pointings of
   Providence, and have outraged their own higher judgment. God, who sees
   the sincerity of their hearts, can and does pity and forgive, but the
   consequences as to this life are often very sad.

   Our first test, therefore, of the Divine authority of any voice which
   may seem to speak to us, must be its harmony in moral character with
   the mind and will of God, as revealed to us in the Gospel of Christ.
   Whatever is contrary to this, cannot be Divine, because God cannot
   contradict Himself.

   Until we have found and obeyed God's will in reference to any subject,
   as it is revealed in the Bible, we cannot expect a separate direct
   personal revelation. A great many fatal mistakes are made in this
   matter of guidance, by the overlooking of this simple rule. Where our
   Father has written out for us plain directions about anything, He will
   not, of course, make an especial revelation to us concerning it. No
   man, for instance, needs or could expect any direct revelation to tell
   him not to steal, because God has already in the Scriptures plainly
   declared His will about it. This seems such an obvious thing that I
   would not speak of it, but that I have frequently met with Christians
   who have altogether overlooked it, and have gone off into fanaticism as
   the result. For the Scriptures are far more explicit even about details
   than most people think. And there are not many important affairs in
   life for which a clear direction may not be found in God's book. Take
   the matter of dress, and we have 1 Pet. 3:3, 4, and 1 Tim. 2:9, 10.
   Take the matter of conversation, and we have Eph. 4:29, and 5:4. Take
   the matter of avenging injuries and standing up for your rights, and we
   have Rom. 12:19, 20, 21, and Matt. 5:38-48, and 1 Pet. 2:19-21. Take
   the matter of forgiving one another, and we have Eph. 4:32 and Mark
   11:25, 26. Take the matter of conformity to the world, and we have Rom.
   12:2, and 1 John 2:15-17, and James 4:4. Take the matter of anxieties
   of all kind, and we have Matt. 6:25-34, and Phil. 4:6, 7.

   I only give these as examples to show how very full and practical the
   Bible guidance is. If, therefore, you find yourself in perplexity,
   first of all search and see whether the Bible speaks on the point in
   question, asking God to make plain to you by the power of His Spirit,
   through the Scripture, what is His mind. And whatever shall seem to you
   to be plainly taught there, that you must obey.

   When we read and meditate upon this record of God's mind and will, with
   our understandings thus illuminated by the inspiring Spirit, our
   obedience will be as truly an obedience to a present, living word, as
   though it were afresh spoken to us today by our Lord from Heaven. The
   Bible is not only an ancient message from God sent to us many ages ago,
   but it is a present message sent to us now each time we read it. "The
   words that I speak unto you, they are spirit, and they are life," and
   obedience to these words now is a living obedience to a present and
   personal command.

   But it is essential in this connection to remember that the Bible is a
   book of principles, and not a book of disjointed aphorisms. Isolated
   texts may often be made to sanction things, to which the principles of
   Scripture are totally opposed. I heard not long ago of a Christian
   woman in a Western meeting, who, having had the text, "For we walk by
   faith, and not by sight," brought very vividly before her mind, felt a
   strong impression that it was a command to be literally obeyed in the
   outward; and, blindfolding her eyes, insisted on walking up and down
   the aisle of the meeting-house, as an illustration of the walk of
   faith. She very soon stumbled and fell against the stove, burning
   herself seriously, and then wondered at the mysterious dispensation.
   The principles of Scripture, and her own sanctified common-sense, if
   applied to this case, would have saved her from the delusion.

   The second test, therefore, to which our impressions must be brought,
   is that of our own higher judgment, or common-sense.

   It is as true now as in the days when Solomon wrote, that a "man of
   understanding shall attain unto wise counsels"; and his exhortation
   still continues binding upon us: "Wisdom is the principal thing,
   therefore get wisdom; and with all thy getting, get understanding."

   As far as I can see, the Scriptures everywhere make it an essential
   thing for the children of God to use all the faculties which have been
   given them, in their journey through this world. They are to use their
   outward faculties for their outward walk, and their inward faculties
   for their inward walk. And they might as well expect to be "kept" from
   dashing their feet against a stone in the outward, if they walk
   blindfold, as to be "kept" from spiritual stumbling, if they put aside
   their judgment and common-sense in their interior life.

   I asked a Christian of "sound mind" lately how she distinguished
   between the voice of false spirits and the guidance of the Holy Spirit,
   and she replied promptly, "I rap them over the head, and see if they
   have any common-sense."

   Some, however, may say here, "But I thought we were not to depend on
   our human understanding in Divine things." I answer to this, that we
   are not to depend on our unenlightened human understanding, but upon
   our human judgment and common-sense, enlightened by the Spirit of God.
   That is, God will speak to us through the faculties He has Himself
   given us, and not independently of them. That is, just as we are to use
   our eyes when we walk, no matter how full of faith we may be, so also
   we are to use our mental faculties in our inward life.

   The third and last test to which our impressions must be brought is
   that of providential circumstances. If a "leading" is of God, the way
   will always open for it. Our Lord assures us of this when He says in
   John 10:4, "And when He putteth forth His own sheep he goeth before
   them, and the sheep follow Him, for they know his voice." Notice here
   the expression "goeth before," and "follow." He goes before to open a
   way, and we are to follow in the way thus opened. It is never a sign of
   a Divine leading when the Christian insists on opening his own way, and
   riding rough-shod over all opposing things. If the Lord "goes before"
   us, He will open all doors for us, and we shall not need ourselves to
   hammer them down.

   The fourth point I would make is this: that, just as our impressions
   must be tested, as I have shown, by the other three voices, so must
   these other voices be tested by our inward impressions; and if we feel
   a "stop in our minds" about anything, we must wait until that is
   removed before acting. A Christian who had advanced with unusual
   rapidity in the Divine life, gave me as her secret this simple receipt:
   "I always mind the checks." We must not ignore the voice of our inward
   impressions, nor ride rough-shod over them, any more than we must the
   other three voices of which I have spoken.

   These four voices, then, will always be found to agree in any truly
   Divine leading, i.e., the voice of our impressions, the voice of
   Scripture, the voice of our own sanctified judgment, and the voice of
   providential circumstances; and where these four do not all agree at
   first, we must wait until they do.

   A divine sense of "oughtness," derived from the harmony of all God's
   various voices, is the only safe foundation for any action.

   And now I have guarded the points of danger, do permit me to let myself
   out for a little to the blessedness and joy of this direct
   communication of God's will to us. It seems to me to be the grandest of
   privileges. In the first place, that God should love me enough to care
   about the details of my life is perfectly wonderful. And then that He
   should be willing to tell me all about it, and to let me know just now
   to live and walk so as to perfectly please Him, seems almost too good
   to be true. We never care about the little details of people's lives
   unless we love them. It is a matter of indifference to us with the
   majority of people we meet, as to what they do or how they spend their
   time; but as soon as we begin to love any one, we begin at once to
   care. That God cares, therefore, is just a precious proof of His love;
   and it is most blessed to have Him speak to us about everything in our
   lives, about our duties, about our pleasures, about our friendships,
   about our occupations, about all that we do, or think, or say. You must
   know this in your own experience, dear reader, if you would come into
   the full joy and privilege of this life hid with Christ in God, for it
   is one of it most precious gifts!

   God's promise is, that He will work in us to will as well as to do of
   His good pleasure. This, of course, means that He will take possession
   of our will, and work it for us, and that His suggestions will come to
   us, not so much commands from the outside, as desires springing up
   within. They will originate in our will; we shall feel as though we
   wanted to do so and so, not as though we must. And this makes it a
   service of perfect liberty; for it is always easy to do what we desire
   to do, let the accompanying circumstances be as difficult as they may.
   Every mother knows that she could secure perfect and easy obedience in
   her child, if she could only get into that child's will and work it for
   him, making him want himself to do the things she willed he should. And
   this is what our Father does for His children in the new dispensation;
   He writes His laws on our hearts and on our minds, and we love them,
   and are drawn to our obedience by our affections and judgment, not
   driven by our fears.

   The way in which the Holy Spirit, therefore, usually works in His
   direct guidance is to impress upon the mind a wish or desire to do or
   leave undone certain things.

   The soul when engaged, perhaps, in prayer, feels a sudden suggestion
   made to its inmost consciousness in reference to a certain point of
   duty. "I would like to do this or the other," it thinks, "I wish I
   could." Or perhaps the suggestion may come as question, "I wonder
   whether I had not better do so and so?" Or it may be only at first in
   the way of a conviction that such is the right and best thing to be
   done.

   At once the matter should be committed to the Lord, with an instant
   consent of the will to obey Him; and if the suggestion is in accordance
   with the Scriptures, and a sanctified judgment, and with Providential
   circumstances, an immediate obedience is the safest and easiest course.
   At the moment when the Spirit speaks, it is always easy to obey; if the
   soul hesitates and begins to reason, it becomes more and more difficult
   continually. As a general rule, the first convictions are the right
   ones in a fully surrendered heart; for God is faithful in His dealings
   with us, and will cause His voice to be heard before any other voices.
   Such convictions, therefore, should never be met by reasoning. Prayer
   and trust are the only safe attitudes of the soul; and even these
   should be but momentary, as it were, lest the time for action should
   pass and the blessing be missed.

   If, however, the suggestion does not seem quite clear enough to act
   upon, and doubt and perplexity ensue, especially if it is something
   about which one's friends hold a different opinion, then we shall need
   to wait for further light. The Scripture rule is, "Whatsoever is not of
   faith is sin"; which means plainly that we must never act in doubt. A
   clear conviction of right is the only safe guide. But we must wait in
   faith, and in an attitude of entire surrender, saying, "Yes,"
   continually to the will of our Lord, whatever it may be. I believe the
   lack of a will thus surrendered lies at the root of many of our
   difficulties; and next to this lies the want of faith in any real
   Divine guidance. God's children are amazingly skeptical here. They read
   the promises and they feel the need, but somehow they cannot seem to
   believe the guidance will be given to them; as if God should want us to
   obey His voice, but did not know how to make us hear and understand
   Him. It is, therefore, very possible for God to speak, but for the soul
   not to hear, because it does not believe He is speaking. No earthly
   parent or master could possibly guide his children or servants, if they
   should refuse to believe he was speaking, and should not accept his
   voice as being really the expression of his will.


   God, who at sundry times and in manners many,

   Spake to the fathers and is speaking still,

   Eager to see if ever or if any

   Souls will obey and hearken to His will.

   Every moment of our lives our Father is seeking to reveal Himself to
   us. "I that speak unto thee am He. I that speak in thy heart, I that
   speak in thy outward circumstances, I that speak in thy losses, I that
   speak in thy gains, I that speak in thy sorrows or in thy joys, I that
   speak everywhere and in everything, am He."

   We must, therefore, have perfect confidence that the Lord's voice is
   speaking to us to teach and lead us, and that He will give us the
   wisdom needed for our right guidance; and when we have asked for light,
   we must accept our strongest conviction of "oughtness" as being the
   guidance we have sought.

   A few rules will help us here.

   I. We must believe that God will guide us.

   II. We must surrender our own will to His guidance.

   III. We must hearken for the Divine voice.

   IV. We must wait for the divine harmony.

   V. When we are sure of the guidance, we must obey without question.


   God only is the creature's home;

   Though rough and strait the rod,

   Yet nothing less can satisfy

   The love that longs, for God.


   How little of that road, my soul!

   How little hast thou gone!

   Take heart, and let the thought of God

   Allure thee further on.


   The perfect way is hard to flesh;

   It is not hard to love;

   If thou wert sick for want of God,

   How swiftly wouldst thou move.


   Dole not thy duties out to God,

   But let thy hand be free;

   Look long at Jesus, His sweet love,

   How was it dealt to thee?


   And only this perfection needs

   A heart kept calm all day,

   To catch the words the Spirit there,

   From hour to hour may say.


   Then keep thy conscience sensitive,

   No inward token miss:

   And go where grace entices thee--

   Perfection lies in this.


   Be docile to thine unseen Guide,

   Love Him as He loves thee;

   Time and obedience are enough,

   And thou a saint shalt be.
     __________________________________________________________________

    Chapter 12

  CONCERNING TEMPTATION

   Certain very great mistakes are made concerning this matter of
   temptation, in the practical working out of this life of faith.

   First of all, people seem to expect that, after the soul has entered
   into its rest in God, temptations will cease; and to think that the
   promised deliverance is not only to be from yielding to temptation, but
   even also from being tempted. Consequently, when they find the
   Canaanite still in the land, and see the cities great and walled up to
   Heaven, they are utterly discouraged, and think they must have gone
   wrong in some way, and that this cannot be the true land after all.

   Then, next they make the mistake of looking upon temptation as sin, and
   of blaming themselves for what in reality is the fault of the enemy
   only. This brings them into condemnation and discouragement; and
   discouragement, if continued in, always ends at last in actual sin. The
   enemy makes an easy prey of a discouraged soul; so that we fall often
   from the very fear of having fallen.

   To meet the first of these difficulties it is only necessary to refer
   to the Scripture declarations, that the Christian life is to be
   throughout a warfare; and that, especially when seated in heavenly
   places in Christ Jesus, we are to wrestle against spiritual enemies
   there, whose power and skill to tempt us must doubtless be far superior
   to any we have ever heretofore encountered. As a fact, temptations
   generally increase in strength tenfold after we have entered into the
   interior life, rather than decrease; and no amount or sort of them must
   ever for a moment lead us to suppose we have not really found the true
   abiding place. Strong temptations are generally a sign of great grace,
   rather than of little grace. When the children of Israel had first left
   Egypt, the Lord did not lead them through the country of the
   Philistines, although that was the nearest way; for God said, "lest
   peradventure the people repent when they see war, and they return to
   Egypt." But afterwards, when they learned better how to trust Him, He
   permitted their enemies to attack them. Then also in their wilderness
   journey they met with but few enemies and fought but few battles,
   compared to those in the land, where they found seven great nations and
   thirty-one kings to be conquered, besides walled cities to be taken,
   and giants to be overcome.

   They could not have fought with the Canaanites, or the Hittites, and
   the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites,
   until they had gone into the land where these enemies were. And the
   very power of your temptations, dear Christian, therefore, may perhaps
   be one of the strongest proofs that you really are in the land you have
   been seeking to enter, because they are temptations peculiar to that
   land. You must never allow your temptations to cause you to question
   the fact of your having entered the promised "heavenly places."

   The second mistake is not quite so easy to deal with. It seems hardly
   worth while to say that temptation is not sin, and yet most of the
   distress about it arises from not understanding this fact. The very
   suggestion of wrong seems to bring pollution with it, and the evil
   agency not being recognized, the poor tempted soul begins to feel as if
   it must be very bad indeed, and very far off from God to have had such
   thoughts and suggestions. It is as though a burglar should break into a
   man's house to steal, and, when the master of the house began to resist
   him and to drive him out, should turn round and accuse the owner of
   being himself the thief. It is the enemy's grand ruse for entrapping
   us. He comes and whispers suggestions of evil to us, doubts,
   blasphemies, jealousies, envyings, and pride; and then turns round and
   says, "Oh, how wicked you must be to think of such things! It is very
   plain that you are not trusting the Lord; for if you were, it would
   have been impossible for these things to have entered your heart." This
   reasoning sounds so very plausible that the soul often accepts it as
   true, and at once comes under condemnation, and is filled with
   discouragement; then it is easy for it to be led on into actual sin.
   One of the most fatal things in the life of faith is discouragement.
   One of the most helpful is cheerfulness. A very wise man once said that
   in overcoming temptations, cheerfulness was the first thing,
   cheerfulness the second, and cheerfulness the third. We must expect to
   conquer. That is why the Lord said so often to Joshua, "Be strong and
   of a good courage"; "Be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed"; "Only be
   thou strong and very courageous." And it is also the reason He says to
   us, "Let not your heart he troubled neither let it be afraid." The
   power of temptation is in the fainting of our own hearts. The enemy
   knows this well, and always begins his assaults by discouraging us, if
   it can in any way be accomplished.

   Sometimes this discouragement arises from what we think is a righteous
   grief and disgust at ourselves that such things could be any temptation
   to us; but which is really a mortification arising from the fact that
   we have been indulging in a secret self-congratulation that our tastes
   were too pure, or our separation from the world was too complete for
   such things to tempt us. We have expected something from ourselves, and
   have been sorely disappointed not to find that something there, and are
   discouraged in consequence. This mortification and discouragement are
   really a far worse condition than the temptation itself, though they
   present an appearance of true humility, for they are nothing but the
   results of wounded self-love. True humility can bear to see its own
   utter weakness and foolishness revealed, because it never expected
   anything from itself, and knows that its only hope and expectation must
   be in God. Therefore, instead of discouraging the soul from trusting,
   it drives it to a deeper and more utter trust. But the counterfeit
   humility which springs from self, plunges the soul into the depths of a
   faithless discouragement, and drives it into the very sin at which it
   is so distressed.

   I remember once hearing an allegory that illustrated this to me
   wonderfully. Satan called together a council of his servants to consult
   how they might make a good man sin. One evil spirit started up and
   said, "I will make him sin." "How will you do it?" asked Satan. "I will
   set before him the pleasures of sin," was the reply; "I will tell him
   of its delights and the rich rewards it brings." "Ah," said Satan,
   "that will not do; he has tried, it, and knows better than that." Then
   another spirit started up and said, "I will make him sin." "What will
   you do?" asked Satan. "I will tell him of the pains and sorrows of
   virtue. I will show him that virtue has no delights, and brings no
   rewards." "Ah, no!" exclaimed Satan, "that will not do at all; for he
   has tried it, and knows that `wisdom's ways are ways of pleasantness
   and all her paths are peace.'" "Well," said another imp, starting up,
   "I will undertake to make him sin." "And what will you do?" asked
   Satan, again. "I will discourage his soul," was the short reply. "Ah,
   that will do," cried Satan,--"that will do! We shall conquer him now."
   And they did.

   An old writer says, "All discouragement is from the devil"; and I wish
   every Christian would just take this as a pocket-piece, and never
   forget it. We must fly from discouragement as we would from sin.

   But this is impossible if we fail to recognize the true agency in
   temptation. For if the temptations are our own fault, we cannot help
   being discouraged. But they are not. The Bible says, "Blessed is the
   man that endureth temptation"; and we are exhorted to "count it all joy
   when we fall into divers temptations." Temptation, therefore, cannot be
   sin; and the truth is, it is no more a sin to hear these whispers and
   suggestions of evil in our souls, than it is for us to hear the
   swearing or wicked talk of bad men as we pass along the street. The sin
   only comes in either case by our stopping and joining in with them. If,
   when the wicked suggestions come, we turn from them at once, as we
   would from wicked talk, and pay no more attention to them, we do not
   sin. But if we carry them on in our minds, and roll them under our
   tongues, and dwell on them with a half-consent of our will to them as
   true, then we sin. We may be enticed by evil a thousand times a day
   without sin, and we cannot help these enticings. But if the enemy can
   succeed in making us think that his enticings are our sin, he has
   accomplished half the battle, and can hardly fail to gain a complete
   victory.

   A dear lady once came to me under great darkness, simply from not
   understanding this. She had been living very happily in the life of
   faith for some time, and had been so free from temptation as almost to
   begin to think she would never be tempted any more. But suddenly a very
   peculiar form of temptation had assailed her, which had horrified her.
   She found that the moment she began to pray, dreadful thoughts of all
   kinds would rush into her mind. She had lived a very sheltered,
   innocent life, and these thoughts seemed so awful to her, that she felt
   she must be one of the most wicked of sinners to be capable of having
   them. She began by thinking she could not possibly have entered into
   the rest of faith, and ended by concluding that she had never even been
   born again. Her soul was in an agony of distress. I told her that these
   dreadful thoughts were altogether the suggestions of the enemy, who
   came to her the moment she kneeled in prayer, and poured them into her
   mind, and that she herself was not to blame for them at all; that she
   could not help them any more than she could help hearing if a wicked
   man should pour out his blasphemies in her presence. And I urged her to
   recognize and treat them as from the enemy; not to blame herself or be
   discouraged, but to turn at once to Jesus and commit them to Him. I
   showed her how great an advantage the enemy had gained by making her
   think these thoughts were originated by herself, and plunging her into
   condemnation and discouragement on account of them. And I assured her
   she would find a speedy victory if she would pay no attention to them;
   but, ignoring their presence, would simply turn her back on them and
   look to the Lord.

   She grasped the truth, and the next time these thoughts came she said
   to the enemy, "I have found you out now. It is you who are suggesting
   these dreadful thoughts to me, and I hate them, and will have nothing
   to do with them. The Lord is my Saviour; take them to Him, and settle
   them in His presence." Immediately the baffled enemy, finding himself
   discovered, fled in confusion, and her soul was perfectly delivered.

   Another thing also. The enemy knows that if a Christian recognizes a
   suggestion of evil as coming from him, he will recoil from it far more
   quickly than if it seems to be the suggestion of his own mind. If Satan
   prefaced each temptation with the words, "I am Satan, your relentless
   enemy; I have come to make you sin," I suppose we would hardly feel any
   desire at all to yield to his suggestions. He has to hide himself in
   order to make his baits attractive. And our victory will be far more
   easily gained if we are not ignorant of his devices, but recognize him
   at his very first approach.

   We also make another great mistake about temptations in thinking that
   all time spent in combating them is lost. Hours pass, and we seem to
   have made no progress, because we have been so beset with temptations.
   But it often happens that we have been serving God far more truly
   during these hours, than in our times of comparative freedom from
   temptation. Temptation is really more the devil's wrath against God,
   than against us. He cannot touch our Saviour, but he can wound our
   Saviour by conquering us, and our ruin is important to him only as it
   accomplishes this. We are, therefore, really fighting our Lord's
   battles when we are fighting temptation, and hours are often worth days
   to us under these circumstances. We read, "Blessed is the man that
   endureth temptation"; and I am sure this means enduring the continuance
   of it and its frequent recurrence. Nothing so cultivates the grace of
   patience as the endurance of temptation, and nothing so drives the soul
   to an utter dependence upon the Lord Jesus as its continuance. And
   finally, nothing brings more praise and honor and glory to our dearest
   Lord Himself, than the trial of our faith which comes through manifold
   temptations. We are told that it is more precious than gold, though it
   be tried with fire, and that we, who patiently endure the trial, shall
   receive for our reward "the crown of life which the Lord hath promised
   to them that love Him."

   We cannot wonder, therefore, any longer at the exhortation with which
   the Holy Ghost opens the Book of James: "Count it all joy when ye fall
   into divers temptations, knowing this, that the trying of your faith
   worketh patience. But let patience have her perfect work, that ye may
   be perfect and entire, wanting nothing."

   Temptation is plainly to be the blessed instrument used by God to
   complete our perfection, and thus the enemy's own weapons are turned
   against himself, and we see how it is that all things, even
   temptations, can work together for good to them that love God.

   As to the way of victory over temptations, it seems hardly necessary to
   say to those whom I am at this time especially addressing, that it is
   to be by faith. For this is, of course, the foundation upon which the
   whole interior life rests. Our one great motto is throughout, "We are
   nothing, Christ is all." And always and everywhere we have started out
   to stand, and walk, and overcome, and live by faith. We have discovered
   our own utter helplessness, and know that we cannot do anything for
   ourselves. Our only way, therefore, is to hand the temptation over to
   our Lord, and trust Him to conquer it for us. But when we put it into
   His hands we must leave it there. It must be as real a committing of
   ourselves to Him for victory, as it was at first a committing of
   ourselves to Him for salvation. He must do all for us in the one case,
   as completely as in the other. It was faith only then, and it must be
   faith only now.

   And the victories which the Lord works in conquering the temptations of
   those who thus trust Him are nothing short of miracles, as thousands
   can testify.

   But into this part of the subject I cannot go at present, as my object
   has been rather to present temptation in its true light, than to
   develop the way of victory over it. I want to deliver conscientious,
   faithful souls from the bondage into which they are sure to be brought,
   if they fail to understand the true nature and use of temptation, and
   confound it with sin. I want that they should not be ignorant of the
   fact that temptations are, after all, an invaluable part of our soul's
   development; and that, whatever may be their original source, they are
   used by God to work out in us many blessed graces of character which
   would otherwise be lacking. Wherever temptation is, there is God also,
   superintending and controlling its power. "Where wert thou, Lord I
   while I was being tempted?" cried the saint of the desert. "Close
   beside thee, my son, all the while," was the tender reply.

   Temptations try us; and we are worth nothing if we are not tried. They
   develop our spiritual strength and courage and knowledge; and our
   development is the one thing God cries for. How shallow would all our
   spirituality be if it were not for temptations. "Blessed is the man
   that endureth temptation: for when he is tried he shall receive the
   crown of life, which the Lord hath promised to them that love Him."
   This "crown of life" will be worth all that it has cost of trial and
   endurance to obtain it; and without these it could not be attained.

   An invalid lady procured once the cocoon of a very beautiful butterfly
   with unusually magnificent wings hoping to have the pleasure of seeing
   it emerge from its cocoon in her sick-chamber. She watched it eagerly
   as spring drew on, and finally was delighted to see the butterfly
   beginning to emerge. But it seemed to have great difficulty. It pushed,
   and strained, and struggled, and seemed to make so little headway, that
   she concluded it must need some help, and with a pair of delicate
   scissors she finally clipped the tight cord that seemed to bind in the
   opening of the cocoon. Immediately the cocoon opened wide, and the
   butterfly escaped without any further struggle. She congratulated
   herself on the success of her experiment, but found in a moment that
   something was the matter with the butterfly. It was all out of the
   cocoon it is true, but its great wings were lifeless and colorless, and
   dragged after it as a useless burden. For a few days it lived a
   miserable sickly life, and then died, without having once lifted its
   powerless wings. The lady was sorely disappointed and could not
   understand it. But when she related the circumstance to a naturalist,
   he told her that it had all been her own fault. That it required just
   that pushing and struggling to send the life fluid into the veins of
   the wings, and that her mistaken kindness in shortening the struggle,
   had left the wings lifeless and colorless.

   Just so do our spiritual wings need the struggle and effort of our
   conflict with temptation and trial; and to grant us an escape from it
   would be to weaken the power of our soul to "mount up with wings as
   eagles," and would deprive us of the "crown of life" which is promised
   to those who endure.
     __________________________________________________________________

    Chapter 13

  FAILURES

   The very title of this chapter may perhaps startle some. "Failures,"
   they will say; "we thought there were no failures in this life of
   faith!"

   To this I would answer that there ought not to be, and need not be;
   but, as a fact, there sometimes are. And we have got to deal with
   facts, and not with theories. No teacher of this interior life ever
   says that it becomes impossible to sin; they only insist that sin
   ceases to be a necessity, and that a possibility of uniform victory is
   opened before us. And there are very few who do not confess that, as to
   their own actual experience, they have at times been overcome by
   momentary temptation.

   Of course, in speaking of sin here, I mean conscious, known sin. I do
   not touch on the subject of sins of ignorance, or what is called the
   inevitable sin of our nature, which are all covered by the atonement,
   and do not disturb our fellowship with God. I have no desire nor
   ability to treat of the doctrines concerning sin; these I will leave
   with the theologians to discuss and settle, while I speak only of the
   believer's experience in the matter. And I wish it to be fully
   understood that in all I shall say, I have reference simply to that
   which comes within the range of our consciousness.

   Misunderstanding, then, on this point of known or conscious sin, opens
   the way for great dangers in the higher Christian life. When a
   believer, who has, as he trusts, entered upon the highway of holiness,
   finds himself surprised into sin, he is tempted either to be utterly
   discouraged, and to give everything up as lost; or else, in order to
   preserve the doctrine untouched, he feels it necessary to cover his sin
   up, calling it infirmity, and refusing to be honest and above-board
   about it. Either of these courses is equally fatal to any real growth
   and progress in the life of holiness. The only way is to face the sad
   fact at once, call the thing by its right name, and discover, if
   possible, the reason and the remedy. This life of union with God
   requires the utmost honesty with Him and with ourselves. The communion
   which the sin itself would only momentarily disturb, is sure to be lost
   by any dishonest dealing with it. A sudden failure is no reason for
   being discouraged and giving up all as lost. Neither is the integrity
   of our doctrine touched by it. We are not preaching a state, but a
   walk. The highway of holiness is not a place, but a way. Sanctification
   is not a thing to be picked up at a certain stage of our experience,
   and forever after possessed, but it is a life to be lived day by day,
   and hour by hour. We may for a moment turn aside from a path, but the
   path is not obliterated by our wandering, and can be instantly
   regained. And in this life and walk of faith, there may be momentary
   failures, which, although very sad and greatly to be deplored, need
   not, if rightly met, disturb the attitude of the soul as to entire
   consecration and perfect trust, nor interrupt, for more than the
   passing moment, its happy communion with its Lord.

   The great point is an instant return to God. Our sin is no reason for
   ceasing to trust, but only an unanswerable argument why we must trust
   more fully than ever. From whatever cause we have been betrayed into
   failure, it is very certain that there is no remedy to be found for it
   in discouragement. As well might a child who is learning to walk, lie
   down in despair when he has fallen, and refuse to take another step; as
   a believer, who is seeking to learn how to live and walk by faith, give
   up in despair because of having fallen into sin. The only way in both
   cases is to get right up and try again. When the children of Israel had
   met with that disastrous defeat, soon after their entrance into the
   land, before the little city of Ai, they were all so utterly
   discouraged that we read:

   "Wherefore the hearts of the people melted, and became as water. And
   Joshua rent his clothes, and fell to the earth upon his face before the
   ark of the Lord until the eventide, he and the elders of Israel, and
   put dust upon their heads. And Joshua said, Alas! O Lord God, wherefore
   hast Thou at all brought this people over Jordan to deliver us into the
   hands of the Amorites to destroy us? Would to God we had been content,
   and dwelt on the other side Jordan! O Lord, what shall I say, when
   Israel turneth their backs before their enemies? For the Canaanites and
   all the inhabitants of the land shall hear of it, and shall environ us
   round and cut off our name from the earth: and what wilt Thou do unto
   Thy great name?"

   What a wail of despair this was! And how exactly it is repeated by many
   a child of God in the present day, whose heart, because of a defeat,
   melts and becomes as water, and who cries out, "Would to God we had
   been content and dwelt on the other side Jordan!" and predicts for
   itself further failures and even utter discomfiture before its enemies.
   No doubt Joshua thought then, as we are apt to think now, that
   discouragement and despair were the only proper and safe condition
   after such a failure. But God thought otherwise. "And the Lord said
   unto Joshua, Get thee up; wherefore liest thou upon thy face?"

   The proper thing to do was not to abandon themselves thus to utter
   discouragement, humble as it might look, but at once to face the evil
   and get rid of it, and afresh and immediately to "sanctify themselves."
   "Up, sanctify the people," is always God's command. "Lie down and be
   discouraged," is always the enemy's temptation. Our feeling is that it
   is presumptuous, and even almost impertinent, to go at once to the
   Lord, after having sinned against Him. It seems as if we ought to
   suffer the consequences our sin first for a little while, and endure
   the accusings of our conscience. And we can hardly believe that the
   Lord can be willing at once to receive us back into loving fellowship
   with Himself.

   A little girl once expressed the feeling to me, with a child's
   outspoken candor. She had asked whether the Lord Jesus always forgave
   us for our sins as soon as we asked Him, and I had said, "Yes, of
   course He does." "Just as soon" she repeated, doubtingly. "Yes," I
   replied, "the very minute we ask, He forgives us." "Well," she said
   deliberately, "I cannot believe that. I should think He would make us
   feel sorry for two or three days first. And then I should think He
   would make us ask Him a great many times, and in a very pretty way too,
   not just in common talk. And I believe that is the way He does, and you
   need not try to make me think He forgives me right at once, no matter
   what the Bible says." She only said what most Christians think, and,
   what is worse, what most Christians act on, making their discouragement
   and their very remorse separate them infinitely further off from God
   than their sin would have done. Yet it is so totally contrary to the
   way we like our children to act towards us, that I wonder how we ever
   could have conceived such an idea of God. How a mother grieves when a
   naughty child goes off alone in despairing remorse, and doubts her
   willingness to forgive; and how, on the other hand, her whole heart
   goes out in welcoming love to the darling who runs to her at once and
   begs her forgiveness! Surely our God knew this yearning love when He
   said to us, "Return, ye backsliding children, and I will heal your
   backslidings."

   The fact is, that the same moment which brings the consciousness of
   having sinned, ought to bring also the consciousness of being forgiven.
   This is especially essential to an unwavering walk in the highway of
   holiness, for no separation from God can be tolerated here for an
   instant.

   We can only walk in this path by looking continually unto Jesus, moment
   by moment; and if our eyes are taken off of Him to look upon our own
   sin and our own weakness, we shall leave the path at once. The
   believer, therefore, who has, as he trusts, entered upon this highway,
   if he finds himself overcome by sin, must flee with it instantly to the
   Lord. He must act on 1 John 1:9: "If we confess our sins, He is
   faithful and just to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all
   unrighteousness." He must not hide his sin and seek to salve it over
   with excuses, or to push it out of his memory by the lapse of time. But
   he must do as the children of Israel did, rise up "early in the
   morning," and "run" to the place where the evil thing is hidden, and
   take it out of its hiding-place, and lay it "out before the Lord." He
   must confess his sin. And then he must stone it with stones, and burn
   it with fire, and utterly put it away from him, and raise over it a
   great heap of stones, that it may be forever hidden from his sight. And
   he must believe, then and there, that God is, according to His word,
   faithful and just to forgive him his sin, and that He does do it; and
   further, that He also cleanses him from all unrighteousness. He must
   claim an immediate forgiveness and an immediate cleansing by faith, and
   must go on trusting harder and more absolutely than ever.

   As soon as Israel's sin had been brought to light and put away, at once
   God's word came again in a message of glorious encouragement, "Fear
   not, neither be thou dismayed . . . See, I have given into thy hand the
   king of Ai, and his people, and his city, and his land." Our courage
   must rise higher than ever, and we must abandon ourselves more
   completely to the Lord, that His mighty power may the more perfectly
   work in us all the good pleasure of His will. Moreover, we must forget
   our sin as soon as it is thus confessed and forgiven. We must not dwell
   on it, and examine it, and indulge in a luxury of distress and remorse.
   We must not put it on a pedestal, and then walk around it and view it
   on every side, and so magnify it into a mountain that hides our God
   from our eyes. We must follow the example of Paul, and "forgetting
   those things which are behind, and reaching forth unto those things
   which are before," we must "press toward the mark for the prize of the
   high calling of God in Christ Jesus."

   I would like to bring up two contrastive illustrations of these things.
   One was an earnest Christian man, an active worker in the Church, who
   had been living for several months in the enjoyment of full salvation.
   He was suddenly overcome by a temptation to treat a brother unkindly.
   Not having supposed it possible that he could ever sin again, he was at
   once plunged into the deepest discouragement, and concluded he had been
   altogether mistaken, and had never entered into the life of full trust
   at all. Day by day his discouragement increased, until it became
   despair, and he concluded he had never even been born again, and gave
   himself up for lost. He spent three years of utter misery, going
   further and further away from God, and being gradually drawn off into
   one sin after another, until his life was a curse to himself and to all
   around him. His health failed under the terrible burden, and fears were
   entertained for his reason.

   At the end of three years he met a Christian lady, who understood the
   truth about sin that I have been trying to explain. In a few moments'
   conversation she found out his trouble, and at once said, "You sinned
   in that act, there is no doubt about it, and I do not want you to try
   and excuse it. But have you never confessed it to the Lord and asked
   Him to forgive you?" "Confessed it!" he exclaimed, "why it seems to me
   I have done nothing but confess it, and entreat God to forgive me night
   and day for all these three dreadful years." "And you have never
   believed He did forgive you?" asked the lady. "No," said the poor man,
   "how could I, for I never felt as if He did?" "But suppose He had said
   He forgave you, would not that have done as well as for you to feel
   it?" "Oh, yes," replied the man, "if God said it, of course I would
   believe it." "Very well, He does say so," was the lady's answer, and
   she turned to the verse we have taken above 1 John 1:9) and read it
   aloud. "Now," she continued, "you have been all these three years
   confessing and confessing your sin, and all the while God's record has
   been declaring that He was faithful and just to forgive it and to
   cleanse you, and yet you have never once believed it. You have been
   `making God a liar' all this while by refusing to believe His record."

   The poor man saw the whole thing, and was dumb with amazement and
   consternation; and when the lady proposed they should kneel down, and
   that he should confess his past unbelief and sin, and should claim,
   then and there, a present forgiveness and a present cleansing, he
   obeyed like one in a maze. But the result was glorious. In a few
   moments the light broke in, and he burst out into praise at the
   wonderful deliverance. In three minutes his soul was enabled to
   traverse back by faith the whole long weary journey that he had been
   three years in making, and he found himself once more resting in Jesus,
   and rejoicing in the fulness of His salvation.

   The other illustration was the case of a Christian lady who had been
   living in the land of promise about two weeks, and who had had a very
   bright and victorious experience. Suddenly, at the end of that time,
   she was overcome by a violent burst of anger. For a moment a flood of
   discouragement swept over her soul. The enemy said, "There, now, that
   shows it was all a mistake. Of course you have been deceived about the
   whole thing, and have never entered into the life of full trust at all.
   And now you may as well give up altogether, for you never can
   consecrate yourself any more entirely, nor trust any more fully, than
   you did this time; so it is very plain this life of holiness is not for
   you!" These thoughts flashed through her mind in a moment, but she was
   well taught in the ways of God, and she said at once, "Yes, I have
   sinned, and it is very sad. But the Bible says that if we confess our
   sins, God is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us
   from all unrighteousness, and I believe He will do it."

   She did not delay a moment, but while still boiling over with anger,
   she ran, she could not walk, into a room where she could be alone, and
   kneeling down beside the bed, she said, "Lord, I confess my sin. I have
   sinned, I am even at this very moment sinning. I hate it, but I cannot
   get rid of it. I confess it with shame and confusion of face to Thee.
   And now I believe that, according to Thy word, Thou dost forgive and
   Thou dost cleanse." She said it out loud, for the inward turmoil was
   too great for it to be said inside. As the words "Thou dost forgive and
   Thou dost cleanse" passed her lips, the deliverance came. The Lord
   said, "Peace, be still," and there was a great calm. A flood of light
   and joy burst on her soul, the enemy fled, and she was more than
   conqueror through Him that loved her. The whole thing, the sin and the
   recovery from it, had occupied not five minutes, and her feet trod on
   more firmly than ever in the blessed highway of holiness. Thus the
   valley of Achor became to her a door of hope, and she sang afresh and
   with deeper meaning her song of deliverance, "I will sing unto the
   Lord, for He hath triumphed gloriously."

   The truth is, the only remedy, after all in every emergency, is to
   trust in the Lord. And if this is all we ought to do, and all we can
   do, is it not better to do it at once? I have often been brought up
   short by the question, "Well, what can I do but trust?" And I have
   realized at once the folly of seeking for deliverance in any other way,
   by saying to myself, "I shall have to come to simple trusting in the
   end, and why not come to it at once now in the beginning?" It is a life
   and walk of faith we have entered upon, and if we fail in it our only
   recovery must lie in an increase of faith, not in a lessening of it.

   Let every failure, then, if any occur, drive you instantly to the Lord,
   with a more complete abandonment and a more perfect trust; and you will
   find that, sad as they are, they will not take you out of the land of
   rest, nor permanently interrupt your sweet communion with Him.

   And now, having shown the way of deliverance from failure, I want to
   say a little as to the causes of failure in this life of full
   salvation. The causes do not lie in the strength of the temptation nor
   in our own weakness, nor, above all, in any lack in the power or
   willingness of our Saviour to save us. The promise to Israel was
   positive, "There shall not any man be able to stand before thee all the
   days of thy life." And the promise to us is equally positive. "God is
   faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able;
   but will with the temptation also make a way of escape that ye may be
   able to bear it."

   The men of Ai were "but few," and yet the people who had conquered the
   mighty Jericho "fled before the men of Ai." It was not the strength of
   their enemy, neither had God failed them. The cause of their defeat lay
   somewhere else, and the Lord Himself declares it, "Israel hath sinned,
   and they have also transgressed my covenant which I commanded them; for
   they have even taken of the accursed thing, and have also stolen and
   dissembled also, and they have put it even among their own stuff.
   Therefore the children of Israel could not stand before their enemies,
   but turned their backs upon their enemies." It was a hidden evil that
   conquered them. Deep down under the earth, in an obscure tent in that
   vast army, was hidden something against which God had a controversy,
   and this little hidden thing made the whole army helpless before their
   enemies. "There is an accursed thing in the midst of thee, O Israel;
   thou canst not stand before thine enemies until ye take away the
   accursed thing from among you."

   The teaching here is simply this, that anything allowed in the heart
   which is contrary to the will of God, let it seem ever so
   insignificant, or be ever so deeply hidden, will cause us to fall
   before our enemies. Any root of bitterness cherished towards another,
   any self-seeking and harsh judgments indulged in, any slackness in
   obeying the voice of the Lord, any doubtful habits or surroundings, any
   one of these things will effectually cripple and paralyze our spiritual
   life. We may have hidden the evil in the most remote corner of our
   hearts, and may have covered it over from our sight, refusing even to
   recognize its existence, of which, however, we cannot help being all
   the time secretly aware. We may steadily ignore it, and persist in
   declarations of consecration and full trust, we may be more earnest
   than ever in our religious duties, and have the eyes of our
   understanding opened more and more to the truth and the beauty of the
   life and walk of faith. We may seem to ourselves and to others to have
   reached an almost impregnable position of victory, and yet we may find
   ourselves suffering bitter defeats. We may wonder, and question, and
   despair, and pray; nothing will do any good until the accursed thing is
   dug up from its hiding-place, brought out to the light, and laid before
   God. And the moment a believer who is walking in this interior life
   meets with a defeat, he must at once seek for the cause not in the
   strength of that particular enemy, but in something behind, some hidden
   want of consecration lying at the very centre of his being. Just as a
   headache is not the disease itself, but only a symptom of a disease
   situated in some other part of the body, so the sin in such a Christian
   is only the symptom of an evil hidden probably in a very different part
   of his being.

   Sometimes the evil may be hidden even in that, which at a cursory
   glance, would look like good. Beneath apparent zeal for the truth, may
   be hidden a judging spirit, or a subtle leaning to our own
   understanding. Beneath apparent Christian faithfulness, may be hidden
   an absence of Christian love. Beneath an apparently rightful care for
   our affairs, may be hidden a great want of trust in God. I believe our
   blessed Guide, the indwelling Holy Spirit, is always secretly
   discovering these things to us by continual little twinges and pangs of
   conscience, so that we are left without excuse. But it is very easy to
   disregard His gentle voice, and insist upon it to ourselves that all is
   right; and thus the fatal evil will continue hidden in our midst
   causing defeat in most unexpected quarters.

   A capital illustration of this occurred to me once in my housekeeping.
   I had moved into a new house and, in looking over it to see if it was
   all ready for occupancy, I noticed in the cellar a very clean-looking
   cider-cask headed up at both ends. I debated with myself whether I
   should have it taken out of the cellar and opened to see what was in
   it, but concluded, as it seemed empty and looked nice, to leave it
   undisturbed, especially as it would have been quite a piece of work to
   get it up the stairs. I did not feel quite easy, but reasoned away my
   scruples and left it. Every spring and fall, when house-cleaning time
   came on, I would remember that cask, with a little twinge of my
   housewifely conscience, feeling that I could not quite rest in the
   thought of a perfectly cleaned house, while it remained unopened, for
   how did I know but under its fair exterior it contained some hidden
   evil. Still I managed to quiet my scruples on the subject, thinking
   always of the trouble it would involve to investigate it; and for two
   or three years the innocent-looking cask stood quietly in my cellar.

   Then, most unaccountably, moths began to fill my house. I used every
   possible precaution against them, and made every effort to eradicate
   them, but in vain. They increased rapidly and threatened to ruin
   everything I had. I suspected my carpets as being the cause, and
   subjected them to a thorough cleaning. I suspected my furniture, and
   had it newly upholstered. I suspected all sorts of impossible things.
   At last the thought of the cask flashed on me. At once I had it brought
   up out of the cellar and the head knocked in, and I think it is safe to
   say that thousands of moths poured out. The previous occupant of the
   house must have headed it up with something in it which bred moths, and
   this was the cause of all my trouble.

   Now I believe that, in the same way, some innocent-looking habit or
   indulgence, some apparently unimportant and safe thing, about which we
   yet have now and then little twinges of conscience, something which is
   not brought out fairly into the light, and investigated under the
   searching eye of God, lies at the root of most of the failure in this
   higher life. All is not given up. Some secret corner is kept locked
   against the entrance of the Lord. And therefore we cannot stand before
   our enemies, but find ourselves smitten down in their presence.

   In order to prevent failure, or to discover its cause if we have
   failed, it is necessary that we should keep continually before us this
   prayer, "Search me, O God, and know my heart; try me and know my
   thoughts; and see if there be any evil way in me, and lead me in the
   way everlasting."

   There may be something very deceptive in our sufferings over our
   failures. We may seem to ourselves to be wholly occupied with the glory
   of God, and yet in our inmost souls it may be self alone that occasions
   all our trouble. Our self-love is touched in a tender spot by the
   discovery that we are not so saintly as we thought we were; and this
   chagrin is often a greater sin than the original fault itself.

   The only safe way to treat our failures is neither to justify nor
   condemn ourselves on account of them, but to lay them quietly and in
   simplicity before the Lord, looking at them in peace and in the spirit
   of love.

   All the old mystic writers tell us that our progress is aided far more
   by a simple, peaceful turning to God, than by all our chagrin and
   remorse over our lapses from Him. Only be faithful, they say, in
   turning quietly to Him alone, the moment you perceive what you have
   done, and His presence will deliver you from the snares which have
   entrapped you. To look at self plunges you deeper into the slough, for
   this very slough is after all nothing but self; while the gentlest look
   towards God will calm and deliver your heart.

   Finally, let us never forget for one moment, no matter how often we may
   fail, that the Lord Jesus able, according to the declaration concerning
   Him, to deliver us out of the hands of our enemies, that we may "serve
   Him without fear, in holiness and righteousness before Him all the days
   of our life."

   Let us then pray, every one of us, day and night, "Lord, keep us from
   sinning, and make us living witnesses of Thy mighty power to save to
   the uttermost"; and let us never be satisfied until we are so pliable
   in His hands, and have learned so to trust Him, that He will be able to
   "make us perfect, in every good work to do His will, working in us that
   which is well-pleasing in His sight, through Jesus Christ; to whom be
   glory for ever and ever. Amen."
     __________________________________________________________________

    Chapter 14

  DOUBTS

   A great many Christians are slaves to the habit of doubting. No
   drunkard was ever more utterly bound by the chains of his fatal habit
   than they are by theirs. Every step of their whole Christian life is
   taken against the fearful odds of an army of doubts, that are forever
   lying in wait to assail them at each favorable moment. Their lives are
   made wretched, their usefulness is effectually hindered, and their
   communion with God is continually broken by their doubts. And although
   the entrance of the soul upon the life of faith, of which this book
   treats, does in many cases take it altogether out of the region where
   these doubts live and flourish; yet even here it sometimes happens that
   the old tyrant will rise up and reassert his sway, and will cause the
   feet to stumble and the heart to fail, even when he cannot succeed in
   utterly turning the believer back into the dreary wilderness again.

   We all of us remember, doubtless, the childish fascination, and yet
   horror, of that story of Christian's imprisonment in Doubting Castle by
   the wicked giant Despair, and our exultant sympathy in his escape
   through those massive gates and from that cruel tyrant. Little did we
   suspect then that we should ever find ourselves taken prisoner by the
   same giant, and imprisoned in the same castle. And yet I fear to every
   member of the Church of Christ there has been at least one such
   experience. Turn to the account again, if it is not fresh in your
   minds, and see if you do not see pictured there experiences of your own
   that have been very grievous to bear at the time, and very sorrowful to
   look back upon afterwards.

   It seems strange that people, whose very name of Believers implies that
   their one chiefest characteristic is that they believe, should have to
   confess to such experiences. And yet it is such a universal habit that
   I feel if the majority of the Church were to be named over again, the
   only fitting and descriptive name that could be given them would be
   that of Doubters. In fact, most Christians have settled down under
   their doubts, as to a sort of inevitable malady, from which they suffer
   acutely, but to which they must try to be resigned as a part of the
   necessary discipline of this earthly life. And they lament over their
   doubts as a man might lament over his rheumatism, making themselves out
   as an "interesting case" of especial and peculiar trial, which requires
   the tenderest sympathy and the utmost consideration.

   And this is too often true of believers, who are earnestly longing to
   enter upon the life and walk of faith, and who have made perhaps many
   steps towards it. They have got rid, it may be, of the old doubts that
   once tormented them, as to whether their sins are really forgiven, and
   whether they shall, after all, get safe to Heaven; but they have not
   got rid of doubting. They have simply shifted the habit to a higher
   platform. They are saying, perhaps, "Yes, I believe my sins are
   forgiven, and I am a child of God through faith in Jesus Christ. I dare
   not doubt this any more. But then--" And this "but then" includes an
   interminable array of doubts concerning every declaration and every
   promise our Father has made to His children. One after another they
   fight with them and refuse to believe them, until they can have some
   more reliable proof of their being true, than the simple word of their
   God. And then they wonder why they are permitted to walk in such
   darkness, and look upon themselves almost in the light of martyrs, and
   groan under the peculiar spiritual conflicts they are compelled to
   endure.

   Spiritual conflicts! Far better would they be named did we call them
   spiritual rebellions! Our fight is to be a fight of faith, and the
   moment we doubt, our fight ceases and our rebellion begins.

   I desire to put forth, if possible, one vigorous protest against this
   whole thing. Just as well might I join in with the lament of a drunkard
   and unite with him in prayer for grace to endure the discipline of his
   fatal indulgence, as to give way for one instant to the weak complaints
   of these enslaved souls, and try to console them under their slavery.
   To one and to the other I would dare to do nothing else but proclaim
   the perfect deliverance the Lord Jesus Christ has in store or them, and
   beseech, entreat, command them, with all the force of my whole nature,
   to avail themselves of it and be free. Not for one moment would I
   listen to their despairing excuses. You ought to be free, you can be
   free, you MUST be free!

   Will you undertake to tell me that it is an inevitable necessity for
   God to be doubted by His children? Is it an inevitable necessity for
   your children to doubt you? Would you tolerate their doubts a single
   hour? Would you pity your son and condole with him, and feel that he
   was an interesting case, if he should come to you and say, "Father, I
   cannot believe your word, I cannot trust your love"?

   I remember once seeing the indignation of a mother I knew, stirred to
   its very depths by a little doubting on the part of one of her
   children. She had brought two little girls to my house to leave them
   while she did some errands. One of them, with the happy confidence of
   childhood, abandoned herself to all the pleasures she could find in my
   nursery, and sang and played until her mother's return. The other one,
   with the wretched caution and mistrust of maturity, sat down alone in a
   corner to wonder whether her mother would remember to come back for
   her, and to fear she would be forgotten, and to imagine her mother
   would be glad of the chance to get rid of her anyhow, because she was
   such a naughty girl, and ended with working herself up into a perfect
   frenzy of despair. The look on that mother's face, when upon her return
   the weeping little girl told what was the matter with her, I shall not
   easily forget. Grief, wounded love, indignation, and pity, all strove
   together for mastery. But indignation gained the day, and I doubt if
   that little girl was ever so vigorously dealt with before. A hundred
   times in my life since has that scene come up before me with deepest
   teaching, and has compelled me, peremptorily, to refuse admittance to
   the doubts about my Heavenly Father's love, and care, and remembrance
   of me, that have clamored at the door of my heart for entrance.

   I am convinced that to many people doubting is a real luxury, and to
   deny themselves from indulging in it would be to exercise the hardest
   piece of self-denial they have ever known. It is a luxury that, like
   the indulgence in all other luxuries, brings very sorrowful results;
   and, perhaps, looking at the sadness and misery it has brought into
   your own Christian experience, you may be tempted to say, "Alas! This
   is no luxury to me, but only a fearful trial." But pause for a moment.
   Try giving it up, and you will soon find out whether it is a luxury or
   not. Do not your doubts come trooping to your door as a company of
   sympathizing friends, who appreciate your hard case, and have come to
   condole with you? And is it no luxury to sit down with them and
   entertain them, and listen to their arguments, and join in with their
   condolences? Would it be no self-denial to turn resolutely from them,
   and refuse to hear a word they have to say? If you do not know, try it
   and see.

   Have you never tasted the luxury of indulging in hard thoughts against
   those who have, as you think, injured you? Have you never known what a
   positive fascination it is to brood over their unkindnesses, and to pry
   into their malice, and to imagine all sorts of wrong and uncomfortable
   things about them? It has made you wretched, of course, but it has been
   a fascinating sort of wretchedness that you could not easily give up.

   And just like this is the luxury of doubting. Things have gone wrong
   with you in your experience. Dispensations have been mysterious,
   temptations have been peculiar, your case has seemed different from
   that of any one's around you. What more natural than to conclude that
   for some reason God has forsaken you, and does not love you, and is
   indifferent to your welfare? And how irresistible is the conviction
   that you are too wicked for Him to care for, or too difficult for Him
   to manage.

   You do not mean to blame Him, or accuse Him of injustice, for you feel
   that His indifference and rejection of you are fully deserved because
   of your unworthiness. And this very subterfuge leaves you at liberty to
   indulge in your doubts under the guise of a just and true appreciation
   of your own shortcomings. But all the while you are as really indulging
   in hard and wrong thoughts of your Lord as ever you did of a human
   enemy; for He says He came not to save the righteous, but sinners; and
   your very sinfulness and unworthiness is your chiefest claim upon His
   love and His care.

   As well might the poor little lamb that has wandered from the flock and
   got lost in the wilderness say, "The shepherd does not love me, nor
   care for me, nor remember me, because I am lost. He only loves and
   cares for the lambs that never wander." As well might the ill man say,
   "The doctor will not come to see me, nor give me any medicines, because
   I am ill. He only cares for and visits well people." Jesus says, "They
   that are whole need not a physician, but they that are sick." And again
   He says, "What man of you, having an hundred sheep, if he lose one of
   them, doth not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness, and go
   after that which is lost, until he find it?" Any thoughts of Him,
   therefore, which are different from what He says of Himself, are hard
   thoughts; and to indulge in them is far worse than to indulge in hard
   thoughts of any earthly friend or foe. From the beginning to the end of
   your Christian life it is always sinful to indulge in doubts. Doubts
   are all from the devil, and are always untrue. And the only way to meet
   them is by a direct and emphatic denial.

   And this brings me to the practical part of the whole subject, as to
   how to get deliverance from this fatal habit. My answer would be that
   the deliverance from this can be by no other means than the deliverance
   from any other sin. It is to be found in the Lord and in Him only. You
   must hand your doubting over to Him, as you have learned to hand your
   other temptations. You must do just what you do with your temper, or
   your pride. You must give it up to the Lord. I believe myself the only
   effectual remedy is to take a pledge against it as you would urge a
   drunkard to do against drink, trusting in the Lord alone to keep you
   steadfast.

   Like any other sin, the stronghold is in the will and the will to doubt
   must be surrendered exactly as you surrender the will to yield to any
   other temptation. God always takes possession of a surrendered will.
   And if we come to the point of saying that we will not doubt, and
   surrender this central fortress of our nature to Him, His blessed
   Spirit will begin at once to work in us all the good pleasure of His
   will, and we shall find ourselves kept from doubting by His mighty and
   overcoming power.

   The trouble is that in this matter of doubting the soul does not always
   make a full surrender, but is apt to reserve to itself a little secret
   liberty to doubt, looking upon it as being sometimes a necessity. "I do
   not want to doubt any more," we will say, or, "I hope I shall not"; but
   it is hard to come to the point of saying, "I will not doubt again."
   But no surrender is effectual until it reaches the point of saying, "I
   will not." The liberty to doubt must be given up forever. And the soul
   must consent to a continuous life of inevitable trust. It is often
   necessary, I think, to make a definite transaction of this surrender of
   doubting, and to come to a point about it. I believe it is quite as
   necessary in the case of a doubter as in the case of a drunkard. It
   will not do to give it up by degrees. The total abstinence principle is
   the only effectual one here.

   Then, the surrender once made, the soul must rest absolutely upon the
   Lord for deliverance in each time of temptation. It must lift up the
   shield of faith the moment the assault comes. It must hand the very
   first suggestion of doubt over to the Lord, and must tell the enemy to
   settle the matter with Him. It must refuse to listen to the doubt a
   single moment. Let it come ever so plausibly, or under whatever guise
   of humility, the soul must simply say, "I dare not doubt; I must trust.
   The Lord is good, and HE DOES love me. Jesus saves me; He saves me
   now." Those three little words, repeated over and over,--"Jesus saves
   me, Jesus saves me,"--will put to flight the greatest army of doubts
   that ever assaulted any soul. I have tried it times without number, and
   have never known it to fail. Do not stop to argue the matter out with
   your doubts, nor try to prove that they are wrong. Pay no attention to
   them whatever; treat them with the utmost contempt. Shut your door in
   their faces, and emphatically deny every word they say to you. Bring up
   some "It is written," and hurl it after them. Look right at Jesus, and
   tell Him you trust Him, and you mean to trust Him. Let the doubts
   clamor as they may, they cannot hurt you if you will not let them in.

   I know it will look to you sometimes as though you were shutting the
   door against your best friends, and your heart will long after your
   doubts more than ever the Israelites longed after the flesh-pots of
   Egypt. But deny yourself; take up your cross in this matter, and
   unmercifully refuse ever to listen to a single word.

   This very day a perfect army of doubts stood awaiting my awaking, and
   clamored at my door for admittance. Nothing seemed real, nothing seemed
   true; and least of all did it seem possible that I--miserable,
   wretched--could be the object of the Lord's love, or care, or notice.
   If I only had been at liberty to let these doubts in, and invite them
   to take seats and make themselves at home, what a luxury I should have
   felt it to be! But years ago I made a pledge against doubting; and I
   would as soon think of violating my pledge against intoxicating liquor
   as to violate this one. I DARED not admit the first doubt. I therefore
   lifted up my shield of faith the moment I was conscious of these
   suggestions, and handing the whole army over to my Lord to conquer, I
   began to say, over and over, "The Lord does love me. He is my present
   and my perfect Saviour; Jesus saves me, Jesus saves me now!" The
   victory was complete. The enemy had come in like a flood, but the Lord
   lifted up a standard against him, and he was routed and put to flight;
   and my soul is singing the song of Moses and the children of Israel,
   saying, "I will sing unto the Lord, for He hath triumphed gloriously:
   the horse and his rider hath He thrown into the sea. The Lord is my
   strength and my song, and He is become my salvation. The Lord is a man
   of war; the Lord is His name."

   It will help you to resist the assaults of this temptation to doubt, to
   see clearly that doubting is sin. It is certainly a direct disobedience
   to our Lord, who commands us, "Let not your heart be troubled, neither
   let it be afraid." And all through the Bible everywhere the commands to
   trust are imperative, and admit of no exceptions. Time and room would
   fail me to refer to one hundredth part of these, but no one can read
   the Psalms without being convinced that the man who trusts without a
   question, is the only man who pleases God and is accepted of Him. The
   "provocation" of Israel was that they did not trust; "anger also came
   up against Israel, because they believed not in God, and trusted not in
   His salvation." (Psalms 78:17-22.) And in contrast, we read in Isaiah
   concerning those who trust, "Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace whose
   mind is stayed on Thee, because he trusteth in Thee." Nothing grieves
   or wounds our hearts like doubting on the part of a friend, and
   nothing, I am convinced, grieves the heart of God more than doubting
   from us.

   One of my children, who is now with the Lord, said to me one evening as
   I was tucking her up in bed, "Well, mother, I have had my first doubt."
   "Oh, Ray," I said, "what was it?" "Why," she replied, "Satan came to me
   and told me not to believe the Bible, for it was not a word of it
   true." "And what did thee say to him?" I asked. "Oh," she replied,
   triumphantly, "I just said to him, Satan, I will believe it. So there!"
   I was delighted with the child's spiritual intelligence in knowing so
   well how to meet doubts, and encouraged her with all my heart,
   explaining to her how all doubts and discouragements are from the
   enemy, and how he is always a liar and must not be listened to for a
   moment. The next night, I had forgotten all about it, however, and was
   surprised and startled when she said, as I was tucking her in bed,
   "Well, mother, Satan has been at it again." "Oh, Ray darling!" I
   exclaimed in dismay, "what did he say this time?" "Well," she replied,
   "he just told me that I was such a naughty little girl that Jesus could
   not love me, and I was foolish to think He did." "And what did thee say
   this time?" I asked. "Oh!" she replied, "I just looked at him cross and
   said, Satan, shut thy mouth!" And then she added, with a smile, "He
   can't make me unhappy one bit." A grander battle no soul ever fought
   than this little child had done, and no greater victory was ever won!

   Dear, doubting soul, go and do likewise; and a similar victory shall be
   thine. As you lay down this book take up your pen and write out your
   determination never to doubt again. Make it a real transaction between
   your soul and the Lord. Give up your liberty to doubt forever. Put your
   will in this matter over on the Lord's side, and trust Him to keep you
   from falling. Tell him all about your utter weakness and your
   long-encouraged habits of doubt, and how helpless you are before your
   enemy, and commit the whole battle to Him. Tell Him you will not doubt
   again; and then henceforward keep your face steadfastly looking unto
   Jesus, away from yourself and away from your doubts, holding fast the
   profession of your faith without wavering, because He is faithful who
   has promised. And as surely as you do thus hold the beginning of your
   confidence steadfast unto the end, just so surely shall you find
   yourself in this matter made more than conqueror, through Him who loves
   you.
     __________________________________________________________________

    Chapter 15

  PRACTICAL RESULTS IN THE DAILY WALK AND CONVERSATION

   If all that has been said concerning the life hid with Christ in God be
   true, its results in the practical daily walk and conversation ought to
   be very marked, and the people who have entered into the enjoyment of
   it ought to be, in very truth, a "peculiar people, zealous of good
   works."

   My son at college once wrote to a friend to this effect: that
   Christians are God's witnesses necessarily, because the world will not
   read the Bible, but they will read our lives; and that upon the report
   these give will very much depend their belief in the Divine nature of
   the religion we profess. As we all know, this is an age of facts, and
   inquiries are being increasingly turned from theories to realities. If
   our religion is to make any headway now, it must be proved to be more
   than a theory, and we must present, to the investigation of the
   critical minds of our age, the grand facts of lives which have been
   actually and manifestly transformed by the mighty power of God working
   in us all the good pleasure of His will. Give us "forms of life," say
   the scientists, and we will be convinced. And when the Church is able
   to present to them in all its members, the form of a holy life, their
   last stronghold will be conquered.

   I desire, therefore, before closing my book, to speak very solemnly of
   what I conceive to be the necessary fruits of a life of faith, such as
   I have been describing, and to press home to the hearts of every one of
   my readers their responsibility to walk worthy of the high calling
   wherewith they have been called.

   And I would speak to some of you, at least, as personal friends, for I
   feel sure we have not gone this far together through this book without
   there having grown in your hearts, as there has in mine, a tender
   personal interest and longing for one another, that we may in
   everything show forth the praises of Him who has called us out of
   darkness into His marvellous light. As a friend, then, to friends, I am
   sure I may speak very plainly, and will be pardoned if I go into some
   particulars of life and character which are vital to all true Christian
   development.

   The standard of practical holy living has been so low among Christians
   that any good degree of real devotedness of life and walk is looked
   upon with surprise, and even often with disapprobation, by a large
   portion of the Church. And, for the most part, the professed followers
   of the Lord Jesus Christ are so little like Him in character or in
   action, that to an outside observer there would not seem to be much
   harmony between them.

   But we, who have heard the call of our God to a life of entire
   consecration and perfect trust, must do differently from all this. We
   must come out from the world and be separate, and must not be conformed
   to it in our characters nor in our purposes. We must no longer share in
   its spirit or its ways. Our conversation must be in Heaven, and we must
   seek those things that are above, where Christ sitteth on the right
   hand of God. We must walk through the world as Christ walked. We must
   have the mind that was in Him. As pilgrims and strangers we must
   abstain from fleshly lusts that war against the soul. As good soldiers
   of Jesus Christ, we must disentangle ourselves from the affairs of this
   life as far as possible, that we may please Him who hath chosen us to
   be soldiers. We must abstain from all appearance of evil. We must be
   kind one to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God,
   for Christ's sake, hath forgiven us. We must not resent injuries or
   unkindness, but must return good for evil, and turn the other cheek to
   the hand that smites us. We must take always the lowest place among our
   fellowmen; and seek not our own honor, but the honor of others. We must
   be gentle, and meek, and yielding; not standing up for our own rights,
   but for the rights of others. All that we do must be done for the glory
   of God. And, to sum it all up, since He which hath called us is holy,
   so we must be holy in a manner of conversation; because it is written,
   "Be ye holy, for I am holy."

   Now, dear friends, this is all exceedingly practical and means, surely,
   a life very different from the lives of most professors around us. It
   means that we do really and absolutely turn our backs on self, and on
   self's motives and self's aims. It means that we are a peculiar people,
   not only in the eyes of God, but in the eyes of the world around us;
   and that, wherever we go, it will be known from our Christlike lives
   and conversation that we are followers of the Lord Jesus Christ; and
   are not of the world, even as He was not of the world. We shall no
   longer feel that our money is our own, but the Lord's, to be used in
   His service. We shall not feel at liberty to use our energies
   exclusively in the pursuit of worldly means, but, seeking first the
   kingdom of God and His righteousness, shall have all needful things
   added unto us. We shall find ourselves forbidden to seek the highest
   places, or to strain after worldly advantages. We shall not be
   permitted to be conformed to the world in our ways of thinking or of
   living. We shall feel no desire to indulge in the world's frivolous
   pursuits. We shall find our affections set upon heavenly things, rather
   than upon earthly things. Our days will be spent not in serving
   ourselves, but in serving our Lord; and all our rightful duties will be
   more perfectly performed than ever, because whatever we do will be done
   "not with eye-service as men-pleasers, but as the servants of Christ,
   doing the will of God from the heart."

   Into all these things we shall undoubtedly be led by the blessed Spirit
   of God, if we give ourselves up to His guidance. But unless we have the
   right standard of Christian life set before us, we shall be hindered by
   our ignorance from recognizing His voice; and it is for this reason I
   desire to be very plain and definite in my statements.

   I have noticed that wherever there has been a faithful following of the
   Lord in a consecrated soul, several things have inevitably followed,
   sooner or later.

   Meekness and quietness of spirit become in time the characteristics of
   the daily life; a submissive acceptance of the will of God, as it comes
   in the hourly events of each day; pliability in the hands of God to do
   or to suffer all the good pleasure of His will; sweetness under
   provocation; calmness in the midst of turmoil and bustle; yieldingness
   to the wishes of others, and an insensibility to slights and affronts,
   absence of worry or anxiety; deliverance from care and fear: all these,
   and many other similar graces are invariably found to be the natural
   outward development of that inward life which is hid with Christ in
   God. Then as to the habits of life: we always see such Christians
   sooner or later giving themselves up to some work for God and their
   fellowmen, willing to spend and be spent in the Master's service. They
   become indifferent to outward show in the furniture of their houses and
   the style of their living, and make all personal adornment secondary to
   the things of God. The voice is dedicated to God, to talk and sing for
   Him. The purse is placed at His disposal. The pen is dedicated to write
   for Him, the lips to speak for Him, the hands and the feet to do His
   bidding. Year after year such Christians are seen to grow more
   unworldly, more heavenly-minded, more transformed, more like Christ,
   until even their very faces express so much of the beautiful inward
   Divine life, that all who look at them cannot but take knowledge of
   them that they live with God, and are abiding in Him.

   I feel sure that to each one of you have come at least some Divine
   intimations or foreshadowings of the life I here describe. Have you not
   begun to feel dimly conscious of the voice of God speaking to you in
   the depths of your soul about these things? Has it not been a pain and
   a distress to you of late to discover how much there is wrong in your
   life? Has not your soul been plunged into inward trouble and doubt
   about certain dispositions and ways, in which you have been formerly
   accustomed to indulge? Have you not begun to feel uneasy with some of
   your habits of life, and to wish that you could do differently in these
   respects? Have not paths of devotedness and of service begun to open
   out before you, with the longing thought, "Oh, that I could walk in
   them"?

   All these longings and doubts, and this inward distress, are the voice
   of the Good Shepherd in your heart seeking to call you out of all that
   is contrary to His will. Oh! let me entreat of you not to turn away
   from His gentle pleadings. You little know the secret paths into which
   He means to lead you by these very steps, nor the wonderful stores of
   blessedness that lie at their end, or you would spring forward with an
   eager joy to yield to every one of His requirements. The heights of
   Christian perfection can only be reached by faithfully following the
   Guide who is to lead you there, and He reveals your way to you one step
   at a time in the teachings and providences of your daily lives, asking
   only on your part that you yield yourselves up to His guidance. If,
   then, in anything you are convinced of sin, be sure that it is the
   voice of your Lord, and surrender it at once to His bidding, rejoicing
   with a great joy that He has begun thus to lead and guide you. Be
   perfectly pliable in His wise hands, go where He entices you, turn away
   from all from which He makes you shrink, obey Him perfectly; and He
   will lead you out swiftly and easily into a wonderful life of
   conformity to Himself, that will be a testimony to all around you,
   beyond what you yourself will ever know.

   I knew a soul thus given up to follow the Lord whithersoever He might
   lead her, who in three short months travelled from the depths of
   darkness and despair into the realization and conscious experience of
   the most blessed union with the Lord Jesus Christ. Out of the midst of
   her darkness, she consecrated herself to the Lord, surrendering her
   will up altogether to Him, that He might work in her to will and to do
   of His own good pleasure. Immediately He began to speak to her by His
   Spirit in her heart, suggesting to her some little acts of service for
   Him, and calling her out of all un-Christlike dispositions and ways.
   She recognized His voice, and yielded to Him each thing He asked for,
   following Him whithersoever He might lead her, with no fear but the one
   fear of disobeying Him. He led her rapidly on, day by day conforming
   her more and more to His will, and making her life such a testimony to
   those around her, that even some who had begun by opposing and
   disbelieving, were forced to acknowledge that it was of God, and were
   won to a similar surrender. And, finally, after three short months of
   this faithful following, it came to pass, so swiftly had she gone, that
   her Lord was able to reveal to her wondering soul some of the deepest
   secrets of His love, and to fulfil to her the marvellous promise of
   Acts 1:5, baptizing her with the Holy Ghost. Think you she has ever
   regretted her wholehearted following of Him? Or that aught but
   thankfulness and joy can ever fill her soul when she reviews the steps
   by which her feet had been led to this place of wondrous blessedness,
   even though some of them may have seemed at the time hard to take? Ah!
   dear soul, if thou wouldst know a like blessing, abandon thyself, like
   her, to the guidance of the Divine Master, and shrink from no surrender
   for which He may call.


   "The perfect way is hard to flesh,

   It is not hard to love;

   If thou wert sick for want of God,

   How swiftly wouldst thou move."

   Surely thou canst trust Him! And if some things may be called for which
   look to thee of but little moment, and not worthy thy Lord's attention,
   remember that He sees not as man seeth, and that things small to thee
   may be in His eyes the key and the clue to the deepest springs of thy
   being. In order to mould thee into entire conformity to His will, He
   must have thee pliable in his hands, and this pliability is more
   quickly reached by yielding in the little things than even by the
   greater. Thy one great desire is to follow Him fully; canst thou not
   say then a continual "Yes, Lord!" to all His sweet commands, whether
   small or great, and trust Him to lead thee by the shortest road to thy
   fullest blessedness?

   My dear friend, this, and nothing less than this, is what thy
   consecration meant, whether thou knew it or not. It meant inevitable
   obedience. It meant that the will of thy God was henceforth to be thy
   will under all circumstances and at all times. It meant that from that
   moment thou surrendered thy liberty of choice, and gave thyself up
   utterly into the control of thy Lord. It meant an hourly following of
   Him whithersoever He might lead thee, without any dream of turning
   back.

   And now I appeal to thee to make good thy word. Let everything else go,
   that thou mayest live out, in a practical daily walk and conversation,
   the Divine life thou hast dwelling within thee. Thou art united to thy
   Lord by a wondrous tie; walk, then, as He walked, and show to the
   unbelieving world the blessed reality of His mighty power to save, by
   letting Him save thee to the very uttermost. Thou needst not fear to
   consent to this, for He is thy Saviour; and His power is to do it all.
   He is not asking thee, in thy poor weakness, to do it thyself; He only
   asks thee to yield thyself to Him, that He may work in thee to will and
   to do by His own mighty power. Thy part is to yield thyself, His part
   is to work; and never, never will He give thee any command which is not
   accompanied by ample power to obey it. Take no thought for the morrow
   in this matter; but abandon thyself with a generous trust to thy loving
   Lord, who has promised never to call His own sheep out into any path,
   without Himself going before them to make the way easy and safe. Take
   each onward step as He makes it plain to thee. Bring all thy life in
   each of its details to Him to regulate and guide. Follow gladly and
   quickly the sweet suggestions of His Spirit in thy soul. And day by day
   thou wilt find Him bringing thee more and more into conformity with His
   will in all things; moulding thee and fashioning thee, as thou art able
   to bear it, into a vessel unto His honor, sanctified and meet for His
   use, and fitted to every good work. So shall be given to thee the sweet
   joy of being an epistle of Christ known and read of all men; and thy
   light shall shine so brightly that men seeing, not thee, but thy good
   works, shall glorify, not thee, but thy Father which is in Heaven.

   We are predestined to be "conformed to the image" of God's Son. This
   means, of course, not a likeness of bodily presence, but a likeness of
   character and nature. It means a similarity of thought, of feeling, of
   desire, of loves, of hates. It means, that we are to think and act,
   according to our measure, as Christ would have thought and acted under
   our circumstances.

   A little girl was once questioned what it meant to be a Christian. She
   replied, "It means to be just what Christ would be, if He was a little
   girl and lived in my house."

   The secret of Christ's life was the pouring out of Himself for others;
   and if we are like Him, this will be the secret of our lives also. He
   saved others, but Himself He could not save. He "pleased not Himself,"
   and therefore we are "not to please ourselves," but rather our
   neighbor, when it is for his good.

   A thoughtful Hindoo religionist, who visited England and America lately
   to examine into Christianity, said, as the result of his observations,
   "What Christians need is a little more of Christ's Christianity, and a
   little less of man's."

   Man's Christianity teaches sacrifice to save ourselves; Christ's
   Christianity teaches sacrifice to save others. Man's Christianity
   produces the fruitless selfishness of too much of our religion.
   Christ's Christianity produces the blessed unselfishness of lives that
   are poured out for others, as was His.

   In short, then, the one practical outcome of all that our book has been
   teaching us, is simply this, that we are to be Christlike Christians.
   And all our experiences amount to nothing if they do not produce this
   result. For "not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter
   into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father
   which is in heaven."
     __________________________________________________________________

    Chapter 16

  THE JOY OF OBEDIENCE

   I remember reading once somewhere this sentence, "Perfect obedience
   would be perfect happiness, if only we had perfect confidence in the
   power we were obeying." I remember being struck with the saying, as the
   revelation of a possible, although hitherto undreamed-of way of
   happiness; and often afterwards, through all the lawlessness and
   wilfulness of my life, did that saying recur to me as the vision of a
   rest, and yet of a possible development, that would soothe and at the
   same time satisfy all my yearnings. Need I say that this rest has been
   revealed to me now, not as a vision, but as a reality; and that I have
   seen in the Lord Jesus, the Master to whom we may all yield up our
   implicit obedience, and, taking His yoke upon us, may find our perfect
   rest?

   You little know, dear hesitating soul, of the joy you are missing. The
   Master has revealed Himself to you, and is calling for your complete
   surrender, and you shrink and hesitate. A measure of surrender you are
   willing to make, and think indeed it is fit and proper you should. But
   an utter abandonment, without any reserves, seems to you too much to be
   asked for. You are afraid of it. It involves too much, you think, and
   is too great a task. To be measurably obedient you desire; to be
   perfectly obedient appalls you.

   And then, too, you see other souls who seem able to walk with easy
   consciences, in a far wider path than that which appears to be marked
   out for you, and you ask yourself why this need be. It seems strange,
   and perhaps hard to you, that you must do what they need not, and must
   leave undone what they have liberty to do.

   Ah! dear Christian, this very difference between you is your privilege,
   though you do not yet know it. Your Lord says, "He that hath my
   commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth Me; and he that
   loveth Me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will
   manifest Myself to him." You have His commandments; those you envy,
   have them not. You know the mind of your Lord about many things, in
   which, as yet, they are walking in darkness. Is not this a privilege?
   Is it a cause for regret that your soul is brought into such near and
   intimate relations with your Master, that He is able to tell you things
   which those who are further off may not know? Do you not realize what a
   tender degree of intimacy is implied in this?

   There are many relations in life which require from the different
   parties only very moderate degrees of devotion. We may have really
   pleasant friendships with one another, and yet spend a large part of
   our lives in separate interests, and widely differing pursuits. When
   together, we may greatly enjoy one another's society, and find many
   congenial points; but separation is not any especial distress to us,
   and other and more intimate friendships do not interfere. There is not
   enough love between us, to give us either the right or the desire to
   enter into and share one another's most private affairs. A certain
   degree of reserve and distance is the suitable thing, we feel. But
   there are other relations in life where all this is changed. The
   friendship becomes love. The two hearts give themselves to one another,
   to be no longer two but one. A union of souls takes place, which makes
   all that belongs to one the property of the other. Separate interests
   and separate paths in life are no longer possible. Things which were
   lawful before become unlawful now, because of the nearness of the tie
   that binds. The reserve and distance suitable to mere friendship
   becomes fatal in love. Love gives all, and must have all in return. The
   wishes of one become binding obligations to the other, and the deepest
   desire of each heart is, that it may know every secret wish or longing
   of the other, in order that it may fly on the wings of the wind to
   gratify it.

   Do such as these chafe under this yoke which love imposes? Do they envy
   the cool, calm, reasonable friendships they see around them, and regret
   the nearness into which their souls are brought to their beloved one,
   because of the obligations it creates? Do they not rather glory in
   these very obligations, and inwardly pity, with a tender yet exulting
   joy, the poor far-off ones who dare not come so near? Is not every
   fresh revelation of the mind of one another a fresh delight and
   privilege, and is any path found hard which their love compels them to
   travel?

   Ah! dear souls, if you have ever known this even for a few hours in any
   earthly relation; if you have ever loved a fellow human being enough to
   find sacrifice and service on their behalf a joy; if a whole-souled
   abandonment of your will to the will of another has ever gleamed across
   you as a blessed and longed-for privilege, or as a sweet and precious
   reality, then, by all the tender longing love of your heavenly Master,
   would I entreat you to let it be so towards God!

   He loves you with more than the love of friendship. As a bridegroom
   rejoices over his bride, so does He rejoice over you, and nothing but a
   full surrender will satisfy Him. He has given you all, and He asks for
   all in return. The slightest reserve will grieve Him to the heart. He
   spared not Himself, and how can you spare yourself? For your sake He
   poured out in a lavish abandonment all that He had, and for His sake
   you must pour out all that you have without stint or measure.

   Oh, be generous in your self-surrender! Meet His measureless devotion
   for you, with a measureless devotion to Him. Be glad and eager to throw
   yourself headlong into His dear arms, and to hand over the reins of
   government to Him. Whatever there is of you, let Him have it all. Give
   up forever everything that is separate from Him. Consent to resign from
   this time forward all liberty of choice; and glory in the blessed
   nearness of union which makes this enthusiasm of devotedness not only
   possible but necessary. Have you never longed to lavish your love and
   attentions upon someone far off from you in position or circumstances,
   with whom you were not intimate enough for any closer approach? Have
   you not felt a capacity for self-surrender and devotedness, that has
   seemed to burn within you like a fire, and yet had no object upon which
   it dared to lavish itself? Have not your hands been full of alabaster
   boxes of ointment, very precious, which you have never been near enough
   to any heart to pour out? If, then, you are hearing the sweet voice of
   your Lord calling you into a place of nearness to Himself, which will
   require a separation from all else, and which will make this enthusiasm
   of devotedness not only possible, but necessary will you shrink or
   hesitate? Will you think it hard that He reveals to you more of His
   mind than He does to others, and that He will not allow you to be happy
   in anything which separates you from Himself? Do you want to go where
   He cannot go with you, or to have pursuits which He cannot share?

   No! no, a thousand times, no! You will spring out to meet His dear will
   with an eager joy. Even His slightest wish will become a binding law to
   you, which it would fairly break your heart to disobey. You will glory
   in the very narrowness of the path He marks out for you, and will pity
   with an infinite pity the poor far-off ones who have missed this
   precious joy. The obligations of love will be to you its sweetest
   privileges; and the right you have acquired to lavish the uttermost
   abandonment of all that you have upon your Lord, will seem to lift you
   into a region of unspeakable glory. The perfect happiness of perfect
   obedience will dawn upon your soul, and you will begin to know
   something of what Jesus meant when He said, "I delight to do thy will,
   O my God."

   And do you think the joy in this will be all on your side? Has the Lord
   no joy in those who have thus surrendered themselves to Him, and who
   love to obey Him? Ah, my friends, we are not fit to speak of this but
   surely the Scriptures reveal to us glimpses of the delight, the
   satisfaction, the joy our Lord has in us, that ravish the soul with
   their marvellous suggestions of blessedness. That we should need Him,
   is easy to comprehend; that He should need us, seems incomprehensible.
   That our desire should be towards Him, is a matter of course; but that
   His desire should be towards us, passes the bounds of human belief. And
   yet, over and over He says it, and what can we do but believe Him? He
   has made our hearts capable of this supreme, overmastering affection,
   and has offered Himself as the object of it. It is infinitely precious
   to Him, and He says, "He that loveth me shall be loved of my Father,
   and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him." Continually at
   every heart He is knocking, and asking to be taken in as the supreme
   object of love. "Wilt thou have me," He says to the believer, "to be
   thy Beloved? Wilt thou follow me into suffering and loneliness, and
   endure hardness for my sake, and ask for no reward but my smile of
   approval, and my word of praise? Wilt thou throw thyself with an utter
   abandonment into my will? Wilt thou give up to me the absolute control
   of thyself and all that thou art? Wilt thou be content with pleasing me
   and me only? May I have my way with thee in all things? Wilt thou come
   into so close a union with me as to make a separation from the world
   necessary? Wilt thou accept me for thy only Lord, and leave all others,
   to cleave only unto Me?"

   In a thousand ways He makes this offer of oneness with Himself to every
   believer. But all do not say "Yes," to Him. Other loves and other
   interests seem to them too precious to be cast aside. They do not miss
   of Heaven because of this. But they miss an unspeakable joy.

   You, however, are not one of these. From the very first your soul has
   cried out eagerly and gladly to all His offers, "Yes, Lord; yes!" You
   are more than ready to pour out upon Him all your richest treasures of
   love and devotedness. You have brought to Him an enthusiasm of
   self-surrender that perhaps may disturb and distress the more prudent
   and moderate Christians around you. Your love makes necessary a
   separation from the world, which a lower love cannot even conceive of.
   Sacrifices and services are possible and sweet to you, which could not
   come into the grasp of a more half-hearted devotedness. The life upon
   which you have entered gives you the right to a lavish outpouring of
   your all upon your beloved One. Services, of which more distant souls
   know nothing, become now your sweetest privilege. Your Lord claims from
   you, because of your union with Him, far more than He claims of them.
   What to them is lawful, love has made unlawful for you. To you He can
   make known His secrets, and to you He looks for an instant response to
   every requirement of His love.

   Oh, it is wonderful! the glorious, unspeakable privilege upon which you
   have entered! How little it will matter to you if men shall hate you,
   or shall separate you from their company, and shall reproach you and
   cast out your name as evil for His dear sake! You may well "rejoice in
   that day and leap for joy"; for behold your reward is great in Heaven,
   and if you are a partaker of His suffering, you shall be also of His
   glory.

   In you He is seeing of the travail of His soul, and is satisfied. Your
   love and devotedness are His precious reward for all He has done for
   you. It is unspeakably sweet to Him. Do not be afraid then to let
   yourself go in a heart-whole devotedness to your Lord, that can brook
   no reserves. Others may not approve, but He will, and that is enough.
   Do not stint or measure your obedience or your service. Let your heart
   and your hand be as free to serve Him, as His heart and His hand were
   to serve you. Let Him have all there is of you, body, soul, and spirit,
   time, talents, voice, everything. Lay your whole life open before Him
   that He may control it. Say to Him each day, "Lord, how shall I
   regulate this day so as to please Thee? Where shall I go? what shall I
   do? whom shall I visit? what shall I say?" Give your intellect up into
   His control and say, "Lord, tell me how to think so as to please Thee?"
   Give Him your reading, your pursuits, your friendships, and say, "Lord,
   give me the insight to judge concerning all these things with Thy
   wisdom." Do not let there be a day nor an hour in which you are not
   intelligently doing His will, and following Him wholly. And this
   personal service to Him will give a halo to your life, and gild the
   most monotonous existence with a heavenly glow.

   Have you ever grieved that the romance of youth is so soon lost in the
   hard realities of the world? Bring God thus into your life and into all
   its details, and a far grander enthusiasm will thrill your soul than
   the brightest days of youth could ever know, and nothing will seem hard
   or stern again. The meanest life will be glorified by this. Often, as I
   have watched a poor woman at her wash-tub, and have thought of all the
   disheartening accessories of such a life, and have been tempted to
   wonder why such lives need to be, there has come over me, with a thrill
   of joy, the recollection of this possible glorification of it, and I
   have said to myself, Even this life, lived in Christ, and with Christ,
   following Him whithersoever He may lead, would be filled with an
   enthusiasm that would make every hour of it glorious. And I have gone
   on my way comforted to know that God's most wondrous blessings thus lie
   in the way of the poorest and the meanest lives. "For," says our Lord
   Himself, "whosoever," whether they be rich or poor, old or young, bond
   or free, "whosoever shall do the will of God, the same is my brother,
   and my sister, and my mother."

   Pause a moment over these simple yet amazing words. His brother, and
   sister, and mother! What would we not have given to have been one of
   these! Oh, let me entreat of you, beloved Christian, to come, taste and
   see for yourself how good the Lord is, and what wonderful things He has
   in store for those who "keep His commandments, and who do those things
   that are pleasing in His sight."

   "And it shall come to pass, if thou shalt hearken diligently unto the
   voice of the Lord thy God, to observe and to do all His commandments
   which I command thee this day, that the Lord thy God will set thee on
   high, above all nations of the earth; and all these blessings shall
   come on thee, and overtake thee, if thou shalt hearken unto the voice
   of the Lord thy God.

   "Blessed shalt thou be in the city, and blessed shalt thou be in the
   field.

   "Blessed shall be the fruit of thy body, and the fruit of thy ground,
   and the fruit of thy cattle, the increase of thy kine, and the flocks
   of thy sheep.

   "Blessed shall be thy basket and thy store.

   "Blessed shalt thou be when thou comest in, and blessed shalt thou be
   when thou goest out.

   "The Lord shall cause thine enemies that shall rise up against thee to
   be smitten before thy face; they shall come out against thee one way,
   and flee before thee seven ways.

   "The Lord shall command the blessing upon thee in thy storehouses, and
   in all that thou settest thine hand unto; and He shall bless thee in
   the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee.

   "The Lord shall establish thee an holy people unto Himself, as He hath
   sworn unto thee, if thou shalt keep the commandments of the Lord thy
   God, and walk in His ways.

   "And all people of the earth shall see that thou art called by the name
   of the Lord, and they shall be afraid of thee.

   "And the Lord shall make thee plenteous in goods, in the fruit of thy
   body, and in the fruit of thy cattle, in the fruit of thy ground, in
   the land which the Lord sware unto thy fathers to give thee.

   "And the Lord shall make thee the head, and not the tail; and thou
   shalt be above only, and thou shalt not be beneath; if that thou
   hearken unto the commandments of the Lord thy God, which I command thee
   this day, to observe and to do them."

   For the Israelites this was outward and temporal, for us it is inward
   and spiritual; and, as such, infinitely more glorious. May our
   surrendered wills leap out to embrace it in all its fulness!
     __________________________________________________________________

    Chapter 17

  ONENESS WITH CHRIST

   All the dealings of God with the soul of the believer are in order to
   bring him into oneness with Himself, that the prayer of our Lord may be
   fulfilled: "That they all may be one; as thou, Father, art in me and I
   in thee, that they also may be one in us." . . . "I in them, and thou
   in me, that they may be made perfect in one, and that the world may
   know that thou hast sent me, and hast loved them as thou hast loved
   me."

   This soul-union was the glorious purpose in the heart of God for His
   people before the foundation of the world. It was the mystery hid from
   ages and generations. It was accomplished in the incarnation of Christ.
   It has been made known by the Scriptures. And it is realized as an
   actual experience by many of God's dear children.

   But not by all. It is true of all, and God has not hidden it or made it
   hard, but the eyes of many are too dim and their hearts too
   unbelieving, and they fail to grasp it. And it is for the very purpose
   of bringing them into the personal and actual realization of this, that
   the Lord is stirring up believers everywhere at the present time to
   abandon themselves to Him, that He may work in them all the good
   pleasure of His will.

   All the previous steps in the Christian life lead up to this. The Lord
   has made us for it; and until we have intelligently apprehended it, and
   have voluntarily consented to embrace it, the travail of His soul for
   us is not satisfied, nor have our hearts found their destined and final
   rest.

   The usual course of Christian experience is pictured in the history of
   the disciples. First they were awakened to see their condition and
   their need, and they came to Christ and gave in their allegiance to
   Him. Then they followed Him, worked for Him, believed in Him; and yet,
   how unlike Him! seeking to be set up one above the other; running away
   from the cross; misunderstanding His mission and His words; forsaking
   their Lord in time of danger; but still sent out to preach, recognized
   by Him as His disciples, possessing power to work for Him. They knew
   Christ only "after the flesh," as outside of them, their Lord and
   Master, but not yet their Life.

   Then came Pentecost, and these disciples came to know Him as inwardly
   revealed; as one with them in actual union, their very indwelling Life.
   Henceforth He was to them Christ within, working in them to will and to
   do of His good pleasure; delivering them by the law of the Spirit of
   His life from the bondage to the law of sin and death, under which they
   had been held. No longer was it between themselves and Him, a war of
   wills and a clashing of interest. One will alone animated them, and
   that was His will. One interest alone was dear to them, and that was
   His. They were made ONE with Him.

   And surely all can recognize this picture, though perhaps as yet the
   final stage of it has not been fully reached. You may have left much to
   follow Christ, dear reader; you may have believed on him, and worked
   for Him, and loved Him, and yet may not be like Him. Allegiance you
   know, and confidence you know, but not yet union. There are two wills,
   two interests, two lives. You have not yet lost your own life that you
   may live only in His. Once it was I and not Christ; then it was I and
   Christ; perhaps now it is even Christ and I. But has it come yet to be
   Christ only, and not I at all?

   Perhaps you do not understand what this oneness means. Some people
   think it consists in a great emotion or a wonderful feeling of oneness,
   and they turn inward to examine their emotions, thinking to decide by
   the state of these, what is the state of their interior union with God.
   But nowhere is the mistake of trusting to feelings greater than here.

   Oneness with Christ must, in the very nature of things, consist in a
   Christ-like life and character. It is not what we feel, but what we are
   that settles the question. No matter how exalted or intense our
   emotions on the subject may be, if there is not a likeness of character
   with Christ, a unity of aim and purpose, a similarity of thought and of
   action, there can be no real oneness.

   This is plain common-sense, and it is Scriptural as well.

   We speak of two people being one, and we mean that their purposes, and
   actions, and thoughts, and desires are alike. A friend may pour out
   upon us enthusiastic expressions of love, and unity and oneness, but if
   that friend's aims, and actions, and ways of looking at things are
   exactly opposite to ours, we cannot feel there is any real oneness
   between us, notwithstanding all our affection for one another. To be
   truly one with another, we must have the same likes and dislikes, the
   same joys and sorrows, the same hopes and fears. As someone says, we
   must look through one another's eyes, and think with one another's
   brains. This is, as I said above, only plain common-sense.

   And oneness with Christ can be judged by no other rule. It is out of
   the question to be one with Him in any other way than in the way of
   nature, and character, and life. Unless we are Christ-like in our
   thoughts and our ways, we are not one with Him, no matter how we feel.

   I have seen Christians, with hardly one Christ-like attribute in their
   whole characters, who yet were so emotional and had such ecstatic
   feelings of love for Christ, as to think themselves justified in
   claiming the closest oneness with Him. I scarcely know a sadder sight.
   Surely our Lord meant to reach such cases when He said in Matt. 7:21,
   "Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the
   kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in
   heaven." He was not making here any arbitrary statement of God's will,
   but a simple announcement of the nature of things. Of course it must be
   so. It is like saying, "No man can enter the ranks of astronomers who
   is not an astronomer." Emotions will not make a man an astronomer, but
   life and action. He must be one, not merely feel that he is one.

   There is no escape from this inexorable nature of things, and
   especially here. Unless we are one with Christ as to character and life
   and action, we cannot be one with Him in any other way, for there is no
   other way. We must be "partakers of His nature" or we cannot be
   partakers of His life, for His life and His nature are one.

   But emotional souls do not always recognize this. They feel so near
   Christ and so united to Him, that they think it must be real; and
   overlooking the absolute necessity of Christ-likeness of character and
   walk, they are building their hopes and their confidence on their
   delightful emotions and exalted feelings, and think they must be one
   with Him, or they could not have such rich and holy experiences.

   Now it is a psychological fact that these or similar emotions can be
   produced by other causes than a purely divine influence, and that they
   are largely dependent upon temperament and physical conditions. It is
   most dangerous, therefore, to make them a test of our spiritual union
   with Christ. It may result in just such a grievous self-deception as
   our Lord warns against in Luke 6:46-49, "And why call ye me, Lord,
   Lord, and do not the things which I say?" Our soul delights perhaps in
   calling Him, Lord, Lord, but are we doing the things which He said; for
   this, He tells us, is the important point, after all.

   If, therefore, led by our feelings, we are saying in meetings, or among
   our friends, or even in our own heart before the Lord, that we are
   abiding in Him, let us take home to ourselves in solemn consideration
   these words of the Holy Ghost, "He that saith he abideth in Him, ought
   himself so to walk, even as He walked."

   Unless we are thus walking, we cannot possibly be abiding in Him, no
   matter how much we may feel as if we were.

   If you are really one with Christ you will be sweet to those who are
   cross to you; you will bear everything and make no complaints; when you
   are reviled you will not revile again; you will consent to be trampled
   on, as Christ was, and feel nothing but love in return; you will seek
   the honor of others rather than your own; you will take the lowest
   place, and be the servant of all, as Christ was; you will literally and
   truly love your enemies and do good to them that despitefully use you;
   you will, in short, live a Christ-like life, and manifest outwardly as
   well as feel inwardly a Christ-like spirit, and will walk among men as
   He walked among them. This, dear friends, is what it is to be one with
   Christ. And if all this is not your life according to your measure,
   then you are not one with Him, no matter how ecstatic or exalted your
   feelings may be.

   To be one with Christ is too wonderful and solemn and mighty an
   experience to be reached by any overflow or exaltation of mere feeling.
   He was holy, and those who are one with Him will be holy also. There is
   no escape from this simple and obvious fact.

   When our Lord tried to make us understand His oneness with God, He
   expressed it in such words as these, "I do always the things that
   please Him." "Whatsoever He saith unto me that I do." "The Son can do
   nothing of Himself, but what He seeth the Father do; for what things
   soever He doeth, these also doeth the Son likewise." "I can of mine own
   self do nothing; as I hear I judge, and my judgment is just; because I
   seek not mine own will, but the will of Him that sent me." "If I do not
   the works of my Father, believe me not. But if I do, though ye believe
   not me, believe the works; that ye may know and believe that the Father
   is in me and I in Him."

   The test of oneness then, was the doing of the same works, and it is
   the test of oneness now. And if our Lord could say of Himself that if
   He did not the works of his Father, He did not ask to be believed, no
   matter what professions or claims He might make, surely His disciples
   must do no less.

   It is forever true in the nature of things that "a good tree cannot
   bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good
   fruit." It is not that they will not, but they cannot. And a soul that
   is one with Christ will just as surely bring forth a Christ-like life,
   as a grapevine will bring forth grapes and not thistles.

   Not that I would be understood to object to emotions. On the contrary,
   I believe they are very precious gifts, when they are from God, and are
   to be greatly rejoiced in. But what I do object to is the making them a
   test or proof of spiritual states, either in ourselves or others, and
   depending on them as the foundation of our faith. Let them come or let
   them go, just as God pleases, and make no account of them either way.
   But always see to it that the really vital marks of oneness with
   Christ, the marks of likeness in character, and life, and walk, are
   ours, and all will be well. For "he that saith I know Him, and keepeth
   not His commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in Him. But whoso
   keepeth His word, in him verily is the love of God perfected: hereby
   know we that we are in Him."

   It may be, my dear reader, that the grief of your life has been the
   fact that you have so few good feelings. You try your hardest to get up
   the feelings which you hear others talking about, but they will not
   come. You pray for them fervently, and are often tempted to upbraid God
   because He does not grant them to you. And you are filled with an
   almost unbearable anguish because you think your want of emotion is a
   sign that there is not any interior union of your soul with Christ. You
   judge altogether by your feelings, and think there is no other way to
   judge.

   Now my advice to you is to let your feelings go, and pay no regard to
   them whatever. They really have nothing to do with the matter. They are
   not the indicators of your spiritual state, but are merely the
   indicators of your temperament, or of your present physical condition.
   People in very low states of grace are often the subjects of very
   powerful emotional experiences. We all know this from the scenes we
   have heard of or witnessed at camp-meetings and revivals. I myself had
   a colored servant once who would become unconscious under the power of
   her wonderful experiences, whenever there was a revival meeting at
   their church, who yet had hardly a token of any spiritual life about
   her at other times, and who was, in fact, not even moral. Now surely,
   if the Bible teaches nothing else, it does teach this, that a
   Christ-like life and walk must accompany any experience which is really
   born of His spirit. It could not be otherwise in the very nature of
   things. But I fear some Christians have separated the two things so
   entirely in their conceptions, as to have exalted their experiences at
   the expense of their walk, and have come to care far more about their
   emotions than about their character.

   A certain colored congregation in one of the Southern States was a
   plague to the whole neighborhood by their open disregard of even the
   ordinary rules of morality; stealing, and lying, and cheating, without
   apparently a single prick of conscience on the subject. And yet their
   nightly meetings were times of the greatest emotion and "power."
   Someone finally spoke to the preacher about it, and begged him to
   preach a sermon on morality, which would lead his people to see their
   sins. "Ah, missus," he replied, "I knows dey's bad, but den it always
   brings a coldness like over de meetings when I preaches about dem
   things."

   You are helpless as to your emotions, but character you can have if you
   will. You can be so filled with Christ as to be Christ-like, and if you
   are Christ-like, then you are one with Him in the only vital and
   essential way, even though your feelings may tell you that it is an
   impossibility.

   Having thus settled what oneness with Christ really is, the next point
   for us to consider is how to reach it for ourselves.

   We must first of all find out what are the facts in the case, and what
   is our own relation to these facts.

   If you read such passages as 1 Cor. 3:16, "Know ye not that ye are the
   temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you?" and then
   look at the opening of the chapter to see to whom these wonderful words
   are spoken, even to "babes in Christ," who were "yet carnal," and
   walked according to man, you will see that this soul-union of which I
   speak, this unspeakably glorious mystery of an indwelling God is the
   possession of even the weakest and most failing believer in Christ. So
   that it is not a new thing you are to ask for, but only to realize that
   which you already have. Of every believer in the Lord Jesus it is
   absolutely true, that his "body is the temple of the Holy Ghost, which
   is in him, which he has of God."

   It seems to me just in this way; as though Christ were living in a
   house, shut up in a far-off closet, unknown and unnoticed by the
   dwellers in the house, longing to make Himself known to them and be one
   with them in all their daily lives, and share in all their interests,
   but unwilling to force Himself upon their notice; as nothing but a
   voluntary companionship could meet or satisfy the needs of His love.
   The days pass by over that favored household, and they remain in
   ignorance of their marvellous privilege. They come and go about all
   their daily affairs with no thought of their wonderful Guest. Their
   plans are laid without reference to Him. His wisdom to guide, and His
   strength to protect, are all lost to them. Lonely days and weeks are
   spent in sadness, which might have been full of the sweetness of His
   presence.

   But suddenly the announcement is made, "The Lord is in the house!"

   How will its owner receive the intelligence? Will he call out an eager
   thanksgiving, and throw wide open every door for the entrance of his
   glorious Guest; Or will he shrink and hesitate, afraid of His presence
   and seek to reserve some private corner for a refuge from His
   all-seeing eye?

   Dear friend, I make the glad announcement to thee that the Lord is in
   thy heart. Since the day of thy conversion He has been dwelling there,
   but thou hast lived on in ignorance of it. Every moment during all that
   time might have been passed in the sunshine of His sweet presence, and
   every step have been taken under His advice. But because thou knew it
   not, and hast never looked for Him there, thy life has been lonely and
   full of failure. But now that I make the announcement to thee, how wilt
   thou receive it? Art thou glad to have Him? Wilt thou throw wide open
   every door to welcome Him in? Wilt thou joyfully and thankfully give up
   the government of thy life into His hands? Wilt thou consult Him about
   everything, and let Him decide each step for thee, and mark out every
   path? Wilt thou invite Him to thy innermost chambers, and make Him the
   sharer in thy most hidden life? Wilt thou say, "YES!" to all His
   longing for union with thee, and with a glad and eager abandonment,
   hand thyself and all that concerns thee over into His hands? If thou
   wilt, then shall thy soul begin to know something of the joy of union
   with Christ.

   And yet, after all, this is but a faint picture of the blessed reality.
   For far more glorious than it would be to have Christ a dweller in the
   house or in the heart, is it to be brought into such a real and actual
   union with Him as to be one with Him, one will, one purpose, one
   interest, one life. Human words cannot express such glory as this. And
   yet I want to express it. I want to make your souls so unutterably
   hungry to realize it, that day or night you cannot rest without it. Do
   you understand the words, one with Christ? Do you catch the slightest
   glimpse of their marvellous meaning? Does not your whole soul begin to
   exult over such a wondrous destiny? For it is a reality. It means to
   have no life but His life, to have no will but His will, to have no
   interests but His interests, to share His riches, to enter into His
   joys, to partake of His sorrows, to manifest His life, to have the same
   mind as He had, to think, and feel, and act, and walk as He did. Oh,
   who could have dreamed that such a destiny could have been ours!

   Wilt thou have it, dear soul? Thy Lord will not force it on thee, for
   He wants thee as His companion and His friend, and a forced union would
   be incompatible with this. It must be voluntary on thy part.

   The bride must say a willing "Yes," to her bridegroom, or the joy of
   their union is utterly wanting. Canst thou say a willing "Yes," to thy
   Lord?

   It is such a simple transaction, and yet so real! The steps are but
   three. First, be convinced that the Scriptures teach this glorious
   indwelling of thy God; then surrender thy whole being to Him to be
   possessed by Him; and finally believe that He has taken possession, and
   is dwelling in thee. Begin to reckon thyself dead, and to reckon Christ
   as thy only life. Maintain this attitude of soul unwaveringly. Say, "I
   am crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ
   liveth in me," over and over day and night, until it becomes the
   habitual breathing of thy soul. Put off thy self-life by faith and in
   fact continually, and put on practically the life of Christ. Let this
   act become, by its constant repetition, the attitude of thy whole
   being. And as surely as thou dost this day by day, thou shalt find
   thyself continually bearing about in thy body the dying of the Lord
   Jesus, that the life also of Jesus may be made manifest in thy mortal
   flesh. Thou shalt learn to know what salvation means; and shalt have
   opened out to thy astonished gaze secrets of the Lord, of which thou
   hast hitherto hardly dreamed.


   How have I erred! God is my home

   And God Himself is here.

   Why have I looked so far for Him,

   Who is nowhere but near?


   Yet God is never so far off

   As even to be near;

   He is within, our spirit is

   The home He holds most dear.


   So all the while I thought myself

   Homeless, forlorn, and weary;

   Missing my joy, I walked the earth,

   Myself God's sanctuary.
     __________________________________________________________________

    Chapter 18

  "ALTHOUGH" AND "YET," A LESSON IN THE INTERIOR LIFE

   In many of our store windows at Christmas time there stands a most
   significant picture. It is a dreary, desolate winter scene. There is a
   dark, stormy, wintry sky, bare trees, and brown grass and dead weeds,
   with patches of snow over them. On a leafless tree at one side of the
   picture is an empty and snow-covered nest, and on a branch near sits a
   little bird. All is cold, and dark, and desolate enough to daunt any
   bird, and drive it to some fairer clime, but this bird is sitting there
   in an attitude of perfect contentment, and has its little head bravely
   lifted up towards the sky, while a winter song is evidently about to
   burst forth from its tiny throat.

   This picture, which always stands on my shelf, has preached me many a
   sermon. And the test is always the same, and finds its expression in
   the two words that stand at the head of this article, "Although" and
   "Yet."

   "ALTHOUGH the fig-tree shall not blossom, neither shall fruit be in the
   vines: the labor of the olive shall fail, and the field shall yield no
   meat; the flock shall be cut off from the fold, and there shall be no
   herd in the stall: YET I will rejoice in the Lord, I will joy in the
   God of my salvation."

   There come times in many lives, when, like this bird in the winter, the
   soul finds itself bereft of every comfort both outward and inward; when
   all seems dark, and all seems wrong, even; when everything in which we
   have trusted seems to fail us; when the promises are apparently
   unfulfilled, and our prayers gain no response; when there seems nothing
   left to rest on in earth or Heaven. And it is at such times as these
   that the brave little bird with its message is needed. "Although" all
   is wrong everywhere, "yet" there is still one thing left to rejoice in,
   and that is God; the "God of our salvation," who changes not, but is
   the same good, loving, tender God yesterday, today, and forever. We can
   joy in Him always, whether we have anything else to rejoice in or not.

   By rejoicing in Him, however, I do not mean rejoicing in ourselves,
   although I fear most people think this is really what is meant. It is
   their feelings or their revelations or their experiences that
   constitute the groundwork of their joy, and if none of these are
   satisfactory, they see no possibility of joy at all.

   But the lesson the Lord is trying to teach us all the time is the
   lesson of self-effacement. He commands us to look away from self and
   all self's experiences, to crucify self and count it dead, to cease to
   be interested in self, and to know nothing and be interested in nothing
   but God.

   The reason for this is that God has destined us for a higher life than
   the self-life. That just as He has destined the caterpillar to become
   the butterfly, and therefore has appointed the caterpillar life to die,
   in order that the butterfly life may take its place, so He has
   appointed our self-life to die in order that the divine life may become
   ours instead. The caterpillar effaces itself in its grub form, that it
   may evolve or develop into its butterfly form. It dies that it may
   live. And just so must we.

   Therefore, the one most essential thing in this stage of our existence
   must be the death to self and the resurrection to a life only in God.
   And it is for this reason that the lesson of joy in the Lord, and not
   in self, must be learned. Every advancing soul must come sooner or
   later to the place where it can trust God, the bare God, if I may be
   allowed the expression, simply and only because of what He is in
   Himself, and not because of His promises or His gifts. It must learn to
   have its joy in Him alone, and to rejoice in Him when all else in
   Heaven and earth shall seem to fail.

   The only way in which this place can be reached I believe, is by the
   soul being compelled to face in its own experience the loss of all
   things both inward and outward. I do not mean necessarily that all
   one's friends must die, or all one's money be lost: but I do mean that
   the soul shall find itself, from either inward or outward causes,
   desolate, and bereft, and empty of all consolation. It must come to the
   end of everything that is not God; and must have nothing else left to
   rest on within or without. It must experience just what the prophet
   meant when he wrote that "Although."

   It must wade through the slough, and fall off of the precipice, and be
   swamped by the ocean, and at last find in the midst of them, and at the
   bottom of them, and behind them, the present, living, loving,
   omnipotent God! And then, and not until then, will it understand the
   prophet's exulting shout of triumph, and be able to join it: "YET I
   will rejoice in the Lord; I will joy in the God of my salvation."

   And then, also, and not until then, will it know the full meaning of
   the verse that follows: "The Lord God is my strength, and He will make
   my feet like hind's feet, and He will make me to walk upon mine high
   places."

   The soul often walks on what seem high places, which are, however,
   largely self-evolved and emotional, and have but little of God in them;
   and in moments of loss and failure and darkness, these high places
   become precipices of failure. But the high places to which the Lord
   brings the soul that rejoices only in Him, can be touched by no
   darkness or loss, for their very foundations are laid in the midst of
   an utter loss and death of all that is not God.

   If we want an unwavering experience, therefore, we can find it only in
   the Lord, apart from all else; apart from His gifts, apart from His
   blessings, apart from all that can change or be affected by the
   changing conditions of our earthly life.

   The prayer which is answered today, may seem to be unanswered tomorrow;
   the promises once so gloriously fulfilled, may cease to be a reality to
   us; the spiritual blessing which was at one time such a joy, may be
   utterly lost; and nothing of all we once trusted to and rested on may
   be left us, but the hungry and longing memory of it all. But when all
   else is gone, God is still left. Nothing changes Him. He is the same
   yesterday, today, and forever, and in Him is no variableness, neither
   shadow of turning. And the soul that finds its joy in Him alone, can
   suffer no wavering.

   It is grand to trust in the promises, but it is grander still to trust
   in the Promiser. The promises may be misunderstood or misapplied, and
   at the moment when we are leaning all our weight upon them, they may
   seem utterly to fail us. But no one ever trusted in the Promiser and
   was confounded.

   The God who is behind His promises and is infinitely greater than His
   promises, can never fail us in any emergency, and the soul that is
   stayed on Him cannot know anything but perfect peace.

   The little child does not always understand its mother's promises, but
   it knows its mother, and its childlike trust is founded not on her
   word, but upon herself. And just so it is with those of us who have
   learned the lesson of this "Although" and "Yet." There may not be a
   prayer answered or a promise fulfilled to our own consciousness, but
   what of that? Behind the prayers and behind the promises, there is God,
   and He is enough. And to such a soul the simple words, GOD IS, answer
   every question and solve every doubt.

   To the little trusting child the simple fact of the mother's existence
   is the answer to all its need. The mother may not make one single
   promise, or detail any plan, but she is, and that is enough for the
   child. The child rejoices in the mother; not in her promises, but in
   herself. And to the child, as to us, there is behind all that changes
   and can change, the one unchangeable joy of the mother's existence.
   While the mother lives, the child must be cared for, and the child
   knows this, instinctively if not intelligently, and rejoices in knowing
   it. And while God lives, His children must be cared for as well, and
   His children ought to know this, and rejoice in it as instinctively and
   far more intelligently than the child of human parents. For what else
   can God do, being what He is? Neglect, indifference, forgetfulness,
   ignorance, are all impossible to Him. He knows everything, He cares
   about everything, He can manage everything; and He loves us; and what
   more could we ask? Therefore, come what may, we will lift our faces to
   our God, like our brave little bird teacher, and, in the midst of our
   darkest "Althoughs," will sing our glad and triumphant "Yet."

   All of God's saints in all ages have done this. Job said, out of the
   depths of sorrow and trial which few can equal, "Though He slay me yet
   will I trust in Him."

   David could say in the moment of his keenest anguish, "Yea, though I
   walk through the valley of the shadow of death," yet "I will fear no
   evil; for Thou art with me." And again he could say, "God is our refuge
   and strength, a very present help in trouble. Therefore, will not we
   fear, though the earth be removed, and though the mountains be carried
   into the midst of the sea; though the waters thereof roar and be
   troubled; though the mountains shake with the swelling thereof . . .
   God is in the midst of her; she shall not be moved; God shall help her,
   and that right early."

   Paul could say in the midst of his sorrows, "We are troubled on every
   side, yet not distressed; we are perplexed, but not in despair;
   persecuted, but not forsaken; cast down, but not destroyed . . . for
   which cause we faint not; but though our outward man perish, yet the
   inward man is renewed day by day. For our light affliction, which is
   but for a moment, worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal
   weight of glory; while we look, not at the things which are seen, but
   at the things which are not seen; for the things which are seen are
   temporal; but the things which are not seen are eternal."

   All this and more can the soul say that learned this lesson of
   rejoicing in God alone.

   Spiritual joy is not a thing, not a lump of joy, so to speak, stored
   away in one's heart to be looked at and rejoiced over. Joy is only the
   gladness that comes from the possession of something good, or the
   knowledge of something pleasant. And the Christian's joy is simply his
   gladness in knowing Christ, and in his possession of such a God and
   Saviour. We do not on an earthly plane rejoice in our joy, but in the
   thing that causes our joy. And on the heavenly plane it is the same. We
   are to "rejoice in the Lord, and joy in the God of our salvation"; and
   this joy no man nor devil can take from us, and no earthly sorrows can
   touch.

   A writer on the interior life says, in effect, that our spiritual
   pathway is divided into three regions, very different from one another,
   and yet each one a necessary stage in the onward progress. First, there
   is the region of beginnings, which is a time full of sensible joys and
   delights, of fervent aspirations, of emotional experiences, and of many
   secret manifestations of God. Then comes a vast extent of wilderness,
   full of temptation, and trial, and conflict, of the loss of sensible
   manifestations, of dryness, and of inward and outward darkness and
   distress. And then, finally, if this desert period is faithfully
   traversed, there comes on the further side of it a region of mountain
   heights of uninterrupted union and communion with God, of superhuman
   detachment from everything earthly, of infinite contentment with the
   Divine will, and of marvellous transformation into the image of Christ.

   Whether this order is true or not, I cannot here discuss, but of one
   thing I am very sure, that to many souls who have tasted the joy of the
   "region of beginnings" here set forth, there has come afterwards a
   period of desert experience at which they have been sorely amazed and
   perplexed. And I cannot but think such might, perhaps, in this
   explanation, find the answer to their trouble. They are being taught
   the lesson of detachment from all that is not God, in order that their
   souls may at last be brought into that interior union and oneness with
   Him which is set forth in the picture given of the third and last
   region of mountain heights of blessedness.

   The soul's pathway is always through death to life. The caterpillar
   cannot in the nature of things become the butterfly in any other way
   than by dying to the one life in order to live in the other. And
   neither can we. Therefore, it may well be that this region of death and
   desolation must needs be passed through, if we would reach the calm
   mountain heights beyond. And if we know this, we can walk triumphantly
   through the darkest experience, sure that all is well, since God is
   God.

   In the lives of many who read this paper there is, I feel sure, at
   least one of these desert "Althoughs," and in some lives there are
   many.

   Dear friends, is the "Yet" there also? Have you learned the prophet's
   lesson? Is God enough for you? Can you sing and mean it,


   "Thou, O Christ, art all I want,

   More than all in thee I find"?

   If not, you need the little bird to speak to you.

   And the song that he sings, as he sits on that bare and leafless tree,
   with the winter storm howling around him, must become your song also.


   "Though the rain may fall and the wind be blowing,

   And cold and chill is the wintry blast;

   Though the cloudier sky is still cloudier growing,

   And the dead leaves tell that summer is passed;

   Yet my face I hold to the stormy heaven,

   My heart is as calm as a summer sea;

   Glad to receive what my God hath given,

   Whate'er it be.


   "When I feel the cold, I can say, He sends it,'

   And His wind blows blessing I surely know;

   For I've never a want but that He attends it;

   And my heart beats warm, though the winds may blow

   The soft sweet summer was warm and glowing,

   Bright were the blossoms on every bough;

   I trusted Him when the roses were blowing,

   I trust Him now.


   "Small were my faith should it weakly falter,

   Now that the roses have ceased to blow;

   Frail were the trust that now should alter,

   Doubting His love when the storm-clouds grow.

   If I trust Him once I must trust Him ever,

   And His way is best, though I stand or fall,

   Through wind or storm He will leave me never,

   For He sends all."
     __________________________________________________________________

    Chapter 19

  KINGS AND THEIR KINGDOMS; OR, HOW TO REIGN IN THE INTERIOR LIFE

   "And when he was demanded of the Pharisees when the kingdom of God
   should come, he answered them and said, The kingdom of God cometh not
   with observation: neither shall they say, lo here! or, lo there! for,
   behold, the kingdom of God is within you."

   The expressions "kingdom of God" and "kingdom of Heaven" are used in
   Scripture concerning the divine life in the soul. They mean simply the
   place or condition where God rules, and where His will is done. It is
   an interior kingdom, not an exterior one. Its thrones are not outward
   thrones of human pomp and glory, but inward thrones of dominion and
   supremacy over the things of time and sense. Its kings are not clothed
   in royal robes of purple and fine linen, but with the interior garments
   of purity and truth. And its reign is not in outward show, but in
   inward power. Neither is it in one place rather than another, nor in
   one form of things above another. It is not, lo here, nor lo there, not
   in this mountain nor yet at Jerusalem, that we are to find Christ, and
   enter into His kingdom. It is not a matter of place at all, but one of
   condition. And in every place and under every name, and through every
   form, all who seek God and work righteousness shall find His kingdom
   within them.

   But this is very little understood. In our childish fashion of
   literalism we have too much imbibed the idea that a kingdom must
   necessarily be in a particular place and with outward observation; and
   have therefore expected that the kingdom of heaven would mean for us an
   outward victory of heaven over earth in some particular place, or under
   some especial form; and that to sit on a throne with Christ, would be
   to have an outward uplifting in power and glory before the face of all
   around us.

   But as the inner sense of Scripture unfolds to us, we see that this
   would be but a poor and superficial fulfilling of the real meaning of
   these wonderful symbols. And the vision of their true significance
   grows and strengthens before the "eyes that see," until at last we know
   that our Lord's words were truer than ever we had dreamed before, that
   the "kingdom of God cometh not with observation; neither shall they
   say, lo here! or, lo there! for, behold, the kingdom of God is within
   you."

   In Daniel 2:44, we have the announcement of the kingdom, and in Isaiah
   9:6, 7, the announcement of the King:--

   "The God of heaven shall set up a kingdom which shall never be
   destroyed; and the kingdom shall not be left to other people, but it
   shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it shall
   stand forever."

   "For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given: and the
   government shall be upon His shoulder; and His name shall be called
   Wonderful, Counsellor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the
   Prince of Peace. Of the increase of His government and peace there
   shall be no end, upon the throne of David, and upon His kingdom, to
   order it, and to establish it with judgment and with justice from
   henceforth even forever. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform
   this."

   This kingdom is to break in pieces and consume all other kingdoms by
   right of the law by which the inward always rules the outward. If there
   is peace within, no outward turmoil can affect the soul; but outward
   peace can never quiet an inward tempest. A happy heart can walk in
   triumphant indifference through a sea of external trouble; while
   internal anguish cannot find happiness in the most favorable
   surroundings. What a man is within himself, makes or unmakes his joy,
   and not what he possesses outside of himself.

   Someone said to Diogenes, "The king has degraded you." "Yes" replied
   Diogenes, triumphantly, "but I am not degraded!" No act of kings or
   emperors can degrade a soul that retains its own dignity; no tyrant can
   enslave a man who is inwardly free.

   Therefore to have this divine kingdom set up within, means that all
   other powers to conquer or enslave are broken, and the soul reigns
   triumphant over them all. Men and devils may try to hold such a one in
   bondage, but they are powerless before the might of this interior
   kingdom. No longer will fashion, or conventionality, or the fear of
   man, or the love of ease, or any other of the many tyrants to which
   Christians cringe and bow, rule a soul that has been raised to a throne
   in this inward kingdom. No sin or temptation can overcome, no sorrow
   can crush, no discouragement can hinder. Let a man or woman have been
   bound in ever so tyrannical chains of sinful habits, this kingdom will
   set them free. Circumstances make men kings in the outward life, but in
   this hidden life men become kings over circumstances. And the soul that
   has aforetime been the slave of a thousand outward things, finds itself
   here utterly independent of them, every one.

   For the King in this kingdom is One whom no circumstances can affect or
   baffle. He it is indeed who makes circumstances. And since the
   government is upon His shoulders, we cannot doubt that He will order
   the kingdom with a judgment and justice that will leave nothing for any
   subject in His kingdom to desire.

   In the expression "the government shall be upon His shoulder," we have
   the whole secret of this wonderful kingdom. Upon His shoulder, not upon
   ours. The care is His, the burdens are His, the responsibility belongs
   to Him, the protection rests upon Him, the planning, and providing, and
   controlling, and guiding, all are in His hands. No one can question as
   to His perfect fulfilment of every requirement of His kingship.
   Therefore those who are in His kingdom, are utterly delivered from any
   need to be anxious, or burdened, or perplexed, or troubled. And by this
   deliverance they become kings. The government is not upon their
   shoulders, and they have no business to interfere with it. Their King
   has assumed the whole responsibility, and if He can but see His
   subjects happy and prosperous, He is content Himself to bear all the
   weight and care of kingship. How often we speak of the responsibilities
   of earthly kings, and pity them for the burdens that kingship imposes.
   We recognize, even on an earthly plane, that to be a king means, or
   ought to mean, the bearing of the burdens of even the meanest of his
   subject. And even now, as I write, many hearts are aching with sympathy
   for the new Czar, who has assumed the grievous burden of the mighty
   Russian Empire.

   From this instinctive sense of every human heart as to the rightful
   duties and responsibilities of kingship, we may learn what it means to
   be in a kingdom over which God is King, and where He has himself
   declared all things shall be ordered with judgment and justice from
   henceforth and even forever. Surely no care or anxiety can ever enter
   here, if the heart but knows its kingdom and its King!

   In John 18:36, our King tells us the tactics of His kingdom: "Jesus
   answered, My kingdom is not of this world: if my kingdom were of this
   world then would my servants fight, that I should not be delivered to
   the Jews; but now is my kingdom not from hence."

   Earthly kings and earthly kingdoms gain and keep their supremacy by
   outward conflict; God's kingdom conquers by inward power. Earthly kings
   subdue enemies; God subdues enmity. His victories must be interior
   before they can be exterior. He does not subjugate, but he conquers.
   Even we, on our earthly plane, know something of this principle, and do
   not value any victory over another which only reaches the body and has
   not subdued the heart. No true mother cares for an outward obedience
   merely; nothing will satisfy her but the inward surrender. Unless the
   citadel of the heart is conquered, the conquest seem worthless. And
   with God how much more will this be the case, since we are told that
   "He seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh on the outward appearance,
   but the Lord looketh on the heart." We speak of "subduing hearts," and
   we mean, not that they are overpowered or forced into an unwilling and
   compulsory surrender, but that they are conquered by being won, and are
   willingly yielded up to another's control. And it is after this fashion
   and no other that God subdues. So that to read that "His kingdom ruleth
   over all," means that all hearts are won to His service in a glad and
   willing surrender.

   For again I repeat, His reign must be inward before it can be outward.
   And in truth it is no reign at all, unless it is within. If we think of
   it a moment we shall see that this must be so in the very nature of
   things, and that it is impossible to conceive of God reigning in a
   kingdom where the subduing reaches no further than the outside actions
   of His subjects. His kingdom is not of this world, but is in a
   spiritual sphere, where its power is over the souls and not the bodies
   of men; and therefore only when the soul is conquered, can it be set
   up.

   Understood in this light, how full of love and blessing do all those
   declarations and prophecies become, which tell us that God is to subdue
   His enemies under His feet, and is to rule them in righteousness and
   power! And how glorious with hope does the voice of that great
   multitude heard by John sound out, saying, "Alleluia! for the Lord God
   omnipotent reigneth!"

   In confirmation of all this we have two passages descriptive of this
   kingdom, in Rom. 14:17, and 1 Cor. 4:20: "For the kingdom of God is not
   meat and drink, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Ghost."
   "For the kingdom of God is not in word, but in power."

   Not outward things, but inward. Not what a man eats and drinks, not
   where he lives, nor what is his nationality, nor the customs of his
   race, not even what he thinks nor what he says; but what are the inward
   characteristics of his nature, and the inward power of his spiritual
   life. For these alone constitute this kingdom of God. Not what I do,
   but what I am, is to decide whether I belong to it or not. And only as
   inward righteousness, and inward peace, and inward joy, and inward
   power are bestowed and experienced, can this kingdom be set up.
   Therefore no outward subjugation can accomplish results like these, but
   only the interior work of the all-subduing spirit of God.

   I have been greatly instructed by the story of Ulysses, when he was
   sailing past the islands of the sirens. These sirens had the power of
   charming by their songs all who listened to them, and of inducing them
   to leap into the sea. To avert this danger, Ulysses filled the ears of
   his crew with wax, that they might not hear the fatal music, and bound
   himself to the mast with knotted cords; and thus they passed the isle
   in safety. But when Orpheus was obliged to sail by the same island, he
   gained a better victory, for he himself made sweeter music than that of
   the sirens, and enchanted his crew with more alluring songs; so that
   they passed the dangerous charmers not only with safety, but with
   disdain. Wax and knotted cords kept Ulysses and his crew from making
   the fatal leap; but inward delights enabled Orpheus and his crew to
   reign triumphant over the very source of temptation itself. And just so
   is it with the kingdom of which we speak. It needs no outward law to
   bind it, but reigns by right of its inward life. So that it is said of
   those who have entered it, "Against such there is no law."

   For it is a kingdom of kings. The song we shall one day sing, nay, that
   we ought to be singing even now and here in this life, declare this:
   "Unto Him that loved us, and washed us from our sins in His own blood,
   and hath made us kings and priests unto God and His Father; to Him be
   glory and dominion for ever and ever. Amen." (Rev. 1:5, 6.)

   We who have entered this kingdom, or, rather, in whom this kingdom is
   set up, sit upon the throne with our King and share His dominion. The
   world was His footstool, and it becomes our footstool also. Over the
   things of time and sense He reigned triumphant by the power of a life
   lived in a plane above them and superior to them, and so may we. We are
   all of us familiar with the expression that such or such a person
   "rises superior to his surroundings," and we mean that there is in that
   soul a hidden power that controls its surroundings, instead of being
   controlled by them. Our King essentially rose superior to His
   surroundings; and it is given to us who are reigning with Him to do the
   same.

   But, just as He was not a king in outward appearance, but only in
   inward power, so shall we be. He reigned, not in this, that He had all
   the treasures and riches of the world at His command, but that He had
   none of them, and could do without them. And so shall our reigning be.
   We shall not have all men bowing down to us, and all things bending to
   our will; but with all men opposing and all things adverse, we shall
   walk in a royal triumph of soul through the midst of them. We shall
   suffer the loss of all things, and by that loss be set forever free
   from their power to bind. We shall hide ourselves in the impregnable
   fortress of the will of our King, and shall reign there in a perpetual
   kingdom.

   All this is contrary to man's thought of kingship. The only idea the
   human heart can compass, is, that outward circumstances must bend and
   bow to the soul that is seated on a throne with Christ. Friends must
   approve, enemies must be silenced, obstacles must be overcome, affairs
   must prosper, or there can be no reigning. If man had had the ordering
   of Daniel's business, or of that matter of the three Hebrew children in
   the burning fiery furnace, he would have said the only way of victory
   would be for the minds of the kings to have been so changed that Daniel
   should not have been cast into the den of lions, and the Hebrew
   children should have been kept out of the furnace. But God's way was
   infinitely grander. He suffered Daniel to be cast among the lions, in
   order that he might reign triumphant over them when in their very
   midst, and He allowed Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego to be cast into
   the burning, fiery furnace, in order that they might walk through it
   without so much as the smell of fire upon them. He tells us, not that
   we shall walk in paths where there are no dragons and adders, but that
   we shall walk through the midst of dragons and adders, and shall "tread
   them under our feet."

   And how much more glorious a kingdom is this than any outward rule or
   control could be! To be inwardly a king, while outwardly a slave, is
   one of the grandest heights of triumph of which our hearts can
   conceive. To be destitute, afflicted, tormented, to be stoned and torn
   asunder, and slain with the sword; to wander in sheepskins and
   goatskins, and in deserts and mountains, and in dens and caves of the
   earth, and yet to be through it all, kings in interior kingdoms of
   righteousness, peace and joy in the Holy Ghost, is surely a kingdom
   that none but God could give, and none but God-like souls receive.

   A few such kings we have at some time or other seen or heard of in this
   world of ours, and all hearts have acknowledged their unconscious sway.
   One I read of among the brethren of the monastery of St. Cyr. Because
   of their piety, these brethren incurred the hatred of the monasteries
   around them, and the anger of their superiors, and were cast out as
   evil from their community. One of them was sent as prisoner to a
   monastery where his chief enemies dwelt, and was there subjected to the
   most cruel and degrading treatment. Although he was of gentle birth,
   and had been an abbot in the community he had left, he was compelled to
   do the most menial work, was forced to carry a noisome burden on his
   back, and was driven out to beg with a placard on his bosom declaring
   him to be the vilest of the vile. But through it all the spirit of the
   saint reigned triumphant, and nothing disturbed his calm, or soured for
   a moment his Christ-like sweetness. For his persecutors he never had
   anything but words of kindness and smiles of love. And at last by the
   mighty power of the divine kingdom in which he lived, he subdued all
   hearts around him to himself, and became the trusted friend and
   adviser, and the beloved ruler over the very enemies who had once so
   delighted to persecute and revile him. "Blessed are the meek, for they
   shall inherit the earth." By his meekness he conquered and became king.

   At one time a dangerous criminal was sent to the monastery for
   imprisonment. He was so violent that no bonds sufficed to bind him, and
   no strength could control him. At last he was taken to the cell of this
   brother from St. Cyr, and they were shut up together; even the stolid
   monks themselves recognizing in that divine meekness a power to conquer
   that surpassed all the powers with which they were acquainted. The
   saint received the violent man as a beloved brother, and smiled upon
   him with heavenly kindness. But the criminal returned it with abuse and
   violence. He broke the monk's furniture and destroyed his bed, he
   kicked him, and beat him, and tore his hair, and spat upon him. He
   exhausted himself in his violence against him. Through it all the monk
   made no resistance, and said no word but words of love; and when at
   length the criminal, worn out with his fury, paused to take breath, the
   beaten and outraged man looked upon his persecutor with a smile of
   ineffable love and tender compassion, as though he would gather him to
   his bosom and comfort him for his misery. It was more than the criminal
   could bear. Hatred, and revenge, and anger he could repay in kind, but
   against love and meekness like this he had no weapons, and his heart
   was conquered. He fell at the feet of the saint and washed them with
   his tears, as he entreated forgiveness for his cruelty, and vowed a
   lifelong loyalty to his service. And from that moment all trouble with
   that criminal was over. He followed the saint about like a loving and
   faithful dog, eager to do or to be anything the other might desire. And
   when the time of his imprisonment was over, and the gates of his prison
   were opened for his release, he could not be induced to go, because he
   could not bear to leave the man who had saved him by love.

   Of such a nature is kingship in this kingdom of heaven.

   Each soul can make the application for itself, without need of comment
   from me.

   In Matt. 5, 6, and 7, we have the King of this kingdom describing the
   characteristics of His kingdom and giving the laws for His subjects.
   "Blessed are the poor in spirit," He says, "for theirs is the kingdom
   of heaven." Not the rich, or great, or wise, or learned, but the poor
   in spirit, the meek, the merciful, the pure in heart, those who mourn,
   and those who hunger and thirst, those who are persecuted, and reviled,
   and spoken evil against, all such belong to this kingdom. Gentleness,
   yieldingness, meekness, charity, are the characteristics of these
   kings, and they reign in the power of them.

   One Christian asked another, "How can I make people respect me?" "I
   would command their respect," was the reply. And this meant, not that
   he should stand up and say in tones of authority, "Now I command you
   all to respect me," but that he should so act, and live, and be, that
   no one could help respecting him. Men sometimes win an outward show of
   respect and submission by an over-bearing tyranny, but he who would
   rule the heart of his subjects must try other methods.

   Our Lord developed this thought to some who wished to share His throne.
   He called them to Him, and said, "Ye know that they which are accounted
   to rule over the Gentiles exercise lordship over them; and their great
   ones exercise authority upon them. But so shall it not be among you:
   but whosoever will be great among you, shall be your minister: and
   whosoever of you will be the chiefest shall be servant of all. For even
   the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to
   give his life a ransom for many."

   From the human standpoint, that man alone reigns who is able to
   exercise lordship over those around him. From the divine standpoint the
   soul that serves is the soul that reigns. Not he who demands most,
   receives this inward crowning, but he who gives up most.

   What grander kingship can be conceived of than that which Christ sets
   forth in the sermon on the mount, "But I say unto you, that ye resist
   not evil; but whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to
   him the other also. And if any man will sue thee at the law and take
   away thy coat, let him have thy cloak also. And whosoever shall compel
   thee to go a mile, go with him twain."

   Surely only a soul that is in harmony with God can mount such a throne
   of dominion as this!

   But this is our destiny. We are made for this purpose. We are born of a
   kingly race, and are heirs to this ineffable kingdom; "heirs of God and
   joint heirs with Christ."

   Would that we could realize this; and could see in every act of service
   or surrender to which we might find ourselves called, an upward step in
   the pathway that leads us to our kingdom and our throne!

   I mean this in a very practical sense. I mean that the homely services
   of our daily lives, and the little sacrifices which each day demands,
   will be, if faithfully fulfilled, actual rounds in the ladder by which
   we are mounting to our thrones. I mean that if we are faithful over the
   "few things" of our earthly kingdom, we shall be made ruler over the
   "many things" of the heavenly kingdom.

   He that follows Christ in this ministry of service and of suffering,
   will reign with Him in the glory of supreme self-sacrifice, and will be
   the "chiefest" in His divine kingdom of love. Knowing this, who would
   hesitate to "turn the other cheek," since by the turning a kingdom is
   to be won and a throne is to be gained?

   Joseph was a type of all this. In slavery and in prison he reigned a
   king, as truly as when seated on Pharaoh's throne or riding in
   Pharaoh's chariot. (See Gen. 39:6, 22, 23.) He became the greatest by
   being the least, the chiefest by being servant of all.

   Dear reader, art thou reigning after this fashion, and in this sort of
   a kingdom? Art thou the greatest in thy little world of home, or
   church, or social circle by being the least, and chiefest by being the
   servant of all? If not, thy kingdom is not Christ's kingdom, and thy
   throne is not one shared by Him.

   To enter into the secrets of this interior kingdom and to partake of
   its heavenly power, is no notional victory, no fancied supremacy. It is
   a real and actual reigning, which will cause thee as a matter of fact
   to "rise superior" to the world and the things of it, and to walk
   through it independent of its smiles or frowns, dwelling in a region of
   heavenly peace and heavenly triumph which earth can neither give nor
   take away. "For the kingdom of God is not in word but in power." It is
   not a talk but a fact; and those who are in it recognize their kingship
   and prove it by reigning.

   But perhaps thou wilt say, "How can I enter into this kingdom, if I am
   not already in?" Let our Lord himself answer thee: "At the same time
   came the disciples unto Jesus, saying, Who is the greatest in the
   kingdom of heaven? And Jesus called a little child unto him, and set
   him in the midst of them, and said, Verily I say unto you, Except ye be
   converted, and become as little children, ye shall not enter into the
   kingdom of heaven. Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this
   little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven."

   It is a kingdom of childlike hearts, and only such can enter it.

   To be a "little child" means simply to be one. I cannot describe it
   better than this. We all have known little children in our lives, and
   have delighted ourselves in their simplicity and their trustfulness,
   their light-hearted carelessness, and their unquestioning obedience to
   those in authority over them. And to be the greatest in this divine
   kingdom means to have the most of this guileless, tender, trustful,
   self-forgetting, obedient heart of the child.

   "Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the
   kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in
   heaven."

   It is not saying, but doing, that will avail us here. We must be a
   child, or we cannot sit on the child's throne. And to be a child means
   to do the Father's will, since the very essence of true childhood is
   the spirit of obedience united to the spirit of trust.

   Become a little child, then, by laying aside all thy greatness, all thy
   self-assertion, all thy self-dependence, all thy wisdom, and all thy
   strength, and consenting to die to thy own self-life, be born again
   into the kingdom of God. The only way out of one life into another is
   by a death to one and a new birth into the other. It is the old story,
   therefore, reiterated so often and in so many different ways, of
   through death to life. Die, then, that you my live. Lose your own life
   that you may find Christ's life. The caterpillar can only enter into
   the butterfly's kingdom by dying to its caterpillar life, and emerging
   into the resurrection life of the butterfly; and just so can we also
   only enter into the kingdom of God by the way of a death out of the
   kingdom of self, and an emergence into the resurrection life of Christ.
   Let everything go, then, that belongs to the natural; all your own
   notions, and plans, and ways, and thoughts; and accept in their stead
   God's plans, and ways, and thoughts. Do this faithfully and do it
   persistently, and you shall come at last to sit on His throne, and to
   reign with Him in an interior kingdom which shall break in pieces and
   consume all other kingdoms, and shall stand for ever and ever.

   There is no other way. This kingdom cannot be entered by pomp, and
   show, and greatness, and strength; but by littleness, and helplessness,
   and childlikeness, and babyhood, and death. He that humbleth himself,
   and he only, shall be exalted here; and to mount the throne with Christ
   requires that we shall first have followed Him in the suffering, and
   loss, and crucifixion. If we suffer with him, we shall also reign with
   Him. Not as an arbitrary reward for our suffering, but as the result
   that will follow in the very nature of things. Christ's loss must
   necessarily bring Christ's gain, Christ's death must bring Christ's
   resurrection, and to follow Him in the regeneration, will surely and
   inevitably bring the soul that follows to His crown and His throne.

   In a volume of sermons for children I have found a vivid illustration
   of this royal kingdom:--

   "A little fellow from one of the Refuges in England had risked his life
   to save one of his comrades, and England's Queen had sent him a medal
   by the hand of one of England's earls. The little fellow was held
   forward by his comrades to receive it, for he was shy and nervous and
   tried to sidle away.

   "Look at the noble chairman; he had driven down from his proper place
   in the House of Lords, where were gathered earls and dukes, and the men
   who had done well as lawyers, and judges, and statesmen, and warriors,
   and the Princes of the royal blood. Yet, all peer though he was, he was
   moved to the sincerest depths of his being as he murmured, `I have the
   honor,' and pinned the life-saving medal on the child's jacket. His
   heart was full. He paused to swallow down something that would rise in
   his throat before he could go on.

   "There is the `glory and honor' of successful statesmen, and warriors,
   and lawyers, but the glory of self-forgetful saving of life is a glory
   that excelleth, and that was the wondrous glory won by this boy. He had
   plunged into the stream and shared a drowning boy's risk, and that
   little hand, look at it there, steadying him by holding the table, had
   come out holding the saved.

   "Why has self-forgetfulness such mighty power? How was it that a
   twelve-year-old boy could bow down an audience of grown men before him?
   What gave to that brow, that its stubby crown of carroty hair, a glory
   and honor more than the lustre of gold and jewels? Why was it that that
   small body in its little breeches and jacket, wiping its tears on the
   rough little sleeve, could grip thousands of hearts and hold them all,
   and make them for the time loyal members of his kingdom?

   "Why was all this so?

   "It was so because that little boy in his measure had been like Christ,
   in the self-forgetful spirit of sacrifice for others. He had a bit of
   the same beauty we are all made on purpose to worship; the glory before
   which angels give a great shout, and all the company of heaven fall
   down and adore, saying with a loud voice, `Worthy is the Lamb that was
   slain!'"

   The "Lamb that was slain" is the mightiest King the world has ever
   known, and all who partake of His spirit share in His kingdom.

   And since this kingdom is not a place, but is character, those who have
   not the character cannot by any possibility be in it.

   We pray daily, "Thy kingdom come." Do we know what we are praying for?
   Do we comprehend the change it will make in us if it comes in us? Are
   we willing to be so changed?

   What is the kingdom of God but the rule of God? And what is the rule of
   God but the will of God? Therefore when we pray, "Thy will be done on
   earth as it is in heaven," we have touched the secret of it all.

   A horde of savages might conquer a civilized kingdom by sheer brute
   force; but if they would conquer the civilization of that kingdom, they
   could only do so by submitting to its control. And just so is it with
   the kingdom of heaven. It yields its sceptre to none but those who
   render obedience to its laws.

   "To him that overcometh will I give to sit with me in my throne, even
   as I also overcame and am set down with my Father in his throne."

   "He always reigns who sides with God," says an old writer. And again,
   "He who perfectly accepts the will of God, dwells in a perpetual
   kingdom."

   Art thou reigning after this fashion and in this sort of a kingdom?

   Art thou the "chiefest" by being the "servant of all"?

   Art thou a king over thy circumstances, or do thy circumstances reign
   over thee?

   Dost thou triumph over thy temptations, or do they triumph over thee?

   Canst thou sit on an inward throne in the midst of outward defeat and
   loss?

   Canst thou conquer by yielding, and become the greatest by being the
   least?

   If thou canst answer Yes to all these questions, then thou art come
   into thy kingdom; and whatever thy outward lot may be, or the
   estimation in which men may hold thee, thou art in very truth among the
   number of those concerning whom our Lord declares "the same shall be
   called greatest in the kingdom of heaven."
     __________________________________________________________________

    Chapter 20

  THE CHARIOTS OF GOD

   FOUNDATION TEXT.--Psalm 68:17.

   Chariots are for conveyance and progress. Earthly chariots carry the
   bodies of those who ride in them over all intervening distances or
   obstacles to the place of their destination, and God's chariots carry
   their souls. No words can express the glorious places to which that
   soul shall arrive who travels in the chariots of God. And our verse
   tells us they are "very many." All around us on every side they wait
   for us; but we, alas! we do not always see them. Earth's chariots are
   always visible, but God's chariots are invisible.

   2 Kings 6:14-17.

   The king of Syria came up against the man of God with horses and
   chariots that were visible to every one, but God had chariots that
   could be seen by none save the eye of faith. The servant of the prophet
   could only see the outward and visible, and he cried, as so many have
   done since, "Alas, my Master! how shall we do?" But the prophet himself
   sat calmly within his house without fear, because his eyes were opened
   to see the invisible. And all that he asked for his servant was, "Lord,
   I pray thee open his eyes that he may see."

   This is the prayer we need to pray for ourselves and for one another,
   "Lord, open our eyes that we may see." For the world all around us is
   full of God's horses and chariots, waiting to carry us to places of
   glorious victory.

   But they do not look like chariots. They look instead like enemies,
   sufferings, trials, defeats, misunderstandings, disappointments,
   unkindnesses. They look like Juggernaut cars of misery and
   wretchedness, that are only waiting to roll over us and crush us into
   the earth; but they really are chariots of triumph in which we may ride
   to those very heights of victory for which our souls have been longing
   and praying.

   Deut. 32:12, 13.

   If we would "ride on the high places of the earth" we must get into the
   chariots that can take us there; and only the "chariots of God" are
   equal to such lofty riding as this.

   Isa. 58:14.

   We may make out of each event in our lives either a Juggernaut car to
   crush us, or a chariot in which to ride to heights of victory. It all
   depends upon how we take them; whether we lie down under our trials and
   let them roll over and crush us, or whether we climb up into them as
   into a chariot, and make them carry us triumphantly onward and upward.

   2 Kings 2:11, 12.

   Whenever we mount into God's chariots the same thing happens to us
   spiritually that happened to Elisha. We shall have a translation. Not
   into the heavens above us, as Elisha did, but into the heaven within
   us, which after all is almost a grander translation than his. We shall
   be carried up away from the low earthly groveling plane of life, where
   everything hurts and everything is unhappy, up into the "heavenly
   places in Christ Jesus," where we shall ride in triumph over all below.

   Eph. 2:6.

   These "heavenly places" are interior, not exterior, and the road that
   leads to them is interior also. But the chariot that carries the soul
   over this road is generally some outward loss, or trial or
   disappointment; some chastening that does not indeed seem for the
   present to be joyous, but grievous; but that nevertheless afterward
   yieldeth the peaceable fruits of righteousness to them that are
   exercised thereby.

   Heb. 12:5-11.

   Look upon these chastenings, no matter how grievous they may be for the
   present, as God's chariots sent to carry your souls into the "high
   places" of spiritual achievement and uplifting, and you will find that
   they are after all "paved with love."

   Canticles 3:9, 10.

   Your own individual chariot may look very unlovely. It maybe a
   cross-grained relative or friend; it may be the result of human malice,
   or cruelty, or neglect; but every chariot sent by God must necessarily
   be paved with love, since God is love, and God's love is the sweetest,
   softest, tenderest thing to rest one's self upon that was ever found by
   any soul anywhere. It is His love indeed that sends the chariot.

   Hab. 3:8, 12, 13.

   Here the prophet tells us that it was God's displeasure against the
   obstacles which beset the path of His people that made Him come to
   their rescue, riding in His "chariots of salvation." Everything becomes
   a "chariot of salvation" when God rides upon it.

   The "clouds" that darken our skies and seem to shut out the shining of
   the sun of righteousness are, after all, if we only knew it, His
   chariots, into which we may mount with Him, and "ride prosperously"
   over all the darkness.

   Ps. 45:3, 4; Ps. 18:10; Deut. 33:26.

   A late writer has said that we cannot, by even the most vigorous and
   toilsome efforts, sweep away the clouds, but we can climb so high above
   them as to reach the clear atmosphere overhead; and he who rides with
   God rides upon the heavens far above all earth-born clouds.

   Ps. 68:32-34.

   This may sound fanciful, but it is really exceedingly practical when we
   begin to act it out in our daily lives.

   I knew a lady who had a very slow servant. She was an excellent girl in
   every other respect, and very valuable in the household, but her
   slowness was a constant source of irritation to her mistress, who was
   naturally quick, and who always chafed at slowness. The lady would
   consequently get out of temper with the girl twenty times a day, and
   twenty times a day would repent of her anger, and resolve to conquer
   it, but in vain. Her life was made miserable by the conflict. One day
   it occurred to her that she had for a long while been praying for
   patience, and that perhaps this slow servant was the very chariot the
   Lord had sent to carry her soul over into patience. She immediately
   accepted it as such, and from that time used the slowness of her
   servant as a chariot for her soul. And the result was a victory of
   patience that no slowness of anybody was ever after able to disturb.

   Another instance: I knew a sister at one of our conventions who was put
   to sleep in a room with two others on account of the crowd. She wanted
   to sleep, but they wanted to talk, and the first night she was greatly
   disturbed, and lay there fretting and fuming long after the others had
   hushed and she might have slept. But the next day she heard something
   about God's chariots, and that night she accepted these talking sisters
   as her chariots to carry her over into sweetness and patience, and she
   lay there feeling peaceful and at rest. When, however, it grew very
   late, and she knew they all ought to be sleeping, she ventured to say
   slyly, "Sisters, I am lying here riding in a chariot," and the effect
   was instantaneous in producing perfect quiet. Her chariot had carried
   her over to victory, not only inwardly, but at last outwardly as well.

   If we would ride in God's chariots, instead of in our own, we should
   find this to be the case continually.

   Isa. 31:1-3; Ps. 20:7, 8.

   Our constant temptation is to trust in the "chariots of Egypt." We can
   see them; they are tangible and real, and they look so substantial;
   while God's chariots are invisible and intangible, and it is hard to
   believe they are there. Our eyes are not opened to see them.

   2 Kings 19:23.

   We try to reach the high places with the "multitude of our chariots."
   We depend first on one thing, and then on another, to advance our
   spiritual condition and to gain our spiritual victories. We "go down to
   Egypt for help." And God is obliged often to destroy all our own
   chariots before he can bring us to the point of mounting into His.

   Micah 5:10; Hag. 2:22.

   We lean too much upon a dear friend to help us onward in the spiritual
   life, and the Lord is obliged to separate us from that friend. We feel
   that all our spiritual prosperity depends on our continuance under the
   ministry of a favorite preacher, and we are mysteriously removed. We
   look upon our prayer-meeting or our Bible-class as the chief source of
   our spiritual strength, and we are shut up from attending it. And the
   "chariot of God," which alone can carry us to the places where we hoped
   to be taken by the instrumentalities upon which we have been depending,
   is to be found in the very deprivations we have so mourned over. God
   must burn up with the fire of His love every chariot of our own that
   stands in the way of our mounting into His.

   Isa. 66:15, 16.

   Let us be thankful, then, for every trial that will help to destroy our
   chariots, and will compel us to take refuge in the chariot of God,
   which stands ready and waiting beside us.

   Ps. 62:5-8.

   We have to be brought to the place where all other refuges fail us,
   before we can say, "He only." We say, "He and--something else." "He,
   and my experience," or "He, and my church relationships," or "He, and
   my Christian work"; and all that comes after the "and" must be taken
   away from us, or must be proved useless before we can come to the "He
   only." As long as visible chariots are at hand, the soul will not mount
   into the invisible ones.

   Ps. 68:4.

   If we want to ride with God "upon the heavens," we have to be brought
   to an end of all riding upon the earth.

   Ps. 68:24.

   To see God's "goings," we must get into the "sanctuary" of his
   presence; and to share in His "goings" and "go" with Him, we must
   abandon all earthly "goings."

   Prov. 20:24; Ps. 17:5; Ps. 40:1, 2.

   When we mount into God's chariot our goings are "established," for no
   obstacles can hinder its triumphal course. All losses therefore are
   gains that bring us to this.

   Phil. 3:7-9.

   Paul understood this, and he gloried in the losses which brought him
   such unspeakable gain.

   2 Cor. 12:7-10.

   Even the "thorn in the flesh," the messenger of Satan sent to buffet
   him, became only a chariot to his willing soul, that carried him to
   heights of triumph which he could have reached in no other way. To
   "take pleasure" in one's trials, what is this but turning them into the
   grandest of chariots?

   Joseph had a revelation of his future triumphs and reigning, but the
   chariots that carried him there looked to the eye of sense like the
   bitterest failures and defeats. It was a strange road to a kingdom,
   through slavery and a prison, and yet by no other road could Joseph
   have reached his triumph. His dream, Gen. 37:5-10; His chariots, Gen.
   37:19, 20, 27, 28; 39:19, 20; How he rode in his chariots, Gen. 39:1-6,
   21-23; His triumph, Gen. 43:38-43.

   And now a word as to how one is to mount into these chariots.

   My answer would be simply this: Find out where God is in each one of
   them, and hide yourself in Him. Or, in other words, do what the little
   child does when trouble comest, who finds its mother and hides in her
   arms. The real chariot after all that takes us through triumphantly is
   the carrying of God.

   Isa. 46:4.

   The baby carried in the chariot of its mother's arms rides triumphantly
   through the hardest places, and does not even know they are hard.

   Isa. 63:9.

   And how much more we, who are carried in the chariot of the "arms of
   God"!

   Get into your chariot, then. Take each thing that is wrong in your
   lives as God's chariot for you. No matter who the builder of the wrong
   may be, whether men or devils, by the time it reaches your side it is
   God's chariot for you, and is meant to carry you to a heavenly place of
   triumph. Shut out all the second causes, and find the Lord in it. Say,
   "Lord, open my eyes that I may see, not the visible enemy, but thy
   unseen chariots of deliverance."

   Accept His will in the trial, whatever it may be, and hide yourself in
   His arms of love. Say, "Thy will be done; Thy will be done!" over and
   over. Shut out every other thought but the one thought of submission to
   His will and of trust in His love. Make your trial thus your chariot,
   and you will find your soul "riding upon the heavens" with God in a way
   you never dreamed could be.

   I have not a shadow of doubt that if all our eyes were opened today we
   would see our homes, and our places of business, and the streets we
   traverse, filled with the "chariots of God." There is no need for any
   one of us to walk for lack of chariots. That cross inmate of your
   household, who has hitherto made life a burden to you, and who has been
   the Juggernaut car to crush your soul into the dust, may henceforth be
   a glorious chariot to carry you to the heights of heavenly patience and
   longsuffering. That misunderstanding, that mortification, that
   unkindness, that disappointment, that loss, that defeat, all these are
   chariots waiting to carry you to the very heights of victory you have
   so longed to reach.

   Mount into them, then, with thankful hearts, and lose sight of all
   second causes in the shining of His love who will "carry you in His
   arms" safely and triumphantly over it all.
     __________________________________________________________________

    Chapter 21

  "WITHOUT ME YE CAN DO NOTHING"

   CONCERNING THE LIFE OF DIVINE UNION IN ITS PRACTICAL ASPECTS.

   Not long ago I was driving with a Quaker preacher through our beautiful
   Philadelphia Park, when our conversation turned on the apparent
   fruitlessness of a great deal of the preaching in the church at the
   present time. We had spoken, of course, of the foundation cause in the
   absence of the power of the Holy Ghost, but we still felt that this
   could not account for it all, as we both of us knew many preachers
   really baptized with the Spirit, who yet seemed to have no fruit to
   their ministry. And then I suggested that one reason might be in the
   fact that so many ministers, when preaching or talking on religious
   subjects, put on a different tone and manner from the one they
   ordinarily use, and by this very manner remove religion so far from the
   range of ordinary life, as to fail of gaining any real hold on the
   hearts of the men and women whose whole lives are lived on the plane of
   ordinary and homely pleasures and duties. "Now, for instance," I said,
   "if in thy preaching from the Friends' gallery thee could use the same
   tone and manner as thy present one, how much more effectual and
   convincing thy preaching would be." "Oh, but I could not do that," was
   the reply, "because the preacher's gallery is so much more solemn a
   place than this."

   "But why is it more solemn?" I asked. "Is it not the presence of God
   only that makes the gallery or the pulpit solemn, and have we not the
   presence of God equally here? Is it not just as solemn to live in our
   everyday life as it is to preach, and ought we not to do the one to His
   glory just as much as the other?" And then I added, as the subject
   seemed to open out before me, "I verily believe a large part of the
   difficulty lies in the unscriptural and unnatural divorce that has been
   brought about between our so-called religious life and our so-called
   temporal life; as if our religion were something apart from ourselves,
   a sort of outside garment that was to be put on and off according to
   our circumstances and purposes. On Sundays, for instance, and in
   church, our purpose is to seek God, and worship and serve Him, and
   therefore on Sundays we bring out our religious life and put it on in a
   suitably solemn manner, and live it with a strained gravity and decorum
   which deprives it of half its power. But on Mondays our purpose is to
   seek our own interests and serve them, and so we bring out our temporal
   life and put it on with a sense of relief, as from an unnatural
   bondage, and live it with ease and naturalness, and consequently with
   far more power."

   The thoughts thus started remained with me and gathered strength. Not
   long afterward I was present at a meeting where the leader opened with
   reading John 15, and the words, "Without me ye can do nothing," struck
   me with amazement. Hundreds of times before I had read those words, and
   had thought that I understood them thoroughly. But now it seemed almost
   as though they must have been newly inserted in the Bible, so ablaze
   were they with wondrous meaning.

   "There it is," I said to myself, "Jesus himself said so, that apart
   from Him we have no real life of any kind, whether we call it temporal
   or spiritual, and that, therefore, all living or doing that is without
   Him is of such a nature that God, who sees into the realities of
   things, calls it `nothing.'" And then the question forced itself upon
   me as to whether any soul really believed this statement to be true;
   or, if believing it theoretically, whether any one made it practical in
   their daily walk and life. And I saw, as in a flash almost, that the
   real secret of divine union lay quite as much in this practical aspect
   of it as in any interior revealings or experiences. For if I do
   nothing, literally nothing, apart from Christ, I am of course united to
   Him in a continual oneness that cannot be questioned or gainsaid; while
   if I live a large part of my daily life and perform a large part of my
   daily work apart from Him, I have no real union, no matter how exalted
   and delightful my emotions concerning it may be.

   It is to consider this aspect of the subject, therefore, that the
   present paper is written. For I am very sure that the wide divorce made
   between things spiritual and things temporal, of which I have spoken,
   has done more than almost anything else to hinder a realized interior
   union with God, and to put all religion so outside of the pale of
   common life as to make it an almost unattainable thing to the ordinary
   mass of mankind. Moreover it has introduced an unnatural constraint and
   stiltedness into the experience of Christians that seems to shut them
   out from much of the free, happy, childlike ease that belongs of right
   to the children of God.

   I feel, therefore, that it is of vital importance for us to understand
   the truth of this matter.

   And the thought that makes it clearest to me is this, that the fact of
   our oneness with Christ contains the whole thing in a nutshell. If we
   are one with Him, then of course in the very nature of things we can do
   nothing without Him. For that which is one cannot act as being two. And
   if I therefore do anything without Christ, then I am not one with Him
   in that thing, and like a branch severed from the vine I am withered
   and worthless. It is as if the branch should recognize its connection
   with and dependence upon the vine for most of its growth, and
   fruit-bearing, and climbing, but should feel a capacity in itself to
   grow and climb over a certain fence or around the trunk of a certain
   tree, and should therefore sever its connection with the vine for this
   part of its living. Of course that which thus sought an independent
   life would wither and die in the very nature of things. And just so is
   it with us who are branches of Christ the true vine. No independent
   action, whether small or great, is possible to us without withering and
   death, any more than to the branch of the natural vine.

   This will show us at once how fatal to the realized oneness with
   Christ, for which our souls hunger, is the divorce I have spoken of. We
   have all realized, more or less, that without Him we cannot live our
   religious life, but when it comes to living our so-called temporal
   life, to keeping house or transacting business, or making calls, or
   darning stockings, or sweeping a room, or trimming a bonnet, or
   entertaining company, who is there that even theoretically thinks such
   things as these are to be done for Christ, and can only be rightly done
   as we abide in Him and do them in His strength?

   But if it is Christ working in the Christian who is to lead the
   prayer-meeting, then, since Christ and the Christian are one, it must
   be also Christ working in and through the Christian who is to keep the
   house and make the bargain; and one duty is therefore in the very
   essence of things as religious as the other. It is the man that makes
   the action, not the action the man. And as much solemnity and sweetness
   will thus be brought into our everyday domestic and social affairs as
   into the so-called religious occasions of life, if we will only
   "acknowledge God in all our ways," and do whatever we do, even if it be
   only eating and drinking, to His glory.

   If our religion is really our life, and not merely something extraneous
   tacked on to our life, it must necessarily go into everything in which
   we live; and no act, however human or natural it may be, can be taken
   out of its control and guidance.

   If God is with us always, then He is just as much with us in our
   business times and our social times as in our religious times, and one
   moment is as solemn with His presence as another.

   If it is a fact that in Him we "live and move and have our being," then
   it is also a fact, whether we know it or not, that without Him we
   cannot do anything. And facts are stubborn things, thank God, and do
   not alter for all our feelings.

   In Psalm 127:1, 2, we have a very striking illustration of this truth.
   The Psalmist says, "Except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain
   that build it: except the Lord keep the city, the watchman waketh but
   in vain. It is vain for you to rise up early, to sit up late, to eat
   the bread of sorrows; for so He giveth His beloved sleep." The two
   things here spoken of as being done in vain, unless the Lord is in the
   doing of them, are purely secular things, so called; simple business
   matters on the human plane of life. And whatever spiritual lesson they
   were intended to teach gains its impressiveness only from this, that
   these statements concerning God's presence in temporal things were
   statements of patent and incontrovertible facts.

   In truth the Bible is full of this fact, and the only wonder is how any
   believer in the Bible could have overlooked it. From the building of
   cities down to the numbering of the hairs of our head and the noting of
   a sparrow's fall, throughout the whole range of homely daily living,
   God is declared to be present and to be the mainspring of it all.
   Whatever we do, even if it be such a purely physical thing as eating
   and drinking, we are to do for Him and to His glory, and we are
   exhorted to so live and so walk in the light in everything, as to have
   it made manifest of our works, temporal as well as spiritual, that
   "they are wrought in God."

   There is unspeakable comfort in this for every loving Christian heart,
   in that it turns all of life into a sacrament, and makes the kitchen,
   or the workshop, or the nursery, or the parlor, as sweet and solemn a
   place of service to the Lord, and as real a means of union with Him, as
   the prayer-meeting, or the mission board, or the charitable visitation.

   A dear young Christian mother and housekeeper came to me once with a
   sorely grieved heart, because of her engrossing temporal life. "There
   seems," she said, "to be nothing spiritual about my life from one
   week's end to the other. My large family of little children are so
   engrossing that day after day passes without my having a single moment
   for anything but simply attendance on them and on my necessary
   household duties, and I go to bed night after night sick at heart
   because I have felt separated from my Lord all day long, and have not
   been able to do anything for Him." I told her of what I have written
   above, and assured her that all would be changed if she would only see
   and acknowledge God in all these homely duties, and would recognize her
   utter dependence upon Him for the doing of them. Her heart received the
   good news with gladness, and months afterward she told me that from
   that moment life had become a transformed and glorified thing, with the
   abiding presence of the Lord, and with the sweetness of continual
   service to Him.

   Another Christian, a young lady in a fashionable family, came to me
   also in similar grief that in so much of her life she was separated
   from God and had no sense of His presence. I told her she ought never
   to do anything that could cause such a separation; but she assured me
   that it was impossible to avoid it, as the things she meant were none
   of them wrong things. "For instance," she said, "it is plainly my duty
   to pay calls with my mother, and yet nothing seems to separate me so
   much from God as paying calls." "But how would it be," I asked, "if you
   paid the calls as service to the Lord and for His glory?" "What!" she
   exclaimed, "pay calls for God! I never heard of such a thing." "But why
   not?" I asked; "if it is right to pay calls at all it ought to be done
   for God, for we are commanded whatsoever we do to do it for His glory,
   and if it is not right you ought not to do it. As a Christian," I
   continued, "you must not do anything that you cannot do for Him." "I
   see! I see!" she exclaimed, after a little pause, "and it makes all
   life look so different! Nothing can separate me from Him that is not
   sin, but each act done to His glory, whatever it may be, will only draw
   me closer and make His presence more real."

   These two instances will illustrate my meaning. And I feel sure there
   are thousands of other burdened and weary lives that would be similarly
   transformed if these truths were but realized and acted on.

   An old spiritual writer says something to this effect, that in order to
   become a saint it is not always necessary to change our works, but only
   to put an interior purpose towards God in them all; that we must begin
   to do for His glory and in His strength that which before we did for
   self and in self's capacity; which means, after all, just what our Lord
   meant when He said, "Without me ye can do nothing."

   There is another side of this truth also which is full of comfort, and
   which the Psalmist develops in the verses I have quoted. "It is vain,"
   he says, "to rise up early, to sit up late, to eat the bread of
   sorrows." Or, in other words, "What is the use of all this worry and
   strain? For the work will after all amount to nothing unless God is in
   it, and if He is in it, what folly to fret or be burdened, since He of
   course, by the very fact of His presence, assumes the care and
   responsibility of it all."

   Ah, it is vain indeed, and I would that all God's children knew it!

   We mothers at least ought to know it, for our own ways with our
   children would teach us something of it every day we live, if we had
   but the "eyes to see."

   How many mothers have risen early, and sat up, late, and eaten the
   bread of sorrows, just that they might give sleep to their beloved
   children. And how grieved their hearts would have been if, after all
   their pains, the children had refused to rest. I can appeal to some
   mother hearts, I am sure, as thoroughly understanding my meaning.
   Memories will arise of the flushed and rosy boy coming in at night,
   tired with his play or his work, with knees out and coat torn, and of
   the patient, loving toil to patch and mend it all, sitting up late and
   rising early, that the dearly loved cause of all the mischief might
   rest undisturbed in childhood's happy sleep. How "vain," and worse than
   vain, would it have been for that loved and cared-for darling to have
   himself also sat up late, and risen early, and eaten the bread of
   sorrows, when all the while his mother was doing it for him just that
   he might not have it to do.

   And if this is true of mothers, how much more true must it be of Him
   who made the mothers, and who came among us in bodily form to bear our
   burdens, and carry our sorrows, and do our work, just that we might
   "enter into His rest."

   Beloved, have we entered into this rest?

   "For he that is entered into his rest, he also hath ceased from his own
   works as God did from His." That is, he has learned at last the lesson
   that without Christ or apart from Him he can do nothing, but that he
   can do all things through Christ strengthening him; and therefore he
   has laid aside all self-effort, and has abandoned himself to God that
   He may work in him both to will and to do of His good pleasure. This
   and this only is the rest that remaineth for the people of God.

   Scientific men are seeking to resolve all forces in nature into one
   primal force. Unity of origin is the present cry of science. Light,
   heat, sound are all said to be the products of one force differently
   applied, and that force is motion. All things, say the scientists, can
   be resolved back to this. Whether they are right or wrong I cannot say;
   but the Bible reveals to us one grand primal force which is behind
   motion itself, and that is God-force. God is at the source of
   everything, God is the origin of everything, God is the explanation of
   everything. Without Him was not anything made that was made, and
   without Him is not anything done that is done.

   Surely, then, it is not the announcement of any mystery, but the simple
   statement of a simple fact, when our Lord says, "Without me ye can do
   nothing."

   Even of Himself He said, "I can of mine own self do nothing," and He
   meant that He and His Father were so one that any independent action
   was impossible. Surely it is the revelation of a glorious necessity
   existing between our souls and Christ that He should say we could do
   nothing without Him; for it means that He has made us so one with
   Himself that independent action is as impossible with us as towards
   Him, as it was with Him as towards His Father.

   Dear Christian, dost thou not catch a glimpse here of a region of
   wondrous glory?

   Let us believe, then, that without Him we can literally do nothing. We
   must believe it, for it is true. But let us recognize its truth, and
   act on it from this time forward. Let us make a hearty renunciation of
   all living apart from Christ, and let us begin from this moment to
   acknowledge Him in all our ways, and do everything, whatsoever we do,
   as service to Him and for His glory, depending upon Him alone for
   wisdom, and strength, and sweetness, and patience, and everything else
   that is necessary for the right accomplishing of all our living.

   As I said before, it is not so much a change of acts that will be
   necessary, as a change of motive and of dependence. The house will be
   kept, or the children cared for, or the business transacted, perhaps,
   just the same as before as to the outward, but inwardly God will be
   acknowledged, and depended on, and served; and there will be all the
   difference between a life lived at ease in the glory of His presence,
   and a life lived painfully and with effort apart from Him. There will
   result also from this bringing of God into our affairs a wonderful
   accession of divine wisdom in the conduct of them, and a far greater
   quickness and dispatch in their accomplishment, a surprising increase
   in the fertility of resource, an ease in apprehending the true nature
   and bearing of things, and an enlargement on every side that will amaze
   the hitherto cramped and cabined soul.

   I mean this literally. I mean that the house will be kept more nicely
   and with greater ease, the children will be trained more swiftly, the
   stockings will be darned more swiftly, the guest will be entertained
   more comfortably, the servants will be managed more easily, the bargain
   will be made more satisfactorily, and all life will move with far more
   sweetness and harmony. For God will be in every moment of it, and where
   He is all must go well.

   Moreover the soul itself, in this natural and simple way, will acquire
   such a holy habit of "abiding in Christ" that at last His presence will
   become the most real thing in life to our consciousness, and an
   habitual, silent, and secret conversation with Him will be carried on
   that will yield a continual joy.

   Sometimes the child of God asks eagerly and hungrily, "What is the
   shortest and quickest way by which I can reach the highest degree of
   union and communion with God, possible to human beings in this life?"
   No shorter or quicker way can be found than the one I have been
   declaring. By the homely path of everyday duties done thus in God and
   for God, the sublimest heights are reached. Not as a reward, however,
   but as an inevitable and natural result, for if we thus abide in Him
   and refuse to leave Him, where He is there shall we also be, and all
   that He is will be ours.

   If, then, thou wouldst know, beloved reader, the interior divine union
   realized in thy soul, begin from this very day to put it outwardly in
   practice as I have suggested. Offer each moment of thy living and each
   act of thy doing to God, and say to Him continually, "Lord, I am doing
   this in Thee and for Thy glory. Thou art my strength, and my wisdom,
   and my all-sufficient supply for every need. I depend only upon Thee."
   Refuse utterly to live for a single moment or to perform a single act
   apart from Him. Persist in this until it becomes the established habit
   of thy soul. And sooner or later thou shalt surely know the longings of
   thy soul satisfied in the abiding presence of Christ, thy indwelling
   Life.
     __________________________________________________________________

    Chapter 22

  "GOD WITH US"; OR, THE ONE HUNDRED AND THIRTY-NINTH PSALM


   "Thus doth thy hospitable greatness lie

   Around us like a boundless sea;

   We cannot lose ourselves where all is home,

   Nor drift away from Thee."

   Very few of us understand the full meaning of the words in Matt. 1:23,
   "They shall call His name Emmanuel; which being interpreted is, God
   with us." In this short sentence is revealed to us the grandest fact
   the world can ever know; that God, the Almighty God, the Creator of
   Heaven and earth, is not a far-off Deity, dwelling in a Heaven of
   unapproachable glory, but is living with us right here in this world,
   in the midst of our poor, ignorant, helpless lives, as close to us as
   we are to ourselves. This seems so incredible to the human heart that
   we are very slow to believe it; but that the Bible teaches it as a
   fact, from cover to cover, cannot be denied by any honest mind. In the
   very beginning of Genesis we read of the "presence of the Lord God
   amongst the trees of the garden." And from that time on He is revealed
   to us always as in the most familiar and daily intercourse with His
   people everywhere.

   In Exodus we find Him asking them to make Him a "sanctuary, that He
   might dwell among them." He is recorded as having "walked" with them in
   the wilderness, and as "taking up His abode" with them in the promised
   land. He taught them to rely on Him as an ever-present Friend and
   Helper, to consult Him about all their affairs, and to abandon the
   whole management of their lives to Him. And finally He came in Christ
   in bodily form and dwelt in the world as a man among men, making
   Himself bone of our bone and flesh of our flesh, taking upon Him our
   nature, and revealing to us, in the most tangible and real way
   possible, the grand, and blessed, and incomprehensible fact that He
   intended to be with us always, even unto the end of the world.

   Whoever will believe this fact with all their hearts will find in it
   the solution of every difficulty of their lives.

   I remember when I was a little girl and found myself in any trouble or
   perplexity, the coming in of my father or mother on the scene would
   always bring me immediate relief. The moment I heard the voice of one
   of them saying, "Daughter, I am here," that moment every burden dropped
   off and every anxiety was stilled. It was their simple presence that
   did it. They did not need to promise to relieve me, they did not need
   to tell me their plans of relief; the simple fact of their presence was
   all the assurance I required that everything now would be set straight
   and all would go well for me, and my only interest after their arrival
   was simply to see how they would do it all. Perhaps they were
   exceptional parents, to have created such confidence in their
   children's hearts. I think myself they were. But as our God is
   certainly an exceptional God, the application has absolute force, and
   His presence is literally all we need. It would be enough for us, even
   if we had not a single promise nor a single revelation of His plans.
   How often in the Bible He has stilled all questions and all fears by
   the simple announcement, "I will be with thee"; and who can doubt that
   in these words He meant to assure us that all His wisdom, and love, and
   omnipotent power would therefore, of course, be engaged on our side?
   Over and over again in my childhood have the magic words, "Oh, there is
   mother!" brought me immediate relief and comfort; and over and over
   again in my later years have almost the same words reverently spoken,
   "Oh, there is God!" brought me a far more blessed deliverance. With Him
   present, what could I have to fear? Since He has said, "I will never
   leave thee nor forsake thee," surely I may boldly say, "The Lord is my
   helper, and I will not fear what man shall do unto me." I remember to
   this day the inspiring sense of utter security that used to come to me
   with my earthly father's presence. I never feared anything when he was
   by. And surely with my Heavenly Father by, there can be no possible
   room for fear.

   It is because of its practical help and comfort, therefore, that I
   desire to make this wonderful fact of "Emmanuel, God with us," clear
   and definite, for I am very sure but few, even of God's own children,
   really believe it. They may say they do, they may repeat a thousand
   times in the conventional, pious tone considered suitable to such a
   sentiment, "Oh, yes, we know that God is always present with us,
   but---- And in this "but" the whole story is told. There are no "buts"
   in the vocabulary of the soul that accepts His presence as a literal
   fact. Such a soul is joyously triumphant over every suggestion of fear
   or of doubt. It has God, and that is enough for it. His presence is its
   certain security and supply, always, and for everything.

   Let me, then, beg my readers to turn with me for a while to the 139th
   Psalm, where we shall find a most blessed revelation of this truth.

   The central thought of the Psalm is to be found in verses 7 to 12,
   "Whither shall I go from thy Spirit? or whither shall I flee from thy
   presence? If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there: if I make my bed
   in hell, behold, thou art there. If I take the wings of the morning,
   and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea; even there shall thy hand
   lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me. If I say, Surely the
   darkness shall cover me; even the night shall be light about me. Yea,
   the darkness hideth not from thee; but the night shineth as the day:
   the darkness and the light are both alike to thee. For thou hast
   possessed my reins: thou hast covered me in my mother's womb."

   I cannot conceive of a more definite or sweeping declaration of His
   continual presence with us, wherever we may be or whatever we may do,
   than is contained in this passage. People talk about seeking to get
   into the presence of the Lord, but here we see that they cannot get out
   of it; that there is no place in the whole universe where He is not
   present; neither heaven, nor hell, nor the uttermost parts of the sea;
   and no darkness so great as to hide for one moment from Him. And the
   reason of this is, that He "has possessed our reins," which means that
   He is not only with us, but within us, and consequently must accompany
   us wherever we ourselves go.

   We must accept it as true, therefore, that the words of our Lord, "Lo,
   I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world," were the
   expression, not of a beautiful sentiment merely, but of an
   incontrovertible fact. He is with us, and we cannot get away from Him.

   We may be in such thick darkness as to be utterly unable to see Him,
   and may think, probably often have thought, that, therefore, He does
   not see us. But our Psalm assures us that the darkness hideth not from
   Him, and that, in fact, darkness and light are both alike to Him. We
   are as present to His view and as plainly seen when our own souls are
   in the depths of spiritual darkness, as when they are basking in the
   brightest light. The darkness may hide Him from us, but it does not
   hide us from Him. Neither does any apparent spiritual distance or
   wandering take us out of His presence; not even if we go into the
   depths of sin in our wandering. In the uttermost parts of the sea, or
   wherever we may be, He is ever present to hold and to lead us. There is
   not a moment nor a place where we can be left without His care.

   There are times in our lives when delirium makes us utterly unaware of
   the presence of our most careful and tender nurses. A child in delirium
   will cry out in anguish for its mother, and will harrow her heart by
   its piteous lamentations and appeals, when all the while she is holding
   its fevered hand, and bathing its aching head, and caring for it with
   all the untold tenderness of a mother's love. The darkness of disease
   has hidden the mother from the child, but has not hidden the child from
   the mother.

   And just so it is with our God and us. The darkness of our doubts or
   our fears, of our sorrows or our despair, or even of our sins, cannot
   hide us from Him, although it may, and often does, hide Him from us. He
   has told us that the darkness and the light are both alike to Him; and
   if our faith will only lay hold of this as a fact, we will be enabled
   to pass through the darkest seasons in quiet trust, sure that all the
   while, though we cannot see nor feel Him, our God is caring for us, and
   will never leave nor forsake us.

   Whether, however, this abiding presence of our God will be a joy to us
   or a sorrow, will depend upon what we know about Him. If we think of
   Him as a stern tyrant, intent only on His own glory, we shall be afraid
   of His continual presence. If we think of Him as a tender, loving
   Father, intent only on our blessing and happiness, we shall be glad and
   thankful to have Him thus ever with us. For the presence and the care
   of love can never mean anything but good to the one beloved.

   The Psalm we are considering shows us that the presence of our God is
   the presence of love, and that it brings us an infinitude of comfort
   and rest. He says in verses 1 to 5, "O Lord, thou hast searched me, and
   known me. Thou knowest my downsitting and mine uprising; thou
   understandest my thought afar off. Thou compassest my path and my lying
   down, and art acquainted with all my ways. For there is not a word in
   my tongue, but lo, O Lord, thou knowest it altogether. Thou hast beset
   me behind and before, and laid thine hand upon me."

   Our God knows us and understands us, and is acquainted with all our
   ways. No one else in all the world understands us. Our actions are
   misinterpreted, it may be, and our motives misjudged. Our natural
   characteristics are not taken into account, nor our inherited
   tendencies considered. No one makes allowances for our ill health; no
   one realizes how much we have to contend with. But our Father knows it
   all. He understands us, and His judgment of us takes into account every
   element, conscious or unconscious, that goes to make up our character
   and to control our actions. Only an all-comprehending love can be just,
   and our God is just. No wonder Faber can say:--


   "There is no place where earth's sorrows

   Are more felt than up in Heaven;

   There is no place where earth's failings

   Have such kindly judgment given."

   Some of you have been afraid of His justice, perhaps, because you
   thought it would be against you. But do you not see now that it is all
   on your side, just as a mother's justice is, because "He knoweth our
   frame and remembereth that we are dust"? No human judge can ever do
   this; and to me this comprehension of God is one of my most blessed
   comforts. Often I do not understand myself; all within looks confused
   and hopelessly tangled. But then I remember that He has searched me,
   and that He knows me and understands the thoughts which so perplex me,
   and that, therefore, I may just leave the whole miserable tangle to Him
   to unravel. And my soul sinks down at once, as on downy pillows, into a
   place of the most blissful rest.

   Then further, because of this complete knowledge and understanding of
   our needs, what comfort it is to be told that He knows our downsitting
   and our uprising; that He compasses our path, and takes note of our
   lying down. Just what a mother does for her foolish, careless,
   ignorant, but dearly loved little ones, this very thing does our God
   for us. When a mother is with her children she thinks of their comfort
   and well-being always before her own. They must have comfortable seats
   where no draught can reach them, no matter what amount of discomfort
   she may herself be compelled to endure. Their beds must be soft and
   their blankets warm, let hers be what they may. Their paths must be
   smooth and safe, even though she is obliged herself to walk in rough
   and dangerous ways. Her own comfort, as compared with that of her
   children, is of no account in a loving mother's eyes. And surely our
   God has not made the mothers in this world more capable of a
   self-sacrificing love than He is Himself. He must be better and greater
   on the line of love and self-sacrifice than any mother He ever made.

   Then, since He has assured us that He knows our downsitting and our
   uprising, that He compasses our path and our lying down, we may be
   perfectly and blessedly sure that in even these little details of our
   lives we get the very best that His love, and wisdom, and power can
   compass. I mean this in a very literal sense. I mean that He cares for
   our literal seats and our literal beds, and sees that we, each one,
   have just that sort of a seat or that sort of a bed which is best for
   us and for our highest development. And just on this last point is
   where He is so much better than any mother can be. His love is a wise
   love, that sees the outcome of things, and cares more for our highest
   good than for that which is lower. So that, while a mother's weak love
   cannot see beyond the child's present comfort, and cannot bear to
   inflict or allow any discomfort, the strong, wise love of our God can
   bear to permit the present discomfort, for the sake of the future glory
   that is to result therefrom.

   At home and abroad, therefore, let us commit the choosing of our seats,
   and of our beds, and of all the other little homely circumstances of
   our daily lives and surroundings, to the God who has thus assured us
   that He knows all about every one of them.

   For we are told in our Psalm that He "besets" our path. We have some of
   us known what it was to be "beset" by unwelcome and unpleasant people
   or things. But we never have thought, perhaps, that we were beset by
   God, that He loves us so that He cannot leave us alone, and that no
   coldness nor rebuffs on our parts can drive Him away. Yet it is
   gloriously true! And, moreover, He besets us "behind" as well as
   before. Just as a mother does. She goes after her children and picks up
   all they have dropped, and clears away all the rubbish they have left
   behind them. We mothers begin this in the nursery with the blocks and
   playthings, and we go on with it all our lives long; seeking
   continually to set straight that which our children have left crooked
   behind them; often at the cost of much toil and trouble, but always
   with a love that makes the toil and trouble nothing in comparison to
   caring for the children we love. What good mother ever turned away the
   poor little tearful darling who came with a tangled knot for her
   unraveling, or refused to help the eager rosy boy to unwind his
   kite-strings? Suppose it has been their own fault that the knots and
   tangles have come, still her love can sympathize with and pity the very
   faults themselves, and all the more does she seek to atone for them.

   All this and more does our God do for us from our earliest infancy,
   long even before we know enough to be conscious of it, until the very
   end of our earthly lives. We have seen Him before us perhaps, but we
   have never thought of Him as behind us as well. Yet it is a blessed
   fact that He is behind us all the time, longing to make crooked things
   straight, to untangle our tangled skeins, and to atone continually for
   the wrong we have done and the mistakes we have made. If any of us,
   therefore, have that in our past which has caused us anxiety or
   remorse, let us lift up our heads in a happy confidence from
   henceforth, that the God who is behind us will set it all straight
   somehow, if we will but commit it to Him, and can even make our very
   mistakes and misdoings work together for good. Ah! it is a grand thing
   to be "beset" by God.

   Then again what depths of comfort there are in verses 14 to 16: "I will
   praise thee; for I am fearfully and wonderfully made: marvellous are
   Thy works; and that my soul knoweth right well. My substance was not
   hid from thee, when I was made in secret, and curiously wrought in the
   lowest parts of the earth. Thine eyes did see my substance, yet being
   unperfect; and in thy book all my members were written, which in
   continuance were fashioned, when as yet there was none of them."

   One of the things which often troubles us more than we care to confess,
   is our dislike of the way we have been put together. Our mental or
   moral "make-up" does not suit us. We think if we had only been created
   with less of this or more of that, if we were less impulsive or more
   enthusiastic, if we had been made more like someone else whom we
   admire, that then our chances of success would have been far greater;
   that we could have served God far more acceptably; and could have been
   more satisfactory in every way to ourselves and to Him. And we are
   tempted sometimes to think that with our miserable make-up, it is
   hopeless to expect to please Him.

   If we really realized that God Himself had made us, we should see the
   folly of all this at once, but we secretly feel as if somehow He had
   not had much hand in the matter, but as if we had been put together in
   a haphazard sort of way, that had left our characters very much to
   chance. We believe in creation in the general, but not in the
   particular, when it comes to ourselves. But in this Psalm we see that
   God has presided over the creation of each one of us, superintending
   the smallest details; even, to speak figuratively, writing down what
   each "member" was to be, when as yet there was none of them. Therefore
   we, just as we are naturally, with just the characteristics that inhere
   in us by birth, are precisely what God would have us to be, and were
   planned out by His own hand to do the especial work that He has
   prepared for our doing. I mean, of course, our natural characteristics,
   not the perversion of them by sin on our parts.

   There is something very glorifying to the Creator in this way of
   looking at it. Genius always seeks expression, and seeks, too, to
   express itself in as great a variety of forms and ways as possible. No
   true artist repeats himself, but each picture he paints, or statue he
   carves, is a new expression of his creative power. When we go to an
   exhibition of pictures, we should feel it a lowering of art if two were
   exactly alike; and just so is it with us who are "God's workmanship."
   His creative power is expressed differently in each one of us. And in
   the individual "make-up" which sometimes so troubles us, there is a
   manifestation of this power different from every other, and without
   which the day of exhibition, when we are, each one, to be to the praise
   of His glory, would be incomplete. All He asks of us is that, as He has
   had the making of us, so He may also have the managing, since He alone
   understands us, and is, therefore, the only one who can do it.

   The man who makes an intricate machine is the best one to manage it and
   repair it; any one else who meddles with it is apt to spoil it. And
   when we think of the intricacy of our inward machinery and the
   continual failure of our own management of it, we may well be thankful
   to hand it all over to the One who created it, and to leave it in His
   hands. We may be sure He will then make the best out of us that can be
   made, and that we, even we, with our "peculiar temperaments," and our
   apparently unfortunate characteristics, will be made vessels unto
   honor, sanctified and meet for the Master's use, and fitted to every
   good work.

   I met once with a saying in an old Quaker writer which I have never
   forgotten: "Be content to be just what thy God has made thee." It has
   helped me to understand the point upon which I am dwelling; and I feel
   sure contentment with our own "make-up" is as essential a part of our
   submission to God as contentment with any other of the circumstances of
   our daily life. If we did not each one of us exist just as we are by
   nature, then one expression of God's creative power would be missing,
   and one part of His work would be left undone. And besides, to complain
   of ourselves is to complain of the One who has made us, and cannot but
   grieve Him. Let us be content, then, and only see to it that we let the
   Divine Potter make out of us the very best He can, and use us according
   to His own good pleasure.

   Verses 17 and 18 bring out another view of God's continual presence
   with us, and that is, that He is always thinking about us, and that His
   thoughts are kind and loving thoughts, for the Psalmist calls them
   precious. "How precious also are thy thoughts unto me, O God! How great
   is the sum of them! If I should count them, they are more in number
   than the sand: when I awake, I am still with thee."

   So many people are tempted to think that God is not paying any
   attention to them. They think that their interests and their affairs
   are altogether beneath His notice, and that they are too unworthy to
   hope for His attention. But they wrong Him grievously by such thoughts.
   A mother pays as much attention to her smallest infant as to her oldest
   children, and is as much interested in its little needs and pleasures
   as in theirs. I am not sure but she is more. Her thoughts dwell around
   the one who needs them most; and He who made the mother's heart will
   not Himself be less attentive to the needs and pleasures of the meanest
   and most helpless of His creatures. He even hears the young lions when
   they cry, and not a sparrow can fall to the ground without Him;
   therefore, we, who are of more value than many sparrows, need not be
   afraid of a moment's neglect.

   In fact, the responsibilities of creating anything require an
   unintermitting care of it on the part of the Creator; and it is the
   glory of omnipotence that it can attend at once to the smallest details
   and to the grandest operations as well.


   "For greatness which is infinite makes room

   For all things in its lap to lie;

   We should be crushed by a magnificence

   Short of infinity."

   I do not know why it is that we consider a man or woman weak who
   attends to large affairs to the neglect of little details, and then
   turn around and accuse our God of doing this very thing. But if any of
   my readers have hitherto been guilty of this folly, let it end now and
   here, and let each one from henceforth believe, without any
   questioning, that always and everywhere the "Lord thinketh upon me."

   The remainder of the Psalm develops the perfect accord of thought
   between the soul and God, where this life of simple faith has been
   entered upon. Having learned the transforming fact of God's continual
   presence and unceasing care, the soul is brought into so profound a
   union with Him as to love what He loves, and hate what He hates; and
   eagerly appeals to Him to search it, and try it, that there may be no
   spot left anywhere in all its being which is out of harmony with Him.

   In the sunlight of His presence darkness must flee, and the heart will
   soon feel that it cannot endure to have any corner shut away from His
   shining; for in His presence is "fulness of joy," and at His right hand
   "there are pleasures forevermore."

   An old woman, living in a rather desolate part of England, made
   considerable money by selling ale and beer to chance travelers who
   passed her lonely cottage. But her conscience troubled her about it.
   She wanted to be a Christian and to go to Heaven when she died, but she
   had an inward feeling that if she did become a Christian she would have
   to give up her profitable business, and this she thought would be more
   than she could do; so that between the two things she was brought into
   great conflict.

   But one night, at the meeting she attended, a preacher from a distance
   told about the sweet and blessed fact of God's continual presence with
   us, and of the joy this was sure to bring when it was known. Her soul
   was enraptured at the thought of such a possibility for her, and
   forgetting all about the beer, she began at once with a very simple
   faith to claim it as a blessed reality. Over and over again she
   exclaimed in her heart, as the preacher went on with his sermon, "Why,
   Lord Jesus, I didn't know as thee wast always with me! Why, Lord, how
   good it is to know that I have got thee all the time to live with me
   and take care of me! Why, Lord, I sha'n't never be lonely no more!" And
   when the meeting closed and she took her way home across the moors, all
   the time the happy refrain went on, "Ah, Lord Jesus, thee art going
   home with me tonight. Never mind, Lord Jesus, old Betty won't never let
   thee go again now, I knows I have got thee!"

   As her faith thus laid hold of the fact of His presence she began to
   rejoice in it more and more, until finally, when she had reached her
   cottage door, her soul was full of delight. As she opened the door, the
   first object her eyes rested upon was a great pot of ale on the table
   ready for selling. At once it flashed into her mind, "The Lord will not
   like to have that ale in the house where He lives," and her whole heart
   responded eagerly, "That ale shall go." She knew the pot was heavy, and
   she kneeled beside it saying, "Lord, thee hast come home with me, and
   thee art going to live with me always in this cottage, and I know thee
   don't like this ale. Please give me strength to tip it over into the
   road." Strength was given, and the ale was soon running down the lane.
   Then the old woman came back into her cottage, and kneeling down again
   thanked the Lord for the strength given, and added, "Now, Lord, if
   there is anything else in this cottage that thee does not like, show it
   to me, and it shall be tipped out too."

   Is not this a perfect illustration of the close of our Psalm? "Do not I
   hate them, O Lord, that hate thee? and am not I grieved with those that
   rise up against thee? I hate them with a perfect hatred; I count them
   mine enemies. Search me, O God, and know my heart; try me, and know my
   thoughts; and see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the
   way everlasting."

   Just as light drives out darkness, so does the realized presence of God
   drive out sin, and the soul that by faith abides in His presence knows
   a very real and wonderful deliverance.

   And now I trust that some will ask, "How can I find this presence to be
   real to myself?" I will close, therefore, with a few practical
   directions.

   First, convince yourself from the Scriptures that it is a fact. Facts
   must always be the foundation of our experiences, or the experiences
   are worthless. It is not the feeling that causes the fact, but the fact
   that produces the feeling. And what every soul needs in this case first
   of all, is to be convinced beyond question, from God's own words about
   it, that His continual presence with us is an unalterable fact.

   Then, this point having been settled, the next thing to do is to make
   it real to ourselves by "practising His presence," as an old writer
   expresses it, always and everywhere, and in everything. This means
   simply that you are to obey the Scripture command, and "in all your
   ways acknowledge Him," by saying over each hour and moment, "The Lord
   is here," and by doing everything you do, even if only eating and
   drinking, in His presence and for Him. Literally, "whether, therefore,
   ye eat or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of God."

   By this continual "practice of His presence," the soul at last acquires
   a habit of faith; and it becomes, finally, as difficult to doubt His
   presence as it was at first to believe it.

   No great effort is required for this, but simply an unwavering faith.
   It is not studied reasonings or elaborate meditations that will help
   you here. The soul must recognize, by an act of simple faith, that God
   is present, and must then accustom itself to a continual conversation
   with Him about all its affairs, in freedom and simplicity. He does not
   require great things of us. A little remembrance of His presence, a few
   words of love and confidence, a momentary lifting of the heart to Him
   from time to time as we go about our daily affairs, a constant appeal
   to Him in everything as to a present and loving friend and helper, an
   endeavor to live in a continual sense of His presence, and a letting of
   our hearts "dwell at ease" because of it,--this is all He asks; the
   least little remembrance is welcome to Him, and helps to make His
   presence real to us.

   Whoever will be faithful in this exercise will soon be led into a
   blessed realization of all I have been trying to tell in this book, and
   of far more that I cannot tell; and will understand in a way beyond
   telling, those wonderful words concerning our Lord, "They shall call
   His name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is, God with us."
     __________________________________________________________________

                                    Indexes
     __________________________________________________________________

Index of Scripture References

   Genesis

   [1]37:5-10   [2]37:19   [3]37:20   [4]37:27   [5]37:28   [6]39:1-6
   [7]39:6   [8]39:19   [9]39:20   [10]39:21-23   [11]39:22   [12]39:23
   [13]43:38-43

   Deuteronomy

   [14]26:17   [15]26:18   [16]26:19   [17]32:12   [18]32:13   [19]33:26

   2 Kings

   [20]2:11   [21]2:12   [22]6:14-17   [23]19:23

   Psalms

   [24]8:6   [25]17:5   [26]18:10   [27]20:7   [28]20:8   [29]40:1
   [30]40:2   [31]45:3   [32]45:4   [33]62:5-8   [34]68:4   [35]68:24
   [36]68:32-34   [37]78:17-22   [38]127:1   [39]127:2

   Proverbs

   [40]20:24

   Song of Solomon

   [41]3:9   [42]3:10

   Isaiah

   [43]9:6   [44]9:7   [45]31:1-3   [46]46:4   [47]58:14   [48]63:9
   [49]66:15   [50]66:16

   Daniel

   [51]2:44

   Micah

   [52]5:10

   Habakkuk

   [53]3:8   [54]3:12   [55]3:13

   Haggai

   [56]2:22

   Matthew

   [57]1:23   [58]5   [59]5:38-48   [60]6   [61]6:25-34   [62]6:25-34
   [63]7   [64]7:21

   Mark

   [65]11:25   [66]11:26

   Luke

   [67]6:46-49   [68]14:26-33

   John

   [69]10:3   [70]10:4   [71]10:4   [72]14:1   [73]14:26   [74]14:27
   [75]15   [76]18:36

   Acts

   [77]1:5

   Romans

   [78]6   [79]6:11   [80]12:1   [81]12:2   [82]12:2   [83]12:12
   [84]12:19   [85]12:20   [86]12:21   [87]14:17

   1 Corinthians

   [88]3:16   [89]4:20

   2 Corinthians

   [90]2   [91]5:18   [92]5:19   [93]6:17   [94]6:18   [95]12:7-10

   Galatians

   [96]5:6

   Ephesians

   [97]2:6   [98]2:6   [99]2:10   [100]4:29   [101]4:32   [102]6:12

   Philippians

   [103]2:13   [104]3:7-9   [105]4:6   [106]4:7

   1 Timothy

   [107]2:9   [108]2:10

   Hebrews

   [109]3:5   [110]3:6   [111]8:6-13   [112]10:22   [113]10:23
   [114]12:5-11   [115]13:21

   James

   [116]1:5   [117]1:6   [118]1:6   [119]1:7   [120]4:4

   1 Peter

   [121]2:19-21   [122]3:3   [123]3:4

   2 Peter

   [124]3:18

   1 John

   [125]1:9   [126]1:9   [127]2:15-17   [128]5:14   [129]5:15

   Revelation

   [130]1:5   [131]1:6
     __________________________________________________________________

            This document is from the Christian Classics Ethereal
               Library at Calvin College, http://www.ccel.org,
                   generated on demand from ThML source.

References

   1. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=37&scrV=5#xxii-p48.1
   2. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=37&scrV=19#xxii-p48.2
   3. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=37&scrV=20#xxii-p48.3
   4. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=37&scrV=27#xxii-p48.4
   5. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=37&scrV=28#xxii-p48.5
   6. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=39&scrV=1#xxii-p48.8
   7. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=39&scrV=6#xxi-p40.1
   8. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=39&scrV=19#xxii-p48.6
   9. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=39&scrV=20#xxii-p48.7
  10. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=39&scrV=21#xxii-p48.9
  11. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=39&scrV=22#xxi-p40.2
  12. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=39&scrV=23#xxi-p40.3
  13. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=43&scrV=38#xxii-p48.10
  14. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=26&scrV=17#vii-p11.1
  15. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=26&scrV=18#vii-p11.2
  16. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=26&scrV=19#vii-p11.3
  17. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=32&scrV=12#xxii-p6.1
  18. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=32&scrV=13#xxii-p6.2
  19. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=33&scrV=26#xxii-p21.4
  20. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=2Kgs&scrCh=2&scrV=11#xxii-p10.1
  21. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=2Kgs&scrCh=2&scrV=12#xxii-p10.2
  22. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=2Kgs&scrCh=6&scrV=14#xxii-p2.1
  23. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=2Kgs&scrCh=19&scrV=23#xxii-p30.1
  24. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=8&scrV=6#iv-p25.1
  25. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=17&scrV=5#xxii-p42.2
  26. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=18&scrV=10#xxii-p21.3
  27. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=20&scrV=7#xxii-p28.2
  28. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=20&scrV=8#xxii-p28.3
  29. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=40&scrV=1#xxii-p42.3
  30. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=40&scrV=2#xxii-p42.4
  31. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=45&scrV=3#xxii-p21.1
  32. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=45&scrV=4#xxii-p21.2
  33. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=62&scrV=5#xxii-p36.1
  34. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=68&scrV=4#xxii-p38.1
  35. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=68&scrV=24#xxii-p40.1
  36. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=68&scrV=32#xxii-p23.1
  37. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=78&scrV=17#xvi-p20.1
  38. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=127&scrV=1#xxiii-p13.1
  39. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=127&scrV=2#xxiii-p13.2
  40. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=20&scrV=24#xxii-p42.1
  41. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=3&scrV=9#xxii-p16.1
  42. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=3&scrV=10#xxii-p16.2
  43. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=9&scrV=6#xxi-p5.2
  44. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=9&scrV=7#xxi-p5.3
  45. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=31&scrV=1#xxii-p28.1
  46. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=46&scrV=4#xxii-p51.1
  47. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=58&scrV=14#xxii-p8.1
  48. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=63&scrV=9#xxii-p53.1
  49. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=66&scrV=15#xxii-p34.1
  50. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=66&scrV=16#xxii-p34.2
  51. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=2&scrV=44#xxi-p5.1
  52. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Mic&scrCh=5&scrV=10#xxii-p32.1
  53. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Hab&scrCh=3&scrV=8#xxii-p18.1
  54. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Hab&scrCh=3&scrV=12#xxii-p18.2
  55. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Hab&scrCh=3&scrV=13#xxii-p18.3
  56. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Hag&scrCh=2&scrV=22#xxii-p32.2
  57. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=1&scrV=23#xxiv-p1.1
  58. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=0#xxi-p30.1
  59. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=38#xiii-p14.9
  60. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=6&scrV=0#xxi-p30.2
  61. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=6&scrV=25#v-p25.1
  62. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=6&scrV=25#xiii-p14.17
  63. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=7&scrV=0#xxi-p30.3
  64. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=7&scrV=21#xix-p13.1
  65. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=11&scrV=25#xiii-p14.12
  66. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=11&scrV=26#xiii-p14.13
  67. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=6&scrV=46#xix-p16.1
  68. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=14&scrV=26#xiii-p5.1
  69. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=10&scrV=3#xiii-p3.1
  70. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=10&scrV=4#xiii-p3.2
  71. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=10&scrV=4#xiii-p23.1
  72. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=14&scrV=1#vii-p27.1
  73. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=14&scrV=26#xiii-p3.3
  74. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=14&scrV=27#vii-p27.2
  75. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=15&scrV=0#xxiii-p3.1
  76. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=36#xxi-p14.1
  77. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=1&scrV=5#xvii-p13.1
  78. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=6&scrV=0#iv-p13.1
  79. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=6&scrV=11#iii-p8.1
  80. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=12&scrV=1#ix-p9.1
  81. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=12&scrV=2#ix-p9.2
  82. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=12&scrV=2#xiii-p14.14
  83. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=12&scrV=12#vii-p24.1
  84. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=12&scrV=19#xiii-p14.6
  85. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=12&scrV=20#xiii-p14.7
  86. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=12&scrV=21#xiii-p14.8
  87. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=14&scrV=17#xxi-p18.1
  88. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=3&scrV=16#xix-p31.1
  89. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=4&scrV=20#xxi-p18.2
  90. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=2&scrV=0#iv-p25.2
  91. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=5&scrV=18#vii-p22.1
  92. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=5&scrV=19#vii-p22.2
  93. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=6&scrV=17#vii-p25.1
  94. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=6&scrV=18#vii-p25.2
  95. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=12&scrV=7#xxii-p46.1
  96. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Gal&scrCh=5&scrV=6#vii-p23.1
  97. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Eph&scrCh=2&scrV=6#xiii-p11.1
  98. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Eph&scrCh=2&scrV=6#xxii-p12.1
  99. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Eph&scrCh=2&scrV=10#iii-p23.1
 100. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Eph&scrCh=4&scrV=29#xiii-p14.5
 101. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Eph&scrCh=4&scrV=32#xiii-p14.11
 102. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Eph&scrCh=6&scrV=12#xiii-p11.2
 103. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Phil&scrCh=2&scrV=13#vii-p25.3
 104. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Phil&scrCh=3&scrV=7#xxii-p44.1
 105. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Phil&scrCh=4&scrV=6#xiii-p14.18
 106. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Phil&scrCh=4&scrV=7#xiii-p14.19
 107. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=1Tim&scrCh=2&scrV=9#xiii-p14.3
 108. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=1Tim&scrCh=2&scrV=10#xiii-p14.4
 109. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=3&scrV=5#x-p22.1
 110. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=3&scrV=6#x-p22.2
 111. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=8&scrV=6#xii-p7.1
 112. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=10&scrV=22#vii-p26.1
 113. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=10&scrV=23#vii-p26.2
 114. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=12&scrV=5#xxii-p14.1
 115. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=13&scrV=21#vii-p28.1
 116. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Jas&scrCh=1&scrV=5#xiii-p3.4
 117. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Jas&scrCh=1&scrV=6#xiii-p3.5
 118. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Jas&scrCh=1&scrV=6#xiii-p3.6
 119. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Jas&scrCh=1&scrV=7#xiii-p3.7
 120. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Jas&scrCh=4&scrV=4#xiii-p14.16
 121. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=1Pet&scrCh=2&scrV=19#xiii-p14.10
 122. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=1Pet&scrCh=3&scrV=3#xiii-p14.1
 123. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=1Pet&scrCh=3&scrV=4#xiii-p14.2
 124. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=2Pet&scrCh=3&scrV=18#xi-p4.1
 125. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=1John&scrCh=1&scrV=9#xv-p11.1
 126. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=1John&scrCh=1&scrV=9#xv-p14.1
 127. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=1John&scrCh=2&scrV=15#xiii-p14.15
 128. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=1John&scrCh=5&scrV=14#vii-p14.1
 129. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=1John&scrCh=5&scrV=15#vii-p14.2
 130. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=1&scrV=5#xxi-p21.1
 131. file:///ccel/s/smith_hw/secret/cache/secret.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=1&scrV=6#xxi-p21.2
