HEAVEN ON EARTH. 



NOTE. 

* Heaven on Earth,' originally published in 1654, passed into a ''second edition, cor- 
rected and enlarged,' in 1667. It is from the latter, collated with the former, our text is 
taken. The title-page will be found below.* Another bears the date of 1864 ; and ever 
since this hats been one of the most prized of Brooks's hooka. The quaint ' Licence' by 
Caryl, for publication, is subjoined.f 

♦HEAVEN 

ON 

EARTH. 
OR 

A Serious Discourse touching a 

well-grounded 

Assurance 

Of Men's Everlasting Soppiness and 
Blessedness. 

Discovering the Nature of Assurance, the possibi- 
lity of Attaining it, the Causes, Springs, and 
Degrees of it ; with the Resolution 
of severall weighty Questions. 

By Thomas Brooks, Preacher of the 
Gospel at Margarets Fishstreet-Hill. 

The Second Edition Corrected and Enlarged. 

That their hearts might be comforted, being knit together in 
love, and unto all Riches of the full Assurance of under- 
standing, Col. 2. 2. 

Qui fidei subb sensum in corde habet, hie scit Christum 
Jesum in se esse. Ambros. 2 ad Corinth c. 13. 5. 

LONDON; Printed by M S. for John Hancock, 

and are to be sold at the first shop in Popes- 

head Alley, in Cornhill. 1667. 



t The greatest thing that we can desire — next to the glory of God — is our own salva- 
tion ; and the sweetest thing we can desire, is the assurance of our salvation. In this 
life we cannot get higher, than to be assured of that which in the next life is to be 
enjoyed. All saints shall enjoy a heaven when they leave this earth ; some saints enjoy 
a heaven while they are here on earth. That saints might enjoy two heavens, is the 
project of this book. That this project may be published, and by a blessing from th© 
third heaven prospered, the book is licensed by Joseph Caeyl.' 

The ninth of the first month, commonly called March, 1653. 

* The Tenerable and learned expositor of the book of Job. He died 1678. — G. 



EPISTLE DEDICATORY. 



To the Right Honourable the Generals of the Fleets of the Common- 
wealth of England, and to those gallant worthies, my touch ho- 
noured friends, who with the noble generals have deeply jeoparded 
their lives unto many deaths upon the seas, out of love to their 
country's good, and out of respect to the interest of Christ, and the 
faithful people of this commonwealth, such honour and happiness 
as is promised to all that love and honour the Lord Jeaus. 

REaiowNED Sirs, 

The better anything is, the more communicative it will be ; for 
honuTTh est sui communicativum. There are two sorts of goods ; there 
are bona throni, and there are bona scabelli: goods of the throne, as 
God, Christ, grace, assurance, &c. ; and goods of the footstool, as honour, 
riches, &c.* A. man may have enough of the goods of the footstool to 
sink him, but he can never have enough to satisfy him.^ Man's happi- 
ness and blessedness, his felicity and glory, lies in his possessing the 
goods of the throne, which that you may, I humbly desire you seriously 
to view over the ensuing treatise. 

It was an excellent saying of Lewis of Bavyer [Bavaria ?] emperor of 
Germany, HujusTnodi comparandce 8unt opes, quce cum naufragio 
simul enatent ; Such goods are worth getting and owning, as will not 
sink nor wash away, if a shipwreck happen, but will wade and swim 
out with us. Such are the goods that are here presented in this follow- 
ing discourse. In all storms, tempests, and shipwrecks, they will abide 
with the soul, they will walk and lie down with the soul, yea, they will 
go to the grave, to heaven, with the soul : they will in the greatest 
storms be an ark to the souL 

I have observed in some terrible storms that I have been in, that the 
mariners* and the passengers' want of assurance, and of those other 
pearls of price that in this treatise are presented to public view, hath 
caused their countenance to change, their hearts to melt ; it hath made 
them to ' stagger and reel to and fro like drunken men, like men at 
their wits* ends,' vide Ps. Ixxvi 6 ; whereas others that have had assu- 

' Cf. ' Precions Remedies,' VoL I. page 1. The saying is from Angustine. — Q. 
• Nihil bonum sine sutnmo bono, Aug[ustine], Nothing is good, without the chiefest 
good Omne bonum in tummo bono, All good is in the chiefest good. 



304 HEAVEN ON EARTH. 

ranee, and their pardon in their bosoms, &c., have bore up bravely, and 
slept quietly, and walked cheerfully, and practically have said, as Alex- 
ander once did, when he was in a great danger, ' Now,' saith he, ' here 
is a danger fit for the spirit of Alexander to encounter withal.' So they 
now, here are storms and dangers fit for assured, pardoned soids to en- 
counter withal, &c.^ 

Gentlemen, This following discourse I do not present to you as a 
thing that needs your protection, for Veritas stat in aperto campo, 
truth stands in the open fields, and it will make the lovers of it to stand, 
triumph, and overcome. Magna est Veritas et prevalehit,gresit is truth, 
and shall prevail. But, upon these following grounds, I render it 
to you : 

First, You have honoured the Almighty, by helping him against the 
high and mighty ; and he hath honoured you, by owning of you, by 
standing by you, by acting for you, and by making of you prosperous 
and victorious over a near enemy, a powerful enemy, an enraged enemy, 
a resolved enemy, a subtle enemy, a prepared enemy, a lofty enemy ; 
and therefore I cannot but desire to honour you by dedicating the fol- 
lowing treatise to the service of your souls, 1 Sam. ii. 30.^ 

Secondly, Because you are my friends, and that cordial love and 
friendship which I have found from you hath stamped in my affections 
a very high valuation of you. 

The ancients painted friendship a fair young man bare-headed, in 
a poor garment, at the bottom whereof was written life and death, in 
the upper part summer and winter ; his bosom was open, so that his 
heart might be seen, whereupon was written longe, prope, a friend at 
hand and afar off. Verily, your undeserved love and respects have 
made me willing to open my bosom to you in this epistle, and in the 
following treatise, as to friends that T love and honour.^ 

When one came to Alexander, and desired him that he might see his 
treasure, he bid one of his servants take him, and shew him, not a^yu^iou 
ToOXavTu, his money, but rovg ^IXcug, his friends. It seems he put a higher 
value upon them than he did upon all the wealth which he had. Faith- 
ful friends are an invaluable treasure, and the rarity of them doth much 
enhance the price of them.* 

Thirdly, Because of its exceeding usefulness and suitableness to 
your conditions. 

I have been some years at sea, and through grace I can say, that I 
would not exchange my sea-experiences for England's riches. I am not 
altogether ignorant of the troubles, trials, temptations, dangers, and 
deaths that do attend you.* And therefore I have been the more 
stirred in my spirit to present the following discourse to you, wherein 

> A philosopher could say, in danger of shipwreck in a light starry night, ' Surely I 
ehall not perish, there are so many eyes of Providence over me.' — [Plato in the famous 
verses. — G ] But these had neither so much faith nor courage ; these men of might had 
lost their hands and hearts. 

* As it was said of Csesar. that while he restored the statue of Pompey he estahlisbed 
his own ; so while men honour God, they preserve their own. 

^ Magnet amoris, amor, Love is the loadstone of love ; and therefore he said right, Si vit 
amari, ama. If thou wilt love, thou shalt be loved. 

* Socrates preferred the king's countenance above his coin. 

^ Ps. cvii. 24. It is between Christian and Christian, as between two lute strings that 
are tuned one to another ; no sooner one is struck, but the other trembles. 



EPISTLE DEDICATORY. 305 

is discovered the nature of assurance, the possibility of attaining assur- 
ance, the causes, springs, degrees, excellencies, and properties of assur- 
ance ; also the special seasons and times of God's giving assurance, 
with the resolutions of several weighty questions touching assurance. 
Further, in this treatise, as in a glass, you may see these ten special 
things clearly and fully opened and manifested. 

1. What knowledge that is that accompanies salvation. 

2. What faith that is that accompanies salvation. 

; 3. What repentance that is that accompanies salvation. 

4. What obedience that is that accompanies salvation. 

5. What love that is that accompanies salvation. 

6. What prayer that is that accompanies salvation. 

7. What perseverance that is that accompanies salvation. 

8. What hope that is that accompanies salvation. 

9. The difference between true assurance, and that which is coun- 
terfeit. 

10. The wide difference there is between the witness of the Spirit, 
and the hissing of the old serpent. 

Gentlemen and Friends, You have your lives in your hands, there is 
but a short step between you and eternity.^ I would fain have you all 
happy for ever ; to that purpose, I humbly beseech you, spare so much 
time, from your many great and weighty occasions, as to read this trea- 
tise, that in all humility I lay at your feet, and follow this counsel that 
in all love and faithfulness I shall now give unto you. For my design in 
all is your happiness here, and your blessedness hereafter. 

First, Get and keep communion with God. Your strength to stand, 
and your strength to withstand all assaults, is from your communion 
with God. Communion with God is that that will make you stand fast, 
and triumph over all enemies, difficulties, dangers, and deaths.^ 

While Samson kept his communion with God, no enemy could stand 
before him, he goes on conquering and to conquer, he lays heaps upon 
heaps ; but when he has fallen in his communion with God, he falls 
presently, easily, and sadly before his enemies. 

So long as David kept up his communion with God, no enemies 
could stand before him ; but when he was fallen in his communion with 
God, he flies before the son of his bowels. 

Job keeps up his communion with God, and conquers Satan upon the 
dunghill. Adam loses his communion with God, and falls before Satan 
in paradise. Communion is the result of union. Communion is a re- 
ciprocal exchange between Christ and a gracious soul. Communion is 
Jacob's ladder, where you have Christ sweetly descending down into 
the soul, and the soul by divine influences sweetly ascending up to 

' Say, with that famous painter Zeiixis, ^ternitati pingo, I paint for eternity, I provide 
for eternity. Eternity is that uniim perpetuum hodie, that one perpetual to-day. [Index : 
Zeuxis. — G.] 

* Commuuion with God will make a man as courageous and bold as a lion, yea, as a 
young lion that is in his hot blood, and fearless of any creature, Prov. xxviii. 1, "TiDSD. 
Now the proverb is, Tuticfres cervi duce leone, quam leoncs duce cervo, It is more likely that 
harts will get victory with a lion to their leader, than lions with a leading hart. Joshua, 
captain of the Lord's battles, must be of a lion-like courage, and what will make them so, 
but communion with God? It was the saying of the old Earl of Essex, that he was 
never afraid to fight but when he was conscious of some sin with which he had provoked 
God and lost communion with God. 

VOL. IL TJ 



306 HEAVEN ON EARTH. 

Christ. Communion with God is a shield upon land, and an anchor at 
sea ; it is a sword to defend you, and a staff to support you ; it is balm 
to heal you, and a cordial to strengthen you. High communion with 
Christ will yield you two heavens, a heaven upon earth, and a heaven 
after death. He enjoys nothing that wants communion with God ; he 
wants nothing that enjoys communion with God ; therefore above all 
gettings get communion with Christ, and above all keepings keep com- 
munion with Christ. All other losses are not comparable to the loss of 
communion with Christ. He that hath lost his communion, hath lost 
his comfort, his strength, his all, and it will not be long before the Phi- 
listines take him, and put out his eyes, and bind him with fetters of 
brass, and make him grind in a prison, as they did Samson, Judges xvi. 
20, 21. 

Secondly, Make a speedy and a thorough improvement of all op- 
portunities of grace and m,ercy} Sleep not in harvest-time, trifle not 
away your market-hours, your golden seasons ; you have much work to 
do in a short time ; you have a God to honour, a Christ to rest on, a 
race to run, a crown to win, a hell to escape, a heaven to obtain.* You 
have weak graces to strengthen, strong corruptions to weaken ; you 
have many temptations to withstand, and afflictions to bear ; you have 
many mercies to improve, and many services to perform, &c. There- 
fore take hold on all opportunities and advantages, whereby you may 
be strengthened and bettered in your noble part. Take heed of crying 
Cras, eras, To-morrow, to-morrow, when God saith : ' To-day, if you will 
hear my voice, harden not your hearts,' Heb. iii. 7, 8.^ Manna must be 
gathered in the morning, and the orient pearl is generated of the morn- 
ing dew. It is a very sad thing for a man to begin to die before he 
begins to live. He that neglects a golden opportunity, doth but create 
to himself a great deal of misery, as Saul, and many others, have found 
by sad experience. He that would to the purpose do a good action, 
must not neglect his season. 

The men of Issachar were famous in David's account for wisdom, 
because they acted seasonably and opportunely, 1 Chron. xii. 32. God 
will repute and write that man a wise man, who knows and observes 
his seasons of doing. Such there have been, who by giving a glass of 
water opportunely, have obtained a kingdom, as you may see in the 
story of Thaumastus and king Agrippa. 

Time, saith one, were a good commodity in hell, and the traific of it 
most gainful, where for one day a man would give ten thousand worlds 
if he had them {Bernard)} 

One passing through the streets of Rome, and seeing many of the 
women playing and delighting themselves with monkeys and baboons, 
and such like things, asked * whether they had no children to play and 
delight themselves with X So when men trifle away their precious 
time, and golden opportunities, playing and toying with this vanity and 

' Bonus servatus facit bonum bene factum, 

* Petrarch telleth of one who, being invited to dinner next flay, answered, Effo d multis 
annit crattinum non habtii, I have not had a morrow for this many years. 

* A man, saith Luther, lives forty years before he knows himself a fool, and by that 
time he sees his folly his life is ended, &c. 

* It was the commendations of the blessed Hooper, that he was spare of diet, sparer of 
words, and sparest of time. 



I 



EPISTLE DEDICATORY. 307 

that, we may ask whether these men have no God, no Christ, no Scrip- 
ture, no promises, no blessed experiences, no hopes of heaven's glories to 
delight and entertain themselves with? Certainly, we should not 
reckon any time into the account of our lives, but that which we care- 
fully pass, and well spend, seeing the heathen could say, Diu fuit, n(y)i 
diu vixit. He was long, he did not live long {Damascene). 

I have read of one Barlaam, who, being asked how old he was, an- 
swered, Five-and-forty years old ; to whom Josaphah replied, * Thou 
seemest to be seventy.' ' Truth,' saith he, ' if you reckon ever since I 
was born ; but I count not those years that were spent in vanity.*^ 

Most men spend the greatest part of their time about things that are 
by the by, that are of little or no value ; as Domitian, the Roman em- 
peror, spent his time in stabbing of flies, and Artaxerxes spent his time 
in making hafts for knives, and Solyman the great Turk spent his time 
in making of notches of horn for bows, and Archimedes spent his time 
in drawing lines on the ground when that famous city Syracuse was 
taken, and Myrmecides spent more time to make a bee than some men 
do to build a house.* 

Sirs, I beseech you remember that it was Cato, a heathen, that said 
' that account must be given not only of our labour, but also of our 
leisure.'^ And in affirming this, he affirms no more than what the Scrip- 
ture speaks. But oh what a sad account, then, have some to make ! 
Well, as Cleopatra said to Mark Antony, ' It is not for you to be fish- 
ing for gudgeons, but for towns, forts, and castles ;' so say I, Right 
honourable and beloved, it is not for you to spend your time about 
poor, low, contemptible things, but about those high and noble things 
that make most for the interest of Christ and the good of your country.* 

It was Titus, a pagan emperor, that uttered this memorable and 
praiseworthy apophthegm, Amici, diem perdidi, My friends, I have 
lost a day, when he had spent it in company, without doing good. 

The Egyptians drew the picture of time with three heads, to repre- 
sent the three differences. The first of a greedy wolf, gaping for time 
past, because it hath ravenously devoured even the memory of so many 
things past recalling ; the second of a crowned lion, roaring for time 
present, because it hath the principality of all action, for which it calls 
aloud. The third of a deceitful dog, fawning for time to come, because 
it feeds fond men with many flattering hopes, to their own undoing. 

I have read of a man who upon his dying bed would have given a 
world for time, he still crying out day and night, ' Call time again, call 
time again.' So a great lady" of this land on her death-bed cried out, 
* Time, time, a world of wealth for an inch of time.'* 

One Hermanns, a great courtier in the kingdom of Bohemia, being 
at point of death, did most lamentably cry out ' that he had spent more 
time in the palace than in the temple, and that he had added to the 

' Blessed Bradford the martyr counted that hour lost wherein he did not some good 
with his tongue, pen, or purse. * See references before : Index.— G. 

' Chile, one of the seven sages, being asked what was the hardest thing in the world 
to be done, answered, To use and employ a man's time well. 

* Alexander the Great gave him a check and not a reward, that boasted that he could 
thi-ow pease at a great distance upon the point of a needle. Ah ! how will God at last 
check those that spend their precious time, as it were, with throwing pease upon the 
point of a needle ! * Queen Elizabeth. — G. 



oOS HEAVEN ON EARTH. 

riotousness and vices of the court, which he should have sought to have 
reformed,' and so died, to the horror of those that were about him.^ 

I have been the longer upon this, because I have been a sad spec- 
tator of men's misspending their time and trifling away golden oppor- 
tunities, at sea as well as at land ; and though I thus speak (knowing 
that this treatise will come into other hands beside your own), yet ' I 
hope better things of you,' to whom I dedicate it, ' even such as do 
accompany salvation,' Heb. vi. 9. 

Thirdly, Take no truths upon trust, but all npon trial : 1 John iv. 1, 
' Beloved, believe not every spirit, but try the spirits whether they be 
of God ; because many false prophets are gone out into the world.'* 
This age is very full of impostors ; therefore try the spirits, as lapidaries 
do their stones, or as goldsmiths do their metals. A Bristol-stone may 
look as well as an Indian diamond, and many things glister besides gold. 

It was the glorious commendations of the Bereans, ' that they searched 
the Scriptures daily/ whether those things that Paul and Silas had 
delivered ' were so ;' and this act of theirs made them ' more noble than 
those of Thessalonica,' Acts xvii. 10, 11.' Christian nobility is the best 
and truest, where God himself is the top of the kin, and rehgion the 
root ; in regard whereof all other things are but shadows and shapes of 
nobleness. ■ 

A father that had three sons was desirous to try their discretions, 
which he did by giving to each of them an apple that had some part 
of it rotten. The first eats up his, rotten and all ; the second throws 
all his away, because some part of it was rotten ; the third picks out 
the rotten, and eats that which was good. The third was the wisest. 
Some in these days swallow down everything, rotten and sound together ; 
others throw away all truth, because everything that is presented to 
them is not truth ; but surely they are the wisest that know how to 
choose the good and refuse the evil, Isa. vii. 15. 

You must not, with Pythagoras's scholars, magnify the i'pse diodt 
of the greatest clerks, especially in those things that are of eternal con- 
cernment to your souls. You will try, and tell, and weigh gold after 
your fathers ; deal so by the truth you hear, and let no man bind you 
to believe, with Anaxagoras, that snow is black. ' Truth,' saith Basil, 
' is hard to be taken by hunting, and must be found out by a narrow 
observing of her footsteps on every side.' Many are like those in 
Clemens, that thought truth to be cruelty.* 

Fourthly, Be exemplary to those among tvhom you walk, and over 
whom you command. Bonus dux, bonus comes, a good leader makes 
a good follower. Precepta docent, exennpla movent, precepts may in- 
struct, but examples do persuade. Verily, gentlemen, your examples 
will have a very great influence upon those that are under you. It is 
natural to inferiors to mind more what their superiors do than what 



' Lamacus, a commander, said to his offending soldiers, Non licet in hello hia peccare. 
No man must offend twice in war. So Qod sometimes will not suffer men again and 
again to neglect the day of grace. 

* 'ioKifiiaXiri. Satan may more easily disturb the truth than subvert it. — Avg\ustiru']. 
' tvyitie-rt^ai. Better-bom and bred, of a more noble disposition. They were more 

noble, not by civil descent, but by spiritual advancement. 

* Amictia Socrates, amicus Plato, amicior Veritas : Socrates is my friend, and Plato is mj 
friend, but, above all, truth is my friend. [A saying of Cicero. — G.J 



J 



EPISTLE DEDICATORY. 309 

they say ; therefore you had need be angelical in your walkings and 
actings. You are lights upon a hill, you are sea-marks, and therefore 
every eye will be upon you.* Those that can find no ears to hear what 
you say, will find many eyes to see what you do. Scripture and expe- 
rience do abundantly evidence that good men's examples have done a 
world of good in the world, and verily the evil examples of great men 
especially are very dangerous. 

Charles the Fifth was wont to say, that as the eclipse of the sun is a 
token of great commotions, so the errors and evils of great men bring 
with them great perturbations and evils to the places and persons 
where they live. Oh therefore, be exemplary both in lip and life, in 
word and work, that others ' seeing your good works, may glorify your 
Father which is in heaven,' Mat. v. 16. Oh look that your lives 
be as a commentary upon Christ's life. Tdce lingua, loquere vita; 
talk not of a good life, but let thy life speak, said the philosopher.'* 

Alexander willed that the Grecians and the Barbarians should no 
longer be distinguished by their garments, but by their manners ; so 
should Christians be distinguished from all others, by their lives and 
by their examples ; 2 Sam. xxiii. S, 'The God of Israel said, the Rock 
of Israel spake to me, He that ruleth over men must be just, ruling 
in the fear of the Lord.' An excellent lord is always better than an 
excellent law. Let your laws be never so good, if the law-makers are 
bad, all will come to nothing. The people's eyes are much upon that 
Scripture, ' Have any of the rulers believed on him V John vii. 48, &c. 
Abraham was an example of righteousness in Chaldea, Lot was just in 
Sodom, Daniel was an example of holiness in Babylon, Job was an 
example of uprightness in the land of Uz, which was a land of much 
profaneness and superstition, Nehemiah was an example of zeal in 
Damascus, and Moses was an example of meekness among the mutter- 
ing and murmuring Israelites. Above- all examples, Christ was ex- 
emplary in all piety and sanctity, in all righteousness and holiness, in 
the midst of a crooked and perverse generation. And why then should 
not you be exemplary among those poor creatures, those black angels, 
— I had almost said, — among whom you walk ? ^ 

It was the saying of Trajanus, a Spaniard, the first stranger that 
reigned among the Italians, qualis rex, talis grex, subjects prove good, 
by a good king's example. So do soldiers, so do sailors, by the good 
examples of their superior commanders. Such commanders as are 
examples of righteousness and holiness to others, are certainly high in 
worth, and humble in heart ; they are the glory of Christ, and the 
honour of religion. 

Fifthly, As you are in public places, so lay out yourselves impar- 
tially for the common good of all that have interest in you, or 
dependence upon you. So did Abraham, Moses, Joshua, Nehemiah, 

• The complaint of Seneca is ancient, that commonly men live not ad rationem, but eid 
aimilitudinem. — Seneca de vila beata. [Sea-marks = %A^ houses. Another Shakesperian 
word : Coriolanus, V. 3 ; Othello, V. 2.— G.] 

* Plutarch saith of Demosthenes, that he was excellent at praising the worthy acts of 
his ancestors, but not so at imitating them. You may easily apply it, 

? It was a good law that the Ephesians made, that men should propound to them- 
selves the best patterns, and ever bear in mind some eminent man. The Arabians, if 
their king be sick or lame, they all feigu themselves so. 



SIO HEAVEN ON EARTH. 

Ezra, Daniel, but above all, Christ himself. You are more for the 
people's sake, than the people are for yours.' Magistrates are rulers 
over the persons of the people, but they are servants to the good of the 
people ; as it is the duty of all to serve them, so it is their office to 
serve all It is no paradox to affirm, that rulers are the greatest ser- 
vants. The ancients were wont to place their statues of their princes 
by their fountains, intimating that they were, or at least should be, 
fountains of the public good. 

The counsellor saith, ' That a man in public place should give his 
will to God, his love to his master, his heart to his country, his secrets 
to his friends, his time to business.' It is a base and unworthy spirit, 
for a man to make himself the centre of all his actions. The very 
heathen man could say, ' A man's country, and his friends, and others, 
challenge a great part of him.' The sun, that is the prince of lights, 
doth impartially serve all, the peasant as well as the prince, the poor 
as well as the rich, the weak as well as the strong ; you must be like 
the sun.^ The Sun of righteousness was of a brave public spirit : he 
healed others, but was hurt himself ; he filled others, but was hungry 
himself; he laid out himself, and he laid down himself for a public 
good- * That pilot dies nobly,' saith Seneca, ' who perisheth in the 
storm with the helm in his hand.' It is really your praise among the 
saints, that you have ventured killing, burning, drowning, and all to 
save the ship of the common-wealth from sinking. 

Sirs ! Be not weary of public work. It is honour enough that God 
will make any use of you to carry on his design in the world. He is 
a faithful pay-master ; heaven at last will make amends for all. ' You 
shall reap, if you faint not,' Gal. vi. 9. I do verily believe, God will 
make use of you to do greater things on the sea, than yet have been 
done. The Lord hath now begun to set a foot upon the sea ; let his 
<inemies tremble. God will not suffer his glory to be buried in the 
deeps. He is shaking the nations, and will not leave shaking them, 
till He that is the desire of all nations come. The Lord hath said, 
' That he will overturn, overturn, overturn, until he comes, whose right 
it is to wear the crown, and the diadem, and he will give it him,' Ezek. 
xxi. 25-27. Till then, there will be little else, but plucking up and break- 
ing down, Jer. xlv. 4. Therefore be courageous, and follow the Lamb 
wheresoever he goes. You need fear no enemies, that have Christ the 
conqueror on your sides. 

Sixthly, and lastly. Make it more and more your chiefest woi^k to 
"make plentiful proimions for the eternal ivelfare of your sovls. 
Your souls are more worth than ten thousand worlds. .All is well, if 
thy soul be well ; if that be safe, all is safe ; if that be lost, all is lost, 
God, Christ, and glory is lost, if the soul be lost^ 

Worthy sirs. Though others play the courtiers with their souls, yet 
do not you. The courtier doth all things late: he rises late, and dines 
late, and sups late, and repents late. 

' I have read of one that had rather beautify Italy, than his own h ouse. There is 
very little of this spirit abroad in the world. 

* So doth the sea feed and refresh the smallest fish, as well as the greatest leviathan ; 
the trees do shade and shelter from heat the least bird, as well as the greatest beast. 

' O anima Dei inaignita imagine, despontata fidei, donata tpirilu, &c., Bernard. 
divine soul, invested with the image of Qod, espoused to him by faith I 



EPISTLE DEDICATORY. 311 

Sirs ! Is it madness to feast the slave, and starve the wife ? and is 
it not greater madness to feast the body and starve the soul? to 
make liberal provision for the body, and none for the soul ? Do not 
they deserve double damnation, that prefer their bodies above their 
souls ? Methinks our souls should be like to a ship, which is made 
little and narrow downwards, but more wide and broad upwards. 
Before all, and above all, look to your souls, watch your souls, make 
provision for your souls. When this is done, all is done; till this is 
done, there is nothing done that will yield a man comfort in life, joy 
in death, and boldness before a judgment-seat.^ 

Callenuceus tells us of a nobleman of Naples, that was wont pro- 
fanely to say, ' He had two souls in his body, one for God, and another 
for whosoever would buy it.^ Verily, they will make but a bad bargain 
of it, that, to gain the world, shall sell their souls. 

Dear sirs, I had much more to say, but I am afraid that I have 
already kept you too long from sucking of the honeycomb, from 
drinking at the fountain. I have held you too long in the porch ; and 
therefore I shall only crave, that you will bear with my plainness, 
and overlook my weakness ; remembering that other addresses would 
savour more of flattery than of sincerity, more of policy than of piety, 
and would be both unlovely in me, and displeasing to you.^ 

Now the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ bless you and 
yours with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places, and make you yet 
more and more instrumental for his glory, and this nation's good, that 
your names may be for ever precious among his people, that they may 
bear you still upon their hearts before the Lord; which Ls, and shall be, 
the earnest and constant prayer of him who is, 

Right honourable and worthy Sirs, 

Yours in all Christian observance, 

Thomas Brooks. 

1 One of the chiefest mirrors to behold God in, is a reasonable soul, which finds itself 
out, saith one. 

* Had I a purse suitable to my heart, not a poor godly soldier or sailor in England, 
who carries his life in one hand, but should have one of these books in the other, &c. 



EPISTLE TO THE SAINTS. 



To all saints that hold to Christ the head, and that walk according to 
the laws of the new creature, grace, merc}'^, and peace be multi- 
plied from God the Father, though our Lord Jesus Clirist. 

Beloved in ouk Dearest Lord, 

You are those worthies * of whom this world is not worthy,' Heb. xi. 
38. You are the princes 'that prevail with God,' Gen. xxxii. 28. You 
are those 'excellent ones' in whom is all Christ's delight, Ps. xvi. 3. 
You are his glory. You are his picked, culled, prime instruments 
which he will make use of to carry on his best and greatest work against 
his worst and greatest enemies in these latter days. You are 'a seal' 
upon Christ's heart, you are ' engraven on the palms of his hand ;' your 
names are written upon his breasts, as the names of the children of 
Israel were upon Aaron's breastplate ; you are the ' epistle of Christ;' 
you are the ' anointed' of Christ ; you have ' the spirit of discerning ;' 
you have 'the mind of Christ.'' You have the greatest advantages 
and the choicest privileges to enable you to try truth, to taste truth, to 
apply truth, to defend truth, to strengthen truth, to uphold truth, and 
to improve truth.^ And therefore to whom should I dedicate this fol- 
lowing discourse, but to yourselves ? You have the next place to Christ 
in my heart; your good, your gain, your glory, your edification, your 
satisfaction, your confirmation, your consolation, j^our salvation, hath 
put me upon casting in my little, little mite into your treasure. 

Beloved, you know that in the time of the law, God did as kindly 
accept of goats' hair and badgers' skins, of turtle-doves and young 
pigeons — they being the best things that some of his children had then 
to offer — as he did accept of gold, jewels, silk, and purple from others. 

1 hope you will shew out the same God-like disposition towards me, in 
a kind accepting of what is offered in this treatise to your wise and 
serious consideration. I could wish it better for your sakes, yet such as 

' Isa. iv. 6 ; Rev. xvii. 14, and xix. 8, 14 ; Cant. viii. 6 ; Isa. xlix. 16 ; Exod. xxviii. 29 ; 

2 Cor. ii. 3 ; 1 John ii. 27; 1 Cor. i. 10, 12, 15, 16. 

* You will not, with Pythagoras his scholars, magnify the ip^e dixit of the greatest 
clerks; neither will you helieve with Anaxagoras, that snow is black: nor yet will you 
say, as Antipater, king of Macedonia did, when one presented him with a book treating 
of happiness, iu irxa>-aX,", I have no leisure ; neither will you judge like those that like 
nothing but the Minervas of their own brains. 



EPISTLE TO THE SAINTS. 313 

it is I do in all love and humility present you with, desiring the Lord 
to make it an internal and eternal advantage to you. 

I shall briefly acquaint you with the reasons that have moved poor 
me, unworthy I, — who am the least of all saints, who am not worthy to be 
reckoned among the saints, — to present this following discourse to public 
view ; and they are these that follow : 

First, To answer the desires, and gratify the earnest and pious re- 
quests of several precious souls, who long to have these things printed 
upon their hearts, by the hand of the Spirit, that are printed in this book. 
God speaks aloud through the serious and affectionate desires of the 
saints ; and this hath made me willing to echo to their desires. If 
great men's desires are to be looked upon as commands, why should 
good men's desires be looked upon with a squint eye ? Seneca, a hea- 
then, could say that ipse aspectus boni viri deledat, the very looks of 
a good man delight one. How much more then should the desires of a 
good man overcome one ?' 

Secondly, The good acceptance, the fair quarter that my labours of 
the like nature have found among those that fear the Lord, especially 
that treatise called ' Precious Remedies ajjainst Satan's Devices,'^ hath 
encouraged me to present this to public view, not doubting but that 
the Lord will bless it to the good of many, as I know he hath done the 
former. Wliich that he may, I shall not cease to pray, that my weak 
service may be accepted of the saints, and that their ' love may abound 
yet more and more in knowledge and in all sense,' Philip, i. 9-11.' That 
they may approve things that are excellent ; that they may be sincere, 
and without offence till the day of Christ ; being filled with the fruits 
of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ, unto the glory and praise of 
God. ^ 

Thirdly, It is exceeding useful to the saints at all times, but especially 
in changing times, in times wherein every one calls out, ' Watchman, what 
of the night? watchman, what of the night? and the watchman answereth. 
The morning Cometh, and also the night,' Isa. xxi. 11, 12. Ah! Christians, 
the Lord is a-shaking heaven and earth ; he is a-staining the pride of all 
glory ; he is a-staining his garments with the blood of his enemies ;* he 
is renting and tearing, he is burning and breaking, he is pulling up and 
throwing down, Jer. xlv. 4, 5. Now in the midst of all these concussions 
and revolutions, thrice happy are those souls that have gained a well- 
grounded assurance of celestial things, Heb. x. 34, Such souls will not 
faint, sink, nor shrink in an hour of temptation. Such souls will keep 
their garments pure and white, and will follow the Lamb wheresoever he 
goes, Kev. iii. 4, and xiv. 4. Assurance is a believer's ark, where he sits, 
Noah-like, quiet and still in the midst of all distractions and destruc- 
tions, combustions and confusions. They are doubly miserable that have 
neither heaven nor earth, temporals, nor eternals, made sure to them in 
changing times, Ps. xxiii. 3, 4, Rev. vi. 12. 

The fourth ground of my presenting this treatise to public view, is, 

1 The philosopher could say, that desires are properly v^ii ra kiayxavra., to what is 
necessary. 

* Them that are extant are sold by the same man that sells this, at the first shop 
in Pope's-head Alley, next to Cornhill. [See Vol. I. — G.] 

' aifHru, sense. 

* Joel iii. 16 ; Hag. ii. 6 ; Isa. xxiii. 9 ; Isa. Ixiii. 2, 8. 



314 HEAVEN ON EARTH. 

that little well-grounded assurance that is to be found among most 
Christians.^ Most Christians living between fears and hopes, and hang- 
ing, as it were, between heaven and hell, sometimes they hope that 
their state is good, at other times they fear that their state is bad : now 
they hope that all is well, and that it shall go well with them for ever ; 
anon they fear that they shall perish by the hand of such or such a 
corruption, or by the prevalency of such or such a temptation ; and so 
they are like a ship in a storm, tossed here and there, &c. Now that 
these weak souls may be strengthened, that these unstable souls may 
be established, that these disconsolate souls may be comforted, &c., I 
have presented this tract to the world, not doubting but that if the Lord 
shall draw out their spirits to a serious perusal of it, they shall find, 
through the blessing of Jehovah, that it will contribute very much to 
their attaining of a full assurance of their everlasting happiness and 
blessedness, as also to the keeping and maintaining of that full and 
blessed assurance ; which that it may, I shall follow it with my prayers. 

Fifthly, I have published this following discourse, remembering that 
my life is but a vanishing vapour, James iv. 14, and that the time of 
my sojourn in this world will be but short, Ps. xxxix. 12. Man's life is 
so short, that Austin doubteth whether to call it a dying life, or a living 
death. Man's life is but the shadow of smoke, the dream of a shadow. 
This present life is not vita, sed via ad vitam, life, but a motion, a 
journey towards life (Bernard.) The life of a Christian is rather via 
than vita, a step towards life, than life. Yet do I believe that that is 
not a death, but life, that joins the dying man to Christ ; and that is 
not a life, but death, that separates the living man from Christ. 

I know I shall not speak long to friends, saints, or sinners ; therefore 
T was the more willing to take the opportunity of preaching to you 
when I am dead. As Abel by his faith, he being dead, yet speaketh, 
Heb. xi. 4, so this treatise may speak and live, when I shall return to 
my long home, and fall asleep in the bosom of Christ." Christ his 
prophets and apostles, though they are now in heaven, yet by their 
doctrines, examples, and writings, they still preach to the saints on earth. 

Zisca desired his skin might serve the Bohemians in their wars, when 
his body could no more do it. Oh that poor I, that have been but a 
little serviceable to the saints in my life, might by this, and my former 
weak labours, be much serviceable to them after my death ! Books 
may preach, when the author cannot, when the author may not, when 
the author dares, yea, and which is more, when the author is, not' 

Sixthly, To testify my cordial love and atfection to all the true lovers 
of Christ, and to let them know that they are all, though under different 
forms, precious in my eyes, and very near and dear unto my heart. I 
bless God I am, and I desire more and more to be, one with every one 
that is one with Christ, Philip, iv. 21 ; Col. I 4 ; 2 Thess. i. 3. I would 
fain have as free, as large, and as sweet a heart towards saints, as Christ 
hath. For a wolf to worry a lamb is usual, but for a lamb to worry a 

' Every unsettled Christian is Magor-misaabib, a terror to himself, yea, his life is a 
very hell ; fears and doubts are his cbiefest companions, and so he judges himself unfit 
and unworthy to live, and yet he is afraid to die ; and verily this is the sad condition 
of most Christians. * Eccles. xii. 5 ; Acts vii. 60. 

' A reminiscence from Thomad Adams. See Index, sub nomine. — 6. 



I 



EPISTLE TO THE SAINTS. 315 

lamb is unnatural ; for Christ's lilies to be among thorns, is ordinary, 
but for these lilies to become thorns, to tear and fetch blood of one 
another, is monstrous and strange.^ Ah, Christians ! can Turks and 
Pagans agree ? can Herod and Pilate agree ? can Moab and Ammon 
agree ? can bears and lions, can wolves and tigers agree ? yea, which 
is more, can a legion of devils agree in one body ? and shall not the 
saints, whom heaven must hold at last, agree ? 

Pancirolus tells us, that the most precious pearl the Romans had, 
was called unio} Oh the union of saints is an un valuable pearl ! The 
heathen man, by the light of nature, could say, ' That the thickest wall 
of a city in peace, and the safest rampire^ in war, is unity. Verily all 
saints are one in Christ, all saints partake of the same spirit, promises, 
graces, and privileges. All saints are fellow-members, fellow-soldiers, 
fellow-travellers, fellow-heirs, fellow-sufferers, and fellow-citizens ; and 
therefore I cannot, dare not but love them all, and prize them all ; and to 
evidence it, I have dedicated this treatise to the service of their souls. 

Seventhly and lastly. To fence and fortify the souls of real, serious 
Christians against those brain-sick notions, and those airy speculations, 
and imaginary revelations, and enthusiastical fancies, &c., with which 
many are sadly deluded and deceived, even to their eternal overthrow, I 
had almost said. 

Thus have I given you a brief account of the reasons that have pre- 
vailed with me to publish this treatise to the world, and to dedicate it 
to yourselves.* Let your hearts dwell on truth, as the bee doth upon the 
flower ; every truth being a flower of paradise that is more worth than 
a world. 

Now the God of all grace fill your hearts and souls with all the fruits 
of righteousness and holiness, that you may attain unto a full assuranceof 
your everlasting happiness and blessedness ; which that you may is the 
sincere, earnest, and constant desire of him who is your soul's servant, 

Thomas Brooks. 

1 Mareellinus, a heathen historian, taxeth the Christians of his time for their dissen- 
sions, biting and devouring one another, till they were even consumed one of another : 
a sad thing that a heathen should see such miscarriages among Christ's followers. 

* Cap. vii. de Gemmis. [Pancirolus died 1599. — G] 

2 Rampart = defence. J 1 et another Shakesperian word : Timon of Athens, V. 5. — G. 

* I had not thought to have pressed into the press, had I not been soundly pressed there- 
unto. 



THE PREFACE, 

TOUCHING THE NATURE OF ASSURANCE. 



To be in a state of true grace, is to be miserable no more ; it is to be 
happy for ever. A soul in this state is a soul near and dear to God. 
It is a soul much beloved, and very highly valued of God. It is a soul 
housed in God. It is a soul safe in everlasting arms. It is a soul fully 
and eminently interested in all the highest and noblest privileges.^ The 
being in a state of grace makes a man's condition happy, safe, and sure ; 
but the seeing, the knowing of himself to be in such a state, is that 
which renders his life sweet and comfortable. The being in a state of 
grace will yield a man a heaven hereafter, but the seeing of himself in 
this state will yield him both a heaven here and a heaven hereafter ; 
it will render him doubly blest, blest in heaven, and blest in his own 
conscience.^ 

Now assurance is a reflex act of a gracious soul, whereby he clearly 
and evidently sees himself in a gracious, blessed, and happy state ; it is 
a sensible feeling, and an experimental discerning of -a man's being in 
a state of grace, and of his having a right to a crown of glory ; and this 
rises from the seeing in himself the special, peculiar, and distinguishing 
graces of Christ, in the light of the Spirit of Christ,' or from the testi- 
mony and report of the Spirit of God, ' the Spirit bearing witness with 
his spirit, that he is a son, and an heir-apparent to glory', Rom. viii. 
16, 17. 

It is one thing for me to have grace, it is another thing for me to see 
my grace ; it is one thing for me to believe, and another thing for me 
to believe that I do believe ; it is one thing for me to have faith, 
and another thing for me to know that I have faith. Now assurance 
flows from a clear, certain, evident knowledge that I have grace, and 
that I do believe, &c.* 

Now this assurance is the beauty and top' of a Christian's glory in 

> Ps. cxliv. 15 ; Mal.iii. 17 ; Rom. viii. 16, 17 : Deut. xxxiii. 26, 27 ; 1 Cor. iii. 22, 23. 

* A man may he God's, and yet not know it ; his estate may be good, and yet he not 
Bee it, Eph. i. 13 ; 1 -John v. 13 ; Gal. iv. 6. 

' A man cannot see the sun, but by the light of the sun. 

* It is one thing to be an heir, and another thing to know that one is an heir. The 
child in the womb or in the arms, may be an heir to a crown, and yet understands it not. 

* See Glossary, sub voce, — G. 



PREFACE. 317 

this life. It is usually attended with the strongest joy, with the 
sweetest comforts, and with the greatest peace. It is a pearl that most 
want, a crown that few wear. His state is safe and happy, whose soul 
is adorned with grace, though he sees it not, though he knows it not. 

Assurance is not of the essence of a Christian. It is required to the 
bene esse, to the well-being, to the comfortable and joyful being of a 
Christian ; but it is not required to the esse, to the being of a Christian. 
A man may be a true believer, and yet would give all the world, were 
it in his power, to know that he is a believer. To have grace, and to 
be sure that we have grace, is glory upon the throne, it is heaven on 
this side heaven. But more of these things you will find in the follow- 
ing discourse, to which I refer you. 



A SERIOUS DISOOPRSE, TOUCflmG A WELL- 
GROUNDED ASSURANCE. 



CHAPTER I. 



Shewing that believers may in this life attain unto a well-grounded 
assurance of their everlasting happiness and blessedness. 

First, The ground on which the apostle Paul builds his assurance, 
is not any special revelation, but such a foundation as is common to 
all believers, as clearly appears from 

Rom. viii. 32-34, He that spared not his own Son, but delivered him 
up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things ? 
Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect ? It is God that 
justifleth ; who is he that conderaneth ? It is Christ that died,' yea 
rather, that is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who 
also maketh intercession for us. 

It is clear from these words, that this blessed apostle had not that 
glorious assurance that he speaks of in the two last verses of this chapter 
by immediate revelation,* for he concludes it from such arguments as 
are general or common to all the godly; and therefore it roundly 
follows, 

First, That believers may in this life attain unto a well-grounded 
assurance of their everlasting happiness and blessedness. So Heze- 
kiah's assurance did spring from a principle that is common to all be- 
lievers, 2 Kings XX. 3. Ergo, — 

tSecondly, It is the vei^ scope and end of the Scripture to help be- 
lievers to a well-grounded assurance of their everlasting happiness 
and blessed/ness. ' These things,' saith John, ' have I written unto you . 
that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that ye 
have eternal life,' 1 John v. 13. These precious souls did believe, and 
they had eternal life, in respect of the promise of eternal life, Titus i. 2, 
and in respect of Christ their head, who had taken up their rooms 

' Immediate revelations are fleeting and inconstant ; and therefore men had need he 
careful how they huild upon them. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 319 

aforehand in heaven, and who as a public person doth represent all his 
people, Eph. ii. 6 ; and they had eternal life in respect of the begin- 
nings of it ; for what is grace but glory begun ? and what is glory but 
grace perfected ? Grace is glory in the bud, and glory is grace at the 
full. Now, though they had eternal life in aJl these respects, yet they 
did not know it ; though they did believe, yet they did not believe that 
they did believe ; therefore the apostle, in those precious epistles of his, 
doth make it his business, by variety and plenty of arguments, to help 
all, but especially such as are weak in the faith, to a well-grounded as- 
surance of their eternal welfare.' 

It is the very drift and design of the whole Scripture, to bring souls 
first to an acquaintance with Christ, and then to an acceptance of Christ, 
and then to build them up in a sweet assurance of their actual interest 
in Chiist : which made Luther to say, ' That he would not live in para- 
dise, if he might, without the word, but with the word he could Hve in 
hell itself.'* No histories are comparable to the histories of the Scrip- 
ture for, 

1, Antiquity; 2, rarity; 3, variety; 4, brevity; 5, perspicuity; 6, 
harmony ; 7, verity. 

The word evidences truth, it evinces falsehood ; it fights against folly, 
it opens the bowels- of mercy, and it assures believing souls of eternal 
felicity. That is a precious word in Heb. vi. 18.^ God hath given us 
his word, his oath, his seal, that our consolation may be strong, and that 
our salvation may be sure. Now, what comfort can a believer have 
without assurance ? It is the assurance of my interest in the land of 
Canaan, in gospel- cordials, in precious promises, and in a precious 
Christ, that comforts and delights my soul. It is not enough to raise 
strong consolation in my soul, barely to know that there are mines of 
gold, mountains of pearl, heaps of treasures, a land flowing with milk 
and honey, but it is the knowledge of my interest in these that raises 
joy in my soul. To know that there are such things, and that I have 
no interest in them, is rather a vexation than a consolation to me ; to 
know that there is a feast of choicest delicates, but not a taste for me ; 
that there are pleasant fountains and streams, but I must perish for 
thirst in a wilderness ; to know that there are royal robes for such and 
such, but I must die in my rags ; to know that there is a pardon for 
such and such, but I must be turned off the ladder of hfe ; to know 
that there is preferment for such and such, but I must still lie with 
Lazarus at Dives' door ; such knowledge as this may well add to my 
vexation, but it will not add to my consolation.* 

It was rather matter of sorrow than joy to the men of the old world, 
to know that there was an ark, when they were shut out; and to the 
Israelites, to know that there was a brazen serpent set up, whereby 
others were cured, when they died with the stinging of the fiery ser- 

* Sorely glory is nothing else but a bright constellation of graces; happiness is no- 
thing but the quintesence of holiness. 

* Gregory calls the Scripture, cor et animam Dei, the heart and soul of God. Adoro 
plenitudinem Scripturarum, I adore the fulness of the Scripture — Tertullian. [For Gre- 
gory of Nazianzum, see Oratio Secunda, Sec. cv. ; Tertullian, Apolog., et alibi. — G.l 

^ 48surance produces such strong consolations, as swallows up all worldly grieu. As 
Moses' serpent did the sorcerers' serpents, or as the fire doth the fuel. 

* Non in bonorum cognitione, ted fruitione. 



320 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [RoM. VIII. 32-34. 

pents.^ So how can it comfort me to know that there is peace in Christ, 
and pardon in Christ, and righteousness in Christ, and riches in Christ, 
and happiness in Christ, &c., for others, but none for me ! Ah, this 
knowledge will rather be a hell to torment me than a ground of joy and 
comfort to me. But now God hath in the Scripture discovered who 
they are that shall be eternally happy, and how they may reach to an 
assurance of their felicity and glory ; which made one [Luther] to say, 
' That he would not take all the world for one leaf of the Bible.'^ The 
Bible is a Christian's magna charta, his chief evidence for heaven. 
Men highly prize, and carefully keep their charters, privileges, convey- 
ances, and assurances of their lands ; and shall not the saints much more 
highly prize, and carefully keep in the closet of their hearts, the pre- 
cious word of God, which is to them instead of all assurances for their 
maintenance, deliverance, protection, confirmation, consolation, and 
eternal salvation.* 

Thirdly, Other believers have in an ordinary way attained to a 
sweet assurance of their everlasting happiness and blessedness. ' We 
know,' saith the apostle, in the name of the saints, ' that, if our earthly 
house of this tabernacle were dissolved, we have a building of God, an 
house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. For in this we 
groan, earnestly desiring to be clothed upon with our house which is 
from heaven,' 2 Cor. v. 1, 2.* Their assurance sets them in triumph 
upon the throne. We have a house, a house above, a house in heaven, 
a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. We have a 
house, a heavenly house, a house made by the greatest wisdom and 
the highest love; a house, that for honour, pleasures, riches, safety, 
stability, glory, and perpetuity, transcends all the royal palaces in 
the world. It is a house ' not made with hands, but eternal in the 
heavens.' 

So the church : Solomon's Song ii. 16, ' My beloved is mine, and I 
am his.' I know, says the spouse, that Jesus Christ is mine. I can 
with the greatest confidence and boldness affirm it : he is my head, my 
husband, my Lord, my Redeemer, my Justifier, my' Saviour ; * and I am 
his. I am as sure that I am his, as I am sure that I live. I am his by 
purchase, and I am his by conquest ; I am his by donation, and I am 
his by election ; I am his by covenant, and I am his by marriage. I am 
wholly his ; I am peculiarly his ; I am universally his ; I am eternally 
his. This I well know, and the knowledge thereof is my joy in life, and 
my strength and crown in death.' So the church : Isa. Ixiii. 16, ' Doubt- 
less thou art our father, though Abraham be ignorant of us, and Israel 
acknowledge us not. Thou, Lord, art our Father, and our Redeemer, 

' Spira cried out, Christ is to me a grief, a torment, becatise I despised him, I rejected 
him, and I have no part in him. [The 'Life' and 'fearful death' of Spira, is a chap- 
book to this day. Cf Sibbes's Works, toI. iii. p. 533, note qq. — G.] 

* This, like most of Brooks's sayings of Luther, is a reminiscence from that favourite 
Puritan folio. Captain Bell's ' CoUoquia Mensalia,' 1652. This reference may serve once for 
all.— G. 

» Ps. cxix. 11 and 72 compared. 

* Nee Christus nee caelum paiitur hyperholem, neither Christ nor heaven can be hyper- 
bolised. 

6 Eph. i. 22, 23; 1 Cor. i, 30, vi. 20; Ps. ex. 3; John x. 29, xv. 16; Ezek, xvi. 8; 
Hob. ii. 19, 20. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34] heaven on earth. 321 

thy name is from everlasting.'* David could say, 'The Lord is my 
portion for ever,' Ps. Ixxiii. 25, 26 ; and at another time he could 
sweetly sing it out, ' I am thine, save me •' Ps. cxix. 94. Job could 
look through the darkest cloud, and see that his Redeemer lives, Job 
xix. 25. Thomas cries out, * My Lord, and my God ! ' John xx. 28. 
And Paul trumpets it out, ' That nothing should separate him from 
the love of Christ,' Rom. viii. 38, 39 ; and that he had ' fought a good 
fight, and finished his course ; and that there was laid up for him a 
crown of righteousness,' 2 Tim. iv. 7, 8. 

By what hath been said, it clearly appears that other believers have 
obtained assurance in an ordinary way, and therefore believers now may 
attain to a sweet assurance of their everlasting happiness and blessed- 
ness.^ Certainly, God is as loving, and his bowels of compassion are as 
strong towards believers now, as ever they were to believers of old ; and 
it makes as much for the honour of God, the lifting up of Christ, the 
stopping of the mouths of the wicked, and the rejoicing of the hearts of 
the righteous, for God to give assurance now, as it did for God to give 
it then.' 

Fourthly, God hath hy promise engaged himself to assure his people 
of their happiness and blessedness. ' The Lord will give grace and 
glory, and no good thing will he withhold from them that walk up- 
rightly,' Ps. Ixxxiv. 11. If he will withhold no good thing, then cer- 
tainly he will not always withhold assurance, which is the great good 
thing, the only thing, the chiefest thing, the peculiar thing that be- 
lievers seek after. So Ezek. xxxiv. 30, 31, ' Thus shall they know that 
I the Lord their God am with them, and that they, even the house of 
Israel, are my people, saith the Lord God. And ye my flock, the flock 
of my pasture, are men, and I am your God, saith the Lord God.' So 
John xiv. 21, 23, * He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, 
he it is that loveth me ; and he that loveth me shall be loved of my 
Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him.' ' If any 
man love me,' saith Christ, ' he will keep my words : and my Father 
will love him, and we will come unto him, and make our abode with 
him.' Now hath the Lord spoken it, and shall it not come to pass ? 
Men say and unsay, they eat their words as soon as they have spoken 
them, but will God do so ? Surely no, he is faithful that hath promised,* 
' All the promises of God in him are yea, and in him amen,' 2 Cor. i. 
20 ; that is, they are stable and firm, and shall really be made good. 
The promises are a precious book, every leaf drops myrrh and mercy, 
therefore sit down and suck at these breasts, warm thyself at this fire.* 
God hath been always as good as his word, yea, he hath sometimes 

• Vide Calvin. 

• Qtiicquid fieri potuit, potest, that which hath been done may be done. 

' Heb. xiii. 8 ; Rev, i. 8, 11. Plato, a heathen, saith that God is one and the same, 
and always like himself. [See Grote's ' Plato and hia Friends,' and Index under Grote. 

• Antiochus promised often, but seldom gave ; but God gives as much, and as often as 
he promiseth. He hath a king's heart, as well as a king's purse. Nil Deo difficile, 
there is nothing hard for God. TuUy, a heathen , frequently called God Optimum maximum, 
the best and greatest. Plato called God, the horn of plenty, and the ocean of beauty, 
without the least spot of injustice. [As supra. — G.] 

' }a&. Ixiv. 4 ; 1 Cor. ii. 9 ; Ps. xxi. 3 ; Isa. Ixt. 24. 
VOL. II. X 



322 HEAVEN ON EARTfi. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

been better than his word ; he hath ever performed, and he hath over 
performed. He promised the children of Israel only the land of Canaan, 
but he gave them, besides the whole land of Canaan, two other king- 
doms which he never promised. Ah ! how often hath God prevented 
us with his blessings, and hath given us in such mercies as have been as 
far beyond our hopes as our deserts. How hath God, in these days of 
darkness and blood, gone beyond the prayers, desires, hopes, and con- 
fidences of his people in this land, and beyond what we could read in 
the book of the promises.^ Satan promises the best, but pays with the 
worst : he promises honour and pays with disgrace, he promises pleasure 
and pays with pain, he promises profit and pays with loss, he promises 
life and pays with death ; but God pays as he promises, all his pay- 
ments are made in pure gold ; therefore take these promises wherein 
God hath engaged himself to assure thee of his love, and spread them 
before the Lord, and tell him that it makes as well for his honour as 
thy comfort, for his glory as for thy peace, that he should assure thee 
of thy everlasting happiness and blessedness. 

Fifthly, There is in all the saints the springs of assurance, and 
therefore they may attain to assurance. 

Precious faith is one spring of assurance, and this is in all the saints, 
though in different degrees, 2 Peter i. 1. ' Simon Peter, a servant and 
an apostle of Jesus Christ), to them that have obtained* like precious faith 
with us, through the righteousness of God, and our Saviour Jesus Christ.' 
Faith in time will, of its own accord, raise and advance itself to assur- 
ance. Faith is an appropriating grace ; it looks upon God, and saith 
with David, ' This God is my God for ever and ever, and he shall be 
my guide unto the death,' Ps. xlviii. 14. It looks upon Christ, and 
saith with the spouse, ' I am my beloved's, and his desire is towards me,' 
Cant. vii. 10. It looks upon an immortal crown, and saith with Paul, 
' Henceforth is laid up for me a crown of glory,' 2 Tim. iv. 8. It looks 
upon the righteousness of Christ, and saith, ' This righteousness is mine 
to cover me.' It looks upon the mercy of Christ, and saith, ' This 
mercy is mine to pardon me.' It looks upon the power of Christ, 
and saith, ' This power is mine to support me.' It looks upon the 
wisdom of Christ, and saith, ' This wisdom is mine to direct me.' It 
looks upon the blood of Christ, and says, ' This blood is mine to save 
me,' &c.^ 

As faith, so hope is another spring of assurance. Col. i. 27, ' Christ 
in you,' saith Paul, 'the hope of glory.' So Heb. vi. 19, 'Which hope 
we have as an anchor of the soul, both sure and stedfast, and which 
entereth into that within the veil.' Hope taketh fast hold upon heaven 
itself, upon the sanctum sanctorum. A Christian's hope is not like that 
of Pandora, which may fly out of the box, and bid the soul farewell, as 
the hope of hypocrites do ; no, it is like the morning light, the least 

• Vives reports of a Jew, that having gone over a deep river on a narrow plank, in a 
dark night, and coming next day to see what danger ho had escaped, fell down dead with 
astonishment. Ah, the astonishing mercies that we have had in these late years ! 

■ Xax'vffi, obtained by lot. [Cf. Joshua xiv. 2 ; xv. 1, et seq. — G.] 

* I may say of faith, as Luther says of prayer : it hath a kind of omnipotency in it, 
it is able to do all things. Est qucedam omnipotentia precum. Tanlum posiumut, quantum 
eredimus. — Cyprian. [See this lather in Index under pr«ce«. — G.] 



J 



Rom. VIII. 32-34;.] heaven on earth. . 323 

beam of it shall commence into a complete sunshine ; it shall shine 
brighter and brighter till perfect day.^ 

When Alexander went upon a hopeful expedition, he gave away his 
gold ; and when he was asked what he kept for himself, he answered, 
Spem majorum et melioram, the hope of greater and better things. 
So a Christian will part with anything rather than with his hope ; he 
knows that hope will keep the heart both from aching and breaking, 
from fainting and sinking ; he knows that hope is a beam of God, a spark 
of glory, and that nothing shall extinguish it till the soul be filled with 
glory. Souls that are big in hope, will not be long without sweet assur- 
ance. God loves not to see the hoping soul go always up and down 
sighing and mourning for want of a good word from heaven, for want 
of possessing what it hopes in time to enjoy. Hold out hope and 
patience ' a little longer, and he that hath promised to come, will come, 
and will not tarry,' Heb. x. 37, /i/xgo» o<sov, oaov. 

Again, A good conscience is another spring of assurance :- 2 Cor. i. 12, 
' For our rejoicing is this, the testimony of our conscience, that in sim- 
plicity and godly sincerity, not with fleshly wisdom, but by the grace 
of God, we have had our conversation in the world, and more abund- 
antly to you-wards.' So 1 John iii. 21, ' Beloved, if our heart condemn 
us not, then have we confidence towards God.' A good conscience hath 
sure confidence ; he that hath it sits, Noah-like, in the midst of all 
combustions and distractions, [in] sincerity and serenity, uprightness and 
boldness. A good conscience and a good confidence go together.* 

What the probationer-disciple said to our Saviour, Mat. viii. 19, 
* Master, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest,* that a good con- 
science says to the believing soul. I will follow thee from duty to duty, 
from ordinance to ordinance ; I will stand by thee, I will strengthen 
thee, I will uphold thee, I will be a comfort to thee in life, and a friend 
to thee in death ; ' though all should leave thee, yet 1 will never for- 
sake thee,' Mat. xxvi. 35. A good conscience will look through the 
blackest clouds, and see a smiling God.^ Look, as an evil conscience 
is attended with the greatest fears and doubts, so a good conscience is 
attended with the greatest clearness and sweetness. And as there is 
no hell in this world to an evil conscience, so there is no heaven in this 
world to a good conscience. He that hath a good conscience hath one 
of the choicest springs of assurance, and it will not be long before God 
will whisper such a man in the ear, and say unto him, ' Son, be of good 
cheer, thy sins be forgiven thee,' Mat. ix. 2.* 

Again, real love to the saints is another spring of assurance, and this 
spring is a never-failing spring. This spring is in the weakest as well 
as in the strongest saints : 1 John iii. J -4, * We know that we have 
passed from death unto life, because we love the brethren. He that 
lovetli not his brother abideth in death.' The apostle doth not say. We 
think, we hope, &c., that we are translated from death to life, but, ' we 

* A saint's motto is Spero meliora ; the hypocrite's hope is like the moraing dew, Job 
viii. 13, 14. 

* Tolle conscieniiam, tolle omnia. Ccmscientia pura semper secura. 

' It is a notable speech of Salvi, Such as are truly blessed in their own consciences, 
Cannqt be miserable by the false judgments of others. [Query, Salvian ? — G.] 

* Innocency is bulwark enough, if you be not guilty, saith Seneca. [' Epistles ' and 
' Blessed Life ' often. — G ] 



324 HEAVEN ON EAUTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

know' that we are translated from death to life, because we love the 
brethren.' Love to the brethren is not the cause of our passing from 
death to life, that is, from a natural state to a spiritual state, from hell 
to heaven, but an evidence thereof. I confess it is very sad to consider 
how this precious stream of love is even dried up in many. 

It was wont to be a proverb, Homo homini deus, one man is a god 
to another ; but now it may be truly said, Homo homini dceinon, one 
man is a devil to another.* He that wants love to his brethren, wants 
one of the sweetest springs from whence assurance flows. A greater 
hell I would not wish any man, than to live and not to love the beloved 
of God. 

Now is it not as easy a thing as it is pleasant, for a man that hath 
several sweet springs in his garden, to sit down, draw water, and drink? 
John iv, 14. O believing souls ! there are springs, there are wells of 
living water not t)nly near you, but in you ; why, then, do you, with 
Hagar, sit down sorrowing and weeping, Gen. xxi. 15-19, when you 
should be a- tasting or a drinking not only of the springs above you, but 
also of the springs within you ? A man that hath fruit in his garden 
may both delight his eye and refresh his spirit with tasting of it. Gal. v. 
22, 23. Certainly we may both eye and taste the fruits of the Spirit 
in us, they being the first-fruits of eternal life. I think none but mad 
souls will say that grace is that forbidden fruit that God would have us 
neither see nor taste. We ought not so to mind a Christ in heaven, 
as not to mind ' Christ in us the hope of glory,' Col. i. 27. Christ would 
not have his spouse so to mind her own blackness, as to forgeft that she 
is all fair and gk)rious within, Cant. i. 5, iv. 7, and Ps. xlv. 1 1. 

Sixthly, The Holy Ghost exhorts us ' to give all diligence to make 
our calling and election sure,' 2 Pet. i. 10, and presses us to look to the 
obtaining of a ' full assurance.' Therefore believers may attain unto an 
assurance of their everlasting happiness and blessedness : ' Wherefore 
the rather, brethren,' saith the apostle, ' give diligence to make your 
calling and election sure ; for if you do these things, you shall never 
fall' The Greek word^ translated ' give diligence' signifieth two things: 
(1.) All possible haste and speed ; (2.) All manner of seriousness and 
intention in doing. Make it your main business, your chiefest study, 
your greatest care, to ' make your calling and election sure,' saith the 
apostle.* When this is done, your all is done. Till this be done, there 
is nothing done. And to shew the necessity, utility, excellency, and 
possibility of it, the apostle puts a 'rather' upon it: 'Wherefore the 
rather give all diligence to make your calling and election sure ;' or, as 
it is in the onginal, ' firm or stable.'^ It is the one thing necessary ; it 
is of an internal and eternal concernment to make firm and sure work 
for your souls. Assurance is a jewel of that worth, a pearl of that price, 
that he that will have it must work, and sweat, and weep, and wait to 
obtain it. He must not only use diligence, but he must use all dili- 

' oIlafittM, to know certainly ; we are as certain of it as we are certain that we live. 

* Or, homo homini leo, one man is a lion to another. 
' 2<r«t/Sa»^aTi. Vide Beza and Jansen. 

* Luther saith he bad rather obey than work miracles. 

'" Bi/Ja;a», firm or stable. God loves cvrrittaa, not quceriatas, the runner, 'not tlie 
questioner. He is taken most with them that are more for motion than notion, for doing 
than talking, 



Rom. VIII. 32-34-.] heaven on earth. 325 

gence ; not only dig, bmt he must dig deep, before he can come to this 
golden mine. Assurance is that * white stone,' that ' new name,' that 
hidden manna, that none can obtain but such as labour for it as for 
life. Assurance is such precious gold, that a man must win it before he 
can wear it. Win gold, and wear gold, is the language both of heaven 
and earth. 

The riches, honours, langiaages, and favours of this world cannot be 
obtained without much trouble and travel, without rising early and 
going to bed late, and do you think that assurance, which is more worth 
than heaven and earth, can be obtained by cold, lazy, heartless services?^ 
If you do, you do but deceive your own souls. There are five things 
that God will never sell at a cheap rate, — Christ, truth, his honour, 
heaven, and assurance. He that will have these must pay a good price 
for them, or go for ever without them,^ 

And as Peter exhorts you to * give all diligence to make your calling 
and election sure,' so Paul presseth you to look to the obtaining of full 
assurance, which does clearly evidence that there is a possibility of 
attaining unto a full assurance oi our happiness and blessedness in this 
life. And ' we desire,' saith the apostle, ' that every one of you do shew 
the same diligence, to the full assurance of hope unto the end, that ye 
be not slothful, but followers of them who through faith and patience 
inherit the promises,' Heb. vi. 11, 12.^ We must not only strive after 
assurance, but we must strive and shew all diligence to the attaining of 
that rich and full assurance which will scatter all fears and doubts, 
which will make a soul patient in w^aiting, courageous in doing, and 
cheerful in suffering, and which will make a heaven in a man's heart 
on this side heaven, and make him go singing into paradise, in despite 
of all calamities and miseries.* And certainly it can never stand with 
the holiness, righteousness, faithfulness, and goodness of God, to put his 
people upon making their calling and election sure, and upon obtaining 
full assurance, if there were not a possibility of obtaining a full and 
well-grounded assurance of their happiness and blessedness in this life ;* 
and therefore it doth undeniably follow that they may attain unto a 
blessed assurance of their felicity and glory whilst they are in this vale 
of misery. The contrary opinion will make a man's life a hell here,, 
though he should escape a hell hereafter. 

Seventhl'i^, The Lord hath, in much Tnercy and love, propounded in 
his word the ways and means whereby believers may obtain a well- 
grounded assurance of their everlasting happiness and blessedness ; 
and therefore it may be obtained. Take three scriptures to evidence this. 

The first is in 2 Peter i. 13. If you turn to the words, you shall find 
that the Lord does not only press tbem to ' give all diligence to make 
their calling and election sure ;' but he shews them plainly the way and 
means whereby this nmy be done, namely, by adding ' to your faith 
virtue, and to virtue knowledge,' &e. 

* Ps. cxxvii. 1, 2; Luke v. 5; Prov xiv, 23. 

* Qui fecit te sine te, non salvibit te sine te. — Augustine. [Confessions, I., et alibi, — G.] 
3 Vide Calvin and Piscator on the text. 

* PrcEcepta docent, exempla movent; precepts may instruct, but examples do persuade. 
See from verses 13 to 19 of this chapter. [Hebrews vi.] 

* It was a good saying, Da quod jttbet et jube quod vis. [Augustine, Confessions, I., 
&c. &c.— G.] 



326 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

The second scripture is that 1 Cor. xi. 28, ' But let a man examine 
himself ; and so let eat of that bread, and drink of that cup.' By ex- 
amination the soul comes to see what right it hath to Christ and all the 
precious things of his house ; and believingly to eat so of that bread of 
life, that heavenly manna, as that it may live for ever. 

The third scripture is that 2 Cor. xiii. 5, ' Examine yourselves whether 
ye be in the faith ; prove yourselves ; know ye not your own selves 
how that Christ is in you, except ye be reprobates V or unapproved, or 
rejected.* By a serious examination of a man's own estate, he may 
know whether he hath faith or not, whether he be Christ's spouse or the 
devil's strumpet, whether there be a work of grace upon his heart or not. 
And certainly it cannot stand with the glorious wisdom, unspotted right- 
eousness, and transcendent holiness of God, to put men upon the use of 
such and such means in order to the obtaining of such and such an end, 
if that end could not be obtained by the use of the means prescribed. 
Exodus XV. 11. Man, that hath but a spark of that wisdom, righteous- 
ness, and holiness that is in God, will not put any upon the use of such 
or such means for the obtaining of health, wealth, or the like, unless 
there be a proper tendency in the use of those means prescribed to reach 
such ends.^ And will God, who is wisdom, righteousness, and holiness 
in the abstract? Surely no. God is one infinite perfection in him- 
self,^ which is eminently and virtually all perfections of the creatures ; 
and therefore it is impossible that God should act below the creature,* 
which he should do if he should put the creature upon the use of those 
means that would not reach the ends for which the means were used. 

Thus you see clearly by this seventh argument that believers may in 
this life attain to a well-grounded assurance of their everlasting happi- 
ness and blessedness. 

Eighthly, It was the principal end of Christ's institution of the 
sacrament of the supper that he might assure them of his love, and 
that he might seal up to them the forgiveness of their sins, the accep- 
tation of their persons, and the salvation of their souls, Mat. xxvi. 
27, 28. The nature of a seal is to make things sure and firm among 
men ; so the supper of the Lord is Christ's broad seal, it is Christ's privy- 
seal, whereby he seals and assures his people that they are happy here, 
that they shall be more happy hereafter, that they are everlastingly 
beloved of God, that his heart is set upon them, that their names are 
written in the book of life, that there is laid up for them a crown of 
righteousness, and that nothing shall be able to separate them from him 
who is their light, their life, their crown, their all in all.* 

In this sacrament Christ comes forth and shews his love, his heart, 
his bowels, his blood, that his children may no longer say. Doth the 
Lord Jesus love us ? doth he delight in us ? &c. ; but that they may say 
with the spouse, ' I am my beloved's, and his desire is towards me,' 
Cant. vii. 10.* Many precious Christians there are that have lain long 

' ioxiftd^trt, as the goldsmith does the gold in the fire. iVoxifnu, i. e. unapproved or coun- 
terfeit ; not reprobates, as it is translated. — Vide Grotiua. [Cf. Plato, Legg. 742, a Q.] 

* Job xxxviii. 5, 18, 21, 33 verses compared. 

3 Abstracts do better express God than concretes and adjectives. 

* Daniel vi. 8 ; Mat. xxvii. C6 ; 2 Tim. iv. 8; Col. iii. 11. 

* inpltJTI His desirous affection is towards me, as the wife's is towards her dearest 
husband. iSo the Hebrew word signifies. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 327 

under fears and doubts, sighing and mourning; that have run from 
minister to minister, and from one duty to another, &c., and yet could 
never be persuaded of the love of Christ to their poor souls ; but still 
their fears and doubts have followed them, till they have waited upon 
the Lord in this glorious ordinance, by which the Lord hath assured 
them of the remission of their sins, and the salvation of their souls. In 
this ordinance God hath given them manna to eat, and a white stone, 
and new name, which no man knoweth but he that receiveth it. Rev. 
ii. 17. Tell me, ye precious, believing souls, whether you have not 
found God in this ordinance often whispering of you in the ear, saying, 
' Sons and daughters, be of good cheer, your sins are forgiven you' ? 
Mat. ix. 2. I know you have. 

Those scriptures that do expressly require saints to be abundant and 
constant in rejoicing and in praising of God, to have always harps in their 
hands, and hallelujahs in their mouths, do clearly evidence that believers 
may attain to a well-grounded assurance in this life.^ How can they 
rejoice and glory in God, that do not know whether he will be an ever- 
lasting friend or an everlasting enemy to them, whether he will always 
breathe out love or wrath upon them ? How can they but hang their 
harps on the willows, that do not know but that they may live in a 
strange land, Ps. cxxxvii. 2 ; yea, in a land of darkness all their days ? 
How can they be cheerful or thankful, that do not know but that they 
may at last hear that heart-breaking, that conscience-wounding, that soul- 
slaying word, ' Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared 
for the devil and his angels,' Mat. xxv. 41. Now, there is no duty in 
the whole book of God that is more frequently and abundantly pressed 
upon believers than this of joy and rejoicing, of praise and thanksgiving, 
as all know that know anything of the Scripture: 1 Thes. v. 16, 'Rejoice 
evermore.' God would not have his children always a-putting finger in 
the eye. Ah, Christians ! remember what Christ hath done for you, 
and what he is still a-doing for you in heaven, and what he will do for 
you to all eternity, and spend your days in whining and mourning if you 
can.2 Ps. xxxii. 11, 'Be glad in the Lord, and rejoice, ye righteous; 
and shout for joy, all ye that are upright in heart.' Ps. xxxiii. 1, 'Rejoice 
in the Lord, O ye righteous ; for praise is comely for the upright.'^ 
Christians, are not your mercies greater than your miseries? Yes. Are 
your greatest sufferings comparable to the least spark of grace or beam 
of glory revealed in you or to you ? No. Will not one hour's being in 
the bosom of Christ recompense you for aU your trouble and travail ? 
Yes. Why, then, do you spend more time in sigliing than in rejoicing; 
and why do you, by your not rejoicing, sad those precious hearts that 
God would not have sadded, and glad those graceless hearts that God 
would not have gladded ?* 

1 Nulla verior miseria quam falsa Uetitia, there is no truer misery than false joys. 

* It would even be an endless business to cite every scripture wherein this duty is en- 
joined. It is a duty that is much pressed in both Testaments, and as little practised by 
all whimpering Christians. 

3 The word noteth a fair and comely grace, for which a thing is to be liked and desired. 
— Ainsworlh. [Henry Ainsworth, ' Annotations on the Bible,' 2 vols, folio, 1627. He 
died 1 622.— G.] 

* jEtema erit exultatio qtuz bono Icetatur OBtemo, their joy lasts for ever whose object 
remains for ever. 



328 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

A beautiful face is at all times pleasiug to the eye, but then espe- 
cially when there is joy manifested in the countenance. Joy in the 
face puts a new beauty, and makes that which before was beautiful to 
be exceediug beautiful. It puts a lustre and glory upon beauty ; so 
does joy in the face, heart, and life of a Christian, cast a general splen- 
dour and glory upon him, and the ways of God wherein he walks. The 
joy of the Lord is not only the strength, but also the beauty and glory 
of Christians, Neh. viii. 10. 

Joy and rejoicing is a consequent and effect of assurance, as many 
believers by experience find ; and therefore, without all peradventure, 
believers may attain unto a well-grounded assurance of their everlasting 
happiness, else it is impossible that they should ' rejoice evermore ;' so 
that by this argument, as by the former, it clearly appears that be- 
lievers may in this life be assured of their eternal well being. ^ 

Tenthly, The tenth and last argument, to prove that believers may in 
this life attain to a well-grounded assurance, is this, ThatGod would never 
have made such a broad difference in the Scripture betiveen the seed of 
the woman and the seed of the serpent, between the righteous and the 
wicked, between saints and sinners, between sons and slaves, slieep and 
goats, between lions and lambs, betiveen wheat and chaff, light and dark- 
ness, &c., if it were impossible for men to knoiv which of these two estates 
they are in.'^ Therefore they may know whether they are in a state of 
life or in a state of death, in a state of misery or in a state of felicity, in a 
state of wrath or in a state of love. Mat. xiii. 1, seq. Oh ! it is much below 
the grace of God, it is repugnant to the wisdom of God, to make such 
a wide difference between his own children and Satan's, John viii. 44, 
if it were not possible for every child to know his own father. ' Thou 
shalt call me my father.' Isa. Ixiii. 1 6, ' Doubtless thou art my Father, 
though Abraham be ignorant of us, and Israel acknowledge Us not : thou, 
O Lord, art our Father and Redeemer ; thy name is from everlasting.'' 
The weakest saint can say, * Abba, Father,' Rom. viii. 15 ; the Lord 
will not leave his children comfortless, or as orphans, and fatherless chil- 
dren, as it is in the Greek.* Though the salvation of believers do not 
depend upon their knowledge of God to be their father, yet their con- 
solation does ; therefore the Lord will not be only a father to Israel, 
but he will make Israel know that he is his father : Jer. iii. 4, * Wilt 
thou not from this time cry unto me. My Father, thou art the guide of 
my youth ?'* 

By these ten arguments it doth evidently appear, that believers may 
in this life attain unto a well-grounded assurance of their everla.sting 
happiness and blessedness. I shall apply this a little, and then close 
up this chapter. 

Use. This precious truth thus proved, looks sourly and wishl}?* upon 

* Mrs Kath. Brettergh, under the power of assurance, cries out, Oh the joys, the joys, 
the inconceivable joys my heart is fiUed with. [See Index under Brettergh, for former 
note on. — G.] 

» Gen. iii. 15; Ezek. xviii. 19, seq. ; Mat. xxv. 1, teq. ; Mat. iii. 12; 2 Cor. vi. 14. 
' The saints' motto is, Tarn pint nemo, tarn pater nemo, No father is like our Father. 

* John xiv. 18, i^(pateus. God hath no child so young, but can more or less call him 
Father. 

* Wo say he is a wise child that knows his father ; such wise ones believers are. 

« ' With eager desire,' an early form of ' wistfully.' — G. Qu. Is it not rather connected 
with weak, sour wine ? Wuht/-w<uhi/ is a colloquial compound. — £o. 



\ 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 329 

all those that aflSrm that believers cannot in this life attain unto a 
certain well-grounded assurance of their everlasting happiness and bless- 
edness, — as papists and Arrainians : all know that know their writings 
and teachings, that they are in arms against this Christ-exalting, and 
soul-cheering doctrine of assurance. ' I know no such thing as assur- 
ance of heaven in this life,' saith Grevinchovius the Arminian.* As- 
surance is a pearl that they trample under feet ; it is a beam of heaven 
that hath so much light, brightness, and shining glory in it, that their 
blear-eyes cannot behold it. Assurance is glory in the bud, it is the 
suburbs of paradise, it is a cluster of the land of promise, it is a spark 
of God, it is the joy and crown of a Christian ; the greater is their im- 
piety and folly that deny assurance, that cry down assurance under any 
names or notions whatsoever. They are rather tormenters than com- 
forters that say, poor souls may know that there is a crown of right- 
eousness, but they must not presume to know that they shall have the 
lipnour to wear that crown ; and that makes God like King Xerxes, 
who crowned his steersman in the morning, and beheaded him in the 
evening of the same day.^ 

Arminians are not ashamed to say, that God may crown a man one 
hour, and. uncrown him in the next ; they blush not to say that a man 
may be happy and miserable, under love and under wrath, an heir of 
heaven and a firebrand of hell, a child of light and a child of darkness, 
and all in an hour. Oh what miserable comforters are these ? What 
is this but to torment the weary soul ? to dispirit the wounded spirit, 
and to make them most sad whom God would have most glad 1 Ah ! 
how sad is it for men to affirm, that wounded spirits may know ' that 
the Sun of righteousness hath healing in his wings,' Mai. iv. 2 ; but they 
cannot be assured that they shall be healed. The hungry soul may 
know that there is bread enough in his Father's house, but cannot 
know that he shall taste of that bread, Luke xv. 17. The naked soul 
may know that Christ hath robes of righteousness to cover all spots, 
sores, defects, and deformities of it, but may not presume to know that 
Christ will put these royal robes upon it. Rev. iii. 18. The impoverished 
soul may know that there be unsearchable^ riches in Christ, but cannot 
be assured that ever it shall partake of those riches, Eph. iii. 8. All 
that these men allow poor souls, is guesses and conjectures that it may 
be well with them. They will not allow souls to say with Thomas, ' My 
Lord, and my God,' John xx. 18 ; nor with Job to say, ' My Redeemer 
lives,' Job xix. 25 ; nor with the church, ' I am my beloved's, and his 
desire is towards me,' Cant. vii. 10. And so they leave souls in a clou3y, 
questioning, doubting, hovering condition, hanging, like Mahomet's 
tomb at Mecca, between two loadstones ;* or like Erasmus, as the papists 
paint him, hanging betwixt heaven and hell.^ They make the poor 
soul a M agor-missabib, a terror to itself 

' Sensum eleetionis adghriam in hac vita nullam agnotco. — Grevinchov. [That is, Nico- 
las Grevinchovius : Apologia, 1617, 4to. — G.] 

* (1.) Is the surety of the new covenant grown so poor? Hob. vii. 22. (2.) Is the pro- 
mise now come to be yea and nay ? 2 Cor. i. 20. (3.) Is the power of God grown so 
weak ? 1 Peter i. 5. (4.) Is the decreeing will of God become immutable ? [mutable ? — G.l 
2 Tim. ii. 19. (5.) Is the free, eternal, and everlasting love of God become changeable '? 
Jer.'xxxi. 3 ; John xiii. 1, that these things can be? 

' unlix^'K^rrov, not to be traced out. [Cf. Rom. xi. 33. — G.] * A n?;/<Athat still lives, — G. 

' The Protestant Reformers also, from the great scholar s lukewarmness. — G. 



330 HEAVEN ON EARTa [RoM. VIII. 32-34. 

What more uncomfortable doctrine than this ? What more soul-dis- 
quieting, and soul-unsettling doctrine than this ? Thou art this moment 
in a state of life, thou mayest the next moment be in a state of death ; 
thou art now gracious, thou mayest the next hour be graceless ; thou 
art now in the promised land, yet thou mayest die in the wilderness ; 
thou art to-day a habitation for God, thou mayest to-morrow be a syna- 
gogue of Satan ; thou hast to-day received the white stone of absolu- 
tion, thou mayest to-morrow receive the black stone of condemnation;' 
thou art now in thy Saviour's arms, thou mayest to-morrow be in Satan's 
paws ; thou art now Christ's freeman, thou mayest to-morrow be Sa- 
tan's bondman ; thou art now a vessel of honour, thou mayest suddenly 
become a vessel of wrath ; thou art now greatly beloved, thou mayest 
soon be as greatly loathed; this day thy name is fairly written in the 
book of life, to-morrow the book may be crossed, and thy name blotted 
out for ever. This is the Arminians' doctrine, and if this be not to 
keep souls in a doubting and trembling, and shivering condition, what 
is it ? Well, Christians, remember this is your happiness and blessed- 
ness, that ' none can pluck you out of your Father's hand,' John x. 29 ; 
that you are ' kept,' as in a garrison, or as with a guard,^ ' by the power 
of God through faith unto salvation,' 1 Peter i. 5. ' That the mountains 
shall depart, and the hills be removed ; but the kindness of the Lord 
shall not depart from you, neither shall the covenant of peace be 
removed, saith the Lord that hath mercy on you,' Isa. liv. 10. * That 
Christ ever lives to make intercession for you,' Heb, vii. 25 ; and that 
men and devils are as able, and shall as soon, make a world, dethrone 
God, pluck the sun out of the firmament, and Christ out of the bosom 
of the Father, as they shall pluck a believer out of the everlasting arms 
of Christ, or rob him of one of his precious jewels, Deut. xxxiii. 26, 27. 
I shall close up this chapter with an excellent saying of Luther : ' The 
whole Scripture,' saith he, ' doth principally aim at this thing, that we 
should not doubt, but that we should hope, that we should trust, that 
we should believe, that God is a merciful, a bountiful, a gracious, and a 
patient God to his people.' ' 



CHAPTER IL 

Containing several weighty propositions concerning assurance. 

The first proposition that I shall lay down concerning assurance 
is this. That God denies assurance for a time to his dearest and choicest 
ones, and that upon many considerable grounds. 

(1.) As, first, for the eocercise of their grace. A gracious soul would 
always be upon mount Tabor, looking into Canaan ; he would always 
be in his Father's arms, and under his Father's smiles ; he would always 
be in the sunshine of divine favour;* he would always have the heavens 
open, that he might always see his Christ and his crown ; he would 

' The heathens used to absolve men by giving them white stones, and condemn them 
by giving them black ones. 

* f^ov^ivfiitevs, kept safe and fast, as in a strong garrison. 

' See former footnote on this Treatise, and Index sub nomine- — G. 

* Tarn paler nemo, iumpiut nemo. — Tertulliau. 



Rom. VIII 32-34.] heaven on earth. 331 

with Peter be always upon the mount ; he is loath to walk 
through the valley of darkness, through the valley of Baca. As the 
king of Sodom said once to Abraham, ' Give me the persons, and take 
the goods to thyself,' Gen. xiv. 21 ; so gracious souls are apt to say. 
Give me joy, give me peace, give me assurance, and do you take trials, 
afflictions, and temptations to yourselves. But pray, what use would 
there be of the stars, if the sun did always shine? Why, none. Why, 
no more use would there be of your graces, if assurance should be 
always continued ; therefore the Lord, for the exercise of his children's 
faith, hope, patience, &c., is pleased, at least for a time, to deny them 
assurance, though they seek it by earnest prayer, and with a flood of 
penitent tears.^ 

(2.) Tlie Lord denies assurance to his dearest ones, that he may keep 
them in the exercise of those religious duties that are most costly and 
contrary to flesh and blood, as to mourning, repenting, self-judging, 
self-loathing, self-abhorring, and self-searching; as Lam. i. 16, 'For 
these things I weep : mine eye, mine eye runneth down with water, 
because the comforter that should relieve my soul is far from me'; chap, 
iii. 2, 3, 'He hath led me, and brought me into darkness, not into light. 
Surely against me he is turned ; he turneth his hand against me all the 
day'; ver. 17, 'And thou hast removed my soul far off from peace : I 
forgat prosperity.' Now, what this sad dealings of God puts the 
church upon you may see in ver. 40 .' Let us search and try our ways, 
and turn again to the Lord.' ^ And if you look throughout the book, 
you shall find the church much in self-examining, self-judging, self- 
loathing, &c., upon this ground, that God had hid his face, and drawn 
a curtain between him and them, and stood at a distance from them, 
and would not speak comfortably and friendly to them. 

Now, if you ask me why God will put his children upon those duties of 
religion that are most costly and contrary to flesh and blood 1 I answer, 

1. That his strength and power may appear in their weakness, 2 Cor. 
xii. 7-9. 

2. To discover not only the truth, but also the strength of their graces. 
A little grace will put a man upon those religious duties that are easy 
and pleasing to flesh and blood, and not chargeable, but rather profitable 
and pleasurable ; but it must be strength of grace that puts man upon 
those services that are costly and cross to the old man. 

3. That they may be more fully and eminently conformable to Christ 
their head, who, from first to last, who, even from the cradle to the cross, 
was most exercised in those duties and services that were most costly 
and cross to flesh and blood, as is most evident to all that study the 
writings of the Holy Ghost more than the writings of men, 

4. Because in the performance of such duties they do in a more 

• If saints should always have assurance, they would be too apt to say, Bonum est essa 
hie, it is good for us to be here. 

* 'Bring back my soul,' or 'fetch again my soul,' t. «. comfort, refresh, and rejoice 
me as in former times. rnprUI HK^DriJ. These two Hebrew words are joined together, 
to intimate to us that diligent, narrow, and accurate inquiry that they should make into 
their ways, to search as men do into the bowels of the earth, for the discovery of rich 
miyies and treasures, which made one of the Kabbins cry out. Venial Messias at ego non 
videam, let the Messiah come, but let not me see him. [See Index under Rabbins for for- 
mer reference. — G.] 



332 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-54. 

singular way bear up the name and credit, the honour and glory of God, 
Christ, and the gospel in the world ; the very world will cry out, Ah, 
these are Christians indeed ! 

5. Because the more they are in the exercise of such duties, the 
greater at last will be their reward, Heb. xi. 7. 

6. That Satan's plots and designs may be the better prevented, and 
the wicked world more justly condemned, who do not only despise the 
hardest duties of religion, but also neglect the easiest. Mat. xxv. 4-6. 

(3.) The third reason why God denies assurance to his most precious 
ones, is that tliey may be the more clearly and fully convinced of that 
exceeding sinfulness and bitterness that is in sin, Jer. ii. 19.' Ah, 
Lord, says the soul that [is] sighing and mourning under the want of 
assurance, I see now that sin is not only evil, but the greatest evil in 
the world, in that it keeps me from an assurance of my interest in thee, 
who art the greatest good in the world, and from an assurance of that 
favour of thine that is better than life, and from the light of thy sweet 
countenance, that is better than corn, and wine, and oil; and from those 
joys and comforts that can only make a paradise in my soul, Ps. iv. 7, 
Ixiii. 3, 4. Ah, Lord ! now I find sin not only to be bitter, but to be 
the very quintessence of bitterness. Ah ! no bitterness so bitter as sin, 
that keeps my soul from that sweet assurance, that i& not only the top 
and crown of mercy, but also the sweetener of all mercy, misery, and 
glory.* Oh what unspeakable evil do I now see in that evil that keeps 
me from the most desirable good ! Oh what bitterness do I now find 
in that which Satan, the world, and my own deluded heart told me I 
should find sweetness in f Ah, now I find by experience, that to be 
true, which long since the faithful messengers of the Lord have told me; 
viz., that sin debaseth the soul of man, that it defiles and pollutes the 
soul of man, that it renders the soul most unlike to God, who is optimum 
Tnaximum, the best and greatest, who is omnia supei' omnia, all, and 
above all, and renders it most like to Satan, who is a very sea and .sink 
of sin.* That it hath robbed the soul of the image of God, the holiness 
of God, the beauty of God, the glory of God, the righteousness of God, 
and that keeps the soul from wearing this golden chain of assurance. 

(4.) A fourth reason why God denies assurance to his dearest ones, 
is, because they seek assurance more for themselves, than they do for 
his honour and glory; more that they may have joy without sorrow, 
comfort without torment, peace without trouble, sweet without bitter, 
light without darkness, and day without night, than that he may be 
exalted and admired, and his name alone made great and glorious in 
the world.* 

Many Christians are like the bee that flies into the field to seek 
honey to eat, but brings it not into the master's hive. So they seek for 

^ Sin is malum catholieum, it is atema macula, it is eorruptio optimi pessima. 

* This made one cry out, Quid restat peccator, nisi ut in tota vila tua deplores tolan 
vitam tuam. Oh ! what then remains but in our whole life to lament the sins of our 
whole life. 

' Heb. iii. 13, Sin hath its original from a deceitful subtle serpent, and is the ground 
of all the deceit in the world, and is the great cozener of souls. 

* Yea, peccatum tst Deicidium, sin is a killin": of God. 

* Chrislus opera nostra non lam actibus quam finibua pensat. — Zanchius. The glory of 
God must consume all other ends, as the sun puts out the light of the fire. 



R(5M. VIII. 32-34.] HEAVEN ON EARTH. 333 

assurance, that they may feed upon that sweet honeycomb, more [than] 
to fill their Lord and master's hive with thanks and praise. 

That servant that minds his wages more than his work, must not 
wonder if his master be slack in paying; no more should he that minds 
comfort more than obedience, that minds assurance more than divine 
honour, wonder that God delays the giving in of assurance, though it 
be sought with many prayers and tears. He that is most tender of 
God's honour, shall find by experience that God is most mindful of his 
comfort. God will not see that soul sit long in sackcloth and ashes, 
that makes it his business to set him up upon his throne. He that 
minds God's glory more than his own good, shall quickly find that God 
will even obscure his own glory to do him good. If we are not wanting 
to God's glory, he will not long be wanting to our joy.^ 

(5.) A fifth reason why God denies assurance to his children, is, That 
when they have it, they may the more highly prize it, the more care- 
fully keep it, the more wisely im^prove it,and themoreaffectionatelyand 
effectually bless God for it. None sets such a price upon light, as he that 
hath lain long in a dungeon of darkness ; so none sets such a price upon 
assurance, as those children of light that have walked most in spiritual 
darkness.^ Ah 1 how sweet was the light to Jonah, that had been in the 
belly of hell, Jonah ii. 2 ; so is assurance to those that, through slavish 
fears and unbelief, 'have made their beds in hell,' as the psalmist speaks, 
Pa. cxxxix. 8. Gold that is far fetched, and dearly bought, is most 
esteemed ; so that assurance that costs the soul most pains and patience, 
most waiting and weeping, most striving and wrestling, is most highly 
valued, and most wisely improved/ As, by the want of temporals, God 
teaches his people the better to prize them, and improve them when 
they enjoy them ; so by the want of spirituals, God teaches his people 
the better to prize them, and improve them when they enjoy them. Ah ! 
how sweet was Canaan to those that had been long in the wilderness ! 
How precious was the gold and ear-rings to Israel, that had been long in 
Egypt, and the gifts and jewels to the Jews that had been long in Babylon ! 
So is assurance to those precious souls that have been long without it, 
but at last come to enjoy it, Num. xiv. 33, 34 ; Exod. xi. ; Ezra i. 

After the Trojans had been wandering a long time in the Mediter- 
ranean Sea, as soon as they espied land, they cried out with exulting 
joy, 'Italy, Italy ;' so when poor souls shall come to enjoy assurance, who 
have been long tossed up and down in a sea of sorrow and trouble, how 
will they with joy cry out. Assurance, assurance, assurance !* 

(6.) The sixth reason why God denies assurance to his dearest ones, at 
least for a time, is. That they be kept humble and low in their own 
eyes ; as the enjoyment of mercy glads us, so the want of mercy humbles 
us.^ David's heart was never more low, than when he had a crown only 
in hope, but not in hand. No sooner was the crown set upon his head, 

^ It was a notable saying of Nazianzen, Let me, says he, be cast into tbe sea, let me 
lose my peace rather than the name of Christ should suffer ; so tender was he of the 
honour and glory of Christ. » Life without light is but a lifeless life, Micah vii. 8, 9, 

' Socrates prized the king's countenance above his coin, his good looks above his 
gold ; so do saints prize assurance above all worldly enjoyments. 

* The longer I stay for the empire, said the emperor's son, the greater it will be ; so 
th^ longer a saint stays foe assurance, the greater at last it will be. [Italy : Cf. ^neid 
iii. 521, &c.— G.] 

' Humility is conservatrix virlutum, saith one. [Bernard, sub Humililate.—Q.'] 



334! HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-^4. 

but his blood rises with his outward good, and in the pride of his heart 
he says, ' I shall never be removed,' Ps. xxx. 6. 

Hezekiah was a holy man, yet he swells big under mercy.^ No 
sooner doth God lift up his house higher than others, but he lifts up 
his heart in pride higher than others. When Grod had made him high 
in honours, riches, victories, ay, and in spiritual experiences, then his 
heart flies high, and he forgets God, and forgets himself, and forgets 
that all his mercies were from free mercy, that aU his mercies were but 
borrowed mercies. Surely, it is better to want any mercy than an humble 
heart, it is better to have no mercy than want an humble heart.* A 
little, little mercy, with an humble heart, is far better than the greatest 
mercies with a proud heart. I had rather have Paul's coat with his 
humble heart, than Hezekiah's lifted-up heart with his treasures and 
royal robes. Well, Christians, remember this, God hath two strings to 
his bow ; if your hearts will not lie humble and low under the sense of 
sin and misery, he will make them lie low under the want of some de- 
sired mercy. The want of assurance tends to bow and humble the soul, 
as the enjoyment of assurance doth to raise and rejoice the soul ; and 
therefore do not wonder Avhy precious souls are so long without assurance,, 
why Christ's chariot, assurance, is so long a-coming. Judges v. 28.' 

(7.) The seventh and last reason why God denies assurance, for a 
time, even to his dearest ones, is, That they may live clearly and fully 
upon Jesus Christ, that Jesus Christ may he seen to he all in all. It 
is natural to the soul to rest upon everything below Christ ; to rest upon 
creatures, to rest upon graces, to rest upon duties, to rest upon divine 
manifestations, to rest upon celestial consolations, to rest upon gracious 
evidences, and to rest upon sweet assurances. Now the Lord, to cure 
his people of this weakness, and to bring them to live wholly and solely 
upon Jesus Christ, denies comfort, and denies assurance, &c., and for a 
time leaves his children of light to w^alk in darkness. Christians, this 
you are always to remember, that though the enjoyment of assurance 
makes most for your consolation, yet the living purely upon Christ in 
the want of assurance, makes most for his exaltation. No Christian 
to him that, in the want of visibles, can live upon an invisible God; 
that in thick darkness can live upon God as an everlasting light.* He 
is happy that believes upon seeing, upon feeling, but thrice happy are 
those souls that believe when they do not see ; that love when they do 
not know that they are beloved ; and that in the want of all comfort 
and assurance, can live upon Christ as their only all.* He that hath 
learned this holy art, cannot be miserable ; he that is ignorant of this 
art cannot be happy.® 

• 2 Cbron. xxxii. The whole chapter is worthy of reading. 

* As I get good by my sins, so I get hurt by my graces, said Mr Fox, they being acci- 
dental occasions of pride to him. [The Martyrologist.— G.] Augustine saith that the 
first, second, and third virtue of a Christian is humility. [See Index under Humility 
for former citations of this ; also under Augustine for reference.— G.] 

» God hath two hands, a hand open and a hand shut, and he makes use of both to 
keep souls humble. 

* Omne bonum in sutnmo bono, all good is in the chiefest good. Christ is all things to 
Christians ; he is bread to feed them, a fountain to refresh them, a physician to heal them, 
a rock to shelter them, a light to guide them, and a crown to crown them. 

» Heb. xi. 27; Isa. Ix. 1!» ; Micah vii. 7-9; John xx. 28, 29. 

• Christ is omnia super omnia. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 335 

The second proposition is this, That the Scripture hath many sweet 
significant tcords to express that well-grounded assurance by, which 
believers may attain to in this life. 

Sometimes it is called a persuasion.' Rom. viii. 38, ' I am persuaded 
that neither death, nor life, &c., shall be able to separate us from the 
love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.' It is rendered a per- 
spicuous and peculiar manifestation of Christ to the soul, John xiv. 
21-24. It is often rendered, to know, as 1 John iii. 14, 19, 24, and 
V. 13, 19, &c. But the word that the Scripture doth most fully express 
this by, '^'krjPo<poBia, full assurance, that is, when the soul, by the Spirit 
and word, is so fully persuaded of its eternal happiness and blessedness, 
that it is carried, like Noah's ark, above all waves, doubts, and fears, 
and, Noah-like, sits still and quiet, and can, with the apostle Paul, 
triumph over sin, hell, wrath, death, and devil. 

This is sometimes called ' full assurance of understanding ;' some- 
times it is called ' full assurance of hope ;' and sometimes it is called 
' full assurance of faith ;' because these are the choice and pleasant 
springs from whence assurance flows. Col. ii. 2 ; Heb. vi. 11, 18, 19; 
X. 22. 

Now though this full assurance is earnestly desired, and highly prized, 
and the want of it much lamented, and the enjoyment of it much en- 
deavoured after by all saints, yet it is only obtained by a few. Assur- 
ance is a mercy too good for most men's hearts, it is a crown too weighty 
for most men's heads. Assurance is optimum maximum, the best and 
greatest mercy ; and therefore God will only give it to his best and 
dearest friends.'' 

Augustus in his solemn feasts, gave trifles to some, but gold to others. 
Honours and riches, &c., are trifles that God gives to the worst of men ; 
but assurance is that 'tried gold,' Rev. iii. 18, that God only gives to 
tried friends. Among those few that have a share or portion in the 
special love and favour of God, there are but a very few that have an 
assurance of his love.' 

It is one mercy for God to love the soul, and another mercy for God 
to assure the soul of his love. God writes many a man's name in the 
book of life, and yet will not let him know it till his hour of death, as 
the experience of many precious souls doth clearly evidence. Assurance 
is a flower of paradise that God sticks but in a few men's bosoms. It 
is one thing to be an heir of heaven, and another thing for a man to 
know or see himself an heir of heaven. The child in the arms may be heir 
to a crown, a kingdom, and yet not understand it ; so many a saint may 
be heir to a crown, a kingdom of glory, and yet not know it. As the 
babes that passes the pangs of the first-birth do not presently cry, 
'Father, father;' so the new-born babes in Christ, that have passed 
the pangs of the second-birth, do not presently cry ' Abba, Father ;' they 

^ (1.) There is a natural persuasion : natural principles may persuade a man that there 
is a God, and that this God is a great God, a beauteous God, &c., but this will not make 
a man happy; (2.) there is a moral persuasion; (3.) there is a traditional persuasion; 
(4.) there is a divine persuasion that flows from divine principles and causes. 

* This full assurance is the maximum quod sic, the highest pinnacle of assurance. 

' Most saints, 1 believe, can give a loud testimony to this truth. I shall rejoice when 
theii: experiences shall confute it. [Augustus, . . . trifles : Suetonius, Octavius, cap. 
75._G.] 



336 HEAVEN ON EAETH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

do not presently cry out, Heaven, heaven is ours ; glory, glory is ours 
Rom. viii. 16, 17, 1 Peter ii. 2. 

The third proposition is this. That a man may have true grace, 
that hath Ti ) assurance of the love and favour of God, or of the remis- 
sion of his sins and salvation of his soul. 

A man may be truly holy, and yet not have assurance that he shall 
be eternally happy. A man may be God's, and yet he not know it ; 
his estate may be good, and yet he not see it ; he may be in a safe 
condition, when he is not in a comfortable condition. All may be well 
with him in the court of glory, when he would give a thousand worlds 
that all were but well in the court of conscience.' 

The Canaanite woman shewed much love, wisdom, zeal, humility, 
and faith, yea, such strength of faith as makes Christ admire her, and 
yield to her, grace her, and gratify her, and yet she had no assurance 
that we read of, Mat. xv. 22, 29. So Paul, speaking of the believing 
Ephesians, saith, ' In whom ye also trusted, after that ye heard the 
word of truth, the gospel of your salvation : in whom also, after that 
ye believed, ye were sealed with that Holy Spirit of promise,' Eph. 
i. 13.* First, they heard the word ; and then secondly, they believed ; 
and then thirdly, they were sealed ; that is, fully assured of a heavenly 
inheritance, of a purchased possession.^ So 1 John v. 13, 'These things 
have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, 
that ye may know that ye have eternal life, and that ye may believe 
on the Son of God.' So Isa 1. 10, ' Who is among you that feareth the 
Lord, that obeyetli the voice of his servant, that walketh in darkness, 
and hath no light ? let him trust in the name of the Lord, and stay 
himself upon his God.' So»Micah vii. 8, 9, ' Rejoice not against me, O 
mine enemy : when I fall, I shall arise ; when I sit in darkness, the 
Lord shall be a light unto me. I will bear the indignation of the Lord, 
because I have sinned against him, until he plead my cause, and execute 
judgment for me; he will bring me forth to the light, and I shall behold 
his righteousness.'* Asaph was a very holy man, a man eminent in 
grace, and yet without assurance, as may be seen at large, Ps. Ixxvii. 
Heman, doubtless, was a very precious soul, and yet from his youth up, 
he was even distracted with terrors, P.s. Ixxxviii. There are thousands 
of Christians that are in a state of grace, and shall be saved, that want 
assurance and the proper effects of it, as high joy, pure comfort, glorious 
peace, and vehement longings after the coming of Christ.* 

Assurance is requisite to the well-being of a Christian, but not to the 
being ; it is requisite to the consolation of a Christian, but not to the 
salvation of a Christian ; it is requisite to the well-being of grace, but 
not to the mere being of grace. Though a man cannot be saved with- 
out faith, yet he may be saved without assurance. God hath in many 
places of the Scripture declared, that without faith there is no salvation, 
but God hath not in any one place of the Scripture declared, that without 

' The blind mau in the Gospel called his faith unbelief. [Mark ix. 24. — G.] 

* They that honour God by sealing to his truth, those God will honour by sealing 
them with his Spirit. 

* Saints have eternal life, 1. inpretio ; 2, in promisso ; 3, in prmitiis. 

* Eiyt. Zagnaph signifies vehement anger, with a sad and lowering countenance, Dan. 
i. 10. Vide Merc. [That is, John Le Mercier or Mercerus. Died 1572. His 'Com- 
mentaries' still in use. — G.] ' Isa. viii. 17 ; xlix. 14-16 ; liv. 6-11. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 337 

assurance there is no salvation.^ A man must first be saved before he 
can be assured of his salvation, for he cannot be assured of that which 
is not ; and a man must have saving grace before he can be saved, for 
he cannot be saved by that which he hath not. Again, a man must be 
ingrafted into Christ, before he can be assured of remission or salvation, 
but this he cannot be before he hath faith, therefore there may be grace 
where there is no assurance. Christ went to heaven in a cloud, and 
the angel went up to heaven in the smoke and flame of the sacrifice ; 
and so I doubt not but many precious souls do ascend to heaven in 
clouds and darkness. Acts i. 9 ; Judges xiii. 20. 

Now a man may have grace, and yet want assurance, and that may 
arise from these causes. 

(] .) First, From his cavilling spirit, and from his siding with the 
old man against the new, with the flesh against the spirit, with corrup- 
tion against grace, with the house of Saul against the house of David, 
with the work of Satan against the work of God. Sin is Satan's work ; 
grace, holiness is God's ; yet such is the weakness, yea, madness of many 
poor souls, that they will fall in and side with Satan's work, rather 
than with God's, against their own souls.* Ah ! Christians, will you con- 
demn that judge for injustice and unrighteousness, that shall open his 
ears to the complaints of the plaintiff, but stops his ears against the 
answers of the defendant ; and will you not condemn yourselves for 
that you do with both ears hear what sin and Satan hath to say against 
the soul, but have not one ear open to hear what the Spirit, what grace, 
what the new man, what the noble part of man, what the regenerate 
man, can say for the justification, satisfaction, and consolation of the 
soul.^ Let me tell thee, O thou cavilling soul I that it is thy wisdom 
and thy duty to rememember that command of God, that doth pro- 
hibit thee from bearing false witness against thy neighbour. That same 
command doth enjoin thee not to bear false witness against the work 
of grace upon thy own heart, against the precious and glorious things 
that God hath done for thy soul. And thou shouldst make as much 
conscience of bearing false witness against anything the Lord hath 
wrought in thee, and for thee, as thou doest make conscience of bearing 
false witness against thy neighbour. It cannot but be sad with the 
soul, but be night with the soul, when it makes much conscience of the 
one, and no conscience of the other. Many heathens have been so 
loving and faithful one to another, that they would rather die, than 
they would bear false witness one against another. How dare you 

* God never said, Except you be assured I will pardon you, I will never pardon yon ; 
except you are assured 1 will save you, I will never save you. This is language God 
never spoke ; and why, then, should men speak it ? 

' Cease cavilling, thou weak soul, and say, Quodfui, Domine, ignosee; quod mm, eorrige; 
quod ero, dirige, Lord, forgive what I have been, correct what I am, direct what I shall 
be. 

' When John Prostiborski [?], baron of Schanow, was laid on the rack, he, with an 
heroical indignation, cut out his tongue, and cast it away. Being demanded why he did 
80, set down his answer with a quill on the wall : I did it, said he, because I would not 
bft brought by any tortures to say anything that is false against myself or others. Ah ! 
cavilling souls, I had almost said that you were better cut out your tongues than suffer 
them to be cavilling against the grace of God, the image of God, that is stamped upon 
you; 

VOL. IL Y 



338 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [RoM. VIII. 32-34. 

cavilling souls, then to bear false witness against your own souls, and 
the gracious work of the Lord upon them ! If this be not the way to 
keep off assurance, and keep the soul in darkness, yea, in a hell, I know 
nothing. 

(2.) Again, a man may have grace, and yet want assurance, and 
that may arise in the second place from the exceeding littleness and 
weakness of his grace} A little candle yields but a little light, and a 
little grace yields but a little evidence.^ Great measures of grace 
carries with them great and clear evidences, but little measures carries 
with them but little evidence. Some stars are so small that they are 
scarce discernible ; so some saints' graces are so small, that they can 
hardly see their graces to be graces. A little fire will yield but a little 
heat ; a little grace will yield but a little comfort, a little evidence ; a 
little grace will yield a man a heaven hereafter, but it is a great deal 
of grace that must yield us a heaven here ; a little stock will bring in 
but a little profit ; a little grace will bring in but a little peace ; a little 
jewel yields but a little lustre, a little glory ; no more doth a little 
grace, and therefore it is that Christians that have but a little grace, 
have but a little of the shine and lustre of assurance, they have but 
little joy and comfort in this world. Yet that the spirits of weak 
Christians may not utterly faint, let me give them this hint, viz., that 
the weakest Christian is as much justified, as much pardoned, as much 
adopted, and as much united to Christ as the strongest, and hath as 
much interest and propriety in Christ as the highest and noblest 
Christian that breathes, though he cannot make so much advantage 
and improvement of his interest and propriety as the strong Christian, 
who hath a greater degree of grace.^ 

Hierom [Jerome] observes upon the beatitudes, that there are many 
of the promises made to weak grace : Mat. v. 3, 4, 6, ' Blessed are the 
poor in spirit : blessed are they that mourn : blessed are they that 
hunger and thirst.' Weak saints, remember this: the promise is a ring 
of gold, and Christ is the precious tried stone in that ring ; and upon 
that stone must you rest, as you would have grace to thrive, and your 
souls to be safe and happy. Weak souls, remember this : as Joseph 
sent chariots to bring his father and his brethren to him. Gen. xlv. 
80 God would have your weak graces to be as chariots to bring you to 
himself, who is the cherisher, strengthener, and increaser of grace. He 
that makes his graces to be servants and handmaids to convey him to 
Christ, the fountain of grace, he shall find the greatest sweetness in 
grace, and the greatest increase of grace. 

(3.) Thirdly, A man may have true grace, and yet want assurance, 
and this may arise from the resurrection of old sins. Ah ! when those 
sins which were long since committed, and long since lamented, and 
long since loathed, and long since crucified ; when those old sins, which 

' Mat. xiv. 30, 81 ; Mark ix. 24. 

* Pythagoras saith, that mustard seed hath the pre- eminence among those things 
whose power is to ascend upward. Pliny, in his Nat. Hist., lib. ii. cap. 22, speaks more- 
of this grain. [Rather lib. xix. c. 54, 57. — G.] 

' The babe in the arms hath as much propriety in the father as he that is grown up 
to ripe years, though he cannot make such improvement of it as the other. A child's 
hand may receive a pearl as well as the hand of a giant ; so may a weak faith a Christ 
as well as a strong. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 339 

hath cost a soul many prayers and many tears, and many sighs, and 
many groans, and many complaints, when those sins that have been 
long buried shall be again revived, and meet the soul, and stare upon 
the soul, and say to the soul. We are thine, and we will follow thee ; 
we are thine, and we will haunt thee ; ^ ah, how will this cause a 
man's countenance to be changed, his thoughts to be troubled, his 
joints to be loosed, and his heart to be amazed. David and Job meet- 
ing with the sins of their youth, long after they were lamented and 
pardoned, makes their hearts startle and tremble, Ps. xxv. 7, Job xiii. 
26. Upon the new risings of old sins, the soul begins to question all, 
and thus to expostulate the case : Surely my estate is not good, my 
pardon is not sealed ; if it be, how comes these sins to be revived, to be 
remembered? Hath not God engaged himself in the promises of grace, 
that those sins that are pardoned, shall never be remembered ? Isa. 
xliii. 25, Jer. xxxi. 34, and surely if these sins be not pardoned, I have 
reason to fear that others be not pardoned ; and if my sins be not 
pardoned, how shall I escape being destroyed ? Surely my repentance 
was not sound, my sorrow was not sincere, the blow, the wound I gave 
sin, was not mortal; if it had, how comes it to pass that it now meets 
me like an armed enemy? Thus, these new risings of old sins keeps 
many a man's soul and assurance asunder. 

(4.) Fourthly, A man may have grace and yet want assurance, and 
this may arise from his falling short of that 'perfection that the word 
requires, and that other saints have attained to} Ah ! says such a 
soul, surely I have no grace ! Oh how short do I fall of such and such 
righteous rules, and of such and such precious Christians ! Ah ! how 
clear are they in their light ! How strong are they in their love ! How 
high are they in their attainments ! How are their hearts filled with 
grace, and their lives with holiness! All their motions towards God, 
and towards man, speak out grace, grace; they pray indeed like saints, 
and live indeed like angels. Now many poor souls, comparing them- 
selves with the perfect rule of righteousness, and with those that are in 
the highest forms in Christ's school, and that are the noblest and 
choicest patterns for purity and sanctity, and finding such a vast dis- 
proportion between their hearts and the rule, between their actions 
and lives, and the actions and lives of others, they are apt to sit down 
sadded and discouraged.' 

Suetonius reports of Julius Caesar, that seeing Alexander's statue, 
he fetched a deep sigh, because he at that age had done so little.* So 
many precious souls sit do\\Ti sighing and weeping, that they have 
lived so long, and done so little for God, and for their own internal and 
eternal good. This wounds and sinks their spirits, that they are so 

* It woiiW very much discomfort us and terrify us to see one haunt us that was long 
since laid in the grave, whose resurrection we did neither fear nor repent,* till the sound- 
ing of the last trumpet. — * Qu. ' expect'? — Ed. 

* Perfection is desirable on earth, but shall be only enjoyed in heaven. 

' It was a sweet saying of one, In libra ttio tcribunUtr omnes qui qnod possunt faciunt, ti 
quod debent non possiint. They are surely written all in God's book that do what they can, 
though they cannot but underdo. Remember this, though your consolation depends 
upon degrees of grace, yet your salvation depends upon the truth of grace. [Cf. Purnell, 
• TheiWay step by step to a Sound and Saving Conversion,' p. 99— which firooks here 
anticipates. — G.] 

* A commonplace in the Lives of Ctesar, early and modem. — G. 



340 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

unlike to those in grace, that they desire to be like unto in glory ; and 
that they are so far below such and such in spirituals, whom they are 
so far above in temporals.* 

(5.) Fifthly, A man may have true grace and yet want assurance, 
and this may arise from that smoke and clouds, those fears and doubts 
that corruption raises in the soul; so ihat the soul cannot see those 
excellent graces that othervjise might be discerned. Though there may 
be many precious gems and jewels in the house, yet the smoke may 
hinder a man from seeing them sparkle and shine. So though there 
may be many precious graces in the souls of saints, yet corruption may 
raise such a dust, such a smoke in the soul, that the soul is not able to 
see them in the beauty and glory. The well of water was near Hagar, 
but she saw it not till her eyes were opened by the Lord, Gen. xxi. 19, 
20. So grace is near the soul, yea, in the soul sometimes, and yet the 
soul doth not see it, till God opens the eye and shews it. ' The Lord 
was in this place,' saith Jacob, ' and I knew it not,' Gen. xxviii. 16. So 
many a precious soul may say, grace was in my heart, and I knew it 
not, I saw it not.* 

Blessed Bradford in one of his epistles saith thus, ' O Lord, methinks 
I feel it so with me, sometimes as if there were no difference between 
my heart, and the heart of the wicked; my mind is as blind as 
theirs, my spirit as stout, stubborn, and rebellious as theirs, and my 
thoughts as confused as theirs, and my affections as disordered as theirs, 
and my services as formal as theirs,' &c.^ Ah, Christians ! have not 
many of your souls found it so ? Surely yes ! No wonder then, that 
though you have grace, yet you have not seen it sparkling and shining 
in your souls ; as some have thought that their fields have had no 
corn, because the}' have T)een so full of weeds; and that their heap hath 
no wheat, because nothing hath appeared but chaff; and that their 
pile hath no gold, because it hath been covered with much dross. So 
some have thought that their hearts have been void of grace, because 
they have been so full of fears and doubts. Peter at one time believes 
and walks, at another time he doubts and sinks. Mat. xiv, 30. Abra- 
ham believes and offers up Isaac at one time, he fears and falls at 
another time. ' Say thou art my sister, lest they kill me,' Gen xx. 2. 
So David and Job, they had their shufflings, tremblings, faintings, 
shakings, and questionings, Ps. cxvi. 11, Ps. xxxi. 22. It is not always 
high water with saints, sometimes they are reduced to a very low ebb. 
The best of saints are like the ark, tossed up and down with waves, 
with fears and doubts ; and so it will be till they are quite in the bosom 
of Christ.* 

(6.) Lastly, A man may have grace, and yet not see it, yet not know 
it ; and this may arise from his non-searching, his non-examining y 
his non-ransacking, of his own soul. There is gold in the mine, and 

> The being of grace is a different thing from the seeing of grace. The blind man in 
the Gospel called his faith unbelief. 

« Yet a saint at worst is not like him in Plutarch, who would not be resolved of his 
doubts because he would not lose the pleasure in seeking for resolution. No ; he loves, 
and looks, and longs for resolution to all his doubts. 

3 Wiitings of Bradford, by Townsend, 1863 : Letters.— G. 

* Eara hora, brevii mora. — Bernard. 



KOM. VIII. 32-34.] HEAVEN ON EARTH. 341 

men might find it, if they would but dig and search diligently after it/ 
There is grace in the heart, and you might see it, if you would but take 
the candle of the Lord, and look narrowly after it. Look, as many a 
man upon a diligent search may find his temporal estate to be better 
than he apprehends it, so many choice souls upon a diligent search may 
find their spiritual estate to be far better than they conceived or judged 
it to be. Therefore souls, cease from complaining, cease from rash 
judging and dooming of yourselves to hell, and be diligent in inquiring 
what the Lord hath done, and what the Lord is a-doing, in you and for 
you. Compare the books together, compare his working upon you and 
others together. What ! is there no light, no love, no longings, no 
hungerings, no thirstings after God ? What ! is there no sighing, no 
complaining, no mourning, under the sense of sin, and under the want 
of divine favour V Surely if you search, you will find some of these 
things ; and if you do, prize them as jewels that are more worth than a 
world. God will not despise ' the day of small things,' and will you ? 
Will you, dare you, say that that is little that is more worth than 
heaven ? The least spark of grace shall at last be turned into a crown 
of glory. Well ! remember this, that as the least grace, if true and 
sincere, is sufficient to salvation, so the sense of the least grace should 
be sufficient to your consolation. 

The fourth proposition is this, viz.. That God may deny assurance 
long, and yet give it in to his children at last, after patient waiting. 
God appears to David, and brings him out of 'an horrible pit' (or out 
of a ' pit of noise'), ' and sets his feet upon a rock, and puts a new song 
into his mouth,' Ps. xl. 1-4. 

After the church in the Canticles had run through many hazards and 
hardships, many difficulties and dangers, she finds ' him whom her soul 
loved,' chap. iii. 5. 

The prophet sits down and bewails his sad condition thus : Ps. Ixix. 
8, 20, ' I am weary of my crying ; my throat is dried : mine eyes fail 
while I wait on my God. And I am full of heaviness ; and I looked 
for some to take pity, but there was none ; and for comforters, but I 
found none.' Ay, but at last God appears, and then says he : ' I will 
praise the name of God with a song, and will magnify him with 
thanksgiving,' ver. 30. 

Job sighs it out : ' Behold I go forward, but he is not there ; and 
backward, but I cannot perceive him : on the left hand, where he doth 
work, but I cannot behold him : he hideth himself on the right hand, 
that I cannot see him,' Job viii. 9. But after this sighing, he sings it 
out : ' Till I die, I will not remove my integrity from me. My right- 
eousness I hold fast, and will not let it go : my heart shall not reproach 
me so long as I live,' chap, xxvii. 5, 6.* 

• Worthless daisies grow in sight upon the surface of the earth, but tho^ precious and 
richest rarities are hid within the bowels of the earth. You are wise, and know how to 
apply it. 

* The cry that was heard in the temple was, Migremu» hinc, Let us go hence, let us go 
hence. [Josephus, Jewish War, Book vi. — G.] 

' Experience doth abundantly evidence, that this is the manner of God's dealing with 
abundance of those precious souls of whom this world is not worthy. I could say much 
to this point from my own knowledge, but I must forbear lighting a candle to see the 
son at noon. 



w 



342 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

Mr Frogmoiton was as holy and as choice a preacher as most was in 
England in those days, and he lived seven and thirty years without 
assurance, and then died, having assurance but an hour before he died. 
He went to die at Mr Dod's, who is now with the Lord, and did die 
there in full assurance of the justification of his person, the remission of 
his sins, and the salvation of his soul.^ God denied assurance a great 
while to Mr Glover, though he sought it with many prayers and tears ; 
and 3'et when he was in sight of the fire, the Lord sinned forth in his 
favour so sweetly upon him, that he cries out to his friend, ' lie is come, 
he is come ''^ So Mrs Katherine Bretterge, after many bitter conflicts 
with Satan the day before she died, she had sweet assurance of that 
kingdom that shakes not, of those riches that corrupt not, and of that 
crown of righteousness that fades not away.^ 

I have read of three martyrs that were bound and brought to the 
stake, and one of them gets from under his stake to admiration, and 
falls down upon the ground, and wrestles earnestly with God for the 
sense of his love, and God gave it him then at that instant, and so 
he came and embraced the stake, and died cheerfully and resolutely 
a glorious martyr. God delayed till he was bound, and then lets out 
himself sweetly and gloriously to him.* 

Now God doth delay the giving in of assurance to his dearest ones, 
and that partly to let them know that he will be waited ou, and that 
assurance is a jewel worth waiting for. 

The least smile from God when our last glass is running, will make 
our souls amends for all their waiting. And partly that we may know 
that he is free in his workings, and that he is not tied to any prepara- 
tions or qualifications in the creature, but is free to come when he will, 
and go when he will, and stay as long as he will, though the soul doth 
sigh it out, ' How long, Lord, how long will it be before my mourning be 
turned into rejoicing ?' 

Again, God delays the giving in of assurance, not because he delights 
to keep his children in fears and doubts, nor because he thinks that 
assurance is too rare, too great, too choice a jewel to bestow upon them ; 
but it is either because he thinks their souls do not stand at a sufficient 
distance from sin, or because their soids are so taken up and filled with 
creature enjoyments as that Christ is put to lodge in an out-house, or 
else it is because they pursue not after assurance with all their might ; 
they give not all diligence to make their calling and election sure ; or 
else it is because their hearts are not prepared, are not low enough, for 
so high a favour.* 

Now God's delaying assurance upon these weighty grounds should 
rather work us to admire him, to justify him, and quietly to wait for him, 
than to have any hard thoughts of him, or to carry it unkindly to him, or 
impatiently to say, * Why is his chariot so long a-coming ?' Judges v. 28. 

The fifth proposition is this. That those choice souls that have assur- 
ance may lose it, they may forfeit it. The freshness and greenness, the 
beauty, lustre, and glory of assurance may be lost. 

* See Index, sub Frogmorton.— G. * See Vol. I. p. 109.— G. 
3 Ibid. p. 116.— G. 

* Hudson, Ibid, p. 109 G. Voluntat Dei neeessitas ret, God will have every child of 

hi* to put his fiat, hia placet, to God's, go it never so much against the liaira. 

' Isa, lix. 1, 2 ; Jeremiah t. 25 ; Luke ii. 7 ; 2 Peter ii. 5. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34] heaven on earth. 343 

It is true, believers cannot lose the habits, the seeds, the root of 
grace ; yet they may lose assurance, which is the beauty and fragrancy, 
the crown and glory of grace, J John iii. 9, 1 Peter i. 5. These two 
lovers, grace and assurance, are not by God so nearly joined together 
but that they may by sin on our side, and justice on God's, be put 
asunder. The keeping of these two lovers, grace and assurance, together, 
will yield the soul two heavens, a heaven of joy and peace here, and a 
heaven of happiness and blessedness hereafter ; but the putting these 
two lovers asunder will put the soul into a hell here, though it escape a 
hell hereafter. This Chrysostom knew well, when he professed that the 
want of the enjoyment of God would be a far greater hell to him than 
the feeling of any punishment,' 

As you would keep your Christ, as you would keep your comfort, as 
you would keep your crown, keep grace and assurance together, and 
neither by lip nor life, by word nor works, let these be put asunder. It 
is possible for the best of men so to blot and blur their evidences for 
felicity and glory, as that they may not be able to read them nor under- 
stand them. They may so vex and grieve the Spirit either by gross 
enormities, or by refusing his comforts and cordials, or by neglecting or 
slighting his gracious actings in themselves and others, or by misjudging- 
his work, as calling faith fancy, or sincerity hypocrisy, &c., or by father- 
ing those brats upon him that are the children of their own distempered 
hearts, as that he may refuse to witness their interest in him, though 
he be a witnessing Spirit, and refuse to comfort them, though he be the 
only Comforter.^ 

The best believer that breathes may have his summer-day turned 
into a winter-night, his rejoicing into sighing, his singing into weeping, 
his wedding-robes into mourning weeds, his wine into water, his sweet 
into bitter, his manna, his angels' food, into husks, his pleasant grapes 
into the grapes of Sodom, his fruitful Canaan, his dehghtful paradise, 
into a barren and unlovely wilderness. Look, as faith is often attended 
with unbelief, and sincerity with hypocrisy, and humility with vain- 
glory, so is assurance with fears and doubts.^ 

Blessed Hooker* hved near thirty years in close communion with 
God, without any considerable withdrawings of God all that while ; 
and yet, upon his dying bed, he went away without any sense of assur- 
ance, or discoveries of the smiles of God, to the wonder and deceiving 
of the expectation of many precious souls, and without doubt in judg- 
ment to wicked men. 

Look, as many a man loses the sight of the city when he comes near 
to it, so many a choice soul loses the sight of heaven, even then when 
he is nearest to heaven. Abraham, you know, had assurance in an 
extraordinary way concerning his protection from God ; and yet says 

* It is wonderful rare, if possible, for a soul that ever had a ■well-grounded assurance 
not to experience this truth at first or last. A separation between the body and the Boul 
will not so torment the soul as separation between grace and assurance. 

^ Spiritus tanclus eat ret delieata, the Holy Spirit is a very tender thing, 1 Sam. zvi., 
and John xiv. 

* What Latimer said of the Spirit, It is going and coming, may be truly said of assur- 
ance, and joy, It is coming and going. So did Master Burroughs, of blessed memory, go 
into heaven in a cloud. [That is, Jeremiah Burroughs, He died in 1646. — G,] 

* Thomas Hooker, afterwards of New England. He died 1647. — G. 



344 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

Abraham, * Say thou art my sister ; for otherwise they will kill me,' 
Gen. xii. 13, and xx. 2. Ah ! how was the freshness, the greenness, the 
beauty and glory of his assurance wore off, that he should, out of 
slavish fears, expose his wife to other men's pleasure, and himself and 
his neighbour to God's displeasure ; that he should wound four at once, 
the honour of God, his wife's chastity, his own conscience, and Pharaoh's 
soul.^ 

David, you know, sometimes sings it out sweetly : ' The Lord is my 
portion, and the lot of mine inheritance ; he is my salvation : of whom 
shall I be afraid ? He is my rock and fortress, and my deliverer, my 
God, my strength, my trust, my buckler, and my high tower,' Ps. xviii. 
2. At other times you have him sighing it out : ' Why art thou cast 
down, my soul ? why art thou disquieted in me ? why hast thou 
forgotten me X Ps. xlii. 5. ' O God, my rock ! why go I mourning' ? 
' Thine arrows stick fast in me, and thy hand presseth me sore. There 
is no soundness in my flesh because of thine anger ; neither is there 
any rest in my bones because of my sin. For mine iniquities are gone 
over my head ; as an heavy burden they are too heavy for me. I am 
troubled ; I am bowed down greatly ; I go mourning all the day long,' 
Ps. xxxviii. 2-6. ' Thou didst hide thy face, and I was troubled,' Ps. 
XXX. 7. * Restore to me the joy of my salvation, that the bones that 
thou hast broken may rejoice,' Ps. li. 12. His heart was more often 
out of tune than his harp. He begins many of his psalms sighing, and 
ends them singing ; and others he begins in joy, and ends in sorrow ; 
* So that one would think,' saith one, ' that those psalms had been 
composed by two men of a contrary humour.'* Yea, it is very observ- 
able, that though David had assurance in an extraordinary way that he 
should be king, being anointeil by that great prophet Samuel, yet the 
lustre and glory of this assurance wears off; and he, overcome by 
slavish fears, cries out, that * All men are liars,' (even Samuel as well 
as others), and that ' he shall one day perish by the hand of Saul.'* 
It is true, says David, I have a crown, a kingdom in a promise ; but I 
must swim to the crown through blood, I must win the crown before I 
wear it ; and the truth is, I am like to die before I attain it. Yea, and 
after he was kipg, when king Jesus did but hide his face, he was sorely 
troubled ;* so that neither his glorious throne, nor his royal robes, nor 
his golden crown, nor his glistering courtiers, nor his large revenues, nor 
his cheerful temper, nor his former experiences, could quiet him or 
satisfy him when God had turned his back upon him. Look, as all 
lights cannot make up the want of the light of the sun, so all temporal 
comforts cannot make up the want of one spiritual comfort. 

So Job sometimes sings it out, 'My witness is in heaven, and my 
record is on high ; and my Redeemer lives,' &c.. Job xvi. 19, and xix. 
25. At other times you have him complaining, ' The arrows of the 

' We should rather die than lie. We are not to tell an officious [i. e. forward to lie] 
lie, lo tell a lie for no hurt, hut for no good, though it were to save all the world, said 
Austin. 

* Peter du Moulin. [Better known as Molinseus. — 6.] 

' Ps, cxvi. 11, *tBn, In my trembling, or in my affrightment, I said, all men are liars. 

* Ps. XXX. 6, 7, Sn3, Bahal. I was troubled like a withered flower that loseth sap 
and vigour; so it is used in Exod. xv. 15. When God is gone, it is night with the 
soul. 



EOM. VIII. 32-34.] HEAVEN ON EARTH. 345 

Almighty stick fast in me, and their poison drinketh up my spirit,' 
Job vi. 4 ; ' The terrors of God do set themselves in array against me.' 
And chap. xxix. 2—5, you have him sighing it out thus : ' Oh that I 
were as in months past, as in the days when God preserved me ; when 
his candle shined upon my head, and when by his light I walked through 
darkness ; as I was in the days of my youth, when the secret of God 
was upon my tabernacle ; when the Almighty was yet with me !' &c.^ 

Now, by all these clear instances, and by many other saints' experi- 
ences, it is evident that the choicest saints may lose their assurance, 
and the lustre and glory of it may decay and wither. What the soul 
should do in such a case, and how it should be recovered out of this 
sad state, I shall shew you towards the close of this discourse. 

The sixth proposition is this. That the certainty and infallibility 
of a Christian's assurance cannot be made known to any but his own 
heart. He can say as the blind man once said, ' This I know, that once 
I was blind, but now I see,' John ix. 25. Once I was a slave, but now 
I am a son ; once I was dead, but now I am alive ; once I was dark- 
ness, but now I am light in the Lord ; once I was a child of wrath, an 
heir of hell, but now I am an heir of heaven ; once 1 was Satan's bond- 
man, but now I am God's freeman ; once I was under the spirit of 
bondage, but now I am under the spirit of adoption, that seals up to 
me the remission of my sins, the justification of my person, and the 
salvation of my soul.* All this I know, says the assured saint ; but I 
cannot make you know it certainly and infallibly if you would give me 
a thousand worlds.' What I have found and felt, and what I do find 
and feel, is wonderfully beyond what I am able to express. I am as 
well able to tell the stars of heaven, and to number the sand of the 
sea, as I am able to declare to you the joy, the joy, the unconceivable 
joy, the assurance, the glorious assurance, that God hath given me. 

Severinus, the Indian saint, under the power of assurance, was heard 
to say, O my God ! do not for pity so over-joy me ; if I must still 
live, and have such consolations, take me to heaven, &c. So say souls 
under the power of assurance : Lord ! we are so filled with joy and 
comfort, with delight and content, that we are not able to express it 
here on earth ; and therefore take us to heaven, that we may have that 
glory put upon us, that may enable us to declare and manifest those 
glorious things that thou hast wrought in us.* 

Parents do by experience feel such soundings, such meltings, such 
rollings, such sweet workings of their affections and bowels towards 
their children, that for their lives they cannot to the life describe to 
others what it is to be a father, to be a mother ; what it is to have 
such rollings of bowels towards children. Assurance is that white stone 
that none knoweth but he that hath it : Rev. ii. 17, 'To him that 

^ Tota vita boni Christiani sanctum desiderium est, tbe whole life of a good Christian is 
an holy wish, said one. 

2 Rom. viii. 6, 11, 18 ; Eph. v. 8, and ii. 3 ; John viii. 36 ; 2 Cor. iii. 17 ; Gal. i. I, 13 ; 
Eph. i. 13, 14. 

' Can you compass the heavens with a span, or contain the sea in a nutshell ? Then 
may you fully evidence your assurance to others. 

* ,1 Peter i. 8. So my young Lord Harrington [Funeral Sermon by Stock, 1614. — G.], 
and Nazianzen, and Vincentius, and Faninus an Italian martyr, with many more that 
might be named. [Vincentius, Clarke, as before, pp. 34, 86 ; Faninus, ibid. — G.] 



346 HEAVEN ON EAKTH, [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

overcometh will I give to eat of the hidden manna, and give him a 
white stone, and in the stone a new name written, which no man 
knoweth saving he that receiveth it." White stones were in great use 
among the Romans. 

(1 .) In white stones they used to write the names of such as were 
victorious and conquerors ; so in that text, ' To him that overcometh, 
will I give a white stone.' 

(2.) They used to acquit the innocent in courts of justice, by giving 
them a white stone ; and so here the white stone points out absolution 
and remission.* 

(3.) They used to give a white stone to those that were chosen to any 
places of honour ; so the white stone of assurance is an evidence of our 
election, of our being chosen to a kingdom that shakes not, to riches 
that corrupt not, and to a crown of glory that fades not. And thus 
much for this sixth proposition, viz., that the certainty and infallibility 
of a Christian's assurance cannot be made known to any but his own 
heart, Heb. xii. 28 ; Mat. vi. 20 ; 1 Pet. i. 4. 

The seventh proposition is this, That there are some special seasons 
and times, ivherein the Lord is graciously pleased to give to his children 
a sweet assurance of his favour and love, and tliey are these that follow. 

I. First, Sometimes, I say not always, at first conversion, the Lord 
is pleased to raake out sweet manifestations of his love to the penitent 
soul. When the soul hath been long under guilt and wrath, when the 
soul hath been long under the frowns and displeasure of God, and hath 
long seen the gates of heaven barred against him, and the mouth of 
hell open to receive him ; when the soul hath said, Surely there is no 
hope, there is no help, surely I shall lose God, Christ and heaven for 
ever, then God comes in and speaks peace to the soul, then he says, ' I 
will blot out thy iniquities for my name's sake, and will remember thy 
sins no more,' Isa. xliii. 25. Hark, soul, hark, says Christ, ' My thoughts 
are not as your thoughts, nor my ways as your ways,' Isa. Iv. 8, 9. My 
thoughts towards you are thoughts of peace and thoughts of love. 
Hark, soul ! here is mercy to pardon thee, and here is grace to adorn 
thee ; here is righteousnessto justify thee ; here is eye-salve to enlighten 
thee, and gold to enrich thee, and raiment to clothe thee, and balm to heal 
thee, and bread to nourish thee, and wine upon the lees to cheer thee, 
and happiness to crown thee, and myself to satisfy thee. Ah, souls ! 
have not some of you found it so ? surely you have.^ 

God deals sometimes with rebellious sinners, as princes do with those 
that are in arms, that are in open rebellion against them. You know 
princes will put such hard to it : they shall fare hard, and lie hard ; chains, 
and racks, and what not, shall attend them ; and yet after the sentence 
is passed upon them, and they are upon the last step of the ladder of life, 
ready to be turned off, and all hope of escape is gone, then the prince's 
pardon is put into their hand.* So the Lord brings many poor souls to 
the last steps of the ladder, to a hopeless condition, and then he puts 
their pardon into their bosoms ; then he says, ' Be of good cheer, I have 

* Vide Beza, BuUinger, Pererius, and Brightman, on the words. 

2 And they gave black stones to note their condemnation. 

3 I Cor, i. 30 ; Rev. iii. 18 ; Isa. xxv. 6. 

* This hath been a practice among all princes, whether they have been Christians or 
heathens. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34-.] heaven on earth. 347 

received you into favour, I have set my love upon you, I am reconciled 
to you, and will never be separated from you.' 

You know how God dealt with Paul : after he had awakened and con- 
vinced him, after he had unhorsed him and overthrown him, after he 
had amazed and astonished him, then he shews himself graciously and 
favourably to him, then he takes him up into the third heaven, and 
makes such manifestations of his love and favour, of his beauty and 
glory, of his mercy and majesty, as he is not able to utter.* 

So upon the prodigal's return, the fatted calf is killed, and the best 
robe is put upon his back, and the ring is put on his hand, and shoes 
on his feet, Luke xv. 22, 23. 

Some understand by the robe, the royalty of Adam, others, the 
righteousness of Christ ; and by the ring, some understand the pledges 
of God's love, rings being given as pledges of love ; some the seal of 
God's Spirit, men using to seal with their rings.^ 

Among the Romans, the ring was an ensign of virtue, honour, and 
nobility, whereby they that wore them were distinguished from the 
common people. I think the main thing intended by all these pas- 
sages, is to shew us, that God sometimes upon the sinner's first conver- 
sion and returning to him, is graciously pleased to give him some choice 
and signal manifestations of his love and favour, of his good-will and 
pleasure, and that upon these following grounds : 

(1.) The first ground. That they may not be swallowed up of sor- 
row, nor give up the ghost under the pangs and throes of the new 
birth. Ah ! did not the Lord let in some beams of love upon the soul, 
when it is Magor-missabib, a terror to itself ; when the heart is a hell 
of horror, the conscience an Aceldama, a field of black blood ; when 
the soul is neither quiet at home nor abroad, neither at bed nor board, 
neither in company nor out of company, neither in the use of ordinances 
nor in the neglect of ordinances ; how would the soul faint, sink, and 
despair for ever !^ But now when it is thus night with the soul, the 
Lord sweetly comes in and tells the soul, that all is well, that he hath 
found a ransom for the soul, that the books are crossed, that all debts 
ai"e discharged, and that his favour and love upon the soul is fixed. Job 
xxxiii. 24. And so God by his sweet and still voice, speaking thus to 
the soul, quiets and satisfies it, and keeps it from sinking and despairing. 

(2.) 2'he second ground. God gives in assurance sometimes at first 
conversion, t/iat he may the more raise and inflame their love and 
affections to him. Ah ! how does a pardon given in when a man is 
ready to be turned off, draw out his love, and raise his affections to that 
prince that shews bowels of mercy, when he is upon the brink of misery !* 
So when a poor sinner is upon the last step of the ladder, upon the very 
brink of hell and misery, now for God to come in and speak peace and 
pardon to the soul, ah ! how does it inflame the soul, and works the 
soul to a holy admiration of God, and to a spiritual delighting in God ! 

' Acts ix. 3, Vide Bezam, et Grotium, et Calvin. 

' The dignity which Adam lost ; nay, I think in this parable God sets forth his good- 
ness and our happiness in restoring to us more by the death of the second Adam, than 
we lost by the sin of the first Adam. 

' An awakened conscience is like Prometheus's vulture, it lies ever gnawing. 

* Titus's motto was, Frinceps bonut orbia amor, all the world falls in love with a good 
prince, with a merciful prince. [Cf. Josephus, tub nomine. — G.] 



348 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34!. 

King Antigonus his pulliug a sheep with his own hands out of a 
dirty ditch, as he was passing by, drew his subjects exceedingly to com- 
mend him and love him.' So King Jesus pulling of poor souls out of 
their sins, and as it were out of hell, cannot but draw them to be much 
in the commendations of Christ, and strong in their love to Christ. 
Christ hath nothing more in his eye, nor upon his heart, than to act 
towards bis people in such ways and at such seasons as may most win 
upon their affections. And therefore it is, that sometimes he gives the 
strongest consolation at first conversion. 

(3.) Tlie third ground. Christ sometimes at first conversion grants 
to his people the sweetest manifestations of his love, that tliey may he 
the more active, fervent, abundant, and constant in ways of grace wnd 
holiness.^ He knows that divine manifestations of love will most 
awaken, quicken, and engage the soul to ways of piety and sanctity. 

Look what wings are to the bird, oil to the wheels, weights to the 
clock, a reward to the coward, and the loadstone to the needle, that are 
the smiles and discoveries of God to a poor soul at his conversion. The 
manifestatations of divine love puts heat and life into the soul, it makes 
the soul very serious and studious how to act for God, and live to God, 
and walk with God. Ah ! says a soul under the beams of divine love, 
it is my meat and drink, it is my joy and crown to do all I can for that 
God that hath done so much for me, as to know me in darkness, and 
to speak love to me when I was most unlovely ; to turn my mourning 
into rejoicing, and my hell into a heaven. 

(4.) The fourth ground. Christ sometimes at first conversion 
gives his people the sweetest manifestations of his love, to fence and 
fortify them against Saians fiery temptations. Before Christ shall be 
led into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil, the Spirit of the 
Lord shall descend upon him like a dove, and he shall hear a voice from 
heaven, saying, ' This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased/ 
Mat. iii. 16, 17,^ that so he may be strong in resisting, and glorious in 
triumphing over all the assaults and temptations of Satan, Eph. vi. 16. 
So many times at first conversion, the Lord makes out sweet mani- 
festations of his love to the soul, that so the soul may stand fast, and not 
give ground, and in the sense of divine love may so manage the shield 
of faith, as to quench ail the fiery darts of the devil. 

The Lord knows that when he sets upon the delivering of a poor soul 
from the kingdom of darkness, and translating it into the kingdom of 
his dear Son, that Satan will roar and rage, rend and tear, as he did 
him, Mark ix. 25, 26, ' When Jesus saw that the people came running 
together, he rebuked the foul spirit, saying unto him, Thou dumb and 
deaf spirit, I charge thee to come out of him. And the spirit cried, and 
rent him sore, and came out of him : and he was as one dead ; inso- 
much that many said. He is dead.' No sooner did Jesus Christ look 
with an eye of love, pity, and compassion upon the boy, but the devil 
in his rage and wrath falls a-renting and tearing of him, as mad dogs 

^ Diod. lib. xviii.-xx. ; Plutarch. Eumenes and Demetrius- — G. 

* Amor dei nunquam otiosus est ; operatur enim magna si est ; si vero operari renuit, amor 
nan est ; the love of God is never idle, for if it is, it worketh great things ; but if it re- 
fuse to work, it is not love. So said Bradford, and other blessed souls. 

• ivioKtifa. is an emphatical word, and signifies that infinite affection, delight, and con- 
tent that God the Father did take in Christ. 



Rom. VIII. 82-34.] HJiLiVEN on eakth. 349 

do things they fasten upon. This poor child had never so sore a fit as 
now he was nearest the cure. When rich mercy and glorious power is 
nearest the soul, then Satan most storms and rages against the soul. 
Col. i. 13.* The more the bowels of Christ do work towards a sinner, 
the more furious will Satan assault that sinner. Therefore divine 
wisdom and goodness does the more eminently shine in giving the poor 
soul some sight of Canaan, and some bunches and clusters of that land, 
upon its first coming out of the wilderness of sin and sorrow. 

But that no soul may mistake this last proposition, give me leave to 
premise these two cautions. 

[1.] The first caution. That God does manifest his love only to 
some at their first conversion, not to all. Though he dearly loves 
every penitent soul, yet he does not manifest his love at first conversion 
to every penitent souL God is a free agent, to work where he will, and 
when he will, and to reveal his love how he will, and when he will, and 
to whom he will. It is one thing for God to work a work of grace upon 
the soul, and another thing for God to shew the soul that work.^ 

God oftentimes works grace in a silent and secret way, and takes 
sometimes five, sometimes ten, sometimes fifteen, sometimes twenty 
years ; yea, sometimes more, before he will make a clear and satisfying 
report of his own work upon the soul. Though our graces be our best 
jewels, yet they are sometimes, at first conversion, so weak and imper- 
fect, that we are not able to see their lustre. The being of grace makes 
our estates safe and sure, the seeing of grace makes our lives sweet and 
comfortable. 

[2.] The second caution. A man may at first conversion have 
such a clear glorious manifestation of God's love to him, and of his 
interest in God, and his right to glory, that he may not have the like 
all his days after.^ The fatted calf is not every day slain, the robe of 
kings is not every day put on, every day must not be a festival day, a 
marriage day ; the wife is not every day in the bosom, the child is not 
every day in the arms, the friend is not every day at the table, nor the 
soul every day under the manifestations of divine love ; Jacob did not 
every day see the angels ascending and descending ; Stephen did not 
every day see the heavens open, and Christ standing on the right hand 
of God ; Paul was not every day caught up to heaven, nor John was 
not every day rapt up in the Spirit. No saint can every day cry out, 
I have my Christ, I have my comfort, I have my assurance, as the 
Persian king* cried out in his dream, ' I have Themistocles, I have 
Themistocles.' Job had his harp turned into mourning, and his organ 
into the voice of them that weep. Job xxx. 31. The best of saints are 
sometimes put to hang their harps upon the willows, and cry out, 
' Hath God forgotten to be gracious, and will he be favourable no more? ' 
Ps. cxxxvii. 2, Ixxvii. 7-9. 

1 Pharaoh in his furious and violent pursuing after Israel, when he saw that God 
would bring them from under his power, was a type of Satan. The Greek word pnfru, 
signifies to tear and rent as the dog doth. 

' A man may enjoy the warmth and heat of the sun when he cannot see the sun, so 
a man may have grace when he cannot see that he hath grace. 

' I have conversed with several precious souls that have found this true by experience, 
aiad upon this very ground have questioned all, and strongly doubted, whether that they 
have not taken Satan's delusions for divine manifestations. 

Viz., Artaierxes, as in Plutarch and Diodorus, under Themistocles. — G. 



350 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. S2-34. 

II. The[re is a] second special season or time wherein the Lord is 
pleased to give to his children a sweet assurance of his favour and love, 
and that is, when he intends to put theini iipon soTne high and hard, 
soTTie difficult and dangerous service} Oh then he gives them some 
sweet taste of heaven beforehand ; now he smiles, now he kisses, now 
he embraces the soul, now he takes a saint by the hand, now he causes 
his goodness and gloiy to pass before the soul, now he opens his bosom 
to the soul, now the soul shall be of his court and counsel, now the 
clouds shall be scattered, now it shall be no longer night with the soul, 
now the soul shall sit no longer mourning in the valley of darkness, now 
Christ will carry the soul up into the mount, and there reveal his glory 
to it, that it may act high and brave, noble and glorious in the face of 
difficulties and discouragements. Christ did intend to put Peter, James, 
and John upon hard and difficult service, and therefore brings them up 
into an high mountain, and there gives them a vision of his beauty and 
glory ; there they see him transfigured, metamoi-phosed, or transformed ; 
there they see his face shining as the sun, and his raiment glistering, 
Mat. xvii. 1-6. In the mount he shews them such beams of his deity, 
such sparkling glory, as did even amuse* and amaze them, transport 
them, and astonish them ; and all this grace and glory, this goodness 
and sweetness Christ shews them, to hearten and encourage them to 
own him and his truth, to stand by him and tFUth, to make him and his 
truth known to the world, though hatred, bonds, and contempt did 
attend them in so doing. 

Thus God dealt with Paul before he put him upon that hard and 
dangerous service that he had cut out for him. Acts ix. 1-23. He takes 
him up into heaven, and sheds abroad his love into his heart, and tells 
him that he is a chosen vessel ; he appears to him in the way, and fills 
him with the Holy Ghost, that is, with the gifts, graces, and comforts of 
the Holy Ghost, and straightway he falls upon preaching of Christ, upon 
exalting of Christ, to the amazing and astonishing of all that heard him.' 
And as he had more clear, full, and glorious manifestations of God's 
love and favour than others, so he was more frequent, more abundant, 
and more constant in the work and service of Christ than others, 2 Cor. 
xi. 21-33. 

And this hath been the constant dealing of God with the patriarchs, 
as with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, &c., and with the prophets, as with 
Moses, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, &c.* When he hath put them upon 
weighty services, he hath shed abroad his love into their hearts, he hath 
set his seal upon their spirits, and made them to know that he hath set 
them as a seal upon his hand ; he hath assured them of his countenance, 
and of his presence, and of his assistance; he hath told them, though 
others should desert them, yet he will stand by them, and strengthen 

' 2 Cor. V. 14, i.tnix'1- Divine love hath a compulsive faculty, it is very powerful to 
put the soul upon acting in the highest and hardest services for Christ. 

* ' Set them musing.' Cf. Glossary, sub voce — G. 

3 Chrysostom saith, that he was insatiabilis Dei cultor, an insatiable server of God. 

* It is sufficient to point at these instances, they are so notoriously known to all that 
know anything of the scripture in power. As he in Plutarch said of the Scythians, that 
although they had no music nor vines among them, yet, as better things, they had gods. 
So the saints, though they may want this and that outward encouragement in the service 
of God, yet they shall enjoy his presence, that is better than all other things in the world. 



Rom. Vni 32-34.] heaven on earth. 351 

them, and support them, and uphold them with the right hand of his 
righteousness ; he hath told them that his power should be theirs to 
defend them, and his wisdom should be theirs to direct them, and his 
goodness should be theirs to supply them, and his grace should be 
theirs to heal them, and his mercy should be theirs to pardon them, and 
his joy should be theirs to strengthen them, and his promise should be 
theirs to cheer them, and his Spirit should be theirs to lead them ; and 
this hath made them as bold as lions, this hath made them stedfast, 
and stand close to the work of God in the face of all dangers and diffi- 
culties ; this hath made them, with stout Nehemiah, scorn to desist or 
fly from the Avork of the Lord ; this hath made their bows to abide in 
strength, though the archers have shot sore at them. Now there are 
considerable reasons why God is pleased to give his children some sweet 
tastes of his love, some assurance of his favour, when he puts them upon 
some hard and difficult service, and they are these that follow. 

(1.) Tlie first reason. That they Tnay not faint nor falter in his ser- 
vice, but go through it resolutely and bravely, in the face of all diffi- 
culties and oppositions} When God put Joshua upon that hard 
service of leading and governing his people Israel, he assures him of his 
love and of his presence : ' Fear not, be of good courage, I am with 
thee,' Joshua i. 6. And this makes him hold on and hold out in the 
service of the Lord bravely and resolutely, in the face of all discourage- 
ments : ' Choose you whom you will serve, whether your fathers' gods 
or the gods of the Amorites ; but as for me, and my house, we will serve 
the Lord,' Joshua xxiv. 15. So when the Lord put Paul upon such 
service that occasioned bonds and afflictions to abide him in every city. 
Acts XX. 23, he gives him a taste of heaven beforehand, and lifts up the 
light of his countenance upon him, and this makes him resolute and 
bold in the work of the Lord. Now Paul will not consult with flesh 
and blood. Gal. i. 15-17; now it is not reproaches, nor stripes, nor 
prisons, nor whips, nor perils, nor deaths, that can make him look back, 
having put his hand to the Lord's plough. Oh ! the beamings forth of 
divine love upon his soul filled him with that courage and resolution 
that, with Shammah, one of David's worthies, he stands and defends the 
field, when others fall, and fly, and quit the field, 2 Tim. iv. 16, 17. 

(2.) The second reason : God gives his people some tastes of his love, 
some sense of his favour, when he puts them upon hard and difficult 
services, because else he should not only act below himself, as he is a 
wise God, a faithful God, a powerful God, a Tnerciful God, a inghteous 
God, <&c., but also act below his poor weak creatures.^ For what hus- 
band will put his wife, what father will put his child, what master will 
put his servant, what captain will put his soldier, what prince will put 
his ambassadors, upon hard and difficult services, but they will smile 
upon them, and speak kindly to them, and make large promises to 
honour their persons, and kindly to accept, and nobly to reward their 
services, &c. Surely none. And will God ? Will God, who will not 
give his glory to those that have the most glorious beings, suffer his 

• Apollonius, as Philostratus reports, being asked if he did not tremble at the sight of 
the tyrant, made this answer : God, which hath given him a terrible countenance, hath 
given also unto me an undaunted heart, &c. 

' And to imagine that ever the great God will act below the wisdom of those that are 
foolishness in the very abstract, is the greatest madness and blasphemy in the world. 



352 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

glory to be clouded and eclipsed by the prudent actings of weak worms ? 
Surely no. Isa. xlii. 8, and xlviii. 11. 

(3.) The third reason : God lifts up the light of his countenance upon 
his people when he puts them upon hard and difficult services, that they 
may never repent of listing themselves in his sei^ice.^ Ah ! did not 
the Lord warm the hearts of his people with the glorious beams of his 
love, when he puts them upon hard work, they would be ready, when, 
they meet with oppositions and hazards, to throw up all, and to sit 
down lamenting and repenting that ever they were engaged in his ser- 
vice. They would be as peevish and froward as Jonah, and with him 
venture a drowning, to shift off God's service." Ah ! but now the Lord, 
by letting his goodness drop upon their hearts, and by putting an. 
earnest-penny into their hands, he causes them to go cheerfully on in 
his work, without sighing or repenting. The kisses and embraces of 
God do put such life, such spirit, such mettle into their souls, as makes 
them bid defiance to the greatest dangers, and as crowns them con- 
querors of the greatest difficulties. Ah ! says a soul that hath walked 
some turns in paradise. What is dross to gold ! what is darkness to 
light ! what is hell to heaven ! No more are all difficulties and oppo- 
sitions to me, who have found the sweetness of divine grace, and have 
had the happiness to lie in the bosom of God. 

Diocletian, the worst and last persecutor in all the ten persecutions, 
observed, ' that the more he sought to blot out the name of Christ, the 
more it became legible ; and to block up the way of Christ, the more 
it became passable ; and whatever of Christ he thought to root out, it 
rooted the deeper, and rose the higher in the hearts and lives of the 
saints, among whom he had scattered the beams of his love and the rich 
pearls of his grace.'* Such souls as have once been in the arms of God, 
in the midst of all oppositions, they are as men made all of fire walking 
in stubble ; they consume and overcome all oppositions ; all difficulties 
are but as whetstones to their fortitude. The moon will run her course, 
though the dogs bark at it ; so will all those choice souls that have 
found warmth under Christ's wings run their Christian race in spite of 
all difficulties and dangers. The horse neighs at the trumpet, the 
leviathan laughs at the spear ; so does a saint, under the power of 
assurance, laugh at all hazards and dangers that he meets with in the 
Lord's service. The sense of God's love and goodness makes him to 
triumph over the greatest difficulties. 

(4.) The fourth reason, and lastly : God gives his people some tastes 
of his love when he puts them upon hard and difficult services^ that 
the mouths of the wicked may be stopped. Should God lay heavy bur- 
dens upon his people's shoulders, and not put under his fingers to give 
some ease ; should God double their tale of brick, and yet deny them 
straw ; should God engage them against a potent enemy, and then 
desert them ; should God send them upon some weighty embassage, 
and not give proportionable encouragements to them, what would the 

^ Solus amor nescit difficultates, lore knows no diflBeulties. 

' Melancthon was such a man, whom Luther encourages thus : Why should we fear a 
conquered world, that have Christ the conqueror on our side? &c. [Correspondence 
during the Diet of Augsburg, 1530. Cf. Sibbes's Works, vol. i. p. 126.-0.] 

'As they said once of the Grecians in the epigram, whom they thought invulnerable, 
We shoot at them, but they fall not down ; we wound them, and yet not kill them. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 353 

world say? Exod. xxxii. 12, Num. xiv. 12-16. Would tbey not say 
that he is a hard master, and that his ways are not equal ? Would they 
not say, Verily they are liars that say he is glorious in power, and won- 
derful in counsel, and infinite in mercy, and admirable in goodness, and 
rich in grace, and unsearchable in his understanding ? For surely were 
he, he could not, he would not, put his children upon such hard and 
dangerous services, but he would own them, and stand by them ; he 
would assist them, and smile upon them ; he would be as careful to 
bring them bravely off, as he hath been ready to bring them freely on 
Oh ! he could not see them in garments rolled in blood, but his bowels 
would yearn towards them, and he would arise, and have mercy on 
them. 

III. Then, thirdly, Waiting times are times wherein God is pleased 
to give his people some secret tastes of his love, and to lift up the light 
of his countenance upon them: * I waited patiently' for the Lord,' saith 
David, ' and he inclined unto me, and heard my cry. He brought me 
up also out of an hoixible pit' (or out of a pit of noise), 'out of the 
miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock, and established my goings. 
And he hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God,' 
Ps. xl. 1-3. After God had exercised David's patience in waiting, he 
sweetly breaks in upon him, and knocks off his bolts, and opens the 
prison doors, and takes him by the hand, and leads him out of the pit 
of noise and confusion, in which he was, and causes his love and good- 
ness so to beam forth upon him as causes his heart to rejoice, and his 
tongue to sing. So after devout Simeon had waited for the consolation 
of Israel, that is, for Christ's coming, the Holy Ghost falls upon him, 
and leads him to a sight of Christ in the temple, and this makes the 
good old man sing, Nunc dimittis, Now, let thy servant depart in 
peace, Luke ii. 25-33. Ah ! says Simeon, I have lived long enough ! 
now I have got Christ in my heart, and Christ in my arms, who is my 
light, my life, my love, my joy, my crown, let me depart, according to 
thy word. Ah ! saints, I appeal to you, have not many of you found by 
experience the sweet breathings of Christ upon you, even whilst you 
have been waiting at the door of mercy ? while you have been weeping 
and waiting, hath not the Lord Jesus come in and said, * Peace be to 
you ' ; ' Waiting souls, be of good cheer, it is I; be of good cheer, your 
sins are pardoned' ? Surely you have. Hath not God made that word 
good unto you, ' Wait on the Lord, be of good courage, and he shall 
strengthen thine heart : wait, I say, on the Lord ' ? Ps. xxvii. 24< ; yes. 
And hath he not made that good to you, ' They shall not be ashamed 
that wait for me ' ? Isa. xlix. 23 ;* that is, they shall not be deceived, 
or disappointed of their hopes and expectations, that wait for me. Yes. 
And have you not found that word made sweet to your souls, * There- 
fore will the Lord wait, that he may be gracious : blessed are all they 
that wait for him ' ? Yes. And hath not the Lord made that word good 
to you, ' The Lord is good unto them that wait for him, to the soul 

^ *nMp nip waiting, I waited. 

* These words, •shall not be ashamed,' in the Hebrew dialect, do not simply import that 
Buch shall not be brought to shame, or shall not perish, but that he shall be advanced to 
great dignity and glory, to everlasting happiness and blessedness. 

VOL. II. Z 



SS-i HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

that seeketh him' 1 Lam. iii. 25. Yes. Waiting souls, remember this 
assurance is yours, but the time of giving it is the Lord's ; the jewel is 
yours, but the season in which he will give it is in his own hand ; the 
gold chain is yours, but he only knows the hour wherein he will put it 
about your necks. Well ! wait patiently and quietly, wait expectingly, 
wait believingly, wait affectionately, and wait diligently, and you shall 
find that scripture made good in power upon your souls, ' Yet a little 
while, and he that shall come will come, and will not taiTy,' Heb. x. 37, 
(jfitxfov gov sov), Hab. ii. 3, He will certainly come, he will seasonably 
come, he will suddenly come, as the prophet Malachi speaks : ' Behold, 
I will send ray messenger, and he shall prepare the way before me: and 
the Lord, whom ye seek, shall suddenly come to his temple, even the 
messenger of the covenant whom ye delight in : behold, he shall come, 
saith the Lord of hosts,' Mai. iii. 1. Well ! I will say but this, if assur- 
ance of God's love be not a jewel worth a waiting for, it is worth no- 
thing. 

IV. Fourthly, Suffering times are times wherein the Lord is pleased 
to give his people some sense of his favour.^ When they are in suffer- 
ings for righteousness' sake, for the gospel's sake, then usually God causes 
his face to shine upon them.^ Now they shall hear best news from 
heaven when they hear worst from earth. God loves to smile most upon 
his people when the world frowns most. When the world puts their 
iron chains upon their legs, then God puts his golden chains about their 
necks ; when the world puts a bitter cup into their hands, then God 
drops some of his honey, some of his goodness and sweetness into it. 
When the world is ready to stone them, then God gives them the white 
stone ; and when the world is a-tearing their good names, then he gives 
them a new name, that none knows but he that hath it, a name that is 
better than that of sons and daughters. When the world cries out, 
' Crucify them, crucify them,' then they hear that sweet voice from 
heaven, ' These are my beloved ones, in whom I am well pleased.' When 
the world clothes them with rags, then the Lord puts on his royal 
robes, and makes a secret proclamation to their spirits, * Thus shall it 
be done to the men whom the King is pleased to honour.' When the 
world gives into one hand a cup of water, God gives into the other a 
cup of nectar, a cup of ambrosia. When the world gnasheth upon them, 
and presents all imaginary tortures before them, then the Lord opens 
paradise to them, as he did to Stephen. When Paul and Silas were in 
prison for the gospel's sake, then God fills them with such unspeakable 
joy, that they cannot but be singing when others were sleeping, Acts 
xvi. 23, 24. God turns their prison into a palace, a paradise, and they 
turn his mercies into praises. Paul and Silas found more pleasure than 
pain, more joy than sorrow, more sweet than bitter, more day than night, 
in the prison.^ 

God will make some beams of his goodness and glory to break 
through stone walls, to warm and glad the hearts of his suffering ones. 

' Kon poena sed causa facit martyrem. 

* Adversiis pentet, gratias agimus quod H molestii dominit liberemur, saith one : We thank 
you for delivering us from hard taskmasters, that we may enjoy more sweetly the bosom 
of Christ. 

• Methinks, said one, I tread upon pearls, when he trod upon hot burning coals : and 
I feel no more pain than if I lay in a bed of down ; and yet he lay in flames of lire. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 355 

When John was banished into the isle of Patraos, ' for the word of God 
and the testimony of Jesus,' Rev. i. 9, 10, then he is filled with the 
Spirit, and hath the choicest manifestations, and the most glorious reve- 
lations that ever he had all his days.' Now God makes him one of his 
court and counsel, and tells him what glorious and mighty things shall 
be in the latter days. Now he is in a spiritual rapture and ecstasy, and 
carried above himself, and above all outward things, to attend those 
glorious visions that God would make known to him. 

It was God's lifting up the light of his countenance that made the 
martyrs to sing in the fire, to clap their hands in the flames, and to 
tread upon hot burning coals as upon beds of roses. This made one say, 
when he felt the flame come to his beard, ' What a small pain is this, to 
be compared to the glory to come ? What is a drop of vinegar put into 
an ocean of wine ? What is it for one to have a rainy day, that is going 
to take possession of a kingdom ?* The smiles of God made another to 
sing under dreadful sufferings, Ghristianus sum, I am a Christian ;^ 
and this made the Christians to sing, in Tertullian's time, Grudelitas 
vestra gloria nostra, your cruelty is our glory.* 

This made a French martyr to say, when the rope was about his fel- 
low's neck, ' Give me that golden chain, and dub me a knight of that 
noble order.' This made another to desire, when he was to die, the 
favour of having his chains buried with him, as the ensigns of his 
honour.* 

This made Basil say, * Fire, sword, prison, famine, are all a pleasure, 
a delight unto me.' This made Paul to rattle his iron chains, and to 
glory in it, more than worldly men glory in all their outward glory. 

This made Theodoret to complain, that his persecutors did him wrong, 
when they took him off the rack, and ceased tormenting of him ; for, 
said he, ' All the while I was on the rack, I found methought there 
was a young man in white, an angel stood by me, which wiped off the 
sweat ; and I found a great deal of sweetness in it, which now I have 
lost.« 

To conclude, the smiles of God upon the prisonei-sof hope,is that which 
makes them more cheerful and delightful in their sufferings than Jesus 
Christ was in his. 

When Faninus, an Italian martyr, was asked by one, why he was so 
merry at his death, sith Christ himself was so sorrowful : ' Christ,' said 
he, ' sustained in his soul all the sorrows and conflicts with hell and 
death, due to us, by whose sufferings we are delivered from sorrow, and 
fear of them all ; and therefore we have cause of rejoicing in the greatest 
sufferings.^ 

Now there are these special reasons to be given, why the Lord is 
pleased in suffering times to visit his people with his loving-kindness, 
and to lift up the light of his countenance upon them. 

* He was banished thither by Domitian, the tyrant. Vide Euseb. lib. ill. cap. xviii. ; 
vick Pliny, lib. iv. cap. xii. [Rather cap. xxiii., The Sporades — G.] 

• Vincentius. [Clarke's ' Martyrologie,' as be/ore, pp. 34, 36.— G.] 

» Sanctus. [Ibid. p. 31.— G.] * Apology.— G. 

' Nihil senlil crvx in tiervo, quando animus est in calo. [The reference is to Fournier 
of Chalons. Clarke, a$ before, pp. 233, 234.— G.] 

® Sufferings are the ensigns of heavenly nobility. No wonder then that the saints are 
6o joyful under them. [Clarke, as before. — G.] ^ Ibid. — G. 



356 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34). 

(1.) The first reason. That their patience and constancy under tlie 
cross may be invincible} God knows right well, that if his left hand 
in suffering times be not under his people, and his right hand over them, 
if he does not give them some sips of sweetness, some relishes of good- 
ness, tliey would quickly grow impatient and inconstant. Oh, but now the 
smiles of God, the gracious discoveries of God, makes their patience 
and constancy invincible, as it did Vincentius, who by his patience and 
constancy madded his tormentors ; wherefore they stripped him stark 
naked, whipped his body all over to a gore blood, sprmkled salt and 
vinegar over all his wounds, set his feet on burning coals, then cast him 
naked into a loathsome dungeon, the pavement whereof was sharp 
shells, and his bed to lie on a bundle of thorns. All which this blessed 
martyr received, without so much as a groan, breathing out his spirit in 
these words, * Vincentius is my name, and by the grace of God I will 
be still Vincentius, in spite of all your torments.' Persecution brings 
death in one hand and life in the other ; for while it kills the body it 
crowns the soul.* 

The most cruel martyrdom is but a crafty trick to escape death, to 
pass from life to life, from the prison to paradise, from the cross to the 
crown. 

Justin Martyr says, that when the Romans did immortalise their em- 
perors, as they called it, they brought one to swear that he see [saw?] him 
go to heaven out of the fire. But we may see, by an eye of faith, the 
blessed souls of suffering saints fly to heaven, like Elias in his fiery 
chariot, like the angel that appeared to Manoah in the flames. Judges 
xiii. 20.=* 

John Huss, martyr, had such choice discoveries of God, and such 
sweet incomes of the Spirit, as made his patience and constancy in- 
vincible. When he was brought forth to be burned, they put on his 
head a triple crown of paper, painted over with ugly devils ; but when 
he saw it, he said, ' My Lord Jesus Christ, for my sake, did wear a 
crown of thorns ; why should not I then for his sake wear this light 
crown, be it never so ignominious? Truly I will do it, and that willingly.' 
And as they tied his neck with a chain to the stake, smiling, he said, 
' That he would willingly receive the same chain for Jesus Christ's sake, 
who he knew was bound with a far worse chain for his sake.'* Well ! 
remember this, their names that by a patient suffering are written in 
red letters of blood in the church's calendar, are written in golden letters 
in Christ's. register, in the book of life. 

(2.) The second reason. A second reason why the Lord lifts up the 
light of his countenance upon his people in suffering times, and that is, 
for the confirmation of some, for the conversion of others, and for the 
greater conviction and confusion of their adversaries, who wonder, 
and are like men amazed, when they see the comfort and ike courage 

' Christian fortitude is inferendo, non inferiendo, not in smiting, but suffering. 

* Wil. Flower, ApoUonius, Basil, Fulgentius, Giles of Brussels, Alexander, Hales, 
Polycarpus, Calvin, Luther, Brentius, BuUinger, these and many more have been 
eminent in patience under sore trials. [See Clarke, as before, sub nominibus. — G.] 

3 A patient man under reproaches, is like a man with a sword in one hand, and a 
salve in the other ; he could wound, but he will heal. The motto of patient souls is, 
J'tura pro Ckristo toleranda, we must suffer more than so for Christ. 

* Clarke, as before. — G. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 357 

of the saints in suffering times. Paul's choice carriage in his bonds 
was the confirmation of many. 'And many of the brethren in the Lord, 
waxing confident by my bonds, are much more bold to speak the word 
without fear,' Philip, i. 14 : vide Estius. And as the sufferings of the 
saints do contribute to the confirmation of some, so by the blessing of 
God they contribute to the conversion of others. ' I beseech thee,' says 
Paul, 'for my son Onesimus, whom I have begotten in my bonds,' 
Philemon ] 0. It was a notable saying of Luther, Ecclesia totum Tnun- 
dum conveHit sanguine et oratione. The church converteth the 
whole world by blood and prayer.^ Basil affirms,'^ that the primitive 
saints shewed so much heroic zeal and constancy, that many of the 
heathens turned Christians ; so that choice spirit that the saints have 
shewed in their sufferings, when Christ hath overshadowed them with 
his love, and ' stayed them with flagons, and comforted them with 
apples,' Cant.ii. 5, hath madded, grieved, vexed, and extremely tormented 
their tormentors.' 

Lactantius boasts of the braveness of the martyrs in his time : ' Our 
children and women, not to speak of men, do in silence overcome their 
tormentors, and the fire cannot so much as fetch a sigh from them.' 

Hegesippus reports an observation of Antoninus the emperor, viz., 
'That the Christians were most courageous and confident always in 
earthquakes, whilst his own heathen soldiers were at such accidents 
most fearful and disspirited.' Certainly no earthquakes can make any 
heartquakes among the suffering saints, so long as the countenance of 
God shines upon their face, and his love lies warm upon their hearts. 
The suffering saint may be assaulted, but not vanquished ; he may be 
troubled, but can never be conquered ; he may lose his head, but he 
cannot lose his crown, which the righteous Lord hath prepared and laid 
up for him, 2 Tim. iv. 7, 8. The suffering saint shall still be master of 
the day ; though they kill him, they cannot hurt him ;* he may suffer 
death, but never conquest. 'And they overcame him by the blood of 
the Lamb, and by the word of their testimony ; and they loved not their 
lives unto the death,' Rev. xii. 11. They love not their lives that love 
Christ and his truth more than their lives ; they that slight, contemn, 
and despise their lives, when they stand in competition with Christ, 
may be truly said not to love their lives. In these words you see that 
the saints by dying do overcome : ' They may kill me,' said Socrates of 
his enemies, ' but they cannot hurt me.'' A saint may say this and 
more. The herb heliotropium doth turn about and open itself accord- 
ing to the motion of the sun ; so do the saints in their sufferings, 
according to the internal motions of the Sun of righteousness upon 
them.* 

(3.) The third reason, A third reason why the Lord causes his good- 
ness to pass before his people, and his face to shine upon his people in 

* They knew it could be but a day's journey between the cross and paradise, between 
that short storm and an eternal calm. 

« Qu. Justin Martyr, as before? See Index, sub nomine.— G. 

' It would be too tedious to give you an account of all particular persecutors in this 
case, whom the courage, faith, and patience of the saints have tired out and made weary 
of their lives, and also bred wonder and astonishment in beholders and readers. 

* Mori potse, vinci non posse. * Plato, Phsedo. — G. 

* Lord Jesus, said one, 1 love t\xee,plusquammea,plusquamTneos,plusquamme, more 
than all goods, more than all my friends, yea, more than my very life. 



358 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

suffering times, and that is, /or the praise of his own grace, and for 
the gloiy of his own name. God would lose much of his own glory, if 
he should not stand by his people, and comfort them and strengthen 
them, in the day of their sorrows. Ah the dirt, the scorn, the contempt, 
that vain men would cast upon God, Exod. xxxii. 12, Num. xiv. 13. 
Look, as our greatest good comes through the sufferings of Christ, so 
Grod's greatest glory that he bath from his saints comes through their 
sufferings : ' If ye be reproached for the name of Christ, happy are ye ; 
for the Spirit of glory and of God resteth upon you : on their part he is 
evil spoken of, but on your part he is glorified,' 1 Pet. iv. 14 [vide Bezam]. 
It makes much for the glory of God, that his people are cheered and 
comforted, quickened and raised, spiritualised and elevated in the day 
of their sufferings. Oh the sight of so noble a spirit in the saints, 
causes others to admire God, to lift up God, to fall in love with God, 
and to glorify God ; for owning his people, and for being a light to them 
in darkness, a joy to them in sorrow, and a palace to them in prison.* 
God is very sensible of the many praises and prayers that he should 
lose, did lie not cause his love and his glory to rest upon his people in 
suffering times. 1 here is nothing that God is so tender of, as he is of 
his glory, and that his heart is so much set upon as his glory ; and there- 
fore he will visit them in a prison, and feast them in a dungeon, and 
walk with them in a fiery furnace, and shew kindness to them in a lion's 
den, that every one may shout and cry, Grace, grace !^ God loves to 
act in such ways of grace towards his suffering ones, as may stop the 
mouths of their enemies, and cause the hearts of his friends to rejoice. 

(4.) The fourfh reason. Believing times are times %vherein the Lord 
is graciously pleased to lift up the light of his countenance upon his 
people. When his children are in the exercise of faith, then the Lord 
is pleased to make known his goodness, and to seal up to them everlast- 
ing happiness and blessedness : Eph. i. 13, ' In whom ye also trusted, 
after that ye heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation : in 
whom also, after that ye believed, ye were sealed with the Holy Spirit 
of promise ;' or in whom believing ye were sealed, that is, as you were 
in the very exercise and actings of faith upon the Lord Jesus Christ, 
the Spirit of the Lord made sure, and sealed up to you your adoption, 
your reconciliation, your pardon, and everlasting inheritance.' 

Him that honours Christ by believing, by fresh and frequent acts of 
faith upon him, him will Christ certainly honour and secure by setting 
his seal and niark upon him, and by assuring of him of a kingdom that 
shakes not, of riches that corrupt not, and of glory that fades not. Ah 
Christians ! you wrong two at once, Christ and your own souls, whilst 
you thus reason : Lord, give me first assurance, and then I will believe 
in thee and rest upon thee ; whereas your great work is to believe, and 
to hold on believing and acting of faith on the Lord Jesus, till you come 
to be assured and sealed up to the day of redemption. This is the 
surest and shortest way to assurance. 

That is a remarkable passage of the apostle in Rom. xv. 1 3, ' Now 
the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that ye 

» Dan. iii. 28-30, Dan. vi. 25-27. 

' Isa. xlviii. 11 ; Gen. xxxi.x. 20; Dan. vi. 10; Zpch. iv. 7. 

^ If ijf Kx) v/*ns, cLKoufckuru. . . . Vide Beza and Calvin. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34).] heaven on earth. 359 

may abound in hope, through the power of the Holy Ghost.' * The God 
of hope,' saith the apostle, ' shall fill you with all joy and peace'in believ- 
ing.' That is, whilst you are in the exercise and actings of faith, the 
God of hope shall fill you with that joy that is 'unspeakable and full of 
glory,' and with that * peace that passes understanding.'^ 

Faith is the key that unlocks paradise, and lets in a flood of joy into 
the soul. Faith is an appropriating grace, it appropriates all to itself; 
it looks upon God, and says with the psalmist, ' This God is my God for 
ever and ever,' Ps. Ixiii. 1, and xlviii. 14. It looks upon Christ and 
says, ' My beloved is mine, and his desires are towards me,' Cant. vii. 10. 
It looks upon the precious promises and says. These ' precious pro- 
mises' are mine, 2 Peter i. 4. It looks upon heaven and says, ' Hence- 
forth is laid up for me a crown of righteousness/ 2 Tim. iv. 8 ; and this 
fills the soul with joy and peace. Faith hath an influence upon other 
graces, it is like a silver thread that runs through a chain of pearl, it 
puts strength and vivacity into all other virtues. It made Abraham to 
rejoice, and it made Noah sit still and quiet in the midst of a deluge ; 
tantum possuinits, quantum credimus. 

Faith is the first pin that moveth the soul ; it is the spring in the 
watch that sets all the golden wheels of love, joy, comfort, and peace 
a-going. Faith is a root-grace, from whence springs all the sweet 
flowers of joy and peace. Faith is like the bee, it will suck sweetness 
out of every flower ; it will extract light out of darkness, comforts out of 
distresses, mercies out of miseries, wine out of water, honey out of the 
rock, and meat out of the eater. Judges xiv. 14. 1 Peter i. 8, ' Whom 
having not seen, ye love ; in whom, though now ye see him not, yet 
believing, ye rejoice with joy unspeakable, and full of glory.' Upon 
the exercise of faith, their hearts are filled with joy, with unspeakable 
joy, with glorious joy. Faith sees in Chi-ist plenitudo abundantice and 
plenitudo redundantice, a fulness of abundance and a fulness of redund- 
ancy; and this fills the heart with glorious joy. 

Ah, Christians ! believing, believing is the ready way, the safest way, 
the sweetest way, the shortest way, the only way to a well grounded 
assurance, and to that unspeakable joy and peace that flows from it, as 
the effect from the cause, the fruit from the root, the stream from the 
fountain. There is such assurance, and such joy that springs from the 
fresh and frequent actings of faith, that cannot be expressed, that cannot 
be painted. No man can paint the sweetness of the honeycomb, the 
sweetness of a cluster of Canaan, the sweetness of paradise, the fragrancy 
of the rose of Sharon. As the being of things cannot be painted, and 
as the sweetness of things cannot be painted, no more can that assur- 
ance and joy that flows from believing be painted or expressed; it is too 
great and too glorious for weak man to paint or set forth.^ 

When Abraham believed in hope against hope, Rom. iv. 1 8, and when 
in the face of all dangers and difficulties, he put forth such noble and 
glorious acts of faith, as to conclude that ' the Lord would provide him- 
self a lamb for a burnt-offering,' Gen. xxii. 8, and that ' in the mount 
^ trXti^uirat, shall fill you, from xXn^iu, that signifies to be filled with joy and peace, as 
the sails of a ship are filled with wind. 

? There is in Christ not only plenitudo vasts, but plenitudo fontis, the fulness of a vessel, 
but the fulness of a fountain ; and this makes the heart of a saint leap, when he sees it 
by an eye of faith. 



360 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

he would be seen/ Gen. xxii. 14; God is so taken with the actings of 
his faith and the effects of it, tliat he swears by himself, that * in bless- 
ing he would bless him;' that is, I will certainly bless him, and will 
bless his blessing to him ; 'and in multiplying, he would multiply his 
seed as the stars of heaven, and as the sand which is upon the sea 
shore,' Gen. xxii. 17. Now the angel of the Lord, viz., the Lord Jesus, 
as his own words shew, verses 12, 15, 16, calls unto Abraham, out of 
heaven, not once but twice ; and now he shews his admirable love in 
countermanding of Abraham, and in providing a ram, even to a miracle, 
for a burnt offering.^ 

And thus you see that believing times are times wherein the Lord is 
graciously pleased to reveal his love, and make known his favour to his 
people, and to look from heaven upon them, and to speak again and 
again in love and sweetness to them. 

V. Fifthly, Hearing and receiving times are times wherein the 
Lord is graciously pleased to cause his face to shine upon his people* 
When they are a-hearing the word of life and a-breaking the bread of 
life, then God comes in upon them, and declares to them that love that is 
better than life : Acts x. 44, ' While Peter yet spake these words, the 
Holy Ghost fell on all them which heard the word.' As Peter was 
speaking, the Holy Ghost, that is, the graces of the Holy Ghost, viz., 
the joy, the comfort, the love, the peace, &c., of the Holy Ghost, fell 
upon them. So in Gal. iii. 2, ' This only would I learn of you, received 
ye the Spirit by the works of the law, or by the hearing of faith V 

By the Spirit here, Calvin and Bullinger and other expositors, do 
understand the joy, the peace, the assurance that is wrought in the 
heart by the hearing of faith, that is, by the doctrine of the gospel ; for 
in these words of the apostle, hearing is put for the thing heard, and 
faith for the doctrine of the gospel, because the gospel is the ordinary 
means of working faith, 'Faith comes by hearing,' saith the apostle, Rom. 
x. 17. So 1 Thes. i. 5, 6, ' For our gospel came not unto you in word only, 
but also in power, and in the Holy Ghost, and in much assurance ; as 
ye know what manner of men we were among you for your sake. And 
ye became followers of us, and of the Lord, having received the word in 
much affliction, with joy of the Holy Ghost.'* 

In these words you have a divine power attending Paul's ministry, a 
power convincing, enlightening, humbling, raising, delighting, reforming, 
renewing, and transforming of them that heard him. Also you have 
the sweet and blessed testimony of the Spirit attending his ministry, 
and assuring those of their effectual calling and election, upon whom 
the word came in power, and raising up their spirits to joy in the midst 
of sorrow. Ah ! you precious sons and daughters of Zion, that have sat 
waiting and trembling at Wisdom's door, tell me, tell me, hath not God 

* Dominus provtdebit, the Lord will provide, was Maximilian's pious motto, and should 
be every saint's motto in straits and troubles. 

' Ps. Ixiii. 3, 4. Also by the Holy Ghost is meant the extraordinary gifts of the Spirit, 
ver. 45, 46, Acts xi. 15. Therefore, says the apostle, do not leave the substance for a 
shadow, the sun for a candle, and solid meat for milk ; which none would do, except they 
were bewitched. 

' By the Holy Ghost in this text cannot be meant the extraordinary gifts of the Spirit, 
and that, first, because they were no evidences of election ; secondly, because many 
vessels of wrath have been partakers of them ; thirdly, many of God's choice and chosen 
ones have been destitute of those extraordinary gifts. 



EoM. VIIL 32-34).] heaven on earth. 361 

• 

rained down manna upon your souls whilst you have been hearing the 
word ? Yes. Hath not God come in with power upon you, and by his 
Spirit sealed up to you yourelection, the remission of your sins, the justi- 
fication of your persons, and the salvation of your souls ? Yes, without 
controversy, many saints have found Christ's lips, in this ordinance, 
to drop honey and sweetness, marrow and fatne.ss. 

And as Christ in hearing times, when his people are a-hearing the 
word of life, does lift up the light of his countenance upon them ; so 
when they are a-receiving the bread of life, he makes known his love to 
them, and their interest in him. In this feast of fat things, the master 
of the feast, the Lord Jesus, comes in the midst of his guests, saying, 
* Peace be here.'^ Here the beams of his glory do so shine, as that they 
cause the hearts of children to burn within them, and as scatters all 
that thick darkness and cloud that are gathered about them. When 
saints are in this wine-cellar, Christ's banner over them is love ; when they 
are in this Canaan, then he feeds them with milk and honey ; when 
they are in this paradise, then they shall taste of angels' food ; when 
they are at this gate of heaven, then they shall see Christ at the right 
of the Father ; when they are before his mercy-seat, then they shall see 
the bowels of mercy rolling towards them. In this ordinance they 
see that, and taste that, and feel that of Christ, that they are not able 
to declare and manifest to others ; in this ordinance saints shall see 
the truth of their graces, and feel the increase of their graces, and re- 
joice in the clearness of their evidences ; in this ordinance Christ will 
seal up the promises, and seal up the covenant, and seal up his love, 
and seal up their pardon sensibly to their souls. Many precious souls 
there be that have found Christ in this ordinance, when they could not 
find him in other ordinances, though they have sought him sorrowingly.' 
Many a cold soul hath been warmed in this ordinance, and many a 
hungry soul hath been fed with manna in this ordinance, and many a 
thirsty soul hath been refreshed with wine upon the lees in this ordi- 
nance, and many a dull soul hath been quickened in this ordinance.' I 
do not say that ever a dead soul hath been enlivened in this ordinan^, 
this being an ordinance appointed by Christ, not to beget spiritual life 
where there was none, but to increase it where the Spirit hath formerly 
begun it.* In this ordinance, weak hands and feeble knees have been 
strengthened, and fainting hearts have been comforted, and questioning 
souls have been resolved, and staggering souls have been settled, and 
falling souls have been supported. Ah, Christians ! if you will but stand 
up and speak out, you must say, that in this ordinance, there hath been 
between Christ and you such mutual kisses, such mutual embraces, 
such mutual opening and shutting of hands, such mutual opening and 
closing of hearts, as hath made such a heaven in your hearts as cannot 
be expressed, as cannot be declared. Christ in this ordinance opens 
such boxes of precious ointment, as fill the saints with a spiritual savour; 

* Gen. xxii. 8. This ordinance is a cabinet of jewels ; in it are abundance of spiritual 
springs, and rich mines, heavenly treasures. 

* Every gracious soul may say, not only Credo vitam oetemam et tdo vitam cetemam, I be- 
lieve life eternal, but I receive, I eat life eternal. 

' The Supper of the Lord. Cf. supra. — G. 

* Every wicked soul that takes the cup may say, Calix vitce ealix mortia, the cup of 
life is made my death, I Cor. xi. 27. 



S62 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

• 

he gives them a cluster of the grapes of Canaan, that makes them 
earnestly look and long to be in Canaan.* The Christians in the pri- 
mitive times, upon their receiving the sacrament, were wont to be filled 
with that zeal and fervour, with that joy and comfort, with that faith, 
fortitude, and assurance, that made them to appear before the tyrants 
with transcendent l)oldness and cheerfulness, as many writers do testify. 
Now there are these reasons why God is pleased to lift up the light of 
his countenance upon his people, when they are a-hearing the word of 
life, and a-breaking the bread of life. 

(1 .) The first reason. That they may highly prize the ordinances, the 
choice discoveries that God makes to their souls in tJtem, ivories them. 
to set a very high price upon them. Oh ! says our souls, we cannot but 
affect them for what of God we have enjoyed in them, Ps. Ixxxiv. 10, 11. 
Many there are that are like old Barzillai, that had lost his taste and 
hearing, and so cared not for David's feasts and music, 2 Sam. xix. 32, 
seq. So many there are that can see nothing of God, nor taste nothing 
of God in ordinances : they care not for ordinances, they slight ordi- 
nances.^ Oh ! but souls that have seen, and heard, and tasted of the 
goodness of the Lord in ordinances, they dearly love them, and highly 
prize them:' ' I have esteemed thy word,' says Job, ' above my necessary 
food,' Job xxiii. 12. And David sings it out : ' The law of thy mouth 
is better unto me than thousands of gold and silver' [Ps. cxix. 72]. 
Luther prized the word at such a high rate that he saith he would not 
live in paradise, if lie might, without the word : At cum verbo etiam 
in inferno facile est vivere, but with the word he could live in hell itself, 
Ps. xxvii. 4>. 

(2.) The second reason. God lifts up the light of his countenance 
upon his people in ordinances, that he may keep them close to ordinances 
and constant in ordinances. The soul shall hear good news from 
heaven when it is waiting at wisdom's door, Prov. viii. 31, 35. God 
will acquaint the soul with spiritual mysteries, and feed it with the 
droppings of the honeycomb, that the soul may cleave to them as Ruth 
did to Naomi, and say of them as she said of her : ' Where these go, I 
will go; where these lodge, I will lodge,' Ruth i. 15-17; and nothing 
but death shall make a separation between ordinances and my soul. 
After Joshua had had a choice presence of God with his spirit in the ser- 
vice he was put upon, he makes a proclamation, ' Choose you whom 
you will serve, I and my household will serve the Lord,' John xxiv. 15. 
Let the issue be what it will, I will cleave to the service of my God ; I 
will set my soul under God's spout, I will wait for him in his temple, 
Malachi iii. 1 ; I will look for him in the midst of the seven golden 
candlesticks, Rev. ii. 1 ; I have found him a good master ; I will live and 
die in his service ; I have found his work to be better than wages ; I have 
found a reward, not only for keeping, but also ' in keeping his com- 
mandments,' as the psalmist speaks, Ps. xix. II. The good works, the 
sweet aspects, the choice hints, the heavenly intercourse that hath been 
between the Lord Jesus and my soul, in his service, hath put such great 

' Num. xiii. 23-25 ; Cyprian, 1. 4 ; Ep. vi. Augustine on John, tract, xxvii. &c. 
• Ps. Ixiii. 2, 3; Cunt. ii. 3; Ps. xix. 10. Tliis age is full of careless Gallios, Acts 
xviii. 17, that care not for these things. 
' Better that the sun shine not, than that Ghrysostom preach not. 



Rom, VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 363 

and glorious engagements upon my soul that I cannot but say with the 
servant in the law, ' I love my master, and I will not quit his service, 
because it is well with me ; my ear is bored, and I will be his servant 
for ever,' Exod. xxi. 5 ; Deut. xv. IG, 17. 

(3.) The third reason why the Lord causes the beams of his love, 
and the brightness of his glory to shine forth upon his people in ordi- 
nances is. To fence and strengtiien their souls against all those tempta- 
tions that they may meet with from Satan and his instruments, that 
lie in wait to deceive,^ and by their cunning craftiness endeavour 
vrith all their might to work men first to have low thoughts of ordi- 
nances, and then to neglect them, and then to despise them. Now the 
Lord by the sweet discoveries of himself, by the kisses and love-t(jkens 
that he gives to his people in ordinances, does so endear and engage 
their hearts to them, that they are able not only to withstand tempta- 
tions, but also to triumph over temptations, through him that hath 
loved them, and in ordinances manifested his presence, and the riches 
of his grace and goodness, to them. The sweet converse, the blessed turns 
and walks that the saints have with God in ordinances, makes them 
strong in resisting, and happy in conquering of those temptations that 
tend to lead them from the ordinances ; which are Christ's banqueting- 
house, where he sets before his people all the dainties and sweet- 
meats of heaven, and bids them eat and drink abundantly, there being 
no danger of surfeiting in eating or drinking of Christ's delicates. Truly, 
many a soul hath surfeited of the world's dainties, and died for ever ; 
but there is not a soul that hath had the honour and happiness to be 
brought into Christ's banqueting-house, and to eat and drink of his 
dainties, but they have lived for ever.^ 

(4.) The fourth reason why the Lord is pleased to give his people 
some sense of his love, and some taste of heaven in ordinances, is, That 
he Tnay fit and ripen them for heaven, and make them look and long 
more after a perfect, complete, and full enjoym.ent of God. Souls at 
first conversion are but rough-cast, but God, by visiting of them, and 
manifesting of himself to them in his ways, doth more and more fit those 
vessels of mercy for glory, Isa. Ixiv. .5. Ah ! Christians, tell me, do not 
those holy influences, those spiritual breathings, those divine in-comes, 
that you meet with in ordinances, make your souls cry out with David, 
* As the hart pauteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul after 
thee, O God. My soul thirsteth for God, even for the hviug God : When 
shall I come and appear before the presence of God ? Ps. xlii. 1, 2. So 
in Ps. Ixiii. 1. 2, ' O God, thou art my God, early will I seek thee ; my 
soul thirsteth for thee, my flesh longeth for thee in a dry and thirsty 
land, where no water is : to see thy power and thy gh)rv, so as I have 
seen thee in the sanctuary.'"* In these words you liave David s strong, 

• Eph. iv. 14. xvCtiet signifies cogging with a die ; such sleights as cheaters and false 
gamesters use ut dice. 

' Chrysostom saith, that by the sacrament of the Lord's supper, we are so armed against 
Satan's temptatiuns, tliat he fleeth from us as if we were so many leones ignem expuentes, 
lions that spit fire. Cant. ii. 4, pn 1^2 is damns vin>, the house of wine. 

' The Greeks derive their word for desire from a root that signifieth to hunt. Now, 
if que should heap never so much fuel upon a fire, it would not quench it, but kindle it 
the more. So nothing can satisfy the desires of a saint but a full celestial enjoyment of 
God. 



364 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

earnest, and vehement desires ; here you have desire upon desire ; here 
you have the very flower and vigour of his spirit, the strength and 
sinews of his soul, the prime and top of his inflamed affections, all 
strongly working after a fuller enjoyment of God. Look, as the espoused 
maid longs for the marriage day, the apprentice for his freedom, the 
captive for his ransom, the condemned man for his pardon, the traveller 
for his inn, and the mariner for his haven ; so doth a soul, that hath 
met with God in his ordinances, long to meet with God in heaven. It 
is not a drop, it is not a lap and away, a sip and away, that will suflBce 
such a soul. No. This soul will never be quiet, till it sees God face to 
face, till it be quiet in the bosom of God. The more a samt tastes of God 
in an ordinance, the more are his desires raised and whetted, and the 
more are his teeth set on edge for more and more of God. Plutarch 
saith, that when * once the Gauls had tasted of the sweet wine that 
was made of the grapes of Italy, nothing would satisfy them but 
Italy, Italy.* So a soul that hath tasted of the sweetness and goodness 
of God in ordinances, nothing will satisfy it, but more of that goodness 
and sweetness.' A little mercy may save the soul, but it must be a 
great deal of mercy that must satisfy the soul. The least glimpse of 
God's countenance may be a staff to support the soul, and an ark to 
secure the soul, and a cloud by day and a pillar of fire by nigiit to 
guide the soul ; but it must be much, very much of God, that must be 
enough to satisfy the soul. 

(5.) TJie fifth reason. The fifth and last reason why the Lord is 
graciously pleased to give his people some sense of his love, and some 
assurance of his favour in ordinances, is, That they may have where- 
withal to silence and stop the mouths of wicked and ungodly rnen, 
whose words ai^ stout against the Lord; who say, it is in vain to serve 
God, and what profit is there in keeping his statutes and ordinances, 
and in walking mournfully before the Lord of hosts? Mai. iii. 13, 14. 
Now the Lord causes his face to shine upon his people in ordinances, 
that they may stand up, and bear him witness before the wicked world, 
that he is no hard master, that he reaps not where he sows not.* In 
ordinances he kisses them, and there he gives them his love, and makes 
known his goodness and glory, that his children may, from their own 
experiences, be able to confute all the lies and clamours of wicked men 
against God and his ways. And blessed be God, that hath not left 
himself without witness, but hath many thousands that can stand up 
before all the world and declare, that they have seen 'the beauty and 
glory of God in his sanctuary,' that they have met with those joys and 
comforts in the ways of God, that do as far surpass all other joys 
and comforts, as light does darkness, as heaven does hell, that they 

1 It is not drops, but swimming in the ocean, that will satisfy a soul that hath looked 
into paradise. » Plutarch in vita Camilli. 

* A full enjoyment of God is the most sparkling diamond in the ring of glory. 

* The saints, by the gracious experiences that they have of the sweet breathings of 
God upon them in ordinances, are able to confute, muzzle, halter, or button up the 
mouths of vain and wicked men, who say unto the Lord, ' Depart from us ; for we desire 
not the knowledge of thy ways. What is the Almighty, that we should serve him ? and 
what profit should we have, if we pray unto him ?' Job xxi. 14, 15. [The peculiar ex- 
pression ' button up,' i.e. shut up, of this note, is another Shakesperean word ; e.g. ' Hia 
heart is buttoned up,' Comedy of Errors, iv. 2. — G.] 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 365 

have met with such heart-meltings, such heart-humblings, such heart- 
revivings, such heart-cheerings, as they have never met with before, in 
all their days. 

Ah ! say these souls, ' One day in his courts, is better than a thou- 
sand ' years elsewhere, Ps. Ixxxiv. 1 0. Oh we had rather with Moses 
lose all, and be whipped and stripped of all, than lose the sweet enjoy- 
ments of God in ordinances. Oh in them, God hath been light and 
life, a joy and a crown to our souls. God is tender of his own glory, 
and of his children's comfort; and therefore he gives them such choice 
aspects, and such sweet visits in ordinances, that they may have argu- 
ments at hand to stop the mouths of sinnei-s, and to declare from their 
own experience, that all the ways of God are ways of pleasantness, and 
that all his paths drop fatness, Prov. iii. 17, Ps. Ixv. 11. And thus much 
for the reasons, why God lifts up the light of his countenance upon his 
people in ordinances. Before I pass to the next particular, it will be 
necessary that I lay down these cautions, to prevent weak saints from 
stumbling and doubting, who have not yet found the Lord giving 
out his favours, and making known his grace and love, in such a 
sensible way to their souls, in breaking the bread of life, as others have 
found. 

(1.) The first caution. Now, the first caution I shall lay down is this, 
TJiat even believers may sometimes come and go from this ordinance, 
without that comfort, that assurance, that joy, that refreshment thai 
others have, and may meet with. And this may arise, partly from 
their unprepared ness and unfitness to meet with God in the ordinance, 
2 Ohron. xxx. 19, 20, 1 Cor. xi. 20-34; and partly from their playing 
and dallying with some bosom sin ; or else it may arise from their not 
stirring up themselves to lay hold on God, as the prophet Isaiah com- 
plains, ' There is none that calleth upon thy name, that stirreth up 
himself to take hold of thee,' Isa. Ixiv. 7 ; or else it may arise from the 
Spirit's standing at a distance from the soul. It may be, O soul, that 
thou hast set the Comforter, the Spirit a-mourning; and therefore it is, 
that he refuses to comfort thee, and to be a sealing and witnessing 
Spirit unto thee. Thou hast grieved him with thy sins, and he will 
now vex thee by his silence ; thou hast thrown the cordials against the 
wall; thou hast trampled his manna under thy feet; and therefore it is 
that he hath veiled his face, and changed his countenance and carriage 
towards thee ; thou hast been unkind to the Spirit ; and therefore 
he carries it towards thee as an enemy, and not as a friend, Ps. 
Ixxvii. 2, Gen. xxxi. 5. 

(2.) The second caution is this, That though God doth in this 
ordinance withhold comfort and assurance from thee, yet thou m,ust 
hold on in the duty, thou m'ost wait at hope's hospital. At this 
heavenly pool, thou must lie till the angel of the covenant, the Lord 
Jesus, comes and breathes upon thee ; at these waters of the sanctuary 
thou must lie, till the Spirit moves upon thy soul ; thou must not 
neglect thy work, though God delays thy comfort; thou must be as 
obedient in the want of assurance, as thou art thankful under the en- 
joyment of assurance.' Laban often changed Jacob's wages, yet Jacob 

' 'The longer mercy is a-coming, the greater, the sweeter, and the belter usually it is 
when it comes. Many a child hath got a Benjamin's portion, a Hannah's portion, a 



S66 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

never changed nor neglected his work. Though God should change 
thy wages, thy comforts into discomforts, thy spring into an autumn, 
&c., yet thou must never change nor neglect thy work, which is obey- 
ing, believing, and waiting, till God, in his ordinances, shall lift up the 
light of his countenance upon thee, and turn thy night into day, and 
thy mourning into rejoicing. God is the same, and the commands of 
the gospel are the same, and therefore thy work is the same, whether 
it be night or day with thy soul, whether thou art under frowns or 
smiles, in the arms or at the feet of God. 

(3.) The tJdrd caution is this. Many of the precious sons and 
daughters of Slon have had and may have so much comfoH and 
sweetness, so much life and heat, so much reviving and quickeniTig^ 
80 m,uch marrow and fatness in this ordinance, as may clearly 
evidence the special presence of God with their spirits, and as they 
■would not exchange for all the world, and yet would give a world, 
were it in their power, for those strong comforts and full assurance, 
that others enjoy in this ordinance. In this ordinance, Christ looks 
upon one and kisses another ; he gives a nod to one, and his hand to 
another. Some in this ordinance shall have but sips of mercy, others 
shall have large draughts of mercy ; some in this ordinance shall see 
but the back-parts of Christ, others shall see him face to face. Lam. i. 
16 ; to one he gives silver, to another he gives gold ; to one he gives 
but a glass of consolation, to another he gives flagons of consolation. 
Cant. ii. 5; some shall have but drops, others shall swim in the ocean; 
some shall have a large harvest, others shall have but a few gleanings, 
and yet they, if rightly valued, are more worth than a world.^ The 
Sun of righteousness is a free agent, and he will work and shine forth 
as he pleases, and on whom he pleases ; and who art thou that darest 
say to Christ, Why doest thou so ?* Ah ! Christians, you may not, you 
must not say, We have not met with Christ in the sacrament, because 
we have not met with joy and assurance in the sacrament ; for you 
may enjoy very much of Christ in that ordinance, and yet not so much 
as may boil up to full assurance, and make you go away singing, 'My 
beloved is mine, and I am his,' Cant. ii. 16. We may enjoy the warmth 
and heat of the sun, when we cannot see the sun ; so souls may enjoy 
much of Christ, by holy influences, in the sacrament, when they cannot 
see Christ in the sacrament. 

VI. Sixthly, Times of personal afflictions are times wherein the 
Lord is graciously pleased to vouchsafe to his people sweet manifesta- 
tions of his love and favour. When his hand is heavy on them, then 
he lifts up the light of his countenance upon them : Ps. Ixxi. 20, 21, 
' Thou which hast shewed me great and sore troubles, shall quicken me 
again ; and shalt bring me up again from the depths of the earth. 
Thou shalt increase my greatness, and comfort me on every side.' So 
Ps. xciv. 19, 'In the multitude of my careful troubled thoughts, thy 

double portion, by waiting ; so hatb many a saint got a worthy portion, a double portion 
of comfort and assurance by waiting. Urgo, wait patiently, and work heartily. 

1 King Cyrus gave a kiss to Chrysantes, and a golden cup to Artabnzus. [Chrysan- 
taa, not Chrysfnifes, stood very high in the favour of Cyrus: Cyropsedeia throughout. 
Artabazus. Cf. Cyrop, i. 4, sec 27 ; iv. 1, sec. 23, &c., &c.— G.] 

* The least star gives light, the least drop moistens, the least pearl sparkles, and the 
least dram of special grace saves. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34-.] heaven on earth. 367 

comforts delight my soul.'' Ah, Christians ! hath not God by all afflic- 
tions lifted up your souls nearer heaven, as Noah's ark was lifted up 
nearer and nearer heaven by the rising of the waters higher and higher ? 
The ball in the emblem says Percussa surgo, the harder you beat me 
down in afflictions, the higher I shall bound in affection towards heaven 
and heavenly things ; so afflictions do but elevate and raise a saint's 
affections to heaven and heavenly things. 

When Munster lay sick, and his friends asked him how he did and 
how he felt himself, he pointed to his sores and ulcers, whereof he was 
full, and said, 'These are God's gems and jewels, wherewith he decketh 
his best friends ; and to me they are more precious than all the gold 
and silver in the world.' 

Ajfflictiones benedictiones, afflictions are blessings. God's corrections 
are our instructions, his lashes our lessons, his scourges our school- 
masters, his chastisements our advertisements.* And to note this, the 
Hebrews and Greeks both do express chastening and teaching by one 
and the same word (">D1D <:ra/diia, Tuusar, paideia), because the latter 
is the true end of the former. Ah, you afflicted sons and daughters of 
Zion, have you not had such sweet discoveries of God, such sensible 
demonstrations of his love, such bowels of affections working in him 
towards you ? Have you not had such gracious visits, and such glorious 
visions, that you would not exchange for all the world ? Yes. Have 
you not had the precious presence of God with you, quieting and stilling 
your souls, supporting and upholding your souls, cheering and refreshing 
your souls ? Yes. And have you not had the Lord applying precious 
promises, and suitable remedies, to all your maladies ? Have you not 
found God a-bringing in unexpected mercy in the day of your adversity, 
suitable to that promise, Hosea ii. 14, ' I will allure her, and bring her into 
the wilderness, and speak comfortably to her' (or, I will speak earnestly 
to her heart, as the Hebrew reads it') ? Yes. Have you not found 
that God hath so sweetened and sanctified afflictions to you, as to make 
them a means to discover many sins that lay hid, and to purge you from 
many sins that cleaved close unto you, and to prevent you from falling 
into many sins that would have been the breaking of your bones, and 
the loss of your comfort? Yes.* Have you not found that you have 
been like the walnut tree, the better for beating; and like the vine, the 
better for bleeding ; and like the ingenuous child, the better for whip- 
ping ? Yes.* Have you not found afflictions to revive, quicken, and 
recover your decayed graces ? Have they not inflamed that love that 
hath been cold, and put life into that faith that hath been dying, and 
quickened those hopes that have been withering, and put spirit into 

1 ^syiJJ', my cogitations, i.e. my careful, troubled thoughts, perplexed as the branches 
of a tree by a strong wind. It comes from 5]">yD, a branch, by interposing ^. 

' Qui non est criidanus, non est Chrittianus, saith Luther. The proverb is. Smart 
makes wit, and vexation gives understanding. I bless God I know several precious souls 
of whom this world is not worthy, that have found more of God in nfflictions than in any 
other gracious dispensation. Manasseh got more by his iron chain than ever he got by 
his golden crown. 

* Oculos quos peccatum clauditpcena aperit. Periua<m ntsi perxissem, I had perished, if 
I had not perished. 

* Musk, saith one, when it hath lost its sweetness, if it be put into the sink amongst 
filth, it recovers it. So doth afflictions recover and revive decayed graces. 



368 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [RoM. VIII. 32-34. 

those joys and comforts that have been languishing ? Yes. Oh, then, 
stand up and declare to all the world that times of affliction have been 
the times wherein you have seen the face of God, and heard the voice 
of God, and sucked sweetness from the breasts of God, and fed upon the 
delicates of God, and drunk deep of the consolations of God, and have 
been most satisfied and delighted with the presence and in-coraes of 
God. 

When Hezekiah in his greatest affliction laraentingly said, Isa. xxxviii. 
9-20, ' I shall go mourning to my grave, I shall not see the Lord in the 
land of the living. He will cut me off with pining sickness, he will break 
all my bones. Like a crane, or a swallow, so did I chatter; I did mourn 
as a dove ; mine eyes fail with looking upward. O Lord, I am oppressed, 
undertake for me.' So now God comes in a way of mercy to him, and 
prints his love upon his heart: ver. 17, ' Thou hast in love to my soul 
delivered it from the pit of corruption ;' or rather, as the Hebrew reads 
it, 'K'SJ nn'^ < Thou hast loved my soul from the grave, for thou hast 
cast all my sins behind thy back.' Ah, says Hezekiah, I have now found 
that in my afflictions thy affections have been most strongly carried 
towards me, as towards one whom thou art exceedingly taken with. 
Oh, now thou hast warmed me with thy love, and visited me with thy 
grace ; thou hast made my darkness to be light, and turned my sighing 
into singing, and my mourning into rejoicing. So when Habakkuk's 
belly trembled, and his lips quivered, and rottenness entered into his 
bones, and all creature comforts failed, yet then had he such a sweet 
presence of God with his spirit, as makes him to rejoice in the midst of 
sorrows : ' Yet,' says he, ' I will rejoice in the Lord, I will joy in the 
God of my salvation,' chap. iii. 16-18. And thus you see it clear, that 
in times of affliction God makes sweet manifestations of his love and 
favour to his children's souls. 

VII. Seventhly, Praying times are times wherein the Lord is 
graciously pleased to give his people some sweet and comfortable 
assurance of his love and favour towards them,. Prayer crowns God 
with honour and glory that is due to his name ; and God crowns prayer 
with assurance and comfort. Usually the most praying souls are the 
most assured souls. There is no service wherein souls have such a near, 
familiar, and friendly intercourse with God, as in this of prayer ; neither 
is there any service wherein God doth more delight to make known his 
grace and goodness, his mercy and bounty, his beauty and gloiy, to poor 
souls, than this of prayer.' The best and the sweetest flowers of paradise, 
God gives to his people when they are upon their knees. Prayer is 
porta coeli, clavis paradisi, the gate of heaven, a key to let us into 
paradise. When John was weeping, in prayer doubtless, the sealed 
book was open to him. Many Christians have found by experience, 
praying times to be sealing times, times wherein God hath sealed up to 
them tlie remission of their sins, and the salvation of their souls. They 
have found prayer to be a shelter to their souls, a sacrifice to God, a 
sweet savour to Christ, a scourge to Satan, and an inlet to assurance. 
God loves to lade the wings of prayer with the choicest and chiefest 

^ Nunqrtam abs te absque te reeedo. — Bernard, Epist. 116, Lord, saith he, I never go 
away frum tlieo without thee. He was a man very much in prayer, as some writers 
observe. 



Rom. VTII. 32-34] heaven on earth. 369 

blessings. Ah ! how often, Christians ! hath God kissed you at the be- 
ginning of prayer, and spoke peace to you in the midst of prayer, and 
filled you witli joy and assurance, upon the close of prayer ! That ninth 
of Daniel, from the seventeenth to the four and twentieth verse, is full to 
the point in hand ; I shall only cite the words of the four last verses : 
Dan. ix. 20-23, ' And whilst I was speaking, and praying, and confess- 
ing my sin, and the sin of my people Israel, and presenting my suppli- 
cation before the Lord my God for the holy mountain of my God ; yea, 
whilst I was speaking in prayer, even the man Gabriel, whom I had 
seen in the vision at the beginning, being caused to fly swiftly,^ touched 
me about the time of evening oblation. And he informed me, and talked 
with me, and said, O Daniel, I am now come forth to give thee skill and 
understanding. At the beginning of thy supplications, the command- 
ment came forth, and I am come to shew thee, for thou art greatly be- 
loved ; therefore understand the matter, and consider the vision.' In 
these words you see, whilst Daniel was in prayer, the Lord appears to 
him and gives him a divine touch, and tells him that he is 'a man 
greatly beloved,' or as the Hebrew hath it, ' a man of desires.'* So Acts 
X. 1-4. ' There was a certain man in Csesarea, called Cornelius, a cen- 
turion of the band called the Italian band, a devout man, and one that 
feared God with all his house ; which gave much alms to the people, and 
prayed to God always ; he saw in a vision evidently about the ninth 
hour of the day, an angel of God coming in to him, and saying unto 
him, Cornelius. And when he looked on him, he was afraid, and said, 
What is it. Lord ? And he said unto him, Thy prayers and thine alms 
are come up for a memorial before God.'' Praying Cornelius, you see, 
is remembered by God, and visited sensibly and evidently by an angel, 
and assured that his prayers and good deeds are not only an odour, a 
sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable and well pleasing to God, but also 
that they shall be gloriously rewarded by God. So when Peter was 
praying, he fell into a trance, and saw heaven opened, and had his mind 
elevated, and all the faculties of his soul filltd with a divine revelation, 
Acts X. 9-16 ; so when Paul was a-praying, he sees a vision, Acts ix. 
11-16, Ananias a-coming and laying his hands on him, that he might 
receive his sight. Paul had not been long at prayer before it was re- 
vealed to him, that he was a chosen vessel, before he was filled with the 
voice and comforts of the Holy Ghost ; so our Saviour was transfigured 
as he was praying, Mat. xvii. 1, 2. Thus you see, that praying times 
are times wherein the Lord is graciously pleased to lilt up the light of 
his countenance upon his people, and to cause his grace and favour, his 
goodness and kindness, to rest on them, as the spirit of Elijah did rest 
on Elisha, 2 Kings ii. 15. 

Obj. But some may object and say. We have been at the door of 
mercy, early and late, for assurance, and yet we have not obtained it ; 
we have prayed and waited, and we have waited and prayed, we have 
prayed and mourned, and we have mourned and prayed, and yet we 
cannot get a good word from God, a smile from God ; he hath covered 

^ ^Vl PjyD, with weariness or flight, tired as it were with his making speed. 
*, nniDn, Chamudoth, a man of desires, that is, one that id very pleasing and delight- 
ful to God. * Kick Calvin and (Ecumenius on the words. 
VOL. 11. A a 



370 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

himself with a cloud, and after all that we have done, it is still night 
with our souls ; God seems not to be at home, he seems not to value 
our prayers ; we call, and cry and shout out for assurance, and yet he 
•hutteth out our prayer ; we are sure that we have not found praying 
times to be times of assurance to our souls, &c.. Lam. iii. 8. 
Ans. 1. Now to this objection I shall give these answers : 
(1.) First, That it may be you have been more earnest and vehement 
for assurance, and the effects of it, viz., joy, comfort, and peace, than 
you have been for grace and holiness, for communion with God, and 
conformity to God.' It may be your requests for assurance have been 
full of life and spirits, when your requests for grace and holiness, for 
communion with God, and conformity to God, have been lifeless and 
spiritless. If so, no wonder that assurance is denied you. Assurance 
makes most for your comfort, but holiness makes most for God's honour. 
Man's holiness is now his greatest happiness, and in heaven man's 
greatest happiness will be his perfect holiness. Assurance is the daughter 
of holiness ; and he that shall more highly prize, and more earnestly 
press after the enjoyment of the daughter than the mother, it is not a 
wonder if God shuts the door upon him, and crosses him in the thing 
he most desires. The surest and the shortest way to assurance is to 
wrestle and contend with God for holiness, as the angel contended with 
the devil about the body of Moses, Jude 9. When the stream and 
cream of a man's spirit runs after holiness, it will not be long night with 
that man ; the Sun of righteousness will shine forth upon that man, 
and turn his winter into summer, and crown him with the diadem of 
assurance, Mai. iv. 2. The more holy any person is, the more excellent 
he is. All corruptions are diminutions of excellency. The more mixed 
anything is, the more it is abased, as if gold and tin be mixed ; and 
the more pure it is as mere gold, the more glorious it is.^ Now the 
more divinely excellent any man is, the more fit he is to enjoy the 
choicest and highest favours. Assurance is a jewel of that value, that 
he will bestow it upon none but his excellent ones, Ps. xvi. 3. Assur- 
ance is that tried gold, that none can wear but those that win it in a 
way of grace and holiness, Rev. iii. 18. It may be, if thou hadst 
minded, and endeavoured more after communion with God, and con- 
formity to God, thou mightest before this time have looked upward, 
and seen God in Christ smiling upon thee, and have looked inward into 
thy own soul, and seen the Spirit of grace witnessing to thy spirit that 
thou wert a son, an heir, an heir of God, and a joint heir with Christ, 
Rom. viii. 15-17. But thou hast minded more thy own comfort than 
Christ's honour ; thou hast minded the blossoms and the fruit, assur- 
ance and peace, more than Christ the root; thou hast minded the 
springs of comfort, more than Christ, the fountain of life ; thou hast 
minded the beams of the sun, more than the Sun of righteousness ; and 
therefore it is but a righteous thing with God to leave thee to walk 
in a valley of darkness, to hide his face from thee, and to seem to be 
as an enemy to thee. 

Ans. 2. But secondly, I answer, It may he thou art not yet Jit for so 

* It is better to ask and not receive, than to receive and not ask — Clement. 
» The Jews havu a saying, that tliose seventy souls that went down to Egypt were 
more worth than the seventy nations of the world. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34i.] heaven on eaeth. 371 

choice a mercy, thou art not able to bear so great a favour. Many 
heads are not able to bear strong waters. Why, the very quintessence 
of all the strong consolations of God are wrung out into this golden cup of 
assurance ; and can you drink of this cup, and not stammer norstagger? 
Believe it, assurance is meat for strong men ; few babes, if any, are able 
to bear it, and digest it.' The apostle saith, Heb. V. 12, 14, that ' strong 
meat belongeth to them that are of full age' (or that are comparatively 
perfect, or full-grown), 'even those who, by reason of use' (Greek, by 
reason of habit, which is got by continual custom and long practice*), 
' have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil.' The Greek 
word properly signifies such an exercise as wrestlers, or such as contend 
for victory, do use, which is with all their might and strength, being 
trained up unto it by long exercise. It may be, O complaining Christian, 
that thou art but a scrub,^ a babe in gi*ace, 1 Cor. iii. 1-3 ; happily thou 
art not yet got beyond the breast, or, if thou art, yet thou art not past 
the spoon. Ah ! Christian, if it be thus with thee, cease complaining of 
want of assurance, and be up and growing ; be more aged in grace and 
holiness, and thou shalt find assurance growing upon thee.* Divine 
wisdom sparkles much in this, in giving milk to babes that are more 
carnal than spiritual, and meat, i.e. assurance, to strong men, that have 
more skill and will, that have a greater ability and choicer faculty to 
prize arid improve this jewel assurance than babes have. The Hebrew 
word chahodh signifies both weight and glory^ ; and verily, glory is such 
a weight, that if the body were not upheld by that glorious power that 
raised Jesus Christ from the grave, if it were not bore up by everlasting 
arms, it were impossible it should bear it, Deut. xxxiii. 27. Now assur- 
ance is the top of glory, it is the glory of glory. Then certainly they 
had need be very glorious within that shall be crowned with such a 
weight of glory as assurance is, Ps. xlv. 1 3. Well ! remember this, it is 
mercy to want mercy till we are fit for mercy, till we are able to bear 
the weight of mercy, and make a divine improvement of mercy. 

Ans. 3. Thirdly, You Diust distinguish between delays and denials.^ 
God may delay us, when he does not deny us ; he may defer the giving 
in of a mercy, and yet, at last, give the very mercy begged. Barren 
Hannah prays, year after year, for a mercy. God delays her long, but 
at last gives her her desire ; and the text says expressly, that her coun- 
tenance was no more sad, 1 Sam. i. 1 8. After many prayers and tears, 
the Lord comes in, and assures her, that she should have the desire of 
her soul ; and now she mourns no more, but sits down satisfied, com- 
forted, and cheered. After much praying, waiting, and weeping, God 
usually comes with his hands and heart full of mercy to his people. He 
loves not to come vacuis manibus, empty-handed, to those that have 
sat long with wet eyes at mercy's door. Christ tries the faith, patience, 
and constancy of the Canaanite woman, Mat. xv. 21-29 ; he deferred 
and delayed her, he reproached and repulsed her ; and yet at last is 

" Job XV. 11. Divine comfort is a delicate thing, and it not given to him that admits 
of any other. ^ rtktiut , . . ^la rtiv t|jv ret alfSri'ri^ia lytyvfttairftivK. 

3 ' A mean fellow.' — G. 

* Invalidum omne natura qutrulum. — Seneca. Weak spirits are ever quarrelling and 
contepnding. " 1U3. So the Chaldee lp\ 

® Every audience increaseth love, thanks, and trust, Ps. cxvi. 1-3. And those mercies 
are best improved, which we receive after we have been long upon our kuees. 



372 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

overcome by her, as not being able any longer to withstand her impor- 
tunate requests. ' O woman, great is thy faith ; be it unto thee, even 
as thou wilt'^ Christ puts her off at first, but closes with her at last ; 
at first a good word, a good look is too good for her, but at last good 
words and good looks are too little for her : ' Be it unto thee, -even as 
thou wilt.' At first Christ carries himself to her as a churlish stranger, 
but at last as an amorous lover. Though at first he had not an ear to 
hear her, yet at last he had a heart to grant her, not only her desires, 
but even what else she would desire over and above what she had 
desired. God heard Daniel at the beginning of his supplications, and 
his bowels of love was working strongly towards him, but the angel 
Gabriel doth not inform Daniel of this till afterwards, Dan. ix. 15-25. 
Praying souls, you say that you have prayed long for assurance, and yet 
you have not obtained it. Well, pray still. Oh pray and wait, wait 
and pray ; ' the vision is for an appointed time, but at the end it shall 
speak, and not lie : though it tarry, wait for it ; because it will surely 
come, it will not tarry,' Hab. ii. 3. God hath never, God will never, 
fail the praying soul ; at the long run, thou shalt be sure to obtain that 
assurance that will richly recompense thee for all thy praying, waiting, 
and weeping ; therefore hold up and hold on praying, though God doth 
delay thee, and my soul for thine, thou shalt reap in due season such a 
harvest of joy and comfort, as will sufficiently pay thee for all thy pains, 
Gal. vi. 9. Shall the husbandman wait patiently for the precious fruits 
of the eai'th, James v. 7; and wilt not thou wait patiently for assurance, 
which is a jewel more worth than heaven and earth ? Pra3'ing souls, re- 
member this. It is but weakness to think that men shall reap as soon as 
they sow, that they shall reap in the evening when they have but sowed 
in the morning. Titus Vespasian never dismissed any petitioner with 
a tear in his eye, or with a heavy heart •,'^ and shall we think that the 
God of compassions will always dismiss the petitioners of heaven with 
tears in their eyes ? Surely no.^ 

VIII. Ei{/hthly, Sometimes beforethe soulis deeply engaged in sore con- 
flicts with Satan, the Lord is graciously pleased to visit hisjjeople with 
his loving-kindness, and to give them scnne sv;eet assurance, that thovgh 
they are tempted, yet they shall not he worsted; though they are tried, yet 
tliey shall he crowned, 1 John x. 28 ; though Satan doth roar as a lion 
upon the soul, yet he shall not make a prey of the soul; for the Lion 
of the tHhe of Judah will hold it fast, and none shall pluck it out of 
his hand. Rev. v. 5. God first fed Israel with manna from heaven, and 
gave them water to drink out of the rock, before their sore fight with 
Amalek, Exod. xvii 8, &c. Before Paul was buffeted by Satan, he was 
caught up into the third heaven, where he had very glorious visions 
and revelations of the Lord, even such as he was not able to utter, 
2 Cor. xii. 1-8. Before Jesus Christ was led into the wilderness to be 
tempted by Satan, to question and doubt of his Sonship. he heard a 
voice from heaven, saying, ' This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well 
pleased.' Mat. iii. 17. The Spirit of the Lord did first descend upon 
him as a dove, before Satan fell upon him as a lion. God walks with 

' Exclamat tanquam victus, lie cries out as conquerpd. — Burgends. 

* Suetonius. ^ This truth many choice Chribtians have found by experience. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 373 

his people some turns in paradise, and gives them some tastes of his 
right-hand pleasures, before Satan, by his tempting, shall do them a dis- 
plea-sure, Ps. xvi. 11. But I must hasten to a close of this chapter ; and 
therefore, 

IX. Ninthly, and lastly. After some sharp conflicts vAth Satan, Ood 
is ffraciously pleased to lift up the light of his countenance upon his 
people, and to ivarm and cheer their hearts with the beams of hi a 
love, :^ Mat. iv. 11, 'Then the devil leaveth him, and behold, angels 
came and ministered unto him.' When Christ had even spent himself 
in foiling and quelling, in resisting and scattering Satan's temptations, 
then the angels come and minister cordials and comforts unto him. So 
after Paul had been buffeted by Satan, he heard that sweet word from 
heaven, ' My grace is sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect 
in weakness,' 'Z Cor. xii. 7-10, which filled his heart with joy and glad- 
nessv The hidden manna, the new name, and the white stone, is given 
to the conqueror. Rev. vii. 17 ; to him that hath fought 'with principa- 
lities, and powers, and spiritual wickedness in high places,' lilph. vi. 12, 
and is come off with his garments dipped in blood. After the Roman 
generals had gotten victory over their enemies, the senate did use not 
one way, but many ways, to express their loves to them. So after our 
faith hath gotten victory over Satan, God usually takes the soul in his 
arms, and courts it, and shews much kindness to it. Now the soul 
shall be carried in triumph, now the chariot of state attends the soul, 
now white raiment is put upon the soul. Rev, iii. 5, and vii. 9 ; now 
palms are put into the conqueror's hands, now the garland is set upon 
the conqueror's head, and now a royal feast is provided, where God will 
set the conqueror at the upper end of the table, arvd speak kindly, and 
carry it sweetly towards him, as one much affected and taken with his 
victory over the prince of darkness. Conflicts with Satan are usually 
the sharpest and the hottest ; they spend and waste most the vital and 
noble spirits of the saints ; and therefore the Lord, after such conflicts, 
doth ordinarily give his people his choicest and his strongest cordials.^ 

And thus, by divine assistance, we have shewed you the special times 
and seasons wherein the Lord is graciously pleased to give his people 
some tastes of his love, some sweet assurance, that they are his favour- 
ites, that all is well, and shall be for ever well between him and them ; 
and that, though many things may trouble them, yet nothing^ shall sepa- 
rate them from their God, their Christ, their crown. 



CHAPTER III. 

Containing the several hindrances and impediments that keep poor 
souls from assurance ; with the means and lielps to remove those 
impediments and hindrances. 

(1.) The first impediment. Now the first impediment and hindrance 
to assurance that we shall instance in, is, DespaiHng thoughts of mercy. 
Oh !, these imprison the soul, and make it always dark with the soul ; 

' Non tanquam misericordes indigenli, sed tanquam suljecti omnipotenti. — Augastine, 
Horn. viii. * Aa many have found by experience. 



374? HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

these shut the windows of the soul, that.no light can come in to cheer 
it. Despairing thoughts make a man fight against God with his own 
weapons ; they make a man cast all the cordials of the Spirit against 
the wall, as things of no value ; they make a man suck poison out of 
the sweetest promises ; they make a man eminent in nothing unless it 
be in having hard thoughts of God, and in arguing against his own soul 
and happiness, and in turning his greatest advantages into disadvan- 
tages, his greatest helps into his greatest hindrances.* Despairing 
thoughts of mercy make a man below the beast that perisheth. Pliny 
speaks of the scorpion, that there is not one minute wherein it doth not 
put forth the sting, as being unwilling to lose any opportunity of doing 
mischief'^ Such scorpions are despairing souls, they are still a-putting 
out their stings, a-wrangling with God, or Christ, or the Scripture, or 
the saints, or ordinances, or their own souls. A despairing soul is Magor- 
missabib, a terror to himself; it cannot rest, but, like Noah's ark, is al- 
ways tossed here and there ; it is troubled on every side, it is full of 
fears and fightings.^ A despairing soul is a burden to others, but the 
greatest burden to itself It is still a-vexing, terrifying, tormenting, con- 
demning, and perplexing itself Despair makes every sweet bitter, and 
every bitter exceeding bitter ; it puts gall and wormwood into the 
sweetest wine, and it puts a sting, a cross, into every cross.* Now whilst 
the soul is under these despairing thoughts of mercy, how is it possible 
that it should attain to a well grounded assurance. Therefore for the 
helping of the soul out of this despairing condition, give me leave a 
little to expostulate with despairing souls. Tell me, despairing 
souls, is not despair an exceeding vile and contemptible sin ? Is it not 
a dishonour to God, a reproach to Christ, and a murderer of souls ? Is 
it not a belying of God, a denying of Christ, and a crowning of Satan ? 
It doth without doubt proclaim the devil a conqueror, and lifts hira up 
above Christ himself* Despair is an evil that flows from the greatest 
evil in the world ; it flows from unbelief, from ignorance, and misappre- 
hensions of God and his grace, and from mistakes of Scripture, and 
from Satan, who, being for ever cast out of paradise, labours with all his 
art and might to work poor souls to despair of ever entering into para- 
dise. O despairing souls, let the greatness of this sin effectually 
awaken you, and provoke you to labour as for life, to come out of this 
condition, which is as sinful as it is doleful, and as much to be hated as 
[to] be lamented. 

Again, tell me, O despairing souls, hath not despairing Judas per- 
ished, whenas the murderers of Christ, believing on him, were saved ? 
Did not Judas sin more heinously by despairing than by betraying 
of Christ ?* Despairing Spira is damned, when repenting Manasseh is 
saved. O despairing souls, the arras of mercy are open to receive a 

' There is a threefold despair : 1, worldly ; 2, moral ; 3, spiritual. And this last is 
the worst and greatest. 

« Nat. Hist. lib. xi. cap. 30 (25).— G. 

3 It makes a man call good evil, and evil good ; light darkness, and darkness light ; 
sweet bitter, and bitter sweet ; a Saviour a destroyer, a Redeemed a revenger, &c. [Cf. 
Isa. v. 20, &c.— G.] 

* A despairing soul is like the spider, that draws poison out of the sweetest flowers. 

" Despair is Satan's master piece ; it carries men headlong to hell ; it makes a man 
twice-told a child of hell ; it is a viper that hath stinged many a man to death. 

^ Flut peccavil Judat duperando quam prodendo Christum, saith one. 



Rom. VIIL 32-34.] heaven on earth. 375 

Manasseh, a monster^ a devil incarnate ; he caused that gospel prophet 
Isaiah to be sawed in the midst with a saw, as some rabbins say ; he 
turned aside from the Lord to commit idolatry, and caused his sons to 
pass through the fire, and dealt with familiar spirits, and made the 
streets of Jerusalem to overflow with innocent blood, 2 Chron. xxxiii. 
1-15. The soul of Mary Magdalene was full of devils ; and yet Christ 
casts them out, and made her heart his house, his presence chamber, 
Luke vii. 47. Why dost thou then say there is no hope for thee, O 
despairing soul ? Paul was full of rage against Christ and his people, 
and full of blasphemy and impiety, and yet behold, Paul is a chosen 
vessel, Paul is caught up into the heaven, and he is filled with the 
gifts and graces of the Holy Ghost, Acts viii. 1, 2 ; ix. 1 ; xxvi. 11 ; 
1 Tim. i. 13, 15, 16. Why shouldst thou then say there is for thee no 
help, O despairing soul ! Though the prodigal had run from his 
father, and spent and wasted all his estate in ways of baseness and 
wickedness, yet upon his resolution to return, his father meets him, and 
instead of killing him, he kisses ; instead of kicking him, he embraces 
him ; instead of shutting the door upon him, he makes sumptuous pro- 
vision for him, Luke xv. 13-23. And how then dost thou dare to say, 
despairing soul, that God will never cast an eye of love upon thee, 
nor bestow a crumb of mercy on thee ! The apostle tells you of some 
monstrous miscreants that were unrighteous, fornicators, idolaters, adul- 
terers, effeminate, abusers of themselves with mankind, thieves, covetous, 
drunkards, revilers, extortioners ; and yet these monsters of mankind, 
through the infinite goodness and free grace of God, are washed from 
the filth and guilt of their sins, and justified by the righteousness of 
Christ, and sanctified by the Spirit of Christ, and decked and adorned 
with the precious graces of Christ, 1 Cor. vi. 9-11. Therefore do not 
say, despairing soul, that thou shalt die in thy sins, and lie down 
at last in everlasting sorrow.' Did it make for the honour and glory of 
his free grace to pardon them, and will it be a reproach to his free grace 
to pardon thee? Could God be just in justifying such ungodly ones, 
and shall he be unjust in justifying of thee ? Did not their unworthi- 
ness and unfitness for mercy turn the stream of mercy from them ? 
No. Why then, O despairing soul, shouldst thou fear that thy un- 
worthiness and unfitness for mercy will so stop and turn the stream 
of mercy, as that thou must perish eternally for want of one drop of 
special grace and mercy ? 

Again, tell me, despairing soul, is not the grace of God free 
grace, is not man's salvation of free grace V ' By grace ye are saved,' 
Ephes. ii. 8. Every link of this golden chain is grace. It is free grace 
that chose us, Rom. xi. 5. Even so then at this present time also there 
is ' a remnant according to the election of gi-ace.' It is free grace that 
chooses some to be jewels from all eternity, that chooses some to life, 
when others are left in darkness. 

The Lord Jesus Christ is a gift of free grace. Christ is the greatest, 
the sweetest, the choicest, the chiefest gift that ever God gave ; and yet 

* O despairing souls, are you good at burning, that you have no mercy on yourselves, 
buttto argue to your own undoing '? 

* Sub laudibus naturae latent inimici gratiae, — Augustine. The patrons of man's free 
will are enemies to God's free grace. 



376 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

this gift is given by a hand of love. ' God so loved the world that he 
gave his only begotten Son,' &c., John iii. lb' ; Isa. ix. 6 ; John iv. 10. 
Here is a sic without a sicut, 'God so loved the world ;' so freely, so vehe- 
mently, so fully, so^ admirably, so unconceivably, ' That he gave his 
only Son,' Hi.s Son, not his servant, his begotten Son, not his adopted 
Son, yea, his only begotten Son. 

I have read of one that had four sons; and in a famine, sore oppressed 
with hunger, the parents resolved to sell one for relief; but then they 
considered with themselves which of the four they should sell. They 
said the eldest was the first of their strength, therefore loath were they 
to sell him The second was the picture of their father, and therefore 
loath were they to part with him. The third was like the mother, and 
therefore they were not willing to part with him. The fourth, and 
youngest, was the child of their old age, their Benjamin, the dearly 
beloved of them both ; and therefore they were resolved not to part with 
any of them, and so would rather suffer themselves to perish than to 
part with any of their children.^ 

Oh ! but God's heart is so strongly set upon sinners, that he freely 
gives Jesus Christ, who is his first-born, who is his very picture, who is 
his beloved Benjamin, who is his chiefest joy, who is his greatest de- 
light. As Solomon speaks : Prox. viii. 30. ' Then I was by him as one 
brougVit up with him, and I was daily his delight' (in the Hebrew D^yiS^VB', 
' his delights,' that is, his greatest delight), ' rejoicing always before him,' 
or sporting greatly before him, as little ones do before their parents. 
Why, then, O despairing soul ! doest thou sit down sighing, and walk 
up and down mourning, and sadly conchiding that there is no mercy 
for thee ? Hold up thy head, O despairing soul ! Jesus Christ himself 
is a gift of free grace. The consideration of his free, boundless, bottom- 
less, and endless love, may afford thee much matter of admiration and 
consolation, but none of desperation.* 

And as Jesus Christ is a gift of free grace, or a free-grace gift, so the 
precious covenant of grace is a gift of grace : Gen. xvii. 2, ' I will make 
my covenant betwixt me and thee ;' but in the original it is, ' I will 
give thee my covenant,' ^nnn njnxv Here you see that the covenant of 
grace is a free gift of grace. 

God gave the covenant of the priesthood untoPhinehas as a gift,Num. 
XXV. 1 2 ; so God gives the covenant of grace as a gift of favour and 
grace to all that he takes unto covenant with himself. From first to 
last all is from free grace. God loves freely : * I will heal their back- 
sliding ; I will love them freely,' &c., Hosea xiv. 4. 

So Moses : ' The Lord,' saitii he, ' set his love upon you to take you 
into covenant with him : not because you were more in number than 
other people, but because he loved you, and chose your fathers,' Deut. 
vii. 7, 8. 

The only ground of God's love is his love. The ground of God's love 
is only and wiioUy in himself. There is neither portion nor proportion 
in us to draw his love. There is no love nor lovelmess in us that should 

* But Ood, thou despairing soul, is pater miseratiomim, he is all bowels, he will not 
stand upon giving his most lovely Son to most uulovely souls 

* Christ is called the gift of God, and the free gift of God, five times together in Bom. 
T. 15-18. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 377 

cause a beam of his love to shine upon us. There is that enmity, that 
filthiness, that treacherousness, that unfaithfulness, to be found in every 
man's bosom, as might justly put God upon glorifying himself in their 
eternal ruin, and to write their names in his black book in characters of 
blood and wrath.' And as God loves freely, so God justifies us freely : 
Rom. iii. 21, ' Being justified freely by his grace through the redemption 
that is in Jesus Christ.' And as poor sinners are justified freely, so they 
are pardoned freely : Acts v, 31, ' Him hath God exalted,' speaking of 
Christ, ' with his right hand, to be a Prince and a Saviour, for to give re- 
pentance to Israel, and forgiveness of sins.' And as they are pardoned 
freely, so they shall b« saved freely : Rom. vi. 23, ' For the wages of sin 
is death, but the gift of God is eternal life,' &c.^ Thus you see, de- 
spairing souls ! that all is of free grace ; from the lowest to the highest 
round of Jacob's ladder all is of grace. Christ is a donative, the covenant 
of grace is a donative, pardon of sin is a donative, heaven and salvation 
is a donative. Why, then, O despairing souls ! should you sit down 
sighing under such black, sad, and dismal apprehensions of God, and 
your own state and coudition ? 

Verily, seeing all happiness and blessedness comes in a way of free 
grace, and not in a way of doing, not in a way of works, you should arise, 
O despairing souls ! and cast off all despairing thoughts, and drink of 
the waters of life freely, Rev. xxi. 6, xxiu 18. What though thy heart 
be dead, and hard, and sad ; what though thy sins be many, and thy 
fears great ; yet behold here is glorious grace, rich grace, wondrous 
grace, matchless and incomparable riches of free grace .spread before thee. 
Oh ! let this fire warm thee, let these waters refresh thee, let these 
cordials strengthen thee, that it may be day and no longer night with' 
thee, that thy mourning may be turned into rejoicing, and that thy 
beautiful garments may be put on, that so the rest of thy days may l)e 
days of gladness and sweetness, and free grace may be an everlasting 
shade, shelter, and rest unto thee, Isa. Iii. 1. 

Again, tell me, O despairing souls ! do you understand, and most 
seriously and frequently ponder upon those particular scriptures that do 
most clearly, sweetly, and fully discover the mercies of God, the bowels 
of God, the grace and favour of God to poor sinners, as that Ps. Ixxxvi. 
5, ' For thou. Lord, art good, and ready to forgive, and plenteous in 
mercy, unto all them that call upon thee'? God's mercies are above all 
his works, and above all ours too. His mercy is without measures and 
rulea All the acts and attributes of God sit at the feet of mercy. The 
weapons of God's artillery are turned into the rainbow ; a bow, indeed, 
but without an arrow, bent but without a string. The rainbow is an 
emblem of mercy ; it is a sign of grace and favour, and an assurance 
that God will remember his covenant. It is fresh and green, to note to 
us that God's mercy and grace to poor sinners is always fresh anJ green,' 

Again, tell me, O despairing souls ! have you seriously pondered upon 

* God will have all blessings and happiness to flow from free grace : (1.) that the worst 
of sinners may have strong grounds for hope and comfort ; (2.) for the prai.se of his own 
glory; (3.) that vain man may not boast; (4.) that our mercies and blessings may be 
sure to us. 

» ^f.^igii,a, Tov etfltf, the gracious gift of God. Chariama signifies a gift flowing from the 
free grace and favour of God, John x. 28. 

* The rainbow ia signum gratice et faederit. 



378 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

Neh. ix. IG, 17, ' But they and our fathers dealt proudly, and hardened 
their necks, and hearkened not to thy commandments, and refused to 
obey ; neither were mindful of the wonders that thou didst among 
them, but hardened their necks, and in their rebellion appointed a cap- 
tain to return to their bondage. But thou art a God ready to pardon, 
gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindness, and for- 
sookest them not ' ? ' Thou art a God,' says he, ' ready to pardon,' or 
rather as it is in the original, ' And thou a God of pardons' [ni'?N nnxi 
nilT'^D]. There is a very great emphasis in this Hebraism, ' a God of 
pardons.' It shews us that mercy is essential unto God, and that he is 
incomparable in forgiving iniquity, transgression, and sin. Here Nehe- 
miah sets him forth as one made up all of pardoning grace and mercy. 
As a circle begins everywhere, but ends nowhere, so do the mercies of 
God, Micah vii. 18. 

When Alexander did sit down before a city, he did use to set up a 
light, to give those within notice that if they came forth to him whilst 
the light lasted, they might have quarter ; if otherwise, no mercy was 
to be expected. Oh ! but such is the mercy and patience of God to 
sinners, that he sets up light after light, and waits year after year upon 
them. When they have done their worst against him, yet then he 
comes with his heart full of love, and his hands full of pardons, and 
makes a proclamation of grace, that if now at last they will accept of 
mercy, they shall have it, Luke xiii. 7, Jer. iii. 1-15. Why, then, O 
despairing soul ! dost thou make thy life a hell by having such low 
and mean thoughts of God's mercy, and by measuring of the mercies 
and bowels of God by the narrow scantling' of thy weak and dark under- 
standing ? 

Again, tell me, O despairing souls ! have you seriously pondered upon 
those words in Isa. Iv. 7-9 : ' Let the wicked forsake his way, and the 
unrighteous man' (or rather as it is in the original, 'the man of iniquity'*) 
' his thoughts, and let him return unto the Lord, and he will have 
mercy upon him, and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon,' or as 
it is in. the original, * He will multiply to pardon.'^ ' For my thoughts 
are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, saith the 
Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways 
higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts' ? Turn, 
despairing souls ! to these scriptures : Num. xiv. 19, 20 ; Exod. xxxiv. 
6, 7 ; Micah vii. 18, 19 ; Isa. xxx. 18, 19 ; Ps. Ixxviii. 34-4-0 ; ciii. 8-13 ; 
Jer. iii. 1-12 ; Luke xv. 20-24 ; 1 Tim. i. 13-17 ; and tell me whether 
you have seriously and frequently pondered upon them ! 

Oh ! how can you look so much grace and so much love and favour, 
and such tender bowels of compassion, in the face, as appears in these 
scriptures, and yet rack and tear your precious souls with despairing 
thoughts ! 

Oh ! there is so much grace and goodness, so much love and favour, 
so much mercy and glory, sparkling and shining through these scrip- 

* » Measurement' or portion ; another Sb&kesperian word, ' Scantling of good or bad,' 
Troilus and Cressida, i. 8. — G. 

* ]1K K'N"'"!, veish aven ; the man of iniquity, t. e. one that makes a trade of sin. 

^ n2"l*"*3. He will multiply to pardon, or he will increase his pardon, as the sinner 
increases his sins. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 379 

tures, as may allay tte strongest fears, and scatter the thickest dark- 
ness, and cheer up the saddest spirits, &c. 

Again, tell me, O despairing souls, do you not do infinite wrong to 
the precious blood of the Lord Jesus? Three things are called precious 
in the Scripture : the blood of Christ is called 'precious blood,' I Peter 
i. 19 ; and faith is called 'precious faith,' 2 Peter i. 1 ; and the pro- 
mises are called 'precious promises?,' 2 Peter i. 4. Now, what a reproach 
is it to this precious blood, ' that speaks better things than the blood of 
Abel,' Heb. xii. 24, for you to faint and sink under the power of despair; 
what doth this speak out ? Oh ! doth it not proclaim to all the world 
that there is no such worth and virtue, no such power and efficacy in 
the blood of Christ, as indeed there is ? Oh ! how will you answer this 
to Christ in that day wherein his blood shall speak and plead, not only 
with the profane that have trodden it under their feet, but also with 
despairing souls that have undervalued the power, virtue, and merit of 
it ? Heb. X. 29.' Hath not the blood of Jesus Christ washed away the 
sins of a world of notorious sinners, and is it not of virtue to wash away 
the sins of one sinner ? Hath it had that power in it as to bring many 
thousands to glory already, and is there not so much virtue left in it 
as to bring thy soul to glory ? 1 John i. 7-9. Hath it actually de- 
livered such a multitude from wrath to come as cannot be numbered, 
and is the virtue of it so far spent as that it cannot reach to thy 
deliverance ? Are there not yet millions of thousands that shall here- 
after be actually saved and justified by this blood V Why, then, 
shouldst thou despair of being justified and saved from wrath to come 
by the virtue and power of this precious blood? There were five monks 
that were studying what was the best means to mortify sin. One said, 
to meditate on death ; the second, to meditate on judgment ; the third, 
to meditate on the joys of heaven ; the fourth, to meditate on the tor- 
ments of hell ; the fifth, to meditate on the blood and sufferings of 
Jesus Christ: and certainly, the last is the choicest and strongest motive 
of all to the mortifying of sin. despairing souls, despairing souls ! 
if ever you would cast off your despairing thoughts and get out of your 
present hell, then dwell much, muse much, and apply much this pre- 
cious blood to your own souls. So shall ' sorrow and mourning flee 
away, and everlasting joy shall rest upon you,' and the Lord shall give 
you ' an everlasting name,' and be ' everlasting light and glory to you,' 
and * you shall be no more called Forsaken ;' for ' the Lord will re- 
joice over you,'^ and be a well-spring of life unto you, and make his 
abode with you, and turn your sighing into singing, your trembling into 
rejoicing, and your prison into a paradise of pleasure ; so that your 
souls shall be able to stand up and say. Oh, blessed be God for Jesus 
Christ ; blessed be God for that precious blood that hath justified our 
persons, and quieted our consciences, and scattered our fears, and 
answered our doubts, and given us to triumph over sin, hell, and death. 
' Who is he that condemneth? it is Christ that died,' Rom. viii. 33-38. 

^ Una guttula plus valet quam caelum et terra. — Luther. 

* Sanguu Christi clavis ccelt. The blood of Christ is the key of heaven that hath let 
in millions, Rev. vii. 9, Isa. Ixvi. 8. ' A nation shall be born in a day;' when the Jews 
shallf be converted, a very glorious converting power shall accompany the means of 
salvation, that Christ may reign from sea to sea, &c. 

3 Isa. Iv. 11, Ivi. 5, Ix. 19, 20, and Ixii. 4, 5 ; John iv. 21, 23. 



380 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

The apostle, upon the account of Christ's death, of Christ's blood, cries 
out. Victory, victory ; he looks upon all his enemies and sings it 
sweetly out, 'Over all these we are more than conquerors,' or 'above 
conquerors.'* 

O despairing souls, to all your former sins do not add this, of mak- 
ing light and slight of the blood of Christ. As there is no blood- that 
saves soul.s like the blood of Christ, so there is no blood that sinks souls 
like the blood of Christ. A drop of this blood upon a man's head at 
last will make him miserable for ever ; but a drop of it upon a man's 
heart at last will make him happy for ever. In the day of vengeance, 
the destroying angel will spare you if this blood be found upon the 
door-posts of your hearts, otherwise you are lost for ever, Exod. xii. 7. 

Lastly, I can tell you, O despairing souls, that God hath brought 
some out of the very gulf of despair, out of the very belly of hell ; and 
therefore thou mayest hope that thy sins, that are thy present burden, 
shall not be thy future ruin. Doth not Asaph resemble the despairing 
soul to the life ? ' My soul refused to be comforted. I remembered 
God, and was troubled ; I complained, and my spirit was overwhelmed. 
Thou boldest mine eyes waking ; I am so troubled that I cannot speak.' 
' Will the Lord cast off for ever ? and will he be favourable no more ? 
Is his mercy clean gone for ever? and will his promise fail for ever- 
more? Hath God forgotten to be gracious ? hath he in anger shiit up 
his tender mercies V Ps. Ixxvii. 2-9. Now, out of this gulf God de- 
livers him: ver. 10, 'And I said. This is my infirmity;' or ' this maketh 
me sick,' as it is in the original, ^m'?n "i^Ni. Here Asaph checks him- 
self for casting the cordials, the comforts of the Spirit against the wall, 
and for his having such hard, sad, and black thoughts of God. And in 
the thirteenth verse he speaks like one dropped out of heaven : ' Thy 
way, O God, is in the sanctuary : who is so great a God as our God V 
Formerly, the thoughts of God troubled him and overwhelmed him ; 
but now, at last, the thoughts of the greatness of God, and of his in- 
terest in God, is matter of admiration and consolation to him. So Ha- 
man sighs it out thus : ' My soul is full of troubles, and my life draweth 
nigh unto the grave.' 'Thou hast laid me in the lowest pit, in dark- 
ness, in the deeps. Thy wrath lieth hard upon me, and thou hast 
afflicted me with all thy waves.' ' Lord, why casteth thou off my soul? 
why hidest thou thy face from me ? I am afflicted, and ready to die 
from my youth up ; while I suffer thy terrors, I am distracted. Thy 
fierce wrath goeth over me ; thy terrors have cut me off,' Ps. Ixxxviii. 
3, 6, 7, 14)-16.* And yet, for all this, Heman's state was good ; his 
soul was safe and happy : he calls God in the same psalm ' the God of 
his salvation,' ver. 1. So Jonah, when he was in the belly of hell, con- 
cludes, * that he was cast out of the sight of God,' Jonah ii. 4.' The 
sense of his sin, and of God's anger and wrath, was so eminent and 
transcendent upon him, that it even distracts him, and makes him speak 
like a despairing soul : ' I am cast out from the presence of the Lord ; 

' irip*ixifif is super vincimus, we do over-overcome. 

• All 'conclude that he was very holy, and his soul very happy, even while he was in 
this KwU of misery. 

3 \^\, G'lrask signifies to expulse and cast out, as Adam was ezpulsed out of paradise, 
Gen. iii. 24. It signifiea an ignominious expulsion. 



Rom. VIII. 32--34.] heaven on earth. 381 

I am expulsed out of God's sight/ as Moses was expulsed out of Egypt. 
God hath cast me out as one in whom he can take no pleasure nor de- 
light, as a husband doth a wife that hath been false and unfaithful to 
him ; and yet God's heart and love is so set upon Jonah that he will save 
him by a miracle rather than he shall not be saved. Jonah was much 
in the heart of God, and God made his faith at last victorious. To 
these I shall add some other famous instances. In king James his time 
there was one Mistress Honiwood of Kent, an ancient and religious gentle- 
woman, who lived many years in much horror and terror of conscience, for 
want of assurance of the favour of God, and of her eternal well-being. 
She would very often cry out, 'She was damned, she was damned.' Several 
men of eminent piety and parts, left no means unattempted, whereby her 
doubts might be answered, her conscience pacified, and her soul satisfied 
and cheered ; yet she being strongly under the power of despair, per- 
sisted in crying out, 'Oh! she was damned, she was damned.' When 
these gentlemen were about to depart, she called for a cup of wine for 
them, which being brought, she drank to one of them a glass of the 
wine, and as soon as she had done, in an extreme passion she threw 
the Venice glass against the ground, saying, 'As sure as this glass will 
break, so surely am I damned.' The glass rebounded from the ground 
without any harm, which one of the ministers suddenly caught in his 
hand, and said, * Behold, a miracle from heaven to confute your unbelief. 
Oh ! tempt God no more, tempt God no more.' Both the gentlewoman 
and all the company were mightily amazed at this strange accident, 
and all glorified God for what was done ; and the gentlewoman, by the 
grace and mercy of God, was delivered out of her hell of despair, and 
was filled with much comfort and joy, and lived and died full of peace 
and assurance.' 

Take another instance. There lived lately at Tilbury, in Essex, a 
gentleman who was a long time under such an eminent degree of 
despair, that he rejected all comfort that was tendered to him by any 
hand, and would not suffer any to pray with him ; nay, he sent to the 
ministers and Christians that lived near him, and desired them, that as 
they would not increase his torments in hell, they would cease praying 
for him. He would not suffer any religious service to be performed in 
his family, though formerly himself was much in the use of them ; yet 
God gave him at last such inward refreshings, and by degrees filled 
him with such abundance of heavenly comforts, as he told all that came 
to him that it was impossible for any tongue to utter, or heart to ima- 
gine, that did not feel them. At last God gave him ' the new name, 
and the white stone, that none knows but he that hath it,' Rev. ii. 17. 
He lived about three quarters of a year, enjoying heaven upon earth, 
and then breathed out his last in the bosom of Christ. 

Poor I, that am but of yesterday, have known some that have been 
so deeply plunged in the gulf of despair, that they would throw all the 
spiritual cordials that have been tendered to them against the walls. 
They were strong in reasoning against their own souls, and resolved 
against everything that might be a comfort and support unto them. 

*< The truth of this whole story is notoriously known. [Brooks quotes this also in his 
' Ark for all God's Noahs,' but there spells the name Hony wood. See Index, sub nomine. 
-G.] 



382 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34'. 

They have been much set against all ordinances and religious services ; 
they have cast off holy duties themselves, and peremptorily refused to 
join with others in them ; yea, they have, out of a sense of sin and 
wrath, which hath lain hard upon them, refused the necessary comforts 
of this life, even to the overthrow of natural life. And yet out of this 
horrible pit, this hell upon earth, hath God delivered their souls, and 
given them such manifestations of his grace and favour, that they would 
not exchange them for a thousand worlds. 

O despairing souls, despairing souls, you see that others, whose con- 
ditions have been as bad, if not worse than yours, have obtained mercy. 
God hath tiirned their hell into a heaven ; he hath remembered them 
in their low estate; he hath pacified their raging consciences, and quieted 
their distracted souls; he hath wiped all tears from their eyes; and he 
hath been a well-spring of life unto their hearts. Therefore be not 
discouraged, O despairing souls, but look up to the mercy-seat; remem- 
ber who is your rest, and kick no more, by despair, against the bowels 
of divine love. 

(2.) The second impediment to assurance is, men's entering into 
the lists of dispute with Satan about those things that are above their 
reach, as about the decrees and counsel of God. Oh by this Satan 
keeps many precious souls off from assurance. Since God hath cast 
him out of paradise, and bound him in chains of darkness, he will make 
use of all his skiU, power, and experience to draw men into the same 
misery with himself ; and if he cannot prevent their entering at last 
into paradise above, he will labour might and main to make their life 
a wilderness here below;' and to this purpose he will busy their thoughts 
and hearts about the decrees of God, and about their particular elec- 
tions ; as, whether God hath decreed them to eternal happiness, or 
chosen them to everlasting blessedness, &c., that so by this means he 
may keep them from that desirable assurance that may yield believers 
two heavens, a heaven of joy and comfort here, and a heaven of felicity 
and glory hereafter.^ 

It is said of Marcellus, the Roman general, that he could not be quiet, 
nee victor, nee victus, neither conquered, nor conqueror. Such a one 
is Satan: if he be conquered by faith, yet he will be essaying; if he 
conquers, yet he will be roaring and triumphing. Satan's great design 
is eternally to ruin souls ; and where he cannot do that, there he will 
endeavour to discomfit souls by busying them about the secret decrees 
and counsels of God. If the soul break through his temptations, as 
David's worthies did break through the hosts of the Philistines, 1 Sam. 
xxiii. ] 6, and snap his snares in sunder, as Samson did his cords, Judges 
XV. 13, 14, then his next shift is to engage them in such debates and 
disputes that neither men nor angels can certainly and infallibly deter- 
mine, that so he may spoil their comforts when he cannot take away 
their crown. 

Now thy wisdom and thy work, O doubting soul, lieth not in disput- 
ing, but in believing, praying, and waiting on God. No way to heaven, 

' 2 Sam. xiv. 19, ' Is not the hand of Joah with thee in all this ?' You know how to 
apply it. 

* Eorum qua scire nee datur, rue fat est, doeta est iffnorarUia; scientiae appctentia insanice 
tpedes. — Augustine. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on eakth. 383 

no way to assurance, like this. Adam disputes with Satan, and falls, 
and loses paradise ; Job believes, and resists Satan, and stands, and 
conquers upon the dunghill. When Satan, O trembling soul, would 
engage thee in disputes about this or that, say to him, ' Satan, revealed 
things belong to me,' but ' secret things belong to the Lord,' Deut. 
xxix. 29. It is dangerous to be curious in prying into hidden matters, 
and careless and negligent in observing known laws; say to him, Satan, 
thou hast been ' a liar and a murderer from the beginning,' John viii. 
44 ; thou art a professed enemy to the saints' confidence and assurance, 
to their consolation and salvation. If thou hast anything to say, say it 
to my Christ ; he is my comfort and crown, my joy and strength, my 
redeemer and intercessor, and he shall plead for me. Ah, Christians ! 
if you would but leave disputing, and be much in believing and obey- 
ing, assurance would attend you ; and you should ' lie down in peace, 
and take your rest, and none should make you afraid,' Job xi. 13-20. 

(3.) The third iTnpediment ihaX keeps poor souls from assurance, is, 
The want of a thorough search and examination of their oivn souls, 
and of what God hath done and is a-doing in them} Some there be 
that can read better in other men's books than in their own, and some 
there be that are more critical and curious in observing and studying 
other men's tempers, hearts, words, works, and ways, than their own. 
This is a sad evil, and causes many souls to sit down in darkness, even 
days without number. He that will not seriously and frequently 
observ^e the internal motions and actings of God, in and upon his noble 
part, his immortal soul, may talk of assurance, and complain of the want 
of assurance, but it will be long before he shall obtain assurance. O 
you staggering, wavering souls, you tossed and disquieted souls, know 
for a certain, that you will never come to experience the sweetness of 
assurance, till your eyes be turned inward, till you live more at home 
than abroad, till you dig and search for the mines that be in your own 
hearts, till you come to discern between a work of nature and a work 
of grace, till you come to put a difference between the precious and the 
vile, between God's work and Satan's work. When this is done, you 
will find the clouds to scatter, and the Sun of righteousness to shine 
upon you, and the day-star of assurance to rise in you. Doubting, 
trembling souls, do not deceive yourselves ; it is not a careless, slight, 
slender searching into your own hearts, that will enable you to see the 
deep, the secret, the curions, the mysterious work of God upon you. 
If you do not ' seek as for silver,' and search for Christ and grace ' as 
for hid treasures,' you will not find them, Prov. ii. 3-5. Your richest 
metals lie lowest, your choicest gems are in the bowels of the earth, and 
they that will have them, must search diligently, and dig deep, or else 
they must go without them.** Doubting souls, you must search, and 
dig again and again, and you must work and sweat, and sweat and 
work, if ever you will find those spiritual treasures, those pearls of price 
that are hid under the ashes of corruption, that lie low in the very bowels 
of your souls. 

Tell me, O doubting souls, hath that sweet word of the apostle been 

•Conradus's motto was a notable rule, Omnium mores, tuos imprimis observato, observe 
all men's carriages, but especially thy own. [Query, Conradus Alfonsus Mantuanus, 
1574 ? G.] * So saith Pliny, Seneca, and others. 



384« HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

ever made to stick in power upon you : 2 Cor. xiii. 5, ' Examine your- 
selves, whether you be in the faith ;' or, whether faith be in you, ' prove 
you' selves,' &c.' The precept is here doubled, to shew the necessity, 
excellency, and difficulty of the work ; to shew that it is not a super- 
ficial, but a thorough, serious, substantial examination that must enable 
a man to know whether he hath precious faith or no; whetlier he be 
Christ's spouse or the devil's strumpet. All is not gold that glisters ; all 
is not faith that men call faith ; therefore, he that would not prove a 
cheater to his own soul, must take some pains to search and examine 
how all is within. Climacus^ reports, that the ancients used to keep in 
a little book a memorial of what they did in the day against their 
night reckoning. But ah ! how few be there in those days that keeps a 
diary of God's mercies and their own infirmities, of s|)iritual experi- 
ences and the inward operations of heavenly graces I Seneca reports 
of a heathen man that every night asked himself these three questions : 
first. What evil hast thou healed this day ? secondly. What vice hast 
thou stood against this day ? thirdly. In w^hat part art thou bettered 
this day ? And shall not Christians take pains with their own hearts, 
and search day and night to find out what God hath done, and is a-doing 
there ? God hath his doing hand, his working hand in every man's 
heart; either he is a-working there in ways of mercy or of wrath; 
either he is building up or a-plucking down ; either he is a-making all 
glorious within, or else he is a-turning all into a hell. Well ! doubting 
souls, remember this, that the soundest joy, the strongest consolation, 
flow from a thorough examination of things within. This is the way to 
know how it is with you for the present, and how it is like to go with 
you for the future. This is the way to put an end to all the wranglings 
of your hearts, and to put you into a possession of heaven on this side 
heaven. 

(4.) Tlte fourth impediTnent that keeps many precious souls from 
assurance is. Their mistakes about the work of grace. Look, as many 
hypocrites do take a good nature for grace, and those common gifts and 
graces that may be in a Saul, a Jehu, a Judas, for a special distinguish- 
ing grace, &c., so the dear saints of God are very apt to take grace for 
a good nature, to take pearls of price for stones of no value, to take 
special grace for common grace. Many trembling souls are apt to call 
their faith unbelief, with the man in the Gospel, Mark ix. 24-, and their 
confidence presumption, and their zeal passion, &c. ; and by this means 
many are kept off from assurance. Now, the way to remove this im- 
pediment is, wisely and seriously to distinguish between renewing grace 
and restraining grace, betwixt common grace and special grace, betwixt 
temporary grace and sanctifying grace. Kow, the difference betwixt 
the one and the other I have shewed in ten particulars in my treatise 
called ' Precious Remedies against Satan's Devices,' from page 217 to 
page 230; and to that I refer thee for full and complete satisfaction. 

* vruoaltri, from «ri/»(w to pierce through, &c., S«*(^a|sTi, to prove and try, as goldsmiths 
try tlieir metal by the fire and the touchstone. God brings not a pair of scales to weigh 
our grace, but a touchstone to try our graces. If our gold be true, though it be never 
so little, it will pass current with him. He will not ' quench the smoking flax,' &c. 
[Mat. xii. 20.] 

» Climacus, Joannes, sumamed the Learned, called Climacus on account of a work 
written by him, entitled *X/jMa|. — G. 



Rom. VIII. 82-34.] heaven on eakth. 385 

If thou wilt cast thy eye upon the particulars, I doubt not but thou 
wilt find that profit and content that will recompense thee for thy 
pains. And this I thought more convenient to hint to thee, than to 
write over the same things that there thou wilt find to thy delight and 
settlement.' 

(5.) The fifth impediment to assurance is, Their grieving and vex- 
ing the Spirit of grace by not hearkening to his voice, by refusing his 
counsel, by stopping the ear, by throwing water upon that fire he 
kindles in their souls, and by attributing that to the Spirit that is to 
be attributed to men's own passions and distempers, and to the prince 
of darkness and his associates.^ By these and such like ways, they 
sad that precious Spirit that alone can glad them, they set him 
a-mourning that alone can set them a-rejoicing, they set him a-grieving 
that alone can set them a-singing ; and therefore it is that they sigh it out 
with Jeremiah, Lam. i. 16, ' Behold, he that should comfort our souls, 
stands afar off.'^ Ah, doubting souls ! if ever you would have assur- 
ance, you must observe the motions of the Spirit, and give up your- 
selves to his guidance ; you must live by his laws, and tread in his 
steps ; you must live in the Spirit, and walk in the Spirit ; you must 
let him be chief in your souls. This is the way to have him to be a 
sealing Spirit, a witnessing Spirit to your hearts. Believe it, souls, if 
this be not done, you will be far off from quietness and settlement. 
The word that in 1 John iii. 19 is rendered ' assure,' signifies to per- 
suade : to note to us that our hearts are forward and peevish, and apt to 
wrangle and raise objections against God, against Christ, against the 
Scripture, against our own and others' experiences, and against the sweet 
hints and joyings of the Spirit; and this they will do, especially when 
we omit what the Spirit persuades us to.* Omissions raises fears and 
doubts, and makes work for hell, or for the Spirit and physician of souls. 
Or else, when we do that which the Spirit dissuades us from. If you 
be kind and obedient to the Spirit, it will not be long night with your 
souls ; but if you rebel and vex him, he will make your life a hell, by 
withholding his ordinary influences, by denying to seal you to the day 
of redemption, and by giving you up to conflict with horrors and terrors, 
&c., Isa. Ixiii. 10. Therefore, be at the Spirit's beck and check, and 
assurance and joy will ere long attend you. 

(6.) The sixth impediment to assurance is. Doubting souls making 
their sense, reason, and feeling the judges of their spiritual conditions. 
Now so long as they take this course, they will never reach to assurance. 
Reason's arm is too short to reach this jewel assurance. This pearl of 
price is put in no hand but that hand of faith that reaches from earth 
to heaven. What tongue can express or heart conceive the fears, the 
doubts, the clouds, the darkness, the perplexities that will arise from 
the soul's reasoning thus : — I find not that the countenance of God is 

* The same man sells that, that sells this ; more to that point I cannot easily say. 

* Nil nisi sanctum a sancto Spiritu prodire potest, nothing can come from the Holy Spirit 
but that which is holy. 

' Smoke drives away bees, and an ill-savour drives away doves. Sin is such a smoke, 
such an ill-savour, as drives away this dove-like Spirit. 

* fl-s/VoitJv. The soul will not quite leave wrangling, till it be quiet in the bosom of 
Christ. 

VOL. II. B b 



386 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

towards me as before, Gen. xxxi. 5 ; therefore, surely my condition is 
bad ; I feel not those quickenings, those cheerings, those meltings as 
before ; I am not sensible of those secret stirrings and actings of the 
Spirit and grace in my soul as before ; I do not hear such good news 
from heaven as before ; therefore certainly God is not my God, I am 
not beloved, I am not in the state of grace, I have biit deceived 
myself and others ; and therefore the issue will be that I shall die in 
my sins. To make sense and feeling the judges of our spiritual con- 
ditions, what is it but to make ourselves happy and miserable, right- 
eous and unrighteous, saved and damned in one day, ay, in one hour, 
when sense and reason sit as judges upon the bench ? Hath God made 
sense and feeling the judges of your conditions ? No. Why, then, will 
you ? Is your reason Scripture ? Is your sense Scripture ? Is your 
feeling Scripture ? No. Why, then, will you make them judges of 
your spiritual estate ? Is not the word the judge, by which all men 
and their actions shall be judged at last ? ' The word that I have 
spoken,' says Christ, ' shall judge you in the last day/ John xii. 48. 
' To the law and to the testimony, if they speak not according to this 
word, it is because there is no light, or no morning in them,' Isa. viii. 
20 [1?"i''** inK'j. Why, then, doubting souls, will you make your 
sense and feeling the judge, not only of your condition, but of the truth 
itself ? What is this but to dethrone God, and to make a god of your 
sense and feeling ? What is this, but to limit and bind up the Holy 
One of Israel ? What is this but to toss the soul to and fro, and to ex- 
pose it to a labyrinth of fears and scruples ? What is this but to cast 
a reproach upon Christ, to gratify Satan, and to keep yourselves upon 
the rack ? Well ! doubting souls, the counsel that I shall give you is 
this, be much in believing, and make only the Scripture the judge of 
your condition ; maintain the judgment of the word against the 
judgment of sense and feeling ; and if upon a serious, sincere, and im- 
partial comparing of thy heart and the word together, of thy ways and 
the word together, the word speaks thee out to be sincere, to be a 
Nathanael, to be a new creature, to be born again, to have an immortal 
seed in thee, &c., cleave to the testimony of the word, joy in it, rest 
upon it, and give no more way to fears and doubts. Let thy counte- 
nance be no more sad ; for nothing can speak or make that soul miserable, 
that the word speaks out to be happy,' Ps. cxix. 24, '•tfJN ^n^y 

Constantino would have all differences and disputes in the Nicene 
Council endBd by the Bible.'^ doubting souls, look cheerfully to this, 
that all differences and controversies that arise in your hearts be ended 
by the word. There is danger in looking beside the Scripture, or 
beyond the Scripture, or short of the Scripture, or upon sense and feeling, 
so much as upon the Scripture ; therefore let the word be always the 
man of thy counsel : no way to assurance and joy, to settlement and 
establishment, like this. If you are resolved to make sense and feeling 
the judge of your conditions, you must resolve to live in fears, and lie 
down in tears. 

' Inclinauit Deus Scripturas ad infantium et lactantium capacitatem, saith one. God 
hath bowed down the Scriptures to the capacity even of babes and sucklings. Id agit 
tola scriptura, et credimus Deum esse misericordem. — Luther. 
* See ' Lives' of the Emperor, and all accounts of the Council of Nice. — G. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on eaeth. 387 

(7.) Tlie seventh impediment to assurance is, Men's remissness, 
carelessness, laziness, and overliness^ in religious services, and in the 
exercise of their gra^es."^ Ah, how active and lively are men in pursuing 
after the world ! but how lifeless and unactive in the ways of grace and 
holiness ! Ah, doubting Christians ! remember this, that the promise of 
assurance and comfort is made over, not to lazy but laborious Christians; 
not to idle but to active Christians ; not to negligent but to diligent 
Christians :' John xiv. 21-23, ' He that hath my commandments, and 
keepeth them, he it is that loveth me ; and he that loveth me shall be 
loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to 
him.^ Now ' Judas saith unto him (not Iscariot), liord ! how is it that 
thou wilt manifest thyself unto us, and not unto the world 1 Jesus an- 
swered and said unto him, If any man love me, he will keep my words : 
and my Father will love him, and we will come unto him, and make 
our abode with him.' So 2 Peter i. 10, 11, ' Wherefore the rather, 
brethren, give diligence to make your calling and election sure : for if 
you do these things, ye shall never fall : for so an entrance shall be 
ministered unto you abundantly into the everlasting kingdom of our 
Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.* 

A lazy Christian shall always want four things, viz., comfort, content, 
confidence, and assurance. God hath made a separation between joy 
and idleness, between assurance and laziness ; and therefore it is im- 
possible for thee to bring these together that God hath put so far 
asunder. Assurance and joy are choice donatives that Christ gives only 
to laborious Christians. The lazy Christian hath his mouth full of com- 
plaints, when the active Christian hath his heart full of comforts. God 
would have the hearts of his children to be hot in religious services. 
' Be fervent' (or seething hot, as it is in the original) ' in spirit, serving 
the Lord,'* Rom. xii. 11. 

That service that hath not heavenly heat, that hath not divine fire in 
it, is no service, it is lost service. A lazy spirit is always a losing spirit. 
Oh ! remember, lazy Christians, that God is a pure act, therefore he 
loves activeness in religious services. Remember the angels, those 
princes of glory, are full of life and activity, and they always behold the 
Father's face in glory. Mat. xviii. 10. Remember, he that will find rich 
minerals must dig deep, he that will be rich must sweat for it, he that 
will taste the kernel must crack the shell, he that will have the marrow 
must break the bone, he that will wear the garland must run the race, 
he that wiU ride in triumph must get the victory ; so he that will get 
assurance must be active and lively in duty, Prov. ii. 4-6. It is only 
fervent prayer that is effectual prayer, it is only the working prayer 
that works wonders in heaven, and that brings down wonderful assur- 
ance into the heart.^ Cold prayers shall never have any warm answers ; 
God will suit his returns to our requests ; lifeless services shall have 

' Overly, i.e. slightly, superficially. — Q. 

* The active Christian goes to heaven, alacri animo ac plena fiducia. 
' Labor omnia vincit. 

* Non amat qui non zelat — Augustine, ff-rouiairart is a significant word ; it signifies 
all manner of earnestness, seriousness, and continuance in doing. Also it signifies a 
speedy and swift putting of things in execution. 

^ Z'ioyrts signifies seething hot. 

^ James v. 16. in^you/iUn, the working prayer. 



388 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

lifeless answers ; when men are dull, God will be dumb. Elias prayed 
earnestly, or as it is in the Greek, ' He prayed in prayer,' and God 
answered him." Many there be that pray, but they do not pray in 
prayer, they are not lively and earnest with God in prayer ; and there- 
fore justice shuts out their prayers. When one desired to know what 
kind of man Basil was, there was, saith the history, presented to him 
in a dream, a pillar of fire with this motto, Talis est Basilns, Basil is 
such a one, all on a-light fire for God. Ah ! lazy, doubting Christians, 
were you all on a-light fire, in hearing, in praying, &c. ; it would not be 
long before the windows of heaven would be open, before God would 
rain down manna, before he would drop down assurance into your 
bosoms.^ 

My advice to you, lazy Christians, is this, cease complaining of the 
want of assurance, and be no more formal, slight, and superficial in 
religious services, but stir up yourselves, and put out all 3'our might 
and strength in holy actions, and you shall experimentally find that it 
will not be long before you shall have such good news from heaven, as 
will fill you with joy unspeakable, and full of glory.^ 

(8.) The eighth impediment to assurance is. Men's living in the 
neglect of some ordinance, or in the omission of some religiovs duties* 
They seek Christ in some of his ways, but not in all ; they wait upon 
him in this and that ordinance, but not in every ordinance. Are there 
not many doubting souls that wait upon God, in hearing the word of life, 
and yet neglect, and make light of waiting upon Christ, in breaking the 
bread of life ? Are there not many that are very careful daily to per- 
form family duties, and yet are very rarely found in closet services ? 
Some there be that are all ear, all for hearing ; and others there be that 
are all tongue, all for speaking and praying ; and others there be that 
are all eye, all for believing, all for searching, all for inquiring into this 
and that ; and others there be that are all hand, all for receiving the 
Lord's supper, &c. And seriously, when I consider these things, I cease 
wondering that so many want assurance, and do rather wonder that any 
obtain assurance, considering how few there be that are conscientious 
and ingenuous in waiting upon God in every way and service wherein 
he is pleased to manifest his grace and favour to poor souls. 

Well ! doubting souls, remember this, God will give assurance in one 
ordinance, when he will deny it in another, that you may seek his face 
in all. God loves as well that you should wait on him as that you should 
wrestle with him. He that will not give God the honour of attending 
him in every duty, in every ordinance, may long enough complain of 
the want of assurance, before God will give him the white stone and the 
new name, that none knows but he that hath it, Rev. ii. 17. Many of 
the precious sons of Zion have found God giving assurance in one 

' irffonv^^, T^affnv^aro, he prayed in prayer. 

' Most men have more heat in their hrains than in their hearts and services ; and 
therefore it is that they walk in darkness, that they want assurance. 

3 God shot Anastasius the emperor to death with a thunderbolt for his lukewarmness, 
eaith the historian. [Evagrius, iii. 29, tcq. ; Cedremis, pp. 354-365. — G.] 

* Omission of diet breeds diseases, and makes the life uncomfortable, yea, sometimes 
a burden to a man. So the omission of holy duties and services breeds many fears, 
doubts, and questions in the soul, about its own sincerity, about its interest in Christ, 
about its finding audience and acceptance with God ; and so makes the life of a Chri8> 
tiau very uncomfortable, yea, a burden to him. 



I 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 389 

ordinance, others have found him giving assurance in another ordinance. 
God speaks peace to some in such and such services, and comfort to 
others in such and such duties. Therefore, as you would have assur- 
ance, doubting souls, seek the Lord in every way and service, where- 
in he ia pleased to make known his glory and goodness. In hearing, 
Christ opens his box of ointments to some, and in praying and breaking 
of bread, he lets his sweet myrrh fall upon the hearts of others. Some 
have seen the glory of the Lord in the sanctuary, that have been clouded 
in their closets ; others have heard a sweet still voice in their closets, 
that have sat long trembling in the sanctuary. Remember, doubting 
souls, Moab and Ammon were banished the sanctuary to the tenth 
generation, for a mere omission, because they met not God's Israel in 
the wilderness with bread and water, Deut. xxiii. 3, 4.^ And I verily 
believe, that God doth banish, as I may say, many from his favourable 
presence, as Absalom did David, for their sinful omissions, for their non- 
attendance upon him in all his ways. Therefore, if ever you would 
have assurance, seek the Lord, not only while he may be found, but 
also in every gracious dispensation where he may be found. ' Then shall 
the joy of the Lord be your strength,' and his ' glory shall rest upon 
you.' ' The days of your mourning shall be ended,' and ' you shall lie 
down in peace, and none shall make you afraid.'^ I would earnestly 
desire you, O doubting souls, seriously to consider, that all the ways of 
Christ are ways of pleasantness ; as Solomon speaks, Prov. iii. 17, not 
only this way or that way, but every way of Christ is a way of pleasant- 
ness ; every way is strewed with roses, every way is paved with gold, 
every way is attended with comfort and refreshing. So the psalmist, 
'Thy paths drop fatness,' Ps. Ixv. 11, 12 ; not only this or that path, 
but all the paths of God drops fatness. Oh then, walk in every way, 
tread in every path of God, as you would have your souls filled with 
marrow and fatness, Ps. Ixiii. 5 ; and never forget that choice saying of 
the prophet Isaiah, * Thou meetest him that rejoiceth, and worketh 
righteousness, those that remember thee in thy ways,' Isa. Ixiv. 5.' 
They that would have God to meet with them in a way of peace and 
reconciliation, in a way of grace and favour, must remember God in all 
his ways ; not only in this or that particular way, but in every way 
wherein he is pleased to cause his glory to shine. Therefore, doubting 
souls, cease complaining, and be more conscientious and ingenuous in 
waiting upon God in all his appointments, and it will not be long night 
with you. 

(9.) The ninth impediment that keeps Christians from assurance is 
An imTYioderate love of the world} Their thoughts and hearts are so 
busied about getting the world and keeping the world, that they neither 
seek assurance as they should, nor prize assurance as they should, nor 
lament the want of assurance as they should, nor study the worth and 

• Here the proverb is most false that says, Modicum non noeet, a little hurts not. Ah I 
this or that little omission, as you call it, may expose men to a great deal of wrath, Mat. 
XXV. 41-46. They did not rob the saints, but omitted the relieving of them, which was 
their ruin. » Neh. viii. 9 ; Isa. Ix. 20 ; Levit. xxvi. 6. — G. 

^ ny33, to run and meet the soul, as the father of the prodigal ran and met him afar 
off *with bowels of love and pity. 

* Multi a mando res noxias sunt miseri, habendo miseriores, many are miserable by loving 
hurtful things, but are more miserable by having them. 



390 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

excellency of assurance as they should; and therefore it is no wonder, 
that such are without assurance. As it is very hard for a rich man to 
enter into heaven, Mat. xix. 23, 2-4, so it is very hard for a worldly 
Christian to get assurance of heaven. The ' thick clay,' Hab. ii. 6, of 
this world doth so affect him, and take him, so satisfy him, and sink 
him, that he is not able to pursue after assurance, with that life and 
love, with that fervency and frequency, as those must do that will 
obtain it. It is said. Gen. xiil 2, 'That Abraham was very rich in 
cattle, in silver, and in gold ; according to the Hebrew '?^^, Abraham 
was very heavy; to shew, saith one, that riches are a heavy burden, 
and a hindrance many times to a Christian's comfort and confidence, 
to his happiness and assurance.^ Solomon got more hurt by his wealth, 
than he got good by his wisdom.^ Such a fire rose out of his worldly 
enjoyments, as did even consume and bum up his choicest spirits and 
his noblest virtues ; under all his royal robes, he had but a thread-bare 
soul. Sicily, saith one, is so full of sweet flowers, that dogs cannot 
hunt there, the scent of the sweet flowers diverteth their smell.^ And 
ah ! what doth all the sweet delights and contents of this world, but 
make men lose the scent of heaven, but divert men from hunting 
after assurance, and from running after Christ, in the sweetness of his 
ointments.* 

The creature is all shadow, and vanity of vanities. Vanity is the 
very quintessence of the creature, and all that can possibly be ex- 
tracted out of it. It is Jilia noctis, like Jonah's gourd. A man may 
sil under its shadow for a while, but it soon decays and dies. ' Why 
shouldst thou set thy heart upon that which is not ? ' Prov. xxiii. 5. 
Were ever riches true to them that tnisted them? As the bird hops 
from twig to twig, so doth riches hop from man to man, &c. Worldly 
Christians, cease complaining of the want of assurance, and sincerely 
humble and abase your souls before the Lord; for that you have so 
eagerly pursued after lying vanities; for that you have in so great a 
measure forsaken the fountain of living water ; for that with Martha you 
have been busied about many things, when Christ and assurance, the 
two things necessary, have been so much neglected and disregarded by 
you. Get this world, this moon, under your feet; take no rest till you 
have broken through this silken net, till you have got off' these golden 
fetters.*^ A heart that is full of the world, is a heart full of wants. 
Ah ! the joy, the peace, the comfort, the confidence, the assurance, that 
such hearts wants. The stars which have least circuit, are nearest the 
pole; and men whose hearts are least entangled with the world, are 
always nearest to God, and to the assurance of his favour. Worldly 
Christians, remember this, you and the world must part, or else assur- 
ance and your souls will never meet. When a worldly Christian is 
saved, he is saved as by fire; and before ever he shall be assured of 

^ Divitibus ideo pietat deest, quia nihil deest, rich men's wealth proves an hindrance to 
their happiness. 

* Divitio) corporales pauperiatis plena sunt. — Augustine. . . . Earthly riches are full of 
poverty. ^ Diodonts Siculus. The same saith Aristotle. 

* Quam tordet mihi terra cum ccelum intueor f — Adrian. 

* Hi terrain amas terra et ; si Deum amas, quid vis ul dicam, Deuses. — Augustine. . . . 
If thou lovest the earth, thou art earthly ; but if thou lovest God, thou shalt have whatever 
thou wilt ask of Ood. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 391 

his salvation, he must cry out, OTnves humancB consolationes, aunt 
desolationes, all human consolations are but desolations. God will not 
give the sweetmeats of heaven, to those that are gorged and surfeited 
with the delicates of the earth. The cock upon the dunghill prefers a 
barley-corn above the choicest pearl ; such dunghill Christians that 
prefer a little barley-corn above this pearl of price, assurance; that, 
with Esau, prefer a morsel of meat before this blessing of blessings ; that 
prefer Paris above Paradise,' God's coin above his countenance, may at 
last with Esau seek, and seek with tears, this heavenly jewel assurance, 
and yet, as he, be rejected and repulsed, Heb. xii. 16, 17.' 

(10.) The tenth impediment that keeps Christians from assurance, 
is, The secret cherishing and running out of their hearts to sonfie 
bosom, darling sin. It is dark night with the soul, when the soul will 
cast a propitious eye upon this or that bosom sin, and secretly say, 
*Is it not a little one, and my soul shall live V Gen. xix. 20, though 
God and conscience hath formerly checked and whipped the soul for 
so doing. Ah ! how many be there that dally and play with sin, even 
after they have put up many prayers and complaints against sin, and 
after they have lamented and bitterly mourned over their sins. Many 
there be that complain of their deadness, barrenness, frowardness, con- 
ceitedness, censoriousness, and other baseness ; and yet are ready at 
every turn to gratify, if not to justify, those very sins that they com- 
plain against. No wonder that such want assurance. After the 
Israehtes had ate manna in the wilderness, and drunk ' water out of 
the rock,' after God had been to them a ' cloud by day, and a pillar of 
fire by night,' after he had led them by the arms, and kept them as the 
apple of his eye, after he had made them spectators of his wonders, 
they hankered after * the flesh-pots of Egypt;' so when, after God hath 
given a man a new name and a white stone, after he hath made a report 
of his love to the soul, after he hath taken a man up into paradise, after 
he hath set a man upon his knee, and carried him in his bosom, after 
he bath spoke peace and pardon to the soul, Ps. Ixxxv. 8, for the soul 
to return to folly, oh ! this cannot but prove a woful hindrance to 
assurance, this will provoke God to change his countenance, and to 
carry it not as a friend, but as an enemy. When love is abused, 
justice takes up the iron rod. God will strike hard and home, when 
men kick against the bowels of mercy. God hath made an everlasting 
separation betwixt sin and peace, betwixt sin and joy, and betwixt sin 
and assurance. God will be out with that man, that is in with his sin. 
If sin and the soul be one, God and the soul must needs be two. He 
that is resolved to dally with any sin, he must resolve to live in many 
fears. Never forget this; he that savoureth any one sin, though he 
foregoeth many, doth but as Benadab, recover of one -disease, and die of 
another ; ^ yea, he takes pains to plunge himself into two hells, a hell 
here, and a hell hereafter. Therefore, as ever thou would st have assu- 
rance, offer up thy Isaac, part with thy Benjamin, pull out thy right 

1 Probably the allusion is to the saying of the Duke of Bourbon : ' Give me but a 
palace in Paris, and I care not for a place in paradise.' See Epistle Dedicatory to * An 
Ark for all God's Noahs.' — G. 

• {Mundus cadaver est, et petenUs eum sunt eanes, is an Arabic proverb ; that is, the 
world is a carcase, and those that hunt after it are dogs. This proverb makes a great 
many of our glistering professors to be but dogs. ^ Query, Benhadad ? — G. 



392 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

eye, cut off thy right hand ; otherwise assurance and joy will not be thy 
portion. 

Now that I may remove this impediment, which is of such dangerous 
consequence to Christians' souls, and keep Christians for ever from 
smiling upon any bosom sin, I shall first lay down a few considerations 
to provoke them to dally and play no more with sin, but to put off 
that sin that does so easily beset them, that sticks so close unto them, 
Heb. xii. 1 (ivvspieraTov)-^ and then in the second place, I shall propound 
some means that may contribute to the bringing under of bosom sins, 
that so it may be no longer night with the soul. 

The first irnotive to provoke you to put out all your strength and 
might against bosom sins, that you are so apt to play withal, is seriously 
to consider, that this ivill be a strong and choice demonstration and 
evidence of the sincerity and uprightness of your hearts: Ps. xviii. 23, 
' I was also upright with him,^ and I kept myself from mine iniquity.* 
I kept a strict and diligent watch upon that particular sin that I found 
myself most inclined unto. And this, says David, is a clear evidence to 
me of the uprightness of my heart with God. The truth is, there is no 
hypocrite in the world but doth dandle and dally with some bosom sin 
or other ; and though at times, and upon carnal accounts, they seem to 
be very zealous against this and that sin, yet at the very same time 
their hearts stand strongly and affectionately engaged to some bosom 
sin, as might be shewed in Saul, Judas, and Herod, Job xx. 12, 13. 
Therefore, as ever you would have a sure argument of your uprightness, 
trample upon your Delilahs. This very evidence of thy uprightness 
may yield thee more comfort and refreshing in a day of trouble and 
darkness, than for the present thou dost apprehend, or hast faith to 
believe. Some there be that can tell thee, that the joy of the bride- 
groom, nor the joy of the harvest, is not to be compared to that joy that 
arises in the soul from the sense and evidence of a man's own upright- 
ness, 2 Cor. i. 12. Sincerity is the very queen of virtues ; she holds the 
throne, and will be sure to keep it. Yea, the very sight of it in the soul 
makes a man sit cheerful and thankful, Noah-like, in the midst of all 
tempests and storms. Look, as the playing with a bosom sin speaks 
out hypocrisy, so the mortifying of a bosom sin speaks out sincerity. 

The second motive to provoke doubting souls to trample upon their 
bosom sins, is solemnly to consider, that the conquest of their darling 
sins will render the conquests of other sins easy. 

When Goliah was slain, the rest of the Philistines fled, 1 Sam. xviL 
51, 52. When a general in an army is cut off, the common soldiers are 
easily routed and destroyed. Ah ! complaining, doubting souls, did you 
but take the courage and resolution to fall with all your might and 
spiritual strength upon those particular sins that stick so close unto you, 
and that do so easily captivate you, you would find, that the great 
mountains that are before you would soon be made a plain, Zech. iv. 7. 
Other sins will not be long-lived, when justice is done upon your bosom 
sins. Thrust but a dart through the heart of Absalom, and a complete 
conquest will folio w,^ 2 Sam. xviii. 14. 

' "iDy, gnimmo, with him. 

* The Lacedaemonians, in all battles, resolved to go home conquerors, or to die con- 
quered. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 393 

The third motive to provoke you to crucify your bosom sins, be they 
what they will, is, seriously to consider the very great damage that 
your souls have already sustained by your bosom sins. 

Saul, by casting an amorous eye upon Agag, lost his crown and king- 
dom ; Samson, by dallying with his Delilah, lost his strength, sight, 
hght, liberty, and life. But what are these losses to thy loss of spiritual 
strength, to thy loss of communion with God, to thy loss of the Spirit 
of light, life, liberty, and glory ; to thy loss of joy unspeakable, and 
peace that passes all understanding ; and to thy loss of those fresh and 
sparkling hopes of glory that were once sparkling in thy breast ?^ 

Mark Antony was so far bewitched with his Cleopatra, that in the 
heat of the battle of Actium, when the empire of the world, his life, 
and all lay at stake, that he fled from Augustus to pursue her, to the 
ruin and loss of all.^ So many there are bewitched to some Cleopatra, 
to some darling sin or other, that they pursue the enjoyment of them 
to the loss of God, Christ, heaven, and their souls for ever. 

Ah ! Christians, that the sense of what you have formerly lost, and of 
what you daily lose by your playing witli sin, might provoke you to 
set upon some effectual course for the mortifying of them ! 

It was a blasphemous speech of Henry the Second, who said, when 
Mentz, his city, was taken, ' That he should never love God any more, 
who suffered a city so dear to him to be taken from him.' But it will 
be a blessed and happy thing for you, in uprightness to say. Oh, we wiU 
never love, we will never favour, we will never dally with our bosom 
sins more ; for they have damnified us in our spiritual enjoyments, and 
in our spiritual returns from heaven. Shall the sense of outward losses 
by this and that instrument, work us out of love with them ? And shall 
not the sense of our spiritual losse.=? by bosom sins, work us much more 
out with them. Ah, Lord ! of what iron mettle is that heart that can 
look upon those sad losses that hath attended playing with bosom sins, 
and yet still dally with those Delilahs 1^ 

The fourth Tnotive to provoke you to be the death of your darling 
sins, is, solemnly to consider, that the conquest and effectual mortify- 
ing of one bosom sin, will yield a Christian more glorious joy, com- 
fort, and peace, than ever he hath found in the gratifying and com- 
miMing of all other sins* The pleasure and sweetness that follows 
victory over sin, is a thousand times beyond that seeming sweetness 
that is in the gratifying of sin. The joy that attends the subduing of 
sin is a noble joy, a pure joy, a peculiar joy, an increasing joy, and a 
lasting joy ; but that joy that attends the committing of sin is an ig- 
noble joy, a corrupt joy, a decreasing joy, a dying joy. The truth is, 
were there the least real joy in sin, there could be no perfect hell, 
where men shall most perfectly sin, and be most perfectly tormented 
with their sin. 

I Some there be that had rather lose their hearts than their conceits ; others had 
rather lose their souls than their sins : these shall be chronicled in hell for fools and 
bedlams. 

» Dion. Cassius, lib. xii. leq., and xxxi. seq. ; and Antony and Cleopatra of Shake- 
speare, iii. 7. — G. 

3 Nay, how many in these days are mad against public instruments for seeming losses? 

*<The heathens, as many professors now, had not the right art of mortifying sin. 
Sapientia eornm pkrumgne abseondit vitia, non abscindit, all their wisdom was to hide a 
lost, not to quench it ; therefore their joy was like the crackling of thorns under a pot. 



394 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

Ah ! doubting Christians, as ever you would have good days, as ever 
you would walk in the light, as ever you would, like the angels, have 
always harps in your hands, and hallelujahs in your mouths, be rest- 
less, till in the spirit and power of Jesus, you have brought under the 
sin that sticks so close unto you. Remember this, nothing below the 
conquest of bosom sins can make a jubilee in the heart. It is not a 
man's whining and complaining over sin, but his mortifying of sin, that 
will make his life a paradise of pleasure. 

If, notwithstanding all that hath been said, you are still resolved to 
dally with sin, then you must resolve to live as a stranger to God, and 
as a stranger to assurance and peace ; you must expect sad trials with- 
out, and sore troubles within ; you must expect to find Satan playing 
his part both as a lion and as a serpent, both as a devil and as an angel 
of light. You must dxpect either no news from heaven, or but bad news 
from heaven ; and you must expect that conscience will play the part 
both of a scolding wife and of a lion that wants his prey ;' and this shall be 
your just reward for playing with sin. If you like the reward, then take 
your course, and dally with sin still; if otherwise, then sacrificeyour Isaac.'' 

Tlie fifth motive to work you to trample upon your bosom sins is, 
wisely to consider, that it is your duty and glory to do that every 
day, that you would willingly do upon a dying day. Ah ! how would 
you live and love upon a dying day ? How would you admire God, 
rest upon God, delight in God, long for God, and walk with God upon 
a dying day ? How would you hate, loathe, and abhor your bosom sins 
upon a dying day ? How would you complain of your bosom sins, and 
pray against your bosom sins, and mourn over your bosom sins, and 
watch against your bosom sins, and fly from all occasions that should 
tend to draw you to close with your bosom sins upon a dying day ?^ 

Ah! doubting souls, would you not for all the world gratify your bosom 
sins upon a dying day, and wiU you gratify them on other days, which, 
for anything you know to the contrary, may prove your dying day ? 
Thrice happy is that soul that labours with all his might to do that at 
first that he would fain do at last ; that doth that on every day, that 
he would give a thousand worlds to do on a dying day. No way to 
assurance like this ; no way to joy and comfort like this ; no way to 
rest and peace like this ; no way to the kingdom, to the crown, like this. 

I earnestly beseech you, trembling souls, when you find your spirits 
running out to bosom sins, that you would lay your hands upon your 
hearts, and thus expostulate the case : O our souls, would you thus 
dally and play with sin upon a dying day ? would you thus stroke and 
hug sin upon a dying day ? would you not rather shew all the dislike 
and hatred that is imaginable against it ? would you not tremble at sin 
more than at hell ? and abhor the very occasions of sin more than the 
most venomous serpent in all the world ? would you not rather suffer the 

1 Conscience is index, judex,, vindex. 

' The leper under the law was still to keep his hair shaven, Lev. xiv. 6. So shcnld 
we be still a-cutting and shaving, that though the roots of sin remain, yet they may not 
grow and sprout. 

' Some heathens and many profane persons have earnestly desired that they had done 
that at first that they would fain have done at last, but could not. The worst would be 
good, and do good at last ; but at last they will be found the best and wisest, [who] have 
made it their business to do that every day that every one would do upon a dying day. 



EOM. VIII. 32-34] HEAVEN ON EARTH. 395 

worst and greatest punishments, than to smile upon a darling sin upon 
a dpng day ? Yes ; oh would you fain do this upon a dying day ? Why 
not then every day ? Why not then every day, O our souls ? 

The sixth motive to provoke you to fall with all your might upon 
bosom sins is, seriously to consider, that till this be done, fears and 
doubts will still hau7it the soul ; the soul will still be fearing that 
surely all is naught, and that that work that is wrought upon it is not 
a real but a counterfeit work ; that it is not a peculiar and special 
work, but a coTnmon work, that a man may have and perish. Till 
this be done, the soul can never be able to see grace in his own native 
beauty and glory.' The hugging of sin in a corner, will raise such a 
dust in the soul, that it cannot be able to see these pearls of glory 
sparkling and shining. Till this be done, doubting souls, you will be 
but babes, and shrubs,^ and dwarfs in Christianity. The hankering of 
the soul after sin, is the casting of water upon the Spirit ; it is the lam- 
ing of grace, it is the clipping the wings of faith and prayer ; so that 
the soul can neither be confident, nor fervent, frequent nor constant in 
religious services; so that it will unavoidably follow, such souls wiU be 
like Pharaoh's lean kine, poor and starveling.^ Look, as many men are 
kept low in their outward estates, by having a back door to some He- 
rodians ;* so many doubting souls are kept low in spirituals, by their 
hankering after some particular sins. 

Kemember, Christians, sin is the soul's sickness, the soul's weakness. 
If the body be weak and diseased, it grows not. Sin is poison that 
turns all nourishment into corruption, and so hinders the growth of the 
soul in grace and holiness. Ah ! Christians, as ever you would be rid 
of your fears and doubts, as ever you would see the beauty and glory of 
grace, as ever you would be eminent and excellent in grace and hoHness, 
see that effectual justice be done upon that Achan, that Jonah, that 
darling sin, that hath occasioned storms within and tempests without. 

It was a grievous vexation to King Lysimachus, that his staying to 
drink one draught of water lost him his kingdom. Ah ! Christians, it 
will grievously vex you, when you come to yourselves, and when you 
come to taste of the admirable pleasure that attends the conquest of 
sin, to consider that your hankering after this or that particular sin, 
hath been the loss of that joy and comfort, that peace and assurance, 
that is infinitely more worth than all the kingdoms of the world.* 

Quest. But you may say to me, Oh we would fain have our bosom- 
sins subdued, we desire above all that they may be effectually mortified. 
These sons of Zeruiah we would have slain to choose ; but what course 
must we take to bring under our darling sins, to get off our golden 
fetters, to get out of these silken snares ? 

To this question I shall give these answers : 

The first means. If ever thou wouldst have mastery over this or that 

^ One flaw in a diamond doth not only take away the beauty, glory, and price of it, 
but it puts men to question whether it be a diamond. Pa. xl. 12, mSv, I am not able 
to see ; sin had put out David's eyes. * Qu. ' scrubs' ? as before, p. 271. — O. 

3 Gideon had seventy sons, and but one bastard ; and yet that one bastard destroyed 
all the rest. You may easily apply it. [Judges viii. 30, seq. — G ] 

* Qu. Herodiases? Cf. Mat. xiv. 3.-6. 

■^ If there be but one crack in the honey-glass, there the wasp will be buzzing ; and 
where there is but some one sin favoured, there Satan will be tempting and upbraiding. 



396 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [RoM. VIII. 32-.34). 

bo.som sin, then engage all thy 'power and might against thy bosom 
sin, draw up thy spiritual forces, and engage them wholly against 
the sin that doth so easily beset thee. As the king of Syria said to his 
captains, * Fight neither with small nor great, save only with the king 
of Israel,' 2 Chron. xviii. 30 ; so say I, your wisdom and your work, O 
doubting souls, liethnot in skirmishing with this or that sin, but in com- 
ing up to a close sharp fight with the king of Israel, with that darling 
sin that hath a kingly interest in you, and a kingly power over you. 

Constantine the Great his symbol w^as, Immedicabile vulniis ense 
rescindendum est, when there is no hope of curing, men must fall 
a-cutting. Believe it, souls, you must fall n-cutting your bosom sins in 
pieces by the sword of the Spirit, as Samuel cut Agag in pieces in Gilgal 
before the Lord, or else you will never obtain a perfect cure, 1 Sam. 
XV. 33. Slight skirmishes will not do it ; you must pursue your bosom 
sins to the death, or they will be the death of your souls. 

The second means to bring under a bosom sin, is, to labour to he most 
eTTiinent a7id excellent in that particular grace that is most opposite to 
a Tnan's bosom sin.^ As it is a Christian's glory to be eminent in every 
grace, so it is a Christian's special duty to excel in that particular grace 
that is most contrary to his darling sins. Is it pride, is it the world, is it 
hypocrisy, &c., that is thy bosom sin, that is the chief favourite in thy 
soul ? Oh then, labour above all to be clothed with humility, to abound 
in heavenly-mindedness, to transcend in sincerity, &c., I know no surer, 
no choicer, no sweeter way, effectually to crucify a bosom sin, than this. 
He that comes up to this counsel, will not be long held in golden fetters, 
it will not be long before such a soul cries out. Victory, victory! 

The third means to help us to trample upon bosom sins, is, to look 
upon bosom sins now, as they will appear to us at last ; to look upon 
them in the time of health, as they will appear to us in times of sick- 
ness ; to look upon them in the time of our life, as they will appear 
to us in the day of our death. Ah ! souls, of all unpardoned sins, your 
bosom sins will be presented by God, conscience, and Satan at last, as 
the most filthy and ugly, as the most terrible and dreadful. Your 
bosom sins at last will appear to be those monsters, those fiends of hell 
that have most provoked God against you, that have shut up Christ's 
bowels of love and compassion from you, that have armed conscience 
against you, that have barred the gates of glory against you, that have 
prepared the hottest place in hell for you, and that have given Satan 
the greatest advantage eternally to triumph over you.'^ Ah ! souls, at 
last your bosom sins will more press and oppress you, more sad and sink 
you, more terrify and amaze you, than all your other transgressions. 
Those sins that seem most sweet in life, will prove most bitter in death. 
Job XX. 1 1-29. Those pleasant morsels will prove thy greatest hell, 
when there is but a short step between thy soul and eternity. Ah ! 
Christians, never look upon bosom sins, but with that eye which within 
a few hours you must behold them ; and this, you will find by expe- 
rience, will be a singular means to bring under your bosom sins. 

' As when one bucket of a well goes up, the other goes down ; as when one of the two 
laurels in Rome flourishes, the other withers ; so when grace gets up, sin goes down ; 
when grace flourishes, sin withers. 

' Many there be that have found these things hj woful experience. Woe, woe, to 
that soul that shall put it to the trial. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 397 

The fourth imeans to subdue bosom sins is, to apply yourselves to 
extraordinary means, as fasting and prayer, &c. Ordinary physic 
will not remove extraordinary distempers, nor ordinary duties will not 
remove bosom sins, who, by long and familiar acquaintance with the 
soul, are exceedingly strengthened and advantaged. You read of some 
devils in the Gospel that could not be cast out but by prayer and fast- 
ing, Mat. xvii. 14-22. So bosom sins are those white devils that will not, 
that cannot be cast out but by fervent and constant prayer, joined with 
fasting and humiliation. Souls that are serious and conscientious in 
observing of this rule will find such a divine power to attend their en- 
deavours as will give them to ' lead captivity captive,' Eph, iv. 8, and to 
triumph over those white devils within, as Christ triumphed over prin- 
cipalities and powers upon the cross. Col. ii. 14, 15. 

The fifth mean^. As you would have victory over bosom sins, keep 
off from all those occasions that tend to lead thee to the gratifying 
of them. He that shuns not the occasions of sin, tempts two at once, 
Satan and his own heart ; he tempts Satan to tempt him to taste of 
forbidden fruit, and he tempts his own heart to feed upon forbidden 
fruit. ' Abstain from all appearance of evil,' 1 Thes, v. 22 ; ' hate the 
garment spotted by the flesh,' Jude 23. Whatever can-ies with it an 
ill show or shadow, favour or suspicion, that abstain from, that you may 
neither wound God nor the gospel, your own consciences nor others. If 
there be any fuel to feed thy bosom sin in thy house, remove it ; or be- 
fore thine eye, remove it ; or in thy hand, remove it, put it far away. 
Thy soul cannot be safe, it cannot be secure, so long as the occasions of 
sin are thy companions. Wouldst thou have a clear evidence of the 
truth of thy grace, then shun the occasions of sin; wouldst thou imitate 
the choicest saints, then shun the occasions of sin; wouldst thou stand 
in shaking times, then keep off from the occasions of sin ; wouldst thou 
keep always peace with God, and peace with conscience, then keep off 
from the occasions of sin ; wouldst thou frustrate Satan's greatest de- 
signs, and countermine him in his deepest plots, then keep off from the 
occasions of sin ; wouldst thou keep thy bones from breaking, and 
thy heart from bleeding, then keep off from the occasions of sin ; 
wouldst thou keep down fears and doubts, and keep up faith and hope, 
then keep off from the occasions of sin ; wouldst thou have assurance 
in life, and joy and peace in death, then keep off from the occasions 
of sin. Do this, and you do all ; if you do not this, you do nothing 
at all.^ 

And thus I have done with the impediments that hinder souls from 
assurance, as also with the moans to remove those impediments. 



CHAPTER IV. 

Containing several rnotives to provoke Christians to he restless till 
they have obtained a well-grounded assurance of their eternal 
happiness and blessedness. 

*(1.) The first motive. Now, the first motive that I shall lay down to 
^ Gen. zxsiz. 10 ; Job xzxi. 1 ; Ps. xxvi. 4-6. 



S98 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

provoke you to get a well-grounded assurance, is, solemnly to consider, 
That many are now dropped into hell that have formerly presumed 
of their going to heaven : as those that came bouncing at heaven- 
gate, crying out, ' Lord, Lord, open to us, for we have prophesied in thy 
name, and in thy name have cast out devils, and in thy name have done 
many wonderful works ;' and yet that direful and dreadful sentence is 
passed upon them, ' Depart from me, ye workers of iniquities,' Mat. vii. 
22, 26, 27/ 

The foolish virgins were in a golden dream that they were as happy 
as the best, and yet, when they were awakened, they found the bride- 
groom entered into his glory, and the door of mercy shut against them. 
Mat. XXV. 10-12.^ Men are naturally prone to flatter themselves that 
their sins are not sins, when indeed they be ; and that they are but 
small sins, when they are great and grievous, Isa. xl. 27, Deut. xxix. 19; 
and they are apt to flatter themselves that they have grace when they 
have none ; and that their grace is true, when it is but counterfeit ; and 
that their condition is not so bad as others, when it is worse ; and, with 
Agag, that the bitterness of death is past, when God hath his sword in 
his hand ready to execute the vengeance written.^ 

I have read of a madman at Athens that laid claim to every rich ship 
that came into the harbour, whenas he was poor, and had no part in 
any. Ah ! this age is full of such mad souls, that lay claim to God and 
Christ, and the promises and gospel privileges, and all the glory of 
another world, when they are poor, and blind, and miserable, and 
wretched, and naked, when they are Christless and graceless, &c. Ah, 
Christians ! doth it not therefore stand you much upon to labour for a 
well-grounded assurance, that so you may not miscarry to all eternity, 
but may at last be found worthy to receive a crown of glory and to 
enter into your Master's joy, which is a joy too great and too glorious 
to enter into you, and therefore you must enter into it. Mat. xxv. 21, 23. 
(2.) The second motive to provoke Christians to get a well-grounded 
assurance is this, consider. That there he a great many soul-flatterers, 
soul-deceivers, and soul-cheaters in the world. The devil hath put 
his angelical robes upon many of his chief factors,* that they may the 
more easily and the more effectually deceive and delude the souls of 
men. This age affords many sad testimonies of this.^ Ah ! v/hat mul- 
titudes be there, that to some blear eyes appear as angels of light, and 
yet in their principles and practices are but servants to the prince of 
darkness, labouring with all their might to make proselytes for hell. 
Mat. xxiii. 15, and to draw men to those wild notions, opinions, and 
conceits that will leave them short of heaven, yea, bring them down to 
the hottest, darkest, and lowest place in hell, if God do not by a miracle 
prevent it. Therefore you had need look about you, and see that you 
get a well-grounded assurance, and suffer not Satan to put a cheat upon 
your immortal souls. Christ hath foretold us, ' That in the last days 
there shall arise false Christs, and false prophets, that shall say, Lo, 

' So, few in the old world feared an eternal miscarriage. 

* So were the Jews that cried out, ' The temple of the Lord ! the temple of the Lord !' 

3 Prov. XXX. 12 ; Rev. iii. 17, 18 ; Micah iii. 11. I judge as in this world, so in hell : 
the most self-flattering souls will be the most miserable souls. ^ ' Agents.' — G. 

^ Leo the emperor used to say, Occulti inimici pessimi, a close enemy is far worse than 
an open. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on eaeth. 399 

here is Christ, and lo, there is Christ/ Mat. xxiv. 23, 24. And verily 
this scripture is this day fulfilled in your ears. Ah, how many blas- 
phemous wretches have there been in these days, that have asserted 
themselves to be the very Christ ! And it is to me no little miracle, 
that the very earth hath not opened her mouth and swallowed up such 
monsters, such firebrands of helL 

The apostle tells you of some that * lie in wait to deceive, by such 
sleights' as cheaters and false gamesters use at dice ; he tells you of 
cunning crafty men that do diligently watch all advantages to work, 
draw, and win weak and unstable souls to those opinions, principles, 
and practices, that tend to droAvn them in everlasting perdition.' 
Satan's disciples and agents are notable method-mongers [/Ji'Sdodeix 
crXav?]?], they have a method of deceiving, they are doctors in all the 
arts of cozenage, and they will leave no means unattempted whereby 
they may draw men to buUd upon hay and stubble, upon this opinion and 
that notion, &c., that so men and their works may bum for ever to- 
gether, 1 Cor. iii. 15. 

It is reported of king Canutus, that he promised to make him the 
highest man in England, who should kill king Edmund Ironside, his 
co-rival; which, when one had performed, and expected his rewarc^, 
he commanded him to be hung on the highest tower in London. So 
Satan and his factors, they promise poor souls that such and such 
opinions, and notions, &c., will thus and thus advantage them, and ad- 
vance them; but in the close, poor souls shaU find the promised crown 
turned into a halter, the promised comfort turned into a torment, the 
promised glory turned into ignominy, the promised exaltation turned 
into desolation, the promised heaven turned into a hell. This age is 
full of soul-flatterers, of soul-undoers, who, like evil chirurgeons, skin 
over the wound, but kill the patient. Flattery undid Ahab, and Herod, 
and Nero, and Alexander.^ 

Those flatterers that told Dionysius, that his spittle was as sweet as 
honey, undid him ; and those flatterers that told Cassar, that his 
freckles in his face were like the stars in the firmament, ruined him. 
And ah! how many joung and old in these days have been lost and un- 
done by those soul flatterers, that lie in wait to ensnare and deceive the 
souls of men.' Oh that this very consideration might be set home by 
the hand of the Spirit, with that life and power upon your souls, as 
effectually to stir and provoke you to get a well-grounded assurance of 
your happiness and blessedness, that so you may stand fast, like the 
house built upon the rock, in the midst of all tempests and storms, that 
nothing may unsettle you, nor disquiet you, and that none may take 
away your crown, Mat. vii. 24, 25, Rev. iii. 11. 

(3.) The third motive to stir you up to get a well-grounded assurance is 
this, consider, That a weU-grouTided assurance of your happiness and 
blessedness will ea^e you, and free you of a threefold burden. It will 
free you, 

1. From a burden of cares. 

^ Eph. iv. 14. Kujiiix siojnifies cogging with a die, *aiav^yi». 

* Valerian's word waa, Non acerba sed blanda, not bitter, but flattering words, do all 
the mischief. This many have found true by woful experience. 

' Anastasius his motto was, Mellitum venenum blanda oratio, smooth talk often proves 
sweet poison. Many in these days have found it so. [Cf. references, ante. — G,] 



400 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

2. From a burden of fears. 

3. From a burden of doubts. 

Now the burden of cares, ah Christians ! causes thee to sit down 
sighing and groaning ; ah ! how doth the cares of getting this and that, 
and the cares of keeping this and that worldly content, disturb and 
distract, vex and rack the souls of men that live under the power of 
carking cares, Mat. xiii. 22. Oh, but now assurance of better things 
makes the soul sing care away, as that martyr said, ' My soul is turned 
to her rest ; I have taken a sweet nap in Christ's lap, and therefore I 
will now sing away care, and will be careless according to my name.'' 
Assurance of a kingdom, of a crown, is a fire that burns up all those 
cares that ordinarily fill the head and distract the heart. There is no 
way to get off the burden of cares but by getting assurance. 

Again, assurance will free you from the burden of fears, as well as 
from the burden of cares.^ Now, your hearts are filled with fears of 
possessing the creature, with fears of wanting the creature, with fears 
of losing the creature, &c. And these fears make men turn, like the 
chameleon, into all colours, foims, and fashions, yea, they make their 
lives a hell. Oh, but now assurance will scatter all these fears, as the 
sun doth the clouds ; it will extinguish these fears, as the sun doth the 
fire. Assurance made David divinely fearless, and divinely careless : 
' Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will 
fear no evil ; for thou art with me, thy rod and thy staff they comfort 
me,' Ps. xxiii. 3. Ah ! how full of fears and perplexities was Hagar, till 
the Lord opened her eyes to see the well of water that was near her, 
Gen. xxi. 16. So the soul will be full of fears and perplexities till it 
comes to see assurance, to enjoy assurance. Christians, when all is said 
that can be, this will be found at last a most certain truth, that there 
is no way to be effectually rid of your fears, but by obtaining a well- 
grounded assurance of your happiness and blessedness. 

Again, assurance wiU rid you of your burden of doubts.' Now you 
are still a-doubting. Sometimes you doubt whether that you are a 
thorough Christian, and not an Agrippa, an almost Christian, an half 
Christian, as most professors are. Sometimes you doubt of your son- 
ship, and that leads you to doubt of your heirship. Sometimes you 
doubt of your acquaintance with God, and that leads you to doubt of 
your access to God, and acceptance with God. Sometimes you doubt 
of your union with God, and those doubts lead you to doubt of the truth 
of your communion with God, &c. The truth is, your whole life is a 
life of doubting, and so it will be, till you reach to a well-grounded 
assurance. 

Though the two disciples had Christ for their companion, yet their 
hearts were full of fears and doubts, whilst their eyes were held that 
they should not know him, Luke xxiv. 14, 15, &c. Till a Christian's 

* John Careless, in a letter to Mr Philpot. Acts et Mon., folio, 1743. [Foxe, by 
Townsend, viii. pp. 171-201 ; and Clarke, as before, pp. 441, 473.— G.") 

* And men are apt to make elephants of flies, and giants of pigmies. Till men reach 
assurance, they will still create fears rather than want them. 

' Remember, Christians, (1.) that doubts are bred and fed by ignorance and unbelief, 
and therefore are siiiful ; (2.) that they rob the soul of all joy, comfort, and content ; 
(8.) they render men babes in Christianity ; (4.) they throw reproach upon God, Christ, 
and the promises ; (5.) they give Satan the greatest advantage against us. 



^1 



KOM. VIII. 32-34-.] HEAVEN ON EAETH. 401 

eyes be open to see his assurance, his heart will be full of doubts and 
perplexities. Though Mary Magdalene was very near to Christ, yet she 
stands sighing, mourning, and complaining that they had stolen away 
her Lord, because she did not see him, John xx. 13-16. Christians! 
though you may be very near and dear to Christ, yet till you come to 
see your assurance, you will spend your days in doubting, mourning, 
and complaining. The sum of all is this, as you would be rid of your 
burden of cares, your burden of fears, and your burden of doubts, get 
a well-grounded assurance of your happiness and blessedness ; but if 
you are in love with your burdens, then neglect but the making of your 
calling and election sure, and you shall certainly make sure your bur- 
dens ; they shall rise with you, and walk with you, and lie down with 
you, till they make your lives a hell. 

(4.) The fourth motive to provoke you to labour after a well-grounded 
assurance is, To consider that Satan will labour with all his art and 
craft, with all his power and might, to keep you from attaining a 
well-grounded assurance of your happiness and blessedness. Such is 
Satan's envy and enmity against a Christian's joy and comfort, that he 
cannot but act to the utmost of his line to keep poor souls in doubts 
and darkness.^ Satan knows that assurance is a pearl of that price that 
will make the soul liappy for ever ; he knows that assurance makes a 
Christian's wilderness to be a paradise ; he knows that assurance begets 
in Christians the most noble and generous spirits ; he knows that assur- 
ance is that which will make men strong to do exploits, to shake his 
tottering kingdom about his ears; and therefore he is very studious and 
industrious to keep souls off from assurance, as he was to cast Adam out 
of paradise. 

It is no wonder that Satan, who envied the first seeds of grace that 
divine love sowed in thy soul, that he should envy the increase of thy 
grace, yea, thy assurance, which is the top and royalty of grace. When 
thou wast a babe, Satan cast water upon thy smoking flax, that it might 
not flame forth into assurance ; and now thou art grown up to some 
more maturity, he is raised in his enmity, so that he cannot but put out 
his power and policy to keep thee from assurance of felicity and glory. 
Satan envies thy candle-light, thy torch-light, thy star-light, how much 
more that the sun should shine upon thee ! Satan envies thy eating of 
the crumbs of mercy under the table, how much more that, as a child, 
thou shouldst sit at Wisdom's table, and eat and drink abundantly of 
Wisdom's delicates ! Satan envies thy feeding on husks among the 
swine, how much more that thou shouldst eat of the fatted calf! Satan 
envies thy sitting with Mordecai at the king's gate, how much more 
that thou shouldst wear the king's robes I Satan envies thy tasting of 
the least drop of comfort, how much more thy swimming in those plea- 
sures that be at God's right hand for evermore ! He envies thy sitting 
upon God's knee, how much more, then, thy lying in his bosom ! He 
envies thy being admitted into his service, how much more that thou 
shouldst be of his court and council ! 

* It is said of Marcellus, the Roman general, that he could not be quiet, Nee victor, 
nee victus, neither conquered, nor conqueror. Satan's envy is such against the joy and 
coraSort of the saints, that lie cannot rest, nor cease from making use of all his wiles, 
whereby poor souls may be kept off from assurance, and their lives made a burden to them. 

VOL. II. C C 



402 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

Some say of the crystal, that it hath such a virtue in it, that the very 
touching of it quickens other stones, and puts a lustre and beauty upon 
them. Assurance is that heavenly crystal that quickens souls, and that 
casts a beauty and a glory upon souls ; and this makes the devil mad. 

Satan knows that assurance is manna in a wilderness, it is water out 
of a rock, it is a cloud by day and a pillar of fire by night. He knows 
that assurance is a salve for all sores, and physic for all diseases, and a 
remedy against every malady. He knows that assurance is a Christian's 
anchor at sea, and his shield upon land ; and that it is a staff to support 
him, and a sword to defend him, and a pavilion to hide him, and a cor- 
dial to cheer him ; and therefore it is that he labours, both as a lioa 
and as a serpent, to keep poor souls from a well-grounded assurance. 
This son of the morning is fallen from the top of glory to the bottom of 
misery, and therefore he strives to make all as miserable and unhappy 
as himself 

Ah ! Christians, have not you need to seek assurance with all your 
might, who have to do with so mighty an adversary, who cares not what 
torments he heaps upon himself, so he may prove your tormentor, by 
keeping your souls and assurance asunder ? Oh that this very consider- 
ation might make you restless, till you have got this ' white stone' in 
your bosoms ! 

(5.) The fifth motive to provoke you to get a well grounded assurance 
is this, consider that a well grounded assurance is a jewel of that in- 
comparable value, it is such a pearl of price as will abundantly 
recompense the soul for all the cost and charge it shall be at to enjoy 
it. Aye, the enjoyment of assurance in that hour, when the soul shall sit 
upon thy trembling lips, ready to take her leave of thee, and all tl^e 
world, will richly recompense thee for all those prayers, tears, sighs and 
groans that thou hast breathed out in one place or another, in one 
service or another.* Surely the gold in the mine will recompense the 
digger ; the crown, in the end, will recompense the runner ; the fruit in 
the vineyard will recompense the dresser ; the corn in the bam will re- 
compense the reaper ; and the increase of the stock will recompense the 
shepherd ; so assurance at last will abundantly recompense the soul for 
all its knocking, weeping, and waiting at mercy's door. God will never 
suffer ' the seed of Jacob to seek his face in vain,' Isa. xlv. 19. There 
is a reward not only in keeping, but also for keeping of his commands, 
Ps. xix. 11. Joseph, for his thirteen years' imprisonment, had the 
honour to reign fourscore years like a king ; David, for his seven years' 
banishment, had a glorious reign of forty years' continuance ; Daniel, 
for his lying a few hours among the lions, is made chief president over 
a hundred and twenty princes ; the three children, for taking a few turns 
in the fiery furnace, are advanced to great dignity and glory. Ah ! 
doubting souls, pray hard, pull hard, work hard for assurance ; the pay 
will answer the pains. Christ will, sooner or later, say to thee, as the 
king of Israel said to the king of Syria, ' I am thine, and all that I 
have/ 1 Kings xx. 4. I am thine, O doubting souls, says Christ, and 

' It is a true maxim, He finds' his enemy strong at a dear rate, who contemns him aa 
weak. 

' Hvjntmodi lucri dulcis odor, the smell of this gain is sweet to many ; then what is 
assurance itself? &c. 



Rom. VIII 32-34.] heaven on earth. 403 

assurance is thine, and joy is thine ; my merit is thine, my Spirit is 
thine, and my glory is thine ; all I am is thine, and all I have is thine. 
Oh this is alveariuTTh divini mellifi, an hive full of divine comfort ; oh 
this will recompense thee for all thy wrestling and sweating to obtain 
assurance, Mat. xxv. 34-41 ; Rev. iii. 11, 12. 

Augustine, in his Confessions, hath this notable expression, 'How sweet 
was it to me of a sudden to be without those sweet vanities ; and 
those things which I was afraid to lose with joy I let go, for thou who 
art the true and only sweetness, didst cast out those from me, and in- 
stead of them didst enter in thyself, who art more delightful than all 
pleasure, and more clear than all light.' Ah ! Christians, do but hold 
up and hold on, and assurance and joy will come, and thou shalt, after 
thy working and waiting, sit down and sing it out with old Simeon, 'Mine 
eyes have seen thy salvation ;' my heart hath found the sweetness of 
assurance, and ' now. Lord, let thy servant depart in peace,' Luke ii. 30. 

(6.) The sixth Tnotive to provoke you to get assurance, is this, Consider 
what labour and paiois ivorldlings take to make sure the things of 
this life to them and theirs.^ Ah ! what riding, running, plotting, lying, 
swearing, stabbing, and poisoning is used by men of this world, to make 
sure the poor things of this world, that are but shadows and dreams, 
and mere nothings ! How do many with Samson lay heap upon heap, 
to make their crowns and kingdoms sure, to make the tottering glory of 
this world sure to themselves ! what bloody butchers do they prove ! 
they will have the crown, though they swim to it through blood. Men 
will venture life and limb to make sure these things that hop from man 
to man, as the bird hops from twig to twig. Oh ! how should this stir 
and provoke us to be up and doing, to labour as for life, to make sure 
spiritual and eternal things ! Is earth better than heaven ? Is the glory 
of this world greater than the glory of the world to come ? Are these 
riches more durable than those that corrupt not, that ' are laid up in 
heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves 
do not break through, nor steal ?' Mat. vi. 19, 20. No. Oh then be 
ashamed, Christians, that worldlings are more studious and industrious 
to make sure pebbles, than you are to make sure pearls ; to make sure 
those things that at last will be their burden, their bane, their plague, 
their hell, than you are to make sure those things that would be your 
joy and crown in life, in death, and in the day of your account.' 

Pambus,* in the ecclesiastical history, wept when he saw a harlot 
dressed with much care and cost, partly to see one take so much pains 
to go to hell, and partly because he had not been so careful to please 
God, as she had been to please a wanton lover. Ah, Christians ! what 
great reason have you to sit down and weep bitterly, that worldlings 
take so much pains to make themselves miserable, and that you have 
taken no more pains to get assurance, to get a pardon in your bosoms, 
to get more of Christ into your hearts ! 

* Confessions, b. viii. et alibi — G. 

* Scripture and histories abound with instances of this kind, aa all know that know 
anything of the one or of the other. 

* The laborious, the active Christian, is tempted but by one devil ; but the idle, sloth- 
ful Christian, is tempted by all, saith one. It is very sad, when worldlings are a-reaping, 
that saints as to spirituals should be slumbering and sleeping. 

* Qu. ' Bembus' ?— G. 



404) HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

(7.) The seventh motive to provoke you to get assurance, is to con- 
sider, That assurance luill enable you to hear a burden without a 
burden, as in Heb. x. 34, ' For ye had compassion of me in my bonds, 
and took joyfully the spoiling of your goods, knowing in yourselves that 
ye have in heaven a better and an everlasting substance.' Here you 
see that assurance of heavenly things makes these worthies patiently 
and joyfully bear a burden without a burden. So the apostles, know- 
ing that they had ' a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens, 
went through honour and dishonour, evil report and good report,' 2 Cor. 
V. 8, and vi. 8-11. They went through many weaknesses, sicknesses, 
wants, and deaths ; they had nothing, and yet possessed all things ; 
they had burden upon burden cast upon them by the churches, by false 
apostles, and by an uncharitable world, and yet they cheerfully bore all 
burdens without a burden, through the power of a well-grounded assur- 
ance.^ Assurance makes heavy afflictions light, long afflictions short, 
bitter afflictions sweet, 2 Cor. iv. 16-18. Where a man wants assur- 
ance, there the shadow of a burden frights him, and the weight of the 
least burden sinks him. Such a man is still a-crying out. No man's 
burden to my burden ; my burden is greater than others, my burden 
is heavier than others. The want of assurance oftentimes makes men's 
very mercies a burden, their comforts a burden, their relations a burden, 
yea, their very lives a burden unto them. Ah ! Christians, you will 
never bear burdens without a burden, till you come to attain an assur- 
ance of better things. This will enable you to leap under the weight 
of any cross, to rejoice under the weight of any mountain, Job vii. 20. 
Assurance fits a man's heart to his condition, and when a man's heart 
is fitted to his condition, nothing proves a burden to him. Assurance 
of better things to come takes away the sting, the poison that attends 
these lower things ; and the sting and the poison being taken away, 
the very worst of these things are so far from being a burden to a man, 
that they become rather a pleasure and a delight unto him. When the 
sting is taken out of this or that venomous creature, a man may play 
with it and put it in his bosom.^ Ah ! assurance pulls out the sting 
that is in every cross, loss, &c., and this makes the assured soul to sit 
down singing, when others under far less crosses and losses, sit down 
sighing, mourning, and complaining, Our burdens are greater than we 
are able to bear. If there were but more assurance of better things 
among Christians, there would be less complaints among them of this 
burden, andthat mole-hills then would be no longer mountains. Chris- 
tians, it is not new notions, new opinions, new nothings, as I may say, 
in your heads, but the gaining of a well-grounded assurance in your 
hearts, that will enable you to bear all kinds of burdens without a 
burden. 

(8.) The eighth motive to provoke you to get assurance, is drawn 
from those i^aiiicular commands of God, u-Jtereby he engages Chris- 
tians to get assurance,^ as that in 2 Peter i. 10,' Wherefore the rather, 

> So Moses, and all those worthies in the 11th chapter. 

" I have read of Albas Paulus, who handled serpents and scorpions, and cut them in 
pieces without any hurt, and said, If a man be holy, all things are subject to him as to 
Adam, before his sin in paradise. Surely assurance will enable a man to do much this way. 

3 The saints in heaven have Jelix necessilas, an happy necessity of obeying God alway ; 
but we infelix necessitat, an unhappy necessity of disobeying continually. 



Rom. V^III. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 405 

brethren, give diligence to make your calling and election sure : for if 
ye do these things ye shall never fall.' So 2 Cor. xiii. 5, ' Examine 
yourselves, whether ye be in the faith ; prove your own selves : know 
ye not your own selves, how that Jesus Christ is in you, except ye be 
reprobates or unapproved,' as the Greek imports. So Heb. vi. 11, 
' And we desire that every one of you do shew the same diligence, to 
the full assurance of hope unto the end.' Ah ! you dull, doubting, 
drowsy Christians, you should take all these commands of God, and 
press them with all the power and authority you can upon your hearts, 
to awaken them and provoke them to get assurance of your eternal well- 
being.' Take one command, and charge that upon the heart ; if the 
heart be stout and will not yield, then take another command, and press 
it upon your heart ; if that will not do, then take another, and lay that 
home upon the heart ; and never leave this work till your souls be 
effectually stirred up to labour for assurance with all your might. 
Christians ! you should tell your souls that the commands of God bind 
directly and immediately, that they bind absolutely and universally. 
You must obey God intuitu voluntatis, upon the bare sight of his will, 
and in one thing as well as another. Christians ! if I am not much mis- 
taken, you should make as much conscience of those commands of God 
that require you to get assurance of your future happiness, as you do of 
those commands that requires you to pray, to hear, &c. It is very sad 
to consider that many that complain much of the want of assurance, 
should make no more care and conscience of those commands of God 
that require them to get assurance than some of the heathens have 
done of the commands of their gods; v/ho, when they have called 
for a man, have offered a candle ; or as Hercules, who offered a painted 
man instead of a living. Verily, Christians ! while you make light 
of any of God's commands, God will make as light of your com- 
forts. Did you make more conscience to act answerable to the fore- 
mentioned commands, I am very apt to believe that the Sun of right- 
eousness would certainly and speedily cause his love and glory to beam, 
out upon you. Mind God's commands more than your own wants and 
complaints, and light will break in upon you. By obeying Christ's 
commands, you will gain more than you can give ; by kissing the Son, 
you will even command him, and make him and assurance yours. 

(9.) The ninth motive to provoke you to get assurance is this, Tou 
cannot gratify Satan more, nor injure yourselves more, than by living 
without assurance. By living without assurance, you lay yourselves 
open to all Satan's snares and temptations ; yea, you do instigate and 
provoke Satan to tempt you to the worst of sins, to tempt you to the 
greatest neglects, to tempt you to the strangest shifts, and to reduce 
you to the saddest straits. Ah, Christians ! in what, in what hath Satan 
so gratified you, that you should thus gratify him ? Hath he not robbed 
you of your glory in innocency ? Hath he not kept your souls and your 
Saviour long asunder ? When with Joshua you have been standing before 

1 The precepts of God, saith Lactantius, do so change the whole man, and make him 
new, that you can hardly know him to be the same. — Lactantius, De Falsa Sapient, lib. 
iii. cap. 27 : a thing which philosophy hath much laboured in, but could never achieve. 
Christians ! the pressing of those very commands last cited upon your hearts, may pro- 
duce that comfort and peace, and make such a blessed change in your inward condition, 
as may bespeak much admiration. 



406 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

the Lord, Zech. iii. 1, 2, hath not he stood at your right hand as an 
adversary to resist you ? Hath he not often set the glory of the world 
before you, that he might bewitch you and ensnare you ? Mat. iv. 8. 
Hath he not often cast water upon those divine motions that have been 
kindled in you ? Have you not often found him a lion and a serpent, 
a tempter and a deceiver, a liar and a murderer? 1 Thes. ii. 18. Yes. 
Oh, then, never gi-atify him any longer by living without assurance. 
He that lives without assurance, lives without a comfortable fruition of 
God, and so gratifies Satan. He that lives without assurance, lives 
upon some creature enjoyment more than upon God, and so gratifies 
Satan, He that lives without assurance, lives not like the beloved of 
God, and so gratifies Satan. He that lives without assurance is very 
apt to gratify Satan, sometimes by complying with him, sometimes by 
following after him, and sometimes by acting his part for him, &c. 
Verily, Christians ! there is no way effectually to prevent this sore evil, 
but by getting a well-grounded assurance of your everlasting happiness 
and blessedness. Assurance will make a man stand upon terms of de- 
fiiance with Satan, it will make the soul constant in resisting, and happy 
in overcoming, the evil one. An assured soul will fight it out to the death 
with Satan; an assured soul will not fly like a coward, but will stand and 
triumph like a David. 

And as you gratify Satan by living without assurance, so you wrong 
your own souls by living without assurance. 

(1.) In the point of comfort and joy, you wrong your own souls. 

(2.) In the point of peace and content, you wrong your own souls. 

(3.) In the point of boldness and confidence, you wrong your own 
souls. 

A man that lives without assurance, lays his precious soul open to 
many blows and knocks, to many frowns and wounds, from God, from 
the world, from carnal friends, from hypocrites, and from Satan ; there- 
fore as you would not, Christians, gratify Satan, and wiong your own 
souls, and exercise over yourselves spiritual cruelty and tyranny, which 
is the very worst of all cruelty and tyranny,^ give God no rest till he 
hath made known to you the sweetness of his love, and the secrets of 
his bosom, till he hath gathered you up into himself, till he hath set 
you as 'a seal upon his heart, as a seal upon his arm,' Cant. viii. 6. 

(10.) The tenth motive, to provoke you to get a well-grounded assur- 
ance is this, Consider the sweet 'profit and glorious advantage thai 
will redound to you by gaining assurance ; and if the gain that will 
certainly redound to you by assurance will not provoke you to get assur- 
ance, I know not what will. 

[1.] The first advantage. It wUl bring down heaven into your 
bosoms; it will give you a possession of heaven, on this side heaven, 
Heb. xi. 1. An assured soul lives in paradise, and walks in paradise, 
and works in paradise, and rests in paradise ; he hath heaven within 
him, and heaven about him, and heaven over him ; all his language is 
Heaven, heaven ! Glory, glory ! 

[2.] The second advantage. Assurance will exceedingly sweeten 
all the changes of this life. This life is full of changes. Assurance 
will sweeten sickness and health, weakness and strength, wants and 
> Rapil animam tuam, he plundereth Ms own soul. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 407 

abundance, disgrace and honour, 2 Cor. iv. 16-18, &c. While a man 
lives in the sense of unchangeable loves, no outward changes can make 
any considerable change in his spirit. Let times change, let men 
change, let powers change, let nations change, yet a man under the 
power of assurance will not change his countenance, nor change his 
master, nor change his work, nor change his hopes. Though others 
under changes turn, like the chameleon, into all colours to save their 
little all, yet the assured soul under ail changes is semper idem, 
always the same.^ 

Antistines, a philosopher,^ to make his life happy, desired only that 
he might have the spirit of Socrates, who was always in a quiet temper 
of spirit, whatever wrongs, injuries, crosses, losses, &c., befell him. Let 
the trials be what they would that did attend him, yet he continued 
one and the same. Ah, Christians ! the want of assurance hath made 
many changelings in these days ; but if ever you would be like Socrates, 
if ever you would be like the philosopher's good man, that is, rtr«a- 
yuvo;, Tetragonos, four square, that cast him where you will, like a die, 
he falls always sure and square, then get assurance of everlasting 
happiness. 

Assurance will make your souls like the laws of the Medes and 
Persians, that alter not; it will sweeten the darkest day, and the 
longest night; under variety of changes, it will make a man sit down 
with Habakkuk, and rejoice in the Lord, and joy in the God of his 
salvation, Hab. iii. 17-19. 

[3.] Tlie third advantage. Assurance will keep the heart from an 
inordinate running out after the world, and the glory thereof. 
Moses having an assurance of the recompence of reward, and of his love 
and favour that is invisible, could not be drawn by all the honours, 
pleasures, and treasures of Egypt. He slights all, and tramples upon 
all the glory of the world, as men trample upon things of no worth, 
Heb. xi. 24-27. So after Paul had been in the third heaven, and had 
assurance that nothing should separate him from the love of God in 
Christ, he looks upon the world as a crucified thing : ' The world is 
crucified to me,' saith he, 2 Cor. xii. 1-3, and Rom. viii. 38 ; 'and I am- 
crucified unto the world,' Gal. vi. 14. The world is dead to me, and I 
am dead to it : the world and I am well agreed ; the world cares not a 
pin for me, and I care not a pin for the world. 

The loadstone cannot draw the iron when the diamond is in pre- 
sence ; no more cannot the vanities of this world draw the soul after 
them, when assurance, that choice pearl of price, is in presence. 

I have read of Lazarus, that after he was raised from the grave, 
he was never seen to smile. The assurance that he had of more 
glorious things, did deaden his heart to the things of this world ; he saw 
nothing in them worthy of a smile. Ah ! were there more assurance 
among Christians, there would not be such tugging for the world, and 
such greedy hunting and pursuing after it, as is in these days, to the 
dishonour of God, the reproach of Christ, and the shame of the gospel. 

* Souls that want assurance are like liim in ./Esop, that blew hot and cold with the 
Bame breath. The wind is not more subject to change and shift from one quarter to 
Another, from one corner to another, than they are subject to change and shift in chang- 
ing times. 

' Autisthenes. Gf. Plato, Phsedo, sec. 69, &nd Diog. Laert vi. 10. — Ot. 



408 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

Get but more assurance, and less money will serve your turns ; get but 
more assurance, and less places of honour and profit will serve your 
turns ; get but assurance, and then you will neither transgress for 
a morsel of bread, nor yet violently pursue after the golden wedge, &c.^ 

[4.] The fourth advantage. Assurance will exceedingly heighten 
you in your communion with God, and it will exceedingly sweeten 
your communion with God. Assurance of a man's propriety in God 
raises him high in his fellowship with God, 1 John iii. 2. There are 
none that have such choice and sweet communion with God as those 
that have the clearest assurance of their interest in God, as may be seen 
throughout the whole book of Solomon's Song. ' My beloved is mine, 
and I am his,' saith the spouse, Cant. ii. 16. I am assured of my pro- 
priety in him, says she, and therefore he shall lie all night betwixt my 
breasts ; and upon this account it is that she holds king Jesus in the 
galleries, that she is sick of love, that she is raised and ravished with 
his kisses and embraces : ' His left hand is under my head, and his 
right hand doth embrace me,' chaps, i. 13, vii. 5, ii. 6. None had more 
assurance of her interest in Christ than she, and none higher and 
closer in communion with Christ than she. The wife's assurance of her 
interest in her husband, sweetens and heightens her communion with 
her husband. The child's assurance of his interest in his father, 
sweetens his commerce and fellowship with his father. So the believer's 
assurance of his interest in God, will exceedingly heighten and sweeten 
his communion and fellowship with God. Assurance of a man's interest 
in God sweetens every thought of God, and every sight of God, and 
every taste of God, and every good word of God. God is as sweet to 
the assured soul when he hath a sword in his hand as when he hath a 
sceptre ; when he hath the rod of indignation as when he hath the 
cup of consolation ; when his garments are rolled and dyed in blood 
as when he appears in his wedding robes ; when he acts the part of 
a judge as when he acts the part of a father, &c.* 

[5.] The fifth advantage. Assurance will he a choice preservative 
to keep you from backsliding from God and his xvays. Ah ! assur- 
ance will glue the soul to God and his ways, as Buth was glued to 
her mother Naomi. It will make a man ' stand fast in the faith, and 
quit himself like a good soldier of Christ,' Gal. v. 1, 2 Tim. ii. 3. 
2 Peter i. 10, 11, 'Wherefore, the rather, brethren, give diligence to 
make your calling and election sure : for if ye do these things, ye shall 
never fall' Stumble ye may, and he that does but stumble gets ground 
by his stumbling. Assurance will keep a man from falling foully and 
from falling utterly. Verily, the reason why there is so many apostates 
in these days is, because there are so few that have a well-grounded 
assurance in these days.' 

' So when God gave Galeacius, that Italian marquis, an assurance of everlasting happi- 
ness, he withstood many golden temptations, and cried out, Cursed be he that prefers all 
the glory of the world to one day's communion with Christ, &c. Justice would not be 
sold and bought, as it is in these days, were there more assurance in the world. 

* llabet omnia qui habet habentem omnia, he hath all that hath the owner of all. 

3 Luther, writing to his friend Melancthon, troubled with fears, saith, Si nos ruimut 
ruit et Christus, if we fall, saith he, Christ falls. Pulchrior in prcelio occisus miles quam 
fuga salvuf, better be slain in the bed of honour, than be safe by running away. [Cor- 
respondence during Diet of Augsburg.— G.] 



KOM. VIII. 32-34.] HEAVEN ON EARTH. 40^ 

Pliny speaks of some fishes that swim backward.* Ah ! many pro- 
fessors in these days swim backward ; they swim from God, and Christ, 
and conscience; yea, they swim from the very principles of morality and 
common honesty. Beheve it, friends ! it is not high notions in the 
brain, but sound assurance in the heart, that will keep a man close to 
Christ when others backslide from Christ. An assured Christian will 
not exchange his gold for copper ; he knows that one old piece of gold 
is worth a thousand new counters ; one old truth of Christ is worth 
a thousand new errors, though clothed with glistering robes; and there- 
fore he will prize the truth, and own the truth, and keep close to the 
truth, when others that want a sound assurance make merchandise of 
Christ, precious truths, and of their own and others' immortal souls. 
Get assurance, and thou wilt stand when seeming cedars fall ; want 
assurance, and thou canst not but fall, to the breaking of thy bones, 
if not to the utter loss of thy precious soul, 2 Peter ii. 3. 

[6.] The sixth advantage. Assurance will very much embolden the 
$oul with God. It will make a man divinely familiar with God ; it 
will make a man knock boldly at the door of free grace ; it will make 
a man come boldly before the mercy-seat ; it will make a man enter 
boldly within the holy of holies. Heb. x. 22, ' Let us draw near with 
a true heart, in full assurance^ of faith, having our hearts sprinkled 
from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water.' 
Assurance makes the soul top and top-gallant ; it makes the soul con- 
verse with God as a favourite with his prince, as a bride with her 
bridegroom, as a Joseph with a Jacob. 

Luther, under the power of assurance, lets fall this transcendent i-ap- 
ture of a daring faith, Fiat mea voluntas, let my will be done ; and 
then falls off sweetly, Mea voluntas, Domine, quia tua, my will. Lord, 
because thy will. It is the want of assurance that makes the counte- 
nance sad, the hands hang down, the knees feeble, and the heart full 
of fears and tremblings, Heb. xii. 12. Oh therefore get assurance, and 
that will scatter your fears, and raise your hopes, and cheer your spirits, 
and give wings to faith, and make you humbly bold with God. You will 
not then stand at the door of mercy with a Tnay I knock ? with a nnay I 
go in ? with a Tnay I find audience and acceptance? but you will, 
with Esther, boldly adventure yourselves upon the mercy and goodness 
of God. ' Now verily, I think,' saith one, speaking of Christ, ' he can- 
not despise me, who is bone of my bone, and flesh of my flesh ; for if he 
neglect me as a brother, yet he will love me as a husband : that is my 
comfort.' Assurance will remove all strangeness from between Christ 
and the soul ; of two, it will make Christ and the soul one. 

[7.] The seventh advantage. Assurance will sweeten the thoughts 
of death, and all the acJies, 'pains, weaknesses, sicknesses, and diseases, 
that are the fore-runners of it ; yea, it will make a man look and long 
for that day.^ It will make a man sick of his absence from Christ. It 
makes a man smile upon the king of terrors ; it makes a man laugh at 
the shaking of the spear, at the noise of the battle, at the garments of 

1 Nat. Hist., lib. ix. c. 87. ^ 

' !r^>jjoip»j/a. Such full assurance as fills all the sails of the sotil. 
* Hemo ante funera fdix, — Solon. Nazianzen said of the king of terrors, Devour me, 
devour me. Death cures all diseases, the aching head, and the unbelieving heart. 



4.] HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIIT, 32-34. 

the warriors rolled in blood. It made the martyrs to compliment with 
lions, to dare and tire their persecutors, to kiss the stake, to sing and 
clap their hands in the flames, to tread upon hot burning coals, as upon 
beds of" roses.* 

The assured soul knows that death shall be the funeral of all his sins 
and sorrows, of all afflictions and temptations, of all desertions and 
oppositions. He knows that death shall be the resurrection of his joys ; 
he knows that death is both an outlet and an inlet ; an outlet to sin, 
and an inlet to the soul's clear, full, and constant enjoyment of God ; 
and this makes the assured soul to sing it sweetly out, ' O death, where 
is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory ? * I desire to be dissolved.' 
* Make haste, my beloved.' ' Come, Lord Jesus, come quickly.'^ Now 
death is more desirable than life. Now says the soul, Ejus est timere 
mortem, qui ad Christum, nolit ire, let him fear death that is loath 
to go to Christ, ^o I may be with Christ, though I go in a cloud, I 
care not, says the assured soul ; so I may be with Christ, I care not 
though I go in a fiery chariot, .says the a.ssured souL 

The Persians had a certain day in the year, in which they used to 
kill all serpents and venomous creatures. The assured Christian knows, 
that the day of death will be such a day to him, and that makes death 
lovely and desirable. He knows that sin was the midwife that brought 
death into the world, and that death shall be the grave to bury sin ; 
and therefore death is not a terror, but a delight unto him.^ He 
fears it not as an enemy, but welcomes it as a friend ; as crook-back 
Richard the Third in his distress cried, 'A kingdom for a horse, a king- 
dom for a horse !'* So souls that want assurance, when they come to 
die, will cry out, A kindgom for assurance, a kingdom for assurance ! 
and as Severus said, ' If I had a thousand worlds, I would now give 
them all for Christ.''* So a soul that wants assurance, when he comes to 
enter upon a state of eternity, will cry out. Oh, had I now a thousand 
worlds, I would give them all for assurance, whereas the assured soul 
would not for a thousand worlds but die. When his glass is out, and 
his sun is set, he cries not out, as that lady did,^ ' A world, a world for 
an inch of time !' but rather, Why is it, why is it, Lord, that thy cha- 
riots be so long a-coming V 

[8.] The eighth advantage. Assurance will very much sweeten thai 
little oil that is in the cruse, and that handful of m^eal that is iii the 
barrel,' 1 Kings xvii. 12, &c. Assurance will be sauce to all meats, it 
will make all thy mercies to taste like mercies. It will make Daniel's 
pulse to be as sweet as princes' delicates, Daniel i. 8, 12. It will 
make Lazarus's rags as pleasurable as Dives's robes, Luke xvi. 20. It 
will make Jacob's bed upon the stones, to be as soft as those beds of 
down and ivorj', that sinful great ones stretch themselves upon. Gen. 
xxviii. 18 ; Amos vi. 4. 

^ Ullimus morborum medicut mart, 

« 1 Cor, XV. 55-57 ; Philip, i. 23 ; Cant. viii. 14; Rev. xxii. 20. 

' Morimur dum non morimur. , 

* See Index under Richard III. for former quotation and note. — (x. 

* Query, Serenus, martyr. — G. 

® Queen Elizabeth. See Index under Elizabeth. — G. 

" Ambrose said to his friends about liim, when ho was dying, I have not so lived that 
I am ashamed to live ; nor yet feai I death, because 1 have a good Lord^ &c. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 411 

Look, as the want of assurance embitters all a sinner's mercies, that he 
cannot taste the sweetness and goodness of them ; so the enjoyment of 
assurance casts a general beauty and glory upon the believer's meanest 
mercy. And hence it is, that assured souls live so sweetly, and walk so 
cheerfully, when their little all is upon their backs and in their hands ; 
whereas the great men of the world, that have the world at will, but 
want this assurance, that is more worth than the world, live as slaves 
and servants to these mercies. Job xx. 22. In the midst of all their 
abundance they are in straits and perplexities, full of fears and cares ; 
nothing pleases them, nor is sweet unto them, because they want that 
assurance that sweetens to a believer the ground they stand on, the air 
he breathes, the seat he sits on, the bread he eats, the clothes he wears, 
&c. Ah ! were there more assurance among Christians, they would not 
count great mercies small mercies, and small mercies no mercies ; no, 
no ; then every mercy on this side hell would be a great mercy, then 
every mercy would be a sugared mercy, a perfumed mercy. Look, as 
the tree that Moses cast into the waters of Marah made those bitter 
waters sweet, Exod. xv. 23-25, so assurance is that tree of life that makes 
every bitter sweet, and every sweet more sweet.^ 

(9.) The ninth advantage. Assurance will make a man very 
angelical.' It will make him full of motion, full of action ; it will 
make him imitate the angels, those princes of glory, that are always busy 
and active to advance the glory of Christ. They are still a-singing the 
song of the Lamb ; they are still pitching their tents about them that 
fear the Jjord, Ps. xxxiv. 7 ; they are ministering spirits sent forth for 
the good of them that are heirs of salvation, Heb. i. 14. Assurance will 
make a man fervent, constant, and abundant in the work of the Lord, 
as you may see in Paul. The assured Christian is more motion than 
notion, more work than word, more life than lip, more hand than 
tongue. When he hath done one work, he is a-calling out for another; 
What is the next. Lord, says the assured soul, what is the next ? His 
head and his heart is set upon his work, and what he doth, he doth it 
with all his might, because there is no working in the grave.* An 
assured Christian will put his hand to any work ; he will put his shoulder 
to any burden ; he will put his neck in any yoke for Christ ; he never 
thinks that he hath done enough, he always thinks that he hath done 
too little ; and when he hath done all he can, he sits down sighing it 
out, ' I am but an unprofitable servant.'* 

In a word, assurance will have a powerful influence upon thy heart. 
In all the duties and services of religion, nothing will make a man love 
like this and live like this ; nothing will make a man humble and 
thankful, contented and cheerful, like this. Nothing will make a man 
more serious in prayer, nor ingenuous in praises, than this ; nothing will 

* A believer knows, (1.) that his little mercies are from great love ; (2.) that they are 
pledges of greater; (3.) that his blessings are blessed unto him : (4.) that they shall not 
at last be witnesses against him. 

' The Rabbins say, that the angels attend in all judicatories. 

• Assurance makes a saint all fire ; it makes him like the burning seraphims. Isa. vi. 2-4. 
<* Bellarmine is of opinion that one glimpse of hell were enough to make a man not 

only turn Christian, but a monk, to live after the strictest rules, to be abounding in well- 
doing. Surely assurance of heaven will make a man do more. 



412 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34-. 

make a man more cheerful and joyful than this ; nothing Avill make a 
man fit to live and more willing to die, than this. 

Ah, Christians ! if ever you would act as angels in this world, get an 
assurance of another world ; then you shall be dumb no more, nor dull 
no more, but be active and lively, like those whose hopes and whose 
hearts are in heaven. 

(10.) The tenth advantage. Assurance will sweeten Christ, and the 
precious things of Christ, to thy souL^ Ah ! how sweet is the person of 
Christ, the natures of Christ, the aims of Christ, the oflfices of Christ, 
the benefits of Christ, the blood of Christ, the word of Christ, the 
threatenings of Christ, the Spirit of Christ, the ordinances of Christ, the 
smiles of Christ, the kisses of Christ, to an assured soul. Now thy 
meditations on Christ will be no more a terror, nor a horror to thee ; 
nay, now thy heart will be always best, when you are most in ponder- 
ing upon the sweetness and goodness, the kindness and loveliness, of the 
Lord Jesus. Now all the institutions and adminstrations of Christ 
will be precious to thee. Upon everything where Christ hath set his 
name, there thou wilt set thy heart. Now thou wilt call things as 
Christ calls them, and count things as Christ counts them ; that shall 
not be little in thy eye, that is great in the eye of Christ ; nor that shall 
not be great in thy eye that is but little in the eye of Christ.' 

Assurance will also exceedingly sweeten your carriage to all that bear 
the image of Christ. Nothing will make men bear with those weak 
saints whose light is not so clear as yours, whose parts are not so strong 
as yours, whose enjoyments are not so high as yours, whose j,udgments 
are not so well informed as yours, whose consciences are not so well 
satisfied as yours, and whose lives are not so amiable as yours. 

Assurance makes men of a God-like disposition, easy to pardon, ready 
to forgive, abundant in goodness, admirable in patience. It makes men 
to study the good of others, and joy in all opportunities wherein they 
may strengthen the feeble, and comfort the dejected, and enrich the 
impoverished, and recover the seduced, and enlarge the straitened, and 
build up the wasted. Verily, the reason why men are so bitter and 
sour, and censorious, is because God hath not given into their bosoms 
this sweet flower of delight, assurance.' 

Ah ! were their souls fully assured that God had loved them freely, 
and received them graciously, and justified them perfectly, and par- 
doned them absolutely, and would glorify them everlastingly, they 
could not but love where God loves, and own where God owns, and em- 
brace where God embraces, and be one with every one that is one with 
Jesus. Were there more assurance among Christians, there would be 
more of David's and Jonathan's spirit among Christians, than there is 
this day. 

Were there more assurance among Christians, there would be more 
life and more love, more sweetness and more tenderness. Were there 

' Ipse Deus sufficit ad prcemium — Bernard. It is heaven enough to see your interest 
in Christ. 

* Assurance is like fire, very operative. Si rum operaiur non eat, if it do not work, it is 
an argument it is not at all. 

' Rom. XV. 1. We are united in the same head and hope, eodem sanguine Christi 
ghitinari, we are cemented with the same hlood of Christ, as Augustine said of his friend 
Alypius and himself. [Epist., tvh nomine. — G.] 



Rom. VIII. 32-84.] heaven on earth. 413 

more assurance, there would be less noise, less contention, less division, 
less distraction, less biting, and less devouring among the saints.' 

Assurance will make the lion and the calf, the wolf and the lamb, 
the leopard and the kid, the bear and the cow, lie down together, and 
feed together, Isa. xi. 6-8. Men that want assurance love their brethren 
as flies love the pot. So long as there is any meat in the pot, the flies 
love it ; so those men will love as long as there is an external motive 
to draw love, but when that ceases, their love ceases. 

Dionysius loved his bottles when they were full, but hurled them 
away when they were empty. So many that want assurance love the 
saints while their bags are full, and their houses full of the good things 
of this life ; but when they are empty, then they throw them away, then 
they cast them off, as Job's friends did him. 

Ah ! but assurance will make a man love as God loves, and love as 
long as God loves. The assured Christian will not- cease to love so 
long as the least buds and blossoms of grace appear. Lazarus in his 
rags is as lovely to an assured Christian as Solomon in his robes. Job 
is as delightful to him upon the dunghill as David is upon his throne. 
It is not the outward pomp and bravery, but the inward beauty and 
glory of saints that takes the assured Christian. 

(11.) Ihe eleventh motive to provoke you to get a weU-grounded 
assurance of your everlasting happiness is this, consider that as there 
is a great deal of counterfeit knowledge, counterfeit faith, counterfeit 
love, counterfeit repentance, <&c. in the world, so there is a great deal 
of counterfeit assurance in the world. Many there be that talk high, 
and look big, and bear it out bravely that they are thus and thus, and 
that they have such and such glorious assurance, whereas, when their 
assurance comes to be weighed in the balance of the sanctuary, it is 
found too light ; and when it comes to withstand temptations, it is found 
too weak; and when it should put the soul upon divine action, it is 
found to be but a lazy presumption. Shall the counterfeit gold that is 
in the world make men active and diligent to get that which is current, 
and that will abide the touchstone and the fire ? and shall not that 
counterfeit assurance that is in the world provoke your hearts to be so 
much the more careful and active to get such a well-grounded assurance 
that God accounts as current, and that will abide his touchstone in the 
day of discovery, and that will keep a man from shame and blushing 
when the thrones shall be set and the books shall be opened ? 

I have been the longer upon these motives to provoke your souls to 
get a well-grounded assurance, because it is of an eternal concernment 
to you, and a work to which men's hearts are too backward. 

Though assurance carries a reward in its own bosom, yet few look 
after it ; though the pains of getting it be nothing to the profit that 
accompanies it, yet few will sweat to gain it. 

If the inducements laid down will not awaken and provoke you to be 
restless till you have got the ' white stone ' and ' new name,' till you 
have got the assurance of your pardon in your bosoms, I know not 
what will. 

' { ' Magnea amoris eat amor, love is the attractive loadstone of love. 



414 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 



CHAPTER V. 

Shewing the several ways and means of gaining a well-grounded 

assurance. 

(1.) The first means. If ever you will attain to assurance, then h6 
much in the exercise and actings of grace. As the believing Ephesians, 
Eph. i. 13, were in the very exercise and actings of grace, the Spirit of 
the Lord ' sealed them up to the day of redemption.' Assurance flows 
in upon the actings of grace. Assurance is bred and fed, it is raised 
and maintained in the soul, by the actings of graca Grace is most 
discernible when it is most in action, and grace is made more and more 
perfect by acting. Neglect of your graces is the ground of their de- 
crease. Wells are the sweeter for drawing ; you get nothing by dead 
and useless habits ; talents hid in a napkin gather rust ; the noblest 
faculties are embased when not improved ; grace in the habit is no more 
discernible than fire under the ashes, than gold in the ore, than a dead 
man in the grave ; but grace, in its lively actings and operations, is as 
a prince upon his throne, sparkling and shining.^ 

Ah, Christians ! were your grace more active, it would be more visible ; 
and were your grace more visible, your assurance would be more clear 
and full. As St Paul once spake to Timothy, * Stir up the gift of God 
that is in thee,'^ 2 Tim. i. 6, so say I to you, If ever you would have 
assurance, stir up the grace of God that is in you, blow up that heavenly 
fire, raise up those noble spirit.s, never cease believing nor repenting, 
till it be clearly given into your bosoms, that you are sure that you do 
believ?, and that you do repent, as you are sure that you live, as you 
are sure that God rules in Jacob, and dwells in Zion. 

Remember, Christians, all the honour that God hath from you in this 
life, is from the actings and exercise of your grace, and not from the 
habits of grace. Remember, Christians, that all your consolations flow, 
not from the habits, but from the acts of grace. Remember, Christians, 
that the want of the exercise of grace is the reason why you do not 
discern your grace, and why you have no more assurance of your future 
happiness. He that will be rich, must still be turning the penny; and 
he that will attain unto the riches of assurance, must still be acting his 
graces, Col. ii.^. There are none but lively, active Christians, that 
know and feel those joys, comforts, and contents that attend the exer- 
cise of grace. If thou wouldst not be always a babe in grace, and a 
stranger to assurance, then see that thy lamp be always burning, see 
that thy golden wheels of grace be always going. 

(2.) The second means. If you would. Christians, attain unto assur- 
ance, then you must mind your work more than your wages ; you 
must he better at obeying than disputing; at doing, at walking, than 
at talking and wrangling.^ Assurance is heavenly wages that Christ 

'A Christian that would have assurance, must never leave blowing his little spark till 
he hath blowed it into a flame. 

» The words are an allusion to the fire in the temple, which was always to be kept 
burning. Vide Calvin on the text. 

' Non enim passibua ad Deum sed affecHbua currimus. Amhulas si amas, thou walkest 
if thou lovest to walk. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 415 

gives, not to loiterers, but to holy labourers. Though no man merits 
assurance by his obedience, yet God usually crowns obedience with 
assurance. John xiv. 21-23, ' He that hath my commandments, and 
keepeth them, he it is that loveth me ; and he that loveth me shall be 
loved of my Father, and I will love him. and manifest myself to him. 
Judas saith unto him (not Iscariot), Lord, how is it that thou wilt 
manifest thyself unto us, and not unto the world ? Jesus answered 
and said unto him, If any man love me, he will keep my words : and 
my Father will love him, and we will come unto him, and make our 
abode with him.' In these words you see, that doing Christians, 
working Christians, are the only Christians that shall have most of the 
love of the Father and the Son, and that shall have the choicest mani- 
festations of grace and favour, and that shall have most of their pre- 
sence and company. So in Ps. 1. 23, * Unto him that ordereth his con- 
versation aright, will I declare the salvation of God/^ That is, I will 
declare myself to be his Saviour, I will shew him salvation, and I will 
shew him his interest in salvation ; I will save him, and I will make 
him see that I have saved him. He shall see the worth of salvation, 
and test the sweetness of salvation. So Gal. vi. 16, ' And as many as 
walk according to this rule ' (that is, the rule of the new creature), 
'peace be on them, and mercy upon the Israel of God.' The Greek 
word that is here rendered ' walk,' signifies not simply to walk, but to 
walk by rule, in order, and measure, without treading aside, but 
making straight steps to our feet.* Now those choice souls that thus 
walk according to the law of the new creature, shall have peace and 
mercy in them, and peace and mercy with them, and peace and mercy 
on them. ' As many as walk according to this rule, peace and mercy 
be on them,' Assurance is a jewel of too high a price to be cast into 
any of their bosoms that walk contrary to the laws of the new creature. 
Such may talk of assurance, and make a stir'and a noise about assur- 
ance, but it is the close walking Christian that shall be crowned with 
assurance. Assurance is a choice part of a believer's happiness, and 
therefore God will never give it out of a way of holiness. ' The Lord 
hath set apart for himself the man that is godly,' Ps. iv. 3. None are 
favourites in God's court, nor none are admitted to be of his counsel, 
but those who are all glorious within, and whose raiment is of em- 
broidered gold. That is, such whose principles are full of spiritual 
glory, and whose practices are amiable and answerable in purity and 
sanctity. These are the persons that shall have the honour to have 
God's ear, and the happiness to know his heart.' 

(3.) The third means. To gain assurance, is to be kind to the SpiHt, 
hear his voice, follow his counsel, live up to his laws. The Spirit is 
the great revealer of the Father's secrets, he lies in the bosom of the 
Father, he knows eVery name that is written in the book of life ; he is 
best acquainted with the inward workings of the heart of God towards 
poor sinners ; he is the great comforter, and the only sealer up of souls 
to the day of redemption.* If you set him a-mourning by your wilful 

1 y)"] U\i^, that disposeth his way, as God hath prescribed. 
** rroix^ravm. Vide Bezam and Pareus on the text. 

' Vis nunquam esse tristis ? Bene vtve, wouldst thou never be sad ? Then live well, sajrs 
Bernard. * Rom. viii. 26 ; John xiv. 26: Eph. i. 13. 



416 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34«. 

sinnings, that alone can glad you, by whom will you be gladded? 
Verily, Christians, when you turn your back upon the Spirit, he will not 
turn his face upon your souls. Your vexing of the Spirit will be but 
the disquieting of yourselves, Isa. Ixiii. 10. Look, as all lights cannot 
make up the want of the light of the sun, so all creatures cannot make 
up the want of the testimony of the Spirit. Let me speak to you, as 
God once spake to his people in Exod. xxiii. 20-23, ' Behold, says God, 
I send an angel before thee, to keep thee in thy way, and to bring thee 
into the place which I have prepared. Beware of him, and obey his 
voice ; provoke him not, for he will not pardon your transgressions, for 
my name is in him,' &c.^ So say I, behold the Spirit of the Lord, that 
is your guide and guard, he also is only able to make a soul-satisfying 
report of the'love and favour to you ; therefore, as ever you would have 
assurance, beware of him and obey his voice, provoke him not; for if 
you do by wilful transgressions, he will neither comfort you nor counsel 
you; he will neither be a sealing nor a witnessing Spirit unto you ; 
nay, he will raise storms and tempests in your souls ; he will present 
to you the Father frov/ning, and your Saviour bleeding, and himself as 
grieving ; and these sights will certainly rack and torture your doubt- 
ing souls. The Spirit of the Lord is a delicate thing, a holy thing, a 
blessed guest, that makes every soul happy where he lodges. ' There- 
fore grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby ye are sealed unto the 
day of redemption,'^ Eph. iv. 30. You will not grieve your guests, your 
friends, but courteously and friendly entertain them ; why then do 
you make so little conscience of grieving that Holy Spirit that alone 
can stamp the image of the Father upon you, and seal you up to life 
and glory ? 

Ah, Christians ! the way to assurance is not to sit down sighing and 
complaining of the want of assurance, but it lies in your eyeing of the 
Spirit, in your complying with the Spirit, in your cleaving to the Spirit, 
in your following of the Spirit, in your welcoming of the Spirit, and in 
your honouring and obeying of the Spirit. As he said of the sword of 
Goliah, ' None like to that,' 1 Sam. xxi. 9 ; so say I, no means like to this, 
to gain a well-grounded assurance of a man's happiness and blessedness. 
And as he said, ' If there be any way to heaven on horseback, it is by 
prayer ;' so say I, if there be any way in the world to assurance, it is 
by being fearful to offend, and careful to please the Spirit of the Lord, 
whose office it is to witness to poor souls the remission of their sins, 
and the salvation of their souls. 

(4.) The fourth means. If you would obtain assurance, then he sin- 
cere, be diligent and constant in assuring ordinances. He that will 
meet the king, must wait on him in his walks, Isa. Ixiv. 5. Christ's 
ordinances are Christ's walks; and he that would see the beauty of 
Christ, and taste of the sweetness of Christ, and be ravished with the 
love of Christ, must wait at wisdom's door, they must attend Christ in 
his own appointments and institutions. Rev ii. 1 ; Prov. viii. 34, 35. That 

^ This angel is the Lord Jesus, as expositors do generally agree. ^3S?D, Malachi, 
which Hebrew word is here rendered angel, is by transposition of letters Michael, au 
some of the Rabbins have observed. 

* This phrase is tropically to be understood. The Greek cannot be fully expressed in 
our tongue, t« -jfyiZfjia,, to clytey, Tou ^laD,, i. e. the Spirit, the holy of that God. To shew 
the transcendent excellency and glory of the Holy Spirit. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on eakth. 417 

comfort and assurance that flows not in through the golden pipes of the 
sanctuary, will not better the soul, nor long abide with the soul ; it will 
be as the morning dew, and as the flowers of the field that soon fade 
away, Hosea vi. 4 ; 1 Peter i. 24. 

I have in the former discourse shewed at large how the Lord is gra- 
ciously pleased to cause his love and glory to beam forth upon souls 
in ordinances ; and therefore I shall say no more unto this particular at 
this time. 

(5.) The fifth rrheans to obtain assurance is, wisely and seriously to 
observe what gift of God there is in thee, that brings thee within the 
compass of the promises of etei^nal mercy. Now, let the gift be this or 
that, if it be a gift that brings thee within the compass of the promise 
of eternal mercy, that gift is an infallible evidence of thy salvation. 

For the better and further opening of this truth, premise with me 
these two thinofs : 

[1.] First, No man can have any sure evidence to himself of his 
happiness and blessedness from absolute promises.^ Absolute promises do 
not describe to whom salvation and all eternal blessings do belong. The 
promise of giving Christ, of giving the Spirit, of giving a new heart, 
and of pardoning and blotting out sin, are all absolute promises. Now 
God is free to make good these to whom he pleases ; therefore he often 
steps over the rich and chooses the poor ; the learned, and chooses the 
ignorant ; the strong, and chooses the weak ; the noble, and chooses the 
ignoble ; the sweet nature, and chooses the rugged nature, &c., that no 
flesh may glory, and that all may shout out Grace, grace \ 1 Cor. i. 
25-29. 

[2.] Secondly, Though no man can have any sure evidence of his 
happiness and blessedness from absolute promises, because absolute pro- 
mises do not describe the persons to whom salvation and all eternal 
blessings do belong ; yet absolute promises are of most choice and 
singular use. 

(1.) In that they discover to us that our salvation is only from free 
grace, and not from anything in us or done by us. 

(2.) They are a most sure and glorious foundation for the very worst 
of sinners to stay their filthy, guilty, wearied, burdened, perplexed souls 
upon. Seeing that God looks not for any penny or pennyworth, for any 
portion or proportion in the creature to draw his love, but he will 
justify, pardon, and save for his name's sake, Isa. Iv. 1, 2 ; seeing all the 
motives that move God to shew mercy are in his own bosom ; seeing 
they are all within doors, there is no reason why the vilest of sinners 
should sit down and say. There is no hope, there is no help, Deut. vii, 
7, 8 ; Ps. Ixviii. 18. 

[3.] Thirdly, Absolute promises may, and doubtless often are, choice 
cordials to many precious souls, who happily have lost the sense and 
feeling of divine favour. Absolute promises are watei*s of life to many 
precious sons of Sion. They are a heavenly fire at which they can sit 
down and warm themselves when they cannot blow their own spark 
into a flame, and when all candle-light, torch-light, and star-light fails 

' Isa. xlii. 6, xlix. 8 ; Joel ii. 28 ; Ezek. xxxvi. 26, 27 ; Jer. xxxii. 40 ; Heb. viii. 10- 
12;' Isa. x.xxii. 16. 

VOL. H. D d 



418 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

them. When all other comforts can yield a perplexed, distressed soul 
no comfort, yet then absolute promises will prove full breasts of con- 
solation to the distressed soul.' 

These things being premised, see now what gift of God there is in thee 
that brings thee within the compass of the promise of everlasting happi- 
ness and blessedness ; and to help you a little in this, I shall put you 
in mind of these following particulars. 

1. The first gift. Faith is a gift of God that brings the soul within 
the promise of everlasting blessedness, as the Scripture doth everywhere 
evidence : ' He that believes shall be saved ;' ' he that believes shall not 
come into condemnation ;' ' he shall not perish ;' ' he shall have eternal 
life,' &c.^ Now believing is nothing else but the accepting of Christ for 
thy Lord and Saviour, as he is offered to thee in the gospel ; and this 
accepting is principally, if not only, the act of thy will ; so that if thou 
art sincerely and cordially willing to have Christ upon his own terms, 
upon gospel terms, that is, to save thee and rule thee, to redeem thee 
and to reign over thee, then thou art a believer. Thy sincere willing- 
ness to believe is thy faith ; and this gift brings thee within the compass 
of the promise of eternal happiness and blessedness. 

Chi'istian reader, in the following discourse thou wilt find the nature, 
the properties, and the excellencies of a sound saving faith clearly and 
largely laid open before thee ; and therefore I shall say no more to it in 
this place, but refer thee to what follows. 

2. The second gift. Waiting 'patiently on God is a gift that brings 
thee within the promise of everlasting happiness and blessedness. And 
he that hath but a waiting frame of heart, hath that that God will 
eternally own and crown : Isa. xxx. 18, 'And therefore will the Lord 
wait that he may be gracious unto you ; and therefore will he be exalte'd 
that he may have mercy upon you ; for the Lord is a God of judgment: 
blessed are all they that wait for him.' Verily, it is no iniquity to pronounce 
them blessed that God pronounces blessed. It is no piety, but cruelty 
and inhumanity, for any not to be as merciful to themselves as God is 
merciful to them ; not to have as sweet and precious thoughts of their 
present condition as God hath. If God says the waiting soul is blessed, 
who dares judge, who dares say it is not blessed? ' Let God be true, and 
every "man a liar,' Rom. iii. 4 ; Isa Ixiv. 4, ' For since the beginning of the 
world, men have not heard nor perceived by the ear, neither •hath the eye 
seen, O God, besides thee, what he [hath] prepared for him that waiteth 
for him '; Prov. viii. 34, ' Blessed is the man that heareth me, watching 
daily at my gates, and waiting at the posts of my doors' ; Isa. xlix. 23, 
' They shall not be ashamed that wait for me'; that is, I will never fail 
the waiting soul ; I will never put him to blushing by frustrating his 
patient waiting on me. The waiting soul shall bear the belt, and carry 
away the crown at last. Verily, glorious love and power is as much 
seen in keeping up a poor soul in a patient waiting on God, as it was 
in raising Christ from the grave, and as it is in bringing souls to glory. 
Nothing can make the waiting soul miserable. Hold out faith and 

' Bilney was much comforted in a great conflict by that promise, 1 Tim. i. 15 ; and 
Ursine by that in John x. 29 ; another by that in Isa. Ivii. 15 ; another by that in Isa. 
xxxi. 3 ; Mr Wheatley with that in Heb. x. 87, &c. [See Index, sub nominibus, for other 
references to these worthies. — G.] 

* Mark xvi. 16; John iii, 15, 16, &c. ; John i. 12. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 419 

patience but a little, ' and he that shall come will come, and bring his 
reward with him,' Rev. xxii. 11, 12. 

3. The third gift. HungeHng and thirsting after righteousness is 
a gift that brings the soul within the compass of the promise of ever- 
lasting happiness and blessedness : Mat. v. 6, ' Blessed are they which 
do hunger and thirst after righteousness : for they shall be filled '; or as 
it runs in the Greek, ' Blessed are they that are hungering and thirsting,' 
<!tiivtZvTsg xai di-^iZfrsg, intimating that wherever this is the present dis- 
position of men's souls, they are blessed, and may expect spiritual 
repletions. 

Considerable to this purpose is that of Isa. xliv. 2-5 : ' Thus saith the 
Lord that made thee, and formed thee from the womb, which will help 
thee : Fear not, O Jacob my servant ; and thou, Jeshurun, whom I 
have chosen. For I will pour water upon him that is thirsty, and floods 
upon the dry ground : I will pour my Spirit upon thy seed, and my 
blessing upon thy offspring. And they shall spring up as among the 
grass, as willows by the water-courses. One shall say, I am the Lord's; 
and another shall call himself by the name of Jacob ; and another shaL 
subscribe with his hand unto the Lord, and surname himself by the 
name of Israel.'^ 

Of the like consideration is that of Isa. xxxv. G, 7, ' Then shall the 
lame man leap as an hart, and the tongue of the dumb sing ; for in the 
wilderness shall waters break forth, and streams in the desert. And the 
parched ground shall become a pool, and the thirsty land springs of 
water : in the habitation of dragons, where each lay, shall be grass, with 
reeds and rushes.' 

To the like purpose is that in Ps. cvii. 9, * For he satisfieth the 
longing soul, and filleth the hungry soul with goodness.' 

But that none may mistake nor miscarry in this business, that is of 
an eternal concernment to them, I shall desire them to premise with me 
these following things, for a better and fuller clearing of this particular 
truth that is under our present consideration. 

First, Premise this with me : All real hungerings and thirstings 
after righteousness are earnest and vehement thirstings and longings. 
They are like Rachel's longing for children, and like Samson's longing 
for water : Ps. xlii. 1, 2, ' As the hart panteth after the water-brook, so 
panteth my soul after thee, O God. My soul thirsteth for God, for the 
living God : when shall I come and appear before God V Philosophers 
observe, that of all the beasts, the hart is most thirsty by nature, but 
most of all thirsty when she is hunted and pursued by dogs. Says 
David : As the hunted hart, as the wounded hart, yea, as the she-hart, 
in whom the passions of thirst are strongest, panteth after the water- 
brooks, so doth my soul pant after thee, O God. A gracious soul 
panteth and fainteth, it breatheth and breaketh, for the longing it hath 
at all times after the righteousness of Christ imputed and infused, Ps. 
cxix. 20. The Greeks derive their word for desire from a root that 
signifies to hum.^ Ah, Christians ! real desires are burning desires ; 
they set the soul all in a holy flame after God and Christ. If they are 

^ By water is meant the Spirit, say some ; others understand it of the spiritual waters 
of grace, that God will pour out upon those that thirst and long after an abundance 
of grace, &c. * See Index under • Desire.' — G. 



420 HEAVEN ON EAETH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

not vehement, if they do not put an edge upon thy affections, if tliey do 
not make thee like a burning seraphim, Christ will take no pleasure in 
them ; they shall return into thy own bosom without working any 
wonders in heaven, as those desires do that flow from the soul's being 
touched with a coal from the altar. 

Secondly, Premise this with me. All real hungerings in the soul 
after inghteousness,ari8efTom spiritual and heavenly consideration^;^ 
they spring in the soul from some convictions, some apprehensions, 
some persuasions that the soul hath, of a real worth, of a real beauty, 
gloiy, and excellency that is in Christ, and in his righteousness, imputed 
and imparted. Such desires after righteousness that flow from external 
considerations, are of no worth, weight, or continuance, but those desires 
after righteousness that flow from spiritual considerations, are full of 
spirit, life, and glory ; they are such that God will not only observe but 
accept, not only record but reward, Ps. cxlv. 19. 

Thirdly, Real hungerings and thirstings after Christ and his right- 
eousness, <&€.., ivill put the soul upon lively endeavours. If they are 
true-born desires, they will not make the soul idle but active ; not 
negligent but diligent, in the use of all holy means, whereby the soul 
may enjoy Christ and his righteousness : Isa. xxvi. 9, ' With my soul 
have I desired thee in the night, yea, with my spirit within me will I 
seek thee early.' Real desires will make us earnest and early in seek- 
ing to obtain the thing desired, as the Hebrew word imports.^ A 
thirsty man will not only long for drink, but labour for it ; the con- 
demned man will not only desire his pardon, but he will write, and 
entreat, and weep, and set this friend and that to solicit for him ; the 
covetous man doth not only wish for wealth, but will rise early and go 
to bed late, he will turn every stone, and make attempts upon all 
hopeful opportunities, whereby he may fill his bags and fill his bams. 
Even so, all holy desires will put souls upon the use of the means, 
whereby the mercy desired may be gained. And thus to run, is to 
attain ; thus to will, is to work ; thus to desire, is to do the will of our 
Father, who accepts of pence for pounds, of mites for millions. 

The Persian monarch was not so famous for accepting a little water 
from the hand of a loving subject, as our God is for accepting a handful 
of meal for a sacrifice, and a gripe^ of goat's hair for an oblation ; for 
accepting of that little we have, and for accounting our little much. 
Lev. ii, 2 ; Exod. xxxv. 6 ; 2 Cor. viii. 12. 

Noah's sacrifice could not be great, and yet it was greatly accepted 
and highly accounted of by God. Such is God's condescending love to 
weak worms, that he looks more at their will than at their work ; he 
minds more what they would do, than what they do do ; he always 
prefers the willing mind before the worthiest work, and where desires 
and endeavours are sincere, there God judges such to be as good as 
they desire and endeavour to be. 

Fourthly, Spiritual hungerings and thirstings are only satisfied 
with spiHtual things. John xiv. 8, 'Shew us the Father, and it 

> Ps. Ixiii. 1-4, xxvii. 4 ; Philip, iii. 7-10. 

* "linK'S from IPIK', which signifies 1o seek in the morning, when it is but dim and 
dusky, scarce twilight; for of darkness it hath its name, and it notes both an earnest 
aud an early seeking. * Seo Glossary, tub voce. — G. 



J 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. '421 

sufficeth us.* All things in the world cannot suffice us, but a sight of 
the Father, that will satisfy us : Ps. Ixiii. 5, 6, ' My soul shall be satisfied 
as with marrow and fatness ; and my mouth shall praise thee with 
joyful lips ; when I remember thee upon my bed, and meditate on thee 
in the night-watches.' Ps. Ixv, 4, ' We shall be satisfied with the good- 
ness of thy house, even of thy holy temple.' It is only God, and the 
precious things of his house, that can satisfy a thirsty soul.* 

It was a sweet saying of one, ' As what I have, if offered to thee, 
pleaseth thee not, O Lord, without myself; so the good things we have 
from thee, though they may refresh us, yet they cannot satisfy us, 
without thyself.' The rattle without the breast will not satisfy the 
child, the house without the husband will not satisfy the wife, the 
cabinet without the jewel will not satisfy the virgin, nor the world 
without Christ will not satisfy the soiil. 

Luther, in a time of wants, receiving unexpectedly a good sum of 
money from the elector of Germany, at which being somewhat amazed, 
he turned himself to God and protested, that God should not put him 
off with such poor low things.^ The hungry soul will not be put off with 
any bread but with the bread of life ; the thirsty soul will not be put 
off with any water but with the well-springs of life. As the king of 
Sodom said once, ' Take you the goods, give me the persons,' Gen. xiv. 
21 ; so says the hungry soul. Take you the goods, take your honours, 
and riches, and the favour of creatures, take you the corn, the oil, and 
the wine ; give me Christ, give me the light of his countenance, give 
me the joy of his Spirit, &c. Oh the answering of spiritual breathings 
is very sweet to the soul : Prov. xiiL 19, ' The desire accomplished is 
sweet to the soul.' Returns from heaven make a paradise in the soul. 

I have read of Darius, that when he fled from his enemy, and being 
in great thirst, he met with a dirty puddle of water, with carrion 
lying in it, and he sucked in and drank very heartily of it, and pro- 
fessed, ' That it was the sweetest draught that ever he drunk in his 
life.'' Ah, how sweet then are those waters of life that be at God's 
right hand ! How sweet are the droppings of God's honeycomb upon 
the hungry soul ! Water out of the rock, and manna in the wilderness, 
was not so sweet to the hungry, thirsty Israelites, as spiritual answers 
and spiritual returns are to those that hunger and thirst after spiritual 
things. 

(6.) TJie sixth means to obtain a well-grounded assurance of your 
everlasting happiness is, to be much, yea, to excel in those choice par- 
ticular things that mxiy clearly and fully difference and distinguish 
you, not only from the profane, hut also from the highest and most 
glistering hypocrites in all the world* It is nothing to be much in 
those duties and performances wherein the worst of sinners may equalize, 
yea, go beyond the best of saints. Oh ! but to excel in those things that 
the most refined hypocrites cannot reach to, this cannot but much help 

' Christus estmihipro omnibus, saith one, 

' Valde protestatus sum, me nolle sic satiari ab eo. — Luther. 

* Quintus Curtius? — Gr, 

f Many may be much in and for church ordinances, whose hearts are very carnal, and 
whose lives aro very vain, Ezek, xxiv. 21, 32. You have seven expressions of carnal hearts 
prizing church privileges: so Jer. iv. 3 ; Ezek. xxxiii. 30-33 ; laa. i. 11-14; Zech. vii. 
4-7 ; Isa. Iviii. 1-3, &c 



422 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 82-34. 

you on to assurance. He that hath those jewels in his bosom that God 
gives only to his choicest favourites, needs not question whether he be 
a favourite, &c. If he doth it, it is his sin, and will hereafter be his 
shame. 

But you may say to me, What are those choice particular things that 
may difference and distinguish Christ's true Nathanaels from all other 
persons in the world ? 

Now, to this question I shall give these following answers : 

[1.] The first distinction. A true Nathanael, in his constant course, 
labours in all duties and sei^vices to he apjyroved and accepted of 
God. He is most studious and industrious to approve his heart to God 
in all that he puts his hand to. So David, ' Search me, God, and 
know my heart ; try me, and know my thoughts ; and see if there be 
any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting,' Ps. cxxxix. 
23, 24.^ So Peter approves his heart to Christ three several times to- 
gether : * Lord, thou knowest that I love thee ; Lord, thou knowest 
that I love thee ; Lord, thou knowest all things, thou knowest that I 
love thee,' John xxi. 15-17. Thou knowest the sincerity and reality of 
my love, and therefore to thee I do appeal. To the same purpose the 
apostle speaks : 2 Cor. v. 9, ' Wherefore we labour, that, whether pre- 
sent or absent, we may be accepted of him.' The Greek word [p/Xor;/Aou- 
fji'iSa] that is here rendered labour, is a very emphatical word ; it signifies 
to labour and endeavour with all earnestness and might, to endeavour 
with a high and holy ambition to be accepted of God, judging it the 
greatest honour in the world to be owned and accepted of the Lord. 
Ambitious men are not more dUigent, earnest, studious, and laborious 
to get honour among men, than we are, saith the apostle, to get accept- 
ance with God. Ah ! but your most refined hypocrites labour only to 
approve themselves to men in their praying, fasting, talking, hearing, 
giving, &c.^ Let them have but man's eye to see them, and man's ear 
to hear them, and man's tongue to commend them, and man's hand to 
reward them, and they will sit down and bless themselves, saying it is 
enough ; aha ! so would we have it. 

They say of the nightingale, that when she is solitary in the woods, 
she is careless of her note ; but when she conceives that she hath any 
auditors, or is near houses, then she composes herself more quaintly 
and elegantly. Verily, this is the frame and temper of the best of 
hypocrites. Oh ! but a sincere Nathanael labours in all places, and in 
all cases and services, to approve himself to God ; he labours as much 
to approve himself to God in a wood, where no eye sees him, as he doth 
when the eyes of thousands are fixed upon him.^ The sun would shine 
bright though all men were asleep at high noon, and no eyes open to see 
the glory of his beams : so a sincere heart will shine, he will labour to do 
good ; though all the world should shut their eyes, yet he will eye his 
work, and eye his God. He knows that God is totus oculus, all eye, and 
therefore he cares not though others have never an eye to observe 

> *31pn, to make a strict search and inquisition. 

* Mat. vi. and xxiii. Also it is Chrysostom's observation, that she that paints tears 
and blubberings, is worse than a wanton woman that paints to seem fair. Horn. vi. in 
Mat. 

3 Koli peecare ; Deus videt, angeli attant, take heed what thou doest, God beholds thee, 
angels observe thee, saith one. 



Rom. VIII, 32-34.] heaven on earth. 423 

him, to applaud him. Let God but secretly whisper him in the ear, 
and say, ' Well done, good and faithful servant !' and it is enough to his 
soul, enough to satisfy him, enough to cheer him, and enough to encour- 
age him in the ways and the work of his God. 

[2.] The second distinction. He labours to get up to the very top 
of holiness ; he labours to live up to his oivn principles. He cannot 
be satisfied with so much grace as will bring him to glory, but he labours 
to be high in grace, that he may be high in glory: Philip, iii. 11, * I de- 
sire if by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead, 
that is, to that perfection that the dead shall attain to in the morning 
of the resurrection.^ Verily, that man is ripe for heaven who counts it 
his greatest happiness to be high in holiness ; that man shall never be 
low in heaven, a door-keeper in heaven, that cannot be satisfied till he 
be got up to the very top of Jacob's ladder, till he hath attained to the 
highest perfection in grace and holiness. Ps. xlv. 13, * The king's 
daughter is all glorious within ; her clothing is of wrought gold.' Her 
inward principles are all glorious, and her outward practice echoes to 
her inward principles : ' her clothing is of wrought gold.' 

It was the honour and glory of Joshua and Caleb, that they followed 
the Lord fully. Num. xiv. 24, that is, they lived up to their own princi- 
ples. So those virgins in Rev. xiv. 4, 5, that were without spot before 
the throne of God, they followed the Lamb wheresoever he went, that 
is, they lived up to their profession ; there was a sweet harmony be- 
twixt their principles and practices. And thus the apostles lived : 2 
Cor. i. 12, 'For our rejoicing is this, the testimony of our conscience, 
that in simplicity and godly sincerity, not with fleshly wisdom, but by 
the grace of God, we had our conversation in the world, and more 
abundantly to you-wards.' 1 Thes. ii. 10, ' Ye are witnesses, and God 
also, how holily, and justly, and unblameably, we behaved ourselves 
among you that believe.' Thus we see these worthies living up to 
their own principles.^ Blessed Bradford and Bucer lived so up to their 
principles, that their friends could not sufficiently praise them, nor their 
ibes find anything justly to fasten on them. 

Believers know, 

(1.) That their living up to their own principles, doth best evidence 
Christ living in them, and their union with him, Gal, ii. 20. 

(2.) They know that it is not their profession, but living up to their 
principles, that will effectually stop the mouths, and convince the 
consciences of vain men : 1 Peter ii. 15, ' For so is the will of God, that 
by well-doing,' that is, by living up to your own principles, ' you may 
put to silence the ignorance of foolish men.' There is no such way in 
the world to still and silence wicked men, to make them dumb and speech- 
less, to muzzle and tie up their mouths, as the Greek word notes, <pt(ioZv, as 
by living up to your own principles. The lives of men convince more 
strongly than their words ; the tongue persuades, but the life com- 
mands. 

(3.) They know by living up to their principles, they cast a general 

< < * He cannot be satisfied with so much grace as will keep him from dropping into hell ; 
Dut he must have so much grace as will make him shine gloriously in heaven. 

* Vivimua prceceptis, non factis, we live by precepts, not by deeds ; legibut Dei, rum 
exemplis hominum, by the laws of God, not by the examples of men. 



424 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

glory upon Christ and his ways. This makes Christ and his ways to be 
well thought on and well spoke on, Mat v. IG ; 1 Peter ii. 11, 12 ; 2 
Peter i. 5-13. 

(4.) They know that the ready way, the only way to get and keep 
assurance, joy, peace, &c., is to live up to their principles. 

(5.) They know that by living below their own principles, or contrary 
to their own principles, they do but gratify Satan, and provoke wicked 
men to blaspheme that worthy name by which they are called, they 
know that by their not living up to their own principles they do but 
multiply their own fears and doubts, and put a sword into the hand of 
conscience, and make sad work for future repentance. 

Now these and such like considerations do exceedingly stir and pro- 
voke believers to labour with all their might to live up to their own 
principles, to get to the very top of holiness, to be more and more 
a-pressing towards the mark, and to think that nothing is done till they 
have attained the highest perfections that are attainable in this life. 
It is true, many hypocrites may go up some rounds of Jacob's ladder, 
such as make for their profit, pleasure, applause, and yet tumble down 
at last to the bottom of hell, as Judas and others have done. Hypocrites 
do not look, nor like, nor love to come up to the top of Jacob's ladder. Gen. 
xxviii. 12, to the top of holiness, as you may see in the Scribes and 
Pharisees, and all other hypocrites that the Scripture speaks of/ 

[3.] The third distinction. It is their greatest desire and endeavour 
that sin may he cured, ratfier than covered. Sin most afflicts a gracious 
soul. David cries out, not Peril, but Peccavi, not I am undone, but I 
have done foolishly, Ps. li. 3. Daniel complains not, we are reproached 
and oppressed, but w« have rebelled, Dan. ix. 5. Paul cries not out of 
his persecutors, but of the law in his members rebelling against the 
law of his mind, Rom. vii. 23. A gracious soul grieves more that God 
by his sin is grieved and dishonoured, than that for it he is afflicted 
and chastened. 

The hart feeling within her the operation of the serpent's poison, 
runs from the thorns and thickets, and runs over the green and pleasant 
pastures, that she may drink of the fountain and be cured.* So gracious 
souls, being sensible of the poison and venom of sin, runs from the 
creatures, that are but as thorns and thickets, and runs over their own 
duties and righteousness, which are but as pleasant pastures, to come 
to Christ the fountain of life, that they may drink of those waters of 
consolation, of those wells of salvation that be in him, and cast up and 
cast out their spiritual poison, and be cured for ever. Believers know 
that their sins do most pierce and grieve the Lord, they lie hardest and 
heaviest upon his heart, and are most obvious to his eye, Amos ii. 18. 
The sin of Judah is written with a pen of iron, and with the point of a 
diamond, Jer. xvii. 1 ; their sins are against beams of strongest light, 

* James ii. 7. The very heathen, as Salvian observes, did thus reproach Christians 
that walked contrary to their principles. Where is that good law which they do believe ? 
They read and hear the holy Scriptures, and yet are drunk and unclean ; they follow 
Christ, and yet disobey Christ ; they profess a holy law, and yet do lead impure lives. 

* If a snake should sting thy dearly beloved spouse to death, wouldst thou preserve it 
alive, warm it at the fire, hug it in thy bosom, and not rather stab it with a thousand 
wounds ? You are wise, and know how to apply it. 



EOM. VIII. 32-34.] HEAVEN ON EARTH. 425 

they are against the bowels of tenderest mercy, they are against the 
manifestations of greatest love, they are against the nearest and dearest 
relations, they are against the choicest and highest expectations ; and 
this makes believing souls cry out. Oh, a cure. Lord ! a cure, Lord ! Oh 
give me purging grace, give me purging grace ; though I should never 
taste of pardoning mercy, yet give me purging grace.^ 

It was a notable speech of Cosmus, duke of Florence, ' I have read,' 
saith he, ' that I must forgive my enemies, but never that I must for- 
give my friends.' The sins of God's friends, of God's people, provoke 
him most, and sad him most, and this makes them sigh and groan it 
out, ' Who shall deliver us from this body of death ?' Rom. vii. 24. Oh ! 
but now wicked men labour, not that sin may be cured, but only that 
sin might be covered, Hosea vil 10-16; and that the consequents of 
sin, viz., affliction and the stinging of conscience, may be removed, as 
you may see in Cain, Saul, Judas, and divers others : ' Hosea v. 14, 15, 
* In their affliction they will seek me early,' saith God ; they will then 
seek to be rid of their affliction, but not to be rid of their sins that hath 
brought down the affliction upon them. Like the patient that would 
fain be rid of his pain and torment, under which he groans, but cares 
not to be rid of those evil habits that have brought the pain and tor- 
ment upon him. Ps. Ixxviii. 34-37, ' When he slew them, then they 
sought him ; and they returned and inquired early after God : and they 
remembered that God was their rock, and the high God their Redeemer. 
Nevertheless they did flatter him with their mouth, and they lied unto 
him with their tongues. For their heart was not upright with him, 
neither were they stedfast in his covenant.'^ In these words you see 
plainly, that these people are very early and earnest in seeking God, 
to take off his hand, to remove the judgments that were upon them, 
but not that God would cure them of those sins that provoked him to 
draw his sword, and to make it drunk with their blood ; for, notwith- 
standing the sad slaughters that divine justice had made among them, 
they did but flatter and lie, and play the hypocrites with God ; they 
would fain be rid of their sufferings, but did not care to be rid of their 
sins. Ah ! but a gracious soul cries out, Lord, do but take away my sins, 
and it will satisfy me and cheer me, though thou shouldst never take 
off thy heavy hand. A true Nathanael sighs it out under his greatest 
affliction, as that good man did, A me, 7ne salva domine, deliver me, 
O Lord, from that evil man myself.' No burden to the burden of sin. 
Lord I says the believing soul ; deliver me from my inward burden, and 
lay upon me what outward burden thou pleasest. 

(4.) The fourth distinction. Are not your souls taken loith Christ 
as chief? is he not in your eye the chief est of ten thousand ? is he not 
altogether lovely ? Cant. v. 10, 16. Yes, have you any in heaven but he, 
and is there any on earth that you desire in comparison of him ? Prov. 

' "When Brutus went to stab Julius Csesar, he cried out, What, thou my son Brutus, 
&c. [The memorable El tu quoque, &c — G.] So may God well cry out, What, thou 
my son ! What, wilt thou stab me with thy sins ? is it not enough that others stab my 
honour ? but wilt thou, my son ? 

• Sin doth ill in the eye, worse in the tongue, worser in the heart, but worst of all in 
the life. Ah, England, England, as face answers face, so doth thy carriage towards God 
answer the carriage of these people, whoso baseness and falseness God hath put upoii 
record to this very day, &c. ' Augustine, Confessions. — G. 



426 HEAVEN ON EAKTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34). 

iii. 1 5 ; Ps. Ixxiii. 25, 26 ; Philip, iii. 7, 8. No. Do not you lift up Jesus 
Christ as high as God the Father lifts him? God the Father lifts 
up Christ above all principalities and powers, Eph. i. 21, Philip, ii. 9 ; he 
lifts up Christ above all your duties, above all your privileges, above all 
your mercies, above all your graces, above all your contentments, above 
all your enjoyments ; do not you thus lift up Jesus Christ 1 Yes.^ As 
he is the Father's chiefest jewel, so he is your choicest jewel, is he not? 
Yes. Verily none can lift up Christ as chief, unless Christ have their 
hearts, and they dearly love him, and believe in him, for Christ is only 
precious to them that believe, 1 Peter ii. 7. Luther had rather be in 
hell with Christ, than in heaven without him ; is not that the frame of 
thy heart ? Yes. Why then dost thou say thou hast no grace, thou 
hast no Christ. Surely none but those that have union with Christ, 
and that shall eternally reign with Christ, can set such a high price 
upon the person of Christ. The true believer, aTYiat Christum propter 
Christum, loves Christ for Christ ; he loves Christ for his personal 
excellencies, Cant. v. J 0-1 6.^ . 

What Alexander said of his two friends, is applicable to many in our 
day ; says he, 'Haephestion loves me as I am Alexander, but Craterus 
loves me as I am King Alexander.'* One loved him for his person, the 
other for the benefits he received by him. So some Nathanaels there 
be that love Christ for his person, for his personal excellenc}', for his 
personal beauty, for his personal glory ; they see those perfections of 
grace and holiness in Christ, that would render him very lovely and 
desirable in their eyes, though they should never get a kingdom, a 
crown by it.* But most cif those that bear any love and good-will to 
Christ, do it only in respect of the benefits they receive by him. 

It was Augustine's complaint of old, vix deligitur Jesus propter 
Jesum, that scarce any love Christ but for his rewards. Few follow 
him for love, but for loaves, John vi. 26 ; few follow him for his in^ 
ward excellencies, many follow him for their outward advantages ; few 
follow him that they may be made good by him, but many follow him 
that they may be great by him. Certainly, you are the bosom friends 
of Christ, you are in the very heart of Christ, who prize Christ above 
all, who lift up Jesus Christ as high as God the Father lifts him, and 
that because of his rich anointings, and because all his garments smell 
of myrrh, aloes, and cassia, Ps. xlv. 6-8. This is a work too high and 
too hard, too great and too noble, for all that are not new-born, that 
are not twice born, that are not of the blood-royal, that are not par- 
takers of the divine nature. 

[5.] The fifth distinction. Are not your greatest and your hottest 
conflicts against inward pollutions, against those secret sins that are 
only obvious to the eye of God and your oivn souls .?* The light of 
nature's education, and some common convictions of the Spirit, may put 

' ' None but Christ, none but Christ !' cries the martyr. [Sanders ? — G.] 

* Amat Deus, non aliunde hoc hahet, sed ipse est unde amat — Augustine. 
' See Index under Hsephestion. — G. 

* When one asked Gate's daughter why she would not marry again, she being young 
when her husband died, answered. Because she could not find a man that loved her 
more than her goods. Few there are that love Christ more than his goods, &c. 

. * It was a good prayer of him that said, Lord, Libera me a malo homine, a meipso. [Aug- 
ustine, as before.— G.] 



Rom. VIII 32-34.] heaven on earth. 427 

men upon combating with those sins that are obvious to every eye, but 
it must be a supernatural power and principle that puts men upon con- 
flicting with the inward motions and secret operations of sin, Rom. vii. 
23. The apostle complains of a law in his members warring against 
the law of his mind. The war was within doors, the fight was inward. 
The apostle was deeply engaged against a law within him, which made 
him sigh it out, ' O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from 
this body of death f So David cries out, ' Who can understand his 
errors ? cleanse thou me from secret faults,' Ps. xix. 12. So Hezekiah 
humbled himself for the pride of his heart, or for the lifting up of his 
heart, as the Hebrew hath it, 2 Chron. xxxii. 26 [sin u"? mil]. His 
recovery from sickness, his victories over his enemies, and his rich 
treasures, lifted up his heart. Oh ! but for those outward risings and 
vauntings of heart Hezekiah humbles himself, he abases and lays him- 
self low before the Lord. A sincere heart weeps and laments bitterly 
over those secret and inward corruptions that others will scarce acknow- 
ledge to be sins. Many a man there is that bleeds inwardly, and dies 
for ever ; many a soul is. eternally slain by the inward workings of sin, 
and he sees it not, he knows it not, till it be too late.* 

Oh ! but a true Nathanael mourns over the inward motions and first 
risings of sin in his soul, and so prevents an eternal danger. Upon 
every stirring of sin in the soul the believer cries out, O Lord, help; O 
Lord, undertake for me ; oh dash these brats of Babylon in pieces ; oh stifle 
the first motions of sin, that they may never conceive and bring forth, 
to the wounding of two at once, thy honour and my own conscience ! 

[6.] The sixth distinction. Are you itwt subject to ChHst as a head ? 
Yes ; devils and wicked men are subject to Christ as a Lord, but those 
that are by faith united to him, and that have a spiritual interest in 
him, are subject to him as a head. 

I shall open this particular thus unto you. 

First, The members are willingly and sweetly subject to the head ; 
their subjection is voluntary, not compulsory .^ It is so with a believing 
soul : Ps. xxvii. 8, ' When thou saidst, Seek ye my face, my heart said 
unto thee, Thy face. Lord, will I seek.' So Ps. ex. 3, ' Thy people shall 
be willing in the day of thy power, in the beauties of holiness.' So Paul 
cries out, ' What wilt thou have me to do V Acts ix. 6, and professes 
that he is willing not to be bound only, but also to die at Jerusalem 
for the name of Christ, Acts xxi. 13. A gracious soul is in some mea- 
sure naturalised to the work of Christ, and Christ's work is in some 
measure naturalised to the souL 

Secondly, The members are subject to the head universally, they do 
all the head enjoineth f so the real members of Christ do in sincerity 
endeavour universally to subject to all that Christ their head requires, 
without any exception or reservation : Luke i. 5, 6, ' Zacharias and 
Elizabeth walked in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord 

* The Persian kings reign powerfully, and yet are seldom seen in public. Secret sins 
reign in many men's souls powerfully and dangerously, when least apparently. 

* Every true Nathanael's motto is. Omnia ex voluntate Dei, all must be as God will 
have it. 

* Their obedience is universal, (1.) in respect of the act of eschewing all evil, doing all 
good ; (2.) in respect of the rule, the whole word of God ; (3.) in respect of their general 
and particular calling. 



428 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [RoM. VIII. 32-34. 

l)lamele.ss.' • They walked without halting or halving of it with God ; 
they fell in with every part and point of God's revealed will, without 
prejudice or partiality, without tilting the balance on one side or another: 
Acts xiii. 22, ' I have found David the son of Jesse a man after my own 
heart, which shall fulfil all my will,' or rather ' all my wills,' as the 
Greek hath it [^sX^/tara], to note the universality and sincerity of his 
obedience. 

Thirdly, The members are subject to the head constantly, unwea- 
ried ly. The members are never weary of obeying the head ; they obey 
in all places, cases, and times ; so are the real members of Christ : Acts 
xxiv. 16, ' And herein do I exercise myself, to have always a conscience 
void of offence toward God and toward men.'' I use all diligence, skill, 
cunning, and conscience, to be sincere and inoffensive in all my motions 
and actions towards God and towards men. So David, Ps. cxix. 112, 
* I have inclined my heart' (or rather, as the Hebrew word signifies, 
' I have stretched out my heart,' as a man would do a piece of parch- 
ment) ' to do thy statutes' (the Hebrew word signifies to do accurately, 
exactly, perfectly) ' alway, even unto the end.'* A gracious soul is not 
like a deceitful bow, nor like the morning dew, but he is like the sun, 
that rejoiceth to nm his race ; he is like the stone in Thracia, that 
neither burneth in the fire nor sinketh in the water.' Now tell me, 
pray tell me, O you doubting souls, whether you do not, 

(].) Labour in all duties and services to approve your hearts to God? 

(2.) Whether you do not endeavour to get up to the very top of 
holiness, and to live up to your own principles ? 

(3.) Whether it be not your greatest desire and endeavour that sin 
may be cured rather than covered ? 

(4.) Whether you are not taken with Christ as chief? whether you 
do not, in vour judgments and affections, lift up Christ above all, as 
God the Father doth? 

(5.) Whether your greatest and hottest conflicts and combats be not 
against inward pollutions, against those secret stirrings and operations 
of sin, which are only obvious to the eye of God and your own souls? 

(6.) Whether you do not, in respect of the general bent and frame 
of your hearts, subject to Christ as your head ? 

[1.] Freely and sweetly. 

[2.] Universally, in one thing as well as another, without any ex- 
ception or reservation. 

[3.] Constantly and unwearily. Yes ; we do these things ; we should 
belie the grace of God if we should say otherwise. These things the 
Lord hath wrought in us and for us, Isa. xxvi. 12. Well, then, 
know, 

First, That your estate is good ; you have certainly a blessed in- 
terest in the Lord Jesus. None can do these things but souls that have 
union with Christ, that are interested in Christ, that are acted by the 
peculiar and special influences of Christ, and that are highly beloved 
of Christ. Verily, these are such flowers of paradise that cannot be 
gathered in nature's garden ; they are pearls of that price that God 

* Sja^avTs;, always, or throughout in all cases, or at all times. 

» niB^*? ^s"? ^JT-Da, from HK^. » Asbestos.— Q. 



Rom, VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 429 

bestows upon none but those that are the price of Christ's blood. All 
the men in the world cannot prove by the Scripture that these 
jewels can be found in any men's breasts but in theirs that have 
union and communion with Christ, and that shall reign for ever with 
Christ.^ 

SecoTidly, Know that it is no iniquity, but rather your duty, for you 
to suck sweetness out of these honeycombs, and to look upon these 
things as infallible pledges and evidences of divine favour, and of your 
everlasting happiness and blessedness. Some there be that make the 
witness of the Spirit, of which I shall, towards the close of this discourse, 
speak at large, the only evidence of our interest in Christ, and deny all 
other evidences from the fruit of the Spirit f but this is to deny the 
fruit, growing upon the tree, to be an evidence that the tree is alive, 
whereas all know, that the fruit growing upon the tree is an infallible 
and undeniable evidence that there is life in the tree. Certainly it is 
one thing to judge by our graces, and another thing to rest upon our 
graces, or to put trust in our graces. When one argues from the beams 
of the sun, that there is a sun, one would think that the most cavilling 
spirit in the world should lie quiet and still. 

(7.) The seventh vneans to get a well-grounded assurance of your ever- 
lasting happiness and blessedness is, to grow and increase more and 
'more in grace. 2 Pet. i. 5-11, ' Add to your faith, virtue; and to virtue, 
knowledge, &c. For so an entrance shall be ministered unto you abun- 
dantly into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.' 
By entrance into the everlasting kingdom of Christ, is not meant a 
local entrance into heaven ; for heaven is nowhere called the kingdom 
of Christ, but the Father's kingdom. The opposition, ver. 9, sheweth 
clearly that it is meant of assurance. Now, the" way to full assurance is 
by adding grace to grace. The Greek word that is here rendered ' add,' 
hath a greater emphasis ; it signifies to Hnk our graces together, as 
virgins in a dance do link their hands together.' Oh ! we must be still 
a-joining grace to grace, we must still be adding one grace to another, 
we must still be a-leading up the dance of graces, (ireat measures of 
grace carry with them great evidence of truth, little measures carry 
with them but little evidence ; great measures of grace carry with them 
the greatest evidence of the soul's union and communion with Christ ; 
and the more evident your union and communion with Christ is, the 
more clear and full will your assurance be.* 

Great measures of grace carry with them the greatest and clearest 
evidences of the glorious indwellings of the Spirit in you, and the more 
you are persuaded of the real indwelUngs of the Spirit in you, the 

1 If these things could be found in the most shining hypocrites, or any others but 
real saints, they could not possibly be either a first or second evidence. Though a man 
could see them in the light of the Spirit, this is carefully to be observed against those 
that hold these good second evidences, &c. 

2 We have cause enough to keep off doubtings and distress of spirit upon the bare sight 
of our evidences. This, coaiplaining, cavilling souls will not understand. 

3 Though our graces be our best jewels, yet they are imperfect, and do not give out 
their full lustre; they are like the moon, which, when it shineth brightest, hath a dark 
spot. Therefore, we should add still grace to grace, iTi^^^o^ny^raTi. 

* {If moral virtue, saith Plato, could be seen with mortal eyes, it would soon draw all 
hearts to itself. Oh how muclj the more should our hearts be drawn out after tlie higheat 
measures of grace 1 the least drain of grace being more worth than all moral virtue. 



430 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. "VIII. 32-34. 

higher will your assurance rise. Great measures of grace will be a fire 
that will consume and burn up the dross, the stubble, the fears and 
doubts that perplex the soul, and that cause darkness to surroimd the 
souL Now, the more you are rid of your fears, doubts, and darkness, 
the more easily, and the more effectually will your hearts be persuaded 
that the thoughts of God towards you are thoughts of love ; that you are 
precious in his eyes, and that he will rejoice over you, to do you good 
for ever, Jer. xxxii. 41, &c. 

(8.) The eigMh means to gain a well-grounded assurance of your ever- 
lasting happiness and blessedness is, to take your heaHs when they are 
in tlie best and most sjpiritual frame and temper God-wards, heaven- 
wards, and holiness-wards. Times of temptation and desertion, 
&c., are praying times, hearing times, mourning times, and believing 
times ; but they are not trying times, they are not seasonable times 
for doubting souls to set themselves about so great and so solemn a 
work as that is, of searching and examining how things stand, and 
are like to stand, between God and them for ever, 2 Cor. xiii. 5. 

Be diligent and constant, be studious and conscientious in observing 
the frame and temper of your own hearts, and when you find them most 
plain, most melting, most yielding, most tender and humble, most 
sweetly raised, and most divinely composed, then, oh then, is the time 
to single out the most convenient place where thou mayest with greatest 
freedom open thy bosom to God, and plead with him as for thy life, 
that he would shew thee how things stand between him and thee, and 
how it must fare with thy soul for ever.' And when thou hast thus set 
thyself before God, and opened thy bosom to God, then wisely observe 
what report God and thy own renewed conscience do make concerning 
thy eternal condition : ' I will hear what God the Lord will speak,' 
saith David ; ' for he will speak peace unto his people, and they shall 
not return to folly,' so the Hebrew may be read.^ Oh ! so must thou 
stand still, when thou hast sincerely unbowelled thyself before the 
Lord, and listen and hearken what God will say unto thee. Surely 
he will speak peace unto thee, he will say, * Son, be of good cheer, 
thy sins be forgiven thee,' thy heart is upright with me ; m}"- soul is 
set upon thee ; I have already blessed thee, and I will hereafter glorify 
thee. 

I have read of one who was kept from destroying of himself, — being 
much tempted by Satan thereunto, — by remembering that there was a 
time when he solemnly set himself in prayer and self-examination 
before the Lord, and made a diligent inquiry into his spiritual condi- 
tion ; and in the close of that work, it was evidenced to him that his 
heart was upright with God, and this kept him from laying of violent 
hands upon himself Oh ! a wise and serious observing what that testi- 
mony is that God, conscience, and the word gives in upon solemn 
prayer and self-examination may beget strong consolation, and support 
the soul under the greatest affliction, and strengthen the soul against 

• Our hearts are ponderous, Multum trahit de terra, de came multum, therefore we 
had need take them when in the best temper, &c. 

2 Ps. Ixxxv. 8, 9, n^D3b 131B'* ^N1. 

^ A good conscience is mille testes, a thousand witnesses ; therefore make much of its 
testimony. 



KOM. VIII. 32-34.] HEAVEN ON EARTH. 431 

the most violent temptations, and make the soul look and long for the 
day of dissolution, as princes do for their day of coronation. 

(9.) The ninth means to gain a -well-grounded assurance is, to make 
a diligent inquiry whether thou hast those things that do accom- 
pany eternal salvation : Heb. vi. 9, ' But, beloved, we are persuaded 
better things of you, and things that accompany salvation ;' or as it 
is in the Greek, £%o>£va, ' that have salvation,' as it were in the very 
bowels of them, that comprehend salvation and that touch upon salva- 
tion. 

Oh ! beloved, if you have those choice things that accompany salva- 
tion, that comprehend salvation, you may be abundantly assured of 
your salvation. , 

But you may say to me, 

What are those things that accompany salvation ? 
To this question I shall give this answer, viz., that there are seven 
special things that accompany salvation, and they are these : 

1, Knowledge; % Faith; S, Repentance ; 4i, Obedience ; 5, Love ; 
6, Prayer ; 7, Perseverance. 

(1.) Knowledge is one of those special things that accompanies salva- 
tion : John xvii. 3, ' And this is life eternal, that they may know thee, 
the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent.' ' Divine 
knowledge is the beginning of eternal life ; it is a spark of glory, it 
works life in the soul, it is a taste and pledge of eterual life : 1 John 
V. 20, ' And we know that the Son of God is come, and hath given us 
an understanding, that we may know him that is true : and we are in 
him that is true, even in his Son Jesus Christ; this is the true God, and 
eternal life.' 2 Peter i. 3, ' According as his divine power hath given unto 
us all things that pertain unto life and godliness, through the knowledge 
of him that hath called us to glory and virtue.'* What this knowledge 
is that accompanies salvation, I shall shew you anon. 

(2.) Secondly, Faith is another of those special things that accom- 
panies salvation : 2 Thes. ii. 13, ' But we are bound to give thanks 
alway to God for you, brethren beloved of the Lord, because God hath 
from the beginning cliosen you to salvation, through sanctification of 
the Spirit, and belief of the truth.' ^ 1 Peter i. 5, ' You who are kept 
by the power of God through faith unto salvation.' Heb. x. 39, ' But 
we are not of them who draw back to perdition, but of them that believe 
to the saving of the soul' John iii. 14-16, * And as Moses lifted up the 
serpent in the wilderness, even so mu.st the Son of man be lifted up, 
that whosoever beheveth in him should not perish, but have everlasting 
life.' Ver. 36, ' He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life.' 
Chap. V. 24, ' Verily, verily, I say unto you, he that heareth my word, 
and believeth on him that sent me, hath everlasting life, and shall not 
come into condemnation, but is passed from death unto life.' Chap. 
VL 40, ' And this is the will of him that sent me, that every one that 
seeth the Son, and believeth on him, may have everlasting life, and I 

1 Vide [John] Piscator on the words. [Com. on Bib. 4 vols, folio. 1643. — G.] 

* It is called eternal life, Quia radix et origo vitce ; in legendis libris non quceramvs 

leientiam, sed saporem. — Bernard. In reading books, let ua not look so much for science 

as a slivouriness of the truth upon our own hearts. 
' Vide Parous, Estius, and Gerhard on the text. 



432 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34!. 

will raise him up at the last day.' Ver. 47, ' Verily, verily, I say unto 
you, he that believeth on me hath everlasting life." 

(3.) Thirdly, Repentance is another of those choice things that accom- 
panies salvation : 2 Cor. vii. 10, 'For godly sorrow worketh repentance 
to salvation, not to be repented of; but the soitow of the world worketh 
death.' Jer. iv. 14, ' O Jerusalem, wash thy heart from wickedness, that 
thou mayest be saved.' Acts xi. 18, 'When they heard these things, they 
held their peace, and gloriKed God, saying, Then hath God also to the 
Gentiles granted repentance unto life.' Mat. xviii. 3, ' And Jesus said, 
Verily I say unto you, except ye be converted, and become as little chil- 
dren,ye shall notenter into the kingdom of heaven.' Acts iii. 19, 'Repent 
ye, therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out, when 
the time of refreshing shall come from the presence of the Lord.'* 

(4.) Fourthly, Obedience is another of those precious things that 
accompanies salvation. Heb. v. 9, 'And being made perfect,' speaking 
of Christ, ' he became the author of eternal salvatiim unto all them that 
obey him.' Ps. 1. 23, ' Whoso offereth praise, glorifieth me ; and to him 
that ordereth his conversation aright, will I declare the salvation of 
God.' 

(5.) Fifthly, Love is another of those singular things that accom- 
panies salvation. 2 Tim. iv. 8, ' Henceforth there is laid up for me a 
crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall give 
me at that day ; and not to me only, but unto them also that love hia 
appearing.'^ James ii. 5, ' Hearken, my beloved brethren, hath not God 
chosen the poor of this world to be rich in faith, and heirs of the king- 
dom, which he hath promised to them that love him ?' 1 Cor. ii. 9, ' It 
is written, eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither hath it entered into 
the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that 
love him.' James i. 12, 'Blessed is the man thatendureth temptation, 
for when he is tried he shall receive a crown of life, which the Lord hath 
promised to them that love him.' Mat. xix. 28, ' And Jesus said unto 
them, Verily I say unto you, that ye which have followed me in the 
regeneration, when the Son of man shall sit in the throne of his glory, 
ye shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. 
And every one that hath forsaken houses, or brethren, or sisters, or 
father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands for my name's sake, shall 
receive an hundred fold, and shall inherit everlasting life.' The whole 
is as if Christ had said, Whosoever shall shew love to me, this way or 
that, in one thing or another, out of respect to my name, to my honour, 
mercy shall be his portion here, and glory shall be his portion hereafter.* 

1 Mark xvi. 16 ; Acts xvi. 81 ; Eom. x. 9 ; Isa. xlv. 22 ; Philip, ii. 8 ; John.xj. 25, 26 ; 
1 John V. 10. All these and many more scriptures speak out the same truth. This 
double asseveration or protestation is used only in matters of weight ; and unhappy are 
we that we cannot believe without them. 

* The very word repent was very displeasing to Luther till his conversion, but after- 
ward he took delight in the work, Pcenitcns depcccato dolet et de dolore gandt, to sorrow 
for his sin, and then rejoice in his sorrow. Vide B. Down, of Justification, lib. vii. cap. 7. 
[That is, George Downaine, Bishop of Derry : Treatise of Justification, 1623. — G.] 

3 Dcus nihil coronal nisi dona sua. — Augustine. When God crowneth us, he doth but 
crown his own gifts in us. 

* The word crotvn notes to us, (1.) the perpetuity of that life the apostle speaks of, for 
a crown hath neither beginning nor ending ; (2.) it notes plenty ; the crown fetches a 
compass on every side ; (3.) it notes dignity ; (4.) it notes majesty. Eternal lifo is a 



1 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 433 

(6.) Sixthly, Prayer is another of those sweet things that accom- 
panies salvation. Rom. x. 10, 13, ' For with the heart man believeth 
unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. 
For whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved.' Acts 
iL 21, *And it shall come to pass, that whovsoever shall call on the name 
of the Lord shall be saved.' That is, saith one, he shall be certainly 
sealed up to salvation. Or a.s another saith. He that hath this grace of 
prayer, it is an evident sign and assurance to him, that he shall be 
saved. Therefore to have grace to pray, is a better and a greater mercy 
than to have gifts to prophesy. Mat. vii. 22. Praying souls shall find 
the gates of heaven open to them, when prophesying souls shall find 
them shut against them. 

(7.) Seventhly and lastly, 'perseverance is another of those prime 
things that accompanies salvation. Mat. x. 22, * And ye shall be hated 
of all men for my name's sake, but he that endureth to the end, the 
same shall be saved." Chap. xxiv. 12, 13, 'And because iniquity shall 
abound, the love of many shall wax cold ; but he that endureth unto the 
end, the same shall be saved.' Rev. ii. 10, ' Fear none of those things 
which thou shalt suffer ; behold the devil shall cast some of you into 
prison, that ye may be tried, and ye shall have tribulation ten days. 
Be thou faithful unto the death, and I willgivethee a crown of life.' Chap. 
ilL 5, ' He that overcometh, the same shall be clothed in white raiment, 
and I will not blot out his name out of the book of life, but I will con- 
fess his name before my Father, and before his angels. To him that 
overcometh, will I grant to sit with me in my throne, as I also overcame, 
and am set down with my Father in his throne.'* 

Thus you see these seven choice things that accompany salvation. 
But for your further and fuller edification, satisfaction, confirmation, and 
consolation, it will be very necessary that I shew you, 

(1.) What knowledge that is that accompanies salvation, that borders, 
that touches upon salvation. 

(2.) What faith that is that accompanies salvation. 

(3.) What repentance that is that accompanies salvation. 

(4.) What obedience that is that accompanies salvation. 

(5.) What love that is that accompanies salvation. 

(6.) What prayer that is that accompanies salvation. 

(7.) What perseverance that is that accompanies salvation. 

I hope when I have fully opened these precious things to you, that 
you will be able to sit down much satisfied and cheered in a holy con- 
fidence and blessed assurance of your everlasting well-being. 

I shall begin with the first, and shew you what that knowledge is 
that accompanies salvation, that comprehends salvation, that touches 
upon salvation ; and that I shall open in these following particulars : 

(1.) The first property. That knowledge that accompanies salvation 
is a working knowledge, an operative knowledge : 2 Cor. iv. 6, ' God, 
who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, hath shined in our 

coronation day ; it notes all joys, all delights ; in a word, it notes all good, it notes all 
glory. 

^ The same words you have in Mark xiii. 13. 

* A| crown without cares, fears, co-rivals, envy, end. God turns the crown of thorns 
into a crown of glory : Pericula non respicit rr.artyr, coronat respicit. — Basil. 

VOL. n. E e 



434- HEAVEN ON EARTH. [RoM. VIII. 32-34; 

hearts, to give us the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the 
face of Jesus Christ.' Divine light reaches the heart as well as the head.* 
The beams of divine light shining in upon the soul through the glorious 
face of Christ are very working ; they warm the heart, they affect the 
heart, they new-mould the heart. Divine knowledge masters the heart, 
it guides the heart, it governs the heart, it sustains the heart, it re- 
lieves the heart : Rom. vi. 6, ' We know that our old man is crucified 
with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we 
should not serve sin.'* Divine knowledge puts a man upon crucifying 
of sin ; it keeps a man from being a servant, a slave to sin, which no 
other knowledge can do. Under all other knowledge, men remain ser- 
vants to their lusts, and are taken prisoners by Satan at his will. No 
knowledge lifts a man up above his lusts but that which accompanies sal- 
vation. The wisest philosophers and the greatest doctors, as Socrates 
and others, under all their sublime notions and rare speculations, have 
been kept in bondage by their lusts. That knowledge that accompa- 
nies salvation is operative knowledge : 1 John ii. 3, 4, 'And hereby we 
do know that we know him, if we keep his commandments. He that 
saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar, and 
the truth is not in him.'' By keeping his commandments they did 
know that they did know him ; that is, they were assured that they did 
know him. To know that we know, is to be assured that we know : 
So James iii. 17, ' But the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then 
peaceable, gentle, and easy to be entreated, full of mercy and good 
fruits, without partiality, and without hypocri.sy.' Ver. 13, ' Who is a 
wise man, and endued with knowledge amongst you ? Let him shew 
out of a good conversation his works, with meekness of .wisdom.' 
Divine knowledge fills a man full of spiritual activity ; it will make a 
man work as if he would be saved by his works, and yet it will make a 
man believe that he is saved only upon the account of free grace, Eph.ii.8. 
That knowledge that is not operative and working, will only serve to 
light souls to hell, and to double damn all that have it. Mat. xxiii. 14. 

(2.) The second property. That knowledge that accompanies salva- 
tion is transforming knowledge, it is metaTnorphosing knowledge. It 
is knowledge that transforms, that metamorphoses the soul : 2 Cor. 
iii. 18, ' But we with open face, beholding the glory of the Lord as in 
a glass, are changed into the same image, from glory to glory.' Divine 
light beating on the heart, warms it, and betters it ; it transforms and 
changes it, it moulds and fashions it into the very likeness of Christ, fiira- 

The naturalists observe,* that the pearl, by the often beating of the 
sunbeams upon it, becomes radiant ; so the often beating and shining 
of the Sun of righteousness, with his divine beams, upon the saints, 
causes them to glister and shine in holiness, righteousness, heavenly- 

> Knowledge that swims in the head only, and sinks not down into thn heart, doth no 
more good than rain in the middle region, or than the unicorn's horn in the unicorn's 
head. 

* 1 John iii. 6. Whosoever sinneth (viz. customarily, habitually, delightfully, hath 
not seen him, neither known him. 

3 He is a liar in a double respect : (1.) in that he saith he hath tliat knowledge which 
ho hath not ; (2.) in that he denies that in his works which he aflBrms in his words. 

« Cf. Pliny, Nat. Hist., lib. vs.. cap. 54-66 ; uElian Hist. Anim., ii.— G. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 435 

mindedness, humbleness, &c. Divine light casts a general beauty and 
glory upon the soul ; it transforms a man more and more into the glo- 
rious image of Christ. Look, as the child receiveth from his parents 
member for member, limb for limb, or as the paper from the press re- 
ceiveth letter for letter, the wax from the seal print for print, or as the 
face in the glass answers to the face of the man, or as indenture answers 
to indenture, so the beams of divine light and knowledge shining into 
the soul, stamp the lively image of Christ upon the soul, and make it 
put on the Lord Jesus, and resemble him to the life.' Notional know- 
ledge may make a man excellent at praising the glorious and worthy 
acts and virtues of Christ ; but that transforming knowledge that accom- 
panies salvation, will work a man divinely to imitate the glorious acts 
and virtues of Christ : 1 Peter ii. 9, ' But ye are a chosen generation, a 
royal priesthood, an holy nation, a peculiar people, that ye should shew 
forth the praises of him' (mj a^erag, the virtues of him) * who hath called 
you out of darkness into his marvellous light,' When God causes his 
divine light, his marvellous light, to shine in upon the soul, then a 
Christian will Q^ayyilXriTs) preach forth the virtues of Christ in an 
imitable practice, and till then a man, under all other knowledge, will 
remain an incarnate devil. When a beam of divine light shined from 
heaven upon Paul, ah, how did it change and metamorphose him ! How 
did it alter and transform him ! It made his rebellious soul obedient : 
Acts ix, 6, ' Lord, what wilt thou have me to do ?' ^ God bids him arise 
and go into the city, and it should be told him what he should do ; and 
he obeys the heavenly vision, chap. xxvi. 19. Divine light makes this 
lion a lamb, this persecutor a preacher, this destroyer of the saints a 
builder up of the saints, this tormenter a comforter, this monster an 
angel, this notorious blasphemer a very great admirer of God, and the 
actings of his free grace, as you may see by comparing Acts ix. and 
xxvi. together. 

So when a spark of this heavenly fire fell upon the heart of Mary- 
Magdalene, Luke vii. 36, 37, oh what a change, what a turn doth it 
make in her ! Now she loves much, and believes much, and repents 
much, and weeps much. Oh what a change did divine light make in 
Zaccheus, and in the jailor ! Verily, if thy light, thy knowledge doth 
not better thee, if it doth not change and transform thee, if, under all 
thy light and knowledge thou remainest as vile and base as ever, thy 
light, thy knowledge, thy notions, thy speculations, will be like to fire, 
not on the hearth, but in the room, that will bum the house and the 
inhabitant too ; it will be like mettle in a blind horse, that serves for 
nothing but to break the neck of the rider. That knowledge that is 
not a transforming knowledge, will torment a man at last more than 
all the devils in hell; it will be a sword to cut him, a rod to lash him, 
a serpent to bite him, a scorpion to sting him, and a vulture, a worm 
eternally gnawing him. 

When Tamberlain was in his wars, one having found and digged 

1 A father stands obliged, not only in point of honour, but also by the law of nature, 
to receive his child that bears his image ; so doth Christ to receive those that by divine 
lio'ht have his image stamped upon them, 

"a Acts ix. 3, &c. Divine light lays upon a man felix necessitas, a happy necessity of 
obeying God, &c. 



436 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34 

up a great pot of gold, brought it to him, Tamberlairi asked whether it 
had his father's stamp upon it ; but when he saw it had the Roman 
stamp, and not his father's, he would not own it. So God at last will 
own no knowledge, but that which leaves the stamp of Christ, the 
print of Christ, the image of Christ upon the heart, but that which 
changes and transforms the soul, that makes a man a, new man, 
another man than what he was before divine light shined upon him. 

(3.) The third property. That knowledge that accompanies salva- 
tion is experimental knowledge. It is knowledge that springs from a 
spiritual sense and taste of holy and heavenly things. Cant. i. 2, ' Let 
him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth, for thy love is better than 
wine.'' The spouse had experienced the sweetness of Christ's love; 
' his loves,' says she, 'is better than wine,' though wine is an excellent 
creature, a useful creature, a, comfortable and delightful creature, a 
reviving and restorative creature. And this draws out her heart, and 
makes her insatiable in longing, and very earnest in coveting, not a kiss, 
but kisses, not a little, but much of Christ. Her knowledge being ex- 
perimental, she is impatient and restless, till she was drawn into the 
nearest and highest communion and fellowship with Christ. So in 
ver. 13, 'A bundle of myrrh is my well-beloved unto me ; he shall lie 
all night betwixt my breasts.' Myrrh is marvellous sweet and savoury, 
' so is my well-beloved unto me, says the spouse ;' I have found Jesus 
Christ to be marvellous sweet and savoury to my soul. Myrrh is bitter 
to the taste, though it be sweet to the smell ; so is my well-beloved 
unto me, says the spouse.^ I have found him to be bitter and bloody 
to the old man, to the ignoble and worser part of man ; and I have 
found him to be sweet and lovely to the new man, to the regenerate 
man, to the noble part of man. I have found him to be a bitter and 
a bloody enemy to my sins, and at the same time to be a sweet and 
precious friend unto my soul.' Myrrh is of a preserving nature, it is 
hot and dry in the second degree, as the naturalists observe ; so is my 
well-beloved unto me, says the spouse. Oh ! I have found the Lord 
Jesus preserving my soul from closing with such and such temptations, 
and from falling under the power of such and such corruptions, and 
from fainting under such and such afflictions, &c.* Considerable to the 
same purpose is that of Philip, i. 9, ' And this I pray, that your love 
may abound yet more and more in knowledge, and in all judgment.* 
The Greek word that is here rendered 'judgment,' properly signifies 
sense,' not "a corporal, but a spiritual sense and taste, an inward experi- 
mental knowledge of holy and heavenly things. The apostle well knew 
that all notional and speculative knowledge would leave men on this 
side heaven, and therefore he earnestly prays that their knowledge 
might be experimental, that being the knowledge that accompanies 
salvation, that will give a man at last a possession of salvation. Verily, 
that knowledge that is only notional, speculative, and general, that is 

' *im. By loves, his (plural) loves, she means all the fruits of his love, viz. righteous* 
ness, holiness, joy, peace, assurance, &c. 

2 Ps. xlv. 8 ; Prov. vii. 17. So Pliny, lib. xii. c. 15, 16, &c. [Rather c. 83-35.— G.] 

3 Every good man hath in him two men, Rom. vii. 15-25 ; Gal. v. 17. 

* Austin thanks God that his heart and the temptation did not meet together. 
^ aiffHirii, sense. The soul hath her senses as well as the body, and they must be 
exercised, Heb. v. 14. 



Rom. VIII. 32-04.] heaven on eaeth. 437 

gathered out of books, discourses, and other outward advantages, is 
such a knowledge that will make men sit down on this side salvation, 
as it did Judas, Demas, the scribes and pharisees, &c.' Christ will at 
last shut the door of hope, of help, of consolation and salvation, upon 
all those that know much of him notionally, but nothing feelingly, as 
you may see in his shutting the door of happiness against the foolish 
virgins. Mat. xxv. 11, 12, and against those forward professors, preachers, 
and workers of miracles, Mat. vii. 22, who had much speculative know- 
ledge, but no experimental knowledge ; who had much outward 
general knowledge of Christ, but no spiritual inward acquaintance 
with Christ.^ 

A man that hath that experimental knowledge that accompanies 
salvation, will from his experience tell you, that sin is the greatest evil 
in the world, for he hath found it so, Rom. vii. ; that Christ is the one 
thing necessary, for he hath found him so, Ps. xxvii. 4 ; that the favour 
of God is better than life, for he hath found it so, Ps. Ixiii. 3 ; that par- 
doning mercy only makes a man happy, for he hath found it so, Ps-. 
xxxii. 1, 2 ; that a wounded spirit is such a burden that none can bear, 
for he hath found it so, Prov. xviii. 14 ; that an humble and a broken 
heart is an acceptable sacrifice to God, for he hath found it so; Ps. li. 17 ; 
that the promises are precious pearls, for he hath found them so, 2 Peter 
i 4 ; that the smiles of God will make up the want of any outward 
mercy, for he hath found it so, Ps. iv. 6, 7 ; that communion with God 
can only make a heaven in a believer's heart, for he hath found it so, 
Ps. xlviii. 10 ; that if the Spirit be pleased and obeyed, he will be a com- 
forter to the soul, for he hath found it so, John xvi. 7 ; but if his motions 
and laws be slighted and neglected, he will stand far off from the soul, 
he will vex and gall the soul. Lam. i. 16, Isa. Ixiii, 10, 11. Well ! souls, 
remember this, that knowledge that is not experimental will never turn 
to your account, it will only increase your guilt and torment, as it did 
the Scribes' and Pharisees'. What advantage had the men of the old 
world, by their knowing that there was an ark, or by their clambering 
about the ark, when they were shut out and drowned in the flood ! 
What doth it profit a man to see heaps of jewels and pearls, and moun- 
tains of gold and silver, when he is moneyless and penniless ? It is 
rather a torment than a comfort to know that there is a pardon for 
other malefactors, but none for me ; that there is bread for such and 
such hungry souLs, but none for me ; that there is water and wine to 
cheer, comfort, and refresh such and such, but not a sip, a drop, for me ; 
my bottle is empty, and I may die for thirst, whilst others are drinking 
at the fountain-head ; that there is houses and clothes to shelter such 
and such from colds, storms, and tempests, whilst I lie naked with 
Lazarus at Dives's door, exposed to the misery of all weathers. This 
kind of knowledge doth rather torment men than comfort them, it does 
but add fuel to the fire, and make their hell the hotter. The knowledge 
that devils and apostates have of God, Christ, and the Scriptures, &c., 
being only notional, is so far from being a comfort to them, that it is 
^ What is the scholar's knowledge of the strengtl^, riches, glories, and sweetness o^ 
far dountries, obtained by maps and books, to their knowledge that daily see and enjoy 
those things ? 

' Surgunt indoeti et caelum rapiunt, et nos cum doctrinis [nosiris, tine corde, ecce ubi volu- 
tatnur in came et sanguinel detrudimur in Gehennam. — Augustine. [Conf. b. viii. c. 8. — G.] 



438 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. YIII. 32-34. 

their greatest torment ; it is a worm that is eternally gnawing them, it 
makes them ten thousand times more miserable than otherwise they 
would be.^ They are still a-crying out, Oh that our light, our light 
were put out ! Oh that our knowledge, our knowledge were extin- 
guished ! Oh that we might but change rooms, change places with the 
heathens, with the barbarians, that never knew what we have known ! 
Oh how happy would damned devils and apostates judge themselves in 
hell, if they should escape with those dreadful stripes that shall be 
eternally laid upon the backs of fools ! Remember, reader, that a little 
heart-knowledge, a little experimental knowledge, is of greater efficacy 
and worth than the highest notions of the most acutest wits. He doth 
well that discourses of Christ, but he doth infinitely better that, by 
experimental knowledge, feeds and lives on Christ. It was not Adam's 
seeing, but his tasting, of forbidden fruit that made him miserable ; and 
it is not your seeing of Christ, but your experimental tasting of Christ, 
that will make you truly happy. As no knowledge will save but what 
is experimental, so let no knowledge satisfy you but what is experi- 
mental, Ps. xxxiv, 8. 

(4.) The fourth 'property. That knowledge that accompanies salva- 
tion is a heart-affecting knowledge. It affects the heart with Christ 
and all spiritual things. Oh, it doth wonderfully endear Christ and the 
things of Christ to the soul : Cant. ii. 5, ' Stay me with flagons, and 
comfort me with apples, for I am sick of love.' Oh, saith the spouse, 
my heart is taken with Christ, it is raised and ravished with his love ; 
my soul is burning, my soul is beating towards Christ. Oh, none but 
Christ, none but Christ ! I cannot live in myself, I cannot live in my 
duties, I cannot live in external privileges, I cannot live in outward 
mercies, I cannot live in common providences ; I can live only in Christ, 
who is my life, my love, my joy, my crown, my all in alL^ Oh, the 
hearing of Christ affects me, the seeing of Christ affects me, the taste of 
Christ affects me, the glimmerings of Christ affects me ; the more I 
come to know him in his natures, in his names, in his offices, in his 
discoveries, in his appearances, in his beauties, the more I find my 
heart and affections to prize Christ, to run after Christ, to be affected 
with Christ, and to be wonderfully endeared to Christ, Cant. v. 10. 
* He is white and ruddy, the chiefest of ten thousand,' Ps. Ixxiii. 25, 26. 
The knowledge that she had of Christ did so affect and endear her heart 
to Christ, that she cannot but make use of all her rhetoric to set forth 
Christ in the most lovely and lively colours. Oal. vi. 14, 'God forbid 
that I should glory in anything, save in Christ Jesus.' Oh, God 
forbid that my heart should be affected or taken with anything in 
comparison of Christ. The more I know him, the more I like him ; 
the more I know him, the more I love him ; the more I know him, the 
more I desire him ; the more I know him, the more my heart is knit 
unto him. His beauty is taking, his love is ravishing, his goodness is 
drawing, his manifestations are enticing, and his person is enamouring. 
His lovely looks please me, his pleasant voice delights me, his precious 
Spirit comforts me, his holy word rules me ; and these things make 

' James ii. 19, (p^igirevfi signifies to roar as the sea, and to tremble and shake horribly. 
* Plusquam mea, pluiquam meoa, plutquam me. — Bernard. CJol. iii. 3, 4. Ignatius cried 
out Amor meus erucifixus, my love, my love ia crucified, &c. 



Rom. VIIL 32-34.] heaven on earth. 439 

Christ to be a heaven unto me. Oh, but now all that notional know- 
ledge, that speculative knowledge, that leaves a man on this side sal- 
vation, never affects the heart ; it never draws it, it never endears the 
heart to Christ, or to the precious things of Christ. Hence it is that 
such men, under all their notions, under all their light and knowledge, 
have no affection to Christ, no delight in Christ, no workings of heart 
after Christ. 

Well, reader ! remember this, if thy knowledge doth not now affect 
thy heart, it will at last with a witness afflict thy heart ; if it doth not 
now en^Jear Christ to thee, it will at last the more provoke Christ against 
thee ; if it doth not make all the things of Christ to be very precious 
in thy eyes, it will at last make thee the more vile in Christ's eyes. 
A little knowledge that divinely affects the heart, is infinitely better 
than a world of that swimming knowledge that swims in the head, but 
never sinks down into the heart, to the bettering, to the warming, and 
to the affecting of it. Therefore strive not so much to know, as to have 
thy heart affected with what thou knowest ; for heart-affecting know- 
ledge is the only knowledge that accompanies salvation, that will pos- 
sess thee of salvation. 

(5.) The fifth property. That knowledge that accompanies salvation, 
is a world-despising, a world-crucifying, and a world-contemning 
knowledge} It makes a man have low, poor, mean thoughts of the 
world ; it makes a man slight it, and trample upon it as a thing of no 
value. That divine light that accompanies salvation, makes a man to 
look upon the world as mixed, as mutable, as momentary ; it makes a 
man look upon the world as a liar, as a deceiver, as a flatterer, as a 
murderer, and as a witch that hath bewitched the souls of thousands 
to their eternal overthrow, by her golden offers and proffers. Divine 
knowledge put Paul upon trampling upon all the bravery and glory of 
the world, Philip, iii. 4-9. I shall only transcribe the seventh and 
eighth verses, and leave you to turn to the rest. ' But what things were 
jgain to me, those I counted loss for Christ. Yea doubtless, and I count 
all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus 
my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count 
them but dung' (ffxi/CaXa, dog's dung or dog's meat, coarse and con- 
temptible), ' that I may win Christ.'^ Divine knowledge raises his heart 
so high above the world, that he looks upon it with an eye of scorn and 
disdain, and makes him count it as an excrement, yea, as the very worst 
of excrements, as dogs' dung, as dogs' meat. Of the like import is that 
of Heb. X. 34, 'For ye had compassion of me in my bonds, and took 
joyfully the spoiling of your goods, knowing in yourselves that ye have 
in heaven a better and an enduring substance.' Divine knowledge will 
make a man rejoice, when his enemies make a bonfire of his goods. This 
man hath bills of exchange under God's own hand, to receive a pound 
for every penny, a million for every mite, that he loses for him. And 
this makes him to rejoice, and to trample upon all the glory of this 
world, as one did upon the philosopher's crown, Mat. xix. 27-30. 

It was heavenly knowledge that made Moses to disdain and scorn the 

• 2 Cor. V. 16. Divine knowledge made the apostle easily overlook all the world, as' a 
man do:h easily overlook other things, that looks to find a jewel, a pearl of price, &c. 
> 'if xviat [iaKnf, DicuntuT qyuui', ff»ip>itXa, miccB qux canibus projiciuntur. 



440 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

pomp and pleasures, the bravery and glory, the riches and advantages 
of Egypt and Ethiopia too, as some writers observe, Heb. xL 24-26.' 
So when a beam of divine light had shined upon Zaccheus, Oh, how 
doth it work him to part with the world, to cast off the world, to slight 
it and trample upon it, as a thing of nought ! ' And Zaccheus stood and 
said unto the Lord, Behold, Lord ! the half of my goods I give to the 
poor ; and if I have taken anything from any man by false accusation, 
I restore him fourfold. And Jesus said unto him, This day is salvation 
come to this house, for so much as he also is the son of Abraham,' Luke 
xix. 2-10. Before the candle of the Lord was set up in Zaccheus's soul, 
he dearly loved the world, he highly prized the world, he eagerly pur- 
sued after the world ; he would have it right or wi'ong, his heart was 
set upon it, he was resolved to gather riches, though it was out of others' 
ruins. Ay, but when once he was divinely enlightened, he throws off 
the world, he easily parts with it, he sets very light by it, he looks with 
an eye of disdain upon it. His knowledge lifts him up above the 
smiles of the world, and above the frowns of the world ; the world is no 
longer a snare, a bait, a temptation to him. He knows that it is more 
to be a son of Abraham, that is, to be taken into covenant with Abra- 
ham, to tread in the steps of Abraham's faith, as children tread in the 
steps of their fathers, and to lie and rest in the bosom of Abraham, as 
sous do in their fathers' bosoms, than to be rich, great, and honourable 
in the world, Rom. iv. 12, 16, and ix. i.^ And this made him shake 
hands with the world, and say to it, as he to his idols, ' Get you hence, 
for what have I more to do with you '? Isa. xxx. 22 ; Hos. xiv. 8. Verily, 
that light, that knowledge, will never lead thee to heaven, it will never 
possess thee of salvation, that leaves thee under the power of the world, 
that leaves thee in league and friendship with the world, 1 John ii. 15 ; 
James iv. 4. If thy knowledge doth not put the world under thy feet, 
it will never put a crown of glory upon thy head. The church hath the 
moon under her feet. Rev. xii. 1, that is clothed with the sun, and that 
hath a crown upon her head. 

Ah, knowing souls, knowing souls ! do not deceive yourselves ! Verily, 
if you are clothed with the comeliness and righteousness of the sun, which 
is Jesus Christ, and have a crown of victory and glory upon your heads, 
you will have the moon under your feet, you will tread and trample 
upon the trash of this world ; all the riches, glories, and braveries of the 
world will be under your feet, in respect of your non-subjection to it and 
your holy contempt of it. If thy knowledge doth not enable thee to set 
thy feet upon those things that most set their hearts on, thou art undone 
for ever ; thy knowledge will be so far from lifting thee up to heaven, 
that it will cast thee the lower into hell. Therefore let no knowledge 
satisfy thee, but that which lifts thee above the world, but that which 
weans thee from the world, but that which makes the world a foot- 
stool. This knowledge, this light will at last lead thee into everlasting 
light. 

(6.) The sixth property. That knowledge that accompanies salvation 
is soul-abasing, soul-humbling knowledge. It makes a man very, verj 

* Greek, fiiyat ytti/ntac, ' grown a great one.' 

' Many Turks and heathens will rise in judgment against those professors that act 
not as Zaccheus did. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 441 

little and low in his own eyes, as you may see in the most knowing 
apostle : Eph. iii. 8, ' Unto me, who am less than the least of all saints, 
is this grace given, that I should preach among the Gentiles the un- 
searchable riches of Christ.' Paul's great light makes him very little. 
Though he was the greatest apostle, yet he looks upon himself as less 
than the least of all saints.' 

Of all the evangelists,^ John was most sharp-sighted, most eagle-eyed. 
He had the clearest sight of Christ ; he lay most in the bosom of Christ ; 
he knew most of the mind of Christ ; he had the fullest manifestations 
and revelations of Christ ; and yet oh how little, how low is John in his 
own eyes ? John i. 26, 27, ' John answered them saying, I baptize with 
water ; but there standeth one among you whom ye know not. He it 
is, who, coming after me, is preferred before me, whose shoe's latchet I 
am not worthy to unloose.' In this phrase John alludes to the custom 
of the Hebrews. Those among them which were more noble than 
others, had boys who carried their shoes, and untied them when they 
laid them by. Oh ! says John, I am a poor, weak, worthless creature ; 
I am not worthy to be admitted to the meanest, to the lowest service 
under Christ ; I am not worthy to carry his shoes, to unloose his shoes. 
After Peter had been in the mount, and instructed and enlightened by 
Christ, he cries out, ' Depart from me, O Lord, for I am a sinful man,' 
(AvrjP djMa^TuXog) : a man, a sinner, a very mixture and compound of dirt 
and sin, of vileness and baseness, as you may see in comparing Mat. 
xvii. 1-5, Luke. v. 8. Abraham, under all his light and knowledge, 
acknowledges himself to be but dust and ashes. Gen. xviii. 27. Jacob, 
under all his knowledge, acknowledges himself to be less than the least 
of all mercies, Gen. xxxii. 10. David, under all his knowledge, acknow- 
ledges himself to be a worm, and no man, Ps. xxii. 6 ; he acknow- 
ledges himself to be foolish and ignorant, and as a beast before the 
Lord, Ps. Ixxiii. 22. Job, under all his knowledge, acknowledges that 
he hath much reason to abhor himself in dust and ashes. Job xlii. 1 -5. 
Agur was very good and his knowledge very great ; and yet under all his 
knowledge, oh, how did he vilify, yea, nullify himself ! ' Surely,' saith he, 
' I am more brutish than any man, and have not the understanding of 
a man. I neither learned wisdom, nor have the knowledge of the holy,' 
Prov. XXX. 1, 4. The evangelical prophet Isaiah, under all his know- 
ledge and visions, which were very great and glorious, acknowledges 
himself to be a man of unclean lips, and to dwell in the midst of a 
people of unclean lips,' Isa. vi. 1-8. Divine and heavenly knowledge 
brings a man near to God ; it gives a man the clearest and fullest sight 
of God ; and the nearer any man comes to God, and the clearer visions 
he hath of God, the more low and humble will that man lie before God. 
None so humble as they that have nearest communion with God. The 
angels that are near unto him cover their faces with their wings, in token 

• ixaxi'Teri^f, & comparative made a superlative. 

' A strange oversight, by vrhich Brooks confounds John the baptist with John the 
apostle and evangelist. — Ot. 

* John in the Hebrew signifies the grace of God. This barbarian, said the philosopher, 
hath (comprised more in three lines, than we have done in all our voluminous discourses, 
Mat. xi. 9-11. Christ wonderfully extols John. Says Christ, he is a prophet, yea, and 
more than a prophet, yea, a greater is not born of woman. But the greatest wonder of ail 
is, that John is so low in his own eyes* 



44!2 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

of humility. Divine knowledge makes a man look inwards ; it anatom- 
izes a man to himself ; it is a glass that shews a man the spots of his 
own soul, and this makes him little and low in his own eyes.^ 

In the beams of this heavenly light, a Christian comes to see his own 
pride, ignorance, impatience, unworthiness, conceitedness, worthlessness, 
frowardness and nothingness.* That knowledge that swells thee will 
undo thee ; that knowledge that putFs thee will sink thee ; that know- 
ledge that makes thee delightful in thy own eyes will make thee des- 
picable in God's and good men's eyes : 1 Cor. viii. 1,2,' Knowledge 
puffeth up;' that is, notional knowledge, speculative knowledge, know- 
ledge that ripens a man for destruction, that will leave him short of 
salvation. This knowledge putfs and swells a man, and makes him 
think himself something when he is nothing: 'And if any man thinketh 
that he knoweth anything, he knoweth nothing yet as he ought to 
know,' saith the apostle.^ 

Will not that philosopher rise in judgment against many of our high- 
flown professors, who swell, who look big, and talk big under their 
notional knowledge, which was very great: Hoc tantum scio, quod 
nihil scio, ' This only do I know, that I know nothing.'* Well ! if that 
knowledge thou hast be that knowledge that accompanies salvation, it 
is a soul-humbling and a soul-abasing knowledge. If it be otherwise, 
then will thy knowledge make thee both a prisoner and a slave to the 
devil at once. 

(7.) The seventh property. That knowledge that accompanies sal- 
vation is an appropriating knowledge, a knowledge that appropriates 
and applies spiritual and heavenly benefits to a man's own particular 
soul. As you may see in Job, ' my Redeemer lives,' and ' my witness 
is in heaven,' and * my record is on high,' Job xix. 25, and xvi. 1 9 ; so 
David, ' the Lord is my portion,' Ps. xvi. 5. In Ps. xviii. 2, he useth 
this word of propriety eight times together, ' The Lord is my rock, and 
Tny fortress, and my deliverer ; m.y God, my strength, in whom I will 
trust; my buckler, and the horn of my salvation, and tny high tower.' 
So the spouse, ' My beloved is mine, and I am his,' Cant. ii. 16; so 
Thomas, ' My Lord and my God,' John xx. 28 ; so Paul, ' I am crucified 
with Christ: nevertheless I live; yet not I, but Christ liveth in me: and 
the life which I now live in the flesh I live by the faith of the Son of 
God, who hath loved me, and gave himself for me,' Gal. ii. 20. Appli- 
catory knowledge is the sweetest knowledge ; it revives the heart, it 
cheers the spirits, it rejoices the soul, it makes a man go singing to 
duties, and go singing to his grave, and singing to heaven ;° whereas 
others, though gracious, that want this applicatory knowledge, have 
their hearts full of fears, and their lives full of sorrows, and so go sigh- 
ing and mourning to heaven.^ 

1 The light that the moon borrows from the sun discovers her own spots, and makes 
them the more conspicuous. 

2 When a beam of divine light had shined upon Augustine, he cried out, Teneo in 
memoria, scribo in charta, sed non habeo in vita. 

'' Many in these days are like the Chinese, who use to say, that they only did see with 
two eyes, all others but with one. [Chinese is spelled Chineses. — G.] 

* Socrates in Plato tliroughout. — G. 

* This is the pith and power of heavenly knowledge, to appropriate Christ to a man's self. 
•> Those that have a blemish in their eye think the sky to be ever cloudy ; and nothing 

is more common to weak spirits, than to be criticising and contending, &c. 



Rom, VIII. 32-84.] heaven on earth. 443 

But lest any precious soul should turn this truth into a sword to cut 
and wound himself, let me desire him to remember, that every believer 
that hath such knowledge that accompanies salvation, hath. not this 
applicatory knowledge, that makes so much for the soul's consolation, 
and that doth accompany some men's salvation, 1 say not all men's sal- 
vation. If thou findest thy knowledge to be such a knowledge as is 
before described in the six former particulars, though thou hast not at- 
tained to this applicatory knowledge, yet hast thou attained to that 
knowledge that accompanies salvation, and that will, my soul for thine, 
give thee a possession of salvation. This applicatory knowledge that 
accompanies salvation is only to be found in such eminent saints that 
are high in their communion with God, and that have attained some 
considerable assurance of their interest in God.' Many men's salvation 
is accompanied with an applicatory knowledge, but all men's salvation 
is not accompanied with an applicatory knowledge of man's particular 
interest in Christ, and those blessed favours and benefits that comes by 
him. Thy soul may be safe, and thy salvation may be sure, though 
thou hast not attained unto this appropriating knowledge, but thy life 
cannot be comfortable without this appropriating knowledge ; there- 
fore, if thou hast it not, labour for it as for life. It is a pearl of price, 
and if thou findest it, it will make thy soul amends for all thy digging, 
seeking, working, sweating, weeping, &c.^ 

(8.) Tlte eighth property. That knowledge that accompanies salva- 
tion is accompanied and attended with these things : 

[1.] The first attenduTit. That knowledge that accompanies salva- 
tion is attended with holy endeavours, and with Iieavenly desires, 
thirstings, and pantings after a further knowledge of Godj, after 
dearer visions of God. Pro v. xv. 14, ' The heart of him that hath 
understanding seeketh knowledge : but the mouth of fools feedeth on 
fooUshness.' The Hebrew word that is here rendered 'seeketh' \pp2>\, 
is in pihil, and signifies an earnest and diligent seeking; to seek as an 
hungry man seeks for meat, or as a covetous man for gold, the more he 
hath, the more he desires ; or as a condemned man seeks for his pardon, 
or as the diseased man seeks for his cure. The word in the text is 
from a root [K'pn] that signifies to seek studiously, laboriously, indus- 
triously ; to seek by suing, praying, inquiring, and walking up and 
down, that we may find what we seek : so in that Prov. xviii. 1 5, 
* The heart of the prudent getteth knowledge, and the ear of the wise 
seeketh knowledge' [c^pnn].^ A man that divinely knows, will set his 
heart and his ear, his inward and outward man, to know more and more. 
Divine knowledge is marvellous sweet, pleasing, comforting, satisfying, 
refreshing, strenghening, and supporting; and souls that have found 
the sweetness and usefulness of it, cannot but look and long, breathe 
and pant after more and more of it. The new-born babe doth not more 
naturally and more earnestly long for the breasts, than a soul that hath 
tasted that the Lord is gracious doth long for further and further tastes 
of God, 1 Peter il 2, 3. David, under all his knowledge, cries out, ' I 
' It is commonly said of knowledge, non hahetinimieum prceter iffnorantiam, that it hath 
not a greater enemy than ignorance, &c. 

" A man doth not attain to health by reading Galen's or Hippocrates's aphorisms, hut 
by the practical application of them to remove his diseases. You know how to apply it. 
' Seeketh as men do for hid treasure. 



^^l HEAVEN ON EARTH. [RoM. VIII. 32-34!. 

am a stranger in the land, hide not thy commandments from me. Open 
mine eyes, that I may behold wondrous things out of thy law,' Ps. cxix. 
18, 19. Job, under all his knowledge, which was very great, cries out, 
' That which I see not, teach thou me : if I have done iniquity, I will 
do no more,' Job xxxiv. 32. 

[2.] The second attendant. A second thing that attends and ac- 
companies that knowledge that accompanies salvation, is holy endear- 
vours to edify others, to instruct others, to enlighten and inform others 
in the knowledge of splHtual and heavenly things. Heavenly light 
cannot be hid under a bushel. You may as easily hinder the sun from 
shining, as you may hinder a gracious soul from diffusing and spread- 
ing abroad that knowledge and light that God hath given him.' Divine 
light in the soul is like a light in a bright lantern, that shines forth 
every way, or like a light in a room, or on a beacon, that gives light 
to others. A Christian that divinely knows, is like the lamp in the 
story, that was always burning and shining, and never went out. So in 
Gen. xviii. 17, 19, 'And the Lord said. Shall I hide from Abraham 
that which I do ; for I know him, that he will command his children 
and his household after him, and they shall keep the way of the Lord, 
to do justice and judgment ; that the Lord may bring upon Abraham 
that which he hath spoken of him.' He that communicates his know- 
ledge to others, shall be both of God's court and counsel ; he shall lie 
in the bosom of God, he shall know the secrets of God. Prov. xv. 7, 
' The lips of the wise disperse knowledge, but the heart of the foolish 
doth not so/ The Hebrew word that is here rendered, ' disperse,' is a 
metaphor taken from seedsmen scattering abroad their seed in the fur- 
rows of the field. Heavenly knowledge is very spreading and diffusive ; 
it is like the sun : the sun casteth his beams upward and downward, 
upon good and upon bad ; so divine light in a gracious soul will break 
forth for the advantage and profit of friends and enemies, of those that 
be in a state' of nature, and of those that be in a state df grace.^ Acts 
iv. 18-20, ' And they called them, and commanded them not to speak at 
all, nor teach, in the name of Jesus. But Peter and John answered and 
said unto them, Whether it be right in the sight of God to hearken unto 
you more than unto God, judge ye. For we cannot but speak the 
things that we have seen and heard.' The bee doth store her hive out 
of all sorts of flowers for the common benefit ; so a heavenly Christian 
sucks sweetness out of every mercy and every duty, out of every pro- 
vidence and out of every ordinance, out of every promise and out of every 
privilege, that he may give out the more sweetness to others.^ LUmod 
lelammed, ' we therefore learn, that we may teach,' is a jwoverb among 
the Rabbins. ' And I do therefore lay in, and lay up,' saith the hea- 
then, * that I may draw forth again, and lay out fw the good of many,' 
This heathen [Socrates, &c.,] will rise in judgment against those that 

• The way to get more knowledge, is to communicate that we have, according to that, 
habenti dabitur. Thus did Philip of Bethsaida, John i. 45 ; thus did the woman of 
Samaria, John iv. 28, 29 ; thus did the spouse. Cant. v. 10-16; thus did that seraphical 
preacher St Paul, Acts xxvi. 29. 

' Augustine accounted nothing his own that he did not communicate to others. 

' Opposition is the black angel that dogs the gospel at the heels. Divine knowledge 
is like new wine; it must have vent ; it is heavenly fire that will break forth, Jer. v. 14, 
and XX. 2. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. ^4)5 

monopolise knowledge to themselves, that imprison their light with- 
in their own breasts, lest others should outshine and darken them. 

Sjnesius speaks of some, who, having a treasure of rare abilities in 
themselves, would as soon part with their hearts as with their concep- 
tions.' Verily, such men are far off from that knowledge that accom- 
panies salvation ; for that knowledge will make a man willing to spend 
and be spent for the edification, consolation, and salvation of others, 2 
Cor. vi. 10; Gal. iv. 19. Prov. x. 21, 'The lips of the righteous feed 
many.' 

[3.] The third attendant. A third thing that attends and accom- 
panies that knowledge that accompanies salvation, is holy zeal, courage, 
and resolution for God. Divine knowledge makes a man as bold as a 
lion, Prov. xxviii. 1. Dan. xi. 32, ' And such as do wickedly against the 
covenant shall be corrupt by flatteries : but the people that do know 
their God shall be strong, and do exploits.' So Prov. xxiv. 5, ' A wise 
man is strong ; yea, a man of knowledge increaseth strength,' or, * He 
strengtheneth might,' as it is in the Hebrew.^ Divine light makes a 
man full of mettle for God ; it makes the soul divinely fearless and care- 
less. Joshua xxiv. 15, 'Choose ye whom you will serve, I and my 
household will serve the Lord.' Come what will of it, we will never 
change our Master, nor quit his service. 

Those beams of light that shined in upon Chrysostom, did so heat and 
warm his heart, that he stoutly tells Eudoxia the empress, that for her 
covetousness she would be called a second Jezebel ; whereupon she sent 
him a threatening message, to which he returned this answer, ' Go tell 
her,' nil nisi peccatum timeo, ' I fear nothing but sin.'' 

A prophetical man, in the ecclesiastical history, went to the pillars a 
little before an earthquake, and bid them stand fast, for they should 
shortly be shaken. Ah, Christians ! there is an earthquake a-coming, 
and therefore as you would stand fast, as you would not have any earth- 
quakes to make your hearts quake, get this zeal and courage that attends 
divine knowledge, and then you shall in the midst of all earthquakes be 
as mount Zion that cannot be removed, Ps. cxxv. 1, 2. 

They that write the story of the travels of the apostles, report that 
Simon Zelotes preached here in England. Ah, England, England ! if 
ever thou needest some zealots, it is now. Oh how secure, how dull, 
how drowsy, how sleepy in the midst of dangers art thou ! For this 
and other of thy abominations, I desire my soul may weep in secret.* 

[4.] The fourth attendant. The fourth and last thing that attends 
or accompanies that knowledge that accompanies salvation is, faiih 
and confidence in God.^ Ps. ix. 10, ' They that know thy name will 

1 Some such there he in these days. [Synesius, Opera 1612, folio. — G.] 

* tiya, in strength, n3 fOKD 

^ [See Index under Chrysostom for other references to this — G.] The heavenly light 
and knowledge that the prophets and apostles had, made them very zealous and coura- 
geous for their God, in the face of all difiSculties and deaths, aa might be shewed in 
very many scriptures. 

* Epiphanius saith that Elijah sucked fire out of his mother's breasts. There are very 
few such Elijahs in these days. 

"Knowledge and faith are twins, they live, and lodge, and act together ; they are two 
lovers, that may be distinguished one from another, but they cannot be separated one 
from another. 



446 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [RoM. VIII. 32-34. 

put their trust in thee ; for thou, Lord, hast not forgotten them that 
seek thee.' 2 Tim. i. 12, ' For the which cause I also suffer these things, 
nevertheless I am not ashamed ; for I know whom I have believed, and 
I am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I have committed 
unto him against that day.' I shall not enlarge upon this branch, 
because I shall speak at large concerning faith in the next particular. 

And thus I have shewed you from the Scriptures what that knowledge 
is that accompanies salvation. 

Now, the second thing that I am to shew you is, what that faith is 
that accompanies salvation.^ I have formerly shewed you that faith 
doth accompany salvation, but now I will shew you what faith that is 
that doth accompany salvation ; and that I shall do, by divine assist- 
ance, thus : 

First, That faith that accompanies salvation, that comprehends sal- 
vation, that will possess a man of salvation, is known, 

(1.) By the objects about which it is exercised. And, 

(2.) By the properties of it. 

First, By the objects about which it is exercised. Now the objects 
of faith are these. 

(1.) The first object of faith. First, The person of Christ is the 
object of faith.2 It is Christ in the promises that faith deals with. 
The promise is but the shell, Christ is the kernel ; the promise is but 
the casket, Christ is the jewel in it; the promise is but the field, 
Christ is the treasure that is hid in that field; the promise is a ring of 
gold, and Christ is the pearl in that ring; and upon this sparkling, 
shining pearl, faith delights most to look. Cant. iii. 4, ' It was but a 
little that I passed from them, but I found him whom my soul loveth. 
I held him, and I would not let him go, until I had brought him into 
my mother's house, and into the chamber of her that conceived me.' 
So Cant. vii. 5, ' The king is held in the galleries.' Faith hath two 
hands, and with both she lays earnest and fast hold on King Jesus. 
Christ's beauty and glory is very taking and drawing ; faith cannot see 
it, but it will lay hold on it. Christ is the principal object' about which 
faith is exercised, for the obtaining of righteousness and everlasting hap- 
piness. Acts xvi. 30, 31, * And the jailor said. Sirs, what must I do to be 
saved ? And they said, Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou 
shalt be saved.' Christ is in a world of scriptures held forth to be the 
object about- which faith is most conversant; and the more faith is 
exercised upon the person of Christ, the more it buds and blossoms, 
like Aaron's rod. Faith looks upon him as the express image and 
character of his Father ; faith beholds him as the chiefest of ten 
thousand ; faith sees him to be the most glorious object in all the 
world.* 

^ Fides est interdum id quod credimus. interdum id quo credimus. — Augustine. 

* Christ, as lledeemer, is the immediate object of faith, and God is the ultimate ; for 
•we believe in God through Christ, Rom. vi. 11 ; 1 Peter i. 21 ; 2 Cor. iii. 4. Faith's 
motto is, Nolo benedictionem tuam sed te. 

» Not but that the Father is also the object of believers' faith, John xiv. 1. Isa. Ixiii. 
16, 16, with many other scriptures. But Christ is the object held forth by the Father 
for our faitli to close with, in respect of our justification and salvation. God is oljectitm 
ultimum fidei, the ultimate or highest object of faith; and Christ oljectum medialum, the 
mediate object thereof. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 44:7 

(2.) The second object of faith. Secondly, The second object that 
faith is exercised about is the righteousness of Jesus Christ : Philip, iii. 
9, ' I desire to be found in Christ, not having my own righteousness, 
which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the 
righteousness which is of God by faith.' Paul would not be found in a 
legal righteousness, for he knew all his legal righteousness was but as 
' filthy rags,' Isa. liv. 6. All his legal righteousness, sewed together, 
would but make up a coat of patches, a beggar's coat, that is good for 
nothing but to be cast away ; therefore he desired to be found in the 
righteousness of Christ by faith. He knew that Christ's righteousness 
was a pure righteousness, a spotless righteousness, a matchless right- 
eousness, a complete righteousness, a perfect righteousness, an absolute 
righteousness, a glorious righteousness. Faith loves to fix her eye upon 
that rich and royal robe, that blameless and spotless righteousness of 
Christ, wherewith the soul stands gloriously clothed before God, as being 
all fair as being without spot or wrinkle in divine account.' Oh, it is 
the actmgs of faith upon this blessed object, this glorious righteousness 
of Christ, that makes a man familiar and bold with God, that makes a 
man active and resolute for God, that strengthens a man against temp- 
tations, that supports a man under afflictions, that makes a man long 
for the day of his dissolution, that makes him prefer his coffin above a 
prince's crown, the day of his death above the day of his birth ; that 
makes him triumph over sin and Satan, hell and wrath. Adam's right- 
eousness was but the righteousness of a creature, but the righteousness 
about which faith is exercised is the righteousness of a God,^ Rom. iii. 
21, and x. 3. Adam's righteousness was a mutable righteousness, a 
righteousness that might be sinned away ; but the righteousness that a 
believer's faith is exercised about is an everlasting righteousness, a 
righteousness that cannot be sinned away, 2 Cor. v. 21 : Prov. viii. 18. 
mide Dan. ix. 24, ' Seventy weeks are determined upon thy people and 
upon thy holy city to finish the transgression, and to make an end of 
sins, and to make reconciliation for iniquity, and to bring in everlasting 
righteousness, and to seal up the vision and prophecy, and to anoint 
the most holy ;' Ps. cxix. 1 42, ' Thy righteousness is an everlasflng 
righteousness, and thy law is the truth.' The righteousness of Adam 
was a righteousness subject to shaking, and we know that Satan did 
shake all his righteousness about his ears, as I may say. Oh but that 
glorious righteousness about which faith is conversant is an unshaken 
righteousness, a righteousness that cannot be shaken : Ps. xxxvi. 6, 
'Thy righteousness is like the great mountains,' or rather, as it is 
in the Hebrew, ' Thy righteousness is like the mountains of God.' 
What more stable than a mountain ! and what mountain so stable as 
the mountain of God ! The mountains cannot be shaken, no more can 
that glorious righteousness of Christ, about which a believer's faith is 
exercised. Adam's righteousness was a low righteousness, a righteous- 

1 Col. ii. 10 ; Cant. iv. 7 : Rev. xiv. 5 ; Eph. v. 27. 

* The righteousness of angela is but the righteousness of creatures, but the righteous- 
ness that the saints are clothed with is the very righteousness of God ; and in this respect 
the.meanest saint is more excellent and glorious than the most glorious angel. 

3 7N"mnD. The Hebrew useth to note excellent things, by adding the name of God ; 
as cedars of God, Ps. Ixxx. 10 ; rivers of God, Pa. Ixv. 19 ; wrestlings of God, Gen. xxx. 
8 ; harps of God, Rev. xv. 2, 



44-8 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

ness within his own reach, and a righteousness within Satan's reach ; 
it was not so high, but Adam could lay his hand upon it, as I may say ; 
it was not so high, but Satan could reach to the top of it, yea, to the 
over-topping of it, as we have all found by woful experience. Oh, but 
that righteousness that faith is conversant about, is a righteousness of 
such a height, as that neither Satan nor the world can reach to it : 
Ps. Ixxi. 15, 16, 19, ' My mouth shall shew forth thy righteousness and 
thy salvation all the day ; for I know not the numbers thereof. I will 
go in the strength of the Lord God : I will make mention of thy right- 
eousness, even of thine only. Thy righteousness also, O God, is very 
high, who hath done great things : O God, who is like unto thee ?' 
This glorious righteousness of Christ, about which faith is busied, is 
called the righteousness of faith, because faith apprehends it, and 
applies it, and feeds upon it, and delights in it, Rom. iii. 28. Rom. iv. 
13, ' For the promise, that he should be the heir of the world, was not 
to Abraham, or to his seed, through the law, but through the righteous- 
ness of faith.' Chap. ix. 30, ' What shall we say then ? That the Gen- 
tiles which followed not after righteousness, have attained to righteousness, 
even the righteousness which is of faith.' The righteousness of Christ 
about which faith is employed, is called the righteousness of faith, 
because faith puts on this righteousness upon the soul. Faith wraps 
the soul up in this righteousness of Christ, and so justifieth it before 
God instrumentally.' The actings of faith on this glorious righteous- 
ness doth most strengthen the soul : Isa. xlv. 24, ' Surely fehall one say, 
In the Lord have I righteousness and strength.' The actings of faith 
on this blessed righteousness, doth most glad and rejoice the soul : Isa. 
Ixi. 10, 'I will greatly rejoice in the Lord, my soul shall be joyful in 
my God ; for he hath clothed me with the garment of salvation, he hath 
covered me with the robe of righteousness.' The actings of faith upon 
this complete righteousness of Christ, renders souls just and righteous, 
pure and holy, in the account of God : Rom. x. 4, ' For Christ is the 
end of the law for righteousness, to every one that believeth.' Christ 
fulfils the law for believers, and they by believing do fulfil the law in 
hiiti ; and so Christ by doing, and they by believing in him that doth 
it, do fulfil the law, and so are reputed fair and spotless, complete and 
perfect, before the throne of God. Faith's putting this righteousness 
on the soul, brings down blessings upon the soul. When Jacob had 
put on his elder brother's garment, he carried the blessing away. The 
actings of faith upon this peerless righteousness of Christ, brings down 
the blessing of peace, and the blessing of joy, and the blessing of remis- 
sion of sins ; and, in a word, all other blessings that contributes to the 
making us blessed here and happy hereafter, &c. 

(3.) The third object of faith. Thirdly, The third object that faith 
is exercised about is, tJie precious promises, which are a Christian's 

• Rom X. 6, but the righteousness which is of faith, i. e. which is apprehended by faith, 
&c. Mark, faith is only the instrument ; it cannot be the substance of that rigiiteous- 
ness, as it were, whereby we are justified and saved, (1.) because it is imperfect ; (2.) the 
acts of faith are transient ; (3.) then should men have something within them whereof to 
boast ; (4.) faith is a part of inherent holiness ; (6.) then some men should be justified 
more, and some less, according to the different measures of faith in them, Gen. zxvii. 15 ; 
Rom. V. 1 ; 1 Peter i. 8 ; Acts x. 43. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34] heaven on earth. 449 

magna charta} As every precious stone hath an egregious ^ virtue in 
it, so hath every promise. The promises are a precious book, every 
leaf drops myrrh and mercy ; and upon these precious promises, precious 
faith looks and lives. From these breasts faith sucks comfort and 
sweetness. Ps, cxix. 49, 50, ' Remember thy word (that is, thy pro- 
mise) unto thy servant, upon which thou hast caused me to hope. 
This is my comfort in my affliction, for thy word hath quickened me.' 
So in Ps. xxvii. 13, 'I had fainted, unless I had believed to see the 
goodness of the Lord in the land of the living ;' Heb. xi. 13, ' These 
all died in faith (or according to faith), not having received the pro- 
mises, but having seen them afar off, and were persuaded of them, and 
embraced them' (or, as the Greek hath \i, saluted them by faith ; they 
kissed the promises, and kissed Christ in the promises^), ' and confessed 
that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth.' It would be an 
endless thing to shew you how the faith of the patriarchs, prophets, 
apostles, and other saints have been acted and exercised upon promises 
of sanctification, upon promises of justification, upon promises of salva- 
tion, upon promises of glorification, upon promises of protection, upon 
promises for direction, upon promises for supportation, &c. Look, as 
the lamp lives upon the oil, and the child upon the breasts, so doth faith 
upon the promises. 

For the further advantage and comfort of your souls in eyeing the 
promises, let me give you these two sweet hints : 

First, In your looking upon the promises, mind most, eye most, 
spiritual promises, absolute promises, viz., those and such like that you 
see in the margin.* These spiritual and absolute promises are of 
nearest and greatest concernment to you ; these carry in them most of 
the heart of Christ, the love of Christ, the good-will of Christ ; these 
are of greatest use to satisfy you, and to settle you when you are 
wavering ; to support you when you are falling ; to reduce you when 
you are wandering ; to comfort you when you are fainting ; to counsel 
you when you are staggering, &c. Therefore make these your choicest 
and your chiefest companions, especially when it is night within your 
souls, when you are sensible of much sin and but a little grace, of much 
corruption but of little consolation, of much deadness but of little quick- 
ness, of much hardness but of little tenderness, of many fears and but 
a little faith. The Jews under the law had more temporal promises 
than spiritual, but we under the gospel have far more spiritual promises 
than temporal ; therefore sit down at this fire, and be warmed ; drink 
of these springs, and be satisfied; taste of these delicates, and be cheered. 
Let the eye of faith be cast upon all the promises, but fixed upon spiritual 
promises, upon absolute promises ; they will have the greatest influence 
upon the heart to holiness, and to prepare it for everlasting happiness.** 

' 2 Peter i. 4. Mark, the whole word of God is the object of faith ; but the promises, 
more especially, are the prime object about which faith is most conversant. 

2 Spelled ' egregious ;' meaning ' peculiar.' — G. 

' xara -rirrn, t. e. persevering in faith, oKr^rara/nvoi. Some think that it is an allusion 
to the custom of saluting one another, by embracing or laying hold of each other. 

* Jer. xxxii. 40, 41 ; Ezek. xi. 19, 20 ; xxxvi. 25-27 ; Isa. xlii. 1 ; Ezek. xx. 41-43 ; 
Ps. xci. 15 ; Isa. Ixv. 24 ; Jer. xxxiii. 3 ; Isa. xxxii. 15 ; Ezek. xxxiv. 30, 31, with many 
otheifs of the like import. 

6 Spiritual and absolute promises are the most precious mines to enrich you ; in them 
you will find the greatest pearls of price. 

VOL. II. F f 



450 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

Look not only upon some of the riches, the jewels, the pearls, that be 
wrapped up in the promises, but enlarge and expatiate your under- 
standings to an effectual contemplation of all those riches and treasures 
that God hath laid up in the promises. Cast not the eye of your faith 
only upon one beam of the sun, but endeavour to see all the beams of 
the sun ; look not upon one branch of the tree of life, but upon every 
branch of that tree ; look not upon one bunch of the grapes of Canaan, 
but look upon the whole land.' As understanding heirs, when they 
come to read over their evidences and writings, they will see what they 
have in houses, what in goods, what in lands, what in money, what in 
jewels, what at home, what abroad ; they will not sit down and say, 
Well ! we find in our evidences, that such and such land is ours, and 
look no further ; no, no, they will look all over, and take exact notice 
of everything ; they will say, We have so much land, and so much 
money, &c. O beloved, there is much marrow and fatness, there is 
much honey and sweetness, much grace and glory wrapped up in the 
promises. Oh press them, and oppress^ them till you have got forth all 
the riches and sweetness that is in them. 

Ah, Christians ! did you this, God would be more honoured, the 
promises more prized, your graces more strengthened, your fears more 
abated, your hearts more warmed and engaged, and your lives more re- 
gulated, and Satan more easily and frequently vanquished. And so 
much for this third object, about which faith is exercised. 

(4.) Fourthly, The fourth object of faith. The fourth object and last 
that I shall mention that faith is set and fixed upon is, that glory, 
blessedness, and life, which God hath laid up for them, that love him? 
The things of eternity are the greatest things, they are the most excellent 
things. They are most excellent in their natures, in their causes, in their 
operations, in their effects, in their ends ; and upon these faith look s and lives. 
Faith realiseth things; it makes absent things present. 'Faith is the sub- 
stance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen,' Heb. xi. 1.* 
Faith makes absent glory present, absent riches present, absent pleasures 
present, absent favours present. Faith brings an invisible God, and sets 
him before the soul. Moses by faith saw him that was invisible. Faith 
brings down the recompence of reward, and sets it really though spiritually 
before the soul. Faith sets divine favour before the soul. It sets peace, it 
sets pardon of sin, it sets the righteousness of Christ, it sets the joy of 
heaven, it sets salvation, before the soul ; it makes all these things very 
near and obvious to the soul : ' Faith is the evidence of things not seen.'* 
Faith makes invisible things visible, absent things present, things that are 
afar off to be very near unto the soul, by convincing demonstrations, by 
arguments and reasons drawn from the word, as the Greek word signi- 
fies : 2 Cor. iv. 17, 18, ' For our light affliction, which is but for a 
moment, worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of 
glory. While we look not at the things which are seen, but at the things 

* Haman took notice, yea, and would have his friends take notice, of all his greatness, 
honours, and riches, Esther v. 10-12; and will not you stir up j'our hearts to see all 
those riches and pleasures that be in precious promises ? ^ Qu. • expiess'? — Ed. 

" 2 Tim. iv. 8. Faith ante-dates glory. 

* vTirraris, the substance, t. e. that which gives a substantial being to the things of 
etfrnal life. Faith alters the tenses ; it puts the future into the present, Pa. Ix. 6 ; 
Heb. xii. 2. ' ixtyx'!) the index, or clear conviction by disputation. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 451 

which are not seen : for the things which are seen are temporal, but 
the things which are not seen are eternal/* Faith trades in invisible 
things, in eternal things. Its eye is always upwards, like the fish called 
by Galen uraiioscopos,^ that hath but one eye^ and yet looks continually 
up to heaven.^ Faith enters within the veil, and fixes her eye upon 
those glorious things of eternity, that are so many that they exceed 
number, so great that they exceed measure, so precious that they are 
above all estimation. Says faith, The spangled firmament is but the 
footstool of my Father's house ; and if the footstool, the outside, be so 
glorious, oh how glorious is his throne ! Verily, in heaven there is 
that life that cannot be expressed, that light that cannot be compre- 
hended, that joy that cannot be fathomed, that sweetness that cannot 
be dissipated, that feast that cannot be consumed ; and upon these 
pearls of glory I look and live, says faith. 

And thus I have shewed you the choice and precious objects about 
which that faith is exercised that accompanies salvation. 

I shall now in the next place shew you the properties of that faith 
that accompanies salvation, and they are these that follow. 

[1.] TJie first property of that faith that accompanies salvation is 
this : it puts forth itself into vital operation.* It makes a man full of 
life and activity for God ; it will make a man diligent and venturous in 
the work and ways of God. Faith is a most active quality in itself, and 
so it makes a Christian most active. It is a doing thing, and it makes 
the person doing. Faith will not suffer the soul to be idle. Faith is 
like the virtuous woman in the last of the Proverbs, who puts her hand 
to every work, who would suffer none of her handmaids to be idle. Faith 
puts the soul upon grieving for sin, upon combating with sin, upon 
weeping over sin, upon trembling at the occasions of sin, upon resisting 
temptations that lead to sin, upon fighting it out to the death with sin, 
Zech. xii. 10. Faith puts a man upon walking with God, upon waiting 
on God, upon working for God, upon wrestling with God, upon bearing 
for God, and upon parting wijth anything for God." Faith makes reli- 
gious duties to be easy to the soul, to be delightful to the soul, to be 
profitable to the soul. Faith makes the soul to be serious and con- 
scientious in doing, to be careful and faithful in doing, to be delightful 
and cheerful in doing, to be diligent and faithful in doing.^ That faith 
that is not a working faith is no faith ; that faith that is not a working 
faith is a dead faith ; that faith that is not a working faith is a deluding 
faith ; that faith that is not a working faith is a worthless faith ; that 
faith that is not a working faith will leave a man short of heaven and 
happiness in the latter day. Faith that accompanies salvation is better 
at doing than at thinking, at obeying than at disputing, at walking than 
at talking : Titus iii. 8, ' This is a faithful saying ; and these things I 

^ trKoiroviTiui, to look with a diligent eye, as men do at the marlc whereat they shoot. 

* ai/^avefKOTas, OS before. — G. 

3 Heb. vi. 19 ; Rom. viii. 18 ; Heb. x. 34 ; Acts vii. 55, 56. An adopted heir to a 
crown cannot but have his heart at court ; his mind and thoughts will be upon his future 
glorious condition : he will be still a-creating ideas and images of it. 

* Quid est igitur fides ? Omnino fideliter hominem Christo credere, i. e. Fidelem esse, hoc 
estfideliter Dei mandata servare, saith one. 

8' The 11th of the Hebrews is a full proof of these things ; Gal. ii. 20. 
® James ii. 17, to the end. Faith looks to precepts as well a.s to promises : Ps. cxix. 
66, ' Teach me good judgment and knowledge ; for 1 have believed thy commandments.' 



452 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

will that thou affirm constantly, that they which have believed in God 
might be careful to maintain good works/' Faith will make a man endea- 
vour to be good, yea, to be best, at ever3rthing he undertakes. It is 
not leaves but fruit, not .words but works, that God expects ; and if we 
cross his expectation, we frustrate ^ur own salvation, we further our own 
condemnation. Faith makes the soul much in doing, abundant in 
working, and that partly by persuading the soul that all its works, all 
its duties and services, shall be owned and accepted of God, as in Isa. 
Ivi. 7, ' Even them will I bring to my holy mountain, and make them 
joyful in my house of prayer : their burnt-offerings and their sacrifices 
shall be accepted upon mine altar ; for mine house shall be called an 
house of prayer for all people.' Faith assures the soul that every prayer, 
every sigh, every groan, every tear is accepted. And this makes the 
soul pray much, and sigh much, and mourn much. 

Again, faith spreads the promises of divine assistance before the soul. 
Oh ! says faith, here, soul, is assistance suitable to the work required. 
And this makes a man work, as for life ; it makes a man work and 
sweat, and sweat and work. 

Again, faith sets the recompence, the reward, before the soul, Heb. 
xi. 25, 26. Oh ! says faith, look here, soul, here is a great reward for a 
little work ; here is great wages for weak and imperfect services ; here 
is an infinite reward for a finite work. Work, yea, work hard, says 
faith, O believing soul, for thy actions in passing pass not away ; 
every good work is as a grain of seed for eternal life. There is a resurrec- 
tion of works as well as of persons, and in that day wicked men shall 
see that it is not a vain thing to serve God ; they shall see the most 
doing souls to be the most shining souls, to he the most advanced and 
rewarded. Oh the sight of this crown, of this recompence, makes souls 
to abound in the work of the Lord, they knowing that their labour is 
not in vain in the Lord,^ 1 Cor. xv. 58. 

Again, faith draws from Christ^s fulness; it sucks virtue and strength 
from Christ's breasts. Faith looks upon Christ as a head, and so draws 
from him ; it looks upon Christ as a husband, and so draws from him ; 
it looks upon him as a fountain, and so draws from him ; it looks upon 
him as a sea, as an ocean of goodness, and so draws from him ; it looks 
upon him as a father, Col. i. 1.9, and so draws from him ; it looks upon 
him as a friend, and so draws from him, John i. 16. And this divine 
power and strength sets the soul a- working hard for God ; it makes the 
soul full of motion, full of action. In a word, faith is such a working 
grace as sets all other ^aces a-working. Faith bath an influence upon 
every grace ; it is like a silver thread that runs through a chain of pearl ; 
it puts strength and vivacity into all other virtues. Love touched by a 
hand of faith flames forth ; hope fed at faith's table grows strong, and 
casts anchor within the veil, Acts v. and xvi. ; Rom. xv. 13. Joy, 
courage, and zeal being smiled upon by faith, is made invincible and 

^ ^j«vr/^*<r/. The word signifies to bend their wits, and beat their brains, to maintain 
good works, Isa. ixv. 24 ; Gen. iv. 4 ; 2 Peter iii. 11 ; Cant. ii. 14. Luther prefers tlie 
nieanef^t work of a country Christian or poor maid above all the victories and triumphs 
of Alexander and of Julius CsBsar, Mat. xxvii. 66; Isa. xli. 10, 11 ; Heb. xiii. 5, 6; 
Ezek. xxxvi. 26, 27, &c. 

* One good work of a Christian is more precioaa than heaven and earth, saith Luther, 
Rev. xiv. 13. 



Rom. VIII. 32^34.] heaven on eaeth. 453 

unconquerable, &c. Look, what oil is to the wheels, what weights are 
to the clock, what wings are to the bird, what sails are to the ship, that 
faitli is to all religious duties and services, except it be winter with the 
soul. 

And thus you see, that that faith that accompanies salvation is a 
working faith, a lively faith, and not such a dead faith as most please 
and deceive themselves with for ever. 

[2.] The second property of that faith that accompanies salvation is 
this : it is of a growing and increasing nnture. It is like the waters 
of the sanctuary, that rise higher and higher, as Ezekiel speaks. It is 
like a tender plant, that naturally grows higher and higher ; it is like a 
grain of mustard-seed, which though it be the least of all seeds, yet by 
a divine power it grows up beyond all human expectations. Mat. xiii. 32. 
Faith is imperfect, as all other graces are, but yet it grows and increases 
gradually •} Rom. i. 17, ' For therein is the righteousness of God re- 
vealed from faith to faith : as it is written, The just shall live by 
faith.' As a gracious soul is still a-adding knowledge to knowledge^ 
love to love, fear to fear, zeal to zeal, so he is a-adding faith to faith. A 
gracious soul knows, that if he be rich in faith he cannot be poor in 
other graces ; he knows the growth of faith will be as * the former and 
the latter rain' to all other graces ; he knows that there is no way to 
outgrow his fears but by growing in faith ; he knows that all the plea- 
sant fruits of paradise^ viz., joy, comfort, and peace, flourishes as faith 
flourishes ; he knows that he hath much work upon his hands, that he 
hath many things to do, many temptations to withstand, many mercies 
to improve, many burdens to bear, many corruptions to conquer, many 
duties to perform. And this makes the believing soul thus to reason 
with God : Ah, Lord ! whatever I am weak in, let me be strong in faith ^ 
whatever dies, let faith live ; whatever decays, let faith flourish.'^ Lord, 
let me be low in repute, low in parts, low in estate, so thou wilt make 
me high in faith. Lord ! let me be poor in anything, poor in every- 
thing, so thou wilt make me rich in faith. Lord ! let the eye of faith 
be more opened, let the eye of faith be more quick-sighted, let the eye 
of faith be the more raised, and it shall be enough to me, though Joseph 
be not, though Benjamin be not. 

It was the glory of the Thessalonians, that ' their faith grew exceed- 
ingly,' 2 Thess. i. 3. A growth in faith will render a man glorious in 
life, lovely in death, and twice blessed in the morning of the resurrec- 
tion.* So will not a growth in honours, a growth in riches, a growth 
in notions, a growth in opinions. That faith that accompanies salva- 
tion unites the soul to Christ, and keeps the soul up in communion 
with Christ. And from that union and communion that the soul hath 
with Christ, flows such a divine power and virtue, that causes faith to 
grow.* 

1 The righteous shall flourish like the palm tree, Ps. xcii. 12-14. Now, the palm tree 
never loseth his leaf or fruit, saith Pliny. 

2 An old man being once asked if he grew in grace, answered, Yea, doubtless I be- 
lieve I do ; for God hath said in his word that we shall flourish and bring forth fruit in 
oldi age. Ille non est bonus, qui non vull esse melior. 

3 That is but a wooden leg that grows not, no more is] that any more but a wooden 
faith, a counterfeit faith, that grows not. 

* The union between Christ and the saints is the nearest and the highest union; and 



454 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIIL 32-34. 

Yet that no weak believer may be stumbled, or sadded, let them 
remember, 

(1.) That though that faith that accompanies salvation be a growing 
faith, yet there are some certain seasons and cases wherein a man may 
decay in his faith, and wherein he may not have the exercise and the 
actings of his faith. This blessed babe of grace may be cast into a 
deep slumber ; this heavenly pearl may be so buried under the thick 
clay of this world, and under the ashes of corruption and temptation, as 
that for a time it may neither stir, nor grow, as might be shewn in Abra- 
ham, David, Solomon, Peter, and others. 

(2.) Secondly, Remember this, that the strongest faith at times is 
subject to shakings, as the strongest men are to faintings, as the stout- 
est ships are to tossings,, as the wisest men are to doubtings, as the 
brightest stars are to twinklings, &c. Therefore, if at certain times 
thou shouldst not be sensible of the growth of thy faith, yet do not con- 
clude that thou hast no faith. Faith may be in the habit when it ia 
not in the act. There may be life in the root of the tree, when there 
is neither leaves, blossoms, nor fruit upon the tree ; the life that is in 
the root will shew itself at the spring, and so will the habits of faith break 
forth into acts, when the Sun of righteousness shall shine forth, and 
make it a pleasant spring to thy soul. And thus much for this second 
particular. 

[3.] The third property of that faith that accompanies salvation is 
this : it makes those things that are great and glorious in the world's 
account to he very little and low in the eyes of the believer. Faith 
makes a believer to live in the land of promise as in a strange country, 
Heb. XL 9. It is nothing to live as a stranger in a strange land, but to 
\\ye as a stranger in the land of promise, this is the excellency and glory 
of faith. 

Faith will make a man set his feet where other men sets their hearts. 
Faith looks with an eye of scorn and disdain upon the things of this 
world. What, says faith, are earthly treasures to the treasures of 
heaven ? What are stones to silver, dross to gold, darkness to light, 
hell to heaven 1 Mat. vi. 19, 20. No more, says faith, are all the trea- 
sures, pleasures, and delights of this world, to the light of thy counte- 
nance, to the joy of thy Spirit, to the influences of thy grace, Ps. iv. 6, 7. 
I see nothing, says David, in this wide world, only * thy commandments 
are exceeding broad.' Faith makes David account his crown nothing, 
his treasures nothing^, his victories nothing, his attendants nothintj, &c. 
Faith will make a man write nothing upon the best of worldly things ; 
it will make a man trample upon the pearls of this world, as upon dross 
and dung, Heb. xi. 24-26. Faith deadens a man's heart to the things 
of this world : ' I am crucified to the world, and the world is crucified 
to me,' says Paul, Philip, iii. 8 ; Gal. vi. 14. This world, says faith, is 
not my house, my habitation, my home; I look for a better country, for 
a better city, for a better home, 2 Cor. v. 1, 2. He that is adopted heir 
to a crown, a kingdom, looks with an eye of scorn and disdain upon 
everything below a kingdom, below a crown. Faith tells the soul that 

80 it advantages their graces, and advances them to a higher degree of happiness than 
any other creatures whatsoever, John xvii. Christ would have his people one with him 
and the Father, though not essentially, nor personally, yet really and spiritually. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 455 

it hath a crown, a kingdom in reversion ; and this makes the soul to set 
light by the things of this world, 2 Tim. iv. 8. Faith raises and sets 
the soul high. ' And hath raised us up together, and hath made us sit 
together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus,' saith the apostle, Eph. 
ii. 6. Faith makes a man live high : ' Our conversation is in heaven,' 
Philip, iii. 20; and the liigher any man lives, the less, the lower will 
the things of this world be in his eye. The fancy of Lucian is very 
pleasant, who placeth Charon on the top of an high hill, viewing all 
the affairs of men, and looking on their greatest, richest, and most 
glorious cities, as little birds' nests. Faith sets the soul upon the hill of 
God, the mountain of God, that is, a high mountain ; and from thence, 
faith gives the soul a sight, a prospect of all things here below. And, 
ah ! how like birds' nests do all the riches, braveries, and glories of 
this world look, and appear to them, that faith hath set upon God's high 
hill. Faith having set Luther upon this high hill, he protests that 
God should not put him off with these poor low things. Faith set 
Moses high, it set him among invisibles ; and that made him look upon 
all the treasures, pleasures, riches, and glories of Egypt, as littLs birds' 
nests, as mole-hills, as dross and dung, as things that were too little and 
too low for him to set his heart upon. Verily, when once faith hath given 
a man a sight, a prospect of heaven, all things on earth will be looked 
upon as little and low. And so much for this third property of 
faith. 

[4.] The fourth property of that faith that accompanies salvation is 
this : it purifies the heart, it is a heart-purifying faith. ' Purifying 
their hearts by faith,' Acts xv. 9. Faith hath two hands, one to lay hold 
on Christ, and another to sweep the heart, which is Christ's house. Faith 
knows that Christ is of a dove-like nature ; he loves to lie clean and 
sweet. Faith hath a neat housewife's hand, as well as an eagle's eye. 
Faith is as good at purging out of sin, as it is at discovering of sin. 
There is a cleansing quality in faith, as well as a healing quality in 
faith. Sound faith will purge the soul from the love of sin, from a 
delight in sin, and from the reign and dominion of sin, Ezek. xvi. ' Sin 
shall not have dominion over you ; for ye are not under the law, but 
under grace,' Rom. vi. 14, 21. Now faith purges and cleanseth the 
heart from sin, sometimes by pressing and putting God to make good 
the promises of sanctification. Faith takes that promise in Jer. xxxiii. 8, 
'And I will cleanse them from all their iniquity, whereby they have 
sinned against me;'' and that promise in Micah vii. 19, * He will turn 
again, he will have compassion upon us ; he will subdue our iniquities, 
and thou wilt cast all their sins into the bottom of the sea ;' and that 
promise in Ps. Ixv. 3, * Iniquities prevail against me ; as for our trans- 
gressions, thou shalt purge them away ;' and that promise in Isa. i. 25, 
' And I will turn my hand upon thee, and purely purge away thy dross, 
and take away all thy tin;' and spreads them before the Lord, and will 
never leave urging and pressing, seeking and suing, till God makes 
them good. Faith makes the soul divinely impudent, divinely shame- 
less. Lord ! says faith, are not these thine own words? Hast thou said it, 

^ D^mntSI, I will purify them, is an allusion to the purificfjtions prescribed in the 
law for the cleansing of polluted persons, till which purifications were performed they 
could not be admitted into the camp or congregation. 



456 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

and shall it not come to pass ? Art thou not a faithful God ? Is not 
thine honour engaged to make good the promises that thou hast made ? 
Arise, O God, and let my sins be scattered ; turn thy hand upon me, 
and let my sins be purged. And thus faith purifies the heart. 

Again, sometimes faith purifies the heart from sin, by engaging 
against sin in Christ's strength, as David engaged against Goliath, 
1 Sam. xvii. 47, not in his own strength, but in the strength and name 
of the Lord of hosts. Faith leads the soul directly to God, and en- 
gages God against sin, so as that the combat, by the wisdom of faith, 
is changed, and made now rather between God and sin than between 
sin and the soul ; and so sin comes to fall before the power and glorious 
presence of God. That is a choice word, Ps. Ixi. 2, ' From the ends of 
the earth will I cry to thee, when my heart is overwhelmed : lead me' 
to the rock that is higher than I.' Look, as a child that is set upon 
by one that is stronger than he, cries out to his father to help him, to 
stand by him, and to engage for him against his enemy ; so faith, being 
sensible of its own weakness and inability to get the victory over sin, 
cries out to Christ, and engages Christ, who is stronger than the strong 
man, and so Christ binds the strong man, and casts him out. Faith 
tells the soul, that all purposes, resolutions, and endeavours, without 
Christ be engaged, wall never set the soul above its sins, they will 
never purify the heart from sin ; therefore faith engages Christ, and 
casts the main of the work upon Christ, and so it purges the soul from 
sin. Luther reports of Staupicius, a German divine, that he acknow- 
ledged, before he came to understand the free and powerful grace of 
Christ, that he vowed and resolved an hundred times against some 
particular sin, and could never get power over it ; he could never get 
his heart purified from it, till he came to see that he trusted too mach 
to his own resolutions, and too little to Jesus Christ ; but when his faith 
had engaged Christ against his sin, he had the victory. 

Again, faith purifies the heart from sin, by the application of Christ's 
blood. Faith makes a plaster of Christ's blessed blood, and lays it on 
upon the soul's sores, and so cures it. Faith makes a heavenly vomit 
of this blessed blood, and gives it to the soul, and so makes it cast up 
that poison that it hath drunk in.^ Faith tells the soul, that it is not 
all the tears in the world, nor all the water in the sea, that can wash 
away the uncleanness of the soul ; it is only the blood of Christ that 
can make a blackmoor white ; it is only the blood of Christ that can 
cure a leprous Naaman, that can cure a leprous soul. This fountain of 
blood, says faith, is the only fountain for Judah and Jerusalem to wash 
themselves, to wash their hearts from all uncleanness and filthiness of 
flesh and spirit, Zech. xiii. 1. Those spots a Christian finds in his own 
heart, can only be washed out in the blood of the Lamb, by a hand of 
faith. 

Again, faith purifieth the soul from sin, by putting the soul upon 
heart-purifying ordinances, and by mixing and mingling itself with 
ordinances : ' The word profited them not,' saith the apostle, ' because 
it was not mixed with faith in them that heard it,' Heb. iv. 2. Faith 
is such an excellent ingredient, that it makes all potions work for the 

> It is the excellency of faitb, that it can turn the blood of Christ both into food and 
into physic. 



Rom. VIII. 82-34.] heaven on earth. 457 

good of the soul, for the purifying of the soul, and for the bettering of 
the soul; and no potion, no means will profit the soul, if this heavenly 
ingredient be not mixed with it. Now, faith puts a m&n upon praying, 
upon hearing, upon the fellowship of the saints, upon public duties, 
upon family duties, and upon closet duties ; and faith in these comes 
and joins with the soul, and mixes herself with these soul-purifying 
ordinances, and so makes them effectual for the purifying of the soul 
more and more from all filthiness and uncleanness.^ Faith puts out all 
her virtue and efficacy in ordinances, to the purging of souls from their 
dross and tin ; not that faith in this life shall wholly purify the soul 
from the being of sin, or from the motions or operations of sin, no f 
for then we should have our heaven in this world, and then we might 
bid ordinances adieu; but that faith that accompanies salvation doth 
naturally purify and cleanse the heart from the remainders of sin by 
degrees. Sound faith is still a-making the heart more and more neat 
and clean, that the king of glory may delight in his habitation, that he 
may not remove his court, but may abide with the soul for ever. And 
thus you see that that faith that accompanies salvation is a heart- 
purifying faith. 

(5.) The fifth propeHy of that faith that accompanies salvation is 
this : it is soul-softening, it is soul-mollifying. Oh nothing breaks the 
heart of a sinner like faith. Peter believes soundly, and weeps bitterly, 
Mat. xxvi 75 ; Mary Magdalene believes much, and weeps much, Luke 
vii. 44. Faith sets a wounded Christ, a bruised Christ, a despised 
Christ, a pierced Christ, a bleeding Christ before the soul, and this 
makes the soul sit down and weep bitterly : ' I will pour upon the 
house of David, the Spirit of grace and of supplications ; and they shall 
look upon him whom they have pierced, and they shall mourn for him ' 
(all gospel-mourning flows from believing), ' as one moumeth for his 
only son, and shall be in bitterness for him, as one that is in bitterness 
for his first-born,' Zech. xii. 10, &c. Oh ! the sight of those wounds that 
their sins have made, will wound their hearts through and through ; 
it will make them lament over Christ with a bitter lamentation. They 
say nothing will dissolve the adamant but the blood of a goat. Ah ! 
nothing will kindly, sweetly, and effectually break the hardened heart 
of a sinner, but faith's beholding the blood of Christ trickling down his 
sides. Pliny reports of a serpent, that when it stings, it fetches all the 
blood out of the body ;' but it was never heard that ever any sweat 
blood but Christ, and the very thoughts of this makes the believing 
soul to sit down sweating and weeping. That Christ should love man 
when he was most unlovely, that man's extreme misery should but 
inflame Christ's bowels of love and mercy, this melts the believing soul. 
That Christ should leave the eternal bosom of his Father ; that he that 
was equal with God should come in the form of a servant ; that he that 
■was clothed with glory, and bom a king, should be wrapped in rags ; 
that he that the heaven of heavens could not contain should be cradled 
in a manger ; that from his cradle to his cross, his whole life should be 

I Ab Christ came and joined himself to his disciples. 

' Sin is like the wild fig tree, or ivy in the wall, cut off stump, body, bough, and 
branches, yet some sprigs or other will sprout out again, till the wall be plucked down, 
&c. * Nat. Hist., sub serpenie, &c. — G. 



458 HEAVEN ON EAETH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

a life of sorrows and sufferings ; that the judge of all flesh should be 
condemned ; that the Lord of life should be put to death ; that he that 
was his Father's joy should in anguish of spirit cry out, ' My God, my 
God, why hast thou forsaken me V that that head that was crowned 
with honour should be crowned with thorns ; that those eyes that were 
as a flame of fire, that were clearer than the sun, should be closed up 
by the darkness of death ; that those ears which were wont to hear nothing 
but hallelujahs should hear nothing but blasphemies ; that that face 
that was white and ruddy should be spit upon by the beastly Jews ; 
that that tongue that spake as never man spake, yea, as never angel 
spake, should be accused of blasphemy; that those hands which swayed 
both a golden sceptre and an iron rod, and those feet that were as fine 
brass, should be nailed to the cross ; and all this for man's transgression, 
for man's rebellion : Oh ! the sight of these things, the believing of 
these things, the acting of faith on these things, makes a gracious soul 
to break and bleed, to sigh and groan, to mourn and lament. That 
faith that accompanies salvation is more or less a heart-breaking, a 
heart-melting faith. 

(6.) The sixth property of that faith that accompanies salvation is 
this : it is a world-conquering faith, it is a world-overcoming faith. 
1 John V. 4, ' For whatsoever is bom of God overcometh the world ; 
and this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith.' 
Faith overcomes the frowning world, the fawning world, the tempting 
world, and the persecuting world, and that it doth thus : 

(1.) Faith, by uniting the soul to Christ, doth interest the soul in all 
the victories and conquests of Christ, and so makes the soul a con- 
queror with Christ : John xvi. 33, * These things have I spoken unto 
you, that in me ye might have peace ; in the world ye shall have tribu- 
lation, but be of good cheer, I have overcome the world.' We have to 
deal but with a conquered enemy ; our Jesus hath given the world a 
mortal wound ; we have nothing to do but to set our feet upon a 
subdued enemy, and to sing it out with the apostle, ' Over all these 
we are more than conquerors,' Rom. viii. 37. 

(2.) Faith overcomes the world by out-bidding sights ; faith out-bids 
the world, and so makes the soul victorious. The world set honours, 
pleasures, &c., before Moses, but his faith out-bid the world. It pre- 
sents the recompence of reward, it brings down all the glory, pleasures, 
and treasures of heaven, of that other world, and sets them before the 
soul ; and so it overtops and overc(ynes the world by out-bidding it. So 
Christ, 'for the joy that was set before him, endured the cross, despising 
the shame,' Heb. xii. 2. 

(3.) Faith overcomes the world by telling the soul that all things are 
its own. Says faith, This God is thy God, this Christ is thy Christ, 
this righteousness is thy righteousness, this promise is thy promise, this 
crown is thy crown, this glory is thy glory, these treasures are thy 
treasures, these pleasures are thy pleasures. * All things are yours,' 
saith the apostle, ' things present are yours, and things to come are 
yours,' 1 Cor. iii. 22. Thus the faith of the martyrs acted, and so made 
them victorious over a tempting and a persecuting world, Heb. xi. 35. 

(4.) Faith overcomes the world by valuing the things of this world 
as they are. Most men overvalue them, they put too great a price 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 459 

upon them, they make the world a god, and then they cry, ' Great is 
Diana of the Ephesians.' Oh but faith now turns the inside of all 
creatures outward, faith presents all worldly things as impotent, as 
mixed, as mutable, as momentary to the soul, and so makes the soul 
victorious. Faith makes a man to sde the prickles that be in every 
rose, the thorns that be in every crown, the scabs that be under every 
gown, the poison that is in the golden cup, the snare that is in the 
delicate dish, the spot that is in the shining pearl, and so makes a 
Christian count and call all these things, as indeed they are, ' vanity of 
vanities,' and so the believing soul slights the world, and tramples upon 
it as dung and dross. And lastly, • 

(5.) Faith overcomes the world, by presenting Jesus Christ to the 
soul as a most excellent, glorious, and comprehensive good, as such a 
good that comprehends all good.^ Christ is that one good that compre- 
hends all good, that one thing that comprehends all things. All the 
beauties, all the rarities, all the excellencies, all the riches, all the 
glories of all created creatures, are comprehended in Christ. As the 
. worth and value of many pieces of silver is connected in one piece of 
gold, or in one precious jewel, so all the whole volume of perfections 
which is spread through heaven and earth is epitomised in Christ ; and 
the sight and sense of this makes the soul to triumph over the world. 
Faith presents more excellencies and better excellencies in Christ than 
can be lost for Christ, and so it makes the soul a conqueror. 

I have been long upon these things, because they are of much weight 
and worth : I shall be the briefer in what follows. But before I leave 
this pomt, I shall give you these hints : 

In the first place, I shall give you some hints concerning strong 
faith. 

In the second place, I shall give you some hints concerning weak 
faith. 

My design in both is, to keep precious souls from mistaking and 
fainting. Concerning strong faith, I shall give you these short hints : 

(1.) The first hint. Strong faith will make a soul resolute in resist- 
ing, and happy in conquering the strongest temptations, Heb. xi. 3, &c., 
Dan. vi. 10, &c. 

(2.) The second hint. It will make a man own God, and cleave to 
God, and hang upon God, in the face of the greatest difficulties and 
dangers, Rom. iv, 18, &c., Ps. xliv. 16-18. So Job will trust in God 
though he slay him. Job xiii. 15, 16. 

(3.) The third hint. It will enable men to prefer Christ's cross be- 
fore the world's crown, to prefer tortures before deliverance, Heb. xi. 
3, &c. 

(4.) The fourth hint. Strong faith will make a soul divinely fear- 
less, and divinely careless ; it will make a man live as the child lives 
in the family, without fear or care, Ps. xxiii. 4. Dan. iii. 16, 'We are 
not careful to answer thee, O king ; our God whom we serve is able to 
deliver us, and he will deliver us,' &c. Micah vii. 7-9. 

(5.) The fifth hint. Strong faith will make a man cleave to the 
promise when providence runs cross to the promise, Num. x. 29, 

1 Omnia vita infidelium peceatum est, et nihil bonum tine aummo bono. — Augustine. There 
is no good without Christ, the chiefest good. 



460 HEAVEN ON EAKTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34;. 

2 Chron. xx. 9-11. Ps. Ix. 6, 7, 'God hath spoken in his holiness,' saith 
David ; * I will rejoice : I will divide Shechem, and mete out the valley 
of Succoth. Gilead is mine, and Manasseh is mine,' &c.^ Though 
David was in his banishment, yet his faith accounts all his as if he had 
all in possession, and that because God had spoken in his holiness. His 
faith hangs upon the promise, though present providences did run cross 
to the promise, &c. 

(6.) The sixth hint. Strong faith will make men comply with those 
commands that do most cross them in their most desirable comforts, 
Heb. xi. 8, 9, and x. 31< ; Gen. xxii. 

Now, O precious souls ! you are not to argue against your own souls, 
that surely you have no faith, because that your faith doth not lead you 
forth to such and such noble things. Thou mayest have true faith, 
though thou hast not so great faith as others of the Lord's worthies 
have had.^ 

The philosophers say that there are eight degrees of heat : we dis- 
cern three. Now, if a man should define heat only by the highest de- 
gree, then all other degrees will be cast out from being heat. So if a 
man should define faith only by the highest degrees and operations of 
it, then that will be denied from being faith that indeed is faith, as I 
shall presently shew. 

In the second place, I shall give you some hints concerning weak 
faith. 

(1.) The first hint A weak faith doth as much justify and as much 
unite a man to Christ as a strong faith. It gives a man as much pro- 
priety and interest in Christ as the strongest faith in the world. The 
babe hath as much interest in the father as he that is of grown years. 
A weak faith gives a man as good a title to Christ, and all the precious 
things of eternity, as the strongest faith in the world. A weak hand 
may receive a pearl as well as the strong hand of a giant.' Faith is a 
receiving of Christ, John i. 12. 

(2.) The second hint. The promises of eternal happiness and bless- 
edness are not made over to the strength of faith, but to the truth of 
faith ; not to the degrees of faith, but to the reality of faith. He that 
believes shall be saved, though he hath not such a strength of faith as 
to stop the mouth of lions, as to work miracles, as to remove mountains, 
as to subdue kingdoms, as to quench the violence of fire, as to resist 
strong temptations, as to rejoice under great persecutions, Heb. xi. 33-35. 
No man that is saved is saved upon the account of the strength of his 
faith, but upon the account of the truth of his faith. In the great day 
Christ will not bring balances to weigh men's graces, but a touch-stone 
to try their graces ; he will not look so much at the strength as at the 
truth of their graces. 

(3.) The third hint. The weakest faith shall grow stronger and 
stronger. A weak believer shall go on from faith to faith. Christ is 
the finisher as well as the author af our faith^ Rom. i. 17, Heb. xii. 2. 
Christ will nurse up this blessed babe, and will not suffer it to be 

> So Joshua and Caleb, Num. xiv. 22-24. 

» As it is dangerous to make false definitions of sin, so it is dangerous to make false 
definitions of grace. 
» But a babe cannot improve bis interest, as be that is of grown years, 2 Peter i. 1. 



Rom. VIIL 32-34.] heaven on earth. 461 

strangled in its infancy. He that hath begun a good work will perfect it, 
Philip, i. 6, 1 Peter i. 5. Christ is as well bound to look after our graces 
as he is to look after our souls. Grace is Christ's work, therefore it must 
prosper in his hand ; he is the great builder and repairer of our graces ; 
he will turn thy spark into a flame, thy drop into an ocean, thy penny 
into a pound, thy mite into a million. Mat. xii. 20, and xiii. 32. There- 
fore do not sit down discouraged because thy faith is weak. That which 
is sowed in weakness, shall rise in power. Thy weak faith shall have a 
glorious resurrection. Christ will not suffer such a pearl of price to be 
buried under a clod of earth. 

(4.) The fourth hint. A little faith is faith, as a spark of fire is fire, 
a drop of water is water, a little star is a star, a little pearl is a pearl. 
Verily, thy little faith is a jewel that God doth highly prize and value; 
and thy little faith will make thee put a higher price upon Christ and 
grace than upon all the world. Mat. xviii. 10, 1 Peter ii. 7. Well ! re- 
member this, that the least measure of true faith will bring thee to sal- 
vation, and possess thee of salvation, as well as the greatest measure. 
A little faith accompanies salvation as well as a great faith, a weak faith 
as well as a strong. Therefore do not say, precious soul, that thou 
hast not that faith that accompanies salvation, because thou hast not 
such a strong faith, or such and such degrees of faith. A great faith 
will yield a man a heaven here, a little faith will peld him a heaven 
hereafter. 

The third thing that I am to shew you is, what repentance that is 
that accompanies salvation. That repentance doth accompany salva- 
tion I have formerly shewed. Now, I shall manifest in the following 
particulars what repentance that is that doth accompany salvation, that 
comprehends salvation, that borders upon salvation. 

(1.) The first property. First, That repentance that accompanies 
salvation, is a general, a universal change of the whole man; a change 
in every part, though it be hut in part. That repentance that accom- 
panies salvation changes both heart and life, word and work ; it makes 
an Ethiopian an Israelite, a leper an angel. ' Wash ye, make you 
clean ;' there is the change of your hearts. ' Put away the evil of your 
doings from before mine eyes, cease to do evil, learn to do well,' Isa. i. 
16-18 ; there is the change of their practices. 

So the prophet Ezekiel, ' Cast away all your transgressions,' saith he, 
'whereby you have transgressed ;' there is the change of life: 'And 
make you a new heart, and a new spirit,' Ezek. xviii. 30-32 ; there is 
the change of the heart.^ That repentance that accompanies salvation 
works a change in the whole man ; in all the qualities of the inward 
man, and in all the actions of the outward man. The understanding is 
turned from darkness to light ; the will from a sinful servility to a holy 
liberty ; the affections from disorder into order ; the heart from hard- 
ness into softness. So in the outward man, the wanton eye is turned 
into an eye of chastity ; the uncircumcised ear is turned into an obedient 
ear ; the hands of bribery are turned into hands of liberality ; and the 

' True repentance is a thorough change both of the mind and manners. Optima et 
optissima poenitentia est nova vita, saith Luther. It is said, that upon one's preaching, 
Kepent, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand, there followed almost everywhere, 
Delictorum pcenitentia, morum reformatio, omnium contritio, cessabant blaspkemice, alece ludi. 



462 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

wandering feet of vanity are turned into ways of purity. And verily, 
that repentance that changes a man in some part, but not in every part, 
that only makes a man a Herod, or an Agrippa, a half Christian, an 
almost Christian, that repentance will never bring down heaven into a 
man's bosom here, nor never bring a man up to heaven hereafter. That 
repentance that accompanies salvation makes a man all glorious within, 
and his raiment to be of embroidered gold, Ps. xlv. 13 ; it stamps the 
image of God both upon the inward and the outward man ; it makes 
the heart like the ark, all gold within ; and it makes the life like the 
sun, all glorious without. 

(2.) The second property. Secondly, That repentance that accom- 
panies salvation is a total turning as well as an universal turning ; 
a turning from all sin, without any reservation or exception. ' I hate 
and abhor every false way, but thy law do I love,' Ps. cxix. 163. So 
in Ezek. xviii. 30, ' Therefore I will judge you, O house of Israel, every 
one according to his ways, saith the Lord God. Repent, and turn your- 
selves from all your transgressions ; so iniquity shall not be your ruin.' 
So in Ezek. xxxiii. 11. As Noah's flood drowned his nearest and his 
dearest friends, so the flood of penitent tears drowns men's nearest and 
their dearest lusts. Be they Isaacs or Benjamins, be they right eyes 
or right hands, repentance that accompanies salvation puts all to the 
sword ; it spares neither father nor mother, neither Agag nor Achan ; 
it casts off all the rags of old Adam ; it leaves not a horn nor a hoof 
behind ; it throws down every stone of the old building ; it scrapes off 
all leviathan's scales ; it washeth away all leprous spots.* Ezek. xiv. 6, 
' Therefore say unto the house of Israel, Thus saith the Lord God, Re- 
pent, and turn yourselves from your idols ; and turn away your faces 
from all your abominations.' Sin is a turning the back upon God, and 
the face towards hell ; but repentance is a turning the back upon sin, 
and a setting the face towards God. He that looks upon Jerusalem and 
upon Babylon with a leering eye at the same time ; he that looks upon 
God, and at the same time looks upon any sin with a leering eye,^ hath 
not yet reached unto this repentance that accompanies salvation ; his 
repentance and profession cannot secure him from double damnation. 
He that serves God in some things, and his lusts in other things, says 
to God as David said to Mephibosheth concerning his lands, ' Thou 
and Ziba divide the lands,' 1 Sam. xix. 2.9 ; so thou and Satan divide 
my soul, my heart between you. Ah ! doth not such a soul deserve a 
double hell ? Christ takes every sin at a penitent man's hands, as Ctesar 
did his wounds from him of whom he merited better usage, with, xa; gu 
fiou rv/.vov, ' And thou, my son.' What, thou wound me ! what, thou stab 
me ! that shouldst venture thy own blood to save mine V 

There are no wounds that are so grievous and terrible to Christ, as 
those that he receives in the house of his friends, and this sets the peni- 
tent man's heart and hand against^ everything that makes against 

^ True hatred ia ili vk yinfi, to the whole kind. — Aristotle. And God has engaged him- 
self to cleanse the hearts of his people from all, and to set their souls against all, Jer. 
xxxiii. 8 ; Ezek, xxxvi 25, 29, 33 ; 1 John i. 9. Repentance for sin is nothing worth with- 
out repentance from sin. * Thus did Herod and Judas, to their eternal ruin, James ii. 20. 

' One stab at the heart kills, one hole in the ship sinks her, one act of treason makes 
a traitor ; so one sin not forsaken, not turned from, will undo a soul for ever. Sin ever 
ends tragically, and this puts the penitent in battle array against every sin. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 463 

Christ. A true penitent looks upon every sin as poison, as the vomit of 
a dog, as the mire of the street, as the menstruous cloth, which of all 
things in the law was most unclean, defiling, and polluting. Pliny saith 
that the very trees, with touching of it, would become barren.^ And 
his looking thus upon every sin, turns his heart against every sin, and 
makes him not only to refrain from sin, but to forsake it, and to loathe 
it more than hell. 

(3.) The third property. Thirdly, That repentance that accompanies 
salvation is not only a turning from all sin, but it is also a turning 
unto Ood.^ It is not only a ceasing from doing evil, but it is also a 
learning to do well ; it is not only a turning from darkness, but it is also 
a turning to light; as the apostle speaks, Acts xxvi. 18, ' To open their 
eyes, and to turn them from darkness to light, and from the power of 
Satan unto God.' So in Isa. Iv. 7, * Let the wicked forsake his ways, 
and the unrighteous man his thoughts, and let him return unto the 
Lord,' &c. It is not enough for the man of iniquity to forsake his evil 
way, but he must also return unto the Lord ; he must subject his heart 
to the power of divine grace, and his life to the will and word of God. 
As negative goodness can never satisfy a gracious soul, so negative 
goodness can never save a sinful soul. It is not enough that thou art 
thus and thus bad, but thou must be thus and thus good, or thou art 
undone for ever: Ezek. xviii. 21, 'But if the wicked will turn from all 
his sins that he hath committed, and keep all my statutes, and do that 
which is lawful and right, he shall surely live, he shall not die.' Nega- 
tive righteousness and holiness is no righteousness, no holiness, in the 
account of God. It was not the pharisee's negative righteousness, nor 
his comparative goodness, that could prevent his being rejected of God, 
his being shut out of heaven, his burning in hell, Luke xviii. 5, Mat. 
XX. 13, 14. It is not enough that the tree bears no ill fruit, but it must 
bring forth good fruit, else it must be cut down and cast into the fire. 
That tree that is not for fruit is for the fire. 'Every tree that brings 
not forth good fruit,' says Christ, 'is hewn down, and cast into the fire,' 
Mat. vii. 19. Men that content themselves with negative righteousness, 
shall find at last heaven-gates bolted upon them with a double bolt. 
All that negative righteousness and holiness can do, is to help a man to 
* one of the best chambers and easiest beds in hell. That repentance 
that accompanies salvation brings the heart and life not only off from 
sin, but on to God; it makes a man not only cease from walking in the 
ways of death, but it makes him walk in the ways of life : ' They do no 
iniquity, they walk in his ways,' Ps. cxix. 3.^ 

(4.) The fourth property. Fourthly, That repentance that accom- 
panies salvation, strikes most effectually and particularly against that 
sin or sins, that the sinner was most apt and prone to before his con- 
version. The hand of repentance is most dgainst that sin, it is most 

* Tsa. XXX. 22. Nihil in lege menstruosd immundius Jerome. [Pliny, Nat. Hist,, lib. 

xxviii. cap. 23 — G.] 

« The Hebrew word for repentance is from 31^, ahoh, which signifies to return, 
implying a going back from what a man had done. It notes a returning or converting 
from one thing to anotlier, as from sin to God, from evil to good, from hell to heaven. 

3 rie that holds not wholly with Christ, doth very shamefully neglect Christ, Aut 
totum mecum tene, aut tolum omitte. — Gregory Nazianzen. And therefore if Christ 
trample upon them at last, it is just. 



464) HEAVEN ON EAETH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

upon that sin that the soul hath looked most with a leering eye upon.' 
The chief and principal sius that Israel was guilty of, was idolatry and 
sinful compliance. Now, when God works kindly upon them, they put 
the hand of repentance upon those particular sins, as you may see : 
Isa, xxvii. 9, ' By this, therefore, shall the iniquity of Jacob be purged, 
and this is all the fruit to take away his sin : when he maketh all the 
stones of the altar as chalk stones, that are beaten in sunder, the groves 
and images shall not stand up.'* Here you see, when God appears and 
acts graciously for and towards his people, they put the hand of repent- 
ance upon their groves and images ; these must down, these must no 
longer stand. The groves and the images shall not stand up, they shall 
be utterly abandoned and destroyed, demolished, and abolished. So in 
Isa. XXX. 22, ' Ye shall defile also the covering of thy graven images of 
silver, and the ornament of thy molten images of gold : thou shalt cast 
them away as a menstruous cloth ; thou shalt say unto it. Get thee 
hence.' Here you see the hand of repentance is against their idols of 
silver and gold ; and not only against their idols, b\it also against what- 
soever had any relation to them. Now they shew nothing but a 
detestation of their idols, and a holy indignation against them : ' Get 
you hence.'^ The hand of repentance makes a divorce between them 
and their idols, between their souls and their especial sins. Now they 
are as much in hating, abhorring, abominating, and contemning their 
idols and images, as they were formerly in adoring, worshipping, and 
honouring of them. So Mary Magdalene, Luke vii., walks quite cross 
and contrary to her former self, her sinful self, she crosses the flesh in 
those very things wherein formerly she did gratify the flesh. So the 
penitent jailor. Acts xvi., washes those very wounds that his own bloody 
hands had made. He acts in ways of mercy, quite contrary to his former 
cruelty. At first there was none so fierce, so furious, so cruel, so 
bloody, so inhuman in his carriage to the apostles ; at last, none so 
gentle, so soft, so sweet, so courteous, so affectionate to them. The 
same you may see in Zaccheus, Luke xix. 8, &c. In Paul, Acts ix., 
and in Manasseh, in 2 Chron. xxxiii. 6, 

(5.) The fifth property. Fifthly, That repentance that accompanies 
salvation, is very large and coTnprehensive. It comprehends and takes 
in these following particulars, besides those already named. • 

[1 .] Jt takes in a sight and sense of sin. Men must first see their 
sins, they must be sensible of their sins, before they can repent of their 
sins. Ephraim had first a sight of his sin, and then he repents and 
turns from his sin. ' After I was instructed, I smote upon my thigh,' 
Jer. xxxi. 18, 19. A man first sees himself out of the way, before he 
returns into the way. Till he sees that he is out of the way, he walks 
still on, but when he perceives that he is out of the way, then he begins 
to make inquiry after the right way. So when the sinner comes to 

• Augustine, a great sinner, wrote twelve books of repentance, and walked most cross 
to the particular sins he had most lived in. 

' This was the great sin of Israel, but after their return out of captivity, they never 
set up idols more, but were wonderful zealous to keep their temple from such defilements, 
both in the time of Antiochus Epiphanes, and of the Romans, and do account them as a 
menstruous cloth, to this \ery day. 

' The Jews were willing in the Romans' time, rather [to] die than to suffer the eagle, 
the imperial arms, to be set upon the temple. 



i 



Rom. VIII. 32-34<.] heaven on earth. 465 

see his- way to be a way of death, then he cries out, *0h lead me in the 
way of life, lead me in the way everlasting,' Ps. cxxxix. 24.^ 

[2.] For I shall but touch upon these things. That repentance that 
accompanies salvation, doth include not only a sight and sense of sin, 
but also confession and aclcnowledgntient of sin.^ Ps. li., and Ps. 
xxxii. 3-5, ' While I kept close my sin, my bones consumed ; but I 
said, I will confess my sin, and thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin ;' 
Job xxxiii. 21-27. The promise of remission is made to confession. 
1 John i. 9, ' If we confess our sins, God is faithful and just to forgive 
us our sins.' So Pro v. xxviii. 13, 'He that hideth his sin, shall not 
prosper, but he that confesseth and forsaketh it, shall find mercy.' If 
we confess our sins sincerely, seriously, humbly, cordially, pardon 
attends us. Homo agnoscit, deus ignoscit. Confession of sin must be 
joined with confusion of sin, or all is lost, God is lost, Christ is lost, 
heaven lost, and the soul lost for ever.^ 

The true penitent can say, with Vivaldus, ' I hide not my sins, but I 
shew them ; I wipe them not away, but I sprinkle them ; I do not ex- 
cuse them, but I accuse them.' Peccata enim non nocent, si non 
placent, ' My sins hurt me not, if I like them not ;' the beginning of 
my salvation is the knowledge of my transgression. 

[3.] That repentance that accompanies salvation doth include, not 
only confession of sin, but also contrition for sin ; Ps. li. 4, 1 Sam. vii. 
2, Zech. xii. 10, 11, Ezra x. 1, 2, 2 Cor. vii. 11, &c.* It breaks the heart 
with sighs, sobs, and groans, for that a loving Father is offended, a 
blessed Saviour crucified, and the sweet Comforter grieved. Penitent 
Mary Magdalene weeps much, as well as loves much. Tears, instead of 
gems, were the ornaments of penitent David's bed ; and surely that 
sweet singer never sung more melodiously than when his heart was 
broken most penitentially. How shall God wipe away my tears in 
heaven, if I shed none on earth ? And how shall I reap in joy, if I sow 
not in tears ? I was born with tears, and shall die with tears ; why 
should I then live without them in this valley of tears ? saith the true 
penitent. The sweetest joys are from the sourest tears ; penitent tears 
are the breeders of spiritual joy. When Hannah had wept, she went 
away and was no more sad, 1 Sara. i. 18. The bee gathers the best 
honey off the bitterest herbs. Christ made the best wine of water ; the 
strongest, the purest, the truest, the most permanent, and the most ex- 
cellent joy is made of the waters of repentance. If God be God, ' they 
that sow in tears shall reap in joy,'* Ps. cxxvi. 5. 

But that no mourner may drown himself in his own tears, let me give 

* It was so with Paul, who thought himself in as good a way for heaven as any ; Acts 
ix. and xxvi. compared. 

* Acts xix. 18. Confessio peccati est vomitus sorditim animcB. — Augustine. 

* Non dico ut confitearis conservo tuo peccata tua, dicitoDeo, qui cureiea. — Chrysostom, in 
Ps. 1. 

* Jer. xiii. 17 ; Joel ii. 13. David cries, not Perii,hut Peccavi ; not, I am undone, but 
I have done foolishly. Basil wept when he saw the rose, because it brought to his mind 
the first sin, from whence it had the prickles, which it had not while man continued in 
innocence, as he thought. You know how to apply it. 

* Ti?ue repentance is a sorrowing for sin as it is offensivum Dei, aversivum d, Deo. Peter's 
was for sin, Judas his for punishment. Peter grieves because Christ was grieved, Judaa 
grieved because he should be damned, Ps. xlii. 5. 

VOL. II. G g 



466 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

this caution, viz. that there is nothing beyond remedy but the tears of the 
damned. A man who may persist in the way to paradise, should not 
place himself in the condition of a little hell ; and he that may or can hope 
for that great all, ought not to be dejected nor overwhelmed for anything. 

[4.] That repentance that accompanies salvation doth include not 
only contrition for sin, but also a holy shame and blushing for sin: 
Ezra ix. 6, Jer. iii. 24, 25, xxxi. 19; Ezek. xvi 61, 63, ' And thou shalt 
be confounded, and never open thy mouth any more, because of thy 
shame, when I am pacified towards thee for all that thou hast done, 
saith the Lord God.' When the penitent soul sees his sins pardoned, 
the anger of God pacified, and divine justice satisfied, then he sits down 
ashamed : so Rom. vl 21, ' What fruit had ye then in those things 
whereof ye are now ashamed V Sin and shame are inseparable com- 
panions. A man cannot have the seeming sweet of sin but he shall 
have the real shame that accompanies sin. These two God hath joined 
together, and all the world cannot put them asunder.' 

It was an impenitent Caligula that said of himself ' that he loved 
nothing better in himself than that he could not be ashamed.' 

Justinus's motto was, Quod pudet hoc pigeat, That should grieve 
most which is shameful in itself, and done against conscience. 

And doubtless those things are only shameful that are sinful. Asoulthat 
hath sinned away all shame is a soul ripe for hell, and given up to Satan. A 
greater plague cannot befall a man in this life than to sin and not to blush. 

[5.] That repentance that accompanies salvation, comprehends loath- 
ing and abhorring of sin, and of ourselves for sin, as well as shame 
a/iid blushi/ng for sin, Job xlii. 6 ; Ezek. xvi. 61, 62, 63 ; Amos v. 15 ; 
Ezek. XX. 41, 42, 43, ' And ye shall remember your ways, and all your 
doings, wherein ye have been defiled ; and ye shall loathe yourselves in 
your own sight, for all the evils that you have committed.' The sincere 
penitent loathes his sins, and he loathes himself also because of his sins. 
He cries out, Oh these wanton eyes ! oh these wicked hands ! oh this 
deceitful tongue ! oh this crooked will ! oh this corrupt heart ! oh how 
do I loathe my sins, how do I loathe myself, how do I loathe sinful self, 
and how do I loathe my natural self, because of sinful self ! My sins 
are a burden to me, and they make me a burden to myself ; my sins are 
an abhorring to me, and they make me abhor myself in dust and ashes. 
A true penitent hath not only low thoughts of himself, but loathsome 
thoughts of himself^ None can think or speak so vilely of him, as he 
doth and will think and speak of himself Ezek. vi. 9, ' And they that 
escape of you shall remember me among the nations whither they shall 
be carried captives, because I am broken with their whorish heart ' (as 
the heart of a husband is at the adulterous carriage of his wife), ' which 
hath departed from me, and with their eyes, which go a-whoring after 
their idols : an<l they shall loathe themselves for evils which they have 

' K'13, hash, to blush, to be abashed, to wax pale and wan, &c. Quantum displicet Deo 
immunditia peccati, in tantum placet Deo erubescentia pcenitentis. — Bernard. So much the 
more God hath been displeased with the blackness of sin, the more will he be well pleased 
with the blushing of the sinner. 

* Vis magnus esse ? incipe ab imo, wilt thou be great ? begin from below, saith one. It 
is very observable that those brave creatures, the eagle and tlie lion, were not offered in 
sacrifice unto God, but the poor lamb and dove ; to note that God regards not your brave, 
liigh, lofty spirits, but poor, meek, and contemptible spirits. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 467 

committed in all their abominations.' If thy repentance do not work 
thee out with thy sins, and thy sins work thee out of love with thyself, 
thy repentance is not that repentance that accompanies salvation.^ 
And thus you see the particular things that that repentance that doth 
accompany salvation doth comprehend and include. 

(6.) The sixth property. Sixthly, That repentance that accompanies 
salvation, hath these choice companions attending of it. 

[1.] Faith. Zech. xii. 10, II, ' They shall look upon him whom they 
have pierced, and mourn,' &c. Mourning and believing go together. 
So in Mat. iv. 17 ; Mark i. 14, 15, ' Now, after that John was put in 
prison, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel of the kingdom of 
God, and saying, The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at 
hand : repent ye, and believe the gospel.' 

[2.] Love to Christ doth always accompany that repentance that ac- 
companies salvation, as you may see in Mary Magdalene, Luke vii. 

[3.] A filial fear of offending Ood, and a holy care to honour God, 
doth always accompany that repentance that accompanies salvation : 
2 Cor. vii. 10, 'For godly sorrow worketh repentance to salvation not to 
be repented of : for, behold, this self-same thing, that ye sorrowed after a 
godly sort, what carefulness it wrought in you, yea, what clearing of your- 
selves, yea, what indignation, yea, what fear, yea, what vehement desire, 
yea, what zeal, yea, what revenge ! In all things ye have approved your- 
selves to be clear in this matter.' Verily, repentance to life hath all these 
lively companions attending of it ; they are bom together and will live 
together, till the penitent soul changes earth for heaven, grace for glory.* 

(7.) The seventh property. Seventhly and lastly. That repentance 
that accompanies salvation is a continued act, a repentance never to be 
repented of, 2 Cor. vii. 10. Repentance is a continual spring, where 
the waters of godly sorrow are always flowing. A sound penitent is still 
a-turning nearer and nearer to God ; he is still a- turning further and 
further from sin. This makes the penitent soul to sigh and mourn 
that he can get no nearer to God, that he can get no further from 
sin, Rom. vii. The work of repentance is not the work of an hour, 
a day, a year, but the work of this life. A sincere penitent makes 
as much conscience of repenting daily as he doth of believing daily ; 
and he can as easily content himself with one act of faith, or 
love, or joy, as he can content himself with one act of repentance : ' My 
sins are ever before me,' says David, Ps. li. 3. Next to my being kept 
from sin, I count it the greatest mercy in the world to be still a-mouming 
over sin, says the penitent souL The penitent soul never ceases repenting 
till he ceases living.^ He goes to heaven with the jojrful tears of repent- 
ance in his eyes. He knows that his whole life is but a day of sowing 
tears that he may at last reap everlasting joys. That repentance that 
accompanies salvation is a final forsaking of sin. It is a bidding sin an 
everlasting adieu ; it is a taking an eternal farewell of sin ; a never 

^ Some people can shed tears for nothing, some for anything; but a sound penitent 
sheds more tears for his sins than he doth for his sufferings. 

* Repentance is Post naufragium tabula, the fair daughter of a foul mother. Repentance 
is a fruitful womb. 

' Quid restat, peceator, nisi «t in tola vita tua deplores totam vitam tuam. — Anselmus. 
Oh, then, what then remains but in our whole life to lament the sins of our whole life ? 
[' Our Dens Homo-' — G.] 



468 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. YIII. 32-34. 

turning to folly more : * What have I to do any more with idols V says 
Ephraim, Hosea xiv. 8. I have tasted of the bitterness that is in sin ; 
I have tasted of the sweetness of divine mercy in pardoning of sin ; 
therefore, away, sin ; I will never have to do with you more ! You have 
robbed Christ of his service, and me of my comfort and crown. Away, 
away, sin ! you shall never be courted nor countenanced by me more. 
That man that only puts off his sins in the day of adversity, as he doth 
his garments at night when he goes to bed, with an intent to put them 
on again in the morning of prosperity, never yet truly repented : he is 
a dog that returneth to the vomit again ; he is a swine that returns to the 
wallowing in the mire. Such a dog was Judas ; such a swine was Demas. 

It is an extraordinary vanity in some men to lay aside their sins 
before solemn duties, but with a purpose to return to them again, as the 
serpent layeth aside his poison when he goeth to drink, and when he 
hath drunk, he returns to it again, as they fable it. It is sad when 
men say to their lusts, as Abraham said to his servants, ' Abide you here, 
and I will go and worship, and return again to you,' Gen. xxii. 5. 
Verily such souls are far off from that repentance that accompanies 
salvation, for that makes a final and everlasting separation between sin 
and the soul. It makes such a divorce between sin and the soul, and 
puts them so far asunder, that all the world can never bring them to 
meet as two lovers together. The penitent soul looks upon sin and deals 
with sin, not as a friend, but as an enemy. It deals with sin as Amnon 
dealt with Tamar : 2 Sam. xiii. 15, ' And Amnon hated her exceedingly, 
so that the hatred wherewith he hated her was greater than the love 
wherewith he had loved her. And Amnon said unto her. Arise, begone.' 
Just thus doth the penitent soul carry itself towards sin. 

And thus you see what repentance that is that accompanies salvation. 

The fourth thing I am to shew is, what obedience that is that doth 
accompany salvation. That obedience doth accompany salvation, I have 
formerly proved. Now what this obedience is that doth accompany or 
comprehend salvation, I shall shew you in these following particulars : 

[1.] The first property. First, That obedience that accompanies sal- 
vation is cordial and hearty. The heart, the inward man, doth answer 
and echo to the word and will of God. The believer knows that no 
obedience but hearty obedience is acceptable to Christ. He knows that 
nothing takes Christ's heart but what comes from the heart. Christ 
was hearty in his obedience for me, says the believer ; and shall not 
I be hearty in my obedience to him ? Christ will lay his hand of love, 
his hand of acceptance, upon no obedience but what flows from the 
heart : Rom. vi. 17, * Ye have obeyed from the heart that form of doc- 
triae which was delivered you.' So in Rom. vii. 25, 'So then with the 
mind, I myself serve the law of God.' My heart, says Paul, is in my 
obsdience. So in Rom. I 9, ' God is my witness, whom I serve with my 
spirit in the gospel of his Son.' Many serve God with their bodies, but 
1 serve him with my spirit ; many serve him with the outward man, 
but I serve him with my inward man,' Ezek. xxxvi. 26, 27. God hath 

' I.oa. xxix. 13; Mat. xv. 7-9. The heart is Camera omnipofeniis Rrgis, i.e. the 
prescnce-chamher of the King of heaven, and that upon which his eye, hia hand, his 
heart, is most set. 



I 



Rom. VIII. 32-34<.] heaven on earth. 469 

written his law in believers' hearts, and therefore they cannot but obey 
it from the heart : ' I delight to do thy will, O my God.' How so ? 
Why, ' thy law is within my heart,' or, in the midst of my bowels, as 
the Hebrew hath it, *yD 1103, Ps. xl. 8. The heart within echoes and 
answers to the commandments without, as a book written answers to his 
mind that writes" it ; as face answers to face ; as the impression on the 
wax answers to the character engraven on the seal. The scribes and 
Pharisees were much in the outward obedience of the law, but their 
hearts were not in their obedience ; and therefore all they did signified 
nothing in the account of Christ, who is only taken with outward actions 
as they flow from the heart and affections. Their souls were not in 
their services, and therefore all their services were lost services. They 
were very glorious in their outward profession, but their hearts were as 
filthy sepulchres. Their outsides shined as the sun, but their insides 
were as black as hell, Mat. xxiii. They were like the Egyptians' temples, 
beautiful without, but filthy within. Well ! remember this : No action, 
no service, goes for current in heaven, but that which is sealed up with 
integrity of heart. God will not be put off with the shell, when we give 
the devil the kernel. 

(2.) The second property. Secondly, That obedience that accom- 
panies salvation is universal as vjell as cordial. The soul falls in with 
every part and point of God's will, so far as he knows it, without pre- 
judice or partiality, without tilting the balance on one side or another. 
A soul sincerely obedient, will not pick and choose what commands to 
obey and what to reject, as hypocrites do ; he hath an eye to see, an 
ear to hear, and a heart to obey the first table as well as the second, 
and the second table as well as the first ; he doth not adhere to the first 
and neglect the second, as hypocrites do ; neither doth he adhere to the 
second and contemn the first, as profane men do ; he obeys not out of 
humour but out of duty, he obeys not out of choice but out of con- 
science : Ps. cxix. 6, * Then shall I not be ashamed, when I have respect 
unto aU thy commandments.' Look, as faith never singles out his 
object, but lays hold on every object God holds forth for it to close 
with, faith doth not choose this truth and reject that, it doth not close 
with one and reject another.^ Faith doth not say, I will trust God in 
this case but not in that, I will trust him for this mercy but not for 
that mercy, I will trust him in this way but not in that way. Faith 
doth not choose its object. Faith knows that he is powerful and faith- 
ful that hath promised, and therefore faith closes with one object as 
well as another. So a true obedient soul singles not out the commands 
of God, as to obey one and rebel against another ; it dares not, it can- 
not say, I will serve God in this command but not in that. No ; in an 
evangelical sense it obeys all : Luke i. 5, 6, ' Zacharias and Elizabeth 
were both righteous before God, walking in all the commandments and 
ordinances of the Lord blameless.'* They walked not only in com- 

^ Ifon elicit mandata, he doth not pick and choose. He obeys all, in respect of bis 
sincere purpose, desire, and endeavour ; and this God accepts in Christ for perfect and 
complete obedience, &c. 

^ '^ifi^Tot, without complaint An obedient soul is like a crystal glass with a light 
in the midst, which shines forth through every part thereof. So that royal law that is 
written upon his heart shines forth into every parcel of his life ; his outward works do 
echo to a law within. 



470 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

mandments, but also in ordinances ; not only in ordinances, but also in 
commandments. They were good souls, and good at both. A man 
sincerely obedient lays such a charge upon his whole man, as Mary, the 
mother of Christ, did upon all the servants at the feast : John ii. 5, 
' Whatever the Lord saith unto you do it.' Eyes, ears, hands, heart, 
lips, legs, body, and soul, do you all seriously and affectionately observe 
whatever Jesus Christ says unto you, and do it. So David doth : Ps. 
cxix. 34, 69, ' Give me understanding, and I shall keep thy law ; yea, I 
shall observe it with my whole heart.' ' The proud have forged a lie 
against me ; but I will keep thy precepts with my whole heart.' Thfi_ 
whole heart includes all the faculties of the soul and all the members of 
the body." Says Bavid^ I will put hand and heart, body and soul, all 
Within me and all without me, to the keeping and observing of thy 
precepts. Here is a soul thorough-paced in his obedience, he stands 
not halting nor halving of it, he knows the Lord loves to be served truly 
and totally, and therefore he obeys with an entire heart and a sincere 
spirit. 

I have read of a very strange speech that dropped out of the mouth 
of Epictetus, a heathen : ' If it be thy will,'' says he, ' O Lord, command 
me what thou wilt, send me whither thou wilt, I will not withdraw my- 
self from anything that seems good to thee.' * Ah ! how will this heathen 
at last rise in judgment against all Sauls, Jehus, Judases, Demases, 
scribes, pharisees, temporaries,^ who are partial in their obedience, who 
while they yield obedience to some commands, live in the habitual 
breach of other commands ! Yerily, he that lives in the habifual breach 
of one command, shall at last be reputed by God guilty of the breach 
of every command, James ii. 10, and God accordingly will in a way of 
justice proceed against him, Ezek. xviii. 10-13. It was the glory of 
Caleb and Joshua, that they followed the Lord fully in one thing, 
as well as another. Num. xiv. 24. So Cornelius : ' We are present 
before God, to hear whatsoever shall be commanded us of God,' Acts 
X. 33. He doth not pick and choose. So in Acts xiii. 22, ' I have found 
David the son of Jesse, a man after mine own heart, which shall fulfil 
all my will ;' or rather as it is in the Greek, ' he shall fulfil all my wills.*^ 
to note the universality and sincerity of his obedience. A sincere heart 
loves all commands of God, and prizes all commands of God, and sees a 
divine image stamped upon all the commands of God ; and therefore the 
main bent and disposition of his soul, is to obey all, to subject to all. 
God commands universal obedience, Joshua i. 8 ; Dent. v. 29 ; Ezek. 
xviii. The promise of reward is made over to universal obedience, Ps. 
xix. 11, Josh. i. 8. Universal obedience is a jewel that all will wish 
for or rejoice in, at the day of death and the day of account ; and the 
remembrance of these things, with others of the like nature, provokes all 
upright souls to be impartial, to be universal in their obedienca 

[3.] The third propeHy. Thirdly, That obedience that accompanies 
salvation springs from inward spiritual causes, and frcnn holy and 
heavenly motives. It flows from faith. Hence it is called ' the obedi- 

» Arrian. Ep. ad, L. Gall. i. p. 4 ; Diisert. i. 12, 27 ; ii. 17, 22, &c.— G. 
' ' Temporary meddler,' Measure for Measure, v. 1. — G. 

^ ^iXriitctrit, wills. He minds not only general duties of religion, but also particular 
duties ; as a magistrate, as a minister, as a father, as a master, as a son, as a servant. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34!.] heaven on earth. 471 

ence of faith,' Rom. xvi. 26. So in 1 Tim. L 5, * Now the end of the 
commandment is love, out of a pure heart, and of a good conscience, and 
of faith unfeigned.' Faith draws down that divine virtue and power 
into the soul that makes it lively and active, abundant and constant, in 
the work and way of the Lord. And as faith, so love, puts the soul for- 
ward in ways of obedience. John xiv. 21, 23, ' If any man love me, he 
will keep my commandments.' So Ps. cxix. 48, ' My hands also wiU I 
lift up to thy commandments, which I have loved.' Divine love is said 
to be the keeping the commandments, because it puts the soul upon 
keeping them. Divine love makes every weight light, every yoke easy, 
every command joyous. It knows no difficulties, it facilitates obedience, 
it divinely constrains the soul to obey, to walk, to run the ways of God's 
commands.* And as sound obedience springs from faith and love, so it 
flows from a filial fear of God : Ps. cxix. 161, * Mine heart stands in awe 
of thy word/ So Heb. xi. 7, ' Noah, being warned of God touching 
things not seen as yet, moved with fear, prepared an ark.' 

Ah ! but hypocrites and temporaries are not carried forth in their 
obedience from such precious and glorious principles, and therefore it is 
that God casts all their services as dung in their faces, Isa. i. 11. And 
as that obedience which accompanies salvation flows from inward 
spiritual principles, so it flows from holy and heavenly motives, as from 
the tastes of divine love, and the sweetness and excellency of communion 
with God, and the choice and precious discoveries that the soul in ways 
of obedience hath had of the beauty and glory of God, Isa. Ixiv. 5. The 
sweet looks, the heavenly words, the glorious kisses, the holy embraces 
that the obedient soul hath had, makes it freely and fully obedient, to 
the word and will of God. Ah ! but all the motives that move hypo- 
crites and carnal professors to obedience are only external and carnal, 
as the eye of the creature, the ear of the creature, the applause of the 
creature, the rewards of the creature ; either the love of the loaves, or 
the gain of custom, or the desire of ambition, Hosea vii. 14. Some- 
times they are moved to obedience from the fear of the creature, and 
sometimes from the want of the creature, and sometimes from the ex- 
ample of the creature, and sometimes from vows made to the creature. 
Sometimes the frowns of God, the displeasure of God, the rod of God, 
moves them to obedience, Hosea v. 15, Ps. Ixxviii. 34. Sometimes the 
quieting and stilling of conscience, the stopping of the mouth of con- 
science, and the disarming of conscience of all her whipping, racking, 
wounding, condemning, terrifying, and torturing power, puts them upon 
some ways of obedience. Their obedience always flows from some low, 
base, carnal, corrupt consideration or other. Oh ! but that obedience 
that accompanies salvation doth always flow, as you see, from inward 
and spiritual causes, and from holy and heavenly motives, 

[4.] The foutih property. Fourthly, That obedience that accom- 
panies salvation is a ready, free, willing, and cheerful obedience. 

(1.) It is ready obedience. Ps. xxvii. 8, ' When thou saidst, Seek 
ye my face, my heart said unto thee. Thy face, Lord, will I seek ;' Ps. 
cxix. 60, * I made haste, and delayed not to keep thy commandments ;' 

• Where love is, the soul says of every command, Bonus sermo, it is a good saying ; but 
•where love is wanting, the man cries out, Durus sermo, * it is a hard saying ; who can 
bear it?' 



472 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 82-34. 

Ps, xviii. 44, * As soon as they hear of me, they shall obey rae ; the 
strangers shall submit themselves unto me.' 

I have read of one who readily fetched water near two miles every 
day for a whole year together to pour upon a dry stick, upon the bare 
command of a superior, when no reason could be given for the thing.^ 
Oh how ready, then, doth grace make the soul to obey those divine com- 
mands that are backed with the highest, strongest, and choicest argu- 
ments. 

(2.) As that obedience that accompanies salvation is ready obedience, 
so it is free and willing obedience} Acts xxi. 13, 'Then Paul answered. 
What mean ye to weep, and to break mine heart ? for I am willing not 
to be bound only, but also to die at Jerusalem for the name of the Lord 
Jesus.' The beamings out of divine love and glory make gracious souls 
* willing in the day of his power,' Ps. ex. 3. Those divine principles that 
be in them make them willingly obey, without co-action or compulsion. 
So 2 Cor. viii. 3. The Macedonians were willingly obedient, or, as the 
Greek hath it, avQahsToi, they were volunteers not only to their power, 
but beyond their power. All the motions and actings of Christ towards 
his people, for his people, and in his people, are free ; he loves them 
freely, he pardons them freely, he intercedes for them freely, he acts 
them freely, and he saves them freely, and so they move and act to- 
wards Christ freely ; they hear, they pray, they wait, they weep, they 
work, they watch freely and willingly. That Spirit of grace and holiness 
that is in them makes them volunteers in all religious duties and services.* 

It is reported of Socrates, that when the tyrant threatened death unto 
him, he answered, ' He was willing ;' nay then, says the tyrant, you 
shall live against your will. He answered again, Nay, whatsoever you 
do with me, it shall be my will. Yet if nature, a little raised and re- 
fined, will enable a man to do this, will not grace, will not union and com- 
munion with Christ, enable a man to do as much, yea, infinitely more 1* 

(3.) As that obedience that accompanies salvation is free and willing 
obedience, so it is cheerful and delightful obedience. It is a believer's 
meat and drink, it is his joy and crown, it is a pleasure, a paradise to 
his soul, to be still obeying his Father's will, to be still found about his 
Father's business : Ps. xl. 8, ' I delight to do thy will, O my God ; yea, 
thy law is in my heart.' As the sun rejoiceth to run his race, so do the 
saints rejoice to nm the race of obedience. God's work is wages, yea, 
it is better than wages ; therefore they cannot but delight in it. Not 
only for keeping, but also in keeping of his commands, there is great 
reward : Ps. cxii. 1 , ' Blessed is the man that feareth the Lord, that 
delighteth greatly in his commandments :' that is, in the studying and 
obeying of his commandments. Ps. cxix. 16, 'I will delight myself in 
thy statutes ; I will not forget thy word.' Ver. 35, ' Make me to go in 
the path of thy commandments, for therein do I delight.' Ver. 47, 
' And I will delight myself in thy commandments, which I have loved.' 
Ver. 143, ' Trouble and anguish have taken hold on me, yet thy com- 

' Csissianus, lib. iv. c. 24. 

* Voluntas semiplena est voluntas, an half will, an incomplete will, an unwilling will, is 
a will in divine account. ^ 1 Chron. xxix. 6-18 ; 1 Tim. vi. 18 ; I Thes. ii. 8. 

* A saint at worst is obedient, either voluntate plena or semiplena, with a [willing] will 
or an unwilling will ; like the merchant that is unwillingly willing to throw his goods 
overboard into the tempestuous sea to save his life. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34'.] heaven on earth. 473 

mandments are my delight.* Divine commands are not grievous to a 
lover of Christ ; for nihil dijfficile amanti, nothing is difficult to him 
that loveth. The love of Christ, the discoveries of Christ, the embraces 
of Christ, make a gracious soul studious and industrious to keep the 
commandments of Christ, in lip and life, in word and work, in head and 
heart, in book and breast.^ 

Thus you see that that obedience that accompanies salvation is ready, 
free, and cheerful obedience. 

[5.] The fifth property. Fifthly, The obedience that accompanies 
salvation, is pereTYiptory obedience.^ Josh. xxiv. 15, ' I and my house- 
hold will serve the Lord.' He is fully resolved upon it, come what 
come can ; in the face of all dangers, difficulties, impediments and dis- 
couragements, he will obey the Lord, he will follow the Lord. So those 
worthies, Heb. xi. ' of whom the Avorld was not worthy,' obeyed divine 
commands peremptorily, resolvedly, in the face of all manner of deaths 
and miseries. So Paul was ' obedient to the heavenly vision,' though 
bonds did attend him in every place. Acts xx. 23. He is better at 
obeying than at disputing ; ' I conferred not, says he, with flesh and 
blood,' Gal. i. 15, J 6. So Peter and John, and the rest of the apostles, in 
despite of all threatenings and beatings, they obey the Lord, they 
keep fast and close to their Master's work.^ ' Whether it be right in 
the sight of God to hearken more unto you than unto God, judge ye. 
For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard. 
And now, Lord, behold their threatenings : and grant unto thy servants, 
that with all boldness they may speak thy word. And when they had 
called the apostles, and beaten them, they commanded that they should 
not speak in the name of Jesus, and let them go. And they departed 
from the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted 
worthy to suffer shame for his name. And daily in the temple, and in 
every house, they ceased not to teach and preach Jesus Christ.' Acts. iv. 
19, 20, 29, and v. 40-42, compared. 

Thus you see, no trials, no troubles, no terrors, no threats, no dangers, 
no deaths, could deter them from peremptory obedience to divine pre- 
cepts. It is not the fiery furnace, nor the lions' den, nor the bloody 
sword, nor the torturing rack, that can fright gracious souls from their 
obedience to their dearest Lord : Ps. cxix. 106, 'I have sworn, and I 
will perform it, that I will keep thy righteous judgments.' 

[6.] The sixth property. Sixthly, The end of that obedience that accom- 
panies salvation is,divine glory.* The eye of the obedient soul, in prayer 
and praises, in talking and walking, in giving and receiving, in living 
and doing, is divine glory : Rom. xiv. 7, 8, ' For none of us liveth to 

^ Ps. xix. 5, 11, compared. Tanto magis delectat opus bonum, quanta magia diligitur Deus 
Btmmum et incommutabile bonum — Aiigustine. A good work so much the more delighteth, 
by m^ much the more God, the chiefest and unchangeable good, is loved. In hoc cog- 
nosciiA)nr amor Christi, si quis servat proecepta Christi. — Bernard. 

2 JosVphus reports of such resolute Christians, that in the face of all reproachea and 
difficultidk:^.followed Christ to the cross. 

3 You may as well stop the sun from running his race, as you are able to hinder 
gracious souls from obeying divine commands, Ps. xliv. 13, 14. As a wicked nature 
make^ the wicked peremptory in their disobedience (Jer. xliv. 15-17), so the divine 
nature makes gracious souls peremptory in their obedience. 

* Propter te Domine, propter te, is every godly man's motto. Quicquid agas, propter 
Dewm agas, was an Eastern apophthegm. — [John] Drusius. 



474 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

himself, and no man dieth to himself. For whether we live, we live 
unto the Lord ; and whether we die, we die unto the Lord : whether 
we live therefore, or die, we are the Lord's.' In all actions, the obedient 
soul intends and attends most divine glory. If Satan, the world, or the 
old man do at any time propound other ends to the soul, this great end, 
divine glory, works out all those ends ; for this is most certain, that 
which a man makes his greatest and his highest end, will work out all 
other ends.' Look, as the light of the sun doth extinguish and put out 
the light of the fire, so when a man makes the glory of God his end, 
that end will extinguish and put out all carnal, low, base ends ; that man 
that makes himself the end of his actions, that makes honour, riches, 
applause, &c. the end of his actions, he must at last lie down in eternal 
sorrow, he must dwell in everlasting burnings. The man is as his end 
is, and his work is as his end is ; if that be naught, all is naught ; if 
that be good, all is good, and the man is happy for ever, Isa. xxx. 33, 
and xxxiii. 14. 

[7.] The seventh property. Seventhly, that obedience that accom- 
panies salvation, that borders upon salvation, that comprehends salvation, 
is a constant obedience.^ Ps. cxix. 112, 'I have inclined my heart to 
do thy statutes alway, even to the end.' The causes, springs, and motives 
of holy obedience are lasting and permanent, and therefore the obedi- 
ence of a sound Christian is not like the morning dew, or a deceitful 
bow : Ps. xliv. 17-19, ' All this comes upon us ; yet have we not for- 
gotten thee, neither have we dealt falsely in thy covenant. Our heart 
is not turned back, neither have our steps declined from thy ways ; 
though thou hast sore broken us in the place of dragons, and covered 
us with the shadow of death.' The love of Christ, the promises of Christ, 
the presence of Christ, the discoveries of Christ, the example of Christ, 
and the recompence of reward held forth by Christ, makes a sound 
Christian hold on, and hold out, in ways of obedience, in the face of all - 
dangers and deaths. Neither the hope of life, nor the fear of death, can 
make a sincere Christian either change his master or decline his work :* 
Philip, ii. 1 2, ' Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not as 
in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your 
own salvation with fear and trembling.' This was the Philippians' 
glory, that they were constant in their obedience ; whether Paul was 
present or absent, they constantly minded their work. 

Ah ! but hypocrites and temporaries are but passionate, transient, and 
inconstant in their obedience ;* they talk of obedience, they commend 
obedience, and now and then in a fit they step in the way of obedience, 
but they do not walk in a way of obedience, they are only constant in 
inconstancy : Job xxvii. 10, ' Will the hypocrite delight himself in the 
Almighty ? Will he always call upon God V Or, as the Hebrew hath it, 
nybaa, will he in every time call upon God 1 Will he call upon God in 

' Finis movet ad agendum, the end moves to doing. 

* Si dixisti, Svfficit, periisti, if once thou sayest it is enough, thou art undone — Augustine. 

3 History reports, that it hath been the ancient custom of pious Christians under per- 
secuting emperors, to meet, and by the sacrament to bind themselves for ever to fly 
what was evil, and follow what was good, whatever it cost them. 

♦ Such hypocrites may well cry out as Ecebolius did, who was only constant in incon- 
stancy, Tarnffan [ii ro aianrthroy, tread upon me that am unsavoury salt. [Suidas, sub 
voce ; Socrates, H. £., iii. 13. — G.] 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on eaeth. 475 

time of prosperity and in time of adversity ? in time of health and in 
time of sickness ? in time of strength and in time of weakness ? in time 
of honour and in time of disgrace ? in time of liberty and in time of 
durance ? &c. The answer to be given in is, he will not always, he will 
• not in every time call upon God. As a lame horse, when he is heated, 
will go well enough, but when he cools, he halts downright ; even so an 
hypocrite, though for a time he may go on fairly in a religious way, 
yet when he hath attained his ends, he will halt downright, and be able 
to go no further. 

The abbot in Melancthon lived strictly, and walked demurely, and 
looked humbly, so long as he was but a monk ; but when, by his seem- 
ing extraordinary sanctity, he got to be made abbot, he grew intolerably 
proud and insolent, and being asked the reason of it, confessed that his 
former carriage and lowly looks was but to see if he could find the keys 
of the abbey.^ Ah ! many unsound hearts there be, that will put on 
the cloak of religion, and speak like angels, and look like saints, to find 
the keys of preferment, and when they have found them, none prove 
more proud, base, and vain than they. Ah ! but that obedience that 
accompanies salvation is constant and durable. A Christian in his course 
goes straight on heavenwards. * The two milch-kine,' 1 Sam. vi. 12, ' took 
the straight way to the way of Beth-shemesh, and went along the high- 
way, lowing as they went, and turned not aside to the right hand or to 
the left.'^ So gracious souls goes straight^ along the highway to heaven, 
which is the way of obedience ; though they go lowing and weeping, 
yet they still go on, and turn not aside to the right hand nor to the left. 
If by the violence of temptation or corruption they are thrust out of 
the way at any time, they quickly return into it again. They may 
sometimes step out of the way of obedience, but they cannot walk out 
of the way of obedience. The honest traveller may step out of his way, 
but he soon returns into it again, and so doth the honest soul, 
Ps. cxix. 3, 4. 

(8.) The eighth prope7iy. Eighthly, and lastly. Passive obedience 
acccmipanies salvation as well as active. ' Every one that will live 
godly in Christ Jesus must suffer persecution,' 2 Tim. iii. 12, ii. 12, 
from tongue or pen, from hand or heart. ' If we suffer with him, we 
shall reign with him,' Rom. viii. 17, 18. There is no passing into para- 
dise but under the flaming sword. * Through many afflictions we must 
enter into the kingdom of heaven,' Acts xiv. 22. A sincere heart is [as] 
willing to obey Christ passively as actively : Acts xxi. 13, ' I am ready, 
not to be bound only, but also to die at Jerusalem, for the name of the 
Lord Jesus.' I am willing, says Paul, to lose my comforts for Christ, I 
am ready to endure any dolors for Christ, I am willing to lose the crea- 
ture, and to leave the creature for Christ.* Paul, Philip, iii. 8, speaks of 
himself as having been like one in a sea-tempest, that had cast out all 

' The monk in the fable, being a poor fisherman's son, still spread a net over his table, 
as a remembrance of his mean original, till he had by these shows of humility attained 
to the highest preferments, which when he had attained, he laid away the net, because 
the fish was caught. 

2 A Christian's emblem should be an house moving towards heaven, saith Clement. 
[See Vol. I., page 80.— G.] 

^ Sic ; and this is a frequent construction with Brooks and his most scholarly con- 
temporaries. — G. 

* i might produce a cloud of witnesses that have been excellent at suffering, at burning. 



476 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

liis precious wares and goods for Christ's sake ; ' for whom,' says lie, ' I 
have suffered the loss of all.' So must we, in stormy times, cast all 
overboard for Christ, and swim to an immortal crown, through sorrows, 
blood, and death. But because I have in this treatise spoke at large of 
the sufferings of the saints, I shall say no more of it in this place ; and 
thus you see what that obedience is that accompanies salvation. 

The fifth thing that I am to shew you is, what love that is that ac- 
companies salvation. 

That love doth accompany salvation I have formerly shewed you ; but 
now I shall shew you what that love is that doth accompany salvation ; 
and that I shall do in these following particulars. I shall not speak of 
the firstness, freeness, fulness, sweetness, and greatness of Christ's love 
to us, but of that love of ours that accompanies salvation, concerning 
which I shall say thus : 

(].) The first property. First, That love that accompanies salvation 
is a superlative love, a transcendent love. True love to Christ doth 
wonderfully transcend and surpass the love of all relations ; the love of 
father, mother, wife, child, brother, sister, yea, life itself. Mat. x; 37, 38, 
Luke xiv. 26, 27, 34. Ps. Ixxiii. 25, ' Whom have I in heaven but thee ? 
And there is none upon earth that I desire besides thee.' Christ will 
be Alexander or Nemo, he will be all or nothing at all. There are the 
greatest causes of love, there are the highest causes of love, there are all 
the causes of love, to be found in Christ. In angels and men there are 
only some particular causes of love ; all causes of love are eminently and 
only to be found in Christ:* Col. i. 19, 'It pleased the Father that m 
him should all fulness dwell,' "TrXrioufia,. There is not only plenitudo 
abundanticB, but plenitudo redundantice, an overflowing of fulness in 
Jesus Christ. All wisdom, all knowledge, all light, all life, all love, all 
goodness, all sweetness, all blessedness, all joys, all delights, all pleasures, 
all beauties, all beatitudes, all excellencies, all glories are in Christ, Col, 
ii. 9. The true lovers of Christ know that Christ loves as a head, as a 
king, as a father, as a husband, as a brother, as a kinsman, as a friend. 
The love of all relations meets in the love of Christ ; and this raises up 
a believer to love Christ with a transcendent love. They know that 
Christ loves them more than they love themselves ; yea, that he loves 
them above his very life, John x. 1, 17, 18. And magnes amoris amor, 
love is the loadstone of love.* Christ is amiable and lovely; he is 
famous and conspicuous; he is spotless and matchless in his names, in 
his natures, in his offices, in his graces, in his gifts, in his discoveries, in 
his appearances, in his ordinances. He is full of gravity, majesty, mercy, 
and glory. * He is white and ruddy, the chiefest among ten thousand.' 
His mouth is D»pno», sweetness; yea, DnoPiD 1^31, all of him is desires, 
or all of him is delights. Cant. v. 10-16. Christ is wholly delectable; 
he is altogether desirable from top to toe ; he is amiable and lovely, he 
is glorious and excellent.^ Christ is lovely, Christ is very lovely, Chiist 
is most lovely, Christ is always lovely, Christ is altogether lovely. He 

' Friends maj* have the milk of a believer's love, but Christ hath the cream. 

* We so far love as we know, Tantum diligimus, quantum cognoscimus. Certe non amat tile 
Christum, qui aliquid jAusquam Christum amat. — Augustine. Certainly they do not love 
Christ, who love anything more than Christ. 

"» lie that holds not wholly with Christ, doth very shamefully neglect Christ. Aut 
toium mecum tene, aut totum omitte. — Greg. Nazianzen. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34).] heaven on earth. 477 

is 'the express image of God ;' he is ' the brightness of his Father's 
glory.' If the soal cau but anatomise him, it shall find in him all highi 
perfections and supereminent excellencies. And upon these and such 
like considerations the saints are led forth to love Jesus Christ with a 
most transcendent love. 

(2. j The second property. Secondly, That love that accompanies sal- 
vation is obediential love, it is operative and working love} The love 
of Christ makes a man subject to the commands of Christ : ' If any man 
love me, he will keep my commandments ;' and again, ' He that hath 
my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me,' John 
xiv. 21. Divine love is very operative : Ps. cxvi. 1, ' I love the Lord,' 
says David. Well, but how doth this love work ? Why, says he, 'I will 
walk in his ways, I will pay my vows, I will take the cup of salvation, 
I will offer the sacrifice of thanksgiving, and I will call upon the name 
of the Lord as long as I live,' vers. 2, 9, 13, 14, 17. Divine love is not 
stinted nor limited to one sort of duty, but is free to all. He that loveth 
flieth, he that loveth runneth, he that loveth belie veth, he that loveth 
rejoiceth, he that loveth mourneth, he that loveth giveth, he that 
loveth lendeth, he that loveth beareth, he that loveth waiteth, he that 
loveth hopeth, &c. Heb. vi. 10, ' For God is not unrighteous, to forget 
your work and labour of love.' Love makes the soul laborious. That love 
that accompanies salvation is very active and operative. It is like the 
virtuous woman in the Proverbs, that set all her maidens on work. It 
is never quiet, but in doing the will of God. It will not suflfer any grace 
to sit idle in the soul. It will egg and put on all other graces to act 
and operate. Love sets faith upon drawing from Christ, and patience 
upon waiting on Christ, and humility upon submitting to Christ, and 
godly sorrow upon mourning over Christ, and self-denial upon forsaking 
of the nearest and dearest comforts for Christ, &c. As the sun makes 
the earth fertile, so doth divine love make the soul fruitful in works of 
righteousness and holiness. He that loves cannot be idle nor barren. 
Love makes the soul constant and abundant in well-doing : 2 Cor. v. 14, 
' The love of Christ constraineth us.'^ It doth urge us and put us for- 
ward ; it carries us on as men possessed with a vehemency of spirit, or 
as a ship which is driven with strong winds towards the desired haven. 
Natural love makes the child, the servant, the wife, obedient ; so doth 
divine love make the soul better at obeying than at disputing. A soul 
that loves Christ will never cease to obey till he ceases to be. That 
love that accompanies salvation is like the sun. The sun, you know, 
casteth his beams upward and downward, to the east and to the west, 
to the north and to the south ; so the love of a saint ascends to God 
above, and descends to men on earth ; to our friends on the right hand, 
to our enemies on the left hand ; to them that are in a state of grace, 
and to them that are in a state of nature. Divine love will still be a- 
working one way or another.' 

' I have read a story of an elephant, who being fallen down, and unable to help him- 
self, or get up again, by reason of the inflexibleness of his legs, a forester coming by, 
helped him up ; wherewith the elephant, by the very instinct of nature, was so affected, 
that he followed this man, and would do anything for him, and never left him till his 
dyirig day. Ah, sirs, will not divine love make a man do more ? 

* fu^xH' Love's property is to do eternally. It is an eternal, lasting principle, and 
actions will last as long as principles ; its action is as abiding as itself. 

^ Bealus qui amcU le, et amicos in ie, et inimicos propUr ie. — Augustine : Confess. 



478 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

(3.) Tlie third property. That love that accompanies salvation is a 
sincere and incorrujyt love : Eph. vi. 24, ' Grace be with all them that 
love our Lord Jesus Christ in sincerity. Amen.'' The true bred 
Christian amat Christum propter Christum, loves Christ for Christ ; 
he loves Christ for that internal and eternal worth that is in him ; he 
loves him for his incomparable excellency and beauty, for that trans- 
cendent sweetness, loveliness, holiness, and goodness that is in him ; 
he is none of those that loves Christ for loaves, neither will he with 
Judas kiss Christ and betray him ; nor yet will he with those in the 
Gospel ciy out, 'Hosanna, Hosanna,' one day, and 'Crucify him, crucify 
him,' the next. Mat. xxi. 9, 15. They love Christ with a virgin love : 
Cant. i. 3, 'The virgins love thee.' They love thee in much sincerity, 
purity, and integrity ; they love thee for that fragrant savour, for that 
natural sweetness, iPor that incomparable goodness that is in thee. So 
ver. 4, ' The upright love thee,' or as it is in the Hebrew, ' Upright- 
nesses love thee,' Dnt5'"'0 Uprightnesses being put for upright ones, 
the abstract for the concrete ; or, ' They love thee in uprightnesses,' that 
is, most uprightly, most entirely, most sincerely, and not as hypocrites, 
who love thee for base, carnal respects ; who love thee in compliment, 
but not in realities ; who love thee in word and tongue, but despise 
thee in heart and life ; who love the gift more than the giver. That 
love that accompanies salvation is real and cordial love, it is sincere 
and upright love, it makes the soul love Christ, the giver, more than 
the gift ; it makes the soul love the gift for the giver's sake ; it will 
make the soul to love the giver without his gifts. And verily, they 
shall not be long without good gifts from Christ, that love Christ more 
than his gifts.* 

Vespasian commanded a liberal reward should be given to a 
ivoman that came and professed that she was in love with him ; and 
when his steward asked him what item he should put to it in his book 
of accounts, the emperor answered, Vespasiano adamato, item to her 
that loved Vespasian.' Ah, Christians, shall Vespasian, an heathen 
prince, reward her liberally that loved his person ? and will not the 
Lord Jesus much more reward them with his choicest gifts, that love 
him more than his gifts ? Surely Christ will not be worse than a 
heathen, he will not act below a heathen ! He shall never be a loser 
that loves Christ for that spiritual sweetness and loveliness that is in 
Christ ; Christ will not live long in that man's debts. 

(4.) The fourth property. Fourthly, That love that accompanies 
salvation is a vehernerd love, an ardent love. It is a spark of heavenly 
fire, and it puts all the affections into a holy flame : Cant. i. 7, ' Tell 
me, O thou whom my soul loveth, where thou feedest?' &c. This 
amiable, amorous, pathetical compellation, 'O thou whom my soul 

^ l» iipSa^fia, word fof word, in incorruption, or with incorruption ; t. e. that love Christ 
in sincerity, and not feignedly and hypocritically. 

2 Judas was kin to the bag, he was not kin to Christ ; and he in Clement was not his, 
but his riches', kinsman. Christ hath many such kinsmen. A Christian cares not for 
anything that hath not aliquid Christi, something of Christ in it. He says with him, 
Sine Deo omnia copia est egestas, without Christ, all plenty is scarcity. Austin prays : 
Lord, saith he, whatever thou hast given, take all away ; only, only give me thyself. 
God gave him himself, and cast in many other mercies, as paper and packthread, into 
the bargain. — [Confessions. — 6] 

' Suetonius : Vespasian, — G. 



^ 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 479 

loveth/ speaks the spouse's love to be hot and burning towards Christ,' 
So in Isa. xxvi 8, 9, ' The desire of our souls is towards thee, and to 
the remembrance of thy name. With my soul have I desired thee in 
the night, yea, with my spirit within me, will I seek thee early.''' This 
affectionate, this passionate form of speech, 'Witb my soul have I 
desired thee,' and that, ' with my spirit within me will I seek thee,' 
does elegantly set forth the vehement and ardent love of the church to 
Christ ; so doth that pathetical exclamation of the church, * Stay me 
with flagons, comfort me with apples, for I am sick of love,' Cant. ii. 5. 
The betrothed virgin cannot shew more strong and vehement love to 
her beloved, than by being sick and surprised with love-qualms, when 
she meets him, when she enjoys him. It was so here with the spouse 
of Christ. The love of Christ to believers, is a vehement love, an 
ardent love — witness his leaving his Father's bosom, his putting upon 
us his royal robes, his bleeding, his dying, &c. And it doth naturally 
beget vehement and ardent love in all the beloved of God. Where 
Christ loves, he always begets somewhat like himself. Amor semper 
habet, quid sui eimile.^ That love that is flat, lukewarm, or cold, will 
leave a man to freeze a-this side heaven, it will fit him for the warmest 
place in helL DiA'es's love was very cold, and he found the flames of 
hell to be very hot. That love that accompanies salvation is full of 
heat and fire. 

(5.) The fifth property. Fifthly, That love that accompanies salva- 
tion is lasting love, it is permanent love. The objects of it are lasting, 
the springs and causes of it are lasting, the nature of it is lasting. 
The primitive Christians loved not their lives unto the death. Rev. xii. 
11. Persecutoi-s have taken away the martyrs' lives for Christ, but 
could never destroy their love to Christ : Eph. vi. 24, ' Grace be with 
all that love the Lord Jesus in sincerity,' or, ' in in corruption,' as the 
Greek word signifies ; whereby the apostle gives us to understand, that 
true love to Christ is not liable to corruption, putrefaction, or decay, 
but is constant and permanent, lasting, yea, everlasting.* 

That love that accompanies salvation is like to the oil in the cruse 
, and the meal in the barrel, that wasted not ; it is like the apple-tree 
of Persia, that buddeth, blossometh, and beareth fruit every month ; it is 
like the lamp in the story, that never went out ; it is like the stone in 
Thracia, that neither bumeth in the fire, nor sinketh in the water :* 
Cant. viii. 6, 7, 'Love is stronger than death, many waters cannot 
quench it, nor the floods cannot drown it. If a man would give all 
the substance of his house for love, it would be contemned.'^ Love 
will outlive all enemies, temptations, oppositions, afflictions, persecu- 
tions, dangers, and deaths. Love's motto is .tlulli cedo, 1 jdeld to none. 
Love is like the sun; the sun beginning to ascend in his circle, never 
goes back till he comes to the highest degree thereo£ 

* Anitna est ubi amat, non ubi animat, the soul ia where it loves, not where it lives. 

* ^SIpS, in the midst of me. It is an emphatical phrase. 
3 Amor non nisi donum amantis. — Gul. Par. 

* 1 Cor. xiii. 8. Love never faileth, or as it is in the Greek, oviWan tK^itTu, never 
falleth away, but shall last for over in heaven ; in which respect the apostle lifts it up 
above faith, hope, and all the common gifts of the Spirit, in the same chapter. 

6 Asbestos. — G. 

6 ^TIZl'' T13, contemning, it would be contemned. Omnia vincit amor, love rides in her 
chariot of triumph over all calamities and miseries, and cries, Victory, victory ! 



480 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIIL 32-34. 

True love abhors apostasy, it ascends to more perfection, and ceases 
not until, like Elijah's fiery chariot, it hath carried the soul to heaven. 

Many men's love to Christ is like the morning dew; it is like Jonah's 
gourd, that came up in a night and vanished in a night. But that love 
that accompanies salvation is like Ruth's love, a lasting and an abiding 
love, Ruth i. It is love that will bed and board with the soul, that will 
lie down and rise up with the soul, that will to the fire, to the prison, to 
the grave, to heaven with the soul. 

(6.) The sixth property. Sixthly, that love that accompanies salva- 
tion, is an abounding love, an increasing love. Love in a saint, is 
like the waters in Noah's time, that rose higher and higher. The very 
nature of true love is to abound and rise higher and higher. Philip, i. 
9, ' This I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more.'^ 

The longer a believer lives, the more eminent and excellent causes of 
love he sees in Christ. Christ discovers himself gradually to the soul. 
Now a believer's love to Christ rises answerable to the causes of love 
that he sees in Christ. The more light the more love. Knowledge and 
love, like the water and the ice, beget each other. 

Man loves Christ by knowing, and knows Christ by loving. Man's 
love is answerable to his light. He cannot love much that knows but 
little ; he cannot love little that knows much.* As a man rises higher 
and higher in his apprehensions of Christ, so he cannot but rise higher 
and higher in his affections to Christ. Again, the daily mercies and 
experiences that they have of the love of Christ, of the care of Christ, 
of the bowels and compassions of Christ, working more and more towards 
them, cannot but raise their affections more and more to him. As fire 
is increased by adding of fuel unto it, so is our love to Christ, upon 
fresh and new manifestations of his great love toward us. As the husband 
abounds in his love to his wife, so the wife rises in her love to her hus- 
band. The more love the father manifests to the child, the more the 
ingenuous child rises in his affections to him. So the more love the 
Lord Jesus shews to us, the more he is beloved by us. Christ shewed 
much love to Mary Magdalene, and this raises in her much love to 
Christ. ' She loved much, for much was forgiven her,' Luke vii. 47, 48. 
As the Israelites, Num. xxxiii. 29, removed their tents from Mithcah to 
Hashmonah, from siveetaess to swiftiness, as the words import, so the 
sweetness of divine love manifested to the soul makes the soul more 
sweet, swift, and high in the exercise and actings of love towards Christ. 
A soul under special manifestations of love, weeps that it can love Christ 
no more. Mr Welch, a Suffolk minister, weeping at table, and be- 
ing asked the reason of it, answered, it was because he could love 
Christ no more. The true lovers of Christ can never rise high enough 
in their love to Christ ; they count a little love to be no love ; great 
love to be but little ; strong love to be but weak ; and the highest love 
to be infinitely below the worth of Christ, the beauty and glory of 
Christ, the fulness, sweetness, and goodness of Christ. The top of 
their misery in this life is, that they love so little, though they are so 
much beloved. 
• (7.) The seventh property. Seventhly and lastly, that love that 

' This is clear throughout the whole book of Cauticles, as all may run and read. 
* Amat Deua ? non aliunde hoc habet ; sed ijpse est unde amal. — Augustine. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on eaeth. 481 

accompanies salvation, is open love, it is manifest love, it is love that 
cannot be hid, that cannot be covered and buried. It is like the sun, 
it will shine forth, and shew itself to all the world. A man cannot 
love Christ, but he will shew it in these, and such like things as follow : 

First, Divine love makes the soul even ready to break, in longing 
after a further, clearer, and fuller enjoyment of Christ. The voice of 
divine love is, ' Come, Lord Jesus, come quickly,' Rev. xxii. 20. * Make 
haste, my beloved, and be thou like to a roe, or to a young hart upon the 
mountain of spices,' Cant. viii. 14.' ' I desire to be dissolved, and to be 
with Christ, which for me is best of all,' Philip, i. 23. It is a mercy, says 
Paul, for Christ to be with me, but it is a greater mercy for me to be 
with Christ. I desire to die, that I may see my Saviour ; I refuse to live, 
that I may live with my Redeemer. 

Love desires and endeavours for ever to be present, to converse with, 
to enjoy, to be closely and eternally united to its object, Christ. The 
longing of the espoused maid for the marriage day, of the traveller for 
his inn, of the mariner for his haven, of the captive for his ransom, &c., 
is not to be compared to the longings of the lovers of Christ, after a 
further and fuller enjoyment of Christ.'* 

The lovers of Christ do well know, that till they are taken up into 
glory, their chains will not fall oif ; till then their glorious robes shall 
not be put on ; till then all sorrow and tears shall not be wiped from 
their eyes ; till then their joy will not be full, their comforts pure, their 
peace lasting, their graces perfect ; and this makes them look and long 
after the enjoyment of the person of Christ.^ 

It was a notable saying of one, * Let all the devils in hell,' saith he, 
* beset me round ; let fasting macerate my body ; let sorrows oppress my 
mind ; let pains consume my flesh ; let watchings dry me, or heat scorch 
me, or cold freeze me, let all these, and what can come more, happen 
unto me, so I may enjoy my Saviour.' 

Secondly, Love to Christ shews itself by working the soul to abase 
itself, that Christ may be exalted, to lessen itself to greaten Christ, to 
cloud itself that Christ alone may shine. Love cares not what it is, 
nor what it doth, so it may but advance the Lord Jesus ; it makes the 
soul willing to be a footstool for Christ, to be anything, to be nothing, 
that Christ may be all in all.* 

Thirdly, That love that accompanies salvation, sometimes shews itself 
by working the soul to be cheerful and resolute, to be patient and con- 
stant in sufferings for Christ: 1 Cor. xiii. 7, ' Love endureth all things.' 
Love will not complain, love will not say the burden is too great, the 
prison is too dark, the furnace is too hot, the chains are too heavy, the 
cup is too bitter, &c., Acts xxi. 13. A true lover of Christ can slight 
his life, out of love to Christ, as that blessed virgin in Basil, who, being 
condemned for Christianity to the fire, and having her estate and life 
offered her, if she would worship idols, cried, ' Let money perish, and 
life vanish, Christ is better than all.' 

' *^^ m3, Flee away speedily, my beloved. 

' Austin longed to see that head that was crowned with thorns. [Confessions. — G.] 
•* God hath reserved the best wine, the best things, till last. 
* Rev. iv. 10, 11 ; John iii. 26-31 ; Philip, iii. 7, 8. 
VOL. II. H h 



482 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

So Alice Driver said, ' I drove my father's plough often, yet I can die 
for Christ as soon as any of you all.'^ That love that accompanies sal- 
vation, makes a Christian free and forward in suffering anything that 
makes for the glory of Christ. 

Fourthly, that love that accompanies salvation, shews itself by work- 
ing the soul to be pleased or displeased, as Christ is pleased or dis- 
plmsed. A soul that loves Christ hath his eye upon Christ, and that 
which makes Christ frown makes him frown, and what makes Christ 
smile makes him smile. Love is impatient of anything that may dis- 
please a beloved Christ. 

Look what Harpalus once said, Qtiod regi placet, mihi placet, what 
pleaseth the king pleaseth me, that says a true lover of Christ, What 
pleaseth Christ, that pleaseth me.^ Holiness pleaseth Christ and holi- 
ness pleaseth me, says a lover of Christ. It pleaseth Christ to overcome 
evil with good, to overcome hatred with love, enmity with amity, pridfe 
with humility, passion with meekness, &c., and the same pleaseth me, 
says a lover of Christ. 1 John iv. 17, 'As he is, so are we in this world.' 
Our love answers to Christ's love, and our hatred answers to Christ's 
hatred ; he loves all righteousness and hates all wickedness ; so do we, 
say the lovers of Christ, Ps. cxix. 113, 128, 163. 

It is said of Constantine's children, that they resembled their father to 
the life, that they put him wholly on.^ The true lovers of Christ re- 
semble Christ to the life, and they put him wholly on. Hence it is that 
they are called Christ, 1 Cor. xii. 12. 

Fifthly, True love to Christ shews itself sometimes by working the 
lovers of Christ to expose themselves to suffering, to save Christ from 
suffering in his gloi'y; to adventure the loss of their own crowns, to 
keep Christ's crown upon his head ; to adventure drowning, to save 
Christ's honour from sinking. Thus did the three children, Daniel, 
Moses, and other worthies, Heb. xl 

I have read of a servant who dearly loved his master, and knowing 
that his master was looked for by his enemies, he put on his master's 
clothes, and was taken for his master, and suffered death for him. 

Divine love will make a man do as much for Christ ; it will make a 
man hang for Christ and burn for Christ: Rev. xii. 11, 'They loved 
not their lives unto the death.' Christ and his truth was dearer to 
them than their lives. They slighted, contemned, yea, despised their 
very lives, when they stood in competition with Christ and his glory, 
and chose rather to suffer the greatest misery than that Christ shoulcj 
lose the least dram of his glory. 

Sixthly, That love that accompanies salvation shews itself sometimes 
by working the lovers of Christ to be affected and afflicted with the dis- 
honours tlmt are done to Christ: Ps. cxix. 136, 'Mine eyes run down 
with rivers of tears, because men keep not thy law,' Jer. ix. 1, 2. l^'o 
Lot's soul was vexed, racked, and tortured with the filthy conversation 
of the wicked Sodomites, 2 Pet. ii. 7, 8.* The turning of his own flesh, 

' Clarke, as before, p. 504. — G. 

' It is a saying in natural philosophy, that it is Naturaliftimum opnt viventis gtnerare 
tibi simile, the most naturtJ act or work of every living thing to produce another like unto 
itself. Ps. xlv. 7; and cxix. 104, 113, 128, 163. ' Eusebius, in his Ecclesiastical History. 

* ijSxirrax'^f* signifies two things : (1.) the search and examination of a thing ; (2.) the 
racking and vexing a man upon the trial. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 483 

his wife, into a pillar of salt did not vex him, but their sins did rack his 
righteous soul : Ps. Ixix. 9, ' The reproaches of them that reproached 
thee fell upon me.' A woman is most wounded in her husband, so is 
a Christian in his Christ. Though Moses was as a dumb child in his 
own cause, yet when the Israelites, by making and dancing about their 
golden calf, had wounded the honour and glory of God, he shews himself 
to be much affected and afflicted for the dishonour done to God. The 
statue of Apollo is said to shed tears for the afflictions of the Grecians, 
though he could not help them ; so a true lover of Christ will shed tears 
for those dishonours that are done to Christ, though he knows not how 
to prevent them.' It is between Christ and his lovers as it is between 
two lute strings that are tuned one to another ; no sooner one is struck, 
but the other trembles ; so no sooner is Christ struck, but a Christian 
trembles, and no sooner is a Christian struck, but Christ trembles : 
' Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me V Acts ix. 4. 

Seventhly, That love that accompanies salvation doth shew itself by 
working the soul to observe with a curious critical eye Ghrisfs coun- 
tenance and carriage, and by causing the soul to he sad or cheerful, 
as Christ's carriage and countenance is towards the soul. When Christ 
looks sad, and carries it sadly, then to be sad, as Peter was : Christ cast 
a sad look upon him, and that made his heart sad ; he went forth and 
wept bitterly.2 ^^^ when Christ looks sweetly, and speaks kindly, and 
carries it lovingly, then to be cheerful and joyful, as the church was in 
Cant. iii. 4, ' It was but a little that I passed from them, but I found 
him whom my soul loveth : I held him, and would not let him go, until 
I had brought him into my mother's house, and into the chamber of 
her that conceived me.' So the church in Isa. Ixi. 10, 'I will greatly 
rejoice in the Lord, my soul shall be joyful in my God ; for he hath 
clothed me with the garments of salvation, he hath covered me with a 
robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom decketh himself with ornaments, 
and as a bride adorneth herself with her jewels.'' A true lover of 
Christ hath still his eye upon Christ, and as his countenance stands, so 
is he glad or sad, cheerful or sorrowful. Tigranes in Xenophon coming 
to redeem his father and friends, with his wife, that were taken prisoners 
by King Cyrus, was asked among other questions this, viz., what ransom 
he would give for his wife ? he answered he would redeem her liberty 
with his own life. But having prevailed for all their liberties, as they 
returned together, every one commended Cyrus for a goodly man, and 
Tigranes would needs know of his wife what she thought of him. 
' Tndy,' said she, ' I cannot tell, for I did not so much as look on him 
or see him.' ' Whom then,' said he, wondering, ' did you look upon X 
' Whom should I look upon,' said she, * but him that would have re- 
deemed my liberty with the loss of his own life.'* So a Christian, a 



• Though king Crcesns his son were dumb all his lifetime, yet when one would have 
struck at his father, the affection that he liad to his father broke the bars of his speech, 
and he cried out. Take heed of killing the king. You know how to apply it. [Cf. 
ISibbes, 701. vii. note i, p. 262. — G.] 

2 l^bi amor. Hi oculus, as love came in by the eye, so it delights by the same door to 
run out to Christ. 

3 ^>^\H ^W, in rejoicing, I will rejoice ; that is, I will exceedingly rejoice. 

* Plutarch. Lucull. — G. 



484- HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

true lover of Christ, esteems nothing worth a looking upon but Christ, 
who hath redeemed him with his own blood. 

Eighthly, That love that accompanies salvation, reaches forth a hand 
of kindness to those that bear the image of Christ.^ 1 John v. 1, 2, 
' Every one that loveth him that begat, loveth him also that is begotten 
of him. By this we know that we love the children of God, when we 
love God, and keep his commandments. He that loveth not his brother, 
whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen V 

Now, because many mistake in their love to the saints, and the con- 
sequences that follow that mistake are very dangerous and pernicious 
to the souls of men, I shall therefore briefly hint to you the properties 
of that love to the saints that accompanies salvation. And, 

(1.) The first property. The first is this, true love to the saints is 
spiritual; it is a love for the image of God that is stamped upon the soul. 
Col. i. 8, 'Epaphras hath declared to us your love in the Spirit.' A soul that 
truly loves, loves the Father for his own sake, and the children for the 
Father's sake. Many there are that love Christians for their goods, not 
for their good ; they love them for the money that is in their purse, 
but not for the grace that is in their hearts. Many, like the Bohemian 
cur, fawn upon a good suit. Love to the saints, for the image of God 
stamped upon them, is a flower that grows not in nature's garden. No 
man can love grace in another man's heart but he that hath grace in 
his own. Men doth not more naturally love their parents, and love 
their children, and love themselves, than they do naturally hate the 
image of God upon his people and ways.^ True love is for what of the 
divine nature, for what of Christ and grace shines in a man. It is one 
thing to love a godly man, and another thing to love him for godliness. 
Many love godly men as they are politicians, or potent, or learned, or 
of a sweet nature, but all this is but natural love ; but to love them 
because they are spiritually lovely, because they are ' all glorious 
within, and their raiment is of embroidered gold,' Ps. xlv. 13, is to love 
them as becometh saints ; it is to love them at so high and noble a rate 
that no hypocrite in the world can reach to it. The wasps fly about 
the tradesman's shop, not out of love to him, but the honey and the 
fruit that is there. This age is full of such wasps. 

(2.) The second property. Secondly, True love to the saints is uni- 
versal to one Christian as well as another, to all as well as any;^ to 
poor Lazarus as well as to rich Abraham, to a despised Job as well as 
to an admired David, to an afflicted Joseph as well as to a raised Jacob, 
to a despised disciple as well as to an exalted apostle. Philip, iv. 21, 
' Salute every saint,' the meanest as well as the richest, the weakest as 
well as the strongest, the lowest as well as the highest. They have all 
the same Spirit, the same Jesus, the same faith ; they are all fellow- 
members, fellow-travellers, fellow- soldiers, fellow-citizens, fellow-heirs, 
and therefore must they all be loved with a sincere and cordial love. 

^ Jerome professed how much he loved Christ in Augustine, and Augustine in Christ. 

* Remember, wicked men, God himself is wronged by the injury that is done to his 
image. The contempt and despite is done to the king himself, which is done to his 
image or coin. 

' Eph. i. 16, Col. 1. 4. It was the glory of the Ephesians and Colossians that their 
faith and love reached to all the saints ; it was not narrow, and confined to some par- 
ticulars, but it was universal. 



Rom. VIIL 32-34<.] heaven on earth. 485 

The apostle James doth roundly condemn that partial love that was 
among professors in his days, James ii. 1 , 2. Not that the apostle doth 
absolutely prohibit a civil differencing of men in place from others, but 
when the rich man's wealth is more regarded than the poor man's god- 
liness, and when men carry it so to the rich, as to cast scorn, contempt, 
disgrace, and discouragement upon the godly poor; this is a sin for 
which God will visit the sons of pride.' 

Pompey told his Cornelia, ' It is no praise for thee to have loved 
PoTnpeium Magnum, Pompey the Great, but if thou lovest PoTnpeium 
Miserum, Pompey the Miserable, thou shalt be a pattern for imitation 
to all posterity.' I will leave you to apply it. 

Romanus the martyr, who was bom of noble parentage, entreated 
his persecutors that they would not favour him for his nobility : * For 
it is not,' said he, ' the blood of my ancestors, but my Christian faith, 
that makes me noble.' ^ 

Verily, he that loves one saint for the grace that is in him, for that 
holiness, that image of God, that is upon him, he cannot but fall in love 
with every saint that bears the lovely image of the Father upon him ; 
he cannot but love a saint in rags, as well as a saint in robes ; a saint 
upon tlie dunghill, as well as a saint upon the throne. Usually the 
most ragged Christians are the richest Christians; they usually have 
most of heaven that have least of earth, James ii. 5. The true diamond 
shines best in the dark.^ 

(3.) The third property. Thirdly, Our love to the saints is right, 
when we love them and delight in them, answerable to the spirittual 
causes of love that shiTie in them, as the more holy and gracious they 
are, the more we love them : * Ps. xvi. 2, 3, ' My goodness extendeth 
not to thee, but to the saints that are in the earth, and to the excellent, 
in whom is all my delight.' This is most certain, if godliness be the 
reason why we love any, then the more any excel othere in the love, 
spirit, power, and practice of godliness, the more we should love them. 
There are those that seem to love such godly men as are weak in their 
judgments, low in their principles, and dull in their practices, and yet 
look with a squint eye upon those that are more sound in their judg- 
ments, more high in their principles, and more holy in their practices, 
which doubtless speaks out more hypocrisy than sincerity. Verily, he 
hath either no grace, or but a little grace, that doth not love most 
where the spiritual causes of love do most shine and appear. Surely 
those Christians are under a very great distemper of spirit, that envy 
those gifts and graces of God in others, that outshine their own- 
John's disciples muttered and murmured, because Christ had more 
followers and admirers than John ; and John's disciples are not all 
dead, yea, they seem to have a new resurrection in these days. Well, 

• Non gent led mens, non genus sed genius, not race or place, but grace, truly sets forth 
a man. * Clarke, as before, p. 63. — G. 

3 Yet there is a love of familiarity, which we may lawfully shew more to one godly 
man than to another. Thus Christ loved John more than the other disciples. 

* Yet this must be granted, that grace in a rugged, unhewn nature, is like a gold ring 
on a leprous hand, or a diamond set in iron. As a gold ring is most pleasing and taking, 
wh^n it is on a neat clean hand, and as a diamond when it is set in a ring of gold ; so 
grace is most pleasing and taking to us in a sweet nature, and not so much when it is in 
a rugged, unhewn nature ; the beauty and glory of it being clouded and darkened by a 
rugged nature. 



486 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

as the fairest day hath its clouds, the finest linen its spots, the richest 
jewels their flaws, the sweetest fruits their worms, so when precious 
Christians are under temptations, they may, and too often do envy and 
repine at those excellent graces, abilities, and excellencies that cloud, 
darken, and outshine their own. The best of men are too full of pride 
and self-love, and that makes them sometimes cast dirt and disgi-ace 
upon that excellency that themselves want, as that great man that 
could not write his own name, and yet called the liberal arts a public 
poison and pestilence.' There is no greater argument that our grace is 
true, and tbat we do love others for grace's sake, than our loving them best 
that have most grace, though they have least of worldly goods. A pearl 
is rich, if found on a dunghill, though it may glitter more when set in a 
ring of gold ; so many a poor believer is rich and glorious in the eye of 
Christ, and should be so in ours, though, like Job, he sits upon a dung- 
hill, though to the world he may seem to glister most when adorned 
with riches, honour, and outward pomp, &c. 

(4.) The fourth property. Fourthly, True love to saints is constant: 
1 Cor. xiii. 8, ' Love never faileth.' It continues for ever in heaven. 
That love was never true that is not constant. Heb. xiii. 1, 'Let 
brotherly love continue.' True love is constant in prosperity and 
adversity, in storms and calms, in health and sickness, in presence and 
in absence.^ ' Thy own friend, and thy father's friend, forsake not.' ' A 
friend,' says the wise man, ' loves at all times, and a brother is born for 
adversity,' Prov. xvii. 17. Prosperity makes friends, and adversity will 
try friends. A true friend is neither known in prosperity, nor hid in 
adversity. 

True love is like to that of Ruth's to Naomi, and that of Jonathan's 
to David, permanent and constant. Many there be whose love to the 
saints is like Job's brooks. Job vi. 15, 16, which in winter when we 
have no need, overflows with tenders of service and shews of love ; but 
when the season is hot and dry, and the poor thirsty traveller stands in 
most need of water to refresh him, then the brooks are quite dried up. 
They are like the swallow that will stay by you in the summer, but fly 
from you in the winter. 

It is observed by Joseph us of the Samaritans, that whenever the Jews' 
affairs prospered, they would be their friends, and profess much love to 
them ; but if the Jews were in trouble, and wanted their assistance, 
then they would not own them, nor have anything to do with them. 
This age is full of such Samaritans, yet, such as truly love will always 
love.* In the primitive times it was veiy much taken notice of by the 
very heathen, that in the depth of misery, when fathers and mothers 
forsook their children. Christians, otherwise strangers, stuck close to one 
another ; their love of religion, and one of another, proved firmer than 
that of nature. ' They seem to take away the sun out of the world,' 

' Eusebiua speaks of him in his Ecclesiastical History. \^As hef<yre: Cf. Index. — G.] 

' Consalus, a Spanish bishop and inquisitor, wondered how the Christians had that 
commandment, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself, so indelibly printed on their 
hearts, that no torture could blut it out, and make them confess and betray one another, 
or cease from loving one another. [Rather Consalvus or Gonsalvus Reginaldus, 1667. 
-G.] 

* Augustus Caesar was a constant friend to those whom he loved ; he used to say, Amare 
nee cito detisto, nee temere incipio, late ere I love, as long ere I leave. [Samaritans : Antiq. 
b. ix. c. xiv. Bee. 3 : Cf. also xi. c. viii. sec. 6, and xii. c. v., and Sibbes, iii. p. 476.— G.] 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 487 

said the orator, ' who taketh away friendship from the life of men/' 
and we do not more need fire and water than constant friendship. 

Ninthly, That love that accompanies salvation, doth manifest and 
shew itself by working the soul to be quiet and still under Christ's re- 
bukes. Peter sits down quiet under a threefold reproof, ' Lord, thou 
knowest all things, thou knowest that I love thee/ John xxi. 16-18. 
So Eli, ' It is the Lord, let him do what seems good in his own eyes/ 
1 Sam. iii. 18. And Aaron 'held his peace,' when he saw the flames about 
his sons' ears, Lev. x. 3. So David, ' I was dumb, I opened not my 
mouth, because thou didst it,' Ps. xxxix. 9. The lovers of Christ are 
like the Scythian, that went naked in the snow ; and when Alexander 
wondered how he could endure it, he answered, ' I am all forehead.' 
Oh the lovers of Christ are all forehead, to bear the rebukes of the Lord 
Jesus. 

The lovers of Christ know that all his rebukes are from love ; 'whom 
he loves, he rebukes,' Rev. iii. 19 ; they can see smiles through Christ's 
frowns ; they know, that to argue that Christ hates them because he 
rebukes them, is the devil's logic ; they know, that all the rebukes of 
Christ are in order to their internal and eternal good, and that quiets 
them ; they know that all the rebukes of Christ are but forerunners of 
some glorious manifestations of greater love to their souls. Ps. Ixxi. 20, 
21, ' Thou, which hast shewed me great and sore troubles, shalt quicken 
me again, and shalt bring me up again from the depths of the earth. 
Thou shalt increase my greatness, and comfort me on every side.' They 
know that it is the sorest judgment in the world, to go on freely in a 
way of sin without rebukes. ' Ephraim is joined to idols, let him alone/ 
Hosea iv. 17. And therefore they keep silence before the Lord, they 
lay one hand upon their mouths, and the other upon their hearts, and 
so sit mute before the holy one. 

Tenthly, That love that accompanies salvation, shews itself by work- 
ing the heart to be affected and afflicted with the least dishonours that 
are done to Christ. Love is curious of little things ; it is as much afflicted 
with an idle word or with an impure dream, as lovers of Christ are with 
adultery or blasphemy. David did but cut off the lap of Saul's gar- 
ment, and his heart smote him, 1 Sam. xxiv. 5 ; though he did it to 
convince Saul of his false jealousy, and his own innocency. Love will 
not allow of the least infirmity. Rom. vii. 15, ' That which I do, I allow 
not.' Love will make a man aim at angelical purity and perfect in- 
nocency ; love will be getting up to the top of Jacob's ladder ; love can 
rest in nothing below perfection ; love makes a man look more at what 
he should be than at what he is ; it makes a man strive as for life, to 
imitate the highest examples, and to write after the choicest copies. 
Love fears every image of offence, it trembles at the appearance of one, 
it doth not, it cannot allow itself to do anything that looks like sin ;' 
it hates ' the garment spotted with the flesh ;' it shuns the occasions 
of sin as it shuns hell itself This is the divine curiosity and glory of 
a Christian's love. Love says it is better to die with hunger than to eat 
that which is offered to idoLs.' 

• Cicero, De Amieitia.—Q. 

* The sin, and the coat of sin, is to be hated, saith Ambrose. 
' Melixu morifame, quam idoLothylis vetci. — Augustine. 



488 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

I have read of a holy man,' who, out of his love to Christ and hatred 
of idolatry, would not give one halfpenny toward the building of an 
idol's temple, though he was provoked thereunto by intolerable torments. 
Love knows that the least evils are contrary to the greatest good ;* they 
are contrary to the nature of Christ, the commands of Christ, the spirit 
of Christ, the grace of Christ, the glory of Christ, the blood of Christ. 
Love knows that little dishonours, if I may call any sin little, make way 
for greater, as little thieves unlock the door and make way for greater. 
Love knows that little sins multiplied become great. As love knows 
that there is nothing lesser than a grain of sand ; so love knows that 
there is nothing heavier than the sand of the sea, when multiplied. 

Eleventhly, That love that accompanies salvation, will shew itself by 
keeping the doors of the heart shut against those treacherous lovers that 
would draw the heart from Christ. Love is a golden key to let in Christ, 
and a strong lock to keep out others. Though many may knock at 
love's door, yet love will open to none but Christ : Cant. v. 6, ' I opened 
to my beloved ;' and viii. 7, ' Many waters cannot quench love, neither 
can the floods drown it : if a man would give all the substance of his 
house for love, it would utterly be contemned ;' Boz Jabuzu, contemn- 
ing it would be contemned. When the world would buy his love, he 
cries out with Peter, ' Thy money perish with thee,' Acts viii. 20. Love 
makes a man look with a holy scorn and disdain upon all persons and 
things, that attempt either to force or flatter her out of her love and 
loyalty to her beloved.^ It is neither force nor fraud, it is neither pro- 
mises nor threatenings, it is neither the cross nor the crown, the palace 
nor the prison, the rod nor the robe, the hempen* halter nor the golden 
chain, that will make love embrace a stranger in the room of Christ. 
Go, says divine love, offer your gold and empty glories to others ; your 
pleasures and your treasures to others ; put on your lion's skin and 
fright others ; as for my part, I scorn and contemn your golden offers, 
and I disdain and deride your rage and threats. Love makes a man 
too noble, too high, too gallant, and too faithful, to open to any lover 
but Christ, to let any lie between the breasts but Christ : Cant. i. 13, 
* A bundle of myrrh is my beloved unto me ; he shall lie all night betwixt 
my breasts.' When Basil was tempted with money and preferment, he 
answers, Pecuniam da quce 'petmianeat, ac continuo duret, gloriam 
qucB semper floreat : Give money that may last for ever, and glory that 
may eternally flourish. Love makes a man cry out when tempted, 
Let not any man think that he will embrace other men's goods to for- 
sake Christ, who hath forsaken his own proper goods to follow Christ.* 
Love makes a man cry out when tempted, as that worthy convert did, 
£go non sum ego, I am not the man that I was ; when my heart was 
void of divine love, I was as easily conquered as I was tempted. Oh 
but now he hath shed abroad his love in my soul, I am not the man 
that I was, I had rather die than fly, or fall before a temptation. 

Twelfthly, That love that accompanies salvation, shews itself by 

* Marcus Arethusius, in Julian's time. [Clarke, as before. — G.] 

• The Nicene fathers would not gratify Arius, no, not in one tittle. 

• So did Luther, Galeacius [Carraciolus], that noble Italian. [Cf. Sibbes, vol. i., 
pp. 289, 290, note rf.— G.] * Spelled • hempton.'— G. 

* Plato, saith Pliny, took as much delight and glory in those dignities and honour* 
he denied, as he did in those he did enjoy. It is just so with the saints. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 489 

secret visits, by secret expressions of love. A soul that truly loves 
Christ, loves to meet him in a corner, to meet him behind the door, 
Cant. ii. 14, to meet him in the clefts of the rock, where no eye sees, 
nor no ear hears, nor no heart observes. Mat. vi. 6. Feigned love is 
much in commending and kissing Christ upon the stage ; but unfeigned 
love is much in embracing and weeping over Christ in a closet. The 
Pharisee loved to stand praying in the market-place and in the temple. 
Mat. vi. 2 ; but Nathanael was with Christ under the fig-tree, John 
i. 48 ; and Cornelius was at it in the corner of his house. Acts x. ; and 
Peter was at it on the leads ; and the spouse was at it in the villages. 
Cant. vii. 11. Souls that truly love Christ, are much in secret visits, 
in secret prayer, in secret sighing, in secret groaning, in secret mourn- 
ing, &a True love is good at bolting of the door, and is always best 
when it is most with Christ in a corner. The secret discoveries that 
Christ makes to souls, do much oblige them to closet services. 

Arcesilaus in Plutarch,^ visiting his sick friend, and perceiving his 
necessity that he wanted, and yet his modesty that he was ashamed to 
ask, that he might satisfy the one and yet salve the other, secretly con- 
veyed money under his pillow, which his friend finding after he was 
gone, was wont to say, ' Arcesilaus stole this.' So Christ steals secret 
kindnesses upon his people, and that draws them out to be much in 
secret, in closet services. 

Thirteenthly, That love that accompanies salvation, shews itself hy 
breathing after more clear evidence and full assurance of Christ's love 
to the soul. Divine love would fain have her drop turned into an ocean, 
her spark into a flame, her penny into a pound, her mite into a million. 
A soul that truly loves, can never see enough, nor never taste enough, 
nor never feel enough, nor never enjoy enough of the love of Christ ; 
when once they have found his love to be better than wine, then 
nothing will satisfy them but the kisses of his mouth : Cant. i. 2, ' Let 
him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth.' Not with a kiss, but with 
the kisses of his mouth. A soul once kissed by Christ, can never have 
enough of the kisses of Christ ; his lips drop myrrh and mercy ; no 
kisses to the kisses of Christ. The more any soul loves Christ, the more 
serious, studious, and industrious will that soul be to have the love of 
Christ discovered, confirmed, witnessed, and sealed to it.'* That is a 
sweet word of the spouse : Cant. viii. 6, ' Set me as a seal upon thy 
heart, as a seal upon thy arm ; for love is strong as death.' Set me as 
a seal upon thy heart ; that is, let me be deeply engraven as a seal into 
thy heart and affections ; let the love and remembrance of me make a 
deep impression in thee, and set me as a seal or signet on thy arm. 

[1.] The seal, you know, is for ratifying, confirming, and making sure 
of things. Oh ! says the spouse, establish and confirm me in thy love, 
and in the outward expressions and manifestations of it. 

[2.] Seals among the Jews were used not as ornaments only, but as 
monuments of love that were continually in sight and remembrance. 
Oh ! says the church, let me be still in thy sight and remembrance as a 
monument of thy love. In the old law, you know, the high priest did 

• Founder of the New Academy. — G. 

' The more a virgin's love is drawn out to another, the more she desires to be con- 
^rmed and assured of his love to her. 



490 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34, 

bear the name of Israel eugraven on stones upon his heart and shoulder 
for a memorial, Exodus xxviii. 11, 12, 21, 29. Ah ! says the church, let 
my name be deeply engraven upon thy heart, let me be always in thy 
eye, let me be always a memorial upon thy shoulder. 

[3.] Great men have their signets upon their hands in precious 
esteem : Jer. xxii. 24, ' As I live, saith the Lord, though Coniah the 
son of Jehoiakim king of Judah were the signet upon my right hand, 
yet would I pluck thee thence.' Ah ! says the spouse. Oh highly prize 
me, Lord Jesus ! highly esteem of me ; oh let me be as dear and precious 
unto thee as the signet that thou earnest about with thee, or as signets 
are to great men that wear them ! 

Lastly, That love that accompanies salvation, shews itself by woi'k- 
ing a true lover of Christ to commit his richest treasures, his choicest 
jewels, to the care and custody of Christ} Where we love we will 
trust, and as we love we will trust. Little trust speaks out little love, 
great trust speaks out great love. The lovers of Christ commend to 
Christ's care their pearls of greatest price, their names, their lives, their 
souls, their crowns, their innocency, their all. It was a notable saying 
of Luther, ' Let him that died for my soul see to the salvation of it.' 
Caesar received not his wounds from the swords of enemies, but from 
the hands of friends, that is, from trusting in them. Oh, but the lovers 
of Christ shall never receive any wounds by trusting in Christ, by com- 
mitting their choicest jewels to his care; for he hath a powerful hand 
and a wise and loving heart ! Christ will hold fast whatever the Father 
or the saints put into his hand. 

And thus I have shewed you what that love is that doth accompany 
salvation. 

I come now, in the sixth place, to shew you what prayer that is that 
doth accompany salvation. But I see that I must contract what re- 
mains into a narrow room, lest I should tire out both the reader and 
myself, which, that I may not, I shaU endeavour by divine assistance 
to mind brevity in what remains. 

Now, that prayer doth accompany salvation, I have formerly shewed. 
Now I am briefly to shew you what prayer that is that doth accompany 
salvation, and that I shall do in these following particulars. 

(1 .) The first property. First, Prayer is a divine worship wherein 
we speak to- God in faith, humility, sincerity, and fervency of spirit, 
through the mediation of Christ, begging those good things that we and 
others want, deprecating that we and others fear, and giving thanks 
for tlcai we and others have received} Prayer is a speaking to God 
face to face ; it is Jacob's ladder by which the soul climbs up to heaven ; 
it is Noah's dove that goes and returns not till it brings assurance of 
peace. 

But not to please you with notions, you must remember that that 
prayer that accompanies salvation is such prayer as hath in it all the 
requisites of prayer. Now there are four requisites in prayer. 

' Pb. xxxi, 15, 80 Job, so Paul ; 2 Tim. i. 12, and iv. 7, 8 ; Micah vii. 8, 9 ; Deut. vi. 
22. 

* The matter of prayer may be reduced to these heads: (1.) petition ; (2.) deprecation; 
(3 ) intercession ; (4.) expostulation. There are other distinctions in regard of the 



Rom. VIIL 32-34-.] heaven on earth. 491 

[].] Tlie first requisite. First, The person must be righteous : James 
V. 16, 'The fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much ;' John 
ix. 31, ' God heareth not sinners.' The Jews urge it as a proverb, An 
unclean person poUuteth his own prayers. Good motions from a bad 
heart make no music in heaven ; the sweet words that drop from a 
leper's lips are but lies in the account of God, Hosea xi. 12. 

1 have read of a jewel, that, being put in a dead man's mouth, loseth 
all its virtue. Prayer in the mouth of a wicked man that is dead God- 
wards, Christ-wards, heaven- wards, and holiness- wards, is a jewel that 
loseth all its virtue: Ps. L 16, 17, 'But unto the wicked God saith. 
What hast thou to do to declare my statutes, or that thou shouldst 
take my covenant into thy mouth ? seeing that thou hatest instruc- 
tion, and casteth my words behind thee.' Bias, an heathen, being at 
sea in a great storm, and perceiving many wicked wretches with him 
in the ship, calling upon the gods, ' Oh,' saith he, ' forbear prayer, hold 
your tongues ; I would not have the gods take notice that you are here ; 
they will sure drown us all, if they should.'^ You are wise, and know 
how to apply it.^ 

[2.] The second requisite. The second requisite in prayer is this, 
viz.. The matter of your prayer must he good : 1 John v. 1 4, ' And 
this is the confidence that we have in him. That if we ask anything ac- 
cording to his will, he heareth us.' The favourites of heaven have no 
further the ear of the King of kings in prayer, than the matter of their 
prayer is good, and ' agreeable to his will,' E,om. viii. 27. The matter 
of your prayer must fall under some particular or general precept or 
promise, or else God will never own it nor honour it with acceptance. 
You must not pray as Augustine prayed before his conversion ; he 
prayed for continency, with a proviso : ' Lord, give me eontinency,' saith 
he, ' but not yet.'^ Such hypocrisy is double iniquity, and God will 
deal with such sinners accordingly.* 

[3.] Tlie third requisite. Thirdly, As the matter of your prayer 
must be good, so the manner of your prayer must be right. God re- 
gards not so much the matter as the manner of our prayer. ** God loves 
adverbs better than nouns ; not to pray only, but to pray well. Non 
bonum, sed bene agere, not to do good, but to do it well. 

Now for the better and further clearing of this truth, I shall shew 
you, by divine assistance, what it is to pray in the right manner, and 
that I shall do in the following particulars : 

First, To pray in a right manner, is to pray under standingly, to 
pray knowingly : 1 Cor. xiv. 15, ' I will pray with understanding.' He 
that doth not pray understandingly, doth not pray but prate ; as that 

manner ; as, first, mental prayer, which is the inward lifting up of the heart to God ; 
secondly, vocal, which is uttered by words, as the publican, ' God be merciful to me a 
sinner ;' tliirdly, there is conceived prayer, and prescribed prayer ; fourthly, there is 
public or private prayer. These hints may suflice as to this. 
» Diog. Laert, i. 82-88 ; Plut., Sol. iv G. 

2 Quid prodest voce invocare, quern operibus negas ? — Jerome. What availeth it to 
invocate him with thy voice, whom thou deniest in thy works ? 

' Confessions, b. viii, 27, et alibi. — G. 

* lt<was both a profane and blasphemous speech of that atheistical wretch, that told 
God he was no common beggar, he never troubled him before with prayer, and if he 
would hear him that time, he would never trouble him again. — Heil. Mic. p. 876. 

» Criton. 



492 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

t 

parrot in Rome that could distinctly say over the whole creed : John 
iv. 22, ' Ye worship ye know not what/ says Christ. So many pray 
they know not what. ' Without knowledge the mind cannot be good,' 
Prov. xix. 2. And can the prayer be good when the mind is bad ? A 
blind mind, a blind sacrifice, a blind priest, are abominable to God.^ It 
was a good saying of one, ' God heareth not the words of one that 
prayeth,' saith he, ' unless he that prayeth heareth them first himself 
And, verily, God will never understand that prayer that we do not un- 
derstand ourselves. 

Secondly, To pray in a right manner, is to pi^ay believingly ;* Heb. 
xi. 6, * He that cometh unto God, must believe that he is ;' that is, that 
he is really as good, as gracious, as glorious, as excellent, as constant, 
&c., as his word reports him to be ; and that he is ' a rewarder of them 
that diligently seek him :' Mark xi. 24, ' Therefore I say unto you, What 
things soever ye desire, when ye pray, believe that ye receive them, 
and ye shall have them.' In the Greek it is Xafi^anri, in the present 
tense, ' ye do receive them,' to shew the certainty of receiving them. 
You shall as certainly receive the good things that believingly you ask 
in prayer, as if you had them already in your hand. God will never 
let the hand of faith go empty away in prayer. Faith is God's darling, 
and he never fails to give it a worthy portion, a Benjamin's portion, a 
Hannah's portion, a double portion : James i. 5-7, ' If any of you lack 
wisdom, let him avsk of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and up- 
braideth not ; and it shall be given him. But let him ask in faith, 
nothing wavering : for he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven 
with the wind, and tossed. For let not that man think that he shall 
receive anything of the Lord.' He that prayeth doubtingly, shuts the 
gates of heaven against his own prayers.^ 

It is reported in the life of Luther, that when he prayed it was tarda 
reverentia ut si Deo, et tantafiducia ut si amico, with so much reve- 
rence, as if he were praying to God ; and with so much boldness, as if 
he had been speaking to his friend. Faith in prayer makes a man divinely 
familiar and bold with God in prayer. That prayer that hath not the 
image and stamp of faith upon it, is no prayer in divine account. The 
sweetest flowers of paradise are only acceptable to God as they are ten- 
dered to him by the hand of faith. 

Augustus, when a poor man came to present a petition to him with 
his hand shaking and trembling out of fear, the emperor was much dis- 
pleased, and said, ' It is not fit that any should come with a petition to 
a king as if a man were giving meat to an elephant ;' that is, afraid to 
be destroyed by him. 

Verily Jehovah loves to see every one of his petitioners to come to 
him with a stedfast faith, and not with a trembling hand. Christ gets 
most glory, and the soul gets most good, by those prayers that are ac- 
companied with the actings of faith. 

' Ignorai sane inqmibut omnia, saith Aristotle, ignorance is the source of all sin, th» 
very well-spring from which all wickedness doth issue. 

' The philosopher could say, Qui titnide rogat, docet negate. He that eraveth fearfully, 
draweth on a denial. One of the ancients describes prayer thus : it is, saith he, AscentuM 
mentis ad Deum, a climbing up of the heart to God, which cannot be done but by th« 
power of faith. 

* Unbelief is virtually all ill ; therefore fight especially against it. 



EOM. VIII. 32-34.] HEAVEN ON EARTH. 493 

Thirdly, To pray in a right manner, is to pray intensely, fervently, 
earnestly. So James v. 16, ' The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous 
man availeth much ;' or, as the Greek hath it, ' the working prayer,' 
that is, such prkyer as sets the whole man a-work.' The word signifies 
such a working as notes the liveliest activity that can be. As physic 
kills the body if it work not, so doth prayer the soul, if it be not work- 
ing-prayer. As a painted fire is no fire, a dead man no man, so a cold 
prayer is no prayer. In a painted fire there is no heat ; in a dead man 
there is no life ; so in a cold prayer there is no omnipotency, no devo- 
tion, no blessing. It is not cold but working prayer that can lock up 
heaven three years, and open heaven's gate at pleasure, and bring down 
the sweetest blessings upon our heads, and the choicest favours into 
our hearts. Cold prayers are as arrows without heads, as swords without 
edges, as birds without wings : they pierce not, they cut not, they fly 
not up to heaven. Cold prayers do always freeze before they reach to 
heaven. So Jacob was earnest in his wrestling with God : ' Let me 
alone,' says God. ' I will not let thee go except thou bless me/ says 
Jacob, Gen, xxxii, 24-27. Jacob, though lamed and hard laid at, will 
not let the Lord go without a blessing, Jacob holds with his hands 
when his joints were out of joint, and so, as a prince, prevails with God. 
Jacob prays and weeps, and weeps and prays, and so prevails with God : 
Hosea xii. 4, * Yea, he had power over the angel, and prevailed : he wept 
and made supplication unto him,' &c.^ It is not the labour of the lips, 
but the travail of the heart ; it is not the pouring forth a flood of words, 
but the pouring out of the soul, that makes a man a prince, a prevailer 
with God. A man that would gain victory over God in prayer, must 
strain every string of his heart ; he must, in beseeching God, besiege 
him, and so get the better of him ; he must strive in prayer even to an 
agony ; he must be like importunate beggars, that will not be put off 
with frowns, or silence, or sad answers. Those that would be masters 
of their requests, must with the importunate widow press God so far as 
to put him to the blush ; they must with a holy impudence, as Basil 
speaks, make God ashamed to look them in the face, if he should deny 
the importunity of their souls.^ An importunate soul will never cease 
till he speed ; he will devour all discouragements ; yea, he will turn dis- 
couragements into encouragements, as the woman of Canaan did, till 
Christ says, ' Be unto thee, O soul, as thou wilt.' As a body without a 
soul, much wood without fire, a bullet in a gun without powder, so are 
words in prayer without fervency of spirit. The hottest springs send 
forth their waters by ebullitions.* 

I have read of one who, being sensible of his own dulness and cold- 
ness in prayer, chid himself thus : ' What ! dost thou think that Jonah 
prayed thus when he was in the belly of hell? or Daniel, when he was 

' hi^yavfiivn. Faith is an omnipotent grace. It works wonders in heaven, in the heart, 
and in the earth. Such working prayer as sets all the faculties of the soul, and all the 
graces in the soul, at work, always speeds ; it fails not of winning the day, of carrying 
the crown. 

* The Jews have a saying, that since the destruction of Jerusalem, the door of prayers 
hath been shut ; but the door of tears was never shut, saith one. 

' Rpm. XV. 80, rvyayuviffarSai. The word signifies to strive to the shedding of blood, 
Luke xviii. 6, wcr<w<r/a{»i, buffet me, or beat me down with her blows, as wrestlers beat down 
their adversaries with their fists or clubs. 

* Oratio bretfis penetrat caelum, saith one. 



494 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [KOM. VIII. 32-34. 

in the lions' den 1 or the thief, when he was upon the cross ? and T 
may add, or the three children, when they were in the fiery furnace ? or 
the apostles, when they were in bonds and prisons. Oh ! that Chris- 
tians would chide themselves out of their cold prayers, and chide them- 
selves into a better and a warmer frame of spirit when they make their 
supplications before the Lord. An importunate soul in prayer is like 
the poor beggar that prays and knocks, that prays and waits, that 
prays and works, that knocks and knits, that begs and patches, and 
will not stir from the door till he hath an alms.' And verily he that is 
good at this will not be long a beggar in grace. God will make his 
heart and his cup to overflow. 

FouHhly, To pray in a right manner, is, to pray assiduously, con- 
stantly, as well as fervently. Luke xviii. 1, ' And he spake a parable 
unto them, to this end, that men ought always to pray, and not to faint ;' 
or as it is in the Greek, not to ' shrink back,' as sluggards in work or 
cowards in war.'* Now men pray always, first, when their hearts are 
always prepared to pray, or in a praying frame ; secondly, when they do 
not omit the duty, when it is to be performed, or when they take hold 
on every opportunity, to pour out their souls before the Lord, 1 Thes. 
V. 17, ' Pray without ceasing.' A man must always pray habitually, 
though not actually ; he must have his heart in a praying disposition 
in all estates and conditions, in prosperity and adversity, in health and 
sickness, in strength and weakness, in wealth and wants, in life and 
death.^ So in Eph. vi. 18, * Praying always with all prayer and suppli- 
cation in the spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance, and 
supplication for all saints. Our daily weaknesses, our daily wants, our 
daily fears, our daily dangers, our daily temptations, &c., bespeak our 
daily prayers. Rom. xii. 12, * Rejoicing in hope, patient in tribulations, 
continuing instant in prayer,' "ir^oaxa^Ti^ovvTii, It is a metaphor taken 
from dogs that hunt, that will not give over the game till they have got 
it A dog, of all creatures, is best able to endure hunger ; he will run 
from place to place, and never leave it till he hath got his prey. So a 
child of God in his hunting after God, Christ, grace, peace, mercy, glory, 
never gives over till he hath found his heavenly prey. Cant. iii. 4, ' At 
length I found him whom my soul loved ; I held him, and would not 
let him go.' The spouse never left hunting after her beloved, till she 
had found him.* Gracious souls reckon that they have nothing till they 
speed in the things they sue for ; they pray as if they had never prayed, 
and think that they have done nothing till they have done the deed.* 
It is observed by some of Proteus, that he was wont to give certain 
oracles ; but it was hard to make him speak and deliver them, but he 

* The Jews write upon the walls of their synagogues this sentence, that prayer, with- 
out the intention of the mind, is but as a body without a soul. You know how to apply 
it Jerome speaks of certain holy women in his time, that they seemed in their fervent 
affections to join with the holy company of heaven. 

* ix>ca»i7¥, i. e. Non defatigari. — Cornelius a Lapide. To pray always is u *a,iri xai^ai, 
to pray in every opportunity. 

' Semper oral qui beni semper agit. To pray always, is to pray omni tempore. Prayer, 
saith one, is Flagelluin diahoLi. 

* Augustine's usual wish was, that when Christ came, he might find him Aut precan- 
Um, aut prcedicantem, either praying or preaching. 

* As a hungry man eats as if he had never ate before. 



KOM. VIII. 32-34.] HEAVEN ON EARTH. 495 

would turn himself into several shapes and forms ; yet if they would 
hold out and press him hard without fear, into whatsoever form or 
shape he appeared, they were sure to have satisfactory oracles. So if 
we will continue constant in our wrestling with God for blessings, though 
God should appear unto us in the form or shape of a judge, an enemy, 
a stranger, &c., yet still to press him hard for mercy, verily mercy will 
come at the long run, and we shall say, that it is not in vain for men to 
hold on praying, though God for a time delays giving the particular 
favours they sue for. As that emperor said, Oportet imjyeratorem stan- 
tem mori, it behoves an emperor to die standing, so may I say, Oportet 
Christianum Tnori precantem, it behoves a Christian to die praying.^ 

Fifthly, To pray in a right manner, is to pray sincerely : Ps. xvii. 1, 
' Give ear unto my prayer, that goeth not out of feigned lips' ; or, as 
it is in the Hebrew, without * lips of deceit.'* Ps. cxlv. 18, ' The Lord 
is nigh unto all them that call upon him: to all that call upon him in 
truth.' Your heart and tongue must go together ; word and work, lip 
and life, prayer and practice must 'echo one to another, or all will be 
lost, heaven lost, and the soul lost for ever. It is not the greatness of 
the voice, nor the multitude of words, nor the sweetness of the tone, nor 
studied notions, nor eloquent expressions, that takes Jehovah, but truth 
in the inward parts, Ps. li. 6. When the Athenians would know of the 
oracle, the cause of their often unprosperous successes in battle against 
the Lacedaemonians, seeing they offered the choicest things they could 
get, in sacrifice to the gods, which their enemies did not, the oracle gave 
them this answer. That the gods were better pleased with their inward 
supplication without ambition, than with all their outward pomp in 
costly sacrifices. Ah, souls ! the reason why you are so unsuccessful 
in your religious duties and services is, because you are no more sincere 
and upright in them. Were there more singleness and sincerity of 
heart in your duties, you would have surer and sweeter returns from 
heaven.^ 

One reports of Joachim,* the father of the Virgin Mary, that he 
would often say, Cibus et potus mihi erit oratio, prayer is my meat 
and drink. Ah, Christians ! the more sincere you are, the more will 
prayer be your meat and drink ; and the more prayer is a delight and 
pleasure to you, the more will you be the pleasure and delight of God, 
who delights in those that delight in his service, and that count his 
work better than wages. It was more troublesome to Severus the 
emperor, to be asked nothing, than to give much ; when any of his 
courtiers had not made bold with him, he would call him and say. 
Quid est cur nihil petis ? &c., what meanest thou to ask me nothing ? 
8o says Christ to upright souls ; ' Hitherto have ye asked nothing ; ask, 
and ye shall receive, that your joy may be full,' John xvi 24. Christ 
hath a full purse, a noble heart, and a liberal hand. 

^ Hypocrites are inconstant in their prayers ; they are only at it by fits and starts, 
they are only constant in inconstancy. 

* HDID *nBK' K^2. The very heathen gods would be served in white, the very 
emblem of purity. 

3 A gentlewoman, being in her parlour in meditation and prayer, cried out, Oh that 
r might ever enjoy this sweet communion with God, and never change it! The first 
part of her wish is precious ; in the latter part of the wish, like Peter, she said she knew 
not what * Protei. Jac. i., &c. — G. 



496 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

[4.] The fourth requisite in prayer is this, viz., your prayer must be 
ad bonum, to a good end; it must be to the glory of God, and to the 
internal and eternal advantage of your own and others' souls.' The 
chiefest end, the white, the mark, at which the soul must aim in prayer, 
is God's glory : ' Whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of God,' 1 Cor. 
X. 31. When God crowns us, he doth but crown his own gifts in us ; 
and when we give God the glory of all we do, we do but give him the 
glory that is due unto his name ; for he works all our works in us and 
for us. God measures all men's actions by their ends : if their end be 
good, all is good ; if the end be naught, all is naught. The end deter- 
mineth the action. All actions of worship are good or bad, as the mark 
is at which the soul aims. He that makes God the object of prayer, 
but not the end of prayer, doth but lose his prayer, and take pains to 
undo himself. God will be all in all, or he will be nothing at all ; he 
will be Alexander or Nemo ; he will be both the object and the end of 
prayer, or else he will abhor your prayer. Those prayers never reach 
his ear, they are never lodged in his bosom, that are not directed to his 
glory. The end must always be as noble as the means, or else a Chris- 
tian acts below himself, yea, below his very reason. 

Ah, Christians ! it is not a flood of words, nor high strains of wit, nor 
vehemency of affections in prayer, but holy and gracious ends, that will 
render prayer acceptable and honourable to God, comfortable and pro- 
fitable to yourselves and others ; yea, the directing of one prayer to 
divine glory doth more torture and torment Satan than all the prayers 
in the world that are directed to ends below divine glory. It is not 
simply prayer, but the soul's aiming at divine glory in prayer, that adds 
to Christ's crown and Satan's hell.^ 

And thus I have shewed you all the requisites of prayer, even of such 
prayer as accompanies salvation. I shall now proceed to some other 
particulars for the further and fuller opening of this truth. 

(2.) The second property. Secondly, That prayer that accompanies 
salvation betters the whole man. By it faith is increased, hope strength - 
ened, the spirit exhilarated, the heart pacified, the conscience purified, 
temptations vanquished, corruptions weakened, the affections inflamed, 
the will more renewed, and the whole man more advantaged. Prayer 
is a spiritual chair, wherein the soul sitteth down at the feet of the Lord, 
to receive the influences of his grace. Prayer is the regal gate by which, 
the Lord entereth into the heart, comforting, quieting, strengthening,, 
quickening, and raising of it. The Scripture affords us a cloud of wit- 
nesses to prove this truth, but I appeal to praying saints. Ah, tell me, 
tell me, praying souls, have not you, do not you find it so ? I know 
you have and do, and that is it that makes prayer a pleasure, a paradise 
unto you.' 

^ Maximilian's motto was, Tene tnensuram, et respiee finem, keep thyself within com- 
pass, and have always an eye to the end of thy life and actions. 

* Lord, saith Austin, whatever thou hast given, take all away ; only give me thyself, 
Isa. 1. 11 ; Zech. vii. 6 ; Amos v. 22 ; Hosea vii. 14. Many heathens, as Aristides, Cato, 
Themistocles, with divers others, did unfeignedly many great services for the common 
good, and not for their own gain ; but yet they could not hit the mark, the white, divin'i 
glory ; and so their most glorious actions were but glorious sins, and would never turn 
to their souls' accounts. 

» It was a sweet saying of one, * Lord ! I never come to thee but by thee ; I never 
go from thee without thee.' [Ambrose, Epist. 116. — G.] 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on eaeth. 497 

(3.) The third p^^opeHi/. Thirdly, You may judge what prayer that 
is that accompanies salvation by corhsidering the difference that is be- 
twixt the 'prayers of the godly and the wicked. Now the difference 
between the prayers of the one and the other I shall shew you in the 
following particulars. 

The first difference. First, Gracious souls do trade and deal vjith 
God in prayer, only upon the account and credit of Christ.'^ They 
beg mercy to pardon them, and grace to purge them, and balm to heal 
them,- and divine favour to comfort them, and power to support them, 
and wisdom to counsel them, and goodness to satisfy them, but all upon 
the account of Christ's blood, of Christ's righteousness, of Christ's satis- 
faction, and of Christ's intercession at the right hand of the Father, 
Rev. iv. 10, 1 1. They seek the Father in the Son, they present their 
suits always in Christ's name, for so is the will of Christ : John xiv. 13, 
14, ' And whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, that will I do, that the 
Father may be glorified in the Son. If ye shall ask anything in my 
name, I will do it.' John xv. 16, ' Whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father 
in my name, he will give it you.' Chap. xvi. 23, ' Verily I say unto 
you, whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, he will give it 
you.' oTt offa av aiTrisriTi. The Greek is pregnant, and may be read not 
only ' Whatsoever,' but also ' How many things soever ye shall ask or 
beg of the Father in my name, he will give them to you.' There is no 
admission into heaven, except we bring Christ in our arms : Eph. ii. J 8, 
' For through him we both have access by one Spirit unto the Father.' 
The Greek word signifies ' a leading by the hand.' It is an allusion to 
the custom of princes, to whom there is no passage, unless we be brought 
in by one of the favourites.^ 

Plutarch reports, ' That it was wont to be the way of some of the 
heathens, the Molossians, when they would seek the favour of their 
prince, they took up the king's son in their arms, and so went and 
kneeled before the king.' 

Ah, Christians ! Christ is near and dear unto the Father ; the Father 
hath determined to give out all his loves and favours through his Son ; 
if you bring Christ in the ai-ms of your faith, you gain the Father's 
heart, and in gaining his heart you gain all. The father's mercies melt, 
his bowels roll, his heart turns, his Compassions are kindled upon the 
sight of his Son's merits and mediation. As Joseph said to his brethren, 
' Ye shall not see my face unless you bring your brother Benjamin,' 
so says God, you shall not see my face unless you bring the Lord Jesus 
with you.* 

Now gracious souls, in all their prayers, they present Jesus Christ 
before the 'Father, and upon his account they desire those things that 
make for their external, internal, and eternal good. Ah ! but vain men 

* It is a notable saying Luther hath upon the 130th Psalm : Often and willingly, saith 
he, de I inculcate this, that you should shut your eyes and your ears, and say, You know 
no God out of Christ, none but he that was in the lap of Mary, and sucked her breasts. 
He means none out of him. 

* r^iirayuyriy. As no access, 80 no acceptance without Christ, Eph. i. 6, wherein he 
hath made us accepted in the beloved. ^ Plutarch : Pyrrh., i. 6, &c. — G. 

* Af Joseph.said, ' See not my face, except you bring Benjamin with you,' so says God, 
See not my face, except you bring Jesus with you, Gen. xlii. 20-34 ; and as David said, 
to Abner, 2 Sam. iii. 13. 

VOL. II. I i 



498 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

treat and trade with God in prayer upon the account of their own 
worth, righteousness, worthiness, and services : Isa. Iviii. 2, 3, * Yet they 
seek me daily, and delight to know my ways, as a nation that did right- 
eousness, and forsook not the ordinance of their God. They ask of me 
the ordinances of justice, they take delight in approaching to me : 
Wherefore have we fasted, say they, and thou seest not ? Wherefore 
have we afflicted our souls, and thou takest no knowledge X Here you 
see they stand upon their own practices and services, and expostulate 
the case with God in an angry manner, because God did not answer 
their hypocritical performances. So the proud pharisee stands in prayer 
upon his own worthiness and righteousness: Luke xviii. 11, 12, 'The 
pharisee stood and prayed thus" with himself: God, I thank thee, that I 
am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this 
publican. I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess.'^ 
So did those hypocrites in Mat. vi. 23 stand very much upon their 
outward services and performances, though they were but shining sins, 
but filthy rags. 

The second differeTice. Secondly, Souls truly gracious pray more 
to get off their sins than they do to get off their chains. Though bonds 
did attend Paul in every place. Acts xx. 23, as himself speaks, yet he 
never cries out, O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from 
my bonds, but, ' O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from 
my sins, from this body of death ?' Rom. vii. 23. David cries not 
Perii, but Peccavi; not I am undone, but I have done foolishly, Ps. li. 4. 
But wicked men strive in prayer more to get off their chains than to 
get oft' their sins; more to be delivered from enemies without than lusts 
within ; more to get out of the furnace than to be delivered from their 
spiritual bondage, as the scriptures in the margin do evidence.* 

The third difference. Thirdly, The stream and cream of a gracious 
man's spirit runs most out in prayer after spiritual and heavenly 
things, as is abundantly evident by those prayers of the saints that 
are upon record throughout the Scripture, Ps. iv. 6, 7, and xxvii. 4 ; 
but the stream and cream of vain men's spirits in prayer nms most out 
after poor, low, carnal things, as you may see in comparing the following 
scriptures together, Hosea vii. 14, Zech. vii. 5-7, James iv. 3, &c. 

The fourth difference. Fourthly, A gracious soul looks and lives 
nnore upon God in prayer than upon his prayer. He knows, though 
prayer be his chariot, yet Christ is his food. Prayer may be a staff to 
support him, but Christ is that manna that must nourish him, and upon 
him he looks, and lives : Ps. v. 3, ' In the morning will I direct my prayer 
unto thee ' (or marshal and set in order my prayer, as it is in the He- 
brew), ' and will look up '• (or ' look out,' as it is in the Hebrew) ' as a 
watchman looks out to discover the approaches of an enemy.'' But 
vain men, they live and look more upon their prayers than they do upon 
God ; nay, usually they never observe what returns they have from 
heaven. They are like those that shoot arrows, but do not mind where 
they fall. Wicked men think it is religion enough for them to pray ; 
and to look after their prayers, to see how their prayers speed, is no 

' This pharisee was like the Egyptian temple, painted without, and spotted within ; 
varnish without, and vermin within. , 

2 Pa. Ixxviii. 84 ; Zech. vii. 5-7 ; Isa. xxvi. 16, 17. * nSVNI 17 "pVH, in PihU. 



I 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on eaeth. 499 

article of their faith ; but a gracious soul is of a more noble spirit ; 
when he hath prayed he will stand upon his watch-tower, and observe 
what God will speak : Ps. Ixxxv. 8, ' I will hear what God the Lord will 
speak ;' for he will speak peace unto his people, and to his saints : but 
let them not return to folly;' or, as the Hebrew maybe read, 'And 
they shall not return to folly. Veal iashubu le chislah.' Wicked men 
would have God to be all ear to hear what they desire, when them- 
selves have never an ear to hear what he speaks. But deaf ears shall 
always be attended with dumb answers. Justice always makes mercy 
dumb, when sin hath made the sinner deaf. 

The fifth difference. Fifthly, No discouragements can take gracious 
souls off from prayer, but tJie least discouragments will take offcarTial 
heaHs from piuyer, as you may see in the following scriptures com- 
pared together : Ps. xl. 1, 2, and xliv. 10-23 ; Mat. xv. 21-29 ; MaL 
iii. 14 ; Isa. Iviii. 1-3 ; Amos viii. 3-5, &c.^ 

When one of the ancient martyrs was terrified with the threatenings 
of his persecutors, he replied, ' There is nothing,' saith he, ' of things 
visible, nothing of things invisible that I fear ; I will stand to my pro- 
fession of the name of Christ, and contend earnestly for the faith once 
delivered to the saints, come on it what will.' It is neither the hope of 
life, nor the fear of death, that can take a real Christian off from prayer. 
He is rather raised than dejected, he is rather quickened than dis- 
couraged by delays or denials ; .he will hold up and hold on in a way 
and course of prayer, though men should rage and lions roar, and the 
furnace be heat seven times hotter, &c. But it is not so with carnal 
hearts. Job xxvii. 9, 10. 

The sixth difference. Sixthly, When a gracious man prays, he hath 
his heaH in his prayer ; ivhen he falls upon the work, he makes heart- 
work of it? So David, Ps. xlil 4, ' When I remember these things, I 
pour out my heart.' So Hannah, 1 Sam. i. 15, 'I am a woman of a 
sorrowful spirit,' said she, ' and have poured out my soul before the 
Lord.' So the Israelites in 1 Sam. vii. 6, 'pour out their souls like 
water before the Lord.' So the church in Isa. xxvi. 8, 9, * The desire of 
our soul is to thy name, and to the remembrance of thee. With my 
soul have I desired thee in the night ; yea, with my spirit within me 
will I seek thee early.' Gracious souls know that no prayer is acknow- 
ledged, accepted, and rewarded by God, but that wherein the heart is 
sincerely and wholly.* It is not a piece, it is not a comer of the heart, 
that will satisfy the maker of the heart. The true mother would not 
have the child divided. As God loves a broken and a contrite heart, 
so he loathes a divided heart. God neither loves halting nor halving, 
he will be served truly and totally. The royal law is, * Thou shalt love 
and serve the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul,' 
Deut. X. 12. Among the heathens, when the beasts were cut up for 

^ nyD CS, I will listen, and lay my obedient ear to what the Lord shall speak. 

2 Aristotle, though a heathen, coald say, that in some cases a man had better lose his 
life than be cowardly. — Ethic, iii. cap. i. 

* In his course his heart is in his prayer ; he finds by experience that the heart is the 
jyrimum mobile, the great wheel that moves all other wheels. It is the chief monarch in 
the isle of man. 

< The voice of God is Da mihi cor. The heart, as a prince, gives laws to all other 
members. The heart is Christ's bed of spices ; it is his presence-chamber ; it is his royal 
throne ; it is one of those four keys that God keeps under his own girdle. 



/)00 HEAVEN ON EAKTH. [ROM. VIII. 82-34 

sacrifice, the first thing the priest looked upon was the heart, and if the 
heart was naught the sacrifice was rejected. Verily, God rejects all 
those sacrifices wherein the heart is not. 

Now wicked men are heartless in all their services, in all their prayers, 
as you may see in comparing the following scriptures together ; I shall 
not transcribe the words, because I must cut short the work : Isa. xxix. 
13 ; Mat. xv. 7-9 ; Ezek. xxxiii. 30-32 ; Zech. vii. 4-6 ; 2 Chron. xxv. 
1, 2. As the body without the soul is dead, so prayer, without the heart 
be in it, is but dead prayer in the eye and account of God.^ Prayer is 
only lovely and weighty, as the heart is in it, and no otherwise. It is 
not the lifting up of the voice, nor the wringing of the hands, nor the 
beating of the breasts, but the stirrings of the heart, that God looks at 
in prayer, God hears no more than the heart speaks ; if the heart be 
dumb, God wiU certainly be deaf. No prayer takes with God but that 
which is the travail of the heart. 

The seventh difference. Seventhly, Gracious souls usually come off 
from 'prayer, with hearts more disengaged from sin, and more vehe- 
mently set against it.^ The precious communion that they have with 
God in prayer, the sweet breathings of God into their hearts, whilst they 
are a-breathing out their requests in his ears, and the secret assistance, 
stirrings, and movings of the Spirit upon their souls in prayer, arm them 
more against sin, and makes them stand upon the highest terms of 
defiance with sin. How shall I do this or that wickedness against God ? 
says the praying soul. Oh I cannot, I will not do anything unworthy of 
him that hath caused his glory to pass before me in prayer. 

Ah ! but wicked men come off from prayer with hearts more encouraged 
to sin, and more resolved to walk in ways of sin : Prov. vii. 14-24, ' I 
have peace-offerings with me,' saith the harlot ; ' this day have I paid 
my vows : therefore came I forth to meet thee, diligently to seek thy 
face, and I have found thee. Come, let us take our fill of love until the 
morning ; let us solace ourselves with loves.'^ So in Jer. vii, 9, 10, 
' Will ye steal, murder, and commit adultery, and swear falsely, and 
bum incense unto Baal, and walk after other gods whom ye know not ; 
and come and stand before me in this house, which is called by my name, 
and say. We are delivered to do all these abominations ?' Wicked men 
are like Lewis, king of France, that would swear and then kiss the 
cross, and then swear more bitterly and then kiss the cross. So they 
sin and rpray, and pray and sin; and the more they pray, the more 
easily, resolutely, impudently do they sin.* They make use of prayer 
to charm their consciences, that so they may sin with more pleasure and 
less regret. Ah ! what pains do such sinners take to go to hell, and to 
arm their consciences against themselves in that day, wherein they shall 
say, There is no help, there is no hope ! 

Tfie eighth difference. Eighthly and lastly. Gracious souls do more 

^ Prayer without the heart is but an empty ring, a tinkling cymbal, 

* Dan. ix. 9, Neh. x., compared ; Rom. viii. 26, <rfvavT(Xa^/3a«ra/, helpeth together, 
or helps us as the nurse doth the little child. Prayer is the breath of the Spirit, &c. 

3 Dm nn3, be drunken with loves, which shews her unsatiable lusts. 

* Mr [Thomas] Shepherd, in his ' Sincere Convert,' speaks of such a monster : yea, 
this age is full of such monsters, that have no pity upon themselves. [Shepherd's 
'Works' have been collected in 3 vols, crown 8vo (1853), in. America. The 'Sincere 
Convert ' is still a favourite. — G.] 



Rom. VIII. S2-34.] heaven on eaeth. 501 

eye and observe how their own hearts are wrought upon in prayer, 
than how others' hearts are wrought upon} When they pray, they look 
with a curious eye upon their own spirits, they look with a narrow eye 
upon their own hearts, and observe how they are affected, melted, 
humbled, quickened, raised, spiritualized, and bettered by prayer. But 
vain men, as they pray to ' be seen of men,' so they eye most how others 
like their prayers, and are affected and taken with their prayers. 
They are most critical in observing what operations their prayers have 
upon others' hearts, but never mind, to any purpose, how they operate 
upon their own hearts ; a worse plague cannot befall them.^ 

And thus I have endeavoured to shew you what a wide difference 
there is betwixt the prayers of the godly and the ungodly ; and by this, 
as by the former particulars laid down, you may see what prayer that 
is that accompanies salvation. 

Now, in the seventh place, I shall shew you what perseverance that 
is that accompanies salvation, and that I shall do in these following 
particulars. 

(1.) The first property. First, That perseverance that accompanies 
salvation, is Perseverance in a holy profession. Heb. iv. 14, * Seeing 
then that we have a great high priest, that is passed into the heavens, 
Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession by a strong hand,' 
or by a hand of holy violence [xmrOjfiiv'j. So in chap. x. 23, ' Let us 
hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering ' (or as it is in the 
Greek, 'without tilting, or tossing to one side or other'), 'for he is 
faithful that promised.'^ Therefore let no temptation, affliction, opposi- 
tion, or persecution, take us off from our holy profession, but let us hold 
our profession with a forcible hand, yea, with both hands, in the face 
of all difficulties, dangers, and deaths, as Cynaegirus, the Athenian 
captain, did the ship that was laden with the rich spoil of his country.* 

(2.) Tlie second property. Secondly, That perseverance that accom- 
panies salvation, is a perseverance in holy and spiritual principles. 
It is an abiding in love, John xv. 9, 10 ; and an abiding in faith and 
hope, 1 Cor. xiii. 13, &c. Perseverance is not a particular distinct grace 
of itself ; but such a virtue as crowns all virtue ; it is such a grace as 
casts a general glory and beauty upon every grace, it is a grace that 
leads every grace on to perfection.* 

To persevere in holy and heavenly principles, is to persevere in be- 
lieving, in repenting, in mourning, in hoping ; it is to persevere in love, 
in fear, in humility, in patience, in self-denial, &c. Now it is this per- 
severance in holy and gracious principles that accompanies salvation, 
that leads to salvation.* No grace, no, not the most sparkling and 
shining grace, can bring a man to heaven of itself, without persever- 
ance ; not faith, which is the champion of grace, if it faint and fail ; 
not love, which is the nurse of gi'ace, if it decline and wax cold ; not 

' Ps. XXXV. 13, my prayer returned into my own bosom, Isa. xxvi. 8, 9. 

* Mat. vi. 23. The virtue of some lieth in the spectator's eyes. 

3 xitTix;t"f^if signifies a forcible holding, a holding with both hands, 'AxXivS. 

* Justin, ii. 9, &c. — G. 

6 So Col. i. 23 ; 1 Tim. iv. 15 ; Heb. xiii. 1, and xi. 13. These all died in faith, or as 
it is hi the Greek, they all died according to faith, that is, persevering in faith. 

* It is a rule in the civil law, Ifec videtur actum si quid supersit quodagatur, that nothing 
seems to be done if there remain aught to be done. Let a man do never so much, if he 
do not persevere, he will be found to have done nothing. 



502 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-84. 

humility, which is the adorner and beautifier of grace, if it continue 
not to the end ; not obedience, not repentance, not patience, nor no 
other grace, except they have their perfect work. It is perseverance 
in grace that crowns every grace, and every gracious soul with a crown 
of glory at last. Rev. ii. 10, * Be thou faithful to the death, and I will 
give thee a crown of life.' Such as only believe for a time, and repent 
for a time, and love for a time, and rejoice for a time, and hope for a 
time, as all hypocrites only do &c., but do not persevere and hold out, 
will be doubly miserable in the day of vengeance. Perseverance is the 
accomplishment of every grace; without it, he that fights cannot hope 
to overcome; and he that for the present doth overcome, cannot look 
for the crown, unless he still perseveres and goes on conquering and to 
conquer, till he finds all his enemies slain before him. 

(3.) The third property. Thirdly, That perseverance that accom- 
panies salvation is an ohiding or continuing in the word or doctrine 
of Christ} John xv. 7, ' If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, 
ye shall ask what you will, and it shall be done unto you.' 1 John 
ii. 14, 'I have written unto you, young men, because ye are strong, and 
the word of God abideth in you.' Ver. 24, * Let that therefore abide in 
you which you have heard from the beginning. If that which ye have 
heard from the beginning shall remain in you, ye also shall continue in 
the Son, and in the Father.' 2 John 9, ' Whosoever transgresseth, and 
abideth not in the doctrine of Christ, hath not God : he that abideth 
in the doctrine of Christ, he hath both the Father and the Son.' None 
shall receive the end of their faith, the salvation of their souls, but 
those that hold fast the doctrine of faith, soundly, sincerely, and en- 
tirely to the end : John viii. 31, ' If ye continue in my word, then are 
ye my disciples indeed.' It is the end that crowns the action, as the 
evening crowns the day, as the last act commends the whole scene. It 
is not enough to begin well except we end well ; the beginning of 
Christians is not so considerable as the end.* Manasseh and Paul began 
ill, but ended well; Judas and Demas began well, but ended ill.'^ It is 
not the knowledge of the doctrine of Christ, nor the commending of the 
word of Christ, but the abiding in Christ's word, the continuing in 
Christ's doctrine, that accompanies life and glory, and that will render 
a man happy at last. Such that, with Hymeneus and Alexander, put 
away, or make shipwreck of the doctrine of faith, of the word of faith, 
shall, by the Lord or his people, or by both, be delivered unto Satan, 
that they may learn not to blaspheme, 1 Tim. i. 19, 20, 1 Cor. v. 5. 
Usually the end of such is worse than the beginning. Double damna- 
tion attends those that begin in the spirit and end in the flesh, 2 Peter 
ii. 20-22; 2 Tim. iiL 13. 

(4.) The fouHh property. Fourthly, and lastly. That perseverance 
that accompanies salvation is a perseverance in holy and gracious 
actions and motions; it is a continuing in pious duties and religious 
services, Philip, iii. 10-14 ; Isa. xl. 31. The life of a Christian con- 

^ You must persevere, and hold fast the faith of tlie gospel, without wavering in it or 
starting from it. You must be as the centre, or as mount Zion, stedfast and unmoveable. 

■•* The tabernacle was covered over with red — and the purple-feathers* tell us that 
they take that habit for the same intent — to note, that we must defend the truth, and 
abide by the truth, even to eifusion of blood. * I suppose, the Romish priests. — Ed. 

3 Nero's first five years were famous, but afterwards who more cruel ? 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on eaeth. 503 

sists in motion, not in session.^ A Christian's emblem should be an 
house moving towards heaven ; he must never stand still, he must 
always be a-going on from faith to faith, and from strength to strength." 
When saints have done their Avork in this life, they shall sit upon 
thrones in a better life. Perseverance is a going on, a holding out in 
ways of piety and sanctity f Acts i. 14, • These all continued with one 
accord in prayer and supplication. Chap. ii. 42, ' And they continued 
stedfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship, and in breaking of 
bread, and in prayer.' Ver. 46, ' And they continued daily with one 
accord in the temple, and breaking bread from house to house, did eat 
their meat with gladness and singleness of heart.' 1 Tim. v. 5, ' Now 
she that is a widow indeed, and desolate, trusteth in God, and continu- 
eth in supplications and prayers night and day.' Rom. xii. 12, ' Con- 
tinuing instant in prayer.' Christians must work hard in a wilderness 
before they sit down in paradise. They must make a constant progress 
in holiness before they enter into happiness. It is the excellency of 
perseverance, that it keeps a Christian still in motion God-wards, 
heaven-wards, holiness-wards. It is a grace that quickens a man to 
motion, to action ; it keeps a man still going, still doing. And motion 
is the excellency of the creature ; and the more excellent any creature 
is, the more excellent is that creature in its motions, as you may see 
in the motions of the celestial bodies, the sun, moon, and stars. Per- 
severance is a perpetual motion in ways of grace and holiness, Ps. 
xliv. 16-20.* Perseverance will make a man hold up and hold on in the 
work and ways of the Lord, in the face of all impediments, discourage- 
ments, temptations^ tribulations, and pei-secutions. As the moon holds 
on her motion though the dogs bark, so perseverance will make a Chris- 
tian hold on in his holy and heavenly motions though vain men bark 
and bite, &c. 

And thus I have shewed you what perseverance that is that accom- 
panies salvation. 

Now in the eighth place I shall shew very briefly, 

(1.) That hope doth accompany salvation. 

(2.) What that hope is that doth accompany salvation.* 

1. 2 hat hope doth accompany .salvation, these scriptures speak it 
out: Rom. viii. 24, 'For we are saved by hope;' Gal. v. 5, 'For we 
though the Spirit wait for the hope of righteousness by faith ;' Eph. i. 
1 8, ' The eyes of your understanding being enlightened ; that ye may 
know what is the hope of his calling, and what the riches of the glory 
of his inheritance in the saints ;' 1 Thes. v. 8, ' But let us, who are of 
the day, be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and for 
an helmet the hope of salvation ;' Titus, iii. 7, 'That, being justified 

' ' Sitting.'— G. 2 2fon progredi est regredi, not to go forwards is to go backwards. 

^ Acts xiii. 43, and xiv. 22. -r^offna^ri^oZvTis of Kaort^iiv, signifying a continuance in 
prayer and supplication, with an invincible and strong constancy. 

* There was a temple of Concord among the heathens ; and shall it not be found 
among Christians, that are the temple of the Holy Ghost ? 

5 The eighth and last thing that accompanies salvation is hope. I shall gather up 
whAt I have to say concerning hope into as narrow a compass as I can, being unwilling 
to tire the reader's patience, and my own spirits. The philosophers excluded hope out 
of their catalogues of virtues, numbering it among the perturbations. But God by his 
word hath taught us better. 



504 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [RoM. VIII. 32-34 

by his grace, we should be made heirs according to the hope of eternal 
life ;' Chap. i. 2 'In hope of eternal life, which God, that cannot lie, 
promised before the world began.' 

By all these scriptures it doth fully appear, that hope doth accom- 
pany salvation, it doth border upon eternal life. 

2. The second thing that I am to shew you is, what hope that ie that 
doth acco^npany salvation, that comprehends salvation ; and that I 
ahall do with as much brevity and perspicuity as I can, in the following 
particulars : 

First, That hope that accompanies salvation isu grace of God whereby 
we exi^ect good to come, waiting patiently till it corned 

(1.) I call it a grace of God, because he is the donor of it ; and 
therefore he is called the God of hope : Rom. xv. 13, ' Now the God of 
hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing.' Now God is called 
the God of hope, because he is objective, the only object of our hope, and 
he is effective, the only author and worker of hope in the soul. Hope 
is no natural affection in men. Men are not bom with hope in their 
hearts, as they are born with tongues in their mouths. Hope is nobly 
descended, it is from above, it is a heavenly babe that is formed in 
the soul of man by the power of the Holy Ghost. And as hope is no 
natural affection, so hope is no moral virtue, which men may attain by 
their frequent actions ; but hope is the theological virtue that none can 
give but God. 

(2.) I say it is a grace of God, whereby we expect good to come ; I 
say good, not evil, for evil is rather feared than hoped for by any. 

The object of this hope hath four conditions : 

1. It must be bonuTn, good. 

2. Futurum, future. 

3. Possibile, possible. 

4. Arduum, hard or difficult to obtain. 

(3.) I say hope is a grace of God, whereby we expect good to ^ome^ 
patiently waiting till it come. Hope makes the soul quiet and patient 
till it comes to possess the good desired and hoped for : Rom. viii. 25, 
' But if we hope for that we see not, then do we with patience wait for 
it.' The Hebrew word kavah, that is often translated hope, signifies a 
very vehement intention, both of body and mind, a stretching forth of 
the spirit or mind, in waiting for a desired good. 

2. Secondly, That hope that accompanies salvation is always conversant 
about holy and heavenly objects, as about God and Christ -.^ 1 Tim. i. 
1, ' Paul an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the commandment of God our 
Saviour, and Lord Jesus Christ, which is our hope.' In these words, 
Christ is set forth as the chief object of our hope, because by his merits 
and mercy, we hope to obtain the remission of our sins, and the eternal 

■ Spes est expectatio eorum quce veri a Deo promissa fides credidit. — Calvin. 1 Tim. vi. 
17. This very title, 'the God of hope,' may serve as a sovereign antidote against the 
blackest and horridest temptations ; for why should any despair of his mercy, who hath 
proclaimed, himself to be the God of hope ? Spes est virtus qua. inclinamur ad expectationem 
«onim quce Deut nobis promisit. — Perkins. 

* 2 Cor. iv. 18. Hope fares well ; it keeps a prince's table; it lives upon honey and 
milk, oil and wine ; it lives upon the sweatmeats, the delicates of heaven, as God, Christ, 
and glory, Ps. xxxi. 24, xxxiii. 22, xxxviii. 16, xlii. 6, xliii. 5, xxxix. 7, Ixxi. 5, and 
XV. 6. 



EOM. VIII 32-34.] HEAVEN ON EARTH. 505 

salvation of our souls. Sometimes hope is exercised about the righteous- 
ness of Christ : Gal. v. 5, ' For we through the Spirit wait for the hope 
of righteousness by faith.' Sometimes hope is exercised about God the 
Father : 1 Peter i. 21, * Who by him do believe in God, that raised 
him up from the dead, and gave him glory ; that your faith and hope 
might be in God \' Jer. xiv. 8, ' Oh the hope of Israel, the Saviour 
thereof in the time of trouble;' Chap. xvii. 13, '0 Lord, the hope of 
Israel, all that forsake thee shall be ashamed ;' ver.l7, 'Thou art my 
hope in the day of evil.' Sometimes hope is exercised and busied about 
the word and promises : Ps. cxix. 49, ' Remember the word unto thy 
servant, upon which thou hast caused me to hope ;' ver. 81, ' My soul 
fainteth for thy salvation ; but I hope in thy word ;' ver. 114, 'Thou 
art my hiding-place, and my shield : I hope in thy word ;' Ps. cxxx. 5, 
' I wait for the Lord, my soul doth wait, and in his word do I hope ;' 
Ps. cxix. 74, ' They that fear thee will be glad when they see me ; be- 
cause I have hoped in thy word ;' ver. 147, ' I prevented the dawning 
of the morning, and cried : I hoped in thy word.' Hope in the pro- 
mise will keep the head from aching, and the heart from breaking ; it 
will keep both head and heart from sinking and drowning. Hope exer- 
cised upon the promise, brings heaven down to the heart.^ The pro- 
mises are the ladder by which hope gets up to heaven. Hope in the 
promise will not only keep life and soul together, but will also keep the 
soul and glory together; hope in the promise will support distressed 
souls ; hope in the promise will settle perplexed souls ; hope in the 
promise will comfort dejected souls ; hope in the promise will reduce 
wandering souls ; hope in the promise will confirm staggering souls ; 
hope in the promise will save undone souls.** The promise is the same 
to hope, that hope is to the soul ; the promise is the anchor of hope, 
as hope is the anchor of the soul. Look, what the breasts are to the 
child, and oil is to the lamp, that are the promises to hope, Rom. viii. 
24.^ Hope lives and thrives, as it feeds upon the promises, as it em- 
braces the promises. The promises are the sweetmeats of heaven, upon 
which hope lives. And every degree of hope brings a degree of joy 
into the soul, which makes it cry out. Heaven, heaven, Heb. xi. 13 ; Ps. 
xvi. 11 ; Tit. iii. 7. 

Again, hope is exercised about the glory and felicity, the happiness 
and blessedness that is at God's right hand. Titus ii. 13, 'Looking for 
that blessed hope, and the glorious appearing of the great God, and our 
Saviour Jesus Christ* Hope makes a man stretch out his neck and put 
forth his hand, and look as earnestly for the glorious appearing of Christ, 
as Sisera's mother did for the happy return of her son. The hoping 
soul is often a-sighing it out, Why are his chariot wheels so long 
a coming ? Col. i. 5, ' For the hope which is laid up for you in heaven.' 
Hope in this place is taken by a metonymy, for the things hoped for, 
viz., all that glory and felicity, that blessedness and happiness, that is 

' The Jewish Rabbins were wont to say, that upon every letter of the law there hangs 
mountains of profitable matter. Ah ! then, what abundance of comfort and sweetness 
may hope find, yea, does hope find in the promises. 

* Ps. klii. 5, andoxix. 49, 60, compared, Hosea vi. 1, 2. 

* The promises are hope's rich magazine. 

* ^^tKrhix'H'*^"- Looking for Christ's coming as earnestly as men look and long for 
the coming of some special friends, or as innkeepers do for special guests. 



506 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [KOM. VIII. 32-34. 

laid up for us in heaven.^ So in Heb. vi. 18, ' Who have fled for refuge 
to lay hold upon the hope set before us.' Hope here is put for the 
object of hope, viz., heaven and happiness. Hope lays such fast hold, 
as the Greek word here signifies, xgar^tra/, upon heaven and happiness, 
that none shall ever be able to take those precious things out of hope's 
hand. So hope is put for the glorious things hoped for, Eph. i. 18. And 
thus you see those precious and glorious objects, about which that hope 
that accompanies salvation is exercised. 

3. Thirdly, That hope that accompanies salvation, that comprehends 
salvation, that borders upon salvation, is grounded upon the firmest 
foundations, to wit, the 'promises of God, Pro v. x. 28, as hath been fully 
shewed before; and it is built upon the free grace of God, 1 Peter i. 13. 
It is built upon the infinite and glorious power of God, Rom. iv. 21. It 
is built upon the truth and faithfulness of God, 2 Tim. ii. 13. These 
precious and glorious foundations do bear up the hopes of the saints, as 
the three pillars bore up the hangings in the tabernacle. A believer's 
hope is founded upon the love of Christ, the blood of Christ, the right- 
eousness of Christ, the satisfaction of Christ, and the intercession of 
Christ, &c ; but the hopes of hypocrites and wicked men, are always 
built upon weak, slender, and sandy foundations. Sometimes they build 
their hopes upon their outward profession, upon their lamps, though 
they are empty lamps. Mat. xxv. 3 ; and sometimes upon their duties and 
services, as the Jews, scribes, and Pharisees did, Isa. Iviii, 1-3, Mat. vi. 
1, 2, &c ; and sometimes upon their outward privileges, crying out, ' The 
temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord;' and sometimes they build 
their hopes upon others' good opinion of them, and sometimes upon flashes 
of joy, and sometimes upon enlargements in duties, and sometimes upon 
the heat and vigour of their spirits in religious services, &c.^ And all 
these are but sandy foundations, and they that build their hope upon 
them will certainly fall, and great will be their fall. The hopes of the 
saints are built upon the surest and the strongest foundations. It was a 
good saying of one of the ancients, ' I consider,' said he, ' three things in 
which all my hope consisteth, to wit, 1, God's love in my adoption ; 2, the 
truth of his promise ; and 3, his power of performance. Therefore, let my 
foolish cogitation murmur as long as it list, saying. Who art thou ? or. 
What is that glory ? or. By what merits dost thou hope to attain it ? For 

1 can answer with sure confidence, I know on whom I have believed, 

2 Tim. i. 12. And I am certain, first, that in his love he adopted me ; 
secondly, that he is true in his promise ; and thirdly, that he is able to 
perform it. This is the threefold cord which is not easily broken.' ' 

4. Fourthly, That hope that accompanies salvation, that borders 
upon salvation, that comprehends salvation, that brings salvation, may 
be known from all false hopes, hy the excellent properties of it, and 
they are these that follow. 

[1.] The first property of that hope that accompanies salvation is 
this : it elevates and raises the heart to live above, where its treasure 
is.* This hope is from above, and it makes the heart to live above : it 

I So in Rom. viii. 24, 26 ; Col. i. 27 ; Rom. v. 2, &c. 

* Every false principle in religion is ' a reed of Egypt,' that will certainly deceive souls 
at last ; therefore take heed of leaning upon any of those reeds. 

^ Bernard, serm. '6, de fragm : Sept. Miser. 

* Mat. vi. 20, 21; Philip, iii. 20; Col. iii. 1. Mark, wicked men's hopes never raise 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on eaeth. 507 

is a spark of glory, and it leads the heart to live in glory. Divine hope 
carries a man to heaven, for life to quicken him, and for wisdom to 
direct him, and for power to uphold him, and for righteousness to justify 
him, and for holiness to sanctify him, and for mercy to forgive him, and 
for assurance to rejoice him, and for happiness to crown him. Divine 
hope takes in the pleasures of heaven beforehand ; it lives in the joyful 
expectation of them ; it fancies to itself, as I may say, the pleasures and 
joys of eternity ; and Uves in a sweet anticipation of what it possesseth 
by faith. Hope's richest treasures, and choicest friends, and chiefest 
delights, and sweetest contents, are in the country above ; and therefore 
hope loves best to live there most. 

[2.] The second property of that hope that accompanies salvation is 
this : it will strengthen the soul against all affllctixyns, oppositions, and 
temptations : 1 Thes. v. 8, * But let us, who are of the day, be sober, 
putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and for an helmet, the hope 
of salvation.' Look, as the helmet defends and secures the head, so doth 
hope defend and secure the heart. Hope is a helmet that keeps off all 
darts that Satan or the world casts at the soul. The hopes of heavenly 
riches made those worthies in Heb. xi. to despise the riches of this 
world.' The hopes they had of a heavenly country made them willing 
to leave their own country, and to live in the very land of promise as 
in a strange country. The hopes they had of possessing at last a house 
not made with hands, but eternal in the heavens, made them willingly 
and cheerfully to live in deserts, and in mountains, and in dens, and 
caves of the earth. The hopes they had of a glorious resurrection made 
them courageously to withstand the strongest temptations, &c., Rom. v. 
2-5. A saint's hope will outlive all fears and cares, all trials and 
troubles, all afflictions and temptations. Saints have much in hope, 
though little in hand ; they have much in reversion, though but little 
in possession ; they have much in promise, though but little in the 
purse. A saint can truly say, Spero Tneliora, my hopes are better 
than my possessions. Hope can see heaven through the thickest 
clouds; hope can see light through darkness, life through death, 
smiles through frowns, and glory through misery, Hope holds life and 
soul together ; it holds Christ and the soul together ; it holds the soul 
and the promises together ; it holds the soul and heaven together ; and 
so it makes a Christian to stand and triumph over all afflictions, oppo- 
sitions, and temptations." 

[3.] The third property of that hope that accompanies salvation is 
this : it makes the soul lively and active: Ps. cxix. 166, 'Lord, I have 
hoped for thy salvation, and done thy commandments.' Hope puts the 
soul upon doing, upon obeying : 1 Peter i. 3, ' Blessed be the God and 
Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which, according to his abundant (or 
much, ToXii) mercy, hath begotten us again unto a lively hope, by the 
resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead.' It is called a lively hope, 

them as high as heaven ; under all their hopes they are as very enemies, and as great 
strangers to God, Christ, and heaven, as ever. 

> Dan. iii. 87 ; Ps. iv. 6, 7 ; Heb. x. 34 ; 2 Cor. iv. 16-18. It was a wicked and hope- 
less cardinal that said, He would not leave his part in Paris for a part in paradise. 

' Some are verily persuaded that the want of this divine hope hath been the reason 
that many among the heathen hath laid violent hands upon themselves. • See Plutarch 
in Caesar's and Cato's lives. Heb. xi. 10, 14, 16, 25, 32, compared. 



508 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. YIII. 32-34. 

because it brings life and comfort into the soul ; and it is called a lively 
hope in opposition to the withering and dying hopes of hypocrites and 
wicked men ; and it is called a lively hope, because it flows from lively 
causes, viz. the Spirit of Christ, and the soul's union and communion 
with Christ ; but mainly it is called a lively hope because it puts the 
soul upon lively endeavours. Hope will make a man pray as for life, 
hear as for life, and mourn as for life, and obey as for life, and work and 
walk as for life. Hope will not say this work is too hard, and that 
work is too hot ; this work is too high, and the other work is too low.' 
Hope will make a man put his hand to every work. Hope makes a 
man more motion than notion ; it makes a man better at doing than 
at saying, &c. Hope gives life and strength to all religious duties and 
services : 1 Cor. ix. 10, ' He that plougheth should plough in hope ; and 
he that thrasheth in hope shall be partaker of his hope.' Hope will put 
a Christian upon ploughing and thrashing, that is, upon the hardest 
and difficultest services for God and his glory. If fleshly hopes of gaining 
the honours, riches, and favours of this world made Absalom, Ahithophel, 
Jehu, Haman, and many heathens, full of life and activity, full of motion 
and action, verily holy and heavenly hopes will make men much more 
lively and active, by how much heavenly hopes are more excellent than 
earthly. A man full of hope will be full of action. A lively hope and 
a diligent hand are inseparable companions. Hope will make a man 
do though he dies for doing.^ 

[4.] The fourth iJropeHy of that hope that accompanies salvation 
is this : It will rnake a Ttian sit, Noah-like, quiet and still in the midst 
of all storms and tempests, in the midst of all combustions, concus- 
sions, and mutations. When others are at their wits' end, then hope 
will house the soul, and lodge it far^ and quiet in the bosom of God : 
Job xi. 18, ' And thou shalt be secure, because there is hope : yea, thou 
shalt dig about thee, and thou shalt take thy rest in safety.' The 
Hebrew word that is here rendered rest, is from a root that signifies to 
rest and sleep quietly, as in one's bed.* Hope will bring the soul to bed 
safely and sweetly, in the darkest night, in the longest storm, and in 
the greatest tempest : Heb. vi. 19, ' Which hope we have as [an] anchor 
of the soul, both sure and stedfast, and which entereth into that within 
the veil.' Hope is that anchor of the soul, that keeps it quiet and 
still in all storms and tempests ; it keeps the soul from dashing 
upon the rocks, and from being swallowed up in the sands. Hope is an 
anchor that is fastened above, not below ; in heaven, not in earth ; 
within the veil, not without ; therefore the ship, the soul of a believer, 
must needs be safe and secure. That ship will never be split upon the 
rocks, whose anchor is in heaven. Hope enters within the veil, and 
takes fast anchor-hold on God himself ; and therefore blow high, blow 

I A man's duties and services usually are as his hopes are : if his hopes are weak and 
low, so will his services be ; but if his hopes are spiritual, noble, and high, so will his 
motions and actions be. Divine hope makes saints as far excel all other men in their 
actings, as the angels do excel them. Some say hope and fasting are the two wings of 
prayer. Fasting is but as the wing of a bird, but hope is as the wing of an angel, bear- 
ing our prayers to the throne of grace. 

* Fleshly hopes put the Romans upon doing very strange and wonderful exploits, as 
you may see in Plutarch, and other historians. ^ Spelled ' fare': qu. 'fair'? — G. 

* ^DKTl, from 23tJ*, to rest as men in their beds, or as the body rests in the grave. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 509 

low, rain or shine, the soul of a saint is safe. Divine hope settles the 
heart. He that cannot look for more than he hath, can never be settled 
nor satisfied. Our best and greatest estate lies in invisibles. Our per- 
fect and complete estate here lies not in re, but in spe ; it lies not in 
what we have in possession, but in what we have in expectation, in 
reversion.^ 

[5.] The fifth property of that hope that accompanies salvation is 
this : It vjill work the soul to a quiet and patient waiting upon God 
for mercy, though God should delay the giving in of mercy .^ Rom. 
viii 25, ' But if we hope for that we see not, then do we with patience 
wait for it.' Ps. cxxx. 5, 6, 'I wait for the Lord, my soul doth wait, 
and in his word do I hope. My soul waiteth for the Lord more than 
they that watch for the morning ; I say, more than they that watch for 
the morning.' Hope will make a man wait, yea, wait long for a mercy, 
as it did Abraham, Rom. iv. 18-21. Though the vision stay, yet hope 
will wait for it, Hab. ii. 1-3 ; yet a little, little while, says hope, and he 
that shall come will come, and will not tarry, Heb. x. 36, 37. The 
longer I wait for a mercy, the greater, better, and sweeter, at last, the 
mercy will prove, says hope.^ It is not mercy, if it be not worth a wait- 
ing for, says hope ; and if it be a mercy, thou canst not wait too long 
for it, says hope. 

The men of Bethulia resolved to wait upon God but five days longer, 
but deliverance stayed seven days, and yet came at last. So says hope, 
though deliverance stay, though this and that mercy stays, as it were 
in the birth, yet it will come at last, therefore wait. Hope is not hasty 
in prefixing the time when God shall shew mercy, neither will it limit 
God to the way or manner of shewing mercy, but leave both the time 
and the manner to him that is wise and faithful. Says hope, Christ 
knows his own time, and his own time is best ; though he stays long, 
yet he will certainly come, and he will not stay a moment beyond the 
time he hath prefixed ; and therefore, says hope, be not weary, O soul, 
but still wait patiently upon the Lord : 1 Thes. L 3, * Remembering with- 
out ceasing your work of faith, and labour of love, and patience of hope.' 
Hope is the mother of patience and the nurse of patience ; hope breeds 
patience, and hope feeds patience. If it were not for hope, the heart 
would die ; and if it were not for hope, patience would die. Look, as 
faith gives life and strength to hope, so doth hope give life and strength 
to patience, therefore patience is called patience of hope. Hope main- 
tains patience, as the fuel maintains the fire.* 

[6.] The sixth property of that hope that accompanies salvation is 
this : It is soul-purifying hope ; it puts a Chnstian upon purifying 
himself, as ChHst is pure : 1 John iii. 3, ' And every man that hath 
this hope in him purifieth himself, even as Christ is pure.'* Divine 

^ Chrysostom saith that hope is not only the anchor, but the ship to that good anchor. 
Hypocrites in stormy times are like ships without anchors, tossed up and down with 
every wave, and in danger of being split upon every rock, Job xxvii. 9, 10. 

* Patience is nothing else but hope spun out. If you would lengthen patience, be sure 
to strengthen hope. 

3 Hope's motto is, Quod defertur non avfertur, forbearance is no acquittance. ' 

* Pittacus, one of the seven sages, used to say, A wise man must recover that by 
patience which force cannot command. [Diogenes Laert. i. 77, 78. — G.] The Lord 
shews mucli mercy in timing our mercies for us. Spes e$t meliorum. — Drusius. 

* In quality, though not in equality, as is not a note of parility or equality, but of re- 



510 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

hope runs out into holiness. He that hath the purest and strongest 
hopes of being saved, is most studious and laborious to be sanctified. 
The Greek word ayw'^s/, that is rendered 'purifieih, is a metaphor taken 
either from the ceremonial purifications in time of the Law, or else from 
goldsmiths purifying metals from their dross ; and it notes thus much 
to us, that those that have hopes to reign with Christ in glory, that have 
set their hearts upon that pure and blissful state, that paradise, that 
holy and spiritual state of bliss that is made up of singleness and purity, 
they will purify both their insides and outsides, both body and soul, 
that they may answer to that excellent copy that Christ hath set before 
them, knowing that none shall enjoy everlasting glory but those that 
labour after perfect purity. 

Now hope purifies the heart and life thus, by keeping the purest 
objects, as God, Christ, the word, and the soul together, and by making 
the soul serious and conscientious in the use of all soul-purifying ordi- 
nances, and by being a fire in the soul to burn up all those corruptions 
and principles of darkness that are contrary to that purity and glory 
that hope hath in her eye ; and by working the soul to lean upon Christ, 
to live in Christ, and to draw purifying virtue from Christ, who is the 
spring and fountain of all purity and sanctity. And thus hope purifies 
those that expect to be like Christ in glory.^ 

[7.] The seventh 'property of that hope that accompanies salvation, 
that comprehends salvation, is this : it is permanent and lasting ; it 
will never leave the soul till it hath lodged it in the bosom of ChHst. 
Prov. xiv. 32, ' The righteous hath hope in his death.' The righteous 
man's hope will bed and board with him ; it will lie down with him, 
and rise up with him ; it will to the gi-ave, to heaven with him : his 
motto is. Cum expire spero, my hope lasts beyond life.* 

The Jews' ahcient custom was, by the way as they went with their 
corpse, to pluck up every one the grass, as who should say, they were not 
sorry as men without hope, for their brother was but so cropped off, and 
should spring up again in the morning of the resurrection. And the 
Jews to this very day stick not to call their Golgothas (batte chiim) 
the houses or places of the living. ^ 

That hope that accompanies salvation is a long-lived hope ; it is a 
living hope. 1 Peter i. 3, ' Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord 
Jesus Christ, which, according to his abundant mercy, hath begotten us 
again unto a lively hope,' or a living hope :* a hope that will not die, 
a hope that will not leave a man in life nor death. Ps. Ixxi. 14, ' But 
I will hope continually, and will yet praise thee more and more.' No 

semblance and similitude : as there is a similitude betwixt the face itself and the image 
of the face in the glass, but no equality. 

^ How lively hope makes the soul in religious services, I have shewed in the third 
property. 

2 Prov. X. 28. Austin's hope made him long to die, that he might see that head that 
was once crowned with thorns. 

3 Hope made the ancients to call the days of their de&thnatalta, not dying but birth- 
days, Heb. iii. 6, and vi. 11 ; 1 Peter i. 13 ; Ps. cxxxi. 3. 

* luirai, living ; PIT'S T*Dn. In prosperity and adversity, in health and sickness, in 
life and death, I will hope. It is neither the smiles nor the frowns of the world that sliall 
bury a Christian's hope. A Christian's hope will live in all weathers, and it will make 
a Christian bear up bravely in all storms and under all changes. 



EOM. VIII. 82-34<.] HEAVEN ON EARTH. 511 

trials, no troubles, no afflictions, no oppositions, shall keep down my 
hope, says David. I am peremptorily resolved, in the face of all 
dangers, difficulties, and deaths, to keep up my hopes ; come what will 
come on it, I will rather let my life go than my hope go : I will hope 
continually. A hopeless condition is a very sad condition ; it is the 
worst condition in the world ; it makes a man's life a very hell. If 
' hope deferred maketh the heart sick,' as the wise man speaks, Prov. 
xiii. 12, then the loss of hope will make the soul languish, it will make 
it choose strangling rather than life ; it will make a man's life a con- 
tinual death. A soul without hope is like a ship without anchors. 
Lord, where will a soul stay that stays not upon thee by hope ? A man 
were better part with anything than his hope. 

When Alexander went upon a hopeful expedition, he gave away his 
gold ; and when he was asked what he kept for himself, he answered, 
Spem majorutn et meliorum, the hope of greater and better things. 
A believer's hope is not like that of Pandora, which may fly out of the 
box, and bid the soul an everlasting farewell.^ No ; it is like the 
morning light ; the least beam of it shall commence into a complete 
sunshine. It is aurora gaudii, and it shall shine forth brighter and 
brighter till it hath fully possessed the believer of his Christ and crown. 
This will be the hypocrite's hell and horror when he comes to die, that 
his hope will be like the morning dew, like the spider's web, like the 
crackling of thorns under a pot, and like the giving up of the ghost, 
Job viii. 13, 14, and xi. 20, and xxvii. 8 ; Prov. xiv. 32, and xi. 7. And 
this is now the upright man's joy, that whoever leaves him, yet his hope 
will not leave him, till he hath put on his crown and is set down in 
paradise.^ And thus you see what hope that is that doth accompany 
salvation. Before I close up this chapter, take these two cautions with 
you ; they make for your comfort and settlement. 

[1.] The first caution is this: tJiat all saints have not these things 
that accompany salvation in the same degree. If thou hast but the 
least measure or degree of that knowledge that accompanies salvation, 
or of that faith that accompanies salvation, or of that repentance, or of 
that obedience, or of that love, &c., that accompanies salvation, thou 
mayest be as assuredly confident of thy salvation, as if thou wast al- 
ready in heaven. The least degree, O Christian, of those things that 
accompany salvation, will certainly yield thee a heaven hereafter, and 
why then should it not yield thee a heaven here ? It will imdoubtedly 
yield thee a crown at last; and why should it not yield thee comfort 
and assurance now 1 I judge it may, if thou art not an enemy to thine 
own soul, and to thy own peace and comfort.' 

[2.] The second caidion is this: Though thou dost not jind every one 
of those things in thee that do accompany salvation, yet if thou dost 
find some of those things, ay, though but a few of those thimgs, yea, 

1 Philostratus, Vit. Apoll., vi. 39.— G. 

2 I have read of a Rhodian, who being cast into a dungeon fnll of adders and snakes, 
for some horrid crimes by him committed, some persuaded him to rid himself out of that 
misery by a violent way ; but he answered, No ; for, saith he, as long as I have breath 
in my nostrils, I will ever hope for my deliverance. 

** The Scripture tells you of saints of several sizes : some are babes, some are children, 
some are young men, some are old men. Now, all these do not attain to the same degree ; 
but happy is he that hath the least degree. 



512 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

though hut one of those things that accompanies salvation, that com- 
preJtends salvation, that borders upon salvation, thy estate is safe, and 
hapjnness will be thy portion at last. Thy sense and feeling of one of 
those precious things that accompanies salvation, should be of more 
power to work thee to conclude that thy estate is good, than any other 
thing should work thee to conclude that all is naught, and that thou 
shalt miscarry at last. Do not always side with sin and Satan against 
thine own precious soul.^ 

Having thus discovered to you the way and means of attaining to a 
well-grounded assurance, I shall now hasten to a close. 



CHAPTER VT. 

Shewing the difference between a true and a covniterfeit assurance, 
between sou/nd assurance a/nd presumption. 

(1.) The first difference. A sound and well-grounded assurance is 
attendedwith a deep admiration of God's transcendent love and favour 
to the soul in the Lord Jesus. The assured soul is often a-breathing 
it out thus : Ah, Lord 1 who am I, what am I, that thou shouldst give 
into my bosom the white stone of absolution, when the world hath 
given into their bosoms only the black stone of condemnation? Rev. ii. 17.* 
Lord ! what mercy is this, that thou shouldst give me assurance, give me 
water out of the rock, and feed me with manna from heaven, when ra9,ny 
of thy dearest ones spend their days in sighing, mourning and complain- 
ing for want of assurance. Lord! what manner of love is this, that thou 
shouldst set me upon thy knee, embrace me in thy arms, lodge me in 
thy bosom, and kiss me with the sweet kisses of thy blessed mouth, with 
those kisses that are ' better than wine,' Cant. i. 2, yea, better than life, 
when many are even weary of their lives because they want what I enjoy? 
Ps. Ixiii. 3, Ah, Lord ! by what name shall I call this mercy, this 
assurance that thou hast given me ? It being a mercy that fits me to 
do duties, to bear crosses, and to improve mercies ; that fits me to speak 
sweetly, to judge righteously, to give liberally, to act seriously, to suffer 
cheerfully ,^ and to walk humbly.^ I cannot, says the assured soul, but 
sing it out with Moses, ' Who is like unto thee, Lord, amongst the 
gods ? Who is like thee, glorious in holiness, fearful in praises, doing 
wonders t Exod. xv. 2. And with the apostle, ' Oh, the height, the 
depth, the length and breadth of the love of Christ, which passeth know- 
ledge,' Eph. iii. 18, 19. If the queen of Sheba, says the assured soul, 
was so swallowed up in a deep admiration of Solomon's wisdom, great- 
ness, goodness, excellency and glory, that she could not but admiringly 
breathe it thus out, ' Happy are thy men, happy are these thy servants, 
which stand continually before thee, and that hear thy wisdom,' 1 Kings 

^ No saints are at all times sensible that all those precious things that accompany 
salvation are in them. It is not always day with the saints. 

=* The white stone given among the Romans was a sign of absolution, and the black 
stone was a sign of condemnation. 

3 Assurance is a wonderful alchemy ; it changeth iron to gold, ignominies to crowns, 
and all sufferings to delights. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34;.] heaven on eaeth. 513 

X. 8, Oh then, how should that blessed assurance that I have of the 
love of God, of my interest in God, of my union and communion with 
God, of my blessedness here and my happiness hereafter, work me to a 
deep and serious, to a real and perpetual, admiration of God.^ 

[2.] The second differeTice. Secoodly, A well-grounded assurance doth 
always beget in the soul an earnest and an impatient longing after 
a further, a clearer, and fuller enjoyment of God and Christ. Ps. 
Ixiii. 1, 'O God, thou art my God' — here is assurance; well, what fol- 
lows ? — ' early will I seek thee. My soul thirsteth for thee ; my flesh 
longeth for thee in a dry and thirsty land, where no water is.'^ The 
assured soul cries out, ' I desire to be dissolved, and to be with Christ,' 
PhiHp. i. 23 ; and, ' Make haste, my beloved,' Cant. viii. 14 ; and, 'Come, 
Lord Jesus, come quickly,' Rev. xxii. 17. O Lord Jesus, says the 
assured soul, thou art my light, thou art my life, thou art my love, thou 
art my joy, thou art my crown, thou art my heaven, thou art my all. 
I cannot but long to see that beautiful face that was spit upon for 
my sins, and that glorious head that was crowned with thorns for my 
transgressions. I long to take some turns with thee in paradise, to see 
the glory of thy Jerusalem above, to drink of those rivers of pleasures 
that be at thy right hand, to taste of all the delicates of thy kingdom, 
and to be acquainted with those secrets and mysteries that have been 
hid from all ages, and to be swallowed up in the full enjoyment of thy 
blessed self, Eph. iii. 5, Col. i. 26.« 

[3.] The third difference. Thirdly, A well-grounded assurance is 
usuaUy strongly assaulted by Satan on all sides.*' Satan is such a 
grand enemy to joy and peace, to the salvation and consolation, of the 
saints, that he cannot but make use of all his devices and stratagems to 
amaze and amuse, to disturb and disquiet, the peace and rest of their 
souls. No sooner had Jesus Christ heard that lovely voice from heaven, 
* This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased,' Mat. iii. 17 and 
iv. 1, 2, &c., but he is desperately assaulted by Satan in the wilderness. 
No sooner was Paul dropped out of heaven, after he had seen such visions 
of glory that was unutterable, but he was presently assaulted and buffeted 
by Satan, 2 Cor. ii. 12. Stand up, stand up, assured Christians, and tell 
me whether you have not found the blast of the terrible one to be as a 
storm against the wall, Isa. xxv. 4. Since the Lord said unto you. Be 
of good cheer, your sins are forgjven you, have not you found Satan to 
play the part both of the lion and the wolf, of the serpent and the fox ? 
And all to weaken your assurance, and to work you to question the truth 
of your assurance, and to cast water upon your assurance, and to take 
oif the freshness and sweetness, the beauty and glory, of your assurance ; 
I know you have.' His malice, envy, and enmity is such against God's 

' Assurance of Christ's love made Jerome admiringly to say, my Saviour, didst thou 
die for love of me alone, a [death] more dolorous than death, but to me a death more lovely 
than life itself ! I cannot live, love thee, and be longer from thee. 

* David, though in a wilderness, seeks not for bread or water or protection, but fur 
more of God. 

* The assured soul's motto is, my God! when shall I be with thee, when shall I be 
with thee? 

* The devil marcheth well armed, and in good array, saith Luther. 

< ^ I verily think that they have very much cause to question the truth of their assur- 
ance, who know not what it is to have their assurance assaulted strongly by Satan. 
VOL. II. K k 



5 1 4 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

honour and glory, and your comfort and felicity, that he cannot but be 
very studious and industrious to make use of all traps, snares, methods, 
and ways whereby he may shake the pillars of your faith, and weaken 
and overthrow your assurance. Pirates, you know, do most fiercely 
assault those ships and vessels that are most richly ladeu ;' so doth Satan 
those precious souls that have attained to the riches of full assurance.' 

Assurance makes a paradise in believers' souls, and this makes Satan 
to roar and rage. Assurance fits a man to do God the greatest service 
and Satan the greatest dis-service, and this makes him mad against the 
soul. Assurance makes a saint to be too hard for Satan at all weapons, 
yea, to lead that ' son of the morning ' captive, to spoil him of all his 
hurting power, to bind him in chains, and to triumph over him ; and 
this makes his hell a great deal hotter, Rom. viii. 32-39. And there- 
fore never wonder at Satan's assaulting your assurance, but expect it 
and look for it. The jailor is quiet when his prisoner is in bolts, but if 
he be escaped then he pursues him with hue and cry.^ So long as the 
soul is in bolts and bondage under Satan, Satan is quiet and is not so 
apt to molest and vex it ; but when once a soul is made free, and assured 
of his freedom by Christ, John viii. 36, then says Satan, as once Pharaoh 
did, ' I will arise, I will pursue, I will overtake, I will divide the spoil ; 
my lust shall be satisfied upon them ; I will draw my sword, my hand 
shall destroy them,' Exodus xv. 9. The experience of all assured saints 
doth abundantly confirm this. Israel going into Egypt had no enemies, 
no opposition, but travelling into Canaan they were never free. 

[4.] The fourth difference. Fourthly, A weU grounded-assuranee 
makes a man as bold as a lion ; it makes him valiant and gallant for 
Christ and his cause, in the face of all dangers and deaths} After 
the Holy Ghost was fallen upon the apostles, and had assured them of 
their internal and eternal happiness, oh ! how bold, how undaunted, 
how resolute were they in the face of all oppositions, afflictions, and 
persecutions ! as you may see from the second of the Acts of the 
ApOvStles to the end of the Acts. So assurance had this operation upon 
David's heart : Ps. xxiii. 4, 6 compared, ' Surely goodness and mercy 
shall follow me all the days of my life.' Well, David, but how doth this 
assurance of yours operate ? Why, saith he ' Though I walk through 
the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil.' So Moses having 
an assurance of the 'recompence of reward,' he fears not the wrath of 
the king, ' for he endured, as seeing him who is invisible,' Heb. xi. 
26, 27. So in Heb. x. 34, ' And ye took joyfully the spoiling of your 
goods, knowing in yourselves that ye have in heaven a better and an 
enduring substance.' ^ Oh, that knowledge, that assurance that they 

> See Index under Iieighton. — G. 

• 8atan is that old serpent, as John speaks, Eev. xii. 9. He is as old as the world, and 
is grown very cunning by experience, he being a spirit of above five thousand years' 
standing. 

3 Luther cries out, I am set upon by all the world without, and within by the devil 
and all his angels. 

* Tanto plus ffloricB referemus quoniam eo plures snperabimus. The number of opposers 
makes the Christian's conquest the more illustrious, say saints under the power of 
assurance, &c. 

'^ ixaerierifft, was Constant. . . . 'yitai^KevTtt ix"* >' i'^vraTs, Knowing that you have in 
yourselves, K^tirTna vTct^^m in eS^moif xa'i fcitoviray, a better being in heaven, and an 
abiding one. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34] heaven on earth. 515 

had in their own hearts of enjoying in heaven a better and a more en- 
during substance, made them bear cheerfully and gallantly the spoiling 
of their worldly goods. Though the archers — the world, the flesh, and 
the devil — do shoot sore at a soul under assurance, yet his bow will still 
abide in strength. Assurance will make a man to break a bow of steel, 
to trample down strength, and to triumph over all oppositions and 
afflictions. 

Colonus the Dutch martyr called to the judge that had sentenced 
him to death, and desired him to lay his hand upon his heart, and 
asked him whose heart did most beat, his or the judge's. Assurance 
will make a man do this, and much more for Christ and his cause. 

[5.] The fifth difference. Fifthly, A well-grounded assurance of a 
man's own eternal happiness and blessedness ^'iWiMike him very studious 
and laborious to make others happy: Ps. Ixvi. 16, ' Come and hear, all 
ye that fear God, and I will tell you what he hath done for my soul.' 
I will acquaint you with the soul blessings, with the soul favours, that 
God hath crowned me with. I was darkness, but he hath made me 
light ; I was unrighteousness, but he hath made me righteous ; I was 
deformed, but he hath made me complete ; I was full of sores, and spots, 
and blemishes, but he hath washed me, and made me all fair, without 
spot or wrinkle. I have found the want of assurance, I now see the 
worth of assurance ; I have long sought assurance, and now I find the 
sweetness of assurance. Ah ! it is such a pearl of price, it is such a 
beam of God, it is such a spark of glory, that makes my soul a rich 
amends for all its waiting, weeping, and wrestling.* 

So, when it pleased God to call Paul by his grace, and to reveal 
Christ in him^ and to him, ah ! how doth he labour, as for life, to bring 
others to an acquaintance with Christ, and to an acceptance of Christ, 
and to an assurance of everlasting happiness and blessedness by Christ! 
After Paul had been in paradise, he makes it his all to bring others to 
paradise, 2 Cor. xii. So the spouse in the Canticles, having assurance 
of her interest in Christ, how doth she labour, by all holy and heavenly 
rhetoric and logic, by all the strains of love and sweetness, to draw the 
daughters of Jerusalem to a sight of Christ ! Cant, v. 10-16, and vi. 1, 
&c. When a beam of divine light and love had shined upon Andrew, 
he labours to draw his brother Simon to the fountain of all light and 
love, John i. 40-42. And when Philip had but a cast of Christ's coun- 
tenance, his pulse beats, and his heart calls upon Nathanael to come 
and share with him in that loving-kindness that was better than life, 
John i. 43-47. 

The constant cry of souls under the power of assurance is, ' Come, 
taste and see how good the Lord is,' Ps. xxxiv. 8. Ah, sinners, sinners ! 
' his ways are ways of pleasantness, and all his paths are peace,' Prov. 
iii. 17 ; his ' commands are not grievous,' 1 John v. 3, but joyous ; ' his 
j'oke is easy, and his burden is light,' Mat. xi. 30 ; not only /or keeping, 
but also ' m keeping of his commands there is great reward,' Ps. xix. 11. 
Assurance will strongly put men upon winning of others by counsel, by 
example, by prayer, and by communicating their spiritual experiences 
t6 them. Assurance will furnish a man with will, skill, and expe- 

' Eph. V. 8 ; 1 Cor. i. 30 ; Col. it 10 ; Isa. i. 6 ; Eph. v. 26, 27 ; Cant. iv. 7. 
^ Gal. i. 15, 16, i> t/tii, in me. 



516 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34<. 

rience to confute all those false reports that vain men frequently cast 
upon the Lord and his ways. It will make a man proclaim to the 
world ' that one day in the Lord's courts is better than a thousand years 
elsewhere/ Ps. Ixxxiv. 10 ; that there are more glorious joys, more pure 
comforts, more abiding peace, more royal contents, more celestial de- 
lights, in one day's walking with Ood, in one hour's communion with 
God, &c., than is to be found in all things below God. And by these 
and such like ways, souls under the power of a well-grounded assurance 
do endeavour to make others happy with themselves. A soul under 
assurance is unwilling to go to heaven without company. He is often 
a-ciying out, Father, bless this soul too, and crown that soul too : let 
us to heaven together, let us be made happy together. 

[6.] The sixth difference. Sixthly, A well-grounded assurance of 
God's love, and of a man's everlasting happiness and blessedness, will 
exceedingly avni and strengthen him against all wickedness and 
baseiiess, Ezek. xvi. 60-63. No man loathes sin, and himself for sin, 
as such a man ; no man wars and watches against sin more than such 
a man ; no man sighs and mourns, bleeds and complains, under the 
sense of sinful motions and sinful operations more than such a man, 
Luke vii. 44, 50. Every stirring of sin makes a man that is under the 
power of assurance to cry out, * O wretched man that I am, who shall 
deliver me from this body of death?' Rom. vii. 22-25 : Ps. Ixxxv. 8, * I 
will hear what God the Lord will speak ; for he will speak peace unto 
his people, and to his saints : and let them not turn again to folly,' or, 
as the Hebrew will bear, ' And they shall not return to folly.' God's 
speaking peace to his people fences and fortifies them against folly and 
vanity. 

The assurance that Joseph had of his master's love armed him against 
the lascivious assaults of his lustful mistress ; and will not divine love, 
that is stronger than death, do this and more ? Cant. viii. 6, 7. Assur- 
ance makes a man say to his sins, as he to his idols, ' Get you hence, 
for what have I any more to do with idols ?' ' So says the assured soul. 
Away pride, away passion, away worldly-mindedness, away uncleanness, 
away uneharitableness, &c., for what have I any more to do with you ? 
Assurance makes the soul speak to sin as David speaks to sinners : 
Ps. cxix. 115, ' Depart from me, ye workers of iniquity; for I will keep 
the commandments of my God :' so says the assured soul. Depart from 
me, O my lusts, for I have tasted of the love of God, and I have given 
up myself wholly and only to God, and I cannot but keep the com- 
mandments of my God. The Jewish Rabbins report, that the same 
night that Israel departed out of Egypt towards Canaan, all the idols 
and idolatrous temples in Egypt, by lightning and earthquakes, were 
broken down. So when Christ and assurance comes to be set up in 
the soul, all the idols of Satan and a man's own heart are cast down, 
and cast out as an abomination. Sound assurance puts a man upon 
'purifying himself, even as Christ is pure,' 1 John iii. 2, 3. The 
assured Christian knows, that it is dangerous to sin against light, thnt 
it is more dangerous to sin against love, that it is most dangerous to sin 
against love revealed and manifested. God may well say to such a 

• Hosea xiv. 8, compared with verses 2-6. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34] heaven on earth. 517 

Christian, Is this th j kindness ta thy friend ? To sin under assurance, 
is to sin against the bowels of mercy, it is to sin against the highest 
hopes of glory; and this will certainly provoke God to be angry. 1 
Kings xi. 9, * And the Lord was angry with Solomon,* because his heart 
was turned from the Lord God of Israel, that had appeared to him 
twice.' To sin under assurance, is to sin in paradise; it is to sin under 
the flaming sword, it is to sin in the suburbs of heaven, it is to run the 
hazard of losing that favour 'that is better than, life,' of that 'joy that 
is unspeakable and full of glory,' and of that ' peace that passes under- 
standing.' To sin under assurance, is to cast reproach upon Christ, to 
grieve the Spirit, to wound conscience, tO' weaken your graces, to blur 
your evidences, to usher in calamities, to embitter your mercies, and to 
provoke the tempter to triumph over your Saviour. Verily, that assur- 
ance is but presumption that works men to play with sin, to be bold 
with sin, to make light of sin, to walk on in ways of sin. Such assur- 
ance will never bring a man to heaven, it will never keep him from 
dropping into hell, yea, it will double his damnation, and make him the 
most miserable among all damned, miserable, forlorn spirits. Ah, 
Lord ! from such an assiirance deliver my soul ; and give me more and 
more of that divine assurance that makes sin to be more hateful than 
hell, and that makes the soul to be more careful to avoid the one, than 
it is fearful of falling into the other.^ 

[7.] The seventh difference. Seventhly, A well-grounded assurance 
is always attended with three fair handmaids, or with three sweet 
companions, 

(1.) The first haTidmaid. The first is love. Oh!, the assurance of 
divine favour doth mightily inflame a man's love to Christ. Mary 
Magdalene loved much ; Christ's love to her drew out her love very 
much to Christ, Luke vii. Assurance makes the soul sing it out with 
that sweet singer of Israel, ' I will dearly love thee, O Lord, my strength,' 
Ps. xviii 2.^ Lovers know not how to keep silence ; lovers of Christ are 
full of gracious expressions. Magnes amoris est amor; love is the 
attractive loadstone of love. It is impossible for a soul not to love Christ, 
that knows he is beloved of Christ. Christ's love constrains the soul to 
love, not by forcible but loving necessity. Praxiteles exquisitely drew 
love, taking the pattern from that passion which he felt in his own heart. 
A believer cannot find the heart of Christ to be beating towards him, 
but his heart will strongly beat towards Christ. Divine love is like a 
rod of myrtle, which, as Pliny reports, makes the traveller that carries 
it in his hand, that he shall never be faint, weary of walking, or loving.* 
Love alone overpowereth all power. Love is the diadem ; none but the 
queen must wear it. Love is the wedding garment ; none but the spouse 
can fit it. Love is a loadstone to draw, as well as a fire to warm. He 
that doth not love Christ, was never assured of the love of Christ. 

* f|3Nn*1, Vaiithaiwaph in Pihil,^ to shew that the Lord waa greatly angry with 
Solomon. The root C|JX, signifies properly to snuff with anger. It notes such anger as 
appeareth ia the paleness of the face, and snuj£ng of the nose. 

* This made Anselm say, That he had rather be thrust into hell without sin, than go 
into heaven with sin. 

* OmiN, from Dm, to love intimately and dearly, as a tender mother loves the 
fruit of her womb. 

* See Index under Myrtle, for former allusions.— G. 



5J8 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34.t 

(2.) The second handmaid, or companion that attends a well- 
grounded assurance, is humility. David, under assurance, cries out, 
* I am a worm and no man,' ^ Ps. xxii. 6 ; Abraham, under assurance, 
cries out, that he is but ' dust and ashes ;' Jacob, under assurance, cries 
out, that he was * less than the least of all mercies ;' Job, under assur- 
ance, 'abhors himself in dust and ashes;' Moses had the honour and 
the happiness to speak with God ' face to face ;' he was very much in 
God's books, in God's favour ; and yet a more humble soul the earth 
did never bear. The great apostle Paul, under all the revelations 
and glorious manifestations of God to him, counts himself ' less than 
the least of all saints,' Eph. iiL 8. That is presumption, that is a 
delusion of the devil, and no sound assurance, that puffs and sw^ells the 
«ouls of men, that makes men prize themselves above the mafket, above 
the value that God hath put upon them. 

(3.) The third handm/iid or companion that attends assurance, is. 
holy joy. Ah ! this assurance causes the strong waters of consolation to 
overflow the soul. Assurance raises the strongest joy in the soul : 
Luke i. 46, 47, and Mary said, ' My soul doth magnify the Lord, and 
my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Saviour.' When a man comes to be 
assured that God is his Saviour, presently his spirit rejoices in God. 
This truth is held forth by three parables in that of Luke xv., so in that 
of 1 Peter i. 8, 9, ' Whom having not seen, ye love ; in whom, though 
now ye see him not, yet believing, ye rejoice with joy unspeakable, and 
full of glory : receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation of your 
souls.'^ Oh the joy, the joy, the inexpressible joy that attends a well- 
grounded assurance ! Assurance raises a paradise of delight in the soul. 
In quihus operamur, in illis et gaudem^us, saith TertuUian : in what 
things or persons we act, in those things we rejoice.^ A Christian, 
under the power of assurance, works all his works in Christ ; in him, 
therefore, and in him alone, he rejoice th. 

[8.] The eighth difference. Eighthly, and lastly, A well-grounded 
assurance sometimes springs from the testimony und witness of the 
Spirit of God. The Spirit sometimes witnesses to a believer's spirit 
that he is born of Ood, that he is beloved of God, that he hath union 
and communion with God, and that he shall reign for ever with God : 
Rom. viii. 26, ' The Spirit itself beareth witness with our spirits, that 
we are the children of God.' The Spirit itself witnesseth not only the 
gifts and graces of the Spirit, but the S{Mrit itself witnesseth together with 
our own spirit, that we are the children of God.* Sometimes the saints 
have two witnesses joining their testimonies together to confirm and 
establish them in these blessed and glorious truths, that they are the 
sons of God and heirs of glory ; and this is their honour as well as their 
comfort, that the blessed Spirit should bear witness at the bar of their 
conscience that they are the sons of God : 1 Cor. ii. 12, ' Now we liave 

' nV7"in. The Hebrew word tolagnah, that is Ivere rendered worm, signifiea a very 
little worm, which a man can haxdly see or perceive. 

* ^Aya.xxMffh, to dance aiui leap for joy ; l«J«g«r/«i*>i, glorified already, they haye heaven's 
happiness beforehand. 

» Apology : frequently, — G. 

* nuri ri vnu/iu,, that same spirit. The Spirit's work is not ^agri/^uV, but rvfifta^n/^tT*, 
to witness together with our spirit, that is, to confixm and ratify wuat our spiriia iiav© 
asserted concerning our adoption, &o. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34] heaven on eaeth. 519 

received, not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit which is of God ; 
that we might know the things that are freely given to us of God ;' that 
is, that we may know our election, vocation, justification, sanctification, 
and glorification. A man may receive many things that are freely 
given of God, and yet not know them till the Spirit comes and makes 
them known to the soul. 

Quest. But you may say to me. How shall we know the whispering 
of the Holy Spirit from the hissing of the old serpent ? How shall we 
know the report, the witness, and testimony of the Spirit of Christ, 
from that report, witness, and testimony that the old serpent deludes 
and deceives many by, in these days wherein he mostly appears in his 
angelical robes ? 

Ans. I answer, you may know the whispering of the-Spirit from the 
hissing of the old serpent, &c., by these following things, which I 
desire that you would seriously consider, as you tender the peace and 
settlement, the satisfaction, consolation, and salvation of your own 
souls. 

(1.) The first difference. First, The Spirit of Christ doth not witness 
by any oviward voice, as God did from heaven of Christ, Mat. iii. 17; 
nor by an angel, as to the Virgin Mary, Luke i. 80-34; ; but by an 
inward, secret, glorious, and unspeakable way he bids believers be of 
good cheer, their sins are forgiven them, as Christ said to the palsied 
man in the Gospel, Mat. ix. 2. And this truth is to be solemnly minded 
against those poor deceived and deluded souls in these days,^ that would 
make the world believe that they have had such and such glorious 
things made known by an outward, audible voice from heaven. It is 
much to be feared that they never found the inward, the sweet, the 
secret, the powerful testimony and report of the Spirit of Christ, that 
boast, and brag, and rest so much upon an outward testimony. In 
1 Kings xix. 11-13, you read of ' a great strong wind that rent the 
mountains, and brake in pieces the rocks : but the Lord was not in 
the wind : and after the wind there was an earthquake ; but the Lord 
was not in the earthquake : and after the earthquake a fire ; but the 
Lord was not in the fire : and after the fire there was a still small voice,' 
and the Lord spake to Elijah in that still small voice. Ah, Christians ! 
the Spirit of the Lord makes not a noise, but he comes in a still small 
voice, as I may say, and makes a soft and secret report to the soul, 
that it is beloved, that it is pardoned, and that it shall be for ever 
glorified. 

(2.) The second difference. Secondly, The testimony and witness of 
the Spirit of Christ is only gained and enjoyed in holy and heavenly 
ways, as you may clearly see by comparing the Scriptures in the margin 
together.* The Spirit of the Lord is a Holy Spirit, and he cannot, he 
will not make any report of the love of the Father to the soul out of a 
way of holiness. Verily, all those glorious reports that many boast 
they have met with in sinful ways, in wretched and ungodly ways, are 
from the hissing of the old serpent, and not from the whisperings of the 
Spirit of grace. I think it is little less than blasphemy for any ta 
affirm, that the blessed Spirit of Christ doth make reports of the love 

* Quakers and Ranters. 

* Acts X. 4 : Dan. ix. 20-22 ; lea. Ixiv. 5 ; Acts x. 44, &c. 



520 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. YIIT. 32-34. 

and favour of God to persons walking in ways of wickedness and 
baseness.^ 

(3.) The third difference. Thirdly, The testimony and witness of the 
Spirit of Christ, is a dear, a full, a satisfying testimony and witness, 
John xiv. 17, 1 John iii. 24. The soul sits down under the home- 
reports of the Spirit, and saith, liord, it is enough ; the soul being full, 
sits down and sweetly sings it out : ' My beloved is mine, and I am his. 
I am my well-beloved's, and his desire is towards me,' Cant. ii. 16, and 
vii. 10. * The Lord is my portion and the lot of mine inheritance,' Ps. 
xvi 5. 'I have none in heaven but thee, neither is there any on earth 
that I desire in comparison of thee,' Ps. Ixxiii. 25. ' Henceforth is laid 
up for me a crown of righteousness,' 2 Tim. iv. 8. * Make haste, my 
beloved,' &c.. Cant. viii. 14. Such power, majesty, and glory, attends 
the glorious testimony of the Spirit of Christ, as scatters all clouds, as 
resolves all doubts, as answers all objections, as silences the wrangling 
soul, &c. If the testimony of the Spirit of Christ were not a full, satisfy- 
ing testimony, it could never fill the soul with such joy as is ' unspeak- 
able and full of glory,' and with ' such peace as passes understanding ;' 
if the testimony were not satisfactory, the soul would still be under fears 
and doubts, the heart would still be a-wrangling and quarrelling, I may 
perish, and I may be undone, I may have the door of mercy shut against 
me, &c. If you bring news to a condemned person that the king hath 
pardoned him, and that he will receive him to favour, and confer such 
and such dignity upon him, yet this doth not quiet him nor satisfy him, 
till he knows it is the king's act, till he is satisfied in that, he cannot 
say it is enough, he cannot be cheerful, he cannot be delightful, &c. 
But when he is satisfied that it is the king's act, that the king hath cer- 
tainly done this and that for him, then he is satisfied, and then sighing 
and mourning flies away, and then he rejoices with joy unspeakable. 
So it is with a believing soul under the testimony and witness of the 
spirit of Christ. 

(4.) The fourth difference. Fourthly, Though the Spirit be a wit- 
nessing Spirit, yet he doth not always witness to believers their adop- 
tion, their interest in Christ, &c. There is a mighty difference between 
the working of the Spirit and the witness of the Spirit. There are 
oftentimes many glorious and efficacious works of the Spirit, as faith, 
love, repentance, holiness, &c., where there is not the witness of the 
Spirit. Isa. 1. 10. David at that very time had the Spirit, and many 
sweet workings of the Spirit in him and upon him, when he had by sin 
lost the witness and testimony of the Spirit, Ps. li. 1 0-1 2. Though 
the Spirit of the Lord be a witnessing and a sealing Spirit, yet he doth 
not alway witness and seal up the love and favour of the Father to 
believers' souls, as you may see by the scriptures in the margin,* and as 
the experience of many precious Christians can abundantly evidence. 
All believers do not see alike need of this testimony, they do not all 
alike prize this testimony, they do not all alike observe it and improve 
it ; and therefore, it is no wonder if the Spirit be a witnessing Spirit 
to some and not to others. You do but gratify Satan and wrong your 

' Yet this age hath many such monsters. 

' Job xxiii. 8, 9 ; 1 John v. 13 ; Ps. Ixxxviii., Ixxvii. ; Micah. vii. 8, 9 ; Isa. viii. 17. 



Rom. VIII. 32-84.] heaven on earth. 521 

own souls, when you argue that certainly you have not the Spirit, because 
he is not a witnessing and a sealing Spirit to your souls. Though it be 
the office of the Spirit to witness, yet it is not his office always to wit- 
ness to believers their happiness and blessedness. The Spirit may act 
one way and in one room of the soul, when he doth not act in another. 
Sometimes the Spirit works upon the understanding, sometimes upon 
the will, sometimes upon the affections, sometimes upon faith, sometimes 
upon fear, sometimes upon love, sometimes upon humility, &c. Our 
hearts are the Spirit's harps. If a man should always touch one string 
in an instrument, he should never play various tunes, he should never 
make pleasant music ; no more would the Spirit, if he should be always 
a-doing one thing in the soul. Therefore he acts variously. Sometimes 
he will shew himself a quickening Spirit, sometimes an enlightening 
Spirit, sometimes a rejoicing Spirit, sometimes a sealing Spirit, and 
always a supporting Spirit, &c.'' 

(5.) The fifth difference. Fifthly, The testimony and witness of the 
Spirit ia a sure testimony, a sure witness. The Spirit is truth itself; 
he is the great searcher of the deep things of God. The Spirit of the 
Lord is the discoverer, the confuter, and destroyer of all false spirits.'* 
The Spirit is above all possibility of being deceived, he is omnipotent, 
he is omniscient, he is omnipresent, he is one of the cabinet-council of 
heaven ; he lies and lives in the bosom of the Father, and can call them 
all by name upon whom the Father hath set his heart, and therefore his 
testimony must needs be true. It is a surer testimony than if a man 
should hear a voice from heaven pronouncing him to be happy and 
blessed. You may safely and securely lay the weight of your souls 
upon this testimony ; it never hath, it never will deceive any that hath 
leaned upon it. This testimony will be a rock that will bear up a soul, 
when other false testimonies will be but ' a reed of Egypt,' that will 
deceive the soul, that will undo the soul ; as I am afraid many in this 
deluding age have found by sad experience. 

(6.) The sixth difference. Sixthly, The testimony of God's Spirit is 
always acconripanied with the testimony of our own.^ These may be 
distinguished, but they can never be separated. When the Spirit of 
God gives in witness for a man, his own spirit doth not give in witness 
against him. Look, as face answers to face, so doth the witness of a 
believer's spirit answer to the witness of the Spirit of Christ. Rom. viii. 
16, ' The Spirit witnesseth together with our spirits that we be the sons 
of God.' Now, if our own consciences do not testify first, that we are 
sons and heirs, the Spirit doth not testify ; for the Spirit bears witness 
together with our spirits. St John is very express in 1 John iii. 21, 
' But if our hearts condemn us not, then have we confidence toward 
God. But if our hearts condemn us, God is greater than our hearts, 
and knoweth all things,' 1 John v. 8-J 2, and ' There are three that 

* A man may be a-doing in one room, when he is not in another. So is the Spirit in 
the heart of a saint. 

» Titus i. 2 ; John xiv. 17 ; 1 Cor. ii. 10 ; 1 John iv. 1-6. 

' I do not say that the testimony of our spirits i.s always accompanied with the testi- 
niony of the Spirit, No; for a believer hath often the single testimony of his own spirit, 
when he wants the testimony of the Spirit of Christ, and the single testimony of his own 
conscience will afford him much courage and comfort, 2 Cor. i. 12. Yea, it will make 
a paradise of delight in his soul, &c. 



522 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

bear witness in earth, the Spirit, and the water, and the blood, and these 
three agree in one.' The Spirit doth witness eminently and efficiently, 
but water and blood materially, and our spirits and reason instrument- 
ally. By the Spirit we may understand the Holy Ghost, by whose 
strength we lay hold on Christ and all his benefits. By water we may 
understand our regeneration, our sanctification ; and by blood we may 
understand the blood and righteousness of Christ, that is imputed and 
applied by faith to us. ' And these three agree in one,' that is, they 
do all three of one accord testify the same thing. 

(7.) The seventh difference. Seventhly, The witness of the Spirit is 
ever according to the word. There is a sweet harmony between the in- 
ward and the outward testimony, between the Spirit of God and the 
word of God. The scriptures were all indited by the Spirit, 2 Peter 
i. 20, 21 ; and therefore the Spirit cannot contradict himself, which he 
should do, if he should give in any testimony contrary to the testimony 
of the word. It is blasphemy to make the testimony of the Spirit to 
contradict the testimony of the word. The Spirit hath revealed his 
whole mind in the word, and he will not give a contrary testimony to 
what he hath given in the word. The word saith. They that are born 
again, that are new creatures, that believe and repent, shall be saved. 
But thou art bom again, thou art a new creature, thou believest and 
repentest ; therefore thou shalt be saved, saith the Spirit. The Spirit 
never looseth where the word bindeth, the Spirit never justifies where 
the word condemns, the Spirit never approves where the word dis- 
approves, the Spirit never blesses where the word curses. In the Old 
Testament all revelations were to be examined by the word, Deut. xiii. 
1-4. Isa. viii. 20, ' To the law and to the testimony : if they speak 
not according to this word, it is because there is no light (or no morn- 
ing) in them.' ^ So in that of John xvi. J 3, ' The Spirit shall lead you 
into all truth : for he shall not speak of himself ; but what he shall 
hear, that shall he speak.' Here the Holy Ghost is brought in as some 
messenger or ambassador who only relates things faithfully according 
to that he hath in charge. Such as look and lean upon the hissing of 
the old serpent, may have a testimony that they are happy, against the 
testimony of the word ; but wherever the Spirit of Christ gives in his 
testimony, it is still according to the word. Look, as indenture answers 
to indenture, or as the counterpain* exactly answers to the principal 
conveyance; there is article for article, clause for clause, covenant for 
covenant, word for word ; so doth the testimony of the Spirit exactly 
answer to the testimony of the word. 

(8.) The eighth difference Eighthly, It is a holy witness, a holy 
testimony.^ It is formally, it is originally holy, it is effectually holy. 
Nothing makes the heart more in the love, study, practice, and growth 
of holiness, than the glorious testimony of the Holy Spirit; and the more 
clear and full the testimony is, the more holy and gracious it will make 

' int? IT^^N. We are not only blind, but lame too ; therefore the Spirit shall lead us 
to the knowledge and practice of all necessary saving truths. 

» ' Counterpain,' «. e. counterpart, adds another to Halliwell's examples of the rare use 
of this word. See Halliwell, tub voce G. 

' Nil nisi sanctum <2 saneto Spiritu prodiere potest, nothing can come from the Holy Spirit 
but that which is holy. 



Rom. VIIL 32-34.] heaven on earth. 528 

the soul. Nothing puts such golden engagements upon the soul to 
holiness, as the Spirit sealing a man up to the day of redemption, as the 
Spirit speaking and sealing peace, love, and pardon to the soul, Ps. 
Ixxxv. 8; 1 Cor. xv. 31; 2 Cor. v. 14. Nothing makes a man more 
careful to please Christ, more fearful to offend Christ, more studious 
to exalt Christ, and more circumspect to walk with Christ, than this 
testimony of the Spirit of Christ. Verily, that is not the blessed whis- 
pering of Christ's Spirit, but the hissing of the old serpent, that makes 
men bold with sin, that makes men dally with sin, that makes man a 
servant to sin, that breeds a contempt of ordinances, a neglect of holy 
duties, a carelessness in waljiing with God. And from those hissings of 
the old serpent, Lord, deliver my soul, and the souls of all thy servants 
that put their trust in thee ! 

(9.) The ninth difference. Ninthly and lastly, Assurance ia a jewel, 
a pearl of that price, that God only bestows it upon renewed hearts. 
The Spirit never sets his seal upon any, but upon those that Christ hath 
first printed his image upon. God gives to none the white stone, Rev. 
ii. 1 7, but to those from whom he hath taken the heart of stone ; Ezek. 
xxxvi. 25, 26, 27 compared. Christ never tells a man that his name is 
written in tlie book of life, till he hath breathed into him spiritual life, 
Luke x. 20. Christ never says, Son, be of good cheer, thy sin is par- 
doned, till he hath first said, Be thou healed, be thou cleansed, Luke v. 
18-20. Christ never gives a man a new name, that is better than the 
names of sons and daughters, till he hath made them new creatures, 
Isa. Ivi. 5 ; 2 Cor. v. 17. Of slaves Christ first makes us sons, before 
we cry Abba, Father, Rom. viii. 15. Of enemies, he first makes us 
friends, before he will make us of his court or counsel, Eph. ii. 13-20. 
Christ will never hang a pearl in a swine's snout, nor put new wine into 
old bottles, nor his royal robes upon a leprous back, nor his golden 
chain about a dead man's neck, nor his glistering crown upon a traitor's 
head. The Spirit never sets his seal upon any, but upon those that 
Christ hath first set as a seal upon his heart, Eph. i. 1 3 ; Cant. viii. 6. 
The Spirit only bears witness to such as hate sin as Christ hates it, 
and that love righteousness as Christ loves it, that hate sin more than 
hell, and that love truth more than hfe, Ps. xlv. 7. A soul sealed by 
the Spirit will pull out right eyes, and cut oft" right hands, for Christ ; 
such souls will part with a Benjamin, and offer up an Isaac, for Christ. 
And this is to be seriously minded against those deceived and deluded 
souls, that remain yet in their blood, and that wallow in their sins, and 
yet boast and brag of the seal and of the witness and testimony of the 
Spirit. 

And thus I have shewed you the difierence between the whisperings 
of the Spirit and the hissing of the old serpent, between a true testimony 
and a false. 



CHAPTER VII. 

^ Containing answers to several special questions about assurance, 
[1.] The first question. But methinks I hear some precious souls 



524 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

saying, Sirs ! we have, after much praying, weeping, and waiting, gained 
this pearl of price, assurance ; but oh, how shall we do to strengthen it, 
how shall we do to keep it ? Satan will labour to weaken our assurance, 
and to rob us of this jewel that is more worth than a world ; what means 
must we use to strengthen our assurance and to secure it ? &c. 

Inow to this question I shall give these following answers : 

First, If you would have your assurance strengthened and maintained, 
then keep close to soul-strengthening ways, be serious and sincere, be 
diligent and constant in tlie use of those means and ways wherein 
you first gained assurance, as prayer, the word, breaking of bread, 
communion of saints, &c.^ A conscionable and cordial use of holy and 
heavenly means is blessed, not only with a preservation of assurance, but 
likewise with an addition and increase of it. The ways of God, and his 
goings in the sanctuary, have wrought wonders upon thee, when thou 
wast dead, how much more will they work upon thee and for thee, now 
thou art by grace made alive ? He that will not apply himself to God's 
strengthening methods will quickly find his assurance weakened, if not 
wholly wasted. He that thinks himself too good for ordinances, will 
quickly grow weak in his assurance. The choicest prophets, and highest 
apostles, if I may so speak, that had attained to the fullest assurance, kept 
close to the ways and precious institutions of Christ.* Verily, those 
that pretend to live above ordinances-, and yet live below them, never 
knew by experience what a mercy it was to have a well-grounded 
assurance, or else they have lost that blessed assurance that once they 
had, &c. 

Secondly, If you would strengthen- and maintain your assurance, 
then dwell much upon your spiritual and eternal privileges, viz., 
your adoption, justification, reconciliation, &c., 1 Peter ii. 9'. This you 
shall find by experience will mightily tend to the strengthening and 
maintaining of your assurance. He that neglects this rule will quickly 
find his sun to set in a doud, his harp to be turned into mourning, and 
his organ into the voice of them that weep,^ Job xxx. 31. 

Thirdly, If you would strengthen and maintain your assurance, then 
look that your hearts run more out to Ghi'ist than to assurance ; to 
the sun than to the beams, to the fountain than to the stream, to the 
root than to the branch, to the cause than to the effect, Cant. i. 13. 
Assurance is sweet, but Christ is more sweet. Assurance is lovely, but 
Christ is altogether lovely. Cant. v. 16. Assurance is precious, but 
Christ is most precious, Prov. iii. 15. Though assurance be a flower 
that yields much comfort and delight, yet it is but a flower. Though 
assurance be a precious box, yet it is but a box. Though assurance be 
a ring of gold, yet it is but a ring of gold. And what is the flower to 
the root, what is the box to the ointment, what is the ring to the pearl ? 
No more is assurance to Christ. Therefore let thy eye and heart, first, 
most, and last, be fixed upon Christ, then will assurance bed and board 
with thee ; otherwise thou wilt quickly find thy summer to be turned 
into winter. 

' The old mle was, B.oe age, 

• A cool spirit is always a losing spirit ; the doing heart, the diligent heart, turns the 
spark into a flame, the mite into a million, &c. 

» Holy and heavenly privileges are the food by which assurance ia cherished and 
maintained. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on eabth. 525 

Fourthly, If you wouid strengthen and maintain your assurance, then 
look that your hearts are more taken up with ChHst than with your 
graces. Though grace be a glorious creature, yet it is but a creature ; 
therefore let grace have your eye, but be sure that Christ have your 
heart. Christ must have your heart. Christ will not allow your very 
graces to be corrivals with him. He that minds his graces more than 
Christ, or that sets his graces upon the throne with Christ, will quickly 
find what it is to lose the face and favour of Christ. Your graces are but 
Christ's servants and handmaids ; you may look upon them, but you must 
not match with them. It is a reproach to Christ, that those who have mar- 
ried the master, should at the same time match with the servant.' The 
queen may look upon her glistering courtiers, but she must live upon the 
king ; the wife may take pleasure in her lovely babes, but she must live 
upon her husband, and be most observant of her husband. So gracious 
souls may look upon their graces, but they must live upon king Jesus ; they 
may take pleasure in their graces, but they must live upon Christ, and 
be most observant of Christ. This is the way to keep Christ and assur- 
ance, and he that walks contrary to this rule will soon find the loss of 
both. • Christ will be Alexander or Nemo ; he will be all in all, or he 
will be nothing at all. Though his coat was once divided, yet he will 
never suffer his crown to be divided, John xix. 23, Isa. xlii. 8. 

Fifthly, If you would have your assurance strengthened and main- 
tained, then labour to improve it to the strengthening of you against 
temptations, to the fencing of you against corruptions, to the raisii^g 
of your resolutions, to the influming of your affections, to tlie better- 
ing of your conversations} Assurance is a pearl of price ; he that 
will keep it must improve it. The ready way to maintain our natural 
strength, and to increase it, is to improve it. Assurance is one of the 
choicest and chiefest talents that ever God entrusted man with, and 
he that doth not improve it, and employ it, will quickly lose it, &c. God 
will not suffer so golden a talent to gather rust, Mat. xxv, 28. Win gold and 
wear gold, improve gold and keep gold ; win assurance and wear assur- 
ance, improve assurance and keep assurance. Dionysius the elder, being 
advised of one that had hidden great store of money, commands him upon 
pain of death to bring it to him, which h^ did, but not all ; but with 
the remainder he went and dwelt in another country, where he bought 
an inheritance, and fell upon some employment, which, when Dionysius 
heard, he sent him his money again which he had taken from him, say- 
ing, Now thou knowest how to use riches, take that I had from thea I 
shall leave you to make the application. 

Sixthly, If you would have your assurance strengthened and main- 
tained, then walk humbly with your God, Micah vi. 8. God makes 
the humble man's heart his house to dwell in : Isa. Ivii. 15, ' Thus saith 
the high and lofty One that inhabiteth eternity, whose name is Holy ; 
I dwell in the high and holy place, with him also that is of a contrite 

1 Christ is the pot of manna, the cruse of oil, the bottomless ocean, the most sparkling 
diamond in the ring of glory, &c. When Darius sent to Alexander that he would be 
willing to divide the kingdom, No, saith Alexander, there is but one sun in tlie firma- 
jment. and there can be but one king in a kingdom. So saith Christ, &c. 

* We have, saith Cyprian, no such notions as many philosophers have, but we are 
philosophers in our deeds ; we do not speak great things, but we do great things in our 
iivea. 



526 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. YIII. 32-34. 

and humble spirit, to revive the spirit of the humble, and to revive 
the heart of the contrite ones.'' The highest heavens and the lowest 
hearts are the habitations wherein the Holy One delights to dwell Now 
this phrase, ' I will dwell with the humble,' takes in several things : 
1. It includes God's overlooking* the humble. 2. It takes in God's assist- 
ing and strengthening of the humble. 3. It takes in God's protection ; 
I will dwell with the humble, that is, I will protect him and secure 
him, Job xxii. 29. 4. It takes in God's sympathizing with the humble. 
5. It takes in God's appl)ang all suitable good to the humble, Isa. 
Ivii. 18, and Ixiii. 9. 6. It takes in God's ruling and overruling the 
heart and the affections of the humble. 7. It takes in God's teaching 
and learning of the humble. But, 8, and lastly, It includes and takes 
in a clearer, a fuller, and a larger manifestation and communication 
of God to humble souls, Ps. x. 17, and xxv. 9. Ah ! saith God, I will 
dwell with the humble ; that is, I will more richly, more abundantly, 
and more gloriously manifest and make known my grace and glory, my 
goodness and sweetness, my loving-kindness and tenderness, to humble 
souls. Now tell me, humble souls, will not God's dwelling thus with 
you contribute very much to the strengthening and maintaining of 
jour assurance ? James iv. 6, * But he giveth more grace : wherefore he 
saith, God resisteth the proud' (or as the Greek word emphatically 
.signifies, avrndagerai, he sets himself in battle array against the proud), 
' but giveth grace to the humble.' Humility is both a grace, and a 
vessel to receive grace. God pours in grace into the humble souls, as 
men pour liquor into an empty vessel And verily, the more grace you 
have, the more will your assurance be strengthened and maintained. 
Well ! remember this, the humble man's mercies are the sweetest mer- 
cies, the greatest mercies, the most growing and thriving mercies, the 
most blessed and sanctified mercies, and the most lasting and abiding 
mercies. Therefore, as yotr would have your assurance strengthened 
and maintained, walk humbly with your God ; I say again, walk hum- 
bly, walk humbly with your God, and you shall wear the crown of 
assurance to your grave. 

Seventhly, If you would keep and maintain your assurance, then take 
heed and watch a,gainM those very 'particular sins by which other 
saints have lost tJieir assurance. Take heed of carnal confidence and 
security. David lost his assurance by not guarding his heart against 
those evils, Ps. xxx. 6, 7. Again, take heed of a light, slight, careless, 
and negligent spirit in holy and spiritual things. The spouse in the 
Canticles lost her assurance, and her sweet communion with Christ, by 
her slightness of spirit. Cant. v. 2, 3, 6, compared. Again, take heed 
of a stout and unyielding spirit under the afflicting hand of God ; this 
made God hide his face from them, Isa. Ivii. 17. In a word, take heed 
of tasting of forbidden fruit, remembering what Adam lost by a taste. 

Eighthly, If you would maintain and keep your assurance, then fre- 
quently and seriously consider of the wonderful difficulty of recover- 
ing assurance when it is lost. Oh ! the sighs, the groans, the complaints, 
the prayers, the tears, the heart-renting, the soul-bleeding that the 

^ niT^DB'l, low of spirit, nvnn?, to quicken or make to live the spirit of humble 
ones, Isa. xli. 10. 

• ' Looking over,' = superintending. — G. 



■Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on earth. 627 

recovery of thy lost assurance will cost. The gaining of assurance at 
first cost thee dear, but the regaining of it, if thou shouldst be so un- 
happy as to lose it, will put thee to more pains and charge. Of the 
two, it is easier to keep assurance now thou hast it, than to recover it 
when thou hast lost it. It is easier to keep the house in reparations, 
than when it is fallen to build it up.^ 

Ninthly, and lastly. Consider solemnly the sad and wofvl evils and 
inconveniences that will certainly follow upon the loss of your assur- 
ance!^ I will only touch upon a few. 

(1.) None of the precious things of Christ will be so sweet to thee as 
formerly they have been. 

(2.) You will neither be so fervent in duty, nor so frequent in duty, 
nor so abundant in duty, nor so spiritual in duty, nor so lively in duty, 
nor so cheerful in duty, as formerly you have been. 

(3.) Afflictions will sooner sink you, temptations will sooner over- 
come you, oppositions will sooner discourage you. 

(4.) Your mercies will be bitter, your life a burden, and death a 
terror to you ; you will be weary of living, and yet afraid of dying, &c. 

Now, the second question is this : Suppose souls have not been so careful 
to keep and maintain their assurance as they should have been, but 
upon one account or another have left that blessed assurance that once 
they had ; how may such sad souls be supported and kept from faint- 
ing, sinking, and languishing under the loss of assurance ? 

To this question I shall give these following answers : 

First, Souls that have lost that sweet assurance that once they had, 
may be supported and kept from fainting and sinking, hy considering, 
that though they have lost their assurance, yet they have not lost their 
son^hip; for once sons and always sons. You are sons, though dejected 
sons ; you are sons, though comfortless sons ; you are sons, though 
mourning sons, Rom. viii. 15-17. Once children, and always children; 
once heirs, and always heirs ; once beloved, and always beloved ; once 
happy, and always happy •? 2 Sam. xxiii. 5, ' Although my house be 
not so with God ; yet he hath made with me an everlasting covenant, 
ordered in all things, and sure : for this is all my salvation, and all my 
desires, although he make it not to grow.' Well, says David, though 
neither myself, nor my house, have been so exact and perfect in our 
walkings before God as we should, but we have broken our covenants 
with him, and dealt unworthily by him, and turned our backs upon 
him, yet he hath made with me an everlasting covenant, he hath 
engaged himself to an everlasting covenant, that he will be my Father, 
and that I shall be his son. And this is my salvation and everlasting 
ground of consolation and supportation to my soul. 

The second support is this. Consider, that though your comfort, joy, 
and peace, doth depend much upon your assurance, yet your eternal 

' A man may easier make a seeing eye blind than a blind to see ; a man may soon 
put an instrument out of tune, but not soon put it in again ; a man is easily borne down 
the stream, but cannot swim so easily up the stream, &c. 

* How can the bird fly without wings, and the wheels go without oil, and the workman 
work without hands, and the painter paint without eyes ? &c. 

» Ps. Ixxxix. 30-32, 84 ; John xiii. 6 ; Jer. xxxi. 8. 



528 BEAVEN ON EARTIL [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

happiness and blessedness doth not depend upon your assurance. If 
it did, you might be happy and miserable in a day, ay, in an hour. 
Your happiness lies in your union with God, in your communion with 
God, in your interest in God, and not in your seeing and knowing 
your interest; your joy and comfort lies in your seeing and knowing 
your interest in God, but your everlasting happiness lies in your being 
interested in God. The welfare and happiness of the child lies 
in the interest that he hath in his father, but the joy and comfort 
of the child lies in his seeing, in his knowing of his interest in his 
father. It is so between the Lord and believers : Ps. cxliv. 15, 'Happy 
be the people that be in such a case ; yea, happy is that people whose 
God is the Lord.' Among the philosophers there were two hundred 
and eighty opinions concerning happiness, some affirming happiness to 
lie in one thing, some in another. Ah ! but by the Spirit and word we 
are taught that happiness lies in our oneness with God, in our nearness 
and dearness to God, and in our conformity to God, &c.' Mark, the 
Scripture pronounces him happy, whose hope is in God, though he 
want assurance : Ps. cxlvi. 5, ' Happy is he that hath the God of Jacob 
for his help, whose hope is in the Lord his God.' Again, he is happy 
that trusteth in the Lord, though for the present he want assurance : 
Prov. xvi. 20, ' And whoso trusteth in the Lord, happy is he.' Again, be 
is happy that feareth the Lord, that hath set up God as the object of 
his fear, though he want assurance of the love of God : Prov. xxviii, 
14, ' Happy is the man that feareth always ;' that fears to offend, that 
fears to disobey, that fears to rebel, &c. Again, he is happy that 
believes in Christ, that rests and stays upon Christ, as the Scriptures 
everywhere testify, though he may want assurance. 

Happiness lies not in any transient act of the Spirit, as assurance is, 
but in the more permanent and lasting acts of the Spirit. The philo- 
sopher could say, * That he was never a happy man that might after- 
wards become miserable.' If a man's eternal happiness did lie in the 
assurance of his happiness, then might a man be crowned with Xerxes's 
steersman in the morning, and beheaded with him in the evening of 
the same day. 

But this is the believer's blessedness, that his condition is always good, 
though he doth not always see it to be good ; that his state is always 
safe, though it be not always comfortable.* 

The third support to keep those precious souls frbm fainting and 
sinking that have lost that sweet assurance that once they had, is to 
consider that though their loss be the greatest and saddest loss that 
could befall them, yet it is a recoverable loss, it is a loss that may be 
recovered, as the scriptures in the margin do clearly evidenced And 

^ Nemo aliorum aensu miser ett, ted suo. — Salvian, de Onb. Dei, lib. i. A godly man's 
happiness or misery is not to be judged by the world's sense or feeling, bxit his own. 

* To make up happiness, these things must concur : first, it must be a convenient 
good, a suitable good to our natures ; secondly, it must be an excellent good, a good that 
hath worth and excellency in it ; thirdly, it must be a sufficient good ; a few scrapings of 
gold will not make a man rich, &c. ; fourthly, it must be a permanent good. It is per- 
manency that sets the greatest price, and hath the greatest influence, into our happiness 
and felicity. 

» Ps. Ixxi. 20, 21, and xlii. 6, 7, 8 ; Isa. liv. 7, 8 ; Micah vii. 18, 19 ; Cant, iii 4 ; Ts. 
Izzxiv. 11 J &c. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on eaeth. 529 

doth not this age, as well as former, furnish us with many instances of 
this kind ?^ Doubtless many there are among the precious sons and 
daughters of Zion that have lost this pearl of price, and after waiting, 
weeping, and wrestling, have found it again ; therefore be not discouraged, 
O sighing, losing souls ! In the loss of temporals, it is a great support 
to men's spirits that their loss may be made up, and why should it not 
be so in spirituals also? 

The fourth support to keep tlieir hearts from sinking and breaking 
that have lost that sweet assurance that once they had, is, seriously to 
consider that your loss is no greater, nor no sadder, than what the 
Twblest and the choicest saints have sustained, as you may see by com- 
paring the scriptures in the margin together.^ Those that were once 
the worthies of this world, and are now triumphing in that other world 
among the princes of glory, have lost that sweet assurance and sense of 
divine love and favour that ouce they enjoyed; therefore let not your 
spirits faint and fail. In temporal trials it is a comfort and a support 
to have companions with us ; and why should it not much more be so in 
spirituals ? Acts xvi. 

The Jifth support to bear up their spirits that have lost that sweet 
assurance that once they had, is for them to remember, and seriously 
mind, that though they have lost assurance, yet they have not lost the 
blessed breathings and sweet influences of the 8pirit upon them. Wit- 
ness their love to Christ, their longing after Christ, their fear of offending 
Christ, their care to please Christ, their high esteem of Christ, and their 
mourning for the dishonours that by themselves or others are done to 
Christ, &c.^ A man may enjoy the warmth, heat, and influence of the 
sun, when he hath lost the sight of the sun. David had lost his assur- 
ance, he had lost the sight of the sun ; and yet he enjoyed the warmth 
and influences of it upon his heart, as is evident in Psalm li. 

Though thy sun, Christian, be set in a cloud, yet it will rise again, 
and in the interim thou hast and dost enjoy the warmth and influences 
of the sun ; therefore sorrow not, mourn not, as one without hope. 
Those warm influences that the Sun of righteousness hath now upon thy 
heart, are infallible evidences that he will shine forth and smile upon 
thee as in the days of old ; therefore let thy bow still abide in strength, 
Ps. xlii. 5, 7, 8, 11. 

The sixth support to keep their hearts from fainting and sinking that 
have lost that sweet assurance that once they had, is seriously to consider, 
that it will be but as a day, but as a short day, before the loss of thy 
assurance shall be iniade up with a more clear, full, perfect, and com- 
plete enjoyrfient of God. Ere long, O mourning soul, thy sun shall rise 
and never set, thy joy and comfort shall be always fresh and green ; 
God shall comfort thee on every side, it shall be night with thee no 
more, thou shalt be always in the bosom of God, Isa. Ivii. 18-20. Ps. 
Ixxi. 20, 21, 'Thou which hast shewed me great and sore troubles shalt 

1 Glover, and many others, yea, a cloud of witnesses, might be found to testify this 
truth. [Glover : Clarke, as before. — G.] 

2 Ps. XXX. 6, 7, and li. 12 ; Job xxiii. 8, Q ; Isa. viii. 17. 

< « Cant. iii. 6 ; Micah. vii. 7-9, compared, Isa. viii. 17, 1. 10. 

VOL. II. L 1 



530 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

quicken me again, and shalt bring me up again from the depth of the 
earth. Thou shalt increase my greatness, and comfort me on every 
side.' The day is at hand, O perplexed soul, when thou shalt have 
smiles without frowns, light without- darkness, day without night, wine 
Avithout water, sweet without bitter, and joy without sorrow. 

The year of jubilee is at band. Thou now sowest in tears, thou 
shalt shortly reap in joy ; yea, ' everlasting joy shall be upon thy head,' 
and ' sorrow and sighing shall flee away,' therefore faint not.' 

The third question is this, viz., What means must souls use to recover 
assurance when it is lost ? 

I shall give a few short answers to this question, and so draw to a 
close. 

First, If thou wouldst recover assurance, then thou must labour 
diligently to find out that sin, that Achan, that hath robbed thee of 
thy wedge of gold, of thy assurance.^ Surely it is not for infirmities, 
but enormities, that God hath put out thy candle, and caused thy sun 
to set at noon. Surely thou hast been feeding, I say not tasting, of 
forbidden fruit, that God hath stripped thee of thy robes, and taken the 
crown from off thy head, and turned thee out of paradise. But this i.s 
not all. 

Therefore, in the second place, weep much, mourn much, over the 
Achan, over those wickednesses that have turned thy day into night, 
thy rejoicing into sighing, &c. David doth thus in Psalm li., and 
God takes him up from his knees, and restores to him ' the joy of his 
salvation.' Though God be displeased with your sins, yet he is well- 
pleased with your tears.' The promise is, that he will ' revive the spirit 
of the contrite,' Isa. Ivii. 15. It is said of Adam that he turned his 
face towards the garden of Eden, and from his heart lamented his fall. 
Ah ! losing souls, turn your face towards heaven, and from your hearts 
lament your fall, lament your loss. Nothing puts God to it like peni- 
tent tears. No sooner doth Ephraim weep over his sins, but the bowels 
of God are stirring towards him, and God cannot hold but he must pro- 
claim to the world that mourning Ephraim, bemoaning Ephraim, is his 
dear son, his pleasant child, and that he will ' surely have mercy on 
him ; or, as the Hebrew hath it, Rahhem arahhamenu, ' I will have 
mercy, have mercy on him,' or, * I will abundantly have mercy on him,'* 
Jer. xxxi. 18-20. When our hearts are set to weep over our sins, God 
will so act in ways of love towards us, that it shall not be long night 
with our souls. God will never suffer them to be drowned in sorrow 
that are set upon drowning their sins in penitential tears. The Jews 

* Lev, XXV. ; Ps. cxxix. 5 ; Isa. xxxv. 2. 

» Austin eaith, Humanvm est peccare, diabolicum pergeverare, et angelicum resurgere, it 
is a human thing to fall into sin, a devilish to persevere therein, aod an angelical or 
supernatural to rise from it. 

' Rev. ii. 4. 6. When ancient Rome was heathenish, if the malefactor brought to be 
whipped fell upon his knees at his feet whom he had offended, it was held a sin if he 
suffered him to be whipped. 

* It is an excellent expression of Basil, It grieves, it irks, it is tedious to our most 
munificent, great, glorious King. If we ask anything little of him, he would have us 
ask great things of him. 



Rom. VIIL 32-34.] heaven on earth. 531 

have a saying, that since the destruction of Jerusalem, the door of 
prayers hath been shut ; but the door of tears was never shut, saith one. 
God hath by promise engaged himself that those that ' sow in tears 
shall reap in joy,' Ps. cxxvi. 5. The tears of the saints have such a kind 
of omnipotency in them, that God himself cannot withstand them : 
2 Kings XX. 5, ' I have seen thy tears, behold, I will heal thee ; on the 
third day thou shalt go up unto the house of the Lord.'* 

Thirdly, If you would recover assurance, then sit not down dis- 
couraged, hut he up and doing. Remember what a pearl of price thou 
hast lost, and ' repent and do thy first works,' Rev. ii. 4, 5. Fall close 
to the good old work of believing, meditating, examining, praying, 
hearing, mourning, &c.* Begin the world again, and set afresh upon 
those very ways by which at first thou didst get assurance ; fall upon 
family duties, apply thyself to public ordinances, be much in closet ser- 
vices ; stir up every gift that is in thee, stir up every grace that is in 
thee, stir up all the life that is in thee, and never leave blowing till 
thou hast bio wed thy little spark into a flame ; never leave turning 
thy penny, till thou hast turned thy penny into a pound; never leave 
improving thy mite, till thy mite be turned into a million. God will 
be found in the use of means, and he will restore our lost mercies in the 
use of means, Ps. xxii. 26. But this is not all. 

Therefore, in the fourth place, wait patiently upon the Lord. David 
did so, and at length the Lord brought him out of a horrible pit, or out 
of a pit of noise and confusion, and set his feet upon a rock, and estab- 
lished his goings, and put a new song of praise into his mouth, Ps. xl. 
1-3. God never hath, nor never will fail the waiting soul. Though 
God loves to try the patience of his children, yet he doth not love to 
tire out the patience of his children ; therefore he will not contend for 
ever, neither will he be always wroth, lest the spirits of his people should 
fail, Isa. Ivii. 16-19. Assurance is a jewel worth waiting for. It is a pearl 
that God gives to none but such as have waited long at mercy's door. It 
is a crown that every one must win by patient waiting before he can 
wear. God doth not think the greatest mercies too good for waiting souls, 
though he knows the least mercy is too good for impatient souls. .The 
breasts of the promises lie fair and open to waiting souls, Isa. xxx. 18, 
and Ixiv. 4, and xlix. 23. The waiting soul shall have anything of God, 
but the froward and impatient soul gets nothing of God but frowns, 
and blows, and wounds, and broken bones. Sad souls should do well 
to make that text their bosom companion, John xiv. 18, ' I will not 
leave you comfortless,' or orphans, ogpawu^, ' J will come to you.' And 
that Heb. x. 36, 37, * For ye have need of patience, that after ye have 
done the will of God, ye might receive the promise. For yet a little 
while' (as it is in the Greek), ' and he that shall come will come, and 
will not tarry.' 

Fifthly and lastly, If you would recover assurance, then take heed of 
refusing comforts when God hrings them to your door ; take heed of 

1 Ps. xxxix. 12 ; Job xvi. 20 ; Mark ix. 24, 25, &c. 

* A man that hath been recovered formerly out of such or such a disease, if be be 
relapsed, he will to the same means again, he will apply the same remedies again ; this 
did once do me good, I will try it again. 



532 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34. 

throwing gospel cordials agavnst the wall. This was Asaph's sin : 'My 
soul refused to be comforted.'^ God comes and offers love to the soul, 
and the soul refuses it ; God comes and spreads the promises of con- 
solation before the soul, and the soul refuses to look upon them ; God 
comes and makes tenders of the riches of grace, and the soul refuses to 
accept of them. Sometimes the hand, the man that brings the cordial, 
is not liked, and therefore men refuse it. Well ! remember this : when 
gold is offered, men care not how great or how base he is that offers 
it. Neither should we care by whom the cordials and consolations 
of the gospel are offered to us, whether they are offered by the hand 
of Isaiah, a prophet of the blood-royal, as some think, or by Amos, 
from amongst the herdsmen of Tekoa. If the sweetmeats of heaven 
are set before thee, it is thy wisdom and thy duty to taste of them, 
and to feed upon them, without stumbling at the hand that presents 
them. 

Now for a close I shall make a few short uses of what hath been said, 
and so conclude, 

[1.] The first use. You that have as,surance, be thankful for it. It 
is a jewel more worth than heaven and earth ; therefore be thankful. 
Assurance is a mercy nobly-descended ; it is from above. Man is not 
bom with it in his heart, as he is with a tongue in his mouth, James i. 
17. Assurance is a peculiar mercy ; it is a flower of paradise that God 
sticks only in his children's bosoms. Assurance is a mercy-sweetening 
mercy ; it is a mercy that puts the garland upon all our mercies. 
Assurance makes every bitter sweet, and every sweet more sweet. He 
enjoys little that wants it, he wants nothing that enjoys it ; therefore 
be you thankful that have and do find the sweetness of it. 

If Philip rejoiced that Alexander was born in the days of Aristotle, 
how much more cause have you to rejoice, upon whose heads the Lord 
hath put the crown of assurance, a crown of more worth and weight 
than all princes' crowns in the world.* 

[2.] The second use. If God hath given you assurance, then do not 
envy the outward felicity and happiness of the men of the world, Ps. 
xxxvii. 17, 18 ; Prov. xxiii. 17. Alas !^ what are mountains of dust to 
mountains of gold ? what are the stones of the street to rocks of pearl ? 
what are crowns of thorns to crowns of gold, &c. ? No more are all 
the treasures, honours, pleasures, and favours of this world to assurance. 
The envious man hath so many tortures as the envied hath praisers.* 
It is the justice of envy to kill and torment the envious. The men of 
the world are real objects of pity, but not of envy. Who envies the 
prisoner at the bar ? Who envies the malefactor that is going to execu- 
tion ? Who envies the dead man that is going to his grave ? God hath 

' Ambrose saith, If I would offer thee gold to-day, thou wouldst not say, I will come 
to-morrow. And wilt thou lightly and slightly put God off when ho offers peace and 
comfort to thy soul ? 

* Plato was very thankful that God made him a man, and not a woman ; a Grecian 
and not a barbarian ; a scholar to Socrates, and not to any other philosopher. Oh what 
cause then have you to be thankful for assurance "? 

3 See Glossary under ' Alas.* — G. 

* Socrates wished that envious men had more eyes and more ears than others, that 
they might be more tormented than others, by beholding others' happiness. 



Rom. VIII. 32-34.] heaven on eauth. 533 

done more for thee by giving thee assurance than if he had given thee 
aU the world, yea, ten thousand worlds. 

When the Spanish ambassador boasted that his master was king of 
such a place, and of such a place, and of such a place, &c., the French 
ambassador answered, My master is king of France, king of France, 
king of France ; signifying thereby that France was of as much worth 
or more worth, than all the kingdoms under the power of the king of 
Spain. Ah, Christians ! when the men of the world shall cry out, Oh, 
their riches! oh, their honours! oh, their preferments! &c., you may 
well cry out, Oh, assurance, assurance, assurance! &c. ; there being more 
real worth and glory in that than is to be found in all the wealth and 
glory of the world ; therefore do not envy the outward prosperity and 
felicity of worldly men, &c. 

[3.] The third use. If God hath given you assurance, then give no 
vjay to slavish fears. Fear not the scorn and reproaches of men, fear 
not wants. God will not deny him a crust to whom he hath given a 
Christ ; he will not deny him a crumb upon whom he hath bestowed 
a crown ; he will not deny him a less mercy upon whom he hath be- 
stowed assurance, which is the prince of mercies. Fear not death, for 
why shouldst thou fear death, that hast assurance of a better life 1 ^ 

[4.] The fourth use. If God hath given you a well-grounded as- 
surance of your everlasting happiness and blessedness, then question 
his love no raore. God doth not love to have his love at every turn 
called in question by those that he hath once assured of his love ; he 
doth expect, that as no sin of ours doth make any substantial alteration 
in his affections to us, so none, no, not his sharpest dispensations, should 
make any alteration in our thoughts and affections towards him, Ps. 
Ixxxix. 30-35 ; Jer. xxxi. 3 ; Eccles. ix. 8. 

[5.] Ihe fifth use. If God hath given you assurance, then live holUy, 
live angelically, keep your garments pure and white, walk with an 
even foot, be shining lights, Rev. iii. 4 ; Mat. v. 16. Your happiness 
here is your holiness, and in heaven your highest happiness will be 
your perfect holiness. Holiness differs nothing from happiness, but 
in name. Holiness is happiness in the bud, and happiness is holiness at 
the full. Happiness is nothing but the quintessence of holiness. The 
more holy any man is, the more the Lord loves him, John xiv. 21-23.* 

Augustine doth excellently observe, in his tract on John i. 14, ' that 
God loved the humanity of Christ more than any man, because he was 
fuller of grace and truth than any man.' The philosopher could say, 
' that God was but an empty name without virtue.' So are all our 
professions without holiness.^ Holiness is the very marrow and quintes- 
sence of aU rehgion. Holiness is God stamped and printed upon the 

* Saul had but fivepence to give the seer ; the seer after much good cheer gives him 
freely the kingdom, 1 Sam. ix. 8, and x. 1. So God deals with his. 

* Vive ut vivas, live, that thou mayest live. Live in such sort, saith Periander, king 
of Corinth, that thou mayest have honour by thy life, and that after thy death men may 
account thee happy. [Diog. Laert., sub rwmine. — G.] 

' Ille non est bonus qui non vult esse nelior. The loose walking of many Christiana 
was, as Salvian complains, made by the pagans the reproach of Christ himself, saying, 
Jf Christ had taught holy doctrine, surely his followers had led better lives. [Salvian, 
D. G,, lib. iv.— G.] 



534 HEAVEN ON EARTH. [ROM. VIII. 32-34-. 

soul ; it is Christ formed in the heart ; it is our light, our life, our 
beauty, our glory, our joy, our crown, our heaven, our all. The holy 
soul is happy in life, and blessed in death, and shall be transeendently 
glorious in the morning of the resurrection, when Christ shall say, 
Lo, here am I, and my holy ones, who are my joy ; Lo, here am I, and 
my holy ones, who are my crown ; and therefore, upon the heads of 
these holy ones will I set an immortal crown. Even so, Amen ! Lord 
Jesus. 
