u 


tihvavy  of  trhe  trheolo^icd  ^tminavy 

PRINCETON  •  NEW  JERSEY 
PRESENTED  BY 

John  Stuart  Connin^^,  D.D. 

BM  500  .R6  1918  v. 3-4 
Talmud. 

Nev^  edition  of  the 
Babylonian  Talmud 


NEW    EDITION 


BABYLONIAN  TALMUD 


©riGinal  Uejt,  36&iteC>,  Corrected,  jformulateC),  ant) 
"Cranslatet)  into  JEngltsb 


BY 

MICHAEL    L.   RODKINSON 

SECOND  EDITION— REVISED  AND  ENLARGED 

SECTION  MOED  (FESTIVALS) 
TRACTS   SHEKALIM  AND   ROSH   HASHANA 

HEBREW    AND    ENGLISH 


Volume  IV. 


Boston 

THE  TALMUD  SOCIETY 

1918 


EXPLANATORY   REMARKS. 

In  our  translation  we  adopted  these  principles  : 

1.  Tenan  of  the  original — We  have  learned  in  a  Mishna  ;  Tania — We  have 
learned  in  a  Boraitha  ;    Itemar — It  was  taught. 

2.  Questions  are  indicated  by  the  interrogation  point,  and  are  immediately 
followed  by  the  answers,  without  being  so  marked. 

3.  When  in  the  original  there  occur  two  statements  separated  by  the  phrase, 
Lishna  achrcna  or  Wa'ibayiih  Aetna  (literally,  "otherwise  interpreted"),  we  translate 
only  the  second. 

4.  As  the  pages  of  the  original  are  indicated  in  our  new  Hebrew  edition,  it  is  not 
deemed  necessary  to  mark  them  in  the  English  edition,  this  being  only  a  translation 
from  the  latter. 


Copyright,  1896,  by 
MICHAEL  L.   RODKINSON. 


Copyright  1916,  by 
NEW  TALMUD  PUBLISHING  SOCIETY 


TO 

ERASMES  GEST,  ESQ. 

OF    CINCINNATI,    OHIO 
MOST    RESPECTFULLY    DEDICATED    BY    THE 

EDITOR 


TRACT  SHEKALIM. 


CONTENTS  OF  VOLUME  IV. 

HEBREW   AND    ENGLISH 


ENGLISH. 
TRACT   SHEKALIM. 

PAGE 

Preface, xi-xii 

Synopsis  of  Subjects, xiii-xviii 

CHAPTER   I. 

Of  the  Duties  of  Court  in  the  Month  of  Adar — 
Payment  of  Poll  Duties  in  the  Whole  Region  of 
Israel, .        .        i-6 

CHAPTER  II. 

The  Exchange  of  Coins  for  Shekalim — The  Provisions 
FOR  THE  Saving  of  Money  for  Different  Offerings 
and  the  Use  of  the  Remainders,       .        .        .        .7-11 

CHAPTER   III. 

Periods    at    which    Moneys    were    Drawn    from    the 

Treasury,  and  the  Ceremonies  Thereat,  .        .     12-15 

CHAPTER   IV. 

Purposes  for  which  Moneys  were  Drawn,  and  What 
was  Done  with  their  Remainders  and  That  of 
Other  Offerings,  .....     16-19 

CHAPTER   V. 

The  Main  Offices,  their  Officers,  their  Duties,  Seals, 

and  Chambers,         ........     20-24 

vii 


viii  CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER   VI. 

PAGE 

The  Thirteen  Covered  Chests  and  Other  Parapher- 
nalia, AND  Religious  Ceremonies  adopted  with 
THE  Number  Thirteen, 25-28 

CHAPTER  VII. 

Moneys  found  between  the  Chests,  and  Cattle  for 
Offerings  found  in  the  Vicinity  of  the  City  of 
Jerusalem, 29-32 

CHAPTER  VIII. 

Spittle,   Utensils,   and    Submerging    of    the    Defiled 

Sacrifices, 33-36 


TRACT   ROSH    HASHANA. 

Opinions  of  Scholars  of  this  Entire  Work,         .        .        v-xi 

Partial  List  of  Subscribers, xi-xii 

A  Few  Words  to  the  English  Reader,  .        .         xiii-xviii 

Introduction  to  this  Tract,  ....  xix-xxii 

Synopsis  of  Subjects  of  this  Tract,       .        .        .     xxiii-xxviii 

CHAPTER   I. 

Of  the   Four    New  Year's  Days  as  kept   during  the 

Period  of  the  Second  Temple,  ....      1-36 

CHAPTER   II. 

The   Observers  of  the   New  Moon    before   the   High 

Court  in  the  City  of  Jerusalem,      ....    37-44 

CHAPTER  III. 

Observing  the  Moon  by  the  High  Court  Itself — The 
Blowing  of  the  Cornet  on  the  New  Year's  and 
Jubilee  Days, 45-52 

CHAPTER   IV. 

When  New  Year's  Day  Fell   on  Sabbath — The  Order 

OF  Benediction  and  Prayers  on  the  Same,      .        .     53-66 


CONTENTS.  tx 

THE    HEBREW   PART. 
{Order  of  pages,  from  right  to  left.) 

TRACT    SHEKALIM. 

jir^^n  p*lC  ,11^^^  in^^n-THE  First  of  Adar,  Chap- 

TER    I., 1-3 

^^"V   DID  tU^L^^   TD'^liD— The   Coins    of    Shekalim 

MAY  BE  Exchanged  for  Darkons,  Chapter  H.,  .        4-5 

^^^^^    DID    ,D''p*iD    nCi^^lL^D  —  At   Three   Periods, 

Chapter  HI., 6-7 

^;;''::i'-i  jDId  ,?n3  ]^^^v  vn  hd  nDnnn-THE 

Severed   (Shekalim):   What   was    Done    with    It?, 

Chapter  IV., 8-10 

''^'''On    jDID   rpiDDH    ]n    1^^— The   Following   are 

the  Names  of  the  Officers,  Chapter  V.,  .        .     11-13 

^^^  p"lD   rHI^lDIC'   *lt^y    H'k!;^::^— Thirteen  Chests, 

Chapter  VI., 14-16 

^V^^Z'   (D*1D   ,rD   l^^liDJS^   nii^D— Moneys   found   Be- 
tween, Chapter  VII., 17-18 

•lyj^^   p'HD   /rplin    v'D — -Al^   "^"^   Spittle,  Chapter 

VIII., 19-20 


TRACT   ROSH    HASHANA. 

(D^nnD  'J  ni)  p^pnc:'?  uyzrh  nnine-A  cor. 

RiDOR  Leading  to  the   Palace  (containing  Three 
Entrances).* 
PJ^Ji^")    nnD"^^^^"^  Entrance, 


l-Vll 


*  By  these  three  entrances  the  editor  illustrates  his  reasons  for  this  enterprise 
and  his  method  of  correcting  and  translating  the  original.  This  has  not  been  trans- 
lated into  English,  for  the  reason  that  it  would  be  of  but  little  interest  to  the  English 
reader  who  does  not  understand  the  Hebrew  ;  it  is,  however,  hoped  that  the  reader 
of  Hebrew  will  find  great  interest  in  the  matter. 


X  CONTENTS. 

^j^  nn5 — Second  Entrance,    .        .        ;                .  vii-xiv 

•jjf^i^jrr  ^^Q — Third  Entrance,         ....  xiv-xix 

n'pnn    "'Hin^D — letters  of  approval,    .        .        .  xix-xxH 

**\)iO  5^1DD — Brief  Introduction,      ....  xxiii-xxvi 

]W^'^  pns  ,Dn  a^'Hi^  "•CTi^n  nyDi«-FouR  new 

Year's  Days,  Chapter  I., 4-24 

'':i2;  piB  ^n)^  pT^D  |r«  u^-^^  they  did  not 

Know  Him,  Chapter  II,, 24-28 

^^">b\:;  P"iD  ,ri  rT'a  im^^i— i^  the  beth  din  saw 

It,  Chapter  III., 28-32 

•'^•'Dn  p"iD  rHjii^^n  t^^i  b\2;  y\^  d^-the  festival 

OF  THE  New  Year,  Chapter  IV.,         ....     33-39 


PREFACE    TO   TRACT   SHEKALIM. 

Among  the  treatises  contained  in  the  Section  Moed  of  the 
Babylonian  Talmud  is  to  be  found  that  of  Shekalim,  which  con- 
sists, however,  only  of  Mishnas,  the  Babylonian  Talmud  having 
no  Gemara.  The  Palestinian  Talmud  contains  aGemara  for  this 
tract  also,  and  there  is  an  additional  commentary  by  Maimonides. 
While  we  are  translating  only  the  Babylonian  Talmud,  we 
would  not  care  to  omit  Shekalim,  which  is  of  peculiar  histori- 
cal value  and  may  prove  quite  interesting  to  the  reader.  But 
the  Mishna,  without  any  explanation  whatever,  would  naturally 
seem  obscure,  and  in  some  instances  would  be  absolutely  incom- 
prehensible;  and,  the  Gemara  of  the  Palestinian  Talmud,  as 
well  as  the  commentary  of  Maimonides,  consisting  of  very  com- 
plicated and  intricate  series  of  arguments,  inferences,  and  expla- 
nations, which  would  be  not  only  diflficult  of  translation  but  also 
immaterial  to  the  subject,  the  insertion  of  which  would  be  a 
deviation  from  our  method,  and  unnecessary,  as  would  explana- 
tions of  Barthanora,  Tosphath-yomtabh,  etc.,  we  were  forced 
to  provide  the  text  with  a  commentary  of  our  own,  drawn  from 
the  most  authentic  sources.  This,  we  trust,  will  serve  to  eluci- 
date any  obscure  passages  not  quite  comprehensible  to  the  gen- 
eral reader.  Accordingly,  every  sentence  or  word  in  the  Mishna 
requiring  an  explanation  is  distinguished  by  a  number  or  an 
asterisk,  and  has  a  corresponding  reference  in  the  commentary 
printed  below  the  text.  We  may  add  that,  for  our  personal 
satisfaction  and  to  guard  against  any  possible  errors,  we  have 
given  this  tract  for  revision  to  some  noted  Russian  scholars  who 
are  competent  to  judge  upon  it,  and  they  find  it  very  intelligible. 

As  stated  above,  we  have  taken  our  commentary  from  the 
most  authentic  sources  we  could  find.  We  do  not,  therefore, 
solicit  leniency  on  the  part  of  worthy  critics,  but  ask  them  to 
restrain  their  criticisms  until  they  shall  have  carefully  studied  the 
commentaries  mentioned,  as  well  as  ^«r  commentary,  with  proper 
consideration ;  for  ours  is  derived  from  the  Palestinian  Talmud, 
Maimonides,  etc.     Conscientious  critics  will  do  so  without  our 


xii  PREFACE   TO   TRACT   SHEKALIM. 

solicitation ;  and  as  for  others,  who  are  ready  to  criticise  every- 
thing impromptu  as  soon  as  it  leaves  our  pen,  such  a  request 
would  be  of  no  avail.  We  nevertheless  will  be  grateful  to  any 
one  who  will  call  our  attention  to  things  which  are  not  compre- 
hensible in  the  commentary,  this  being  our  first  venture  of  the 
kind,  more  especially  as  we  think  we  shall  be  compelled  to  do  the 
same  with  other  Mishnayoths  to  which  the  Babylonian  Talmud 
has  no  Gemara.  A  separate  introduction  to  Tract  Shekalim  we 
think  unnecessary,  as  the  contents  of  this  speaks  for  itself.  We 
nevertheless  will  return  to  this  when  we  come  to  Tract  Midoth 
(Measures). 

In  compliance  with  our  promise  in  our  prospectus,  we  add  to 
this  volume  the  Hebrew  text  of  the  Tracts  Shekalim  and  Rosh 
Hashana  of  our  new  edition,  for  the  benefit  of  students  and 
scholars  who  may  desire  to  compare  the  translation  with  it. 

M.  L.  RODKINSON. 
New  York,  May,  1897. 


SYNOPSIS  OF  SUBJECTS 

OF 

VOLUME   IV.— TRACT  SHEKALIM.* 


CHAPTER    I. 


MiSHNA  a  treats  of:  What  were  the  duties  of  the  Beth  Din  in  the  month 
of  Adar  in  the  time  of  the  second  Temple.  When  the  Megillah  (Boole  of 
Esther)  was  to  be  read  in  the  fortified  cities.  For  what  purpose  messengers 
were  sent  out,  and  what  were  the  things  to  be  heralded. 

MiSHNA  b  treats  of  :  What  was  the  punishment  for  not  obeying  the  com- 
mandments of  Kelayim  in  the  former  times  and  later. 

MiSHNA  c  deals  with :  When  the  money-changers,  with  their  tables, 
began  their  work  in  the  countries  of  Judea  and  in  Jerusalem.  The  time  for 
pledges  which  were  taken  for  not  paying  the  Shekalim.  From  what  persons 
the  pledges  were  to  be  taken.  If  a  father  might  pay  the  Shekalim  for  his 
children. 

MiSHNA  ^treats  of:  What  ordinance  Ben  Buchri  proclaimed  in  Jamnia 
in  behalf  of  the  priests,  and  what  R.  Johanan  b.  Zakkai  rejoined.  The 
defence  of  the  priests,  with  their  interpretation  of  biblical  passages,  which 
was  accepted  only  for  the  sake  of  peace. 

MiSHNA  e  treats  of:  The  voluntary  payment  of  Shekalim  from  women, 
slaves,  and  minors  being  accepted,  but  not  from  the  heathens  or  Samaritans. 
Bird-offerings  not  accepted  from  persons  affected  with  venereal  diseases  or 
from  women  after  confinement.  Sin  and  vow  offerings,  however,  were 
accepted  from  the  Samaritans.  The  vow-offerings  were  also  accepted  from 
heathens.     The  general  rule  concerning  this. 

MiSHNA  _/"  deals  with  :  The  premium  one  had  to  pay  in  addition  to  the 
half-shekel.  Who  was  obliged  to  do  so?  *The  different  opinions  of  the 
sages  and  R.  Meir.  How  much  one  had  to  pay  if  given  one  Selah  and  taking 
a  shekel  in  exchange. 

*  See  introduction  to  synopsis  in  Tract  Sabbath,  Vol.  I.,  p.  xxix.  This  tract  has 
no  Gemara.     The  synopsis  contains  the  Mishnas,  vvith  their  commentaries. 

xiii 


xiv  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

MiSHNA  ^  treats  of:  The  law  concerning  one  who  pays  for  a  poor  man, 
for  a  neighbor,  and  for  a  countryman.  Law  concerning  brothers  and  part- 
ners paying  together ;  also,  law  regarding  cattle-tithe.  How  much  was  the 
premium. 

CHAPTER   II. 

MiSHNA  a.  One  may  put  together  the  Shekalim  and  exchange  them  for 
a  gold  coin  called  Darkon.  Concerning  the  chests  which  were  given  to  the 
collectors  in  the  country  and  at  Jerusalem.  What  is  the  law  if  money  were 
stolen  or  lost  by  the  messengers  of  a  city,  when  a  portion  of  the  Shekalim 
was  already  expended  ;  what  is  the  law  if  not  expended. 

MiSHNA  b.  Concerning  the  law  when  one  gives  his  shekels  to  another  to 
pay  his  head-taxes  for  him  ;  if  he  pays  his  shekels  from  the  money  of  the 
second  tithes  or  from  the  money  of  the  fruit  of  the  Sabbatical  year.  Con- 
cerning how  he  shall  replace  it  and  use  it  for  the  same  purpose. 

MiSHNA  c.  The  law  concerning  one  who  gathered  single  coins  little  by 
little  and  said  :  "With  this  money  I  shall  pay  my  shekels."  The  different 
opinions  of  the  schools  of  Hillel  and  Shamai  in  this  matter.  Concerning  the 
same  case  whe/i  one  gathers  money  for  sin-offerings.  What  shall  be  done 
with  the  eventual  remains  of  such  money. 

MiSHNA  d.  Concerning  the  explanation  of  R.  Simeon  of  the  teachings 
of  the  school  of  Hillel.  The  discussion  of  the  former  with  R.  Jehudah.  The 
claims  of  the  latter  that  the  coins  of  the  Shekalim  were  also  changed  in  times 
and  places.     The  rejoinder  of  R.  Simeon  to  this. 

MiSHNA  e.  The  law  concerning  the  remainder  of  money  intended  for 
Shekalim  when  considered  to  be  ordinary.  Regarding  the  remainder  of  the 
tenth  part  of  an  ephah,  bird-offerings,  and  guilt-offerings  :  what  shall  be  done 
with  it.  A  rule  concerning  this  matter.  Also,  regulations  concerning  the 
remainder  of  Passover  sacrifices,  Nazarite  offerings,  the  remainder  of  moneys 
for  the  poor  in  general  and  individuals,  of  money  for  prisoners,  for  burial  of 
the  dead,  and  R.  Meir  and  R.  Nathan's  opinions  regarding  this  matter. 

CHAPTER   III. 

MiSHNA  a.  Regarding  the  appointed  periods  of  the  year  when  the  money 
was  drawn  from  the  treasury.  The  different  opinions,  concerning  this 
matter,  of  R.  Aqiba  b.  Asai,  R.  Eliezer,  and  R.  Simeon.  The  same  time 
appointed  for  cattle-tithes. 

MiSHNA  b.  Concerning  the  ceremony  of  drawing  the  money  at  all 
periods  of  the  year.  The  law  regarding  measures  of  the  boxes  in  which  the 
coins  of  the  Shekalim  were  filled,  and  the  numbers  of  the  chests  in  which 
the  money  was  drawn  from  the  boxes  for  the  expenses  of  the  Temple. 
Which  box  must  be  opened  first,  and  which  last.  What  garments  the  person 
drawing  the  money  must  wear.  How  a  man  must  stand  unblemished  before 
his  fellow-man  and  before  his  God. 

MiSHNA  c.  Concerning  the  custom  of  the  house  of  Rabban  Gamaliel, 
when  the  members  of  the  house  had  paid  their  Shekalim.    The  law  regarding 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  .    xv 

one  who  drew  money  did  not  commence  until  he  had  said  to  the  bystanders, 
"  I  will  now  draw,"  and  they  answered,  "  Draw,  draw,  draw,"  three  times. 

MiSHNA  d.  Concerning  the  covering  of  the  boxes  after  drawing  the 
money.  For  which  countries  the  drawings  were  performed  in  the  first 
period,  the  second,  and  the  third. 

CHAPTER  IV. 

MiSHNA  a.  What  was  done  with  the  money  drawn  ?  Concerning  the 
watchmen  that  were  sent  out  to  guard  the  after-growth  of  the  Sabbatical 
year,  of  which  the  Omer  and  two  loaves  were  taken  for  sacrifice.  The 
opinion  of  R.  Jose  in  this  matter,  and  what  the  rabbis  answered. 

MiSHNA  b.  Concerning  the  red  heifer,  the  goat  that  was  to  be  sent  away, 
the  strip  of  scarlet,  the  bridge  for  the  cow,  the  bridge  for  the  goat,  the  canal, 
the  city  wall,  the  towers,  and  other  necessities  of  the  city  :  all  were  paid  for 
out  of  the  Shekalim  money.    What  Abba  Saul  said. 

MiSHNA  c.  What  was  done  with  the  balance  of  the  money  left  over  in 
the  treasury.  The  discussion  of  R.  Ishmael  and  R.  Aqiba  in  this  matter. 
Some  of  the  many  things  which  are  enumerated  in  the  Palestinian  Talmud 
and  which  were  done  with  this  money.  Among  them  was  the  hiring  of 
teachers  for  priests  to  teach  them  the  laws  of  the  sacrifices, 

MiSHNA  d.  What  was  done  with  the  remainder  of  the  moneys  of  the 
chest.  The  different  opinions  of  R.  Ishmael,  R.  Aqiba,  and  R.  Hanina,  the 
assistant  chief  of  the  priests,  concerning  profit :  if  it  might  be  raised  from 
the  remaining  money  or  not,  and  of  what  money  the  gold  plates  for  the 
decorations  of  the  Holy  of  Holies  were  made.  Also,  concerning  the  benefit 
of  the  altar. 

MiSHNA  e.  What  was  done  with  the  remainder  of  the  incense  (as  the 
incense  of  the  New  Year  must  be  bought  with  the  new  Shekalim  money). 
The  sanctification  of  the  incense  on  hand  then  transferred  to  that  money, 
and  then  redeemed  with  the  money  of  the  new  revenue. 

MiSHNA /.  Concerning  the  law  when  one  devoted  his  entire  possessions 
in  honor  of  the  Lord  :  what  should  be  done  with  them.  The  discussions  of 
R.  Aqiba  and  Ben  Asai  regarding  this  matter. 

MiSHNA  J'.  Concerning  the  law  when  one  devoted  his  possessions,  and 
among  them  were  cattle,  male  and  female,  fit  for  the  altar.  The  discussions 
of  this  matter  between  R.  Eliezer  and  R.  Jehoshua,  R.  Aqiba  is  inclined 
to  the  opinion  of  R.  Eliezer,  which  seems  to  him  to  be  more  proper,  but  adds 
that  he  had  heard  that  both  opinions  were  right  according  to  circumstances. 

MiSHNA  h.  If  one  devote  his  possessions,  and  among  them  are  things 
fit  for  the  altar,  such  as  wines,  oils,  and  birds,  what  should  be  done  with 
them.     R.  Eliezer  decreed  it,  and  no  one  opposed  him. 

MiSHNA  /.  Contractors,  for  the  delivery  of  all  things  for  the  altar  and 
♦.he  improvements  of  the  Temple,  were  appointed  every  month  ;  but  if  the 


xvi  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

prices  changed  during  the  thirty  days,  the  Sanctuary  must  not  suffer  any 
injury.  Such  was  the  agreement  made  between  them.  The  illustration 
of  this. 

CHAPTER  V. 

MiSHNA  a.  Concerning  some  names  of  the  offices  and  the  heads  of  them 
in  the  Sanctuary  during  the  entire  period  when  the  second  Temple  was  in 
existence.     What  were  the  officers'  duties,  and  how  they  officiated. 

MiSHNA  (5.  Concerning  the  order  of  the  head  officers  ;  namely,  the  king, 
the  high  priest,  his  assistant,  two  catholicoses,  and  seven  chamberlains,  not 
less  than  two  officers  being  put  in  charge  of  public  moneys. 

MiSHNA  c.  Regarding  the  seals  that  were  in  the  Sanctuary,  serving  for 
the  beverages  and  meat-offerings  which  must  be  brought,  according  to  the 
Bible,  with  every  sacrifice.  Concerning  the  inscription  on  the  seals  and 
their  usage.  Ben  Azai  added  one  seal  for  the  poor  sinner.  The  names  of 
the  officers,  of  the  seal-keeper  and  the  officer  who  sells  the  above  offerings. 

MiSHNA  d.  The  date  must  be  put  on  every  seal.  The  law  regarding 
surplus  money  being  found  in  the  treasury  of  the  seal-keeper  :  to  whom  it 
belongs  ;  and  if  a  deficit,  who  must  supply  it. 

MiSHNA  e.  The  law  concerning  one  who  lost  his  seal  ;  what  must  be 
done. 

MiSHNA  f.  Concerning  the  two  chambers  in  the  Sanctuary,  of  which 
one  was  called  "  Chamber  of  Silence"  and  the  other  "  Chamber  of  Utensils." 
What  was  done  there,  during  what  time  they  were  investigated,  and  what 
was  done  with  the  presented  utensils  which  were  useless  for  the  Temple. 

CHAPTER   VI. 

MiSHNA  a.  Concerning  the  thirteen  covered  chests  and  thirteen  tables 
which  were  in  the  Sanctuary.  How  many  prostrations  took  place  in  the 
Sanctuary.  How  R.  Gamaliel  and  R.  Hanina,  assistant  chief  of  the  high 
priest,  added  one  in  the  place  where  the  ark  was  hidden. 

MiSHNA  b.  Relates  how  a  blemished  priest  who  was  engaged  in  select- 
ing and  peeling  wood  had  noticed  the  place  where  the  ark  was  hidden,  but 
before  he  had  time  to  tell  it  to  the  others  he  expired. 

MiSHNA  c.  Concerning  the  directions  where  the  prostrations  were 
made.  How  many  gates  were  in  the  Temple  :  their  names,  and  why  they 
were  so  named  ;  also,  different  opinions  of  the  sages  concerning  this. 
There  were  two  gates  which  were  nameless. 

MiSHNA  d.  Of  what  material  the  thirteen  tables  were  made,  where  they 
stood,  for  what  purpose  they  were  used.  Concerning  the  golden  table  in 
the  Temple  itself,  upon  which  the  showbreads  were  constantly  lying. 

MiSHNA  e.  Concerning  the  inscriptions  on  the  thirteen  covered  chests 
in  the  Sanctuary,  and  what  was  done  with  them.  The  different  opinions  of 
R.  Jehudah  and  the  sages  as  to  using  certain  money  put  in  some  chests. 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  xvii 

MiSHNA  /.  Concerning  the  amount  of  articles  to  be  furnished  in  pay- 
ment of  a  vow  one  made,  who  did  not  explain  how  much  he  intended  to 
give  ;  for  instance,  wood,  incense,  gold  coins,  etc.  A  rule  that  was  made 
concerning  this.     The  hides  of  all  sacrifices  belong  to  the  priest. 


CHAPTER   VII. 

MiSHNA  a.  If  money  was  found  in  between  the  differently  marked 
chests,  to  which  chest  the  money  belonged.  Concerning  this  the  rule  was : 
One  must  be  guided  by  the  proximity,  even  in  the  case  of  the  less  impor- 
tant, etc. 

MiSHNA  b.  Concerning  money  found  in  Jerusalem,  in  the  court  of  the 
Temple,  in  the  times  of  the  Festivals  and  in  the  ordinary  times. 

MiSHNA  c.  Concerning  meat  found  in  the  court  of  the  Temple,  in  the 
city,  and  any  place  where  Israelites  resided  and  where  Gentiles  and  Israel- 
ites together  resided. 

MiSHNA  d.  Concerning  cattle  found  between  Jerusalem  and  Migdal 
Eder,  and  in  the  vicinity  of  the  city  in  all  directions :  what  the  law  pre- 
scribes.    The  different  opinions  of  some  sages. 

MiSHNA  e.  Relates  how,  in  former  days,  the  finder  of  such  cattle  was 
pledged  to  bring  drink-offerings,  and  how  afterwards  the  high  court  decreed 
to  furnish  them  from  the  public  moneys. 

MiSHNAS/and  g.  R.  Simeon  named  seven  decrees  which  were  promul- 
gated by  the  high  court,  and  the  above  decree  was  one  of  them.  R.  Jehudah, 
however,  does  not  agree  on  some  points  with  him.  R.  Jose  has  also  some- 
thing to  say  about  this. 

CHAPTER  VIII. 

MiSHNA  a.  Concerning  streets  in  which  people  must  walk  during  the 
time  of  the  Festival  in  Jerusalem,  for  the  sake  of  cleanness.  The  different 
opinions,  in  this  matter,  of  R.  Meir  and  the  sages. 

MiSHNA  b.  Regarding  utensils  found  on  the  way  towards  the  plunge- 
baths  :  if  they  are  clean  or  not,  and  the  different  opinions  of  R.  Meir  and 
R.  Jose. 

MiSHNA  c.  Regarding  the  butcher-knife,  if  it  was  found  in  the  street  on 
the  14th  of  Nissan  ;  and  what  is  the  case  if  the  14th  falls  on  a  Sabbath. 

MiSHNA  d.  Concerning  where  the  curtain  of  the  Sanctuary  must  be 
submerged  if  it  become  defiled.  The  first  time  it  was  submerged  it  was 
spread  out  for  the  people  to  admire  the  beauty  of  the  work. 

MiSHNA  e.  What  Rabban  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  had  to  tell  in  the  name  of 
Simeon,  the  son  of  the  assistant  high  priest.  How  the  curtain  was  made  : 
the  great  amount  of  the  cost  and  how  many  hundred  priests  were  required 
to  submerge  it. 


xviii-  SYNOPSIS    OF    SUBJECTS. 

Mishna/.  If  meat  of  the  Holy  of  Holies  became  defiled,  where  it  must 
be  burned.  The  different  opinions  of  the  schools  of  Shamai  and  Hillel  on 
this  point. 

Mishna^.  The  different  opinions  of  R.  Eliezer  and  R.  Aqiba  concern- 
ing anything  that  had  become  defiled  tlirough  a  principal  uncleanness. 

Mishna  h.  The  joints  of  the  daily  sacrifices,  where  they  were  laid  down  ; 
the  sacrifices  of  the  new  moon,  where  they  were  placed.  The  payment  of 
Shekalim,  if  it  was  obligatory  after  the  destruction  of  the  Temple.  The  same 
law  regarding  cattle-tithe,  tithes  of  grain,  and  deliverance  of  the  firstlings. 
The  law  if  one  sanctified  Shekalim  or  firstlings  ?,iter  the  destruction  of  the 
Temple. 


TRACT  SHEKALIM. 


Under  this  heading  the  payment  of  a  head-tax  is  treated  of, 
which  amounted  to  one-half  of  a  shekel  (in  the  Mishna  always 
referred  to  as  a  shekel)  and  which  had  to  be  paid  by  every  Israel- 
ite (see  Exodus  xxx.  12)  upon  the  completion  of  his  twentieth 
year.  In  the  times  of  the  existence  of  the  Temple,  the  proceeds 
of  this  tax  were  applied  for  communal  sacrifices  and  for  the  needs 
of  the  capital.  The  manner  of  collection,  investment,  and  ap- 
plication of  this  money  forms  the  subject  of  this  treatise.  It 
contains,  in  addition,  many  other  historical  regulations,  most 
of  which,  however,  only  held  good  during  the  existence  of  the 
second  Temple. 

CHAPTER   I. 

MISHNA :  {a)  On  the  first  day  of  the  month  of  Adar,  warn- 
ings are  heralded  (from  Jerusalem)  concerning  Shekalim  ^  and 
Kelayim  ^  (the  prohibition  concerning  the  use,  for  ploughing  to- 


EDITOR'S    COMMENTARY. 

CHAPTER   I. 

MiSHNA  a.  '  Warnings  were  heralded  from  Jerusalem  concerning 
Shekalim  on  and  after  the  first  of  Adar,  in  order  to  prepare  for  the 
first  of  Nissan,  before  which  day  the  final  settlement  of  Shekalim  had 
to  be  made.  This  was  inferred  by  the  Palestinian  Talmud  from  the 
following  passage  [Exodus  xl.  17]:  "  And  it  came  to  pass  in  the  first 
month  in  the  second  year,  on  the  first  of  the  month,  that  the  taber- 
nacle was  reared  up."  This  v/as  commented  upon  by  a  Boraitha, 
which  stated,  that  on  the  day  on  which  the  tabernacle  was  reared 
up,  the  entire  sum  of  the  Shekalim  collected  was  ready  for  disburse- 
ment. 

"Warnings  were  also  heralded  concerning  Kelayim,  because  that 
month  was  the  time  when  ploughing  and  sowing  commenced  in 
Palestine 


2  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

gether,  of  an  ox  with  an  ass,  and  the  sowing  together  of  differ- 
ent kinds  of  seeds).  On  the  fifteenth  day  of  that  month  the 
Megillah  Esther ^  is  read  in  the  fortified  cities;  and  the  same  day 
the  improvement  of  country  roads/  market-places,  and  legal 
plunge-baths  is  proceeded  with.  Public  affairs  are  again  taken 
up  =  ;  at  the  same  time,  graves  are  marked  with  lime,^and  messen- 
gers are  sent  out  on  account  of  possible  Kelayim.' 

*  The  Megillah  (Book  of  Esther)  was  read  on  the  fifteenth  day  of 
this  month  only  in  such  cities  as  were  fortified  since  the  time  of  Joshua 
the  son  of  Nun;  but  in  such  as  were  fortified  after  his  day,  and  in 
the  open  cities,  it  was  read  on  the  fourteenth  of  the  month.  No 
mention  is  made  in  the  Mishna  concerning  the  reading  on  the  four- 
teenth, because,  the  majority  of  the  cities  being  open,  or  fortified  since 
the  time  of  Joshua  ben  Nun,  it  was  generally  known,  and  there  was 
no  fear  of  it  being  forgotten.  In  the  few  fortified  cities,  however,  it 
was  necessary  to  remind  the  inhabitants  that  the  day  on  which  they 
were  to  read  the  Megillah  was  the  fifteenth.  The  Palestinian  Talmud 
(Chapter  I.,  Halakha  2)  states,  that  we  are  taught  by  this  Mishna 
that  all  commandments  which  are  to  be  fulfilled  on  a  leap  year  in 
the  second  Adar  should  not  be  fulfilled  in  the  first  Adar;  but  we  can- 
not see  how  that  can  be  inferred  from  this  Mishna,  although  some 
commentators  have  tried  to  explain  it. 

*  The  rainy  season  ended  by  the  first  of  Adar,  and  in  consequence 
of  the  heavy  rains  the  country  roads  and  market-places  were  in  bad 
condition.  In  the  month  of  Nissan,  travel  towards  Jerusalem  was 
very  heavy;  hence  the  warning  to  improve  the  roads,  etc.,  was  her- 
alded. The  public  plunge-baths  were  also  injured  by  the  rains  and 
had  to  be  repaired,  for  the  sake  of  the  public,  to  whom  the  law  pre- 
scribes the  taking  of  a  legal  bath  on  or  before  the  holidays. 

'  The  Palestinian  Talmud  states,  that  at  that  time  the  courts  of  law 
(Beth-din)  would  meet  in  session  for  the  trial  of  civil  suits,  criminal 
cases,  and  crimes  involving  the  punishment  of  stripes;  for  the  redemp- 
tion of  such  as  had  devoted  all  their  possessions  in  honor  of  the  Lord, 
and  such  as  had  given  the  estimated  value  of  their  person,  etc. ;  also 
for  the  performance  of  the  rite  of  the  bitter  water  (see  Numbers  v. 
12-31),  and  for  the  performance  of  the  rite  of  breaking  the  calf's 
neck  (see  Deut.  xxi.),  and  for  the  rite  of  the  red  heifer  (see  Numbers 
xix.),  and  for  the  ceremony  of  piercing  a  serf's  ear  (see  Exodus 
xxi.).  For  all  this,  and  any  other  matters  that  came  up  before  them, 
the  courts  of  law  assembled  in  that  month. 

"Such  graves  as  had  been  injured  during  the  rainy  season,  and 


TRACT   SHEKALIM.  3 

{b)  R.  Jehudah  says :  At  one  time  the  messengers  used  to 
pull  out  the  Kelayim  (illegally  mixed  seeds)  and  throw  them  at 
the  feet  of  the  owners !  The  number  of  the  transgressors,  how- 
ever, being  constantly  on  the  increase,  the  Kelayim  were  pulled 
out  and  thrown  into  the  roads.  Finally,  it  was  determined  that 
the  entire  fields  of  such  law-breakers  were  to  be  confiscated.* 

{c)  On  the  fifteenth  of  this  month  (Adar)  the  money-changers 
outside  of  Jerusalem  seated  themselves  at  their  tables.^  In  the 
city  of  Jerusalem,  however,  they  did  not  do  this  until  the 
twenty-fifth  of  the  month. ^  As  soon  as  the  money-changers 
seated  themselves  also  in  the  city,  the  taking  of  pledges  from 

were  not  marked,  had  to  be  restored  and  marked,  in  order  that  a 
man  be  saved  the  annoyance  of  becoming  unclean  by  stepping  on  a 
grave.  The  Palestinian  Talmud  infers  this  from  the  passage  [Le- 
viticus xiii.  46]:  "Unclean,  unclean,  shall  he  call  out,"  and  inter- 
prets it  to  signify  that  the  uncleanness  itself  should  call  out ' '  unclean  * ' 
and  keep  men  away  from  its  vicinity.  For  this  reason  it  was  her- 
alded, that  the  graves  were  to  be  marked  in  order  to  be  a  warning  to 
passers-by  that  such  places  were  unclean. 

^On  account  of  the  severity  of  the  law  concerning  Kelayim  and 
the  frequency  with  which  that  law  was  infracted,  it  was  deemed 
insufificient  merely  to  herald  the  prohibition,  and  messengers  were 
sent  out  to  see  the  law  enforced  (Maimonides). 

MiSHNA  b.  *  R.  Jehudah's  dictum  does  not  intend  to  dispute  the 
foregoing,  but  merely  supplements  it  with  the  statement  that  the  mes- 
sengers sent  out  were  for  the  purpose  of  punishing  the  infractors  of 
the  law  of  Kelayim.  The  Palestinian  Talmud  adduces  the  right  of 
the  Beth-din  to  confiscate  property  from  the  passage  [Ezra  x.  8]: 
"And  that  whosoever  should  not  come  within  three  days,  etc.,  all 
his  substance  should  be  devoted."  Whence  it  may  be  seen,  that  a 
Beth-din  has  such  power. 

MisHNA  c.  *  It  was  the  custom  for  money-changers  in  those  days 
to  carry  their  tables  with  them,  and  hence  they  were  called  "the 
men  of  the  tables."  The  Mishna  relates,  that  on  the  fifteenth  of 
the  month  the  money-changers  were  ordered  to  go  out  into  the 
rural  districts  with  their  tables,  in  order  to  provide  the  people  with 
the  necessary  half-shekels;  for  the  tax  had  to  be  paid  in  half-shekels 
only. 

"  On  the  twenty-fifth,  when  it  was  high  time  for  payment  and  the 
people  commenced  flocking  into  the  city  of  Jerusalem,  the  money- 
changers returned  and  sat  in  the  court  of  the  Temple. 


4  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

the  tardy  ones  commenced,^  But  from  whom  were  pledges 
taken  ?  From  Levites,  Israelites,  proselytes,  and  freedmen  ;  but 
not  from  women,  slaves,  and  minors.  If  a  father,  however, 
commenced  to  give  a  pledge  for  a  minor,  he  was  not  allowed  to 
stop.  From  priests  no  pledges  were  taken,  for  the  sake  of  peace 
(and  the  dignity  of  the  priests  themselves).^ 

{d)  Said  R.  Jehudah:  Ben  Buchri  proclaimed  the  following 
ordinance  in  Yavne  (Jamnia):  "Any  priest  paying  his  shekel 
commits  no  wrong."  R.  Johanan  ben  Zakai,  however,  rejoined: 
"  Not  so!  (The  ordinance  should  read:)  '  Any  priest  not  paying 
his  shekel,  commits  a  sin.'  " '  But  the  priests  used  to  interpret 
the  following  passage  to  their  advantage  :  It  is  written  [Leviticus 
vi.  i6]:  "And  every  meat-offering  of  a  priest  shall  be  wholly 
burnt,  it  shall  not  be  eaten."  (They  said  therefore:)  Were  we 
obliged  to  contribute  (our  shekels)  how  could  we  eat  our^  Omer 

^  The  taking  of  pledges  commenced  immediately  upon  the  depar- 
ture of  the  money-changers  from  the  rural  districts,  because,  if  a 
man  had  not  paid  his  half-shekel  while  the  money-changers  were  still 
within  his  reach,  it  was  obvious  that  he  either  would  not  or  could  not 
pay  it,  and  in  consequence  a  pledge  was  taken. 

*  According  to  law,  the  priests  were  also  in  duty  bound  to  pay  the 
half-shekels,  the  collection  of  which  was  mainly  intended  for  the  pur- 
chase of  communal  sacrifices,  and  the  priests  were  naturally  included 
in  the  community.  They,  however,  found  a  defect  in  the  law,  and 
held  themselves  exempt.  In  consequence  of  their  being  in  authority 
during  the  existence  of  the  second  Temple,  they  were  not  forced  to 
pay  or  give  pledges,  for  the  sake  of  harmony. 

MiSHNA  d.  '  The  difference  of  opinion  between  Ben  Buchri  (who 
was  a  priest  himself)  and  R.  Johan  ben  Zakai  is,  as  can  be  plainly 
seen,  that  Ben  Buchri  holds,  that  according  to  law  the  priests  are  not 
in  duty  bound  to  pay  the  half-shekel;  but  if  they  do  it,  they  may 
nevertheless  partake  of  their  Omer,  two  loaves,  and  showbread, 
while  R.  Johan  ben  Zakai  says,  that  they  are  in  duty  bound  to  pay 
the  half-shekel. 

'  The  priests  claim,  that  if  they  were  to  pay  the  half-shekel  with 
which  the  Omer,  etc.,  is  bought,  they  would  naturally  have  a  share 
in  it,  and  they  would  eat  their  share,  which,  as  a  priest's  offering, 
must  not  be  eaten  by  any  one.  This  is,  however,  an  unjust  claim; 
for  the  majority  is  considered,  and  the  priests  were  by  far  in  the 
minority.  As  the  priests,  however,  were  in  charge  of  the  affairs  of 
state,  they  interpreted  the  law  to  suit  themselves,  and  for  the  sake  of 
peace  they  were  not  disturbed. 


TRACT    SHEKALIM.  5 

(first  sheaves  harvested)  and  the  two  loaves  and  the  showbread 
^which  were  procured  with  the  shekels  of  the  head-tax)  ? 

(e)  Although  it  was  ordained  that  no  pledges  were  to  be  taken 
from  women,  slaves,  and  minors,  if  they  offered  to  contribute, 
their  money  was  accepted.  From  heathens  and  Samaritans  it 
was  not  accepted.  Nor  were  bird-offerings,  for  men  or  women 
afflicted  with  venereal  disease  and  for  women  who  had  recently 
been  confined,  accepted;  nor  sin  and  guilt  offerings.^  Vowed 
and  voluntary  offerings,  however,  were  accepted. ^  The  follow- 
ing is  the  rule:  Everything  which  was  vowed  as  an  offering  and 
all  voluntary  offerings  were  accepted.  Anything  not  vowed  for 
offering  or  given  voluntarily  was  not  accepted  from  them  (heath- 
ens and  Samaritans).  So  it  is  explicitly  declared  in  Ezra,  for  it 
is  written  [Ezra  iv.  3] :  "  It  is  not  ior  jou  and  us  (both)  to  build 
a  house  unto  our  God." 

{/)  The  following  are  obliged  to  pay  a  premium  ^  (in  addi- 

MiSHNA  e.  '  This  clause  of  the  Mishna  refers,  according  to  the 
Palestinian  Talmud  and  Maimonides,  to  Samaritans  only  and  not  to 
heathens,  while  the  sin  and  guilt  offerings  were  accepted  from 
Samaritans  but  not  from  heathens,  because  the  latter  had  not  the 
same  laws  as  the  Israelites  as  regards  sin-offerings.  The  Samaritans, 
however,  claiming  to  be  Israelites,  were  allowed  to  bring  their  sin 
and  guilt  offerings.  The  reason,  however,  that  bird-offerings  were 
not  accepted  from  the  Samaritans  was  because,  in  the  first  place,  an 
offering  for  a  person  afHicted  with  venereal  disease  had  to  be  brought 
in  the  form  of  a  sheep;  but  if  the  person  could  not  afford  a  sheep, 
birds  answered  the  purpose.  The  Samaritans,  however,  were  not 
considered  trustworthy,  and  it  was  feared  that  they  might  bring  a 
wrong  offering  (i.e.,  an  offering  of  less  value  than  they  could  afford). 

"  These  were  accepted  from  heathens  also,  because  such  offerings 
were  for  forgiveness  of  sins  in  general,  and  in  that  respect  all  men 
are  equal. 

Mishna/.  'The  shekel  mentioned  in  the  Bible  is  equivalent  to 
the  Sela  mentioned  in  the  Mishna,  and  is  worth  two  shekels  of  the 
Mishna.  The  half-shekel  of  the  Bible  was  worth  (according  to 
Maimonides)  the  weight  of  192  grains  of  barley  in  silver,  and,  for 
fear  that  the  shekel  of  the  Mishna  of  that  time  was  perhaps  a  trifle 
less  than  the  above  weight,  a  small  coin  was  prescribed  to  be  paid  in 
addition  to  the  above  shekel,  and  which  was  named  from  the  Greek 
Colobbus  (jo'AAi;/?o?).  He  who  gave  the  half-shekel  voluntarily, 
and  not  because  he  was  obliged  to  pay  it,  was  exempt  from  paying 
the  above  "  Colobbus."    Those  of  the  priests  who,  regardless  of  the 


6  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

tion  to  the  half-shekel) :  Levites,  Israelites,  proselytes,  and  freed- 
men;  but  not  (priests,)  women,  slaves,  and  minors.  If  one  pay 
(the  half-shekel)  for  a  priest,  woman,  slave,  or  a  minor,  he  is 
exempt  (from  paying  the  premium) ;  if  he  pay  for  himself  and 
another,  however,  he  must  pay  a  premium  for  one.  R.  Meir 
says:  "(He  must  pay)  two  premiums.  One  who  pays  a  Sela 
(whole  Bible  shekel)  and  receives  in  return  a  half  (Bible)  shekel 
must  pay  two  premiums."  ^ 

{£■)  If  one  pay  for  a  poor  man,  for  a  neighbor,  or  for  a  coun- 
tryman, he  is  exempt  from  a  premium  (because  it  is  charity);  if 
he  only  advances  them  the  money,  he  is  not  exempt.  Brothers 
who  (after  dividing  their  inheritance)  have  their  business  in  com- 
mon, or  partners,  when  they  become  obliged  to  pay  a  premium, 
are  exempt  from  cattle-tithe.*  As  long,  however,  as  they  must 
pay  cattle-tithe,  they  are  exempt  from  a  premium.  How  much 
does  the  premium  amount  to  ?  According  to  R.  Meir,  to  one 
silver  Meah  (one  twenty-fourth  of  a  shekel) ;  but  the  sages  say, 
to  one-half  of  a  Meah. 

claim  that  they  were  not  obliged  to  pay  the  half-shekel,  paid  it 
nevertheless,  were  exempt  from  the  above  premium  for  the  sake  of 
peace. 

'  One  in  addition  to  the  half-shekel  and  one  for  the  exchange. 

MiSHNA  g.  *  Cattle-tithe  must  be  paid  by  a  man  only  from  such 
young  as  his  own  cattle  calve,  but  not  from  the  calves  which  he  pur- 
chases elsewhere.  If  two  brothers  inherit  cattle  or  calves  from  their 
father,  they  must  pay  cattle-tithe,  because  the  cattle  are  regarded 
as  still  their  father's.  If  they  have  divided  their  inheritance,  even 
though  they  shared  alike,  they  are  both  exempt  from  payment,  because 
it  is  regarded  as  if  one  brother  had  bought  the  cattle  from  the  other. 
(The  same  refers  to  partners.  As  long  as  they  are  in  partnership  they 
are  liable  for  cattle-tithe  from  such  young  as  is  calved  by  their  own 
cattle,  but  if  the  partners  dissolve  even  after  the  cattle  had  calved, 
they  are  exempt,  because  it  is  regarded  as  if  one  partner  had  pur- 
chased his  share  from  the  other.)  Now,  it  is  obvious  that  when  the 
two  brothers  are  still  partners  and  liable  for  cattle-tithe  they  are 
regarded  as  one,  and  by  paying  one  Sela  for  both  are  exempt  from 
premiums,  because  the  money  is  still  considered  as  their  father's. 
(This  explanation  is  taken  from  Rashi  in  Tract  Chulin.)  As  soon, 
however,  as  they  are  exempt  from  cattle-tithe,  they  have  nothing 
more  in  common,  hence  must  pay  a  half-shekel  each,  and  thus  must 
also  pay  the  premium. 


CHAPTER   II. 

MISHNA:  (a)  One  may  put  together  the  Shekalim  and 
exchange  them  for  Darkens  ^  (Greek  coins  of  permanent  value), 
in  order  to  be  able  to  carry  them  more  readily.  Just  as  the 
money-chests  were  on  the  order  of  horns  in  the  city  of  Jerusa- 
lem, so  were  they  also  in  the  country.^  If  the  inhabitants  of  a 
town  sent  their  Shekalim  (to  the  city  of  Jerusalem)  by  messen- 
gers, and  the  money  was  stolen  from  them  or  was  lost  by  acci- 
dent, if  the  treasurers  had  already  drawn  their  share  (from  the 
communal  Shekalim),  the  messengers  of  the  city  must  swear  to 
the  fact  before  the  treasurers.  If  the  share  had  not  yet  been 
drawn,  they  (the  messengers)  must  swear  to  the  facts  before 
the  inhabitants  of  the  town,  and  the  latter  must  make  the 
amount  good.^     If  the  money  was  recovered  or  returned  by  the 

CHAPTER   II. 

MiSHNA  a.  '  The  Darken  (Greek  JapsiHO?  ,•  or  drachm,  biblical 
term,  Ezra  viii.  27)  was  a  Persian  gold  coin  worth  two  Selas,  or  four 
half-shekels. 

"  The  money-chests  were  narrow  on  one  side  and  broad  at  the 
bottom,  and  had  a  slot  through  which  a  Darken  on  edge  only  could 
be  passed,  and  were  given  to  the  messenger  locked. 

'If  a  portion  of  the  amount  of  Shekalim  collected  had  already 
been  spent  for  sacrifices  or  for  the  improvement  of  the  Temple,  all 
the  Israelites  who  were  bound  to  pay  their  Shekalim  had  a  share  in 
such  disbursement,  and  the  amount  sent  by  the  town,  although  lost 
or  stolen,  was  counted  as  if  it  had  been  included  in  the  amount 
spent,  because  it  was  the  express  understanding  that  in  every  shekel 
spent  for  sacrifices,  etc.,  all  Israelites  had  a  share,  in  order  that  they 
might  have  a  share  in  the  sacrifices.  Therefore,  the  messengers  of 
the  city  had  simply  to  swear  that  they  had  taken  the  money,  and  it 
was  considered  received  by  the  treasurers.  If,  however,  no  portion 
of  the  Shekalim  had  yet  been  expended,  the  share  of  the  inhabitants 
of  the  town,  whose  money  had  been  stolen  or  lost,  was  not  included 
in  the  amount  on  hand,  and  hence  the  representatives  of  the  city  were 
obliged  to  make  it  good  (Maimonides). 


8  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

thieves,  both  amounts  are  considered  as  Shekalim,  and  nothing 
is  credited  to  next  year's  account. 

{b)  If  one  give  his  shekel  to  another  to  pay  (his  head-tax) 
for  him,  and  the  man  appropriates  it  to  pay  his  own  tax,  he 
(the  latter)  commits  embezzlement  if  the  share  had  already  been 
drawn ;  the  same  is  the  case  with  one  who  pays  his  shekel  with 
sanctified  money,  after  his  share  had  been  drawn  and  an  animal 
was  sacrificed  for  it.^  If  he  took  the  money  from  the  second 
tithes  or  from  the  Sabbatical  year  fruit,  he  must  eat  the  full 
value  of  same  in  the  city  of  Jerusalem.^ 

{c)  If  one  gather  together  single  coins  and  say:  "These 
shall  serve  for  my  Shekalim,"  the  eventual  remainder  is,  accord- 
ing to  the  school  of  Shamai,  a  voluntary  gift;  according  to  the 
school  of  Hillel,  it  is  not  sanctified.  If  the  man  say,  however: 
"  Out  of  these  I  shall  pay  my  Shekalim,"  the  eventual  remain- 
der is,  according  to  both  schools,  not  sanctified.  If  he  say: 
"  These  shall  serve  me  for  a  sin-offering,"  the  eventual  remain- 
der is,  according  to  both  schools,  a  voluntary  offering.  If  he 
say:  "  Out  oi  these  will  I  bring  a  sin-offering,"  the  eventual 
remainder  is,  according  to  both  schools,  not  sanctified.* 

MisHNA  b.  *  The  same  reason  as  stated  in  note  3  of  the  preced- 
ing Mishna  applies  also  to  this  clause;  and,  besides,  everybody  had 
a  share  in  the  sacrifice  of  the  animal,  even  if  the  sacrifice  were  made 
on  the  strength  of  future  receipts,  for  pledges  were  on  hand  insuring 
the  payment  by  the  delinquents. 

'  If  the  money  was  taken  from  the  second  tithes,  the  value  of 
which  had  to  be  consumed  in  the  city  of  Jerusalem,  he  must  replace 
it  by  an  equal  amount  and  proclaim  that  this  money  is  in  exchange 
for  the  money  taken  from  the  second  tithe,  and  then  consume  it 
accordingly.  If  the  money  was  taken  from  the  Sabbatical  year  fruit, 
he  must  replace  it  and  proclaim  the  same  as  above  and  make  it 
public  property,  as  is  the  law  of  Sabbatical  years. 

Mishna  c.  *  The  meaning  of  this  Mishna  is  as  follows:  If  a  man 
gathered  money  little  by  little,  with  the  express  intention  of  paying 
his  shekalim  tax  out  of  such  money,  and  separated  it  from  other 
moneys,  any  remainder  which  he  may  have  left  over  after  such  pay- 
ment is,  according  to  the  school  of  Shamai,  to  be  devoted  for  a  vol- 
untary offering,  because  it  was  separated;  and  according  to  the 
school  of  Hillel,  it  is  ordinary  money,  that  may  be  used  at  will, 
because  it  was  gathered  only  for  the  purpose  of  paying  the  amount 
due,  which  was  already  paid.      If  a  man,  however,  had  a  sum  of 


TRACT    SHEKALIM.  .     9 

{d)  R.  Simeon  says :  "  What  difference  is  there  here  between 
the  Shekalim  and  the  sin-offerings  ?  Shekalim  have  their  fixed 
value,  but  sin-offerings  have  not."^  R.  Jehudah  says:  "  Even 
Shekalim  have  no  fixed  value;  for  when  Israel  returned  from 
captivity,  (half-)  Darkons  were  paid;  later  (half-)  Selas  were 
paid ;  again,  Tabas  (half-shekels)  were  current  (but  not  accepted), 
and  finally  people  would  only  pay  with  Dinars."  *  Rejoined  R. 
Simeon:  "  Nevertheless,  the  Shekalim  were  all  of  like  value  at 
one  and  the  same  time,  while  as  for  sin-offerings,  one  brings  one 
Sela's  worth,  another  two,  and  a  third  three  Selas'  worth.  "^ 

{e)  The  remainder  of  moneys  intended  for  Shekalim  is  not 

money,  and  declared  that  he  would  use  this  sum  for  the  payment  of 
his  shekalim  tax,  the  remainder  which  he  may  have  after  such  pay- 
ment is,  even  according  to  the  school  of  Hillel,  to  be  devoted  for  a 
voluntary  offering.  With  money  devoted  for  a  voluntary  offering, 
whole-offerings  only  were  to  be  bought. 

MisHNA  d.  '  By  his  teaching  in  this  Mishna,  R.  Simeon  wishes  to 
explain  the  reason  of  the  decree  of  the  school  of  Hillel  concerning 
the  remainder  of  money  which  had  been  gathered  little  by  little  for 
the  purpose  of  paying  the  Shekalim,  or  for  the  bringing  of  a  sin- 
offering,  and  says:  "Because  it  is  written  [Exodus  xxx.  15J,  'The 
rich  shall  not  give  more,  and  the  poor  shall  not  give  less,  than  the 
half  of  a  shekel,'  a  man  when  gathering  money  for  the  payment  of 
Shekalim  knows  exactly  how  much  he  will  need;  hence,  although  he 
separated  the  amount  gathered,  the  remainder  is  ordinary  money; 
but  if  he  gathered  money  for  a  sin-offering,  which  has  no  fixed  value, 
and  for  which  he  did  not  know  exactly  how  much  he  would  have  to 
pay,  his  intention  in  separating  the  money  was  evidently  to  use  the 
entire  amount  for  such  purpose,  and  hence  the  eventual  remainder, 
which  cannot  be  used  for  a  sin-offering,  as  it  is  already  sacrificed, 
should  be  used  for  a  voluntary  offering." 

"  R.  Jehudah  differs  with  R.  Simeon,  and  states,  that  the  reason 
given  by  the  latter  for  the  decree  of  the  school  of  Hillel  cannot  be 
correct,  for  even  Shekalim  had  not  always  a  fixed  value,  and  when 
a  man  commenced  to  gather  money  for  the  payment  of  his  Shekalim 
he  also  may  not  have  known  how  much  he  would  have  to  pay  when 
the  time  came,  because  the  value  of  the  coin  might  be  changed  in 
the  meantime. 

'R.  Simeon  answered  R.  Jehudah  very  properly:  "Even  if  the 
value  of  the  coin  was  changed,  the  man  knew  well  that  he  would  pay 
a  certain  sum  equal  to  that  paid  by  all  others,  and  the  entire  amount 


lo  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

sanctified.^  The  remainder  of  moneys  intended  for  the  offering 
of  the  tenth  part  of  an  ephah  [Lev.  v.  xi.]  (sin-offering  of  the 
poor),  for  bird-offerings  of  men  or  women  afflicted  with  venereal 
disease  and  of  women  that  had  been  recently  confined,  and  for 
sin  and  guilt  offerings,  are  considered  voluntary  ofTerings.  Fol- 
lowing is  the  rule:  The  remainder  of  everything  designated  for 
sin  and  guilt  offerings  is  considered  as  a  voluntary  offering.^  The 
remainder  of  whole-ofTerings  is  applied  to  whole-offerings,^  of 
food-offerings  to  food-offerings,  of  peace-offerings  to  peace-offer- 
ings; that  of  the  Passover-offerings  to  peace-offerings,  and  that 
of  Nazarite-offerings  to  Nazarite-offerings.  The  remainder  of 
such  (offering)  as  is  designated  for  a  certain  Nazarite  is  a  vol- 
untary offering.  The  remainder  of  moneys  for  the  poor  in  gen- 
eral, belongs  to  the  poor;  of  money  collected  for  a  certain  poor 
man  belongs  to  that  same  poor  man.  The  remainder  of  ransom 
moneys  for  prisoners  is  applied  to  (the  ransom  of)  other  prisoners ; 
of  moneys  collected  for  a  certain  prisoner  belongs  to  that  prisoner. 
The  remainder  of  burial  moneys  is  applied  to  (the  burial  of)  other 
dead ;  of  money  collected  for  a  particular  dead  (man)  belongs  to 

that  he  had  gathered  would  not  be  consumed;  as  for  a  sin-offering, 
however,  he  never  knew  exactly  just  what  amount  he  would  need 
for  its  purchase,  because  it  had  no  fixed  value;  therefore,  when  he 
separated  the  money  from  other  moneys  his  intention  was  to  use  the 
entire  amount." 

MiSHNA  e.  '  After  explaining  the  opinions  of  both  schools  (Shamai 
and  Hillel)  in  the  preceding  Mishna,  and  the  Halakha,  as  usual,  pre- 
vailing according  to  the  school  of  Hillel,  this  Mishna  states  the  final 
Halakha  anonymously,  and  then  cites  the  subsequent  ordinances, 
concerning  which  there  is  no  difference  of  opinion. 

*  The  reason  for  this  rule  is:  A  sin  or  guilt  offering  must  be 
brought  for  each  sin  separately.  If  money  was  designated  for  one 
sin-offering,  the  remainder  cannot  be  applied  to  another  offering 
for  the  same  sin,  nor  for  another  sin  which  one  might  commit  in  the 
future,  hence  the  remainder  must  be  a  voluntary  offering. 

'  The  remainder  of  whole-offerings  may  be  used  for  more  whole- 
offerings,  because  the  quantity  of  whole-offerings,  which  are  volun- 
tary, is  not  limited.  The  same  applies  to  food  and  peace  offerings. 
The  remainder  of  Passover-offerings,  however,  which  cannot  be  used 
for  the  same  purpose  again,  and  should,  however,  be  used  for  an  eat- 
able sacrifice,  cannot  be  used  for  a  voluntary  offering,  which  is  a 
whole-offering,  but  for  a  peace-offering,  which  is  eatable. 


TRACT    SHEKALIM.  ii 

the  legal  heirs.  R.  Meir  says:  "  The  remainder  remains  intact 
until  EHjah  comes  again  "  (as  the  herald  of  the  resurrection).* 
R.  Nathan  says:  "  It  should  be  applied  to  the  building  of  a 
gravestone  for  the  departed." 

*The  reason  for  R.  Meir's  dictum  is:  He  holds,  that  if  money  is 
collected  for  a  certain  dead  man,  the  remainder  belongs  virtually  to 
him,  i.e.,  should  be  applied  only  for  the  use  of  the  corpse;  hence  the 
heirs  have  no  share  in  it.  R.  Nathan,  however,  says,  that  the  set- 
ting up  of  a  gravestone  is  for  the  use  of  the  corpse,  it  being  m  his 
honor  and  not  of  any  benefit  to  the  heirs. 


.      CHAPTER   III. 

MISHNA:  [a)  At  three  periods  of  the  year  money  is  drawn - 
from  the  treasury  (of  the  Shekalim) ;  viz.  :  Half  a  month  before 
Passover,  half  a  month  before  Pentecost,  and  half  a  month  be- 
fore the  Feast  of  Booths.  The  same  dates  are  also  the  terms 
for  the  obligation  of  cattle-tithing,  so  says  R.  Aqiba.  Ben 
Azai  says:  "  The  dates  for  the  latter  terms  are  the  twenty-ninth 
of  Adar,  the  first  of  Sivan,  and  the  twenty-ninth  of  Abh."  R. 
Eliezer  and  R.  Simeon  both  say:  "  The  first  of  Nissan,  the  first 
of  Sivan,  and  the  twenty-ninth  of  Elul."  But  why  do  they  say 
the  twenty-ninth  of  Elul,  why  not  the  first  of  Tishri  ?  Because 
that  is  a  feast-day,  and  it  is  not  allowed  to  tithe  on  a  feast-day ; 
therefore  they  ordained  it  for  the  preceding  day,  the  twenty- 
ninth  of  Elul.* 

{b)  The  money  drawn  from  the  treasury  was  brought  in  three 
chests,  each  of  three  Saahs'  capacity.  On  these  chests  was 
written:  Aleph,  Beth,  Gimmel.  R.  Ishmael  says:  "  They  were 
marked  in  Greek:  Alpha,  Beta,  Gamma." — The  one  that  drew 
the  money  was  not  allowed  to  enter  (the  treasury)  with  a 
turned-up  garment,  nor  with  shoes  nor  sandals,  nor  with  Tephil- 
lin,  nor  with  an  amulet,  in  order  that,  in  the  event  of  his  becom- 
ing impoverished,  it  should  not  be  said  that  he  was  thus  pun- 
ished on  account  of  transgression  against  the  treasury;  or  if  he 
became  rich,  that  he  enriched  himself  by  means  of  money  drawn 
from  the  treasury.  For  a  man  must  stand  as  unblemished  before 
his    fellowman    as  before  his  God,   as    it   is  written   [Numbers 


CHAPTER   III. 

MisHNA  a.  *  The  dates  of  the  time  for  cattle-tithing  have  nothing 
to  do  with  the  time  for  drawing  the  money;  for  as  to  that  time,  all 
agree  upon  the  dates  stated  in  the  Mishna,  and  the  difference  of 
opinion  concerning  the  time  of  cattle-tithing  is  explained  in  the 
Palestinian  Talmud  and  in  Tract  Rosh  Hashana  of  the  Babylonian 
Talmud. 


TRACT   SHEKALIM.  13 

xxxii.  22]  :  "  And  ye  be  thus  guiltless  before  the  Lord  and  before 
Israel";  and  [Proverbs  iii.  4]:  "So  shalt  thou  find  grace  and 
good  favor  in  the  eyes 'of  God  and  man."  * 

{c)  The  members  of  the  family  of  R.  Gamaliel  used  to  enter, 
each  one  with  his  shekel  between  his  fingers,  and  throw  it  before 
the  one  who  drew  the  money  from  the  treasury,  and  the  latter 
immediately  placed  it  into  the  chest  (which  he  took  out). — The 
one  who  came  in  to  draw  the  money  did  not  proceed  before  he 
had  said  to  the  bystanders:  "  I  will  now  proceed  to  draw,"  and 
they  had  answered:  "  Draw,  draw,  draw,"  three  times.* 

MiSHNA  d.  *  In  this  Mishna  the  manner  of  drawing  the  money 
from  the  treasury  is  described:  how  it  was  accomplished,  that  the 
Shekalim  for  which  communal  sacrifices  were  bought  should  be  taken 
from  the  treasury  in  such  a  manner  that  all  the  contributors  should 
have  a  share  in  them.  The  mode  of  procedure  was  as  follows:  About 
the  middle  of  the  month  of  Nissan,  when  the  money  from  all  Israel 
had  been  collected,  the  treasurers,  amid  great  ceremony,  would  open 
the  rooms  where  the  boxes  in  which  the  money  had  been  deposited  by 
the  collectors  were  situated,  and  bring  out  all  the  boxes  contained  in 
the  rooms.  These  boxes  were  in  turn  opened,  and  their  contents 
thrown  into  three  cases,  each  of  which  had  nine  Saahs'  capacity,  and 
were  covered  with  a  cover.  The  remainder,  after  filling  the  three 
cases,  was  called  the  remainder  of  the  room  (and  what  was  done 
with  this  will  be  told  later).  After  the  performance  of  this  ceremony 
one  man  was  selected,  while  the  oi;hers  withdrew,  and  he  was  to 
transfer  the  money  to  be  expended,  from  the  cases  into  three  small 
chests,  each  having  three  Saahs'  capacity  and  marked  with  three 
letters:  Aleph,  Beth,  Gimmel;  or.  Alpha,  Beta,  Gamma. 

Mishna  c.  *  After  this  ceremony,  the  man,  being  almost  nude — 
for  he  had  no  garments  on  in  which  he  could  conceal  a  coin,  no  shoes, 
no  sandals,  no  hat,  no  hose;  in  fact,  nothing  that  would  afford  a 
hiding-place  for  money — would  take  the  chest  marked  Aleph  and 
bring  it  up  to  the  first  case,  and  fill  it  up,  after  which  he  would 
cover  the  case.  Then  he  would  take  the  chest  marked  Beth,  fill  it 
from  the  second  case,  cover  the  case,  and  proceed  in  the  same  man- 
ner with  the  chest  marked  Gimmel,  from  the  third  box,  which  con- 
tained nine  Saahs'  capacity;  but  in  the  last  instance  he  would  leave 
the  case  uncovered,  as  a  sign  whence  to  commence  filling  the  chests 
at  the  second  drawing  of  money  in  the  same  order  as  before,  using 
the  third  case  first,  then  the  second,  and  lastly  the  first.  This  was 
done  in  order  that  the  money  should  be  thoroughly  intermingled 


14  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

{d)  After  the  man  had  completed  the  first  drawing,  he  cov- 
ered the  balance  with  a  cover  (of  fur) ;  the  same  was  done  after 
the  second  drawing;  after  the  third  drawing  the  balance  remained 
uncovered;  for  (the  covering  in  the  first  two  instances)  was  done 
only  in  order  not  to  draw  by  mistake  again  what  had  already 
been  drawn  from.  The  first  drawing  was  performed  in  the  name 
of  the  whole  land  of  Israel,  the  second  in  the  name  of  the  cities 
near  the  boundaries,  and  the  third  in  the  name  of  the  inhabi- 
tants of  Babylon,  Media,  and  all  distant  lands  in  general. 

and  everybody  have  a  share  in  the  sacrifices  bought  with  it.  The 
first  drawing  took  place  on  the  fifteenth  of  Nissan,  and  sacrifices 
were  purchased  for  the  Passover.  The  next  drawing  was  held  fifteen 
days  before  Pentecost;  and  Pentecost  only  lasting  one  day,  not  so 
many  sacrifices  were  needed,  and  the  money  lasted  until  fifteen  days 
before  the  Feast  of  Booths,  when  the  last  lot  of  money  was  with- 
drawn from  the  cases  and  placed  in  the  chests.  The  expenditure  of 
the  money  was  also  made  in  the  order  of  chests,  chest  Aleph  being 
emptied  first,  etc. ;  and  the  intention  was  to  place  Jerusalem  first, 
the  surrounding  territory  next,  and  all  the  other  places  where  l!srael- 
ites  dwelt  last. 


CHAPTER   IV. 

MISHNA:  (a)  What  was  done  with  this  money  drawn? 
The  daily  sacrifices,  the  additional  sacrifices,  and  the  drink- 
offerings  belonging  to  them  were  bought  therewith;  also  the 
Omers^  (sheaves),  the  two  loaves,  the  showbreads,  and  communal 
sacrifices  in  general.  The  watchmen  who  had  to  guard  the  after- 
growth on  the  Sabbatical  year  were  paid  out  of  this  money. 
R.  Jose  says:  "  One  who  so  desired  could  undertake  the  guard- 
ing (of  the  after-growth  on  Sabbatical  years)  without  pay.  "^ 
The  sages  answered  him:  "  Thou  wilt  admit  thyself,  that  the 
sacrifices  (from  the  after-growth  on  Sabbatical  years)  must  be 
brought  only  from  communal  property."^ 

CHAPTER  IV. 

MisHNA  a.  '  The  Omers  and  the  two  loaves,  which  had  to  be  made 
of  Palestinian  grain  and  of  the  new  crop  only,  were  bought  out  of 
the  Shekalim  during  the  six  ordinary  years,  but  in  the  Sabbatical 
year,  where  neither  sowing  nor  reaping  was  done,  where  were  they 
obtained  ?  Men  were  sent  out  to  discover  where  grain  was  growing 
as  an  after-growth,  that  had  not  been  sown,  and  then  watchmen 
were  placed  there  to  see  that  no  one  disturbed  the  crop;  for  it  being 
public  property,  the  possessor  of  the  soil  where  the  grain  grew  could 
not  prevent  its  being  taken.  The  men  who  discovered  the  grain  and 
the  watchmen  were  paid  for  their  services  out  of  the  Shekalim,  and 
such  payment  was  regarded  as  the  price  of  the  grain,  so  that  the 
grain  again  became  communal  property. 

"  R.  Jose,  in  making  this  statement,  holds,  that  one  may  present 
the  community  with  a  thing  intended  for  a  voluntary  offering,  and 
thus  the  man  who  guards  the  after-growth  gratuitously,  thereby 
acquiring  a  right  to  it,  may  donate  it  to  the  community  for  a  com- 
munal sacrifice. 

'  The  sages  mean  to  say  that  the  Omer,  the  two  loaves,  the  show- 
breads,  and  the  communal  sacrifices  must  be  taken  from  articles 
that  were  communal  property  from  the  beginning,  while  other  sacri- 
fices may  be  offered  from  things  donated  by  a  man  who  does  so  with 
a  good  will.     (See  Rosh  Hashana.) 


i6  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

{b)  The  red  heifer,  the  goat  that  was  to  be  sent  away  (on  the 
Day  of  Atonement),  the  strip  of  scarlet,  were  paid  for  out  of 
this  money.  The  bridge  for  the  cow,  the  bridge  for  the  goat 
that  was  to  be  sent  away,  and  the  scarlet  strip  tied  between  the 
latter's  horns,  the  canal  (at  the  Temple),  the  city  wall,  the  tow- 
ers and  other  necessities  of  the  city,  are  paid  for  out  of  the  re- 
mainder of  the  treasury-money.*  Abba  Saul  says:  "  The  costs 
of  the  building  of  the  bridge  for  the  red  heifer  were  defrayed  by 
the  high  priests  themselves." 

{c)  What  was  done  with  the  balance  left  over  in  the  treasury 
(after  all  the  things  in  the  preceding  Mishna  had  been  procured)  ? 
Wines,  oils,  and  fine  meal  were  bought  with  it  to  the  profit  of 
the  sanctuary  (for  the  purpose  of  selling  it  again  to  those  who 
brought  sacrifices).*  So  said  R.  Ishmael.  R.  Aqiba,  however, 
says:  "  Sanctified  moneys  or  contributions  for  the  poor  are  not 
dealt  with  for  profit." 

{d)  What  was  done  with  the  remainder  of  the  money  (taken 
from  the  chests)  ?  It  is  used  for  gold  plate  for  the  decoration 
of  the  Holy  of  Holies.  R.  Ishmael  says:  "The  mentioned 
fruit  (profit  of  the  wines,  oils,  and  fine  meal  sold  in  the  Temple) 
was  for  the  benefit  of  the  altar,  and  the  remainder  of  the  money 
drawn  was  for  service-utensils."  R.  Aqiba  says:  "  The  remain- 
der of  the  money  drawn  was  for  the  benefit  of  the  altar  and 
that  of  the  drink-offerings  was  for  service-utensils."  R.  Hanina, 
the  assistant  chief  of  priests,  says:  "  The  remainder  of  the  drink- 

MiSHNA  b.  *  The  remainder  of  the  Shekalim,  left  over  after  the 
three  cases  had  been  filled,  which  was  called  "  remainder  of  the 
room,"  was  stored  in  a  high  place,  access  to  which  was  very  diffi- 
cult, no  ladder  being  permitted  to  be  used.  Out  of  this  money  all 
the  accessories  for  the  sacrifices,  as  enumerated  in  the  Mishna,  were 
procured.  The  details  of  these  accessories  are  explained  in  Tracts 
Para  and  Yuma. 

Mishna  c.  *  It  is  known  that  all  those  who  brought  sacrifices  were 
obliged  to  purchase  wine,  oil,  and  fine  meal  for  meal-offerings,  and 
all  this  was  purchased  in  the  court  of  the  Temple.  In  the  Palestinian 
Talmud  many  things  are  enumerated,  for  which  purposes  the  balance 
of  the  money  was  used;  for  instance,  the  hiring  of  teachers  to 
instruct  the  priests  in  the  art  of  slaughtering,  in  the  halakhas  per- 
taining to  such  matters,  etc.,  also  for  the  payment  of  those  who  in- 
vestigated blemishes  in  the  sacrifices,  and  a  great  many  other  things 
to  be  found  in  that  chapter  (Halakha  4). 


TRACT   SHEKALIM.  17 

offerings  was  for  the  benefit  of  the  altar  and  that  of  the  money- 
drawn  was  for  service-utensils."  The  two  latter  would  not 
admit  of  the  alleged  gain  from  fruit*  (profit). 

(f)  What  was  done  with  the  remainder  of  the  incense  ?*  At 
first  the  remuneration  of  the  preparers  of  the  incense  was  set 
aside  from  the  treasury;  the  sanctification  of  the  incense  on  hand 
was  then  transferred  to  that  money,  and  the  former  was  then 
given  to  the  preparers  in  lieu  of  compensation^;  it  is  then  bought 
back  from  them  with  the  money  of  the  new  revenue  :  providing  the 
new  revenue  was  on  hand  in  time,  it  was  bought  back  with  such 
money;  otherwise,  the  old  revenue  was  used  for  that  purpose. 

{/)  If  one  devote  his  entire  possessions  in  honor  of  the  Lord, 
and  among  them  are  things  which  are  fit  for  communal  sac- 
rifices {e.g.,  incense),  the  preparers  of  the  incense  should  be 
paid  therewith.  So  teaches  R.  Aqiba.  Ben  Azai  answered 
him  *  :  "  Such  is  not  the  right  mode  of  procedure.    The  compen- 

MiSHNA  d.  *  In  the  preceding  Mishna,  R.  Ishmael  declares,  that 
the  balance  of  the  money  in  the  treasury  is  used  to  purchase  wines, 
oils,  and  fine  meal,  to  be  resold  to  those  bringing  sacrifices,  and  in 
this  Mishna  he  relates  what  is  done  with  the  profits  accruing  from 
such  sales.  R.  Aqiba,  however,  who  would  not  permit  of  selling  the 
things  mentioned  for  profit,  declares  that  the  money  for  the  altar  is 
taken  directly  from  the 'balance  left  over  in  the  treasury;  and  R. 
Hanina  holds,  that  the  balance  of  the  money  drawn  is  used  for  the 
service-utensils. 

Mishna  e.  '  The  remainder  of  the  incense  refers  to  the  amount  of 
incense  left  over  at  the  end  of  the  year.  A  quantity  of  incense  was 
prepared  for  the  whole  year,  and  every  priest  would  use  a  handful  at 
a  time;  but,  as  handfuls  are  not  all  alike,  no  fixed  amount  could  be 
prepared:  hence  the  remainder. 

'  Compensation  for  labor  must  not  be  made  with  sacrificed  articles, 
for  the  sanctification  cannot  be  transferred  to  labor  that  had  already 
been  performed;  it  can  be  transferred,  however,  to  actual  money, 
and  in  consequence  the  subterfuge  for  the  payment  of  the  preparers 
of  the  incense  was  resorted  to  as  stated  in  the  Mishna. 

Mishna/.  *  R.  Aqiba  and  Ben  Azai  differ  in  this  Mishna  as  to 
whether  sanctification  can  be  transferred  to  labor  or  not.  R.  Aqiba 
holds,  that  labor  can  be  compensated  with  sanctified  articles;  but 
Ben  Azai  holds,  that  it  cannot.  According  to  Maimonides  the 
Halakha  prevails  according  to  Ben  Azai,  because  in  the  previous 
Mishna  there  is  a  concurrent  opinion. 


i8  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

sation  of  the  preparers  must  first  be  separated  from  such  pos- 
sessions, then  the  sanctification  of  those  possessions  transferred 
to  money ;  then  give  the  separated  things  to  the  preparers  for 
compensation ;  and,  finally,  buy  them  back  from  them  with 
money  of  the  new  revenue." 

{g)  If  one  devote  his  possessions,  and  there  are  among  them 
cattle  fit  for  the  altar,  male  or  female,  the  male,  according  to  R. 
Eliezer,  shall  be  sold  for  whole-offerings  and  the  female  for 
peace-offerings  to  such  as  are  in  need  of  them;  and  the  pro- 
ceeds of  such  sale,  together  with  the  other  possessions,  shall  be 
devoted  to  the  treasury  for  the  maintenance  of  the  Temple.  R. 
Jehoshua  says:  "  The  male  are  sacrificed  as  whole-offerings,  the 
female  are  sold  to  such  as  are  in  need  of  peace-offerings,  and  the 
proceeds  used  for  the  sacrifice  of  whole-offerings.  The  balance 
of  the  possessions  is  devoted  to  the  maintenance  of  the  Tem- 
ple."^ Said  R.  Aqiba:  "  The  opinion  of  R.  Eliezer  seems  to 
me  to  be  more  proper  than  that  of  R.  Jehoshua;  for  R.  Eliezer 
has  an  even  procedure,  whereas  R.  Jehoshua  divides  it."^  R. 
Papeos  says:  "I  have  heard  that  it  is  done  according  to 
both  teachers;  viz.:  According  to  R.  Eliezer  if  the  owner  who 
devotes  his  possessions  explicitly  mentions  his  cattle,  and 
according  to  R.  Jehoshua  if  he  silently  includes  his  cattle  in 
his  possessions."  ^ 

MiSHNA  g.  *  The  point  of  difference  between  R.  Eliezer  and  R. 
Jehoshua  is  this:  The  former  holds,  that  if  a  man  devoted  all  his 
possessions,  his  intention  was  to  devote  them  for  the  maintenance  of 
the  Temple  only;  while  the  latter  holds,  that  the  intention  was  to 
devote  the  possessions  according  to  their  adaptability.  Hence  if, 
among  the  possessions,  there  were  objects  adapted  for  the  altar,  they 
should  be  devoted  to  the  altar;  if,  however,  these  were  female  cattle, 
which  could  not  be  brought  as  a  whole-offering,  nor,  by  reason  of 
the  absence  of  the  owner,  even  as  a  peace-offering,  such  cattle  should 
be  sold  and  the  proceeds  applied  to  the  purchase  of  whole-offerings. 

'R.  Aqiba  holds  with  R.  Eliezer,  because,  in  his  opinion,  a  man 
who  devotes  all  his  possessions  does  so  with  but  a  single  intention; 
and  this  is  what  he  terms  an  even  procedure. 

'  R.  Papeos  said,  that  if  the  man  devoted  all  his  possessions  to 
the  honor  of  the  Lord,  R.  Jehoshua  would  be  correct,  for  his  posses- 
sions can  be  used  in  honor  of  the  Lord  in  various  ways;  but  if  he 
explicitly  stated  that  he  devoted  his  possessions  for  the  maintenance 
of  the  Temple,  R.  Eliezer's  opinion  is  proper. 


TRACT    SHEKALIM.  19 

{h)  If  one  devote  his  possessions,  and  there  are  among 
them  things  fit  for  the  altar,  such  as  wines,  oils,  and  birds,  says 
R.  Eliezer,  the  latter  things  should  be  sold  to  such  as  need 
offerings  of  these  kinds,  and  the  proceeds  used  for  the  sacrific- 
ing of  whole-offerings ;  the  balance  of  the  possessions  goes  toward 
the  maintenance  of  the  Temple.* 

{i)  Every  thirty  days  the  prices  paid  by  the  treasury  are 
determined.  If  one  contract  to  furnish  flour  at  the  rate  of  four 
Saah  (for  one  Sela),  and  the  price  is  raised  to  three,  he  must 
nevertheless  furnish  the  same  at  four  Saah  (for  one  Sela).^  If  he 
contract  at  the  rate  of  three  and  the  price  fall  to  four,  he  must 
in  that  case  furnish  four,  for  the  Sanctuary  always  has  that  pre- 
rogative. If  the  flour  become  wormy,  it  is  the  loss  of  the  con- 
tractor; and  if  the  wine  become  sour  it  is  also  his  loss,  and  he 
does  not  receive  the  money  for  his  wares  until  the  purchased 
wares  have  been  favorably  accepted  as  sacrifices  at  the  altar.'' 

MiSHNA  k.  *  The  reason  that  R.  Eliezer  decrees  that  wines,  oils, 
and  birds  should  be  sold,  and  whole-offerings  brought  in  their  stead, 
is  because  the  articles  mentioned  cannot  be  redeemed  with  money. 

MiSHNA  /,  *  Every  month,  bids  were  received  from  contractors 
for  the  furnishing  of  the  necessaries  for  the  Temple  and  altar  for  one 
month.  The  lowest  bidder  received  the  contract,  and  it  was  dis- 
tinctly understood  that,  even  if  prices  were  raised  during  the  month, 
his  prices  were  to  remain  as  originally  contracted  for. 

'  The  Palestinian  Talmud  states,  that  the  money  due  the  contrac- 
tors was  paid  them  by  the  priests  immediately  upon  the  latter  receiv. 
ing  the  wares,  for  the  priests  were  very  careful,  and  never  allowed 
flour  to  become  wormy  or  wine  to  spoil. 


CHAPTER  V. 

MISHNA:  {a)  The  following  were  the  heads  of  offices*  in  the 
Sanctuary:  Johanan,  son  of  Pinchas,  keeper  of  the  seals";  A'hia, 
(superintendent)  of  drink-offerings;  Mathia,  son  of  Samuel, 
(superintendent)  of  the  casting  of  lots^;  Petha'hia,  (superinten- 
dent) of  bird-offerings.*  Petha'hia  is  Mordecai,  but  why  do 
they  call  him  Petha'hia  ?  Because  he  used  to  expound  and 
interpret  scriptures,  and  was  master  of  seventy  languages. 
Ben  A'hia  was  (superintendent)  of  the  cures  of  priests  suffering 
with  abdominal  diseases.^     Ne'huniah  was  master  of  the  well.* 


CHAPTER  V. 

MiSHNA  a.  '  The  list  of  officers  enumerated  by  the  Mishna  were 
not  all  officers  at  the  same  time,  but  served  at  different  periods,  and 
the  Mishna  merely  names  the  most  important  and  pious  among  them. 

'  See  Mishna  d,  same  chapter. 

^  Lots  were  cast  for  thef  determination  of  the  turn  of  the  priests 
for  each  particular  service.  The  superintendent  would  keep  a  record 
of  such  as  were  eligible  for  duty,  and  then  cast  lots  for  the  priest 
who  was  to  serve. 

*  Petha'hia  was  superintendent-in-chief  of  all  those  who  had 
charge  of  the  bird-offerings;  these  bird-offerings  were  brought  by 
women  who  had  recently  been  confined;  and  there  were  so  many  of 
them  that  a  record  had  to  be  kept,  who  came  first,  whose  time  was 
nearly  expired,  and  how  much  was  to  be  charged  for  the  offerings. 
Besides  this,  it  often  happened  that  the  birds  became  mixed  and 
required  great  wisdom  to  separate  them  and  recognize  to  whom 
every  bird  belonged,  as  the  changing  of  the  birds  would  make  the 
offering  invalid.     (See  commentary  of  Israel  Lipshuetz.) 

"  Such  diseases  among  priests  were  of  very  frequent  occurrence  and 
inevitable;  for  they  were  dressed  during  services  very  lightly,  being 
allowed  to  wear  only  four  articles  of  apparel;  viz.,  a  linen  shirt,  linen 
pantaloons,  a  linen  cap,  and  a  girdle.  Besides,  they  had  to  walk 
barefoot  on  the  marble  floor,  and  were  constantly  eating  meat  of 
the  sacrifices,  which  had  to  be  eaten  during  a  specified  time.     Hence 

20 


TRACT   SHEKALIM.  21 

Gebini  was  herald.'  Ben  Gabhar  was  turnkey  of  the  gates.^  Ben 
Bebai  was  master  of  the  temple-guard.^  Ben  Arzah  was  mas- 
ter of  the  kettledrums  (which  were  beaten  as  a  signal  for  the 
Levites  to  commence  their  chant).  Higros,  son  of  Levi,  was 
(leader)  of  the  singing.  The  family  of  Garmo  (superintended) 
the  making  of  the  showbreads.'°  The  family  of  Abtinos  (super- 
intended) the  preparing  of  the  incense."  Elazar  (superintended) 
the  making  of  the  curtains.^  Pinchas  superintended  the  vest- 
ments.^^ 

they  needed  many  attendants,  in  order  that,  as  soon  as  one  priest  took 
sick,  a  substitute  was  brought  in  his  place  and  he  was  removed  to  the 
sick  ward.   Ben  A'hia  was  the  superintendent-in-chief  of  these  matters. 

"On  account  of  the  immense  influx  of  people  into  Jerusalem 
three  times  a  year,  the  wells  for  the  supply  of  water,  both  on  the 
roads  and  in  the  city,  had  to  be  looked  after,  and  Ne'huniah  had 
charge  of  this. 

'  The  commencement  of  all  services  had  to  be  heralded,  and  many 
heralds  were  employed.  Gebini  was  herald-in-chief,  and  his  duty 
was  mainly  to  call  out  in  the  morning:  "  Priests,  to  your  duties! 
Levites,  to  your  chants!  Israelites,  to  your  places!"  He  had  so 
powerful  a  voice  that  it  could  be  heard  eight  miles. 

*  He  had  charge  of  the  keys  of  the  gates  and  of  the  men  who 
stood  at  the  gates. 

'  The  gates  of  the  Temple  had  to  be  guarded  day  and  night,  even 
in  times  of  peace.  To  properly  care  for  the  guard  and  to  punish  all 
negligence  in  guarding  the  gates  was  the  duty  of  Ben  Babai. 

'"  For  showbreads,  twelve  loaves  had  to  be  made  every  week,  and 
had  to  be  made  so  that  they  would  keep  fresh  the  entire  week.  For 
further  details,  see  Tract  Tamid.  The  family  of  Garmo  had  charge 
of  this  work  for  generations. 

"  The  incense,  which  was  used  twice  a  day,  had  to  be  prepared 
with  especial  skill  from  many  different  spices,  and  in  proper  propor- 
tions. Further  details  are  also  to  be  found  in  Tract  Tamid.  The 
family  Abtinos  had  charge  of  this  branch  for  many  generations. 

"  The  curtains,  which  were  frequently  changed,  had  to  be  inspected 
as  to  workmanship,  cleanliness,  etc.,  and  this  duty  devolved  upon 
Elazar. 

"  The  vestments  of  the  priests  had  to  be  carefully  examined  as  to 
cleanliness,  and  had  to  be  sent  out  to  be  laundered  regularly.  Many 
rooms  in  the  Temple  were  devoted  to  those  vestments,  and  Pinchas 
had  charge  of  them  all. 

Much  has  been  said  as  to  the  character  of  the  men  enumerated  in 


82  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

{b)  No  less  than  three  treasurers  and  seven  chamberlains 
must  be  appointed,*  and  no  less  than  two  officers  were  put  in 
charge  of  public  moneys.  Exceptions  were  made  in  the  cases 
of  Ben  A'hia,  superintendent  of  the  cures  of  the  sick,  and  Elazar, 
superintendent  of  the  preparation  of  curtains,  because  they  were 
unanimously  elected  by  the  community. 

{c)  There  were  four  seals  in  the  Sanctuary,  inscribed  with 
the  words  Egel  (calf),  Sachar  (ram),  Gdi  (kid),  and  'Houte 
(sinner,  meaning  here  one  covered  with  sores).  Ben  Azai  says, 
that  there  were  five  (seals),  and  the  inscriptions  were  in  Aramaic, 
meaning:  calf,  ram,  kid,  poor  sinner  (one  afiflicted  with  sores), 
and  rich  sinner  (one  afflicted  with  sores).  The  one  inscribed 
with  "  calf"  was  used  for  drink-offerings  brought  with  ofTerings 
of  the  herds,  large  or  small,  male  or  female ;  the  one  inscribed 
with  "  kid  "  was  used  for  drink-offerings  brought  with  offerings 
of  the  flocks,  large  or  small,  male  or  female,  with  the  exception 
of  rams;  the  one  inscribed  with  "  ram  "  served  for  drink-offer- 
ings brought  only  with  rams;  the  seal  inscribed  with  "  sinner" 
served  for  drink-offerings  brought  with  the  three  cattle-offerings 
of  those  afflicted  with  sores.'^ 

the  Mishna,  whether  they  were  priests  themselves,  Levites,  or  ordi- 
nary Israelites.  For  particularized  information  regarding  this  subject, 
we  would  refer  to  "  Die  Priester  und  der  Cultus,"  by  Dr.  Adolf  Biich- 
ler,  Vienna,  1895.  It  is  estimated  that  the  priests  in  Jerusalem 
approached  the  enormous  number  of  twenty  thousand.  Besides, 
there  were  numbers  of  Levites. 

Mishna  b.  *  The  ofificers  of  the  Temple  ranked  as  follows:  The 
king,  the  high  priest,  the  assistant  high  priest  (Sagan),  two  catho- 
]icoses,f  seven  chamberlains  (Amarkolins),  three  treasurers  (Gisbars), 
and,  finally,  many  smaller  officials;  e.g.,  inspectors,  ofificers  of  the 
guard,  etc.  (See  "  Die  Priester  und  der  Cultus,"  pp.  90-117.)  The 
duties  of  each  officer  are  described  in  Tamid  and  Yuma. 

Mishna  c.  *  With  every  sacrifice  that  was  offered,  wine  and  meal 


f  "  Catholicos"  is  here  used  in  the  sense  of  patriarch  or  head,  which  term  still 
retains  a  similar  meaning  in  the  "  Ecclesiastical  History  of  the  Armenian  Church," 
deriving  its  original  meaning  from  the  Greek  xa'ioXiHoi — general  or  universal.  In 
the  latter  sense  it  was  adopted  at  a  very  early  period  by  the  Christian  church. 
In  the  exclusive  sense  of  denoting  the  church  as  the  "  depository  of  universally 
received  doctrine  in  contrast  with  heretical  sects  "  it  is  still  improperly  retained  by  the 
Roman  Catholic  Church.  I  am  surprised  to  find  no  mention  of  the  officers  of  this 
name  and  function  under  the  appropriate  title  anywhere  in  the  "  Encyc,  Brit." 


TRACT   SHEKALIM.  23 

{d)  One  who  desired  to  bring  drink-offerings,  for  instance, 
went  to  Johanan,  who  was  keeper  of  the  seals,  paid  his  money, 
and  received  a  seal ;  he  then  went  to  A'hia,  who  had  charge  of 
the  drink-offerings,  gave  him  the  seal,  and  received  the  drink- 
offering.  In  the  evening  the  two  ofificers  came  together,  when 
A'hia  turned  over  the  seal  and  received  instead  the  money.  If 
there  was  too  much  money,  it  belonged  to  the  Sanctuary;  if  too 
little,  Johanan  had  to  supply  the  deficit :  for  the  sanctuary  had 
that  prerogative. 

{e)  One  who  lost  his  seal  had  to  wait  until  evening.  If  there 
was  a  surplus  suflficient  to  cover  the  seal,*  he  was  given  the 
drink-offering  for  that  amount ;  otherwise,  he  did  not  receive  it. 
The  date  of  the  day  was  on  the  seal  to  prevent  fraud. 

{/)  There  were  two  chambers  in  the  sanctuary.     One  was 

were  brought  in  accordance  with  the  biblical  commandment  to  that 
effect,  and  in  quantities  prescribed  by  the  ordinances.  As  the  drink 
and  meal  offerings  were  bought  in  the  Temple,  the  person  bringing 
the  sacrifice  would  receive  a  seal  from  the  priest  which  he  would 
exchange  for  the  necessary  quantity  of  wine  and  meal.  The  drink- 
offerings  with  goats  and  sheep  were  the  same,  hence  the  seal 
inscribed  "kid"  served  for  both.  One  who  brought  a  ram,  how- 
ever, which  required  a  larger  quantity  of  wine  and  meal,  would 
receive  a  separate  seal,  inscribed  "ram."  As  for  offerings  of  the 
herds,  they  were  all  equal,  small  or  large,  male  or  female;  hence  the 
seal  inscribed  "  calf  "  sufficed  for  all.  Those  who  were  aiiflicted  with 
sores,  and  had  to  bring  two  rams  and  one  sheep,  received  a  seal 
inscribed  "sin"  (which  had  the  hidden  purpose  of  signifying  that 
sores  were  the  consequence  of  sin).  The  poor  sinners,  who  had  only 
to  bring  one  sheep,  two  doves,  and  one-tenth  of  an  ephah  of  meal 
and  one  lug  of  oil,  without  any  wine,  were,  according  to  the  opinion 
of  the  sages,  not  in  need  of  a  seal,  because  the  seal  inscribed  "  kid," 
which  they  received  when  bringing  the  sheep,  was  sufficient  for  the 
other  purpose.  Ben  Azai,  however,  says,  that  another  seal  was 
necessary,  and  that  an  extra  seal  marked  "  poor  sinner"  was  given, 
which  was  intended  as  a  sign  that  no  wine  was  necessary.  The  tra- 
dition of  Ben  Azai,  that  the  seals  were  inscribed  in  Aramaic  charac- 
ters, is  also  true,  because,  prior  to  the  introduction  of  the  Greek 
language,  all  the  writing  in  the  Temple  was  done  in  Aramaic.  (See 
the  mentioned  work  of  Buchler.) 

MiSHNA  e.  *  Providing  only  the  surplus  amounted  to  exactly  the 
amount  paid  for  the  seal. 


24  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

called  chamber  of  the  silent,  the  other  chamber  of  utensils.  In 
the  former,  devout  men  secretly  gave  charitable  gifts,  and  the 
poor  of  good  family  received  there  secretly  their  sustenance.  In 
the  other  chamber,  every  one  who  desired  to  offer  a  utensil  vol- 
untarily, laid  it  down.  Every  thirty  days  the  treasurers  opened 
the  chamber,  and  every  utensil  found  to  be  fit  for  the  mainte- 
nance of  the  Temple  was  preserved,  while  the  others  were  sold 
and  the  proceeds  went  to  the  treasury  for  the  maintenance  of 
the  Temple.* 

Mishna/,  *In  the  Palestinian  Talmud  in  this  chapter  (Halakha 
15),  many  legends  are  related  illustrating  this  Mishna. 


CHAPTER  VI. 

MISHNA:  (a)  There  were  thirteen  curved  chests'  and  thir- 
teen tables  in  the  Sanctuary,  and  thirteen  prostrations  took 
place  in  the  Sanctuary.  The  family  of  R.  Gamaliel  and  of  R. 
Hananiah,  chief  of  the  priests,  made  fourteen  prostrations;  this 
extra  prostration  was  made  towards  the  wood-chamber,'^  because, 
according  to  an  ancestral  tradition,  the  ark  was  hidden  there. 

(d)  Once  a  priest '  was  engaged  there,  and  he  noticed  that 
one  of  the  paving-stones  on  one  place  appeared  different  from 
the  others.  He  went  out  to  tell  others  of  it;  but  he  had  not 
yet  finished  speaking,  when  he  gave  up  the  ghost ;  thereby  it  was 
known  to  a  certainty  that  the  ark  of  the  covenant  ^  was  hidden 
there. 

(c)  In  what  direction  were  the  prostrations  made  ?  Four  to- 
wards the  north,  four  towards  the  south,  three  towards  the  east, 


CHAPTER  VI. 

MiSHNA  a.  '  The  thirteen  chests  were  used  as  explained  in  Mishna 
e,  and  they  were  shaped  like  horns,  so  that  a  hand  could  not  be 
inserted  from  the  top.  This  Mishna  places  the  number  of  everything 
at  thirteen  (on  account  of  the  thirteen  kinds  of  mercy  attributed  to 
God).  R.  Ishmael  composed  the  thirteen  rules  with  which  the  Law 
is  expounded. 

'  The  location  of  the  wood-chamber  can  be  determined  in  Tract 
Midoth. 

Mishna  d.  '  The  priest  was  a  man  of  blemish  (deformed),  and 
could  not  take  part  in  the  sacrifices,  but  was  allowed  to  select  and 
peel  the  wood  used  at  the  altar. 

'  The  ark  was  hidden  during  the  existence  of  the  first  Temple  in 
order  to  save  it  from  the  Babylonians,  after  all  hope  had  been  aban- 
doned, and  its  hiding-place  was  underground.  The  priests  who  subse- 
quently took  charge  probably  noticed  some  sign  made  by  the  former 
generation  when  the  ark  was  hidden,  and  this  particular  priest  died 
as  a  consequence  of  his  attempt  to  reveal  the  secret. 

25. 


26  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

and  two  towards  the  Occident;  i.e.,  towards  the  thirteen  gates.* 
The  southern  gates  were  near  a  corner  of  the  western.  These 
were:  The  upper  gate,  the  fire  gate,  the  firstling  gate,  and  the 
water  gate.  Why  is  it  called  water  gate  ?  Because  a  glass  of 
water  was  carried  through  it  for  the  sprinkling  of  the  altar  on  the 
Feast  of  Booths.  R.  Eliezer  son  of  Jacob  says :  At  that  gate 
the  waters  (flowing  from  the  Holy  of  Holies)  commence  to  flow 
rapidly  downwards,  until  they  again  flow  out  under  the  thres- 
hold of  the  Temple.  Opposite  there  were  the  northern  gates, 
near  the  other  corner  of  the  western.  These  were:  The  door  of 
Jekhaniah,  the  gate  of  sacrifice,  the  women's  gate,  and  the  music- 
gate  ;  and  why  is  the  first  one  called  the  gate  of  Jekhaniah  ? 
Because  Jekhaniah  went  through  it,  when  he  went  into  exile. 
In  the  east  was  the  gate  Nikanur,  which  also  had  two  small 
doors,^  one  to  the  right  and  the  other  to  the  left ;  lastly,  there 
were  two  in  the  west,  which  were  nameless. 

{d)  Thirteen  tables  were  in  the  Sanctuary:  Eight  marble 
ones  in  the  slaughter-house,  on  which  the  entrails  were  washed. 
Two  to  the  west  of  the  altar-sheep,  one  marble  and  one  silver: 
on  the  marble  one  the  sacrificial  pieces  were  placed,  and  on  the 
silver  table  the  utensils  were  placed.  Two  in  the  corridor  on 
the  inside  of  the  Temple  entrance,  a  marble  table  and  a  golden 
one :  on  the  marble  one  the  showbreads  were  placed  at  the  time 
they  were  brought  in,  and  on  the  golden  one  when  they  were 
taken  out ;  because  the  principle  is,  that  the  veneration  of  the 

MisHNA  c.  '  That  there  were  thirteen  gates  in  the  Temple  is 
vouched  for  by  Abba  Jose  ben  Johanan;  but  the  sages  declare,  that 
there  were  only  seven  gates  and  that  the  thirteen  prostrations  were 
made  in  the  direction  of  the  twelve  breaches  made  by  the  Greeks  in 
the  walls  of  the  Temple  at  the  time  of  the  Maccabees,  and  towards 
the  altar;  the  twelve  breaches  had  been  repaired,  and  each  prostra- 
tion was  a  mark  of  gratitude  for  the  good  fortune.  From  the  fact, 
however,  that  the  Mishna  cites  nine  of  the  gates  by  their  names  and 
describes  their  location,  it  seems  that  Abba  Jose  ben  Johanan  was 
correct,  and  had  his  knowledge  of  the  matter  from  tradition. 

'Concerning  the  gate  Nikanur,  it  is  said  that  the  two  doors  were 
made  in  the  gate  proper,  because  the  gates  were  very  heavy  and  it 
required  a  number  of  priests  and  Levites  to  open  them  (as  explained 
in  Tract  Tamid).  Hence,  in  order  to  facilitate  entrance  and  egress, 
the  two  doors  were  added. 


TRACT    SHEKALIM.  27 

sacred  must  be  heightened  and  not  lessened.*  Lastly,  there 
was  one  golden  table  in  the  Temple  itself,  upon  which  the  show- 
breads  were  constantly  lying. 

{e)  Thirteen  curv^ed  chests  were  in  the  Sanctuary.^  On  them 
was  written :  Old  shekalim,  new  shekalim,  bird-offerings,  doves 
for  whole-offerings,  wood,  incense,  gold  for  the  cover  of  the 
Holy  of  Holies.  Six  were  for  donations  in  general.^  The  term 
new  shekalim  is  used  for  those  paid  annually.  Old  shekalim 
were  those  which  were  paid  by  men  who  had  failed  to  pay 
them  in  the  year  when  they  were  due,  and  paid  them  in  the 
following  year.  "  In  those  marked  '  bird-offerings,'  the  money 
for  turtle-doves  was  deposited;  in  those  marked  '  doves,'  money 
for  young  doves  was  deposited :  but  they  were  all  whole-offer- 
ings," So  says  R.  Jehudah.  The  sages  say:  "  In  the  former, 
money  for  both  sin-offerings  and  whole-offerings  was  placed,  and 
in  the  latter  only  for  whole-offerings."  ^ 

MiSHNA  d.  *  Because  the  showbreads  were  lying  on  a  golden  table 
in  the  Temple,  they  were  not  to  be  placed  on  marble  tables  when 
taken  out. 

MiSHNA  e.  '  When  a  man  paid  his  half-shekel  in  Jerusalem,  he 
would  go  to  the  Temple  and  throw  his  half-shekel  into  the  chest 
marked  new  shekalim.  Into  the  chest  marked  old  shekalim,  such  as 
had  not  given  pledges  for  the  payment  of  the  Shekalim,  and  came 
voluntarily  to  pay  same,  would  throw  their  half-shekel.  One  who 
wished  to  donate  money  for  specific  purposes,  e.g.,  for  bird-offerings, 
etc.,  would  deposit  the  money  in  the  respectively  marked  chests. 

'  Only  one  of  these  chests  was  for  donations  in  general.  The 
other  five  were  marked  as  follows:  One,  "  For  the  remainder  of  a 
sin-offering,"  i.e.,  money  left  over  from  a  sum  originally  intended  for 
the  purchase  of  a  sin-offering,  was  thrown  into  this  chest  and  was 
used  only  for  sin-offerings;  the  second,  "  for  the  remainder  of  guilt- 
offerings";  the  third,  "  for  the  remainder  of  bird-offerings  of  women 
who  had  been  confined  and  of  persons  suffering  from  venereal  dis- 
eases"; the  fourth,  "  for  the  remainder  of  Nazarite-offerings  ";  and 
the  fifth,  "for  the  remainder  of  offerings  of  those  afflicted  with 
sores."  If  any  one  had  money  left  over  from  such  offerings,  he 
deposited  it  in  the  respectively  marked  cases.  The  contents  of  the 
chest  marked  "  for  donations  in  general  "  were  used  for  the  mainte- 
nance of  the  Temple.     (Maimonides.) 

'  R.  Jehudah  means  to  say,  that  a  man  who  throws  money  into 
the  chest  marked   "for  bird-offerings"   intends  that  his  offerings 


28  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

{/)  If  one  vow,  "  I  will  furnish  wood  for  the  altar,"  he  must 
not  furnish  less  than  two  cords.  If  one  vow  (to  furnish)  in- 
cense, he  must  not  furnish  less  than  a  handful.  If  one  vow  (to 
furnish)  gold  coin,  he  must  not  furnish  less  than  a  Dinar.^  Six 
(chests)  were  for  voluntary  offerings.  What  was  done  with  these? 
Whole-offerings  were  bought  for  these,  the  meat  of  which  was 
sacrificed  to  God,  but  the  hides  belonged  to  the  priests.^  The 
following  explanation  was  made  by  Jehoiada  the  high  priest,  of 
the. expression  [Lev.  v.  19] :  "  It  is  a  trespass-offering;  he  hath, 
in  trespassing,  trespassed  against  the  Lord  " :  The  rule  is:  With 
everything  coming  in  under  the  name  of  sin  or  guilt  offering, 
whole-offerings  are  bought,  the  meat  of  which  is  offered  up  to 
God  and  the  hides  of  which  belong  to  the  priests ;  hence  the 
two  expressions:  A  guilt-offering  for  God  and  a  guilt-offering 
for  the  priests,  as  it  is  written  [II  Kings  xii.  16] :  "  The  money 
for  trespass-offerings  and  the  money  for  sin-offerings  was  not 
brought  into  the  house  of  the  Lord :  it  belonged  to  the  priests." 

should  be  for  the  altar  only,  and  not  for  the  benefit  of  those  who  eat 
sacrifices,  while  the  sages  differ  with  him,  as  stated  in  the  Mishna. 

Mishna/.  'In  the  preceding  Mishna  the  remainder  of  offerings 
is  treated  of,  and  it  made  no  difference  how  little  the  remainder  was, 
it  could  be  thrown  into  the  chest.  In  this  Mishna,  the  case  of  a  man 
who  vows  to  bring  an  offering  is  spoken  of,  and  a  minimum  value  is 
placed. 

*  Incidentally  we  are  told  that  the  meat  of  the  sacrifices  belonged 
to  the  Divinity,  while  the  hides  belonged  to  the  priests;  and  what 
immense  sums  were  realized  from  the  sale  of  such  hides  may  be 
gleaned  from  the  mentioned  "  Priester  und  Cultus,"  by  Buchler. 


CHAPTER   VII. 

MISHNA:  (a)  If  money  is  found  between  the  chest  marked 
"  Shekalim  "  and  that  marked  "  voluntary  offerings,"  it  belongs 
to  the  chest  marked  "  Shekalim  "  if  it  lies  nearer  to  the  same, 
and  to  the  one  marked  "  voluntary  offerings  "  if  it  be  nearer 
t^aL  So  also  does  it  belong  to  the  voluntary  offerings  if  it  be 
found  midway  between  the  two  chests.  Money  found  lying  be- 
tween the  chests  marked  "  wood  "  and  "  incense  "  belongs,  if  it 
be  nearer  the  former,  to  the  former;  if  nearer  the  latter  to  the 
latter,  and  also  to  the  latter  if  found  midway  between  the  two. 
Money  found  lying  between  the  chest  marked  "  bird-offerings  " 
and  the  one  marked  "  doves  "  for  whole-offerings  belongs  to  the 
former  if  it  be  nearer  the  former;  and  if  nearer  the  latter  to  the 
latter,  and  also  to  the  latter  if  midway  between  the  two.  Money 
found  between  ordinary  moneys  and  the  moneys  of  the  second 
tithes  belongs,  if  nearer  the  former  to  the  former;  if  nearer  the 
latter  to  the  latter,  and  also  to  the  latter  if  found  midway  be- 
tween the  two.*  The  rule  is:  One  must  be  guided  by  the  prox- 
imity, even  in  the  case  of  the  less  important;  but  in  the  event 
of  equidistance,  (one  must  be  guided)  by  the  greater  impor- 
tance (of  the  moneys). 

(d)  Money  found  (in  Jerusalem)  on  the  place  of  the  cattle- 
dealers  is  regarded  as  second  tithe. ^     Money  found  on  the  Tem- 

CHAPTER   VII. 

MisHNA  a.  *  There  are  different  degrees  of  sanctification  attached 
to  the  several  kinds  of  offerings,  some  greater  and  some  lesser.  In 
order  not  to  appropriate  money  belonging  to  an  offering  of  a  greater 
degree  of  sanctification  to  one  of  a  lesser  degree,  it  was  decided 
that  proximity  of  the  stray  coins  should  govern  the  disposition  of 
such  money.  Where,  however,  the  money  was  equidistant,  it  was 
appropriated  to  the  offerings  of  a  greater  degree  of  sanctification, 
and  the  degree  may  be  determined  from  the  Mishna  itself. 

MisHNA  iJ.  'Because  it  was  rare  for  priests  to  visit  the  cattle- 
market,  but  the  Israelites  who  at  any  time  came  to  buy  cattle  for 

29 


30  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

pie-mount  is  ordinary.^  Other  money  found  in  Jerusalem  gen- 
erally, during  the  festivals,  is  regarded  as  second  tithe ;  at  other 
times  of  the  year  as  ordinary.^ 

{c)  Meat  found  in  the  outer  court  (of  the  Temple)  is  consid- 
ered whole-offering  if  in  complete  joints;  if  cut  in  pieces  it  is 
sin-offering.^  Meat  found  in  the  city  is  considered  peace-offer- 
ing.'' All  such  meat  must  be  laid  aside  for  putrefaction,  and 
then  be  burned  in  the  crematory.  Meat  found  anywhere  else  in 
the  land  is  prohibited  (to  be  used)  as  carrion,  if  found  in  whole 
joints ;  if  found  cut  in  pieces,  it  may  be  eaten ;  and  during  the 
festivals,  when  a  great  deal  of  meat  is  on  hand,  even  whole  joints 
may  be  eaten. ^ 

(d)  Cattle  found  all  the  way  from  Jerusalem  to  Migdal  Eder, 
and  in  the  same  vicinity  in  all  directions,  are  considered,  if  male, 
as  whole- offerings,  and  if  female  as  peace-offerings.     R.  Jehudah 

sacrifices  generally  bought  the  same  with  the  money  exchanged  for 
their  second  tithes. 

'  Money  found  on  the  Temple-mount  was  presumably  dropped 
there  by  priests.  It  never  occurred  that  a  priest  should  carry  money 
belonging  to  the  treasury  about  with  him;  for  even  if  he  drew  some 
money  for  the  purpose  of  purchasing  necessaries,  he  immediately 
turned  it  over  to  the  vender.  Hence,  any  money  which  a  priest  may 
have  lost  was  his  own,  and  ordinary. 

'  During  the  festivals,  when  all  the  Israelites  congregated  in  Jeru- 
salem, they  brought  money  only  to  expend  for  their  second  tithes, 
hence  money  found  in  any  place  is  considered  as  second  tithes. 

MisHNA  c.  '  Because  whole-offerings  were  sacrificed  in  complete 
joints,  but  sin-offerings,  which  were  eaten  by  the  priests,  were  usu- 
ally cut  in  pieces.  Neither  must  be  eaten,  because  it  might  be  that 
the  latter  had  been  left  over  from  the  preceding  day  and  should  be 
burned;  but  the  distinction  is  made  simply  in  case  one  had  eaten  of 
the  meat  that  was  cut  up.  If  he  had  eaten  of  the  complete  joint,  he 
was  certainly  guilty,  but  if  he  had  eaten  of  the  cut  meat,  it  could  not 
be  said  positively  that  he  was  guilty. 

'  This  must  also  not  be  eaten,  because  it  may  have  lain  more  than 
two  days  and  a  night;  but  if  it  is  eaten,  no  one  is  guilty. 

'Incidentally  the  rule  is  laid  down  as  to  meat  found  anywhere  in 
Palestine.  If  the  meat  is  found  in  whole  joints,  it  is  presumed  to  be 
carrion  left  for  dogs,  and  must  not  be  eaten.  During  the  festivals, 
when  meat  is  plentiful,  it  is  presumed  to  be  slaughtered  meat,  and 
may  be  eaten. 


TRACT   SHEKALIM.  31 

says:  "  If  they  are  fit  for  Passover-offerings  they  may  be  used 
for  such  purpose,  providing  Passover  is  not  more  than  thirty 
days  off."  ^ 

{e)  In  former  days,  the  finder  of  such  cattle  was  pledged 
until  he  brought  the  drink-offerings  belonging  to  such  sacrifices ; 
every  finder,  however,  letting  such  cattle  stand  and  going  on  his 
way,  the  high  court  decreed,  that  the  costs  of  the  drink-offer- 
ings belonging  thereto  be  defrayed  out  of  the  public  money. 

{/)  R.  Simeon  says:  Seven  decrees  were  promulgated  by 
that  court,  and  the  latter  was  one  of  them.  Further:  If  a  non- 
Israelite  send  whole-offerings  with  the  necessary  drink-offerings 
from  over  the  sea,  they  are  offered  up ;  but  if  sent  without  the 
necessary  drink-offerings,  the  costs  of  the  latter  are  defrayed 
from  public  money.  If,  again,  a  proselyte  died  and  left  offer- 
ings, the  drink-offerings,  if  also  left  by  him,  are  offered  up  with 
the  others;  if  not  left,  the  costs  of  same  are  defrayed  out  of 
public  money.  It  was  also  a  decree  of  the  court,  that  in  the 
event  of  a  high  priest  dying,  the  necessary  meat-offering  [Levit- 
icus vi.  13]  should  be  paid  for  out  of  the  public  treasury.  R. 
Jehudah,  however,  declared,  that  this  should  be  done  at  the  ex- 
pense of  the  heirs.  In  both  cases  a  tenth  of  an  ephah  should 
be  offered. 

(^)  Further,  that  the  priests  may  (at  the  sacrificial  meals) 
make  use  of  the  salt  and  the  wood  (from  the  sanctuary) ;  that 
the  priests  do  not  commit  a  breach  of  trust  when  misusing  the 
ashes  of  the  red  heifer^ ;  lastly,  that  the  public  treasury  reimburse 

MiSHNA  d.  *  R.  Jehudah  states,  that  if  the  animal  found  was  a 
yearling  and  a  male,  it  is  considered  a  Passover-offering,  but  may  be 
sacrificed  only  as  a  peace-offering,  because  a  Passover-offering  must 
be  intended  for  a  stipulated  number  of  persons.  (See  Exod.  xii.  4.) 
The  sages,  however,  say,  that  on  account  of  the  number  of  whole- 
offerings  which  were  brought  at  the  time,  the  animal  found  must  not 
be  eaten,  for  fear  lest  it  be  intended  for  a  whole-offering  and  a  grave 
offence  be  committed.  Hence  it  should  be  sacrificed  as  a  whole- 
offering  only. 

MiSHNA  g.  '  It  was  not  allowed  to  appropriate  any  part  of  a  sac- 
rifice designated  for  some  special  use  for  any  other  purpose.  If  this 
was  done,  however,  (unintentionally,)  it  was  considered  a  trespass, 
and  a  trespass-offering  had  to  be  sacrificed  as  expiation  for  the  sin. 
The  ashes  of  the  red  heifer  did  not  come  under  the  above  ruling 


32  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

for  paid  bird-offerings  that  had  become  unfit. ^  R.  Jose,  how- 
ever, says:  "  He  who  contracts  for  the  furnishing  of  the  bird- 
offerings  must  reimburse  for  the  spoilt." 

previously  (for  reason,  see  Siphri),  but  on  account  of  the  frequent 
misuse  of  those  ashes  a  decree  was  promulgated  placing  them  under 
the  same  ruling  as  other  parts  of  sacrifices,  which  were  not  to  be  mis- 
appropriated. Subsequently,  this  Mishna  teaches  that,  there  being 
no  further  necessity  for  the  precautionary  measure,  the  decree  was 
reversed  and  the  ashes  restored  to  their  former  insignificance.  This 
was  included  among  the  seven  decrees. 

^  A  special  decree  had  to  be  promulgated  to  cover  this  case.  Had 
this  not  been  done,  contractors  would  have  refused  to  furnish  birds 
for  offerings,  because  there  were  very  many  birds  used,  and  it  was 
burdensome  to  properly  care  for  them.  Still,  R.  Jose  does  not  agree 
to  this,  claiming  that  the  contractor  might  use  it  for  other  purposes 
and  thus  save  the  Sanctuary  the  loss.  According  to  Maimonides,  the 
Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Jose. 


CHAPTER   VIII. 

MISHNA:  {a)  All  spittle^  to  be  found  in  Jerusalem  is  con- 
sidered clean,  except  such  as  is  found  at  the  upper  market  (for 
this  place  was  secluded  and  those  afflicted  with  venereal  diseases 
were  in  the  habit  of  going  there).  Such  is  the  teaching  of  R. 
Meir.  The  sages  say:  In  the  middle  of  the  street  it  is  at  ordi- 
nary times  unclean,  and  at  the  sides  of  the  streets,  clean.  Dur- 
ing the  festivals,  spittle  found  in  the  middle  of  the  street  is 
clean;  at  the  sides  it  is  unclean,  because  such  as  are  unclean 
on  account  of  their  minority  usually  walk  at  the  sides  of  the 
street. 

{b)  All  utensils  found  on  the  way  towards  the  plunge-bath, 
in  Jerusalem,  are  unclean  ;  those  found  on  the  way  from  the 
plunge-bath  are  clean :  for  they  were  not  carried  down  to  the 
plunge-bath  the  same  way  that  these  were  carried  up  from  the 
plunge-bath.  So  teaches  R.  Meir.  R.  Jose  says:  "All  are 
clean,  with  the  exception  of  such  baskets,  spades,  and  pickaxes 
as  are  used  for  the  bones  of  the  dead."  * 


CHAPTER  VIII. 

MiSHNA  a.  '  Concerning  this  spittle,  see  Leviticus  xv.  8.  It  being 
impossible  that,  of  all  the  people  congregated  in  Jerusalem  at  the 
times  of  the  festivals,  there  should  not  be  some  who  had  running 
issues  and  whose  spittle  was  unclean,  regulations  were  made  where 
such  men  were  to  walk  and  where  not.  These  regulations  are  cited 
by  the  Mishna.  R.  Meir  said,  that  the  upper  market  was  the  place 
designated  for  them,  but  the  sages  differ  with  him,  and  say,  that  the 
regulation  was  for  the  healthy  men  to  walk  in  the  middle  of  the 
street  and  the  unclean  at  the  sides  during  the  festivals;  but  the 
whole  year,  the  order  was  reversed.  It  is  therefore  self-evident,  that, 
wherever  the  unclean  walk,  one  is  liable  to  contract  uncleanness. 

MiSHNA  b.  *  This  Mishna  is  explained  by  Maimonides  and 
translated  by  Yost  in  a  different  manner  than  we  have  rendered  it; 
namely:  *'  All  utensils  found  wrong  side  up  on  the  way  to  the  plunge- 
bath  are  unclean,  and  those  found  right  side  up  are  clean."  This 
3  33 


34  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

{c)  If  a  butchering-knife  be  found  on  the  fourteenth  day  of 
Nissan,  a  Passover-offering  may  be  slaughtered  with  it  forthwith. 
If  it  be  found  on  the  thirteenth,  it  must  be  again  submerged.* 
A  severing-knife  must  be  submerged  both  if  found  on  the  thir- 
teenth or  fourteenth.  If  the  fourteenth,  however,  fall  on  a 
Sabbath,  it  may  be  used  for  slaughtering  forthwith ;  so  also  if 
it  be  found  on  the  fifteenth :  if  it  be  found  together  with  a 
butchering-knife,  it  is  treated  just  like  the  latter. 

{d)  If  a  curtain  in  the  Sanctuary  become  defiled  through  some 
minor  uncleanness,^  it  is  submerged  on  the  inside  of  the  outer 
court,  and  may  be  put  back  in  its  place;  if  it  become  defiled 
through  a  principal  uncleanness,  it  must  be  submerged  on  the 
outside  and  then  stretched  on  the  rampart,  because  sunset  must 
be  awaited.  At  the  time  it  is  submerged  for  the  first  time  (when 
new),  it  should  be  spread  out  on  the  roof  of  the  gallery,  in  order 
that  the  people  may  see  the  beauty  of  the  work, 

{e)  R.  Simeon,  son  of  Gamaliel,  says  in  the  name  of  R.  Sim- 
eon, son  of  the  assistant  high  priest,  that  the  curtain  was  one 

explanation  is  very  complicated,  and  not  in  accordance  with  the 
literal  text  and  other  sources  of  explanation.  Hence  we  simply 
translated  the  literal  text  and  deem  it  correct.  As  for  the  last  three 
articles,  they  are  always  unclean,  on  account  of  being  used  for  bones 
of  the  dead;  hence,  in  our  opinion,  they  were  never  submerged. 
(See  also  commentary  of  Israel  Lipshuetz,  who  also  interprets  it 
according  to  our  explanation.) 

MiSHNA  r.  *  A  butchering-knife,  being  in  constant  use,  is  always 
considered  clean,  and  hence  there  is  no  necessity  of  submerging  it. 
If,  however,  it  be  found  on  the  thirteenth,  when  there  is  still  one 
day's  time,  it  should  be  submerged  for  the  sake  of  precaution.  A 
severing-knife,  however,  is  considered  the  same  as  any  other  vessel, 
and  is  treated  accordingly. 

MiSHNA  d.  '  For  the  explanation  of  the  term  "  minor  uncleanness," 
as  used  in  this  Mishna,  it  is  necessary  to  state  the  different  degrees 
of  uncleanness,  which  are  as  follows:  A  corpse  is  called  "  the  grand- 
parent of  uncleanness."  One  who  touches  a  corpse  becomes  "a 
father  of  uncleanness";  anything  touching  the  latter  is,  in  turn,  "a 
child  of  (or  first  of)  uncleanness";  anything  touched  by  this  latter 
is  a  "second  of  uncleanness";  and  so  forth,  "a  third"  and  "a 
fourth."  (See  Tract  Taharoth.)  In  this  Mishna  a  minor  uncleanness 
refers  to  a  first  of  uncleanness,  and  a  principal  uncleanness  to  a 
father  of  uncleanness. 


TRACT   SHEKALIM.  35 

span  thick,  woven  on  seventy-two  warp-cords,  each  cord  twisted 
out  of  twenty  threads ;  it  was  forty  ells  long  and  twenty  ells 
wide,  and  made  (worth)  of  eighty-two  myriads  (Dinars).*  Two 
such  curtains  were  made  yearly :  three  hundred  priests  were  re- 
quired to  submerge  it. 

(/)  If  meat  of  the  Holy  of  Holies*  became  defiled,  be  it 
through  a  minor  or  a  principal  uncleanness,  in  the  corridor  or  on 
the  outside,  according  to  the  school  of  Shamai  it  must  all  be 
burnt  in  the  court  (in  a  place  appointed  for  that  purpose),  except 
such  as  had  been  defiled  by  a  principal  uncleanness  on  the  out- 
side (of  the  court);  according  to  the  school  of  Hillel,  every- 
thing is  burnt  on  the  outside  except  such  as  had  been  defiled  by 
a  minor  uncleanness  on  the  inside. 

{g)  R.  Eliezer  says:  "Anything  that  has  become  defiled 
through  a  principal  uncleanness,  on  the  outside  or  on  the  in- 
side, is  burnt  on  the  outside ;  anything  that  has  become  defiled 
through  a  minor  uncleanness,  either  on  the  inside  or  the  outside, 
must  be  burnt  on  the  inside."  R.  Aqiba  says:  "  In  the  place 
where  a  thing  became  defiled,  there  must  it  also  be  burnt." 

{h)  The  joints  of  the  daily  sacrifice  were  laid  down  under- 
neath the  half  of  the  altar-stairs  on  the  westerly  (according  to 
others  on  the  easterly)  side ;  those  of  the  additional  offerings  on 
the  easterly  (others  say  on  the  westerly)  side.  The  sacrifices  of 
the  new  moon  were  placed  above  the  railing  (others  say  beneath) 
on  the  altar.  ^  The  payment  of  Shekalim  was  only  obligatory 
during  the  time  that  the  Temple  stood ;  the  tithes  from  grain, 
cattle,  and  the  deliverance  of  the  firstlings  were  in  force  during 
the  existence  of  the  Temple  and  even  after  the  Temple.^ — If 

MiSHNA  e.  *  The  Palestinian  Talmud  asserts,  that  the  amount  of 
the  cost  of  and  the  number  of  priests  required  to  submerge  the  cur- 
tain is  somewhat  exaggerated;  but,  according  to  Dr.  Biichler's 
"  Priester  und  Cultus,"  the  number  of  priests  is  not  an  exaggeration; 
and  as  for  the  cost,  if  the  smallest  existing  coin  be  used  for  calcula- 
tion (as  in  former  times  the  sou  in  France,  so  also  was  the  myriad 
mentioned  in  the  Mishna),  not  even  the  sum  will  be  exaggerated. 

MiSHNA  /.  *For  instance,  the  meat  of  the  sacrifice  mentioned  in 
Leviticus  vii.  6. 

Mishna  h.  '  This  will  be  explained  in  Tract  Midoth. 

'  Because  the  Levites  received  their  sustenance  from  this  source, 
and  having  inherited  no  land  from  their  ancestors,  they  were  sup- 


36  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

one  sanctify  Shekalim  or  firstlings,  they  are  considered  sanctified. 
R.  Simeon  says:  "  If  one  say,  firstlings  shall  be  holy,  they  are 
not  sanctified  (because  no  Temple  exists)," 

ported  even  after  the  destruction  of  the  Temple  by  the  same  means. 
The  details  will  be  found  in  Tracts  Becharath,  Maasroth,  etc. 


APPENDIX   TO   CHAPTER   VI.,    MISHNA  a. 

From  the  teaching  of  this  Mishna,  we  may  conclude  that  the 
number  system  of  Pythagoras  was  known  and  prevailed  in  the 
times  of  the  Sages  of  the  Mishna,  and  accordingly  the  number 
13  was  deemed  inauspicious  even  in  the  earliest  days. 

Therefore  many  religious  ceremonies  were  established  with 
the  express  view  of  convincing  the  people  of  the  absurdity  of 
their  belief. 

It  also  seems  probable  that  the  Sages  themselves  entertained 
the  superstition,  and  that  they  adopted  the  number  13  in  the 
religious  ceremonies  as  a  cure  for  the  mischief  believed  to  have 
been  produced  by  the  inauspicious  number. 


TRACT    ROSH    HASHANA 

(NEW    YEAR). 


INTRODUCTION  TO  TRACT  ROSH  HA- 
SHANA  (NEW  YEAR'S  DAY). 

Notwithstanding  the  fact  that  in  the  history  of  every 
nation,  especially  such  as  has  ever  attained  to  an  established 
form  of  government,  the  calendar  is  a  matter  of  great  impor- 
tance, the  Scriptures  do  not  in  any  manner  treat  of  the  Jewish 
calendar.  There  cannot  even  be  found  a  fixed  time  whence  the 
commencement  of  the  year  should  be  reckoned,  although  there 
is  this  passage  in  Exodus  (xii.  2):  "  This  month  shall  be  unto 
you  the  chief  of  months :  the  first  shall  it  be  unto  you  of  the 
months  of  the  year."  Doubtless  this  may  be  assumed  to  point 
to  the  month  of  Nissan  (about  April),  as  not  only  the  most 
important  month,  but  also  as  the  beginning  of  the  year. 

In  another  passage  (Exod.  xxiii.  16),  however,  we  find  it 
written:  "And  the  feast  of  ingathering  (Tabernacles),  at  the 
conclusion  of  the  year."  This  would  be  a  palpable  contradic- 
tion to  the  previous  passage,  were  it  not  for  the  fact  that  the 
words  "  Betze' th  Hashana  "  (rendered  as  "  at  the  conclusion  of 
the  year")  in  the  quoted  passage  can  be,  with  perfect  accuracy, 
translated  "  during  the  year."  While  such  a  translation  would 
clear  away  all  doubt  as  to  Nissan  being  the  beginning  of  the 
year,  it  could  under  no  circumstances  be  applied  to  the  Feast 
of  Tabernacles,  which  is  neither  "at  the  conclusion"  of  the 
year  nor  "  during  the  year"  (in  the  sense  "  when  the  year  has 
advanced  "),  if  the  beginning  of  the  year  be  Tishri  (about  Sep- 
tember). Hence  the  passage  should  be  translated :  "  And  the 
feast  of  the  ingathering,  which  had  been  completed  at  the  con- 
clusion of  the  year";  t.e.,  in  the  months  preceding  the  month 
of  Tishri. 

In  the  face  of  these  contradictory  terms,  we  must  revert  to 
historical  facts  which  would  support  one  or  the  other  of  the 
above  assertions,  and  we  find,  that  not  only  the  Egyptian  rulers, 
but  also  the  Jewish  kings  since  the  time  of  Solomon,  counted 
the  beginning  of  the  year  of  their  accession   from  the  month  of 


XX   INTRODUCTION  TO  TRACT  ROSH  HASHANA. 

Nissan,  while  other  Eastern  potentates,  such  as  the  Armenian 
and  Chaldean  kings,  counted  the  commencement  of  their  year 
of  accession  from  Tishri. 

It  is  not  certain  whether  the  Israelites,  after  their  conquest 
of  Canaan,  computed  their  calendar  in  conformity  with  that  of 
the  country  whence  they  came  or  with  that  of  the  country  they 
had  conquered ;  but  it  is  plain  that  in  the  Mishnaic  period,  or 
after  the  erection  of  the  second  Temple,  they  counted  the 
beginning  of  the  year  from  Tishri.  It  may  be,  however,  that 
their  kings,  following  the  example  of  their  predecessors,  com- 
menced counting  the  year  of  their  accession  from  Nissan,  and 
in  all  civil  contracts  and  state  documents,  according  to  the  exist- 
ing custom,  used  dates  to  agree  with  Nissan  as  the  first  month 
of  the  year. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  priestly  tithes,  during  the  days  of 
the  erection  of  the  second  Temple,  were  payable  in  Elul  (about 
August),  which  was  considered  the  expiring  season  of  the  year, 
in  order  to  prevent  the  confusion  which  might  arise  from  mix- 
ing one  year's  tithes  with  those  of  the  other.  The  priestly 
tithing  of  fruits  was,  however,  delayed  until  Shebhat  (about  Feb- 
ruary), the  time  when  the  fruits  had  already  matured  on  the 
trees,  in  order  that  the  various  tithes  should  not  be  confused  and 
to  prevent  the  priests  and  Levites  from  unduly  interfering  with 
the  affairs  of  the  people. 

The  prehistoric  Mishna,  which  always  formed  the  law,  in  con- 
formity with  the  existing  custom,  and  not  vice  versa,^  found 
four  different  New  Year's  days  in  four  different  months,  and, 
with  the  object  in  view  of  making  the  custom  uniform  in  all 
Jewish  communities,  taught  its  adherents  to  observe  four  dis- 
tinct New  Year's  days,  at  the  beginning  of  the  four  respec- 
tive months  in  which  certain  duties  were  accomplished.  Thus 
the  text  of  the  opening  Mishna  of  this  tract,  prior  to  its 
revision  by  Rabbi  Jehudah  Hanassi,  read  as  follows:  "There 
are  four  different  New  Year's  days;  viz.,  the  first  day  of  Nis- 
san, the  first  of  Elul,  the  first  of  Tishri,  and  the  first  of  She- 
bhat." The  different  purposes  for  which  these  days  were  estab- 
lished as  New  Year's  days  were  well  known  at  that  time,  and  it 
was  therefore  deemed  unnecessary  to  specify  them.     At  the  time 

*  Facts  corroborating  this  statement  will  be  found  in  our  periodical  Bakay, 
Vol.  II.,  p.  20  et  seq. 


INTRODUCTION    TO    TRACT    ROSH    HASHANA.      xxi 

of  the  new  edition  of  the  Mishna,  by  Rabbi  Jehudah  Hanassi 
(the  Prince),  when  the  Temple  was  out  of  existence,  and  conse- 
quently tithes  were  no  more  biblically  obliga'tory  (the  authority 
of  the  priests  having  been  abrogated  and  reverted  to  the  house 
of  David,  the  great-grandfather  of  the  editor),  the  latter  refer- 
ring to  the  first  day  of  Nissan  and  the  first  day  of  Elul  as  New 
Year's  days,  added,  by  way  of  commentary,  the  words,  "  for 
kings  and  cattle-tithe." 

He  also  cited  the  opinions  of  R.  Eliezer  and  R.  Simeon,  that 
the  New  Year's  Day  for  cattle-tithe  should  not  be  celebrated 
separately,  but  on  the  general  New  Year's  Day;  viz.,  on  the 
first  day  of  Tishri,  as  under  the  then  existing  circumstances 
there  was  no  necessity  to  guard  against  the  confusion  of  tithes 
accruing  from  one  year  to  the  other.  From  this  it  may  be  con- 
cluded that  R.  Jehudah  Hanassi,  in  citing  the  above  opinions, 
alluded  to  them  as  being  in  conformity  with  his  own  opinion. 
To  that  end  he  also  cites  the  opinions  of  the  schools  of  Shamai 
and  Hillel  respectively. 

From  the  statement  in  the  Mishna  to  the  effect  that  "  there 
are  four  periods  in  each  year  on  which  the  world  is  judged,"  it 
appears  that  in  the  Mishnaic  period  the  New  Year's  day  was 
considered  a  day  of  repentance ;  and  since  the  principal  features 
of  repentance  are  devotion  to  God  and  prayers  for  forgiveness  of 
sin.  Rabbi  states,  in  the  Mishna,  that  devotion  is  the  only  require- 
ment during  the  days  of  penitence,  i.e.,  the  days  between  New 
Year's  Day  and  the  Day  of  Atonement.  The  legend  relating 
that  on  the  New  Year's  day  books  (recording  the  future  of  each 
person)  were  opened  was  yet  unknown  in  Rabbi's  time. 

The  story  told  by  R.  Kruspedai  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan, 
that  "on  New  Year's  Daybooks  are  opened,"  etc.,  is  taken  from 
the  Boraitha  which  teaches:  "  Three  books  are  opened  on  the 
day  of  judgment."  This  Boraitha,  however,  does  not  refer  to 
the  New  Year's  day,  but  to  the  day  of  final  resurrection,  as 
explained  by  Rashi,  and  that  R.  Kruspedai  quotes  his  story  in 
the  name  of  R.  Johanan  proves  nothing;  for  in  many  instances 
where  teachers  were  desirous  of  adding  weight  to  their  opin- 
ions, they  would  quote  some  great  teacher  as  their  authority. 
R.  Johanan  himself  permitted  this  method. 

After  Rabbi  Jehudah  Hanassi  had  completed  the  proper 
Mishnaic  arrangement  regarding  the  number  of  New  Year's  days, 


xxii     INTRODUCTION    TO    TRACT    ROSH    HASHANA. 

making  the  principal  one  "  the  Day  of  Memorial  "  (the  first  of 
Tishri) ;  after  treating  upon  the  laws  governing  the  sounding  of 
the  cornet  in  an  exceedingly  brief  manner — he  dwells  upon  the 
custom  in  vogue  at  the  Temple  of  covering  the  mouth  of  the 
cornet  or  horn  with  gold,  and  declares  the  duty  of  sounding  the 
cornet  properly  discharged  if  a  person  passing  by  the  house  of 
worship  can  hear  it. 

He  arranges  the  prayers  accompanying  this  ceremony  in  a 
few  words,  and  then  dilates  at  great  length  upon  the  Mishnayoth 
treating  of  the  lunar  movements  by  which  alone  the  Jews  were 
guided  in  the  arrangement  of  their  calendar,  upon  the  manner 
of  receiving  the  testimony  of  witnesses,  concerning  the  lunar 
movements,  and  upon  the  phases  of  the  moon  as  used  by  Rabban 
Gamaliel.  He  then  elaborates  upon  the  tradition  handed  down 
to  him  from  his  ancestors  (meaning  thereby  the  undisputably 
cowect  regulations),  and  also  upon  the  statutes  ordained  by  R. 
Johanan  ben  Zakkai,  enacting  that  the  sages  of  each  generation 
are  the  sole  arbiters  of  all  regulations  and  ordinances,  and  may 
themselves  promulgate  decrees  even  though  the  bases  for  such 
be  not  found  in  the  Mosaic  code. 

He  also  confirms  the  right  of  the  chief  Beth  Din  (supreme 
court  of  law),  but  not  of  a  lower  Beth  Din,  of  each  respective 
period,  alone  to  arrange  the  order  of  the  holidays,  on  account  of 
the  already  apparent  discontent  of  the  masses,  who  were  bent 
upon  taking  the  management  of  these  subjects  into  their  own 
hands. 

Thus  he  dilates  upon  this  feature  with  the  minutest  exactness 
and  supports  his  assertions  with  the  decision  of  his  grandfather 
Rabban  Gamaliel,  as  well  as  with  the  decisions  of  Rabbi  Dosa 
ben  Harkhinas  and  Rabbi  Jehoshua,  to  the  effect  that  each 
generation  has  only  to  look  for  guidance  to  the  Beth  Din  exist- 
ing in  its  own  time,  and  that  the  opinion  rendered  by  such  a 
Beth  Din  is  as  binding  and  decisive  as  that  of  Moses,  even 
though  it  appear  to  be  erroneous. 

Such  are  the  contents  of  this  tract,  certainly  most  important 
from  an  historical  and  archaeological  point  of  view.  Proceed, 
then,  and  study! 


SYNOPSIS  OF  SUBJECTS 

OF 

TRACT    ROSH    HASHANA* 


CHAPTER   I. 


MiSHNA  I.  The  first  Mishna  ordains  New  Year's  Days,  viz.:  For  kings, 
for  the  cattle-tithe,  for  ordinary  years,  and  for  the  planting  of  trees.  A  king 
who  ascends  the  throne  on  the  29th  of  Adar  must  be  considered  to  have 
reigned  one  year  as  soon  as  the  first  of  Nissan  comes.  The  Exodus  from 
Egypt  is  reckoned  from  Nissan.  When  Aaron  died  Sihon  was  still  living. 
He  heard  that  Aaron  was  dead  and  that  the  clouds  of  glory  had  departed. 
The  rule  about  Nissan  only  concerned  the  kings  of  Israel ;  but  for  the  kings 
of  other  nations,  they  reckoned  from  Tishri.  Cyrus  was  a  most  upright 
king,  and  the  Hebrews  reckoned  his  years  as  they  did  those  of  the  kings 
of  Israel.  One  is  guilty  of  procrastination.  Charity,  tithes,  the  glean- 
ings of  the  field,  that  which  is  forgotten  to  be  gathered  in  the  field,  the 
produce  of  corners  of  the  field. 

One  is  culpable  if  he  does  not  give  forthwith  that  which  he  has  vowed  for 
charity.  In  the  case  of  charity  it  must  be  given  immediately,  for  the  poor 
are  always  to  be  found.  The  Feast  of  Weeks  falls  on  the  fifth,  sixth,  or 
seventh  of  Sivan. 

How  the  law  against  delay  affects  a  woman.  In  which  month  is  grain  in 
the  early  stage  of  ripening?  Only  in  the  month  of  Nissan.  It  is  also  the 
New  Year  for  leap-year  and  forgiving  the  half-shekels.  Congregational  sac- 
rifices brought  on  the  first  of  Nissan  should  be  purchased  with  the  shekels 
raised  for  the  New  Year.  He  who  lets  a  house  to  another  for  a  year  must 
count  (the  year)  as  twelve  months  from  day  to  day  ;  but  if  the  lessee  says  (I 
rent  this  house)  "  for  this  year,"  even  if  the  transaction  takes  place  on  the 
first  of  Adar,  as  soon  as  the  first  of  Nissan  arrives  the  year  (of  rental)  has 
expired.  The  first  of  Tishri  is  the  New  Year  for  divine  judgment.  At  the 
beginning  of  the  year  it  is  determined  what  shall  be  at  the  end  of  the  year. 
The  Supreme  Court  in  Heaven  does  not  enter  into  judgment  until  the  Beth 


*  See  introduction  to  synopsis  of  Tract  Sabbath,  Vol.  I.,  p.  xxix. 


xxui 


xxiv  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

Din  on  earth  proclaims  the  new  moon.  Israel  enters  for  judgment  first.  If 
a  king  and  a  congregation  have  a  lawsuit,  the  king  enters  first.  From  New 
Year's  Day  until  the  Day  of  Atonement,  slaves  used  not  to  return  to  their 
(own)  homes  ;  neither  did  they  serve  their  masters,  but  they  ate  and  drank 
and  rejoiced,  with  the  crown  of  freedom  on  their  heads.  R.  Eliezer  says, 
that  the  world  was  created  in  Tishri.  R.  Joshua  says,  that  the  world  was 
created  in  Nissan.  Says  R.  Joshua,  God  grants  the  righteous  the  fulfilment 
of  the  years  of  their  life  to  the  very  month  and  day.  Sarah,  Rachel,  and 
Hannah  were  visited  on  New  Year's  Day.  Joseph  was  released  from  prison 
on  New  Year's  Day.  On  New  Year's  Day  the  bondage  of  our  fathers  in 
Egypt  ceased.  The  Jewish  sages  fix  the  time  of  the  flood  according  to  R. 
Eliezer,  and  the  solstices  according  to  R,  Joshua ;  but  the  sages  of  other 
nations  fix  the  time  of  the  flood  also  as  R.  Joshua  does.  Whoso  vows  to 
derive  no  benefit  from  his  neighbor  for  a  year  must  reckon  (for  the  year) 
twelve  months,  from  day  to  day  ;  but  if  he  said  "  for  this  year,"  if  he  made 
the  vow  even  on  the  twenty-ninth  of  Elul,  as  soon  as  the  first  of  Tishri 
comes  that  year  is  complete.  The  New  Year  for  giving  tithes  is  for  a  tree 
from  the  time  the  fruits  form ;  for  grain  and  olives,  when  they  are  one-third 
ripe  ;  and  for  herbs,  when  they  are  gathered.  R.  Aqiba  picked  the  fruit  of 
a  citron-tree  on  the  first  of  Shebhat  and  gave  two  tithes  of  them,       .       1-20 

MiSHNA  II.  At  four  periods  in  each  year  the  world  is  judged.  All  are 
judged  on  New  Year's  Day  and  the  sentence  is  fixed  on  the  Day  of  Atone- 
ment. R.  Nathan  holds  man  is  judged  at  all  times.  God  said :  "  Offer  before 
Me  the  first  sheaf  of  produce  on  Passover,  so  that  the  standing  grain  may  be 
blessed  unto  you.  Recite  before  Me  on  New  Year's  Day  the  Malkhioth, 
that  you  proclaim  Me  King  ;  the  Zikhronoth,  that  your  remembrance  may 
come  before  Me,  for  good,  and  how  (shall  this  be  done)  ?"  By  the  sounding 
of  the  cornet.  Three  circumstances  cause  a  man  to  remember  his  sins. 
Four  things  avert  the  evil  decree  passed  (by  God)  on  man  ;  viz.,  charity, 
prayer,  change  of  name,  and  improvement.  Some  add  to  these  four  a  fifth 
— change  of  location.  Three  books  are  opened  on  New  Year's  Day :  one 
for  the  entirely  wicked,  one  for  the  wholly  good,  and  one  for  the  average 
class  of  people.  The  school  of  Hillel  says :  The  most  compassionate 
inclines  (the  scale  of  justice)  to  the  side  of  mercy.  Who  are  those  who 
inspire  their  fellowmen  with  dread  of  them  ?  A  leader  of  a  community 
who  causes  the  people  to  fear  him  over-much,  without  furthering  thereby  a 
high  purpose.  The  legend  how  R.  Joshua  fell  sick  and  R.  Papa  went  to 
visit  him.  The  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  wrapped  Himself,  as  does  one 
who  recites  the  prayers  for  a  congregation,  and  pointing  out  to  Moses  the 
regular  order  of  prayer,  said  to  him :  "  Whenever  Israel  sins,  let  him  pray  to 
Me  after  this  order,  and  I  shall  pardon  him."  Prayer  is  helpful  for  man 
before  or  after  the  decree  has  been  pronounced.  The  legend  of  a  certain 
family  in  Jerusalem  whose  members  died  at  eighteen  years  of  age.  They 
came  and  informed  R.  Johanan  ben  Zakkai.  The  Creator  sees  all  their 
hearts  (at  a  glance)  and  (at  once)  understands  all  their  works,       .         20-28 

MiSHNA  III.  Messengers  were  sent  out  in  the  following  six  months  :  in 
Nissan,  Abb,  Elul,  Tishri,  Kislev,  and   in  Adar.     The  legend  of  the  king 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  xxv 

(of  Syria  who  had  earlier)  issued  a  decree  forbidding  the  study  of  the  Torah 
among  the  Israelites,  or  to  circumcise  their  sons,  and  compelling  them  to 
desecrate  their  Sabbath.  Judah  b.  Shamua  and  his  friends  cried  aloud  :  "  O 
heavens !  Are  we  not  all  brethren  }  Are  we  not  all  the  children  of  one 
Father  ?  "  etc.  Samuel  said  :  "  I  can  arrange  the  calendar  for  the  whole  cap- 
tivity." Rabha  used  to  fast  two  days  for  the  Day  of  Atonement.  Once  it 
happened  that  he  was  right, 20-34 

MiSHNAS  IV.  to  VII.  For  the  sake  of  (the  new  moon),  of  the  two  months 
Nissan  and  Tishri,  witnesses  may  profane  the  Sabbath.  Formerly  they  pro- 
faned the  Sabbath  for  all  (new  moons),  but  since  the  destruction  of  the 
Temple  they  instituted  that  (witnesses)  might  profane  the  Sabbath  only  on 
account  of  Nissan  and  Tishri.  It  once  happened  that  more  than  forty  pair 
(of  witnesses)  were  on  the  highway  (to  Jerusalem)  on  the  Sabbath.  Shagbar, 
the  superintendent  of  Gader,  detained  them,  and  (when)  R.  Gamaliel  (heard 
of  it,  he)  sent  and  dismissed  him.  It  once  happened,  that  Tobias  the  physi- 
cian, his  son,  and  his  freed  slave  saw  the  new  moon  in  Jerusalem.  The 
explanation  of  the  passage  Exodus  xii.  i,  by  R.  Simeon  and  the  rabbis. 
Who  are  incompetent  witnesses  ?    Gamblers  with  dice,  etc.,  .        .        34-36 

CHAPTER   II. 

MiSHNAS  I.  to  IV.  If  the  Beth  Din  did  not  know  (the  witness),  another 
was  sent  with  him  to  testify  in  his  behalf.  It  once  happened  that  R.  Nehorai 
went  to  Usha  on  the  Sabbath  to  testify  (to  the  character)  of  one  witness. 
The  legend  how  the  Boethusians  appointed  false  witnesses.  Formerly  bon- 
fires were  lighted  (to  announce  the  appearance  of  the  new  moon)  ;  but  when 
the  Cutheans  practised  their  deceit  it  was  ordained  that  messengers  should 
be  sent  out.  There  are  four  kinds  of  cedars.  The  whole  country  looked 
like  a  blazing  fire.  Each  Israelite  took  a  torch  in  his  hand  and  ascended  to 
the  roof  of  his  house.  Great  feasts  were  made  for  (the  witnesses)  in  order 
to  induce  them  to  come  frequently.  How  were  the  witnesses  examined  ? 
The  sun  never  faces  the  concave  of  the  crescent  or  the  concave  of  a  rain- 
bow. (If  the  witnesses  say)  "We  have  seen  the  reflection  (of  the  moon)  in 
the  water,  or  through  a  metal  mirror,  or  in  the  clouds,"  "  their  testimony  is 
not  to  be  accepted."  The  chief  of  the  Beth  Din  says  :  "  It  (the  new  moon) 
is  consecrated,"  and  all  the  people  repeated  after  Him  :  "  It  is  consecrated, 
it  is  consecrated."  Pelimo  teaches  :  "  When  the  new  moon  appeared  at  its 
proper  time,  they  used  not  to  consecrate  it," 37-42 

MiSHNAS  V.  and  VI.  R.  Gamaliel  had  on  a  tablet,  and  on  the  wall  of  his 
upper  room,  illustrations  of  the  various  phases  of  the  moon.  Is  this  per- 
mitted ?  Yea,  he  had  them  made  to  teach  by  means  of  them.  It  happened 
once,  that  two  witnesses  came  and  said  :  "We  saw  the  moon  in  the  east- 
ern part  in  the  morning  and  in  the  western  part  in  the  evening."  R.  Johanan 
b.  Nuri  declared  them  to  be  false  witnesses.  Two  other  witnesses  came  and 
said:  "We  saw  the  moon  on  its  proper  day,  but  could  not  see  it  on  the 
next  evening."  R.Gamaliel  received  them  ;  but  R.  Dosa  b.  Harkhinas  said  : 
"They  are  false  witnesses."     R.Joshua  approved  his  opinion.     Upon  this, 


xxvi  SYNOPSIS    OF   SUBJECTS. 

Gamaliel  ordered  the  former  to  appear  before  him  on  the  Day  of  Atonement, 
according  to  his  computation,  with  his  staff  and  with  money.  What  R. 
Joshua  did,  and  what  R.  Aqiba  and  R.  Dosa  b.  Harkhinas  said  about  it. 
What  R.  Hiyya  said  when  he  saw  the  old  moon  yet  on  the  morning  of  the 
twenty-ninth  day.  Rabbi  said  to  R.  Hiyya  :  "Go  to  Entob  and  consecrate 
the  month,  and  send  back  to  me  as  a  password,  '  David  the  King  of  Israel 
still  lives.'"  The  consecration  of  the  moon  cannot  take  place  at  a  period  less 
than  twenty-nine  and  a  half  days,  two-thirds  and  .0052  (/.<?.,  seventy-three 
Halaqim)  of  an  hour.  Even  if  the  commonest  of  the  common  is  appointed 
leader  by  a  community,  he  must  be  considered  as  the  noblest  of  the  nobility. 
A  judge  is  to  be  held,  "in  his  days,"  equal  in  authority  with  the  greatest  of 
his  antecedents.  Gamaliel  said  to  R.  Joshua :  "  Happy  is  the  generation 
in  which  the  leaders  listen  to  their  followers,  and  through  this  the  followers 
consider  it  so  much  the  more  their  duty  (to  heed  the  teachings  of  the 
leaders)," 42-44 

CHAPTER   HI. 

MiSHNA  I.  If  the  Beth  Din  and  all  Israel  saw  (the  moon  on  the  night 
of  the  thirtieth  day),  but  there  was  no  time  to  proclaim,  "It  is  consecrated," 
before  it  has  become  dark,  the  month  is  intercalary.  When  three  who 
formed  a  Beth  Din  saw  it,  two  should  stand  up  as  witnesses  and  substitute 
two  of  their  learned  friends  with  the  remaining  one  (to  form  a  Beth  Din). 
No  greater  authority  than  Moses,  our  master,  yet  God  said  to  him  that  Aaron 
should  act  with  him.  No  witness  of  a  crime  may  act  as  judge,  but  in  civil 
cases  he  may 45-4^ 

MiSHNAS  II.  to  IV.  Concerning  what  kind  of  cornets  may  be  used  on 
New  Year's  and  Jubilee  days.  Some  words  in  the  Scripture  which  the 
rabbis  could  not  explain,  until  they  heard  the  people  speak  among  them- 
selves. The  cornet  used  on  the  New  Year  was  a  straight  horn  of  a  wild 
goat,  the  mouthpiece  covered  with  gold.  The  Jubilee  and  the  New  Year's 
Day  were  alike  in  respect  to  the  sounding  (of  the  cornet)  and  the  benedic- 
tions, but  R.  Jehudah's  opinion  was  different.  R.  Jehudah  holds  that  on 
New  Year's  Day  the  more  bent  in  spirit  a  man  is,  and  on  the  Day  of  Atone- 
ment the  more  upright  he  is  (in  his  confessions),  the  better;  but  R.  Levi 
holds  the  contrary.  "  On  the  fast  days  two  crooked  ram's-horns  were  used, 
their  mouthpieces  being  covered  with  silver."  According  to  whom  do  we 
nowadays  pray  :  "This  day  celebrates  the  beginning  of  thy  work,  a  memo- 
rial of  the  first  day  "  ?  It  is  unlawful  to  use  a  cornet  that  has  been  split  and 
afterwards  joined  together.  If  one  should  happen  to  pass  by  a  synagogue, 
or  live  close  by  it  and  should  hear  the  cornet,  he  will  have  complied  with 
the  requirements  of  the  law.  If  one  covered  a  cornet  on  the  inside  with 
gold  it  might  not  be  used.  If  one  heard  a  part  of  (the  required  number  of) 
the  sounds  of  the  cornet  in  the  pit,  and  the  rest  at  the  pit's  mouth,  he  has 
done  his  duty.  If  one  blew  the  first  sound  (Teqia),  and  prolonged  the 
second  (Teqia)  as  long  as  two,  it  is  only  reckoned  as  one.  If  one  who 
listened  (to  the  sounds  of  the  cornet)  paid  the  proper  attention,  but  he  that 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  xxvii 

blew  the  cornet  did  not,  or  vice  versa,  they  have  not  done  their  duty  until 
both  blower  and  listener  pay  proper  attention.  If  special  attention  in  fulfil- 
ling a  commandment  or  doing  a  transgression  is  necessary  or  not.  As  long 
as  Israel  looked  to  Heaven  for  aid,  and  directed  their  hearts  devoutly  to 
their  Father  in  Heaven,  they  prevailed  ;  but  when  they  ceased  to  do  so,  they 
failed.  All  are  obliged  to  hear  the  sounding  of  the  cornet,  priests,  Levites, 
and  Israelites,  proselytes,  freed  slaves,  a  monstrosity,  a  hermaphrodite,  and 
one  who  is  half-slave  and  half-free.  One  may  not  say  the  benediction  over 
bread  for  guests  unless  he  eats  with  them,  but  he  may  for  the  members  of 
the  family,  to  initiate  them  into  their  religious  duties,    .        .        .        46-52 


CHAPTER   IV. 

MiSHNAS  I.  to  IV.  Regarding  if  the  New  Year  fall  on  Sabbath.  Where 
the  shofer  (cornet)  should  be  blown  after  the  Temple  was  destroyed.  What 
was  the  difference  between  Jamnia  and  Jerusalem  ?  Once  it  happened  that 
New  Year's  Day  fell  on  the  Sabbath,  and  all  the  cities  gathered  together. 
Said  R.  Johanan  b.  Zakkai  to  the  Benai  Betherah  :  "  Let  us  sound  (the 
cornet)!"  "First,"  said  they,  "let  us  discuss!"  R.  Johanan  b.  Zakkai 
ordained  that  the  palm-branch  should  everywhere  be  taken  seven  days,  in 
commemoration  of  the  Temple.  Since  the  destruction  of  the  Temple,  R. 
Johanan  b.  Zakkai  ordained  that  it  should  be  prohibited  (to  eat  of  the  new 
produce)  the  whole  of  the  day  of  waving  (the  sheaf-offering).  Once  the  wit- 
nesses were  delayed  in  coming,  and  they  disturbed  the  song  of  the  Levites. 
They  then  ordained  that  evidence  should  only  be  received  until  (the  time 
of)  the  afternoon  service.  Concerning  what  songs  the  Levites  had  to  sing 
every  day  from  the  Psalms.  What  did  the  Levites  sing  when  the  additional 
sacrifices  were  being  offered  on  the  Sabbath  1  What  did  they  sing  at  the 
Sabbath  afternoon  service  ?  According  to  tradition,  a  corresponding 
number  of  times  was  the  Sanhedrin  exiled.  The  witnesses  need  only  go  to 
the  meeting  place  (of  the  Beth  Din).  Priests  may  not  ascend  the  platform  in 
sandals,  to  bless  the  people  ;  and  this  is  one  of  the  nine  ordinances  instituted 
by  R.  Johanan  b.  Zakkai,         ........  53-57 

MiSHNA  V.  Regarding  the  order  of  the  benedictions  on  New  Year's 
Day  at  the  morning  prayer,  additional  prayers,  and  at  what  time  the  cornet 
must  be  blown,  etc.  What  passages  from  the  Scriptures  are  selected  for 
additional  prayers  on  New  Year's  Day.  To  what  do  the  ten  scriptural  pas- 
sages used  for  the  Malkhioth  correspond  ?  How  many  passages  must  be 
recited  from  Pentateuch,  Prophets,  and  Hagiographa  ?  We  must  not  men- 
tion the  remembrance  of  the  individual  (in  the  Zikhronoth),  even  if  the 
passage  speaks  of  pleasant  things.  What  are  the  passages  which  must  be 
said  in  the  benediction  of  Malkhioth,  Zikhronoth,  and  the  Shophroth  ?  R. 
Elazar  b.  R.  Jose  says  :  "  The  Vathiqin  used  to  conclude  with  a  passage 
from  the  Pentateuch."  "  Hear,  O  Israel,  the  Lord  our  God  is  our  Lord," 
may  be  used  in  the  Malkhioth.  The  second  of  those  who  act  as  ministers  of 
the  congregation  on  the  Feast  of  New  Year  shall  cause  another  to  sound  the 
cornet  on  days  when  the  Hallel  (Service  of  Praise,  Ps.  cxiii.-cxviii.)  is  read. 


xxviii  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

We  are  permitted  to  occupy  ourselves  with  teaching  (children)  until  they 
learn  (to  sound  the  cornet),  even  on  the  Sabbath.  The  order,  and  how 
many  times  it  must  be  blown  ;  also,  the  different  sounds  and  the  names  of 
them.  How  all  this  is  deduced  from  the  Bible,  and  the  difference  of  opinions 
between  the  sages.  Generally  the  soundings  of  the  cornet  do  not  interfere 
with  each  other,  nor  do  the  benedictions,  but  on  New  Year's  Day  and  the  Day 
of  Atonement  they  do.  R.  Papa  b.  Samuel  rose  to  recite  his  prayers.  Said  he 
to  his  attendant,  "When  I  nod  to  you,  sound  (the  cornet)  for  me."  Rabha 
said  to  him,  that  this  may  only  be  done  in  the  congregation.  A  man  should 
always  first  prepare  himself  for  prayer,  and  then  pray.  R.  Jehudah  prayed 
only  once  in  thirty  days,  .        o        .....         .         57-66 


NEW   YEAR." 


CHAPTER   I. 

THE  ORDINANCES  ABOUT  THE  NEW  YEARS  OF  THE  JEWISH  CALENDAR 
— THE  MESSENGERS  THAT  WERE  SENT  OUT  FROM  JERUSALEM — 
AND  AT  WHICH  PERIOD  OF  THE  YEAR  THE  WORLD  IS  DIVINELY 
JUDGED. 

MISHNA  /.:  There  are  four  New  Year  days,  viz. :  The  first 
of  Nissan  is  New  Year  for  (the  ascension  of)  Kings  and  for  (the 
regular  rotation  of)  festivals;*  the  first  of  Elu)  is  New  Year  for 
the  cattle-tithe,  f  but  according  to  R.  Eliezer  and  R.  Simeon,  it 
is  on  the  first  of  Tishri.  The  first  of  Tishri  is  New  Year's  day, 
for  ordinary  years,  and  for  sabbatic  years:};  and  jubilees;  and 
also  for  the  planting  of  trees  §  and  for  herbs.  ||  On  the  first  day 
of  Shebhat  is  the  New  Year  for  trees, ^  according  to  the  school 
of  Shammai;  but  the  school  of  Hillel  says  it  is  on  the  fifteenth 
of  the  same  month.** 

GEMARA:  "  For  kings.''  Why  is  it  necessary  to  appoint 
such  a  day  ?  (Let  every  king  count  the  day  of  his  ascension  to 
the  throne  as  the  beginning  of  his  year.)  Said  R.  Hisda:  "  On 
account  of  documents."  So  that  in  the  case  of  mortgages,  one 
may  know  which  is  the  first  and  which  is  the  second  by  means  of 

*  This  refers  to  the  law  concerning  vows.  If  one  made  a  vow  it  had  to  be  ful- 
filled before  the  three  festivals  elapsed  in  the  order  of  Passover,  Pentecost,  and  Taber- 
nacles, as  will  be  explained  further  on. 

f  A  date  had  to  be  appointed  in  order  to  keep  the  tithes  of  animals  born  and 
products  of  the  earth,  distinct  from  year  to  year. 

X  Vide  Lev.  xxv.  and  Deut.  xv. 

§  With  regard  to  the  prohibition  of  eating  fruit  of  newly  planted  trees  [Lev.  xix. 

23-25]- 

\  So  as  not  to  mix  the  tithe  of  herbs  from  year  to  year. 
T]  With  regard  to  the  tithe  due  on  fruit  trees. 

**  The  Gemara  fully  discusses  the  reasons  for  these  institutions,  but  we  deem  it 
wise  to  anticipate,  for  the  sake  of  clearness. 


2  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

the  year  of  the  king's  reign  mentioned  in  the  documents.  The 
rabbis  taught:  A  king  who  ascends  the  throne  on  the  29th  of 
Adar  must  be  considered  to  have  reigned  one  year  as  soon  as  the 
first  of  Nissan  comes,  but  if  he  ascends  the  throne  on  the  first 
of  Nissan  he  is  not  considered  to  have  reigned  one  year  until  the 
first  of  Nissan  of  the  following  year.  From  this  we  infer,  that 
only  Nissan  is  the  commencement  of  years  for  kings  (or  the  civil 
New  Year);  that  even  a  fraction  of  a  year  is  considered  a  year; 
and  that  if  a  king  ascends  the  throne  on  the  first  of  Nissan,  he 
is  not  considered  to  have  reigned  one  year  until  the  next  first  of 
Nissan,  although  he  may  have  been  elected  in  Adar.  The  Bo- 
raitha  teaches  this  lest  one  say  that  the  year  should  be  reckoned 
from  the  day  of  election,  and  therefore  the  king  would  begin  his 
second  year  (on  the  first  of  Nissan  following). 

The  rabbis  taught:  If  a  king  die  in  Adar,  and  his  successor 
ascend  the  throne  in  Adar,  (documents  may  be  dated  either)  the 
(last)  year  of  the  (dead)  king  or  the  (first)  year  of  the  new  king. 
If  a  king  die  in  Nissan,  and  his  successor  ascend  the  throne  in 
Nissan,  the  same  is  the  case.  But  if  a  king  die  in  Adar,  and 
his  successor  does  not  ascend  the  throne  until  Nissan,  then  the 
year  ending  with  Adar  should  be  referred  to  as  the  year  of  the 
dead  king,  and  from  Nissan  it  should  be  referred  to  as  that  of 
his  successor.*  Is  this  not  self-evident  ?  The  case  here  men- 
tioned refers  to  an  instance  where  the  new  king  was  a  son  of  the 
deceased,  and,  while  ascending  the  throne  in  Nissan,  had  been 
elected  in  the  month  of  Adar,  and  being  the  king's  son,  it  might 
be  assumed  that  he  was  king  immediately  after  his  election,  and 
thus  the  following  first  of  Nissan  would  inaugurate  the  second 
year  of  his  reign.  He  comes  to  teach  us  that  such  is  not  the 
case. 

R.  Johanan  says :  Whence  do  we  deduce  that  we  reckon  the 
commencement  of  years  (for  the  reign)  of  kings,  only  from  Nis- 
san ?  Because  it  is  written  [I  Kings,  vi.  i]:  "  And  it  came  to 
pass  in  the  four  hundred  and  eightieth  year  after  the  going  forth 
of  the  children  of  Israel  out  of  the  land  of  Egypt,  in  the  fourth 
year  of  the  month  Ziv,  which  is  the  second  month  of  the  reign 
of  Solomon  over  Israel."  Thus  the  Scriptures  establish  an  anal- 
ogy between  "  the  reign  of  Solomon  "  and  "  the  Exodus  from 
Egypt."     As  the  Exodus  from  Egypt  is  reckoned  from  Nissan, 

*  No  reference  should  be  made  after  the  first  of  Nissan  to  the  reign  of  the  king 
just  deceased.  For  instance  :  it  was  not  permitted  to  speak  of  the  year  beginning 
with  Nissan,  as  the  second  year  after  the  death  of  the  king. 


"NEW    YEAR."  3 

so  also  is  the  reign  of  Solomon  reckoned  from  Nissan.  But 
how  do  we  know  that  the  Exodus  even  should  be  reckoned 
from  Nissan  ?  Perhaps  we  should  reckon  it  from  Tishri. 
This  would  be  improper,  for  it  is  written  [Numb,  xxxiii.  38] : 
"  And  Aaron,  the  Priest,  went  up  into  Mount  Hor  at  the 
commandment  of  the  Lord,  and  died  there,  in  the  fortieth 
year  after  the  children  of  Israel  were  come  out  of  the  land 
of  Egypt,  on  the  first  day  of  the  fifth  month."  And  it  is 
written  [Deut.  i.  3]:  "And  it  came  to  pass  in  the  fortieth 
year,  in  the  eleventh  month,  on  the  first  day  of  the  month, 
Moses  spake,"  etc.  Since  he  mentions  the  fifth  month,  which 
is  certainly  Abh,  and  he  speaks  of  (Aaron's  death  as  happening 
in)  the  fortieth  year  (and  not  the  forty-first  year),  it  is  clear  that 
Tishri  is  not  the  beginning  of  years  (for  kings).  This  argument 
would  be  correct  as  far  as  the  former  (Aaron's)  case  is  con- 
cerned, for  the  text  specifically  mentions  (forty  years  after)  the 
Exodus;  but  in  the  latter  (Moses')  case,  how  can  we  tell  that 
(the  fortieth  year)  means  from  the  Exodus  ?  Perhaps  it  means 
(the  fortieth  year)  from  the  raising  of  the  Tabernacle  in  the 
wilderness.  From  the  fact  that  R.  Papa  stated  further  on,  that 
the  twentieth  year  is  mentioned  twice  for  the  sake  of  a  compari- 
son by  analogy,  we  must  assume  that  the  analogy  of  expres- 
sion "  the  fortieth  year"  (mentioned  in  connection  with  both 
Aaron  and  Moses)  signifies  also;*  as  in  the  former  case  it  means 
forty  years  from  the  time  of  the  Exodus,  so  also  in  the  latter 
case.  But  whence  do  we  know  that  the  incident  that  took  place 
in  Abh  (the  death  of  Aaron)  happened  before  (the  speech  of 
Moses)  which  is  related  as  happening  in  Shebhat  ?  Perhaps  the 
Shebhat  incident  happened  first.  It  is  not  reasonable  to  sup- 
pose this,  for  it  is  written  [Deut.  i.  4]:  "After  he  had  slain 
Sihon  the  king  of  the  Amorites,"  and  when  Aaron  died  Sihon 
was  still  living.  Thus  it  is  written  [Numb.  xxi.  i]  :  "  And  the 
Canaanite,  the  king  of  Arad,  heard."  What  did  he  hear  ?  He 
heard  that  Aaron  was  dead,  and  that  the  clouds  of  glory  had 
departed  (and  he  thought  that  a  sign  that  permission  was  given 
from  heaven  to  fight  against  Israel). f  How  can  we  make  any 
such  comparison  ?     In  the  one  place  it  speaks  of  the  Canaanite, 

*  The  statement  of  R.  Papa  is  quoted  here,  because  it  is  a  rule  of  the  Talmud 
that  no  comparisons  by  analogy  may  be  cited  unless  they  emanate  from  a  tradition  or 
teaching  known  to  the  master  making  such  a  comparison,  and  this  rule  applies 
throughout  the  Talmud. 

f  Because  the  life  of  the  righteous  is  a  protection  for  the  whole  people. 


4  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

and  in  the  other  of  Sihon.  We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha  that 
Sihon,  Arad,  and  the  Canaanite  are  identical.  This  opinion  of 
R.  Johanan  is  quite  correct,  for  we  find  that  a  Boraitha  quotes 
all  the  verses  that  he  quotes  here,  and  arrives  at  the  same 
conclusion. 

R.  Hisda  says:  The  rule  of  the  Mishna — that  the  year  of  the 
kings  begins  with  Nissan — refers  to  the  kings  of  Israel  only,  but 
for  the  kings  of  other  nations  it  commences  from  Tishri.  As  it 
is  said  [Neh.  i.  i] :  "  The  words  of  Nehemiah,  the  son  of  Hak- 
haliah.  And  it  came  to  pass  in  the  month  of  Kislev,  in  the 
twentieth  year,"  etc.  And  it  is  written  [ibid.  ii.  i]:  "And  it 
came  to  pass  in  the  month  Nissan,  in  the  twentieth  year  of 
Artaxerxes  the  king,"  etc.  Since  Hanani  stood  before  Nehe- 
miah in  Kislev,  and  the  Bible  speaks  of  it  as  the  twentieth  year, 
and  since  Nehemiah  stood  before  the  king  in  Nissan,  and  the 
Text  calls  it  also  the  twentieth  year,  it  is  clear  that  the  New 
Year  (for  the  non-Jewish  king,  Artaxerxes)  is  not  Nissan  (or  in 
the  latter  case  he  would  have  spoken  of  the  twenty-first  year). 
This  would  be  correct  as  far  as  the  latter  quotation  is  concerned, 
for  ic  specifically  mentions  Artaxerxes,  but  in  the  former  verse 
how  do  we  know  that  it  refers  to  Artaxerxes  ?  Perhaps  it  refers 
to  another  event  altogether.  Says  R.  Papa:  Since  in  the  first 
passage  we  read  "  the  twentieth  year"  and  in  the  second  we 
read  "  the  twentieth  year,"  we  may  deduce  by  analogy  that  as 
in  the  one  case  Artaxerxes  is  meant,  so  is  he  meant  also  in  the 
other.  But  how  do  we  know  that  the  event,  recorded  as  having 
occurred  in  Kislev,  and  not  the  Nissan  incident,  happened  first  ? 
This  we  know  from  a  Boraitha,  where  it  reads:  The  same  words 
which  Hanani  said  to  Nehemiah  in  Kislev,  the  latter  repeated 
to  the  king  in  Nissan,  as  it  is  said  [Neh.  i.  i,  2]:  "  The  words 
of  Nehemiah,  son  of  Hakhaliah.  And  it  came  to  pass  in  the 
month  of  Kislev,  in  the  twentieth  year,  as  I  was  in  Shushan  the 
capital,  that  Hanani,  one  of  my  brethren  came,  and  certain  men 
of  Judah  .  .  .  and  the  gates  thereof  are  burned  with  fire." 
And  it  also  said  [Neh.  ii.  1-6]:  "  And  it  came  to  pass  in  the 
month  of  Nissan,  in  the  twentieth  year  of  Artaxerxes  the  king, 
that  wine  was  before  him  ...  so  it  pleased  the  king  to  send 
me;  and  I  set  him  a  time." 

R.  Joseph  raised  an  objection.  It  is  written  [Haggai,  ii. 
10]:  "  In  the  twenty-fourth  day  of  the  sixth  month,  in  the  sec- 
ond year  of  Darius."  And  it  is  also  written  [ibid.  l]:  "In  the 
second  year,  in  the  seventh  month,  in  the  one-and-twentieth 


*'NEW   YEAR."  5 

day  of  Ihe  month."*  If  the  rule  is  that  Tishri  (the  seventh 
month)  is  the  beginning  of  years  for  non-Jewish  kings,  should 
not  the  Text  read  "  in  the  third  year  of  Darius  "  instead  of  the 
second  year  ?  R.  Abbahu  answered :  Cyrus  was  a  most  upright 
king,  and  the  Hebrews  reckoned  his  years  as  they  did  those  of 
the  kings  of  Israel  (beginning  with  Nissan).  R.  Joseph  opposed 
this.  First:  If  that  were  so,  there  are  texts  that  would  contra- 
dict each  other,  for  it  is  written  [Ezra,  vi.  15] :  "  And  this  house 
was  finished  on  the  third  day  of  the  month  Adar,  which  was  in 
the  sixth  year  of  the  reign  of  Darius  the  King."  And  we  have 
learned  in  a  Boraitha :  At  the  same  time  in  the  following  year 
Ezra  and  the  children  of  the  captivity  went  up  from  Babylon, 
and  the  Bible  says  about  this  [Ezra,  vii.  8]  :  "  And  he  came  to 
Jerusalem  in  the  fifth  month  in  the  seventh  year  of  the  king." 
But  if  the  rule  is  (that  for  Cyrus  the  year  began  with  Nissan  and 
not  Tishri)  should  not  the  Text  say  "  the  eighth  year"  (since 
the  first  day  of  Nissan,  the  beginning  of  another  year,  inter- 
venes between  the  third  of  Adar  and  the  month  of  Abh)  ?  Sec- 
ondly: How  can  these  texts  be  compared  ?  In  the  one  place  it 
speaks  of  Cyrus,  and  in  the  other  of  Darius.  We  have  learned 
in  a  Boraitha  that  Darius,  Cyrus,  and  Artaxerxes  are  all  one 
and  the  same  person. 

"  Atid  for  festivals.''  Do  then  the  festivals  commence  on 
the  first  of  Nissan  ?  Do  they  not  begin  on  the  fifteenth  of  that 
month?  R.  Hisda  answered:  (The  Mishna  means  that  Nissan 
is)  the  month  that  contains  that  festival  which  is  called  the  New 
Year  for  festivals  (viz.,  Passover). 

What  difference  does  it  make  (in  practice)  ?  It  makes  a  dif- 
ference to  one  who  has  made  a  vow,  because  through  this  festi- 
val he  becomes  culpable  of  breaking  the  law,  "  Thou  shalt  not 
slack  to  pay."t  And  this  is  according  to  the  opinion  of  R. 
Simeon,  who  says:  That  (before  one  is  guilty  of  delay)  the  three 
festivals  must  have  passed  by  in  their  regular  order,  with  Pass- 
over as  the  first  (of  the  three).  Thus  was  also  the  dictum  of  R, 
Simeon  ben  Jochai,  who  stated  that  the  law  against  procrastina- 


*  The  Rabbis  of  the  Talmud  must  have  had  a  different  version  of  the  book  of 
Haggai  from  that  existing  at  present.  In  the  second  passage  quoted,  namely  Hag- 
gai  ii.  I,  the  words  "in  the  second  year"  cannot  be  found.  There  is,  therefore,  a 
great  difficulty  in  understanding  the  discussion.  Even  Rashi  is  unable  to  enlighten 
us  on  this  point. 

\  This  law  of  "  Thou  shalt  not  slack  to  pay,"  is  known  as  "  Bal  Te'aher"  ; 
i.e.,  the  law  against  procrastination  or  delay. 


6  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

tion  may  be  violated  at  times  only  when  five  festivals  had  passed 
by  in  their  regular  order;  at  other  times  when  four,  and  again 
when  three  festivals  had  passed;  i.e.,  if  the  vow  was  made 
before  the  feast  of  Pentecost  he  becomes  guilty  of  procrastina- 
tion only  when  Pentecost,  Tabernacles,  Passover,  and  again 
Pentecost  and  Tabernacles  had  passed  by;  if  the  vow  was  made 
before  Tabernacles  then  he  becomes  guilty. 

The  rabbis  taught:  As  soon  as  three  festivals  have  passed 
by  and  the  following  duties  (or  vows)  have  not  been  fulfilled 
one  is  guilty  of  procrastination ;  and  these  are :  The  vow  of  one 
who  says,  "  I  will  give  the  worth  of  myself  (to  the  sanctuary);" 
or,  "  I  will  give  what  I  am  estimated  to  be  worth  (in  accordance 
with  Lev.  xxvii.);"  or  the  vow  concerning  objects,  the  use  of 
which  one  has  forsworn,  or  which  one  has  consecrated  (to 
the  sanctuary),  or  sin-ofTerings,  guilt-offerings,  burnt-offerings, 
peace-offerings,  charity,  tithes,  the  firstlings,  the  paschal  offer- 
ings, the  gleanings  of  the  field,  that  which  is  forgotten  to  be 
gathered  in  the  field,  the  produce  of  the  corner  of  the  field.* 
R.  Simeon  says:  The  festivals  must  pass  by  in  their  regular 
order,  with  Passover  as  the  first.  And  R.  Meir  says :  As  soon 
as  even  one  festival  has  elapsed  and  the  vow  has  not  been  kept 
the  law  is  infringed.  R.  Eliezer  ben  Jacob  says:  As  soon  as 
two  festivals  have  elapsed  the  law  is  infringed,  but  R.  Elazar 
ben  Simeon  says :  Only  the  passing  of  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles 
causes  the  infringement  of  the  law  (whether  or  not  any  other 
festivals  have  passed  by  between  the  making  and  the  fulfilling 
of  the  vow).  What  is  the  reason  of  the  first  Tana  ?  Since  in 
[Deut.  xvi.]  the  Text  has  been  speaking  of  the  three  festivals, 
why  does  it  repeat,  "  On  the  Feast  of  Unleavened  Bread,  on  the 
Feast  of  Weeks,  and  on  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles  ?  "  This  signi- 
fies that  when  Tabernacles,  Passover,  Pentecost,  and  again  Tab- 
ernacles had  passed,  but  if  the  vow  was  made  before  Passover, 
then  the  man  becomes  guilty  if  he  allows  the  three  festivals  to 
pass  by  in  their  regular  order.  Infer  from  this  that  the  festivals 
must  pass  in  the  order  just  mentioned  before  one  is  guilty  of 
procrastination.  R.  Simeon  says:  It  was  not  necessary  to  re- 
peat "  on  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles,"  because  the  Text  was 
speaking  of  that  festival  (when  it  mentioned  the  names  of  the 
three  festivals).  Why,  then,  does  it  repeat  it  ?  To  teach  us  that 
Tabernacles  shall  be  the  last  of  the  three  festivals.     R.   Meir 

*  Lev.  xxiii.  22. 


"NEW   YEAR."  7 

arrives  at  his  opinion  because  it  is  mentioned  of  each  festival 
"  Thou  shalt  come  there  (to  Jerusalem),  and  ye  shall  bring 
there"  (your  vows;  and  this  being  said  of  each  festival,  if  one 
elapses  and  the  vow  is  not  brought,  then  the  law  against  delay 
is  infringed.  The  reason  of  R.  Eliezer  ben  Jacob  is,  that  the 
passage  [Numl^.  xxix.  39]  runs:  "  These  shall  ye  offer  to  the 
Lord  on  your  appointed  feasts,"  and  the  minimum  of  the  plural 
word  "  feasts  "  is  fwo.  On  what  does  R.  Elazar  b.  Simeon  base 
his  opinion  ?  We  have  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha: 
"  The  Feast  of  Tabernacles"  should  not  have  been  mentioned 
in  [Deut.  xvi.  16],  since  the  preceding  passages  (of  that  chap- 
ter) were  treating  of  that  feast.  Why,  then,  was  it  mentioned  ? 
To  indicate  that  that  particular  feast  (Tabernacles)  is  the  one 
that  causes  the  infringement  of  the  law. 

What  do  R.  Meir  and  R.  Eliezer  ben  Jacob  deduce  from  the 
superfluous  passage  "  on  the  Feast  of  Unleavened  Bread,  on  the 
Feast  of  Weeks,  and  on  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles  "  ?  They  use 
this  verse,  according  to  R.  Elazar,  who  says  in  the  name  of  R. 
Oshiya,  who  said :  Whence  do  we  know  that  the  law  of  com- 
pensation *  applies  to  the  Feast  of  Weeks  (although  the  feast  is 
only  one  day)  ?  For  this  very  reason  the  Bible  repeats  the  three 
festivals,  and  he  institutes  a  comparison  between  Pentecost  and 
Passover;  and  as  the  law  of  compensation  applies  to  Passover  for 
seven  days,  so  also  does  it  apply  to  Pentecost  for  seven  days. 
Why,  then,  do  the  Scriptures  find  it  necessary  to  repeat  the 
words,  "  In  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles"  ?  To  compare  it  with 
the  Feast  of  Passover,  as  during  Passover  it  was  obligatory  to 
stay  over  night  (in  Jerusalem),  so  was  it  also  necessary  during 
the  Feast  of  Tabernacles.  But  how  do  we  know  that  it  was 
obligatory  during  the  Feast  of  Unleavened  Bread  ?  It  is  writ- 
ten [Deut.  xvi.  7]:  "Thou  shalt  turn  in  the  morning  (after 
staying  over  night),  and  go  unto  thy  tents."  Whence  do  we 
deduce  this  ?  The  rabbis  taught :  It  is  written  [Deut.  xxiii. 
22]:  "When  thou  shalt  vow  a  vow  unto  the  Lord  thy  God, 
thou  shalt  not  delay  to  pay  it."  Perhaps  these  words  only 
apply  to  a  vow.  How  do  we  know  that  they  may  also  be  ap- 
plied to  a  voluntary  offering  ?  In  the  passage  just  quoted  we 
read  "  vow,"  and  in  another  place  [Lev.  vii.  16]  we  find  "  but 
if  the  sacrifice  of  his  offering  be  a  vow  or  a  voluntary  offering  "  ; 


*  The  privilege  of  bringing  on  one  of  the  later  days  of  a  festival  a  sacrifice  that 
should  have  been  offered  on  the  first  day. 


8  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

as  in  the  latter  instance  the  "  voluntary  offering"  is  included, 
so  is  also  the  former;  "  unto  the  Lord  thy  God,"  i.e.,  offer- 
ings expressed  by  "  I  will  give  the  value  of  myself,"  etc.,  and 
other  objects  mentioned  above;  "  thou  shalt  not  slack  to  pay 
it  "  ;  i.e.,  the  object  promised  must  be  given  and  not  anything  in 
exchange  for  it;*  "  for  he  will  surely  require  it,"  i.e.,  the  sin, 
guilt,  burnt,  and  peace-offerings;  "the  Lord  thy  God,"  these 
words  refer  to  offerings  of  charity,  tithes,  and  firstlings;  "of 
thee,"  this  refers  to  the  gleanings,  that  which  is  forgotten  in 
the  field  and  the  produce  of  the  corner  of  the  field;  "  and  it 
would  be  sin  in  thee,"  i.e.,  in  thee  and  not  in  thy  sacrifice 
(which  is  not  thereby  invalidated). 

The  rabbis  taught:  It  is  written  [Deut.  xxiii.  24]:  "What 
is  gone  out  of  thy  lips,"  this  refers  to  the  positive  command- 
ments (of  the  Law);  "  thou  shalt  keep,"  refers  to  the  negative 
commandments;  "  and  perform,"  is  a  warning  to  the  Beth  Din 
(that  they  should  enforce  the  laws);  "  according  as  thou  hast 
vowed,"  refers  to  vows;  "  to  the  Lord  thy  God,"  refers  to  sin, 
guilt,  burnt,  and  peace-offerings;  "voluntarily,"  means  just 
what  it  is;  "  which  thou  hast  spoken,"  refers  to  the  sanctified 
objects  devoted  to  the  Temple  for  repairs,  etc.;  "with  thy 
mouth,"  refers  to  charity.  Says  Rabha:  One  is  culpable  if  he 
does  not  give  forthwith  that  which  he  has  vowed  for  charity. 
Why  so  ?  Because  there  are  always  poor  people  (needing  im- 
mediate help).  Is  this  not  self-evident  ?  One  might  suppose 
that,  since  the  law  prohibiting  delay  is  found  in  connection  with 
the  duty  of  giving  charity  and  also  of  bringing  the  various  volun- 
tary offerings,  it  would  apply  to  both,  and  it  would  not  be  in- 
fringed until  the  three  festivals  had  elapsed,  he  comes  to  teach  us 
(that  charity  and  sacrifices  are  different) ;  in  the  latter  case  the  in- 
fringement of  the  law  depends  on  the  festivals,  but  in  the  case 
of  charity  it  must  be  given  immediately,  for  the  poor  are  always 
to  be  found.  And  Rabha  said  again :  As  soon  as  three  festivals 
have  passed  (and  one  has  not  brought  his  offering),  he  daily 
transgresses  the  law  against  delay.  An  objection  was  raised. 
As  soon  as  a  year,  containing  three  festivals  or  not,  has  passed 
(he  that  does  not  bring  his  offering),  be  it  a  firstling  or  any  of 
the  holy  offerings,  transgresses  daily  the  law  against  delay.  It 
is  quite  possible  that  the  three  festivals  may  elapse  and  yet  a 
year  may  not  go  by  {i.e.,  from  Passover  till  Tabernacles  is  only 

*  Lev.  xxvii.  32. 


"NEW  YEAR."  9 

seven  months),  but  how  can  it  happen  that  a  year  may  pass  and 
the  three  festivals  should  not  occur  (in  that  time)  ?  It  may 
happen  according  to  those  who  say  (that  the  three  festivals 
must  elapse)  in  their  regular  order,  but  according  to  those  who 
do  not  say  (that  the  three  festivals  must  go  by)  in  their  regular 
order,  how  can  such  a  case  occur  ?  This  would  be  correct 
according  to  Rabbi  (who  holds  that  the  intercalary  month  *  is 
not  a  part  of  the  year),  and  it  occurs  in  a  leap  year,  when  one 
consecrates  anything  (to  the  Temple)  after  the  Feast  of  Pass- 
over; for  when  the  end  of  the  second  Adar  has  arrived,  a  year 
(of  twelve  months)  has  elapsed,  yet  the  three  festivals  have  not 
passed  by  in  their  regular  order.  But  how  can  such  a  case 
occur  according  to  the  rabbis  ?  It  can  happen  as  R.  Shemaiah 
teaches:  Pentecost  falls  on  the  fifth,  sixth,  or  seventh  of  Sivan. 
How  is  this  possible  ?  In  a  year  when  the  months  of  Nissan 
and  lyar  have  thirty  days  each,  Pentecost  falls  on  the  fifth  of 
Sivan  ;  when  they  each  have  twenty-nine  days,  Pentecost  falls  on 
the  seventh  of  Sivan  ;  but  when  the  one  has  twenty-nine  days  and 
the  other  has  thirty  days,  Pentecost  falls  on  the  sixth  of  Sivan. 

R.  Zera  asked:  How  does  the  law  against  delay  affect  an 
heir  ?  Shall  we  argue  that  the  Law  says  [Deut.  xxiii.  22] : 
"When  thoii  shalt  vow"  {i.e.,  the  testator  has  vowed),  but  the 
heir  has  not  vowed  (consequently  the  law  does  not  apply  to 
him),  or  shall  we  infer  from  the  passage  [Deut.  xii.  5,6]:  "  And 
thither  shalt  thou  come  .  .  .  and  ye  shall  bring,"  that  the  heir 
(who  is  obliged  to  come)  is  also  in  duty  bound  to  bring  with 
him  (the  objects  vowed  by  the  testator)  ?  Come  and  hear.  R. 
Hyya  taught :  It  is  written  in  this  connection  [Deut.  xxiii.  22] : 
"  Of  thee"  {i.e.,  from  the  one  who  vowed)  and  this  excludes 
the  heir.  But  did  we  not  say  above  that  these  words  refer  to 
the  gleanings,  etc.  ?  The  Text  uses  the  word  Me'immokh 
("  of  thee  "),  which  we  can  explain  to  mean  both  the  successor 
and  the  gleanings,  etc.  {i.e.,  all  that  comes  "  of  thee  "). 

R.  Zera  also  asked :  How  does  the  law  against  delay  affect 
a  woman  ?  Shall  I  say  that  since  she  is  not  obligated  to  appear 
(in  Jerusalem)  the  law  does  not  apply  to  her  ?  or  perhaps  it  is 
her  duty  to  go  there  because  she  is  included  in  the  law  "  to 
rejoice"?  "Certainly,"  answered  Abayi,  "she  is  bound  by 
this  law  because  it  is  her  duty  to  rejoice." 


*  Leap  year  occurs  seven  times  in  a  cycle  of  nineteen  years.     On  such  occasions 
one  month,  the  second  Adar,  is  added  to  the  twelve  lunar  months. 


lo  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

The  schoolmen  asked:  From  when  do  we  count  the  begin- 
ning of  the  year  for  a  firstling  ?  Answered  Abayi :  From  the 
moment  it  is  born ;  but  R.  Aha  b.  Jacob  said  :  From  the  moment 
it  is  acceptable  as  an  offering  {i.e.,  when  it  is  eight  days  old, 
Lev.  xxii.  27).  They  do  not  differ,  for  the  former  Rabbi  refers 
to  an  unblemished  animal  and  the  latter  to  one  with  a  blemish. 
May,  then,  a  blemished  animal  be  eaten  (on  the  day  of  its 
birth)  ?  Yes,  if  we  are  sure  it  was  born  after  the  full  period  of 
gestation. 

The  rabbis  taught :  The  first  of  Nissan  is  the  new  year  for 
(arranging  the)  months,  for  (appointing)  leap  years,  for  giving 
the  half  shekels,  and,  some  say,  also  for  the  rental  of  houses. 
Whence  do  we  know  (that  it  is  the  new  year)  for  months  ? 
From  the  passage  [Ex.  xii.  2]  where  it  is  written:  "  This  month 
shall  be  unto  you  the  beginning  of  months;  it  shall  be  the  first 
month  of  the  year  to  you."  It  is  also  written  [Deut.  xvi.  i]  : 
"  Observe  the  month  of  Abib  "  (early  stage  of  ripening).  In 
which  month  is  grain  in  the  early  stage  of  ripening  ?  I  can  say 
only  Nissan,  and  the  Law  calls  it  the  first.  Could  I  not  say 
Adar  (when  the  grain  begins  to  shoot  up)  ?  Nay,  for  the  grain 
must  be  ripening  during  the  major  portion  of  the  month  (and  in 
Adar  it  is  not).  Is  it  then  written  that  the  grain  must  be  ripen- 
ing the  major  portion  of  the  month  ?  Therefore,  says  Rabhina, 
the  sages  do  not  find  (the  rule  of  calling  Nissan  the  first  month) 
in  the  Pentateuch,  but  in  the  Book  of  Esther,  where  it  is  clearly 
stated  [Esther,  iii.  7],  "  In  the  first  month,  that  is,  the  month 
Nissan." 

"  For  leap  years.''  Do  we,  then,  count  leap  years  from  Nis- 
san ?  Does  not  a  Boraitha  teach  us  that  Adar  only  is  the  inter- 
calary month  ?  Answered  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak:  The  words 
"  FOR  LEAP  YEARS  "  mean  here  the  termination  of  leap  years,* 
and  our  Tana  speaks  of  the  beginning  of  the  leap  year  and  not 
the  end. 

"  For  giving  the  half  shekels."  Whence  do  we  deduce  this  ? 
Said  R.  Yoshiah:  In  Numb,  xxviii.  14:  "This  is  the  burnt- 
offering  of  the  new  moon  throughout  the  months  of  the  year." 
The  Scriptures  say  "proclaim  it  a  new  month,''  and  also  bring  a 
sacrifice  from  the  new  products.  We  make  a  comparison  be- 
tween the  words  "year"  used  in  this  passage  and  in  Ex.  xii.  2, 

*  As  soon  as  Nissan  had  been  consecrated,  there  could  be  no  further  debate  about 
making  the  past  year  intercalary,  for  once  the  new  month  had  been  called  Nissan,  it 
was  forbidden  to  call  it  by  any  other  name. 


''NEW   YEAR."  II 

*  it  shall  be  the  first  month  of  the  year  to  you,"  and  deduce 
that  they  both  refer  to  Nissan. 

R,  Jehudah  says  in  the  name  of  Samuel :  It  is  required  that 
the  congregational  sacrifices*  brought  on  the  first  of  Nissan 
should  be  purchased  with  the  shekels  collected  for  the  new  year; 
but  if  the  sacrifice  was  bought  with  the  funds  obtained  from  the 
former  year's  funds,  it  is  acceptable,  yet  the  law  was  but  im- 
perfectly complied  with.  We  have  also  learned  the  same  in  a 
Boraitha  with  the  addition  that,  if  an  individual  offers  from  his 
own  property  (proper  objects  for  the  congregational  sacrifices), 
they  are  acceptable,  but  he  must  first  present  them  to  the  con- 
gregation. Is  this  not  self-evident  ?  Nay,  it  may  be  feared 
that  one  will  not  give  them  to  the  congregation  with  a  free  will, 
and  this,  he  teaches  us,  is  not  worthy  of  consideration.  And 
the  reason  that  our  Tana  does  not  mention  that  Nissan  is  a  new 
year  for  the  giving  of  shekels  also,  is  because  it  is  said  above 
that  if  one  has  brought  an  offering  (from  the  old  funds)  he  has 
done  his  duty,  therefore  he  could  not  make  Nissan  absolutely 
binding  as  a  new  year  for  the  sacrifices. 

It  is  said  above:  "And  some  say  also  for  the  rental  of 
houses."  The  rabbis  taught:  He  who  lets  a  house  to  another 
for  a  year,  should  count  (the  year)  as  twelve  months  from  day  to 
day;  but  if  the  lessee  says  (I  rent  this  house)  "  for  this  year," 
even  if  the  transaction  takes  place  on  the  first  of  Adar,  as  soon 
as  the  first  of  Nissan  arrives,  the  year  (of  rental)  has  expired. 
Can  you  not  say  Tishri  (is  the  beginning  of  the  year  for  such 
transactions)  ?  Nay,  it  is  generally  understood  that  if  a  man 
rents  a  house  in  the  autumn  he  rents  it  for  the  whole  of  the 
rainy  season  (winter).  And  the  Taria  of  the  first  part  of  the 
above  Boraitha  (who  does  not  fix  Nissan  as  the  month  for  ren- 
tals), and  also  our  Tana  both  are  of  the  opinion  that  in  Nissan, 
too,  bad  weather  sometimes  prevails  (and  therefore  Nissan  and 
Tishri  are  alike  in  this  respect). 

' '  On  the  first  of  Elul  is  the  new  year  for  the  cattle-tithes. ' '  Ac- 
cording to  whose  opinion  is  this  ?  Says  R.  Joseph:  It  is  accord- 
ing to  Rabbi's  own  opinion  which  he  formed  in  accordance  with 
the  opinions  of  different  Tanaim.  With  regard  to  the  festivals 
he  holds  with  R.  Simeon  and  with  regard  to  the  cattle-tithe  he 
holds  to  the  opinion  of  R.  Meir.     If  that  is  so,  are  there  not 


*  The  Tamid  or  daily  offering  could  not  be  presented  to  the  Temple  by  an 
individual. 


12  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

five  beginnings  of  years  instead  of  four  ?  Rabha  answered  that 
the  Mishna  mentioned  only  the  four,  which  are  not  disputed  by 
any  one.  According  to  R.  Meir  there  are  four,  if  that  "  for  the 
festivals"  be  excluded,  and  according  to  R.  Simeon  there  are 
four,  if  that  "  for  the  cattle-tithes  "  be  excluded.  R.  Na'hman 
bar  Itz'hak,  however,  says:  (No  such  explanation  is  needed) ;  the 
Mishna  means  that  there  are  four  (months)  in  which  there  are  (or 
may  be)  many  beginnings  of  years. 

"  According  to  R.  Eliezer  aiid  R.  Simeon  it  is  on  t lie  first  of 
Tishri."  R.  Johanan  says:  Both  of  them  deduce  their  opinion 
by  (various  interpretations  of)  the  same  scriptural  passage.  It 
is  written  [Psalms,  Ixv.  14]:  "The  meadows  are  clothed  with 
flocks;  the  valleys  also  are  covered  with  corn;  men  shout  for 
joy,  they  also  sing."  R.  Meir  thinks  (this  is  the  interpretation) 
of  these  words:  When  are  the  meadows  clothed  with  flocks? 
At  the  season  when  the  valleys  are  covered  with  corn.  And 
when  are  the  valleys  covered  with  corn  ?  About  (the  time  of) 
Adar.  The  flocks  conceive  in  Adar  and  produce  their  young  in 
Abh;  consequently  the  beginning  of  the  year  (for  the  cattle- 
tithe)  is  Elul.  R.  Eliezer  and  R.  Simeon,  however,  say:  When 
are  the  meadows  clothed  with  flocks  ?  At  the  season  when  they 
shout  and  sing.  When  do  the  ears  of  corn  (seem  to)  send  up 
a  hymn  of  praise  ?  In  Nissan.  Now,  the  sheep  conceive  in 
Nissan  and  produce  in  Elul,  consequently  the  beginning  of  the 
year  (for  their  tithe)  is  Tishri.  But  Rabha  says :  All  agree  that 
only  Adar  is  the  time  when  the  meadows  are  clothed  with  flocks, 
and  the  valleys  are  covered  with  corn.  But  they  difl'er  about 
this  passage  [Deut.  xiv.  22]:  "Thou  shalt  truly  tithe"  {liter- 
ally, "  Thou  shalt  tithe  in  tithing"),  and  we  see  that  the  text 
here  speaks  of  two  tithes — viz.,  of  cattle  and  of  grain.  R.  Meir 
thinks  that  the  following  comparison  may  be  instituted  between 
the  two :  just  as  the  tithe  of  grain  must  be  given  in  the  month 
nearest  to  the  time  it  is  reaped,  so  that  of  cattle  must  be  given 
in  the  month  nearest  to  the  one  in  which  they  are  born  (Elul). 
R.  Eliezer  and  R.  Simeon,  however,  are  of  the  opinion  that 
another  comparison  may  be  instituted  between  these  tithes — 
viz.,  just  as  the  beginning  of  the  year  for  giving  the  tithe  of 
grain  is  Tishri,  so  also  is  Tishri  for  that  of  cattle. 

"  The  first  of  Tishri  is  the  New  Years  Day  for  ordinary 
years,**  For  what  purpose  is  this  rule  ?  Answers  R.  Zera,  to 
determine  the  equinoxes  (and  solstices);  and  this  agrees  with 
the  opinion  of  R.  Eliezer,  who  says  that  the  world  was  created 


"NEW   YEAR."  13 

in  Tishri ;  but  R.  Na'hman  says  (it  is  the  new  year)  for  divine 
judgment,  as  it  is  written  [Deut.  xi.  12]:  "  From  the  beginning 
of  the  year  till  the  end  of  the  year,"  i.e.,  at  the  beginning  of 
the  year  it  is  determined  what  shall  be  at  the  end  of  the  year. 
But  whence  do  we  know  that  this  means  Tishri  ?  It  is  written 
[Psalms,  Ixxxi.  3]:  "Blow  on  the  new  moon  the  cornet  at 
the  time  when  it  (the  new  moon)  is  hidden  *  on  our  solemn 
feast  day."  What  feast  is  it  on  which  the  moon  is  hidden  ? 
We  can  only  say  Rosh  Hashana  (New  Year's  Day),  and  of  this 
day  it  is  written  [ibid.  v.  4] :  "  For  it  is  a  statute  unto  Israel, 
a  judgment  (day)  for  the  God  of  Jacob." 

The  rabbis  taught:  "  It  is  a  statute  unto  Israel,"  whence  we 
infer  that  the  Heavenly  Court  of  Judgment  does  not  enter  into 
judgment  until  the  Beth  Din  on  earth  proclaims  the  new  moon. 
Another  Boraitha  states:  It  is  written:  "It  is  a  statute  unto 
Israel."  From  this  it  appears  that  (New  Year's  Day  is  a  day 
of  judgment)  only  for  Israel.  Whence  do  we  know  it  is  so  also 
for  other  nations  ?  Therefore  it  is  written:  "  It  is  the  day  of 
judgment  of  the  God  of  Jacob"  (the  Universal  God).  Why, 
then,  is  "  Israel  "  mentioned  ?  To  inform  us  that  Israel  comes 
in  for  judgment  first.  This  is  in  accordance  with  the  saying  of 
R.  Hisda:  If  a  king  and  a  congregation  have  a  law  suit,  the 
king  enters  first,  as  it  is  said  [I  Kings,  viii.  59]  :  "  The  cause  of 
his  servant  (King  Solomon)  and  the  cause  of  his  people."  Why 
so  ?     Because  it  is  not  customary  to  let  a  king  wait  outside. 

"  For  the  computation  of  sabbatic  years.''  On  what  scriptural 
passage  is  this  based  ?  On  Lev.  xxv.  4,  which  reads:  "  But  in 
the  seventh  year  there  shall  be  a  sabbath  of  rest  unto  the  land," 
and  he  deduces  (that  it  means  Tishri)  by  analogy  from  the  word 
"  year  "  in  this  passage  and  in  the  following:  "  From  the  begin- 
ning of  the  year  "  [Deut.  xi.  12],  which  surely  refers  to  Tishri. 

"  Ayid  jubilees.''  Do,  then,  jubilees  begin  on  the  first  of 
Tishri  ?  Do  they  not  begin  on  the  tenth,  as  it  is  written  [Lev. 
xxv.  9] :  "  On  the  Day  of  Atonement  shall  ye  make  the  cornet 
sound  throughout  all  your  land"  ?  Our  Mishna  is  in  accord- 
ance with  R.  Ishmael  the  son  of  R.  Johanan  ben  Berokah  of 
the  following  Boraitha:  It  is  written  [Lev.  xxv.  10]:  "  Ye  shall 
sanctify  the  year,  the  fiftieth  j;/^^r."  Why  was  it  necessary  to 
repeat  the  word  "  year"  ?     Because  in  the  same  connection  it 


*  This  is  the  literal  translation  of  the  verse  in  Psalms  ;  the  free  translation  is  "at 
th«  appointed  time,"  according  to  Isaac  Leeser. 


14  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

is  said  [ibid.  9]:  "  On  the  Day  of  Atonement  shall  ye  make  the 
cornet  sound,"  and  one  might  suppose  that  the  jubilee  is  sanc- 
tified only  from  the  Day  of  Atonement  (and  not  before).  There- 
fore the  word  "  year  "  is  repeated  to  teach  us  that  by  the  words 
"ye  shall  sanctify  the  fiftieth  year"  is  meant,  that  from  the 
.very  beginning  of  the  year  the  jubilee  commences  to  be  conse- 
crated. From  this  R.  Ishmael  the  son  of  R.  Johanan  b.  Bero- 
kah  says :  From  New  Year's  Day  until  the  Day  of  Atonement 
slaves  were  not  wont  to  return  to  their  (own)  homes,  neither 
did  they  serve  their  masters,  but  they  ate  and  drank  and  re- 
joiced with  the  crown  of  freedom  on  their  heads.  As  soon  as 
the  Day  of  Atonement  arrived  the  Beth  Din  ordered  the  cornet 
to  be  blown  and  the  slaves  returned  to  their  own  homes,  and 
estates  reverted  to  their  (original)  owners. 

We  have  learned  in  another  Boraitha:  "It  is  a  jubilee" 
(Jobhel  hi).  What  is  meant  by  (these  superfluous  words)? 
Since  it  is  said  [Lev.  xxv.  10]:  "And  ye  shall  sanctify  the 
fiftieth  year,"  one  might  think  that,  as  at  the  beginning  of  the 
year  the  jubilee  commences  to  be  sanctified,  the  sanctification 
should  be  extended  to  the  (Day  of  Atonement)  after  the  end  of 
the  year;  and  be  not  surprised  at  such  a  teaching,  since  it  is  cus- 
tomary to  add  from  the  non-sanctified  to  the  sanctified.  Hence 
the  necessity  of  the  words  in  the  passage  (next  to  that  quoted 
above)  [Lev.  xxv.  11]:  "A  jubilee  shall  that  fiftieth  year  be 
unto  you  "  ;  i.e.,  the  fiftieth  year  shall  be  hallowed,  and  not  the 
fifty-first.  But  the  rabbis,  whence  do  they  derive  the  regulation 
that  the  fifty-first  year  is  not  sanctified  ?  Because  it  is  plainly 
written  the  fiftieth  year  and  not  the  fifty-first.  This  excludes 
the  opinion  of  R.  Jehudah  who  holds  that  the  jubilee  year  is 
added  at  the  beginning  and  end.*  The  rabbis  taught  "  Jobhel 
hi  (it  is  a  jubilee),"  even  if  the  people  have  not  relinquished 
(their  debts),  even  if  the  cornet  is  not  sounded ;  shall  we  also 
say  even  if  slaves  are  not  released  ?  Hence  the  word  "  hi  "  is 
used  (to  indicate  that  only  when  the  slaves  are  released  it  is  a 
jubilee),  so  says  R.  Jehudah.  R.  Jose  says:  "  It  is  a  jubilee," 
even  if  debts  are  not  relinquished  and  slaves  are  not  released ; 
shall  we  also  say  even  if  the  cornet  is  not  sounded  ?  Hence  the 
word  "hi"  is  used  (and  means  the  sounding  of  the  cornet). 
Since  one  passage  includes  (all  that  is  prescribed)  and  the  other 


*  I.e.,  the  Jubilee  year  is,  at  the  same  time,  the  fiftieth  year  of  the  last  and  the 
first  of  the  coming  series. 


'•NEW   YEAR. 


15 


passage  exempts  (certain  regulations),  why  should  we  say  it  is 
a  jubilee  even  if  they  have  not  released  slaves,  but  that  it  is  not 
a  jubilee  if  they  failed  to  sound  the  cornet  ?  Because  it  is  pos- 
sible that  sometimes  (a  jubilee  may  occur)  and  yet  there  are  no 
(Hebrew)  slaves  to  release,  but  a  jubilee  can  never  occur  with- 
out the  sounding  of  the  cornet  (for  a  cornet  can  always  be 
found).  Another  explanation  is,  that  (the  sounding  of  the  cor- 
net) is  the  duty  of  the  Beth  Din  (and  it  will  never  fail  to  per- 
form it),  while  (the  releasing  of  slaves)  is  the  duty  of  the  indi- 
vidual, and  we  cannot  be  sure  that  he  will  perform  it.  (Is  not 
the  first  explanation  satisfactory)  that  he  gives  this  additional 
explanation  ?  (It  may  not  be  satisfactory  to  some  who  might 
say)  that  it  is  impossible  that  not  one  (Hebrew)  slave  should  be 
found  somewhere  to  be  released.  Therefore  (the  Boraitha  adds) 
that  the  blowing  of  the  cornet  is  the  duty  of  the  Beth  Din  (and 
they  will  not  fail  to  perform  it). 

R.  Hyya  b.  Abba,  however,  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan: 
The  foregoing  are  the  words  of  R.  Jehudah  and  R.  Jose;  but 
the  masters  hold  that  all  three  conditions  may  prevent  the  fulfil- 
ment (of  the  law),  because  they  hold  that  the  word  "  hi  "  [Lev. 
XXV.  10]  should  be  explained  as  to  the  subjects  mentioned  in  the 
passage  in  which  it  occurs,  and  in  the  preceding  and  the  follow- 
ing passages  also,  (and  in  the  passage  immediately  following  the 
"  hi  "  is  said,  "  fields  reverted  to  their  original  owners."  This, 
then,  also  constitutes  one  of  the  three  conditions).  But  is  it  not 
written,  "  a  jubilee,"  which  certainly  means  to  add  something 
not  mentioned  previously?  This  additional  word  refers  to  the 
lands  outside  of  Palestine,  where  the  jubilee  must  also  be 
enforced.  If  so,  what  then  is  the  intent  of  the  words  "  through- 
out the  land  "  ?  (They  lead  us  to  infer)  that  at  the  time  when 
(under  a  Jewish  government)  liberty  is  proclaimed  throughout 
the  land  (Palestine)  it  should  be  proclaimed  outside  the  land ; 
but  if  it  is  not  proclaimed  in  the  land,  it  need  not  be  proclaimed 
outside  the  land. 

"And  also  for  the  planting  of  trees. ' '  Whence  do  we  deduce 
this?  From  Lev.  xix.  23,  where  it  is  written:  "Three  years 
shall  it  be  as  uncircumcised,"  and  also  [ibid.  24]:  "  But  in  the 
fourth  year."  We  compare  the  term  "year"  used  here  with 
that  of  Deut.  xi.  12,  "  from  the  beginning  of  the  *  year,'  "  and 
deduce  by  analogy  that  they  both  mean  Tishri. 

The  rabbis  taught :  For  one  who  plants,  slips  or  grafts  (trees) 
in  the  sixth  year  (the  year  before  the  sabbatic  year),  thirty  days 


i6  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

before  the  New  Year's  day  (as  soon  as  the  first  of  Tishri  arrived), 
a  year  is  considered  to  have  passed,  and  he  is  permitted  to  use, 
during  the  sabbatic  year  (the  fruits  they  may  produce),  but  less 
than  thirty  days  are  not  to  be  considered  a  year,  and  the  fruits 
may  not  be  used,  but  are  prohibited  until  the  fifteenth  of  Sheb- 
hat,  whether  it  be  because  they  come  under  the  category  of 
"  uncircumcised  "  or  under  the  category  of  "  fourth  year  plant- 
ing "  [Lev.  xix.  23,  24].  Whence  do  we  deduce  thia  ?  R. 
Hyya  bar  Abba  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  or  R.  Janai ; 
The  verse  says  [Lev.  xix.  24,  25]  :  "  And  in  the  fourth  year.  .  .  . 
And  in  the  fifth  year,"  i.e.,  it  may  happen  that  in  the  fourth 
year  (from  the  planting,  the  fruit)  is  prohibited  because  it  is  still 
"  uncircumcised,"  and  in  the  fifth  year  (from  the  planting) 
because  it  is  still  the  product  of  the  fourth  year. 

We  have  learned  R.  Eliezer  says:  In  Tishri  the  wo/ld  was 
created,  the  patriarchs  Abraham  and  Jacob  were  born  and  died ; 
Isaac  was  born  on  the  Passover;  on  New  Year's  Day  Sarah, 
Rachel,  and  Hannah  were  visited  with  the  blessing  of  cliildren, 
Joseph  was  released  from  prison,  and  the  bondage  of  our  fathers 
in  Egypt  ceased;  in  Nissan  our  ancestors  were  redeemed  from 
Egypt,  and  in  Tishri  we  shall  again  be  redeemed.  R.  Jehoshua 
says:  In  Nissan  the  world  was  created,  and  in  the  same  month 
the  patriarchs  were  born,  and  in  Nissan  they  also  died;  Isaac 
was  born  on  the  Passover;  on  New  Year's  Day  Sarah,  Rachel, 
and  Hannah  were  visited,  Joseph  was  released  from  priion,  and 
the  bondage  of  our  fathers  in  Egypt  ceased.  In  Nissan  our 
ancestors  were  redeemed  from  Egypt,  and  in  the  same  month 
we  shall  again  be  redeemed. 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha  R.  Eliezer  says:  Whence  do 
we  know  that  the  world  was  created  in  Tishri  ?  From  the  scrip- 
tural verse,  in  which  it  is  written  [Gen.  i.  11] :  "  And  God  said, 
'  Let  the  earth  bring  forth  grass,  the  herb  yielding  seed,  and  the 
fruit  tree,'  "  etc.  In  what  month  does  the  earth  bring  forth 
grass,  and  at  the  same  time  the  trees  are  fiill  of  fruit  ?  Let  us 
say  Tishri,  and  that  time  of  the  year  (mentioned  in  Genesis)  was 
the  autumn;  the  rain  descended  and  the  fruits  flourished,  as  it 
is  written  [Gen.  ii.  6]:  "  But  there  went  up  a  mist  from  the 
earth,"  etc.  R.  Jehoshua  says:  Whence  do  we  know  that  the 
world  was  created  in  Nissan  ?  From  the  scriptural  verse,  in 
which  it  is  written  [Gen.  i.  12]:  "  And  the  earth  brought  forth 
grass,  and  herb  yielding  seed,  and  the  tree  yielding  fruit,"  etc. 
In  which  month  is  the  earth  covered  with  grass  (and  at  the  same 


''NEW   YEAR." 


17 


time)  the  trees  bring  forth  fruit  ?  Let  us  say  Nissan,  and  at 
that  time  animals,  domestic  and  wild,  and  birds  mate,  as  it  is 
said  [Psalms,  Ixv.  14]  :  "  The  meadows  are  clothed  with  flocks," 
etc.  Further  says  R.  Eliezer:  Whence  do  we  know  that  the 
patriarchs  were  born  in  Tishri  ?  From  the  passage  [I  Kings, 
viii.  2]:  "  And  all  the  men  of  Israel  assembled  themselves  unto 
King  Solomon  at  the  feast,  in  the  month  Ethanim  "  (strong), 
which  is  the  seventh  month;  i.e.,  the  month  in  which  Ethanim, 
the  strong  ones  of  the  earth  (the  patriarchs),  were  born.  How 
do  we  know  that  the  expression  ethan  means  strength  ?  It  is 
written  [Numb.  xxiv.  21]  ethan  moshabhekha,  "  strong  is  thy 
dwelling-place,"  and  it  is  also  written  [Micah,  vi.  2]:  "Hear 
ye,  O  mountains,  the  Lord's  controversy,  and  [ve-haethanim)  ye 
strong  foundations,"  etc. 

R.  Jehoshua,  however,  says:  Whence  do  we  know  that  the 
patriarchs  were  born  in  Nissan  ?  From  I  Kings  vi.  i,  where  it 
says:  "  In  the  fourth  year,  in  the  month  Ziv  (glory),  which  is 
the  second  month,"  etc.,  which  means  in  that  month  in  which 
the  "  glorious  ones"  of  the  earth  (the  patriarchs)  were  already 
born.  Whether  the  patriarchs  were  born  in  Nissan  or  Tishri, 
the  day  of  their  death  occurred  in  the  same  month  as  that  in 
which  they  were  born;  as  it  is  written  [Deut.  xxxi.  2]:  "  Moses 
said,  '  I  am  one  hundred  and  twenty  years  old  to-day.*  "  The 
word  "  to-day"  implies  "  just  this  day  my  days  and  years  are 
complete,"  for  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  grants  the  right- 
eous the  fulfilment  of  the  years  of  their  life  to  the  very  month 
and  day,  as  it  is  said:  "  The  number  of  thy  days  will  I  make 
full  "  [Ex.  xxiii.  26]. 

Isaac  was  born  in  Nissan.  Whence  do  we  know  this  ?  It  is 
written  [Gen.  xviii.  14]:  "  At  the  next /estiva/ I  will  return  to 
thee,  and  Sarah  will  have  a  son."  What  festival  was  it  when 
he  said  this  ?  Shall  I  say  it  was  Passover,  and  he  referred  to 
Pentecost  ?  That  cannot  be,  for  what  woman  bears  children 
after  fifty  days'  gestation  ?  If  I  say  it  was  Pentecost,  and  he 
referred  to  Tishri,  a  similar  objection  might  be  raised,  for  who 
bears  children  after  five  months'  gestation  ?  If  I  say  it  was 
Tabernacles,  and  he  referred  to  Passover,  a  similar  objection 
may  be  made,  for  who  bears  children  in  the  sixth  month  of 
gestation  ?  This  last  objection  could  be  answered  according  to 
the  following  Boraitha:  We  have  learnt  that  that  year  was  a 
leap  year,  and  Mar  Zutra  says  that  although  a  child  born  after 
nine  months'  gestation  is  never  born  during  the  month  (but 
2 


i8  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

only  at  the  end  of  the  required  time),  still  a  seven  months'  child 
can  be  born  before  the  seventh  month  is  complete,  as  it  is  said 
[I  Sam.  i.  20]:  "And  it  came  to  pass,  li-tequphath  ha-yamim 
(when  the  time  was  come  about)  " ;  the  minimum  of  teqiiphoth* 
is  two  and  of  yatnim  is  also  two  {i.e.,  after  six  months  and  two 
days'  gestation,  childbirth  is  possible). 

Whence  do  we  know  that  Sarah,  Rachel,  and  Hannah  were 
visited  on  New  Year's  Day?  Says  R.  Elazar:  By  comparing 
the  expression  "  visit  "  that  occurs  in  one  passage  with  the 
word  "  visit  "  that  occurs  in  another  passage,  and  also  by  treat- 
ing the  expression  "  remember"  in  the  same  way.  It  is  writ- 
ten concerning  Rachel  [Gen.  xxx.  32]:  "  And  God  remembered 
Rachel,"  and  of  Hannah  it  is  written  [I  Sam.  i.  19]:  "And 
God  remembered  her."  He  institutes  an  analogy  between  the 
word  "remember"  used  in  these  passages  and  in  connection 
with  New  Year's  Day,  which  is  called  [Lev.  xxiii.  24]  "  a  Sab- 
bath, a  memorial  (literally,  a  remembrance)  of  blowing  of  cor- 
nets." It  is  also  written  concerning  Hannah  [I  Sam.  ii.  21]: 
"And  the  Lord  visited  Hannah,"  and  of  Sarah  it  is  written 
[Gen.  xxi.  i] :  "  And  the  Lord  visited  Sarah,"  and  by  analogy 
all  these  events  took  place  on  the  same  day  (New  Year's  Day). 

Whence  do  we  know  that  Joseph  was  released  from  prison 
on  New  Year's  Day  ?  From  Psalm  Ixxxi.,  in  verses  4,  5,  it  is 
written:  "  Blow  on  the  new  moon  the  cornet  at  the  appointed 
time  on  the  day  of  our  feast,  for  this  is  a  statute  for  Israel." 
In  verse  5  of  the  same  Psalm  it  is  written:  "  As  a  testimony  in 
Joseph  did  he  ordain  it,  when  he  went  out  over  the  land  of 
Egypt."  On  New  Year's  Day  the  bondage  of  our  fathers  in 
Egypt  ceased.  (Whence  do  we  know  this  ?)  It  is  written  [Ex. 
vi.  6]  :  "  I  will  bring  you  out  from  under  the  burdens  of  the 
Egyptians,"  and  it  is  written  in  Psalms,  Ixxxi.  6:  "  I  removed 
his  shoulder  from  the  burden"  {i.e.,  I  relieved  Israel  from  the 
burden  of  Egypt  on  the  day  spoken  of  in  the  Psalm;  viz.,  New 
Year's  Day).  In  Nissan  they  were  redeemed,  as  previously 
proven.  In  Tishri  we  shall  again  be  redeemed.  This  he  de- 
duces by  analogy  from  the  word  "  cornet  "  found  in  the  follow- 
ing passages.  In  Psalm  Ixxxi.  4,  it  is  stated:  "  Blow  the  cornet 
on  the  new  moon  "  {i.e.,  on  New  Year's  Day),  and  in  Isa.  xxvii. 
13,  it  is  written:  "  And  on  that  day  the  great  cornet  shall  be 

*  Tequpha — Solstice  or  equinox  ;  hence,  the  period  of  three  months,  which 
elapses  between  a  solstice  and  the  next  equinox,  is  also  called  tequpha.  Mar  Zutra 
reads  the  biblical  term  Tequphoit  in  the  plural. 


"NEW   YEAR."  19 

blown  "  (and  as  it  means  New  Year's  Day  in  the  one  place,  so 
does  it  also  in  the  other).  R.  Jehoshua  says:  "  In  Nissan  they 
were  redeemed,  and  in  that  month  we  shall  be  redeemed  again." 
Whence  do  we  know  this  ?  From  Ex.  xii.  42,  which  says:  "  It 
is  a  night  of  special  observance;"  i.e.,  a  m'ght  specially  ap- 
pointed since  the  earliest  times  for  the  final  redemption  of 
Israel. 

The  rabbis  taught :  The  Jewish  sages  calculate  the  time  of 
the  f^ood  according  to  R.  Eliezer,  and  the  solstices  according  to 
R.  Jehoshua,  but  the  sages  of  other  nations  calculate  the  time 
of  the  flood  also  as  R.  Jehoshua  does. 

"  And  for  herbs.''  To  this  a  Boraitha  adds  "tithes  and 
vows."  Let  us  see.  What  does  he  mean  by  "  herbs  "  ?  The 
tithe  of  herbs.  But  are  not  these  included  with  other  "  tithes  "  ? 
(Nay,  for  the  tithe  of  herbs)  is  a  rabbinical  institution,  while  the 
others  are  biblical.  If  so,  should  he  not  teach  the  biblical  com- 
mandment first  ?  (This  is  no  question),  because  it  was  pleasing 
to  him  (to  have  discovered  that,  although  the  tithe  of  herbs  is 
only  a  rabbinical  institution,  yet  it  should  have  a  special  New 
Year  to  prevent  the  confusion  of  tithes  from  year  to  year)  he, 
therefore,  gives  it  precedence.  And  the  Tana  of  our  Mishna 
teaches  us  the  rabbinical  institution  (viz.,  the  New  Year  for 
herbs),  leaving  us  to  infer  that  if  that  must  be  observed,  so  much 
the  more  must  the  biblical  law  be  followed. 

The  rabbis  taught :  If  one  gathers  herbs  on  the  eve  of  New 
Year's  Day  before  sunset,  and  gathers  others  after  sunset,  he 
must  not  give  the  heave-offering  or  the  tithe  from  the  one  for 
the  other,  for  it  is  prohibited  to  give  the  heave-offering  or  tithe 
from  the  product  of  the  past  year  for  that  of  the  present,  or  vice 
versa.  If  the  second  year  from  the  last  sabbatic  year  was  just 
ending  and  the  third  year  was  just  beginning,  then  for  the  sec- 
ond year  he  must  give  the  first  and  second  tithes,*  and  for  the 
third  year  he  must  give  the  first  and  the  poor  tithes.  Whence 
do  we  deduce  that  (in  the  third  year  no  second  tithe  was  to  be 


*  Tithes  must  be  given  even  to-day,  according  to  the  Rabbinical  law,  through- 
out Palestine  and  Syria. 

It  was  the  duty  of  the  Israelite  to  give  of  his  produce  the  following  offerings  and 
tithes  :  (i)  Theruma,  a  heave-offering,  to  be  given  to  the  priest  every  year  ;  the 
measure  was  not  fixed  by  the  Bible  ;  (2)  MaAser  Rishon,  or  first  tithe,  to  be  given 
every  year  to  the  Levite  ;  (3)  MaAser  Sheni,  or  second  tithe,  was  to  be  taken  in  the 
second  year  to  Jerusalem  and  eaten  there,  or  to  be  converted  into  money,  which  was 
to  be  spent  there  ;  (4)  MaAser  Ani,  or  the  poor  tithe,  to  be  given  in  the  third  year. 


20  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

given)?  R.  Jehoshua  ben  Levi  says:  In  Deut.  xxvi.  12,  it  is 
written:  "  When  thou  hast  made  an  end  of  the  tithe  of  produce 
in  the  third  year,  which  is  the  year  of  the  tithing,''  i.e.,  the  year 
in  which  only  one  tithe  is  to  be  given."  What  is  to  be  under- 
stood (by  one  tithe)  ?  The  first  and  poor  tithes,  and  the  second 
tithe  shall  be  omitted.  But  perhaps  it  is  not  so  (that  the  first 
and  poor  .tithe  are  one  tithe),  but  that  the  first  tithe  shall  be 
also  omitted.  This  cannot  be  so,  for  we  read  [Numb,  xviii.  26]: 
"  The  tithe  which  I  have  given  you  from  them,  for  your  inher- 
itance," etc.  (From  this  we  see  that)  the  Scripture  compares 
this  tithe  to  an  inheritance,  and  as  an  inheritance  is  the  per- 
petual property  of  the  heir,  so  also  is  the  first  tithe  an  uninter- 
rupted gift  for  the  Levite. 

''  And  for  vows.''  The  rabbis  taught:  Whoso  vows  to  de- 
rive no  benefit  from  his  neighbor  for  a  year,  must  reckon  (for 
the  year)  twelve  months,  from  day  to  day;  but  if  he  said  "  for 
this  year,"  if  he  made  the  vow  even  on  the  29th  of  Elul,  as  soon 
as  the  first  of  Tishri  comes,  that  year  is  complete,  for  he  vowed 
to  afflict  himself  and  that  purpose  (even  in  so  brief  a  period)  has 
been  fulfilled.  But  perhaps  we  should  say  Nissan  (should  be 
regarded  as  the  new  year  in  such  a  case)  ?  Nay,  in  the  matter 
of  vows  we  follow  the  common  practice  among  men  (who  gen- 
erally regard  Tishri  as  the  New  Year). 

We  have  learned  (Maasroth  I,,  3):  We  reckon  the  year  for 
giving  the  tithe  :  * '  for  carob  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  grow ;  for  grain 
and  olives  as  soon  as  they  are  one-third  ripe. ' '  What  is  meant  by 
"  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  grow  "  ?  When  it  blossoms.  Whence 
do  we  know  that  we  reckon  the  tithe  on  grain  and  olives  when 
they  are  one-third  ripe  ?  Said  R.  Assi  in  the  name  of  R,  Jo- 
hanan,  and  the  same  was  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Jose  of  Galilee: 
It  is  written  [Deut.  xxxi.  10]:  "At  the  end  of  every  seven 
years,  in  the  solemnity  of  the  year  of  release,  in  the  Feast  of 
Tabernacles."  What  has  the  year  of  release  to  do  with  Taber- 
nacles; it  is  already  the  eighth  year  (because  the  Bible  says  "  at 
the  end  of  every  seven  years")  ?  It  is  only  to  tell  us  that  all 
grain  which  was  one-third  ripe  before  New  Year's  Day  must  be 
regarded  even  in  the  eighth  year  as  the  product  of  the  sabbatic 
year.  And  for  this  we  find  support  in  the  following  Boraitha: 
R.  Jonathan  b.  Joseph  says:  It  is  written  [Lev.  xxv.  21]  :  "  And 
it  shall  bring  forth  fruit  for  three  {lishlosh)  years."  Do  not  read 
lishlosh  "  for  three,"  but  in  this  case  read  lishlish  "  for  a  third  " 
{i.e.,  it  is  considered  produce  when  it  is  a  third  ripe).     But  this 


"NEW   YEAR."  21 

verse  is  required  for  its  own  particular  purpose.  There  is  an- 
other verse  [ibid.  ibid.  22]:  "  And  when  ye  sow  in  the  eighth 
year,  then  shall  ye  eat  of  the  old  harvest ;  until  the  ninth  year, 
until  its  harvest  come  in,  shall  ye  eat  of  the  old  store." 

We  have  learned  in  a  Mishna  (Shebeith,  II.,  7):  Rice,  millet, 
poppies,  and  lentils  which  have  taken  root  before  New  Year's 
Day  come  under  the  category  of  tithes  for  the  past  year,  and 
therefore  one  is  permitted  to  use  them  during  the  sabbatic  year ; 
but  if  they  have  not  (taken  root),  one  is  forbidden  to  use  them 
during  the  sabbatic  year,  and  they  come  under  the  category  of 
tithes  of  the  following  year.  Says  Rabha:  Let  us  see.  The 
rabbis  say  that  the  year  (for  giving  tithes)  begins  as  follows: 
"  For  a  tree  from  the  time  they  blossom,  for  grain  and  olives 
when  they  are  one-third  ripe,  and  for  herbs  when  they  are  gath- 
ered. ' '  Now  under  which  head  are  the  above  (rice,  etc.)  classed  ? 
After  consideration  Rabha  remarked :  Since  these  do  not  all 
ripen  simultaneously,  but  are  gathered  little  by  little,  the  rabbis 
are  right  when  they  say  they  are  tithable  from  the  time  they 
take  root. 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  R.  Jose  of  Galilee  says:  It 
is  written  [Deut.  xvi.  13]:  "  When  thou  hast  gathered  in  thy 
corn  and  thy  wine."  We  infer  that  as  corn  and  wine,  now 
being  gathered,  grow  by  means  of  the  past  year's  rains,  and  are 
tithed  as  last  year's  (before  New  Year's  Day)  products,  so  every 
fruit  that  grows  by  the  rain  of  last  year  is  tithable  as  the  last 
year's  produce;  but  herbs  do  not  come  under  this  category,  for 
they  grow  by  means  of  the  rains  of  the  new  year,  and  they  are 
tithable  in  the  coming  year,  R.  Aqiba,  however,  says  that  the 
words  "  when  thou  hast  gathered  in  thy  corn  and  thy  wine" 
lead  us  to  infer  that  as  corn  and  grapes  grow  chiefly  by  means 
of  rain,  and  are  tithed  as  last  year's  products,  so  all  things  that 
grow  chiefly  by  rain  are  tithed  as  belonging  to  the  past  year; 
but  as  herbs  grow  even  by  watering,  they  are  tithed  as  the  next 
year's  products.  In  what  case  is  this  difference  of  opinion  ap- 
plicable? Said  R.  Abbuha:  In  the  cases  of  onions  and  Egyptian 
beans;  for  a  Mishna  says:  Onions  and  Egyptian  beans  which 
have  not  been  watered  for  thirty  days  before  New  Year's  Day 
are  tithed  as  last  year's  products,  and  are  allowed  to  be  used 
during  the  sabbatic  year,  but  if  they  have  been  watered,  then 
they  are  prohibited  during  the  sabbatic  year  and  are  tithed  as 
next  year's  products. 

* '  On  the  first  of  Shebhat  is  the  New  Year  for  trees. ' '     Why 


22  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

so  ?  Said  R.  Elazar,  in  the  name  of  R.  Oshyia,  because  at  that 
date  the  greater  part  of  the  early  rains  have  fallen,  although  the 
greater  part  of  the  Tequpha  is  yet  to  come.  The  rabbis  taught: 
It  once  happened  that  R.  Aqiba  picked  the  fruit  of  a  citron  tree 
on  the  first  of  Shebhat,  and  gave  two  tithes  of  them,  one  accord- 
ing to  the  school  of  Shammai  and  one  in  accordance  with  the 
school  of  Hillel.  Says  R.  Jose  b.  Jehudah:  Nay,  Aqiba  did 
not  do  this  because  of  the  school  of  Shammai  or  the  school  of 
Hillel,  but  because  R.  Gamaliel*  and  R.  Eliezer  were  accus- 
tomed to  do  so.  Did  he  not  follow  the  practice  of  Beth  Sham- 
mai because  it  was  the  first  of  Shebhat  ?  Said  R.  Hanina,  and 
some  say  R.  Hanania:  The  case  here  cited  was  one  of  a  citron 
tree,  the  fruit  of  which  was  formed  before  the  fifteenth  of  last 
Shebhat,  and  he  should  have  given  the  tithe  of  it  even  before 
the  present  first  of  Shebhat,  but  the  case  happened  to  be  as 
cited.  But  Rabhina  said :  Put  the  foregoing  together  and  read 
the  (words  of  R.  Jose)  as  follows:  It  did  not  happen  on  the  first 
of  Shebhat,  but  on  the  fifteenth,  and  he  did  not  follow  the  regu- 
lations of  the  school  of  Hillel  or  the  school  of  Shammai,  but  the 
custom  of  R.  Gamaliel  and  R.  Eliezer,  Rabba  bar  Huna  said: 
Although  R.  Gamaliel  holds  that  a  citron  tree  is  tithable  from 
the  time  it  is  picked,  as  is  the  case  with  "  herbs,"  nevertheless 
the  new  year  for  tithing  it  is  in  Shebhat.  R.  Johanan  asked  R. 
Janai:  "When  is  the  beginning  of  a  year  for  (the  tithe  on) 
citrons  ?"  And  he  said,  "  Shebhat."  "  Dost  thou  mean,"  said 
he,  "  the  month  Shebhat  as  fixed  by  the  lunar  year  or  by  the 
solar  year  (from  the  winter  solstice)  ?"  "By  the  lunar  year," 
he  replied.  Rabha  asked  R.  Na'hman,  according  to  another 
version  R.  Johanan  asked  R.  Janai:  "  How  is  it  in  leap  years 
(when  there  are  thirteen  lunar  months)?"  And  he  said: 
"  Shebhat,  as  in  the  majority  of  years."  It  was  taught:  R. 
Johanan  and  Resh  Lakish  both  say  that  a  citron  that  has  grown 
in  the  sixth  year  and  is  unpicked  at  the  entrance  of  the  sabbatic 
year  is  always  considered  the  product  of  the  sixth  year.  When 
Rabhin  came  (from  Palestine)  he  said,  in  the  name  of  R.  Jo- 
hanan :  A  citron  that  was  as  small  as  an  olive  in  the  sixth  year, 
but  grew  to  the  size  of  a  (small)  loaf  of  bread  during  the  sab- 
batic year,  if  one  used  it  without  separating  the  tithe  he  is  cul- 
pable because  of  Tebhel.\ 

*  The  opinion  of  R.  Gamaliel  is  stated  a  little  further  on. 

f  Produce  of  which  the  levitical  and  priestly  tithe  has  not  been  yet  separated, 
and  which  must  not  be  used. 


"NEW   YEAR."  23 

The  rabbis  taught:  A  tree  whose  fruits  formed  before  the 
fifteenth  of  Shebhat  must  be  tithed  as  the  product  of  the  past 
year,  but  if  they  formed  after  that,  they  are  tithed  during  the 
coming  year.  Said  R.  Nehemiah:  This  applies  to  a  tree  that 
looks  as  if  it  bore  two  crops;  i.e.,  whose  fruits  do  not  ripen  all 
at  once,  but  at  two  times.  But  in  the  case  of  a  tree  that 
produces  but  one  crop,  as,  for  example,  the  palm,  olive,  or 
carob,  although  their  fruits  may  have  formed  before  the  fifteenth 
of  Shebhat,  they  are  tithed  as  the  products  of  the  coming  year. 
R.  Johanan  remarked  that  in  the  case  of  the  carob  people  follow 
the  opinion  of  R.  Nehemiah.  Resh  Lakish  objected  to  R.  Jo- 
hanan :  Since  white  figs  take  three  years  to  grow  fully  ripe, 
must  not  the  second  year  after  the  sabbatic  year  be  regarded  as 
the  sabbatic  year  for  them  ?  R.  Johanan  was  silent.  R.  Abba 
the  priest  said  to  R.  Jose  the  priest:  I  am  surprised  that  R. 
Johanan  should  have  accepted  this  query  of  Resh  Lakish  with- 
out comment. 

MISHNA:  At  four  periods  in  each  year  the  world  is  judged: 
on  Passover,  in  respect  to  the  growth  of  grain;  on  Pentecost,  in 
respect  to  the  fruit  of  trees;  on  New  Year's  Day  all  human 
beings  pass  before  Him  (God)  as  sheep  before  a  shepherd,  as  it 
is  written  [Psalms,  xxx.  9]:  "  He  who  hath  fashioned  all  their 
hearts  understandeth  all  their  works";*  and  on  Tabernacles 
judgment  is  given  in  regard  to  water  (rain). 

GEMARA:  What  grain  (does  the  divine  judgment  affect  on 
the  Passover)  ?  Does  it  mean  the  grain  now  standing  in  the 
field  (about  to  be  reaped)  ?  At  what  time,  then,  were  all  the 
accidents  that  have  happened  to  it  until  that  time  destined  (by 
divine  will)  ?  It  does  not  mean  standing  grain,  but  that  just 
sown.  Shall  we  say  that  only  one  judgment  is  passed  upon  it  ? 
Have  we  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  If  an  accident  or  injury  befall 
grain  before  Passover  it  was  decreed  on  the  last  Passover,  but  if 
it  happen  (to  the  same  grain)  after  Passover,  it  was.  decreed  on 
the  immediately  preceding  Passover;  if  an  accident  or  misfor- 
tune befall  a  man  before  the  Day  of  Atonement,  it  was  decreed 
on  the  previous  Day  of  Atonement,  but  if  it  happened  after  the 
Day  of  Atonement  it  was  decreed  on  the  preceding  Day  of 
Atonement?  Answered  Rabha:  Learn  from  this  that  judgment 
is  passed  twice  (in  one  year,  before  the  sowing  and  before  the 
reaping).     Therefore  said  Abayi:    When  a  man  sees  that  the 


*  Vide  Introduction. 


24  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

grain  which  ripens  slowly  is  thriving,  he  should  as  soon  as  possi- 
ble sow  such  grain  as  ripens  quickly,  in  order  that  before  the 
time  of  the  next  judgment  it  may  already  have  begun  to  grow. 

With  whose  opinion  does  our  Mishna  agree  ?  Not  with  that  of 
R.  Meir,  nor  with  that  of  R.  Jehudah,  nor  with  that  of  R.  Jose,  nor 
with  that  of  R.  Nathann,  nor  with  the  teaching  of  the  following 
Boraitha:  All  are  judged  on  New  Year's  Day,  and  the  sentence 
is  fixed  on  the  Day  of  Atonement.  So  says  R.  Meir.  R.  Jehu- 
dah says  all  are  judged  on  New  Year's  Day,  but  the  sentence  of 
each  is  confirmed  each  at  its  special  time — at  Passover  for  grain, 
at  Pentecost  for  the  fruit  of  trees,  at  Tabernacles  for  rain,  and 
man  is  judged  on  New  Year's  Day,  and  his  sentence  is  con- 
firmed on  the  Day  of  Atonement.  R.  Jose  says  man  is  judged 
every  day,  as  it  is  written  [Job,  vii.  i8J:  "  Thou  rememberest 
him  every  morning  "  ;  and  R.  Nathan  holds  man  is  judged  at 
all  times,  as  it  is  written  [ibid.]:  "  Thou  triest  him  every  mo- 
ment." And  if  you  should  say  that  the  Mishna  agrees  with 
the  opinion  of  R,  Jehudah,  and  that  by  the  expression  "  judg- 
ment "  it  means  the  "  confirmation  of  the  decree,"  then  there 
would  be  a  difificulty  about  man.  Said  Rabha:  The  Tana  of 
our  Mishna  is  in  accordance  with  the  school  of  R.  Ishmael  of 
the  following  Boraitha:  At  four  periods  is  the  world  judged:  at 
Passover,  in  respect  to  grain ;  on  Pentecost,  in  regard  to  the 
fruit  of  trees;  on  Tabernacles,  in  respect  to  rain,  and  on  New 
Year's  Day  man  is  judged,  but  the  sentence  passed  upon  him  is 
confirmed  on  the  Day  of  Atonement,  and  our  Mishna  speaks  of 
the  opening  of  judgment  only  (and  not  the  final  verdict). 

R.  Hisda  asked:  "  Why  does  not  R.  Jose  quote  the  same 
passage  as  R.  Nathan  in  support  of  his  opinion?"  Because 
"  trying"  is  not  judging.  But  does  not  "  remembering"  also 
convey  the  same  idea  ?  Therefore  said  R.  Hisda:  R.  Jose  bases 
his  opinion  on  another  passage;  viz.  [I  Kings  viii.  59]:  "  That 
God  may  maintain  the  cause  of  His  servant  and  the  cause  of 
His  people  Israel  every  day.  Said  R.  Joseph :  According  to 
whom  do  we  pray  nowadays  for  the  sick  and  for  faint  (scholars) 
every  day  ?  According  to  R.  Jose  (who  maintains  that  man  is 
judged  every  day). 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  R.  Jehudah  taught  in  the 
name  of  R.  Aqiba:  Why  does  the  Torah  command  [Lev.  xxiii. 
10]  a  sheaf  of  the  first  fruits  to  be  brought  on  the  Passover  ? 
Because  Passover  is  the  period  of  judgment  in  respect  to  grain, 
and  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  said:  "  Offer  before  Me  the 


"NEW   YEAR."  25 

first  sheaf  of  produce  on  Passover,  so  that  the  standing  grain 
may  be  blessed  unto  you."  And  why  the  two  loaves  [Lev. 
xxiii.  17]  on  the  Pentecost  ?  Because  that  is  the  time  when 
judgment  is  passed  on  the  fruit  of  trees,  and  the  Holy  One,  blessed 
be  He,  said:  "  Bring  before  Me  two  loaves  on  the  Pentecost,  so 
that  I  may  bless  the  fruits  of  the  tree."  Why  was  the  cere- 
mony of  "  the  outpouring  of  water"  (on  the  altar)  performed 
on  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles  ?  Because  He  said  :  "  Perform  the 
rite  of  '  the  outpouring  of  waters,'  that  the  rains  shall  fall  in  due 
season."  And  He  also  said  :  "  Recite  before  Me  on  New  Year's 
Day  the  Malkhioth,  Zikhronoth,  and  Shophroth;*  the  Mal- 
khioth,  that  you  proclaim  Me  King;  the  Zikhronoth,  that  your 
remembrance  for  good  may  come  before  Me."  And  how  (shall 
this  be  done)  ?     By  the  sounding  of  the  cornet. 

R.  Abbahu  said :  "  Why  is  the  cornet  made  a  ram's  horn  ? " 
The  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  said:  "  Sound  before  Me  on  a 
cornet  made  of  a  ram's  horn,  that  I  may  remember,  for  your 
sake,  the  offering  of  Isaac,  the  son  of  Abraham  \inde  Gen.  xxii. 
13],  and  I  shall  consider  even/(?«  as  worthy,  as  if  ye  had  shown 
an  equal  readiness  to  sacrifice  yourselves  to  Me," 

R.  Itz'hak  said:  A  man  is  judged  only  according  to  his  deeds 
at  the  time  of  sentence,  as  it  is  written  [Gen.  xxi.  17]:  "  God 
heard  the  voice  of  the  lad,  as  he  then  was,"  and  the  same  rabbi 
also  remarked :  Three  circumstances  cause  a  man  to  remember 
his  sins;  viz.,  when  he  passes  by  an  insecure  wall,  when  he 
thinks  deeply  of  the  significance  of  his  prayer,  and  when  he 
invokes  divine  judgment  on  his  neighbor,  for  R.  Abhin  says: 
Whoso  calls  down  divine  judgment  on  his  neighbor  is  punished 
first,  as  we  find  in  the  case  of  Sarah,  who  said  [Gen.  xvi.  5]  to 
Abraham:  "  I  suffer  wrong  through  thee,  may  the  Lord  judge 
between  me  and  thee."  And  shortly  after  we  read  (that  she 
died):  "  And  Abraham  came  to  mourn  for  Sarah  and  to  weep 
for  her"  [Gen.  xxiii.  2].  (Naturally  this  only  applies  to  cases 
where  appeal  could  have  been  made  to  a  civil  court,  and  the 
invocation  of  divine  judgment  was  not  necessary. f)     R.  Itz'hak 

*  These  are  the  divisions  of  the  Additional  Service  for  the  New  Year's  Day. 
The  Malkhioth  consist  of  ten  scriptural  passages  in  which  God  is  proclaimed  King. 
The  Zikhronoth  consist  of  an  equal  number  of  scriptural  passages  in  which  Divine 
remembrance  is  alluded  to.  The  Shophroth  are  a  similar  series  of  selections  in  which 
the  Shophar  (cornet)  is  referred  to.  In  Chapter  IV.  of  this  tract  there  is  a  discussion 
as  to  the  composition  of  these  selections.  We  retain  the  Hebrew  names,  because  we 
feel  that  no  translation  or  paraphrase  will  adequately  express  what  they  mean. 

f  This  is  taken  from  Tract  Baba  Kama. 


26  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

preached:  Four  things  avert  the  evil  decree  passed  (by  God)  on 
man— viz.  :  charity,  prayer,  change  of  name,  and  improvement. 
"Charity,"  as  it  is  written  [Prov.  x.  2]:  "Charity  delivereth 
from  death."  "  Prayer,"  in  accordance  with  [Psalms,  cvii. 
19]:  "  They  cry  unto  the  Lord  when  they  are  in  distress,  and 
He  saveth  them  out  of  their  afflictions."  "  Change  of  name," 
as  it  is  written  [Gen.  xvii.  15]:  "As  for  Sarai,  thy  wife,  thou 
shalt  not  call  her  name  Sarai,  but  Sarah  shall  her  name  be," 
and  the  text  continues  by  saying  [ibid.  16]:  "  Then  will  I  bless 
her,  and  give  thee  a  son  also  of  her."  "  Improvement,"  we 
deduce  from  Jonah,  iii.  10 :  "And  God  saw  their  works  that 
they  had  turned  from  their  evil  ways,"  and  immediately  adds : 
"  And  God  bethought  Himself  of  the  evil  He  had  said  He  would 
do  unto  them,  and  He  did  it  not."  Some  add  to  these  four 
a  fifth,  change  of  location,  as  it  is  written  [Gen.  xii.  I  and  2]: 
"  And  God  said  to  Abraham,  get  thee  out  from  thy  land  "  (and 
afterwards),  "  I  will  make  of  thee  a  great  nation." 

R.  Kruspedai  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan :  Three  books 
are  opened  on  New  Year's  Day :  one  for  the  utterly  wicked,  one 
for  the  wholly  good,  and  one  for  the  average  class  of  people. 
The  wholly  righteous  are  at  once  inscribed,  and  life  is  decreed 
for  them ;  the  entirely  wicked  are  at  once  inscribed,  and  destruc- 
tion destined  for  them ;  the  average  class  are  held  in  the  balance 
from  New  Year's  Day  till  the  Day  of  Atonement;  if  they  prove 
themselves  worthy  they  are  inscribed  for  life,  if  not  they  are 
inscribed  for  destruction.  Said  R,  Abhin :  Whence  this  teach- 
ing ?  From  the  passage  [Psalms,  Ixix.  29]:  "Let  them  be 
blotted  out  of  the  book  of  the  living,  and  they  shall  not  be  writ- 
ten down  with  the  righteous." 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  The  school  of  Shammai  said : 
There  are  three  divisions  of  mankind  at  the  Resurrection :  the 
wholly  righteous,  the  utterly  wicked,  and  the  average  class. 
The  wholly  righteous  are  at  once  inscribed,  and  life  is  decreed 
for  them ;  the  utterly  wicked  are  at  once  inscribed,  and  destined 
for  Gehenna,  as  we  read  [Dan.  xii.  2]  :  "  And  many  of  them 
that  sleep  in  the  dust  shall  awake,  some  to  everlasting  life,  and 
some  to  shame  and  everlasting  contempt."  The  third  class,  the 
men  between  the  former  two,  descend  to  Gehenna,  but  they 
weep  and  come  up  again,  in  accordance  with  the  passage  [Zech. 
xiii.  9]:  "  And  I  will  bring  the  third  part  through  the  fire,  and 
I  will  refine  them  as  silver  is  refined,  and  will  try  them  as  gold 
is  tried;  and  he  shall  call  on  My  name,  and  I  will  answer  him." 


"NEW   YEAR."  27 

Concerning  this  last  class  of  men  Hannah  says  [I  Sam.  ii.  6] : 
"  The  Lord  causeth  to  die  and  maketh  ahve,  He  bringeth  down 
to  the  grave  and  bringeth  up  again."  The  school  of  Hillel 
says:  The  Merciful  One  inclines  (the  scale  of  justice)  to  the  side 
of  mercy,  and  of  this  third  class  of  men  David  says  [Psalms, 
cxvi.  i]:  "  It  is  lovely  to  me  that  the  Lord  heareth  my  voice  " ; 
in  fact,  David  applies  to  them  the  Psalm  mentioned  down  to 
the  words,  "  Thou  hast  delivered  my  soul  from  death  "  [ibid.  8]. 

Transgressors  of  Jewish  birth  and  also  of  non-Jewish  birth, 
who  sin  with  their  body  descend  to  Gehenna,  and  are  judged 
there  for  twelve  months;  after  that  time  their  bodies  are  de- 
stroyed and  burnt,  and  the  winds  scatter  their  ashes  under  the 
soles  of  the  feet  of  the  righteous,  as  we  read  [Mai.  iii.  23] : 
"  And  ye  shall  tread  down  the  wicked,  for  they  shall  be  as  ashes 
under  the  soles  of  your  feet  "  ;  but  as  for  Minim,  informers  and 
disbelievers,  who  deny  the  Torah,  or  Resurrection,  or  separate 
themselves  from  the  congregation,  or  who  inspire  their  fellow- 
men  with  dread  of  them,  or  who  sin  and  cause  others  to  sin,  as 
did  Jeroboam  the  son  of  Nebat  and  his  followers,  they  all  de- 
scend to  Gehenna,  and  are  judged  there  from  generation  to  gen- 
eration, as  it  is  said  [Isa.  Ixvi.  24]:  "  And  they  shall  go  forth 
and  look  upon  the  carcases  of  the  men  who  have  transgressed 
against  Me;  for  their  worm  shall  not  die,  neither  shall  their  fire 
be  quenched."  Even  when  Gehenna  will  be  destroyed,  they 
will  not  be  consumed,  as  it  is  written  [Psalms,  xlix.  15] :  "  And 
their  forms  wasteth  away  in  the  nether  world,"  which  the  sages 
comment  upon  to  mean  that  their  forms  shall  endure  even  when 
the  grave  is  no  more.  Concerning  them  Hannah  says  [I  Sam. 
ii.  10]  :  "  The  adversaries  of  the  Lord  shall  be  broken  to  pieces." 
R.  Itz'hac  b.  Abhin  says:  "  Their  faces  are  black  like  the  sides  of 
a  caldron  "  ;  while  Rabha  remarked:  "  Those  who  are  now  the 
handsomest  of  the  people  of  Me'huzza  will  yet  be  called  the 
children  of  Gehenna." 

What  is  meant  by  Jews  who  transgress  with  their  body? 
Says  Rabh  :  The  Qarqaphtha  (frontal  bone)  on  which  the  phylac- 
teries are  not  placed.*     And  who  are  meant  by  non-Jews  who 


*  There  were  sects  at  that  time  who  did  not  wear  the  phylacteries  on  the  frontal 
bone,  but  on  other  places.  The  people  here  referred  to  are  those  mentioned  in 
Mishna  Megillah  III.  5.  Those  who  do  not  wear  phylacteries  at  all  are,  under  no 
circumstances,  included  under  the  head  of  these  transgressors.  {Vide  Tosaphoth,  ad 
loc.)  For  fuller  information  the  reader  is  referred  to  our  "  The  History  of  Amulets, 
Charms,  and  Talismans  "  (New  York,  1S93). 


28  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

transgress  with  the  body  ?  Those  guilty  of  the  sin  (of  adultery). 
Who  are  those  who  inspire  tlicir  fellowmen  with  dread  of  them  ? 
A  leader  of  a  community  who  causes  the  people  to  fear  him 
overmuch  without  furthering  thereby  a  high  purpose.  R.  Jehu- 
dah  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  No  such  leader  will  ever  have 
a  learned  son,  as  it  is  said  [Job,  xxxvii.  24]:  "  Men  do  there- 
fore fear  him:  he  will  never  see  (in  his  family)  any  wise  of 
heart." 

The  school  of  Hillel  said  above :  He  who  is  full  of  compas- 
sion will  incline  the  scale  of  justice  to  the  side  of  mercy.  How 
does  He  do  it  ?  Answered  R.  Eliezer :  He  presses  on  (the  side 
containing  our  virtues),  as  it  is  said  [Micah,  vii.  19]:  "  He  will 
turn  again,  he  will  have  compassion  upon  us,  he  will  suppress 
our  iniquities."  R.  Jose  says:  He  lifts  off  {^^  sins),  as  it  is 
said  [ibid.  18]:  "He  pardoneth  iniquity  and  forgiveth  trans- 
gression." And  it  was  taught  in  the  school  of  R.  Ishmael  that 
this  means  that  He  removes  each  first  sin  (so  that  there  is  no 
second),  and  this  is  the  correct  interpretation.  "  But,"  Rabha 
remarked,  "  the  sin  itself  is  not  blotted  out,  so  that  if  one  be 
found  in  later  times  with  more  sins  (than  virtues),  the  sin  not 
blotted  out  will  be  added  to  the  later  ones;  whoso  treats  with 
indulgence  one  who  has  wronged  him  (forms  an  exception  to 
this  rule),  for  he  will  have  all  his  sins  forgiven,  as  it  is  said 
[Micah,  vii.  18]:  "  He  pardoneth  iniquity  and  forgiveth  trans- 
gression." From  whom  does  He  remove  iniquity  ?  From  him 
who  forgiveth  transgression  (committed  against  him  by  his 
neighbor). 

R.  Huna  ben  R.  Jehoshua  fell  sick,  and  R.  Papa  went  to 
visit  him.  The  latter  saw  that  the  end  was  near,  and  said  to 
those  present:  "  Make  ready  his  provisions  (shrouds)."  Finally 
he  recovered,  and  R.  Papa  was  ashamed  to  see  him.  "  Why 
did  you  think  him  so  sick  ?  "  said  they.  "  He  was  so,  indeed," 
he  replied,  "  but  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  said  that  since 
he  was  always  indulgent  (with  every  one),  he  shall  be  forgiven," 
as  it  is  written :  "He  pardoneth  iniquity  and  forgiveth  trans- 
gression." From  whom  does  He  remove  iniquity  ?  From  him 
who  forgiveth  transgression. 

R.  A'h  the  son  of  Hanina  said  :  The  phrase  "  of  the  remnant 
of  his  inheritance  "  [Micah,  vii.  iS]  is  like  unto  a  fat  tail  (of  an 
Arabian  sheep)  with  a  thorn  through  it  (that  will  stick  those 
that  lay  hold  of  it);  (for  He  forgives)  the  remnant  of  His  inher- 
itance, and  not  all   His  inheritance.     What  is  meant  by  rem- 


"NEW   YEAR."  29 

nant  ?  Only  those  who  deport  themselves  like  a  remnant  {i.e., 
modestly).  R.  Huna  points  out  a  contradiction  in  these  pas- 
sages. It  is  written  [Psalms,  cxlv.  17]:  "  The  Lord  '\s  Just  in 
all  his  ways,"  and  in  the  same  passage,  "  and  pioics  in  all  his 
works."  It  means,  in  the  beginning  He  is  on\y Just,  but  in  the 
end  He  \%  piojis  (when  He  finds  that  strict  justice  is  too  severe 
on  mankind  He  tempers  justice  with  piety  or  mercy).  R.  Elazar 
also  points  out  a  contradiction.  It  is  written  [Psalms,  Ixii.  12]: 
"Unto  thee,  O  Lord,  belongeth  mercy;''  and  again,  "thou 
renderest  to  every  man  according  to  his  %vork."  This  can  be  ex- 
plained as  the  above:  In  the  beginning  He  rewards  every  man 
according  to  his  works,  but  in  the  end  He  is  merciful.  Ilphi  or 
Ilpha  points  out  a  similar  contradiction  in  [Ex.  xxxiv.  6],  where 
it  is  written  "  abundant  in  goodness  and  truth,"  and  gives  a  sim- 
ilar explanation. 

It  is  written  [Ex.  xxxiv.  6]:  "And  the  Lord  passed  by 
before  him  and  proclaimed."  R.  Johanan  said:  Had  this  pas- 
sage not  been  written,  it  would  have  been  impossible  to  have 
said  it,  for  it  teaches  us  that  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He, 
wrapped  Himself,  as  does  a  minister  who  recites  the  prayers  for 
a  congregation,  and  pointing  out  to  Moses  the  regular  order  of 
prayer,  said  to  him :  Whenever  Israel  sins,  let  him  pray  to  Me, 
after  this  manner,  and  I  shall  pardon  him. 

"  The  Lord,  the  Lord,"  (these  words  mean)  I  am  the  same 
God  before  a  man  sins  as  I  am  after  he  sins  and  does  repent- 
ance. "  God,  merciful  and  gracious."  R.  Jehudah  said  (con- 
cerning these  words):  The  covenant  made  through  the  thirteen 
attributes  [Ex.  xxxiv.]  will  never  be  made  void,  as  it  is  said 
[ibid.  10]:  "  Behold  /make  a  covenant." 

R.  Johanan  said:  Great  is  repentance,  for  it  averts  the  (evil) 
decreed  against  a  man,  as  it  is  written  [Isa.  vi.  10]:  "  Obdurate 
will  remain  the  heart  of  this  people,  .  .  .  nor  hear  with  their 
ears,  nor  understand  with  their  hearts,  so  that  they  repent  and 
be  healed."  R.  Papa  asked  Abayi:  Do  not  these  last  words, 
perhaps,  mean  before  the  (evil)  decree  has  been  pronounced  ? 
It  is  written,  he  replied,  "  be  healed."  What  is  that  which 
requires  healing  ?  I  can  only  say  that  against  which  judgment 
has  been  pronounced.  An  objection  was  raised  from  the  fol- 
lowing Boraitha:  He  who  repents  between  (New  Year's  Day 
and  the  Day  of  Atonement)  is  forgiven,  but  if  he  does  not 
repent,  even  though  he  offered  the  choicest  sacrifice,  he  is  not 
pardoned.     This  presents  no  difficulty ;  in  the  one  case  it  refers  to 


30  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

(the  sins  of)  an  individual,  and  in  the  other  to  (those  of)  a  com- 
munity. Another  objection  was  raised.  Come  and  hear.  It 
is  written  [Psalms,  cvii.  23-28]:  "They  that  go  down  to  the 
sea  in  ships,  that  do  business  in  great  waters ;  these  see  the  works 
of  the  Lord  ...  for  he  commandeth,  and  raiseth  the  stormy 
wind,  which  lifteth  up  the  waves  thereof,  they  reel  to  and  fro, 
and  stagger  like  a  drunken  man,  .  .  .  then  they  cry  unto  the 
Lord  in  their  trouble,  and  he  bringeth  them  out  of  their  afflic- 
tions; oh,  that  men  would  praise  the  Lord  for  his  goodness," 
etc.  Signs  are  given,  such  as  the  words  "  but  "  and  "  only  "  in 
the  Scriptures  (which  intimate  limiting  qualifications),  to  indicate 
that  if  they  cried  before  the  decree  was  pronounced,  only  then 
would  they  be  answered;  but  if  after,  they  are  not  answered. 
(Would  not  this  be  a  contradiction  to  the  words  "  to  those  of 
a  community  "  ?)  Nay,  for  those  on  a  ship  are  not  a  community 
(but  are  considered  as  individuals). 

Come  and  hear.  The  proselyte  Beluria  (a  woman)  asked 
R.  Gamaliel  (concerning  the  following  apparent  contradiction) : 
It  is  written  in  your  Law  [Deut.  17]:  "  The  Lord  who  regard- 
eth  not  persons"  {literally,  who  lifteth  not  up  countenances); 
and  it  is  also  written  [Numb.  vi.  26]:  "  May  the  Lord  lift  up 
his  countenance."  R.  Jose,  the  priest,  joined  her,  and  said  to 
her:  "  I  will  tell  thee  a  parable.  To  what  may  this  be  com- 
pared ?  To  one  who  lent  money  to  his  neighbor,  and  set  a  time 
for  its  repayment  before  the  king,  and  (the  borrower)  swore  by 
the  king's  life  (to  repay  it  on  time).  The  time  arrived,  and  he 
did  not  pay,  and  he  came  to  appease  the  king.  Said  the  king 
to  him,  '  I  can  forgive  you  only  your  offence  against  me,  but 
I  cannot  forgive  you  your  offence  against  your  neighbor;  go 
and  ask  him  to  forgive  you.'  "  So  also  here;  in  the  one  place 
it  means  sins  committed  by  a  man  against  Himself  (the  Lord),  but 
in  the  other  it  means  sins  committed  by  one  man  against  an- 
other. As  to  the  decree  pronounced  against  an  individual,  the 
Tanaim  differ,  however,  as  we  may  see  from  the  following  Bo- 
raitha:  R.  Meir  used  to  say,  of  two  who  fall  sick  with  the  same 
sickness,  and  of  two  who  enter  a  tribunal  (for  judgment)  on  sim- 
ilar charges,  one  may  recover  and  one  not,  one  may  be  acquitted 
and  one  condemned.  Why  should  one  recover  and  one  not, 
and  one  be  acquitted  and  one  condemned  ?  Because  the  one 
prayed  and  was  answered,  and  one  prayed  and  was  not  an- 
swered. Why  should  one  be  answered  and  the  other  not  ?  The 
one  prayed  devoutly  and  was  answered,  the  other  did  not  pray 


**NEW   YEAR."  31 

devoutly  and  therefore  was  not  answered ;  but  R.  Elazar  said  it 
was  not  because  of  prayer,  but  because  the  one  prayed  before, 
and  the  other  after  the  decree  was  pronounced.  R.  Itz'hak 
said :  Prayer  is  helpful  for  man  before  or  after  the  decree  has 
been  pronounced.  Is  it  then  so  that  the  (evil)  decree  pro- 
nounced against  a  congregation  is  averted  (through  the  influence 
of  prayer)?  Does  not  one  scriptural  verse  [Jer.  iv.  14]  say: 
"  Wash  thine  heart  from  wickedness,"  and  another  states  [ibid, 
ii.  22]:  "  For  though  thou  wash  thee  with  nitre,  and  take  thee 
much  soap,  yet  would  the  stain  of  thine  iniquity  remain  before 
me."  Shall  we  not  say  in  the  one  case  it  means  before,  and  in 
the  other  after  the  sentence  has  been  pronounced  ?  Nay,  both 
refer  (to  a  time)  after  the  decree  has  been  pronounced  and  there 
is  no  contradiction,  for  in  one  case  it  refers  to  a  decree  issued 
with  an  oath,  and  in  the  other  to  a  decree  pronounced  without 
an  oath,  as  R.  Samuel  b.  Ami  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Jonathan : 
Whence  do  we  know  that  a  decree,  pronounced  with  an  oath, 
cannot  be  averted  ?  From  the  passage  [I  Sam.  iii.  14]:  "  There- 
fore I  have  sworn  unto  the  house  of  Eli,  that  the  iniquity  of 
Eli's  house  shall  not  be  purged  with  sacrifice  nor  meat-offering 
forever."  Rabha,  however,  said:  Even  in  such  a  case  it  is  only 
through  sacrifices  that  sin  cannot  be  purged,  but  by  (the  study 
of)  the  Law  it  may  be ;  and  Abayi  said  :  With  sacrifice  and  offer- 
ing it  cannot  be  purged,  but  by  (the  study  of)  the  Law,  and  by 
active  benevolence  it  can.  (Abayi  based  this  opinion  on  his 
own  experience,  for)  he  and  (his  master)  Rabba  were  both  de- 
scendants of  the  house  of  Eli;  Rabba,  who  only  studied  the 
Law,  lived  forty  years,  but  Abayi,  who  both  studied  the  Torah 
and  performed  acts  of  benevolence,  lived  sixty  years.  The 
rabbis  tell  us  also :  There  was  a  certain  family  in  Jerusalem 
whose  members  died  at  eighteen  years  of  age.  They  came  and 
informed  R.  Johanan  ben  Zakkai  of  their  trouble.  Said  he: 
"  Perhaps  you  are  descendants  of  Eli,  of  whom  it  is  said,  '  all 
the  increase  of  thy  house  shall  die  in  the  flower  of  their  age 
[I  Sam.  ii.  33];  "  Go,  then,  study  the  Law,  and  live."  They 
went  and  studied,  and  they  lived,  and  they  called  that  family 
R,  Johanan's  after  his  name.  R.  Samuel  ben  Inya  says  in  the 
name  of  Rabh:  Whence  do  we  know  that  if  the  decree  against 
a  community  is  even  confirmed,  it  may  nevertheless  be  averted  ? 
From  [Deut.  iv.  7]  where  it  is  written:  "  As  the  Lord,  our  God, 
in  all  things  that  we  call  upon  him  for ;  "  (but  how  can  you  har- 
monize that  with  the  passage)  [Isa.  Iv.  6]:  "  Seek  ye  the  Lord 


32  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

while  he  may  be  found  "  ?  The  latter  passage  refers  to  an  indi- 
vidual, the  former  to  a  community.  When  is  that  time  that 
He  will  be  found  even  by  an  individual  ?  Answered  Rabba  bar 
Abbahu:  "  During  the  ten  days,  from  New  Year's  Day  till  the 
Day  of  Atonement." 

' '  On  New  Years  Day  all  the  inhabitants  of  the  world  pass 
before  him,  Kibhne  Maron  {like  sheep).' '  What  does  the  Mishna 
mean  by  these  last  two  words?  "Like  sheep,"  as  they  are 
translated  in  Aramaic,  but  Resh  Lakish  says  they  mean  "  as  the 
steps  of  the  Temple"  {i.e.,  narrow,  so  that  people  ascended 
them  one  by  one).  R.  Jehudah,  however,  said  in  the  name  of 
Samuel:  (They  mean)  "  like  the  armies  of  the  house  of  David  " 
(which  were  numbered  one  by  one).  Said  Rabba  bar  Bar  Hana 
in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan:  "  Under  any  circumstances  they 
are  mustered  at  a  glance.  And  R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak  said: 
Thus  also  we  understand  the  words  of  our  Mishna:  "  He  that 
fashioned  all  their  hearts  alike"  [Psalms,  xxxiii.  15],  i.e.,  the 
Creator,  sees  all  their  hearts  (at  a  glance)  and  (at  once)  under- 
stands all  their  works. 

MISHNA:  Messengers  were  sent  out*  for  the  following  six 
months:  for  Nissan,  on  account  of  the  Passover;  for  Abh,  on 
account  of  the  fast;  for  Elul,  on  account  of  the  New  Year;  for 
Tishri,  on  account  of  appointing  the  order  of  the  (remaining) 
festivals ;t  for  Kislev,  on  account  of  the  Feast  of  Dedication; 
for  Adar,  on  account  of  the  Feast  of  Passover;  also  for  lyar, 
when  the  Temple  was  in  existence,  on  account  of  the  minor  (or 
second)  Passover.:}: 

GEMARA:  Why  were  they  not  also  sent  out  for  Tamuz 
and  Tebheth  (in  which  months  there  are  also  fasts)  ?  Did  not 
R.  Hana  bar  Bizna  say  in  the  name  of  R.  Simeon  the  pious: 
What  is  the  meaning  of  the  passage  [Zach.  viii.  19]:  "Thus 
saith  the  Lord  of  hosts;  the  fast  of  the  fourth,  and  the  fast  of 
the  fifth,  and  the  fast  of  the  seventh,  and  the  fast  of  the  tenth 
shall  become  in  the  house  of  Judah  joy  and  gladness,"  etc., 
that  they  are  called  fasts,  and  also  days  of  joy  and  gladness  ? 
Are  we  not  to  understand  that  only  in  the  time  of  peace  (cessa- 
tion of  persecution)  they  shall  be  for  joy  and  gladness,  but  in 
the  time  when  there  was  not  peace  they  shall  be  fasts  ?     Said 

*  See  Slekalim  L  i. 

t  e.ji.  Tabernacles.  This  was  necessary  since  the  Beth  Din  might  have  made 
the  month  intercalar}'. 

X  Vide,  Numb.  ix.  lo,  ii. 


"NEW   YEAR."  33 

R.  Papa :  It  means  this:  When  there  was  peace,  these  days  should 
be  for  joy  and  gladness;  in  the  time  of  persecution  they  shall 
be  fasts;  in  times  when  there  are  neither  persecution  nor  peace 
people  may  fast  or  not,  as  they  see  fit.  If  that  is  so,  why  then 
(should  messengers  have  been  sent  out)  on  account  of  the  fast 
of  Abh  ?  Said  R.  Papa:  The  fast  (ninth  day)  of  Abh  is  differ- 
ent, since  many  misfortunes  occurred  on  that  day,  as  the  master 
said:  "  On  the  ninth  of  Abh,  the  first  and  second  Temples  were 
destroyed,  Bether  was  captured,  and  the  city  of  Jerusalem  was 
razed  to  the  ground." 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  R.  Simeon  said:  There  are 
four  matters  that  R.  Aqiba  expounded,  but  which  I  interpret 
differently;  "  the  fast  of  the  fourth  "  means  the  ninth  of  Tamuz, 
on  which  the  city  was  broken  in,  as  it  is  written  [Jer.  lii.  6,  7] : 
"  In  the  fourth,  in  the  ninth  day  of  the  month  .  .  .  the  city 
was  broken  in,"  What  does  he  mean  by  fourth  ?  The  fourth 
of  the  months.  "  The  fast  of  the  fifth,"  means  the  ninth  of 
Abh,  on  which  the  Temple  of  our  Lord  was  burnt ;  and  what 
does  he  mean  by  calling  it  fifth  ?  The  fifth  of  the  months. 
"  The  fast  of  the  seventh  "  means  the  third  of  Tishri,  the  day 
on  which  Gedaliah,  the  son  of  Ahikam,  was  slain  (and  we  fast), 
because  the  death  of  the  righteous  is  equal  to  the  loss  of  the 
house  of  our  Lord.  And  what  does  he  mean  by  calling  it  the 
seventh  ?  The  seventh  of  the  months.  "  The  fast  of  the 
tenth,"  means  the  tenth  of  Tebheth,  the  day  on  which  the  king 
of  Babylon  set  himself  against  Jerusalem,  as  it  is  written  [Ezek. 
xxiv.  I,  2]:  "Again  in  the  ninth  year,  in  the  tenth  month,  in 
the  tenth  day  of  the  month  the  word  of  the  Lord  came  unto  me 
saying,  Son  of  man,  write  thee  the  name  of  the  day,  even  of  this 
same  day;  the  king  of  Babylon  set  himself  against  Jerusalem." 
And  what  does  he  mean  by  calling  it  the  tenth  ?  The  tenth  of 
the  months,  and  actually  this  last  event  should  have  been  placed 
first  (since  it  occurred  first).  And  why  is  it  placed  here  last  in 
order  ?  To  mention  the  months  in  their  regular  order.  Said 
R.  Simeon:  I,  however,  do  not  think  so,  but  thus:  "  The  fast 
of  the  tenth"  means  the  fifth  of  Tebheth,  on  which  day  the 
news  came  to  the  exiles  that  the  city  was  smitten,  as  it  is  writ- 
ten [Ezek.  xxxiii.  21]:  "And  it  came  to  pass  in  the  twelfth 
year  of  our  captivity,  in  the  tenth  (month),  in  the  fifth  day  of 
the  month,  that  one  that  had  escaped  out  of  Jerusalem  came  to 
me,  saying.  The  city  is  smitten,"  and  they  held  the  day  on 
which  they  received  the  news  equal  to  the  day  (on  which  the 
3 


34  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Temple)  was  burnt.  And  it  seems  to  me  that  my  opinion  ie 
more  satisfactory,  for  I  speak  of  the  first,  first,  and  of  the  last, 
last;  while  he  speaks  of  the  last,  first,  and  of  the  first,  last;  he 
mentions  them  in  the  order  of  the  months,  while  I  mention 
them  in  the  order  in  which  the  calamities  occurred. 

It  was  taught:  Rabh  and  R.  Hanina  say:  The  Rolls  of 
Fasts  (which  contained  the  names  of  minor  holidays  on  which 
it  was  prohibited  to  fast)  is  annulled,  but  R.  Johanan  and  R. 
Jehoshua  ben  Levi  say:  "  It  is  not."  When  Rabh  and  R. 
Hanina  say  that  it  is  annulled  they  mean :  In  the  time  of  peace 
the  (fast)  days  are  days  of  joy  and  gladness,  but  in  the  time  of 
persecution  they  are  fast  days,  and  so  also  with  other  (days  men- 
tioned in  the  Rolls  of  Fasts);  and  when  R.  Johanan  and  R. 
Jehoshua  ben  Levi  say  it  is  not  annulled  (they  mean)  that  those 
(four  fasts  mentioned  in  Zachariah)  the  Bible  makes  dependent 
on  the  rebuilding  of  the  Temple ;  but  those  (mentioned  in  the 
Rolls  of  Fasts)  remain  as  they  are  appointed. 

R.  Tobi  b.  Matana  objected:  In  the  Rolls  of  Fasts  it  is  said 
that  on  the  twenty-eighth  of  (Adar),  the  good  news  came  to  the 
Jews  that  they  need  no  longer  abstain  from  studying  the  Law, 
for  the  king  (of  Syria  had  earlier)  issued  a  decree,  forbidding 
them  to  study  the  Law,  or  to  circumcise  their  sons,  and  com- 
pelling them  to  desecrate  their  Sabbath.  What  did  Jehudah 
b.  Shamua  and  his  friends  do  ?  They  went  and  took  counsel  of 
a  certain  matron,  whose  house  the  celebrated  people  of  the  city 
frequented.  Said  she  to  them,  "  Go  and  cry  aloud  at  night." 
They  did  as  she  advised  and  cried  aloud,  "  Oh,  heavens!  Are 
we  not  all  brethren  ?  Are  we  not  all  the  children  of  one  Father  ? 
Are  we  not  all  the  children  of  one  mother  ?  Why  should  we  be 
treated  differently  from  other  nations,  and  from  all  people  who 
speak  other  languages  inasmuch  as  ye  issue  such  cruel  edicts 
against  us?"  The  decrees  were  annulled,  and  the  day  (on 
which  this  happened)  they  appointed  a  holiday.  Now  if  it  be 
true  that  the  Rolls  of  Fasts  has  been  annulled  {i.e.,  the  former 
[feasts]  have  been  all  abrogated),  may  then  new  ones  be  added  ? 
There  is  a  difiference  of  opinion  among  Tanaim  on  this  question, 
as  we  have  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha:  The  days  recorded 
in  the  Rolls  of  Fasts,  whether  during  or  after  the  existence  of 
the  Temple,  are  not  permitted  (to  be  kept  as  fasts),  so  said  R. 
Meir;  R.  Jose,  however,  said,  so  long  as  the  Temple  stood  it 
was  not  permissible  (to  fast  on  them)  because  they  were  days  of 
joy,  but  since  the  Temple  fell  it  is  allowed  because  they  are 


"NEW   YEAR."  35 

days  of  mourning.  One  rule  says  that  they  are  abrogated,  but 
another  rule  says  they  are  not  abrogated.  There  is  a  question 
here  caused  by  one  rule  contradicting  the  othei.  In  the  latter 
case  it  refers  to  the  Feasts  of  Dedication  and  Esther  (which  are 
never  to  be  abrogated),  and  in  the  former  case  to  all  other 
(minor  feast)  days. 

"  For  Elul  on  account  of  New  Years  Day,  and  for  Tishri  on 
account  of  appointing  the  order  of  the  [remaining)  festivals.'' 
Since  (the  messengers)  were  sent  out  on  account  of  Elul,  why 
need  they  go  again  on  account  of  Tishri  ?  Shall  we  say  because 
(the  Beth  Din)  desired  to  proclaim  Elul  an  intercalary  month  ? 
(That  cannot  be)  for  did  not  R.  Hanina  bar  Kahana  say  in  the 
name  of  Rabh :  Since  the  time  of  Ezra  we  have  not  discovered 
that  Elul  was  an  intercalary  month  ?  We  have  not  discovered 
it,  because  it  was  not  necessary  (to  make  it  so).  But  if  it  should 
be  necessary,  shall  we  make  it  an  intercalary  month?  This  avouM 
disturb  the  position  of  New  Year's  Day.  It  is  better  that  the 
position  of  New  Year's  Day  alone  should  be  disturbed  than  that 
all  the  holidays  should  be  disarranged.  And  it  seems  to  be  so, 
for  the  Mishna  says  that  the  messengers  were  sent  for  Tishri  on 
account  of  appointing  the  order  of  the  festivals. 

^'  And  for  Kislev  on  account  of  Hanuka,  and,  for  Adar  on 
account  of  the  Feast  of  Esther.''  But  the  Mishna  does  not  say 
if  it  be  a  leap  year,  that  the  messengers  were  sent  out  in  the 
second  Adar  on  account  of  Purim.  From  this  we  learn  that  the 
Mishna  is  not  in  accordance  with  Rabbi  of  the  following  Bo- 
raitha:  Rabbi  says:  "  In  a  leap  year  messengers  are  sent  out 
also  in  the  second  Adar  on  account  of  the  Feast  of  Esther." 

When  Ula  came  (from  Palestine)  he  said :  They  have  made 
Elul  an  intercalary  month,  and  he  also  said:  "  Do  my  Babylo- 
nian comrades  know  the  benefit  we  have  gained  through  it  ? " 
Because  of  what  is  this  a  benefit  ?  "  Because  of  herbs,"  *  said 
Ula.  R.  A'ha  bar  Hanina,  however,  said:  "  Because  of  dead 
bodies. "t      What  difference  is    there  between    them?      They 

*  By  adding  an  intercalary  day  to  Elul,  the  holiday  (New  Year  or  Atonement 
Day)  was  prevented  from  falling  on  Friday  or  Sunday,  the  intention  being  to  separate 
the  holiday  by  an  intervening  day  from  the  Sabbath.  Thus,  herbs  that  were  to  be 
eaten  fresh,  and  other  foods,  would  not  spoil,  as  they  might,  if  kept  from  Thursday 
till  after  the  Sabbath, 

f  A  similar  practice  was  followed  with  regard  to  the  keeping  of  a  dead  body  over 
the  Day  of  Atonement  and  a  Sabbath.  Since  it  was  impossible  to  keep  the  dead 
body  two  days,  the  Sabbath  and  the  Atonement  Day  were  separated  by  the  means  of 
the  intercalated  day. 


36 


THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 


differ  concerning  a  holiday  that  falls  immediately  before  or  after 
the  Sabbath  (on  the  sixth  or  first  day  of  the  week).  According 
to  the  one  who  says  "  because  of  herbs  "  wemay  add  an  inter- 
calary day,  but  (it  is  not  necessary)  according  to  him  who  says 
"  because  of  dead  bodies,"  for  we  can  employ  non-Jews  (to  bury 
the  dead  for  us  on  the  holidays).  If  this  is  the  case,  why  is  this 
a  benefit  only  for  us  (in  Babylon);  is  it  not  also  to  the  advan- 
tage of  them  (in  Palestine)  ?  Our  climate  is  very  hot,  but  theirs 
is  not. 

Is  this  really  so  ?  Did  not  Rabba  bar  Samuel  teach :  One 
might  suppose  that  as  we  intercalate  the  year  when  necessary,  so 
we  intercalate  the  month  when  necessary  ?  Therefore  it  is  writ- 
ten [Ex.  xii.  2] :  "  This  month  shall  be  unto  you  the  first  of  the 
months,"  which  means  as  soon  as  you  see  (the  new  moon)  as  on 
this  occasion,  you  must  consecrate  the  month  (whether  or  not  it 
is  necessary  to  intercalate  it).  (How,  then,  could  they  inter- 
calate Elul,  which  had  always  only  twenty-nine  days  ?)  To 
intercalate  it  (when  necessary)  was  permitted,  but  to  consecrate 
it  was  not  permitted,  and  Rabba's  words  should  read :  One 
might  suppose  that  as  it  is  permitted  to  intercalate  the  year  and 
the  month  when  necessary,  so  we  may  consecrate  the  month  when 
necessary.  Therefore  it  is  written  [Ex.  xii.  2]:  "This  month 
shall  be  unto  you,"  etc.,  which  means  only  when  the  moon  is 
seen  as  on  this  occasion,  may  you  consecrate  it. 

Samuel  said :  "  I  can  arrange  the  calendar  for  the  whole  cap- 
tivity." Abba,  the  father  of  R.  Simlai,  said  to  him:  "Does 
the  master  know  that  which  a  certain  Boraitha  teaches  concern- 
ing the  secret  of  the  intercalary  day;  viz.,  whether  the  new 
moon  appears  before  or  after  midday  ? "  Answered  he,  "  No." 
"  Then,  master,"  said  he,  "  if  thou  dost  not  know  this,  there 
may  be  other  things  which  thou  dost  not  know."  When  R. 
Zera  went  (to  Palestine)  he  sent  back  word  to  his  comrade  (say- 
ing) :  The  evening  and  the  morning  (following)  must  both  be- 
long to  the  month  {i.e.,  when  the  old  moon  has  still  been  seen 
after  dark  on  the  twenty-ninth  day  of  the  month,  the  thirtieth 
evening  and  following  day  belong  to  the  closing  month).  And 
this  is  what  Abba,  the  father  of  R.  Simlai,  meant :  We  calculate 
only  the  beginning  of  the  new  moon;  if  it  began  before  midday, 
it  is  certain  that  it  was  seen  close  upon  the  setting  of  the  sun, 
but  if  it  did  not  begin  before  midday,  it  is  certain  that  it  did  not 
appear  close  upon  the  setting  of  the  sun.  What  difference  does 
it  make  (in  practice)?   Answered  R.  Ashi,  '*  to  refute  witnesses." 


"NEW    YEAR."  37 

R.  Zera  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Na'hman,  in  every  case  of 
doubt  (about  the  holidays),  we  post-date,  but  never  ante-date.* 
Does  this  mean  to  say  that  (in  a  case  of  doubt  concerning  the 
exact  day  on  which  Tabernacles  begins)  we  observe  the  fifteenth 
and  sixteenth,  but  not  the  fourteenth.  Let  us  keep  the  four- 
teenth also.  Perhaps  Abh  and  Elul  have  each  only  twenty-nine 
days  ?  Nay,  if  two  consecutive  months  should  each  have 
twenty-nine  days,  this  would  be  announced. 

Levi  went  to  Babylon  on  the  eleventh  of  Tishri.  Said  he: 
"  Sweet  is  the  food  of  Babylon  on  the  great  Day  (of  Atonement 
now  being  held)  in  Palestine."  They  said  to  him,  "  Go  and 
testify."  Answered  he,  "  I  have  not  heard  from  the  Beth  Din 
the  words,  '  It  is  consecrated  '  (and  therefore  I  cannot  testify)." 

R.  Johanan  proclaimed:  In  everyplace  that  the  messengers 
sent  in  Nissan  reached,  but  that  the  messengers  sent  in  Tishri 
cannot  reach,  they  must  observe  two  days  for  the  holidays ;  and 
they  make  this  restriction  for  Nissan  lest  people  would  do  in 
Tishri  as  in  Nissan. f  Rabha  used  to  fast  two  days  for  the  Day 
of  Atonement.:}:  Once  it  happened  that  he  was  right  (because 
the  Day  of  Atonement  fell  one  day  later  in  Palestine  than  in 
Babylon).  R,  Na'hman  was  once  fasting  on  the  Day  of  Atone- 
ment, and  in  the  evening  a  certain  man  came  and  said  to  him, 
"  To-morrow  will  be  the  Day  of  Atonement  in  Palestine."  He 
angrily  quoted,  "  Swift  were  our  persecutors  "  [Lam.  iv.  19]. 

R.  Na'hman  said  to  certain  sailors,  "  Ye  who  do  not  know 
the  calendar  take  notice  that  when  the  moon  still  shines  at  dawn 
(it  is  full  moon,  and  if  it  happens  to  be  Nissan)  destroy  your 
leaven  bread  (for  it  is  then  the  fourteenth  day)." 

*  i.e.  if  there  be  a  doubt  about  which  day  is  the  Passover  or  the  feast  of  Taber- 
nacles, the  festival  should  be  kept  for  two  days  ;  not,  however,  by  ante-dating  and 
keeping  the  fourteenth  and  fifteenth  (of  Nissan  or  Tishri)  but  by  post-dating  and 
keeping  the  fifteenth  and  sixteenth  of  either  month. 

f  In  Tishri,  messengers  might  be  delayed  reaching  distant  places,  to  which  they 
were  sent  to  announce  the  date  of  the  festival  (Tabernacles),  on  account  of  New 
Year's  Day  and  the  Day  of  Atonement,  on  which  they  could  not  travel  more  than  a 
short  distance.  In  Nissan,  however,  they  could,  without  delay,  reach  those  places, 
and  having  announced  the  date  of  the  festival,  only  one  day  was  hallowed.  Fearing 
that  people  might  do,  in  regard  to  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles,  what  they  did  with 
regard  to  Passover  {i.e.,  keep  one  day,  even  when  in  doubt  about  the  date),  the  Rab- 
bis instituted  that  both  Tabernacles  and  Passover  should  have  two  days  hallowed 
instead  of  one. 

X  He  was  in  doubt  whether  the  Beth  Din  in  Palestine  had  made  Elul  intercalaiy 
or  not,  and  as  the  messengers  diu  not  arrive  until  after  the  Day  of  Atonement,  he 
fasted  two  days. 


38  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

MISHNA:  For  the  sake  of  (the  new  moon)  of  the  two 
months,  Nissan  and  Tishri,  witnesses  may  profane*  the  Sab- 
bath, because  in  these  months  the  messengers  went  to  Syria, 
and  the  order  of  the  festivals  was  arranged ;  when,  however,  the 
Templet  was  in  existence,  they  might  profane  the  Sabbath  in 
any  month,  in  order  to  offer  the  (new  moon)  sacrifice  in  its 
proper  time. 

GEMARA :  For  the  sake  of  these  two  months  and  not 
more  ?  This  would  be  a  contradiction  to  the  Mishna  above, 
which  states:  "  For  the  sake  of  six  months  messengers  were 
sent  out"  ?  Said  Abayi:  "  This  is  to  be  explained  thus:  For 
all  new  moons  the  messengers  were  sent  out  while  it  was  still 
evening,  but  for  Nissan  and  Tishri  they  were  not  sent  out  until 
they  heard  from  the  lips  of  the  Beth  Din  the  words,  '  It  (the 
new  moon  or  month)  is  consecrated.'  " 

The  rabbis  taught :  Whence  do  we  know  that  for  them  we 
may  profane  the  Sabbath  ?  From  [Lev.  xxiii.  4],  which  reads: 
"  These  are  the  feasts  of  the  Lord,  which  ye  shall  proclaim  in 
their  seasons."  Might  not  one  suppose  that  as  (witnesses)  were 
permitted  to  profane  the  Sabbath  until  the  new  moons  had  been 
consecrated,  so  were  messengers  permitted  to  profane  the  Sab- 
bath until  (the  festivals)  were  introduced  ?  This  the  Law  says : 
Therefore  it  is  written:  "  Which  ye  shall  proclaim,"  i.e.,  you 
may  profane  the  Sabbath  in  order  to  proclaim  them,  but  not  to 
introduce  them. 

When,  however,  the  Temple  was  in  existence, ' '  etc.  The  rabbis 
taught:  Formerly  they  profaned  the  Sabbath  for  all  (new 
moons),  but  after  the  destruction  of  the  Temple,  R.  Johanan  b. 
Zakkai  said  to  them:  "  Have  we  any  (new  moon)  sacrifice  to 
offer  ?  They  then  instituted  that  (witnesses)  might  profane  the 
Sabbath  only  on  account  of  Nissan  and  Tishri. 

MISHNA:  Whether  the  new  moon  had  appeared  clear  to 
all  or  not  (the  witnesses)  were  permitted  to  profane  the  Sabbath 
on  its  account.  R.  Jose  says:  If  it  appeared  clear  to  every 
one,:}:  the  Sabbath  should  not  be  profaned  (by  witnesses).  It 
once  happened  that  more  than  forty  pair  (of  witnesses)  were  on 
the  highway  (to  the  Beth  Din)  on  the  Sabbath,  when  R.  Aqiba 


*  To  travel  to  Palestine  in  order  to  inform  the  Beth  Din  might  have  necessitated 
walking  more  than  the  distance  permitted  on  the  Sabbath. 

t  The  Temple  in  Jerusalem. 

X  It  might  then  be  presumed  that  every  one  had  seen  it,  and  it  was  therefore 
unnecessary  for  any  one  to  go  to  Palestine  to  announce  it  to  the  Beth  Din. 


"NEW   YEAR."  39 

detained  them  at  Lydda.  R.  Gamaliel  then  sent  word  saying, 
"  If  thou  thus  detainest  the  people,  thou  wilt  be  the  cause  of 
their  erring  in  the  future"  {i.e.,  they  may  refuse  to  come  and 
testify). 

GEMARA:  The  rabbis  taught:  It  is  written  [Eccles.  xii. 
lo] :  Koheleth  sought  to  find  out  acceptable  words,"  which  sig- 
nifies that  Koheleth  sought  to  enforce  decrees  without  the  aid 
of  witnesses  or  warning.  A  heavenly  voice  was  heard  saying 
[Eccles.  xii.  lo]:  "  And  that  which  was  written  uprightly,  even 
words  of  truth"  (which  meant  that)  as  it  is  written  [Deut.  xx. 
15]:  "  Upon  the  evidence  of  two  witnesses,  etc.,  must  a  case 
be  established,"  so  should  words  of  truth  also  be  established  by 
two  witnesses. 

"  It  once  happened  that  more  than  forty  pair  [of  witnesses) 
were  on  the  highway  {to  Jerusalem)  and  R.  Aqiba  detained  them,'' 
etc.  We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha :  R.  Jehudah  said  :  It  would 
be  a  sin  to  say  that  R.  Aqiba  should  have  detained  them.  It 
was  Shazpar,  the  superintendent  of  Gadar,  who  detained  them, 
and  (and  when)  R.  Gamaliel  (heard  of  it,  he)  sent  and  dismissed 
him. 

MISHNA:  When  a  father  and  son  have  seen  the  new  moon, 
they  must  both  go  to  the  Beth  Din,  not  that  they  may  act 
together  as  witnesses,  but  in  order  that,  should  the  evidence  of 
either  of  them  be  invalidated,  the  other  may  join  to  give  evi- 
dence with  another  witness.  R.  Simeon  says :  Father  and  son, 
and  relatives  in  any  degree  may  be  accepted  as  competent  wit- 
nesses to  give  evidence  as  to  the  appearance  of  the  new  moon. 
R.  Jose  says :  It  once  happened  that  Tobias,  the  physician,  his 
son,  and  his  freed  slave  saw  the  new  moon  in  Jerusalem  (and 
when  they  tendered  their  evidence),  the  priests  accepted  his 
evidence  and  that  of  his  son,  but  invalidated  that  of  his  freed 
slave;  but  when  they  appeared  before  the  (Beth  Din)  they  re- 
ceived his  evidence,  and  that  of  his  freed  slave,  but  invalidated 
that  of  his  son. 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Levi:  What  is  the  reason  for  R.  Sim- 
con's  decree  ?  It  is  written  [Ex.  xii.  i]  :  "  And  the  Lord  spake 
unto  Moses  and  Aaron  saying,  This  month  shall  be  unto  you,'' 
which  means,  this  evidence  shall  be  acceptable  from  you  (although 
you  are  brothers).  And  how  do  the  rabbis  interpret  it  ?  They 
explain  it  as  follows:  This  testimony  shall  be  placed  at  your 
disposal  {i.e.,  the  Beth  Din's).  Says  Mar  Uqba  in  the  name  of 
Samuel,  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Simeon. 


^o  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

MISHNA:  The  following  are  considered  incompetent  to  be 
witnesses:  gamblers  with  dice,  usurers,  pigeon  breeders,*  those 
who  deal  with  the  produce  of  the  sabbatic  year,  and  slaves. 
This  is  the  rule:  All  evidence  that  cannot  be  received  from  a 
woman  cannot  be  received  from  any  of  the  above.  One  who 
has  seen  the  new  moon,  but  is  unable  to  go  (to  give  evidence), 
must  be  brought  (if  unable  to  walk)  mounted  on  an  ass,  or  even 
in  a  bed.f  Persons  afraid  of  an  attack  by  robbers  may  take 
sticks  with  them ;  f  and  if  they  have  a  long  way  to  go,  it  will  be 
lawful  for  them  to  provide  themselves  with  and  carry  their  food.f 
Whenever  (witnesses)  must  be  on  the  road  a  day  and  a  night,  it 
will  be  lawful  to  violate  the  Sabbath  to  travel  thereon,  to  give 
their  evidence  as  to  the  appearance  of  the  moon.  For  thus  it 
is  written  [Lev.  xxiii.  4] :  "  These  are  the  feasts  of  the  Lord, 
the  holy  convocations,  which  ye  shall  proclaim  in  their  appointed 
seasons. ' ' 


*  Those  who  breed  and  train  pigeons  for  racing. 

f  Even  on  the  Sabbath,  when  under  ordinary  circumstances  this  might  not  be 
done. 


CHAPTER   II. 

ORDINANCES    ABOUT    THE    WITNESSES    CONCERNING    THE    NEW    MOON 
THE    HOISTING    OF    THE    FLAGS     AND    HOW    IT    WAS   CONSECRATED 
BY    THE    BETH    DIN. 

MISHNA:  If  the  witness  was  unknown  another  was  sent 
with  him  to  testify  to  his  character.  In  former  times  they 
would  receive  evidence  (about  the  appearance  of  the  moon)  from 
any  one;  but  when  the  Boethusians  commenced  to  corrupt  the 
witnesses  the  rule  was  made,  that  evidence  would  only  be  re- 
ceived from  those  who  were  known  (to  be  reputable). 

GEMARA:  What  is  meant  by  "another"  (in  the  above 
Mishna)  ?  Another  pair  (of  witnesses).  It  seems  also  to  be  so 
from  the  statement  of  the  Mishna.  "  If  the  witness  was  un- 
known? Shall  we  assume  that  it  means  one  (witness)  ?  Surely 
the  evidence  of  one  was  not  received,  for  this  transaction  was 
called  "judgment"  [Psalms,  Ixxxi.]  (and  two  witnesses  are 
necessary)?  What,  then,  does  "the  witness "  mean  ?  That 
pair;  so  also  here,  "another"  means  another  pair.  Is,  then, 
the  evidence  of  one  not  accepted  ?  Have  we  not  learned  in  a 
Boraitha:  It  once  happened  that  R.  Neherai  went  to  Usha  on 
the  Sabbath  to  testify  (to  the  character)  of  one  witness  ?  He 
knew  that  there  was  one  witness  in  Usha,  and  he  went  to  add 
his  evidence  (and  thus  make  two  witnesses).  If  that  is  so, 
what  does  it  tell  us  ?  One  might  suppose  that,  as  there  was 
a  doubt  (that  he  might  not  meet  the  other  witness),  he  ought 
not  to  have  profaned  the  Sabbath  (by  travelling  to  Usha  as  a 
single  witness);  therefore  he  comes  to  teach  us  (that  even  in 
such  a  case  of  doubt  the  Sabbath  might  be  violated). 

When  Ula  came  (to  Babylon,  from  Palestine),  he  said :  They 
have  already  consecrated  the  new  moon  in  Palestine.  Said  R. 
Kahana:  (In  such  a  case)  not  only  Ula,  who  is  a  great  man,  is 
to  be  believed,  but  even  an  ordinary  man.  Why  so  ?  Because 
men  will  not  lie  about  a  matter  that  will  become  known  to  every 
one. 

' '  In  former  times  they  would  receive  evidence  from  any  one, 
etc.     The  rabbis  taught:  How  did  the  Boethusians  corrupt  the 

41 


42  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

witnesses  ?  They  once  sought  to  deceive  the  sages,  and  they 
bribed,  with  four  hundred  zuz  (silver  coins),  two  men,  one 
belonging  to  their  party  and  one  to  ours.  The  former  gave  his 
evidence  and  went  out,  to  the  latter  they  (the  Beth  Din)  said, 
"  Tell  us  what  was  the  appearance  of  the  moon  ?"  "I  went 
up,"  replied  he,  "  to  Maale  Adumim,*  and  I  saw  it  crouching 
between  two  rocks.  Its  head  was  like  a  calf,  its  ears  like  a 
goat,  its  horns  like  a  stag,  and  its  tail  was  lying  across  its  thigh. 
I  gazed  upon  it  and  shuddered,  and  fell  backwards;  and  if  you 
do  not  believe  me,  behold,  here  I  have  two  hundred  zuz  bound 
up  in  my  cloth,"  "  Who  induced  you  to  do  this  ?  "  they  asked. 
"  I  heard,"  he  replied,  "  that  the  Boethusians  wished  to  deceive 
the  sages;  so  I  said  to  myself,  I  will  go  and  inform  them,  lest 
some  unworthy  person  may  (accept  their  bribe),  and  come  and 
deceive  the  sages."  Then  said  the  sages:  "  The  two  hundred 
zuz  may  be  retained  by  you  as  a  reward,  and  he  who  bribed  you 
shall  be  taken  to  the  whipping-post  (and  be  punished)."  Then 
and  there  they  ordained  that  testimony  should  be  received  only 
from  those  who  were  known  (to  be  of  good  character). 

MISHNA:  Formerly  bonfires  were  lighted  (to  announce  the 
appearance  of  the  new  moon);  but  when  the  Cutheansf  prac- 
tised their  deceit,  it  was  ordained  that  messengers  should  be 
sent  out.  How  were  these  bonfires  lighted  ?  They  brought 
long  staves  of  cedar  wood,  canes,  and  branches  of  the  olive  tree, 
and  bundles  of  tow  which  were  tied  on  top  of  them  with  twine; 
with  these  they  went  to  the  top  of  a  mountain,  and  lighted 
them,  and  kept  waving  them  to  and  fro,  upward  and  downward, 
till  they  could  perceive  the  same  repeated  by  another  person  on 
the  next  mountain,  and  thus,  on  the  third  mountain,  etc. 
Whence  did  these  bonfires  commence  ?  From  the  Mount  of 
Olives  to  Sartabha,  from  Sartabha  to  Grophinah,  from  Grophi- 
nah  to  Hoveran,  from  Hoveran  to  Beth  Baltin ;  they  did  not 
cease  waving  the  burning  torches  at  Beth  Baltin,  to  and  fro, 
upwatd  and  downward,  until  the  whole  country  of  the  captivity 
appeared  like  a  blazing  fire. 

GEMARA:  The  rabbis  taught:  Bonfires  were  only  lighted 
to  announce  the  new  moon  that  appeared  and  was  consecrated 
at  the  proper  time  (after  twenty-nine  days).  And  when  were 
they  lighted  ?     On  the  evening  of  the  thirtieth  day.     Does  this 


*  The  name  of  a  place  between  Jerusalem  and  Jericho. 
t  Samaritans. 


"NEW    YEAR." 


43 


mean  to  say  that  for  a  month  of  twenty-nine  days  the  bonfires 
ivere  lighted,  but  twt  for  a  month  of  thirty  days  ?  It  should 
have  been  done  for  a  month  of  thirty  days,  and  not  at  all  for 
a  month  of  twenty-nine  days.  Said  Abayi:  That  would  cause 
the  people  a  loss  of  work  for  two  days  (because  they  would  wait 
to  see  if  the  bonfires  would  be  lit  or  not  and  thus  lose  a  second 
day).  * 

"  How  were  these  bonfires  lighted?  They  brought  long  staves 
of  cedar  wood,"  etc.  R.  Jehudah  says;  There  are  four  kinds  of 
cedars :  the  common  cedar,  the  Qctros,  the  olive  tree,  and  the 
cypress.  Qctros  says  Rabh  is  (in  Aramaic)  Adara  or  a  species 
of  cedar.  Every  cedar,  said  R.  Johanan,  that  was  carried  away 
from  Jerusalem,  God  will  in  future  times  restore,  as  it  is  written 
[Isa.  xli.  19]:  "I  will  plant  in  the  wilderness  the  cedar  tree," 
and  by  "  wilderness  "  He  means  Jerusalem,  as  it  is  written  [Isa. 
Ixiv.  10]:  "  Zion  is  (become)  a  wilderness."  R.  Johanan  says 
again:  Who  studies  the  law,  and  teaches  it  in  a  place  where 
there  is  no  other  scholar,  is  equal  to  a  myrtle  in  the  desert, 
which  is  very  dear.  The  same  says  again  :  "  Woe  to  the 
Romans,  for  whom  there  will  be  no  substitution,"  as  it  is  writ- 
ten [Isa.  Ix.  17]:  "  Instead  of  the  copper,  I  will  bring  gold,  and 
for  iron  I  will  bring  silver,  and  for  wood,  copper,  and  for  stones, 
iron."  But  what  can  He  bring  for  R  Aqiba  and  his  comrades 
(who  were  destroyed  by  Rome)  ?  Of  them  it  is  written  [Joel, 
iv.  21]:  "  I  will  avenge  (but  for)  their  (Aqiba's  and  his  com- 
rades') blood  I  have  not  yet  avenged." 

"And  whence  did  these  bonfires  commence?'*  From  Beth 
Baltin.  What  is  Beth  Baltin  ?  "  Biram,"  answered  Rabh. 
What  (does  the  Mishna)  mean  by  the  captivity  ?  Said  R. 
Joseph,  "  Pumbeditha."  And  how  was  it  that  the  whole  coun- 
try looked  like  a  blazing  fire  ?  We  learn  that  each  Israelite  took 
a  torch  in  his  hand  and  ascended  to  the  roof  of  his  house. 

MISHNA:  There  was  a  large  court  in  Jerusalem  called  Beth 

*  The  thirtieth  day  from  the  last  New  Moon  was  always  New  Moon,  but  in 
intercalary  months  the  thirty-first  day  was  also  New  Moon  (second  day).  In  the  latter 
case  the  thirtieth  day  (first  day  of  New  Moon)  belonged  to  the  passing  month,  and 
the  second  day  of  New  Moon  was  the  first  day  of  the  new  month.  Bonfires  were 
always  lighted  on  the  night  of  the  thirtieth  day,  i.e.,  on  the  night  after  New  Moon  ; 
and  if  no  bonfires  were  lighted  then  there  were  two  days  New  Moon.  In  the  case  of 
the  month  of  Elul  they  would,  after  twenty-nine  days,  observe  New  Year's  Day. 
Now,  if  that  month  happened  to  be  intercalary  {i.e.,  have  thirty  days)  and  bonfires 
would  have  been  lighted,  the  next  day  would  have  had  to  be  observed  as  New  Year's 
Day  again,  and  the  people  would  consequently  have  lost  a  second  day. — Rasht. 


44  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Ya'azeq,  where  all  the  witnesses  met,  and  where  they  were  ex- 
amined by  the  Beth  Din.  Great  feasts  were  made  there  for  (the 
witnesses)  in  order  to  induce  them  to  come  frequently.  At  first 
they  did  not  stir  from  there  all  day  (on  the  Sabbath),"*  till  R. 
Gamaliel,  the  elder,  ordained  that  they  might  go  two  thousand 
ells  on  every  side;  and  not  only  these  (witnesses)  but  also  a 
midwife,  going  to  perform  her  professional  duties,  and  those 
who  go  to  assist  others  in  case  of  conflagration,  or  against  an 
attack  of  robbers,  or  in  case  of  flood,  or  (of  rescuing  people) 
from  the  ruins  (of  a  fallen  building)  are  considered  (for  the  time 
being)  as  inhabitants  of  that  place,  and  may  go  (thence  on  the 
Sabbath)  two  thousand  ells  on  every  side.  How  were  the  wit- 
nesses examined  ?  The  first  pair  were  examined  first.  The 
elder  was  introduced  first,  and  they  said  to  him :  Tell  us  in  what 
form  thou  sawest  the  moon ;  was  it  before  or  behind  the  sun  ? 
Was  it  to  the  north  or  the  south  (of  the  sun)  ?  What  was  its 
elevation  on  the  horizon  ?  Towards  which  side  was  its  inclina- 
tion ?  What  was  the  width  of  its  disk  ?  If  he  answered  before 
the  sun,  his  evidence  was  worthless.  After  this  they  introduced 
the  younger  (witness)  and  he  was  examined ;  if  their  testimony 
was  found  to  agree,  it  was  accepted  as  valid ;  the  remaining 
pairs  (of  witnesses)  were  asked  leading  questions,  not  because 
their  testimony  was  necessary,  but  only  to  prevent  them  depart- 
ing, disappointed,  and  to  induce  them  to  come  again  often. 

GEMARA:  Do  not  the  questions  (asked  by  the  Mishna), 
"  was  it  before  or  behind  the  sun  ? "  and  "  was  it  to  the  north 
or  to  the  south?"  mean  the  same  thing?  Answered  Abayi  : 
(The  Mishna  asks)  whether  the  concave  of  the  crescent  was 
before  or  behind  the  sun,  and  if  (the  witness  said)  it  was  before 
the  sun,  his  evidence  was  worthless,  for  R.  Johanan  says:  What 
is  the  meaning  of  the  passage  [Job,  xxv.  2] :  "  Dominion  and  fear 
are  with  him ;  he  maketh  peace  in  his  high  places  ? "  It  means 
that  the  sun  never  faces  the  concave  of  the  crescent  or  the  con- 
cave of  a  rainbow. 

What  was  its  elevatio?t  on  the  horizon  ?  Towards  which 
side  was  its  inclination  ?  "  In  one  Boraitha  we  have  learned  :  If 
(the  witness)  said  "  towards  the  north,"  his  evidence  was  valid, 
but  if  he  said,  "  towards  the  south,"  it  was  worthless ;  in  another 
Boraitha  we  have  learned  the  reverse.     It  presents  no  difficulty; 


•  For  if  they  had  already  traveled  two  thousand  ells,  they  were  prohibited  from 
journeying  more  than  four  cubits  more. 


''NEW    YEAR."  45 

in  the  latter  case  it  speaks  of  the  summer,  while  in  the  former 
it  refers  to  the  winter. 

The  rabbis  taught:  If  one  (witness)  said  its  elevation  ap- 
peared about  as  high  as  two  ox-goads  and  another  said  about  as 
high  as  three,  their  testimony  was  invalid,  but  either  might  be 
taken  in  conjunction  with  a  subsequent  witness  (who  offered 
similar  testimony).  The  rabbis  taught  (If  the  witnesses  say): 
"  We  have  seen  the  reflection  (of  the  moon)  in  the  water,  or 
through  a  metal  mirror,  or  in  the  clouds,"  their  testimony  is 
not  to  be  accepted;  or  (if  they  say  we  have  seen)  "  half  of  it  in 
the  water,  and  half  of  it  in  the  heavens,  or  half  of  it  in  the 
clouds,"  their  evidence  carries  no  weight.  Must  they  then  see 
the  new  moon  again  (before  their  testimony  can  be  accepted)  ? 
Said  Abayi:  "  By  this  is  meant  that  if  the  witnesses  testify  that 
they  saw  the  moon  accidentally,  and  they  then  returned  pur- 
posely and  looked  for  it,  but  they  saw  it  not,  their  evidence  is 
worthless."  Why  so  ?  Because  one  might  say  they  saw  a 
patch  of  white  clouds  (and  they  thought  it  was  the  moon). 

MISHNA:  The  chief  of  the  Beth  Din  then  said:  "  It  (the 
new  moon)  is  consecrated,"  and  all  the  people  repeated  after 
him:  "  It  is  consecrated;  it  is  consecrated."  Whether  the  new 
moon  was  seen  at  its  proper  time  (after  twenty-nine  days)  or 
not,  they  used  to  consecrate  it.  R.  Elazar  b.  Zadok  said :  If  it 
had  not  been  seen  at  its  proper  time  it  was  not  consecrated, 
because  it  had  already  been  consecrated  in  heaven  {i.  e.,  of 
itself). 

GEMARA:  Whence  do  we  deduce  this  ?  Said  R.  Hyya  b. 
Gamda  quoting  Rabbi,  in  the  name  of  R.  Jose  b.  Saul :  It  is 
written  [Lev.  xxiii.  44] :  "  Moses  declared  unto  the  children  of 
Israel  the  feasts  of  the  Lord,"  from  which  we  deduce  that  (as 
Moses,  who  was  the  chief  in  Israel,  declared  the  feasts  to 
Israel,  so  also)  the  chief  of  the  Beth  Din  should  announce  the 
words,  "  It  is  consecrated." 

"  All  the  people  repeated  after  him:  It  is  consecrated ;  it  is  conse- 
crated." Whence  do  we  deduce  this?  Said  R.  Papa:  It  is 
written  [Lev.  xxiii.  2] :  "  Shall  proclaim."  "  Othom  "  (them). 
Do  not  read  "  Othom,"  but  Athem  (ye) — i.  e.,  which  ye,  all  the 
people,  shall  proclaim.  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak,  however,  said: 
We  know  it  from  the  words  [ibid.]:  "  These  are  my  feasts," 
i.  e.,  {these  people)  shall  announce  my  feasts.  Why  are  the 
words  "It  is  consecrated"  repeated?  Because  in  the  scrip- 
tural verse  just  quoted  we  find  it  written  "  holy  convocations  " 


46  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

{literally,  announcements,  and  the  minimum  of  the  plural 
expression    is   two). 

"  R.  Elazar  b.  Zadok  said:  If  it  had  not  been  seen  at  its 
proper  time  it  was  not  consecrated,''  etc.  We  have  learned  in 
a  Boraitha,  Pelimo*  said:  If  the  new  moon  appear  at  its 
proper  time  it  was  not  customary  to  consecrate  it,  but  if  it 
appeared  out  of  its  proper  time  they  used  to  consecrate  it.  R. 
Eliezer,  however,  said:  In  neither  case  would  they  consecrate 
it,  for  it  is  written  [Lev.  xxv.  lo]:  "And  ye  shall  consecrate 
the  fiftieth  y^'as;''  years  should  be  consecrated,  but  not  months. 
Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  "  The  halakha  prevails 
according  to  R.  Elazer  b.  Zadok.  Said  Abayi:  There  can  be  a 
support  to  this  from  the  following  Mishna,  viz.:  "  If  the  Beth 
Din  and  all  Israel  saw  the  new  moon  (on  the  thirtieth  day)  and 
if  the  examination  of  the  witnesses  had  already  taken  place,  and 
it  had  become  dark  before  they  had  time  to  announce  '  It  is 
consecrated,'  the  month  (just  passing)  is  intercalary."  That 
(the  month)  is  intercalary  is  mentioned  (by  the  Mishna),  but  not 
that  they  said  "It  is  consecrated."  It  is  not  clear  that  this  is 
a  support  for  Abayi's  argument,  for  it  was  necessary  to  say  that 
it  was  intercalary,  or  we  would  not  have  known  that  the  next 
day  was  the  intercalary  day.  One  might  have  thought  that, 
since  the  Beth  Din  and  all  Israel  saw  the  new  moon,  it  was 
apparent  to  all,  and  that  the  month  does  not  become  inter- 
calary; therefore  he  teaches  us  that  (nevertheless  the  month 
becomes  intercalary). 

MISHNA:  R.  Gamaliel  had  on  a  tablet,  and  on  a  wall  of 
his  upper  room,  illustrations  of  the  various  phases  of  the  moon, 
which  he  used  to  show  to  the  common  people,  saying:  "  Did 
you  see  the  moon  like  this  figure  or  like  this  ? " 

GEMARA:  Is  this  permitted?  Have  we  not  learned  in  a 
Boraitha  that  the  words  "  Ye  shall  not  make  anything  with  me  " 
[Ex.  XX.  20]  mean,  ye  shall  not  make  pictures  of  my  ministers 
that  minister  before  me,  such  as  the  sun,  moon,  stars  or  plan- 
ets ?  It  was  different  with  R.  Gamaliel,  for  others  made  it  for 
him.  But  others  made  one  for  R.  Jehudah,  yet  Samuel  said  to 
him:  "Thou,  sagacious  one,  destroy  that  figure !  "f  In  the 
latter  case  the  figure  was  embossed,  and  he  was  afraid  that  one 
might  suspect  the  owner  (of  using  it  as  an  idol).      Need  one  be 


*  The  name  of  a  Tana,  a  contemporary  of  Rabbi. 
\  Literally  "  put  out  the  eyes  of  that  lig'ure  !  "' 


"NEW   YEAR."  47 

afraid  of  such  suspicion  ?  Did  not  that  synagogue  in  Shep- 
hithibh  of  Ncherdai  have  a  statue  (of  the  king),  yet  Rabh, 
Samuel  and  Samuel's  father  and  Levi  went  there  to  pray  and 
were  not  afraid  of  being  suspected  (of  idolatry)  ?  It  is  a  differ- 
ent  case  where  there  arc  many.  Yet  R.  Gamaliel  was  only  one. 
Yea,  but  he  was  a  prince,  and  there  were  always  many  with  him  ; 
and  if  you  wish  you  may  say  that  he  had  them  made  for  the 
purpose  of  instruction,  and  that  which  is  written  [Deut.  xviii.  9], 
"  thou  shalt  not  learn  to  do,"  means  but  thou  mayest  learn,  in 
order  to  understand  and  to  teach. 

MISHNA:  It  happened  once  that  two  witnesses  came  and 
said :  We  saw  the  moon  in  the  eastern  part  of  the  heavens 
in  the  morning,  and  in  the  western  part  in  the  evening.  R. 
Jo'hanan  b.  Nouri  declared  them  to  be  false  witnesses;  but 
when  they  came  to  Yamnia,  Rabbon  Gamaliel  received  their 
evidence  as  valid.  (On  another  occasion)  two  other  wit- 
nesses came  and  said :  We  saw  the  moon  on  its  proper  day, 
but  could  not  see  it  on  the  next  evening  of  the  intercalary 
day.  R.  Gamaliel  accepted  their  testimony,  but  R.  Dosa  b. 
Harkhenas  said :  They  are  false  watnesses ;  for  how  can  they 
testify  of  a  woman  being  delivered  (on  a  certain  day)  when 
on  the  next  day  she  appears  to  be  pregnant  ?  Then  R.  Je- 
hoshua  said  unto  him:  I  approve  your  opinion.  Upon  this  R. 
Gamaliel  sent  him  (R.  Jehoshua)  word,  saying:  "  I  order  thee 
to  appear  before  me  on  the  Day  of  Atonement,  according  to 
your  computation,  with  your  staff  and  with  money."  R.  Aqiba 
went  to  him  (R.  Jehoshua)  and  found  him  grieving.  He  then 
said  to  him :  I  can  prove  that  all  which  R.  Gamaliel  has  done  is 
proper,  for  it  is  said:  "  These  are  the  feasts  of  the  Lord,  holy 
convocations  which  ye  shall  proclaim,"  either  at  their  proper 
time,  or  not  at  their  proper  time,  only  their  convocations  are  to 
be  considered  as  holy  festivals.  When  he  (R.  Jehoshua)  came 
to  R.  Dosa  b.  Harkhinas,  the  latter  told  him:  "  If  we  are  to 
reinvestigate  the  decisions  of  the  Beth  Din  of  R,  Gamaliel,  we  must 
also  reinvestigate  the  decisions  of  all  th'e  tribunals  of  justice  which 
have  existed  from  the  time  of  Moses  till  the  present  day;  for  it 
is  said  [Ex.  xxiv.  9]  Moses,  Aaron,  Nadab,  Abihu,  and  seventy 
elders  went  up  (to  the  Mount)."  Why  were  not  the  names  of 
the  elders  also  specified  ?  To  teach  us  that  every  three  men  in 
Israel  that  form  a  Beth  Din  are  to  be  respected  in  an  equal 
degree  with  the  Beth  Din  of  Moses.  Then  did  R.  Jehoshua 
take  his  staff  and  money  in  his  hand,  and  went  to  Yamnia,  to 


^8  THE    BABYLOMAX    TALMUD. 

R.  Gamaliel,  on  the  very  day  on  which  the  Day  of  Atonement 
would  have  been  according  to  his  computation,  when  R.  Gam- 
aliel  arose  and  kissed  him  on  the  forehead,  saying:  "  Enter  in 
peace,  my  master  and  disciple  !  My  master — in  knowledge  ;  my 
disciple — since  thou  didst  obey  my  injunction." 

GEMARA :  We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha  that  R.  Gam- 
aliel said  to  the  sages:  "  Thus  it  has  been  handed  down  to  me 
from  the  house  of  my  grandfather  (Zamalill  the  elder)  that  some- 
times the  new  moon  appears  elongated  and  sometimes  dimin- 
ished. R.  Hyya  saw  the  old  moon  yet  on  the  morning  of  the 
twenty-ninth  day,  and  threw  clods  of  earth  at  it,  saying :  '  We 
should  consecrate  thee  in  the  evening,  and  thou  art  seen  now  ? 
Go,  hide  thyself! 

Said  Rabbi  to  R.  Hyya:  "Go  to  Entob  and  consecrate  the 
month  and  send  back  to  me  as  a  password*  '  David,  the  King 
of  Israel,  still  lives,'  " 

The  rabbis  taught:  Once  it  happened  that  the  heavens  were 
thick  with  clouds  and  the  form  of  the  moon  was  seen  on  the 
twenty-ninth  of  the  month  (of  Elul),  so  that  the  people  thought 
that  New  Year's  Day  should  be  then  proclaimed,  and  they  (the 
Beth  Din)  were  about  to  consecrate  it.  Said  R.  Gamaliel  to 
them :  Thus  it  has  been  handed  down  to  me  by  tradition,  from 
the  house  of  my  grandfather,  the  consecration  of  the  moon  can- 
not take  place  at  a  period  less  than  twenty-nine  and  a  half  days, 
two-thirds  and  .0052  {i.  e.,  seventy-three  'Halaqim)  of  an  hour. 
On  that  self-same  day  the  mother  of  Ben  Zaza  died  and  R. 
Gamaliel  delivered  a  great  funeral  oration, t  not  because  she 
specially  deserved  it,  but  in  order  that  the  people  might  know 
that  the  new  moon  had  not  yet  been  consecrated  by  the  Beth 
Din. 

"  R.  Aqiba  went  to  hiniy  and  found  him  grieving.''  The 
schoolmen  propounded  a  question:  "Who  found  whom  griev- 
ing ?"  Come  and  hear.  We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  "  R. 
Aqiba  went  to  R.  Jehoshua  and  found  him  grieving,  so  he  asked 
him:  'Rabbi,  why  art  thou  grieving?'  And  he  answered: 
'  Aqiba,  I  would  rather  lie  sick  for  twelve  months  than  to  have 
this  order  issued  for  my  appearance.'  Rejoined  R.  Aqiba: 
'  Rabbi,  permit  me  to  say  one  thing  in  thy  presence  which  thou 
thyself  hast  taught  me.'     R.    Jehoshua   granted   him   permis- 

*  This  device  was  resorted  to,  because  in  the  days  of  Rabbi,  the  Romans  had 
prohibited  the  Jews,  under  penalty  of  death,  to  consecrate  the  moon. 

f  No  funerals  or  funeral  orations  were  or  are  permitted  on  the  holidays 


"  NEW    YEAR. 


49 


Bion,  and  R.  Aqiba  proceeded:  '  It  is  written  [Lev.  xxiii.  2, 
4  and  37] :  Three  times  '  shall  proclaim  Othom  (them),  which 
should,  however,  not  be  read  Othom  (them),  but  Athem  (ye), 
which  would  make  the  verse  read,  "  Ye  shall  proclaim."  Now 
the  threefold  "j^"  signifies  that  even  if  j^- were  deceived  by 
false  pretences  and  changed  the  day  of  the  festivals,  or  even  if 
ye  did  it  purposely,  or  even  if  ye  were  held  to  be  in  error  by 
others — once  the  dates  had  been  established  they  must  so  remain.' 
With  the  following  words  R,  Jehoshua  answered  R.  Aqiba: 
Aqiba,  thou  hast  comforted  me ;  Aqiba,  thou  hast  comforted 
me. 

"  When  he  {Rabbi  Jehoshua)  came  to  R.  Dosa  b.  HarkhenaSy* 
etc.  The  rabbis  taught:  The  reason  that  the  names  of  those 
elders  are  not  mentioned,  is,  in  order  that  one  should  not  say: 
Is  So-and-so  like  Moses  and  Aaron  ?  Is  So-and-so  like  Nadabh 
and  Abihu  ?  Is  So-and-so  like  Eldad  and  Medad  ?  (And  how 
do  we  know  that  one  should  not  ask  thus  ?)  Because,  it  is 
written  [i  Sam.  xii.  6]:  "  And  Samuel  said  unto  the  people  the 
Lord  that  appointed  Moses  and  Aaron  "  and  in  the  same  con- 
nection it  is  written  [ibid.  11]:  "And  the  Lord  sent  Jerubaal 
and  Bedan  and  Jephtha  and  Samuel."  [Jerubaal  is  Gideon; 
and  why  is  he  named  Jerubaal  ?  Because  he  strove  against 
Baal.  Bedan  is  Sampson ;  and  why  is  he  named  Bedan  ?  Be- 
cause he  came  from  Dan.  Jephtha  means  just  what  it  is  (/.  e., 
he  had  no  surname  or  attribute).]  And  it  is  also  written  [Ps. 
xcix.  6] :  "  Moses  and  Aaron  among  his  priests,  and  Samuel 
among  those  who  called  upon  his  name."  The  sacred  text 
regards  the  three  common  people  equal  with  the  three  noblest, 
to  teach  us  that  Jerubaal  was  in  his  generation  like  Moses  in 
his;  Bedan  in  his  generation  was  like  Aaron  in  his;  Jephtha  in 
his  generation  was  like  Samuel  in  his  generation.  From  all  this 
one  must  learn  that  if  even  the  commonest  of  the  commoners  is 
appointed  leader  by  a  community,  he  must  be  considered  as  the 
noblest  of  the  nobility,  for  it  is  said  [Deut.  xvii.  9] :  "  And  thou 
shalt  come  unto  the  priests,  the  Levites,  and  unto  the  judge  that 
shall  be  in  his  days."  (Why  does  the  passage  say"  in  those 
days  "  ?)  Can  you  imagine  that  one  could  go  to  a  judge  who  was 
not  in  his  days  ?  (Surely  not !  But  by  these  words  Scripture 
teaches  us  that  a  judge  is  to  be  held  "  in  his  days  "  equal  in  au- 
thority with  the  greatest  of  his  predecessors.)  We  find  a  similar 
teaching  in  Eccles.  vii.  10:  "  Say  not  thou  that  the  former  days 
were  better  than  these!  " 
4 


50  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

"  He  took  his  staff,''  etc.  The  rabbis  taught:  (R.  Gamaliel 
said  to  R.  Jehoshua):  Happy  is  the  generation  in  which  the 
leaders  listen  to  their  followers,  and  through  t^\s  the  followers 
consider  it  so  much  the  more  their  duty  (to  heed  the  teachings 
of  the  leaders). 


CHAPTER  III. 

REGULATIONS  CONCERNING  THE  INTERCALATING  OF  THE  MONTH — 
THE  CORNET,  AND  OF  WHAT  IT  IS  TO  BE  MADE — AND  THE 
PRAYERS  OF  THE  NEW  YEAR's  DAY. 

MISHNA:  If  the  Beth  Din  and  all  Israel  saw  (the  moon  on 
the  night  of  the  thirtieth  day),  or  if  the  witness  had  been  exam- 
ined, but  there  was  no  time  to  proclaim  "It  is  consecrated" 
before  it  had  become  dark,  the  month  is  intercalary.  If  the 
Beth  Din  alone  saw  it,  two  of  its  members  should  stand  up  and 
give  testimony  before  the  others,  who  shall  then  say  "  It  is  con- 
secrated; it  is  consecrated."  When  three  who  formed  a  Beth 
Din  saw  it,  two  should  stand  up  and  conjoining  some  of  their 
learned  friends  with  the  remaining  one,  give  their  testimony 
before  these,  who  are  then  to  proclaim  "It  is  consecrated;  it  is 
consecrated,"  for  one  (member  of  a  Beth  Din)  has  not  this  right 
by  himself  alone. 

GEMARA:  "7/"  the  Beth  Din  alone  saw  it,''  etc.  Why  so  ? 
Surely  hearsay  evidence  is  not  better  than  the  testimony  of  an 
eye-witness!  Said  R.  Zera:  "  It  refers  to  a  case  where  they 
saw  it  at  night  (and  on  the  next  day  they  could  not  consecrate 
the  new  moon  until  they  had  heard  the  evidence  of  two 
witnesses)." 

* '  When  three  who  formed  a  Beth  Din,  saw  ity  two  should  stand 
up  and  conjoining  some  of  their  learned  friends  with  the  remain- 
ing one,''  etc.  Why  so  ?  Here  also  we  may  say,  surely  hearsay 
evidence  is  not  better  than  the  testimony  of  an  eye-witness! 
And  if  you  would  say  that  this  also  means  where  they  saw  it  at 
night,  is  this  not,  then,  the  same  case  ?  The  case  is  the  same, 
but  the  above  statement  is  required  because  of  the  concluding 
words,  "  one  (member  of  a  Beth  Din)  has  not  the  right  by  him- 
self alone;  "  for  it  might  be  assumed,  since  in  civil  cases  three 
(are  required  to  constitute  a  Beth  Din),  but  where  he  is  well 
known  (as  a  learned  authority)  one  judge  may  act  alone,  so  here 
we  may  consecrate  (the  new  moon)  on  the  authority  of  one 
judge;  therefore,  he  teaches  us  (that  three  are  required).  Per- 
haps I  should,  nevertheless,  say  here  (that  one  learned  authority 

51 


52  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

is  sufficient)  ?  Nay,  for  there  is  no  greater  authority  than 
Moses,  our  master,  yet  God  said  to  him  tliat  Aaron  should  act 
with  him,  as  it  is  written  [Ex.  xii.  i,  2]:  "  And  the  Lord  spake 
unto  Moses  and  Aaron,  in  the  land  of  Egypt,  saying:  This 
month  shall  be  unto  j^z^  the  beginning  of  months." 

Does  this  mean  to  say  that  a  witness  may  act  as  judge  ? 
And  shall  we  assume  that  the  above  Mishna  is  not  according  to 
R.  Aqiba,  as  on  following  Boraitha:  If  the  members  of  the 
Sanhedrin  saw  a  man  commit  murder,  part  of  them  may  act  as 
witnesses  and  part  as  judges,  according  to  R.  Tarphon ;  but 
according  to  R.  Aqiba  all  of  them  are  witnesses,  and  no  witness 
(of  a  crime)  may  act  as  judge.  It  may  be  said  that  the  Mishna 
is  even  according  to  R.  Aqiba.  In  the  latter  instance  R.  Aqiba 
only  refers  to  capital  cases,  for  it  is  written  [Numb.  xxxv.  24, 
25]:  "  Then  the  congregation  shall  judge  .  .  .  and  the  congre- 
gation shall  deliver,"  and  since  they  saw  him  commit  murder, 
they  will  not  be  able  to  urge  any  plea  in  his  favor;  but  here 
(concerning  the  new  moon)  even  R.  Aqiba  assents  (that  a  wit- 
ness may  act  as  judge). 

MISHNA:  Every  kind  of  cornet  may  be  used  (on  New 
Year's  Day)  except  those  made  of  cow-horn,  because  they  are 
called  "  horn  "  (geren),  and  not  "  cornet"  {s/iojf /tar).  R.  Jose 
said:  Are  not  all  cornets  called  "  horn  ?"  for  it  is  said  [Josh, 
vi.  5]:  "  And  it  came  to  pass  that  when  they  made  a  long  blast 
with  the  horn  of  the  Jobhel. " 

GEMARA:  How  comes  it  that  the  word  Jobhel  means 
ram  ?  A  Boraitha  teaches :  R.  Aqiba  says :  When  I  went  to 
Arabia  I  found  they  called  a  ram  "  Yubla." 

The  rabbis  did  not  know  the  meaning  of  the  word  Sal- 
seleho  in  the  passage  [Prov.  iv.  8]:  "  Salseleho  and  she  shall 
exalt  thee."  One  day  they  heard  Rabbi's  maidservant  say  to 
a  certain  man  who  was  (conceitedly)  playing  with  his  hair, 
"How  long  wilt  thou  mesalsel  (hold  up)  thy  hair?"  The 
rabbis  did  not  know  the  meaning  of  the  \Nord  yehabhekha  in  the 
passage  [Ps.  Iv.  23]:  "  Cast  yehabhekha  (thy  burden)  upon  the 
Lord."  Said  Rabba  bar  Bar  Hana:  "  One  day  I  went  with  a 
certain  Arabian  caravan  merchant,  and  I  was  carrying  a  burden. 
Said  he  to  me :  '  Take  down  yehabhekha  (thy  burden)  and  put  it 
on  my  camel.'  " 

MISHNA:  The  cornet  used  on  the  New  Year  was  a  straight 
horn  of  a  wild  goat;  the  mouth-piece  was  covered  with  gold. 
The  two  trumpets  were  stationed  one  on  each  side.     The  sound 


"NEW   YEAR."  53 

of  the  cornet  was  prolonged,  while  that  of  the  trumpet  was 
short,  because  the  special  duty  of  the  day  was  the  sounding  of 
the  cornet.  On  the  fast  days  two  crooked  ram's  horns  were  used, 
their  mouth-pieces  being  covered  with  silver,  and  the  two  trum- 
pets were  stationed  in  the  middle  between  them.  The  sound 
of  the  cornet  was  shortened,  while  that  of  the  trumpet  was  pro- 
longed, because  the  special  duty  of  the  day  was  the  sounding  of 
the  trumpets.  The  Jubilee  and  New  Year's  Day  were  alike  in 
respect  to  the  sounding  (of  the  cornet)  and  the  benedictions, 
but  R.  Jehudah  says:  "On  the  New  Year  we  blow  (a  cornet) 
made  of  ram's  horn,  and  on  the  Jubilee  one  made  of  the  horn  of 
a  wild  goat." 

GEMARA:  R.  Levi  said:  It  is  a  duty  on  New  Year's  Day 
and  the  Day  of  Atonement  to  use  a  bent  cornet,  but  during  the 
rest  of  the  year  a  straight  one.  But  have  we  not  learned  that 
the  cornet  used  on  the  New  Year  must  be  the  "  straight  horn 
of  a  wild  goat  ? "  He  (R.  Levi)  said  as  R.  Jehudah  of  the  fol- 
lowing Boraitha:  On  New  Year's  Day  they  used  to  blow  (a 
cornet)  made  of  a  straight  ram's  horn,  and  on  the  Jubilees  one 
made  of  wild  goat's  horn.  What  is  their  point  of  variance  ?  R. 
Jehudah  holds  that  on  New  Year's  the  more  bent  in  spirit  a  man 
is,  and  on  the  Day  of  Atonement  the  more  upright  he  is  (in  his 
confessions)  the  better;  but  R.  Levi  holds  the  more  upright  a 
man  is  on  New  Year's  Day  and  the  more  bowed  in  spirit  on  the 
Fast  Days,  the  better. 

"  The  mouth-piece  was  covered  with  gold.''  Does  not  a  Bor- 
aitha teach,  however,  that  if  one  covers  the  place  to  which  the 
mouth  was  put  the  cornet  may  not  be  used ;  but  if  (he  covers) 
another  place  it  may  be  used  ?  Answered  Abayi :  "  Our  Mishna 
also  means  a  place  to  which  the  mouth  was  not  put." 

The  two  trumpets  were  stationed otte  on  each  side."  Could 
the  two  sounds  be  easily  distinguished  ?  Nay;  and  therefore 
the  sound  of  the  cornet  was  prolonged,  to  indicate  that  the 
special  duty  of  the  day  was  the  sounding  of  the  cornet. 

On  the  Fast -Days  two  crooked  ram's  horns  were  used,  their 
mouth-pieces  being  covered  with  silver."  Why  was  the  cornet 
used  in  the  one  case  covered  with  gold  and  in  the  other  with 
silver  ?  All  (signals  for)  assemblies  were  blown  on  horns  made 
with  silver,  as  it  is  written  [Numb.  x.  2] :  "  Make  unto  thee  two 
trumpets  of  silver  .  .  .  that  thou  mayest  use  them  for  the  call- 
ing of  the  assembly,"  etc.  R.  Papa  bar  Samuel  was  about  to 
follow  the  practice  prescribed  by  the  Mishna.     Said  Rabha  to 


54  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

him:  "  That  was  only  customary  so  long  as  the  Temple  was  in 
existence."  A  Boraitha  also  teaches  that  this  applies  only  to 
the  Temple;  but  in  the  country  (outside  of  Jerusalem)  in  a  place 
where  they  use  the  trumpet,  they  do  not  use  the  cornet,  and 
vice  versa.  Such  was  the  wont  of  R.  Halaphta  in  SepphoHs 
and  also  of  R.  Hanina  b.  Teradion  in  Si'hni.  When  the  matter 
was  brought  to  the  attention  of  the  sages  they  said :  "  That  was 
the  custom  only  at  the  eastern  gates  or  the  Temple  Mount." 
Rabha,  according  to  others  R.  Jehoshuaben  Levi,  asked:  "  From 
which  passage  is  this  deduced?"  From  the  passage  [Psalms 
xcviii.  6]:  "  With  trumpets  and  sound  of  cornet,  make  a  joyful 
noise  before  the  Lord,  the  King;"  /.  e.,  before  the  Lord,  the 
King  (in  the  Temple)  we  need  both  the  trumpets  and  the 
cornet,  but  not  elsewhere. 

' '  The  Jubilee,  and  the  New  Year  zuere  alike  in  respect  to  the 
sounding  {of  the  cornet),  and  the  benediction.''  R.  Samuel  bar 
Itz'hak  said :  According  to  whom  do  we  nowadays  pray:  "  This 
day  celebrates  the  beginning  of  thy  work,  a  memorial  of  the 
first  day  ? "  According  to  R.  Eliezer,  who  says:  The  world  was 
created  at  Tishri.  R.  Ina  objected.  Did  we  not  learn  in  our 
Mishna  that  the  Jubilee  and  New  Year  are  alike  in  respect  to 
the  sounding  (of  the  cornet),  and  the  benedictions,  and  now  how 
can  that  be  so  if  we  say  "  This  day  celebrates  the  beginning  of 
thy  work,  a  memorial  of  the  first  day,"  which  is  said  on  New 
Year,  but  not  on  the  Jubilee  ?  (That  which  we  have  learned  in 
our  Mishna  that  they  are  alike  means)  in  every  other  respect  but 
this. 

MISHNA:  It  is  unlawful  to  use  a  cornet  that  has  been  split 
and  afterwards  joined  together;  or  one  made  of  several  pieces 
joined  together.  If  a  cornet  had  a  hole  that  had  been  stopped 
up,  and  prevented  (the  production)  of  the  proper  sound,  it  must 
not  be  used ;  but  if  it  does  not  affect  the  proper  sound  it  may 
be  used.  If  one  should  blow  the  cornet  inside  a  pit,  a  cistern 
or  a  vat,  and  the  sound  of  the  cornet  was  (plainly)  heard  (by  one 
listening  to  it)  he  will  have  done  his  duty  (to  hear  the  cornet  on 
the  New  Year),  but  not  if  he  heard  only  an  indistinct  sound. 
Thus  also,  if  one  should  happen  to  pass  by  a  synagogue,  or  live 
close  by  it,  and  should  hear  the  cornet  (on  the  New  Year)  or  the 
reading  of  the  Book  of  Esther  (on  the  Feast  of  Esther),  he  will 
have  complied  with  the  requirements  of  the  law,  if  he  listened 
with  proper  attention,  but  not  otherwise;  and  although  the  one 
heard  it  as  well  as  the  other,  yet  the  difference  (on  which  every- 


"NEW   YEAR."  55 

thing  depends)  is  that  the  one  listened  with  proper  attention 
and  the  other  did  not. 

GEMARA:  The  rabbis  taught:  If  a  cornet  was  long  and 
was  shortened,  it  is  valid ;  if  one  scraped  it  and  reduced  it  to  its 
due  size  it  is  valid ;  if  one  covered  it  on  the  inside  with  gold  it 
is  invalid ;  if  on  the  outside  and  it  changed  the  tone  from  what  it 
originally  was,  it  is  invalid,  but  if  not  it  is.  If  a  cornet  had 
a  hole  in  it  and  it  was  closed  up,  and  thereby  prevented  (the 
production)  of  the  proper  sound,  it  is  invalid,  but  if  not  it  is 
valid;  if  one  placed  one  cornet  inside  another  and  the  sound 
heard  (by  a  listener)  was  produced  from  the  inner  one,  he  has 
fulfilled  his  duty,  but  if  from  the  outer  one,  he  has  not. 

* '  Or  one  made  of  several  pieces  joined  together. ' '  The  rabbis 
taught:  If  one  added  to  a  cornet  ever  so  small  a  piece,  whether 
it  be  of  the  same  kind  of  horn  or  not,  it  is  invalid.  If  a  cornet 
had  a  hole,  whether  one  stopped  it  up  with  a  piece  of  the  same 
kind  (of  horn)  or  not,  it  is  invalid.  R.  Nathan,  however,  said 
(only  when  repaired  with  material)  not  of  the  same  kind  it  is 
invalid,  but  otherwise  if  of  the  same  kind  it  is  valid.  (To  which) 
R.  Jehudah  added :  "  That  is,  if  the  greater  part  of  a  cornet  was 
broken."  From  this  we  can  infer  that  if  repaired  with  material 
of  the  same  kind,  although  the  greater  part  was  broken,  it  is, 
nevertheless,  valid. 

"  If  one  covered  a  cornet  on  the  inside  with  gold  it  is  invalid ; 
if  on  the  outside,  and  it  changed  the  tone  from  what  it  originally 
was,  it  is  not  valid,  but  if  not  it  is."  If  a  cornet  had  been  split 
lengthwise  it  is  invalid,  but  if  crosswise,  yet  enough  remained 
with  which  to  produce  the  sound,  it  is  valid,  but  if  not  it  is 
invalid.  (And  how  much  is  that  ?  R.  Simeon  b,  Gamaliel 
explains  it  to  be  as  much  as  we  may  hold  in  our  closed  hand, 
and  yet  on  either  side  a  portion  is  visible).*  If  its  tone  was  thin, 
or  heavy,  or  harsh,  it  is  valid,  for  all  tones  were  considered 
proper  in  a  cornet.  The  schoolmen  sent  a  message  to  the  father 
of  Samuel:  ("  One  has  fulfilled  his  duty  if  he  bored  a  hole  in  a 
horn  and  blew  it.  That  is  self-evident !  for  in  every  cornet  a 
hole  must  surely  be  bored."  Said  R.  Ashi:  "  If  one  bored  a 
hole  through  the  bony  substance  inside  the  horn  (which  ought 
to  be  removed),  are  we  to  suppose  that  one  substance  causes  an 

*  The  opinion  of  the  editor  is  that  this  parenthesis  is  a  fair  illustration  of  the 
interpolations  in  the  Talmud.  The  term  Piresh  is  not  Talmudical  and  was  only 
used  in  later  times.  It  has  only  been  left  here  because  the  explanation  happens  to  be 
correct. 


56  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

interposition  with  another  of  the  same  nature  (and  that  there- 
fore it  must  not  be  used)?"  Therefore  they  sent  to  say  that 
this  is  no  objection. 

"  If  one  should  blow  the  cornet  inside  a  pit  or  a  cistern^''*  etc. 
R.  Huna  said:  They  taught  this  only  in  the  case  of  those  who 
stood  at  the  pit's  mouth,  but  those  who  were  in  the  pit  itself 
fulfill  their  duty.  If  one  heard  a  part  of  (the  required  number 
of)  the  sounds  of  the  cornet  in  the  pit,  and  the  rest  at  the  pit's 
mouth,  he  has  done  his  duty;  but  if  he  heard  a  part  before  the 
dawn  of  day,  and  the  rest  after  the  dawn,  he  has  not.  Said  Abayi 
to  him:  Why  in  the  latter  case  (should  he  not  have  done  his 
duty,  because  he  did  not  hear  the  whole  of  the  sounds  at  the 
time  when  the  duty  should  be  performed),  yet  in  the  former 
case  (he  is  considered  to  have  done  his  duty)  under  similar  cir- 
cumstances ?  How  can  these  cases  be  compared  ?  In  the  latter 
case,  the  night  is  not  the  time  of  performing  the  obligation  at  all, 
while  in  the  former  case,  a  pit  is  a  place  where  the  duty  may  be 
performed  for  those  who  are  in  it !  Shall  we  say  that  Rabba 
held:  If  one  heard  the  end  of  the  sounding  (of  the  cornet)  with- 
out having  heard  the  beginning  he  did  his  duty,  and  from  these 
words  we  must  understand  that  if  he  heard  the  beginning  with- 
out the  end  he  has  also  done  his  duty  ?  Come  and  hear.  If 
one  blew  the  first  sound  (Tekia)  and  prolonged  the  second 
(Tekia)  as  long  as  two,  it  is  only  reckoned  as  one;  and  (if 
Rabba's  opinion  is  correct)  why  should  he  reckon  it  as  two  ? 
(This  is  no  question)!  If  he  heard  half  the  sounds  he  has  done 
his  duty,  but  when  one  blows  one  sound  on  the  cornet  we  can- 
not consider  it  two  halves. 

Rabha  says:  One  who  vows  to  receive  no  benefit  from  his 
neighbor  may  nevertheless  blow  for  him  the  obligatory  sounds 
(of  the  cornet);  one  who  vows  refusal  of  any  benefit  from  a 
cornet  may  blow  on  it  the  obligatory  sounds.  Furthermore, 
said  Rabha:  "  One  who  vows  to  refuse  any  benefit  from  his 
neighbor  may  sprinkle  on  him  the  waters  of  a  sin-offering  in  the 
winter,  but  not  in  the  summer.  One  who  vows  to  receive  no 
benefit  from  a  spring  may  take  in  it  a  legal  bath  in  the  winter, 
but  not  in  the  summer. 

The  schoolmen  sent  a  message  to  the  father  of  Samuel:  "  If 
one  had  been  compelled  to  eat  unleavened  bread  (on  the  first 
night  of  Passover,  i.  e.,  he  had  not  done  so  of  his  own  accord) 
he  has  also  done  his  duty."  Who  compelled  him?  Said  R. 
Ashi:  "  Persians."     Rabha  remarked:  From  this  statement  we 


"NEW   YEAR." 


57 


can  prove  that  if  one  plays  a  song  on  a  cornet  he  does  his  duty. 
Is  this  not  self-evident  ?  The  cases  are  similar.  One  might 
suppose  that  in  the  former  case  the  law  commanded  him  to  eat 
(unleavened  bread)  and  he  ate  it,  but  in  the  latter  case  the  Torah 
speaks  of  "  a  remembrance  of  blowing  the  cornet"  [Lev.  xxiii. 
24],  and  (when  he  plays  a  song  he  does  not  remember  his  duty 
for)  he  is  engaged  in  a  worldly  occupation.  Therefore  he  teaches 
us  that  even  under  such  circumstances  he  does  his  duty. 

To  this  an  objection  was  raised.  We  have  learned:  If  one 
who  listened  (to  the  sounds  of  the  cornet)  paid  the  proper  atten- 
tion, but  he  that  blew  the  cornet  did  not,  or  vice  versa,  they 
have  not  done  their  duty  until  both  blower  and  listener  pay 
proper  attention.  This  would  be  correct  in  the  case  where  the 
blower,  but  not  the  listener,  pays  the  proper  attention,  for  it  is 
possible  that  the  listener  imagines  he  hears  the  noise  of  an 
animal ;  but  how  can  it  happen  that  the  listener  should  pay  due 
attention,  and  the  one  who  blows  (the  cornet)  should  not,  ex- 
cept he  was  only  playing  a  song  (by  which  he  does  not  do  his 
duty)  ?  (It  is  possible)  if  he  only  produced  a  dull  sound  {i.  e., 
and  not,  for  example,  a  Tekia). 

Said  Abayi  to  him:  "  But  now,  according  to  thy  conclusion 
(that  a  duty  performed  without  due  attention  is  the  same  as  if 
performed  with  due  attention)  wilt  thou  say  that  he  who  sleeps 
in  a  tabernacle  on  the  eighth  day  of  the  Feast  of  the  Tabernacles 
shall  receive  stripes  (because  he  had  no  right  to  observe  the  law 
for  more  than  seven  days)  ?"  Answered  Rabha:  "  I  say  that 
one  cannot  infringe  a  command  except  at  the  time  when  it 
should  be  performed."  R.  Shamen  b.  Abba  raised  an  objec- 
tion :  Whence  do  we  know  that  a  priest  who  ascended  the  plat- 
form (to  pronounce  the  priestly  benediction)  must  not  say: 
Since  the  Torah  has  given  me  the  right  to  bless  Israel,  I  will 
supplement  (the  benedictions,  Numb.  vi.  24-26)  by  one  of  my 
own,  as,  for  example  [Deut.  i.  11]:  "  May  the  Lord  God  of 
your  fathers  make  you  a  thousand  times  so  many  more  as  ye 
are?"  From  the  Torah  which  says  [Deut.  iv.  2]:  "  Ye  shall 
not  add  unto  the  word."  And  in  this  case  as  soon  as  he  has 
finished  the  benedictions  the  time  for  performing  that  duty  has 
gone  by;  still  if  he  add  a  blessing  of  his  own  he  is  guilty  of 
infringing  the  law,  which  says,  "  Ye  shall  not  add."  This  refers 
to  a  case  of  where  the  priest  had  not  yet  finished  the  scriptural 
benediction.  We  have  learned,  however,  that  he  had  finished 
the  scriptural  benediction.     The  Boraitha  means  to  say  that  he 


58 


THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 


had  finished  only  one  of  the  (three)  benedictions.  We  have 
learned  in  another  Boraitha,  however,  that  even  if  he  had  com- 
pleted all  three  benedictions,  and  then  supplemented  one  of  his 
own,  he  is  also  guilty  of  a  transgression.  In  this  case  it  is  differ- 
ent, for  it  might  be  that  the  priest  would  come  to  another 
assembly  where  prayer  was  held  and  be  called  upon  to  again 
pronounce  the  benedictions.  Hence  it  must  be  assumed  that 
there  is  no  specified  time  for  the  priest  to  pronounce  his  bene- 
dictions, but  all  day  can  be  considered  as  the  proper  time,  and 
thus  the  priest,  by  supplementing  a  benediction  of  his  own, 
becomes  guilty. 

R.  Shamen  bar  Abha,  however,  does  not  admit  that  the 
whole  day  is  the  proper  time,  because  the  priest  is  not  in  duty 
bound  to  pronounce  the  benediction  in  another  assembly. 
Nevertheless  he  is  guilty  if  he  should  supplement  an  additional 
benediction  of  his  own ;  whence  we  see  that  even  if  the  proper 
time  has  passed,  guilt  is  nevertheless  incurred,  and  this  is  con- 
tradictory to  Rabha's  dictum.  Therefore,  said  Rabha:  (I 
mean).  To  fulfill  the  requirements  of  the  law  one  need  not  pay 
attention ;  to  transgress  the  law  against  supplementing,  at  the 
time  prescribed  for  performing  it,  also  does  not  require  one's 
special  attention ;  but  to  transgress  the  law  against  supplement- 
ing, at  the  time  not  prescribed  for  performance,  needs  one's 
special  attention.  Hence  the  priest,  after  completing  the  scrip- 
tural benediction,  who  says:  "  Because  the  law  gives  me  author- 
ity I  shall  supplement  a  benediction  of  my  own,  demonstrates 
thereby  that  he  does  this  with  special  attention,  and  conse- 
quently incurs  guilt,  even  if  the  prescribed  time  had  passed. 

R.  Zera  said  to  his  attendant:  "  Pay  attention,  and  sound 
(the  cornet)  for  me.  Do  we  not  thus  see  that  he  holds  that  to 
fulfill  the  requirements  of  the  law  the  act  is  not  enough,  and 
one  must  pay  attention  ?  This  is  a  disputed  question  among 
the  Tanaim,  for  we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  One  who  hears 
(the  blowing  of  the  cornet)  must  himself  listen  in  order  to  per- 
form his  duty,  and  he  who  blows  (the  cornet)  blows  after  his 
usual  manner.  R.  Jose  said:  "  These  words  are  said  only  in 
the  case  of  the  minister  for  a  congregation ;  but  an  individual 
does  not  do  his  duty  unless  both  he  that  hears  and  he  that 
blows  pay  proper  attention." 

MISHNA:  (It  is  written  in  Ex.  xvii.  ii  that)  "When 
Moses  held  up  his  hand,  Israel  prevailed,"  etc.  Could  then  the 
hands  of  Moses  cause  war  to  be  waged  or  to  cease  ?     (Nay) ;  but 


"NEW  YEAR."  59 

it  means  that  as  long  as  Israel  looked  to  heaven  for  aid,  and 
directed  their  hearts  devoutly  to  their  Father  in  heaven,  they 
prevailed ;  but  when  they  ceased  to  do  so  they  failed.  We  find 
a  similar  instance  also  in  [Numb.  xxi.  8] :  "  Make  unto  thee  a 
fiery  serpent  and  set  it  on  a  pole,  and  every  one  that  is  bitten, 
when  he  looketh  upon  it  shall  live."  Could,  then,  the  serpent 
kill  or  bring  to  life  ?  (Surely  not.)  But  it  means  when  the 
Israelites  looked  (upward)  to  heaven  for  aid  and  subjected  their 
will  to  that  of  their  Father  in  heaven  they  were  healed,  but 
when  they  did  not  they  perished.  A  deaf  mute,  an  idiot,  or  a 
child  cannot  act  in  behalf  of  the  assembled  congregation.  This 
is  the  general  rule:  "  Whosoever  is  not  obliged  to  perform  a 
duty  cannot  act  in  behalf  of  the  assembled  congregation  "  (for 
that  duty). 

GEMARA:  The  rabbis  taught:  All  are  obliged  to  hear  the 
sounding  of  the  cornet,  priests,  Levites  and  Israelites,  prose- 
lytes, freed  slaves,  a  hermaphrodite,  and  one  who  is  half  slave 
and  half  free.  A  sexless  person  cannot  act  in  behalf  of  those 
like  or  unlike  itself,  but  a  hermaphrodite  can  act  in  behalf  of 
those  of  the  same  class,  but  not  of  any  other. 

The  Master  said :  It  is  said,  All  are  obliged  to  hear  the 
sounding  of  the  cornet,  priests,  Levites  and  Israelites.  This  is 
self-evident,  for  if  these  are  not  obliged,  who  are  ?  It  was 
necessary  to  mention  priests  here,  for  one  might  have  supposed 
that  since  we  have  learnt  "  the  Jubilee  and  New  Year's  Day  are 
alike  with  regard  to  the  sounding  of  the  cornet  and  the  benedic- 
tions," that  only  those  who  are  included  under  the  rule  of 
Jubilee  are  included  in  the  duties  of  New  Year's  Day;  and  as 
the  priests  are  not  included  in  the  rule  of  Jubilee  (for  they  have 
no  lands  to  lie  fallow,  etc.),  might  we  not,  therefore,  say  that 
they  are  not  bound  by  the  duties  of  New  Year's  Day  ?  Therefore 
he  comes  to  teach  us  (that  they  must  hear  the  sounding  of  the 
cornet). 

A'hbha,  the  son  of  R.  Zera,  teaches:  "  With  regard  to  all 
the  benedictions,  although  one  has  already  done  his  duty  he 
may  nevertheless  act  for  others,  with  the  exception  of  the  bless- 
ings over  bread  and  wine;  concerning  which,  if  he  has  not  yet 
done  his  duty,  he  may  act  for  others,  but  if  he  has  done  his 
duty  he  must  not  act  for  others." 

Rabha  asked:  What  is  the  rule  in  the  case  of  the  benediction 
of  the  unleavened  bread,  and  the  wine  used  at  the  sanctifi cation 
of  a  festival  ?     Since  these  are  special  duties,  may  one  act  for 


6o  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

others,  or  perhaps  the  (duty  is  only  the  eating  of  the  unleav- 
ened bread  and  the  drinking  of  the  sanctification  wine) ;  but 
the  benediction  is  not  a  duty,  and  therefore  he  cannot  act  for 
others  ?  Come  and  hear.  R.  Ashi  says:  When  we  were  at  the 
home  of  R.  Papa,  he  said  the  blessing  of  sanctification  for  us, 
and  when  his  field  laborer  came  from  work  later  he  said  the 
blessing  for  him  also. 

The  rabbis  taught :  One  must  not  say  the  benediction  over 
bread  for  guests,  unless  he  eats  with  them,  but  he  may  do  so 
for  the  members  of  the  family,  to  initiate  them  into  their  relig- 
ious duties.  With  regard  to  the  Service  of  Praise  [Hallel  Ps. 
cxiii.-cxviii.]  and  the  reading  of  the  Book  of  Esther,  although 
one  had  already  done  his  duty,  he  may,  nevertheless,  act  for 
others. 


CHAPTER   IV. 

REGULATIONS    CONCERNING    THE    NEW    YEAR's   DAY    WHEN    IT    FALLS 

ON    SABBATH,  AND  THE   PRAYERS   THEREON THE   ORDINANCES  OF 

THE  BENEDICTIONS,  ETC. 

MISHNA:  When  the  feast  of  New  Year  happened  to  fall 
on  the  Sabbath,  they  used  to  sound  (the  cornet)  in  the  Temple, 
but  not  outside  of  it.  After  the  destruction  of  the  Temple  R. 
Jo'hanan  b.  Zakkai  ordained  that  they  should  sound  (the 
cornet)  in  every  place  in  which  there  was  a  Beth  Din.  R. 
Elazar  says  that  R.  Jo'hanan  b.  Zakkai  instituted  that  for 
Yamnia  alone ;  but  they  (the  sages)  say  the  rule  applied  both  to 
Yamnia  and  every  place  in  which  there  was  a  Beth  Din.  And 
in  this  respect  also  was  Jerusalem  privileged  more  than  Yamnia, 
that  every  city  from  which  Jerusalem  could  be  seen,  or  the 
sounding  (of  the  cornet)  could  be  heard,  which  was  near  enough, 
and  to  which  it  was  allowed  to  go  on  the  Sabbath,  might  sound 
the  (cornet)  on  the  Sabbath ;  but  in  Yamnia  they  sounded  (the 
cornet)  before  the  Beth  Din  only. 

GEMARA:  Whence  do  we  deduce  all  this  ?  Said  Rabha: 
The  rabbis  took  a  precautionary  measure  concerning  them,  as 
said:  Although  the  duty  of  sounding  (the  cornet)  is  obligatory 
upon  all,  yet  all  are  not  skilled  in  sounding  (it) ;  therefore  they 
feared  lest  one  might  take  (the  cornet)  in  his  hand,  and  go  to  an 
expert  and  carry  it  more  than  four  ells  in  public  ground.  The 
same  rule  applies  to  the  palm  branch  {lulabh)  and  also  to  the 
scroll  (on  which  is  written  the)  Book  of  Esther. 

"  After  the  destruction  of  the  Temple y  R.  Jo'hanan  b.  Zakkai 
ordained,''  etc.  The  rabbis  taught:  Once  it  happened  that  New 
Year's  Day  fell  on  the  Sabbath,  and  all  the  cities  gathered 
together.  Said  R.  Jo'hanan  b.  Zakkai  to  the  Bne  Bathera:* 
"  Let  us  sound  (the  cornet)."  "  First,"  said  they,  "  let  us 
discuss."  "  Let  us  sound  it,"  replied  he,  "  and  then  we  will 
discuss."  After  they  had  sounded  (the  cornet)  they  said  to 
him:    "Now   let   us   discuss."     He   answered:    "The  cornet 

*  A  scholarly  family  of  Babylonifiii  descent,  much  favored  by  Herod. 

6i 


62  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

has  now  been  heard  in  Yamnia,  and  we  cannot  retract  after  the 
act  has  been  performed." 

' '  But  they  {the  sages)  say  the  rule  applied  both  to  Yamnia  and 
every  place  in  which  there  is  a  Beth  Din.''  Said  R.  Huna:  That 
means  in  the  presence  of  the  Beth  Din.  Does  this  preclude 
people  from  sounding  (the  cornet)  out  of  the  presence  of  the 
Beth  Din  ?  And,  when  R.  Itzhak  bar  Joseph  came  (from 
Yamnia)  did  he  not  say:  When  the  officiant  ministers  appointed 
by  the  congregation  in  Yamnia  had  finished  sounding  (the  cornet) 
one  could  not  hear  his  own  voice  on  account  of  the  sounds  (of 
the  cornets)  used  by  individuals  ?  (Even  individuals)  used  to 
sound  (the  cornet)  in  the  presence  of  the  Beth  Din.  It  was  also 
taught:  Rabbi  said,  "  We  may  only  sound  (the  cornet)  during 
the  time  that  the  Beth  Din  is  accustomed  to  sit." 

"Jerusalem  was  privileged  more  than  Yamnia,''  etc.  (When 
the  Mishna  speaks  of)  "  Every  city  from  which  Jerusalem  could 
be  seen,"  it  means  with  the  exception  of  a  city  located  in  the 
valley  (from  which  it  could  be  seen  only  by  ascending  to  an 
elevated  spot);  by  "the  sounding  (of  the  cornet)  could  be 
heard,"  it  means  to  except  a  city  located  on  the  top  of  a  moun- 
tain; by  "  which  was  near  enough,"  it  means  to  exclude  a  city 
outside  the  prescribed  limit  (of  a  Sabbath  journey);  and  by 
"  and  to  which  it  was  allowed  to  go,"  it  means  to  exclude  a  city 
(even  near  by)  but  divided  (from  Jerusalem)  by  a  river. 

MISHNA:  Formerly  the  palm  branch  (lulabh)  was  taken  to 
the  Temple  seven  days,  but  in  cities  outside  (of  Jerusalem)  it 
was  taken  (to  the  synagogue)  one  day.  Since  the  destruction  of 
the  Temple,  R.  Jo'hanan  b.  Zakkai  ordained  that  the  palm 
branch  should  everywhere  be  taken  seven  days,  in  commemora- 
tion of  the  Temple,  and  also  it  should  be  prohibited  (to  eat  the 
new  produce)  the  whole  day  of  waving  (the  sheaf-offering ;  vide 
Lev.  xxiii.  11-15). 

GEMARA:  Whence  do  we  know  that  we  do  things  in  com- 
memoration of  the  Temple  ?  It  is  written  [Jer.  xxx.  17]  :  "  For  I 
will  restore  health  unto  thee,  and  I  will  heal  thee  of  thy  wounds, 
saith  the  Lord,  because  they  called  thee  an  outcast,  saying,  This 
is  Zion  whom  no  man  seeketh  after."  By  implication  (we  see) 
that  it  (Zion  or  the  Temple)  needs  being  sought  after  (or  com- 
memorated). 

"And  that  it  should  be  prohibited  to  eat  .  .  .  on  the  whole  day 
of  waving  {the  sheaf -offering):'  etc.  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itzhak 
remarked:  R.   Jo'hanan  b.   Zakkai  says  this  according  to  the 


"NEW    YEAR."  63 

system  of  R.  Jehudah,  for  it  is  written  [Lev.  xxiii.  14]:  "  And 
ye  shall  eat  neither  parched  corn  .  .  .  until  the  self-same 
day,"  i.e.,  until  the  very  day  itself,  and  he  holds  that  when- 
ever the  expression  "  until"  (ad)  occurs  it  is  inclusive.  How 
can  you  say  the  above  according  to  (R.  Jehudah);  surely  he 
differs  from  R.  Jo'hanan  ber  Zakkai  ?  As  we  have  learnt  in  a 
Mishna:  Since  the  destruction  of  the  Temple  R.  Jo'hanan  b. 
Zakkai  ordained  that  it  should  be  prohibited  (to  eat  of  the  new 
produce)  the  whole  of  the  day  of  waving  (the  sheaf-offering). 
Said  R,  Jehudah :  Is  this  not  prohibited  by  the  passage  which 
says:  "  Until  the  self-same  day"  ?  R.  Jehudah  was  mistaken; 
he  thought  that  R.  Jo'hanan  b.  Zakkai  taught  that  (the  prohib- 
ition) was  rabbinical,  and  it  was  not  so,  for  R.  Jo'hanan  also 
said  it  was  biblical.  But  does  the  Mishna  not  say  "  he  or- 
dained "  ?  Yes;  but  what  does  it  mean  by  "  he  ordained"? 
(It  means)  he  explained  the  ordinance. 

MISHNA:  Formerly  they  received  evidence  as  to  the 
appearance  of  the  new  moon  the  whole  (of  the  thirtieth)  day. 
Once  the  witnesses  were  delayed  in  coming,  and  they  disturbed 
the  songs  of  the  Levites.  They  then  ordained  that  evidence 
should  only  be  received  until  (the  time  of)  the  afternoon  service, 
and  if  witnesses  came  after  that  time  both  that  and  the  following 
day  were  consecrated.  After  the  destruction  of  the  Temple, 
R.  Jo'hanan  b.  Zakkai  ordained  that  evidence  (as  to  the  appear- 
ance) of  the  new  moon  should  be  received  all  day. 

GEMARA:  What  disturbance  did  they  cause  to  the  songs 
of  the  Levites  ?  Said  R.  Zera  to  A'hbha,  his  son :  Go  and 
teach  to  them  (the  Mishna)  thus: "  They  ordained  that  evidence 
as  to  the  appearance  of  the  new  moon  should  not  be  received, 
only  that  there  might  be  time  during  the  day  to  offer  the  contin- 
ual and  the  additional  sacrifices  and  their  drink  offerings,  and  to 
chant  the  (daily)  song  without  disturbing  the  order." 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name 
of  R.  Aqiba,  What  (song)  did  (the  Levites)  chant  on  the  first  day 
of  the  week  ?  "  The  earth  is  the  Lord's  and  the  fulness 
thereof  "  [Ps.  xxiv.],  because  He  is  the  Creator,  the  Providence 
and  the  Ruler  of  the  Universe.  What  did  they  sing  on  the 
second  day  ?  "  Great  is  the  Lord  and  greatly  to  be  praised  " 
[  Ps.  xlviii.],  because  He  distributed  His  works  and  reigned 
over  them.  On  the  third  day  they  sang,  "  God  standeth  in  the 
congregation  of  the  mighty"  [Ps.  Ixxxii.],  because  He,  in  His 
wisdom,  made  the  earth  appear  and  prepared  the  world  for  its 


64  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

occupants.  On  the  fourth  day  they  sang,  "  0  Lord,  to  whom 
retribution  belongeth  "  [Ps.  xciv.],  because  (on  that  day)  He 
created  the  sun  and  moon,  and  (determined)  to  punish  in  the 
future  those  who  would  worship  them.  On  the  fifth  day  they 
sang,  "  Sing  aloud  unto  God  our  strength  "  [Ps,  Ixxxi.],  because 
(on  that  day)  He  created  birds  and  fish  to  praise  Him.  On  the 
sixth  day  they  sang,  "  The  Lord  reigneth,  He  is  clothed  with 
majesty"  [Ps.  xciii.],  because  (on  that  day)  He  finished  His 
works  and  reigned  over  them.  On  the  seventh  day  they  sang, 
"  A  Psalm  or  Song  for  the  Sabbath  Day"  [Ps.  xcii.],  for  the 
day  that  is  a  perfect  rest. 

Said  R.  Nehemiah:  "  Why  did  the  sages  make  a  distinction 
between  these  sections  (for  the  last  refers  to  a  future  event, 
while  all  the  others  refer  to  the  past)  ?  It  should  have  been  said 
that  they  sang  that  Psalm  on  the  Sabbath  day  because  He 
rested !  " 

What  did  the  Levites  sing  when  the  additional  sacrifices 
were  being  offered  on  the  Sabbath?  R.  Hanan  bar  Rabha  said  in 
the  name  of  Rabh :  Six  sections  of  Deut.  xxxii.*  R.  Hanan 
bar  Rabha  also  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  "  As  these  sections 
were  divided  (by  the  Levites),  so  they  are  divided  for  the  read- 
ing of  the  law  (on  the  Sabbath  on  which  they  are  read)."  What 
did  they  sing  at  the  Sabbath  afternoon  service  ?  Said  R. 
Jo'hanan:  A  portion  of  the  Song  of  Moses  [Ex.  xv.  i-io];  the 
conclusion  of  that  song  [ibid.  11-19],  and  the  Song  of  Israel 
[Numb.  xxi.  17]. 

The  schoolmen  asked:  Did  they  sing  all  these  on  one  Sab- 
bath, or  did  they,  perhaps,  sing  one  section  on  each  Sabbath  ? 
Come  and  hear!  A  Boraitha  teaches:  During  the  time  that  the 
first  choir  of  (Levites  who  sang  at  the  time  of  the  additional 
sacrifice)  sang  their  sections  once,  the  second  choir  (that  sang  at 
that  time  of  the  afternoon  sacrifice)  had  sung  theirs  twice ;  from 
this  we  may  deduce  that  they  sang  but  one  section  on  each 
Sabbath. 

R.  Jehudah  b.  Idi  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Jo'hanan:  Accord- 
ing to  the  rabbinical  explanation  of  certain  scriptural  passages 
the  Shekhinah  made  ten  journeys,  and  according  to  tradition  a 
corresponding  number  of  times  was  the  Sanhedrin  exiled,  viz. : 
from  the  cell  of  Gazith  (in  the  Temple)  to  the  market-place, 


*i.-vii.;    viii.-xiii.;    xiv.-xix.;   xx.-xxvii.;   xxviii.-xxxvi. ;   xxxvii.-xHv.     These 
passages  are  called  Ilazyv  Lakh  because  the  initial  letters  are  11,  Z,  Y,  V,  L,  KH. 


"NEW    YEAR."  65 

from  the  market-place  to  Jerusalem,  from  Jerusalem  to  Yamnia, 
from  Yamnia  to  Usha,  from  Usha  (back  again)  to  Yamnia,  from 
Yamnia  (back  again)  to  Usha,  from  Usha  to  Shapram,  from 
Shapram  to  Beth  Shearim,  from  Beth  Shearim  to  Sepphoris, 
from  Sepphoris  to  Tiberias,  and  Tiberias  was  the  saddest  of 
them  all,  as  it  is  written  [Is.  xxix.]:  "  And  thou  shalt  be  low, 
and  shalt  speak  out  of  the  earth." 

R.  Elazar  says  they  were  exiled  six  times,  as  it  is  written  [Is. 
xxvi.  5]:  "  For  he  bringeth  down  them  that  dwell  on  high;  the 
lofty  city  he  layeth  low;  he  layeth  it  low  even  to  the  ground; 
he  bringeth  it  even  to  the  dust."  Says  R.  Jo'hanan:  And 
thence  (from  the  dust)  they  will  in  future  be  redeemed,  as  it  is 
written  [Is.  Hi.  2]  :  "  Shake  thyself  from  the  dust;  arise,  and  sit 
down,"  etc. 

MISHNA:  R.  Joshua  b.  Kar'ha  said:  This  also  did  R. 
Jo'hanan  b.  Zakkai  ordain  :  That  it  mattered  not  where  the  chief 
of  the  Beth  Din  might  be,  the  witnesses  need  only  go  to  the 
meeting-place  (of  the  Beth  Din). 

GEMARA :  A  certain  woman  was  summoned  for  judgment 
before  Ameimar  in  Neherdai.  Ameimar  went  away  to  Me'huzza, 
but  she  did  not  follow  him,  and  he  wrote  a  letter  to  put  her  in 
the  ban.  Said  R.  Ashi  to  Ameimar:  "  Have  we  not  learned  that 
it  mattered  not  where  the  chief  of  the  Beth  Din  might  be,  the 
witnesses  need  only  go  to  the  meeting  place  (of  the  Beth  Din)  ?  " 
Answered  Ameimar:  "That  is  true  in  respect  to  evidence  for 
the  new  moon;  but  with  regard  to  my  action,  in  which  case  she 
has  been  summoned  for  debt,  '  The  borrower  is  servant  to  the 
lender, 'and  she  must  come  to  the  place  where  the  chief  court 
is  "  [Prov.  xxii.  7]. 

The  rabbis  taught :  Priests  may  not  ascend  the  platform  in 
sandals  to  bless  the  people;  and  this  is  one  of  the  nine  ordi- 
nances instituted  by  R.  Jo'hanan  b.  Zakkai ;  six  are  to  be  found 
in  this  chapter,  one  in  the  first  chapter ;  another  one  is,  if  one 
become  a  proselyte  nowadays,  he  must  pay  a  quarter  of  a  shekel 
for  a  sacrifice  of  a  bird  (so  that  if  the  Temple  should  be  rebuilt 
the  authorities  would  have  a  contribution  from  him  towards  the 
daily  sacrifices).  R.  Simon  b.  Elazar,  however,  said  that  R. 
Jo'hanan  had  already  withdrawn  this  regulation  and  annulled 
it,  because  it  easily  led  to  the  sin  (of  using  the  money  for 
different  purposes).  And  what  is  the  ninth  (ordinance  of  R. 
Jo'hanan)  ?  R.  Papa  and  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak  dispute  about 
this.  R.  Papa  says  it  was  with  regard  to  a  vineyard  of  the 
5 


66  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

fourth  year's  crop;  but  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak  says  it  was 
with  regard  to  the  crimson-colored  strap  (displayed  on  the  Day 
of  Atonement  (on  the  scapegoat). 

MISHNA:  The  order  of  the  benedictions  (to  be  said  on  New 
Year  is  as  follows):  The  blessings  referring  to  the  patriarchs 
(Abhoth),  to  the  mighty  power  of  God  (Gebhuroth),  and  the 
sanctification  of  the  Holy  name;  to  these  he  adds  the  selection 
in  which  God  is  proclaimed  King  (Malkhioth),  after  which  he 
does  not  sound  the  cornet;  then  the  blessing  referring  to  the 
sanctification  of  the  day,  after  which  the  cornet  is  sounded; 
then  the  biblical  selections  referring  to  God's  remembrance  of 
His  creatures  (Zikhronoth),  after  which  the  cornet  is  again 
sounded ;  then  the  biblical  selections  referring  to  the  sounding 
of  the  cornet  (Shophroth),  after  which  the  cornet  is  again 
sounded ;  he  then  recites  the  blessings  referring  to  the  restora- 
tion of  the  Temple,  the  adoration  of  God,  and  the  benediction 
of  the  priests.  So  is  the  decree  of  R.  Jo'hanan  b.  Nouri.  Said 
R.  Aqiba  to  him:  If  the  cornet  is  not  to  be  sounded  after  the 
Malkhioth,  why  are  they  mentioned  ?  But  the  proper  order  is 
the  following:  The  blessings  referring  to  the  patriarchs  (Abhoth), 
to  the  mighty  power  of  God  (Gebhuroth),  and  the  sanctification 
of  the  Holy  name;  to  this  last  the  biblical  selections  referring 
to  the  proclamation  of  God  as  King  (Malkhioth)  are  joined,  and 
then  he  sounds  the  cornet ;  then  the  biblical  selections  referring 
to  God's  remembrance  of  His  creatures  (Zikhronoth),  and  he 
then  sounds  the  cornet;  then  the  biblical  selections  referring  to 
the  sounding  of  the  cornet  (Shophroth),  and  he  again  sounds  the 
cornet ;  then  he  says  the  blessings  referring  to  the  restoration  of 
the  Temple,  the  adoration  of  God,  and  the  priestly  benedictions. 

GEMARA :  The  rabbis  taught :  Whence  do  we  know  that 
we  should  recite  the  Malkhioth,  Zikhronoth,  and  Shophroth? 
Said  R.  Eliezer :  From  the  passage  [Lev,  xxiii.  24]  in  which  it  is 
written:  "Ye  shall  have  a  Sabbathon,  a  memorial  of  blowing 
cornets,  a  holy  convocation,"  the  word  "  Sabbathon  "  refers  to 
the  consecration  of  the  day  ;  "  a  memorial  "  refers  to  the  Zikhro- 
noth ;  "  blowing  of  cornets "  refers  to  the  Shophroth ;  "  a  holy 
convocation  "  means  the  hallowing  of  the  day  in  order  to  pro- 
hibit servile  work.  Said  R.  Aqiba  to  him  :  Why  is  not  the  word 
"  Sabbathon  "  construed  to  mean  the  prohibition  of  servile  work, 
since  the  passage  (quoted  above)  begins  with  that  ?  Therefore, 
let  the  passage  be  interpreted  thus:  "Sabbathon"  means  the 
hallowing  of  the  day  and  the  prohibition  of  servile  work;  "me- 


"NEW   YEAR."  67 

morial  "  refers  to  the  Zikhronoth  ;  "  blowing  of  the  cornets  "  re- 
fers to  the  Shophroth ;  "a  holy  convocation"  means  the  conse- 
cration of  the  day. 

Whence  do  we  know  that  we  should  recite  the  Malkhioth  ? 
From  the  following  Boraitha  :  Rabbi  said  :  The  words,  "  I  am  the 
Lord  your  God  "  ;  and  "  in  the  seven  month  "  (stand  together) 
[Lev.  xxiii.  22,  24],  which  may  be  interpreted  to  refer  to  the  pro- 
clamation of  God  as  King.  R.  Jose  b.  R.  Jehudah  says  it  is  not 
necessary  to  cite  this  passage ;  for  it  is  written  [Numb.  x.  10] 
"  that  they  may  be  to  you  for  a  memorial  before  your  God :  I 
am  the  Lord  your  God."  These  concluding  words  "  I  am  the 
Lord  your  God "  are  entirely  superfluous,  but  since  they  are 
used,  of  what  import  are  they  ?  They  form  a  general  rule,  that 
in  every  selection  in  which  (God's)  remembrance  of  His  creatures 
is  mentioned  there  should  also  be  found  the  thought  that  He  is 
the  King  of  the  Universe. 

MISHNA :  Not  less  than  ten  scriptural  passages  should  be 
used  for  the  Malkhioth,  ten  for  the  Zikhronoth,  and  ten  for  the 
Shophroth.  R.  Jo'hanan  b.  Nouri  says :  If  by  three  of  each 
class,  one  will  have  done  his  duty. 

GEMARA :  To  what  do  the  ten  scriptural  passages  used  for 
the  Malkhioth  correspond  ?  Answered  Rabbi :  To  the  ten  ex- 
pressions of  praise  used  by  David  in  the  Psalms.  But  there  are 
more  expressions  of  praise  found?  Only  those  are  meant,  in 
conjunction  with  which  it  is  written  "  praise  him  with  the  sound 
of  the  cornet  "  [Psalm  ci.  3].  R.  Joseph  says  :  "  They  correspond 
to  the  ten  commandments  that  were  proclaimed  to  Moses  on 
Sinai."  R.  Jo'hanan  said,  they  correspond  to  the  ten  words  with 
which  the  universe  was  created. 

"  By  three  of  each  class,  one  will  have  done  his  duty"  The 
schoolmen  asked  :  "  Does  he  mean  three  from  the  Pentateuch, 
three  from  the  Prophets,  and  three  from  the  Hagiographa,  which 
would  make  nine,  and  they  differ  about  one  (passage)  ?  or  per- 
haps one  from  the  Pentateuch  and  one  from  the  Prophets  and 
one  from  the  Hagiographa,  which  would  make  three,  and  they 
differ  about  many  passages  ?  "  Come  and  hear  !  We  have  learned 
in  a  Boraitha :  Not  less  than  ten  scriptural  passages  should  be 
used  for  the  Malkhioth,  ten  for  the  Zikhronoth,  and  ten  for  the 
Shophroth  ;  but  if  seven  of  them  all  were  recited,  corresponding 
to  the  seven  heavens,  the  duty  has  been  fulfilled.  R.  Johanan 
ben  Nouri  remarked  :  He  that  recites  less  (than  ten  of  each)  should 
not,  however,  recite  less  than  seven ;  but  if  he  recited  but  three, 


68  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

corresponding  to  the  Pentateuch,  Prophets,  and  Hagiographa, 
according  to  others  corresponding  to  the  Priests,  Levites,  and 
Israelites,  it  is  sufficient.  Said  R.  Huna  in  the  name  of  Samuel : 
The  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Jo'hanan  b.  Nouri. 

MISHNA:  We  do  not  cite  scriptural  passages  for  the  above 
three  series  that  contain  predictions  of  punishment.  The  pas- 
sages from  the  Pentateuch  are  to  be  recited  first,  and  those  from 
the  Prophets  last.  R.  Jose,  however,  says  "  if  the  concluding 
passage  is  from  the  Pentateuch  one  has  also  done  his  duty." 

GEMARA :  Passages,  proclaiming  the  kingdom  of  God  that 
should  not  be  used  (because  of  the  above),  are  such  as  the  fol- 
lowing [Ezekiel,  xx.  33]  :  "  As  I  live,  saith  the  Lord  God,  surely 
with  a  mighty  hand,  and  with  a  stretched  out  arm,  and  with  fury 
poured  out,  I  will  rule  over  you,"  and  although  as  R.  Na'hman 
says  (of  this  passage) :  Let  Him  be  angry  with  us,  but  let  Him 
take  us  out  of  captivity,  still,  since  it  refers  to  anger,  we  should 
not  mention  "  anger  "  at  the  beginning  of  the  year.  An  example 
of  the  same  idea  being  found  in  conjunction  with  the  Zikhronoth 
is  to  be  read  in  [Ps.  Ixxviii.  39],  "  For  he  remembered  they  were 
but  flesh ; "  in  conjunction  with  the  Shophroth  an  example  is 
found  in  Hosea,  v.  8  :  "  Blow  ye  the  cornet  in  Gibeah,"  etc. 

We  must  not  mention  the  remembrance  of  the  individual  (in 
the  Zikhronoth)  even  if  the  passage  speaks  of  pleasant  things,  as, 
for  example  [Ps.  cvi.  4],  "  Remember  me,  O  Lord,  with  the  favor 
that  thou  bearest  unto  thy  people."  However,  passages  that 
contain  the  expression  of  "visiting"  may  be  used  in  the 
Zikhronoth,  e.g.,  "And  the  Lord  visited  Sarah"  [Gen.  xxi.  i] 
or  "I  have  surely  visited  you"  [Ex.  iii.  16],  so  says  R.  Jose; 
but  R.  Jehudah  says,  they  may  not.  But  even  if  we  agree  to 
what  R.  Jose  says  (shall  we  say  that)  the  passage  "  and  the  Lord 
visited  Sarah  "  speaks  of  an  individual  (and  therefore  it  should 
not  be  used)  ?  Nay ;  since  many  descended  from  her,  she  is  re- 
garded as  many  and  therefore  that  passage,  though  speaking  of 
one  only,  is  regarded  as  though  it  spoke  of  many. 

(In  the  Malkhioth,  they  used  Ps.  xxiv.  7-10,  which  is  divided 
into  two  parts.)  The  first  part  can  be  used  as  two  of  the  re- 
quired passages,  and  the  second  as  three,  so  said  R.  Jose ;  but  R. 
Jehudah  said :  The  first  part  can  be  used  only  for  one,  and  the 
second  for  two.*  So  too  [Ps.  xlvii.  7,  8],  "  Sing  praises  to  God, 
sing  praises,  sing  praises  to  our  king,  sing  praises ;  for  God  is  the 


He  excludes  the  two  interrogative  sentences,  "  Who  is  the  king  of  glory  ?  " 


"NEW   YEAR."  69 

King  of  all  the  earth."  R.  Jose  said  :  This  may  be  used  for  two 
of  the  Malkhioth ;  but  R.  Jehudah  said :  "  It  is  to  be  reckoned 
as  one  only."  (He  rejects  one,  because  the  words  "  our  king," 
referring  to  one  people  only,  was  not  a  sufficiently  broad 
expression  of  praise  for  Him  who  is  the  King  of  the  uni- 
verse.) Both,  however,  agree  that  the  next  verse  of  the  same 
Psalm,  "  God  is  King  over  the  nations ;  God  sitteth  upon 
the  throne  of  his  holiness,"  is  to  be  used  for  one  only.  A 
passage  containing  a  reference  to  God's  remembrance  of  His 
creatures  and  also  to  the  cornet,  as  for  instance  [Lev.  xxiii.  24], 
"  Ye  shall  have  a  Sabbath,  a  memorial  of  blowing  of  cornets," 
may  be  used  in  the  Zikhronoth  and  the  Shophroth ;  so  said  R. 
Jose  ;  but  R.  Jehudah  said  :  It  can  only  be  used  in  the  Zikhro- 
noth. A  passage  in  which  God  is  proclaimed  King,  contain- 
ing also  a  reference  to  the  cornet,  as  for  instance  [Numb,  xxiii. 
21],  "The  Lord  his  God  is  with  him,  and  the  shout  {TeruatK)  of 
a  king  is  among  them,"  may  be  used  in  the  Malkhioth  and  in 
the  Shophroth,  said  R.  Jose ;  but  R.  Jehudah  said  :  It  may  only 
be  used  in  the  Malkhioth.  A  passage  containing  a  reference  to 
the  cornet,  and  nothing  else,  as  for  instance  [Numb.  xxix.  i],  "  It 
is  a  day  of  blowing  the  cornet,"  may  be  used  for  the  Shophroth, 
so  said  R.  Jose;  R.  Jehudah,  however,  said:  Must  not  be  used 
at  all. 

"  The  passages  from  the  Pentateuch  are  to  be  recited  first  and 
those  from  the  Prophets  last."  R.  Jose  said  :  "  We  should  con- 
clude with  a  passage  from  the  Pentateuch,  but  if  one  con- 
cluded with  a  passage  from  the  Prophets,  one  has  done  his  duty." 
We  have  also  learned :  R.  Elazar  bar  R.  Jose  says :  "  The  Va- 
thiqin  *  used  to  conclude  with  a  passage  from  the  Pentateuch.  It 
is  correct  as  far  as  Zikhronoth  and  Shophroth  are  concerned,  for 
there  are  many  such  passages ;  but  as  for  the  Malkhioth  there 
are  but  three  in  the  Pentateuch,  viz.:  "  The  Lord  his  God  is  with 
him,  and  the  shout  of  a  King  is  among  them  "  [Numb,  xxiii.  21]  ; 
"  And  he  was  king  in  Yeshurun  "  [Deut.  xxxiii.  5]  ;  and  "  The 
Lord  shall  reign  forever"  [Ex.  xv.  18],  but  we  require  ten  and 
there  are  not  so  many?  Said  R.  Huna :  We  have  learned  that, 
according  to  R.  Jose,  the  passage,  "  Hear,  O  Israel,  the  Lord  our 
God  is  one  "  [Deut.  vi.  4],  may  be  considered  as  Malkhioth,  but 
R.  Jehudah  said,  it  may  not ;  so  also  they  differ  with  regard  to 
the  passages,  "  Know,  therefore,  this  day,  and  consider  it  in  thine 

*  A  sect  similar  to  Hasidim. 


-o  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

heart,  that  the  Lord,  he  is  God  ;  there  is  none  else  "  [Deut.  iv.  39], 
and  "  Unto  thee  it  was  shewed,  that  thou  mightest  know  that 
the  Lord,  he  is  God ;  there  is  none  else  beside  him  "  [Deut.  iv. 
35].  According  to  the  one  they  are  considered  Malkhioth,  but 
according  to  the  other  not. 

MISHNA:  The  second  of  those  who  act  as  ministers  of  the 
congregation  on  the  feast  of  New  Year  shall  cause  another  to 
sound  the  cornet ;  on  days  when  the  Hallel  (Service  of  Praise, 
Ps.  cxiii.-cxviii.)  is  read,  the  first  (minister)  must  read  it.  In  order 
to  sound  the  cornet  on  New  Year's  Day  it  is  not  permitted  to  go 
beyond  the  Sabbath  limit,  to  remove  a  heap  of  stones,  to  ascend 
a  tree,  to  ride  on  an  animal,  to  swim  over  the  waters,  nor  to  cut 
it  (the  cornet)  with  anything  prohibited  either  by  the  (Rabbinical) 
laws  against  servile  work  or  by  a  Biblical  negative  command- 
ment; but  if  one  wishes  to  put  water  or  wine  in  a  cornet  (to 
cleanse  it)  he  is  allowed  to.  Children  must  not  be  prevented  from 
sounding  the  cornet,  but  on  the  contrary  we  are  permitted  to 
occupy  ourselves  with  teaching  them  until  they  learn  to  sound 
it ;  but  one  who  thus  teaches,  as  also  others  who  listen  to  sounds 
thus  produced,  do  not  thereby  fulfil  their  duty. 

GEMARA:  What  is  the  reason  of  the  above  prohibitions? 
Because  the  sounding  of  the  cornet  is  a  positive  commandment ; 
now,  the  observance  of  a  festival  involves  both  positive  and  nega- 
tive commandments,  and  the  one  positive  cannot  supersede  two 
(negative  and  positive.) 

"  Children  must  not  be  prevented  from  sounding  the  cornet'''  etc. 
But  women  are  to  be  prevented  ?  Have  we  not  learned  in  a  Bo- 
raitha:  Neither  women  nor  children  may  be  prevented  from  sound- 
ing the  cornet  on  the  New  Year's  Day  ?  Said  Abayi ;  "  It  presents 
no  difficulty,  the  one  is  according  to  R.  Jehudah  and  the  other  is 
according  to  R.  Jose  and  R.  Simeon,  who  say  that  as  women  are 
permitted  (in  the  case  of  sacrifices)  to  lay  their  hands  on  the 
animals,  so  here,  if  they  desire  to  sound  the  cornet,  they  may. 

'' Until  they  learn''  Said  R.  Elazar:  Even  on  the  Sabbath; 
so  also  we  have  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha :  We  are  per- 
mitted to  occupy  ourselves  with  teaching  (children)  until  they 
learn  (to  sound  the  cornet)  even  on  the  Sabbath :  (and  if  we  do 
not  prevent  them  doing  this  on  the  Sabbath)  how  much  less  do 
we,  on  the  feast  (of  New  Year).  Our  Mishna  says,  "  We  do  not 
prevent  them  "  (from  this  we  may  infer  that  we  do  not  start  to 
tell  to  a  child  :  Go  and  sound  the  cornet)  ?  It  presents  no  dif- 
ficulty :  a  child  already  initiated  in  the  performance  of  religious 


"NEW   YEAR."  71 

duties  may  be  told  also :  Go  and  sound !  but  not  a  child  not  yet 
initiated  ;  however,  we  do  not  prevent  him. 

MISHNA :  The  order  of  sounding  the  cornet  is  three  times 
three.  The  length  of  a  Teqia  is  equal  to  that  of  three  Teruoth, 
and  that  of  each  Terua  as  three  moans  (Yababhoth).  If  a  per- 
son sounded  a  Teqia  and  prolonged  it  equal  to  two,  it  is  only 
reckoned  as  one  Teqia.*  He  who  has  just  finished  reading  the 
benedictions  (in  the  additional  service  for  the  New  Year)  and  only 
at  that  time  obtained  a  cornet,  should  then  blow  on  the  cornet 
the  three  sounds  three  times.  As  the  Reader  of  the  congregation 
is  in  duty  bound  (to  sound  the  cornet)  so  too  is  each  individual;  R. 
Gamaliel,  however,  said  the  Reader  can  act  for  the  congregation. 

GEMARA :  But  have  we  learned  in  a  Boraitha,  that  the 
length  of  a  Teqia  is  the  same  as  that  of  a  Terua  ?  Said  Abayi : 
The  Tana  of  our  Mishna  speaks  of  the  three  series,  and  means  that 
the  length  of  all  the  Teqioth  is  the  same  as  that  of  all  the  Teruoth. 
But  the  Tana  of  the  Boraitha  speaks  of  only  one  series  and  says 
that  one  Teqia  is  equal  to  one  Terua  (which  is  the  same  thing). 

"Each  Terua  is  {as  long  as)  three  moans."  But  we  have 
learned  in  a  Boraitha,  a  Terua  is  as  long  as  three  broken  (staccato) 
tones  (Shebarim).  Said  Abayi :  About  this  they  do  indeed 
differ,  for  it  is  written  [Numb.  xxix.  i],  "  It  is  a  day  of  blowing 
the  cornet,"  which  in  the  (Aramaic)  translation  of  the  Pentateuch 
is,  "  It  is  a  day  of  sounding  the  alarm  (Yababa).  Now  it  is  writ- 
ten concerning  the  mother  of  Sisera  [Judg.  v.  28],  "  The  mother 
of  Sisera  ....  moaned  "  (Vat'yabeb)  ;  this  word,  one  explains 
to  mean  a  protracted  groan,  and  another  to  mean  a  short  wail. 

The  Rabbis  taught :  Whence  do  we  know  (that  one  must 
sound)  with  a  cornet?  From  the  passage  [Lev.  xxv.  9],  "Thou 
s\i2Xt  cdMSC  the  cornet  ....  to  sound,  etc."  Whence  do  we  know 
that  (after  the  Terua)  there  should  be  one  Teqia  ?  Therefore  it 
is  said  (later  in  the  same  verse),  "Ye  shall  make  the  cornet 
sound."  f  But  perhaps  this  only  refers  to  the  Jubilee  ?  Whence 
do  we  know  that  it  refers  also  to  New  Year's  Day  ?  Therefore  it 
is  written  (in  the  same  verse)  "  in  the  seventh  month."     These 


*  The  cornet  is  sounded  three  times,  corresponding  to  the  Malkhioth,  Zikhronoth, 
and  Shophroth.  The  order  of  the  sounds  is  Teqia,  Terua,  Teqia  ;  Teqia,  Terua, 
Teqia,  etc.  The  case  here  supposed  is  that  the  one  who  sounded  the  cornet  sustained 
the  second  Teqia  as  long  as  two  Teqioth,  intending  thereby  to  sound  the  second  and 
third  Teqioth.     This,  we  see,  is  not  permitted. 

f  The  Hebrew  words  Utheqatem  Terua  are  interpreted  to  mean  that  first  a 
Teqia  should  be  sounded,  and  then  a  Terua. 


72 


THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 


words  are  superfluous ;  for  what  purpose  then  does  the  Torah  use 
them?  To  teach  us  that  all  the  sounds  of  the  cornet  during  the 
seventh  month  should  be  like  each  other.  Whence  do  we  know 
that  the  sounds  are  to  be  three  times  three?  From  the  three 
passages,  ''Thou  shalt  cause  the  cornet  ...  to  sound"  [Lev. 
XXV.  9];  "A  Sabbath  a  memorial  of  blowing  of  cornets"  [Lev. 
xxiii.  24]  ;  "  It  is  a  day  of  blowing  the  cornet  "  [Numb.  xxix.  i]. 
But  the  Tana  of  the  following  Boraitha  deduces  it  by  analogy  of 
expression  from  (the  rules  given  in)  the  wilderness  [Numb.  x.  i-io]. 
As  we  have  learned,  the  words  "  When  ye  sound  an  alarm " 
[Numb.  X.  5]  mean  one  Teqia  and  one  Terua.  Whence  do  we 
know  that  they  shall  be  separated,  perhaps  it  means  that  both 
together  should  be  sounded  ?  Since  it  is  written  [ibid.  7]  :  "  But 
when  the  congregation  is  to  be  gathered  together,  ye  shall  blow 
but  ye  shall  not  sound  an  alarm,"  we  may  infer  that  they  must 
be  separated,  a  Teqia  by  itself,  and  a  Terua  by  itself.  But  whence 
do  we  know  that  there  should  be  one  Teqia  before  the  Terua  ? 
From  the  words  [ibid.  5]  :  "  When  ye  sound  an  alarm  "  {i.e.,  first 
a  "  sound,"  or  Teqia,  and  then  an  "  alarm,"  or  Terua).  And 
whence  do  we  know  that  there  should  be  one  after  the  Terua  ? 
From  the  words  [ibid.  6]  :  "  An  alarm  shall  they  sound  !  "  R. 
Ishmael,  the  son  of  R.  Jo'hanan  bar  Berokah,  however,  says  :  It  is 
not  necessary,  as  it  is  written :  "  When  ye  sound  an  alarm  the 
second  time  "  [ibid.  6].  The  words  "  a  second  time  "  are  unneces- 
sary, and  to  what  purpose  are  they  used  ?  To  form  a  general  rule 
that  on  every  occasion  on  which  "alarm"  (Terua)  is  mentioned, 
a  sound  (Teqia)  must  be  used  with  it  as  a  second  (or  following) 
tone.  Possibly  all  this  only  refers  to  the  practices  followed  in 
the  wilderness,  but  how  do  we  know  that  they  refer  to  New  Year's 
Day  also  ?  Therefore  it  is  written  :  Terua  twice  to  make  us  infer 
by  an  analogy  of  expression,  and  as  concerning  the  New  Year 
Terua  is  written  thrice  in  the  three  passages,  [Lev.  xxiii.  24]  : 
"  A  sabbath,  a  memorial  of  cornets  "  ;  [Numb.  xxix.  i]  :  "  It  is  a 
day  of  blowing  of  cornets " ;  and  [Lev.  xxv.  9]  :  "  Thou  shalt 
cause  the  cornet  ...  to  sound  " ;  and  for  each  Terua  there  are 
two  Teqioth,  we  therefore  learn  that  on  New  Year's  Day  must 
be  sounded  three  Teruoth  and  six  Tekioth. 

R.  Abbahu  enacted  in  Caesarea  that  the  order  should  be  first 
a  Teqia*  then  three  single  staccato  sounds,  or  Shebharim,  then  a 


*  The  Teqia  is  a  long  tone  produced  by  sounding  the  cornet.      The  Terua  is  a 
long  tremulous  sound.     The  Shebharim  consists  of  three  short  staccato  sounds. 


"NEW   YEAR."  73 

Terua  and  then  again  a  Teqia.  At  all  events  it  is  not  right :  If 
by  Terua  is  meant  "  a  protracted  groan  "  then  he  should  have 
instituted  the  order  to  be  a  Teqia,  a  Terua,  and  then  a  Teqia ;  and 
if  it  means  "  a  short  wail,"  then  he  should  have  instituted  the 
order  to  be,  a  Teqia,  then  Shebharim  (three  single  broken  sounds). 
and  then  again  a  Teqia  ?  He  was  in  doubt  whether  it  meant  one 
or  the  other  (and  therefore  he  enacted  that  both  should  be 
sounded). 

*'■  If  a  person  sounded  a  teqia  and  prolonged  it  equal  to  two," 
etc.  R.  Jo'hanan  says :  If  one  heard  the  nine  sounds  at  nine 
different  hours  during  the  day,  he  has  fulfilled  his  duty.  The 
same  we  have  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha :  "  If  one 
heard  the  nine  sounds  at  nine  different  hours  of  the  day  it  is 
sufficient,  and  if  he  heard  from  nine  men  at  one  time,  a  Teqia 
from  one  and  a  Terua  from  another,  etc.,  he  has  also  done  his 
duty,  even  if  he  heard  them  intermittently,  and  even  during  the 
whole  day  or  any  part  of  the  day."  The  rabbis  taught :  (Gen- 
erally) the  soundings  of  the  cornet  do  not  prevent  each  other 
(if  one  can  blow  a  Teqia,  but  not  a  Terua,  or  pronounce  one 
benediction  and  not  another,  it  might  be  said  he  should  not  blow 
or  pronounce  any  benediction  at  all.  We  are  taught  that  the 
one  does  not  prevent  the  other  on  the  fasts  of  the  congregation 
and  other  occasions  when  these  are  needed),  nor  do  the  bene- 
dictions ;  but  on  New  Year's  Day  and  the  Day  of  Atonement 
they  do. 

*^  He  who  has  just  finished  reading  {the  additional  service) 
and  only  at  that  time  obtained  a  cornet  shall  sound  on  the 
cornet  the  three  sounds  three  times."  This  means,  only  when 
he  did  not  have  a  cornet  at  the  beginning  (of  the  service) :  but  if 
he  had  one  at  the  beginning  of  the  service  when  the  sounds  of 
the  cornet  are  heard,  they  must  be  heard  in  the  order  of  the 
benedictions  of  the  day. 

R.  Papa  bar  Samuel  rose  to  recite  his  prayers.  Said  he  to 
his  attendant,  When  I  nod  to  you  sound  (the  cornet)  for  me. 
Rabha  said  to  him:  "This  may  only  be  one  in  the  congrega- 
tion." We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha  in  support  of  this  :  "  When 
one  hears  these  sounds,  he  should  hear  them  both  in  their  order 
and  in  the  order  of  the  benedictions  (in  the  additional  service  of 
the  New  Year)."  This  only  applies  to  a  congregation,  but  one 
should  hear  them  in  the  order  of  the  benedictions  only,  if  he  is 
not  in  a  congregation ;  and  a  private  individual  who  has  not 
sounded  the  cornet  (or  heard  it  sounded)  can  have  a  friend  sound 


74  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

it  for  him  ;  but  a  private  individual  who  has  not  recited  the  bene- 
dictions cannot  have  a  friend  say  them  for  him ;  and  the  duty  to 
hear  the  cornet  sounded  is  greater  than  that  of  reciting  the  bless- 
ings. How  so  ?  If  there  be  two  cities  (to  which  a  person  may 
go)  and  in  one  city  they  are  about  to  sound  the  cornet  and  in 
the  other  to  recite  the  benedictions,  he  should  go  to  the  city  in 
which  they  are  about  to  sound  the  cornet ;  and  not  to  that  in 
which  they  are  about  to  recite  the  benedictions.  Is  this  not  self- 
evident,  because  the  sounding  is  Biblical  and  the  benedictions 
are  only  Rabbinical  ?  The  case  is  when  the  reciting  of  the  bene- 
dictions in  one  city  was  certain  ;  sounding  the  cornet  in  the  other 
city  was  doubtful.  He  must  nevertheless  go  to  the  city  where 
they  are  about  to  sound  the  cornet. 

''Just  as  the  reader  of  the  congregation  is  in  duty  bou?td  {to 
sound  the  cornet)  so  too  is  each  individual.*'  We  have  learned 
in  a  Boraitha :  The  schoolmen  said  to  R.  Gamaliel,  Why  accord- 
ing to  thy  opinion  should  the  congregation  pray  ?  Answered  he : 
In  order  to  enable  the  Reader  of  the  congregation  to  arrange  his 
prayer.  Said  R.  Gamaliel  to  them :  "  But  why,  according  to 
your  opinion,  should  the  Reader  act  for  the  congregation?" 
Answered  they  :  "  In  order  to  enable  those  who  are  not  expert 
to  fulfil  their  duty."  And  he  rejoined :  "  Just  as  he  en- 
ables the  illiterate,  so  too  he  causes  the  literate  to  fulfil  their 
duty."  Rabba  bar  bar  'Hana  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Jo'hanan  : 
The  sages  later  accepted  the  opinion  of  R.  Gamaliel ;  but  Rabh 
said  there  is  still  a  difference  between  them ;  could  (the  same) 
R.  Jo'hanan  say  this?  Did  not  R.  'Hana  of  Sepphoris  say  in 
the  name  of  R.  Jo'hanan  :  "  The  Halakha  prevails  according  to 
R.  Gamaliel ; "  from  these  words  ("  the  Halakha  prevails  accord- 
ing to  R.  Gamaliel ")  we  see  that  there  must  have  been  some 
that  differed  from  him  !  Said  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak  :  "  By  the 
words,  ''  the  sages  accept  the  opinion  of  R.  Gamaliel,"  R.  Meir  is 
meant,  and  the  rule  arrived  at  through  those  who  differed  from 
him  (was  arrived  at)  through  other  rabbis ;  for  we  have  learned 
in  the  following  Boraitha  :  R.  Meir  holds  that  with  regard  to  the 
benedictions  of  New  Year's  Day  and  the  Day  of  Atonement,  the 
Reader  can  act  for  the  congregation  ;  but  the  sages  say  :  "  Just 
as  the  Reader  is  in  duty  bound,  so  too  is  each  individual."  Why 
only  for  these  benedictions  (and  no  other)  ?  Shall  we  assume 
it  is  because  of  the  many  Biblical  selections  used  ?  Does  not  R. 
'Hananel  say  in  the  name  of  Rabh  :  As  soon  as  one  has  said  (the 
passages  beginning  with)  the  words,  "  And  in  thy  law  it  is  writ- 


"NEW   YEAR."  75 

ten,"  he  need  say  no  more?  It  is  because  there  are  many  (more 
and  longer)  benedictions  (than  usual). 

It  was  taught,  R.  Jehoshua  ben  Levi  said :  Both  the  private 
individual  and  the  congregation  as  soon  as  they  say  (the  passages 
beginning)  with  the  words,  "And  in  thy  law  it  is  written,"  need 
say  no  more. 

R.  Elazar  says :  A  man  should  always  first  prepare  himself  for 
prayer  and  then  pray.  R.  Abba  said  :  "  The  remarks  of  R. 
Elazar  seem  to  apply  to  the  benedictions  of  New  Year's  Day 
and  the  Day  of  Atonement,  and  to  the  various  holidays,  but  not 
to  the  whole  year."  It  is  not  so  ;  for  did  not  R.  Jehudah  pre. 
pare  himself  (even  on  a  week  day)  before  his  prayers  and  then 
offer  them  ?  R.  Jehudah  was  an  exception,  for  since  he  prayed 
only  once  in  thirty  days,  it  was  like  a  Holiday.  When  Rabbin 
came  (from  Palestine)  he  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Jacob  bar  Idi 
quoting  R.  Simeon  the  Pious :  R.  Gamaliel  did  not  excuse  from 
public  service  any  but  field-laborers !  What  is  the  difference 
(between  them  and  others)  ?  They  would  be  forced  to  lose  their 
work  (if  they  went  to  a  synagogue),  but  people  in  a  city  must  go 
(to  the  House  of  Prayer). 

END  OF  TRACT  "NEW  YEAR  ' 


'^h^^  niD^^n 


nvnn  nieij'n  ^r  nmpjn  ""jooa  poji  -iidj  ,Bnn»  pin 


n«D 


♦]KDrpni<i  ♦^  bi^yri 


mtt'^nn  ^D^B^itt   mann  riKjcina 

54  East  106th  Street. 


DDDD 


bp^ 


lomni  •'^33  mobrin  ^i"  ntrnnn  nxvim  naiynn  ,m3Dn  "TiaKbD 
nvnb  ,K'm  ns  ny  'h^d:  x^  -i:;'x  n  k'i  n  n^s^ob  'jnxnn  ,'t;*^^33x  nsB'a 
lon^  ''3  ;  ph  mon  n'^33n  K"iDjn2j>  nin3Dcn  h^  nvjB'Dn  ns  b'iqo  D3 
|miD'  ibisn  nrj^on  bsB'  'jdd  ,pn'  xb  nyio  -no  p  nxrn  nsDon  nx 
"invn  -i3T  iWp  n-'Htr  }0T3  ,13  D'-jnsn  mnyi  bs^nn  niiip  ,tj'Tip  mns 
nvjEyDn  nj?  onn^  b3x  .pinn3  p  n3yn  pipiD3  io3  ,nxnpi  n]}'''\'<  nm'b 
n^jitr  ''s  nK'aN  ••Kt^  "13"!  t3yo3  Kin  losnj  n33B'  D^cn^sn  nnx  ""d  by  i>^n 
D'lvni  non  duid  D:r3S  dki  ,D''babiQ»i  Q^aiiN  of^isi  nrrs  nr  D'trn^an  non 
•'SiD^Q  nbiT  ,mv  biQ^Q  ^30  ■'pjn  ,''Dinn3  03  lyDn^n'?  ^h^y  ab  Dvh 
'Dob  D't^'n^an  ^3  o^jpinoi  nniLJ  vn'  N?cr  no3  ly  n»K3i  .no:fy3  Kiojn 
|iJ3D3  p  ,nivp3  1D3  b"T  '•"B'-i  {^ii^a  oy  DniDni)  |aix  dik'3  bsu  i<b  ,nxTn 
I'jyb  n't33  DIB'  ^^301  ,mv  biabs  dib'  ^^3  i»ip»  by  i3i  bs  B'-iDon  ,1311^^ 
nQK'3  nnnb  |pin»i  ■iB'310  nr3  trn^Q  "iki  ;  13  pioy  Nina'  pjyn  nbiT  ins 
N^i  DQijn  iip^n  nx  nmnn  b^3>B'  nsrn  nsvin3  nx»  -ihtj  ^jki  .n^n 
.nT3  i^KB'  no  nn  n^n^  xbi  pb'dxk'  Dip03  lyvo?  ,vby  fi'dv  xbi  ujdo  yir 
n:^K>  ^3  1X3^  iJ"n  ,-ivp  m^33  nxin  n3Dt:n  nx  t'lab  ''b  Thnv  p  bya' 
nn3ib  D''B'nD  ^3  '^30  ;  nxrn  nsoob  pi  i^-'t^'ni  ,->ix'3i  k'Ii'd  nsnxn 
IX  n3bn3  n?  Siabsi  nmv  n^oj  bs  ''b3Di  ,nnnK  nin3DD3  iB'-i2n:i  ub'jb' 
.pttKn  ^nxvoi  "nyri  ,nxTn  nxvinn  ^33  '3-n  p  -icrx3  ,x"i303 
nib»3  ,n3Don  >3  nx  B'-ib!'  nn  nnW  ,x"iipn  ^nx  rb  r]r2'\ir2:> 
nb  /njiB'xin  DyD3  ibxn  nvjK'on  nx  xip'B'  xiipn  ni^  ny  ,ni33i)oi  nnvp 
pbi  ;  n'p-iD  n:iDB'  ^33  3t3^n  pnn  p:yn  nj3n  pi  nibon  -iik"'3  ib  nom 
^n^B'y  n3i  .di^ai  iix'3  Tii'n  dipd3  iv  'P3''?  pnnnn  inc3  DipD  ip  "noB' 
HB'iy  ^JXB'  1D3  xS  ,D^JVi'3  nDD^D  B'Ti^fiH  nx  "'noQnn  'b:jxn  DiJin3  dj 
'xxn  ^JB'3  D^JD3  n^jDO  ^JJHB'  ^'''B'T  B'H'Q  oy  niinx  ninDDD  biif  fDinn3 

:  xim  /nxo  tsiB'B  Dyt3D  ,n:3b 
(III) 


^D^bp^  n3D» 


mmnnn  riKi  ,D''D-i'Tn  nx  p^pnai  pD-iDn  nb^ji^n  nx  p-np  ,12  n^y 
nnspn  dk  pj-'-'z^tti  ,n^^in  o-iic  '^^  j^tnri  /O'^ssn  n'.xipx:  nsi 

♦D^K^an  b:?  nx  pxsin 

irpnn  ,D^D-i"rn  bp  pD''"?tt?X3i  p-ipij?  rn  ,m^ny  nmj?  iz-itriis 

.nbis  mtrn  bD  pn^ps;::  i.tit 

na'n:  pt  ,|D»3a  nnna  Dm«  lonrrw  ,D'bp6rn  ^Jy  py^DB'D  "nN3  nnxa  (K 
nSy  »3m  ,('d  niDU')  i^ron  opin  cin*?  nnx2  pcKin  mna  «n'i  ,ii?s:c  ,u^hpvn 
intnS  ]nn30  ,D^S^3n  byi  .nonn  nD^^3  ova  la  latron  Dpintf  nva  ,C'i2''»n'3) 
n^^JOn  nK  Y'^'\p  U  l"l33  .NiaS  anp  nynrn  ]ot  nxtn  nyatr  mtro  ,nnnyna 
j3«»*  nnj?n  any  'iso  njtyoa  dkt  lotn"?  iiiij  n'n  kSi  ,n"'a  jmp  mnsa  Sax  ,DO">33 
,nn3vh  yi^p^  niayD  nana'  nam  mepion  anya  h^a  ,nnaB'S  la'ty^n  nSi  nam  mspio 
T'ta  nm«iHip  na  dh  o  ,n'?UDn  riNnp  laT  ns  caiaa  lyn'B'  niB'oa  n^tT  *ioTn  la'sS 
"ni«M  «:»  '1  las,,  «DStm«a  npiDD  naSnn  N'n  la  itrxa  V'taa  nyen  my  nnnpS  a^n 
'oStsm^a  iioSnn  iokd  nn  B'idS  o'B'nnn  n'U'iBon  nosy  iprnts*  O'pimn  "ja  nnK  dSiki  ,'ij 
ynv  '3»K  ,  ptrKT  m»a  nunia  J3»«  ,':b'  m»a  nunijn  mson  Sao'  ,i:ioSS  nsa  nacrir.tr 
,iSpSpn3i  D'Dwn  mD»  naye*  nnn  ,n'3-nn  nx  pjpnoi  .nitrano  hkt  naia  naa»N 
iSpSpni  maimnty  ,niKipDi  maim'?  nyun  t<im  ,"nK  ny  pn  win  d'ocj  idt  na^ne^Ssai 
^3"iX  ^53  pB'W  •''inn  'jb"?  D05ty  intsS  I'jai'  jj.'o'?  /imp:?  j'an^ji  /B'Bnn  Sbj  mxipoai 
,niao  «:n  ,mtrB3  un  ,ni3ioD  'an  in"?  qoKno  i"an  K'nn  nyair  'oSa'n'a  imx  ,DU-in 
,n"\cn  fiK  VBiitn  ,nBi-iy  nhiy  remyi  ,nt3iDn  n«  vpt5*oi  /mcnpni  mann  ,|<any  jmei 
riK  pj^VIS^  '»^nn  nya  wn3«r  n'^N  ina  myi  ,ynvDn  dk  jnnuoi  ^'^:i:,'  nay  ]'ysni 
]yoS  nnapn  ns  1'3"sob'  ioin  'oStt'n'ai  ;TDa  iwavin  mo^a  iSpSpn^tr  ,nnapn 
nxoitsn  nnnv  ,Kip»  Noa  kohi  (a"'  xip'i)  K*ipo  nst  noiai  ,Dnaiyn  ona  ixata*  xS 
rpcnoD  vn  »h  iiomn  imn  nitro  ,D"'Kb3n  by  ^a  ]^ii^V)    -"'Joo  ens,,  mois'i  nxiip 

.nntsTi  n«  ipa'?  D'hSic  vn  ax  »a  ,naSa  nnana 
;D'«'?3a  nma  hS  o  w'io  o«  n'mSts'n  I'tpiy  vnB»  no  -ixaS  sa  ktiiT  "i  (3 
nvhwh  K3'  H7  nir«  h^i,,  (8  '»)  «ity  p  ^psr]  N»nB'  T'a  iponS  I'jo  noio  •a'jB'nui 
.D.-ia  nyantrnB'  ,muy  n3iy  niB^io  mtrn  ^y  ,Dn^JBb  -"mnt  n'O'n 
,niyai9on  ns  on'Sy  niirh  nunSic  nnx  n'xcij  vn  n^jD^nnc  'jsd  ,nijn^1tr  (J 
riK  iB''?n»ty  oyn  "jy  "jpn*?  ^njnoa  -nxa  nntryi  ntron  ly  manSvrn  n'O'tro  vn  o  ,iok« 
vn  13  nntryi  t^on  ]o  nxi ;  nnS  nnx  Sa  annate  ,n"iina  ainan  hpvn  'xn  Sy  nn'niyo 
ia»»»oi  ;  nn'Spts*  n«  iSptr  nS  mvi  pna»  'xaS  Spc  »vnn  n«  oc  N'son"?  cnpoa  pairv 
nH  iN»a»  jyoS  ,nn»SptJ»  i«'an  «S  IK'S  n'jK  riK  pyiS  pna  dj  jae-oS  iS'nnn  ,tfipD3 
B»3»'n  nunan  nai  .n>«tn  muoS  nnsv^*  vn  n:^naa  ui  o  ,p'3a  ins  xir'  n-Mi  Dnonn 
vrwff  »3coi  ^jopSna  nta  ntaenS  nS'Sy  in-^'d  nn  Sax  ,ni:;'^  nua-ip'?  mpy  ntrx  n^'jptra  vn 
.oiSb>  oit  ':;d  ,nnis  n'iarao  vn  xS  »3*-:'  trnpon  pra  D'B'pnn 


IV 

nbo  ^Dn  n'^^na  pipm)  T]:^r:in  na  {yncn  K-iDjntj'  d"k'3  Dipo  baa 
x!3i  11x^3  inx  nm^^Q^  Dipioa  xnojni  onxno  nvjB'ion  n:n  ,niN  baa  D31 
vnm  mpo  baa  cyoaK'  ,D'jQa  i»ipD  by  '"b^t  e'n'sa  ut^'iBx  -ny^a  pi> 
1J3V  lyob  D'jsa  imn  nx  D-btJ'Da  pni  "B'n>Q„  -iina  i6  Djn  ,ci'dv  "istk 
B'n'-a  D''an!in  ibbn  nviB'^a  niDiPo  djk'^i  bba  Nioa  pxK'  nsi  bax  ,Dnnan 
]yob  nab  nvnb  ixd  pnj  ms^an  pbi  /lonn  nx  D"'bB'nb  pi  xb^  niN^ai 

.njK'on  njia  pin 
by  iDViD  ibiai  ,nj2n  o^tayo  ,n1^<'aa  ••ba'D  D'e'iin  ^a  ,vbNO  piD 
by  d:i  r^D^B'Q'b  bxitj'"'  T'ln  ,N-iiJt3"tani  ^jio^on  ,n'DbB''n\n  t«-iojn  m'D 
^nrnx  pabpn  p^y  mx^aa  loa)  'baan  D"B'a  nm  ns  D'KVo:n  D'K'n'Bn 
Dnioai  ,ij»o  10J  iK'X  D'trnan  nx^  njj  p-in-n  ib  "Tinji  pbina  "'e'i  ma 
Nb  'a  /Dnpaon  nxo  n  d  n  trpab  nniob  aicnx  pai  dioipo  nrxa  my 
ip^cy^  DiDai  b  jn  n^B^nsn  ^aa  aosn  ijjian'  Die  cbk'o  x^xinb  nno^ 
D"'oanni  oniaba  ontj'M  ^a  ;  mv'-p  'jso  nijjunn  invB'  'K'li'aa  a"j 
n^^^nn  ,p"iNn  "'oyi  oman  ,D'aivnnbi  ^otrpax  nybao  nxra  itry  ,D"'j'aon 
by  iby  xb  ttj'x  onai  /ana  ^ao  ik  'OK'a  n^anbi  ,ei'np  ,nan  ?y  -ijn  x-ipb 
■•nana  i^a  n»  ba  njja  n  p  n  b*  DB'ai ;  ^nitrpa  ib'yr  x^  xbn  ,Dbiyb  "nyn 
p  ,nD''j  xboa  ib^ex  'naxbo  Tiaaai  niaaa  lyja  xbi  lyjj  xbi  ,na  ly  ^naiyi 
xb  nny  m  ^a  nipxi  ,nxTn  ntj'nnn  ^naxbo  njja  i"yri  naia""  ion:>  ,nipT 
^n^c'y  p  nB'xa  ^onnnji  on^nioibn  ^onnanb  ab  D'K'x  xbi  /nyib  "-a  lyaa^ 
D^n?x  "j^ya  }n  xv»b  ^i  y  ^  x  xbi  yrx  /ibx  ^oina  'jx  noxa  ^a  ,na  ny 
Dn^yja  Dnojo  ba  -itj'x  ,pixn  'oyi  ,D^aivn  nma  ^J^ya  xb  "jx  d  i  x  i 
xia^x  noi   ,Dbiya  d^xxdj  my  onioa  D^xiia  'a  ynv  jyob  pi  ,x^n  njj 

?  onbi  'b 
IXDrpnxn  '»k^»  nn^n  '•B'xin  x^hb*  "b"o")  tfima,,  nrn  'B'nab  'nxnp 
■•nnpb  ^a  ••jid'-k'X'  bab  /K'Tiao  nxr  ymo  'jjni    .b  bxava  '^  xbi  ,b  bxa^D 
n^nnK'pan  ^rx  p  onnx  naxboa  -nine  ^rxtj'  Dtra  o  ,"'3i#  ixin  >Qxyb 
■'a  loba'  xb  o  nipxi  'DK'a  B'lax  xb  'nb  nnin  ia  ,db'  ^pa  na  ^naxbo 

.K'lnn  '•B^nao  d:  'anix 
"biv^n  '^my  ,b'n  'jitx^  xin  'a  ,nna'>?  xbi  nisax  na  eiy^b  jnun  'nai 
niDbnn  mm  bnjnb  nxrn  maam  nbnjn  naxbwn  nx  iiroib  'jntyi  pnv 
.|»x  ,iB'ia'i  ixm  ^x'jB'Di  wjB'Di  ,'by  naitsn  'n  ma  noj-inbi  mnxnb 

.t"3in  ,i"N  trnna    ,p  i  »  » i  i 


Kin  nttDi  ;p3'?pn  p  p-mas  r\i2n:i  "lu^yaa  pa-'-n^sT  ,nena 
(.nptt)  ^^n  onaiK  D^aDm  n-Kia  "a-i  nan  ,p]dd  nyia  ?  pa'jp 

iipjroa  2«'n  13»m  wiatyo  nn^in  n«  ^ap>  van  loaaa  p'jn  dk  oj  ik  ,inM  m«o  nnS> 
IK  pi  D'cnirn  p)  ,vnMa  Dm»  nap  D»nMno  inn  ha  yhns  nnSin  nw  painn  wsb'  »3Ba 
THK  ha  thtts  nnSm  irtym  ipSnna  itpxa  Saw  D'onitf  none*  nya  nona  ityyoa  D»a"n 
o:'x  ja  b;'V  ,-init  mK2  latrn*  nn'a  non  n^nKnc  nyntf  v^ko  jaiai  Cicnwo  Dm>^  nap 
ODJty  Sc  kSi  nn»aK  w  Hin  nsoa  «3  »;bo  /nn'uy  nya  ySo  D'ama  dn  jiaSpa  n«a"n 
.pa'^pta  niBfi  mn  thb*  ^onya  SpiBf  Dn»aM  ihns  na  atrrri  ip'jn  tthv  fa 


••»  MK  .pu?»"7  ib^nnn  uriptiD  la^^^tt^a  .npaa  isttr*'  nirom 

Ctt?;  xb  Sax  ,Dnnmwtt  nnayi  onj  ^D^bK-ittr-'i  n^'h  ?  pwurao 

irK  2ittr  ^TT*  Sy  biptrS  V2k  b-nnntr  |iop  Sd   .D^atopi  onapi 

♦Di'^cr  •'3-n  "jsa  n^nsn  nx  p:DttrDio  pK  ,pDiB 

nnSi  onbn  "ntri  n)ois?i  T'"'«in  /baxn  kS  n\in  '^-'^d  ins  nn:o 

DK  ,D'':iopi  DinnpT  n^u;3  p:D^tttt  px  i-iaKtr  ^b  Sp  p|J^  (n 
pKi  ,in)a  p^Dpa  p«  ibp^tr  D^mDm  D-ispn  ,p'tt  pSapa  iSptt? 
,miau?Ki  mj^em  nnbi-  -a^pi  mm  •^yp^  n^^t  ^yp  (p^a)  pSapa 
ai-'ji  -n^3ttr  Ss  :  SSdh  nt  rCp-'ia  pbaptt  nn-T:i  ami  Sax) 
tt^niBtt  Kin  pi  rp-ia  ]''hnp^  px  2n^3i  iT'i  pstr  Sd  /p-'a  pbapo 
♦"irnb«S  n^3  maaS  i^Si  cab  Kb« :  (■>  «*i'y)  -ittx^tr  ^Hnty  n-  bv 
nnan   on:  ,n''bs"iw'''i   cib  :  ]'\'2':ip:i   pa^ntr;  iSk^  d 
n''  hv  bpwn   ♦c^tspi  Dnn:?!  n^^y  D^:n3  xb  Sax  ^Dnnrntt^a 
IT  ':'y  bpty  DKT  nitflB  jiop  n^  bs7  nar  n^  hv  rnirs  n^  bp  ,|nD 
.m:aSp  ''3ur  niais  n^xa  ^m ;  nnx  paSpa  n^^n  ^nan  n**  byi 
♦n'i:37p  •'Jtt^  D^^n  hp^  Staiii  r'^o  jman 
DK1  mtas  n-'p  p  T*  b>:7i  i33;y  n-  Syi  •'ir  n*  Sy  bpiu^n  ^^ 
ntrs7i2)D  p-niDB   ]'\2bpn  \^n^'^r\f!7   psmtt^m  \''mn   ♦s'^'-n  \^^hr^ 

vn  non  Satj  ;  D»:n3  n2»«  KoSyn  Kani  ann  iriK  iSin  Sants'  »3Ba  /Hw  n«tn  najjun 
.nniK  in':n  diW  'ann  »Jsoi  ddxj?  naio'?  nr*ni  n'SiwDn 
tnc  p)  naS  (D'anDc)  D»man  Sj?  "MsiSa  ,D'3T  'rp  }TD  pbapD  TNI  (n 
pnaS  D3  n'n  D'Spcnc  »:Eai  .iJM^Kb  nu  nmb  uS  03^  N^  .(o^ao-ii  'oSiyii'a 
nioirM^  nisan  ik  /pipS  niSii*  ,Dm3  'jax  ,B'npnn  nna  pSn  en'?  n«ni  o  ixt  k?  rcan 
.»»«'?  B"«  ra  "jian  j'k  niae'  ,nno  o'Sapo  /DnS  moaS  n'j'atya  nni»  panpow 
D'SpB'  'JB'  nw  rem  /natyoa  latan  ySon  »\n  nmna  natan  Spirn  ,p3^!5  (1 
W  Sptfn  Spro  j»8  H12V  wvm  ,nivhyn  hy  Tan  Bnpn  t  nsinc  'iBai  ,nj»D3  o'Kipan 
»3»yi4  192  |a  rm£5  nh  n^aa-in  njriS)  niina  iiaxn  'jpty  '«xn  'jt?  iSptraS  mt?  njcan 
n*3i'  ]a  iinSp  Knpj  ntn  yianni  ,SpB'  »sn  SaS  oya  j?i3^  l^'tr  wnsn  jaS  (miyw 
ini«  ]ni3  i3»K  ,in  '"cy  a"n  Kine'  'aca  «Si  nn'on  nn'aa  pi  Spiwri  Sai  ,*DiaNS(«p, 
vn  hS  ,a'3ni3  vntr  nn3B»   nn'onn   ,D»Spt?a  D«3»n  D3'«b'   nnaiK   vrny  D»3n3ni    ^jnSp 

.niSe'  '3m  »3£)0  ,m3uSp.-i  n»  Dna  pnpiV 
,31'n  n"?!  niTcn   ma  pn  inter   ,i7ist5'3  n3nB  ]ni3   h'h    /ay  n^  by  bp^UTl    (t 
n3p  o«  •]:<  i^h-i^t  nSuna  ik   inv  na-a  ity^'a  ,'m  pcnityni  pnxn    •pa'-pa  iibsj  J3^ 


'^'^^  D^^pt^ 


PID 


;  p-irn  SiptrS  i^pm  ^j-irato  biptrb  iitn  ,D''r'?D  biptt?b  nm 
K"'2a  ni  ,nKion  bax  ,m^  jbi3  "f  js  ^a  Sp  p)x  ,p:?ttt?  ^an  nax 

.nai:  innmia  ,mtttt?xi  niKtom  nnbi''  ^rpi  mat  ■'j'^p  ,p3T  •'rp 

♦vtrnvb  nan  nma  ,D^naS  D^non  nma  ^"'ntr  iniKS  "intr  nma 
♦nap  "^y  ^a:  ib  'Ciin  nxsn  nmo  "laix 


S'tt-n  t"y  SaK  fOnn  nicin  SpB*  'sn  nnn  ]i3m  Spc^  nnyna  lu'Snn  dni  nanon  noa 
pi  Sip»^  D'Htyi  i3'«  o'jn  'D  nasp  nn"?  t?«  :k  n:itr  ,nm3:  najria  ]ij?oc  'i 
.anp»  mi'B*  noa  nyai  ,j«auD  "ja  i^  J'ke'  nxtsn  a"«tyD  ,nt3SninE»  ysooa 
Kin  v"''  B'"2i  n*3  nj?T  fi»  n:B'Dn  n«  •noon  K^anw  nnw  ,'d  ^:ip  -iniD  (n 
|nn  iriBOi  ;  j'Sin  Kin  O'^jp^n  iniDc  n"aa  nonoB"  n«Tn  natron  nw  «'3»  ,n"aa  naSnny 
nya  irnpnty  no  S^i  ,non  nnio  h"^  pii  d'dodo  nSias'  npn^'aB*  i:n  "^a  S^  iman  |o 
S'atra  jna  kS  nin  qoan  'a  'ico  jin'Ss  «3»c  nj?  naio  ^<n»  'a  los'i  d""i  iviv'  ,imiapS 
I'jSn  D'lain  "ja  dSini  ,non  iiaa  a"j  Kin  ii'vn  ]'33  »a  idix  :"ii  papa  laa  nam  D'cnrn 
riK  nMvh  iSav  ,niyn  ana  D'oaisn  ,Tyn  niyoo  n'n  nx  Saw  ,Tn'  '?B'  e^can  n'n  dk  non 

."jB'nSi  D"3yS  c'latfo  loa  npntin  cioa  nK 


1i^ 


a^bv^         p-«9 


DK1  Dnanb  pr^tr:  nann  nD"in3  dx  ,n3K^  ix  123:31  jn^bp^? 
IK  ,is:itt3  .j.Tnnn  p'^pi^  n-'rn  ^331  ,^^rn  ^33b  |''P3^3  ikS 
♦nsan  n:^h  nnh  pSi:?  j^xi  a^bp^?  i'^ki  iSk  ,D"'333n  m^mn^ 
n^  7p  ibp:ri  ,n^  bj:  Sipafb  n^nnb  i-?ptt?  |ni3n  <^^ 
DK  f^ipn  mptttt  iSpu;  ^piirn  ;  Sya  nann  nann3  d«  ,ia^x7 
^a-t»i  ''3ttr  -iu?ptt  ""antt  ^'iipa  ni^nnrt  na-ipi  nannn  na-ina 

♦11333  bax"*  n^J7^3^ 
^xDttT  n-a  /•'Sptt?'?  ibx  nn-/  :  naiKi  my  a  D33»p;  c^ 
pa  i<"'3K^«  ;  p7in  j-imo  onaix  b'^n  rr'ai  ,r\ni:  pnia  anoiK 
,n3i3  "iniantt^  j^itr  /'nxtonb  iS««  ;  j^Sin  nnittnu?  pw  /•'bpurS 
.pSin  -inionu  piur  /nKtan'?  pa  k^dkut. 
tt?''  Q'^hp^h  ?  nxanS  o-Spir  pa  n»  pptt^r  ^an  na^  (t 


b" 


on     t^•  1 1  "I  B 


♦■•3^^  pna 

Mipii  D'ySo  »:«y  Spjyo  ariT  hv  yaoo  run  Jmnn  .niWinij  D^bpK'  penVD  (K 
T.ity  »:Ba  ,»3tyn  nijo  ami  inM  nso  isp  nnEic  r>o  vn  nm'nm  /'D«p"*i«n„  p»  'Sa 
vni  uma  ^^h^  vsya  inmn  ^^u^  ap:  pi  n'n  jv'^yn  -r^ai  nnwo  nia^nn  riK  nnS  pnia 
"j'BiVD,,  nasi  .nmjD  vnc  nya  dco  nnnpS  n»Si3'  vn  }<S  is  m:n"nn  nv  }»3»'7B'B 
vn  Tnn  'ico  »3bd  o  ;  m^nSpa  D'a"n  q^h  m:ia"na  nn^'^pB'  dk  icSnn  Tyn  'ia  dkb*  V'n 
iK'm  laa  dk  S"t  ,nDnn  noinj  DK  .tnpn?  pta  nto  ps  ^aSi  p  mcyS  D'anno  onaun 
n'jx  jn  n'.n  I'jMa  D'Sptrn  i'?n  dji  latrn:  Txtr  ,n'an  pna  ik  nuaip  'jy  D'Sptrn  :)D30  pSn 
jyoS  D'Sptr  \nMn  nnwi  nns  'lao  pSn  c  Sptr  Saac  Dn'S'a  'H3nn  r\''n  p  'a)  ix'sintr 
D^pSnno  vnv  aihpvn  SSao  is'sin  naa  a«  pSi  ,(n»an  pna  is  pnpna  pSn  inx  SaV  nw 
,lDpSia  nsipn  nnrny  ny  insn  lai  Sa"?  nnK  nsipa  Dirontyo  vm  moip  ts^tr^ 
xS  as  h^H  ,avh  lyun  nS  dk  dj  dh"?  D'a"tr  non  laa  n'Spcn  'a  ,DnaTjS  O'yatr:  T8 
Dj  M»n  ntn  oyam  ,Dnaun  t"?  lyj'tr  ny  I'yn  ua  hv  D'Sprn  latrn'  ts  ,nDnnn  nmna 
j'anpo  vnty  »i2a  /tfnpna  Syo  lasy  n'  Sy  Spin  h-ipvb  nan  i'?  ina  dn'^  nnnxSty  nacoa 
.(D"aoi)  ,SKi2"aB'  D"3yn  ns  «)!*  cSptyn  Sy  j'iae'oo  vn  'a  maaS  Tnyn  Sy  nj 
iryono  n»a  vntr  niyo   oiaon  n«  iStr  j^'jinn  eioao  np»  S"*i   /pjJ3  ^3N'    (3 

.mam  n«  ona  ntryn  ,Sprn  n'snoS  ono  'nnpStj'  ni'^pts-n  nSs  nnn  i'jk  nn  tioK'i 
iDiKi  ,v  hy  moTiB  ppS  S'nrotr  'oa  :  Kin  nstn  nau'on  pin  /13)  DJDon    (J 
,pp3n  Diaono  a^inon   n»  Spe*  laatr  nnx  S'jn  n'a   nynStr  *>SpB''?   nps  ntn  eioano,, 
SaK  /nana  iimo  ,:iDan  ixB'a  nanaS  nm«   n  n '   pi  d«  ts  qj  ^^a  nyn7i  ;pSin  nnian 
♦oStwiO   ,hhn  no"?   iS'bk    nana  ]inio  /"hpiffh    i  S  k   nn  idiki  ai  ejoa   n»a  tniKty  'oa 

.(n^aom 
pniD  T  Sy  pip  ui  DK  riKDna  nnynS  Dje*  n"a  nan'?  oyts  tnia  ,fiyDB'  'i  "lOX    Ct 
nasp  onS  v^  n^hpv  yavD   ,a'ySD  -woa  na  map"?  'jian   nwun^  nat^p  psc  laso  ,nana 


'^'h^  nhtV^ 


Dns 


"]-n3  rDipan  n-  nxx*?   "|n2i   aixtr    ^ab   n^";rpn  r\^^hr\ 

iD-nn  ,rmr32£x  pa  ibpui  ,D3D3  bx'-'^aj  pn  n.2  S^  0 
,a-nn  n-nnn  pK  ♦nsipb  lanm  piDna  amnm  ,D-nnn  ""aBS 
Innn  !  n*nr\ !  ann  :  ib  Drnaix  jm  ?  cnriK  :  nrh  nx:x''tr  Tp 

cnn-'i  nnnn  nx  nsc?'' «»«?  ,nana  n\"i  s*?  n-'u^^'^tr  ,nixb3top3 
.TJtt^m  ^bKtntr^  pK  d^S  n^i^xnn  nx  did  .onnn  nan  nx 

•mpinnn  mrna 

.p  inano  n»n  \H^v  |ni3  nnc  nya  J"i  nuo  nnn  Sa  ioiSs^dw:  3"n  nu  Ptr    (a 
Dyea  n:oD  S'nnn  laatr  nairnnn  neipn  jo  loi'ja  ,Dnnn  nai  riK  DnnM   (T 


-3-1  -^31  ,nj:n3  n^pab  mnj  |m  ,jnn  onsa  ,n"i2fp  onca 
Dntt?j72T  ,\'\^D2  nnsi  ,mxD  nprm  anrpa  niais  -kt^  p  ;  K3^pr 
nnK2  rp-jD  nnxa  onxsix  ppiau^  -nm  nipbx  -3"i  ,2«3  npu'm 
nptt?m  Dnrj73  n»x  n»  -^aa  .Sibxa  nvirm  an^'pa  ,jvd3 
-itt^pS  -i:rsK  -Ki  ,3110  Dv  Kin^  -^sa  ?  nirn3  -inK3  nax  kSi 
.b'ibs3  nj7tt7m  ontrpb  imanpn  ^a's*?  3iia  crs 
,n3trK"[  riK  j-a-nn  pxo  trbt^  trbtr  h^  ,msip  trb^^  ^^ 
mriD  n-3V  ,-iaix  bK^a^-  -sn  ;ba-j  ,n-3  ^e^'r'x  :  p3  3inDi 
,msn  -nna3  xb  ,0:3:  D-nnn  pK  .xbaj  ,xn-3  ^Ksbx  :  pa 
/:r  K»^  »p^ap3  Kbi  ,j-S-Bn3   xbi  ,bn3D3  k*?!  ^'^yjaa  ^h^ 

.-tt?^'?^?  pIB 
nwanp-  hy  u'hpvn  niKSin  mD  Kin  ntn  jjiBn  j'ij?  ,'i3  D'p")D  nj^blfa  (K 
n:^  iia'S  nunipa  phn  Sxico  nni«  SsS  n^.TB'  o'Spe'n  eiD3  r«  aaiyS  D''?nnPD  vntr 
vn  ]D'3  nS'nna  o'Spirn  Sa  n«  123  nsair  nnKc  :  peny  vn  pi  ,S'j?Si3  nimnB'  »Kjnn 
]«D30  vni  ,nnK  Sa  pxD  nyirn  tij?  ,niSna  nvan  tr'jB'  ntn  eioano  d'hSoq 
niDipn  n«  i'kSod  vm  i»kd  'a  nn«  Sa  nuop  nisip  vhv  I'K'ao  vn  a"nKi  ,nincBoa  jniK 
nvanno  nnxi  nnK  Sa  ,n»3va  18  nnaya  .j  .3  .«  nrniK  cStra  nwoiDO  vnv  maupn 
cys  nS'Dm  ;  iia'S  nuaip  pa  niipS  riaan  r\H  i'hsio  vn  nuopn  niBipnoi  ,mSnn 
in  ^ish  D<o'  i^'o  j'B'ij?  vn  pi  ,nDBn  mip  imn  'sn  Kintr  jo'aa  vaa  nn'n  naiirNnn 
nyoa  ikSo  ntroB'  ninn»n  nvann  p  iS'nnn  n':!}"  nniK  ik-jq  iitk  ny3  ik  ^myiatrn 
wSo  a'nxi  .K  mxa  njoioon  nsipn  nx  nnj?  wSa  ,'i  mxa  nioioan  nsipn  nw  nawKin 
n^iv  mipo  nn'nir  n'B^'jtpn  itai  .a  niwa  naoioon  nsipS  niiB'Ki  mip  nn'nw  n'atrn  p 
*iia's  niaanpa  pSn  nnK  SaS  n'n'jr  o'soan  saiyS  na  nxt  itryi  .i  niKa  n:oiDon  ncipS 
^'nn'  n:iiav  ,]Q>oh  nniK  naao  n»n  nh  n^v^hvh  isiaa  oyo  Saa  ]2hv  ,n'3n  pn3a  ik 
0'3n3n  DcS  n'jrm  n^rn'S  inv  nanpn  Snie"  pn  db-S  njitrx-in  nx  Dim  ,TnyS 
anpn  S3ir  ':bo  nipimn  niano  S3  Vatra  n^cScm  ,S8<nB>»  pKO  nipinin  nam  mspion 
B'iny  vn  t^ai  ,Dna  p'^n  SunB^o  k"3S  n'ni  jmivo  myon  vn  »*ay  ik  ;  mip  anp 
n»n  naB'  nas^S  D:3:n  S3  m  i«  minni  ,D'Kajn  hy  n^n  oitr  n'n'  kS  lyoS  Sna  ciaiBa 
mnpoTiB  i;<  Sijdi  Syioa  hS  wi  D'a  m'«  ana  iriB'  nnjzn  Sa  nno  TonS  I'a'ina  vn  ,tiD3n 
nocc  maup  ni:'ni  o'-jap  ona  vv  yapai  i'S»Bna  dj  nSi  t^aan  -vnonS  d»Si3»b'  mpa 
♦jsa  ,3nn  dtiS3  n'\'iy  Dnea  .'i;ii  a»p:  on^m  aman  S'atra  Sam  ,eioan  "vnonS  o'Si3' 
S3«  p^'xa  i^oa  n'ityn  nsipn  nw  mnfiS  D'maia  vn  jaS  lan  noBn  'B'  nyara  maanpntr 
fv:rn  noipn  mya  vn  jaS  ,"na:jn  c^oaa  niaaipn  lan  kSi  nnK  nv  pi  nine  myiatrn  :in 
iBiSa  /Hona  "Hryob  nmj  }m  .n'tp'Srn  neipn  n«  inns  tk  !»»  SiSk  »sn  ny  mp'Eca 
ensin  mo  jna  Si3xSi  jontrS  iid«i  iiua  nnaiy  laa  on  niana  hv  nnSini  iSSn  auarn 
lyapr  avtani  .icyan  nwicn  mip  oa  nS'3KS  vn  D'HtrT  iSSn  nuatn  pa  Saw  pwyan 
oS'aca  lami  o'SirniS  niSyS  n'San  '"Jiy  iSnn  mv  ubb  «in  ,nnryaS  a'aarn  iSk  nn 
»3B0  pi  nia  D'pSin  r^ii  M"1i  mty  ja  ,-iD^K  'KTV  )3     .nupS  onS  mso  nianan  vn'B' 

.TH  pi  in3»  iiryan  nnyiSc  ^uryan  maia 


nannn  "ima  naix  K3^pr  'sn  ;n-i\r  ^SsS  nssnnn  "iniai 
D-'Msn  po  K2^:n  "3"!  ;  nnt?  •'^dS  d''3d:  nmx:'i  ,ra]bb  p^p 
;n"i^  ''hDh  njsnnn  nmai  ^nni^b    p^p  n^3D3  nmxi  nxsiK 

.nn^S3  nms2  vn  sb   mi  nt 

,p3tt?3  |i3»iKb  p:;!"!]!  ,p322ixn  nstt?  "^i?  nms  pbbntti  ,p:aixn 
pnpiS  ^ijttta  nnn  k3  dx  ;  ntrin  njsnna  nmx  pnpiSi  p-inm 
.n:^\-i  |tt  1Kb  DK1  ,n^in  nxsnna  nniK 
niD^isn  ni3D-ipS  p^iK-i  Dnai  |nn  rm  ,rD5:  trnpi^n  0 
nrx  ^KTp  p  lb  -ittx  ;  xa^pj?  "3-1  ns'i  ,p3ir3  pj^ixb  unr 
bj7  nmx  pbSnai  ,j^3aiKn  natr  |nxs  p^^ns?:  xbs  ^mi^sn  x\t 
jniK  pnpibi  p"itim  ,pDtrn  p^iaixb  jniK  p^m^i  ,j^3)2iKn  nir» 

♦ntrnn  nttnntt 
,n3T)sn  ""ajb  .T'ik-i  nana  jhd  nn\m  ,rD3:  trnpttn  ^^ 
,ni7ir  ""sn^b  nD»-  onDt  n»iK   ntp-bx  "nn  ^ninpji   anst 

lana  jnM  Ktr»  nny  ,nn'»Qn  nnio  ?  na  D'c^y  no  mayir  nitPD  qoa  lytpa  on  ,rMvn 
SHj?otr»  '1  noiKi  ,mDnpn  njB'ODS  aooano  in»nnr  mnna  VB'iy  I'n  no  nnn  hSkw 
ioi«n  y"n  ^3«  ,a'3Tn  niaanp  psa  hvi2  iDiy  naron  n'nts'  na  nip  dk  niaaip  i'3ip  vntr 
^msyc  naro  f\Dan  imoD  pnpiS  vn  nnton  y^ph  o  *ioik  tfnpn  myoo  n'nn*?  •noNB' 
j'2'ipDi  nma  maa  j'npiS  rn  o)  ,D'aD3  Sc  nnon  »is'oo  iKts'aB'  no  V't  n»3D3  inioi 
m:-iO  nxTH  natron  ]d  nam  .ma  ^h  ninx  nyi  canan  jao  n"ni  ,n-iB>  'SaS  Cnpino  mo 
iioa  laT  Sa  o'pnno  amiaon  canan  vn  irnpon  iota  'a  nsia  (nvatron  "jaa  nS  nana 
myi  ,ia"iinn  nnx  ^la'n  nnso  npiSnon  nn'n  n*?  hnt  wSiS  o  /Unann  tk  lai  ynia  Kh^ 
'1  lai  tnpnn  ]dt3  n'aitrn  D'ana  vn  "jNyatyM  vb^Sk  vmaKi  jna  n'n  SxyoB"  'ib'  inv 
.nnaoa  ip'?n  n^i  jnaon  hk  lyT  k^  on  aai  ,a«aiB'nn  canan  p  n'n  O'anan  jao  Na'an 
•IVDan  'EO  mois  jno  nns  j«ni  anaon  lana  nipSinc  nvae'O  noaV  n^iaa  ntn  bSan  nioci 
vn  nrinn  nacm  mayir  natro  natrn  rjioa  inran  h"i  /fiTiD pn  "iniD  (n 
DH'n  I'Ki  vaen  nSd  K«n  mitapn  mo  o  tv'i  /D'cnnn  O'Spiro  niapan  nnapa  D'B'onB'a 
nar  '?aa  iKwa  n'n  ,vaBn  hSd  pi  Stsia  a"a  n'n  natsp  ^hv   vnv  jnai    ,nvtr  pnn  jSiaa 

.niopn  'aaoD  nno  ntm 
D3  DK  "^p'O  pSi  n'an  pnaS  Hin  j?"i  iok'  cipn  nno  ,VD3J  C^np»n  isa  0 
Si'  D'aip  nvnS  na'ivn  nh)  niupn  'aooa  vaa  ,n2ToS  n'lxin  o'lai  tripnn  'ssn  j'a  vn 
oSiKi  ,]op''  nvairiana  ma  lan'  na"  na  ]ai  natoS  D'iKin  n"n  O'laia  dSiki  ,na»on 
laip'ir  inv  ntaia  'Kin  voaa  ts"ipon  nyi  »a  ,inyio  .mapn  'aoooa  na  I'ono  »Kty  ja 
viTim  paoiKn  niyo  Sy  nSiS'n  trpao  pS  itrK  ;  io:jy  naion  "r:?  jnaToS  cixin  O'lai 
.tr^ipon  ni'i^j  'Kin  i;ia»  t"'j:B'  rcnn  nranno  nniK  pnpiSi 
Sax  ,nnn  piaS  Kin  tripn  nno  'a  i:id  k"i  na  ,nib"iy  ""aiV^  nan'  DnaT  (t 
piaS  n"?!"  D'ltr  oa  bk  naton  to  iks'  kS  naro"?  ]"iKin  na^jj;  o'lain  'a  noT  T"aj; 
lOK'  ,nt3  »KTj?  jaa  laion  ywvT  'n  hki    .losy  naron   iiisS  oiaioS  tivd   p'jtr  fi'an 


^^};'2n  pis 

nnx  p]x  ,iS  nax  ;  D:n  nxsitr  3i:na  n^nn.  ^x  r">X3ix  ^dv 

♦niD^s  biya  sbx  pK3  pxty  "1D1K 
nanna  px3  nmnt  Str  ptr'?!  nbn^rian  n^y^i  n-ig  (^ 
,rnp   p3tt?  p^bi  ,nhr\'^^n  -i^y^  trnai  ,."na  trna  .nDtrbn 

ptny  D^bnj    Q^sna    ma    tr^D  :  nxsiK  bixu  k3x  ;  r^^^hr] 

pn   pnpiS   ?  jnn  piriy  rn  na  nstt?'?,!  n-'ur  nniQ  (a 
^3-1  ;  bxptt^"'  '3-1  nm  ,uipnb  -is^m  ,mnSDi  d-'jou?  ^\^y'> 


b- 


D1      B'n  'B 


/^'a-i  pns 

pt<o  pi  1X12'  '3  ,Din  itfK  DnSn  tb'i  nDi^n  ^n^y^atrn  D^ri'QD  noiK'  (N 
rryacn  rutra  Dm»  D'npiS  vn  J'no  ,ni»n  na  nSnJE?  ne'nnn  nxnn  p  spni  S^ib** 
nyiTJc  no  nxnn  a'Sn:)  oipa  nT'Nn  mxiS  onn  n'nSiw  vn  ?  it^ip  vhi  lyiT  kS  tkb' 
T  na  tsiWn  K^ty  nniK  moB'Si  n'Bo  (n"3  Nip'i)  Nipon  ptrSa  riKnpity  non^pn  njtra 
mtfi  I'Ki  ipcn  Kin  San  rryacn  mv^v  uco  /Hioa  pipn  k3VB'  mip  mpj?^  nn« 
vn  I'jSn  nnmcni  nnnn  .^^{1nnm  a^novn  n«  tnSnS  nnn«  n'an'?  'SaS  mtrn  "jyaS 
nnw  SrS  cc  nsiann  m  u  lip  iSn3  acna  nn  :id3i  ,n3K'Sn  noiino  disb'  o'^apD 
nvnS  nariB'O  -vn*  janptr  i2id  D:n  laitr  nvnS  mw  ananatr  iDiwn  'dv  'm  .ona  pSn 
nijaip  iKtra  o  dn  ,DnSn  'nci  loiya  inioa  na*?.-!  p«  Sdm  ims  an:o  8iri  dm  in'S  Sw 
.(n"T  PKn)  nsj'  pya  iia's'?  dmik  anjo  Kin  ns  th'  'jcd  nnp^  imo 
niSnjn  nvan  cStrS  0:33  n'n  Khv  noan  imo  ,nmnT  b^  pcbl  JTiD  (3 
P^joSk  '"j?  v'jy  D'Siy  vntr  ,maj  aipaa  imx  pama  vm  nac^'^n  n'ty  Kipa  ^nSvoS  uiatBf 
,nanN  mo  nje-oa  isan'  la^uB*  ,nanK  msS  traa  D'tfiy  vn  ntn  e)Danoi  ;  ni'jyo  uSa 
D'on  not<S  iai  ,KDva  nwn'  oa'ac'   viip  pat?  pcSSi  StKTyS  n'^ne'Dn  V)}wh  traan  pi 

.jip'n  D'ani  vn  d«  dSb'tv  Tyn  noinSi 
vn  no  natr'SS  I'm  t^Da  ikcj  niy  n'jN  Sa  *inK  dn  V't  /Hatrbn  n'B'  "iniD  (a 
lotn  nSiDi  natan  Sj*  -[Oih  p'  m:pS  vH'  ^pip  x'aatp  'a  Sa  ,mj"  pnpl^  ?  ia  ptnj? 
noan  inia  nj?a  'a  ,mais  n«tn  natrani  ^Dcoaa  mTj?a  D'Jip  vn  nSx  'jai  ,nnaaS 
ftrnpnS  mj'O  in'n'  jyaS  ,D'anpan'7  n^aaS  ninSoi  n'jaB'  p'  r:ip  vn  ,naB'Sn  n'c  hv 
'aSmoi  .D"iy  Sa*  niyaa  pi  cipn  myaa  nmno  rwc-jh  •iid{<b»  ,"iaiNi  pbin  y'h  Saw 
niaSn  ,nt3'nB'  niaSn  nia'S  natr  laa  nhpwn  eioa  imaa  icj.'B'  na  am  nnan  aenn 
lea  myi  ;  natrSn  n^tr   myaa    pnpiS  vn  nSs  Sa»  maanpn  'aia  nx   ipaS  jai  ,niianp 

,(p*iDn  nta  't  naSn  dip  nxi)  ,nSH 
watp  D'Spca  ntynn  nann  w>  -laau'  p'ia  ins  y^in  on  V'l  ,nDnnn  iniD    (T 


'^'Dn 


D^bv^  pns  11 


.^tr^nn  pis 

♦prpn  bj7  .-fnna  ^mo^an  by  bsia^  j3  n-rina  ,0^203.-1  Sp  .thk 
ciaia  nma  .Tn^  ?  .Tnna  itti:^  K^p:nttb  pan-iia  nt  .rnna 
nam  n^:^r^:  ,n^^v^  ''h^r^  hv  n^nx  p  .p^b  a^yntt?  nvi  |^nm 
rp^pan  "^y  ^^22  p  ,Dnp^  nS-'p:  "^y  -13:  p  ,n-iD  ^:^'2:  ,]^n^tt? 
rrvrptt  "^y  lanj  n^3  n'':rn  '^jy  ^r  p  D^'^\:^n  ,h:cb:in  by  khk  p 
nsnan  bv  nip'^x  ,n-nispn  ntt^pa  bv  DriD3K  n-'a  ,D^:an  anS 

♦tt^nSan  bv  Dmai 

/tt^^Dn   pna 

nnn  k"3  ,n3B'03  atrin  nine'  |'2ioon  rn  nn«  pTs  »"?  ,pj10on  )n  i^K  (k 
]»3j?i  ,in  "733  |»3ioo  vntr  nn'onni  D'3iian  pi  msto  nacon  Sax  ,in'a»3  nnsn  o^ai 
•n3v^nSy'  'o  on'20  "jiu  pS'ao  o'jnanvnr  :|n  ,niD^'Dn  .'t  nae^a  nx3n»  m^mnn 
d^bS  n'?j;»  »o  iSsK  dict  n'n»tM  •non  p'tnnS  niiooS  ]'3ns  vni  ,it  mnj?  'Oi  w  muy 
mai  vna* ':sai  snpnS  nyy-^  nn'n  mSv  ntrK  Sstr  mmpn  ;n  pj^p  .inoS  'di  nvn 
i'nD3  V3'pn  n»  rh  lan'iri  mip  snpn  mip  nwsn  Sstr  ,"nDn  p'tnnS  it3  m  ]uiooS  vn  ions 
'an  nnin'?  naisa  n3'i  nnam  |'K»3on  Man  'jbo  iniyno  vn  cai  ,]n'h]}  13T  k^ji  3ispn 
,tynpo3  iHii  'junn  i3n  n'n  D^'^D  '^in  .'?kib"  m«Bn  cn^ss  ]"j?  ,rhHn  nianyn 
h)}  D'BH'  B'a'jin  I'm  ,Dnp  nnaa  ny3iKn  pt  n•\^:i'sr^  nj?3  nn'Sj;  n'Kirii  a^anan  vnv  'aeo 
,ima  n'S  n'Bnp  is'a'  kW  niaanpn  lira  n8  SiawS  vn  D'maio  na  pai  v^v  hv  nssin 
HKiBin  mpoS  iK'an'j  nSnac  nns  '^a  Sy  n»«n  vn  cainoni  ,d"j;d  'Sina  tod  I'jna  pSi 
naioon  pi  mamon  bio  atrna  nci  ^m"?  o'ai  o'aioo  vn  ]aSi  ,Dn'nnn  onnK  n•^iab^ 
^aa  K*a  cStrvvi  cipoa  pi  kS  fpn'B'  "iBin  .innaB'n  nnn  nirya  n^n  'janc  'B'Nin 
,m^y2  tnao  n'nc  naman  «n  ,n"i3  .inpo  'Ka"?!  SaiS  «SiyS  o'O  j-an"?  ,KniDai  p«n 
^ij?aS  ,na-in  D»aioD  vn  m"?  oa  ,Dny{j'  nb'yj  .naota  miaj?i  miay  Sa  .rnan"?  msa  im 
nonSo  ni'a  nhv  c\h  irnpon  nx  HOB'S  ms»n  n'n  ja  'a  ,B'ipDn  nn  nae'S  lytr  Sa 
nS'in  jB"'  kSip  iBipo  Sy  low  Sa  Dn'o:?o  vn  D'aioom  ,Ton  'Doa  iKan»  itr«a  ^naaci 
TK  I'Bnen  iniK  j'pSo  vn  ,itr'  ono  ins  nx  v«^io  i'!^  d«i  /i"?  Saaintr  taipoa  a^ao  a'ao 
^bvbv  .onytr  nS'j^a  Sy  n'aioon  na*?  onnK  o'aioo  nrS  vnw  p>pD  mpa  nM  mi  inioa 
D'nn  Dn'n«  n«  onSo  vn  iai  ,ni3aipn  naipn  nya  yorn"?  nna  noo  vntr  o'Dinn  non 
='j;EKp^  nn'rn  "jy  nxaon  ^K1  ,maanpn  niipn  nya  onKin  nnioton  nw  lOt  »Saa  oaaaa 
HMC  ,mit3pn  ntJ'yD  .D'nSsom  o'emn  by  n'aioon  la"?  pnt*  naioo  n'n  "ij:dd«o 
D'aaao  noao  naaiyh  na'ainb  Sia  poyi  ]'ay  nn'n  na^p'ni  nv  Saa  ,0'ByD  'nc  naisa 
n^3  vn  nta  o'aMSon  I'aoixn  joi  fnSiy  niiopn  py  n'n'B'  t«i  ,inKi  inn  Sa  nven 
mpn'  kSw  j'aoiKS  pa'ix  vn  yiac'  "jaa  mSn  a"'  I'B'iy  vntr  D^JDH  Dni»  pi  ,DJ'l33K 
•itbi  ^Ton  'Doa  iKiaon  ,Dn'3am  onin  nai  ,B"jr  be*  \rh^v  Sy  D'naio  vntr  nya  nino 
vntr  nansn^  oa  ^Dn'sa"?  Dn30iK  n«  j'idio  vntr  nam  mm  lonj  ri"'2  ]»3ioan  mn 
.inaKSai  invp3i  in3aiK  m«iSi  o'ai3ona  imx  SspS  inva  n3iaa  mn  I'ln  imj*  pr'Sna 
•Sin  »3Ba  0"p3  vn'ir  cn'atrai  on'iaaa  D'3nan  nra'jn3  o'pioy  o'3i  o'ir3H  vn  na 
vn  mai  matrSi    .o'lnvo  D'3iaa  vn  nSia  Sytr  ,n'iaan   »D3iai    ,tripaa    nS'ain  D"yan 

.D'anan  'laaS  pi  nnnvo  vntr  wipoa 


m3p:i  ,mbip  nnp^  jDi^y  anst  ,nttiK  p^in^  ^rn  ;  (n^an  p-iab 
c'lDD]  "is^T  ,nibiS7  in^ana  ix^nn'  ,n^r2h^  ■'nat  ^D-iicb  iisa'' 
nty^7K  ^3"!  nan  nx  ^3S  nxn  ,-i»ik  Kn^py  •'nn  ;n^2n  pnsS  iSa"* 
p^in^  ^a-n  ,ima  nx  nwn  ntr'^x  'S"!^  .ytt^in^  ^ai  nana 
,\rn"'aa  trnpan  :  |n^3tr  nana  TipDtt?  ,D^"'es  ^a-i  -dsk  ;phr\ 

♦S7^in^  ^a-i  nana  ,DnD  u^npam  ,^]v^hi<  ^an  nana 
:  natan  -"a:  hv  p'lxn  anan  j.na  vm  ^raaj  trnpan  cn 
,Yf2n  imx  ^am^S  nas:''  ^naix  iij^^Sk  ^a-i  ,nisiri  o^ja^  ,m3^'' 

.n^an  pnab  ibs^  o-'oa:  "ix^^i  ;  ^\^b^::  |n^x:na  x'^a"'! 
rSy  tjapon  '^a  ;  naii^bn  n«  jnytra  dv  a^^StrS  nnj^  (o 
tt^Swa    ;  nj?a"ixtt  pDD"'  ^^btt^ia  nap   ,npa-ii<a  mn'^a  psob 
DKi ;  n:vhvrt  bp  ^npn  n**^  ^nyanxa  pso^  ,npa-ixa  niari 
Sap»  irxi  ;  ib  pann  ,|"  f ^ann  dki  ,ib  .nr^bnn  ,nbiD  r\Thr\n 

♦nsina  naian  xn^sr  nj?  ,rmj7)a  nx 

onsTn  \shv  n«an  pna  jd  aits  inv  natoS  o  ,in:T  ono  dj  dk  ,Hin  trnpon  nyn  o 
,an:Dn  otra  anpn^  i»Si3'  i:'ki  n'oStyS  pi  nvixin  nnpa  S:»  anann  ctra  nSiyS  laip' 
^"11  .an:on  ntra  niSiy  iaip»  in'onai  in»S  ntn  iinS  nao'  pS  ,nanpnn  nya  uj'«  ok 
iDK'  ynaoa  d"bb  'i  Sax  ,«"i  nm  nx  nsn  mn  o  10^{»  ,K"ia  tnpn  nno  I'ayS  inync 
nnN  Sa  "3  injia  tn  fOra  D«ip  sSi  naioS  mona  vn  on'i'ai  ono  voaa  Sa  trnpn  onb» 
n  1 0  n  a  n  1  D'Da:n„  :  noxi  iptb  dk  Sax  ,yBnn»  'n  nana  lanpn  ,iS  »iNin  mpo'?  aip' 
nimp  voaa  'ratJ'  inyn  ma  nSj  ^natoS  laipv  manan  o  tyiiea  io«  nSi  "s-ipn  n'^ia  'Sb' 
nnx  n'7D  nij?  ci'oinS  iS  n^n  ,Dtra  nionan  NipB*  jva  ,\s  nh  on  'a  ;  n'an  pnaS  ,in  nnw 
«-ip'  jaSi  jins  on"?  j'k  msiyi  o'ioc  nu"{?  »jbd  jX^na  nno  nnnKtr  njcaai    ."narn'j^ 

.'131  niSiy  Dn»aia 
ijOD'tP  onaian  nx  jnip  vn  B'nm  Saaw  ,n3B'on  nxT  j'ay  ,D"l^  D^B'btJ'^  THN  (tD 
p:ni3  vn  ithd  ta;Don  SaSi  ,vl^nn  hs  hy  n'an  pna"?!  naioS  insjn  lai  Sa  'jj?  I'non  nx 
^wmnn  Sa  "jj?  vn  Dni«  D»::{ip  rntp  cnponi  ;  n'an  piaSi  naToS  |niK  Ta^'ti'  nonpn  riK 
^y  Bnpnn  t  ,iytpn  Snn  d«  SaK  ,pT3n  nw  nnaitsn  o'-^aio  vn  ,Dnann  np'na  cxy  |Bisa 
nya  nnS  n'oyn  onaion  D!<  ^'jitn  ij?rn  'b3  pi  oStrS  nSb*  o'sa^S  rrn  mcim  ;  njvSyn 
ininnx  nij?  rrn  myon  riN  I'jap  m  dk  S"*i  jDnaiDrr?  ySnn  ,y»'jnn  qni  moiKtr  noi  .Sn 
in'sn  N^i  on  jnnT  o'anani  ,td  niyon  nn  i»^apo  i»n  non  o  ,1018  'oStriTa  Sas*  ,p'Sy 


pn^:»  ,n^nn  pnab  ^-nit  n  ixiiDur  ^Ss  bsi  ,nmx  pnmss 
♦n^sn  pia  riDtrbS  \^he>^:^  rr-ona  p-iD^:  nKu^m  ,imK 

nav'^vn  "rj;  tnpn  t  n'.TtS'  noK  k'j  onm   nan  dk   ,iDnin  IJDD  naNjr  •'O    (n 
'jy  in'   riD3n  rrn  n«i   mean  B)D3na  dwj?  vn  n*ipa  h«3  ,mS3  j'b"  n"?  lamn  n^Kom 
rinij  vn  ,iomn  lya  naipn  jruB'  myon  ny  nw  i'jb'  oiaoni  dodj  iman  Tatf  ninninn 
Siyio  u'{<i  Dvn  nir  vf^y  aina  n»n  o   ,81X0*?  iniN  jn'opo  vn   «■?  cmnn  Syi  dodj  iS 

.•in«  DvS 
•won   D'Htrn    nac'?   p   d'B'   nnv^f   K^ao    'oStrni  nitaSna    ,n^3K'b   TIB'    (1 
»6  itTK  DnnvD  motra  cnpaa  vn   niai  n^svb  nam    .nstn  npnsn  nt-yDO  d'2*i  onan 

.Dip:«  i''':>n  niatrS  'ntr  ma'trnS  iki  ,nB  Dacn» 


p^riy  pKT  ,pS3-ia«  nrntt-'ai  j^nsn  nu'^'tra  prima  p{^  u 
,nj  n3T  ,h:v  :  in'^r  mnai  ,tnpttn  vn  ms2mn  nynn^   o 

;"T3S2  Q-'b^K  ^3d:  cr  tratt^a  ,-i3t ;  a^S^x  b^a  pn  ,mDp:'i  onDt 

njiaa  Kintt?  ,pnv  b^x  ib  "|bin  ^d-'dd]  rp2?:  Kinir  ^^^  (t 
^.T'nx  SiCK  lb  SD  ;  amn  laax:  bnpai  ,mptt  iS  |m:  .mDmnn  hv 

,mpi3  p:i:3  Sapai  ,mx:mnn  ns  K^:iia  n^m^}  ,ni  b::x  nt  pxn 
^^tz7  ,in^3X3  pnv  obtt;^  ,innD  dki  ,^npn':)  n^mn  n^mn  dki 

.nsrbpn  bp  tt?ipn 


,Dn«3«2  vn  D'SmB"  d;i  ik  jOnS  ,D'3n3  o'iiaon  vn  om  maTo  nrw  nawon  nam 
,iSMn  Q'Jioon^  Dunan  naian  n«   ninS  nsnn  dSini    ,«:dt  'osn   nain  nra  nan  laai 

Die  Priestbr  und  der  Cultus  von  Prof.  Buchlrr  nBD3  ]"yS  vSj?  /tsnonon  Dyaoi  Oa^S 

nn-rj;'?  dk  ^a  ,d'bSkS  kSi  ni«oS  kS  iSj?  naS  n'inan  iddo  o  nsi'  natyi  Wien,  1895 
nt'K  75,M  n'jnano  p  D':ioon  vn  onan  nva  hy  jai  ,nj<o  ai  n'n  onSn  iijdo  pi  ,n'B'?« 
nana  naw  'do  ^iioa  nto  niy  unaT  i:niKi  ,47=67  nso  nv  nxi  ,d''?«ib"i  d'iSd  dj  onaT 

.nonnn  Syi  n'anan  Sj?  D'oan  nutp  nn'W  n"»n 
^laon  innMi  ,Snj  inan  innxi  iSon  :  ]a  vn  vipn2  mN»B':n  mo  ,pnme  PK    (3 
DJi  D'ai  vnB*  ]naTjn  annnwi  .nyatf  vntr  ]'SaiaKn  cnnnn  ,D''iv  i»nc  (ip''7npn  vnnMi 
onsai  KDV1   Ton  'Doa   iwiao  d.-.d   nnK  'ra   moro   nam    .d'3t  n'aioo  vn   on'nnn 

.nhyob  latan  iBona 
aisp  n»no  n»n  o'aoan  '7a'?i,j?n»a  vn  nuitrjaip  hsh  oooan  ,mDn"in  nyanN  (3 
oa  p'cDO  n'n  'na,,  omm  vn  niitr  nn:tr  onatn  na  nnyi  o'caa  'ana  nam  ,Bnpoa 
n'nir  "lat*  nmna  itronE'n  taSi  laoo  'jna  invo  loa  n'n  d'S'kS  S3«  ,^33  waip  N'sonS 
wonvn  jaSi  n'aapni  D'Snan  nnpam  nnain  jmb'  nnpaa  7aj<  ,"S'k„  laaipr  'oS  |od 
toiS)  "Kmn„  nmna  wanrn  D'ymson  pip  hy\  .npan  10  laaipc  'oS  "Say,,  onina 
n»n  jcn'aoai  nn«  nwaai  n'Ss  'atr  N»anS  n'n  Dn'B-jrn  "^yv  (Kunn  'asra  n«a  nv^^r.v 
»hw  Q'ynson  n^ayn  Sy  Sas  ,mina  natina'  D'aoan  nK  onS  nnS  p'soo  n  a  1  n  omnn 
not*  ,]"  «Sa  lotf  aiSi  nSio  nnj*  ]ntyj?  pm  ^nnin  'ntri  nn«  caa  p*i  K'anS  onS  n'n 
•ip'onn  hyv  vn  nmnin  ntron  »a  ,noi«  n'n  »«Ty  ]ai  pnvo  idd"?  nns  n'n  nb  o  ,D'03nn 
kSi  fVOiH  in'Sj;  aina  n'nir  noiNi  j"  aa  I'lvn  na  -i!<tro  iS'ianS  S  n  =  k  o  i  n  aina  n'n 
natron  jo  nsia  ]ai  n'oiM  vn  trnpoitr  D'aoon  Sa  'a  ,n'a  nSap  nn»n  pDo  »Sai  n'lij? 
nj?  mSiatTKn  pi  n'oix  pi  D'anan  ii:i  Sa:o  omSy  nnx  ai  jot)  D'aoon  Saa  nosy 
,(S*aniyaa'a  icoa  nwn  ,aait8'7a  u'sni  n'Oiwa  onny  iSap  nviya  nai  ,'t«o»i  hhn  in« 


D'bv^ 


KX^  intr  ?  .T33^  n:?u  itotr  xnpj  nabi    ♦"T'trn  ^v^  ,D^tr3  nrti^ 

,u''^  -^tr  -inx  :  n^nn  nns  hv  pnna  dSix3  d^j^i  ;  nn^?  "Sa 

♦TS2n  a^:£in  nnS  vSr^?  ,D^3a3b 
p'^pn  :  an'-'^r  airiDi  ,^"fpX23  vn  nnsi^  ntr:?  ntrb;^  en 
DHT  ,n]i3Si  ,D''2rp  ,n'?i:?  ^bn:n  ,]'2'^p  ,]'P'r\v  ]'hpn  ,pmn 
••to  ,pp^npi  ,n:in  na^  Ssatr  ,pmnpSpn  ♦nnijS  n^n  ,n"nsDb 
,nbir  ''':'n:'i  ,p"nn  |n  .pj-'p  ;  ni^an  ns^b  bpi^  npntr^x  Spir  xbtt' 
,]^:^p  :  on^ix  o^DDm  ;  mm-'  ^n-i  nan  ,mbir  I'^is  .njv  ""in  |n 
♦mSiy  |bi3  ,nbir  ''^n:!  ,nSip  nnxi  nxisn  inx 
;p-in   -"^ttTtt  mns^    s-?  /'O-^^r   '''^P    ''"in»  :  naiKpi    o 

^ "  D  -1    B'  "in  ^  Q 

.triipn  JO  inNS3  dj  nts  ]rhw 

:  iQ^h  "I'p'ny  I'Spn,,  vSy  aina  n'n  ^jcni  ,i2tjn  ':b3  it  naco  n'Sptrn  mm  tWhS  lonv 
•\h  nnn'tf  ,n'73p  ur:D  'jnpo  turn  naT^n  'Jsa  3"j  mnyn  niV2  laji  s'^tr  D'Spts'n  isSrv  ia 
.12  inna  tSb"  "r^'pw  ''J?  sij''  I'snn  '3  ion'?  ,]ij'p  vSy  2in3  n«n  'a^Strn  .itany  n« 
n«  nSiy  ois*?  n^iaS  nav  'jdi  nnin  nya  D'm:on  is^Sb"  n  S"t  "n'jiy  ^hm„  'yann 
S»nt;'3  "ninS,,  vSj?  aina  ♦b'BTi  ,n3iyaS  n'^jyn  "jy  nma  Saip*  12  "o'sy,,  'conn  ,an'nm3 
vip  S'Dtya  manntf  nm:n  vn  12  o  "miDs'?  ant,,  'j,"2rrn  ,n3i2Sn  Sy  mma  D'anicn 
,.1=13  DnD"?  vn»  HK'B'ni  /D^aityNin  nnBits'  nj^atsri  nnn  nSx  .dc  n^r.v  micani  n'Linpn 
«D  V'-i  /"nstan  imn„  jicxin  Sy  :  nni  (D"2Dnn  nynS)  nnnvD  motr  D'min  vn  dh'Sj?  dj 
riD2n  iO"«r  ]vqS  ntn  12^2  ns'Sti'o  n'n  nnc  niy  i*?  nsca  iniap  nnxi  nntanS  nn'O  cnpnc 
'j,*'2in  ,"nnSi'i  p:T  ':'p  imo„  'tr'Scn  /'nt5'«  inio„  'Jtrn  ^nstan  ♦anv'?  pi  npr  nS  ntn 
ins  maaS  myo  B"iDn  dn  ,S"32  ihtb'  "yniiJO  janp  inio,,  'tj"anni  ,""i't3  nuaip  inioS,, 
,i3yoS  joiDDn  Dipo2  nns  So  inian  't'q'  inana  niao*?  nnn  s'sinc  nnx  1T2  nxrji  ono 
12121  .n2TD'?  IS  cipab  iivan  SaS  I'npiS  vn  niatr  nnn  "nm:„  2in3  nn  'tpti-n  "jyi 
«p'  D2D2t3B'  ,s'n  pj'pS  D»ai3on  nv^B'  nnaia  D'oanr,  o  sin  '"iS  o'laann  ]>t:^  kwiSsh 
.D'oana  naSnntt*  loix  D":o-ini  ,^''72  iha  naton  Sy  n'?^"B»  lan 
nianiS  D'tyonco  vnti*  D»:ic*n  nnsicyn  ]'3i?  nNanae'  nn«  ,'^y  nn  "iioiNn  (1 
nStrta  13"k  dk  ,Nintr  Sa  iS>dni  psn'ty  noa  nneitynS  T^cn'?  nnio  tn  pi  'a  ,'is2n  nuic 


Ky:n  ^31  n-a  "^tri  bs^S»:  pn  rr's  bu?  ;^np»3  vn  nvinnurn 

.1:::  pnKn  Dirty  ,D.Tm2K)a  n"i^3  nniDX:  p:r  ,D^i::?n  "in  "ijsd 
KMtt?  ns::nn  nxm  ,pDrntt  n\-itr  nnx  jnDs  nrp;^  ca 

.i:j2  jnxn  Dtr^  nn^n  lyn^i  ,inttu?3  nnrtr  np 
trStt?  ,Dn-!3  panxi  ^paxn  rs'^x  ?  D^innu?a  vn  j3\i^  0 
:  Dipttb  pDi»D  ,n^am  .onpir  j"^  nj33  ,3"iya3  DTiin  n-itaa 
K-ip2  na^T  ;  D^an  np'vr  ,nm3nn  -ip^  ,pbin  -ipir  ,|rSyn  -ij?t:r 
^an  jna  o^a  "jid^  btt?  n^mS^:  poi^aa  nir  v  can  "iptr  iia^? 
pxxv  nvnS  pTTipi  ,p3B»   can  12  :  -laix  apy^  p  itp^Sk 

.n''2n  instt  nnna 
,pnp  -iptr  „T'33*  nptt^  :  a-ira'?  paiao  psM  jnaiy^  ci 


y 


tDT      B'^1^  D 


nmsn  ik  D'Spa^n  qoa  ona  vnv  nis'nntr  ijidk  133  ,nnB^B'  "iiyy  Pity^JB'  (N 
J31  ,n3in3  DiaS  n»  Sam  «*?»  nooSo  n'^mi  nSyoSo  onsp  vnc  'jeo  nnciw  o'wipa 
iry  ntp'jB'  iBDOD  wipoa  n»ntr  no  Sa  mk  iiBon  n«tn  naconi  ,nT  Djrtao  D'oipy  vn 
'T  I'pnn  maaatfi  ,nipD2  onatan  o'omn  nno  nityy  vhv  n«3)  ,nnS  ipnpn  leDon 
miBw  J^^n  rn  no  tyicn  n  nairosi  ,(nmnn  nn  ons  cmS  nn'o  niirj;  newts'  SnyoB^ 
lyT  '3  ^HKij  riKTn  njcon  t3in  jo)  .nvinntrnn  vn  pipo  ht'ks  tfiBn  pi  ,j'B'Dnts'0 
lyo^i  ,n»:iDnpn  d'D'3  m  nSiVs'nb  2B'n:  n»n  13  iBoani  oncDon  1213  diikjhb'b  mc'^o 
»i3  iSiK  iH  ,mn  1BDD3  D'tTHp  cn3T  wpn  ,nKtn  rhc^n  naiosn  ns  ponn  aSo  Ton 
i:3DTa  DJ1  ;  D»rnp  nnsnS  ini::i3»  ms  13  neooa  trontPDn  *?»  iSto  yn  p'nonS  ma 
jionnS  mKinS  13  iBOoa  pn  nnann  S3  D'tpontron  "Thir teen-Club"  DBfa  man  mou 
.o'syn  in  n»n  kib'K  njj3n«  nno  'ooai  (.13  n33Di  vvn  S3  ynv 
poyno  H'n  pni  nuaipn  mnyS  Sidbi  mo  Sya  n'n  pan  ,^33  nK'yo  (3 
in'Sytr  myn  |o  D'^yn  n«  j'Ssco  vn  pi ;  d'Sidb  vn  D»2p"iin  ^H  n'ySinoniy  a^-^yn  "naS 
wnponi  "vyn  Ssinw  mpn  iiy  J'nb'  ikt  its'«3  iicki  cnpoa  niy  tajia  ]nKni  ;  natoS 
The  Pens   laiBDa  i»»yi   ;  nin  nion  n«  mSaS  nsiB'  »3B0   ,nD  ntn  in3m  ,Qnvon   n»o 

tateuch  etc.,  Chicago,  1894. 
,|inv  p  »DV  KaK  Nin  ,v^pa2  vn  nnyty  a"»  »3  loisn  ,D'innB'»  vn  }3^ni  (J 
vn  Dnyir  nyaiy  pi  n'oann  nyiS  SaK  /ac  trtpoa  vntp  D'Snan  canan  ]o  im 
nu  pSjy  ;  mna  »j(3io»n  n»ai  p^onaa  D>3vn  iviet?  nnis  ji*i  las  vn  nvinncnni 
D':iyi  oniDca  nyrn  airnn  ib'K  natron  d^i«i  ,nnin  ]«y3  nS»n  nisiBn  nJ33  nvinnrn 
pi  ipSn  D'r:3nm)  nn  i3  nnaia  o  nxia  ,BiEa  vn  xib'«  nioiKi  invo  dip  kSs 
.(loSinS  ncp  vax  otra  itrn'ei  ,nv2B'on  Sy  '''Kcna  nxn  ,nSapno  kSi  niyirnnD 
nincS  I'wpi  jnaa  vn  niSnan  'a  ,niSnjn  nma  nuop  ninSi  D'Kipa  ,pB'DK»D    (T 


^  'V'^^ 


D^bv^  pns  17 


iSs^  p3^pb  Di-ip  ,nbi:7  ^Snb  ]'^yp  pn  ;  naisb'?  ibs^  n:inf2h 
ibs^  n::nttS  n::ni2  ;n*?'ij?  ^bn:S  iba^  ,nbis?  ^bnab  ^prp"? 
,]''h)r]b  ibD-"  p^mb  3np  ,-:tr  ntrjyxs^  p'^'in  pa  ;nbir  ''^tijS 

♦n^j^nnb  nscn^b  nscnxs  ,bpnS  anpn  nnx  ]^:ih)n  ,hb::r[  m   /:tt? 
nnn  ;  i^vt:^  nb^vb  ,nf2r\n  nmo  ^js*?  iK2:X23tt?  my^  (3 
mi2^  73  -1X^^31  n^rtt  »'?J"in  nx7tt^s  o^btriTD  ;  ]'^b'\n  ,n^2n 

♦pbin  T\:^n 
;mKion  niD^nn  ;m'?ir  p"a''K  ,mt:?2  x:ra3iy  ntr^   0 

bnn  nr^3  ;  nnmD  msTin  ,niS^3:  p-ia^x  pbia:^  X2ria3 

n2inni3i  ,000221  niiaipa  ntynpS  ne'np  ]«2  Snan  v^v  >th  ,1SXDJB'  mv»  Ct< 
ioi«  idS  ,nSp  ncnp  pT  none*  onan  nmon  ne-npS  lairiitp  mj?o  10  nupS  ic^Sm  w^iy 
D'SpB'n  na'nS  qoan  ]o  nesnn  niawB'  i3"n  ,ona"in  'jb'O  me'  nij^'B'a  rioan  n^jd  dnc 
nam  mSij?  pi  paip  nnotp  nana  myo  non  noc  cb-hd  t«  itnzT]  mtr  nanan  na'nSi 
eioaa  i2p»  pS  /toaiN*?  I'inia  dji  lan  Sa  v:ip  on'Oiau'  o'^pirn  eps  jo  mian  n-^-np 
ncnp  ni^^hnv  n:ia'?i  o'lfy  ny  *iain  lai  ^o'Sptrn  qoa  |d  nnion  ntrnp  latr  nan  mn 
njB'on  aitrnn  ncx  Saa  pnn  Kin  pi  ,pip  n'B'ao  p*i  o'syni  ja-ip  K'n  naiaSntf  '3sa  o'syno 
mi  .nSpn  ]o  mionn  Ton  natn  pen  nva  ]aSi  ,n3itrKinD  inv  ntrnp  n^itrnc  nxSn 
nm'Dj?  lanai    ,nimv  nsno   mion  ntwip  lac  lan  j)Dana  map"?  S'h  /'I'onnS/  moix 

.'"«cn  tfiTBa  n«i  dhbb'i  nnsjirn  hv 
B"  ,n<3na  non  ia  o'aSinn  ai"i»  n'an  ina  HSOity  qoan  ,nJ2r\2  nniD  'JD^  (3 
ONI  onn'jsa  n»3nan  ixts*'  vh  wv-tpn  tiaa  »a  'aso  ,vSin  noni  odnd  Sea  eioan  »3  lyc^ 
n'j'ooi  jnati'Sa  nij?a  nonan  Sy  iniN  iS'^n  *iaa  pso  'Sa  ,]anpn  mooS  na'nn  ]o  iniSta: 
ptjD  'nSa  N'n  nnnan  nnio  »3bS  inn  oipoa  tioan  kvo3  d«  a'^Ktrn  ;  I'SinS  qoan  k^' 
nio«  Saa  p  atrna  laSi  ,i3p»  'aw  itpyo  qoaa  ik  o'aipn  an  ityw  /:»>  itryo  nij?ao 
iSv»  '?N*iB>»  Sac  ,^3"in  nyB'3  oSBni'  nisma  oipo  'jaa  Ksojn  qoan  nrn  oytsoi  .njtrn 
'rax  /D'miKno  nnso  naKic  ann  inK  caSin  /aB*  nB'yo  eioa  nx  onx   i«'a'i  hi-h  noB> 

.pSin  tioan  ,niDn2n  pitr  nSit  ,n3B'n  mo*  Saa 
aiB'Hi  aima  iB'a  x^oa  dm  pb  ,mH  Sa^  Tyn  'jaa  I'^^axJ  D'oScn  'naT  o  jj,"    (j 
inipnn'  p?  ,CnnN  nS'Si  mo'  '3B'd  ini'  V'l)  ini3  NinB'  nvn"?  Sia'  o  jyi  ,o'oWS  iniN 
nn'n  nSiyny  mtyai    .inia  'Kiia   nsnvn  n'aS  ix'sinS  i'?av  ^i-o'?  nn«  nb^h  my  peoa 


D'^bp^ 


,QXffh  itrsn  ,mSir  na  rnpib  y  na  rtrip  vn  na  nan:   ♦naiaS 
sin  ntri««  :  Sn:  jnD  n'ln^  ^-n  :r"na  int  ;  canab  nmym 

^:'*r  ik::x23  ;  D^:nDb  nmym  ,nz'h  n^^sn  ^m'^iy  in  npb"  ,n?:c?x 

P]D51  n^K  P1DD«  "laiST  ^D-'^nDS    D^KI  Mb    DtTJ^  :  D'^^'^p  D^DinS 


^  "  O  -I       K'  1  T  B 

nine'  nhv  aisp  iiytp  c»  tm  pan  ht'k  '"^y  nn  nosi  mj  08  Saw  ,mip  ms  iwm  ma  n« 
Buchler  hv  i"isD:i  /D'anr"?  I'n  n  1 3  3  1  p  n  "js  Sty  nmyn  'a  nacrDn  layoeri  aam  ,nto 
,nmj?nD  n'ananS  nn'nr  nhnjn  mi'yym  nta  D«pDj?nD  vn  D'jna  noa  Kiipn  Kva»  ,S^3n 
'Sya  D'anantyi  o'inanS  ipSnn:  'no  jai  /tfipoa  nt  S'aca  vniy  nnni'D  niae^  noai 
cu'styo  vntr  o«  ,Sna  invn  pSnn  nw  :;nTa  oiasyS  onpSa  O'uyn  o'jnan  nx  iSta  yntn 
B""y)  ,n«o  an  n»n   nniyn  maoi   /Ikd   niyp   miay   nn»nr  maanpn   miayo   Dosy 


/rn^  pis 

,r\:T'n  mxD^  nx^rn  nn?:iK  o^osm  ;  n^i^xs   ^n-i   nai  ,]vh^r\ 

,|mnts  i72i)2K2"^  ,Snn  nr^ni  ,p-iint3  p^n^tn^i  ,pK»ti:  r2£!::x3^ 

♦p'li:'?  pp'^TiDJs  ,ptori»  jH^  ^3sa^  ,j''Kaio  pin^ca^i 

•'i-i  nDT  ,|n^by  ,|n"in^  -[-ins  xbtr  ;  jmnio  ,n^by  -|n-r  ,p>5X2ta 

♦m-apS  jnnvx:n  ,nr-ix:m 
nwSu?3  n^ia  .13  tom^  ,-itry  nx73-iK3  nssrastr  j-idq  0 
'^n  ;  b^DiDDi  n]itr  nn  j-m  nn  pn  ,paipi ;  'r^ntoiai  nsitr  -itry 
nn  tomtr  -i:ry  ntnann  ,-i^a  na  tom^  ,n3tr3  nrnS  -itry  ns73-iK 
*p3D3  11  ^-in  ,p3D7  n-ntrp  riK^x::  ,TXi 
D^3B3  nniK  pb''ntDx:  ,nx?:iDn  nSin  nxX2tD3^  nsng  ct 
nmx  pb^Dto)!:  ,n«ttiton  2x2  hk^dji:^  nsi  ,t^  nniK  j^d^j^isi 
::i  bp  nmx  pntoir  n^in  nn\-i  dxi  ^b-^ns  nmx  pnioitri  ,pn3 

♦^rx2tr  p-iB 

o  jj?«i  ,«Offl  KiHB'  N'n  yn'  (8  i"u  Nip'i)  nmna  latan  atn  pn  ^ppnn  ^3  (N 
»pn2  omnta  lya*  iihv  ncsH  »ki  ,nv  nv  oStpn'a  Wats'  ain  Dj?n  I'a  |»a?  vn  nW  itrcs  »h 
oStyn*  nvnaunanaa'M  ,xn3an  n»  ruu'an  uy'Dtrn  ,DSB'n»nmm3  naSno  nyn  atn  hv 
nSi  ]v'7j,'n  piwa  loS  n'?n  n2»T  'ndib  Satf  ion  d"i  nam  .laoo  Sj?  p^onai  nmStj'a 
Sjinn  nyao  'a  ,DnQiK  n'oan  SaK  ,nmnun  nx  iwDta*  nh  ]]}oh  nnns  nmniai  D'pitra 
vhun  pioi  ,iB'nS  Sinai  ,5?son2  laSn  nmntsn  "jai  nomn  ns  nx  O'NOtan  iSnaS  lyap 
Dipoa  wsrojn  pnnty   psjD  I's  ]3i    ,D'3Sno  amntants'   nipoa  iN!iD3B'  pinn"?   cinS  pstr 

.sao  «intj'  jD'aSno  D'xoQntr 
mn''?  nnx  nS^aun  n'aS  vn  n'sin  »itf  '3  wnoS  njcon  n«Ta  ,D^^3n  ^3  (3 
n'DSin  i:3n  p'ji  ,n'3B>  ixoann  D'xatan  nx  ]n"Sy  nj?a  onintan  lyae'  nSb*  ,n»^y^  nnwi 
n'6j?2i  Nou  «:{03n  j'saa  I'San  *73  vntt>  mnm  ^K'ne  snna  t^nsn  bs  loiSa  ann  nni* 
^n>»Sj:n  nma  ijt^jaa  03  no  nsaitaS  jnnrait'  d'Sdh  Sj?  ini  ^iino  Ksaan  jmna  vntf 
xStr  }>2ipn  1K1  ,nj4t  inx'^c'  natraa  joc^  dj  nrn  cytam  ;  nnptna  »S3  j'N'sia  j'kb'  'jsa 
ns  »3iaian  b'itb  »e  Sy  D3*in  udx'  i"nn  .xana  trne  i2'«  '3  ,»in  naiB'  la  umty^  Mm 
d;i  i3'«i  nsT  laana  nnwi  ,ntsiti'B3  nacan  nx  ncne  }3Si  ,nNB  pirn  ttini   riKTn  nairan 

•latfiTEja  p3a   Nin  DJty  ,bniv^  m«Bn  m'sa 
awa  yjaty  »a  Kip»  "ntjaiuS  jic«n„  ':"-it:'  nsamn  -ih^  pay  ,1N0D3{J>  nsilE    (T 
8'n  na  yjian  /'nxaitan  max  'as,,  nsnpa  n'h  "na  n^M„  :  wn  onipSna  mDi  ,n8aitan 
131  ,'tJ"SB'„  J31  ,n«aitsV  «aty„  K*ip»  jirsia  yjiani  /iitrx*!,,  sin  la   piam  "nxaitan  aw,, 

.nnnta  moa  i*i«an»  nan  'taici  ,"'y<ai„ 


^-rais  min^  ^an  ;  o^tt^tr  ^nat  msp:  ,nibir  D'^21  ,nn  SaS 

h^t2  pK3  hod:  in^ir  i3^pnn  ,j^n-im  nrnx  pn^ia  nvn'?  nm 

in«  nn  ,p-f  n^a  i3^pnn  anm  nrntr  .pya^  ^3-1  nttj^    0 
j^Dnp  ,D^3D3  nap  nbin  ,D^n  nriaa  inSiy  nStrir'  nD3  :  |na 
,D^n2i  n^:m  ,nar  -1:  pi ;  "iin^::  S^x:  pnnp  ,isS  axi  ,ib'^tt 

;  nin^2{  S^tt  r^'"^P  '^^'^  ^^"^  '^^'^^  r^^'^P  °'2°^  ''"^  ^"  °^ 

•^^tt  nnnp  inm^  xnntt^  n»tt^  bn:  pD  br  i^in  p"i  n^a  "sim 

.nanp  nn^n  na-'b^?!  p^^nr  btrss  ,-iaiK  ni}n^  ^2-1    ma^^i 

mxa  in^TT  mSioan  pi^pn  Syi  ,n-iax3  p'^'pitt  i.t  s7u?  nisn 
n«   p^aoa  prpn  hk  p^aoan  ,-ittiK  ^dv  "2-1  ;  ma^:^  Su?a 

.mSioan 


12K  N^aa  n«  isS  /D'oSty  nnaK"?  pi  D»nn:S  nms  c»nn30  vn  «Si  natan  '^y  S'Ss  n'jiy 
j'B'a'in  ]3'?i  D'nnaS  ]'nnja  rn  ,tS3ik  D'anan  vn  naaatr  ,nNBnn  'j^n  ,nSij?  Kinr*  ij^t  n^ty 
ins  nrrn  ,'im3  B'trna  m«sa:n  n»  hhs  d'Ssik  vn  nS  Dias  d«i  ,N^n  nntsn  satr 
H'n  »b  nStt'n'a  t«b>  ,i'73«i  in«  lay  d«  ]nn  yii  jyaS  ,«sain  itran  in  hn  uyarnS 
ns'nn  m'H  nya  jnsn  riK  y^rh  d'Si3'  u"n  «•?  mtya  pi  ,«'nn  n'?ONn  "jy  mH  mtr  2"n 
nas  Sax  ds  Sa«  ,ma'nn  rrn  kS  ni'^iyna  o  /CanaS  Sa«:n  nsT  »Nnn  nn-'n  N»nty  »3Ba 
itraa  inn  nn  isan  aaxi  .S'Sa  nSia  nvnS  ntsBcac  »'n  nSiya  Natr  r^n  t«  /of^B' 
iB'aa  sinty  ann  inM  paSin  p:s  t<Si  «»n  na'nn  ik  nHt?  Skib"  ny  hs2  ssajtr  rSin 
n'nS  iniN  laryi  n'jaj  K'ne*  'aea  lannS  wvn  nS  Matr  trinS  r»  DSir  ia«  "jy  in  /ntsinty 
in«  nnaNa  dj  I'aSin  ,nana  ntrantr  ,7aia  ih  ;  nacn  ma'  Saa  iidk  pSi  «inB'  laa  mtyn 
•nan  Snib"  "vyn  »»':«  antr  mpaa  ,ntaintt'  ntr^a  Kins'  ann 
anp  issaitr  nnarn  niana  Sy  insp^na  pnu'  wnin'  't  /idi  nKV»JB>  nona  (1 
n'HDBn  la  ins  Kin  'a  Kin  'xni"?  anpe*  in'nDt  nN  I'anpa  "jnib"  "jac  nyn  ,nDB? 
n:!^  ja  inv  iS  v<v  nn^v  nana  Sy  nSi  n:&  p  lat  Sy  »pn  inaia  h^n  ,in'SyaS  naNJty 
nSiyn  p  id  ,'7»Sa  nSia  N'ntr  nSiy*?  aipv  o  anoiKi  ma  na  in'ane  o'aann  ik  ^nnx 

•inma  «Si  cmpa  vSyai  «»n 
.  ij  ,1  Hip'ia  naK:n  8»n  ina  nnaa  ,nDB'  bnj  pa  (1 
,n'aann  nu  n'j'ya  wSi  ntrnp  h"?  na  i'«  minn  la  o  dk  ,mQN3  r^yiD  CT 
,ni'7iDEn  i'3«pn  nan  ,ns  maia  nitrantr  lann  ip'yi  ,mBKa  D'cantra  canan  vnc  'jsa 
onvn  nya  i'?de3  psD  'Satr  ,iaiana  onpSi  mya  ahv  launa*  in«  niSiDs  ii<sa3  nx  S'n 
T  'a  jyi  /iia'S  'jtra  n'nnn  laip'  annNi  laian  f?y  nninn«  pw  tn^  lann  t  nnn  lao 
p'-?  ,ia  niayS  iSa'  vh  nnaian  antr  nnann  la  n'n  ntn  lanni  /navSyn  Sy  Tan  tripnn 
Dunn  'tsisi    .iniaa  naSn  y»  •]»  ,nTa  Di  phm  'dv  'ii  ,mnva  napna  nxt  ipn"?  laiuin 

.oaipaa  n«an»  D'i'po 


m2?n  ^i^i 


K^^:  Sd  bri  ,nnK]  px:^3  d^3^i  o^rn^  byi  ,nsio  Tap  nans 
Dn:rp  nanm  n^x  c^pn-ix  nDix  ,pioin  r^nxi  on'^r:?  kx:^:i 
12;b^^  ,n:^  ban  pri:?  a^ntri  ,n^u?p3  xin-i  ^n^i  nsa'^i^si  ,ns:K 

,D^:s2  pj-i^r^  San  Dns:iK  ^XJ2U?  n*a  ,pn2  pa  ,q^2sd  pD  ,nsoiiDn 
p]-iiy'  ban  cn^ix  SSn  n^2  ;  pnD  nxttitDn  3K3  sttio:^  ^la  pin 
♦D'^^aa  nsaitsn  nbin  xaio:^  ^a  pin  ,pin3 
,D^3SD  pD  ,nKaiton  nK3  x^toju^  nx  ,n)aiK  "iir':'x  "d*^    (t 
Dtt^  /inxato  mptt  "1I21S  K3^pj7  ^3n  ^-c^sa  1^1^^  ,y^nn  pn 

btn  ,n"ita3  nioiabi  traa  ^^na  pjrr']  n^^nn  naj^  cn 
D^^rnn  •'•^rx-i  bu^i  ^nnrxsn  niDabi  ^^m  ■•^cntt  p^n^j  pscia 
pK  Dmsnm  n-'^ptt^n  ♦nisa^^s  nDt^n  sis-id  nnni::  p;n^3 
nmssm  n^n:i  n^rDi  pn  ntrya  bnx  ,n^nn  ^3Bn  KSi<  p:m3 
n^r>p^  tr^-tpssn  ♦ninn  ■'333  kS^t  p2  ,n''3n  •'isa  j^3  pjm3 
,tt>np  nmsD  nxsixn  niaix  ppiau?  ■•a-i  ;  tt^np  nt  nn  ,Dm33i 

♦tt^np  |rx 

Dai  ,«»<2n  jitS'Sa  mm  nsiron  o  'oS^n^a  iok*  naicn  ima  ,i"3tj'T  (n 
nan  lo  am  Stf  oiaa  Tonn  nx  iptsriB'  no  dji  ntn  rutron  riK  aicn*  (:  s  j'Sin)  «Saaa 
ii'«  im«  ]''?'2t3on  D'jnan  nan  o  nKi»  .b'y^  uiaTtr  Buchler  isoa  nxnn  dSiki  ,i8an 
,D  « t3  ty  a  nnixai  mSnj  onyS  typ'nni  dikotu  isjon  njtron  n«  i:nvo  nS  o  ,Katu 
nmnntr  naSna  d;i  SKi'DC'  'n  io»  naa  o  ,■7^3  nan  i:»n  nSip'?  p«n  y  p  a  n  1  '7  pi 
10  i33»x  am  'Saa  Tonn  n>*  mpB'nS  d;i  ,dvoiso  leDont?  ns  a"xc'0  ,mx  ':a  iitrSa  nian 
Dca  tr"o  '"«Bna  hki)  ,yy•i^  ,B'npoa  vntr  am  '"731  nn'tfyn  »an  »e'?  ,D'«''JEnn  nnan 
iBDi*'£3na  Hitap  yatao  n>n  o  nrnb  Si3»  nanen  n«!iinS  nasptr  ion  ui\  ,(n3^»iio  ii.s;in 
.msotu  i2Dn  nits-DHB'  iJt«sa  x"?  SSa  ima  o  ;  nsisa  mB'n3  in  pSiB'n  nanoa  nny 
^I'jKH  nviB-on  ^nc  nNan»  Tan  naoaa  ,inK0lt3  DipD  /Q'JBl  s^-iK^^  ban    (r  /I 

.JOipa   DC*    >3 

d;i  una  nmaai  nts'yo    .nna  'oaa  ixan'  n'h  »BDia  pjyS  xinB"  aian3n  pay    (n 

•Dn'niasa  nSna  ^73  dhS  rrn  y'^ty  /D'l'jn  pan  riN  S3S3S  n^an  'jsa  nSe' 


Princeton  Theological  Seminary  Libraries 


1    1012  01249  6875 


MWWWM 


