IflMIMnllMIIUUIIIMHllUOIIlHJIHIIIIIIIMMIIIMIIMIUimillMMHinilMUimflllUi^ 


tihravy  of  Che  trheolojical  ^emmarjp 

PRINCETON  •  NEW  JERSEY 


•a^^t- 


PRESENTED  BY 


John  Stuart  Conning,  D.D. 

BM  500  .R6  l?18^.1-4 
Talmud. 

New  edition  of  the 

Babylonian  Talmud 


NEW    EDITION 


^0, 


OF  THE 


Babylonian  Talmud 


Original  Uejt,  ]£Mte5,  CorrecteD,  jformulateO,  an5 
Xrranslate&  tnto  Englisb 


MICHAEL  L.  RODKINSON 


SECTION   MOED   (FESTIVALS) 
TRACT    ERUBIN 


Volume   IIL 


Boston 

THE  TALMUD  SOCIETY 

1918 


EXPLANATORY   REMARKS. 

In  our  translation  we  adopted  these  principles: 

y.  Tenan  of  the  original — We  have  learned  in  a  Mishna;  Tania~-Wt  have 
learned  in  a  Boraitha;  Itemar — It  was  taught. 

2.  Questions  are  indicated  by  the  interrogation  point,  and  are  immediately 
followed  by  the  answers,  without  being  so  marked. 

3.  When  in  the  original  there  occur  two  statements  separated  by  the  phrase, 
Lishna  achrena  or  IVaibayith  Aetna  ox  Ikha  ^'a;wrt  (literally,  "otherwise  interpreted  "), 
we  translate  only  the  second. 

4.  As  the  pages  of  the  original  are  indicated  in  our  new  Hebrew  edition,  it  is  not 
deemed  necessary  to  mark  them  in  the  English  edition,  this  being  only  a  translation 
from  the  latter. 

5.  Words  or  passages  enclosed  in  round  parentheses  (  )  denote  the  explanation 
rendered  by  Rashi  to  the  foregoing  sentence  or  word.  Square  parentheses  [  ]  contain 
commentaries  by  authorities  of  the  last  period  of  construction  of  the  Gemara. 


Copyright,  1903,  b» 
MICHAEL  L.  RODKINSON. 


Copyright  1916,  by 
P<EW  TALMUD  PUBLISHING  SOCIETY 


CONTENTS. 


PAGE 

Introduction  to  Tract  Erubin, v 

Synopsis  of  Subjects  of  Volume  III. — Tract  Erubin,       .       ix 

CHAPTER   I. 

Regulations  concerning  the  Width  and  Height  of  an 
Erub  constructed  in  Streets  inhabited  solely  by 
Israelites,  and  Regulations  concerning  the  Con- 
struction OF  AN  Erub  by  a  Caravan,  .         .         .         i 

CHAPTER   II. 

Regulations  concerning  the  Use  of  a  Well  and  a  Gar- 
den ON  the  Sabbath .40 

CHAPTER   III. 

Regulations  concerning  Wherewith  and  Where  an  Erub 
may  be  Made.  Whereby  an  Erub  becomes  Invalid. 
The  Erub  of  Limits,  with  its  Conditions.  When  a 
Festival  or  New-Year  Precedes  the  Sabbath,  .        .       62 

CHAPTER   IV. 

Regulations  concerning  the  Overstepping  of  the  Legal 
Limits  on  the  Sabbath,  and  Measurements  of  the 
Sabbath-Distance, 93 

CHAPTER   V. 

Regulations  concerning  the  Boundaries  of  a  Town  and 

THE  Measurements  of  the  Legal  Limits,     .         .         .119 


iv  CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER   VI. 

PAGE 

Regulations  concerning  the  Erubin  of  Courts  and  Part- 
nerships,     145 

CHAPTER   VII. 

Regulations  concerning  the  Preparation  of  Erubin  for 
Courts  separated  by  Apertures,  Walls,  Ditches,  and 
Straw-Ricks.      Combination  of  Erubin  in  Alleys,     .     179 

CHAPTER   VIII. 

Regulations  concerning  the  Erubin  of  Limits.  The 
Quantity  of  Food  required  for  such  Erubin,  and 
Further  Regulations  concerning  Erubin  of  Courts,     198 

CHAPTER   IX. 

Regulations    concerning    the    Combining    of    Roofs    on 

Sabbath 214 

CHAPTER   X. 
Sundry  Regulations  concerning  the  Sabbath,        .        .     227 


INTRODUCTION    TO    TRACT    ERUBIN. 

This  Tract,  virtually  the  third  of  the  Sabbath  series,  treats 
of  subjects  similar  to  those  discussed  in  the  first  two.  The  main 
point  of  difference  is,  that  most  of  the  laws  laid  down  in  the 
preceding  two  volumes  are  founded  on  biblical  behests,  while 
those  instituted  in  the  present  volume  are  of  purely  rabbinical 
origin,  notwithstanding  the  assertion  of  a  solitary  individual  who 
appears  in  the  course  of  a  debate  and  declares  that  the  legal-limit 
branch  of  the  Erub  is  a  biblical  enactment. 

A  remarkable  feature  of  the  Tract  is  the  exposition  of  the 
manner  in  which  the  shrewd  sages  circumvene  the  rigorous  pro- 
hibitions contained  in  the  Tract  Sabbath  and  how  they  take 
advantage  of  every  loophole  afforded  them  through  imperfec- 
tions in  the  law,  at  the  same  time  avoiding  any  palpable  infrac- 
tion of  the  law  itself. 

As  already  explained  in  the  introduction  to  Volume  I.,  the 
restrictions  with  which  the  Sabbath  was  surrounded  had  their 
unquestionable  political  import,  but  their  very  rigor  made  the 
sages,  than  whom  none  knew  the  people  better,  doubt  whether 
enforcement  and  still  less  voluntary  observance  could  ever  be 
possible.  It  became  necessary,  therefore,  to  find  some  way  of 
modifying  the  law,  not  directly,  but  by  the  institution  of  other 
in  a  measure  counteracting  laws.  The  solution  for  this  problem 
presented  itself  in  the  "Erub"  (literally  "commixture") 
ordinances,  the  first  results  of  which  were  to  bring  about  a  dis- 
tinction between  the  different  kinds  of  ground  inhabited  by  man. 
Lines  of  demarcation  between  public,  unclaimed,  and  private 
ground  and  ground  which  was  under  no  particular  jurisdiction 
were  strictly  drawn.  Whatever  ground,  however,  could  be  made 
by  hook  or  crook  to  come  under  the  category  of  private  ground 
was  eagerly  included,  as  in  the  latter  things  could  be  carried 
about  at  will.  In  order,  therefore,  to  have  as  much  private 
ground  as  possible,  each  man  having  an  interest  in  public  ground 
would  relinquish  or  transfer  his  right  to  his  neighbor  and  thus 
make  it  communal  or  private  property.    Of  course,  this  could  be 


vi  INTRODUCTION    TO   TRACT    ERUBIN. 

done  only  among  Israelites,  and  where  a  Gentile  had  an  interest 
in  a  piece  of  coveted  ground,  his  share  had  to  be  bought  out- 
right. 

It  was  this  desire  to  be  in  the  same  neighborhood,  yea,  even 
on  the  same  grounds,  that  laid  the  foundation  of  the  subsequent 
Ghettos,  still  flourishing  in  most  of  the  large  cities  of  the  world. 
How  this  communal  living  was  fostered  may  be  readily  under- 
stood, when  it  is  stated  that  the  sages  permitted  the  execution 
of  a  written  instrument  in  Palestine  on  the  Sabbath,  under  ordi- 
nary circumstances  a  grave  offence,  where  a  piece  of  property 
had  to  be  purchased  from  a  Gentile  for  communal  purposes. 
(See  Gitin,  8b,  and  Schulchan  Aruch  Orach  Chaym,  306,  §11.) 

The  name  of  this  Tract  may  be  said  to  have  a  certain  signifi- 
cance. The  Hebrew  word  "  Erub  "  has  a  variety  of  meanings, 
among  them  "  commixture,"  as  stated,  "  agreeable,"  "  secure," 
and  "  safeguard."  As  the  discussions  in  the  Tract  will  demon- 
strate, either  one  of  these  meanings  may  be  applied  to  the  appel- 
lation of  the  Tract  and  still  express  the  purpose  of  the  laws 
ordained.  By  those  laws  the  observance  of  the  Sabbath  was 
made  "  secure,"  they  proved  a  "  safeguard  "  against  "  amalga- 
mation "  or  "  mingling  "  with  other  nations,  and  by  virtue  of  the 
modification  to  the  laws  of  Sabbath  which  was  brought  about, 
the  observance  of  the  Sabbath  was  made  more  "  agreeable. " 
Several  other  meanings  might  be  utilized  in  the  same  manner, 
but  lest  they  seem  far-fetched  they  are  omitted. 

Another  peculiarity  of  this  Tract  is  that  under  no  circum- 
stances and  on  no  occasion  is  the  derivation  of  a  law  enacted  in 
this  particular  Tract  inquired  into,  and  unlike  other  tracts  there 
will  not  be  found  a  single  query  as  to  where  the  Mishna  derives 
the  law.  For  want  of  other  sources  the  institution  of  the  Erub 
has  been  attributed  to  King  Solomon,  vide  page  51. 

The  main  subjects  of  discussion  in  the  following  pages  will 
be  how  this  Erub  shall  be  effected,  what  materials  shall  be  used 
to  bring  about  a  commixture,  how  entries  (by  which  is  meant 
the  entry  to  a  court  or  a  yard  where  an  aggregation  of  families 
reside)  are  to  be  arranged,  and  the  like. 

Altogether  there  are  four  kinds  of  Erubin,  only  three  of  which 
will  be  discussed  in  this  treatise.  They  are  :  The  combining  of 
courts,  the  combining  of  limits,  and  the  combining  of  streets, 
also  known  as  junction.  The  other  commixture  is  called  com- 
bining of  cookery,  which  will  be  treated  at  length  in  Tract  Yom 
Tob. 


INTRODUCTION    TO   TRACT   ERUBIN.  vii 

The  combining  of  courts  deals  with  the  regulations  by  the 
observance  of  which  various  houses  standing  in  one  court  are 
joined  together  into  one  common  ground,  thus  enabling  the 
householders  to  carry  and  convey  articles  to  and  from  one 
another.  The  combining  of  limits  treats  of  the  regulations 
through  w^hich  the  distance  of  two  thousand  ells,  beyond  which 
no  Israelite  is  allowed  to  travel  on  the  Sabbath,  may  be  legally 
extended. 

The  combining  of  streets  treats  of  the  rules  to  be  observed 
in  the  case  of  narrow  streets  and  public  places  which  can  be 
turned  into  private  ground  under  certain  conditions. 

Finally,  it  may  be  well  to  add  that,  of  all  the  difficult  and 
complicated  treatises  in  the  Talmud,  the  Tract  Erubin  is  by  far 
the  most  difficult,  and  in  a  great  many  places  almost  incompre- 
hensible to  other  than  the  most  careful  students. 

The  Editor. 

New  York,  September,  1897. 


SYNOPSIS  OF  SUBJECTS 


VOLUME  III.— TRACT  ERUBIN* 


CHAPTER  I. 


MiSHNA  I.  treats  ;  If  an  entry  be  higher  than  twenty  ells.  The  size  of 
the  height  is  based  upon  the  door  and  the  porch  of  the  pillars  of  the  temple, 
or  palaces  of  kings.  If  the  cross-beam  was  partly  above  twenty  ells,  and 
partly  below.  The  ell  used  at  a  booth  and  an  entry  measures  five  spans,  but 
the  ell  used  at  Kilaim  is  six  spans.  The  several  prescribed  quantities, 
the  intervention  of  articles,  and  the  ordinances  concerning  the  walls  of 
entries  and  booths  were  given  by  Moses  at  the  Mount  Sinai,  and  also  Gud, 
Lavud,  and  crooked  walls.  About  Kal  Vochomer  {d  fortiori),  which  comes 
very  often  in  the  Talmud.  The  people  there  were  ignorant,  and  had  to  be 
given  a  liberal  interpretation  of  the  ordinance.  How  must  entries  facing 
public  ground  be  combined  by  an  Erub  ?  May  the  rigorous  ordinances  of 
two  Tanaim  be  applied  to  one  case  ?  What  was  decided  about  a  village  of 
a  shepherd,  where  was  an  entry  which  opened  into  a  vacant  yard.  May  the 
space  underneath  the  cross-beam  be  used  "i  The  law  about  an  entry  which 
was  provided  with  a  number  of  side-beams  (with  the  illustration).  The  law 
about  a  missing  portion  of  the  wall,  perceptible  from  the  inside  or  from  the 
outside  (with  their  illustrations).  Whether  an  entry  measuring  twenty  ells 
could  be  reduced  to  thirteen  and  a  third  if  built  as  illustrated  ?  What  R. 
Jehudah  taught  to  R.  Hyya,  the  son  of  Rabh,  and  how  Rabh  corrected. 
How  an  apparent  door  is  to  be  made, 1-22 

MiSHNA  II.  What  is  required  to  legalize  the  carrying  within  an  entry. 
How  the  sages  were  very  lenient  with  all  things  pertaining  to  water. 
Whether  water  may  be  taken  from  an  arm  of  the  sea  which  enters  a  court- 
yard. There  is  a  tradition  about  an  entry  that  can  be  legalized  by  a  side  or 
cross  beam.  Why  was  Rabbi,  or  Rabh,  more  sagacious  than  his  colleagues  ? 
Why  were  the  school  of  Hillel  favored  ?  Because  modest.  Two  years  the 
schools  of  Shammai  and  Hillel  disputed  whether  it  were  better  that  man  had 
not  been  created  as  he  was, 22-28 

*  See  introduction  to  synopsis  in  Tract  Sabbath,  Vol.  I.,  p.  xxix. 

iz 


X  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

MiSHNA  III.  The  cross-beam  must  be  wide  enough  to  hold  a  half  of  a 
brick.  About  a  cross-beam  put  up  over  an  entry  but  not  reaching  the  oppo- 
site wall.  Anything  measuring  three  spans  in  circumference  is  one  hand 
in  width, 28-31 

MiSHNAS  IV.,  v.,  VI.,  and  VII,  The  height  and  thickness  of  the  side- 
beam.  How  much  is  meant  by  thickness  "  whatever  it  may"?  About  a 
side-beam  standing  of  itself.  There  was  a  pillar  about  which  Abayi  and 
Rabha  differed  all  their  lives.  Side-beams  may  be  made  out  of  anything. 
Every  open  space  ten  spans  wide  may  be  used  as  an  entry.  The  open  space 
must  not  exceed  in  extent  the  fence  proper.  How  can  it  be  that  there  should 
be  a  contradiction  and  still  the  Halakha  should  prevail  according  to  it  ?  A 
fence  may  also  be  constructed  with  three  ropes,  or  with  cane-laths.  Any 
partition  not  constructed  on  the  principle  of  warp  and  shoot,  whether  it  is  a 
partition  ?  I  swear  by  the  law  of  Moses,  and  by  the  prophets,  and  by  the 
Hagiographa,  that  Rabh  said  this.  It  makes  absolutely  no  difference,  be  it 
a  caravan  or  an  individual,  in  an  inhabited  place  or  in  the  desert.  The 
four  privileges  granted  to  warriors  in  the  camp,      ....        31-39 

CHAPTER   II. 

MiSHNA  I.  How  enclosures  are  to  be  made  around  wells  (and  illustra- 
tions.) To  make  an  enclosure  around  a  well  of  rain-water  is  permitted  only 
to  the  pilgrims  to  Jerusalem,  Adam,  the  first  man,  had  a  dual  face.  The 
Lord  was  sponsor  to  him.  The  fires  of  hell  cannot  gain  access  to  the  bodies 
of  the  sinners  of  Israel ;  Abraham  the  patriarch,  seeing  that  they  are  cir- 
cumcised, rescues  them.  How  much  in  size  must  the  larger  part  of  a  cow 
be  reckoned  ?  May  things  be  carried  from  a  courtyard  opening  into  the 
enclosure  around  a  well,  and  vice  versa  f  I  have  heard  that  ye  go  to  the 
Synagogue  of  Daniel  on  the  Sabbath  ;  upon  what  grounds  do  ye  do  this  ? 
In  the  time  that  Solomon  the  king  ordained  the  law  of  Erubin,  a  heavenly 
voice  was  heard,  Solomon  said  three  thousand  proverbs  for  every  one  of 
the  biblical  commandments.  The  commandments  are  to  be  fulfilled  to-day, 
and  the  rewards  will  be  in  the  world  to  come.  If  a  public  thoroughfare 
passes  through  an  enclosure.  The  paths  by  which  the  mountains  of  Pales- 
tine are  ascended  do  not  come  under  the  head  of  public  ground,       .       40-55 

MiSHNAS  II.  and  III.  An  enclosure  of  boards  must  be  made  only  for  a 
public  well.  The  difference  in  the  opinions  of  R.  Jehudah  b.  Babah,  R, 
Aqiba,  R,  Eliezer,  and  R.  Jose,  about  a  garden  or  woodshed  over  seventy 
ells  square.  How  can  one  hundred  ells  in  length  by  fifty  by  fifty  in  breadth 
(Ex.  xxvii.  18)  be  understood  ?  If  a  woodshed  of  more  than  two  saahs' 
capacity  was  fenced  in  for  a  dwelling.  In  a  bleaching-ground  (behind  a 
house)  things  must  not  be  carried  except  for  a  distance  of  four  ells.  What 
was  done  by  R.  Huna  bar  Hinana,  R.  Papa,  and  R.  Huna,  the  son  of  R, 
Joshua  in  reference  to  a  garden  on  the  estate  of  the  Exilarch  containing  a 
pavilion, 55-6i 

CHAPTER   III, 

MiSHNA  I,  With  what  kind  of  victuals  may  the  Erub  be  effected  ?  "  The 
man  who  will  explain  to  me  the  dictum  of  Ben  Bagbag  concerning  the  oxen. 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  xi 

I  will  carry  his  clothes  after  him  to  the  bath-house."  The  prescribed  quanti- 
ties of  victuals  for  an  Erub.  R.  Jeremiah  went  out  into  the  villages  and  was 
asked  whether  an  Erub  may  be  made  with  bean-pods.  "  May  the  lord  forgive 
R.  Menashiah  bar  Shegublick.  I  said  this  to  him  in  reference  to  a  Mishna, 
and  he  said  this  in  reference  to  a  Boraitha."  Abayi  said  :  My  mother  told  me 
that  roasted  ears  are  good  for  the  heart,  and  drive  away  care,  etc.  An  Erub 
must  not  be  made  with  consecrated  things.  There  are  sages  who  hold  that 
the  prescribed  quantities  which  are  dependent  upon  the  size  of  man  should 
be  measured  accordingly, 62-70 

MiSHNAS  II.,  III. ,  IV.,  and  V.  Whether  an  Erub  may  be  made  of  things 
consecrated,  or  from  which  heave-offering,  etc.,  has  not  been  separated. 
"When  a  man  sends  his  Erub  by  the  hand  of  a  deaf  and  dumb  person,  an 
idiot,  or  a  minor.  The  difference  of  opinion  between  R.  Na'hman  and  R. 
Shesheth,  whether  the  established  rule  that  a  messenger  will  perform  his 
errand  holds  good  in  rabbinical  things  only,  or  also  in  biblical.  If  he  had 
put  it  into  a  pit,  where  is  the  pit  supposed  to  be  situated  .''  If  the  man  should 
put  the  Erub  on  top  of  a  cane  or  pole,  into  a  cupboard  which  he  locked  and 
then  lost  the  key,  the  Erub  is  nevertheless  valid,  providing  it  was  a  festival. 
On  Sabbath,  however,  it  is  not  valid.  If  the  Erub  rolls  (or  is  moved)  out  of 
the  limit  of  the  Sabbath  distance  ?  If  the  time  when  it  took  place  is  doubt- 
ful ?  If  a  clean  and  unclean  loaf  were  before  a  man,  and  he  was  told  to 
make  an  Erub  with  the  clean  one,  but  did  not  know  which  was  which  ? 
Said  R.  Na'hman  to  Rabha  :  If  thou  wilt  measure  a  whole  kur  of  salt  and 
present  me  with  it,  I  shall  tell  thee  the  answer.  A  man  may  make  his  Erub 
conditional.  If  one  of  the  two  sages  had  been  the  man's  teacher,  he  must 
go  to  meet  his  teacher.  It  frequently  happens  that  a  man  has  a  greater 
fondness  for  his  colleague  than  for  his  teacher.  Why  can  he  not  make  it 
conditional  upon  the  arrival  of  sages  from  opposite  directions  ?  R.  Jehudah 
does  not  admit  of  the  theory  of  premeditated  choice.  Who  is  the  Tana 
who  holds  that  the  sages  also  discountenance  the  theory  of  premeditated 
choice  ? 71-82 

MiSHNAS  VI.,  VII.,  VIII.  If  a  festival  precedes  or  succeeds  a  Sabbath, 
how  must  it  be  done  ?  Have  two  days  of  the  festival  each  a  separate  de- 
gree of  sanctification  ?  The  opinion  of  the  four  old  sages  is  in  accordance 
with  or  contrary  to  Eliezer's  decision.  Is  an  Erub  of  the  first  day  valid  for 
the  east,  and  of  the  second  for  the  west  ?  My  Erub  shall  be  valid  for  the 
first  day  and  on  the  second  I  am  like  my  townsmen.  What  was  said  to  the 
men  who  prepared  baldachins  for  marriages.  How  is  it  with  the  benedic- 
tion of  the  time  on  the  days  of  New  Year  and  the  Day  of  Atonement  ?  How 
the  rabbis  sent  a  man  to  R.  Hisda  to  see  his  custom  about  the  benediction 
of  time.     Must  a  fast  be  completed  on  a  Friday  ?  ...        82-92 

CHAPTER  IV. 

Mishna  I.  What  Rabbon  Gamaliel,  R.  Eliezer  b.  Azariah,  R.  Joshua, 
and  R.  Aqiba  discussed  when  they  were  on  board  the  ship  from  Parendisim. 
Three  persons  will  never  come  to  Gehenna.  Three  classes  of  human  beings 
die  in  the  possession  of  their  power  of  speech.  If  foes  or  an  evil  spirit  have 
carried  a  man  into  another  town  ?     The  Halakha  about  which  R.  Gamaliel 


xii  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

and  R.  Aqiba  disputed  the  whole  day  on  board  the  ship.  The  supposition 
that  the  seven  Halakhas  related  on  the  same  Sabbath  in  the  morning  in 
Sura,  and  in  the  evening  in  Pumbaditha,  were  through  Elijah  the  prophet. 
How  a  partition  with  men  can  be  made.  It  once  happened  that  flasks  of 
wine  were  thrown  out  of  Rabba's  house  on  the  road  in  the  city  of  Mehuzza, 
and  what  was  done  with  them, 93-100 

MiSHNA  II.  All  those  who  go  forth  on  an  errand  of  safety  are  permitted 
to  return  to  their  homes  on  Sabbath.  Besieged  cities  and  those  near  a 
boundary.  The  difference  of  opinions  between  R.  Meir  and  R.  Jehudah 
about  the  entering  a  town  at  dusk  before  Sabbath.  According  to  whom  the 
Halakha  prevails  when  R.  Aqiba,  R.  Jose,  and  R.  Meir,  R.  Jehudah,  Rabbi, 
etc.,  differ.  Notes  about  our  omissions  in  the  Talmud,  about  the  abbrevi- 
ation of  undecided  questions,  and  about  the  rule  laid  down  by  R.  Meshar- 
shia.  It  once  happened  that  rams  were  brought  into  the  city  of  Mabrakhta 
on  a  festival.  Whence  do  we  derive  the  four  ells  ?  If  we  were  to  learn  the 
Talmud  in  this  manner,  we  would  never  be  able  to  learn  anything.  An 
Erub  divided  by  a  man  in  two  parts  or  deposited  in  two  separate  ves- 
sels   lOO-III 

MiSHNAS  III.,  IV.  Should  a  man  overtaken  by  dusk  on  the  road  single 
out  a  tree  or  hedge?  What  is  meant  by  "legally  he  has  said  nothing"? 
If  a  man  made  an  error  and  deposited  his  Erub  in  two  directions.  What 
Rabba  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Jose,  that  it  should  he  accepted,  though  he 
had  not  said  so.  What  is  the  principal  way  to  make  an  Erub,  bread  or  the 
feet  ?  One  who  can  prepare  an  Erub  and  does  not  do  so,  is  like  one  driving 
an  ass  and  leading  a  camel.  R.  Jehudah  bar  Isht'tha  brought  a  basket  of 
fruit  to  R.  Nathan  bar  Oshiya  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath.  If  one  went  beyond 
the  legal  limit  even  a  single  ell.  Opinions  of  R.  Simeon  and  the  sages  about 
one  overtaken  by  dusk, 111-118 

CHAPTER  V. 

MiSHNA  I.  How  can  the  boundaries  of  a  town  be  extended  ?  The  dif- 
ference between  the  hearts  of  the  previous  sages  and  those  of  the  later.  Why 
the  Judeans  retained  what  they  had  learned,  and  the  Galileans,  not.  Whence 
is  it  known  that  the  Lord  forgave  Saul  for  his  sin  ?  When  Joshua  b.  Ha- 
naniah  was  disconcerted  by  a  woman,  a  girl,  and  a  boy.  What  Brurih,  the 
wife  of  R.  Meir,  told  to  R.  Jose,  the  Galilean,  and  also  to  a  young  scholar. 
The  explanation  of  Netzach,  Selah,  and  Voed  mentioned  in  the  Bible.  If 
the  tables  had  not  been  broken  the  first  time  the  law  would  not  have  been 
forgotten  by  Israel.  How  to  retain  one's  knowledge.  How  the  method  of 
teaching  the  law  was  in  the  times  of  Moses.  R.  Preida  would  teach  a  dis- 
ciple a  thing  four  hundred  times,  and  once  twice  four  hundred  times :  his 
reward  for  this  from  heaven.  If  a  town  is  in  the  form  of  an  arch.  If  one 
comes  to  make  a  town  square.  The  equinoxes.  Note  about  the  seven 
planets  of  ancient  astronomy 119-131 

MiSHNAS  II.,  III.,  IV.,  V.  An  allowance  of  seventy  and  two-thirds  ells  of 
space  must  be  made  to  the  town.  The  difference  of  opinions  whether  to 
each  town,  or  between.     What  must  the  distance  between  the  outer  villages 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  xiii 

be  ?  One  must  not  measure  the  legal  distance  except  with  a  line  exactly  fifty 
ells  long.  The  three  kinds  of  cord.  What  is  meant  by  cutting  straight 
through  the  mountain.  The  measurement  must  be  undertaken  only  by  an 
expert.  If  a  town  belonging  to  an  individual  becomes  public  property.  If 
a  town  that  is  public  property  becomes  the  property  of  an  individual.  The 
inhabitants  of  Kakunai  came  before  R.  Joseph  and  asked  him  to  give  them  a 
man  to  effect  an  Erub  for  them  in  their  city,         ....         131-140 

MiSHNA  VI.,  VII.  A  man  who  is  at  the  east  of  his  domicile,  telling  his 
son  to  place  his  Erub  towards  the  west,  or  vice  versa.  What  is  meant  by 
"  toward  the  east  "  ?  (and  illustrations).  If  a  town  stands  on  the  steep  banks 
of  a  lake.  The  discussions  about  the  right  of  the  inhabitants  of  Hamtan 
and  Gadar  to  carry  or  go.  The  inhabitants  of  a  large  town  may  traverse  the 
whole  of  a  small  town  (but  not  vice  versa).  Mar  Jehudah  observed  that  the 
inhabitants  of  Mabrakhta  placed  their  Erub  in  the  synagogue  of  the  city  of 
Agubar, 140-144 

CHAPTER  VI. 

MiSHNA  I.  One  who  dwells  in  the  same  court  with  a  Gentile,  or  with 
one  who  ^oes  not  acknowledge  the  laws  of  Erub.  The  dwelling  of  a  Gentile, 
as  far  as  the  laws  of  Erubin  are  concerned.  May  a  disciple  decide  a 
Halakha  in  the  place  where  his  master  resides  ?  If  a  slaughtering  knife  is 
brought  to  a  young  scholar  for  examination.  Who  sends  his  gifts  to  one 
priest  to  the  exclusion  of  all  others  brings  famine  into  the  world.  If  several 
Israelites  rented  apartments  from  a  Gentile,  and  one  of  them  forgot  to  make 
an  Erub.  One  who  is  tipsy  should  not  pray.  Prayer  of  one  intoxicated 
considered  as  blasphemy.  A  quarter  of  a  lug  of  Italian  wine  inebriates. 
Three  miles'  walk  required  to  destroy  the  effects  of  wine.  The  night  made 
only  for  sleep,  according  to  one.  The  moon  made  only  to  facilitate  study 
at  night,  according  to  another.  The  cases  in  which  R.  Samuel's  father, 
R.  Samuel,  and  R.  Papa  would  not  pray.  Wine  made  only  for  mourners 
and  to  reward  for  good  deeds  the  wicked  in  this  world.  A  house  where 
wine  flows  not  like  water  cannot  be  classed  among  those  that  are  blessed. 
What  R.  Hanina  bar  Joseph,  R.  Hyya  bar  Abba,  and  R.  Assi  discussed  in 
an  inn,  the  proprietor  of  which  was  a  Gentile.  R.  Hisda's  lips  would  trem- 
ble when  he  met  R.  Shesheth,  because  the  latter  was  versed  in  Mishnaioth 
and  Boraithoth,  while  the  whole  body  of  R.  Shesheth  trembled  when  he  met 
R.  Hisda,  because  of  his  sagacity.  The  discussion  about  warm  water  for  a 
new-born  child.  How  is  it  possible  that  two  such  great  men  made  no  Erub. 
Whether  a  Sadducee  is  considered  the  same  as  a  Gentile,  R.  Gamaliel  and 
the  sages  differ.     There  are  two  kinds  of  Sadducees,  .         .         145-162 

MiSHNAS  II.,  III.,  and  IV.  If  one  of  the  householders  of  a  court  forgets, 
and  does  not  join  in  the  Erub.  From  what  time  is  the  right  to  be  conferred  } 
If  five  men  inhabited  one  court,  one  must  resign  his  right,  if  he  had  forgot- 
ten to  join  in  the  Erub.  May  an  heir  resign  his  right  or  not  ?  The  reason 
of  the  difference  between  Beth  Shammai  and  Beth  Hillel  about  the  meaning 
of  resigning  the  right  to  a  place.  The  difference  of  opinion  between  the 
sages  and  R.  Simeon  about  partnership  in  wine  or  oil.  In  courts  an  Erub 
must  be  made  with  bread,  but  it  is  not  allowed  to  do  so  with  wine.     Differ-- 


xiv  SYNOPSIS    OF   SUBJECTS. 

ence  between  Beth  Shammai  and  Beth  Hillel  about  five  companies  occupy- 
ing during  Sabbath  one  hall.  Brothers  or  associates  taking  their  meals  at 
one  table  but  sleeping  in  separate  houses.  One  who  has  a  vestibule,  a  gal- 
lery, or  balcony  in  the  court  of  another,  without  an  Erub.  It  happened  that 
an  inhabitant  of  Naph'ha,  who  had  five  courts  in  Uqba,  did  not  join  in  the 
Erub  with  the  inmates  of  the  courts.  What  about  the  disciples  of  the  col- 
lege,  eating   in   the   inns   of   the   valley   and    passing    the    night    at    the 

college  ? 162-169 

MiSHNAS  v.,  VI.,  and  VII.  If  five  courts  open  into  each  other  and  an 
alley,  if  they  combined  both  the  courts  and  the  alley,  or  only  one  of  these. 
How  Samuel  was  asked  a  question  and  answered  with  silence.  Does  the 
silence  signify  acquiescence  ?  If  two  courts  were  one  within  the  other,  and 
all  the  inmates  or  one  forgot  to  make  an  Erub  ;  if  the  courts  were  the  prop- 
erty of  an  individual.  If  an  Erub  was  placed  in  the  outer  court  and  one  of 
the  inmates  either  of  the  outer  or  inner  forgot  to  join  in  an  Erub,  carrying  is 
prohibited  ;  and  how  if  it  was  placed  in  one  of  the  inner  courts  ?  If  there 
was  a  third  court  between  the  two,  also  belonging  to  an  individual,  is  it  per- 
mitted to  carry  in  any  of  the  three  ?      170-178 

CHAPTER   VII. 

MiSHNAS  I.,  II.,  III.,  and  IV.  If  there  be  an  aperture,  four  spans  square, 
ttc,  between  two  courts.  If  in  the  attic  of  a  house  there  was  a  hole  for  the 
purpose  of  fastening  a  ladder  therein,  should  the  house  be  considered  solid  ? 
If  there  be  a  wall  ten  spans  high  and  four  spans  wide  between  two  courts. 
If  a  man  comes  to  diminish  the  size  of  the  wall  referred  to  in  the  Mishna. 
An  Egyptian  ladder  does  not  diminish  a  wall,  but  a  ladder  of  Tyre  does.  If 
one  erected  two  benches,  one  above  the  other,  at  the  foot  of  a  wall.  What 
is  the  law  if  several  pegs  be  placed  on  the  pillar  in  question  ?  I  have  a  tra- 
dition that  a  ladder  standing  straight  against  a  wall  also  diminishes  its  size. 
What  is  the  law  if  a  man  used  a  tree,  which  grew  right  at  the  wall,  for  a 
ladder  ?  If  two  courts  are  separated  by  a  ditch,  ten  spans  deep  and  four 
wide.  "  Thou  wouldst  prove  a  contradiction  from  a  law  pertaining  to  unclean- 
ness  to  a  Sabbath-law  ?  "  If  there  be  between  two  courts  a  straw-rick,  ten 
spans  high.  If  a  house  which  was  filled  with  straw  stand  between  two 
tourts? 179-189 

MiSHNAS  v.,  VI.,  VII.,  and  VIII.  How  are  alleys  to  be  combined  ?  If 
alleys  or  legal  limits  are  combined.  Whether  a  transfer  of  ownership  is 
necessary  in  case  of  Erubin  of  cooked  articles.  R.  Zera  was  asked  whether 
it  may  be  rented  from  the  man's  wife.  Note  about  a  misprint  that  has 
existed  since  the  Talmud  has  been  published  and  reprinted.  If  the  quan- 
tity of  food  required  for  the  combination  becomes  diminished.  How  much 
is  this  legal  quantity.  Eighteen  dried  figs  are  sufficient  for  two  meals.  The 
Erub  of  courts  or  combination  of  alleys  may  be  effected  with  all  kinds  of 
nutriment  except  water  and  salt.  Is  it  permitted  to  make  an  Erub  with 
bread  made  of  rice  or  millet  ?  A  man  may  give  money  to  the  wine-seller 
or  baker  in  order  to  acquire  the  right  to  join  in  the  Erub.  About  a  Meshikha 
to  a  sale  and  its  explanation.  If  additional  inhabitants  came  into  the  alley, 
the  right  of  possession  must  be  transferred  to  them,  .         .         189-197 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  xv 

CHAPTER  VIII. 

MiSHNAS  I.,  II.,  and  III.  How  are  the  legal  limits  to  be  combined  ?  A 
child  that  is  only  six  years  old  may  go  out  in  the  legal  limits  which  have 
been  combined  by  its  mother.  How  much  is  the  legal  quantity  of  food 
required  to  effect  the  combination  of  limits  ?  Note  about  coins  and  meas- 
ures mentioned  in  the  Tract.  If  the  inhabitants  of  a  court  and  balcony 
should  have  forgotten  to  combine  an  Erub.  If  there  were  three  rums  be- 
tween two  houses,  each  house  may  use  the  adjoining  ruin  by  throwing 
therein,  except  the  middle  one  (with  illustrations),       .        .         .         198-204 

MiSHNAS  IV.,  v.,  VI.,  and  VII.  If  a  man  deposit  his  Erub  for  the  com- 
bination of  courts  in  a  vestibule,  gallery,  or  balcony.  If  a  company  was 
seated  at  table  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath,  the  bread  on  the  table  may  be 
depended  upon  to  serve  as  an  Erub.  If  a  man  leaves  his  house  and  goes  to 
take  his  Sabbath-rest  in  another  town  (without  previously  joining  in  the 
Erub).  If  there  be  a  well  between  two  courts  it  is  not  lawful  to  draw  water. 
If  a  canal  runs  through  a  court  it  is  not  lawful  to  draw  water,  unless  there 
be  a  partition.  If  a  canal  flows  between  two  walls  which  contain  aper- 
tures,              204-209 

MiSHNAS  VIII.  and  IX.  If  there  be  a  balcony  above  the  water.  The 
law  concerning  robbery  is  applicable  also  on  Sabbath.  If  the  court  be  less 
than  four  ells  square  it  is  not  permitted  to  pour  water  therein  on  Sabbath, 
unless  a  sewer  is  made.  All  these  regulations  concerning  the  pouring  of 
water  apply  only  to  summer, 209-213 

CHAPTER   IX. 

MiSHNAS  I.  and  II.  All  the  roofs  of  a  town  are  considered  one  private 
ground,  provided  there  be  not  one  roof  ten  hands  higher  than  the  rest.  If  a 
man  erected  an  attic  on  top  of  his  house  and  provided  it  with  a  small  door 
four  spans  wide,  he  may  carry  things  in  all  the  roofs.  All  roofs  are  con- 
sidered as  one  private  ground  in  their  own  right.  "  It  happened  in  a  time 
of  danger  that  we  brought  up  the  sacred  scrolls  from  a  court  to  a  roof."  If  a 
large  roof  adjoins  a  small  one.  If  there  are  three  woodsheds  opening  into 
each  other,  of  which  the  two  outer  are  enclosed  while  the  middle  one  is  not 
(with  illustrations), 214-223 

MiSHNAS  III.,  IV.,  and  V.  If  a  court  (through  an  incavation  of  its  walls) 
is  laid  open  to  public  ground.  In  a  court  (the  corner  walls  of  which  had 
fallen  in  on  Sabbath  so)  that  it  has  been  laid  open  to  public  ground  on  two 
sides.  If  an  attic  be  built  over  two  houses,  also  if  bridges  are  open  at  both 
ends, 223-226 

CHAPTER   X. 

MiSHNAS  I.,  II.,  and  III.  If  a  man  finds  tephilin  on  the  road  he  should 
watch  them  and  bring  them  into  the  nearest  town  or  village  ;  likewise  his 
child  he  should  hand  to  his  companion,  etc.  If  one  buys  tephilin  of  a  man  who 
is  not  an  expert,  he  must  examine  two  tephilin.  How  came  his  child  on  the 
field  or  on  the  road  ?  This  refers  to  a  child  that  was  born  there.  If  a  man 
reads  in  a  scroll  (of  sacred  scriptures)  on  the  threshold  of  the  house  and  it 


xvi  SYNOPSIS   OF    SUBJECTS. 

slips  out  of  his  hand.     On  a  ledge  outside  a  window  it  is  permitted  to  place 
vessels, 227-235 

MiSHNAS  IV.,  v.,  VI.,  VII.,  VIII.,  and  IX.  A  man  may  stand  in  private 
ground  and  move  things  that  are  in  public  ground.  A  man  must  not, 
standing  in  private  ground,  drink  in  public  ground.  A  man  may  catch 
water  dropping  from  a  spout  on  the  roof.  If  a  well,  standing  in  public 
ground,  have  an  enclosure  ten  spans  high.  Beneath  a  tree,  the  branches  of, 
which  droop  and  cover  the  ground.  The  shutters  of  a  bleaching  ground  or 
thorn  bushes,  235-240 

MiSHNAS  X.  to  XVIII.  A  man  must  not,  standing  in  private  ground, 
unlock  with  a  key  something  in  public  ground.  A  loose  bolt,  with  a  knob 
to  it,  is  prohibited  to  use  on  Sabbath.  A  loose  bolt  that  is  fastened  to  a 
rope  may  be  used  in  the  Temple  only.  In  the  Temple  the  lower  hinge  of  a 
cupboard  door  may  be  refitted  into  its  place.  Priests  who  minister  may 
replace  a  plaster  in  the  Temple.  The  Levites  performing  on  musical  instru- 
ments may  tie  a  string.  The  priests  who  minister  may  remove  a  wart  from 
an  animal  on  Sabbath.  A  ministering  priest  who  hurts  his  finger  may  bind 
it  up  with  reeds  in  the  Temple.  Should  the  carcass  of  a  dead  reptile  be 
found  in  the  Temple  on  the  Sabbath  the  priest  shall  move  it  out  with  his 
belt.  From  which  parts  of  the  Temple  should  it  be  removed  ?  It  is  per- 
mitted for  anyone  to  enter  the  Temple  for  the  purpose  of  building,    240-251 


TRACT   ERUBIN. 


CHAPTER   I. 

REGULATIONS  CONCERNING  THE  WIDTH  AND  HEIGHT  OF  AN  ERUB 
CONSTRUCTED  IN  STREETS  INHABITED  SOLELY  BY  ISRAELITES, 
AND  REGULATIONS  CONCERNING  THE  CONSTRUCTION  OF  AN  ERUB 
BY    A    CARAVAN, 

MISHNA:  If  an  entry*  be  higher  than  twenty  ells,  it  should 
be  lowered.  R.  Jehudah  said:  "  This  is  not  necessary,"  If  it 
be  wider  than  ten  ells,  it  should  be  made  narrower,  but  if  it  have 
the  appearance  of  a  door,  even  though  it  be  wider  than  ten  ells, 
it  need  not  be  made  narrower, 

GEMARA  :  We  have  learned  in  a  Mishna  [Sukkah,  I,  a]  that 
a  booth  which  is  higher  than  twenty  ells  is  unfit  for  use,  and  R. 
Jehudah  said,  that  it  maybe  used.  Why  does  the  Mishna  in  the 
case  of  an  entry  decree,  that  it  should  be  remedied  by  lowering, 
while  in  the  case  of  a  booth  it  declares  it  unfit  for  use  ?  Because 
in  the  case  of  a  booth  a  number  of  other  defects  are  mentioned 
in  connection  with  the  excessive  height  and  each  of  those  would 
require  a  special  explanation  as  to  how  they  were  to  be  remedied, 
whereas  in  the  case  of  an  entry  only  two  things  are  to  be  cor- 
rected, and  the  remedy  for  them  is  taught. 

R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  The  difference  of 
opinion  between  the  sages  and  R,  Jehudah  is  based  upon  the 
door  and  the  porch  of  pillars  in  the  temple.  We  have  learned  in 
a  Mishna,  that  the  door  of  the  Temple  was  twenty  ells  in  height 
and  ten  ells  in  width  and  that  the  porch  was  forty  ells  in  height 
and  twenty  ells  in  width.  The  sages  compare  the  entry  with  the 
door  and  R,  Jehudah  compares  it  with  the  porch  of  the  Temple, 
which  was  also  more  or  less  a  door;  and  why  does  R,  Jehudah 
say,  that  the  porch  is  also  a  door,  because  it  is  written  [Ezekiel 

*  For  explanation  of  this  term,  see  Introduction 
VOL.   III.  1 


2  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

XV.  48],  "  the  porch  of  the  house,"  and  that  is  equivalent  to  the 
door  of  a  house.  Why  do  not  the  sages  hold  the  porch  to  be  a 
door  ?  Because,  were  it  written,  "  the  door  of  the  porch,"  the 
porch  might  also  be  considered  a  door;  but  as  it  is  written,  '*  the 
porch  of  the  house,"  it  means  the  porch  which  opens  towards 
the  house,  but  not  a  door  to  the  house. 

How  can  it  be  that  R.  Jehudah  bases  his  dictum  on  the  porch 
of  the  house  ?  The  porch  was  twenty  ells  in  width,  and  when 
the  Mishna  decrees  that  if  the  entry  be  wider  than  ten  ells  it 
must  be  made  narrower,  he  does  not  dissent  ?  (Why  did  he  not 
say,  that  it  was  not  necessary  to  lessen  its  width  ?)  Said  Abayi : 
In  the  following  Boraitha  he  does  dissent  as  we  have  learned : 
"  If  the  width  of  the  entry  exceed  ten  ells  it  should  be  made 
narrower,  but  R.  Jehudah  says,  it  is  not  necessary."  Why  is 
this  omitted  in  the  Mishna  ?  He  disputes  with  the  sages  con- 
cerning the  height,  hence  it  is  evident  that  he  also  disputes  as  to 
the  width. 

Again:  How  can  it  be  that  R.  Jehudah  bases  his  dictum  upon 
the  porch  of  the  house  ?  Have  we  not  learned  in  a  Boraitha, 
that  if  an  entry  exceed  twenty  ells  in  height,  it  must  be  low- 
ered ?  R.  Jehudah,  however,  says,  that  it  may  be  made  even 
forty  or  fifty  ells  in  height,  and  Bar  Kappara  taught,  that  it  may 
be  even  one  hundred  ells  high.  As  for  Bar  Kappara,  it  is 
assumed  to  be  an  exaggeration ;  but  as  for  R.  Jehudah  it  cannot 
be  considered  merely  an  exaggeration,  because  he  bases  his 
dictum  upon  the  porch  of  the  house,  and  that  was  only  forty  ells 
in  height.  Why  does  he  say  "  or  fifty  "  ?  Whence  his  basis  for 
such  an  assertion?  Said  R.  Hisda:  Rabh  erred  on  account  of 
the  following  Boraitha:  "We  have  learned,  an  entry  which  is 
higher  than  twenty  ells,  thus  exceeding  the  height  of  the  door 
of  the  Temple,  should  be  lowered."  Now  Rabh  assumed,  that 
if  the  sages  base  their  teaching  upon  the  door  of  the  Temple,  R. 
Jehudah  bases  his  dictum  upon  \\\& porch  of  the  Temple,  but  this 
is  not  so!  R.  Jehudah  does  not  consider  the  Temple  at  all,  but 
uses  as  a  basis  the  palaces  of  kings,  the  doors  of  which  attain 
excessive  heights. 

What  is  the  law  concerning  an  entry,  the  cross-beam  of  which 
was  partly  above  twenty  ells  in  height  and  partly  below,  and  also 
concerning  the  covering  of  a  booth,  part  of  which  was  over 
twenty  ells  in  height  and  the  other  part  lower  than  twenty  ? 
Said  Rabba:  "  An  entry  is  made  invalid  by  it  but  a  booth  is  not 
affected."     Why  does  he  say  that  a  booth  is  not  affected  by  it  ? 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  3 

Because  we  assume  that  part  of  the  covering  of  a  booth,  which 
is  above  twenty  ells,  to  be  so  frail  that  it  does  not  matter. 
Cannot  the  same  thing  be  said  concerning  the  cross-beam  of  an 
entry  ?  If  this  were  said  with  reference  to  a  cross-beam,  then  it 
will  seem  as  if  there  is  no  foundation  for  the  cross-beam,  and  it  is 
suspended  in  mid-air.  Is  this  not  the  same  with  a  booth  ?  If  it 
be  said,  that  that  part  of  the  covering  of  the  booth  is  so  frail 
that  it  amounts  to  nothing,  it  cannot  serve  as  protection  against 
the  sun  and  there  will  be  more  sunshine  than  shade,  and  this 
would  make  the  booth  invalid  ?  But,  as  such  is  not  the  case  and 
the  frailty  of  the  covering  is  as  a  matter  of  fact  qnly  imaginary, 
it  does  cause  more  shade  than  sunshine,  and  the  booth  is  not 
made  invalid,  why  should  it  not  also  be  the  same  with  the 
cross-beam,  the  frailty  of  which  is  also  only  imaginary  while  in 
reality  it  is  as  firm  as  if  fastened  with  nails  ?  Said  Rabha  of 
Parzekaia:  "  If  such  a  defect  occur  in  a  booth,  which  is  intended 
for  the  personal  use  (of  a  man),  it  will  be  remedied  through 
the  thoughtfulness  of  the  man  (who  is  bound  to  keep  the 
commandment  properly),  but  a  cross-beam  of  an  entry  which 
is  intended  for  public  use  will  be  neglected,  because  one  man 
will  rely  upon  another  to  remedy  the  defect,  as  the  proverb  goes, 
that  a  pot  used  in  common  is  never  warm  nor  cold  "  (one  relies 
upon  another  to  keep  it  in  its  proper  condition).  Rabhina  said : 
The  booth  being  a  fulfilment  of  a  biblical  commandment  needs 
no  further  safeguard,  for  it  will  be  kept  under  any  circumstances; 
but  the  entry  being  a  purely  rabbinical  institution  must  not  leave 
any  loopholes,  by  which  the  entire  law  may  eventually  be  cir- 
cumvened. 

What  is  the  law,  finally  ?  Rabba  bar  R.  Ula  said,  "  Both  are 
invalid,"  and  Rabha  said,  "Both  are  valid,"  why  ?  Because  the 
twenty  ells  refer  to  the  space  between  the  ground  and  the  cross- 
beam or  covering,  respectively,  and  even  if  part  of  either  be 
above  twenty  ells,  the  space  is  not  changed  in  volume.  Said  R. 
Papa  to  Rabha :  I  know  of  a  Boraitha  confirming  this  statement : 
"  An  entry  which  is  more  than  twenty  ells  high  and  thus  is  higher 
than  the  door  of  the  Temple  should  be  lowered,  and  the  space 
between  the  ground  and  the  ceiling  in  the  Temple  itself  was 
twenty  ells  high."  R.  Shimi  bar  R.  Ashi  objected  to  this: 
"  We  have  learned  further  on,  how  should  we  remedy  the  defect 
in  the  entiy  ?  The  cross-beam  should  be  laid  below  the  limit  of 
the  twenty  ells!  "  Do  not  learn  in  the  Boraitha,  "  below  "  but 
"  above  "  the  Hmit  of  the  twenty  ells.     The  Boraitha,  however; 


4  THE    BABYLOiNIAN    TALMUD. 

distinctly  teaches  "  below  "  ?  This  "  below  "  refers  to  a  booth 
which  was  less  than  ten  spans  high  and  which  must  be  made 
higher  so  that  the  space  between  the  ground  and  the  ceiling 
should  be  no  less  than  ten  spans,  in  the  same  manner  as  it  must 
not  be  higher  than  twenty  ells. 

Abayi  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Na'hman:  "  The  ell  used  at  a 
booth  and  at  an  entry  measures  five  spans,  but  the  ell  used  at 
Kilaim  is  six  spans."  For  what  legal  purpose  does  R.  Na'hman 
relate  this  ?  This  is  taught  for  the  purpose  of  determining  the 
height  of  an  entry  and  for  measuring  a  breach  in  the  wall  of  an 
entry.  (If  the  breach  be  over  ten  ells  wide,  the  entry  is  invalid, 
and  the  ell  used  for  measurement  is  the  one  of  five  spans  only.) 
Why  is  the  width  of  a  breach  and  the  height  of  the  entry  only 
mentioned  ?  There  is  also  width  to  be  considered  in  an  entry, 
for  did  not  R.  Na'hman  state,  that  an  entry  must  not  be  less 
than  four  ells  wide  ?  What  ells  are  these  ?  If  they  are  four  ells 
of  the  lesser  standard,  R.  Na'hman  makes  the  ordinance  more 
lenient  ?  The  ells  in  an  entry,  as  a  rule,  are  those  of  the  lesser 
standard,  but  as  for  the  width,  those  of  the  greater  standard  are 
used.  Further,  R.  Na'hman  said,  that  the  ell  used  at  a  booth 
also  measures  five  spans.  For  what  purpose  did  he  state  this  ? 
For  the  measurement  of  the  height  of  the  booth  and  the  crooked 
walls  *  of  the  booth.  There  is  also  the  width  of  the  booth  to 
be  considered,  however,  and  that  should  be  four  ells  ?  Will  not 
the  ordinance  regarding  the  width  be  made  more  lenient  thereby 
of  twenty  spans  only  ?  The  ells  of  a  booth  generally  are  of  five 
spans,  but  as  for  width  the  ells  measuring  six  spans  are  used. 
What  does  R.  Na'hman  intend  to  specify,  by  stating  that  the 
ells  used  at  Kilaim  measure  six  spans  ?  He  refers  to  seeds 
planted  in  the  superficies  of  a  vineyard  and  to  a  barren  spot  in 
a  vineyard  (as  explained  in  Tract  Kilaim).  But  there  is  a  vine- 
yard in  which  the  vines  are  planted  at  less  intervals  than  four 
ells  and  the  opinions  of  the  sages  differ  as  to  whether  such  a  vine- 
yard is  called  a  vineyard  in  a  legal  sense  (and  if  the  ells  be 
measured  according  to  the  statement  of  Na'hman  it  is  made 
more  lenient  ?  Because  if  the  four  ells  be  of  the  lesser  standard 
the  commandment  of  Kilaim  is  not  applied.)  The  statement  of 
R.  Na'hman  is  made  for  a  rule  but  did  not  include  the  above 
vineyard.  The  ells  of  a  vineyard  are  generally  used  of  six  spans, 
but  not  for  the  width.       But   Rabha  said  in  the  name  of    R. 

*  The  crooked  walls  will  be  explained  in  Tract  Sukkah. 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  5 

Na'hman  :  All  ells  measure  six  spans,  but  in  Kilaim  are  measured 
with  long  spans  and  in  entry  and  booth  with  short  spans  to 
make  it  more  rigorously. 

R.  Hyya  bar  Ashi  in  the  name  of  Rabh  said :  The  several 
prescribed  quantities  (as  mentioned  in  Tract  Sabbath),  the 
Chatzitzah  (intervention  of  articles  at  bathing),  and  the  ordinance 
concerning  the  walls  of  an  entry  and  of  a  booth  are  ordinances 
given  by  Moses  at  the  Mount  Sinai.  How  can  it  be  said,  that 
these  are  Sinaic  laws,  they  are  biblical  laws  ?  For  it  is  written 
[Deutr.  viii.  8]:  "A  land  of  wheat  and  barley,  and  of  the  vine, 
and  the  fig-tree  and  the  pomegranate;  a  land  of  the  oil-olive  and 
of  honey."  And  R.  Hanan  said,  that  the  whole  verse  refers  to 
prescribed  quantities:  "  By  wheat  is  meant,  what  we  have 
learned  elsewhere  in  a  Mishna  [Negaim  xiii.  9] :  If  a  man  clad 
in  garments  and  shoes  entered  a  house  where  leprosy  was  preva- 
lent, he  immediately  becomes  unclean,  but  his  garments,  shoes, 
etc.,  do  not  become  unclean,  until  he  remains  there  a  length  of 
time  sufficient  for  the  consumption  of  bread  of  the  quantity  of 
two  eggs,  wheaten  bread  but  not  barley-bread,  and  when  eaten  in 
a  reclining  position  with  some  other  dish.  By  barley  is  meant, 
what  we  have  learned  elsewhere  [Ohaloth  ii.  3] :  If  a  bone  of  a 
corpse  is  the  size  of  a  (grain  of)  barley,  it  makes  a  body  unclean, 
when  touched  or  carried,  but  it  does  not  make  unclean  the  con- 
tents of  a  tent,  if  found  therein.  By  vine  is  meant:  If  a  Naza- 
rite  drink  a  quarter  of  a  lug  of  wine  he  ceases  to  be  a  Nazarite 
and  must  bring  a  sin-offering.  By  fig-tree  is  meant,  that  one  is 
guilty  of  carrying  on  the  Sabbath,  if  he  carries  anything  of  the 
size  or  quantity  of  a  dried  fig.  By  pomegranate  is  meant,  what 
we  have  learned  elsewhere  [Khelim  xvii.  i]  :  Any  vessel  belong- 
ing to  a  household,  if  it  have  a  hole  as  large  as  a  pomegranate,  is 
not  subject  to  defilement  any  more.  By  a  land  of  the  oil-olive 
is  meant  a  land  where  all  prescribed  quantities  are  of  the  size  of 
an  olive.  [All  prescribed  quantities  ?  What  about  those  just 
mentioned  ?  Say,  a  land  where  the  majority  of  the  prescribed 
quantities  are  of  the  size  of  an  olive.]  By  honey  is  meant,  that 
if  a  man  ate  anything  the  size  of  a  fresh  date  on  the  Day  of 
Atonement,  he  is  guilty." 

How  can  the  passage  be  understood  in  this  manner  ?  No 
prescribed  quantities  are  mentioned  in  the  passage  ?  We  must 
say,  therefore,  that  those  laws  are  Sinaic,  but  the  passage  is 
merely  a  mnemotechnical  basis  for  them.  And  Chatzitzah,  is 
that  not  also  biblical   law  ?      It  (as)  is  written  [Leviticus   xv. 


6  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

i6]:  "  Then  shall  he  bathe  all  his  flesh  in  water."  By  all  his 
flesh  is  meant,  that  nothing  should  intervene  between  his  flesh 
and  the  water  ?  The  Sinaic  law  was  necessary  in  order  to 
stipulate,  that  there  should  even  be  no  intervention  between 
the  hair  and  the  water  (not  only  between  the  flesh  and  the  water). 
As  was  said  by  Rabba  bar  R.  Huna:  "  If  there  was  a  knot  in  a 
single  hair,  there  was  certainly  an  intervention ;  but  if  three  hairs 
were  tied  in  a  knot,  there  was  certainly  no  intervention ;  but  if 
two  were  tied  together,  the  matter  is  doubtful  to  me."  But 
even  the  ordinance  concerning  the  hair  is  also  biblical  ?  For  we 
have  learned  in  a  Boraitha,  that  by  "  all  his  flesh  "  is  meant  all 
attached  to  the  flesh,  and  that  includes  the  hair.  The  Sinaic 
law  was  necessary  in  order  to  stipulate  the  ordinances  con- 
cerning the  greater  and  lesser  part  of  the  hair,  one  who  is  par- 
ticular with  his  hair  and  one  who  is  not,  as  was  said  by  the 
dictum  of  R.  Itz'hak:  "  According  to  biblical  law  Chatzitzah  is 
constituted  only  if  the  greater  part  of  his  hair  was  encrusted 
with  loam  or  blood,  etc.,  and  the  man  is  particular  about  his  hair, 
but  if  he  is  not,  it  does  not  constitute  intervention."  The 
rabbinical  laws,  however,  ordained  as  a  precautionary  measure, 
that  if  the  larger  part  of  his  hair  be  encrusted  even  though  he 
be  not  particular,  it  would  constitute  Chatzitzah,  lest  one  who  is 
particular  would  not  consider  it  so,  and  they  also  ordained,  that 
if  the  smaller  part  of  his  hair  was  encrusted  and  he  is  particular 
about  his  hair,  it  would  constitute  Chatzitzah,  as  a  precautionary 
measure,  for  the  sake  of  the  one  who  has  the  larger  part  of  his 
hair  encrusted  and  is  also  particular  about  his  hair. 

The  ordinances  concerning  the  walls  of  a  booth  and  an  entry 
are  also  biblical  ?  For  the  master  said:  "It  is  written,  that  the 
ark  was  nine  spans  high  and  the  cover  was  one  span  thick,  so  the 
ark  and  cover  combined  were  ten  spans  high,  and  this  serves  as 
a  prescribed  height  for  all  walls."  The  Sinaic  laws  are  necessary 
for  the  stipulation  of  the  ordinances  concerning  Gud,*  Lavud,f 
and  crooked  walls. 

If  the  entry  was  higher  than  twenty  ells  and  is  to  be  lowered, 


*  In  many  places  of  the  Talmud  the  expression  Gud  is  used  to  signify,  that  where 
a  wall  or  a  curtain  is  supposed  to  reach  the  ground  or  to  reach  the  ceiling,  and  comes 
within  three  spans  of  doing  so  in  either  case,  they  are  considered  as  if  they  were  on  a 
level  with  the  ground  or  with  the  ceiling,  the  expression  for  the  former  being  Gud 
Achith  and  for  the  latter  Gud  Assik  ;  literally,  "  consider  it  bound  down"  and  "  con- 
sider it  bound  up,"  respectively. 

f  Lavud,  attached.     See  note  §,  page  I2,  Vol.  I. 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  7 

how  much  lower  should  it  be  made  ?  How  much  lower  ?  As 
much  as  is  necessary.  The  question  here  is,  how  much  of  the 
space  below  the  cross-beam  must  be  diminished  in  order  to  make 
the  space  only  twenty  ells  high.  R.  Joseph  said:  "One  span 
underneath  the  cross-beam  is  sufficient";  but  Abayi  said,  four 
spans,  and  they  differ  merely  as  to  the  precautionary  measure 
involved;  the  latter  claiming,  that  one  span  may  be  impaired 
through  stepping  upon  it,  while  the  former  holds  that  there  is  no 
danger  of  such  a  thing  happening. 

How  is  it  if  the  entry  was  less  than  ten  spans  high  and  suffi- 
cient ground  had  to  be  excavated  in  order  to  make  it  the  pre- 
scribed height  ?  How  much  ground  should  be  excavated  ?  How 
much  ?  As  much  as  is  necessary  ?  The  question,  therefore,  is 
not  as  to  how  much  must  be  excavated  in  height,  but  in  the 
width  of  the  entry.  R.  Joseph  said:  "  For  the  width  of  four 
spans,"  and  Abayi  said,  "  For  four  ells. "  (The  reason  R.  Joseph 
says  four  spans  in  this  case,  while  only  requiring  one  span  in  the 
above  case,  is  because  in  the  first  instance  a  wall  for  the  entry 
already  existed,  and  merely  the  space  had  to  be  diminished,  but 
in  this  instance,  if  the  wall  is  less  than  ten  spans  high,  it  cannot 
be  considered  a  wall  and  by  excavating  the  ground  the  wall  will 
be  made;  hence  four  spans  at  least  must  be  excavated  in  order 
to  constitute  such  a  wall,  the  wall  of  an  entry.  Abayi,  however, 
holds  that  in  this  case  four  spans  would  be  insufficient,  and  at 
least  four  ells  are  necessary,  because  an  entry  is  not  considered 
such,  unless  it  is  four  ells  wide.) 

Said  Abayi :  "  Whence  do  I  know  that  four  ells  are  required  ? 
From  the  statement  of  Rami  bar  Hama  in  the  name  of  R.  Huna, 
that  if  a  beam  protrude  from  one  of  the  walls  of  the  entry  for  a 
distance  of  less  than  four  ells,  it  may  serve  as  the  side-beam  of 
such  entry  and  be  valid,  although  it  was  not  intended  to  serve 
for  that  purpose.  If  such  a  beam  protrude  for  a  distance  of  four 
ells  or  more,  it  is  considered  as  part  of  the  wall  and  cannot  serve 
as  a  side-beam,  but  a  new  side-beam  must  be  made  in  order  to 
make  the  entry  valid."  (If  a  beam  protrude  from  a  wall  of  an 
entry  and  was  even  not  intended  to  serve  as  a  side-beam,  it  may 
be  ever  so  small,  it  is  considered  as  a  side-beam  for  the  entry  and 
is  valid.  If  it  protrude,  however,  for  a  distance  of  four  ells  or 
more,  and  was  not  originally  intended  for  a  side-beam,  it  cannot 
serve  the  purpose,  because  the  entire  width  of  the  entry  is  only 
supposed  to  be  four  ells  and  for  that  reason  the  protruding  beam 
is  considered  part  of  the  wall.     Hence  in  order  to  make  the  entry 


8  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

valid,  another  side-beam  must  be  constructed.  From  this  it  may- 
be seen,  that  Abayi  bases  his  opinion  concerning  the  width  of 
the  entry  upon  the  dictum  of  Rami  bar  Hama,  that  an  entry 
must  be  four  ells  wide.)  R.  Joseph,  however,  declares,  that  the 
decree  of  Rami  bar  Hama  does  not  conflict  with  his  own  deci- 
sion ;  for  it  is  true  that  a  beam,  if  it  be  four  ells  wide  is  not  con- 
sidered a  side-beam,  because  it  has  not  the  appearance  of  a  side- 
beam  ;  still  the  reason  for  this  is  not  because  the  width  of  the 
entry  itself  should  be  four  ells,  but  because  the  side-beam  is  too 
large,  and,  as  for  the  entry  itself,  it  is  sufficient,  if  it  be  only 
four  spans  wide. 

Again,  Rami  bar  Hama  said,  that  if  the  beam  be  four  ells 
wide,  another  side-beam  is  necessary.  Where  should  the  latter 
be  put  ?  Should  he  add  the  side-beam  to  the  original  beam,  the 
size  will  be  increased  (and  it  will  not  look  anything  like  a  side- 
beam)  ?  Said  R.  Papa:  "  It  can  be  put  on  the  other  side  of  the 
entry."  R.  Huna  bar  R.  Jehoshua,  however,  said,  that  the  side- 
beam  may  be  added  to  the  original  beam,  but  it  should  be  made 
either  higher  or  lower  than  the  original  beam  (in  order  that  it 
may  appear  as  if  it  were  added).  The  same  R.  Huna  said  also: 
"  All  this  is  said  in  a  case  of  where  the  entry  was  eight  ells  in 
width  (so  that  the  protruding  beam  and  the  entry  are  of  equal 
width),  but  if  the  entry  was  only  seven  ells  wide  and  thus  the  width 
of  the  entry  is  less  than  the  protruding  beam,  even  according  to 
Rami  bar  Hama,  the  entry  is  valid  without  the  addition  of  another 
beam,  because  the  entry  being  narrower  than  the  beam  is  con- 
sidered the  same  as  a  door. ' '  This  ordinance  is  made  lenient  from 
an  inference  of  a  rigorous  ordinance,*  viz.  :  the  ordinance  con- 
cerning a  court:  If  in  a  court  one  of  the  walls  is  entirely 
destroyed,  nothing  may  be  carried  therein  on  the  Sabbath,  and 
neither  a  cross-beam  nor  a  side-beam  placed  at  the  remaining 
walls  alters  its  character.  However,  if  the  wall  destroyed  was 
only  partially  ruined  and  the  remaining  portion  is  larger  than  the 
breach,  things  may  be  carried  therein.  Hence  in  the  case  of  an 
entry  where  a  side  or  cross  beam  suffices  for  the  entire  wall,  if 
the  wall  is  wider  than  the  space  of  the  entry  proper,  in  so  much 

*  This  19  a  case  of  where  the  peculiar  Talmudical  expression  of  Kal  Vochomer 
appears  in  the  text.  The  literal  translation  is  "  light  and  heavy,"  i.e.,  from  the 
lighter  to  the  heavier  or  from  minor  to  major.  In  the  "  Introduction  to  the  Tal- 
mud "  by  Prof.  Dr.  Mielziner  an  entire  chapter  is  devoted  to  the  explanation  of  this 
term  (pp.  130-141).  However,  no  general  term  can  be  found  to  express  its  meaning, 
and  the  expression  must  be  varied  according  to  the  demand  of  the  text. 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  9 

greater  a  degree  is  the  entry  valid  for  all  purposes.  R.  Ashi, 
however,  says,  that  even  if  the  entry  was  eight  ells  wide,  no 
additional  side-beam  is  necessary,  no  matter  in  which  way  the 
case  is  assumed  :  If  it  be  assumed  that  the  closed  part  of  the 
entry  is  wider  than  the  entr>^  itself  (through  some  inaccuracy  in 
construction),  then  the  entry  is  valid  because  of  that  fact,  and  if 
it  be  assumed  that  the  space  of  the  entry  is  wider,  then  the 
closed  part  which  is  constituted  by  the  beam  may  be  regarded  as 
a  legal  side-beam  and  then  the  entry  is  certainly  valid ;  but  it 
might  be  assumed,  that  both  the  closed  part  and  the  space  were 
exactly  equal;  in  that  event  it  would  constitute  a  doubtful  case 
based  on  a  rabbinical  law,  and  such  a  case  is  always  decided  with 
leniency. 

Said  R.  Hanin  bar  Rabha  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  "  If  the 
wall  of  an  entry  was  broken  for  a  distance  of  less  than  ten  ells 
at  the  side  the  entry  is  valid ;  but  if  the  front  of  the  wall  was 
broken  for  four  ells  (assuming  that  the  entry  was  originally 
twenty  ells  wide  and  in  order  to  make  it  valid,  ten  ells  had  been 
closed  up,  and  of  the  ten  ells  of  the  new  wall,  four  had  been 
broken)  the  entry  is  not  valid."  Why  is  the  entry  valid  if  the 
wall  was  broken  for  a  distance  of  ten  ells  on  the  side,  because 
the  breach  can  be  regarded  as  a  door  ?  Why  should  not  the 
same  case  apply  to  the  breach  in  the  front  ?  Say  that  can  also  be 
regarded  as  a  door  ?  Said  R.  Huna  bar  R.  Jehoshua:  "  In  this 
case  the  breach  is  supposed  to  be  in  the  corner,  and  a  door  is  not 
generally  made  in  the  corner."  R.  Huna,  however,  said,  that 
the  same  distance  applies  to  both  the  side  and  the  front  of  wall. 
In  either  case  if  the  breach  exceeds  four  ells,  the  entry  is  not 
valid.  And  thus  said  R.  Huna  to  R.  Hanan  bar  Rabha:  "  Do 
not  dispute  with  me,  for  it  happened  that  Rabh  came  to  the  city 
of  Damharia  and  he  acted  there  in  accordance  with  my  decree." 
R.  Hanan  bar  Rabha  answered:  **  This  is  not  sufficient  evidence 
for  me,  because  in  that  case  Rabh  acted  in  a  manner  that  pre- 
cluded the  possibility  of  doing  wrong  {i.e.,  the  people  there 
were  ignorant  and  had  he  given  them  a  liberal  interpretation  of 
the  ordinance,  they  would  have  taken  advantage  of  it  and  disre- 
garded the  law  in  the  future)." 

Said  R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak:  "  It  seems  to  me  that  R. 
Huna  was  correct  in  his  opinion  from  the  following:  It  was 
taught :  An  entry  made  in  the  form  of  a  right  angle  should, 
according  to  Rabh,  be  considered  as  an  ordinary  entry  which  is 
open  on  both  sides  and  requires  an  apparent  door  on  one  side  and 


THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 


a  cross  or  side  beam  on  the  other  side,  but  according  to  Samuel 
it  must  be  considered  as  a  closed  entry  (and  at  both  sides  needs 
only  a  side-beam).  Now,  let  us  see !  Shall  we  assume,  that 
even  if  the  entry  was  wider  than  ten  ells,  Samuel  still  regards  it 
as  a  closed  entry,  and  only  requires  a  side-beam  at  each  side ; 
(and  this  being  impossible,  therefore  we  must  rather  assume, 
that  the  entry  was  only  ten  ells  wide,  and  still  Rabh  regards  it 
as  an  open  entry  and  declares,  that  it  requires  an  apparent  door; 
hence  we  see  that  the  breach  on  the  side  of  the  wall  must  also 
not  exceed  four  ells  in  order  that  it  may  be  regarded  as  a  door. 
(According  to  Rabh  then,  not  even  ten  ells  in  front  can  be 
regarded  as  a  door  until  an  apparent  door  is  added.  How  can  it 
be  said  that  if  a  breach  measure  ten  ells  at  the  side  it  is  regarded 
as  a  door  ?)  What  rejoinder  will  R.  Hanan  bar  Rabha  make  ? 
R.  Hanan  will  claim,  that  an  entry  made  in  the  form  of  a  right 
angle  is  used  so  much,  that  it  appears  like  public  ground  (hence 
an  apparent  door  must  be  made,  but  as  for  a  court,  which  is  not 
used  as  a  thoroughfare,  even  ten  ells  may  appear  like  a  door). 

The  Rabbis  taught:  How  are  entries  facing  public  ground 
combined  by  an  Erub  ?  On  one  side  an  apparent  door  should  be 
made  and  on  the  other  a  cross  and  side  beam  should  be  put  up. 
Said  Hananiah :  The  school  of  Shamai  said,  that  doors  should  be 
made  at  both  entries  where  they  face  the  street,  and  when  going 
out  or  entering,  the  man  should  close  the  door.  The  school  of 
Hillel,  however,  said,  that  at  one  side  a  side  and  a  cross  beam 
should  be  made  and  at  the  other  a  door  should  be  made.  Com- 
menting upon  this,  Rabh  said,  that  the  Halakha  prevails  accord- 
ing to  the  first  Tana,  and  Samuel  said,  that  it  prevails  according 
to  Hananiah. 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question:  "  Is  a  man,  accord- 
ing to  the  opinion  of  Hananiah,  quoting  the  school  of  Hillel, 
obliged  to  close  the  door  or  not  ?"     Come  and  hear.     R.  Jehudah 

said   in   the   name  of   Samuel,   that  he  is   not 

obliged  to  close  the  door.  R.  Mathna  added : 
I  was  placed  in  that  position  at  one  time  and 
Samuel  said  to  me,  that  it  must  not  be  closed. 
There  was  an  entry  (as  shown  in  the  illus- 
tration) at  the  city  of  Neherdai,  to  which  the 
rigorous  ordinances  of  both  Samuel  and  Rabh 
were  applied  and  doors  were  ordered  to  be  made. 
The  rigorous  ordinance  of  Rabh  is  the  one  pertaining  to  an 
entry  which  was  made  in  the  form  of  a  right  angle,  and  was 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  ir 

declared  by  him  to  be  regarded  as  an  open  entry  and  in  this  case 
there  were  two  openings  towards  the  street.  [Did  not  Rabh  say 
above  that  the  Halakha  prevails  as  the  first  Tana  ?  In  this  case 
the  rigorous  ordinance  of  Samuel  was  applied,  who  said,  that 
the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  Hananiah.  But  did  not  Samuel 
say,  that  an  entry  made  in  the  form  of  a  right  angle  is  to  be  con- 
sidered  as  a  closed  entry,  and  requires  only  side-beams?  In  this 
instance  again  the  rigorous  ordinance  of  Rabh  was  applied  and 
it  was  regarded  as  an  open  entry,  and  at  an  open  entry,  accord- 
ing to  Hananiah,  quoting  the  school  of  Hillel,  doors  are  also 
required.] 

May,  then,  the  rigorous  ordinances  of  two  Tanaim  be  applied 
to  one  case  ?  Have  we  not  learned  in  a  Boraitha,  that  at  all 
times  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  the  school  of  Hillel,  but 
he  who  wishes  to  act  in  accordance  with  the  school  of  Shamai, 
may  follow  that  school  exclusively  both  in  the  lenient  and  the 
rigorous  ordinances,  and  he  who  wishes  to  act  in  accordance  with 
the  school  of  Hillel  may  follow  that  school  exclusively  in  both 
lenient  and  rigorous  ordinances.  He  who  only  follows  the  more 
lenient  ordinances  of  both  schools  is  a  sinner,  and  he  who  fol- 
lows only  the  more  rigorous  ordinances  of  both  schools  is  referred 
to  by  the  passage  [Ecclesiastes  ii.  14]  as  "  the  fool  walketh  in 
darkness." 

Said  R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak:  The  entry  made  in  Neherdai 
was  made  in  accordance  with  the  decision  of  Rabh  solely,  but 
did  not  Rabh  say,  that  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  the  first 
Tana  ?  R.  Huna  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh,  that  the  Halakha  in 
theory  remains  according  to  the  first  Tana,  but  it  should  not  be 
carried  out  in  practice.  But  according  to  R.  Ada  bar  Ahabha, 
who  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh,  that  the  Halakha  prevails  accord- 
ing to  the  first  Tana  and  should  be  carried  out  accordingly,  was 
not  the  entry  in  Neherdai  made  according  to  the  more  rigorous 
decisions  of  both  schools  of  Shamai  and  Hillel  ?  Said  R. 
Shezbi :  It  is  not  allowed  to  act  in  accordance  with  too  rigorous 
ordinances  of  two  schools  only  when  they  conflict  with  one 
another  {e.g.,  the  ordinances  concerning  the  back  and  the  head 
as  will  be  explained  in  Chulin).  Wherever  they  do  not  conflict, 
however,  they  may  be  applied  in  one  and  the  same  case. 

R.  Joseph  was  sitting  in  the  presence  of  R.  Huna,  and  said: 
"  R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh,  that  the  first  Tana  and 
R.  Hananiah  differed  only  when  the  entry  faced  a  market  on 
both  sides ;  but  if  on  one  side  there  was  public  ground  and  on 


12  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

the  other  was  a  valley  which  was  considered  unclaimed  ground, 
all  agree  that  an  apparent  door  should  be  made  on  one  side  and 
a  cross  or  side  beam  on  the  other  side."  R.  Joseph  then  con- 
tinued in  the  name  of  R.  Jehudah  alone  and  stated,  that  if  the 
entry  opened  on  one  side  into  a  vacant  yard  which  in  turn  opened 
into  public  ground,  nothing  need  be  made  at  either  end  of  the 
entry. 

Said  Abayi  to  R.  Joseph :  What  R.  Jehudah  is  supposed  to 
have  said  himself,  was  in  reality  a  decree  of  Samuel,  because 
were  it  a  decree  of  Rabh,  he  would  contradict  himself  in  either 
of  two  instances;  for  R.  Jeremiah  bar  Abba  said  in  the  name  of 
Rabh:  "  If  the  wall  of  an  entry  opening  into  a  courtyard  be 
entirely  destroyed,  and  the  wall  between  the  courtyard  and  the 
street  was  broken  only  for  a  distance  of  less  than  ten  ells,  the 
courtyard  is  not  invalidated  but  the  entry  is."  Why!  Say 
rather  that  the  entry  in  this  case  is  equal  to  one  that  faces  a 
vacant  yard,  and,  according  to  R.  Jehudah,  needs  nothing  at 
either  end.  (Where  the  contradiction  in  either  of  the  two 
instances  occurs  is  as  follows:  If  R.  Jehudah  means  to  state, 
that  the  entry  needs  nothing  at  either  end  because  it  is  an  open 
entry,  that  would  contradict  Rabh  in  one  instance,  as  R.  Jeremiah 
bar  Abba  relates,  that  the  entry  is  invalidated  because  it  is  made 
an  open  entry.  If  we  assume,  however,  that  R.  Jehudah  holds 
an  entry,  opening  into  a  vacant  place,  to  be  valid  even  if  nothing 
is  made  at  either  end,  because  the  place  was  vacant  and  there 
were  no  inhabitants  who  could  invalidate  the  entry  by  refusing 
to  combine  in  an  Erub,  but,  if  there  were  inhabitants  in  that 
place,  the  entry  would  have  been  invalid  unless  provided  with 
the  necessary  appliances.  Here,  however,  Rabh,  according  to 
R.  Jeremiah  bar  Abba,  invalidates  the  entry  because  it  is  an 
open  entry  and  not  because  of  the  inhabitants,  and  hence  there 
would  be  contradiction  in  the  other  instance.) 

Said  R.  Joseph  to  Abayi:  "  I  know  not  whose  decree  R. 
Jehudah  cited,  but  it  happened  in  the  village  of  a  shepherd,  that 
there  was  an  entry  which  opened  into  a  vacant  yard  and  R. 
Jehudah  was  asked  whether  it  was  necessary  to  provide  the 
entry  with  an  apparent  door  or  beams,  and  R.  Jehudah  answered 
that  it  was  not.  If  this  is  contradictory  to  the  opinion  of  Rabh, 
then  let  it  be  attributed  not  to  him  but  to  Samuel,  and  there 
will  be  no  contradiction."  Now  what  R.  Shesheth  said  to  R. 
Samuel  bar  Abba  or,  according  to  another  version,  to  R.  Joseph 
bar  Abba,  namely:  I   will  explain  to  you,  that  the  decree  of 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  13 

Rabh  is  not  permanent.  There  are  times  when  Rabh  himself 
holds  that  the  entry  is  valid,  and  this  occurs,  if  the  inhabitants 
of  the  courtyard  and  the  entry  made  a  joint  Erub  (common 
cause) ;  but  when  such  was  not  the  case,  he  holds  the  entry  to  be 
invalidated,  which  proves  to  us,  that  the  decree  of  R.  Jehudah 
concerning  the  entry  in  the  village  of  the  shepherd  may  have 
also  been  in  conformity  with  the  opinion  of  Rabh,  because  the 
vacant  yard  had  no  inhabitants  with  whom  the  inhabitants  of  the 
entry  could  have  made  an  Erub ;  for  the  decree  of  R.  Jeremiah 
bar  Abba  in  the  name  of  Rabh  does  not  invalidate  the  entry 
because  it  is  made  an  open  entry,  but  because  there  were  no 
inhabitants  in  the  vacant  place  with  whom  the  inhabitants  of  the 
entry  could  combine  in  an  Erub. 

R.  Joseph  said:  "  When  R.  Jehudah  declared,  that  an  entry 
which  opens  into  a  vacant  yard  is  valid  even  when  nothing  had 
been  made  at  either  end,  he  intended  to  state,  that  such  was  the 
case  if  the  entry  opened  into  the  centre  of  the  vacant  yard,  but 
if  it  opened  into  one  side  of  the  yard  it  is  not  valid."  Said 
Rabba:  "  Even  if  the  entry  opened  into  the  centre  of  the  vacant 
yard,  it  is  only  then  valid,  provided  it  is  not  exactly  opposite  the 
opening  of  the  yard  into  the  street ;  if  it  is  directly  opposite, 
however,  the  entrj^  is  invalid.  Said  R.  Mesharshia:  "  Even  if 
the  entry  is  not  opposite  the  opening  of  the  vacant  place  into  the 
street,  it  is  valid  only  if  the  vacant  place  was  public  property, 
but,  if  belonging  to  an  individual  (who  might  build  on  it  and 
rent  it  to  others),  it  will  become  equal  to  an  entry  which  faces 
the  sides  of  a  vacant  place  and  is  not  valid.  Whence  do  you 
know,  that  there  is  a  difference  between  public  property  and 
individual  property  ?  This  is  known  from  the  narrative  of 
Rabhin  bar  Ada  concerning  an  entry  which  faced  the  sea  (see 
Chapter  X.,  Mishna  4). 

There  was  another  entry  made  in  the  form  of  a  right  angle 
and  a  mat  was  placed  at  the  angle.  R.  Hisda  said  in  reference 
to  this:  "This  is  neither  in  accordance  with  Rabh  nor  with 
Samuel.  According  to  Rabh,  who  considers  an  entry  of  this 
kind  as  an  open  entry,  an  apparent  door  would  be  necessary,  and 
according  to  Samuel,  who  considers  it  as  an  entry  closed  at  one 
end,  a  side-beam  would  be  necessary;  and  this  mat  is  neither 
one  nor  the  other,  because  it  might  be  blown  away  by  the 
wind  and  would  leave  nothing  behind."  If,  however,  the  mat 
was  fastened  with  a  nail  so  that  it  could  not  be  blown  away,  it  is 
suf^cient. 


14  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

It  was  taught :  An  entry  made  in  the  form  of  a  centipede 
{i.e.,  an  entry  containing  a  number  of  smaller  entries  which  on 
one  side  faced  a  street  and  the  principal  entry  also  faced  a  street) 
should,  according  to  Abayi,  be  provided  with  an  apparent  door, 
and  the  smaller  ones  should  be  provided  with  a  side  and  cross 
beam  where  they  face  the  street.  Said  Rabha  to  Abayi:  "  Ac- 
cording to  whose  opinion  is  this  ?  According  to  Samuel's,  who 
holds,  that  such  an  entry  is  to  be  regarded  as  a  closed  entry; 
then  why  is  an  apparent  door  necessary  ?  Secondly,  we  know 
that  in  the  case  of  the  entry  made  in  the  form  of  a  right  angle 
at  Neherdai,  the  decision  of  Rabh  was  also  respected."  There- 
fore the  decree  of  Rabha  is,  that  apparent  doors  should  be  made 
at  the  smaller  entries  where  they  face  the  large  entry,  and  the 
sides  facing  the  street  only  need  a  side  or  cross  beam.* 

3aid  R.  Kahana  bar  Tachlipha  in  the  name  of  R.  Kahana 
bafMinyumi  in  the  name  of  R.  Kahana  bar  Malchiyu,  quoting 
R.  Kahana  the  master  of  Rabh  [according  to  others,  R.  Kahana 
bar  Malchiyu  himself  was  the  master  of  Rabh]  :  "  An  entry,  one 
side  of  which  was  wide  and  the  other  narrow,  should,  if  the 
wider  side  be  less  than  four  ells,  be  provided  with  a  cross-beam 
laid  obliquely,  but  if  it  measured  fully  four  ells,  the  cross-beam 
should  be  laid  on  the  narrow  side."  Rabha,  however,  said,  that 
in  either  case,  the  cross-beam  should  be  placed  on  the  narrow 
side.  "  And,"  he  continues,  "  I  will  state  the  reason  for  my 
opinion,  and  the  reason  for  the  previous  opinion:  In  my  opinion 
a  cross-beam  is  necessary  merely  to  serve  as  a  sign,  and  if  laid 
obliquely  it  cannot  be  seen  and  thus  would  not  be  a  sign. 
According  to  the  opinion  of  the  previous  teachers,  the  cross- 
beam serves  as  a  wall,  and  if  such  is  the  case,  a  wall  can  be  a 
wall  even  if  placed  obliquely."  Said  R.  Kahana:  "  This  being 
a  decree  by  Kahanim,  being  myself  a  Kahan  I  will  also  venture 
to  say  something:  The  cross-beam  must  be  placed  obliquely  if 
the  oblique  part  does  not  measure  more  than  ten  ells."  If  it  was 
more  than  ten  ells,  however,  all  agree  that  it  must  be  placed  on 
the  narrow  side  only. 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question:  "May  the  space 
underneath  the  cross-beam  be  used  ? "  Rabh,  R.  Hyya,  and  R. 
Johanan  said,  that  it  may  be  used.  Samuel,  R.  Simeon  ben 
Rabbi,  and  Resh  Lakish  said,  that  it  must  not  be  used.     Said 


*  According  to  another  version  the  apparent  doors  should  be  made  where  the 
entries  face  the  street,  but  we  cite  the  opinion  of  Rashi  as  usual. 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  15 

R.  Hisda:  All  agree  that  if  a  side-beam  is  used,  the  space 
opposite*  the  side-beam  must  on  no  account  be  used. 

Rami  bar  Hama  asked  R.  Hisda:  "  If  one  drove  two  posts 
on  the  outside  of  an  entry  and  placed  a  cross-beam  on  top  of 
them,  how  is  the  law  concerning  the  entry?"  He  answered : 
According  to  those  who  hold  that  the  space  underneath  the 
cross-beam  may  be  used,  the  entry  is  invalid,  but  according  to 
those  who  hold,  that  the  space  underneath  the  cross-beam  must 
not  be  used,  the  entry  is  valid  {i.e.,  those  who  hold  that  the 
space  underneath  the  cross-beam  must  not  be  used  regard  the 
inside  edge  of  the  cross-beam  as  if  it  made  a  solid  wall  to  the 
entry;  hence  the  entry  is  valid  because  it  is  considered  a  closed 
entry,  and  if  the  posts  and  cross-beams  are  on  the  outside,  the 
entry  is  nevertheless  closed  and  valid ;  but  those  who  hold  that 
the  space  underneath  the  cross-beam  must  not  be  used,  regard 
the  outside  edge  of  the  cross-beam  as  the  closing  wall  of  the 
entry;  hence  there  will  be  an  open  space  between  the  entry 
and  the  outside  posts  and  cross-beam,  and  the  entry  is  made 
invalid).  Rabha,  however,  said  that  even  according  to  the 
opinion  of  those  who  hold  that  the  space  underneath  the  cross- 
beam must  not  be  used,  the  entry  is  invalid  because  the  cross- 
beam must  be  recumbent  upon  the  entry  proper  and  not  upon 
the  outside. 

R.  Zakai  taught  in  the  presence  of  R.  Johanan :  The  space 
underneath  the  cross-beams  and  alongside  of  the  side-beams  is 
considered  unclaimed  ground  {i.e.,  that  one  must  not  carry 
things  in  that  space  on  Sabbath).  Said  R.  Johanan  to  him : 
"  Go  and  teach  such  things  outside  of  the  college."  Said 
Abayi:  "  It  seems  to  me  that  R.  Johanan's  opposition  to  R. 
Zakai  was  only  as  far  as  the  space  underneath  the  cross-beam  is 
concerned,  but  alongside  of  the  side-beams  it  is  prohibited  to 
carry."  Rabha,  however,  said:  Even  alongside  of  the  side- 
beams  it  is  also  allowed  to  carry. 

Said  R.  Huna  bar  R.  Jehoshua  to  Rabha:  "  Thou  dost  not 
think,  that  it  is  prohibited  to  carry  things  alongside  of  the  side- 
beams  ? "     Did  not  Rabba  bar  bar  Hana  say  in  the  name  of  R. 


*  In  the  text  is  written  "Bain,"  "  between"  the  side-beams.  Rashi,  however, 
declares  that  here  it  does  not  mean  between  the  side-beams,  but  opposite,  as  between 
the  side-beams  cannot  be  possible,  because  every  entry  must  have  only  one  side-beam, 
and  Rashi  says  the  reason  that  the  text  states  "  between  "  is,  that  the  text  mentions 
the  side-beams  in  plural,  meaning  many  entries,  and  the  word  Neged  in  Hebrew, 
which  -iieans  "opposite,"  cannot  be  said  in  plural. 


i6  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

Johanan,  that  an  entry  which  was  provided  with  a  number  of 
side-beams  the  space  between  each  of  which  did  not  measure 
four  spans,  causes  a  difference  of  opinion  between  R. 
Simeon  ben  Gamaliel  and  the  sages.  According  to 
R.  Simeon,  an  object  becomes  "  lavud "  (attached) 
to  another  object  even  when  the  distance  between 
them  is  four  spans,  but  according  to  the  sages,  the 
distance  must  not  exceed  three  spans.  Hence  in  the  case  just 
mentioned  (see  illustration)  according  to  R.  Simeon  all  the 
beams  are  regarded  as  one  by  virtue  of  their  being  "  lavud  " 
to  each  other,  and  a  man  must  not  carry  anything  beyond  the 
space  alongside  of  the  inside  edge  of  the  beam  farthest  from  the 
opening  of  the  entry,  while,  according  to  the  sages,  who  regard 
only  the  beam  nearest  the  opening  of  the  entry  essential  and 
the  others  unnecessary,  a  man  may  carry  things  as  far  as  the 
space  alongside  of  the  Inside  edge  of  the  beam  nearest  the  open- 
ing of  the  entry.  In  the  space  between  the  side-beams  all  agree 
that  it  is  prohibited  to  carry.  Now,  if  R.  Johanan  permitted 
the  carrying  of  things  alongside  of  the  side-beams,  how  could  he 
state  the  difference  of  opinion  between  R.  Simeon  and  the  sages 
in  this  case  ?  For  whether  all  the  beams  were  considered  as  one 
or  each  separately,  what  difference  would  It  make  as  long  as 
things  may  be  carried  in  the  space  between  them  ?  Hence  we 
must  say,  that  R.  Johanan  does  not  permit  the  carrying  of 
things  alongside  of  the  beams  ?  In  this  Instance,  Rabha  might 
declare,  that  the  entry  is  presumed  to  be  one  that  opens  Into 
unclaimed  ground.  How  would  the  case  be  If  the  entry  opened 
Into  public  ground  ?  Would  It  be  allowed  according  to  R. 
Johanan  to  carry  things  between  the  side-beams  ?  Shall  the 
native  remain  on  earth  and  the  stranger  be  lifted  up  to  the  high- 
est heaven?*  Yea;  objects  of  like  character  assimilate,  i.e., 
the  space  between  the  side-beams  being  unclaimed  ground  and 
the  entry  opening  Into  unclaimed  ground,  the  two  are  virtually 
combined,  and  as  carrying  In  unclaimed  ground  is  not  allowed  to 
commence  with,  It  is  also  not  allowed  In  the  space  between  the 
beams. 

R.  AshI  said,  however:  The  case  referred  to,  viz.,  the  entry 
•containing  many  side-beams.  Is  assumed  to  be  one  where  the 
side-beams  were  erected  for  a  distance  of  four  ells  and  were  less 


♦  An  expression  used  to  signify  astonishment  at  an  unnecessary  or  superfluous 
question,  the  answer  to  which  is  self-evident. 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  17 

than  four  spans  apart.  If,  according  to  R.  Simeon,  the  beams 
are  all  "  lavud  "  to  each  other,  they  would  constitute  a  separate 
entry  in  the  principal  entry,  and  in  order  to  carry  things  in  the 
space  between  the  beams  another  side-beam  would  have  to  be 
erected  for  the  newly  made  entry;  but  according  to  the  sages, 
who  do  not  consider  the  beams  "  lavud  "  to  each  other,  another 
side-beam  is  not  necessary.  (This  means  to  say:  R.  Johanan 
holds,  that  under  any  circumstances  the  space  between  the  side- 
beams  may  be  utilized  (for  carrying)  and  the  difference  caused 
by  such  an  entry  between  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel  and  the 
sages  is  not  as  to  whether  things  may  be  carried  in  the  space  be- 
tween the  beams  or  not,  as  stated  before,  but  whether  another 
side-beam  is  required  in  addition  to  those  already  erected  or 
not.) 

It  was  taught :  If  a  side-beam  was  made  to  an  entry  which 
on  the  inside  of  the  entry  could  be  plainly  seen  but  on  the  out- 
side seemed  to  be  on  a  par  with  the  wall  and  hence  not  recogniz- 
able, it  is  regarded  as  a  proper  side-beam,  but  if  it  could  be 
plainly  seen  on  the  outside,  but  on  the  inside  it  seemed  to  be 
part  of  the  wall  and  could  not  be  distinguished  from  the  wall,  it 
gives  rise  to  a  difference  of  opinion  between  R.  Hyya  and  R. 
Simeon  the  son  of  Rabbi.  One  holds,  that  it  may  be  regarded  as 
a  proper  side-beam,  and  the  other,  that  it  cannot  be  so  regarded. 
It  is  correctly  ascertained  that  R.  Hyya  is  the  one  who  holds 
that  it  may  be  regarded  as  a  proper  side-beam,  from  his  decision 
as  follows:  "  If  one  of  the  walls  of  an  entry  was  partially  removed 
(see  illustration  a),  so  that  the  lack- 
ing portion  could  be  perceived  from 
the  inside  of  the  entry  but  not  from 
the  outside  of  same,  or  if  part  of  the 
wall  was  missing  (see  illustration 
b),  so  that  it  could  be  readily  per- 
ceived on  the  outside  of  the  entry  but  not  on  the  inside,  in 
either  case  the  impaired  wall  is  regarded  as  a  side-beam." 

Rabba  bar  R.  Huna  taught  the  same:  "  If  a  side-beam  was 
recognized  on  the  outside  of  an  entry  but  could  not  be  distin- 
guished on  the  inside  it  is  nevertheless  regarded  as  aside-beam." 
Said  R.  Joseph  to  him:  "  I  never  heard  such  an  ordinance  pro- 
claimed by  thy  father."  Said  Abayi  to  R.  Joseph:  "Didst 
thou  not  thyself  teach  this  ordinance  when  we  learned  the  fol- 
lowing: Rami  bar  Abba  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Huna,  that  a 
side-beam,  which  was  affixed  to  the  end  of  a  wall  so  that  it  could 

VOL.    III. — 2 


li  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

be  seen  from  the  outside  but  seemed  to  be  a  continuation  of  the 
wall  from  the  inside,  is  regarded  as  a  side-beam,  if  measuring 
less  than  four  ells  and  the  entry  may  be  used  from  the  inside 
edge  of  such  beam,  but  if  the  side-beam  measured  four  ells,  it  is 
regarded  as  a  separate  entry,  and  thus  the  entry  proper,  not  hav- 
ing any  side-beam,  is  made  invalid.  Thou  didst  comment  upon 
this  and  say,  that  from  this  teaching  we  may  adduce  three  things. 
Firstly,  that  the  space  alongside  of  a  side-beam  must  not  be 
used ;  secondly,  that  four  ells  is  the  minimum  measure  of  an 
entry;  and,  thirdly,  that  if  a  side-beam  can  be  recognized  on  the 
outside  but  not  on  the  inside  of  the  entry,  it  is  a  proper  side- 
beam."  Finally,  the  Halakha  concerning  a  side-beam  recogniz- 
able from  without  but  not  within  the  entry  prevails :  that  the 
side-beam  is  valid  because  such  was  the  decision  of  R.  Hyya,  as 
is  mentioned  above. 

"  Should  it  be  wider  than  ten  ells,  it  mtist  be  made  narrower.'* 
Said  Abayi :  We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha  concerning  this  teach- 
ing, that  R.  Jehudah  regarded  this  as  unnecessary. 

How  much  narrower  should  it  be  made  ?  R.  A'ha  wished  to 
state,,  in  the  presence  of  R.  Joseph,  that  if  the  entry  measured 
twenty  ells,  it  should  be  reduced  to  thirteen  and  a  third  ells. 
He  wished  to  infer  this  lenient  measure  from  the  more  rigorous 

in  the  case  of  a  well.     The  wells  were  built  as 

V/  \j     illustrated,    and    the   distance    between    the   two 

©enclosures  on  the  same  side  was  thirteen  and  a 
third  ells;  i.e.,    large    enough    to    permit    of   the 
l*^  A     entrance  and  exit  at  the  same  time  of  two  teams 

of  oxen  and  was  larger  than  the  space  occupied 
by  the  enclosures  on  the  same  side.  Now,  if  in  that  case  it  was 
permitted  to  have  the  space  larger  than  the  space  occupied  by 
the  enclosures,  and  thirteen  and  a  third  ells  only  were  allotted  to 
such  space,  an  entry  where  the  space  must  not  be  more  than  the 
enclosure  should  certainly  not  be  over  thirteen  and  a  third  ells 
wide  ?  How  can  the  two  be  compared  ?  Perhaps  the  reason, 
that  no  more  than  thirteen  and  a  third  ells  were  allowed  for  the 
space  of  the  wells  was  because  a  concession  had  already  been 
made  in  permitting  the  space  to  be  larger  than  the  walled  part 
and  no  further  leniency  was  expedient.  In  the  case  of  the  entry, 
however,  where  no  concession  had  as  yet  been  made,  let  it  be 
allowed  to  increase  the  width  of  the  space  beyond  thirteen  and 
a  third  ells  (because  it  serves  the  purpose  of  a  door)  ?  Or  on 
the  contrary!     A  concession  having  been  made  in  the  case  of  th*^ 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  19 

well,  but  no  concession  having  been  made  concerning  an  entry, 
let  the  law  of  the  entry  be  enforced  without  any  concession  and 
make  the  prescribed  width  ten  ells  only.  (Thus  the  question 
remains  undecided.) 

Levi  taught  a  Boraitha  as  follows:  "In  an  entry  which  is 
twenty  ells  wide  it  is  sufficient  if  a  stick  be  placed  in  the  centre 
of  such  entry."  He  himself  however  decreed,  that  the  Halakha 
does  not  prevail  according  to  the  Boraitha.  What  then  should 
be  done  ?  Samuel  said  in  the  name  of  Levi:  "  A  pole  should 
be  erected  in  the  centre  of  the  entry  ten  spans  high  and  four 
ells  wide,  and  a  cross-beam  placed  on  top  of  it  parallel  with  the 
walls  of  the  entry,  which  would  then  serve  as  a  partition  in  the 
centre."  Or  it  should  be  done  as  R.  Jehudah  declared:  In  an 
entry  fifteen  ells  wide  a  pole  should  be  erected  two  ells  from 
one  of  the  walls  and  a  cross-beam  extending  three  ells  into  the 
centre  of  the  entry  should  be  placed  on  top  of  the  pole.  (Thus 
the  width  will  be  lessened  five  ells,  the  two  between  the  wall 
and  the  pole  being  regarded  as  a  closed  door.  In  the  case  of 
an  entry  twenty  ells  wide  this  may  be  done  on  both  sides  of  the 
entry,  or  the  pole  may  be  erected  four  ells  from  the  wall  and  the 
cross-beam  extended  six  ells.)  If  the  people  who  make  use  of 
the  entry,  however,  should  use  the  space  of  two  ells  between  the 
wall  and  the  pole  in  preference  to  the  wider  opening  of  the 
entry,  will  not  the  principal  entry  be  invalidated  by  the  lack  of 
a  side-beam  ?  Said  R.  Ada  bar  Mattue :  It  is  an  established  fact 
that  people  will  not  use  the  smaller  entrance  in  preference  to  the 
larger.  Why  is  this  case  different  from  the  one  taught  by  R. 
Ami  and  R.  Assi,  for  we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  If  there  was 
a  breach  in  the  side  of  a  wall  close  to  the  entry,  it  was  taught  in 
the  name  of  R.  Ami  and  R.  Assi  (page  ^a  in  the  original  text), 
that  if  the  strip  of  wall  left  was  four  ells  wide,  it  matters  not  if 
the  breach  was  ten  ells;  but  if  the  strip  is  less  than  four  ells,  the 
breach  must  not  exceed  three  ells,  otherwise  the  entry  is  invalid. 
(Now  if  the  strip  is  four  ells,  and  the  breach  ten,  the  breach  is 
regarded  as  a  door,  and  it  might  be  used  in  preference  to  the 
main  entrance.  In  the  former  case,  only  such  as  will  be  nearer 
the  side  entrance  will  use  it,  but  in  this  case,  the  main  entrance 
will  be  used  exclusively,  because. one  will  not  unnecessarily  go 
in  a  roundabout  way.) 

' '  But  if  it  have  the  appearance  of  a  door,  even  though  it  be 
wider  than  ten  ells  it  need  not  be  made  narrower. 

Now  we  see  that  an  apparent  door  may  be  used  where  the 


20  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

entry  is  too  wide  and  a  cross-beam  if  it  be  too  high,  what 
would  be  the  law  if  the  reverse  were  made  ?  Come  and  hear: 
We  have  learned:  "If  an  entry  be  higher  than  twenty  ells,  it 
should  be  reduced,  but  if  it  have  the  appearance  of  a  door,  this 
is  not  necessary."  What  is  the  law  concerning  a  cross-beam 
when  the  width  of  the  entry  was  excessive?  Come  and  hear: 
We  have  learned:  "If  an  entry  be  higher  than  twenty  ells  it 
should  be  lowered  and  if  it  be  wider  than  ten  ells  it  should  be 
reduced,  but  if  it  have  an  appearance  of  a  door  it  is  not  neces- 
sary and  if  it  have  a  cross-beam  it  is  also  not  necessary. "  Could 
we  not  assume,  that  the  cross-beam  refers  to  the  latter  clause  of 
that  teaching  (the  excessive  width  of  the  entry)  ?  Nay;  it  refers 
to  the  first  clause  of  the  teaching  (the  height). 

R.  Jehudah  taught  Hyya  the  son  of  Rabh  in  the  presence 
of  Rabh:  "  It  is  not  necessary  to  reduce  (the  width  of  an  entry 
if  it  have  a  cross-beam)."  Said  Rabh  to  R.  Jehudah:  "  Teach 
him,  that  it  should  be  reduced."  Said  R.  Joseph:  From  this 
teaching  of  our  Master  we  can  learn,  that  a  courtyard,  of  which 
the  greater  part  of  the  walls  consists  of  doors  and  windows  and 
one  of  the  walls  contained  a  breach  of  over  ten  ells,  the  appear- 
ance of  a  door  would  not  make  it  valid  {i.e.,  things  could  not  be 
carried  in  the  courtyard  on  Sabbath).  Why  so  ?  Because  we 
see,  that  width  exceeding  ten  ells  makes  an  entry  invalid,  and 
space  in  excess  of  that  occupied  by  the  walls  makes  a  courtyard 
invalid ;  now,  we  compare  an  entry  which  is  wider  than  ten  ells 
and  is  held  by  our  Master  to  be  invalid  even  if  it  have  the 
appearance  of  a  door,  to  a  court  which  has  a  breach  exceeding 
ten  ells,  and  is  also  not  made  valid  by  an  apparent  door. 

R.  Johanan  also  holds  in  accordance  with  the  teaching  of 
Rabh,  for  Rabhin  bar  R.  Ada  in  the  name  of  R.  Itz'hak  said : 
It  happened  that  a  man  of  the  valley  of  Beth  Hurtan  placed 
four  piles  in  the  four  corners  of  his  field  and  connected  the  four 
piles  with  branches  at  the  top  for  the  purpose  of  circumvening 
the  law  of  Kilaim.  When  this  was  told  to  the  sages,  they 
allowed  him  to  do  so  for  the  purpose  intimated  {i.e.,  the  field 
was  regarded  as  if  surrounded  by  a  wall,  and  he  could  sow  other 
seeds  on  the  outside  of  the  seeming  wall),  and  Resh  Lakish  said : 
"  In  the  same  manner  as  the  sages  permitted  the  man  to  do  this 
for  the  purpose  of  circumvening  the  law  of  Kilaim,  so  also  did 
they  allow  him  to  do  it  for  the  purpose  of  the  Sabbath  law.  R. 
Johanan,  however,  said,  that  this  was  allowed  only  for  Kilaim 
purposes  but    not    for  Sabbath."      (Whence  we   see   that    R. 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  21 

Johanan  holds  with  Rabh  that  an  entry  over  ten  ells  in  width  is 
not  remedied  by  a  seeming  door.) 

R,  Hisda  said:  "  If  a  man  made  a  seeming  door  in  the  side 
of  a  wall,  it  counts  for  nothing. "  And  he  said  again:  "  A  seem- 
ing door  must  be  firm  enough  to  be  able  to  contain  an  actual 
door,  even  though  it  be  only  a  door  of  straw." 

Resh  Lakish  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Janai,  that  an  apparent 
door  must  have  a  place  fit  for  the  attachment  of  hinges.  What 
is  meant  by  a  place  fit  for  the  attachment  of  hinges  ?  Said  R. 
Ivia:  A  receptacle  for  same. 

R.  A'ha  the  son  of  R.  Ivia  found  once  the  disciples  of  R. 
Ashi,  and  he  asked  them :  "  Did  the  master  say  anything  about 
apparent  doors?"  and  they  answered  him:  "Nay;  he  said 
nothing." 

A  Boraitha  stated :  "  By  an  apparent  door  is  meant  simply  two 
poles  set  up  perpendicularly  one  on  each  side  and  a  pole  across 
the  top  of  the  two."  Must  the  pole  above  be  attached  to  the 
two  perpendicular  poles,  or  is  it  sufficient  if  it  is  suspended  above 
them  ?  R.  Na'hman  said,  they  need  not  be  attached,  but  R. 
Shesheth  said  they  must  be.  R.  Na'hman  did  in  accordance 
with  his  own  decision  at  the  house  of  the  Exilarch  (R.  Na'hman 
was  a  son-in-law  of  the  Exilarch).  Said  R.  Shesheth  to  his  ser- 
vant, R.  Gada:  "  Go,  take  it  down  and  put  it  away."  He  went, 
took  it  down,  and  put  it  away.  The  servants  of  the  Exilarch 
found  him  doing  so  and  arrested  him  for  it.  Then  R.  Shesheth 
went  and  stood  on  the  outside  of  the  prison  and  called  out: 
"  Gada,  come  out ! ' '    Gada  came  out  and  went  with  R.  Shesheth. 

R.  Shesheth  met  Rabba  the  son  of  Samuel  on  the  street ;  and 
he  asked  him:  "  Did  the  master  teach  anything  concerning  an 
apparent  door  ?  "  Rabba  answered:  "  Yea!  "We  have  learned 
concerning  an  arch,  R.  Meir  decreed,  that  a  Mezuzah  (sign  on 
the  door-post)  must  be  fastened  to  it,  but  the  sages  say,  that  it 
is  not  necessary."  (The  reason  the  sages  say,  that  a  Mezuzah  is 
not  necessary  is  because  the  zenith  of  the  arch  is  not  four  spans 
wide,  and  no  door  is  properly  a  door  that  is  not  at  least  four  spans 
wide.)  All  agree,  however,  that  if  the  arch  is  ten  spans  wide  at 
its  base  {i.e.,  before  the  curve  commences,  then  it  is  certain  that 
for  at  least  ten  spans  upwards  the  arch  has  a  width  of  four  spans), 
a  Mezuzah  is  necessary,  and  Abayi  said:  "  All  agree,  that  if  the 
arch  is  ten  spans  high  and  the  base  is  less  than  three  spans  wide, 
or  if  the  base  is  three  spans  wide  but  the  arch  is  less  than  ten 
spans  high,  no  Mezuzah  is  necessary  (because  a  door  cannot  be 


22  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

less  than  ten  spans  high),  but  wherein  do  they  differ  ?  In  a  case 
where  the  base  of  the  arch  was  less  than  four  spans  wide,  and 
the  arch  itself  ten  spans  high,  but  at  the  top  of  the  arch  the 
width  could,  by  hollowing  out  the  wall,  be  increased  to  four 
spans'  width,  R.  Meir  holds  that  a  Mezuzah  is  necessary, 
because  the  possibility  of  increasing  its  width  renders  it  equiva- 
lent to  having  been  increased,  but  the  sages  hold  that  a  Mezu- 
zah is  not  necessary,  because  it  had  not  yet  been  increased  in 
width."  (Thence  we  see  that  R.  Meir  holds  that  the  possibility 
of  accomplishing  an  act  renders  it  equivalent  to  having  been  per- 
formed, and,  in  consequence,  he  holds  that  if  a  pole  was  merely 
suspended  above  two  poles  it  is  the  same  as  if  it  were  placed  on 
top  of  the  poles.)  Said  R.  Shesheth  to  him:  "  If  thou  shouldst 
meet  the  members  of  the  house  of  the  Exilarch,  tell  them 
nothing  of  the  Boraitha  concerning  the  arch." 

MISHNA:  To  legalize  (the  carrying  within)  an  entry,  Beth 
Shammai  hold  that  a  side  and  cross  beam  are  required,  but  Beth 
Hillel  hold,  that  either  a  post  or  a  beam  is  sufficient.  R.  Eliezer 
said,  "Two  side-beams  are  necessary."  In  the  name  of  R. 
Ishmael,  a  disciple  stated  before  R.  Aqiba:  "Beth  Shammai 
and  Beth  Hillel  do  not  differ  as  to  an  entry  less  than  four  ells 
in  width,  for  both  agree,  that  such  an  entry  becomes  legalized 
either  through  a  cross-beam  or  a  side-beam."  Wherein  do  they 
differ  ?  Concerning  entries  of  more  than  four  and  up  to  ten  ells 
in  width.  Regarding  these,  Beth  Shammai  hold,  that  both  a 
side  and  cross  beam  are  necessary,  and  Beth  Hillel  hold,  that 
either  a  side  or  a  cross  beam  is  sufficient.  R.  Aqiba,  however, 
said:  "  They  (the  two  schools)  differ  in  both  instances." 

GEMARA :  According  to  whose  opinion  is  the  Mishna  ?  It 
is  neither  according  to  the  opinion  of  the  first  Tana  nor  to  that 
of  Hananiah  (see  page  lo).  Said  R.  Jehudah:  The  Mishna 
means  to  state  the  following:  "  To  legalize  a  closed  entry  (one 
enclosed  on  three  sides)  Beth  Shammai  hold  that  a  side  and 
cross  beam  are  necessary,  while  Beth  Hillel  hold,  that  either  one 
is  sufficient."  Shall  we  assume  that  In  order  to  constitute  a 
private  ground  from  a  biblical  point  of  view,  according  to  Beth 
Shammai,  four  walls  are  necessary  (because  the  entry  by  the 
addition  of  a  side  and  cross  beam  would  be  turned  Into  a  seem- 
ing wall)  ?  Nay ;  throwing  to  or  from  public  ground  In  ground 
enclosed  by  three  walls,  makes  one  culpable  from  a  biblical  point 
of  view,  but  carrying  is  permitted  only  in  ground  enclosed  by 
four  walls  by  the  rabbinical  law,  according  to  Beth  Shammai. 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  23 

Shall  we  assume  that  Beth  Hillel  hold,  that  three  walls,  according 
to  biblical  law,  are  necessary?  Nay;  from  a  biblical  point  of 
view,  throwing  to  or  from  public  ground  in  ground  enclosed  by 
two  walls  makes  one  culpable,  but  carrying  is  not  permitted  in 
ground  unless  enclosed  by  three  walls  by  rabbinical  law,  accord- 
ing to  Beth  Hillel. 

"  R.  Eliezer  said,  '  Two  side-beams  are  necessary.'  "  The 
schoolmen  propounded  a  question:  "  Did  R.  Eliezer  mean  to 
state,  that  two  side-beams  and  a  cross-beam  are  necessary  or  two 
side-beams  alone  ?"  Come  and  hear:  It  happened  that  R.  Eli- 
ezer was  going  to  R.  Jose  ben  Preida,  his  disciple,  in  the  city  of 
Ublin,  and  he  found  him  sitting  in  an  entry  provided  with  only 
one  side-beam.  Said  R.  Eliezer  to  him  :  '  My  son,  erect  another 
side-beam.'  Said  his  disciple  to  him:  '  Must  I  then  close  the 
entry  ? '  and  he  answered :  '  Close  it ;  what  matters  it  if  it  be 
closed  ?'  Now,  from  the  words  of  the  disciple,  "  Must  I  then 
close  it  ? "  we  can  infer,  that  it  was  already  provided  with  a 
cross-beam,  and,  therefore,  the  disciple  asked  what  more  he  must 
do,  close  it  entirely  ?  Then,  if  we  assume  that  there  was  only 
a  side-beam,  why  should  the  disciple  have  said,  "  Must  I  close  it 
entirely?"  Nay;  the  disciple  may  have  simply  meant  to  ask, 
must  he  close  it  up  entirely  with  side-beams;  and  it  maybe, 
that  there  was  no  cross-beam  there  at  all. 

(In  the  same  Tosephta)  we  are  taught  so :  R.  Simeon  ben 
Gamaliel  said:  "  Beth  Shammai  and  Beth  Hillel  do  not  differ  as 
to  an  entry  that  was  less  than  four  ells  in  width."  According  to 
both  schools,  for  such  an  entry  nothing  at  all  need  be  provided. 
Wherein  they  do  differ  is  an  entry  that  is  more  than  four  ells 
wide  and  up  to  ten ;  Beth  Shammai  hold,  that  a  side  and  cross 
beam  both  are  necessary,  and  Beth  Hillel  hold,  that  either  is 
sufificient.  Did  not  our  Mishna  state  that  a  disciple  in  the  name 
of  R.  Ishmael  stated  before  R.  Aqiba:  "  Beth  Shammai  and 
Beth  Hillel  do  not  differ  as  to  an  entry  less  than  four  ells  in 
width,  for  both  agree,  that  such  an  entry  becomes  legalized  either 
through  a  cross-beam  or  a  side-beam  "  ?  Said  R.  Ashi :  "  R. 
Simeon  ben  Gamaliel  means  to  state,  that  a  side  and  cross  beam 
are  not  necessary  according  to  the  opinion  of  Beth  Shammai,  nor 
two  side-beams  according  to  the  opinion  of  R.  Eliezer,  but  one 
of  the  two,  either  a  side  or  cross  beam  according  to  the  opinion 
of  Beth  Hillel"  (i.e.,  by  saying  that  for  such  an  entry  nothing 
need  be  provided,  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel  means  to  state,  that 
nothing  added  by  Beth  Shammai  or  R.  Eliezer  need  be  provided). 


24  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

An  entry  of  how  much  less  than  four  ells  in  width  ?  Said  R. 
A'hlai,  according  to  another  version  R.  Ye'hiel:  "  An  entry  of 
less  than  four  spans  need  have  nothing  (and  from  four  spans  up 
to  four  ells,  the  side  or  cross  beam  is  necessary)." 

Said  R.  Assi  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan :  "  A  courtyard  must 
have  two  enclosures."  Said  R.  Zera  to  R.  Assi:  "Did  R. 
Johanan  indeed  say  so.  Didst  thou  not  thyself  state  in  the 
name  of  R.  Johanan,  that  the  enclosures  of  a  courtyard  must 
measure  at  least  four  ells  ?  And  if  thou  wouldst  explain  R. 
Johanan's  dictum  to  signify,  that  the  enclosures  would  have  to 
be  four  ells  on  each  side  of  the  angle,  did  not  R.  Ada  bar 
Abhimi  state  before  R.  Hanina  or  before  R.  Hanina  bar  Papa, 
that  a  small  courtyard  need  only  have  enclosures  to  the  extent  of 
ten  ells  all  around  and  a  large  courtyard  to  the  extent  of  eleven 
ells."  (Now,  if  eleven  ells  are  divided  by  four,  that  would  make 
each  of  the  four  enclosures  only  two  and  three-quarter  ells  ?) 
When  R.  Zera  came  from  his  sea-voyage  he  explained  this  in 
the  following  manner:  If  an  enclosure  was  made  straight  on  one 
pide  it  must  be  four  ells  wide,  but  if  made  at  an  angle  in  the 
corner  it  is  sufificient  if  ever  so  small  a  part  be  on  each  side.  As 
for  Ada's  bar  Abhimi  statement  above,  it  is  in  accordance  with 
the  decree  of  Rabbi  (and  not  R.  Johanan),  who  holds  in 
accordance  with  R.  Jose  (that  every  side-beam  must  be  three 
spans  wide),  as  will  be  seen  further  on. 

R.  Joseph  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Jehudah,  quoting  Samuel: 
"  A  courtyard  need  have  but  one  enclosure,"  Said  Abayi  to 
him:  "Did  Samuel  indeed  say  this?  We  know  that  Samuel 
said  to  R.  Hananiah  bar  Shila :  '  Thou  shalt  not  perform  any 
work  in  a  courtyard  that  has  not  the  larger  part  of  a  wall  or  two 
enclosures ! '  "  Said  R.  Joseph :  "  I  do  not  know  whether  Samuel 
said  so  or  not,  but  I  do  know,  that  it  happened  in  the  village  of 
the  shepherds,  that  an  arm  of  the  sea  flowed  into  a  courtyard, 
and  when  R.  Jehudah  was  asked  what  the  law  was  concerning 
that  courtyard,  he  replied:  '  Only  one  enclosure  is  necessary.'  " 
Then  Abayi  rejoined:  "  Thou  speakest  of  an  arm  of  the  sea; 
that  is  altogether  different !  The  sages  were  very  lenient  with 
all  things  pertaining  to  water,  as  R.  Tabla  asked  Rabh :  *  What 
is  the  law  concerning  a  ruin  that  had  one  suspended  partition  ? 
May  things  be  carried  within  it  on  Sabbath  or  not  ? '  and  Rabh 
answered :  '  A  hanging  partition  legalizes  a  place  only  where 
water  reaches,  because  the  sages  were  very  lenient  with  all  things 
pertaining  to  water.'  " 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  25 

In  any  event  this  would  be  a  contradiction  to  R.  Jehudah's 
statement  in  the  name  of  Samuel,  and  to  Samuel's  statement  to 
Hananiah.  When  R.  Papa  and  R.  Huna  the  son  of  R.  Jehoshua 
came  from  college,  they  explained  Samuel's  decree  thus:  "  On 
one  side  the  enclosure  must  be  at  least  four  ells,  but  when  made 
on  a  corner,  ever  so  small  a  part  of  the  enclosures  on  each  side 
of  the  angle  is  sufficient."  (Thus  both  statements  may  be  cor- 
rect. R.  Jehudah's  one  enclosure  refers  to  a  straight  enclosure 
and  Samuel's  two  refer  to  an  enclosure  at  each  corner.) 

The  Rabbis  taught :  From  an  arm  of  the  sea,  which  enters  a 
courtyard,  water  must  not  be  taken  on  Sabbath  unless  a  parti- 
tion has  been  made  at  the  entrance  at  least  ten  spans  in  height. 
This  is  the  case  if  the  breach  in  the  wall  (where  the  sea  entered) 
is  more  than  ten  ells  in  width,  but  if  it  was  only  ten  ells,  no  par- 
tition is  necessary. 

Thus,  you  say,  that  water  must  not  be  taken  from  the  arm 
of  the  sea,  but  things  may  be  carried  within  the  courtyard  ?  Did 
not  the  breach  in  the  wall  open  into  ground  that  would  invalidate 
the  courtyard  {i.e.,  unclaimed  ground)  ?  In  this  case  fragments 
of  the  wall  were  left  beyond  the  breach  and  they  were  inundated 
by  the  sea  (but  were  originally  ten  spans  high). 

It  was  taught:  R.  Jehudah  said:  "  An  open  entry  which  is 
not  suitable  for  the  purpose  of  combining  in  an  Erub,  if  it  was 
provided  with  a  side-beam,  anyone  throwing  a  thing  into  it  from 
public  ground  is  culpable,  but  if  the  entry  was  provided  at  one 
end  with  a  cross-beam,  one  who  throws  a  thing  into  it  from  pub- 
lic ground  is  not  culpable."  (R.  Jehudah  holds,  that  from  a 
biblical  point  of  view  three  partitions  are  necessary  to  enclose  a 
private  ground,  and  a  side-beam  at  the  end  of  an  entry  is  equiva- 
lent to  a  partition.)  Hence  R.  Jehudah  holds,  that  a  side-beam 
is  equivalent  to  a  partition,  and  a  cross-beam  is  only  put  up  for 
appearance's  sake.  So  is  also  the  opinion  of  Rabba;  but  Rabha 
said  that  both  are  erected  only  for  appearance's  sake. 

R.  Jacob  bar  Abba  made  an  objection  to  Rabha  based  on  the 
following  Boraitha:  "  If  one  throw  a  thing  into  an  entry  he  is 
culpable,  if  the  entry  is  provided  with  a  side-beam,  but  if  it  is 
not  provided  with  a  side-beam,  he  is  not  culpable."  This  is 
explained  thus :  If  the  entry  (was  a  closed  one  and)  needs  only  a 
side-beam  (for  appearance's  sake)  one  is  culpable  if  he  throws  a 
thing  into  it ;  but  if  a  side-beam  alone  would  not  legalize  the 
entry,  and  something  more  is  necessary,  the  thrower  is  not  cul- 
pable. 


26  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  "  An  entry  that  was 
equal  in  length  and  width  cannot  be  legalized  by  a  side-beam  of 
small  proportions,"  and  R.  Hyya  bar  Ashi  in  the  name  of  Rabh 
said,  that  an  entry  as  wide  as  it  is  long  cannot  be  legalized  with 
a  cross-beam  measuring  only  one  span.  Said  R.  Zera:  "  How 
well  the  decisions  of  the  old  sages  agree !  The  reason  for  the 
above  decision  is,  that  an  entry  of  equal  length  and  breadth  is 
not  regarded  as  an  entry  at  all,  but  is  in  reality  a  courtyard,  and 
a  courtyard  cannot  be  legalized  by  a  side  or  cross  beam  but 
must  have  a  partition  of  at  least  four  ells."  Said  R.  Zera  again: 
"  If  there  is  a  difficulty  in  this  decision  the  following  would  be 
the  difficulty:  Why  do  they  not  consider  a  side-beam  a  partition 
of  some  extent,  and  thus  make  it  a  medium  of  legalization  ?" 
It  evidently  slipped  the  memory  of  R.  Zera,  that  R.  Assi  said  in 
the  name  of  R.  Johanan :  "  The  enclosures  of  a  court  must  not 
be  less  than  four  ells." 

Said  R.  Na'hman:  "There  is  a  tradition  to  the  following 
effect :  Which  is  the  entry  that  can  be  legalized  by  a  side  or 
cross  beam  ?  One,  the  length  of  which  exceeds  its  width,  and 
houses  and  courts  open  into  it.  Which  is  the  court  that  cannot 
be  legalized  with  a  side  or  cross  beam,  but  must  have  an  enclosure 
which  is  not  less  than  four  ells  ?  One  that  is  square."  Only  if 
it  be  square,  but  if  round  is  it  not  a  court  ?  He  means  to  state 
this:  If  the  length  exceeded  the  width,  although  it  be  a  court, 
it  should  not  be  considered  such  but  must  be  regarded  as  an 
entry,  and  as  such  may  be  legalized  with  a  side  or  cross  beam. 
If  the  length,  however,  did  not  exceed  the  width  ?  Then,  no 
matter  what  its  appearance  was,  it  must  be  considered  as  a  court. 
By  how  much  must  the  length  exceed  the  width  ?  Samuel 
intended  to  state,  that  the  length  should  be  double  the  widta. 
Said  Rabh  to  him:  "  So  said  my  uncle,  '  Even  if  the  length 
exceeded  the  width  by  a  trifle.'  " 

R.  Aqiba  said :  "  They  differ  in  both.'' 

What  does  R.  Aqiba  teach  us  hereby  ?  Is  it  not  the  same 
as  the  teaching  of  the  first  Tana  ?  The  difference  between  them 
is  as  stated  by  R.  A'hli,  according  to  another  version  R.  Yekhiel, 
viz.  :  An  entry  of  less  than  four  spans  need  have  nothing.  But 
they  did  not  specify  who  was  of  R.  A'hli's  opinion  and  who  was 
not. 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  R.  Aqiba  said:  "  R.  Ishmael 
never  made  such  a  statement,  but  the  disciple  said  this  upon  his 
own  authority  and  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  the  disciple. 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  27 

Is  this  not  a  contradictory  assertion  ?  First,  he  says,  that  R. 
Ishmael  could  not  have  made  such  a  statement,  i.e.,  that  the 
Halakha  is  not  so,  and  then  that  the  Halakha  prevails  according 
to  the  disciple  ?  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  "  R. 
Aqiba  said  this  only  in  order  to  encourage  his  disciples,  that 
they  may  pronounce  decrees  upon  their  own  authority."  R. 
Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak  said:  "  R.  Aqiba  really  said  that  R.  Ish- 
mael made  no  such  statement,  but  the  decree  of  the  disciple 
was  correct  and  should  stand." 

It  was  taught:  R.  Jehoshua  ben  Levi  said:  "  In  every  case, 
where  it  is  stated  that  a  disciple  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Ishmael 
before  R.  Aqiba,  that  disciple  is  R.  Meir,  who  was  a  disciple  of 
both  R.  Ishmael  and  R.  Aqiba." 

R.  A'ha  bar  Hanina  said :  It  is  known  to  Him,  Who  said 
one  word  and  the  world  was  created,  that  in  the  generation  of 
R.  Meir  there  was  not  one  who  was  his  equal;  but  why  do  not 
the  Halakhas  prevail  according  to  his  decisions  ?  Because  his  col- 
leagues could  never  arrive  at  the  conclusion  of  his  decrees.  If 
he  decided  that  a  thing  which  was  unclean  was  clean,  he  proved 
it  to  them  by  a  reason,  and  vice  versa.  We  have  learned  in  a 
Boraitha,  that  his  name  was  not  Meir  but  Neherai.  Why  was 
he  called  Meir  ?  Because  he  enlightened  *  the  eyes  of  his  col- 
leagues in  Halakhas.  Where  the  name  R.  Neherai  is  mentioned, 
it  refers  to  R.  Nehemiah  or  to  R.  Eliezer  ben  Arach.  Why  do 
they  call  them  Neherai  ?  Because  they  clarified  the  vision  of 
their  colleagues  in  the  Law. 

Rabbi  (according  to  some  it  was  Rabh)  said  :  Why  am  I  more 
sagacious  than  my  colleagues  ?  Because  I  once  saw  the  back  of 
R.  Meir,  and  if  I  could  look  upon  his  face  I  would  be  more  saga- 
cious still,  as  it  is  written  [Isaiah  xxx.  20] :  "  But  thy  eyes  shall 
see  thy  teachers." 

Said  R.  Abbahu  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan:  "  R.  Meir  had 
one  disciple,  and  his  name  was  Symmachos,  who  could  give 
forty-eight  reasons  for  the  uncleanness  of  unclean  things  and 
the  same  number  of  reasons  for  the  cleanness  of  clean  things." 

Said  R.  Abba  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  Three  years  the 
school  of  Shammai  and  the  school  of  Hillel  disputed.  One 
school  said  that  the  Halakhas  prevail  according  to  their  opinion, 


*  Meir  in  Hebrew  means,  He  makes  light.  Nehorah  in  Chaldaic  is  the  same  as 
our  (light)  in  Hebrew  ;  consequently  Neherai  in  Chaldaic  is  the  same  as  Meir  in 
Hebrew. 


28  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

and  the  other  claimed  that  their  decrees  should  stand.  Finally 
a  heavenly  voice  was  heard  to  the  effect  that  both  schools  dis- 
puted as  to  the  words  of  the  living  God,  but  the  Halakhas  pre- 
vail according  to  the  school  of  Hillel. 

Now  if  it  be  true  that  both  schools  dispute  as  to  the  words 
of  the  living  God,  why  should  the  school  of  Hillel  be  thus 
favored  ?  Because  the  members  of  the  school  of  Hillel  were 
modest  and  patient,  and  would  always  repeat  the  words  of  the 
school  of  Shammai.  Not  alone  this ;  but  they  also  always  gave 
the  school  of  Shammai  precedence  when  citing  their  teachings, 
as  we  have  learned  (in  Tract  Sukkah):  Said  Beth  Hillel  to  Beth 
Shammai:  "  Did  it  not  happen,  that  the  eldest  of  the  school  of 
Shammai  and  of  the  school  of  Hillel  went  together  to  visit  R. 
Johanan  the  son  of  Hachoranis,  etc.  (whence  we  see  that  the 
eldest  of  the  school  of  Shammai  were  given  precedence  over 
those  of  the  school  of  Hillel)."  Thence  thou  canst  learn,  that 
everyone  who  maketh  himself  humble  is  raised  up  by  the  Holy 
One,  blessed  be  He,  and  one  who  is  arrogant  is  humbled  by  the 
Holy  One,  blessed  be  He.  He  who  pursueth  greatness,  the 
greatness  escapeth  him,  and  he  who  avoideth  greatness  is  sought 
by  greatness.  He  who  forceth  time  {i.e.,  he  who  perforce 
would  become  rich  though  fortune  be  against  him),  time  oppress- 
eth  him,  while  he,  who  awaiteth  his  time,  is  assisted  by  time. 

The  Rabbis  taught :  Two  years  and  a  half  Beth  Shammai 
and  Beth  Hillel  disputed  amongst  themselves.  One  school 
declared,  it  were  better  that  man  had  not  been  created  as  he 
was,  while  the  other  declared  it  was  better  that  man  had  been 
created  as  he  was,  than  not  to  be  created  at  all.  Finally  they 
came  to  the  conclusion,  that  it  were  better  had  man  not  been 
created,  but  since  that  had  happened,  a  man  should  always 
examine  his  actions,  and  according  to  another  version,  a  man 
should  always  consider  the  deeds  he  is  about  to  perform. 

MISHNA:  The  cross-beam  in  question  must  be  wide  enough 
to  hold  a  half  of  a  brick,  three  spans  in  length  and  in  width. 
It  is,  however,  sufficient,  if  the  cross-beam  be  only  one  span 
wide,  so  as  to  hold  the  half  of  a  brick  lengthwise.  The  cross- 
beam must  be  wide  enough  to  hold  a  half  of  a  brick  and  sound 
enough  to  bear  it.  R.  Jehudah  saith:  It  must  be  wide  enough, 
even  if  it  be  not  sound  enough. 

If  the  cross-beam  be  of  straw  or  reed,  it  is  (legally)  regarded 
as  if  it  were  of  metal ;  if  it  be  crooked,  it  is  (legally)  regarded  as 
straight;  if  it  be  cylindrical,  it  is  (legally)  regarded  as  square. 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  29 

Anything  (measuring)  three  spans  in  circumference,  is  one  hand 
in  width. 

GEMARA:  Why  does  the  Mishna  say,  that  it  is  sufficient  if 
the  cross-beam  be  only  one  span  wide;  it  should  be  one  and  a 
half,  which  is  the  width  of  a  half  brick  ?  Because  if  the  cross- 
beam be  one  span  wide  the  other  half  span  which  it  should 
measure,  can  be  added  by  the  addition  of  a  little  loam  on  each 
side. 

Said  Rabba  bar  R.  Huna:  The  cross-beam  alone  must  be 
sound  enough  to  bear  a  half  brick,  but  the  supports  upon  which 
it  rests  need  not  be  sound  enough  to  bear  both  the  cross-beam 
and  the  half  brick  {i.e.,  if  the  cross-beam  was  put  up  on  sticks, 
the  sticks  need  not  be  sound  enough  to  support  both  the  cross- 
beam and  a  half  brick ;  for  the  cross-beam  being  the  sign  of  the 
entry,  it  is  only  essential  that  it  be  sound  enough  to  support  a 
half  brick,  although  in  reality  it  never  serves  the  purpose,  while 
the  sticks  are  not  part  of  the  sign  and  need  not  be  put  to  such  a 
test).  R.  Hisda,  however,  states,  that  the  cross-beam  must  be 
sound  enough  to  bear  half  a  brick,  and  its  supports  must  be  sound 
enough  to  bear  both  the  cross-beam  and  the  half  brick. 

R.  Shesheth  said :  If  one  put  up  a  cross-beam  over  an  entry, 
and  hung  a  mat  upon  it,  and  this  mat  was  distant  from  the 
ground  three  spans  or  more,  it  is  considered,  that  there  is  neither 
a  cross-beam  nor  a  partition  at  the  entry;  no  cross-beam,  because 
it  is  covered  up,  and  no  partition,  because  goats  can  go  through  it. 

The  Rabbis  taught :  If  a  cross-beam  was  put  up  over  an  entry, 
but  did  not  reach  the  opposite  wall,  or  if  two  cross-beams  were 
put  opposite  each  other,  but  did  not  meet,  should  the  distance 
between  the  cross-beam  and  the  wall  in  the  first  instance,  or 
between  the  two  cross-beams  in  the  second  instance,  be  three 
spans  or  over,  another  cross-beam  must  be  erected.  If  it  be  less 
than  three  spans  no  other  cross-beam  is  necessary.  R.  Simeon 
ben  Gamaliel,  however,  said,  "  If  the  distance  be  less  than  four 
spans,  another  cross-beam  is  not  necessary,  but  if  it  be  four 
spans  or  more,  another  cross-beam  must  be  erected." 

The  same  is  the  case  with  two  cross-beams  that  were  laid 
parallel,  neither  one  of  which  was  sound  enough  to  bear  a  half 
brick:  If  both  together  measured  one  span  in  width,  which  is 
sufficient  to  bear  a  half  brick,  another  cross-beam  is  not  neces- 
sary, but  if  the  two  together  measured  less,  another  cross-beam 
must  be  erected.  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel,  however,  said,  that 
if  the  two  cross-beams  were  sound   enough   for  the  length  of 


30  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

three  spans  to  bear  a  half  brick,  another  cross-beam  is  not  neces- 
sary; otherwise,  it  is  necessary. 

"  If  two  cross-beams  were  put  up  across  an  entry,  one  of 
which  was  higher  than  the  other,  they  are  regarded  as  being  on 
a  level,  provided  the  higher  beam  is  not  over  twenty  ells  above 
ground  and  the  lower  one  not  less  than  ten  spans  above 
ground."  Thus  said  R.  Jose  bar  R.  Jehudah.  Said  Abayi : 
"  R.  Jose  bar  R.  Jehudah  holds  with  his  father  in  one  instance 
only,  that  the  two  beams  are  regarded  as  being  on  a  level,  but  he 
differs  with  him  in  the  other,  namely :  that  the  higher  beam  must 
not  be  over  twenty  ells  above  the  ground;  for  R.  Jehudah 
declared  in  a  previous  Mishna,  that  even  if  it  were  over  twenty 
ells  in  height,  the  entry  is  valid." 

"  R.  Jehudah  saith  :  It  must  be  wide  enough,  even  if  it  be  not 
sound  enough.''  R.  Jehudah  taught  Hyya  bar  Rabh  in  the  pres- 
ence of  Rabh:  "It  is  sufficient,  if  the  cross-beam  be  wide 
enough  even  if  it  be  not  sound  enough."  Said  Rabh  to  him: 
"  Teach  him:  '  It  should  be  wide  and  strong  enough.'  "  Did 
not,  however,  R.  Ilai  say  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  "  It  is  sufficient, 
if  it  was  four  spans  wide,  even  if  it  be  not  sound  enough  "  ? 
Four  spans'  width  makes  a  difference. 

"  If  the  cross-beam  be  of  straw  or  reed,''  etc.  What  does  the 
Mishna  mean  to  teach  us  by  this  decree  ?  That  we  regard  cer- 
tain things  in  a  different  light  ?  This  has  already  been  taught 
us  previously.  In  the  former  teachings,  however,  one  certain 
kind  of  cross-beams  was  dealt  with,  namely,  of  wood ;  hence  we 
might  assume,  that  with  straw  or  reed  it  might  be  different. 
For  this  reason  we  are  given  to  understand  that  straw  or  reed 
may  be  regarded  as  metal. 

"  If  it  be  crooked,  it  is  regarded  as  straight."  Is  this  not 
self-evident  ?  The  Mishna  wishes  to  impart  to  us  the  teaching 
of  R.  Zera  as  follows : "  If  the  cross-beam  was  crooked  only  out- 
side of  the  entry  across  which  it  was  laid,  or  was  crooked  above 
twenty  ells  from  the  ground ;  or  again,  if  the  cross-beam  was  ten 
spans  above  the  ground  and  the  crooked  part  of  it  below  the 
ten  spans,  the  validity  of  the  entry  depends  upon  whether,  if 
the  crooked  part  of  the  cross-beam  were  removed,  the  straight 
part  left  would  be  distant  three  spans  from  the  wall.  If  the  dis- 
tance is  less  than  three  spans  the  entry  is  valid,  but  if  it  be 
over  three  spans  another  cross-beam  must  be  erected."  Is  this 
teaching  also  not  self-evident?  Nay;  it  is  necessary  that  we 
be  instructed  to  this  effect,  lest  we  presume  that  the  crooked 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  31 

part  on  the  outside  of  the  entry  carry  with  it  the  straight  part  on 
the  inside  and  thus  the  entry  is  invalidated;  hence  we  are  given 
to  understand,  that  such  is  not  the  case. 

"  If  it  be  cylindrical^  it  is  regarded  as  square. ' '  For  what 
purpose  was  it  necessary  to  add  this  ?  This  was  taught  us  on 
account  of  the  last  clause  in  the  Mishna,  which  states,  that  any- 
thing measuring  three  spans  in  circumference  is  one  hand  in 
width. 

MISHNA:  The  side-beams  in  question  must  be  ten  spans 
high,  be  their  breadth  and  thickness  whatever  they  may.  R. 
Jose  saith:  "  They  must  be  three  spans  wide." 

GEMARA :  Shall  we  assume  that  the  Mishna,  which  is  ren- 
dered anonymously,  is  in  accordance  with  the  opinion  of  R.  Eli- 
ezer,  who  holds  that  two  side-beams  are  necessary  ?  Nay ;  the 
side-beams  in  question  refer  to  side-beams  necessary  for  all  entries. 
If  this  be  the  case,  why  did  not  the  previous  Mishna  state  cross- 
beams instead  of  "  the  cross-beam  "  ?  The  above  Mishna  means 
to  state,  that  the  side-beams  concerning  which  there  is  a  differ- 
ence of  opinion  between  the  sages  and  R.  Eliezer  should  be  ten 
spans  high,  be  their  breadth  and  thickness  whatever  it  may. 
How  much  is  meant  by"  whatever  it  may"  ?  R.  Hyya  taught: 
Even  the  breadth  and  thickness  of  a  thread  of  a  Saraball."  * 

A  Boraitha  states:  "  If  one  made  a  side-beam  in  one  half  of 
an  entry,  he  has  only  a  half  of  an  entry."  Is  this  not  self-evi- 
dent ?  We  might  presume  that  because  one  must  not  use  the 
whole  entry,  hence  the  half  must  also  not  be  used,  and  we  are 
taught,  that  the  half  may  be  used. 

Rabha  said:  "If  one  made  a  side-beam  for  an  entry  and  it 
was  three  spans  distant  from  the  ground  or  three  spans  away 
from  the  wall,  it  does  not  count ;  and  even  according  to  R.  Sim- 
eon ben  Gamaliel  who  holds  an  object  to  be  '  lavud  '  (attached) 
although  four  spans  distant,  the  side-beam  is  of  no  use,  because 
R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel's  opinion  applies  to  an  object  which  is 
four  spans  distant  at  the  top  ;  but  at  the  bottom,  where  goats  can 
pass  through,  a  trifle  less  than  three  spans  is  the  maximum  dis- 
tance." 

"  R.  Jose  saith :  '  They  must  be  three  spans  wide.'  "  Said  R. 
Jehudah  the  son  of  R.  Samuel  bar  Shila  in  the  name  of  Rabh : 
"  The  Halakha  does  not  prevail  according  to  R.  Jose  either 
where  brine  is  concerned  t  or  where  a  side-beam  is  in  question." 

*  A  Saraball  was  an  article  of  apparel  similar  to  the  modern  Turkish  trousers. 
\  See  Tract  Sabbath,  Chapter  XIV.,  Mishna  2. 


32  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

Said  the  schoolmen  to  him:  "  Dost  thou  confidently  assert 
this?"  and  R.  Jehudah  answered:  "Nay."  Said  Rabha: 
"  By  the  Lord!  He  said  this  of  a  certainty,  and  we  accepted  it 
from  him."  Why  then  did  he  say  "  nay  "  ?  Because,  we  have 
learned  elsewhere,  that  wherever  R.  Jose  made  an  assertion,  he 
always  had  good  reason  for  it  (and  R.  Jehudah  did  not  wish  to 
dispute  with  R.  Jose). 

Said  Rabha  bar  R.  Hanato  Abayi:  "According  to  whom, 
however,  does  the  Halakha  prevail  concerning  the  side-beams  ?  " 
He  answered:  "Go  and  observe  the  custom  of  the  people" 
(which  is  as  much  as  saying,  that  the  breadth  and  thickness  of 
a  side-beam  can  be  whatever  it  may). 

It  was  taught:  A  side-beam,  that  was  standing  of  itself,  i.e., 
that  had  not  been  especially  erected,  is,  according  to  Abayi, 
valid,  and,  according  to  Rabha,  not  valid.  If  the  side-beam 
was  not  depended  upon  to  serve  the  purpose  on  the  preceding 
day  (before  Sabbath),  all  agree,  that  it  is  not  valid ;  but  if  it  was 
depended  upon  for  that  purpose,  Abayi  declares,  that  it  may 
be  utilized,  because  it  was  depended  upon  on  the  preceding  day, 
while  Rabha  holds  that  not  having  been  erected  for  that  purpose 
it  must  not  be  used.  As  for  a  partition,  standing  of  itself,  there 
is  no  difference  of  opinion,  and  all  agree  that  even  if  it  was  not 
intended  to  serve  as  a  partition,  it  may  be  used,  and  the  reason 
they  differ  in  the  case  of  a  side-beam  is  because  each  holds  to 
his  own  theory :  Abayi  regards  a  side-beam  as  a  partition,  and  a 
partition  may  be  utilized  under  anj'-  circumstances,  while  Rabha 
regards  a  side-beam  merely  as  a  sign,  and  as  such  it  must  be 
especially  prepared  for  the  purpose  before  it  may  be  used. 

An  objection  was  made:  "Come  and  hear:  If  stones  pro- 
truded from  the  fence  around  an  entry  and  they  were  less  than 
three  spans  apart,  another  side-beam  for  the  entry  is  not  neces- 
sary; but  if  they  were  three  spans  apart,  another  side-beam 
must  be  erected."  Here  the  case  is  also,  if  the  stones  were  so 
arranged  purposely  to  commence  with.  If  such  be  the  case,  is 
this  not  self-evident  ?  We  might  assume  that  the  stones  were 
arranged  in  that  manner  with  the  intention  of  adding  more 
to  them,  hence  we  are  given  to  understand  that  this  may  be  done. 

Another  objection  was  made:  Come  and  hear:  Rabh  was 
sitting  in  a  certain  entry  and  R.  Huna  was  sitting  before  him. 
Said  Rabh  to  his  servant:  "  Go  and  bring  me  a  pitcher  of 
water."  Before  his  servant  returned,  the  side-beam  at  the  entry 
fell,  and  Rabh  motioned  to  his  servant  to  remain  where  he  was. 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  33 

Said  R.  Huna  to  him:  "  Did  not  Master  hold,  that  the  tree 
standing  in  the  entry  may  be  regarded  as  a  side-beam  ?"  and 
Rabh  answered:  "  That  scholar  is  as  a  man  who  never  under- 
stood a  Halakha.  Did  we  depend  upon  that  tree  to  serve  as  a 
side-beam  yesterday  ?"  Now,  we  see,  that  according  to  Rabh, 
had  the  tree  been  depended  upon  on  the  preceding  day  to  serve 
as  a  side-beam,  it  would  have  been  valid.  Shall  we  assume,  that 
Abayi  and  Rabha  differ  concerning  a  side-beam  standing  of  itself 
even  if  it  was  not  depended  upon  on  the  preceding  day,  but  if 
depended  upon,  both  agree  that  it  may  be  used.  Nay;  we 
cannot  say  this ;  because  there  was  a  pillar  in  the  house  of  Bar 
Habo  concerning  which  Abayi  and  Rabha  differed  all  of  their 
lives.  (This  is  one  of  the  six  Halakhas  that  prevail  according  to 
Abayi,  for  generally  Rabha  is  given  precedence,  as  will  be  seen 
in  the  maxims  of  the  Talmud.) 

MISHNA:  Side-beams  may  be  made  out  of  anything,  even 
of  such  as  are  possessed  of  life.  The  latter,  however,  is  pro- 
hibited by  R.  Meir.  A  living  animal  tied  to  the  mouth  of  a 
grave  in  order  to  close  it  up  communicates  uncleanness  (even 
after  it  has  been  removed).  R.  Meir,  however,  declares  the 
animal  clean.  A  letter  of  divorce  for  a  woman  may  be  written 
on  a  living  animal,  but  R.  Jose,  the  Galilean,  pronounces  the 
letter  of  divorce  null  and  void  (not  legal).* 

If  a  caravan  encamp  in  a  valley  and  a  fence  be  made  around 
the  camp  out  of  the  cattle's  gear,  it  is  permitted  to  carry  things 
inside  of  the  fence  (on  Sabbath),  providing  the  fence  be  ten 
spans  high  and  the  open  spaces  therein  do  not  exceed  in  extent 
the  fence  proper.  Every  open  space  which  is  ten  spans  wide  is 
permitted  (to  be  used  as  an  entry),  for  it  is  considered  as  a  door, 
but  such  open  spaces  as  are  more  than  ten  spans  wide  must  not 
be  used, 

GEMARA:  It  was  taught:  If  the  open  spaces  of  the  fence 
equalled  in  extent  the  fence  proper,  R,  Papa  said:  "  The  fence 
is  valid."  R.  Huna  bar  R.  Jehoshua  however  said,  "It  is  not 
valid."  R.  Papa  held  it  to  be  valid  because  so  was  Moses  taught 
by  the  Merciful  One:  "The  larger  part  (of  a  partition)  must 
not  be  broken."  R.  Huna  bar  R.  Jehoshua  held  it  not  to  be 
valid  because  the  Merciful  One  taught  Moses  thus:  "  The  larger 
part  must  be/^«^(f<3rin." 

*  The  Gemara  pertaining  to  this  Mishna  will  be  found  in  Tract  Gittin,  as  it 
does  not  belong  to  or  treat  of  Erubin. 
VOL.  ni. — 3 


34  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

An  objection  was  made:  Our  Mishna  states  that  "  the  open 
spaces  must  not  exceed  in  extent  the  fence  proper  "  ;  but  if  the 
space  was  equal  in  extent  to  the  fence  it  should  be  valid.  This 
question  remains. 

Another  objection  was  made.  Come  and  hear:  "  If  a  cara- 
van encamped  in  a  valley  and  a  fence  was  made  with  camels, 
with  saddles,  with  the  baggage,  or  with  sticks,  or  with  bundles 
of  herbs,  things  may  be  carried  inside  the  fence,  providing  the 
space  between  each  camel  does  not  exceed  the  size  of  another 
camel  or  the  space  between  each  saddle  does  not  exceed  the  size 
of  another  saddle,  etc."  (Whence  we  see  that  if  the  space 
equals  in  extent  the  actual  fence,  the  fence  is  not  valid.)  Here 
the  case  is,  that  the  space  between  two  camels  should  be  large 
enough  for  a  camel  to  go  in  and  out,  but  not  the  exact  size  of  a 
camel. 

Another  objection  was  made:  "  Walls  of  which  the  greater 
part  consists  of  windows  and  doors  are  valid,  providing  the  wall 
proper  is  larger  in  extent  than  the  space."  If,  however,  the 
space  and  walls  are  equal,  the  walls  are  not  valid ;  this  would  be 
contradictory  to  R.  Papa's  opinion.  It  is  contradictory,  but 
the  Halakha  remains  according  to  R.  Papa.  How  can  it  be,  that 
there  should  be  a  contradiction  and  still  the  Halakha  should  pre- 
vail according  to  R.  Papa  ?  It  is  possible,  because  our  Mishna 
states,  that  the  open  space  should  not  exceed  the  fence  proper, 
hence  if  space  and  fence  are  equal,  the  fence  is  valid.  Conse- 
quently the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Papa. 

MISHNA :  A  fence  may  also  be  constructed  with  three  ropes, 
one  above  the  other;  providing  the  space  between  each  rope  be 
less  than  three  spans,  and  the  measure  (width  or  thickness)  of 
the  three  ropes  together  exceed  one  span,  so  that  the  entire 
(fence)  attain  (the  height  of)  ten  spans. 

A  fence  may  also  be  made  of  cane-laths,  providing  the  space 
between  the  canes  be  less  than  three  spans.  All  these  regula- 
tions apply  to  a  caravan  only.  So  saith  R.  Jehudah,  but  the 
sages  maintain,  that  the  caravan  (in  the  preceding  Mishna)  is  par- 
ticularly spoken  of  in  order  to  adduce  therefrom  that  which  is 
generally  done.  Any  partition  which  is  not  constructed  on  the 
principle  of  warp  and  shoot  is  not  a  (lawful)  partition.  Such  is 
the  dictum  of  R.  Jose  bar  Jehudah;  but  the  sages  hold,  that 
constructing  it  according  to  either  one  of  the  two  principles  is 
sufficient. 

GEMARA:  Said  R.    Hamnuna  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  "  It 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  35 

was  said,  that  the  solid  part  of  the  partition  must  exceed  the 
space  of  the  partition  when  constructed  on  the  principle  of  the 
shoot  in  order  to  make  it  valid ;  the  question,  however,  arises  by 
me  concerning  a  partition  constructed  on  the  principle  of  the 
warp.  What  is  the  law  ?"  Said  Abayi  to  him:  "  Come  and 
hear:  Our  Mishna  states,  that  the  width  or  thickness  of  the 
three  ropes  together  must  exceed  one  span  in  order  to  make  the 
entire  fence  ten  spans.  If  it  were  the  same  with  a  fence  con- 
structed on  the  principle  of  the  warp  as  with  one  constructed  on 
the  order  of  the  shoot,  why  does  the  Mishna  specify  one  which, 
including  all  the  ropes,  will  bring  the  total  up  to  ten  spans." 
How  can  such  an  assertion  be  made  ?  Where  should  the  space 
of  four  spans  be  placed  ?  Should  it  be  placed  at  the  bottom, 
i.e.,  between  the  ground  and  the  first  rope,  then  the  space  will  be 
large  enough  to  permit  of  goats  passing  through  and  the  fence 
will  be  of  no  use.  Should  it  be  placed  at  the  top,  i.e.,  be- 
tween the  second  and  third  rope,  then  the  space  between  the 
two  ropes,  together  with  the  space  above  the  third  rope,  will 
nullify  the  third  rope  entirely,  because  the  third  rope  will  have 
no  connection  whatever  with  the  two  lower.  Should  it  be 
placed  in  the  center,  i.e.,  between  the  first  and  second  rope, 
then  there  will  be  only  a  quasi-solid  partition  at  the  bottom  and 
the  same  at  the  top,  but  between  the  two  there  will  be  virtually 
an  empty  space  of  four  spans ;  should  it  be  assumed  that  such  a 
partition  can  also  be  accounted  lawful  where  the  solid  parts  are 
disconnected,  and  an  empty  space  exists  between  them  ?  (This 
question  is  not  decided.) 

"  Cane-laths."  How  can  R.  Jehudah  say,  that  all  these 
regulations  apply  to  a  caravan  only,  and  not  to  individuals  ? 
Have  we  not  learned  elsewhere,  that  R.  Jehudah  said:  "It  is 
not  allowed  for  an  individual  to  construct  a  partition  for  the 
Sabbath  around  a  piece  of  ground,  wherein  more  than  two  saahs 
of  grain  could  be  planted."  Hence  if  the  piece  of  ground  is 
only  so  large  that  two  saahs  of  grain  can  be  planted  therein,  he 
may  make  the  partition,  (How  then  can  he  say  in  the  Mishna, 
that  these  regulations  apply  only  to  a  caravan  ?)  This  can  be 
explained  in  the  same  manner  as  R.  Na'hman,  and  according  to 
others  R.  Bibhi  bar  Abayi,  explained  the  last  clause  of  our 
Mishna,  viz. :  "  Any  partition,  which  is  not  constructed  on  the 
principle  of  warp  and  shoot,  is  not  a  (lawful)  partition.  Such  is 
the  dictum  of  R.  Jose  bar  Jehudah."  The  question  was  made, 
whether  such  could  be  the  dictum    of  R.    Jose   bar  Jehudah. 


36  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

Did  we  not  learn  in  a  Boraitha,  that  "  no  difference  is  made  as 
far  as  a  fence  constructed  with  ropes  is  concerned  between  a 
caravan  and  an  individual  except  that  the  space  enclosed  by  the 
fence  must  not  for  one  man  or  even  for  two  exceed  that  in  which 
two  saahs  of  grain  could  be  planted.  For  three  men,  however, 
who  are  regarded  as  a  caravan,  a  space  in  which  six  saahs  of 
grain  can  be  planted  is  allowed.  So  said  R.  Jose  bar  Jehudah ; 
but  the  sages  maintain,  that  there  is  absolutely  no  difference 
made  between  a  caravan  and  an  individual,  and  that  they  may 
enclose  all  the  space  they  require,  providing  they  do  not  enclose 
superfluous  ground  to  the  extent  that  two  saahs  of  grain  could 
be  planted  in  such  an  empty  space."  How  can  R.  Jose  bar 
Jehudah  state  that  a  fence  must  be  constructed  according  to  the 
principles  of  warp  and  shoot ;  does  he  not  allow  a  fence  made 
with  ropes,  which  is  only  on  the  principle  of  the  warp  ?  And  R. 
Na'hman,  according  to  others  R.  Bibhi  bar  Abayi,  answered  and 
said,  that  R.  Jose  bar  Jehudah  requires  a  partition  to  be  con- 
structed on  both  principles  only  in  order  to  allow  even  an  indi- 
vidual all  the  space  necessary.  Now,  the  same  can  be  said  in 
answer  to  the  question  made  concerning  the  contradictory  state- 
ments of  R.  Jehudah. 

R.  Na'hman  related  in  the  name  of  our  master  Samuel: 
"  An  individual  or  even  two  men  are  allowed  to  enclose  as 
much  space  as  would  permit  of  the  planting  of  two  saahs  of 
grain  therein,  but  three  men,  who  are  regarded  as  a  caravan, 
may  have  all  the  space  necessary."  How  is  this?  The  first 
part  of  this  teaching  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Jose  bar  R. 
Jehudah,  and  the  last  according  to  the  sages  ?  Yea;  Abbahu  is 
also  of  the  same  opinion. 

R.  Gidel  in  the  name  of  Rabh  said:  "  There  are  instances 
when  three  men  must  not  occupy  space  so  large  that  five 
saahs  of  grain  can  be  planted  therein,  and  again,  there  are 
instances  when  they  may  occupy  space  in  which  even  seven 
saahs  of  grain  may  be  planted."  (The  instances  were  not  quoted, 
however.)  "  Is  it  possible  that  Rabh  should  have  said  this  ?" 
queried  the  sages,  and  R.  Gidel  answered:  "  I  swear  by  the  Law 
of  Moses  and  by  the  prophets,  and  by  the  Hagiographa,  that 
Rabh  said  this."  Said  R.  Ashi:  "  What  difficulty  is  there  in 
this  ?  Let  us  suppose,  that  the  three  men  needed  a  space  of  six 
saahs'  capacity,  and  enclosed  one  so  large,  that  seven  saahs  could 
be  accommodated.  (Then  only  a  space  is  empty  where  one  saah 
of  grain  could  be  planted.)      Hence  they  may  use  the  entire 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  37 

space.  But  supposing,  that  they  needed  only  a  space  large 
enough  to  accommodate  but  five  saahs  of  grain,  and  enclosed 
one  large  enough  for  seven,  (then  a  space  large  enough  for  the 
planting  of  two  saahs  is  vacant)  and  they  must  not  use  even  the 
space  large  enough  for  five  saahs."  Did  not  the  same  Boraitha 
teach  us,  however,  that  a  space  large  enough  for  the  planting  of 
two  saahs  must  not  be  vacant,  and  thereby  meant  to  state,  that 
each  man  should  be  allowed  a  space  large  enough  for  two  saahs, 
and  then  if  a  space  for  two  saahs  is  vacant  the  entire  space  must 
not  be  used ;  hence,  when  there  are  three  men,  they  should  not 
be  allowed  the  use  of  a  space  large  enough  for  the  planting  of 
eight  saahs,  but  one  accommodating  only  seven  should  be 
allowed  them  ?  Nay ;  the  Boraitha  meant  to  state,  that  the 
space  allowed  to  the  men  should  be  only  as  much  as  they  need 
for  the  accommodation  of  all  their  belongings. 

'  *  But  the  sages  hold  that  constructing  it  according  to  either  one 
of  the  two  principles  is  sufficiefit.''  Is  this  not  a  repetition  of 
what  the  first  Tana  stated  in  opposition  to  R.  Jose's  bar  R. 
Jehudah  dictum  ?  There  is  a  difference  of  opinion  concerning 
an  individual  between  the  first  and  second  sages  as  regards  an 
inhabited  place  (and  not  the  desert).  According  to  the  first 
sages  who  maintain  that  the  regulations  apply  not  only  to  a  car- 
avan but  to  all  individuals  in  general,  this  refers  to  individuals 
who  are  on  the  road,  but  when  in  inhabited  places  the  regula- 
tions do  not  apply  to  them,  while  the  second  sages  who  oppose 
R.  Jose  bar  Jehudah  hold,  that  it  makes  absolutely  no  difference, 
be  it  caravan  or  an  individual,  in  an  inhabited  place  or  in  the 
desert. 

MISHNA:  Four  privileges  have  been  granted  to  warriors  in 
camp:  They  may  bring  wood  from  any  place  (without  respecting 
the  rights  of  ownership) ;  they  need  not  wash  their  hands  before 
meals ;  they  may  eat  of  Damai  (grain  of  which  it  is  not  certain 
that  the  legal  dues,  tithes,  etc.,  have  been  set  aside);  and  they 
are  exempt  from  the  obligation  of  making  an  Erub. 

GEMARA:  The  rabbis  taught:  If  an  ordinary  war*  is  in 
progress,  it  is  permitted  for  the  warriors  to  appropriate  dry 
wood  without  respecting  the  rights  of  ownership.  R.  Jehudah 
ben  Thima  said:  "  They  may  also  encamp  wherever  they  choose, 


*  By  an  ordinary  war  is  meant  a  war  carried  on  by  the  people  without  the  direct 
commandment  of  God  as  distinct  from  the  wars  carried  on  by  Joshua  by  divine  com- 
mandment. 


38  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

and  wherever  one  is  killed  there  may  he  also  be  buried,  although 
the  ground  does  not  belong  to  him." 

"  They  are  permitted  to  appropriate  dry  wood.''  This  has 
also  been  ordained  even  by  Joshua!  Joshua  ordained,  that 
wood  may  be  cut  and  appropriated  by  the  warriors,  but  later 
even  cut  and  dry  wood  was  allowed  to  be  taken. 

Where  one  is  killed,  there  may  he  also  be  buried. ' '  Is  this  not 
self-evident  ?  The  killed  were  strangers  and  had  no  one  to  secure 
a  burying  ground  for  them.  The  law  also  states,  that  whenever 
a  man  dies  without  leaving  suf!icient  means  for  the  acquirement 
of  a  place  of  burial,  he  may  be  interred  in  the  place  where  he 
dies.  This  case  refers  to  warriors  who  even  left  sufficient  means 
to  secure  a  burying  ground. 

They  need  not  wash  their  hands  before  meals.''  Said 
Abayi :  "  This  refers  only  to  washing  the  hands  before  meals,  but 
after  meals  it  is  even  then  necessary,  because  R.  Hyya  bar 
Ashi  said :  *  Why  did  the  sages  ordain  the  washing  of  hands 
after  meals  ?  Because  among  the  salt  used  at  the  table  there 
may  be  salt  of  Sodom,  and  when  a  hand  which  had  touched  salt 
of  Sodom  comes  in  contact  with  the  eyes  it  blinds  them.'  There 
is  only  one  grain  of  salt  of  Sodom  in  a  whole  kur  of  ordinary 
salt, ' '  said  Abayi. 

Said  R.  A'ha  the  son  of  Rabba  to  R.  Ashi:  "  How  is  the 
law,  concerning  one  who  had  measured  salt  ? "  and  he  answered: 
"  So  much  the  more  must  he  wash  his  hands." 

They  may  eat  of  Damai."  As  we  have  learned  in  another 
Mishna:  "  Beth  Hillel  said,  that  a  poor  man  and  a  warrior  may 
partake  of  Damai." 

They  are  exempt  from  the  obligation  of  making  an  Erub. '  * 
The  disciples  of  R.  Janai  said :  They  are  exempt  from  the  obli- 
gation of  making  an  Erub  as  far  as  courts  and  entries  are  con- 
cerned, but  not  where  the  limit  of  the  distance  of  two  thousand 
ells  (techoom)  is  concerned,  because  R.  Hyya  taught:  "One 
who  is  guilty  of  transgressing  the  law  of  techoom  should  be 
punished  with  stripes  as  for  any  other  biblical  negative  com- 
mandment." R.  Jonathan  opposed  this:  "  Can  a  man  be  pun- 
ished with  stripes  for  a  negative  commandment  which  com- 
mences with  the  word  Al  ?  "  *    This  was  again  opposed  by  R. 


*  Al  and  Lo  both  mean  "  not "  in  Hebrew,  and  R.  Jonathan  means  to  say,  that 
only  such  negative  commandments  as  commence  with  "  Lo  "  involve,  if  transgressed, 
the  punishment  of  stripes,  but  not  such  as  commence  with  "  Al." 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  39 

A'ha  bar  Jacob:  "  According  to  thy  theory  then  the  man  who 
transgresses  the  commandment  in  [Leviticus  xix.  31],  '  Turn 
not  unto  them  that  have  familiar  spirits  and  unto  wizards ' 
(which  also  commences  with  '  Al '),  should  also  not  be  punished 
with  stripes  ?"  R.  Jonathan  puts  his  question  in  the  following 
sense :  The  violation  of  a  commandment  which  involves  the 
death  penalty  when  committed  intentionally  cannot  be  punished 
Avith  stripes  at  all,  and  the  violation  of  the  Sabbath  is  certainly 
a  capital  ofTence  (how  then  can  R.  Hyyahold  that  it  can  be  pun- 
ished with  stripes  ?).  Answered  R.  Ashi :  It  is  written  [Exod. 
xvi.  29],  "  Let  no  man  go  out  of  his  place  on  the  seventh  day," 
but  it  does  not  state,  that  a  man  should  not  carry  things  on  that 
day.  (Consequently  the  transgressing  of  the  law  of  techoom  is 
not  a  capital  oflence,  and  is  on  a  par  with  all  other  negative 
commandments.) 


CHAPTER   II. 

REGULATIONS   CONCERNING    THE    USE    OF  A    WELL    AND    A    GARDEN    ON 

THE    SABBATH. 

MISHNA:  Enclosures  (partitions)  must  be  made  around 
wells.  They  must  be  made  of  four  boards,  placed  at  an  angle 
(of  forty-five  degrees)  at  the  corners  of  the  well,  so  that  the 
four  boards  appear  like  eight  (see  illustration).  Such  is  the  dic- 
tum of  R.  Jehudah;  but  R.  Meir  saith:  Eight  boards  must  be 
used  which  will  appear  as  twelve,  namely,  four  boards  placed  at 
an  angle  at  the  corners  which  appear  as  eight,  and  four  boards 

placed    between    the    corner    boards.      The 

\y  '"*"  v,j  height  of  the  boards  must  be  ten  spans,  the 
I .  •-^  '    width  six  spans,  and  the  thickness  whatever 

"•  '^  '  *.  it  may  be.  The  space  between  the  two 
/I  corner  boards  on  the  same  side  must  not  be 
wider  than  to  permit  of  the  passing  through 
of  two  teams  of  cattle,  each  team  of  three  animals  abreast.  Such 
is  the  decree  of  R.  Meir.  R.  Jehudah,  however,  maintains,  that 
each  team  may  be  of  four  animals  abreast,  meaning  of  cattle 
yoked  together  in  a  team,  but  not  walking  unyoked,  so  that  one 
enters  as  the  other  passes  out. 

It  is  permitted  to  bring  the  enclosure  quite  close  to  the  well, 
providing,  that  the  head  and  greater  part  of  the  body  of  the 
animal  be  within  the  enclosure  while  it  drinks.  It  may  also  be 
placed  at  some  distance  from  the  well,  providing  that  more 
boards  be  used. 

R.  Jehudah  said:  The  maximum  distance  from  the  well  at 
which  the  enclosure  may  be  placed  is  a  space  large  enough  for 
the  planting  of  two  saah  of  grain,  but  the  sages  said  to  him : 
"  This  size  (sufficient  for  the  planting  of  two  saah  of  grain)  is 
only  applicable  to  a  garden  or  a  wood-shed,  but  as  regards  a 
cattle-pen,  a  fold,  a  bleaching-ground  (behind  the  house),  or  a 
courtyard  (in  front  of  the  house),  even  though  it  be  large 
enough  to  permit  of  the  planting  of  five  kur  of  grain  therein, 
yea,  or  even  of  ten  kur,  it  is  lawful  (to  carry  things  therein  on 

40 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  41 

the  Sabbath).'/  It  is  also  permitted  to  place  the  enclosure  at 
any  convenient  distance  from  the  well,  provided  more  boards 
be  used. 

GEMARA:  Shall  we  assume,  that  our  Mishna  is  not  accord- 
ing to  Hananiah,  as  we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha,  viz. :  "  Boards 
may  be  put  up  at  a  well  and  ropes  for  a  fence  of  a  caravan,  but 
Hananiah  said,  that  ropes  for  a  well  are  permitted  but  not 
boards  "  ?  Nay ;  we  may  say,  that  our  Mishna  agrees  with  Hana- 
niah ;  but  a  well  containing  rain-water  is  one  thing  and  one  con- 
taining spring-water  is  another.  Our  Mishna  treats  of  spring- 
water  and  Hananiah  refers  to  rain-water.  To  make  an  enclosure 
around  a  well  of  rain-water  is  permitted  only  during  the  time 
of  the  pilgrimage  to  Jerusalem. 

* '  R.  Jehudah  said :  The  maximum  distance, ' '  etc.  We  have 
learned  in  a  Mishna  (Damai  i.  i):  R.  Jehudah  also  said:  "All 
bad  (inferior)  dates  are  not  suspected  of  being  Damai,  with  the 
exception  of  the  fruit  known  as  double-fruit  {di-Gonopa)."  Said 
Ula :  The  tree  bearing  this  fruit  bears  twice  a  year  (and  the  igno- 
rant people  might  object  to  acquit  the  legal  dues  thereof). 

R.  Jeremiah  ben  Elazar  said:  Adam  the  first  (man)  had  a 
dual  face,  as  it  is  written  [Psalms  cxxxix.  5]:  "Behind  and 
before  hast  thou  hedged  me  in,  and  thou  placest  upon  me  thy 
hand." 

It  is  written  [Genesis  ii.  22]:  "  And  the  Lord  God  formed 
the  rib  which  he  had  taken  from  the  man  into  a  woman."  Rabh 
and  Samuel  both  comment  upon  this.  One  declares,  that  the 
Lord  simply  divided  Adam,  who  had  a  dual  head,  while  the 
other  holds,  that  Adam  had  a  tail  and  the  Lord  made  the  woman 
out  of  that  tail.  So  according  to  the  one  the  passage  "  Behind 
and  before,"  etc.,  is  correct,  but,  according  to  the  other,  how 
should  it  be  explained  ?  It  may  be  explained  as  R.  Ami  said : 
"  By  '  behind  '  is  meant  that  last  of  (behind)  all  was  man  cre- 
ated, and  by 'before,'  that  before  (first  of)  all  others  did  he 
receive  his  punishment."  The  first  part  of  this  explanation  is 
correct  because  man  was  created  last  of  all  on  the  eve  of 
Sabbath,  but  the  second  part  is  not  true ;  for  was  not  the  ser- 
pent cursed  before  Eve,  and  Eve  before  Adam  ?  The  punish- 
ment refers  to  the  flood,  concerning  which  it  is  written  [Genesis 
vii.  23]:  "  And  it  swept  off  every  living  substance  which  was 
upon  the  face  of  the  ground,  both  man,  and  cattle,  etc.,"  and 
man  is  mentioned  before  all  else.  Further,  it  is  written,  that 
the  Lord  brought  Eve  to  Adam,  i.e.,  that  the  Lord  was  sponsor 


42  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

to  them.  Whence  we  learn,  that  a  man,  be  he  ever  so  great, 
should  not  refuse  to  be  sponsor  to  a  lesser  man. 

R.  Meir  said :  Adam  the  First  was  very  pious,  for  when  he 
saw,  that  on  his  account  the  human  race  was  made  mortal,  he 
fasted  one  hundred  and  thirty  years,  separated  himself  from 
woman,  and  wore  leaves  of  a  fig-tree  on  his  body  for  the  same 
length  of  time. 

R.  Jeremiah  ben  Elazar  said:  If  a  man  is  to  be  praised  to  his 
face  only  a  small  part  of  the  praise  due  him  should  be  given 
him,  but  his  entire  share  may  be  bestowed  upon  him  in  his 
absence,  as  it  is  written  [Genesis  vii.  i] :  "  For  thee  I  have  seen 
righteous  before  me  in  this  generation,"  and  [ibid.  vi.  9] :  "  Noah 
was  a  just,  perfect  man  in  his  generations."  Thus  we  see  that 
to  his  face  the  Lord  merely  called  Noah  righteous,  whereas 
in  his  absence  the  verse  called  him  "  a  just,  perfect  man." 

The  same  said  again :  A  house,  where  the  words  of  the  Law 
are  also  heard  at  night,  shall  never  more  be  destroyed,  as  it  is 
written  [Job  xxxv.  lo] :  "  But  man  saith  not,  '  Where  is  God 
my  maker,  who  bestoweth  joyful  songs  even  in  the  night,'  "  and 
the  verse  is  explained  thus:  If  man  would  have  sung  joyful 
songs  even  in  the  night,  he  would  not  have  been  compelled  to 
ask:  "  Where  is  God  my  maker  ?  " 

The  same  said  again :  Since  the  destruction  of  the  temple  it 
is  sufficient  for  man  to  use  only  two  letters  in  place  of  the  four 
forming  the  name  of  the  Lord  {i.e.,  Yod  and  Heh  instead  of 
Yod,  Heh,  Vav,  and  Heh),  as  it  is  written  [Psalms  cl.  6] :  "  Let 
everything  that  hath  breath  praise  Jah  (the  Lord).     Hallelujah." 

He  said  again :  When  Babylon  was  cursed,  it  was  a  curse  to 
the  neighbors  also;  but  when  Samaria  was  cursed,  the  neighbors 
rejoiced.  Speaking  of  Babylon,  it  is  written  [Isaiah  xiv.  23] : 
"  I  will  also  make  it  a  possession  for  the  hedgehog  and  pools  of 
water,"  and  speaking  of  Samaria,  it  is  written  [Micah  i.  6]: 
"  Therefore  will  I  change  Samaria  into  stone-heaps  on  the  field, 
into  vineyard  plantations." 

He  said  again :  Come  and  see  how  the  custom  of  the  Holy 
One,  blessed  be  He,  differs  from  that  of  mortal  man :  When  a 
man  is  about  to  be  executed,  a  gag  is  placed  in  his  mouth  in 
order  that  he  may  not  curse  the  king ;  but  if  a  man  transgresses 
against  the  Lord,  the  man  is  silenced,  as  it  is  written  [Psalms 
Ixv.  2]:  "  For  thee  praise  is  waiting,  O  God,  in  Zion."  Not 
only  is  the  man  who  transgresses  against  the  Lord  silent  (wait- 
ing) but  he  also  praises  him,  and  the  punishment  given  man  for 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  43 

the  transgression  is  regarded  by  him  as  a  sacrifice  unto  the  Lord, 
as  it  is  written,  "  and  unto  thee  shall  vows  be  paid  "  [ibid.]. 

This  is  similar  to  the  saying  of  R.  Jehoshua  ben  Levi  as  fol- 
lows: It  is  written  [Psalms  Ixxxiv.  7] :  "  Passing  through  tbe 
valley  of  weeping,  they  will  change  it  into  a  spring ;  also  the 
early  rain  covereth  it  with  blessings."  "  Passing  "  refers  to  the 
man  who  has  trespassed  against  the  will  of  the  Holy  One,  blessed 
be  He,  "the  valley"  refers  to  hell  which  is  made  deeper, 
"  weeping"  signifies  that  they  are  weeping  and  shedding  tears 
equal  to  the  spring  of  Shitin,  and  "  the  early  rain  covereth  it 
with  blessings  "  denotes  that  the  trespassers  themselves  bless  the 
Lord,  saying:  "  Creator  of  the  Universe,  Thou  hast  judged 
rightly,  finding  the  righteous  just  and  the  wicked  full  of  iniquity, 
(and  blessed  be  Thou)  that  Thou  hast  ordained  hell  for  the 
wicked  and  paradise  for  the  righteous." 

Is  this  statement  not  contradictory  to  the  saying  of  Resh 
Lakish  to  the  effect  that  the  fires  of  hell  cannot  gain  access  to 
the  bodies  of  the  sinners  in  Israel,  which  is  derived  from  the  a 
fortiori  conclusion  that  inasmuch  as  the  gold  which  was  only 
of  the  thickness  of  one  golden  dinar  covering  the  ark  of  the 
covenant,  was  not  touched  by  the  perpetual  light,  although  but 
one  commandment  was  being  fulfilled,  so  much  more  will  the 
sinner  in  Israel  who  has  fufilled  as  many  commandments  as  a 
pomegranate  has  seeds  escape  the  fires  of  hell  (as  it  is  written 
[Solomon's  Song  vi.  7] :  "  Like  the  half  of  the  pomegranate  is 
the  upper  part  of  thy  cheek,"  etc.  And  Resh  Lakish  said:  Do 
not  read  "  the  upper  part  of  thy  cheek,"  but  read  "  thy  vain, 
wicked  men  "  *).  Nay;  even  Resh  Lakish  admits  that  the  sin- 
ners descend  into  hell;  but  our  father  Abraham,  seeing  that 
they  are  circumcised,  rescues  them. 

R.  Jeremiah  ben  Elazar  said  again:  "  Hell  has  three  gates : 
One  in  the  desert,  one  in  the  sea,  and  one  in  Jerusalem,"  "  In 
the  desert,"  as  it  is  written  [Numbers  xvi.  33]  :  "  And  they  went 
down,  they,  and  all  they  that  appertained  to  them,  alive  into 
the  pit  (Sheol-Gehenna)."  "  In  the  sea,"  as  it  is  written  [Jonah 
ii.  3] :  "  Out  of  the  depth  of  the  grave  have  I  cried,  and  thou 
hast  heard  my  voice."  "And  one  in  Jerusalem,"  as  it  is  written 
[Isaiah  xxxi.  9] :  "  Who  hath  a  fire  in  Zion,  and  a  furnace  in 
Jerusalem,"     And  the  disciples  of  R.  Ishmael  taught,  that  by  a 


*  "  The  upper  part  of  thy  cheek  "  is  expressed  in  Hebrew  by  "  Rakothech,"  and 
Resh  Lakish  reads  instead  "  Rikothech,"  which  signifies  "  thy  vain  or  wicked  men." 


44  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

fire  in  Zion  is  meant  Gehenna,  and  by  the  furnace  in  Jerusalem 
is  meant  the  gate  of  Gehenna. 

R.  Jehoshua  ben  Levi  said,  that  hell  has  seven  names,  viz.  : 
Sheol,  Abadon,  Baar  Shachath,  Bor  Sheon,  Tit  Hayavon,  Tzal- 
moveth,  and  Eretz  Hathachthith.* 

Where  is  the  gate  of  Paradise?  Said  Resh  Lakish :  "If 
the  gate  of  Paradise  is  in  the  land  of  Israel  it  is  in  the  city  of 
Beth  Sheon.  If  it  is  in  Araby  it  is  in  the  city  of  Beth  Gerem, 
and  if  it  is  between  the  rivers  it  is  in  Damaskanun." 

In  Babylon,  Abayi  would  praise  the  fruit  growing  on  the 
other  side  of  the  Euphrates  and  Rabha  would  praise  the  fruit 
of  the  city  of  Harphania  (so  it  may  be  that  the  gate  of  Para- 
dise is  situated  in  one  of  these  two  places). 

' '  Cattle  yoked  together  in  a  team,  but  not  walking  unyoked. 
Why  does  the  Mishna  say"  yoked  together  but  not  unyoked  "  ? 
It  is  self-evident,  that  if  they  must  be  yoked  they  cannot  be  un- 
yoked ?  We  might  assume,  that  if  it  said  only  "yoked  to- 
gether" we  might  think  that  apparently  yoked  would  be  suffi- 
cient, so  it  is  repeated  in  order  to  make  it  more  emphatic. 

"  So  that  one  enters  as  the  other  passes  out.''  That  means, 
that  one  team  can  enter  while  another  passes  out.  This  was 
taught  in  a  Boraitha. 

The  Rabbis  taught :  How  much  (in  size)  must  the  larger  part 
of  a  cow  be  reckoned  ?  Two  ells.  What  is  the  breadth  of  a 
cow  ?  One  and  two-thirds  of  an  ell.  Thus  six  cows  abreast 
will  measure  about  ten  ells.  So  said  R.  Meir,  but  R.  Jehudah 
said:  "About  thirteen  or  fourteen  ells."  Why  does  R.  Meir 
say  "  about  ten  ells  "  ?  It  is  exactly  ten  ells  ?  Because  he  must 
teach  later  "  about  thirteen  ells,"  so  he  also  approximates  it  in 
this  case,  and  says  "  about  ten  ells."  Now,  why  does  R.  Jehu- 
dah say  "  about  thirteen  ells"?  According  to  his  opinion  it 
should  be  more  ?  Because  he  wishes  to  say  "  about  fourteen  " 
he  generalizes  it  and  says  "  about  thirteen  or  fourteen."  How 
can  he  say  about  fourteen  ?  It  is  less  than  fourteen  ?  Said  R. 
Papa:  "  He  means  to  say  more  than  thirteen  and  less  than  four- 
teen "  {i.e.,  the  measure  of  two  teams  of  four  cows  each  abreast 
is  more  than  thirteen  and  less  than  fourteen  ells). 

R.  Papa  said :  For  a  well  that  measures  not  more  than  eight 


*  These  names  can  be  found  in  the  following  passages  :  Jonah  ii.  3  ;  Psalms 
Ixxxviii.  12  ;  ibid.  xvi.  10 ;  ibid.  xl.  2  ;  ibid.  cvii.  10  ;  the  last  name  is  traditional 
and  not  mentioned  in  the  Scriptures. 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  45 

ells  in  circumference,  all  agree,  that  no  centre-boards  are  neces- 
sary. For  a  well  of  twelve  ells  in  circumference,  all  agree  that 
they  are  necessary.  Where  they  differ  is  concerning  a  well  that 
is  between  eight  and  twelve  ells  in  circumference.  According  to 
R.  Meir  centre-boards  are  necessary,  and  according  to  R.  Jehu- 
dah  they  are  not.  What  would  R.  Papa  inform  us  ?  We  have 
learned  this  in  our  Mishna;  for  R.  Jehudah  says  two  teams  of 
four  animals  each  and  R.  Meir  two  teams  of  three  each,  so  the 
difference  is  the  size  of  two  animals  but  not  the  size  of  one.  R, 
Papa  did  not  know  of  the  Boraitha  stating  the  size  of  a  cow,  so 
he  came  to  teach  us  the  measure. 

Abayi  asked  Rabba :  ' '  What  is  the  law  if  a  man  make  the 
enclosures  wider;  must,  according  to  R.  Meir,  centre-boards  be 
put  up  nevertheless  or  not  ?"  and  Rabba  answered:  "  This  was 
taught  us  in  the  Mishna,  '  providing  that  more  boards  be  used.' 
Can  we  not  assume  that  centre-boards  are  necessary?"  Re- 
joined Abayi:  "  Nay!  it  may  mean  that  the  corner-boards  should 
be  increased  in  length."  It  seems  to  us  that  the  opinion  of  the 
latter  is  the  intention  of  the  Mishna.  This  decides  the  argu- 
ment. 

Abayi  asked  Rabba  again:  "  What  is  the  law  according  to 
R.  Jehudah  if  the  space  between  the  corner-boards  on  the  same 
side  exceeded  thirteen  and  one-third  ells  ?  What  should  a  man 
do  then  ?  Should  he  increase  the  length  of  the  corner-boards 
or  put  up  centre-boards?"  Answered  Rabba:  This  was  taught 
us  in  a  Boraitha  as  follows:  What  is  meant  by  "  they  are  near 
each  other"  ?  If  they  are  only  apart  a  space  as  large  as  the 
greater  part  of  a  cow.  What  would  be  called  "  they  are  far 
away  from  each  other  "  ?  If  the  space  between  them  is  so  large 
that  a  kur  or  even  two  kurs  of  grain  can  be  planted  therein.  R. 
Jehudah,  however,  said,  that  only  a  space  large  enough  to  per- 
mit of  the  planting  of  two  saahs  of  grain  is  permitted,  but  no 
more.  The  sages  said  to  R.  Jehudah:  "  Dost  thou  not  admit 
that  a  cattle-pen  or  a  fold,  a  bleaching-ground  or  a  courtyard, 
even  though  they  be  large  enough  to  accommodate  five  or  even 
ten  kurs  of  grain,  are  permitted  ?  "  R.  Jehudah  answered  :  ' '  Here 
the  case  is  different ;  for  here  we  have  partitions,  while  in  the 
case  of  a  well  we  have  only  enclosures."  Now,  if  the  length  of 
the  corner-boards  should  be  increased,  then  R.  Jehudah  would 
say  that  the  boards  around  a  well  also  constitute  a  partition. 
Rejoined  Abayi :  Around  a  cattle-pen  or  a  fold,  a  bleaching- 
ground  or  a  courtyard,  according  to  R.  Jehudah,  the  law  of  a 


46  THE  BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

partition  is  applied  and  that  must  not  contain  a  space  larger 
than  ten  ells,  and  it  matters  not  whether  that  space  have  a  capac- 
ity large  enough  to  permit  of  planting  one  or  five  kur  of  grain; 
but  the  space  between  the  corner-boards  was  fixed  at  thirteen 
and  one-third  ells  because  the  law  of  enclosures  is  applied,  hence 
it  should  not  have  a  capacity  larger  than  would  permit  of  the 
planting  of  two  saahs  of  grain,  even  if  the  length  of  the  boards 
be  increased. 

Abayi  asked  Rabba  again :  "Can  a  sandheap  four  ells  wide 
and  sloping  up  to  a  height  of  ten  spans  take  the  place  of  the 
corner-boards  at  a  well  ?"  Answered  Rabba:  "  This  is  taught 
in  a  Tosephta:  '  R.  Simeon  ben  Elazar  said:  If  there  was  a 
square  rock  standing  at  the  corner  of  a  well,  which  if  divided 
would  form  an  angle,  each  side  of  which  would  be  one  ell,  it 
may  take  the  place  of  corner-boards,  otherwise  it  cannot.'  "  R. 
Ishmael  the  son  of  R.  Johanan  ben  Berokah  said :  "  Even  if  the 
rock  was  round  and  when  made  square  and  divided  would  form 
an  angle  each  side  of  which  would  be  one  ell,  it  may  also  take 
the  place  of  the  corner-boards."  On  what  point  do  they  differ  ? 
According  to  the  former  Tana  there  is  only  one  supposition 
allowed  regarding  the  rock,  whereas  according  to  the  latter,  even 
two  suppositions  concerning  the  rock  are  permitted. 

He  asked  him  again:  "  May  a  bush  take  the  place  of  cor- 
ner-boards ?  "  and  Rabba  answered  :  "  We  have  learned  this  in  a 
Boraitha:  If  there  was  a  fence,  a  tree,  or  a  number  of  cane-laths 
on  the  spot,  they  may  serve  as  corner-boards."  What  is  meant 
by  cane-laths  ?  In  all  probability  a  bush.  Nay ;  we  might 
assume,  that  they  were  really  cane-laths  and  less  than  three  spans 
apart  ?  Then,  by  application  of  the  law  of  "  lavud  "  it  would 
be  a  fence,  and  the  Boraitha  mentions  a  fence  in  the  first  place; 
why  should  the  repetition  be  made  ?  If  it  is  a  bush,  it  is  the 
same  as  a  tree;  why  the  repetition  in  this  instance  ?  It  might 
be  said,  then,  that  two  kinds  of  a  tree  are  mentioned;  why 
should  not  two  kinds  of  fences  be  mentioned  ?  ' 

Abayi  asked  him  again :  May  things  be  carried  from  a  court- 
yard opening  into  the  enclosure  around  a  well  and  vice  versa? 
Rabba  answered:  "  They  may."  "  How  is  it  if  there  were  two 
adjoining  courtyards  opening  into  the  enclosure  ?  "  "  Then  one 
must  not  carry  from  the  courtyards  into  the  enclosure."  Said 
R.  Huna:  "If  there  were  two  courtyards,  even  an  Erub  will 
not  make  it  lawful  to  carry  things  from  the  courtyards  into  the 
enclosure  as  a  precaution,  lest  it  be  said,  that  the  law  of  Erub 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  47 

applies  also  to  enclosures."  Rabha,  however,  said :  "  If  an  Erub 
was  made,  it  is  lawful."  Said  Abayi :  "  I  know  of  a  Boraitha, 
which  supporteth  thy  opinion,  viz,  :  If  a  courtyard  opened  into 
an  enclosure  around  a  well,  things  may  be  carried  to  and  from 
the  courtyard  and  the  enclosure,  but  if  two  courtyards  opened 
into  the  enclosure,  this  is  not  allowed,  provided  an  Erub  was  not 
made.     If  an  Erub  was  made,  it  is  lawful." 

Abayi  asked  Rabba  again :  "  What  is  the  law  concerning  the 
enclosures  of  a  well  which  had  gone  dry  on  Sabbath  ?"  and  he 
answered:  "  Were  not  the  enclosures  made  merely  for  the  sake 
of  the  water  ?  If  the  water  gave  out,  the  enclosures  are  void." 
Now  asked  Rabin  of  Abayi:  "  What  is  the  law  if  the  well  went 
dry  on  the  Sabbath  and  was  filled  again  on  the  same  day?" 
Answered  Abayi :  Concerning  the  law  of  a  well  that  had  gone 
dry  I  asked  Master  and  he  told  me  that  the  enclosures  were 
void ;  hence  if  the  well  filled  up  again  on  the  same  day  the 
enclosure  must  be  regarded  as  one  constructed  on  the  Sabbath 
and  it  was  decided  that  [in  Tract  Sabbath,  page  2CXD]  a  partition 
constructed  on  the  Sabbath  is  valid. 

R.  Elazar  said:  "If  one  throw  something  (from  public 
ground)  within  the  enclosures  around  a  well,  he  is  culpable." 
Is  this  not  self-evident  ?  If  the  enclosures  were  not  regarded  as 
a  partition,  how  would  it  be  allowed  to  draw  water  from  the  well 
on  Sabbath  ?  R.  Elazar  means  to  tell  us,  that  if  such  enclos- 
ures were  erected  in  pubhc  ground  without  having  a  well,  it  also 
makes  one  culpable  to  throw  a  thing  within  the  enclosures.  Is 
this  not  self-evident  ?  If  such  enclosures  were  not  regarded  as 
a  partition  elsewhere,  how  could  they  be  thus  considered  when 
erected  around  a  well  ?  He  lets  us  know,  that  even  if  the  space 
surrounded  by  the  enclosures  is  used  as  a  public  thoroughfare, 
it  is  nevertheless  regarded  as  private  ground.  Then  he  means 
to  tell  us,  that  the  public  who  pass  through  the  enclosures  do 
not  nullify  the  validity  of  the  enclosures  ?  This  we  have  also 
been  taught  [in  Tract  Sabbath,  page  lo].  The  ordinance  there 
is  derived  from  his  dictum  above, 

"  //  is  permitted  to  place  the  enclosures  quite  close  to  the  well." 
We  have  learned  in  a  Mishna  [Sabbath,  xi.]  :  A  man  must  not, 
standing  in  private  ground,  drink  in  public  ground,  nor,  stand- 
ing in  public  ground,  drink  in  private  ground,  unless  he  place  his 
head  and  the  greater  part  of  his  body  within  the  place  in  which 
he  drinks.  Such  is  likewise  the  law  regarding  a  vine-press.  Shall 
we  assume,  that  it  is  sufficient  for  a  man  to  have  his  head  and 


^8  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

the  greater  part  of  his  body  in  the  place  in  which  he  drinks,  but 
does  this  also  apply  to  cattle  or  not  ?  If  the  man  hold  the  ves- 
sel from  which  the  cattle  drink  and  holds  also  the  cattle  (so  that 
they  cannot  turn  around),  there  is  no  question  but  that  it  is  suf- 
ficient if  they  have  their  heads  and  the  larger  part  of  their  bodies 
within  the  enclosures ;  but  if  the  man  hold  the  vessel  only,  and 
not  the  cattle,  what  is  the  law  ?  Replied  one  of  the  schoolmen 
to  the  questioner:  We  have  learned  this  in  our  Mishna,  viz.  : 
*'  Providing  the  head  and  the  greater  part  of  the  body  of  the 
animal  be  within  the  enclosure  while  it  drinks."  Must  we  not 
assume,  that  in  this  case  the  man  holds  only  the  vessel  and  not 
the  animal  ?  Nay ;  he  holds  both  the  vessel  and  the  animal  and 
the  law  seems  to  apply  to  the  latter  instances ;  for  had  he  not  held 
the  animal  also,  how  could  this  be  allowed  ?  Did  we  not  learn 
in  a  Boraitha :  A  man  must  not  fill  a  vessel  with  water  to  give 
to  his  cattle,  but  he  may  fill  up  the  vessel  and  let  his  cattle  drink 
of  their  own  accord.  (This  was  taught  concerning  the  enclosures 
around  the  well.)  Now,  then,  if  we  should  say,  that  this  Boraitha 
applies  to  a  man  who  holds  both  the  vessel  and  the  cattle,  why 
should  he  not  water  the  cattle  out  of  the  vessel?  We  must  there- 
fore assume,  that  he  did  not  hold  the  cattle,  and  consequently 
it  is  obvious  that  one  must  hold  both  the  vessel  and  the  cattle. 

Have  we  not  learned,  that  Abayi  explains  the  mentioned 
Boraitha  as  follows :  The  case  was,  where  a  crib,  ten  spans  high 
and  four  spans  wide  (forming  in  itself  a  private  ground),  and 
opening  into  the  enclosures  surrounding  the  well,  stood  in  pub- 
lic ground  and  the  animal  stood  in  private  ground  ?  The  Borai- 
tha ordains,  that  the  man  should  not  fill  a  vessel  with  water  and 
carry  it  to  the  animal,  but  pour  it  into  the  crib,  i.e.,  he  should 
not  lift  the  vessel  with  water  over  the  crib  and  carry  it  through 
public  ground  to  the  animal,  lest  he  notice  that  the  crib  is 
broken  and  he  will  carry  the  crib  into  the  place  where  the  animal 
stands  to  mend  it,  thus  carrying  a  thing  from  public  into  private 
ground  ? 

Even  if  he  did  so,  can  the  man  be  held  culpable  ?  Did  not 
R.  Saphra  say,  in  the  name  of  R.  Ami,  quoting  R,  Johanan : 
"  If  one  moved  a  certain  thing  from  one  corner  into  another  in 
private  ground  and  then  carried  it  into  public  ground,  he  is  not 
culpable,  because  his  original  intention  was  not  to  carry  it  into 
public  ground?"  Abayi  means  to  state,  that  the  man  might 
mend  the  crib  where  it  was  standing  and  then  carry  it  into  pri- 
vate ground. 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  49 

Come  and  hear  (another  objection):  "  A  camel,  whose  head 
and  greater  part  of  the  body  was  within  the  enclosures  around  a 
well,  may  be  crammed."  Now,  in  such  a  case,  the  man  certainly 
holds  the  animal  and  the  vessel,  and  still  it  is  necessary  that  the 
head  and  larger  part  of  the  body  of  the  animal  be  within  the 
enclosures  ?  Said  R,  A'ha  bar  R.  Huna  in  the  name  of  R. 
Shesheth:  "  With  a  camel  it  is  different;  the  neck  of  a  camel 
being  very  long,  if  the  camel  turned  its  head  around  it  would  be 
in  public  ground." 

We  have  learned  also  in  a  Boraitha,  that  R.  Eliezer  also 
prohibits  this  to  be  done  with  a  camel,  because  its  neck  is 
very  long. 

R.  Itz'hak  bar  Ada  said:  "  The  enclosures  around  wells  are 
not  permitted  to  be  used  by  any  but  the  pilgrims  while  going  to 
Jerusalem  for  the  festivals."  Did  we  not  learn  in  a  Boraitha 
that  the  enclosures  are  allowed  only  for  cattle  ?  By  cattle  is 
meant  the  cattle  of  the  pilgrims,  but  what  should  a  man  who 
wishes  to  drink  do  ?  He  should  hold  on  to  the  walls  of  the  well 
and  drink  there.  [This  is  not  so !  Did  not  R.  Itz'hak  in  the 
name  of  R.  Jehudah  quoting  Samuel  say,  that  the  enclosures  are 
permitted  to  be  made  only  around  wells  containing  spring-water 
but  not  rain-water  ?  If  the  wells  were  only  allowed  for  cattle, 
why  should  this  distinction  be  made  ?  The  water  must  be  fit  for 
human  use  also  (because  the  enclosures  are  erected  for  the  sake 
of  the  water,  the  latter  should  be  good  water).]  If  the  walls  of 
the  well  were  very  wide  and  a  man  could  not  climb  over  them, 
he  may  draw  water  from  the  well  and  drink  it. 

R.  Jeremiah  bar  Abba  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  The  laws 
of  a  road  that  had  huts  built  on  it  at  seventy  ells  apart  and  of 
enclosures  around  wells  do  not  hold  good  in  Babylon  or  any- 
where outside  of  Palestine.  The  first  law  does  not  apply  to 
Babylon  on  account  of  the  frequent  floods  and  to  other  lands  on 
account  of  thieves  who  would  steal  the  huts,  and  the  second  law 
does  not  apply  to  Babylon  because  of  the  abundance  of  water 
and  to  other  lands  because  there  are  no  colleges  of  learning. 

Said  R.  Hisda  to  Mari  the  son  of  R.  Huna  the  son  of  Jere- 
miah bar  Abba:  "  I  have  heard,  that  ye,  men  of  Bamash,  go  to 
the  synagogue  of  Daniel  on  the  Sabbath,  a  distance  of  three 
miles.  Upon  what  grounds  do  ye  do  this  ?  Do  yc  depend  upon 
the  law  of  huts  ?  Was  it  not  said  by  thy  grandrather  in  the 
name  of  Rabh,  that  this  law  does  not  apply  to  Babylon  ? "  R. 
Hisda  was  shown  by  Mari  demolished  buildings  scattered  over 

VOL.   III. — 4 


50  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

the  entire  road,  at  about  seventy  ells  apart,  which  at  one  time 
formed  part  of  the  city  itself. 

Said  R.  Hisda:  Mari  bar  Mar  related:  It  is  written  [Jeremiah 
xxiv,  i]:  "  The  Lord  caused  me  to  see,  and,  behold,  there  were 
two  baskets  of  figs  placed  before  the  temple  of  the  Lord,"  etc., 
and  [ibid.  2] :  "  The  one  basket  had  very  good  figs,  like  the  figs 
that  are  first  ripe ;  and  the  other  basket  had  very  bad  figs,  which 
could  not  be  eaten,  from  being  so  bad."  The  good  figs  repre- 
sent the  strictly  righteous  and  the  bad  figs  the  grossly  wicked, 
but  if  you  mean  to  say,  that  for  the  grossly  wicked  there  is  no 
more  hope,  therefore  it  is  written  [Solomon's  Song  vii.  14] : 
"  The  mandrakes*  give  forth  their  smell." 

Rabha  preached:  "By  the  passage  'The  mandrakes  give 
forth  their  smell '  is  meant  the  young  men  of  Israel  who  have  not 
yet  tasted  of  the  fruit  of  sin,  and  by  *  at  our  doors  are  all  man- 
ners of  precious  fruits '  is  meant  the  virgins  of  Israel  who  are 
modest  before  their  marriage,  and  by  the  passage  '  new  and  also 
old,  O  my  friend !  these  have  I  laid  up  for  thee '  is  meant  what 
the  congregation  of  Israel  said  to  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He, 
namely:  '  Creator  of  the  Universe!  Even  more  than  thou  hast 
ordained  for  us,  have  we  ordained  for  ourselves  and  have  faith- 
fully observed.'  " 

Said  R,  Hisda  to  one  of  the  scholars  who  read  legendary 
matter  before  him:  "  Hast  thou  not  heard  what  is  meant  by 
'  new  and  also  old  '  (in  the  passage  quoted)  ?"  He  answered: 
"  '  The  old  '  refers  to  biblical  ordinances  and  the  '  new  '  to  rab- 
binical." 

Rabha  preached:  "  It  is  written  [Ecclesiastes  xii.  12]:  '  But 
more  than  all  these,  my  son,  take  warning  for  thyself:  the 
making  of  many  books  would  have  no  end;  and  much  preaching 
is  a  weariness  of  the  flesh.'  This  means:  '  My  son,  be  careful 
in  the  observance  of  the  rabbinical  commandments  (even  more 
than  in  the  biblical);  for  while  the  biblical  commandments  are 
for  the  most  part  positive  and  negative  {i.e.,  not  always  involv- 
ing the  death-penalty  if  violated),  the  rabbinical  commandments, 
if  infracted,  would  involve  capital  punishment.  Lest  one  might 
say,  that  if  such  be  the  case,  why  were  not  the  rabbinical  com- 
mandments written  down,  the  answer  is  provided,  '  The  making 
of  many  books  would  have  no  end.'     The  end  of  the  passage 


*  The  Hebrew  term  used  for  baskets  and  for  mandrakes  in  both  passages  is 
"  Dudaim,"  hence  the  inference  by  analogy. 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  51 

'  Much  preaching  is  a  weariness  of  the  flesh,'  signifies,  that  one 
who  devotes  much  thought  and  reflection  to  the  rabbinical  com- 
mandments, acquires  a  taste  as  if  he  had  eaten  an  excess  of 
meat." 

The  Rabbis  taught:  It  happened  that  when  R.  Aqiba  was  in 
prison  R.  Jehoshua  of  Garsi  served  him  every  day.  Water  was 
given  R.  Aqiba  in  a  measure.  One  day  the  warden  of  the  prison 
said  to  R.  Jehoshua:  "  To-day  thy  measure  of  water  is  too 
large.  Perhaps  it  is  thy  intention  to  undermine  the  prison." 
So  he  poured  out  half  the  water  and  returned  the  remainder. 
When  R.  Jehoshua  came  to  R.  Aqiba  the  latter  said  to  him : 
"  Dost  thou  not  know,  that  I  am  an  old  man  and  that  my  life  is 
dependent  upon  thee  ? "  R.  Jehoshua  then  related  what  had 
happened.  Said  R.  Aqiba:  "  Give  me  the  water  and  I  will  wash 
my  hands  prior  to  eating,"  and  he  answered:  "  There  is  hardly 
enough  water  to  drink,  and  thou  wouldst  use  it  to  wash  thy 
hands  ?"  Rejoined  R.  Aqiba:  "  What  can  I  do  ?  I  must  fol- 
low the  rabbinical  commandment,  which  if  violated  would 
involve  capital  punishment.  It  were  better  for  me  that  I  die  of 
hunger,  than  to  act  contrary  to  the  opinion  of  my  colleagues." 
And  it  was  said  that  R.  Aqiba  would  not  taste  anything  until 
water  was  brought  to  him  to  wash  his  hands.  When  the  sages 
heard  of  this,  they  said :  If  he  was  so  careful  in  his  old  age  how 
was  he  in  his  youth,  and  if  he  was  so  particular  in  prison  how 
was  he  when  at  liberty! 

R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Samuel :  In  the  time  that 
Solomon  the  king  ordained  the  law  of  Erubin  and  that  of  wash- 
ing the  hands  (before  meals)  a  heavenly  voice  was  heard,  which 
said  [Proverbs  xxiii.  15]:  "  My  son,  if  thy  heart  be  wise,  my 
heart  shall  rejoice,  even  mine,"  and  [ibid,  xxvii.  11]:  "  Become 
wise,  my  son,  and  cause  my  heart  to  rejoice,  that  I  may  give  an 
answer  to  him  that  reproacheth  me." 

Rabha  preached  again:  It  is  written  [Solomon's  Song  vii. 
12-13]:  "  Come,  my  friend!  let  us  go  forth  into  the  field;  let  us 
spend  the  night  in  the  villages;  let  us  get  up  early  to  the  vine- 
yards ;  let  us  see  if  the  vine  have  blossomed,  whether  the  young 
grape  have  opened  to  the  view,  whether  the  pomegranates  have 
budded :  there  will  I  give  my  caresses  unto  thee."  "  Come,  my 
friend!  let  us  go  into  the  field."  Thus  said  the  community  of 
Israel  before  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He:  "Creator  of  the 
Universe!  Judge  us  not  by  the  inhabitants  of  the  large  cities; 
for  there  is  robbery,  rapine,  false-swearing,  and  swearing  in  vain 


52  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

among  them.  Come  into  the  field  and  we  will  show  Thee  many 
scholars  who  study  the  Law  although  they  are  in  poor  circum- 
stances." "Let  us  spend  the  night  in  the  villages."  *  This 
means :  Come  with  us  and  we  will  show  Thee  so  many,  to  whom 
Thou  hast  shown  so  much  mercy  and  still  they  deny  Thee.  "  Let 
us  go  up  early  into  the  vineyards,"  refers  to  the  synagogues 
and  the  houses  of  learning.  "  Let  us  see  if  the  vine  have 
blossomed, ' '  refers  to  those  who  study  the  Holy  Writ.  ' '  Whether 
the  young  grape  have  opened  to  the  view,"  refers  to  those  who 
study  the  Mishna.  "  Whether  the  pomegranates  have  budded," 
refers  to  those  who  study  the  Gemara.  "  There  will  I  give  my 
caresses  unto  thee,"  signifies:  We  will  show  Thee  our  children 
who  honor  and  revere  us  by  studying  the  Law  and  walking  in 
Thy  ways. 

Said  R.  Hamnuna:  It  is  written  [I  Kings  v.  12]:  "And  he 
spoke  three  thousand  proverbs  and  his  songs  were  a  thousand 
and  five."  From  this  it  is  inferred,  that  Solomon  said  three 
thousand  proverbs  for  every  one  of  the  biblical  commandments 
and  gave  one  thousand  and  five  reasons  for  each  of  the  rabbin- 
ical commandments. 

Rabha  preached:  It  is  written  [Ecclesiastes  xii.  9]:  "And 
in  addition  to  this  that  Koheleth  was  wise,  he  continually  also 
taught  the  people  knowledge,  and  he  probed,  and  searched  out, 
and  composed  many  proverbs. "  "  He  continually  also  taught 
the  people  knowledge"  signifies,  that  he  supplied  the  Holy 
Writ  with  the  Massoretic  text  and  explained  the  different  pas- 
sages with  parables  and  proverbs.  "  And  composed  many  pro- 
verbs." Ula  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Eliezer,  that  prior  to  the 
time  of  Solomon  the  Scriptures  were  like  a  basket  without 
handles,  that  could  not  be  grasped,  and  when  Solomon  came,  he 
provided  the  Holy  Writ  with  all  the  precautionary  measures 
necessary  for  its  preservation. 

R.  Hisda  said  in  the  name  of  Mar  Uqba:  "  It  is  written: 
'  His  head  is  bright  as  the  finest  gold,  his  locks  are  like  waving 
foliage,  and  black  as  a  raven.'  "  (Locks  are  expressed  by  the 
Hebrew  word  "  Taltalim,"  also  meaning  heaps.)  The  inference 
can  be  made  from  this  passage,  that  upon  every  letter  contained 
In  the  Scriptures  a  heap  of  ordinances  can  be  based,  and  further, 
that  the  one  wishing  to  find  all  the  beauties  contained  in  the 


*  The  Hebrew  term  for  "  in  the  villages  "  is  "  bakphorim,"  and  if  read  "  bako- 
phrim"  through  transposition  of  the  vowel  would  signify  :  "  Among  the  infidels." 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  53 

Holy  Writ  must  devote  himself  to  its  study  until  he  becomes 
"  black  as  a  raven."  Rabha  said  not  "  until  he  becomes  black 
as  a  raven,"  but  until  he  becomes  as  hard-hearted  towards  his 
family  as  a  raven  is  towards  its  young. 

As  it  happened  that  R.  Ada  bar  Mattna  wished  to  go  and 
seclude  himself  in  the  house  of  learning  and  his  wife  said  to 
him  :  "  What  shall  I  do  with  thy  little  ones  ?  "  and  he  answered : 
"  There  are  still  herbs  in  the  field." 

It  is  written  [Deuteronomy  vii.  10]:  "And  repayeth  those 
that  hate  him  to  their  face,  to  destroy  them.  He  will  not  delay, 
to  him  that  hateth  him  he  will  repay  him  to  his  face."  Said 
R.  Jehoshua  ben  Levi:  "  Were  it  not  for  this  passage,  it  would 
be  impossible  to  make  such  an  assertion ;  for  this  is  like  a  mortal 
who  would  rid  himself  of  a  burden  which  had  become  too  heavy 
to  carry."*  The  last  part  of  the  passage  implies,  that  while 
punishment  is  not  delayed  to  the  wicked,  the  reward  to  the 
strictly  righteous  is  delayed.  So  said  R.  Aila  and  it  is  similar 
to  the  dictum  of  R.  Jehoshua  ben  Levi:  "  It  is  written  [ibid,  ii.]: 
'  The  ordinances  which  I  command  thee  this  day,  to  do  them,'  " 
and  signifies,  that  the  commandments  are  to  be  fulfilled  this  day, 
but  the  reward  for  so  doing  is  put  off  for  a  future  day,  i.e.,  will 
be  given  in  the  world  to  come." 

"  R.  Jehudah  said:  '  The  maximum  distance,'  "  etc.  The 
schoolmen  propounded  a  question:  Does  R.  Jehudah  mean  to 
exclude  the  space  occupied  by  the  well  in  the  maximum  distance 
or  does  it  refer  to  the  enclosures  plus  the  space  between  the 
enclosures  and  the  well  ?  Come  and  hear  :  We  have  learned: 
What  is  meant  by  "  the  enclosure  may  be  quite  close  to  the 
well ' '  ?  That  the  head  and  greater  part  of  the  body  of  the  ani- 
mal be  within  the  enclosures,  and  what  is  meant  by  "  it  may  be 
placed  at  some  distance  from  the  well"  ?  That  the  space  be- 
tween the  well  and  the  enclosure  may  be  of  sufficient  size  to 
permit  of  the  planting  of  one  or  even  two  kurs  of  grain  therein. 
R.  Jehudah,  however,  says,  that  it  may  be  only  of  two  saahs' 
capacity,  but  not  more.  The  sages  said  to  him :  Wilt  thou  not 
grant  us  that  as  regards  a  cattle-pen,  fold,  bleaching-ground,  or 
a  courtyard,  a  capacity  of  five  or  even  ten  kur  is  permissible  ? 
He  answered  them:  "Yea;  but  in   the   latter  cases  we  have  a 

*  This  expression  is  rendered  in  Hebrew  by  the  term  ^1D"'a3,  a  literal  translation 
for  which  cannot  be  found.  The  implied  meaning  of  the  term,  however,  is  :  When 
speaking  of  God,  the  assumption  is  made,  that  if  He  were  a  concrete  body,  this  or 
that  could  be  said  of  Him. 


54  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

partition  whereas  in  the  case  of  a  well  there  are  only  enclosures." 
R.  Simeon  ben  Elazar,  however,  said,  that  in  the  case  of  a  well, 
the  square  of  a  space  sufficient  for  the  planting  of  two  saahs  of 
grain  is  allowed,  and  by  "  it  (the  enclosure)  may  be  placed  at 
some  distance  from  the  well"  is  meant  such  a  square  plus  the 
two  ells  necessary  for  the  accommodation  of  the  head  and  larger 
part  of  the  body  of  the  animal.  Now,  then,  if  R.  Simeon  ben 
Elazar  means  to  permit  the  two  ells  in  addition  to  the  square 
space  permitted,  it  is  evident,  that  R.  Jehudah,  who  differs  with 
him,  means  to  include  them  in  that  space. 

Nay;  this  is  not  so,  after  all!  R.  Jehudah  also  means  to 
allow  the  two  ells  in  addition  to  the  permitted  space,  but  he 
differs  with  R.  Simeon  ben  Elazar  in  the  measurement  of  the 
space.  The  latter  holds,  that  the  space  should  be  square,  i.e.,  if 
it  be  one  hundred  ells  long  it  must  be  one  hundred  ells  wide, 
whereas  according  to  R.  Jehudah  it  may  be  one  hundred  ells 
long  and  only  fifty  ells  wide  (for  such  was  the  measure  of  the 
court  of  the  tabernacle).  [The  end  of  the  Boraitha  is:]  A  rule 
was  laid  down  by  R.  Simeon  ben  Elazar:  Every  space  used  for 
a  dwelling  of  any  description,  e.g.,  a  pen,  a  fold,  a  bleaching- 
ground,  or  a  courtyard,  may  be  of  a  size  large  enough  to  permit 
even  of  the  planting  of  ten  kurs  of  grain  therein ;  but  a  roofed 
dwelling  such  as  the  huts  in  a  field  must  not  exceed  two  saahs' 
capacity. 

MISHNA:  R.  Jehudah  said:  If  a  public  thoroughfare 
passes  through  the  enclosure,  it  must  be  closed  up  with  boards 
at  the  sides  facing  the  thoroughfare;  but  the  sages  hold,  that 
it  is  not  necessary. 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Itz'hak  bar  Joseph  in  the  name  of  R. 
Johanan :  "  There  is  no  such  a  thing  as  public  ground  in  Pales- 
tine."* R.  Dimi  sitting  in  his  college  repeated  this  Halakha. 
Said  Abayi  to  him:  "What  is  the  reason  of  this  assertion? 
Shall  I  assume,  that  it  is  because  the  rocks  of  the  mount  Tyre 
surround  Palestine  on  one  side  and  a  canal  on  another  side  ? 
Does  not  the  river  Euphrates  on  the  one  side  and  the  river  Dig- 
lat  on  the  other  side  surround  Babylon  and  in  like  manner  the 
ocean  surrounds  the  world,  then  there  should  be  no  public 
ground  at  all.  Perhaps  R.  Johanan  meant  to  say,  that  the  path 
ascending  the  mountain  and  the  other  descending  from  the 
mountain  is  not  public  ground?"     Answered  R.   Dimi:  I  see 


*  Vide  Introduction  to  Vol.  I.,  p.  xxviii,  §  iv. 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  55 

thou  hast  a  wise  head,  and  it  seems  to  me  as  if  thou  wert  among 
the  pillars  of  R.  Johanan's  college,  when  he  pronounced  this 
Halakha. 

When  Rabhin  came  from  Palestine,  he  said  in  the  name  of  R. 
Johanan,  and  according  to  another  version  in  the  name  of  R. 
Abbahu  quoting  R.  Johanan  :  The  paths  by  which  the  mountains 
in  Palestine  are  ascended  and  descended  do  not  come  under  the 
head  of  public  ground,  because  they  were  not  encountered  on 
the  journey  through  the  wilderness  (the  pillar  of  cloud  removing 
all  hills  and  mountains  from  the  path  of  the  children  of  Israel). 

MISHNA:  Be  it  a  public  cistern,  a  public  well,  or  a  private 
well,  such  an  enclosure  of  boards  must  be  made  for  it ;  to  a  pri- 
vate cistern,  however,  a  partition  ten  hands  high  must  be  made. 
Such  is  the  dictum  of  R.  Aqiba ;  but  R.  Jehudah  ben  Babah  said  : 
An  enclosure  of  boards  must  be  made  only  for  a  public  well; 
for  all  others  it  is  sufficient  to  make  a  rope  fence  ten  hands  high. 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Joseph  in  the  name  of  R.  Jehudah 
quoting  Samuel:  "  The  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Jehudah 
ben  Babah."  And  he  said  again  in  the  name  of  the  same 
authority:  "It  is  allowed  only  to  make  an  enclosure  around  a 
well  containing  spring- water."  The  reason  this  latter  saying  of 
R.  Jehudah  ben  Babah  is  quoted  is,  because  in  the  Mishna  he 
states,  that  an  enclosure  must  be  made  only  for  a  public  well  and 
we  might  assume  that  even  if  the  well  contained  rain-water,  pro- 
viding it  be  only  a  public  well,  an  enclosure  may  be  made  around 
it:  therefore  we  are  taught,  that  even  though  it  be  a  public  well 
it  must  contain  spring-water. 

MISHNA:  Furthermore,  R.  Jehudah  ben  Babah  said:  "  In 
a  garden  or  wood-shed  over  seventy  ells  square  and  encompassed 
by  a  wall  ten  hands  high,  it  is  lawful  to  carry  things,  provided 
there  is  a  watch-box  or  dwelling  of  some  kind  (within  the  garden 
or  shed),  or  they  are  close  to  town. "  R.  Jehudah,  however,  said : 
Even  though  there  be  nothing  else  within  them  than  a  cistern,  a 
reservoir,  or  a  cave,  it  is  lawful  to  carry  things  (in  the  garden  or 
shed).  R.  Aqiba  said:  Even  if  the  garden  or  wood-shed  con- 
tain none  of  these  objects  mentioned,  one  may  carry  things 
within  them  (on  Sabbath),  provided  they  do  not  measure  much 
over  seventy  ells  square.  R.  Eliezer  said:  "  If  the  length  of 
such  a  garden  or  wood-shed  exceed  its  width  by  even  one  ell,  it 
is  not  permitted  to  carry  things  therein."  R.  Jose,  however, 
said:  Even  if  its  length  be  twice  its  width,  it  is  lawful  to  carry 
things  therein. 


56  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

R.  Ilai  said:  I  heard  from  R.  Eliezer,  that  even  though 
the  garden  or  wood-shed  be  large  enough  to  permit  of  a  whole 
kur  of  grain  being  planted  within  it,  it  is  permitted  to  carry- 
things  therein  on  Sabbath.  I  also  heard  from  him,  that  if  one 
of  the  householders  of  a  court  had  forgotten  and  not  combined 
in  the  erub,  he  must  not  carry  anything  out  of  or  into  his  house, 
but  the  other  inmates  of  the  court  may  do  so.  Furthermore,  I 
heard  from  him,  that  a  man  can  fully  acquit  himself  of  the  duty 
(of  eating  bitter  herbs)  on  the  Passover  by  using  hart's-tongue 
(scolopendrium).  I  inquired  among  all  his  disciples  seeking  a 
colleague  who  had  also  heard  him  pronounce  these  opinions, 
but  I  could  not  find  one. 

GEMARA:  "  R.  Aqiba  said :  Even  if  the  garden,'"  etc.  Is 
this  not  the  same  as  was  said  by  the  first  Tana  ?  There  is  a 
difTerence  in  a  trifling  matter  between  the  two,  as  we  have 
learned  in  the  following  Boraitha:  "  There  is  a  trifle  over  the 
seventy  ells  and  something,  which  the  sages  failed  to  specify, 
and  that  is  the  difference  between  the  space  of  two  saahs'  capac- 
ity (which  is  loo  by  50  ells)  and  the  square  of  seventy  ells  and 
something  (two  saahs'  capacity  is  equal  to  100  by  50  ells,  or 
5,000  square  ells,  and  /of  by  /of  ells  is  equal  to  4,994!  square 
ells,  hence  the  difference,  5-|  square  ells).  Whence  do  we 
adduce  this  ?  Said  R.  Jehudah:  "  It  is  written  [Exodus  xxvii, 
18]:  '  The  length  of  the  court  shall  be  one  hundred  cubits  and 
the  breadth  fifty  by  fifty. '  This  means  to  say,  that  the  fifty 
cubits  of  length  exceeding  the  breadth  should  be  apportioned 
to  the  breadth,  so  as  to  make  the  whole  seventy  cubits  and 
four  spans  square."*  What  is  the  correct  interpretation  of 
the  passage  ?  How  can  one  hundred  ells  in  length  by  fifty  by 
fifty  in  breadth  be  understood?  Said  Abayi:  "The  passage 
implies  that  the  tabernacle  must  be  placed  immediately  beyond 
where  the  court  is  fifty  ells  in  length,  and  being  itself  thirty  ells 
long  and  ten  wide,  it  will  have  a  frontage  of  fifty  ells  and 
twenty  ells  on  each  remaining  side." 

"  R.  Eliezer  said:  '  If  the  length,'  "  etc.  Did  we  not  learn 
in  a  Boraitha:  R.  Eliezer  said:  "  If  the  length  exceeded  double 
the  width  of  the  garden  or  wood-shed  by  one  ell,  things  must 
not  be  carried  in  them"?  Said  R.  Bibhi  bar  Abayi:  Our 
Mishna  must  also  be  read  ?tot  "  if  the  length  exceed  the  width," 


*  These  figures  are  approximate  and  the  correct  figures  depend  upon  whether 
:ubit  measured  c  nr  fi  snano 


the  cubit  measured  5  or  6  spans 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  57 

but  "  if  the  length  exceed  doiible  the  width."  If  such  be  the 
case,  then  is  this  not  the  same  as  said  by  R.  Jose  ?  The  differ- 
ence between  them  is  the  one  square  ell  which  R.  Eliezer  adds 
as  a  proviso  but  which  R.  Jose  does  not  incorporate  in  his  dic- 
tum, for  the  former  says  (according  to  the  above  Boraitha): 
"  Even  if  the  length  exceed  double  the  width  by  one  ell,"  while 
the  latter  says,  "  even  if  the  length  be  double  the  width 
(exactly)." 

''  R.  Jose,  however,  said,''  etc.  It  was  taught:  R.  Joseph  in 
the  name  of  R.  Jehudah,  quoting  Samuel,  said:  The  Halakha 
prevails  according  to  R.  Jose's  dictum  in  that  a  square  is  not 
essential.  R.  Bibhi,  also,  in  the  name  of  R.  Jehudah,  quoting 
Samuel,  said:  "The  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Aqiba, 
who  says,  that  the  garden  or  wood-shed  need  not  contain  any  of 
those  objects."  Samuel  found  it  necessary  to  make  both  state- 
ments in  order  to  make  the  ordinance  more  lenient,  i.e.,  that 
neither  was  it  essential  that  the  garden  or  wood-shed  be  square 
nor  that  it  contain  a  watch-box,  dwelling,  etc. 

If  a  wood-shed  of  more  than  two  saahs'  capacity  was  fenced 
in  for  a  dwelling,  and  the  larger  part  of  it  was  used  to  sow  grain 
therein,  it  is  like  a  garden  and  things  must  not  be  moved  therein, 
because  the  fact  that  it  was  used  for  the  purpose  of  sowing 
grain  nullifies  the  original  intention  to  use  it  for  a  dwelling.  If, 
however,  trees  were  planted  in  the  greater  part  of  it,  things  may 
be  carried  therein,  because  it  is  considered  as  a  yard  or  court 
adjacent  to  a  house.  What  is  the  law,  however,  if  only  in  the 
smaller  part  of  such  a  wood-shed  grain  was  sown  ?  Said  R. 
Huna  the  son  of  R.  Jehoshua:  If  the  wood-shed  was  of  two 
saahs'  capacity,  it  is  allowed  to  carry  things  therein  under  those 
circumstances,  but  if  it  was  of  a  larger  capacity,  it  is  not  allowed 
(to  carry  things  therein).  This  will  be  in  accordance  with  R.  Si- 
meon, whose  opinion  will  be  cited  later  (Chapter  IX.,  Mishna  i.). 
If  trees  were  planted  in  the  wood-shed:  according  to  R.  Jehu- 
dah in  the  name  of  Abhimi,  things  may  be  carried  only  if 
benches  were  made  between  the  trees,  but  according  to  R. 
Na'hman,  this  is  not  necessary,  and  R.  Huna  the  son  of  Jehudah 
is  of  the  same  opinion  as  R.  Na'hman. 

Said  R.  Na'hman  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  A  wood-shed  of 
over  two  saahs'  capacity,  which  was  not  fenced  in  for  a  dwelling, 
stood  near  a  house  which  was  subsequently  built  adjoining  it. 
What  is  to  be  done  in  order  to  make  it  lawful  for  the  occupants 
of  the  house  to  carry  things  to  and  from  the  wood-shed  and  the 


58  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

house  on  the  Sabbath  ?  First,  a  breach  of  more  than  ten  ells 
should  be  made  in  the  wall  of  the  wood-shed  (thereby  render- 
ing the  walls  useless) ;  then  the  breach  should  be  filled  up  so  as 
to  make  it  ten  ells  only.  This  will  be  regarded  as  a  door,  and 
will  make  it  lawful  to  carry  things  between  the  house  and  the 
wood- shed. 

The  schoolmen  asked:  "  How  is  it,  if  the  man  tore  down 
and  rebuilt  the  walls  of  the  wood-shed  piecemeal,  i.e.,  ell  by  ell 
until  more  than  ten  ells  were  torn  down  and  then  by  rebuilding 
just  ten  ells  of  the  breach  were  left.  (Must  over  ten  ells  be 
demolished  at  once  in  order  to  render  the  wall  useless  or  does 
it  suffice  if  eventually  such  a  breach  was  made  even  if  it  was 
done  ell  by  ell)  "  ?  The  answer  was:  Is  this  not  the  same  as 
we  have  learned  in  a  Mishna  (in  Tract  Kelim),  that  the  vessels 
of  householders  which  contain  a  hole  larger  than  a  pomegranate 
are  not  subject  to  defilement ;  and  Hezkyah  asked,  what  the  law 
was  if  a  hole  the  size  of  an  olive  was  made  in  the  vessel  and 
stopped  up  and  this  was  repeated  until  the  hole  became  the  size 
of  a  pomegranate.  R.  Johanan  answered  him  and  related  that 
Rabbi  taught  this  in  another  Mishna  concerning  a  sandal,  one 
ear  of  which  had  become  torn  and  was  mended  when  the  other 
became  torn  and  was  also  mended,  the  sandal  after  the  second 
mending  is  not  subject  to  defilement.  Rabbi  was  asked  why 
he  had  ordained  thus,  for  after  the  second  mending,  the  same 
condition  existed  in  the  sandal  as  after  the  first.  He  answered: 
Nay ;  when  the  other  ear  was  broken  off  the  sandal  was  virtu- 
ally destroyed  and  after  it  had  been  mended  it  assumed  a  differ- 
ent appearance.  This  statement  can  also  be  applied  to  the 
wall,  which  with  each  successive  breach  of  one  ell  assumed  a 
different  appearance.  The  answer  was:  Such  explanations  are 
superhuman  (and  can  only  be  made  by  an  angel).  According  to 
another  version,  the  answer  was:  "This  is  a  man  (who  has 
knowledge)."  * 

Said  R.  Kahana:  "In  a  bleaching-ground  (behind  a  house) 
things  must  not  be  carried  except  for  a  distance  of  four  ells." 
Said  R.  Na'hman:  "If  a  door  was  erected  in  the  bleaching- 
ground,  things  maybe  carried  over  its  entire  extent;  because 
the  door  renders  this  lawful." 

If  a  wood-shed  of  over  two  saahs'  capacity  which  had  been 


*  The  Gemara  has  evidently  omitted  the  names  of  the  different  sages  who  car- 
ried on  the  above  argument. 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  59 

intended  for  a  dwelling  was  filled  with  water  it  is  considered  as 
if  planted  with  trees,  and  things  may  be  carried  over  its  entire 
extent.  Said  Ameimar:  Provided  the  water  was  fit  to  drink; 
but  if  not  fit  for  drinking  purposes,  things  must  not  be  carried 
within  the  wood-shed. 

There  was  a  bleaching-ground  in  the  city  of  Pumnahara,  one 
side  of  which  opened  into  the  city  and  the  other  side  into  a 
path  leading  to  a  vineyard,  which  in  turn  opened  into  the  banks 
of  a  lake.  Said  Rabha :  A  side-beam  should  be  erected  on  the 
side  of  the  bleaching-ground  facing  the  city,  and  if  this  is  of  use 
as  an  entry  to  the  city,  it  will  also  be  a  valid  entry  for  the  bleach- 
ing-ground. This  makes  it  lawful  to  carry  things  both  in  the 
entry  and  in  the  bleaching-ground ;  but  as  for  carrying  from  the 
entry  into  the  bleaching-ground  or  vice  versa,  there  is  a  differ- 
ence of  opinion  between  R.  Aha  and  Rabhina.  One  permits 
this  because  the  bleaching-ground  is  uninhabited.  The  other 
prohibits  this,  lest  the  bleaching-ground  become  at  some  time 
inhabited  and  things  will  be  carried  to  and  fro  nevertheless. 

A  wood-shed  of  over  two  saahs'  capacity  which  was  not  fenced 
in  for  a  dwelling  and  was  made  smaller  by  planting  trees  therein, 
is  not  considered  diminished  in  size.  If,  however,  a  pillar  was 
erected  within  it,  ten  spans  high  and  four  wide,  it  is  considered 
diminished.  If  the  pillar  was  less  than  three  spans  wide,  all 
agree,  that  it  is  of  no  account ;  but  if  it  be  over  three  spans  and 
less  than  four,  Rabha  said,  that  the  wood-shed  is  thereby  dimin- 
ished because  a  thing  which  is  over  three  spans  wide  does  not 
come  within  the  law  of  "  lavud  "  (attachment),  and  is  hence 
considered  an  independent  subject ;  Rabha,  however,  maintains, 
that  it  is  not  diminished,  for  a  subject  which  is  less  than  four 
spans  is  of  no  account. 

If  a  partition  was  made  in  the  wood-shed  four  spans  distant 
from  the  wall,  things  may  be  carried  over  the  entire  wood-shed. 
If  the  partition  was  less  than  three  spans  from  the  wall,  all  agree 
that  this  would  be  unlawful.  If  over  three  and  less  than  four, 
Rabba  said  it  is  lawful,  and  Rabha  said  it  is  not.  R.  Shimi, 
however,  taught  this  ordinance  in  a  more  lenient  form,  namely : 
If  the  partition  was  over  three  and  less  than  four  spans  from  the 
wall,  all  agree,  that  it  is  lawful;  but  if  it  was  less  than  three 
then  there  is  a  difference  of  opinion. 

Rabba  bar  bar  Hana  propounded  a  question :  "  If  the  bot- 
tom part  of  a  partition  was  swallowed  up  by  the  earth  and  the 
top  part  remained,    can  it  be  accounted  a  lawful  partition   or 


6o  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

not?"  What  was  the  object  of  this  question  ?  If  it  refers  to  a 
partition  which  was  erected  on  the  estate  of  a  deceased  proselyte, 
then  this  question  is  identical  with  that  of  Jeremiah  of  Bira, 
which  is  decided  in  Tract  Baba  Bathra ;  and  if  it  refers  to  the  Sab- 
bath-law, i.e.,  if  a  partition  was  made  on  Sabbath,  then  the 
question  has  already  been  decided  previously  (page  47). 

Concerning  a  wood-shed  of  three  saahs'  capacity  which  was 
provided  with  a  roof  of  only  one  saah  capacity  Rabha  said: 
The  atmosphere  of  the  unroofed  portion  of  the  wood-shed 
nullifies  the  roof  which  has  been  erected  and  things  must  not  be 
carries  within  it.  R.  Zera,  however,  said :  The  atmosphere  of 
the  unroofed  portion  does  not  interfere  with  the  roof  which  is 
considered  as  attached  to  the  part  of  one  saah's  capacity  and 
things  may  be  carried  within  the  roofed  part  with  impunity.  I 
admit,  however,  that  if  a  wall  of  the  wood-shed  facing  a  court- 
yard was  entirely  demolished,  the  atmosphere  of  the  adjoining 
courtyard  renders  the  remaining  walls  void  and  makes  the  wood- 
shed one  of  over  two  saahs'  capacity. 

There  was  a  garden  on  the  estate  of  the  Exilarch  containing 
a  pavilion.  On  a  Friday  R.  Huna  bar  Hinana  was  told  to  go  out 
there  and  make  the  pavilion  suitable  so  that  things  could  be 
carried  and  meals  taken  within  it  on  the  morrow.  He  went  and 
placed  some  sticks  of  less  than  three  spans  in  height  in  the  ground 
around  the  pavilion.  Rabha  then  went  out  and  tore  down  the 
sticks.  R.  Papa  and  R.  Huna  the  son  of  R.  Jehoshua  even 
went  and  hid  the  sticks  so  that  R.  Huna  bar  Hinana  could  not 
obtain  them  again  (because  all  three  held,  that  the  sticks  would 
have  been  of  no  account  whatever).  So  the  Exilarch  applied  to 
them  the  verse  [Jeremiah  iv.  22]  :  "  Wise  are  they  to  do  evil,  but 
how  to  do  good  they  do  not  know." 

"  R.  Ilai  said :  I  have  heard  from  R.  Eliezer,  that  even  though 
a  garden  or  wood-shed  be  large  enough  to  permit  of  the  planting  of 
a  whole  kur,"  etc.  This  Mishna  is  not  in  accordance  with  the 
opinion  of  Hananiah,  who  said,  that  even  if  they  have  a  capacity 
of  forty  saahs,  as  a  parade  ground  for  soldiers  in  front  of  the 
king's  palace,  things  may  be  carried  within  them,  so  it  was 
taught  in  a  Boraitha.  Said  R.  Johanan :  Both  R.  EHezer  and 
Hananiah  adduced  their  opinions  from  the  same  passage,  viz.  [II 
Kings  XX.  4] :  "  And  it  came  to  pass,  before  Isaiah  was  gone  out 
into  the  middle  court,"  etc.,  while  subsequently  city  is  men- 
tioned and  hence  the  inference  that  a  parade  ground  be  it  even 
as  large  as  a  medium-sized  town  is  still  called  a  court  provided 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  6i 

it  be  in  front  of  the  king's  palace.  Their  point  of  difference  is, 
that  one  holds  a  medium-sized  town  to  have  a  capacity  of  one 
kur  while  the  other  holds  that  it  has  a  capacity  of  forty  saahs. 

"  I  also  heard  from  him,''  etc.  Did  we  not  learn  in  another 
Mishna,  that  neither  the  householder  himself  nor  the  other 
inmates  of  the  court  (yard)  may  carry  anything  to  and  from  his 
house  ?  Said  R.  Huna  the  son  of  R.  Jehoshua  in  the  name  of 
R.  Shesheth:  This  presents  no  difficulty.  The  Mishna  is  in 
accordance  with  R.  Eliezer,  who  holds,  that  if  one  had  resigned 
his  right  to  the  use  of  the  court  he  also  resigned  his  privilege  of 
the  use  of  his  house,  but  according  to  the  opinion  of  the  rabbis 
it  may  be  said  that,  if  he  had  resigned  his  right  to  the  court,  he 
did  not  thereby  resign  his  privilege  of  the  use  of  his  house.  Is 
this  not  self-evident  ?  (Why  should  we  say,  it  may  be  said  ?) 
They  cannot  differ  on  any  other  point.  Said  Rahabha  (Rabha) : 
I  and  R.  Huna  bar  Hinana  have  explained  this  as  follows: 
The  case  was,  where  there  were  five  inmates  of  one  court,  and 
one  of  them  forgot  to  combine  in  the  erub;  according  to  R. 
Eliezer,  at  the  time  that  he  resigns  his  right  to  the  use  of  the 
court  in  favor  of  all  the  other  inmates  he  need  not  do  so  to  each 
one  individually  also,  and  he  at  the  same  time  resigns  the  privi- 
lege of  using  his  house  to  the  other  inmates,  while  according  to 
the  Rabbis,  he  must  do  so  to  each  one  of  the  inmates  individu- 
ally and  must  also  bear  in  mind  to  resign  his  privilege  of  using 
his  house. 


CHAPTER   III. 

REGULATIONS  CONCERNING  WHEREWITH  AND  WHERE  AN  ERUB  MAY 
BE  MADE.  WHEREBY  AN  ERUB  BECOMES  INVALID.  THE  ERUB 
OF  LIMITS,  WITH  ITS  CONDITIONS.  WHEN  A  FESTIVAL  OR  NEW- 
YEAR   PRECEDES   THE   SABBATH. 

MISHNA:  The  Erub  may  be  effected  with  all  kinds  of  vic- 
tuals excepting  water  and  salt.  All  kinds  of  victuals  may  be 
bought  with  the  proceeds  of  the  second  tithe  except  water  and 
salt.  One  who  has  vowed  to  abstain  from  food,  may  partake  of 
water  and  salt.  The  Erub  may  be  made  for  a  Nazarite  with 
wine  and  for  an  ordinary  Israelite  with  heave-offering.  Sym- 
machus  said :  Unconsecrated  things  only  may  be  used  for  the 
Erub  of  an  ordinary  Israelite.  The  Erub  of  a  priest  may  be 
placed  on  a  spot  which  had  formerly  been  used  as  a  cemetery. 
R.  Jehudah  said :  It  may  even  be  placed  in  an  actual  burying- 
ground,  since  the  priest  may  make  a  partition  between  himself 
and  the  burying-ground  and  then  eat  the  Erub. 

GEMARA:  R.  Johanan  said:  "  We  must  not  accept  all  the 
Mishnaoth  that  commence  with  a  general  rule  as  final,  even  such 
as  are  supplemented  with  an  exception."  Said  Rabhina,  accord- 
ing to  another  version  R.  Na'hman :  We  can  infer  this  from  our 
Mishna  above.  It  is  stated  therein,  that  with  all  kinds  of  victuals 
an  Erub  may  be  effected,  excepting  water  and  salt,  and  there  are 
certain  mushrooms  with  which  an  Erub  cannot  be  effected  also. 
Consequently  we  may  assume  from  this  Mishna,  that  all  those 
commencing  with  a  general  rule,  even  such  as  are  supplemented 
with  exceptions,  need  not  be  accepted  as  final. 

"All  kinds  of  victuals,''  etc.  One  of  the  two  sages,  R. 
Eliezer  or  R.  Jose  bar  R.  Hanina,  taught  as  follows:  The 
Mishna  means  to  state,  that  an  Erub  must  not  be  made  with 
either  water  or  salt,  but  with  the  two  together  it  is  allowed," 
and  one  of  them  taught  the  same  with  reference  to  second  tithes, 
viz,  :  With  the  proceeds  of  the  second  tithes  salt  or  water  must  not 
be  bought;  but  the  two  together  maybe  bought.  The  one  who 
applies  this  opinion  to  second  tithes  does  so  even  to  a  greater 

62 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  63 

degree  in  the  case  of  the  Erub ;  but  the  one  who  applies  this  to 
an  Erub  does  not  do  so  in  the  case  of  the  second  tithes;  because 
some  fruit  must  be  bought  therewith.  When  R.  Itz'hak  came 
from  Palestine,  he  taught  this  to  apply  to  second  tithes  also. 

An  objection  was  made:  R.  Jehudah  ben  Gadish  testified  in 
the  presence  of  R.  Eliezer,  that  his  father's  house  used  to  buy 
fish-brine  with  the  proceeds  of  the  second  tithes.  Said  R. 
Eliezer  to  him:  "  Perhaps  thou  didst  not  observe,  that  there 
were  pieces  of  fish  in  the  brine."  Now,  R.  Jehudah  ben  Gadish 
himself  testifies  that  fish-brine  was  bought  and  that  is  at  least  an 
article  of  food ;  but  he  certainly  would  not  permit  salt  and  water. 
Said  R.  Joseph:  "  R.  Itz'hak  in  permitting  water  and  salt  to  be 
bought  with  the  proceeds  of  second  tithes  refers  to  a  case  where 
the  water  also  contained  some  oil."  Said  Abayi:  "  If  such  be 
the  case,  why  does  he  say  water  and  salt,  it  would  be  virtually 
buying  the  oil  ? "  The  answer  is:  "  If  the  money  was  paid  for 
the  oil  and  incidentally  also  for  the  water  and  salt."  Is  it 
allowed  to  buy  it  indirectly  ?  Yea ;  it  is  allowed,  as  we  have 
learned :  Ben  Bagbag  said :  It  is  written  [Deut.  xiv.  26] : 
"  And  thou  shalt  lay  out  that  money  for  whatsoever  thy  soul 
longeth  after,  for  oxen,  or  for  sheep,  or  for  wine,  or  for  strong 
drink,  or  for  whatsoever  thy  soul  asketh  of  thee."  "  For  oxen  " 
signifies  for  oxen  together  with  the  hide,  "  for  sheep  "  with  the 
wool,  "for  wine"  together  with  the  barrel,  "or  for  strong 
drink  "  even  if  it  turned  sour. 

R.  Johanan  said:  "The  man  who  will  explain  to  me  the 
dictum  of  Ben  Bagbag  concerning  the  oxen,  I  will  carry  his 
clothes  after  him  to  the  bath-house."  Why  is  this  so?  Wherein 
does  he  find  a  difference  between  the  oxen  and  the  sheep  ? 
Because  if  we  infer  from  the  verse,  that  the  sheep  may  be  bought 
together  with  their  wool,  which  can  be  shorn,  it  is  self-evident 
that  an  ox  must  be  bought  with  the  hide,  for  how  can  it  be 
bought  otherwise  ?  Hence  the  inference  taken  by  Ben  Bagbag 
from  the  oxen  is  superfluous. 

Wherein  do  R.  Jehudah  ben  Gadish,  R.  Eliezer,  and  the  fol- 
lowing Tanaim  differ  ?  R.  Jehudah  ben  Gadish  and  R.  Eliezer 
interpret  an  extension  and  a  limitation  thus:  "  Thou  shalt  lay 
out  that  money  for  whatsoever  thy  soul  longeth  "  is  an  exten- 
sion then  ;  "for  oxen,  or  for  sheep,  for  wine  or  for  strong  drink  " 
is  a  limitation;  "  or  for  whatever  thy  soul  asketh  of  thee"  is 
again  an  extension.  Thus  we  have  an  extension,  a  limitation 
and  another  extension.     What  is  the  extension  ?  "  For  every- 


64  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

thing."  But  what  is  the  limitation  ?  According  to  R.  Eliezer, 
it  is  fish-brine,  and  according  to  R.  Jehudah  ben  Gadish  it  is  water 
and  salt,  and  the  other  Tanaim  do  not  refer  to  extension  and 
limitation  but  to  the  effect  of  general  and  particular  terms,  as 
we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  "  Thou  shalt  lay  out  that  money 
for  whatsoever  thy  soul  desireth  "  is  a  general  term,  "  for  oxen, 
for  sheep,  etc.,"  is  a  particular  term,  and  again  "  or  for  whatso- 
ever thy  soul  asketh  of  thee  "  is  a  general  term ;  hence  we  have 
a  general  term,  a  particular  term  and  another  general  term,  and 
wherever  there  is  a  particular  term  in  the  midst  of  two  general 
terms  the  particular  term  determines  the  rule.  Thus  the  par- 
ticular thing  to  be  bought  with  the  proceeds  of  second  tithes  is 
fruit  of  fruit  {i.e.,  a  calf  born  of  a  cow  or  oil  of  olives)  and  every- 
thing generated  above  the  ground ;  but  salt  and  water  or  fish- 
brine  is  not  included. 

In  another  Boraitha  however  we  were  taught,  that  as  the  par- 
ticular term  refers  to  something  born  on  or  growing  out  of  the 
ground,  so  does  also  the  general  term  refer  to  subjects  of  this 
kind.  What  is  the  point  of  difference  between  the  two  Borai- 
thas  ?  Said  Abayi :  "Concerning  fish."  According  to  the 
Boraitha  which  holds,  that  the  particular  term  refers  to  fruit  of 
fruit  and  everything  generated  above  the  ground,  fish  is  also 
included  as  it  derives  its  sustenance  from  the  earth ;  but  accord- 
ing to  the  Boraitha  which  holds,  that  only  something  born  on  or 
growing  out  of  the  ground  is  meant,  fish  is  excluded  because  it 
is  generated  in  the  waters. 

Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  R.  Samuel  barShilas  quoting 
Rabh:  "An  Erub  may  be  made  with  lettuce,  Halaglugoth  (a 
certain  edible  plant)  and  clover  but  not  with  green  rye-stalks  and 
bad  figs."  How  can  he  say  that  clover  maybe  used?  Have 
we  not  learned,  that  clover  maybe  eaten  only  by  those  who  have 
many  children  but  not  by  such  as  have  none  ?  Have  we  not 
learned  that  for  a  Nazarite  an  Erub  may  be  made  with  wine  and 
for  an  ordinary  Israelite  with  heave-offering  ?  Although  neither 
of  these  two  are  allowed  to  partake  of  those  things,  there  are 
others  who  may  do  so  and  the  same  case  can  be  applied  to  clover, 
while  there  are  some  who  are  not  allowed  to  eat  it,  there  are 
others  who  may;  hence  all  may  use  it  for  the  purpose  of  making 
an  Erub. 

With  green  rye-stalks  it  is  not  allowed  ?  Did  not  R.  Jehudah 
say  in  the  name  of  Rabh,  that  hops  and  green  rye-stalks  may  be 
used  to  make  an   Erub  and  the  benediction  to  be  pronounced 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  65 

over  these  is  "  Blessed  be  He,  etc.,  who  hath  created  the  fruits 
of  the  earth  "  ?  This  presents  no  difficulty;  for  Rabh  said,  that 
rye-stalks  were  not  permitted  to  be  used,  before  he  came  to  Baby- 
Ion,  not  knowing  that  it  was  used  for  food,  but  when  he  learned 
that  such  was  the  case,  he  allowed  its  use. 

With  bad  figs  it  is  not  allowed  ?  Have  we  not  learned,  that 
palm-tops  may  be  bought  with  the  proceeds  of  second  tithes  and 
that  they  are  not  subject  to  defilement  incidental  to  eatables,  and 
bad  figs  may  also  be  bought  with  the  proceeds  of  second  tithes  but 
they  are  subject  to  the  defilement  ?  R.  Jehudah,  however,  said 
that  palm-tops  were  considered  the  same  as  trees  under  all  cir- 
cumstances with  the  exception  that  they  may  be  bought  with 
the  proceeds  of  second  tithes  and  that  bad  figs  are  considered 
the  same  as  other  fruit  except  that  they  are  not  subject  to  tith- 
ing ?  Thou  sayest,  they  are  subject  to  defilement  ?  That  is  a 
different  matter.  The  reason  of  that  is,  as  R.  Johanan  stated 
in  another  case,  that  they  can  be  made  good  through  cooking 
over  a  fire  and  therefore  they  are  subject  to  defilement,  but  they 
must  not  be  used  for  making  an  Erub. 

The  text  states,  that  hops  and  green  rye-stalks  may  be  used 
for  making  an  Erub,  etc.  What  quantity  of  hops  should  be 
used?  As  R.  Yechiel  said  elsewhere,  that  a  handful  is  sufficient, 
so  it  is  also  in  this  case ;  a  handful  will  suffice  for  two  meals. 
What  quantity  of  green  rye-stalks  must  be  used  ?  Said  Rabba 
bar  Tuvia  bar  Itz'hak  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  A  bundle  of  the 
same  size  as  that  made  by  the  peasants. 

R.  Helkyah  bar  Tuvia  said:  An  Erub  may  be  made  with  a 
Kalia  (a  certain  root  as  hard  as  a  piece  of  dry  wood).  How  is 
that  possible  ?  Can  it  be  eaten  ?  He  means  to  say  when  the 
root  is  young  and  tender.  What  quantity  should  be  used  ? 
Said  R.  Yechiel:  "  A  handful." 

R.  Jeremiah  went  out  into  the  villages  and  was  asked  whether 
an  Erub  may  be  made  with  bean-pods.  He  did  not  know  what 
to  answer.  When  he  came  back  to  the  college,  he  was  told,  that 
R.  Janai  said,  "  It  was  allowed,"  and  as  to  the  quantity  R. 
Yechiel  said,  "  A  handful." 

R.  Hamnunasaid:  "An  Erub  must  not  be  made  with  raw 
mangold.  Because  R.  Hisda  said  that  raw  mangold  can  kill  a 
man."  But  we  see,  that  some  people  do  eat  it  and  it  does  not 
harm  them  ?  Yea ;  but  they  eat  mangold  which  is  partially 
cooked  and  is  not  quite  raw. 

R.  Hisda  said:  "  Cooked  mangold  is  good  for  the  heart,  for 

VOL.    III. — 5 


66  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

the  eyes  and  above  all  for  the  stomach."  Said  Abayi:  Such  is 
the  case  if  the  mangold  was  cooked  over  the  centre  of  a  big  fire 
so  long  that  it  sizzled. 

Rabha  said  at  one  time:  I  feel,  that  I  am  at  present  in  the 
same  condition  as  Ben  Azai  was  in  the  markets  of  Tiberias. 
[Ben  Azai  used  to  lecture  in  the  markets  of  Tiberias  and  in  his 
time  was  the  most  sagacious  among  all  the  sages,  so  that  he  once 
said :  All  the  sages  of  Israel  are  as  the  peel  of  garlic  compared 
to  me  except  the  bald-head  (meaning  R.  Aqiba).]  So  one  of 
the  scholars  came  to  Rabha  and  asked  him,  how  many  apples  it 
would  take  to  make  an  Erub  ?  He  answered:  "  Art  thou  then 
certain  that  an  Erub  may  be  made  with  apples  ?  "  With  apples 
it  is  not  allowed  ?  Have  we  not  learned  in  a  Mishna,  that  a 
quantity  of  mixed  eatables  equal  to  two  eggs  is  sufficient  to  make 
the  body  of  a  man  incapable  of  touching  heave-offerings  ?*  If 
there  is  sufficient  of  those  mixed  eatables  for  two  meals  they 
maybe  used  for  making  an  Erub.  If  there  is  a  quantity  of  those 
mixed  eatables  equal  to  one  egg,  they  are  subject  to  the  defile- 
ment incidental  to  eatables.  Why  this  question  ?  'Tis  true 
that  the  Mishna  mentions  all  eatables,  but  have  we  not  learned, 
that  wherever  a  general  rule  is  laid  down,  even  when  supplemented 
with  exceptions,  it  need  not  be  accepted  as  final  ?  Consequently 
apples  may  be  excluded  ?  This  question  is  not  based  upon  the 
statement  that  all  eatables  may  be  used,  but  upon  the  fact  that 
a  quantity  of  mixed  eatables  equal  to  two  eggs  may  be  used  for 
an  Erub,  and  if  equal  to  one  egg  it  is  subject  to  defilement  inci- 
dental to  eatables.  And  if  apples  are  subject  to  defilement,  why 
should  they  not  be  used  for  an  Erub  ?  What  should  be  the  quan- 
tity of  apples  used  ?     Said  R.  Na'hman  :  "  A  Kabh." 

An  objection  was  raised :  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar  said :  A 
measure  of  spices,  a  litter  of  herbs,  ten  nuts,  ^vt  persicum  (apri- 
cots), two  pomegranates,  one  citron.  (This  was  a  prescribed 
quantity  for  giving  charity  by  the  owner  of  a  vineyard.)  And 
Ghurseck  bar  Dori  in  the  name  of  R.  Menashiah  bar  Shegublick 
quoting  Rabh  said :  The  same  quantity  is  sufficient  for  an  Erub. 
Now  why  shall  not  apples  also  be  equal  to  apricots  and  only  five 
should  be  sufficient  for  an  Erub  ?  The  fiersicums  are  more  valu- 
able, hence  five  are  sufficient,  but  apples  not  being  so  valuable, 
therefore  a  Kabh  is  required. 

Said  R.  Joseph  :  May  the  Lord  forgive  R.  Menashiah  bar  She- 

*  Vide  appendix  to  Tract  Sabbath,  Part  II. 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  67 

gublick.  I  said  this  to  him  in  reference  to  the  following  Mishna 
and  he  said  this  in  reference  to  the  above  Boraitha.  This  is  the 
Mishna  (mentioned  above).  Nothing  less  than  a  half  a  Kabh  of 
wheat  and  a  Kabh  of  barley  should  be  given  to  a  poor  man  by 
the  owner  of  a  barn.  R.  Meir,  however,  says  a  half  a  Kabh  of 
barley  and  one  Kabh  and  a  half  of  Kusmin,*  a  Kabh  of  three 
or  the  weight  of  a  maneh  f  of  pressed  figs;  R.  Aqiba  said  a  half 
of  a  maneh ;  and  a  half  a  lug  of  wine ;  R.  Aqiba  said  a  quar- 
ter of  a  lug;  and  a  quarter  of  a  lug  of  oil;  R.  Aqiba  said  an 
eighth  of  a  lug.  Concerning  other  fruits,  however,  said  Abba 
Saul :  A  measure  of  fruit,  the  sale  of  which  would  realize  suffi- 
cient for  the  purchase  of  two  meals;  and  to  this  Mishna  I  added 
in  the  name  of  Rabh  that  the  same  quantities  are  needed  for  an 
Erub. 

The  text  said :  If  there  is  sufficient  of  mixed  eatables  for 
two  meals  they  may  be  used  for  an  Erub.  R.  Joseph  meant  to 
say:  "  If  there  is  enough  of  each  kind  for  one  meal."  Said 
Rabba  to  him  :  "  Nay;  it  is  sufficient  if  there  was  enough  of  each 
kind  for  a  half,  a  third  or  even  a  quarter  of  a  meal." 

Rabh  said :  "  One  may  make  an  Erub  with  wine  of  the  quan- 
tity of  two  quarters  of  a  lug. "  Must  we  have  so  much?  Did 
we  not  learn  that  R.  Simon  ben  Elazar  said:  "  With  sufficient 
wine  necessary  for  the  eating  of  two  meals,"  and  by  that  he 
means  boiled  wine  in  which  bread  sufficient  for  two  meals  is 
soaked. 

Rabh  said  again :  "  One  may  make  an  Erub  with  vinegar  suf- 
ficient for  the  soaking  of  food  for  two  meals."  R.  Gidel  said 
in  the  name  of  Rabh:  "  By  that  is  meant  enough  vinegar  to 
soak  herbs  sufficient  for  two  meals";  and  according  to  others 
R.  Gidel  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh  (not  two  meals  of  herbs  only 
but)  sufficient  wine  to  soak  the  herbs  which  are  usually  eaten  in 
two  meals. 

R.  Zera  said  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  "  It  is  allowed  to  make 
an  Erub  with  beer,  but  if  three  lugs  of  it  be  poured  into  a  Mik- 
vah,  the  Mikvah  becomes  invalid."  How  much  beer  is  neces- 
sary for  an   Erub  ?     R.  Ahu  the  son  of  R.  Joseph  wished  to 

*  There  is  a  difference  of  opinion  between  the  commentators  of  the  Mishnas. 
Some  maintain  that  it  is  a  species  of  pease  and  is  used  as  fodder  for  cattle,  and  some 
maintain  that  it  is  a  species  of  grain.  See  Maimonides'  commentary  on  the  Mishna 
Sabbath,  Chap.  XX.     See  also  Hamashbir,  Vol.  V.,  Note  cxxiii. 

f  Weight  mentioned  in  Bible,  I  Kings,  chap.  x.  17,  and  is  equal  to  loc 
drachms. 


68  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

state  in  the  presence  of  his  father,  that  two  lugs  were  necessary, 
i.e.,  one  lug  for  each  meal.  Said  R.  Joseph:  This  is  not  so. 
There  are  men  who  drink  only  one  goblet-full  in  the  morning 
and  another  in  the  evening  (a  goblet-full  is  supposed  to  be  a 
quarter  of  a  lug) ;  hence  two  goblets-full  are  sufficient  for  an 
Erub. 

What  is  the  quantity  of  dates  sufficient  for  an  Erub  ?  Said  R. 
Joseph:  "  One  Kabh."  What  is  the  quantity  of  Sheshitha  (a 
dish  made  of  parched  corn  and  honey)  ?  Said  R.  A'ha  bar  Pin- 
has:  Two  spoons-full.  What  is  the  quantity  of  roasted  ears  (of 
corn)  ?  Said  Abaja:  Two  bunis  (measures  used  in  the  city  of 
Pumbaditha). 

Abayi  said  again:  "  My  mother  told  me,  that  roasted  ears  are 
good  for  the  heart  and  drive  away  care."  He  said  again:  My 
mother  told  me,  that  one  who  has  heart-disease  should  take  the 
meat  from  the  right  shoulder  of  a  ram,  bring  some  willow 
branches,  burn  them,  and  roast  the  meat  on  the  coals.  Then 
he  should  eat  the  meat  and  drink  wine  thinned  with  water. 

Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  "  Of  all  things  that 
are  eaten  with  bread  it  is  sufficient  to  use  a  quantity  eaten  with 
bread  at  two  meals ;  but  of  such  things  as  are  eaten  by  them- 
selves sufficient  for  two  meals  must  be  used  for  an  Erub.  Of 
raw  meat  sufficient  for  two  meals  if  eaten  by  itself  must  be  used, 
but  of  cooked  meat  Rabba  said  it  is  sufficient  to  use  as  much  as 
is  eaten  with  bread  at  two  meals,  and  R.  Joseph  said  as  much  as 
is  eaten  at  two  meals  by  itself  should  be  used,  and  he  said: 
"  Whence  do  I  adduce  this  ?  Because  I  saw  that  the  Persians 
eat  roasted  meat  without  bread."  Rejoined  Abayi:  Are  the 
Persians  the  majority  of  the  whole  world  ? 

R.  Hyya  bar  Ashi  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  "An  Erub 
maybe  made  with  raw  meat."  R.  Simi  bar  Hyya  said:  "An 
Erub  may  be  made  with  raw  eggs."  And  how  many  should  be 
used  ?  Said  R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak:  "  Sinai  ^  said,  two  eggs 
should  be  used." 

R.  Huna  in  the  name  of  Rabh  said:  If  one  vowed,  that  he 
would  not  eat  this  loaf  of  bread,  an  Erub  may  nevertheless  be 
made  for  him  with  that  loaf;  because  though  he  must  not  eat  it, 
others  may.  If  he  says,  however,  that  this  loaf  is  on  him,  i.e., 
he  devotes  this  loaf  of  bread  (in  honor  of  the  Lord),  it  must  not 
be  used  for  an  Erub. 


*  Sinai  is  another  name  for  R.  Joseph,  who  was  well  versed  in  Mishnas  and 
Boraithas. 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  69 

An  objection  was  made :  If  one  vowed  concerning  a  certain 
loaf  of  bread,  an  Erub  may  nevertheless  be  made  with  it.  Shall 
we  not  assume  that  he  said:  "  This  loaf  of  bread  is  on  me"  ? 
{i.e.,  he  devoted  that  loaf  of  bread  in  honor  of  the  Lord).  Nay; 
he  said:  "  I  vow  not  to  eat  this  loaf  of  bread,"  and  such  seems 
to  be  the  case ;  because  the  latter  part  of  the  Boraitha  states  dis- 
tinctly, that  he  said:  "  I  vow  not  to  taste  any  part  of  this  loaf." 
What  is  the  law,  however,  if  the  man  said  that  the  loaf  is  on 
him  ?  It  must  not  be  used  for  an  Erub  ?  If  that  is  so,  why  was 
it  taught  in  the  latter  part  of  the  Boraitha:  "  If  he  said  the  loaf 
is  consecrated,  an  Erub  must  not  be  made  with  it,  because  it  is 
not  allowed  to  make  an  Erub  with  consecrated  things."  Why 
should  this  whole  argument  be  repeated?  Could  it  not  be  simply 
stated,  that  if  the  man  vows  not  to  eat  the  loaf  an  Erub  may  be 
made  with  it ;  but  if  he  declares  the  loaf  to  be  on  him,  an  Erub 
must  not  be  made  with  it  ?  But  as  it  does  not  say,  that  the  loaf 
is  on  him  in  the  first  part  of  the  Boraitha,  there  is  a  contradic- 
tion to  R.  Huna  ?  R.  Huna  said  the  same  thing  as  R.  Eliezer 
said  elsewhere.  Did  R.  Eliezer  indeed  say  so  ?  Did  we  not 
learn,  that  R.  Eliezer  said:  "  If  a  man  said:  *  This  loaf  of  bread 
is  on  me,'  an  Erub  may  be  made  with  it,  but  if  he  said,  '  This 
loaf  is  consecrated,'  it  must  not  be  used  for  an  Erub,  because  an 
Erub  must  not  be  made  with  consecrated  things  "  ?  There  are 
two  Tanaim  who  report  the  dictum  of  R.  Eliezer  in  different 
ways. 

"An  Erub  may  be  made  for  a  Nazarite  with  wine.''  This 
Mishna  is  not  in  accordance  with  the  opinion  of  Beth  Shammai, 
as  we  have  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha:  An  Erub  must 
not  be  made  for  a  Nazarite  with  wine,  nor  for  an  ordinary  Israel- 
ite with  heave-offering.  So  said  Beth  Shammai;  Beth  Hillel, 
however,  said:  "  This  may  be  done."  Said  Beth  Hillel  to  Beth 
Shammai:  "  Will  ye  not  admit,  that  an  Erub  may  be  made  for 
a  man  who  is  obliged  to  fast  on  the  Day  of  Atonement,  although 
he  must  not  eat  it?"  They  answered:  "Yea."  "Then," 
rejoined  Beth  Hillel,  "  as  we  are  permitted  to  make  an  Erub  for 
a  man  fasting  on  the  Day  of  Atonement,  so  may  we  also  make 
an  Erub  for  a  Nazarite  with  wine,  and  for  an  ordinary  Israelite 
with  heave-offering."  What  reason  have  Beth  Shammai  for 
prohibiting  this  ?  They  give  as  their  reason  the  fact,  that  a  man 
may  eat  the  Erub  while  it  is  yet  day  (before  the  eve  of  the  Day 
of  Atonement) ;  but  a  Nazarite  must  not  at  any  time  drink  wine 
nor  an  ordinary  Israelite  eat  heave-offering. 


70 


THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 


This  whole  Boraitha  is  not  in  accordance  with  the  teachings 
of  Hananiah,  as  we  have  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha: 
"  Beth  Shammai  do  not  recognize  an  Erub  unless  a  man  carries 
out  his  bed  and  all  the  utensils  he  intends  to  use  to  the  place 
where  he  proposes  to  make  the  Erub,  so  taught  Hananiah." 

According  to  whose  opinion  is  the  Boraitha  which  states,  that 
a  man  who  deposits  his  Erub  while  wearing  a  black  garment 
must  not  go  out  on  the  morrow  dressed  in  a  white  garment,  and 
vice  versa  ?  Said  R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak:  This  is  in  accordance 
with  the  opinion  of  Beth  Shammai  as  interpreted  by  Hananiah. 

* '  Synimachus  said :  '  Unconsecrated  things  only  may  be  used, 
etc.  Consequently  Symmachus  does  not  dissent  as  regards 
making  an  Erub  for  a  Nazarite  with  wine,  but  does  dissent  as 
regards  heave-offering  for  the  Erub  of  an  ordinary  Israelite.  Why 
is  this  so  ?  Because  a  Nazarite  may  go  to  a  sage  and  be  declared 
free  from  his  vows  as  a  Nazarite.  As  regards  heave-offering  for 
the  Erub  of  an  ordinary  Israelite,  he  holds  with  the  Rabbis,  who 
decreed,  that  all  things  which  are  prohibited  by  rabbinical  law 
on  account  of  the  Sabbath-rest  are  also  prohibited  for  the  time  of 
twilight,  and  as  regards  heave-offering,  an  ordinary  Israelite  must 
not  handle  it  on  Sabbath  on  account  of  Sabbath-rest. 

According  to  whose  opinion  is  the  following  Mishna?  There 
are  sages  who  hold,  that  the  prescribed  quantities  which  are 
dependent  upon  the  size  of  a  man,  should  be  measured  accord- 
ingly. And  the  two  meals  which  must  be  constituted  by  the 
Erub,  should  be  two  meals  suflficient  for  the  man  who  deposits 
the  Erub  ?  Said  R.  Zera:  "  This  is  according  to  Symmachus, 
who  holds,  that  an  Erub  must  be  according  to  the  requirements 
of  the  man  for  whom  it  is  made." 

The  Erub  of  a  priest  may  be  placed  on  a  spot  which  had 
formerly  been  used  as  a  cemetery.''  R.  Jehudah  bar  Ami  said  in 
the  name  of  R.  Jehudah,  that  a  spot  which  had  formerly  been 
used  as  a  cemetery  becomes  clean  of  itself  if  trodden  down  by 
people. 

"  R'  Jehudah  said :  '  It  may  be  placed  in  an  actual  buryittg- 
groundJ  "  It  was  taught:  Because  the  priest  can  go  there  in  a 
wagon ;  for  R.  Jehudah  holds,  that  a  temporary  tent  is  sufficient 
to  intervene  between  a  man  and  uncleanness.  Furthermore  we 
have  learned  that  for  a  ritually  clean  priest,  clean  heave-offering 
may  be  placed  as  an  Erub  even  in  a  grave  and  for  the  same  rea- 
son as  above,  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  the  heave-offering  becomes 
unclean  and  the  priest  is  at  no  time  allowed  to  eat  it. 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  71 

MISHNA:  For  the  Erub  doubtful  grain  (Damai)  (of  which  it 
is  not  known  whether  the  legal  dues  like  tithes,  etc.,  have  been 
acquitted)  may  be  used;  first  tithes,  from  which  the  heave-offer- 
ings have  been  taken ;  and  second  tithes  and  consecrated  things 
that  have  been  redeemed.  For  priests,  the  first  of  the  dough 
and  heave-offerings  may  be  used.  It  is  not  lawful  however  to 
use  unseparated  grain  (from  which  it  is  certain  that  the  legal 
dues  have  not  been  separated),  or  first  tithes  from  which  the 
heave-offering  had  not  been  taken,  or  second  tithes  and  conse- 
crated things  which  had  not  been  redeemed. 

GEMARA:  [The  reasons  for  the  above  Mishna  and  the 
discussions  appear  several  times  throughout  the  Talmud.  We 
shall  render  them,  however,  but  once  and  that  in  Tract  Berachoth 
(benedictions),  which  contains  the  complete  and  identical  version.] 

MISHNA:  Should  a  man  send  his  Erub  by  the  hand  of  a 
deaf  and  dumb  person,  an  idiot,  a  minor  or  one  who  does  not 
acknowledge  the  legal  necessity  of  an  Erub,  it  is  not  a  valid  Erub ; 
if,  however,  he  had  commissioned  another  proper  person  to 
receive  it  from  his  messenger,  it  is  a  valid  Erub. 

If  a  man  puts  the  Erub  in  a  tree  higher  than  ten  spans  above 
ground,  it  is  not  valid ;  but  if  he  puts  it  lower  than  ten  spans, 
it  is.  If  he  had  put  it  into  a  pit,  even  though  it  be  a  hundred 
ells  deep,  the  Erub  is  valid. 

GEMARA :  By  the  hand  of  a  minor  it  would  not  be  a  valid 
Erub  ?  Did  not  R.  Huna  say,  that  a  minor  may  collect  the 
Erub  ?  This  presents  no  difficulty.  R.  Huna's  dictum  refers 
to  an  Erub  of  courts  (where  only  the  meal  is  to  be  gathered  in 
order  to  make  common  cause),  but  our  Mishna  refers  to  an  Erub 
of  limits  (where  a  man  must  go  and  declare  his  intention  of  mak- 
ing that  his  resting-place  for  the  Sabbath). 

'  *  One  who  does  not  acknowledge  the  legal  fiecessity  of  an  Erub. 
Who  is  meant  thereby  ?     Said  R.  Hisda,  a  Samaritan. 

"  //",  however,  he  had  commissioned  another  person,''  etc. 
Why!  Perhaps  the  above  messenger  will  not  deliver  it!  As  R. 
Hisda  said  elsewhere,  that  he  should  stand  and  see  the  messen- 
ger depart,  so  must  he  also  do  in  this  case.  Still  there  is  fear 
that  the  person  commissioned  to  receive  it  from  the  messenger 
will  not  receive  it  ?  As  R.  Yechiel  said  elsewhere,  that  it  is  an 
established  rule,  that  if  a  messenger  has  been  intrusted  with  an 
errand,  it  is  presumed  that  he  will  perform  the  errand  and  this 
must  also  be  assumed  in  the  case  under  consideration.  Where 
did  R.  Hisda  and  R.  Yechiel  make  these  statements  ?    Concern- 


72  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD 

ing  the  following  Boraitha,  which  teaches,  that  if  a  man  sent  his 
Erub  through  a  trained  elephant  or  a  trained  monkey  and  they 
deposited  the  Erub,  it  is  not  valid,  but  if  he  had  commissioned 
a  person  to  receive  it  from  them  and  deposit  it,  it  is  valid.  The 
same  question  arose  here  which  led  to  the  statements  of  R.  Hisda 
and  R.  Yechiel  as  stated  above. 

R.  Na'hman  said :  The  established  rule,  that  a  messenger 
will  perform  his  errand,  holds  good  where  rabbinical  laws  are  con- 
cerned, but  not  where  biblical  commandments  are  to  be  exe- 
cuted. 

R.  Shesheth,  however,  said :  There  is  no  difference.  This 
rule  holds  good  even  where  biblical  commandments  are  concerned. 

"  If  a  man  put  his  Erub  in  a  tree,'*  etc.  R.  Hyya  bar  Abba, 
R.  Assi  and  Rabha  bar  Nathan  sat  together,  and  R.  Na'hman  sat 
near  them.  They  were  deliberating  upon  the  question  of  where 
the  tree  spoken  of  in  the  Mishna  was  situated.  Should  we  as- 
sume that  it  was  standing  in  private  ground,  what  difference  does 
it  make  whether  the  Erub  was  put  lower  or  higher;  for  private 
ground  reaches  even  to  the  sky  ?  Should  we  assume,  that  the 
tree  was  in  public  ground,  where  was  the  man's  intention  to  rest 
on  this  tree ;  if  on  the  top,  why  was  the  Erub  which  was  placed 
above  ten  spans  not  valid  ?  The  man  and  the  Erub  would  be  in 
one  place  ?  We  must  say,  that  the  man's  intention  was  to  rest 
at  the  foot  of  the  tree  (and  if  the  Erub  was  placed  above  ten 
spans  from  the  ground  it  is  not  valid,  because  at  that  height  the 
tree  becomes  private  ground  by  virtue  of  its  being  over  four 
spans  wide,  while  the  foot  of  the  tree  is  still  public  ground  and 
consequently,  the  man  would  have  to  carry  his  food  from  private 
into  public  ground  on  Sabbath  and  that  is  prohibited).  Still, 
will  he  not  make  use  of  a  tree  on  the  Sabbath  and  that  is  also 
prohibited  ?  We  must  therefore  assume,  that  the  Mishna  means 
that  the  tree  was  standing  in  public  ground  and  it  is  according 
to  Rabbi,  who  holds,  that  all  rabbinical  ordinances  enacted  on 
account  of  the  Sabbth-rest  (Shvuth)  have  no  significance  during 
twilight  (before  or  after  the  Sabbath).  Said  R.  Na'hman:  "  I 
thank  ye,  for  so  also  did  Samuel  say."  And  they  rejoined: 
"  Was  it  so  difficult  for  you  to  understand  the  Mishna,  that  you 
thank  us  for  our  opinion.  [Did  they  not  themselves  argue  and 
discuss  the  matter?  Nay;  they  spoke  thus  to  R.  Na'hman.] 
Would  you  insert  our  opinion  in  the  Gemara  explaining  this 
Mishna?"     He  answered:  "  Yea." 

Rabha  taid:  All  this  refers  to  a  tree,  which  was  standing  out- 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  73 

side  of  the  addition  (of  yoi  ells  square)  to  a  town ;  but  if  the  tree 
was  standing  inside  of  the  addition  to  the  town,  it  makes  no  differ- 
ence where  the  Erub  was  placed  on  it,  even  at  a  height  of  over 
ten  spans,  because  the  atmosphere  of  a  town  pervades  all  the 
trees  and  it  makes  no  difference  where  the  man  takes  his  rest. 

Where  is  the  opinion  of  Rabbi  and  the  sages  to  be  found 
concerning  the  twilight  as  mentioned  above  ?  In  the  following 
Boraitha:  If  a  man  placed  his  Erub  on  a  tree  ten  spans  above 
the  ground,  the  Erub  is  not  valid.  If  placed  lower  than  ten 
spans  it  is  valid,  but  must  not  be  taken  down ;  if  it  was  placed 
within  three  spans  from  the  ground  it  is  valid  and  may  also  be 
taken  down.  If  the  Erub,  however,  was  placed  in  a  basket  and 
then  hung  on  the  tree  even  at  a  height  of  over  ten  spans  it  is 
valid ;  such  is  the  dictum  of  Rabbi ;  the  sages  however  say,  that 
where  an  Erub  must  not  be  taken  down,  it  is  also  not  valid. 
(Hence  the  difference  of  opinion  between  Rabbi  and  the  sages.) 
Concerning  what  part  do  they  differ  ?  Shall  we  say,  that  they 
differ  concerning  the  last  part  {i.e.,  where  the  Erub  was  placed 
in  a  basket  and  hung  up  on  a  tree  at  a  height  of  over  ten  spans, 
and  the  sages  say  therefore,  that  such  an  Erub  is  invalid  because 
the  tree  will  have  to  be  used  on  Sabbath  and  that  is  prohibited), 
can  we  say,  that  incidental  use  of  the  tree  is  also  prohibited  ? 
(We  know  that  is  not  so.)  Shall  we  say,  that  they  differ  con- 
cerning the  first  part  (/.<?.,  where  the  Erub  was  placed  at  a 
height  of  over  ten  spans  and  must  not  be  taken  down),  we  must 
first  see  what  kind  of  a  tree  is  under  consideration.  If  it  be  a 
tree  of  less  than  four  spans'  width,  it  is  a  free  place  (not  subject  to 
jurisdiction),  then  why  should  the  Erub  not  be  taken  down  ?  If 
it  be  a  tree  that  was  four  spans  wide,  it  is  regarded  as  private 
ground,  then  of  what  benefit  is  the  basket  which  contains  the 
Erub  (it  must  also  be  taken  down  from  private  into  public 
ground);  said  R.  Jeremiah:  "  With  a  basket  it  is  different.  It 
need  not  be  taken  down  at  all,  but  can  be  bent  over  and  the 
Erub  may  be  removed."  (Although  the  tree  is  private  ground, 
when  the  basket  is  bent  over  so  that  it  is  below  ten  spans  it  is  no 
longer  in  private  ground.) 

R.  Papa  sat  in  the  college  and  repeated  the  above  Halakha. 
Rabh  bar  Shva  raised  an  objection:  "  We  have  learned  in  a  fol- 
lowing Mishna:  "  But  how  must  this  be  done  ?  One  carries  out 
the  Erub,  where  he  means  to  deposit  it  on  the  eve  of  the  first 
day  of  rest  and  remains  with  it  until  dusk,  when  he  carries  it 
back  with  him."     If  thou  sayest  then,  that  it  is  sufficient  if  he 


74  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

hangs  up  a  basket  on  the  tree,  because  he  can  bend  over  the 
basket  and  bring  it  lower  than  ten  spans,  why  should  the  Mishna 
quoted  order,  that  the  man  must  carry  out  the  Erub,  etc.,  and 
remain  with  it  until  dusk;  it  may  just  as  well  say,  that  as  he  can 
remain  until  dusk  and  carry  it  back,  that  it  is  sufficient,  if  he 
deposits  it  and  carries  it  back  with  him  at  once. 

Said  R.  Zera:  This  is  only  a  precautionary  measure  for  a  case 
where  a  festival  follows  a  Sabbath.  (If  it  were  said,  that  the 
man  need  not  go  out  and  deposit  his  Erub,  wait  until  dusk  and 
carry  it  back,  then  go  out  again  on  the  next  day  and  wait  until 
dusk  and  eat  the  Erub,  but  that  he  may  leave  it  there  because 
he  could  have  done  as  the  Mishna  states  and  the  capability  of 
performing  an  act  is  equivalent  to  its  performance, — it  would  be 
wrong;  for  the  day  being  Sabbath  he  would  not  have  been  per- 
mitted to  carry  it  out  again.  Hence  the  precautionary  measure 
was  made  to  apply  to  all  similar  cases.) 

"  If  he  had  put  it  into  a  pit, ' '  etc.  Where  is  the  pit  supposed  to 
be  situated  ?  If  in  private  ground  it  is  self-evident  ?  For  in  the 
same  manner  as  private  ground  has  no  limit  as  to  height  it  also 
has  none  as  to  depth.  If  in  public  ground,  the  question  arises, 
where  the  man  intended  to  take  his  Sabbath-rest?  If  he  intended 
to  take  it  outside  of  the  pit,  he  would  be  in  one  place  and  his 
Erub  in  another,  and  if  he  intended  to  take  his  rest  inside  of 
the  pit,  it  is  self-evident  that  he  may  deposit  his  Erub  therein. 
We  must  say  then,  that  the  pit  was  situated  in  unclaimed  ground 
(in  a  valley)  where  he  intended  to  rest.  The  pit  however  being 
over  ten  spans  deep  is  private  ground,  and  as  for  carrying  from 
private  into  unclaimed  ground  the  opinion  of  Rabbi  again  pre- 
vails, that  such  acts  as  are  prohibited  on  the  Sabbath  are  not  pro- 
hibited for  twilight  on  account  of  the  Sabbath-rest. 

MISHNA:  If  the  man  should  put  the  Erub  on  top  of  a  cane 
or  pole,  that  does  not  actually  grow  out  of  the  ground,  but  is 
merely  stuck  in  the  ground,  even  though  it  be  a  hundred  ells 
high,  it  is  a  valid  Erub. 

If  one  put  it  into  a  cupboard  which  he  locked  and  then  lost 
the  key,  the  Erub  is  nevertheless  valid.  R.  Eliezer  said:  If  he 
does  not  know  where  the  key  is,  the  Erub  is  not  valid. 

GEMARA:  R.  Ada  bar  Massne  propounded  a  contradictory 
question  to  Rabha:  If  the  man  should  put  his  Erub  on  top  of 
a  cane,  that  does  not  actually  grow  out  of  the  ground,  it  is  valid ; 
but  if  the  cane  were  a  growing  one,  the  Erub  would  not  be  valid, 
because  the  tree  would  be  handled  thereby  and  that  is  not  per- 


TRACT    ERUBIN. 


75 


mitted;  then  this  would  be  in  accordance  with  the  opinion  of  the 
sages;  while  the  previous  Mishnaoth  were  according  to  Rabbi's 
opinion  ?  This  was  already  asked  by  Rami  bar  Hama  of  R. 
Hisda  and  the  latter  answered,  that  the  previous  two  Mishnaoth 
were  in  accordance  with  Rabbi's  opinion,  while  this  Mishna  is  in 
accordance  with  the  opinion  of  the  sages. 

Rabhina,  however,  said,  that  this  Mishna  is  also  in  accordance 
with  Rabbi's  opinion,  but  here  the  precautionary  measure  is 
enacted,  lest  the  man  might  break  down  the  cane  if  it  grew  out 
of  the  ground,  while  a  tree  is  too  stout  to  be  broken  down,  and 
in  this  case  Rabbi  concurs  with  the  sages. 

One  Friday,  a  military  garrison  came  to  Neherdai  and  occu- 
pied the  city,  so  that  there  was  no  room  for  the  college  of  R. 
Na'hman.  Said  R.  Na'hman  to  his  disciples:  "  Go  out  into  the 
field  and  incline  the  growing  bushes  towards  each  other,  so  that 
we  have  room  enough  to  study  in  to-morrow\"  So  Rami  bar 
Hama,  according  to  another  version,  Uqba  bar  Ada  objected : 
"  Did  we  not  learn  in  this  Mishna,  that  an  Erub  must  not  be  put 
on  growing  stalks  or  cane?"  Answered  R.  Na'hman:  The 
Mishna  refers  to  brittle  (withered)  cane,  but  as  for  healthy 
(moist)  bushes  it  is  not  prohibited. 

"  If  one  put  it  into  a  cupboard,  etc.,  and  lost  the  key''  Why 
should  the  Erub  be  valid  ?  The  man  is  in  one  place  and  the 
Erub  in  another  ?  He  cannot  even  obtain  it  without  a  key. 
Rabh  and  Samuel  both  said,  that  the  Erub  is  valid  only  when 
the  cupboard  is  not  firmly  immured  but  is  loosely  built,  so  that 
the  bricks  maybe  removed  and  the  Erub  taken  out,  and  that  the 
Mishna  is  according  to  R.  Meir's  opinion,  who  holds,  that  this 
may  be  done  on  a  festival  to  commence  with  and  that  the  Mishna 
refers  to  a  festival  only,  and  not  on  a  Sabbath.  If  this  be  so, 
how  will  the  following  clause  of  the  Mishna  be  explained:  "  R. 
Eliezer  said :  If  the  key  be  lost  in  the  city,  the  Erub  is  valid, 
but  if  lost  in  the  field,  it  is  not  valid."  If  the  Mishna  refers 
to  a  festival,  what  difference  does  it  make  where  the  key  was  lost. 
Carrying  is  not  prohibited  on  a  festival  ?  The  Mishna  is  not 
complete  and  should  read  thus:  If  one  put  it  into  a  cupboard, 
which  he  locked  and  then  lost  the  key,  the  Erub  is  nevertheless 
valid,  providing  it  was  a  festival.  On  Sabbath,  however,  it  is 
not  valid.  If  the  key  was  subsequently  found,  whether  in  the 
city  or  in  the  field,  the  Erub  is  nevertheless  not  valid.  R. 
Eliezer,  however,  said:  If  it  was  found  in  the  city,  the  Erub  is 
valid,  because  he  holds  to  R.  Simeon's  opinion,  who  said,  that 


76  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

all  the  courts  and  wood-sheds  in  the  city  are  as  one  ground  and 
the  key  could  be  brought  through  them  ;  but  if  found  in  the  field 
it  could  not  be  carried. 

Rabba  and  R.  Joseph  both  said:  "  Our  Mishna  treats  of  a 
wooden  cupboard  and  the  Tana  who  holds  that  if  the  key  was 
lost,  the  Erub  was  valid,  considers  the  cupboard  the  same  as  a 
vessel  which  may  be  taken  apart  on  the  Sabbath  and  the  Erub 
taken  out,  while  R.  Eliezer  considers  the  cupboard  the  same  as 
a  tent  which  must  not  be  taken  apart  on  the  Sabbath."  How 
can  they  differ  as  to  its  being  a  vessel  or  a  tent  ?  If  it  was  large 
all  agree,  that  it  is  a  tent,  and  if  it  was  small  all  agree,  that  it  is 
a  vessel?  Therefore  Abayi  and  Rabha  both  say,  that  the  Mishna 
treats  of  a  case  where  the  key  was  tied  to  the  lock  by  a  string, 
which  could  not  be  undone  by  hand.  The  first  Tana  holds 
according  to  R.  Jose,  that  all  vessels  may  be  handled  on  the  Sab- 
bath for  any  purposes  whatever  (hence  a  knife  used  for  cutting 
bread  may  be  used  to  cut  the  string),  whereas  R.  EHezer  holds 
according  to  the  opinion  of  R.  Nehemiah,  who  decrees,  that  all 
vessels  may  be  handled  on  Sabbath  only  for  the  purposes  for 
which  they  are  intended. 

MISHNA:  Should  the  Erub  roll  (or  be  moved)  out  of  the 
limit  of  the  Sabbath  distance,  should  a  heap  of  mould  fall  on  it, 
or  should  it  be  burned,  or  if  the  heave-offering  (used  for  the 
Erub)  became  unclean,  and  any  or  all  of  this  take  place  while  it 
is  yet  day  {i.e.,  before  the  Sabbath  set  in)  the  Erub  is  not  valid. 
If  it  take  place,  however,  after  dusk  (when  it  is  already  Sabbath) 
the  Erub  is  valid.  If  the  time  when  it  took  place  is  doubtful, 
R.  Meir  and  R.  Jehudah  both  say :  This  is  (like  driving)  an  ass 
and  (leading)  a  camel  (meaning,  that  a  man  is  hemmed  in  on  all 
sides).  R.  Jose  and  R.  Simeon  say:  A  doubtful  Erub  is  valid  ? 
R.  Jose  further  said:  Abtolymus  attested  upon  the  authority 
of  five  elders,  that  a  doubtful  Erub  is  valid. 

GEMARA:  Said  Rabha:  (If  the  Erub  rolled  outside  of  the 
limit  of  the  Sabbath  distance)  for  a  distance  of  over  four  ells  it 
is  not  valid ;  but  if  it  rolled  for  less  than  four  ells,  the  man  who 
deposited  the  Erub  is  allowed  four  ells  to  move  in,  outside  of 
the  limits,  consequently  the  Erub  is  valid. 

"  Should  a  heap  of  mould  fall  on  it''  etc.  At  a  casual  glance 
it  was  assumed,  that  the  Erub  could  have  been  extracted  from 
under  the  heap  of  mould  by  hand,  and  accordingly  the  Mishna 
was  in  conformity  with  the  opinion  of  Rabbi,  that  at  twilight 
such  acts  as  are  prohibited  by  rabbinical  law  on  account  of  the 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  77 

Sabbath-rest  may  be  performed ;  subsequently,  however,  the 
conclusion  was  arrived  at,  that  the  Mishna  is  in  accordance  with 
Rabbi's  opinion,  and  that  the  Erub  in  this  instance  could  not  be 
extracted  by  hand  but  by  means  of  a  hoe. 

It  was  necessary  to  insert  both  clauses  (concerning  the  rolling 
of  the  Erub  and  its  being  buried  beneath  a  heap  of  mould)  in 
the  Mishna  and  for  the  reason ;  that,  were  the  first  clause  only 
inserted,  one  might  say:  "  If  the  Erub  rolled  out  beyond  the 
limits,  it  was  no  more  in  its  place  and  hence  it  is  invalid ;  but  if 
it  was  simply  buried  beneath  a  heap  of  mould  it  is  still  in  its 
proper  place  and  why  should  it  not  be  valid  ? "  If  the  latter 
clause  only  had  been  inserted,  one  might  say:  "  In  this  case  the 
Erub  was  buried  and  could  not  be  seen,  hence  it  is  invalid,  but 
if  it  merely  rolled  out  and  can  be  seen,  the  same  wind  might 
bring  it  back,  why  should  it  not  be  valid  ?"  For  this  reason  it 
was  necessary  to  mention  both  cases. 

* '  Or  should  it  be  burned,  or  if  the  heave-offering  {used  as  an 
Erub)  became  unclean^"  etc.  The  ordinance  referring  to  an  Erub 
which  was  burned  up  is  taught  in  order  to  show  the  firmness  of 
R.  Jose,  who  declares,  that  (if  a  doubt  existed  whether  the  Erub 
was  burned  before  or  after  dusk)  although  the  Erub  is  no  longer 
in  existence,  it  is  still  valid,  and  the  ordinance  referring  to  heave- 
offering  which  became  unclean  was  taught  to  show  the  firmness 
of  R.  Meir,  who  maintains  that  although  the  heave-oflering  was 
still  there  and  only  a  doubt  existed  as  to  whether  it  became  unclean 
before  or  after  dusk,  the  Erub  is  nevertheless  invalid.  Is  it  pos- 
sible, that  R.  Meir  holds  a  doubtful  case  based  upon  rabbinical 
law  to  necessitate  the  more  rigorous  decision  ?  R.  Meir  holds, 
that  the  law  pertaining  to  Sabbath-limits  is  biblical.  Does  R. 
Meir  indeed  hold  thus  ?  Have  we  not  learned  in  a  Mishna  fur- 
ther on  (Chapter  V.,  Mishna  3),  that  R.  Meir  maintains,  when 
measurements  are  made  to  determine  the  Sabbath-limit  and 
mountains  are  encountered  that  it  is  permitted  to  cut  straight 
through  the  mountains  (in  an  imaginary  sense  or  figuratively 
speaking),  and  such  subterfuges  are  certainly  not  allowed  where 
biblical  laws  are  concerned  ? 

The  latter  opinion  while  credited  to  R.  Meir  is  not  in  reality 
his  own,  but  the  opinion  of  his  teacher,  while  the  former  is  his 
own  conviction  and  the  proof  is,  that  the  Mishna  quoted  states 
distinctly :  R.  Dostai  ben  Janai  said :  I  have  upon  the  authority 
of  R.  Meir,  etc. 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  How  should  the  dictum  of 


78  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

R.  Jose  to  the  effect,  that  "a  doubtful  Erub  is  vah'd "  be 
explained?  Thus:  If  an  Erub  was  made  with  heave-offering 
concerning  which  there  was  a  doubt  whether  it  became  unclean 
while  it  was  yet  day,  or  after  dusk,  or  with  fruit  concerning 
which  there  was  a  doubt  whether  the  tithes  had  been  acquitted 
while  it  was  yet  day  or  after  dusk,  it  constitutes  a  doubtful  Erub, 
which  is  nevertheless  valid ;  if,  however,  the  Erub  was  effected 
with  heave-offering  concerning  which  there  was  a  doubt  whether 
it  was  clean  or  unclean  to  commence  with,  or  with  fruit  concern- 
ing which  there  was  a  doubt  whether  tithes  had  been  acquitted 
at  all,  it  does  not  constitute  a  doubtful  Erub,  which  is  valid. 

Let  us  see!  Why  is  it  said,  that  heave-offering,  concerning 
which  there  was  a  doubt  whether  it  became  unclean  before  or 
after  dusk,  would  constitute  a  doubtful  Erub  which  was  neverthe- 
less valid,  because  the  heave-offering  is  presumed  to  be  in  its 
original  condition  and  that  was  certainly  clean,  why  should  not 
the  same  case  apply  to  the  fruit  concerning  which  there  was  a 
doubt,  whether  tithes  had  been  acquitted  thereof  or  not,  let  the 
fruit  also  be  presumed  to  be  in  its  original  condition  and  that  is 
unseparated  (of  which  tithes  had  not  been  acquitted)?  Do  not 
say,  therefore,  that  the  fruit  was  doubtful  as  to  its  having  been 
separated  but  say:  there  was  a  doubt  whether  it  had  not  subse- 
quently been  mixed  with  other  (unseparated)  fruit  before  or  after 
dusk. 

R.  Samuel  bar  R.  Itz'hak  asked  of  R.  Huna:  If  there  were 
two  loaves  of  bread  before  a  man,  one  of  which  was  clean  and  the 
other  unclean  and  he  said:  "  Make  an  Erub  for  me  with  the 
clean  loaf  wherever  it  maybe";  but  did  not  know  which  was 
which.  [If  both  loaves  which  were  heave-offerings,  were  used 
in  making  the  Erub;  for  if  they  were  ordinary  and  even  (ritually) 
unclean  they  may  be  eaten  by  an  ordinary  Israelite],  what  is 
the  law  according  to  the  diverse  opinions  ?  According  to  R. 
Meir,  who  pronounced  a  doubtful  Erub  invalid  in  a  case  where 
the  entire  Erub  would  have  been  unclean,  it  may  be  said,  that 
in  this  case,  where  one  of  the  loaves  was  positively  clean,  he  may 
hold  the  Erub  to  be  valid ;  or  according  to  R.  Jose,  who  pro- 
nounces a  doubtful  Erub  valid  in  a  case  where  if  it  is  clean,  he 
can  distinguish  it,  it  may  be  said,  that  in  this  case  the  Erub 
would  in  his  opinion  be  invalid  because  although  part  of  it  is 
clean,  he  cannot  distinguish  it  from  the  unclean  ? 

R.  Huna  answered:  According  to  both  R.  Meir  and  R. 
Jose,  when  the  Erub  is  deposited  (while  it  is  yet  day)  it  must  be 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  79 

fit  to  eat  and  in  this  case  it  could  not  be  eaten  to  commence 
with,  because,  the  clean  could  not  be  distinguished  from  the 
unclean,  how  then  could  an  Erub  be  made  therewith  ? 

Rabha  asked  of  R.  Na'hman:  If  a  man  say:  "  This  loaf  of 
bread  is  to-day  ordinary  but  to-morrow  it  shall  be  consecrated. 
Nevertheless  make  me  an  Erub  therewith."  What  is  the  law  ? 
(Does  it  become  consecrated  at  twilight  and,  as  it  is  not  per- 
mitted to  make  an  Erub  with  consecrated  things,  it  is  not  valid 
as  an  Erub,  or  does  it  become  consecrated  after  twilight  ?) 
"  The  Erub  is  valid,"  was  the  answer.  What  is  the  law,  how- 
ever, if  the  man  say:  "  To-day  this  loaf  is  consecrated,  but  to- 
morrow it  shall  be  ordinary  {i.e.,  it  shall  be  redeemed  by  a  sum 
of  money  representing  its  value) ;  nevertheless  make  me  an  Erub 
therewith  ? "  "  The  Erub  is  not  valid,"  was  the  answer.  What 
is  the  difference  between  the  two  cases  ?  Said  R.  Na'hman  to 
Rabha:  "  If  thou  wilt  measure  a  whole  Kur  of  salt  and  present 
me  with  it,*  I  shall  tell  thee  the  answer:  If  the  loaf  of  bread 
was  ordinary  when  it  was  deposited  as  an  Erub,  the  fact,  that  at 
twilight  it  becomes  doubtful,  whether  it  is  consecrated  or  not, 
does  not  destroy  its  validity  as  a  legal  Erub,  but  if  the  loaf  of 
bread  was  deposited  while  yet  consecrated,  the  doubt  existing  at 
twilight  whether  it  had  already  become  ordinary  does  not  nul- 
lify its  sanctity  as  a  consecrated  object,  and  as  a  consecrated 
object  cannot  be  deposited  as  an  Erub,  the  validity  of  the  Erub 
is  impaired." 

MISHNA:  A  man  may  make  his  Erub  conditional  and  say: 
If  foes  come  from  the  east,  my  Erub  shall  be  valid  for  the  west ; 
should  they  come  from  the  west,  my  Erub  shall  be  good  for  the 
east ;  should  they  come  from  both  sides,  I  am  at  liberty  to  go  in 
what  direction  I  please ;  should  they  not  come  from  either  side, 
I  am  like  the  rest  of  my  townsmen.  Should  a  sage  come  from 
the  east,  my  Erub  shall  be  valid  for  the  east ;  should  one  come 
from  the  west,  my  Erub  shall  be  valid  for  the  west ;  should  one 
come  from  each  side,  I  am  at  liberty  to  go  in  which  direction  I 
please;  should  none  come  from  either  side,  I  am  like  the  rest  of 
my  townsmen.  R.  Jehudah  said:  If  one  of  the  two  sages 
(should  they  come  at  the  same  time)  had  been  the  man's  teacher, 
he  must  go  to  meet  his  teacher;  if  both  had  been  his  teachers, 
he  may  go  in  which  direction  he  pleases. 


*  This  expression  is  generally  used  in  a  joking  sense  when  the  question  is  a  dif- 
ficult one  to  answer. 


8o  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

GEMARA:  " R.  Jehudah  said :  '  If  one  of  the  two  sages,'  " 
etc.  What  is  the  reason  of  the  dissension  of  tlie  sages  from  R. 
Jehudah's  opinion  ?  Because  it  frequently  happens,  that  a  man 
has  a  greater  fondness  for  his  colleague  than  for  his  teacher. 

Rabh  said:  This  part  of  the  Mishna  (wherein  R.  Jehudah 
states,  that  "  if  both  sages  had  been  the  man's  teachers,  he  may 
go  in  whichever  direction  he  pleases ' ')  does  not  hold  good,  because 
Ayo  taught:  R.  Jehudah  said:  "A  man  cannot  make  an  object 
conditional  upon  two  contingencies  and  in  this  case  of  the  Erub 
he  may  make  it  conditional  upon  the  arrival  of  a  sage  from  either 
the  west  or  the  east,  but  not  upon  sages  arriving  from  opposite 
directions."  Why  can  he  not  make  it  conditional  upon  the 
arrival  of  sages  from  opposite  directions  ?  Because  R.  Jehudah 
does  not  admit  of  the  theory  of  premeditated  choice  {i.e.,  he 
does  not  consent  to  a  man  deciding  upon  a  certain  thing  on 
one  day  and  declaring  that  it  had  been  his  intention  to  decide  in 
that  manner  since  the  day  before),  hence  if  two  sages  come  from 
opposite  directions,  the  man  cannot  say,  that  he  had  intended  to 
meet  the  sage  towards  whom  he  went  at  the  time  he  deposited 
the  Erub,  i.e.,  on  the  day  before. 

If  R.  Jehudah  does  not  hold  to  the  theory  of  premeditated 
choice  why  does  he  consent  to  a  man  making  an  Erub  and  say- 
ing: "  If  the  sage  come  from  the  east,  my  Erub  shall  be  good 
for  the  east,  and  if  from  the  west,  for  the  west."  His  choice  is 
certainly  dependent  upon  two  conditions;  first  the  condition, 
that  the  sage  will  come  from  either  one  of  two  directions,  and 
second,  that  he  may  not  come  at  all,  in  which  case  his  Erub  is 
of  no  account.  If  the  sage  arrived  on  the  morrow,  and  the  man 
will  go  forward  to  meet  him,  he  (the  man)  will  be  compelled  to 
claim  a  premeditated  choice  saying,  that  he  had  intended  when 
depositing  his  Erub  to  go  in  that  direction  and  that  would  be 
incorrect ;  for  it  may  be,  that  at  the  time  the  Erub  was  made, 
the  sage  himself  did  not  know  from  which  direction  he  would 
come. 

Said  R,  Johanan :  The  statement  of  Ayo  in  the  name  of  R. 
Jehudah,  that  a  man  may  make  his  Erub  conditional  upon  the 
arrival  of  a  sage  from  the  east  or  west  holds  good,  only  if  the 
sage  had  already  started  on  his  way  and  was  no  more  than  four 
thousand  ells  away  from  the  man  [i.e.,  if  he  or  his  Erub  was  at 
the  time  when  the  man  deposited  his  Erub  already  within  the 
legal  limit  established  through  the  deposition  of  his  (the  sage's) 
own   Erub].      Hence  it  was  not  a  premeditated  choice  on  the 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  8i 

part  of  the  man  dependent  upon  the  two  conditions  cited,  for  the 
sage  was  already  on  his  way  and  his  coming  from  a  certain 
direction  was  an  accomplished  fact. 

Why  does  Rabh  say,  that  the  Mishna  does  not  hold  good 
because  of  Ayo's  statement  ?  Let  him  say  on  the  contrary,  that 
Ayo's  statement  does  not  hold  good,  because  the  Mishna  opposes 
it  ?  Nay ;  it  M'ould  not  be  proper ;  for  we  have  learned  else- 
where, that  R.  Jehudah  does  not  hold  to  the  theory  of  premedi- 
tated choice.  Ula,  however,  declares,  that  Ayo's  statement 
should  be  discountenanced  on  account  of  the  Mishna  (and  as  for 
the  report,  that  R.  Jehudah  discards  the  theory  of  premeditated 
choice,  Ula  declares,  that  on  the  contrary,  he  holds  it  to  be 
good). 

Said  Rabha  to  R.  Na'hman :  Who  is  the  Tana,  who  holds, 
that  the  sages  also  discountenance  the  theory  of  premeditated 
choice?  For  we  have  learned  as  follows:  If  one  man  said  to 
five  others:  "  I  will  make  an  Erub  for  any  one  of  you  whom  I 
may  choose,  and  if  I  desire,  he  shall  be  permitted  to  go  within 
its  limits,  and  if  not,  he  must  not  do  so."  If  he  made  his  deci- 
sion, while  it  was  yet  day  (before  the  Sabbath  set  in)  his  Erub 
is  valid ;  but  if  he  made  his  decision  after  dark,  his  Erub  is  not 
valid,  (because  it  was  not  known  at  twilight  which  man  he  had 
chosen).     R.  Na'hman  was  silent  and  did  not  answer. 

Should  he  have  said,  that  this  was  according  to  the  school  of 
Ayo  ?  He  had  not  heard  of  Ayo's  decree.  Said  R.  Joseph : 
Wouldst  thou  ignore  the  other  Tanaim  ?  There  are  other 
Tanaim  who  dispute  the  above  decision,  as  we  have  learned :  If 
a  man  said:  "  I  will  make  an  Erub  for  all  the  Sabbaths  of  the 
ensuing  year.  If  I  then  choose  to  go,  I  shall  do  so,  and  if  not,  I 
shall  not."  If  he  made  his  decision  while  it  was  yet  day  on  the 
day  preceding  Sabbath,  he  may  go,  but  if  he  made  his  decision 
after  dusk,  R.  Simeon  says,  his  Erub  is  still  valid,  and  the  sages 
say,  it  is  not.  (Hence  there  are  sages  who  do  not  hold  to  the 
theory  of  premeditated  choice.) 

Have  we  not  heard  elsewhere,  that  R.  Simeon  does  not  hold 
to  the  theory  of  premeditated  choice  ?  This  would  be  a  contra- 
diction made  by  R.  Simeon  to  himself  ?  Therefore  learn  to  the 
contrary:  (R.  Simeon  says,  the  Erub  is  not  valid,  and  the  sages 
say  it  is.)  Why  this  question  ?  Can  it  not  be,  that  R.  Simeon 
does  not  hold  the  theory  of  premeditated  choice  to  be  good 
where  biblical  laws  are  concerned  but  does  hold  the  theory  good 
for  rabbinical  laws  ?     R.  Joseph  maintains,  that  one  who  admits 

VOL.   III. — 6 


82  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

of  the  theory  of  premeditated  choice  does  so  for  both  bibh'cal 
and  rabbinical  laws,  and  one  who  discountenances  the  theory- 
does  so  for  both  kinds  of  laws. 

MISHNA:  R.  Eliezer  said:  When  a  festival  precedes  or  suc- 
ceeds a  Sabbath  (by  one  day),  a  man  should  prepare  two  Erubin 
and  say:  My  first  Erub  is  to  be  valid  for  the  east  and  my  second 
for  the  west ;  or  my  first  for  the  west  and  the  second  for  the 
east.  My  Erub  is  valid  for  the  first  day  and  the  second  day  I 
am  like  the  rest  of  my  townsmen,  or  my  Erub  is  good  for  the 
second  day  and  the  first  day  I  am  like  my  townsmen.  The  sages 
however  hold,  that  one  may  prepare  his  Erub  for  one  direction 
only ;  otherwise  it  is  not  valid  at  all ;  also  that  he  must  prepare 
his  Erub  for  both  days,  or  it  is  not  valid  at  all.  But  how  must 
this  be  done  ?  One  carries  out  the  Erub  to  the  place,  where  he 
means  to  deposit  it  on  the  eve  of  the  first  day  of  rest  and  remains 
with  it  until  dusk,  when  he  carries  it  back  with  him.  He  then 
brings  the  Erub  out  again  on  the  second  day,  remains  with  it 
till  dark  and  then  eats  it  and  goes  away.  It  is  obvious,  that  in 
this  manner  he  gains  his  walk  beyond  the  Sabbatical  limit  and 
he  gains  by  eating  his  Erub.  Should  his  Erub  have  been  eaten 
on  the  first  day,  it  is  a  legal  Erub  for  the  first  day  only;  but  not 
for  the  second  day.  R.  Eliezer  said  to  them:  "Thus  ye 
acknowledge  to  me  that  they  are  two  distinct  holidays  {i.e.,  that 
the  sanctification  of  one  day  is  not  equal  to  that  of  the  other)." 

GEMARA:  What  do  the  sages  mean  to  tell  us:  If  a  man 
prepares  his  Erub  for  one  direction,  it  is  good  for  both  days  and 
if  he  prepares  it  for  both  days  it  is  good  for  one  direction  ? 
What  need  is  there  of  this  repetition,  is  it  not  one  and  the  same 
thing  ?  Nay;  the  sages  mean  to  say  to  R.  Eliezer:  "  Wilt  thou 
not  acknowledge,  that  it  is  not  permitted  to  make  two  Erubin 
for  one  day,  one  of  which  shall  be  good  for  the  South  for  one 
half  of  the  day  and  the  other  be  good  for  the  North  for  the  other 
half  of  the  day?"  and  he  answered :  "Yea."  "  Then,"  rejoined 
the  sages,  "  in  the  same  manner  as  this  is  not  permitted,  it  is 
also  not  allowed  to  make  Erubin  good  for  both  days,  which 
should  in  addition  be  also  good  on  one  day  for  the  east  and  on  the 
other  for  the  west."  [What  answer  could  R.  Eliezer  make  to 
this  ?  He  might  say,  that  in  the  case  of  the  two  Erubin  for  one 
day,  the  sanctification  of  that  one  day  continues  throughout  the 
entire  time  of  the  validity  of  the  Erub,  whereas  in  the  case  of 
the  Erubin  for  both  days,  the  sanctification  of  the  one  day  (Sab- 
bath) is  not  the  same  as  that   of  the   other  day  (the  festival) ; 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  83 

therefore  a  separate  Erub  may  be  made  for  each  sanctification  in 
a  different  direction.]  Said  R.  Eliezer  to  the  sages  again :  "  Let 
us  suppose  now,  that  a  man  did  not  make  an  Erub,  but  on  the 
eve  of  the  first  day  went  to  the  place,  where  he  should  have 
made  it,  personally  and  declared  that  he  would  take  his  Sabbath- 
rest  there.  Would  this  hold  good  also  for  the  second  day  ? 
Nay,  he  would  have  to  return  on  the  following  day  and  again 
declare  his  intention  of  resting  there  the  next  day,  and  then  it 
would  be  lawful  ?  The  same  theory  applies  to  an  Erub.  If  he 
deposited  it  on  the  eve  of  the  first  day,  and  it  had  been  eaten 
when  deposited,  he  would  have  to  make  another  Erub  for  the 
second  day  ?  "  and  they  answered,  "  Yea."  "  Now,  will  ye  not 
acknowledge  that  the  two  days  have  each  a  separate  degree  of 
sanctification  ? " 

[What  reply  can  the  sages  make  to  this  ?  They  may  declare 
that  the  fact  of  there  being  a  distinct  degree  of  sanctification  for 
each  day  is  rather  doubtful  to  them  and  for  that  reason  they 
desire  to  enforce  the  more  rigorous  interpretation  of  the  ordi- 
nance both  ways,  namely,  that  an  Erub  must  not  be  made  for 
each  of  the  two  directions,  lest  there  be  but  one  degree  of  sanc- 
tification for  both  days  and  that  one  Erub  cannot  serve  for  both 
days,  lest  there  be  a  different  degree  of  sanctification  for  each 
day.] 

Again  the  sages  said  to  R.  Eliezer:  "  How  is  it,  if  no  Erub 
at  all  was  made  on  the  eve  of  the  first  day  ?  Thou  wilt  acknowl- 
edge that  a  man  cannot  go  and  make  an  Erub  on  the  eve  of  the 
second  day?"  and  he  answered,  "Yea."  "Then,"  rejoined 
the  sages,  "  thou  thereby  dost  admit,  that  there  is  but  one 
degree  of  sanctification  for  both  days. "  [What  will  R.  Eliezer 
say  to  this  ?  He  will  say,  on  the  contrary,  that  there  are  two 
degrees  of  sanctification  and  just  for  that  reason  one  must  not 
make  the  Erub  on  the  eve  of  the  second  day,  because  one  must 
not  prepare  for  a  festival  on  the  Sabbath  or  vice  versaJ] 

The  Rabbis  taught :  "  If  one  made  an  Erub  on  the  eve  of  the 
first  day  by  means  of  his  feet  {i.e.,  by  standing  at  the  place  where 
he  intends  to  rest)  he  must  do  so  again  on  the  eve  of  the  second 
day.  If  he  made  an  Erub  (of  victuals)  on  the  eve  of  the  first 
day  and  the  Erub  was  consumed,  it  does  not  hold  good  for  the 
second  day.  Such  is  the  dictum  of  Rabbi.  R.  Jehudah,  how- 
ever, said:  "  This  is  like  driving  an  ass  and  leading  a  camel  " 
{i.e.,  R.  Jehudah  means  to  say  this:  If  the  two  days  have  but 
one  degree  of  sanctification  and  the  Erub  was  made  for  both  days. 


84  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

the  maker  loses  the  two  thousand  ells  in  the  opposite  direction 
from  that  towards  which  his  Erub  was  made,  and  merely  gains 
two  thousand  ells  in  the  one  direction  towards  which  his  Erub 
was  made.  If  the  two  days  have  different  degrees  of  sanctifica- 
tion  and  hence  the  Erub  is  valid  only  for  one  day,  the  maker  of 
the  Erub  should  on  the  second  day  be  on  a  par  with  the  rest  of 
his  townsmen,  but  in  reality  he  only  has  two  thousand  ells  on 
the  way  back  to  the  town  and  no  more).  R.  Simeon  ben 
Gamaliel  and  R.  Ishmael  the  son  of  R.  Johanan  ben  Berokah, 
however,  both  say,  that  if  a  man  made  an  Erub  with  his  feet  on 
the  eve  of  the  first  day  it  suffices  for  the  second  day  and  if  he 
made  an  Erub  (of  victuals)  on  the  eve  of  the  first  day  and  it  was 
consumed,  he  is  exempt  from  making  it  on  the  eve  of  the  second 
day.  Said  Rabh  :  "  The  Halakha  prevails  according  to  the  opin- 
ion of  the  four  old  sages  and  in  conformity  with  R.  Eliezer,  who 
says,  that  the  two  days  have  different  degrees  of  sanctification ; 
and  the  four  old  sages  are :  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel,  R.  Ishmael 
the  son  of  R.  Johanan  ben  Berokah,  R.  Elazar  ben  R.  Simeon 
and  R.  Jose  ben  R.  Jehudah.  The  last  of  these  is  generally 
quoted  by  Rabbi  anonymousy  wherever  his  opinion  seems  to  be 
justifiable  and  according  to  another  version,  one  of  the  four  sages 
is  R.  Elazar  ben  Samua  instead  of  R.  Jose  ben  R.  Jehudah. 
Rabh's  information  on  this  point  was  derived  from  a  tradition, 
which  was  to  the  effect,  that  those  four  sages  held  in  accordance 
with  R.  Eliezer  concerning  the  two  degrees  of  sanctification  for 
both  days. 

R.  Jehudah  said :  If  one  made  an  Erub  on  the  eve  of  the  first 
day  with  his  feet,  he  must  do  likewise  on  the  eve  of  the  second 
day,  and  if  he  made  an  Erub  on  the  eve  of  the  first  day  with 
bread,  he  must  make  it  in  like  manner  on  the  eve  of  the  second 
day.  If  he  made  an  Erub  on  the  eve  of  the  first  day  with  bread 
which  was  lost,  he  may  make  it  on  the  eve  of  the  second  day 
with  his  feet,  but  if  he  made  it  with  his  feet  in  the  first  instance 
he  must  not  make  it  with  bread  in  the  second  instance,  because 
making  an  Erub  with  bread  to  commence  with  on  Sabbath  or  on  a 
festival  would  be  an  infraction  of  the  law  prohibiting  the  prepar- 
ing on  a  Sabbath  for  a  festival  or  vice  versa.  If  a  man  made  an 
Erub  with  bread  on  the  eve  of  the  first  day,  he  must  make  it 
with  bread  on  the  eve  of  the  second  day  also  and,  according  to 
Samuel,  he  should  use  the  same  bread  in  both  cases  (for  if  he 
uses  new  bread  in  the  second  instance  it  will  be  a  case  of  prepar- 
ing on  a  Sabbath  for  a  festival).     Said  R.  Ashi :  We  can  adduce 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  85 

this  also  from  our  Mishna,  which  teaches:  "  But  how  must  this 
be  done  ?  One  carries  out  the  Erub  to  the  place,  where  he 
means  to  deposit  it  on  the  eve  of  the  first  day  of  rest  and  remains 
with  it  until  dusk,  when  he  carries  it  back  with  him ;  he  then 
brings  the  Erub  out  again  on  the  second  day,  remains  with  it 
until  dusk,  then  eats  it  and  goes  away."  (The  fact  that  it  says, 
"  he  carries  it  back  with  him  and  then  brings  it  out  again,"  is 
proof  that  it  must  be  the  same  Erub.)  The  sages  that  differ 
with  Samuel  and  assert  that  new  bread  may  be  used  on  the  eve 
of  the  second  day  maintain,  that  the  Mishna  merely  administers 
good  advice  and  tells  us,  that  we  need  not  trouble  ourselves  to 
make  a  new  Erub  in  case  the  first  one  is  lost. 

MISHNA:  R.  Jehudah  said:  "  If  a  man  apprehend  that  the 
new  year  will  be  celebrated  two  days,  he  must  prepare  two 
Erubin."  He  then  says:  My  Erub  of  the  first  day  shall  be  valid 
for  the  east  and  of  the  second  day  for  the  west ;  or  of  the  first 
day  for  the  west  and  of  the  second  day  for  the  east.  My  Erub 
shall  be  valid  for  the  first  day,  and  on  the  second  I  am  like  my 
townsmen ;  or  my  Erub  shall  be  valid  for  the  second  day  and  on 
the  first  I  am  like  my  townsmen.  The  sages  however  did  not 
coincide  with  him. 

R.  Jehudah  further  said :  "  A  man  may  conditionally  separate 
(the  heave-ofTering  from)  a  basket  of  fruit  on  the  first  day  of  the 
new  year  and  eat  it  on  the  second  day;  likewise  an  egg  which  is 
laid  on  the  first  day  of  the  festival  may  be  eaten  on  the  second." 
The  sages  however  do  not  coincide  with  him. 

R.  Dosa  ben  Harchinas  said :  He  who  stands  before  the 
pulpit  to  pray  on  the  first  day  of  the  new  year  must  say: 
Strengthen  us,  O  Lord  our  God,  on  this  day  of  the  new  moon, 
whether  to-day  or  to-morrow  (be  the  true  day).  And  on  the 
morrow  he  says  the  same  prayer  with  the  variation  "whether 
this  day  or  yesterday  be  the  true  one."  The  sages,  however, 
do  not  agree  with  him. 

GEMARA:  Who  are  the  sages,  that  do  not  coincide  with 
R.  Jehudah  ?  Said  Rabh :  That  is  R.  Jose,  as  we  have  learned 
in  a  Boraitha:  The  sages  agree  with  R.  Eliezer  that  "  if  a  man 
apprehend  that  the  new  year  will  be  celebrated  two  days,*  he 

*  The  Israelites  living  in  exile  were  dependent  for  their  information  concerning 
the  date  of  the  New  Year  entirely  upon  the  messengers  sent  out  by  the  high  court  in 
Palestine,  which  in  turn  fixed  the  date  upon  the  testimony  of  witnesses  who  would 
announce  when  the  new  moon  appeared  (as  explained  in  Tract  Rosh  Hashana).  Thus 
the  exiled  people  did  not  know  whether  the  30th  or  31st  day  from  the  first  day  of 


86  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

should  prepare  two  Erubin.  He  then  says:  My  Erub  of  the 
first  day  shall  be  valid  for  the  east  and  of  the  second  day  for  the 
west ;  or  of  the  first  day  for  the  west  and  of  the  second  day  for 
the  east.  My  Erub  shall  be  valid  for  the  first  day  and  on  the 
second  I  am  like  my  townsmen ;  or  my  Erub  shall  be  valid  for 
the  second  day  and  on  the  first  I  am  Hke  my  townsmen."  R. 
Jose,  however,  does  not  consent  to  this.  (He  holds  that  if  the 
witnesses  come  before  the  high  court  in  the  afternoon  of  the  first 
day  that  had  been  kept  holy  and  declare  that  the  next  day  is 
New  Year,  both  days  are  nevertheless  holy  and  are  of  one  degree 
of  sanctification.) 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  How  does  R.  Jehudah 
explain  his  dictum,  that  "  a  man  may  conditionally  separate  (the 
heave-offering  from)  a  basket  of  fruit  on  the  first  day  of  the  New 
Year  and  eat  it  on  the  second?  "  Thus :  If  there  were  two  baskets 
of  unseparated  fruit  before  a  man  on  the  first  day  of  the  New 
Year  he  may  say:  "  If  to-day  is  the  ordinary  day  and  to-morrow 
is  the  holy  day,  let  the  heave-offering  separated  from  this  basket 
of  fruit  also  serve  for  the  other,  and  if  to-day  is  the  holy  day  and 
to-morrow  the  ordinary,  then  I  have  said  nothing."  He  then 
designates  the  fruit  which  he  calls  heave-ofTering  and  lets  it 
remain.  On  the  morrow  again  he  may  say :  If  to-day  is  an  ordi- 
nary day,  let  the  heave-offering  of  this  basket  also  serve  for  the 
other,  but  if  to-day  be  a  holy  day  I  have  said  nothing.  He  may 
then  designate  part  of  the  fruit  in  the  one  basket  and  call  it 
heave-offering  and  eat  the  remainder  in  both  baskets.  R.  Jose 
however  prohibits  this  not  only  for  the  two  days  of  the  new  year 
but  for  the  two  days  of  every  other  festival,  which  is  celebrated 
in  exile.* 

It  happened  that  a  stag  was  caught  on  the  first  day  of  a  holi- 
day (in  exile)  at  the  house  of  the  Exilarch  and  on  the  second  day 
it  was  slaughtered.  R.  Na'hman  and  R.  Hisda  partook  of  the 
stag,  but  R.  Shesheth  would  not  do  so.  Said  R.  Na'hman : 
"  What  shall  we  do  with  R.  Shesheth  who  does  not  eat  venison?  " 
Rejoined  R.  Shesheth:  "  How  can  I  eat  this  venison;  for  did 
not  Issi  teach  in  a  Boraitha  [or  a  Boraitha  taught,  that  Issi  said], 


Elul  would  be  proclaimed  the  first  day  of  Tishri  (the  New  Year),  and  both  were  kept 
holy  in  consequence.  For  this  reason  the  Mishna  cites  the  ordinances  referring  to 
such  as  apprehend  that  the  New  Year  will  last  two  days. 

*  In  exile  the  Israelites  celebrated  two  days  each  for  the  holidays  of  Passover, 
Tabernacles,  and  Pentecost,  besides  the  New  Year,  and  these  are  called  the  holidays 
in  exile. 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  87 

that  R.  Jose  would  not  permit  this  to  be  done  even  during  the 
two  days  of  a  holiday  in  exile  ?  " 

Once  R.  Shesheth  met  Rabba  bar  Samuel  and  asked  him: 
"  Did  master  teach  anything  regarding  the  sanctification  of  the 
holidays  ?"  Answered  Rabba:  "  Yea,  I  taught  in  a  Boraitha, 
that  R.  Jose  coincides  with  the  sages,  as  far  as  the  two  days  of 
a  holiday  in  exile  are  concerned."  Rejoined  R.  Shesheth:  "  If 
thou  shouldst  meet  any  of  the  Exilarch's  household,  say  nothing 
to  them  about  this  Boraitha." 

It  once  happened  that  herbs  were  brought  to  the  city  of 
Mehuzza  on  a  festival.  Rabha  went  out  and  noticed,  that  the 
herbs  were  somewhat  withered.  He  permitted  the  herbs  to  be 
bought,  saying:  "  It  is  obvious,  that  these  herbs  were  not  gath- 
ered on  this  day,  and  the  only  objection  that  might  be  made  to 
their  being  purchased  can  be,  that  they  were  brought  from 
beyond  the  techoom  (legal  limits)."  The  law,  however,  ordains, 
that  if  things  are  brought  for  one  Israelite  from  without  the 
techoom,  another  Israelite  may  use  them,  and  in  this  case,  where 
the  herbs  were  brought  even  for  the  Gentile  inhabitants  they  can 
in  so  much  greater  a  degree  be  used  by  Israelites.  Subsequently, 
however,  he  observed,  that  herbs  were  brought  in  large  quanti- 
ties, so  he  prohibited  the  purchase  of  them  on  a  festival. 

The  men  whose  occupation  was  to  prepare  baldachins  for 
marriages  once  cut  off  branches  of  myrtle  on  the  second  day  of 
a  holiday  in  exile.  The  moment  it  became  dark,  Rabhina  per- 
mitted the  people  to  smell  the  myrtle.  Said  Rabha  bar 
Tachlipha  to  Rabhina:  Master  should  have  prohibited  this,  for 
these  people  are  ignorant  (and  if  thou  wilt  permit  this,  they  may 
ignore  the  second  day  of  the  festival  entirely).  R.  Shmaya 
opposed  this:  "  Thou  sayest,  because  they  are  ignorant,  and 
even  were  they  intelligent  men,  would  it  be  allowed  ?  Is  it 
not  necessary  to  allow  sufificient  time  after  the  Sabbath  to 
expire  until  the  branches  can  be  cut  off  afresh  ? "  They  finally 
went  and  asked  Rabha  and  he  decided  that  it  was  necessary 
to  allow  sufificient  time  to  expire  until  the  branches  could  be 
cut  anew. 

"  R.  Dosa  ben  Harchinas  said"  etc.  Said  Rabba:  When  we 
were  in  the  college  of  R.  Huna,  a  question  was  propounded  by  us 
as  follows:  "  Must  the  reference  to  the  day  of  the  new  moon  be 
added  to  the  prayers  recited  on  the  day  of  the  New  Year  ?  "  Shall 
we  assume,  that  because  there  are  separate  additional  sacrifices 
for  each,  that  the  reference  to  the  day  of  the  new  moon  shall  be 


88  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

added  to  the  prayers  of  the  New  Year,  or  because  the  New  Year 
is  mentioned  in  the  prayer  as  the  "  day  of  Remembrance  "  such 
mention  will  sufifice  for  both  occasions  ?  R.  Huna  answered  us 
by  quoting  the  Mishna:  R.  Dosa  ben  Harchinas  said:  He  who 
stands  before  the  pulpit  to  pray  on  the  first  day  of  the  New 
Year  must  say:  "  Strengthen  us,  O  Lord  our  God,  on  this  day  of 
the  new  moon,  etc."  Does  not  R.  Dosa  state  this  in  order  to 
demonstrate  that  the  day  of  the  new  moon  must  be  explicitly 
mentioned  ?  Nay,  he  simply  means  to  make  the  prayer  condi- 
tional but  not  because  special  mention  must  be  made  of  the  day 
of  the  new  moon.  It  seems  to  us,  that  such  is  truly  the  case, 
because  further  on  the  Boraitha  states,  that  so  did  R.  Dosa  act 
on  all  the  days  of  the  new  moon  throughout  the  year;  but  the 
sages  did  not  coincide  with  him. 

Now,  if  it  be  said,  that  the  prayer  was  made  conditional  it  is 
correct,  (because  there  was  a  doubt  concerning  the  exact  day  at 
each  recurring  new  moon)  but  if  it  be  said,  that  the  new  moon 
must  be  mentioned  in  the  ^vdiyQv  especially,  why  should  the  sages 
not  agree  with  him  ? 

An  objection  was  made:  When  New  Year  falls  on  a  Sabbath, 
Beth  Shammai  say,  ten  benedictions  are  to  be  recited  during 
the  prayer  and  Beth  Hillel  say  "  only  nine."  [The  first  three 
are  benedictions  of  praise,  the  last  three  benedictions  of  thanks  ; 
the  Sabbath  benediction,  and  the  three  pertaining  to  New  Year, 
viz.,  the  one  in  which  God  is  proclaimed  King  (Malkhioth),  the 
one  referring  to  God's  remembrance  of  his  creatures  (Zikhronoth) 
and  the  one  referring  to  the  sounding  of  the  cornet  (Shoph- 
roth),  but  according  to  Beth  Hillel  the  Sabbath  benediction  is 
included  in  those  pertaining  to  the  New  Year,  hence  there  are 
only  nine.]  Now  if  we  say,  that  the  benediction  for  the  new 
moon  must  be  especially  mentioned  in  the  Musaph  (additional 
prayer)  then  according  to  Beth  Shammai,  there  should  be  eleven 
benedictions  in  all. 

Said  R.  Zera:  "  With  the  benediction  of  the  new  moon  it  is 
different ;  because  if  the  new  moon  fall  on  a  Sabbath  no  separate 
benediction  is  made,  but  it  is  included  in  the  Sabbath  benedic- 
tion at  the  morning  and  evening  prayer;  the  benediction  of  the 
new  moon  is  also  mentioned  in  the  Musaph-prayer  in  conjunction 
with  the  new  year  benediction."  Do  Beth  Shammai  indeed 
maintain,  that  if  the  new  moon  fall  on  a  Sabbath  the  benedic- 
tion pertaining  to  it  is  included  in  that  of  Sabbath  ?  Have  we 
not  learned,  that  if  the  new  moon  fall  on  Sabbath,  Beth  Shammai 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  89 

hold,  that  eight  benedictions  must  be  recited  in  the  prayer  and 
Beth  Hillel  only  seven  ?     This  question  is  not  decided. 

Rabba  said:  "  When  I  was  at  the  college  of  R,  Huna  the 
question  arose,  whether  the  benediction  of  the  time*  should  be 
recited  in  the  New  Year  and  Day  of  Atonement  prayers.  Shall 
we  say,  that  because  these  holy  days  only  come  from  time  to 
time,  the  benediction  of  time  should  be  made,  or,  because  the 
Bible  does  not  classify  them  as  festivals,  no  such  benediction 
need  be  made  ?  R.  Huna  could  not  answer  the  question  but 
when  I  subsequently  came  to  R.  Jehudah's  college,  the  latter 
said  he  made  such  a  benediction  even  over  a  new  pumpkin.  I 
then  said  to  him,  that  I  did  not  question  the  right  to  pronounce 
this  benediction  over  anything  whatever,  but  I  wished  to  know 
whether  it  was  compulsory  to  do  this  on  the  New  Year  and  the 
Day  of  Atonement.  He  then  answered  :  Rabh  and  Samuel  both 
said,  that  the  benediction  of  time  must  be  recited  only  for  each 
of  the  three  festivals." 

An  objection  was  made :  It  is  written  [Ecclesiastes  xi.  2] : 
"  Give  a  portion  to  seven,  and  also  to  eight."  R.  Eliezer  said 
that  by  "  seven  "  is  meant  the  seven  days  of  the  creation  and  by 
"eight"  is  meant  the  eight  days  of  the  circumcision.  R. 
Jehoshua  said:  "By  *  seven  *  is  meant  the  seven  days  of  Pass- 
over, by  '  eight '  is  meant  the  eight  days  of  the  feast  of  Taber- 
nacles and  by  '  also  '  is  meant  Pentecost,  New  Year  and  the 
Day  of  Atonement."  May  we  not  assume,  that  by  this  is  meant, 
that  the  benediction  of  time  must  be  pronounced  on  all  these 
festivals  ?  Nay ;  this  simply  means  to  state,  that  benedictions 
should  be  recited  but  no  special  benedictions  are  specified.  It 
seems  to  us,  that  this  is  the  correct  explanation ;  for  the  benedic- 
tion of  time  is  certainly  not  recited  on  every  one  of  the  days  of  the 
festivals  but  only  the  first  day.  This  is  not  the  question,  because 
the  benediction  of  time  must  be  recited  in  the  course  of  the  fes- 
tival ;  if  not  on  the  first  day,  on  the  second  and  so  on.  At  any 
event  this  benediction  must  be  made  over  a  goblet  (of  wine)  ? 
Shall  we  assume,  however,  that  the  above  is  in  support  of  the 
dictum  of  R,  Na'hman,  who  holds  that  the  benediction  of  time 
may  be  recited  even  in  the  market  and  without  a  goblet  ?  This 
is  not  the  question  either;  for  if  a  man  does  not  recite  this  bene- 


*  The  full  text  of  this  benediction  reads  :  "  Blessed  art  Thou,  Lord  our  God, 
King  of  the  Universe,  who  hast  allowed  us  to  live  and  hast  preserved  us  and  hast 
allowed  us  to  reach  this  time." 


90  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

diction  on  one  day,  he  may  do  so  on  the  next  when  he  might 
come  across  a  goblet.  This  would  be  feasible  where  the  three 
(main)  festivals  and  New  Year  are  concerned,  but  how  would  it 
be  with  the  Day  of  Atonement  ?  What  should  the  man  do  ? 
Should  he  pronounce  the  benediction  over  the  goblet  on  the  day 
preceding  the  Day  of  Atonement  before  dusk,  he  would  then 
and  there  usher  in  the  Day  of  Atonement,  and  as  is  well  known, 
he  must  not  eat  or  drink  on  that  day.  Should  he  pronounce  the 
benediction  and  let  the  goblet  stand  until  after  the  Day  of  Atone- 
ment ?  Have  we  not  learned  that  one  must  drink  the  contents 
of  the  goblet  immediately  after  pronouncing  the  benediction; 
otherwise  he  must  not  make  the  benediction  at  all  ?  Should  he 
pronounce  the  benediction  and  then  give  the  goblet  to  a  child  ? 
In  that  case,  there  would  be  fear,  lest  the  child  be  accustomed 
to  drinking  on  that  day,  and  will  continue  to  do  so  when  grown 
and  therefore  the  Halakha  according  to  R.  A'hadoes  not  prevail. 
How,  then,  does  the  Halakha  concerning  the  benediction  of  time 
on  the  New  Year  and  the  Day  of  Atonement  prevail  ?  The 
Rabbis  sent  the  elder  R.  Yeimar  to  R.  Hisda  with  instructions 
to  observe  how  the  latter  proceeded  on  the  eve  of  the  New  Year, 
and  then  to  return  and  report  what  he  had  seen.  When  R. 
Hisda  saw  R.  Yeimar  (and  upon  questioning  him  as  to  his  mis- 
sion was  told  that  he  just  called  to  see  him)  he  said :  If  a  wet 
piece  of  wood  is  lifted,  it  is  obvious,  that  either  the  wood  or  its 
space  is  needed.  (If  thou  camest  thou  certainly  didst  so  with 
an  object.)  At  about  that  time  a  goblet  of  wine  was  brought  to 
R.  Hisda  and  he  pronounced  the  benediction  of  the  day  and  also 
that  of  the  time  over  it. 

The  Halakha  prevails,  that  the  benediction  of  time  must  be 
recited  on  the  New  Year  and  on  the  Day  of  Atonement  and  the 
Halakha  also  prevails  that  if  a  man  forgot  to  recite  it  and  was 
reminded  of  his  negligence  even  in  the  market,  he  may  recite  it 
then  and  there. 

Rabba  said  again:  "  When  I  was  at  the  college  of  R.  Huna, 
the  question  arose  whether  a  young  scholar,  who  fasted  on  the 
day  preceding  Sabbath  must  fast  until  night  or  in  honor  of  the 
Sabbath  break  his  fast  earlier.  R.  Huna  could  not  answer  the 
question.  I  went  to  R.  Jehudah  and  he  could  not  answer  this 
either."  Said  Rabha:  "  Let  us  see  if  we  cannot  decide  this 
question  ourselves  from  what  we  have  learned  in  the  following 
Boraitha:  If  the  fast-day  of  the  ninth  of  Abh  fall  on  a  Friday, 
bread  may  be  brought  to  a  man  just  before  twilight  of  the  size 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  91 

of  an  egg,  and  he  should  eat  it,  in  order  that  he  may  not  enter 
upon  the  observance  of  the  Sabbath  while  still  in  pain." 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  R.  Jehudah  said:  It  once 
happened  that  we  were  sitting  before  R.  Aqiba  on  the  fast  of  the 
ninth  of  Abh,  which  fell  on  a  Friday,  and  just  before  dusk  a  soft- 
boiled  egg  was  brought  to  him  which  he  swallowed  without  even 
salting  it,  and  not  because  he  desired  to  eat  it  in  that  manner; 
but  because  he  wished  to  show  his  disciples  how  the  Halakha  was 
carried  out.  R.  Jose,  however,  said,  that  a  man  must  fast 
through  the  entire  day  until  dusk. 

R.  Jose  said  to  the  sages:  "  Will  ye  not  admit,  that  if  the 
ninth  of  Abh  fall  on  the  day  after  Sabbath,  a  man  must  stop 
eating  while  it  is  yet  day  on  Sabbath?"  and  they  answered 
"  Yea."  "  What  difference  is  there  then  between  entering  in 
upon  the  observance  of  the  Sabbath  while  still  in  pain  and  fin- 
ishing the  Sabbath  under  the  same  conditions  ?"  asked  R.  Jose. 
They  answered:  "  In  the  first  instance  he  fasted  all  day;  but  in 
this  instance  he  had  been  eating  and  drinking  all  day  and  was 
surely  not  in  pain. "  Finally,  however,  Ula  said  that  the  Halakha 
prevailed  according  to  R.  Jose. 

Do  we  then  act  according  to  the  opinion  of  R.  Jose  ?  Have 
we  not  learned,  (concerning  the  Boraitha  in  Tract  Taanith  which 
teaches)  that  Rabbon  Gamaliel  said:  "  On  a  Friday  the  fast  need 
not  be  completed,"  that  upon  the  death  of  Rabbon  Gamaliel, 
R.  Jehoshua  came  and  sought  to  nullify  his  decree  and  R. 
Johanan  ben  Nouri  arose  and  declared:  "  We  see  that  the  body 
always  follows  the  head.  As  long  as  Rabbon  Gamaliel  lived,  we 
abided  by  his  decisions.  Now  that  he  is  dead,  thou  wouldst 
abolish  them.  Jehoshua!  We  will  not  listen  to  thee.  The 
Halakha  prevailed  according  to  R.  Gamaliel  and  so  must  it 
remain,"  and  there  was  none  to  contradict  R.  Johanan  ben 
Nouri.  (Thus  we  see,  that  the  decree  of  R.  Gamaliel  was 
accepted  and  not  that  of  R.  Jose.)  (This  is  no  question !)  In 
the  generation  of  R.  Gamaliel  his  decree  was  followed  and  in  the 
generation  of  R.  Jose,  R.  Jose's  opinion  prevailed. 

And  did  they  really  act  in  accordance  with  R.  Gamaliel's 
opinion  during  his  generation  ?  Have  we  not  learned  that  R. 
Elazar  ben  Zadoc  (who  was  certainly  of  R.  Gamaliel's  day)  said: 
I  am  a  descendant  of  Sanab  of  the  tribe  of  Benjamin  and  it  once 
happened  that  the  ninth  of  Abh  fell  on  a  Sabbath,  so  we  post- 
poned it  until  the  following  day  and  we  did  not  complete  the  fast 
because  it  was  our  holiday.     Thus  we  see,  that  the  fast  was  not 


92  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

completed  because  the  tenth  of  Abh  was  a  holiday  and  besides 
the  fast-day  was  a  postponed  one.  Had  the  ninth  of  Abh  how- 
ever fallen  on  a  week-day,  which  for  them  would  have  been  the 
eve  of  a  festival,  they  would  have  completed  the  fast  neverthe- 
less and  this  is  not  inconformity  with  the  decree  of  R.  Gamaliel  ? 
Said  Rabhina:  How  can  ye  compare  that  festival  to  our  festivals. 
Their  festival  was  not  biblical  and  on  a  festival  which  is  not  bib- 
lical one  may  fast  for  three  or  four  hours  if  he  chooses.  On  a 
biblical  festival,  however,  it  is  not  allowed  to  complete  the  fast. 
R.  Joseph  said:  "  I  did  not  hear  of  this  Halakha. "  Said 
Abayi :  Thou  didst  relate  this  to  us  thyself,  in  reference  to  the 
Boraitha,  that  a  fast-day  must  not  be  ordered  on  the  days  of  the 
first  of  the  month.  (The  occasion  when  R.  Joseph  related  this 
is  mentioned  in  Tract  Taanith.)  Mar  Zutra  related  in  the  name 
of  R.  Huna:  The  Halakha  prevails,  that  one  may  complete  the 
fast  until  dusk. 


CHAPTER   IV. 

REGULATIONS  CONCERNING    THE  OVERSTEPPING  OF   THE  LEGAL  LIMITS 
*      ON     THE      SABBATH,      AND      MEASUREMENTS      OF       THE      SABBATH- 
DISTANCE. 

MISHNA :  If  foes,  or  an  evil  spirit  (a  fit  of  insanity  ?),  caused 
one  to  go  beyond  the  Sabbath  limit,  he  after  recovering  his  free- 
dom must  not  move  further  than  four  ells;  if  the  foes  or  the  fit 
have  carried  him  back  within  the  limit,  it  is  as  if  he  had  not  gone 
beyond  it.  If  they  have  carried  him  into  another  town,  or  into 
a  pen  or  a  fold  for  cattle,  he  according  to  Rabbon  Gamaliel  and 
R.  Eliezer  ben  Azariah,  may  go  about  throughout  the  entire 
extent  (of  the  town,  pen  or  fold).  R.  Joshua  and  R.  Aqiba  main- 
tain, that  he  must  not  move  further  than  four  ells.  It  once  hap- 
pened that  these  four  sages  came  together  from  Parendisim 
(Brundusium  or  Brindisi)  and  their  vessel  was  still  at  sea  on  the 
Sabbath.  Rabbon  Gamaliel  and  R.  Eliezer  ben  Azariah  walked 
about  throughout  the  whole  vessel ;  but  R.  Joshua  and  R.  Aqiba 
did  not  move  beyond  four  ells,  as  they  wished  to  take  upon 
themselves  the  rigid  observance.  Once  these  four  sages  were  on 
board  a  vessel  and  did  not  enter  the  harbor  until  after  dark  (on 
the  eve  of  Sabbath);  so  they  inquired  of  Rabbon  Gamaliel: 
"  What  are  we  to  do  as  to  descending  from  the  vessel  ?  "  He 
answered  them :  Ye  may  descend ;  for  I  observed,  that  we  had 
already  entered  the  limits  of  the  Sabbath-distance  before  dusk. 

GEMARA:  The  Rabbis  taught:  "There  are  three  things, 
which  cause  a  man  to  commit  deeds  against  his  own  will  and 
against  the  will  of  his  Creator,  viz. :  Idolatry,  and  evil  spirits 
and  stress  of  poverty."  [For  what  purpose  do  the  Rabbis  tell 
us  this  ?  In  order,  that  we  may  pray  God  to  deliver  us  from 
those  evils.] 

Three  persons  will  never  come  to  Gehenna :  He  who  suffers 
from  extreme  poverty,  he  who  suffers  with  a  diseased  stomach 
and  one  who  is  oppressed  by  the  government,  and  others  add 
also  the  man  who  is  afflicted  with  a  bad  wife.     [Why  was  the 

93 


94  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

latter  not  mentioned  in  the  first  place  ?  Because  if  one  has  a  bad 
wife  he  should  divorce  her.  Those  however  who  declare  that 
one  who  has  a  bad  wife  will  not  see  Gehenna  refer  to  those, 
who  cannot  afford  to  make  a  settlement  upon  their  wives,  or  to 
those,  who  have  children  and  cannot  divorce  their  wives.  For 
what  purpose  did  the  Rabbis  tell  us  this  ?  In  order,  that  a  man, 
who  is  subject  to  these  misfortunes,  should  accept  them  with 
resignation.] 

Three  classes  of  human  beings  die  in  the  possession  of  their 
power  of  speech,  viz. :  "  A  man  who  is  suffering  from  a  diseased 
stomach,  a  woman  lying  in  and  a  man  suffering  with  dropsy." 
[For  what  purpose  are  we  taught  to  this  effect  ?  In  order  that 
shrouds  may  be  prepared  for  such  people.] 

R.  Na'hman  said  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  If  one  went  out 
beyond  the  Sabbath-limit  and  foes  or  an  evil  spirit  brought  him 
back  within  the  limit,  he  must  not  move  more  than  four  ells 
from  where  he  stands.  Have  we  not  learned  this  in  our  Mishna, 
which  says,  if  foes  or  evil  spirits  carried  him  out  and  then 
brought  him  back  it  is  as  if  he  had  never  gone  out  at  all ;  now  is 
it  not  self-evident  that  if  he  went  out  of  his  own  accord,  he  has 
only  four  ells  of  space  in  which  to  move  ?  We  might  assume 
that  the  Mishna  teaches  us,  if  foes  or  evil  spirits  carried  him  out 
and  he  returned  of  his  own  accord,  he  has  no  more  than  four 
ells  of  space,  but  if  he  went  out  of  his  own  accord  and  foes  or 
evil  spirits  brought  him  back  it  would  be  as  if  he  never  went  out 
at  all,  hence  this  teaching  of  Samuel. 

Rabba  was  asked :  "  How  is  the  law  regarding  one,  who  only 
had  four  ells  to  move  in  and  was  compelled  to  go  out  to  obey 
nature's  call  ?"  and  he  answered:  "  Great  is  the  honor  of  man, 
which  supersedes  even  a  biblical  negative  commandment." 

The  men  of  Neherdai  said:  If  the  man  in  question  is  pru- 
dent, he  will  enter  the  legal  limits,  perform  his  necessities  and 
then  go  on. 

Said  R.  Papa:  "  If  fruit  was  carried  beyond  the  legal  limits 
and  then  even  purposely  brought  back,  the  right  to  move  it 
within  the  limits  is  not  forfeited,  because  the  fruit  certainly  did 
not  go  out  beyond  the  limits  of  their  own  accord."  R.  Joseph 
bar  Shmaya  objected  to  this  statement:  "  R.  Nehemiah  and  R^ 
Eliezer  ben  Jacob  both  said :  The  fruit  which  was  carried  out 
must  not  be  handled  when  brought  back  unless  this  was  done 
unintentionally,  but  if  intentionally,  they  must  not  be  handled?  " 
Concerning  this,  there  is  a  difference  of  opinion  between  Tanaim 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  95 

in  a  Boraitha  elsewhere  (and  R.  Papa  holds  with  the  Tana,  who 
permits  it). 

Said  R.  Na'hman  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  "  If  one  went  out 
and  did  not  know  the  legal  distance  he  could  traverse,  he  may- 
walk  on  for  a  distance  of  two  thousand  medium  steps.  This  will 
constitute  the  lawful  limit  of  the  Sabbath."  He  said  again 
quoting  the  same  authority:  If  one  took  his  Sabbath-rest  in  a 
valley,  and  Gentiles  made  an  enclosure  around  the  valley  on  the 
Sabbath,  he  may  go  two  thousand  ells,  but  he  may  throw  things 
over  the  entire  extent  of  the  valley."  R.  Huna  said:  "  He  may- 
go  two  thousand  ells,  but  may  carry  only  for  a  distance  of  four 
ells."  The  reason  R.  Huna  prohibits  throwing  is  in  precaution, 
lest  the  man  throw  a  thing  outside  of  his  two  thousand  ells  and 
go  after  it. 

Hyya  bar  Rabh,  however,  said :  He  may  go  two  thousand 
ells  and  may  carry  things  inside  of  that  limit. 

Said  R.  Na'hman  to  R.  Huna:  "  Do  not  refute  the  dictum 
of  Samuel;  for  we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha  in  support  of 
Samuel." 

R,  Huna  said:  "  If  one  measured  the  legal  distance  on  a 
Sabbath  and  his  measurement  came  to  an  end  in  one  half  of  a 
court,  he  may  avail  himself  of  that  half  of  the  court  only."  Is 
this  not  self-evident  ?  If  he  ended  his  measurement  in  one  half 
of  a  court,  why  should  he  not  avail  himself  of  that  half  ?  We 
might  assume,  that  if  the  one  half  is  permitted  he  might  be 
tempted  to  use  the  other  half  also,  so  we  are  told  that  this  pre- 
caution is  not  necessary. 

R.  Na'hman  said:  "  Huna  agrees  with  me,  that  if  in  measur- 
ing the  Sabbath-distance,  the  measurement  end  in  the  edge  of  a 
house,  one  may  throw  things  into  the  house  although  he  must 
not  go  into  it  himself,  for  the  edge  of  the  house  is  a  fixed  sign 
for  him  and  will  remind  him,  that  he  must  not  enter  the 
house."  Said  R.  Huna  the  son  of  R.  Nathan:  "  The  necessity 
for  a  precautionary  measure  to  prevent  the  man  from  entering 
the  house  forms  the  subject  of  a  discussion  between  Tanaim  as 
follows:  If  foes  or  an  evil  spirit  have  carried  the  man  into 
another  town,  or  into  a  pen  or  a  fold  for  cattle,  he  may,  accord- 
ing to  Rabbon  Gamaliel  and  R.  Elazar  ben  Azariah,  go  about 
throughout  the  entire  extent  (of  such  a  place);  R.  Joshua  and 
R.  Aqiba,  however,  maintain,  that  he  must  not  move  further 
than  four  ells."  Now,  we  must  assume  that  those  who  permit 
the  traversing  of  the  entire  extent  of  such  places  do  so  because 


96        ^  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

they  do  not  fear  that  the  man  will  traverse  the  whole  valley 
where  those  places  are  situated,  and  those  who  only  allow  four 
ells,  do  so,  because  they  regard  this  precautionary  measure  neces- 
sary. The  same  argument  applies  also  to  throwing,  viz. :  Those 
who  have  no  fear  that  the  man  will  traverse  the  entire  valley, 
permit  throwing  throughout  the  pen  or  fold  where  the  man  is 
ensconced  and  those  who  allow  him  only  four  ells  hold  the  same 
precautionary  measure  necessary  where  throwing  and  going  after 
it  is  concerned. 

Rabh  said  :  "  The  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Gamaliel, 
where  a  pen,  fold  or  ship  is  concerned,"  but  Samuel  said: 
"  Only  as  far  as  a  ship  is  concerned,  but  not  as  regards  a  pen  or 
a  fold."  Thus  we  see  that,  as  to  a  ship,  all  agree  the  Halakha 
prevails  according  to  R.  Gamaliel.  What  is  the  reason  there- 
for ?  Said  Rabba:  "Because  already  before  the  Sabbath  set 
in,  the  man  is  within  the  confines  of  the  ship  and  although  the 
ship  was  involuntarily  carried  out  beyond  the  legal  limits,  the 
man  had  prepared  his  Sabbath-rest  there."  R.  Zera  said,  how- 
ever: "  The  reason  is:  that  the  man  on  board  of  the  ship  did  not 
have  four  ells  to  move  in,  for  the  ship  moves  more  than  four  ells 
every  time  it  lurches  foward,  consequently  he  does  not  come 
under  the  law  of  four  ells  and  may  go  throughout  the  entire 
extent  of  the  ship."  Rabba  rejoined :  "  Thou  referrest  to  a  man 
who  entered  the  ship  while  in  motion.  Concerning  this,  there 
is  no  difference  between  any  of  the  Tanaim ;  even  R.  Aqiba  per- 
mits the  traversing  of  the  entire  ship,  but  they  differ  concerning 
a  man  who  entered  the  ship  while  it  was  anchored." 

Said  R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak :  From  the  Mishna  itself  we  may 
infer,  that  there  was  no  difference  concerning  a  ship  while  in 
motion,  because  it  states,  that  R.  Joshua  and  R.  Aqiba  did  not 
move  beyond  four  ells,  as  they  wished  to  take  upon  themselves 
the  rigid  observance.  Were  it  not  permitted  at  all,  why  should 
it  say,  that  they  wished  to  take  upon  themselves  the  rigid  obser- 
vance, they  would  have  to  obey  the  law  ? 

Said  R.  A'ha  the  son  of  Rabha  to  R.  Ashi :  "  The  Halakha 
prevails  according  to  R.  Gamaliel  where  a  ship  is  concerned." 
Then,  there  must  be  some  who  maintain  that  the  Halakha  does 
not  prevail  according  to  R.  Gamaliel.  Yea,  there  are,  as  we  have 
learned  in  the  following  Boraitha:  Hananiah  the  son  of  R. 
Jehoshua's  brother  said:  "  The  whole  day  that  R.  Gamaliel  and 
R.  Aqiba  were  on  board  the  ship  they  disputed  concerning  this 
Halakha,  and  yesterday  my  uncle  affirmed  the  Halakha  to  the 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  97 

effect,  that  as.  regards  a  ship  at  anchor  it  prevails  according  to 
R.  Gamaliel  and  as  for  a  pen  or  a  fold  it  prevails  according  to  R. 
Aqiba. " 

R.  Hananiah  propounded  a  question :  Is  there  such  a  thing 
as  a  legal  limit  above  ten  spans  from  the  ground  or  not  ?  Con- 
cerning a  pillar  ten  spans  high  and  four  spans  wide  one  side  of 
which  was  outside  of  the  legal  limit  there  is  no  question ;  for  it 
is  equal  to  the  ground  itself,  but  concerning  a  pillar,  that  was 
ten  spans  high  and  less  than  four  spans  wide  or  a  man  who  went 
on  board  of  a  ship,  does  the  law  of  legal  limits  apply  or  not  ? 
R.-  Hosea  answered:  "  Come  and  hear!  It  once  happened  that 
four  sages  came  together  from  Parendisim,  etc.  (see  Mishna).  If 
we  say,  that  the  law  of  legal  limits  applies  to  objects  higher 
than  ten  spans,  then  it  can  be  understood  why  R.  Joshua  and 
R.  Aqiba  took  upon  themselves  the  rigid  observance  (for  con- 
cerning a  ship  in  motion  they  do  not  disagree  with  the  other 
sages),  viz.  :  on  account  of  the  law  of  legal  limits,  but  if  this  law 
does  not  apply  to  a  ship,  what  rigid  observance  could  they  have 
taken  upon  themselves  ?  "  Rejoined  R.  Hananiah :  "  It  may  be 
that  their  ship  was  passing  through  shallow  water,  as  related 
elsewhere  by  Rabha,  and  was  not  over  ten  spans  from  the 
ground." 

Come  and  hear!  The  seven  Halakhas  related  on  a  Sabbath 
morn  in  the  presence  of  R.  Hisda  at  Sura  were  related  on  the 
same  evening  in  the  presence  of  Rabha  at  Pumbaditha.  Who 
could  have  decreed  them  ?  No  one,  but  Elijah?  Hence  we  see, 
that  there  is  no  such  thing  as  legal  limits  above  ten  spans  from 
the  ground  ?  Nay.  It  may  be  that  those  Halakhas  were  trans- 
mitted from  one  school  to  the  other  by  Joseph  the  evil  One,  who 
did  not  observe  the  Sabbath. 

Come  and  hear!  If  one  say:  I  wish  to  be  a  Nazarite  at  the 
coming  of  the  Messiah,  he  may  drink  wine  on  a  Sabbath  or  on  a 
festival  but  must  not  do  so  during  the  week-days.  (For  Messiah 
is  liable  to  come  at  any  time.)  The  Boraitha  would  be  correct 
if  we  assume,  that  there  is  a  legal  limit  above  ten  spans  from  the 
ground,  because  Messiah  will  then  not  come  on  the  Sabbath  or 
on  a  festival,  but  if  there  is  no  legal  limit  above  ten  spans,  the 
man  should  not  drink  wine  even  on  those  days,  because  the 
Messiah  might  come.  In  that  case  it  is  different :  for  it  is  writ- 
ten [Malachi  iii.  23]  :  "  Behold,  I  send  unto  you  Elijah  the  pro- 
phet before  the  coming  of  the  day  of  the  Lord,  the  great  and  the 
dreadful."     Hence,  if  Elijah  did  not  come  on  the  day  preceding 

VOL.   Ill, — 7 


98  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

Sabbath,  he  may  drink  on  the  Sabbath.  If  this  js  so,  then  he 
may  drink  on  a  week-day  also  providing  Elijah  did  not  come  on 
the  preceding  day.  It  might  be  assumed,  however,  that  Elijah 
had  already  come  and  appeared  before  the  high  court  and  for 
that  reason  the  man  should  not  drink  on  any  day,  lest  Elijah 
had  already  come,  then  this  would  apply  also  to  the  Sabbath  ? 
There  is  a  tradition  among  Israelites  that  it  is  an  assured  fact, 
that  Elijah  will  not  come  on  the  eve  of  a  Sabbath  or  a  festival. 
If  that  is  so,  why  should  the  man  not  be  permitted  to  drink  wine 
on  the  eve  of  Sabbath  ?  Because  although  Elijah  will  not  come, 
the  Messiah  himself  might  come. 

Thus  it  must  be  assumed,  that  if  there  is  a  legal  limit  above 
ten  spans,  a  man  who  wishes  to  be  a  Nazarite  on  the  day  of  the 
coming  of  the  Messiah  should  be  permitted  to  drink  wine  not 
only  on  Sabbath  and  the  festivals  but  also  on  the  day  following 
Sabbath,  because  Elijah  cannot  come  on  the  Sabbath  ?  The 
sages  who  prohibited  a  man  of  that  kind  to  drink  wine  on  a  week- 
day were  themselves  in  doubt  as  to  the  validity  of  a  legal  limit 
above  ten  spans  and  only  made  it  more  rigid  for  the  man  on 
general  principles. 

"  And  did  not  enter  the  harbor  until  after  darky  etc.  It  was 
taught  in  a  Boraitha,  that  R.  Gamaliel  had  a  telescope,  through 
which  he  could  see  for  a  distance  of  two  thousand  ells  on  land 
and  on  sea.  If  a  man  wishes  to  measure  the  depth  of  a  valley, 
he  should  use  one  of  those  telescopes  and  if  he  should  wish  to 
measure  a  tree,  he  should  observe  his  shadow,  measure  himself 
and  his  shadow  and  the  shadow  of  the  tree  and  calculate  the 
proportion. 

Nehemiah  the  son  of  R.  Hanilayi  was  engrossed  in  thinking 
about  a  Halakha  and  inadvertently  stepped  out  beyond  the  legal 
limits.  Said  R.  Hisda  to  R.  Na'hman  :  "  Thy  disciple  Nehemiah 
is  in  trouble,"  and  R.  Na'hman  answered:  "  Make  him  a  parti- 
tion with  men  and  let  him  come  back," 

R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak  sat  behind  Rabha  who  sat  in  the  pres- 
ence of  R.  Na'hman.  Said  R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak  to  Rabha: 
"  How  was  the  case  when  R.  Hisda  asked  R.  Na'hman  concern- 
ing Nehemiah  who  had  overstepped  the  legal  limits  ?  Shall  we 
say,  that  there  were  sufficient  men  on  hand  who  had  made  an 
Erub  at  the  limits  and  could  therefore  go  out  to  Nehemiah  then 
the  question  was  merely  whether  the  Halakha  prevailed  according 
to  R.  Gamaliel,  who  said,  that  where  there  is  a  partition,  even  if 
a  man  had  not  declared  his  intention  to  rest  there  on  the  Sab- 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  99 

bath,  he  may  avail  himself  of  it  and  traverse  its  entire  extent,  or 
that  there  were  not  sufficient  men  who  had  made  an  Erub  who 
could  reach  Nehemiah  and  the  question  presented  itself,  whether 
the  Halakha  prevailed  according  to  R.  Eliezer,  that  if  a  man  went 
out  two  ells  beyond  the  limits  he  may  return,  and  Nehemiah  did 
not  go  out  further  than  that."  Is  this  not  self-evident  ?  For  if 
there  were  sufficient  men  to  reach  Nehemiah,  why  did  R.  Hisda 
ask  R.  Na'hman  ?  Rabh  had  already  decided  that  the  Halakha 
mentioned  prevailed  according  to  R.  Gamaliel  and  for  R.  Hisda 
Rabh  was  the  final  authority  ?  The  question  was  merely  then, 
whether  R.  Hisda  could  make  a  partition  with  men  who  had  not 
made  an  Erub,  at  the  end  of  two  ells  beyond  the  limit,  which 
according  to  R.  Eliezer  was  free  to  everybody,  so  that  Nehemiah 
who  had  gone  further  than  two  ells  beyond  the  limit  could  avail 
himself  of  that  partition  and  return. 

R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak  objected  to  the  above,  addressing 
Rabha:  "  Have  we  not  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  *  If  the  wall  of  a 
booth  fell  in  on  a  festival,  one  must  not  use  a  man,  or  an  animal 
or  vessels  or  put  up  a  bed  and  cover  it  with  a  sheet  in  order  to 
fill  in  the  gap,  because  a  temporary  tent  must  not  be  erected  on 
a  festival  to  commence  with  and  so  much  less  on  a  Sabbath  ? '  " 
Answered  Rabha :  Thou  quotest  this  Boraitha  but  I  can  quote 
another  which  states:  "  A  man  can  make  a  wall  of  his  comrade, 
that  he  may  be  able  to  eat  a  meal  or  drink  or  sleep  in  a  booth 
(the  wall  of  which  had  fallen  in) ;  he  may  also  put  up  a  bed  and 
cover  it  with  a  sheet  to  keep  the  sun  off  from  a  corpse  or  from 
food." 

These  two  Boraithas  are  contradictory  to  each  other  ?  This 
presents  no  difficulty.  One  of  them  is  according  to  the  opinion 
of  R.  Eliezer  and  the  other  according  to  the  opinion  of  the  sages. 

It  happened  once,  that  some  baldachin-makers  brought  in 
water  through  a  partition  formed  by  men.  Samuel  punished 
them,  saying:  "This  was  done  in  an  emergency  where  a  man 
had  overstepped  the  legal  limits  accidentally  but  ye  do  this  '  pur- 
posely.' " 

It  once  happened  that  flasks  of  wine  were  thrown  out  of  Rab- 
ha's  house  on  the  road  in  the  city  of  Mehuzza.  When  Rabha 
came  from  his  college,  a  number  of  men  followed  him  as  usual, 
and  thus  relying  upon  the  partition  formed  by  them,  someone 
carried  the  flasks  back  into  the  house.  Next  Sabbath,  the  same 
thing  happened,  but  Rabha  would  not  permit  the  flasks  to  be 
carried  back  to  the  house,  saying,  that  this  time  it  might  seem  as 


loo  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

if  it  were  done  on  purpose.  In  like  manner  straw  was  brought 
into  the  house  of  Levi,  hay  to  the  house  of  Zera,  and  water 
into  the  house  of  R.  Shimi  bar  Hyya. 

MISHNA:  One  who  is  authorized  to  go  beyond  the  pre- 
scribed limit  on  important  business  pertaining  to  public  or  private 
safety  and  is  told,  that  "it  is  already  done,"  is  at  liberty  to  go 
two  thousand  ells  in  any  direction.  If  he  was  still  within  the 
prescribed  limit,  it  is  as  if  he  had  not  gone  out  at  all,  for  all  those 
who  go  forth  on  an  errand  of  safety,  are  permitted  to  return  to 
their  homes  on  Sabbath. 

GEMARA:  What  is  meant  by  "if  he  was  still  within  the 
prescribed  limit  "  ?  Said  Rabha:  "  This  means  to  impart  to  us, 
that  if  he  had  not  gone  out  beyond  the  limit,  it  was  as  if  he  had 
not  left  his  house.  Is  this  not  self-evident  ?  I  would  say,  that 
if  he  had  gone  out  of  his  house  he  forfeits  his  right  to  go  two 
thousand  ells  in  any  direction  he  chooses,  and  we  are  told,  that 
such  is  not  the  case."  R.  Shimi  bar  Hyya  however  said:  "  This 
means  to  state,  that  if  the  man  had  already  gone  beyond  the 
usual  limit  but  had  not  yet  gone  out  of  the  additional  limit 
allowed  him  by  the  sages  for  the  errand,  it  is  regarded  as  if  he 
had  not  overstepped  his  own  ordinary  limit."  Upon  what  point 
do  they  differ  ?  Upon  the  permissibility  of  one  end  of  a  limit 
including  another  established  limited  distance  adjoining  it.  The 
latter  holds,  that  this  point  may  be  depended  upon,  while  the 
former  holds  that  it  cannot. 

''For  all  those  who  go  forth  on  an  errand  of  safety,''  etc.  Even 
such  as  go  beyond  four  thousand  ells  ?  In  the  first  part  of  the 
Mishna  it  is  stated  that  they  only  have  two  thousand  ells  in  each 
direction  ?  What  question  is  this  ?  This  is  a  case  of  where  a 
man  goes  forth  on  an  errand  of  safety,  and  on  such  an  errand  it 
may  be  permitted  to  go  beyond  four  thousand  ells.  If  there  is  a 
question  it  can  be  made  upon  the  following  Mishna:  "  Those 
who  go  to  assist  others  in  case  of  conflagration,  or  of  an  attack 
of  robbers,  or  of  flood,  or  of  rescuing  people  from  the  ruins  of  a 
falling  building  are  considered  for  the  time  being  as  inhabitants 
of  that  place,  and  may  go  thence  on  the  Sabbath,  two  thousand 
ells  in  every  direction."  Thus  here  it  is  stated,  that  they  may 
go  only  two  thousand  ells  and  our  Mishna  does  not  limit  the  dis- 
tance ?  Said  R,  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  Our  Mishna 
means  to  imply,  that  they  may  even  return  to  their  homes  with 
all  their  implements  of  war,  as  we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  In 
former  times,  they  used  to  deposit  their  arms  in  a  house  nearest 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  loi 

to  the  fortifications  of  the  city.  Once  it  happened,  however, 
that  the  enemy  was  informed  of  the  fact,  that  the  Israelites  had 
stored  their  arms,  so  they  pursued  them  and  in  endeavoring  to 
enter  the  house  to  gain  possession  of  their  arms,  the  IsraeHtes 
trampled  more  of  their  own  to  death  than  were  killed  by  the 
enemy.  Since  that  time  it  was  ordered  to  carry  their  arms  back 
to  their  homes. 

R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak  however  said:  This  presents  no  diffi- 
culty: If  the  Israelites  are  victorious,  they  have  only  two  thou- 
sand ells  in  which  they  may  go  in  every  direction,  but  if  they  are 
defeated,  they  may  escape  as  far  as  possible. 

R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  If  enemies  besieged 
cities  inhabited  by  Israelites,  the  latter  must  not  go  outside  of 
the  cities  with  their  arms  and  must  not  violate  the  Sabbath,  pro- 
viding the  enemies  were  there  on  account  of  money-matters;  but 
if  they  were  there  for  the  purpose  of  slaughter,  the  Sabbath  may 
be  violated  and  arms  be  carried  on  Sabbath.  If  a  city  near  the 
boundary  of  the  country  is  besieged  even  on  account  of  a  trivial 
business  matter  such  as  straw  or  hay,  arms  may  be  carried  and 
the  Sabbath  may  be  violated.  Said  R.  Joseph  bar  Minyumi 
in  the  name  of  R.  Na'hman:  "  Babylon  is  considered  as  a  city 
near  the  boundary,"  and  this  dictum  was  explained  to  mean  the 
city  of  Neherdai  (which  was  surrounded  on  one  side  by  Gentile 
neighbors  and  on  the  other  side  by  Israelites). 

MISHNA:  If  a  man  sit  down  by  the  road-side  (towards  dark 
on  the  eve  of  Sabbath),  then  gets  up  and  observes,  that  he  is 
near  a  town,  he  must  not  enter  the  town  ;  for  it  had  not  been  his 
intention  to  do  this.  Such  is  the  dictum  of  R.  Meir;  but  R. 
Jehudah  permits  him  to  enter.  R.  Jehudah  said:  "  It  once 
happened  that  R.  Tarphon  entered  a  town  although  it  was  not 
his  intention  to  do  so." 

One  who  falls  asleep  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath  while  on  the  road 
and  thus  knows  not  that  night  has  set  in,  is  permitted  (upon 
awaking)  to  go  two  thousand  ells  in  any  direction.  Such  is 
the  decree  of  R.  Johanan  ben  Nouri ;  but  the  sages  hold,  that  he 
has  only  the  right  to  move  four  ells.  R.  Eliezer  said:  "  And  he 
himself  forms  the  centre  of  the  four  ells."  R.  Jehudah  however 
said:  He  can  go  four  ells  in  whichever  direction  he  pleases.  Still 
R.  Jehudah  admitted,  that  if  the  man  had  made  his  choice  (which 
direction  to  take)  he  must  not  afterwards  (change  his  mind  and) 
go  in  another  direction.  Should  there  be  two  persons  so  situ- 
ated {i.e.,  form  the  centre  of  the  four  ells  they  are  allowed  to 


I02  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

move  in),  and  part  of  the  four  ells  permitted  to  one  is  within  the 
limits  of  the  other,  they  may  meet  and  take  their  meals  together 
in  the  centre  of  their  joint  space,  provided  that  neither  exceed 
his  own  limits  by  going  into  those  of  his  neighbor.  If  there 
are  three  persons  so  situated  and  part  of  the  four  ells  occupied 
by  the  middle  one  forms  part  of  the  space  belonging  to  each  of 
the  other  two,  the  one  situated  in  the  middle  is  at  liberty  to 
meet  each  of  the  others,  or  each  of  the  others  may  meet  him ; 
but  the  two  on  each  side  of  him  must  not  meet  each  other.  Said 
R.  Simeon:  What  can  this  be  compared  to?  Three  courts 
opening  into  each  other  and  also  opening  into  public  ground. 
If  the  two  outer  courts  have  combined  in  an  Erub  with  the  middle 
one,  one  is  at  liberty  to  carry  things  between  the  middle  court 
and  each  of  the  outer  ones,  but  between  the  two  outer  courts 
one  must  not  carry  or  convey  anything. 

GEMARA:  We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  R.  Jehudah 
said:  It  once  happened  that  R.  Tarphon  while  on  the  road  was 
overtaken  by  dusk  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath  and  stayed  outside  of 
the  town  over  night.  In  the  morning  the  cattle-herders  met  him 
and  said:  "  Rabbi,  the  town  is  not  far  distant.  Enter."  So 
he  entered  the  town,  went  into  the  college  and  lectured  all  day. 
Said  R.  Aqiba  to  R.  Jehudah:  Wouldst  thou  cite  this  as  an 
example  ?  Perhaps  it  had  been  the  intention  of  R.  Tarphon  to 
enter  the  town  previously  {i.e.,  he  was  within  two  thousand  ells 
of  it)  or  the  college  was  included  with  the  legal  limits  allowed 
R.  Tarphon. 

"  Such  is  the  decree  of  R.  Johanan  ben  Nouri."  Rabba  pro- 
pounded a  question:  What  is  the  intent  of  R.  Johanan's  decree  ? 
Does  he  hold  that  things  having  no  particular  owner,  if  situated 
at  a  certain  place  on  the  Sabbath,  acquire  the  right  to  their  rest- 
ing-place {i.e.,  may  be  carried  for  a  distance  of  two  thousand 
ells  in  any  direction)  ?  And  the  Mishna  should  have  com- 
menced by  citing  an  instance  of  this  kind.  Why  does  it  give  the 
instance  of  a  man  who  had  fallen  asleep,  whom  the  sages  con- 
sider the  same  as  a  thing  having  no  particular  owner  ?  In  order 
to  show  the  firmness  of  the  sages,  who,  though  agreeing  that  the 
man  when  awake,  is  entitled  to  two  thousand  ells  in  each  direc- 
tion, whence  we  might  assume  that  he  is  entitled  to  the  same 
privilege  when  asleep,  we  are  told  that  such  is  not  the  case ;  or, 
in  order  to  show  that  R.  Johanan  ben  Nouri  does  not  hold,  that 
a  thing  having  no  particular  owner  acquires  the  right  to  be 
carried  for  a  distance  of  two  thousand  ells  in  every  direction,  but 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  103 

that  a  man  when  asleep  is  entitled  to  this  privilege,  merely 
because  he  is  entitled  to  it  when  awake. 

Said  R.  Joseph:  "  Come  and  hear:  We  have  learned  that  if 
rain  had  fallen  on  the  eve  of  a  festival,  the  rain-water  acquires 
the  right  of  (being  carried)  two  thousand  ells  in  every  direction ; 
but  if  rain  had  fallen  on  a  biblical  festival,  the  rain-water  has  the 
same  right  (of  being  carried  for  the  same  distance)  as  the  inhabi- 
tants of  the  place  where  it  had  fallen  (have  the  right  of  walk- 
ing)." Now,  if  we  say,  that  R.  Johanan  holds,  that  a  thing 
having  no  particular  owner,  if  situated  at  a  certain  place  on 
Sabbath,  acquires  the  right  of  (being  carried)  two  thousand  ells 
in  every  direction,  then  the  Boraitha  is  in  conformity  with  his 
opinion;  but  if  we  say,  that  he  does  not  hold  to  that  effect, 
according  to  whose  opinion  is  the  Boraitha,  certainly  not  accord- 
ing to  that  of  the  sages  ? 

Said  R.  Jacob  bar  Idi  in  the  name  of  R.  Jehoshua  ben  Levi : 
"The  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Johanan  ben  Nouri." 
Said  R.  Zera  to  R.  Jacob:  "  Didst  thou  hear  R.  Jehoshua  him- 
self declare  this,  or  dost  thou  merely  infer  this  from  another 
ruling  made  by  him?"  And  he  answered:  "I  heard  him 
declare  it."  What  ruling  could  R.  Zera  have  referred  to,  which 
R.  Jehoshua  ben  Levi  had  made  ?  The  ruling  made  by  R. 
Jehoshua  ben  Levi  elsewhere,  that  the  Halakha  always  prevails 
according  to  the  Tana,  who  makes  the  laws  regarding  Erubin 
more  lenient.  Why  was  it  necessary  for  R.  Jehoshua  to  make 
both  statements?  Said  R.  Zera:  It  was  necessary;  for  had  he 
said  merely,  that  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Johanan 
ben  Nouri,  we  might  assume  that  it  always  prevails  thus, 
whether  it  be  more  lenient  or  more  rigorous  than  another;  hence 
we  are  told,  that  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  the  one  who 
is  the  more  lenient  regarding  the  laws  of  Erubin. 

Let  him  say  then,  that  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  the 
one  who  is  the  more  lenient  with  the  laws  of  Erubin,  and  that 
will  cover  the  case  of  R.  Johanan  who  is  more  lenient.  Nay;  it 
was  also  necessary  to  make  the  statement  regarding  R.  Johanan 
exclusively;  because  it  might  be  assumed  that  the  Halakha  pre- 
vails according  to  the  more  lenient  interpretation  where  one 
opinion  is  opposed  by  the  opinion  of  another  individual,  or  where 
the  opinion  of  a  number  (of  sages)  is  opposed  by  the  opinion  of 
another  number  (of  sages),  but  if  the  opinion  of  one  is  opposed 
by  that  of  a  number,  the  latter  opinion  prevails  whether  it  be 
lenient  or  rigorous ;  hence  we  are  told  that  the  opinion  of  R. 


I04  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Johanan  ben  Nouri  prevailed  although  opposed  by  a  number  of 
sages,  and  from  this  the  rule  is  adduced  that  as  far  as  the  laws 
of  Erubin  are  concerned  the  more  lenient  Halakha  prevails  even 
if  the  opinion  of  one  is  opposed  by  a  number  (of  sages). 

R.  Papa,  however,  said:  "Both  statements  made  by  R. 
Jehoshua  ben  Levi  are  necessary,  because,  had  he  simply  stated, 
that  the  Halakha  of  the  more  lenient  Tana  only  prevails,  we 
might  have  assumed  that  he  referred  only  to  Erubin  of  courts 
and  not  to  Erubin  of  legal  limits ;  therefore  he  also  stated  the 
case  of  R.  Johanan  ben  Nouri  in  order  to  demonstrate  that  he 
referred  also  to  Erubin  of  legal  limits." 

R.  Ashi  said:  "  Both  statements  made  by  R.  Jehoshua  ben 
Levi  are  necessary  because,  had  he  only  made  the  statement 
concerning  the  Halakha  of  the  more  lenient  Tana,  it  might  have 
been  assumed  that  he  referred  to  an  Erub  that  had  been  made 
for  a  number  of  Sabbaths  and  had  gradually  dwindled,  but  not 
to  such  Erubin  as  had  been  made  afresh ;  hence  he  also  made 
the  statement  concerning  R.  Johanan  ben  Nouri  in  order  to 
emphasize  the  fact  that  the  more  lenient  Halakhoth  prevail  even 
in  the  instances  of  newly  made  Erubin."* 

R.  Jacob  and  R.  Zreiqa  both  said:  "  In  all  instances  where 
R.  Aqiba  differs  with  an  individual  the  Halakha  prevails  accord- 
ing to  R.  Aqiba.  In  all  instances  where  R,  Jose  differs  even 
with  a  number  of  sages  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R. 
Jose,  and  in  all  instances  where  Rabbi  differs  with  an  individual, 
the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  Rabbi."  For  what  purpose  is 
this  statement  made  ?  Shall  we  act  accordingly  or  is  this 
merely  a  vague  statement  ?  R.  Assi  said:  "  Yea;  we  must  act 
accordingly.  Where  R.  Aqiba  differs  with  an  individual  we 
must  act  in  accordance  with  R.  Aqiba's  opinion ;  where  R.  Jose 
differs  with  a  number  of  sages  we  must  act  in  conformity  with 
R.  Jose's  opinion."  R.  Hyya  bar  Abba,  however,  said:  R. 
Jacob  and  R.  Zreiqa  did  not  mean  to  establish  the  rule,  that  the 
Halakha  prevails  according  to  the  opinions  of  R.  Aqiba,  R.  Jose 
and  Rabbi,  but  that  they  should  be  given  preference  wherever 
possible  over  their  opponents  {i.e.,  if,  for  instance,  a  man  asks 

*  The  following  paragraphs  in  the  original  Gemara  are  devoted  to  arguments  of 
R.  Papa  and  R.  Ashi  concerning  the  adduction  of  the  dififerences  quoted  by  the  two 
Rabbis  in  the  preceding  paragraphs  and  quote  the  Boraithoth  further  on.  Hence  we 
have  omitted  them,  and  the  reader  will  understand  this  from  what  follows.  This 
rule  is  made  by  us  for  the  benefit  of  the  Hebrew  scholar  and  will  apply  to  all  such 
omissions  later. 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  105 

concerning  a  decree  of  R.  Jose,  it  may  be  declared  valid,  but  it 
should  not  be  taught  as  a  rule  in  the  colleges  that  when  a  num- 
ber of  sages  decide  against  R.  Jose  the  Halakha  nevertheless 
prevails  according  to  his  opinion).  R.  Jose  bar  R.  Hanina, 
however,  said  :  (Not  even  this  should  be  done.)  R.  Jacob  and 
R.  Zreiqa  merely  assert,  that  it  seems  to  them  that  the  Halakhas 
should  prevail  as  stated,  but  not  that  this  should  be  maintained 
as  a  general  rule  (and  if  one  inclined  to  their  opinion,  he  cannot 
be  accounted  wrong). 

In  the  same  manner  as  there  is  a  divergence  of  opinions 
concerning  the  statement  of  R.  Jacob  and  R.  Zreiqa,  so  is  there 
also  a  dispute  concerning  the  following  statement  of  R.  Jacob 
bar  Idi  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan :  In  all  instances  where  R. 
Meir  and  R.  Jehudah  differ,  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to 
R.  Jehudah,  wherever  R.  Jehudah  and  R.  Jose  differ  the  Hala- 
kha prevails  according  to  R.  Jose,  and  so  much  more  when 
R.  Meir  and  R.  Jose  differ  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R. 
Jose,  for  if  R.  Jehudah  is  given  preference  over  R.  Meir,  and  R. 
Jose  over  R.  Jehudah,  then  certainly  R.  Jose  has  preference 
over  R.  Meir. 

Said  R.  Assi:  "  From  this  I  can  infer,  that  where  R.  Jose 
and  R.  Simeon  differ,  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Jose, 
for  R.  Abba  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan,  that  wherever  R. 
Simeon  and  R.  Jehudah  differ,  the  opinion  of  R.  Jehudah  pre- 
vails." As  a  matter  of  course  if  R.  Jehudah  is  given  preference 
over  R.  Simeon,  R.  Jose  is  certainly  more  competent  authority 
than  R.  Simeon. 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question:  "  How  is  it,  when 
R.  Meir  and  R.  Simeon  differ  ?  "    This  question  is  not  decided.* 

R.  Mesharshia  said:  All  these  rules  are  of  n©  account  {i.e., 
decisions  should  be  made  according  to  the  dictates  of  one's  own 
understanding);  for  Rabh  never  acted  according  to  such  rules. f 

*  Wherever  a  question  remains  undecided  in  the  Talmud,  the  letters  Taph,  lod, 
Quph,  Vav,  are  inserted,  and  some  scholars  maintain,  that  this  means  "  Theiqu," 
i.e.,  "So  shall  it  remain."  Others,  however,  maintain  that  the  letters  stand  for: 
"  Tishbi  =  Elijah  the  prophet,  letharetz  =  will  answer,  Qushiuth  =  contradictions, 
Veabaioth  =  and  questions. 

f  This  statement  of  R.  Mesharshia  applies  to  the  whole  Talmud  from  the  fact 
that,  although  the  authorities  quoted  above  are  among  the  greatest  of  the  Mishna  and 
the  Gemara,  the  interpretation  of  all  Halakoth  should  be  based  upon  common  sense, 
and  in  connection  with  this  we  would  wish  to  call  the  attention  of  the  reader  to  the 
assertion  made  in  our  article,  "  What  is  the  Talmud  ?"  contained  in  our  "  The  Pen- 
tateuch, Its  Languages,  Character,  etc.,"  and  in  our  article  entitled  "  Two  Questions 


io6  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  "  Things  belonging  to 
non-Israelites,  if  situated  at  a  certain  place  on  the  Sabbath,  do 
not  acquire  the  right  to  their  resting-place."  According  to 
whose  opinion  is  this  statement  ?  Shall  we  say,  according  to  the 
opinion  of  the  sages  ?  This  is  self-evident ;  for  they  hold,  that 
even  things  having  no  particular  owner  do  not  acquire  the  right 
to  their  resting-place,  and  so  much  more  things  belonging  to  a 
Gentile,  which  accordingly  possess  an  owner.  Hence  we  must 
say,  that  this  is  even  in  accordance  with  the  opinion  of  R. 
Johanan  ben  Nouri,  who  says,  that  things  having  no  particular 
owner  do  acquire  the  right  to  their  resting-place  (but  those, 
which  have  an  owner,  unless  he  be  an  Israelite,  do  not). 

An  objection  was  made:  R.  Simeon  ben  Elazar  said:  "  Ves- 
sels which  an  Israelite  borrows  from  a  Gentile  on  a  festival,  or 
which  he  has  lent  to  a  Gentile  and  receives  in  return  on  a  festi- 
val, also  vessels  and  treasures  which  were  within  the  legal  limits 
on  the  eve  of  Sabbath,  may  be  carried  two  thousand  ells  in 
every  direction ;  but  if  a  Gentile  brought  fruit  on  a  Sabbath  from 
beyond  the  legal  limits,  it  must  not  be  moved  from  its  place." 
Now  if  it  be  said,  that  R.  Johanan  ben  Nouri  holds,  that  things 
belonging  to  a  Gentile  acquire  a  right  to  their  resting-place,  then 
R.  Simeon  ben  Elazar's  statement  is  in  accordance  with  the 
opinion  of  this  R.  Johanan;  but  if  the  latter  holds,  that  things 
belonging  to  a  Gentile  do  not  acquire  a  right  to  their  resting- 
place,  according  to  whose  opinion  is  the  statement  of  R.  Simeon ; 
not  according  to  that  of  R.  Johanan  nor  to  that  of  the  sages  ? 
Nay;  R.  Johanan  may  hold,  that  things  belonging  to  a  Gentile 
do  acquire  the  right  to  their  resting-place  and  still  Samuel  quoted 
the  opinion  of  the  sages;  but  as  for  this  being  self-evident,  it  is 
not  so,  for  it  might  be  assumed  that  a  precautionary  measure 
should  be  made  in  the  case  of  a  Gentile  owner  in  order  to  put 
them  on  a  par  with  vessels  of  an  Israelite  owner;  therefore  we 
are  told  that  such  a  precautionary  measure  is  not  necessaiy.  R. 
Hyya  bar  Abhin,  however,  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan,  that 
things  belonging  to  Gentiles  do  acquire  the  right  to  their  resting- 
place,  as  a  precautionary  measure  for  things  belonging  to  Israel- 
ites. 

It  once  happened  that  rams  were  brought  into  the  city  of 


concerning  the  Talmud  and  Schulchau  Aruch,"  published  in  the  Americcui  Israelite, 
1894,  that  "  no  one  has  any  right  to  establish  a  code  based  upon  Halakhoth  of  the 
Talmud." 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  107 

Mabrakhta  on  a  festival.  Rabha  allowed  the  inhabitants  of  the 
city  of  Mehuzza  (which  adjoined  the  other  city)  to  buy  them  and 
take  them  home.  Said  Rabhina  to  Rabha:  "  Why  didst  thou 
permit  this;  because  thou  boldest  to  the  opinion  of  Samuel, 
that  things  belonging  to  Gentiles  do  not  acquire  the  right  to 
their  resting-place,  but  the  rule  is,  that  where  Samuel  and  R. 
Johanan  differ,  the  opinion  of  R.  Johanan  prevails  and  R. 
Johanan  holds,  that  things  belonging  to  Gentiles  do  acquire  the 
right  to  their  resting-place  on  Sabbath  ?" 

Thereupon  Rabha  said:  "  Let  the  rams  be  sold  to  the  inhab- 
itants of  Mabrakhta;  for  that  city  is  to  the  rams  as  four  ells 
(being  equal  to  the  case  of  where  a  man  was  brought  into  a  pen 
or  a  fold  against  his  will  and  may  in  consequence  traverse  the 
entire  extent  of  the  pen  or  fold,  as  if  they  were  only  four  ells)." 

R.  Hyya  taught:  "  If  the  legal  Hmits  of  two  cities  termi- 
nated in  the  water  and  a  partition  was  made  to  denote  the  place 
where  they  met,  by  means  of  a  fishing-net,  it  is  not  sufficient; 
for  an  iron  partition  is  necessary  in  order  that  the  water  of  both 
limits  should  not  mingle."  R.  Jose  bar  Hanina  laughed  at  this 
teaching.  Why  did  he  laugh  at  it  ?  Because  Rabh  decreed, 
that  the  sages  were  very  lenient  with  all  things  pertaining  to 
water  (see  page  24). 

"  But  the  sages  hold,  that  he  has  only  the  right  to  move  four 
ells.''  Is  R.  Jehudah  not  of  the  same  opinion  as  the  first  Tana  ? 
Said  Rabha:  Nay;  they  differ  to  the  extent  of  eight  square  ells. 
The  sages  hold  that  he  may  go  four  ells  in  every  direction,  that 
is,  in  all,  eight  square  ells ;  but  R.  Jehudah  says,  that  he  may  go 
only  four  ells  in  one  direction.  We  have  also  learned  to  this 
effect  in  aBoraitha:  "  He  may  move  in  eight  square  ells,  so  saith 
R.  Meir. "  Said  Rabha:  "  They  differ  as  to  the  extent  that  the 
man  may  traverse,  but  as  for  carrying  things  all  agree,  that  he 
may  do  so  only  for  a  distance  of  four  ells." 

The  questions  seem  to  be  centred  in  four  ells.  Whence  do 
we  derive  these  four  ells  ?  As  we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha : 
From  the  passage  [Exodus  xvi.  29]:  "  Remain  ye,  every  man 
in  his  place,"  etc.  By  "  his  place"  is  meant  the  size  of  his 
body.  What  is  the  size  ?  Three  ells,  and  one  ell  additional  in 
case  he  wishes  to  stretch  his  limbs.  So  said  R.  Meir.  R.  Jehu- 
dah, however,  said:  "  Three  ells  are  allowed  for  the  size  of  the 
body  and  an  additional  ell  in  case  he  wishes  to  take  a  thing  at 
his  feet  and  place  it  underneath  his  head."  What  is  the  point 
of  variance  between  the  two  ?    According  to  one,  the  four  ells 


io8  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

must  be  exactly  measured,  and  according  to  the  other,  an  approx- 
imate distance  only  is  necessary. 

R.  Mesharshia  said  to  his  son:  "  When  thou  goest  to  see  R. 
Papa,  ask  him  whether  the  four  ells  are  measured  proportionately 
to  the  size  of  the  man  concerned  or  whether  they  are  the  holy 
ells  {i.e.,  ells  measuring  six  spans).  If  he  should  tell  thee,  that 
the  holy  ells  are  meant,  what  should  a  man  do  who  is  as  tall  as 
Og,  King  of  Bashan,  and  if  he  should  tell  thee,  that  the  propor- 
tionate ells  are  meant,  why  were  the  four  ells  not  included  in  the 
Boraitha,  which  teaches,  that  all  things  should  be  reckoned 
according  to  the  proportionate  ells." 

When  the  son  of  R.  Mesharshia  came  to  R.  Papa  he  was 
told:  "  If  we  were  to  learn  the  Talmud  in  this  manner  {i.e.,  if 
we  were  so  particular  as  to  details)  we  would  never  be  able  to 
learn  anything.  Certainly  proportionate  ells  are  meant,  and  the 
reason  the  Boraitha  does  not  mention  them,  is  because  it  was 
not  quite  certain,  and  there  may  chance  to  be  a  dwarf,  whose 
legal  four  ells  the  Boraitha  did  not  feel  justified  in  diminishing." 

' '  But  between  the  two  outer  courts  one  must  not  carry  ajiything. 
Why  should  this  not  be  permitted  ?  If  both  of  the  outer  courts 
and  the  middle  one  have  combined  in  one  Erub,  they  are  re- 
garded as  one  court  ?  Said  R.  Jehudah:  "  In  this  instance  a 
case  is  referred  to,  where  the  middle  court  deposited  an  Erub  in 
each  of  the  outer  courts;  hence  the  two  outer  courts  have  no 
connection  with  each  other."  R.  Shesheth,  however,  said: 
"  Even  if  the  two  outer  courts  had  deposited  their  Erubin  in  the 
middle  court  but  had  each  done  so  in  a  separate  house,  they 
have  no  connection  with  each  other.  Had  they  deposited  their 
Erubin  in  the  same  house,  they  would  have  been  regarded  as 
one  court."  According  to  whose  opinion  would  this  be  ?  Shall 
we  assume,  that  it  was  according  to  the  Beth  Shammai  as  we  have 
learned  in  the  following  Boraitha:  "  If  five  persons  conjoined 
their  Erubin  and  deposited  them  in  two  vessels  the  school  of 
Shammai  hold  them  to  be  of  no  value,  but  the  school  of  Hillel 
say  they  are  of  value."  Nay;  this  latter  opinion  is  even  in  con- 
formity with  the  school  of  Hillel  who,  while  maintaining,  that 
if  the  Erubin  had  been  deposited  in  separate  vessels  the  connec- 
tion would  be  consummated,  may  hold,  that  if  this  was  done  in 
separate  houses  the  connection  is  not  valid. 

R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  "  All  the  foregoing  is 
according  to  the  dictum  of  R.  Simeon;  the  sages,  however,  hold, 
that  from  the  two  outer  courts  things  may  be  carried  into  the 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  109 

middle  court,  but  from  the  middle  court,  things  must  not  be  car- 
ried into  the  outer  courts;  provided  no  Erub  had  been  made,  for 
one  court  may  serve  for  two  others,  but  two  must  not  be  utilized 
by  one."  And  R.  Jehudah  goes  on  to  state:  "  When  I  made 
this  statement  before  Samuel,  he  said :  '  Even  this  is  in  accord- 
ance with  the  dictum  of  R.  Simeon ;  but  the  sages  hold,  that 
neither  of  the  three  courts  may  be  made  use  of.'  " 

The  following  Boraitha  is  in  support  of  the  dictum  of  Samuel 
as  quoted  by  R.  Jehudah:  R.  Simeon  said,  "  What  can  this  be 
compared  to  ?  Three  courts  opening  into  each  other  and  also 
opening  into  public  ground.  If  the  two  outer  courts  had  com- 
bined in  an  Erub  with  the  middle  one,  a  man  is  at  liberty  to 
carry  victuals  from  either  of  the  outer  courts  into  the  middle 
court  and  eat  them,  then  remove  the  remainder  (but  a  man  of 
the  middle  court  must  not  carry  things  into  the  outer  courts); " 
the  sages  however  said:  "  No  connection  is  permitted  between 
the  three  courts." 

Samuel  in  making  this  statement  holds  to  his  theory  advanced 
elsewhere:  If  there  is  a  court  between  two  entries,  and  an  Erub 
was  made  by  the  court  with  both  entries,  connection  between 
the  court  and  both  entries  is  nevertheless  prohibited  (but  in  each 
entry  separately  things  may  be  carried) ;  if,  however,  ho  Erub 
was  made  by  the  court  with  either  of  the  two  entries,  the  court 
acts  as  a  bar  so  that  carrying  in  either  entry  is  prohibited  even 
by  the  inhabitants  of  the  entries.  If  the  court,  however,  made 
more  frequent  use  of  one  entry  to  the  neglect  of  the  other,  it 
acts  as  a  bar  only  to  the  one  frequently  used,  but  the  inhabitants 
of  the  neglected  entry  may  carry  therein. 

Said  Rabba  bar  R.  Huna:  If  the  court  made  an  Erub  with 
the  entry  used  only  on  rare  occasions  (it  is  evident,  that  hence- 
forth, the  court  intends  to  make  more  frequent  use  of  this  entry 
and  to  abandon  the  other  entry)  then  the  other  entry  becomes 
separated  and  the  inhabitants  thereof  may  carry  therein. 

Rabba  bar  R.  Huna  said  again  in  the  name  of  Samuel :  If  the 
entry  more  frequently  used  by  the  court  made  an  Erub  for  its 
own  use,  and  the  court  itself  as  well  as  the  neglected  entry  did 
not  make  any  Erubin  for  their  own  use,  the  court  is  relegated  to 
the  neglected  entry,  but  cannot  prove  a  bar  to  the  entry  having 
an  Erub,  because  that  were  otherwise  as  the  manner  of  the 
Sodomites,  i.e.,  if  an  act  is  perpetrated  which  is  neither  benefi- 
cial nor  injurious  to  the  perpetrator  but  solely  in  order  to  injure 
another,  the  perpetrator  is  compelled  to  desist.     (The  compari- 


no  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

son  is  made  to  the  case  in  question  as  follows:  Neither  the 
inhabitants  of  the  court  itself  nor  of  the  entry  may  carry  within 
their  precincts  nor  even  within  the  entry  provided  with  an  Erub, 
and  hence  it  would  not  be  just,  if,  because  they  were  not  per- 
mitted to  carry,  they  should  prove  a  bar  to  those  who  by  virtue 
of  their  Erub  are  allowed  to  do  so.) 

R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  "  The  Erub  of  a 
man  who  is  particular  about  it  that  his  fellow  (with  whom  he 
had  joined  in  the  Erub)  should  not  eat  it,  is  of  no  account. 
Why  so  ?  Because  the  word  Erub  signifies  commixture,  i.e., 
those  who  make  the  Erub  can  individually  do  with  it  as  they 
see  fit,  and  if  one  man  is  particular  about  it,  its  intent  is  abol- 
ished. ' '  R.  Hanina  however  said :  The  Erub  is  valid ;  but  a  man 
of  that  kind  is  like  the  men  of  Vardina  (who  were  notoriously 
penurious). 

R.  Jehudah  said  again  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  "  An  Erub 
which  is  divided  by  a  man  in  two  parts  or  deposited  by  him  in 
two  separate  vessels  is  of  no  account."  Then  Samuel's  dictum 
is  in  accordance  with  Beth  Shammai,  as  stated  in  the  Boraitha 
(page  io8):  We  may  assume  that  Samuel's  teaching  may  be 
also  according  to  Beth  Hillel ;  for  the  latter  hold,  that  the  Erub 
is  valid  only  then,  if  one  vessel  was  filled  with  it  and  the  remain- 
der had  to  be  put  into  another  vessel,  but  if  it  was  originally 
divided  and  then  deposited,  it  is  not  vahd. 

Samuel  said:  "The  virtual  intent  of  the  Erub  is,  that  by 
mutual  interchange  of  articles,  the  right  to  the  ground  is  bought 
and  sold."  Why  then  are  eatables  necessary;  could  it  not  have 
been  permitted  to  make  an  Erub  with  money  ?  Because,  as  a 
usual  thing  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath  money  is  scarce.  (If  that 
is  so,  then  why  should  an  Erub  that  had  been  made  with  money 
not  be  valid  ?  This  is  merely  a  precautionary  measure,  lest  it 
should  be  said  that  the  main  principle  of  an  Erub  is  money,  and 
in  the  case  of  a  lack  of  money,  eatables  will  not  be  used  in  its 
stead,  and  thus  the  law  of  Erubin  will  sink  into  oblivion.) 
Rabba,  however,  said,  that  the  Erub  signifies,  that  wherever  the 
victuals  have  been  deposited,  there  the  man  resides,  i.e.,  wher- 
ever a  man's  bread  is,  there  is  also  his  domicile.  What  is  the 
point  of  difference  between  Samuel  and  Rabba  ?  The  points  of 
difference  are  as  follows :  A  vessel  of  any  value,  victuals  worth 
less  than  a  Prutah  (a  coin  of  minimum  value)  and  a  minor. 
(According  to  Samuel  a  vessel  having  a  market  value  may  be 
used,  but  according  to  Rabba  it  does  not  follow  that  if  it  is 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  m 

deposited  in  a  certain  place  the  owner  resides  there,  hence  it 
must  not  be  used.  Victuals  worth  less  than  a  Prutah,  accord- 
ing to  Samuel,  not  having  a  market  value,  must  not  be  used, 
but  according  to  Rabba,  being  eatables,  may  be  deposited.  A 
minor,  according  to  Samuel,  cannot  be  commissioned  to  act 
because  no  money  consideration  can  be  intrusted  to  him,  and 
according  to  Rabba  where  he  only  gathers  the  material  for  the 
Erub,  he  may  be  commissioned  to  act.) 

Said  Rabba  in  the  name  of  R.  Hama  bar  Guria,  quoting 
Rabh :  The  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Simeon. 

MISHNA:  Should  a  man,  when  overtaken  by  dusk  on  the 
road  (on  the  eve  of  Sabbath),  single  out  a  tree  or  a  hedge  and 
say:  "  I  will  take  my  Sabbath-rest  underneath  it,"  {legally)  he 
has  said  nothing,  but  if  he  says:  "  I  will  take  my  Sabbath- 
rest  at  its  base,"  he  may  go  from  the  spot  on  which  he  stands  to 
the  base  of  the  tree  or  hedge  two  thousand  ells  and  thence  to 
his  domicile  two  thousand  ells  more;  thus  it  may  be  seen,  that  a 
man  may  go  four  thousand  ells  after  dark  (on  Sabbath).  If  he 
cannot  single  out  a  tree  or  a  hedge  or  is  not  conversant  with  the 
Halakha  (covering  his  case)  and  says:  "  I  will  take  my  Sabbath- 
rest  on  the  place  where  I  stand,"  the  spot  upon  which  he  stands 
(virtually)  gives  him  two  thousand  ells  in  any  direction ;  in  a 
circle,  according  to  the  dictum  of  R.  Hanina  ben  Antignous; 
but  the  sages  hold,  that  he  has  two  thousand  ells  in  a  square, 
so  as  to  enable  him  to  take  advantage  of  the  angles.  This  rule 
is  explanatory  to  the  saying  (of  the  sages):  "  The  poor  prepare 
their  Erubs  with  their  feet."  R.  Meir  said  :  "  This  rule  is  applied 
only  to  the  poor,"  but  R.  Jehudah  replied:  It  applies  to  poor 
and  rich  both ;  inasmuch  as  the  Erub  to  be  made  with  bread  was 
only  decreed  in  order  to  render  its  observance  easier  for  the 
wealthy,  so  that  they  should  not  be  compelled  to  go  out  and 
prepare  the  Erub  with  their  own  feet. 

GEMARA:  What  is  meant  by  "legally  he  has  said 
nothing"  ?  Said  Rabh:  "  It  means  literally  that  he  has  said 
nothing  and  must  not  move  from  his  place;  (because  where  he 
stands,  he  did  not  acquire  the  right  to  rest  on  Sabbath,  his 
intention  having  been  to  rest  underneath  the  tree.  Underneath 
the  tree  he  acquired  no  right,  not  having  specified  the  spot  where 
he  would  rest,  and  although  the  space  underneath  the  tree  is 
within  two  thousand  ells  from  his  position  at  the  time,  as  long 
as  he  did  not  specify  the  exact  spot  he  must  not  go  there)." 
Samuel,  however,  said:    It  means,   that  he  said  nothing  con- 


112  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

cerning  the  distance  from  the  tree  to  his  domicile  but  he  may 
traverse  the  distance  from  where  he  stands  to  the  tree  (because 
the  entire  space  underneath  the  tree  is  within  two  thousand  ells 
of  his  position  at  the  time,  and  the  distance  from  his  domicile  is 
only  two  thousand  ells  to  the  base  of  the  tree,  but  to  the  entire 
space  underneath  the  tree  it  is  more  than  two  thousand  ells); 
hence  this  entire  space  is  like  driving  an  ass  and  leading  a  camel, 
for  it  is  not  known  from  which  side  the  distance  to  his  domicile  is 
two  thousand  ells.  If  it  be  measured  from  the  north,  chances 
are  that  it  should  be  measured  from  the  south,  and  vice  versa. 

Said  Rabba:  (Samuel's  opinion  is  feasible,  for  he  says,  that 
the  man  acquired  the  right  to  two  thousand  ells  from  where  he 
stands ;  but  not  having  determined  the  exact  spot  underneath  the 
tree,  he  loses  the  further  two  thousand  ells  to  his  domicile)  but 
what  grounds  has  Rabh  for  his  opinion  ?  Rabh  holds,  that  if 
two  intentions,  one  consequent  upon  the  other,  are  expressed  in 
one  assertion,  the  inability  to  carry  out  one  intention  destroys 
the  other  also  (and  in  this  case  as  the  man  cannot  proceed  from 
the  tree  to  the  domicile  it  invalidates  his  right  to  go  from  his 
place  to  the  tree).  What  is  the  difference  between  the  two 
opinions  ?  The  difference  is  if  one  says,  "  I  will  take  my  rest 
in  the  four  ells  of  the  eight  ells  underneath  the  tree,"  according 
to  those  who  hold  that  the  place  of  rest  must  be  exactly  deter- 
mined, it  is  of  no  value,  but  he  who  holds  that  if  two  intentions, 
one  consequent  upon  the  other,  are  expressed  in  one  assertion, 
the  inability  to  carry  out  one  intention  destroys  the  other  also, 
in  this  case  when  he  determines  four  ells  it  may  be  called  the 
exact  spot,  and  is  valid. 

Said  R.  Huna  the  son  of  R.  Jehoshua:  The  case  in  the 
Mishna  mentioned  "  he  legally  said  nothing  "  applies  only  if  the 
space  underneath  the  tree  is  eight  ells  or  more;  but  if  it  meas- 
ures only  seven  ells  the  man  may  proceed  to  the  tree  and  from 
the  tree  to  his  domicile  (because  he  is  entitled  at  any  rate  to 
four  ells  and  no  matter  from  which  side  the  distance  to  his 
domicile  is  measured,  part  of  his  domicile  will  be  within  two 
thousand  ells). 

We  have  learned  one  Boraitha  in  support  of  Rabh  and 
another  supporting  Samuel :  The  one  upholding  Rabh  is  as  fol- 
lows: If  one,  while  on  the  road,  was  overtaken  by  dusk,  and, 
singling  out  a  tree,  said:  "  I  will  take  my  Sabbath-rest  under- 
neath it,"  he  has  said  nothing.  If  he  said,  however,  that  he 
would  rest  in  a  certain  place,  he  can  proceed  to  that  place  and, 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  113 

arriving  there,  may  traverse  the  entire  extent  of  that  place  and 
two  thousand  ells  outside  of  it.  When  may  he  do  so  ?  If  he 
designated  a  particular  place,  i.e.,  if  he  designated  a  sand-heap 
ten  spans  high,  or  a  valley  ten  spans  deep,  and  from  four  ells  to 
two  saahs'  capacity  wide ;  but  if  he  did  not  previously  designate 
the  place  or  there  was  no  such  place  in  existence,  he  may  only 
move  four  ells  from  where  he  is  situated  at  the  time.  If  there 
were  two  men,  one  of  whom  could  designate  the  place  and  the 
other  could  not,  the  latter  may  invest  the  former  with  the  right 
to  select  the  place  for  him  and  he  (the  former)  may  act  accord- 
ingly. This  is  the  case  only  if  the  man  designates  the  four  ells 
where  he  desires  to  rest,  but  if  he  does  not,  he  must  not  move 
from  his  place. 

The  Boraitha  upholding  Samuel  is  as  follows:  If  a  man  made 
an  error  and  deposited  his  Erub  in  two  directions,  or  if  a  man 
thought  that  it  was  allowed  to  make  two  Erubin  and  go  in  one 
direction  in  the  morning  and  in  another  in  the  afternoon,  or  if  a 
man  said  to  his  servants:  "  Make  an  Erub  for  me,"  without 
specifying  the  place  for  it,  and  one  of  them  made  the  Erub  in 
the  north  and  the  other  in  the  south,  the  man  may  go  south  for 
a  distance  of  two  thousand  ells  minus  the  distance  from  his 
house  to  the  Erub  on  the  north  or  may  go  north  for  a  distance 
of  two  thousand  ells  minus  the  distance  from  his  house  to  the 
Erub  on  the  south.  If  the  house  was  midway  between  the  two 
Erubin,  however,  i.e.,  the  two  Erubin  were  placed  equidistant 
from  the  house  two  thousand  ells,  he  must  not  move  beyond  his 
house. 

"  If  he  says,  '  I  will  take  my  Sabbath-rest  at  its  base, '  ' '  etc. 
Said  Rabha:  "  Being  overtaken  by  dusk"  signifies,  that  if  the 
man  walked  slowly  he  could  not  reach  the  tree  before  dusk,  but 
if  he  ran  speedily  he  could  reach  the  base  of  the  tree. 

Rabba  and  R.  Joseph  were  on  the  road :  Said  Rabba  to  R. 
Joseph:  "  We  will  rest  underneath  the  tree  that  tolerates  good 
fellowship."  And  according  to  another  version  he  said :  "We 
will  rest  underneath  the  tree,  that  honorably  acquits  itself  of  its 
dues  {i.e.,  that  bears  quantities  of  fruit  and  thus  pays  its  dues)." 
Said  R.  Joseph:  "I  know  not  of  such  a  tree."  Answered 
Rabha:  Depend  upon  me,  as  a  Boraitha  stated,  R.  Jose  said: 
If  there  be  two  men,  one  of  whom  could  designate  the  place 
and  the  other  could  not,  the  latter  may  invest  the  former  with 
the  right  to  select  the  place  for  him  and  he  (the  former)  may 
say:  "  There  shall  we  rest."      In  truth  this  is  not  so.     R.  Jose 

VOL.    III. — 8 


114  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

never  said  this ;  but  Rabba  asserted  this  in  the  name  of  R.  Jose 
so  that  R.  Joseph  should  listen  to  him ;  for  it  was  known  that 
R.  Jose  was  final  authority  and  that  the  Halakhas  prevailed 
according  to  his  opinion. 

*'  If  he  cannot  single  out  a  tree  or  is  not  conversant  with  the 
Halakha.''  From  what  biblical  passage  is  all  this  talk  about  two 
thousand  ells  adduced  ?  We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha :  It  is 
written  [Exod.  xvi.  29] :  "  Remain  ye  every  man  in  his  spot,  let 
no  man  go  out  of  his  place  on  the  seventh  day."  "  On  his 
spot"  means  four  ells,  and  "out  of  his  place"  refers  to  two 
thousand  ells.  Whence  does  the  Boraitha  adduce  this  assertion  ? 
Said  R.  Hisda:  "  Because  it  is  written  [Numbers  xxxv.  5]: 
'  And  ye  shall  measure  from  without  the  city  on  the  east  side 
two  thousand  ells,'  etc.  (Thus  from  the  verse  it  is  seen,  that 
the  city  was  in  the  centre  and  they  measured  two  thousand  ells 
on  every  side  and  from  this  the  legal  limits  were  derived.) 

* '  Two  thousand  ells  in  any  direction  in  a  circle, ' '  etc.  What 
grounds  has  R.  Hanina  ben  Antignous  for  the  statement  ?  If 
he  agrees  to  the  interpretation  of  the  passage  quoted,  he  should 
have  said  in  a  square,  for  so  the  passage  determines,  and  if  he 
does  not  hold  to  the  passage  at  all,  whence  does  he  adduce  two 
thousand  ells  in  general  ?  He  holds  to  the  interpretation  of  the 
passage  quoted,  but  the  end  of  the  same  verse  reads,  "  This  shall 
be  to  them  the  open  spaces  of  cities,"  and  he  declares,  that  for 
the  purpose  of  the  verse  it  should  be  in  a  square,  but  for  Sab- 
bath it  should  not  be  in  a  square.  Whence  do  the  sages  adduce 
that  the  two  thousand  ells  should  be  in  a  square  ?  The  sages 
hold  with  Hananiah,  who  taught,  that  "  this  shall  be  to  them," 
should  read  "  as  this,"  and  as  this  should  be  all  the  legal  limits 
of  the  Sabbath. 

Said  R.  A'ha  bar  Jacob.  One  who  carries  four  ells  in  public 
ground  is  not  culpable  unless  he  carries  in  a  diagonal  of  four  ells.* 

Said  R.  Papa:  "  Rabha  wished  to  examine  us  and  asked  the 
following  question:  *  Is  it  necessary  that  a  pillar  ten  spans  high 
and  four  wide  standing  in  public  ground,  should  contain  a  square 
so  that  a  diagonal  can  be  drawn  ?'  We  answered:  Is  this  not 
the  same  as  the  teaching  of  R.  Hananiah  which  states  *  as  this 
should  be  all  the  legal  limits  of  Sabbath.'  " 

'  *  R.  Meir  said :  '  This  rule  is  applied  only  to  the  poor, '  ' '  etc. 

*  Rashi  explains  this  to  mean  4  ells  and  f  or  if  of  an  ell  additionally.  It  is 
difficult  to  understand  just  how  this  is  meant  or  how  the  diagonal  can  be  derived  with- 
out the  square. 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  115 

Said  R.  Na'hman:  "  The  point  of  difference  between  R.  Meir 
and  R.  Jehudah  is  where  a  man  says:  '  I  will  rest  in  my  place ' 
(where  I  am  standing).  R.  Meir  holds,  that  the  principal  thing 
to  be  used  for  an  Erub  is  bread ;  and  for  the  poor  man,  who  has 
no  bread  with  him,  it  is  made  easier;  the  rich  man,  however,  has 
no  right  to  do  so ;  but  R.  Jehudah  holds,  that  the  principal  way 
to  make  an  Erub  is  to  make  it  with  one's  feet,  whether  the  man 
be  poor  or  rich,  but  concerning  the  designation  of  a  tree  or  a  cer- 
tain place  for  a  Sabbath-rest  while  travelling,  all  agree,  that  it  is 
allowed  for  a  poor  man  but  not  for  a  rich  man."  The  statement 
in  the  Mishna  "  This  rule  is  explanatory  to  the  saying,"  means 
to  say  that  the  saying  is  that  of  R.  Meir,  and  what  does  it  refer 
to  ?  To  the  previous  clause  in  the  Mishna,  "If  he  cannot  single 
out  a  tree  or  is  not  conversant  with  the  Halakha. "  The  teach- 
ing "  for  the  poor  man  who  has  no  bread  with  him,  it  is  made 
easier,"  is  that  of  R.  Jehudah. 

R.  Hisda,  however,  said:  On  the  contrary.  R.  Meir  and 
R.  Jehudah  differ  only  as  to  the  designation  of  a  certain  place 
for  the  Sabbath-rest,  the  former  holding,  that  for  a  poor  man 
this  is  allowed,  but  not  for  a  rich  man,  and  the  latter  holding 
that  it  is  permitted  for  both ;  but  all  agree  that  as  for  resting  in 
one's  place  where  he  stands  it  is  allowed  to  both  rich  and  poor, 
because  the  principal  way  of  effecting  an  Erub  is  with  one's  feet. 
The  statement  of  the  Mishna,  "  This  rule  is  explanatory  to  the 
saying,"  refers  to  a  man  who  was  overtaken  by  dusk,  while  the 
teaching  "  for  the  poor  man  who  has  no  bread,  it  is  made  easier," 
is  according  to  the  opinion  of  all. 

We  have  learned  a  Boraitha  in  support  of  R.  Na'hman:  Be 
it  a  poor  man  or  a  rich  man  an  Erub  should  be  effected  with 
bread.  A  rich  man  should  not  go  out  to  the  legal  limits  and  say: 
"  Here  will  I  take  my  Sabbath-rest  "  because  this  is  allowed  only 
to  one  who  was  overtaken  by  dusk  on  the  road,  so  saith  R.  Meir. 
R.  Jehudah,  however,  said:  Be  it  a  poor  man  or  a  rich  man 
the  Erub  should  be  effected  with  the  feet  and  a  rich  man  may 
go  out  to  the  legal  limits  and  take  his  Sabbath-rest  there,  because 
the  principal  manner  of  effecting  an  Erub  is  with  the  feet.  To 
the  householder,  however,  the  sages  allowed  to  send  a  servant,  a 
son,  or  any  other  messenger,  to  make  the  Erub  in  his  stead,  in 
order  to  make  it  easier  for  him,  and  R.  Jehudah  said  again: 
It  happened  to  the  men  of  the  house  of  Mamel  and  of  the 
house  of  Gurion  in  the  city  of  Aruma  who  would  distribute  figs 
and  raisins  during  years  of  famine,  that  the  poor  of  the  villages 


ii6  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

of  Shihin  and  Hananiah  would  come  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath  to 
the  legal  limits,  remain  there  over  night,  and  on  the  morrow 
would  enter  the  city  of  Aruma  and  receive  their  share. 

R.  Hyya  bar  Ashi  taught  Hyya  the  son  of  Rabh  in  the  pres- 
ence of  Rabh:  "  Be  he  a  rich  man  or  a  poor  man."  Said  Rabh 
to  him:  "  Add  to  this  teaching,  that  the  Halakha  prevails  accord- 
ing to  R.  Jehudah." 

Rabba  bar  R.  Hanan  generally  went  on  the  Sabbath  from 
Artibna  to  Pumbaditha.  Once,  while  on  the  way  he  said:  "  I 
will  take  my  Sabbath-rest  in  Tzintha  (a  small  hamlet  between 
the  two  towns)."  Said  Abayi  to  him:  Why  dost  thou  say  this, 
because  thou  knowest,  that  where  R.  Meir  differs  with  R.  Jehu- 
dah the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Jehudah  and  besides, 
thou  art  of  the  opinion  of  R.  Hisda,  who  holds,  that  they  differ 
only  concerning  the  designation  of  a  certain  place  for  the  Sab- 
bath-rest; but  did  not  R.  Na'hman  explain  to  the  contrary  and 
have  we  not  a  Boraitha  in  support  of  R.  Na'hman  ? 

Answered  Rabba  bar  R.  Hanan,  "  Henceforth  I  shall  not  do 
this  again." 

Rami  bar  Hama  asked:  "  It  was  said,  that  one  who  made  an 
Erub  by  means  of  his  feet,  has  four  ells  for  himself  besides  the 
two  thousand  allowed  him.  What  is  the  law  concerning  one  who 
had  sent  bread  to  make  the  Erub  ?  Has  he  the  extra  four  ells 
or  not  ? "  Said  Rabha:  "Come  and  hear:  The  Mishna  states 
that  the  Erub  was  to  be  made  with  bread  only  to  make  it  easier 
for  the  wealthy.  If  we  should  say,  that  he  has  not  the  four  ells, 
it  will  not  be  made  easier  for  the  wealthy,  but  on  the  contrary 
stricter?"  It  will  not  be  stricter  ?  For  he  would  rather  lose 
the  four  ells  and  be  enabled  to  send  a  messenger  in  his  stead  than 
to  go  himself. 

MISHNA:  If  a  man  (on  the  eve  of  Sabbath)  had  been 
despatched  by  his  townsmen  to  combine  by  an  Erub  a  town  (or 
village  in  the  vicinity)  and  was  subsequently  induced  by  a  neigh- 
bor to  go  back  (before  completing  his  errand)  he  is  permitted  to 
go  to  the  place  in  question  (nevertheless);  all  his  townsmen, 
however,  are  forbidden  (to  go  thither).  Such  is  the  dictum  of 
R.  Jehudah;  but  R.  Meir  said:  One  who  can  prepare  an  Erub 
and  does  not  prepare  it,  is  (like  one  driving)  an  ass  and  (leading) 
a  camel  (at  the  same  time). 

GEMARA:  What  difference  is  there  between  the  man  and 
his  townsmen  ?  Said  R.  Huna:  "  This  is  a  case  of  where  a  man 
possessed  two  houses  which  had  two  legal  limits  between  them. 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  117 

i.e.,  they  were  four  thousand  ells  apart  and  the  man  went  out 
on  the  road  without  taking  bread  along.  He  is  then  considered 
as  a  poor  man ;  (and  in  consequence  made  his  Erub  wherever 
he  was  with  his  feet)  but  his  townsmen  who  sent  him  to  make 
the  Erub  are  regarded  as  wealthy  and  their  Erub  not  having 
been  effected  are  not  allowed  to  go  out," 

We  learned  a  Boraitha  supporting  this  teaching:  "  One  who 
has  two  houses  between  which  there  are  two  legal  limits  makes 
the  Erub  valid  as  soon  as  he  starts  out  on  the  way  from  one  to 
the  other,  such  is  the  dictum  of  R,  Jehudah.  Moreover,  said 
R.  Jose  the  son  of  R.  Jehudah,  even  if  his  comrades  meet  him 
and  tell  him  to  stay  over  night  where  he  is,  because  it  is  too  hot 
or  too  cold,  he  may  arise  in  the  morning  and  continue  on  his  way 
(for  his  intention  was  originally  to  make  his  Erub  at  the  end  of 
his  journey)." 

Said  Rabba:  "  All  agree  that  a  man  may  continue  his  journey 
after  remaining  at  a  certain  place  over  night,  if  he  had  been 
persuaded  to  interrupt  his  journey  by  another,  but  if  he  did  so 
of  his  own  accord,  he  must  not  continue  on  his  way,  because  he 
may  have  changed  his  original  intention.  Wherein  they  differ 
is,  if  the  man  was  persuaded  to  remain  at  a  certain  place  before 
commencing  his  journey.  According  to  one,  his  Erub  is  invalid 
as  long  as  he  had  not  yet  started,  and  according  to  the  other,  it 
is  valid  because  the  intention  originally  existed." 

R.  Joseph,  however,  said:  "  All  agree  that  one  must  start  on 
the  journey,  otherwise  his  Erub  is  not  valid;  but  they  differ  in 
a  case  of  a  man  having  been  persuaded  to  stop  over  at  a  certain 
place  or  doing  so  of  his  own  accord.  One  holds,  that  if  he 
stopped  over  of  his  own  accord,  he  may  have  changed  his  orig- 
inal intention  and  hence  his  Erub  is  not  valid,  while  the  other 
maintains,  that  as  long  as  he  had  started,  it  does  not  matter. 

R.  Jehudah  bar  Isht'tha  brought  a  basket  of  fruit  to  R. 
Nathan  bar  Oshiya  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath  (and  the  distance 
from  his  house  to  that  of  R.  Nathan  was  four  thousand  ells). 
He  started  to  return  and  R.  Nathan  let  him  go  as  far  as  the  first 
step  and  then  said  to  him:  "  Remain  here  over  night."  On  the 
morrow,  he  arose  and  returned  to  his  home. 

"  But  R.  Meir  said :  '  One  who  can  prepare  an  Erub,'  "  etc. 
Have  we  not  learned  already  in  a  Mishna  (of  the  third  chapter) 
that  R.  Meir  and  R.  Jehudah  both  said:  "  If  (an  Erub)  is  doubt- 
ful, this  is  (Hke  driving)  an  ass  (and  leading  a)  camel."  Said  R. 
Shesheth:    It  might  be  assumed  that  the  reason  of  R.  Meir's 


ii8  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

opinion  is  that  only  in  the  case  of  a  doubtful  Erub,  it  is  a  case 
of  an  ass  and  a  camel,  but  if  it  is  known  to  a  certainty  that  no 
Erub  was  made,  such  is  not  the  case  (but  it  is  positively  forbid- 
den) ;  hence  we  are  given  to  understand  that  even  where  it  is 
certain  that  the  Erub  was  not  made  it  is  also  a  case  of  an  ass 
and  a  camel ;  because  the  Mishna  cites  a  case  where  it  is  certain 
that  no  Erub  was  made. 

MISHNA:  If  one  went  beyond  the  legal  limit  even  a  single 
ell,  he  must  not  go  back  the  entire  distance.  R.  Eliezer  said: 
If  he  went  two  ells  beyond  the  limit  he  may  go  back ;  but  if 
three  ells,  he  must  not. 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Hanina:  "  If  a  man  had  one  foot  within 
the  limit  and  the  other  foot  outside  he  may  enter,  because  it  is 
written  [Isaiah  Iviii.  13]:  '  If  thou  restrain  thy  feet  for  the  sake 
of  the  Sabbath '  and  we  read  '  thy  feet '  and  as  one  foot  was 
still  within  the  limit,  it  cannot  be  said,  that  he  had  restrained  his 
feet."  We  have  learned,  however,  in  another  Boraitha,  that  he 
must  not  enter  ?  R.  Hanina  holds  according  to  the  opinion  of 
the  anonymous  teachers,  who  maintain  in  still  another  Boraitha, 
that  wherever  the  greater  part  of  the  body  of  a  man  is  situated, 
there  is  his  place. 

"  R.  Eliezer  said :  '  If  he  went  two  ells,'  "  etc.  Did  we  not 
learn  in  a  Boraitha,  that  R.  Eliezer  said:  If  he  went  one  ell 
beyond  the  limit  he  may  go  back;  but  if  he  went  two  ells,  he 
must  not  ?  This  presents  no  difificulty;  our  Mishna  refers  to  a 
case  where  he  had  overstepped  one  ell  and  remained  exactly  two 
ells  beyond,  while  the  Boraitha  refers  to  one  who  had  over- 
stepped two  ells  and  was  already  in  the  third.  Did  we  not  learn 
in  another  Boraitha,  that  R.  Eliezer  said  :  "  Even  if  he  had 
stepped  out  one  ell,  he  must  not  reenter  ?  "  This  Boraitha  refers 
to  the  one  who  measured  the  legal  distance  (as  is  stated  in  the 
last  Mishna  of  the  next  chapter,  which  will  be  explained  then 
and  there). 

MISHNA:  One  who  was  overtaken  by  dusk  one  ell  outside 
of  the  legal  limit  must  not  reenter  the  town ;  R.  Simeon,  how- 
ever, said:  Even  if  one  was  fifteen  ells  beyond  the  limit,  he  may 
go  back,  as  the  land-surveyors  who  establish  the  limits,  are  not 
very  exact  in  their  measurements  and  allowance  is  made  for 
those  who  might  err. 

GEMARA:  We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  "  It  sometimes 
happens  that  the  land-surveyors  forget  their  mark  and  go 
beyond  the  distance." 


CHAPTER   V. 

REGULATIONS    CONCERNING    THE    BOUNDARIES    OF    A    TOWN    AND    THE 
MEASUREMENTS   OF    THE    LEGAL    LIMITS. 

MISHNA:  How  can  the  boundaries  of  a  town  be  extended  ? 
If  one  house  recede  from  the  city  wall  and  another  project,  or  if 
a  ruin  recede  or  project,  or  if  fragments  of  a  wall  ten  spans  high 
lie  beyond  the  walls,  or  if  there  be  any  bridges  or  cemeteries, 
with  dwelling-houses  thereon,  the  measurement  of  a  town  is 
commenced  on  a  level  with  them ;  and  the  whole  is  formed  into 
a  (quasi)  square,  in  order  to  gain  the  angles. 

GEMARA:  R.  Johanan  said:  For  eighteen  days  I  lived  with 
Oshiya  the  Great  and  did  not  learn  but  one  thing  concerning  this 
Mishna,  namely:  The  Mishna  should  not  read  "  How  can  the 
boundaries  of  a  town  be  extended,  but  how  can  they  be  dis- 
tricted."* This  is  not  so!  Did  not  R.  Johanan  once  assert, 
that  during  his  stay  with  Oshiya  the  Great  for  eighteen  days  he 
learned  to  know  the  heart  and  wisdom  of  each  one  of  Oshiya's 
twelve  disciples  ?  He  says  only  that  he  learned  but  one  thing 
concerning  this  Mishna,  but  aside  from  that,  he  learned  many 
other  things. 

R.  Johanan  said  again:  "When  we  were  studying  the  Law 
at  Oshiya's  we  sate  four  men  to  one  ell."  Rabbi  said:  "  When 
we  studied  at  R.  Elazar  ben  Shamua's  college  we  sate  six  men 
to  one  ell." 

R.  Johanan  said  once  more:  As  R.  Meir  was  in  ^w generation 
so  was  R.  Oshiya  the  Great  in  his  day.  As  with  R.  Meir,  the 
colleagues  of  his  day,  could  never  arrive  at  his  final  decisions, 
so  was  it  also  with  Oshiya.  His  colleagues  could  also  never 
fathom  his  ultimate  conclusions. 

R.  Johanan  said  again:  The  hearts  of  the  first  sages  were 
as  broad  as  the  porch  of  the  Temple  and  those  of  the  later  sages 
were  as  broad  as  the  gates  of  the  Temple,  but  our  hearts  are  as 

*  The  question  here  arises  whether  the  Hebrew  term  "  Meabrin,"  which  we 
render  with  "  extended,"  is  spelled  with  an  Aleph  or  an  Ayin.  If  with  an  Aleph  it 
signifies  extended,  and  if  with  an  Ayin  it  means  districted. 

119 


I20  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

narrow  as  the  eye  of  a  sewing-needle.  Whom  does  he  refer 
to  as  the  first  sages  ?  R.  Aqiba.  Whom  as  the  later  sages  ? 
R.  Elazar  bar  Shamua,  and  according  to  another  version  he  refers 
to  R.  Elazar  ben  Shamua  and  Oshiya  the  Great  respectively. 

Said  Abayi :  We  are  as  a  nail  driven  in  a  hard  wall  as  far  as 
explanations  are  concerned  {i.e.,  we  understand  but  little  of 
what  we  hear,  and  that  with  dif^culty).  Said  Rabha :  We  are 
also  like  a  finger  pushed  into  a  cake  of  wax  (meaning  we  are  so 
dull  of  comprehension  where  comparisons  are  concerned,  that 
but  as  little  remains  with  us  as  with  the  finger  that  has  been 
pulled  out  from  the  wax).  Said  R.  Ashi:  "  And  we  may  say, 
that  it  is  as  easy  for  us  to  forget  what  we  have  learned  as  it  is  to 
put  our  finger  in  the  hole  of  a  well." 

R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  The  children  of 
Judaea  who  paid  strict  attention  to  the  words  of  their  masters  and 
propounded  many  questions  retained  all  they  learned.  The 
Galileans,  however,  who  did  not  pay  strict  attention  to  the  lan- 
guage of  their  masters,  and  did  not  question  them,  did  not 
retain  anything.  The  Judseans  learned  from  one  master,  hence 
they  remembered  what  they  learned ;  but  the  Galileans  had 
many  teachers  and  in  consequence  they  did  not  retain  anything. 

Rabhina  said :  The  Judaeans  taught  every  tract  they  had 
themselves  mastered  to  others;  hence  they  retained  their  knowl- 
edge; because  teaching  others  improves  one's  own  learning;  the 
Galileans,  however,  did  not  do  this  and  in  consequence  their 
knowledge  forsook  them.  Of  David  who  taught  others  it  is  said 
[Psalms  cxix.  74] :  "  Those  that  fear  thee  will  see  me  and  be 
rejoiced,"  but  of  Saul,  who  did  not  teach  others,  it  is  said  [I 
Samuel  xiv.  47]:  "And  whithersoever  he  turned  himself,  he 
caused  terror," 

Said  R.  Johanan :  "  Whence  do  I  know,  that  the  Lord  for- 
gave Saul  for  the  sin  of  massacring  the  priests  of  the  city  of 
Nev  ? "  Because  Samuel's  spirit  said  unto  him:  "On  the 
morrow,  thou  and  thy  children  shall  be  with  me."  What  is 
meant  by  "  with  me  "  ?  (That  means  in  the  same  place  as  Sam- 
uel and  as  Samuel  was  a  righteous  man  and  certainly  in  Para- 
dise, so  Saul  must  have  been  forgiven  in  order  to  share  Samuel's 
abode.) 

R.  Jehoshua  ben  Hananiah  said:  "  I  was  never  disconcerted 
in  my  life  except  by  a  woman,  a  boy,  and  a  little  girl.  The 
instance  of  the  woman  occurred  in  this  wise :  I  at  one  time 
resided  at  the  house  of  a  widow.     At  table  she  set  before  me  a 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  121 

plate  of  beans  and  I  ate  it  up  leaving  nothing.  On  the  second 
day  she  gave  me  the  same  dish  which  I  also  consumed  entirely. 
On  the  third  day  she  made  the  dish  too  salt  and  after  tasting  it 
I  naturally  stopped  and  left  it  alone.  Said  she  to  me :  '  Rabbi, 
why  dost  thou  not  eat  ? '  and  I  answered,  that  I  had  already 
eaten  during  the  day ;  she  then  rejoined :  '  Thou  shouldst  have 
eaten  less  bread,'  and  continued:  '  Perhaps  because  thou  didst 
not  leave  any  Peah*  on  the  first  two  days,  thou  dost  leave  it 
now  to  serve  for  all  three;  for  have  not  our  sages  decreed,  that 
no  Peah  need  be  left  in  the  cooking  pot,  but  some  should  be  left 
in  the  plate  on  w^hich  the  dish  is  served  ? '  " 

The  instance  of  the  little  girl  happened  as  follows :  Once  I 
was  travelling  on  a  road  and  seeing  a  beaten  path  leading  across 
a  meadow  I  took  that  path.  Said  a  little  girl  to  me:  "  Rabbi! 
is  this  not  a  meadow  that  thou  art  crossing  ? "  and  I  answered: 
"  Is  this  not  a  beaten  path  ?"  and  she  answered:  "  Yea;  such 
robbers  as  thou  art  have  made  it  a  beaten  path."  As  for  the 
affair  with  the  little  boy  it  happened  thus :  Once  while  on  the 
road  I  noticed  a  child  sitting  at  a  cross-road.  I  asked  him,  which 
road  led  to  the  city,  and  he  answered:  "This  road  is  the  shorter 
but  at  the  same  time  the  longer,  and  this  one  is  long  but  never- 
theless short."  I  took  the  shorter  road  that  was  at  the  same 
time  the  longer.  When  I  came  to  the  city  I  saw  the  entrance 
to  the  city  at  that  point  was  surrounded  by  gardens  and  vine- 
yards, so  that  I  had  to  retrace  my  steps.  Said  I  to  the  child  at 
the  cross-road:  "Didst  thou  not  say  that  this  was  the  short 
route  ? "  and  he  answered:  "  Did  I  not  also  tell  thee  that  it  was 
a  long  route  ?  "  I  then  kissed  him  on  the  forehead  and  remarked: 
"  Well  is  thee,  Israel,  that  all  thy  children  are  wise,  both  great 
and  small." 

R.  Jose  the  Galilean  was  travelling  on  the  road.  He  met 
Brurih  (the  wife  of  R.  Meir)  and  asked  her:  "  Which  way  must 
we  take  to  the  city  of  Lud  ?"  She  answered:  "  Thou  Galilean 
fool !  Did  not  our  sages  say,  that  thou  shouldst  not  converse 
much  with  a  woman  ?  Thou  shouldst  have  asked,  which  way 
to  Lud?" 

The  same  Brurih  once  found  a  young  scholar  learning  quietly 
to  himself.  She  scolded  him  and  said  :  "  It  is  written  [II  Samuel 
xxiii.  5]  :  '  Firm  in  all  and  sure,'  which  signifies,  that  if  the  Law 


*  Peah  signifies  the  comers  of  the  field,  the  crops  of  which  must  be  left  over  for 
the  widows,  orphans,  etc. 


122  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

is  firmly  imbedded  in  all  the  two  hundred  and  forty-eight  mem- 
bers of  the  body  it  can  remain  with  the  man,  otherwise  it  can- 
not." We  have  learned  that  there  was  a  disciple  of  R.  Eliezer, 
who  learned  quietly  to  himself  and  in  the  course  of  three  years 
he  forgot  all  he  had  learned. 

Said  Samuel  to  R.  Jehudah:  Thou  sagacious  one.  Open 
thy  mouth,  when  thou  readest  and  also  when  thou  learnest  and 
then  may  it  come  to  pass,  that  thou  shalt  live  long,  as  it  is  writ- 
ten [Proverbs  iv.  22]:  "  For  they  are  life  unto  every  one  of 
those  that  find  them,  and  to  all  his  body  a  healing."  Do  not 
read  "  that  find  them,"  but"  that  make  them  a  find  for  others," 
that  is  by  pronouncing  them  with  the  mouth  others  will  hear 
them  and  be  benefited. 

Samuel  said  again  to  R.  Jehudah:  Thou  sagacious  one!  As 
long  as  thou  hast  any  money,  eat  and  drink;  for  the  world 
which  we  leave  behind  is  like  a  wedding-feast,  it  is  soon  over 
(and  in  the  next  world,  thou  wilt  not  be  able  to  do  this). 

Rabh  said  to  R.  Hamnana :  My  son !  If  thou  hast  the 
wherewith  to  do  thyself  good,  do  so,  for  in  the  grave  there  is  no 
pleasure  and  there  is  no  fixed  time  for  death,  and  if  thou  shouldst 
wish  to  say:  "  I  will  leave  my  children  sufficient  to  live  on  when 
I  am  in  my  grave, ' '  who  can  assure  thee,  that  they  will  keep  it ; 
for  men  are  like  grass  in  the  field — some  spring  up  and  have 
everything  prepared  for  them  while  others  fade  and  have  nothing. 

R.  Jehoshua  ben  Levi  said :  One  who  travels  on  the  road  and 
has  no  companion,  should  study  the  Law,  as  it  is  written  [Prov- 
erbs i.  9]  :  "  For  a  wreath  of  grace  are  they  unto  thy  head,  and 
chains  for  thy  throat."  If  a  man  have  a  headache,  he  should 
study  the  Law  for  it  is  "  a  wreath  of  grace  "  unto  his  head.  If 
his  throat  be  sore,  he  should  study  the  Law  for  it  is  "  a  chain  " 
for  his  throat.  If  thy  stomach  hurt  thee,  do  likewise,  for  it  is 
written  [ibid.  iii.  8] :  "It  will  be  healing  to  thy  travel  "  (body), 
and  also  if  thy  bones  ache,  for  it  says  further  [ibid.],  "  and  mar- 
row to  thy  bones."  Likewise  one  who  has  pains  in  any  part  of 
his  body  should  study  the  Law,  for  it  is  written  [ibid.  iv.  22] : 
"  And  to  all  his  body  a  healing." 

Said  R.  Jehudah  ben  R.  Hyya:  Come  and  observe  how  the 
custom  of  the  Lord  differs  from  that  of  man!  If  a  man  pre- 
scribes a  remedy,  it  may  benefit  one  and  injure  another,  but  the 
Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  gave  the  Law  to  all  Israel  as  a  rem- 
edy for  all  and  for  the  whole  body  as  it  is  written;  "  And  to  all 
his  body  a  healing." 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  123 

R.  Ama  said:  It  is  written  [Proverbs  xxii.  18] :  "  For  it  is  a 
pleasant  thing  if  thou  keep  them  within  thy  bosom,  if  they  be 
altogether  firmly  seated  upon  thy  lips. ' '  Which  signifies : ' '  When 
are  the  words  of  the  Law  a  pleasant  thing  ?  If  thou  canst  keep 
them  within  thy  bosom,  and  when  canst  thou  keep  them  in  thy 
bosom  ?     If  thou  canst  pronounce  them  well  with  thy  lips." 

R.  Zera  said:  It  is  written  [ibid.  xv.  23] :  "A  man  hath  joy 
by  the  answer  of  his  mouth ;  and  a  word  spoken  at  the  proper 
time,  how  good  is  it."  Which  signifies:  When  hath  a  man  joy 
by  the  answer  of  his  mouth,  if  at  any  time  that  he  is  asked  con- 
cerning the  Law,  he  can  make  proper  reply. 

R.  Itz'hak  said:  It  is  written  [Deut.  xxx.  14]:  "  But  the 
word  is  very  nigh  unto  thee,  in  thy  mouth,  and  in  thy  heart, 
that  thou  mayest  do  it."  When  is  the  word  nigh  unto  thee  ? 
If  it  is  in  thy  mouth,  and  in  thy  heart  thou  meanest  to  do  it. 

Rabha  said:  It  is  written  [Psalms  xxi.  3] :  "  The  longing  of 
his  heart  hast  thou  given  him,  and  the  request  of  his  lips  hast 
thou  not  withholden.  Selah."  Which  means:  When  was  the 
longing  of  his  heart  given  him  ?  If  the  request  of  his  lips  was 
in  accordance  with  the  Law. 

Rabha  inferred  a  contradiction  from  the  verse  just  quoted : 
It  says,  "  The  longing  of  his  heart  hast  thou  given  him,"  and 
immediately  afterwards,  "  and  the  request  of  his  lips  hast  thou 
not  withholden."  If  the  longing  of  his  heart  was  given  him, 
what  need  was  there  of  the  request  of  his  lips?  And  explained 
this  seeming  contradiction  thus :  If  the  man  had  merited  it,  the 
longing  of  his  heart  was  granted  him  without  request,  but  if  he 
did  not,  he  first  had  to  make  a  request  for  it,  before  it  was 
granted. 

The  disciples  of  R.  Eliezer  ben  Jacob  taught:  In  every 
instance,  where  the  words  "  Netzach,"  "Selah,"  or  "  Voed  " 
form  the  conclusion  of  the  passage  it  signifies,  that  it  will  be 
forever  without  interruption.  As  for  the  word  "  Netzach  "  it  is 
written  [Isaiah  Ivii.  16]:  "For  not  to  eternity  will  I  contend, 
neither  will  I  be  forever  wroth  "  ;  "  forever  "  is  here  expressed 
by"  Netzach."  As  for  the  word  "  Selah  "  it  is  written  [Psalms 
xlviii.  9] :  "As  we  have  heard,  so  have  we  seen  it  in  the  city  of 
the  Lord  of  Hosts,  in  the  city  of  our  God :  God  will  establish  it 
forever.  Selah. ' '  Concerning ' '  Voed  "  it  is  written  [Exod.  xv. 
18]:  "  The  Lord  will  reign  for  ever  and  ever"  and  the  expres- 
sion used  is  "  Voed." 

R.  Elazar  said :  The  term  quoted  in  the  verse  [Proverbs  i.  9] : 


124  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

"Chains  for  thy  throat  "  means  to  signify,  that  as  a  chain  is 
loose  around  the  neck  and  is  not  seen  when  a  man  bows  his  head, 
so  it  is  with  a  scholar.  If  he  is  not  seen  constantly  in  the  mar- 
kets, or  oppresses  not  his  neighbor,  but  sits  quietly  and  studies 
the  Law,  he  retains  his  knowledge;  otherwise  he  does  not. 

R.  Elazar  said  again:  The  verse  [Solomon's  Song  v.  13]: 
"  His  cheeks  are  as  a  bed  of  spices"  means  "  If  a  man  makes 
himself  as  a  bed  (of  plants)  upon  which  everyone  treads  {i.e.,  is 
extremely  modest)  and  also  conducts  himself  as  a  man  who  held 
spices  in  his  hand,  which  even  after  leaving  the  hands,  still  make 
them  fragrant,  he  retains  the  knowledge  he  has  acquired,  other- 
wise he  does  not." 

He  said  again:  It  is  written  [Exod.  xxxi.  18]:  "  Tables  of 
stone"  (tables  are  in  this  verse  expressed  by  the  Hebrew  term 
"  Luchoth  "  and  Lechi  also  means  cheek).  This  refers  to  a  mian 
who  hardens  his  cheeks  until  they  are  like  stone  and  when  trod- 
den upon  are  not  defaced,  meaning  a  man  who  constantly  studies 
and  in  the  same  manner  as  the  stone  is  not  impaired  by  wear, 
the  constant  study  does  not  injure  the  man :  such  a  man  retains 
knowledge,  otherwise  he  does  not. 

Again  R.  Elazar  said :  It  is  written  [Exod.  xxxii.  16]:  "En- 
graved upon  the  tables,"  which  means,  that  if  the  tables  had  not 
been  broken  the  first  time,  the  Law  would  never  have  been  for- 
gotten by  Israel,  for  a  thing  that  is  engraved  cannot  be  obliter- 
ated, and  R.  Aha  bar  Jacob  added,  "  that  no  nation  on  earth 
could  have  got  them  in  their  power,"  because:  do  not  read 
"  Charuth  "  (engraved)  but  "  Cheiruth  "  (liberty). 

R.  Mathna  said:  It  is  written  [Numbers  xxi.  18]:  "And 
from  the  wilderness  to  Mattanah,"  *  which  signifies,  that  if  the 
man  makes  himself  as  a  wilderness,  upon  which  everybody 
treads,  and  does  not  mind  it,  the  knowledge  he  gains  remains 
with  him  as  a  present. 

R.  Huna  said :  It  is  written  [Psalms  Ixviii.  1 1]  Thy  assem- 
bly dwelt  therein :  thou  didst  prepare  it  with  thy  goodness  for 
the  afflicted  people,  O  God!  ("  Thy  assembly  "  is  expressed  in 
the  Hebrew  by  "  Chaiothcha  "  and  Chaiah  means  a  wild  beast.) 
If  a  scholar  is  in  the  manner  of  learning  as  a  wild  beast  which 
devours  its  prey  immediately  after  killing  it,  i.e.,  as  soon  as  he 
learns  a  thing  he  repeats  it  again  and  again  until  he  knows  it 
thoroughly,  he  retains  his  knowledge,  otherwise  he  does  not.     If 

*  Mattanah  is  the  Hebrew  term  for  a  present. 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  125 

he  does  this,  however,  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  Himself, 
prepares  a  meal  for  him,  as  may  be  seen  from  the  end  of  the 
passage  quoted. 

R.  Hyya  bar  Abba  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan :  It  is 
written  [Proverbs  xxvii.  18]:  "  Whoso  guardeth  the  fig-tree  will 
eat  its  fruit."  Why  are  the  words  of  the  Law  compared  to  a 
fig-tree  ?  As  a  fig-tree  yields  its  fruit  whenever  it  is  shaken,  so 
does  the  Law  always  yield  new  teachings  whenever  it  is  repeated. 

R.  Samuel  ben  Na'hmeni  said :  It  is  written  [Proverbs  v. 
19]:  "Let  her  bosom  satisfy  thee  abundantly  at  all  times." 
Why  is  the  Law  compared  to  a  bosom  ?  Because  as  at  all  times 
when  the  child  desires  to  suck,  the  bosom  yields  its  milk,  so  does 
the  Law  yield  its  teachings  every  time  it  is  perused.  Further,  it  is 
written  [ibid.]  :  "  With  her  love  be  thou  ravished*  continually." 
This  means  to  imply  as  was  said  of  R.  Elazar  ben  P'dath, 
that  when  he  was  studying  the  Law  in  the  lower  market  of  Sep- 
phoris,  his  clothes  were  frequently  found  in  the  upper  market ; 
so  engrossed  was  he  in  his  studies,  that  he  did  not  even  miss  his 
clothes.  Said  R.  Itz'hak  ben  Eliezer:  "  Once  a  man  attempted 
to  steal  the  clothes  of  this  R.  Eliezer  and  found  an  adder  lying 
on  top  of  them." 

The  disciples  of  R.  Anan  taught :  It  is  written  [Judges  v. 
10] :  "  Ye  that  ride  on  white  asses,  ye  that  sit  in  judgment,  and 
ye  who  walk  on  the  way,  utter  praise!  "  "  That  ride  on  white 
asses"  refers  to  scholars  who  go  from  town  to  town  and  from 
country  to  country  to  teach  the  Law  and  who  make  it  clear  as 
daylight.  "  That  sit  in  judgment  "  refers  to  those  who  give  a 
just  verdict  which  is  truly  just.  "Who  walk  "  refers  to  those 
who  study  the  Bible,  "  on  the  way"  refers  to  the  students  of 
the  Mishna,  and  "  utter  praise  "  refers  to  the  students  of  the 
Talmud,  whose  every  utterance  is  concerning  the  Law. 

R.  Shezbi  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Elazar  ben  Azariah :  It  is 
written  [Proverbs  xii.  27]:  "The  indolent  roasteth  not  that 
which  he  hath  caught  in  hunting."  This  signifies,  that  one 
who  studies  the  Law  superficially  merely  to  delude  people  but 
does  not  study  it  thoroughly  and  repeat  it  often,  will  not  retain 
the  knowledge  nor  will  he  live  long.  R.  Shesheth,  however, 
said:  "  A  man  of  that  kind  is  not  wicked,  but  merely  foolish; 
on  the  other  hand  a  prudent  man,  who  studies  many  things  and 


*  The  Hebrew  term  for  "  ravished  "  in  the  verse  is  Tishgeh,  which  means  also 
"  thou  shalt  err." 


126  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

makes  marks,  so  that  he  will  not  forget  what  he  had  learned, 
retains  his  knowledge  and  will  have  long  life." 

When  R.  Dimi  came  from  Palestine  he  said:  The  verse 
quoted  is  a  simile  to  a  man  who  catches  birds.  If  he  pinions 
the  wings  of  those  he  catches,  he  can  proceed  and  catch  more, 
otherwise  they  will  escape.  The  same  applies  to  a  man  who 
studies  the  Law.  If  he  reviews  his  learning  constantly,  he 
retains  it  and  can  proceed ;  if  he  does  not,  however,  he  cannot 
retain  it. 

Rabha  in  the  name  of  Sechorah  quoting  R.  Huna  said:  "  It 
is  written  [Proverbs  xiii.  ii]:  "  Wealth  gotten  by  vain  deeds  will 
be  diminished ;  but  he  that  gathereth  by  close  labor  will  increase 
it."  Which  means:  If  a  man  groups  the  ordinances  he  has 
learned,  he  cannot  retain  them ;  but  if  he  gathers  them  slowly 
and  deliberately,  he  will  constantly  increase  them."  And 
Rabha  said:  "  The  Rabbis  know  of  this  and  yet  they  pay  no 
attention  to  it."  Said  R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak:  "  I  have  acted 
accordingly  and  in  consequence  I  have  retained  my  knowledge." 

The  Rabbis  taught:  "  How  was  the  method  of  teaching  the 
Law  in  the  days  of  Moses  ?"  Moses  learned  the  Law  from  the 
might  of  God.  Then  Aaron  entered  and  Moses  taught  him  a 
chapter.  When  Aaron  had  finished  he  sat  down  to  the  left  of 
Moses  and  his  children  came  in,  when  Moses  would  teach  them 
the  chapter  again.  When  they  had  finished,  Elazar  would  sit 
down  to  the  right  of  Moses  and  Ithamar  to  the  left  of  Aaron. 
R.  Jehudah,  however,  said,  that  Aaron  would  always  sit  to  the 
right  of  Moses  after  his  children  had  finished.  Following  the 
sons  of  Aaron  would  come  the  elders  of  Israel  and  Moses  would 
repeat  the  chapter  to  them.  After  the  elders  had  finished,  the 
rest  of  the  Israelites  who  wished  to  learn  would  enter  and  would 
learn  the  same  chapter.  Thus  we  see,  that  Aaron  heard  the 
same  chapter  four  times,  his  sons  three  times,  the  elders  twice, 
and  the  rest  of  the  people  once.  After  the  last  reading  Moses 
would  depart  and  Aaron  would  again  repeat  the  chapter  to  the 
others ;  then  he  would  depart  and  his  children  would  teach  the 
chapter;  after  them  the  elders  would  do  so,  so  that  no  one  heard 
it  less  than  four  times.  From  this  R.  Eliezer  deduced,  that 
every  teacher  should  recite  his  teaching  to  his  disciples  four 
times,  holding  that  as  Aaron  who  learned  from  Moses,  who  in 
turn  learned  from  the  might  of  God,  had  to  learn  one  thing  four 
times  so  much  more  ought  an  ordinary  man  to  do  so  when  learn- 
ing from  another. 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  127 

R.  Aqiba,  however,  said:  Whence  do  we  adduce,  that  a 
teacher  should  teach  his  disciple  until  the  latter  knows  the  lesson 
thoroughly?  From  the  verse  [Deut.  xxxi.  19]:  "Now  there- 
fore write  ye  for  yourselves  this  song,  and  teach  it  the  children 
of  Israel,"  and  whence  do  we  infer,  that  a  disciple  must  be 
taught  until  he  can  impart  the  teaching  to  others  ?  From  what 
is  written  further  [ibid.]:  "  put  it  in  their  mouth,"  and  whence 
do  we  know,  that  if  the  reasons  for  the  teaching  can  be  given, 
this  must  be  done  ?  From  the  verse  [Exod.  xxi.  i] :  "And 
these  are  the  laws  of  justice  which  thou  shalt  set  before  them," 
and  by  setting  before  them  is  meant  that  they  must  be  thor- 
oughly explained. 

Why  did  not  all  learn  directly  from  Moses  ?  In  order  to 
show  honor  to  Aaron,  his  children  and  the  elders.  If  that  be 
so,  let  Aaron  learn  it  from  Moses,  Aaron's  children  from  Aaron, 
and  the  elders  from  the  children,  then  the  people  from  the  elders  ? 
Because  Moses  learned  from  the  might  of  God,  all  wished  to 
hea'r  it  from  him. 

R.  Preida  had  a  disciple,  whom  he  would  teach  a  thing  four 
hundred  times  and  then  the  disciple  would  understand  it.  One 
day  R.  Preida  was  invited  to  attend  the  celebration  of  a  circum- 
cision and  as  he  was  just  teaching  his  disciple,  he  finished  the 
teaching  for  the  four  hundredth  time  but  still  the  disciple  did 
not  understand.  So  he  asked  him:  "  What  is  the  difficulty  ?" 
and  the  disciple  replied,  that  from  the  moment  the  master  was 
invited  to  the  celebration,  he  could  not  pay  proper  attention, 
thinking  that  every  moment  he  would  be  going  away.  So  R. 
Preida  said:  "Pay  proper  attention  and  I  will  teach  thee 
again,"  and  he  accordingly  repeated  the  teaching  another  four 
hundred  times.  A  heavenly  voice  was  heard  at  that  time  which 
said:  "  What  wouldst  thou  rather,  that  thou  live  another  four 
hundred  years,  or  that  thou  and  the  entire  generation  in  which 
thou  livest  should  be  given  a  share  in  the  world  to  come."  R. 
Preida  answered:  "  I  would  rather  accept  the  latter  proposition." 
Said  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He:  "  Give  him  both." 

R.  Hisda  said:  The  law  cannot  be  retained  except  through 
signs,  as  it  is  written  (as  quoted  previously):  "  Put  it  in  their 
mouth."  Read:  "  Put  it  with  signs  in  their  mouth."  R. 
Tachlipha  of  Palestine  heard  this  and  on  his  arrival  home 
repeated  it  in  the  presence  of  R.  Abbahu.  Said  R.  Abbahu: 
Ye  learn  this  from  that  verse,  but  we  derive  the  same  from  the 
verse  [Jeremiah  xxxi.  21]:  "  Set  thyself  up  way-marks,"  mean- 


128  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

ing,  set  up  way-marks  to  the  Law ;  this  is  in  accordance  with  the 
dictum  of  Abhdimi  bar  Hama  bar  Dosa,  viz. :  It  is  written 
[Deut.  XXX.  12],  "  It  is  not  in  heaven,"  meaning  if  it  were  even 
in  heaven,  one  would  have  to  get  it  from  there,  and  [ibid.  13]: 
"Neither  is  it  beyond  the  sea"  implies  that  even  were  ic 
beyond  the  sea,  one  would  have  to  go  after  it  there.  Rabha, 
however,  said:  "It  is  not  in  heaven"  means,  that  knowledge 
cannot  be  found  in  a  man  who  holds  himself  as  high  as  heaven ; 
and  "  Neither  is  it  beyond  the  sea  "  means,  that  knowledge  can- 
not be  found  in  a  man  who  considers  his  opinions  as  vast  as  the 
sea.  R.  Johanan  said  the  first  statement  refers  to  those  who  are 
great  in  their  own  estimation,  and  the  last  statement  to  those 
who  ply  the  seas  and  are  constantly  engaged  in  traffic. 

The  Rabbis  taught :  How  are  the  boundaries  of  a  town  ex- 
tended ?  A  town  that  is  oblong  remains  as  it  is.  A  town  in  the 
form  of  a  circle  is  provided  with  corners.  One  that  is  in  the 
form  of  a  square  need  not  be  made  equiangular.  If  it  was  nar- 
row on  one  side  and  wide  on  another  it  must  be  made  even  all 
around  (through  the  formation  of  a  parallelogram).  If  a  house 
or  row  of  buildings  protruded  from  one  of  the  walls  of  the 
town,  a  straight  line  is  drawn  from  the  extreme  end  of  such 
protruding  buildings  parallel  to  the  wall  and  thence  two  thou- 
sand ells  are  measured.  If  the  town  was  in  the  form  of  an  arch 
or  a  right  angle  it  should  be  considered  as  if  the  entire  space 
enclosed  by  the  arch  or  right  angle  were  filled  with  houses  and 
two  thousand  ells  should  be  measured  from  the  extreme  ends. 

R.  Huna  said :  If  a  town  was  in  the  form  of  an  arch  and  the 
distance  between  the  two  ends  of  the  arch  was  less  than  four 
thousand  ells,  the  enclosed  space  is  considered  as  filled  with 
houses  and  two  thousand  ells  may  be  measured  from  the  extreme 
ends.  If  the  distance  was  more  than  four  thousand  ells,  the  two 
thousand  ells  must  be  measured  from  the  centre  of  the  arch. 
What  distance  should  a  man  have  from  his  house  to  the  end 
whence  the  two  thousand  ells  are  measured.  Rabba  bar  R. 
Huna  said :  "  Two  thousand  ells  "  and  Rabha  the  son  of  Rabba 
bar  R.  Huna  said:  "  Even  more  than  two  thousand  ells."  Said 
Abayi:  "It  seems  to  me  that  the  latter  opinion  is  correct, 
because,  if  the  man  chose,  he  could  go  through  all  the  houses 
in  the  arch  to  that  end,  then  why  should  he  not  be  permitted 
to  cross  over  the  space  between  his  house  and  the  end  of  the 
arch  ? ' ' 

Or  if  fragments  of  a   wall  ten  spans  high,  etc.      What  is 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  129 

meant  by  this  ?  R.  Jehudah  said:  "  This  means,  if  there  were 
three  partitions  without  a  roof."  A  question  was  propounded: 
How  was  it  if  there  were  two  partitions  with  a  roof  ?  Come 
and  hear:  These  are  the  things  that  are  counted  in  together 
with  the  town:  A  monument  covering  four  square  ells,  a  bridge, 
a  mausoleum,  a  synagogue  that  has  a  dwelling  for  an  attendant, 
a  church  with  a  vestry,  stables,  and  barns  that  have  a  dwelling 
attached  for  the  keeper,  huts  in  the  field  and  houses  built  on 
islands  of  a  lake,  which  are  not  more  than  seventy  and  two-thirds 
ells  away  from  the  town.  All  these  are  counted  in  together  with 
the  town,  and  following  are  the  things  that  must  not  be  counted 
in  with  the  town  :  A  monument  partly  demolished  on  both  sides, 
a  bridge,  a  burying  ground  without  a  dwelling  on  it,  a  synagogue 
or  church  that  has  no  dwelling  for  the  sextons,  a  stable  or 
barn  that  has  no  dwelling  for  the  keeper,  a  pit,  a  cavern,  a 
fence,  a  dove-cot,  and  a  boathouse;  all  these  are  not  counted 
in  with  the  town."  We  see  then,  that  a  monument  which  had 
been  partially  destroyed  on  both  sides,  must  not  be  counted  in 
with  the  town  ?  Must  we  not  assume  that  it  still  retained  its 
roof  ?  Nay,  this  refers  to  a  monument  that  did  7tot  retain  its 
roof.  Of  what  use  is  a  house  built  on  an  island  ?  Said  R. 
Papa:  "  Those  houses  are  used  to  unload  the  utensils  of  a  ship." 
It  is  said  "  a  cavern  is  not  to  be  counted  in  with  the  town  "  ? 
Did  not  R.  Hyya  teach  that  it  should?  Said  Abayi:  "  R. 
Hyya  refers  to  a  cavern,  that  has  a  building  above  it."  If  that 
is  the  case,  why  mention  the  cavern  ?  The  building  itself  must 
be  counted  in  ?  Here  the  meaning  is,  if  a  building  was  above 
the  cavern,  no  matter  how  far  the  cavern  extended,  it  is  regarded 
as  a  foundation  for  the  house  and  should  be  counted  in. 

R,  Huna  said:  Those  who  live  in  huts  made  of  twigs  may 
measure  the  limit  only  from  their  doors  (even  if  there  are  a 
number  of  those  that  extend  for  over  one  hundred  ells).  Said 
Hinana  the  son  of  R.  Kahana  in  the  name  of  R.  Ashi:  If  in  the 
street  where  the  huts  stood  there  were  three  courts  each  contain- 
ing two  ordinary  buildings,  the  huts  are  given  the  privileges  of  a 

town. 

R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  Those  who  dwell  in 
huts  and  those  who  travel  in  the  deserts  do  not  enjoy  life  and 
their  wives  and  children  are  not  their  own.  We  have  also 
learned  the  same  in  a  Boraitha:  Eliezer  the  man  of  Biria  said: 
Those  who  live  in  huts  are  the  same  as  those  in  a  grave  and  con- 
cerning their  daughters  it  is  said  [Deut.   xxvii.  21]:  "  Cursed  be 

VOL.    III. — 9 


13° 


THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 


he  that  lieth  with  any  manner  of  beast."  Why  is  this  so? 
Said  Ula:  Because  they  have  no  bathhouses  (and  when  the 
men  go  away  to  some  distant  bathhouse  no  one  is  left  to  take 
care  of  the  women).  R.  Johanan  said:  "  Because,  when  the 
women  go  to  take  their  ritual  bath,  they  are  afraid  to  go  alone 
so  long  a  distance ;  hence  they  go  in  company  with  other  women 
and  are  followed  by  evil  men  who  lead  them  astray."  What 
is  the  point  of  difference  between  Ula  and  R.  Johanan  ?  If 
there  is  a  lake  in  the  vicinity,  the  statement  of  R.  Johanan  falls 
to  the  ground,  but  according  to  Ula  even  then,  the  women,  if 
left  alone  by  their  husbands,  are  led  to  sin. 

R.  Hunasaid:"  In  a  town  where  there  are  no  herbs,  a  scholar 
should  not  live  (because  herbs  are  cheap  and  good  food  and  a 
scholar  can  thus  live  economically)."  Shall  we  assume,  that 
herbs  are  such  a  good  thing  ?  Have  we  not  learned  in  a  Borai- 
tha,  that  three  things  cause  much  waste,  cause  a  man's  body 
to  stoop,  and  deprive  a  man  of  one  five-hundredth  of  his  eye- 
sight ?  Those  three  things  are:  coarse  bread,  newly  brewed 
beer,  and  herbs  ?  This  presents  no  difHculty:  R.  Huna  refers  to 
onions,  garlic,  and  fine  herbs,  which  are  necessary,  while  the 
Boraitha  refers  to  bad  herbs. 

R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  In  a  town  that  is  hilly 
and  where  there  are  many  steps  to  ascend  and  descend,  both 
man  and  beast  become  prematurely  aged.  Said  R.  Huna  bar 
R.  Jehoshua:  "  The  towns  of  Bebiri  and  Benaresh,  two  adjoin- 
ing cities,  that  had  may  hills  between  them  caused  their  inhabi- 
tants to  become  prematurely  aged." 

The  Rabbis  taught:  "  If  one  comes  to  make  a  town  square, 
he  must  make  it  as  the  square  of  the  earth,  i.e.,  the  north  must 
be  towards  the  north  of  the  earth,  the  south  towards  the  south, 
and  his  signs  shall  be:  the  zodiac  of  the  Capricorn  in  the  north 
and  that  of  the  scorpion  in  the  south."  Said  R.  Jose:  If  he 
does  not  understand  how  to  make  it  as  the  square  of  the  earth, 
he  should  be  guided  by  the  equinox.  How  so  ?  Where  the 
sun  rises  during  the  long  days  and  sets  during  the  long  days,  it  is 
north  of  the  equator,  and  during  the  short  days,  where  it  rises 
and  sets  it  is  south  of  the  equator,  but  during  the  Nissan  and 
the  Tishri  equinox,  it  rises  half  {i.e.,  directly)  east  and  sets  half 
{i.e.,  directly)  west,  as  it  is  written  [Ecclesiastes  i.  y~\:  "  Going 
toward  the  south  "  during  the  day,  "  and  turning  around  toward 
the  north  "  during  the  night  "  the  wind  moveth  round  about  con- 
tinually," meaning  east  and  west;  at  times  it  goes  through  them 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  131 

and  at  other  times  it  passes  them.  Said  R.  Mesharshia:  All 
these  rules  are  of  no  account,  for  we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha 
that  the  sun  never  rose  in  the  northeast  nor  set  in  the  northwest 
and  the  sun  never  rose  in  the  southeast  nor  set  in  the  south- 
west. 

Samuel  said  :  The  equinox  of  Nissan  can  only  take  place  dur- 
ing one  of  the  four  quarters  of  a  day,  either  at  sunrise,  sunset, 
noon,  or  midnight,  and  the  equinox  of  Tamuz  cannot  take  place 
except  at  one  and  one-half  hours  after  sunrise  or  sunset  or  seven 
and  one-half  hours  after  either.  The  equinox  of  Tishri  takes 
place  only  at  three  or  at  nine  hours  after  either  sunrise  or  sunset, 
and  the  equinox  of  Tebeth  takes  place  only  four  and  one-half 
hours  or  ten  and  one-half  hours  after  either  sunrise  or  sunset. 
There  is  not  more  than  ninety-one  days  seven  and  one-half 
hours  between  each  equinox,  and  they  occur  in  the  first  and 
second  half  of  the  same  hour  respectively.* 

The  Rabbis  taught :  One  who  comes  to  measure  the  city 
should  first  make  it  square  in  the  form  of  a  board.  Afterwards 
he  makes  another  square  of  the  legal  distance  of  two  thousand 
ells  also  in  the  form  of  a  board.  When  he  comes  to  measure 
the  legal  limits  from  the  town,  he  should  not  commence  at  the 
centre  of  a  side  because  then  he  would  lose  the  corner,  for,  if  the 
diagonal  distance  from  one  corner  to  another  is  two  thousand 
ells  the  distance  from  the  one  side  to  the  opposite  will  be  1,428 
ells.  Hence  he  should  make  the  square  two  thousand  ells  from 
one  opposite  side  to  the  other,  and  in  that  event  he  will  gain 
four  hundred  ells  on  each  side.  Then  the  two  legal  limits 
together  will  gain  eight  hundred  ells  on  each  side,  and,  in  conse- 
quence, the  town  together  with  the  limits  will  gain  twelve  hun- 
dred ells  on  each  side.  Said  Abayi:  "  This  can  be  proven  by 
calculating  on  a  city  exactly  two  thousands  ells  square." 

MISHNA:  An  allowance  of  seventy  and  two-thirds  ells  of 
space  must  be  made  to  the  town.  Such  is  the  dictum  of  R. 
Meir;  but  the  sages  hold,  that  such  an  allowance  is  to  be  made 


*  This  is  calculated  by  the  ancient  astronomers  as  follows  :  There  are  seven 
planets,  which  change  with  every  hour  ;  e.g.,  in  the  first  hour  we  have  the  planet  Mer- 
cury, in  the  second  the  Moon,  in  the  third  Saturn,  in  the  fourth  Jupiter,  in  the  fifth 
Mars,  in  the  sixth  the  Sun,  and  in  the  seventh  Venus.  Thus  at  the  end  of  the  91 
days  and  7i  hours  of  the  first  equinox  (of  Nissan),  if  Mercury  is  in  the  ascendant  the 
second  equinox  (that  of  Tamuz)  will  fall  in  the  second  half-hour  of  the  planet  Mer- 
cury, the  third  equinox  (of  Tishri)  will  occur  in  the  first  half-hour  of  the  Moon,  and 
the  last  equinox  (of  Tebeth)  will  fall  in  the  second  half-hour  of  the  Moon,  etc. 


132  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

only  if  two  towns  be  so  close  to  each  other,  that  each  only 
requires  seventy  and  two-thirds  ells  to  bring  them  within  the 
legal  limits ;  in  that  case  an  allowance  is  made  to  both,  so  that 
they  become  as  one.  Thus  also,  if  three  villages  form  a  trian- 
gle, and  the  two  outer  ones  require  141^  ells,  a  double  allowance 
to  bring  them  within  legal  distance  of  each  other,  the  middle 
one  between  the  two  makes  all  one,  so  that  the  three  villages 
become  as  one. 

GEMARA:  Whence  do  we  adduce,  that  an  allowance  should 
be  made  to  the  town  ?  Said  Rabha :  Because  it  is  written 
[Numbers  xxxv.  4] :  "  From  the  wall  of  the  city  and  outward," 
which  implies,  first  leave  a  part  outward  and  then  commence 
to  measure. 

''But  the  sages  hold,''  etc.  It  was  taught:  R.  Huna  said: 
An  allowance  should  be  made  to  each  of  the  two  cities,  and  R, 
Hyya  bar  Rabh  said:  "  Only  one  allowance  is  made  for  both." 
We  have  learned  in  the  Mishna,  however,  that  the  sages  hold, 
such  an  allowance  is  to  be  made  only,  etc.,  whence  we  see  that 
only  one  allowance  is  spoken  of  and  this  would  be  contradic- 
tory to  R.  Huna  ?  R.  Huna  may  say,  that  by  the  allowance  is 
meant  the  law  of  the  allowance,  and  if  the  law  of  allowance  is 
given  at  all,  it  should  be  given  to  each  of  the  two  cities.  It 
seems  to  us,  that  the  explanation  of  R.  Huna  is  correct,  because 
further  on  the  Mishna  states,  that  each  only  requires  seventy 
and  two-thirds,  i.e.,  one  town  requires  seventy  and  two-thirds 
ells  and  the  other  requires  seventy  and  two-thirds  ells,  hence 
the  law  of  allowance  applies  to  each  of  the  two. 

An  objection  was  made  based  upon  the  last  clause  of  the 
Mishna:  If  three  villages  form  a  triangle  and  the  two  outer  ones 
require  141^  ells,  the  middle  one  between  the  two  makes  all 
one;  thus  if  there  were  no  middle  one  the  allowance  for  the  two 
outer  ones  would  not  hold  good,  and  this  would  be  contradictory 
to  R.  Huna,  who  says,  that  the  law  of  the  allowance  should  be 
applied  ?  R.  Huna  might  reply:  It  was  taught,  however,  that 
Rabba  in  the  name  of  R.  Idi  quoting  R.  Hanina  said :  The 
Mishna  does  not  mean  to  state  that  there  must  absolutely  be 
three  villages,  in  a  triangle,  but  even  if  the  third  is  some  distance 
off  and  between  the  two  there  is  sufficient  space  which  would 
permit  of  the  third  village  being  placed  there,  and  the  distance 
from  that  third  village  to  one  of  the  outer  ones  be  141^  ells,  i.e., 
the  quantity  of  two  allowances  of  seventy  and  two-thirds  ells 
each,   this  third    village   makes  the  other  two  as  one.      Then 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  133 

Rabha  asked  of  Abayi:  "  How  far  must  the  third  village  be 
from  the  other  two,  that  it  may  be  counted  in  with  them  ? "  and 
he  answered:  "Two  thousand  ells."  Said  Rabha  to  Abayi: 
"  Didst  thou  not  say  previously,  that  thou  art  of  the  opinion  of 
Rabha  bar  R.  Huna,  who  said  that  it  may  be  even  more  than 
two  thousand  ells  distant?"  Rejoined  Abayi:  "  How  canst 
thou  compare  the  two  ?  In  the  former  instance  there  were 
inhabited  houses,  while  here  there  is  only  empty  space." 

Rabha  asked  Abayi  again  :  "  What  must  the  distance  between 
the  two  outer  villages  be?"  and  he  answered:  "What  is  the 
difference  ?  Thou  hast  heard,  that  if  the  village  standing  at  a 
distance  is  placed  between  the  two  there  would  be  a  distance  of 
141^  ells  to  each  of  the  outer  ones."  "  According  to  that," 
rejoined  Rabha,  "  it  would  not  matter  if  there  were  four  thou- 
sand ells  between  the  two  outer  ones?"  "Yea,"  answered 
Abayi,  "  so  it  is." 

MISHNA:  One  must  not  measure  the  legal  distance  except 
with  a  line  exactly  fifty  ells  long,  no  more  and  no  less ;  and  one 
must  not  measure  in  any  manner  except  from  the  breast.  If 
during  the  measurement  a  deep  dale  (cleft)  or  heap  of  stones  is 
encountered,  the  line  is  passed  over  it  and  the  measurement 
resumed ;  if  a  hillock  is  encountered,  the  line  is  passed  over  it 
(also)  and  the  measurement  resumed,  provided  the  legal  limit  is 
not  overstepped  while  this  is  being  done.  If  the  line  cannot  be 
passed  over  the  hillock  on  account  of  its  height,  R.  Dostai  bar 
Janai  said :  I  have  heard  on  the  authority  of  R.  Meir,  that 
those  who  make  the  measurement  cut  straight  through  the 
mountain  (in  an  imaginary  sense). 

GEMARA:  Whence  do  we  adduce  that  the  line  must  be 
exactly  fifty  ells,  long  ?  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh: 
It  is  written  [Exod.  xxvii.  18]:  "  The  length  of  the  court  shall 
be  one  hundred  ells,  and  the  breadth  fifty  by  fifty,"  and  thus  the 
verse  means  to  say,  that  the  line  should  be  fifty  ells.  Is  this 
verse  not  necessary  in  order  to  teach  us  that  the  excess  of  fifty 
ells  of  length  over  the  breadth  should  be  apportioned  so  as  to 
make  the.court  seventy  ells  and  four  spans  square  ?  (See  page 
73.)  If  such  were  the  case,  the  verse  could  read  ' '  fifty  and  fifty, 
but  from  the  fact  that  it  reads  "  fifty  by  fifty"  we  assume  that 
both  teachings  may  be  adduced. 

"  No  more  and  no  less.''  It  was  taught  in  a  Boraitha:  "  No 
less,"  because  when  the  line  is  taken  up  (by  the  surveyor)  it  may 
be  stretched  a  trifle  (and  it  should    be  only  fifty);    and"  no 


134  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

more,"  for  should  it  be  longer,  it  might  become  entangled  and 
be  shortened  accordingly. 

Said  R.  Assi  (according  to  another  version  R.  Ami):  "  The 
line  must  be  made  only  of  Apaskima."  What  is  an  Apaskima  ? 
Said  R.  Abba:  "  A  Nargila,"  and  what  is  a  Nargila?  Said  R. 
Jacob:  "  The  fibre  of  walnut-trees." 

We  have  learned  in  aBoraitha:  R.  Jehoshua  ben  Hananiah 
said :  There  is  nothing  better  to  measure  with  than  an  iron 
chain ;  but  what  can  be  done,  when  it  is  written  [Zechariah  ii.  5] : 
"  There  was  a  man  with  a  measure-cord  in  his  hand."  It  is 
written,  however  [Ezekiel  xl.  3]  :  "  There  was  a  man,  etc.,  and  a 
measuring  rod."  The  verse  quoted  refers  to  the  measurement 
of  the  gates  of  the  Temple. 

R.  Joseph  taught:  "There  are  three  kinds  of  cord:  One 
made  of  rushes,  one  made  of  willows,  and  one  made  of  flax. 
The  first  kind  of  cord  was  used  to  tie  the  red  heifer  (because  it 
was  not  subject  to  defilement  and  all  things  used  in  connection 
with  the  red  heifer  had  to  be  not  subject  to  defilement)  as  we 
have  learned  (in  Tract  Parah):  "  She  was  tied  with  cord  made 
of  rushes  and  was  laid  on  the  spot  where  she  was  to  be  burned." 
The  second  kind  was  used  for  tying  a  woman  who  was  to  stand 
the  bitter  water  test  as  we  have  learned  in  a  Mishna  (Tract 
Sotah) :  Then  an  Egyptian  rope  was  tied  above  her  breast  (an 
Egyptian  rope  was  made  of  willows).  The  third  kind  was  used 
for  measuring. 

' '  If  during  the  measurement  a  deep  dale,  etc.,  was  encountered, ' ' 
etc.  From  the  statement  of  the  Mishna  that  after  passing  over 
it  the  measurement  is  resumed,  we  must  assume,  that  if  the  sur- 
veyor cannot  pass  over  it  with  a  line  fifty  ells  long,  he  must  go 
to  a  place  where  it  is  possible  for  him  to  do  so,  and  after  passing 
over  it,  should  resume  the  measurement  at  the  original  place  as 
nearly  as  possible  on  a  level  with  the  place  where  he  had  left  off 
at  the  other  location.     ^ 

This  is  identical  with  the  teaching  of  the  Rabbis  as  follows : 
"  If  during  the  measurement  the  surveyor  come  to  a  cleft,  and 
can  pass  over  it  with  a  line  fifty  ells  long,  he  should  do  so.  If, 
however,  he  cannot  do  this,  he  should  go  to  another  place  where 
this  would  be  possible  and  resume  his  measurement  at  the  orig- 
inal place  as  nearly  as  possible  on  a  level  with  the  place  where 
he  had  left  off  at  the  other  location.  Should,  however,  the  cleft 
be  sloping  so  that  he  can  cross  over  it  without  difificulty  he 
should  measure  it  by  drawing  an  imaginary  line  straight  across 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  135 

the  cleft  and  do  this  successively  both  up  hill  and  down.  If  he 
come  to  a  wall,  he  must  not  cut  through  the  wall  but  must  esti- 
mate its  thickness,  and  after  allowing  sufficient  distance  for  it,  he 
should  resume  his  measurement."  We  have  learned,  however, 
that  he  should  cut  through  it  (in  an  imaginary  sense),  why  do 
they  say  that  he  should  estimate  its  thickness  ?  In  the  former 
instance  the  case  referred  to  is  where  the  wall  was  impassable, 
while  in  this  instance  the  surveyor  can  circumvene  it. 

Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  "  Under  what  cir- 
cumstances are  these  rules  concerning  passing  over  (a  cleft)  or 
cutting  straight  through  to  be  applied  ?  If  the  line  with  a 
weight  attached  to  one  end,  will  not,  when  dropped,  reach  bot- 
tom. If,  however,  the  line  will  reach  bottom,  the  actual  meas- 
urement of  the  cleft  must  be  counted."  What  must  the  depth 
of  the  cleft  be  in  order  that  it  may  be  passed  over  ?  Said  R. 
Joseph:  "  Even  if  it  be  more  than  two  thousand  ells  deep." 
According  to  whose  opinion  is  this  teaching  of  R.  Joseph  ? 
Have  we  not  learned  in  a  Boraitha,  that  if  the  cleft  is  one  hun- 
dred ells  deep  and  fifty  wide  it  may  be  passed  over  but  not  if  it 
be  more  ?  while  the  anonymous  teachers  hold,  even  if  it  be 
two  thousand  ells  deep.  Then  R.  Joseph's  teaching  coincides 
neither  with  that  of  the  first  Tana  nor  with  that  of  the  anony- 
mous teachers  ?  The  Boraitha  refers  to  a  case  where  the  depth  of 
the  cleft  cannot  be  sounded  with  the  sounding  line,  while  R. 
Joseph  refers  to  a  case  where  the  sounding  line  can  be  dropped 
straight  down.  If  the  sounding  line  cannot  be  used,  what  dis- 
tance may  he  go  to  find  another  location  for  measuring  ?  Said 
Abimi  and  also  Rami  bar  Ezekiel:  "  Four  ells." 

''  If  a  hillock  is  encountered,"  etc.  Said  Rabha:  "This 
refer  to  a  hillock  with  a  base  of  five  ells  and  a  peak  of  ten  spans; 
but  a  hillock  with  a  base  of  four  ells  and  a  peak  of  ten  spans 
should  be  merely  estimated  and  the  measurement  resumed." 

' '  Providing  the  legal  limit  is  not  overstepped, ' '  etc.  What  is 
the  reason  therefor  ?  Said  R.  Kahana :  In  order  that  it  may 
not  be  said,  that  the  legal  limit  commences  at  the  spot  where 
the  hillock  had  already  been  passed  over  {i.e.,  if  the  hillock  was 
too  wide  to  be  passed  over  in  the  line  of  the  legal  limit  and 
another  place  had  to  be  selected  for  passage,  it  serves  as  a  pre- 
cautionary measure,  in  order  not  to  appear  as  if  the  legal  limit 
commenced  at  the  point  on  the  other  side  of  the  hillock,  which, 
by  virtue  of  its  accessibility,  had  been  selected  for  passage). 

"  If  the  line  cannot  be  passed  over  the  hillock,''  etc.    The  Rab- 


136  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

bis  taught:  "What  is  meant  by  cutting  straight  through  the 
mountain  ? "  The  man  at  the  foot  of  the  mountain  should  hold 
the  line  to  his  breast  and  the  man  at  the  summit  should  hold  it 
to  his  feet.  Said  Abayi :  There  is  a  tradition  to  the  effect,  that 
the  mountain  must  not  be  cut  through  (measured)  except  with 
a  hne  measuring  four  ells. 

Said  R.  Na'hman  in  the  name  of  Rabba  bar  Abbahu :  "  The 
law  of  cutting  through  the  mountains  does  not  apply  in  the  case 
of  the  heifer,  which  must  have  its  neck  broken  (see  Deut.  xxi. 
1-9),  and  not  to  the  cities  of  refuge  (see  Deut.  xix.  2-10 ;  and 
Numbers  xxxv.  6). 

MISHNA:  The  measurement  must  be  undertaken  only  by 
one  who  is  an  expert  (in  measuring  land).  If  the  legal  limit 
was  carried  farther  to  one  place  than  to  another,  the  farther  limit 
is  held  to.  If  one  surveyor  carried  the  limit  farther  than  another, 
the  farther  measurement  is  abided  by.  Even  a  bond-man  or 
bond-woman  must  be  credited  if  testifying,  that  "  Until  here  is 
the  Sabbath-limit  "  ;  for  the  sages  do  not  intend  to  enforce  a  more 
rigorous  observance  (of  the  law)  but  to  make  it  more  lenient. 

GEMARA:  What  is  meant  by,  "the  farther  limit  is  held 
to  "  ?  What  about  the  shorter  limit  ?  Is  that  not  within  the 
limit  ?  The  Mishna  must  be  read :  Even  the  farther  limit  is  also 
held  to. 

' '  If  one  surveyor  carried  the  limit  farther  than  another, ' '  etc. 
Said  Abayi:  "  Provided  the  difference  in  the  distance  does  not 
exceed  the  diagonal  measurement  of  the  town." 

MISHNA:  If  a  town  (originally  the  property)  of  a  single 
individual,  becomes  (property)  of  the  public,  all  the  household- 
ers residing  therein  may  combine  in  preparing  the  Erub.  If  the 
town  originally  was  public  property  and  becomes  the  property  of 
an  individual,  all  the  householders  must  not  join  in  the  Erub, 
unless  a  number  of  dwellings  outside  of  the  city  was  not 
included  in  the  Erub  made  by  the  town  proper,  which  number 
was  equal  to  the  new  town  in  Judaea;  i.e.,  containing  fifty  dwell- 
ings. Such  is  the  dictum  of  R.  Jehudah;  R.  Simeon,  however, 
holds,  that  it  is  sufficient  if  three  courts  each  containing  two 
houses  were  not  included. 

GEMARA  :  The  Rabbis  taught :  What  is  meant  by  originally 
the  property  of  a  single  individual,  and  become  property  of  the 
public?  Said  R.  Jehudah:  "For  instance,  the  district  of  the 
Exilarch."  Rejoined  R.  Na'hman:  "Why  dost  thou  mention 
the  district  of  the   Exilarch,  because  many  people  come  there 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  137 

and  it  thus  becomes  like  public  ground ;  but  the  seat  of  govern- 
ment being  there,  it  will  serve  as  a  reminder,  that  there  is  a  law 
against  carrying  on  the  Sabbath  ?  Still  even  in  a  place  where 
many  Israelites  congregate  on  the  Sabbath,  even  if  the  seat  of 
government  is  not  there,  they  will  remind  each  other  of  the  law  ? 
Therefore,"  continued  R.  Na'hman,  "  (it  is  not  necessary  that 
the  district  be  the  property  of  the  Exilarch)  it  may  be  like  the 
district  of  Nathazai,  who  owned  a  whole  town." 

The  Rabbis  taught :  In  a  town,  originally  the  property  of  an 
individual,  which  had  become  public  property,  containing  a  wide 
street,  how  should  an  Erub  be  made  ?  Either  a  side-beam  or  a 
cross-beam  must  be  erected  at  each  end  of  the  street  (providing 
the  town  was  not  surrounded  by  walls)  and  it  is  permitted  to 
carry  throughout  the  street.  It  is  not  permitted,  however,  for 
one  half  of  the  town  to  combine  in  an  Erub  (because  the  city, 
having  at  one  time  been  the  property  of  an  individual,  the  other 
half  will  prove  a  bar  to  those  who  have  combined  in  the  Erub). 
Either  the  whole  town  must  combine  an  Erub,  or  each  entry 
must  make  an  Erub  for  itself.  If,  however,  the  entire  town  was 
at  all  times  public  property,  and  have  but  one  exit,  an  Erub  may 
be  combined  for  the  whole  town. 

Who  is  the  Tana  who  holds,  that  even  for  the  wide  street 
an  Erub  may  be  effected  ?  Said  R.  Huna  the  son  of  R.  Je- 
hoshua:  This  is  according  to  R.  Jehudah,  as  we  have  learned  in 
a  Boraitha:  "  Moreover,  R.  Jehudah  said:  '  A  man  having  two 
houses,  one  at  each  end  of  a  wide  street,  may  make  a  cross  or 
a  side  beam  at  each  end  of  the  street  and  is  allowed  to  carry 
throughout  the  street,'  and  the  sages  rejoined:  '  Such  an  Erub 
is  not  sufficient  for  a  wide  street.*  " 

The  Master  said:  "It  is  not  permitted  for  one  half  the 
town  to  combine  an  Erub."  Said  R.  Papa:  This  prohibition 
refers  to  an  Erub  made  lengthwise  in  half  the  town  but  in  the 
breadth  of  half  the  town  (which  contained  one  of  the  two  exits 
of  the  whole  town)  it  is  allowed. 

The  Master  said :  "  Either  the  whole  town  must  combine  an 
Erub  or  each  entry  must  make  an  Erub  for  itself."  Why  should 
an  Erub  not  be  effected  in  one  half  of  the  town,  because  the 
other  half  might  prove  a  bar  ?  Why  should  one  entry  then  not 
prove  a  bar  to  another  ?  Each  entry  may  erect  a  door  for  itself, 
which  will  signify  that  there  is  no  connection  with  the  others. 
This  is  identical  with  the  statement  of  R.  Idi  bar  Abin  in  the 
*•    name  of  R.  Hisda,  viz.  :  If  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  an  entry 


138  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

made  a  door  to  his  court,  he  demonstrates  thereby  that  he  has 
no  connection  with  the  other  inhabitants  and  consequently  does 
not  make  the  Erub  of  the  others  invaHd. 

' '  If  the  toivn  was  originally  public  property  and  became  the 
property  of  an  individual,'"  etc.  R.  Zera  made  an  Erub  in  the  city 
where  lived  R.  Hyya,  that  included  the  whole  city  and  did  not 
leave  out  any  part  thereof.  Asked  Abayi :  "  Why  did  Master  do 
this  ?  Why  did  he  not  leave  out  a  part  of  it  ? "  Answered  R. 
Zera:  "  The  elders  of  the  city  told  me,  that  R.  Hyya  bar  Assi 
once  combined  an  Erub  for  the  entire  city,  so  I  thought  that  at 
one  time  the  city  was  individual  property  and  then  became  the 
property  of  the  public."  Rejoined  Abayi:  "The  same  elders 
told  me,  that  at  one  time  a  pile  of  dirt  blocked  one  of  the 
entrances  so  that  only  one  remained ;  hence  R.  Hyya  bar  Ashi 
made  the  Erub  for  the  entire  city.  Now,  however,  the  dirt  has 
been  removed  and  the  city  never  was  individual  property  "  ;  and 
R.  Zera  answered :  I  did  not  know  this. 

R.  Ami  bar  Ada  of  Harphan  asked  Rabba:  "  What  is  the 
law  concerning  a  town  that  had  one  entrance  by  means  of  a  door 
and  another  by  means  of  a  ladder?"  He  answered:  "  Rabh 
said,  that  a  ladder  is  in  law  accounted  the  same  as  a  door." 
Said  R.  Na'hman  to  them :  "  Do  not  heed  him ;  for  thus  said  R. 
Ada  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  '  A  ladder  combines  within  itself  the 
two  uses,  that  of  a  door  and  that  of  a  partition.'  The  latter  if 
it  is  on  the  outside  of  the  city  and  is  hence  not  accounted  as  a 
door  and  when  it  stands  between  two  courts  it  can  be  accounted 
as  a  partition,  thus  enabling  the  courts  to  make  separate  Erubin, 
or  it  can  be  accounted  as  a  door  and  both  courts  may  combine 
in  effecting  one  Erub." 

R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said:  "  If  an  entire  wall 
was  made  of  ladders  even  though  it  be  wider  than  ten  ells,  it  is 
nevertheless  a  lawful  partition."  R.  Brona  contradicted  R. 
Jehudah,  standing  at  the  wine-cellar  of  R.  Hanina's  house: 
How  canst  thou  say,  that  Samuel  held  the  ladders  to  constitute 
a  partition,  did  not  R.  Na'hman  say  in  the  name  of  Samuel :  "  If 
the  people  living  in  attics  of  courts,  which  contain  balconies,  and 
who  are  obliged  to  descend  by  means  of  ladders  to  the  court, 
had  forgotten  to  combine  an  Erub  with  the  people  below,  they 
do  not  render  the  Erub  of  the  people  below  invalid,  providing 
their  ladders  have  apertures  at  least  four  spans  high  ?  "  This  is 
the  case  if  the  balconies  were  not  over  ten  spans  high.  If  the 
balconies  were  not  over  ten  spans  of  what  use  are  the  apertures  ? 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  139 

If  the  balconies  were  provided  with  railing  and  ten  ells  were  left 
vacant  and  a  small  door  was  erected  in  that  vacant  space,  it  sig- 
nifies, that  there  is  no  connection  between  the  inhabitants  of  the 
attics  and  those  of  the  court;  hence  they  do  not  prove  a  bar  to 
each  other. 

The  inhabitants  of  Kakunai  came  before  R.  Joseph  and 
asked  him  to  give  them  a  man  to  effect  an  Erub  for  them  in  their 
city.  He  accordingly  said  to  Abayi :  "  Go  and  make  an  Erub 
for  them,  but  see  that  it  provoke  no  comment  from  the  college." 
He  went  and  saw  that  some  houses  of  the  city  faced  a  lake  and 
had  no  other  entrance.  "  I  will  make  an  Erub,  but  will  exclude 
these  houses,"  said  he.  Subsequently  it  occurred  to  him,  that 
an  Erub  must  not  be  made  for  the  entire  city,  at  the  same  time 
it  was  possible  to  do  this;  with  these  houses,  however  (that 
faced  the  lake),  it  was  an  impossibility.  Consequently  he  desired 
that  apertures  be  made  in  those  houses  facing  the  streets,  thereby 
making  it  possible  for  them  to  make  an  Erub  and  then  to 
exclude  them,  in  which  event  the  Erub  for  the  entire  city  would 
be  valid.  Then  he  concluded  that  even  those  apertures  were 
unnecessary,  because  Rabba  bar  Abbahu  made  an  Erub  for  the 
entire  city  of  Mehuzza,  which  was  composed  of  several  rows  of 
entries  and  between  each  row  there  was  a  ditch  used  for  the 
storing  of  kernels  of  dates  to  be  used  as  fodder.  He  made  an 
Erub  for  each  row  and  permitted  the  carrying  of  things  in  each 
entry  and  from  one  entry  into  another  without  erecting  either 
cross  or  side  beams.  He  did  this  on  account  of  the  ditches 
between  the  rows,  which  ditches  prevented  crossing  over  from 
one  row  to  the  other  and  the  town  having  been  originally  public 
property  and  subsequently  having  become  the  property  of  an 
individual,  in  which  case  part  of  the  town  must  be  excluded  from 
participation  in  the  Erub,  he  held  that  by  virtue  of  the  inacces- 
sibility of  one  row  to  the  other  on  account  of  the  intervening 
ditches,  one  row  became  the  excluded  part  to  the  other,  and  vice 
versa. 

Suddenly  it  occurred  to  him  again,  that  the  rows  of  entries 
might  have  had  protruding  roofs,  which  would  make  communica- 
tion with  each  other  possible,  hence  they  were  enabled  to  make 
an  Erub;  but  in  the  case  of  those  houses  that  could  not  make  an 
independent  Erub,  he  again  concluded  that  apertures  were  nec- 
essary. Finally,  however,  he  recollected,  that  Mar  the  son  of 
Pipidatha  of  Pumbaditha  made  an  Erub  for  the  entire  city  of 
Pumbaditha  and  merely  excluded  his  straw-shed  underneath  the 


I40  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

city.  Hence  he  again  concluded,  that  no  apertures  for  the 
houses  were  necessary.  In  conclusion  he  said  :  "  I  see  now,  after 
all  this  trouble,  why  my  master  cautioned  me  against  provoking 
the  comment  of  the  colleges." 

' '  R.  Simeon,  however,  holds,  that  it  is  sufficient,  if  three 
courts,"  etc.  Said  R.  Hama  bar  Guria  in  the  name  of  Rabh: 
"  The  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.Simeon."  R.  Itz'hak, 
however,  said,  that  one  house  in  one  court  is  sufficient. 

Asked  Abayi  of  R.  Joseph:  "Whence  does  R.  Itz'hak 
adduce  his  statement?  From  a  tradition  or  an  opinion?" 
Answered  R.  Joseph :  What  is  the  difference  ?  (The  Halakha 
prevails  according  to  R.  Simeon  ?)  Rejoined  Abayi :  Shall  we 
learn  the  Gemara  as  we  do  a  song  ? 

MISHNA:  Should  a  man  (on  the  eve  of  Sabbath)  be  at  the 
east  of  his  domicile  and  say  to  his  son:  "  Place  my  Erub  towards 
the  west,"  or  being  at  the  west  of  his  domicile  say  to  his  son: 
"  Place  my  Erub  towards  the  east":  if  the  distance  from  the 
place  where  he  stands  to  his  domicile  be  within  two  thousand 
ells  and  to  his  Erub  farther  than  that,  he  must  take  his  Sabbath- 
rest  at  his  domicile,  but  must  not  take  it  where  his  Erub  is  depos- 
ited ;  if  the  distance  to  his  Erub,  however,  be  within  two  thou- 
sand ells,  and  to  his  domicile  farther  than  that,  he  must  take  his 
Sabbath-rest  where  his  Erub  is  placed  and  not  at  his  domicile. 
If  a  man  has  deposited  his  Erub  within  the  limits  (allowance  of 
seventy  and  two-thirds  ells)  of  a  town,  he  has  (legally)  accom- 
plished nothing  and  it  counts  for  nothing;  if  he,  however, 
deposited  the  Erub  outside  of  the  legal  limit,  be  it  but  a  single 
ell,  whatever  ground  he  gains  in  one  direction,  he  loses  in  the 
opposite  direction. 

GEMARA:  What  is  meant  by  "towards  the  east"? 
"  Towards  the  east  of  his  son  "  said  R.  Itz'hak,  "  and  towards 
the  west  also  of  his  son."  Rabba  bar  R.  Shila, 
however,  says,  that  both  "  towards  the  east  " 
and  "towards  the  west"  refer  to  the  house, 
but  the  question  will  arise  how  will  it  be  pos- 
sible for  the  house  to  be  farther  than  the  Erub, 
because  if  he  told  his  son  to  make  an  Erub 
there,  the  son  must  have  stood  between  the  house  and  the 
Erub  ?  In  this  case,  the  house  was  diagonally  opposite  the  place 
where  the  son  stood  while  the  Erub  was  directly  opposite  (as 
shown  in  illustration). 

"  If  he,  however,  deposited  the  Erub  outside  of  the  legal  limit, 


Mr 

\ 

nm 

\ 

\ 

mm 

\ 

'z:^ 

TRACT    ERUBIN.  141 

etc.  Is  it  possible  to  assume,  that  he  really  overstepped  the 
legal  limit?  Read:  "If  he  placed  the  Erub  outside  of  the 
seventy  and  two-thirds  ells  allowed  the  town." 

Whatever  ground  he  gai?is  in  one  direction,  he  loses  in  the 
opposite.''  He  loses  only  what  he  gains,  no  more?  Have  we 
not  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  "If  he  placed  his  Erub  within  the 
allowance  (of  seventy  and  two-thirds  ells)  of  the  city,  he  has 
accomplished  nothing  and  it  counts  for  naught ;  if,  however,  he 
placed  his  Erub  outside  of  such  allowance  even  one  ell,  he  loses 
(his  right  to)  the  whole  city,  because  the  measure  of  the  city  will 
be  counted  to  him  in  the  legal  limit  effected  by  the  Erub  "  ? 

This  presents  no  difficulty.  According  to  the  Boraitha,  he 
loses  the  whole  city  only  when  the  two  thousand  ells  of  his  limit 
terminate  in  the  centre  of  the  city;  but  if  they  terminate  at  the 
end  of  the  city,  which  is  the  case  in  our  Mishna,  he  loses  nothing, 
as  R.  Idi  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Jehoshua  ben  Levi:  If  he 
measured  the  limit  and  it  terminated  in  the  centre  of  a  town,  he 
has  only  half  the  town ;  but  if  it  terminated  at  the  end  of  the 
town,  the  Avhole  town  becomes  as  four  ells  and  he  may  complete 
his  entire  limit  of  two  thousand  ells  outside  of  the  town."  R. 
Idi  said,  however:  "  This  is  merely  a  prophetic  assertion!  For 
what  is  the  difference  whether  it  terminate  in  the  centre  of  the 
city  or  at  the  end!"  Said  Rabha:  "This  is  by  no  means  a 
prophetic  assertion.  Thou  wilt  learn  this  in  the  succeeding 
Mishna." 

R.  Joseph  said  in  the  name  of  Rami  bar  Abba  quoting  R. 
Huna:  "  If  a  town  was  standing  on  the  steep  banks  of  a  lake 
and  there  was  a  partition  made  on  the  brink  of  the  banks  four 
ells  high,  the  measurement  of  the  legal  limits  may  be  com- 
menced from  that  partition.  If  there  was  no  partition,  how- 
ever, the  measurement  must  be  commenced  from  the  entrance  of 
the  house  (nearest  the  lake)."  Said  Abayi :  "Why  dost  thou 
require  in  this  case  a  partition  four  ells  high  ?  Generally  four 
spans  are  sufficient!"  Because  usually,  no  fear  is  entertained 
as  to  the  use  of  the  place,  while  in  this  case  there  is  constant 
fear  of  falling  over  the  banks  (hence  that  place  cannot  be  taken 
into  consideration  and  the  measurement  must  be  made  from  the 
houses). 

Said  R.  Joseph :  Whence  do  I  adduce  this  teaching  ?  From 
the  following  Boraitha:  "  Rabbi  permitted  the  inhabitants  of 
Gadar  to  descend  to  Hamtan  but  forbade  the  people  of  Hamtan 
to  ascend  to  Gadar."     Why  did  Rabbi  decree  thus  ?     We  must 


142  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

assume,  because  the  inhabitants  of  Gadar  (who  lived  above  the 
people  of  Hamtan  on  the  slope  of  a  mountain)  made  a  partition 
at  the  foot  of  their  city  while  the  inhabitants  of  the  city  of 
Hamtan  did  not  make  a  partition  at  the  foot  of  their  city;  hence 
Gadar  which  had  a  partition  was  safe  from  falling,  and  the  legal 

limit,  which   was  measured    from    any   part    of   the  city 
^  included  Hamtan,  but  the  people  of  Hamtan,  which  had 

no  partition  and  was  consequently  not  safe,  could  measure 

their  legal  limits  only  from  their  houses  and  thus  it  did 

not  include  the  city  of  Gadar. 

When  R.  Dimi  came  from  Palestine,  however,  he 
assigned  a  different  reason  for  the  above  Boraitha,  saying: 
"  Rabbi  decreed  thus,  because  the  Gadarites  would  maltreat  the 
Hamtanites ;  hence  he  prohibited  the  latter  to  ascend  to  Gadar 
on  a  Sabbath."  Why  on  Sabbath,  why  not  also  on  a  week-day! 
Because  on  Sabbath  there  is  more  drunkenness  (and  in  conse- 
quence more  brutality).  Why  did  he  then  permit  the  Gadarites 
to  descend  to  Hamtan  ?  Cannot  they  maltreat  the  Hamtanites 
even  there  ?  Because  a  dog  that  has  no  home  will  not  bark 
even  in  seven  years  (meaning  that  in  their  own  homes  the  Ham- 
tanites could  better  protect  themselves).  Is  there  not  danger, 
however,  that  the  Hamtanites  will  maltreat  the  Gadarites  ?  The 
Hamtanites  would  not  dare  do  this  (because  they  were  in  the 
minority). 

R.  Safra  said :  There  is  a  different  reason  for  the  Boraitha, 
viz. :  The  city  of  Gadar  was  built  in  the  form  of  an  arch  and  the 
two  ends  of  the  arch  were  more  than  four  thousand  ells  apart. 
We  have  learned  in  connection  with  this  that  the  legal  limits 
must  be  measured  from  the  houses  of  the  individuals;  hence 
when  the  inhabitants  of  Gadar  measured  their  limit,  it  included 
the  city  of  Hamtan,  but  when  the  people  of  Hamtan,  who  were 
opposite  the  space  of  the  arch,  measured  their  limit,  it  termi- 
nated in  the  empty  space  between  the  two  sides  of  the  arch,  and 
that  space  being  over  four  thousand  ells,  could  not  be  counted  as 
part  of  the  city. 

R.  Dimi  bar  Hinana  said :  (There  is  another  reason  for  the 
Boraitha.)  The  city  of  Gadar  was  a  large  city  whereas  Ham- 
tan was  a  small  town  and  the  laws  concerning  this  will  be 
explained  in  the  following  Mishna. 

MISHNA:  The  inhabitants  of  a  large  town  may  traverse 
the  whole  of  a  small  town  (within  or  adjoining  their  legal  limits) ; 
but  the  inhabitants  of  the  small  town  must  (not)  traverse  the 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  143 

whole  extent  of  the  large  town.  How  then  ?  If  an  inhabitant 
of  the  large  town  place  his  Erub  in  the  small  town,  or  an  inhab- 
itant of  the  small  town  place  his  Erub  in  the  large  town,  each 
may  traverse  either  town  and  proceed  two  thousand  ells  beyond 
its  boundaries.  R.  Aqiba  said  :  "  One  has  only  the  right  to  pro- 
ceed two  thousand  ells  from  the  place  where  he  deposited  his 
Erub."  Said  R.  Aqiba  to  the  sages:  "  Will  ye  not  admit,  that  in 
"the  case  of  one  who  deposits  his  Erub  in  a  cavern,  that  he  has 
not  the  right  to  proceed  further  than  two  thousand  ells  from  the 
place  where  he  has  deposited  his  Erub  ?  "  They  replied  :  "  True ; 
but  when  is  this  the  case  ?  If  there  are  no  dwellings  in  the 
cavern ;  but  if  there  are  dwellings  within  it,  he  may  not  only 
traverse  the  whole  extent  of  the  cavern,  but  also  proceed  two 
thousand  ells  outside  of  it."  (Hence,  it  may  be  seen)  that  the 
ordinance  is  less  rigid  as  to  the  interior  of  a  cavern,  than  to  the 
space  above  it. 

Concerning  one  who  measures  (previously  mentioned)  he  is 
only  allowed  to  carry  the  legal  limits  two  thousand  ells  from  the 
place  whence  he  started,  even  though  the  end  of  his  measure- 
ment terminate  in  a  cavern. 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  If 
one  took  his  Sabbath-rest  in  an  abandoned  city,  he  may  traverse 
the  entire  extent  of  the  city  and  two  thousand  ells  besides ;  but 
if  he  deposited  his  Erub  in  that  city,  he  only  has  two  thousand 
ells  from  that  Erub.  R.  Elazar,  however,  said,  whether  he 
merely  took  his  rest  there  or  deposited  his  Erub,  he  may  traverse 
the  entire  extent  of  the  city  and  two  thousand  ells  outside 
of  it. 

An  objection  was  made  based  upon  the  statement  of  R. 
Aqiba  addressed  to  the  sages:  "  Will  ye  not  admit,  that  in  the 
case  of  one  who  deposits  his  Erub  in  a  cavern,  that  he  has  not 
the  right  to  proceed  further  than  two  thousand  ells  from  the 
place  where  he  has  deposited  his  Erub  ? ' '  and  their  reply :  ' '  True ; 
but  when  is  this  the  case  ?  If  there  are  no  dwellings  in  the 
cavern."  Thus  we  see,  that  if  there  are  no  dwellings  within  it, 
the  sages  agree  with  R.  Aqiba  ?  (How  then  can  R.  Elazar  say, 
that  one  may  traverse  the  whole  extent  of  the  city  and  two  thou- 
sand ells  beyond  ?)  By  the  statement  "  if  there  are  no  dwellings 
in  the  cavern  "  the  sages  mean  to  say,  if  there  is  no  room  for 
dwellings  in  the  cavern. 

Mar  Jehudah  observed  that  the  inhabitants  of  Mabrachta 
placed  their  Erub  in  the  synagogue  of  the  city  of  Agubar,  so  he 


144  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

said  to  them:  "  Why  do  ye  not  place  the  Erub  a  little  further  ? 
Ye  will  have  more  space  to  the  two  thousand  ells?"  Said 
Rabha  to  him:  Thou  quarreller!  (Thou  disputest  the  opinion 
of  the  sages!)  Concerning  the  law  of  Erubin  no  attention  is 
paid  to  R.  Aqiba  (because  it  had  been  decided  long  ago,  that 
the  more  lenient  decrees  concerning  Erubin  prevail). 


CHAPTER   VI. 

REGULATIONS    CONCERNING    THE    ERUBIN    OF    COURTS    AND    PARTNER- 
SHIPS. 

MISHNA:  To  one  who  dwells  in  the  same  court  with  a 
Gentile,  or  with  one  who  does  not  acknowledge  the  laws  of 
Erub,  the  latter  prove  a  bar  (to  his  carrying  in  the  court).  R. 
Eliezer  ben  Jacob,  however,  said:  "  At  no  time  can  such  a  pro- 
hibition be  caused,  unless  there  be  two  Israelites,  who  prevent 
each  other." 

R.  Gamaliel  related:  "  It  happened  that  a  Sadducee  dwelt 
with  us  in  one  alley  (entry)  in  Jerusalem,  and  my  father  said  to 
us  (on  the  eve  of  Sabbath):  '  Make  haste  and  bring  all  the  ves- 
sels into  the  alley,  lest  the  Sadducee  bring  out  his,  and  thus 
make  it  unlawful  for  you  to  carry  out  yours.'  "  R.  Jehudah 
related  the  same  circumstance  with  a  variation  in  the  language, 
viz.  :  "  Make  haste  and  do  what  you  require  done  in  the  alley,  lest 
he  come  out  and  make  it  unlawful  for  you  to  do  so." 

GEMARA :  Abayi  and  R.  Hinana,  both  sons  of  Abin,  were 
sitting  along  with  Abayi.  The  two  brothers  said  :  "  The  Mishna 
would  be  correct  according  to  the  opinion  of  R.  Meir,  who  holds 
that  the  dwelling  of  a  Gentile  as  far  as  the  laws  of  Erubin  are 
concerned  is  regarded  as  a  dwelling;  but  what  about  R.  Eliezer 
ben  Jacob  ?  If  he  regards  the  dwelling  of  a  Gentile  as  a  dwell- 
ing, then  it  should  prove  a  bar  even  to  one  Israelite,  and  if  he 
holds  that  it  is  not  regarded  as  a  dwelling,  then  it  should  not 
interfere  even  with  two  Israelites."  Said  Abayi  to  them  :  "  Does 
then  R.  Meir  hold,  that  the  dwelling  of  a  Gentile  is  regarded  as 
a  dwelling  where  the  laws  of  Erubin  are  concerned  ?  Have  we 
not  learned  in  a  Boraitha,  that  R.  Meir  holds  the  dwelling  of  a 
Gentile  to  be  like  a  vacant  house,  where  things  may  be  moved 
at  will  ?  Therefore  I  say,  All  agree  that  the  dwelling  of  a 
Gentile  is  not  considered  as  a  dwelling  as  far  as  Erubin  are  con- 
cerned and  that  the  intent  of  the  Mishna  is  simply  to  prevent 
the  Israelite  from  falling  into  the  ways  of  the  Gentile  and  disre- 
gard the  Sabbath  entirely,  and  to  this  end  R.  Meir  holds,  that  a 
VOL.  in. — lo  145 


146  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Gentile  proves  a  bar  even  to  one  Israelite,  but  R.  Eliezer  ben 
Jacob  maintains,  that  it  is  so  rare  an  occurrence  for  one  Israelite 
and  one  Gentile  to  live  in  one  court,  that  such  a  precaution  is 
in  that  case  superfluous." 

The  text  of  the  above  Boraitha  is  as  follows:  "  The  dwelling 
of  a  Gentile  is,  as  far  as  the  laws  of  Erubin  are  concerned,  to  be 
regarded  as  a  vacant  house  and  things  may  be  moved  and  carried 
to  and  from  his  house  and  the  court ;  but  if  an  Israelite  also  dwelt 
in  the  same  court,  the  Gentile  proves  a  bar  to  the  Israelite." 
Such  is  the  dictum  of  R,  Meir;  R.  Eliezer  ben  Jacob,  however, 
said,  that  the  Gentile  does  not  interfere,  unless  there  are  two 
Israelites  who  prevent  each  other," — Have  we  not  learned  in 
our  Mishna  that  if  one  dwells  in  the  same  court  with  a  Gentile,  the 
Gentile  proves  a  bar  ?  This  presents  no  difificulty:  The  Mishna 
refers  to  the  Gentile  who  is  on  the  spot,  while  R.  Eliezer  ben 
Jacob  refers  to  one  who  is  not  at  home. 

What  does  R.  Eliezer  mean  to  express  ?  Does  he  hold,  that 
a  dwelling  without  the  occupant  is  also  a  dwelling,  then  he  should 
state,  that  even  one  Israelite  is  prevented  by  it ;  if  he  holds,  that 
a  dwelling  without  its  occupant  is  not  considered  a  dwelling, 
then  why  does  he  mention  a  Gentile,  he  could  say,  if  there  be 
two  Israelites  and  one  is  absent  from  home,  he  does  not  prove  a 
bar  to  the  other  ?  Nay;  a  dwelling  without  its  occupant  is  not 
considered  a  dwelling;  but  in  the  case  of  the  Israelite  who  was 
absent,  if  he  had  proved  a  bar  when  at  home,  the  precaution  is 
also  enforced  when  he  is  not  at  home,  but  in  the  case  of  a  Gen- 
tile, no  such  precaution  is  necessary  for  the  reason,  that  he  him- 
self does  not  prove  a  bar  to  the  Israelite  and  his  interference  is 
merely  due  to  the  fact  that  the  Israelite  might  fall  into  his  ways 
and  disregard  the  Sabbath.  When  the  Gentile  is  absent,  how- 
ever, such  apprehension  does  not  exist. 

If  the  Gentile  is  absent  he  does  not  prevent  the  Israelite  ? 
Have  we  not  learned  in  a  Mishna,  that  "  if  a  person  quits  his 
house,  and  he  goes  to  take  his  Sabbath-rest  in  another  town, 
whether  he  be  a  Gentile  or  an  Israelite,  he  proves  a  bar  to  the 
other  inmates  of  the  court,  such  is  the  decree  of  R.  Meir"  ? 
This  refers  to  a  case  of  where  there  is  fear  that  the  person  will 
return  on  the  same  day. 

R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  "The  Halakha 
prevails  according  to  R.  Eliezer  ben  Jacob."  R.  Huna,  how- 
ever, said:  "  It  is  customary  to  hold  to  the  opinion  of  R.  Elie- 
zer, i.e.,  it  is  not  taught  in  the  colleges  that  the  Halakha  prevails 


TRACT    ERUBIN. 


147 


according  to  R.  EHezer  ben  Jacob,  but  when  a  man  asks  con- 
cerning this  law,  he  maybe  told  to  follow  that  dictum."  R, 
Johanan  however  said:  "  The  people  act  in  accordance  with  R. 
Eliezer's  decree,  but  it  should  not  be  decided  so  when  the  ques- 
tion arises." 

Abayi  asked  R.  Joseph:  "It  is  known  to  us,  that  all  the 
Mishnaoth  taught  by  R.  Eliezer  ben  Jacob  are  clean  and  thor- 
ough. Here  also  R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Samuel,  that 
the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Eliezer  ben  Jacob.  Now 
then,  if  a  disciple  of  a  certain  master  live  in  the  same  town  as 
his  master  and  is  asked  concerning  a  Halakha  established  by  R. 
Eliezer  ben  Jacob  (which  is  therefore  correct)  may  he  decide  it 
himself  or  must  he  as  usual  refer  the  case  to  his  master  ?"  R. 
Joseph  answered:  "  R.  Hisda  (who  was  a  disciple  of  R.  Huna) 
would  not  even  decide  the  question  whether  eggs  may  be  eaten 
with  kutach  (a  dish  made  principally  of  milk)  as  long  as  R. 
Huna  was  living." 

R.  Jacob  bar  Abba  asked  Abayi :  "  May  a  disciple  decide  in 
the  place  where  his  master  resides  a  Halakha,  contained  in  the 
scrolls  of  Fast-days?"  Abayi  replied :  R.  Joseph  decided  this 
question  as  stated  above. 

R.  Hisda  did  decide  legal  questions,  during  the  lifetime  of  R. 
Huna,  in  Khafri.* 

R.  Hamnunaf  decided  questions  in  the  city  of  Hartha,  which 
belonged  to  Argaz  in  the  days  when  R.  Hisda  lived.  (Hartha 
was  not  far  from  Pumbaditha,  the  residence  of  R.  Hisda.) 

Rabhina  would  examine  the  slaughtering-knives  in  Babylon 
during  the  lifetime  of  R.  Ashi  (who  was  the  head  of  the  college). 
R.  Ashi  asked  him:  "  Why  does  Master  do  this?"  Rabhina 
answered:  "  Did  not  R.  Hamnuna  decide  questions  in  Hartha 
during  the  lifetime  of  R.  Hisda  ?"  Said  R.  Ashi  to  him:  "  On 
the  contrary!  We  have  learned,  that  R.  Hamnuna  did  not  do 
this."  Rejoined  Rabhina:  "  We  have  learned  both,  that  he 
did  and  that  he  did  not,  and  the  case  seems  to  be  thus:  As  long 
as  R.  Huna  the  master  of  R.  Hisda  lived,  R.  Hamnuna  did  not 
decide  any  questions,  but  upon  the  death  of  R.  Huna  when  R. 

*  Rashi  states,  that  Khafri  was  a  town  near  Pumbaditha,  but  in  our  opinion 
Khafri  is  the  plural  of  Khfar — Hebrew  for  village — and  it  seems  that  R.  Hisda 
decided  legal  questions  in  the  villages  where  the  inhabitants  could  not  reach  R.  Huna 
(Tosphath). 

f  This  R.  Hamnuna  is  not  to  be  confounded  with  the  disciple  of  Rabh  previously 
mentioned. 


148  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

Hisda  became  the  head  of  the  college,  R.  Hamnuna  began  to 
decide  questions  also,  because  he  was  virtually  a  disciple  (and) 
comrade  of  R.  Hisda  and  I  am  also  a  disciple  comrade  of  Mas- 
ter. 

Rabha  said:  "  If  a  slaughtering-knife  is  brought  to  a  young 
scholar  for  examination,  he  may  examine  it,  providing  he  intends 
to  use  some  of  the  meat  himself." 

Rabhina*  came  to  the  city  of  Mehuzza  (and  stopped  at  an 
inn).  The  inn-keeper  brought  a  slaughtering-knife  to  him  for 
examination,  and  Rabhina  told  him  to  take  it  to  Rabha.  Said 
the  inn-keeper:  "  Dost  thou  not  hold  with  Rabha,  that  a  young 
scholar  may  examine  a  slaughtering-knife  if  he  intends  to  use 
the  meat  himself  ?"  Rejoined  Rabhina:  "  Yea;  but  the  meat 
is  thine  and  I  merely  buy  the  meat  of  thee  as  others  do." 

R.  Elazar  of  the  city  of  Hagronia  and  R.  Abba  bar  Tachlipha 
(R.  Aha)  were  the  guests  of  R.  Aha  the  son  of  R.  Iqua  in  the 
city  presided  over  by  R.  Aha  bar  Jacob.  A  calf,  which  was  the 
third  of  its  mother,  was  to  be  prepared  and  the  slaughtering- 
knife  was  brought  to  them  for  inspection.  Said  R.  Aha  bar 
Tachlipha:  "  Must  we  not  respect  the  elder  (meaning  R.  Aha  bar 
Jacob)?"  Said  R.  Elazar  to  him:  "Thus  decided  Rabha:  A 
young  scholar  may  examine  the  slaughtering-knife  if  he  intends 
to  use  the  meat  himself."  Accordingly  R.  Elazar  examined  the 
knife  but  was  afterwards  punished  for  it. 

Why  was  R.  Elazar  punished  for  it  ?  Rabha  had  really 
allowed  it  ?  Because  R.  Aha  bar  Jacob  was  an  exceptionally 
wise  and  extremely  old  sage. 

Rabha  said:  A  disciple  has  no  right  to  decide  questions  of 
law.  If,  however,  he  sees  a  person  committing  a  prohibited  act, 
he  may  even  in  the  presence  of  his  master  correct  such  a  person. 

Rabhina  while  in  the  presence  of  R.  Ashi  (his  master)  observed 
a  man  tying  an  ass  to  a  tree  on  Sabbath.  He  admonished  him 
and  told  him  that  it  was  not  allowed; but  the  man  paid  no  atten- 
tion to  him,  whereupon  Rabhina  said  to  him:  "  Thou  art  under 
a  ban  for  this."  Then  he  (Rabhina)  said  to  R.  Ashi:  "  Can  this 
action  of  mine  be  construed  as  disrespectful  to  thee  because  it 
was  done  in  thy  presence  ? "  R.  Ashi  answered:  "  It  is  written 
[Proverbs  xxi.  30] :  *  There  is  no  wisdom  nor  understanding  nor 
counsel  against  the  Lord,'  and  that  means,  where  the  honor  of 


*  This  Rabhina  is  also  not  to  be  confounded  with  the  Rabhina  previously  men- 
tioned. 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  149 

the  Lord  is  concerned,  the  respect  due  a  teacher  is  not  to  be 
considered." 

Rabha  said:  "  If  a  disciple  decide  a  point  of  law  in  the  pres- 
ence of  his  master,  it  is  considered  as  a  capital  offence;  but  if 
he  does  this  in  the  absence  of  his  master  while  the  master  is 
still  in  the  same  city,  it  is  not  a  capital  offence,  but  is  neverthe- 
less prohibited."  Zera  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Hanina:  It  is 
not  a  capital  offence,  but  he  is  nevertheless  called  a  sinner,  as  it 
is  written  [Psalms  cxix.  11]:  "In  my  heart  have  I  treasured  up 
thy  saying,  in  order  that  I  may  not  sin  against  thee. "  (This 
signifies  that  if  one  did  not  treasure  up  his  knowledge  but 
uttered  it  in  the  presence  of  his  master,  he  commits  sin.) 

R.  Hamnuna  propounded  a  contradictory  question  to  the 
above  verse,  viz.:  It  is  written  [Psalms  xl.  10]:  "I  announce 
thy  righteousness  in  the  great  assembly,"  and  himself  explained 
it  by  saying:  "  The  former  verse  was  proclaimed  by  David  when 
Ira  the  Yairite,  who  was  his  master,  was  still  living  and  the  latter 
when  Ira  was  dead." 

R.  Abba  bar  Zabhda  said:  "  He  who  sends  his  gifts  to  one 
particular  priest  to  the  exclusion  of  all  others  brings  famine  into 
the  world,  as  it  is  written  [II  Samuel  xx.  26]:  "  And  Ira  the 
Yairite  was  a  priest  unto  David. "  Why  a  priest  unto  David? 
Was  he  not  also  a  priest  to  the  rest  of  Israel?  The  inference 
then  is,  that  David  presented  him  with  all  his  gifts  and  immedi- 
ately following  this  verse,  it  is  written  [ibid.  xxi.  i] :  "  And  there 
was  a  famine  in  the  days  of  David  three  years." 

R.  Elazar  said:  A  disciple  who  decides  a  point  of  law  in  the 
place  of  his  master,  if  intrusted  with  a  position  of  importance, 
is  eventually  deposed,  as  it  is  written  [Numbers  xxxi.  21-24] 
that  Elazar  the  priest  quoted  a  law  and  although  he  quoted  it  in 
the  name  of  Moses,  still  he  was  deposed  from  office  on  that 
account ;  for  although  Joshua  was  ordered  to  stand  before  Elazar 
[Numbers  xxvii.  21],  we  do  not  find  one  instance  where  Joshua 
ever  availed  himself  of  Elazar's  services. 

R.  Levi  said:  He  who  decides  a  point  of  law  in  the  pres- 
ence of  his  master  will  die  childless,  for  it  is  written  [Numbers 
xi.  28],  that  Joshua,  the  son  of  Nun  said,  "  My  lord  Moses, 
forbid  them,"  and  [Chronicles  vii.  27]  it  merely  states,  "  Now 
his  son,  Jehoshua  his  son,"  whence  we  see  that  Joshua  had  no 
children. 

There  was  an  entry  in  which  a  man  by  the  name  of  Lachman 
bar  Risthak  resided.       He  was  asked  to  rent  his  right  to  the 


I50  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

ground  occupied  by  him  to  the  other  inmates;  but  he  would  not 
do  this.  So  the  matter  was  brought  to  Abayi  for  decision  and 
he  told  them  as  follows:  "  All  of  you,  resign  your  rights  to  your 
grounds  to  one  man  in  the  entry  and  thus  it  will  constitute  a 
case  of  where  one  Israelite  and  one  Gentile  occupy  the  same 
entry;  when  one  Gentile  occupies  the  same  grounds  with  one 
Israelite  he  does  not  interfere  with  the  Israelite."  How  can 
this  remedy  us  ?  Why  was  it  decreed,  that  one  Gentile  does  not 
interfere  with  an  Israelite,  because  it  is  of  rare  occurrence,  that 
they  should  occupy  the  same  court,  but  in  our  case  it  is  different. 
We  all  live  there  ?  Said  Abayi:  "  In  your  case  there  is  also  an 
unusual  occurrence ;  for  it  seldom  happens,  that  all  the  inmates 
of  one  entry  should  resign  their  rights  to  one  man." 

Subsequently  R.  Huna  the  son  of  R.  Jehoshua  related  this 
statement  of  Abayi  to  Rabha.  Said  Rabha:  "  If  so,  then  the 
entire  law  of  Erubin  was  made  void  in  that  entry."  Nay;  they 
made  an  Erub  between  themselves  also.  Rejoined  Rabha:  "  This 
is  still  worse.  In  that  case  it  will  be  said  that  an  Erub  may  be 
made  where  a  Gentile  lives."  Answered  R.  Huna:  "  It  will  be 
proclaimed,  that  the  carrying  is  not  done  on  account  of  the 
Erub,  but  because  every  inmate  has  resigned  his  right  to  the 
ground  to  one  man  and  hence  it  is  private  ground."  "To 
whom  will  ye  proclaim  this?  To  the  children?"  continued 
Rabha.  "  I  have  a  better  plan.  Let  one  man  go  and  ask  Lach- 
man  bar  Risthak  to  permit  him  to  deposit  something  in  his 
(Lachman's)  yard,  which  will  then  be  considered  as  rented  for  an 
entire  year,  and  R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Samuel,  that  if 
ground  had  been  rented  by  an  Israelite  from  a  Gentile  or  vice 
versa  for  one  year  or  even  for  one  season  when  the  crops  are 
harvested,  in  fact  if  any  dealings  at  all  have  been  had  on  this 
order  with  the  Gentile,  an  Erub  may  be  placed  in  the  entry 
where  he  lives  with  impunity." 

Abayi  asked  of  R.  Joseph:  "  How  is  it,  if  there  are  several 
who  had  rented  apartments  from  a  Gentile  and  one  of  them  for- 
got to  make  an  Erub.  Would  he  prove  a  bar  to  the  others  or 
not?"  Answered  R.  Joseph:  "The  statement  of  R.  Jehudah 
in  the  name  of  Samuel  was  made  in  order  to  make  the  law  more 
lenient  and  not  to  make  it  more  rigid." 

When  R.  Na'hman  heard  the  dictum  of  R.  Jehudah  in  the 
name  of  Samuel  quoted  above,  he  said:  "  How  fine  is  this  Ha- 
lakha!  "  Then  he  heard  another  dictum  of  R.  Jehudah  in  the 
name  oi  Samuel  stating,  that  one  who  had  imbibed  a  quarter  of 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  151 

a  lug  of  wine,  must  not  decide  any  legal  questions.  Said  R. 
Na'hmaii :  "This  Halakha  is  preposterous!  I  know  that  my 
head  is  not  quite  clear  until  I  drink  a  quarter  of  a  lug  of  wine." 
Said  Rabha  to  him:  "  Why  should  master  say  this  ?  Has  he 
not  heard  the  dictum  of  R.  A'ha  bar  Hanina,  viz.:  it  is  written 
[Proverbs  xxix.  3]:  'He  that  keepeth  company  with  harlots 
wasteth  his  wealth,'  and  this  means,  that  one  who  declares 
one  Halakha  to  be  fine  and  another  to  be  bad  loses  the  beauty 
(wealth)  of  the  Thorah."  Answered  R.  Na'hman:  "Thou  art 
right.      I  shall  do  this  no  more." 

Rabba  bar  R.  Huna  said:  One  who  is  tipsy  should  not  pray; 
but  if  he  had  done  so  his  prayer  is  nevertheless  acceptable. 
One  who  is  intoxicated,  however,  and  prayed,  his  prayer  is  con- 
sidered as  a  blasphemy.  What  is  meant  by  tipsy  ?  If  a  man 
were  compelled  to  speak  to  the  king  and  had  still  sense  enough 
to  do  so,  he  is  merely  tipsy;  but  one  who  would  not  be  able  to 
do  this  is  considered  intoxicated. 

Said  Rami  bar  Abba:  "  One  who  after  drinking  had  walked 
a  mile  or  slept  a  little  is  again  considered  sober."  Said  R. 
Na'hman  in  the  name  of  Rabba  bar  Abbahu:  This  is  the  case  if 
he  had  drunk  only  a  quarter  of  a  lug  of  wine;  but  if  he  drank 
more,  then  the  walk  tires  him  still  more,  and  the  interrupted 
doze  inebriates  him  still  more. 

Will  a  walk  of  one  mile  then  neutralize  the  effects  of  the 
wine  ?  Have  we  not  learned,  that  Rabbon  Gamaliel  while  trav- 
elling at  one  time  rode  upon  an  ass  from  the  city  Akhu  to  Kha- 
zib  and  was  followed  by  R.  Ilayi.  R.  Gamaliel  noticed  some 
loaves  lying  on  the  road,  so  he  said  to  Ilayi:  "  Take  the  loaves 
up,"  and  meeting  a  Gentile  later  said  to  him:  "  Mabgai,  take 
the  loaves  away  from  Ilayi."  Ilayi  then  asked  the  Gentile: 
"  Whence  art  thou  ?"  and  he  answered:  "  From  the  cities  of 
Burganin."  "  What  is  thy  name  ?"  asked  Ilayi  again.  "  I  am 
called  Mabgai,"  was  the  answer.  "  Dost  thou  know  R.  Gama- 
liel ?  "  was  the  next  question,  "  or  does  R.  Gamaliel  know  thee  ?  " 
"  Nay,"  answered  the  Gentile.  Thus  it  is  obvious,  that  R. 
Gamaliel  knew  the  name  of  the  Gentile  by  inspiration  [and  three 
things  may  be  deduced  from  his  actions,  viz.:  "  Firstly,  that 
bread  must  not  be  passed  by  (but  should  be  gathered  up);  sec- 
ondly, that  we  must  be  guided  by  the  majority  of  wayfarers  {i.e., 
on  account  of  the  majority  of  wayfarers  being  Gentiles,  the 
bread  is  presumed  to  belong  to  them  and  hence  R.  Ilayi  was 
told  to  give  it  to  the  Gentile);  and  thirdly,  that  leavened  bread 


152  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

belonging  to  a  Gentile,  even  if  remaining  over  from  the  Passover, 
may  be  made  use  of  by  Israelites  after  the  Passover."] 

Upon  his  arrival  at  Khazib,  R.  Gamaliel  was  asked  by  a  man 
to  nullify  a  vow.  Said  R.  Gamaliel  to  his  companions:  "  Have 
we  drunk  a  quarter  of  a  lug  of  Italian  wine?"  and  they  an- 
swered: "  Yea,  we  did."  "  Then,"  quoth  R.  Gamaliel,  "  let  us 
walk  on,  the  man  following  us  until  the  effects  of  the  wine  wear 
off,"  and  they  walked  on  for  three  miles.  When  they  came  to 
the  steps  leading  up  to  the  city  of  Tyre,  R.  Gamaliel  dismounted, 
wrapped  himself  in  a  robe,  sat  down  and  nullified  the  man's  vow, 
and  from  these  actions  we  have  learned  many  things ;  namely : 
"  A  quarter  of  a  lug  of  Italian  wine  inebriates  a  man;  when  a 
man  is  inebriated,  he  must  not  decide  any  legal  questions;  a 
walk  neutralizes  the  effects  of  wine;  and  avow  must  not  be  nul- 
lified while  riding,  standing,  or  walking,  but  in  a  sitting  posi- 
tion." 

Thus  we  see,  that  a  three  miles'  walk  is  required  to  destroy 
the  effects  of  wine,  how  can  it  be  said,  that  one  mile  is  suffi- 
cient ?  In  a  case  of  inebriation  through  Italian  wine  it  is  differ- 
ent, because  that  wine  is  very  strong,  but  for  ordinary  wine  a 
walk  of  one  mile  is  all  that  is  necessary. 

The  master  said:  "  One  must  not  pass  by  bread."  Said  R. 
Johanan  in  the  name  of  R.  Simeon  ben  Jochai:  This  was  said 
in  the  earlier  generations  when  the  daughters  of  Israel  had  not 
yet  resorted  to  witchcraft,  but  in  the  latter  generations  when 
they  began  to  practise  it,  bread  may  be  passed  by,  lest  it  be 
bewitched. 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  Whole  loaves  of  bread  may 
be  passed  by,  because  they  may  be  bewitched,  but  pieces  of 
bread  should  not,  as  there  is  no  fear  of  their  being  bewitched. 

R.  Shesheth  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Elazar  ben  Azariah :  "  I 
could  exempt  the  entire  world  from  divine  judgment  since  the 
destruction  of  the  Temple  to  the  present  day;  for  it  is  written 
[Isaiah  li.  21]:  "Therefore,  hear  now  this,  O  thou  afiflicted, 
and  drunken,  but  not  with  wine."  (Hence  if  all  the  world  is 
drunken,  they  should  not  be  judged.) 

An  objection  was  made:  "  We  have  learned,  that  a  drunken 
man's  purchase  is  a  valid  purchase,  his  sale  is  a  valid  sale;  if  he 
has  committed  a  capital  offence,  he  should  be  executed;  if  he 
committed  a  crime  involving  the  punishment  of  stripes,  he  must 
be  given  the  stripes.  The  rule  is,  that  he  is  in  all  respects  con- 
sidered as  a  sober  man  with  the  exception  that  he  is  absolved 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  153 

from  prayer."  R.  Shesheth  means  to  say  by  stating  that  he 
can  absolve  the  entire  world  from  divine  judgment,  that  he  can 
exempt  the  world  from  the  judgment  concerning  their  prayers. 
Said  R.  Hanina:  All  this  is  said  concerning  a  man  whose  drunk- 
enness does  not  equal  that  of  Lot's,  but  if  it  is  of  the  degree  of 
Lot's  drunkenness,  he  is  exempt  from  all  judgment. 

R.  Hyya  bar  Ashi  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  "  One  whose 
mind  is  not  thoroughly  at  ease  must  not  pray,  as  it  is  written: 
"  In  his  affliction  shall  he  not  judge."  * 

It  was  the  custom  of  R.  Hanina  to  omit  saying  his  prayers 
on  a  day  when  he  was  in  a  bad  humor,  and  Mar  Uqba  would  not 
take  his  seat  on  the  judge's  bench  on  a  day  when  a  hot  south 
wind  would  blow,  saying,  that  it  was  too  hot  to  judge  with  a 
clear  mind.  R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak  said:  When  a  Halakha  is 
to  be  decided  by  a  man,  his  head  should  be  as  clear  as  it  is  on  a 
day  when  a  north  wind  which  drives  away  all  dark  clouds  is 
blowing  and  the  sky  is  clear  and  the  weather  fine. 

Abayi  said:  "  When  my  mother  would  tell  me  to  hand  her 
some  kutach,  it  so  confused  me,  that  I  could  not  study  that 
whole  day."  Rabha  said:  "  If  a  flea  bit  me,  I  could  no  longer 
learn." 

The  mother  of  Mar,  the  son  of  Rabhina,  made  her  son  seven 
suits  of  clothes,  one  for  each  day  of  the  week. 

R.  Jehudah  said:  "  The  night  was  made  only  for  sleep." 
R.  Simeon  ben  Lakish,  however,  said:  "The  moon  was  made 
only  in  order  to  facilitate  study  at  night." 

R.  Zera  was  told  that  all  his  conclusions  were  very  sagacious, 
and  he  replied,  that  they  were  all  studied  during  the  day. 

The  daughter  of  R.  Hisda  said  to  her  father:  "  Why  does 
Master  not  sleep  a  while  ? "  and  he  answered:  "  Very  long  days 
will  yet  come,  when  study  will  be  impossible"  (meaning  the 
days  in  the  grave). 

R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak  said:  "We  are  all  day-laborers." 
R.  A'ha  bar  Jacob  would  borrow  hours  from  the  day  and  repay 
them  at  night. 

R.    Eliezer   said:    One  who  travelled   on    the  road   should, 


*  This  verse  is  not  to  be  found  in  the  entire  Bible.  Rashi,  however,  says  that  it 
may  be  found  in  the  part  of  the  Apocrypha  called  Ben  Sira,  but  to  our  knowledge  it 
cannot  be  found  even  there.  Tosphath  says,  that  a  number  of  verses  cited  in  the 
Talmud  are  to  be  found  in  Ben  Sira,  while  quite  a  number  cannot  be  found  anywhere 
in  the  Scriptures  or  in  the  Apocrypha.  Concerning  the  above  verse,  Tosphath  states, 
that  it  should  read  as  quoted  in  Job.  xxxvi.  19. 


154  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

upon  his  return,  not  recite  his  prayers  for  three  days,  as  it  is 
written  [Ezra  viii.  15]:  "  And  I  gathered  them  together  to  the 
river  that  runneth  into  the  Ahava,  and  we  encamped  there  three 
days:  and  I  looked  about  among  the  people."  (Which  signifies, 
that  one  should  deliberate  for  three  days  and  then  pray.) 

The  father  of  Samuel  when  on  the  road  would  not  pray  for 
three  days.  Samuel  himself  would  not  pray  in  a  room  where 
there  was  any  beer,  saying,  that  the  odor  of  the  beer  confused 
him.  R.  Papa  would  not  pray  in  a  house  where  there  was 
Harsena  (a  dish  made  of  fish  and  vinegar)  saying,  that  the  odor 
disturbed  him. 

R.  Hanina  said:  A  man  who  is  angry  with  another  and  when 
under  the  influence  of  liquor  can  be  persuaded  to  a  reconcilia- 
tion possesses  one  of  the  qualities  of  his  Creator,  as  it  is  written 
[Genesis  viii.  21]:  "And  the  Lord  smelled  the  sweet  savor," 
etc. 

R.  Hyya  said:  "  One  who  drinks  wine  and  is  not  excited 
thereby,  has  some  of  the  qualities  of  the  seventy  sages  in  the 
days  of  Moses."  The  inference  of  R.  Hyya  is  based  upon  the 
word  Yain  (wine),  which  according  to  the  Hebrew  method  of 
counting,  namely,  Yod  =  10  and  another  Yod  =  10  and  Nun  =  50, 
altogether  70;  and  also  upon  the  word  Sod  (secret)  Samach  =  60, 
Vav  =  6  and  Daled  =  4,  altogether  70;  hence  when  the  wine 
enters,  the  secrets  escape  and  the  man  who  does  not  become 
excited  through  wine  and  can  retain  his  secrets,  possesses  the 
wisdom  of  the  seventy  sages. 

R.  Hanan  said:  "  Wine  was  created  only  to  comfort  the 
mourners  and  to  pay  the  wicked  their  reward  for  any  good  they 
may  have  done,  on  this  earth,  as  it  is  written  [Proverbs  xxxi. 
6] :  "  Give  strong  drink  unto  him  that  is  ready  to  perish,  and  wine 
unto  those  who  have  an  embittered  soul."  (By  "  one  that  is 
ready  to  perish,"  is  meant  the  wicked  and  by  "  those  who  have 
an  embittered  soul,"  are  meant  the  mourners.) 

R.  Hanin  bar  Papa  said:  A  house  where  wine  does  not 
flow  like  water  cannot  be  classed  among  those  that  are  blessed, 
as  it  is  written  [Exod.  xxiii.  25]:  "  And  he  will  bless  thy  bread 
and  thy  water. "  The  bread  referred  to  is  that  which  can  be 
bought  with  the  proceeds  of  the  second  tithes  and  the  water 
which  cannot  be  bought  with  such  money  really  means  wine.  If, 
then,  wine  is  so  plentiful  in  the  house,  that  it  flows  like  water, 
the  house  is  counted  among  the  blessed. 

R.  Ilayi  said:  By  means  of  three  things  a  man's  character 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  155 

may  be  ascertained  :  "  By  his  wine-cup,  by  his  purse,  and  by  his 
anger,"  and  others  say  also  by  his  play  (for  money). 

R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  There  was  a  case, 
where  an  Israelite  and  a  Gentile  occupied  an  inner  court  and 
another  Israelite  occupied  the  outer  court  and  it  was  referred  to 
Rabbi  for  decision.  He  decided  that  the  outer  court  must  not 
be  used  to  carry  therein.  It  was  then  referred  to  R.  Hyya  and 
he  decided  likewise. 

Rabba  and  R.  Joseph  both  sat  in  the  presence  of  R.  She- 
sheth,  when  he  finished  his  lecture,  and  R.  Shesheth  concluded 
by  saying,  that  Rabh  decided  the  above  Halakha  in  accordance 
with  the  opinion  of  R.  Meir.  Rabba  shook  his  head.  Said  R. 
Joseph :  Is  it  possible,  that  two  such  great  men  (as  R.  Shesheth 
and  Rabba)  should  be  mistaken  ?  If  Rabh's  dictum  were  accord- 
ing to  R.  Meir,  why  was  it  necessary  to  state,  that  the  outer 
court  was  occupied  by  an  Israelite  ?  (R.  Meir  holds,  that  even 
one  Gentile  and  one  Israelite  are  sufificient  to  make  it  unlawful 
to  carry  in  one  court.)  If  we  assume,  that  Rabh  merely  related 
the  circumstance  as  it  occurred,  without  making  a  decision,  is 
it  not  a  fact  that  when  Rabh  was  asked  whether,  if  the  Gentile 
was  at  his  home,  the  Israelite  may  carry  from  the  inner  court 
to  the  outer,  he  answered  that  he  may,  hence  we  see  that 
the  Gentile  does  not  prevent  the  Israelite  occupying  the  same 
court  from  carrying  therein ;  but  that  the  two  Israelites  prevent 
each  other.  Shall  we  then  assume,  that  Rabh  held  in  accord- 
ance Avith  R.  Eliezer  ben  Jacob  ?  Why  should  it  be  prohibited 
for  the  Israelite  to  carry  from  one  court  to  the  other  ?  Further 
on  we  shall  learn,  that,  according  to  R.  Aqiba,  a  foot  (mean- 
ing a  man)  which  is  allowed  to  carry  in  its  place  cannot  inter- 
fere with  the  right  of  another  place  (and  in  this  case  each 
Israelite  may  carry  in  his  own  court,  for  one  of  them  has  the 
court  to  himself  and  the  other  has  but  one  Gentile  in  his  court, 
who,  according  to  R.  Eliezer  ben  Jacob,  does  not  interfere  with 
his  right  to  carry),  why  then  should  it  be  prohibited  for  them  to 
carry  between  the  courts?  It  might  be  then,  that  Rabh  holds 
with  R.  Aqiba,  who  says,  that  a  foot  which  is  allowed  to  carry 
in  its  own  place  nevertheless  interferes  with  the  right  of  another 
place,  then  why  should  the  Gentile  be  mentioned  ?  Each  Israel- 
ite will  prevent  the  other  ? 

Said  R.  Huna,  the  son  of  R.  Jehoshua:  It  may  be  assumed 
that  Rabh  agrees  either  with  R.  Eliezer  ben  Jacob  or  with  R. 
Aqiba;  but  in  this  case  the  two  Israelites  combined  in  an  Erub, 


156  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

and  on  account  of  the  interference  of  the  Gentile,  he  prohibited 
both. 

Resh  Lakish  and  the  disciples  of  R.  Hanina  met  in  an  inn 
where  lived  two  Israelites  and  a  Gentile,  who  rented  his  place 
from  another  Gentile.  The  tenant  was  not  at  home  but  the 
owner  was.  The  question  then  arose  whether  the  place  of  the 
tenant  could  be  rented  from  the  owner  for  the  Sabbath.  Where 
the  tenant  had  a  perfect  lease  and  could  not  be  dispossessed  for 
that  day,  it  is  entirely  out  of  the  question.  If,  however,  the 
tenant's  lease  was  conditional,  i.e.,  if  the  owner  could  at  any 
time  dispossess  him,  the  question  arises  whether,  because  of  the 
fact,  that  he  had  not  yet  been  dispossessed  the  tenant  retains  his 
right  to  the  place  and  it  cannot  be  rented,  or  from  the  fact,  that 
it  is  optional  with  the  owner  to  dispossess  the  tenant  at  any  time, 
the  place  may  be  rented. 

Resh  Lakish  said :  In  the  meantime,  let  us  rent  the  place, 
and  afterwards,  when  we  come  to  our  sages  in  the  South,  we  will 
ask  their  opinion.  Subsequently,  when  they  came  to  R.  Ephes 
and  asked  him,  he  told  them  that  they  had  done  rightly. 

R.  Hanina  bar  Joseph,  R.  Hyya  bar  Abba,  and  R.  Assi  met 
at  an  inn,  the  proprietor  of  which  was  a  Gentile  and  who  arrived 
on  the  Sabbath.  The  question  then  arose,  whether  his  place 
could  be  rented  from  him  for  the  Sabbath  or  not.  If  renting  a 
place  is  equal  to  making  an  Erub,  then,  of  course,  it  would  not 
be  permitted  on  Sabbath,  but  if  renting  a  place  was  merely  the 
resigning  of  it  by  one  man  to  another,  then  it  may  be  done, 
because  that  is  allowed  on  Sabbath.  R.  Hanina  advised  renting 
it  but  R.  Assi  objected.  Said  R.  Hyya  bar  Abba  to  them :  Let 
us  depend  upon  this  elder  (meaning  R.  Hanina)  and  rent  it  and 
then  we  will  ask  R.  Johanan.  When  they  asked  R.  Johanan  he 
told  them,  they  had  done  what  was  right. 

The  men  of  Neherdai  when  hearing  of  this  were  surprised, 
saying:  "  Did  not  R.  Johanan  say  at  another  time,  that  '  rent- 
ing a  place  for  the  Sabbath  was  equivalent  to  making  an  Erub,' 
hence,  as  the  Erub  must  be  effected  on  the  preceding  day,  the 
renting  must  be  done  likewise."  Nay;  R.  Johanan  means  to 
state  that  as  an  Erub  may  be  effected  with  anything,  no  matter 
how  little  in  value,  a  place  may  also  be  rented  for  any  amount, 
be  it  ever  so  small ;  and  as  one  man  may  combine  an  Erub  for 
five  others  occupying  the  same  court,  so  may  one  rent  also  for 
others. 

Samuel  said:  "  There  is  no  such  thing  as  resigning  the  right 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  157 

of  one  court  to  another  court,  nor  resigning  the  right  to  the 
space  of  a  ruin.  (This  signifies,  that  if  two  courts  opened  into 
an  entry  or  into  the  street  and  besides  had  a  door  between  them, 
there  is  no  necessity  for  them  to  combine  an  Erub,  and,  in  con- 
sequence, they  are  not  benefited  if  the  right  of  one  court  is 
resigned  to  the  other.)  And  as  for  a  ruin,  it  means,  that  if  there 
were  two  houses  opening  into  a  ruin  between  them,  neither  can 
use  the  ruin,  unless  they  combine  an  Erub;  but  the  space 
enjoyed  by  each  cannot  be  resigned  by  one  to  the  other.  R. 
Johanan,  however,  said  that  both  in  the  case  of  the  court  and  of 
the  ruin  the  right  to  the  space  may  be  resigned  by  one  to  the 
other. 

It  was  necessary  for  us  to  be  told  of  both  instances  wherein 
they  differ;  for  if  we  had  been  told,  that  Samuel  only  prohib- 
ited the  resigning  of  the  space  by  one  court  to  the  other,  we 
might  have  assumed,  that  he  did  so  because  each  court  had  a 
right  in  itself  without  combining  a  joint  Erub,  but  as  for  a  ruin, 
he  might  have  held,  that  as  an  Erub  must  be  effected  by  the  two 
houses  on  each  side,  if  the  use  of  the  ruin  is  desired,  the  resign- 
ing of  the  space  was  permitted.  If  the  difference  concerning 
the  ruin  only  were  related,  it  might  be  said,  that  R.  Johanan 
permits  the  resigning  of  the  space  of  the  ruin  only;  because  an 
Erub  must  be  effected  by  the  houses  desiring  its  use,  whereas 
in  the  case  of  the  court,  he  agrees  with  Samuel.  Hence  both 
instances  are  quoted. 

Abayi  said:  The  prohibition  of  Samuel  regarding  the  resign- 
ing of  the  space  by  one  court  to  another  refers  only  to  two 
courts  that  had  a  door  between  them.  If,  however,  one  court 
was  contained  within  the  other  and  did  not  have  a  separate 
entrance  to  the  street,  they  may  mutually  resign  their  space, 
because  they  are  bound  to  combine  an  Erub.  Rabha  said :  In 
such  a  case,  they  at  certain  times  may  do  so  and  at  other  times 
they  must  not  (and  this  will  be  explained  at  the  end  of  this 
chapter). 

When  R.  Hisda  met  R.  Shesheth  his  lips  would  tremble; 
for  knowing  that  R.  Shesheth  was  so  well  versed  in  Mishnaoth 
and  Boraithoth,  he  was  afraid  to  render  a  decision  lest  R.  She- 
sheth would  contradict  him  with  another  Mishna  or  Boraitha. 
On  the  other  hand  R.  Shesheth's  whole  body  would  tremble 
when  he  met  R.  Hisda,  for  knowing  that  the  latter  was  very 
shrewd,  he  was  afraid  of  R.  Hisda's  sagacity. 

R.  Hisda  propounded  the  following  question  to  R.  Shesheth; 


158  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

"  If  there  were  two  houses  on  each  side  of  a  wide  street  (public 
ground)  and  some  Gentiles  made  a  partition  around  the  street  on 
the  Sabbath,  what  is  the  law  ?  According  to  those  who  main- 
tain, that  it  is  not  allowed  for  one  court  to  resign  its  space  to 
another,  there  is  no  question ;  because  if  the  two  courts  had 
desired  to  make  an  Erub  on  the  preceding  day  they  could  have 
done  so  and  still  they  are  not  allowed  to  resign  their  spaces  to 
each  other;  so  much  the  more  in  our  case,  where  the  two  houses 
could  not  have  combined  an  Erub  on  the  preceding  day  on 
account  of  the  intervening  public  ground  which  had  not  yet  had 
a  partition,  they  are  not  allowed  to  resign  their  space  to  each 
other.  I  am  asking,  however,  considering  the  Tana  who  main- 
tains, that  the  two  courts  may  resign  their  space  to  each  other. 
Shall  I  assume,  that  it  is  permitted  in  the  case  of  the  two  courts 
because  they  could  have  made  an  Erub  on  the  preceding  day,  but 
in  the  case  of  our  two  houses  which  could  not  have  made  an 
Erub  on  the  preceding  day,  it  is  not  permitted  or,  as  there  is  a 
partition  around  the  intervening  public  ground,  they  may  do  so  ?  " 

R.  Shesheth  answered:  "Nay,  it  is  not  permitted."  R. 
Hisda  queried  again:  "  How  is  it,  if  two  Israelites  living  in  the 
same  court  with  a  Gentile  and  not  having  made  an  Erub  or 
rented  the  place  of  the  Gentile,  the  latter  died  on  the  Sabbath  ? 
May  they  mutually  resign  their  space  to  each  other  ?  According 
to  the  Tana  who  holds,  that  one  may  rent  a  place  on  the  Sab- 
bath, there  is  no  question,  because  if  they  did  not  make  an 
Erub  they  may  rent  the  place  from  the  Gentile  and  then  resign 
their  places  to  each  other  ;  thus  if  two  things  may  be  done  on 
the  Sabbath,  one  certainly  may  be  done.  I  ask  thee  according 
to  the  Tana  who  prohibits  renting  on  the  Sabbath.  May  the 
two  Israelites  in  this  case  where  the  Gentile  is  dead  and  they 
need  not  rent  his  place  resign  their  places  to  each  other  or 
not  ?"  Rejoined  R.  Shesheth:  "  I  say  that  they  may;  because 
if  they  had  chosen  to  rent  the  place  yesterday  and  then  effect 
an  Erub  they  could  have  done  so,  but  Hamnuna  does  not  allow 
them  to  do  this." 

R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  "If  a  Gentile  have 
in  his  court  a  door,  four  spans  wide  and  four  ells  high,  opening 
into  a  valley,  even  should  he  lead  cattle,  camels,  and  wagons 
through  the  entry  to  the  court  all  day  long,  he  does  not  interfere 
with  the  Israelites  inhabiting  the  court,  because  his  door  is  of 
more  use  to  him  than  the  common  entry,  and  serves  to  separate 
him  from  the  others." 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  159 

The  schoolmen  asked:  "  How  is  the  law,  if  the  door  of  the 
Gentile  opened  into  a  woodshed  ?  "  R.  Na'hman  bar  Ami  said 
in  the  name  of  some  learned  men:  "  Even  if  the  door  of  the 
Gentile  open  into  a  woodshed  and  the  common  entry  into  the 
street,  he  also  does  not  interfere  with  the  Israelites  inhabiting 
the  court."  Rabba  and  R.  Joseph  both  say:  "  If  the  woodshed 
was  not  more  than  of  two  saahs'  capacity,  the  Gentile  does 
interfere  with  the  Israelites,  because  he  cannot  derive  as  much 
comfort  from  the  woodshed  as  he  can  from  the  street,  but  if  the 
woodshed  was  larger  than  that  the  Gentile  does  not  interfere. 
With  Israelites  it  is  the  reverse :  if  the  woodshed,  into  which 
the  separate  door  opens,  be  no  more  than  of  two  saahs'  capacity 
and  the  Israelite  had  not  combined  in  the  Erub  with  the  others, 
he  does  not  interfere  with  them,  because  a  woodshed  of  that 
size  may  be  used  by  him  on  the  Sabbath ;  but  if  the  woodshed 
be  larger,  he  does  interfere  with  the  other  Israelites. 

Rabha  bar  Haklayi  asked  of  R.  Huna:  "  How  is  the  law  if  a 
Gentile  have  a  door  opening  into  a  woodshed  ?"  and  R.  Huna 
answered:  "  The  sages  have  already  decided  this.  If  the  wood- 
shed be  of  two  saahs'  capacity,  he  interferes  with  the  Israelites, 
but  if  of  more  than  two  saahs'  capacity  he  does  not." 

It  happened  that  some  warm  water  was  spilled  and  more  was 
needed  for  a  child  on  the  Sabbath.  So  Rabba  said :  "  Let  some 
warm  water  be  brought  from  my  house."  Said  Abayi  to  him: 
"  Why!  no  Erub  has  been  made!  "  Rejoined  Rabba:  "  Let  us 
depend  upon  the  combine  made  in  the  entry  (of  this  court)," 
but  Abayi  persisted:  "We  have  no  part  even  in  the  entry." 
Finally  Rabba  said:  "  Let  a  Gentile  be  told  to  bring  it."  Sub- 
sequently Abayi  said:  "  I  had  a  mind  to  dispute  even  this  last 
order  of  my  master,  but  R.  Joseph  would  not  permit  me  to  do 
this;  for  R.  Joseph  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Kahana:  '  Where  a 
biblical  ordinance  is  in  question  the  case  should  be  discussed 
before  the  act  is  committed,  but  in  the  matter  of  rabbinical 
ordinances  the  deed  may  be  accomplished  and  then  the  decision 
may  be  asked  for.'  " 

Then  R.  Joseph  asked  Abayi:  "Upon  what  grounds  dost 
thou  desire  to  dispute  this  last  order  of  the  master?"  and  he 
answered :  Upon  the  teaching  we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha,  viz. : 
While  the  sprinkling  of  an  unclean  man  (with  the  ashes  of 
the  red  heifer)  by  a  clean  man  is  only  a  rabbinical  ordinance, 
the  Sabbath  should  not  be  violated  by  the  performance  of  this 
rite  even  if  it  be  necessary  for  the  fulfilment  of  a  command- 


i6o  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

ment,  and  in  the  same  manner  requesting  a  Gentile  to  per- 
form an  act  on  the  Sabbath  being  also  against  the  rabbinical 
ordinance,  it  should  not  be  done  on  the  Sabbath.  Rejoined 
R,  Joseph:  "  Canst  thou  discriminate  between  the  performance 
of  an  act  which  is  against  the  rabbinical  ordinance  and  a  case 
where  no  act  at  all  was  committed  ?  The  Gentile  was  not  told 
by  Rabba  to  warm  the  water  but  merely  to  bring  it  from  his 
house  through  the  entry,  and  this  is  certainly  not  prohibited." 

Said  Rabba  bar  R.  Hanan  to  Abayi:  "  How  is  it  possible, 
that  in  a  court  where  two  such  great  men  as  Rabba  and  thou 
reside,  no  Erub  was  made  either  in  the  court  or  in  the  entry  ? " 
Answered  Abayi:  "  How  can  I  help  it  ?  The  master  does  not 
usually  pay  attention  to  such  trifles;  I  am  engaged  all  the  week 
long  in  study,  while  the  inmates  of  the  court  do  not  trouble 
themselves  about  it.  Should  I  make  up  my  mind  to  present 
them  with  the  bread  in  my  basket,  it  would  be  merely  a  sham, 
for  if  they  were  to  demand  it,  I  could  not  in  reality  part  with  it 
as  I  cannot  spare  it ;  hence  even  if  I  should  have  this  in  mind, 
it  would  be  useless ;  for  we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha,  that  if 
one  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  entry  demanded  wine  or  oil  and 
was  refused,  the  combine  is  made  invalid."  Rejoined  Rabba 
bar  R.  Hanan:  "  Then  thou  couldst  have  in  mind  to  give  them  a 
quarter  of  a  lug  of  vinegar  from  the  cask  thou  hast  in  the  house, 
and  thou  surely  wouldst  not  use  up  that  on  the  Sabbath." 
Abayi  replied:  "  We  have  learned  in  another  Boraitha,  that  it 
is  not  allowed  to  combine  an  Erub  with  material  which  is  in  bulk 
because  it  might  be,  that  the  very  part  which  was  intended  for 
the  Erub  may  be  used. "  "  But, ' '  insisted  Rabba  bar  R.  Hanan, 
"  we  have  learned  in  another  Boraitha  that  this  may  be  done." 
Said  R.  Oshiya:  "  Concerning  this,  there  is  a  difference  of  opin- 
ion between  Beth  Shammai  and  Beth  Hillel."  It  happened 
again  that  some  warm  water  needed  for  a  child  was  spilled.  Said 
Rabha:  "  Let  the  mother  be  asked  whether  she  is  in  need  of 
warm  water,  and,  if  so,  a  Gentile  may  be  told  to  warm  it  and 
bring  it  to  her  and  it  will  serve  for  the  child  also."  R.  Me- 
sharshia  remarked:  "  The  mother  has  been  eating  dry  dates  for 
some  time  (then  she  certainly  does  not  need  any  warm  water)." 
Rejoined  Rabba:  "  She  is  not  quite  herself  and  knows  not  what 
she  eats." 

Another  case  of  this  kind  happened  with  a  child.  So  Rabba 
said:  Let  the  belongings  of  the  men  be  taken  from  the  men's 
room  into  the  women's  apartment;  I  shall  then  resign  my  place 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  i6i 

for  the  benefit  of  others  and  the  warm  water  may  be  brought 
from  my  house. 

Said  Rabhina  to  Rabba:  "  Did  not  Samuel  say,  that  it  is  not 
allowed  to  resign  the  space  of  one  court  to  another?"  and 
Rabba  answered:  "  I  hold  with  R.  Johanan  who  permits  this  to 
be  done."  Rejoined  Rabhina:  "  If  thou  dost  not  hold  with 
Samuel,  why  then  didst  thou  order  the  belongings  of  the  men  to 
be  transferred  to  the  women's  apartments  ?  Thou  shouldst  have 
resigned  thy  place  to  them  and  they  their  place  to  thee,  then  all 
of  you  will  be  enabled  to  carry,  which  according  to  Rabh  is  also 
permissible."  Rabba  replied:  "  In  this  respect  I  hold  with 
Samuel  in  order  that  it  should  not  appear  as  a  farce  if  I  resign 
my  place  to  the  others  and  they  their  place  to  me." 

The  text  states,  that  Rabh  permits  the  mutual  resigning  of 
places  and  Samuel  prohibits  it.  Said  R.  Ashi:  Rabh  and 
Samuel  differ  in  the  same  point  as  R.  Eliezer  and  the  sages  (in 
Chapter  II.,  last  Mishna,  where  R.  Eliezer  forbids  the  inmate  of 
a  court  who  had  forgotten  to  join  in  the  Erub  to  cany  and  per- 
mits the  other  inmates  to  do  so). 

' '  R.  Gamaliel  related :  It  happetied  that  a  Sadducee, ' '  etc. 
Whence  this  reference  to  a  Sadducee  ?  The  Mishna  is  not  com- 
plete and  should  read  thus:  A  Sadducee  is  considered  the 
same  as  a  Gentile,  and  R.  Gamaliel  said:  "  He  is  not  considered 
as  a  Gentile, "  and  then  relates  the  incident :  "  It  happened,  that 
a  Sadducee  dwelt  with  us  in  one  alley  in  Jerusalem,  and  my 
father  said  to  us :  *  Make  haste  and  bring  out  all  your  vessels 
into  the  alley,  before  the  Sadducee  can  do  this  and  thus  prevent 
you  from  doing  so.'  "  We  have  also  learned  to  this  effect  in  a 
Boraitha,  viz. :  "  An  Israelite  who  lives  in  the  same  court  with  a 
Gentile,  a  Sadducee,  or  a  Bathusee,  is  prevented  by  them  (from 
carrying  therein).  R.  Gamaliel,  however,  said  this  does  not 
apply  to  a  Sadducee  or  a  Bathusee,  and  it  happened  that  a  Sad- 
ducee lived  in  the  same  alley  with  him  in  Jerusalem,  so  he  said 
to  his  children :  "  Make  haste  and  carry  out  all  your  vessels  into 
the  alley,  before  that  unworthy  one  can  come  out  and  prevent 
you  from  doing  so ;  for  so  far  he  has  resigned  his  place  to  yow 
(but  later  he  may  change  his  mind)."  So  said  R.  Meir.  R. 
Jehudah,  however,  gave  another  version  of  the  affair,  viz.  :  Make 
haste  and  do  what  is  necessary  for  you  in  the  alley,  before  it 
becomes  dark;  for  after  dark  the  Sadducee  will  prevent  you 
from  doing  so  (meaning  that  the  Sadducee,  like  a  Gentile,  can- 
not resign  his  place  to  the  Israelites).     Shall  we  assume  then, 

VOL.    III. — II 


i62  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

therefrom,  that  if  tlie  Israelites  do  a  thing  before  the  Sadducee 
that  he  cannot  prevent  them  later  ?  Have  we  not  learned  in  a 
Mishna  ?  "  One  who,  after  resigning  his  place,  carries  out  inten- 
tionally or  inadvertently  into  the  court,  prevents  the  others 
from  doing  so.  So  said  R.  Meir  ? "  Said  R.  Joseph:  "Say, 
that  he  does  not  prevent  the  others."  Abayi  says:  There  is  no 
difificulty.  The  Mishna  by  stating  that  he  prevents  the  others 
means  to  say,  if  he  had  previously  carried  out  things  (before 
the  others  did  so)  as  we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  If  after 
resigning  his  place,  a  man  carried  out  things  into  the  court, 
either  intentionally  or  inadvertently,  he  prevents  the  others  from 
doing  so,  so  said  R.  Meir.  R.  Jehudah  said  "  only  if  he  did  so 
intentionally."  All  agree,  however,  that  such  is  only  the  case, 
if  the  other  inmates  of  the  court  had  not  carried  out  things 
before  he  did,  but  if  they  had  done  so,  he  does  not  prevent  them 
at  all,  whether  he  had  carried  out  things  intentionally  or  unin- 
tentionally. 

The  master  said:  "  R.  Jehudah,  however,  gave  another  ver- 
sion of  the  affair.  Then  R.  Jehudah  holds,  that  the  Sadducee 
is  considered  as  a  Gentile,  and  in  the  Mishna  we  have  learned, 
that  R.  Gamaliel  said:  "  Lest  the  Sadducee  bring  out  /its  ves- 
sels," etc.  This  presents  no  difficulty.  There  are  two  kinds  of 
Sadducees.  One  who  publicly  violates  the  Sabbath  is  consid- 
ered as  a  Gentile,  and  one  who  does  so  secretly,  is  not  considered 
as  a  Gentile.  According  to  whose  opinion  will  the  following 
Boraitha  be :  "  One  who  publicly  violates  the  Sabbath,  cannot 
resign  his  place  ?"     According  to  the  opinion  of  R.  Jehudah. 

Once  a  man  went  out  on  the  Sabbath  with  a  bundle  of  spices 
in  his  hand,  and  seeing  the  approach  of  R.  Jehudah  the  Third, 
he  concealed  it.  Said  R.  Jehudah  the  Third :  According  to  R. 
Jehudah  a  man  of  this  kind  may  resign  his  place,  as  we  have 
learned  in  another  Boraitha:  An  apostate  who  does  not  violate 
the  Sabbath  in  the  markets  may  resign  his  place,  but  one  who 
does  violate  the  Sabbath  in  the  markets  cannot  do  so ;  for  it  was 
said,  that  only  an  Israelite  may  resign  his  place  or  accept  ground 
resigned  to  him  by  another,  but  from  a  Gentile  the  place  must 
be  rented.  How  may  a  place  be  resigned  by  Israelites  ?  One 
says  to  the  other:  My  place  is  sold  to  thee  or  my  place  is  resigned 
to  thee,  and  no  token  of  acceptance  is  necessary. 

MISHNA:  Should  one  of  the  householders  of  a  court  forget, 
and  not  join  in  the  Erub,  neither  he  nor  the  other  inmates  of  the 
court  are  allowed  to  carry  anything  into  or  out  of  his  house. 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  ^63 

but  he  and  they  may  carry  into  or  out  of  their  houses.  If  the 
other  inmates  have  resigned  to  him  their  common  right  to  the 
court,  he  is  permitted  to  carry  therein,  but  they  must  not  do  so. 
Should  there  be  two  persons  who  have  neglected  to  combine  in 
an  Erub,  they  mutually  prevent  each  other;  for  one  individual 
can  resign  his  right  to  the  court  or  can  acquire  that  right ;  but 
two  persons,  though  permitted  to  jointly  resign  their  right, 
cannot  jointly  acquire  the  right  to  the  exclusive  use  of  the 
court. 

From  what  time  is  the  right  to  be  conferred  ?  Beth  Sham- 
mai  hold,  "  While  it  is  yet  daylight,"  but  Beth  Hillel  maintains 
even  from  dusk  (on  the  eve  of  Sabbath). ' '  Whoever  resigns  his 
right  (to  the  court)  and  afterwards  either  intentionally  or  inad- 
vertently carries  within  it,  prevents  (renders  it  unlawful  for)  the 
others  from  doing  so.  Such  is  the  dictum  of  R.  Meir.  R. 
Jehudah,  however,  said:  If  he  carries  (within  the  court)  inten- 
tionally, he  prevents  them,  but  if  inadvertently,  he  does  not. 

GEMARA:  Is  it  unlawful  only  to  carry  into  and  out  of  his 
house,  but  carrying  into  and  out  of  the  court  it  is  lawful  ?  How 
was  the  case  ?  If  he  resigned  his  right  to  the  house  why  should 
it  be  unlawful  (to  carry  into)  the  house;  if  he  did  not  resign  his 
right  to  the  house,  why  should  they  all  have  a  right  to  the  court  ? 
In  this  case,  the  man  had  resigned  his  right  to  the  court  alone 
but  not  to  his  house,  and  the  sages  maintain,  that  by  resigning 
his  right  to  the  court  he  did  not  also  resign  his  right  to  his 
house,  and  there  are  men  who  live  in  houses  that  have  no  court. 
Why  then  is  it  lawful  for  him  to  carry  in  and  out  of  their  houses  ? 
Because  he  is  considered  as  a  guest. 

"  If  the  other  inmates  have  resigned  to  him,''  etc.  Will  they 
then  be  considered  as  his  guests  ?  One  man  can  be  the  guest  of 
five,  but  five  men  cannot  be  considered  the  guests  of  one.  Can 
we  adduce  from  this  clause  in  the  Mishna  that  this  resigning  of 
the  right  (to  a  place)  can  be  repeated  mutually  several  times  ? 
The  Mishna  may  mean  to  state  that  the  other  inmates  had 
already  previously  resigned  their  rights  to  the  one  man,  in  which 
case  it  becomes  lawful  for  him,  but  not  for  them. 

"  Should  there  be  two  persons,''  etc.  Is  this  not  self-evident  ? 
The  case  is,  if  after  having  forgotten  to  join  in  the  Erub,  one  of 
the  two  persons  resigned  his  right  to  his  house  and  also  the  right 
to  the  part  of  the  court  renounced  to  him  by  the  others.  We 
might  assume  that  this  could  be  lawfully  done.  We  are  there- 
fore told  that  the  otlier  inmates  having  resigned  their  rights  to 


i64  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

the  two  persons  jointly,  one  of  them  individually  cannot  resign 
his  right,  because  he  had  not  an  individual  right  at  that  time. 

* '  For  one  individual  can  resign  his  right, ' '  etc.  This  was  j  ust 
stated  in  the  Mishna,  what  need  is  there  of  the  repetition  ?  We 
have  learned  both  concerning  resigning  and  acquiring  a  right  ? 
The  latter  part  of  the  clause,  which  teaches  that  two  persons 
may  resign  their  right,  but  must  not  acquire  it,  is  essential. 
This,  however,  is  also  self-evident  ?  We  might  assume,  that  a 
precautionary  measure  is  necessary  prohibiting  two  to  resign 
their  right,  lest  one  resign  his  to  two ;  therefore  we  are  told,  that 
such  a  precaution  is  not  necessary. 

"  Two  persons  cannot  jointly  acquire  the  right."  Why  this 
repetition  again  ?  Here  we  are  told,  that  two  persons  must  not 
acquire  the  right  even  when  presented  with  the  ground  in  ques- 
tion outright,  so  that  they  have  the  privilege  of  transferring  it  to 
others. 

Abayi  asked  of  Rabba:  "  If  five  men  inhabited  one  court  and 
one  of  them  had  forgotten  to  join  in  the  Erub,  must  he  resign 
his  right  to  each  of  the  others  individually  or  can  he  do  so  col- 
lectively ? "  Rabba  answered:  "  He  must  do  so  to  each  indi- 
vidually." Rejoined  Abayi:  "  We  have  learned,  that  one  who 
had  not  joined  in  an  Erub,  may  resign  his  right  to  another  that 
had,  and  two  persons  who  had  joined  in  an  Erub  may  resign  their 
right  to  one  who  had  not;  two  who  had  not  joined  in  an  Erub 
may  also  resign  their  right  to  two  others  who  had  not,  but  one 
who  had  not  joined  in  an  Erub  must  not  resign  his  right  to 
another  in  the  same  condition  nor  may  two  who  had  not  joined 
in  an  Erub  resign  their  right  to  two  others,  who  were  similarly 
situated.  It  says,  then,  that  one  who  had  not  joined  in  an 
Erub,  may  resign  his  right  to  one  who  had.  The  one  who  had, 
certainly  must  have  had  another  person  to  combine  an  Erub  with 
him,  then  it  seems  to  be  sufficient  if  he  (who  had  not  joined) 
resigned  his  right  to  the  one  man  only  and  not  to  the  other 
also  ?  "  Rabba  replied  :  "  Yea,  he  certainly  had  a  companion  in 
the  Erub,  but  it  may  be  the  case,  that  the  companion  died  and 
he  was  left  alone." 

Rabha  asked  R.  Na'hman:  "  May  an  heir  (whose  father  died 
on  the  Sabbath)  resign  his  right  or  not  ?  Shall  I  say,  that 
because  he  could  not  prepare  the  Erub  on  the  preceding  day, 
not  having  his  own  property,  he  cannot  resign  his  right  on  the 
Sabbath;  or  that  he,  being  a  descendant  of  his  father,  has  also 
inherited  his  father's   right?"       Answered   R.    Na'hman:    "I 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  165 

hold,  that  he  may,  but  the  disciples  of  Samuel  maintain,  that  he 
must  not."  Rabha  objected:  We  have  learned:  This  is  the 
rule :  A  thing  that  had  been  permissible  on  part  of  the  Sabbath  is 
permissible  for  the  entire  Sabbath,  and  that  which  was  prohibited 
for  part  of  the  Sabbath  was  also  prohibited  for  the  entire  Sab- 
bath. What  is  meant  by  "  had  been  permissible  on  part  of  the 
Sabbath  ?  "  e.g.,  a  door  which  was  used  for  making  the  Erub  and 
had  become  closed  up  during  the  Sabbath,  and  "  by  prohibited 
for  part  of  the  Sabbath  "  is  meant,  e.g.,  two  houses,  each  one  of 
which  stood  on  the  opposite  sides  of  a  wide  street  and  a  parti- 
tion was  made  by  Gentiles  on  the  Sabbath.  The  exception  is  as 
regards  one  who  resigned  his  right,  i.e.,  although  a  man  had 
forgotten  to  join  in  an  Erub  before  the  Sabbath,  he  was  not 
permitted  to  carry  on  part  of  Sabbath,  still  he  may  on  the  Sab- 
bath resign  his  right  to  the  place  and  carry.  It  says,  however, 
that  only  the  man  may  carry  but  not  his  heir  ?  Replied  R. 
Na'hman:  "  Learn:  instead  of  *  the  exception  is  as  regards  one 
who  resigns  his  right,'  the  exception  is  the  law  pertaining  to  the 
resigning  of  a  right." 

Rabha  raised  another  objection:  We  have  learned:  "If 
one  of  the  householders  of  a  court  died  and  left  his  right  to  the 
ground  to  one  living  in  the  market,  if  the  death  took  place  while 
it  was  yet  day  before  the  Sabbath,  the  man  living  in  the  market 
impedes  the  inmates  of  the  court ;  but  if  the  death  took  place 
after  dusk,  he  does  not.  If  a  man,  however,  living  in  the  mar- 
ket, was  possessed  of  a  house  and  having  died  left  his  right  to 
his  place  to  one  of  the  inmates  of  the  court,  then  the  reverse  is 
the  case,  i.e.,  if  he  died  before  Sabbath  set  in,  the  inmate  of  the 
court  does  not  impede  the  others,  (because  he  could  have  joined 
in  an  Erub) ;  but  if  the  man  died  on  the  Sabbath,  he  does 
impede  the  others."  Now  if  thou  sayest,  that  the  heir  may 
resign  the  right,  let  him  do  so,  why  should  he  impede  the 
others  ?  Answered  R.  Na'hman:  "  This  means,  that  he  impedes 
the  others  only  until  he  resigns  his  right." 

R.  Johanan  said :  The  above  Boraitha  is  according  to  Beth 
Shammai,  who  hold,  that  it  is  not  allowed  to  resign  a  right  on 
Sabbath  as  we  have  learned  in  our  Mishna:  From  what  time  may 
the  right  be  resigned  ?  Beth  Shammai  hold  "  while  it  is  yet 
daylight,"  and  Beth  Hillel  maintain:  "  From  dusk." 

Said  Ula:  Why  do  Beth  Hillel  hold,  that  it  may  be  done 
on  Sabbath  ?  The  reason  of  Beth  Hillel  is  based  upon  an  in- 
stance where  a  man  was  about  to  separate  heave-offerings  for 


i66  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

another  without  being  told  to  do  so.  In  the  meantime  this 
other  man  came  along  and  saw  that  the  heave-offerings  were 
being  separated  for  him,  whereupon  he  said  to  the  man:  "  Sep- 
arate it  from  the  finer  grain."  In  that  case  the  heave-offering  is 
valid.  Why  ?  Because  by  the  statement  "  separate  it  from  the 
finer  grain"  he  demonstrated  his  approval  of  the  man's  action 
and  his  intention  to  have  done  this  at  all  events.  The  same  is 
the  case  with  a  man  who  resigns  his  right  on  the  Sabbath ;  for 
he  demonstrates  that  his  intention  had  been  to  join  in  the  Erub 
on  the  preceding  day,  but  he  had  forgotten. 

Said  Abayi  to  him :  If  this  be  the  reason  of  Beth  Hillel, 
what  about  the  case  of  a  Gentile  who  lived  in  the  same  court 
with  two  Israelites  and  happened  to  die  on  the  Sabbath  ?  The 
Israelites  are  permitted  in  that  event  to  resign  their  rights  to 
each  other,  but  can  it  be  said  that  their  intention  dated  from  the 
preceding  day  ?  Hence  the  reason  of  Beth  Hillel  is  simply  this: 
While  Beth  Shammai  prohibit  the  resigning  of  the  right  to  a 
place  because  they  hold,  that  it  is  equal  to  selling  the  place  and 
selling  or  buying  is  prohibited  on  the  Sabbath,  Beth  Hillel  how- 
ever hold,  that  resigning  the  right  to  a  place  is  simply  abandon- 
ing the  place,  and  that  is  permissible  on  the  Sabbath. 

MISHNA:  Should  a  householder  be  in  partnership  in  wine 
with  two  of  his  neighbors  (residing  in  the  same  alley),  they  do 
not  require  an  Erub;  if  he  be  in  partnership  with  one  in  wine 
and  with  another  in  oil,  they  do  require  an  Erub.  R.  Simeon 
said:  Neither  in  one  case  nor  in  the  other  do  they  require  an 
Erub. 

GEMARA:  Said  RabK:  "  Such  is  the  case  if  the  wine  was 
contained  in  one  vessel."  And  Rabha  said:  "This  may  be 
inferred  from  the  Mishna  itself;  for  the  latter  clause  of  the 
Mishna  states,  that  if  the  householder  be  in  partnership  with 
one  in  wine  and  with  another  in  oil,  they  require  an  Erub.  It 
would  therefore  be  correct  if  in  the  first  clause  the  wine  is  con^ 
tained  in  one  vessel  and  in  the  second  clause  there  are  two  sep- 
arate vessels ;  but  were  there  two  vessels  in  the  first  clause  also, 
what  difference  would  it  make  whether  one  vessel  was  filled  with 
oil  and  the  other  with  wine,  or  both  with  wine  ?  "  Rejoined 
Abayi :  This  is  no  argument.  Wine  can  be  mixed  with  wine 
(hence,  even  if  it  be  in  two  vessels  it  can  be  mixed  and  an  Erub 
made  with  it  is  valid),  but  oil  and  wine  cannot  be  mixed,  and 
even  though  there  are  two  separate  vessels  the  Erub  cannot  be 
made  therewith. 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  167 

R.  Simeon  said :  "  Neither  in  one  case  nor  in  the  other  do  they 
require  an  Eriib."  Is  it  possible  that  R.  Simeon  holds,  that 
even  where  one  vessel  contains  wine  and  the  other  oil,  no  further 
Erub  is  necessary  ?  Said  Rabba:  "  The  case  referred  to  applies 
to  a  court  between  two  entries  (alleys)  and  R.  Simeon  holds  to 
his  theory,  as  we  have  learned  in  the  case  of  the  three  courts 
opening  into  each  other  and  also  into  the  street,  that  communi- 
cation between  the  middle  court  and  the  two  outer  or  between 
the  two  outer  ones  and  the  middle  one  is  permissible ;  thus  in  this 
case  R.  Simeon  means  to  imply,  that  the  court  made  an  Erub 
with  one  of  the  entries  by  means  of  wine  and  with  the  other  by 
means  of  oil,  hence  no  additional  Erub  is  necessary,  and  com- 
munication between  the  court  and  both  entries  is  permissible." 

Abayi  objected:  "How  canst  thou  compare  the  two 
instances  ?  In  the  case  of  the  three  courts  communication 
between  the  two  outer  is  prohibited,  whereas  here  it  is  said 
that  no  additional  Erub  whatever  is  necessary?"  Learn  also 
here,  that  no  additional  Erub  is  necessary  to  allow  of  communi- 
cation between  the  court  and  the  entries,  but  if  the  inmates  of 
either  of  the  entries  desire  to  carry  in  the  other  they  must  make 
an  additional  Erub. 

R.  Joseph,  however,  said:  "  R.  Simeon  and  the  sages  differ 
in  the  same  point  as  R.  Johanan  ben  Nouri  and  the  sages  in 
another  Mishna  as  follows:  *  If  oil  floated  on  wine  and  a  man 
who  had  bathed  before  sunset  (and  hence  was  not  yet  ritually 
clean)  touched  the  oil,  the  sages  hold,  that  the  oil  becomes 
unclean,  but  the  wine  is  not  affected.  R.  Johanan  ben  Nouri, 
however,  maintains,  that  the  wine  and  the  oil  are  attached  to 
each  other  and  therefore  both  become  unclean. '  "  In  our  Mishna, 
the  sages  hold  with  the  sages  of  the  Mishna  quoted,  and  R. 
Simeon  holds  with  R.  Johanan  ben  Nouri. 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha :  R.  Elazar  ben  Tadai  said : 
"  In  either  case  they  require  an  additional  Erub."  Even  if 
both  vessels  contain  wine  an  additional  Erub  is  necessary  ? 
Answered  Rabba:  The  case  is  thus:  If  two  men  each  bring  a 
jug  of  wine  and  pour  the  wine  together,  there  is  no  question  but 
what  that  constitutes  a  legal  Erub,  but  in  this  instance  R.  Elazar 
ben  Tadai  means  to  state  that  if  two  men  bought  a  cask  of  wine 
jointly  and  had  not  yet  separated  their  shares,  the  Erub  is  not 
valid  because  it  cannot  be  made  with  anything  owned  in  part- 
nership, and  he  holds  thus  for  the  reason  that  he  does  not 
accept  the  theory  of  premeditated  choice.     The  sages,  however, 


i68  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

permit  this  mode  of  procedure,  because  they  accept  the  theory 
of  premeditated  choice. 

R.  Joseph  said:  "  R.  Elazar  ben  Tadai  and  the  sages  differ 
on  another  point,  namely:  The  question  whether  the  inmates  of 
the  court  can  depend  upon  the  combine  made  in  the  entries." 
All  agree  that  carrying  in  the  entries  is  permissible  if  the  Erub 
has  been  made  there,  but  R.  Elazar  ben  Tadai  holds,  that  this 
is  not  permitted  in  the  court  because  the  combine  made  in  the 
entries  cannot  be  depended  upon,  while  the  sages  hold  that  it 
may  be  depended  upon. 

R,  Joseph  continued:  "  Whence  do  I  know,  that  this  is  the 
point  of  difference  ?  From  the  statement  of  R.  Jehudah  in  the 
name  of  Rabh,  to  the  effect  that  the  Halakha  prevails  accord- 
ing to  R.  Meir,  and  the  subsequent  statement  of  R.  Bronain  the 
name  of  Rabh,  that  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R. 
Elazar  ben  Tadai.  Therefore,  we  must  assume,  that  R.  Meir 
and  R.  Elazar  have  one  and  the  same  reason."  Said  Abayi: 
"  This  may  be  so;  but  why  did  Rabh  say  at  one  time  that  the 
Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Meir  and  at  another  time 
according  to  R.  Elazar  ben  Tadai  ?  Would  it  not  be  sufficient 
to  state,  that  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  one  of  the  two  ?  " 
(And  R.  Joseph  answered:)  "  Rabh  desires  to  inform  us  that 
wherever  the  laws  of  Erub  are  concerned  and  two  Tanaim 
differ  as  to  the  details,  but  agree  as  to  the  main  issue  of  the 
Halakha,  and  we  say  that  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  both, 
we  need  not  abide  by  the  more  rigorous  decisions  of  each  but, 
on  the  contrary,  should  accept  the  more  lenient  decrees  of  both." 

Which  R.  Meir  is  referred  to  by  Rabh  ?  The  one  figuring 
in  the  following  Boraitha:  In  courts  an  Erub  must  be  made 
with  bread,  but  it  is  not  allowed  to  do  so  with  wine.  In  the 
entries  a  combine  must  be  effected  with  wine,  but  if  the  inmates 
desired  to  do  so  with  bread,  it  is  permissible.  An  Erub  must 
be  made  in  the  courts  and  a  combine  in  the  entries  in  order  that 
the  growing  children  should  not  forget  the  laws  of  Erub  and 
say,  "Our  parents  did  not  make  an  Erub. ' '  Such  is  the  decree  of 
R.  Meir;  the  sages,  however,  say:  Either  an  Erub  or  a  com- 
bine must  be  effected  {i.e.,  if  one  was  omitted  the  other  can  be 
depended  upon).* 

R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh  said:  "  The   Halakha  pre- 


*  The  explanation  to  this  Boraitha,  as  given  by  Rashi,  will  be  embodied  in  the 
text  throughout  this  Tract, 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  169 

vails  according  to  R.  Meir."  R.  Huna  said:  "The  custom 
prevails  according  to  R.  Meir,"  and  R.  Johanan  said:  "The 
masses  only  act  in  accordance  with  the  dictum  of  R.  Meir."  * 

MISHNA:  Should  five  different  companies  take  their  Sab- 
bath-rest in  one  hall  (triclinium),  Beth  Shammai  hold,  that  each 
company  requires  a  separate  Erub,  but  Beth  Hillel  hold,  that 
one  Erub  suffices  for  all  of  them.  The  latter  school  admit,  how- 
ever, that  if  any  of  these  companies  occupy  distinct  chambers 
or  attics,  each  company  requires  a  separate  Erub. 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Na'hman:  "  The  two  schools  differ  only 
as  regards  a  low  centre-partition,  but  if  there  was  a  partition  ten 
spans  high  between  each  of  the  companies,  all  agree  that  each 
company  requires  a  separate  Erub."  According  to  another 
version,  R.  Na'hman  is  supposed  to  have  said  :  "  They  differ  not 
only  as  regards  a  low  centre-partition,  but  also  concerning  parti- 
tions between  each  company." 

R.  Jehudah  the  Sagacious  said :  The  schools  of  Shammai 
and  Hillel  do  not  differ  where  partitions  that  reach  to  the  ceiling 
of  the  hall  are  concerned,  they  agree  that  in  that  event  each 
company  requires  a  separate  Erub.  Wherein  they  do  differ, 
however,  is  if  the  partitions  do  not  reach  the  ceiling.  Said  R. 
Na'hman  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  The  Halakha  prevails  according 
to  R.  Jehudah  the  Sagacious. 

R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak  said :  We  can  infer  this  from  the 
Mishna  itself.  The  latter  clause  of  the  Mishna  states,  that  Beth 
Hillel  also  agree  with  Beth  Shammai  if  the  companies  each  dwell 
in  distinct  chambers  or  attics.  What  is  meant  by  distinct  cham- 
bers and  attics  ?  Shall  we  say,  that  they  are  really  chambers  and 
attics  ?  Then  it  would  be  self-evident.  We  must  say,  then, 
that  they  are  similar  to  chambers  and  attics,  i.e.,  that  the  refer- 
ence is  to  partitions  which  reach  to  the  ceiling.  Hence  the  deduc- 
tion that  the  decree  of  R.  Jehudah  the  Sagacious  is  correct. 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  The  difference  of  opinion 
between  the  two  schools  centres  in  the  question  whether  the 
companies  deposited  their  Erubin  elsewhere.  But  if  the  Erub 
is  deposited  in  the  hall  occupied  by  them,  all  agree  that  one 
Erub  is  sufficient  for  all.  According  to  whose  opinion  will  be  the 
statement  of  the  following  Boraitha,  that  if  five  men  combined 
an  Erub,  one  Erub  is  sufficient  for  all  of  them  ?  This  is  in 
accordance  with  the  opinion  of  Beth  Hillel. 

*  See  pages  146  and  147. 


170  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

MISHNA :  Brothers  (or  associates)  who  take  their  meals  at 
their  father's  (or  at  one)  table,  but  sleep  each  in  his  separate 
house  (in  the  same  court),  must  each  one  prepare  a  separate  Erub. 
Therefore  if  one  of  them  had  forgotten  and  not  prepared  an 
Erub,  he  must  resign  his  right  (to  the  common  court).  When 
is  this  the  case  ?  When  the  Erub  had  been  deposited  in  some 
other  place;  but  if  the  Erub  has  been  placed  with  them,  or  if 
there  are  no  other  inhabitants  in  the  court,  they  need  not  pre- 
pare any  Erub  whatsoever." 

GEMARA:  From  this  Mishna  it  maybe  adduced,  that  an 
Erub  should  be  made  in  the  place  where  a  man  sleeps  and  not 
where  he  takes  his  meals  (and  further,  we  will  observe,  that 
Rabh  holds,  that  an  Erub  must  be  made  where  the  man  takes 
his  meals).  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh  :  The  Mishna 
means  to  say,  that  the  brothers  did  not  actually  eat  at  their 
father's  table  but  merely  received  from  their  father  the  means 
with  which  to  obtain  their  meals. 

The  Rabbis  taught :  One  who  had  a  vestibule,  a  gallery,  or 
a  balcony  in  the  court  of  another,  and  did  not  join  in  an  Erub 
with  the  other  inmates  of  the  court  does  not  impede  the  other 
inmates.  If  he  had  a  hay-loft,  a  cattle-pen,  a  woodshed,  or  a 
granary  in  the  court  of  another  and  did  not  join  in  an  Erub,  he 
does  impede  the  others.  R.  Jehudah,  however,  said:  "  Nothing 
except  a  dwelling-house  can  prove  an  interference,"  and  he  con- 
tinued: "  It  happened  that  an  inhabitant  of  Naph'ha,*  who  had 
five  courts  in  Usha,  did  not  join  in  an  Erub  with  the  inmates  of 
those  courts  and  the  question  was  laid  before  the  sages  whether 
this  was  an  impediment  to  their  carrying  within  the  courts  and 
the  sages  replied :  '  Nothing  but  an  actual  dwelling-house  can 
prove  an  impediment.'  " 

What  is  meant  by  a  dwelling-house  ?  A  house  occupied  as 
a  dwelling.  What  is  to  be  understood  by  "occupied  as  a  dwell- 
ing "  ?  Rabh  said  :  "  The  house  where  a  man  takes  his  meals," 
and  Samuel  said:  "  The  house  wherein  a  man  sleeps." 

An  objection  was  made:  The  shepherds,  those  that  guard  the 
fig-trees,  the  inhabitants  of  huts  in  the  country  and  the  guards 
of  the  fields,  when  passing  the  night  in  a  town  have  the  same 
rights  as  the  townsmen,  but  when  passing  the  night  at  their 
posts,  they  have  only  the  right  to  two  thousand  ells  from  the 
place  where  they  are  situated.  (From  this  we  can  see,  that  the 
place  where  one  passes  the  night  is  considered  as  his  abode  ?) 

*  In  the  Tosephta  this  narrative  is  told  of  the  son  of  a  prince. 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  171 

This  is  no  proof!  For  we  can  testify,  that  those  men  would  be 
much  better  satisfied  if  their  meals  were  brought  to  them  at 
their  posts  (hence  their  posts  are  not  only  their  places  of  abode 
but  also  their  eating-places,  and  as  for  those  who  pass  the  night 
in  the  town,  they  evidently  also  take  their  meals  in  the  town  for 
the  time  being). 

The  Rabbis  taught :  Concerning  five  women  who  receive 
from  their  husbands  the  means  for  securing  their  food  and  five 
slaves  who  receive  the  means  from  their  masters  to  procure  their 
sustenance  and  who  live  in  separate  houses  in  the  court,  R. 
Jehudah  ben  Bathyra  permits  the  women  to  carry  within  the 
court  and  prohibits  the  slaves  to  do  so;  but  R.  Jehudah  ben 
Babba  on  the  contrary  allows  the  slaves  to  carry  but  prohibits 
the  women  to  do  so. 

Said  Rabh:  "  What  reason  has  R.  Jehudah  ben  Babba  for 
his  decree  ?  Because  it  is  written  [Daniel  ii.  49] :  '  Daniel 
remained  in  the  gate  of  the  king,'  the  inference  is,  that  in  the 
same  manner  as  Daniel  did  not  always  remain  in  the  gate  of 
the  king,  but  his  office  being  such  that  his  place  was  there,  so  it 
is  also  with  slaves  who,  while  in  the  service  of  their  master,  are 
considered  as  being  always  at  their  master's  side."  It  is  self- 
evident  that  if  a  son  eat  and  dwell  with  his  father,  he  need  not 
make  an  Erub  as  stated  previously.  As  for  a  woman  who  has  a 
husband  and  a  slave  who  belongs  to  a  master  there  is  a  differ- 
ence of  opinion  between  R.  Jehudah  ben  Bathyra  and  R. 
Jehudah  ben  Babba.  How  about  a  disciple,  however,  who 
dwells  in  the  same  court  with  his  master  and  derives  his  suste- 
nance from  his  master  ? 

Come  and  hear:  When  Rabh  still  dwelt  with  R.  Hyya  he 
said:  "  We  need  not  join  in  an  Erub  because  we  depend  upon 
the  table  of  R.  Hyya,"  and  when  R.  Hyya  still  dwelt  with 
Rabbi  he  also  said:  "  We  need  not  make  an  Erub  because  we 
derive  our  sustenance  from  Rabbi." 

R.  Hyya  bar  Abhin  asked  of  R.  Shesheth:  "  What  about 
the  disciples  of  the  college,  who  eat  in  the  inns  of  the  valley 
and  pass  the  night  at  the  college  ?  When  the  legal  limit  of  two 
thousand  ells  is  measured  where  must  the  starting  point  be  ? 
The  college  or  the  inn  where  they  take  their  meals  ? "  R.  She- 
sheth answered:  "  The  college." 

Rami  bar  Hama  asked  of  R.  Hisda:  If  a  father  and  son, 
or  a  master  and  his  disciple,  lived  in  two  courts,  one  inside  of 
the  other,  and  the   outer  court   opened  into  an  entry,  what  is 


172  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

the  lav/  concerning  them  ?  Are  they  to  be  considered  as  if  they 
were  two  distinct  individuals  who  cannot  mutually  impede  each 
other  because  each  one  of  them  has  a  right  to  carry  in  his  own 
court  and  a  man  who  is  permitted  to  do  so  in  his  own  court  can- 
not interfere  with  a  man  in  another  place;  hence  both  father 
and  son,  or  master  and  disciple,  may  carry  each  in  their  respective 
courts ;  or,  shall  we  consider  them  collectively  because  the  son  or 
the  disciple  who  lives  in  a  separate  court  but  eats  at  his  father's 
table  has  a  certain  right  to  his  father's  court.  Thus  the  father 
or  the  master  is  not  in  sole  possession,  but  shares  it  with 
another.  The  consequence  is  that  the  father  or  the  master  is  in 
duty  bound  to  make  an  Erub  in  his  own  court  and,  on  account 
of  this,  he  becomes  one  who  can  interfere  with  the  right  of 
another,  and  prevents  his  son  from  carrying  in  his  own  (the 
son's)  court  ?  Then  again  if  they  are  considered  as  distinct 
individuals,  are  they  in  duty  bound  to  combine  an  Erub  covering 
the  two  courts  ?  Finally  if  the  two  courts  had  separate  open- 
ings into  the  entry,  are  they  considered  as  separate  courts  and 
thus  the  entry  becomes  valid  by  the  addition  thereto  of  a  cross 
and  side  beam,  or  they  are  considered  as  one  court,  and  if  one 
court  only  opens  into  an  entry,  the  entry  cannot  be  made  valid 
by  the  addition  of  a  cross  and  side  beam  ? 

Answered  R.  Hisda:  We  have  learned  this  in  a  Boraitha:  A 
father  and  his  son  or  a  teacher  and  his  disciple,  providing  there 
are  no  other  inmates  in  the  court  occupied  by  them,  are  consid- 
ered as  individuals,  and  need  not  make  an  Erub  at  any  place. 
Nevertheless  the  entry  into  which  their  court  opens  becomes 
valid  by  the  addition  thereto  of  a  cross  or  side  beam. 

MISHNA:  If  (the  householders  dwelling  in)  five  courts  that 
open  into  each  other  and  also  open  into  one  common  alley 
(entry)  have  joined  in  an  Erub  for  the  courts,  but  have  not 
combined  the  alley,  they  are  permitted  to  carry  (things)  in  the 
courts,  but  must  not  do  so  in  the  alley;  if  they  did  combine  the 
alley,  however,  they  are  permitted  to  carry  both  in  the  courts 
and  in  the  alley.  If  they  had  combined  both  the  courts  and 
the  alley,  but  one  of  the  householders  forgot  and  did  not  join  in 
the  Erub,  they  are  nevertheless  permitted  to  carry  both  in  the 
courts  and  in  the  alley.  Should  one  of  the  householders  (dwell- 
ing) in  the  alley  have  forgotten  to  join  in  the  Erub,  it  is  per- 
mitted to  carry  (things)  in  the  court  but  not  in  the  alley,  inas- 
much as  the  alley  (bears  the  same  relation)  to  the  courts  as  the 
court  (does)  to  the  houses  within  it. 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  173 

GEMARA:  According  to  whose  opinion  is  our  Mishna  ? 
We  must  say  that  it  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Meir,  who  holds 
that  an  Erub  is  needed  in  the  court,  and  a  combination  in  the 
alley.  How,  then,  could  that  part  of  the  Mishna  be  explained, 
which  states  that  if  a  combination  in  the  alley  is  made  it  is 
allowed  to  carry  both  (in  the  courts  and  in  the  alley) ;  and  this  is 
certainly  according  to  the  opinion  of  the  Rabbis,  who  hold  that 
one  of  the  two  is  sufficient  {i.e.,  either  an  Erub  in  the  courts  or 
a  combination  in  the  alley)  ?  Are  then  the  two  parts  of  the 
Mishna  based  on  different  opinions  ?  This  presents  no  difficulty. 
The  latter  part  of  the  Mishna  refers  to  a  case  where  a  combina- 
tion had  already  been  made  in  the  alley ;  hence  it  is  according 
to  R.  Meir's  opinion.  Now,  then,  what  is  the  reason  of  R. 
Meir  in  stating  that  if  one  of  the  householders  in  the  court  for- 
got and  did  not  join  in  the  Erub,  it  is  nevertheless  permitted  to 
carry  both  in  the  courts  and  in  the  alley  ?  R.  Meir  may  hold  as 
follows:  The  most  essential  feature  of  this  case  is  to  make  an 
Erub  in  the  courts  and  a  combine  should  also  be  made  in  the 
alley  for  the  benefit  of  the  growing  children  in  order  that  they 
may  not  forget  the  laws  of  Erubin.  Hence  if  the  combination 
has  been  made  both  in  the  courts  and  in  the  alley,  in  which  the 
majority  participated,  there  is  no  fear  of  the  children  forgetting 
the  laws. 

R.  Jehudah  said:  "  Rabh  does  not  learn  in  the  Mishna  that 
the  five  courts  opened  into  each  other  but  merely  that  they  all 
opened  into  one  common  alley."  This  was  corroborated  by  R. 
Kahana.  What  reason  did  Rabh  have  to  learn  thus  ?  He  holds, 
that  if  several  courts  open  into  one  common  alley,  a  cross  and 
side  beam  suffice  to  make  that  alley  valid.  If,  however,  only 
one  court  open  into  the  alley,  a  cross  and  side  beam  do  not 
suffice.  Samuel,  however,  said:  "  Even  if  only  one  court  or 
one  house  open  into  an  alley,  a  cross  and  side  beam  suffice  for 
the  alley."  R.  Johanan  said:  Even  if  a  ruin  open  into  an  alley, 
a  cross  and  side  beam  suffice. 

Abayi  asked  of  R.  Joseph:  "  Does  R.  Johanan  hold,  that 
even  if  the  path  leading  to  a  vineyard  open  into  an  alley,  a  cross 
and  side  beam  suffice  for  the  alley  ?  "  R.  Joseph  replied:  "  Nay; 
R.  Johanan  meant  to  say  a  ruin  which  (in  an  emergency)  could 
be  inhabited ;  but  a  path  which  could  not  under  any  circum- 
stances be  inhabited,  is  out  of  the  question." 

Said  R.  Huna  bar  Hinana:  R.  Johanan's  statement  con- 
cerning a  ruin  is  but  in  accordance  with  his  theory  expressed  in 


174  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

his  decision  regarding  the  Mishna  (Chapter  IX.,  Mishna  i,  of 
this  tract)  where  R.  Simeon  says  that  "  roofs  as  well  as  courts 
and  woodsheds  constitute  the  same  kind  of  premises  for  the  car- 
rying of  all  utensils  contained  therein  when  the  Sabbath-rest 
began,"  etc.  This  was  commented  by  Rabh  as  follows:  "  The 
Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Simeon  provided  no  Erub  was 
combined  by  the  inmates  of  each  separate  court,"  meaning 
thereby  that  if  no  Erub  was  combined,  the  inmates  will  not  carry 
out  any  vessels  from  their  houses  into  the  court.  Samuel  and 
R.  Johanan,  however,  declare  that  the  Halakha  prevails  accord- 
ing to  R.  Simeon,  even  if  an  Erub  was  combined,  as  there  is 
no  apprehension  that  the  inmates  will  carry  out  any  vessels 
from  their  houses  into  the  court,  and  as  in  this  case  there  is  no 
apprehension  that  the  vessels  will  be  carried  out  of  the  houses, 
so  also  in  the  case  of  a  ruin,  R.  Johanan  holds,  that  there  is  no 
fear  of  the  inmates  carrying  vessels  from  the  court  into  the  ruin 
by  way  of  the  alley. 

R.  Brona  sate  and  repeated  the  Halakha  decreed  by  Samuel 
(to  the  effect  that  even  if  one  court  or  one  house  opened  into 
an  alley,  a  cross  and  side  beam  was  sufificient  for  the  alley).  Said 
R.  Eliezer,  one  of  the  schoolmen,  to  R.  Brona:  "  Did  Samuel 
indeed  say  this  ?"  and  R.  Brona  answered:  "  Yea."  R.  Eliezer 
then  asked  to  be  shown  where  Samuel  resided,  and  R.  Brona 
showed  him.  R.  Eliezer  then  came  before  .Samuel  and  said: 
"Did  master  decree  thus?"  and  the  answer  was:  "Yea." 
Rejoined  the  schoolman:  "  Didst  thou  not  state  previously  that 
where  the  laws  of  Erubin  are  concerned,  we  must  hold  strictly 
to  the  literal  text  of  the  Mishna  and  the  Mishna  distinctly 
teaches:  '  The  alley  bears  the  same  relation  to  the  courts  as  the 
court  (does)  to  the  houses  within  it.'  "     Samuel  remained  silent. 

Does  the  silence  of  Samuel  signify,  that  he  accepted  R. 
Eliezer's  view  or  that  he  did  not  care  to  reply  ?  Come  and  hear: 
A  certain  Aibuth  bar  Ihi  dwelt  in  an  alley  and  erected  a  side- 
beam  therein.  Samuel  told  him  that  this  complied  with  the 
legal  requirements.  After  the  death  of  Samuel,  R.  Anan  came 
and  destroyed  the  side-beam.  Said  Aibuth:  "  In  an  alley  where 
I  live  by  the  direct  permission  of  our  master  Samuel,  a  mere 
disciple  like  R.  Anan  dares  to  come  and  destroy  my  side-beam." 
Hence  we  see,  that  Samuel  did  not  accept  the  opinion  of  R. 
Eliezer!  This  is  not  conclusive  evidence  !  The  case  of  the  alley 
could  be  explained  as  follows:  The  sexton  of  the  synagogue 
took  his  meals  with  this  Aibuth  bar  Ihi,  but  lodged  in  the  syna- 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  175 

gogue.  Aibuth  was  of  the  opinion  that  the  residence  is  deter- 
mined by  the  place  where  he  takes  his  meals,  hence  the  sexton 
and  he  were  the  occupants  of  one  house;  (and  Samuel  declared 
his  alley  to  be  valid  in  conformity  with  his  original  decision,  that 
if  one  court  or  one  house  opened  into  an  alley  a  cross  and  side 
beam  is  sufificient  for  the  alley)  but  Samuel,  who  held  that  the 
residence  of  a  man  is  determined  by  his  lodging-place,  may  have 
accepted  the  opinion  of  R.  Eliezer,  and  taking  into  consideration 
that  there  were  two  dwellings  in  the  alley,  that  of  Aibuth  and 
that  of  the  sexton,  he  made  the  alley  valid  by  the  addition  of  a 
side-beam. 

MISHNA:  If  two  courts  be  one  within  the  other,  should 
the  inmates  of  the  inner  court  prepare  an  Erub  and  those  of  the 
outer  court  fail  to  do  so,  the  inmates  of  the  inner  court  may 
carry  within  it,  but  those  of  the  outer  court  must  not  carry 
within  their  (own)  court.  If  the  inmates  of  the  outer  court  pre- 
pare an  Erub,  but  those  of  the  inner  court  fail  to  do  so,  neither 
are  allowed  to  carry  within  their  respective  courts.  If  each  have 
prepared  a  separate  Erub,  they  are  permitted  to  carry  within 
their  own  limits,  R.  Aqiba  holds,  however,  that  the  inmates  of 
the  outer  court  are  prohibited  to  carry  within  it  and  that  the 
right  of  thoroughfare  possessed  by  the  inner  court  renders  the 
outer  court  prohibited ;  but  the  sages  hold,  that  the  right  of 
thoroughfare  does  not  render  it  so. 

Should  one  of  the  inmates  of  the  outer  court  forget  to  join 
in  the  Erub,  it  is  permitted  to  carry  within  the  inner  court,  but 
carrying  within  the  outer  court  is  prohibited.  If  one  of  the 
inmates  of  the  inner  court  forget  to  join  in  the  Erub,  carrying 
in  either  court  is  prohibited.  If  the  inmates  of  both  courts 
deposit  their  Erub  in  one  place,  and  one  of  the  inmates  of  either 
the  outer  or  inner  court  forgot  and  did  not  join  in  the  Erub,  car- 
rylng  in  either  court  is  also  prohibited.  Should  each  court  be 
the  property  of  an  individual  (or  inhabited  by  only  one  house- 
hold), neither  require  an  Erub. 

GEMARA:  When  R.  Dimi  came  from  Palestine,  he  said  in 
the  name  of  R.  Janai:  The  latter  clause  of  the  Mishna  stating, 
that  if  one  of  the  inner  court  forget  to  join  in  the  Erub,  carry- 
ing in  either  court  is  prohibited,  is  merely  a  continuation  of  the 
dictum  of  R.  Aqiba,  who  holds,  that  a  foot  (i.e.,  a  man)  which  is 
allowed  to  carry  in  its  own  place  nevertheless  interferes  with  the 
right  of  another  place.  The  sages,  however,  hold,  that  as  a 
foot  which  is  allowed  to  carry  in  its  own  place  does  not  interfere 


176  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

with  the  right  of  another  place,  so  also  a  foot  which  is  not 
allowed  to  carry  within  its  own  place  does  not  interfere  with  the 
right  of  another  place  and  thus  the  inmates  of  both  courts  may 
carry  within  their  own  limits. 

An  objection  was  made  based  upon  a  previous  clause  in  the 
Mishna,  which  states  that  if  the  inmates  of  the  outer  court  pre- 
pare an  Erub,  but  those  of  the  inner  court  fail  to  do  so,  neither 
are  allowed  to  carry  within  their  respective  courts,  and  this  is 
certainly  not  in  accordance  with  the  opinion  of  R.  Aqiba,  because 
even  had  the  inmates  of  the  inner  court  made  an  Erub  he  would 
still  prohibit  the  outer  court  to  carry  within  their  own  court. 
(Hence  we  must  assume,  that  this  is  in  accordance  with  the 
opinion  of  the  sages,  who  hold  that  a  foot  which  is  allowed  to 
carry  within  its  own  place  does  not  interfere  with  the  right  of 
another  place,  but  one  which  is  not  allowed  does  interfere.) 
Therefore  we  must  rather  accept  the  statement  of  Rabhin  in 
the  name  of  R.  Janai:  There  are  three  different  opinions  con- 
cerning this  subject,  viz. :  The  first  Tana  of  our  Mishna  holds 
that  a  foot  which  is  allowed  to  carry  within  its  own  place  does 
not  interfere  with  the  right  of  another  place,  but  a  foot  v/hich  is 
prohibited  does  interfere  with  the  right  of  another  place.  R. 
Aqiba  holds  that  even  a  foot  which  is  allowed,  also  interferes 
with  the  right  of  another  place ;  but  the  last  sages  of  our  Mishna 
maintain,  that  as  a  foot  which  is  allowed  does  not  interfere  with 
the  right  of  another  place,  so  also  a  foot  which  is  prohibited 
does  also  not  interfere. 

"  If  the  inmates  of  both  courts  deposit  their  Erubin  in  one 
place,''  etc.  What  is  meant  by  "one  place  "  ?  Said  R.  Jehudah 
in  the  name  of  Rabh:  This  refers  to  the  outer  court  and  is  called 
"  one  place,"  because  it  is  designated  for  the  use  of  both  courts 
(as  the  inmates  of  the  inner  court  must  pass  through  the  outer). 

We  have  also  learned  in  a  Boraitha  (in  support  to  R.  Jehu- 
dah): "  If  the  Erub  was  placed  in  the  outer  court,  but  one  of 
the  inmates  either  of  the  outer  or  inner  court  forgot  to  join  in 
the  Erub,  carrying  in  either  of  the  courts  is  prohibited.  If  the 
Erub  was  deposited  in  the  inner  court,  but  one  of  the  inmates  of 
that  court  forgot  to  join  in  the  Erub,  carrying  in  either  court  is 
also  prohibited.  If  one  of  the  inmates  of  the  outer  court  forgot 
to  join  in  the  Erub,  carrying  in  either  court  is  prohibited.  Such 
is  the  dictum  of  R.  Aqiba;  the  sages,  however,  maintain  that  in 
the  last  instance  carrying  is  permitted  within  the  inner  court, 
but  prohibited  within  the  outer  court." 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  177 

Rabba  bar  Hanan  asked  Abayi:  "  Why  do  the  sages  permit 
carrying  within  the  inner  court,  because  they  can  close  their 
door  and  say  all  the  inmates  of  our  court  have  joined  in  the 
Erub  ?  Why  should  R.  Aqiba  not  take  the  same  view,  let  him 
also  say,  that  they  can  close  their  door  and  assert  their  right 
to  carry  within  their  own  court?"  Abayi  answered:  "The 
Erub  deposited  in  the  outer  court  accustoms  the  inmates  of  the 
inner  court  to  make  use  of  the  outer."  Said  Rabba  bar  Hanan 
again:  "  And  the  sages,  do  they  not  hold  that  the  Erub  of  the 
outer  court  accustoms  the  inmates  of  the  inner  court  to  walk  in 
the  outer?"  The  sages  may  maintain,  that  the  inmates  who 
have  deposited  their  Erub  can  say  to  the  one  who  forgot  to  join : 
We  have  included  thee  in  our  combination  for  thy  convenience, 
but  not  to  our  detriment.  Why  can  they  not  do  this  according 
to  R.  Aqiba  also  ?  According  to  R.  Aqiba,  the  inmates  who 
have  joined  in  the  Erub  may  say  to  the  one  who  had  forgotten: 
"  We  will  resign  our  right  to  the  place  in  thy  favor."  Why  can 
this  not  be  said  according  to  the  sages  ?  Because  the  sages  do 
not  admit  of  the  resigning  of  one's  right  to  a  place  in  one  court 
in  favor  of  one  who  resides  in  another  court. 

"  Should  each  court  be  the  property  of  an  individtial,''  etc. 
Said  R.  Joseph:  "  Rabbi  taught,  that  if  there  was  a  third  court 
between  the  two  also  belonging  to  an  individual,  it  is  not  per- 
mitted to  carry  in  either  of  the  three."  Said  R.  Bibhi  (to  the 
schoolmen):  "  Do  not  listen  to  R.  Joseph!  Rabbi  did  7iot  teach 
this ;  for  I  myself  said  it  in  the  name  of  R,  Ada  bar  Ahabha  and 
gave  as  a  reason  that  the  outer  court  will  be  traversed  by  (the 
inmates  of)  three  (courts);  therefore  I  also  prohibited  carrying 
within  the  middle  court,  lest  a  mistake  be  made  and  things  be 
carried  in  the  outer  court  also."  R.  Joseph  then  exclaimed: 
"  Lord  of  Abraham  !  I  confounded  the  word  '  Rabbim  '  (many) 
with  Rabbi ;  for  before  I  was  ill  I  heard  from  R.  Bibhi  that 
the  outer  court  will  become  a  court  for  many  (three)  and  when 
recovered  from  my  illness  I  quoted  the  Boraitha  in  the  name 
of  Rabbi."  Samuel,  however,  said:  "It  is  always  allowed  to 
carry  within  courts  for  many  (even  if  there  be  four  or  five)  pro- 
vided there  is  only  one  household  in  each  court,  but  if  there  be 
two  in  one  court  it  is  not  permitted." 

Said  R.  Elazar:  According  to  Samuel,  if  a  Gentile  live  in 
one  of  the  courts  he  is  considered  as  many  others  and  he 
impedes  the  outer  courts. 

R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said:  "  If  there  were  ten 
VOL.  ni. — 12 


178  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

houses  one  within  the  other  and  the  house  on  the  outside  opened 
into  the  court  it  is  not  necessary  for  the  inmate  of  each  house  to 
combine  in  an  Erub  with  the  other  inmates  of  the  court,  but  it 
is  sufficient  if  the  inmate  of  the  innermost  house,  who  must 
pass  through  all  the  others,  do  so,"  but  R.  Johanan  says  that 
each  inmate  must  combine;  even  the  one  living  in  the  house 
opening  directly  into  the  street.  Even  the  one  living  in  the 
uttermost  court  ?  Is  not  the  uttermost  court  to  be  regarded  as 
a  vestibule  ?  By  uttermost  he  means  to  say  the  one  next  to  the 
uttermost. 

Upon  which  point  do  Samuel  and  R.  Johanan  differ  ?  Their 
point  of  difference  is  regarding  the  definition  of  a  vestibule. 
Samuel  holds,  that  all  the  houses  leading  to  the  innermost  are 
considered  as  vestibules  hence  they  require  no  Erub,  while  R. 
Johanan  maintains  that  only  the  uttermost  house,  through  which 
all  the  other  inmates  must  pass,  can  be  considered  a  vestibule, 
but  even  the  one  next  to  the  uttermost  through  which  the  eight 
other  inmates  must  pass  is  also  not  a  vestibule. 

R.  Na'hman  in  the  name  of  Rabba  bar  Abahu  quoting 
Rabh  said:  There  were  two  courts  between  which  stood  three 
houses  opening  into  each  other  and  the  two  houses  on  each  side 
of  the  middle  house  opened  into  their  respective  courts.  If  the 
inmates  of  the  courts  desired  to  place  their  Erub  in  the  middle 
house,  they  used  the  houses  opening  into  the  courts  as  thorough- 
fares to  the  middle  house.  Thus  the  house  at  one  court  becomes 
as  a  vestibule  to  the  inmates  of  that  court  and  the  house  at  the 
other  court  becomes  a  vestibule  to  the  inmates  of  the  other 
court,  while  the  house  in  the  centre  being  used  to  deposit  the 
Erub  therein,  it  need  not  be  combined  in  the  Erub  itself.  Con- 
sequently none  of  the  three  need  combine  in  the  Erub  of  the 
courts. 


CHAPTER   VII. 

REGULATIONS  CONCERNING  THE  PREPARATION  OF  ERUBIN  FOR  COURTS 
SEPARATED  BY  APERTURES,  WALLS,  DITCHES,  AND  STKAW -KICKS. 
COMBINATION    OF    ERUBIN    IN    ALLEYS. 

MISHNA:  If  there  be  an  aperture,  four  spans  square,  and 
less  than  ten  spans  high  (from  the  ground),  between  two  courts, 
the  inmates  of  each  court  may  prepare  two  separate  Erubin ;  or 
if  they  prefer  it,  may  combine  in  one  Erub.  If  the  aperture  be 
less  than  four  spans  square  or  over  ten  spans  from  the  ground, 
they  are  each  obliged  to  prepare  a  separate  Erub,  and  must  not 
combine  in  one. 

GEMARA:  Shall  we  say  that  this  anonymous  Mishna  is  in 
accordance  with  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel,  who  holds  that  the 
law  of  "  lavud  "  (attached)  applies  for  a  distance  of  less  than 
four  spans  and  not  for  a  distance  of  less  than  three  spans  as 
maintained  by  the  sages?  Nay;  this  Mishna  maybe  even  in 
accordance  with  the  opinion  of  the  sages,  for  the  question  of 
"  lavud  "  does  not  arise  here.  It  is  merely  a  case  of  an  aper- 
ture which  is  less  than  four  spans  square,  hence  it  is  not  consid- 
ered a  door  and  this  is  admitted  by  the  sages  also,  who  hold 
that  if  an  aperture  is  four  spans  square  or  more,  it  is  considered 
a  door,  but  if  less  than  four  spans  square  it  is  not. 

"  If  the  aperture  be  less  than  four  spans  square,"  etc.  Why 
this  repetition  ?  Is  this  not  self-evident  ?  The  first  clause  of 
the  Mishna  states,  that  if  there  be  an  aperture  four  spans  square 
and  less  than  ten  spans  high  from  the  ground,  the  inmates  of  the 
courts  may  either  prepare  separate  Erubin  or  combine  in  one. 
Hence  if  the  aperture  be  less  than  four  spans  square  and  more 
than  ten  spans  high,  it  is  obvious  that  they  cannot  have  their 
choice  ?  The  Mishna  means  to  teach  us,  that  if  the  aperture 
was  partly  less  than  ten  spans  high  from  the  ground  and  partly 
more  than  ten  spans  high  the  inmates  of  the  court  still  have 
their  choice  of  either  making  separate  Erubin  or  combining  in 
one,  and   only  if  the  entire  aperture   was  over  ten  spans  high 

179 


i8o  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

from  the  ground,   they  are  obliged  to  make    each   a   separate 
Erub. 

This  explanation  of  the  Mishna  has  reference  to  the  follow- 
ing teaching  of  the  Rabbis,  viz. ;  If  the  entire  aperture,  with 
the  exception  of  a  small  part,  was  higher  than  ten  spans  from  the 
ground  i^e.g.,  if  the  aperture  was  twelve  spans  square  and  was 
eight  spans  high  from  the  ground,  thus  two  spans  of  the  aper- 
ture were  within  ten  spans  from  the  ground  and  ten  spans  were 
over  ten  spans  from  the  ground),  or  if  the  entire  aperture  with 
the  exception  of  a  small  part  was  less  than  ten  spans  from  the 
ground  {e.g.,  if  it  was  twelve  spans  square  and  only  two  spans 
were  over  ten  spans  from  the  ground),  the  inmates  of  the  courts 
may  either  each  make  a  separate  Erub  or  combine  in  one.  If 
the  entire  aperture  with  the  exception  of  a  small  part  was  higher 
than  ten  spans  from  the  ground  the  inmates  have  their  choice; 
why  is  it  necessary  to  state,  that  if  the  entire  aperture  with  the 
exception  of  a  small  part  was  within  ten  spans  from  the  ground, 
the  inmates  have  their  choice,  is  this  not  self-evident  ?  After 
having  stated  the  law  in  the  former  case,  it  applies  the  more  to 
the  latter. 

R.  Na'hman  said:  "  The  case  of  where  the  aperture  is  less 
than  four  spans  square  or  over  ten  spans  from  the  ground,  applies 
only  to  courts,  but  as  for  houses,  the  aperture  may  be  at  any 
distance  from  the  ground,  even  over  ten  spans,  and,  nevertheless, 
the  inmates  are  permitted  to  join  in  an  Erub."  Why  so  ? 
Because  a  house  is  considered  solid,  and  every  portion  is  regarded 
as  occupied. 

R.  Abba  asked  of  R.  Na'hman:  "  If  in  the  attic  of  a  house 
there  was  a  hole  fnr  the  purpose  of  fastening  a  ladder  therein, 
may  the  inmate  of  the  attic  join  in  the  Erub  regardless  of 
whether  there  was  a  ladder  fastened  in  the  hole  of  the  attic  or 
not,  i.e.,  should  the  house  be  considered  solid  and  occupied  and 
no  ladder  is  necessary,  or  is  the  house  only  considered  solid  as 
far  as  the  walls  are  concerned  but  not  the  interior,  and  a  ladder 
is  essential  ? "  and  he  answered:  "  A  ladder  is  not  necessary." 
R.  Abba  understood  R.  Na'hman  to  say,  that  a  permanent 
ladder  was  not  necessary,  but  for  the  time  that  the  Erub  was  to 
be  combined  it  was  necessary.  It  was  taught,  however,  by  R. 
Joseph  bar  Minyumi  in  the  name  of  R.  Na'hman  that  neither  a 
permanent  nor  a  temporary  ladder  was  necessary. 

MISHNA:  If  there  be  a  wall  ten  spans  high  and  four  spans 
wide  between  two  courts,  the  inmates  of  each  must  prepare  sep- 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  i8i 

arate  Erubin  and  must  not  join  in  one.  If  fruit  happen  to  lie 
on  the  wall,  they  may  ascend  from  their  respective  sides  and 
partake  thereof,  provided  they  do  not  bring  any  of  it  down 
with  them.  Should  there  be  a  breach  in  the  wall,  not  wider 
than  ten  ells,  they  may  prepare  separate  Erubin  or  if  they 
prefer  it  join  in  one,  because  the  breach  is  considered  as  a 
door.  Should  the  breach,  however,  be  wider  than  ten  ells  they 
must  both  join  in  one  Erub  but  must  not  prepare  two  separate 
Erubin. 

GEMARA:  How  is  it,  if  the  wall  did  not  measure  four 
spans  in  width  ?  Said  Rabh:  "  In  that  case,  the  atmosphere  of 
two  separate  premises  predominates  at  the  wall  and  one  must  not 
handle  anything  even  the  size  of  a  hair  lying  on  the  wall,"  R. 
Johanan,  however,  says  to  the  contrary:  "  In  that  case  the 
inmates  of  both  courts  may  lay  down  fruit  on  the  wall  (or  even 
take  it  down  from  the  wall  because  it  is  regarded  as  ground 
under  no  jurisdiction)."  R.  Johanan  will  therefore  explain  the 
Mishna  thus:  "  If  the  wall  was  four  spans  wide  it  is  permitted 
to  ascend  on  either  side  and  partake  of  fruit  lying  on  the  wall, 
but  it  is  not  permitted  to  bring  up  any.  If,  however,  the  wall 
was  less  than  four  spans  wide,  one  may  carry  fruit  up  on  the 
wall  and  eat  it  there."  This  statement  of  R.  Johanan  is  but  in 
accordance  with  his  own  theory,  as  related  by  R.  Dimi  upon  his 
arrival  from  Palestine  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan,  viz.:  "An 
object  less  than  four  spans  square,  standing  between  public  and 
private  ground,  may  be  used  by  both  the  occupants  of  the  public 
and  private  ground  as  an  aid  on  which  to  shoulder  a  burden  on 
the  Sabbath,  but  they  should  be  careful  not  to  confound  the 
burdens  placed  on  the  object  so  that  a  burden  placed  by  an 
occupant  of  public  ground  be  taken  up  by  an  occupant  of  pri- 
vate ground  and  vice  versa.'' 

Can  Rabh  dispute  this  assertion  of  R.  Dimi  ?  Is  it  not  iden- 
tical with  the  Boraitha  concerning  a  man  standing  on  the  door- 
step and  passing  things  to  a  mendicant  in  the  street  or  to  the 
master  of  a  house  (see  Tract  Sabbath,  p.  8)  ?  Rabh  does  not 
dispute  the  Boraitha  in  that  instance,  because  it  concerns  a  bib- 
lical law,  but  in  this  case  where  rabbinical  law  is  dealt  with,  the 
Rabbis  assume  the  privilege  of  reenforcing  ordinances  so  as  to 
preclude  the  possibility  of  transgression. 

Rabba  bar  R.  Huna  in  the  name  of  R.  Na'hman  said:  If 
between  two  courts  there  was  a  wall,  which  was  ten  spans  high 
from  the  ground  of  one  court,  but  on  a  level  with  the  ground  of 


i82  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

the  other,*  the  wall  is  ceded  to  the  latter  court  and  considered 
part  of  its  ground,  but  to  the  former  court  it  is  an  ordinary  wall 
ten  spans  high.  Why  so  ?  Because  the  use  of  the  wall  is  more 
convenient  for  the  latter  than  for  the  former,  and  where  an 
object  is  more  convenient  for  one  than  for  another  it  is  generally 
ceded  to  the  former. 

Said  R.  Shezbi:  "  R.  Na'hman  rendered  the  same  decision 
concerning  a  ditch  that  was  situated  between  two  courts  and 
was  on  a  level  with  the  ground  on  one  side." 

If  a  man  comes  to  diminish  the  size  of  the  wall  referred  to 
in  the  Mishna  (either  by  heaping  up  earth  at  the  bottom  or  by 
erecting  posts  or  benches  at  its  side;  such  was  the  original  defi- 
nition of  the  manner  by  which  the  size  of  the  M^all  was  dimin- 
ished) and  this  was  done  to  the  extent  of  four  spans,  or  more, 
he  may  make  use  of  the  entire  wall,  but  if  less  than  four  spans 
he  can  use  only  as  much  of  the  wall  as  has  been  diminished. 
What  do  you  mean  to  say  ?  In  either  case  there  is  an  objection. 
If  by  diminishing  the  wall  to  the  extent  of  less  than  four  spans 
the  wall  is  actually  diminished,  why  should  it  not  be  allowed  to 
use  the  entire  wall,  and  if  this  does  not  constitute  a  diminution 
at  all,  why  should  it  be  allowed  to  use  that  part  (where  the  earth 
was  heaped  up  or  the  posts  erected  to  the  extent  of  less  than 
four  spans)  ? 

Said  Rabhina:  In  this  case  the  Mishna  does  not  mean  to  say, 
that  the  wall  was  diminished  by  heaping  up  earth  or  erecting 
posts  but  simply  that  a  part  of  the  wall  was  removed  at  the  top. 
If  the  breach  made  in  this  manner  exceeded  four  spans  it  is 
considered  as  a  door,  and  the  entire  wall  may  be  used,  and  if  it 
was  not  quite  four  spans  the  entire  wall  must  not  be  used,  but 
that  part  of  the  wall  containing  the  breach  may,  because  its 
height  is  lessened. 

R.  Yechiel  said:  "  If  a  basin  was  set  down  (bottom  side  up) 
at  the  bottom  of  the  wall,  the  wall  is  diminished  thereby." 
How  can  a  basin  serve  to  diminish  the  wall  ?  A  basin  may  be 
handled  on  the  Sabbath,  and  is  it  not  a  fact  that  any  vessel  which 
may  be  handled  on  Sabbath  cannot  serve  to  diminish  a  wall 
because  it  can  be  removed  ?  R.  Yechiel  means  to  say,  if  the 
basin   was   fastened   to  the  fjround.    And  if  it  is  fastened  to  the 


*  Rashi  explains  the  term  "  on  a  level  with  the  ground  "  to  signify,  that  it  was 
less  than  ten  spans  higher  than  the  ground,  in  which  case  it  is  considered  as  level 
with  the  ground 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  183 

ground  may  it  not  be  removed  nevertheless  ?  By  the  statement 
"  it  was  fastened  to  the  ground,"  is  meant  if  it  was  fastened  so 
that  a  hoe  or  a  pick-axe  was  required  to  remove  it. 

An  Egyptian  ladder  does  not  diminish  a  wall  but  a  ladder  of 
Tyre  does.  What  is  meant  by  an  Egyptian  ladder  ?  One  that 
has  not  four  rungs.      So  said  the  school  of  R.  Janai. 

Said  R.  A'ha  the  son  of  Rabha  to  R.  Ashi:  "  Dost  thou 
know  why  an  Egyptian  ladder  does  not  diminish  a  wall?"  and 
R.  Ashi  answered:  "  Didst  thou  not  hear  the  statement  of  R. 
A'ha  bar  Ada  in  the  name  of  R.  Hamnuna,  quoting  Rabh,  to 
the  effect  that  it  was  an  article  which  may  be  handled  on  the 
Sabbath  and  any  article  which  may  be  handled  on  the  Sabbath 
cannot  serve  to  diminish  a  wall?"  If  such  be  the  case,  why 
can  a  ladder  of  Tyre  serve  to  diminish  a  wall,  may  it  not  also  be 
handled  on  Sabbath  ?  A  ladder  of  Tyre  can  serve  because  it  is 
so  heavy  that  it  would  require  the  efforts  of  several  men  to 
remove  it. 

Abayi  said:  If  a  wall  ten  spans  high  was  between  two  courts 
and  a  ladder  four  spans  wide  was  placed  at  each  side  of  the  wall: 
if  the  ladders  were  placed  so  that  they  are  three  spans  apart, 
i.e.,  the  ladder  placed  on  the  other  side  was  three  spans  further 
up  or  down  alongside  of  the  wall  than  the  other  ladder,  the  wall 
is  not  diminished ;  but  if  they  are  not  three  spans  apart  the  wall 
is  diminished.  If  the  wall,  however,  was  four  spans  deep  so 
that  a  man  can  walk  on  it,  it  makes  no  difference  how  far  apart 
the  ladders  are. 

R.  Bibhi  bar  Abayi  said:  "  If  one  erected  two  benches  one 
above  the  other  at  the  foot  of  a  wall,  and  the  lower  one  was  four 
spans  wide  while  the  upper  was  less,  the  wall  is  thereby  dimin- 
ished. If  the  lower  bench  however  was  less  than  four  spans 
wide  and  the  upper  four,  or  more,  the  wall  is  also  diminished 
thereby,  providing  the  two  benches  were  less  than  three  spans 
apart."  R.  Na'hman  said  in  the  name  of  Rabba  bar  Abahu, 
that  the  same  rule  applies  to  a  ladder  where  there  is  empty  space 
between  the  rungs  {i.e.,  where  one  side  of  the  ladder  is  not 
closed  with  boards). 

R.  Na'hman  said  again  in  the  name  of  Rabba  bar  Abahu : 
If  a  cornice  four  spans  square  protrude  from  a  wall  and  a 
ladder,  no  matter  how  narrow,  has  been  placed  against  the  cor- 
nice, the  size  of  the  wall  is  thereby  diminished,  provided  the 
ladder  was  placed  directly  against  the  cornice,  but  if  placed 
underneath  the  cornice  against  the  uall,  the  cornice  was  merely 


i34  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

enlarged  but  the  wall  was  not  diminished.  R.  Na'hman  says 
again  in  the  name  of  the  same  authority:  a  wall  which  is  nine- 
teen spans  high  must  have  an  additional  cornice  (a  ladder  which 
should  be  placed  in  the  centre  of  the  wall  so  that  the  space 
should  not  attain  ten  spans  at  the  top  or  at  the  bottom).  If  the 
walls,  however,  measure  twenty  spans  two  cornices  are  needed 
to  make  them  valid.  (One  cornice  a  trifle  less  than  ten  spans 
from  the  ground  and  another  above  that  also  a  trifle  less  than 
ten  spans  from  the  lower.) 

Said  R.  Hisda:  "  Providing  the  cornices  are  not  exactly 
opposite  each  other  (to  prevent  a  ladder  being  placed  on  the 
bottom  cornice)."  R.  Huna  said:  "  If  a  peg  be  placed  on  a  pil- 
lar in  public  ground  ten  spans  high  and  four  spans  wide  (which 
is  legally  private  ground)  the  pillar  is  diminished."  Said  R. 
Adha  bar  Ahaba:  "  Providing  the  peg  is  three  spans  high." 
Abayi  and  Rabba  both  said:  "  Even  if  it  is  not  as  high  as  three 
spans."  Why  so?  Because  the  peg  makes  the  pillar  useless. 
R.  Ashi,  however,  said:  "  Even  if  the  peg  be  three  spans  high 
it  does  not  diminish  the  pillar  and  does  not  make  it  private 
ground  because  a  peg  of  that  kind  can  be  used  as  a  hanger." 

R.  A'ha  the  son  of  Rabha  asked  R.  Ashi,  "  What  is  the  law 
if  several  pegs  be  placed  on  the  pillar  in  question?"  and  he 
answered:  "  Did  you  not  hear  what  R.  Johanan  said  concerning 
a  well,  that  its  enclosures  of  earth  are  counted  in  with  the  ten 
spans  (makes  it  a  legal  private  ground),  why  then  should  they  be 
counted,  are  they  not  useless  ?  "  We  must  assume  that,  because 
one  can  place  an  object  upon  the  enclosures  and  thus  use  them. 
The  same  is  the  case  with  the  peg,  one  might  also  place  some- 
thing upon  it  also. 

R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  "  If  a  wall  be  ten 
spans  high  it  requires,  in  order  to  become  a  valid  wall,  a  ladder 
fourteen  spans  in  height,  because  the  ladder  must  be  placed 
against  the  wall  at  an  angle  and  the  distance  from  the  foot  of 
the  ladder  to  the  wall  being  four  spans,  the  ladder  loses  that 
much  before  it  reaches  the  top  of  the  wall."  R.  Joseph  said: 
"  Even  if  the  ladder  be  a  trifle  over  thirteen  spans  high  it  may 
be  used  (because  should  it  lack  one  span  of  reaching  the  top  of 
the  wall  the  deficiency  is  not  taken  into  consideration)."  Abayi, 
however,  said :  It  matters  not  if  the  ladder  be  even  a  trifle 
over  eleven  spans  high  (because  should  it  lack  three  spans  of 
reaching  the  top  of  the  wall,  it  is  considered  as  being  at  the  top; 
for  the  law  of  "  lavud  "  is  applied  in  all  cases  where  there  is  a 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  185 

deficiency  of  three  spans  or  less).  R.  Huna  the  son  of  R. 
Jehoshua,  however,  said :  The  ladder  may  be  only  a  trifle  over 
seven  spans  in  height  (because  it  is  not  compulsory  to  place  the 
ladder  at  an  angle,  and  if  placed  straight  at  the  wall,  together 
v/ith  the  three  spans  allowed  by  the  law  of  "  lavud,"  it  reaches 
the  top.  Should  the  ladder  even  be  placed  at  an  angle  it  may 
be  considered  as  straight  at  the  wall  and  the  same  rule  applies). 

Rabh  said:  "I  have  a  tradition,  that  a  ladder  standing 
straight  against  a  wall  also  diminishes  its  size,  but  I  know  no 
reason  for  it."  Said  Samuel  to  him:  "  Does  Abba  not  know 
the  reason  for  this  ?  Why  should  a  ladder  be  worse  than  two 
benches  placed  one  above  the  other  ?  Surely  it  is  more  diffi- 
cult to  scale  a  wall  by  means  of  benches  than  by  means  of  a 
ladder." 

Rabha  in  the  name  of  R.  Hyya  said:  "  Trunks  of  Babylo- 
nian fig-trees  when  placed  against  a  wall  need  not  be  fastened, 
because  their  weight  is  so  great,  that  it  is  very  difficult  to  remove 
them,  although  they  may  be  handled  on  Sabbath."  R.  Josepli 
in  the  name  of  R.  Oshiya  said:  "  The  same  applies  to  Babylo- 
nian ladders,  which  are  so  heavy,  that  there  is  no  fear  of  their 
being  removed." 

R.  Joseph  asked  Rabba:  "  If  a  man  had  a  ladder  which  he 
desired  to  place  against  a  wall  and  the  ladder  being  too  narrow, 
i.e.,  less  than  four  spans  wide,  he  hewed  out  in  the  wall  itself, 
steps  on  each  side  of  the  ladder,  how  far  up  should  those  steps 
be  hewn  out?"  Rabba  answered:  "For  a  distance  of  ten 
spans."  Asked  R.  Joseph  again:  "  How  is  it  if  a  man  hews 
out  steps  four  spans  wide  in  the  wall  itself  ?  How  far  up  must 
he  do  this  ? "  and  the  answer  was:  "The  entire  height  of  the 
wall."  "  What  is  the  difference  between  the  case  of  the  ladder 
where  steps  had  to  be  hewn  out  additionally  and  this  case  where 
the  steps  were  all  hewn  out  of  the  wall  ?  "  "In  the  first  instance 
the  ascent  of  the  wall  is  so  much  easier  because  the  ladder  can 
be  placed  against  the  wall  at  an  angle,  while  in  this  instance  the 
ascent  is  much  more  difficult ;  hence  the  steps  should  reach  the 
entire  height  of  the  wall." 

R,  Joseph  asked  Rabba  again  :  "  What  is  the  law  if  a  man 
used  a  tree,  which  grew  right  at  the  wall,  for  a  ladder  ?  I  ask 
thee,  taking  into  consideration  the  difference  of  opinion  between 
Rabbi  and  the  sages.  According  to  Rabbi,  who  holds,  that 
rabbinical  ordinances  were  not  surrounded  with  precautionary 
measures  for  the  sake  of  twilight,  it  may  be  said,  that  in  this 


i86  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

case,  where  the  tree  will  be  used  during  the  whole  Sabbath  day, 
even  Rabbi  might  decide  that  it  would  not  be  allowed  to  make 
use  of  the  tree;  and  on  the  other  hand,  even  according  to  the 
sages,  who  disagree  with  Rabbi  as  regards  the  precautionary- 
measures  for  the  sake  of  twilight,  it  may  be  said,  that  the  tree 
might  be  considered  as  a  door;  which,  however,  cannot  be  used 
because  it  is  regarded  as  if  a  lion  lie  across  it ;  nevertheless,  it  is 
a  door,  and  being  such,  the  wall  may  be  used.  Now,  shouldst 
thou  decide,  that  the  wall  may  be  used  if  a  tree  grow  at  its  side, 
how  would  it  be  if  a  grove  such  as  is  used  in  idolatrous  worship, 
grow  alongside  of  the  wall  ?  I  ask  thee  in  this  instance  taking 
into  consideration  the  difference  of  opinion  between  R.  Jehudah 
and  the  sages.  We  are  aware  that  R.  Jehudah  permits  the 
depositing  of  an  Erub  even  in  a  grave,  notwithstanding  the  fact 
that  no  benefit  must  be  derived  from  a  grave,  but  for  the  reason 
that  after  the  Erub  has  been  deposited  for  the  moment  of  twi- 
light the  grave  is  of  no  further  use  as  the  Erub  need  not  be 
watched.  In  this  case,  however,  R.  Jehudah  might  prohibit  the 
use  of  a  grove,  because  it  serves  a  distinct  purpose,  namely,  that 
of  a  walk  to  the  wall,  and  it  is  a  law  that  no  benefit  must  be 
derived  from  a  grove  used  for  idolatrous  worship.  On  the  other 
hand,  even  according  to  the  sages,  who  prohibit  the  use  of  a 
grave  for  the  depositing  of  an  Erub,  it  might  be  permitted  to 
use  the  grove  because  it  is  virtually  a  door  to  the  wall  and  is 
merely  regarded  as  if  a  lion  were  lying  across  it,  which  tempo- 
rarily makes  it  unfit  for  use." 

Rabba  answered:  "  A  tree  may  be  used  but  a  grove  must 
not."  R.  Hisda  opposed  this:  "On  the  contrary,"  said  he, 
"  the  lion  lying  across  the  tree  which  renders  it  unfit  for  use  tem- 
porarily is  the  rabbinical  ordinance  concerning  the  Sabbath-rest, 
i.e.,  the  tree  must  not  be  used  on  account  of  the  Sabbath,  while 
the  grove  must  not  be  used  for  another  reason  altogether,  hence 
it  should  be  permitted  to  use  the  grove  and  the  use  of  the  tree 
should  be  prohibited." 

It  was  also  taught,  that  when  Rabhin  came  from  Palestine, 
he  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Elazar,  according  to  another  version, 
R.  Abahu  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan :  (This  is  the  rule :) 
Whenever  the  prohibition  is  based  upon  the  Sabbath-rest  laws, 
such  prohibition  must  stand,  but  whenever  the  prohibition  is 
based  in  some  other  law,  it  need  not  hold  good. 

R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak  taught:  "Concerning  a  tree  the 
same  divergence  of  opinion  as  exists  between   Rabbi  and  the 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  187 

sages  remains,  and  concerning  a  grove  the  same  difference  of 
opinion  as  exists  between  R.  Jehudah  and  the  sages  remains." 

MISHNA:  If  two  courts  be  separated  by  a  ditch,  ten  spans 
deep  and  four  wide,  the  inmates  of  each  court  should  prepare 
separate  Erubin  and  must  not  join  in  one,  even  though  the  ditch 
be  filled  with  stubble  or  with  straw.  Should  it  however  be  filled 
with  earth  or  pebbles,  the  inmates  must  join  in  one  Erub  and 
not  prepare  two  separate  ones.  If  a  board  four  spans  wide  had 
been  put  across  the  ditch,  and  likewise,  if  two  projecting  balco- 
nies, one  opposite  the  other,  have  been  connected  by  means 
of  such  a  board,  or  plank,  the  inmates  of  the  courts  may  pre- 
pare separate  Erubin,  or  if  they  prefer  it,  they  may  join  in  one; 
if  the  board,  however,  was  less  (than  four  spans)  wide,  they  must 
each  prepare  a  separate  Erub,  and  not  join  in  one. 

GEMARA:  The  Mishna  states,  that  if  the  ditch  was  filled 
with  stubble  or  straw,  the  inmates  of  each  court  must  make  a 
separate  Erub,  because  the  straw  is  not  considered  firm  enough 
to  afford  a  safe  passage  over  the  ditch,  i.e.,  it  does  not  consti- 
tute a  solid  filling  for  the  ditch,  but  in  the  succeeding  Mishna 
we  learn,  that  if  there  be  between  two  courts  a  straw-rick,  the 
inmates  of  each  court  must  prepare  a  separate  Erub,  thereby 
demonstrating  that  straw  can  form  a  solid  partition  ?  Answered 
Abayi :  As  for  a  partition  all  agree  that  a  straw-rick  can  form  a 
partition,  but  as  for  straw  serving  as  a  filling  for  a  ditch  it 
depends  upon  whether  the  owner  has  devoted  it  entirely  for  that 
purpose.  If  he  did  and  will  not  remove  it,  it  may  constitute  a 
solid  filling  for  the  ditch,  but  if  he  did  not  and  intends  to  subse- 
quently remove  it,  it  cannot  be  considered  such. 

"  Shouldit  however  he  filled  with  earth  or  pebbles.''  Even  if 
the  man  who  did  this,  does  not  declare  that  he  has  devoted  the 
earth  or  the  pebbles  for  that  purpose  entirely  ?  Have  we  not 
learned  in  a  Mishna,  that  if  a  man  filled  a  room  (which  had  con- 
tained a  corpse)  with  straw  or  pebbles  and  declared  that  he  does 
not  intend  to  make  any  further  use  of  either  the  straw  or  the 
pebbles,  the  room  is  regarded  as  filled  up  and  is  not  considered 
a  tent,  but  if  no  such  declaration  was  made,  the  room  is  still  con- 
sidered a  tent.  Thus  we  see,  that  one  must  declare  the  straw 
and  pebbles  to  be  devoted  for  such  purpose  only,  and  our  Mishna 
does  not  state  anything  in  regard  to  this  ?  Said  R.  Assi :  This 
Mishna  treating  of  Erubin  is  in  accordance  with  the  opinion  of 
R.  Jose  in  a  Tosephta  (in  Tract  Oholoth)  who  holds,  that  in  the 
case  of  straw  no  express  declaration  is  necessary. 


i88  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

R.  Huna,  the  son  of  R.  Jehoshua,  however,  said:  Thou 
wouldst  prove  a  contradiction  from  a  law  pertaining  to  unclean- 
ness  to  a  Sabbath-law  ?  Leave  out  the  prohibition  of  Sabbath ; 
for  a  thing  which  must  not  be  handled  on  Sabbath  is  at  all 
events  sacrificed  even  if  it  be  a  purse  of  money;  because  it  must 
not  be  handled  on  Sabbath.  (With  straw  it  is  different,  because 
that  is  food  for  animals,  and  hence  may  be  handled  on  Sab- 
bath.) 

R.  Ashi,  however,  said :  Thou  wouldst  base  a  contradiction 
on  an  ordinance  concerning  a  room  to  that  concerning  a  ditch. 
A  ditch  was  made  to  be  filled  up,  but  is  then  a  room  also  made 
to  be  filled  up  ? 

"  If  a  board  four  spans  wide  had  been  put  across  the  ditch. 
Said  Rabha:  "  When  must  the  board  be  four  spans  wide  ?  If  it 
was  laid  crosswise  across  the  ditch,  but  if  it  was  laid  lengthwise 
across  the  ditch  it  makes  no  difference  how  wide  the  board  is, 
because  the  width  of  the  ditch  was  decreased  to  less  than  four 
spans." 

"  If  two  projecting  balconies,  one  opposite  tJie  other,''  etc. 
Said  Rabha:  The  statement  in  the  Mishna,  "  one  opposite  the 
other,"  might  be  construed  to  signify,  that  if  they  were  not 
directly  opposite  each  other,  no  connection  could  be  made;  such 
is  the  case,  however,  only  if  they  are  three  spans  or  more  distant 
one  from  the  other.  Should  they  be  less  apart  than  three  spans, 
it  matters  not  whether  they  are  directly  opposite,  diagonally  so, 
or  even  one  above  the  other,  a  connection  may  be  made  and  it  is 
simply  considered  a  crooked  balcony,  but  a  balcony  nevertheless. 

MISHNA:  If  there  be  between  two  courts  a  straw-rick,  ten 
spans  high,  the  inmates  of  both  courts  must  prepare  separate 
Erubin,  and  must  not  join  in  one.  Cattle  maybe  fed  from  each 
side  of  the  rick  (and  no  fear  need  be  entertained,  that  it  will 
become  less  than  ten  spans  high).  Should  the  rick  become  less 
than  ten  spans  high,  the  inmates  must  join  in  one  Erub  and  not 
prepare  two. 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Huna:  "  (Cattle  may  be  fed  from  each 
side  of  the  rick),  providing  the  straw  is  not  removed  by  a  man 
and  placed  in  the  crib  of  the  cattle  (because  the  straw  was  desig- 
nated as  a  partition  since  the  preceding  day,  hence  it  must  not 
be  handled)."  Did  we  not  learn  in  a  Boraitha:  "  If  a  house 
which  was  filled  with  straw  stand  between  two  courts,  the 
inmates  of  each  court  must  make  a  separate  Erub,  but  must  not 
join  in  one,  and  may  remove  the  straw  from  the  house  to  their 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  189 

respective  courts  and  place  it  in  the  crib  for  the  cattle  ?  "  Thus 
we  see,  that  it  is  allowed  for  the  inmates  of  each  court  to 
remove  the  straw  to  their  respective  courts  and  place  it  in  the 
crib;  why  does  R.  Huna  prohibit  this?  I  will  tell  thee :  In  a 
house,  on  account  of  the  roof,  it  will  become  noticeable  if  the 
heap  of  straw  becomes  lower  than  ten  spans,  but  a  straw-rick 
standing  in  the  open  air  might  be  overlooked  as  to  its  height. 

(The  above  Boraitha  continues  as  follows:)  "  If  the  heap  of 
straw  contained  in  the  house  became  less  than  ten  spans  high, 
neither  of  the  inmates  of  either  court  are  permitted  to  carry 
unless  the  inmates  of  one  court  resign  their  right  to  the  place  in 
favor  of  the  inmates  of  the  other."  Thus,  if  the  heap  of  straw 
was  ten  spans  high,  it  still  serves  the  purpose  of  a  partition, 
even  though  it  does  not  reach  the  ceiling.  We  may  adduce 
therefrom,  that  any  partition  if  it  be  only  ten  spans  high,  though 
it  should  not  reach  the  celing,  is  valid.  From  the  statement  in 
the  Boraitha,  that  neither  of  the  inmates  of  either  court  are  per- 
mitted to  carry  we  can  also  infer,  that  any  dwellings  which  may 
have  been  added  on  the  Sabbath  are  included  in  the  prohibi- 
tion ?  This  is  not  conclusive  evidence !  It  may  be  that  the 
Boraitha  refers  to  a  case  where  the  heap  of  straw  was  diminished 
to  less  than  ten  spans'  height  before  the  Sabbath  set  in. 

The  Boraitha  continues  further:  "  The  one  wishing  to  make 
use  of  his  court  should  lock  up  the  house  and  resign  his  right  to 
the  ground."  What,  do  both  ?  Lock  the  house  and  resign  his 
right  to  the  ground  ?  Yea;  both  are  necessary,  for  the  man  is 
accustomed  to  use  the  house  on  Sabbath,*  and  he  might  per- 
chance, if  he  leave  it  unlocked,  come  and  use  it. 

Continuing,  the  Boraitha  states:  "If  he  did  so,  he  must  not 
carry,  but  his  neighbor  may."  Is  this  not  self-evident  ?  We 
might  assume  that  the  man's  neighbor  must  also  do  as  he  did, 
hence  we  are  told,  that  the  Tana  holds  repeated  resignation  of 
the  ground  to  be  prohibited. 

MISHNA:  How  are  alleys  (entries)  to  be  combined?  A 
man  places  a  cask  of  wine  (in  the  alley)  and  says:  "  This  shall 
be  for  all  the  inmates  of  the  alley,"  and  he  may  transfer  the 
right  of  possession  (which  he  has  in  the  cask)  to  them  either 
through  his  adult  son  or  daughter,  or  through  his  Hebrew  man- 


*  Rashi  asserts,  that  the  Tana  of  this  Boraitha  maintains,  that  all  those  who 
resign  their  right  to  the  ground  of  their  houses  should  also  lock  them,  but  Tosphath 
does  not  agree  with  Rashi. 


ipo  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

servant  or  maid-servant,  or  through  his  wife;  but  he  cannot 
transfer  his  right  of  possession  through  his  minor  son  or  daughter, 
or  through  his  Canaanitish  bond-man  or  bond-woman,  because 
their  hand  is  virtually  the  same  as  his. 

GEMARA :  Said  R.  Jehudah :  The  person  that  accepts  the 
transfer  of  ownership  should  lift  the  cask  of  wine  at  least  one 
span  from  the  ground  at  the  time  of  acceptance  (saying,  I  have 
accepted  this  for  the  other  inmates).  Said  Rabha:  These  two 
things  were  said  by  the  old  sages  of  Pumbaditha,  namely :  This 
statement  of  R.  Jehudah  just  quoted  and  the  other  one  is: 
When  a  man  pronounces  the  benediction  over  a  goblet  of  wine, 
if  he  tastes  a  whole  mouthful  he  has  acquitted  himself  of  the 
duty  properly,  otherwise  he  does  not. 

An  objection  was  raised :  We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha : 
How  are  alleys  to  be  combined  ?  A  cask  of  wine,  oil,  dates,  or 
figs,  or  any  other  fruit,  is  brought,  and  if  belonging  to  the  one 
who  brought  it,  he  should  transfer  his  right  of  possession  to  the 
other  inmates;  but  if  the  others  have  a  share  in  it  to  commence 
with,  he  need  only  inform  them  (that  he  has  combined  the  Erub 
for  them).  While  transferring  the  right  of  possession,  the  cask 
should  be  lifted  off  the  ground  a  trifle  ?  By  a  trifle  the  Borai- 
tha also  means  a  span. 

It  was  taught :  At  the  combining  of  alleys,  the  right  of  pos- 
session need  not  be  transferred.  So  said  Rabh ;  but  Samuel 
maintains,  that  this  must  be  done.  At  the  combining  of  the 
legal  limits,  however,  Samuel  declares  that  the  right  of  posses- 
sion must  be  transferred,  while  Rabh  holds,  that  it  is  not  neces- 
sary. 

Samuel  may  be  right  in  his  opinion,  because  he  holds  in 
accordance  with  our  Mishna,  which  teaches,  that  at  the  combin- 
ing of  alleys,  the  right  of  ownership  must  be  transferred,  and  at 
the  combining  of  legal  limits  nothing  is  said  about  transfer,  but 
upon  what  does  Rabh  base  his  opinion  ?  There  is  a  difference 
of  opinion  among  Tanaim  concerning  this  ordinance  as  R.  Jehu- 
dah said  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  "  It  happened  that  the  daughter- 
in-law  of  R.  Oshiya  went  to  the  bath-house,  and  not  returning 
before  dusk,  her  mother-in-law  made  an  Erub  for  her.  When 
this  was  told  to  R.  Hyya,  he  declared  it  unlawful.  Said  R. 
Ishmael  bar  R.  Jose  to  him :  Thou  Babylonian  !  So  strict  art 
thou  with  Erubin.  Then  said  my  father:  Whatever  can  be 
made  more  lenient  with  regard  to  Erubin,  should  so  be  made." 

Said  R.  Zera  to  R.  Jacob,  the  son  of  the  daughter  of  Jacob; 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  191 

*'  When  thou  goest  to  Palestine,  go  out  of  thy  way  and  pass 
through  Tyre  and  ask  of  R.  Jacob  bar  Idi  how  the  case  was :  Did 
the  mother-in-law  make  an  Erub  with  her  own  material,  and  on 
account  of  not  transferring  her  ownership  to  her  daughter-in- 
law,  R.  Hyya  held  it  to  be  unlawful,  or  did  she  make  it  with 
material  belonging  to  her  daughter-in-law  and  R.  Hyya  held  it 
to  be  unlawful  because  the  daughter-in-law  was  not  informed  ? " 
R.  Jacob  bar  Idi  answered,  that  it  was  on  account  of  the  owner- 
ship not  having  been  transferred. 

R.  Na'hman  said :  "  We  are  in  possession  of  a  tradition  which 
teaches  us,  that  whether  Erubin  of  legal  limits  or  Erubin  of 
courts  or  combinations  of  entries  are  concerned,  a  transfer  of 
ownership  must  be  effected.  Now  the  question  arises  as  to 
Erubin  of  cooked  articles,*  whether  a  transfer  of  ownership  is 
necessary  or  not."  Said  R.  Jose:  "What  question  is  this? 
Did  R.  Na'hman  not  hear  the  dictum  of  R.  Na'hman  bar  R. 
Ada  in  the  name  of  Samuel,  that  in  the  case  of  Erubin  of 
cooked  articles  a  transfer  of  ownership  must  also  be  effected  ?  " 
Replied  Abayi :  "  Assuredly  he  did  not  hear  this  dictum  or  he 
would  not  have  asked."  Rejoined  R.  Jose:  "  Did  not  Samuel 
say  that  in  the  case  of  Erubin  of  courts  a  transfer  of  ownership 
is  not  necessary  and  still  R.  Na'hman  maintains  that  it  is?" 
Abayi  then  said:  "  How  can  this  be  compared  ?  In  the  case  of 
Erubin  of  courts  and  legal  limits  there  is  a  difference  of  opinion 
between  Rabh  and  Samuel,  while  R.  Na'hman  accepts  the  more 
rigorous  decrees  of  each,  but  in  this  instance  how  could  R. 
Na'hman  override  the  absolute  decree  of  Samuel  alone  ?" 

There  was  a  guard  of  the  arsenal  living  in  the  neighborhood 
of  R.  Zera.  His  neighbors  asked  him  to  rent  them  his  place  for 
the  Sabbath,  but  he  refused.  So  R.  Zera  was  asked  whether 
the  place  may  be  rented  from  the  man's  wife,  who  was  willing 
to  do  so.  He  answered  them:  "  Thus  said  Resh  Lakish  in  the 
name  of  a  great  man,  i.e.,  R.  Hanina:  A  man's  wife  may 
effect  an  Erub  without  the  man's  knowledge  (or  against  his 
will)." 

The  same  case  occurred  in  the  neighborhood  of  R.  Jehudah 

*  Erubin  of  cooked  articles,  called  in  Hebrew  "  Erubin  Thabhshilin."     When  a 

Sabbath  follows  a  festival,  no  food  must  be  cooked  on  the  festival  for  the  Sabbath, 

t  »?  .  .  . 

but  in  order  to  circumvene  this  ordinance  the  Rabbis  decreed  that  two  difTerent  kinds 

of  food  be  set  aside  on  the  eve  of  the  festival  to  serve  for  the  Sabbath  and  thus  enable 

the  people  to  cook,  in  addition  to  the  food  set  aside,  on  the  festival  in  order  to  provide 

for  the  Sabbath. 


192  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

bar  Oshiya,  and  when  asked  concerning  the  law  in  the  matter, 
he  did  not  know.  R.  Mathna  could  not  solve  the  problem  either. 
When  R.  Jehudah,  however,  asked,  he  answered  in  the  name  of 
Samuel  the  dictum  attributed  above  to  R.  Hanina. 

An  objection  was  raised :  We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha  : 
"If  women  made  an  Erub  or  combined  in  an  alley  without  the 
knowledge  of  their  husbands,  the  Erub  and  the  combination  are 
both  unlawful."  This  presents  no  difficulty.  The  Boraitha 
refers  to  a  case,  where  the  husbands  distinctly  forbid  their  wives 
to  do  so,  whereas  Samuel  refers  to  a  case,  where  the  husbands 
did  not  forbid  them.  Such  seems  to  be  the  case,  for  were  it  not 
so  Samuel  would  contradict  himself  as  he  said  elsewhere:  If 
one  of  the  inmates  of  the  alley  who,  as  a  rule,  combined  with 
the  others,  refused  to  do  so  at  one  time,  the  other  inmates  may 
enter  his  house  and  take  his  share  against  his  will.  Thus  we 
see,  that  only  if  the  man,  as  a  rule,  combined  but  (out  of  spite) 
refused  in  one  instance,  then  and  then  only  the  other  inmates 
may  take  his  share  by  force ;  but  if  he  was  not  in  the  habit  of 
combining,  this  would  not  be  allowed.  Hence  this  bears  it 
out. 

Can  we  assume  that  the  following  Boraitha  is  in  support  of 
the  decree  of  Samuel  ?  (It  teaches:)  "  It  is  permitted  to  com- 
pel a  man  to  take  a  share  in  the  erection  of  a  side  and  cross  beam 
to  an  entry,  if  he  refuses  to  do  so  voluntarily."  In  the  case  of 
an  entry  it  is  different,  because  there  were  no  partitions  (hence 
it  was  difficult  to  watch  the  entry).  According  to  another  inter- 
pretation. Where  an  act  is  committed  out  of  spite,  with  the 
intention  to  injure  another,  it  is  different  {i.e.,  a  man  may  be 
compelled  to  desist  as  explained  in  Chapter  IV.,  page  109).* 

*  What  we  have  rendered  above  with  "  Where  an  act  is  committed  out  of  spite, 
etc.,  it  is  different,"  is  expressed  in  the  Hebrew  original  with  but  two  words,  viz.: 
"  Metzad  Sheani,"  literally,  "  from  the  side  it  is  different."  The  marginal  notes  in 
the  original  also  state  that  no  explanation  for  the  two  words  can  be  found,  and  in 
the  monographs  printed  in  Venice  and  Saloniki  some  two  centuries  ago,  this  other 
version  is  omitted  entirely.  In  a  manuscript  of  the  Talmud,  examined  by  R.  N. 
Rabinowicz,  it  is  also  not  to  be  found.  According  to  our  method,  always  to  render 
the  other  version,  because  it  is  invariably  more  reasonable  than  the  first,  we  should 
have  omitted  the  first  here  also,  and  more  especially  so,  as  it  is  very  abstruse.  How- 
ever, the  other  version  is  even  more  so  if  read  as  written.  After  considerable  specula- 
tion, however,  as  to  its  meaning,  we  found  that  it  is  merely  a  misprint,  and  instead 
of  "  Metza^/  Sheani  "  should  read  "  Metzar  Sheani."  The  misprint  is  the  more 
excusable  because  of  the  extreme  similarity  of  a  Hebrew  Daled  T  and  a  Resh  "l. 
Metzar  Sheani  means  "  With  one  who  wishes  to  injure  another,  it  is  different,"  and 
this  was  just  the  case  referred  to  by  Samuel,  who,  according  to  Rashi,  refers  to  one 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  193 

It  was  taught:  R.  Hyya  bar  Ashi  said:  "  A  side-beam  may 
be  made  of  a  grove."  R.  Simeon  ben  Lakish  said:  "  A  cross- 
beam may  be  made  of  a  grove."  One  who  says,  that  a  cross- 
beam may  be  made  of  a  grove  certainly  permits  a  side-beam  also 
to  be  made  of  a  grove;  but  he  who  says,  that  a  side-beam  may 
be  made  thus,  does  not  permit  a  cross-beam.  Why  so  ?  Because 
a  cross-beam  must  be  sound  enough  to  hold  a  brick  one  span 
thick,  and  as  a  grove  (being  used  for  idolatry)  must  be  burned,  it 
is  considered  as  if  it  were  already  burned,  hence  not  sound 
enough  to  hold  a  brick  of  the  prescribed  thickness. 

MISHNA:  If  the  quantity  of  food  (required  for  the  combi- 
nation) become  diminished,  one  may  (himself)  add  thereto  and 
transfer  his  right  of  possession  without  notifying  the  other 
inmates  (to  that  effect).  If,  however,  new  inhabitants  have 
(since)  arrived  in  the  alley,  he  adds  sufficient  to  make  up  the 
required  legal  quantity,  transfers  his  right  of  possession  to  them 
and  notifies  them  to  that  effect.  How  much  is  this  legal  quan- 
tity (of  food  required  for  the  combination  of  alleys)  ?  If  those 
who  join  therein  are  numerous,  it  must  be  sufficient  for  two 
meals  for  all  of  them ;  but  if  they  be  few,  the  size  of  a  dried  fig 
for  each  is  sufficient. 

R.  Jose  said :  "  To  what  does  this  regulation  apply  ?  To  the 
original  (first)  preparation  of  the  Erub;  but  to  extend  the  Erub 
(for  later  use)  any  quantity,  however  small,  is  sufficient.  Nor 
did  the  sages  direct  that  (where  the  combinations  of  an  alley  had 
been  effected)  an  Erub  should  be  prepared  for  the  several  courts 
(contained  in  the  alley)  except  that  the  children  might  not  forget 
about  the  law  of  Erub. 

GEMARA :  What  food  does  the  Mishna  refer  to  as  having 
become  diminished  ?  Shall  we  assume,  that  it  was  but  one  kind 
of  food,  then  even  had  it  been  totally  destroyed,  it  was  not  nec- 
essary to  notify  the  other  inmates;  if  on  the  other  hand  there 
were  two  kinds  of  food,  then,  even,  if  it  became  diminished,  the 
man  was  in  duty  bound  to  notify  the  other  inmates,  as  we  have 
learned  in  a  Boraitha:  "  If  the  food  was  all  of  one  kind  and  was 
totally  destroyed,  one  need  not  notify  the  other  inmates;  but  if 
the  food  was  of  two  different  kinds,  one  must  notify  the  other 
inmates."     (It  was  assumed  that  the  same  law  applied  to  food 


who,  out  of  spite,  would  not  combine,  so  that  the  other  inmates  of  the  alley  would  be 
prevented  from  carrying  on  the  Sabbath  ;  hence,  in  this  instance  no  further  explana- 
tion by  Rashi  was  necessary. 
VOL.    III. — 13 


194  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

that  had  merely  become  diminished,  but  the  Gemara  answered :) 
"  The  Boraitha  refers  to  food  that  had  been  totally  destroyed, 
but  with  food  that  had  become  diminished,  it  is  different. " 

"  Hoiv  viuch  is  this  legal  quantity?''  etc.  What  does  the 
Mishna  mean  to  say  by  "  numerous  "  ?  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the 
name  of  Samuel:  "Eighteen  persons."  Eighteen  and  not 
more  ?  Say,  from  eighteen  on  and  upwards.  Then  why  state 
eighteen  in  the  first  place  ?  Said  R.  Itz'hak  the  son  of  R.  Jehu- 
dah :  My  father  explained  this  to  me  thus :  If  the  food  were 
divided  equally  amongst  all  and  the  share  of  each  for  two  meals 
would  not  amount  to  the  size  of  a  dried  fig,  then  those  who  took 
part  were  "  numerous,"  and  it  is  suflficient  if  the  share  of  each 
did  not  amount  to  the  size  of  a  dried  fig;  but  if  the  share  of 
each  amounted  to  more  than  the  size  of  a  dried  fig,  those  who 
took  part  are  considered  few,  and  even  if  each  received  but  the 
size  of  one  dried  fig,  it  is  sufHcient.  (Thus  both  are  the  more 
lenient  constructions  of  the  law.)  Incidentally  we  are  told  by 
R.  Jehudah  that  eighteen  dried  figs  are  sufificient  for  two  meals. 

MISHNA:  The  Erub  (of  courts)  or  combination  (of  alleys) 
may  be  effected  with  all  kinds  of  nutriment  except  water  and 
salt.  Such  is  the  dictum  of  R.  Eliezer.  R.  Jehoshua,  however, 
said :  Only  a  whole  loaf  of  bread  is  a  lawful  Erub.  Should 
even  a  whole  saah  of  flour  be  baked  into  one  loaf,  and  that  be 
broken,  it  must  not  be  used  for  an  Erub,  while  a  small  loaf  of 
the  value  of  an  Eesar  (a  small  coin  ;  probably  the  Roman  "  as  "), 
if  it  be  whole,  may  be  used  for  an  Erub. 

GEMARA :  Have  we  not  already  learned  the  first  clause  of 
this  Mishna  (in  Chapter  III.,  Mishna  i),  that  the  Erub  or  combi- 
nation may  be  effected  with  all  kinds  of  nutriment  except  water 
and  salt  ?  Said  Rabba  bar  bar  Hana :  This  Mishna  repeats 
the  ordinance  solely  on  account  of  R.  Jehoshua,  who  maintains, 
that  only  a  whole  loaf  is  a  awful  Erub,  but  not  a  broken  loaf. 
Hence  we  are  taught  that  with  all  kinds  of  nutriment  it  may  be 
effected,  including  a  broken  loaf. 

What  reason  has  R.  Jehoshua  for  his  assertion  ?  Said  R. 
Jose  ben  Saul  in  the  name  of  Rabbi:  "  In  order  to  prevent 
enmity  (lest  one  say  he  deposited  a  whole  loaf  and  another  a 
broken  loaf,  etc.)."  Said  R.  A'ha  the  son  of  Rabba  to  R. 
Ashi :  "  How  is  it  if  all  deposited  broken  loaves?"  and  R.  Ashi 
answered:  "There  is  fear  that  the  next  time  the  Erubin  are 
deposited  there  will  be  the  same  strife.  One  will  deposit  a  whole 
loaf  and  another  a  broken  one,  etc." 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  195 

R.  Johanan  ben  Saul  said:  "  If  from  a  whole  loaf  of  bread 
the  legal  first  dough  (ofTering)  has  been  removed  or  from  a  whole 
loaf  of  bread  made  of  Therumaih  and  ordinary  flour  the  legal 
one-hundredth  part  had  been  removed,  the  loaf  is  still  consid- 
ered whole,  and  an  Erub  may  be  efTected  therewith."  Did  we 
not  learn  in  a  Boraitha,  that  the  loaf  remains  whole,  and  may 
be  used  for  an  Erub  if  the  legal  one-hundredth  part  had  been 
removed,  but  if  the  quantity  of  the  legal  first  dough  had  been 
removed  it  does  not  remain  whole  and  must  not  be  used  for  an 
Erub  ?  This  presents  no  difficulty.  R.  Johanan  refers  to  the 
loaf  of  a  baker  who  must  remove  only  a  small  piece  for  the  first 
dough,  while  the  Boraitha  refers  to  a  loaf  of  a  householder  as  we 
have  learned  in  a  Mishna  (Tract  Chalah) :  "The  prescribed 
quantity  for  the  first  dough  is  one  twenty-fourth.  One  who  pre- 
pares the  dough  for  his  own  use  or  for  the  wedding  (feast)  of  his 
son  must  also  give  one  twenty-fourth;  but  a  baker,  or  even  a 
woman  who  prepares  the  dough  for  sale  in  the  market,  need  only 
give  one  forty-eighth  as  the  legal  first  dough." 

R.  Hisda  said:  "  If  a  man  made  a  loaf  whole  again  by  join- 
ing the  broken  pieces  with  a  stick  of  wood,  so  that  it  appeared 
like  an  unbroken  loaf,  he  may  use  it  for  an  Erub." 

Said  R.  Zera  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  "  It  is  permitted  to 
make  an  Erub  with  bread  made  of  rice  or  millet."  Said  Mar 
Uqba:  "  Samuel  the  Master  explained  to  me  that  rice-bread  may 
be  used  for  an  Erub  but  not  millet-bread."  R.  Hyya  bar  Abhin 
in  the  name  of  Rabh  said :  It  is  also  permitted  to  make  an  Erub 
with  lentil-bread. 

MISHNA:  A  man  may  give  money  to  the  wine-seller  or 
baker  in  order  to  acquire  the  right  to  join  in  the  Erub.  Such  is 
the  dictum  of  R.  Eliezer;  but  the  sages  hold,  that  money  can- 
not acquire  the  right  for  a  person  to  join  in  the  Erub.  They 
admit,  however,  that  if  a  man  give  money  to  another  person 
(with  the  commission  to  effect  the  Erub  for  him)  it  will  acquire 
for  him  the  right  to  join  in  the  Erub,  since  no  Erub  can  be 
effected  for  a  man  without  his  knowledge.  Said  R.  Jehudah : 
To  what  do  these  (preceding)  regulations  apply  ?  To  the 
Erubin  of  limits;  in  the  Erubin  of  courts,  however,  a  man  may 
be  included  with  or  without  his  knowledge;  for  advantages  may 
be  conferred  on  a  person,  even  though  he  be  not  present, 
whereas,  he  must  not  be  deprived  of  his  right  in  his  absence. 

GEMARA:  What  reason  has  R.  Eliezer  for  his  dictum  ? 
The  person  giving  the  money  to  the  wine-seller  or  the  baker 


196  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

did  not  draw  his  purchase  toward  him,  hence  no  sale  or  pur- 
chase was  effected." 

Answered  R.  Na'hman  in  the  name  of  Rabba  bar  Abahu : 
"  R.  EHezer  makes  this  case  analogous  with  the  case  mentioned 
in  the  Mishna  (Tract  Cholin,  Chapter  V.,  Mishna  4)  concern- 
ing a  man  who  purchases  one  dinar's  worth  meat  and  the 
butcher  is  compelled  to  slaughter  for  him  an  ox  worth  one  thou- 
sand dinars.  The  question  there  is  propounded  by  the  Gemara: 
How  can  the  sale  be  effective  ?  No  drawing  towards  himself 
was  accomplished  by  the  purchaser  ? '  and  the  answer  was  that 
the  Meshi'kha  (drawing)  was  dispensed  with  for  the  sake  of  the 
advantage  which  was  to  be  conferred  on  the  purchaser  on  the 
four  days  or  periods  enumerated.  In  this  case  of  our  Mishna 
the  Meshi'kha  is  also  dispensed  with  and  for  the  same  reason,  or 
according  to  the  reason  of  another  sage  in  the  mentioned  Tract 
(Cholin)  who  said  that  according  to  biblical  law  a  sale  is  effective 
when  the  money  for  the  purchase  is  paid." 

They  admit,  however,  that  if  a  man  give  money  to  another, ' ' 
etc.  What  is  meant  by  "  another  person  "?  Said  Rabh  :  "A 
householder,"  and  Samuel  agrees  with  him,  meaning,  that  this 
other  person  must  be  a  householder  and  not  a  baker  (or  a  wine- 
seller).  Samuel  added,  that  only  if  the  man  gave  money  to  the 
baker  he  cannot  acquire  the  right  to  join  in  the  Erub,  but 
if  he  gave  him  a  vessel  he  does  acquire  the  right.  Also  if 
when  giving  him  the  money,  he  does  not  say  to  him:  "  With 
this  money  thou  shalt  give  me  bread  sufificient  to  make  an 
Erub,"  but  says:  "For  this  money  thou  shalt  go  and  effect 
an  Erub  for  me,"  then  it  is  as  if  he  merely  commissioned 
him  to  effect  his  Erub  and  he  acquires  the  right  to  join  in  the 
Erub. 

Said  R.  Jehudah  :  To  what  do  these  ordijiances  apply  ?  ' '  etc. 
R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said :  "  The  Halakha  prevails 
according  to  R.  Jehudah,  not  only  in  this  case,  but  in  all 
instances  where  R.  Jehudah  decrees  concerning  Erubin,  the 
Halakha  prevails  in  accordance  with  his  dictum."  Said  R. 
Hana  of  Bagdad  to  him:  "  Does  Samuel  hold,  that  even  in  the 
case  where  R.  Jehudah  declares  an  entry,  from  which  the  side 
and  cross  beams  had  been  removed,  valid,  the  Halakha  prevails 

*  A  sale  or  a  purchase  was  not  binding  or  effective  unless  the  purchaser  at  the 
time  of  the  purchase  drew  the  object  bought  towards  him,  and  this  act  of  drawing 
towards  him  is  called  in  the  Talmud  Meshi'kha,  based  upon  the  passage,  Exod. 
xii.  21. 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  197 

accordingly?"  Answered  R.  Jehudah:  "  Did  I  not  state  par- 
ticularly concerning  Erubin,  but  not  concerning  partitions  ?" 

Said  R.  A'ha  the  son  of  Rabha  to  R.  Ashi :  "If  it  is  said, 
that  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Jehudah,  then  there 
must  be  some  who  disagree  with  him  ?"  Did  not  R.  Jehoshua 
ben  Levi  say,  that  whenever  we  find  in  a  Mishna  the  statement : 
"  Said  R.  Jehudah :  '  When  is  this  the  case? '  or  '  When  do  these 
regulations  apply?'  "  it  is  not  to  be  accepted  as  a  refutation  of 
previous  decrees,  but  merely  as  a  further  explanation  of  the 
drecree  of  the  sages  ?  [How  can  it  be  said,  that  it  is  not  to  be 
accepted  as  a  refutation  ?  Did  w^e  not  learn  in  a  previous 
Mishna,  that  if  additional  inhabitants  came  into  the  alley,  the 
right  of  possession  must  be  transferred  to  them  and  they  miust 
be  notified,  whereas  R.  Jehudah  states,  that  no  notification  is 
necessary  ?  The  previous  Mishna  refers  to  a  court  between  two 
alleys  when  the  inhabitants  newly  arrived  must  be  notified  that 
the  Erub  was  effected  in  one  of  the  alleys  (and  R.  Jehudah 
would  agree  to  this  also).  Did  not  R.  Shezbi  say  in  the  name 
of  R.  Hisda,  that  the  previous  Mishna  distinctly  states,  that  the 
colleagues  of  R.  Jehudah  differ  with  his  dictum  in  this  last 
Mishna  ?]  Answered  R.  Ashi  (the  previous  question  of  R. 
A'ha):  Wouldst  thou  make  a  contradiction  from  one  man  to 
another  ?  Samuel  may  hold  one  thing  and  R.  Jehoshua  ben 
Levi  another. 

Referring  again  to  the  statement  of  R.  Jehoshua  ben  Levi, 
R.  Johanan  said,  that  whenever  R.  Jehudah  says:  "When  is 
this  the  case  ?"  he  means  to  explain  the  previous  teachings,  but 
whenever  he  says,  "When  do  these  regulations  apply?"  he 
means  to  differ  from  the  foregoing  opinions. 


CHAPTER   VIII. 

REGULATIONS  CONCERNING  THE  ERUBIN  OF  LIMITS.  THE  QUANTITY 
OF  FOOD  REQUIRED  FOR  SUCH  ERUBIN,  AND  FURTHER  REGULA- 
TIONS   CONCERNING    ERUBIN    OF    COURTS, 

MISHNA:  How  are  the  (legal)  limits  to  be  combined  ?  A 
man  places  a  cask  (of  wine)  and  says:  "  This  is  for  all  my  towns- 
men or  for  all  who  go  to  the  house  of  mourning,  and  for  all  who 
go  to  the  house  of  feasting."  Whosoever  joins  in  the  combina- 
tion while  it  is  yet  day  (on  the  eve  of  Sabbath)  is  permitted  to 
do  so;  after  dusk,  however,  it  is  prohibited,  because  an  Erub 
must  not  be  deposited  after  dark. 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Joseph:  "  Legal  limits  should  not  be 
combined  except  for  religious  duties."  Is  this  not  expressed  in 
the  Mishna  ?  It  says  for  all  who  go  to  the  house  of  mourning 
or  the  house  of  feasting  ?  R.  Joseph  teaches  that  the  limits 
should  not  be  combined  except  for  religious  duties,  lest  it  might 
be  assumed,  that  the  Mishna  merely  makes  this  a  general  asser- 
tion ;  because  people  are  wont  to  go  to  such  places  on  the  Sab- 
bath. 

The  Mishna  states  "  while  it  is  yet  day."  Shall  we  adduce 
therefrom  that  the  Mishna  holds,  there  is  no  such  thing  as 
the  theory  of  premeditated  choice  ?  For  were  it  said,  that  the 
Mishna  accepts  the  theory,  the  fact  that  the  man  would  make 
use  of  the  legal  limits  on  the  Sabbath  would  demonstrate  that 
he  had  the  intention  to  do  so  on  the  previous  day.  Said  R. 
Ashi :  By  "  while  it  is  yet  day  "  is  meant  if  the  man  was  notified 
of  the  combination  while  it  was  yet  day,  even  though  he  did  not 
agree  to  it  until  after  dusk;  but  if  he  was  not  notified  while  it 
was  yet  day,  he  could  have  no  intention  to  do  so  previously,  and 
hence  he  cannot  join  in  the  combination. 

R.  Assi  said:  "  A  child  that  is  only  six  years  old  may  go  out 
in  the  legal  limits  which  have  been  combined  by  its  mother." 
An  objection  was  made  based  upon  a  Boraitha  stating:  "  A  child 
still  dependent  upon  its  mother  may  go  out  in   the  limits  com- 

198 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  199 

bined  by  its  mother;  but  if  it  is  no  longer  dependent  upon  its 
mother  it  must  not."  Said  R.  Jehoshua  the  son  of  R.  Idi : 
"  R.  Assi  means  to  say  still  more,  that  even  if  the  father  had 
combined  him  in  his  Erub  towards  the  north  and  his  mother  com- 
bined an  Erub  for  herself  towards  the  south,  a  child  even  six 
years  old  prefers  to  go  with  its  mother." 

Another  objection  was  made :  We  have  learned  in  another 
Boraitha :  A  child  which  is  dependent  upon  its  mother  may  go 
out  with  her  in  the  limits  which  she  has  combined  until  it  reaches 
the  age  of  six  years.  (Hence  when  it  is  six  years  old  it  must 
not  ?)     R.  Assi  might  say  that  until  six  years  includes  six  years. 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  A  man  should  not  combine 
an  Erub  for  his  adult  son  or  daughter  or  for  his  Hebrew  man  or 
maid  servant,  or  for  his  w^ife,  unless  he  notifies  them  to  that 
effect.  He  may  however  combine  an  Erub  for  his  Canaanitish 
bond-man  or  bond-woman  or  for  his  minor  son  or  daughter  even 
without  their  consent  because  their  hand  is  virtually  the  same  as 
his.  If,  however,  all  those  mentioned  in  the  Boraitha  have  com- 
bined an  Erub  for  themselves  in  one  direction,  and  the  master 
combined  an  Erub  for  them  in  another,  they  must  all  make  use 
of  the  one  which  the  master  combined,  excepting  only  his  wife, 
because  she  can  object. 

Why  should  the  wife  only  be  excepted  ?  Cannot  the  other 
persons  mentioned  in  the  first  clause  of  the  Mishna  also  object  ? 
Said  Rabba:  "  The  wife  and  those  equal  to  her  (mentioned  with 
her)  are  meant  to  be  excepted,  and  by  'all  those  mentioned  in 
the  Boraitha  '  is  meant  the  persons  enumerated  in  the  latter 
clause  of  the  Boraitha." 

The  master  said:  "Excepting  only  his  wife,  because  she 
can  object."  Shall  we  say,  that  only  if  sh».  objects  she  may  use 
her  own  limits,  but  if  she  does  not,  she  may  go  out  in  the  limits 
combined  by  her  husband  ?  Does  not  the  Boraitha  mean  to 
state  that  he  must  notify  them  and  obtain  their  consent  ?  (Then 
why  must  she  object  if  she  previously  did  not  give  her  consent  ?) 
Nay;  the  Boraitha  means  to  state  that  he  must  merely  notify 
them,  and  if  they  make  no  answer  it  is  the  same  as  if  they 
agreed  to  it. 

The  Boraitha  states  again,  however,  that  if  they  made  an 
Erub  for  themselves  and  the  master  made  another  one  for  them 
they  must  utilize  that  of  the  master;  this  must  have  been  the 
case  where  they  did  not  object  when  notified  that  the  master 
would  combine  the  Erub  for  them.     "  Excepting  only  the  wife 


200  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

who  can  object  ?  "  How  is  this  consistent  ?  Said  Rabha:  "  Is 
the  fact  of  their  making  a  separate  Erub  not  sufBcient  objec- 
tion ? " 

MISHNA:  How  much  is  the  legal  quantity  (of  food  required 
to  effect  the  combination  of  limits)  ?  Sufificient  food  for  two 
meals  for  everyone  who  joins  therein ;  for  work-day  meals  but 
not  for  Sabbath-meals.  Such  is  the  dictum  of  R.  Meir;  but  R. 
Jehudah  said:  For  Sabbath-meals,  but  not  for  work-day  meals. 
Both  (sages),  however,  intend  to  render  the  observance  of  this 
regulation  more  lenient.  R.  Johanan  ben  Berokah  said :  It  is 
sufificient  to  effect  the  combination  if  the  loaf  used  therefor  be 
worth  a  Pundian,  when  the  price  of  flour  is  one  selah  for  four 
saah.  R.  Simeon  said :  Two-thirds  of  a  loaf  (is  sufilicient),  such 
as  go  three  to  one  kahb  of  flour.  (The  time  it  takes  to  eat)  half 
(of  such  a  loaf,  is  the  prescribed  time  for  remaining)  in  the  house 
of  a  leper,*  and  the  half  of  a  half  of  such  a  loaf  (which  were  it 
it  unclean)  would  make  the  body  unclean. f 

GEMARA:  How  much  food  constitutes  food  for  two  mea4s  ? 
Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  "  Two  loaves  as  used 
by  the  peasants  in  the  field."  R.  Ada  bar  Ahabha  said :  "  Two 
loaves  as  baked  by  the  inhabitants  of  N'har  Pepitha  (Papa)." 

R.  Joseph  said  to  R.  Joseph  the  son  of  Rabha:  "  In  accord- 
ance with  whose  opinion  does  thy  father  hold  concerning  the  two 
meals.  Doubtless  with  that  of  R.  Meir  ?  I  also  hold  with  R. 
Meir;  for  if  the  opinion  of  R.  Jehudah  were  accepted,  why  do 
people  say,  that  the  stomach  always  has  room  for  sweet  things  ? ' ' 

"  R.  Johanan  ben  Berokah  said,''  etc.  We  have  learned  in  a 
Boraitha,  that  there  is  not  much  difference  between  the  quantity 
prescribed  by  R.  Johanan  and  that  prescribed  by  R.  Simeon. 
How  can  this  be  said  ?  According  to  R.  Johanan  one  kabh  will 
provide  four  meals,  and  according  to  R.  Simeon  one  kabh  will 
produce  nine  meals  ?  Said  R.  Hisda:  "  Deduct  one-third  as  the 
profit  of  the  dealer."  Then  according  to  R.  Johanan  one  kabh 
will  provide  six  meals  and  according  to  R.  Simeon  nine.  Say  in 
accordance  with  the  dictum  of  R.  Hisda  at  another  time,  that 
one  half  should  be  deducted  as  the  profit  of  the  dealer.     Then 


*  One  who  remains  in  the  house  of  a  leper  the  length  of  time  required  to  eat  half 
of  such  a  loaf,  renders  his  clothes  unclean  and  must  wash  them  (as  explained  in  Tract 
Negayim). 

f  One  who  eats  a  fourth  of  such  a  loaf  which  has  become  unclean,  renders  him- 
self unclean  and  cannot  partake  of  any  consecrated  thing  until  he  has  bathed  (as  will 
be  explained  in  Tract  Oholeth). 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  201 

according  to  one  a  kabh  contains  sufficient  for  eight  meals  and 
according  to  the  other,  nine.*  Hence  we  have  already  heard 
that  there  was  not  much  difference  between  R.  Simeon  and  R. 
Johanan. 

Now  there  is  a  contradiction  in  two  of  R.  Hisda's  state- 
ments ?  This  presents  no  difficulty.  One  of  his  statements 
referred  to  a  case  where  the  wood  for  the  baking  was  furnished 
while  the  other  refers  to  a  case  where  the  purchaser  had  to  fur- 
nish it  himself. 

The  Rabbis  taught:  It  is  written  [Numbers  xv.  20]:  "As 
the  fruit  of  your  doughs  shall  ye  set  aside  a  cake  for  a  heave- 
offering,"  which  signifies,  that  the  first  of  the  doughs  that  were 
prepared  at  that  time  should  be  set  aside.  How  much  was 
the  dough  prepared  in  the  desert  ?  It  is  written  [Exodus  xvi. 
36]:  "  But  the  omer  is  a  tenth  of  an  ephah."  They  usually 
prepared  an  omer  for  each  person  (and  an  ephah  is  three  saahs), 
whence  they  adduced  that  three  saahs  being  equal  to  seventy- 
two  lugs,  an  omer  is  equal  to  seven  and  one-fifth  lugs,  and  when 
dough  measures  that  quantity  it  is  subject  to  the  first  dough  offer- 
ing. These  seven  and  one-fifth  lugs,  according  to  Babylonian 
measure,  are  only  six  lugs  in  Jerusalem,  and  five  in  Sepphoris. 
From  this  it  was  also  adduced  that  one  who  eats  that  much  in 
a  day  is  healthy  and  blessed.  One  who  eats  more  than  this  is  a 
glutton  and  one  who  eats  less  than  that  has  a  weak  stomach. 

MISHNA:  If  the  inhabitants  of  a  court  and  the  inhabi- 
tants of  a  balcony  should  have  forgotten  to  combine  an  Erub, 
whatever  is  above  ten  spans  from  the  ground  is  considered  as 
belonging  to  the  balcony,  and  whatever  is  less  than  ten  spans 
high  from  the  ground  is  considered  as  belonging  to  the  court. 
If  the  earth  dug  out  of  a  ditch,  or  a  stone,  be  ten  spans  high, 
they  belong  to  the  balcony;  but  if  less  than  ten  spans  high  they 
belong  to  the  court.  When  is  this  the  case  ?  If  the  earth  (heap) 
or  the  stone  be  close  to  the  balcony,  but  if  some  distance  away 
from  the  balcony,  even  though  they  be  ten  spans  high,  they 
belong  to  the  court.  What  is  considered  close  ?  Whatever  is 
less  than  four  spans  distance. 


*  In  order  to  explain  this  problem  mathematically  it  must  be  borne  in  mind  that 
a  Kabh  is  equal  to  2  Saah  and  a  Pundian  is  equal  to  \  Selah.  Hence  if  \  be 
allowed  the  dealer  for  baking  the  loaf,  according  to  R.  Johanan  the  loaf  will  be  equal 
to  I  of  a  Kabh  minus  \  oi  \  ox  in  other  words  ^  of  a  Kabh,  while,  according  to  R. 
Simeon,  a  loaf  is  |  of  ^  of  a  Kabh  or  \.  If  |  of  a  Kabh  constitute  sufficient  for  2 
meals,  then  i  Kabh  provides  9  meals,  and  according  to  R.  Johanan  6. 


202  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

GEMARA:  If  the  object  standing  between  the  court  and 
the  balcony  is  easily  accessible  to  both  the  same  as  a  door,  it  is 
considered  as  if  it  were  an  aperture  between  two  courts.  If  it 
is  not  easily  accessible  but  both  the  inmates  of  the  courts  and  of 
the  balcony  can  throw  things  on  it  with  equal  facility  it  is  equal 
to  a  wall  between  two  courts.  If  both  the  inmates  of  the  court 
and  the  balcony  can  with  equal  ease  deposit  things  upon  that 
object  it  is  considered  as  a  ditch  between  two  courts;  but  if  the 
object  be  easily  accessible  to  one  but  was  not  as  easily  reached 
by  the  other,  it  is  the  same  as  the  ditch  mentioned  by  R. 
Shezbi  in  the  name  of  R.  Na'hman,  which  was  level  with  the 
ground  of  one  court.  If  the  object  was  easily  accessible  to  one 
but  could  only  be  reached  by  throwing  by  the  other,  it  is  the 
same  as  the  wall  mentioned  by  Rabba  bar  R.  Huna  in  the  name 
of  R.  Na'hman,  which  was  level  with  the  ground  of  one  court. 
The  question,  however,  is  concerning  an  object  which  by  the 
inmates  of  the  court  could  only  be  reached  by  throwing  and  by 
the  inmates  of  the  balcony  could  only  be  reached  by  letting 
down  an  article  upon  it.  Rabh  said:  "  It  must  not  be  used  by 
either"  ;  but  Samuel  said:  "  It  is  given  to  those  who  can  reach 
it  by  letting  down  something  upon  it  because  that  is  the  easier 
way  of  reaching  it ;  and  it  is  a  rule  that  whoever  can  reach  an 
object  the  more  easily  is  entitled  to  it." 

An  objection  was  made:  Come  and  hear:  If  the  inhabitants 
of  a  court  and  the  inhabitants  of  an  attic  had  forgotten  to  com- 
bine in  an  Erub,  the  inhabitants  of  the  court  may  utilize  the 
lower  ten  spans  and  the  inhabitants  of  the  attic  may  use  the 
upper  ten  spans.  How  so  ?  If  a  cornice  project  from  the  wall 
at  a  distance  of  less  than  ten  spans  from  the  ground  it  may  be 
used  by  the  inhabitants  of  the  court,  but  if  it  project  at  a  dis- 
tance of  less  than  ten  spans  below  the  attic,  it  may  be  used  by 
the  inmates  of  the  attic.  If,  however,  the  cornice  was  just 
between  the  ten  spans  above  the  ground  and  the  ten  spans  below 
the  attic  it  appears  that  neither  can  make  use  of  it,  and  this 
would  be  in  accordance  with  the  opinion  of  Rabh  and  an  objec- 
tion to  Samuel.  Said  R.  Na'hman:  "  The  case  treated  of  by 
the  above  Boraitha  is  where  the  entire  wall  was  only  nineteen 
spans  high  and  if  the  cornice  was  less  than  ten  spans  high  from 
the  ground  it  was  easily  accessible  to  the  court-inhabitants  the 
same  as  a  door  would  be,  but  not  so  easily  reached  by  the  inhab- 
itants of  the  attic  (hence  the  court  is  entitled  to  it).  If  the  cor- 
nice was  above  ten  spans  from  the  ground  it  was  easily  accessible 


TRACT    ERUBIN. 


203 


to  the  inmates  of  the  attic  but  not  so  to  the  court-inhabitants, 
who  would  have  to  throw  in  order  to  reach  it  (hence  the  attic  is 
entitled  to  it)." 

R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said:  "  If  between  two 
courts  there  was  a  small  alley,  into  which  the  doors  of  the  courts 
did  not  open,  but  which  contained  a  well  four  spans  distant  from 
the  wall  of  each  court,  the  inhabitants  of  each  court  may  put  up 
a  projecting  board  no  matter  how  small  on  top  of  the  wall,  and 
draw  water  from  the  well  through  their  windows.  (In  reality 
this  was  unnecessary,  because  the  alley  was  not  used  as  a  thor- 
oughfare, but  as  the  two  courts  had  not  joined  in  an  Erub  and 
used  the  well  in  common  the  boards  were  erected  as  a  sign)." 
R.  Jehudah  himself  continued:  "  A  projecting  board  is  not  nec- 
essary, for  even  any  small  stick  is  sufificient." 

Said  Abayi  to  R.  Joseph:  "  The  statement  of  R.  Jehudah 
on  his  own  account  was  also  made  in  conformity  with  the  opin- 
ion of  Samuel,  for  according  to  Rabh,  where  a  place  is  not  used 
as  a  thoroughfare  it  cannot  prove  an  impediment  to  the  adjoin- 
ing grounds." 

Said  R.  Na'hman  in  the  name  of  Rabba  bar  Abahu,  quot- 
ing Rabh :  If  there  were  three  ruins  between  two  houses,  each 
house  may  use  the  adjoining  ruin  by  throwing  therein,  but  the 
middle  ruin  must  not  be  used  by  either  of  the  two  houses. 

R.  Brona  was  sitting  and  proclaiming  this  Halakha.  Said  R. 
Eliezer,  one  of  the  schoolmen,  to  him:  "  Did  Rabh  indeed  say 
this?"  and  he  answered:  "Yea;  he  did."  So  R.  Eliezer 
requested  that  he  be  shown  where  Rabh  resided.  This  was  done, 
and  coming  before  Rabh  he  inquired:  "  Did  Master  indeed  say 
this?"  and  he  answered,  "Yea."  Said  R.  Eliezer:  "Did 
Master  not  say,  that  if  an  object  is  not  easily  accessible  to  both, 
it  must  not  be  used  by  either?"  Answered 
Rabh:  "Dost  thou  then  think,  that  I  had 
reference  to  three  ruins,  that  stood  one  after 
the  other  between  two  houses  ?  I  was  speak- 
ing of  ruins  that  stood  two  on  one  side  and 
one  of  the  size  of  both  on  the  other  (as  shown 
in  accompanying  illustration).  Now  as  re- 
gards the  ruins  into  which  the  windows  open, 
from  the  fact  that  access  is  gained  by  means 
of  windows,  or  in  other  words  through  the 
atmosphere,  they  are  permitted  to  be  used  in  accordance  with  the 
opinion  previously  rendered  that  a  place  where  there  is  no  thor- 


W«"^ 

/N//M 

ffOM 

L_        

/tt/W 

•       '^-"        1 

1                      ^                      1 

204  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

oughfare  does  not  prove  an  impediment  to  adjoining  ground. 
Even  in  this  case,  where  the  ruins  being  naturally  broken  it 
might  be  said  that  the  atmosphere  of  one  mingling  with  the 
other  renders  both  unlawful  for  use,  I  have  already  decided, 
that  atmosphere  cannot  produce  such  a  condition.  As  for  the 
other  ruin,  whfch  both  can  reach  by  means  of  the  small  opening 
at  the  bottom  it  is  not  as  if  they  were  reached  through  the  atmos- 
phere but  by  actual  contact.  Hence  the  ruin  being  directly 
between  the  two  houses  cannot  be  used  unless  an  Erub  had  been 
combined." 

MISHNA:  If  a  man  deposit  his  Erub  (for  the  combination 
of  courts)  in  a  vestibule,  gallery,  or  balcony,  it  is  not  a  lawful 
Erub.  Should  a  man  reside  in  any  such  place,  who  has  not 
joined  in  the  Erub,  he  cannot  prevent  the  other  inmates  of  the 
court  (from  carrying  therein).  If  a  man  deposit  his  Erub  in  a 
hay-loft,  or  in  a  stable,  or  in  a  woodshed,  or  in  a  granary,  it  is  a 
legal  Erub,  and  one  who  dwells  there  (if  he  had  not  joined  in  the 
Erub)  impedes  the  other  inmates  of  the  court.  R.  Jehudah 
said:  If  the  householder  has  reserved  the  right  of  access  thereto 
(to  such  a  loft,  stable,  shed,  or  granary),  he  who  dwells  there 
does  not  impede  the  other  inmates  of  the  court. 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Jehudah  the  son  of  R.  Samuel  bar 
Silas  "  :  In  all  cases  where  the  sages  decree  that  if  a  man  reside 
in  a  certain  place  (and  had  forgotten  to  join  in  the  Erub)  he 
does  not  impede  the  others,  an  Erub  which  he  might  deposit  in 
such  a  place  is  not  legal,  excepting  only  in  the  case  of  a  vesti- 
bule belonging  to  an  individual,  and  in  all  cases  where  the  sages 
decree  that  an  Erub  must  not  be  deposited  in  a  certain  place,  it 
is  permitted  to  effect  the  combination  of  alleys  in  such  a  place, 
excepting  only  the  atmosphere  of  an  entry  (that  is,  in  the  air 
above  the  ground  of  the  entry). 

R.  Jehudah  again  said  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  "  If  a  com- 
pany was  seated  at  table  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath  and  the  Sabbath 
set  in,  the  bread  lying  on  the  table  may  be  depended  upon  to 
serve  as  an  Erub  and  according  to  another  version  it  may  serve 
as  the  combination  of  the  alley."  Said  Rabba:  "  They  do  not 
differ.  Those  who  say  that  the  bread  serves  for  an  Erub  (of  the 
court)  refer  to  a  case  where  the  table  was  situated  in  the  house, 


*  At  times  the  name  Silas  is  also  called  Shila  in  the  Talmud,  and  while  the  same 
person  is  meant,  still  we  render  it  according  to  the  manner  in  which  it  appears  in  the 
original. 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  205 

and  those  who  say  that  it  may  serve  as  a  combination  of  alleys 
refer  to  a  case  where  the  table  was  in  the  court."  Said  Abayi 
to  him:  "  I  know  of  a  Boraitha,  w^hich  will  bear  out  thy  opin- 
ion, viz.  :  '  Erubin  of  courts  must  be  made  in  the  courts,  com- 
binations of  alleys  must  be  effected  in  the  alleys.'  After  delib- 
erating upon  this  Boraitha  we  decided  that  it  could  not  be  so, 
for  we  have  learned  in  our  Mishna  that  if  a  man  deposit  his 
Erub  (of  courts)  in  a  vestibule,  gallery,  or  balcony,  it  is  not  a 
lawful  Erub,  and  the  conclusion  was  that  the  statement  of  the 
Boraitha  to  the  effect  that  the  Erubin  must  be  made  in  the  courts 
in  reality  means,  that  they  should  be  made  in  the  houses  con- 
tained in  the  courts,  and  the  combination  of  alley  should  be 
made  not  in  the  alleys  proper  but  in  the  courts  opening  into  the 
alleys. 

' '  R.  Jehudah  said :  If  the  householder  has  reserved  the  right 
of  access,''  etc.  What  is  meant  by  the  right  of  access  ?  The 
privilege  as  held  by  Bunayis  ben  Bunayis  (according  to  the  Aruch 
Ben  Nanas),  who  was  a  very  wealthy  man  and  would  loan  his 
houses  for  the  use  of  the  other  inhabitants,  but  would  reserve 
the  right  to  store  his  utensils  in  such  houses.  At  one  time  he 
came  before  Rabbi;  said  Rabbi:  "  Make  room  for  a  man  who 
has  a  hundred  golden  minas."  *  Later  another  man  came  along 
and  (thinking  that  he  was  the  wealthier)  Rabbi  said:  "  Make 
room  for  a  man  who  has  two  hundred  golden  minas."  Said  R. 
Ishmael  the  son  of  R.  Jose  to  Rabbi :  "  Rabbi,  the  father  of  this 
(first)  man  (Bunayis)  hath  a  thousand  ships  in  the  sea  and  a  thou- 
sand cities  on  land."  Said  Rabbi  to  him  :  "  When  thou  shouldst 
see  his  father,  tell  him,  not  to  send  his  son  to  Rabbi  dressed  so 
poorly,  because  it  is  Rabbi's  wont  to  honor  rich  men." 

R.  Aqiba  would  also  honor  rich  men,  as  Rabha  bar  Mari 
preached :  "It  is  written  [Psalms  Ixi.  8]  :  '  May  he  abide  forever 
before  God:  ordain  that  kindness  and  truth  may  guard  him,' 
which  signifies :  When  can  he  abide  forever  before  God  ?  If  rich 
men  guard  him  with  kindness  and  truth  so  that  he  know  not 
want." 

Rabba  bar  bar  Hana  said:  "  What  is  meant  by  the  right  of 
access  ?  If  a  man  have  in  the  house  (any  utensil)  even  a  plough- 
share." Said  R.  Na'hman:  "  The  disciples  of  Samuel  said  on 
the  contrary:  Only  an  utensil  which  may  not  be  handled  on  the 
Sabbath  gives  a  man  the  right  of  access  to  a  house,  but  an  uten- 

*  A  mina  was  at  one  time  of  the  value  of  100  Zuz,  but  later  its  value  was  increased 
to  60  Shekel  or  Sela,  which  is  equal  to  240  Zuz. 


2o6  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

sil  which  may  be  handled  on  Sabbath  does  not,  because  he  might 
come  and  remove  it."     The  same  was  also  taught  in  a  Boraitha. 

MISHNA:  If  a  man  leave  his  house  and  goes  to  take  his 
Sabbath-rest  in  another  town  (without  previously  joining  in  the 
Erub),  be  he  a  Gentile  or  an  Israelite,  he  thereby  prevents  the 
other  inmates  of  his  court  from  carrying  within  it.  Such  is  the 
dictum  of  R.  Meir.  R.  Jehudah  saith:  "  He  does  not  prevent 
the  .others."  R.  Jose  saith:  "A  Gentile  prevents  the  others, 
but  an  Israelite  does  not,  as  it  is  not  usual  for  an  Israelite  to 
return  on  the  day  of  rest."  R.  Simeon  saith:  Even  if  the  man 
left  his  house  and  had  gone  to  take  his  Sabbath-rest  with  his 
daughter,  in  the  same  town,  he  does  not  prevent  the  other 
inmates,  since  he  has  in  thought  renounced  his  abode  for  the 
time  being. 

GEMARA :  Said  Rabh :  The  Halakha  prevails  according 
to  R.  Simeon,  but  only  if  the  man  went  to  take  his  Sabbath-rest 
with  his  daughter ;  if,  however,  he  went  to  take  his  Sabbath- 
rest  with  his  son  he  does  not  renounce  his  own  abode  for  the 
time  being;  for  people  say:  "If  thou  hearest  a  dog  bark  in  a 
house  thou  canst  enter  without  fear;  but  if  thou  shouldst  hear 
little  pups  squeal  and  their  mother  bark  at  thee,  do  not  enter  " 
(meaning  that  a  father  is  not  apt  to  quarrel  with  his  daughter 
and  return  to  his  abode,  but  he  may  do  so  with  his  daughter-in- 
law  and  be  compelled  to  return  to  his  own  home). 

MISHNA:  If  there  be  a  well  between  two  courts  it  is  not 
lawful  to  draw  water  therefrom  (on  Sabbath),  unless  a  partition 
be  made  ten  hands  high  either  below  (within  the  water)  or  at 
the  edge  of  the  well.  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel  said:  "Beth 
Shammai  hold,  that  the  partition  must  be  made  below;  but 
Beth  Hillel  maintain  that  it  must  be  made  above."  Said  R. 
Jehudah  :  The  partition  is  not  more  effective  than  the  wall  which 
is  between  the  two  courts. 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Huna:  "  By  saying  that  the  partition 
must  be  made  below,  Beth  Shammai  mean,  that  it  should  be 
within  the  well  but  not  so  as  to  touch  the  water,  and  Beth  Hillel 
by  maintaining  that  it  should  be  made  above,  mean,  that  it 
should  be  erected  over  the  well.  Both  agree,  however,  that  the 
partition  must  not  be  outside  of  the  well  proper,  but  within  its 
enclosures."  Beth  Hillel's  reason  for  the  decree  is  that  wherever 
water  is  concerned  the  ordinances  are  to  be  construed  in  as 
lenient  a  manner  as  possible,  as  we  have  learned  from  R.  Tabla's 
question  and  Rabh's  answer  (see  page  24). 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  207 

"  Said  R.  JeJmdah :  The  partition  is  no  more  effective,''  etc. 
Said  Rabba:  R.  Jehudah  and  R.  Hananiah  ben  Aqabia  said 
virtually  the  same  thing.  R.  Jehudah  said  what  we  have  learned 
in  the  Mishna  and  R.  Hananiah  ben  Aqabia  as  we  have  learned 
in  the  Boraitha,  viz.  :  "  In  a  balcony  four  ells  square  a  hole  four 
spans  square  may  be  cut  out  and  water  may  be  drawn  through 
that  hole  (and  although  there  were  no  partitions  surrounding  the 
balcony,  it  is  considered  as  if  it  reached  the  ground  by  the  appli- 
cation of  the  law  of  Gud  Achith  *).  So  said  R.  Hananiah  ben 
Aqabia."  (This  is  virtually  the  same  as  the  opinion  of  R.  Jehu- 
dah in  our  Mishna.)  Said  Abayi  to  Rabba:  "  Perhaps  this  is 
not  so !  R.  Jehudah,  who  says,  that  no  separate  partition  is  nec- 
essary, does  so  because  he  holds,  that  the  wall  between  the  two 
courts  suffices  as  a  partition  for  the  well  also;  consequently  he 
considers  the  wall  as  reaching  down  as  far  as  the  well ;  but,  in 
the  case  of  the  balcony,  where  there  is  no  partition  at  all  to 
commence  with,  the  balcony  must  first  be  inclined  into  a  stand- 
ing position  and  then  be  considered  as  reaching  down  as  far  as 
the  well.  Now  while  R.  Jehudah  may  hold  that  the  w^all  may 
be  considered  as  if  it  reached  down  to  the  well,  it  does  not  fol- 
low that  he  also  permits  of  a  previous  imaginary  inclination  of 
the  balcony  in  addition  to  the  supposition  that  it  reaches  down 
to  the  well  and  thus  forms  a  valid  partition.  On  the  other  hand, 
R.  Hananiah  ben  Aqabia,  who  permits  of  both  the  imaginary 
inclination  of  the  balcony  and  the  supposition  that  it  reaches 
down  as  far  as  the  water,  may  have  applied  this  only  to  a  bal- 
cony which  was  erected  above  the  sea  of  Tiberias,  which  is  sur- 
rounded by  cities,  banks,  and  woodsheds,  but  in  the  case  of  a 
balcony  erected  above  any  other  waters  he  might  not  have  per- 
mitted even  as  much  as  R.  Jehudah." 

Said  R.  Huna  the  son  of  R.  Jehoshua:  If  the  well  stood  in 
a  corner  between  two  courts,  the  partition  to  be  erected  on  the 
other  side  of  the  well  (which  is  not  between  the  two  walls) 
should  be  ten  spans  high  and  a  span  and  a  trifle  wide  on  each 
side  (and  when  applying  the  law  of  Lavud  to  the  partition  on 
both  sides  a  partition  will  be  effected  on  every  side  of  the  well, 
providing  the  well  was  only  four  spans  square). 

MISHNA:  If  a  canal  runs  through  a  court,  it  is  not  lawful 
to  draw  water  therefrom  (on  Sabbath),  unless  there  be  a  parti- 
tion  ten   spans  high  where  the  canal   flows   into  the  court  and 

*  For  explanation  of  Cud,  see  note  to  pag-e  7. 


2o8  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

another  where  it  flows  out  again.  R.  Jehudah  said:  "  The  wall 
above  is  to  be  considered  a  partition."  R.  Jehudah  further 
said:  "  It  happened,  that  water  was  drawn  from  the  canal  around 
the  walls  of  a  town  (the  moat)  on  the  Sabbath  with  the  sanction 
of  the  elders,"  but  the  sages  replied:  "  That  was  done,  because 
the  canal  was  not  of  the  legal  size  (of  four  spans  width)." 

GEMARA:  The  Rabbis  taught:  If  a  partition  was  made 
where  the  canal  flowed  into  the  court  but  not  where  it  flowed 
out  of  the  court,  or  if  it  was  made  where  the  canal  flowed  out 
but  not  where  it  flowed  in,  it  is  not  lawful  to  draw  water  there- 
from on  the  Sabbath  unless  there  was  a  partition  both  where 
the  canal  flowed  into  and  out  of  the  court.  R.  Jehudah,  how- 
ever, said:  "  The  wall  above  the  canal  may  serve  as  the  parti- 
tion." 

Said  R.  Jehudah:  "  It  happened  that  water  was  drawn  from 
the  canal  flowing  into  the  city  of  Sepphoris  from  the  walls 
around  it  *  (the  canal  flowing  from  the  moat)  with  the  sanction 
of  the  elders,"  but  the  sages  said  to  him:  "  Wouldst  thou  place 
this  in  evidence  ?  In  that  case  the  canal  was  not  ten  spans  deep 
nor  four  spans  wide." 

We  have  learned  in  another  Boraitha:  "  A  canal  which  flows 
between  two  walls  which  contained  apertures,  if  it  was  less  than 
three  spans  wide,  a  bucket  may  be  let  down  from  the  apertures 
and  water  drawn  from  the  canal;  but  if  it  was  over  three  spans 
wide  this  must  not  be  done  (on  Sabbath).  R.  Simeon  ben 
Gamaliel,  however,  says,  that  if  the  canal  was  less  than  four 
spans  wide,  water  may  be  drawn  therefrom,  but  if  over  four 
spans,  this  must  not  be  done."  In  which  class  of  legal  ground 
can  such  a  canal  be  placed?  Shall  we  say:  in  the  class  of 
unclaimed  ground  ?  Then  the  statement  of  R.  Dimi  in  the  name 
of  R.  Johanan  to  the  effect  that  there  is  no  unclaimed  ground 
less  than  four  spans  will  not  be  in  accordance  with  the  opinion 
of  all  the  sages  but  merely  with  that  of  part  of  them  ;  for  accord- 
ing to  the  sages  of  the  above  Boraitha,  even  three  spans  may 
constitute  unclaimed  ground  ?  Zera  said:  "  The  sages  of  the 
Boraitha  do  differ  with  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel  concerning  this 

*  The  term  in  the  Mishna  which  we  render  with  "walls  around  the  city"  is 
"  Ebal,"  and  in  a  translation  of  the  Mishna  by  De  Sola  and  Raphall,  Ebal  is  called 
the  "  town  of  Ebal."  This  seems  to  be  inconsistent  with  the  text,  however,  as  further 
on  in  the  Gemara  we  find  "  Me-Ebal  le-Sepphoris,"  and  were  Ebal  a  town  it  is  not 
reasonable  that  a  canal  from  one  city  to  another  should  not  be  ten  spans  deep  and  four 
wide.  Aside  from  this,  the  ^Tashbir  of  Schoenhak  and  the  dictionary  of  Levy  define 
the  term  Abuloh  (Greek  ku(ioXi)),  "  walls  around  a  town." 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  209 

point  whether  unclaimed  ground  may  be  three  spans  or  four, 
and  the  statement  of  R.  Dimi  is  merely  in  accordance  with  the 
opinion  of  part  of  the  Tanaim." 

Why  should  a  canal  between  two  walls  containing  apertures 
not  be  considered  as  the  holes  in  unclaimed  ground ;  for  prior  to 
its  entering  the  space  between  the  tAvo  walls  it  was  undoubtedly 
over  four  spans  wide,  and  hence  unclaimed  ground  (as  holes  in 
public  or  private  ground  are  considered  as  part  of  public  or  pri- 
vate ground  respectively,  see  Tract  Sabbath,  p.  11)  ?  Abayi  bar 
Abhin  and  R.  Hanina  bar  Abhin  both  declare,  that  this  theory 
(of  holes  being  equal  to  the  ground)  does  not  exist  where 
unclaimed  ground  is  concerned. 

R.  Ashi,  however,  said:  Even  if  the  theory  does  apply  to 
unclaimed  ground  it  applies  only  then,  if  the  ground  is  near  to 
the  hole  (in  a  wall  of  the  ground),  but  if  it  is  a  distance  off  as  it 
must  be  in  the  case  of  this  canal,  the  theory  can  under  no  cir- 
cumstances be  applied.  Rabhina,  however,  said:  The  three, 
respectively  four  spans  discussed  in  the  Boraitha  do  not  apply 
to  the  canal,  but  to  partitions  which  were  erected  at  the  entrance 
and  outlet  of  the  canal  at  each  end  of  the  alley,  and  both  parties 
to  the  dispute  merely  adhere  to  their  respective  theories  concern- 
ing Lavud,  one  side  maintaining  that  three  spans  constitute 
"  Lavud,"  and  the  other  that  even  four  spans  accomplish  this 
object. 

MISHNA:  If  there  be  a  balcony  above  the  water,  it  is  not 
lawful  to  draw  water  therein  on  the  Sabbath,  unless  a  partition 
be  made  ten  hands  high,  either  above  or  below  the  balcony. 
Thus,  also,  if  there  be  two  balconies,  one  above  the  other: 
Should  a  partition  have  been  made  for  the  upper  and  not  for  the 
lower,  it  is  unlav/ful  to  draw  water  through  either,  unless  they 
have  been  combined  by  an  Erub. 

GEMARA:  Our  Mishna  is  not  in  accordance  with  the  opin- 
ion of  Hananiah  ben  Aqabia,  who  holds,  that  in  a  balcony  four 
ells  square,  a  hole  may  be  cut  out  four  spans  square,  etc.,  as 
related  previously  (page  207),  but  R.  Johanan  in  the  name  of 
R.  Jose  ben  Zimra  said:  "  Hananiah  ben  Aqabia  permitted  this 
to  be  done  only  in  the  case  of  a  balcony  erected  above  the  waters 
of  the  sea  of  Tiberias  for  the  restsen  as  stated  previously,  but 
not  above  other  waters." 

The  Rabbis  taught:  Three  things  were  allowed  by  R,  Hana- 
niah ben  Aqabia  to  the  inhabitants  of  Tiberias,  viz. :  To  draw 
water  through  a  balcony  on  Sabbath ;  to  deposit  fruit  in  pea- 

VOL.    III.  — 14 


2IO  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

stalks  (although,  while  in  the  field,  dew  had  settled  on  the  fruit, 
it  is  not  considered  as  being  wet,  and  hence  not  subject  to  defile- 
ment) ;  and  to  wipe  themselves  with  a  towel  when  emerging  from 
the  bath  (as  there  is  no  fear  of  their  wringing  the  towel). 

Rabba  bar  R.  Huna  said:  "  Do  not  say,  that  the  imaginary 
hanging  partition  of  the  balcony  makes  it  lawful,  only  to  draw 
water  through  the  balcony  but  not  to  pour  out  water  through  it, 
for  it  is  also  permitted  to  pour  out  superfluous  water  through 
that  balcony."  Said  R.  Shezbi:  "  Ls  this  not  self-evident  ? 
For  is  this  not  identical  with  a  sewer  mentioned  in  the  next 
Mishna  ? "  From  the  succeeding  Mishna,  where  the  sewer  is 
supposed  to  absorb  the  water,  it  is  allowed  to  pour  water  into  it 
even  if  it  be  full  and  run  over  into  the  street  because  the  inten- 
tion was  to  have  the  sewer  absorb  the  water,  but  in  this  case, 
where  the  waters  are  not  stationary,  we  might  assume  that  it  is 
not  allowed  to  pour  out  more  water  to  commence  with ;  hence 
we  are  told  by  Rabba  bar  R.  Huna  that  this  may  be  done. 

Thus,  also,  if  there  be  two  balconies,  one  above  the  other,^* 
etc.  Said  R.  Huna  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  (The  Mishna  states, 
that  if  a  partition  had  been  made  for  the  upper  and  not  for 
the  lower,  it  is  unlawful  to  draw  water  through  either.)  When 
is  this  the  case  ?  If  the  balconies  were  not  quite  four  spans 
apart,  but  if  they  were  four  spans  apart  it  is  allowed  to  draw  water 
through  the  upper.  This  is  merely  in  accordance  with  the  men- 
tioned theory  of  Rabh,  that  one  man  cannot  impede  (the  actions 
of)  another  through  atmosphere. 

Rabba  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Hyya  and  R.  Joseph  made  the 
statement  in  the  name  of  R.  Oshiya,  as  follows:  The  law  con- 
cerning robbery  is  applicable  also  on  Sabbath,  What  is  meant 
thereby  ?  If  there  was  a  ruin  belonging  to  a  man  and  another 
man  made  use  of  it  during  the  week,  it  might  be  assumed  that 
he  had  acquired  the  right  to  it  for  the  Sabbath  and  may  carry 
therein  (for  under  ordinary  circumstances,  if  a  man  robbed 
another  of  an  article  and  such  article  is  in  his  possession  it  is 
considered  as  belonging  to  him  until  the  victim  of  the  robbery 
reclaims  his  right  to  it  by  law) ;  but  we  are  given  to  understand 
that  in  this  case  as  soon  as  the  Sabbath  sets  in  the  property 
reverts  to  its  rightful  owner  (without  his  recovering  same  by 
law). 

Said  Rabba:  "  This  above  statement  (that  the  law  of  robbery 
is  applicable  also  on  Sabbath)  would  be  contradictory  to  our 
Mishna,  which  says  that  if  there  were  two  balconies  one  above  the 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  211 

other,  and  a  partition  was  made  for  the  upper,  it  is  prohibited  to 
draw  water  through  either,  etc.,  and  for  this  reason:  During  the 
week  the  upper  balcony  undoubtedly  makes  use  of  the  lower 
and  thereby  acquires  a  temporar>'  right  to  it.  If,  then,  by  using 
the  lower  balcony  during  the  week  the  upper  balcony  does  so 
wrongfully,  and  on  Sabbath  the  lower  balcony  reverts  to  its 
rightful  owners,  to  the  exclusion  of  the  inmates  of  the  upper 
balcony,  how  can  the  upper  balcony  prove  an  impediment  to  the 
lower,  which  it  cannot  use  ?  "  *  Said  R.  Shesheth :  "  The  Mishna 
refers  to  a  case,  where  the  partition  made  for  the  upper  balcony 
was  joint  property  of  both  upper  and  lower."  If  the  partition 
was  made  jointly,  of  what  benefit  would  a  partition  made  to 
the  lower  be  to  the  upper;  as  long  as  a  share  in  the  partition  of 
the  upper  balcony  is  owned  by  the  lower,  the  upper  cannot  be 
used  until  both  combine  an  Erub  ?  As  soon  as  the  lower  bal- 
cony erects  a  partition  for  itself,  it  exposes  its  intention  to  sever 
all  connection  with  the  upper  and  thus  either  balcony  may  draw 
water  through  their  respective  grounds. 

MISHNA:  If  a  court  be  less  than  four  ells  square,  it  is  not 
permitted  to  pour  water  therein  on  Sabbath,  unless  a  sewer  is 
made,  which  has  a  capacity  of  two  saahs  exclusive  of  the  walls, 
either  outside  or  within  the  court.  If  the  sewer  has  been  made 
outside  it  must  be  covered  up  (with  boards),  while  on  the  inside 
it  need  not  be  covered  up.  R.  Eliezer  ben  Jacob  said:  "  Into 
a  gutter,  which  is  covered  up  to  the  extent  of  four  ells  in  public 
ground,  it  is  permitted  to  pour  water  on  the  Sabbath  "  ;  the  sages, 
however,  hold,  that  even  though  the  court  or  roof  be  one  hun- 
dred ells  long,  it  is  not  permitted  to  pour  water  down  the  gutter 
(direct) ;  but  the  water  may  be  poured  out  on  the  roof,  so  as  to 
drop  down  into  the  gutter.  (In  computing  the  four  ells)  men- 
tioned in  the  first  clause  of  this  Mishna,  the  hall  may  be  added. 
Thus,  also,  if  there  be  two  habitations  facing  each  other  (in  one 
court)  and  the  inmates  of  one  have  made  a  sewer,  but  were  not 
joined  in  making  it  by  the  inmates  of  the  other  habitation,  those 
who  made  the  sewer  are  permitted  to  throw  water  into  it,  but 
those  that  did  not  make  it,  are  not  permitted  to  do  so. 

GEMARA:  What  is  the  reason  that  water  must  not  be 
poured  into  a  court  less  than  four  ells  square?      Said  Rabba: 


*  The  explanation  of  this  paragraph  of  the  Gemara  is  according  to  the  commen- 
tary of  Rabbena  Hananel,  as  Rashi  reverses  the  case  from  the  lower  balcony  to  the 
upper  and  presents  an  incomprehensible  explanation. 


212  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

"  A  man  generally  consumes  two  saahs  of  water  every  day.  If 
his  court  be  four  ells  square  or  more  he  pours  out  the  water  in 
order  to  lay  the  dust ;  but  if  it  be  less  than  four  ells  square,  he 
merely  would  throw  out  the  water  in  order  to  have  it  run  out 
into  the  street  (and  that  is  prohibited  as  a  precaution,  lest  he 
should  pour  out  the  water  into  the  street  direct)." 

R.  Zera  said :  "  A  court  of  four  ells  square  absorbs  two  saahs 
of  water,  hence,  even  should  part  of  it  run  out  into  the  street, 
it  was  not  the  intention  of  the  man  who  poured  it  out  that  it 
should,  but  if  the  court  is  less  than  four  ells  square  it  does  not 
absorb  that  quantity  of  water  and  part  of  it  must  needs  run  out 
into  the  street,  hence  it  is  prohibited  to  pour  it  out."  Wherein 
lies  the  difference  between  Rabba  and  R.  Zera  ?  Said  Abayi : 
"  If  the  court  was  oblong,  say  eight  ells  by  two.  It  absorbs  the 
water  undoubtedly,  but  as  for  laying  the  dust  in  a  court  of  that 
size  a  man  would  not  trouble  himself  to  pour  out  water  for  that 
purpose."  An  objection  was  made  based  upon  our  Mishna, 
which  states  in  computing  the  four  ells  square  of  the  court  the 
hall  may  be  added.  Would  this  not  prove  that  the  reason  is 
according  to  R.  Zera?  "According  to  Rabba,"  explained  R. 
Zera,  "  the  Mishna  might  refer  to  a  hall  which,  surrounding  the 
court,  made  it  in  the  form  of  a  square,  e.g.,  if  the  court  was 
four  ells  long  by  two  wide,  and  the  hall  added  two  ells  to  the 
width." 

''  R.  Eliezer  ben  Jacob  said:  'Into  a  gutter,'''  etc.  Our 
Mishna  is  not  in  accordance  with  the  opinion  of  Hananiah,  for 
we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  "  Hananiah  said:  '  Even  if  the 
roof  be  one  hundred  ells  long,  it  is  not  permitted  to  pour  water 
on  it,  as  it  is  not  made  for  the  purpose  of  absorbing  the  water, 
but  for  the  purpose  of  throwing  it  off  into  the  street.'  " 

It  was  taught  in  a  Boraitha:  "  All  these  regulations  concern- 
ing the  pouring  of  water  apply  only  to  summer  but  during  the 
rainy  period  one  may  pour  as  much  water  as  he  chooses  into  the 
court."  Why  is  this  so?  Said  Rabha:  "  Because  it  is  the 
intention  of  the  man  to  have  the  court  absorb  the  water."  Said 
Abayi  to  him:  "Unclean  water  is  certainly  intended  to  be 
absorbed  by  the  ground,  still  it  is  not  permitted  to  pour  it  down 
the  gutter. "  Rejoined  Rabha:  "  Why  should  this  not  be  per- 
mitted during  the  rainy  season  ?  Can  it  be  the  intention  of  the 
man  that  the  water  should  run  out  into  the  street  in  order  that 
his  court  should  not  become  muddy  ?  It  is  already  muddy. 
Then  the  reason  might  possibly  be  in  the  manner  of  a  precau- 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  213 

tion,  lest  the  man  pour  the  water  into  the  street  direct  or  others 
seeing  water  running  out  of  a  court,  might  assume  that  it  is 
allowed  to  pour  out  such  water  into  the  court  even  during  the 
dry  season  ?  The  precaution  is  unnecessary.  Those  who  see 
water  running  out  of  the  court  will  naturally  conclude  that  it  is 
rain-water,  because  of  the  rainy  season  of  the  year,  and  there  is 
no  fear  of  the  man  pouring  out  the  water  into  the  street,  because 
his  court  being  already  muddy,  he  will  not  mind  pouring  more 
water  into  it."  Said  Aoayi:  "According  to  thy  explanation, 
then,  during  the  rainy  season  the  quantity  of  water  is  immaterial, 
even  if  it  be  a  kur  or  two  it  may  be  poured  out  nevertheless." 

"  If  there  be  two  habitations  facing  each  other,''  etc.  It  was 
taught:  Rabba  said:  "They  must  not  pour  water  into  the 
sewer,  provided  they  did  not  combine  an  Erub,  but  if  they  did 
combine  an  Erub,  they  may  pour  water  into  the  sewer."  And 
if  they  did  not  combine  an  Erub,  why  should  it  not  be  allowed  ? 
They  merely  throw  the  water  down  the  sewer!  Said  R.  Ashi : 
"  This  is  merely  a  precautionary  measure,  lest  they  fill  some 
vessels  with  water  and  then  carry  them  to  the  sewer." 


CHAPTER   IX. 

REGULATIONS    CONCERNING    THE    COMBINING    OF    ROOFS   ON   SABBATH. 

MISHNA:  All  the  roofs  of  a  town  are  considered  one  pri- 
vate ground  (although  the  houses  underneath  are  occupied  by 
several),  provided  there  be  not  one  roof  ten  hands  higher  or  ten 
hands  lower  than  the  rest.  Such  is  the  dictum  of  R.  Meir;  the 
sages,  however,  hold,  that  each  roof  constitutes  a  separate  private 
ground.  R.  Simeon  said :  Roofs,  as  well  as  courts  and  wooa- 
stores,  constitute  one  private  ground,  for  the  carrying  of  all  sucii 
utensils  as  were  actually  situated  there  when  the  Sabbath  set  in, 
but  not  for  the  carrying  of  such  utensils  as  were  still  in  the  house 
when  the  Sabbath  set  in. 

GEMARA:  Abayi  bar  Abhin  and  R.  Hanina  bar  Abhin 
were  sitting  alongside  of  Abayi,  and  were  conversing  between 
themselves:  "It  is  right  according  to  the  sages,  who  hold,  that 
in  the  same  manner  as  the  houses  are  separated  below,  so  are 
also  the  roofs  above ;  thus,  unless  an  Erub  is  made  between  the 
houses,  it  is  not  permitted  to  carry  from  one  roof  to  the  other; 
but  what  is  the  opinion  of  R.  Meir  ?  Does  he  hold,  that  as  the 
houses  are  separated  so  are  also  the  roofs,  why  does  he  state, 
that  all  the  roofs  constitute  one  private  ground ;  or  if  he  holds 
that  above  ten  spans  there  is  nothing  but  private  ground,  what 
difference  does  it  make  to  him,  whether  a  roof  be  ten  spans 
higher  or  lower  than  the  rest  ?  "  Said  Abayi  to  the  two  brothers : 
"  Have  ye  not  heard  the  dictum  of  R.  Itz'hak  bar  Abhdimi  to 
the  effect,  that  R.  Meir  said  thus :  '  Where  there  are  two  dis- 
tinct premises  both  of  which,  however,  are  legally  private  ground, 
e.g.,  a  pillar,  ten  spans  high  and  four  spans  wide  standing  in  pri- 
vate ground,  and  which  must  not  be  used  to  shoulder  burdens 
thereon  on  the  Sabbath,  lest  a  heap  of  the  same  size  standing  in 
public  ground  be  used  for  the  same  purpose,'  so  it  is  also  in 
this  case,  where  a  roof  is  ten  spans  lower  or  higher  than  the  rest 
the  same  precautionary  measure  applies." 

The  two  brothers  hearing  this  from  Abayi  thought,  that 
according  to  R.  Meir  the  same  case  applied  to  a  mortar  or  kettle, 

214 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  215 

ten  spans  high ;  said  Abayi  to  them :  "  My  master  told  me,  that 
R.  Meir  said,  this  precaution  applied  only  to  a  pillar  and  a  mill- 
stone because  for  these  two  objects  special  places  are  designated, 
but  as  for  other  utensils,  even  if  they  be  ten  spans  high,  the  pre- 
caution is  unnecessary." 

"  The  sages,  however,  hold,  that  each  roof  constitutes  a  separate 
private  ground.''  It  was  taught:  Rabh  said:  "  On  every  roof 
things  must  not  be  handled  except  within  a  limit  of  four  ells," 
but  Samuel  said :  "  They  may  be  handled  in  the  whole  extent  of 
the  roof."  If  the  roofs  are  separated  and  the  separation  is 
apparent,  all  agree,  that  carrying  things  on  those  roofs  is  permis- 
sible (because  in  this  case  the  walls  underneath  are  considered  as 
if  they  reached  up  to  the  tops  of  the  roofs)  but  they  differ  con- 
cerning roofs  that  are  separated,  where  the  separation  is  not 
apparent.  Rabh  holds  that  things  must  not  be  carried  on  those 
roofs  (where  the  separation  is  not  apparent)  except  for  a  distance 
of  four  ells,  because  he  does  not  admit,  in  this  case,  the  theory 
of  Gud  Assik  (possibility  of  the  walls  reaching  up  to  the  tops  of 
the  roofs),  while  Samuel,  who  does  admit  the  theory,  holds,  that 
carrying  is  permitted  in  the  entire  extent  of  the  roofs  (because  he 
admits  of  the  possibility  of  the  walls  reaching  the  tops  of  the  roofs). 

An  objection  was  made  based  upon  our  Mishna:  The  sages 
hold,  that  each  roof  constitutes  a  separate  private  ground.  This 
is  in  accordance  with  Samuel's  opinion  but  is  contradictory  to 
the  opinion  of  Rabh.  The  disciples  of  Rabh  said  in  his  name, 
that  the  statement,  "  things  must  not  be  handled  except  within 
a  hmit  of  four  ells,"  meant  to  signify,  "  two  ells  in  each  adjoin- 
ing roof"  (but  in  the  one  roof  things  may  be  handled  through- 
out its  entire  extent). 

Abayi  said:  "  If  a  man  erected  an  attic  on  top  of  his  house 
and  provided  it  with  a  small  door  four  spans  wide,  he  may  carry 
things  in  all  the  roofs."  (The  reason  for  this  statement  is,  that 
the  fact  of  the  man  having  made  an  attic  and  provided  it  with  a 
door  is  proof,  that  the  other  inmates  had  resigned  their  right  to 
the  use  of  the  roof  in  his  favor.)  Said  Rabha:  "  It  may  happen, 
that  the  small  door  with  which  the  attic  was  provided  may  pre- 
vent the  man  from  using  the  other  roofs  "  (even  according  to  R. 
Meir).  How  so  ?  If  the  door  in  the  attic  faced  a  garden  below 
and  the  partition  made  by  the  attic  separated  his  roof  from  the 
others,  it  might  be  said,  that  he  made  that  door  merely  so  as  to 
be  able  to  watch  his  garden  and  renounced  his  right  to  the  use 
of  the  roofs. 


2i6  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

(It  was  taught :)  Roofs,  level  one  to  the  other  in  which, 
according  to  R.  Meir,  it  is  permitted  to  carry  things,  and  a  single 
roof  which  may  be  used  according  to  the  sages,  may  according  to 
Rabh  be  used  throughout  their  whole  extent,  while  according  to 
Samuel,  it  is  only  allowed  to  use  them  for  an  extent  of  four  ells. 
Would  not  this  be  a  contradiction  by  Rabh  to  his  previous 
statement  and  by  Samuel  to  his  own  former  dictum  ?  This  can 
be  explained  thus:  Rabh's  previous  statement  referred  to  a  case, 
where  the  separation  between  the  roofs  was  not  apparent  while 
in  this  case  the  separation  is  apparent  and  Samuel's  former 
dictum  referred  to  a  roof  that  had  less  than  two  saahs'  capacity, 
while  in  this  case  it  refers  to  a  roof  that  has  a  capacity  of  more 
than  two  saah.  Why  should  a  roof  of  that  size  not  be  allowed 
to  be  used  ?  The  possibility  of  the  walls  reaching  the  tops  of  the 
roofs  is  not  admitted,  for  the  reason  that  partitions  which  enclose 
dwellings  are  made  downwards  and  are  not  supposed  to  extend 
upwards,  and  of  a  space  which  is  not  enclosed  by  partitions  of 
dwellings  and  has  a  capacity  of  over  two  saah,  only  four  ells 
may  be  used. 

It  was  taught :  Concerning  a  ship,  Rabh  said,  one  may  carry 
things  throughout  the  whole  extent  of  the  ship,  because  the 
space  of  a  ship  is  enclosed  with  partitions,  and  Samuel  said,  one 
may  carry  only  to  the  extent  of  four  ells.  Why  so  ?  Because 
the  partitions  were  not  made  for  the  purpose  of  making  the 
space  inhabitable  but  merely  to  keep  out  the  water.  Said  R. 
Hyya  bar  Joseph  to  Samuel:  "According  to  whose  opinion 
does  the  Halakha  prevail  ?  According  to  thy  opinion  or  accord- 
ing to  Rabh's,"  and  Samuel  answered,  "  The  Halakha  prevails 
according  to  Rabh." 

R.  Giddel  in  the  name  of  R.  Hyya  bar  Joseph  said:  "  Rabh 
agrees  with  Samuel's  opinion,  concerning  a  ship  that  was  in  dry 
dock  and  turned  over,  that  it  was  only  permitted  to  carry  things 
for  a  distance  of  four  ells."  For  what  purpose  was  the  ship 
turned  over  ?  If  people  lived  within  it,  why  should  it  not  be 
allowed  to  carry  things  throughout  its  whole  extent  ?  Is  the 
bottom  of  the  ship  not  equal  to  a  roof,  when  the  ship  was  turned 
over  ?     Nay;  the  ship  was  turned  over  for  a  coating  of  tar. 

R.  Jehudah  said :  When  we  shall  arrive  at  the  final  conclu- 
sions of  R.  Meir  we  shall  find  that  all  roofs  are  considered  as 
one  private  ground  in  their  own  right,  i.e.,  that  carrying  from 
one  roof  to  the  other  is  permissible;  also  that  all  courts  are  con- 
sidered as  one  private  ground  and  likewise  all  woodsheds,  but 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  217 

from  the  final  conclusions  of  the  sages  we  shall  learn,  that  roofs 
and  courts  constitute  one  private  ground,  i.e.,  that  it  is  permitted 
to  carry  things  from  the  roof  to  the  court  and  vice  versa,  which, 
according  to  R.  Meir  is  not  allowed.  The  woodsheds,  however, 
are  considered  according  to  the  sages  a  separate  private  ground, 
i.e.,  things  may  be  carried  from  one  woodshed  to  another  but 
not  from  a  woodshed  into  a  court.  The  final  conclusions  of  R. 
Simeon  denote,  that  all  roofs,  courts,  and  woodsheds  are  consid- 
ered as  one  private  ground. 

We  have  learned  one  Boraitha  in  support  of  Rabh  and 
another  in  support  of  R.  Jehudah.  The  one  supporting  Rabh 
reads  as  follows:  "  All  roofs  of  the  town  are  considered  as  one 
private  ground ;  but  it  is  prohibited  to  carry  things  from  the  roofs 
to  the  courts,  and  vice  versa.''  Vessels  which  were  situated  in 
the  court  before  the  Sabbath  set  in,  may  be  carried  in  all  the 
courts,  and  those  situated  in  the  roofs  before  the  Sabbath  set  in 
may  be  handled  in  all  the  roofs,  provided  there  is  not  a  roof  ten 
spans  higher  or  lower  than  the  rest.  Such  is  the  dictum  of  R. 
Meir;  but  the  sages  said:  Every  roof  constitutes  a  separate 
ground  and  things  must  not  be  carried  in  it  for  a  distance  of  over 
four  ells.  This  bears  out  the  statement  of  Rabh  in  which  he 
says  that  when  the  separation  between  the  roofs  is  not  apparent 
one  must  not  carry  except  in  a  limit  of  four  ells. 

In  support  of  R.  Jehudah  we  have  learned  the  following 
Boraitha:  Rabbi  said:  "  When  we  learned  the  Law  at  R.  Sim- 
eon's in  the  city  of  Thequa,  we  would  carry  towels  and  oil  from 
one  roof  to  another,  from  that  to  the  court,  and  from  that 
to  another,  and  from  the  other  court  to  a  woodshed,  and  from 
that  to  another,  until  we  would  come  to  the  springs  where  we 
would  bathe." 

Said  R.  Jehudah:  "  It  happened  in  a  time  of  danger,  that  we 
brought  up  the  sacred  scrolls  from  a  court  to  a  roof,  from  the 
roof  to  another  court,  and  from  that  to  a  woodshed  in  order  to 
read  therein."  The  sages  answered:  "Acts  committed  during 
a  time  of  danger  do  not  serve  as  evidence," 

' '  R.  Simeon  said:  '  Roofs  as  well  as  courts  and  woodsheds, '  ' ' 
etc.  Said  Rabh:  "  The  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Sim- 
eon, providing  no  Erub  was  made,  but  if  an  Erub  was  effected, 
it  is  not  so,  because  there  is  fear,  lest  the  utensils  from  the  houses 
be  carried  out  on  the  Sabbath  and  are  then  carried  about  in  all 
the  courts."  (R.  Simeon  himself  admits,  that  they  form  one 
private  ground  for  the  carrying  of  such  utensils  as  were  actually 


2i8  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

within  the  courts  or  roofs  when  the  Sabbath  set  in  but  nor  for 
such  utensils  as  were  within  the  house.)  Samuel,  however,  as 
well  as  R.  Johanan,  said:  "  There  is  no  difference  whether  an 
Erub  was  made  or  not." 

R.  Hisda  opposed  this:  According  to  Samuel  and  R.  Johanan 
there  will  be  two  kinds  of  vessels  in  the  court,  one  kind,  which 
had  already  been  situated  in  the  court  when  the  Sabbath  set  in, 
and  the  other,  which  was  brought  out  from  the  house  during 
Sabbath.  Is  then  not  the  precautionary  measure  decreed  by 
Rabh  really  necessary  ?  Simeon  holds  to  his  theory  that  pre- 
cautionary measures  are  not  necessary. 

Come  and  hear:  "  Five  courts  which  opened  into  each  other 
and  also  opened  into  one  alley,  the  inmates  of  which  had  all  for- 
gotten and  not  combined  an  Erub,  (the  inmates)  are  prohibited 
to  carry  in  or  carry  out  from  the  court  into  the  alley,  or  from  the 
alley  into  the  court.  The  utensils  which  were  situated  in  the 
courts  when  the  Sabbath  set  in  may  be  carried  in  the  courts,  but 
the  utensils  which  were  situated  in  the  alley  must  not  be  carried 
even  in  the  alley.  R.  Simeon,  however,  permits  this  to  be  done 
(even  to  carry  the  utensils  of  the  court  into  the  alley)  because  he 
used  to  say:  as  long  as  many  people  lived  there  and  had  forgotten 
to  combine  an  Erub,  the  roof,  the  court,  the  balcony,  the  gallery, 
the  woodshed,  and  the  alley  are  all  considered  the  same  legal 
premises."  Thus  we  see  that  R.  Simeon  makes  this  decree  only 
if  no  Erub  was  made,  but  if  an  Erub  was  made  he  would  not  do 
so;  hence  he  contradicts  Samuel  and  R.  Johanan?  Nay;  R. 
Simeon  states  this  merely  to  supplement  the  statement  of  the 
sages  and  says  to  them:  "  As  far  as  I  am  concerned  it  makes  no 
difference  whether  an  Erub  was  made  or  not,  but  according  to 
your  opinion,  grant  me,  that  when  no  Erub  was.  made  the 
courts,  the  roofs,  etc.  all  constitute  the  same  legal  premises." 
The  sages,  however,  answered:  "  Nay;  according  to  our  opinion, 
each  constitutes  separate  premises." 

Said  Rabhina  to  R.  Ashi:  "  Is  it  possible  that  R.  Johanan 
said  this  ?  Did  not  R.  Johanan  say,  that  the  Halakha  prevails 
according  to  an  anonymous  Mishna,  and  we  have  learned  previ- 
ously (Chapter  VII.,  Mishna  2)  concerning  a  wall  between  two 
courts,  if  there  was  fruit  on  the  wall,  the  inmates  of  both  courts 
may  partake  of  the  fruit  providing  they  do  not  carry  any  of  it 
down  with  them  ?  Hence  we  see  that  it  is  not  permitted,  accord- 
ing to  that  Mishna,  to  carry  things  from  one  court  into  another 
even  if  an  Erub  was  made  by  each  court !  "  (R.  Ashi  answered :) 


TRACT    ERUBIN. 


219 


By  carrying  it  down  is  meant  carrying  it  down  into  the  houses, 
but  carrying  it  down  into  the  courts  is  permitted. 

Asked  Rabhina  again:  "  Did  not  R.  Hyya  teach  (in  addition 
to  the  quoted  Mishna),  '  providing  the  inmates  of  each  court  do 
not  take  it  down  into  their  respective  courts  and  eat  it '?  "  Said 
R.  Ashi :  "  If  Rabbi  did  not  teach  this  in  the  Mishna,  whence 
does  R.  Hyya  adduce  that  explanation  (I  think  that  my  inter- 
pretation of  the  Mishna  is  correct)  ?" 

It  was  taught:  "  If  there  were  two  courts,  which  had  a  ruin 
between  them  and  the  inmates  of  one  court  combined  an  Erub, 
while  the  inmates  of  the  other  did  not,  R.  Huna  said  that  the 
court  that  had  not  the  Erub  is  entitled  to  the  ruin  {i.e.,  the  ves- 
sels situated  in  their  court  may  be  transferred  to  the  ruin)  but  the 
court  that  had  combined  the  Erub  is  not  entitled  to  the  ruin  for 
fear  that  they  might  carry  out  vessels,  which  were  situated  in  their 
houses  on  the  Sabbath,  into  the  court,  and  thence  into  the  ruin." 

Hyya,  the  son  of  Rabh,  however,  said :  (I  heard  from  my 
father)  that  even  the  court  that  had  an  Erub  combined  may  be 
entitled  to  the  ruin  and  I  explain  my  father's  dictum  to  signify, 
that  the  utensils  contained  in  either  court  may  be  transferred  to 
the  ruin.  If  thou  shouldst  explain  my  father's  dictum  to  sig- 
nify, that  neither  of  the  courts  may  make  use  of  the  ruin, 
because  he  understood  R.  Simeon's  decree  to  mean  "  if  they 
had  made  an  Erub  they  became  separate  premises,"  hence,  in 
this  case,  one  of  the  courts  having  combined  an  Erub  interferes 
with  others  also,  I  will  answer  it  by  saying,  that  such  would  be 
the  case  if  there  were  an  occupied  court  between  them,  in  which 
event  there  might  be  vessels  which  were  situated  in  the  court 
when  the  Sabbath  set  in  and  also  vessels  which  had  been  carried 
out  of  the  houses,  so  that  it  would  be  impossible  to  distinguish 
which  could  and  which  could  not  be  carried  throughout  all  the 
courts.  When,  however,  as  is  the  case  here,  a  ruin  is  between 
the  two  courts  where  there  are  no  vessels  which  are  actually 
situated  there,  the  danger  of  confusion  is  removed  and  hence 
my  explanation  is,  that  it  is  permitted  for  both  courts  to  transfer 
their  vessels  to  the  ruin. 

MISHNA:  If  a  large  roof  adjoin  a  small  one,  the  owners  of 
the  large  roof  are  permitted  to  carry  things  thither  from  the 
house,  but  the  owners  of  the  small  roof  are  prohibited  to  do  this. 
If  a  large  court  opens  into  a  small  one,  through  a  breach  in  the 
wall,  the  inmates  of  the  large  court  are  permitted  to  carry 
things  through  the  breach,  but  the  inmates  of  the  small  court 


220  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

are  prohibited  to  do  so,  because  the  smaller  court  is  considered 
as  an  entry  to  the  larger, 

GEMARA:  Why  does  the  Mishna  teach  both  cases,  concern- 
ing a  roof  and  a  court  ?  According  to  Rabh,  the  object  is  to 
demonstrate  that  in  the  same  manner  as  courts  are  divided  by 
partitions  so  should  the  partitions  between  roofs  be  apparent. 
According  to  Samuel,  the  object  is  to  show,  that  a  roof  is  on  a 
par  with  a  court,  i.e.,  as  the  latter  is  used  by  many,  so  also  is 
the  former. 

Rabba,  R.  Zera,  and  Rabba  bar  R.  Hanan  were  sitting 
together  and  Abayi  sate  close  by.  They  said:  "  From  this 
Mishna  we  may  adduce,  that  the  inmates  of  the  larger  court 
control  the  actions  of  the  smaller,  whereas  the  inmates  of  the 
smaller  court  exert  no  influence  over  those  of  the  larger.  How 
so  ?  (For  instance:)  If  vines  were  planted  in  the  larger,  other 
seed  must  not  be  planted  in  the  smaller;  but  if  the  vines  were 
planted  in  the  smaller,  any  other  seed  may  be  planted  in  the 
larger.  If  a  woman  who  was  to  be  divorced  stood  in  the  smaller 
court  and  the  bill  of  divorce  was  thrown  to  her  from  the  larger 
court,  she  is  thereby  legally  divorced,  but  if  she  stood  in  the 
larger  and  the  bill  was  thrown  to  her  from  the  smaller  court, 
she  is  not  legally  divorced.  If  the  congregation  assembled  for 
prayer  stood  in  the  larger  and  the  reader  who  was  to  recite  the 
prayer  for  them  was  in  the  smaller,  they  have  acquitted  them- 
selves of  their  duty;  if  they  were  in  the  smaller  court,  however, 
and  the  reader  was  in  the  larger,  they  have  not.  If  there  were 
nine  men  in  the  larger  court  and  one  man  in  the  smaller,  that 
one  man  is  counted  in  with  the  nine  and  it  constitutes  a  legal 
assembly  for  prayer  or  for  the  commission  of  religious  acts,  but 
if  there  were  nine  men  in  the  smaller  and  one  in  the  larger  that 
one  man  cannot  be  counted  in.  If  there  was  a  filthy  thing  in 
the  smaller  court  (on  account  of  which  the  Shema  prayer  could 
not  be  recited)  the  larger  court  may  nevertheless  recite  the 
prayer;  but  if  the  filthy  thing  was  in  the  larger  court  the  inmates 
of  the  smaller  are  not  allowed  to  do  so." 

Said  Abayi  to  them:  "  According  to  this  then,  a  partition, 
which  under  ordinary  circumstances  should  facilitate  the  observ- 
ance of  laws,  would  prove  a  detriment ;  for  were  there  no  parti- 
tion between  the  larger  and  smaller  court  and  vines  were  planted 
anywhere  within  the  two  courts,  a  man  would  simpl)^  be  obliged 
to  measure  off  four  ells  whence  the  vines  grew  and  could  then 
plant  whatever  he  chose." 


TRACT    ERUBIN. 


Rabha,  through  R.  Shmaiah  ben  Zera,  sent  the  following 
query  to  Abayi:  "  Do  we  not  find  as  a  matter  of  fact  that  a 
partition  at  times  proves  a  detriment  ?  Did  we  not  learn  in  a 
Boraitha,  that  concerning  the  partitions  of  a  vineyard  there  are 
instances  where  they  make  the  observance  of  laws  more  lenient 
and  on  the  other  hand  there  are  instances  where  they  make  it 
more  rigorous."  How  so  ?  If  the  vines  are  planted  hard  by 
the  partition,  one  may  on  the  other  side  of  the  partition  plant 
whatever  he  chooses.  If  there  were  no  partition,  however,  he 
would  have  to  measure  off  four  ells  whence  the  vines  grew  and 
then  plant  whatever  he  chose.  This  is  an  instance  of  leniency 
caused  by  the  partition.  When  does  it  make  the  law  more  rig- 
orous ?  If  the  vines  were  planted  to  within  eleven  ells  of  the 
partition,  it  is  not  allowed  to  plant  other  seed  anywhere  within 
those  eleven  ells ;  but  if  there  were  no  partition,  four  ells  would 
suffice  between  the  vineyard  and  the  place  where  other  seed  was 
to  be  planted.  Rejoined  Abayi:  "  Why  base  thy  query  upon 
a  Boraitha,  if  in  thy  opinion  the  partition  is  the  main  issue  ? 
Why  not  cite  the  following  Mishna  ?  (Kilaim,  Chapter  IV., 
Mishna  2 :)  'If  the  space  between  the  vineyard  and  the  fence 
which  surrounds  it  be  less  than  twelve  square  ells,  no  other  seed 
may  be  sown  therein ;  but  if  it  measure  that  superficies,  a  vacant 
space  must  be  allowed  for  the  cultivation  of  the  vines  growing 
near  it,  and  the  rest  of  the  ground  may  be  used  for  saving  (other 
seed).'  "  We  must  say,  that  because  in  the  Mishna  the  partition 
is  not  the  issue,  but  it  is  a  question  of  the  space  between  the 
four  ells  allowed  for  the  cultivation  of  the  vineyard  and  the  four 
ells  allowed  to  the  hedge  or  fence,  and  if  such  space  is  four  ells 
wide  {i.e.,  if  the  whole  is  twelve)  other  seed  may  be  sown 
therein,  but  if  less  than  four,  it  is  abandoned.  Hence  we  might 
say,  that  the  same  issue  is  treated  of  in  the  Boraitha  ? 

R.  Jehudah  said:  "  If  there  are  three  woodsheds  opening 
into  each  other,  of  which  the  two  outer  are  enclosed  while  the 
middle   one  is  not  1     ^      ■■i 

wamwtA  B  I  I 


(see  illustration  y4), 

and  there  is  a  man 

in  each  of  the  wood-   ^ 

sheds,  the  men  are 
considered  as  a  caravan  and  are  entitled  to  as  much  room  as  they 
desire.  If  the  middle  one,  however,  was  enclosed,  but  the  two 
outer  ones  were  not  (see  illustration  E),  and  there  was  a  man  in 
each  of  the  three  woodsheds,  they  are  entitled  to  a  space  of  six 


222  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

saahs'  capacity,  i.e.,  two  saahs  to  each  man.  (For  the  reason, 
that  in  the  first  instance  the  middle  woodshed  is  smaller  than 
either  of  the  two  outer  ones  and  is  virtually  absorbed  by  them, 
while  in  the  latter  case,  the  middle  woodshed  is  the  larger,  but 
cannot  absorb  the  two  outer  ones,  hence  the  men  cannot  be  con- 
sidered as  a  caravan.)" 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question:  "  How  is  it  if  (in 
the  latter  instance  of  the  woodsheds,  illustration  B)  there  were 
two  men  in  the  middle  woodshed  and  one  each  in  the  outer 
sheds  ?  Shall  we  assume  that  the  two  men  of  the  middle  shed, 
having  a  right  to  either  shed,  are  considered  as  being  in  either 
one  of  the  two  outer  sheds,  and  three  persons  being  in  one  place, 
thereby  form  a  caravan,  or  shall  we  say,  that  as  there  are  two 
men  in  the  middle  woodshed,  each  one  of  them  can  occupy 
either  court,  in  which  event  there  would  be  two  people  each  in 
the  outer  courts  and  no  caravan  is  formed — consequently  they 
are  entitled  only  to  a  space  of  two  saahs'  capacity  for  each 
man  ?  If  the  latter  instance  should  apply,  how  would  it  be  if 
there  were  two  men  in  each  of  the  outer  sheds  and  one  man  in 
the  middle  shed  ?  Whichever  court  he  might  occupy,  there 
would  be  three  men,  and  thus  a  caravan  would  be  formed,  or, 
because  there  is  doubt  which  he  would  occupy,  having  a  right 
to  either,  it  would  not  be  considered  as  a  caravan?"  The 
answer  was:  "All  ordinances  pertaining  to  Erubin  should  be 
construed  in  their  most  lenient  form." 

Said  R.  Hisda:  "  If  a  court  was  five  spans  higher  at  the 
edges  than  in  the  centre  and  a  partition  of  five  spans  height 
was  added  to  the  edges,  it  does  not  constitute  a  valid  partition ; 
for  either  the  edges  must  be  ten  spans  high  to  commence  with 
or  the  partition  must  be  made  ten  spans  high."  Mareimar, 
however,  maintained,  that  the  two  may  be  counted  together  and 
constitute  a  legal  partition. 

Rabhina  met  R.  A'ha  the  son  of  Rabha  and  asked  him : 
"Does  the  master  teach  anything  pertaining  to  partitions?" 
and  he  answered  :  ' '  Nay. ' '  The  Halakha  prevails,  that  the  edges 
of  the  court  and  the  partitions  are  counted  together  and  con- 
stitute a  legal  partition. 

R.  Oshiya  propoun,ded  a  question:  "  How  is  it  if  new  habi- 
tations are  added  to  a  court  on  the  Sabbath  {i.e.,  if  a  wall 
between  two  courts  had  become  broken  and  thus  new  dwellings 
were  added);  do  they  impede  the  inmates  of  that  court  or  not  ?  " 
Said  R.   Hisda:  Come  and  hear:  (We  have  learned   this  in  our 


TRACT    ERUBIN,  223 

Mishna:)  "  If  a  large  court  opens  into  a  small  one,  through  a 
breach  in  the  wall,  the  inmates  of  the  large  court  are  permitted 
to  carry  things  through  the  breach,  but  the  inmates  of  the  small 
court  are  prohibited  to  do  so."  Rejoined  Rabba:  "  Perhaps 
the  Mishna  refers  to  a  breach  that  was  made  before  the  Sab- 
bath set  in."  Said  Abayi:  "  The  Master  should  not  say  '  per- 
haps ' ;  it  is  certain,  that  the  breach  was  caused  on  the  eve  of 
Sabbath  ;  because  didst  not  thou,  Master,  say  thyself  at  one  time, 
that  thou  didst  ask  of  R.  Huna  and  of  R.  Jehudah  concerning 
an  Erub  which  was  made  through  an  aperture  or  a  door  which 
had  accidentally  become  closed  up  on  the  Sabbath  and  they  told 
thee,  that  if  that  happened  after  the  Sabbath  set  in,  the  Erub  is 
valid  for  the  whole  Sabbath,  having  been  valid  at  the  beginning 
(and  they  certainly  would  not  contradict  a  Mishna)!  " 

It  was  taught :  If  a  wall  between  two  courts  was  destroyed 
on  the  Sabbath,  Rabh  said,  that  it  is  not  permitted  to  carry 
things  in  either  of  the  courts  for  a  distance  of  over  four  ells, 
but  Samuel  maintains,  that  the  inmates  of  each  court  may 
carry  as  far  as  the  ruins  of  the  wall.  The  statement  herein 
attributed  to  Rabh  was  not  made  by  him  outright,  but  was 
inferred  from  the  occurrence  as  follows :  Rabh  and  Samuel  were 
both  sitting  in  one  court  on  Sabbath  and  suddenly  the  wall  of 
the  court  caved  in.  Said  Samuel  to  the  other  inmates  of  the 
court:  "  Take  a  garment  and  hang  it  up  in  place  of  the  wall." 
Rabh  turned  away  his  face  from  Samuel.  Said  Samuel:  "If 
Abba  (Rabh)  is  angry  let  him  take  his  girdle  and  fasten  the  gar- 
ment with  it  to  the  wall."  If  according  to  Samuel  it  is  allowed 
to  carry  as  far  as  the  ruins  of  the  wall,  why  did  he  order  that  a 
garment  should  be  fastened  as  a  partition  ?  Samuel  did  not 
order  this  to  be  done  in  order  to  make  a  partition  but  merely  to 
prevent  outsiders  from  peering  into  the  court.  And  Rabh !  if 
he  holds  that  it  is  not  allowed  to  carry  he  should  have  said  so  ? 
It  was  Samuel's  domain,  and  he  could  not  contradict  him  at  that 
time.  Why  then  did  he  turn  away  his  face  ?  (Surely  he  is  not 
responsible  for  Samuel's  actions.)  In  order  to  show  that  he  did 
not  agree  with  Samuel's  opinion  but  still  adhered  to  his  Oivn. 

MISHNA:  If  a  court  (through  an  incavation  of  its  walls)  is 
laid  open  to  public  ground,  whosoever  brings  anything'  from 
private  ground  into  such  a  court,  or  from  the  court  into  private 
ground,  is  culpable.  Such  is  the  dictum  of  R.  Eliezer.  The 
sages  hold,  however:  Whoever  brings  anything  from  the  court 
into  public  ground,  or  from   public  ground   into   the   court,  is 


224  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

absolved ;  since  the  court  (through  the  incavation  of  its  walls 
and  consequent  opening)  has  become  like  unclaimed  ground. 

GEMARA:  Does  R.  Eliezer  hold,  that  if  a  court  by  reason 
of  the  incavation  of  its  walls  is  laid  open  to  public  ground,  it 
becomes  public  ground?  Yea!  He  holds  to  his  theory  as 
expressed  elsewhere  (Baba  Bathra),  that  if  the  public  had  taken 
a  certain  path  through  a  meadow  (although  there  was  no  path) 
and  used  it  constantly,  it  remains  a  path  (and  the  same  is  the 
case  with  this  court;  if  it  was  laid  open  into  public  ground  it 
becomes  the  same  as  public  ground).  This  is  not  so !  Did  not 
R.  Giddel  say  in  the  name  of  Rabh,  that  R.  Eliezer  (in  the  pas- 
sage quoted)  referred  to  a  case  where  the  original  path  had  been 
lost  and  could  not  be  found,  and  if  we  would  assume  that  in  the 
case  of  the  court  he  holds,  that  only  the  space  which  had  been 
lost  to  the  public,  i.e.,  where  it  is  not  apparent  that  the  wall  had 
been  standing,  becomes  as  public  ground,  but  the  whole  court  is 
certainly  not  to  be  considered  such ;  did  not  R.  Hanina  say,  that 
the  sages  and  R.  Eliezer  differ  as  to  the  entire  space  up  to  where 
the  wall  was  standing  ?  Hence  we  must  say,  that  R.  Eliezer 
holds  the  entire  court  to  have  become  as  public  ground !  The 
statement  of  R.  Hanina  should  be  modified  to  the  effect,  that 
they  differ  only  as  to  the  space  that  had  been  occupied  by  the 
wall  and  not  up  to  the  wall ;  thus  R.  Eliezer  does  not  consider 
the  entire  court  as  public  ground.  If  you  wish,  I  may  say,  that 
(the  place  where  the  wall  stood  is  still  apparent,  and)  the  sages 
differ  with  R.  Eliezer  merely  as  to  the  adjoining  places  to  public 
ground.  R.  Eliezer  holds  them  to  be  the  same  as  public  ground, 
while  the  sages  say  that,  as  there  had  at  one  time  been  a  court 
there,  it  is  now  not  public  ground. 

MISHNA:  In  a  court  (the  corner  walls  of  which  had  fallen 
in  on  Sabbath  so)  that  (it)  has  been  laid  open  to  public  ground 
on  two  sides;  also  in  a  house  (which  by  a  similar  accident)  was 
laid  open  on  two  sides;  or  in  an  entry  the  cross  and  side  beam 
of  which  had  been  removed,  it  is  permitted  to  carry  things  on 
that  same  Sabbath ;  but  it  is  not  permitted  to  do  so  on  the  suc- 
ceeding Sabbaths.  Such  is  the  dictum  of  R.  Jehudah ;  but  R. 
Jose  said:  If  it  were  permitted  for  that  particular  Sabbath,  it 
would  also  be  permitted  for  the  future;  but  since  it  is  prohibited 
for  the  future,  it  is  also  prohibited  on  that  same  Sabbath. 

GEMARA:  How  is  the  case  with  the  walls  treated  of  in  the 
Mishna  ?  If  the  breach  caused  by  the  incavation  does  not 
exceed  ten  ells,  (it  is  regarded  as  a  door)  so  what  difference  docs 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  225 

it  make  upon  how  many  sides  the  court  has  been  laid  open  ?  If 
the  breach,  however,  exceeded  ten  ells,  then  it  would  be  the 
same  even  if  one  side  only  were  laid  open.  Said  Rabh :  The 
breach  does  not  exceed  ten  ells  but  in  a  corner  it  is  not  custom- 
ary to  make  a  door. 

"A  house  which  was  laid  open  on  both  sides,''  etc.  How 
would  it  be  if  the  house  were  laid  open  only  on  one  side  ?  We 
would  say,  that  the  edge  of  the  roof  is  supposed  to  reach  down 
to  the  bottom  and  thus  serve  as  a  substitute  for  the  wall  by 
application  of  the  law  of  "  Gud  Achith."  Cannot  the  same  rule 
apply  to  two  sides  of  a  house  ?  Let  the  edge  of  the  roof  on 
both  sides  be  supposed  to  reach  down  to  the  bottom  ?  Said  the 
disciples  of  Rabh  in  the  name  of  their  master:  "  The  Mishna 
refers  to  a  house  where  the  corner  walls  had  fallen  in  and  where 
the  roof  was  not  flat  but  slanting,  so  that  with  the  walls  it  also 
fell." 

Samuel  said:  "  In  the  case  of  a  court  the  Mishna  does  refer 
to  an  instance  where  the  breach  exceeded  ten  ells,  but  it  also 
states  that  the  walls  had  caved  in  on  both  sides  because  further, 
when  treating  of  a  house,  it  must  specify  two  sides,  hence  it 
does  so  also  when  courts  are  in  question."  Why  must  two 
sides  be  mentioned  in  the  instance  of  a  house  ?  Cannot  the 
edge  of  the  roof  be  supposed  to  reach  down  to  the  bottom  of 
both  walls  ?  Then  again  does  Samuel  hold  to  the  supposition, 
that  the  edge  of  the  roof  reaches  to  the  bottom  of  the  wall  ? 
Was  it  not  taught  that  concerning  a  gallery  in  a  valley,  Rabh 
said,  it  is  permitted  to  carry  throughout  the  whole  extent  of  the 
valley,  because  the  edges  of  the  gallery  are  supposed  to  reach 
down  to  the  ground  and  thus  form  a  partition  for  the  entire  val- 
ley, whereas  Samuel  maintained  that  this  supposition  cannot  be 
considered  and  hence  it  is  only  permitted  to  carry  for  a  distance 
of  four  ells  ?  This  would  not  present  a  difficulty,  for  in  that 
case  Samuel  maintains,  that  the  edges  of  the  gallery  must  not  be 
supposed  to  reach  down  to  the  ground  because  there  must  be 
four  distinct  partitions,  but  where  only  three  are  necessary  he 
would  admit  the  feasibility  of  such  a  supposition.  The  difficulty 
concerning  the  two  sides  of  the  house  where  the  breach  measured 
over  ten  ells  still  remains!  In  the  same  manner  as  the  disciples 
of  Rabh  referred  to  a  house  where  the  corner  walls  had  fallen  in 
together  with  their  slanting  roof,  Samuel  may  refer  to  a  house, 
the  corner  walls  of  which  had  sustained  a  breach  four  ells  in 
width  on  each  corner,  or  eight  ells  in  all,  and  five  ells  in  length 
VOL.  III. — 15 


226  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

on  one  side,  and  five  ells  and  a  trifle  on  the  other  side,  or 
slightly  over  ten  ells  in  all.  Hence  it  would  be  necessary  to  sup- 
pose that  the  edges  of  the  roof  reach  down  on  four  sides  of  the 
breach  two  in  width  and  two  in  length  and  that  would  be  con- 
trary to  the  theory  of  Samuel ! 

Why  does  Samuel  not  hold  with  Rabh  ?  Because  the  Mishna 
does  not  mention  a  slanting  roof  and  Rabh  does  not  hold  with 
Samuel  because  he  (Rabh,  as  we  have  seen  in  the  instance  of  the 
gallery  in  the  valley)  permits  of  the  supposition,  that  the  edges 
of  a  gallery  or  a  roof  can  reach  down  on  four  sides. 

"  R.  Jose  said :  If  it  were  permitted  for  that  particular  Sab- 
bath,'' etc.  The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question :  "  How  is 
R.  Jose's  dictum  to  be  construed  ?  Does  he  mean  to  permit  it 
entirely  or  to  prohibit  it  entirely?"  R.  Shesheth  as  well  as 
R.  Johanan  said:  "  He  means  to  prohibit  it  entirely."  We  also 
learned  to  this  effect  in  a  Boraitha,  viz.:  R.  Jose  said:  As  they 
are  not  permitted  to  carry  on  subsequent  Sabbaths,  so  are  they 
also  prohibited  to  do  so  on  that  particular  Sabbath. 

It  was  taught:  R.  Hyya  bar  Joseph  said,  the  Halakha  pre- 
vails according  to  R.  Jose,  and  Samuel  said:  "The  Halakha 
prevails  according  to  R.  Jehudah.  Did  Samuel  indeed  say  so  ?  " 
Did  not  R.  Jehudah  reply  to  R.  Hana  of  Bagdad  that  Samuel 
decreed:  "  The  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Jehudah  in  all 
cases  pertaining  to  Erubin,  but  not  where  partitions  are  con- 
cerned ? "  Said  R.  Anan:  "Samuel  himself  explained  to  me 
that  if  the  courts  were  laid  open  towards  unclaimed  ground  the 
Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Jehudah  but  if  they  were  laid 
open  towards  public  ground  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to 
R.  Jose." 

MISHNA:  If  an  attic  be  built  over  two  houses,  also  if 
bridges  are  open  at  both  ends,  it  is  lawful  to  carry  things  under- 
neath on  the  Sabbath.  Such  is  the  dictum  of  R.  Jehudah;  but 
the  sages  prohibit  it.  Moreover,  R.  Jehudah  further  said:  It  is 
lawful  to  combine,  by  means  of  an  Erub,  an  alley  that  is  open 
at  both  ends,  but  the  sages  prohibit  it. 

GEMARA:  Said  Rabba:  Do  not  say  that  the  reason  of  R. 
Jehudah  is  because  a  private  ground  requires  according  to  bibli- 
cal law  only  two  partitions,  but  because  he  holds  (Gud  Achith) 
that  the  ends  of  the  roofs  (in  this  case  of  the  attic  or  the 
bridge)  are  supposed  to  reach  down  to  the  bottom. 


CHAPTER    X. 

SUNDRY    REGULATIONS   CONCERNING    THE    SABBATH. 

MISHNA:  If  a  man  (on  Sabbath)  find  tephilin  (on  the  road), 
he  should  match  them  and  bring  them  (into  the  nearest  town 
or  village)  in  single  pairs  {i.e.,  one  for  the  head  and  one  for  the 
arm).  Rabbon  Gamaliel  said:  "  He  may  bring  in  two  pair  at  a 
time."  To  what  does  this  rule  apply?  To  old  tephilin  (phy- 
lacteries), but  if  they  be  new,  he  need  not  bring  them  in  (at  all). 
If  he  find  them  tied  up  in  pairs,  or  all  tied  together,  he  should 
remain  with  them  till  dark  and  then  bring  them  in.  In  times  of 
danger  (religious  persecutions),  however,  he  covers  them  up  and 
passes  on.  R.  Simeon  said:  He  should  hand  them  to  his  com- 
panion {i.e.,  the  man  standing  next  to  him),  who  in  turn  hands 
them  to  his  companion,  and  so  on  from  hand  to  hand  until  the 
outmost  court  is  reached.  So,  likewise,  his  child,  he  should 
hand  it  to  his  companion,  who  in  turn  hands  it  to  his  companion 
and  so  on  from  hand  to  hand,  even  (if  it  have  passed  through 
the  hands  of)  an  hundred  (men).  R.  Jehudah  said:  "  In  like 
manner,  a  man  may  pass  a  cask  of  wine  (which  he  has  found  on 
the  road  on  the  Sabbath)  to  his  companion,  and  he  in  turn  to 
his  companion  (and  so  on  from  hand  to  hand)  even  beyond  the 
legal  limits;  the  sages,  however,  objected :  "  The  cask  cannot  be 
conveyed  further  than  its  owners  have  the  right  to  walk." 

GEMARA :  He  may  only  carry  them  in  sittgle  pairs  ?  Shall 
we  assume  that  this  anonymous  Mishna  is  not  in  accordance 
with  R.  Meir,  who  decrees  (Tract  Sabbath,  page  257)  that  a 
man  may  clothe  himself  in  as  many  garments  as  he  chooses  ? 
Said  Rabba:  In  both  instances  the  decree  of  R.  Meir  is  based 
upon  the  custom  of  the  week-days  (when  a  man  may  also  put  on 
as  many  clothes  as  he  chooses),  and  as  the  above-mentioned 
Mishna  treats  of  "  saving  from  fire  "  the  Rabbis  permit  a  man  to 
wear  as  much  clothing  as  he  chooses.  In  this  instance,  how. 
ever,  where  there  is  no  danger,  (and  as  a  man  only  wears  one 
pair  of  tephilin  on  a  week-day,  hence  he  may  wear  only  one  pair 

227 


228  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

on  a  Sabbath).  Thus  this  Mishna  can  also  be  in  accordance 
with  the  decree  of  R.  Meir. 

"  Rabbon  Gamaliel  said :  He  may  bring  in  two  pair.''  What 
is  the  reason  of  R,  Gamaliel's  dictum  ?  Does  he  hold,  that  on 
Sabbath  also  tephilin  should  be  worn  ?  Then  he  should  only- 
have  permitted  one  pair  to  be  brought  in  ?  If,  however,  he  holds 
that  on  Sabbath  tephilin  should  not  be  worn  and  it  is  merely  to 
save  the  tephilin  that  it  was  permitted  for  a  man  to  wear  them 
on  his  head  and  arm,  why  does  he  only  permit  two  pair  at  a 
time;  he  could  have  permitted  more  ?  Said  R.  Samuel  bar  R. 
Itz'hak:  "  On  the  head  there  is  only  room  for  two."  On  the 
hand,  however,  there  is  room  for  but  one  ?  As  there  is  room 
for  two  on  the  head,  according  to  R.  Samuel,  there  is  room  for 
two  also  on  the  arm. 

Shall  we  say  that  the  first  Tana  of  the  Mishna  differs  with 
Rabbon  Gamaliel  upon  the  point  advanced  by  R.  Samuel  bar 
R.  Itz'hak  maintaining  that  there  is  only  room  for  one  on  the 
head  or  arm  while  R.  Gamaliel  holds  there  is  room  for  two  ? 
Nay;  all  agree  that  there  is  room  for  two,  but  they  differ  as  to 
the  legality  of  wearing  tephilin  on  the  Sabbath.  The  first  Tana 
holds  that  they  should  be  worn  on  Sabbath,  while  Rabbon 
Gamaliel  holds  that  they  must  not. 

Who  of  the  Tanaim  ever  held,  that  on  Sabbath  tephilin  must 
be  worn  (in  order  that  it  might  be  said  the  first  Tana  of  the 
Mishna  is  in  accordance  with  his  opinion)  ?  That  was  R.  Aqiba; 
as  we  have  learned:  It  is  written  [Exod.  xiii.  lo]  :  "  And  thou 
shalt  keep  this  ordinance  in  its  season  from  year  to  year."  And 
elsewhere  [Tract  Menachoth]  where  there  is  a  dispute  between 
R.  Jose  the  Galilean  and  R.  Aqiba,  it  concludes  with  the  state- 
ment that  R.  Aqiba  holds  the  wearing  of  tephilin  on  Sabbath  to 
be  legal.  Does  R.  Aqiba  indeed  hold  that  Sabbath  is  (also)  a 
proper  time  for  the  wearing  of  tephilin  ?  Have  we  not  learned 
in  another  Boraitha  as  follows:  R.  Aqiba  said:  "Lest  we 
should  assume  that  it  is  required  to  wear  tephilin  on  Sabbath 
or  on  festivals,  it  is  written  [ibid.  9]  :  '  And  it  shall  be  unto  thee 
for  a  sign  upon  thy  hand,'  which  means,  that  tephilin  should  be 
worn,  when  a  sign  is  required,  but  Sabbath  and  festivals  being 
signs  in  themselves,  it  is  not  necessary  to  have  another."  There- 
fore we  must  say,  that  the  first  Tana  of  our  Mishna  does  not 
hold  according  to  R.  Aqiba  but  in  accordance  with  the  Tana  of 
the  following  Boraitha:  "  He  who  stays  awake  at  night  may 
either  wear  tephilin  or  not,  so  said  R.  Nathan ;  Jonathan  Qitoni, 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  229 

however,  said:  *  It  is  not  allowed  to  wear  tephilin  at  night.'  " 
If  R.  Nathan,  then,  holds  that  tephilin  may  be  worn  at  night,  he 
also  holds,  that  they  may  be  worn  on  Sabbath.  This  is  no  evi- 
dence !  It  may  be  that  he  holds  that  they  may  be  worn  at  night, 
but  not  on  Sabbath ;  for  have  we  not  learned  that  R.  Aqiba  held 
the  night  to  be  a  proper  time  for  wearing  tephilin,  but  not  so 
the  Sabbath  ? 

We  must  say,  therefore,  that  the  first  Tana  of  our  Mishna 
is  in  accord  with  the  opinion  of  the  Tana  of  the  following  Bora- 
itha:  "  Michal  the  daughter  of  Qushai  used  to  wear  tephilin, 
and  the  sages  did  not  object  to  it ;  the  wife  of  Jonah  would  go 
to  Jerusalem  for  the  festivals  and  the  sages  did  not  object  to 
that  "  [whence  we  see  that  the  duty  of  wearing  tephilin  is  a 
(positive)  commandment  which  is  not  dependent  upon  the  time, 
i.e.^  if  it  said,  that  they  must  not  be  worn  at  night  or  on  Sab- 
bath, the  law  would  be  dependent  upon  the  time,  and  that  duty 
which  is  dependent  upon  time  need  not  be  performed  by  women. 
If  such  were  the  case  then  the  sages  would  have  prevented 
Michal  from  wearing  tephilin  because  of  the  commandment : 
"  Thou  shalt  not  add  to  the  law  "].  Hence  we  see  that  tephilin 
may  be  worn  on  Sabbath,  according  to  the  sages. 

It  may  be,  however,  that  the  sages  hold  to  the  opinion  of 
R.  Jose,  who  said,  that  while  the  laying  of  hands  upon  sacrificial 
offerings  is  only  obligatory  for  men,  still,  women,  when  bringing 
their  offerings,  may,  if  they  choose,  perform  that  duty,  and  the 
proof  that  the  sages  hold  thus  is  that  when  the  wife  of  Jonah 
would  go  to  Jerusalem  for  the  festivals,  a  duty  which  no  one 
disputes  is  entirely  dependent  upon  the  time,  the  sages  had  no 
objection.  Therefore  we  must  say  that  the  first  Tana  of  our 
Mishna  is  in  accord  with  the  opinion  of  another  Tana,  viz.  :  the 
Tana  of  the  following  Tosephta:  "  One  who  finds  tephilin  on 
the  Sabbath  should  bring  them  in  single  pairs,  whether  the 
finder  be  a  man  or  a  woman,  whether  the  tephilin  be  old  or  new. 
Such  is  the  dictum  of  R.  Meir.  R.  Jehudah,  however,  prohibits 
new  tephilin  to  be  brought  in  but  permits  old."  Now  we  see 
that  they  differ  only  as  regards  new  and  old  tephilin,  but  not  as 
to  whether  a  man  or  woman  may  bring  them  in,  whence  we  see 
that  the  duty  of  tephilin  is  not  dependent  upon  the  time.  Then 
the  question  again  arises,  "  does  not  this  Tana  hold  in  accord- 
ance with  the  opinion  of  R.  Jose  ?  "  This  would  not  be  consist- 
ent; for  neither  R.  Meir  nor  R.  Jehudah  are  in  accord  with  R. 
Jose.     R.  Meir  is  not  in  accordance  with   R.  Jose  as  we  have 


230  THE    BABYLOxNIAN    TALMUD. 

learned  in  a  Mishna  (Tract  Rosh  Hashana):  "  One  must  not  pre- 
vent children  from  blowing  the  cornet."  From  this  we  see  that 
only  children  are  not  to  be  prevented,  but  women  are,  and  as 
the  above  Mishna  is  anonymous  and  it  is  traditional  that  all 
anonymous  Mishnaoth  are  in  accordance  with  R.  Meir,  we  see 
that  he  (R.  Meir)  is  not  in  accordance  with  R.  Jose,  and  that  R. 
Jehudah  is  not  in  accordance  with  R.  Jose  is  to  be  seen  in  the 
following  Boraitha  in  Siphra:  It  is  written  [Levit.  i.  4] :  "  And 
he  shall  lay  his  hand  upon  the  head  of  the  burnt-offering,"  this  is 
a  law  which  applies  to  a  man  but  not  to  a  woman.  For  the  rea- 
son that  this  dictum  is  by  anonymous  teachers  we,  in  accordance 
with  what  we  have  learned  elsewhere,  ascribe  it  to  R.  Jehudah. 

R.  Elazar  said :  If  a  man  found  whole  strands  of  wool  dyed 
purple-blue,  the  same  as  is  used  for  show-threads  {vide  Numbers 
XV.  38)  in  the  market  and  it  is  not  known  whether  they  were 
intended  for  the  preparation  of  show-threads,  they  are  not  suit- 
able for  such  purpose,  but  if  he  found  threads  of  that  kind  of 
wool  they  are  suitable  for  that  purpose.  Why  should  the 
strands  not  be  suitable,  because  it  is  possible  that  they  were 
intended  for  other  purposes,  e.g.,  for  garments  ?  Why  not  assume 
the  same  to  be  the  case  with  threads  ?  The  threads  are  referred 
to  as  being  already  twisted  into  the  form  required  for  show- 
threads.  Even  so,  it  might  be  that  they  were  intended  for  fringes 
on  a  garment  ?  Nay;  the  threads  mentioned  were  already  cut  to 
a  size  suitable  for  show-threads  and  a  man  would  not  go  to  the 
trouble  of  preparing  them  so  carefully  if  they  were  to  be  used 
for  any  other  purpose. 

Said  Rabha:  And  what  about  tephilin  ?  The  Mishna  dis- 
tinctly states,  that  only  old  tephilin  may  be  brought  in,  because 
of  the  certainty  that  they  are  actually  tephilin,  but  as  for  new 
ones,  even  though  they  be  made  exactly  like  tephilin,  they  must 
not  be  brought  in  for  fear  that  they  be  only  ordinary  amulets. 
Hence  we  see  that  they  apprehended  lest  a  man  take  the  trouble 
to  prepare  amulets  exactly  like  tephilin  (why  should  he  not  do 
so  with  the  blue  thread  for  show-threads)  ?  Said  R.  Zera  to  his 
son  Ahabha:  "  Go  and  tell  them,  that  I  have  found  another 
Boraitha  which  explicitly  teaches  that  if  the  threads  were  found 
cut  off  to  the  required  size  of  the  show-threads,  they  are  suitable 
for  that  purpose,  for  a  man  will  not  go  to  the  trouble  of  cut- 
ting off  the  threads  for  any  other  purpose."  Rejoined  Rabha: 
"  And  if  Ahabha  taught  that  Boraitha,  did  he  then  encircle  it 
with  jewels  ?      Our  Mishna  states  explicitly,  that  only  old  teph- 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  231 

ilin,  but  not  new,  may  be  brought,  which  is  proof  that  there  is 
fear,  lest  a  man  go  to  the  trouble  of  making  amulets  exactly  like 
tephilin."  "  Therefore,"  he  continued,  "  whether  a  man  would 
take  the  trouble  (to  cut  off  the  threads)  or  not  is  merely  a  differ- 
ence of  opinion  between  Tanaim  as  we  have  already  learned  in 
the  Boraitha  above:  '  R.  Meir  permitted  the  bringing  in  of  both 
new  and  old  tephilin,  while  R.  Jehudah  permitted  only  old  tephi- 
lin to  be  brought,'  for  the  latter  held  that  a  man  would  take 
the  trouble  to  make  amulets  exactly  like  tephilin  while  the 
former  held  that  he  would  not." 

Now,  if  the  father  ot  Samuel  and  the  son  of  R.  Itz'hak 
explained  the  terms  in  the  Mishna  "  old  tephilin  "  to  signify 
that  the  straps  of  the  tephilin  had  already  been  attached  and  the 
legal  knot  made  therein,  and  "new  tephilin"  to  signify  that 
the  straps  had  already  been  attached  but  the  legal  knot  had  not 
yet  been  made,  the  question  whether  a  man  would  take  the 
trouble  to  imitate  the  genuine  tephilin  falls  to  the  ground,  and 
the  issue  is  merely  :  One  holds,  that  if  the  tephilin  were  already 
fit  to  be  worn  they  may  be  brought  in,  while  the  other  holds, 
that  even  if  they  were  not  quite  prepared  they  may  also  be 
brought  in. 

R.  Hisda  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  "  If  one  buys  tephilin 
of  a  man  who  is  not  an  expert,  he  must  examine  two  tephilin 
used  for  the  arm  and  one  used  for  the  head  or  two  of  the  head 
and  one  of  the  arm  (and  if  he  finds  them  suitable,  he  may  pur- 
chase more)."  Now,  then,  let  us  see!  If  he  purchases  the 
tephilin  of  one  man,  what  reason  is  there  in  examining  two  used 
for  the  arm  and  one  used  for  the  head  ;  why  not  examine  three  for 
the  arm  or  three  for  the  head  ?  And  if  he  purchases  the  tephilin 
of  several  men,  he  should  examine  three  of  each  man ! 

R.  Hisda  refers  to  a  man  who  buys  tephilin  from  one  expert, 
but  he  must  examine  the  tephilin  for  both  head  and  arm  in 
order  to  see  that  both  kinds  are  properly  inscribed  and  it  matters 
not  whether  he  examine  two  for  the  head  and  one  for  the  arm  or 
one  for  the  head  and  two  for  the  arm. 

Did  R.  Kahana,  however,  not  teach,  that  he  should  examine 
only  one  each  for  the  head  and  arm  ?  This  is  in  accordance 
with  the  opinion  of  Rabbi,  who  holds,  that  in  order  to  firmly 
establish  (the  fact)  that  the  man  is  an  expert  or  where  any  other 
proof  must  be  brought,  two  only  are  necessary.  If  this  is 
according  to  Rabbi,  how  shall  we  explain,  the  final  clause  of 
the  Boraitha  stating,  that  so  shall  the  second  bunch  of  tephilin 


232  THE    BABYLOiNIAN    TALMUD. 

be  examined  and  likewise  the  third  ?  According  to  Rabbi 
why  is  a  third  required  ?  When  bunches  of  tephilin  are  con- 
cerned,  Rabbi  also  admits  that  they  should  all  be  examined, 
because  the  expert  probably  receives  the  bunches  from  different 
makers  and  for  that  reason  two  of  each  bunch,  one  for  the  head 
and  one  for  the  arm,  should  be  examined.  Then  why  only  three  ? 
Four  or  five  should  be  examined  ?  Such  is  really  the  case,  any 
amount  should  be  examined  but  three  only  are  mentioned  as  a 
rule,  that  in  this  instance  the  theory  of  Hazakah^  does  not 
apply. 

He  should  remain  with  them  till  dark  and  then  bring  them 
in.''  Why  not  bring  them  in  in  single  pairs  ?  Said  R.  Itz'hak 
the  son  of  R.  Jehudah:  "  My  father  explained  the  Mishna  thus: 
If  the  man  can  bring  them  all  in,  pair  by  pair,  before  darkness 
sets  in,  he  may  do  so,  but  if  he  cannot,  i.e.,  if  some  would  still 
remain,  by  the  time  it  gets  dark,  he  should  rather  remain  with 
them  until  it  becomes  dark  and  then  bring  them  all  in  at  once." 

"  In  times  of  danger,  however,  he  covers  them  up,""  etc.  Have 
we  not  learned  that  in  times  of  danger  he  should  carry  them  less 
than  four  ells  at  a  time  ?  Said  Rabh:  "  This  presents  no  dififi- 
culty.  Our  Mishna  treats  of  times  of  danger  arising  from  relig- 
ious persecutions  by  the  Gentiles  while  in  the  Boraitha  the 
danger  is  supposed  to  be  that  arising  from  robbers."  Said 
Abayi  t  to  him :  "  Thou  sayest  that  our  Mishna  treats  of  danger 
arising  from  religious  persecutions,  how  then  will  the  latter  clause 
of  the  Mishna  correspond  with  this?  R.  Simeon  said:  '  He 
should  hand  them  to  his  companion,'  etc.  Would  this  not 
involve  still  greater  danger  ?  "  Answered  Rabh:  "  The  Mishna 
is  not  complete  and  should  read  thus:  *  In  times  of  danger, 
however,  he  covers  them  up  and  passes  on.'  When  is  this  the 
case  ?  When  the  danger  arises  from  religious  persecutions,  but 
if  it  be  dangerous  on  account  of  robbers  he  should  carry  them 
for  a  distance  of  four  ells  at  a  time. "  R.  Simeon,  however,  said  : 
"  (In  the  latter  case),  he  should  hand  them  to  his  companion," 
etc. 

Upon  what  point  do  R.  Simeon  and  the  first  Tana  differ  ? 
The  first  Tana  holds  that  the  method  adopted  by  R.  Simeon 
would  be  too  ostentatious  and  would  seem  like  a  violation  of  the 


*  The  explanation  of  the  Hazakah  will  be  found  in  section  Jurisprudence. 
f  This  Abayi  is  presumably  Abayi  the  elder,  as  the  Abayi  generally  quoted  lived 
at  a  later  period  than  Rabh  and  could  not  have  seen  him. 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  233 

Sabbath,  whereas  carrying  for  a  distance  of  less  than  four  ells  is 
by  no  means  objectionable.  R.  Simeon,  however,  holds,  that 
when  a  man  is  obliged  to  carry  things  for  a  distance  of  less  than 
four  ells  at  a  time,  he  might  forget  and  carry  for  a  distance  of 
four  ells  or  more,  whereas  handing  the  things  from  one  man  to 
another  is  perfectly  safe. 

"  So,  likewise,  his  child,''  etc.  How  came  his  child  on  the 
field  or  on  the  road  ?  The  disciples  of  Menasseh  taught :  "  This 
refers  to  a  child  that  was  born  on  the  road  (or  in  the  field)." 
What  does  R.  Simeon  mean  to  say  by  "  even  if  it  pass  through 
(the  hand  of)  an  hundred  ? "  He  means  to  tell  us,  that  although 
passing  it  through  many  hands  is  not  good  for  the  child,  still  it 
is  preferable  to  carrying  it  for  less  than  four  ells  at  a  time. 

' '  R.  Jehudah  said :  In  like  manjter  a  man  may  pass  a  cask, 
etc.  Does  not  R.  Jehudah  hold  in  accordance  with  the  Mishna 
elsewhere  [Tract  Beitza]  that  an  animal  may  be  led  or  vessels 
may  be  carried  only  as  far  as  the  owner  thereof  is  entitled  to 
walk  ?  Said  Rabha:  R.  Jehudah  in  the  Mishna  refers  to  a  cask 
which  had  acquired  the  right  to  its  Sabbath-rest  at  the  place 
where  it  was  situated,  but  the  contents  of  which  had  not 
acquired  such  right,  and  the  cask  becomes  of  no  consequence  to 
the  contents. 

R.  Joseph  objected:  We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  R. 
Jehudah  said:  "  When  a  caravan  was  encamped  a  man  may  hand 
a  cask  to  his  companion,  he  in  turn  to  his  companion,  and  so 
on."  Thus  we  see,  that  this  is  said  only  of  a  caravan  but  not 
under  ordinary  circumstances  ?  Hence  R.  Joseph  explained, 
that  the  dictum  of  R.  Jehudah  in  the  Mishna  also  applies  to  a 
caravan  only. 

MISHNA:  If  a  man  reads  in  a  scroll  (of  sacred  scriptures) 
on  the  threshold  of  the  house,  and  the  scroll  slips  out  of  his 
hand,  he  may  draw  it  back  again.  If  a  man  reads  in  a  scroll  of 
the  scriptures  on  the  roof  of  his  house  and  the  scroll  slips  out 
of  his  hand,  he  may,  if  it  has  not  rolled  down  for  a  distance  of 
ten  spans  (from  public  ground),  draw  it  up  again;*  but  if  it 
reached  down  to  a  distance  of  ten  spans  (from  public  ground) 
he  should  turn  the  written  side  over  (downwards  to  the  wall),  and 
leave  it  there  till  nightfall.  R.  Jehudah  said:  "  If  the  scroll  be 
but  the  breadth  of  a  needle  from  the  ground,  the  man  may  roll 


*  It  must  be  borne  in  mind  that  the  scrolls  were  rolled  on  two  separate  rollers, 
and  were  unwound  from  one  and  wound  on  the  other  as  the  reading  progressed. 


234  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

it  back  again  to  himself."  R.  Simeon  said:  Even  though  it  be 
completely  on  the  ground,  the  man  may  roll  it  back  to  himself, 
for  no  ordinance  regarding  the  Sabbath-rest  supersedes  the  ven- 
eration due  to  sacred  scriptures. 

GEMARA:  What  was  the  threshold  ?  Shall  we  say  that  the 
threshold  was  private  ground  and  the  space  before  it  public 
ground,  and  no  precautionary  measure  is  ordained  which  would 
forestall  his  picking  up  the  entire  scroll  if  it  fell  into  that  public 
ground  ?  Hence  we  must  assume,  that  this  is  in  accordance  with 
the  opinion  of  R.  Simeon,  who  holds  that  no  ordinance  regard- 
ing the  Sabbath-rest  supersedes  the  veneration  due  to  sacred 
scriptures.  If,  then,  the  first  clause  of  the  Mishna  is  according 
to  R.  Simeon,  then  comes  the  dictum  of  R.  Jehudah,  then  again 
the  dictum  of  R.  Simeon,  it  is  obvious,  that  the  first  and  last 
clauses  of  the  Mishna  are  in  accordance  with  the  opinion  of  R. 
Simeon,  while  the  intervening  clauses  are  R.  Jehudah's  ?  Said 
R.  Jehudah:  "  Yea,  so  it  is."  Abayi,  however,  said:  "  The 
threshold  referred  to,  was  not  private  ground  but  unclaimed 
ground,  and  the  space  before  it  was  public  ground.  If  the  scroll 
had  rolled  out  into  that  public  ground  entirely  but  for  a  distance 
of  four  ells  only,  the  man  would  not  be  culpable  even  if  he 
picked  it  up  and  brought  it  back  to  the  threshold,  hence  in  this 
case  it  was  allowed  him  to  bring  it  back  to  commence  with ;  but 
if  it  fell  for  a  distance  of  more  than  four  ells,  he  would,  should 
he  bring  it  back,  be  culpable,  because  he  would  have  carried 
more  than  four  ells  in  public  ground ;  hence  it  was  not  allowed 
under  those  circumstances  to  bring  it  back  in  the  first  place." 

*'  If  a  mafi  reads,  etc.,  on  the  roof.''  The  Mishna  teaches,  that 
he  should  turn  the  written  side  of  the  scriptures  over!  Is  this 
then  allowed  ?  Have  we  not  learned  in  a  Boraitha,  that  the 
scribes  who  write  scriptures,  tephilin,  or  Mezuzoth  were  not  per- 
mitted to  turn  over  the  vellum  in  order  to  prevent  it  from 
becoming  dirty,  but  must  cover  it  up  with  a  cloth  ?  Where  this 
can  be  done  it  should  be  done,  but  where  it  is  impossible,  rather 
than  desecrate  the  sacred  scriptures,  they  should  be  turned  over. 

If  it  fell  from  the  roof  and  remained  hanging  alongside  of  the 
wall,  it  did  not  rest  in  any  place  because  the  wall  is  perpendicular, 
and  it  is  necessary  that  it  should  actually  rest  on  some  object  ? 
The  Mishna  is  in  accordance  with  the  opinion  of  R.  Jehudah  and 
is  not  complete  but  should  read  thus:  He  should  turn  the  written 
side  over.  When  is  this  to  be  done  ?  If  the  wall  was  a  slanting 
wall;  but  if  it  was  straight,  he  may  draw  it  back  even   if  it  be 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  235 

less  than  three  spans  from  the  ground,  because  R.  Jehudah  said: 
"  If  the  scroll  be  but  the  breadth  of  a  needle  from  the  ground, 
the  man  may  roll  it  back  again  to  himself. ' '  Why  so  ?  Because 
it  is  necessary,  that  it  should  rest  on  some  object. 

MISHNA:  On  a  ledge  outside  a  window  it  is  permitted  to 
place  vessels  and  to  remove  them  therefrom  on  the  Sabbath. 

GEMARA :  Where  does  the  ledge  project  ?  Shall  we  assume, 
that  it  projects  into  public  ground  ?  Then  there  is  fear,  lest  they 
fall  to  the  ground  and  the  man  might  bring  them  back  into  the 
house.  Or  shall  we  say  that  it  projects  into  public  ground,  then 
it  is  self-evident,  that  it  is  permitted.  Said  Abayi:  The  ledge  is 
supposed  to  project  into  public  ground,  but  the  vessels  which 
may  be  placed  are  brittle,  and  hence,  should  they  fall,  they  will 
be  broken  and  there  is  no  fear  that  they  will  be  brought  back 
into  the  house. 

We  have  also  learned  to  this  effect  in  a  Boraitha :  On  a  ledge 
outside  a  window,  which  projects  into  public  ground,  may  be 
placed  bowls,  goblets,  jugs,  and  glasses,  and  the  whole  wall 
down  to  within  ten  spans  from  the  ground  may  be  used,  and  if 
there  be  another  ledge  underneath  (but  over  ten  spans  from  the 
ground)  the  wall  underneath  the  lower  ledge  may  be  used 
entirely,  but  the  upper  ledge  must  only  be  used  to  the  extent 
that  it  faces  the  window. 

MISHNA:  A  man  may  stand  in  private  ground  and  move 
things  that  are  in  public  ground ;  or  he  may  stand  in  public 
ground  and  move  things  that  are  in  private  ground,  provided, 
that  he  does  not  move  them  beyond  four  ells.  A  man  must 
not,  standing  in  private  ground,  make  water  in  public  ground 
on  (Sabbath),  nor  may  he  standing  in  public  ground  make  water 
in  private  ground.  In  like  manner  he  must  not,  standing  in  one 
(kind  of)  ground  spit  into  another.  R.  Jehudah  said :  He 
who  (when  coughing)  has  brought  up  phlegm  into  his  mouth, 
must  not  go  four  ells  before  expectorating. 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Joseph:  If  he  did  so  (meaning  if  he 
expectorated,  etc.)  he  is  culpable  and  liable  for  a  sin-ofTering. 
But  is  it  not  necessary  in  the  first  place,  that  there  be  a  transfer 
from  a  certain  fixed  place  and  that  the  article  transferred  rest  ir^ 
another  fixed  place  of  four  ells  square  ?  Yea,  the  intention  of 
the  man,  however,  brings  about  that  condition.  For  if  this 
were  not  so,  how  could  Rabha  have  said  elsewhere,  that  if  a  man 
threw  a  thing  and  it  fell  into  the  mouth  of  a  dog  or  into  a  fur- 
nace, he  is  culpable  ?     Is  it  not  necessary  that  it  rest  in  a  space 


236  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

of  four  ells  ?  Therefore  we  must  say,  that  the  intention  of  the 
man  is  equal  to  the  deed  and  such  is  also  the  case  in  this 
instance. 

"  R.  Jehudah  said :  He  who  has  brought  up  pJilegm,''  etc. 
Said  Resh  Lakish :  If  a  man  expectorated  in  the  presence  of  his 
master,  he  deserves  to  be  killed,  for  it  is  written  [Proverbs  viii. 
36] :  "  All  those  that  hate  me,  love  death."  Do  not  read  "  All 
those  that  hate  me"  but  "  All  those  who  make  me  hateful" 
(see  Sabbath,  page  236). 

MISHNA:  A  man  must  not,  standing  in  private  ground 
drink  in  public  ground,  nor  may  he,  standing  in  public  ground, 
drink  in  private  ground,  unless  he  places  his  head  and  the 
greater  part  of  his  body,  within  the  place  in  which  he  drinks. 
Such  is  also  the  law  regarding  a  wine-press. 

GEMARA:  Is  the  first  part  of  the  Mishna  preceding  our 
Mishna  in  accordance  with  the  opinion  of  the  sages,  and  our 
Mishna  in  accordance  with  R.  Meir  ?  Said  R.  Joseph:  The 
preceding  Mishna  refers  to  objects  which  are  not  of  absolute 
importance  while  this  Mishna  refers  to  objects  which  are  a 
necessity  to  the  man ;  hence  the  precautionary  measure  forestall- 
ing the  probability  of  the  man's  carrying  them  into  the  other 
ground  is  instituted. 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question:  "What  is  the  law 
regarding  unclaimed  ground,  i.e.,  if  the  man  stood  in  private  or 
pubhc  ground  and  drinks  out  of  unclaimed  ground  and  vice 
versa?''  Said  Abayi:  "The  same  law  applies  to  unclaimed 
ground."  Rejoined  Rabha:  This  ordinance  is  merely  a  precau- 
tionary measure !  Shall  we  then  institute  one  precautionary 
measure  as  a  safeguard  to  another?"  Answered  Abayi:  "I 
deduce  this  from  the  further  teaching  of  the  Mishna  stating, 
'  Such  is  also  the  law  regarding  a  wine-press  ' ;  for  the  wine- 
press must  needs  be  considered  unclaimed  ground,  as  in  the 
event  of  its  being  private  ground,  why  should  the  repetition  be 
made  ?"  and  Rabha  replied:  "  The  law  regarding  a  wine-press 
is  not  for  the  sake  of  the  observance  of  the  Sabbath;  but  it 
means  to  imply,  that  a  man  may  drink  the  wine  made  at  the 
press  without  waiting  for  the  tithes  to  be  acquitted  thereof." 
Thus  also  said  R.  Shesheth,  as  we  have  learned  in  a  Mishna: 
A  man  may  drink  from  a  wine-press,  whether  he  mix  the  must 
with  warm  or  cold  water,  and  need  not  first  acquit  the  tithes 
thereof.  Such  is  the  dictum  of  R.  Meir;  but  R.  Elazar  ben 
Zadok  prohibits  this,  if  the  man  mixes  the  must  with  water, 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  237 

because  by  that  act  he  turns  it  into  a  beverage.  The  sages, 
however,  hold  that  if  he  mix  it  with  warm  water  he  turns  it  into 
a  beverage  and  is  culpable,  but  if  he  mix  it  with  cold  water  he 
is  not  culpable  as  it  is  not  considered  a  beverage,  for  he  can, 
after  quenching  his  thirst,  pour  it  back  into  the  press. 

MISHNA:  A  man  may  catch  water  dropping  from  a  spout 
on  the  roof,  within  ten  hands  from  the  ground ;  but  from  a 
projecting  spout  he  may  drink  in  any  manner  (he  chooses). 

GEMARA:  He  may  catch  it  with  his  hands  but  with  the 
mouth  it  is  not  allowed !  Why  so  ?  Said  R.  Na'hman  :  This  is 
the  case  if  the  spout  was  less  than  three  spans  from  the  roof,  in 
which  it  is  considered  as  the  roof  itself,  and  consequently  it  is 
private  ground.  If  he  should  catch  the  water  with  his  mouth 
it  is  like  carrying  things  from  private  into  public  ground. 

We  have  also  learned  to  this  effect  in  a  Boraitha :  A  man  may 
stand  in  private  ground,  raise  his  hand  upwards  of  ten  spans  to 
the  spout  which  is  less  than  three  spans  from  the  roof  and  drink 
the  water  out  of  his  hand;  but  he  must  not  place  a  cask  or  his 
mouth  underneath  the  spout. 

' '  But  from  a  projecting  spout,  he  7nay  drink  in  any  manner. 
We  have  learned  in   a   Boraitha,  that   if  such   spout   was    four 
spans  square  he  must  not  do  this ;  for  it  is  regarded  as  carrying 
from  one  (kind  of)  ground  into  another. 

MISHNA:  Should  a  well  standing  in  public  ground  have  an 
enclosure  ten  spans  high,  it  is  lawful  to  draw  water  therefrom 
(on  the  Sabbath)  through  an  aperture  (window)  that  is  above  it. 
On  a  dunghill,  ten  spans  high,  standing  in  public  ground,  it  is 
lawful  to  pour  water  through  any  aperture  above  it. 

GEMARA:  Where  is  the  well  supposed  to  be  situated  ?  Is 
it  near  the  wall,  why  are  ten-span-high  enclosures  necessary  ? 
Said  R.  Huna:  "  A  well  is  referred  to  that  is  more  than  four 
spans  distant  from  the  wall,  in  which  case  a  ten-span-high 
enclosure  is  necessary,  otherwise  the  water  would  be  carried 
from  private  into  private  ground  by  way  of  public  ground."  R. 
Johanan,  however,  said:  The  well  might  have  been  even  near 
the  wall,  but  the  Mishna  intends  to  teach  us,  that  the  well  with 
its  enclosures  together  are  accounted  to  be  ten  spans  (and  hence 
a  partition  which  legalizes  the  private  ground). 

"  On  a  dunghill,  ten  spans  high,"  etc.  Is  there  no  apprehen- 
sion that  the  dunghill  will  be  decreased  (by  removing  part  of  it, 
in  which  case  it  will  be  less  than  ten  spans  and  still  they  will 
continue  to  pour  water  on  it)  ?     Did  not  Rabhin  bar  R.  Ada 


238  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

say  in  the  name  of  R.  Itz'hak:  "  It  happened  that  concerning 
an  entry  which  opened  into  the  sea  and  into  a  dunghill  Rabbi 
would  neither  declare  the  entry  lawful  nor  unlawful.  He  would 
not  declare  it  lawful,  because  it  might  occur,  that  the  sea  should 
recede  and  leave  the  land  dry  and  also  that  the  dunghill  might  be 
removed ;  yet  he  would  not  declare  it  unlawful  because  the  sea 
and  the  dunghill  were  still  partitions  for  the  time  being  "?  This 
presents  no  difificulty.  In  the  case  quoted  by  Rabhin  the  dung- 
hill was  the  property  of  an  individual  and  he  could  have  removed 
it,  but  in  the  case  treated  of  in  the  Mishna  the  dunghill  is  public 
property  and  there  is  no  fear  of  its  being  removed.  Mareimar 
erected  partitions  for  all  the  entries  in  Sura  facing  the  sea  out  of 
fish-nets,  saying:  There  is  danger  lest  the  sea  recede  and  leave 
the  land  in  front  of  the  entries  dry.* 

MISHNA:  Beneath  a  tree,  the  branches  of  which  droop  and 
cover  the  ground  so  that  the  tips  of  its  twigs  be  within  three 
spans  from  the  ground,  it  is  lawful  to  carry  things  (on  the  Sab- 
bath). Should  the  roots  of  the  tree  project  three  spans  high 
out  of  the  ground  it  is  not  permitted  to  sit  upon  them. 

GEMARA:  R.  Huna  the  son  of  R.  Jehoshua  said:  "  If  the 
space  occupied  by  the  tree  is  of  more  than  two  saahs'  capacity, 
it  is  not  permitted  to  carry  things  therein."  Why  so  ?  Because 
an  abode  beneath  a  tree  is  not  considered  an  actual  abode  but  is 
merely  used  by  such  as  wish  to  avail  themselves  of  the  fresh  air, 
and  wherever  such  is  the  case  it  is  not  permitted  to  carry  within 
a  space  of  more  than  two  saahs'  capacity. 

"  Should  its  roots  project  three  spans,''  etc.  It  was  taught: 
"  If  the  roots  of  a  tree  projected  more  than  three  spans  and 
sloped  to  a  lesser  height,  Rabba  permits  their  being  used  because 
the  ends  of  the  roots  are  less  than  three  spans  from  the  ground 
and  hence  equal  to  the  ground  itself,  whereas  R.  Shesheth  pro- 
hibits their  use  because  he  claims,  that  the  beginning  of  the  roots 
being  over  three  spans  from  the  ground  cannot  be  used  and  the 
ends  being  part  and  parcel  of  the  beginning  are  still  subject  to 
the  same  prohibition." 

If  the  roots,  however,  grew  in  the  shape  of  a  rolling  sea, 
those  protruding  highest  are  according  to  the  opinion  of  all  pro- 
hibited to  be  used.  Those  growing  lowest  are  in  everybody's 
opinion  allowed  to  be  used;  but  concerning  the  roots  that  grew 


*  This  passage  is  transferred  to  this  place  from  page  8a  in  the  original,  as  it  is 
more  pertinent  to  this  discussion. 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  239 

between  the  two  there  is  a  difference  of  opinion  between  Rabba 
and  R.  Shesheth.  The  same  note  applies  to  a  tree  growing  out 
of  a  water-ditch  and  to  a  tree  growing  in  a  corner  between  the 
two  walls  of  a  court. 

The  Rabbis  taught:  Roots  of  a  tree  projecting  out  of  the 
ground  three  spans  or  between  which  there  was  a  space  of  three 
spans  must  not  be  used,  though  one  side  of  them  be  level  with 
the  ground,  because  it  is  not  allowed  to  climb,  hang  on  to,  or 
lean  upon  a  tree  (on  Sabbath).  One  must  not  climb  a  tree  on 
the  eve  of  Sabbath  and  remain  there  during  the  entire  Sabbath. 
The  same  rule  applies  to  animals,  i.e.,  one  must  not  climb  upon 
the  back  of  an  animal  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath  and  remain  there 
the  following  day.  One  may,  however,  ascend  to  (respectively) 
descend  into  a  pit,  well,  cavern,  or  fence  by  scaling  or  holding 
to  the  walls  thereof  even  though  they  be  an  hundred  ells  long. 
(The  reason  for  the  prohibition  regarding  a  tree  is  because  there 
is  fear,  lest  a  man  might  tear  off  a  twig  on  Sabbath,  while  in 
the  case  of  a  pit,  well,  etc.,  there  is  no  possibility  of  such  a 
thing.) 

We  have  learned  in  one  Boraitha,  that  if  a  man  climbed  up 
a  tree  (inadvertently)  on  Sabbath  he  must  not  descend,  while  in 
another,  we  have  learned,  that  he  may!  This  presents  no  diffi- 
culty. One  Boraitha  holds,  that  it  should  not  be  allowed  to 
descend  for  the  sake  of  a  precaution,  lest  the  climbing  had  been 
done  with  intention,  while  the  other  Boraitha  maintains,  that  as 
long  as  it  had  been  done  unintentionally  the  man  is  permitted 
to  descend. 

In  one  Boraitha  we  were  taught,  that  be  the  tree  green  or 
dried,  it  is  not  permitted  to  be  used,  while  in  another  it  is  said, 
that  only  if  it  is  green  it  is  prohibited,  if  it  be  dry,  however,  it 
may  be  used.  This  presents  no  difficulty.  The  Boraitha  that 
permits  the  tree  to  be  used  refers  to  one  which  during  the  sum- 
mer had  lost  all  its  fruit  and  leaves,  while  it  prohibits  a  tree  to  be 
used  in  the  rainy  season  when  it  is  full  of  fruit  and  leaves. 

Rami  bar  Abba  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Assi:  A  man  must 
not  walk  on  the  grass  on  the  Sabbath,  for  it  is  written  [Proverbs 
xix.  2]:  "  He  that  hasteneth  with  his  feet  is  a  sinner." 

One  Boraitha  teaches,  that  a  man  is  not  allowed  to  walk  on 
grass  on  the  Sabbath  and  another  teaches  that  he  may!  This 
presents  no  difficulty.  One  Boraitha  refers  to  wet  grass  which 
is  easily  torn,  while  the  other  refers  to  dry  grass.  At  this  time, 
however,  when  we  hold  in  accordance  with  the  opinion  of  Sim- 


240  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

eon,  that  an  act  which  one  has  no  intention  of  performing  does 
not  make  one  culpable,  it  is  permitted  to  walk  on  any  kind  of 
grass. 

MISHNA:  The  shutters  of  a  bleaching  ground  or  thorn 
bushes  (as  are  used)  to  fill  up  breaches  in  a  wall  or  reed  mats 
must  not  be  used  to  close  up  avenues  unless  they  be  placed  a 
trifle  above  the  ground, 

GEMARA:  The  following  presents  a  contradiction  to  the 
Mishna :  We  have  learned :  Portable  shutters,  reed  mats,  and 
plough-handles,  if  already  hanging  in  their  places,  may  be  used  to 
close  up  (avenues)  on  Sabbath  and  so  much  more  on  festivals  ? 
Said  Abayi :  "  Providing  they  have  hinges,"  and  Rabha  said: 
Even  if  they  have  no  hinges  at  the  time  but  at  one  time  did 
have,  they  may  be  used." 

An  objection  was  made:  "  We  have  learned:  Portable  shut- 
ters, reed-mats,  and  plough-handles  if  already  hanging  in  their 
places  and  but  one  hair's  breadth  removed  from  the  ground, 
maybe  used  to  close  up  avenues?"  Abayi  explains  this,  in 
accordance  with  his  former  dictum,  as  follows:  "  Providing  they 
either  have  hinges  or  are  removed  from  the  ground  even  one 
hair's  breadth,"  while  Rabha  explains  this,  according  to  his 
former  statement,  namely:  "  Providing  they  at  one  time  had 
hinges  or  were  one  hair's  breadth  distant  from  the  ground." 

The  Rabbis  taught:  Thorn  bushes,  or  bundles  of  thorns, 
which  were  prepared  for  filling  up  a  breach  in  a  wall,  may,  if 
they  were  tied  together  and  already  hung  up,  be  used  to  close 
up  avenues  on  the  Sabbath  and  so  much  more  on  a  festival. 

R.  Hyya  taught:  "  A  movable  widow-door  may  not  be 
used  to  close  up  avenues  on  the  Sabbath."  What  is  meant  by 
a  widow-door  ?  Some  say  if  it  had  only  one  board  (which  appears 
to  be  as  a  part  of  the  wall)  while  others  say  that  it  may  be  even 
a  two-board  door  but  had  no  joints. 

R.  Jehudah  said :  Bonfires  may  be  made  on  a  festival  pro- 
vided they  are  ignited  from  the  top,  but  they  must  not  be 
ignited  from  the  bottom,  (because  the  flames  would  envelop  the 
fuel  and  make  it  appear  like  a  tent  of  fire).  The  same  rule  applies 
to  eggs,  pots,  folding-beds  used  in  the  field,  and  casks  {i.e.,  they 
must  not  be  piled  up  in  the  form  of  tents  and  in  the  case  of 
eggs  they  must  not  be  cooked  over  a  fire  which  has  the  appear- 
ance of  a  tent). 

A  Sadducee  said  to  R.  Jehoshua  ben  Hananiah :  "  Ye  (all 
Israelites)  are  compared  to  thorns,  because  it  is  written  concern- 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  241 

ing  you  [Micah  vii.  4]:  'The  best  of  them  is  hke  a  brier.'" 
Replied  R.  Jehoshua:  "  Look  further  into  the  verse,  thou  fool, 
where  it  is  written  [ibid.] :  '  The  most  upright  is  sharper  than  a 
thorn  hedge,'  which  signifies,  that  as  a  thorn-hedge  is  used  to 
fill  up  a  breach  in  a  wall,  so  do  the  upright  among  us  shield  us 
from  all  evil." 

MISHNA:  A  man  must  not,  standing  in  private  ground, 
unlock  with  a  key  something  in  public  ground,  nor  may  he, 
standing  in  the  public  ground,  unlock  with  a  key  something  in 
private  ground,  unless  he  had  previously  made  a  partition  ten 
hands  high  (round  the  spot  on  which  he  stands).  Such  is  the 
dictum  of  R.  Meir;  but  the  sages  said  to  him :  "  It  was  the  cus- 
tom in  the  poultry-dealers'  *  market,  at  Jerusalem,  to  lock  up  the 
shops,  and  place  the  key  in  the  window  (aperture)  above  the 
door."     R.  Jose  said:  '*  This  was  done  in  the  wool-market." 

GEMARA:  The  sages  object  to  the  dictum  of  R.  Meir. 
who  speaks  of  public  ground,  by  citing  an  instance  in  Jerusalem 
which  is  unclaimed  ground.  Did  not  Rabba  bar  bar  Hana  say 
in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  that  Jerusalem,  if  the  gates  were 
not  closed  at  night,  would  be  considered  public  ground  as  far  as 
Sabbath  is  concerned  ? 

Said  R.  Papa:  Our  Mishna  treats  of  Jerusalem  after  its 
fortifications  had  been  razed  to  the  ground  when  it  became 
public  ground,  but  Rabha  said :  The  sages  did  not  object  to 
the  dictum  of  R.  Meir  as  quoted  in  the  Mishna,  but  to  another 
statement  of  his  referring  to  gates  of  gardens,  and  the  Mishna 
should  read  thus:  "  Nor  may  he,  standing  in  private  ground, 
open  with  a  key  something  in  unclaimed  ground,  or  vice  versa, 
unless  he  had  made  a  partition  ten  spans  high."  Such  is  the 
dictum  of  R.  Meir;  but  the  sages  objected:  "  It  was  the  custom 
in  the  poultry-dealers'  market,  etc.,  etc." 

The  Rabbis  taught :  The  doors  of  the  gates  of  gardens  if 
leading  into  a  porter's  lodge  on  the  inside  may  be  locked  from 
the  inside.  If  the  porter's  lodge  was  outside  of  the  door,  the 
doors  may  be  locked  on  the  outside,  and  if  there  were  lodges  on 
both  sides  of  the  doors  they  may  be  locked  on  either  side,  but 
if  there  were  no  lodges  at  all,  the  doors  must  not  be  locked  at 
all,  because  they  are  situated  in  private  ground  and  the  key  must 

*  The  Hebrew  term  which  we  render  "poultry-dealers"  is  Patmim.  Rashi 
translates  it  "  butchers."  The  Aruch  and  the  Alphasi,  however,  interpret  the  term 
"  poultry-dealers."  In  Tract  Beitza,  296,  Rashi  explains  the  word  Patam  "  one  who 
feeds  poultr}'." 

VOL.    III.  — 16 


242  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

necessarily  be  brought  from  public  ground.  The  same  rule  applies 
to  shops  that  opened  into  public  ground.  If  the  lock  of  the 
door  was  less  than  ten  spans  from  the  ground,  the  key  should  be 
brought  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath  and  deposited  on  top  of  the  door, 
and  on  Sabbath  he  may  take  it  down,  lock  the  door,  and  put 
the  key  back  in  its  place.  If  there  was  an  aperture  above  the 
door,  he  can  place  the  key  in  that  aperture  providing  the  aper- 
ture was  not  four  spans  square,  for  if  it  be  four  spans  square  it 
constitutes  a  separate  ground  in  itself,  and  the  man  would  carry 
from  one  (kind  of)  ground  into  another. 

MISHNA:  A  loose  bolt  with  a  knob  to  it,  is  prohibited  to 
use  on  Sabbath.  Such  is  the  dictum  of  R.  Eliezer;  but  R.  Jose 
permits  its  use.  R.  Eliezer  said  :  In  the  synagogue  of  Tiberias  it 
was  customary  to  use  such  a  bolt,  until  Rabbon  Gamaliel  and 
the  elders  came  and  prohibited  it.  But  R.  Jose  replied :  On 
the  contrary,  they  refrained  from  using  it  as  unlawful,  until 
Rabbon  Gamaliel  and  the  elders  came  and  permitted  it. 

GEMARA:  If  the  bolt  was  fastened  to  a  cord  (rope)  and 
when  holding  the  cord  the  bolt  was  also  held,  all  agree,  that  It 
may  be  used,  but  they  differ  as  to  a  bolt  that  was  not  fastened 
to  a  cord.  One  master  holds  that  if  it  had  a  knob  on  top  it  is 
regarded  as  a  vessel  and  may  be  used,  while  the  other  master 
said:  "As  it  cannot  be  held  with  the  cord  it  cannot  be  con- 
sidered a  vessel  and  must  not  be  used." 

MISHNA:  A  loose  bolt,  that  is  fastened  to  a  rope  (and 
hangs  down  towards  the  ground)  may  be  used  to  fasten  with  in 
the  Temple  only,  but  not  in  the  country;  but  a  bolt  that  is  fixed 
to  the  building  itself  must  not  be  used  in  either  place.  R. 
Jehudah  said :  A  fixed  bolt  may  be  used  in  the  Temple  and  a 
loose  bolt  in  the  country. 

GEMARA :  The  Rabbis  taught :  What  is  called  a  loose  bolt, 
which  may  be  used  to  fasten  with  in  the  Temple  and  not  in  the 
country  ?  If  it  be  fastened  to  a  rope,  hangs  down,  and  one 
end  reaches  the  ground.  R.  Jehudah,  however,  says,  that  a  bolt 
of  that  kind  may  even  be  used  in  the  country,  but  a  bolt  which 
must  not  be  used  except  in  the  Temple,  is  one  that  is  not  fas- 
tened to  a  rope  and  hangs  down,  but  which  is  fixed  to  the  build- 
ing itself  and  when  taken  out  is  placed  in  a  corner. 

R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said:  "  The  Halakha  pre- 
vails according  to  R.  Jehudah  concerning  a  loose  bolt  in  the 
country  but  as  for  a  fixed  bolt  which  is  not  the  outcome  of  a 
rabbinical  law  but  against  an  actual  biblical  law,  namely:  that 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  243 

prohibiting  building,  it  is  not  allowed  to  be  used  even  in  the 
Temple."  Said  Rabha:  "  A  loose  bolt  is  prohibited  even  in  the 
country  unless  it  be  fastened  by  a  rope  to  the  door,"  This  is 
not  so !  Do  we  not  know,  that  it  happened  when  R.  Tabhla 
came  to  Mehuzza  and  saw  a  bolt  fastened  by  a  rope  but  not 
attached  to  the  door,  he  did  not  object  to  its  use  ?  In  that  case 
it  was  a  rope  that  was  amply  firm  to  hold  the  bolt  without  being 
attached  to  the  door. 

R.  Ivia  came  to  Neherdai  and  saw  a  man  fastening  a  bolt 
with  papyrus,  whereupon  he  said,  that  a  bolt  fastened  in  that 
manner  must  not  be  used. 

R.  Nahumi  bar  Zachariah  asked  Abayi:  "  How  is  it  if  a  man 
made  a  handle  to  the  bolt  ?"  and  he  answered:  "  Thou  askest 
then  concerning  a  pestle  and  it  was  taught  in  the  name  of  R. 
Nahumi  bar  Ada  that  if  he  made  a  handle  to  a  bolt  and  it 
looked  like  a  pestle,  it  may  be  used." 

Rami  bar  Ezekiel  sent  a  request  to  R.  Amram :  "  Let  master 
tell  us  some  of  the  good  sayings,  which  he  at  one  time  related 
in  the  name  of  R.  Assi  concerning  the  canopies  of  boats." 
And  R.  Amram  replied:  "  R.  Assi  said  thus:  If  the  poles  upon 
which  the  canopies  were  put  up  be  one  span  thick,  or  if  they 
be  less  than  one  span  thick,  but  are  less  than  three  spans  apart, 
one  may,  on  the  Sabbath,  bring  a  mat  and  form  a  tent  out  of 
such  poles,  because  they  were  already  at  one  time  tents,  and  for 
the  time  being  were  also  temporary  tents,  and  it  is  permitted  to 
add  to  a  temporary  tent  in  order  to  make  it  useful." 

R.  Huna  had  some  rams  which  at  night  required  fresh  air  and 
in  daytime  required  a  shady  place,  so  he  came  to  Rabh  and  asked 
him  what  to  do  on  the  Sabbath.  Rabh  answered:  On  the 
eve  of  Sabbath,  when  thou  removest  the  covering  of  the  stalls 
which  the  rams  occupied  during  the  day,  do  not  quite  remove 
all  the  covering,  but  leave  about  a  span  closed.  Thus  on  Sab- 
bath thou  wilt  have  a  temporary  tent,  and  thou  mayest  then 
cover  up  the  stalls  entirely;  for  it  is  permitted  to  add  to  a  tem- 
porary tent  on  the  Sabbath. 

Rabh  in  the  name  of  R.  Hyya  said:  One  may  unfold  and 
fold  up  a  curtain  on  the  Sabbath. 

R.  Shesha  the  son  of  R.  Idi  said:  "It  is  permitted  to  wear 
a  black,  broad-brimmed  hat  on  Sabbath."  Did  we  not  learn  in 
a  Boraitha  that  it  is  not  permitted  to  wear  such  a  hat  on  Sab- 
bath ?  This  presents  no  difificulty.  The  Boraitha  refers  to  a 
hat,  the  brim  of  which  was  one  span  in  width.      If  that  be  the 


244  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

case,  then  it  would  not  be  allowed  to  let  down  any  garment 
more  than  a  span  ?  Therefore  we  must  say,  that  the  Boraitha 
prohibits  the  wearing  of  such  a  hat  only  if  it  is  not  tied  to  the 
head  and  not  because  of  its  similarity  to  a  tent,  but  for  fear  that 
the  wind  might  blow  it  off  and  one  would  be  forced  to  carry  it 
more  than  four  ells  in  public  ground,  while  R.  Shesheth  refers 
to  a  hat  that  is  tied  to  the  head  and  there  is  no  fear  of  its  being 
blown  off. 

MISHNA:  In  the  Temple  the  lower  hinge  of  a  cupboard- 
door  may  be  refitted  into  its  place  (on  the  Sabbath),  but'this 
must  not  be  done  in  the  country.  The  upper  hinge  must  not  be 
refitted  either  in  the  Temple  or  in  the  country.  R.  Jehudah 
said:  The  upper  hinge  may  be  refitted  in  the  Temple  and  the 
lower  one  in  the  country. 

GEMARA:  The  Rabbis  taught:  The  lower  hinges  of  a  door 
of  a  cupboard  or  a  chest  or  a  tower  may  be  refitted  into  their 
places  in  the  Temple,  but  in  the  country  they  may  only  be  tem- 
porarily replaced,  but  not  refitted.  If  the  upper  hinges  had 
become  unfastened  it  is  not  allowed  to  even  temporarily  replace 
them  as  a  precaution  lest  they  be  refitted  with  tools,  for  should 
this  be  done  the  act  involves  liability  to  bring  a  sin-offering. 
The  doors  of  cellars,  vaults,  or  gables  must  not  be  refitted,  and 
if  this  was  done,  the  man  is  liable  for  a  sin-offering. 

MISHNA:  They  (priests  who  minister)  may  replace  a  plaster 
on  a  wound  (which  plaster  had  been  taken  off  to  perform  the 
service)  in  the  Temple;  but  this  must  not  be  done  in  the  coun- 
try. To  put  the  first  plaster  on  a  wound  on  Sabbath  is  prohib- 
ited in  either  place. 

GEMARA:  The  Rabbis  taught:  "If  a  plaster  became 
removed  from  a  wound  it  maybe  replaced  on  Sabbath."  R. 
Jehudah  said:  "If  it  was  moved  up  it  may  be  moved  down  and 
if  it  was  moved  down  it  may  be  moved  up,  and  it  is  permitted 
to  remove  part  of  the  plaster  and  cleanse  the  exposed  portion  of 
the  wound,  then  replace  the  plaster,  remove  another  part, 
cleanse  the  exposed  wound  and  again  replace  the  plaster,  but  it 
is  not  permitted  to  cleanse  the  plaster  because  by  so  doing  one 
would  rub  the  plaster  and  if  this  was  done  it  involves  liability 
for  a  sin-offering." 

Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  "The  Halakha 
prevails  according  to  R.  Jehudah." 

R.  Hisda  said:  The  statement  of  the  first  Tana  to  the 
effect  that  a  plaster  may  be  replaced  applies  only  to  a  plaster 


TRACT   ERUBIN.  245 

that  had  fallen  on  a  vessel  but  a  plaster  that  had  fallen  to  the 
ground  must  not  be  replaced. 

Mar  the  son  of  R,  Assi  said:  "  It  happened  once  that  I  was 
standing  before  my  father  and  a  plaster  which  he  had  on  a 
wound  fell  on  a  cushion  and  he  replaced  the  plaster.  Said  I  to 
him:  '  Does  master  not  hold  in  accordance  with  the  opinion  of 
R.  Hisda,  who  said  that  the  first  Tana  and  R.  Jehudah  differ 
only  as  to  a  plaster  that  had  fallen  on  a  vessel,  and  Samuel  said 
that  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Jehudah.  How  then 
could  master  have  replaced  it  ? '  and  my  father  answered  that  he 
did  not  agree  with  R.  Hisda." 

MISHNA:  They  (the  Levites  performing  on  musical  instru- 
ments) may  tie  a  string  (of  an  instrument  which  had  burst,  on 
Sabbath)  in  the  Temple;  but  this  must  not  be  done  in  the  coun- 
try. To  put  a  new  string  on  the  instrument  (on  Sabbath)  is  in 
either  place  prohibited. 

GEMARA:  There  is  a  contradiction  !  Have  we  not  learned 
that  if  a  string  of  an  instrument  had  burst,  they  only  made  a 
loop  but  did  not  tie  it  into  a  knot  ?  This  presents  no  difficulty. 
This  latter  is  the  opinion  of  R.  Simeon,  while  the  Mishna  is  in 
accordance  with  the  opinion  of  the  Rabbis,  as  we  have  learned 
in  the  following  Boraitha:  If  a  Levite  had  burst  the  string  of  an 
instrument  he  may  tie  it;  R.  Simeon,  however,  said:  He  may 
only  make  a  loop  in  the  string.  Said  R.  Simeon  ben  Elazar:  If 
he  merely  makes  a  loop,  the  sound  will  be  affected ;  hence  he 
should  loosen  the  string  at  the  top  and  draw  it  down  to  the  bot- 
tom or  loosen  it  at  the  bottom  and  draw  it  taut  to  the  top. 

MISHNA:  They  (the  priests  who  minister)  may  remove  a 
wart  from  an  animal  on  Sabbath  in  the  Temple,  but  this  must 
not  be  done  in  the  country;  by  means  of  an  instrument  it  is  pro- 
hibited to  do  so  in  either  place. 

GEMARA:  There  is  a  contradiction.  We  have  learned: 
Concerning  the  paschal  lamb,  which  must  be  carried  on  the 
shoulders  or  brought  from  without  the  legal  limits  and  the 
blemish  of  which  must  be  removed,  these  acts  must  not  super- 
sede the  due  observance  of  the  Sabbath. 

R.  Elazar  and  R.  Jose  bar  Hinana  differ:  One  holds,  that  the 
Mishna  and  the  Boraitha  both  treat  of  a  case  where  the  wart  is 
removed  merely  by  hand  and  not  with  an  instrument,  but  the 
Mishna,  which  permits  such  removal,  refers  to  a  wart  which  had 
dried  and  is  easily  crumbled,  while  the  Boraitha  treats  of  a  sup- 
purating wart  which  involves  a  deal  of  trouble  to  remove.     The 


246  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

other,  however,  maintains,  that  the  Boraitha  refers  to  the  removal 
of  the  wart  with  an  instrument. 

R.  Joseph  said:  Both  the  Mishna  and  the  Boraitha  treat  of 
a  case  where  the  wart  was  capable  of  being  removed  by  hand, 
and  they  do  not  differ.  The  Mishna  maintains,  that  any  rabbin- 
ical prohibition  which  applies  to  the  service  of  the  Temple  may 
be  disregarded  in  the  Temple,  while  the  Boraitha  holds,  that  any 
act  pertaining  to  the  service  of  the  Temple  which  is  generally 
prohibited  must  not  be  performed  in  the  country  (outside  of  the 
Temple). 

Abayi  was  sitting  and  repeating  the  Halakha  decreed  by  his 
master  R.  Joseph,  and  R.  Saphra  objected,  saying:  "  Have  we 
not  learned  in  a  Mishna  [Tract  Sabbath,  p.  30] :  that  the  Pass- 
over sacrifice  may  be  turned  around  in  the  oven  (on  Friday) 
when  it  is  getting  dark,  and  the  Passover  sacrifice  was  not  roasted 
in  the  Temple  itself;  hence  we  see,  that  the  rabbinical  prohibi- 
tion was  disregarded  even  outside  of  the  Temple?"  Abayi 
was  silent.  Subsequently  he  came  to  R.  Joseph  and  told  him 
R.  Saphra's  objection.  Said  R.  Joseph  to  him:  "  Why  didst 
thou  not  answer,  that  in  that  case  the  Passover  sacrifice  was  pre- 
pared by  an  aggregation  of  men  and  an  aggregation  of  men  is 
generally  very  cautious  ? "  [Why  did  Abayi  not  answer  R. 
Saphra  to  that  effect  ?  Because  he  heard  only,  that  the  priests 
were  very  cautious,  but  never  heard  anything  about  an  aggre- 
gation of  men,] 

Rabha,  however,  said:  Our  Mishna  is  in  accordance  with  the 
opinion  of  R.  Eliezer,  who  holds,  that  any  preparation  for  the 
fulfilment  of  a  commandment  supersedes  the  observance  of  the 
Sabbath  (but  the  reason  that  the  Mishna  prohibits  the  use  of  an 
instrument  for  removing  the  wart,  is  because  even  R.  Eliezer 
admits,  that  whatever  it  is  possible  to  do  on  Sabbath  in  a  manner 
different  from  a  week-day,  should  so  be  done).  Whence  do  we 
adduce  that  R.  Eliezer  admits  this  ?  From  the  following  Bo- 
raitha: "  If  a  priest  should  suddenly  discover  a  wart  on  his  per- 
son on  the  Sabbath,  his  companion  should  remove  it  by  means 
of  his  teeth,"  Hence  we  see  that  the  wart  must  be  removed  by 
means  of  the  teeth  and  not  by  instruments,  and  again  that  the 
priest  himself  must  not  do  it  but  it  must  be  done  by  his  com- 
panion. According  to  whose  opinion  is  this  ?  Shall  we  say, 
that  it  is  according  to  the  opinion  of  the  sages  and  it  occurred 
in  the  Temple,  why  should  his  companion  be  obliged  to  do  it  ? 
He  could,  according  to  the  opinion  of  the  sages,  do  it  himself. 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  •  247 

because  a  rabbinical  prohibition  may  be  disregarded  in  the  Tem- 
ple; therefore  we  must  say,  that  it  is  in  accordance  with  the 
opinion  of  R.  Eliezer,  who  holds,  that  if  an  ordinary  Israelite 
did  this,  he  would  be  liable  for  a  sin-offering,  but  because  this 
is  an  act  pertaining  to  the  fulfilment  of  a  commandment  it  may 
be  done,  but  if  it  is  possible  to  accomplish  it  in  a  manner  differ- 
ent from  that  on  a  week  day  it  should  so  be  done. 

MISHNA:  A  priest  (ministering)  who  hurts  his  finger,  may 
bind  it  up  with  reeds  in  the  Temple  (on  the  Sabbath),  but  this 
must  not  be  done  in  the  country.  Squeezing  out  the  blood  is,  in 
either  place,  prohibited.  It  is  permitted  to  strew  salt  on  the 
stairs  of  the  altar  (on  Sabbath),  in  order  to  prevent  the  minis- 
tering priests  from  slipphig.  It  is  also  permitted  to  draw  water 
from  the  well  Gola  and  from  the  large  well  by  means  of  the 
rolling  wheel  on  the  Sabbath  and  from  the  cold  well  (on  festi- 
vals). 

GEMARA:  R.  Ika  of  Pashrunia  propounded  a  contradictory 
question  to  Rabha:  In  our  Mishna  it  is  stated,  that  it  is  allowed 
to  strew  salt  on  the  stairs,  whence  we  see,  that  this  may  be 
done  in  the  Temple  only  but  not  in  the  country;  but  have  we 
not  learned  that  if  a  court  had  become  deluged  by  rain  it  is 
permitted  to  strew  straw  on  the  ground  (so  as  to  make  it  pass- 
able) ?  Answered  Rabha:  "With  straw  it  is  different!  For 
he  can  eventually  remove  the  straw  and  use  it  for  another  pur- 
pose." 

Rabha  related:  "  If  a  court  had  become  deluged  by  rain, 
one  may  bring  straw  and  spread  it  out  on  the  ground  (of  the 
court)."  Said  R.  Papa  to  him:  "  Have  we  not  learned,  how- 
ever, that  he  should  not  spread  the  straw  in  the  same  manner 
as  he  does  on  a  week  day,  i.e.,  through  a  basket,  or  crate,  but 
through  the  sides  of  a  broken  basket."  Whereupon  Rabha  pro- 
cured an  interpreter  (crier)  and  proclaimed:  What  I  told  you 
previously  was  a  mistake !  Thus  was  it  taught  in  the  name  of 
R.  Eliezer:  When  he  comes  to  spread  out  the  straw  on  the 
ground  he  should  not  do  it  by  means  of  a  basket  or  a  crate  but 
through  the  sides  of  a  broken  basket. 

"  It  is  also  permitted  to  draw  water  from  the  well  Gola,''  etc. 
Ula  was  a  guest  in  the  home  of  R.  Menasseh.  A  man  happened 
to  come  along  and  knocked  at  the  door.  So  Ula  asked:  "  Who 
is  it  that  is  violating  the  Sabbath  ?  "  Said  Rabba  to  him:  "  It 
was  prohibited  only  to  produce  a  sound  by  means  of  an  instru- 
ment, but  not  to  knock  on  the  door."     Abayi  objected:  "  We 


248  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

have  learned  that  it  is  permitted  to  draw  wine  by  means  of  a 
siphon  or  drip  it  through  a  colander  for  a  sick  person  on  the 
Sabbath  (and  it  is  known  that  both  produce  a  sound)."  So  we 
see,  that  this  is  only  permitted  for  a  sick  person  but  not  for  a 
healthy  person.  What  purpose  would  it  serve  in  the  case  of  a 
sick  person  ?  To  arouse  him  from  slumber  ?  Hence  it  is  not 
permitted  to  produce  a  sound  for  a  healthy  person  ?  Nay; 
dripping  wine  through  a  colander  is  supposed  to  produce  a  sound 
similar  to  that  of  a  cymbal  and  it  is  done  in  order  to  induce 
sleep  in  the  case  of  a  sick  person  who  had  dozed  off  in  slumber. 

Is  not,  however,  the  prohibition  to  draw  water  form  the  well 
Gola  or  from  the  large  well  instituted  on  account  of  the  sound 
produced  by  the  rolling  wheel  ?  Nay;  it  is  prohibited  as  a  pre- 
caution, lest  a  man  take  water  from  such  a  well  and  sprinkle  his 
garden  or  his  ruins  (to  lay  the  dust). 

Ameimar  permitted  water  to  be  drawn  from  the  wells  in 
Mehuzza  by  means  of  a  rolling  wheel,  saying:  "  The  sages  pro- 
hibited it  as  a  precaution,  lest  a  man  sprinkle  his  garden  or  his 
ruin  with  that  water,  but  here  in  this  city  there  are  no  gardens 
and  no  ruins."  Afterwards  he  observed  that  the  people  used 
that  water  for  the  purpose  of  soaking  flax  during  the  week,  so 
he  prohibited  the  drawing  of  that  water  on  Sabbath. 

"  And  from  the  cold  well  {on  festivals).''  What  is  meant  by 
the  cold  well  ?  Said  R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak:  *'  That  well  was 
filled  with  sprin g- water. "  Whence  does  R.  Na'hman  adduce 
this  ?  From  the  passage  [Jeremiah  vi.  7]:  "  As  a  well  sendeth 
forth  its  waters."  * 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  It  was  not  permitted  to 
draw  water  from  all  cold  wells  but  only  from  the  one  mentioned ; 
because  when  the  Israelites  returned  from  exile  they  together 
with  their  prophets  who  lived  in  that  day  drank  therefrom  and 
made  it  lawful  to  draw  water  from  that  well  on  Sabbath  forever. 
The  prophets  would  not  have  done  this  either,  if  it  were  not 
for  the  fact  that  they  knew  it  to  be  an  ancient  custom  of  their 
ancestors. 

MISHNA:  Should  (the  carcass  of)  a  dead  reptile  be  found  in 
the  Temple  on  the  Sabbath,  the  priest  shall  move  it  out  with  his 
belt,  as  an  unclean  thing  must  not  remain  within  the  Temple. 

*  The  Hebrew  term  for  "  sendeth  forth  "  is  "  hokir,"  and  the  term  for  "  cold 
well"  is  "  Bor  hak'ar,"  whence  R.  Na'hman  adduces  that  as  a  well  which  sendeth 
forth  waters  must  necessarily  be  a  spring,  so  this  well  called  Bor  Hakar  was  also  a 
spring  :  a  deduction  by  analogy. 


TRACT   ERUBIN.         .  249 

Such  is  the  dictum  of  R.  Johanan  ben  Berokah ;  but  R.  Jehudah 
said :  It  should  be  removed  with  wooden  pincers,  in  order  that 
the  uncleanness  spread  not  further.  From  which  (parts  of  the 
Temple)  should  it  be  removed  ?  From  the  inner  Temple,  from 
the  hall,  and  from  the  interspace  between  the  hall  and  the 
altar.  Such  is  the  dictum  of  R.  Simeon  ben  Nanos;  but  R. 
Aqiba  said:  It  should  be  removed  from  every  place  (in  the 
Temple)  which,  if  entered  by  an  unclean  person  intentionally, 
lays  him  liable  to  the  punishment  of  Kareth  (being  cut  off),  and 
if  entered  inadvertently,  makes  him  liable  for  a  sin-offering.  In 
all  other  parts  of  the  Temple,  the  carcass  of  the  reptile  should 
be  covered  with  a  (copper)  cooling-vessel  {ipvHtrjp)  till  the 
Sabbath  is  over  and  then  be  removed.  R.  Simeon  said:  What- 
soever the  sages  permit  thee  to  do  is  (not  an  infraction  of  bibli- 
cal law,  but)  a  right  which  is  thine  own ;  inasmuch  as  whatever 
they  permit  could  at  all  events  become  unlawful  only  on  account 
of  their  own  enactments  for  the  sake  of  the  Sabbath-rest. 

GEMARA:  R.  Tabhi  bar  Kisna  said  in  the  name  of  Samuel: 
"  One  who  brings  a  thing,  which  had  become  unclean  through  a 
reptile  into  the  Temple  (if  he  does  it  intentionally),  he  becomes 
amenable  to  the  punishment  of  Kareth  (being  cut  off)*  and  (if 
he  does  it  inadvertently)  is  liable  for  a  sin-ofTering;  but  one  who 
brings  in  the  carcass  of  a  reptile  itself,  is  not  culpable."  Why 
so?  Because  it  is  written  [Numbers  v.  3]:  "Both  male  and 
female  shall  ye  send  out,"  and  this  refers  to  such  as  have  become 
unclean,  but  by  taking  a  legal  bath  (Mikvah)  can  become  clean. 
The  reptile  itself  can  never  be  clean,  however,  hence  one  is  not 
culpable,  if  he  brings  it  into  the  Temple. 

Shall  we  assume  that  the  point  of  variance  between  R. 
Johanan  ben  Berokah  and  R.  Jehudah  in  our  Mishna  is  based 
upon  the  above  Halakha  of  Samuel,  i.e.,  R.  Johanan,  when 
stating,  that  an  unclean  thing  must  not  remain  in  the  Temple 
means  to  say,  that  if  a  man  brought  in  a  reptile,  he  is  culpable, 
while  R.  Jehudah,  who  states  that  the  reptile  should  be  removed 
on  account  of  the  possibility  of  its  spreading  uncleanness,  means 
to  signify  that  a  man  who  brings  in  a  reptile  is  not  culpable,  and 
the  reptile  itself  is  merely  a  means  of  spreading  uncleanness  ? 
Nay;  both  agree  that  a  man  is  culpable,  but  R.  Johanan  means 
to  assert,  that  the  remaining  of  an  unclean  thing  in  the  Temple 
is   a   far   more   grievous  condition  than   the  possibility  of   its 

*  See  Numbers  xix,  13. 


250  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

spreading  uncleanness,  while  R.  Jehudah  claims,  that  the  spread- 
ing is  of  more  consequence,  hence  he  advises  that  wooden  pin- 
cers be  used  but  not  the  belt  of  the  priest. 

Thus  we  see,  that  whether  a  man  is  culpable  or  not  is  not  the 
point  of  variance  between  the  two  teachers  of  the  first  clause  in 
the  Mishna  but  between  the  Tanaim  of  the  second  clause  com- 
mencing: "  From  which  parts  (of  the  Temple)  should  it  be 
removed  ? "  He  who  says,  that  it  should  be  removed  only  from 
the  inner  Temple,  from  the  hall,  etc.,  holds,  that  if  a  man 
brought  in  a  reptile  into  the  Temple,  he  is  not  culpable,  but  R. 
Aqiba,  who  says  that  it  should  be  removed  from  every  place, 
etc.,  holds  that  the  man  who  brings  in  the  reptile  is  culpable. 

R.  Johanan  said:  Both  Tanaim,  R.  Simeon  ben  Nanos  and 
R.  Aqiba,  adduced  their  teaching  from  one  and  the  same  pas- 
sage, viz.,  II  Chronicles  xxix.  i6:  "  And  the  priests  went  into 
the  inner  part  of  the  house  of  the  Lord  to  cleanse  it ;  and  they 
brought  out  everything  unclean  which  they  found  in  the  temple 
of  the  Lord  into  the  court  of  the  house  of  the  Lord ;  and  the 
Levites  received  it,  to  carry  it  out  abroad  unto  the  brook 
Kidron."  R.  Simeon  ben  Nanos  means  to  say,  that  because 
the  Levites  received  the  unclean  things  from  the  priests  for  fur- 
ther conveyance,  it  is  evident,  that  only  as  far  as  the  place 
where  the  transfer  was  made  to  the  Levites,  it  is  important  that 
no  uncleanness  be  found,  and  a  rabbinical  ordinance  may  be  vio- 
lated in  order  to  remove  such  uncleanness,  but  from  that  place 
and  further  it  is  not  of  suflficient  consequence  to  permit  of  the 
infraction  of  an  ordinance  instituted  for  the  sake  of  the  Sabbath- 
rest.  R.  Aqiba,  however,  means  to  say,  that  the  finding  of 
uncleanness  in  any  part  of  the  Temple  is  of  suflficient  importance 
to  permit  of  the  infraction  of  a  rabbinical  ordinance,  and  the 
reason  that  the  priest  transferred  the  unclean  things  to  the  Le- 
vites was  because  where  Levites  could  carry  it,  the  priests  are 
exempt,  but  up  to  the  place  of  transfer,  although  the  priests 
were  not  permitted  under  ordinary  circumstances  to  traverse  the 
space  except  for  ministerial  duties,  in  that  case  the  matter  was 
of  such  importance  that  they  were  allowed  to  disregard  that 
regulation. 

The  Rabbis  taught:  It  is  permitted  for  anyone  to  enter  the 
Temple  for  the  purpose  of  building,  repairing,  and  also  for  the 
purpose  of  removing  an  unclean  thing.  It  is  a  better  fulfil- 
ment of  that  religious  duty  if  a  priest  does  so,  and  in  lieu  of  a 
priest  a  Levite;  but  if  there  is  no  Levite  on  hand,  an  ordinary 


TRACT    ERUBIN.  251 

Israelite  may  go.  All  of  them,  however,  must  be  (ritually) 
dean  (notwithstanding  the  fact  that  they  are  about  to  become 
unclean). 

"  R.  Simeon  said:  Whatsoever  the  sages  permit,''  etc.  What 
does  R.  Simeon  refer  to  with  this  dictum  ?  He  has  reference  to, 
or  in  fact  supplements  his  dictum  in  the  fourth  chapter  of  this 
tract  (last  Mishna)  to  the  effect  that  "  if  a  man  was  even  fifteen 
ells  beyond  the  legal  limits  he  may  nevertheless  go  back,"  and 
referring  to  this  he  states,  that  this  is  merely  the  man's  own 
right,  as  the  land  surveyors  are  liable  to  err  in  the  measurement. 

*^  As  whatever  they  permit  could  at  all  events  become  unlaw- 
ful'' etc.  What  would  R.  Simeon  refer  to  with  this  part  of 
his  statement  ?  This  latter  part  of  his  dictum  refers  to  his 
statement  in  the  Boraitha  concerning  a  new  string  for  an  instru- 
ment (previously  mentioned)  when  he  decrees,  that  if  the  string 
is  broken  the  Levite  may  tie  it  into  a  loop,  and  here  he  supple- 
ments it  by  saying,  that  whatever  the  sages  permitted  was  only 
such  an  act  as  could  not  involve  liability  for  a  sin-offering;  but 
any  act  which  could  involve  liability  for  a  sin-offering  was  not 
permitted  by  the  sages  to  be  performed. 


END  OF  THIRD  VOLUME. 


Princeton  Theological  Seminary  Libraries 


1    1012  01249  6875 


iniiiiiiiniiiinin 


