It'!' riiH' 


iiiii 

1  I    III  |ini|IH<!l'<!!!!!M)|   I  M!  MIM! 


NEW    EDITION 


BABYLONIAN  TALMUD 


©riatnal  Uejt,  BMtet),  Correcte6,  jformulatet),  ant) 
UranslateO  into  Bnglisb 


BY 


MICHAEL    L.   RODKINSON 


THE    REV.   DR.  ISAAC    M.  WISE 

President  Hebrew  Union  College,  Cincinnati,  O. 


SECTION  MOED  (FESTIVALS),  TRACT  SABBATH 


Volume  n. 


Boston 

THE  TALMUD  SOCIETY 

I9I8 


EXPLANATORY   REMARKS. 

In  our  translation  we  adopted  these  principles  : 

1.  Tenant  of  the  original — We  have  learned  in  a  Mishna  ;  Tania — We  havs 
learned  in  a  Boraitha  ;    Itemar — It  was  taught. 

2.  Questions  are  indicated  by  the  interrogation  point,  and  are  immediately 
followed  by  the  answers,  without  being  so  marked. 

3.  When  in  the  original  there  occur  two  statements  separated  by  the  phrase, 
Lishna  achrena  or  WLx'ibayith  Aevia  (literally,  "otherwise  interpreted"),  we  translate 
only  the  second. 

4.  As  the  pages  of  the  original  are  indicated  in  our  new  Hebrew  edition,  it  is  not 
deemed  necessary  to  mark  them  in  the  English  edition,  this  being  only  a  tinnslation 
from  the  latter. 


Copyright,  i8g6,  nv 
MICHAEL  L.   RODKINSON 


Copyright  1916,  by 
NEW  TALMUD  PUBLISHING  SOCIETY 


CONTENTS. 


PAGE 

Synopsis  of  Subjects  of  Volume  II. — Tract  Sabbath,      .       xli 

CHAPTER   XI. 

Regulations    concerning    Throwing    from    one   Ground 

INTO  Another,  ........     189 

CHAPTER   XII. 

Regulations   concerning    Building,    Ploughing,  etc.,  on 

the  Sabbath,    .........     204 

CHAPTER   XIII. 

Regulations    concerning    Weaving,    Tearing,    Hunting, 

ETC.,  on  the  Sabbath,     .......     213 

CHAPTER   XIV. 

Regulations  concerning  the  Catching  of  Reptiles,  Ani- 
mals and  Birds,       .         .♦ 219 

CHAPTER    XV. 

Regulations    concerning    the    Tying    and    Untying    of 

Knots  on  the  Sabbath, 230 

CHAPTER   XVI. 

Regulations   concerning  Articles  which    may    be   oaved 

from  a  Conflagration  on  Sabbath,     ....     239 

CHAPTER    XVII. 
Regulations  concerning  the  Handling  of  Utensils  and 

Furniture  on  the  Sarhath,  .....     266 

xxxix 


xl  CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER    XVIII. 

PAGE 

Regulations  regarding  the  Clearing  Off  of  Required 
Space,  the  Assistance  to  be  Given  Cattle  when 
Giving  Birth  to  their  Young  and  to  Women  about 
TO  BE  Confined, 276 

CHAPTER   XIX. 
Regulations  ordained   by    R.    Eliezer   concerning    Cir- 
cumcision ON  the  Sabbath, 288 

CHAPTER   XX. 
Regulations  concerning  Certain  Acts  of  Labor  Which 
MUST   BE   Performed    Differently  on  a  Sabbath  and 
ON  A  Festival, 309 

CHAPTER   XXI. 
Regulations  concerning  the  Pouring  Out  of  Wine  from 
Vessels   Covered  with   a  Stone  (which  must  not  be 
lifted),  and  the  Clearing  Off  of  Crumbs,  etc.,  from 
the  Table, 322 

CHAPTER   XXII. 
Regulations  concerning  Preparation  of  Food  and  Bev- 
erages,               ....     328 

CHAPTER  \XIU. 
Regulations  concerning  Borrowing,  Casting  Lots,  Wait- 
ing   for  the  Close  of  the  Sabbath,  and  Attending 
TO  a  Corpse,     .........     342 

CHAPTER   XXIV. 
Regulations  concerning   a   Man  Who   is   Overtaken    by 
Dusk    on    the    Eve    of    Sabbath    while    Travelling, 

AND    CONCERNING    FEEDING    OF    CaTTLE 363 

THE   PRAYER  AT  THE   CONCLUSION  OF  A  TRACT,     379 
APPENDIX,     ......  .....     381 


SYNOPSIS  OF  SUBJECTS 

OF 

VOLUME    II.-TRACT    SABBATH 


CHAPTER   XI. 


MiSHNAS  I.,  II,,  III.,  IV.,  and  V.  Throwing  from  private  into  private  by 
way  of  public  ground.  What  constituted  the  sin  of  the  wood-gatherer.  The 
mysterious  scrolls  found  by  Rabh  in  the  house  of  his  uncle  R.  Hyya  concern- 
ing the  principal  acts  of  labor.  What  was  the  name  of  the  wood-gatherer. 
Arraignment  of  R.  Aqiba  by  Jehudah  ben  Bathyra  for  slandering  Zeloph- 
chad,  by  naming  him  as  the  wood-gatherer,  and  for  slandering  Aaron,  by 
stating  that  he  had  been  punished  by  leprosy.  Reward  for  merit  comes 
niore  quickly  than  retribution  for  wickedness.  Regulations  concerning  pits 
in  public  ground  for  the  Sabbath.  Throwing  from  a  distance  of  four  ells 
against  a  wall.  Throwing  within  four  ells,  when  the  object  thrown  rolled  to 
a  greater  distance.  Throwing  at  sea  for  a  distance  of  four  ells,  and  throw- 
ing from  the  sea  to  land,  or  from  one  ship  to  another.  Throwing  a  thing  on 
Sabbath  and  recollecting  that  it  was  Sabbath  immediately  afterwards.  If  the 
thing  thrown  was  caught  by  another.  The  rule  concerning  what  constitutes 
committing  an  act  through  error,  involving  the  liability  for  a  sin-offering, 

1 80-203 
CHAPTER   XII. 

MiSHNAS  I.,  II.,  III.,  and  IV.  Concerning  building.  The  amount  of 
building  involving  liability  for  a  sin-offering;  the  amount  of  ploughing.  The 
writing  of  how  many  letters  make  one  liable  for  a  sin-offering  ;  with  which 
hand  that  is  to  be  done.  The  wonderful  statement  of  some  young  men  at 
the  schoolhouse,  which  was  not  heard  of  even  in  the  time  of  Joshua  the  son 
of  Nun.  Why  the  letters  of  the  word  Sheqer  (lie)  are  so  close  together  (in  the 
order  of  sequence  of  the  alphabet)  and  the  letters  of  Emeth  (truth)  so  far 
apart  ?  Because  lies  are  very  frequent  and  truth  very  scarce.  Tattooing. 
Ben  Sattadai,  being  a  fool,  cannot  be  cited  as  an  instance,  .        204-212 

CHAPTER   XIII.  * 

MiSHNAS  I.,  II.,  III.,  and  IV.  Concerning  weaving.  How  many  threads 
one  must  weave  to  become  culpable.     One  who  ^ears  an  article  or  breaks  a 


xlii  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

vessel  on  the  Sabbath  in  a  moment  of  fury  is  regarded  as  one  who  practises 
idolatry.  Concerning  one  who  rends  his  garments  upon  being  advised  of  the 
death  of  a  relative  on  Sabbath.  Reward  for  shedding  tears  over  the  death 
of  a  righteous  man.  Fate  of  those  who  fail  to  mourn  the  death  of  a  scholar. 
If  one  member  of  the  community  die,  let  the  entire  community  beware. 
Rules  pertaining  to  hunting  and  trapping.  May  the  door  be  closed  on  a 
stag  who  seeks  refuge  in  a  dwelling  ? 213-218 

CHAPTER   XIV. 

MiSHNA  I.  Concerning  the  eight  kinds  of  vermin  mentioned  in  the 
Thorah.  On  what  material  the  Phylacteries  may  be  written.  Samuel's  and 
Kama's  experience  with  Rabh  upon  the  arrival  of  the  latter  in  Babylon  from 
Palestine.  Questions  put  to  Rabh  by  Kama.  Samuel's  remedies  given 
Rabh  during  the  latter's  illness.  Questions  put  to  R.  Joshua  of  Garthi  by  a 
Bathusee,  and  R.  Joshua's  replies, 219-222 

MiSHNA  II.  Concerning  the  preparation  of  salt  water  on  Sabbath.  A 
drop  of  water  the  best  remedy  for  sore  eyes.  Which  parts  of  the  body  must 
not  be  touched  by  the  hand  immediately  after  arising  and  before  performing 
the  morning  ablutions.  The  comparison  of  the  eye  to  a  princess,  who  should 
not  be  touched  by  a  hand  that  had  not  been  washed  three  times.  Is  it  per- 
mitted to  bathe  a  sore  hand  in  wine  or  vinegar  on  Sabbath?        .         222-225 

MiSHNAS  III.  and  IV.  Concerning  foods  and  beverages  which  may  be 
partaken  of  on  Sabbath  for  medicinal  purposes.  Definition  of  the  tree-water 
mentioned  in  the  Mishna.  The  aptitude  of  Babylonian  beer  as  a  remedy. 
The  use  of  Ikkarim  (a  preventive  against  pregnancy),  .         .        225-229 

CHAPTER   XV. 

MiSHNAS  I.,  II.,  and  III.  Concerning  the  tieing  and  untieing  of  knots  on 
Sabbath.  The  poverty  of  R.  Jehudah,  the  brother  of  Sallah  the  Pious,  and 
the  manner  he  and  his  shared  the  use  of  one  pair  of  sandals,       .         230-233 

MiSHNA  IV.  Concerning  the  folding  of  clothes  and  the  making  of  beds 
on  the  Sabbath.  Laws  concerning  a  Sabbath  that  is  concurrent  with  the 
Day  of  Atonement.  Distinction  of  attire  on  Sabbath  from  that  on  week-days. 
R.  Johanan's  statement  in  reference  to  clothes.  Rules  for  walking  on  the 
Sabbath.  Inferences  drawn  from  the  biblical  passage  :  "Give  unto  the  wise, 
and  he  will  become  wiser."  Boaz's  object  in  marrying  Ruth.  The  mention 
made  in  the  Thorah  concerning  change  of  attire.  The  necessity  for  a  scholar 
of  keeping  his  attire  immaculate.  The  degree  of  trustworthiness  required  of 
a  scholar  in  order  that  he  may  recover  a  lost  article  without  identification. 
The  degree  of  worth  required  of  a  scholar  to  allow  of  his  eligibility  to  the 
presidency  of  a  congregation.  Rules  concerning  the  cleansing  of  food  on 
the  afternoon  of  the  Day  of  Atonement, 233-238 

CHAPTER    XVi. 

MiSHNAS  I.  and  II.  Concerning  the  saving  of  sacred  scrolls  from  a  con- 
flagration on  Sabbath.      What  is  the  law  concerning  such  scrolls  if  written  in 


SYNOPSIS    OF   SUBJECTS.  xliii 

Aramaic,  Coptic,  Median,  old  Hebrew,  Elamite,  and  Greel<  ?  What  hap- 
pened to  Aba  Halafta  on  his  visit  to  R.  Gamaliel  the  Great  in  Tiberias, 
while  sitting  at  the  table  of  Johanan  the  Na^uph.  Aba  Halafta's  reminis- 
cence of  R.  Gamaliel's  grandfather,  in  reference  to  the  book  of  Job,  written 
in  Aramaic.  The  law  concerning  the  saving  of  written  benedictions  and 
amulets  from  a  conflagration.  One  who  writes  benedictions  is  regarded  as 
one  who  burns  the  Law.  What  happened  to  men  of  Sidon,  who  wrote  bene- 
dictions, which  fact  became  known  to  R.  Ishmael.  Why  are  the  two  verses 
(Numbers  x.  35  and  36)  marked  by  signs  ?  What  is  the  law  concerning  the 
saving  of  the  Gilyonim  and  the  books  of  the  Sadducees  from  a  conflagration  ? 
R.  Tarphon's  dictum  in  this  matter.  Ema  Shalom,  R.  Eliezer's  wife's,  and 
her  brother  R.  Gamaliel's  experience  with  a  philosopher,  who  was  also  a 
judge.  The  law  concerning  covers  of  books,  and  to  which  place  they  may 
be  taken  in  case  of  fire, .         239-257 

MiSHNA  III.  How  much  food  may  be  saved  from  a  conflagration  on 
Sabbath  ?  How  should  bread  be  cut  on  the  Sabbath  ?  The  number  of  meals 
to  be  eaten  on  Sabbath.  The  amount  of  property  a  poor  man  may  own  and 
suii  not  be  debarred  from  accepting  charitable  gifts.  What  should  be  given 
to  an  itinerant  beggar.  The  reward  of  those  who  observe  the  eating  of  three 
meals  on  the  Sabbath.  The  reward  of  one  who  maketh  the  Sabbath  a  de- 
light. By  what  means  we  may  make  the  Sabbath  a  delight.  The  good 
deeds  related  by  several  Tanaim  and  Amoraim,  to  have  been  especially  taken 
care  of  by  them.  The  different  kinds  of  work  performed  by  each  one  of  the 
Amoraim  personally  in  honor  of  the  Sabbath.  Anecdote  told  of  Joseph,  who 
honored  the  Sabbath,  and  his  rich  Gentile  neighbor.  The  eventual  impover- 
ishment of  the  Gentile  through  the  purchase  of  a  pearl  which  was  swallowed 
by  a  fish,  and  the  sudden  wealth  of  Joseph,  who  bought  the  fish  and  found 
the  pearl.  Experience  of  R.  Hyya  bar  Aba  while  the  guest  of  a  rich  man  in 
the  city  of  Ludkai.  How  must  the  Day  of  Atonement  be  honored?  What 
the  two  angels  who  accompany  man  at  the  close  of  Sabbath  say  to  one  who 
had  honored  the  Sabbath  and  to  one  who  had  not.  The  story  of  R.  Abuha 
and  his  calf.  Different  opinions  concerning  the  cause  of  the  destruction  of 
Jerusalem,      ...........         257,  258 

MiSHNAS  IV.,  v.,  VI.,  and  VII.  How  many  loaves  of  bread  may  be  saved 
in  a  basket  from  a  conflagration.  It  is  allowed  to  cover  a  chest  with  a  goat- 
skin to  keep  it  from  burning.  Partitions  to  be  made  with  vessels  filled  with 
water.  Concerning  a  candle  that  had  fallen  on  the  table.  Concerning  Gen- 
tiles and  minors  at  the  extinguishing  of  a  fire  on  Sabbath.  The  miracle 
occurring  for  Joseph  ben  Simai.  What  dangerous  animals  may  be  killed  on 
Sabbath.  The  dissatisfaction  of  the  pious  with  those  who  kill  on  the  Sabbath, 
and  the  dissatisfaction  of  the  sages  with  the  pious.  Aba  bar  Minyumi  at  the 
house  of  the  Exilarch.  The  story  of  R.  Gamaliel  on  board  of  a  ship,  and  of 
Samuel,  in  whose  presence  a  Gentile  lit  a  candle  for  his  own  use,       258-265 

CHAPTER   XVII. 

MiSHNAS  I.  to  VI.  Concerning  vessels  which  may  be  handled  on  the  Sab- 
bath. Vessels  which  may  be  removed  for  lack  of  space,  also  from  sunshine 
into  the  shade  ;  whether  fragments  of  the  vessels  may  be  moved  with  them, 


xliv  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS 

and  other  such  matters.     The  questions  put  to  Rabh  by  Mari  bar  Rachel,  and 
Rabh's  replies.     Concerning  window-blinds  and  covers  of  vessels,      266-275 

CHAPTER   XVIII. 

MiSHNA  I.  How  much  straw  may  be  removed  for  the  accommodation 
of  guests  on  Sabbath.  The  reward  for  hospitality.  Different  opinions  con- 
cerning the  merits  of  hospitality.  The  six  things  of  which  the  interest  is 
paid  to  man  on  earth  and  the  principal  in  the  world  to  come.  The  four 
additional  things  which  include  the  previous  six.  Concerning  one  who 
judges  his  neighbor  charitably,  and  his  reward  above.  The  story  of  the  man 
who  was  hired  by  the  father  of  Hyrcanos  for  three  years,  and  who  was  not 
paid  at  the  end  of  the  term.  The  story  of  the  pious  man  who  ransomed  a 
maiden  from  captivity.  The  story  of  R.  Jehoshua  and  the  Roman  matron, 
and  his  disciples.     Whether  salt  meat  and  salt  fish  may  be  handled,  276-281 

MiSHNA  II.  Concerning  a  basket  set  down  for  chickens  to  climb.  Con- 
cerning a  woman  carrying  her  child.  What  may  be  done  in  the  event  of  an 
animal  falling  into  the  water  on  Sabbath, 281,  282 

MiSHNA  III.  Concerning  animals  about  to  calve  on  a  festival.  What 
assistance  may  be  given  a  woman  about  to  give  birth  to  child  on  a  Sabbath. 
For  how  long  a  period  may  the  Sabbath  be  violated  on  account  of  a  woman 
lying-in  ?  From  what  time  is  she  considered  to  be  lying-in  ?  Where  life  is 
at  stake,  the  ordinances  may  be  put  to  the  most  lenient  construction.  Every- 
thing necessary  for  a  sick  person,  where  the  illness  is  not  dangerous,  should 
be  performed  by  a  Gentile.  Concerning  bleeding.  Meals  after  being  bled. 
The  duty  of  drinking  wine  after  being  bled,  and  advice  to  one  who  has  no 
wine.  On  what  days  one  should  be  bled  and  on  what  days  one  should  not. 
Everything  mentioned  in  Ezekiel  xvi.  4  may  be  done  for  a  woman  lying-in  on 
Sabbath. 282-287 

CHAPTER   XIX, 

MiSHNAS  I.,  II.,  and  III.  Concerning  the  bringing  of  the  knife  for  circum- 
cision on  Sabbath.  When  it  should  be  brought  publicly  and  when  con- 
cealed; when  it  should  be  concealed  before  witnesses.  Public  carrying  of 
the  knife  as  a  proof  of  the  love  of  the  commandment.  Commandments  ac- 
cepted by  Israelites  with  joy  are  even  now  carried  out  joyfully ;  those  received 
with  protest  are  now  reluctantly  carried  out.  Story  of  Elisha,  "  the  man  of 
wings."  The  Sabbath  may  be  violated  on  account  of  preparations  for  cir- 
'Mimcision.  Concerning  the  sucking  out  of  the  blood,  and  bandages  neces- 
sary for  circumcision.  What  Abayi's  mother  told  him.  Rabh's  experience 
with  the  physicians  of  Me'huzza.  Children  who  have  imperfect  circulation 
should  not  be  circumcised  until  in  perfect  health.  What  happened  to  Nathan 
of  Babylon.  How  a  child  should  be  bathed  on  Sabbath.  The  law  concern- 
ing hermaphrodites.  Concerning  a  child  born  at  twilight  and  a  child  born 
without  a  foreskin.  The  story  of  the  child  of  R.  Ada  bar  Ahabha,  who  was 
carried  to  thirteen  circumcisers.  Whether  the  Sabbath  may  be  violated  on 
account  of  a  child  that  had  been  delivered  from  the  side  of  the  mother  (with 
instruments).     When  a  child  is  called  a  miscarriage.     If  a  child  was  to  a 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  xlv 

certainty  regularly  born,  it  must  in  the  event  of  its  death  be  mourned  in  the 
regular  manner 288-305 

MiSHNAS  IV.,  v.,  and  VI.  Concerning  one  who  had  two  children  to  be 
circumcised.  Under  what  circumstances  a  child  may  be  circumcised  after 
the  eighth  day  and  until  the  twelfth.  The  benedictions  pronounced  by  the 
circumciser,  the  father  of  the  child,  and  the  assembled  guests  after  the 
circumcision, 305-308 

CHAPTER   XX. 

MiSHNAS  I.  to  V.  Concerning  wine-filters.  Laws  concerning  folding- 
beds,  folding-chairs,  etc.  Question  put  by  R.  Kahana  to  Rabh.  Rabh's 
reply  and  the  explanation  of  same  by  the  Gemara.  The  assertion  that  the 
Law  will  be  forgotten  by  Israel,  and  R.  Simeon's  ben  Jochai  explanation  of 
same.  The  advisability  of  investigating  amongst  the  judges  in  Israel  in 
times  of  trouble.  Corrupt  judges  the  hindrance  to  the  resting  of  the  Lord's 
Shekhina  among  the  children  of  Israel.  Zion's  redemption  must  come 
through  justice.  The  story  of  the  young  scholar  who  was  accused  before  R. 
Ashi.  The  story  told  by  R.  Joseph  concerning  the  goblet  of  wine  serv^ed 
him  by  Mar  Uqba.  Concerning  the  soaking  of  laserpitium  on  Sabbath. 
Indisposition  of  R.  A'ha  bar  Joseph,  who  was  cured  by  laserpitium.  Several 
sayings  of  R.  Hisda,  giving  advice.  How  animals  must  be  fed.  Concerning 
straw  on  a  bed.  Concerning  customary  and  unusual  handling  of  things. 
Small  men  should  not  wear  large  shoes  nor  women  torn  shoes,      ,      309-321 

CHAPTER   XXI. 

MiSHNAS  I.  to  III.  Concerning  the  lifting  of  a  child  in  connection  with 
things  held  by  the  child,  and  the  lifting  of  a  corpse  in  connection  with  other 
things.  Concerning  a  base  to  a  prohibited  thing.  Concerning  a  stone  at  the 
opening  of  a  barrel  or  on  a  cushion.  Concerning  the  removal  of  husks  and 
bones  from  the  table.  The  decision  of  Abayi  that  the  school  of  Hillel  is 
always  in  conformity  with  R.  Simeon's  opinion,  that  the  law  of  Muktza  lias 
no  foundation, 322-327 

CHAPTER   XXII. 

MiSHNA  I.  How  much  may  be  saved  from  a  broken  cask.  Concerning 
fruit  which  is  pressed  in  order  to  extract  the  juice.  Bunches  of  grapes  may  be 
pressed  into  the  cooking  pot  direct,  but  not  into  a  bowl.  According  to  biblical 
law  one  is  not  culpable  for  pressing  any  fruit,  with  the  exception  of  grapes 
and  olives.     Witnesses  testifying  from  hearsay  are  not  accredited,     328-331 

MiSHNA  II.  Concerning  eatables  that  are  dressed  with  hot  water.  The 
three  questions  propounded  by  R.  Hyya  bar  Aba:  "Why  are  the  fowls  of 
Babylon  so  fat  ?  Why  are  the  Babylonians  so  merry  during  the  festivals  ? 
Why  are  the  scholars  of  Babylon  so  well  dressed  ?  "  The  answers  of  R. 
Johanan  :  "  If  a  thing  is  as  certain  to  thee  as  the  fact  that  thou  canst  not 
marry  thy  own  sister,  then  say  it.     Otherwise,  say  it  not  !  "        .         331,  332 

MiSHNAS  III.  and  IV.  Concerning  the  breaking  open  of  a  cask  and  eating 
its  contents.     Rabh  shows  his  respect  for  his  pupils  R.   Kahana  and  R. 


xlvi  SYNOrSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

Ashi  by  refusing  to  sit  on  a  bolster  when  they  sat  on  the  ground.  Concern- 
ing the  depositing  of  victuals  in  a  cave.  Concerning  the  dusting  of  clothes 
on  Sabt)ath.  R.  Shesha's,  the  son  of  Idi,  tasteful  arrangement  of  his  cloak. 
The  narrative  of  R.  Dimi  in  the  name  of  and  regarding  Rabbi,      .      332-338 

MiSHNA  V.  Concerning  bathing  in  a  cavern  or  in  the  hot  springs  of  Tibe- 
rias. How  the  wine  of  Purgaitha  and  the  water  of  Deumseth  robbed  the 
Israelites  of  ten  tribes.  How  R.  Jehudah  had  a  pledge  taken  from  Rabba 
bar  bar  Hanna  to  insure  the  latter's  appearance  at  his  college,  and  the 
advantage  gained  by  R.  Jehudah  in  learning  a  new  Halakha,       .       338-341 

CHAPTER   XXni. 

MiSHNAS  I.  and  II.  Concerning  borrowing  and  lending.  Such  acts  as 
must  be  performed  on  festivals  should  be  performed  in  as  different  a  manner 
to  what  they  are  performed  on  week-days  as  possible.  Concerning  the  count- 
ing of  guests  and  dishes.  Casting  lots  at  meals.  A  man  on  whose  account 
another  is  punished  is  not  admitted  into  the  abode  of  the  Lord,     .      342-346 

MiSHNAS  III.,  IV.,  and  V.  Concerning  the  hiring  of  laborers  on  Sab- 
bath. The  rule  laid  down  by  Abba  Saul.  Concerning  the  transaction  of 
the  affairs  of  a  community  on  Sabbath.  The  betrothal  of  children  on  the 
Sabbath.  The  miracle  which  occurred  to  a  man  who  would  not  mend  a  fence 
of  his  field  on  Sabbath.  Concerning  waiting  at  the  techoom  on  account  of 
a  bride  or  a  corpse.  Concerning  the  performance  of  all  necessities  for  a 
corpse  on  Sabbath, 346-353 

MiSHNA  VI.  Closing  the  eyes  of  a  corpse  on  Sabbath.  Concerning  the 
closing  of  the  eyes  of  a  dying  person  on  a  week-day.  On  account  of  a  living 
child,  only  one  day  old,  the  Sabbath  may  be  violated;  but  not  even  for  David, 
King  of  Israel,  if  he  be  dead,  may  this  be  done.  A  living  child  one  day  old 
need  not  be  guarded  from  the  attacks  of  rats,  but  even  the  dead  body  of  Og, 
King  of  Bashan,  must  be  guarded  from  such  attacks.  Practise  charity 
when  the  opportunity  presents  itself  and  when  it  is  within  thy  reach. 
Poverty  is  compared  to  a  wheel  constantly  turning.  He  who  pities  living 
creatures  is  pitied  also  in  Heaven.  The  explanation  of  many  verses  in  Ec- 
clesiastes  regarding  the  human  body.  Why  R.  Hanina  did  not  weep  over 
the  death  of  his  daughter.  There  are  si.x  kinds  of  tears  which  are  shed  : 
three  good  and  three  bad.  The  dispute  of  Joshua  ben  Kar'ha  with  the 
eunuch.  Why  Barzillai  was  a  liar.  Worms  are  as  annoying  to  a  corpse  as 
a  needle  is  to  excrescences  on  the  flesh.  The  soul  of  a  man  mourns  for  the 
body  seven  days.  The  narrative  relating  to  R.  Jehudah  and  his  actions 
towards  a  stranger  who  died  in  his  vicinity.  "  Return  thy  soul  as  clean  as 
it  was  given  thee,"  and  the  parable  connected  with  the  statement.  The  con- 
versation between  R.  Na'hman  and  the  dead  body  of  R.  Ahai  ben  Yashi. 
The  bones  of  a  man  who  had  no  jealousy  in  his  heart  will  not  rot.  The  souls 
of  the  righteous  are  ensconced  underneath  the  throne  of  honor  a  twelvemonth 
after  leaving  the  body.  "  Make  my  funeral  sermon  impressive,  for  I  shall  be 
present."  To  repent  one  day  before  death  means  to  repent  every  day,  lest 
the  morrow  bring  death.  "  At  all  times  let  thy  garments  be  white,"  and  the 
parable  connected  with  it 353-362 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  xlvii 

CHAPTER   XXIV. 

MiSHNA  I.  Concerning  one  who  was  overtaken  by  dusk  en  the  eve  of 
Sabbath  while  on  the  road.  The  Sabbath  rest  must  be  kept  inviolate  as  far 
as  one's  animal  is  concerned,  but  one  is  not  responsible  for  the  Sabbath  rest 
of  a  Gentile.  An  additional  statement  concerning  the  Sabbath  rest,  which 
the  sages  would  not  reveal.  On  the  day  the  eighteen  precautionary  ordi- 
nances were  instituted,  according  to  the  opinion  of  some,  the  measure  of  laws 
was  made  heaping  full,  while,  according  to  others,  it  was  not  filled  enough. 
The  examples  connected  with  this  statement.  Why  R.  Gamaliel  allowed  his 
ass  to  drop  dead  under  a  load 363-367 

MiSHNAS  II.,  III.,  and  IV.  Concerning  the  untieing  of  straw  for  cattle. 
Concerning  the  cramming  of  camels,  calves,  poultry,  and  doves.  Kneading 
on  Sabbath.  The  fate  of  those  born  on  the  different  days  of  the  week,  accord- 
ing to  the  diary  of  R.  Jehoshua  ben  Levi.  The  seven  planets  guiding  the 
destiny  of  man.  Designation  (Muktza)  on  account  of  filth  and  on  account  of 
expensive  articles.     Concerning  the  cutting  up  of  pumpkins  and  carrion, 

367-376 

MiSHNA  V.  What  vows  may  be  annulled  on  Sabbath.  Whether  a  vow 
may  be  annulled  before  the  expiration  of  twenty-four  hours  after  one  hears  it 
pronounced,  or  only  during  the  same  day.  How  consultation  concerning 
vows  must  be  had.  Should  aChacham  (sage)  only  be  consulted,  or  will  three 
ordinary  men  suffice  for  that  purpose  ?  How  vows  are  to  be  annulled  on 
Sabbath.  By  thought  or  by  word  of  mouth  ;  may  one  say  merely  :  "  Go,  eat 
and  drink  !  "  The  sages  comply  with  the  request  of  Mar  Zutra  and  annul  his 
vow  on  a  Sabbath.  How  water  for  ritual  purposes  may  be  measured  on 
Sabbath.  What  happened  to  Ula  at  the  house  of  the  Exilarch  regarding  the 
measuring  of  water  in  a  bath,        .......        376-378 

CUSTOMARY   CONCLUDING  PRAYER. 
Epigraph.     Translator's  remarks, 379,  380 

APPENDIX.* 

Concerning  the  eighteen  regulations  enacted  in  the  attic  of  Hananiah  ben 
Hizkyah  ben  Garon.  Their  importance  and  influence  on  the  government  of 
the  Jews.     The  degeneracy  of  priestdom,    .....         381-390 

*We  would  call  the  attention  of  the  reader  to  the  appendix  of  this  volume,  which 
will  prove  interesting  to  the  general  reader  and  present  something  heretofore  un- 
published to  the  student  of  the  Talmud. 


TRACT  SABBATH. 


CHAPTER   XI. 

REGULATIONS  CONCERNING  THROWING  FROM  ONE  GROUND  INTO 

ANOTHER. 

MISHNA:  One  who  throws  a  thing  from  private  into  public 
or  from  public  into  private  ground  is  culpable.  From  private 
into  private  ground,  by  way  of  public  ground,  R.  Aqiba  holds 
him  to  be  culpable,  but  the  sages  declare  him  free.  How  so? 
If  two  balconies  face  each  other  across  a  street,  one  who  trans- 
fers or  throws  something  from  one  into  the  other  is  free ;  if  the 
two  balconies,  however,  are  in  the  same  building,  he  who  trans- 
fers a  thing  from  one  into  the  other  is  culpable,  but  he  who 
throws  is  free;  because  the  work  of  the  Levites  (in  the  taber- 
nacle) was  as  follows :  From  two  wagons  facing  each  other  in 
public  ground  boards  were  transferred,  but  not  thrown  from  one 
into  the  other. 

GEMARA:  Let  us  see!  Throwing  is  but  the  offspring 
of  transferring.  Where  is  transfer  itself  mentioned  in  the 
Scriptures?  Said  R.  Johanan :  "It  is  written  [Ex.  xxxvi.  6]: 
*  And  Moses  gave  the  command  and  they  caused  it  to  be  pro- 
claimed throughout  the  camp,'  etc.  Where  was  Moses  sitting  ? 
In  the  quarters  of  the  Levites.  The  quarters  of  the  Levites 
was  public  ground  (because  all  the  people  were  received  there 
by  Moses).  And  Moses  said  unto  Israel :  '  Ye  shall  not  trans- 
fer anything  from  your  quarters  (which  was  private  ground) 
into  these  quarters.*  "  We  have  found,  then,  transfer  from 
within,  but  where  do  we  find  transfer  from  without  ?  It  is  a 
logical  conclusion,  that  transfer  from  within  is  the  same  as 
transfer  from  without.  Still  he  calls  transfer  from  within  the 
principal  act  and  transfer  from  without  but  the  offspring.  Now, 
if  transferring  from  within  and  transferring  from  without  in- 
volve the  same  degree  of  culpability,  why  does  he  call  the  one 
VOL.  n. — I  i8g 


190  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD, 

a  principal  and  the  other  an  offspring  ?  For  the  following 
reason :  If  one  commit  two  principal  acts  of  labor,  or  two  off- 
springs of  two  different  acts  of  labor,  he  becomes  bound  to 
bring  two  sin-offerings;  but  if  he  commits  one  principal  act 
and  one  offspring  of  the  same  act  of  labor,  he  becomes  bound 
to  bring  only  one  sin-offering. 

Whence  do  we  know  that  if  one  throw  a  thing  four  ells  in 
public  ground  he  is  culpable  ?  All  that  is  said  about  four  ells  in 
public  ground  is  traditional. 

R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  The  wood-gath- 
erer's sin  [mentioned  in  Numbers  xv.  32-35]  consisted  in  carry- 
ing four  ells  in  public  ground.  We  learned  in  a  Boraitha,  how- 
ever, that  he  pulled  out  sticks  growing  in  the  ground.  R.  Aha 
b.  R.  Jacob  said :  He  gathered  the  sticks  and  bound  them  into 
bundles.  What  difference  is  there  in  the  acts  ?  (Why  this  dis- 
sension ?)  The  difference  is,  as  we  were  taught  in  the  name  of 
Rabh,  who  says:  "  I  found  a  mysterious  paper  in  the  possession 
of  my  uncle,  R.  Hyya,  upon  which  was  written :  '  Aissi  ben 
Jehudah  said:  The  principal  acts  of  labor  are  forty  less  one. 
One  of  them  does  not  involve  culpability.  R.  Jehudah  holds,  that 
carrying  in  public  ground  is  not  this  one  act  and  the  Boraitha 
holds  that  pulling  out  of  the  ground  is  not  that  one,  and  R. 
Aha  b.  R.  Jacob  holds  that  binding  into  bundles  is  not  the 
act  which  involves  culpability.'  Each  one  of  these  three  was 
certain  that  if  a  man  committed  any  of  the  acts  mentioned  by 
each  he  was  undoubtedly  culpable." 

The  rabbis  taught :  The  name  of  the  wood-gatherer  was 
Zelophchad,  and  so  it  is  written  [Numb.  xv.  32]:  "  And  while 
the  children  of  Israel  were  in  the  wilderness  they  found  a  man," 
etc.,  and  further  on  [ibid,  xxvii.  3]  it  is  written:  "  Our  father 
died  in  the  wilderness,' 'qIc,  etc.,  "  but  in  his  own  sin  he  died," 
etc.,  an  analogy  of  the  word  wilderness.  As  by  "our  father  "  is 
meant  Zelophchad,  so  also  the  name  of  the  wood-gatherer  was 
Zelophchad.  So  said  R.  Aqiba.  Said  to  him  R.  Jehudah  b. 
Bathyra:  "Aqiba!  Whether  your  statement  be  true  or  false, 
you  will  have  to  answer  for  it  at  the  time  of  the  divine  judgment ; 
for  if  it  be  true,  you  disclosed  the  name  of  the  man  whom 
the  Scriptures  desired  to  shield,  and  thus  you  brought  him 
into  infamy,  and  if  it  be  false  you  slandered  a  man  who  was 
upright."  The  same  case  occurred  in  the  following:  It  is  writ- 
ten [Numb.  xii.  9] :  "  And  the  anger  of  the  Lord  was  kindled 
against  them,"  etc.     From  this  we  learn  that  Aaron  also  became 


TRACT   SABBATH.  191 

leprous.  So  said  R.  Aqiba.  Said  to  him  R.  Jehudah  b.  Ba- 
thyra:  "  Aqiba!  Whether  your  statement  be  true  or  false,  you 
will  have  to  answer  for  it  at  the  divine  judgment ;  for  if  it  be 
true,  you  disclosed  a  thing  the  Scriptures  desired  to  conceal, 
and  thus  you  brought  infamy  upon  Aaron,  and  if  it  be  false,  you 
slandered  a  man  who  was  upright."  But  the  Scriptures  say: 
"  And  the  anger  of  the  Lord  was  kindled  against  them.''  This 
signifies  only  that  Aaron  was  included  among  those  against 
whom  the  anger  of  the  Lord  was  kindled. 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha  according  to  the  opinion  of 
R,  Aqiba:"  Aaron  also  became  leprous,  as  it  is  written:  '  And 
Aaron  turned  toward  Miriam,  and  behold  she  was  leprous,' 
which  implies  that  at  the  moment  when  he  turned  toward  Miriam 
he  was  cured  of  his  leprosy  and  perceived  it  in  Miriam." 

Said  Resh  Lakish :  He  who  suspects  an  innocent  man  is  pun- 
ished in  the  flesh,  as  it  is  written  [Ex.  iv.  i]  : "  But  behold,  they 
will  not  believe  me,"  and  it  was  known  to  the  Holy  One, 
blessed  be  He,  that  Israel  will  believe,  and  the  Lord  said  unto 
Moses:  "  They  are  believers  and  they  are  children  of  believers, 
but  thou,  I  know,  wilt  finally  not  believe."  They  are  believers, 
as  it  is  written  [ibid.  iv.  31]:  "And  the  people  believed." 
They  are  children  of  believers,  as  it  is  written  [Gen.  xv.  6]  : 
"  And  he  believed  in  the  Lord."  Thou  wilt  finally  not  believe, 
as  it  is  written  [Numb.  xx.  12] :  "  Moses  and  Aaron,  because  ye 
have  not  confided  in  me;  "  and  whence  do  we  know  that  he  was 
punished  in  the  flesh,  as  it  is  written  [Ex.  iv.  6]:  "And  the 
Lord  said  furthermore  unto  him.  Do  put  thy  hand  into  thy 
bosom ;  and  he  put  his  hand  into  his  bosom ;  and  when  he  took 
it  out,  behold,  his  hand  was  leprous,  white  as  snow." 

Rabha  said,  according  to  others,  R.  Jose  b.  Hanina:  Reward 
for  merit,  destined  for  a  man,  comes  to  him  more  quickly  and  in 
a  greater  degree  than  retribution  for  wickedness,  for  in  the  case 
of  Moses  we  see  it  written  [Exod.  iv.  6]:  "And  he  put  his 
hand  into  his  bosom;  and  when  he  took  it  out,  behold,  his  hand 
was  leprous,  white  as  snow."  But  the  reward  was,  as  it  is  writ- 
ten [ibid.  7],  "  And  when  he  pulled  it  out  of  his  bosom,  behold, 
it  was  turned  again  as  his  other  flesh."  The  reason  that  the 
verse  repeats  "  pulled  it  out  of  his  bosom,''  is  to  show,  that  the 
hand  had  become  cured  w^hile  in  the  bosom  (and  thus  the  reward 
was  given  more  quickly  and  effectively).  It  is  written  [Ex.  vii. 
12]:  "Aaron's  staff  swallowed  up  their  staves."  Said  R. 
Elazar:  "  This  was  a  miracle  within  a  miracle,  for  Aaron's  stafT 


192  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

did  not  swallow  up  the  staves  (of  the  Egyptian  magicians),  which 
had  become  serpents,  while  it  was  itself  a  serpent,  but  after  it 
was  become  a  staff  again." 

"  From  private  ground  into  private  ground,''  etc.  Rabha 
propounded  a  question:  "  Shall  we  assume  that  the  point  of 
difference  is  in  the  opinion  relating  to  whether  the  surrounding 
of  a  thing  by  the  atmosphere  of  a  certain  place  makes  the  thing 
equal  to  being  deposited  in  that  place  or  not  ?  "  And  if  this  is 
the  point  of  difference,  it  must  follow  that  the  Mishna  treats  of 
a  case  where  the  object  thrown  was  at  no  time  above  ten  spans 
from  the  ground  (because  above  ten  spans  no  public  ground 
exists).  Those  who  deem  it  a  culpable  act,  do  so,  because 
they  hold  that  the  object,  being  surrounded  by  the  air  of  the 
public  ground,  through  which  it  passed,  makes  it  equal  to  being 
deposited  therein,  while  those  who  do  not  deem  it  a  culpable  act 
are  not  of  this  opinion ;  but  if  the  object  thrown  was  above  ten 
spans  from  the  ground,  do  both  sides  agree  that  the  thrower  is 
not  culpable  ?  Or  shall  we  assume  that  both  sides  do  not  differ 
as  to  the  object  thrown  being  equal  to  being  deposited  in  the 
place,  the  atmosphere  of  which  surrounded  it,  agreeing  that 
such  is  the  case;  but  their  point  of  difference  is  as  to  whether 
throwing  is  equal  to  transfer  or  not  ?  He  who  holds  that  the 
thrower  is  culpable  does  so  because  he  considers  throwing  equal 
to  transfer  by  hand,  and  as  transfer  makes  a  man  culpable,  even 
if  it  was  accomplished  above  ten  spans  from  the  ground.  It 
also  applies  to  throwing;  but  he  who  holds  that  the  thrower  is 
not  culpable,  does  so  because  he  does  not  consider  throwing 
equal  to  transfer  by  hand.  And  the  case  treated  of  by  the 
Mishna  is  one  where  the  throwing  was  done  above  ten  spans 
from  the  ground?  Said  R.  Joseph:  This  question  was  also 
propounded  by  R.  Hisda,  and  R.  Hamnuna  decided  it  from  the 
following  Boraitha:  "  From  private  into  private  ground,  by  way 
of  public  ground  itself,  R.  Aqiba  makes  him  culpable,  but  the 
sages  declare  him  free."  Now,  if  he  says,  "  by  way  of  public 
ground  itself,'"  it  implies  that  it  was  below  ten  spans  from  the 
ground.  Let  us  then  see  wherein  was  the  difference  of  opinion. 
Shall  we  say  that  it  was  a  case  of  transfer  by  hand  and  still 
the  one  who  holds  him  culpable  does  so  because  it  was  below  ten 
spans,  but  if  it  was  above  ten  spans  he  would  concede  that  he 
was  not  culpable  ?  How  can  this  be  ?  Did  not  R.  Elazar  say: 
He  who  transfers  a  burden  above  ten  spans  from  the  ground  is 
culpable,  because  thus  were  burdens  transferred  by  the  sons  of 


TRACT   SABBATH.  193 

Kehath  "  ?  Therefore  we  must  assume  that  the  Boraitha  treats 
of  a  case  of  throwing  and  not  of  transfer  by  hand,  and  hence 
one  holds,  that  an  object  surrounded  by  the  atmosphere  of  a 
certain  place  below  ten  spans  from  the  ground  is  equal  to  an 
object  deposited  in  that  place,  while  the  other  holds  that  such 
is  not  the  case.  Conclude  then  from  this  that  the  Mishna  treats 
of  a  case  where  the  throwing  was  done  below  ten  spans  from  the 
ground. 

The  above  teaching,  however,  is  not  in  accord  with  the  opin- 
ion of  R.  Elazar,  for  he  said :  R.  Aqiba  makes  the  thrower  cul- 
pable even  when  the  throwing  was  done  above  ten  spans  from 
the  ground;  but  for  what  purpose  does  the  Boraitha  state  "  pub- 
lic ground  itself  ?  Merely  to  show  the  firmness  of  the  rabbis 
in  declaring  one  free,  even  when  he  transferred  a  thing  by  hand 
through  public  ground. 

All  that  was  said  above  is  contrary  to  the  opinion  of  R. 
Helkiah  b.  Tubhi,  because  he  said:  "  If  the  throwing  was  below 
three  spans  from  the  ground,  all  agree  that  the  thrower  is  culpa- 
ble; if  above  ten  spans,  all  agree  that  he  is  not  culpable;  but  if 
the  throwing  was  done  between  three  and  ten  spans  above  the 
ground,  then  the  difference  of  opinion  between  R.  Aqiba  and 
the  sages  arises."  We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha  in  support  of 
R.  Helkiah:  "  Below  three  all  agree  that  one  is  culpable;  above 
ten  all  agree  (that  only  a  rabbinical  prohibition  exists)  as  a  pre- 
cautionary measure  (because  no  Erubh  was  made).'-  If  the  two 
premises  belonged  to  the  thrower,  he  may  throw  to  start  with. 
From  three  to  ten  spans  is  where  the  point  of  difference  between 
R,  Aqiba  and  the  sages  arises. 

It  is  certain,  that  if  it  is  one's  intention  to  throw  eight  ells 
and  he  throws  only  four,  one  is  culpable;  because  it  is  equivalent 
to  the  case  where  one  intends  to  write  the  name  Simeon  and 
only  writes  Sim  (for  Sim  alone  is  also  a  name,  and  four  ells  is  the 
prescribed  distance  for  throwing) ;  but  what  is  not  certain  is,  if 
one  intended  to  throw  only  four  ells  and  threw  eight,  what  is  his 
case?  Shall  we  assume  that  he  threw  the  prescribed  distance  and 
is  thus  culpable,  or,  because  the  object  did  not  reach  the  desired 
destination,  he  is  not  culpable  ?  The  answer  was,  that  accord- 
ing to  this  question  Rabhina  asked  R.  Ashi,  and  the  latter 
answered  that  no  culpability  can  exist  unless  he  intended  that 
the  object  should  remain  wherever  it  happened  to  alight,  i.e.,  if 

*  The  law  concerning  Erubhin  will  be  explained  in  Tract  Erubhin. 


194  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

the  man  intended  to  throw  eight  ells  and  threw  only  four  he  is 
also  not  culpable,  and  the  assertion  that  the  last-named  act  is 
equivalent  to  writing  Sim  when  the  intention  was  to  write 
Simeon,  which  according  to  the  succeeding  Mishna  is  an  act 
involving  culpability,  does  not  hold  good ;  for  he  cannot  write 
Simeon  without  first  writing  Sim,  but  surely  he  can  throw  eight 
ells  without  previously  throwing  four  ells. 

The  rabbis  taught:  If  one  threw  from  public  into  public 
ground  and  private  ground  was  in  between,  and  the  four  ells 
commenced  and  ended  in  the  two  public  grounds,  including  the 
private  ground,  he  is  culpable  ;  but  if  he  threw  less  than  four  ells 
he  is  not  culpable.  What  news  does  this  convey  to  us  ?  It  is 
to  inform  us,  that  the  different  premises  are  counted  together  and 
that  the  culpability  arises  not  from  the  fact  that  the  atmosphere 
of  the  private  ground,  having  surrounded  the  object  thrown, 
makes  that  object  equal  to  having  been  deposited  in  that  private 
ground ;  because  that  ordinance  does  not  hold  good,  and  the 
culpability  arises  merely  from  throwing  four  ells  in  public 
ground. 

R.  Samuel  b.  Jehudah,  quoting  R.  Abba,  who  quoted  R. 
Huna  in  the  name  of  Rabh,  said:  If  one  transferred  an  object 
for  four  ells  in  a  roofed  public  ground,  he  is  not  culpable.  Why 
so  ?  Because  this  public  ground  is  not  equal  to  the  public 
ground  under  the  standards  in  the  desert  traversed  by  the  Israel- 
ites. This  is  not  so !  We  know  that  the  wagons  which  carried 
the  boards  of  the  tabernacle  were  roofed,  and  Rabh  said  in  the 
name  of  R.  Hyya  that  the  ground  beneath  the  wagons,  between 
them,  or  alongside  of  them,  was  all  public.  Rabh  means  to 
state  that  the  wagons  were  not  actually  covered,  but  that  the 
boards  were  placed  crossways  on  them  in  layers,  and  between 
every  layer  there  was  uncovered  space,  and  that  space  was,  in 
the  opinion  of  Rabh,  public  ground. 

The  rabbis  taught :  The  boards  used  at  the  tabernacle  were 
one  ell  thick  and  sloped  gradually  until  they  attained  the  thick- 
ness of  one  finger  at  one  end,  as  it  is  written  [Ex.  xxvi.  24] : 
"  And  they  shall  be  closely  joined  together  on  top  by  means  of 
one  ring,"  and  in  another  passage  [Joshua  iii.  16]  it  is  written, 
"  failed,  were  cut  off."*  So  said  R.  Jehuda.  Hence  it  is  evi- 
dent that  on  top  the  boards  were  only  one  finger  thick.  R. 
Nehemiah  says:  "  They  were  also  one  ell  thick  on  top,  as  it  is 

*  The  Hebrew  term  for  "  cut  off  "  in  that  passage  is  Tamu,  and  for  "  joined  "  in 
the  previous  passage  it  is  "  Tamim"  ;  hence  the  comparison  by  analogy. 


TRACT   SABBATH.  195 

written  [ibid,  ibid.],  'joined  together,'  and  the  '  together  '  means 
that  they  were  to  be  the  same  on  top  and  on  the  bottom. 
But  it  says  '  joined  '  (Tamim) !  The  Tamim  here  signifies  that 
they  must  be  whole,  unbroken. 

The  school  of  R.  Ishmael  taught :  To  what  can  the  tabernacle 
be  compared  ?  To  a  woman  going  to  market,  whose  dress  hangs 
down  and  drags  on  the  ground  [i.e.,  the  curtains  were  hanging 
down  and  dragging  on  the  ground). 

The  rabbis  taught:  The  boards  of  the  tabernacle  came  to  a 
point  and  the  thresholds  contained  sockets  on  which  the  boards 
were  fitted.  The  hooks  and  fillets  of  the  curtains  appeared  like 
stars  in  the  sky. 

The  rabbis  taught :  The  lower  curtains  were  of  blue,  purple, 
and  scarlet  yarn  and  of  twisted  linen  thread,  and  the  upper  cur- 
tains were  of  goats'  hair,  and  more  skill  was  necessary  to  make 
the  curtains  of  goats'  hair  than  of  the  first-named  materials,  for 
concerning  the  lower  curtains  it  is  written  :  "  And  all  the  women 
that  were  wise-hearted  spun  with  their  hands,  and  they  brought 
that  which  they  had  spun  of  the  blue,  and  of  the  purple,  and  of 
the  scarlet  yarn,  and  of  the  linen  thread";  but  concerning  the 
upper  curtains  it  is  written  [ibid.  26]:  "And  all  the  women 
whose  hearts  stirred  them  up  in  wisdom  spun  the  goats'  hair." 
And  we  have  learned  in  the  name  of  R.  Nehemiah,  "  The  goats' 
hair  was  woven  right  from  the  goats'  backs  without  being 
shorn." 

"  If  the  two  balconies,''  etc.  Said  Rabh  in  the  name  of  R. 
Hyya:  "  The  space  between  the  wagons,  beneath  the  wagons, 
and  alongside  of  them  is  public  ground."  Said  Abayi :  "  The 
space  between  two  wagons  was  the  length  of  another  wagon  ? 
What  is  the  length  of  a  wagon  ?  Five  ells.  Rabha  said  the 
sides  of  the  wagon  {i.e.,  the  width  between  the  sides)  was  the 
width  of  a  wagon.  What  is  that  width  ?  Two  and  one-half 
ells.  Now,  we  know  that  the  width  of  a  way  in  public  ground 
is  sixteen  ells.  Whence  do  we  adduce  this  ?  If  we  adduce  this 
from  the  case  of  the  tabernacle,  it  should  only  be  fifteen  ells; 
(for  the  width  of  two  wagons  together  with  the  space  between 
them  was  fifteen  ells).  The  answer  is :  There  was  another  ell 
additional  between  the  two  wagoijs  where  the  Levite  walked  in 
order  that  he  might  watch  the  wagons  and  adjust  anything  that 
might  come  out  of  place." 

MISHNA  :  One  who  takes  anything  from,  or  places  anything 
upon  a  sand-heap,  dug  out  of  a  pit  or  a  stone  that  is  ten  spans 


196  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

high  and  four  spans  wide,  is  culpable.  If  the  sand-heap  or  the 
stone  is  below  that  height,  he  is  free. 

GEMARA:  Why  does  the  Mishna  say  a  sand-heap,  dug  out 
of  a  pit,  or  a  stone  ?  Why  not  the  pit  or  the  stone  itself  ?  (Then 
we  would  know  both  the  height  and  depth  which  must  not  be 
used  for  the  placing  of  a  thing.)  This  was  said  in  support  of 
the  statement  of  R.  Johanan,  viz. :  That  the  sand-heap  dug  out 
of  a  pit  is  counted  in  with  the  depth  of  the  pit  as  to  height  to 
complete  the  ten  spans.  We  have  also  learned  thus  in  a  Bora- 
itha:  One  must  not  draw  water  from  a  pit  in  public  ground 
which  is  ten  spans  deep  and  four  spans  wide,  unless  he  has  made 
a  railing  round  the  pit  that  is  ten  spans  high.  He  must  also  not 
drink  from  the  pit  unless  he  put  his  head  and  the  larger  portion 
of  his  body  into  it.  The  pit  and  the  sand-heap  dug  out  of  the 
pit  are  counted  in  with  it  to  complete  the  ten  spans. 

R.  Mordecai  asked  of  Rabha:  What  is  the  law  regarding  one 
who  threw  a  thing  on  a  post  ten  spans  high  and  four  spans 
wide,  standing  in  public  ground  ?  Shall  we  assume  that  he  is 
culpable  because  he  removed  the  thing  unlawfully  and  also 
deposited  it  unlawfully  {i.e.,  from  public  ground  into  private), 
or  that  he  is  not  culpable  because  the  object  which  hghted  on 
the  post  came  from  ground  which  is  under  no  jurisdiction, 
being  above  ten  spans  from  the  ground  ?  (If  the  man  had  the 
intention  to  throw  the  object  on  top  of  the  post,  he  must  have 
thrown  it  high  up  into  the  air,  and  before  lighting  on  the  post  it 
passed  through  space  above  ten  spans  from  the  ground,  and  that 
space  is  regarded  as  ground  under  no  jurisdiction,  therefore  he 
is  not  culpable  ?)  Rabha  answered:  "  This  is  explained  in  the 
Mishna."  R.  Mordecai  then  went  to  R.  Joseph  and  asked  the 
same  question.  He  received  the  same  answer:  "  It  is  explained 
in  the  Mishna."  Thereupon  he  came  to  Abayi  with  the  same 
question,  and  again  received  the  same  answer.  Said  R.  Mor- 
decai to  Abayi:  "Do  ye  all  spit  with  the  same  spittle?" 
Answered  Abayi :  Dost  not  thou  think  that  the  Mishna  explains 
it  ?  Did  not  the  Mishna  say,  "  One  who  takes  from  or  places 
upon"  ?  Rejoined  R.  Mordecai:  "  Perhaps  the  Mishna  treats 
of  a  needle  which  can  be  placed  on  a  level  with  the  ten  spans 
height."  Said  Abayi:  "  A  needle  must  also  be  lifted  above  the 
level."  Said  R.  Mordecai  again:  "It  can  be  placed  without 
being  lifted  above  the  level,  because  every  stone  has  some  crev- 
ices that  are  lower  than  the  surface  of  the  stone  and  the  needle 
can  be  placed  in  one  of  the  crevices." 


TRACT   SABBATH.  197 

R.  Johanan  propounded  a  question:  "What  is  the  law 
regarding  a  man  who  throws  a  cake  of  earth  (four  spans  square 
and  one  span  deep)  into  a  pit  exactly  ten  spans  deep  and  four 
spans  square  ?  Shall  we  say,  that  he  is  culpable  because  he 
threw  the  cake  of  earth  into  the  pit,  which  was  still  ten  spans 
deep  and  therefore  private  ground,  or  that  he  is  not  culpable 
because  as  soon  as  the  cake  reached  the  bottom  of  the  pit  it 
lessened  the  pit's  height  to  nine  spans,  and  thus  made  the  pit 
unclaimed  ground?"  Let  R.  Johanan  decide  this  question 
himself  by  what  he  said  in  the  following  Mishna:  "  If  one  throw 
a  thing  from  a  distance  of  four  ells  against  the  wall,  and  it 
strikes  the  wall  at  a  height  of  over  ten  spans  from  the  ground, 
he  is  free,  but  if  below  ten  spans  from  the  ground  he  is  culpable, 
because  one  who  throws  a  thing  to  the  ground  at  a  distance  of 
four  ells  is  culpable."  We  have  investigated  the  case;  how  can 
he  be  culpable  if  the  object  thrown  did  not  adhere  to  the  wall  ? 
And  R.  Johanan  answered:  "  The  case  was  one  of  a  soft  date, 
which  did  adhere  to  the  wall."  Now,  if  the  conclusion  is  that 
the  cake  of  earth  lessened  the  depth  of  the  pit,  the  date  which 
adhered  to  the  wall  also  lessened  the  distance  of  four  ells  from 
where  the  date  was  thrown,  and  he  says  that  the  man  is  culpable  ? 
The  answer  was :  In  the  case  of  the  date  the  thrower  did  not 
intend  that  the  date  should  adhere  to  the  wall  permanently, 
while  in  the  case  of  the  pit  the  cake  of  earth  remained  in  the 
pit  permanently,  as  intended  by  the  thrower, 

Abayi  said:  If  a  man  throw  a  mat  into  a  pit  ten  spans  deep 
and  eight  spans  wide  in  public  ground  he  is  culpable.  If  he, 
however,  placed  the  mat  into  the  pit  so  that  the  pit  was  divided 
into  two  equal  parts,  he  is  not  culpable.  (The  latter  decree 
informs  us  of  two  facts :  Firstly,  that  although  the  mat  was 
placed  in  the  pit,  while  the  pit  was  still  of  sufificient  size  to  con- 
stitute it  private  ground  and  was  only  diminished  at  the  time  the 
mat  was  placed  into  it,  the  man  is  not  culpable,  and  secondly, 
that  the  mat  takes  up  sufificient  space  to  make  the  two  pits 
caused  by  division  less  than  four  spans  wide  each.)  Now,  if, 
according  to  Abayi,  it  is  a  certainty  that  the  mat  is  sufificient  to 
nullify  the  enclosures  necessary  for  the  designation  of  private 
ground,  so  much  the  more  is  this  the  case  with  the  cake  of  earth 
previously  mentioned,  but  according  to  R.  Johanan,  to  whom  it 
is  even  questionable  whether  the  cake  of  earth  can  produce  that 
effect,  surely  a  mat  cannot. 

Abayi  said  again:  If  a  man  throw  an  object  into  a  pit  ten 


ipS  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

spans  deep  and  four  spans  wide,  filled  with  water  and  standing 
in  public  ground,  he  is  culpable,  but  if  the  pit  was  filled  with 
fruit,  he  is  not  culpable;  because  water  does  not  annul  the  en- 
closures necessaiy  for  the  designation  of  private  ground,  while 
fruit  does  (the  reason  is  that  an  object  thrown  into  a  pit  of  water 
falls  to  the  ground  in  spite  of  the  water  [viz.  :  a  stone  or  iron], 
while  in  a  pit  filled  with  fruit  it  rests  on  top).*  We  also  learned 
the  same  in  a  Boraitha,  in  the  name  of  R.  Simeon:  "Water 
does  not  annul  the  enclosures  necessary  for  the  designation  of 
private  ground." 

MISHNA:  If  one  throw  a  thing  (a  soft  date)  from  a  distance 
of  four  ells  against  the  wall,  and  it  strike  the  wall  at  a  height  of 
over  ten  spans  from  the  ground,  he  is  free ;  but  if  it  strike  the 
wall  below  ten  spans  from  the  ground,  he  is  culpable ;  because 
one  who  throws  a  thing  to  the  ground  at  a  distance  of  four  ells 
is  culpable. 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Jehudah,  quoting  Rabh  in  the  name  of 
R.  Hyya:  If  one  throw  a  thing  at  a  distance  of  four  ells  against 
a  wall,  and  the  thing  rested  in  a  hole  in  the  wall  above  ten  spans 
from  the  ground,  the  law  in  his  case  is  decided  differently  by  R. 
Meir  and  the  sages,  viz.  :  R.  Meir  holds,  that  any  object  (like  a 
hole)  capable  of  being  enlarged,  must  be  looked  upon  as  having 
been  already  enlarged,  and  therefore  the  man  is  culpable.  The 
sages,  however,  hold  that  such  is  not  the  case ;  everything  must 
be  regarded  in  its  actual  condition. 

R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  If  a  man  throw  a 
thing  upon  a  sand-heap  four  ells  wide  and  sloping  up  to  a  height 
of  ten  spans,  he  is  culpable,  provided  the  thing  rested  on  the 
highest  point  of  the  heap,  because  the  heap  is  regarded  as  being 
ten  spans  high  in  its  entire  length.  The  same  we  have  learned 
in  a  Boraitha  in  the  name  of  R.  Hanina  ben  Gamaliel. 

MISHNA:  If  one  threw  an  object  within  four  ells  (in  public 
ground)  and  the  object  rolled  to  a  greater  distance,  he  is  free ;  if 
he  threw  a  thing  outside  of  four  ells  and  it  rolled  back  within 
four  ells,  he  is  culpable. 

GEMARA :  Why  should  a  man  be  culpable  in  the  latter 
clause  of  the  Mishna;  the  object  thrown  did  not  rest  outside 
of  four  ells  if  it  rolled  back  within  the  prescribed  limit  ?     Said 

*  So  explains  Rashi  (Isaakides) ;  we  think,  however,  the  reason  that  water  does 
not  annul  the  enclosures  is,  because  water  belongs  to  the  public  and  any  one  can  draw 
it  out,  and  therefore  it  is  equal  to  not  bein^  there  ;  but,  fruits  must  belong  to  a  pri- 
vate individual  and  this  makes  it  private  ground. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  199 

R.  Johanan :  The  Mishna  treats  of  a  case  where  the  object 
thrown  came  in  contact  with  an  obstacle  by  means  of  which  it 
rolled  back,  and  therefore  it  rested  for  a  moment  outside  of  four 
ells. 

Rabha  said:  "  In  the  opinion  of  the  sages,  who  differ  with 
R.  Aqiba  concerning  his  decree,  that  an  object  surrounded  by 
the  atmosphere  of  a  certain  place  makes  the  object  equal  to 
having  been  deposited  in  that  place,  a  man  who  threw  a  thing 
from  private  into  private  ground  by  way  of  public  ground,  even 
below  three  spans  from  the  ground,  is  not  culpable  unless  the 
thing  thrown  rested  for  a  moment  at  least  on  the  public  ground." 
Mareimar  sat  and  repeated  the  above  decree.  Said  Rabhina : 
"  Does  not  our  Mishna  say  the  same,  through  the  declaration  of 
R.  Johanan,  who  decrees  that  the  Mishna  holds  a  man  culpable 
only  if  the  object  thrown  by  the  man  rests  at  its  destination  for 
a  moment  ?"  Answered  Mareimar:  Thou  speakest  of  a  rolling 
thing  (which  is  carried  along  by  the  wind  and  it  is  not  known 
when  it  will  stand  still).  Such  a  thing  cannot  be  regarded  as 
resting,  although  it  is  below  three  spans  from  the  ground,  but  in 
our  case  it  is  different.  The  thing  was  thrown  (and  was  not 
rolled  by  the  wind);  so  we  might  assume  that  when  it  reached  a 
distance  of  less  than  three  spans  from  the  ground,  it  must  be 
considered  as  resting  on  the  ground ;  he  informs  us  (that  such  is 
not  the  case). 

MISHNA:  If  one  throw  a  distance  of  four  ells  on  the  sea, 
he  is  free ;  if  there  happen  to  be  shallow  water,  through  which 
a  public  thoroughfare  leads,  where  he  threw  the  four  ells,  he  is 
culpable.  What  must  be  the  maximum  depth  of  such  shallow 
water  ?  Less  than  ten  spans ;  for  one  who  throws  four  ells  in  shal- 
low water,  through  which  only  occasionally  a  public  thorough- 
fare leads,  is  culpable. 

GEMARA:  Said  one  of  the  schoolmen  to  Rabha:  "The 
Mishna  mentioning  a  public  thoroughfare  twice  is  justified  in 
doing  so,  because  we  might  presume  that  a  thoroughfare  used 
only  in  cases  of  necessity  cannot  be  regarded  as  a  public  thor- 
oughfare, and  hence  the  Mishna  informs  us  that  while  in  other 
cases  use  from  necessity  is  not  to  be  regarded  as  customary,  in 
this  case  it  is  different.  But  why  is  shallow  water  mentioned 
twice  ?  "  Answered  Abayi :  Wo  might  presume  that  the  shallow 
water  was  not  four  ells  wide,  in  which  case  it  would  be  used  as  a 
thoroughfare;  but  if  it  was  four  ells,  people  would  circumvene  it, 
and   thus   it  would   not  be  considered   a  public    thoroughfare; 


200  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

therefore  it  is  repeated  to  inform  us  that  there  is  no  difference 
between  shallow  water  less  than  four  ells  wide  or  more, 

MISHNA:  One  who  throws  from  the  sea  into  land,  from 
land  into  the  sea,  from  the  sea  into  a  ship,  from  a  ship  into  the 
sea,  or  from  one  ship  into  another,  is  free.  If  ships  are  bound 
together,  one  may  transfer  an  object  from  one  into  the  other; 
but  if  the  ships  are  not  bound  together,  even  though  they  lie 
alongside  of  one  another  (and  meet),  one  must  not  transfer  a 
thing  from  one  into  the  other. 

GEMARA:  We  have  learned:  If  one  desires  to  draw  water 
from  the  sea  into  the  ship,  he  must  make  a  small  (board)  attach- 
ment to  the  side  of  the  ship,  and  then  he  can  draw  the  water. 
So  said  R.  Huna,  because  he  holds  that  unclaimed  ground  com- 
mences from  the  bottom  of  the  sea  and  ends  with  the  surface. 
The  atmosphere  above  the  sea  is  considered  as  ground  under  no 
jurisdiction,  and  hence  the  making  of  the  attachment  was 
really  not  necessary;  but  it  being  Sabbath,  this  should  be  done 
to  distinguish  the  Sabbath  from  week-days.  R.  Hisda  and 
Rabba  bar  R.  Huna  said:  "The  attachment  made  should  be 
four  ells  wide,"  because  they  hold  that  the  unclaimed  ground 
commences  from  the  surface  of  the  water,  and  the  water  itself  is 
considered  as  ground,  and  if  the  attachment  were  not  made,  it 
would  constitute  carrying  from  unclaimed  ground  into  private 
eround,  and  this  is  not  allowed  to  commence  with. 

R.  Huna  said:  "  On  the  small  boats,  that  are  not  four  spans 
wide  down  their  entire  depth,  a  man  must  not  carry  anything 
only  for  four  ells  (because  it  cannot  be  considered  private  ground), 
unless  at  a  distance  of  three  spans  from  the  ground  the  boat  is 
four  spans  wide.  If  there  be  sticks  or  refuse  at  the  bottom  of 
the  boat,  the  bottom  of  the  boat  commences  from  the  top  of 
such  sticks  or  refuse,  and  if  the  boat  be  ten  spans  high,  accord- 
ing to  that  calculation  one  may  carry  in  it."  R.  Na'hman 
opposed  this:  "  Why  should  a  man  not  be  permitted  to  carry 
in  a  boat  the  bottom  of  which  is  not  strewn  with  sticks  and 
refuse  ? "  Have  we  not  learned  in  a  Boraitha  that  R.  Jose  b.  R. 
Jehudah  said:  "  If  one  placed  in  public  ground  a  stick  (ten 
spans  high),  on  top  of  which  was  a  trough,  which  was  four  spans 
wide,  a  person  throwing  anything  on  top  of  the  trough  is  culpa- 
ble, because,  while  the  trough  was  not  ten  spans  high  itself,  the 
height  of  the  stick  upon  which  it  rests  is  considered  as  included 
in  its  own."  Why  should  this  not  also  refer  to  the  case  of  the 
boat,  and  the  place  where  it  is  four  spans  wide  be  considered 


TRACT    SABBATH.  201 

as  if  it  reached  down  to  the  bottom  ?  R.  Joseph  opposed  R. 
Na'hman  as  follows:  "  Did  not  R.  Na'hman  hear  that  R.  Jehu- 
dah,  in  the  name  of  Rabh,  according  to  others,  in  the  name  of 
R.  Hyya,  said,  that  the  sages  did  not  agree  with  Jose  b.  R. 
Jehudah  and  exonerated  the  man?"  Hence  we  see  that  the 
Boraitha,  treating  of  the  boat,  holds  with  the  opinion  of  the 
rabbis. 

"  If  ships  are  bound  together,"  etc.  Is  this  not  self-evi- 
dent ?  Said  Rabha:  "The  Mishna  wishes  to  inform  us,  that 
one  is  permitted  to  carry  from  one  ship  into  another,  even  if  a 
small  boat  is  between  them,  i.e.,  one  may  carry  from  one  ship 
into  the  boat  and  thence  into  the  other  ship,  even  though  the 
small  boat  is  not  tied  to  either  ship."  Said  R.  Saphra  to  him: 
"  Moses!*  How  canst  thou  say  such  a  thing?  Does  not  the 
Mishna  state  explicitly  that  one  may  carry  from  one  ship  into 
another?  No  boat  between  them  (was  mentioned)."  R. 
Saphra,  however,  explained  the  Mishna  thus:  The  Mishna,  by 
saying  one  may  carry  from  one  ship  into  another,  means  to  say 
that  an  Erubh  may  be  made  between  the  two  ships,  just  as 
between  two  houses,  and  then  things  may  be  carried  from  one 
into  the  other,  as  we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  An  Erubh  may 
be  made  between  ships  that  are  tied  together  and  things  may  be 
carried  from  one  into  the  other.  If  the  rope  by  means  of  which 
the  ships  were  lashed  to  each  other  became  torn,  carrying  to  and 
from  one  ship  to  the  other  is  not  allowed ;  but  if  the  ships  were 
lashed  together  again,  either  intentionally  or  unintentionally, 
through  compulsion  or  through  an  error,  the  original  permission 
again  holds  good. 

The  same  is  the  case  with  mats  of  which  tents  were  made, 
whereby  the  ground  enclosed  by  the  mats  becomes  private ;  and 
if  many  such  tents  were  made,  carrying  from  one  tent  into 
another  is  permitted,  provided  an  Erubh  is  made.  If  the  mats 
were  rolled  up,  however,  such  carrying  is  not  permitted.  Were 
the  mats  rolled  down  again,  intentionally  or  unintentionally, 
through  compulsion  or  through  error,  the  original  permission 
again  holds  good. 

It  was  reported  in  the  name  of  Samuel :  If  the  ships  were 
tied  together  with  a  mere  thread,  permission  to  carry  from  one 
into  the  other  holds  good. 

MISHNA:  If  one  threw  a  thing,  and  after  the  thing  had 

*  The  word  Moses  was  used  as  a  title  to  a  great  teacher. 


202  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

passed  out  of  his  hand,  he  recollected  that  it  was  Sabbath ;  if 
another  person  caught  the  thing  thrown ;  if  a  dog  caught  it  or  if 
the  thing  thrown  was  consumed  by  fire  (before  reaching  its  des- 
tination), the  man  is  free.  If  one  threw  a  thing  for  the  purpose 
of  injuring  a  man  or  a  beast,  and  before  such  injury  was  inflicted 
recollected  (that  it  was  Sabbath),  he  is  free.  (For)  this  is  the 
rule :  Only  such  are  culpable  and  bound  to  bring  a  sin-offering  as 
commit  an  act  through  error  from  beginning  to  end ;  if  the  act, 
however,  was  committed  through  error  only  at  the  start,  and  at 
the  close  was  committed  consciously,  or  vice  versa,  the  perpe- 
trator is  free  until  the  beginning  as  well  as  the  end  of  the  act  is 
committed  through  error. 

GEMARA:  What  would  be  the  case,  if  the  thing,  after 
passing  out  of  the  thrower's  hand,  had  rested  (outside  of  four 
ells  in  public  ground)  ?  Would  he  be  culpable  ?  Why  !  Did 
he  not  recollect  (that  it  was  Sabbath)  before  the  thing  rested  ? 
And  our  Mishna  (distinctly)  states  that  one  cannot  be  culpable 
unless  an  act  were  committed  through  error  from  beginning  to 
end!  Said  Rabha:  The  Mishna  teaches  us  two  facts:  Firstly, 
if  one  threw  a  thing,  and  after  the  thing  had  passed  out  of  his 
hand  he  recollected  (that  it  was  Sabbath) ;  or  secondly,  even  if 
he  did  not  recollect  (that  it  was  Sabbath),  but  another  man,  or 
a  dog,  caught  the  thing,  or  it  was  consumed  by  fire  before  it 
rested,  he  is  not  culpable. 

"  This  is  the  rule."  We  have  learned:  If  one  threw  a  dis- 
tance of  six  ells,  two  ells  through  error,  the  next  two  con- 
sciously, and  the  last  again  through  error,  Rabba  declares  him 
free.  (How  can  that  occur  ?  As  soon  as  the  object  had  passed 
out  of  his  hand  and  had  not  yet  reached  farther  than  two  ells,  he 
became  conscious  that  it  was  Sabbath,  and  before  it  had  passed 
the  next  two  ells  he  forgot  again  that  it  was  Sabbath.)  Rabha, 
however,  declares  him  culpable.  Rabba  declares  him  free,  even 
according  to  the  opinion  of  R.  Gamaliel  (in  the  last  Mishna  of 
Chapter  XII.),  who  does  not  consider  the  consciousness  during 
the  time  intervening  between  the  perpetration  of  the  two  acts 
(each  of  which  only  executed  one-half  the  prescribed  deed)  as 
being  of  any  consequence  (but  considers  the  two  unfinished  acts 
as  one  prolonged  act  done  unintentionally  and  making  the  per- 
petrator culpable).  For  what  reason  ?  Because  in  the  case 
treated  of  in  the  cited  Mishna  nothing  was  done  during  the 
period  of  consciousness  (of  the  Sabbath)  intervening  between 
the  two  unfinished  acts  to  neutralize  the  erroneous  character  of 


TRACT    SABBATH.  203 

the  two  unfinished  acts,  and  thus  they  became  one  finished  act 
and  made  the  perpetrator  culpable.  In  this  case,  however,  Rabba 
assumes  that  during  the  time  intervening  between  the  passing 
of  the  first  two  ells  and  the  last  two  ells,  the  man  carried  the 
thing,  and  did  so  fully  conscious  (of  the  Sabbath),  and  thus  neu- 
tralized the  erroneous  character  surrounding  the  throwing  for  the 
first  two  and  last  two  ells.  Rabha,  however,  declares  him  cul- 
pable, even  according  to  the  rabbis,  who  hold  contrary  to  the 
opinion  of  R.  Gamaliel  (in  the  cited  Mishna)  and  consider  the 
consciousness  (of  Sabbath)  during  the  period  intervening  between 
the  two  unfinished  acts  as  a  neutralization  of  the  unintentional 
character  of  the  unfinished  acts,  thus  making  the  perpetrator 
not  culpable.  In  this  case,  however,  the  man  is  culpable. 
(Why  so  ?)  Because  in  the  case  cited  in  the  same  Mishna 
the  entire  act  could  have  been  committed,  but  was  not,  for 
after  the  man  became  conscious  (of  its  being  Sabbath)  he 
stopped ;  hence  the  unfinished  act  was  not  counted.  Later  he 
again  forgot  that  it  was  Sabbath,  but  again  recollected,  before 
the  entire  act  was  committed ;  so  the  second  unfinished  act  was 
not  counted,  and  the  man  is  free.  In  this  case,  however,  the 
thing  having  been  thrown  could  not  be  stopped  when  the  man 
became  conscious  of  its  being  Sabbath  before  it  reached  its  des- 
tination !  Thus  the  act  was  committed,  and  the  fact  that  the 
thrower  became  conscious  (of  its  being  Sabbath)  in  the  mean  time 
is  of  no  consequence.  (Now,  the  conclusion  is  that  there  is 
really  no  difference  between  the  rabbis  and  R.  Gamaliel  or  be- 
tween Rabba  and  Rabha,  because  all  agree  that  if  the  thing  was 
thrown  the  man  is  culpable,  but  if  carried  by  hand  he  is  not.) 

Rabba  said :  If  one  threw  a  thing  and  it  rested  in  the  mouth 
of  a  dog  or  in  the  opening  of  an  oven,  he  is  culpable.  Did 
we  not  learn  in  the  Mishna  that  if  a  dog  caught  it,  or  if  it  was 
consumed  by  fire,  he  is  not  culpable?  Yea;  but  the  Mishna 
refers  to  a  case  where  the  intention  was  to  throw  it  elsewhere 
and  accidentally  a  dog  caught  it  or  it  was  consumed  by  fire ;  but 
Rabba  means  to  say  that  a  man  is  culpable  if  he  intentionally 
throw  it  into  the  dog's  mouth  or  into  the  oven.  Said  R.  Bibhi 
b.  Abayi :  We  have  also  learned  elsewhere  that  the  intention  to 
have  a  thing  rest  in  a  place  makes  that  place  a  fit  one  for  the 
thing. 


CHAPTER   XII. 

REGULATIONS     CONCERNING      BUILDING,    PLOUGHING,    ETC.,    ON     THE 

SABBATH. 

MISHNA:  (Among  the  forty,  less  one,  principal  acts  of 
labor,  building  was  enumerated.)  What  is  the  least  amount  of 
building  which  will  make  a  man  culpable  ?  The  least  possible 
amount.  The  same  applies  to  stone-masonry,  smoothing  with  a 
hammer  (at  the  close  of  the  work) ;  as  for  planing,  he  who  planes 
the  least  bit,  and  for  drilling,  he  who  drills  ever  so  little,  is  cul- 
pable. For  this  is  the  rule :  He  who  performs  any  act  of  labor 
which  is  of  permanent  value  is  culpable.  R.  Simeon  ben  Gama- 
liel said :  He  who  during  his  work  strikes  the  anvil  with  his 
sledge  is  culpable,  because  he  virtually  brings  about  labor. 

GEMARA:  Of  what  use  is  so  small  an  amount  of  building  ? 
Said  R.  Aha  bar  Jacob:  "  So  small  an  amount  of  building  is 
usually  done  by  a  householder  who  discovers  a  hole  in  the  wall 
of  one  of  his  rooms  and  fills  it  up  (with  wood  or  cement).  And 
the  instance  of  such  work  having  been  performed  at  the  (con- 
struction of  the)  Tabernacle  is :  When  one  of  the  boards  con- 
tained a  hole  produced  by  worms,  a  little  molten  lead  was 
poured  into  it  and  it  was  thus  filled." 

Samuel  said:  "  One  who  places  a  stone  in  the  street  for  the 
purpose  of  paving  the  walk  is  culpable."  An  objection  was 
made.  We  have  learned  elsewhere:  If  one  furnish  the  stone 
for  paving  and  another  furnish  the  mortar,  the  latter  is  culpa- 
ble ?  [Says  the  Gemara:]  If  you  base  your  objection  to  Sam- 
uel's decree  upon  this  Boraitha,  why  do  you  not  also  cite  the 
latter  decree  of  the  Boraitha  which  reads:  R.  Jose  says:  "  One 
who  picks  up  a  stone  and  places  it  upon  a  row  of  stones  is  also 
culpable  "  ?  Hence  we  see  that  there  are  three  different  kinds 
of  building.  Building  at  the  base,  in  the  centre,  and  on  the 
top.  Building  at  the  base  only  requires  a  solid  foundation  in 
the  earth.  Building  in  the  centre  requires  mortar.  Building  on 
top  needs  only  proper  placing  without  the  use  of  mortar. 

"Stone-masonry."       In  what  category  of    labor  can  stone- 

204 


TRACT    SABBATH.  205 

masonty  be  placed,  that  its  performance  should  make  one  culpa- 
ble? Rabh  said  it  comes  under  the  category  of  building,  and 
Samuel  said  under  the  category  of  smoothing  with  a  hammer. 
The  same  difference  of  opinion  exists  between  Rabh  and  Samuel 
in  the  case  of  one  who  bores  a  hole  in  a  chicken-coop  that  was 
not  previously  perforated.  The  former  holds  this  to  be  build- 
ing, while  the  latter  regards  it  the  same  as  smoothing  with  a 
hammer.  (It  makes  no  difference  to  one  who  performs  such 
labor  unintentionally,  for  in  either  event  he  must  bring  a  sin- 
offering,  regardless  of  what  class  of  labor  he  performed,  if  he 
does  only  one  act ;  but  when  he  performs  two  acts  there  is  a 
difference.  If  they  are  both  of  one  category,  he  is  bound  to 
bring  only  one  sin-offering,  but  if  they  are  of  different  categories, 
he  must  bring  two ;  but  in  the  case  of  one  who  performed  such 
work  with  intention,  even  if  he  does  only  one  act  it  does  make 
a  difference.  The  witnesses  to  his  deed  when  warning  him — of 
his  wrong-doing — must  inform  him  just  what  class  of  labor  he  is 
engaged  in  executing.  Should  they  tell  him  incorrectly,  he 
cannot  be  held  guilty.  This  applies  to  all  cases  where  the 
Gemara  asks  as  to  the  category  of  labor  performed.)  The  same 
difference  of  opinion  also  exists  in  the  case  of  one  who  affixed 
a  handle  to  a  pickaxe,  Rabh  classing  such  work  as  building,  and 
Samuel  as  smoothing  with  a  hammer. 

A  question  was  propounded  by  R.  Nathan  bar  Oshiya  to  R. 
Johanan:  "  Under  what  category  of  labor  is  stone-masonry  to 
be  placed  ?  "  R.  Johanan  answered  him  by  making  the  sign  of 
hammering  with  his  hand. 

''For  this  is  the  rule."  What  additional  significance  does 
the  statement  "  for  this  is  the  rule  "  contain  ?  It  applies  to  the 
hollowing  out  of  a  block  of  wood  capable  of  holding  a  Kabh 
(about  four  lugs),  a  cavity  a  good  deal  smaller. 

"  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel  said"  etc.  What  labor  is  per- 
formed by  striking  an  anvil  with  a  sledge  ?  The  Tosephta  in 
this  chapter  explains  it  as  follows:  "  Said  R.  Simeon  ben  Gama- 
liel :  He  who  during  his  work  strikes  the  anvil  with  the  sledge 
is  culpable ;  because  at  the  construction  of  the  Tabernacle  those 
that  covered  the  boards  with  metal-plate  would  strike  the 
plates  with  their  hammers." 

MISHNA:  One  who  ploughs,  grubs,  weeds,  or  prunes  ever 

so  little  is  culpable.     One  who  gathers  wood  for  the  purpose  of 

using  the  space  occupied  by  the  wood  is  culpable  if  he  gathers 

ever  so  little;  but  if  he  gathers  it  for  the  purpose  of  lighting  a 

VOL.  n, — 2 


2o6  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

fire  with  it,  he  is  culpable  only  if  he  gathered  as  much  as  is 
required  to  cook  (an  easily  boiled  egg).  If  one  gathered  grass 
for  the  sake  of  the  space  occupied  by  it,  he  is  culpable  for  gath- 
ering even  ever  so  little;  if  for  the  purpose  of  feeding  cattle,  he 
does  not  become  liable  unless  he  gathered  as  much  as  a  goat's 
mouthful. 

GEMARA:  Of  what  use  is  a  place  where  a  man  ploughed 
ever  so  little  ?  It  may  be  used  to  plant  one  seed  of  a  cucumber 
in.  This  was  also  done  at  the  Tabernacle,  where  one  root  was 
all  that  was  necessary  (for  dyeing)  and  was  pulled  out  of  the 
ground,  thereby  making  a  hole.  (This  is  not  contradictory  to 
what  we  have  learned  previously,  that  the  minimum  prescribed 
quantity  for  cucumber  seeds  was  two,  because  a  man  will  not 
take  one  cucumber  seed  out  for  sowing;  but  when  sowing  a 
separate  hole  is  made  for  each  seed  and  thus  the  prescribed  quan- 
tity in  this  case  is  limited  to  one.) 

"  One  who  ploughs,  grubs,  weeds,  or  prunes.''  The  rabbis 
taught :  One  who  tears  out  herbs  (which  when  damp  are  good 
for  human  food)  for  the  purpose  of  eating  them  is  culpable  if 
the  quantity  equals  or  exceeds  the  size  of  a  dried  fig.  For 
cattle  the  prescribed  quantity  is  that  of  a  goat's  mouthful.  If 
for  the  purpose  of  using  for  fuel,  the  prescribed  quantity  is  as 
much  as  is  used  to  cook  an  easily  boiled  egg  with ;  if  for  the 
purpose  of  cleaning  (weeding)  his  place,  he  is  culpable  even  for 
ever  so  little.  Is  all  this  kind  of  work  not  done  for  the  sake  of 
cleaning  the  place  ?*  Said  Rabba  and  R.  Joseph:  The  Mishna 
treats  of  a  case  where  even  if  the  man  was  not  standing  in  a 
garden  belonging  to  an  individual,  but  even  if  he  did  it  in  a 
public  field  (if  his  intention  is  to  clean  the  place  he  is  culpable). 
Abayi  said :  (The  same  is  the  case)  even  if  he  did  it  in  a  private 
field  and  had  no  intention  to  clean  the  place,  as  it  did  not  belong 
to  him  but  to  some  one  else. 

MISHNA:  One  who  writes  two  letters,  with  the  right  or 
with  the  left  hand,  be  they  of  one  denomination  or  of  different 
denominations,  or  be  they  written  with  different  inks  or  be  they 
letters  of  different  languages  (alphabets),  is  culpable.  R.  Jose 
said :  The  only  reason  that  one  is  declared  culpable  for  writing 
two  letters,  is  because  they  can  serve  as  marks;  for  thus  the 
boards  used  at  the  Tabernacle  were  marked  in  order  to  be  able 
to  tell  which  fit  together.     Rabbi  (Jehuda  Hanassi)  said :  We 

*  This  means  that  taking  the  thin^^s  away  cleans  the  place  even  unintentionally. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  207 

also  often  find  a  short  name  which  forms  part  of  a  long  name,  as 
Sam  for  Simeon  and  Samuel,  Noah  for  Nahor,  Dan  for  Daniel, 
Gad  for  Gadiel. 

GEMARA:  It  would  be  right  if  the  Mishna  were  to  say  that 
if  one  write  with  his  right  hand  he  is  culpable,  because  writing 
with  the  right  hand  is  the  general  way ;  but  writing  with  the  left 
is  entirely  out  of  the  ordinary.  Why  should  he  be  culpable  ? 
Said  R.  Jeremiah:  "The  Mishna  also  refers  to  a  left-handed 
man."  A  left-handed  man  ?  His  left  is  his  right  and  his  right 
his  left  hand.  Let  him  then  not  be  culpable  if  he  use  his  right 
hand !  Said  Abayi :  In  the  case  of  the  Mishna  a  man  is  referred 
to  who  has  equal  strength  in  both  hands ;  but  R.  Jacob,  son  of 
the  daughter  of  Jacob,  said :  The  Mishna  stands  according  to 
the  decree  of  R.  Jose  that  the  reason  of  a  man's  culpability  is 
because  of  the  letters  standing  for  marks,  and  the  making  of 
marks  with  either  the  right  or  the  left  hand  is  prohibited.  How 
can  the  first  part  of  the  Mishna  be  according  to  the  opinion  of 
R.  Jose — it  teaches  further,  "  R.  Jose  said"  ?  If  the  latter 
part  is  explicitly  attributed  to  R.  Jose,  the  first  part  cannot  be 
in  accord  with  him.  Nay;  the  entire  Mishna  is  in  accord  with 
R.  Jose  (say  then  because  R.  Jose  said). 

"Rabbi  said:  We  also  often  find  a  short  name,''  etc.  What 
does  Rabbi  mean  by  this  teaching  ?  Shall  we  assume  that  one 
is  culpable  only  if  he  wrote  two  letters  representing  two  different 
names,  but  if  the  two  were  merely  an  abbreviation  of  one  name 
he  is  not  culpable  ?  Did  we  not  learn  in  a  Boraitha:  "  It  is  writ- 
ten [Lev.  iv.  2]:  And  do  (of)  any  (one)  of  them."  One  might 
assume  from  this  verse  that  the  man  is  not  culpable  unless  he 
wrote  the  entire  name,  or  wove  the  entire  cloth,  or  he  finished 
the  whole  length  of  the  seam,  therefore  it  is  written  "  of  any 
(one)  of  them."  Now,  if  we  take  "of  any  (one)  of  them" 
literally,  the  writing  of  even  one  letter  or  the  weaving  of  even 
one  thread  should  make  one  culpable!  Therefore  it  is  written: 
"  Of  any  {pne^  of  them."  How  should  this  be  understood  ? 
One  is  not  culpable  until  he  writes  a  short  name  which  forms 
part  of  a  long  name,  like  Sam  for  Simeon  or  Samuel,  Noah  for 
Nahor,  etc.,  etc.  Rabbi  (Jehudah)  said:  The  two  letters  need 
not  be  part  of  a  long  name,  but  even  if  the  two  form  a  name 
(of  a  thing)  in  themselves  like:  Shesh,  teth,  red,  gag,  choch. 
(shesh — lion,  teth — to  give,  red — go  below,  gag — roof,  choch — 
nose  band.)  Said  R.  Jose:  Is  then  the  man  culpable  because  of 
writing  ?      It  is  only  because  of  making  a  mark,  for  thus  were 


2o8  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

the  boards  of  the  Tabernacle  marked  in  order  that  one  might 
tell  which  fit  together.  Therefore  if  one  made  but  one  scratch 
on  two  boards  or  two  scratches  on  one  board,  he  is  culpable.  R. 
Simeon  quotes  the  same  verse:  "And  do  (of)  any  (one)  of 
them."  One  might  assume  that  the  man  is  not  culpable  unless 
he  wrote  the  entire  name,  etc.  How  should  this  be  understood  ? 
One  is  not  culpable  until  he  has  performed  labor  which  is  per- 
manently fixed.  Now  in  the  Boraitha  we  see  that  R.  Jehudah 
said  the  two  letters  need  not  be  part  of  a  name,  but  even  if  the 
two  form  a  name.  (Does  not  R.  Jehudah  contradict  himself  ?) 
This  presents  no  difficulty.  In  the  above  Mishna  he  gives  his 
own  opinion,  while  in  the  Boraitha  he  cites  his  master's  opinion, 
because  we  have  learned  in  another  Boraitha:  R.  Jehudah  said 
in  the  name  of  R.  Gamaliel:  "  Even  if  the  two  letters  are  not 
part  of  a  long  name,  but  form  a  name  in  themselves,  he  is  cul- 
pable.    For  instance:  shesh,  teth,  etc." 

Did  not  R.  Simeon  say  the  very  same  thing  as  the  first 
Tana?  Perhaps  one  might  say  that  R.  Simeon  refers  to  one  who 
wrote  two  letters  that  have  no  meaning  and  are  part  of  a  long 
word.  For  instance,  Aa  from  Aazreko  (I  assisted  you).  In 
such  a  case  R.  Simeon  would  be  the  stricter  and  the  first  Tana 
the  more  lenient.  Is  this  not  contrary  to  R.  Simeon's  wont,  as 
we  have  learned  in  a  Tosephta  further  on :  "If  one  bore  a  hole 
with  a  drill,  be  the  hole  ever  so  small,  he  is  culpable,"  etc.?  R. 
Simeon  however  declares  him  free  until  the  hole  made  was  as 
large  as  it  was  originally  intended  to  be.  Answer  and  interpret 
R.  Simeon's  words  thus:  One  might  say  that  one  is  not  culpable 
until  he  writes  the  whole  verse;  therefore  it  is  written  "  of  any 
one,''  signifying  that  one  word  is  sufficient. 

''  Rabbi  said :  We  also  often  find,''  etc.  How  can  the  name 
of  Sam  be  equal  to  Simeon  ?  The  (letter)  Mem  in  Sam  is  an 
end  (closed)  letter,  while  the  Mem  in  Simeon  is  an  open  (middle) 
Mem.*  Said  R.  Hisda:  From  this  we  may  infer  that  if  one 
write  by  mistake  an  open  Mem  instead  of  a  closed  Mem  in  the 
scroll  of  laws,  the  scroll  may  be  used. 

The  rabbis  said  to  R.  Jehoshua  ben  Levi :  There  were  some 
young  men  at  the  schoolhouse  to-day,  and  they  related  such 
wonderful  things  as  were  never  taught  before  even  in  the  time 
of    Joshua  the  son  of    Nun.       These  are  they:    Aleph,    Beth 


*  The  five  Hebrew  letters  Khaf,  Mem,  Nun,  Peh,  and  Tzadi  are  written  differ- 
ently at  the  end  and  in  the  centre  of  words. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  209 

means  OHph  Bino  (go  and  teach  knowledge).  Gimmel,  Daled 
means  Gmol  (be  bountiful)  Dalim  (to  the  poor).  Why  is  the 
foot  of  the  Gimmel  pointed  toward  the  Daled  ?  Because  so 
should  be  the  feet  of  those  who  are  bountiful — ever  ready  to 
seek  beneficiaries.  Why  is  the  foot  of  the  Daled  pointed  back 
toward  the  Gimmel  ?  In  order  that  the  poor  man  may  know 
that  he  must  not  conceal  himself  from  his  benefactor.  Why 
does  the  Daled  turn  its  face  from  the  Gimmel  ?  In  order  to 
teach  us  that  the  benefactor  should  give  to  the  poor  without 
ostentation  and  that  the  poor  man  be  not  abashed.  Hey, 
Vav,  Zayin,  Cheth,  Teth,  lod,  Khaf,  Lamad  means:  Hey  Vav, 
which  is  the  name  of  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He;  (Zayin) 
Zon — He  will  feed  thee ;  (Cheth)  Cheyn — will  be  gracious  unto 
thee;  (Teth)  Tov — will  be  good  to  thee;  (lod)  lerushah — He 
will  make  thee  inherit  in  the  world  to  come ;  (Khaf)  Khesser — 
He  will  give  thee  a  crown ;  (Lamad)  Leaulim  haboh — in  the 
world  to  come. 

Mem  open  (middle)  and  Mem  closed  (end)  means  Meimar 
(sayings)  Pathuach  (open)  [implying  that  there  are  such  sayings 
of  God  as  are  open  to  every  one]  ;  but  Meimar  (sayings)  Sathum 
(closed)  [implying  that  there  are  sayings  of  God  which  are  hidden 
to  most  men].  Noon  curved  (middle)  and  Noon  straight  (end) 
means  Neamon  (an  upright  man);  Khaph  (curved)  [should  be 
(curved)  bowed  down,  modest  in  this  life,  and  in  the  life  here- 
after he  will  become  a  Neamon]  (an  upright  man)  Pashut 
(straight).  Samach  means  Smohch  (assist).  Ayin  means  aniim 
(the  poor).  Peh  round  (middle)  and  Peh  straight  (end)  means 
Peh  (a  mouth)  Pasuach  (shall  be  open  [to  teach]);  and  Peh 
(mouth)  Sasum  (shall  be  closed  [to  slander]).  Tzadi  round 
(middle)  and  Tzadi  straight  (end)  means  Tzadik  (a  righteous 
man)  should  be  modest  and  fearless  (straight).  Quph  means 
Qodosh  (holy),  implying  who  does  all,  that  has  been  mentioned, 
is  holy.  Resh  means  Roshoh  (wicked),  implying,  who  does  the 
contrary  is  wicked.  Why  does  the  crown  of  the  Quph  look 
down  upon  the  Resh  ?  Just  as  the  Qodosh  (Holy  One,  blessed 
be  He)  looks  down  upon  the  Roshoh  (the  wicked),  saying:  Turn 
from  thy  ways  and  I  shall  also  give  thee  a  crown.  Why  does  the 
foot  of  the  Quph  hang  unsupported  ?  In  order  to  admit  of  the 
wicked  entering  into  the  Qudoshim  (holiness)  if  he  turn  from  his 
ways.  Shin  means  Sheqer  (a  lie)  and  Thaph  means  Emeth 
(truth).  Why  are  the  letters  of  Sheqer  so  near  to  one  another 
(the  order  of  sequence  in  the  alphabet  is  Resh,  Quph,  Shin)  and 


210  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

Emeth  so  far  from  one  another  (being  the  first,  middle,  and  last 
letters  of  the  alphabet)  ?  Because  lies  are  very  frequent,  while 
truth  is  very  scarce.  Why  have  the  letters  in  Sheqer  but  one 
foot  while  those  in  Emeth  have  so  many  ?  Because  lies  will 
finally  totter,  while  truth  will  stand  supreme. 

MISHNA:  One  who  through  forgetfulness  at  one  time  wrote 
two  letters  is  culpable.  He  may  have  written  with  ink,  paint, 
dye,  gum,  or  vitriol,  or  with  anything  making  a  permanent 
mark.  Further,  one  who  wrote  on  two  walls  forming  a  corner, 
or  on  two  covers  of  an  arithmetical  book,  so  that  the  two  letters 
can  be  read  together,  is  culpable.  One  who  writes  on  his  own 
body  is  culpable.  One  who  tattooes  letters  in  his  flesh  R. 
Eliezer  holds  him  culpable  for  a  sin-offering,  and  R.  Jehoshua 
holds  him  to  be  free.  If  one  write  with  dark  liquids,  with  fruit- 
juice,  or  in  road-dust,  in  fine  sand,  or  in  anything  that  does  not 
retain  the  writing,  he  is  free.  If  one  write  with  the  back  of 
his  hand,  with  his  feet,  with  his  mouth,  with  his  elbow;  or  if 
one  write  one  letter  to  another  letter  (that  had  already  been 
written),  or  writes  over  letters  that  had  been  written  before;  or 
when  one's  intention  was  to  write  a  Cheth  and  wrote  two  Zayins ; 
or  if  one  write  one  letter  on  the  ground  and  another  on  the 
wall,  or  on  two  separate  walls,  or  on  two  separate  pages  of  a 
book,  when  the  two  letters  cannot  be  read  together,  he  is  free. 
If  one  wrote  one  abbreviated  letter,  R.  Jehudah  ben  Bethyra 
holds  him  culpable  and  the  sages  hold  him  free. 

GEMARA:  "  Or  with  anything  makiftg  a permajtent  mark," 
etc.  What  other  additional  things  does  the  Mishna  mean  to 
express  by  this  ?  R.  Hananyah  taught :  It  means  if  one  wrote 
with  berry-juice  or  with  gall-nuts,  he  is  also  culpable.  R.  Hyya 
taught:  "  If  one  wrote  with  graphite,  soot,  or  black  ink,  he  is 
culpable." 

One  who  tattooes  two  letters  on  his  flesh"  etc.  We  have 
learned  in  a  Boraitha:  Said  R.  Eliezer  to  the  sages:  "  Did  not 
the  son  of  Sattadai  *  bring  witchcraft  out  of  Egypt,  through 
tattooing  on  his  flesh  ? "  Answered  the  sages:  "  He  was  a  fool 
and  we  do  not  cite  single  instances  of  fools." 

"  If  one  write  one  letter  to  another  letter"  etc.  According 
to  which  Tana's  opinion  is  this?  Said  Rabba  bar  R.  Huna: 
"  This  is  not  according  to  the  opinion  of  R.  Eliezer,  for  R. 
Eliezer   said    that    if  one   add    another   thread    to    one  already 

*  As  to  who  Ben  Sattadai  was,  see  the  works  of  Prof.  Derenbourg. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  an 

woven,  he  is  culpable."  We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  "  If 
one  wrote  one  letter  at  the  end  of  any  scriptural  book,  thereby- 
finishing  that  particular  book,  or  if  one  added  another  thread  to 
one  already  woven,  he  is  culpable."  According  to  which  Tana's 
opinion  is  this?  Said  Rabba  bar  R.  Huna:  "  This  is  in  accord- 
ance with  the  opinion  of  R.  EHezer,  who  said  that  if  one  add 
another  thread  to  one  already  woven  he  is  culpable."  R.  Ashi 
said :  We  may  assume  that  the  opinion  of  the  sages  does  not 
conflict  with  this  opinion,  because  the  case  of  finishing  a  book 
differs  from  that  of  adding  another  thread ;  hence,  according  to 
their  opinion,  one  is  also  culpable  (for  finishing  a  book  by  add- 
ing one  letter). 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  "  If  one  corrected  one  letter 
in  the  Scroll  of  laws,  he  is  culpable."  How  can  this  be  ?  One 
is  not  held  culpable  for  writing  one  letter;  how  can  the  Boraitha 
hold  one  culpable  for  merely  correcting  one  letter  ?  Said  R. 
Shesheth :  "  Here  a  special  case  is  treated  of;  i.e.,  if  one  take 
off  the  top  bar  of  the  Cheth  and  make  two  Zayins  out  of 
it."  Rabha  said:  The  same  is  the  case  if,  for  instance,  one 
remove  the  square  portion  of  a  Daled  and  form  a  Resh  there- 
from. 

"  If  one  wrote  one  abbreviated  letter,''  etc.  R.  Johanan 
said  in  the  name  of  R.  Jose  ben  Zimra:  "  Whence  do  we  know 
that  there  are  abbreviated  letters  in  the  Scriptures  ?  As  it  is 
written  [in  Gen.  xvii,  5] :  Khi  Ab  Hamaun  Goyim  Nsathicha 
(For  the  father  of  a  multitude  of  nations  have  I  made  thee).  In 
the  word  Ab  the  Aleph  is  the  abbreviation  of  Ab — father,  and 
the  Beth  stands  for  bachur — selected ;  Hamaun  stands  for  haviv 
— lovely,  Melech — king,  vathig — modest,  neamon — upright.  All 
this  I  have  made  thee  among  the  nations."  R.  Johanan 
declares  of  his  own  accord :  "  The  ten  commandments  commence 
with  Anauchi  when  it  could  be  Ani  (meaning  I  am).  The 
Anauchi  is  an  abbreviation  for  Ano  (I),  Naphshi  (my  soul), 
Kthovith  (I  have  written),  Yehovith  (and  have  given)." 

MISHNA:  If  one,  through  forgetfulness  at  two  different 
times,  write  two  letters,  say  one  in  the  morning  and  the  other 
toward  evening,  R.  Gamaliel  holds  him  to  be  culpable  and  the 
sages  declare  him  free. 

GEMARA :  On  what  point  do  R.  Gamaliel  and  the  sages 
differ  ?  R.  Gamaliel  does  not  consider  the  consciousness  (of  its 
being  Sabbath)  during  the  time  intervening  between  the  perpe- 
tration of  the  two  acts  (each  of  which  executed  only  half  the 


212  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

prescribed  deed)  as  being  of  any  consequence  (but  considers  the 
two  unfinished  acts  as  one  prolonged  act  done  unintentionally 
and  making  the  perpetrator  culpable).  The  sages,  however,  con- 
sider the  consciousness  (of  Sabbath)  during  the  period  interven- 
ing between  the  two  unfinished  acts  as  a  neutralization  of  the 
unintentional  character  of  the  unfinished  acts  and  thus  make  the 
perpetrator  not  culpable. 


CHAPTER   XIII. 

REGULATIONS    CONCERNING    WEAVING,    TEARING,    HUNTING,    ETC,    ON 

THE    SABBATH. 

MISHNA:  R.  Eliezer  said :  One  who  weaves  (on  the  Sab- 
bath) is  culpable,  as  soon  as  he  has  woven  three  threads  at  the 
beginning  of  the  web,  and  with  a  web  already  begun  the  addi- 
tion of  one  thread  sufifices  to  make  him  culpable.  The  sages 
said :  Both  at  the  commencement  of  a  new  web,  as  well  as  at 
the  continuation  of  one  already  begun,  the  prescribed  quantity 
(making  one  culpable)  is  two  threads.  One  who  attaches  two 
threads  to  the  web,  either  to  the  warp  or  to  the  shoot,  to  the 
fine  or  to  the  coarse  sieve,  or  to  the  basket,  is  culpable.  Also 
one  who  sews  two  stitches,  or  tears  asunder,  in  order  to  sew 
(together  with)  two  stitches. 

GEMARA:  When  R.  Itz'hak  came  to  Babylon,  he  taught 
that  R.  EHezer  said  "  two  threads  and  not  three,"  as  stated  in 
the  Mishna.  But  we  learned  three!  This  is  no  contradiction. 
R.  Itz'hak  refers  to  thick  threads  and  the  Mishna  to  thin. 

"  One  who  attaches  two  threads,''  etc.  Said  Abayi:  This 
means,  one  who  attached  two  threads  to  the  web  and  one  in  the 
web. 

"  One  who  sews  two  stitches,''  etc.  Was  this  not  taught  in 
the  Mishna  treating  of  the  principal  acts  of  labor  ?  Because  in 
the  succeeding  Mishna  the  rule  is  taught  concerning  one,  who 
tears  while  in  a  rage,  or  through  grief  at  the  death  of  a  near  rela- 
tive, sewing  and  tearing  is  repeated  in  this  Mishna. 

' '  Or  tears  asunder  in  order  to  sew  together  with  tivo  stitches. 
How  is  this  to  be  imagined  ?  (If  by  tearing  the  thing  one  means 
to  spoil  it,  he  may  tear  even  as  much  as  will  require  any  number 
of  stitches  and  not  be  culpable,  but  if  he  tears  in  order  to  sew 
together  with  two  stitches  and  thus  improve  the  thing,  how 
can  that  be  done  ?)  This  can  be  done  in  the  case  of  a  piece  of 
cloth  protruding  from  a  garment,  which  one  would  tear  off,  and 
then  sew  up  the  remaining  rent. 

MISHNA :  One  who  tears  a  thing  while  enraged,  or  through 

213 


214  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

grief  on  account  of  his  dead,  and,  in  general,  all  who  spoil  a 
thing  are  not  culpable.  If,  however,  one  destroy  a  thing  with 
the  intention  to  mend  it,  the  prescribed  quantity  (making  him 
culpable)  is  determined  according  to  the  prescribed  quantity  of 
the  act  by  which  it  is  mended.  The  prescribed  quantity  of  wool 
when  being  washed,  carded,  dyed  or  spun  is  a  thread  the  length 
of  a  double  sit ;  *  in  the  weaving  the  prescribed  quantity  for  wool 
is  the  breadth  of  one  sit. 

GEMARA:  There  is  a  contradiction:  We  have  learned  in 
a  Boraitha :  One  who  tears  a  thing  while  in  a  rage,  or  through 
grief,  or  through  mourning  for  the  dead,  is  culpable,  and 
although  he  desecrates  the  Sabbath,  the  duty  of  tearing  (or- 
dained in  cases  of  mourners  for  the  dead)  is  fulfilled.  This 
presents  no  difificulty.  The  Boraitha  treats  of  the  case  of  a 
man  who  tore  his  garment  on  account  of  the  death  of  one  on 
whose  account  it  was  his  duty  to  tear  his  garment,  while  the 
Mishna  treats  of  the  case  of  a  man  who  did  not  do  so  for  duty's 
sake,  but  on  account  of  a  death  of  a  stranger,  and  this  not  being 
his  duty,  he  merely  spoiled  his  garment.  How  can  you  say, 
that  the  Mishna  treats  of  a  man  who  tore  his  garment  on  account 
of  the  death  of  a  stranger;  it  says  distinctly  his  dead  ?  Yea,  it 
says  his  dead,  but  he  has  such  relatives,  on  whose  account  he 
need  not  tear  his  garment ;  (though  it  may  be  his  duty  to  bury 
them,  he  being  the  nearest  living  relative;  and  tearing  one's  gar- 
ment becomes  a  duty  only  in  the  event  of  the  death  of  a  father, 
mother,  son,  daughter,  brother,  or  sister).  Now,  there  is  no 
contradiction  then  as  far  as  mourning  for  the  dead  is  concerned, 
but  there  surely  is  as  regards  one  who  is  enraged  ?  In  the  Bo- 
raitha he  is  held  culpable  and  in  the  Mishna  he  is  not  ?  Here 
also  there  is  no  difficulty:  The  Mishna's  statement  is  in  accord 
with  R.  Simeon's  decree,  who  holds,  that  one  is  not  culpable  of 
performing  a  deed  not  for  its  own  sake,  while  the  Boraitha  is  in 
accord  with  the  opinion  of  R.  Jehudah,  who  holds  one  culpable 
of  performing  work  even  not  for  its  own  sake.  But  you  have 
heard  that  R.  Jehudah's  opinion  only  applied  to  an  act  by  which 
a  thing  was  mended  ?  Did  you  also  hear  that  he  decreed  thus 
in  the  case  of  where  a  thing  was  destroyed  ?  Said  R.  Abhin : 
"  This  is  also  a  case  of  mending,  because  it  relieves  the  man's 


*  The  length  of  a  sit  is  the  distance  between  the  first  and  middle  finger  of  the 
hand  when  stretched  taut.  A  double  sit  is  the  distance  between  the  thumb  and  fore- 
finger when  stretched  farthest  apart. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  ^15 

mind ;  and  while  he  may  spoil  the  garment  at  the  same  time  he 
abates  his  fury,"  Is  such  action  permitted  ?  Have  we  not 
learned  that  R.  Simeon  ben  Elazar  said  in  the  name  of  'Hilpha 
bar  Agra,  quoting  R.  Johanan  ben  Nuri:  "  He  who  tears  his  gar- 
ments in  his  fury,  or  he  who  breaks  his  vessels,  or  he  who  throws 
away  his  money  while  in  a  rage,  shall  be  regarded  in  your  eyes 
as  a  worshipper  of  idols,  because  such  is  the  custom  of  the  mis- 
leader:  To-day  he  says  to  one,  '  Do  so,'  to-morrow  '  Do  some- 
thing else,'  until  he  tells  one  to  go  and  worship  idols  and  the 
man  does  so."  R.  Abhin  added  to  this:  "  Where  can  a  Scrip- 
tural passage  be  found  prohibiting  this  ?  [Psalms  Ixxxi.  10] : 
'  There  shall  not  be  among  thee  a  foreign  god;  nor  shalt  thou 
bow  thyself  down  to  any  strange  god.'  This  means  that  no 
foreign  god  (misleader)  shall  be  in  thy  heart,  because  it  says 
Becho  (in  thee).  The  latter  part  of  the  verse  infers,  that  if  he 
allows  the  misleader  to  dwell  in  his  heart  it  will  bring  him  to 
bowing  down  to  idols."  Such  action  is  permitted  only  when  a 
man  is  not  in  an  actual  fury,  but  wishes  to  appear  as  if  enraged 
in  order  to  command  obedience  (from  his  family),  as  R.  A'ha  bar 
Jacob  used  to  do;  viz.  :  "  When  he  wanted  to  show  displeasure 
at  the  deeds  of  his  family,  he  would  take  up  a  broken  vessel  and 
shatter  it,  making  his  family  believe  that  he  was  furious  and 
was  breaking  whole  vessels." 

Said  R.  Simeon  ben  Pazi  in  the  name  of  R.  Jehoshua  ben 
Levi,  quoting  Bar  Qapara:*  The  tears  shed  by  a  man  on 
account  of  the  death  of  an  upright  man  are  counted  by  the 
Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  and  stored  in  His  treasury,  as  it  is 
written  [Psalms  Ivi.  9]:  "  My  wanderings  hast  Thou  well  num- 
bered :  put  Thou  my  tears  into  Thy  bottle,  behold  they  are  num- 
bered by  Thee."  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh  said:  "  One 
who  is  slow  to  mourn  the  death  of  a  scholar  deserves  being 
buried  alive,  as  it  is  written  [Joshua  xxiv.  30]:  'And  they  bur- 
ied him  on  the  border  of  his  inheritance  at  Thimnah-serach, 
which  is  on  the  mountain  of  Ephraim,  on  the  north  side  of 
Mount  Ga'ash.'  Ga'ash  signifies  storm,  and  from  this  it  is 
inferred,  that  because  the  people  did  not  mourn  the  death  of 
Joshua  the  mount  stormed  and  tried  to  bury  them  alive." 

Said  R.  Hyya  bar  Aba  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan:  "  One 


*  Because  mourning  for  one's  dead  is  treated  of  in  the  last  paragraph,  the  follow- 
ing discussions  relating  to  mourning  for  uprigfht  men  in  general  are  held  and  the 
ODinions  of  the  different  teachers  cited. 


2i6  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

who  is  slow  to  mourn  the  death  of  a  scholar  will  not  have  long 
life.  This  is  in  retaliation ;  (because  he  did  not  mourn  the  death 
of  the  scholar,  his  own  death  will  be  hastened),  as  it  is  written 
[Isaiah  xxvi.  8] :  'In  measure,  by  driving  him  forth,  thou  striv- 
est  with  him.'  "  R.  Hyya  bar  Aba  objected  and  said  to  R. 
Johanan :  How  canst  thou  say,  that  one  who  is  slow  to  mourn 
the  death  of  a  scholar  will  not  have  long  life  ?  Is  it  not  written 
[Judges  ii.  7] :  "  And  the  people  served  the  Lord  all  the  days  of 
Joshua,  and  all  the  days  of  the  elders,  that  lived  many  days 
after  Joshua,  who  had  seen  all  the  great  deeds  of  the  Lord, 
which  he  had  done  for  Israel  "?  R.  Johanan  answered  :  "  Thou 
Babylonite !  Does  the  verse  say,  that  lived  many  years  ?  It 
only  says  many  days!  "  Now,  according  to  R.  Johanan's  argu- 
ment, does  the  verse  [Deut.  xi.  21]:  "  In  order  that  your  days 
maybe  multiplied,  and  the  days  of  your  children,"  etc.,  also 
mean  days  and  not  years  ?  In  this  verse  it  is  different.  Where 
a  blessing  is  conferred  days  and  yeara  are  meant. 

R.  Hyya  bar  Aba  said  again  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan :  "  If 
one  brother  die,  let  the  remaining  brothers  take  care  that  t/ief 
do  not  die.  Or  if  a  member  of  a  society  die,  let  the  other  mem- 
bers take  care  that  tkey  die  not."  This  means:  if  the  best  one 
among  them  die;  another  says,  on  the  contrary,  if  the  least  one 
among  them  die. 

The  prescribed  quantity  of  wool,''  etc.  R.  Joseph  showed 
the  extent  of  a  double  sit  as  being  twice  the  distance  between 
the  fore  and  the  middle  finger  when  spread  out,  and  R.  Hyya 
bar  Ama  showed  its  extent  as  being  the  distance  between  the 
thumb  and  the  forefinger  when  spread  out. 

MISHNA:  R.  Jehudah  said:  "  One  who  chases  a  bird  into 
a  bird-tower  or  a  deer  into  a  house  is  culpable."  The  sages 
said:  "  One  who  chases  a  bird  into  a  bird-tower,  a  deer  into  a 
house,  yard,  or  into  a  menagerie,  is  culpable."  Said  R.  Simeon 
ben  Gamaliel:  "  Not  all  menageries  are  equal.  Following  is  the 
rule :  Where  another  chase  would  be  necessary  (to  catch  the 
deer)  one  is  not  culpable ;  where  no  further  chase  is  necessary, 
one  is  culpable." 

GEMARA:  The  rabbis  taught:  One  who  caught  a  blind  or 
a  sleeping  deer  is  culpable,  but  if  the  deer  is  lame,  sick  or  old  he 
is  not  culpable.  Said  Abayi  to  R.  Joseph:  "  What  difference 
is  there  between  the  two  ?  "  Answered  R.  Joseph :  "  A  blind  or 
a  sleeping  deer,  as  soon  as  touched,  would  attempt  to  escape, 
whereas  a  lame  or  a  sick  animal  could  not  do  this,"      Have  we 


TRACT    SABBATH.  217 

not  learned  in  a  Boraitha,  that  one  who  caught  a  sick  deer 
is  culpable  ?  This  presents  no  difficulty.  The  rabbis  refer 
to  a  deer  sick  with  fever  (when  it  was  impossible  for  it  to 
move),  while  the  Boraitha  refers  to  sickness  arising  from  over- 
exertion. 

MISHNA:  If  a  deer  run  into  a  house  and  one  lock  (the 
doors)  behind  the  deer,  he  (the  man)  is  culpable.  If  two  men 
lock  (the  doors)  both  are  free.  If  one  of  them  could  not  lock 
(them)  himself  and  both  did  so,  they  are  both  culpable.  R. 
Simeon  declares  them  free.  If  one  sit  down  at  the  entrance  of 
the  house  without  filling  it  up  and  another  sit  down  beside  him, 
thus  filling  up  the  gap,  the  latter  is  guilty.  If  the  former  sat 
down  at  the  entrance  and  filled  it  up,  and  another  came  up  and 
sat  beside  him,  the  former,  even  if  he  got  up  and  walked  away, 
is  culpable,  and  the  latter  free ;  for  this  is  the  same  as  if  one 
locked  his  house  to  preserve  its  contents  and  a  deer  were  on  the 
inside. 

GEMARA:  R.  Jeremiah  bar  Aba  in  the  name  of  Samuel 
said  :  One  who  catches  a  lion  on  the  Sabbath  is  not  culpable  until 
he  brings  him  into  his  cage. 

R.  Aba  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Hyya  b.  Ashi,  quoting  Rabh : 
"If  a  bird  flew  under  a  man's  coat-skirt,  the  man  may  keep  it 
there  until  dark."  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak  objected:  From  the 
above  Mishna,  "  If  a  man  sat  down  at  the  entrance  and  filled  it 
up,  and  another  came  up  and  sat  beside  him,  the  former,  even  if 
he  got  up  and  walked  away,  is  culpable  and  the  latter  is  free," 
would  we  not  assume,  that  the  man  is  free  {i.e.,  he  need  bring 
no  sin-offering)  but  he  should  not  have  done  it  in  the  first 
place  ?  Nay ;  it  means  he  is  free  and  may  do  so  to  commence 
with.  This  seems  to  be  borne  out  by  the  latter  part  of  the 
Mishna,  viz. :  "  For  this  is  the  same  as  if  one  locked  his  house 
to  preserve  its  contents  and  a  deer  were  on  the  inside."  It  is 
certainly  allowed  to  close  the  house  on  a  Sabbath  and  hence, 
being  the  same  as  locking  the  house,  it  is  allowed  in  the  first 
place. 

Said  Samuel :  "  At  all  times  when  it  is  taught,  that  one  is  not 
culpable  of  performing  work  on  the  Sabbath,  it  is  meant  that, 
while  he  is  not  culpable,  he  must  not  perform  such  work  to  com- 
mence with,  excepting  in  the  three  following  instances:  One  of 
the  three  has  just  been  mentioned  (concerning  the  deer) ;  the 
second  is,  when  one  lances  a  wound  on  the  Sabbath ;  if  the 
intention  is  to  extract  the  pus  contained  in  the  wound,  he  is  not 


2i8  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

culpable,  and  may  do  so  in  the  first  place ;  as  we  have  learned  in 
a  following  Mishna,  that  a  sewing  needle  may  be  used  to  remove 
a  splinter  from  the  flesh ;  the  third  is,  when  one  catches  a  snake 
on  the  Sabbath  and  he  did  so  in  order  to  escape  being  bitten,  he 
is  not  culpable  and  may  do  so  to  commence  with,  as  we  have 
learned  in  a  preceding  Mishna,  that  one  may  put  a  vessel  over  a 
serpent,  in  order  to  escape  being  bitten." 


CHAPTER   XIV. 

REGULATIONS   CONCERNING    THE   CATCHING    OF    REPTILES,  ANIMALS 

AND    BIRDS. 

MISHNA :  One  who  catches  or  wounds  any  one  of  the  eight 
kinds  of  reptiles  enumerated  in  the  Scriptures  (Lev.  xi.  29-30, 
viz.  :  the  weasel,  the  mouse,  the  tortoise,  the  hedgehog,  the 
chameleon,  the  lizard,  the  snail  and  the  mole)  is  culpable;  one 
who  wounds  worms  or  any  other  kind  of  reptiles  (not  enumer- 
ated above)  is  free.  One  who  catches  them  for  a  purpose  is 
culpable;  he  who  does  so  without  the  intention  (to  use  them)  is 
free.  He  who  catches  such  animals  or  birds  as  are  within  his 
domain  is  free,  he  who  wounds  them  is  culpable. 

GEMARA:  From  the  teaching  of  the  Mishna  that  the  rep- 
tiles (enumerated  above)  must  not  be  wounded,  it  is  evident 
that  such  reptiles  must  be  possessed  of  a  skin  (which  can  be 
wounded).  According  to  whose  opinion  is  this  ?  Said  Samuel: 
"  This  is  according  to  the  opinion  of  R.  Johanan  ben  Nuri;  for 
he  so  stated  (in  Tract  Chulin).  Rabba  bar  R.  Huna,  however, 
in  the  name  of  Rabh  said :  It  may  also  be  assumed  that  the 
Mishna  is  in  accord  with  the  rabbis,  who  disagree  with  R. 
Johanan  ben  Nuri  only  where  defilement  is  concerned,  but  who 
agree  with  him  as  to  Sabbath.  And  as  regards  the  Sabbath 
they  (the  rabbis)  do  not  disagree  with  R.  Johanan.  Have  we 
not  learned  in  a  Boraitha,  that  one  who  caught  one  of  the  eight 
kinds  of  reptiles  enumerated  in  the  Scriptures,  or  who  wounds 
them,  is  culpable  and  that  this  applies  only  to  such  reptiles  as 
have  skins,  and  only  such  a  wound  is  called  incurable  which  has 
been  produced  by  the  blood  clotting  in  the  skin  and  remaining 
there,  even  when  no  blood  came  to  the  surface  ?  R.  Johanan 
ben  Nuri,  however,  states,  that  all  the  eight  reptiles  enumerated 
in  the  Scriptures  have  skins  (and  therefore  one  who  wounds 
any  of  them  is  culpable;  hence  we  see  that  they  disagree  even 
as  regards  the  Sabbath).  Said  R.  Ashi :  The  first  Tana  of  the 
mentioned  Boraitha,  at  variance  with  R.  Johanan,  is  R.  Jehu- 
dah,  who  stated,  that  there  are  among  the  eight  such  as  have  no 

219 


220  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

skin ;  but  the  other  rabbis,  who  differ  with  R.  Johanan,  where 
defilement  is  concerned,  do  not  disagree  with  him  in  regard  to 
Sabbath.  Then  why  is  it  stated,  that  "  R.  Johanan  ben  Nuri, 
however,  states,  etc.,"  as  if  he  opposed  the  rabbis?  Read: 
"  Thus  states  R,  Johanan  ben  Nuri  and  his  opponents." 

*'  Or  any  other  reptiles.''  How  is  it,  if  one  kills  them  ?  Is 
he  culpable  ?  The  Mishna  must  be  understood  that  if  one  only- 
wounds  them  he  is  not  culpable,  but  if  he  kills  them  he  is  cul- 
pable ?  According  to  whose  opinion  is  this  ?  Said  R.  Jeremiah : 
"  This  is  according  to  the  opinion  of  R.  Eliezer,  as  stated  in  the 
first  chapter"  (page  22).  R.  Joseph  opposed  this:  "Thou 
sayest,  according  to  the  opinion  of  R.  Eliezer  ?  The  rabbis 
only  differ  with  R.  Eliezer  when  such  reptiles  as  are  incapable 
of  breeding  are  concerned  (for  then  they  are  not  considered  as 
actual  living  beings);  but  as  to  reptiles  that  are  capable  of 
breeding,  they  also  agree,  that  one  who  kills  them  (on  the  Sab- 
bath) is  culpable  (because  that  would  be  taking  life,  and  taking 
life  is  prohibited  on  the  Sabbath). 

' '  One  who  catches  them  for  a  purpose  is  culpable  ;  he  who  does 
so  without  any  intention  {to  tise  them)  is  free."  According  to 
whose  opinion  is  this  teaching  ?  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name 
of  Rabh :  It  is  according  to  the  opinion  of  R.  Simeon,  who 
states,  that  any  work  not  committed  for  its  own  sake  does  not 
make  one  culpable. 

Samuel  said:  "  One  who  takes  a  live  fish  out  of  the  water,  is 
culpable  as  soon  as  a  part  of  the  fish  as  large  as  a  Sela  has 
become  dry  (because  then  the  fish  cannot  live)."  Said  R.  Jose 
bar  Abhin :  Samuel  means  to  say,  that  he  is  not  culpable  unless 
a  place  as  big  as  a  Sela  become  dry  under  its  fins,  and  not  on  its 
body. 

Mar  bar  Hamduri  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said:  "  If  one 
thrust  his  hand  into  the  entrails  of  an  animal  and  displaced  a 
foetus,  that  may  have  been  there,  he  is  culpable."  Why  so? 
Said  Rabha:  Mar  bar  Hamduri  explained  this  to  me  as  fol- 
lows: Did  not  R.  Shesheth  say,  that  if  a  man  tore  out  flax 
from  among  the  thorns  surrounding  it,  he  is  culpable,  because 
he  removed  a  thing  whence  it  grew  ?  So  also  in  this  case  he 
is  culpable  because  he  displaced  the  foetus  whence  it  grew.  Said 
Abayi :  The  same  is  the  case  with  one  who  tore  out  a  mushroom 
which  grows  near  a  vessel  filled  with  water,  because  he  removed 
an  object  whence  it  grew.  R.  Oshiyah  objected :  Did  we  not 
learn  that  one  who  tears  out  a  thing  from  a  flower-pot,  which  is 


TRACT   SABBATH.  221 

not  perforated,  is  not  culpable,  but  from  a  perforated  flower-pot 
he  is  culpable.  Why  should  he  be  culpable  in  this  case  ?  Be- 
cause a  thing  does  not  grow  in  a  flower-pot  which  is  not  perfo- 
rated, as  a  rule;  but  in  this  case  it  grows  in  its  usual  way. 

"He  who  catches  such  animals  or  birds  as  are  within  his 
domain,''  etc.  R.  Huna  said:  "  It  is  allowed  to  write  Tephillin 
on  the  skin  of  a  bird  which  is  ritually  clean."  Said  R.  Joseph: 
"  What  would  he  inform  us  ?  That  a  bird  has  a  skin  ?  This  is 
taught  in  the  Mishna,  for  it  says,  he  who  wounds  a  bird  is  cul- 
pable." Said  Abayi  to  R.  Joseph:  "  He  informs  us  of  a  very 
important  matter.  From  the  Mishna  we  would  simply  know 
that  the  bird,  having  a  skin,  must  not  be  wounded,  but  we  might 
think,  that  such  a  skin,  being  porous,  must  not  be  used  for 
Tephillin.  Hence  he  informs  us,  that  it  may  also  be  used 
for  Tephillin,  as  it  was  said  in  Palestine  that  pores  which  do 
not  permit  of  ink  soaking  through  cannot  be  considered  as 
pores." 

Mar  the  son  of  Rabhina  asked  of  R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak: 
"Is  it  allowed  to  write  Tephillin  on  the  skin  of  a  fish  which  is 
ritually  clean?"  R.  Na'hman  answered:  "This  can  only  be 
decided  by  Elijah ;  when  he  comes  again,  he  will  decide  whether 
it  is  allowed  or  not." 

Samuel  and  Qarna  were  sitting  on  the  banks  of  Lake  Malka. 
Samuel  noticed  that  a  ship  was  struggling  with  the  rough 
waters  and  a  man  was  suffering  in  consequence.  Said  Samuel  to 
Qarna:  "  It  seems  to  me,  that  a  great  man  is  coming  from  Pal- 
estine and  that  he  is  sick  at  the  stomach.  Go  and  see  what  ails 
him."  He  went  and  found  Rabh  on  the  ship,  and  asked  him: 
"  Whence  do  we  know  that  Tephillin  may  be  written  only  upon 
the  skin  of  a  ritually  clean  animal  ?"  Rabh  answered:  "  It  is 
written  [Exod.  xili.  9]  :  'In  order  that  the  law  of  the  Lord  shall 
be  in  thy  mouth,'  which  means,  that  the  Law  shall  be  written 
only  on  such  a  thing  as  thou  mayest  take  into  thy  mouth." 
Qarna  asked  him  again :  "  How  do  we  know  that  blood  is  red  ?  " 
Rabh  answered  again:  "  Because  it  is  written  [II  Kings  iii.  22]  : 
'  The  Moabites  saw  the  water  at  a  distance  as  red  as  blood.'  " 
(In  the  meantime  Rabh  felt  that  Qarna  was  quizzing  him.)  He 
asked  him,  "  What  is  thy  name  ?"  He  answered:  "  Qarna." 
Said  Rabh:  "A Qarna  (thorn)  be  in  thy  eyes!  "  Finally  Samuel 
took  Rabh  to  his  own  house,  gave  him  barley-bread,  small  fishes, 
milk  and  such  things  as  tend  to  produce  looseness  of  the 
bowels,  but  did  not  show  him  the  place  to  excrementize  in.     So 

VOL.  II. — 3 


^22  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

Rabh  cursed  him  and  said:  "  May  the  one  who  wishes  to  make 
me  suffer,  not  be  able  to  rear  his  children."     So  it  was. 

The  rabbis  taught :  It  is  allowed  to  write  Tephillin  on  the 
skins  of  (ritually)  clean  animals  and  creatures,  also  upon  the 
skins  of  such  as  died  a  natural  death  and  were  not  slaughtered, 
and  it  is  an  ordinance  (instituted)  by  Moses  at  Sinai,  that  the 
Tephillin  are  wound  in  the  hairy  hide  of  such  animals,  whence 
the  skin  may  be  taken,  and  are  sewed  with  the  veins  of  such 
animals;  but  it  is  not  allowed  to  write  Tephillin  on  the  skins  of 
(ritually)  unclean  animals  and  creatures,  whether  such  animals 
were  slaughtered  or  naturally  expired.  This  question  was 
asked  by  a  Bathusee  of  R.  Joshua  of  the  city  of  Garsi. 
"  Whence  do  we  know  that  Tephillin  must  not  be  written  on 
the  skin  of  an  unclean  animal?"  "From  the  passage  [Lev. 
xiii.  9] :  'In  order  that  the  law  of  the  Lord  shall  be  in  thy 
mouth,'  which  means,  that  the  Law  shall  be  written  only  on 
such  a  thing  as  a  man  may  put  into  his  mouth."  "  According 
to  thy  argument,"  said  the  Bathusee,  "  Tephillin  should  not  be 
written  on  the  skin  of  a  (ritually)  clean  animal,  that  died  a  nat- 
ural death  (because  it  must  not  be  eaten  also)."  Answered  R. 
Joshua:  "  I  will  give  thee  an  instance  of  two  men,  who  incurred 
the  death  penalty.  One  was  duly  executed,  while  the  other 
died  at  the  moment  that  he  reached  the  gallows.  Which  is 
preferable  ?  Certainly  the  natural  death.  In  this  case  also,  why 
should  the  skin  of  the  animal  that  died  a  natural  death  not  be 
used  for  writing  the  Tephillin  thereon  ? "  "  According  to  that, 
then,"  said  the  Bathusee,  "  why  should  it  not  be  eaten  also  ?" 
Answered  R.  Joshua:  "  It  is  written  [Deut.  xiv.  21] :  '  Ye  shall 
not  eat  anything  that  dieth  of  itself,'  and  thou  Avouldst  that  it 
should  be  eaten."  Answered  the  Bathusee:  "  Kalos"  (Greek 
Ka\o^  =  nice,  well). 

MISHNA:  It  is  prohibited  to  prepare  brine  on  Sabbath,  but 
the  making  of  salt  water,  in  order  to  dip  one's  bread  into  it,  or 
to  use  for  seasoning  other  dishes  is  permitted.  Said  R.  Jose: 
Is  this  not  brine  ?  (What  is  the  difference  ?)  be  it  more  or  less 
salted  ?  Only  the  following  kind  of  salt  water  may  be  made :  If 
oil  is  first  put  into  the  water  or  into  the  salt. 

GEMARA :  How  should  the  Mishna  be  understood  ?  Said 
R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  "It  is  not  permitted  to 
make  a  great  deal  of  salt  water,  but  a  little  may  be  made." 

"  Said  R.  Jose :  Is  this  not  brine  ?  Be  it  more  or  less  salted.'' 
The  schoolmen  asked  :  "  Does  R.  Jose,  by  making  that  state- 


TRACT    SABBATH.  223 

ment,  mean  to  say  that  both  should  be  prohibited  or  that  both 
be  allowed  ?"  Said  R.  Rabba  and  also  R.  Johanan :  "  R.  Jose 
meant  to  say,  that  both  should  be  prohibited."  We  have  also 
learned  this  in  a  Boraitha:  "  One  shall  not  make  a  great  deal  of 
salt  water  in  order  to  put  it  into  a  Gistar  (a  large  vessel)  filled 
with  things  requiring  a  soaking;  but  he  may  make  a  little  salt 
water  to  dip  his  bread  into  it  or  use  it  for  seasoning  other  dishes. 
Said  R.  Jose:  '  Because  one  is  more  and  the  other  less  salted  the 
former  should  be  prohibited  and  the  latter  should  be  permitted ; 
then  one  might  say  that  a  greater  act  of  labor  should  be  prohi- 
bited and  a  smaller  one  permitted  ?  Therefore,  I  say,  both  are 
not  allowed,  but  it  becomes  permissible,  if  oil  is  put  into  the 
water  or  into  the  salt,  the  main  thing  is  that  one  should  not  mix 
water  and  salt  to  commence  with.'  " 

R.  Judah  bar  Haviva  taught:  "One  shall  not  make  salt 
water  very  strong."  What  does  he  mean  by  "  ver^'  strong"  ? 
Rabba  and  R.  Joseph  bar  Aba  both  said:  "  If  one  put  an  egg 
into  the  water  and  the  egg  f^oat  it  is  strong  salt  water."  Hoav 
much  salt  must  be  used  for  such  water  ?  Said  Abayi :  "  Two- 
thirds  salt  and  one-third  water."  For  what  purpose  can  that 
be  used  ?     For  fish-brine. 

The  same  Judah  b.  Haviva  taught:  "One  must  not  salt 
pieces  of  radishes  and  eggs  on  the  Sabbath."  R.  Hizkyah  in 
the  name  of  Abayi  said:  "  Salting  radishes  is  not  allowed,  but 
salting  eggs  is." 

The  same  Judah  b.  Haviva  taught:  "If  citrons,  radishes 
and  eggs  are  eaten  without  the  peel  (in  the  case  of  an  egg,  the 
yolk  without  the  white),  they  remain  in  the  stomach." 

Rabhin  walked  behind  R.  Jeremiah  on  the  banks  of  the  sea 
of  Zidon.  Rabhin  asked  R.  Jeremiah:  "  Is  it  allowed  to  wash 
one's  self  in  this  water  on  Sabbath  ?  "  R.  Jeremiah  said :  "  Yes, 
it  is."  Asked  Rabhin  again:  "  How  is  it  if  a  man  who  is  bath- 
ing in  this  water,  opens  and  closes  his  eyes,  so  that  the  water  has 
access  to  the  eyes  ?  "  Answered  R.  Jeremiah :  "  I  never  heard 
of  just  such  a  case,  but  of  one  similar  to  it.  I  heard  R.  Zera 
say  at  one  time  in  the  name  of  R.  Mathne,  another  time  in  the 
name  of  Mar  Uqba,  both  of  whom  said,  that  the  father  of  Sam- 
uel differed  with  Levi  and  that  one  of  them  said,  that  pouring 
wine  on  the  eyes  as  a  remedy  is  allowed  but  pouring  wine  into 
the  eyes  is  not  allowed,  while  the  other  said  that  the  saliva  of  a 
man  who  had  not  broken  his  fast  is  a  remedy  for  the  eyes  and 
must  not  even  be  put  on  the  eyes;  but  Mar  Uqba  in  the  name 


224  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

of  Samuel  said :  A  man  may  soak  a  medicament  for  the  eyes  on 
Friday  in  water  and  may  then  use  the  water  on  Sabbath  with 
impunity." 

Bar  Levayi  was  standing  before  Mar  Uqba,  and  saw  the 
latter  opening  and  closing  his  eyes,  so  that  the  medicinal  water 
may  have  access  to  them.  Said  he  to  Mar  Uqba:  "  So  much 
Mar  Samuel  did  certainly  not  permit !  " 

R.  Yanai  sent  to  Mar  Uqba  a  request:  "  Let  master  send  us 
the  eye-salve  prescribed  by  Samuel  for  sore  eyes."  Mar  Uqba 
answered:  "  I  send  it  to  you,  so  that  you  do  not  think  me  par- 
simonious, but  Samuel  said,  that  bathing  the  eye  in  cold  water 
in  the  morning  and  bathing  the  hands  and  feet  in  warm  water 
at  night  is  better  than  any  medicine  for  the  eye  in  the  world." 
The  same  we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  by  R.  Muna  in  the 
name  of  R.  Jehudah. 

The  same  R.  Muna  used  to  say:  "  As  soon  as  a  man  rises 
and  his  hand  touches  his  eye,  nose,  mouth,  ear  or  a  vein,  it  had 
better  be  chopped  off.  The  same  should  be  done  with  a  hand 
that  touches  a  pitcher  used  for  beer,  before  it  (the  hand)  is 
washed,  because  such  a  hand  causes  blindness,  deafness  and 
bad  odors." 

We  have  learned:  R.  Nathan  said:  "The  eye  is  (like)  a 
princess  and  it  hurts  her  to  be  touched  by  a  hand  that  has  not 
been  washed  three  times."  R.  Johanan  says:  "  Puch  (a  pre- 
cious stone  or  a  certain  kind  of  paint  *)  applied  to  the  eye,  stills 
its  wrath,  dries  its  tears  and  causes  its  lashes  to  grow." 

Mar  Uqba  said:  "  One  who  (accidentally)  injured  his  hand 
or  foot  so  that  blood  flowed  (on  the  Sabbath)  may  steep  them 
in  wine  in  order  to  stop  the  flow,  with  impunity."  The  school- 
men asked :  "  May  he  do  this  in  vinegar  also  ? "  Said  R.  Hillel 
to  R.  Ashi :  "  When  I  attended  the  school  of  R.  Kahana,  it  was 
said,  that  it  is  not  allowed  in  vinegar."  Said  Rabha:  "And 
the  men  of  the  city  of  Me'hutza,  who  are  very  delicate,  are 
generally  cured  by  wine  the  same  as  other  people  are  by 
vinegar." 

It  happened,  that  Rabhina  came  to  the  house  of  R.  Ashi  and 
saw  the  latter,  having  had  his  foot  trodden  upon  by  an  ass,  soak- 
ing it  in  vinegar.  Said  Rabhina  to  him :  "  Does  not  the  Master 
coincide  with  R.  Hillel,  who  said,  that  soaking  in  vinegar  is  not 
allowed  ?"      R.  Ashi  answered:  "  With  a  wound  on  the  instep 

*  See  II  Kings  ix.  30,  Isaiah  liv.  il  and  I  Chronicles  xxix.  2. 


TRACT   SABBATH.  225 

of  the  foot  and  the  back  of  the  hand  it  is  different,  because  R. 
Ada  b.  Mathne  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh,  that  a  wound  on  the 
back  of  the  hand  and  on  the  instep  of  the  foot  is  equal  to  an 
internal  wound  and  the  Sabbath  may  be  desecrated  on  its 
account." 

The  rabbis  taught :  "  One  may  wash  his  body  in  the  waters  of 
Gror,  Chamtan,  Essia  and  Tiberias  (all  of  which  are  salt  waters), 
but  it  is  not  allowed  to  bathe  one's  self  in  the  Great  Sea  and  not 
in  water  used  for  soaking  flax,  also  not  in  the  sea  of  Sodom." 
Is  this  not  contradictory  to  what  we  have  learned  in  the  Bora- 
itha,  viz.  :  "  One  may  bathe  in  the  Tiberias  and  in  the  Great 
Sea,  but  not  in  water  used  for  soaking  flax  and  in  the  sea  of 
Sodom."  This  presents  a  difficulty;  for  in  the  Boraitha  bathing 
in  the  Great  Sea  is  permitted,  while  the  rabbis  prohibit  it. 
Said  R.  Johanan :  There  is  no  difficulty.  One  Boraitha  is  in 
accordance  with  the  opinion  of  R.  Meir,  while  the  other  is  in 
accord  with  the  opinion  of  R.  Jehudah  (who  differ  in  Tract 
Mikva'ath,  Chapter  V.,  Mishna  6).  R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak 
opposed  this,  and  said:  "  They  differ  only  as  regards  defilement, 
but  have  ye  heard  that  they  also  differ  concerning  the  Sabbath  ?  " 
Hence  R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak  explained  this  otherwise.  He 
said,  that  the  Boraitha  which  does  not  permit  bathing  in  the 
Great  Sea  refers  to  one  who  stays  in  the  water  some  length  of 
time  (and  it  is  obvious  that  this  is  done  on  account  of  his 
health).  Now,  if  we  say,  that  the  one  Boraitha  refers  to  a  man 
who  stays  in  the  water  for  some  time,  we  must  assume,  that  the 
other  Boraitha  refers  to  one  who  does  not  stay  long,  and  if  this 
is  so,  why  should  not  the  one  (who  does  not  stay  long)  be  per- 
mitted to  bathe  even  in  the  water  used  for  soaking  flax  ?  Have 
we  not  learned  in  another  Boraitha:  "One  may  bathe  in  the 
Tiberias,  in  flax-water  or  in  the  sea  of  Sodom,  even  if  his  head 
be  scrofulous,  provided  he  does  not  stay  long  in  the  water"  ? 
Therefore  we  must  explain,  that  the  difficulty  existing  between 
the  two  former  Boraithas  concerning  the  Great  Sea  is :  that  the 
one  prohibiting  bathing  in  the  Great  Sea  refers  to  bad  water 
which  is  not  usually  used  for  bathing,  while  the  other  refers  to 
the  good  water  generally  used  by  bathers  and  in  both  the  case 
refers  to  one  who  stays  in  the  water  for  some  time, 

MISHNA:  It  is  not  allowed  to  eat  Greek  hyssop  (a  remedy 
for  worms)  on  the  Sabbath,  because  it  is  not  food  for  healthy 
people.  It  is  allowed,  however,  to  eat  yoeser  (wild  rosemary) 
and  to  drink  shepherd-blossom  (tea,  an  antidote  for  poisonous 


226  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

beverages).  It  is  permitted  to  partake  of  all  usual  eatables  and 
beverages  on  the  Sabbath  as  medicaments  with  the  exception 
of  tree-water  (water  of  a  certain  spring)  and  root-tea  (a  compound 
of  gum,  herbs,  and  powdered  roots),  because  the  two  latter  serve 
only  as  a  remedy  for  jaundice.  At  the  same  time  it  is  permitted 
to  drink  tree-water  to  quench  one's  thirst,  and  one  may  anoint 
himself  with  root-oil  but  not  as  a  remedy. 

GEMARA:  "//  is  alloived,  however,  to  eat  wild  rosemary'' 
etc.  For  what  purpose  is  it  eaten  ?  To  drive  out  worms  in 
one's  liver.  What  is  it  eaten  with  ?  With  seven  white  dates. 
What  does  the  illness  (requiring  this  remedy)  arise  from  ?  From 
the  eating  of  meat  broiled  over  live  coals  and  the  drinking  of 
water  immediately  after  the  eating  on  an  empty  stomach  or 
from  eating  fat  meat,  beef,  nuts  or  Rapa-twigs  when  eaten  on 
an  empty  stomach  and  immediately  washed  down  with  water. 

The  mother  of  R.  A'hadboy  b.  Ami  made  a  remedy  for  a 
man  who  had  imbibed  poison  of  an  adder  by  cooking  laurel 
leaves  in  a  cupful  of  beer,  giving  it  to  the  man  to  drink,  then 
clearing  out  the  coals  from  a  burning  hearth,  placing  a  brick  on 
the  hearth  and  making  him  sit  on  that  brick  until  the  poison 
left  the  man  in  the  shape  of  a  green  fern.  R.  Ivia  said,  that  she 
did  not  cook  the  laurel  leaves  in  beer  but  in  a  quarter  lug  of  milk 
of  a  white  goat. 

One  who  swallowed  a  (small)  snake  should  eat  kostos  (an 
Indian  root  of  which  a  precious  salve  was  made,  called  in  the 
Bible  onycha)  in  salt  and  should  run  three  miles.  R.  Simeon 
b.  Ashi  once  saw  a  man  who  had  swallowed  a  snake,  so  he  dis- 
guised himself  as  a  Persian  horseman,  called  to  the  man,  com- 
pelled him  to  eat  kostos  with  salt,  then  chased  him  for  three 
miles.  In  consequence  of  fright  the  man  then  vomited  the 
snake  piece  by  piece. 

One  who  was  bitten  by  a  snake  should  get  a  bearing  (female) 
ass,  tear  her  open,  take  out  the  foetus,  and  apply  it  to  the 
wound. 

One  who  was  encircled  by  a  snake  should  run  to  the  water, 
take  a  basket,  place  it  over  the  snake's  head,  and  as  soon  as  the 
snake  winds  itself  around  the  basket,  throw  it  into  the  water 
and  escape. 

One  who  is  pursued  by  a  snake  should,  if  he  is  in  company 
of  a  friend,  jump  on  the  friend's  back  and  have  the  friend  carry 
him  at  least  four  ells  so  as  to  hide  the  scent  of  his  footsteps, 
or,  if  alone,  should  jump  over  a  stream  or  pond  of  water.      At 


TRACT   SABBATH.  227 

night  he  should  place  his  bed  on  four  empty  casks,  then  tie  four 
cats  to  the  casks,  and  sleep  in  an  unroofed  space.  He  should 
also  place  a  lot  of  twigs  and  dry  branches  in  front  of  his  bed, 
so  that  if  the  snake  glide  among  them  they  will  rustle,  in  which 
event  the  cats  will  hear  the  noise  and  devour  the  snake.  If 
one  is  pursued  by  a  snake,  he  should  run  to  a  sandy  place,  where 
it  is  hard  for  a  snake  to  glide. 

"  It  is  permitted  to  partake  of  all  usual  eatables,''  etc. 
What  does  the  Mishna  mean  to  add  by  the  word  "  all  "?  A  milt, 
which  is  good  for  the  teeth  (although  it  is  bad  for  a  weak  stom- 
ach), or  bran,  which  is  good  for  the  stomach  (but  bad  for  the 
teeth).  What  does  the  Mishna  mean  to  add  by  the  word  "  all," 
referring  to  beverages  ?  Water  of  Izlat  (Kaffir-corn)  boiled  with 
vinegar. 

"  With  the  exception  of  tree-water y  We  have  learned  in  a 
Boraitha:  "  With  the  exception  of  prickly  water."  One  who 
teaches  prickly  water  does  so  because  the  water  pricks  the  gall, 
and  one  who  teaches  tree-water  refers  to  water  running  out  of 
two  trees  ?  What  does  he  mean  by  this  ?  Said  Rabba  bar 
Brona:  "  There  are  two  date-trees  in  Palestine  that  are  called 
Thalai,  and  between  them  is  a  spring  of  water;  the  first  cup  of 
this  water  produces  a  weak  sensation  in  the  stomach,  the  second 
cup  purges  and  the  third  leaves  the  stomach  as  clear  as  when 
imbibed."  Said  Ula  :  "  I  drank  the  Babylonian  beer  with  better 
effects  than  that  tree-water,  but  it  is  only  then  effective  if 
drunk  for  the  first  time  in  forty  days.  R.  Joseph  said:  "  The 
water  called  prickly  water  above  is  Egyptian  beer,  which  is  one 
third  barley,  one  third  wild  saffron,  and  one  third  salt."  R. 
Papa  said :  It  is  one  third  wheat,  one  third  wild  saffron,  and 
one  third  salt,  and  it  should  be  drunk  between  Passover  and 
Pentecost,  when  it  will  relieve  constipation  and  stop  diarrhoea. 

''  And  root-tea.''  What  is  root-tea?  Said  R.  Johanan :  It 
is  made  of  Alexandrian  gum,  alum,  and  garden  saffron,  each 
the  weight  of  one  Zuz,  and  ground  together.  To  one  who 
suffers  with  too  frequent  menstruation,  three  cups  of  this  tea 
should  be  given  in  wine,  and  she  will  not  be  barren.  For  jaun- 
dice two  cups  are  to  be  administered,  in  beer,  but  the  patient 
will  be  barren  ever  after.  May  this  be  done  ?  Have  we  not 
learned  in  a  Boraitha:  Whence  do  we  know  that  castrating  a 
man  is  prohibited  ?  From  the  passage  [Lev.  xxii.  24]:  "  And 
in  your  land  shall  ye  not  make  the  like."  Which  means,  ye 
shall  not  do  this  on  your  own  bodies.      So  said  R.   Hanina  ? 


228  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

This  is  said  only  in  reference  to  one  who  has  the  intention  of 
making  one  a  eunuch,  but  not  with  reference  to  one  who  admin- 
isters the  remedy  for  jaundice,  and  incidentally  makes  one  impo- 
tent; as  R.  Johanan  said:  "  One  who  wishes  to  castrate  a  cock 
shall  cut  his  comb,  and  thus  the  cock  will  become  impotent." 
Did  not  R.  Ashi  say,  that  a  cock  whose  comb  is  cut  off  is  not 
rendered  impotent  thereby,  but,  being  very  proud,  will  have  no 
more  coition  with  hens  on  that  account  ?  Were  he  actually  ren- 
dered impotent,  it  would  not  be  allowed  to  remove  his  comb, 
for  it  is  written  [ibid.]  :  "  And  in  your  land  shall  ye  not  make  the 
like."  It  is  allowed  to  give  a  man  two  cups  of  root-tea  for 
jaundice,  providing  he  was  already  impotent.  But  even  this  is 
prohibited  (in  Menachoth  56) !  Say  rather  it  may  be  given  to  a 
woman  who  is  not  subject  to  the  command  of  bearing  children. 

MISHNA:  One  who  suffers  with  toothache  must  not  gargle 
vinegar  for  it,  but  he  may  dip  something  in  vinegar  and  apply  it, 
and  if  the  pain  is  relieved  thereby,  he  need  have  no  fear  of  the 
consequences.  One  who  has  pains  in  his  loins  must  not  rub 
them  with  wine  or  vinegar,  but  may  anoint  them  with  oil ;  not 
with  rose-oil,  however.  Children  of  princes  may  anoint  their 
wounds  even  with  rose-oil,  because  it  is  their  wont  even  on 
week-days  to  anoint  themselves  with  rose-oil.  R.  Simeon  said : 
"  All  Israelites  must  be  considered  as  children  of  princes." 

GEMARA:  R.  Aha  bar  Papa  asked  R.  Abuha  concerning 
the  following  contradiction  :  "  The  Mishna  teaches,  that  one  who 
has  a  toothache  must  not  gargle  with  vinegar,  implying  thereby, 
that  vinegar  is  a  remedy  for  toothache,  and  still  we  find  in  the 
passage  [Proverbs  x.  26] :  *  As  vinegar  is  to  the  teeth,  and  as 
smoke  is  to  the  eyes.'  "  This  presents  no  difificulty.  The 
Mishna  refers  to  an  injured  tooth,  whereas  the  passage  refers  to 
sound  teeth,  which  are  put  on  edge  by  vinegar. 

'' Must  not  gargle  vinegar.''  Have  we  not  learned  in  a  Bo- 
raitha,  that  it  is  not  allowed  to  gargle  vinegar  and  then  spit  it 
out,  but  if  swallowed  afterwards  gargling  is  allowed  ?  Said 
Abayi :  Such  is  also  the  intent  of  the  Mishna,  meaning,  if  he 
spit  out  after  gargling. 

''One  who  has  pains  in  his  loins,''  etc.  Said  R.  Aba  b.  Zabhda 
in  the  name  of  Rabh :  The  law  according  to  the  opinion  of  R. 
Simeon  prevails.  Shall  we  assume  that  Rabh  holds  with  R. 
Simeon  ?  Did  not  R.  Simi  bar  Hyya  say  in  the  name  of  Rabh, 
that  a  bung-head  tied  around  with  a  piece  of  cloth  must  not  be 
hammered  into  a  barrel  on  a  festival  (because  the  barrel  being 


TRACT   SABBATH.  229 

full  of  wine,  the  cloth  will  absorb  some,  and  by  being  pressed 
into  the  hole  the  wine  absorbed  will  run  out,  and  wringing  a 
thing  is  not  allowed),  although  the  wine  runs  out  of  its  own 
accord,  and  not  through  the  intention  of  the  man ;  but  accord- 
ing to  R.  Simeon  this  would  be  permitted  ?  Where  an  act  is 
concerned  which  will  most  certainly  be  consummated,  even  with- 
out the  agency  of  man,  as  the  head  of  a  creature  being  removed, 
death  must  surely  follow,  R.  Simeon  also  admits,  that  it  is  not 
allowed.  We  have  learned  elsewhere,  however,  explicitly,  that 
Hyya  bar  Ashi  said,  that  Rabh  holds  according  to  R.  Jehudah, 
and  Samuel  according  to  R.  Simeon  ?  (How  can  it  be  said  that 
Rabh  holds  with  R.  Simeon  ?)  Said  Rabha :  I  and  the  lion  of 
our  society  {i.e.,  R.  Hyya  bar  Abhin)  explained  this  as  follows: 
The  ordinance  prevails  according  to  R.  Simeon,  that  (rose-oil)  is 
allowed,  but  not  for  the  reason  advanced  by  R.  Simeon.  R. 
Simeon  says,  that  all  Israelites  are  considered  as  princes,  and 
therefore,  even  in  such  places  where  rose-oil  is  very  costly,  one 
may  also  anoint  himself  with  it ;  but  Rabh  says  it  is  allowed, 
because,  where  he  (Rabh)  resided,  rose-oil  was  very  cheap  (but 
where  it  is  costly  it  is  not  allowed). 


CHAPTER   XV. 

REGULATIONS     CONCERNING     THE     TYING     AND     UNTYING     OF     KNOTS 

ON    THE    SABBATH. 

MISHNA:  Following  are  the  knots  for  the  tying  of  which 
one  becomes  culpable.  The  knot  of  the  camel-drivers  (made  on 
the  guiding-ring)  and  the  knot  of  the  seamen  (made  on  the 
bow  of  a  ship);  just  as  one  becomes  culpable  for  tying  them, 
so  also  one  becomes  culpable  for  untying  them.  R.  Meir 
said:  "  One  does  not  become  culpable  for  any  knots  that  can  be 
untied  with  one  hand." 

GEMARA:  What  is  the  meaning  of  a  knot  of  the  camel- 
drivers  and  a  knot  of  seamen  ?  Shall  we  assume,  that  by  such  a 
knot  is  meant  the  one  that  is  tied  in  attaching  the  guiding-line 
suspended  from  the  nose-ring  of  a  camel  to  something  else,  and 
also  the  knot  made  in  attaching  the  hawser  of  a  ship  to  a  cap- 
stan on  the  dock  ?  (Such  knots  are  not  permanent,  why  should 
the  tying  of  them  be  prohibited  ?)  Nay;  by  that  knot  is  meant 
the  one  made  in  attaching  the  guiding-line  to  the  nose-ring  and 
the  hawser  to  the  ship  itself  (both  of  which  are  permanent 
knots). 

MISHNA:  There  are  knots  on  account  of  which  one  does 
not  become  culpable,  as  in  the  case  of  a  camel-driver's  or  sea- 
man's knot.  A  woman  may  tie  the  slit  of  her  chemise,  the 
bands  of  her  hood,  the  bands  of  her  girdle,  the  straps  of  her 
shoes  and  sandals ;  also  the  bands  of  leather  flasks  (filled)  with 
wine  or  oil,  and  of  a  pot  of  meat.  R.  Eliezer,  the  son  of 
Jacob,  says:  "  One  may  tie  a  rope  in  front  of  cattle,  in  order 
that  they  may  not  escape."  One  may  tie  a  bucket  (over  the 
well)  with  his  girdle,  but  not  with  a  rope.  R.  Jehudah  permits 
this  to  be  done  with  a  rope  also.  For  a  rule  was  laid  down  by 
R.  Jehudah :  One  is  not  culpable  for  any  knot  which  is  not  per- 
manently fastened. 

GEMARA:  Is  there  not  a  difficulty  in  understanding  the 
Mishna  itself  ?  The  first  part  states,  that  there  are  knots  on 
account  of  which  one  does  not  become  culpable,  etc.,  imply- 

230 


TRACT   SABBATH.  231 

ing,  therefore,  that,  while  one  who  ties  them  does  not  become 
liable  for  a  sin-offering,  at  the  same  time  he  must  not  do  it  to 
commence  with.  The  latter  part,  however,  says,  that  a  woman 
may  tie  the  slit  of  her  chemise,  etc.,  implying,  then,  that  she 
may  do  it  in  the  first  place  ?  The  Mishna  means :  There  are 
some  knots  for  the  tying  of  which  one  does  not  become  culpable, 
as  in  the  case  of  the  knots  of  the  camel-drivers,  etc.,  and  they 
are:  The  knots  by  means  of  which  the  guiding-line  is  attached 
to  the  nose-ring,  and  the  knots  by  means  of  which  the  hawsers 
are  attached  to  the  ship  itself.  For  tying  such  knots  one  does 
not  become  liable  for  a  sin-offering,  but  he  must  not  make  them 
to  commence  with  (because  at  times  the  knot  is  left  on  the  nose- 
ring or  on  the  ship  for  some  time),  and  there  are  other  knots 
which  may  be  tied  in  the  first  place,  such  as  the  slit  of  a 
woman's  chemise,  etc.  ;  what  would  he  inform  us  ?  Is  it  not 
self-evident,  that  a  woman  must  tie  the  slit  in  her  chemise.  The 
case  treated  of  is  where  a  chemise  has  two  slits,  an  upper  and 
a  lower,  and  it  can  be  put  on  (over  the  head)  even  if  the  lower 
one  is  tied.  We  might  assume,  then,  that  only  the  upper  one  of 
the  slits  would  be  permitted  to  be  tied ;  he  therefore  informs  us, 
that  both  the  upper  and  the  lower  may  be  tied  and  untied. 

The  bands  of  her  hood.''  Is  this  not  self-evident  ?  The 
case  is,  that  the  bands  of  the  hood  are  always  tied,  and  the 
woman  slips  on  the  hood  without  untying  or  tying  the  bands, 
and  we  might  assume  that  for  this  reason  the  knot  is  considered 
permanent ;  he  therefore  informs  us,  that  if  a  hair  become  entan- 
gled in  the  hood,  the  woman  may  tie  and  untie  the  bands. 

The  straps  of  her  shoes  and  sandals,''  etc.  R.  Jehudah, 
the  brother  of  R.  Sala  the  Pious,  had  a  pair  of  sandals,  which 
were  sometimes  worn  by  him  and  sometimes  by  his  child.  He 
came  to  Abayi  and  asked  him  whether  he  might  tie  and  untie 
them  (on  Sabbath).  Said  Abayi:  "  He  who  does  this  uninten- 
tionally becomes  liable  for  a  sin-offering."  Said  R.  Jehudah  to 
him:  "  If  thou  hadst  said,  that  one  is  not  culpable  for  doing 
this,  but  that  it  must  not  be  done  to  commence  with,  it  would 
seem  strange  to  me ;  thou  sayest  now,  that  one  is  liable  for  a  sin- 
offering."  Asked  Abayi:  "Why  so?"  Answered  R.  Jehu- 
dah: "  Because  on  week-days  I  sometimes  also  wear  the  sandals, 
and  (if  my  child  wishes  to  use  them)  I  untie  them  and  adjust 
them  to  the  child's  foot."  Answered  Abayi:  "  If  such  be  the 
case,  they  may  be  tied  or  untied  (on  the  Sabbath)  to  commence 
with." 


232  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

R.  Jeremiah  was  walking  behind  R.  Abuha  on  unclaimed 
ground,  and  the  band  of  his  sandal  having  been  torn  off,  he 
asked  R.  Abuha  what  to  do,  R.  Abuha  told  him  to  take  damp 
seaweeds,  which  an  animal  can  eat  (and  which  may  therefore  be 
handled  on  Sabbath),  and  tie  his  sandal. 

Abayi  stood  before  R.  Joseph  in  private  ground,  and  the 
band  of  one  of  his  sandals  becoming  torn  off,  he  asked  R. 
Joseph  what  to  do.  Said  R.  Joseph:  "  Leave  thy  sandal  here 
and  walk  without  it."  Asked  Abayi:  "  Wherein  does  my  case 
differ  from  that  of  R.  Jeremiah  ?"  Answered  R.  Joseph:  "  R. 
Jeremiah's  sandal  was  torn  off  in  unclaimed  ground,  where,  had 
he  left  it,  it  would  have  been  lost,  but  thine  is  in  my  yard  and 
will  be  safe."  Said  Abayi:  "But  the  sandal  is  a  perfect  vessel; 
for  I  can  put  it  on  my  other  foot  and  then  it  will  not  fall  off. 
Why  should  I  not  be  permitted  to  handle  it?"  R.  Joseph 
answered:  "Because  we  learned  elsewhere  in  regard  to  Cha- 
Htzah  that  R.  Johanan  interpreted  a  Boraitha  in  accordance  with 
R.  Jehudah,  who  says,  that  if  the  band  of  a  sandal  was  torn 
off,  the  sandal  cannot  be  regarded  as  a  vessel.  We  must  assume, 
therefore,  that  the  ordinance  according  to  R.  Jehudah  prevails." 

' '  Also  the  bands  of  leather  fiasks  filled  with  oil  or  wine, ' '  etc. 
Is  this  not  self-evident  ?  The  case  treated  of  is  where  the  flasks 
had  two  mouths,  and  lest  we  assume  that  only  one  of  them 
may  be  tied  and  untied,  he  informs  us  that  both  may  be  tied. 

''And  of  a  pot  of  meat.''  Is  this  not  self-evident  ?  The 
Mishna  means  to  state,  that  even  if  the  pot  have  an  opening  at 
the  bottom  it  might  be  assumed  that  the  knot  tied  around  the 
mouth  of  the  pot  is  permanent  and  should  not  be  untied.  We 
are  informed  that  it  may  be  untied,  nevertheless. 

"  R.  Eliezer,  the  son  of  Jacob,  said,''  etc.  Is  this  not  self-evi- 
dent ?  The  case  treated  of  is  where  there  were  two  ropes,  one 
tied  higher  up  and  the  other  lower.  We  might  assume,  that 
because  the  lower  one  is  tied  permanently  one  may  not  untie 
it ;  therefore  he  informs  us  that  both  may  be  tied  and  untied. 
Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  "  The  Halakha  pre- 
vails according  to  R.  Eliezer  ben  Jacob." 

' '  One  may  tie  a  bucket  with  his  girdle,  but  not  with  a  rope, 
etc.  What  kind  of  a  rope  is  not  permitted  ?  Is  it  an  ordinary 
rope?  Why  does  R.  Jehudah  permit  it  ?  It  remains  permanently 
tied  ?  Shall  we  assume  that  it  refers  to  the  rope  of  a  weaver  ? 
Why  is  it  not  permitted  ?  It  will  surely  be  removed,  because 
the  weaver  will  need  it  ?    Or  is  it  prohibited  simply  as  a  precau- 


TRACT    SABBATH.  233 

tionary  measure,  lest  some  one  tie  the  bucket  with  an  ordinary 
rope,  and  R.  Jehudah  does  not  entertain  this  apprehension  ? 
Then  it  is  contradictory  to  the  following  Boraitha:  "  A  rope  fas- 
tened to  a  bucket  which  became  torn,  should  not  be  tied  into  a 
firm  knot,  but  simply  tied  into  a  loop."  R.  Jehudah  says:  "  It 
should  be  joined  together  with  the  owner's  girdle,  but  it  must 
not  be  tied  into  a  loop."  This  would  be  a  case  of  where  both 
the  rabbis  and  R.  Jehudah  contradict  themselves.  There  is  no 
contradiction  at  all.  As  for  the  rabbis,  they  hold,  that  an  ordi- 
nary rope  may  be  mistaken  for  the  rope  of  a  weaver,  because 
both  are  called  ropes,  but  a  loop  cannot  be  mistaken  for  a  knot, 
because  they  have  different  names.  As  for  R.  Jehudah,  he  pro- 
hibits a  loop  to  be  made,  not  because  he  holds  that  a  loop  may 
be  mistaken  for  a  knot,  but  because  the  loop  in  this  case  is  equal 
to  a  knot. 

R.  Aba  in  the  name  of  R.  Hyya  b.  Ashi,  quoting  Rabh, 
said:  "  One  may  bring  a  rope  from  his  house  and  can  tie  it  to 
the  cow,  and  then  fasten  it  to  the  crib." 

R.  Johanan  asked  of  R.  Jehudah  bar  Levayi :  "  May  weaving 
utensils,  either  upper  or  lower,  be  handled  on  the  Sabbath  ?" 
Answered  R.  Jehudah:  "  Nay;  they  may  not."  "  Why  so  ?" 
"  Because  on  week-days  they  are  also  never  used  for  any  other 
purpose  (being  too  heavy) ;  hence  they  are  always  used  for 
weaving  alone  (and  therefore  must  not  be  handled  on  Sabbath)." 

MISHNA:  One  may  fold  his  clothes  (just  removed)  even 
four  or  five  times  (on  the  Sabbath).  On  the  eve  of  Sabbath 
one  may  prepare  his  beds  for  use  on  the  Sabbath,  but  not  at  the 
close  of  Sabbath  for  use  after  the  Sabbath  is  gone.  R.  Ishmael 
says:  "  One  may  arrange  his  clothes  and  prepare  his  beds  on  the 
Day  of  Atonement  for  the  Sabbath ;  further,  the  sacrificial  tal- 
low left  over  from  the  Sabbath  may  be  offered  up  on  the  Day  of 
Atonement  (if  the  two  succeed  one  another,  before  the  Jewish 
calendar  was  arranged) ;  but  not  such  as  is  left  over  from  the 
Day  of  Atonement  on  the  Sabbath."  R.  Aqiba  said :  "  Neither 
that  (tallow)  left  over  from  the  Sabbath  may  be  offered  up  on 
the  Day  of  Atonement,  nor  that  of  the  Day  of  Atonement  on 
the  Sabbath." 

GEMARA :  The  school  of  R.  Yanai  said :  The  Mishna  only 
permits  the  folding  of  clothes  by  one  man,  but  not  by  two,  and 
also  only  in  case  the  clothes  are  new,  but  not  if  they  are  old 
(because  old  clothes  are  better  preserved  by  folding).  New 
clothes  must  only  be  folded  if  they  are  white  clothes,  but  not  if 


234  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

they  are  colored.  White  clothes  may  be  folded  only  if  they 
constitute  all  the  garments  possessed  by  the  man ;  but  if  he  had 
others,  he  must  not  fold  even  those,  as  we  have  learned  in  a 
Tosephta:  "  The  family  of  R.  Gamaliel  did  not  even  fold  white 
clothes,  because  they  had  others  for  a  change." 

R.  Huna  said:  "  If  one  have  a  change  of  clothes  for  the 
Sabbath,  he  should  change  them ;  if  not,  he  should  at  least  let 
them  down.  "  *  R.  Saphra  opposed  this:"  If  one  let  down  his 
garments,  he  will  be  considered  as  a  vain  man."  If  he  does 
this  only  on  the  Sabbath  and  not  on  week-days,  he  will  not  be 
considered  vain  but  simply  as  one  desirous  of  keeping  the  Sab- 
bath with  due  respect,  as  it  is  written  [Isaiah  Iviii.  13]:  "  And 
honor  it  by  not  doing  thy  usual  pursuits."  "Honor  it"  is 
meant  to  imply  that,  by  wearing  different  clothes  on  the  Sabbath, 
the  Sabbath  should  be  honored,  for  R.  Johanan  calls  clothes  signs 
of  honor,  and  through  clothes  a  man  is  honored.  "  By  not 
doing  thy  usual  pursuits  "  means  that  the  walk  on  the  Sabbath 
should  not  be  as  on  week-days  [ibid,  ibid.]  :  "  By  not  following 
thy  own  business,"  means  to  say,  that  only  thy  own  business  is 
not  allowed,  but  heavenly  business  is.  "  And  speaking  (vain) 
words":  the  mode  of  speaking  on  Sabbath  should  not  belike 
that  on  week-days.  Speaking  is  not  allowed,  but  thinking  is. 
(All  this  is  perfectly  proper,  not  to  dress  as  on  week-days,  nor 
to  speak  as  on  week-days) ;  but  what  does  a  different  walk  on  the 
Sabbath  signify  ?  It  signifies,  that  one  should  not  make  long 
strides  on  the  Sabbath,  as  Rabbi  asked  of  R.  Ishmael  b.  R.  Jose : 
"May  one  make  long  strides  on  the  Sabbath?"  Answered 
he:  "  May  one  do  so  even  on  week-days  ?  For  I  say,  that  a 
long  stride  deprives  a  man  of  a  five  hundredth  part  of  the  light 
of  his  eyes.  A  remedy  for  this  is,  however,  the  drinking  of 
the  wine  over  which  the  benediction  is  made  on  the  eve  before 
the  Sabbath." 

It  is  written  [Ruth  iii.  3]  :  "  Therefore  bathe  and  anoint  thy- 
self, and  put  thy  garments  upon  thee,"  by  which,  said  R.  Ela- 
zar,  is  meant  the  Sabbath  garments. 

It  is  written  [Proverbs  ix.  9] :  "  Give  to  the  wise  (instruc- 
tion), and  he  will  become  yet  wiser."  Said  R.  Elazar:  By 
that   is  meant   Ruth  the  Moabite  and   the  Prophet  Samuel  of 


*  The  poor  of  those  days,  when  at  work — i.e.,  on  weekdays — used  to  roll  up  their 
long  garments  in  order  not  to  be  hindered  by  them  while  at  work.  The  rich  used  to 
wear  long  garments  at  all  times  ;  hence  the  above  decree  of  R.  Huna. 


TRACT   SABBATH.  235 

Ramah.  Naomi  said  to  Ruth:  "Therefore  bathe  and  anoint 
thyself,  and  put  thy  garments  upon  thee,  and  go  down  to  the 
threshing-floor,"  but  Ruth  did  as  it  is  written  further  [ibid.  6]: 
"  And  she  went  down  unto  the  threshing-floor,  and  did  in 
accordance  with  all  that  her  mother-in-law  had  commanded  her," 
which  means,  that  she  first  went  down  to  the  threshing-floor  and 
then  dressed  herself,  in  order  not  to  soil  her  clothes.  As  for 
Samuel,  when  Eli  said  unto  him  [I  Samuel  iii.  9] :  "  Go,  lie  down  ; 
and  it  shall  be,  if  he  call  thee,  that  thou  shalt  say,  Speak,  Lord ; 
for  thy  servant  heareth,"  he  did  at  the  time  as  it  is  written 
[ibid.  10]  :  "  And  the  Lord  came,  and  placed  himself,  and  called 
as  at  previous  times,  Samuel,  Samuel.  And  Samuel  said. 
Speak,  for  thy  servant  heareth,"  but  did  not  say,  "  Speak, 
Jehovah,"  as  he  was  told  to  do  by  Eli  (because,  not  knowing 
who  was  speaking,  he  did  not  want  to  speak  the  Lord's  name  in 
vain). 

It  is  written  [Ruth  ii.  3] :  "  And  she  went,  and  came,  and 
gleaned  in  the  field  after  the  reapers."  Said  R.  Elazar:  She 
went  and  came  to  and  fro  until  she  found  such  men  as  were  fit 
company  for  her.  "  Then  said  Boaz  unto  his  young  man  that 
was  appointed  over  the  reapers,  Whose  maiden  is  this  ?"  [ibid. 
5].  Was  it  proper  for  Boaz  to  inquire  whose  maiden  she  was  ? 
We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  He  (Boaz)  noticed  that  she  was 
very  modest,  for  when  gleaning  from  the  sheaves,  she  did  so 
standing  if  the  sheaves  were  also  standing,  and  if  the  sheaves 
were  on  the  ground,  she  did  not  stoop,  lest  she  reveal  some  of 
her  form,  but  sat  down  and  gleaned  in  that  position. 

"  But  keep  close  company  with  my  own  maidens  "  [ibid.  8]. 
Was  it  proper  for  Boaz  to  say  "  my  own  maidens  "  ?  Was  it  his 
custom  to  mingle  with  the  women  ?  Said  R.  Elazar:  "  Because 
Boaz  saw  that  '  Orpah  kissed  her  mother-in-law;  but  Ruth 
cleaved  unto  her'  [ibid.  i.  14],  he  thought,  that  if  she  were  such 
a  woman  it  would  be  proper  for  him  to  associate  with  her." 

"  And  Boaz  said  unto  her,  At  mealtime  come  near  hither 
(halom)  "  [ibid.  ii.  14].  Said  R.  Elazar:  "  By  the  word  '  halom  ' 
(near  hither)  Boas  hinted  to  her  that  from  her  would  spring 
the  kingdom  of  David,  who  used  the  expression  '  halom,'  as  it 
is  written  in  [II  Samuel  vii.  18]  :  '  Then  went  King  David  in  and 
sat  down  before  the  Lord,  and  he  said,  Who  am  I,  O  Lord 
Eternal  ?  and  what  is  my  house,  that  thou  hast  brought  me  as 
far  as  hitherward  (halom)  ? '  " 

"And  eat  of  the  bread,  and  dip  thy  morsel  in  the  vinegar" 


236  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

[Ruth  ii.  14].  "  From  this  it  can  be  inferred,  that  vinegar  is 
good  for  (relieving  excessive)  heat,"  said  R.  Elazar.  But  R. 
Samuel  ben  Na'hmeni  said :  "  This  was  also  a  hint  to  Ruth,  that 
from  her  would  spring  forth  a  son,  whose  deeds  would  be  sour 
as  vinegar,  and  that  was  King  Menasseh." 

"And  she  saated  herself  beside  the  reapers"  [ibid.  ibid.]. 
Said  R.  Elazar:  "  Beside  the  reapers  and  not  between  them, 
was  also  a  hint  that  the  kingdom  of  David  would  eventually  be 
divided/' 

"  And  he  reached  her  parched  corn,  and  she  ate,  and  was 
satisfied,  and  had  some  left."  Said  R.  Elazar:  (This  is  a  refer- 
ence to  the  kingdom  of  David)  "  Ate  at  the  time  of  David, 
was  satisfied  in  the  time  of  Solomon,  and  had  some  left  in  the 
time  of  King  Chizkyah."  Others  say:"  Ate  during  the  days  of 
David  and  Solomon,  was  satisfied  during  the  days  of  Chizkyah, 
and  had  some  left  in  the  time  of  R.  Jehudah  Hanassi  (a  de- 
scendant of  David),  whose  coachman  even,  according  to  the 
teaching  of  the  Master,  was  said  to  be  richer  than  the  Shahur 
(king,  shah)  of  Persia, "  In  a  Boraitha,  however,  we  have  learned : 
(This  passage  does  not  refer  to  the  kingdom  of  David  but  to 
Israel  in  general).  It  means:  "  Israel  ate  in  this  life,  will  be 
satisfied  in  the  times  of  the  Messiah,  and  shall  have  some  left 
in  the  world  to  come." 

R.  Hyya  bar  Aba  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  :  "  Whence 
do  we  know  that  a  change  of  clothes  is  a  biblical  prescription  ?  " 
Because  it  is  written  [Lev.  vi.  4]:  "And  he  shall  take  off  his 
garments,  and  put  on  other  garments,  and  carry  forth  the  ashes 
to  without  the  camp,  unto  a  clean  place."  This  was  commented 
upon  by  the  school  of  R.  Ishmael  to  mean,  that  the  clothes 
worn  while  cooking  for  one's  master  should  not  be  worn  when 
serving  the  master  at  table. 

The  same  teacher  said  again :  A  scholar  (Talmud-Chacham), 
upon  whose  clothes  a  stain  can  be  found,  deserves  to  be  put  to 
death,  for  it  is  written  [Proverbs  viii.  36]:  "  All  those  that  hate 
me  love  death."  Do  not  read,  "  those  that  hate  me  "  (mesanai), 
but  "  those  that  cause  others  to  hate  me"  (masnii)  (implying 
that  if  a  stain  is  noticed  on  a  scholar's  clothes,  the  whole  law  is 
held  lightly).  Rabhina  said:  "  In  the  Boraitha  was  taught  not 
'  upon  whose  clothes  a  stain  can  be  found,'  but  '  upon  v/hose 
oXo'iSx^s  grease  (Rebhad)  *  is  found."     They  do  not  differ,  how- 

*  Rashi  interprets  the  word  Rebhad  to  mean  "  semen." 


TRACT    SABBATH,  237 

ever.     The  former  refers  to  an  over-garment,  while  the  latter  to 
an  under-garment. 

R.  Johanan  said :  Who  can  be  called  a  scholar  trustworthy 
enough  to  be  believed  when  claiming  a  lost  article,  without  iden- 
tification, but  simply  by  seeing  the  article  lost  and  claiming  it 
as  his  own  ?  A  scholar  who  is  so  particular  that,  if  he  happen 
to  put  on  his  night-robe  wrong  side  out,  he  will  take  the  trouble 
to  take  it  off  again  and  adjust  it  properly. 

R.  Johanan  said  again :  "  Who  is  the  scholar  worthy  of  being 
made  the  president  of  a  congregation  ?"  The  one  who,  when 
asked  concerning  an  ordinance  bearing  on  any  subject,  knows 
exactly  what  to  answer,  even  such  ordinances  as  are  contained 
in  the  Tract  Kalah  (Kalah  is  a  supplement  to  the  Talmud,  which 
is  not  generally  read,  and  treats  of  a  bride). 

He  said  again:  "Who  is  the  scholar  that  is  deserving  of 
having  his  work  performed  by  his  fellow-citizens  ?  The  one  who 
neglects  his  own  affairs  to  attend  to  religious  affairs."  This 
refers,  however,  only  to  one  who  has  lost  his  subsistence  on 
account  of  his  congregational  duties. 

Again,  R.  Johanan  said:  "  Who  can  be  called  a  scholar  (Tal- 
mud-Chacham)  ?  One  who  can  give  the  interpretation  of  any 
ordinance  in  whichever  chapter  (or  tract)  that  may  be  shown 
him."  What  difference  does  that  make?  The  difference  is 
this:  If  a  man  is  familiar  only  with  the  ordinances  of  a  certain 
tract,  he  may  only  be  competent  to  be  the  presiding  ofificer  of 
one  community,  but  if  he  understand  them  all,  he  may  be  made 
the  chief  of  the  house  of  learning  in  a  whole  district. 

"  R.  Ishmael  says  :  '  Ofie  may  arrange  his  clothes,"  "  etc.  The 
rabbis  taught:  It  is  written  [Numb,  xxviii.  10]:  "This  is  the 
burnt-offering  of  the  Sabbath."  From  this  we  learn,  that  we 
may  offer  up  the  tallow  left  over  from  the  Sabbath  on  the  Day 
of  Atonement ;  but  one  might  say,  that  the  fat  left  over  on  the 
Day  of  Atonement  may  be  offered  up  on  the  Sabbath  also; 
therefore  the  passage  says  [ibid,  ibid.]:  "  on  every  Sabbath." 
So  says  R.  Ishmael,  but  R.  Aqiba  says,  "  '  This  is  the  burnt- 
offering  of  the  Sabbath  on  every  Sabbath,'  implies,  that  the  fat 
left  over  from  the  Sabbath  may  be  sacrificed  on  a  biblical  feast- 
day  ;  but  one  might  say,  that  it  may  be  done  also  on  the  day  of 
Atonement;  therefore  the  passage  says  '  on  every  Sabbath.'  " 

The  point  of  difference  between  R.  Ishmael  and  R.  Aqiba  is 
as  follows :  R.  Ishmael  contends  that  vow-offerings  and  volun- 
tary offerings  may  be  brought  on  feast-days,  and  therefore  the 

VOL.  II. — A 


238  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

term  "  every  Sabbath  "  cannot  refer  to  feast-days,  but  does  refer 
to.  the  Day  of  Atonement,  whereas  R.  Aqiba  contends  that  such 
offerings  must  not  be  brought  on  feast-days,  and  hence  "  every 
Sabbath"  impHes  that  the  fat  left  over  from  the  Sabbath  may 
be  offered  up  on  a  feast-day. 

R.  Zera  or  R.  Aba  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Huna:  "  If  the 
Day  of  Atonement  fall  on  a  Sabbath,  herbs  for  cooking  must 
not  be  selected  on  that  day."  Said  R.  Mana:  This  we  have 
learned  in  a  Boraitha  as  follows  :  "  Whence  do  we  know  that  if  the 
Day  of  Atonement  fall  on  a  Sabbath  herbs  must  not  be  selected  ? 
Because  it  is  written  [Exod.  xvi.  23]  :  '  A  rest,  a  holy  rest  is 
unto  the  Lord  to-morrow. '  ' '  Why  is  the  word  ' '  rest ' '  repeated  ? 
Shall  we  assume,  that  no  other  labor  must  be  performed  ?  This 
is  ordained  (in  Chapter  xx.  10):  "  Thou  shalt  not  do  any  work." 
It  must  therefore  refer  to  such  work  as  is  not  really  labor,  as 
"  selecting  herbs  "  (and  the  passage  must  refer  to  a  Sabbath  on 
which  the  Day  of  Atonement  happens  to  fall,  because  on  ordi- 
nary Sabbaths  no  additional  prescription  is  necessary;  but  it 
being  the  Day  of  Atonement,  on  which,  were  it  not  also  Sab- 
bath, such  work  would  be  permissible,  on  account  of  alleviating 
the  sufferings  caused  by  fasting,  we  might  assume  that  it  would 
be  allowed  also  on  a  Day  of  Atonement,  which  occurs  on  a  Sab- 
bath ;  therefore  the  passage  refers  to  a  Sabbath  upon  which  the 
Day  of  Atonement  happens  to  fall).  R.  Hyya  bar  Aba,  how- 
ever, in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  said :  Selecting  herbs  on  a  Sab- 
bath concurrent  with  the  Day  of  Atonement  is  permissible,  and 
the  repetition  of  the  word  "  rest  "  is  on  account  of  the  prohi- 
bition of  actual  labor,  and  as  for  there  being  another  ordinance 
to  that  effect,  it  is  for  the  purpose  of  signifying  that  the  trans- 
gressor of  this  commandment  will  be  punished  for  the  violation 
of  both  the  positive  and  the  negative  commandments. 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha  in  support  of  R.  Johanan : 
Selecting  herbs  on  a  Day  of  Atonement  concurrent  with  a  Sab- 
bath is  permissible.  Nuts  may  be  cracked  and  pomegranates 
cleaned  after  the  afternoon  prayer,  for  the  purpose  of  alleviat- 
ing the  suffering  of  the  fasting.  In  the  house  of  R.  Jehudah, 
cabbage  was  prepared,  and  in  Rabba's  house,  pumpkins  were 
cleaned.  Later  on  Rabba  noticed  that  this  was  being  done  even 
before  the  afternoon  prayer;  so  he  told  them  that  a  message  was 
received  from  R.  Johanan  of  Palestine  that  this  was  pro- 
hibited. 


CHAPTER    XVI. 

REGULATIONS    CONCERNING    ARTICLES    WHICH    MAY    BE    SAVED    FROM 
A    CONFLAGRATION    ON    SABBATH. 

MISHNA:  All  sacred  scriptures  maybe  saved  from  a  con- 
flagration (on  the  Sabbath);  be  such  scriptures  allowed  or  not 
allowed  to  be  read  on  Sabbath.  The  Scriptures  written  in  any 
language  whatsoever  must  be  considered  sacred,  and  brought  to 
a  safe  place,  even  on  a  week-day.  Why  are  some  (sacred  scrip- 
tures) not  allowed  to  be  read  (on  Sabbath)  ?  In  order  that  one 
might  not  miss  the  sermons  at  the  school-house.  One  may  save 
the  case  of  the  book  with  the  book,  the  case  of  the  Tephillin  with 
the  Tephillin,  even  if  money  is  contained  therein.  Where  must 
such  things  be  taken  (for  safety)  ?  In  a  closed  space  surrounded 
by  walks.  Ben  Bathyra  says:  "  Even  in  a  space  that  has  one 
side  open." 

GEMARA :  It  was  taught :  If  the  Scriptures  were  written 
in  Aramaic  (Targum),  or  in  any  other  language,  they  need  not 
be  saved  from  a  conflagration.  So  says  R.  Huna.  But  R. 
Hisda  says:  "  They  must  be  saved."  According  to  the  Tana 
who  holds,  that  all  of  the  scriptures  may  be  read  on  Sabbath, 
there  is  no  difference  of  opinion  between  R.  Huna  and  R.  Hisda, 
for  the  Scriptures  must  be  saved.  But,  according  to  the  Tana 
who  holds,  that  some  scriptures  may  and  others  may  not  be 
read  on  the  Sabbath,  R.  Huna  says,  that  the  latter  need  not  be 
saved,  while  R.  Hisda  says  they  must,  in  order  not  to  disgrace 
the  Scriptures.  An  objection  was  made:  "Our  Mishna  says, 
that  all  scriptures,  whether  allowed  to  be  read  on  the  Sabbath 
or  not,  or  even  if  written  in  whatever  language,  must.be  saved. 
We  must  assume,  that  the  readable  part  of  the  Scriptures  is  the 
Prophets  and  the  non-readable  part  is  the  Hagiographa,  and  if 
written  in  other  languages,  which  are  naturally  non-readable, 
they  must  nevertheless  be  saved.  How,  then,  can  R.  Huna  say, 
that  the  non-readable  need  not  be  saved?"  R.  Huna  might 
say:  How  can  this  explanation  of  the  Mishna  correspond  with 
the  further  ordinance  that  they  "  should  be  brought  to  a  safe 

239 


240  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

place  "  ?  If  it  says  that  they  must  be  saved  from  the  conflagra- 
tion, it  is  self-evident  that  they  must  be  brought  to  a  safe  place  ? 
What  is  the  correct  interpretation  of  the  Mishna  ?  R.  Huna 
interprets  it  according  to  his  understanding  thus:  "  The  read- 
able part  of  the  Scriptures  is  the  Prophets,  the  non-readable 
part  is  the  Hagiographa,  providing  they  are  written  in  the  holy 
language  (Hebrew),  but  if  written  in  other  languages  they  need 
not  be  saved;  but  although  they  need  not  be  saved  on  the  Sab- 
bath, if  they  lie  in  an  unfit  place  even  on  week-days,  they  must 
be  brought  into  a  safe  place."  R.  Hisda  interprets  the  Mishna 
according  to  his  understanding  thus:  "  The  readable  part  is  the 
Prophets,  the  non-readable  part  is  the  Hagiographa,  and  al- 
though written  in  other  languages  they  must  also  be  saved,  and 
the  term  '  should  be  brought  to  a  safe  place  *  refers  even  to  torn 
pieces  of  such  Scriptures  although  written  in  other  languages." 

Another  objection  was  made :  We  have  learned  in  a  Bora- 
itha:  "  If  they  (the  Scriptures)  are  written  in  Aramaic  or  any 
other  language,  they  must  be  saved  from  a  conflagration  ?  Is 
this  not  contradictory  to  R.  Huna's  opinion  ?  Nay;  R.  Huna 
may  say  that  the  Tana  of  the  Boraitha  holds  the  Scriptures  writ- 
ten in  other  languages  to  be  readable.  Come  and  hear:  Scrip- 
tures written  in  Coptic,  Median,  old  Hebrew,  Elamite  or  Greek, 
although  not  permitted  to  be  read,  must  be  saved  from  a  con- 
flagration." This  is  surely  a  contradiction  to  R.  Huna?  R. 
Huna  might  say:  There  is  a  diiTerence  of  opinion  among  the 
different  Tanaim,  as  we  have  learned  in  the  following  Tosephta: 
If  the  Scriptures  are  written  in  Aramaic  or  in  any  other  lan- 
guage, they  must  be  saved  from  a  conflagration,  but  R.  Jose 
says,  that  they  must  not.  Said  R.  Jose:  It  happened  that  Aba 
'Halafta  went  to  R.  Gamaliel  the  Great  in  Tiberias,  who  sat  at 
the  table  of  Johanan  the  Nazuph  (also  called  Ben  Nazuph),  and 
held  in  his  hand  the  book  of  Job  in  Aramaic,  which  he  was  read- 
ing. Said  Aba  'Halafta  to  R.  Gamaliel:  "  I  remember  having 
at  one  time  come  to  thy  grandfather  R.  Gamaliel,  who  stood  on 
the  steps  of  the  corridor  of  the  Temple  when  a  Book  of  Job  in 
Aramaic  wa§  brought  to  him.  He  told  the  mason  to  take  the 
book  and  immure  it  underneath  the  stairway."  Whereupon  the 
later  R.  Gamaliel  also  ordered  the  book  he  was  reading  to  be 
immured. 

The  rabbis  taught :  The  benedictions,  which  are  written  in 
Hebrew,  or  amulets  although  containing  letters  of  the  Holy 
Name  and  many  passages  of  the  Scriptures,  must  not  be  saved 


TRACT    SABBATH.  241 

from  a  conflagration,  but  may  be  burned  up  together  with  such 
letters  and  passages.  From  this  it  was  said,  that  one  who  writes 
benedictions  commits  an  act  equal  to  burning  up  the  Scriptures, 
as  it  happened  in  Zidon :  One  wrote  benedictions,  and  it  was 
told  to  R.  Ishmael.  R.  Ishmael  set  forth  to  investigate  the 
matter.  As  soon  as  the  man  saw  R.  Ishmael  approach,  he 
threw  the  writings  into  a  bowl  of  water.  Said  R.  Ishmael  to 
him  the  following  words:  "  The  punishment  thou  wilt  receive 
for  this  latter  deed  will  be  greater  than  that  for  writing  the 
benedictions." 

The  Exilarch  asked  of  Rabba  bar  R.  Huna:  If  the  Scriptures 
were  written  with  paint  or  with  dyes  and  in  the  holy  language, 
may  they  be  saved  from  a  conflagration  or  not  ?  I  ask  thee, 
taking  in  consideration  the  differences  of  opinion  existing  between 
the  different  Tanaim,  for  those  who  hold  that  Scriptures  written 
in  Aramaic  or  any  other  language  must  not  be  saved,  what  is 
their  opinion  regarding  such  as  are  written  in  the  holy  language 
and  not  with  ink  ?  Whereas  those  who  hold  that  the  Scriptures 
in  any  language  must  be  saved,  do  they  not  refer  to  such  as  are 
written  in  ink  only,  but  those  written  with  paint  or  dye,  even  if 
written  in  Hebrew,  should  also  not  be  saved  ?  Answered  Rabba 
bar  R.  Huna:  "  No,  they  must  not  be  saved."  Rejoined  the 
Exilarch  :  "  R.  Hamnuna  taught,  in  a  Boraitha,  that  they  may  ?  " 
Answered  Rabba:  "  If  such  was  taught  in  a  Boraitha,  it  must 
be  so!  " 

The  rabbis  taught :  Before  the  passage  [Numb,  x.  35]  :  "  And 
it  came  to  pass  when  the  ark  set  forward,  that  Moses  said, 
etc,"  and  at  the  close  of  the  next  verse,  the  Holy  One,  blessed 
be  He,  made  signs  (the  inverted  letter  Nun,  which  must  be 
inserted  in  the  Scroll)  in  order  to  signify  that  this  is  not  the 
proper  place  for  the  two  passages ;  but  Rabbi  says,  that  this  is 
out  of  the  question,  and  that  the  two  verses  form  a  valuable 
book  in  themselves.  We  have  heard  from  R.  Samuel  ben  Na'h- 
meni  in  the  name  of  R.  Jonathan,  that  we  have  not  a  Penta- 
teuch but  a  Septateuch*  {i.e.,  we  have  not  five  books  of  Moses, 
but  seven).  Would  this  imply  that  R.  Samuel  holds  with 
Rabbi  and  declares  that  there  are  seven  (because  the  two  verses, 
which  form  a  book  in  themselves,  divide  Numbers  into  two 
books)?  Who  is  the  Tana,  however,  that  differs  with  Rabbi? 
He  is  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel,  for  we  have  learned  in  a  Bora- 

*  In  the   Hebrew  introduction  to  Tract  Rosh  Hashana  this  entire  argument  is 
explained,  and  we  do  not  deem  it  advisable  to  translate  it  at  present. 


242  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

itha:  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel  says,  that  these  two  passages  will 
in  the  future  be  removed  and  put  in  their  proper  place.  Why- 
were  they  put  here,  then  ?  In  order  to  make  a  separation 
between  the  two  scourges  that  befell  the  Israelites.  Which 
was  the  second  scourge  ?  The  one  that  follows  immediately 
afterwards  [Numb.  xi.  i]  :  "And  it  came  to  pass,  that,  as  the 
people  complained  in  a  manner  displeasing  to  the  Lord,"  etc., 
etc.  And  which  was  the  first?  The  first  was  as  it  is  written  [ibid. 
X.  33]:  "  And  they  set  forward  from  the  mount  of  the  Lord," 
which,  according  to  R.  Hama  b.  Hanina,  means  "and  they 
departed  from  the  ways  of  the  Lord. ' '  Which  is  the  proper  place 
for  the  two  passages  ?  Said  R.  Ashi :  In  Numbers  ii.  (where  it 
is  decreed  how  every  man  should  walk  in  the  wilderness,  and  the 
end  of  the  chapter  stating  that  every  man  did  as  he  was  com- 
manded, should  be  followed  by  those  two  verses). 

The  schoolmen  asked :  May  the  blank  pieces  of  the  Scroll  of 
Laws  which  had  become  detached  from  the  Scroll  be  saved 
from  a  conflagration  on  Sabbath  or  not  ?  Come  and  hear:  The 
Gilyonim  (blank  pieces  of  the  Scroll)  and  the  Sadducean  books 
need  not  be  saved  from  the  conflagration.  They,  together  with 
the  holy  names  contained  in  them.  Does  not  the  word  Gil- 
yonim have  reference  to  the  blank  pieces  of  the  Scroll  ?  Nay; 
the  blank  pages  of  the  Sadducean  books.  How  can  it  mean  the 
blank  pages  of  the  Sadducean  books.  Why,  it  is  not  even  allowed 
to  save  the  Sadducean  books  themselves  ?  Perhaps  the  Boraitha 
means,  that  the  Sadducean  books  are  considered  as  blank  pages, 
and  hence  must  not  be  saved. 

The  text  of  the  Boraitha  says  further:  The  Gilyonim  and 
the  Sadducean  books  must  not  be  saved  from  a  conflagration ; 
R.  Jose  says,  that  on  week-days  the  Holy  Name  must  be  torn 
out  wherever  it  appears  and  preserved,  and  the  remainder  must 
be  burned;  but  R.  Tarphon  says:  May  I  bury  my  children,  if 
I  would  not  burn  such  books  together  with  the  Holy  Name, 
whenever  they  reached  my  hands ;  for  when  a  man  is  pursued 
by  murderers  or  by  a  snake,  it  were  better  for  him  to  seek  refuge 
in  the  terhple  of  an  idol  than  to  enter  the  houses  of  such 
people ;  for  the  idolaters  serve  their  idols  because  they  know  not 
God,  but  the  others  know  God  and  deny  him ;  they  (the  latter) 
are  referred  to  by  the  verse  [Isaiah  Ivii.  8]:  "And  behind  the 
doors  and  the  doorposts  hast  thou  placed  thy  remembrance" 
(implying  that  they  remember  the  Lord  very  well,  but  never- 
theless place  their  memory  behind  the  doors  and  doorposts). 


TRACT    SABBATH.  243 

Said  R.  Ishmael :  In  the  Scriptures  it  is  even  allowed  to 
erase  with  bitter  water  the  Holy  Name  of  God,  which  was  writ- 
ten in  a  holy  cause  in  order  to  bring  about  peace  between  man 
and  wife,  a  fortiori  it  should  be  allowed  in  the  case  of  those 
people  who  cause  discord  and  enmity  between  Israel  and  the 
Heavenly  Father.  To  them  David  had  reference  [in  Psalms 
cxxxix.  21,  22]:  "  Behold  those  that  hate  thee,  I  ever  hate,  O 
Lord !  and  for  those  that  rise  up  against  thee  do  I  feel  loathing. 
With  the  utmost  hatred  do  I  hate  them :  enemies  are  they 
become  unto  me."  So,  as  they  must  not  be  saved  from  a  con- 
flagration, they  must  also  not  be  saved  from  the  waters,  or  any- 
thing that  might  destroy  them. 

Joseph  bar  Hanin  asked  of  R.  Abuha:  "  May  the  books  of 
Be  Abhidon  be  saved?"  Answered  R.  Abuha:  Yea,  nay,  I 
really  cannot  tell.  Rabh  never  went  to  the  Be  Abhidon,  and  all 
the  more  not  to  the  Be  Nitzrephe.*  Samuel,  however,  never 
went  to  the  Be  Nitzrephe,  but  did  go  to  the  Be  Abhidon.  Mar 
bar  Joseph  said :  "  I  am  of  their  society  and  do  not  fear  them." 
Still  it  happened  at  one  time  that  he  was  in  danger  on  their 
account. 

Ema  Shalom,  the  wife  of  R.  EHezer,  who  was  also  a  sister  of 
R.  Gamaliel  the  Second,  encountered  a  philosopher  in  her  neigh- 
borhood who  was  a  judge,  and  had  the  reputation  of  being  inac- 
cessible to  bribery.  R.  Gamaliel  and  his  sister  wished  to  ridicule 
him  and  prove  that  he  was  accessible  to  bribery.  Ema  Shalom 
brought  him  a  golden  candle.  He  asked  her  what  she  wanted,  so 
she  answered :  "  My  father  is  dead,  and  I  wish  to  inherit  some  of 
his  possessions."  The  judge  said:  "  Go,  I  will  order  that  you 
be  given  your  share."  Said  she:  "  Thou  canst  not  order  it  so, 
because  our  law  decrees,  that  wherever  there  is  a  son  a  daughter 
cannot  inherit."  Answered  the  judge:  "Since  you  Israelites 
are  in  exile,  your  law  given  you  by  Moses  has  been  revoked,  and 
a  new  law  was  given  you  by  which  daughters  may  inherit 
equally  with  sons."  On  the  morrow  came  R.  Gamaliel  and 
brought  him  a  Libyan  ass,  and  told  him  that  he  did  not  wish  to 
let  his  sister  inherit.  Said  the  judge:  "  After  thy  sister  left  I 
consulted  the  law  again,  and  found  that  the  new  law  said:  '  I 
did  not  come  to  abolish  the  Mosaic  law,  neither  to  increase  nor 


*  We  render  these  names  without  translations,  as  we  also  do  in  the  case  of  Gilyo- 
nim,  because  of  the  incessant  discussions  concerning  them  among  Hebrew  theo- 
logians, and  we  do  not  desire  to  decide  the  definite  meaning. 


244  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

to  diminish  it.'  Hence  it  must  remain  as  in  the  old  law,  that 
where  a  son  is  left  a  sister  must  not  inherit."  Said  Ema 
Shalom  to  the  judge:  "  May  God  make  thy  light  as  bright  as  a 
candle."  Said  R.  Gamaliel  to  her  (in  the  presence  of  the 
judge):  "  An  ass  came  along  and  extinguished  thy  candle." 

' '  Why  are  some  {sacred  Scriptures)  not  allowed  to  be  read  {on 
the  Sabbath)  f  etc.  Said  Rabh:  "It  is  not  allowed  to  read 
such  Scriptures  only  during  the  time  of  the  sermons  at  the 
school-house,  but  at  any  other  they  maybe  read."  Samuel, 
however,  said,  that  even  at  any  other  time  they  must  not  be 
read,  because  he  holds  with  R.  Nehemiah  as  we  have  learned 
in  the  following  Boraitha:  "Although  it  was  said  that  the 
Hagiographa  should  not  be  read,  still  they  may  be  discussed 
and  lectured  upon,  and  when  a  quotation  must  be  made,  the 
book  maybe  referred  to  and  the  quotation  read."  Said  R. 
Nehemiah:  "  Why  was  it  prohibited  to  read  the  Hagiographa 
on  the  Sabbath  ?  In  order  that  it  might  be  said :  As  it  is  for- 
bidden to  read  the  Hagiographa,  it  is  all  the  more  so  forbidden 
to  read  ordinary  papers." 

"  /«  a  closed  space  surrounded  by  walls.''  What  is  to  be 
understood  by  the  term  "closed  space"?  Said  R.  Hisda: 
"This  refers  to  a  lane  surrounded  on  three  sides  by  walls  and 
having  on  the  fourth  side  two  beams.  If  the  lane  have  three  walls 
and  two  beams  it  is  a  closed  space,  if  it  have  only  one  beam  on 
the  fourth  side  it  is  an  open  place,  and  the  Tana  of  the  Mishna  as 
well  as  Ben  Bathyra  hold  in  accordance  with  the  opinion  of  R. 
Eliezer,  who  decided  to  that  effect  elsewhere."  Said  Rabba  to 
R.  Hisda:  "  Dost  thou  call  a  space  surrounded  by  three  walls  and 
one  beam  an  open  place  ?  If  this  be  so,  according  to  the  sages, 
why  cannot  victuals  and  beverages  also  be  brought  there,  not 
alone  Scriptures  ?  In  my  opinion,  two  walls  and  two  beams, 
one  on  each  side,  form  a  closed  space,  and  two  walls  with  only 
one  beam  constitute  an  open  space.  And  the  two  Tanaim  of 
the  Mishna  are  not  in  accord  with  R.  Eliezer,  but  with  R.  Jehu- 
dah,  who  opposes  him  (in  Tract  Erubin)." 

Said  Abayi  to  Rabba:  "  And  why  should  not,  according  to 
thy  explanation,  victuals  and  beverages  be  brought  there  (for 
safety)  in  conformity  with  the  opinion  of  the  sages  ?"  Said  R. 
Ashi,  however,  "  The  two  Tanaim  of  the  Mishna  are  of  the 
opinion  of  R.  Eliezer,  and  a  closed  place  is  formed  by  three  walls 
and  one  beam,  while  an  open  place  is  made  by  three  walls  with- 
out  any  beam   at   all ;   and   even   according   to    R,  Eliezer,  who 


TRACT    SABBATH.  245 

requires  two  beams,  it  is  only  for  the  bringing  thither  of  victuals; 
but  for  the  safe  keeping  of  the  Scriptures,  R.  Eliezer  holds  even 
one  beam  to  be  suf^cient." 

MISHNA:  One  may  save  enough  victuals  to  last  for  three 
meals  (on  the  Sabbath  in  the  event  of  a  conflagration).  Such  food 
as  is  fit  for  human  beings  may  be  saved  for  the  use  of  human 
beings,  and  such  as  is  fit  for  cattle  may  be  saved  for  cattle. 
How  so  ?  If  a  conflagration  happen  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath,  one 
may  save  enough  victuals  for  three  meals.  If  it  occur  in  the 
forenoon  of  Sabbath,  one  may  save  enough  for  two  meals,  and 
if  it  occur  in  the  afternoon  of  Sabbath  one  may  only  save 
enough  for  one  meal.  R.  Jose,  however,  says :  ' '  One  may  at  all 
times  save  enough  for  three  meals." 

GEMARA:  Let  us  see!  Why  should  it  only  be  allowed  to 
save  three  meals,  or  two,  or  one  ?  (It  says,  further  on,  that  the 
victuals  for  the  meals  are  to  be  brought  into  such  a  place  as  is 
covered  by  an  Erub.  In  such  a  place  things  may  be  carried,  and 
the  things  themselves  may  also  be  handled,  then  why  should  one 
not  be  allowed  to  save  more  than  enough  for  three  meals  ?)  Said 
Rabha:  Because  a  man  is  anxious  for  his  possessions,  he  might, 
if  allowed  to  save  as  much  as  possible,  forget  about  the  Sabbath 
and  extinguish  the  fire  altogether.  Said  Abayi  to  him:  "  We 
have  learned  previously,  that  a  man  upon  whose  roof  a  barrel 
filled  with  victuals  becomes  broken,  may  bring  another  vessel  and 
put  it  underneath  the  barrel  in  order  that  the  contents  of  the 
barrel  fall  into  the  vessel,  but  may  not  bring  another  barrel  and 
transfer  the  contents  of  the  broken  one  into  the  new,  nor  may 
he  place  a  new  barrel  alongside  of  the  other  and  remove  the 
contents  of  the  broken  one  into  the  new  one  by  keeling  over 
the  former  and  letting  its  contents  drop  into  the  latter.  Why 
should  he  not  be  allowed  to  do  this  ?  (He  is  on  private  ground, 
and  the  barrel  with  its  contents  may  be  handled  ?)  If  it  is  pro- 
hibited as  a  precautionary  measure  in  the  manner  of  the  previ- 
ous case,  where  does  the  precaution  arise  ? "  This  latter  case  is 
also  a  precautionary  measure  ;  for  were  he  allowed  to  remove  the 
contents  from  one  barrel  into  another,  there  is  fear  of  his  carry- 
ing it  through  public  ground.  The  text  of  the  Boraitha,  how- 
ever, teaches  further,  that  if  the  man  had  guests  in  his  house, 
he  may  remove  the  contents  of  the  broken  barrel  into  a  new 
one,  etc.  But  he  may  not  first  remove  the  contents  and  then 
call  guests,  but  first  call  guests  and  then  remove  the  things;  nor 
may  he  pretend  (to  call  guests),  but  must  actually  desire  their 


246  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

company.     In  the  name  of  R.  Jose  bar  R.  Jehudah  it  was  said, 
that  even  calling  guests  as  a  pretext  is  also  allowed. 

The  rabbis  taught :  If  one  had  saved  (from  the  fire)  fine 
bread,  he  must  not  return  and  save  coarse  bread,  but  if  he  first 
saved  the  coarse  he  may  return  and  save  the  fine.  One  may 
also  save  enough  on  the  Day  of  Atonement  in  the  event  of  a 
fire  (when  that  day  is  succeeded  by  Sabbath)  to  last  him  through 
the  Sabbath  also,  but  on  a  Sabbath  it  is  not  permitted  to  save 
enough  for  the  Day  of  Atonement  (if  the.  Sabbath  falls  on  the 
day  before),  and  all  the  more  so  is  it  not  allowed  if  the  Sabbath 
precedes  a  feast-day ;  nor  is  it  allowed  to  save  on  one  Sabbath 
for  the  following  Sabbath. 

The  rabbis  taught:  If  one  forgets  bread  in  an  oven,  and  in 
the  meantime  the  Sabbath  sets  in,  it  is  allowed  to  save  enough 
bread  to  last  for  three  meals ;  and  one  may  say  to  bystanders, 
"  Come  and  take  out  as  much  as  ye  need  "  ;  and  when  taking  out 
the  bread  it  should  not  be  done  with  a  baker's  shovel,  but  with 
some  other  utensil.  R.  Hisda  said  :  A  man  should  see  that  every- 
thing should  be  prepared  on  Friday  for  the  Sabbath  as  early  as 
possible,  as  it  is  written  [Exodus  xvi.  5] :  "  And  it  shall  come  to 
pass,  on  the  sixth  day,  when  they  prepare  what  they  shall  have 
brought  in,"  etc.,  and  this  means,  that  as  soon  as  the  sixth  day 
sets  in,  preparations  for  the  Sabbath  should  be  begun. 

R.  Aba  said:  "A  man  must  pronounce  the  benediction  over 
two  loaves  on  the  Sabbath,"  for  it  is  written  [ibid.  xvi.  5]: 
"Double  bread."  Said  R.  Ashi :  "  I  noticed  the  manner  in 
which  R.  Kahana  did  this :  He  would  hold  two  loaves,  but  would 
cut  only  one,  because  it  is  written  [ibid.  xvi.  18]:  *  Every  man 
according  to  his  eating  had  he  gathered.'  "  R.  Zera  used  to  cut 
off  the  loaf  suflficient  to  last  him  for  the  entire  meal.  Asked 
Rabhina  of  R.  Ashi:  "  Does  this  not  seem  gluttonous,  to  hold 
so  large  a  piece  in  one's  hand  ?  "  Answered  R.  Ashi :  "  Because 
on  week-days  such  was  not  his  wont,  it  does  not  appear  glutton- 
ous on  Sabbath,  and  R.  Zera  did  this  only  in  honor  of  the  day." 
R.  Ami  and  R.  Assi,  if  happening  to  have  the  same  bread  used 
in  making  an  Erub,  for  use  on  Sabbath,  would  pronounce  the 
benediction  over  the  bread,  for  they  said  that  because  one  relig- 
ious duty  had  been  fulfilled  with  that  bread,  it  should  be  used 
to  fulfil  another  religious  duty." 

How  so :  If  a  coyiflagration, ' '  etc.  The  rabbis  taught :  How 
many  meals  should  a  man  eat  on  the  Sabbath  ?  Three.  R. 
'Hidka  said   four.     Said  R.  Johanan :  Both  the  rabbis  and  R. 


TRACT   SABBATH.  247 

'Hidka  adduced  their  opinions  from  the  same  passage,  as  fol- 
lows [Exodus  xvi.  25]:  "  And  Moses  said,  Eat  it  to-day;  for  a 
Sabbath  is  this  day  unto  the  Lord:  to-day  ye  will  not  find  it  in 
the  field."  R.  'Hidka  holds  that,  day  being  mentioned  three 
times,  three  meals  should  be  eaten  during  the  day  and  one  at 
night,  and  the  rabbis  hold  that  the  day  includes  the  night  and 
only  three  meals  are  required.  Our  Mishna,  however,  which 
decrees  that  only  enough  for  three  meals  should  be  saved,  does 
therefore  not  agree  with  R.  'Hidka.  According  to  whose  opin- 
ion, however,  will  the  following  Mishna  be  ?  (Tract  Peah) :  "  If 
a  poor  man  have  sufficient  for  two  meals,  he  must  not  apply  for 
another  at  the  public  kitchen  (where  food  is  distributed),  but  he 
may  apply  to  the  general  charity  fund.  If  he  have,  however, 
sufficient  for  fourteen  meals  (for  the  week)  he  must  not  even 
apply  to  the  general  charity  fund!  "  If  the  Mishna  were  of  the 
opinion  of  R.  'Hidka,  he  should  have  had  sufficient  for  sixteen 
meals,  so  as  to  afford  him  four  meals  on  the  Sabbath,  and, 
according  to  the  rabbis,  for  fifteen  meals  in  order  to  have  three 
meals  on  the  Sabbath  ?  It  is  therefore  neither  in  accord  with 
R.  'Hidka  nor  with  the  rabbis.  Nay;  it  is  in  accord  with  the 
rabbis,  and  the  poor  man  should  eat  his  Sabbath-night  meal  on 
the  Sabbath  day,  so  with  his  Friday-night  meal  it  will  make 
three  meals  on  the  Sabbath.  It  may  also  be  said  that  the 
Mishna  holds  with  R.  'Hidka,  and  that  the  poor  man  should 
leave  his  Friday  meal  for  the  Sabbath.  Shall  we  make  the  poor 
man  then  fast  on  Friday  ?  It  would  therefore  be  better  to 
hold  the  Mishna's  opinion  to  be  in  accord  with  R.  Aqiba,  who 
says,  that  the  poor  man  should  make  Sabbath  equal  to  a  week- 
day in  order  not  to  be  forced  to  rely  upon  charity.  Thus  four- 
teen meals  are  sufficient,  and  he  may  eat  only  two  on  Sabbath. 
But  according  to  whose  opinion  is  the  Mishna  (Tract  Peah) : 
"  If  a  wandering  mendicant  come  to  a  town,  he  must  be  given  a 
loaf  which  can  be  bought  for  a  Pundian  (one  forty-eighth  of  a 
Sela)  when  the  price  of  flour  is  one  Sela  for  four  Saahs  (and  the 
sages  calculated  that  such  a  loaf  is  sufficient  for  two  meals).  If 
he  remain  over  night  he  must  be  given  lodging,  and  if  he  remain 
over  Sabbath  he  must  be  given  three  meals  for  Sabbath. "  Shall 
we  assume,  that  this  Mishna  holds  with  the  rabbis  and  not  with 
R.  'Hidka  ?  It  might  also  be  in  accord  with  R.  'Hidka  if  the 
mendicant  happen  to  have  one  meal  with  him,  he  is  told  to 
eat  the  one  he  has  and  is  given  three  more.  Should  the  mendi- 
cant then  depart  empty-handed  ?     Nay ;  he  is  also  given  a  meal 


248  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

to  take  along  on  the  way.  What  must  he  be  given  for  lodging  ? 
Said  R.  Papa :  Enough  to  hire  a  bed  and  a  pillow. 

The  rabbis  taught :  The  dishes  used  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath 
may  be  cleansed  for  the  Sabbath-morning  meal.  The  dishes 
used  in  the  morning  may  be  cleansed  for  the  mid-day  meal,  and 
those  of  the  mid-day  meal  for  the  afternoon ;  but  those  of  the 
afternoon  must  not  be  cleansed  until  the  Sabbath  is  over.  All 
this  is  said  concerning  dishes;  but  glasses,  cups,  and  all  drinking 
utensils  may  be  cleansed  at  any  time,  because  there  are  no  fixed 
times  for  drinking. 

R.  Simeon  ben  Pazi  in  the  name  of  R.  Jehoshua  ben  Levi, 
quoting  Bar  Qapara,  said :  One  who  keeps  the  commandment  to 
eat  three  times  on  the  Sabbath  will  be  rid  of  three  punishments, 
viz.:  "The  tribulations  (at  the  time)  of  Messiah;  the  punish- 
ment of  Gehenna,  and  the  war  of  Gog  and  Magog."  From  the 
tribulations  of  Messiah,  because  the  Sabbath  is  always  men- 
tioned as  the  day,  and  it  is  written  [Malachi  iii.  23]  :  "  Behold,  I 
send  unto  you  Elijah  the  prophet  before  the  coming  of  the  day  of 
the  Lord,  the  great  and  the  dreadful."  From  the  punishment 
of  Gehenna,  because  it  is  written  [Zephaniah  i.  15] :  "A  day  of 
wrath  is  that  day,"  etc.,  meaning  the  Gehenna.  From  the  war 
of  Gog  and  Magog,  because  it  is  written  [Ezekiel  xxxviii.  18]: 
"  On  the  day  of  Gog's  coming." 

R.  Johanan  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Jose:  One  who  makes  the 
Sabbath  pleasant  will  be  rewarded  with  a  boundless  inheritance, 
as  it  is  written  [in  Isaiah  iviii.  14]  :  "  Then  shalt  thou  find  delight 
in  the  Lord ;  and  I  will  cause  thee  to  tread  upon  the  high  places 
of  the  earth,  and  I  will  cause  thee  to  enjoy  the  inheritance  of 
Jacob  thy  father;  for  the  mouth  of  the  Lord  hath  spoken  it." 
Not  the  inheritance  of  Abraham,  concerning  whom  it  is  written 
[Genesis  xiii.  17] :  "  Arise,  walk  through  the  land  in  the  length 
of  it  and  in  the  breadth  of  it,"  etc.,  and  not  as  in  the  case  of 
Isaac,  as  it  is  written  [ibid.  xxvi.  4] :  "  And  I  will  give  unto  thy 
seed  all  these  countries,"  but  as  it  is  written  of  Jacob  [ibid, 
xxviii.  14]:  "  And  thy  seed  shall  be  as  the  dust  of  the  earth, 
and  thou  shalt  spread  abroad  to  the  west  and  to  the  east,  and 
to  the  north  and  to  the  south." 

R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak  said  :  (The  man  who  makes  the  Sab- 
bath pleasant)  will  also  be  saved  the  pain  of  exile,  because  it  is 
written  [Isaiah  Iviii.  14]  :  "  And  I  will  cause  thee  to  ride  upon  the 
high  places  of  the  earth,"  and  [Deut.  xxxiii.  29]:  "  And  thou 
shalt  tread   upon   their  high  places."     Said  R,  Jehudah  in  the 


TRACT   SABBATH.  249 

name  of  Rabh,  "  He  who  makes  the  Sabbath  pleasant  is  given 
everything  his  heart  desires, ' '  because  it  is  written  [Psalms  xxxvii. 
4]  :  "  And  delight  thyself  in  the  Lord,  and  he  will  give  thee  the 
wishes  of  thy  heart."  What  is  meant  by  "  delight"  ?  From 
the  passage  [Isaiah  Iviii.  13]:  "If  thou  call  the  Sabbath  a 
delight,"  we  can  adduce  that  the  delight  means  Sabbath. 

Wherewith  should  the  Sabbath  be  made  pleasant  ?  Said  R. 
Jehudah,  the  son  of  R.  Samuel  bar  Shilath,  in  the  name  of 
Rabh:  "With  a  mess  of  beets,  large  fish,  and  garlic-heads." 
But  R.  Hyya  bar  Ashi  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  "  Even  with 
any  dish  whatever  prepared  especially  for  the  Sabbath."  What 
does  "any  dish  whatever"  mean?  Said  R.  Papa:  "Even 
small  fish  fried  in  oil." 

R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  "  If  the  Israelites 
had  kept  the  first  Sabbath  (after  the  commandments  were  given) 
properly,  no  nation  or  race  on  earth  could  have  harmed  them. 
For  it  is  written  [Exodus  xvi.  27] :  '  And  it  came  to  pass  on 
the  seventh  day  that  there  went  out  some  of  the  people  to 
gather;  but  they  found  nothing.'  And  not  long  afterwards 
Amalek  attacked  the  Israelites." 

R.  Johanan  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Simeon  ben  Jochai:  "  If 
the  Israelites  were  to  keep  two  Sabbaths  in  succession  as  they 
should,  they  would  immediately  be  released  from  exile,  for  it  is 
written  [Isaiah  Ivi.  6] :  '  Also  the  sons  of  the  stranger,  that 
join  themselves  unto  the  Lord,  to  serve  him,  and  to  love  the 
name  of  the  Lord,  to  be  unto  him  as  servants,  every  one  that 
keepeth  the  Sabbath  by  not  violating  it,  and  those  who  take 
hold  of  my  covenant,'  and  immediately  afterwards  it  is  written 
[ibid.  ibid.  7] :  '  Even  these  will  I  bring  to  my  holy  mountain.'  " 

R.  Jose  said:  "  May  my  share  in  the  world  to  come  be  with 
those  who  eat  three  meals  on  the  Sabbath."  Again  he  said: 
"  May  my  share  in  the  world  to  come  be  with  those  who  recite 
Hallel*  everyday."  This  is  not  so.  The  Master  says,  that 
he  who  recites  Hallel  every  day  is  a  blasphemer.  Nay;  R. 
Jose  does  not  mean  Hallel,  but  Hallelujah. 

R.  Jose  said  again :  "  May  my  share  in  the  world  to  come  be 
with  those  who  perform  their  morning  devotion  as  soon  as  the 
sun  begins  to  rise."  Again  said  he:  "  May  my  share  be  with 
those  who  die  of  abdominal  disease,  for  the  Master  said,  that 
most  of  the  righteous  die  of  bowel  troubles."     He  also  said: 

*  Hallel  is  called  the  section  of  the  Psalms  from  Chapter  cxiii.  to  cxix. 


250  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

"  May  my  share  be  with  those  who  die  when  about  to  fulfil  a 
commandment  ;  also  with  those  who  receive  the  Sabbath  in 
Tiberias  and  see  it  out  in  Zipporias  (Tiberias  was  in  a  valley  and 
Zipporias  on  a  hill);  also  with  those  who  remain  in  the  houses 
of  learning,  and  not  with  those  who  attempt  to  draw  scholars  away 
from  their  studies;  also  with  those  who  solicit  alms  but  not  with 
those  who  dispense  alms ;  also  with  those  who  are  suspected  but 
are  not  guilty."  Said  R.  Papa:  "  I  have  been  suspected  but 
was  not  guilty."  Said  R.  Jose:  "  I  have  gone  in  unto  my  wife 
five  times  and  have  planted  five  cedars  in  Israel."  Who  are 
they  ?  R.  Ishmael,  R.  Eliezer,  R.  'Halafta,  R.  Aftiles,  and 
R.  Mena'hem,  all  sons  of  R.  Jose.  But  he  also  had  a  son  called 
Vradimos  ?  Nay;  Vradimos  is  the  same  as  R.  Mena'hem,  and 
the  reason  he  was  called  Vradimos  was  because  his  face  was  as 
beautiful  as  a  rose  (Vrad  is  Aramaic  for  rose). 

Said  R.  Jose  again  :  "  In  all  my  days  the  ceiling  of  my  house 
never  saw  the  seam  of  my  undershirt."  Again  said  he:  "I 
never  acted  contrary  to  the  advice  of  my  colleagues.  I  know 
v/ell  that  I  am  not  a  descendant  of  priests,  but  when  my  col- 
leagues asked  me  to  pronounce  a  benediction  usually  said  by 
priests,  I  did  so."  Again  he  said:  "  I  never  said  a  thing  that  I 
afterwards  repented  having  said." 

R.  Na'hman  said:  "  May  it  be  accounted  to  me  (for  my 
reward),  that  I  have  observed  the  three  meals  (in  honor  of  the) 
Sabbath."  R.  Jehudah  said:  "  May  it  be  accounted  to  me, 
that  I  have  given  my  prayers  preliminary  consideration."  *  R. 
Huna,  the  son  of  R.  Jehoshua,  said:  "  May  it  be  accounted  to 
me,  that  I  have  never  walked  four  ells  with  uncovered  head." 
R.  Shesheth  said:  "  May  it  be  accounted  to  me,  that  I  have  ob- 
served the  commandment  of  Tephillin,"  and  R.  Na'hman  said 
again:  "  May  it  be  accounted  to  me,  that  I  have  observed  the 
commandment  of  Tzitzith  (showthreads). " 

Said  R.  Joseph  to  R.  Joseph  the  son  of  Rabha:  "Canst 
thou  tell  me  which  commandment  thy  father  observed  most 
punctually?"  The  answer  was:  "The  commandment  of 
Tzitzith.  For  it  happened  one  day  that  my  father  was  ascending 
the  stairway,  and  a  thread  of  his  Tzitzith  becoming  torn  off,  he 
would  not  leave  his  place  until  a  new  thread  had  been  brought 
to  him  and  the  Tzitzith  were  mended." 

Said  Abayi :  "  May  it  be  accounted  to  me,  that  whenever  I 

*  It  is  stated  elsewhere  (in  Tract  Rosh  Hashana)  that  R.  Jehudah  prayed  only 
once  in  every  thirty  diiys. 


TRACT   SABBATH.  251 

noticed  a  young  scholar  (of  my  college)  had  finished  a  Tract  of 
the  Talmud,  I  gave  a  feast  to  all  the  sages  of  the  day."  Said 
Rabha:  "  May  it  be  accounted  to  me,  that  whenever  a  young 
scholar  and  another  man  came  before  me  for  judgment,  I  did 
not  put  my  head  on  the  pillow  (rest)  until  I  exhausted  every 
means  to  find  the  scholar's  words  prove  the  justice  of  his  claim." 
Said  Mar,  the  son  of  R.  Ashi :  "  I  am  unfit  to  judge  a  young 
scholar  because  I  love  him  as  well  as  I  do  myself,  and  no  man 
can  see  himself  unjust." 

R.  Hanina  used  to  wrap  himself  in  a  cloak  on  the  eve  of  Sab- 
bath and  say:  "  Come  with  me,  and  let  us  go  toward  Sabbath 
the  queen."  R.  Yanai  used  to  clothe  himself  in  his  holiday 
clothes  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath  and  say:  "  Come,  bride;  come, 
bride." 

Rabba,  the  son  of  R.  Huna,  came  as  a  guest  to  the  house  of 
Rabba  the  son  of  R.  Na'hman.  At  the  table  three  cakes  steeped 
in  the  fat  of  the  ram  (which  were  only  served  on  special  occasions) 
were  placed  before  him.  Said  he  to  his  host :  "  Didst  thou  know 
that  I  would  come  to  visit  thee  ?"  Answered  the  host:  "  Art 
thou  then  better  than  the  Sabbath  ?  (We  prepare  it  usually 
for  every  Sabbath,  as  it  is  written :  '  And  thou  shalt  call  the 
Sabbath  a  pleasure.')" 

R.  Aba  used  to  buy  on  the  eve  of  every  Sabbath  thirteen 
Isteris'  (six  and  a  half  Dinars)  worth  of  meat  from  thirteen 
different  butchers,  and  would  hand  them  the  money  immediately 
upon  their  entering  his  door*  and  delivering  the  meat,  saying  to 
them:  "  Make  haste,  make  haste  and  deliver  your  orders  to 
others."  R.  Abuha  used  to  sit  on  an  ivory  stool  and  make  fire 
in  honor  of  the  Sabbath.  R.  Anan  used  to  don  a  black  apron 
in  order  to  show  that  this  day  (the  eve  of  the  Sabbath)  was  a 
day  of  preparation,  and  that  work  had  to  be  performed  for  the 
Sabbath.  R.  Safra  used  to  singe  a  cow's  head  himself  for  the 
Sabbath,  and  Rabha  would  salt  fish  himself.  R.  Huna  would 
light  candles  himself.  R.  Papa  would  prepare  the  wicks  for  the 
lamps.  R.  Hisda  would  cut  herbs  himself.  Rabba  and  R. 
Joseph  would  chop  wood  for  Sabbath.  R.  Zera  would  light  the 
kindling  wood.     R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak  would  shoulder  all  bur- 

*  Rashi  interprets  this  passage  somewhat  differently,  namely  :  R.  Aba  did  not 
hand  the  money  to  the  butchers  immediately  upon  their  entering  the  door,  but  would 
hand  the  meat  to  his  servants  at  the  door,  saying  :  "  Make  haste  and  cook  this  while 
1  go  and  bring  more,"  showing  that  he  went  himself  for  the  meat  and  brought  each 
piece  from  each  butcher  home  separately. 


\ 


252  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

dens  to  be  carried  in  and  out  of  the  house  himself  on  the  eve  of 
Sabbath,  saying:  "  If  R.  Ami  or  R.  Assi  would  come  to  visit 
me,  would  I  not  do  the  same  for  them  ?"  Others  say  that  R, 
Ami  and  Assi  did  this  on  the  eve  of  every  Sabbath,  saying:  "  If 
it  should  happen  that  R.  Johanan  were  to  visit  us,  would  we  not 
do  the  same  for  him  ? " 

Joseph,  who  honored  the  Sabbath,  had  a  rich  Gentile  for  a 
neighbor.  The  astrologers  told  the  Gentile  that  all  his  goods 
and  possessions  would  eventually  be  eaten  up  by  Joseph,  his 
neighbor.  He  went  and  sold  out  all  his  goods,  and  with  the 
proceeds  bought  a  precious  pearl.  This  pearl  he  had  set  in  his 
turban.  While  crossing  a  lake  one  day,  the  wind  blew  off  his 
turban  and  it  fell  into  the  water.  A  fish  swallowed  it.  Subse- 
quently the  fish  was  caught  by  fishermen  late  on  the  eve  of 
Sabbath.  Said  the  fishermen:  "  Who  will  buy  this  so  late  in 
the  evening  ?  "  They  were  told  by  some  people  to  go  to  Joseph, 
who  honored  the  Sabbath,  and  that  he  usually  bought  such  things. 
They  carried  it  to  Joseph,  who  bought  it,  and  upon  opening  the 
fish  he  found  the  pearl,  which  he  sold  for  thirteen  *  boxes  of 
golden  Dinars.  A  certain  old  man  met  this  Joseph,  and  said  to 
him:  "  He  who  lends  to  the  Sabbath  is  repaid  by  the  Sabbath 
itself." 

Rabbi  (Jehudah  Hanassi)  asked  of  R.  Ishmael  the  son  of  R. 
Jose:  "  By  what  acts  did  the  rich  men  of  Palestine,  so  wealthy, 
merit  their  wealth  ?  " 

He  answered:  "  Because  they  gave  tithes,  as  it  is  written 
[Deut.  xiv.  22]  :  '  Thou  shalt  truly  give  tithes,'  "  t  "By  what 
acts  did  the  rich  men  of  Babylon  merit  their  wealth  ?"  asked 
Rabbi  again.  "  Because  they  keep  the  law  honorably,"  was  the 
reply.  "  And  what  about  the  rich  men  of  other  lands  ?  "  "  Be- 
cause they  honor  the  Sabbath,"  as  R.  Hyya  bar  Aba  related: 
"  It  happened  that  I  was  a  guest  in  the  house  of  a  man  in  the 
city  of  Ludkai  and  a  golden  table  was  brought  for  me,  which 
required  sixteen  men  to  carry,  and  sixteen  silver  chains  were  fas- 
tened to  it,  and  bowls,  pitchers,  goblets,  and  glasses  were  hung 
on   those  chains,  and  on  the  table  were  all  kinds  of  food  and 

*  Rashi  explains  that  his  teacher  Levi  taught,  that  the  number  thirteen  was 
usually  used  by  the  sages  for  a  general  sum  and  must  not  be  taken  literally  as  the 
above  thirteen  butchers,  etc. 

f  The  literal  verse  reads  :  "  Asser  teasher,"  which  is  here  applied  in  the  sense, 
that  thou  shalt  give  tithes  in  order  that  thou  mayst  become  rich,  the  word  "osher" 
also  meaning  riches. 


TRACT   SABBATH.  253 

beverages  and  spices,  and  when  the  table  was  set  down  they 
said:  '  Unto  the  Lord  belongeth  the  earth,  with  what  fiUeth  it ' 
[Psalms  xxiv.  i],  and  when  the  table  was  taken  away,  they  said: 
'  The  heavens  are  the  heavens  of  the  Lord ;  but  the  earth  hath 
he  given  unto  the  children  of  men.'  [Psalms  xcv.  16.]  I  said 
to  my  host,  '  My  son,  how  didst  thou  merit  all  this  ? '  Said  he, 
'  I  used  to  be  a  butcher,  and  whenever  I  came  across  a  good 
animal,  I  would  keep  it  for  Sabbath.'  Said  I  to  him:  *  Well  is 
unto  thee,  that  thou  hast  merited  this,  and  praise  be  to  God, 
who  hath  rewarded  thee.'  " 

Said  the  Exilarch  to  R.  Hamnuna :  "  It  is  written  [Isaiah  Iviii. 
13]:  *  The  holy  day  of  the  Lord,  honorable.'  What  does  this 
'  honorable  '  signify  ?  "  R.  Hamnuna  answered  :  "  It  means  the 
Day  of  Atonement,  on  which  day  there  is  no  eating  and  no 
drinking,  and  hence  the  Thora  says,  thou  shalt  honor  it  with 
clean  clothes."  Further,  it  says  [ibid.]  :  "  Thou  shalt  honor  it  " 
(this  evidently  does  not  refer  to  the  Day  of  Atonement,  which 
is  called  honorable,  but  must  again  refer  to  the  Sabbath ;  how, 
then,  should  it  be  honored  ?)  Said  Rabh  :  ' '  Thou  shalt  make  the 
usual  time  of  thy  meals  earlier,"  and  Samuel  said,  "  Thou  shalt 
postpone  the  ordinary  meal-hour. ' '  The  children  of  R.  Papa  bar 
Aba  asked  R.  Papa:  "  How  shall  we,  who  have  meat  and  wine 
every  day,  distinguish  the  Sabbath  day  ?"  He  answered:  "  If 
ye  usually  have  your  meals  at  a  late  hour,  have  them  earlier,  and 
if  at  an  early  hour,  have  them  later." 

R.  Shesheth  (who  was  blind)  in  the  summer  used  to  seat  his 
pupils,  who  came  to  hear  him  lecture  on  Sabbath,  in  a  place 
where  the  sun  shone  earliest,  in  order  that  they  might  become 
warm  and  leave,  and  in  the  winter  used  to  seat  them  where  the 
sun  could  not  reach  them,  that  they  might  become  cold  and  leave 
the  sooner. 

R.  Zera,  when  seeing  his  pupils  standing  in  pairs  and  discuss- 
ing the  Thora  on  the  Sabbath,  used  to  say  to  them:  "  I  pray 
ye,  go  home,  eat,  drink,  and  be  merry.  Do  not  violate  the 
Sabbath !     (It  is  made  for  pleasure  and  not  for  learning.)  " 

Rabha,  according  to  others  R.  Jehoshua  ben  Levi,  said: 
''  Even  a  man  who  prays  singly  on  the  Sabbath  eve  must  recite 
the  prayer  commencing  with  '  Thus  were  finished,'  etc.  [Gen- 
esis ii.  1-3] ;  for  R.  Hamnuna  said,  that  he  who  prays  on  the 
Sabbath  eve  and  recites  that  prayer  is  considered  by  the  verse  as 
being  a  collaborator  in  the  creation  of  the  world." 

R.    Eliezer  said:  "Whence  do  we  know   that   speaking  is 

vol..  II.  — 5 


254  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

equal  to  acting,  as  it  is  written  [Psalms  xxxiii.  6] :  'By  the 
word  of  the  Lord  were  the  heavens  made.'  " 

R.  Hisda  in  the  name  of  Mar  Uqba  said:  "  He  who  on  the 
Sabbath  recites  the  prayer  commencing  with,  '  Thus  were  fin- 
ished,' etc.,  has  the  hands  of  the  two  angels  who  accompany 
each  man  laid  on  his  head,  and  they  say  to  him  [Isaiah  vi.  7] : 
'  And  thy  iniquity  is  departed  and  thy  sin  is  forgiven.'  " 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  R.  Jose  bar  Jehudah  said: 
"  Two  angels  accompany  a  man  on  the  Sabbath  eve  on  his  way 
home  from  the  house  of  prayer;  one  is  a  good  angel  and  the 
other  an  evil  one ;  and  when  the  man  comes  home  and  finds  the 
candles  lit,  the  table  set,  and  his  bed  made  up,  the  good  angel 
says :  *  May  it  be  the  will  of  God  that  the  next  Sabbath  shall 
be  the  same,'  and  the  evil  angel  answers  *  Amen  '  involuntarily. 
If,  however,  the  man  does  not  find  everything  in  order,  the  evil 
angel  says:  '  Mayst  thou  find  it  so  on  the  next  Sabbath  also,' 
and  the  good  angel  answers  against  his  own  will:  '  Amen.'  " 

R.  Elazar  said:  "  A  man  should  set  his  table  on  the  Sabbath 
eve,  although  he  may  not  be  hungry  and  can  eat  not  more  than 
the  size  of  an  olive."  R.  Hanina  said:  "A  man  should  set 
his  table  on  the  eve  following  the  Sabbath,  though  he  may 
not  be  hungry  and  can  eat  but  the  size  of  one  olive.  (This 
is  also  in  honor  of  the  Sabbath  and  is  like  the  accompanying 
of  a  king  at  his  departure.)  Warm  water  at  the  close  of  the 
Sabbath  day  is  wholesome.  Warm  bread  at  that  time  is  also 
wholesome." 

R.  Abuha  used  to  have  a  calf  which  was  the  third  calf  of 
its  mother  (and  hence  the  best)  killed  for  him  at  the  close  of  the 
Sabbath  day,  and  he  ate  only  one  of  the  entrails  of  the  calf. 
When  his  son  Abhimi  grew  up,  he  (Abhimi)  said,  "  Why  kill  a 
whole  calf  for  the  sake  of  one  of  its  entrails  ?  Let  us  leave 
one  of  the  entrails  of  the  calf  killed  for  the  Sabbath  for  father, 
that  he  may  eat  it  at  the  close  of  the  Sabbath."  This  was  done, 
but  a  lion  came  and  killed  the  calf  that  was  spared. 

R.  Jehoshua  ben  Levi  said:  "He  who  answers  'Amen. 
The  Name  of  the  Eternal  be  blessed,'  with  all  his  heart,  has 
any  ill  fate  which  has  been  predestined  for  him  nullified  in 
heaven,  as  it  is  written  [Judges  v.  2]  :  '  When  depravity  had 
broken  out  in  Israel,  then  did  the  people  offer  themselves  will- 
ingly; (therefore)  praise  ye  the  Lord.'  Why  had  depravity 
broken  out  in  Israel?  Because  they  had  not  praised  the  Lord." 
R.  Hyya  bar  Abba  in  the  name  of  R,  Johanan  said:  "  Even  if 


TRACT   SABBATH. 


255 


that  man  have  amongst  his  sins  aught  of  idolatry,  he  is  also 
forgiven," 

Said  Resh  Lakish:  "He  who  answers  'Amen,'  etc.,  with 
all  his  might  has  the  gates  of  Paradise  opened  for  him,  as  it  is 
written  [Isaiah  xxvi.  2]  :  '  Open  ye  the  gates,  that  there  may 
enter  in  the  righteous  nation  that  guardeth  the  truth.'  "  (The 
truth  in  Hebrew  is  called  "  Emunim,"  and  Resh  Lakish  said, 
"  Do  not  read  Emunim  but  Amenim,  the  plural  for  Amen.") 
What  is  Amen  ?  Said  R.  Hanina:  "  Amen  is  the  abbreviation 
for  El  (God),  Melech  (king),  Neamon  (truth)."  (Meaning  that 
by  saying  Amen  a  man  certifies  that  his  Creator  is  the  God  and 
king  of  truth.) 

R.  Jehudah,  the  son  of  R.  Samuel,  in  the  name  of  Rabh  said: 
"  A  fire  seldom  occurs  in  a  place  unless  there  is  a  violation  of 
the  Sabbath,  as  it  is  written  [Jeremiah  xvii.  27] :  '  But  if  ye  will 
not  hearken  unto  me  to  hallow  the  Sabbath  day,  and  not  to  bear 
a  burden,  and  to  enter  in  at  the  gates  of  Jerusalem  on  the  Sab- 
bath day;  then  will  I  kindle  a  fire  in  its  gates,  and  it  shall  devour 
the  palaces  of  Jerusalem,  and  it  shall  not  be  quenched. '  "  What 
does  "  it  shall  not  be  quenched"  signify?  Said  R.  Na'hman 
bar  Itz'hak:  "  The  fire  shall  occur  at  a  time  when  men  are  not 
around,  as  a  rule." 

Abayi  said:  "  Jerusalem  was  destroyed  solely  on  account  of 
the  violation  of  the  Sabbath,  as  it  is  written  [Ezekiel  xxii.  26] : 
*  And  from  (the  violations  of)  my  Sabbaths  do  they  turn  away 
their  eyes,  so  that  I  am  profaned  among  them.'  "  R.  Abuha 
said:  "Jerusalem  was  not  destroyed  until  they  had  abolished 
the  reading  of  the  Shema  in  the  morning  and  in  the  evening, 
as  it  is  written  [Isaiah  v.  I1-13]:  '  Wo  unto  those  that  rise  up 
early  in  the  morning,  that  they  may  run  after  strong  drink,  that 
continue  until  late  in  the  twilight,  till  wine  inflame  them !  And 
there  are  harp  and  psaltery,  tambourine  and  flute,  and  wine,  at 
their  drinking  feasts;  but  the  deeds  of  the  Lord  they  regard 
not,  and  the  works  of  his  hands  they  behold  not.  Therefore  are 
my  people  led  into  exile,  for  want  of  knowledge.'  "  R.  Ham- 
nuna  said:  "Jerusalem  was  not  destroyed  until  the  children 
were  kept  away  from  school,  as  it  is  written  [Jeremiah  vi.  11]: 
'  (I  must)  pour  it  out  over  the  child  in  the  street ' ;  and  it  may 
be  explained  thus:  Why  must  I  pour  it  out  ?  Because  the  child 
is  in  the  street  and  not  at  school." 

Ula  said  :  "  Jerusalem  was  destroyed  because  the  people  were 
devoid    of   shame,    as   it   is   written    [ibid.    15]:    'They  should 


256  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

have  been  ashamed  because  they  committed  an  abomination; 
but  they  neither  felt  the  least  shame,  nor  did  they  know  how  to 
blush;  therefore  shall  they  fall  among  those  that  fall,'  " 

R.  Itz'hak  said:  "  Jerusalem  was  destroyed  only  because  no 
distinction  was  made  between  great  and  small,  as  it  is  written 
[Isaiah  xxiv.  2,  3] :  '  And  it  shall  be  the  same  with  the  people 
as  with  the  priest,  etc.  Empty,  emptied  out  shall  be  the  land.'  " 
R.  Amram,  the  son  of  R.  Simeon  bar  Aba,  in  the  name  of  his 
father,  quoting  R.  Hanina,  said:  "Jerusalem  was  destroyed  only 
because  the  people  did  not  admonish  one  another,  as  it  is  writ- 
ten (Lamentations  i.  6) :  '  Her  princes  have  become  like  harts 
that  have  found  no  pasture.'  As  the  harts  in  a  herd  travel 
head  to  rump,  so  would  the  men  of  Jerusalem  not  dare  face 
each  other  with  admonitions,  but  followed  from  behind  in 
silence." 

R.  Jehudah  said:  "Jerusalem  was  destroyed  because  they 
insulted  men  of  learning,  as  it  is  written  [II  Chronicles  xxxvii. 
16]:  "  But  they  mocked  at  the  messengers  of  God,  and  de- 
spised his  words,  and  scorned  his  prophets,  until  the  fury  of  the 
Lord  arose  against  his  people,  till  there  was  no  remedy."  What 
does  "  till  there  was  no  remedy  "  signify  ?  Said  R.  Jehudah  in 
the  name  of  Rabh :  "  He  who  insults  a  man  of  learning,  can 
find  no  panacea  for  his  affliction." 

R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh  said  again:  "  It  is  written 
[I  Chronicles  xvi.  22] :  *  Touch  not  my  anointed,  and  do  my 
prophets  no  harm.'  "  By  "  touch  not  my  anointed  "  is  meant 
the  children  of  the  school  (for  children  are  usually  anointed), 
and  "  do  my  prophets  no  harm  "  refers  to  the  scholars.* 

Resh  Lakish  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Jehudah  the  Second: 
"  The  world  is  sustained  solely  through  the  exhalation  of  the 
children"  (because  they  are  pure  and  without  sin).  Said  R. 
Papa  to  Abayi :  * '  What  about  thy  and  my  exhalation  ? ' '  Answered 
Abayi:  "The  difference  lies  therein,  that  thou  and  I  might 
have  sinned,  but  children  are  incapable  of  committing  sin." 
Resh  Lakish  said  again  in  the  name  of  the  same  authority: 
"  The  children  should  not  be  withheld  from  attending  school, 
even  while  the  new  temple  shall  be  in  process  of  construction." 

Said  Resh  Lakish  to  R.  Jehudah  the  Second:  "  I  have  heard 

*  Rashi  justifies  this  reference  by  basing  it  on  the  verse  in  Psalms  xc.  12,  which 
he  interprets:  "A  prophet  has  a  heart  endowed  with  wisdom";  although  Isaac 
Leeser  .translates  the  verse,  "  That  we  may  obtain  a  heart  endowed  with  wisdom," 
the  Hebrew  word  Navi  meaning  both  "  prophet  "  and  also  "  we  may  obtain." 


TRACT   SABBATH.  257 

a  tradition  coming  from  thy  parents  which  says,  that  the  city 
which  has  no  school  for  children  shall  be  destroyed ;  but  Rabhina 
says,  the  tradition  is  to  the  effect  that  the  high  court  shall  put 
the  city  under  a  ban  (until  a  school  is  built  for  children)." 

Rabha  said:  Jerusalem  was  destroyed  solely  because  there 
were  no  more  trustworthy  men  there,  as  it  is  written  [Jeremiah 
V.  i]:  "  Roam  about  through  the  streets  of  Jerusalem,  and  see 
now,  and  notice,  and  search  in  its  broad  places,  if  ye  can  find 
one  man,  if  there  be  one  that  executeth  justice,  that  searcheth 
for  truth :  and  I  will  pardon  it."  What  is  meant  by  trustworthy 
men  ?     Such  as  can  be  trusted  in  business. 

MISHNA:  Further,  one  may  save  a  basket  full  of  loaves  (of 
bread),  be  it  even  enough  for  a  hundred  meals,  a  fig-cake,  and  a 
cask  of  wine;  and  one  may  also  call  to  others:  "  Come  ye  and 
save  for  yourselves!"  If  those  who  do  so  understand  their 
advantage,  they  make  a  settlement  with  the  owner  after  the 
Sabbath  is  over.  Where  may  such  articles  be  taken  to  (for 
safety)  ?  To  a  court  that  is  joined  to  the  other  (court  of  the 
house  burning)  by  an  Erub.  Ben  Bathyra  says:  "  Even  to  one 
that  is  not  joined  by  an  Erub." 

There  all  utensils  (dishes)  may  be  brought,  that  are  used  on 
the  same  day;  one  may  (in  the  event  of  a  conflagration  on  the 
Sabbath)  put  on  as  many  clothes  as  possible,  and  may  wrap 
himself  in  whatever  is  possible.  R.  Jose  says:  "  One  may  only 
put  on  eighteen  pieces  of  ordinary  apparel,  but  he  can  come 
back  as  often  as  he  chooses  and  put  on  the  same  quantity  and 
carry  them  off."  One  may  also  call  to  others:  "  Come  ye  and 
save  with  me  (whatever  ye  can) !  " 

GEMARA:  Have  we  not  learned,  in  the  preceding  Mishna 
[page  245],  that  only  (enough  victuals  for)  three  meals  may  be 
saved  (and  in  the  above  Mishna  suflficient  for  a  hundred  meals 
is  permitted)?  Said  R.  Huna:  "This  presents  no  difficulty.  Our 
Mishna  refers  to  one  who  comes  to  save  the  food  with  only  one 
basket  (when  he  may  fill  it  with  any  quantity,  whereas  the  pre- 
ceding Mishna  refers  to  one  who  brings  several  baskets,  and  in 
such  a  case  it  is  not  permitted  to  put  in  each  basket  more  than 
sufficient  for  three  meals)."  But  R.  Aba  bar  Zavda  in  the  name 
of  Rabh  said:  "Both  Mishnas  refer  to  one  who  comes  even 
with  several  baskets,  but  still  no  difificulty  arises.  This  Mishna 
speaks  of  one  who  does  not  carry  the  food  beyond  the  same 
court,  while  the  other  refers  to  one  who  carries  it  into  another 
court." 


258  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

"  A  fig-cake,''  etc.  Why  does  the  Mishna  say,  that  if  those 
who  save  for  themselves  know  their  advantage  they  will  make  a 
settlement  with  the  owner  after  having  saved  the  things  from 
the  conflagration  ?  Are  they  not  entitled  to  it  under  any  circum- 
stances, by  virtue  of  the  owner  having  made  it  public  property 
when  saying,  "  Come  ye  and  save  for  yourselves"  ?  Said  R. 
Hisda:  "  This  refers  to  pious  people  who  would  not  take  advan- 
tage of  a  man  who  is  compelled  to  sacrifice  his  property."  Said 
Rabha:  "Can  they  be  called  pious,  who  accept  remuneration 
for  their  time  on  the  Sabbath  ?  Nay ;  the  Mishna  does  not  refer 
to  pious  men,  but  to  God-fearing  men,  who,  while  they  would  not 
take  anything  not  belonging  to  them,  would  not  care  to  trouble 
themselves  gratuitously.  By  stating,  therefore,  that  those  who 
know  their  advantage  will  settle  accounts  with  the  owner  after- 
wards, the  Mishna  means  to  say  that  their  prudence  consists  in 
their  knowing  that  they  will  not  receive  any  remuneration  for 
their  time  on  Sabbath,  but  will  only  receive  their  own  property 
as  their  due." 

"  Come  ye  and  save  with  me.''  Why  does  the  first  part  of 
the  Mishna  permit  the  saying  of  "  Come  and  save  for  your- 
selves," and  in  the  last  part  the  permission  is  given  to  say: 
"  Come  and  save  with  me"  ?  Because  the  first  part  of  the 
Mishna  refers  to  victuals,  and  a  man  cannot  save  more  than  suflfi- 
cient  for  three  meals,  while  the  last  part  of  the  Mishna  refers  to 
clothing;  and  as  a  man  can  change  his  clothing  as  often  as  he 
pleases,  he  may  call  to  others  to  come  and  help  him  save  what- 
ever is  possible. 

' '  One  may  put  on  as  many  clothes  as  possible. "  The  rabbis 
taught :  One  may  dress  himself,  go  out  and  undress,  come  back 
and  dress  again,  and  so  on  as  often  as  he  chooses.  So  said  R. 
Meir.  R.  Jose,  however,  said,  that  one  may  put  on  only  eigh- 
teen pieces  of  ordinary  apparel.  These  were:  i  and  2.  Macturen 
and  Unqly,  a  mantle  with  a  head-hold;  3.  Ftmda,  pocket  for 
money;  4.  Kalbus,  a  dress  without  sleeves;  5.  Chaluk,  a  kind  of 
shirt ;  6.  Apiliute,  cover  or  overcoat ;  7.  MaoparetJi ;  8  and  9. 
Drawers  and  pantaloons  and  cap  for  the  head;  10  and  11.  Shoes; 
12  and  13.  Socks;  14  and  15.  Pargud,  striped  suit;  16.  Girdle; 
17.    Hat;   18.   Neckties. 

MISHNA:  R.  Simeon,  the  son  of  Nanas,  says:  "  One  may 
spread  a  goat-skin  over  a  chest,  a  box,  or  a  cupboard,  which  has 
caught  fire,  so  that  they  only  become  singed.  One  may  also 
form  a  partition  with  any  utensil  (or  vessel),  be  it  full  of  water 


TRACT   SABBATH.  259 

or  not,  in  order  to  keep  the  fire  from  spreading.  R.  Jose  for- 
bids the  making  of  such  a  partition  with  new  earthenware  vessels 
filled  with  water,  because  such  vessels  cannot  stand  heat,  but 
burst  and  extinguish  the  fire." 

GEMARA:  R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  "  When 
one  side  of  a  garment  has  caught  fire,  the  other  side  may  be  put 
in  water,  and  if  thereby  the  fire  is  extinguished  it  makes  no 
difference."  An  objection  was  made :  We  have  learned  in  a  To- 
sephta,  that  if  a  garment  has  caught  fire  one  may  wrap  it  around 
him,  and  it  makes  no  difference  if  the  fire  is  thereby  extin- 
guished. One  may  also  unroll  the  Sacred  Scrolls,  if  the  covering 
has  caught  fire  on  one  side,  and  it  does  not  matter  if  thus  the 
fire  is  quenched.  (This  Tosephta  then  simply  permits  the  un- 
folding or  the  folding  of  a  garment  that  has  caught  fire,  but  says 
nothing  about  soaking  the  undamaged  part  in  water.)  Rabh 
holds  with  R.  Simeon,  the  son  of  Nanas,  in  the  above  Mishna 
(who  permits  the  prevention  of  the  fire).  R.  Simeon,  however, 
restricts  his  permission  so  that,  while  preventing  the  fire,  it  is  not 
extinguished,  but  simply  singes  the  objects  (when  the  article, 
however,  is  soaked  in  water  the  fire  will  certainly  be  quenched, 
and  did  R.  Simeon  permit  this  also  ?)  Yea,  he  did ;  for  the  last 
part  of  the  Mishna  relates,  that  R.  Jose  forbids  the  making  of  a 
partition  with  new  pottery  filled  with  water,  because  such  vessels 
are  liable  to  burst  and  extinguish  the  fire;  and  if  R.  Jose  forbids 
this,  surely  R.  Simeon  (the  first  Tana)  must  have  permitted  it 
in  the  first  part  of  the  Mishna. 

The  rabbis  taught:  If  a  candle  fall  on  the  table,  the  table 
board  may  be  raised  and  the  candle  dropped  to  the  floor,  and  if 
it  become  extinguished,  it  matters  not.  Another  Boraitha 
taught,  that  if  a  candle  burn  behind  a  door,  the  door  may  be 
opened  and  closed  as  usual,  regardless  of  whether  the  candle  is 
thus  extinguished.  Rabh  scolded  the  one  that  thus  decreed. 
Said  Rabhina  to  R.  A'ha  the  son  of  Rabha,  according  to  others 
R.  A'ha  the  son  of  Rabha  to  R.  Ashi:  "  Why  did  Rabh  scold 
the  one  who  made  that  decree  ?  Shall  we  say  that  it  was 
because  he  holds  with  R.  Jehudah  (who  says  that  an  indirect 
act  is  also  prohibited),  and  the  Boraitha  holds  with  R.  Simeon, 
who  permits  the  performance  of  an  indirect  act ;  is  it  possible 
that  Rabh  will  scold  every  one  who  holds  with  R.  Simeon  ?" 
He  answered:  "  In  this  matter  R.  Simeon  would  also  agree  that 
this  is  prohibited,  as  it  would  be  like  decapitating  a  man  without 
killing  him." 


26o  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

R.  Jehudah  said:  "  One  may  open  a  door  opposite  a  hearth- 
fire."  Abayi  scolded  the  one  that  decreed  thus.  Of  what  cir- 
cumstances do  we  treat  here  ?  If  the  door  is  opened  when  there 
is  an  ordinary  wind  blowing,  what  reason  had  the  one  to  pro- 
hibit it ;  and  if  there  be  an  extraordinary  wind  blowing,  why  did 
the  other  permit  it  ?  The  case  here  treated  of  is  that  of  an 
ordinary  wind,  and  the  one  prohibits  the  door  being  opened  as  a 
precautionary  measure,  lest  this  be  done  when  a  high  wind  is 
blowing,  while  the  other  does  not  regard  a  precautionary  meas- 
ure necessary. 

"  One  may  also  form  a  partition,''  etc.  Shall  we  say  that  the 
rabbis  hold  the  indirect  bringing  about  of  an  extinction  to  be  per- 
missible and  R.  Jose  holds  to  the  contrary?  Have  we  not  heard 
the  case  to  be  the  reverse?  We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha: 
One  may  make  a  partition  with  empty  vessels,  and  with  vessels 
filled  with  water  that  are  not  liable  to  burst,  and  such  are  iron 
vessels.  R.  Jose,  however,  says,  that  the  vessels  made  of  pot- 
tery in  the  villages  of  Shihin  and  Hananiah  are  also  proof  against 
bursting.  Thus  we  see  that  R.  Jose  is  even  more  lenient  than 
the  rabbis  ?  This  presents  no  dif^culty,  for  the  above  Boraitha 
is  altogether  in  accordance  with  R.  Jose;  but  it  is  incomplete, 
and  should  read  thus:  "  One  may  make  a  partition  with  empty 
vessels,  and  with  such  as  are  filled  with  water  but  are  not  liable 
to  burst ;  and  such  vessels  are  iron  vessels  and  vessels  made  of 
pottery  in  the  villages  of  Shihin  and  Hananiah,"  as  R.  Jose  says 
that  the  vessels  made  of  pottery  in  these  villages  are  proof 
against  heat. 

MISHNA:  If  a  non-Israelite  comes  near  to  extinguish  (the 
fire),  one  must  neither  say  to  him:  "  Extinguish  (it),"  nor  "  Do 
not  extinguish  it,"  and  for  the  reason,  that  one  is  not  obliged 
to  make  him  rest  (on  Sabbath).  If  a  minor,  however,  desires  to 
extinguish  the  fire,  one  must  not  allow  him  to  do  so,  because 
one  is  obliged  to  see  that  he  (the  minor)  rests  (on  Sabbath). 

GEMARA :  R.  Ami  said:  "  During  a  conflagration  one  may 
proclaim  :  '  Whoever  will  come  and  extinguish  the  fire,  will  lose 
nothing  by  it.'  " 

The  rabbis  taught :  It  happened  that  a  fire  broke  out  in  the 
court  of  Joseph  ben  Simai  in  the  town  of  Shihin,  and  the  men 
of  the  fortress  of  Sepphoris  came  to  extinguish  the  fire,  because 
Joseph  was  an  ofificial  of  the  government ;  but  he  would  not  allow 
them  to  do  so,  in  honor  of  the  Sabbath.  A  miracle  occurred, 
and  it  commenced  to  rain,  and  the  fire  was  extinguished.     That 


TRACT   SABBATH.  261 

evening  he  sent  to  each  man  in  the  fortress  two  selah  and  to  their 
officer  fifty  selah.  When  the  sages  heard  this,  they  said  :  "  It  was 
not  at  all  necessary  to  do  this,  because  the  Mishna  says,  that 
when  a  Gentile  comes  to  extinguish  a  fire  on  Sabbath,  one  need 
not  tell  him  to  do  it,  or  not  to  do  it." 

''  If  a  minor,  however,  desires  to  extinguish  the  fire, "  etc. 
Could  we  conclude  from  this,  that  if  a  minor  is  detected  eating 
forbidden  food  it  is  the  duty  of  the  court  of  justice  to  prevent 
his  doing  so  (and  we  know  such  is  not  the  case)  ?  Said  R. 
Johanan:  "  Yea;  if  the  minor  does  this  with  his  father's  knowl- 
edge. We  must  say,  then,  that  the  same  case  applies  to  the 
Gentile,  who  does  the  work  with  the  knowledge  of  the  Israelite 
whose  house  is  burning.  Is  this  permitted  ?  Yea,  it  is;  for  the 
Gentile  does  it  of  his  own  volition,  and  it  makes  no  difference 
whether  the  Israelite  knows  it  or  not  (because  he,  the  Gentile, 
knows  he  will  be  rewarded)." 

MISHNA  •.  One  may  cover  the  top  of  a  lamp  with  a  vessel 
in  order  that  the  ceiling  may  not  catch  fire,  and  also  cover  the 
ordure  (of  poultry*)  on  account  of  the  children  (in  the  house). 
(One  may  also  place  a  vessel)  over  a  scorpion  in  order  to  prevent 
him  from  biting.  R.  Jehudah  said:  "  A  case  of  this  kind  hap- 
pened once  in  the  presence  of  R.  Johanan  ben  Zakai  in  Arab, 
and  he  said,  *I  am  not  certain  whether  (the  man)  is  not  culpable 
(and  bound  to  bring  a  sin-offering).'  " 

GEMARA:  R.  Jehudah,  R.  Jeremiah  b.  Aba,  and  R.  Hanon 
b.  Ram  happened  to  be  the  guests  of  Abin  of  Nishikia.  The  two 
former  were  furnished  with  beds,  and  the  last  one  was  not.  At 
the  same  time,  he  noticed  him  teaching  his  son  that  the  ordure 
of  a  child  is  to  be  covered,  in  order  that  the  child  should  not 
touch  it;  and  he  said,  "  Abin  the  fool  is  teaching  foolishness  to 
his  children.  Is  not  the  ordure  of  a  child  useful  for  dogs  ? 
What  can  you  say  ?  It  was  not  prepared  from  yesterday.  But 
this  makes  no  difference ;  for  we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha,  that 
running  rivers  and  springing  wells  are  to  be  considered  as  the 
feet  of  every  man."  And  Abin  asked,  "  How,  then,  shall  we 
teach  ?"  And  Hanon  answered,  "  Over  the  ordure  of  poultry, 
that  the  child  shall  not  touch  it." 

Over  a  scorpion  in  order  to  prevent  hi^n  from  biting. ' '  R. 
Jehoshua  ben  Levi  said:  "All  dangerous  creatures  may  be 
killed  on  Sabbath."     R.  Joseph  raised  an  objection:  "  We  have 

*  According  to  the  explanation  of  the  Gemara.  See  also  translation  of  the 
Mishna  by  De  Sola  and  Raphall. 


262  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

learned  in  a  Boraitha,  that  five  creatures  may  be  killed  on  Sab- 
bath, and  they  are:  the  fly  of  Egypt,  the  wasp  of  Nineveh,  and 
the  serpent  of  Hadaiev,  and  the  snake  of  Palestine,  and  a  mad 
dog  from  any  region."  According  to  whose  opinion  is  this  Bo- 
raitha ?  It  is  not  according  to  the  opinion  of  R.  Jehudah,  who 
holds,  that  the  performance  of  an  act  not  in  itself  necessary 
makes  one  culpable  ?  We  must  say,  then,  that  the  Boraitha 
agrees  with  R.  Simeon.  If  this  is  so,  is  it  allowed  to  kill  only 
these  five,  and  not  others  ?  Said  R.  Jeremiah:  "  Who  can  tell 
us  that  this  Boraitha  is  a  correct  one  ?  It  may  be  erroneous." 
Said  R.  Joseph:  "I  have  studied  the  Boraitha.  The  same 
objection  was  made  before  me,  and  I  defended  it  by  stating,  that 
the  Boraitha  refers  to  the  case  where  the  creatures  pursued  the 
man  in  order  to  harm  him,  and  under  these  circumstances  even 
R.  Jehudah  permits  the  killing  of  these  creatures." 

A  certain  disciple  related  before  Rabha,  the  son  of  R.  Huna, 
quoting  a  Boraitha:  "  One  who  kills  serpents  and  snakes  on  the 
Sabbath  does  not  find  favor  in  the  eyes  of  the  pious."  An- 
swered Rabha:  "  And  these  pious  men  do  not  find  favor  in  the 
eyes  of  our  sages."  Thus  he  differs  with  R.  Huna,  for  it  hap- 
pened that  R.  Huna,  seeing  a  man  kilHng  a  snake  on  Sabbath, 
said  to  him :  Hast  thou  killed  the  last  of  them  (if  thou  hast 
only  killed  one,  of  what  use  is  it  to  violate  the  Sabbath  ?  From 
this  we  see  that  R.  Huna  differs  from  the  opinion  of  his  son.) 

The  rabbis  taught :  If  a  man  met  snakes  on  the  road  and 
killed  them,  it  was  decreed  above  that  he  should  kill  them  (thus 
removing  danger  for  others,  because  a  good  deed  is  performed 
through  a  righteous  man) ;  if,  however,  he  did  not  kill  them,  it 
was  decreed  above  that  he  should  be  killed  by  them  (that  is,  he 
IS  a  sinner  and  deserving  of  death),  but  through  the  mercy  of 
the  Lord  a  miracle  was  performed,  and  he  was  saved.  Said 
Ula,  according  to  others  Rabba  bar  bar  Hana,  in  the  name  of 
R.  Johanan :  "  Only  in  case  the  snakes  prepared  to  strike  at  the 
man,  can  it  be  said  that  it  was  decreed  that  the  man  should  be 
killed." 

R.  Aba  bar  Kahana  said:  "  It  happened  that  a  snake  was 
found  in  the  school-house,  and  a  man  of  the  city  of  Neiety  killed 
it."  Said  Rabbi:  "He  met  his  equal."  The  schoolman 
asked:  "  Did  Rabbi  mean,  that  the  man  was  right  in  his  deed, 
or  on  the  contrary?"  Come  and  hear:  R.  Aba,  the  son  of 
Hyya  b.  Aba,  and  R.  Zera  were  sitting  in  the  hut  of  R.  Janai, 
and  they  resolved  to  ask  R.  Janai  if  one  might  kill  snakes  and 


TRACT   SABBATH.  263 

serpents  on  the  Sabbath.      And  he  answered:  "  If  a  bee  should 
annoy  me,  I  would  kill  it;  a  fortiori,  snakes  and  serpents." 

Aba  the  son  of  Marta,  who  is  Aba  the  son  of  Minyumi,  was 
indebted  in  a  sum  of  money  to  the  Exilarch's  house.  He  was 
brought  there  and  was  worried.  While  standing  in  the  room, 
Aba  spat  on  the  floor.  This  happened  on  the  Sabbath,  and  the 
Exilarch  ordered  his  servants  to  bring  a  dish  and  cover  up  the 
spittle.  Said  Aba  to  him :  "  This  is  not  necessary,  for  R.  Jehu- 
dah  says,  that  one  may  put  his  foot  on  spittle  and  thus  clear  it 
off."  Thereupon  the  Exilarch  remarked:  "  This  proves  to  me 
that  the  man  is  a  young  scholar;  let  him  go  in  peace." 

Aba  bar  Kahana  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Hanina :  "  The  lamps 
of  the  house  of  Rabbi  may  be  handled  on  the  Sabbath."  R. 
Zera  asked  him :  "  Which  lamps  do  you  refer  to,  the  lamps  that 
can  be  handled  with  one  hand,  or  those  that  require  both  hands  ' '  ? 
and  he  answered:  "  The  same  as  can  be  found  in  your  father's 
house  (those  were  small  lamps)."  The  same  Aba  said  in  the 
name  of  the  same  authority,  that  the  carriages  of  the  house  of 
Rabbi  might  also  be  handled  on  the  Sabbath.  R.  Zera  asked  him 
which  he  referred  to,  those  that  one  man  can  pull,  or  those  that 
require  two  men,  and  the  answer  was:  "  The  same  that  your 
father  possesses."  Aba  bar  Kahana  said  again,  that  the  same 
R.  Hanina  permitted  the  house  of  Rabbi  to  drink  wine  that 
was  sealed  with  but  one  seal,  in  the  markets  of  the  heathens, 
and  he  states,  that  he  does  not  know  whether  R.  Hanina  holds 
with  R.  Eliezer  (who  held  that  one  seal  only  was  necessary)  or 
whether  he  permitted  this  out  of  respect  to  the  house  of  the 
Nassi  (for  fear  that  if  he  prohibited  this,  they  would  become 
angry  *). 

MISHNA:  If  a  non-Israelite  lit  a  lamp  on  the  Sabbath,  the 
Israelite  might  make  use  of  the  light.  If  he  (the  non-Israelite) 
did  so  (especially)  for  the  Israelite,  the  latter  must  not  use  it. 
If  the  non-Israelite  filled  up  (a  trough)  with  water,  to  water  his 
(own)  cattle,  the  Israelite  may  water  his  cattle  after  him ;  if  he 
did  so  for  the  Israelite  (especially),  the  latter  must  not  water  his 
cattle  with  it.  If  a  non-Israelite  made  a  stairway  in  order  to 
descend  upon  it  from  a  ship,  the  Israelite  might  descend  after 
him ;  if  he  made  it  (especially)  for  the  Israelite,  the  latter  must 
not  descend.  Once  R.  Gamaliel  and  several  elders  arrived  on  a 
ship  (on  Sabbath)  and  a  non-Israelite  made  a  stairway  upon  which 

*  Rashi  gives  this  a  different  explanation,  but  the  above  seems  correct  to  us. 


264  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

to  descend  (from  the  ship),   whereupon   R.   Gamaliel  and  the 
elders  also  descended. 

GEMARA :  And  it  is  necessary  for  the  Mishna  to  mention 
the  above  cases  separately,  because  if  we  were  taught  only  con- 
cerning a  lamp,  we  would  say,  that  a  lamp  only  may  be  used 
because  a  lamp  will  give  light  for  a  hundred  men  as  well  as  for 
one ;  but  as  for  water,  we  might  say,  that  the  water  should  not 
be  used,  in  precaution  lest  the  non-Israelite  replenish  the  trough 
especially  for  the  Israelite.  For  what  purpose,  however,  is  the 
stairway  mentioned  ?  That  was  only  for  the  purpose  of  relating 
what  happened  to  R.  Gamaliel  and  the  elders. 

■  The  rabbis  taught :  With  grass  which  a  Gentile  mowed  for 
his  own  cattle,  an  Israelite  may  feed  his  cattle,  but  if  the  grass 
was  mowed  especially  for  the  Israelite,  he  may  not.  The  same 
rule  applies  to  water  for  watering  the  cattle.  This  applies  only 
where  the  Gentile  and  the  Israelite  are  not  acquainted;  but  if 
they  are,  it  is  not  allowed,  under  any  circumstances.  This  is 
not  so!  For  R.  Huna  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Hanina,  that  a 
man  may  allow  his  cattle  to  graze  on  the  Sabbath,  but  must  not 
feed  them  on  grass  which  he  designated  previously  for  some 
other  purpose  (it  matters  not  whether  the  grass  is  still  uncut  or 
cut).  (Now,  we  see  that  things  which  have  been  designated  for 
another  purpose  must  not  be  fed  to  cattle  on  the  Sabbath ;  how 
then  is  it  allowed  to  feed  one's  cattle  on  the  Gentile's  grass 
which  was  cut  on  the  Sabbath,  and  surely  designated  for  some 
express  purpose  ?)  This  presents  no  difficulty;  for  the  permis- 
sion to  feed  one's  cattle  on  the  Gentile's  grass  only  holds  good 
if  the  cattle  feed  themselves,  and  the  man  may  stand  by  and 
prevent  them  from  invading  another  pasture  (but  does  not  allow 
the  man  to  feed  them  by  hand). 

It  is  said  above:  "  This  applies  only  where  the  Gentile  and 
the  Israelite  are  not  acquainted,"  etc.  Is  this  so  ?  Did  not  R. 
Gamaliel  descend  on  the  stairway,  although  he  and  the  Gentile 
were  acquainted  ?  Said  Abayi  :  "  The  Gentile  made  the  stair- 
way when  R.  Gamaliel  did  not  see  him."  But  Rabhasaid:  "  It 
may  be  that  the  stairway  was  made  in  the  presence  of  R.  Gama- 
liel, but  this  case  would  be  the  same  as  that  of  a  lamp.  A  lamp 
for  one  is  a  lamp  for  a  hundred." 

An  objection  was  made  to  the  teaching  of  Rabha:  We  have 
learned  in  a  Tosephta:  R.  Gamaliel  said  to  the  elders:  "  As  the 
Gentile  made  the  stairway  while  we  were  not  looking,  we  may 
descend  on  it."      Answered  Rabha:    "  Read  simply,   that    R. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  265 

Gamaliel  said, '  because  the  Gentile  had  already  made  it,  we  may 
use  it.'  " 

Samuel  happened  to  arrive  at  the  house  of  Abin  in  Touron 
on  a  Sabbath.  A  Gentile  came  and  lit  a  candle.  Samuel  turned 
his  face  away  from  the  light ;  but  after  seeing  that  the  Gentile 
brought  a  paper  and  commenced  to  read  by  the  light  of  that 
candle,  he  said:  "  I  see  now  that  the  Gentile  lit  the  candle  for 
his  own  use,"  and  he  then  made  use  of  it  himself. 


CHAPTER    XVII. 

REGULATIONS    CONCERNING    THE    HANDLING    OF    UTENSILS    AND     FUR- 
NITURE   ON    THE    SABBATH. 

MISHNA:  All  utensils  (and  furniture)  which  may  be 
handled  on  the  Sabbath,  their  doors  (lids)  may  be  handled  with 
them,  even  when  their  lids  had  been  removed ;  for  such  lids  can- 
not be  considered  as  house-doors,  which  are  not  intended  to  be 
removed.  One  may  take  a  hammer  on  the  Sabbath  for  the  pur- 
pose of  cracking  nuts,  an  axe  to  chop  fig-cake,  a  hand-saw  to 
saw  cheese,  a  shovel  to  gather  up  dried  figs,  a  fan  and  a  fork  to 
place  a  thing  (food)  before  a  child,  a  spindle  and  a  shuttle  to 
pick  fruit,  a  sewing-needle  to  remove  a  spHnter  (from  the  flesh), 
and  a  packing  needle  to  open  a  door. 

GEMARA:  "All  utensils  which  may  be  haridled  on  the 
Sabbath,  their  doors  {lids)  may  be  handled  with  theju,  even  when 
their  lids  had  been  removed.'"  Removed  when,  on  Sabbath? 
and  if  removed  on  a  week-day  they  certainly  may  be  handled  ? 
Why,  on  the  contrary.  On  Sabbath  the  lids  being  attached  to 
the  utensils,  they  were  intended  for  use  with  the  utensils ;  but 
if  removed  on  week-days,  they  did  not  form  part  of  the  uten- 
sils on  the  Sabbath,  hence  not  intended  for  simultaneous  use, 
and  should  not  be  handled !  Said  Abayi :  The  Mishna  means  to 
say,  that  the  lids  may  be  handled  with  the  utensils  on  the  Sab- 
bath even  if  the  lids  had  been  removed  on  a  week-day. 

The  rabbis  taught:  "  The  doors  (lids)  of  a  drawer,  chest,  or 
cage,  may  be  taken  down  on  the  Sabbath,  but  not  replaced. 
The  door  of  a  chicken-coop  (which  is  built  in  the  ground)  must 
not  be  removed  nor  replaced  on  the  Sabbath."  It  may  be  right 
to  prohibit  the  removing  or  replacing  of  the  door  of  a  chicken- 
coop  (built  in  the  ground),  because  removing  it  would  constitute 
the  act  of  tearing  down,  and  replacing  it  would  constitute  build- 
ing, but  as  for  the  doors  of  a  drawer,  chest,  or  cage,  what  is  the 
opinion  of  the  rabbis  ?  Do  they  hold  that  the  acts  of  building 
and  tearing  down  apply  also  to  utensils  ?  If  so,  why  do  they 
permit  the  removing  of  the  doors  (lids);  and  if  not,  why  do  they 

266 


TRACT    SABBATH.  267 

prohibit  replacing  them?  Said  Rabha:  "The  act  of  building 
does  not  apply  to  utensils,  but  replacing  is  prohibited  more  as  a 
precautionary  measure,  lest  one  drive  the  door  in  with  a  stick 
(and  this  would  constitute  the  act  of  hammering)." 

"  One  may  take  a  hammer,''  etc.  Said  R.  Jehudah:  This 
refers  to  a  hammer  intended  only  for  nut-cracking,  and  such  a 
hammer  may  be  used  to  crack  nuts,  but  a  smith's  hammer  must 
not  be  used  for  that  purpose;  [for  R.  Jehudah  holds,  that  a 
thing  which  is  intended  only  for  an  act  prohibited  on  the  Sab- 
bath, must  not  be  used  even  for  a  permissible  act].  Rabba, 
however,  says,  that  a  smith's  hammer  may  be  used  to  crack  nuts 
[for  he  holds  that  a  thing  which  is  intended  only  for  a  prohibited 
act,  may  be  used  for  a  permissible  act]. 

It  was  taught :  R.  Hyya  bar  Aba  in  the  name  of  R. 
Johanan  said:  "We  have  learned,  that  a  hammer  which  is 
intended  for  hammering  gold  may  also  be  used  for  cracking 
nuts."  R.  Shoman  bar  Aba  said:  "  We  have  learned,  that  the 
hammer  referred  to  is  intended  to  be  used  for  spices." 

The  one  who  teaches  that  a  spice-hammer  may  be  used  cer- 
tainly permits  a  gold-hammer;  but  the  one  permitting  a  gold- 
hammer  to  be  used,  does  not  allow  a  spice-hammer,  because  a 
spice-hammer  must  be  kept  perfectly  clean,  and  is  usually  laid 
away  for  non-use  during  the  Sabbath. 

''A  spindle  and  a  shuttle  to  pick  fruit,''  etc.  The  rabbis 
taught :  A  date  which  was  not  quite  ripe,  and  was  put  in  straw 
which  was  intended  for  use  in  clay-making,  might  be  taken  out. 
providing  it  was  not  completely  covered  by  the  straw,  but 
enough  to  take  hold  of  was  left  uncovered.  The  same  applies 
to  a  cake  which  was  taken  out  of  the  oven  not  quite  done,  and 
was  put  in  glowing  cinders  to  be  cooked ;  but  R.  Eliezer  ben 
Tadai  said,  that  both  the  date  and  the  cake  might  be  taken  out 
even  when  completely  covered,  providing  this  is  done  with  a 
prong,  and  then  the  straw  or  the  ashes  respectively  fall  off  of 
themselves.  Said  R.  Na'hman  :  "  The  Halakha  prevails  accord- 
ing to  R.  Eliezer  ben  Tadai." 

From  this  we  see  that  R.  Na'hman  holds,  that  handling  in 
an  unusual  manner  is  not  considered  handling  at  all ;  but  did  not 
R.  Na'hman  say,  that  if  a  radish  is  deposited  in  earth  with  its 
roots  downwards  and  its  head  upwards  and  protruding  from  the 
earth,  it  may  be  taken  out;  but  if  deposited  head  downwards, 
it  must  not  be  taken  out  (and  thus  we  see  that  R.  Na'hman 
regards  handling  in  an   unusual  manner  the  same  as  handling 


268  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

proper)  ?  The  answer  is,  that  R.  Na'hman  afterward  retracted 
his  decision  concerning  the  radish. 

"  A  seiving-needle  to  re^nove  a  splinter.''  Rabha  the  son  of 
Rabba  sent  a  request  to  R.  Joseph:  "  Let  the  master  teach  us 
the  law  regarding  a  needle,  the  eyelet  or  the  point  of  which  had 
been  broken  off."  R.  Joseph  answered:  "We  have  learned 
this  in  our  Mishna:  'A  sewing-needle  to  remove  a  splinter.' 
What  difference  would  it  make  to  the  splinter  whether  the 
needle  has  an  eyelet  or  not?"  Rabha  objected:  "We  have 
learned,  that  a  needle,  the  eye  or  the  point  of  which  had  been 
broken  off,  is  not  subject  to  defilement."  Said  Abayi :  "  Thou 
confusest  Sabbath  with  defilement  ?  As  for  defilement,  a  vessel 
must  be  complete  in  order  to  be  subject  to  defilement;  but  for 
Sabbath  use,  anything  which  can  be  used  is  in  itself  sufificient, 
and  with  this  needle  I  can  remove  a  splinter." 

R.  Na'hman  forbids  the  straightening  of  the  limbs  of  a  child 
at  birth  on  the  Sabbath,  and  R.  Shesheth  permits  it. 

MISHNA:  The  hollow  olive-cane  is  subject  to  defilement  if 
it  has  a  knot ;  if  not,  it  is  not  subject  to  defilement.  In  any  event, 
it  may  be  handled  on  the  Sabbath. 

R.  Jose*  saith:  "  Any  utensil  may  be  handled  on  the  Sab- 
bath, with  the  exception  of  the  large  wood-saw  and  the  plough- 
share." 

GEMARA:  The  rabbis  taught :  Previously  only  three  uten- 
sils were  permitted  to  be  handled  on  the  Sabbath,  and  they  were : 
a  knife  to  chop  pressed  dates,  a  skimmer,  and  a  small  table- 
knife.  Subsequently  more  was  allowed,  and  then  still  more, 
and  then  more  again,  until  finally  any  utensil  was  allowed  with 
the  exception  of  the  wood-saw  and  the  ploughshare. 

What  is  meant  by  "  subsequently  more  was  allowed,  and  then 
still  more,"  etc.  ?  Said  Rabha:  They  allowed  a  thing  which  was 
intended  for  use  in  a  permissible  act,  whether  it  was  needed  for 
another  purpose,  or  whether  the  room  it  occupied  was  needed ; 
then  still  more  was  allowed,  namely:  to  shift  a  thing  out  of  the 
sunshine  to  a  shady  place ;  then  more  again  was  allowed,  namely : 
a  thing  that  was  intended  for  use  in  a  prohibited  act  {e.g.,  a 
smith's  hammer)  was  permitted  to  be  used  for  another  purpose 
or  when  its  room  was  needed ;  but  it  was  not  permitted  to  be 
moved    from   the   sunshine   into   the   shade,    and   all    this  was 


*  In  the  Mishna  of  Yost  and  De  Sola  and  Raphall,  R.  Jehudah  was  credited  with 
the  saying,  but  in  our  original  K.  Jose  is  named,  as  is  proven  in  Erubhin  35  a. 


TRACT   SABBATH.  269 

allowed  to  be  done  by  only  one  person,  but  not  by  two,  until 
finally  all  utensils  might  be  handled  even  by  two  persons. 

Abayi  raised  an  objection  to  this:  "  We  have  learned,  that  a 
mortar  which  contained  garlic  may  be  handled,  but  if  it  did  not 
contain  garlic  it  must  not  be  handled."  The  answer  was  this:  It 
is  meant,  to  remove  from  the  sunshine  to  the  shade.  R.  Hanina 
said :  This  Mishna  was  taught  in  the  times  of  R.  Nehemiah  ben 
Hahalyah,  as  it  is  written  [Nehemiah  xiii.  15]:  "In  those  days 
I  saw  in  Judah  some  treading  wine-presses  on  the  Sabbath,  and 
bringing  in  sheaves,  etc."  (and  because  in  those  times  there  was 
great  laxity  in  keeping  the  Sabbath,  strict  laws  were  made  as 
a  precaution,  and  even  a  mortar  was  not  allowed  to  be  handled 
unless  it  contained  some  eatables).  Said  R.  Elazar:  The  Mish- 
nas  relating  to  the  pieces  of  wood  for  the  showbreads  in  Tract 
Menahoth,  the  sticks  used  by  the  priests  for  the  Passover  sacrifice 
in  the  Tract  Pesachim,  the  bolts  in  the  Tract  Kelim,  and  the 
above  Mishna  relating  to  the  mortar  (all  of  which  prohibit  the 
handling  of  such  things  on  Sabbath)  were  all  taught  before  it 
was  allowed  to  handle  all  vessels. 

MISHNA:  The  utensils  may  also  be  handled  with  intent  to 
use  them  or  without  such  intent.  R.  Nehemiah  saith:  "  They 
may  be  handled  only  if  intended  for  use." 

GEMARA:  What  is  meant  by  "  with  intent  to  use  them," 
etc.?  Said  Rabha:  "  '  With  intent  to  use  them  '  means  to  use 
a  thing  which  was  intended  for  use  in  a  permissible  act,  whether 
it  was  needed  for  its  intended  use,  or  whether  the  room  it  occu- 
pied was  needed ;  and  *  without  such  intent '  means  even  to  shift 
a  thing  from  the  sunshine  into  the  shade,  and  a  thing  that  was 
intended  for  use  in  a  prohibited  act  was  permitted  to  be  used 
for  its  intended  use  or  when  its  room  was  needed,  but  it  was  not 
permitted  to  move  it  from  the  sunshine  into  the  shade.  Now 
R.  Nehemiah  comes  to  say,  that  even  if  a  thing  was  intended  for 
a  permissible  act,  it  may  be  used  only  for  its  intended  use  and 
if  the  room  occupied  by  it  were  needed,  but  it  was  not  permitted 
to  shift  it  from  the  sunshine  into  the  shade. 

R.  Sapa,  R.  Aha  b.  Huna,  and  R.  Huna  bar  Hanina  were 
sitting  together.  The  latter  asked  R.  Sapa,  according  to  Rabha, 
who  explains  Nehemiah's  teaching  (that  even  a  permissible  thing 
must  not  be  removed  for  the  purpose  of  occupying  its  place): 
"  How  can  we  remove  dishes  after  eating?"  Said  R.  Sapa: 
"  It  is  equal  to  a  dirty  thing  (standing  on  a  clean  place),  which 
may  be  removed  at  any  time." 

VOL.    II.— 6 


270  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

R.  Marl  bar  Rahel  had  several  leather  bolsters  that  lay  in 
the  sun  (on  a  Sabbath).  He  came  to  Rabha  and  asked  him  if  he 
might  move  them.  Rabha  told  him  it  was  allowed.  Said  R. 
Mari  again:  "  I  have  other  bolsters  besides  these."  Answered 
Rabha:  "  This  makes  no  difference.  Thou  mightst  need  those 
too  if  guests  should  call."  Said  R.  Mari  again:  "  I  have  suf- 
ficient for  guests  also."  Said  Rabha  to  him:  "  This  proves  to 
me,  then,  that  thou  art  of  the  opinion  of  Rabba,  who  prohibits 
the  moving  of  things  from  the  sunshine  into  the  shade  on  Sab- 
bath. Hence  everybody  else  may  do  this,  but  thou  must 
not." 

Said  R.  Aba  in  the  name  of  R.  Hyya  bar  Ashi,  quoting 
Rabh :  Whisks  may  be  handled  on  the  Sabbath  to  sweep  the 
tables,  but  the  brooms  made  of  date-palms  (which  are  only 
intended  for  floor-sweeping)  must  not  be  used  for  sweeping  the 
tables.     This  was  also  stated  by  R.  Elazar. 

MISHNA:  Of  all  utensils  which  may  be  handled  on  the 
Sabbath,  fragments  may  also  be  handled,  but  it  must  be  with  a 
purpose,  viz.  :  the  pieces  of  a  kneading-trough  to  cover  the 
bunghole  of  a  cask,  the  pieces  of  a  glass  to  cover  the  mouth  of 
a  pitcher.  R.  Jehudah  says:  "  They  must  be  fit  for  the  same 
use  (as  the  whole  utensil),  viz.  :  the  parts  of  a  kneading-trough 
to  hold  a  brew,  and  the  pieces  of  a  glass  to  hold  oil." 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel: 
"  The  first  Tana  of  the  Mishna  and  R.  Jehudah  differ  only  as  to 
fragments  which  were  broken  off  on  the  Sabbath ;  for  the  former 
holds  that  the  fragment  is  part  and  parcel  of  the  utensil,  and  fit 
for  the  same  use,  while  R.  Jehudah  holds,  that  the  fragment  is 
a  newly  created  thing;  but  if  the  fragments  were  broken  off 
before  the  Sabbath  set  in,  all  agree  that  they  may  be  handled ; 
because  they  were  prepared  for  use  while  it  was  yet  (week)  day." 

We  have  learned,  in  one  Boraitha,  that  fire  may  be  made  with 
utensils,  but  not  with  fragments ;  and  in  another  Boraitha  we  have 
learned,  that  as  we  may  make  fire  with  utensils,  so  we  may  also 
use  fragments  for  the  same  purpose.  In  a  third  Boraitha,  how- 
ever, we  were  taught,  that  we  must  not  make  fire  with  either 
utensils  or  fragments.  We  must  say,  then,  that  the  first  Bora- 
itha is  in  accordance  with  the  opinion  of  R.  Jehudah  (who  holds 
to  the  theory  of  "  Muktza  "  and  Noled  (a  newly  ceated  thing), 
the  second  Boraitha  is  in  accordance  with  the  opinion  of  R. 
Simeon  (who  holds  to  neither  of  the  two  theories),  and  the  third 
Boraitha  is  in  accordance  with   R.    Nehemiah  (who  holds  that 


TRACT   SABBATH.  271 

every  utensil  must  be  used  for  its  particular  purpose  and  not  for 
other  purposes). 

R.  Na'hman  said:  "  Bricks  left  over  from  a  building  may  be 
handled,  because  they  can  be  used  as  seats;  but  if  the  bricks 
were  piled  up  one  on  top  of  the  other,  they  were  evidently  des- 
ignated for  building,  and  must  not  be  handled."  R.  Na'hman 
said  in  the  name  of  Samuel :  A  fragment  of  a  piece  of  pottery 
may  be  handled  in  private  ground,  but  not  in  unclaimed  ground 
(because  in  private  ground  other  vessels  can  generally  be  found 
and  the  fragment  may  be  used  as  a  lid  or  cover,  but  in  unclaimed 
ground  there  are  no  other  vessels  and  the  fragment  cannot  be 
used  in  that  manner);  but  R.  Na'hman  himself  declares,  that 
the  fragment  may  be  handled  in  unclaimed  ground  also  (because 
in  unclaimed  ground  there  may  also  be  some  things  which  can 
be  covered),  but  not  in  public  ground ;  and  Rabha,  however, 
says,  it  may  be  handled  even  in  public  ground  (because  having 
been  once  regarded  as  a  utensil  in  private  ground  it  remains  such 
everywhere). 

This  theory  of  Rabha's  is  borne  out  by  his  action ;  for  it 
happened  that  he  was  walking  on  the  street  Ritka  in  the  city  of 
Mehuzza  on  a  Sabbath,  when  his  shoe  became  soiled  with  dirt. 
His  servant  came  and  cleaned  it  off  with  a  fragment  of  a  piece  of 
pottery.  The  rabbis  who  went  behind  him  scolded  his  servant 
for  this  act,  whereupon  he  (Rabha)  remarked :  "  It  is  not  enough 
that  they  have  not  learned  (what  is  permissible  and  what  is  not), 
but  they  also  want  to  teach  others.  If  this  fragment  were  in 
private  ground,  it  would  have  been  a  useful  article  because  a 
vessel  could  be  covered  with  it,  and  here  in  public  ground  it  is 
useful  to  me." 

R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said:  "The  bung-head 
of  a  broken  barrel  may  be  handled  on  Sabbath."  We  have  also 
learned  this  in  the  following  Boraitha:  "  The  bung-head  and  the 
pieces  of  a  broken  barrel  may  be  handled  on  Sabbath,  but  it  is 
not  allowed  to  break  off  a  piece  of  the  fragments  and  cover  a 
vessel  with  it  or  put  it  under  the  legs  of  a  bedstead."  If  the 
bung-head  and  pieces,  however,  were  thrown  away  among  the 
garbage  before  the  Sabbath,  they  must  not  be  handled  at  all. 

R.  Hamdura  said*in  the  name  of  Samuel:  "  The  waste  of  a 
mat  may  be  used  on  the  Sabbath."  Why  so  ?  For  what  pur- 
pose can  it  be  used  ?  Said  Rabha:  "  Bar  Hamdura  explained 
this  to  me  as  follows :  What  is  a  mat  used  for  ?  To  prevent  the 
dust  from  settling  upon  an  object,  and  the  waste  can  also  be  used 


272  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

for  covering  up  dirt. ' '  R.  Zera  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh  :  ' '  Rem- 
nants of  silken  togas  must  not  be  handled  on  the  Sabbath." 
Said  Abayi:  "  This  is  said  of  remnants  that  measure  less  than 
three  fingers  square  and  are  of  no  value  to  either  rich  or  poor." 

The  rabbis  taught :  Fragments  of  an  old  oven  are  equal  to 
any  other  vessels  that  may  be  handled  on  Sabbath,  So  said  R. 
Meir;  but  R.  Jehudah  said  they  may  not  be  handled.  R. 
Jose  testified  in  the  name  of  R.  Eliezer  ben  Jacob,  that  frag- 
ments of  an  oven  may  be  handled  on  the  Sabbath  and  the  cov-. 
ers  of  an  oven  may  be  handled  even  if  their  handles  are  broken 
off.  Said  Rabhina:  "  According  to  whose  opinion  do  we  handle 
to-day  the  covers  of  the  ovens  used  in  the  city  of  Mahassia, 
which  have  no  handles  ?  It  must  be  according  to  the  opinion  of 
R.  Eliezer  ben  Jacob." 

MISHNA:  One  may  dip  water  with  a  hollow  pumpkin  to 
which  a  stone  is  fastened,  providing  the  stone  will  not  fall  off; 
otherwise,  one  must  not  dip  water  with  it.  One  may  dip  water 
with  a  jug  to  which  a  vine  branch  is  fastened. 

"  For  a  window-blind,"  says  R.  Eliezer,  "  a  thing  may  only 
then  be  put  up,  if  it  be  fastened  and  hang  down;  otherwise,  it 
must  not."     The  sages  say  it  may  be  put  up  in  any  manner. 

GEMARA:  We  have  learned  in  another  Mishna:  "If  a 
stone  lie  at  the  opening  of  a  barrel,  the  barrel  may  be  bent 
over,  so  that  the  stone  fall  down."  Said  Rabba  in  the  name  of 
R.  Ami,  quoting  R.  Johanan :  "The  case  applies  only  when 
the  stone  lying  at  the  opening  of  the  barrel  was  left  there  unin- 
tentionally; but  if  placed  there  on  purpose,  the  barrel  becomes 
a  base  for  a  prohibited  thing  (and  must  not  be  moved),"  R. 
Joseph  in  the  name  of  R.  Assi,  quoting  R.  Johanan,  said,  on 
the  contrary:  "  If  the  stone  was  left  there  unintentionally  the 
barrel  must  be  bent  over,  so  that  the  stone  fall  down ;  but  if 
placed  there  intentionally,  it  serves  as  a  lid  to  the  barrel,  and 
maybe  removed."  On  what  points  do  R.  Ami  and  R.  Assi 
differ  ?  One  holds,  that  an  act  must  be  accomplished  in  order  to 
be  an  act,  while  the  other  holds  the  intention  to  be  equivalent  to 
the  deed,  and  their  respective  theories  are  borne  out  by  their 
opinions  which  follow: 

For  when  R.  Dimi,  and  according  to  others  R.  Zera,  came 
from  Palestine,  he  related  in  the  name  of  R.  Hanina :  It  hap- 
pened that  Rabbi  once  went  to  a  certain  place  on  a  Friday,  and 
finding  a  pile  of  stones  said  to  his  disciples:  "  Go  and  have  it  in 
your  minds  that  we  intend  to  sit  on  these  to-morrow."      Thus 


TRACT    SABBATH.  273 

Rabbi  did  not  order  them  to  act,  but  merely  to  think.  R, 
Johanan,  however,  said,  that  Rabbi  ordered  his  disciples  to  act. 
And  what,  according  to  R.  Johanan's  opinion,  were  the  disciples 
to  do  ?  R.  Ami  said,  that  Rabbi  ordered  them  to  place  the 
stones  in  position  for  them  to  sit  on,  but  R.  Assi  said,  that 
Rabbi  ordered  them  not  only  to  place  the  stones  in  position,  but 
also  to  clean  them  (because,  in  the  latter's  opinion,  changing  the 
position  of  an  object  does  not  constitute  an  actual  deed). 

It  was  taught :  R.  Jose  b.  Saul  said  it  was  not  stones  but  a 
pile  of  building  wood.  R.  Johanan  b.  Saul,  however,  said  it 
was  not  building  wood  but  poles  with  which  the  depth  of  the 
water  is  sounded. 

One  may  dip  water  with  a  hollow  pumpkin  to  which  a  vine- 
branch  is  fastened."  If  it  is  fastened  one  may,  and  if  not,  one 
may  not.  Shall  we  assume  that  our  Mishna  is  not  in  accordance 
with  the  opinion  of  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel?  as  we  have  learned 
in  a  Boraitha :  Branches  of  a  tree  which  were  intended  for  kind- 
ling, if  subsequently  used  for  sitting  purposes,  must  be  tied 
together,  but  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel  said,  they  need  not  be 
tied  together.*  Said  R.  Ashi :  It  may  be  said,  that  this  Mishna 
is  not  at  variance  with  the  opinion  of  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel, 
but  is  merely  a  precautionary  measure,  for  fear  that  a  branch, 
being  brittle,  ^night  be  broken  by  the  man  if  not  tied  together. 

''For  a  window-blind,''  etc.  Rabba  bar  bar  Hana  in  the 
name  of  R.  Johanan  said :  All  agree  that  it  is  not  permitted  to 
put  up  even  a  temporary  tent  t  to  begin  with  on  a  biblical  festi- 
val, and  decidedly  not  on  the  Sabbath,  but  as  for  adding  (that 
is,  if  part  of  the  blind  was  already  up)  a  blind  to  a  temporary 
tent  that  had  already  been  put  up,  R.  Eliezer  said,  that  it  is  not 
permissible  on  a  festival  and  much  less  so  on  the  Sabbath,  and 
the  sages  declare,  that  it  is  permitted  on  the  Sabbath  and  so 
much  the  more  on  a  festival. 

The  sages  say  it  may  be  put  up  in  any  mamter. ' '  What  is 
meant  by  "  in  any  manner  "  ?  Said  R.  Aba  in  the  name  of  R. 
Kahana:  "  By  that  is  meant,  that  it  makes  no  difference  whether 
the  blind  was  fastened  or  not,  providing  it  was  prepared  for  its 
purpose  since   the  day  before."      Said    R.    Jeremiah    to    him: 

Compare  page  90,  in  this  tract. 

f  By  a  temporary  tent,  says  Rashi,  is  meant  principally  a  sheet  put  up  on  four 
poles  to  serve  as  a  roof,  but  screens  on  the  sides  are  not  considered  a  tent.  The 
putting  up  of  a  window-blind  in  a  building,  however,  is  regarded  by  R.  Eliezer  as  ao 
addition  to  the  building. 


274  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

"  Why  wouldst  thou  assume  that  the  sages  would  be  more 
lenient  in  this  matter  ?  Say  rather  that  they  meant  to  state, 
that  it  made  no  difference  whether  the  blind  hung  down  or  not, 
providing  it  had  been  previously  fastened."  R.  Aba  answered: 
"  Because  I  hold  with  the  Tana  of  the  following  Tosephta:  A 
stick,  prepared  by  the  master  of  a  house  for  the  opening  and 
locking  of  a  door,  may  be  used  on  Sabbath,  providing  it  was 
fastened  and  hung  to  the  door;  otherwise,  it  must  not  be  used. 
R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel,  however,  declared,  that  as  long  as  it 
was  prepared  for  that  purpose,  it  was  of  no  consequence  whether 
it  was  fastened  and  hung  to  the  door."  (Thus  it  may  be  seen 
that  R.  Aba  held  with  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel.) 

R.  Jehudah  bar  Silas  in  the  name  of  R.  Assi,  quoting  R. 
Johanan,  said:  "The  Halakha  according  to  R.  Simeon  ben 
Gamaliel  prevails."  Did  R.  Johanan  say  this  in  reality  ?  Have 
we  not  learned  in  a  Mishna,  that  all  covers  of  vessels  having 
handles  attached  may  be  handled  on  Sabbath?  Referring  to  this, 
R.  Jehudah  b.  Shila  in  the  name  of  R.  Assi,  quoting  R.  Johanan, 
said,  that  such  would  be  the  case  only  if  the  covers  could  be 
made  use  of  as  independent  vessels.  (How,  then,  can  R. 
Johanan  hold  with  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel,  who  says,  that  the 
stick  which  was  not  fastened  to  the  door  may  be  used  on  Sab- 
bath, surely  it  is  not  an  independent  vessel  ?)  Shall  we  assume, 
that  R.  Johanan  holds  with  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel  only  in  the 
case  where  the  stick  could  also  be  used  for  other  purposes  and 
thus  could  be  called  an  independent  vessel?  Then  how  can  it  be 
said  that  R.  Johanan  holds  with  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel,  for 
the  latter  does  not  require  the  stick  to  be  an  independent  vessel, 
as  we  have  learned  above  in  the  matter  of  the  branches  (see 
page  273),  where  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel  declares,  that  they 
need  not  be  tied  together?  R.  Johanan  is  in  accordance  with 
him  only  in  the  matter  of  the  stick  being  prepared  for  its  par- 
ticular purpose  without  being  fastened  to  the  door,  but  disa- 
grees with  him  as  regards  an  independent  vessel. 

R.  Itz'hak  of  Naph'ha*  proclaimed  at  the  door  of  the 
Exij^rch's  house,  that  the  Halakha  according  to  R.  Eliezer  pre- 
vailed. R.  Amram  raised  an  objection:  "  We  have  learned  in 
the  last  Mishna  of  this  Tract  as  follows :  '  Thence  we  learn  that 
it  is  permitted  to  put  up  a  window-blind,  to  measure  and  to  tie 
on  the  Sabbath.'  "     (How,  then,  could  R.  Itz'hak  say,  that  the 

*  See  note  to  page  96,  in  this  tract. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  275 

Halakha  according  to  R.  EHezer  prevailed  ?)  Said  Abayi  to 
him:  Upon  what  is  thy  objection  concerning  R.  Itz'hak  based  ? 
The  Mishna  just  mentioned  gives  the  opinion  of  the  sages  only, 
v.ho  are  at  variance  with  R.  Eliezer  in  our  Mishna,  and  thou 
mightst  say,  that  because  no  contention  is  mentioned,  the 
Halakha  according  to  the  sages  prevails;  then  thou  knowest  of 
another  Mishna  (in  Erubin),  concerning  the  hinge  of  a  cupboard 
door,  no  name  is  mentioned,  and  still  the  Mishna  appears  to  be 
in  accordance  with  the  opinion  of  R.  Eliezer  only  (thus  R. 
Itz'hak  can  accept  R.  Eliezer's  opinion).  Saith  the  Gemara: 
(Although  Abayi  justified  R.  Itz'hak)  an  act  of  the  sages  (as  is 
related  in  the  last-mentioned  Mishna)  is  sufficiently  decisive  to 
establish  the  Halakha. 

MISHNA:  All  lids  of  utensils  maybe  removed  (on  the  Sab- 
bath), provided  they  have  handles.  Said  R.  Jose :  What  does 
this  apply  to  ?  To  lids  of  vessels  fastened  in  the  ground,  but 
lids  of  vessels  in  general  may  be  removed  at  all  events. 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Jehudah  bar  Shila  in  the  name  of 
R.  Assi,  quoting  R.  Johanan :  "  The  lids  of  utensils  may  be 
handled  only  if  they  can  be  made  use  of  for  other  purposes  as 
independent  vessels."  Saith  the  Gemara:  "All  agree,  that  cov- 
ers of  utensils  (fixtures)  fixed  in  the  ground  must  be  handled 
only  if  they  have  handles  attached,  and  lids  of  other  utensils  not 
fixed  in  the  ground  may  be  handled  even  if  they  have  no 
handles,  but  the  point  of  the  divergent  opinions  is  as  regards 
the  covers  of  ovens,  the  one  side  contending,  that  ovens  must 
be  regarded  as  fixtures  in  the  ground  and  the  other  side  con- 
tending that  they  are  ordinary  utensils." 


CHAPTER    XVIII. 

REGULATIONS  REGARDING  THE  CLEARING  OFF  OF  REQUIRED  SPACE, 
THE  ASSISTANCE  TO  BE  GIVEN  CATTLE  WHEN  GIVING  BIRTH  TO 
THEIR    YOUNG    AND    TO    WOMEN    ABOUT    TO    BE    CONFINED. 

MISHNA:  One  may  even  clear  off  four  or  five  chests  of 
straw  or  grain,  in  order  to  provide  room  for  guests,  and  to 
remove  obstacles  to  instruction;  but  one  must  not  clear  out  a 
whole  barn.  Further,  one  may  clear  ofT:  heave-offerings,  grain 
(of  which  it  is  not  certain  that  the  tithes  have  been  set  apart), 
first  tithes  of  which  the  heave-offering  has  been  taken  off,  sec- 
ond tithes  and  consecrated  things  which  have  been  redeemed, 
and  dried  broad-beans,  which  serve  the  poor  (others  say,  the 
goats)  for  food.  But  one  must  not  clear  off  mixed  grain  (of 
which  tithes  have  not  yet  been  separated),  nor  first  tithes  of 
which  the  heave-offering  had  not  yet  been  taken  off,  nor  second 
tithes  nor  consecrated  things  which  had  not  yet  been  redeemed, 
nor  arum  (wake-robin)  nor  mustard.  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel 
permits  arum  (wake-robin)  to  be  cleared  off,  because  it  serves 
the  (house)  raven  for  food. 

Bundles  of  straw,  bundles  of  stalks,  and  bundles  of  reeds 
may  be  handled,  provided  they  are  designed  for  cattle-fodder, 
otherwise  they  must  not  be  handled. 

GEMARA:  The  Mishna  says,  "  four  or  five  chests,"  Why 
say  four  or  five  ?  If  five  may  be  cleared  off,  surely  four  may! 
Said  Samuel:  This  is  said  only  as  a  customary  saying;  but  in 
reality  it  means  to  say  that  any  number  may  be  cleared  off;  but 
by  saying  "  one  must  not  clear  off  a  whole  barn,"  the  Mishna 
means  to  state,  that  all  the  straw  should  not  be  removed  for  fear 
lest  pits  be  noticed  in  the  ground,  and  the  man  might  fill  them 
up.  Even  if  the  whole  barn  be  full  and  as  yet  untouched,  one 
may  commence  to  remove  as  much  as  is  necessary,  and  the 
Mishna  is  in  accordance  with  the  opinion  of  R.  Simeon,  who 
disregards  the  law  of  Muktza. 

The  rabbis  taught:  One  may  not  commence  on  a  full  barn, 
but   one   may  remove    enough,  when   entering,  with  his  feet,  to 

276 


TRACT    SABBATH.  277 

provide  an  entrance,  and  when  going  out  to  make  a  way  of 
egress. 

The  rabbis  taught :  A  sheaf  of  grain,  if  commenced  prior  to 
the  Sabbath,  may  be  used  on  the  Sabbath;  but  if  not,  it  must 
not  be  used  on  Sabbath,  so  saith  R.  A'ha,  but  R.  Simeon  permits 
this  to  be  done.  How  large  should  the  sheaf  be  ?  We  have 
learned  in  a  Boraitha  that  it  should  measure  one  Lethach.* 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question  (not  having  heard 
Samuel's  explanation):  "  How  is  the  term  '  four  or  five  chests  ' 
to  be  understood  ?  Should  a  man  clear  off  only  four  or  five 
chests,  even  if  that  be  not  room  enough  for  his  guests;  or  should 
he  do  so  in  proportion  to  the  number  of  his  guests  ?  If  according 
to  the  number  of  his  guests,  does  it  mean  to  say,  that  one  man 
should  clear  off  sufficient  for  all,  or  every  man  for  himself?" 
Come  and  hear:  Rabba  told  in  the  name  of  R.  Hyya:  It  once 
happened  that  Rabbi  went  out  on  a  Sabbath  to  a  certain  place, 
and  saw  that  the  place  assigned  to  him  for  lecturing  was  too 
small;  so  he  went  out  into  the  field,  and  found  the  whole  field 
full  of  sheaves.  He  cleared  off  the  field,  and  provided  sufficient 
room."  Thence  we  see  that  he  did  so  in  proportion  to  the 
number  of  his  guests;  but  this  narration  decides  only  one  part 
of  the  schoolmen's  question,  viz.  :  the  one  relating  to  the  num- 
ber of  sheaves  to  be  cleared  off,  but  not  the  one  relating  to 
whether  one  man  may  clear  off  sufficient  for  all,  or  every  man 
for  himself.  Come  and  hear:  "  Rabbi  cleared  off  the  field,"  etc. 
(that  is,  one  man  for  all).  And  what  think  you,  that  Rabbi  did 
this  himself  ?  he  certainly  must  have  ordered  this  to  be  done,  so  it 
is  not  known  whether  one  man  did  it,  or  each  man  for  himself. 

"  For  guests,''  etc.  R.  Johanan  said:  "  The  reward  for  hos- 
pitality is  equal  to  that  for  visiting  the  house  of  learning,  for 
the  Mishna  saith  for  guests  and  for  obstacles  to  instruction,  thus 
putting  the  two  causes  on  a  par."  Said  R.  Dimi:  "  Hospital- 
ity is  even  a  greater  virtue,  for  it  is  given  the  precedence  over 
instruction." 

R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  Hospitality  is  even 
a  greater  merit  than  receiving  the  Shekhina,  as  it  is  written 
[Genesis  xviii.  3] :  "  And  he  said,  My  Lord,  if  now  I  have  found 
favor  in  thy  eyes,  pass  not  away,"  etc.  (showing  that  Abraham 
let  the  Lord  wait  while  he  went  to  receive  his  guests).  Said 
R.  Elazar:    Come  and  see  how  the  custom  of  the  Holy  One, 

*A  measure  of  grain  spoken  of  in  Hosea  iii.  2,  and  presumably  a  half  of  a  Kur. 


278  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

blessed  be  He,  is  unlike  that  of  human  beings.  An  insignificant 
man  cannot  say  to  a  great  man:  "  Stay  here  until  I  come  back 
again,"  whereas  to  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  Abraham  said 
as  mentioned  above. 

Said  R.  Jehudah  bar  Shila  in  the  name  of  R.  Assi,  quoting 
R.  Johanan  :  "  There  are  six  things,  the  interest  on  which  a  man 
consumes  on  earth,  while  the  principal  is  given  him  in  the  world 
to  come.  They  are:  Hospitality,  visiting  the  sick,  contempla- 
tion before  prayer,  attending  the  house  of  learning,  educating 
children  in  the  Law,  and  charity  in  judging  others."  Is  this  so  ? 
Have  we  not  learned  in  a  Mishna  :  These  are  the  things  the  inter- 
est of  which  a  man  consumes  on  earth  and  the  principal  of 
which  is  given  him  in  the  world  to  come  ?  "  Honoring  father 
and  mother,  doing  favors  to  neighbors,  peace-making  among 
men,  and,  above  all,  the  study  of  the  Law."  Now,  if  the  Mishna 
says  "  these  are  the  things,"  it  means  no  others!  Nay;  the 
six  things  previously  mentioned  are  included  in  those  subse- 
quently enumerated  (hospitality  and  visiting  the  sick  are  included 
in  doing  favors  to  neighbors;  contemplation  before  prayer  is  a 
favor  to  one's  self,  as  it  is  written  [Proverbs  xi.  17]  :  "  The  man 
of  kindness  doth  good  to  his  own  soul  "  ;  attending  the  house  of 
learning  and  educating  children  in  the  Law  is  included  in  the 
study  of  the  Law;  charity  in  judging  others  is  included  in  peace- 
making among  men,  and  R.  Johanan  does  not  dispute  the 
Mishna,  but  merely  expounds  it). 

The  rabbis  taught :  One  who  exercises  charity  in  judging 
others  is  charitably  dealt  with  when  judged  above.  It  once 
happened  that  a  man  came  from  upper  Galilee  and  hired  out  to 
a  master  in  southern  Palestine  for  three  years.  On  the  last  eve 
of  the  Day  of  Atonement  (when  his  term  was  up)  he  asked  his 
master  for  his  wages,  so  that  he  could  return  to  his  wife  and 
children.  The  master  replied  that  he  had  no  money.  Said  the 
man:  "  Then  give  me  my  money's  worth  in  grain."  And  the 
master  answered:  "I  have  it  not."  Said  the  man  again : 
"  Give  me  my  money's  worth  in  land,"  and  again  the  master 
replied:  "  I  have  it  not."  "  Then  give  me  my  money's  worth 
in  cattle."  "  I  have  it  not,"  was  the  reply.  "  I  will  take  my 
money's  worth  in  bolsters  or  bed-clothes,"  pleaded  the  man, 
but  the  answer  was  still  the  same.  The  poor  man  shouldered 
his  bundle  and  sorrowfully  went  away.  After  the  holidays  the 
master  took  the  hired  man's  wages  and,  besides,  three  asses;  one 
laden  with  victuals,  the  second  with  beverages,  and  the  third 


TRACT   SABBATH.  279 

with  spices,  and  went  to  his  hired  man's  house  in  Galilee. 
After  having  partaken  of  a  meal  together,  the  master  paid  him 
his  wages,  and  asked  him:  "  When  I  told  thee  that  I  had  not 
the  money  to  pay  thee  thy  wages,  what  didst  thou  suspect  me 
of  ?  "  The  man  answered  :  "  I  thought  that  perhaps  thou  hadst 
come  across  a  bargain  and  hadst  paid  out  all  thy  ready  money." 
"  And  when  thou  askedst  me  for  cattle  and  I  refused  thee,  what 
didst  thou  think  then  ? "  "I  thought  that  thou  hadst  hired  out 
thy  cattle  on  some  other  farm,  and  thou  couldst  not  give  me  any 
at  the  time."  "  And  when  thou  askedst  me  for  grain  and  I 
refused  ?"  "I  thought  perhaps  thou  hadst  not  yet  paid  thy 
tithes  and  hence  thou  couldst  not  give  me  any."  "  And  when 
I  refused  thee  land  ?"  "I  thought  perhaps  thou  hadst  rented 
it  out."  "  And  when  I  refused  thee  bed-clothes  ?"  "  Then  I 
thought  that  thou  hadst  devoted  all  thy  possessions  in  honor  of 
the  Lord."  "  I  swear  to  thee,  then,  that  such  was  really  the 
case.  I  had  made  a  vow  to  give  away  all  my  possessions  for 
charitable  purposes,  because  my  son  Hurkenes  did  not  want  to 
study  the  Law.  Afterwards,  when  I  came  to  my  comrades  in 
the  South  they  released  me  from  my  vow,  and  as  thou  didst 
judge  me  in  kindness,  so  may  God  judge  thee  in  kindness." 

The  rabbis  taught :  A  pious  man  once  ransomed  a  Jewish 
maiden  from  captivity.  When  they  came  to  a  lodging-place  at 
night,  he  laid  her  down  at  his  feet.  On  the  morrow  he  bathed, 
and  then  went  out  to  teach  his  disciples.  During  the  lesson,  he 
asked  his  disciples:  "  When  I  laid  the  damsel  down  at  my  feet 
last  night,  what  did  you  suspect  me  of  ?  "  And  they  answered : 
"  Perhaps  there  may  be  one  among  us  who  has  not  yet  been 
tried  and  thou  couldst  not  trust  him,  so  thou  laidst  her  near 
thee."  "  And  when  I  went  in  the  morning  and  bathed,  what  did 
you  suspect  ?"  "  Perhaps,  on  account  of  the  hardships  on  the 
way,  thy  seed  of  copulation  ran  out  from  thee  and  thou  wert 
compelled  to  bathe."  "  By  the  Lord,"  said  the  master,  "  so  it 
was;  and  as  ye  have  judged  me  in  kindness,  so  may  the  Lord 
judge  you  in  kindness." 

The  rabbis  taught :  It  happened  that  the  sages  had  business 
with  a  Roman  matron  to  whom  all  the  great  men  of  Rome  came 
for  advice,  and  they  could  not  decide  who  should  go  to  her. 
Finally  R.  Jehoshua  volunteered  to  go,  and  so  he  and  his  disci- 
ples went  to  her.  Four  ells  from  the  door  of  her  house,  R. 
Jehoshua  removed  his  phylacteries  and  went  in,  locking  the  door 
behind  him.      When  he  came  back  he  bathed,  and  then  went 


28o  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

back  and  taught  his  disciples.  During  the  lesson  he  asked: 
"When  I  removed  my  phylacteries,  what  did  ye  suspect?" 
And  they  answered:  "  The  phylacteries  are  holy,  and  thou  didst 
not  wish  to  bring  them  into  a  profane  place."  "  And  when  I 
locked  the  door  behind  me,  what  did  ye  suspect?"  "We 
thought  perhaps  thou  hadst  a  secret  political  affair  to  transact 
and  didst  not  wish  us  to  enter."  "  And  when  I  came  out  and 
bathed,  what  did  you  suspect?"  And  they  replied:  "We 
thought  perhaps  some  of  the  matron's  spittle  had  accidentally 
dropped  on  thy  garments  and  thou  hadst  to  bathe."  "  By  the 
Lord,"  said  R.  Jehoshua,  "so  it  happened;  and  as  ye  judged 
me  in  kindness,  so  may  the  Lord  also  judge  you  in  kindness." 

"  Further,  one  may  clear  off  heave-offerings,''  etc.  Is  this  not 
self-evident  ?  It  might  be  assumed  that  the  heave-offerings 
being  in  possession  of  a  plebeian  who  is  not  allowed  to  partake 
of  them,  they  must  not  be  handled;  but  the  Mishna  comes  to 
teach  us,  that  because  a  priest  is  allowed  to  eat  them,  they  may 
be  handled  by  everybody.* 

''And  dried  broad-beans.''  The  rabbis  taught:  Hatzav  (a 
certain  plant  the  roots  of  which  grow  deep  into  the  ground  but 
do  not  spread)  may  be  handled  on  the  Sabbath,  because  it  is 
food  for  deer.  Mustard  may  be  handled,  because  it  is  food  for 
doves.  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel  said  that  pieces  of  glass  may 
be  handled,  because  ostriches  eat  them.  Said  R.  Nathan:  "  In 
this  case  twigs  may  be  handled,  because  they  serve  elephants  for 
food."  What  did  R.  Simeon  answer  R.  Nathan  ?  Ostriches 
are  more  frequently  owned  by  men  than  elephants.  Said 
Ameimar:  "  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel  means  to  say,  that  only 
one  who  possesses  ostriches  may  handle  pieces  of  glass  ?  "  Said 
R.  Ashi  to  Ameimar:  "  If  this  is  so,  what  did  R.  Nathan  ques- 
tion ?  If  one  possesses  elephants,  he  may  surely  handle  twigs. 
So  R.  Nathan  means  to  say,  that  because  twigs  serve  as  food  for 
elephants,  anybody  may  handle  them ;  and  the  same  applies  to 
pieces  of  glass,  because  they  serve  ostriches  for  food,  everybody 
may  handle  them  (on  the  Sabbath)." 

"  Bundles  of  straw,"  etc.  The  rabbis  taught:  "  Bundles  of 
straw,  bundles  of  stalks,  and  bundles  of  reeds  may  be  handled, 
provided  they  are  designed  for  cattle-fodder;  otherwise,  they 
must  not  be  handled."     R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel  said:  "  If  the 

*  The  discussions  concerning  the  mixed  grain  and  all  the  other  subjects  enumer- 
ated  in  the  above  Mishna  appear  again  in  Tract  Berachoth,  where  we  shall  render 
them  in  the  course  of  our  work. 


TRACT   SABBATH.  281 

bundles  can  be  lifted  with  one  hand  they  may  be  handled,  but  if 
not  they  must  not  be  handled." 

Bundles  of  satureia,  abrotanum,  and  thyme,  if  prepared  for 
fuel,  must  not  be  used  on  Sabbath,  but  if  prepared  for  cattle- 
food  may  be  used.  Grain  from  an  ear  (of  wheat,  etc.)  may  be 
taken  by  hand  only,  but  not  with  a  vessel.  One  may  even  take 
a  few  grains  from  growing  ears  with  his  fingers,  and  eat  them,  but 
must  not  take  them  with  a  vessel,  so  saith  R.  Jehudah;  but  the 
sages  say,  that  one  may  do  this  with  his  fingers,  but  not  with 
both  hands,  as  usually  done  on  week-days.  The  same  ordinance 
holds  good  for  any  other  spices. 

It  was  taught :  Salt  meat  may  be  handled  on  Sabbath,  but 
fresh  meat  must  not  be  handled,  according  to  R.  Hisda;  but 
R.  Huna  permits  this. 

The  rabbis  taught :  Salt  fish  may  be  handled,  but  not  stale 
unsalted  fish,  and  meat  may  be  handled,  be  it  fresh  or  salt. 

The  rabbis  taught :  Bones  may  be  handled,  because  dogs  eat 
them ;  putrid  meat  may  be  handled,  because  beasts  of  prey  eat 
it.  Uncovered  water*  may  be  handled,  because  cats  drink  it. 
R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel,  however,  said,  that  all  these  things 
should  not  be  kept  in  the  house  even  on  week-days,  because  they 
are  dangerous. 

MISHNA:  One  may  set  a  basket  on  end  for  chickens,  in 
order  that  they  may  climb  up  or  down  upon  it.  A  runaway  hen 
may  be  chased  until  she  goes  back  again.  One  may  lead  about 
calves  or  young  asses  to  exercise  them.  A  woman  may  lead  her 
son  about  to  give  him  exercise.  R.  Jehudah  says:  "When 
(may  she  do)  this  ?  If  the  child  lifts  one  foot  and  sets  down  the 
other;  but  if  it  trails  (its  leg)  behind,  she  must  not." 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  "  If  a 
cow  fall  into  a  lake,  it  is  allowed  to  throw  into  the  lake  bolsters, 
bundles,  vessels,  etc.,  in  order  to  give  the  cow  a  foothold  and 
enable  her  to  get  out."  An  objection  was  made:  We  have 
learned  in  a  Boraitha:  "  If  a  cow  fall  into  a  lake,  food  may  be 
brought  to  her  in  order  that  she  may  not  starve  to  death."  So 
it  refers  only  to  food,  but  nothing  is  said  in  reference  to  bolsters, 
etc.  This  presents  no  difificulty.  Where  food  can  be  brought 
it  may  be  done,  but  when  the  cow  cannot  be  reached,  bolsters, 
etc.,  may  be  brought.     But  a  vessel  that  is  prepared  for  other 


*  Water  was  never  kept  uncovered  in  the  Orient  for  fear  of  snakes,  and  any 
water  that  was  found  uncovered  was  immediately  thrown  out. 


282  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

purposes  is  thereby  destroyed  ?  That  is  simply  a  rabbinical 
ordinance,  but  pity  for  creatures  is  a  Mosaic  law  and  has  prece- 
dence. 

"A  runaway  hen  may  be  chased,''  etc.  The  hen  may  be 
chased,  but  not  led.  This  is  a  similar  teaching  to  that  of  an- 
other Boraitha,  wherein  we  have  learned,  that  all  animals  and 
birds  may  be  led  about  in  private  ground  with  the  exception  of 
a  hen.  Why  not  a  hen.  Said  Abayi:  "  Because  a  hen,  when 
led,  will  not  walk,  but  will  jump  and  fly,  and  the  man  leading 
her  will  be  forced  to  carry  her. ' ' 

MISHNA:  On  a  feast-day  one  must  not  deliver  cattle, 
about  to  give  birth,  of  their  young,  but  may  be  of  assistance  to 
them  in  any  other  manner.  One  may  give  a  woman  (about  to 
give  birth  to  a  child)  all  assistance  possible,  even  call  a  midwife 
from  a  distance ;  one  may  violate  the  Sabbath  on  her  account  and 
tie  the  navel-string.  R.  Jose  says:  One  may  also  cut  the  string. 
Lastly,  one  may  accomplish  anything  necessary  for  the  circum- 
cision on  the  Sabbath. 

GEMARA:  What  is  meant  by  "  being  of  assistance  "?  Said 
R.  Jehudah:  "  To  hold  up  the  young,  that  it  may  not  fall,"  and 
R.  Na'hman  said:  "To  pull  out  the  young  by  pressing  the 
sides."  R.  Jehudah's  explanation  is  supported  by  the  following 
Boraitha:  "  How  is  an  animal  assisted  in  giving  birth  to  her 
young  ?  By  holding  up  the  young,  blowing  air  into  its  nos- 
trils, and  leading  it  to  its  mother's  breast,  so  that  it  may  suck." 

R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel  said:  "  When  a  clean  animal  (one 
that  may  be  eaten)  gave  birth  to  her  young  on  a  festival  and 
would  not  take  to  it,  we  would  coerce  her  into  taking  to  her  off- 
spring." How  would  this  be  done?  Said  Abayi:  "They 
would  bring  a  handful  of  salt,  lay  it  in  the  mother's  womb,  and 
the  pain  that  would  be  caused  thereby  would  remind  the  mother 
of  her  young,  and  she  would  immediately  take  to  them,  and 
they  would  pour  the  water  discharged  by  the  mother  on  the 
young,  so  that  the  mother  would  scent  it  and  seek  her  young. 
This  was  done,  however,  only  with  a  clean  animal,  but  not  with 
an  unclean  animal.  Why  so  ?  Because  usually  an  unclean  ani- 
mal will  not  cast  off  her  young,  and  should  she  do  so,  she  will 
never  take  to  them  again." 

One  may  give  a  woman  {about  to  give  birth  to  a  child)  all 
assistance  possible.''  Let  us  see!  The  Mishna  says,  that  one 
may  call  a  midwife  even  from  a  distance,  and  then,  that  one 
may  violate  the  Sabbath  on  her  account.      What  is  the  object  in 


TRACT    SABBATH.  283 

particularizing  what  may  be  done  ?  The  Mishna  means  to  tell 
us,  what  the  rabbis  taught,  viz.  :  "If  a  woman  lying  in  is  in 
need  of  a  light,  another  woman  may  light  a  candle  for  her;  and 
if  she  needs  oil,  the  waitress  may  bring  her  oil  through  public 
ground  in  her  hands;  should  that  not  be  sufficient  she  may  bring 
it  in  her  hair,  and  if  that  does  not  suffice  she  may  bring  it  in  a 
vessel." 

The  master  said:  "If  a  woman  lying  in  is  in  need  of  a 
candle,  another  woman  may  light  it  for  her."  Is  this  not  self- 
evident  ?  He  means  to  tell  us,  that  even  if  the  woman  lying  in 
be  blind,  and  one  might  say,  that  being  blind  she  needs  no 
candle,  hence  it  should  not  be  lit ;  the  candle  should  be  lit  for 
her  at  all  events,  for  she  may  need  a  thing  that  others  could  not 
see  without  a  light,  while,  by  aid  of  the  light,  they  would  find 
it  and  hand  it  to  her. 

Further,  it  says,  that  a  woman  may  bring  her  oil  in  her  hair. 
This  would  be  worse  still,  for  the  hair  would  have  to  be  wrung, 
and  that  would  make  the  woman  (who  brought  the  oil)  guilty  of 
wringing  (on  Sabbath).  Rabba  and  R.  Joseph  both  said,  that 
wringing  hair  does  not  constitute  wringing  within  the  meaning 
of  the  law.  R.  Ashi  said:  "  Even  if  wringing  the  hair  would 
constitute  wringing  within  the  meaning  of  the  law,  the  woman 
should  bring  the  oil  in  a  vessel  which  should  be  placed  on  the 
hair  (head) ;  for  any  work  which  must  of  a  necessity  be  performed 
on  a  Sabbath,  should  be  performed  in  as  far  different  a  manner 
from  that  done  on  a  week-day  as  possible." 

R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  "As  long  as  the 
womb  of  a  woman  lying  in  is  still  open,  whether  she  says  she 
must  have  it  done  or  not,  the  Sabbath  may  be  violated  for 
her.  As  soon,  however,  as  the  womb  is  closed,  the  Sabbath 
may  be  violated  only  if  shfe  says  she  must  have  it  done ;  other- 
wise, it  must  not  be  violated,  so  taught  Mar  Zutra. "  R.  Ashi, 
however,  taught  in  the  name  of  the  preceding  authority,  that  as 
soon  as  the  womb  is  closed,  even  if  the  w^oman  says  she  must 
have  it  done,  the  Sabbath  must  not  be  violated  on  her  account. 

Said  Rabhina  to  Mareimar:  "  Mar  Zutra  is  more  lenient  in 
his  teaching,  and  R.  Ashi  the  stricter;  according  to  whom  does 
the  Halakha  prevail?"  Answered  Mareimar:  "The  Halakha 
according  to  Mar  Zutra  prevails,  for  it  is  the  general  rule,  that 
wherever  human  lives  are  concerned,  the  more  lenient  teaching 
is  always  accepted  as  final." 

At  what  time  is  the  womb  considered  to  be  open  ?     Abayi 


284  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

said:  "  From  the  time  the  woman  commences  to  give  birth." 
R.  Huna  the  son  of  R.  Jehoshua  said:  "  From  the  time  blood 
commences  to  flow  "  ;  and  others  say,  from  the  time  that  she 
becomes  helpless  and  her  attendants  lay  her  on  the  bed. 

How  long  is  the  womb  considered  to  be  open  ?  Abayi  said, 
for  three  days  after  birth,  and  Rabha  in  the  name  of  R.  Jehu- 
dah  said,  for  seven  days,  and  others  say  for  thirty  days.  The 
scholars  of  Neherdai  divide  the  time  of  a  woman  lying  in  into 
three  periods  of  three,  seven,  and  thirty  days  each.  During 
the  first  period,  whether  the  woman  says  she  must  have  it  done 
or  whether  she  says  it  need  not  be  done,  the  Sabbath  may  be 
violated  for  her.  During  the  second  period,  if  she  says  it  must 
be  done,  the  Sabbath  may  be  violated ;  but  if  she  says  it  need 
not  be  done,  it  must  not  be  violated  ;  and  during  the  third  period, 
even  if  she  says  she  must  have  it  done,  the  Sabbath  must  not 
be  violated  by  Israelites,  but  it  may  be  done  by  Gentiles.  This 
is  according  to  R.  Ula  the  son  of  R.  Ilai,  who  says,  that  everj^- 
thing  which  must  be  done  for  a  sick  person  on  the  Sabbath 
should  be  done  by  Gentiles,  and  also  according  to  R.  Hamnuna, 
w^ho  said,  that  all  things  which  are  to  be  done  for  a  person  who 
is  not  dangerously  ill,  should  be  ordered  done  by  a  Gentile.  As 
it  happened  with  the  daughter  of  R.  Hisda  (the  wife  of  Rabba), 
who  took  a  bath  in  her  husband's  absence,  before  the  thirty 
days  were  up,  and  caught  cold,  and  friends  were  compelled  to 
bring  her,  still  lying  in  bed,  to  Rabba  in  Pumbaditha. 

Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  "  A  woman  lying 
in  should  be  given  thirty  days."  For  what  law  should  she  be 
given  thirty  days  ?  The  men  of  Neherdai  said,  for  bathing 
(that  is,  she  should  not  bathe  for  thirty  days,  in  order  that  she 
may  not  catch  cold).  Said  Rabha:  This  rule  applies  to  women 
whose  husbands  are  not  at  hom.e,  for  when  the  husband  is  at 
home,  he  can  take  care  of  his  wife  and  prevent  any  bad  conse- 
quences. 

R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said  again :  One  may 
kindle  a  fire  for  a  woman  lying  in,  on  the  Sabbath,  and  not  only 
for  a  woman  lying  in,  but  also  for  a  sick  person ;  not  only  in  the 
winter  but  also  in  the  summer-time,  as  R.  Hyya  bar  Abhin  said 
in  the  name  of  Samuel,  that  one,  who  was  bled  and  caught  cold, 
may  have  a  fire  made  for  him  on  Sabbath  not  only  in  the  winter, 
but  also  in  the  summer-time.  Samuel  once  was  bled  and  caught 
cold,  so  a  chair  made  of  elm-wood  was  chopped  up  and  a  fire 
made    for   him   (on    Sabbath).     The    same    thing   happened    to 


TRACT   SABBATH.  285 

R,  Jehudah ;  so  a  table  of  cedar- wood  was  chopped  up  and  a  fire 
made  for  him.  Rabba  had  the  same  experience  and  a  stool 
was  used  to  make  a  fire,  and  when  told  by  Abayi  that  he  was 
guilty  of  destroying  a  useful  article  said:  "  My  personal  wel- 
fare is  dearer  to  me  than  the  article." 

Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  "  A  man  should  sell 
even  the  roof  of  his  house  and  buy  shoes  for  himself  if  in  need 
of  them ;  but  if  he  had  recently  been  bled  and  feels  hungry,  he 
should  sell  even  these  shoes  and  buy  food  with  the  proceeds." 
What  kind  of  food  should  he  purchase  ?  Rabh  said  meat,  and 
Samuel,  wine.  Rabh  said  meat,  as  being  a  substitute  for  flesh 
lost  through  bleeding,  and  Samuel  said  (red)  wine,  as  a  substi- 
tute for  (red)  blood. 

When  Samuel  had  himself  bled,  a  dish  made  of  milt  was 
prepared  for  him,  and  R.  Johanan  would  drink  wine  until  it 
could  be  smelt  through  his  ears.  R.  Na'hman  would  drink  wine 
until  his  spleen  would  float  in  wine.  R.  Joseph  would  drink 
wine  until  his  veins  would  swell  so  that  the  lancet  would  be 
forced  out,  and  Rabha  would  drink  only  wine  that  was  three 
years  old. 

Said  R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak  to  his  disciples:  I  beg  of  you, 
that  on  the  day  on  which  you  have  yourselves  bled,  you  should 
go  home  and  say  that  Na'hman  will  come  to  visit  you.  (In  con- 
sequence a  good  meal  and  wine  will  be  prepared,  and  you  can 
partake  of  it.)  Deceit  is  not  permitted  under  any  circumstances, 
but  those  mentioned  as  follows: 

One  who  is  bled,  and  has  not  the  money  to  buy  wine,  should 
take  a  mutilated  Zuz  and  go  to  seven  wine-dealers.  When  ask- 
ing for  wine  he  will  be  given  some  to  taste,  and  when  offering 
his  money,  it  will  be  rejected.  He  will  then  proceed  to  another 
dealer,  and  keep  on  until  he  will  have  drunk  a  quarter  of  a  lug. 
One  who  cannot  even  do  this,  should  eat  at  least  seven  black 
dates  and  should  put  oil  on  his  temples,  then  lie  down  in  the  sun 
and  go  to  sleep. 

Abhlat  (a  Persian  oflficial)  found  Samuel  sleeping  in  the  sun 
and  said  to  him:  "Thou  leader  of  Jews!  Can  a  good  thing 
emanate  from  a  bad  one?"  Samuel  answered:  "This  is  my 
bleeding-day."  In  reality  this  was  not  so,  but  there  are  days 
when  sleeping  in  the  sun  is  healthful ;  for  instance,  on  the  day 
when  the  Tamuz  (July)  equinox  falls,  but  Samuel,  who  was  a 
physician,  would  not  tell  this  to  Abhlat. 

Rabh  and  Samuel  both   said:  "  The  man  who  eats  a  light 

VOL.  II.  — 7 


286  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

meal  on  the  day  when  he  is  bled,  has  light  earnings  decreed  for 
him  in  heaven  for  the  following  year,  because  if  he  himself  has 
no  pity  for  his  own  body,  he  is  not  worthy  of  being  pitied  by 
the  heavenly  host."  The  same  two  authorities  also  said,  that 
one  who  was  bled  should  not  sit  where  the  wind  blows;  for  it 
may  be  that  the  surgeon  who  bled  him  allowed  too  much  blood 
to  escape,  and  the  wind  might  force  still  more  blood  from  him, 
and  thus  become  dangerous.  Samuel  was  always  bled  in  a 
house  the  walls  of  which  were  of  seven  bricks'  thickness,  and 
at  one  time  it  happened  that  he  felt  weak ;  he  looked  up,  and 
noticed  that  a  brick  was  missing  from  the  wall. 

Rabh  and  Samuel  also  said,  that  a  man  who  was  bled  should 
not  go  out  into  the  street  without  having  partaken  of  some- 
thing. If  he  does  and  meets  a  corpse,  his  face  turns  yellow, 
and  if  he  should  happen  to  meet  a  murderer  he  will  die  himself, 
and  if  he  meets  a  pig  he  will  become  scabby.  They  also  said, 
that  after  bleeding  a  man  should  not  rise  immediately,  but 
should  rest  a  while  and  then  get  up ;  for  the  master  said,  that 
five  things  are  more  conducive  to  death  than  to  life.  They  are : 
Eating  and  arising  immediately,  drinking  and  arising,  sleeping 
and  arising,  being  bled  and  arising,  and  having  sexual  inter- 
course and  arising  immediately  afterwards. 

Samuel  said:  "A  young  man  should  be  bled  every  thirty 
days  until  he  is  forty  years  of  age.  From  forty  to  sixty  he 
should  be  bled  every  two  months,  and  after  sixty  he  should  be 
bled  every  three  or  four  months." 

Samuel  said  again :  The  fourth  day  of  the  week,  if  falling 
on  the  fourth,  fourteenth,  or  twenty-fourth  day  of  the  month, 
or  if  it  is  a  Wednesday  after  which  there  are  less  than  four  days 
to  the  end  of  the  month,  is  a  dangerous  day  for  bleeding.  Bleed- 
ing on  the  first  and  second  of  every  month  produces  weakness, 
and  on  the  third  day  it  is  dangerous.  Bleeding  on  the  eve  of 
any  biblical  festival  produces  weakness,  and  on  the  eve  of  Pen- 
tecost it  is  dangerous,  in  consequence  of  which  the  rabbis  insti- 
tuted the  precautionary  measure,  that  no  man  should  be  bled  on 
the  eve  of  a  festival,  for  fear  that  he  might  have  it  done  on  the 
eve  of  Pentecost. 

Again  Samuel  said  :  "  One  who  had  eaten  heartily  of  wheaten 
food  is  not  wholly  benefited  by  being  bled,  but  is  simply  eased 
for  the  time  being."  This  means  to  say,  then,  that  one  who  has 
a  heavy  feeling  can  ease  himself  temporarily  by  being  bled  after 
a  meal,  but  is  not  permanently  benefited  thereby.     After  being 


TRACT   SABBATH.  287 

bled  one  may  drink  immediately,  but  should  not  eat  until  the 
time  in  which  he  could  walk  half  a  mile  had  elapsed. 

(On  a  day  when  nothing  profitable  had  been  performed)  Rabh 
used  to  proclaim  (the  following  simile):  If  one  bled  a  hundred 
persons,  he  earned  a  Zuz  for  each ;  if  he  cut  the  hair  of  a  hun- 
dred persons,  he  earned  a  Zuz  for  each ;  but  if  he  trimmed  the 
mustaches  of  a  hundred  men,  he  labored  in  vain.*  (There  was 
no  charge  made  for  trimming  mustaches  when  done  in  conjunc- 
tion with  hair-cutting  or  bleeding.)  Said  R.  Joseph  :  We  learned 
at  the  college  of  R.  Huna,  that  a  day  on  which  the  disciples  did 
not  study  was  called  a  mustache-day,  and  I  did  not  understand 
the  meaning  of  the  term ;  but  now  I  can  see  the  significance 
of  the  expression,  for  it  means  to  say  that  the  day  was  lost. 

"And  tie  the  navel-string.''  The  rabbis  taught:  "One 
may  tie  the  navel-string,"  and  R.  Jose  said:  "  One  may  cut  it 
also  on  the  Sabbath  and  deposit  the  afterbirth,  which  is  sup- 
posed to  be  a  remedy  to  keep  the  child  warm."  R.  Simeon  ben 
Gamaliel  said:  "  Daughters  of  kings  would  deposit  the  after- 
birth in  a  bowl  of  oil  and  rich  men's  daughters  would  deposit  it 
in  carded  wool.  Poor  people  would  deposit  it  in  feathers." 
Said  R.  Na'hman  in  the  name  of  Rabba  bar  Abuha,  quoting 
Rabh:  "  The  Halakha  according  to  R.  Jose  prevails." 

R.  Na'hman  said  again,  quoting  the  same  authorities:  "  The 
rabbis  agree  with  R.  Jose,  that  when  two  children  were  born, 
both  attached  to  one  navel-string,  the  latter  may  be  cut,  because 
otherwise  it  would  be  dangerous."  He  also  said  again,  in  the 
name  of  the  same  authorities:  All  that  is  contained  in  the  ser- 
mon of  Ezekiel  may  be  done  for  a  woman  lying  in  on  Sabbath, 
as  it  is  written  [Ezekiel  xvi.  4] :  "  And  as  for  thy  birth,  on  the 
day  thou  wast  born  thy  navel  was  not  cut,  nor  wast  thou  washed 
in  water  to  be  cleansed ;  and  thou  wast  not  rubbed  with  salt, 
nor  wrapped  in  swaddling  clothes."  "  And  as  for  thy  birth," 
from  this  we  may  infer,  that  one  may  assist  in  the  birth  of  a 
child  on  Sabbath.  "  Thy  navel  was  not  cut,"  from  this  we  infer, 
that  the  navel  may  be  cut  on  Sabbath.  "  Nor  wast  thou  washed 
in  water  to  be  cleansed."  This  teaches  us  that  the  child  may 
be  washed  on  Sabbath.  "  Thou  wast  not  rubbed  with  salt." 
From  this  we  know,  that  a  child  may  be  rubbed  with  salt  on 
Sabbath.  "  Nor  wrapped  in  swaddling  clothes."  This  teaches 
us,  that  we  may  wrap  a  child  in  clothes  on  the  Sabbath. 

*  This  explanation  is  the  one  given  by  the  commentary  of  Tosphath,  which  seems 
to  us  to  be  more  to  the  point  than  the  one  given  by  Rashi. 


CHAPTER   XIX. 

REGULATIONS     ORDAINED    BY    R.    ELIEZER    CONCERNING    CIRCUMCISION 

ON    THE    SABBATH. 

MISHNA:  R.  EHezer  saith :  If  the  knife  used  for  circum- 
cision was  not  brought  on  the  day  preceding  the  Sabbath,  one  is 
to  bring  it  publicly  on  the  Sabbath ;  in  times  of  danger  (during 
persecutions)  one  may  conceal  it  (about  the  person)  before  wit- 
nesses. Further,  R.  Eliezer  saith :  One  may  even  cut  wood  to 
be  burnt  into  charcoal,  in  order  to  forge  an  iron  instrument 
(knife  for  circumcision).  The  following  rule  was  laid  down  by 
R.  Aqiba:  All  work  (necessary  in  aid  of  circumcision)  which 
could  have  been  performed  on  the  day  before  (Sabbath)  does  not 
supersede  (the  observance  of)  the  Sabbath,  but  such  work  as 
could  not  have  been  performed  on  the  day  before,  does  supersede 
(the  observance  of)  the  Sabbath. 

GEMARA:  A  question  was  propounded  by  the  schoolmen: 
"  What  does  R.  Eliezer  mean  by  saying,  *  one  is  to  bring  it 
publicly  on  the  Sabbath  '?  Doe  she  mean  to  say,  that  the  man 
thereby  demonstrates  how  dear  a  commandment  (of  the  Lord)  is 
to  him,  that  he  is  ready  to  violate  the  Sabbath  for  its  sake,  or  is 
it  rather,  because  the  man  would  be  suspected  of  carrying  a 
prohibited  thing  on  the  Sabbath,  if  he  did  so  surreptitiously  ?" 
What  difference  does  it  make  what  R.  Eliezer  meant  ?  The  dif- 
ference is  this:  "  If  the  man  does  it  in  order  to  allay  suspicion, 
it  would  be  sufificient  to  have  two  witnesses  see  him  conceal  the 
knife  about  his  person  and  then  carry  it  even  in  times  of  peace ; 
but  if  the  man  does  it  in  order  to  demonstrate  his  love  of  God's 
commandments,  he  must  carry  it  publicly  even  if  he  have  two 
witnesses."  What  is  the  conclusion  ?  It  was  taught  that 
R.  Levi  said:  "  R.  Eliezer  meant  only  for  the  man  to  demon- 
strate his  veneration  of  God's  commandments."  This  is  sup- 
ported by  a  Boraitha,  which  plainly  states,  that  a  man  should 
carry  it  publicly,  and  not  have  it  concealed,  such  are  the  words 
of  R.  Eliezer.  Said  R.  Ashi :  All  this  is  unnecessary.  Our 
Mishna  plainly  teaches  us  the  same,   for  it  says,  that  only  in 

288 


TRACT   SABBATH.  289 

times  of  danger  the  knife  should  be  concealed,  and  it  is  easily 
understood  that  only  in  times  of  danger  is  this  to  be  done,  but 
not  under  ordinary  circumstances,  and  for  what  purpose  ?  Only 
to  show  that  a  commandment  should  be  venerated.  It  follows, 
therefrom,  that  the  argument  is  accepted. 

We  have  learned  in  another  Boraitha:  "  One  is  to  brinjr  it 
publicly,"  and  not  have  it  concealed,  such  are  the  words  of 
R.  Eliezer;  and  R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Eliezer, 
that  in  times  of  danger  the  custom  was  to  conceal  it  about  the 
person  before  two  witnesses. 

"  Further,  saith  R.  Eliezer,"  etc.  The  rabbis  taught:  In  the 
place  where  R.  Eliezer  resided,  wood  was  cut  and  burnt  into 
charcoal,  in  order  to  forge  an  instrument  (knife  for  circumcision) 
on  Sabbath.  In  the  place  where  R.  Jose  of  Galilee  lived,  fowls 
were  eaten  with  milk.  R.  Itz'hak  said :  There  was  a  city  in 
Palestine  where  R.  Eliezer's  teaching  was  carried  out,  and  there 
were  no  premature  deaths  in  that  city ;  and  not  only  this,  but  at 
one  time  when  the  government  prohibited  circumcision  in  the 
entire  land,  that  city  was  not  included  in  the  decree. 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel 
said:  "  Every  commandment  of  the  Lord  which  was  received 
by  the  children  of  Israel  with  joy,  for  instance  circumcision, 
concerning  which  It  is  written  [Psalms  cxix.  162] :  '  I  am 
rejoiced  over  thy  promise,*  as  one  that  findeth  great  spoil,*  is 
even  now  observed  with  joy;  but  every  commandment  which 
was  received  with  protest,  for  Instance  the  law  of  Incestuous 
marriages,  concerning  which  it  is  written  [Numbers  xi.  10] : 
'  And  Moses  heard  the  people  weep  according  to  their  families,' 
meaning  the  case  (of  intermarriage)  among  the  families,  is  even 
now  observed  reluctantly,  for  there  are  no  marriages  celebrated 
without  some  discord  among  the  families." 

We  have  learned,  that  R.  Simeon  ben  Elazar  said:  "  Every 
commandment  for  the  observance  of  which  the  Israelites  were 
ready  to  lay  down  their  lives,  as  for  that  prohibiting  idolatry  and 
commanding  circumcision,  is  observed  punctually  even  to  this 
day;  but  such  commandments  as  they  would  not  sacrifice  them- 
selves for  are  even  now  lightly  regarded,  as  is  the  case  with 
the  commandment  concerning  Tephillin."     As  R.  Yanal  said: 

*  Promise  stands  for  the  Hebrew  "  Imrothecho,"  literally  "  thy  word,"  and  the 
word  here  referred  to  signifies  the  first  commandment  given  to  Abraham,  which  was 
the  commandment  of  circumcision.  Hence  the  deduction,  that  the  commandment 
of  circumcision  was  received  with  joy. — Rashi. 


290  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

"  TephilHn  require  a  clean  body,  such  as  EHsha  the  man  of 
doves  possessed,"  What  is  meant  by  a  clean  body?  Abayi 
said  :  "A  body  that  emits  no  odor  when  clothed  with  Tephillin," 
and  Rabha  said:  "  A  body  that  will  never  become  drowsy  while 
wearing  Tephillin."  Why  was  Elisha  called  "  the  man  of 
wings  "  ?  It  once  happened  that  the  government  promulgated 
a  decree  by  which  all  Israelites  who  would  use  Tephillin  (phy- 
lacteries) were  to  be  decapitated.  This  Elisha  donned  his  phy- 
lacteries and  went  out  into  the  market.  He  was  seen  by  a  casdor 
(quaestor),  and  the  latter  pursued  him.  Seeing  that  he  could  not 
escape,  Elisha  took  the  phylacteries  from  his  head  and  carried 
them  in  his  hand.  When  questioned  by  the  quaestor  what  he 
carried  in  his  hand,  he  replied:  "Wings  of  doves."  When 
opening  his  hand,  he  really  found  doves*  wings,*  and  was  there- 
fore called  the  man  of  wings  ever  afterwards. 

R.  Aba  the  son  of  R.  Ada  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Itz'hak: 
"It  once  happened,  that  having  forgotten  to  bring  the  knife  for 
circumcision  on  the  day  before  Sabbath,  a  man  brought  it  on 
Sabbath,  by  way  of  the  roof  and  private  ground,  against  the 
will  of  R.  Eliezer."  R.  Joseph  opposed  this:  "  How  canst  thou 
say,  that  this  occurred  against  the  will  of  R.  Eliezer  ?  It  was 
R.  Eliezer  himself  who  permitted  bringing  the  knife  on  Sabbath? 
Thou  wouldst  infer,  then,  that  bringing  the  knife  by  way  of  pri- 
vate ground,  and  not  publicly,  was  against  his  will,  because  he 

*  This  seeming  miracle  is  explained  at  length  in  our  History  of  Amulets,  pp. 
24-26,  and  the  gist  of  the  explanation  is  as  follows  :  The  government  referred  to 
above  and  in  power  at  the  time  of  Elisha  was  Greek  and  not  Roman,  a  fact  demon- 
strated by  the  late  Dr.  Krochmal  in  his  "  Eyon  tephilah."  The  Greeks,  being  at  that 
time  at  war  with  the  Egyptians,  sought  to  destroy  any  ties  of  affinity  existing 
between  the  Jews  and  the  Egyptians,  and  to  that  end  promulgated  the  decree  pro- 
hibiting the  wearing  of  Tephillin  by  the  Jews,  for  those  Tephillin  bore  close  resem- 
blance to  the  totaphoth  (amulets)  worn  by  the  Egyptians.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  all 
amulets  worn  at  that  time  by  the  different  nations  bore  a  symbol  of  their  gods  or 
idols,  and  was  also  a  mark  of  nationality  ;  hence  the  government  in  power  desired 
that  all  its  vassals  wear  its  own  amulets.  The  Talmud  elsewhere  relates  that  the 
Samaritans  worshipped  as  their  idol  the  form  of  a  dove,  for  on  Mount  Gerizim, 
which  is  in  Samaritan  territory,  an  idol  of  that  kind  was  found,  which  had  been 
worshipped  by  them.  Elisha  knew  of  this,  and,  mindful  of  the  fact  that  the  Greeks 
were  at  peace  with  the  Samaritans,  carried  along  with  him  amulets  in  the  form  of 
(loves'  wings  (which  was  the  amulet  of  the  Samaritans)  in  order  to  substitute  them 
for  his  Tephillin,  whenever  the  necessity  for  the  deception  arose.  When  closely 
pressed  by  the  quaestor,  and  not  considering  the  commandment  of  wearing  Tephillin 
sufficiently  important  to  sacrifice  his  life  on  their  account,  he,  while  endeavoring 
to  escape,  changed  his  Tephillin  for  the  doves'  wings,  to  which  the  quaestor  could 
raise  no  objection. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  291 

insists  that  the  knife  should  be  brought  publicly  through  public 
ground  only.  In  accordance  with  whose  will  was  it  done  ?  If 
thou  wilt  say,  it  was  done  in  accordance  with  the  decree  of  the 
rabbis,  who  prohibit  bringing  the  knife  through  public  ground, 
and  permit  it  through  private  ground  and  roofs,  did  the  rabbis 
indeed  permit  this?  Have  we  not  learned  in  a  Boraitha,  that  in 
the  same  measure  as  it  is  not  allowed  to  bring  the  knife  through 
public  ground,  it  must  also  not  be  brought  through  roofs  and 
private  ground?"  Therefore  R.  Ashi  supplemented  the  state- 
ment of  R.  Aba  by  adding,  that  the  knife  was  brought  against 
the  will  of  R.  Eliezer  and  his  opponents ;  but  in  accordance  with 
the  decree  of  R.  Simeon,  who  permits  the  carrying  of  every- 
thing through  private  ground  and  roofs,  even  if  they  were  not 
combined  by  an  Erub  (in  Tract  Erubim). 

R.  Zera  once  found  R.  Assi  sitting  and  saying:  R.  Simeon 
ben  Lakish  said  in  the  name  of  R,  Jehudah  Hanassi  as  follows  : 
It  once  happened  that  they  forgot  to  bring  a  knife  for  circumci- 
sion on  the  eve  of  Sabbath,  so  they  brought  it  on  Sabbath. 
This  angered  the  sages  very  much,  for  the  reason,  that  the  decree 
of  the  former  sages  had  been  set  aside  and  that  they  had  acted 
according  to  the  decree  of  R.  Eliezer.  Firstly,  because  R. 
Eliezer  was  an  adherent  of  the  school  of  Shamai ;  and  secondly, 
because  where  one  man  is  opposed  to  a  number  the  majority 
should  prevail,  and  the  majority  was  against  R.  Eliezer;  and 
R.  Osiah  answered  the  sages,  who  were  angered,  that  the  case 
was  not  as  it  appeared  to  them.  "  For,"  said  he,  "  I  asked 
R.  Jehudah  the  circumciser,  and  he  told  me,  that  the  knife 
was  brought  through  an  alley  which  was  not  combined  by 
an  Erub,  from  one  end  to  the  other,  but  not  through  public 
ground." 

R.  Zera  then  said  to  R.  Assi:  "  Does  the  master  hold,  that 
things  may  be  removed  in  an  alley  which  was  not  combined  by 
an  Erub  ?"  R.  Assi  answered,  that  they  might.  Said  R.  Zera 
again:  "  Did  I  not  ask  thee  once  before  and  thou  gavest  me 
another  answer  ?  Was  it  because  thou  wast  engaged  in  other 
matters  and  this  Halakha  escaped  thee  ?  "  and  the  answer  was: 
"  Such  was  the  case." 

R.  Hyya  bar  Aba  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan :  "  The 
rule  laid  down  by  R.  Eliezer,  that  for  everything  pertaining  to 
circumcision  the  Sabbath  may  be  violated,  does  not  apply  also 
to  other  duties  of  the  day  which  should  happen  to  fall  on  the 
Sabbath;  because,  where  the  preparations    necessary    for    the 


292  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

bringing  of  the  two  loaves  on  Pentecost  are  concerned,  R.  Elie- 
zer  permitted  them  to  be  made  on  Sabbath  merely  through 
deduction  by  analogy,  although  this  was  also  a  duty  of  the  day 
based  on  a  biblical  ordinance."  Which  other  duties  of  the 
day  does  R.  Johanan  intend  to  except  from  this  rule  ?  We 
know,  that  in  preparing  the  booth,  the  palm-branch,  and  all 
their  accessories  (for  the  feast  of  Booths)  the  Sabbath  may 
be  violated.  The  same  is  the  case  with  Lulab,  with  Matza, 
and  with  Shofar,  as  it  is  stated  in  other  Boraithas.  Such  is 
the  dictum  of  R.  Eliezer.  Said  R.  Ada  bar  Ahabha:  "  R. 
Johanan  intended  to  except  Tzitzith  (show-threads)  for  a  gar- 
ment and  a  Mezuzah  (door-post  inscription)  for  a  house  (al- 
though both  of  these  are  duties  of  the  day,  for  if  a  man  wear 
a  garment  he  must  have  Tzitzith,  and  if  he  enter  a  house  he 
must  have  a  Mezuzah.)  "  This  we  have  also  learned  in  a  Bo- 
raitha:  "  They  all  agree  (even  R.  Eliezer),  that  if  one  made  a 
show-thread  for  his  garment,  or  a  Mezuzah  for  his  door,  on  the 
Sabbath,  he  is  liable  for  a  sin-offering."  Why  so  ?  Said  R. 
Joseph:  "  Because  no  specified  time  is  set  for  the  accomplish- 
ment of  these  duties."  Said  Abayi  to  him:  "  On  the  contrary, 
just  because  no  specified  time  was  set  for  the  accomplishment  of 
that  duty,  every  moment  is  the  time  for  performing  it  (so,  if  he 
have  the  garment  on  Sabbath,  or  enter  the  house  on  that  day,  he 
should  perform  those  duties,  and  hence  it  must  be  considered  a 
duty  of  the  day)."  Therefore  said  R.  Na'hman  in  the  name  of 
R.  Itz'hak,  and  according  to  others  R.  Huna  the  son  of  R. 
Jehoshua  :  "  The  reason  is,  because  one  is  enabled  to  abandon 
these  things  for  the  time  being  (and  hence  the  duty  does  not 
devolve  upon  him  for  that  day)," 

From  what  we  have  learned  above,  we  see,  that  for  the  cir- 
cumcision itself  and  all  its  necessary  accessories  the  Sabbath 
may  be  violated,  according  to  the  dictum  of  R.  Eliezer.  Whence 
does  he  deduce  this  ?  This  is  the  reasoning  of  R.  Ehezer :  It 
is  written  [Leviticus  xii.  3] :  "  And  on  the  eighth  day  shall  the 
flesh  of  his  foreskin  be  circumcised."  Thus,  as  it  says  dis- 
tinctly the  eighth  day,  it  makes  no  difference  what  day  the 
eighth  falls  on,  whether  it  be  Sabbath  or  not.  Let  us  see:  The 
rabbis  and  R.  Eliezer  differ  only  as  far  as  the  preparations  for 
circumcision  on  the  Sabbath  are  concerned,  but  not  as  to  the 
circumcision  itself.  If,  then,  they  do  not  regard  the  text  quoted 
as  does  R.  Eliezer,  they  should  not  even  permit  the  violation 
of  the  Sabbath  on  account  of  circumcision  itself.     What  source 


TRACT    SABBATH.  293 

do  they  base  their  permission  on  ?  Said  Ula,  and  also  R.  Itz- 
'hak:  "  This  is  traditional." 

An  objection  was  raised :  We  have  learned  that  the  Sabbath 
may  be  violated  in  order  to  save  life.  Whence  do  we  know  this  ? 
Said  R.  Elazar  ben  Azariah:  "  Why!  if  it  be  permitted  when 
circumcision  is  concerned  to  violate  the  Sabbath,  where  but 
one  of  the  many  members  of  the  body  is  concerned,  it  should 
certainly  be  permitted  in  so  much  greater  a  degree  when  the 
whole  body  is  to  be  saved.  If  thou  sayest,  then,  that  the  per- 
mission to  perform  circumcision  on  the  Sabbath  is  only  tradi- 
tional, how  is  it  possible  that  thou  shouldst  derive  an  a  fortiori 
assumption  from  a  traditional  institution?"  Therefore  R.  Jo- 
hanan  saith,  that  the  permission  to  perform  the  rite  of  circum- 
cision on  Sabbath  is  not  based  upon  tradition,  but  is  derived 
from  the  word  "  day,"  as  the  verse  quoted  above  reads:  "  And 
on  the  eighth  day,"  etc. ;  whereas  it  could  read  simply,  "  And 
on  the  eighth";  for  in  the  preceding  verse  we  read  "seven 
days,"  etc. 

Said  Resh  Lakish  to  R.  Johanan  :  "  The  word  '  day,'  however, 
is  also  necessary,  that  we  may  know  that  the  rite  must  be  per- 
formed during  the  day  and  not  at  night !  "  This  can  be  inferred 
from  another  passage  [Genesis  xvii.  12],  where  it  expressly  says: 
"  And  at  eight  days  old  shall  every  man-child  in  your  generations 
be  circumcised,"  etc. 

R.  A'ha  bar  Jacob  said:  As  far  as  the  rite  of  circumcision 
itself  is  concerned,  the  rabbis  also  hold  that  the  permission  to 
perform  it  is  based  on  the  passage  quoted,  "  and  on  the  eighth 
day";  but  as  for  the  preparations  necessary  for  circumcision, 
they  claim  to  find  no  justification  for  violating  the  Sabbath  on 
that  account.  But  it  is  absolutely  necessary  that  "  the  eighth  " 
be  mentioned,  for  otherwise  how  would  we  know  that  the  rite 
should  not  be  performed  on  the  seventh  ?  That  is  also  definitely 
settled  by  the  other  passage,  as  stated  above:  "And  at  eight 
days  old,"  etc.  Still,  both  passages  are  necessary,  in  order  to 
prove  that  the  eighth  day  is  the  day  for  circumcision ;  because, 
if  it  did  not  state  expressly  "  on  the  eighth  day,"  it  might  be 
presumed  that  the  seventh  day  would  do,  and  if  it  did  not  state 
"  at  eight  days  old,"  it  might  be  presumed  that  after  the  child 
is  eight  days  old  any  other  later  day,  e.g.,  the  ninth,  would  do. 
Hence  R.  Johanan's  explanation  is  the  most  acceptable;  and  we 
have  learned  in  a  Boraitha  in  support  of  R.  Johanan's  explana- 
tion, and  not  of  that  of  R.  A'ha  bar  Jacob,  as  follows:  "  On. 


294  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

the  eighth  day  shall  he  be  circumcised,  even  though  it  be  Sab- 
bath." How,  then,  is  it  possible  to  keep  the  commandment  in 
Exodus  xxxi.  14?  "  And  ye  shall  keep  the  Sabbath,  for  it  is 
holy  unto  you :  every  one  that  defileth  it  shall  surely  be  put  to 
death."  This  refers  to  other  labor,  but  not  to  that  of  circumci- 
sion. How,  then,  do  we  know  that  circumcision  is  not  included 
in  the  prohibited  labor,  and  that  the  eighth  day  does  not  refer 
to  all  other  days  except  Sabbath  ?  To  this  end  it  reads  "  the 
eighth  day,'"  and  "  day  "  means,  even  on  Sabbath. 

The  rabbis  taught :  Although  it  is  written  [Deut.  xxiv.  8] : 
"  Take  heed  in  the  plague  of  leprosy,"  which  signifies,  that  the 
leprous  spot  must  not  be  cut;  but  if  the  white  spot  (the  symp- 
tom of  leprosy)  show  itself  on  the  member  to  be  circumcised, 
it  may  be  cut  off,  whether  the  member  be  circumcised  at  the 
prescribed  time  or  afterwards. 

A  biblical  festival  must  not  be  violated  on  account  of  circum- 
cision, unless  it  happen  to  be  the  eighth  day  (precisely  the  pre- 
scribed time).  Whence  do  we  adduce  these  two  ordinances  ? 
From  the  teaching  of  the  rabbis,  as  follows:  The  first  one  is 
based  on  the  verse  [Leviticus  xii.  3]  :  "  And  on  the  eighth  day 
shall  \\it.  flesh  of  his  foreskin  be  circumcised."  The  order  is 
imperative,  regardless  of  whether  the  member  be  leprous  or  not. 
Whence  do  we  know  this  ?  Perhaps  it  means  to  say,  that  only 
the  healthy  flesh  of  the  foreskin  be  circumcised  ?  Nay;  it  could 
say  merely  the  foreskin,  but  it  says  expressly  the  flesh  of  the 
foreskin,  meaning  that  even  if  the  flesh  be  leprous  it  should  also 
be  circumcised.  What  need  is  there  of  a  special  verse  for  this 
purpose  ?  During  circumcision  no  intention  to  cut  leprous  flesh 
exists;  hence,  if  it  be  done,  it  is  done  unintentionally,  and  an 
unintentional  act  does  not  involve  culpability  ?  Said  Abayi : 
"  The  verse  is  used  here  to  counteract  the  opinion  of  R.  Jehu- 
dah,  who  holds,  that  an  act  committed  unintentionally  also 
involves  culpability."  Rabha  said:  "  The  verse  must  be  used, 
even  if  the  opinion  of  R.  Simeon  be  adhered  to,  who  holds, 
that  an  act  committed  unintentionally  does  not  involve  culpabil- 
ity. For  in  this  case  it  is  different ;  the  act  committed  here  is 
like  the  one  where  a  man  would  behead  another  and  still  claim 
no  intention  to  kill  him  (and  when  circumcising  the  flesh  of  the 
foreskin,  if  there  be  a  leprous  sore,  one  cannot  help  but  cut  it). 
This,  even  R.  Simeon  admits,  would  involve  culpability,  were  it 
not  for  that  exonerating  verse."  Does  Rabha  alone  hold  thus  ? 
Have  we  not   learned  elsewhere  that   Abayi  and   Rabha  both 


TRACT   SABBATH. 


295 


agree,  that  R.  Simeon  declares  even  an  unintentional  act,  which 
is,  however,  like  the  case  of  one  beheading  another  without  the 
intention  to  kill  him,  to  be  prohibited  ?  After  Abayi  had  heard 
Rabha's  explanation,  he  accepted  it. 

The  second  ordinance  mentioned  is,  according  to  Rabha, 
based  upon  the  verse  [Exodus  xii.  16]:  "  No  manner  of  work 
shall  be  done  on  them,  save  what  is  eaten  by  every  man ;  that 
^«/j/ may  be  prepared  by  you."  "That"  stands  for  circumci- 
sion only  in  its  prescribed  time,  but  not  for  the  preparation  for 
it;  and  "  only"  stands  as  a  prohibition  not  to  perform  the  rite 
unless  it  be  the  prescribed  time.  R.  Ashi,  however,  said:  "  No 
special  verse  is  needed  for  this,  for  a  festival  is  referred  to  [in 
Leviticus  xxiii.  32]  as  "  a  sabbath  of  rest  shall  it  be  unto  you." 
Hence  it  is  a  positive  commandment,  and  the  verse  stated  (imme- 
diately before  this)  is  a  negative  commandment ;  thus  a  festival 
is  covered  by  both  a  positive  and  negative  commandment,  while 
circumcision  is  covered  by  a  positive  commandment  only,  and 
one  positive  commandment  cannot  supersede  a  joint  positive  and 
negative  commandment. 

"  A  rule  was  laid  down  by  R.  Aqiba."  Said  R.  Jehudah  in 
the  name  of  Rabh :  "  The  Halakha  according  to  R.  Aqiba  pre- 
vails." We  have  learned  also  in  the  matter  of  Passover  sacri- 
fices to  the  same  effect,  that  every  act  of  labor  that  can  be  per- 
formed on  the  day  before  Sabbath  must  not  supersede  the 
(due  observance  of)  Sabbath,  but  the  killing  of  the  sacrifice, 
which  cannot  be  done  on  the  day  before  Sabbath,  does  supersede 
(the  due  observance  of)  Sabbath ;  and  R.  Jehudah  declared  also, 
in  the  name  of  Rabh,  that  the  Halakha  according  to  R.  Aqiba 
prevails.  It  is  necessary  that  he  should  so  instruct  us  at  both 
times,  because,  if  he  instructed  only  as  concerns  circumcision, 
we  might  assume  that  where  sacrifices  for  the  Passover  are  con- 
cerned, the  preparations  which  could  have  been  made  on  the  day 
before  Sabbath,  but  were  not,  would  supersede  the  due  observ- 
ance of  the  Sabbath;  because  failure  to  bring  that  sacrifice 
would  involve  the  punishment  of  Karath  (being  cut  off),  while 
failure  in  circumcision  would  not  involve  Karath,  if  not  per- 
formed at  the  right  time;  and,  on  the  other  hand,  had  he 
instructed  us  only  as  concerns  sacrifices  for  the  Passover,  we 
might  assume  that  the  Sabbath  could  be  violated  if  the  acts 
necessary  for  circumcision  which  could  have  been  performed  on 
the  day  before,  were  not;  for  the  reason,  that  the  covenant 
regarding  circumcision  is  mentioned  thirteen  times  in  the  Thora, 


296  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

and  is  in  consequence  regarded  as  a  thirteenfold  commandment, 
which  must  under  all  circumstances  be  observed.  Hence  the 
necessity  for  the  twofold  instruction. 

MISHNA:  One  may  perform  everything  necessary  for  cir- 
cumcision on  the  Sabbath,  as  circumcising,  tearing  open,  suck- 
ing out  the  blood,  applying  a  plaster  or  caraway  seed.  If  the 
latter  had  not  been  ground  before  the  Sabbath,  one  may  masti- 
cate it  with  the  teeth  and  then  apply  it.  If  one  had  not  mixed 
wine  with  oil  before  the  Sabbath,  he  may  apply  each  separately. 
One  must  not  prepare  an  actual  bandage  (on  the  Sabbath),  but 
may  apply  an  old  piece  of  linen ;  and  if  such  had  not  been  pre- 
pared before  the  Sabbath,  the  circumciser  may  bring  it  with  him 
tied  around  his  finger  and  even  from  another  court  (yard). 

GEMARA:  Let  us  see:  The  Mishna  enumerates  all  the  acts 
necessary  for  the  performance  of  the  rite  of  circumcision ;  why, 
then,  does  it  commence  by  saying,  "  everything  necessary"  for 
circumcision,  and  then  proceed  to  detail  "  everything  "  ?  What 
act  is  there  that  has  not  been  enumerated  ?  The  Mishna  means 
to  include  what  was  taught  us  by  the  rabbis,  as  follows:  "  The 
circumciser,  while  engaged  in  finishing  the  circumcision,  if  notic- 
ing that  excrescences  still  remain  on  the  gland,  whether  they  are 
of  a  nature  which  make  the  circumcision  invalid  or  such  as  do 
not  make  it  invalid,  may  remove  them.  But  if  he  had  already 
finished  (and  put  up  his  instruments),  if  excrescences  which 
make  the  circumcision  invalid  remain,  he  may  remove  them ; 
but  if  they  do  not  make  the  circumcision  invalid,  he  must  not 
remove  them."  (Hence  by  stating  "  everything  that  is  neces- 
sary," etc.,  the  Mishna  means  to  include,  that  it  is  permitted 
even  to  remove  excrescences  which  do  not  make  the  circumcision 
invalid,  provided  the  operator  had  not  already  finished  and  put 
up  his  instruments.)  Who  is  the  Tana  who  holds,  that  if  the 
circumciser  had  already  finished  he  must  not  return  and  remove 
the  excrescences  ?  Said  Rabha  bar  bar  Hana  in  the  name  of  R. 
Johanan,  it  was  R.  Ishmael  the  son  of  R.  Johananben  Berokah, 
as  we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  "  If  the  fourteenth  of  Nissan 
fall  on  a  Sabbath,  the  animal  used  for  the  Passover  sacrifice  may 
be  skinned  only  as  far  as  the  breast,  so  saith  R.  Ishmael  the  son 
of  R.  Johanan  ben  Berokah;  but  the  sages  say,  that  the  whole 
animal  may  be  skinned."  (Now,  we  see  that  R.  Ishmael  holds, 
that  after  the  work  had  been  completed  as  far  as  was  necessary 
no  more  may  be  done;  hence  he  is  the  one  who  says,  that  the 
circumciser  must  not  return  to  remove  the  excrescences.)     This 


TRACT   SABBATH.  297 

is  not  conclusive  evidence!  It  may  be  that  R.  Ishmael  in  the 
case  of  the  sacrifice  holds,  that  because  it  is  not  necessary  that 
the  commandment  be  beautified.*  But  in  the  case  of  circum- 
cision, where  the  beautifying  of  the  commandment  is  necessary 
(as  is  taught  in  Tract  Sakkah),  we  might  say,  that  R.  Ishmael  is 
of  a  different  opinion ;  therefore  the  sages  of  Neherdai  say,  that 
the  Tanas  who  hold,  that  after  having  finished  the  circumcision 
the  operator  must  not  commence  anew,  are  in  reality  the  rabbis 
who  differ  with  R.  Jose  in  Tract  Menachoth  concerning  the  law 
of  the  showbreads.f 

The  rabbis  taught:  "  If  excrescences  remain  on  the  gland 
after  circumcision,  and  are  such  as  make  the  circumcision  in- 
valid, they  must  be  removed ;  and  failure  to  do  so  involves  the 
punishment  of  Karath."  Who  becomes  liable  to  be  punished 
by  Karath  ?  Said  R.  Kahana:  "  The  circumciser. "  (If  he  per- 
formed the  circumcision  on  Sabbath  and  did  not  finish  it,  he 
simply  made  a  wound  and  did  not  perform  a  commandment; 
hence  he  becomes  amenable  to  Karath.  R.  Papa  opposed  this: 
"  The  circumciser  might  say,  '  I  have  performed  one  half  of  a 
commandment ;  come  ye  and  complete  the  other  half.  Why 
should  I  be  punished  by  Karath  ? '  Therefore  if  the  circumcision 
was  performed  on  an  adult  who,  excrescences  which  make  it 
invalid  having  remained,  will  not  permit  them  to  be  removed, 
he  becomes  amenable  to  Karath."  This  was  opposed  by  R. 
Ashi :  "  As  for  an  adult,  what  news  does  that  impart  to  us  ?  It 
is  expressly  stated  [Genesis  xvii.  14]  :  '  And  any  uncircumcised 
male,  who  circumciseth  not  the  flesh  of  his  foreskin,  that  soul 
shall  be  cut  off  from  his  people'  ?  Therefore  he  says  nay;  it 
really  refers  to  the  circumciser,  and  only  then  if  he  came  late  on 
Sabbath,  near  twilight,  and  was  told  that  it  would  be  impossible 
to  finish  the  operation  before  night,  but  persisted  in  performing 
it.  If  in  consequence  he  left  excrescences  which  make  the  cir- 
cumcision invalid,  he  simply  made  a  wound  without  performing 
a  commandment,  and  thus  he  becomes  amenable  to  Karath." 

"  Sucking  out  the  blood.''  R.  Papa  said:  "  The  circumciser 
who  does  not  suck  out  the  wound  places  the  child  in  danger, 
and  should  be  discharged  from  office."     Is  this  not  self-evident  ? 

*  The  Hebrew  word  "  Veanvehu  "  is  interpreted  by  the  Talmud  to  signify  "  and  I 
will  beautify  him,"  while  in  the  translation  of  the  Bible,  by  I.  Leaser,  it  is  translated, 
"  I  will  sing  his  praise,"  and  the  reference  made  to  the  verse  by  the  Talmud  accepts 
the  term  in  its  Talmudical  sense. 

f  This  will  be  explained  in  the  Tract  Menachoth. 


298"  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

It  certainly  must  be  dangerous  not  to  do  this,  or  the  Sabbath 
would  not  be  violated  in  order  to  perform  that  duty !  We  might 
assume,  that  the  blood  having  already  come  to  the  surface  it 
would  run  out  of  itself,  and  hence  by  sucking  it  out  the  Sab- 
bath is  not  violated ;  hence  we  are  given  to  understand  that  this 
is  not  so :  the  blood  is  moved  only  by  the  suction,  and  the  Sab- 
bath is  violated ;  but  failure  to  do  this  would  involve  danger  for 
the  child  and  hence  it  is  permitted,  and  is  regarded  the  same  as 
applying  a  plaster  or  caraway  seeds  (mentioned  further  on  in  the 
Mishna),  the  omission  of  which  would  also  involve  danger  to 
the  child. 

"  Applying  a  plaster  or  caraway  seeds.''  Abayi  said:  "  My 
mother  told  me,  that  the  most  effective  plaster  for  all  ills  is 
made  of  seven  different  kinds  of  fat  and  one  kind  of  wax  "  ;  and 
Rabha  said:  "  The  best  plaster  for  all  ills  is  one  made  of  wax 
and  resin."  Rabha  stated  this  publicly  in  a  lecture  in  the  city 
of  Mehuzza,  and  two  brothers  the  sons  of  Minyumi,  who  were 
physicians,  tore  their  clothes  in  anger;  for  they  had  known  of  it 
and  made  capital  out  of  the  secret,  until  Rabha  came  and 
revealed  it.  Said  Rabha  to  them:  "  I  will  tell  you  of  some- 
thing that  I  shall  not  proclaim  publicly,  and  that  is,  Samuel 
said,  that  one  who  washes  his  face  and  does  not  dry  it  thor- 
oughly, becomes  afflicted  with  scabs,  and  the  remedy  for  such  is 
the  fluid  extract  of  mangold." 

'  *  If  the  latter  {caraway  seeds)  had  not  been  ground  before  the 
Sabbath,'*  etc.  The  rabbis  taught:  "  In  preparing  for  circumci- 
sion, such  things  as  must  not  be  done  on  Sabbath,  may  be  done 
on  a  festival.  One  may  grind  the  seeds  and  mix  wine  with  oil." 
Asked  Abayi  of  R.  Joseph :  Why  may  the  caraway  seeds  be 
ground  on  a  festival  ?  because  they  may  be  utilized  for  cooking : 
then  why  should  it  not  be  permitted  to  mix  wine  with  oil  on 
Sabbath  ?  It  may  be  utilized  for  a  sick  person  who  is  not  dan- 
gerously ill.  As  we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  "  Wine  and  oil 
must  not  be  mixed  for  a  sick  person  on  the  Sabbath,"  but  R. 
Simeon  ben  Elazar  in  the  name  of  R.  Meir  said,  that  it  may 
be.  Said  R.  Simeon  ben  Elazar:  It  once  happened,  that  R. 
Meir  was  sick  with  stomach  trouble,  and  we  wanted  to  mix  wine 
with  oil  for  him  (on  the  Sabbath),  but  he  would  not  permit  us 
to  do  this.  So  we  asked  him  whether  he  wished  his  own  words 
to  be  made  void  during  his  lifetime,  and  he  answered:  "  Nay;  it 
is  allowed  to  mix  wine  with  oil  on  Sabbath,  but  I  cannot  bring 
it  over  me  to  act  contrary  to  the  decree  of   my  colleagues." 


TRACT   SABBATH.  299 

Thus  we  see,  that  it  is  at  all  events  allowed  to  mix  wine  with  oil 
on  the  Sabbath.  Why,  then,  does  the  Mishna  say,  that  if  this 
was  not  done  on  the  day  before  the  Sabbath,  each  should  be 
applied  separately  ?  The  difference  lies  therein,  that  when 
giving  it  to  a  sick  person,  it  is  merely  mixed,  but  when  used  for 
a  balm  (at  circumcision)  it  must  be  thoroughly  stirred  and  re- 
quires a  good  deal  of  labor.  Let  it  be  given  (applied)  just 
mixed.  That  is  just  what  the  Mishna  prescribes,  each  to  be 
applied  separately;  i.e.,  it  should  not  be  stirred. 

Abayi  said:  "  My  mother  told  me,  that  if  a  child  appears 
red  all  over  it  is  a  sign  that  the  circulation  is  imperfect,  and 
hence  circumcision  should  be  postponed  until  the  circulation  is 
perfect.  If  a  child  has  a  greenish  cast  it  is  a  sign  that  the  blood 
is  impoverished,  and  circumcision  should  then  be  postponed 
until  the  blood  is  richer."  This  we  have  also  learned  in  a  Bo- 
raitha,  as  follows :  "  R.  Nathan  said :  '  I  once  went  to  a  city  by 
the  sea,  and  there  met  a  woman  whose  first  and  second  child 
both  died  in  consequence  of  circumcision.  The  third  child  she 
brought  to  me,  and  I  noticed  that  it  was  quite  red.  I  told  her 
to  wait  until  the  blood  had  settled  and  then  circumcise  it.  She 
did  so  and  then  circumcised  it,  and  the  child  lived.  The  child 
was  then  named  after  me,  Nathan  the  Babylonian.  At  another 
time  I  came  to  the  country  of  Cappadocia,  and  a  woman  came 
to  me  telling  me  that  she  had  had  two  children  circumcised,  both 
of  whom  had  died  in  consequence  of  circumcision.  The  third 
she  brought  to  me,  and  I  noticed  that  it  had  a  greenish  cast.  I 
also  noticed,  that  if  it  were  circumcised  no  blood  would  flow;  so 
I  told  her  to  wait  until  the  circulation  of  the  blood  was  in  order. 
She  did  so,  and  the  child  was  circumcised,  and  lived.  She 
named  it  also  after  me,  and  called  it  Nathan  the  Babylonian.'  " 

MISHNA :  One  may  bathe  the  child  both  before  the  circum- 
cision as  well  as  after  (on  Sabbath),  by  sprinkling  water  over  it 
with  the  hand,  but  not  by  pouring  water  over  it  from  a  vessel. 
R.  Eliezer  ben  Azariah  says :  One  may  bathe  a  child  on  the 
third  day  (after  the  circumcision),  even  if  it  fall  on  a  Sabbath  ;  for 
it  is  written  [Genesis  xxxiv.  25]  :  "  And  it  came  to  pass  on  the 
third  day,  when  they  were  sore."  On  account  of  a  doubtful 
child  (a  child  about  which  there  is  a  doubt  whether  it  was  born 
in  the  eighth  month  of  its  gestation,  and  is  therefore  not  ex- 
pected to  live)  or  an  hermaphrodite,  the  Sabbath  (-rest)  must  not 
be  desecrated.  R.  Jehudah  permits  this  in  the  case  of  an  her- 
maphrodite. 


300  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

GEMARA :  The  Mishna  commences  by  saying:  "  One  may 
bathe  the  child,"  and  then  goes  on  to  say  that  it  may  only  be 
sprinkled  by  hand.  That  is  not  bathing!  Said  Rabha :  "  The 
Mishna  means  to  state,  that  a  child  may  be  bathed  as  usual  on 
the  day  of  circumcision,  either  before  or  after  the  performance 
of  the  rite ;  but  on  the  third  day  after  circumcision,  if  that  day 
should  be  a  Sabbath,  one  may  only  sprinkle  the  child  by  hand, 
and  not  bathe  it  in  a  vessel."  R.  Elazar  ben  Azariah,  however, 
said,  that  even  if  the  third  day  fall  on  a  Sabbath  the  child  may 
be  bathed  as  usual,  as  it  is  written  [Gen.  xxxiv.  15]  :  "  And  it 
came  to  pass  on  the  third  day,  when  they  were  sore." 

When  R.  Dimi  came  from  Palestine,  he  said  in  the  name  of 
R.  Elazar,  that  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Elazar  ben 
Azariah.  In  the  West  the  question  was  discussed  whether  R. 
Elazar  ben  Azariah  meant  that  the  whole  body  of  the  child 
might  be  bathed,  or  whether  the  part  circumcised  only  might  be 
bathed.  Said  one  of  the  rabbis,  whose  name  was  R.  Jacob:  "  It 
seems  to  me  that  the  whole  body  is  meant,  because  if  the  wound 
only  was  meant,  wherein  does  the  wound  caused  by  circumcision 
differ  from  any  other  wound  ?  Any  wound  may  be  bathed  on 
the  Sabbath  in  water  and  oil,  according  to  Rabh's  opinion." 
This  was  opposed  by  R.  Joseph :  "  Is  it  immaterial  whether  the 
water  was  warmed  on  the  Sabbath  or  before  the  Sabbath?" 
This  was  again  opposed  by  R.  Dimi :  "  Whence  dost  thou  know 
that  the  Mishna  refers  to  water  that  was  warrhed  on  Sabbath, 
perhaps  they  (the  sages  and  R.  Elazar)  differ  even  as  to  water 
warmed  before  the  Sabbath  set  in  ? "  Said  Abayi :  "  I  was  pre- 
pared to  answer  this  question  myself,  but  R.  Joseph  preceded 
me  and  said,  that  of  a  necessity  the  water  must  have  been 
warmed  on  Sabbath,  because  the  precariousness  of  the  child 
demanded  it," 

We  were  also  taught,  that  when  Rabhin  came  from  Pales- 
tine, he  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Abuha  quoting  R.  Elazar,  and 
according  to  another  version,  in  the  name  of  R.  Abuha  quoting 
R.  Johanan,  that  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Elazar 
ben  Azariah,  whether  it  be  with  water  that  was  warmed  on  the 
Sabbath  or  before  the  Sabbath,  or  whether  the  whole  body  or 
only  the  circumcised  part  is  concerned,  because  it  would  be 
dangerous  not  to  bathe  the  child  on  that  day. 

It  was  said  above  in  the  name  of  Rabh,  that  every  wound 
may  be  bathed  on  the  Sabbath  with  water  or  oil ;  but  Samuel  said 
that  water  may  be  poured  to  one  side  of  the  wound  and  it  may 


TRACT   SABBATH.  301 

run  down  into  the  wound.  An  objection  was  made :  "  We  have 
learned,  that  oil  or  water  must  not  be  put  on  a  piece  of  cotton 
to  place  on  a  wound  ?"  This  is  prohibited  on  account  of  the 
necessity  to  wring  the  piece  of  cotton.  We  have  been  taught  by 
a  Boraitha  in  accordance  with  Samuel's  opinion;  viz.:  "Water 
must  not  be  placed  directly  on  the  wound,  but  near  it,  that  it 
may  run  down  into  the  wound." 

The  rabbis  taught:  "  Dry  cotton  and  dry  sponge,  but  not 
dry  papyrus  or  dry  cloth,  maybe  placed  on  a  wound."  This 
presents  a  contradiction.  Is  not  dry  cotton  the  same  as  dry 
cloth  ?  This  is  no  diflficulty.  By  cloth  is  meant  new  cloth, 
which  must  not  be  used,  whereas  old  cloth  may  be.  Said 
Abayi :  "  From  this  we  see,  that  pieces  of  cloth  heal  a  wound." 

"  On  account  of  a  doubtful  child  or  an  hermaphrodite,''  etc. 
The  rabbis  taught:  It  is  written  [Leviticus  xii.  3],  "  his  fore- 
skin'' \  so,  on  account  of  a  foreskin  which  must  be  circumcised, 
the  Sabbath  may  be  violated,  but  on  account  of  one  which  is 
doubtful  the  Sabbath  must  not  be  desecrated.  Such  also  is  the 
case  with  the  circumcision  of  the  foreskin  of  a  true  male,  but 
not  with  that  of  an  hermaphrodite.  R.  Jehudah,  however,  says, 
that  the  Sabbath  may  be  violated  on  account  of  an  hermaphro- 
dite, and  if  the  latter  is  not  circumcised  he  becomes  amenable  to 
Karath.  The  Sabbath  may  also  be  violated  on  account  of  a 
child  who  was  born  at  a  certain  time,  but  not  on  account  of  one 
who  was  born  at  twilight  (and  it  is  not  known  whether  it  was 
born  on  Sabbath  or  on  the  following  day).  It  is  not  allowed  to 
violate  the  Sabbath  on  account  of  a  child  who  was  born  without 
a  foreskin,  because  the  school  of  Shamai  (only)  contends,  that 
even  if  a  child  is  born  without  a  foreskin,  some  blood  must  be 
drawn  in  commemoration  of  the  covenant.  The  school  of 
Hillel,  however,  says,  "  That  is  not  necessary."  Said  R.  Sim- 
eon ben  Elazar:  "The  school  of  Hillel  and  the  school  of 
Shamai  did  not  differ  as  to  a  child  born  without  a  foreskin ;  both 
agree  that  blood  must  be  drawn  from  it,  because  the  foreskin  is 
not  wholly  missing,  but  is  merely  ingrown.  They  differ  only  as 
regards  a  proselyte  who  was  born  without  a  foreskin.  When 
seeking  conversion,  the  school  of  Shamai  contends  that  blood 
of  the  covenant  must  be  drawn  from  his  gland,  whereas  the 
school  of  Hillel  does  not  require  this  to  be  done. 

The  Master  said:  "  On  account  of  a  doubtful  child,  the  Sab- 
bath must  not  be  desecrated."  What  does  he  mean  by  "  doubt- 
ful"  ?      He   means  to  say,  what  we  learned  from   the  rabbis; 

VOL.  II.-— 8 


302  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

viz.:  A  child  born  in  the  seventh  month  may  have  the  Sabbath 
violated  for  it,  but  if  born  in  the  eighth  it  must  not.  If  it  is 
doubtful  whether  it  was  born  in  the  seventh  or  in  the  eighth 
month,  the  Sabbath  must  not  be  violated  on  its  account.  Not 
only  this,  but  a  child  born  in  the  eighth  month  must  not  even  be 
carried  on  the  Sabbath,  because  it  is  like  a  stone  (and  cannot 
live).  It  is  allowed,  however,  for  the  mother  to  stoop  down 
and  suckle  the  child,  because  it  is  dangerous  for  the  mother  to 
carry  too  much  milk. 

We  were  taught  that  Rabh  said  (referring  to  a  child  born 
without  a  foreskin) :  The  Halakha  prevails  according  to  the  un- 
known Tana,  while  Samuel  said,  the  Halakha  prevails  according 
to  R.  Simeon  ben  Elazar.  R.  Ada  bar  Ahabha  had  a  child  that 
was  born  without  a  foreskin ;  so  he  carried  him  to  thirteen  cir- 
cumcisers,  until  the  child  was  maimed  and  made  impotent.  Said 
he:  "I  deserve  this  fate,  because  I  did  not  follow  the  dictum  of 
Rabh."  Said  R.  Na'hman  to  him:  "  Thou  hast  not  only  dis- 
obeyed Rabh,  but  also  Samuel,  for  Samuel  said,  that  a  child 
born  without  a  foreskin  should  be  bled  only  if  it  was  born  on  a 
week-day,  but  not  on  a  Sabbath ;  and  thy  child  was  born  on  a 
Sabbath."  R.  Ada  bar  Ahabha,  however,  held,  that  he  had 
only  disobeyed  Rabh,  because,  he  was  certain  that  the  foreskin 
of  a  child  is  never  wholly  missing,  but  is  merely  ingrown  and 
should  be  lanced  even  on  Sabbath,  as  we  were  taught :  Rabba 
said,  that  there  is  fear  lest  it  be  an  ingrown  foreskin ;  but  R. 
Joseph  said,  that  we  were  certain  that  it  is  so.  Said  R. 
Joseph:  "  Whence  do  I  know  this  ?  From  the  following  Borai- 
tha:  R.  Elazar  Hakappar  said,  that  the  school  of  Shamai  and 
Hillel  do  not  differ  as  to  a  child  that  is  born  without  a  foreskin. 
Both  agree  that  the  blood  of  the  covenant  must  be  drawn  from 
the  gland.  The  school  of  Shamai,  however,  contends  that  this 
may  be  done  on  the  Sabbath,  while  the  other  holds  that  the 
Sabbath  must  not  be  desecrated  on  that  account.  If,  then,  R. 
Eliezer  Hakappar  holds,  that  they  differ  only  as  to  the  desecra- 
tion of  the  Sabbath,  the  first  Tana  must  hold,  that  both  schools 
agree  that  the  Sabbath  may  be  desecrated  on  that  account,  and 
in  consequence  must  also  hold,  that  the  foreskin  is  not  wholly 
missing  but  is  merely  ingrown  (hence  I  am  certain  that  it  is  so)." 

Whence  do  we  know  that  the  first  Tana  holds,  as  above, 
and  not  that  both  schools  agree  to  the  contrary;  viz.  :  that  the 
Sabbath  must  not  be  desecrated  ?  If  such  would  be  the  case, 
for  what  reason  would  Hakappar  tell  us  that  Beth  Shamai  holds 


TRACT    SABBATH.  303 

that  the  Sabbath  should  be  violated  ?  The  Halakha  would  not 
prevail  thus  ?  Nay!  Perhaps  R.  Eliezer  means  to  tell  us,  prin- 
cipally, that  both  schools  hold,  that  if  a  child  is  born  without  a 
foreskin  on  a  week-day  he  must  have  his  gland  lanced  (and  inci- 
dentally mentions  that  if  a  difference  existed,  it  was  concerning 
the  Sabbath). 

R.  Assi  said :  If  a  child  be  born  of  a  woman  who,  after 
giving  birth,  must  keep  the  law  mentioned  in  Leviticus  xii.  2, 
the  child  must  be  circumcised  on  the  eighth  day;  but  in  a  case 
where  the  woman  need  not  keep  the  law  mentioned  (for  instance, 
if  the  child  was  taken  out  through  the  sides  by  means  of  instru- 
ments), or  if  the  woman  was  a  Gentile  on  the  day  of  giving 
birth  to  the  child  and  became  a  convert  to  Judaism  on  the  day 
following  (and  hence  need  not  observe  that  law),  the  child  need 
not  be  circumcised  just  on  the  eighth  day  (but  at  any  time),  as  it 
is  written  [ibid,  ibid.]:  "  If  a  woman  have  conceived  seed,  and 
born  a  male  child:  then  shall  she  be  unclean  seven  days,"  etc., 
etc.;  [ibid.  3] :  "  And  on  the  eighth  day  shall  the  flesh  of  his 
foreskin  be  circumcised."  Said  Abayi  to  him:  "What  about 
the  generations  before  the  Law  was  given  ?  The  women  knew 
nothing  of  the  law  of  uncleanness,  and  still  the  children  had  to 
be  circumcised  on  the  eighth  day  ?  "  Answered  R.  Assi :  "  Since 
the  Law  was  given,  a  new  Halakha  has  been  in  force."  Nay; 
this  is  not  so !  Have  we  not  learned,  that  if  a  child  was  taken 
through  the  side  of  a  woman,  or  if  it  had  two  foreskins,  R. 
Huna  and  R.  Hyya  bar  Rabh  entertained  different  opinions  as 
to  whether  it  should  be  circumcised  on  the  Sabbath  or  not  ?  one 
claimed  that  it  should,  and  the  other  that  it  should  not.  Now 
we  see  that  they  differed  only  as  to  a  desecration  of  the  Sab- 
bath, but  nothing  is  said  about  the  non-necessity  of  the  child's 
being  circumcised  on  the  eighth  day  ?  One  is  dependent  upon 
the  other.  (He  who  holds  that  the  Sabbath  should  be  violated, 
does  so  because  he  also  holds  that  the  child  must  be  circumcised 
on  the  eighth  day;  while  he  who  holds  that  the  Sabbath  must 
not  be  violated,  does  so  because  he  holds  that  such  a  child  need 
not  be  circumcised  on  the  eighth  day.) 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha :  Rabbon  Simeon  ben  Gama- 
liel said :  Every  human  child  that  has  lived  for  thirty  days  can- 
not be  called  a  miscarriage,  as  it  is  written  [Numbers  xviii.  16]  : 
"  And  those  that  are  to  be  redeemed  from  a  month  old  shalt  thou 
redeem  "  ;  and  any  young  of  an  animal  that  has  attained  the  age 
of  eight  days,   cannot  be  called  a  miscarriage,  as  it  is  written 


304  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

[Leviticus  xxii.  22] :  "  When  a  bullock,  or  a  sheep,  or  a  goat  is 
brought  forth,  then  shall  it  remain  seven  days  by  its  mother; 
and  from  the  eighth  day  and  henceforth  shall  it  be  favorably 
received,"  etc.  And  how  is  it,  if  the  child  has  not  yet  attained 
the  age  of  thirty  days,  is  it  still  a  doubtful  child  ?  How  then  is 
it  allowed  to  circumcise  any  child  on  the  Sabbath  ?  (perhaps  it  is 
a  miscarriage,  and  in  that  event  it  would  be  wrongful  to  inflict  a 
wound  in  vain).  Said  R.  Ada  bar  Ahabha:  "  We  may  do  so  at 
all  events.  If  it  is  a  regularly  born  child,  the  commandment  is 
fulfilled;  and  if  not,  no  wound  is  inflicted,  but  merely  a  piece  of 
flesh  is  cut." 

Now,  then,  we  have  learned  in  the  above  Boraitha,  that  if  it 
be  doubtful  whether  the  child  was  born  in  the  eighth  or  in  the 
seventh  month  the  Sabbath  must  not  be  violated  on  its  account. 
Why  should  this  be  so  ?  Let  it  be  circumcised  at  all  events.  If 
then  it  proves  to  be  a  regularly  born  child,  it  was  right  to  cir- 
cumcise it;  and  if  not,  no  labor  was  performed,  but  merely  an 
incision  in  the  flesh  was  made.  Said  Mar  the  son  of  Rabhina: 
"  I  and  R.  Nehumi  bar  Zacharias  have  explained  it  thus:  '  The 
child  should  be  circumcised,  but  the  injunction  of  the  above 
Boraitha  not  to  violate  the  Sabbath  refers  to  the  preparations 
which  ^re  necessary  for  circumcision,  and  this  is  in  accordance 
with  the  decree  of  R.  Eliezer. '  " 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question :  Do  the  rabbis  differ 
with  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel,  or  do  they  not?  If  they  do, 
does  the  Halakha  remain  according  to  R.  Simeon,  or  not  ? 
Come  and  hear  :  R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Samuel,  that 
the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel. 
Now  if  he  says  that  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Sim- 
eon, there  must  be  some  who  differ  with  R,  Simeon. 

Abayi  said  :  "  If  a  child  was  killed  by  accident,  either  through 
falling  off  a  roof  or  through  being  killed  by  a  lion  before  it  had 
lived  thirty  days,  all  agree,  that  it  must  be  presumed  that  it  was 
a  regularly  born  child.  A  point  of  difference  arises  concerning 
a  child  that  had  lived  less  than  thirty  days  and  during  its  life- 
time was  very  weak  and  merely  breathing.  Some  say  that  it 
was  a  miscarriage  and  others  that  it  was  a  regularly  born  child." 
What  difference  does  it  make  ?  It  makes  a  difference  where  the 
levirate  marriage  *  is  concerned.  (If  the  child  is  presumed  to 
be  a  regularly  born  child,  it  exempts  a  man  from  the  levirate 

*  Concerning  the  law  of  levirate  marriage,  see  Deut.  xxv.  5-1 1. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  305 

marriage;  but  if  it  is  presumed  to  be  a  miscarriage,  it  does  not 
exempt  a  man.) 

Let  us  see!  It  is  said  above,  that  if  the  child  die  by  acci- 
dent, all  agree,  that  it  is  a  regularly  born  child  ;  yet  we  know  that 
it  happened  to  R.  Papa,  and  R.  Huna  the  son  of  R.  Jehoshua, 
who  were  the  guests  of  R.  Idi  bar  Abin,  that  the  latter  prepared 
for  them  a  calf,  which  was  the  third  in  birth  of  its  mother,  in  the 
seventh  day  of  its  life,  and  they  said  to  him  :  "  If  ye  had  waited 
to  kill  this  calf  until  evening  we  would  eat  of  it  (because  it 
would  then  have  been  in  its  eighth  day) ;  but  now  we  will  not  eat 
of  it."  Hence  we  see,  that  although  this  was  a  healthy  calf  and 
met  its  death  violently,  they  regarded  it  as  doubtful  whether  it 
was  a  miscarriage  or  not.  Hence  say,  rather,  that  on  the  con- 
trary, if  the  child  was  weak  and  barely  breathing  prior  to  its 
death,  all  agree,  that  it  must  be  presumed  to  be  a  miscarriage; 
but  they  differ  as  to  a  child  which  had  met  its  death  by  accident. 
Some  say,  tha:  it  must  be  regarded  as  a  regularly  born  child,  and 
others,  that  it  was  a  miscarriage. 

The  son  of  R.  Dimi  bar  Joseph  had  a  child  born  to  him  which 
died  inside  of  thirty  days,  so  he  went  into  mourning  for  it. 
Said  his  father  to  him:  "  What  wouldst  thou  ?  Eat  delicacies* 
(that  thou  sittest  in  mourning)?"  And  he  answered :  "I  am 
positive  that  the  child  was  a  regularly  born  child." 

"  R.  Jehudah  permits  this  in  the  case  of  an  hermaphrodite.'' 
Said  R.  Shezbi  in  the  name  of  R.  Hisda:  "  Not  in  every  case 
does  R.  Jehudah  hold  an  hermaphrodite  to  be  a  male ;  for  if  we 
would  say  that  in  all  cases  he  considers  him  to  be  a  male,  the 
hermaphrodite  would  come  under  the  law  of  estimations  [Levit- 
icus xxvii,  2-15],  and  in  the  Tract  Erachim  (estimations)  we  may 
learn,  that  according  to  R.  Jehudah  he  is  exempt.  Why  is  he 
considered  a  male  as  concerns  circumcision  ?  because  it  is  written 
[Genesis  xvii,  10]:  "Every  man  child  among  you  shall  be  cir- 
cumcised "  (and  "  every''  includes  also  hermaphrodites). 

MISHNA:  If  one  have  two  children  to  be  circumcised,  one 
after  the  Sabbath  and  the  other  on  the  Sabbath,  and  through 
forgetfulness  circumcised  the  former  on  the  Sabbath,  he  is  cul- 
pable. If  one  of  the  children,  however,  was  to  be  circumcised 
on  the  day  before  Sabbath  and  the  other  on  the  Sabbath,  and 
through  forgetfulness  one  had  the  former  circumcised  on  the 

*  It  is  a  custom  amongst  Jews,  that  the  first  meal  eaten  by  a  mourner  after  the 
burial  of  his  dead  must  be  given  him  by  friends  or  strangers,  and  usually  some 
delicacy  is  brought  to  him. 


3o6  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

Sabbath,  R.  Eliezer  declares  him  liable  for  a  sin-offering  and  R. 
Jehoshua  declares  him  free. 

GEMARA:  R.  Huna  learns  the  Mishna  literally;  in  the 
first  case,  "  he  is  culpable."  R.  Jehudah,  however,  learns  to 
the  contrary,  that  "he  is  not  culpable."  R.  Huna  learns  "  he 
is  culpable,"  from  what  we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha;  viz.: 
Said  R.  Simeon  ben  Elazar:  "  R.  Eliezer  and  R.  Jehoshua  do 
not  differ  as  to  the  case  where  a  man  has  two  children  to  be  cir- 
cumcised, one  after  the  Sabbath  and  the  other  on  the  Sabbath, 
and  through  forgetfulness  circumcised  the  former  on  Sabbath. 
They  both  declare  him  culpable.  Their  point  of  difference  is, 
if  one  of  the  children  was  to  have  been  circumcised  on  the  day 
before  Sabbath  and  the  other  on  the  Sabbath,  and  through  for- 
getfulness the  former  was  circumcised  on  the  Sabbath,  the 
former  declares  him  culpable  and  the  latter  free.  Both  of  them 
derived  their  decrees  from  the  law  concerning  idolatry  (all  sin- 
offerings  are  based  upon  the  sin-offerings  incidental  to  the  laws 
of  idolatry).  R.  Eliezer  holds,  that  as  in  idolatry  so  also  it  is 
with  the  Sabbath.  If  the  commandment  is,  "  Thou  shalt  not 
do  so,"  and  the  man  did  so,  he  is  liable  for  a  sin-offering;  and 
R.  Jehoshua  says:  "  Here  it  is  different.  The  intention  was  to 
fulfil  a  commandment,  and  if  accidentally  it  was  not  done  he 
should  be  free." 

And  R.  Jehudah  learns  the  Mishna"  not  culpable,"  deriving 
his  support  from  the  following  Boraitha:  R.  Meir  said:  "  R. 
Ehezer  and  R.  Jehoshua  do  not  differ  as  to  the  case  where  a 
man  has  two  children  to  be  circumcised,  one  before  the  Sabbath 
and  the  other  on  the  Sabbath,  and  through  forgetfulness  circum- 
cised the  former  on  Sabbath.  They  both  declare  him  not  cul- 
pable. Their  point  of  difference  is,  if  one  of  the  children  was 
to  be  circumcised  on  the  day  after  Sabbath  and  the  other  on 
Sabbath,  and  through  forgetfulness  the  former  was  circumcised 
on  the  Sabbath,  R.  Eliezer  declares  him  culpable  and  R.  Je- 
hoshua declares  him  free.  Both  of  them  derived  their  decrees 
from  the  law  concerning  idolatry,  as  is  said  above." 

MISHNA:  A  child  may  be  (legally)  circumcised  on  the 
eighth,  ninth,  tenth,  eleventh,  or  twelfth  day  (after  its  birth), 
but  neither  before  nor  after.  How  so  ?  Usually  (it  may  be  cir- 
cumcised) on  the  eighth ;  one  born  at  (the  evening)  twihght,  on 
the  ninth ;  one  born  at  (the  evening)  twilight  before  Sabbath,  on 
the  tenth;  if  a  feast  day  follows  that  Sabbath  (it  may  be  circum- 
cised) on  the  eleventh ;  if  both  New  Year  feast-days  follow  that 


TRACT    SABBATH.  307 

Sabbath,  on  the  twelfth.  A  sick  child  must  not  be  circumcised 
until  it  is  thoroughly  recovered. 

GEMARA:  Said  Samuel:  "After  the  fever  has  left  the 
child,  seven  days  should  be  allowed  to  elapse  until  the  child  get 
well,  before  the  circumcision  is  performed."  The  schoolmen 
propounded  a  question :  Must  every  day  be  of  twenty-four 
hours'  duration,  or  may  the  last  of  the  seven  days  be  counted  if 
only  a  few  hours  have  passed  ?  Come  and  hear:  Luda  taught, 
the  last  day  of  the  child's  convalescence  is  more  important  than 
the  day  of  its  birth;  for  a  child  may  be  circumcised  on  the 
eighth  day  after  its  birth,  even  if  only  one  hour  of  that  day  be 
passed ;  but  the  seventh  day  of  its  convalescence  after  a  sick- 
ness must  be  one  of  fully  twenty-four  hours,  before  circumcision 
is  permitted. 

MISHNA:  The  following  principal  excrescences  (knobs) 
make  the  circumcision  invalid :  Flesh  that  covers  the  larger  part 
of  the  gland  (of  the  organ).  A  man  so  circumcised  must  not  (if 
he  be  a  priest)  partake  of  Terumah  (heave-offerings).  If  the 
child  be  very  fleshy  and  (such  imperfect  circumcision)  is  caused 
thereby,  the  knobs  must,  for  appearances'  sake,  be  cut  away. 
One  who  was  circumcised  without  having  had  the  skin  torn 
open,  is  considered  as  uncircumcised. 

GEMARA :  R.  Abbina  in  the  name  of  R.  Jeremiah  bar  Aba, 
quoting  Rabh,  said:  "  By  stating  '  flesh,  that  covers  the  larger 
part  of  the  gland,'  the  Mishna  means  to  say  the  '  upper  part  of 
the  gland.'  " 

"7/"  the  child  be  very  fleshy  J"  We  have  learned  in  a  Bo- 
raitha:  "  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel  said:  *  If  the  gland  of  the 
child  be  surrounded  by  a  fleshy  coating,  and  when  erect  the 
gland  appears  to  be  circumcised,  the  coating  need  not  be  cut 
away;  but  if  it  does  not  appear  to  be  circumcised,  the  coating 
should  be  cut  away.'  " 

* '  One  who  was  circumcised  without  having  had  the  skin  torn 
open, "  etc.  The  rabbis  taught :  The  benediction  to  be  pronounced 
by  the  circumciser  (before  performing  the  rite)  should  be  as  fol- 
lows: "  Praised  art  Thou,  Lord,  our  God,  King  of  the  Universe, 
who  hast  sanctified  us  with  Thy  commandments  and  hast  com- 
manded us  the  circumcision."  The  father  of  the  child  should 
pronounce  the  following  benediction  (in  the  interval  between  the 
circumcision  and  the  tearing  open  of  the  skin)  :  "  Who  hast  sanc- 
tified us  with  Thy  commandments  and  hast  commanded  us  to 
enter  the  child  into  the  covenant  of  Abraham  our  father."    The 


3oS  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

bystanders  must  respond:  "As  he  hath  been  entered  into  the 
covenant,  so  may  he  also  be  entered  into  the  Law,  into  the  bridal 
canopy,  and  into  good  deeds."  The  man  who  makes  the  bene- 
diction (over  the  goblet  of  wine)  should  say  as  follows  :  "  Blessed 
art  Thou,  etc.,  Avho  hast  sanctified  Thy  favored  one  (meaning  the 
patriarch  Isaac,  see  Genesis  xxii.  2)  even  in  the  womb  (as  it  is 
written  in  Genesis  xvii.  19 :  '  And  I  will  establish  my  covenant 
with  him  '),  who  hath  made  a  sign  in  his  body,  and  hath  sealed 
his  children  with  the  sign  of  the  holy  covenant.  Therefore  as 
a  reward  for  this  we  pray  Thee,  Thou  living  God,  to  command 
that  our  children  be  saved  from  the  grave  because  of  the  cove- 
nant that  is  sealed  in  our  flesh.  Blessed  art  Thou,  O  Lord,  who 
hast  made  the  covenant."  One  who  circumcises  proselytes 
must  say:  "  Blessed  art  Thou,  etc.,  and  hast  commanded  us  the 
circumcision."  The  one  who  pronounces  the  benediction  (over 
the  goblet)  must  say:  "  Blessed  art  Thou,  etc.,  and  hast  com- 
manded us  to  circumcise  the  proselytes,  and  to  draw  from  them 
blood  of  the  covenant.  For  were  it  not  for  the  blood  of  the 
covenant,  heavens  and  earth  would  not  exist,  as  it  is  written 
[Jeremiah  xxxiii.  25]  :  '  If  not  my  covenant  by  day  and  night, 
I  would  not  have  instituted  the  ordinances  of  heaven  and  earth.' 
Blessed  be  Thou,  O  Lord,  who  didst  make  the  covenant."  One 
who  circumcises  slaves  pronounces  the  same  prayer  as  is  used 
for  proselytes,  inserting  "  slaves  "  where  "  proselytes  "  is  used; 
and  the  one  making  the  benediction  does  likewise. 


CHAPTER   XX. 

REGULATIONS  CONCERNING   CERTAIN   ACTS   OF   LABOR   WHICH  MUST   BE 
PERFORMED    DIFFERENTLY    ON    A    SABBATH    AND    ON    A    FESTIVAL. 

MISHNA:  R.  EHezer  says:  One  may  stretch  a  wine-filter 
(of  cloth)  over  a  vessel  on  a  feast-day,  and  on  the  Sabbath  one 
may  pour  wine  into  it,  if  it  was  already  fastened  (to  the  vessel). 
The  sages  say :  One  must  not  stretch  it  (over  a  vessel)  on  a 
feast-day,  and  on  Sabbath  one  must  not  pour  (wine)  into  it,  but 
the  latter  act  is  allowed  on  a  feast-day. 

GEMARA:  How  is  it  possible  that  R.  Eliezer  should  decide, 
that  one  may  stretch  a  wine-filter,  etc.,  on  a  festival,  if  he  does 
not  even  allow  a  window-blind  to  be  added  to  a  temporary  tent, 
as  is  explained  by  Rabba  bar  bar  Hana  in  the  name  of  R. 
Johanan  [Chapter  XVH.,  p.  272].  In  that  case  he  does  not 
even  allow  the  addition  of  a  blind,  and  here  he  permits  the 
stretching  of  a  filter  to  commence  with  ?  R.  Eliezer  holds  as 
R.  Jehudah,  as  we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  There  is  no  dif- 
ference between  the  Sabbath  and  the  festival,  except  that  the 
preparation  of  food  is  permitted  on  the  latter.  R.  Jehudah, 
however,  even  permits  the  arrangements  for  the  preparation  of 
food.  What  arrangements  for  the  preparation  of  food  are  we 
aware  of,  that  R.  Jehudah  permits  ?  Such  as  cannot  be  made  at 
any  time  before  the  festival ;  but  did  we  hear  of  his  permitting 
the  arrangements  for  the  preparation  of  food  that  could  be  made 
before  the  festival,  to  be  made  on  the  feast-day  ?  In  this  respect 
R.  Eliezer  is  more  lenient  than  R.  Jehudah,  for  he  permits 
all  arrangements  for  the  preparation  of  food  to  be  made  on  the 
festival. 

"  The  sages  say :  One  must  not  stretch  it,"  etc.  The  school- 
men propounded  a  question  :  What  if  a  man  did  stretch  the 
filter  over  a  vessel  on  a  festival  ?  Is  he  culpable  ?  Said  Abayi : 
"  This  is  only  a  rabbinical  prohibition,  that  one  should  not  do  on 
a  festival  such  things  as  one  does  on  a  week-day." 

Abayi  collected  all  the  rabbinical  prohibitions  to  be  found  in 
the  Boraithas,  and  taught  as  follows:  A  leather  bag,  a  wine-filter, 

309 


3IO  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

a  baldachin,  and  a  folding-chair  as  used  in  the  city  of  Galin, 
must  not  be  spread;  but  if  one  does  so,  he  is  not  culpable. 
Tents,  however,  which  arc  permanent,  must  not  be  put  up,  and 
if  a  man  does  this  he  is  culpable.  One  may,  however,  set  up 
an  ordinary  bed,  a  chair,  a  tripod,  and  a  stool  with  impunity. 

"  One  must  ?iot  pour  wine  into  it,''  etc.  The  schoolmen 
asked:  "What  if  a  man  did  pour  wine  into  it?  Is  he  cul- 
pable?" Said  R.  Kahana:  "Yea;  he  is  liable  to  bring  a  sin- 
offering. "  R.  Shesheth  opposed  this:"  Have  ye  ever  seen  that 
R.  Eliezer  should  permit  a  certain  thing  to  be  done  to  com- 
mence with,  which  the  rabbis  hold  would  make  one  liable  for  a 
sin-offering  ?  "  R,  Joseph  interposed:  "  Why  not  ?  Have  we 
not  learned  (p.  1 14),  in  the  case  of  a  woman  who  went  out  with 
a  golden  ornament,  that  R.  Meir  held  her  liable  for  a  sin-ofTering 
and  R.  Eliezer  permitted  her  to  go  out  with  it  to  commence 
with  ?  "  Said  Abayi  to  him  :  "  Dost  thou  think  that  R.  Eliezer 
opposes  R.  Meir  in  the  above  passage  ?  Nay;  he  merely  opposes 
the  sages,  who  said  that  a  woman  must  not  go  out  wearing  the 
ornament,  but  if  she  do  so,  she  is  not  culpable ;  whereas  he  says, 
that  she  may  do  so  to  commence  with." 

How  should  a  man  be  warned  not  to  pour  wine  into  the 
filter  ?  {i.e.,  in  what  category  of  labor  is  that  act  to  be  classed, 
so  that  the  man  can  be  warned  that  he  is  performing  a  certain 
prohibited  principal  act  of  labor  ?*).  Rabba  said:  "  He  is  to  be 
warned  against  fruit-cleaning."  R.  Zera  said:  "Against  sift- 
ing." Said  Rabba:  "  It  seems  to  me  that  my  decision  is 
more  in  conformity  with  reason,  for  as  in  fruit-cleaning  the  good 
fruit  is  separated  from  the  bad,  so  it  is  also  in  this  case :  he  sepa- 
rates the  clean  wine  from  the  lees."  Said  R.  Zera:  "  It  seems 
to  me  that  my  decision  is  more  in  conformity  with  reason,  be- 
cause as  in  sifting  the  good  falls  to  the  bottom  and  the  bad 
remains  in  the  sieve,  so  it  is  also  in  this  case :  the  good  wine 
falls  into  the  vessel,  while  the  lees  remain  in  the  filter." 

Rami  the  son  of  Ezekiel  taught:  "  A  folded  garment  should 
not  be  spread  on  poles  to  serve  as  a  sun-shade ;  but  if  a  man  do 
this,  he  is  free.  If,  however,  a  string  or  a  hanger  was  already 
attached  to  the  garment  with  which  it  could  be  fastened  to  the 
poles,  this  may  be  done  to  commence  with." 

R.  Kahana  asked  of  Rabh :  "  What  is  the  law  regarding  a 
baldachin?"  and  he  answered:  "  Even  a  bed  is  not  permitted." 

*  See  Chapter  VII.,  note  to  page  138. 


TRACT   SABBATH.  311 

R.  Kahana  then  inquired:  "What  is  the  law  regarding  a 
bed?"  and  Rabh  answered:  "  Even  a  baldachin  is  allowed." 
"  What  is  the  law  regarding  a  bed  and  a  baldachin  ? "  "A  bed 
is  allowed  but  a  baldachin  is  not  allowed."  In  spite  of  this, 
there  is  no  difficulty.  In  not  permitting  even  a  bed,  Rabh  had 
reference  to  a  folding-bed  as  used  by  the  Karmanites,  and  where 
he  said,  "  Even  a  baldachin  is  allowed,"  he  had  reference  to  a 
baldachin  as  described  by  Rami  bar  Ezekiel;  i.e.,  one  which 
had  strings  attached  to  it.  In  saying,  "  A  bed  is  allowed  and  a 
baldachin  is  not  allowed,"  he  meant  to  say,  that  an  ordinary 
bed,  such  as  is  generally  used,  may  be  set  up,  but  a  baldachin, 
that  had  no  strings  or  hangers  attached,  must  not  be  set  up. 
Said  R.  Joseph :  "  I  have  seen  the  baldachins  in  the  house  of  R. 
Huna;  at  night  (on  Sabbath  eve)  they  were  folded  up  and  in  the 
morning  they  were  all  set  up." 

Rami  bar  Ezekiel  sent  to  R.  Huna  and  asked  him  to  impart 
to  him  some  of  the  good  sayings  of  Rabh,  two  concerning  the 
Sabbath  and  one  concerning  the  Law.  So  R.  Huna  sent  him 
the  following  sayings:  Concerning  what  we  have  learned  in  a 
Boraitha,  that  a  leather-bag  which  had  strings  already  attached 
may  be  spread  on  poles  on  Sabbath,  Rabh  said,  that  this  may 
be  done  jointly  by  two  men  but  not  by  one.*  Said  Abayi :  "  A 
baldachin  which  must  not  be  set  up  must  not  even  be  set  up 
by  the  joint  efforts  of  ten  men."  What  was  the  other  good  say- 
ing of  Rabh  concerning  Sabbath  ?  Concerning  what  we  have 
learned  in  a  Boraitha,  that  if  an  iron  stove  had  one  leg  missing 
it  may  be  handled,  but  if  two  legs  were  missing  it  must  not  be 
handled,  Rabh  said,  that  it  must  not  be  handled  even  if  one 
leg  was  missing,  as  a  precaution  lest  one  might  be  tempted  to 
fasten  the  missing  leg,  and  that  would  constitute  building. 
What  was  the  good  saying  of  Rabh  concerning  the  Law  ?  Rabh 
said :  There  will  be  a  time  when  the  Law  will  be  forgotten  by 
Israel,  as  it  is  written  [Deut.  xxviii.  59]  :  "  Then  will  the  Lord 
render  wonderful  thy  plagues,"  etc.,  and  I  could  not  under- 
stand what  is  meant  by  "  wonderful  plagues  "  ;  but  it  is  written 
[Isaiah  xxix.  14]:  "  Therefore,  behold,  I  will  do  yet  farther  a 
marvellous  work,  doing  wonder  on  wonder,  so  that  the  wisdom 
of  their  wise  men  shall  be  lost,  and  the  understanding  of  their 
prudent  men  shall  be  hidden." 

*  Rashi  remarks  that,  although  some  explanation  for  this  passage  was  ventured 
upon  by  the  Gaonim,  still  he  does  not  understand  it  himself,  and  hence  can  give  no 
satisfactory  explanation. 


312  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

The  rabbis  taught :  When  our  teachers  went  into  the  vine- 
yard at  Jamnia,  they  said  that  the  Law  would  be  forgotten  by 
Lsrael,  as  it  is  written  [Amos  viii.  ii]:  "  Behold,  days  are  com- 
ing, saith  the  Lord  Eternal,  when  I  will  send  a  famine  in  the 
land,  not  a  famine  for  bread,  nor  a  thirst  for  water,  but  to  hear 
the  words  of  the  Lord  " ;  and  [ibid.  12]  :  "  And  they  will  wan- 
der about  from  sea  to  sea,  and  from  the  north  even  to  the  east, 
they  will  roam  about  to  seek  the  word  of  the  Lord ;  but  they 
shall  not  find  it."  By  the  word  of  the  Lord  is  meant :  Halakha, 
the  end  of  exile  {i.e.,  the  coming  of  the  Messiah),  and  also  the 
prophecies.* 

In  another  Boraitha  we  have  learned :  R.  Simeon  ben  Jo'hai 
said :  "  May  God  forbid  that  the  Law  be  forgotten  by  Israel.  It 
is  written  [Deut.  xxxi.  21] :  '  For  it  shall  not  be  forgotten  out 
of  the  mouth  of  their  seed.'  How  then  can  the  previous  pas- 
sage, *  And  they  will  roam  about  to  seek  the  word  of  the  Lord, 
but  they  shall  not  find  it,'  be  verified  ?  It  means  they  shall  not 
find  a  perfect  Halakha  (which  shall  be  incontestable),  nor  a 
Mishna  (which  shall  be  beyond  refutation)  anywhere  on  earth." 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  If  thou  shouldst  live  in  a 
generation  in  which  there  is  much  trouble  (persecution),  go  and 
investigate  amongst  the  judges  of  Israel;  for  most  of  the  trouble 
that  happens  in  this  world  happens  only  on  account  (of  the  cor- 
ruption) of  the  judges,  as  it  is  written  [Micah  iii.  9-1 1]:  "  Hear 
this,  I  pray  you,  ye  heads  of  the  house  of  Jacob  and  ye  princes 
of  the  house  of  Israel,  that  abhor  justice  and  make  crooked  all 
that  is  straight.  They  build  up  Zion  with  blood-guiltiness  and 
Jerusalem  with  wrong;  her  heads  judge  for  bribes,  and  her 
priests  teach  for  reward,  and  her  prophets  divine  for  money,  and 
yet  will  they  lean  upon  the  Lord,"  etc.  They  are  all  wicked, 
and  yet  they  all  lean  upon  the  One  who  spoke  and  the  world  was 
created;  and  therefore  the  Lord  will  bring  upon  them  three 
troubles  for  the  three  sins  of  which  they  were  guilty  as  men- 
tioned above  (judging  for  bribes,  teaching  for  reward,  and  divin- 
ing for  money),  as  it  is  written  [ibid.  12] :  "  Therefore  for  your 
sake  shall  Zion  be  ploughed  up  as  a  field,  and  Jerusalem  shall 


*  Rashi  explains  the  above  passage  as  follows  :  That  by  the  word  of  the  Lord  is 
meant  Halakha,  may  be  derived  from  the  verse  [Deut.  v.  5],  "  To  announce  to  you 
the  word  of  the  Lord,"  which  is  synonymous  with  Halakha.  As  for  the  end  of  exile 
also  being  part  of  the  word  of  the  Lord,  I  do  not  know  what  verse  that  can  be  based 
on.  That  by  the  word  of  the  Lord  is  also  meant  the  prophecies,  can  be  inferred  from 
tiae  verse  [Hosea  i.  i]:  "  The  word  of  the  Lord  that  came  unto  Hosea." 


TRACT    SABBATH.  313 

become  ruinous  heaps,  and  the  mount  of  the  house,  forest-cov- 
ered high-places";  and  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  will  not 
permit  his  Shekhina  to  rest  again  amongst  Israel  until  the  cor- 
rupt judges  shall  be  removed  and  the  guardians  of  the  peace 
shall  be  abolished  from  Israel,  as  it  is  written  [Isaiah  i.  25  and 
26]  :  "  And  I  will  turn  my  hand  against  thee,  and  purge  away  as 
with  lye  thy  dross,  and  remove  all  thy  tin.  And  (then)  I  will 
restore  thy  judges  as  at  the  first,  and  thy  counsellors  as  at  the 
beginning." 

Ula  said:  "  Jerusalem  will  not  be  redeemed  except  through 
charity  (righteousness),  as  it  is  written  [Isaiah  i.  27]  :  '  Zion  shall 
be  redeemed  through  justice,  and  her  converts  through  righteous- 
ness.'"  R.  Papa  said:  When  the  proud  men  will  be  de- 
stroyed, then  also  will  the  men  who  slander  and  cause  us  to  be 
hated  be  destroyed,  as  it  is  written:  "  and  purge  away  as  with 
lye  thy  dross."  And  when  the  corrupt  judges  will  be  removed, 
the  bailiffs  will  also  become  extinct,  as  it  is  written  [Zephaniah 
iii.  15]:  "The  Lord  hath  removed  thy  punishment;  he  hath 
cleared  away  thy  enemy." 

Melai  in  the  name  of  R.  Eliezer  ben  R.  Simeon  said:  "  It  is 
written  [Isaiah  xiv.  5]  :  *  Broken  hath  the  Lord  the  staff  of  the 
wicked,  the  sceptre  of  the  rulers.'  The  staff  of  the  wicked 
refers  to  the  judges  who  made  of  themselves  a  staff  upon  which 
their  servants  (scribes)  should  lean  {i.e.,  they  gave  them  all  the 
opportunities  to  extort  money,  of  which  they  took  a  share). 
The  sceptre  of  rulers  refers  to  the  judges  who  made  their  rela- 
tives rulers." 

Mar  Zutra  said:  "The  above  verse  refers  to  the  teachers 
who  turn  out  ignorant  men  and  allow  them  licenses  to  be  judges 
(and  through  ignorance  they  were  incapable  of  judging  right- 
fully)." 

R.  Elazar  ben  Melai  said  in  the  name  of  Resh  Lakish :  "  It 
is  written  [Isaiah  lix.  3]  : '  For  your  hands  are  defiled  with  blood, 
and  your  fingers  with  iniquity :  your  lips  have  spoken  falsehood, 
your  tongue  uttereth  deception.'  '  Your  hands  are  defiled  with 
blood '  refers  to  the  judges,  '  your  fingers  with  iniquity '  refers 
to  the  scribes  of  the  judges,  '  your  lips  have  spoken  falsehood  ' 
refers  to  the  lawyers,  *  and  your  tongue  uttereth  deception  ' 
refers  to  the  litigants  themselves." 

R.  Melai  said  again  in  the  name  of  R.  Itz'hak  of  Magdala: 
"  From  the  day  that  Joseph  left  his  brethren,  he  tasted  not 
wine,  as  it  is  written  [Genesis  xlix.  26]  :  '  These  shall  be  on  the 


314  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

head  of  Joseph,  on  the  crown  of  the  head  of  him  that  was  sep- 
arated* from  his  brothers.'  "  R.  Jose  bar  Hanina  said,  that  the 
brothers  of  Joseph  also  did  not  taste  wine,  because  it  is  written 
[ibid.  xHii.  34] :  "  And  they  drank,  and  were  merry  with  him  " 
(because  it  says  "  with  him,"  the  inference  is,  that  without  him 
they  did  not  drink). 

R.  Melai  said  again:  "  The  reward  due  Aaron  for  what  is 
written  [Exod.  iv.  14]  :  'And  when  he  seeth,  he  will  be  glad  in 
his  heart,'  was  given  him  in  the  breastplate  of  judgment  "  [see 
ibid,  xxviii.  15]. 

The  inhabitants  of  the  city  of  Bashkar  sent  a  query  to  Levi, 
as  follows:  "  What  is  the  law  concerning  a  baldachin,  what  is 
the  law  concerning  flax  sown  in  a  vineyard,  does  it  come  under 
the  head  of  Kelaim  or  not,  and  what  is  the  law  concerning  one 
who  dies  on  a  festival  ?  "  While  the  messenger  was  on  his  way, 
Levi  died.  Said  Samuel  to  R.  Menasseh:  "  If  thou  wouldst 
be  wise,  answer  thou  these  queries."  So  R.  Menasseh  answered 
as  follows:  "As  for  a  baldachin,  we  have  investigated  on  all 
sides  and  found  no  permission  (for  setting  it  up).  As  for  flax 
sown  in  a  vineyard,  it  constitutes  a  case  of  Kelaim.  As  for  a 
man  that  had  died  on  a  festival,  the  corpse  should  be  kept  until 
after  the  second  day  of  the  festival,  and  it  should  not  be  in- 
terred, neither  by  Israelites  nor  by  Gentiles."  This  is  not  so! 
Rami  bar  Ezekiel  found  permission  for  a  baldachin  as  previously 
said  !  R.  Tarphon  decided  that  flax  sown  in  a  vineyard  does  not 
constitute  Kelaim,  and  Rabha  decreed,  that  a  corpse  may  be 
interred  on  the  first  day  of  a  festival  by  Gentiles  and  on  the  sec- 
ond day  even  by  Jews  ?  However,  because  the  men  of  Bashkar 
were  ignorant,  R.  Menasseh  gave  them  the  stricter  decrees,  lest 
they  take  advantage  of  the  more  lenient. 

R.  Abin  bar  R.  Huna  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Hama  bar 
Gurya:  "  A  man  can  wrap  himself  in  the  canopy  that  has  not 
been  fastened  to  the  poles,  together  with  its  fringes,  and  go  out 
into  public  ground  with  impunity."  In  what  respect  does  this 
decision  differ  from  that  of  R.  Huna,  who  said  in  the  name  of 
Rabh,  that  one  who  went  out  into  public  ground  wearing  a 
Talith  (toga)  without  Tzitzith  (show-threads)  is  culpable  and 
liable  for  a  sin-offering  ?  In  the  case  of  a  Talith,  the  show- 
threads,  being  the  most   important   part   of  that  garment,  are 


*  "  Separated"  is  expressed  by  the  word  Nazir,  which  means  also  one  who  has 
vowed  to  drink  no  wine. 


TRACT   SABBATH.  315 

valuable,  and  without  them  the  Talith  is  simply  a  burden ; 
whereas  the  fringes  of  a  canopy  are  not  an  essential  part  of  the 
canopy,  and  having  used  the  latter  for  a  garment  it  may  be  worn 
even  with  fringes. 

Rabba  bar  R.  Huna  said:  "  A  man  may  with  cunning  stretch 
a  wine-filter  over  a  vessel  and  say,  that  he  intends  to  use  it  as  a 
receptacle  for  pomegranates,  but  when  it  is  already  stretched  he 
may  filter  wine  through  it."  Said  R.  Ashi :  "  He  may  do  this 
only  if  he  had  previously  placed  pomegranates  in  the  filter."  In 
what  respect  does  this  decision  differ  from  the  following  Bo- 
raitha:  During  the  intermediate  days  of  a  festival  (either  Pass- 
over or  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles)  a  man  may  brew  beer  for  con- 
sumption on  those  days  but  not  for  use  on  other  days,  be  it 
beer  made  of  dates  or  of  barley;  and  although  he  have  stale 
beer  still  on  hand,  he  may  with  cunning  brew  new  beer  and 
drink  it.  (Should  he  have  any  left  over  he  may  keep  it  for  other 
days ;  hence  we  see  that  it  is  not  necessary  to  dissemble  by 
doing  something  else  before  performing  the  act  really  intended.) 
In  the  latter  case  it  is  not  known  whether  the  man  have  any 
stale  beer  on  hand  or  not,  and  hence  it  might  be  presumed  that 
he  has  none  and  must  brew  more ;  but  in  the  former  case,  when 
the  wine-filter  is  stretched  and  wine  is  being  immediately  filtered 
through  it,  the  presumption  would  be  that  it  was  stretched  for 
that  purpose  only. 

Said  the  disciples  to  R.  Ashi:  "  We  would  call  the  attention 
of  the  master  to  this  young  scholar,  R.  Huna  bar  Hyvan  or 
Heluvan  by  name,  who  takes  the  clove  of  garlic  and  stops  up  a 
hole  in  a  wine-barrel  with  it,  saying,  that  he  intends  merely  to 
preserve  the  clove  of  garlic.  He  also  goes  and  lies  down  on  a 
ferry,  presumably  to  sleep ;  in  the  meantime  he  is  ferried  across 
the  river,  and  on  the  other  side  he  watches  his  fields,  saying, 
however,  that  he  merely  intended  to  sleep."  Answered  R. 
Ashi :  "  Ye  speak  of  cunning  (trickery).  All  the  acts  mentioned 
by  you  are  prohibited  by  rabbinical  laws  only,  and  in  the  case  of 
a  scholar,  there  is  no  danger  that  he  will  commit  them  publicly 
(without  resorting  to  cunning)." 

MISHNA:  One  may  pour  water  on  yeast  in  order  to  thin 
the  latter;  and  one  may  filter  wine  through  a  cloth  or  an  Egyp- 
tian wine-basket.  One  may  put  a  beaten  egg  in  a  mustard 
sieve.  One  may  also  make  honey-wine  on  Sabbath.  R.  Jehu- 
dah  says:  "On  Sabbath  this  maybe  done  only  in  a  cup,  on 
feast-days  even  in  a  lug  (pitcher),  and  on  the  intermediate  days 


3i6  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

even  in  a  barrel."  R.  Zadok  says:  "  At  all  times  it  should  be 
made  according  to  the  number  of  guests." 

GEMARA:  Zera  said:  "A  man  may  pour  clear  wine  or 
clear  water  into  a  filter  with  impunity."  May  clear  wine  only, 
and  not  dimmed  wine,  be  poured  into  a  filter  ?  Have  we  not 
learned,  that  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel  said:  "A  man  may  stir 
up  a  cask  of  wine,  with  the  lees,  on  the  Sabbath  and  pour  it 
through  a  filter  with  impunity"?  Zera  explained  the  decree  of 
R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel  to  the  effect,  that  the  latter  spoke  of 
wine  that  was  just  being  pressed,  when  it  is  customary  to  drink 
the  wine  with  the  lees  (hence  the  wine  is  not  improved,  as  it  can 
be  drunk  without  filtering). 

"  One  may  filter  wine  through  a  cloth.''  R.  Simi  b.  Hyya 
said :  "  Providing  the  cloth  is  not  turned  into  a  funnel  (that  the 
cloth  should  not  subsequently  be  wrung)." 

*'  An  Egyptian  zvine-basket."  Said  R.  Hyya  bar  Ashi  in  the 
name  of  Rabh :  "  Providing  the  wine-basket  is  not  lifted  above 
the  bottom  of  the  vessel  to  the  height  of  one  span." 

"  One  may  put  a  beaten  egg  in  a  mustard  sieve.''  R.  Jacob 
Kar'hah  explained  this  as  follows  :  "  Because  the  yolk  is  used 
only  for  coloring;  the  white  of  the  Q^<g  is  nevertheless  as  much 
an  article  of  food  as  the  yolk  (hence  no  sifting  takes  place)." 

It  was  taught :  Mustard  which  had  been  prepared  before 
Sabbath  may  be  ground  on  the  Sabbath,  either  by  hand  or  with 
a  vessel.  Honey  may  also  be  placed  in  the  mustard  on  Sabbath  ; 
it  must  not  be  thoroughly  mixed,  however,  but  merely  stirred. 
Cresses  which  had  been  cut  up  before  the  Sabbath  may  be 
mixed  with  oil  and  vinegar  on  the  Sabbath,  and  one  may  also 
add  mint ;  it  must  not  be  thoroughly  mixed,  however,  but 
merely  stirred.  Garlic  which  had  been  ground  before  the  Sab- 
bath may  be  mixed  with  broad-beans  and  peas,  but  must  not  be 
ground  together;  mint  may  also  be  added.  Said  Abayi :  "  We 
see,  that  mint  is  good  for  the  spleen." 

"  One  may  make  honey-wine  on  the  Sabbath."  The  rabbis 
taught:  "  One  may  make  honey-wine  on  the  Sabbath,  but  not 
an  oil-wine  salve."  The  difference  between  honey-wine  and  oil- 
wine  salve  is  that  the  former  is  made  of  honey,  wine,  and  pep- 
per, while  the  latter  is  made  of  old  wine,  clear  water,  and  aro- 
matic balsam  to  be  used  as  a  lotion  after  a  bath. 

Said  R.  Joseph:  "  Once  I  went  with  Mar  Uqba  to  a  bath- 
house. When  we  came  out,  he  gave  me  a  cup  of  wine  which, 
when  drinking,  I  felt  all  over  from  the  roots  of  my  hair  to  the 


TRACT   SABBATH.  317 

nails  of  my  feet ;  and  had  he  given  me  another,  I  am  afraid  that 
the  reward  due  me  in  the  world  to  come  would  have  been  less- 
ened in  proportion."  Mar  Uqba  drank  this  wine  everyday  ? 
He  was  accustomed  to  it. 

MISHNA:  One  must  not  put  laserpitium  in  tepid  water 
for  the  purpose  of  softening  the  former,  but  one  may  put  it  in 
vinegar.  One  must  not  soak  bran  nor  grind  it,  but  may  put  it 
in  a  sieve  or  in  a  basket.  One  must  not  sift  feed-straw  through 
a  winnow,  nor  lay  it  in  a  high  place  so  that  the  chaff  fall  out, 
but  one  may  take  it  up  in  a  winnow  and  then  pour  it  into  the 
crib. 

GEMARA:  The  schoolmen  asked:  "  What  if  one  did  put 
laserpitium  in  tepid  water?"  Said  Abayi :  "This  is  only  a 
rabbinical  prohibition,  that  it  should  not  be  done  as  on  a  week- 
day. 

R.  Johanan  asked  of  R.  Yanai:  "  Is  it  allowed  to  put  laser- 
pitium in  cold  water  (on  Sabbath)  ?"  and  he  answered:  "  It  is 
not."  Said  R.  Johanan:  "We  have  learned  in  the  Mishna, 
that  it  is  not  allowed  to  put  it  in  tepid  water,  but  in  cold  water 
it  should  be  allowed."  Answered  R.  Yanai:  (If  thou  askest 
me  concerning  a  Mishna)  what  difference  is  there  between  me 
and  thee  ?  The  Mishna  is  according  to  the  opinion  of  one  man, 
and  the  Halakha  does  not  prevail  according  to  his  opinion,  as  we 
have  learned  in  a  Tosephta:  Laserpitium  must  not  be  put  in 
either  cold  or  tepid  water.  R.  Jose  said :  "  It  is  not  allowed  to 
put  it  in  tepid  water,  but  it  maybe  put  in  cold  water."  For 
what  purpose  is  it  used  ?     For  a  heavy  feeling  in  the  chest. 

R.  Aha  bar  Joseph  had  a  heavy  feeling  in  the  chest,  so  he 
came  to  Mar  Uqba,  and  was  told  to  drink  laserpitium  to  the 
weight  of  three  shekels  in  three  days.  He  drank  some  on  Thurs- 
day and  Friday,  and  on  Sabbath  he  came  to  the  house  of  learn- 
ing to  inquire  whether  he  might  drink  it.  He  was  told,  that  the 
disciples  of  Ada,  others  say  of  Mar  bar  R.  Ada,  taught,  that 
one  may  drink  even  a  Kabh  or  two  Kabhs  with  impunity.  He 
then  said  to  them:  "  I  am  not  asking  whether  I  may  drink  it. 
That  I  know  is  allowed,  but  I  should  like  to  know  whether  I 
may  put  the  laserpitium  in  water  in  order  to  drink  it.  How 
shall  I  do?"  Said  R.  Hyya  bar  Abin  to  them:  "The  same 
thing  happened  to  me,  so  I  went  to  R.  Ada  bar  Ahabha  and 
asked  him,  but  he  did  not  know;  so  I  asked  R.  Huna,  who 
said,  that  Rabh  decided  that  first  it  should  be  put  in  cold  water 
and  then  it  may  be  put  in  warm  water." 

VOL.  II. — 9 


3i8  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

R.  A'ha  bar  Joseph  leaned  on  the  shoulders  of  his  nephew, 
R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak,  and  went  out  into  the  street,  and  told 
him,  when  they  came  to  the  house  of  R.  Safra,  to  lead  him  in. 
When  they  got  there,  they  went  in,  and  R.  A'ha  asked  of  R. 
Safra:  "Maya  shirt  that  had  been  laundered  too  stiffly  be 
rubbed  and  softened  by  hand  on  the  Sabbath  ?  Shall  we 
assume,  that  it  is  only  intended  to  soften  the  shirt  and  is  there- 
fore permissible,  or  that  it  is  intended  also  to  bleach  it  and  is 
hence  prohibited  ?"  R.  Safra  answered,  that  it  might  be  done, 
and  asked  him  :  "  Why  dost  thou  ask  about  a  shirt,  why  not  ask 
also  about  a  turban?"  "I  have  already  asked  concerning  a 
turban  of  R.  Huna,  and  he  said,  that  it  is  not  permitted." 
"  Why,  then,  didst  thou  come  to  ask  about  a  shirt  ?  Thou 
couldst  have  inferred,  from  the  turban,  that  the  other  was  also 
not  permitted  ?"  Answered  R.  A'ha:  "  A  turban  is  bleached 
by  unfolding  and  rubbing,  but  a  shirt  is  not." 

R.  Hisda  said:  "  If  a  shirt  had  been  hung  up  to  dry  by 
means  of  a  stick  drawn  through  the  armholes,  it  should  be  taken 
down  from  the  stick,  but  the  stick  should  not  be  taken  down 
alone  (because  the  stick  is  not  a  vessel  and  hence  must  not  be 
handled)."  Said  Rabha  :  "  If  the  stick  was  one  that  may  be  used 
by  a  weaver,  it  may  be  taken  down  (because  it  is  regarded  as  a 
vessel)." 

R.  Hisda  said  again:  "A  bundle  of  herbs,  if  suitable  foi 
cattle-food,  may  be  handled  on  the  Sabbath.  If  not,  it  must 
not  be  handled."  Said  R.  Hyya  bar  Ashi  in  the  name  of  Rabh  : 
"  Dried  salt  meat  may  be  handled  on  Sabbath  (because  it  can 
be  eaten  uncooked),  but  dried  salt  fish  must  not  (because  it  can- 
not be  eaten  uncooked)." 

R.  Hisda  said  again:  "  A  man  who  attends  school,  and  has 
not  sufficient  bread,  should  not  eat  herbs,  because  it  creates 
hunger.  I  myself  have  never  eaten  herbs,  neither  when  I  was 
poor  nor  when  I  was  rich.  When  I  was  poor  I  did  not  want  to 
stimulate  my  appetite,  and  when  I  was  rich  I  rather  ate  meat 
and  fish  in  place  of  herbs."  Again  he  said:  "  A  young  pupil 
who  lacks  food  should  not  eat  a  little  at  a  time.  He  should 
wait  until  he  can  accumulate  sufficient  for  a  hearty  meal,  and 
th^n  eat.  When  I  was  poor  I  never  ate  until  I  could  put  my 
hand  in  the  basket  and  find  sufficient  to  satisfy  my  hunger." 

The  same  R.  Hisda  said  to  his  daughters :  "  Be  chaste  in  the 
eyes  of  your  husbands.  Do  not  go  about  eating  in  the  presence 
of  your  husbands.     Do  not  eat  herbs  at  night  (for  fear  of  bad 


TRACT   SABBATH. 


319 


breath).  Do  not  eat  dates  at  night.  Do  not  drink  beer  at  night, 
and  use  not  the  same  toilet  that  men  do.  When  some  one 
knocks  at  your  door,  do  not  ask  '  Who  is  it  ?  *  in  the  masculine, 
but  in  the  feminine." 

One  must  not  sift  feed-straw  through  a  winnow. ' '  This 
Mishna  is  not  in  accordance  with  the  opinion  of  the  Tana  of  the 
following  Boraitha:  R.  Eliezer  ben  Jacob  said:  "A  winnow 
must  not  be  touched  at  all." 

MISHNA:  One  may  clean  out  (the  crib)  for  the  (stalled)  ox 
and  throw  (the  superfluous  fodder)  over  the  side,  so  that  it  does 
not  become  unclean,  so  says  R.  Dosa.  The  sages  declare  this 
to  be  prohibited.  One  may  remove  the  fodder  in  front  of  one 
animal  and  place  it  before  another,  on  the  Sabbath. 

GEMARA:  The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question:  Do  the 
sages  dissent  from  the  first  part  of  R.  Dosa's  decree,  from  the 
last  part,  or  from  both  ?  Come  and  hear:  "  We  have  learned 
in  a  Boraitha : '  The  sages  said :  "  Neither  one  nor  the  other  may 
be  thrown  over  the  side."'"  Said  R.  Hisda:  "The  sages 
differ  with  R.  Dosa  only  when  the  crib  was  a  separate  vessel, 
but  if  it  was  part  of  the  stall  and  fixed  to  the  ground,  all  agree 
that  it  is  prohibited  to  clean  it  out." 

One  may  remove  the  fodder  from  in  front  of  one  animal, ' ' 
etc.  In  one  Boraitha  we  learned,  that  one  may  remove  the  fod- 
der from  cattle  with  healthy  snouts  and  place  it  before  cattle 
with  diseased  snouts ;  and  in  another  Boraitha  we  learned  the 
contrary,  that  fodder  may  be  removed  from  cattle  with  diseased 
snouts  and  placed  before  cattle  with  healthy  snouts.  Said 
Abayi:  "According  to  both  Boraithas,  the  fodder  of  an  ass 
may  be  placed  before  an  ox,  but  the  fodder  of  an  ox  must  not 
be  placed  before  an  ass.  The  first  Boraitha  refers  to  fodder 
placed  before  an  ass  who  does  not  emit  phlegm  from  the  mouth, 
and  which  may  be  placed  before  a  cow  who  does  emit  phlegm ; 
and  the  other  Boraitha,  which  permits  the  placing  of  fodder  of 
animals  with  bad  snouts,  also  refers  to  an  ass,  and  calls  the  snout 
of  an  ass  bad  (diseased)  because  he  feeds  on  all  manner  of 
things,  like  thistles,  etc.  The  cow  is  referred  to  as  having  a 
healthy  snout  because  she  is  very  particular  as  to  what  she 
feeds  on  (hence  the  two  Boraithas  do  not  differ)." 

MISHNA:  Straw  on  a  bed  must  not  be  shaken  up  with  the 
hand,  but  it  may  be  moved  with  the  body.  If  it  be  designed  for 
fodder,  or  a  pillow  or  cloth  lie  over  it,  it  may  be  shaken  up  by 
hand.      A    clothes-press  which    is    kept  in  the  house  may  be 


320  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

opened,  but  must  not  be  used  for  pressing.  The  clothes- 
presses  of  the  professional  washers  must  not  be  touched.  R. 
Jehudah  says:  "  If  the  press  was  partly  open  before  the  Sab- 
bath, it  may  be  entirely  opened  and  drawn  out  (others  say,  the 
clothes  may  be  drawn  out)." 

GEMARA:  R.  Jehudah  said:  "It  is  permitted  to  triturate 
pepper  seed  with  the  handle  of  a  knife  one  by  one,  but  not  two 
together  (on  Sabbath)."  But  Rabha  said,  that  as  a  man  usu- 
ally triturates  pepper  in  a  mortar  on  a  week-day,  he  may  on 
Sabbath  triturate  as  many  together  as  he  chooses  with  the  handle 
of  a  knife. 

R.  Jehudah  said  again:  "(On  the  Sabbath)  a  man  who 
bathes  should  first  dry  himself  standing  in  the  water  and  then 
go  out ;  otherwise  he  carries  water  into  unclaimed  ground  for 
four  ells."  If  that  is  so,  what  about  the  man  going  into  the 
water  ?  By  entering  he  pushes  the  water  forward  four  ells  (into 
the  lake  or  river)  by  mere  motion  ?  Motion  has  not  been  pro- 
vided for  in  the  prohibitions  of  unclaimed  ground. 

Said  Abayi,  according  to  another  version  R.  Jehudah:  "  If 
a  man  stepped  into  loam,  he  should  wipe  his  feet  on  the  ground 
and  not  on  a  wall."  But  Rabha  said:  "  Why  should  he  not  do 
that,  because  it  might  be  presumed  that  he  plasters  the  wall  and 
is  engaged  in  building  ?  Nay;  this  is  not  ordinary  building  (but 
more  like  field-work).  On  the  contrary:  If  he  wipe  his  feet  on 
the  ground  he  may  perchance  smoothen  out  an  incavation, 
hence  he  should  rather  wipe  his  feet  on  the  wall.  For  the 
same  reason,  he  should  not  wipe  his  feet  on  the  side  of  an  inca- 
vation, lest  he  smoothen  it  out." 

Rabha  said  again:  "  One  should  not  cork  a  bottle  with  a 
piece  of  cotton  or  cloth,  lest  he  wring  it."  R.  Kahana  said: 
"  The  dirt  on  a  garment  should  be  removed  by  rubbing  the  cloth 
on  the  inside  and  not  on  the  outside,  lest  it  seem  like  washing." 
R.  Abuha  in  the  name  of  R.  Elazar,  quoting  R.  Yanai,  said : 
"  One  may  scrape  off  dirt  on  an  old  shoe,  but  not  a  new  one. 
With  what  should  it  be  scraped  ofi  ?  With  the  back  of  a  knife," 
said  R.  Abuha.  Said  a  certain  old  man  to  him:  "  Withdraw 
thy  teaching  before  that  of  R.  Hyya:  One  must  not  scrape  off 
dirt  on  an  old  nor  on  a  new  shoe.  One  must  also  not  rub  his 
foot  with  oil,  while  it  is  still  in  the  shoe.  He  may,  however, 
rub  his  foot  with  oil  and  then  put  on  his  shoe  or  his  sandal. 
He  may  also  anoint  his  whole  body  with  oil  and  lie  down  on  a 
skin,  although  the  skin  is  benefited  by  the  oil."     Said  R.  Hisda: 


TRACT   SABBATH.  321 

"  Providing  the  oil  dripping  from  the  body  on  to  the  skin  is  only 
sufficient  to  polish  the  skin,  but  if  there  is  enough  to  soften  the 
skin  one  must  not  lie  down  on  it." 

The  rabbis  taught :  A  small  man  should  not  wear  a  large 
shoe  (lest  it  fall  off  and  he  be  forced  to  carry  it  on  the  Sabbath). 
He  may,  however,  wear  a  large  shirt  (as  there  is  no  fear  of  his 
taking  that  off  and  carrying  it).  A  woman  should  not  go  out 
with  a  torn  shoe  on  the  Sabbath  (lest  she  be  laughed  at  and 
carry  the  shoe).  She  also  must  not  accept  Chalitza  in  such  a 
shoe;  but  if  she  did  so,  the  Chalitza  is  valid.  She  also  should 
not  wear  a  new  shoe,  that  she  had  not  tried  on  before  the  Sab- 
bath (lest  it  be  too  large  and  she  take  it  off  and  carry  it).  Such 
is  the  explanation  of  Bar  Qappara. 

In  one  Boraitha  we  have  learned,  that  one  may  remove  the 
shoe  of  a  statue,  while  in  another  we  were  taught  that  it  must 
not  be  removed.  This  presents  no  difficulty.  The  one  Borai- 
tha is  in  accordance  with  the  opinion  of  the  rabbis,  who  differ 
with  R.  Eliezer,  while  the  other  is  in  accordance  with  the  opin- 
ion of  R.  Eliezer;  as  we  have  learned  in  another  Boraitha:  R. 
Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Eliezer,  that  if  the  shoe  was 
loose  and  easily  removed  it  might  be  taken  off. 


CHAPTER   XXI. 

REGULATIONS  CONCERNING  THE  POURING  OUT  OF  WINE  FROM  VES- 
SELS COVERED  WITH  A  STONE  (WHICH  MUST  NOT  BE  LIFTED), 
AND    THE    CLEARING    OFF    OF    CRUMBS,  ETC.,    FROM    THE    TABLE. 

MISHNA :  One  may  lift  up  a  (petted)  child,  that  has  a  stone 
in  its  hand,  also  a  basket  in  which  there  is  a  stone ;  one  may 
also  handle  unclean  Therumah  (heave-offerings),  together  with 
clean  and  with  ordinary  grain.  R.  Jehudah  saith :  "  One  may 
also  take  out  Therumah  from  mixed  grain  in  proportion  of  one 
to  the  hundred." 

GEMARA:  Rabha  said:  "  If  a  man  carried  out  a  child  to 
whose  neck  a  purse  of  money  was  fastened,  he  is  culpable  of 
carrying  the  purse ;  but  if  he  carried  out  the  corpse  of  a  child 
which  had  a  purse  of  money  fastened  to  it,  he  is  free."  Why  is 
the  man  culpable  in  the  first  instance,  for  the  carrying  of  the 
purse  and  not  for  carrying  the  child  ?  He  holds  with  R.  Nathan, 
who  said,  that  a  living  thing  carries  itself.  Why  not  say,  that 
the  purse  is  an  accessory  to  the  child  ?  Have  we  not  learned  in 
a  Mishna  (p.  182),  that  if  a  man  carried  out  a  person  on  a  litter 
he  is  not  culpable  of  carrying  even  the  litter,  because  it  is  of  no 
consequence  to  the  person  ?  A  litter  is  regarded  as  of  no  conse- 
quence to  the  person,  but  a  purse  is  not  held  to  be  part  of  a 
child.  Why,  in  the  second  instance,  is  the  man  not  culpable 
for  carrying  the  corpse  of  the  child  ?  Rabha  holds,  with  R. 
Simeon,  that  every  labor  which  is  not  performed  for  its  own 
sake  does  not  make  a  person  culpable  (and  he  is  not  culpable 
for  carrying  the  purse,  because  in  his  sorrow  he  does  not  think 
of  the  purse  that  the  child  was  wont  to  play  with). 

An  objection  was  made  (to  Rabha's  teaching  by  virtue  of  the 
above  Mishna) :  One  may  lift  up  a  child  with  a  stone  in  its  hand  ? 
The  disciples  of  R.  Yanai  explained  this  as  follows:  "  A  child 
is  referred  to  that  yearns  for  its  father,  and  if  it  were  not  carried 
it  would  become  sick."  The  stone  is  no  hindrance  to  its  being 
carried.  If  that  is  the  case,  why  is  a  stone  mentioned  ?  why  not 
money  ?     Did  not  Rabha  say,  that  the  child  may  be  carried  if  it 

322 


TRACT    SABBATH.  323 

have  a  stone  in  its  hand,  but  not  money  ?  That  is  simple.  If 
the  stone  fall  to  the  ground  the  father  will  not  pick  it  up,  but  if 
money  falls  he  will  pick  it  up.  We  have  been  taught  by  a  Borai- 
tha  in  support  of  Rabha:  If  one  carry  his  clothes,  folded,  on  his 
back,  or  his  sandals  or  his  rings  in  his  hand,  he  is  culpable ;  if  he 
wear  them,  however,  he  is  free.  If  he  carry  out  a  man  dressed 
in  clothes,  sandals,  and  rings,  he  is  also  free;  but  if  he  carried 
the  clothes,  sandals,  or  rings  alone,  he  would  be  culpable. 

"A  basket  in  which  there  is  a  stone,''  etc.  Why  should  a 
man  not  be  culpable  for  carrying  it  ?  Is  not  the  basket  a  basis 
for  a  prohibited  thing  ?  Said  R.  Hyya  bar  Ashi  in  the  name  of 
Rabha:  "  Here  a  basket  is  spoken  of  which  is  broken,  and 
where  the  stone  fills  in  the  gap,  making  the  basket  whole." 

One  may  also  handle  unclean  heave-offeri?igs."  Said  R. 
Hisda:  "When  may  unclean  heave-offerings  be  handled?  If 
the  clean  heave-offering  be  at  the  bottom  and  the  unclean  on 
top,  the  unclean  may  be  removed ;  but  if  the  clean  be  on  top,  it 
may  be  removed,  and  the  unclean  must  remain  untouched."  If 
the  unclean  be  on  top,  let  it  be  tl\rown  off  until  the  clean  is 
reached!  Answered  R.  Ilai,  Rabh  said:  "  Here  fruit  is  spoken 
of,  that  would  be  spoiled  by  being  thrown  off." 

An  objection  was  made:  We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha: 
"  Unclean  heave-offerings  may  be  handled  with  clean  and  with 
ordinary  grain ;  it  makes  no  difference  where  it  lies :  on  the  top 
or  at  the  bottom."  This  is  a  refutation  of  R.  Hisda?  R. 
Hisda  might  say,  that  our  Mishna  treats  of  a  heave-offering  that 
is  needed  for  food,  while  the  Boraitha  treats  of  a  heave-offering 
when  the  space  it  occupies  is  needed.  What  impels  R.  Hisda 
to  explain  the  Mishna  in  that  manner?  Said  Rabha:  "  From 
the  latter  part  of  the  Mishna  it  seems  to  be  in  the  sense  ex- 
plained by  him,  for  that  part  of  the  Mishna  says,  that  if  money 
lie  on  a  bolster,  the  bolster  may  be  turned  so  that  the  money 
shall  fall  down ;  and  Rabba  bar  bar  Hana  in  the  name  of  R. 
Johanan  explained,  that  such  is  the  case  only  if  the  bolster 
itself  be  needed ;  but  if  the  space  occupied  by  the  bolster  is 
required,  one  may  lift  the  bolster,  with  the  money,  and  deposit 
it  elsewhere.  Now,  if  this  part  of  the  Mishna  refers  to  the 
demand  for  the  object  itself,  the  first  part  does  likewise." 

' '  R.  Jehudah  saith  :  '  One  may  take  Therumah  from  mixed 
grain  in  proportion  of  one  to  the  hundred.'  "  How  can  this  be 
done  ?  In  doing  it,  one  would  make  a  useless  thing  useful,  and 
that  is  not  permitted  ?     R.  Jehudah  holds  with  R.  Simeon  ben 


324  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

Elazar,  who  declares,  that  one  may  look  upon  one  side  of  a 
mixed-grain  pile  and  consider  it  Therumah,  and  eat  from  the 
other.  How  can  it  be  said,  however,  that  R.  Jehudah  holds 
with  R.  Simeon  ben  Elazar,  for  have  we  not  learned  in  a  Borai- 
tha,  that  they  difTer  on  this  question,  the  former  holding  that  one 
may  take  a  measure  of  grain  from  the  pile,  of  one  to  the  hun- 
dred, set  it  aside  as  Therumah,  and  use  the  remainder,  while  the 
other  says,  that  one  should  look  upon  one  side  of  it  and  eat 
from  the  other  ?  R.  Jehudah  is  even  more  lenient  ;  for  he  per- 
mits all  of  it  to  be  used  after  a  measure  had  been  set  aside, 
while  R.  Simeon  permits  only  part  of  it  to  be  used. 

MISHNA:  If  a  stone  lie  at  the  opening  of  a  barrel,  the 
barrel  may  be  bent  over,  so  that  the  stone  fall  down.  If  the 
barrel  stand  amongst  other  barrels,  it  may  be  lifted  and  then 
bent  over,  in  order  that  the  stone  fall  down.  If  money  lie  on  a 
bolster,  the  bolster  may  be  turned,  so  that  the  money  fall  down. 
If  dirt  be  found  on  the  bolster,  it  maybe  cleaned  off  with  a  rag; 
and  if  the  bolster  be  of  leather,  water  may  be  poured  on  it 
until  the  dirt  is  removed. 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Huna  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  "The 
Mishna  refers  to  a  case  where  the  stone  lying  at  the  opening  of 
the  barrel  was  left  there  by  accident.  If  it  was  placed  there 
purposely,  the  barrel  becomes  a  basis  to  a  prohibited  thing  and 
must  not  be  handled." 

"  If  the  barrel  stand  amongst  other  barrels,"  etc.  Who  is  the 
Tana  who  holds,  that  where  there  are  both  a  permissible  and  a 
prohibited  thing  we  must  engage  ourselves  only  with  the  per- 
missible thing  and  not  with  the  prohibited  ?  Said  Rabba  bar 
bar  Hana  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan :  "  That  is  R.  Simeon  ben 
Gamaliel,  who  said  in  Tract  Betza,  that  if  the  waste  was  in  a 
larger  quantity  than  the  eatable  portion,  the  eatable  portion 
might  be  taken,  but  the  waste  must  not  be  touched.  In  the 
case  of  the  barrel,  the  useful  portion  is  certainly  in  a  larger 
quantity  than  the  useless  (why,  then,  should  he  not  remove  the 
stone  ?).  If  a  man  should  wish  to  remove  the  wine,  it  would 
necessitate  his  lifting  the  barrel  at  all  events ;  with  the  barrel  the 
stone  would  also  be  lifted,  and  in  that  case  the  useless  would 
surpass  in  quantity  the  useful." 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  R.  Jose  said:  "  If  a  barrel 
stood  in  a  cellar  amongst  other  barrels,  or  among  glassware  (and 
there  is  danger  that  if  the  barrel  is  lifted  and  bent  over  the 
stone  covering  it  will  fall  upon  another  barrel,  or  upon  some  of 


TRACT   SABBATH.  325 

the  glassware  and  break  it),  It  may  be  lifted,  carried  to  another 
place,  bent  over  so  that  the  stone  roll  off,  its  contents  removed 
to  the  quantity  required,  and  returned  to  its  former  place." 

''If  money  lie  on  a  bolster,"  etc.  Said  R.  Hyya  bar  Ashi  in 
the  name  of  Rabh :  "  The  Mishna  here  refers  to  a  case  where 
the  money  was  accidentally  left  on  the  bolster;  but  if  it  is  laid 
there  on  purpose,  the  bolster  becomes  a  basis  to  a  prohibited 
thing  and  must  not  be  handled." 

Hyya  the  son  of  Rabh  of  Diphti  taught  the  same  as  Rabba 
bar  bar  Hana  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan,  viz.  (page  323),  that 
if  the  space  occupied  by  the  bolster  is  required,  the  bolster 
together  with  the  money  may  be  moved. 

R.  Oshea  said:  "  If  a  purse  of  money  was  accidentally  left 
in  private  ground,  one  may  put  a  loaf  of  bread  or  a  child  on  it 
and  take  it  back  to  the  house."  R.  Itz'hak  said:  "  This  rule 
applies  not  only  to  a  purse  of  money,  but  also  to  a  brick  that  is 
needed  for  any  purpose." 

Said  R.  Jehudah  bar  Shila  in  the  name  of  R.  Assi,  that  a 
box  of  money  was  once  forgotten  in  the  market  and  R.  Johanan 
was  asked  what  was  to  be  done.  He  ordered  them  to  place  a 
loaf  of  bread  or  a  child  on  it,  and  take  it  in.  Said  Mar  Zutra: 
"  All  these  rules  are  laid  down  in  the  case  of  where  the  things 
referred  to  were  left  by  accident."  But  R.  Ashi  said,  that  such 
is  not  the  case,  and  that  a  child  or  a  loaf  of  bread  can  be  used 
to  move  a  corpse  only. 

When  Abayi  had  to  bring  in  stalks  of  grain,  he  would  put  on 
them  some  article  of  food  (or  some  vessel)  and  bring  it  into  the 
house ;  and  when  Rabha  had  to  bring  in  (an  uncooked)  dove,  he 
would  put  a  knife  on  it  and  bring  it  into  the  house.  When  R. 
Joseph  heard  of  this,  he  said:  "  How  sagacious  are  the  minds 
of  these  young  scholars !  When  did  the  rabbis  permit  this  to 
be  done  ?  When  the  things  to  be  brought  were  forgotten  on  the 
outside;  but  they  did  not  permit  their  being  moved  to  com- 
mence with."  Abayi  answered:  "(I  have  done  right.)  For 
were  I  not  a  trustworthy  man,  I  would  not  have  used  those 
means  to  bring  in  the  grain  at  all.  Stalks  of  grain  are  a  useful 
thing  to  sit  on,  and  maybe  handled."  And  Rabha  said:  "(I 
have  also  done  right.)  For  were  I  not  a  trustworthy  man,  I 
would  not  have  placed  a  knife  on  the  dove  at  all,  as  there  are 
some  people  who  eat  it  raw  (hence  it  may  be  handled  on  the 
Sabbath)."  Shall  we  say,  that  Rabha  holds  that  the  raw  dove 
may  be  handled  only  because  it  is  eaten  (raw)  by  some  people, 


326  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

and  were  it  not  so  it  could  not  be  handled  (on  Sabbath),  hence 
he  holds  as  R.  Jehudah  in  Tract  Betza  ?  Did  not  Rabha  say  to 
his  servant  on  a  festival:  "  Fry  a  duck  for  me  and  throw  the 
entrails  to  the  cat";  and  we  see  thence  that  he  permitted  his 
servant  to  handle  the  entrails  because  they  were  food  for  a  cat  ? 
The  entrails  would  have  spoiled  if  left  over  for  the  next  day, 
and  we  must  assume  therefore  that  they  were  designed  as  food 
for  the  cat  from  the  day  preceding. 

MISHNA:  The  school  of  Shamai  teaches;  "  Bones  and 
husks  may  be  removed  from  the  table."  The  school  of  Hillel, 
however,  teaches:  "  One  may  only  lift  the  whole  table  board  (or 
cloth),  and  shake  off  what  is  left  over."  All  crumbs  smaller 
than  an  olive  may  be  removed  from  the  table ;  also  the  hulls  of 
beans  and  lentils,  because  they  may  serve  for  fodder.  It  is 
allowed  to  use  a  sponge  for  wiping,  providing  it  has  a  handle 
made  of  leather;  otherwise,  it  is  not  allowed.  At  all  events, 
one  may  handle  a  sponge  on  the  Sabbath,  and  it  is  not  subject 
to  defilement. 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Na'hman:  We  know  that  the  school  of 
Shamai  holds  to  the  opinion  of  R.  Jehudah  (who  accepts  the 
theory  of  Muktza),  and  that  the  school  of  Hillel  holds  to  the 
opinion  of  R.  Simeon  (who  disregards  the  law  of  Muktza). 
(Hence  the  order  of  the  Mishna  should  be  reversed.)  The  dic- 
tum of  the  school  of  Shamai  should  be  credited  to  the  school 
of  Hillel,  and  vice  versa. 

"  Hulls  of  beanSy"  etc.  The  permission  to  remove  the  hulls 
of  beans,  etc.,  is  certainly  in  accordance  with  R.  Simeon,  who 
disregards  the  law  of  Muktza;  and  the  latter  clause  of  the 
Mishna  referring  to  a  sponge,  which  must  not  be  used  for  wiping 
off  the  table  unless  it  have  a  handle  (because  without  the  handle 
it  would  be  wrung  and  that  is  prohibited,  although  the  intention 
to  wring  it  did  not  exist),  is  in  accordance  with  the  opinion  of  R. 
Jehudah,  who  holds,  that  one  must  not  perform  an  act  even 
unintentionally.  In  this  case  R.  Simeon  also  agrees  with  R. 
Jehudah,  because  it  again  presents  a  parallel  case  to  the  behead- 
ing of  a  creature  where  no  intention  to  kill  it  exists. 

The  pits  of  dates  (Armiassa)  to  which  some  of  the  meat  ad- 
heres may  be  handled,  and  those  of  Parsiassa  *  must  not  be  han- 
dled. Samuel  used  to  handle  the  latter  with  bread,  holding  to 
his  opinion  that  anything  at  all  may  be  done  with  bread  (while 

*  For  explanation  of  the  terms  Armiassa  and  Parsiassa,  see  Vol.  I,,  p.  45. 


TRACT   SABBATH.  327 

others  hold  that  bread  should  not  be  put  to  any  uses  except  for 
food).  Rabba  would  hold  them  with  a  pitcher  of  water.  R. 
Shesheth  would  throw  them  out  by  means  of  his  tongue,  and 
R.  Papa  would  throw  them  underneath  the  bed.  It  was  told  of 
R.  Zacharias  ben  Abkulos,  that  he  would  turn  his  face  towards 
the  back  of  the  bed  and  throw  them  out  with  his  tongue. 


CHAPTER    XXII. 

REGULATIONS   CONCERNING    PREPARATION    OF    FOOD    AND    BEVERAGES. 

MISHNA:  Should  a  cask  break  open,  sufficient  may  be 
saved  for  three  meals.  The  owner  may  also  call  to  others: 
"  Come  and  save  for  yourselves  (whatever  you  can)."  No  por- 
tion of  the  leakage,  however,  may  be  sponged  up  (soaked  up 
with  a  sponge).  One  must  not  press  fruit  in  order  to  extract 
the  juice;  and  if  it  ooze  out  by  itself,  it  must  not  be  used.  R. 
Jehudah  said:  "  If  the  fruit  is  for  eating,  the  juice  which  oozes 
out  may  be  used;  but  if  it  is  for  beverage,  it  must  not  be  used. 
If  honeycombs  be  broken  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath  and  the  honey 
ooze  out,  the  honey  must  not  be  used."  R.  Eliezer,  however, 
permits  this. 

GEMARA:  We  have  learned,  that  wine  must  not  be  soaked 
up  with  a  sponge,  and  oil  must  not  be  dipped  with  a  spoon,  in 
the  same  manner  as  it  is  done  on  week-days  (there  must  be  a 
slight  change). 

The  rabbis  taught:  If  fruit  becomes  scattered  in  a  courtyard 
(private  ground)  it  may  be  gathered  up  and  eaten,  but  this  must 
not  be  done  as  on  a  week-day;  i.e.,  gathered  in  a  basket. 

"  One  must  not  press  fruit,"  etc.  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the 
name  of  Samuel:  "  R.  Jehudah  (of  the  Mishna)  agrees  with  the 
sages  in  the  case  of  olives  and  grapes."  Why  so  ?  Because 
this  class  of  fruit  is  intended  only  for  pressing,  and  the  juice 
which  must  of  a  necessity  ooze  out  might  be  calculated  upon  by 
the  owner  for  a  beverage.  Ula  said,  that  R.  Jehudah  differed 
with  the  sages  even  in  the  case  of  olives  and  grapes.  R.  Johanan 
said,  that  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Jehudah  as  far 
as  other  fruit  is  concerned,  but  not  as  regards  olives  and  grapes. 

Said  R.  Aba  in  the  name  of  R.  Jehudah,  quoting  Samuel : 
"  R.  Jehudah  subsequently  agreed  with  the  sages  as  regards 
olives  and  grapes,  and  the  sages  also  agreed  with  him  later  con- 
cerning other  fruit."  Said  R.  Jeremiah  to  R.  Aba:  "  Wherein 
do  they  differ  ?  "  and  R.  Aba  answered  :  "  Go  and  seek,  and  thou 
wilt  find  it!  "     Said  R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak:  "  It  seems  to  me 

328 


TRACT    SABBATH.  329 

that  they  differ  concerning  berries  and  pomegranates,  for  we 
have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  The  juice  of  olives  or  grapes,  which 
after  having  been  pressed  and  brought  into  the  house  had  oozed 
out  by  itself,  must  not  be  used,  whether  the  fruit  had  been 
brought  in  for  eating  or  beverage.  If  a  man  squeezed  out  the 
juice  of  berries  and  pomegranates  and  brought  the  pressed  fruit 
into  the  house  to  eat,  if  any  more  juice  oozed  out,  he  might 
drink  it;  but  if  he  brought  the  fruit  expressly  for  eating  pur- 
poses or  for  beverage,  or  without  any  express  design,  he  must 
not  drink  the  juice  that  had  oozed  out,  so  said  R.  Jehudah.  The 
sages,  however,  prohibit  the  use  of  the  juice  under  any  circum- 
stances." 

Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  "A  man  may 
squeeze  out  a  bunch  of  grapes  directly  into  a  pot,  but  not  into  a 
bowl.  (Why  not  ?  Because  if  he  squeezed  it  into  the  pot  it  is 
proof  positive  that  it  will  be  used  for  food,  but  if  squeezed  into 
the  bowl  it  might  be  used  as  a  beverage.)  Said  R.  Hisda: 
"  From  the  decree  of  our  master  we  can  learn,  that  a  man  may 
milk  a  goat  right  into  the  pot,  but  not  into  a  bowl."  Thus  we 
see  that  Samuel  holds,  that  beverages  when  mixed  with  eat- 
ables are  also  regarded  as  eatables. 

Said  R.  Zera  in  the  name  of  R.  Hyya  bar  Ashi,  quoting 
Rabh :  "  A  bunch  of  grapes  must  be  squeezed  directly  into  the 
pot,  but  not  into  a  bowl,  but  the  oil  of  fish  may  be  pressed  out 
even  into  a  bowl."  R.  Dimi  repeated  this  decree.  Said  Abayi 
to  him:  "  Ye  teach  this  in  the  name  of  Rabh,  hence  ye  have  no 
objection;  but  we  learn  this  in  the  name  of  Samuel,  hence  we 
have  the  following  objection :  '  Can  Samuel  say  that  the  oil  of 
a  fish  may  be  squeezed  out  even  in  a  bowl  ?  Were  we  not 
taught,  that  if  a  man  squeezed  out  herbs  which  were  soaked  in 
wine  and  vinegar,  it  is,  according  to  Rabh,  permitted  to  com- 
mence with,  if  the  herbs  were  to  be  eaten;  but  if  the  juice  only 
was  to  be  used,  the  man  would  not  be  liable  for  a  sin-offering, 
but  he  should  not  do  it  to  start  with  ?  If  the  herbs,  however, 
were  cooked,  whether  the  man  wished  to  eat  them  or  only  use 
the  juice,  he  might  squeeze  them  out  into  a  bowl.  Samuel, 
however,  decreed,  that  be  the  herbs  cooked  or  raw,  one  may  do 
this  only  if  he  intends  to  eat  the  herbs,  but  not  if  he  only  intends 
to  use  the  juice;  if  he  does,  however,  he  is  not  liable  for  a  sin- 
offering.'  " 

R.  Dimi  answered  :  "  By  the  Lord!  My  eyes  have  seen  it, 
and  not  as  a  stranger,  that  I  heard  this  decree  from  R.  Jeremiah, 


330  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

he  from   R,    Zera,  he  again   from  R.    Hyya  bar  Ashi,  and  the 
latter  from  Rabh's  mouth." 

In  regard  to  the  quoted  Boraitha  concerning  the  herbs  that 
one  had  squeezed  out  (we  have  heard  the  opinion  of  Rabh  and 
Samuel),  R.  Johanan  said:  "  Be  they  cooked  or  raw  herbs,  he 
may  do  so  to  commence  with,  if  he  intends  to  eat  the  herbs;  but 
if  he  only  desires  the  juice  he  must  not  do  so,  and  if  he  does  he 
is  liable  for  a  sin-ofTering. "  All  this,  however,  is  opposed  by 
the  following  Boraitha:  "One  may  squeeze  out  herbs  which 
were  soaked  in  wine  and  vinegar  on  the  Sabbath  for  use  on  the 
same  day,  but  not  for  later  use ;  but  one  must  not  press  olives 
or  grapes,  and  if  he  does,  he  is  liable  for  a  sin-offering."  Now, 
this  is  in  opposition  to  all  three:  Rabh,  Samuel,  and  R.  Jo- 
hanan. Rabh  could  explain  this  in  accordance  with  his  teach- 
ing; viz.:  The  herbs  maybe  pressed  on  the  Sabbath,  for  use 
on  that  day  and  not  later,  providing  he  uses  the  herbs  for  eat- 
ing; but  if  he  wishes  to  use  the  juice  he  must  not  do  so,  but 
if  he  does  he  is  not  liable  for  a  sin-offering;  and  cooked  herbs 
he  may  squeeze  out,  whether  he  requires  the  herbs  or  the  juice; 
olives  and  grapes  he  should  not  press :  if  he  does,  he  is  liable 
for  a  sin-offering.  Samuel  could  explain  it  according  to  his  own 
opinion :  A  man  may  squeeze  out  herbs  on  Sabbath  for  that 
same  day,  but  not  for  later  use ;  and  the  same  law  applies  to 
cooked  herbs,  provided  they  are  used  for  eating,  but  if  the  juice 
is  wanted  they  must  not  be  pressed,  etc.  R.  Johanan  could 
explain  the  Boraitha  in  accordance  with  his  teaching,  as  follows : 
Be  the  herbs  cooked  or  soaked,  they  may  be  squeezed  out  if 
intended  for  eating;  but  if  the  juice  is  required  he  must  not, 
and  if  he  did  so  it  is  equal  to  pressing  olives  or  grapes,  and  he  is 
liable  for  a  sin-offering. 

Said  R.  Hyya  bar  Ashi  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  "  According 
to  biblical  law  one  cannot  be  culpable  except  for  pressing  olives 
and  grapes.  So  have  taught  the  disciples  of  Menasseh.  Also 
according  to  biblical  law,  a  witness  that  testifies  from  hearsay 
must  not  be  accredited,  with  the  exception  of  a  case  where  he 
testifies  to  having  heard  that  a  woman's  husband  had  died." 

"  If  ho7ieycombs  be  broken  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath.''  When  R, 
Hosea  came  from  Neherdai  he  brought  a  new  Boraitha;  viz.: 
"  If  olives  and  grapes  were  crushed  before  the  Sabbath,  and  the 
juice  oozed  out,  it  must  not  be  drunk;  but  R.  Eliezer  and  R. 
Simeon  both  permit  it."  Said  R.  Joseph:  "  He  just  tells  us 
of  another  man  in  addition  to  R.  Eliezer!  "     Said  Abayi  to  him  : 


TRACT    SABBATH.  331 

"  He  taught  us  a  great  deal;  for  from  our  Mishna  I  would  say, 
that  honeycombs  were  eatables  before  being  crushed  and  also 
afterwards;  therefore  R.  Eliezer  permits  the  use  of  the  honey, 
but  in  the  case  of  olives  and  grapes  which  were  previously 
eatables  and  subsequently  became  beverages,  it  might  be  pre- 
sumed that  even  R.  Eliezer  would  not  permit  their  use.  Hence 
we  were  instructed  by  R.  Hosea  to  the  contrary." 

MISHNA:  Whatever  has  been  dressed  with  hot  water  on 
the  eve  of  Sabbath,  may  be  soaked  in  hot  water  on  the  Sab- 
bath ;  and  whatever  has  not  been  dressed  with  hot  water  on  the 
eve  of  Sabbath,  must  only  be  passed  through  hot  water  on  the 
Sabbath :  excepting  only  stale  salt  fish  and  Spanish  kolias  (a 
kind  of  fish  which  was  generally  cured  to  make  it  eatable),  for 
passing  these  through  hot  water  is  all  the  dressing  required  for 
them. 

GEMARA :  What  does  the  Mishna  refer  to  ?  For  instance, 
the  hen  of  R.  Aba !  He  would  cook  a  hen,  then  soak  it  in  water, 
and  when  it  would  fall  to  pieces  he  would  eat  it.  Said  R.  Safra : 
"  I  was  there  at  one  time  and  R.  Aba  served  me  with  some  of 
that  dish,  and  had  he  not  given  three-year-old  wine  immediately 
after  it,  I  would  have  been  forced  to  vomit." 

R.  Johanan  would  spit  every  time  he  was  reminded  of  Baby- 
lonian Kutach  (a  dish  made  of  small  salt  fish  boiled  in  milk). 
Said  R.  Joseph:  "Yea,  and  let  us  spit  when  we  think  of  R. 
Aba's  hen."  And  R.  Gaza  said :  "  I  was  in  Palestine  at  one 
time,  and  made  that  same  dish  (kutach) ;  so  they  begged  me  to 
give  them  some  for  all  the  sick  in  Palestine." 

"And  whatever  has  not  been  dressed  with  hot  water,''  etc. 
What  is  the  law  concerning  one  who  had  passed  kolias  or  stale 
salt  fish  through  hot  water  ?  Said  R.  Joseph :  "  He  is  liable  for 
a  sin-offering."  Said  Mar  the  son  of  Rabhina:  "We  have  un- 
derstood it  so  from  the  Mishna,  because  the  last  clause  is  '  for 
passing  these  through  hot  water  is  all  the  dressing  required  for 
them,'  and  the  finishing  of  a  certain  kind  of  labor  is  equivalent 
to  hammering." 

R.  Hyya  bar  Aba  and  R.  Assi  once  sat  in  the  presence  of  R. 
Johanan,  and  R.  Johanan  dozed  off.  So  R.  Hyya  bar  Aba  asked 
R.  Assi  why  the  fowls  of  Babylon  were  so  fat.  R.  Assi  an- 
swered: "  Go  to  the  desert  of  Aza  in  Palestine,  and  I  will  show 
thee  fatter  ones."  "  Why  are  the  Babylonians  so  merry  during 
the  festivals  ?"  asked  R.  Hyya  again.  "  Because  they  are  poor 
(and  during  the  entire  year  they  have  no  pleasures,  so  they  take 


332  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

advantage  of  the  festivals),"  was  the  answer.  "  Why  are  the 
scholars  of  Babylon  so  well  dressed?"  queried  R.  Hyya. 
"Because  they  are  ignorami  "  (and  must  wear  good  clothes  in 
order  to  command  respect),  answered  R.  Assi.  At  that  moment 
R.  Johanan  awoke,  and  said  to  them:  "  Youngsters!  Did  I  not 
tell  you,  that  it  is  written  [Proverbs  vii.  4]:  '  Say  unto  wisdom, 
Thou  art  my  sister,*  which  means:  If  a  thing  is  as  certain  to 
thee  as  the  fact  that  thou  canst  not  marry  thy  own  sister,  then 
say  it  ?  Otherwise,  thou  shalt  not  say  it,  (Then  why  speak 
such  foolishness  ?)  "  Then  said  they:  "  Let  Master  tell  some 
things  (which  would  benefit  us)!"  Said  R.  Johanan:  "The 
fowls  of  Babylon  are  fat  because  they  were  never  driven  away 
from  home,  as  it  is  written  [Jeremiah  xlviii.  ii]:  '  Moab  was 
ever  at  ease  from  his  youth,  and  he  was  resting  on  his  lees, 
and  was  not  emptied  from  vessel  to  vessel,  and  had  not  gone 
into  exile:  therefore  had  his  taste  remained  in  him  and  his  scent 
was  not  changed.'  Whence  do  we  know  that  the  fowls  of  Pal- 
estine were  driven  from  home  ?  It  is  written  [ibid.  ix.  9] : 
*  Both  the  fowls  of  the  heavens  and  the  beasts  are  fled ;  they  are 
gone  away.' — [R.  Jacob  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan,  that 
the  fowls  and  the  beasts  and  all  else  came  back  to  Palestine  with 
the  exception  of  the  Spanish  kolias  (the  reason  will  be  ex- 
plained in  Tract  Bechorath.] — '  Why  are  the  Babylonians  merry 
during  the  festivals  ? '  Because  they  were  not  included  in  the 
curse  of  [Hosea  ii.  13]:  '  And  I  will  cause  to  cease  all  her  mirth, 
her  festival,  her  new  moon,  and  her  Sabbath,  and  all  her  ap- 
pointed feasts.'  " 

Said  R.  Itz'hak:  "  (Indeed  it  was  so.)  There  was  not  a 
single  feast  in  Palestine,  that  the  military  did  not  come  to  Seph- 
oris  "  ;  and  R.  Hanina  said:  "There  was  not  a  single  feast  in 
Palestine,  that  captains,  guards,  and  supervisors  did  not  come  to 
Tiberias. " — "  Why  are  the  scholars  of  Babylon  so  well  dressed  ?  " 
"  Because  they  are  all  strangers.  As  the  saying  goes:  In  a  city 
where  a  man  is  known,  he  may  wear  whatever  he  chooses ;  but 
where  he  is  not  suflficiently  known  he  should  dress  well." 

R.  Joseph  taught:  It  is  written  [Isaiah  xxvii.  6]:  "In  the 
future  shall  Jacob  yet  take  root:  Israel  shall  bud  and  blossom; 
and  shall  fill  the  face  of  the  world  with  fruit."  What  is  meant 
by  "  bud  and  blossom  "  ?  The  scholars  of  Babylon,  who  wind 
blossoms  and  wreaths  around  the  Thorah. 

MISHNA:  A  man  may  break  open  a  cask,  to  eat  dry  figs 
therefrom  ;  provided,  he  does  not  intend  using  the  cask  afterwards 


TRACT   SABBATH.  333 

as  a  vessel.  He  must  not  pierce  the  bunghole  of  a  cask,  such  is 
the  decree  of  R.  Jehudah  (or  R.  Jose) ;  the  sages  permit  this  to 
be  done.  And  one  must  not  bore  a  hole  in  the  side  of  it ;  but 
if  it  was  already  perforated,  he  must  not  fill  it  up  with  wax, 
because  he  would  smoothen  the  wax  thereby.  Said  R.  Jehudah: 
"  Such  a  case  was  brought  before  R.  Johanan  ben  Sachai,  at 
Arab,  and  he  observed:  *  I  doubt  whether  that  act  does  not 
involve  liability  to  bring  a  sin-ofTering. '  " 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Oshea:  "  When  may  a  man  hold  a  dirk 
to  open  a  cask  of  figs  ?  If  the  figs  are  very  tightly  packed,  for 
then  he  would  have  to  use  a  knife  or  a  dirk  to  get  the  figs  out ; 
but  if  they  were  packed  loose  he  must  not  use  a  knife  to  open 
the  cask." 

An  objection  was  raised:  We  have  learned,  that  R.  Simeon 
ben  Gamaliel  said:  "  A  man  may  bring  in  a  cask  of  wine,  cut 
off  the  bung-head  with  a  knife,  and  serve  it  to  the  guests  with 
impunity."  This  Boraitha  is  in  accordance  with  the  opinion  of 
the  sages,  while  our  Mishna  is  in  accordance  with  the  decree  of 
R.  Nehemiah  (who  holds  that  no  vessel  may  be  used  for  any 
other  purpose  but  that  for  which  it  was  originally  intended). 
What  impelled  R.  Oshea  to  make  the  entire  Mishna  conform 
with  the  dictum  of  R.  Nehemiah  ?  Let  him  say,  that  the  cask 
may  be  opened  with  a  knife  even  if  the  figs  are  loose,  and  thus 
be  in  accord  with  the  sages  ?  Answered  Rabha:  "  The  reason 
is,  that  R.  Oshea  could  not  quite  comprehend  why  the  Mishna 
specified  figs:  it  could  have  said  fruit,  and  on  that  account  he 
reasoned  as  stated." 

In  one  Boraitha  we  have  learned:  Palm-leaf  baskets  contain- 
ing dried  figs  and  dates  may  be  untied,  taken  apart,  or  cut ;  and 
in  another  Boraitha  we  were  taught,  that  they  may  be  untied, 
but  not  taken  apart  or  tied.  This  presents  no  difficulty;  for 
one  Boraitha  is  in  accordance  with  the  opinion  of  the  sages,  and 
the  other  is  in  accord  with  R.  Nehemiah. 

A  question  was  asked  of  R.  Shesheth:  "  May  a  cask  be 
bored  with  an  auger  on  the  Sabbath  ?  Shall  we  assume,  that 
one  intended  to  make  an  opening  in  the  cask  and  hence  it  is 
prohibited,  or  that  he  intended  merely  to  make  a  larger  space 
for  the  flow  of  the  wine  and  it  is  therefore  permitted  ?"  The 
answer  was:  "  The  intention  was  to  make  an  opening,  and  it  is 
prohibited."  An  objection  based  upon  the  teaching  of  R.  Sim- 
eon ben  Gamaliel  previousy  mentioned  was  raised,  and  the  an- 
swer was:  "  There  the  int.Mition  certainly  was  to  make  the  space 

VOL.   IT. — 10 


334 


THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 


larger,  while  here  it  is  obvious  that  the  intention  was  to  make 
an  opening;  otherwise,  he  would  have  broken  open  the  cask 
with  a  knife." 

' '  One  must  not  pierce  the  bunghole  of  a  cask. ' '  Said  R.  H  una : 
"  They  differ  only  in  reference  to  the  top  of  a  bunghole  of  a 
cask;  but  as  for  the  side,  all  agree  that  it  is  not  allowed,  and 
this  is  carried  out  by  the  later  clause  in  the  Mishna;  viz. :  '  And 
he  must  not  bore  a  hole  in  the  side  of  it.'  "  R.  Hisda,  however, 
said:  "  They  differ  only  as  far  as  boring  a  hole  in  the  side  of  the 
bunghole  is  concerned,  but  as  for  the  top,  all  agree  that  it  is  per- 
mitted ;  and  the  later  clause  of  the  Mishna  means  to  state  that 
one  must  not  bore  a  hole  in  the  side  of  the  cask  itself." 

The  rabbis  taught:  One  must  not  bore  a  new  hole  on  Sab- 
bath, but  if  it  was  already  made  he  may  enlarge  it ;  and  others 
say,  that  he  must  not  enlarge  it ;  but  all  agree,  that  if  the  hole 
was  merely  stopped  it  may  be  reopened.  The  first  Tana  pro- 
hibits the  boring  of  a  new  hole,  because  thereby  an  opening  is 
made.  Does  not  enlarging  a  hole  improve  the  opening  ?  Said 
Rabba:  According  to  biblical  law,  an  opening  through  which 
one  cannot  enter  or  go  out  is  not  considered  a  door,  but  the  rab- 
bis made  this  a  precaution  on  account  of  chicken-coops,  the 
holes  of  which  are  made  for  the  purpose  of  admitting  fresh  air 
and  emitting  the  foul.  (Therefore  making  a  hole  in  a  coop  is 
equivalent  to  making  a  whole  coop,  for  without  holes  it  is  of  no 
value.)  Enlarging  a  hole,  however,  is  permitted,  because  one 
would  enlarge  a  hole  in  a  chicken-coop,  lest  an  ichneumon  should 
enter  and  kill  a  chicken.  Why  do  some  say,  then,  that  holes 
should  not  even  be  enlarged  ?  Because  it  might  be  that  one 
did  not  make  the  hole  in  a  chicken-coop  large  enough,  and 
would  enlarge  it.  R.  Na'hman  taught  in  the  name  of  R.  Jo- 
hanan,  that  the  Halakha  remains  according  to  the  last  dictum. 

All  agree,  that  a  hole  which  had  been  stopped  up  may  be  re- 
opened. Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  This  was 
said  only  in  the  case  of  where  a  hole  had  been  stopped  to  pre- 
serve the  aroma  of  the  wine.  If,  however,  the  hole  was  stopped 
up  in  order  to  strengthen  the  cask,  it  must  not  be  reopened. 
What  is  meant  by  preserving  the  aroma  and  by  strengthening 
the  cask  ?  Said  R.  Hisda:  "  If  the  hole  was  on  top  of  the  cask 
and  was  stopped  up,  it  was  for  the  purpose  of  preserving  the 
aroma;  but  if  at  the  bottom,  it  was  for  the  purpose  of  strength- 
ening the  cask."  Rabha  said:  "If  it  was  at  the  bottom,  it  was 
also  only  for  the  purpose  of  preserving  the  aroma;  and  only  if 


TRACT   SABBATH.  335 

the  hole  was  stopped  up  right  underneath  the  lees  of  the  wine, 
it  was  for  the  purpose  of  strengthening  the  cask." 

Rabh  prohibits  the  inserting  of  a  faucet  into  a  cask,  and 
Samuel  permits  it.  All  agree,  that  cutting  a  hole  in  the  cask  for 
the  purpose  of  inserting  a  faucet  is  prohibited,  and  that  replac- 
ing the  faucet,  if  once  removed,  is  permitted.  They  differ, 
however,  only  when  a  hole  had  already  been  made  in  the  cask 
before  the  Sabbath,  but  it  was  not  quite  fit  for  the  faucet. 
Those  who  say,  that  it  is  prohibited,  do  so  as  a  precaution  lest 
one  cut  a  fresh  hole,  while  those  that  permit  this  to  be  done  say 
no  precautionary  measure  is  necessary. 

This  is  like  the  following  difference  between  Tanaim:  We 
have  learned  that  a  screw  must  not  be  fitted  on  a  festival,  much 
less  on  a  Sabbath ;  but  if  it  fall  out  it  may  be  replaced  on  Sab- 
bath, and  so  much  more  on  a  festival ;  and  R.  Yashia  makes  the 
ordinance  more  lenient.  What  does  R.  Yashia  make  more  leni- 
ent ?  Shall  we  assume,  that  he  refers  to  the  first  part  and  per- 
mits a  screw  to  be  cut  ?  In  that  event,  he  would  be  improving 
a  vessel,  and  that  is  certainly  not  allowed !  Shall  we  assume,  on 
the  other  hand,  that  he  refers  to  the  second  part ;  the  first  Tana 
alone  permits  this  ?  We  must  say,  therefore,  that  the  screw  was 
already  cut,  but  did  not  quite  fit,  and  he  permits  the  fitting  of 
it.  (Hence  the  same  difference  exists  here  as  between  the  pre- 
vious Tanaim.)  R.  Shesheth  the  son  of  R.  Idi  in  the  name  of  R. 
Johanan  said:  "  The  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Yashia." 

'*  But  if  it  was  already  perforated,''  ^\.c.  To  fill  it  up  with 
oil  is,  according  to  Rabh,  prohibited,  as  a  precaution  lest  he  fill 
it  with  wax;  and  according  to  Samuel  it  is  permitted,  as  the  lat- 
ter does  not  deem  a  precautionary  measure  necessary.  Said  R. 
Samuel  bar  bar  Hana  to  R.  Joseph:  "  Thou  hast  said  distinctly 
in  the  name  of  Rabh,  that  oil  is  permitted."  Answered  R. 
Joseph:  "  Thou  hast  caught  me  in  a  trap."  * 

Said  Samuel:  "  The  leaf  of  myrtle  must  not  be  put  in  the 
bunghole  of  a  cask,  so  that  the  wine  flow  over  it."  Why  so  ? 
R.  Yimar  of  Diphti  said:  "  As  a  precaution  lest  a  groove  (chan- 
nel) be  made."  R.  Ashi  said:  "  As  a  precaution  lest  the  leaf  be 
broken  off  (from  its  stem)."  What  difference  is  there?  The 
difference  is  in  the  case  of  a  leaf  that  had  already  been  broken 
off  (from  its  stem).  (The  precautionary  measure  of  R.  Yimar 
remains,  while  that  of  R.  Ashi  falls  to  the  ground  of  itself.) 

*  See  note  to  page  114  of  this  tract. 


336  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

Is  it  permitted  to  wrap  one's  self  in  a  bolster  in  public 
ground  and  bring  it  into  private  ground  ?  Rabh  prohibits  this 
and  Samuel  permits  it.  If  the  bolster  were  soft  and  could  be 
folded,  they  do  not  differ,  all  agreeing  that  it  is  permitted.  If 
it  were  hard  and  could  not  be  folded,  all  agree  that  it  is  prohib- 
ited. They  differ  only  concerning  a  bolster  that  was  neither 
soft  nor  hard,  but  a  medium  between  the  two.  One  says,  that 
it  appears  like  a  burden  and  should  not  be  carried,  while  the 
other  holds  that  it  is  not  a  burden  and  may  be  carried ;  and  the 
opinion  just  ascribed  to  Rabh  was  not  stated  by  him  expressly, 
but  was  merely  inferred  from  the  following  incident:  "  Rabh 
came  to  a  certain  place  and  found  that  he  lacked  room ;  so  he 
went  out  into  a  lane  (unclaimed  ground),  and  when  a  bolster  was 
brought  to  him  he  would  not  sit  down  on  it.  Those  who  saw 
this  inferred  therefore  that  he  did  not  hold  it  to  be  permissible." 
As  a  matter  of  fact,  this  was  not  so.  Rabh  had  it  proclaimed 
that  a  bolster  was  allowed  to  be  used,  but  in  honor  of  the  mas- 
ters who  were  with  him  he  would  not  sit  down  on  that  bolster. 
Who  were  those  masters  ?     R.  Kahana  and  R.  Assi. 

MISHNA:  One  may  put  cooked  victuals  into  a  cave  (or  cel- 
lar) for  the  purpose  of  preserving  them  ;  also  put  clean  water 
(contained  in  a  vessel)  into  water  that  is  not  drinkable,  in  order 
to  keep  it  (the  former)  cool ;  likewise  cold  water  (in  a  vessel) 
into  hot  water,  in  order  to  warm  the  former.  One  whose  clothes 
have  dropped  into  the  water  while  on  the  road,  may  unhesitat- 
ingly go  on  with  them.  As  soon  as  he  arrives  at  the  outmost 
court  (of  the  city  or  village),  he  may  spread  his  clothes  in  the 
sun  to  dry,  but  he  must  not  do  this  publicly. 

GEMARA:  Is  this  not  self-evident  ?  One  might  say,  that 
there  should  be  a  precaution  against  grading  (smoothening)  any 
incavations  that  might  be  in  the  cave ;  hence  we  are  told  that  such 
is  not  the  case. 

Clean  ivater  into  water  that  is  not  drinkable,''  etc.  Is  this 
not  self-evident?  Yea;  but  this  is  taught  on  account  of  the 
later  clause  in  the  Mishna,  i.e.,  putting  cold  water  into  hot.  Is 
this  also  not  self-evident  ?  One  might  say,  that  this  should  be 
prohibited,  as  a  precaution  lest  one  also  put  a  vessel  containing 
cold  water  into  glowing  cinders  to  warm ;  so  we  are  told,  that 
such  a  precaution  is  not  necessary. 

Ofie  whose  clothes  have  dropped  into  the  water,''  etc.  Said 
R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  "  All  things  which  were  for- 
bidden on  account  of  causing  suspicion  among  the  people  (that 


TRACT    SABBATH.  337 

one  is  committing  a  wrongful  act)  should  not  be  done,  not  only 
publicly,  but  even  in  the  innermost  recesses  of  one's  rooms." 
Is  this  not  contradictory  to  our  Mishna,  which  says,  that  one 
may  spread  his  clothes  in  the  sun,  but  not  publicly?  This  is  a 
difference  between  Tanaim,  for  in  reference  to  this  Mishna  we 
have  learned  in  a  Boraitha,  that  both  R.  Eliezer  and  R.  Simeon 
hold,  that  it  is  prohibited  even  when  not  done  publicly. 

Said  R.  Huna:  "  He  who  dusts  his  clothes  on  a  Sabbath  is 
liable  for  a  sin-offering.  This  refers  only,  however,  to  a  new 
garment,  but  not  to  an  old  one,  and  the  new  garment  only  when 
it  is  black;  but  garments  of  other  colors  may  be  dusted.  Refer- 
ring to  a  black  garment,  it  is  only  then  prohibited  to  be  dusted 
if  its  possessor  is  particular  about  it  (to  such  a  degree,  that  he 
never  puts  it  on  without  dusting  it)." 

Ula  once  came  to  Pumbaditha  and  he  saw  the  fabbis  dusting 
their  clothes  on  a  Sabbath,  so  he  said:  "  The  rabbis  are  violat- 
ing the  Sabbath!  "  So  R.  Jehudah  said  to  his  disciples:  "  Dust 
your  clothes  right  before  his  eyes:  we  are  not  particular." 

Abayi  stood  before  R.  Joseph.  R.  Joseph  said  to  him: 
"  Give  me  my  hat."  And  seeing  that  the  hat  was  very  dusty, 
Abayi  hesitated  to  give  it  to  him.  So  R.  Joseph  said:  "  Take 
hold  of  it  and  dust  it:  we  are  not  particular." 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  Those  who  deal  in  clothes, 
and  carry  them  folded  on  their  shoulders  on  Sabbath,  are  liable 
for  a  sin-offering:  this  refers  not  only  to  clothes-dealers,  but 
also  to  others ;  clothes-dealers,  however,  are  mentioned,  because 
that  is  their  usual  custom.  The  same  is  the  case  with  a  mer- 
chant who  carries  out  a  bag  of  money.  He  is  liable  for  a  sin- 
offering;  and  not  only  a  merchant,  but  also  others;  but  mer- 
chants are  mentioned  because  it  is  their  wont  to  carry  money  in 
that  manner. 

Said  R.  Jehudah:  "  It  once  happened  that  Hyrcanos  the  son 
of  R.  Eliezer  ben  Hyrcanos  went  out  on  Sabbath  with  a  ker- 
chief folded  on  his  shoulder  and  tied  to  one  of  his  fingers  with 
a  piece  of  twine  (in  order  that  it  might  not  fall  down) ;  and  when 
the  sages  heard  this,  they  said  that  the  twine  was  unnecessary, 
for  he  could  have  carried  the  kerchief  without  it." 

It  happened  that  Ula  came  to  the  house  of  Assi  bar  Hini, 
and  he  was  asked  whether  it  was  allowed  to  make  a  groove  of 
the  clothes  on  Sabbath.  (The  Babylonians  wore  long  garments, 
and  by  turning  them  up  at  the  bottom  a  quasi-groove  was  made.) 
Ula  answered:    "  So  said  R.   Ilai:    It  is  prohibited  to  make  a 


338  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

groove  on  Sabbath."  What  is  a  groove  ?  Said  R.  Zera:  "A 
groove  made  of  the  clothes  of  the  Babylonians."  Said  R.  Papa: 
"  Bear  this  rule  in  mind:  If  the  clothes  are  turned  up  for  the 
purpose  of  preventing  their  becoming  soiled,  it  is  prohibited; 
but  if  they  are  turned  up  to  improve  their  appearance,  it  is 
allowed,  as  R.  Shesha  the  son  of  R.  Idi  would  always  arrange  his 
cloak  (toga)  tastefully  (on  a  week-day,  hence  it  is  customary  and 
may  also  be  done  on  Sabbath)." 

When  R.  Dimi  came  from  Palestine,  he  related:  It  once  hap- 
pened that  Rabbi  went  out  into  the  field,  and  both  ends  of  his 
toga  hung  on  his  shoulders.  Said  Jehoshua  the  son  of  Ziruz, 
the  son  of  R.  Meir's  father-in-law  before  Rabbi:  "  Did  not  R. 
Meir  say,  that  in  a  case  of  this  kind  one  is  liable  for  a  sin-ofTer- 
ing  ?  "  Said  Rabbi:  "  Was  R.  Meir  so  particular,  that  he  deter- 
mined just  how  far  down  the  ends  of  one's  toga  should  reach  ? " 
Still  he  (Rabbi)  let  down  his  toga;  and  when  Rabhin  came  from 
Palestine  he  said,  that  it  was  not  Jehoshua  ben  Ziruz  who  made 
that  remark,  but  Jehoshua  ben  Bepusai  the  son-in-law  of  R. 
Aqiba;  and  not  that  R.  Meir  said  what  has  just  been  cited,  but 
that  R.  Aqiba  had  said  that.  Also,  that  Rabbi  had  inquired 
whether  R.  Aqiba  was  so  particular;  and  lastly,  that  Rabbi  let 
down  his  toga.  When  R.  Samuel  ben  R.  Jehudah  came  from 
Palestine  he  said,  that  Rabbi  was  only  asked  concerning  such  a 
case  (but  not  that  he  himself  was  the  party  referred  to), 

MISHNA:  One  who  bathes  in  the  water  of  a  cavern  or  in 
the  hot  springs  of  Tiberias,  though  he  wipe  himself  with  ten 
towels,  must  not  carry  them  off  in  his  hand ;  but  if  ten  persons 
wiped  themselves,  their  faces,  their  hands,  and  their  feet,  with 
one  towel,  they  might  carry  it  off  in  their  hands. 

One  may  anoint  and  rub  the  stomach  with  the  hands,  but 
not  so  as  to  cause  fatigue.  One  must  not  brush  the  body  with  a 
flesh-brush  or  descend  into  a  kurdima.*  One  must  not  take  an 
emetic,  or  stretch  the  limbs  of  an  infant,  or  put  back  a  rupture; 
one  who  has  strained  his  hand  or  foot  must  not  pour  cold  water 
on  it,  but  he  may  wash  it  in  the  usual  way:  if  he  thereby  be- 
comes cured,  it  is  well. 

GEMARA:  The  Mishna  teaches,  "  the  water  of  a  cavern," 
in  connection  with  the  hot  springs  of  Tiberias;  hence  it  must  be, 
that  the  water  of  a  cavern  is  also  hot.     And  again  it  says,  "  one 


*  A  bathing  place  with  a  loamy  bottom,  into  which  it  is  easy  to  descend,  but 
from  which  it  is  quite  an  exertion  to  ascend. 


TRACT    SABBATH. 


339 


who  bathes,"  and  not  "  one  may  bathe,"  from  which  we  see, 
that  to  commence  with,  bathing  in  those  waters  is  not  allowed ; 
but  merely  to  rinse  one's  self  is  permitted,  even  to  commence 
with.     This  is  according  to  the  opinion  of  R.  Simeon. 

Though  he  wipe  himself  with  ten  towels,'"  etc.  The  first 
part  of  this  clause  in  the  Mishna  imparts  something  new  and 
unexpected  in  that  it  teaches,  that,  although  if  one  man  wipe 
himself  with  ten  towels,  there  will  be  very  little  water  contained 
in  the  towels,  still  he  might  through  thoughtlessness  wring 
them ;  and  the  latter  part  of  the  clause  also  imparts  something 
new  and  unexpected,  stating,  as  it  does,  that  if  ten  men  wipe 
themselves  with  one  towel,  although  the  towel  will  contain  a 
great  deal  of  water,  they  will  mutually  remind  each  other  that  it 
must  not  be  wrung. 

The  rabbis  taught:  "  A  man  may  wipe  himself  with  a  towel 
and  leave  it  at  the  window  of  a  house  that  is  nearest  to  the  wall 
of  the  bathhouse;  but  he  must  not  give  it  to  the  bathhouse 
employees,  because  they  are  suspected  of  wringing  it  on  the 
Sabbath."  R.  Simeon,  however,  says:  "  A  man  may  wipe  him- 
self with  one  towel  and  carry  it  in  his  hand  to  his  house."  Said 
Abayi  to  R.  Joseph:  "  How  is  the  law?"  and  he  answered: 
"  Did  not  R.  Hyya  bar  Aba  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  say, 
that  the  law  prevails  according  to  R.  Simeon  ?"  Did  R.  Jo- 
hanan say  this  indeed  ?  Did  he  not  say  elsewhere,  that  the 
Halakha  prevails  according  to  the  anonymous  teachers  in  the 
Mishna,  and  the  Mishna  teaches,  that  even  if  one  man  wiped 
himself  with  ten  towels  he  must  not  carry  them  off  in  his  hand  ? 
E..  Johanan  teaches,  that  the  Mishna  concludes  with,  "  So  said 
the  son  of  Hakhinai  "  (hence  it  is  the  teaching  of  one  individual). 

R.  Hyya  bar  Aba  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  said:  "  The 
bathhouse  employees  may  carry  the  sheets  with  which  the 
women  wipe  themselves  in  the  bathhouse  on  the  street  by  wrap- 
ping them  around  their  bodies;  provided  they  wrap  them  over 
their  heads  and  the  greater  part  of  their  body." 

R.  Hyya  bar  Aba  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan:  "A 
large  veil  which  is  worn  by  women  should  have  the  two  ends 
that  hang  down  in  the  back  tied."  And  he  said  again,  that 
they  should  be  tied  underneath  the  shoulders. 

Rabha  said  to  the  inhabitants  of  Mehuzza:  "If  ye  must 
carry  clothes  for  the  military  on  Sabbath,  wrap  them  around  you 
underneath  the  shoulders." 

"  One  may  anoint  and  rub  his  stomach/'     The  rabbis  taught: 


340  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

"  The  stomach  may  be  rubbed  and  anointed  on  the  Sabbath, 
provided  it  is  not  done  the  same  as  on  week-days."  How 
should  it  be  done  ?  R.  Hama  bar  Hanina  said:  "  He  should 
first  anoint  it  and  then  rub  it";  but  R.  Johanan  said,  that  he 
might  do  both  at  the  same  time. 

"  But  so  as  not  to  cause  fatigue,'*  etc.  Said  R.  Hyya  bar 
Aba  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan:  "  It  is  not  allowed  to  stand  on 
the  bed  of  Lake  Deumseth,  because  the  loam  at  the  bottom  is 
saline  and  immersion  in  the  lake  causes  fatigue,"  Said  R. 
Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  "  The  days  on  which  a  cure  in 
that  lake  (for  bodily  ills)  may  be  effected  are  only  twenty-one, 
and  Pentecost  occurs  during  those  twenty-one  days."  The 
school-men  asked:  "  Does  Pentecost  fall  at  the  beginning  of  the 
twenty-one  days  or  at  the  end  ? "  Come  and  hear:  Samuel 
said,  that  all  waters  taken  for  a  cure  are  effective  only  from 
Passover  to  Pentecost.  As  for  waters  taken  internally,  Samuel 
may  be  right  (because  during  cool  weather  one  takes  more  exer- 
cise and  thus  the  waters  are  effective),  but  for  bathing  it  would 
seem  that  Pentecost  should  be  the  commencement. 

Said  R.  Helbo:  "  The  wine  of  the  land  of  Purgaitha  and 
the  waters  of  the  lake  Deumseth  robbed  Israel  of  ten  tribes  (be- 
cause indulgence  in  these  pleasures  are  detrimental  to  spiritual 
welfare)."  R.  Elazar  ben  Aroch  happened  to  be  there,  and  in- 
dulged in  those  luxuries  to  such  an  extent  that  he  forgot  his 
learning,  and  afterwards  the  sages  had  to  pray  for  his  return 
unto  the  Law.  This  is  as  we  have  learned  elsewhere  (Aboth):  R. 
Nehurai  said:  "  Go  into  exile  only  in  a  place  of  learning  and 
think  not  that  the  Law  will  follow  thee,  or  that  thy  comrades 
will  preserve  it  in  thy  hands,  and  do  not  depend  upon  thy  ac- 
quired knowledge."  This  R.  Nehurai  is,  according  to  some, 
the  same  Elazar  ben  Aroch,  and  he  was  called  Nehurai,  because 
this  signifies  (in  Hebrew)  "  light  of  the  eyes";  for  he  enlight- 
ened the  eyes  of  many  scholars  with  his  interpretations. 

One  must  not  brush  the  body,''  etc.  The  rabbis  taught: 
One  must  not  brush  the  body  with  a  flesh-brush  on  Sabbath. 
R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel  said:  "  If  one's  feet  were  soiled,  he 
might  brush  them  the  same  as  on  week-days  unhesitatingly." 
The  mother  of  Samuel  the  son  of  Jehudah  made  her  son  a  silver 
brush. 

"  Or  descend  into  a  kurdima."  Why  so  ?  Because  the  bot- 
tom of  a  kurdima  is  slippery  (and  one  might  fall  and  wet  his 
clothes,  and  thus  be  tempted  to  wring  them). 


TRACT    SABBATH. 


341 


One  must  not  take  an  emetic.'"  Said  Rabba  bar  bar  Hana 
in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan:  "  One  must  not  take  a  medica- 
ment as  an  emetic,  but  may  thrust  his  finger  down  his  throat 
and  thus  cause  vomiting." 

' '  Or  stretch  the  limbs  of  an  infafit. ' '  Said  Rabba  bar  bar 
Hana  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan:  "  To  swathe  a  child  on 
Sabbath  is  allowed." 

''Or  put  back  a  rupture.''  Said  R.  Hana  of  Bagdad  in  the 
name  of  Samuel:  "  The  Halakha  prevails,  that  it  may  be 
done."  (Samuel  learns  in  the  Mishna,  instead  of  "it  is  not 
allowed,"  "  it  is  allowed.") 

Rabba  bar  bar  Hana  once  came  to  Pumbaditha,  but  did  not 
go  into  the  college  of  R.  Jehudah.  So  R,  Jehudah  sent  for 
Ada,  the  officer  of  the  college,  and  said  to  him:  "  Go  and  take 
a  pledge  of  Rabba  bar  bar  Hana."  The  officer  went  and  did 
so.  Afterwards  Rabba  bar  bar  Hana  came  to  the  college.  When 
he  came  he  heard  R.  Jehudah  teach,  that  a  rupture  must  not  be 
put  back  on  the  Sabbath.  Said  he  to  him:  "  So  said  R.  Hana 
of  Bagdad  in  the  name  of  Samuel,  that  the  Halakha  prevails 
permitting  this  to  be  done."  Answered  R.  Jehudah:  "It  is 
our  Hana  and  our  Samuel.  Yet  we  never  heard  of  this  before. 
Now  thou  canst  see  that  I  was  right  in  demanding  a  pledge  for 
thy  appearance.  Hadst  thou  not  come,  we  would  never  have 
heard  this." 

One  who  has  strained  his  hand  or  foot,''  etc.  R.  Ivia  sat 
in  the  presence  of  R.  Joseph,  and  he  dislocated  his  hand.  Said 
he  to  R.  Joseph,  making  a  motion  to  replace  it:  "  May  I  replace 
it  thus?"  "Nay,"  said  R.  Joseph.  "And  thus  may  I  ? " 
asked  R.  Ivia,  making  another  motion.  "  Nay,"  was  the  answer 
again.  Thus  questioning,  he  finally  succeeded  in  replacing  his 
hand.  Said  R.  Joseph  to  him:  "  What  didst  thou  ask  me  for  ? 
It  is  expressly  stated  in  our  Mishna,  that  if  one  strained  his  hand 
or  his  foot,  he  must  not  pour  cold  water  on  it,  but  he  may  bathe 
it  in  the  usual  way.     If  he  thereby  becomes  cured,  it  is  well." 

"  Did  Ave  not  learn  in  the  same  Mishna  that  a  rupture  must 
not  be  put  back,  and  still  Samuel  permitted  it  to  be  done  ?  " 
asked  R.  Ivia.  Answered  R.  Joseph:  "  Canst  thou  weave  every- 
thing into  one  garment  ?  What  we  have  learned,  we  may  fol- 
low; but  what  we  have  not  learned,  we  cannot." 


CHAPTER   XXIII. 

REGULATIONS    CONCERNING  BORROWING,  CASTING    LOTS,   WAITING   FOR 
THE    CLOSE    OF    THE    SABBATH,    AND    ATTENDING    TO    A     CORPSE. 

MISHNA:  A  man  may  borrow  of  an  acquaintance  jugs  of 
wine  or  oil  (on  Sabbath),  provided  he  does  not  say  to  him: 
"  Lend  (them  to)  me."  A  woman  may  also  borrow  bread  from 
her  acquaintance.  If  the  man  is  refused  (by  his  acquaintance), 
he  may  leave  his  upper  garment  (as  a  pledge)  with  the  lender, 
and  settle  his  account  after  Sabbath.  Thus,  also,  in  Jerusalem, 
the  custom  was,  if  the  eve  of  Passover  fell  on  a  Sabbath,  a 
man  might  leave  his  upper  garment  with  the  vender,  take  his 
paschal  lamb,  and  settle  his  account  after  the  holiday. 

GEMARA:  Rabha  bar  R.  Hanan  said  to  Abayi:  "  What  is 
the  difference  between  saying:  '  I  want  to  borrow'  and  '  Lend 
me'  ?"  Answered  Abayi:  "  The  difference  is,  if  a  man  says, 
'  I  want  to  borrow,'  he  usually  returns  what  he  has  borrowed  and 
the  lender  will  not  be  compelled  to  write  it  down  ;  but  if  he  says, 
'Lend  (trust)  me,'  the  lender  generally  writes  down  what  he 
has  lent."  Said  Rabha  again:  "  During  the  week  it  makes  no 
difference,  the  lender  is  not  particular  whether  one  says,  '  I  want 
to  borrow,'  or  '  Lend  me.'  He  writes  it  down  just  the  same; 
then  why  should  a  distinction  be  made  on  Sabbath?"  And 
Abayi  answered:  "  The  saying  of  '  I  want  to  borrow,'  on  Sab- 
bath, is  a  reminder  to  the  lender  that  the  sages  said,  that  one 
must  not  say  '  lend  me,'  and  thus  prevents  him  from  writing  it 
down." 

The  same  said  again  to  Abayi :  "  Let  us  see  !  The  sages  said, 
that  everything  done  on  a  festival  which  can  be  done  in  a  differ- 
ent manner  from  that  on  a  week-day  should  so  be  done.  Now, 
why  do  we  not  see  women,  who  go  for  water  with  jugs,  perform 
that  work  differently  from  their  manner  on  a  week-day  ?"  He 
answered:  "Because  that  would  be  impossible!  For  how 
should  they  do  ?  Shall  we  say,  that  one  who  carries  a  large  jug 
should  carry  a  small  one  ?  That  would  necessitate  her  going 
twice.     Or  that  one  who  carries  a  small  jug  should  carry  a  larger 

342 


TRACT    SABBATH.  343 

one  ?  Then  she  would  have  a  heavier  burden  to  carry.  Should 
she  cover  it  with  a  cloth  ?  Then  she  might  wring  it.  Should 
she  cover  it  with  a  lid  ?  Then  she  might  have  to  untie  it. 
Hence  it  is  impossible."  * 

' '  A  woman  may  also  borrow  bread  from  an  acquaintance, ' ' 
etc.  From  the  Mishna  we  see,  that  only  on  Sabbath  a  woman 
must  not  say,  "  Lend  me,"  when  borrowing  bread,  and  on  week- 
days that  would  be  permitted.  Would  this  not  be  against  the 
decree  of  Hillel,  who  prohibits  this  on  account  of  possible  usury 
(as  explained  in  Tract  Baba  Metzia)  ?  Nay;  we  can  say  that 
the  Mishna  is  in  accordance  with  Hillel's  decree,  but  here  it 
refers  to  such  places  where  bread  has  a  fixed  value,  while  Hillel 
refers  to  places  where  bread  has  not  a  fixed  value. 

"  If  the  man  be  refused,"  etc.  It  was  taught:  "  A  loan  on 
a  festival  is,  according  to  R.  Joseph,  uncollectable  by  law,  and 
Rabba  say  it  is  collectable."  R.  Joseph  says,  that  it  is  uncollect- 
able, because  otherwise  the  lender  will  write  it  down ;  and  Rabba 
says,  if  we  say  that  it  is  uncollectable,  the  lender  will  not  trust 
the  borrower  and  the  latter  will  not  have  the  means  of  celebrat- 
ing the  festival.  Is  this  not  a  contradiction  to  our  Mishna, 
which  teaches,  that  if  the  man  be  refused  trust,  he  may  pledge 
his  garment,  etc.  ?  If  the  loan  be  uncollectable,  the  pledging  is 
quite  right ;  but  if  it  be  collectable  by  law,  why  should  the  bor- 
rower pledge  his  garment  ?  The  lender  can  sue  him  by  law  ?  The 
lender  might  say,  that  he  does  not  care  to  be  troubled  by  law- 
suits and  judges.  R.  Ivia  would  take  pledges,  and  Rabba  bar 
Ula  would  trick  the  borrower  (by  in  turn  borrowing  something 
from  him  after  the  holiday  and  holding  that  for  a  pledge). 

MISHNA:  A  man  may  count  the  number  of  his  guests  and 
also  of  his  extra  dishes  verbally,  but  not  from  a  written  list.  He 
may  let  his  children  and  household  draw  lots  at  table  (as  to  who 
is  to  have  one  dish,  and  who  is  to  have  another),  provided  he 
does  not  intentionally  stake  a  larger  portion  against  a  smaller 
one.  They  may  also  draw  lots  for  the  holy  sacrifices  on  a  festi- 
val (as  to  which  priest  is  to  have  one  sacrifice  and  which  is  to 
have  another),  but  not  for  the  eatable  portions  of  the  sacrifices 
(to  whom  one  piece  belongs,  and  to  whom  another  piece  be- 
longs). 

GEMARA:  Why  should  a  man  not  read  from  a  written  list  ? 


*  The  additional  quotations  of   Rabha  bar  Hanan  to  Abayi  concerning  festivals 
will  appear  in  Tract  "  Festivals,"  where  they  properly  belong. 


344  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Said  R.  Bibhi:  "  Lest  he  might  strike  out  a  guest's  name  or  an 
extra  dish  from  the  hst."  Abayi  said:  "  This  is  a  precautionary- 
measure  against  reading  of  business  papers  on  Sabbath."  What 
is  the  point  of  difference  between  them  ?  If  the  list  is  engraved 
on  the  wall !  In  that  case  there  is  no  fear  of  striking  out  a  name, 
but  the  precaution  against  reading  business  papers  still  remains, 
and  the  Amoraim  differ  in  this  case  with  the  Tanaim  in  the  fol- 
lowing Tosephta,  as  we  have  learned:  "  A  man  must  not  look 
into  a  mirror  on  Sabbath  (lest  he  trim  his  hair  with  scissors),  but 
R.  Meir  permits  looking  into  a  mirror  which  is  attached  to  a 
wall."  Now,  why  may  a  man  look  into  a  stationary  mirror;  be- 
cause by  the  time  he  goes  to  fetch  scissors,  he  will  be  reminded 
that  it  is  Sabbath  ?  Why  not  say,  that  the  same  is  the  case  with 
another  mirror,  which  he  holds  in  his  hand  ?  By  the  time  he 
lays  down  the  mirror  and  goes  for  scissors,  he  will  also  be  re- 
minded that  it  is  Sabbath  ?  The  mirror  prohibited  to  be  used 
by  the  first  Tana  of  the  Tosephta  is  one  that  is  attached  to  an 
instrument  which  can  be  used  to  trim  hair,  and  that  is  in  accord- 
ance with  the  dictum  of  R.  Na'hman  as  stated  by  Rabba  bar 
Abuha  in  his  name:  "  Why  did  the  sages  prohibit  the  use  of  an 
iron  mirror  ?  Because  a  man  might  use  it  to  trim  his  superflu- 
ous hair." 

The  rabbis  taught:  An  inscription  at  the  foot  of  pictures  of 
beasts  or  men  must  not  be  read  on  the  Sabbath ;  and  gazing  on 
the  picture  of  a  man  is  prohibited  even  on  week-days,  because 
it  is  written  [Leviticus  xix.  4]:  "Ye  shall  not  turn  unto  the 
idols."  With  what  tradition  do  you  supplement  this  verse,  that 
you  may  infer  therefrom  the  prohibition  to  gaze  at  a  picture  ? 
Said  R.  Hanin:  "Ye  shall  not  turn  to  the  idols  which  your 
imagination  alone  hath  created." 

' '  He  may  let  his  children  and  household  draw  lots, ' '  etc.  It 
says,  "  his  children  and  household  "  :  we  must  assume,  that 
strangers  are  not  to  be  included;  if  not,  why  not  ?  As  R.  Jehu- 
dah  said  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  A  party  of  men  eating  on  a 
festival,  where  the  portions  distributed  to  each  are  exactly  alike 
in  size  and  quantity,  are  guilty  of  the  following  prohibited  acts; 
viz.  :  measuring,  weighing,  counting,  borrowing  and  lending*  (all 
of  which  acts  are  prohibited  on  a  festival).  According  to  Hil- 
lel's  opinion,  they  are  guilty  of  usury  also.      If  that  is  so,  why 

*  Guilty  of  borrowing  and  lending  can  only  be  explained  by  presuming  that,  if 
one  received  a  smaller  portion  than  another,  the  host  would  promise  to  make  up  for 
the  deficiency  on  another  day. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  345 

should  it  be  allowed  for  his  children  and  household  ?  Here  the 
reason  is  as  related  by  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh,  who 
said:  "It  is  allowed  to  borrow  or  lend  from  and  to  one's  chil- 
dren* and  household  and  charge  interest,  in  order  to  exemplify 
the  evils  of  usury."  If  that  is  so,  why  is  it  not  allowed,  accord- 
ing to  the  Mishna,  to  stake  a  larger  portion  against  a  smaller  ? 
As  a  matter  of  fact,  it  is  allowed  ;  but  the  Mishna  is  defective 
and  should  read:  "  He  may  let  his  children  and  household 
draw  lots  at  table,  and  even  stake  a  larger  portion  against  a 
smaller."  Why  so  ?  As  R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh 
above:  He  may  let  his  children  and  household  draw  lots,  but 
not  strangers.  Why  so  ?  As  R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of 
Samuel  above:  A  larger  portion  must  not  be  staked  against  a 
smaller  one  even  on  week-days  for  strangers.  Why  so  ?  On 
account  of  Kubeia.* 

They  may  also  draw  lots  for  the  holy  sacrifices,''  etc.  What 
is  meant  by  "but  not  for  the  eatable  portions  "  ?  (Why  should 
that  not  be  done  ?  The  eatable  portions  of  the  sacrifices  must 
be  eaten  on  a  festival.)  Said  R.  Jacob  the  son  of  the  daughter 
of  Jacob:  "  That  prohibition  is  only  applicable  to  the  eatable 
portions  of  the  sacrifices  left  over  from  the  preceding  day.  Is 
this  not  self-evident  ?  I  would  say,  that  because  it  is  written 
[Hosea  iv.  4] :  '  And  thy  people  are  contentious  equally  with  the 
priests,'  that  the  priests  are  contentious,  and  hence  they  should 
be  permitted  to  cast  lots  for  the  eatable  portions  of  the  sacrifices 
(for  the  sake  of  peace) ;  therefore  we  are  taught,  that  the  sacri- 
fices of  the  day  may  be  drawn  for,  but  not  those  of  the  preced- 
ing day. 

The  same  R.  Jacob  said:  "  A  man  on  whose  account  another 
man  has  been  punished,  either  through  divine  or  human  judg- 
ment, is  not  admitted  into  the  abode  of  the  Holy  One,  blessed 
be  He."  Whence  is  this  adduced  ?  Shall  we  assume  that  it  is 
from  the  verses  [I  Kings  xxii.  20-22]:  "And  the  Lord  said, 
Who  will  persuade  Achab,  that  he  may  go  up  and  fall  at  Ram- 
oth-gil'ad  ?  And  one  said.  In  this  manner,  and  another  said.  In 
that  manner.  And  there  came  forth  a  spirit,  and  placed  him- 
self before  the  Lord  and  said,  I  will  persuade  him.  And  the 
Lord  said  unto  him,  Wherewith  ?  And  he  said,  I  will  go  forth, 
and  I  will  be  a  lying  spirit  in  the  mouth  of  all  his  prophets.  And 
He  said.  Thou  wilt  persuade  him,  and  also  prevail:  go  forth  and 

*  From  the  Greek  nvfieia  =  dice.  The  above  prohibition  is  a  precautionary 
measure  against  the  possibiHty  of  casting  lots  degenerating  into  a  game  of  hazard. 


346  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

do  so."  And  it  was  asked  who  the  spirit  was,  and  R.  Johanan 
said,  it  was  the  spirit  of  Naboth ;  and  Rabh  said  that  by  saying, 
"  Go  forth,"  the  Lord  meant  to  expel  the  spirit  from  within  His 
abode.  Perhaps  the  reason  for  expelling  the  spirit  was  because 
it  is  written  [Psalms  ci.  /]:  "  He  that  speaketh  falsehoods  shall 
not  succeed  before  my  eyes."  Therefore  we  must  say  that  the 
basis  for  R.  Jacob  is  the  following.  It  is  written  [Proverbs  xvii. 
26]:  "  To  punish  the  just  with  a  fine  even  is  not  good."  (This 
is  explained  to  signify,  that  even  punishment  through  a  just  man 
is  not  good.)  What  is  not  good  is  certainly  evil,  and  it  is  writ- 
ten [Psalms  V.  5]:  "  For  thou  art  not  a  God  that  hath  pleasure 
in  wickedness:  evil  cannot  abide  with  thee";  and  this  means, 
that  "  because  Thou,  God,  art  righteous,  evil  cannot  remain  in 
Thy  abode." 

They  may  draw  lots,''  etc.  How  do  we  know  that  the  word 
"  Choloshim  "  *  means  lots?  It  is  written  [Isaiah  xiv.  12]: 
"  How  art  thou  fallen  from  heaven,  O  morning-star,  son  of  the 
dawn !  how  art  thou  hewn  down  to  the  ground,  crusher  of  na- 
tions! "  ("  Crusher"  is  expressed  by  the  word  "  Cholesh,"  and 
the  inference  is  made  from  the  supposition  that  lots  were  cast 
which  nation  was  to  be  crushed  first.) 

It  is  written  [Daniel  iv.  33]:  "  And  additional  greatness  was 
added  unto  me."  What  was  that  additional  greatness  ?  Said 
R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  R.  Jeremiah  bar  Aba:  "  From  this 
we  can  infer,  that  he  (Nebuchadnezzar)  rode  a  male  lion  and 
twisted  a  snake  round  the  lion's  head,  to  verify  what  is  written 
[Jeremiah  xxvii.  6]:  'And  also  the  beasts  of  the  field  have  I 
given  him  to  serve  him.'  " 

MISHNA:  One  must  not  hire  laborers  on  the  Sabbath,  nor 
may  he  commission  another  man  to  hire  them  for  him.  One 
must  not  stand  at  the  extreme  limit  of  the  "  techoom  "  f  and 
wait  for  dusk  (the  end  of  Sabbath),  in  order  to  hire  laborers 
(beyond  the  techoom),  or  gather  fruit  beyond  it ;  but  if  watching 
fruit  beyond  the  techoom,  he  may  await  the  dusk  at  its  extreme 
limit,  and  in  that  case  bring  the  fruit  back  with  him.  Abba 
Saul  laid  down  the  rule:  "  Whatever  I  am  permitted  to  prepare 
for  the  day  following  the  Sabbath,  on  the  Sabbath,  I  may  get 
ready  for  at  dusk." 

*  The  term  "  casting  lots"  is  expressed  in  the  Mishna  by  the  word  "  Choloshim" 
and  the  root  of  the  word  "  Choloshim  "  is  "  Cholosh,"  and  has  a  variety  of  meanings. 

f  By  "  techoom  "  is  meant  the  distance  of  2,000  ells  which  a  man  may  traverse 
on  the  Sabbath,  and  refers  to  the  limits  of  that  distance. 


TRACT    SABBATH. 


347 


GEMARA:  What  is  the  difference  between  a  man  and  his 
neighbor?  The  Mishna  teaches  he  should  not  hire  laborers  on 
Sabbath  nor  commission  another  man  to  hire  them  for  him?  Is 
this  not  self-evident  ?  His  neighbor  is  also  a  Jew.  Said  R. 
Papa:  "  That  refers  to  a  Gentile  neighbor."  R.  Ashi  opposed 
this,  and  said:  "  The  prohibition  to  commission  a  Gentile  to  do 
something  on  a  Sabbath  is  merely  rabbinical,  for  the  sake  of  the 
Sabbath  rest  (Shbhuth),*  and  to  hire  laborers  on  the  Sabbath  is 
also  prohibited  only  by  rabbinical  law.  How  then  can  one  rab- 
binical law  be  supplemented  by  another  of  the  same  character? 
Hence  I  may  say,  that  the  Mishna  refers  to  a  Jewish  neighbor 
and  should  be  explained  thus:  A  man  must  not  commission  him 
to  hire  laborers  on  Sabbath,  but  he  may  say  to  him,  '  Come  to 
me  after  dusk  and  we  will  do  something  together.'  The  Mishna 
is  in  accordance  with  the  opinion  of  R.  Jehoshua  ben  Kar'ha,  as 
we  have  learned  elsewhere:  A  man  must  not  say  to  his  neighbor, 
'  I  would  like  to  see  thee  after  dusk  for  the  purpose  of  talking 
business,'  and  R.  Jehoshua  ben  Kar'ha  says  he  may  do  so,  and 
Rabba  bar  bar  Hana  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  taught,  that 
the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Jeshoshua  ben  Kar'ha." 

Rabba  bar  bar  Hana  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  said  again: 
"  What  reason  did  R.  Jehoshua  ben  Kar'ha  have  for  saying  so? 
Because  it  is  written  [Isaiah  Iviii.  13]:  '  By  not  following  thy 
own  business,  and  speaking  vain  words.'  It  is  not  allowed  to 
speak,  but  surely  thinking  is  permitted!  " 

R.  A'ha  bar  R.  Huna  asked  Rabha  concerning  the  following 
contradiction:  "  How  can  we  say,  R.  Johanan  states,  that  though 
it  is  not  allowed  to  speak  it  is  allowed  to  think ;  did  not  Rabba 
bar  bar  Hana  say  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan,  that  everywhere 
it  is  allowed  to  think,  excepting  in  a  bathhouse  and  a  toilet- 
room,  for  where  it  is  not  allowed  to  speak  of  the  Law  it  is  also 
not  allowed  to  think  of  it  ? "  "  In  that  case  it  is  different,  for  it 
is  written  [Deuteronomy  xxiii.  15]:  'Therefore  shall  thy  camp 
be  holy,'  and  a  bathhouse  and  a  toilet-room  cannot  be  holy; 
hence  thinking  of  the  Law  in  those  places  is  not  allowed," 
Speaking  of  other  things  except  the  Law  is  not  permitted  (on 
Sabbath).  Did  not  R.  Hisda  and  R.  Hamnuna  both  say,  that  it 
is  allowed  to  count  up  charitable  disbursements  on  Sabbath; 
and  R.  Elazar  say,  that  one  may  figure  out  amounts  to  be  dis- 
tributed among  the  poor  (on  Sabbath);  and  R.  Jacob  bar  Idi  say 


*  See  Introduction  to  Tract  Sabbath,  p.  xxii. 


348  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan,  that  all  things  pertaining  to  the  sav- 
ing of  human  beings  or  the  affairs  of  the  community  may  be 
discussed  on  Sabbath,  and  that  it  is  allowed  to  go  to  the  school- 
houses  and  call  meetings  for  deliberation  upon  the  community's 
business;  and  R.  Samuel  bar  Nahmeni  say  in  the  name  of  R. 
Johanan,  that  even  halls  may  be  visited  for  the  purpose  of  call- 
ing business  meetings  together;  and  the  disciples  of  Menasseh 
say,  that  betrothal  of  daughters  may  be  discussed  and  the  advis- 
ability of  choosing  a  profession  for  a  child  may  be  deliberated 
upon,  on  the  Sabbath  ?  The  passage  cited  in  the  Law  states, 
that"  following  thy  business"  is  prohibited,  but  affairs  sanc- 
tioned by  Heaven  may  be  discussed  (and  all  the  above  affairs 
are  pleasing  to  the  Lord). 

R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  "Accounts  con- 
cerning which  advice  is  requested  by  others  and  which  have  no 
bearing  upon  one's  own  business  may  be  figured  on  the  Sab- 
bath." The  following  Boraitha  is  cited  in  support  of  this: 
"  Accounts  of  disbursements  in  the  past  and  of  future  expendi- 
tures must  not  be  calculated  on  the  Sabbath ;  but  such  as  are  of 
no  importance,  and  concerning  which  advice  was  asked,  may  be 
calculated."  Is  the  following  Boraitha  not  contradictory  to  the 
one  cited  ?  "  Accounts  which  are  of  no  importance  at  all  may 
be  calculated  on  Sabbath,  but  not  such  as  are  of  importance." 
How  so  ?  A  man  may  say  to  his  neighbor,  "  I  have  hired  so 
much  labor  to  cultivate  a  certain  field,"  or  "  I  have  expended 
so  many  Dinars  on  such  a  dwelling,"  but  he  must  not  say,  "  I 
have  expended  so  much  and  must  expend  so  much  more." 
(The  contradiction  arises  from  the  fact  that  in  the  previous  Bo- 
raitha it  is  prohibited  to  calculate  disbursements  made  in  the 
past,  while  in  the  last  Boraitha  it  is  permitted.)  But  according 
to  your  opinion,  why  not  cite  the  contradiction  occurring  in  the 
previous  Boraitha  itself;  viz.:  Firstly,  it  is  said  that  disburse- 
ments of  the  past  must  not  be  calculated,  and  then,  that  ac- 
counts of  no  value  may  be  figured  ?  This  presents  no  contra- 
diction at  all  (neither  in  the  previous  Boraitha  itself,  nor  from 
one  to  the  other).  If  the  disbursements  of  the  past  have 
already  been  made  and  nothing  is  owing,  then  the  accounts  of 
same  are  of  no  value  and  may  be  spoken  of  on  the  Sabbath ;  but 
if  any  amount  of  such  expenditures  is  still  due,  then  it  becomes 
an  important  account  and  must  not  be  discussed, 

"  One  must  not  stand  at  the  extreme  limit  of  the  '  techoom,'  " 
etc.     The  rabbis  taught :  It  once  happened  that  the  fence  of  the 


TRACT   SABBATH.  349 

field  belonging  to  a  pious  man  was  broken,  and  noticing  it  on  a 
Sabbath,  he  was  about  to  mend  it,  when  he  recollected  that  it 
was  Sabbath ;  so  he  left  it.  A  miracle  occurred,  and  kaffir-corn 
began  to  sprout  in  the  place  of  the  broken  fence  and  furnished 
him  and  his  family  with  their  sustenance.  R.  Jehudah  said  in 
the  name  of  Samuel:  "  A  man  may  say  to  his  neighbor,  '  To- 
morrow I  intend  to  go  to  a  certain  town. '  Why  may  he  say 
this  ?  Because,  if  there  are  huts  on  the  road  to  that  town  at 
distances  of  seventy  ells  apart,  he  may  even  go  on  Sabbath ; 
hence,  though  there  be  no  huts  on  the  road,  he  may  say  that  he 
intends  going  on  the  morrow," 

An  objection  was  made,  based  upon  our  Mishna;  viz. :  "  One 
must  not  stand  at  the  extreme  limit  of  the  techoom  and  wait 
for  dusk  in  order  to  hire  laborers  or  gather  fruit."  It  would  be 
quite  right,  if  the  hiring  of  laborers  only  was  concerned ;  for  a 
thing  which  must  not  be  done  on  Sabbath  must  not  be  waited 
for  at  the  techoom ;  but  as  for  gathering  fruit,  if  there  were 
walls  around  the  town,  that  would  be  permitted  ?  Why,  then, 
should  it  be  prohibited  to  wait  at  the  techoom  until  dusk?  This 
may  refer  to  fruit  which  was  still  attached  to  the  ground  (and 
could  not  be  gathered  on  Sabbath  even  if  the  town  had  walls). 
How  can  this  be  said  ?  Have  we  not  learned  that  R.  Oshea 
taught:  "  One  must  not  wait  at  the  techoom  to  bring  straw  and 
chaff."  It  would  be  correct  concerning  straw  which  is  still 
attached  to  the  ground;  but  how  can  this  apply  to  chaff?  This 
may  refer  to  chaff  which  is  used  to  mix  with  loam,  and  hence 
was  designated  for  building  purposes. 

Another  objection  was  made!  Come  and  hear:  We  have 
learned  in  the  succeeding  Mishna,  that  nightfall  may  be  awaited 
at  the  techoom  in  the  case  of  a  bride  and  corpse ;  hence  for  other 
purposes  one  must  not  await  nightfall  at  the  techoom.  It  would 
be  quite  right  if  it  said,  in  the  case  of  things  pertaining  to  a 
bride,  for  instance  to  cut  off  a  myrtle-branch ;  but  what  things 
can  be  done  pertaining  to  a  corpse  ?  Only  the  bringing  of  the 
coffin  and  the  shroud  ?  Why,  then,  should  a  man  not  be  al- 
lowed to  bring  things  which  are  the  equivalent  of  the  necessaries 
pertaining  to  a  corpse  ?  for  if  there  were  walls  surrounding  the 
town,  he  would  be  allowed  to  bring  them.  Why,  then,  should 
he  not  be  permitted  to  wait  at  the  techoom  for  the  purpose  of 
bringing  them  ?  Because  the  case  may  be,  that  things  (as 
shrouds)  pertaining  to  the  corpse  were  not  already  prepared,  but 
must  be  cut. 

VOL.  11. — II 


350  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

"  But  if  watching  fruit  beyond  the  techoom,  he  may  await  the 
dusk,''  etc.  May  he  do  this  even  if  he  had  not  yet  recited  the 
Habhdalah  prayer  ?  Why !  R.  Elazar  ben  Antignous  said  in  the 
name  of  R.  Elazar  ben  Jacob,  that  a  man  must  not  transact  his 
business  at  the  close  of  Sabbath,  before  reciting  the  Habhdalah 
prayer.  And  if  it  be  that  he  said  the  Habhdalah  prayer  while 
reciting  the  evening  prayer,  did  not  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of 
Samuel  say,  that  even  if  a  man  included  the  Habhdalah  prayer  in 
the  evening  prayer,  he  must  say  it  again  over  the  goblet  of  wine  ? 
Should  it  then  be  said,  that  he  said  the  prayer  over  the  goblet 
also;  how  could  he  have  done  that  in  a  field?  This  case  refers 
to  the  time  of  wine-pressing  (when  it  is  possible  to  obtain  a 
goblet  of  wine  even  in  the  field) ;  such  is  the  explanation  of  R. 
Nathan  bar  Ami  to  Rabh.  Said  R.  Aba  to  R.  Ashi:  "  In  the 
West  (Palestine)  we  simply  say  the  benediction,  *  Blessed  be  he, 
etc.,  who  distinguishes  between  holy  and  ordinary  days,'  and  go 
right  to  work."  And  R.  Ashi  said:  "  When  we  were  in  the 
house  of  R.  Kahana,  he  would  pronounce  the  same  benediction, 
and  we  would  go  and  chop  wood." 

''Abba  Saul  laid  down  the  rule,''  etc.  Concerning  what 
clause  of  the  Mishna  does  Abba  Saul  lay  down  this  rule  ?  Shall 
we  assume  that  he  refers  to  the  first  clause  of  the  Mishna,  which 
decrees,  that  one  must  not  stand  at  the  extreme  limit  of  the 
techoom  and  wait  for  dusk,  and  thus  applies  his  rule  ?  Then, 
instead  of  saying,  "  Whatever  I  am  permitted  to  prepare,"  etc., 
he  should  have  said  in  the  negative,  "  Whatever  I  am  not  per- 
mitted to  say  to  another  man  he  should  do  for  me,  I  must  not 
wait  at  the  techoom  to  do  myself."  If  we  assume,  however, 
that  the  rule  refers  to  the  latter  clause  of  the  Mishna,  namely, 
"but  if  watching  fruit,  he  may  await  the  dusk,"  etc.,  then 
Abba  should  have  applied  his  rule  to  the  contrary;  viz. :  "  What- 
ever I  am  permitted  to  wait  for  at  the  techoom,  I  may  tell 
another  man  to  do  for  me."  Abba  Saul  applies  his  rule  to  the 
latter  clause  of  the  Mishna,  and  he  refers  to  the  following  dic- 
tum of  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel,  viz.:  "  A  man  may 
say  to  his  neighbor:  '  Watch  my  fruit  which  is  in  your  vicinity, 
and  I  will  watch  such  of  yours  as  is  in  my  vicinity.*  "  This  is 
commented  upon  by  Abba  Saul,  addressing  the  first  Tana  as 
follows:  "  You  certainly  admit  that  a  man  may  say  to  his  neigh- 
bor, '  Watch  my  fruit  in  thy  vicinity  and  I  will  watch  thine  in 
my  vicinity.'  Now,  say,  '  Whatever  I  am  permitted  to  tell  my 
neighbor  to  do,  I  am  also  permitted  to  wait  for  at  the  techoom 


TRACT    SABBATH.  351 

to  do  It  myself.'  "  What  does  Abba  Saul  intend  to  supplement 
by  laying  down  a  rule?  He  means  to  add  what  was  taught  by 
the  rabbis,  as  follows: 

One  must  not  wait  at  the  techoom  to  bring  home  a  stray 
animal;  but  if  it  is  seen  from  the  limits  of  the  techoom,  it  may 
be  called,  so  that  it  will  come  to  within  the  techoom  by  itself. 
To  this  Abba  Saul  applied  the  rule,  that  if  one  may  call  to  the 
animal,  he  may  also  wait  at  the  techoom  limits  until  dusk  and 
bring  it  in  himself.  A  man  may  also  wait  at  the  techoom  limits 
to  forward  what  is  necessary  for  a  bride ;  and  also  what  is  neces- 
sary for  a  corpse,  to  bring  a  cofifin  and  shrouds  for  him ;  and  we 
may  say  to  him:  "  Go  to  a  certain  place  and  take  it ;  and  if  thou 
dost  not  find  it  in  that  place,  go  to  another  place;  and  if  thou 
canst  not  buy  it  for  one  hundred  Zuz,  buy  it  for  two  hundred." 
R.  Jose  the  son  of  R.  Jehudah  said:  "  One  must  not  specify 
the  amount  the  necessaries  are  to  be  bought  for,  but  merely  say, 
'  If  thou  canst  not  get  it  for  little  money,  get  it  for  more.'  " 

MISHNA:  One  may  await  the  dusk  at  the  limits  of  the 
techoom,  to  furnish  what  is  necessary  for  a  bride  and  for  a 
corpse,  and  to  bring  a  cofifin  and  shrouds  for  the  latter.  If  a 
Gentile  brought  mourning  fifes  on  the  Sabbath,  an  Israelite  must 
not  play  (mourn)  on  them,  unless  they  be  brought  from  the 
vicinity.  If  a  cofTin  had  been  made  and  a  grave  dug  for  him  (on 
the  Sabbath),  an  Israelite  may  be  buried  therein ;  but  if  it  was 
done  on  purpose  for  an  Israelite,  he  must  not  at  any  time  be 
buried  therein. 

GEMARA:  What  does  the  Mishna  mean  by  saying,  "  unless 
they  be  brought  from  the  vicinity  "  ?  Rabh  said:  "  By  that  is 
meant  a  place  within  sight,  where  one  is  positive  that  it  was 
within  the  limits  of  the  techoom."  Samuel  said:  "  Even  if  it  is 
not  positively  known  that  they  came  from  within  the  limits  of 
the  techoom,  but  where  it  is  presumed  that  such  is  the  case,  the 
fifes  maybe  used."  Our  Mishna  seems  to  be  in  accord  with 
Samuel's  explanation,  because  it  says  in  the  next  clause,  "  If  a 
coflfiin  had  been  made  and  a  grave  dug  for  him,  an  Israelite  may 
be  buried  therein,"  and  it  does  not  say  positively  that  the  two 
things  were  done  for  a  Gentile ;  hence  we  see,  that  where  an 
object  is  doubtful,  we  may  presume  that  it  is  allowed.  Thus  in 
the  case  of  the  fifes,  if  there  is  a  doubt  as  to  whence  they  were 
brought,  they  may  nevertheless  be  used  by  an  Israelite.  We 
have  learned  in  a  Boraitha,  however,  a  support  to  Rabh's 
opinion ;  viz. : 


352  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

A  city  which  contains  both  Israelites  and  Gentiles,  and  there 
is  a  bathhouse  there  which  is  heated  on  the  Sabbath,  if  the  ma- 
jority of  the  inhabitants  are  Gentiles  an  Israelite  may  go  there 
immediately  after  sunset  on  the  Sabbath.  If  there  are  more 
Israelites  than  Gentiles  there,  the  Israelite  must  wait  the  length 
of  time  required  to  heat  water  afresh  before  going  to  the  bath- 
house ;  and  the  same  is  the  case  in  a  city  where  there  is  an  equal 
number  of  Jews  and  Gentiles.  (This  is  a  support  to  Rabh,  be- 
cause, though  it  is  doubtful  whether  the  bath  was  heated  for  a 
Jew  or  a  Gentile,  still,  the  Israelite  must  wait.)  R.  Jehudah 
said:  "  If  the  capacity  of  the  bath  be  limited  (so  that  water  be 
heated  quickly)  and  a  notable  man  be  present,  the  Israelite  need 
not  wait."  What  is  meant  by  a  notable  man?  Said  R.  Jehu- 
dah in  the  name  of  R.  Itz'hak  the  son  of  R.  Jehudah:  "  If 
there  was  a  man  present  who  had  ten  servants,  who  could  heat 
ten  jars  of  water  at  the  same  time,  an  Israelite  might  go  and 
bathe  himself."  * 

"  If  a  coffin  had  been  made  and  a  grave  dug  for  Mm, ' '  etc. 
Why  should  we  not  wait  until  the  length  of  time  in  which  a 
new  grave  can  be  dug  elapses?  Said  Ula  :  "  This  refers  to  a 
paved  way,  where  a  grave  is  seldom  dug  for  an  Israelite  (hence 
it  must  have  been  dug  for  a  Gentile)."  What  can  be  said  in  ref- 
erence to  the  cofifin  ?  Said  R.  Abuha:  "  If  the  cof^n  lie  on  the 
same  grave." 

MISHNA:  One  may  do  all  that  is  necessary  for  a  corpse  (on 
Sabbath),  anoint  and  wash  it,  provided  he  does  not  dislocate  its 
limbs.  The  pillow  may  be  moved  from  under  its  head;  the 
corpse  may  be  put  on  sand,  in  order  to  keep  it  (from  putrefying) 
the  longer;  its  jaws  maybe  tied,  not  for  the  sake  of  bringing 
them  together  more  closely,  but  to  prevent  them  from  dropping  / 
lower.  In  like  manner,  a  beam  that  had  been  broken  may  be 
upheld  by  a  stool  or  bedstead,  not  in  order  to  make  it  erect 
again,  but  to  keep  it  from  breaking  still  more. 

GEMARA:  Did  not  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel 
say,  that  it  once  happened  that  a  disciple  of  R.  Meir,  while  en- 
tering behind  his  master  into  the  bathhouse,  wished  to  rinse  off 
a  place  for  his  master  to  sit  down,  and  his  master  would  not  per- 
mit it;  so'he  wanted  to  grease  the  steps  with  oil,  but  the  master 
said  that  the  floor  must  not  be  oiled?  Hence  we  see,  that  a 
thing   which   must    not  be  handled  must  not  be  anointed  or 

*  Others  say  that  this  above  Boraitha  really  supports  Samuel  on  account  of  R. 
Jehudah,  and  Rashi  remarks  that  he  finds  that  the  more  plausible  supposition. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  353 

washed.  How  then  is  it  permitted  to  wash  and  anoint  a  corpse  ? 
If  the  floor  of  a  bathhouse  be  allowed  to  be  washed,  there  is  fear 
lest  another  floor  will  be  washed  also  (and  thus  smoothen  any 
holes  which  maybe  in  the  floor);  but  a  corpse  and  a  floor  cannot 
be  confounded,  and  it  is  allowed  to  wash  and  anoint  a  corpse  out 
of  respect  to  the  dead. 

What  is  meant  to  be  supplemented  by  "  all  that  is  necessary 
for  a  corpse"  ?  They  meant  to  add  what  was  taught  by  the 
rabbis;  viz. :  "  One  may  bring  vessels  for  cooling  the  corpse,  or 
iron  vessels  may  be  put  on  the  belly  of  the  corpse  to  keep  it 
from  swelling,  and  one  may  stop  up  any  holes  in  the  corpse  to 
keep  the  air  from  entering." 

MISHNA:  One  must  not  close  the  eyes  of  the  dead  on  the 
Sabbath,  nor  (even)  on  the  week-day,  while  he  is  expiring. 
Whoever  closes  the  eyes  of  a  dying  person  the  instant  he  expires, 
is  equal  to  the  man  who  sheds  blood  (like  a  murderer). 

GEMARA :  The  rabbis  taught :  Who  closes  the  eyes  of  a 
dying  man  is  like  a  murderer,  for  it  is  the  same  as  a  candle  which 
is  about  to  go  out.  If  a  man  lays  a  finger  on  the  flame,  it  im- 
mediately becomes  extinguished,  but  if  left  alone  would  still 
burn  for  a  little  time.  The  same  can  be  applied  to  the  case  of 
an  expiring  man;  if  his  eyes  were  not  closed,  he  would  live  a 
little  longer,  and  hence  it  is  like  murder. 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel 
said:  "  One  who  wishes  that  the  eyes  of  a  corpse  should  close, 
should  inject  wine  into  the  nostrils  of  the  corpse  and  anoint  the 
eyelids  with  a  little  oil,  and  then  pull  the  big  toes  of  the  feet, 
when  the  eyelids  will  close  of  themselves." 

We  have  learned  in  another  Boraitha:  "  One  should  violate 
the  Sabbath  even  for  a  child  of  one  day,  if  it  still  have  life ;  but 
for  a  corpse,  even  be  it  that  of  David,  King  of  Israel,  the  Sab- 
bath must  not  be  violated."  The  reason  for  this  is:  For  a  child 
of  even  one  day,  the  Sabbath  should  be  violated,  saith  the 
Thorah,  in  order  that  it  may  keep  many  Sabbaths  in  the  future ; 
but  David,  King  of  Israel,  when  dead,  can  keep  no  more  com- 
mandments. This  is  in  accord  with  the  saying  of  R.  Johanan ; 
viz. :  It  is  written  [Psalms  Ixxxviii.  6]  :  "  Free  among  the  dead," 
etc. ;  which  means,  that  when  a  man  is  dead,  he  is  free  from 
keeping  any  commandments. 

We  have  also  learned  in  a  Boraitha :  R.  Simeon  ben  Elazar 
said :  A  child  of  a  day  need  not  be  guarded  from  the  attacks  of 
cats  and  dogs,  but  even  when  Og  the  King  of  Bashan  is  dead  he 


354  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

must  be  guarded,  as  it  is  written  [Genesis  ix.  2] :  "  And  the  fear 
of  you  and  the  dread  of  you  shall  be  upon  every  beast  of  the 
earth,"  etc.  Hence,  as  long  as  a  man  lives,  the  beasts  are  in 
dread  of  him ;  but  as  soon  as  he  is  dead,  the  fear  is  destroyed. 

We  have  learned  in  another  Boraitha:  R.  Simeon  ben  Elazar 
said:  As  long  as  thou  canst,  practise  charity:  as  long  as  thou 
hast  the  opportunity  and  as  long  as  it  is  in  thy  hands.  For  Sol- 
omon said  in  his  wisdom  [Ecclesiastes  xii.  i] :  "  But  remember 
also  thy  Creator  in  the  days  of  thy  youthful  vigor,  while  the  evil 
days  (meaning  old  age)  are  not  yet  come,  nor  those  years  draw 
nigh  of  which  thou  wilt  say,  I  have  no  pleasure  in  them."  By 
that  is  meant,  the  days  of  the  Messiah,  because  at  that  time 
there  will  be  neither  rich  nor  poor :  all  will  be  rich  (and  no  op- 
portunity for  charity  will  present  itself).  This  differs  with  the 
teaching  of  Samuel,  who  says,  that  there  is  no  difference  between 
the  present  time  and  the  days  of  Messiah,  only  that  one  is  sub- 
ject to  the  government  at  the  present  time,  while  then  it  will  not 
be  so,  as  it  is  written  [Deut.  xv.  11]  :  "  For  the  needy  will  not 
cease  out  of  the  land." 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  R.  Elazar  Hakappar  said:  A 
man  should  always  pray  for  deliverance  from  poverty,  although 
if  he  himself  will  not  eventually  come  to  poverty,  his  children 
or  his  grandchildren  will,  as  it  is  written  [Deut.  xv.  11]:  "  For 
the  needy  will  not  cease  out  of  the  land,  therefore  do  I  com- 
mand thee,"  etc.  (The  Hebrew  term  for  "therefore"  is 
"  Biglal,"  and  the  school  of  Ishmael  taught  that  Biglal  is  the 
equivalent  of  Galgal,  meaning  a  "  wheel,"  thus  inferring,  from 
that  word,  that  poverty  is  like  a  wheel,  always  turning  from  one 
to  the  other.) 

R.  Joseph  said:  "  There  is  a  tradition  extant,  that  a  diligent 
young  scholar  will  never  become  poor."  But  we  see  that  he 
sometimes  does  become  poor  ?  Still,  we  have  never  seen  one  so 
poor  that  he  had  to  beg  his  bread  from  house  to  house. 

Said  R.  Hyya  to  his  wife:  "  If  thou  seest  a  man  about  to 
beg  bread  from  thee,  hasten  to  give  it  to  him,  that  he  might  at 
some  other  time  do  likewise  for  thy  children. "  Said  she  to 
him:  "  Art  thou  cursing  thy  children  ?"  "  Nay;  I  am  simply 
quoting  the  verse  above,  as  interpreted  by  the  school  of  Ishmael, 
that  poverty  is  a  wheel  continually  turning." 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha :  Rabbon  Gamaliel  the  Great  * 

*  This  means  Gamaliel  the  Second,  who  was  the  Nassi  in  Jamnia,  and  he  is 
entitled  "  the  Great "  in  many  places. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  355 

said  thus:  "It  is  written  [Deut.  xvii.  r8]:  "And  grant  thee 
mercy  and  have  mercy  upon  thee,  and  multiply  thee,"  etc.  This 
means  to  say,  that  one  who  hath  mercy  upon  creatures  will  be 
granted  mercy  from  above,  but  one  who  hath  not  mercy  upon 
other  creatures  will  not  be  granted  mercy  from  above. 

It  is  written  [Ecclesiastes  xii.  2]  :  "  While  the  sun,  and  the 
light,  and  the  moon,  and  the  stars  are  not  yet  darkened."  The 
sun  and  the  light  are  compared  to  the  brow  and  the  nose,  the 
moon  to  the  soul,  the  stars  to  the  cheeks;  and  further,  the  verse 
reads:  "  And  the  clouds  return  not  again  after  the  rain,"  which 
means,  that  after  weeping  the  eyes  become  dim.  (The  entire 
verse  is,  according  to  this  interpretation,  not  applicable  to  the 
end  of  the  world  but  to  a  human  life.) 

Samuel  said:  "  Up  to  forty  years  of  age,  the  eyes  of  a  man 
which  have  become  dim  through  tears  may  yet  be  restored  by 
different  remedies,  but  beyond  that  age  there  is  no  remedy  for 
them  ";  and  R.  Na'hman  said:  "The  dye  used  for  the  eyes 
makes  them  brighter  until  a  man  is  forty  years  of  age ;  after  that 
age,  however,  it  may  preserve  the  eyes,  but  does  not  help  them, 
even  if  the  eyes  are  filled  with  dye."  What  are  we  given  to 
understand  by  this  statement  ?  We  are  told  that,  the  larger  the 
brush  used  for  applying  the  dye  to  the  eye,  the  better  it  is  for 
the  eyes. 

One  of  R.  Hanina's  daughters  died,  and  he  did  not  weep 
over  her  death.  Said  his  wife  to  him  :  "  Was  a  hen  carried  out 
of  thy  house?"  "Is  it  not  sufificient  that  our  child  died; 
wouldst  thou  have  me  lose  my  eyes  through  weeping  ? "  replied 
R.  Hanina;  and  he  is  of  the  opinion  of  R.  Johanan,  who  said 
in  the  name  of  R.  Jose  ben  Katzartha:  "  There  are  six  kinds  of 
tears  in  the  eyes,  three  of  which  are  good  for  the  eyes  and  three 
bad.  Tears  generated  by  smoke,  weeping,  or  disorder  of  the 
bowels  are  bad  for  the  eyes ;  but  those  that  are  caused  through 
laughing,  acrid  fruits  (such  as  mustard),  and  medicaments  which 
are  applied  to  produce  tears,  are  good  for  the  eyes." 

It  is  written  [Ecclesiastes  xii.  3]:  "On  the  day  when  the 
watchmen  of  the  house  will  tremble  ":  this  refers  to  the  bowels 
and  the  sides  which  protect  the  bowels;  "  the  men  of  might  will 
bend  themselves,"  meaning  the  legs  of  the  man;  "  and  those  be 
darkened  that  look  through  the  windows,"  refers  to  the  eyes. 

Caesar  asked  of  R.  Jehoshua  ben  Hananiah :  "Why  didst 
thou  not  come  to  the  debating  rooms?"  and  he  answered: 
"  The  mountain  is  covered  with  snow  "  (meaning  his  head  was 


356  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

gray),  "  the  surrounding  paths  are  icy  '*  (meaning  his  beard  was 
gray),  "  the  dogs  do  not  bark  any  more  "  (meaning  his  voice  was 
inaudible),  "  and  the  millstones  grind  no  more"  (meaning  his 
teeth  were  decayed). 

The  school  of  Rabh  would  say  of  an  old  man:  "  He  hath 
lost  nothing  and  is  constantly  seeking  "  (meaning  that  he  was 
always  bowed  down). 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha :  R.  Jose  bar  Kisma  said : 
"  Two  are  better  than  three"  (referring  to  two  legs,  instead  of 
two  legs  and  a  stick).  "  Woe  is  to  the  one  who  goeth  away  and 
doth  not  return,"  so  said  he.  What  does  he  mean  by  it  ?  Said 
R.  Hisda:  "Youth." 

When  R.  Dimi  came  from  Palestine,  he  said:  "Youth  is  a 
crown  of  roses,  and  old  age  a  crown  of  thorns." 

We  have  learned  in  the  name  of  R.  Meir:  Be  heedful  of 
thy  teeth  and  thou  wilt  show  it  in  thy  step,  as  it  is  written  [Jer- 
emiah xliv.  17]:  "  When  we  had  plenty  of  food  and  fared  well 
and  saw  no  evil."  Said  Samuel  to  his  disciple  R.  Jehudah: 
"Thou  sagacious  man!  When  thou  goest  to  eat,  untie  thy 
stomacher  and  bring  in  thy  bread !  Before  the  age  of  forty,  eat- 
ing is  more  wholesome;  but  after  that,  drinking  is  better." 

A  eunuch  (who  was  a  Sadducee)  said  to  R.  Jehoshua,  who 
was  bald-headed,  with  the  intent  to  tease  him:  "  How  far  is  it 
from  here  to  Bald  city?"  and  he  answered:  "Just  as  far  as 
from  here  to  Castrate  city."  The  eunuch  said  again:  "  I  no- 
ticed that  a  bald  goat  only  cost  four  Zuz  "  ;  and  R.  Jehoshua 
said:  "Yea!  and  I  noticed  that  the  privates  which  were  cut 
away  from  a  he-goat  cost  eight  Zuz."  The  eunuch  noticed  that 
R.  Jehoshua  did  not  wear  shoes,  and  said:  "  He  who  rides  a 
horse  is  a  king,  he  who  rides  an  ass  is  a  nobleman,  he  who 
wears  shoes  is  at  least  a  man,  but  he  who  does  not  even  wear 
shoes  is  worse  off  than  a  corpse  in  his  grave."  Said  R.  Je- 
hoshua: "  Thou  eunuch!  Thou  hast  told  me  three  things,  and 
three  things  thou  shalt  presently  hear  from  me :  The  beauty  of 
the  face  is  a  beard,  the  joy  of  the  heart  is  a  wife,  and  God's  in- 
heritance is  children.  Blessed  be  the  place  that  has  kept  thee 
from  all  these  joys."  The  eunuch  retorted:  "  Thou  bald-head! 
Wouldst  thou  quarrel  with  me!"  and  R.  Jehoshua  replied: 
"  Thou  eunuch!     Thou  camest  to  tease  me.'* 

Rabbi  said  to  R.  Simeon  the  son  of  Halaphta:  "  Why  did 
we  not  have  the  pleasure  of  thy  company  on  the  festivals,  as 
our  parents  had  the  pleasure  of  thy  parents'  company  ? "  and  he 


TRACT    SABBATH.  357 

answered:  "  The  hills  have  become  mountains,  those  who  were 
near  have  become  distant,  two  have  become  three,  and  the 
peacemaker  of  the  house  is  gone"  (meaning,  "  I  have  become 
old,  can  make  but  short  steps,  must  have  a  cane  to  lean  on,  and 
my  teeth  are  gone  "). 

It  is  written  [Ecclesiastes  xii.  4] :  "  And  when  the  two  doors 
on  the  streets  will  be  locked,  while  the  sound  of  the  mill  be- 
cometh  dull,  and  man  riseth  up  at  the  voice  of  the  bird  "  ;  and 
means,  that  in  old  age  a  man's  stomach  refuses  to  digest  and  he 
cannot  excrementize,  and  he  becomes  so  weak  that  the  least 
sound,  such  as  piping  of  a  bird,  will  awaken  him  from  his  slum- 
bers. Even  so  said  Barzillai  the  Gileadite  to  King  David  [II 
Samuel  xix.  36]:  "  I  am  eighty  years  old  this  day;  can  I  dis- 
cern between  good  and  evil  ? "  which  proves  to  us  that  the  mind 
of  an  old  man  changes;  and  further,  it  says:  "  Or  can  thy  ser- 
vant taste  what  I  eat  or  what  I  drink?"  From  this  we  see 
that  an  old  man's  sense  of  taste  is  lost;  and  further,  again: 
"  Or  can  I  listen  yet  to  the  voice  of  singing  men  and  sing- 
ing women  ?"  which  proves  to  us  that  old  men  become  hard 
of  hearing.  Said  Rabh :  "Barzillai  the  Gileadite  was  a  liar; 
for  the  servant  who  was  in  the  house  of  Rabbi  was  ninety- 
two  years  old,  and  she  would  taste  all  the  dishes  that  were 
being  cooked."  Said  Rabha:  "  Barzillai  was  a  lascivious  man, 
and  a  man  of  that  kind  ages  very  rapidly  and  loses  all  his 
senses." 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha :  R.  Ishmael  bar  R.  Jose  said : 
"  The  older  scholars  become,  the  more  wisdom  comes  to  them, 
as  it  is  written  [Job  xii.  12]  :  '  So  is  with  the  ancients  wisdom, 
and  with  those  of  length  of  days  understanding. '  With  ignorant 
men,  however,  it  is  different.  The  older  they  become,  the  more 
ignorant  they  are,  as  it  is  written  [ibid.  20] :  '  He  removeth  the 
speech  from  trusty  speakers  and  taketh  away  the  intelligence  of 
the  aged.'  " 

It  is  written  [Ecclesiastes  xii.  5] :  "  Also  when  men  will  be 
afraid  of  every  elevation."  To  an  aged  man,  even  a  little  hil- 
lock appears  as  a  high  mountain;  "and  are  terrified  on  every 
way,"  and  they  are  afraid  of  everything  on  their  way;  "and 
the  almond-tree  will  refuse  (its  blossom),"  meaning  that  the 
joints  of  the  limbs  will  refuse  to  do  their  duty;  "  and  the  locust 
will  drag  itself  slowly  along,  and  the  desire  will  gainsay  compli- 
ance," means  that  the  desires  of  old  men  wane. 

Said  R.  Kahana:  "  What  is  written  [Psalms  xxxiii.  9]  :  '  For 


358  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

he  spoke,  and  it  came  into  being,'  refers  to  a  woman;  and  '  he 
commanded,  and  it  stood  fast,'  refers  to  children." 

It  is  written  [Ecclesiastes  xii.  5]  :  "  Because  man  goeth  to 
his  eternal  home."  Said  R.  Itz'hak:  "  This  proves  that  every 
righteous  man  is  given  a  dwelling  in  the  world  to  come  according 
to  his  merit,  and  this  is  like  a  king  with  his  slaves  entering  a 
city.  They  all  enter  through  one  gate,  but  when  night  comes 
every  man  is  given  a  berth  in  accordance  with  his  rank." 

R.  Itz'hak  said  again:  "  It  is  written  [Ecclesiastes  xi.  10]: 
*  For  childhood  and  the  time  when  the  head  is  black*  are  van- 
ity,* and  means  to  say,  that  the  deeds  committed  in  youth 
blacken  the  reputation  in  old  age." 

R.  Itz'hak  said  again:  The  worms  are  as  disagreeable  to  a 
corpse  as  pricks  of  needles  are  to  a  man,  even  if  an  excrescence 
only  is  pricked,  as  it  is  written  [Job  xiv.  22] :  "  But  his  body  on 
him  feeleth  pain,  and  his  soul  will  mourn  for  him."  R.  Hisda 
said:  "  The  soul  of  a  man  mourns  for  him  the  first  seven  days 
after  his  death,  and  that  is  based  upon  an  analogy  of  expres- 
sion ;  viz.  :  It  is  written  [Genesis  1.  lo] :  '  And  he  made  for  his 
father  a  mourning  of  seven  days  ' ;  and  the  verse  in  Job  previ- 
ously quoted  also  contains  the  word  '  mourn,'  hence  the  anal- 
ogy." 

R.  Jehudah  said:  "  If  a  corpse  has  left  none  to  mourn  him, 
ten  men  should  go  to  the  place  where  he  died  and  mourn  his 
death."  A  stranger,  who  had  none  to  mourn  him,  died  in  the 
neighborhood  of  R.  Jehudah ;  so  every  day  R.  Jehudah  took 
ten  men,  went  to  the  place  where  the  stranger  died,  and  mourned 
for  him.  After  seven  days,  the  spirit  of  the  stranger  appeared 
to  R.  Jehudah  in  a  dream,  and  said  to  him :  "  May  thy  heart  be 
as  light  as  thou  hast  made  mine." 

Said  R.  Abuha:  "  All  that  is  said  in  the  presence  of  a  corpse 
is  known  to  the  latter,  until  he  is  buried  and  the  earth  is  thrown 
on  top  of  him."  R.  Hyya  and  R.  Simeon  bar  Rabbi  differ  con- 
cerning this:  One  says,  until  the  corpse  is  buried,  and  the  other, 
until  the  flesh  is  decomposed.  He  who  says  until  the  flesh  is 
decomposed,  bases  his  assertion  on  the  previously  cited  verse : 
"  But  his  body  on  him  feeleth  pain,  and  his  soul  will  mourn 
him."  The  other,  who  says  "  only  until  he  is  buried,"  bases 
his  assertion  upon  the  verse  [Ecclesiastes  xii.  7] :  "  When  the 


*  The  Hebrew  expression  for  "  the  time  when  the  head  is  black  "  is  "  Shachrus," 
meaning  blackness. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  359 

dust  will  return  to  the  earth  as  it  was,  and  the  spirit  will  return 
unto  God  who  gave  it." 

The  rabbis  taught:  "  Return  the  soul  to  the  Lord  as  clean  as 
He  gave  it  to  thee, ' '  This  is  illustrated  by  a  parable  of  a  king  who 
once  gave  to  his  attendants  suits  of  clothes.  The  wise  among 
them  took  care  of  them,  kept  them  clean  and  folded,  and  used 
them  on  special  occasions  only.  The  fools  put  them  on  and 
performed  their  work  in  them.  Naturally,  the  clothes  became 
dirty.  All  at  once,  the  king  demanded  the  clothes  back  again. 
The  wise  men  returned  them  clean  and  whole,  but  the  fools 
returned  them  in  a  dirty  and  dilapidated  condition.  The  king 
was  well  pleased  with  the  wise  men,  and  told  them  to  depart  in 
peace,  and  had  their  clothes  stored;  but  the  clothes  of  the  fools 
he  ordered  to  be  sent  to  the  washers,  and  the  fools  were  sent  to 
prison.  So  does  also  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He.  Concerning 
the  bodies  of  the  righteous  men,  He  saith  [Isaiah  Ivii.  2]:  "  He 
shall  come  in  peace:  they  shall  repose  in  their  resting-place"; 
and  concerning  the  souls  he  saith  [I  Samuel  xxv.  29]:  "  Yet  will 
the  soul  of  my  lord  be  bound  in  the  bond  of  life  with  the  Lord 
thy  God."  Concerning  the  bodies  of  the  wicked,  He  saith 
[Isaiah  Ixviii.  22]:  "There  is  no  peace,  saith  the  Lord,  unto 
the  wicked  "  ;  and  concerning  the  souls  of  the  wicked,  He  saith 
[I  Samuel  xxv.  29]:  "  And  the  soul  of  thy  enemies  will  he  hurl 
away,  as  out  of  the  middle  of  the  sling." 

We  have  learned:  R.  Eliezer  said:  "  The  souls  of  righteous 
men  are  deposited  underneath  the  throne  of  honor,  as  it  is  writ- 
ten: 'Yet  will  the  soul  of  my  lord  be  bound  in  the  bond  of 
life ' ;  and  the  souls  of  the  wicked  are  crowded  together  until 
they  are  crushed,  as  it  is  written:  '  The  souls  of  thy  enemies 
will  he  hurl  away.'  "  "  How  is  it  with  the  souls  of  men  who  are 
neither  righteous  nor  wicked?"  asked  Rabba  of  R,  Na'hman. 
He  answered:  "  If  I  were  dead,  ye  would  not  know  it."  Sam- 
uel said:  The  souls  of  the  righteous,  of  the  ordinary  men,  and 
of  the  wicked  are  given  over  to  the  angel  whose  name  is  Domah, 
who  has  charge  of  all  souls.  The  souls  of  the  righteous  are  given 
their  resting-place  soon ;  the  others  are  not  given  rest  until  they 
come  before  the  divine  judgment. 

Said  R.  Mari:  "The  bodies  of  righteous  men  also  decom- 
pose, as  it  is  written :  '  When  the  dust  will  return  to  the  earth, 
as  it  was.'  " 

Diggers  were  digging  some  earth  belonging  to  R,  Na'hman. 
They  came  to  the  grave  where  R.  Achai  bar  Yashia  was  buried. 


36o  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

and  the  corpse  scolded  them.  The  diggers  came  to  R.  Na'h- 
man,  and  told  him  that  a  man  who  was  buried  on  his  ground  had 
scolded  them.  So  R.  Na'hman  went  himself  to  the  grave,  and 
asked:  "Who  art  thou,  Master?"  and  the  man  in  the  grave 
answered:  "  I  am  called  Achai  bar  Yashia."  Said  R.  Na'hman 
to  him:  "  Did  not  R.  Mari  say,  that  the  bodies  of  the  right- 
eous shall  turn  to  dust  ?"  and  the  corpse  replied:  "  Who  is  this 
Mari  ?  I  know  him  not."  But  R.  Na'hman  persisted:  "  It  is 
written:  '  When  the  dust  shall  return  to  the  earth,  as  it  was.'  " 
And  the  corpse  retorted:  "  He  who  taught  thee  Ecclesiastes, 
did  not  teach  thee  Proverbs,  where  it  is  written  [Ch.  xiv.  30] : 
'  Jealousy  is  the  rottenness  of  the  bones ' ;  and  if  thy  teacher 
had  explained  this  to  thee,  thou  wouldst  have  known,  that  he 
who  hath  jealousy  in  his  heart,  his  bones  shall  rot  after  death, 
but  he  who  hath  no  jealousy  in  his  heart,  his  bones  shall  not  rot. " 
Thereupon  R.  Na'hman  felt  the  dead  man's  bones,  and  truly 
they  were  sound.  So  he  said  to  him:  "  Let  the  Master  arise  and 
go  home  with  me  for  a  while."  And  the  dead  man  answered: 
"  By  this  remark  thou  hast  proven  to  me  that  thou  hast  not 
even  studied  the  prophets,  for  it  is  written  [Ezekiel  xxxvii.  13] : 
'  And  ye  shall  know  that  I  am  the  Lord,  when  I  open  your  graves, 
and  when  I  cause  you  to  come  up  out  of  your  graves '  (for  this 
would  tell  thee,  that  only  the  Lord  can  make  me  arise,  and  still 
thou  askest  me  to  go  with  thee)."  "  Yea,"  quoth  R.  Na'hman; 
"  but  there  is  another  passage  [Genesis  iii.  19] :  *  For  dust  thou 
art,  and  to  dust  thou  shalt  return.'  "  "  This  will,  however, 
be  only  one  hour  before  the  final  resurrection,"  answered  the 
corpse. 

A  certain  Sadducee  said  to  R.  Abuha:  "  Ye  say  that  the 
souls  of  the  righteous  are  deposited  underneath  the  throne  of 
honor.  How,  then,  could  the  woman  of  the  familiar  spirit 
whom  King  Saul  consulted,*  bring  up  the  soul  of  Samuel?" 
R.  Abuha  answered:  "  That  happened  during  the  first  twelve- 
month after  the  death  of  Samuel,  as  we  have  learned  in  a  Bo- 
raitha,  that  during  the  first  twelvemonth  the  souls  of  the  deceased 
come  up  and  down ;  but  after  that  period  the  soul  ascends  to 
heaven  and  does  not  return." 

Said  R.  Jehudah,  the  son  of  R.  Samuel  bar  Shila,  in  the 
name  of  Rabh:  **  From  the  funeral  sermon  held  over  the  remains 
of  the  deceased,  it  may  be  observed  whether  they  will  enter  the 

*  See  I  Samuel  xxviii. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  361 

kingdom  of  Heaven  or  not."  (If  the  funeral  sermon  is  in  the 
form  of  a  eulogy  and  the  deceased  was  much  beloved,  it  can  be 
presumed  that  he  will  have  a  happy  time  in  the  beyond.)  This 
is  not  so!  For  did  not  Rabh  say  to  R.  Samuel  bar  Shila:  "  See 
that  thou  makest  my  funeral  oration  exceeding  touching,  for  I 
shall  be  there."  R.  Jehudah  meant  to  say,  that  when  the  ser- 
mon is  touching,  and  elicits  a  responsive  chord  in  the  breasts  of 
the  audience ;  for  some  orations  may  be  made  ever  so  touching, 
but  if  the  deceased  was  not  deserving,  it  will  produce  no  effect 
whatever.  Said  Abayi  to  Rabba:  "  Thou,  Master,  who  hast 
not  a  single  friend  in  Pumbaditha,  who  will  mourn  thy  death  ?" 
"  Thou  and  Rabba  bar  R.  Hana  will  sufifice,"  answered  Rabba. 

R.  A'ha  asked  Rabh:  "  Who  is  the  man  that  will  live  in  the 
world  to  come?"  He  answered  by  quoting  the  verse  [Isaiah 
XXX.  21]:  "  And  thy  ears  shall  hear  the  word  behind  thee,  say- 
ing. This  is  the  way;  walk  ye  in  it,  when  ye  turn  to  the  right 
hand  and  when  ye  turn  to  the  left."  *  R.  Hanina  said:  "  The 
man  who  gives  satisfaction  to  our  masters." 

It  is  written  [Ecclesiastes  xii.  5]:  "And  the  mourners  go 
about  the  streets."  The  Galileans  said:  "  Do  such  things  as 
will  be  spoken  of  to  thy  credit  in  thy  funeral  sermon  " ;  and  the 
Judaeans  said:  "  Do  such  things  as  will  be  spoken  of  after  thy 
burial."  There  is  no  difference  in  the  two  statements,  for  in 
Galilee  the  funeral  sermon  was  held  before  burial,  and  in  Judaea 
after  burial. 

We  have  learned  (in  the  Mishna  Abhoth):  "  One  day  before 
thy  death,  thou  shalt  repent  of  thy  sins,"  said  R.  Eliezer;  and 
his  disciples  asked  him,  "  Can  a  man  know  on  which  day  he  will 
die?"  and  he  answered:  "For  just  that  reason,  he  should 
repent  to-day,  lest  he  die  to-morrow.  Thus  all  his  days  will  be 
spent  in  repentance.  So  also  hath  Solomon  said  in  his  wisdom 
[Ecclesiastes  ix.  8] :  'At  all  times  let  thy  garments  be  white, 
and  let  not  oil  be  wanting  on  thy  head.'  "  Commenting  upon 
this,  R.  Johanan  ben  Zakkai  said:  "  This  is  illustrated  by  a  par- 
able about  a  king  who  invited  his  retainers  to  a  banquet,  but  did 
not  state  the  time;  the  wise  among  them  dressed  and  were 
ready,  standing  in  front  of  the  palace,  for  they  said:  '  In  a 
king's  house  nothing  is  wanting.  Perhaps  the  banquet  takes 
place  to-day.'     The  fools,  however,  went  about  their  business, 

*  The  significance  of  the  verse  is  explained  by  Rashi  as  follows  :  When  we  hear 
of  a  man  who  has  died,  and  we  are  told  to  walk  in  his  ways  and  to  do  as  he  did,  such 
a  man  will  live  in  the  world  to  come. 


362  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

saying:  '  Can  a  banquet  be  given  without  preparation  ?'  Sud- 
denly the  king  called  in  his  retainers  to  the  banquet.  The  wise 
went  in  becomingly  attired,  while  the  fools  went  in  in  their 
working  clothes.  The  king  was  well  pleased  with  the  wise,  and 
angry  with  the  fools,  and  said :  '  Those  that  are  prepared  and 
attired  for  the  banquet  shall  sit  down,  eat,  drink,  and  be  merry; 
but  those  that  are  not,  shall  stand  and  look  on,  but  shall  receive 
nothing.'  "  Said  the  son-in-law  of  R.  Meir,  in  the  latter's  name: 
Then  it  would  appear  as  if  those  standing  were  waiting  upon  those 
who  were  sitting  (and  they  would  not  be  ashamed).  They  were 
also  to  sit  down,  but  while  the  others  ate  they  would  be  hungry, 
and  while  the  others  drank  they  would  remain  thirsty,  as  it  is 
written  [Isaiah  Ixv.  13  and  14]:  "  Therefore,  thus  hath  said  the 
Lord  Eternal,  Behold,  my  servants  shall  eat,  but  ye  shall  be 
hungry;  behold,  my  servants  shall  drink,  but  ye  shall  be  thirsty; 
behold,  my  servants  shall  rejoice,  but  ye  shall  be  made  ashamed; 
behold,  my  servants  shall  sing  for  joy  of  heart,  but  ye  shall  cry 
out  from  pain  of  heart,  and  from  a  broken  spirit  shall  ye  howl  " ; 
and  on  this  account  it  is  written :  "  At  all  times  let  thy  garments 
be  white,"  etc. 


CHAPTER   XXIV. 

REGULATIONS  CONCERNING  A  MAN  WHO  IS  OVERTAKEN  BY  DUSK  ON 
THE  EVE  OF  SABBATH  WHILE  TRAVELLING,  AND  CONCERNING 
FEEDING    OF    CATTLE. 

MISHNA:  One  who  (on  l/.d  eve  of  Sabbath)  is  overtaken 
by  the  dusk  on  the  road  must  give  his  purse  to  a  Gentile  (while 
it  is  yet  day).  If  there  is  no  Gentile  with  him,  he  must  put  it 
on  the  ass.  As  soon  as  he  arrives  at  the  outmost  court  (dwelling 
of  the  first  town  or  village  he  reaches),  he  must  take  off  all  such 
things  as  may  be  handled  on  the  Sabbath ;  and  as  for  the  things 
which  must  not  be  handled  he  must  loosen  the  cords,  so  that 
they  fall  off  themselves. 

GEMARA :  Why  was  it  allowed  for  a  man  to  give  his  purse 
to  the  Gentile  accompanying  him  [he  (the  Gentile)  acts  for 
him]  ?  Because  it  was  known  to  the  rabbis  that  a  man  is  anx- 
ious about  his  money,  and  if  it  were  not  allowed,  he  might 
carry  it  himself  in  public  ground.  Said  Rabha:  "  He  may  do 
this  with  his  own  purse ;  but  if  he  found  something,  he  must  not 
have  it  carried  for  him."  Is  this  not  self-evident  ?  Did  we  not 
learn  in  the  Mishna,  "  his  purse  "  ?  We  might  assume  that  the 
same  would  apply  to  something  found,  and  the  Mishna  says  only 
"  his  purse,"  because  that  is  the  usual  occurrence;  hence  Rabha 
teaches  us  as  mentioned.  Even  in  the  case  of  something  which 
was  found,  the  prohibition  applies  only  if  the  man  had  not  yet 
had  it  in  his  hand ;  but  if  he  had,  it  is  regarded  the  same  as  his 
purse. 

"  If  there  is  no  Gentile  with  him,"  etc.  If  there  is  a  Gentile 
with  him,  he  must  give  his  purse  to  the  Gentile.  Why  not  put 
it  on  the  ass  in  the  first  place  ?  Because  concerning  the  ass 
there  is  a  commandment  to  let  it  rest,  but  no  such  commandment 
exists  for  a  Gentile.  How  is  the  case  if  the  man  had  accom- 
panying him  an  ass,  a  deaf-mute,*  an  idiot,  and  a  minor?  To 
whom  must  he  give  his  purse  in  that  event  ?    He  must  put  it  on 

*  A  deaf-mute  is  exempt  by  law  from  keeping  any  commandments. 

363 


364  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

the  ass.  Why  so  ?  Because  the  deaf-mute  and  the  minor  are 
human  beings,  and  he  might  by  accident  give  it  to  an  Israelite 
who  was  not  a  deaf-mute  or  a  minor.  How  is  it  if  he  had  with 
him  a  deaf-mute  and  an  idiot  only  ?  He  must  give  it  to  the 
idiot  (because  a  deaf-mute  has  more  sense  than  an  idiot).  How 
is  it  with  an  idiot  and  a  minor  ?  He  must  give  it  to  the  idiot. 
All  this  has  been  finally  decided,  but  the  question  that  presented 
itself  to  the  schoolmen  was,  to  whom  the  purse  must  be  given  if 
the  man  had  with  him  a  deaf-rp".te  and  a  minor.  Some  say  he 
should  give  it  to  the  deaf-mute,  and  others,  to  the  minor. 

How  is  it  if  the  man  have  nobody  along,  no  Gentile,  no  ass, 
no  deaf-mute,  no  idiot,  and  no  minor  ?  What  should  he  do 
then  ?  Said  R.  Itz'hak:  "  There  was  another  mode  of  proced- 
ure, which  the  sages  would  not  reveal."  What  was  that  ?  He 
should  carry  it  less  than  four  ells  at  a  time  {i.e.,  carry  it  a  little 
less  than  four  ells  and  stop,  then  start  and  carry  it  on  again  for 
less  than  four  ells,  and  so  on).  Why  would  the  sages  not  reveal 
this  ?  Because  it  is  written  [Proverbs  xxv.  2]  :  "  It  is  the  honor 
of  God  to  conceal  a  thing;  but  the  honor  of  kings  is  to  search 
out  a  matter."  Where  is  the  honor  of  God  concerned  in  this 
matter  ?  Perhaps  the  man  will  not  stop,  but  go  on  and  carry  it 
over  four  ells. 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  R.  Eliezer  said:  "  On  the 
day  when  the  eighteen  precautionary  measures  were  instituted 
in  the  attic  of  Hananiah  ben  Hizkyah  ben  Garon  (this  measure 
concerning  the  purse  of  the  traveller  was  also  instituted,  viz., 
that  he  should  not  carry  it  but  give  it  to  the  Gentile),  and  the 
measure  of  laws  was  made  heaping  full."  R.  Jehoshua,  how- 
ever, says,  that  the  measure  was  smoothened  in  too  great  a 
degree,*  and  we  have  learned  that  R.  Eliezer  meant  to  say  what 
his  simile  illustrates ;  viz. :  There  was  a  basket  filled  with 
cucumbers  and  beets  to  the  brim ;  and  if  a  man  put  in  mustard- 
seed,  there  is  an  addition,  without,  however,  forcing  out  any- 
thing else.  Thus  the  measure  was  full,  but  not  overflowing. 
R.  Jehoshua,  however,  compares  it  as  follows :  There  was  a  tub 
filled  with  honey,  and  nuts  were  thrown  into  it,  in  consequence 
of  which  the  honey  overflowed  and  some  was  spilled.  (This 
means,  that  by  the  institution  of  those  precautionary  measures 
the  Mosaic  laws  were  undermined.) 

The  Master  said:  "  If  there  was  no  Gentile  with  him,  he 

*  See  Appendix. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  365 

should  put  it  on  the  ass  ? "  How  is  it  that  he  may  do  this  ?  If 
he  put  it  on  the  ass,  he  will  be  compelled  to  drive  the  ass,  and 
surely  this  is  also  labor,  which  is  prohibited  on  the  Sabbath,  as 
it  is  written  [Exod.  xx.  10]:  "On  it  thou  shalt  not  do  any 
work."  Said  R.  Ada  bar  Abha :  The  man  must  put  the  purse  on 
the  ass,  while  the  latter  is  walking  along;  in  that  case,  no  trans- 
fer from  one  fixed  point  takes  place  (because  while  both  are 
walking  it  cannot  be  said  that  the  purse  is  resting  in  one  partic- 
ular place).  It  is,  however,  impossible  that  the  ass  should  not 
rest  at  some  place  for  a  little  while  ?  When  the  ass  rests,  the 
man  removes  the  purse;  and  when  it  commences  to  walk  again, 
he  puts  it  back.  If  that  is  so,  it  would  be  the  same  if  he  would 
transfer  his  purse  to  a  fellow-Israelite  while  walking,  and  he  would 
never  be  guilty  of  the  act  of  transferring  from  one  (fixed)  place 
and  depositing  in  another?  Said  R.  Papa:  An  act  which,  if 
committed  by  one  man  unassisted,  would  make  him  liable  for  a 
sin-offering  {e.g.,  if  he,  while  running  or  walking,  should  pick 
up  something  off  the  ground  even  without  stopping,  he  would 
become  liable  for  a  sin-offering),  he  must  not  commit  with  the 
assistance  of  a  companion ;  but  if  he  did  so,  he  is  not  liable  for 
a  sin-offering  {e.g.,  if  he  picked  up  a  thing  and  placed  it  on  his 
companion  while  the  latter  was  walking,  in  that  event  neither  is 
culpable,  for  the  one  did  not  deposit  it  in  a  fixed  place,  and  the 
other  did  not  remove  it  from  a  fixed  place).  Such  acts,  however, 
as  must  not  be  committed  with  the  aid  of  a  companion  may  be 
done  with  the  assistance  of  an  ass  in  the  first  place. 

R.  Ada  bar  Abha  said  again  :  "If  a  man  has  a  bundle  on  his 
shoulders  before  dusk  on  the  Sabbath  while  on  the  road,  he  may 
run  with  the  burden  until  he  reaches  home,  but  he  must  not 
walk  his  usual  gait."  Why  so  ?  Because,  if  he  walks  in  the 
usual  manner,  he  might  stop  (and  by  stopping  carry  out  the  pro- 
hibited transfer  from  one  fixed  point  and  depositing  in  another). 
When  he  reaches  home,  however,  he  must  stop  for  some  time, 
and  thus  he  would  bring  a  thing  from  public  ground  into  private 
ground  ?  The  remedy  for  this  is,  to  throw  the  bundle  from  his 
shoulders  backwards,  and  not  in  the  usual  manner. 

Rabha  the  brother  of  R.  Mari  bar  Rachel  taught  the  follow- 
ing decree  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan :  "  One  who  drives  cattle 
on  the  Sabbath  (even  if  they  are  burdened)  is  free."  Why  so  ? 
If  he  did  so  unintentionally,  he  cannot  be  liable  for  a  sin-offer- 
ing, because  Sabbath  laws  are  identical  with  those  of  idolatry. 
In  like  manner,  as  a  man  cannot  be  guilty  of  idolatry  unless  he 
VOL.  II. — 12 


366  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

worship  with  his  own  body,  so  it  is  with  the  Sabbatical  law.  If 
he  perform  labor  through  the  medium  of  his  cattle,  without 
doing  any  himself,  he  cannot  be  guilty.  Even  if  he  did  it  inten- 
tionally, he  is  also  not  guilty.  Why  so  ?  Because  we  have 
learned  in  a  Mishna  (Tract  Sanhedrin):  "  Among  those  who  are 
subject  to  capital  punishment  (by  stoning)  is  he  who  violates  the 
Sabbath  by  an  act  which,  if  done  intentionally,  carries  with  it 
such  punishment  (stoning),  and  which,  if  done  unintentionally, 
makes  one  liable  for  a  sin-offering."  Hence,  if  the  uninten- 
tional performance  of  such  an  act  does  not  carry  with  it  liability 
to  bring  a  sin-offering,  its  intentional  performance  cannot  carry 
with  it  the  punishment  of  stoning,  nor  the  punishment  of 
stripes ;  because,  where  the  penalty  for  the  violation  of  a  nega- 
tive commandment  is  death,  stripes  cannot  be  inflicted;  and 
even  according  to  the  Tana  who  holds  that  stripes  can  be  inflicted 
for  such  violation,  in  this  case  it  could  not  be  done,  because, 
were  the  verse  to  be  read,  "Thou  shalt  not  do  any  labor,  nor 
thy  cattle,"  it  would  be  right;  but  the  verse  distinctly  says, 
"  Thou  shalt  not  do  any  labor,  neither  thou,  etc.,  nor  thy  cat- 
tle." Hence,  when  the  work  was  not  done  jointly  by  the  man 
and  his  cattle,  he  cannot  be  punished  in  any  manner  for  a  viola- 
tion of  the  Sabbath. 

"  As  soon  as  he  arrives  at  the  outmost  court,''  etc.  Said  R. 
Huna: "  If  the  ass  was  laden  with  glassware,  he  may  bring  cush- 
ions and  place  them  on  the  ground,  so  that  when  he  loosens  the 
cords  the  glassware  may  fall  on  the  cushions  and  escape  being 
broken."  We  have  learned,  however,  that  such  vessels  as  may 
be  handled  on  the  Sabbath  may  be  removed  from  the  ass ;  and 
why  may  not  the  glassware  be  handled  ?  R.  Huna  refers  to 
glassware  which  belongs  to  a  surgeon,  and  being  dirty  (bloody) 
is  unfit  for  use  in  a  household.  In  that  case,  then,  the  man 
would  render  the  cushions  which  he  places  on  the  ground  to 
receive  the  falling  glassware  unfit  for  their  proper  use,  and  this  is 
prohibited  on  the  Sabbath  ?  The  cushions  are  only  to  be  used 
in  order  to  break  the  fall  of  the  glassware,  and  after  the  glassware 
rolls  off  on  to  the  ground,  the  cushions  can  be  used  as  before. 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha :  R.  Simeon  ben  Jochai  said : 
"  If  a  sheaf  of  grain  (the  tithes  of  which  had  not  yet  been  sepa- 
rated) is  on  the  back  of  the  ass,  the  man  may  push  it  off  with  his 
head,  so  that  it  fall  to  the  ground."  The  ass  of  R.  Gamaliel 
was  once  laden  with  honey,  and,  the  Sabbath  having  set  in,  R. 
Gamaliel  would  not  allow  the  ass  to  be  unloaded  until  the  Sab- 


TRACT    SABBATH.  367 

bath  was  over.     This  proved  too  much  for  the  animal  and  it 
dropped  dead. 

We  have  learned  in  the  Mishna,  that  such  things  as  may  be 
handled  on  Sabbath  may  be  removed  from  the  animal ;  why  was 
not  the  honey  removed  ?  The  honey  had  become  spoiled.  If 
the  honey  was  spoiled,  why  was  it  brought  ?  It  was  intended  to 
be  used  for  the  bruises  on  camels.  Then  the  cords  should  have 
been  loosened  and  the  honey  allowed  to  fall  off  ?  The  honey 
was  in  (inflated)  skins,  and  would  have  burst  if  allowed  to  fall. 
Then  cushions  should  have  been  placed  on  the  ground  to  receive 
them  ?  The  cushions  would  have  become  soiled,  and  thus  ren- 
dered unfit  for  use.  Pity  should  have  been  taken  on  the  animal, 
and  it  should  not  have  been  allowed  to  stand  laden  all  day  ? 
Pity  for  animals  is  only  a  rabbinical  institution  according  to 
R.  Gamaliel,  and  thus  he  could  not  observe  it  lest  he  violate  the 
Sabbath. 

Abayi  once  saw  Rabba  playing  with  his  little  son,  and  setting 
him  on  the  back  of  an  ass,  so  he  said  to  him:  "  Why!  Does 
Master  use  an  animal  on  Sabbath!"  and  Rabba  answered: 
"  This  cannot  be  called  using  an  animal  in  the  regular  manner, 
but  just  incidental  use,  and  that  was  not  prohibited  by  the 
rabbis." 

Abayi  objected:  "  Have  we  not  learned  that  if  two  walls  of 
a  booth  (to  be  used  on  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles)  were  made 
by  hand,  and  the  third  wall  was  already  made  by  a  tree,  the 
booth  might  be  used  for  ritual  purposes;  but  it  is  not  allowed 
to  ascend  to  the  roof  of  the  booth  on  a  festival,  because  the 
tree  serves  as  a  support  to  the  roof,  and  by  ascending  the  roof 
the  tree  would  be  used,  which  is  prohibited  ?  Hence  we  see 
that,  although  that  would  be  incidental  and  not  direct  use,  still  it 
is  prohibited  ?"  Rabba  answered:  "  In  the  case  cited  by  thee, 
a  tree  is  referred  to,  the  branches  of  which  were  also  part  of  the 
roof."  The  Mishna  seems  to  have  this  meaning  attributed  to  it 
by  Rabba,  for  in  a  later  clause  it  is  stated,  that  should  the  tree 
(which  partly  supports  the  booth)  be  removed,  and  the  booth  can 
stand  by  itself,  one  may  ascend  it ;  hence  the  tree  is  regarded  as 
an  independent  wall. 

MISHNA :  One  may  untie  bundles  of  straw  for  cattle,  also 
strew  stalks  for  them,  but  one  must  not  undo  tied  bundles  of 
Zirin.*     Herbs  used  as  fodder,  and  carob-pods,  must  not  be  cut 

*  This  term  will  be  explained  in  the  Gemara  farther  on. 


368  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

up  for  cattle,  large  or  smalL  R.  Jehudah  permits  the  cutting 
up  of  carob-pods  for  small  cattle. 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Huna:  "  There  is  no  difference  between 
bundles  of  straw  and  stalks,  except  that  the  former  are  tied  twice 
while  the  latter  are  trebly  tied,  and  by  Zirin  is  meant  the  young 
branches  of  a  cedar-tree  (which  when  young  are  still  tender  and 
are  eaten  by  cattle);  and  the  Mishna  should  be  explained  thus: 
One  may  untie  bundles  of  straw  for  cattle,  and  also  strew  them, 
and  the  same  may  be  done  with  stalks,  but  not  with  Zirin ;  the 
latter  must  neither  be  untied  nor  strewn,"  Said  R.  Hisda: 
"  What  reason  has  R.  Huna  for  explaining  the  Mishna  in  this 
manner  ?  He  means  to  say,  that  on  account  of  such  things  as 
are  already  proper  fodder  for  cattle  one  may  trouble  himself  on 
Sabbath,  but  on  account  of  such  as  must  first  be  prepared  as 
fodder,  one  should  not  trouble  himself."  R.  Jehudah,  how- 
ever, says,  that  bundles  of  straw  and  Zirin  are  identical,  except 
that  the  former  were  tied  twice  and  the  latter  trebly,  but  stalks 
signify  cedar  boughs;  and  he  explains  the  Mishna  thus:  "  We 
may  untie  bundles  of  straw  for  cattle,  but  not  strew  them ; 
stalks  may  also  be  strewn ;  the  Zirin,  however,  may  be  untied, 
but  not  strewn."  Said  Rabha:  "What  is  the  reason  for  R. 
Jehudah's  explanation  ?  He  holds,  that  we  may  prepare  things 
for  the  use  of  cattle,  but  we  must  not  trouble  ourselves  on  ac- 
count of  such  things  as  are  already  fit  fodder  for  cattle." 

An  objection  was  made  to  the  foregoing  (based  on  the  latter 
clause  of  the  Mishna):  "  Herbs  used  for  fodder  and  carob-pods 
must  not  be  cut  up  for  cattle."  As  herbs  are  mentioned  in  con- 
junction with  carob-pods,  we  must  assume,  that  as  the  herbs 
were  soft,  so  were  also  the  carob-pods ;  and,  it  being  prohibited  to 
cut  them  up,  we  see  that  with  such  things  as  are  already  proper 
fodder  we  must  not  trouble  ourselves,  and  this  is  contrary  to  the 
dictum  of  R.  Huna  ?  R.  Huna  might  say  to  the  contrary,  that 
as  the  carob-pods  are  hard,  so  also  are  the  herbs.  Where  do  we 
find  that  herbs  should  be  cut  up  for  cattle,  they  generally  eat 
them  as  they  are  ?     This  refers  to  young  calves  and  mule-colts. 

(Another  objection  was  raised.)  Come  and  hear:  One  may 
cut  up  pumpkins  for  cattle  and  carrion  for  dogs.  Then  we  may 
say,  that  as  carrion  is  soft,  so  also  are  the  pumpkins ;  and  hence 
we  see,  that  we  may  trouble  ourselves  even  with  such  articles  as 
are  already  fit  fodder  for  cattle,  and  this  is  contradictory  to  R. 
Jehudah's  opinion  ?  R.  Jehudah  might  say  to  the  contrary, 
that  as  the  pumpkins  were  hard,  so  was  also  the  carrion.      How 


TRACT   SABBATH.  369 

can  that  be  ?  Supposing  it  was  the  carcass  of  an  elephant,  or 
the  dogs  were  young  and  could  not  eat  carrion  without  having 
it  cut  up  for  them. 

MISHNA:  A  camel  must  not  be  crammed  (to  fatten  it),  nor 
may  it  be  forced  to  eat :  but  the  food  may  be  put  into  its  mouth. 
Calves  must  not  be  crammed,  but  the  food  may  be  put  into 
their  mouths.  Poultry  may  be  fed  and  crammed ;  water  may  be 
poured  on  bran,  but  the  bran  must  not  be  kneaded.  One  must 
not  put  water  before  bees,  or  before  doves  in  a  dove-cot ;  but 
one  may  put  it  before  geese,  before  poultry,  and  before  house- 
pigeons. 

GEMARA:  What  is  meant  by  "  must  not  be  crammed  "  ? 
Said  R.  Jehudah:  "  By  that  is  meant,  that  the  stomach  of  the 
camel  should  not  be  turned  into  a  feed-bag."  Can  such  a 
thing  be  done  ?  Said  R.  Jeremiah  of  Diphti: "  Yea;  I  saw  with 
my  own  eyes,  that  an  itinerant  merchant  fed  his  camel  a  meas- 
ure of  grain,  and  when  it  had  consumed  that,  he  forced  another 
measure  down  its  throat." 

' '  Calves  must  not  be  crammed,  but  the  food  tnay  be  put  into 
their  mouths y'  etc.  What  is  the  difference  between  cramming 
and  putting  food  into  the  calf's  mouth?  R.  Jehudah  said,  that 
cramming  is  accomplished  when  the  food  is  stuffed  down  into 
the  calf's  mouth  so  that  it  cannot  eject  it,  and  putting  food  into 
its  mouth  is  merely  as  is  implied  by  the  term ;  and  R.  Hisda 
said,  that  in  both  cases  the  food  is  forced  down  so  far  that  the 
calf  cannot  eject  it ;  but  in  cramming,  some  instrument  is  used, 
and  the  other  is  done  by  hand. 

R.  Joseph  objected :  We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha,  that 
poultry  may  be  crammed,  and  so  much  the  more  food  may  be 
given  to  the  poultry  a  little  at  a  time.  The  contrary  is  the  case 
with  doves.  Food  must  not  be  given  them  even  a  little  at  a 
time,  and  much  less  may  they  be  crammed.  Now  what  is  the 
difference  between  cramming  and  forcing  them  to  eat  a  little  at 
a  time  ?  Shall  we  assume  that  by  cramming  is  meant,  forcing 
the  food  down  by  hand,  and  by  giving  them  food  a  little  at  a  time 
is  meant,  throwing  it  to  them  ?  If  so,  why  should  doves  not  be 
fed  in  that  manner  ?  Is  it  then  prohibited  to  throw  them  food  ? 
We  must  therefore  say,  that  in  both  cases  the  food  is  given  by 
hand,  but  in  cramming  the  food  is  forced  down  so  that  it  cannot 
be  ejected,  while  in  the  other  case  it  can  be  ejected.  If  this 
applies  to  poultry,  then  we  must  certainly  assume  that,  as  for 
calves,  cramming  is  done  by  forcing  the  food  down  with  an  in- 


370  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

strument,  and  this  would  be  contradictory  to  R.  Jehudah  ?  R. 
Jehudah  might  say,  that  by  feeding  poultry  is  meant,  throwing 
food  to  them ;  and  the  reason  that  one  must  not  feed  doves  is 
because  they  do  not  belong  to  him,  whereas  poultry  belongs  to 
him  and  must  be  fed  by  him,  as  we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha, 
that  one  may  give  food  to  a  dog  but  not  to  a  pig;  and  the  reason 
is,  that  a  man  is  in  duty  bound  to  feed  his  dog,  but  a  pig  that 
he  does  not  own  he  need  not  feed.  Said  R.  Ashi :  "  This  we 
also  learn  from  our  Mishna:  *  One  must  not  put  it  before  bees, 
or  before  doves  in  a  dove-cot ;  but  we  may  put  it  before  geese, 
poultry,  and  house-pigeons.*  "  We  must  assume  the  reason  of 
the  Mishna  to  be  because  one  is  not  obliged  to  take  care  of  the 
bees  and  doves,  but  must  take  care  of  those  which  he  owns. 
According  to  this,  then,  why  is  water  only  spoken  of,  why  not 
wheat  or  barley  ?  We  must  say  that  water  is  easily  obtainable, 
and  hence  there  is  no  necessity  to  trouble  one's  self  on  that 
account. 

R.  Jonah  taught  at  the  door  of  Nassi :  It  is  written  [Prov- 
erbs xxix.  7] :  "  The  righteous  considereth  the  cause  of  the  in- 
digent." The  righteous,  synonymous  with  the  Holy  One, 
blessed  be  He,  knoweth  that  a  dog  hath  not  much  food,  and 
hath  thus  ordained,  that  the  food  in  his  stomach  remains  undi- 
gested for  three  days,  as  we  have  learned  in  a  Mishna:  How 
long  must  the  food  (carrion)  remain  in  the  stomach,  that  it  may 
still  be  considered  unclean?  In  the  stomach  of  a  dog  three  days, 
but  in  the  stomach  of  a  bird  or  a  fish  only  as  long  as  it  would 
take  it  to  burn  up  if  thrown  into  the  fire. 

Said  R.  Hamnuna:  "  From  what  was  said  above,  it  may  be 
implied  that  one  may  throw  food  before  a  dog."  How  much  ? 
Said  R.  Mari:  "  A  small  piece,  and  the  dog  should  immediately 
be  driven  off."  This  refers  to  a  dog  in  the  field,  but  within  the 
city  a  strange  dog  should  not  be  fed  at  all,  lest  he  run  after  the 
man ;  however,  a  dog  belonging  to  him  may  be  fed. 

Said  R.  Papa:  "There  is  nothing  poorer  than  a  dog,  and 
nothing  richer  than  a  pig  (meaning  that  a  dog  is  very  fastidious 
about  food,  while  a  pig  will  eat  anything)." 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha,  in  support  of  the  dictum  of  R. 
Jehudah :  What  is  the  difference  between  cramming  and  putting 
food  into  the  mouth  of  a  calf  ?  Cramming  is  accomplished  by 
laying  the  calf  down,  forcing  open  its  mouth,  and  stuffing  it 
with  soaked  grain;  and  putting  food  into  its  mouth  is  merely 
feeding  and  watering  it  separately,  while  the  calf  is  standing. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  371 

"  Poultry  maybe  fed  and  crammed,''  etc.  Said  Abayi :  "  I 
asked  my  master,  with  whose  opinion  was  the  Mishna  in  con- 
formity, and  he  told  me  with  that  of  R.  Jose  bar  Jehudah,  as 
we  have  learned:  Water  must  not  be  poured  on  bran,  said 
Rabbi,  but  R.  Jose  bar  Jehudah  said  that  it  may  be  done." 

The  rabbis  taught:  "  When  water  is  poured  on  parched  corn 
the  corn  must  not  be  kneaded  on  Sabbath,  but  others  say  that 
it  maybe  kneaded."  Who  is  meant  by  "  others  "  ?  Said  R. 
Hisda:  "  R.  Jose  bar  Jehudah."  Such  is  the  case,  however, 
only  when  it  is  done  differently  than  on  a  week-day.  How  can 
it  be  done  differently  ?  By  kneading  a  little  at  a  time  and  not 
in  a  lump.  All  agree,  however,  that  Shthitha  *  may  be  kneaded 
on  the  Sabbath,  and  that  Egyptian  beer  may  be  drunk.  Was  it 
not  said,  that  kneading  was  not  allowed  on  Sabbath  ?  This 
presents  no  difficulty.  Fine  corn  may  be  kneaded,  but  coarse 
must  not ;  and  even  then  it  must  be  kneaded  differently  than  on 
a  week-day.  How  can  this  be  done  ?  On  week-days  the  vine- 
gar is  first  put  in  and  then  the  Shthitha,  and  on  Sabbath  the 
latter  should  be  put  in  first. 

Levi  the  son  of  R.  Huna  bar  Hyya  once  found  the  herder  of 
his  father's  cattle  pouring  water  on  bran  and  giving  it  to  the 
cattle.  He  scolded  him.  Afterwards  R.  Huna  met  his  son,  and 
said  to  him :  Thus  said  the  father  of  thy  mother  in  the  name  of 
Rabh  (meaning  R.  Jeremiah  bar  Aba):  "  It  is  allowed  to  pour 
water  on  bran  but  not  to  put  the  mixed  bran  into  the  mouth  of 
the  cattle  (but  young  cattle,  that  cannot  eat  themselves,  may  be 
fed  by  hand)."  And  this  maybe  done,  providing  it  is  done 
differently  than  on  a  week-day.  How  should  that  be  done  ? 
The  bran  should  only  be  stirred  once  lengthwise  and  once 
crosswise.  It  will  not  mix  well,  however,  in  this  manner.  Said 
R.  Jehudah:  "  Then  it  should  be  poured  into  another  vessel." 

We  found  in  the  diary  of  Zera:  "  I  asked  of  my  Master  R. 
Hyya,  whether  kneading  was  permitted  on  the  Sabbath,  and  he 
said,  '  No.'  I  asked  him  whether  transferring  from  one  vessel 
to  another  was  permitted,  and  he  said  it  was."  Said  R.  Menas- 
seh:  "  It  is  allowed  to  give  one  animal  a  measure  of  grain,  and 
two  measures  for  two  animals,  but  one  must  not  give  three 
measures  for  two  animals."  R.  Joseph,  however,  said  that  a 
whole  Kabh,  or  even  two  Kabhs,  may  be  given  for  one  or  two  or 
three  animals,  and  Ula  said  that  even  a  Kur  or  more  may  be  given. 

*  Shthitha  is  the  name  of  a  dish  prepared  from  parched  corn. 


372  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

It  was  written  in  the  diary  of  Levi:  "  I  related  in  the  pres- 
ence of  my  master,  who  was  Rabbi  the  Holy  (Jehudah  Hanassi), 
that  in  Babylon  they  were  kneading  Shthitha  on  Sabbath  and 
Rabbi  protested  against  it ;  but  no  one  paid  attention  to  it,  and 
he  had  no  power  to  prohibit  it,  because  R.  Jose  bar  Jehudah 
once  permitted  it  (as  mentioned  previously)." 

It  was  written  in  the  diary  of  R.  Jehoshua  ben  Levi:  "  One 
who  is  born  on  the  first  day  of  the  week  will  be  a  man,  and  not 
one  thing  will  be  in  him."  What  does  that  mean  ?  That  there 
will  not  be  any  one  good  thing  in  him  ?  Did  not  R.  Assi  say 
that  he  was  born  on  the  first  day  of  the  week  ?  Shall  we  say, 
that  not  one  bad  thing  will  be  in  him  ?  R.  Assi  said:  "  I  and 
Dimi  bar  Kakusta  were  both  born  on  the  first  day  of  the  week, 
and,  behold!  I  am  a  prince  and  he  is  a  leader  of  robbers!" 
What,  then,  is  meant  by  "  not  one  thing  will  be  in  him"? 
This  means,  that  he  will  be  either  wholly  bad  or  wholly  good. 
"  A  man  who  was  born  on  the  second  day  of  the  week  will  be 
a  man  of  violent  passion."  Why  so  ?  Because  on  the  second 
day  the  water  was  separated.  "  A  man  born  on  the  third  day 
will  be  rich  and  lascivious."  Why  so  ?  Because  grass  was  cre- 
ated on  the  third  day.  "  A  man  born  on  the  fourth  day  will  be 
wise  and  have  a  good  memory."  Why  so  ?  Because  on  the 
fourth  day  the  lights  were  created.  "  A  man  born  on  the  fifth  day 
will  be  a  charitable  man."  Why  so  ?  Because  on  that  day  the 
fishes  and  fowls  were  created.  "  A  man  born  on  the  sixth  day 
will  be  a  very  devout  man. "  [R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak  said :  "  He 
will  be  zealous  in  the  fulfilment  of  commandments."]  "  A  man 
born  on  the  Sabbath  will  also  die  on  the  Sabbath,  because  on 
his  account  the  great  day  of  Sabbath  was  violated."  Said 
Rabba  bar  R.  Shila:  "  He  will,  however,  be  called  a  great  and 
pious  man." 

Said  R.  Hanina  to  the  men  who  related  what  was  written  in 
the  diary  above:  "  Go  and  tell  the  son  of  Levi,  that  the  fortune 
of  a  man  does  not  depend  upon  the  day,  but  upon  the  hour  he 
was  born  in.  One  who  is  born  in  the  hour  of  sunrise  will  be  a 
bright  man ;  he  will  eat  and  drink  of  his  own,  but  he  will  not  be 
able  to  keep  secrets  and  will  not  be  successful  in  stealing.  One 
who  is  born  under  Venus  will  be  a  rich  man,  but  will  be  lascivi- 
ous, because  fire  is  generated  under  Venus.  One  who  is  born 
under  Mercury  will  be  bright  and  wise,  because  that  star  is  the 
scribe  of  the  Sun.  One  who  is  born  under  the  Moon  will  be 
sickly  or  troubled.     He  will  build  and  demolish,  will  not  eat  and 


TRACT    SABBATH.  373 

drink  his  own,  but  will  keep  secrets,  and  will  be  successful  in 
stealing.  One  who  is  born  under  Saturn  will  have  all  his  thoughts 
and  aims  come  to  naught;  and  others  say,  to  the  contrary,  all 
aims  against  him  will  come  to  naught.  One  who  is  born  under 
Jupiter  will  be  a  righteous  man,  and  R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak 
said  he  will  be  very  devout.  One  who  is  born  under  Mars  will 
be  a  man  who  will  shed  blood.  He  will  either  be  a  surgeon  or 
a  robber,  a  butcher  or  a  circumciser,  said  R.  Ashi.  Rabba  said 
that  he  was  born  under  Mars.  Said  Abayi  to  him:  "Thou, 
Master,  reprovest  men,  and  whom  thou  reprovest,  he  dieth; 
hence  thou,  also,  sheddest  blood." 

It  was  taught:  R.  Hanina  said:  "  One  who  is  born  under 
a  lucky  star  may  be  either  rich  or  wise,  and  the  same  thing 
applies  to  Israelites  also."  R.  Johanan  said:  "An  Israelite 
does  not  come  under  this  fate";  and  R.  Johanan  says  this 
in  accordance  with  his  dictum  elsewhere ;  viz.  :  Whence  do  we 
know  that  the  Israelites  are  not  subject  to  fate  ?  Because  it  is 
written  [Jeremiah  x.  2]:  "Thus  hath  said  the  Lord,  Do  not 
habituate  yourselves  in  the  way  of  the  nations,  and  at  the  signs 
of  the  heavens  be  ye  not  dismayed,  although  the  nations  should 
be  dismayed  at  them."  So  the  nations  may  be  dismayed  at  the 
signs  of  the  heavens,  but  not  the  Israelites;  and  Rabh  holds 
likewise,  that  the  Israelites  are  not  subject  to  fate.  R.  Jehudah 
said  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  Whence  do  we  know  that  the 
Israelites  are  not  subject  to  fate  ?  Because  it  is  written  [Gen- 
esis xv.  5]:  "And  he  brought  him  forth  abroad."  Abraham 
said  before  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He:  "  Creator  of  the  Uni- 
verse, lo,  one  born  in  my  house  will  be  my  heir  " ;  and  the  Lord 
answered:  "  He  that  shall  come  forth  out  of  thy  own  bowels 
shall  be  thy  heir"  [Gen.  xv,  4].  And  Abraham  said  again : 
"  Creator  of  the  Universe!  I  have  consulted  my  horoscope,  and 
have  found  that  I  am  not  capable  of  having  a  son";  so  the 
Lord  said  to  him:  "  Away  with  thy  horoscope  !  An  Israelite 
hath  no  fate!  " 

Of  Samuel  it  is  also  known,  that  he  thought  the  Israelites  had 
no  destiny,  for  Samuel  and  Ablat  were  once  sitting  together,  and 
some  men  went  past  a  meadow,  Ablat  (who  was  an  astrologer) 
said  to  Samuel,  pointing  to  one  of  the  men:  "  That  man  will 
not  return.  A  snake  will  bite  him  and  he  will  die."  Said  Sam- 
uel: "If  he  is  an  Israelite,  he  will  come  back."  While  they 
were  talking,  the  man  came  back;  so  Ablat  arose  and»examined 
him,  and  he  found  a  snake  cut  in  two  on  the  man's  clothes. 


374  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

Said  Samuel  to  the  man  :  "  What  didst  thou  do  to-day,  that  thou 
hast  escaped  death  ?"  The  man  answered:  "  It  is  our  custom, 
when  going  out  with  a  party  of  men,  that  we  all  contribute  our 
share  of  victuals,  and  then  have  our  meal  in  common.  I  knew 
that  one  of  our  party  had  no  (bread)  victuals,  and  not  wishing  to 
make  him  ashamed,  I  secured  the  basket  to  gather  the  food ; 
and  when  coming  up  to  him  I  pretended  to  put  in  his  share,  but 
in  reality  put  in  mine,  and  thus  he  was  not  ashamed."  "  Then 
thou  hast  committed  an  act  of  charity,"  said  Samuel;  and  when 
he  went  out  he  preached  that  charity  maybe  the  cause  of  saving 
a  man's  life,  and  not  only  from  a  violent  death,  but  also  from 
death  which  otherwise  would  have  overtaken  a  man  naturally. 

Of  R.  Aqiba  it  is  also  known,  that  he  did  not  believe  the  Is- 
raelites to  be  subject  to  fate,  for  R.  Aqiba  had  a  daughter,  and 
the  soothsayers  predicted  that  on  the  day  on  which  she  should 
enter  the  garden  a  snake  would  bite  her  and  she  would  die.  He 
was  very  much  troubled  on  that  account.  One  day  his  daughter 
took  ofT  her  headdress  in  the  garden,  and  the  needle  protruding 
from  it  stuck  on  the  side  of  the  fence  where  a  snake  happened 
to  be,  and  piercing  the  eye  of  the  snake,  the  latter  was  killed. 
When  R.  Aqiba's  daughter  went  back  to  the  house  the  snake 
dragged  after  her.  Asked  R.  Aqiba:  "  What  didst  thou  do  to- 
day, to  escape  death  ?"  and  she  answered:  "  At  dawn  a  man 
came  to  the  door  begging  bread.  Everybody,  however,  was  at 
the  table,  and  no  one  heard  him  but  myself.  I  took  my  own 
meal,  that  thou  gavest  me,  and  gave  it  to  him."  Said  R.  Aqiba: 
"  Thou  didst  an  act  of  charity,  and  this  saved  thee  from  death." 
He  then  went  forth  and  preached,  that  charity  may  be  the 
cause  of  saving  a  man's  life,  and  not  only  from  a  violent  death, 
but  also  from  one  that  was  to  have  come  naturally. 

R.  Na'hman  bar  Itz'hak  is  also  known  to  discountenance  the 
theory  of  the  Israelites  being  subject  to  fate;  for  the  mother  of 
R.  Na'hman  was  told  by  astrologers  that  her  son  would  turn 
out  to  be  a  thief,  so  she  would  not  let  him  go  out  bare-headed, 
saying:  "  Always  keep  thy  head  covered,  that  thou  mayest  fear 
the  Lord,  and  pray  to  Him  for  mercy";  and  he  did  not  know 
why  she  always  told  him  this.  One  day  he  sat  underneath  a 
tree  studying,  when  his  head-wear  fell  off,  and  looking  up,  he 
saw  the  tree  filled  with  delicious  dates.  He  was  very  much 
tempted  to  take  some  of  the  fruit,  although  the  tree  did  not 
belong  to  him,  and  accordingly  climbed  the  tree,  and  bit  off  a 
branch  with  his  teeth. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  375 

MISHNA:  Pumpkins  may  be  cut  up  for  cattle,  and  carrion 
for  dogs.  R.  Jehudah  saith :  "  If  the  carrion  was  not  yet  carrion 
(if  the  beast  had  not  yet  died)  before  the  Sabbath,  it  must  not  be 
cut  up ;  because,  in  that  case,  it  is  not  part  of  what  had  been 
provided  (for  consumption  on  Sabbath)." 

GEMARA:  It  was  taught:  Ula  said,  the  Halakha  prevails 
according  to  R.  Jehudah,  and  of  Rabh  it  is  also  known  that 
he  agrees  with  R.  Jehudah,  as  may  be  seen  from  his  decree  con- 
cerning covers  of  a  vessel  (on  page  29).  Levi  also  admits,  that 
the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Jehudah;  for  when  a  car- 
cass was  brought  to  him  for  decision  as  to  its  fitness  for  use,  or 
unfitness,  on  a  festival,  he  would  not  inspect  it  unless  it  had  lain 
in  the  dirt ;  because,  should  he  hold  it  to  be  fit,  it  would  forth- 
with become  carrion  and  not  even  be  fit  for  dogs,  by  reason  of 
its  turning  into  carrion  on  the  festival  (and  thus  not  having  been 
provided  on  the  day  before  for  consumption  on  the  festival). 

Samuel,  however,  said,  that  the  Halakha  prevails  according 
to  R.  Simeon,  as  also  does  Zera,  because  a  Mishna  elsewhere, 
which  teaches,  that  if  an  animal  died  (on  Sabbath  or  on  a  festival) 
it  must  not  be  removed,  was  explained  by  Zera  to  refer  only  to 
such  an  animal  as  was  designated  for  a  sacrifice  and  which  must 
not  be  made  use  of  at  all ;  but  any  ordinary  carcass  may  be  re- 
moved. R.  Johanan  also  said,  that  the  Halakha  according  to 
R.  Simeon  prevails. 

Is  it  possible  that  R,  Johanan  said  this  ?  Have  we  not 
learned  that  R.  Johanan  always  holds  Halakhas  to  be  in  accord- 
ance with  the  abstract  decrees  of  the  Mishna,  and  in  another 
Mishna  we  have  learned  that  the  wood  of  a  beam  that  had  been 
broken  on  a  festival  must  not  be  used  on  the  festival  ?  R. 
Johanan  claims,  that  the  Mishna  above  was  taught  in  the  name 
of  R.  Jose  bar  Jehudah. 

Come  and  hear  (another  objection):  "It  is  permitted  to 
commence  taking  from  a  heap  of  straw  on  a  festival  for  use  as 
fuel,  but  not  from  wood  designated  for  another  purpose. "  This 
is  also  taught  abstractly  (and  is  certainly  contrary  to  the  opinion 
of  R.  Simeon).  This  above  teaching  refers  to  cedar  beams  in- 
tended for  building  purposes,  and  being  very  expensive  should 
not  be  used  as  fuel,  even  according  to  R.  Simeon. 

Come  and  hear  (another  objection  based  upon  another  ab- 
stract Mishna):  "It  is  not  permitted  to  water  or  to  slaughter 
animals  living  in  their  wild  natural  state,  but  it  is  allowed  as  re- 
gards domestic  animals."     (This  is  also  contrary  to  R.  Simeon?) 


376  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

R.  Johanan,  however,  found  an  abstract  Mishna  that  was  in 
accord  with  R.  Simeon ;  viz.  :  That  Mishna  concerning  bones 
and  husks  which  may  be  removed  from  the  table  (page  326),  and 
R.  Johanan  holds  as  R.  Na'hman  (did  later),  that  all  decisions 
rendered  by  the  school  of  Shamai  are  in  accordance  with  the 
opinion  of  R.  Jehudah,  while  those  rendered  by  the  school  of 
Hillel  agree  with  those  of  R.  Simeon. 

It  is  related  of  R.  A'ha  and  Rabhina,  that  one  said  that  all 
laws  pertaining  to  Sabbath  remain  as  decreed  by  R.  Simeon, 
with  the  exception  of  one  thing,  that  had  been  set  aside  on  ac- 
count of  causing  disgust,  namely,  an  old  candlestick  that  had 
become  soiled  with  the  dripping  tallow ;  and  the  other  said,  that 
even  in  this  instance  the  Halakha  prevails  according  to  R.  Sim- 
eon, but  the  one  thing  that  does  not  remain  as  decreed  by  R. 
Simeon  is  the  case  of  a  candlestick  which  had  been  used  on  the 
same  Sabbath.  (Both  admit,  however,)  that  as  for  the  theory 
of  designation  where  expensive  articles  are  concerned,  R.  Sim- 
eon accepts  it  in  that  case,  and  declares,  that  they  may  not  be 
used  on  Sabbath,  as  we  have  learned  in  a  Mishna  (page  268)  con- 
cerning the  large  wood-saw  and  the  ploughshare,  which,  accord- 
ing to  R.  Simeon,  also  must  not  be  handled,  because  they  are 
expensive  (and  being  used  only  by  mechanics  should  not  be  han- 
dled by  others). 

MISHNA :  A  man  may  annul  vows  (of  his  wife  or  daughter)  * 
on  the  Sabbath,  and  consult  (a  sage)  as  to  vows  (relating  to  ob- 
jects) required  for  the  Sabbath.  Window-light  may  be  shut  out 
by  blinds;  a  piece  of  stuff  may  be  measured,  and  also  a  Mikvah 
(plunge-bath),  to  ascertain  whether  it  be  of  legal  size.  It  hap- 
pened in  the  days  of  R.  Zadock's  father,  and  in  the  days  of 
Abba  Saul  ben  Botnith,  that  they  closed  a  window  with  an 
earthen  jar,  and  then  tied  another  vessel  to  a  pole  with  papyrus, 
in  order  to  ascertain  whether,  in  a  covered  vessel,  there  was  an 
opening  one  span  high  or  not.  From  them  we  learn,  that  (in 
certain  cases)  it  may  be  permitted  to  close,  to  measure,  and  to 
tie  on  the  Sabbath. 

GEMARA:  The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question:  Does 
the  term,  "  required  for  the  Sabbath,"  in  connection  with  vows, 
apply  to  both  clauses  of  that  sentence;  and  if  it  does  not, 
neither  may  be  done  on  the  Sabbath,  whence  we  shall  learn, 
that  the  time  in  which  a  man  may  annul  the  vow  of  his  wife 

*  See  Numbers  xxx.  2. 


TRACT    SABBATH.  377 

or  daughter  does  not  expire  with  the  day,  but  continues  for 
twenty-four  hours;  because,  if  the  vows  do  not  relate  to  the 
Sabbath  and  neither  of  the  above  two  clauses  may  be  executed, 
the  man  can  annul  the  vow  at  night  after  the  Sabbath;  or  shall 
we  say  that  the  term,  "  required  for  the  Sabbath,"  applies  only 
to  the  latter  clause,  that  of  consulting  as  to  vows,  and  not  to 
the  first  clause,  that  of  annulling  the  vow,  which  would  estab- 
lish the  fact  that  the  time  for  annulment  expires  with  the  day 
and  does  not  continue  for  twenty-four  hours  ?  Come  and  hear: 
R.  Zoti,  one  of  the  disciples  of  R.  Papi,  taught,  that  only 
such  vows  as  relate  to  the  Sabbath  may  be  annulled  on  the  Sab- 
bath ;  thence  we  may  learn,  that  the  time  for  annulment  of 
vows  does  not  expire  for  twenty-four  hours  ?  Said  R.  Ashi  : 
"  Did  we  not  learn  (in  a  Mishna  of  Tract  Nedarim),  that  the 
time  for  annulment  of  vows  continues  for  one  day  only  ?  "  Con- 
cerning this,  there  is  a  difference  of  opinion  among  the  Tanaim 
(as  will  be  explained  in  Tract  Nedarim). 

"  And  consult  as  to  vows,''  etc.  The  schoolmen  propounded 
a  question :  "  Does  this  mean  to  say,  that  the  man  had  not  time 
before  Sabbath  {i.e.,  that  he  made  the  vow  on  the  Sabbath),  or 
even  if  he  had  time  before  Sabbath,  but  wishes  to  be  released 
from  his  vow  at  once  ? "  Come  and  hear:  The  rabbis  complied 
with  the  wish  of  R.  Zutra  the  son  of  R.  Zera,  and  released  him 
from  his  vow  on  a  Sabbath,  although  he  had  plenty  of  time  to 
have  this  done  before  Sabbath.* 

R.  Jose  wished  to  state,  that,  as  to  vows,  a  man  may  consult 
on  Sabbath  only  a  man  who  is  a  competent  authority  (Cha- 
cham),  but  he  must  not  consult  three  ordinary  men,  because 
that  would  appear  as  a  judgment  on  business  affairs.  Abayi  said 
to  him:  "  Whereas  three  men  may  be  consulted  standing,  or 
even  if  they  are  of  kin,  or  even  at  night,  it  will  not  appear  as 
an  ordinary  judgment." 

When  a  man  wishes  to  annul  the  vow  of  his  wife  on  the  Sab- 
bath, he  must  not  say  to  her,  as  on  a  week-day:  "  Thy  vow  is 
annulled,"  or,  "I  release  thee  from  thy  vow";  but  merely: 
"  Go  and  eat,"  or,  "  Go  and  drink,"  and  this  releases  her  from 
her  vow.  Said  R.  Johanan :  "The  man  must,  however,  think 
at  the  time  that  he  is  annulling  her  vow." 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha :  The  school  of  Shamai  said : 

*  All  this  is  originally  part  of  Tract  Nedarim.  We  have  in  consequence  omitted 
it,  but  a  part  of  that  passage  being  necessary  for  the  elucidation  of  the  above  text, 
we  have  incorporated  it  in  the  Tract  Sabbath. 


378  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

"  On  Sabbath  a  man  must  annul  the  vow  in  his  mind  only,  but 
on  a  week-day  he  must  proclaim  it  by  word  of  mouth."  The 
school  of  Hillel  said,  however,  that  be  it  Sabbath  or  a  week-day, 
it  is  sufficient  if  the  man  annul  the  vow  in  his  mind  without 
proclaiming  it. 

"  They  closed  a  window  with  an  earthen  jar,''  etc.  Said  R. 
Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  "  There  was  a  small  bridge  be- 
tween two  houses,  and  underneath  the  bridge  lay  a  part  of  a 
corpse,  and  a  cracked  tub  stood  on  top  of  the  two  houses;  but 
it  was  not  known  whether  the  crack  in  the  tub  was  large  enough 
to  admit  of  the  penetration  of  the  uncleanness  arising  from  the 
corpse.  So,  first  of  all,  all  holes  which  were  in  the  walls  of  the 
two  houses  were  stopped  up  with  towels ;  then  another  vessel  (a 
small  jar)  was  tied  with  papyrus  to  a  pole  and  laid  on  the  tub,  in 
order  to  see  whether  the  crack  was  one  span  deep  or  not."  * 

"  From  them  we  learn  that  {in  certain  cases)  one  may  close, 
measure,"  etc,  Ula  once  came  into  the  house  of  the  Exilarch 
on  Sabbath,  and  saw  Rabba  bar  R.  Huna  sitting  in  a  tub  of 
water  and  measuring  it.  Said  Ula  to  him  :  "  The  rabbis  only 
permitted  the  measuring  of  a  plunge-bath  for  ritual  purposes; 
but  did  they  permit  it  to  be  done  for  no  purpose  ? "  Rabba  bar 
R.  Huna  answered:  "  I  am  doing  this  merely  to  while  away  the 
time  (I  have  nothing  else  to  do,  and  must  not  think  of  the  Law 
while  bathing,  so  it  makes  no  difference)." 

*  This  explanation  is  taken  from  Rashi.  The  other  commentary  by  Tosphath 
differs  with  Rashi,  but  the  explanation  is  even  more  complicated  than  the  above. 
Hence  we  have  chosen  the  former. 


END  OF  TRACT  SABBATH. 


THE  PRAYER  AT  THE  CONCLUSION  OF  A  TRACT. 

Abayi  said :  "  May  it  be  reckoned  to  me  {for  my  reward  in  the 
world  to  come)^  that  whenever  I  noticed  a  young  scholar  {of  my 
college)  had  finished  a  tract  of  the  Talmud^  I  gave  a  feast  to  all 
the  sages  of  the  day.''     (Pages  250  and  251  of  this  tract.) 

[Bearing  the  above  motto  in  mind  and  as  a  matter  of  peculiar  interest,  we 
shall  translate  below  the  laudatory  prayer  published  in  every  edition  of  the 
ancient  Talmud  at  the  conclusion  of  each  tract,  and  in  justification  of  this 
our  digression  from  the  actual  text  would  state  the  following  : 

With  all  pious  Israelites  who  were  exclusively  engaged  in  the  study  of  the 
Talmud,  and  even  with  those  who  made  it  an  incidental  feature  of  their 
lives,  it  has  since  time  immemorial  been  the  custom  to  celebrate  as  a  happy 
event  the  completion  of  the  study  of  each  tract.  So  marked  was  the  degree 
of  gratification  at  this  frequent  occurrence,  that  it  became  customary  for  the 
first-born  sons  in  Israel,  who  in  commemoration  of  one  of  the  plagues  sent 
by  the  Lord  upon  the  Egyptians  were  in  the  habit  of  fasting  on  the  eve  of 
Passover,  to  complete  the  study  of  a  tract  of  the  Talmud  on  that  day,  and, 
thanks  to  the  feast  given  in  honor  of  the  occasion,  escape  the  rather  onerous 
duty  of  fasting  ;  and  even  in  the  nine  days  of  penance  occurring  before  the 
Fast  of  the  Ninth  of  Abh,  when  the  Temple  was  destroyed,  when  meat  was 
not  to  be  eaten  and  wine  was  not  to  be  drunk,  the  same  subterfuge  would 
be  resorted  to,  in  order  that  a  feast  might  be  given  and  thus  break  the  fast 
of  the  nine  days.  Apart  from  this,  the  prayer  is  rich  in  sentiment,  and 
deserves  to  be  rendered  at  the  end  of  this  volume  once  for  all.] 

We  shall  return  to  thee,  Tract  Sabbath,*  and  mayest  thou 
return  to  us!  We  shall  bear  thee  in  mind,  Tract  Sabbath,  and 
mayest  thou  bear  us  in  mind !  May  we  not  be  forgotten  by 
thee,  Tract  Sabbath !  and  thou  shalt  not  be  forgotten  by  us  on 
this  earth  nor  in  the  world  to  come ! 

[This  is  to  be  repeated  three  times,  when  the  following  is  to 
be  recited :] 

May  it  be  Thy  will,  O  Lord,  our  God  and  God  of  our  fathers, 
that  Thy  Law  may  be  our  pursuit  in  this  world  and  in  the  world 
to  come !  May  there  be  together  with  us,  in  the  world  to  come, 
Haninah  bar  Papa,  Rami  bar  Papa,  Na'hman  bar  Papa,  Ahayi  bar 
Papa,  Abba  Mari  bar  Papa,  Raphram  bar  Papa,  Rakhesh  bar 
Papa,  Sur'hab  bar  Papa,  Ada  bar  Papa,  and  Doro  bar  Papa.f 

*  At  the  conclusion  of  another  tract,  name  it  instead  of  Tract  Sabbath. 

f  At  the  close  of  a  learned  work,  entitled  "  Answers  and  Questions,"  by  Rabbi 
Moses  Iserles,  and  also  in  the  work  entitled  "  Sea  of  Solomon,"  by  Solomon  Lurie, 
Tract  Baba  Kumah,  may  be  found  the  reasons  why  the  abore  ten  names  must  be 
mentioned  in  the  prayer. 

379 


38o     PRAYER  AT    THE    CONCLUSION    OF   A   TRACT. 

Make  sweet,  O  Lord,  our  God,  the  words  of  Thy  Law  in  our 
mouths,  and  in  the  mouth  of  Thy  people  the  house  of  Israel; 
and  may  we,  our  children,  and  the  children  of  Thy  people  the 
house  of  Israel,  all  know  Thy  Name  and  learn  Thy  Law. 

Wiser  than  my  enemy  doth  Thy  commandment  make  me; 
for  it  is  perpetually  with  me.  Let  my  heart  be  entire  in  the 
statutes,  that  I  may  not  be  put  to  shame.  Never  will  I  forget 
Thy  precepts;  for  with  them  Thou  hast  kept  me  alive.  Blessed 
art  Thou,  O  Lord!  teach  me  Thy  statutes.  Amen,  Amen, 
Amen.     Selah,  Vaed  (Forever)  ! 

We  thank  Thee,  O  Lord,  our  God  and  God  of  our  fathers, 
that  thou  hast  cast  our  lot  amongst  those  that  dwell  in  the 
houses  of  learning,  and  not  amongst  the  occupants  of  the 
markets.  For  we  arise  early,  and  they  arise  early.  We  arise 
to  the  words  of  Law,  and  they  arise  to  words  of  vanity.  We 
strive,  and  they  strive.  We  strive  and  receive  our  reward,  while 
they  strive  in  vain.  We  run,  and  they  run.  We  run  towards 
everlasting  life,  and  they  run  towards  death,  as  it  is  written : 
"  But  Thou,  O  God!  Thou  wilt  bring  them  down  into  the  pit 
of  destruction ;  let  not  the  men  of  blood  and  deceit  live  out  half 
their  days;  but  I  will  indeed  trust  in  Thee!  " 

May  it  be  Thy  will,  O  Lord  my  God,  that  as  Thou  hast  as- 
sisted me  in  the  conclusion  of  Tract  Sabbath,  so  mayest  Thou 
assist  me  in  the  commencement  of  other  tracts  and  books  of 
Law,  and  in  their  conclusion :  that  I  may  live  to  learn  and 
teach,  to  observe  and  to  do  and  to  keep  all  the  words  of  the 
teachings  of  Thy  Law  with  affection.  And  may  the  merits  of 
all  the  Tanaim  and  Amoraim  and  other  scholars  uphold  me  and 
my  children,  in  order  that  the  Law  may  not  escape  from  my 
mouth,  from  the  mouths  of  my  children  and  children's  children 
forever,  and  may  it  be  verified  in  me  (all  that  is  written)  :  "  When 
thou  walkest,  it  shall  lead  thee;  when  thou  liest  down,  it  shall 
watch  over  thee;  and  when  thou  art  awake,  it  shall  converse  with 
thee.  For  through  me  shall  thy  days  be  multiplied  and  the 
years  of  thy  life  shall  be  increased  unto  thee.  Length  of  days 
are  in  her  right  hand,  in  her  left  are  riches  and  honor.  The  Lord 
shall  give  strength  unto  His  people;  the  Lord  will  bless  His 
people  with  peace." 


[Revised  July  22,  1896,  and  found  all  correct.— ISAAC  M.  WISE.] 


APPENDIX. 

Page  24  of  Volume  I.  of  this  tract  contains  a  Mishna  com- 
mencing with  the  statement:  "  And  these  are  some  of  the  regu- 
lations enacted  in  the  attic  of  Hananiah  ben  Hizkyah  ben 
Garon,"  and  concluding,  "  they  enforced  eighteen  regulations  on 
that  day."  At  the  same  time,  the  Mishna  fails  to  enumerate  in 
the  place  mentioned,  or  elsewhere,  these  eighteen  regulations. 
The  Gemara,  however,  conjectures  upon  their  character  and 
cites  them  in  a  scattered  and  incoherent  manner.  As  a  matter 
of  course,  this  is  not  done  without  the  adduction  of  numerous 
and  varied  opinions ;  but  the  conclusion  is,  that  the  eighteen  reg- 
ulations are  those  which  we  shall  enumerate  farther  on. 

In  another  section  of  the  Gemara  it  is  related,  that  three 
hundred  jars  of  wine  and  a  like  number  of  jars  of  oil  were  taken 
up  into  that  attic  in  order  to  afford  the  sages  no  opportunity  to 
leave  their  places  until  their  deliberations  concerning  the  regula- 
tions were  finally  concluded. 

Among  these  regulations  there  are,  however,  only  two  or 
three  concerning  Sabbath,  the  rest  being  dispersed  throughout 
the  Talmud  in  their  proper  departments  and  merely  mentioned 
as  regulations  enacted  during  that  session,  but  they  are  not  enu- 
merated in  regular  order  either  of  sequence  or  time  of  enact- 
ment. Hence  we,  in  consistency  with  our  method  of  transla- 
tion— viz.,  to  place  everything  in  its  proper  department — have 
omitted  in  this  tract  the  enumeration  of  these  regulations,  to- 
gether with  the  diverse  opinions  concerning  the  reasons  for  their 
institution,  which  reasons  as  cited  by  the  Gemara  are  very  ab- 
struse and  for  the  most  part  untenable. 

In  the  last  chapter  of  this  tract,  however,  mention  is  again 
made  of  the  eighteen  regulations,  and  it  is  declared,  that  their 
measure  was  made  "  heaping  full,"  while  elsewhere  in  the  Ge- 
mara the  assertion  is  made,  that  the  day  on  which  they  were 
enacted  was  as  grave  in  its  consequences  for  Israel  as  the  day  on 
which  the  golden  calf  was  made.  It  is  these  two  statements 
that  have  impelled  us  at  the  last  moment  to  embody  these  eigh- 
voL.  11. — 13  381 


382  APPENDIX. 

teen  regulations  in  an  appendix  at  the  end  of  this  volume,  and 
state  as  best  we  can,  after  careful  study  and  consideration  of  the 
subject,  the  most  potent  reasons  for  their  enactment. 

With  this  purpose  in  view,  we  shall  divide  the  eighteen  regu- 
lations into  five  classes,  as  follows:  Those  pertaining  to  Theru- 
mah  (heave-offerings),  Tumah  (uncleanness),  Chithon  (mingling 
with  other  nations),  Mikvah  (legal  bath),  and  Sabbath. 

Therumah  is  rendered  useless  when  brought  into  contact 
with  any  one  of  the  following  ten  subjects:  First:  With  a  man 
who  eats  a  thing  that  had  been  contaminated  by  a  parent  of 
uncleanness*  and  had  thus  become  unclean  in  the  first  degree. 
Second :  With  a  man  who  had  eaten  a  thing  unclean  in  the  sec- 
ond degree  {i.e.,  had  been  touched  by  a  thing  unclean  in  the 
first  degree).  Third :  With  a  man  who  had  drunk  unclean  bev- 
erages. Fourth :  With  a  man  who  had  bathed  his  head  and  the 
larger  portion  of  his  body  in  water  that  had  been  pumped  up 
(drawn  or  scooped),  and  not  in  a  legal  bath.  Fifth:  With  a 
clean  person  {i.e.,  one  who  had  already  taken  a  legal  bath,  but 
was  subsequently  drenched  with  three  lugs  of  drawn  water). 
Sixth :  With  the  sacred  scrolls  of  the  Holy  Writ,  either  in  part 
or  in  its  entire  form.f  Seventh:  With  hands  of  which  one  was 
not  quite  certain  that  they  had  been  kept  clean  the  whole  day. 
Eighth :  With  one  who  had  taken  a  legal  bath,  if  the  Therumah 
was  touched  before  sunset.  Ninth :  With  eatables  and  utensils 
which  had  become  unclean  through  beverages  (as  will  be  ex- 
plained in  Tract  Yodaim).  When  brought  in  contact  with  any 
one  of  these  nine  subjects,  Therumah  is  rendered  useless. 
Tenth :  The  crop  raised  from  Therumah  (seed)  is  of  the  same 
character  as  the  seed ;  if  the  latter  was  clean  when  planted  the 
crop  is  clean,  but  if  the  seed  was  unclean  the  crop  is  the  same. 
Nevertheless,  it  is  still  considered  Therumah,  and  subject  to  the 

*  By  a  "  parent  of  uncleanness"  is  meant  any  object  that  had  come  in  direct  con- 
tact with  a  corpse.     See  explanation  in  Tract  Shekalim. 

f  Why  contact  with  the  Holy  Writ  should  render  Therumah  unclean  can  in  our 
opinion  be  explained  only  as  follows  :  When  the  priests  came  to  demand  their  share 
of  the  Therumah,  it  is  highly  probable  that  they  did  this  with  a  correspondingly 
impressive  ceremony  and  read  the  part  of  the  Law  referring  to  the  Therumah  before 
the  donors.  If  such  was  really  the  case,  they  no  doubt  carried  the  scrolls  with  them 
wherever  they  went,  and  in  consequence  the  regulation  was  enacted  which  rendered 
the  Therumah  unclean  when  brought  into  contact  with  the  scrolls  or  book  contain- 
ing the  Holy  Writ.  Our  basis  for  this  assertion  is  the  ordinance  to  be  found  in  Tract 
Yodaim,  which  proclaims  that  the  scrolls  or  books  containing  the  Holy  Writ  render 
hands  unclean  when  coming  in  contact  with  them,  and  doubtless  the  hands  of  the 
priests,  which  were  afterwards  to  handle  Therumah,  are  meant. 


APPENDIX.  383 

laws  of  Therumah.  Thus  we  have  ten  regulations  concerning 
Therumah. 

Concerning  uncleanness,  there  were  four  regulations  enacted : 
First :  All  movable  things  bring  uncleanness  on  a  man  by  means 
of  a  tent,  not  larger  even  than  a  span,  covering  a  corpse,  even  if 
the  space  between  the  corpse  and  the  tent  was  but  an  awl's  width. 
(For  explanation,  see  Tract  Ahaloth.)  Second :  The  daughters 
of  the  Samaritans  are  considered  unclean  (as  women  suffering 
from  their  menstruation)  from  the  day  of  their  birth.  Third :  A 
child  of  a  heathen  is  considered  unclean,  because  it  is  considered 
as  one  afflicted  with  venereal  disease.  Fourth :  One  who  presses 
grapes  or  olives  renders  the  vessels  used  to  receive  the  must  or 
the  oil  susceptible  to  uncleanness.  (This  is  explained  in  detail 
in  Tract  Kelim.) 

Concerning  Chithon,  but  one  regulation  was  enacted,  cover- 
ing four  subjects :  It  was  prohibited  to  partake  of  the  bread,  oil, 
or  wine  of  other  nations  in  order  to  prevent  intermarriage  with 
their  daughters. 

Concerning  Mikvah,  one  regulation  only  was  enacted ;  viz. : 
If  the  water  running  out  of  a  rain-gutter  flow  directly  into  a 
Mikvah,  the  Mikvah  is  not  invalidated ;  but  if  the  water  was 
intercepted  by  a  vessel  from  which  it  flowed  into  the  Mikvah, 
the  latter  becomes  invalid ;  or  even  if  three  lugs  of  drawn  water 
were  poured  into  the  Mikvah,  they  render  it  useless  (see  Tract 
Mikvaoth). 

Concerning  Sabbath,  two  regulations  were  enacted :  First : 
One  shall  not  search  for  vermin  or  read  before  lamplight  (on 
Friday  night).*  Second:  One  who  was  overtaken  by  dusk  on 
the  Sabbath  eve  while  on  the  road  must  give  his  purse  to  a 
Gentile. 

The  learned  reader  who  is  not  familiar  with  the  intricate 
teachings  of  the  Talmud,  and  even  the  student  of  the  Talmud 
who  has  delved  in  its  labyrinths  of  lore  for  the  sake  of  probing 
into  the  ordinances  and  discussions  contained  in  its  volumes,  will 
be  quite  amazed  at  the  seeming  unimportance  and  triviality  of 
the  above  regulations,  unless  thoroughly  comprehensive  of  the 
spirit  of  the  Talmud  and  the  object  of  the  sages  in  their  day. 

At  the  time  when  these  regulations  were  enacted  and  enforced, 

*  There  are  differences  of  opinion  in  the  Gemara  as  to  the  division  of  the  regu- 
lations. Some  hold  that  they  should  be  grouped,  while  others  would  count  them 
separately.  The  matter  is  of  no  importance,  however,  and  hence  we  have  grouped 
them  in  conformity  with  the  number  stated  by  the  Mishna. 


384  APPENDIX. 

there  appeared  no  reasonable  grounds  for  their  enactment;  and 
even  the  reasons  advanced  by  the  Gemara  itself  in  a  faltering, 
groping  manner  are  in  many  instances  quite  absurd.  Entirely 
contrary  to  their  usual  custom,  the  sages  themselves  did  not  base 
these  regulations  upon  any  inference,  analogy,  passage,  or  ordi- 
nance contained  in  the  Holy  Writ,  a  very  remarkable  occurrence 
indeed.  Furthermore,  at  a  casual  glance,  the  student  will  not 
find  in  any  one  of  the  regulations  a  motive  based  even  on  com- 
mon sense. 

Strange  to  say,  it  has  also  occurred  that  our  excellent  He- 
brew poet  L.  Gordon,  in  a  poem  pungent  with  deepest  sarcasm 
and  pointed  ridicule,  commented  upon  these  eighteen  regulations, 
saying,  amongst  other  things:  "  Not  for  political  purposes,  not 
for  the  improvement  of  the  government  moral  or  material,  did 
our  sages  seclude  themselves  in  their  attic,  but  merely  to  pro- 
hibit matters  as  trivial  and  absurd  as  that  of  reading  by  lamp- 
light on  the  eve  of  Sabbath,"  etc. 

Had  the  poet,  however,  devoted  deeper  study  and  closer 
research  to  the  environments,  influences,  and  conditions  prevail- 
ing in  the  days  of  these  sages,  he  would  readily  have  discovered 
that  the  greatest  political  import,  the  gravest  questions  of  gov- 
ernment both  moral  and  material,  actuated  the  institution  of 
these  apparently  ridiculous  regulations,  all  culminating  and 
leaning  towards  the  accomplishment  of  one  great  object;  viz., 
that  of  keeping  the  small  nation  of  Jews  intact  and  guarding  it 
from  the  dangers  menacing  it  not  only  from  the  exterior  world 
but  from  its  interior  vampires  and  oppressors. 

It  should  not  be  overlooked  that  when  the  deliberations 
anent  these  regulations  were  about  to  be  commenced,  the  hall 
used  for  the  session  was  closely  guarded  by  men  armed  with 
keen-edged  swords,  under  instructions  to  permit  all  who  desired 
to  enter  to  do  so,  but  to  instantly  thrust  their  swords  through 
any  one  endeavoring  to  retreat ;  and  what  was  the  discussion 
commenced  with  ?  Merely  an  argument  determining  the  un- 
cleanness  of  certain  vessels,  which  the  priests  could  not  approach 
(as  will  be  seen  farther  on).  Still,  Hillel  the  Prince,  the  mighty 
sage,  sat  before  his  old-time  opponent  Shamai,  and  listened  to 
him  with  the  most  profound  attention  and  reverence,  just  as  if 
he  were  the  least  among  his  disciples. 

This  historical  fact  was  but  another  item  in  inducing  us  to 
digress  from  our  established  method  and  insert  the  eighteen  reg- 
ulations, together  with  the  explanation  of  their  importance;  for 


APPENDIX.  385 

had  we  not  done  so,  it  is  highly  probable  that  we  would  have 
called  down  the  criticism  of  many  scholars  who  could  not  over- 
look such  an  omission. 

At  no  period  in  the  history  of  the  Jewish  race  do  we  find  so 
much  deliberation,  profundity  of  thought,  and  depth  of  calcula- 
tion in  evidence  as  at  the  time  when  the  sages  secluded  them- 
selves in  the  attic  of  Hananiah  ben  Hizkyah,  There  it  was,  that 
means  were  devised  to  keep  the  nation  of  the  Jews — whose 
friends  were  always  in  the  minority,  and  whose  enemies,  not  only 
abroad  but  in  their  very  midst,  were  as  the  sands  of  the  sea — 
intact  and  proof  against  annihilation. 

All  of  the  literature  current  among  the  masses  was  carefully 
scanned  and  revised.  The  ethical  code  was  reenforced,  and 
wherever  necessary  purged  of  objectionable  matter.  This  cen- 
sorship was  carried  to  such  an  extent  that  it  was  attempted  to 
reject  even  Proverbs,  Ecclesiastes,  and  Ezekiel  as  undesirable; 
and  it  was  only  with  great  difificulty  that  those  in  authority 
were  prevailed  upon  to  let  them  remain.  The  records  of  ances- 
try, however,  tracing  the  descent  of  every  existing  family,  which 
were  the  pride  of  the  people,  as  well  as  all  works  treating  of 
medical  science  and  the  art  of  healing,  were  buried  and  hidden 
beyond  recovery.  Even  the  Apocrypha  were  eliminated  from 
the  Holy  Writ  and  declared  ordinary  literature,  and  many  other 
writings  unknown  to  us  even  in  this  day,  as  well  as  all  secret 
scripts,  were  thoroughly  revised  and  made  adaptable  to  the  ex- 
isting times  and  circumstances.  All  this,  and  more,  was  done 
with  the  sole  purpose  of  preserving  the  integrity  of  the  Jewish 
race  and  preventing  its  absorption  by  other  nations. 

Thus  it  was  commenced  to  accustom  the  Jew  to  study  and 
thought,  and  as  an  outcome  of  this  period  of  virtual  renaissance 
the  eighteen  regulations  were  enacted  with  two  prime  objects  in 
view,  as  follows : 

Firstly,  to  diminish  as  far  as  possible  the  constantly  growing 
domination  of  the  priests;  for  the  high-priestdom,  with  which 
the  supreme  governing  power  was  identical,  could  be  purchased 
with  money,  and  more  especially  because  the  number  of  priests 
in  the  last  century  prior  to  the  destruction  of  the  Temple  had 
grown  to  such  a  vast  proportion  that  those  in  actual  service 
alone  numbered  little  short  of  twenty  thousand.  Apart  from 
these  were  those  who  did  not  perform  actual  service,  while  enjoy- 
ing all  the  immunities  and  privileges  of  their  rank  as  priests,  and 
they  were:  Priests  who  had  the  least  blemish  on  their  bodies; 


386  APPENDIX. 

those  whose  descent  or  even  whose  wives'  descent  left  the  least 
room  for  doubt ;  and  the  wealthy  and  influential  priests  who 
would  not  perform  the  menial  duties  of  priests,  but  left  them  to 
the  less  fortunate  and  more  insignificant  of  their  number.  (See 
"  Die  Priester  und  der  Cultus,"  by  Dr.  Adolf  Biichler,  Vienna, 
1895.) 

Of  such  men  was  the  party  in  power  composed,  and  they 
made  but  too  free  a  use  of  their  authority.  As  a  matter  of 
course,  restrictions  had  to  be  provided  wherewith  to  relieve  the 
oppressed. 

Secondly,  the  object  was  to  prevent  the  amalgamation  of  the 
Jews  with  the  other  nations  with  whom  they  were  in  daily  and 
constant  association. 

Now  for  the  manner  in  which  the  first  object  was  about  to  be 
accomplished. 

Quite  some  time  previous  to  the  time  of  which  we  are  treat- 
ing, the  laymen  had,  after  a  hard  struggle,  succeeded  in  divest- 
ing the  priests  of  their  spiritual  power  {i.e.,  the  right  to  decide 
all  questions  pertaining  to  religious  and  ritual  matters,  whether 
a  thing  was  allowed  or  forbidden,  clean  or  unclean,  etc.),  by 
proving  that  the  priests  were  far  too  ignorant  to  be  competent 
judges.*  This  struggle  had  been  going  on  since  the  days  of 
Nehemiah,  for  prior  to  his  day  the  priests  were  the  sole  judges 
both  in  spiritual  and  in  temporal  affairs,  claiming  their  privilege 
in  accordance  with  the  passage  [Deut.  xxi.  5]:  "And  after 
their  (the  priests')  decision  shall  be  done  at  every  controversy 
and  every  injury."  Having  wrested  the  spiritual  power  from 
the  priests,  the  supervision  of  all  religious  and  ritual  matters 
was  conferred  upon  the  Pharisees,  who  henceforth  were  the  rec- 
ognized authorities  in  the  interpretation  of  the  Law.  This  ac- 
complished, the  next  step  decided  upon  was  to  limit  as  much  as 
possible  the  temporal  power  of  the  priests:  it  was  decided  not 
to  do  this  in  too  precipitate  a  manner,  but  cautiously  and  unos- 
tentatiously, using  as  a  medium  regulations  seemingly  unimpor- 
tant, but  the  hidden  motives  of  which  were  far-reaching  in  their 
consequences. 

The  time  of  Hananiah  ben  Hizkyah  was  the  more  opportune 
for  such  a  coup  d'dtat,  as  by  that  time  the  Pharisees  had  obtained 
the  upper  hand  of  all  other  existing  sects,  notably  the  Saddu- 
cees. 

*  See  Haggfai  ii.  13  and  14. 


APPENDIX.  387 

Now,  inasmuch  as  it  proved  to  be  an  easy  matter  to  enact 
laws  by  means  of  which  the  Jews  would  be  prevented  from 
amalgamating  with  other  nations,  such  as  the  prohibition  of  par- 
taking the  bread,  oil,  etc.,  of  Gentiles,  the  proclamation  declar- 
ing the  children  of  heathens  unclean  (to  prevent  the  children  of 
Jews  from  joining  them  at  play  and  thus  forming  attachments), 
and  the  women  of  the  Samaritans,  the  deadliest  enemies  of  the 
Jews,  unclean  (in  order  to  prevent  their  employment  as  servants 
by  Jews),  it  was  but  little  more  difficult  to  devise  laws  which 
would  forever  break  the  oppressive  domination  of  the  priests 
in  a  mild  but  nevertheless  effective  manner. 

The  first  step  necessary  for  the  accomplishment  of  this  desir- 
able end  was  to  completely  destroy  the  system  of  espionage 
practised  by  the  priests,  and  which  was  carried  on  to  such  an 
extent  that  spies  were  constantly  prying  into  actions  and  even 
utterances  in  the  houses  of  the  laymen.  This  was,  however,  by 
no  means  an  easy  task,  from  the  very  fact  that  the  priests  were 
virtual  shareholders  in  all  the  possessions  of  the  laymen.  One 
fiftieth  of  all  grain  raised  by  the  peasants  was  their  share  as 
Therumah;  one  tenth  of  such  grain  comprised  the  tithe,  and 
one  tenth  of  the  tithe  belonged  to  the  priests  individually;  the 
first  of  the  dough,  the  first  of  shorn  wool,  the  parts  of  slaugh- 
tered cattle,  the  firstlings  of  cattle,  the  firstfruits  of  trees  and 
produce,  all  belonged  to  the  priests;  and  it  was  but  natural 
that  they  were  to  be  found  in  the  houses  of  the  laymen  at  all 
times,  whither  they  would  come  not  to  humbly  ask  for  their 
donations,  but  to  demand  it  as  the  rightful  possessors  and  share- 
holders. Nor  were  they  at  all  backward  about  taking  a  hand  in 
the  management  of  all  other  affairs  of  the  layman,  under  the 
plea  of  guarding  their  own  interests ;  and  thus  at  times  willingly, 
sometimes  unwillingly,  they  were  the  spies  of  the  higher  author- 
ities of  the  government. 

The  question  then  arose  how  to  find  a  place  where  the  delib- 
erations for  the  suppression  of  this  constantly  growing  evil  could 
be  held  without  the  presence  of  the  spying  priests;  and  to  meet 
the  exigencies  of  the  case,  an  old  decree  that  had  been  promul- 
gated in  the  early  days  of  the  existence  of  the  Temple  was  again 
called  into  being  and  made  effective.  The  decree  was  the  one 
enacted  in  the  time  of  Jose  ben  Joezer  Ish  Izreda  and  Jose  ben 
Johanan  the  Jerusalemite,  and  read:  "  All  the  lands  outside  of 
Judaea  are  unclean  "  {i.e.,  all  eatables  and  beverages  containing 
any  degree  of  sanctity  whatever  are  rendered  unclean  by  coming 


388  APPENDIX. 

in  contact  with  the  soil  of  those  lands  outside  of  Judaea,  but 
aside  from  such  eatables  and  beverages  nothing  was  rendered 
unclean).  Now,  the  only  eatables  and  beverages  containing  any 
sanctity  whatever,  which  could  be  found  outside  of  Jerusalem, 
where  the  sacrifices  and  other  sanctified  articles  were  brought, 
were  the  gifts  and  the  Therumah  set  aside  for  the  priests.  Thus 
we  see  that  the  declaration  of  uncleanness,  ostensibly  directed 
against  all  eatables  containing  any  degree  of  sanctity,  was  in 
reality  directed  against  the  Therumah  of  the  priests,  while  the 
priests  themselves  were  flattered  by  the  elevation  of  the  Theru- 
mah to  the  degree  of  highest  sanctity,  and  its  object  will  be 
apparent  from  the  following  argument : 

The  Therumah  is  invested  with  sanctity  only  when  it  is  sep- 
arated from  the  bulk,  but  while  still  a  part  of  the  entire  crop  it 
is  regarded  as  ordinary  grain.  If  the  Therumah  were  separated 
from  the  bulk  in  any  land  outside  of  Judsea,  the  moment  it 
comes  in  contact  with  the  soil  it  becomes  unclean  and  unfit  for 
use.  This  fact  made  it  necessary  to  separate  the  Therumah  in 
Judaea.  The  transportation  of  the  entire  crop  to  Judaea  for  such 
a  purpose  involving  too  much  labor  and  expense,  part  of  the 
crop  was  set  aside  in  the  field,  and  from  that  part  a  sufficient 
quantity  was  separated  and  sent  to  the  holy  land.  There  the 
quantity  of  the  Therumah  (which  according  to  biblical  ordinance 
could  have  been  only  one  grain,  but  according  to  established 
custom  amounted  to  one  fiftieth  of  the  entire  crop)  was  sepa- 
rated from  the  quantity  sent.  The  consequence  of  this  mode  of 
procedure  was,  that  the  presence  of  the  priest  at  the  place  where 
the  crop  was  harvested  was  no  longer  required,  as  he  could  not 
demand  his  share  outside  of  Judaea.  Thus  it  was  rendered  pos- 
sible to  hold  a  convocation  where  the  presence  of  the  priest  was 
no  longer  to  be  dreaded.*  It  seems  that  up  to  the  time  of 
Hananiah  ben  Hizkyah  this  decree  had  been  evidently  disre- 
garded or  not  sufficiently  efTective,t  for  we  see  that  eighty  years 

*  At  the  same  time  that  the  decree  declaring  all  lands  outside  of  Judaea  unclean 
was  promulgated,  glassware  was  also  declared  unclean,  while  prior  to  that  time  glass- 
ware had  not  even  been  susceptible  to  uncleanness.  We  cannot  state  positively 
whether  this  was  done  in  order  to  render  the  first  decree  less  conspicuous  or  to  pre- 
vent the  priests  from  being  present  at  the  places  where  glassware  was  manufactured, 
which  were  all  outside  of  Judsea.  Be  that  as  it  may,  it  can  safely  be  assumed  that 
the  measure  was  another  political  ruse. 

f  It  was  not  sufficiently  effective  because,  in  order  to  circumvene  the  decree,  the 
priests  brought  chests  to  the  lands  outside  of  Judaea  in  which  to  store  the  bulk  of  the 
grain  before  separating  the  Therumah,  and  thus  prevent  the  contact  of  the  latter  with 
the  soil.     This  we  presume  from  a  hint  of  Rashi  to  that  effect. 


APPENDIX.  389 

prior  to  the  destruction  of  the  Temple  it  was  again  promulgated, 
and  this  time  reenforced  with  the  declaration  that  even  the  at- 
mosphere of  all  lands  outside  of  Judaea  was  unclean  and  all  arti- 
cles containing  any  degree  of  sanctity  were  rendered  unclean  by 
contact  with  such  atmosphere. 

The  eighty  years  before  the  destruction  of  the  Temple  corre- 
spond with  the  time  of  Hananiah  ben  Hizkyah,  and  it  is  quite 
possible  that  the  sages  called  by  the  Talmud  "  the  sages  of  the 
eighty  years  *'  were  the  same  that  took  part  in  the  deliberations 
in  the  attic,  and  that,  in  order  to  secure  at  least  one  place  where 
they  could  hold  a  convocation  undisturbed  by  the  priests,  they 
declared  even  the  atmosphere  of  the  lands  outside  of  Judaea 
unclean. 

The  Talmud  relates,  also,  that  in  the  city  of  Usha  the  decree 
was  reenforced  for  the  third  time  with  the  declaration  that  all 
articles  rendered  unclean  by  the  atmosphere  of  such  lands  were 
not  only  to  be  rendered  useless,  but  were  to  be  immediately 
burned,  as  a  precaution  lest  a  priest  might  accidentally  make  use 
of  them. 

Still,  the  decree  was  not  as  effective  as  it  should  have  been,  as 
long  as  the  priest  could  come  and  announce  that  he  would  use 
his  share  of  the  Therumah  for  seed  or  dispose  of  it  as  seed,  and 
to  meet  this  exigency  the  sages  of  the  attic  first  of  all  decreed 
that  the  crops  raised  from  clean  or  unclean  Therumah,  used  as 
seed,  were  clean  or  unclean  respectively. 

Again,  means  had  to  be  devised  to  rid  the  laymen  residing 
in  Judaea  proper  from  the  obnoxious  presence  of  the  priests  at 
all  times;  for  at  harvest-time,  or  when  the  grain  was  brought 
from  the  lands  outside  of  Judaea,  the  ever-watchful  priest  was 
on  hand.  To  this  end  the  subsequent  regulations  concerning 
Therumah  were  enacted  and  gradually  reenforced.  Thus  at  first 
a  man  who  had  eaten  a  thing  unclean  in  the  first  degree  rendered 
Therumah  useless;  then  a  man  who  had  eaten  a  thing  of  the 
second  degree  of  uncleanness,  until  finally  even  a  sacred  scroll, 
or  even  a  hand  that  had  come  in  contact  with  a  sacred  scroll, 
and  last  of  all  a  hand  that  was  not  known  to  be  positively  clean, 
rendered  Therumah  useless.  All  this  was  done  with  the  sole 
object  of  keeping  the  priests  out  of  the  houses  of  the  laymen, 
and  rather  bring  the  Therumah  to  them  than  have  them  come 
to  demand  it.  Should  they  come  in  spite  of  this,  it  was  not 
difficult  to  find  a  pretext  for  calling  the  Therumah  unclean.  In 
order,  however,  not  to  make  the  purpose  of  these  regulations 


390  APPENDIX. 

too  apparent,  and  thus  give  offence  to  the  priests,  other  regula- 
tions were  enacted  in  conjunction  with  these,  which,  while  of  no 
value  whatever  in  themselves,  acted  as  screens  for  the  actual 
intentions. 

It  is  now  not  difficult  to  explain  the  historical  sensation  caused 
by  the  deference  shown  by  Hillel  to  Shamai  at  the  commence- 
ment of  these  deliberations,  and  the  reasons  which  prompted  the 
posting  of  an  armed  guard  at  the  entrance  of  the  hall.  Hillel, 
in  his  capacity  as  a  prince  of  Israel,  was  somewhat  too  timid  to 
proceed  against  the  priests  in  too  harsh  a  manner;  but  the  masses 
were  so  much  incensed  against  their  oppressors,  and  so  deeply 
conscious  of  their  grievances,  that  he  could  not  stem  the  popular 
tide  against  them.  In  this  emergency  it  was  Shamai,  under  ordi- 
nary circumstances  of  lesser  consequence  than  Hillel,  that  proved 
to  be  the  champion  of  the  popular  cause ;  and  in  order  to  insure 
for  him  a  telling  majority  when  the  question  came  up  for  a  final 
vote,  the  doors  of  the  hall  were  guarded  so  that  none  could  leave, 
while  all  were  allowed  to  enter.  Seeing  the  patriotism  and  popu- 
larity of  Shamai,  the  prince  could  not  help  bowing  to  popular 
sentiment  and  showing  respect  to  the  favorite  of  the  hour. 

It  would  require  a  volume  of  many,  many  pages  to  demon- 
strate how  each  one  of  the  regulations  instituted  was  directed 
against  the  priests,  how  deeply  it  injured  them,  and  in  what 
measure  it  curtailed  their  previous  unlimited  sphere  of  action ; 
also,  especially,  how  the  dispute  between  Hillel  and  Shamai 
concerning  the  susceptibility  to  uncleanness  of  vessels  used  at 
grape  and  olive  pressing  concerned  the  priests.  Even  then,  a 
person  not  thoroughly  imbued  with  the  spirit  of  those  times 
could  scarcely  understand  it ;  but  we  would  request  that  the 
eighteen  regulations  be  again  carefully  perused,  and  it  will  read- 
ily be  observed  by  even  the  casual  reader,  from  the  hints  given, 
that  the  ten  ordinances  *  relating  to  Therumah  were  directed 
entirely  against  the  priests,  and  the  four  concerning  uncleanness 
were  in  part  against  the  priests  and  in  part  against  mingling  with 
other  nations;  as  for  the  regulation  against  mingling,  that  goes 
without  saying,  while  the  regulations  concerning  the  Mikvah  and 
Sabbath  were  but  incidental  and  trivial  matters  intended  as  a 
screen  for  the  grave  importance  of  those  mentioned. 

*  We  have  not  enumerated  the  ordinances  in  their  regular  order  of  sequence  as 
to  the  time,  for  they  are  scattered  in  the  Talmud  without  any  order,  but  arranged 
them  more  in  accordance  with  their  importance  and  severity,  according  to  the  com- 
mentary of  Rashi. 


Princeton  Theological  Seminat7  Libraries 


1    1012  01249  6867 


