7 aN¢ 


Nerd 


» 

































on 





Nok 








thls om, 


yy 





t 


py erty 





ox 


> 





Rete aN 











* 





Sey OVEN EN 





os 





Xe 






















. oe Aa 
eae 






































ns 















iy ss 





a 


KS oh 
Ae 











Ne Ad AA 








“e 
“ 


*, 


ot 
: < 
>| eeeees 
< 4 







“5%, 






















As, 


pe 
oe 
es 












= 
re 7 
: oor 
kA Eee 
4: at 
y) 2 7 
3 
Pat at. >! < 
4 ¢ 
eran See sete 
$434 Pre estizee 




















fe 























a oe 










7 vy! 
Sepaieesse Hinstet =e 
ORG Ge a8 ne eS 

< RaSete te te 









i 
Roe 

* 

¥ 





oe 


















~ 
MO kh 


















<5 6. 





* 

rye 

Pewee 
AN, 


ys 








KA, 
* 














Bis A 


betes 








ary 








ne 
+A, 


fe 


es 
a 





LY 
rs 


ry 





SES & 
we 


is 





reer ees 


SAO 


™! 
ater yies 
coarse 














* 
+S ter 
Secets 









































































% 
ee 



































42 





















4 

soos 

Srpravarprseyte 
eet etahe® 

- Matra. 





Piet ely ye eyes 

















Mae he 






<< ‘ 
S« : 3 
* F 
< . i 
wey , +, 
! m : 
b. * 4 - 
>: 4 
x “ 
< le 1 
ee “< te ‘ 
+ : : ; i 
Pe) 7 
48 a SAD 
14 a “ } 
cat : 








ofeen 

etaStiayerace 
STb aS, 

a 

ak a4 












































_* 






















ae: 
Ve ae 


- 











ar 


















Ne -, 
aes 
os 


aa 













per 
Tew oS 












es 

State 7,7 
hat d Se Sa ox 5: 
> > 
bet Acme 
Perey 
se 
eat 
¢ 


. Shey < 
ot te se, 
: Setates oh 









iat 
es nate 
*i4 4a Stat 

sfefetaetesdice 





4 
SS 


4, 
<3 










7 

+ 

<4 
Henan aod 
> 


4, t Sei 
Sates Settee Tes 
Thee 4 ; 
Meta setcty ne terassats 
aseheseces ty 


sone 






















Ke 















te 


























» 





4 
ee Sion 
wes Brier brs 


















Retake roe Mots 
fade Seca 
pouaee 
na 

= 
aaa 


ao chain’ 














LIBRARY 
KNOX COLLEGE 


TORON?): - 





_KAVEN LIBRARY — 
KNOX COLLEGE 
TORONTO 








LIBRARY 
KNOX COLLEGE, 


TORONTO, 


NEW EDITION 


OF THE 


BABYLONIAN TALMUD 


Original Tert, Edited, Corrected, Formulated, and 
Translated into English 


BY 


MICHAEL L. RODKINSON 


SECTION MOED (FESTIVALS) 
TRACTS BETZAH, SUCCAH, AND MOED KATAN 


Volume VII. 


NEW YORK 


f NEW TALMUD PUBLISHING COMPANY 
j 54 EasT 106TH STREET 


CAVEN LIBRARY 


KNOX COLLEGE 
.. TORONTO 





EXPLAN ATORY REMARKS. 


In our translation we adopted. these. principles 
1. Tenan of the original—We have learned ina 
learned in @ Boraitha; Itemar—i\t was taught. 


Mishna, Tania—We have 


2. Questions are indicated by the interrogation point, and are immediately 


followed by the answers, without being so marked. 
3. When in the original there occur two statements separated by the phrase, 
Lishna achrena ot Waibayith Aema or Tkha damri (literally, “otherwise interpreted ga 


we translate only the second. 


4. As the pages of the original are indicated in our new Hebrew edition, it is not 


deemed necessary to mark them in the English edition, this being only a translation 
from the latter. x 

5, Words or passages enclosed in round parentheses ( ) denote the explanation 
rendered by Rashi to the foregoing sentence or word. Square parentheses {] contain 


commentaries by authorities of the last period of construction of the Gemara. 


60°02, 
(J ot 


CopyYRIGHT, 1899, BY 
MICHAEL.L. RODKINSON. . 


pgeeg nd ti 




















TO 
LOUIS STERN, Esa. 


IN RECOGNITION OF HIS MANY PHILANTHROPIC DEEDS AND 
VALUABLE SERVICES IN THE CAUSE OF JUDAISM 


AND ITS LITERATURE 


THIS BOOK IS MOST RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED 


BY THE EDITOR 


MICHAEL L. RODKINSON 


New York, Friday wy 9''5, April 28th, 1899. 





. 


\ 
— 


BaF ay 
sage hatte Sa rh 
Bohm, ie oe 


” 
SF 





—_— 











TO THE READER. 


THIS volume contains three tracts, in order to maintain some 
uniformity in the size of the volumes,* whereas in former issues 
one subject required three volumes and another one volume, 
while in two instances each of two volumes treated of two 
different subjects; viz., three volumes being devoted to subject 
Sabbath (including Erubin), one volume to Passover, one to 
the Half-shekels (Shekalim—which were to be given in the be- 
ginning of each year) and New Year, one to the Day of Atone- 
ment (including also the Holocausts for the Altar), Of the 
three tracts now presented, Tract Succah treats of the Booth, 
Palm Branches, Citrons, etc., and specially appertains to the 
Feast of Tabernacles, the other two treating of the laws and 
regulations as to festivals in general; viz, Yom Tob (literally © 
“Good Days’’) of all festivals, including also the New Year, 
and Moed Katan (Minor Festivals) of the middle days between 
the first and seventh days of Passover and between the first 
and eighth days of Tabernacles. 

As to the treatment of the semi-festivals, viz, Hanukka and 
Purim—the former is included in Tract Sabbath, Volume I., and 
the latter, which has a tract to itself, named “Megilah,”’ or 
“ Book of Esther,” is to appear in the next and last volume of 
this section, and contains Taanith (the Regulation of Fast Days), 
Megilah (which is to be read while fasting), and, finally, Ebel 
Rabbathi (Great Mourning), which is also called “Sema’hoth ” 
(Joys) for reasons which will be explained in our introduction 
to it. . 

We do not at present say more about the tracts of this sec- 
tion, as it is our intention to make further comment on them in 
our next volume. 

New York, 4fril, 1899. 





* Each tract, however, is paged separately, for the reason stated in Introduction 
to Vol. VI., p. xvi. 














Riraigl Lt Sa et A Ch stg 


TOPS RA NRT: TTT ORT 





CONTENTS. 


} To THE READER, : ‘ 
_ Synopsis or Supjects or VoL. VII.—Tract BETzau, . ; 





| CHAPTER I. 


| REGULATIONS CONCERNING EATABLES AND BEVERAGES: PREP- 
| ARATIONS FROM THE First Day OF FESTIVALS TO THE 
SECOND, FROM THE FESTIVALS TO THE SABBATH, AND 


ViIcE VERSA, : ; ; , . ‘ ‘ ‘ : 


f CHAPTER IL, 






REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE COMBINING OF COOKERY ON 
i! A FESTIVAL PRECEDING A SABBATH,, . . . . 


CHAPTER III. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING FISHING AND HUNTING ON FEs- 
TIVALS, 2 ‘ . 5 E ; ‘ ‘ ‘ 


CHAPTER IV. 
REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE CARRYING AND HANDLING 
or THINGS ON THE FESTIVAL, . ‘ : ‘ ; : 
CHAPTER V. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING LABORS PERMITTED AND NOT PER- 
MITTED ON BIBLICAL FESTIVALS, * : : 


a 


28 


46 


60 


7° 


ae 
as 


on 








SYNOPSIS .OF SUBJECTS - 


OF , 


VOLUME VII.—TRACT BETZAH.* 





CHAPTER I. 


MIsuNA I. Why a new-born thing on a festival must not be used on the 
same day. The different opinions for the reason of it. How is the case 
with the same on the two festival days which are kept in exile only but not 
in Palestine? How is the case when a Sabbath falls on one of the two days 
of the exile festivals? And-how.-is the law of the same on the two days of 
New Year, which are kept in Palestine also—are they considered as 
one sacredness or two? About a burial on festivals and New Year, An 
animal or fowl whose blood must be covered when slaughtered, in which 
case they may be slaughtered on a festival. . And how is it with a cross 
which is doubtful, if it.is considered a wild or a domestic animal. The 
ordinance of Rabban Johanan b, Zakkai,.. —. ‘ ‘ I-15 

MISHNAS. II, to VIII; Concerning the preparing of doves of the cots 
for the festival, and their removal from one cot to another. The shutters of 
shops, may they be removed ? If birds have removed from their prepared 
place? If one has.prepared black pigeons and finds white ones, or more 
or less than he has prepared previously. Which utensils are allowed to 
be used for the purpose they were made, and for other purposes. If the 
tallow of the slaughtered on,the; festival may be salted.. The three things 
the finishing of which is allowed. What it is allowed to carry on public 
ground. If it is lawful. to give to the priest the first. dough on the festival. 
The necessary change in laboring from the week-days, how shall it be 
Aaa ee ao ae ofa MPTP EP oe . ; . . 15-24 

MISHNAS JX, to XII. If spices may be pounded on a festival. How 
about Ptisana?. How to pick pulse on a festival, The custom of the house 
of Rabban Gamaliel in-such cases. How about sending as presents on a 
festival, shoes, sandals, phylacteries, etc, .  . +» +. «+ 24-27 





* See Introduction to Synopsis in Tract Sabbath, Vol. I., p. xxix; also note at 
end of Synopsis in Vol. V, 


xii SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


CHAPTER II. 


MISHNAS I. to III. Of what kind of eatables the cooking Erub may be 
prepared. How it is if one has forgotten to make it, and how it is with him 
who has not madeit intentionally. About the purification of vessels on the 
festival. About bringing peace, vow, and voluntary offerings on the festi- 
yal. About the four hundred Zuz which a sick person ordered to give to a 
certain man, that he should marry his daughter, and the latter refused. The 
discussion of the schools of Shammai and Hillel about laying tne hands on 
the offerings on the festival, . . . « «2 « .  »« 2840 

MISHNAS IV. to VII. The three things which R. Gamaliel decided as 
the school of Shammai. Is it lawful to paint the eyes on a festival? (See 
also Appendix on page 45.) About baking thick loaves. How about 
putting spice on live coals. The three things which R. Elazar b. Azariah 
permitted, and the other sages prohibited. The laws about a pepper hand- 
mill and achild’s carriage, . «© «© © + ¢ ee AOS 


CHAPTER IIL. 


MisHNAS I. to IV. The contradiction between the Tosephta and the 
Mishna concerning beasts and fowls. Why acertainjbird is called “ Durur.” 
Why R. Gamaliel did not accept the fish which a Gentile brought him as a 
present. If the beasts which are in a garden must be prepared previously. 
In what case a man may be carried in a chair. Why R. Na’hman allowed 
his Yalta to be carried. If it is lawful to examine the blemish of a first-born 
animal, and how is the case if the animal is born with a blemish? About 
the Amora who was erratic in his teachings (see also footnote). Does the 
law of Muktzah exist for the halfofa Sabbath? . . ° ‘ 46-54 


MISHNAS V. to X._ How to buy an animal for the festival. How to buy 
meat from the-butcher and things from the grocery without naming a price. 
Is it allowed to measure beverages on the festival by the seller ? and what 
shall be done to satisfy both the buyer and the seller, About the three hun- 
dred pitchers of wine, and the same number of oil, which were gathered 
from the froth, and from the vessels after emptying, which were brought 
to the treasurer of charity, and his answer, How to feed the animals, 
when measuring is needed. How the wives of R. Joseph and R. Ashi sifted 
their flour on the festival, and of the approval and disapproval of their 
husbands, Bath p as aS mr MM rE SR 


CHAPTER IV. 


MISHNAS I. to VI. How to carry jars of wine from one place to another, 
and from what stacks fuel may be taken. If some may be taken from a 
ruined booth, Also from what kind of beams wood may be cut for the fes- 
tival. If it is permitted to make a hole in a tent filled with fruit. How it is 
about making a hole in clay for the purpose of using it foralamp. The six 
things which Bar Qappara taught about a wick. There are three men 
whose life is not called life, . % é ‘ F A ; A 60-64 








SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. xiii 


MISHNAS VII, to IX. How to roast salted fish. Is it allowed to smear 
an oven with clay? ‘The difference of opinion between the Amoraim about 
Hizra. Mf broken vessels may be used for fuel. Branches of spice-trees to 
enjoy the odor, whether they may be handled. And how to grind spices. 
How R. Jehudah used to break twigs off from spice-trees, to supply to his 
guests. If it is allowed to make heaps of fuel in the yard. Ovens or hearths 
standing in the yard, are they considered as vessels? If the hair of an 
animal’s feet may be removed by fire. If one wishes to partake of the 
fruit of a Sabbatical year, what must he previously do? In which case. 
may the same be used if it is doubtful whether the heave-offering was sep- 
arated? , at #7 peek nets ‘ TEvee Sheme coeey 


CHAPTER V. 


MISHNAS I. to VI. The difference between Sabbath and a Festival, in 
throwing and covering fruit. About removing fruit from one roof to another. 
The things which are prohibited on account of Sh’buth (Sabbath-rest—rab- 
binically), The things which are prohibited as optional. The legal limit 
within which cattle and utensils may be brought for the use of the festival. 
About a barrel of wine and an animal which were bought in partnership by 
two men from different places, what shall be done, and the different law 
about these two. What R. Abba prayed when he intended to go to 
Palestine, and what he said. after he reached there. The five things which 
have been taught about burning coals. The Babylonian travellers. Fruit 
which is deposited in another’s house, who is to be considered the owner of 
same concerning the carrying of it. The advice to water an animal before 
slaughtering it, ; ‘ P ° ; P : . : " 70-78 





TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 





CHAPTER I. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING EATABLES AND BEVERAGES: PREPARA- 
TIONS FROM THE FIRST DAY OF FESTIVALS TO THE SECOND, FROM 
THE FESTIVALS TO THE SABBATH, AND VICE VERSA, 


MISHNA: An egg laid on a festival may be eaten on the 
same day. So say the school of Shammai; the school of Hillel, 
however, say it must not. The school of Shammai say that 
leaven the size of an olive and leavened bread the size of a date 
(are to be removed before Passover), but the school of Hillel say 
that both must be removed when of the size of an olive only. If 
wild game or fowl is to be slaughtered on a festival, the school of 
Shammai say one should dig up (the earth) with a spade and 
cover the blood, but the school of Hillel forbid the killing unless 
loose earth had been prepared for that purpose the day before. 
Both schools, however, agree that if the killing had been done, 
one may loosen some earth and cover the blood with it, for ashes 
are always ready in the hearth. 

GEMARA: To what kind of hen does the Mishna refer? If 
to a hen designed for eating, why then does the school of Hillel 
prohibit the eating of the egg? Is it not a part of the eatables 
which were prepared (for the festival)? If to a hen kept for lay- 
ing eggs only, what is the reason of the school of Shammai, who 
permit to eat it? Is this not Muktzah (designation *)? Should 
we suppose that the school of Shammai do not hold the theory 
of Muktzah, even then the eating of it could not be permitted, 
as it is a new-born thing, and even one who denies the theory of 


Muktzah should hold to the theory of Nolad (new-born thing). 


Nay, R. Na’hman has declared that one who denies he theory of 
Muktzah denies also the theory of Nolad. 





. * See footnote on p. 79 of Tract Sabbath. 


2 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


If so, then the school of Shammai will be in accordance with 
‘R. Simeon (who denies the theory of Muktzah), and the school 
of Hillel will be in accordance with R. Jehudah (who holds it); 
but this would not be the case, because did not R. Na’hman state 
(in Tract Sabbath) that the school of Hillel are always in accord- 
ance with R. Simeon and the school of Shammai with R. Je- 
hudah? R.Na’hman may say: Because we found an anonymous 
Mishna (in Tract Sabbath, p. 375) which is in accordance with R. 
Simeon, therefore he declares that concerning the Sabbath the 
school of Hillel hold with R. Simeon, and concerning the festi- 
vals we found an anonymous Mishna (Sabbath, p. 375) in ac- 
cordance with R. Jehudah, therefore he declares that the school 
of Hillel are in accordance with R. Jehudah, who is more rigorous. 

Let us see: Who makes the Mishna anonymous? Rabbi (its 
editor). Why does he make it anonymous in regard to Sabbath 
in accordance with R. Simeon, and in regard to festivals (makes 
it anonymous) according to R. Jehudah? This is no question. 
Relating to Sabbath, which is so rigorous that it has a capital 
punishment and there is no fear that anyone will dare to dis- 
regard its rules, therefore Rabbi made an anonymous Mishna 
in accordance with the more lenient R. Simeon; but relating 
to festivals, which have no capital punishment at all, and the 
rufes are lenient, for fear that otherwise they may be disre- 
garded, Rabbi made an anonymous Mishna in accordance with 
R. Jehudah. 

Now, then, if the Mishna means a hen which is kept for laying 
eggs, and the reason that the school of Hillel prohibit it, is be- 
cause the egg is Muktzah, why do they not differ about the hen 
itself? (whether it is permitted to eat it or not), Therefore said 
Rabba: The Mishna refers to a hen kept for eating, and to a 


4estival which falls after Sabbath; and the teaching of the school 


of Hillel is not for the reason of Muktzah, but of preparation ; 
é.e.,an egg which is laid to-day Rabba is certain that it was ripe 
the preceding day, and it is in accordance with his theory, thus: 
It is written [Ex. xvi. 5]: “ And it shall come to pass on the sixth 
day, when they prepare what they shall have brought in”; ze., 
only on a week-day shall anything be prepared for the Sabbath 
or for festivals, but nothing should be prepared on a festival for 
the Sabbath, and vice versa. 

Said Abayi to Rabba: Let it then be permitted on a festival 
which does not come after Sabbath, and he answered: It is as a 
precautionary measure for the festival which falls after Sabbath. 


¥ 





——— 





TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 3 


Said Abayi again: Let it then be permitted on a Sabbath, and 
he rejoined again: It is a precautionary measure for the Sabbath 
which falls after a festival. Said Abayi again: Do we take such 
precautionary measures? Have we not learned in a Boraitha: 
If one kills a hen on a festival and finds in it ripe eggs, he is per- 
mitted to eat them? Now, if such precautionary measures are 
taken, why should not the same precautionary measure be taken 
for the above eggs, for fear lest one eat new-laid eggs? Rabba 
again rejoined: Ripe eggs in the entrails of a hen are not a usual 
occurrence, and for an unusual occurrence no precautionary meas- 
ures are taken. 

R. Joseph, however, said that (the prohibition of eating an 
egg from a hen kept for eating) is as a precautionary meas- 
ure lest one may eat fruit which has fallen from a tree on 
Sabbath. R. Itz’hak said that the precautionary measure is 
taken lest one drink the beverages which flow from a tree on Sab- 
bath. From the following teaching we learn that R. Johanan 
agrees with R. Joseph’s opinion, viz.: R. Johanan found R. Je- 
hudah contradicting himself, namely: We have learned in a 
Mishna in Sabbath, one may not press fruit to derive beverage 
from it; and even if the beverage flowed of itself, it is prohibited. 
R. Jehudah, however, said: If the fruit was for the purpose of 
eating, the beverage which flows from it is permitted, and if the 
fruit was for beverage, the latter is not permitted. From this we 
see that although the beverage which flows from the fruit was not 
prepared on the preceding day, its use is nevertheless permitted ; 
and in another place we find that the same R. Jehudah said, 


’ “that an egg which was laid on one festival day may be eaten on 


the second festival day ’’—on the second, but not on the first. 
This contradicts his first dictum, that the beverage may be used 
on the samé day. And R. Johanan answered about this contra- 
diction thus: Say, that it is on the contrary, that not R. Jehu- 
dah permits to drink the beverage, but the first Tana in the above 
Mishna, Now, when R. Johanan contradicted the teaching con- 
cerning the beverage and the egg, we must say that the prohibi- 
tion of both is for one and the same reason. 

Rabbina the son of R. Ula said: It isnot so. R. Jehudah, 
who says that the egg must be eaten on the second day, and not 
on the first, refers to a case where the hen was kept for laying 
eggs only, and this is according to his theory of Muktzah. 

An objection was raised from the following Boraitha: An egg 
which was laid on Sabbath or on a festival day must not be 


4 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


handled to cover a vessel with it, or to support the foot of a bed 
with it. It is permitted, however, to cover it with a vessel to 
prevent it from breaking. If it is doubtful whether the egg was 
laid on that day or not, it is also disallowed to use it. Should it 
become mixed in even with a thousand eggs, all the eggs are pro- 
hibited to be used on that day. It is right according to Rabba’s 
teaching, who says that when the egg is prohibited for the reason 
of preparation, which is biblical, therefore a doubtful egg must 
not be used because it is doubtful- according to a biblical law, 
and all doubts about biblical ordinances must be decided more 
rigorously ; but according to R. Joseph and R. Itz’hak, who say 
that it is prohibited only as a precautionary measure, why then is 
it not allowed to use the doubtful egg that is so only according 
to a rabbinical ordinance, and all doubts concerning rabbinical 
ordinances must be decided more leniently? The latter part of 
the Boraitha means that it was doubtful whether it was laid by a 
hen biblically forbidden to be eaten (¢.g., sick or crippled). If it 
is so, how will the latter part of this Boraitha, “if it were mixed 
in even with a thousand eggs, all are prohibited,” be explained ? 
It would be right if there were a doubt whether it was laid on a 
- week-day or on a festival, where the prohibition is temporary 
(because on the morrow all may be eaten); and there is a rule 
when anything is temporarily prohibited, if it is mixed in with 
a thousand, the prohibition remains, but if the egg was doubtful 
to be from a biblically forbidden hen (in which case the prohibi- 
tion remains in force always), then if it is mixed in with other eggs, 
why should they all be invalid? Let it be ignored as against 
the majority? (that one egg be removed, and the remaining 
should be used). The assumption that an egg is a thing of value, 
and therefore must not be ignored, would apply only to those 
who say that all things usually counted must not be ignored; but 
what can be said to those who say that only things which are 
always sure to be counted may be ignored? (This objection 
remains.) , 

R. Ashi said: The meaning of “ doubtfulness”’ in the Borai- 
tha is, whether it is a week or festival day, it’ is nevertheless 
prohibited to use it, although according to R. Joseph and R. 
Itz’hak it is only a rabbinical doubt, because the prohibition is 
only temporary, and in case of a temporary prohibition even a 
rabbinical one must wait till the prohibition is over. 

We have learned in a Boraitha: Anonymous teachers in the 
name of R. Eliezer said that the égg in question may be eaten 





TRACT BETZAH (YOM T'OB). 5 


together with the hen that laid it. To what case does the 
Boraitha refer? If the hen is kept for eating, then it is self- 
evident; if it is a hen kept for laying eggs, then both are not 
allowed to be used. Said R. Zera: The Boraitha means to say 
that the egg can only then be eaten when the hen which laid 
it was also eaten. How shall it be explained? - Said Abayi: In 
case the hen was bought not’ for: any definite purpose, -if it was 
slaughtered and prepared, then it is clear that it was bought for 
the festivals, and the egg may also be used; but if the hen is 
kept alive, then it is clear that it was bought with the intention 
to keep it for laying eggs, and then it must not be used. R. 
Mari, however, said that the Boraitha meant to say nothing, but 
merely exaggerated (7.2., the egg may be eaten in’any manner), 
as we have learned in the following Tosephta: A new-laid egg 
may be eaten with the hen that laid it; and a new-born pullet 
with its shell. As the shell cannot be-used and is only an exag- 
geration, so is it also meant with the egg and the hen which 
laid it. 

It was taught: If Sabbath fell after a festival, or vice versa, 
anything born on one of these days must not be used on the 
other. So said Rabh. R. Johanan, however, allowed it to be 
used ‘on the morrow. 

Shall we assume that Rabh holds that both are of one and the 
same sanctitude? Did not Rabh say that the Halakha prevails 
according to the four old sages * who are in accordance with R. 
Eliezer, who said that Sabbath and the festivals are of different 
sanctitudes? Nay, here they do not differ concerning the 
sanctitudes, but as to the law of preparation mentioned above 
in the name of Rabba. Rabh is in accordance with this theory 
and R. Johanan is not. 

The Tanaim of the following Tosephta differ on the same 
point : If an egg was laid on the Sabbath, it may be eaten on the 
festival, and vice versa. R.Jehudah in the name of R. Eliezer, 


however, said, that there is still a difference of opinion among 


the’ schools of Shammai and Hillel.’ According to the former it 
may, and according to the latter it may not be eaten. 

' The householder of R. Adda b. Ahabah had eggs which were 
laid on a festival preceding the Sabbath; he came to him and 
inquired whether it is permitted to roast them that day, to be 
eatefi on the morrow. He answered’: What is thy question? 





* See Tract Erubin, ‘p. 82. 


6 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. - 


Because thou thinkest that when Rabh and R. Johanan differ the 
Halakha prevails according to the latter; yet even R. Johanan 
permits only to sip the egg when raw on the morrow, but he 
never permitted to handle it on the same day. 

The householder where R. Papa lived, according to others 
another man, had eggs which were laid on a Sabbath preceding a 
festival, and he asked R. Papa if they could be eaten on the mor- 
row, and R. Papa answered him: Leave it until to-merrow and 
come again, because Rabh did not use an interpreter on a festival 
day after meals to decide questions belonging to the next day, 
for fear, perhaps, that he had drunk more than a quarter of a lug 
of wine. When he came on the next day R. Papa said to him: 
If I had decided the question yesterday, when I was a little light- 
headed, I would have erred, and would have decided according to 
R. Johanan, as the rule is where Rabh and R. Johanan differ, the 
Halakha prevails always according to R. Johanan, and this would 
not be right, because Rabha said that the case in question is one 
of the three * where the Halakha prevails according to Rabh, both 
when he is lenient :as well as rigorous. 

R. Johanan said: Wood which falls from a tree on Sabbath 
must not be used on the following festival day; and if it would 
be asked what is the difference between the wood and the egg, it 
can be said that the egg can be used while raw just after it has 
been laid, and if left until the next day, because it must not be 
used on the same day; but if the wood will be used just after 
Sabbath is over, one might say that the use of the wood was 
allowed on the same day, and.that it was not used because it was 
prohibited to make a fire on Sabbath. 

R. Mathna said: If wood had fallen down from a tree directly 
into an oven on a festival day, one may add wood which had been 
prepared on the preceding day and burn it; but is not this han- 
dling a prohibited thing ? To this the answer is, because the bulk 
of the wood may be handled, the rest is ignored. But did he 
not ignore the prohibited wood intentionally? and a Mishna 
teaches that a prohibited thing must not be ignored on purpose. 
This, however, is only true of a biblical prohibition, but not of a rab- 
binical. But according to R. Ashi, who said that a thing which 
is prohibited only temporarily, cannot be ignored by any: means, 
what can be said? This is when the prohibited thing is preserved ; 
but here, when the wood is to be destroyed by fire, it is different. 





* As it will be explained further on, p. 8. 








- 


TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 4 


It was taught about the two festival days in exile: Rabh said 
if anything was born on the first day, it may be eaten on the 
morrow, but R. Assi says it must not. Said R. Zera: It seems to 
me that R. Assi is correct in his opinion, because in our time the 
_ time of the calendar is known to us, and nevertheless we hold in 
exile two days of festival (consequently we must hold all the 
ordinances which were ordained in that time). Abayi, however, 
said: It seems to me that Rabh is correct in his opinion, and our 
keeping of two days of festival in exile is merely because a message 
was sent to us from the West: Take heed of the customs of your 
ancestors, as it can happen that the government might forbid the 
keeping of festivals, and the exact date might be forgotten (after 
the government should retract the command). 

It was taught: Rabh and Samuel both said of the two festi- 
val days of New Year: Something born on the first day must 
not be used on the other. 

Rabha said: From the day of the ordinance of Rabban 
Johanan ben Zakkai,* an egg which is laid on the first day of the 
New Year festival may be eaten on the next day. Said Abayi to 
him: Did not Rabh and Samuel both say that it is not allowed ? 
Rejoined Rabha: I say to you that of Johanan b. Zakkai, and 
you mention Rabh and Samuel to me [says the Gemara: Do 
really Rabh and Samuel contradict a Mishna? Nay, it presents 
no difficulty: The ordinance of Johanan b. Zakkai was only for 
Palestine, but Rabh and Samuel speak for the exile]. 

R. Joseph, however, said even after the ordinance of Johanan 
b. Zakkai the prohibition of the egg remains in force, because the 
prohibition has been ordained by the vote of a majority of sages, 
and everything that has been ordained by a majority some time 
ago, must again be voted by a majority. Said Abayi to him: 
Did the sages in Johanan b. Zakkai’s time discuss about an egg? 
They discussed only about the witnesses of the new moon. 
When it was ordained that the witnesses should not be received 
on the 30th day (consequently two days were kept festival), the 
egg was prohibited, but after that, when it was again allowed to 
receive the witnesses the entire 30th day, in consequence holiday 
was kept only one day, and the egg could not be any longer pro- 
hibited. 

R. Ada and R. Shalman [both from the city of Khaluchith] 
said: The reason why the egg is prohibited even after the ordi- 





* For this ordinance of R. Johanan ben Zakkai see Tract Rosh Hashana, pp. 55-56. 


8 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


nance of R. Johanan b. Zakkai, is because the Temple will soon 
be rebuilt, and then one may say the last year, have we not eaten 
the second day of the festival the egg that was laid on the first 
day? Weill do the same now, and they will not know that 
the last year had two separate sanctitudes; and now, when the 
Temple is built, the two ener are as one long day of one and the 
same sacredness. 

If it is so, let the witnesses who come to testify about the new 
moon, also not be received? because soon will the Temple be 
rebuilt, and they will say: Did we not receive the last year the 
whole 30th day? The same will we do now? What comparison 
is there? Only the court (Beth Din) can receive the testimony 
of the witnesses, but eating an egg appertains to the common 
people. Rabha, however, said: That even after the ordinances 
of R. Johanan b. Zakkai the egg is prohibited for this reason: 
Would not R. Johanan b. Zakkai himself agree that if the wit- 
nesses were coming after the Min’ha prayer (in: the afternoon), 
both the 30th day and the morrow would be kept sacred? 
(Therefore we who are at a great distance from Palestine, and do 
not know when the witnesses appeared, must keep both days 
holy, and as of one kind of sacredness; in consequence an egg 
laid cannot be eaten on what is considered as the same day.) 

Rabha said again: The Halakha prevails according to Rabh 
in these three ordinances, both when he is lenient and rigorous 
(namely: 1. An egg laid on a Sabbath preceding festival day or 
on a festival day preceding a Sabbath may be eaten on the mor- 
row. 2. The same is the case with the two festival days in exile. 
3. But if it was laid on the first day of the two New Year’s — 
it must not be eaten). 

Rabha said: The preparing for the burial of a dead body on 
the first day of the exile festival must be done by Gentiles; but 
on the second day Israelites may do it, even if it is New Year. 
With a new-born thing, however, in the two days of New Year 
it is different (because these two days are considered as of one 
sacredness). The sages of Nehardai, however, said the case is 
the same with a new-born thing also. Said Mar Zutra: The law 
concerning burial on holidays refers to a case when the corpse had 
been lying some time and there is fear of corruption; but if it 
had just died it may lie until after the holidays and then be 
interred. R. Ashi, however, said: Even if it has just died it can - 
be buried on the same day, as the sages considered the second 
day of a festival a week-day in relation to a dead body, and it is 














TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 9 


allowed evento cut myrtle for it and prepare (a nice cloak. for him 
besides) the shrouds. 

Rabbina was sitting in the presence of R. Ashi on the first 
day of New Year, and noticed that he was downcast. He asked 
him: Why isthe Master downcast? R. Ashi answered: Because 
I have not made a combining of cookery (Erub Tabshilin; ze., 
the third day of the new year was a Sabbath, and it was_neces- 
sary to prepare on the second day of New Year for the Sabbath 
by making a “combining of cookery”). Said Rabbina to him: 
Let Master make it to-day. Did not Rabha say that: whoever 
forgot to make a combining on the eve of a festival, is permitted 
to make it on the first day? And R. Ashi rejoined: Rabha 
allowed it only on the exile festival day, but not on the two days 
of New Year. Said Rabbina again: Did not the sages of Neher- 
dai decide that the same is the case with New Year’s day? R. 
Mordecai answered to Rabbina: I have heard Master plainly de- 
clare that he did not agree with the sages of Neherdai (Master 
means R. Ashi). Therefore do not molest him with this question. 

The rabbis taught: A pullet which was born on a festival 
must not be eaten on the same day. R. Eliezer ben Jacob said 
even on a week-day it is not allowed to eat it on the same day, 
because its eyes are not yet open. We also learn in the follow- 
ing Boraitha: It is written [Lev. xi. 22]: “ All flying insects that 
walk upon four legs shall be an abomination to you.” By “all” 
it is meant to add the pullet whose eyes are not as yet open. 

R. Huna said in the name of Rabh: An egg becomes ripe as 
soon as it is laid. What does Rabh mean to teach us by this 
statement? Shall we assume that he meant to say that it be- 
comes ripe enough to be eaten with milk, which would not be the 
case if the egg were found in the entrails of a hen? Did not a 
Boraitha say: He who kills a hen and finds in it ripe eggs may 
eat them with milk? Shall we assume that Rabh means to teach 
us that when it is laid on a festival it may be eaten on that same 
day; but how if it were found in the entrails of a hen, would it 
not be allowed: to eat it on a festival? Did not a Boraitha say 
that if ripe eggs are found in the hen on a festival day, they may 
be eaten? If it be said that Rabh means to teach us what the 
Boraitha has added to the Mishna (this cannot be said either, 
because) we have learned in the Mishna, an egg laid on a festival 
the school of Shammai permit to be eaten, etc. We see there- 
fore that the above schools differed only about an egg laid 
already, but not about an egg found in the entrails of a hen; and 


10 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


it cannot be said of the school of Hillel that they prohibited this, 
for then the above Boraitha which allows this would not be in 
accordance with any of the schools. 

Rabh comesto teach us that only an egg which is laid is ripe 
to be put under a hen for hatching; but an egg which is found 
in the entrails of a hen, even if it were ripe, cannot be used for 
hatching, as it cannot breed pullets. 

And the difference is in matters of buying and selling (Z.e., 
if one buy eggs for hatching and he was given eggs which were 
found in the entrails of a hen, the seller must return the money 
to him). As it happened once, one came to the market and asked 
for new-laid eggs and he was given eggs which were found in a 
killed hen. When the case was brought before R. Amai he de- 
cided that the sale was null and void and the seller must return the 
money. Is that not self-evident? One may say that when the 
buyer asked for new-laid eggs he meant eggs for eating, and he 
who sold him the eggs which were found in the killed hen has 
only to return to the buyer the difference between the value of a 
new-laid egg and one found in a killed hen. Therefore he comes 
to teach us that it is not so, but that the whole sale is null and 
void and the seller must return the money. 

It happened, also, that one came to the market and asked for 
eggs of a hen which had paired with a cock, and he was given 
eggs of a hen which laid them by warming herself by scratching 
the earth; and when this case was also brought before R. Amai, 
he made the sale null and void for the same reason. 

And if you wish, we will explain (the above saying of R. 
Huna in the name of Rabh), that an egg is ripe as soon as it is 
laid, means, that as soon as the greater part of it is out of the 
body of the hen, it is considered ripe ; and this will be in accord- 
ance with R. Johanan, who said that an egg, of which the greater 
part was out on the eve of a festival, and it slipped back, and 
came out on the festival, it might be eaten the same day. And 
still others say, that Rabh means to teach that whem the egg is 
wholly out then it is ripe, but not otherwise, the reverse of the 
opinion of R. Johanan. 

The text says: When one has killed a hen and found ripe 
eggs in it, they may be eaten with milk. R. Jacob, however, 
said : When the egg is as yet covered with veins, it must not be 
eaten with milk. 

The rabbis taught: All the females which have communica+ 
tion with their males in the day-time only, give also birth in the 


adh, hahaa a gee 


TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). rf 


day-time only; and those which have communication in the 
night-time only, give also birth in the night-time only. Those, 
however, which have communication at all times, give birth also 
at all times. Those that have communication in the day-time 
only: eg.,a hen; and in the night only, ¢g.,a bat; and at all 
times, ¢.g., man and all animals similar to him. 

To what purpose did the Master say all this? This is neces- 
sary to the following Halakha: R. Mari the son of R. Cahana 
says: One who has searched a chicken-coop on the eve of a festi- 
val at twilight, and does not find any eggs, and on the morrow 
before sunrise does find one, it may be eaten the same day 
(as it could not have been laid during the night). But did he not 
search the day before? Say, then, he did not search thoroughly ; 
and even if he did search thoroughly, it is possible that at that 
time the greater part of the egg came out and slipped back again ; 
and this is in accordance with what is stated above in the name of 
R. Johanan. 

This is not so? For did not R. Jose b. Saul say in the name 
of Rabh: If one has searched a chicken-coop on the eve of a 
festival at twilight, and does not find any eggs in it, and on the 
morrow he finds one, it must not be used? He has reference to 
a hen which bears by scratching the earth (and such a hen may 
lay even at night). If it is so, say in the case of R. Mari also 
that the egg which was found in the morning was laid by such a 
hen. 

There is the case where a male was in the coop. Even then, 
can it not happen that a hen may scratch the earth? Said 
Rabina: It is certain that when there is a male, no hen scratches 
the earth for the purpose of bearing. And at what distance in 
the neighborhood must the cock be? Said R.Gamda in the 
name of Rabh: As far as she can hear his voice in the day-time. 

R. Mari, according to his decision, has decided a case (in which 
it was searched on the eve of a festival and nothing found in it, 
but an egg was found on the morrow, and there was no cock 
at) a distance of sixty houses. 

When there is a stream between, the hen does not cross it, 
but she crosses a bridge; neither does she cross overa plank. It 


- happened once that a hen crossed over a plank. 


“ The school of Shammai say that leaven the size of an olive,” 
etc. What is the reason of their teaching? They maintain if the 
same size would be for leaven and leavened bread, why did the 
Torah need mention leaven at all? Let it have been written 


12 THE BABYLONIAN .TALMUD. 


“ leavened bread,” and it would be known from an a fortiori conclu- 
sion that leaven the size of. an olive is prohibited (ze., as leavened 
bread, which is not as sour as leaven itself, one is culpable if he eats 
the size of an olive, so much the more, leaven itself the same 
size). Now, when the law mentioned leaven and leavened bread 
separately it is only to teach us that their sizes are different (leaven 
the size of an olive and leavened bread the size of a date). The 
school of Hillel,, however, maintain that both are needed, because 
if Zeaven only were mentioned, one might say that because leaven 
is very sour, it must not be used, but leavened bread, which is not 
so sour, one may eat; if. leavened bread only were mentioned, 
one could say that leavened bread which is fit to be eaten is pro- 
hibited, but leaven. itself. which is not fit. for eating one is not 
culpable if he eats; therefore leaven is also mentioned. 

We have learned also in a Boraitha: It is written [Ex. xiii. 7]: 
“ And there shall not. be seen with thee any unleavened. bread, 
neither shall there be seen with thee any leaven in all thy boun- 
daries.” This is the point of difference between the school of 
Shammai and the school of Hillel: The first says, leaven the size 
of an olive and leavened bread the size of a date, and according 
to the latter, both are of the size of an olive.. 

“ When a person has killed,’ etc.. If one has killed already ; 
but may he not commence.it? Said Rabha: The Mishna meant 
to say that if a person wishes to slaughter an animal at a festival 
and comes to ask how he shall do it, the school of Shammai say 
he must be told that. he may slaughter first, dig to get loose 
earth, and then cover; but the school of Hillel say he must 
be forbidden to slaughter unless he has loose earth prepared 
from the preceding day. R. Joseph, however, said, that. accord- 
ing to the school of Shammai he must. be told to dig first, 
slaughter, and then, cover... Said Abayi to R. Joseph: Shall we 
assume that the Master and Rabha differ about what R. Zera 
said in. the name of Rabh, as follows: Whoever slaughters a wild 
animal or fowl, must have loose earth beneath, to soak the. blood, 
and some on the top, to cover with, as it is written [ Lev. xvii. 13]: 
“ Then shall he pour out the blood thereof, and cover.it up with 
(or 22) earth” ?* It is not said “to: place earth on it,” but to 
“ cover it ¢z earth.” From this we infer that there must be earth 
underneath and earth en the.top.. Now, the Master agrees with 
R. Zera (and therefore he must. be told to dig first), but. Rabha 





* The Hebrew term is 45y3, which:signifies both 7a and with, 








TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 13 


does not agree with R. Zera (therefore in his opinion he must be 
told to slaughter first and dig after). Rejoined R. Joseph: We 
both agree with the dictum of R. Zera, and we differ on another 
point, namely, Rabha holds if there is already earth underneath, 
he may slaughter, but he must not dig first, for it may happen 
that he should afterwards reconsider the matter and not slaughter 
at all (then he will have dug for nothing), but I hold it is better 
to permit him to dig first, else it may be that he would not 
slaughter at all, and not enjoy the festival as becomes it. 

“ Both colleges agree,’ etc. R. Zriqa said in the name of R. 
Jehudah: The case is when one had a spade sticking in the 
ground from the preceding day. But he pounds the earth? 
(reduces the earth to powder). Said R. Hyya bar Ashi in the 
name of Rabh: It is.meant that the spade was already in pow- 
dered earth. 

“As ihe ashes from the. hearth,” etc.. Where are the ashes 
mentioned? Said Rabha: The Mishna means to say, that the 
ashes from the hearth may be considered as always prepared. 
Said R. Jehudah in the name of Rabh: The case is when the 
hearth had been heated on the preceding day, but when the fire 
was made on the festival, it is not so. \_ When the ashes, however, 
are hot enough for roasting an egg, they are considered as pre- 
pared... We have learned the same in.a Boraitha, with the addi- 
tion, that if one has brought loose earth for his garden or fora 
ruin, he may cover the blood with it. 

R. Jehudah said again: One may bring a basketful of earth, 
and do with it all that he needs. Lectured Mar Zutra in the 
name of Mar Zutra the great: .The case is. when he has separated 
a corner for it. 

An objection was raised: We have learned elsewhere: A 
kui* must not be slaughtered on a festival, and when it is, its 
blood must not be covered. Now, if it be so, let him cover it as 
R. Jehudah said above? What question is it—he could also 
cover it with the ashes of the hearth, or with a spade in powdered 
earth? We must say, then, that they were not available; and 
it is the same with the basketful of earth mentioned above, that 
he has not any. If such is the case, why a kui, of which it is 
doubtful whether his blood must be covered or not? Even an 
animal of which it is certain that his blood must be covered, the 
same is the case? The Mishna means to say, that not only an 





* Cross between a he-goat and a hind. 


14 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


animal of which it is certain that his blood must be covered must 
not be slaughtered, unless he has prepared a covering; but even 
an animal which is doubtful, lest one say that because of the 
enjoyment of the festival it shall be slaughtered without covering, 
it comes to teach us that he must not. But did not the latter 
part of the Mishna state, that if it was slaughtcred the blood 
must not be covered, from which we must infer that the first part 
of the Mishna means, even when he has a prepared covering 
for it ? 

Therefore said Rabha: The ashes of the hearth are only con- 
sidered to be prepared when the animal is of a species whose blood 
must be certainly covered ; but when the animal is of a kind about 
the covering of whose blood there is a doubt, it is not so (z.2., the 
ashes must not be handled for this purpose, as they are Muktzah). 
And this is in accordance with his theory elsewhere, that if one 
has brought earth to cover with it dung, he may cover with it the 
blood of a fowl, but not vice versa. The sages of Neharbelai, 
however, said that even if he has brought the earth for the pur- 
pose of covering with it the blood of a fowl, he may cover with it 
dung also. In the West R. Joseph bar Hama, and according to 
others Rabha the son of R. Joseph bar Hama, and R. Zera 
differed on this point. According to one a kui (about which it 
is doubted whether it is a wild or domestic animal) is regarded 
as dung, and according to the other it is not so (but who enter- 
tained either of these two opinions it was not known). Now, 
from the above teaching of Rabha, who said that earth prepared 
for a fowl must not be used for dung, we infer that Rabha is the 
one in whose opinion a kui is regarded as dung. 

Rami the son of R. Jebha, however, said that the reason that 
we do not cover a kui on a festival is as a precautionary measure, 
lest one think the use of its tallow permissible. Ifso, let it not 
be covered even on a week-day? Nay, on a week-day one (who 
sees the blood covered) may think it is done for the purpose of 
cleaning the yard. But what shall be the reply to him who comes 
to ask (whether he should cover the blood)? Therefore we must 
say, that the reason is this: On a week-day, when it is doubtful, 
the sages decree that nevertheless he should trouble himself to 
cover it, but on a festival day the sages do not wish to put him 
to perhaps unnecessary work. 

R. Zera taught: Not the blood of a kui only is it prohibited 
to cover on a festival day, but even when a slaughtered domestic 
animal’s and fowl’s blood were mixed together, it must not be 


ea ome 7 


a 


a) 7 ee, 
“poe ie aad 
a a al ms i m 


ae < 


‘TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 5 


covered cither. Said R. Jose bar Jasiniah: The case is when one 
cannot cover the whole blood with one (shovelful) stroke of the 
spade, but if he can, he must cover it. Is this not self-evident? 
One might say that we should prohibit this as a precautionary 
measure to prevent him from making two strokes. Therefore he 
comes to teach us that such precautionary measures are not nec- 
essary. Rabha said: If one has slaughtered a fowl on the eve of 
a festival, the blood must not be covered on the festival; but if he 
kneaded dough on the eve of a festival, he must separate the 
“first dough ”’ on the festival. The father of Samuel, however, 
said that even this is prohibited. 

MISHNA: Beth Shammai say: It is prohibited to remove a 
ladder from one dove-cote to another; it may, however, be inclined 
from one opening to another (of the same dove-cote). But Beth 
Hillel allow both. 

GEMARA: R. Hanan bar Ammi said: Both schools differ 
only when it is done in public ground: According to Beth Sham- 
mai one who will see him carrying a ladder may think he is going 
to repair his roof; but Beth Hillel do not care for that, for they 
say the dove-cote will show the man’s purpose of carrying the 
ladder. But if this is done in private ground (where there is no 
person to see his act), all agree that this is permissible. But is it 
so? Did not R. Jehudah say in the name of Rabh, that all which 
is prohibited on account of its liability to be seen (and misjudged) 
remains so even in the greatest privacy? In this the Tanaim dif- 
fer (Sabbath, pp. 336, 337). 

Our Mishna does not accord with the Tana of the following 
Boraitha: R. Simeon b. Elazar said both schools agree that the 
ladder may be carried from one dove-cote to another; the point 
on which they differ is whether the ladder may be carried back. 
The school of Shammai prohibit it, and the school of Hillel 
allow even this. Said R. Jehudah: The Mishna refers only to a 
ladder used for a dove-cote, but a ladder to an attic all agree is 
prohibited. R. Dosa said he may incline it from one window to 
another. Anonymous teachers say in the name of R. Dosa, that 
he may also trail the ladder (making it change its position by 
turning it about). 

The children of R. Hyya were going out into the villages. 
When they came back their father asked them, was no question 
asked of you, which you have decided? and they answered that 
they were asked whether a ladder of an attic may be inclined on 
a festival, and they allowed it. And he said to them: Go, pro- 


16 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


hibit what you have permitted. (Said the Gemara): “The chil- 
dren of R. Hyya thought that R. Dosa had allowed what. R. 
Jehudah prohibited, and it was not so; he only allowed what the 
first Tana did not prohibit; z¢., a ladder to a dove-cote, allowed 
by the first Tana even to be carried, R. Dosa permits only to 
incline. 

“It may, however, be inclined from one opening,” etc:, We 
learn also in another Mishna farther on: The shutters (of shops) 
must not be removed on a festival, so is the decree of Beth 
Shammai; but according to Beth Hillel they may be even re- 
turned to their places. From this we see that concerning the 
enjoyment of the festival, the school.of Shammai are rigorous, 
and the school of Hillel are lenient. Is not this in contradiction 
to the first Mishna of this chapter, where we see the opposite? It 
would be (intelligible) if we explain the first Mishna’s meaning 
that it speaks of a spade stuck in the ground before (then Beth 
Shammai would not be more rigorous). But what can be said of 
the self-contradiction of Beth Hillel? Said R. Johanan: Change 
the names of the authorities (assume the prohibitions to be made 
by Beth Shammai and the permissions by Beth Hillel). Says 
the Gemara: Perhaps it is not so, because we can explain the 
lenience of Beth Hillel in the case of the shutters by the fact 
that the law of building cannot be applied to vessels (according 
to their theory); but in the first Mishna, where such a reason 
cannot be found, they did not permit. 

MISHNA: Beth Shammai say : It is unlawful to remove the 
birds from their places, unless they have been handled defore the 
festival; but Beth Hillel say: It is unnecessary to do more than 
stand’ on the eve of the festival before the dove-cote and say : 
“ This and this bird will I take for the festival.” 

GEMARA: Said R. Hanan bar Ammi: They differ only 
about the first brood of pigeons. Beth Shammai hold that if one 
will not handle it before the festival, he may change his mind 
(and spare it when he comes to take it on the festival, and will 
take others instead of them, but if he has handled it on the 
previous day, we are sure that he will not change his mind). 
Beth Hillel, however, do not entertain this fear. But as for 
the second brood, all agree that it is enough if he says before 
the festival: “I will take this and this.” 

According to Beth Hillel, why is it needed one should men- 
tion the individual bird? Would it not suffice to refer to the 
whole dove-cote (and say, “from this dove-cote I will take 


TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 17 


more”)? Should we assume that the school of Hillel do not 
hold the theory of premeditated choice (see Vol. III., p. 80)? 
But this would not be right, as from the Mishna (Oholath, VIL., 
3), we know that the school of Hillel hold this theory. Said 
Rabha: It is needed for the reason that if he will not point 
out the individual, he may handle the next day all birds of 
the dove-cote except the one he chooses (if any) unnecessarily. 
But did not Beth Hillel say it is‘enough if he says: “I will 
take this: and this bird,’ and yet he may reject it when he 
comes. to take it for slaughtering? Nay, this is on the eve 
of a festival, if he has chosen some of them, be they lean or fat, 
he will not exchange them for others; but if he did not so on the 
eve, and he comes to choose them on the festival itself, it may be 
that he will-be compelled to handle many until he finds one that 
is fit; or it may happen he finds none fit, and he will handle them 
for no purpose, and he will be deprived of the enjoyment of the 
festival. 

‘MISHNA: If a person who had prepared for a festival black 
pigeons finds white ones, or having prepared white pigeons, 
should find black ones; or two. birds,‘and he find three, they 
must not be used. If three birds had been prepared and two 
only are found, they may be used; -but if they had been: pre- 
pared within the nest,.and are found: before the nest, they must 
not be used unless there were no other birds but these in the 
dove-cote. 

GEMARA: Is not this ‘self-evident? Said Rabba: The 
Mishna refers to a case when one had prepared both white and 
black, and: on the morrow, when he comes to take them, he finds 
they have changed places. One might say that the pigeons are 
all the same, but they have changed places, hence the Mishna 
comes to teach us that it is not customary for the birds to change 
places, and therefore we must say that all the old ones are gone, 
and those which are found are other pigeons. Shall we suppose 
that this Mishna is in support of the decree of R. Hanina, who 
said that when one has to decide according to the majority of cases 
similar to one at hand, or according to the intrinsic probability, one 
should decide according to the former? (As our Mishna decided 
that they are other pigeons, and that is because in the majority 
of cases pigeons do not change places, we see that the Mishna 
decides according to majority and not probability.) Nay, the 
case of the Mishna can be explained as Abayi says farther on, 


that it means not in the nest itself, but on the board before the 
: : 


18 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


nest, where strange pigeons also come and roost (and so decides 
not according to majority, but probability). 

“ Or two birds, and he finds three,” etc. Why is it so? For 
all reasons: Either all are strange pigeons, or at least one. 

“Tf three birds,” etc. Why so? Because two are the same, 
though one is gone. Shall we assume our Mishna is only accord- 
ing to Rabbi, and not the sages of the following Boraitha? If 
one had left at a certain place one hundred zuz of second tithe, 
and he found afterwards two hundred zuz, the ordinary and the 
second tithe money are mixed together. Such is the decree of 
Rabbi. But the sages said that the whole is considered as or- 
dinary money (considering the first hundred as having been stolen, 
and this to be other money). But if he left two hundred zuz, 
and found only one hundred, it is considered that one hundred 
has been stolen, and the other hundred remains. So is the de- 
cree of Rabbi. But the sages said that the remainder becomes 
ordinary. Hence we see that the case of the doves in our Mishna 
is according to Rabbi? Nay, the Mishna can be explained even 
in accordance with the sages, for it was taught in addition to this 
Boraitha, that R. Johanan and R. Elazar both said that in the 
case of pigeons the law is different because pigeons have the 
habit of leaving their nest for short whiles. 

“ But if they had been prepared in the nest,” etc. Shall we say 
this part of the Mishna is in support of the above decree of R. 
Hanina? Here it can also be explained as the former according 
to Abayi (that the board before the nest is meant where strange 
pigeons come to roost). Rabha, however, said: The Mishna re- 
fers to a case where there were two nests, one on the top of the 
other; and not only is one prohibited to use pigeons found be- 
fore the lower nest, when he had prepared same in the lower, and 
found both nests empty, because it is considered that from only 
the lower nest they are gone, and those from the upper nest 
have come down; but if he had prepared them in the upper one, 
and found them in front of it, while both nests are empty, the 
case is the same; though usually pigeons do not go up, it is con- 
sidered that the upper pigeons are gone, and those of the lower 
nest came up in front of the upper nest. 

“ Unless there were no other birds,” etc. How was the case? 
Shall we say flying pigeons are meant? Then it may be assumed 
that those that had been in the nest had flown away, and these 
are strangers. And if pigeons too young for flying are meant, 
then if there is a nest within fifty ells, we may say that those 


TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 19 


that were here bounded away, and these are strangers; but if no 
strange nest is near, is it not self-evident that they are the same 
and may be used, as Mar Uqba bar Hamma said: A pigeon that 
cannot fly yet is not able to bound away more than fifty ells? 
Nay, it can be explained thus: There is a nest within fifty ells, 
but it is situated in a corner so that the pigeons could not see it. 
They are in their own nest, and the Mishna comes to teach us, 
that the fear of their bounding away is only when there is 
another nest within fifty ells, which is visible to them when they 
are in their own nest; but if not visible, they do not bound away 
at all. 

MISHNA: Beth Shammai say: The (large wooden) pestle 
may not be moved for the purpose of using it as a block to cut 
meat upon; but Beth Hillel allow it. Beth Shammai teach: It 
is unlawful to lay down a skin to be trodden on (as a preparation 
for its being tanned) or to raise it from the ground unless the 
(minimum) quantity of meat of the size of an olive be thereon; 
Beth Hillel, however, allow it. 

GEMARA: We have learned in a Boraitha (an addition to 
this Mishna) that all agree that if one has already cut meat on 
this pestle, it may not be handled more (because the occasion on 
which it was necessary for the festival is over). 

Said Abayi: Even if the pestle mentioned in the Mishna was 
a new one, made only for breaking bones, the case is the same; 
(and Abayi found this necessary to explain) lest one say, that 
because it is a new one, it shall be feared that he will change 
his mind and will not use it for this purpose, and so it will 
be handled unnecessarily, and therefore the Mishna comes to 
teach us that this fear is not entertained. From this we see that 
Beth Shammai have not such fear. But did we not learn in a 
Boraitha: Beth Shammai said the slaughterer and the knife must 
not be brought to the animal, nor, vice versa, it to them (for fear 
of his changing his mind, and not slaughtering at all, and being 
troubled for nothing)? And the same is the case with spices 
and the pestle, which must not be carried to the mortar, nor 
vice versa. But Beth Hillel allow both (hence we see that the 
school of Shammai fear his changing his mind). What comparison 
is it? Hecan reject on second consideration an animal because 
he wants a fatter one, or spices because he resolves to have a 
dish without spices, but in this case the animal is already 
slaughtered and the meat is for cooking; hence he must cut 
it and prepare it for eating. 


20 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


“ Beth Shammat teach it is unlawful to lay down a skin,” ete. 
We have learned ina Boraitha: Both schools agree that meat. for 
roasting may be salted on the skin. Said Abayi: Only for 
roasting is it permitted ‘to salt meat on it, but not for boiling 
(because for roasting much salt is not necessary, but for boiling 
more is needed). Is not this self-evident? It is plainly stated, 
“for roasting.” Abayi comes to teach us that even for roasting, 
if more salt is needed than ordinarily, it is not permitted. 

The rabbis taught: Tallow must-not be salted and must: not 
be turned over: In thename of R. Joshuah, however, it was said 
that one may spread it out upon nails for being aired. Said R. 
Mathna: The Halakha does not prevail according to R. Joshuah ; 
but wherein differs this case from the case of the skin in our 
Mishna? (The cases are not identical.) When one sees him spread- 
ing out the skin, he may think because it is fit for sitting on, it is 
spread out for such purposes ; but when one will be allowed to salt 
the tallow, he may say : For what purpose have the sages allowed 
it? Only that it shall not become spoiled. Then what is the 
difference between spreading and salting, and he will also salt it ? 

R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel said: One may salt several 
pieces of meat at one time, though only one: of them is needed. 
R. Adda bar A’hbah had recourse to ingenuity, and used to salt 
meat for a festival meal (salting one piece with the pretext that 
he will use it, and then rejecting it, and choosing another, and 
so on). 

MISHNA: The shutters of ‘stalls must not be removed on a 
festival according to Beth Shammai; but Beth Hillel allow even 
to replace them. 

GEMARA: What kind of shutters is meant ? Said Ula: The 
shutters of movable stalls. He said again: There are. three 
things of which the finishing was allowed (though not -essential 
for the festival), for the reason of the beginning (which was 
necessary ; 7.¢., if it would not have been allowed to finish them, 
they would not have been begun). They are: The skin for the 
tanner, the shutters of the shops,* and the replacing of a plaster 
(on the priest’s hand +) in the Temple. And Rhaba said in the 





* It means that he would not slaughter the animal at all if he would not be sure 
that the skin would not be spoiled ; and so he would not open the shop to take out 
what was necessary for the festival, if he would not be allowed to shut it again, and 
the festival would be without enjoyment. 

+ As the priest is not permitted to do his work of sacrificing when there is some- 
thing between (Hatzitzah, intervention) his hand and the victim. 





TRACT BETZAH (YOM. TOB). 21 


name of Rabh Jehudah the Babylonian Amora: * The same is the 
case when one opens a barrel or begins to knead dough on the 
festival (he may stop up the barrel, or finish the kneading, be- 
cause he would not begin if he were not permitted to finish, and 
his enjoyment of the festival would not be complete), and this 
is according to Rabbi Jehudah the Tana, who said (in Hagigah, 
p. 52), he shall finish it. 

Our Mishna is not in accordance with the Tana of the follow- 
ing Boraitha: R. Simeon b. Elazar said: The schools both of 
Shammai and Hillel agree that the shutters may be removed on 
the festival; they differ only about the replacing of them. Beth 
Shammai do not permit this, and Beth Hillel allow even this. 
But this is in case there are hinges, but if there is none all agree 
it is permitted. But have we not learned in another Boraitha 
the contrary of this? Said Abayi: It can be explained so: If 
the hinges are at the sides of the shutters, all agree it is pro- 
hibited ;+ if there are no hinges at all, all agree it is permissible. 
They differ only on this point when the hinges are inthe middle: 
Beth Shammai prohibit it as a precautionary measure, lest one 
think it permissible also even when they are at the sides, and 
Beth Hillel think such a precautionary measure is not to be taken. 

MISHNA: A child, a Lulab (a branch: of a date-tree), holy 
scrolls, must not be carried in public ground according to Beth 
Shammai; but Beth Hillel allow it... 

GEMARA: In the presence of R. Itz’hak bar Abdimi one 
Tana taught: as follows: If one slaughters a voluntary offering 
on a festival, he is liable to the penalty of stripes.. Said R. 
Itz’ hak to him: According to whom is your teaching? That is 
only according to Beth Shammai, who do not hold the theory 
that because itis permitted to carry things for the purposes of 
the festival, it is permissible to carry other things, even when 
they are not necessary for the purposes of the festival; but ac- 
cording to Beth Hillel, who hold this theory, we can say, because 
slaughtcring for the festival is permitted, slaughtering for other 





* Rashi says: To some people it is doubtful if it was in the name of .R, Jehudah 
the second, or R. Jehudah the disciple of Samuel ; but I say, he added, that Rhaba, 
who was from Pumbeditha, had never seen R. Jehudah the second, as we do not find 
that he, sometime in his life, ever went to Palestine. Moreover, it is said elsewhere 
that no one was so particular in his study as Rhaba of Pumbeditha, and we must 
assume that Rhaba was so particular that he would not leave in his words any doubt 
about the man in whose name he said it; and if it was Jehudah the second, he would 
have certainly mentioned it. 

+ As when the hinges are at the sides, it is very difficult to remove and replace. 


22 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


purposes is also permitted, consequently he is not liable to stripes. 
R. Johanan’s opinion is also that Beth Shammai and Beth Hillel 
differ about the acceptation of the above theory. 

Because a disciple has taught in the presence of R. Johanan 
thus: If one cooks the sinew which shrank [Gen. xxxii. 33] in 
milk on a festival, and eats it, he is liable to five times stripes: 
once for cooking the sinew, once for eating it, once for cooking 
meat in milk, once for eating meat with milk, and once for kin- 
dling a fire on the festival. And R. Johanan said to him: Go 
with thy teaching out of the college, because for kindling a fire 
and cooking on the festival he is not liable for stripes, according 
to the teaching of the Mishna; and even if you would find a 
Mishna which is in accordance with your teaching, it could be 
only according to the school of Shammai, who deny the theory 
that, because it is permitted to kindle a fire and to cook for the 
purposes of the festival, it is permissible also for other purposes; 
then, according to the school of Hillel, who agree with this theory, 
no Mishna could teach so. Now then, when kindling and cook- 
ing are permitted on the festival, you must remove the stripes 
for cooking and kindling out of the whole case. 

MISHNA: It is unlawful, according to Beth Shammai, to 
carry to the priest on a festival the first dough (Halah) or other 
gifts, whether they had been set apart for that purpose on that 
day or on the preceding day. Beth Hillel, however, allow this. 
Said Beth Shammai: Let us say to them: Is there not an 
analogy of expression in both? First dough and other priestly 
dues are called gifts to the priest (Matanoth); and heave-offering 
(Terumah) is also called gifts to the priest. Now, as the last is 
prohibited, the same must be the case with the first? Rejoined 
Beth Hillel: Nay, how can the gifts be compared to heave-offer- 
ing? The last one is not allowed to be set apart on the festival, 
whereas other gifts may. 

GEMARA: At the first glance, the teaching of the Mishna, 
“whether it had been set apart on the same day,” would seem to 
mean that it was slaughtered and set apart on the same day, and 
the expression, “the preceding day,” would seem to mean that it 
was slaughtered also on that day. If it is so, however, according 
to whose opinion would the Mishna be? Not according to R. 
Jose, not according to R. Jehudah, but according to the anony- 
mous teachers. As we have learned in the following Boraitha : 
R. Jehudah said: Beth Shammai and Beth Hillel do not differ 
about the gifts that were set apart on the eve of a festival, 








TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 23 


whether they might be brought together with the gifts set apart 
and slaughtered on the festival. What they differ in is only 
whether those set apart on the eve of the festival might be brought 
to the priest separately. Beth Shammai do not allow this, and 
Beth Hillel permit it. R. Jose, however, said that the above schools 
do not differ about gifts at all, but only about the heave-offering ; 
but an anonymous teacher said that they never differ about the 
heave-offering, which is prohibited according to all, but only 
about other gifts. Hence our Mishnais in accordance with the 
anonymous teachers. Said Rabha: Did the Mishna teach that 
they were set apart and slaughtered on the same day? They 
were set apart on that day, but may have been slaughtered on the 
previous day. Then the Mishna will be according to R. Jehudah 
only, but not according to the anonymous teachers? Nay, we 
may say it is in accordance with the anonymous teachers also, but 
the point on which they differ would be the gift that had been 
slaughtered on a preceding day. Ifit isso, the anonymous teachers 
would say the same as R. Jehudah? Nay, there is a difference 
about the adding of the gifts set apart on the preceding day to 
those set apart on the festival itself (according to R. Jehudah it 
may be done, and according to the anonymous teachers it may 
not). Said R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel: The Halakha 
prevails according to R. Jose. 

R. Tubbi the son of R. Nehemiah possessed one pitcher of 
wine of heave-offering on a festival, and’ he came to R. Joseph 
and asked him: Can I give it away to the priest to-day? And 
the answer was, that R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel declared 
the Halakha prevails according to R. Jose (who permits). 

The host of an inn where Rabha bar R. Hanan was staying, 
possessed bundles of mustard stalks, and he asked his guest: 
May I thrash it and eat it ona festival? And he did not know 
the law. And he came before Rabha, who told him: We have 
learned in a Tosephta, one may pluck ears or crush pea-pods to 
get out the grains or peas on a festival. Abayi objects: We have 
learned in a Boraitha: Whoso has plucked ears on the eve of 
Sabbath, he may blow away chaff on the Sabbath from one hand 
into another, and eat, but not sieve. If he has done it on the eve 
of a festival, he may sieve it on the next day in a small but not a 
large sieve (that it may not be thought he does it for*the next 
day). Hence it seems from this that to do it on the festival 
itself is not allowed. Rabha answered: The same would be the 
case on the festival itself. But as in the first part it is said: On 


24 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


the eve of Sabbath, so in the last part he speaks of the eve of the 
festival. (Said Abayi again :) If it is so, then we find a case in 
which it is allowed to set apart heave-offering on a festival (as 
it is usually taken from a quantity of grains, not ears); and here, 
when he thrashes the ears for the purpose of eating the grain, you 
allow him to separate the heave-offering of it, for otherwise he 
is not allowed to eat, and in our Mishna it is plainly stated that 
the heave-offering is not allowed to be set apart on the festival. 
Rabha answered: It presents:no difficulty. Elsewhere it is said, 
according to. Rabbi’s opinion: heave-offering may be separated on 
the festival, and only R. Jose bar Jehudah opposed him, and:our 
Mishna is in accordance with the latter. 

How shall one pluck (a change from: the deGinacys week-day 
manner there must be)? -Abayi in the name of R. Jose said: He 
shall pluck it with the thumb and the index-finger. But R. Ivya 
upon the same authority said: The thumb and the two fingers 
next to it. Rabha, however,:said.: As soon as he does it ina 
peculiar manner, the number of fingers he employs is a matter of 
no great consequence. 

How shall one blow? R. Adda bar A’hba ‘said in the name 
of Rabh: He shall: blow only off his fingers (but not the palms). 
But in Palestine they ridiculed this, saying that, provided he does 
it in a peculiar manner, he may employ his palms also. There- 
fore R. Elazar said : He may blow it off one hand with his whole 
might (but must not use the other). ° 7 

MISHNA: Spices: may © be péunieli on a festival with a 
wooden pestle only, and salt with an earthenware jug, or with a 
large wooden spoon, according to Beth Shammai. But Beth 
Hillel say: Spices may be, as usual, pounded with a stone pestle, 
and salt with a wooden spoon. 

GEMARA: From this we see that all agree that salt must be 
pounded in a different manner. Why? R. HunaandR. Hisda: 
One said, because all the dishes must have salt, but not: all — 
the dishes must have spices; and the other said, all the spices 
lose their fragrance, but not salt. What is the difference between 
the two? If one knows on the eve of.a festival what dish ‘he will 
prepare.,on the morrow? According to the former it needs a 
peculiarity (because he could have prepared it on the eve); and 
according to the latter: it needs not, because had he prepared it 
on the eve the spices would lose their fragrance. 

R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel, however; said: All that is 
pounded may be pounded on a festival as on week-days, even salt. 





TRACT BETZAH (YOM. TOB). 25 


Did we: not say above, that salt must be pounded differently ? 
He holds with the Tana of the following Boraitha: R. Meir said: 
Both schools of Shammai and Hillel never differ about the point 
that all. things may be pounded on a festival as on week-days, 
and salt when it is among them: what they differ about is, 
whether it may be done so when it is separate. _ According 
to Beth Shammai it must be pounded with an earthenware jug 
or a large wooden spoon; and. only in a quantity needed for 
roasting, but not for stewing into a pot; but Beth Hillel allow 
any quantity. 

R. A’ha Bardla said to his'son: If it shall happen. that you 
will. have to pound something on a festival, you should incline 
your mortar, and then pound (z.e., he shall make some change in 
the manner of pounding). R. Shesheth heard on a festival the 
sound of pounding in a mortar, and he said: It is.surely not in 
my house. -Why was he sure? Perhaps the mortar was inclined ? 
Because he could infer from the sound that this was not so. . Per- 


‘haps they were pounding spices? Then the sound would have 


been different. 

. The rabbis taught: Ptzsana* must not be made on a festival, 
for nothing may be pounded. But a small quantity may be 
pounded in a small mortar. 

It once happened that R. Papa was the guest of Mar Samuel, 
and Prisana was offered: him, but he did not partake of it. Why? 
Perhaps it had been done in a small mortar? He did not choose 
to trust his host’s servants, because they were disobedient. 

MISHNA:-When one picks pulse on a festival, he may, 
according to Beth Shammai, only pick out. the eatable part and 
eat it; but according to Beth Hillel he may pick it as usual in 
his lap, in a basket with holes, or in a large dish, but not on a 
large table, or through a small or large sieve. Rabban Gamaliel 
says: It is also lawful to pour water thereon, and remove the part 
not fit to eat, by hand. 

GEMARA: We learn in a Boraitha: Said R. Gamaliel: The 
Mishna refers to a case when there was more of the eatable part 
than of the part unfit for eating; but if the opposite was the case, 
then all agree that he may take out only the eatable part and 
leave the rest. Is there any one who is allowed to do as usually 
even when the unfit part was larger than the rest? R. Gamaliel 
meant to say, that even when the quantity of the unfit part was 





* Latin for a dish of pounded barley. 


26 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


small, but to pick it out would be more trouble than to pick 
out the eatable part, all agree that he shall do what gives less 
trouble. 

“ Rabban Gamaliel said,” etc. We have learned in a Borai- 
tha: R. Elazar bar Zadok said: Such was the custom in the 
house of Rabban Gamaliel: They usually brought a pail full of 
lentils and poured water on it, and the eatable part settled 
down, while the unfit part remained floating; but another Borai- 
tha states the contrary (that the unfit part settles down, etc.)? 
It presents no difficulty: the straw floats above, but if there is 
any dust or other such matter, it sinks. 

MISHNA: It is unlawful for one to send to another as a 
present on the festival anything but eatables, according to Beth 
Shammai. Beth Hillel, however, permit to send even cattle, 
game, and poultry, either slaughtered or alive; also presents of 
wine, oil, fine flour, and pulse, but not grain. R. Simeon allows 
also to send grain. 

GEMARA: R. Je’hiel taught: This is permissible only when 
he sends it by a few persons, but not by a whole line of men. 
A Boraitha taught that a line is not constituted by less than 
three men. 

“ R. Simeon,” etc. A Boraitha taught: R. Simeon permits 
to send grain; ¢.g., wheat, to make of it a dish which the inhabi- 
tants of Lydia used to make (by grinding the grains of wheat) ; 
barley, to give it to cattle; and lentils, to make of them a 
dish. 

MISHNA: It is also permitted to send clothes, sewed or not, 
even of “ Kelayim,” in case they can be used on the festival, but 
not sandals with iron nails or unfinished shoes. R. Jehudah 
says: White shoes may not be sent either, because an artificer is 
required to make them fit for use. This is the general rule: 
Whatever can be used on the festival, may be sent as a present 
thereon. 

GEMARA:: It is right that sewed clothes should be permitted 
on a festival, because they can be used, and clothes not sewed 
may also be used for covering; but how can Kelayim be used? 
The Mishna meant to say rough clothes which can be used for 
sitting upon, and this is according to R. Huna the son of R. 
Joshuah, who said that felt of the city of Narash (which was 
rough) might be worn even if in it is Kelayim (linen and wool 
mixed together). 

“ But not sandals,’ etc. What is the reason? Because once 











TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 27 


an accident occurred.* Said Abayi: Sandals with iron nails 
must not be worn, because an accident happened on account of 
them, but they may be handled; and this we infer from our 
Mishna, which says that they shall not be sent, and if it were dis- 
allowed to handle them, it would be self-evident that they could 
not be sent. 

“ Or unfinished shoes.” 1s it not self-evident? The Mishna 
means to say that even if there were nails in them already (so 
that they could be put on), yet being unfinished, they might not 
be sent. 

“ R. Jehudah says,” etc. We have learned in a Boraitha: R. 
Jehudah permits to send black shoes, but not white, because lime 
is needed to make them white; and R. Jose prohibits black shoes, 
because they must be polished. They do not disagree, however. 
Both speak of the customs in their respective places. In the 
place of one Master the skin of the shoes had the inner side turned 
out, and therefore it had to be made white; while in the other 
the opposite was the case, and polishing was needed. 

“ This is the general rule,” etc. KR. Shesheth permitted to his 
disciples to send phylacteries on a festival. Said Abayito him: 
Did not we learn in our Mishna, only a thing which can be used 
on the festival may be sent (and phylacteries are not used then)? 
And he answered: The Mishna meant to say things fit to be 
used on a week-day may be sent on a festival. Said Abayi: 
When the phylacteries are spoken of we would like to say some- 
thing: If one was on the road on the eve of Sabbath or of a fes- 
tival, and the Tefilin were on his head and the sun set, he may 
lay his hand on the Tefilin and thus come to his home. The same 
is the case when he was sitting in the house of learning and the 
Tefilin were on his head, he may lay his hand on them until he 
comes home. 





* See Tract Sabbath, p. 116, 


—epperwe Te. ey 


CHAPTER Il. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE COMBINING OF COOKERY oN A FESTI- 
VAL PRECEDING A SABBATH. 


MISHNA: When the festival falls on Friday, it is unlawful 
to prepare thereon, on purpose, any food for the Sabbath, but for 
the festival alone, and whatever remains may be used for the 
Sabbath; and one may prepare on the eve of the festival one 
dish for the Sabbath especially, and then he may continue cook- 
ing on the festival for the Sabbath. Beth Shammai, however, Say * 
Two dishes are necessary - Beth Hillel say: One is sufficient. 
Both, however, agree that fish and egg uPO? it may be considered 
as two dishes. If the dish thus prepared has been eaten oF lost, 
nothing more may be cooked in addition to it; but if any small 
portion whatever is left, 1t suffices. 

GEMARA: Whence is this deduced ?- Said Samuel; It is 
written [Ex. x*- Sh .225" Remember the Sabbath day to keep it 
holy”; from which we infer that we should remember it when 
we are liable to forget it (¢.¢., when it is holiday already, one can 
forget it). Our Tana, however, infers this from the following 
passage fibid. xvi. 23]: “ What ye shall bake, bake to-day ; and 
what ye. shall seethe, seethe to-day.” From this R. Elazar in- 
ferred that it shall not be baked unless same is baked already, 
and it shall not be cooked unless same ‘5 cooked already. And 
this is used by the sages as a piblical support to the law of the 
combining of cookery: 

The rabbis taught: It once happened that R. Eliezer was 
sitting and lectured a whole day (of the festival) about the 
laws relating to festivals. The first part of his audience arose 
and went out, and R. Eliezer said: These people must have 
great parrels of wine, and they are in 4 hurry to drink them. 
The second portion of the audience went away, and he said: 
These people must have smaller barrels. Of the third part 
he remarked: They must have cans. Of the fourth he said : 
They must have lugs. When the fifth part left him, he said : 
They must have only goblets. When the sixth part began to 





eee. 
eae dna pe 
ees ; 


TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 29 


depart, he said: They are worthy to be scolded (because the 
college began to be empty). At the same time he looked upon 
his disciples and saw the color of their faces was changed, and he 
said to them: My children, I did not mean you. I spoke only 
about those people who leave eternal life for temporary affairs. 
When his disciples were going away, he said to them [Nehem. 
viii. 10]: “Go your way, eat fat things, drink sweet drinks, and 
send portions unto him for whom nothing is prepared ; for this 
day is holy unto our Lord: and do not grieve yourselves; but 
let the joy of the Lord be your stronghold.” 

The Master says: “ Because they leave eternal life for tem- 
porary affairs.” Is not the enjoying of the festival a religious 
duty? R. Eliezer said this in accordance with his theory that 
the enjoying of a festival is not obligatory, as we learned in the 
following Boraitha: R. Eliezer said: A man has nothing to do 
on a festival but either to eat and drink the whole day, or to sit 
and study; but R. Joshuah said: He must divide the day—one- 
half of it for eating and drinking, and one-half of it for religious 
purposes. Said R. Johanan: The above both sages deduce from 
the following verse [Deut. xvi. 8]: ‘On the seventh day shall be 
a solemn assembly unto the Lord thy God’; another verse 
[Num. xxix. 35]: “An assembly shall be to you.” How can 
the contradiction between these two verses be explained? R. 
Eliezer explains it thus: The whole day shall be either for you 
or for the Lord; but R. Joshuah explains it thus: Divide the 
day—one-half for the Lord and one-half for you. Said R. 
Elazar:* All agree that on Pentecost the day must be partly 
devoted to one’s self also. Why so? Because on this day the 
law was given to Israel, and we must enjoy it. Said Rabha: All 
agree also that on a Sabbath the day must be devoted to one’s 


--self also. Why? Because it is written [Is. lviii. 13]: “Thou 
. shalt call the Sabbath a delight.” And R. Joseph said: All 


agreé that on the festival of Purim the day must also be devoted 
to one’s self, as it is written [Esther, ix. 22]: “To make them days 
of entertainment and joy.” Mar the son of Rabina was fasting 
the whole year except on Pentecost, Purim, and the eve of the 
Day of Atonement: Pentecost, because the law was given; 
Purim, because they are days of joy and entertainment ; and the 
eve of the Day of Atonement, for a reason that is explained in 
Tract. Yomah, p. 129. : 





* This is transferred from Pesachim, p. 68, b. 


30 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


R. Joseph on the days of Pentecost used to say to his domes- 
tics: Prepare for me a calf which is the third-born (of the third 
birth), saying: If not this day be the reason, how many Josephs 
are there abroad! (and but for the law, he would not be distin- 
guished among them). 

R. Shesheth used to repeat his studies every thirty days, and, 
supporting himself against the wall of the college, said: Rejoice, 
my soul! Rejoice,my soul! For thy sake I have read, for thy 
sake I have studied. 

What is meant, in the above verse of Nehemiah, by “send 
portions to those for whom nothing is prepared’’? Said R. 
Hisda: It refers to those men who have not made an Erub Tab- 
shilin (combining of cookery). What is meant by “let the joy of 
the Lord be your stronghold”? Said R. Johanan in the name 
of R. Elazar bar Simeon: The Holy One, blessed be He, said to 
Israel: My children, borrow money for my sake, and rejoice on 
the holy day, and trust to me, I shall pay it. 

R. Tachlipha brother of Rabanai Huzaah taught: All the nec- 
essaries of a man are appointed for him in the Heavenly Court 
in the ten days between New Year and the Day of Atonement, 
except the expenses for Sabbath, the festivals, and the studies of 
his children: the amount for these purposes appointed for him 
in Heaven is the same as that which he spends (and varies with it). 

We have learned ina Boraitha: It was said that Shammai the 
Elder used to eat all days for the honor of Sabbath. When 
he found a good animal, he used to say: This shall be for Sab- 
bath. But when he found a better one, he ate the former, 
and left the better one for Sabbath; but Hillel the Elder had 
another habit : Because all his deeds were for the sake of Heaven, 
as it is written [Ps. Ixviii. 20]: ‘ Blessed be the Lord! day by day 
he loadeth us with benefits” (trusting in God to provide for 
Sabbath at the proper time).* 

“ One may prepare on the eve of the festival one dish,” etc. 
Said Abayi: Only a dish is good for the purpose, but bread alone 
is not. Why so? Shall we assume it is required to have an 
article of food which is not often eaten, and bread is always eaten, 
then a dish of dsa (mush), which is rarely eaten, is nevertheless 
disallowed by R. Nehuma bar Zachariah in the name of Abayi? 
The reason is this: One must have a thing which can be eaten 





* The saying of R. Johanan here is transferred in our edition from here to Tract 
Sabbath, p. 18, as it belongs there. 





TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 31 


with bread, and disa cannot be eaten with bread. As it hap- 
pened that R. Zera saw people eating disa with bread, he said: 
The Babylonians are fools, they eat bread with bread! 

R. Hiya taught: Lentils which are on the bottom of a pot 
may be used as an Erub Tabshilin, if the quantity is of the size 
of an olive. R. Itz’hak the son of R. Jehudah said that the fat of 
a fowl, if it is of the size of an olive, may be similarly used. And 
R. Abha said in the name of Rabh: The prescribed quantity 
for an Erub is the size of an olive, and it is sufficient for one 
or for one hundred persons. Said R. Huna in the name of 
Rabh: The combining of cookery must be done intentionally. 
It is certain that the person who makes the Erub must have the 
intention, but how is it with the person for whom the Erub 
is made? Is his intention also needed, or is it not? Come and 
hear: The father of Samuel madean Erub for all the inhabitants 
of Nehardai, and R. Ammi and R. Assi made an Erub for the 
whole population of Tiberia (hence the intention of those for 
whom the Erub is made is not necessary). 

R. Jacob bar Idi proclaimed: Everybody who has not made 
an Erub Tabshilin shall rely on my Erub Tabshilin (and shall do 
the preparing for Sabbath). And at what distance? Said R. 
Nehuma bar Zachariah in the name of Abayi: As far as the legal 
limit of Sabbath (2,000 ells). 

There was a blind man who had classified Mishnaioth before 
Mar Samuel; and Mar Samuel saw he was downcast. And he 
asked him: Why are you downcast ? And he answered: Because 
I have not made an Erub Tabshilin. Said Mar Samuel to him: 
Rely upon mine. The next year he saw him again sad, and got the 
same answer, and Mar Samuel rejoined: If it is so, you are a 
transgressor (you have not made one intentionally). All can rely 
upon my Erub Tabshilin, but not you. 

The rabbis taught: On a festival which happens to be on 
Friday, the Erub of legal limit and the Erubin of courts are not 
to be made. Rabbi, however, said: The Erub of legal limit is 
not to be made, but the Erubin of courts may, because you can 
prohibit one to do a thing for to-morrow which he may not do 
to-day ; but you cannot forbid a man to do a thing for to-morrow 
which he may do to-day (Erubin of courts are needed only for 
Sabbath, but not on festivals). It was taught: Rabh said the 
Halakha prevails according to the first Tana, but Samuel said 
the Halakha prevails according to Rabbi. 

The rabbis taught: On a fest‘val following on Sabbath one 


32 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


shall say eight benedictions; that is to say, the Sabbath benedic- 
tion separately. Beth Hillel, however, said: One shall pronounce 
seven benedictions, and he shall begin and close with Sabbath, 
and shall include the holiness of the day. Rabbi said: He shall 
close with the benediction: ‘ Blessed be He who sanctifies the 
Sabbath, Israel, and the festivals.” A disciple taught in the 
presence of Rabina: “ Who sanctified Israel, the Sabbath, and 
the festivals,’ and Rabina rejoined: Does Israel then sanctify the 
Sabbath? The Sabbath is itself holy: Say then: “ Who sanc- - 
tified the Sabbath, Israel, and the festivals.” Said R. Jose: The 
Halakha prevails according to Rabbi as interpreted by Rabina. 

The rabbis taught: On a Sabbath following on the first day of 
the month, or any day of the intermitting days, one shall pro- 
nounce in the three prayers of evening, morning, and Min’ha seven 
benedictions; and concerning the festival he shall include. the 
prayer about the return of the Temple-service, and if he has 
omitted it he must begin all again. But in the Additional Prayer 
he shall begin and close with the benediction of Sabbath, and the 
holiness of the day shall be included. 

Rabban Simeon b. Gamaliel and R. Ishmael the son of R. 
Johanan b. Broka say that whenever there are seven benedictions, 
he shall begin and close with Sabbath, and the benediction of the 
day shall be included. Said R. Huna: The Halakha does not 
prevail in accordance with last pair. : 

R. Hyya bar Ashi in the name of Rabh said: One may lay 
an Erub of legal limit on the first day of a festival (in exile, 
where two days are kept) with a condition, if the right day of the 
festival is to-day, then the Erub is null and void, because one can 
go to-morrow without any Erub at all; and if the right day 
of the festival is the next day, this Erub shall be for that 
day. Said Rabha: The same is the case with the Erub for 
cookery. 

The rabbis taught: It shall not be baked from one festival 
day for another. It was truly said that a woman may fill a whole 
pot with meat though she do not need more than one piece (for 
that day). The same is the case with a baker, who may fill a 
whole barrel with water, though he need only one can (for the 
day); but it is not allowed to bake except as much as is needed 
for the day. R. Simeon b. Elazar, however, said, that a woman 
(not a baker) may fill a whole oven with bread, because it is better 
baked when the whole oven is full. Said Rabha: The Halakha 
prevails according to the latter. 








ae es ee re 





TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 33 


The schoolmen propound a question: If one has not made an 
Erub Tabshilin, is he only prohibited to do anything for Sabbath, 
but not his flour? Or is his flour also forbidden? What is 
the difference? To transfer his flour to others, if you say the 
flour is not prohibited, then another one can take his flour and 
prepare for him; but if you say his flour is prohibited, then he 
must transfer it. Come and hear: One who has not made an 
Erub Tabshilin must not bake nor cook nor sav® either for him- 
self or for others, nor may others do it for him; but what shall 
he do (to eat something on Sabbath)? He shall transfer his flour 
to others, and then they may bake and cook for him. From this 
we infer that both he and his flour are prohibited. 

The schoolmen propounded a question: How is it if one has 
transgressed and baked without an Erub? Come and hear: If 
one has not made an Erub Tabshilin, etc. (as mentioned above). 
Now, if it would be allowed to eat, why does not the Boraitha 
state that if one has transgressed and has baked, it is allowed to 
eat? Said R. Adda b. Mathna: From this nothing can be 
inferred. The Tana advises only how to dispose for a man, he 
shall be able to prepare something in accordance with the Law ; 
but when one has acted against the Law, this Tana does not 
speak of it at all. Come and hear another Boraitha: If one has 
made an Erub Tabshilin, he may bake, cook, and save, and if he 
wants the Erub, it is allowed; but if he has eaten the Erub 
before he has baked or saved, then he is not allowed to bake, 
cook, or save either for himself or for others, neither are others 
allowed to do so for him. He may, however, cook for the festi- 
val and use what is left on the Sabbath, provided he does not do 
it cunningly (z.e., he shall not add so much that he shall have suffi- 
cient for the whole Sabbath), and when he does it cunningly he 
must not use it for the Sabbath. (Hence we see, that if he 
acted against the Law, it is prohibited.) Said R. Ashi: The 
case of cunning is different, because the rabbis were very rigor- 
ous with such. R.Na’hman b. Itz’hak said: The Boraitha which 
said that cunning is prohibited is not at all in accordance with 
the decision of the rabbis, but of an individual, Hananiah, who 
taught it in accordance with the decision of Beth Shammai, as it 
is to be understood from the following: Hananiah said: Beth 
Shammai declare: One shall not bake unless he has made an 
Erub with bread ; one shall not cook unless he has made it with 
something cooked ; and one shall not save, unless he has already 
saved warm water for the Sabbath. Beth Hillel, however, 

3 


34 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


said: One may make an Erub with something cooked, and 
through it he may prepare everything. 

“ Beth Shammai say two dishes,” etc. Our Mishna is not in 
accordance with the Tana of the following Boraitha: R. Simeon 
b. Elazar said: Both schools agree that two dishes are needed. 
In what they differ is about a fish and egg which is upon it. 
According to Beth Shammai it is considered as two dishes, but 
according to the*school of Hillel it is considered only as one dish. 
Both agree, however, that if one put in a cooked egg in the fish 
or yepadrdos in the cooked fish, it is considered as two dishes. 
Said Rabha: The Halakha prevails as our Tana and according to 
Beth Hillel. 

“Tf it has been eaten or lost,” etc. Said Abayi: We have a 
tradition that he who has begun to knead dough and heard mean- 
while that the Erub was lost, may finish his work nevertheless. 

MISHNA: When.the festival falls after a Sabbath, Beth 
Shammai say: Everything requiring purification must be im- 
mersed before the Sabbath. But Beth Hillel say: Vessels must 
be immersed before the Sabbath, and human beings on the Sab- 
bath. Both schools agree that water which has become polluted 
may be purified by pouring it into an earthenware vessel, but not 
on earth itself. It is lawful, however, to dip vessels whose original 
appropriation has been altered, and men may bathe when they 
have changed from one company to another (to eat the Paschal 
lamb).* 

GEMARA: We see from this Mishna that, according to all, 
a vessel must not be dipped on Sabbath. Whyso? Said R. 
Bibbi: It is a precautionary measure, lest one leave the vessels 
unclean on the week-days for purification on Sabbath. We have 
learned in a Boraitha in support to R. Bibbi: A vessel which has 
become unclean on the eve of the festival must not. be dipped on 
the festival; and this is a precautionary measure, as the one 
above mentioned. Rabha, however, said: The reason why one 
must not immerse on Sabbath is that it would seem as if one 
repaired the vessel. If it is so, why may a man bathe on Sab- 
bath (and a man cannot eat Terumah, etc., when he has not 
bathed). Aman is different, as it can be said that he is doing so to 
cool himself. That would be right, if he bathed in pure water; 
but if he immerses himself in turbid water? Said R. Na’hman 
bar Itz’hak: It happens that a man becomes heated, and then 





* See Tract Pesachim, Chap. IX., Mishna 1. 





“TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 35 


he bathes even in water in which flax has been steeped, to cool 
himself. This would be right in summer-time, but what can be 
said if he does it in winter-time? Said R. Na’hman bar Itz’hak: 
It may happen a man becomes dirty and soiled, and then con- 
siders not the quality of the water. All this is right on a Sab- 
bath, but what would be the law on a Day of Atonement? Said 
Rabha: Do you find something allowed to be done on Sabbath 
that is not allowed on the Day of Atonement? (Therefore, de- 
cause it is permitted on Sabbath, it is permitted also on the Day 
of Atonement.) 

“ But not on earth itself.’ What is meant by this? Said 
Samuel: He may bring it in contact with water of a legal bath, 
but not in an unclean vessel. 

According to whom is our Mishna? As it is not according 
to Rabbi, nor according to the sages of the following Boraitha : 
One must not immerse the vessel with the water therein to purify 
it, nor bring it in contact with water in a stone vessel to purify 
the water therein: so is the decree of Rabbi. The sages, how- 
ever, permitted both. (Hence according to whom is the Mishna ?) 
We may say that it is according to the sages’ opinion, and the 
Mishna refers not to purification on a week-day but on Sab- 
bath. 

“ Whose original appropriation has been altered,” etc. The 
rabbis taught: If one wishes to immerse his vessels for the pur- 
pose of filling them with the oil of newly crushed olives, and 
afterwards changes his mind and resolves to crush the olives 7 
them, or vice versa, he may do so. If one was engaged to eat 
the Paschal lamb with one company, and thereafter he changed 
his mind to eat with another company, he might do so. 

MISHNA: One may bring peace-offerings on the festival, 
but not lay his hands on them;* and burnt-offerings may not be 
brought at all—according to Beth Shammai. Beth Hillel, how- 
ever, allow all this. 

GEMARA: Said Ula: The point on which both schools 
differ is the laying of the hands on the peace-offerings of the 
feast and whether burnt-offerings of the pilgrimage may be 
sacrificed at all. Beth Shammai hold: It is written [Ex. xii. 
14]: ‘Ye shall celebrate z# as a feast unto the Lord” ; it, 2.2., 
the peace-offering, but not the burnt-offering. But Beth Hillel 
say: “unto the Lord”: that signifies, all that is unto the 





* See Lev. i. 4. 


36 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Lord is allowed. But vows and voluntary offerings, all agree, 
are not. Such also is the opinion of R. Adda bar A’hba. 
An objection was raised: We have learned elsewhere (in addi- 
tion to this Mishna): R. Simeon b. Elazar said: Both schools do 
not differ concerning a burnt-offering which does not belong to 
the festival, that it must not be offered, and also that peace-offer- 
ings which belong to the festival may be offered. In what they 
differ is, when the burnt-offering de/ongs to this festival and con- 
cerning the peace-offerings which do not belong to this festival. 
According to Beth Shammai they must not be offered, and accord- 
ing to Beth Hillel they may. (Hence we see that according to 
both, vow and voluntary offerings are to be offered on the festi- 
val?) Answer this objection that the saying of R. Simeon b. 
Elazar must read thus: He said, Both schools do not differ when 
the burnt and peace-offerings do not belong to this festival, that 
they must not be offered, and the peace-offering which belongs to 
this festival, that it may; they differ only about a burnt-offering 
which belongs to this festival, that according to Beth Shammai it 
must not, and according to Beth Hillel it may. Said R. Joseph: 
Is it necessary to make out the Boraitha as erroneous because of 
the saying of Ula? Are there not other Tanaim who differ on 
this point, and Ula’s saying can be according to them? As we 
have found in the following Boraitha: Peace-offerings which 
belong to this festival, when they are to be offered on it, Beth 
Shammai said: He may lay his hands upon it on the eve of the 
festival, and it shall be slaughtered on the festival; Beth Hillel, 
however, said: Both may be done on the festival; but vow and 
voluntary offerings must not be offered on the festival. 

And the Tanaim of the following Boraitha differ on the 
same point: One must not bring thanksgiving-offerings on all 
days of Passover, because they contain unleavened bread; 
nor on Pentecost, because it is a festival; but he may bring 
them on the Teast of Tabernacles (on the intermitting days). 
R. Simeon, however, said: It is written [Deut. xvi. 16]: “On 
Passover, on Pentecost, and on the Feast of Booths.” From 
this we may infer that ail that may be brought on Passover 
and Pentecost, may be brought also during the Feast of Taber- 
nacles; but what must not be brought on the first two, one 
may not on the third. R. Eliezer b. R. Simeon, however, 
said: One may bring thanksgiving-offerings during the Feast of 
Tabernacles, and by this will be fulfilled the duty of enjoying 
the holiday, but not the duty of bringing a feast-offering. Is not 








sae 
- 


TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 37 


this self-evident ? Are not the feast-offerings a duty, and it is ccr- 
tain that a duty must be brought of a profane (ordinary) quality ? 
He means to teach us, that even if one has explicitly said that 
he intends the thanksgiving-offering also for a feast-offering, nev- 
ertheless the duty of the feast-offering is not fulfilled. As R. 
Simeon b. Lakish asked of R. Johanan: If one say, “ I will bring 
a thanksgiving-offering, and with this I will fulfil the duty of a 
feast-offering ” ; or, “I will be a Nazarite, but when I shall bring 
the offering after shaving,* I will take it from the second tithe 
money,” what is the law? And R. Johanan answered him: He 
must bring a thanksgiving-offering, but the duty of the feast- 
offering is not fulfilled; he is a Nazarite, but cannot bring the 
shaving-offering from the sccond tithe money. 

It once happened a man said: Give four hundred Zuz to a 
certain man, and he shall marry my daughter. Said R. Papa: 
The four hundred Zuz must be given to him, and the daughter, 
if he likes her, he can marry, but not otherwise. The reason is, 
because he has said first, “ give him the money ”; [but if he had 
mentioned the daughter first he would get the money only if he 
married]. If he had said: He shall marry and take the money, 
then he must marry her first. Meremar was sitting and declar- 
ing the Halakha in his own name. Said Rabbina to him: You 
teach ‘this as if it were a Boraitha; we, however, learn it as the 
question of Resh Lakish from R. Johanan, mentioned above, and 
the decision is R. Johanan’s. 

The rabbis taught: It happened to Hillel the Elder that he 
brought his burnt-offering to the Temple-court for laying hands 
on it on the festival. The disciples of Shammai the Elder, how- 
ever, surrounded him, and asked him: What is the matter with 
this animal? And he answered: It is a female, and I have 
brought it for a peace-offering. And he shook the animal’s tail, 
and they went away. And on that day the school of Shammai 
took the upper hand over Beth Hillel, and the people wanted to 
decide the Halakha according to them; but one old man was 
there among the disciples of Shammai the Elder, Baba ben Butta 
by name, who was certain that the Halakha prevailed according 
to Beth Hillel. And he sent and brought of the best sheep of 
Jerusalem, and placed them in the Temple-court, and said: 
Everybody who wants to lay his hands upon them shall come 
and do so. And on that day Beth Hillel took the upper hand, 





* See Num. vi. 9. 


38 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


and the Halakha was decided according to them, and no objec- 
tion was made by anybody. 

Again, it happened once that a disciple of Beth Hillel brought 
his burnt-offering into the Temple-court for the purpose of laying 
his hands upon it, and a disciple of the school of Shammai met 
him and said: Why the handling? And he replied: Why are 
you not silent? So he silenced him with a rebuke, so that he 
went away. Said Abayi: From this we may infer that if a young 
scholar says to another a few words, the answer shall not be more 
lengthy than the remark which was addressed, as we have seen 
in the case of the two disciples, when he asked him: ‘ Why the 
laying of the hands?” he answered him: “ Why not be silent?” 

We have learned in a Boraitha: The disciples of Hillel 
said to the disciples of Shammai: (Is not this an a fortiord ?) 
If on Sabbath, when all things to be done for a human being 
are prohibited, nevertheless in honor of the Lord all is per- 
mitted; on a festival, when all things necessary for a human 
being may be done, so much the more everything may be done 
for the Lord (#.2., and why, then, shall a burnt-offering of the 
pilgrimage not be sacrificed’). And they answered: You can 
infer this from voluntary and vow offerings, that are permissible 
for a human being, and nevertheless even you own that they 
must not be sacrificed on a festival. Said Beth Hillel again: 
There is no comparison here because voluntary and vow offerings 
have no. appointed times. The burnt-offerings, however, have 
stated times. Rejoined Beth Shammai: Nay, even these have 
no appointed time, as we have learned in a Mishna: One who has 
not brought his feast-offering on the first day of a festival may 
do it during the whole festival and even on its last day. Re- 
joined Beth Hillel again: Is this not a fixed time? As we have 
learned in another Mishna, if one has not brought a feast-offering 
during the whole festival, he is no longer responsible to do it 
(consequently there is a stated time for it, and if we will prohibit 
him from bringing it on the first day of the festival, he may not 
bring it any more at all). Said Beth Shammai again: Has it not 
been said in the verse, ‘an assembly shall be unto you,” which 
may signify for your sake and not for the Lord’s sake? And 
they answered: Does not another verse say: ‘“‘An assembly 
shall be unto the Lord”? Whence we may infer that all which 
is in honor of the Lord shall be done. And from the expression 
“unto you” we may infer “for your sake but not for the sake of 
strangers.” 





TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 39 


R. Iviah the Elder asked R. Huna: An animal which is half 
a Gentile’s and half an Israelite’s, how is the law of slaughtering 
it ona festival? And he answered: One may do it. And he 
asked him again: What is the difference between this and volun- 
tary vow-offerings? And hereplied: A raven flew away. When 
R. Iviah was gone, said Rabba, R. Huna’s son, to his father: 
Was this not R. Iviah the Elder, whom you praised to me as 
a great man? And he answered: What could I have done with 
him? Iam to-day weak, I have lectured, and need what is writ- 
ten in Song of Songs, ii. 5, to “strengthen me with flagons of 
wine, refresh me with apples” ; and he asked me a thing of which 
the reason must be explained (at length). [And in reality, what 
is the reason? This: An animal which is half a Gentile’s and 
half an Israelite’s may be slaughtered on a festival, because if one 
wants to eat meat even the size of an olive, he cannot take it 
from the animal when it is still alive, but it must be slaughtered ; 
and as this animal belonged half to an Israelite, he can certainly 
slaughter it. But vow and voluntary offerings, they are con- 
sidered all for Heaven, and although the priests eat some of 
their meat, this is only because of their reward from Heaven, and 
not from the one who brings the offerings. ] 

Dough, however, which is half an Israelite’s and half a Gen- 
tile’s, is not to be baked on the festival, because it can be divided 
when it is yet dough. R. Hana bar Hanilai objects: We have 
learned of dough made for dogs, if the shepherd can eat of it, 
one is liable to take of it first dough, and may make an Erub 
with it, and may use it for the combining of the entrance; 
and the benediction of eating may be said over it, and if 
three or more men had eaten of it, they may pronounce the 
benediction of the meal, and it may be baked on the festival, 
and the man who eats it (when it is not leavened) on the first 
evening of Passover has done his duty of eating Matzah. 
Now, if it is possible to divide it when it is dough, why should 
it be baked on a festival (let him set apart the portion for the 
dogs, and bake for himself)? The dough for the dogs is dif- 
ferent ; because one can give a carcass to the dogs, instead of the 
dough. But does R. Hisda hold the supposition of because ? 
Was it not taught (Vol. V., p. 74) that R. Hisda is against this 
supposition? Say, the case is when the shepherd has a carcass 
and intends.to do so. 

R. Huna was asked: May the inhabitants of Baga, who 
had the duty to give bread to the military, bake it on the festi- 


40 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


val? And he answered: Let us see. If the soldiers are not 
particular when one takes a piece of the bread and gives it to 
a child, then of every loaf we can say: “This is fit for a child,” 
and it may be baked. But if they are particular, it may not be so 
done. But have we not learned in a Boraitha as follows: It once 
happened to Simeon of Teman that he did not visit the house of 
learning on a festival day. On the morrow Jehudah b. Baba 
asked him: Why wast thou not yesterday in the house of learn- 
ing? And he answered: Military were coming yesterday into 
the city, and wanted to rob the whole city; and we slaughtered 
for them calves, and made them eat, and they went away in peace. 
Rejoined R. Jehudah b. Baba: I wonder whether your loss was 
not greater than your benefit, for the Torah teaches “ unto you,” 
but not unto Gentiles. (They should not have done work for the 
soldiers.) Now, why? Were not the calves fit for Israelites also? 
Said R. Joseph: The calves were Terepha.* 

But was it not fit for dogs when the owners are obliged to feed 
them? The Tanaim of the following Boraitha differ about this 
law: It is written [Ex. xii. 16]: “Save what is eaten by every 
soul, that only may be prepared for you.” From the expression 
“every soul,” we may infer, even a soul of an animal, as we find 
[in Leviticus xxiv.], “he that taketh the soul of an animal shall 
pay for it.” Therefore the verse says plainly, “for you,” and not 
for dogs. So said R. Jose the Galilean. R. Agqiba, however, 
said: For all souls, even souls of animals, are included. But for 
what purpose is it written “for you’’ ? To indicate only animals 
for whose support you are responsible, but not for strangers, for 
whose support you are not responsible. Rabha accompanied 
Mar Samuel to the pulpit and the latter lectured: One may 
invite a Gentile on Sabbath, but not on a festival day, because on 
a festival day he may increase the Israelite’s work in his behalf. 
When a Gentile guest came to Maremar or to Mar Zutra on a festi- 
val day, they said to him: If you are satisfied with what we have 
already done for ourselves, then you are welcome; and if not, 
you must excuse us, because we must not do any work for 
you. 

MISHNA: It is prohibited to boil water on the festival for 
the purpose of washing the feet, unless the water is also fit to 
drink, according to Beth Shammai. But Beth Hillel allow it. 





* Legally prohibited to be eaten by Israelites, as will be explained in Tract 
Hulin. 








TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 41 


(All agree, however,) that a fire is to be made for the sole pur- 
pose of warming himself by it. 

In three things Rabban Gamaliel decides like the school of 
Shammai more rigorously, namely: They prohibit to commence 
to preserve the heat of pots for Sabbath on its eve, when it hap- 
pens to be a festival; to put together the pieces of a candela- 
brum; and to bake large loaves, but only thin cakes. Rabban 
Gamaliel said: They never used to bake in my father’s house 
large loaves on the festival, but only thin cakes. The sages, 
however, said to him: What does this usage of your father’s 
family prove, who though strict in this respect nevertheless 
allowed all Israel to bake on the festival large loaves and thick 
cakes ? 

GEMARA: How is the case? If an Erub Tabshilin was 
made, why do Beth Shammai prohibit it? And if none was made, 
why do Beth Hillel permit it? Said R. Huna: It may be ex- 
plained, when the case is that an Erub Tabshilin was not made, 
but nevertheless what is necessary for one’s life, the sages permit. 
And this is according to his theory elsewhere, where he said: 
If one has not made an Erub Tabshilin, one loaf and one pot 
may be baked, and cooked for him, and also light may be kin- 
dled for him. In the name of R. Itz’hak it was said: They may 
roast for him also a small fish. The same we have learned ina 
Boraitha, with the addition that one pitcher of water may be 
heated for him. Rabha, however, said: The Mishna can be ex- 
plained also thus: that an Erub Tabshilin was made, and. never- 
theless Beth Shammai prohibit it, because the preserving of the 
heat everybody can see is done only for Sabbath. 

“ To put together pieces of a candelabrum.” What labor is in 
it? Said R. Hin’na bar Bisna: This refers to a candelabrum 
whose parts have to be screwed together, and is regarded like an 
act of. building (construction) (see Tract Sabbath, p. 266). 

It happened once that Ula came to R. Jehudah; his servant 
inclined the lamp so that the wick should sooner be extin- 
guished (by the oil being out of its reach). R. Jehudah ob- 
jected: Did we not learn that whoso puts oil into the lamp is 
culpable of kindling fire? and whoso removes the oil therefrom is 
culpable of extinguishing? Answered Ula: The servant did it 
without my knowledge. ; 

Rabh said: To snuff a lamp on a festival is permitted. 
Abayi asked Rabba: How is the law to extinguish a con- 
flagration on a festival? When there is danger of loss of life 


42 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


I do not ask, for it is allowed even on a Sabboth; what I ask is, 
when there is a pecuniary loss only? He answered: It is not 
permitted. Abayi objected to him: Did we not learn: A chip 
of wood must not be extinguished in order to save it. However, 
for preventing the house or the pot from being filled with smoke, 
it is permitted? He rejoined: This is in accordance with R. 
Jehudah, but my decision is in accordance with the majority of 
the rabbis. 

R. Ashi asked Amemar: How is the law to paint the eyes 
(for a medical purpose) on a festival? When there is danger, e.g., 
when they prick, or are bloodshot, or drip, or drop tears continu- 
ally, or are in fever at the first stages, it is not doubtful to me, as 
this is allowed even on a Sabbath. Where I am uncertain is, 
when they are almost cured, and the painting is done only for 
improving the sight? He decided that it is not allowed. R. 
Ashi objected to him with the same Boraitha which Abayi 
objected to Rabba as stated above, and Amemar’s answer was 
the same. 

Amemar himself, however, used to dye his eyes through a Gen- 
tileon the Sabbath. Said R. Ashi to him: What is your opinion 
in doing it? Because Ula the son of R. [lai said: All that is 
necessary for a sick man may be done through a Gentile on 
Sabbath. And also R. Hamnuna said: All things which are 
not dangerous, it may be said to a Gentile that he should 
do them. But when is this the case? When the Gentile does 
it himself without assistance from the Israelite. But you, 
Master, assist him in his dyeing by your opening and closing 
the eyes. And he answered: There is R. Zbid, who has also 
asked the same question, and I answered him that assistance 
is not considered a labor at all. The same Amemar allowed 
that one should dye his eyes on the second day of New Year. 
Said R. Ashi to him: Did not Rabha say that in the two days 
of New Year the case is different with an egg (see above, p. 8)? 
_ And he answered: My opinion is as that of the sages of Nehardai, 
who say there is no difference. 

“ To bake large loaves,” etc. The rabbis taught : The school of 
Shammai said: Thick loaves must not be baked on the Pass- 
over. Beth Hillel permit it. What are called thick loaves? Said 
R. Huna: If it is a span in thickness, for the showbread was thus. 
R. Joseph opposed: What comparison is this? There it is 
related of the specialists, who knew their work and were careful; 
there a great deal of labor was necessary (as stated in Menahoth, 











TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 43 


that the flour of the showbread required three hundred oscil- 
lations and five hundred beatings of the fist); there it was baked 
with dry wood (as stated in Taanith, that on the fifteenth of Ab 
they had ceased to cut wood for the Temple); there was a hot 
oven which was constantly fired, and it was of iron. Should it be 
compared to common people, to common bread, to wet wood, 
and a brick oven which may not be heated as required ? 

Said R. Jeremiah bar Abhain the name of Rabh: I have asked 
especially our Master, our holy rabbi, what is meant by thick 
loaves? And he said: A great quantity; z¢., not the loaves are 
thick, but the quantity of the dough is great. But why does 
he call them thick loaves? Because it is thick when kneaded. If 
so, why is it prohibited only on Passover, why not on other festi- 
vals also? It means also other festivals, but the Tana was teach- 
ing them the laws of Passover, and therefore mentioned that 
festival. Another Boraitha says plainly: Much bread shall not 
be baked on a festival, according to Beth Shammai; but Beth 
Hillel allow it. 

MISHNA: He (Rabban Gamaliel) decided the law leniently 
in respect to the following three things: He allowed to sweep on 
the festival between the couches (or sofas on which the ancients 
used to eat), to put spices on live coals (after meals), and to pre- 
pare a complete roasted kid on the nights of Passover (as a 
memorial to the Paschal lamb). But the sages prohibit all these. 

GEMARA: Said R. Assi: They differ only about the enjoy- 
ment of the odor of the spices, when they are already there ; but 
to put the spices on the live coals, all prohibit. The schoolmen 
propounded a question: How is the law to put fruit in the 
smoke of spices to flavor them on the festival (as the custom 
was todo)? R. Jeremiah bar Abha in the name of Rabh said: 
It is prohibited, but Samuel permitted it. R.Huna said: It is 
prohibited, because one extinguishes the live coals. Said to him 
R. Na’hman: Let the Master say, because one kindles the spices ? 
And he answered: In the beginning, when he pours out the 
spices on the coals, he extinguishes the coals, and afterwards 
they kindle. R. Jehudah, however, said: That is prohibited 
only on live coals, but in a heated oven it is permitted. Rabba, 
however, said: This is also prohibited, because he produces a new 
odor in the oven. [Rabba and R. Joseph both said: It is unlawful 
to cover a silk garment with a goblet of spices on a festival in 
order to impart an odor to it. Why so? Because the garment 
produces anew odor. But why is this different from grinding 


44 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


or cutting spices for smelling, which is allowed? There the 
odor is in it when grinding or cutting them, the odor is only 
increased, but here he produces a new odor altogether. ] 

Rabha, however, said : Even on live coals it is also permitted, 
because is it not allowed to put meat on live coals for eating on 
a festival? R. Gbiha of Be-Kthil at the door of the exilarch 
lectured: Fuming is allowed. Said Amemar to him : What 
is meant by fuming? Does it mean to perfume the sleeves of a 
woman’s dress? This must be done by a specialist, and this is 
certainly prohibited. And if it means to fume to produce good 
odors, the producing of a new odor is not permitted also? Said 
R. Ashi: J have declared this law to him and in the name of a 
great man, that it may be even to produce a new odor, and it is 
nevertheless permissible, because it is equal to meat on live coals, 
which is permitted. 

MISHNA: Rabbi Elazar ben Azariah permitted three things 
which the other sages prohibit: His cow was going out on a Sab- 
bath with a strap attached to her horns; he permitted also to 
curry cattle on the festival, and to grind pepper in a pepper-mill. 
R. Jehudah says: It is not permitted with an iron currycomb, 
because a wound may be inflicted; but with a wooden comb it is. 
The sages, however, prohibit both. 

GEMARA: Did R. Elazar ben Azariah possess but one cow? 
Did not Rabh, or according to others R. Jehudah in the name of 
Rabh, say that thirteen thousand calves used R. Elazar ben 
Azariah to give as tithes from his cattle yearly? We have 
learned in a Boraitha that the cow mentioned in our Mishna was 
not his, but his neighbor’s, and because he did not protest, it was 
considered as if it was his own. 

“ He also permitted to curry cattle,’ etc. The rabbis taught : 
What is called 3J9D? An iron comb with small teeth, which 
produces a wound. What is called FIST ? A wooden comb 
with large teeth, which produces no wound. And three Tanaim 
differ about this law. R. Jehudah holds that if a thing was done 
even unintentionally, it is prohibited; but we do not take a 
precautionary measure to a wooden comb, lest one do it with 
one iron one. The sages are of the same opinion as R. Jehudah, 
but they say that such a precautionary measure may be taken. 
R. Elazar b, Azariah, however, holds with R. Simeon, who said 
that a thing done unintentionally is not prohibited at all, and 
therefore he permits both. Said R: Na’hman: The Halakha 
prevails according to R. Simeon, because R. Elazar ben Azariah 








TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 45 


agrees with him. Said Rabha to R. Na’hman: Why does not 
the Master say that the Halakha prevails according to R. Jehu- 
dah because the sages agree with him? And he answered: | 
hold with R. Simeon, and confirm my opinion because R. Elazar 
ben Azariah agrees with him. 

MISHNA: A pepper hand-mill is subject to defilement in 
all the three separate vessels whereof it is composed: the upper, 
because it is of metal; the middle one, because it is a kind of a 
sieve (which allows only the finely ground particles to pass 
through) ; and the lower one, because it is a vessel of capacity 
(where the ground pepper is collected). 

A child’s cart is subject to defilement through pressure (as 

will be explained in Tract Taharoth), and may be moved on Sab- 

bath from one place to another, provided it is dragged over cloths 
or carpets. R. Jehudah said: It is not allowed to drag any piece 
of furniture except such a cart, because it makes but a slight im- 
pression on the ground (and does not remove the soil so as to 
make a furrow). 

GEMARA: The cart is subject to defilement through pres- 
sure, because the child is in the habit of sitting on it. It may be 
handled on Sabbath, because it is a vessel; and may be dragged 
only on pieces of cloth, but not over the ground itself, because it 
would make a furrow, and the whole Mishna is in accordance 
with R. Jehudah, who holds that a thing which is made uninten- 
tionally, is also prohibited; but according to R. Simeon, who 
holds that it is not, it may be dragged on the ground also, no 
matter if it makes a furrow. 





APPENDIX TO PAGE 4q2. 


R. Zutra bar Tubiah said in the name of Rabh: If an eye has rebelled (bulges 
out), it may be painted even on Sabbath. The hearers thought, that is if the paint 
was already prepared ; but to prepare and bring it through public ground on the 
Sabbath, it may not. Said one of the scholars, whose name was Jacob, to them: It 
was explained to me by R. Jehudah that even all this may be done. R. Jehudah 
permitted to paint an eye on Sabbath. Said R. Samuel bar .Jehudah: Who will 
follow Jehudah, who permits to violate the Sabbath? Finally himself had sore eyes, 
and he sent to R. Jehudah to inquire whether it was permitted (to paint the eyes) or 
not, and the answer was: It is permitted to all, but not to you (because you have 
rejected my decision). And in reality, was it then my decision? It was Mar Samuel's. 
When his servant had feyer in her eyes on a Sabbath, she cried, but none attended 
her (because of Sabbath). Finally the eye burst. On the morrow Mar Samuel 
lectured in public that if an eye has bulged out it may be painted on Sabbath, be- 
cause the veins of the eye are connected with the cells of the heart. 

R. Joshua b. Levi said: Unkli may be cured on Sabbath. What is ‘* Unkli”? 
Said R. Abba: 4sthma,—From Abodah Zarah, pp. 284-294, 


CHAPTER III. 
‘REGULATIONS CONCERNING FISHING AND HUNTING ON FESTIVALS. 


MISHNA: It is not allowed to catch fish from aquaria on 
festivals, nor to give them food; but one may hunt beasts or 
birds in parks, and feed them. Rabban Simeon b. Gamaliel says: 
Not all aquaria and parks are regarded in the same light. 
This is the general rule. In case the animals have to be 
hunted it is prohibited; but when no hunting is required, it is 
not. 
GEMARA: There is a contradiction. We have learned in a 
Tosephta that in parks beasts and fowls must not be caught on 
the festival, and must not be fed. The contradiction between 
the Tosephta and Mishna concerning the beasts could be explained 
that the Tosephta is in accordance with R. Jehudah, who pro- 
hibits this (Sabbath, p. 216); but the contradiction about fowls, 
how can it be explained? And if it be said, that here also there 
is no difficulty, because the Tosephta meant an unroofed park, 
while the Mishna spoke of a roofed park, did not the Mishna in 
Tract Sabbath state that according to all a fowl must not be 
caught in a house, and a house is certainly meant a roofed one? 
Said Rabha bar R. Huna: The Tosephta meant a bird called 
Durur in Arabic, which it is very difficult to catch, and which 
never becomes domesticated. As the disciples of R. Ishmael 
taught: Why is this fowl named Durur? Because to it the 
house and the field are the same. Now, when we know this, 
the contradiction about beasts can also be explained, that the 
Mishna speaks of a small park, and the Tosephta of a great 
one, where it is difficult to catch. What is called a small park, 
or a great park? Said R. Ashi: If the shadows of the two walls 
on the ground touch, then it is small, but otherwise it is great. 

“ R. Simeon b. Gamaliel says,” etc. Said R. Joseph in the 
name of R. Jehudah quoting Samuel: The Halakha prevails 
according to R. Simeon b. Gamaliel. Said Abayi to him: Is 
there any one that differs from him, that it is necessary for you 
to declare that the Halakha prevails according to R. Simeon b. 

46 











TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 47 


Gamaliel? Said the former: And what difference is it to you? 
Rejoined Abayi: Shall the Gemara be like a song, to learn it 
without knowing any reason for each decision? 

“ This is the general rule,’ etc. What is. meant by “have to 

be hunted”? The same authority says in the name of the same 
authority: If one must say, bring a net to catch it. Said Abayi 
to R. Joseph: Of geese and chickens it is usually said, bring a 
net, we will catch them. Nevertheless we have learned in a 
Boraitha that whoso catches geese and chickens is not culpable? 
Said Rabba bar R. Huna in the name of Samuel: The latter 
come to their places in the evening, and the owner is responsible 
for their feeding (therefore whoso catches them is not culpable), 
but animals of a park do not do so, and the owner is not obliged 
to feed them. 
. MISHNA; If nets have been spread for fish or wild game 
on the eve of a festival, it is not allowed to take from them, on 
the festival, unless it is known that they have been caught be- 
fore itscommencement. It once happened that a Gentile brought 
on the festival a present of fish to Rabban Gamaliel, when he said : 
It is allowed to use them, but I do not wish to accept presents 
from that man. 

GEMARA: Is the deed of R. Gamaliel not in contradiction 
with the teaching of the Mishna? The Mishna is not completed. 
It must be read thus: If it is doubtful whether a thing was pre- 
pared from the day before, it is prohibited; but R. Gamaliel per- 
mits it; and it once happened also that a Gentile brought fish on 
a festival, in the morning, as a present to R. Gamaliel, and he 
said: They are permitted, etc. R. Jehudah in the name of 
Samuel said: The Halakha does not prevail according to R. 
Gamaliel. According to others, R. Jehudah declared his decision 
about the following Boraitha: Beasts from parks may be slaugh- 
tered, but not from nets (because it is not known on what day 
they were found there, on the festival or before it). R. Simeon 
b. Elazar said: If one found the nets disturbed on the eve of 
a festival, it is certain that they had been caught before the festi- 
val, and they are permitted ; but if he came on the festival, and 
saw them disturbed, it is certain they were caught during the 
festival, and they are not allowed. Is this saying not contra- 
dictory in itself? It says: If he found it disturbed on the eve 
of a festival, it is certain that they were caught before the festi- 
val, and they are allowed, from which it is to be understood, that 
if it was doubtful, it is not allowed ; and in the latter part it says: 


48 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


If he found it disturbed on the festival, etc., it is certain that 
they were caught during the festival, and they are not allowed, 
from which it is to be inferred that when there is a doubt it is 
permissible? It means to say thus: If he found it disturbed on 
the eve, it is certain that they were already caught, and are per- 
missible; but if it was doubtful, it is to be considered that they 
were caught on the festival, and are not permissible. Said R. 
Jehudah in the name of Samuel: The Halakha prevails according 
to R. Simeon b. Elazar. 

“ When he said, it ts allowed,” etc. Allowed what? Rabh 
said: They are permitted to be received, but Levi said, they are 
permitted to be eaten. 

Said Rabh: A man should never absent himself from the 
house of learning, even for one hour, because I and Levi both 
were in the college when Rabbi declared this Halakha. In the 
evening he said: They are permitted to be eaten; but in the 
morning he said: They are permitted to be received. I, who 
was in the college in the morning and heard his second decision, 
gave up the first; but Levi, who was not, did not. 

R. Papa said: The Halakha is as follows: If a Gentile brought 
a present to an Israelite on a festival, if the same kind of produc- 
tions are found yet on the trees or ground, it is prohibited; and 
even in the evening, one must wait till the time when such a 
thing may be gathered and brought. But if that kind of produc- 
tion is no longer found on trees or on the field, then, if- the 
present has been carried from within the legal limit, it may be 
accepted, but if from beyond the legal limit it may not. And if 
it has been brought for one Israelite, another may use it. 

Rabba bar R. Huna said in the name of Rabh: When one 
has choked a pond, on the eve of a festival, and on the morrow 
he found there fish, they are permitted. Said R. Hisda: From 
the teaching of our Master we can infer that a beast which was 
overnight in the garden need not have been prepared on the pre- 
ceding day (may be used). Said R. Na’hman: My colleague has 
attempted to decide the quarrel of great men. In the case of the 
fish, the man does nothing; but in this case, he must catch it. 
But how could R. Hisda decide that it has not to be prepared, 
did we not learn in a Boraitha, that a beast that was overnight 
in a garden must have been prepared, and a bird must have had 
*its wings bound that it should not be exchanged for another ? 
And this law is one of those which it has been testified, that they 
were said by Shemaia and Abtalian? This objection remains. 











TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 49 


MISHNA: It is not allowed to kill on a festival an animal 
suffering from a mortal disease, unless there is time to eat thereof, 
on that day, at least the size of an olive, roasted. Rabbi Aqiba 
allows it, if there be only time to eat thereof the size of an olive, 
raw, even in the very place where it is slaughtered. If it has 
been killed in the field, the entire carcass may not be carried 
home on poles or sticks, but only piecemeal, by hand. 

GEMARA: Said Rami bar Abba: The taking off the skin, 
and the cutting of a burnt-offering (which could be burnt without 
this) is only to teach the latter generations, that one shall not eat 
meat of a slaughtered animal before the skin is taken off, and was 
not cut in the usual pieces. Is this also a necessary teaching? 
Yea, as we have learned in a Boraitha, a man shall not commence 
eating garlic or onions from the roots, but from the leaves; 
otherwise his taste is coarse. Likewise, a man should not empty 
his goblet at a draught, otherwise he resembles a drunkard.* 

A Boraitha states in the name of R. Meir: Why was the Law 
given to Israel? Because they are bold (difficult to be van- 
quished). The disciples of R. Ishmael taught: It is written 
[Deut. xxxiii. 2]: “ From his right hand he gave a fiery law unto 
them.’ The Holy One, blessed be He, said: The Israelites are 
so bold that a fiery law must be given to them. According to 
others, the law of this people is like fire, because if such a law 
had not been given to them, no nation and tongue could stand 
before them. And this is as R. Simeon b. Lakish said: The 
boldest nation of all nations is Israel.t 

“ The entire carcass may not be brought on poles.” The rabbis 
taught: A blind man should not walk with his stick on a festival, 
nor a shepherd with his bag (pouch); also, a man must not be 
carried in a chair. It matters not whether it is a man or a woman. 
This is not so? Did not R. Jacob bar Iddisend a message that 
an old man was in his neighborhood and he was carried in a litter 
(Lectica), and they went to R. Joshuah b. Levi and asked him 
whether it was lawful, and his answer was, that if he was needed 
by many people, he could do so. And our Masters use as a sup- 

* port to this opinion words of Ahi Shakia, who said: I have carried 
R. Huna in a chair on the festival from Hini to Shilli, and back. 
And R. Na’hman bar Itz’hak told: I have carried Mar Samuel 





* See Tract Pesachim, p. 171. 
¢ This is explained in our periodical ‘‘ Hakol,” also in our ‘‘ Lebaker Mishpat,” 
and we will touch upon it in our present translation. 


4 


50 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


from the shadow into sunshine, and back. The reason is stated, 
because if many people needed him it was allowed. 

Says R. Na’hman to Hama bar Adda, the messenger of Zion: 
When you go to Palestine, turn down from your road and ascend 
the “ Ladder of Tzur” and visit R. Jacob bar Iddi and ask him: 
How is their custom with a litter? When he arrived there, R. Jacob 
bar Iddi was dead, and he found R. Zrika, and asked him: How 
is your custom in regard to litters? And he answered: So said 
R. Ammi: One may be carried in them, provided he shall not 
put his hands on the shoulders of the bearers. What is meant 
by this? Said R. Joseph the son of Rabha: He shall not be car- 
ried in a palanquin (a kind of litter which required that he who is 
carried should hold by the shoulders of the bearers). Is that so? 
Did not R. Na’hman allow his wife Yalta to be carried in a palan- 
quin? The case with Yalta was different; she was timid. 

Amemar and Mar Zutra were carried on the Sabbath before 
the festivals on a palanquin, because there was a great crowd and 
it was feared they would be injured. According to others: Be- 
cause it was so crowded by the people who came to hear, that 
they could not pass through. 


MISHNA: If a first-born animal fall into a pit on the festival . 


(and it is not known whether it was injured), R. Jehudah says: 
An expert may descend and see whether it had already an in- 
curable and permanent blemish, in which case it may be drawn 
up and killed, but not otherwise. R. Simeon, however, said: If 
a blemish in a first-born animal was not recognized on the eve of 
the festival, this is not considered prepared, and must not be 
killed on the holiday. 

GEMARA: On what point do they differ? Shall we assume 
that the point is, if it is allowed to examine blemishes on the 
festival, that according to R. Jehudah it is allowed, and accord- 
ing to R. Simeon it is not, then let him say so plainly. Why do 
they differ here when it fell in a pit? This case was necessary, 
lest one say that, because here is pity for the living thing which 
falls in the pit, it shall be allowed to be taken out for the 
purpose of slaughtering it, if it has a blemish, as R. Joshua said 
further on (Chap. V., p. 75). Therefore it comes to teach us 
that even in this case there is yet a difference of opinion. 

If it is so, then the Mishna should say, he shall drzmg it up 
and slaughter it? And the difference on this point is only 
whether it should be slaughtered or not? The case is, when he 
has already brought it up, lest one say that when it is brought up 








cer See Ee Sle 


TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 51 


it may be slaughtered. Slaughtered! is it not a first-born with- 
out a blemish? That means, if it got a blemish. But if it has 
the blemish now, is it not yet Muktzah? The case is when it 
has a blemish which has to be examined on the eve of the 
festival, and now through its fall it has got a permanent blemish, 
and it can be slaughtered without any examination, lest one say 
that because a blemish was from yesterday, the owner had it in 
his mind, and might be slaughtered to-day, the Mishna comes to 
teach us that it is not so. 

The rabbis taught: Of a first-born animal which was with- 
out blemish (if it fall into a pit on a festival), R. Jehudah the 
Nassi said: An expert shall descend and see whether it had 
a blemish, and then it may be drawn up and slaughtered; and if 
not, it shall not be slaughtered. Said R. Simeon b. Menasia to 
him: Did not the sages say that blemishes must not be examined 
on a festival? How so? If it got a blemish on the preceding 
day it must not be examined on the festival; but if it got the 
blemish on the festival, R. Simeon said that it could not be killed, 
because it was not prepared fromthe day before. They all agree, 
however, that if it was born on a festival with a blemish, it is con- 
sidered as prepared. Rabba bar R. Huna lectured: If the animal 
was born with a blemish, the examination may be commenced 
on the festival. Said R. Na’hman to him: Abba,* we have 
learned if he has transgressed and ‘had already examined, the 
examination can be useful, and thou sayest that they may com- 
mence the examination? Said Abayi: It seems to me that 
Rabba bar Huna is right, because the Boraitha teaches three 
cases. If it got a blemish on the eve it must not be examined 
on the festival. From this we may infer that it must not be 
examined, but that if it has already been examined, it may be 
used. (The second case is) if the blemish was got on the festi- 
val, R. Simeon said that it is not prepared. From this we see 
that, even if it has been examined and a real blemish found, it 
must also not be used. (And the third case is) all agree that if 
it was born with a blemish on a festival, it is considered prepared. 
Consequently, the examination may be commenced. 

(Is that so?) We know that when R. Oshija came from 
Palestine he brought a Boraitha. Either when he got a blemish 
on the eve of the festival, or on the festival, according to the 





* Rabba’s name was Adda, and Rabba means Rab Abba, R,. Na’hman as a 
colleague addresses him by name. 


52 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


sages it isnot to be considered prepared (and the Boraitha must be 
in accordance with R. Simeon, who says that it must not be ex- 
amined on the festival; and nevertheless the Boraitha teaches that 
even if the blemish was from the eve of the festival, it is also not 
to be considered as prepared, we can say, then, that if it was born 
with a blemish, it is permissible only when it was examined, but 
it is not allowed to commence the examination, as R. Na’>hman 
said above?) Yea, it can be said so, but the following Boraitha 
is yet a contradiction to him (why, then, should you prefer the 
Boraitha which R. Oshiya brought to the former ?) Because the 
former Boraitha came from the sources of Adda bar Ukhmi,* who 
was known to be erratic in the Boraithas which he taught. Said 
R. Na’hman bar Itz’hak: It seems from our Mishna also that it 
is in accordance with the Boraitha of R. Oshiya, because it states: 
R. Simeon said: If the blemish was not recognized on the eve, 
etc., it is not considered prepared. Now let us see what is meant 
by “recognized”? Shall we assume that it was not visible at 
all? This would be self-evident. We must then say that it was 
not examined whether it was a permanent blemish or a temporary 
one; nevertheless it states that it is not considered prepared, even 
when one slaughtered it. (Consequently the latter part of the 
Mishna, which states that “all agree,” etc., “it is prepared,” must 
be explained as R. Na’hman corrected.) 

Hillel asked of Rabha: Does the law of Muktzah exist for 
a half of Sabbath (z.e., whether a thing is fit for one half of Sab- 
bath, but not for the other half)? How can such a case be? If 
it was fit in twilight, then it was fit for the whole Sabbath; and 
if it was not fit at twilight, then it was not fit for the whole Sab- 





* This name is mentioned only once in the whole Babylonian Talmud. In the 
Palestinian Talmud, however (Chap. I., Halakha 3) is mentioned R. Adda bar 
Uikhuma. The different pronunciation of the two Talmuds is usual, and so this 
Amora is the only one who was erratic. We are surprised why Zacuto and Heilprin, 
in ‘‘Seder-Hadoroth,” ascribed this to Adda bar Abhimi, who is also mentioned 
only once in the whole Talmud. (In our edition, Vol. III., p. 24, and in the old 
edition the same saying is repeated, 9 4 and 12 a), and there is not to be found even a 
hint that he was erratic. Also in the Palestinian Talmud the same is mentioned 
twice (Berakhoth, Chap. I., Halakha 3), with whom two great men of the Amoraim, 
R. Tanhum and R. Hezekiah, communicated. There it is also said that he was a 
disciple of R. Zera (Zeera—according to the pronunciation of the Palestinian 
Talmud). Why, then, should it be ascribed to such a man that he was erratic? 
Moreover, Heilprin does not mention Adda bar Ukhmi among the Amoraim at all, 
although he mentions his name in the paragraph of Adda bar Abhimi, and gives also 
all our citation mentioned above. We also do not know the sources from which 
Heilprin states that according to others it is Abba bar Abhimi, 








TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 53 


bath? He meant to say it was fit at twilight, but afterwards it 
got wet from rain, and dried again, as it was in the beginning, and 
not fit during one part of Sabbath, and then fit again. How is it? 
The answer was: There is no law of Muktzah fora half of Sabbath. 
Shall we assume that the above Boraitha, which declares that if 
it was born with a blemish it shall be considered as prepared, is a 
support to Rabha’s decree? Because the first-born, when it was 
yet in the womb of its mother, was fit along with its mother 
(because it was not reckoned a firstling before its birth); and as 
soon as it is born, it is not fit; and after its being examined by 
an expert and found blemished it becomes again fit (from this 
we see that the law of Muktzah does not exist for a half of Sab- 
bath, as it was fit before its birth, became unfit at birth, and be- 
came fit again after examination). 

Nay, said Abayi in the name of R. Saphra: It may be that the 
case was, the expert was by when it was born, and saw it was fit 
from its birth. 

R. Jehudah the second possessed a firstling, and sent it to R. 
Ammi on a festival for examination. At first he thought he 
would not examine it. Said R. Zrika, or according to others 
R. Jeremiah, to him: If R. Simeon and R. Jehudah differ, the 
Halakha prevails according to R. Jehudah. 

At another time he sent it to R. Itz’hak of Naph’ha, and the 
same happened again. Said R. Abba to R. Zrika: Why did not 
you let people do a thing in accordance with R. Simeon? And 
he answered him: Have you heard any decision that the Hala- 
kha is according to R. Simeon? And he said: Yea, so I have 
heard from R. Zera. Said some one of the disciples present: If I 
will be worthy to go to Palestine, I would like to learn the Hala- 
kha from the mouth of R. Zera. Later when he came to Palestine, 
he asked R. Zera: Did the Master say that the Halakha prevails 
according to R. Simeon? And he answered: I did not say it is 
so, but I said: It seems so to me, because the Mishna relates, 
R. Simeon said: If the blemish was not recognized while it was 
yet day, it is not prepared, and the Boraitha teaches the same in 
the name of the sages (in plural). And I thought the Boraitha 
did so because the Halakha prevails accordingly. How is it in 
reality? Said R. Joseph: Come and hear. I will base my de- 
cision on the words of great men, that R. Simeon ben Pazzi in 
the name of R. Joshuah b. Levi, quoting R. Jose b. Saul in the 
name of Rabbi, upon the authority of the Holy Assembly of 
Jerusalem, said that R. Simeon (b. Menasseh) and his colleagues 


54 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


decide the above Halakha according to R. Meir. How can they 
have decided it according to R. Meir? They lived (the Holy 
Assembly of Jerusalem) in an earlier age than he. Say, they 
decided it in accordance with the system of R. Meir (this will be 
explained in Tract B’choroth). 

Ammi of Vardinaa was the examiner of the firstlings of the 
Nasi; and he did not examine on festivals. When this was told 
to R. Ammi, he said, he does right. Is it so? Did not R. 
Ammi himself examine the blemishes of the firstlings? Nay, he 
used to see them the preceding day, but he kept his decision 
until the morrow, when he asked the owner how the animal had 
come by the blemish. As it happened when a man brought a 
firstling before Rabha on the eve of a festival, after noon, and at 
that time Rabha was washing his head. He raised his eyes, and 
looked on the blemish, and told the man: Go away to-day, and 
come to-morrow. The next day he asked him what was the 
cause of the blemish, and he answered: I have given it barley on 
one side of thorns, and it was on the other side; when it wanted 
to eat, it put forth its head between the thorns and thus tore its 
lip. And Rabha asked him: Perhaps you did it intentionally ? 
And he said: No. 

MISHNA: An animal which dies on the festival may not be 
removed thereon. It happened once, when Rabbi Tarphon was 
questioned on the subject, and also concerning a separate piece 
of dough, which had become polluted, he went to the céllege and 
inquired. They told him: They may not be removed from the 
spot. 

GEMARA: Shall we say that this anonymous Mishna is not 
in accordance with R. Simeon (see Sabbath, p. 375)? Nay, the 
Mishna can be explained in accordance with him, but he owns 
that animals that died on Sabbath are prohibited. This would 
be right according to Mar bar Amemar, who said in the name of 
Rabh that R. Simeon ownsit ; but according to Mar b. R. Joseph, 
who declares in the name of Rabha that R. Simeon differs, even 
when the animals died on Sabbath, and said that they may be 
used? (What can be said to that ?) Zera explained this Mishna, 
that it refers to an animal that was consecrated for sacrifice. 
And it seems Zera is right in his explanation, because the Mishna 
speaks further on about Hala that became unclean; and as the 
Hala was a consecrated thing, so must be also the animal in 
question. 

MISHNA: An association for the purpose of jointly pur- 














CIP Ne I ES se 





TRACT BETZAH (YOM ‘TOB). 55 


chasing an animal may not be formed on the festival; but if this 
was arranged before the festival, the animal so purchased may be 
slaughtered and shared on the festival. 

GEMARA: What is meant by “may not be formed’? Said 
R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel: The price of the animal must 
not be fixed on the festival; but how shall it be-done? Said 
Rabh: Two animals shall be brought, and placed side by side, 
and it shall be said: The value of this animal shall be as the 
value of that. We have learned also in a Boraitha: One shall 
not say to his neighbor: I will be a partner with you in this 
animal for one Sela or more; but he may say: I would be a part- 
ner with you for one half, third, or quarter of it. 

MISHNA: R. Jehudah said: (A butcher who sells meat on 
a festival) may weigh it against a vessel or hatchet; but according 
to the sages he may not even look on the scales at all. 

GEMARA: What is meant by “at all”? Said R. Jehudah 
in the name of Samuel: Even to preserve the meat from mice, 
he must not put it on the scales. Said R. Iddi bar Abbin: That 
is, when the scales hang on the lever. R. Jehudah in the name 
of Samuel says again: A butcher who is a specialist must not 
weigh the meat on his hand. He says again: The same must not 
weigh the meat in water. R. Hyya bar Ashi said: It is not per- 
mitted to make a hole in the meat, to use it asa handle. Said 
Rabina: But if. he made it with his hand, not with a tool, it is 
allowed. R.Huna said: One may make a sign upon the meat, 
as Rabba bar R. Huna would cut the meat in the shape of a tri- 
angle for a sign. R.Hyya and R. Simeon the Great used to 
weigh one piece against the other, and they did it according to 
R. Joshua, as we learn in the following Boraitha: R. Joshua 
said: One may weigh one .piece against the other. And R. 
Joseph said: The Halakha prevails according to R. Joshua, be- 


cause there is a Mishna in Tract B’choroth in accordance with his 


decision. 

MISHNA: Knives may not be ground or'set on the festival ; 
but it is permitted to sharpen one knife with the other. 

GEMARA: Said R. Huna: It is only on a whetstone, but 
on wood one may. Said R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel: 
Even on a whetstone it is only prohibited to sharpen, but to 
remove the fat from it one may. We may infer from this, that 
on wood it is allowed. even to sharpen. 

Who.is the Tana who holds that on a whetstone it is not per- 
mitted? Said R.Hisda: It is at any rate net according to R. 


56 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Jehudah, as we have learned in a Boraitha: R. Jehudah allows 
to make on a festival even the arrangements for the preparation 
of food (Sabbath, p. 309). 

Said Rabha to R. Hisda: Shall we lecture in thy name that 
the Halakha prevails according to R. Jehudah? And R. Hisda’ 
answered: It may be the will of the Lord that all good things | 
like this shall ye lecture in my name. 

R. Nehemiah b. R. Joseph said: Once I was standing before 
Rabha, and saw that he took the knife and made passes with it 
over a basket. And I said to him: Does Master intend to 
sharpen it, or to remove the fat? And he said: To remove the 
fat. But I saw that he intended to sharpen it. From this it is 
understood that the Halakha prevails thus, but is not to be pro- 
claimed to the people. Abayi told that the same thing happened 
to him and his Master, Rabba. 

The schoolmen propound a question: May one give the 
slaughtering-knife to the wise for examination on the festival? 
R. Mari the son of R. Bizna allowed this, but the rabbis pro- 
hibited. R. Joseph, however, said: A scholar (Talmud Hakham) 
may examine the knife for his own use, and then lend it to others. 
R. Joseph said again: A knife that becomes blunt may be 
sharpened by pressure, provided that the knife becomes only 
blunt, but not injured. 

R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel said: A spit that became 
crooked must not be repaired on a festival. Is not this self-evi- 
dent? He meant to say, that even with the hand, without the 
aid of tools, it is not allowed. The same says again: After the 
meat has been roasted on the spit, it may not be handled more 
(because the blood defiling it makes it unfit for use until cleaned). 
Said R. Adda bar Ah’bah in the name of R. Malkiya: He may, 
nevertheless, take it to put into a corner, the same as it is per- 
mitted to do with a thorn that is seen in public ground. (Sabbath, 
Pp. 75-) 

MISHNA: One must not say to a butcher: Give me meat 
fora Denar; but the butcher may slaughter the animal, and divide 
it among the customers. : 

One may say to another (on the festival), fill me this ves- 
sel, but it must not be a vessel appropriated to measure with. 
R. Jehudah says: If a measure is used it must not be quite 
filled. Abba Saul b. Batnit used to fill his measures on the day 
before the festival, and delivered them to the customers on the 
festival. The same Saul said : One may do so even on the inter- 





4 


TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 57 


mediate days, on account of the froth in the measure. The 
sages, however, say: One may do so also on week-days in order 
to let out the entire contents of his measure into the vessels of 
his customers. 

GEMARA: What is meant by “ vessel appropriated to meas- 


ure with”? Said Rabha: That is, he shall not mention the kind 


of measure, but if the vessel is a measure he may doso. And 
R. Jehudah comes to teach that even this must not be done. From 
this we see that, about the enjoyment of the festival, R. Jehudah 
is more rigorous, and the sages are more lenient ; but did we not 
learn in the Mishna about the'scales (p. 55), that R. Jehudah is 
more lenient and the sages are more rigorous? And this would 
be a contradiction to that teaching? It presents no difficulty. 
The above Mishna referred to a thing which was not a weight, 
but this speaks of a vessel that is a measure. This reconciles 
the contradiction between one teaching of R. Jehudah and the 
other. And as regards what sages teach about the scales? 
They merely say that a man shall not do as is usually done on 
week-days, but here he does not do as on week-days, because it is 
not usual that a man should give wine to his guest to drink from 
a measure. 

“ Abba Saul 6. Batnit,” etc. A Boraitha taught : One may do 
it in the intermediate days to prevent interruption in the house of 
learning (if he will busy himself with the measuring, he will fail to 
go to the college). 

The rabbis taught: Abba Saul collected three hundred pitch- 
ers of wine barely from the froth of the measures ;* and his col- 
leagues collected the same amount from what remained in the 
measures after emptying them for the customers. Both brought 
this wine to the treasurers of charity at Jerusalem. The treasur- 
ers said to them: It is not necessary for you to do so (because it 
is your own). But they replied: We do not wish to use (because 
we do not consider it ours), And the treasurers rejoined: If 
you are so rigorous towards yourselves, go and dispose of it for 
the benefit of the people. 





* Rashi explains thus : It was known to him how many lugs there had been in his 
barrel, and also how many he sold out to his customers, and the remaiader which was 
in the barrel he considered was left because of the froth of the measures, and during 
the year it amounted to three hundred pitchers. And his colleagues who sold oil, 
which makes no froth, collected the same number from the remainder of the measures, 
as there is always some oil left in them, and during many years they collected from 
this the same amount. 


58 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


R. Hisda accompanied Rabbana Ugba, and the latter lectured: 
One must not measure barley to give it to cattle; but one may 
nevertheless take a Kab full, or two Kabs, and give it to the cat- 
tle without fear. But the baker (cook) may measure the quantity 
of spices for putting into the pots, lest he spoil the flavors. 

R. Jeremiah bar Abba in the name of Rabh said: A woman 
may measure the flour on a festival for her dough, for the pur- 
pose of separating a due share of the first dough. Samuel, how- 
ever, prohibited to do so. But did not the disciples of Samuel 
teach in his name that it is allowed? Said Abayi: Now, when 
the disciples declared in his namé that it is permitted, and from 
himself it was heard that it is not, we may assume that he re- 
tracted his decision in order to teach us how to act. 

The rabbis taught: One must not resieve flour on the festi- 
val; but R. Papias and R. Jehudah b. Bthera both permit it. All 
agree, however, that if. some dust or a chip fell into the flour, 
that may be done. One disciple taught in the presence of 
Rabina that if a chip has fallen into it, he shall remove. it 
with the hand. And Rabina rejoined that this is by an a 
fortiort argument, not allowed, because it looks as though he 
sifts it. 

Rabha bar R. Huna the Minor lectured at the gate of Nehar- 
dai: One may resieve flour on the festival. Said R. Na’hman to 
the people of Nehardai: Go and tell Abba, Take thy favor.and 
put it on the thorns (z.e., he did not any good with his lecture). 
Go and see how many sieves are used in Nehardai-on the festi- 
val (even before his lecture). 

The wife of R. Joseph has sifted flour on the back of a sieve, 
and he said to her: See, I want to have good bread (it means, 
you should not make any change). The wife of R. Ashi sifted 
the flour on the back of the table (to show a change from the 
week-days). Said R. Ashi: My wife is the daughter of Rami bar 
Hama, who was very particular in his deeds, and if she had not 
seen it done in the house of her father, she would not do it: 

MISHNA: One may go to a shopkeeper with whom one is 
used to deal, and say to him : ‘Give me so many: eggs or nuts,” 
because the master of a house is used to count similar articles by 
numbers. ; 

GEMARA: The rabbis taught: One may go to his shepherd 
who is an acquaintance, and ask him for one goat or one sheep; 
to his butcher, to ask him for a shoulder or leg; to the bird- 
seller, and ask him for one old or young pigeon, to his baker, and 





RS Fees ¥ 


ay Lie ie a 


of 


“any num 


_R. Simeon b. Elazar said: Provided one does not 


“ah FN 


e | 





CHAPTER IV. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE CARRYING AND HANDLING OF THINGS 
ON THE FESTIVAL. 


MISHNA: If one has to transport jars of wine from one 
place to another (on a festival) he must not carry them in a bas- 
ket or a case, but on the shoulder, or in his hand in front of his 
person. The same is the case when he has to carry straw; he 
must not put the bundle on the shoulder behind, but must carry it 
in his hand. One may commence to take a heap of straw (for 
fuel), but not of stacks of wood in an unused yard behind the 
house. 

GEMARA: A Boraitha taught: If it is impossible to change 
the manner usual on week-days, it may be done as ordinarily. 

Rabha has ordered in Mehuzah as follows: “A heavy burden 
which a man carries on a week-day with great trouble, if he has 
to bear it on a festival, he may carry it with the help of a Rigla 
(a long, crooked pole for bearing burdens), and though it is 
also heavy and a trouble, it is a change of the manner, on week- 
days. And what one man carries on week-days with the help of 
a Rigla, two men shall carry. The burden which two men carry 
ona pole on their shoulders, they shall carry on a festival with 
the hand, and what is carried with the hand, shall on the festi- 
val be carried with a cloth.” All this shall be done, if possible ; 
but if it is impossible, it shall be carried as usually, because the 
Master said: If it is impossible to change the manner it is 
allowed. 

Rabha bar R. Hanin said to Abayi: A Mishna teaches: It is 
prohibited to clap with the hands, strike on the hips, and to 
dance on a festival. Andin our time we see people do so, and 
we do not say to them anything. And he answered: And 
according to your theory, come and see the women who take 
their cans and go and stand at the gates of the entry, which is 
also prohibited, and we say nothing to them (would you also 
blame us for this?). This is not so (because it is a rule). Let 








TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 61 


Israel do things unintentionally rather than intentionally (zc., 
they were sure that if it was told to them, they would not listen, 
and to preserve them from conscious transgression, they keep 
silence). And there is no difference in such a case between 
a biblical and a rabbinical prohibition. Because the adding from 
the eve of the Day of Atonement to the Day of Atonement (about 
half an hour) is biblical, nevertheless we see women eating and 
drinking till dark, and we say nothing. 

“ But not of stacks of wood,” etc. R. Kahana said: From 
this it may be inferred that we must not commence to take of a 
whole store (stock storehouse), because it is “ designated.” Then 
it would be according to R. Jehudah, who holds the theory of 
Muktzah. How then would be explained the beginning of the 
Mishna, that one may begin to take of a heap of straw, that 
would be according to R. Simeon, who does not hold the theory 
of Muktzah? The Mishna refers to spoiled straw (which is no 
longer fit for food of animals). But it may yet be used for bricks? 
It refers to a case when there were thistles (or thorns) in the straw. 

MISHNA: Wood may not be taken from a booth, but the 
pieces lying by may be used. 

GEMARA: R. Hyya bar Joseph taught before R. Johanan 
the following Boraitha: Wood must not be taken from a booth, 
but only the pieces lying near it. R. Simeon, however, permits 
it. But all agree that from a booth made for the Festival of 
Tabernacles it must not be taken ¢hen. If the booth was made 
conditionally, all must be done according to the condition. 

It has been said: R. Simeon permits it. But did he not de- 
molish a tent? Said R. Na’hman bar Itz’hak: The case is when 
the tent is already demolished, or so weak as to fall down soon, 
so that even on the preceding day he had the intention to take 
wood of it. 

The Boraitha states: If the booth was made conditionally, etc. 
Can then acondition affect it? Did we not learn in Succah (p. 10), 
that R. Shesheth said in the name of R. Aqiba: that the wood 
of the Succah is prohibited in all the seven days at all events? 
This part of the Boraitha means an ordinary booth, not a taber- 
nacle. 

MISHNA: One may bring wood from the field when it is 
a stack, and from a wood-shed, even of the dispersed ‘pieces of 
wood. What is called a wood-shed? If it is near the city. So 
is the decree of R. Jehudah. R. Jose, however, said: If there is 
a door which can be locked, even if it is within the legal limit. 


62 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


GEMARA: R. Jehudah said in the name of Samuel: Wood 
may be brought only from the stacks that are in the wood-shed, 
but not dispersed pieces. Did not our Mishna teach that from a 
wood-shed may be taken even dispersed pieces? The Mishna is 
only according to an individual Tana, but the other sages differ 
from it. Rabha said: Leaves of a vineyard or of branches, 
although they are gathered and lie together, because by a wind 
they may be dispersed, are to be considered as dispersed already, 
and may not be used. But if one had put a heavy ching on 
them the preceding day, they may ‘be used. 

“ What ts called a wood-shed,” etc. The schoolmen propound 
a question: Did the Mishna mean both? Did it mean that. it is 
near the city and has a door, and R. José comes to teach if it has 
a door it is enough, if it is not near the city, but within the legal 
limit, or when it has no door, even near to a city, also not? 
Come and hear: Because R. Jose teaches that if it can be entered 
through a door, and the door can be locked, it is allowed even 
within the legal limit, we may infer that R. Jose decides in both 
cases leniently. Said R. Sala‘in the name of R. Jeremiah: The 
Halakha prevails according to R. Jose, leniently. | 

MISHNA:: It is not permitted to cut wood from new beams, 
even from an old beam that was broken on the festival ; neither 
may wood be cleft with an axe, or saw, or bite-hook, but with a 
chopping-knife only. 

GEMARA: Has not the first: part of the Mishna said that we 
must not cut wood at all? Said R. Jehudah in the name of 
Samuel: The Mishna is not completed, and must be read thus: 
It is not allowed to cut froma’ pile of: logs, neither from'a beam 
that was broken on the festival; but from a beam that was broken 
the preceding day: And when they cut it, they shall not do it 
with an axe, etc. The same we have learned in the following 
Boraitha: One may not cut wood froma pile of beams, nor from 
a beam broken on the festival, because they are not considered 
prepared while it is yet day. 

“ But with a chopping-knife only.’ . Said Ri Hinna bar Salmia 
in the name of Rabh: It is onlywith the side of the blade used 
for chopping wood, but with the broad side wherewith one can 
cleave beams, it is not allowed.* 





*It-is difficult to understand the argument, as it is. not. known to us how the 
chopping-knife was made. Even Tospheth remarks because we do not know what 
kind of a chopping-knife it was, therefore it is not allowed to cut wood with any 
knife, only with the hand. 








TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 63 


MISHNA: A house filled with fruits, if a hole was made, it 
is allowed to take fruit through this hole. R. Meir, however, said 
one may make a hole in the house, to commence with, for the 
purpose of taking the fruit. 

GEMARA: Why so? Is he not demolishing a tent? Said 
R. Nehuma bar Adda in the name of Samuel: The Mishna refers 
to a house of bricks without mortar. R.Zera said: R. Meir 
allowed this only on a festival, but not on Sabbath. The same 
we have learned plainly in a Boraitha. Samuel said: If the doors 
of the cellars are tied with ropes, one may untie; but he may not 
untwist the ropes themselves, nor cut them off. When, however, 
with such ropes vessels were tied, he may untwist them and cut 
them off, and there is no difference between Sabbath and a festi- 
val in this case. 

An objection was raised from the following Boraitha: If the 
doors of the cellars are tied with ropes, on Sabbath, one may 
untie, but he may not untwist the:ropes themselves, nor cut. them 
off. Ona festival, however, all this is allowed? The Boraitha is 
according to R. Meir, who allows this on.a festival to commence 
with, but I say according to the rabbis. But did the rabbis 
differ with R. Meir that if the doors of the cellars, etc.? Have 
we not learned in another Boraitha, that the sages agree with R. 
Meir'concerning this case? Samuel holds with another Boraitha 
which stated differently. 

MISHNA: It is not permitted to make a cavity in a lump of 
potter's clay for the purpose of using it as'a lamp, because a 
utensil is thereby formed; neither may charcoal be made on a 
festival, nor the wick of a lamp be cut in two. R.Jehudah says: 
With fire it may be done. 

GEMARA: Who is the Tana who holds that when:a hole is 
made in such a lump it is called a utensil? Said R. Joseph: 
That is R. Meir (who states so in Tract Kelim). 

The rabbis taught: One must not make a hole in a lump of 
clay to use it as a lamp, nor plates. used by rustics (who are not 
particular about fine china, but use them as soon as made, before 
they have been hollowed out and daked in fire).* R. Simeon b. 
Gamailiel, however, allows it. 

(“Neither may charcoal be made,” etc. Is this not self-evident ? 
What use can one make on that day of charcoal? Taught R. 





* The commentators, Rashi and Tospheth, also the dictionaries, try to explain 
this term, but it remains obscure. 


64 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Hyya: The Mishna refers to those who need the charcoal for an 
olearius on this day (z.¢., a machine to heat oil to be fit for the 
body and clothes). Is it allowed then to take a bath on this 
day? As Rabha had explained in another place that it was 
allowed to go to sweat before it was prohibited, so also can 
this Mishna be explained to mean sweating, before the prohibi- 
tion was made (see Sabbath, pp. 71, 72). 

“ Nor the wick of a lamp,’ etc. Why is it not allowed to do it 
with a knife? Because he makes of it a utensil (¢.¢., he makes 
two out of one). Is not the same with fire? Taught R. Hyya: 
R. Jehudah meant to say that the ends shail be placed in two 
lamps, and shall be separated by burning the middle part, (and he 
only kindles the lamps). 

R. Nathan bar Abba said in the name of Rabh: One may 
snuff a wick on the festival. Bar Qappara taught : Six things were 
said about a wick: three rigorously and three leniently. Rigorously: 
One must not commence to braid the wick, nor singe, nor cut 
it in two; and leniently : One may ¢wzs¢ it with the hand, soak in 
oil, and make two wicks by burning the middle part. R. Nathan 
bar Abba in the name of Rabh said again: The rich men of the 
Babylonians are among those who descend to Gehenna; as it 
once happened Sabathai bar Merenus came to Babylon and asked 
them to support him in some business, and they did not ; and he 
asked that they should feed him at least, and they also re- 
fused. Then he said: They are descendants of the “mixed 
multitude,” as it is written [Deut. xiii, 18]: “ And grant thee 
mercy, and have mercy upon thee.” From this we infer that 
whosoever has mercy for creatures, he is surely of the children of 
Abraham our father, but whosoever has not mercy for creatures, 
it is certain he is not. The same says again in the name of the 
same authority: Whosoever is dependent upon the table of his 
neighbor, the whole world is dark for him. As it is written [Job 
xv. 23]: “ He wandereth abroad for bread, (saying), Where is it ? 
he knoweth that there is ready at his hand the day of darkness.” 
R. Hisda said: His life is no life at all. 

The rabbis taught: There are three men whose lives are not 
counted as lives at all: He who is dependent on the table of his 
neighbor; he whose wife dominates over him; and he who has 
bodily suffering. According to others, he who has no more than 
one shirt. 

MISHNA: One may not break pieces of earthenware, nor 
cut paper for the purpose of roasting salted fish on it. Ashes 








TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 65 


from the oven or hearth may not be removed, but they may be 
moved to one side. Two barrels must not be brought near each 
other, to place a pot on them over the fire, nor may a piece of 
wood be used to support a pot, nor a door. Cattle may not be 
driven on the festival with a stick; but R. Eliezer b. Simeon 
permits it. 

GEMARA: Why so? Because he produces thereby uten- 
sils. 

“ Ashes of the oven,” etc. R. Hyya b. Joseph taught in the 
presence of R. Na’hman that if it is not possible to bake in the 
oven unless one removes the ashes, one may do so. It happened 
to the wife of R. Hyya that half a brick from the wall of the 
oven fell down into the oven on a festival. Said R. Hyya to her: 
See to its removal, because I like to have good bread. Rabha 
said to his servant: Roast for me a duck, and see that it shall not 
be singed. Said Rabina to R. Ashi: We were told by R. 
Aha of Hutzl that the Master’s servants, when the oven is 
closed, smear it with clay on the festival. And he answered: 
We live near the River Euphrates, where clay is ready at hand. 
The case is, when he makes a sign on the clay on the previous 
day. Said Rabina: To knead ashes, it is permitted (because 
they cannot keep for a long period). 

“ Nor may a piece of wood,” etc. The rabbis taught: A pot 
must not be supported with a piece of wood nor a door, because 
wood is prepared only for fuel. R. Simeon, however, allows this. 
Cattle must not be driven with a stick, but R. Eliezer the son of 
R. Simeon permits it. Shall we assume that R. Eliezer holds 
with his father, that no theory of Muktzah exists? Nay, he is 
more lenient than his father; for his father would assent that 
they must not be driven with a stick, because it seems as if they 
are taken to the market. 

Hizra (Abhazar in Arabic), R. Na’hman prohibited to use 
for the purpose of roasting on it meat ; but R. Shesheth permits 
it. If it was dry, all agree it is permitted; they differ only when 
it is wet yet. Whosoever prohibits it, does it because it is not 
fit for fuel, and whosoever permits it, does it because in a great 
fire this also can be used. The Halakha, however, prevails thus: 
That a dry one is allowed, but not a wet one. 

Rabha lectured: A woman shall not enter a wood-shed to 
take a crooked piece of wood for a poker; and if a poker was 
broken on the festival, it must not be burned, because fire may be 
made with vessels, but not broken vessels (Sabbath, p. 270). Shall 


66 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


we assume that Rabha holds with R. Jehudah regarding the 
theory of Muktzah? Did not Rabha say to his servant: Roast 
me a duck, and throw the entrails to the cat? With the entrails it 
is different ; because, as they become putrified he made up his 
mind the day before that they must be given to the cat. 

MISHNA: Rabbi Eliezer says: One may take a splinter 
from the wood lying near him to clean his teeth with, and gather 
in the yard small pieces of wood, and burn them, because what- 
ever is in the yard may be considered as prepared for the festival. 
But the sages allow one to pick up only those pieces that lie near 
him, and only to burn them. Fire may not be produced on the 
festival from wood, stones, dust or earth, or from water; nor may 
one heat tiles to broil food on them. 

GEMARA: R. Jehudah said: To food fit for cattle the law 
of making a utensil does not apply (¢.g., to take straw or other 
fodder of cattle, and break it for cleaning the teeth, or so, is per- 
mitted; because, being fit for cattle, it may be handled, etc.). 

R. Kahana objected him: We have learned that branches of 
spice-trees may be handled to enjoy the odor, and to fan with them 
a sick man. One may grind, also, to produce an agreeable odor; 
but one must not break them for the purpose of enhancing the 
odor. If he did so, he is not liable to a sin-offering; but if he 
broke them for the purpose of cleaning the teeth with them, he 
is liable. And he answered: If the Boraitha had said that one 
may not break them for the purpose of cleaning the teeth, it 
would bea great difficulty to me; much more, when it says he 
is liable to a sin-offering for it. The Boraitha must be incom- 
plete and must be stated thus: He may grind with his hand 
for the purpose of odor; he may break them for this purpose, but 
the case is only when they are yet soft. But when they are 
already hard, he shall not break them. If he did so, however, he 
is not culpable, although it is prohibited ; but if he broke for the 
purpose of cleaning the teeth, he is liable to a sin-offering. 

In one Boraitha we have learned, he may break it in order to 
smell it, and in another one—that he must not break it for this 
purpose? Said R. Zera in the name of R. Hisda: It presents no 
difficulty. The Boraitha which allows it means when they are 
soft, and the other one, when they are dry. R. A’ha bar Jacob 
opposed : Why shall dry ones not be allowed? Did nota Mishna 
(Sabbath, p. 332) state: One may break open a cask to cut dry 
figs therefrom, etc.? Furthermore: Rabha and Rabbin, the sons 
of R. Adda, both say: When we were at the house of R. Jehudah, 





TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 67 


he used to break twigs off a spice-tree, and give us sticks of the 
same, although the sticks were so large that they could be used 
for an axe or a spade handle. Therefore we must say that of the 
two Boraithas (mentioned above) one is according to R. Eliezer 
and one according to the rabbis of the following Boraitha: “R. 
Eliezer said: One may take a splinter from the wood lying near 
him to clean his teeth with; but the sages say: He can take it 
only from a manger. All agree that he shall not break it off, and 
if he did so, to clean the teeth or to open the door with it, if unin- 
tentionally on a Sabbath, he is liable to a sin-offering, and if inten- 
tionally on a festival, he is liable to the punishment of stripes. 
So is the decree of R. Eliezer. The sages, however, say: In both 
cases he is free, because this is only a Skduth (Sabbath-rest, rab- 
binically).” Now, the Boraitha which states that he must not 
break it off is in accordance with R. Eliezer, who says there that 
he is liable to a sin-offering; and the Boraitha which states that 
he may do so is in accordance with the rabbis, who say there that 
he is free, even if he broke it off for the purpose of cleaning his 
teeth. Here, however, when it is for the purpose of smelling, it is 
allowed to commence with. But does not R. Eliezer hold what 
is stated in the above Mishna, that one may break open a cask, 
etc.? Said R. Ashi: According to R. Eliezer, the Mishna must 
be explained that the cask was cemented with resin, and it is im- 
possible to use it afterwards as a vessel. 

“And gather in the yard.” The rabbis taught: He may 
gather in the yard and burn, because all things that are in 
the yard are considered as prepared, provided he does not 
make of them heaps. R. Simeon, however, permits even this. 
On what point do they differ? One holds that if he makes 
heaps, it seems as if he prepared them for the day subsequent 
to the festival; but the other holds that his pot proves that it is 
for to-day. 

“ Fire may not be produced,” etc. Why so? Because to pro- 
duce a new thing is not lawful. 

“ One may not heat tiles,” etc. What labor is that? Said 
Rabba bar bar Hanain the name of Rabbi Johanan: The Mishna 
refers to new tiles, that must be examined as to whether they 
can stand fire. According to others, it is a labor because they 
must be heated long, until they become hard. . 

The rabbis taught: New ovens or hearths are considered as 


ordinary vessels that may be handled in the yard; but they must 


not be anointed with oil, nor cleaned with a wet cloth, nor cooled 


63 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


in cold water to harden it. But if all this should be done only for 
the purpose of baking on that day, it is allowed. 

The rabbis taught: The head and the feet of an animal may 
be scalded, also singed. The hair may be removed by fire, but 
not with lime, clay, or earth; nor must it be cut off with scissors. 
Herbs must not be cut out with the same scissors with which 
they are usually detached from the ground. But one may pre- 
pare yzvapa (artichoke) and thistle and bake in a large oven, and 
water may be formed in an “antikhi” (a kind of kettle: see Sab- 
bath, p. 74). A new large oven, however, must not be heated on 
the festival, because it may burst. 

The rabbis taught: One must not blow bellows, but one may 
blow through a pipe. A spit must not be sharpened and fixed 
(for the purpose of roasting). 

The rabbis taught: A cane must not be splintered for the 
purpose of roasting salted fish. A nut, however, may be cracked 
through a piece of cloth, without fear lest that the latter be torn. 

MISHNA: R. Eliezer said again: In a Sabbatical year a man 
may place himself on the eve of Sabbath at the place where figs 
or raisins are kept, and say: From there I will take to-morrow. 
But, according to the sages, he must point out the exact spot, 
and say: I will take from this point to that point. 

GEMARA: In a Mishna (Maasroth, Chap. IV., 2) it is stated: 
If children had saved dates from the eve of Sabbath and forgot 
to separate the tithe, when the Sabbath is over they must not 


eat them until the tithe is separated. Also in another Mishna 


(ibid. III., 1): If one passed dates through his yard to dry them, 
his household may eat of them moderately. Now, Rabba asked 
R. Na’hman: Does the Sabbath fix the time for separating tithe 
even from things the labors belonging to which are not finished 
yet? Shall we assume that because it is written [in Is. lviii.]: 
“Thou shalt call the Sabbath a delight,” it fixes the time of tith- 
ing even for things the labors belonging to which are not finished 
yet, or it fixes the time only for things the labors on which are fin- 
ished and not otherwise? And he answered: Sabbath fixes the 
time in any event. The former said again: Why shall not Sabbath 
be equal to a yard which does not fix the time for things on 
which the labor is not finished yet? Let the law of Sabbath be 
the same? And he answered: We have an explicit teaching 
that the Sabbath fixes the time for the thing in any event. 
Said Mar Sutra the son of R. Na’hman: Our Mishna which 
states that only on Sabbatical years it may be done so, and not 


ee 


See 





TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 69 


in an ordinary year, must also be explained, that because the 
Sabbatical year is exempt from tithe, he may do so; but in an 
ordinary year it must not be done so, because the Sabbath fixes 
it for tithe. When Rabbin came from Palestine he said, however, 
in the name.of R. Johanan, that Sabbath, Heave-offering, a Yard, 
and Price all do not fix for tithe, only in things on which all the 
labor belonging to them is already done.* 

_ Sabbath—to state that the law is not after Hillel in the fol- 
lowing Boraitha: If one transferred fruit from one place to another 
to cut it, and Sabbath overtook him, R. Jehudah said that only 
Hillel prohibited to eat it before separating tithe, but all his col- 
leagues differ from him. 

A Yard—to state that the law is not after R. Jacob in the 
following Mishna, which says that whoso passes dates through the 
yard, his household may eat of them moderately, and they are 
free from tithe. And a Boraitha, in addition to this Mishna, 
states that R. Jacob says tithe must be separated, and R. Jose b. 
Jehudah frees it from tithe. 

Heave-offering—to state that the law is not after R. Eliezer in 
the following Mishna: Fruit of which the heave-offering was 
separated before all the labors belonging to it were finished, R. 
Eliezer prohibits to eat from moderately, but the sages allow 
this. 

And Price—as we \earned in the following Boraitha: Whoso 
bought dates from a man of the common people in a place where 
the majority of gardeners press the dates, he may eat of them 
moderately ; and when he comes to give tithe of them, he may 


separate tithe from it (but it is not necessary to separate heave- 


offering). And from this Boraitha we have learned three 
things: Firstly, that the price which is made does not fix for 
tithe until all the labor is done; secondly, that the majority of 
the common people do separate tithes; and thirdly, that if one 
comes to separate tithes from fruits bought from one of the com- 
mon people, from a doubt lest the seller had not yet separated the 
tithe, he may separate it even from things the labors belonging 
to which are not yet finished. 





* The law of the tithe of all these will be explained in Tract Maasroth, The 
meaning of ‘‘ Price” is, that if the grain was sold before it became ripe, it does not 
fix it for tithe. 


CHAPTER V. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING LABORS PERMITTED AND NOT PERMITTED 
: ON BIBLICAL FESTIVALS, 


MISHNA: It is allowed to throw down fruit (kept on the 
roof for drying) by a trap-door (into the yard) on the festival, but 
not on Sabbath. It is also allowed to cover fruit, or jars of wine 
or oil, with vessels to protect them from rain. One may also 
place a vessel to receive rain on Sabbath. 

GEMARA: Of which quantity does the Mishna speak? 
Said R. Zera in the name of R. Assi, according to others R. Assi 
in the name of R. Johanan: The same quantity which'we have 
learned in the Mishna (in Sabbath, p. 276). One may even clear 
off four or five chests of straw or grain in order to remove obsta- 
cles to instruction, etc. . But perhaps there it is different, because 
there are obstacles to instruction; but here, where it is not the 
case, it may be a less quanity? Or, on the contrary, there the 
Mishna speaks of Sabbath, which is rigorous, therefore a slight 
quantity is allowed. But here it is a festival, perhaps a greater 
quantity is allowed? It can be interpreted even in another way: 
There, where’ there are no damages: of money, a quantity from 
four to five is allowed; but here, where there can be damages 
of money, even more is also allowed? And another question’: 
There the Mishna teaches that one must not clear out a whole 
barn, and Samuel explained this that the Mishna meant he shall 
not clear out the whole barn for fear he will notice pits and would 
like to fill them: up (ibid. 276).. How is the law in our case? 
Shall we assume that because Sabbath is rigorous, the precaution- 
ary measure must be taken; but in the case of the festival, 
which is lenient, it need not be taken? Or, on the contrary, 
there, where although the reason is the fear of interruption in the 
house of learning, yet it is not allowed to clear the whole barn, 
how much the more here, where such a reason does not exist? 
And another question: Here the Mishna teaches that fruit must 
be thrown through a trap-door, and R. Na’hman said in addition 

70 





- 


TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 71 


to this, that it is allowed only from fthat roof; but to throw it 
from this roof to another, it is not allowed. And so it was also 
taught in a Boraitha, that the fruit must not be carried from one 
roof to another, although the roofs are of equal altitude. Shall 
we assume that only in the case of the festival which is lenient 
this is prohibited as a precautionary measure, lest one shall come 
to hold cheap the holiday, and will do other things, but on Sab- 
bath which is rigorous and no such fear exists, perhaps this is 
allowed? Or, on the contrary, as here, where the fruit can be 
damaged, we do not allow this; there, where no such a fear exists, 
so much the more it is not allowed. And another question: A 
Boraitha in addition to this Mishna teaches he shall not let it 
down by ropes and also not by ladders. Shall we say that only 
here, where the fear of the interruption in the house of learning 
does not exist, it is prohibited; but there, where such a fear does 
exist, it is allowed? Or, on the contrary, here, although there 
is fear of damages, it is not allowed, so much the more there? 
All these questions are not decided. 

“And fruits may be covered.’ Said Ula: Even piled-up 
bricks not mortared may be covered. R. Itz’hak, however, said 
only fruit fit for consumption may be covered with vessels, but 
no other things. 

“ One may place vessels to receive rain.” A Boraitha taught: 
When the vessel was full, he might empty it, and put it in its 
former place again; and so repeatedly. The handmill of Abayi 
was exposed to the rain (and he had not enough vessels to pro- 
tect it) He came to Rabba his Master, and asked; and he 
answered: Go and place your bed in that room (where the hand- 
mill was), and then the handmill will be considered as a night 
chamber, which may be removed from a bedroom (and then he 
can remove the bed again). Abayi himself considered the law 
and said to himself: May one turn a clean thing into an objec- 
tionable thing intentionally? While he sat and thought thus, 
the handmill cracked. Said he: I deserve this punishment be- 
cause I was disobeying my Master. 

Samuel said: A chamber-pot and similar vessels may be 
removed, and voided on the garbage; and then washed, and 
returned. The schoolmen who heard this thought that the dirt 
may be removed only together with another vessel, but not 
without another vessel? Come and hear: Once a dead mouse 
was found in the place where R. Ashi’s spices were kept, and he 
said: Take it by its tail, and throw it out. 


72 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


MISHNA: All transgressions of the precept of Shbuth,* 
whether by any optional actions, or actions for religious purposes, 
are also such on the festival. The following actions are forbidden 
on account of Shbuth: To climb trees, mount an animal, swim in 
water, clap with the hands, strike on the hips, or dance. The 
following are prohibited as optional actions: To administer jus- 
tice, to acquire a woman as a wife (by giving a ring, money, etc.), 
to take off the shoes of one refusing to marry the deceased 
brother’s widow (Halitzah), or to marry such a brother’s widow. 
The following actions are prohibited as though they are actions 
for religious purposes: To consecrate anything, to value sacred 
things, to pronounce anything as devoted (to the service of the 
Temple), to separate heave-offerings and tithes. All these have 
been decided to be prohibited on the festival, and @ fortiori on 
Sabbath. (This is the rule): There is no difference between the 
Sabbath and the festival, except that the preparation of food is 
permitted on the latter. 

GEMARA: To climb trees—lest one tear off something; 
mount an animal—lest one should cut off a twig (to drive it 
therewith); to swim—lest one make a swimming bladder ; to 
clap the hands, strike on the hips, dance—all lest one fix musical 
instruments. 

“The following are prohibited as optional.’ To administer 
justice: is this not a religious act? The case is, when there is a 
better man than he who can perform it. Zo acquire a wife: is 
this not a religious act? The case is, when he has already a wife 
and children. The ceremony of Hatttzah and Jibum: are these 
not religious duties? The case is, when there is an elder brother 
than he, and the duty falls on the elder brother. And the reason 
why all these are prohibited is as a precautionary measure, lest 
he come to write. And these are prohibited, though religious acts : 
as a precautionary measure, lest he will come to buy andsell. Zo 
separate heave-offerings, etc.: is not this self-evident? Taught 
R. Joseph: The case is, when he wants to give it to the priest on 
the same day. But the law applies only to things wherefrom it 
is fit to separate the day before; but if he kneads dough on the 
festival, the first dough may be separated and given to the priest. 
All these on the festival, etc.: there is a contradiction to this (in 
the first Mishna of the chapter): “One may throw fruit on the 
festival, but not on Sabbath’? Said R. Joseph: There is no 





* See above, p. 67, 





TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 73 


difficulty : Our Mishna is in accordance with Eliezer: that the 
precautionary measures taken for Sabbath are to be taken also for 
festivals; and the other Mishna is according to Joshua, who says: 
When mother and son fall in a pit, the first may be taken out 
for slaughtering, and then by connivance the other. R. Papa, 
however, said that the above Mishna is in accordance with Beth 
Shammai, and the first Mishna is in accordance with Beth Hillel. 
But perhaps it isnot so? The statement of Beth Shammai refers 
only to carrying out, but not to handling it? Nay, is then 
handling not necessary in carrying out? 

MISHNA: Cattle and utensils may be brought as far only 
as their owners may go, and when a person commits his cattle to 
his son or shepherd, they may not be brought or driven farther 
than the owner may go. Utensils that are appropriated to the 
exclusive use of one among brothers living together in the same 
house may be brought as far as that brother may go; but if they 
are not thus exclusively appropriated to one only, they may be 
brought to the places where all may go. : 

A utensil that had been borrowed since the eve of the festival 
may be carried as far as the borrower may go; but if on the fes- 
tival, as far as the lender may go. And when one woman has 
borrowed of another spice, water, or salt, to make dough, they 
may be carried as far as both may go. R. Jehudah excepts 
water, because its substance does not remain visible. 

GEMARA: Our Mishna seems to be not in accordance with 
R. Dosa of the following Boraitha: R. Dosa, according to others 
Abba Saul, said: Whoso had bought an animal from his neighbor 
on the eve of a festival, although he did not receive it until the 
festival, the animal may be driven as far as the buyer may go. 
The same is the case with him who gives an animal to the shep- 
herd. If thearrangement was made before the festival, but he 
delivered it on it, it must be considered as the shepherd’s? Nay, 
the Mishna can be explained also in accordance with R. Dosa, 
and it presents no difficulty. Our Mishna refers to a case where there 
are two shepherds in the town (when it was not known to which 
of them he would give); therefore it is considered as the owner’s. 
But R. Dosa speaks of a case where there is but one shepherd. 
This explanation seems to be right, because our Mishna teaches, 
“to his son or shepherd.” And as there may be more than one 
son, so is it about shepherds. 

Said Rabba bar bar Hana in the name of R. Johanan: The 
Halakha prevails according to R. Dosa. 


74 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


The rabbis taught: If two men had borrowed one garment, 
one should go in it to the House of Prayer in the morning, the 
other to the Dancing-house in the evening. Thus one will make 
an Erub to the north and the other to the south. Whoso has made 
an Erub to the north may go in this garment only as far as he 
who has made an Erub to the south may go in it to the north; 
and vice versa. But if either has made an Erub a¢ his legal 
limit, so that by giving the right to move two thousand ells more 
in one direction, he loses the right to walk in the opposite direc- 
tion even one step, then the garment belonging to both may not 
be moved from the town by either. 

It was taught: If two men bought a barrel and an animal in 
partnership on the eve of a festival, the barrel may be moved by 
either to places where he goes; but the animal is not allowed to 
be driven except to places where both are allowed to go. So is 
the decree of Rabh. But according to Samuel, the case is the 
same with the barrel as with the animal. (Let us see:) What 
is the reason of Rabh’s theory? If Rabh holds the theory of 
premeditated choice, then why shall the animal not be allowed? 
And if he does not, why shall the barrel be allowed? We may 
say that in reality he holds this theory (and therefore the barrel 
is allowed); but the animal is different, because it was alive at 
the twilight before the festival, and the blood changing its place 
from one member to the other on the festival, neither half can be 
chosen by either man (and as the partners have to go in different 
directions, neither may move the animal), Said R. Kahana and 
R. Ashi to Rabh: Even according to your theory, if the animal 
would be slaughtered, both partners would be allowed to eat of 
it, although the blood was circulating from one half designated 
for one man to the other half of the other man. Consequently 
the circulation of the blood is not feared in case of the law of 
Muktzah. Why, then, shall it affect the law of legal limit? Rabh 
was silent. What is in reality the law? R. Hoshia said: There 
is the theory of choice, and R. Johanan says: There is not. Mar 
Zutra lectured that the Halakha prevails according to R. Hoshia. 

Samuel said: An ox from the dealer may be moved by every 
buyer to the places where he goes; but an ox belonging to the 
herdsman may be driven only where the people of the town have 
a right to go. 

“A utensil borrowed since the eve of,’ etc. Is not this self- 
evident? The case is, when one actually received it on the festi- 
val, we would assume that as at twilight it was yet in the lender’s 








TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). "5 


house, it should not yet be considered as the borrower’s, he comes 
to teach us that the arrangement suffices to make it considered 
as the borrower’s. And this is in support of R. Johanan’s de- 
cree, who said: One who had arranged to borrow a utensil from 
his neighbor on the eve, and took it on the festival, is considered 
as the borrower’s. 

“ But tf on the festival,” etc. Is this not self-evident? The 
case is, when it was the custom of this man to borrow of that 
man often, and we would assume that the lender had the inten- 
tion to give it to him from the eve, and therefore it should be 
regarded as the borrower’s, he comes to teach us this is not the 
case; because it may happen that meanwhile another man may 
come and borrow it. 

“And when a woman borrowed,’ etc. When R. Abba in- 
tended to go to Palestine, he prayed that it should be the will 
of the Lord he should say a thing which should be accepted (by 
those sages). When he arrived there, he found R. Johanan, R. 
Hanina bar Papi, and R. Zera; according to others, R. Abahu, 
R. Simeon b. Pazzi, and R. Itz’hak of Naphha, who were sitting 
interpreting our Mishna, saying: Why, let the water and the salt 
be ignored in the dough? Said R. Abba to them: Would it be 
right, when one threw in one Kab of wheat into ten Kabs of 
his neighbor’s, shall the owner of the nine Kabs take the one 
Kab as his own and enjoy it? (The same shall be the case here. 
Because water and salt are of little value, shall they be ignored ?) 
They were laughing at him. Said R. Abahu to them: Why do 
you laugh? HavelItaken your garments? They laughed again. 
In reality, what is the reason of the Mishna’s teaching? Said 
Abayi: That is a precautionary measure, lest they will make the 
whole dough in partnership. Rabha said: The reason is because 
spices give a flavor, and everything that gives a flavor cannot be 
ignored. R. Ashi said: The reason is, this prohibition is only 
temporary, and anything temporarily prohibited cannot be ignored, 
even when it is among a thousand. 

“ R. Jehudah excepts water.” Did R. Jehudah except water, 
and not salt? Have we not learned in a Boraitha: R. Jehudah 
said that water and salt both are ignored, either in dough or in a 
pot? It presents no difficulty: Our Mishna speaks of Astrakhan 
salt, which is coarse, and must not be ignored, while the Boraitha 
means salt of Sodom, which is fine and is ignored. But we found 
another Boraitha, which says that according to R. Jehudah water 
and salt are ignored only in dough, but not in a pot, because of 


76 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


its wetness (and it imparts a taste to every part). It presents no 
difficulty: One Boraitha applies to a pot where something thick 
is cooked, while the other means a pot of soup. 

MISHNA: Burning coals may be carried as far as the owners 
may go, but a flame may be carried everywhere. If a coal of 
consecrated fire has been applied to profane use, the sin of 
desecration has been committed ; but though no profane use must 
be made of a flame of sacred fire, yet a person who applies it thus 
has not incurred the penalty, and thus, if anybody carries (on 
Sabbath) a burning coal into a public place, he is guilty, but does 
not incur the penalty for a flame. The water of a well belonging 
to an individual may be carried as far as that man may go; but 
if it belongs to a town, as far as the inhabitants thereof may go. 
The water of a well made for the use of travellers (such as those) 
who come from Babylon, may be carried as far as he who draws 
it may go. 

GEMARA: Therabbistaught: Five things have been taught 
about the burning coals: They may be carried as far as the 
owners may go; but a flame, everywhere. The sin of desecra- 
tion applies only to a coal, but not to a flame; it must not, how- 
ever, be used. A coal of idolatry is prohibited to be used, but 
the flame is permitted. Whoso carries a coal into public ground 
* on Sabbath is culpable, and a flame is innocent; and whoso has 
made a vow not to receive any benefit from his neighbor must 
not use his coal, but may use his flame. Why may a consecrated 
flame not be used, but a flame of idolatry may be? In regard to 
idolatry, which is repulsive, and men avoid it in any event, no 
precautionary measure was taken; but to a consecrated thing 
which is not so, it was taken. 

“A well belonging to an individual,” etc. Rabha suggested 
the following contradiction before R. Na’hman: Our Mishna 
teaches that the water of an individual may be carried only as far 
as he may go, and in another Boraitha we have learned: Running 
rivers and springing wells are to be considered as the feet of every 
man (Sabbath, p. 261). Said Rabba: The Mishna refers to a well 
where water is not springing, but collected, and the same was 
taught in the name of Samuel by R. Hyya bar Abbin. 

“ Babylonian travellers”: as the feet of him who draws it. 
It was taught: If one draw it and give it to another man, R. 
Na’hman said it may be considered as the feet of him for whom 
it is drawn; but R. Shesheth says, as his who draws. In what 
point do they differ? One holds that the well may be considered 


SNS Ge aee. 








TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 17 


as ownerless (and if the water was drawn for any one he becomes 
the owner), and the other holds that they are partners. 

MISHNA: If one has fruit in another town of which the 
inhabitants only made an Erub (but not the owner), they must 
not bring his fruit to him; but if he has made the Erub, the fruit 
may be carried to any place he is allowed to go. 

When one has invited guests, they must not carry home with 
them anything from the table, unless he had granted it to them 
the day before the festival. 

GEMARA: It was taught: If one has deposited fruit at his 
neighbor’s house, Rabh said the fruit is to be considered the 
property of the keeper; but Samuel said it is still regarded as 
-the property of the depositor. An objection was made, based 
upon our Mishna: If he made also an Erub, the fruit may be 
brought to him. Now if, according to Rabh, it is considered the 
property of the keeper, what is the use of his making an Erub? 
Said R. Huna: The disciples of Rabh explain our Mishna that 
it refers to a case when they assigned a corner for his fruit (so 
that it is as if under his supervision). Come and hear (another 
objection): “They must not carry home,” etc., “unless he had 
granted it,’ etc. Now, if it is considered the keeper’s, what is 
the use of granting on the day before? The answer is, that 
granting is equal to assigning a separate place, as explained 
above, and if you wish it can be said that the case when granting 
is different. 

R. Hana bar Hanilai suspended meat on the bar of the door, 
and went away. After when he wished to use it he came before 
R. Huna and asked him whether he ‘can use it or not (because 
the meat was brought to him by a butcher out of town, and he 
feared perhaps he brought it from over the legal limit), and R. 
Huna answered: If yourself have suspended it, you may use it, 
but if the butcher suspended it, you may not. 

MISHNA: One must not give drink to, or slaughter, animals 
living wild, but one may do it to domestic animals. And what 
are called domestic animals? When they are at night in the 
town or the suburbs; and those which are in the open field are 
called wild. 

GEMARA: To what purpose are both drinking and slaugh- 
tering stated? It isa thing by the way: it comes to teach us 
that before slaughtering it is good the animal shall drink, because 
it is then easier to take off the skin. 

The rabbis taught: Wild beasts are called those which depart 





78 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


about the time of Passover, and feed in the marshes in the sum- 
mer, and return in the fall; and domestic are called those which 
go out every day beyond the legal limit, but return every night. 
Rabbi, however, said: Both kinds mentioned are called domestic ; 
but which are called wild beasts? Those that never come to in- 
habited places. Does, then, Rabbi hold the theory of Muktzah 
(prohibiting to slaughter even a wild beast)? Did not his son, R. 
Simeon, ask him: Dates which become not ripe on the tree, but 
are put in boxes of palm-branches and remain there till they 
ripen, what is the law about eating them on Sabbath according 
to R. Simeon? And he answered: The theory of Muktzah, 
according to R. Simeon, does not exist at all? (And as we know 
that Rabbi’s opinion was according to R. Simeon, consequently 
he does not hold the theory of Muktzah at all?) Rabbi said to 
the sages as follows: According to my opinion, no theory of 
Muktzah exists. But even in your opinion, would you not own 
to me that the animals which return in the fall must be called 
domestic? And the sages answered: No; in our opinion they 
are still called wild beasts. 


END OF TRACT BETZAH (YOM TOB). 




















CONTENTS. 





Synopsis OF SuBJECTS OF VOLUME VII.—TractT SuccaH, . 


CHAPTER I. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE BUILDING OF A LEGAL Bootu 
FOR THE FEAST OF TABERNACLES, ITS WALLS, AND 
ROOFING, . ; ; ‘ “ : x . ‘ ° 


CHAPTER II. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE SITUATIONS IN WHICH A BOOTH 
MAY BE PLACED, WHAT MUST BE DONE INIT, ETC., . . 


CHAPTER III. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING PALM BRANCHES, MyrRTLEs, WIL- 
LOWS, AND CITRONS USED ON THE First Day OF THE 
FEAST OF TABERNACLES,  , ‘ ; ‘: ¢ ; > 


CHAPTER IV. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE Four KINDS TIED WITH THE 
LULAB, CONCERNING HALLEL, PoURING THE WATER ON 
THE ALTAR, : ‘ . . ‘ ° * ° . 


CHAPTER V. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE ENJOYMENTS AND THE SONGS 
IN THE TEMPLE DURING THE TIME OF THE SACRIFICES, 
AND THEIR ORDER, . Z . ‘ ‘ Seat ‘ 


PAGE 
Vv 


26 


42 


62 















To THE PRESIDENT OF ‘* TEMPLE ISRAEL,” New York, 


DANIEL P. HAYS, Esa. 


In consideration that through his influence, this Congregation is 
the first and unique among the reformed to establish a Succah in 
connection with their Temple, the Editor takes much pleasure in 
dedicating the tract which treats about the Succah, to him, to the 
Rabbi, and all the associates who took part in introducing same. 

Very respectfully, 

MICHAEL L. RODKINSON. 


New York, Tuesday *}¥ MDB, April 25th, 1899. 











SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


VOLUME VII.—TRACT SUCCAH."* 





CHAPTER I. 


MisHNA I. About the legal height and width of the booth which is to 
be used during the seven days of Tabernacles. What was to be done when 
it was higher or lower than the prescribed size? If one has placed four 
poles and roofed them, how is the law? The different opinions of R, Jacob 
and the sages on this point. Whence is deduced from biblical passages the 
size prescribed by the sages? Did the Shekhina descend from heaven to 
earth; and also Moses and Elijah, did they ascend to heaven, or not? And 
in the latter case, how are to be explained the passages which state that 
they did? The ells which are mentioned in the Scriptures, how many spans 
did they contain? When there is a difference in the biblical passages 
between the Massorah (Z.¢., how they are written) and the reading of it, 
what must be considered for practice? Howshall the Succah be consid- 
ered—as a temporary or permanent dwelling ? The booths of potters or 
watchmen, can they be used fora legal Succah? ., ete . I-10 

MISHNAS II. to VIII. How about an old Succah? What is called an 
old Succah ? How about a Succah under a tree, or if a cloth was spread 
over the roof of the Succah? If one Succah was over another? What kind 
of material must be used for the roof of the Succah? How to beautify the 
religious duties for the sake of the Lord, and from what passage of the 
Scriptures this is deduced. If bundles of straw, wood, or twigs may be used 
for the roof of the Succah. The two things which R. Jacob heard from R. 
Johanan and the three things which Rabha bar bar Hana has heard in the 
name of the same, and they could not imagine the real meaning of them, and 
how the latter Amoraim tried to find it out. What Hana bar Abba, and R. 
Hisda in the name of Rabina bar Shila, and Meremar said and lectured 
about the roofing of the Succah. How it is when one wants to cover the 





* See Introduction to Synopsis in Tract Sabbath, Vol. I., p. xxix. ; also note at 
end of Synopsis in Vol, V. 


vi SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


Succah with boards, the size of same, and how they are to be laid. What is 
to be done if small rafters, over which is no ceiling, are to be used for a 
booth. The difference of opinion between the schools of Shammai and 
Hillel, and R. Jehudah and R. Meir, > * ° 7 10-Ig 


MISHNAS IX. to XIII. If one likes to roof his booth with iron spits. If 
one likes to suspend textile walls from the roof downwards. If the roof was 
three spans distant from the walls, How is the case with a court sur- 
rounded by balconies? The law of a crooked wall. If one likes to make a 
Succah in the form of a cone. About a reed mat made for sleeping on, 
whether a Succah can be covered with it; the size of it. A mat made of 
bark or papyrus, if large, may be used for a cover, eS hes ate be 19-25 


CHAPTER II. 


MISHNAS I. to VII. How is it when one sleeps under a bed in the 
booth? About Tabbi, the slave of Rabban Gamaliel, who was a scholar. 
If one likes to support the Succah with a bedstead. If a Succah is covered 
thinly, what must be more—the sunshine or the shadow? If one constructs 
a Succah on top of a wagon, or on board of a vessel. What happened to 
Rabban Gamaliel and R. Aqiba when they were on board of a vessel, and 
the latter made there a Succah. Whether a Succah can be made on the 
back of a camel. Cana living animal be used as a wall to the Succah?. 
How is it with an elephant—a living or dead one? How is the law about a 
partition not made by human hands, if it can be considered legally as a wall 
to the Succah? If one makes a Succah between trees which form side-walls. 
How is it about the delegates for religious purposes—are they obliged to or 
exempted from the duty of the Succah? How is it with a mourner, witha 
bridegroom and his attendants, concerning the duty of the Succah? How 
is it with those who are on the road in the day-time, and those who are on 
the road in the night-time only. How is it with the watchman of a tower, 
or the gardens? How is it with the sick? How is it about those who are 
afflicted? What Rabban Johanan b. Zakkai did when two dates were 
brought to him to taste out of the Succah, and Rabban Gamaliel when a jar 
of water was brought to him when he was out of the Succah; and what 
R. Zadok did when food less than the size of an egg was brought to him out 
of the Succah, A \ . s < . ‘ : p : 26-33 


MISHNAS VIII. to X. How many meals must be eaten in the Succah 
during the seven days? The difference of opinion between R. Eliezer and 
the sages on that point. How they both deduce it from the passages of the 
Scriptures. Ifone makes amends with extra dishes in the Succah, has he done 
his duty ? The manager of the house of Agrippa the king asked R. Eliezer 
about his two Succahs and his two wives, which he had in two different cities 
in Palestine, and what the latter answered. If it is allowed to build a Succah 
in the intermediate days, and what is to be done when a Succah becomes 
ruined during the seven days. Can one fulfil his duties in his neighbor’s Suc- 
cah, or must each one have his own Succah ? What R. Eliezer said to R. Ilai 
when he came to visit him in the city of Lud. What happened to R. Eliezer 
when he took his rest in the booth of R. Johanan bar Ilai in the city of Kisri. 
There was not one tribe in Israel from which a judge did not descend (see 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. vii 


the explanation of it, p. 35, footnote). What happened to the same when he 
took his rest in Upper Galilea, and was asked thirty Halakhas about the law 
of the Succah. What was said of Rabban Johanan b. Zakkai the Master of 
R, Eliezer, of all his habits and customs, and that R. Eliezer his disciple 
conducted himself similarly. About the eighty disciples of Hillel the Elder. 
Who was the greatest of all, and who the least, and what was said about the 
latter. What the Elders of the schools of Shammai and Hillel said when 
they visited R. Johanan b, Hahoronith, and found him sitting with his head 
and the greater part of his body in the booth, and the table was in the house. 
How is it with women, slaves, and minors—are they exempt from the Succah ? 
What shall be the age of a minor to be considered so? What Shammai 
the Elder did when his daughter-in-law gave birth to a son during the 
Feast of Tabernacles. How the Succah shall be used during the seven days 
of the festival as a regular domicile, and the house as an occasional abode. 
How is it when it rains? Where the finest vessels and utensils must be 
kept during the time of Tabernacles, and which of the inferior of them are 
allowed to be kept in the Succah. What R. Joseph did when a wind blew 
the chips of the covering into the dish, when he was sitting in the Succah, 
and what Abayi asked him. What an eclipse of the sun means to the whole 
world. When the sun and the moon are eclipsed, it is an ill omen to the 
enemies of Israel, so maintains R. Meir. On account of four things the 
sun is eclipsed. For four things the property of householders becomes 
BIBI 3 hg ida HO Se ended ee eT ee ay SON} eaas 


CHAPTER III. 


MISHNAS I. to III. The law about the palm branch, the size of it, if it 
was acquired by test or dried, or if it was from a grove. What R. Huna 
said to the sellers of myrtles—what they shall do when they buy myrtles of 
Gentiles. How is the law if a public street is roofed for the purpose of a 
Succah, What R. Na’hman said to the sages when an old woman com- 
plained thatthe exilarch and all the sages of the house of the exilarch are 
sitting in a robbed Succah. Ifa citron cannot be found, can it be replaced 
by a lemon or not? Ifthe point of the citron was broken off. If the leaves 
of the palm branch were torn off. How the law is if the “twins” of the 
Lulab are divided. The prescribed size of a Lulab anda myrtle. How 
many boughs of myrtle? How the law is if a bough of a myrtle has more 
berries than leaves. If it was a 7zapfhtzsapha. If a greater number of 
leaves have dropped off. Ifthe tip has been broken off. Ifa Lulab must be 
tied up, and how it shall be tied together with the myrtle and the willow. 
Of what places must a willow be taken, The difference of opinion between 
R. Ishmael, R. Tarphon, and R. Aqiba about the prescribed sizes of the 
Lulab, myrtle, willow, and citron, What Samuel said to the sellers of 
myrtles, . 3 : s é ‘ ‘ . R ° ; 42-50 

MISHNAS IV. to VII. How is it with a citron which was taken off a tree 
less than three years old? What, if it was of Demai? What is the mini- 
mum size of a small citron and the maximum of a large one ? How is the 
law if a citron has been peeled and gets the color of a red date? Ifit hasa 
hole. How is an unripe citron? What makes a citron unbeautiful? The 
Lulab which must be tied with its own kind only, according to R. Jehudah, 


viii SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


what is to be called its own kind? The objection of R. Meir, who relates 
that the inhabitants of Jerusalem tied a Lulab with gold lace, and what the. 
sages answered to this. What Rabba said to the men who tied the Hosha- 
noth for the exilarch. How to prevent an intervention between the Lulab 
and the other things which are to be tied with it. The myrtle bough used 
for religious duties—may it be smelled, or not? And how is it with the 
citron? With what hands the Lulab and the citron must be handled. Why 
do we pronounce the benediction on the Lulab only? When must the 
Lulab be shaken? How is it to be shaken? What is the law if one is on 
the road and has no Lulab? When is Hallel to be read? Who must read 
it? From what chapters of the Psalms the Hallel is said. What the reader 
shall say, and what the congregation shall answer in the saying of Hallel. 
What verses are to be repeated in Hallel, . ESS Sues . 50-56 


MISHNAS VIII. to XI. What is the law when one buys a Lulab from a 
common man in the Sabbatical year. Is a citron equal to a tree in all 
respects? Does the fruit of the Sabbatical year become exchanged, if it 
is done in the manner of buying and selling ? The Sabbatical year holds 
the money exchanged for its fruits. May both the fruit of Sabbatical year 
and of second tithe be exchanged for wild game, cattle, and fowl, when they 
are alive or slaughtered ? How the Lulab was used in the second Temple, 
and in the country at that time, and what R. Johanan b. Zakkai has ordained 
after its destruction. When the first day of Tabernacles falls on a Sabbath. 
What happened to Rabban Gamaliel, R. Elazar b. Azariah, and R. Aqiba 
when the former bought a citron for a thousand Zuz, and what he did with 
it. What R. Elazar b. Zadok relates how the custom of the men of Jerusa- 
lem was. When the Lulab may be put in water, when water may be added, 
and when it must be changed, At what age a minor has to shake the 
Lulab, to perform the duties of Tzitzith, Tefilin, and his father to teach him 
the Torah, and to read with him the Shema, . : 4 ° ; 56-61 


CHAPTER IV. 


MISHNAI. The Lulab and willow to surround the altar were sometimes 
used on six days, and sometimes on seven days of the festival. The Hallel 
and the eating of peace-offerings took place on eight days, and the pipes were 
played on sometimes five, sometimes six days. In which case was the Lulab 
used seven days? Whence do we deduce this from the Scriptures? Why 
do we use the Lulab seven days in memory of the Temple, and not the wil- 
low? Do the Lulab and the willow violate the Sabbath or not? Can one 
fulfil the ceremony of the willow with that which is tied to the Lulab?, May 
a man go more than ten Parsaoth on theeve of Sabbath? . . 62-66 


MISHNAS II. to IV. How was the commandment to take the willow ful- 
filled in Jerusalem? What was said when they went around the altar with 
the willow? The saying of R. Simeon b. Jochai, that he could exempt the 
whole world from the day of judgment, since he was born till that time, etc, 
Must the benediction on the Lulab be pronounced all the seven days, or on 
the first day only? Shall the benediction of the time be pronounced with the 
Lulab and the Succah, and when? Come and see: The usages of the Holy 
One, blessed be He, are not as the usages of human beings. Can the citron 
be eaten during the seven days, or on the eighth day only? The difference 


a 








SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. ix 


of opinion between the Tanaim and Amoraim, if the ceremony of the willow 
is based upon a tradition of the prophets, or it is only a custom of theirs. 
Must the benediction of the time be pronounced on the eighth day of the 
Tabernacles, which is a separate holiday ? The Hallel and the enjoying of 
the peace-offerings were for eight days. How so? How was the pouring out 
of the water? Why the people called out to him who poured out the water: 
‘Raise thy hand.” Why were the holes of the two silver basins of which 
the wine and water were poured out not equal in size? The saying of R. 
Elazar, that the doing of charity is greater than all the sacrifices. Charity 
is rewarded only in accordance with the kindness with which it is done. 
In three things is the bestowing of favors greater than charity, - 66-75 


CHAPTER V. 


MisHNAS I. and II. The difference of opinion about the music of the 
sacrifices, if it was instrumental or vocal. How pious and distinguished 
men danced before the people with lighted flambeaux in their hands, and 
what they said. After reaching the gate they turned westward ; what they 
said about their ancestors and themselves. The beauty of the Temple 
which was rebuilt by Herod the Great, and the advice which the sages gave 
to him. The beauty of the diuplustin (double portico) of Alexandria in 
Egypt, all that it contained, the seventy-one golden chairs for the Sanhedrin, 
and how all this was destroyed by Alexander of Macedonia. The separate 
places for males and females in the Temple, and how they were changed 
in order to prevent levity. About the lamentation of the death of Messiah 
ben Joseph, and the death of the evil angel. The tradition of the two 
Messiahs, ben Joseph and ben David, and the different explanations of the 
verse Zechariah, vii. 10, according to the believers of the old tradition and 
the believers of the Messiahship of Christ. About the evil angel—how he 
appears in the beginning and how he grows in the nature of human beings. 
What the Messiah ben David will ask of the Lord. The seven names of 
the evil angel. The evil angel is hidden in man’s heart. How he tempts 
scholars more than any one else. How Abayi watched a man and a woman 
who went on the road. What one shall do when the hideousness has 
attacked him. The three verses of the Scriptures which clear Israel on the 
judgment day. Who are meant by the four carpenters mentioned in 
Zechariah, ii. 3? Who are the seven shepherds and the eight anointed men 
mentioned in Micah, v. 4? The four lads who held jars of oil containing 120 
lugs. Was it in all 120 lugs, or did each jar contain so much ? Who said: 
Well be to our youth which does not disgrace our age? and who said vice 
versa? What Hillel the Elder said when he was engaged in the enjoy- 
ment of the pouring of the water. For what purpose the fifteen songs of 
degrees were said by David, What is the meaning of “we belong to God ” 
and “ we raise our eyes toGod”? . - ° : x ; : 76-85 


MISHNAS III. to VI. How many times was the trumpet blown in the 
Temple every day, and how many on the festivals? The different opinions 
of the Tanaim about this point. When was the maximum of forty-eight 
times blown? For what purpose were the seventy bullocks offered on the 
seven days of the Feast of Tabernacles? And for what purpose was the 
one bullock offered [Numb, xxix. 36]? Three times in the year all the 


x SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


twenty-four orders of priests were alike entitled to share the pieces of offer- 
ings of the festival, and in the shewbread, for what purpose? Whence do 
we deduce that all the orders of priests had equal shares in the offerings 
that were said to be sacrificed on the festivals? Ifa festival falls before or 
after a Sabbath, all the twenty-four orders share alike in the shewbread. 
What is meant by before or after? About the order of Bilgah, when Mi- 
riam his daughter becomes an apostate, and what she said when the enemy 
entered the sanctuary, and what was done to the whole order, . 85-92 








TRACT SUCCAH. 





CHAPTER I. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE BUILDING OF A LEGAL BOOTH FOR 
THE FEAST OF TABERNACLES, ITS WALLS, AND ROOFING. 


MISHNA: A booth which is higher than twenty ells is not 
valid. R. Jehudah, however, says it is. One which is not ten 
spans high, one which has not three walls, or which has more 
sun than shade, is not valid.* 

GEMARA: Whence do we deduce this? Said Rabha: It is 
written [Lev. xxiii. 43]: “In order that your generations may 
know that I caused the children of Israel to dwell in booths.” 
Up to twenty ells a man knows that he is living in a booth, but 
higher than twenty ells he does not know, because his eyes do 
not frequently perceive the roof. R. Zera said: From the fol- 
lowing passage [Isa. iv. 6]: “ And a tabernacle shall it be for 
a shade in the daytime from the heat.” Up to twenty ells a 
man sits in the shade of the roof, but if it is higher than twenty 
ells a man sits in the shade of the walls (but not of the roof). 
Said Abayi to him: According to your theory, if one has made 
a booth between two hills, it is also not legal (because there is no 
shadow from the roof at all)? And he answered: What com- 
parison is this? if the hills were removed, he would sit in the 
shadow of the roof; but here, if the walls would be taken away, 
there would be no shade at all. Rabha said: From the follow- 
ing passage [Lev. xxiii. 42]: “In booths shall ye dwell seven 
days.” The Law commands that for seven days one shall 
remove from his permanent. dwelling into a temporary dwelling. 
Up to twenty ells, ordinarily a man makes a temporary dwell- 
ing; but higher than this it is not usual to make a temporary 
dwelling. Said Abayi to him: According to you, if one has 





* See Vol. IIl., p. 1, Gemara, which also belongs to our Mishna. 


2 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


made iron walls, and covered them with a legal roof, would it 
also be unlawful for a booth? Rabha answered: I mean to say 
this: Up to twenty ells, which is an ordinary height for a tem- 
porary dwelling, even if one makes it a permanent dwelling, he 
can fulfil his duty; but over twenty ells, which is the ordinary 
height only of a permanent dwelling, even if one has made it a 
temporary dwelling, it is also unlawful? According to whom is 
the following saying of R. Joshia in the name of Rabh: The 
sages and R. Jehudah differ only when the walls do not reach the 
roof; but if the walls do reach the roof, all agree that the booth 
is valid though the walls be higher #han twenty ells? It is in 
accordance with Rabha, who says that the sages make it invalid 
because the eye cannot reach the roof; but when the walls are 
attached to the roof, the eye is able to do so. 

According to whom would the following saying of R. Hannan 
in the name of Rabh be: that they differ only about a booth less 
than four ells square, but when it is four ells square all agree that 
it is valid? This is in accordance with R. Zera, who says: The 
rabbis make it unlawful because of the lack of shadow, and in a 
booth four ells square there is a shadow. And according to 
whom is the following saying of R. Hannan b. Rabha in the name 
of Rabha: They (the sages and R. Jehudah) differ when the 
booth is only of a size to accommodate a man’s head and greater 
part of body, and his table; but if it is of a larger size, then if it is 
higher than twenty ells, is it also valid? It is not, according to 
any one. An objection was raised: We have learned in a Bo- 
raitha: A booth which is higher than twenty ells is not valid. R. 
Jehudah, however, makes it valid, even if its height is forty or 
fifty ells; and he said: It happened that the Queen Helen, in 
the city of Lud, was sitting in a booth which was higher than 
twenty ells, and the older sages were entering and going out of 
it, and they did not object. And the sages answered him: This 
is not proof. She was a woman, and it is not obligatory for a 
woman to sit in a booth at all. And he rejoined: Everybody 
knows that she had seven male children; and besides this, all her 
acts were only in accordance with the will of the sages. 

Now, it is right according to him who said that they differ in 
a case where the walls of the booth do not reach the roof, because 
usually a queen is sitting in a booth whereof the walls reach not 
the roof, that air may come in; but according to him who said 
that even in case of a small booth they differ, is it customary that 
a queen should sit in a small booth? Said Rabba bar R. Adda: 








TRACT SUCCAH. 3 


The case was of a booth separated into chambers. But is it cus- 
tomary that a queen should sit in a booth separated into cham- 
bers? Said R. Ashi: Yea, the case was that of a large booth 
with chambers, and the sages differ about the chambers. They 
hold that she sat in a separate chamber, but her children were 
sitting in a lawful booth, and therefore the elders did not object ; 
but R. Jehudah said, her children sat with her, and nevertheless 
they did not object. 

R. Samuel bar Itz’hak said: The Halakha prevails that the 
booth must be large enough to accommodate the head, the 
greater part of the body, and a table. Said R. Abha to him: 
According to whose opinion is this? And he answered: It is 
according to Beth Shammai, and nevertheless one shall not deviate 
from this law. R. Na’hman bar Itz’hak opposed this: Where do 
you find that Beth Shammai and Beth Hillel differ about a small 
booth? Perhaps they differ about a large booth, and the case 
was that the man was sitting at the entrance of the booth, and 
the table was in the house. Beth Shammai prohibit this as a 
precautionary measure, lest he incline himself toward the table, 
and then he will not be sitting in the Succah at all, and Beth 
Hillel does not call for such a precautionary measure. And a 
support to this I can bring from the following Boraitha: If one 
whose head and greater part of body was in the booth, and his 
table was in the house, Beth Shammai say it is not lawful, and 
according to Beth Hillel it is. Now, if they differed about the 
size of the booth, it should be said: if one sat in a booth which 
cannot contain more than the head and greater part of the body. 
And another Boraitha stated that Rabbi says if a booth does not 
contain four ells square it is invalid; but the sages say, if it 
contains the space for the head and the greater part of the body 
it is valid? Nay, they differ in both cases, and the Boraitha is 
not complete, and must be read thus: if one was sitting with 
his head and greater part of his body in the booth, and the table 
was in the house, he did not fulfil his duty, according to Beth 
Shammai; but Beth Hillel say he did, and a booth which cannot 
contain more than the greater part of the body and the head is 
unlawful, according to Beth Shammai; but Beth Hillel say it is. 

Who is the Tana of the following teaching of the rabbis: In 
a house which is not four ells square, it is not obligatory to have 
a Mezuzah (a battlement),* and it is not subject to being defiled 





* Deut: xxii. 8. 


4 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


by plagues, and it is retained at the jubilee year in a fortified town 
[Lev. xxv. 29], and a man possessing such a new house must not 
be kept from going to war, and an Erub must not be made in it, 
and it is not counted as a house to combine with the houses of the 
alley, and an Erub (from the courts) must not be deposited in it, 
and it must not be regarded as a house on the border between 
two towns, and brothers and partners do not divide it? Shall we 
assume it is according to Rabbi, not the sages? Nay, we can say 
that it is in accordance even with the sages. Do the sages allow 
a dwelling of less than this size? Only when it is a Succah which is 
temporary ; but a house which is a permanent dwelling even the 
sages agree must be at least four ells square. Then men can live 
in it; but if less, it is not called a house at all. 

If the booth was higher than twenty ells, and one put in 
pillows and feather-beds, it is not considered as made lower 
thereby ; even when he renounces their use for any other pur- 
poses, because we ignore his resolve, as people in general do not 
do it. But if one puts there straw, and renounces it, it is con- 
sidered as made lower; and so much the more, loose earth. But 
if one puts there straw which he does not renounce, although he 
does not purpose to remove it, and also sand, which he does not 
renounce—in that case Jose and the sages differ (Tract Ahaloth, 
Chap. XV. 6). If the booth was higher than twenty ells, and 
from the roofing hung down small twigs, then if they are so 
numerous that there is more shadow than sunshine, they are con- 
sidered to make it lower; but if less than that, they do not make 
it lower. If it was high only ten spans, and small twigs hung 
down from the roof, Abayi thought that if there was more sun 
than shadow between the twigs, it was valid. Said Rabha to 
him: It is an unendurable dwelling, and nobody would live in it. 
(Therefore it is not valid.) 

If it was higher than twenty ells, and one constructed in it a 
bench along the whole middle wall, if the bench is as large as the 
legal size of a booth (seven spans and a trifle), then the booth is 
valid (the whole booth because of a crooked wall); but if he con- 
structed a bench along a side-wall, if from the edge of the bench 
to the opposite wall it is four ells, it is not valid; but if less than 
this, it is valid (because the bench legalizes two walls, the third 
being without the legal limit). If he constructed a bench in the 
midst of the booth, if from the edge of the bench to each of the 
walls it is four ells, it is not valid; but if less, it is valid, because 
of a crooked wall on all sides. If, however, he put the bench on 








TRACT SUCCAH. 5 


one side, then if it is less than four ells of the wall, it is valid 
(because of a crooked wall on one side); but if it is four ells, it is 
not. If the booth was less than ten spans in height, and he dug in 
it a pit to make it ten spans high, if from the edge of this pit to the 
wall is three spans, it is invalid; but less than that, it is valid. 
Why, then, in the case when it is twenty ells high, are less than 
four ells needed to make it valid, while here, when it is ten spans 
high, less than three spans are needed? Because there a wall is 
in existence, and to make it invalid one must have four ells; but 
in the case of ten spans, the wall is not considered a wall at all, 
and to make it a wall less than three spans are wanted (because 
then it is Lavud, z.e., considered as attached to the ground of the 
pit when it would be ten spans high). (See Sabbath, p. 12, 
note §.) 

The rabbis taught: If one has placed four poles and roofed 
them, according to R. Jacob, it is valid in cases when the poles 
admit of partition, as will be explained further, for a booth, but 
according to the sages it is invalid. Said R. Huna: They differ 
only about the edge of the roof. R. Jacob holds the theory of 
Gud Assik (see Erubin, note, p. 6) applies here, and the sages 
hold that it does not. But about the middle of the roof they all 
agree it is invalid. R. Na’hman, however, said: They differ even 
about the middle of the roof. The schoolmen propounded a 
question: Does R. Na’hman mean to say they differ about the 
middle, but about the sides all agree that it is valid? Or does 
he mean to say, they differ even about the middle? This ques- 
tion is not decided. 

The rabbis taught: If one drove into the ground four poles 
and roofed them, R. Jacob said, it should be seen whether each 
of the poles is so thick that if it'would be divided it would reach 
a span on each side (see illustration of enclosures, Erubin, p. 18), 
then they must be considered as enclosures and the booth is 
valid ; but if they have not such a thickness, it isnot valid, And 
this is according to his theory elsewhere, that the enclosures of 
a booth must be not less than a span at each side. But the 
sages said, the booth is not valid unless there are two walls as 
usually ; and the third wall is sufficient, even if it is one span. 

“ Tf less than ten spans.” Whence is this deduced? It was 
taught : Rabh and Mar Hanina, R. Johanan and R. Habiba, taught 
[in the whole section of Moed, whenever these names are men- 
tioned, they put R. Jonathan in the place of R. Johanan], the 
ark was nine spans, and the cover to it one span, together it is 


6 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


ten. As it is written [Ex. xxv. 22]: “And I will meet with thee 
there, and I will speak with thee from above the cover.” And 
we have learned in another Boraitha: R. Jose said that the 
Shekhina never descended, and Moses and Elijah never ascended 
the heaven. As it is written [Psalms, cxv. 16]: ‘“ The heavens 
are the heavens of the Lord, but the earth hath he given to the 
children of man”; but is it not written [Ex. xix. 20]: “And the 
Lord came down upon Mount Sinai’? And the answer is, that 
He did not come down lower than ten spans* from the ground. 
(Now, when He says, “I will speak to thee from above the 
cover,” that means ten spans higher. From this we see that ten 
spans are counted as separate premises; hence ten spans is the 
minimum height of a dwelling.) 

It is true, the ark is nine spans, because it is written [Ex. xxv. 
10]: “ And they shall make an ark of shittim wood: two ells and 
a half shall be its length, and one ell and a half its breadth, and 
an ell and a half its height ” (and as an ell is six spans, the height 
of one and a half is nine spans). But where do we find that the 
cover is one span? From the teaching of R. Hanina as follows: 
Of all the utensils that Moses made, the Law had prescribed 
before the length, the breadth, and the height. In case of the 
cover, however, the length and the breadth are written, but not the 
height ; and we must go and draw this lesson from the meanest 
of the utensils, as it is written [ibid., ibid. 25]: “ And thou shalt 
make unto it a rim of a hand’s breadth round about.” As the 
height of the rim is a span, we infer that the height of the cover 
is alsoa span. But why from the meanest of the utensils—why 
not from the utensils themselves? Because there is a rule, when 
much is grasped at, nothing is grasped ; but when little is grasped, 
it is retained. R.Hunasaid: We infer it from this passage [Lev. 
xvi. 14]: “On the face of the cover, eastward”; if less than a 
span, it would not be called face. But where do we find that the 
distance between the roof and ground should be ten spans? Per- 
haps the roof itself should be included? Therefore we say this 
theory they draw from the Temple; as it is written [in I Kings, 
vi. 2]: “ And the house which King Solomon built unto the Lord 
was sixty ells in length, and twenty in breadth, and thirty ells in 
height ” ; and [ibid., ibid. 26]: “The height of the one cherub 
was ten cubits, and so was the other’”’; and a Boraitha states, as 





* See the article, ‘‘ What is the Talmud?” in our pamphlet, ‘‘ The Pentateuch, 
its Languages and Characters,” for an explanation of this saying. 











TRACT SUCCAH. - 


we have found in the Temple, that the cherubim were a third of 
the height of the house, so also in the tabernacle in the desert 
they were one-third. Now, the height of the tabernacle was ten 
ells, as it is written [Ex. xxvi. 16]: “Ten ells shall be the length 
of each board.” How many spans are in ten ells? Sixty. A 
third thereof is twenty: take off ten, which was the height of the 
ark with the cover, ten is left. And it is written [ibid. xxv. 20]: 
“ And the cherubim shall spread forth their wings on high, over- 
shadowing the cover.” Hence we see that the Torah calls “ over- 
shadowing ” when above ten spans. Therefore we infer that the 
roofing overshadowing the booth must be above the ten spans. 

This would be right according to R. Meir, who said that all 
the ells mentioned in the Torah measure six spans; but accord- 
ing to R. Jehudah, who says that the ells of a building meas- 
ured six spans, but other ells only five spans, what can be said? 
If so, the ark with its cover would be only eight and a half: then 
remain for the cherubim eleven and a half. Shall we say that 
the booth must be high at least eleven and a half? According 
to R. Jehudah the size of a booth is (Sinaic). (As it is said in 
Tract Erubin, p. 5.) 

“ One which has not three walls.” The rabbis taught: Two 
walls must be as usually, but the third one may be even one 
span. R. Simeon, however, said: Three must be as usually, and 
the fourth one may be a span. In what point do they differ? 
The rabbis hold, the bases are the Massorah (z.¢., if we came to 
draw something from Scripture the basis must be the Massorah) 
and as [in Lev. xxiii.] “in booths” is mentioned three times, and 
the Hebrew term for this is A503, NDDD, NIDIOD;* that is, 
two of them are written in the singular and one in plural, and 
from each term in the singular we infer the necessity of one wall, 
and from the term in the plural two, which make four: take off 
one expression intended as a commandment to make booths in 
general, we infer from the two which are superfluous the ne- 
cessity of three walls; that is, two as usually, and the third one 
the tradition reduces to a span in case it is valid. But according 
to R. Simeon the basis must be the biblical words as they read ; 
and as all three read in the plural, we infer the necessity of six 
walls: take off one term as a general commandment, we have 
left four; hence three must be as usually, and the fourth tradi- 
tion reduces to one span. And if you wish, we will say: that all 





*In our Scripture we do not find so, but see the Massorah. 


_—- 


eae THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


agree that the basis must be the Massorah, but the - point 


whereon they differ is, one holds that the first verse, where the 
commandment is written, we also take into consideration to infer 
the necessity of a wall—consequently it is four walls; and one 
holds that the first must not be taken into consideration, and it is 
only three. R.Mathua said: R. Simeon infers his theory from 
the following passage [Isa. iv. 6]: “ And a tabernacle shall it be 
for a shadow in the daytime from the heat, and for a refuge, 
for a covert from tempest and from rain” (ze., if it is not three 
walls, it cannot be a protection from wind, etc.). 

Where shall be placed the wall which is one span wide? 
Said Rabh: One may place it where one wall ends, no matter 
which; it was taught that the same was said by Samuel in the 
name of Levi, and so also it was decided in the college. R. 
Simon, and according to others R. Joshuah b. Levi, said: The 
wall which is a span shall be wide as a span made by the palm 
when extended, and one shall place it at a distance of less than 
three spans from another wall, so that the theory of Lavud 
should apply. 

R. Jehudah said: A booth that was made as an entry is valid 
(the two walls need not be adjacent, but may be opposite, while 
the wall of one span can be placed at any side one likes), R. 
Simeon, and according to others R. Joshuah b. Levi, said: Such 
a booth is lawful only when one places an enclosure four spans 
and a trifle wide, and at a distance of less than three spans from 
the wall, so that the theory of Lavud can apply: then it will be 
counted together seven spans and a trifle, which is the lawful 
width for a booth. Why is it said there that it is sufficient 
when it is wide as an extended span, and here that an enclosure 
of four spans is needed? There, where there were two walls, 
as usually, a span is enough; but here, in which case they are op- 
posite, an enclosure of at least four spans is required. Said Rabha: 
And to it must be added an appearance of a door (on the other 
side). R. Ashi found R. Kahna, who made a third wall extended 
a span wide, and on the other side an appearance of a door; and 
he said to him: Does not the Master hold with Rabha, who 
said that an appearance of a door is sufficient for a third wall? 
And he answered: I hold with the saying of Rabha, as it is inter- 
preted above, that an appearance of a door must be added too. 

Again: “ Two walls as usually,’ etc. Said Rabha: This 
booth is considered private ground in reference to a Sabbath 
falling in the Feast of Tabernacles, so that things may be carried 











—— 


TRACT SUCCAH, 9 


from another private ground into this booth, and vice versa (al- 
though for a legal private ground three walls are needed), because 
as the two walls are considered a Succah, it is considered also 
private ground for this Sabbath. Rabha said again: If one has 
made a roof above an entry which has a side-beam, it is valid for 
a booth.* And the same said again: If one has roofed the en- 
closure of a well (see illustration in Erubin, p. 18), it may be used 
as a booth. 

“ Tf there is more sun than shadow, it ts not valid.” The rabbis 
taught: If there is more sunshine than shadow from the roof, 
but not from the walls. R. Joshiah, however, said: Even if it is 
more sunshine from the walls, it is also invalid. Said R. Yemar 
bar Shlomiah in the name of Abayi: What is the reason of R. 
Joshiah’s decree? Because it is written [Ex. xl. 3]: ‘‘ Thou shalt 
cover the ark with a vail”; now the vail was a partition, and the 
Torah says: “ Thou shalt cover with it”; we may infer from this, 
the partition shall be equal in law to the cover (or roof). And 
what will the rabbis say to the query of R. Joshiah? The rabbis 
explained the expression, ‘ Thou shalt cover it,” that it means he 
shall fold the vail a little towards the ark, so that it shall seem as 
a cover. 

Abayi said: Rabbi, R. Joshiah, R. Jehudah, R. Simeon, and 
Rabban Gamaliel, the school of Shammai, R. Eliezer, and the 
anonymous teachers all hold that a booth must be considered not 
as a temporary but as a permanent dwelling. (Rashi explains 
that it means that it should be possible to turn it into a perma- 
nent dwelling.) Rabbi, as we have learned above, that a Succah 
that was not four ells square is invalid; R. Joshiah, from the 
statement just mentioned; R. Jehudah, as he declares valid 
a booth which is higher than twenty ells; R. Simeon, as he 
requires four walls (three as usually, and one, one span wide) ; 
Rabban Gamaliel, as he declares invalid (farther on) a booth con- 
structed on board a vessel or on a wagon; Beth Shammai, as they 
declare in a Mishna, farther on, that it is invalid if it can contain 
a man’s head and greater part of body, while his table is in a 
house; R. Eliezer, as he declared a Succah constructed in the 
shape of a pyramid is invalid; and the anonymous teachers, who 
declare invalid a circular Succah. 

R. Johanan said: A booth which is made like a lime-kiln (¢.c., 
round), if its circumference is large enough that twenty-four 





* The law of an entry with a side-beam is explained in Tract Erubin, Chap. I. 


ao THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


“ 


persons may sit at the walls, it is valid; but if not, it is invalid.* 
And this teaching is according to Rabbi, who said that a booth 
which is not four ells square is not considered a booth at all. 

R. Levi in the name of R. Meir said: Of two booths of pot- 
ters which are one within the other, the innermost is not valid 
for a legal booth, and is liable to have a Mezuzah, but the outer- 
most may be used as a legal booth, and needs not a Mezuzah. 
Why so? Let the outer one be considered as a passage to the 
innermost, and a passage is not exempt from a Mezuzah? Be- 
cause of both booths the outer one is only temporary, and it is 
exempt froma Mezuzah. 

The rabbis taught: The booths of strangers, made only for 
the summer, booths for women (to make the toilet), booths made 
for animals, or booths made by Samaritans for the feast, and 
everything whatever called a booth is valid as a religious taber- 
nacle, provided that it is roofed according to the Law. What is 
meant, “according to the Law’? Said R. Hisda: If it was 
roofed for this end, what is meant by the saying: “ Anything 
whatever that is called a booth is valid”? To include the booths 
of shepherds, of those who watch dried figs, watchmen outside 
of the towns, and of those who watch fruit (all these are booths 
if they are roofed according to the Law, and are valid for relig- 
ious purposes). 

MISHNA: An old Succah, Beth Shammai hold, is not valid, 
but Beth Hillel hold it is valid. What is called an old Succah? 
One which was constructed thirty days before the festival; but 
if it has been constructed on purpose for the festival, even 
though it be one year old, it is valid. 

GEMARA: What is the reason of Beth Shammai’s opinion ? 
It is written [Lev. xxiii. 34]: “The feast of the booths shall be 
seven days unto the Lord.” From this we infer that the booths 
must be made for the purpose of the feast. And what would 
Beth Hillel say to this passage? They infer from it another 
theory in accordance with R. Shesheth, who says in the name of 
R. Aqiba: Whence do we know that the wood that was used for 
the booths, must not be used for another purpose all the seven 
days? Because it is written: “The feast of the booths shall be 
seven days unto the Lord.” And we have learned in a Boraitha: 





* The Gemara interprets this law by a geometric calculation how much space a 
person needs, and the relation of a circle and a square, with illustrations, which do 
not belong here, and therefore we omit. — 








TRACT SUCCAH. It 


R. Jehudah b. Bethyra said: In the same manner that the name 
of the Lord rests on the feast-offering (and this prohibits the 
eating of the feast-offering till the pieces are offered on the altar), 
so does the name of the Lord rest on the booth, to prohibit the 
use of the material of which it is constructed during the seven 
days. But did not Beth Shammai also infer this prohibition from 
the same passage? Yea, we must therefore say that the reason 
of Beth Shammai is another passage [Deut. xvi. 13]: “A feast of 
tabernacle . . . seven days.” Infer from this that the booth 
must be made for this purpose. And what do Beth Hillel infer 
from the above passage? They infer from it that a Succah may 
be made during the intermediate days also, while Beth Sham- 
mai do not allow it. 

MISHNA: If one constructs his Succah under a tree, it is 
the same as if he made it in his house (under the roof). Should 
he construct one Succah above another, the upper one is valid, 
but the lower one is not. R. Jehudah says: Should the upper 
one not be inhabited, the lower one is valid. 

GEMARA: Rabha said: The Mishna refers only to a tree 
under which there is more shadow than sunshine; but if the sun- 
shine is more than the shadow, it is valid. And I infer this, because 
the Mishna teaches that a booth which was made under a tree is 
as if made in a house, why does it express it thus? Let it say, it 
is invalid? We must therefore assume that it means: As ina 
roofed house there is more shadow than sunshine, so is it also 
under a tree, under which the same is the case. But if there is 
more sunshine than shadow, what is the use, since the branches 
of the tree, which are invalid, will combine with the. roofing of 
the booth to shut out the sunshine, and thus make the Succah 
invalid? Said R. Papa: The case is when one has cut off the 
branches. If they have been cut off, is it not self-evident that 
the booth is valid? One might say, we shall take a precau- 
tionary measure (lest any make it under a tree which has its 
branches) and he comes to teach us that such precautionary 
measures are not to be taken. 

“ One Succah above another,” etc. The rabbis taught: It is 
written [Lev. xxiii. 22]: “Ye shall sit in booths.” We may 
infer, in booths, but not in a booth which is under a booth, or 
under a tree, or in a house. On the contrary, it is written in the 
“ booths" in the plural (that can mean, in this and in that)? Said 
R. Na’hman bar Itz’hak: It reads plural, but it is written in the 
singular, 


12 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


What distance must be between the upper and the lower 
Succah, that the second should be invalid? Said R. Huna: One 
span, as we find this measure in the law of defilement (Ahaloth, 
Chap. III. 7): R. Hisda and Rabba bar R. Huna both said: Four 
spans. The reason is, that we do not find any distance considered 
to be of any significance if it is less than four spans. Samuel, 
however, said: Ten; and his reason is, that as to make it valid it 
must be no less than ten spans, so as make it invalid there 
must be ten spans. When R. Dimi came from Palestine, he said 
that in the west they so interpret: If the roof of the lower one 
could not bear the pillows and feather-beds of the upper one, 
then the loweris valid. From this we may infer that the first 
Tana holds that, although the lower one cannot bear the pillows 
in the upper one, it is nevertheless invalid? We may say that 
the difference between the first Tana and the sages is in a case in 
which the roof of the lower one could bear it, but not easily 
(according to him it is invalid, according to them it is valid). 

MISHNA: Ifa cloth be spread over the (roof of the Succah 
as a screen) against the sun, or below (the roof, inside) to catch 
the falling leaves, or if one spread a cloth over a (four-post) 
bed-tester, the Succah is not valid, but one may spread a cloth 
over two bed-posts. 

GEMARA: Said R. Hisda: The case is if one spread a cloth 
to catch leaves; but if he did it only for ornament, it is allowed. 
Is not this self-evident? Did not the Mishna say plainly “to 
catch leaves”? One might say the same is the case when it is an 
ornament also, but the Mishna mentioned a thing, it is usually so 
done; he comes to teach it is not so. It was taught: That such 
ornaments do not make it lower (if it was more than twenty ells 
high, it is not lowered thereby, or if it was ten spans they do not 
make it invalid). Said R. Ashi: But if the cloth was hung 
before a side-wall, it makes it smaller. It happened once that 
the shirt of Menymin, the servant of R. Ashi, was soaked in water, 


and he spread it on the roof of the booth to dry. Said R. Ashi_ 


to him: Take it off, for one might say, we cover the roof with a 
thing which is subject to defilement. But everybody will see 
that it is wet? I mean to say, that when it will be dry, you 
shall take it off. 

It was taught: If the ornaments of the Succah are four spans 
under the roof, R. Na’hman said the Succah is valid, but R. Hisda 
and Rabha bar R. Huna both say it is invalid. But sages were 
once the guests of the exilarch,and R. Na’~hman made them 








E 
‘ 
. 


TRACT SUCCAH. 13 


sleep in a booth where the ornaments were four spans beneath 
the roof; and they kept silent, and said nothing. Then he asked 
them: Did the Masters retract their decision? And they an- 
swered: We are delegates for a religious purpose, and therefore 
we are free from the duty of a Succah. 

R. Jehudahin the name of Samuel said: One may sleep in a 
nuptial bed, because its canopy is not considered as a roof (being 
slanting) even when it is ten spans high. An objection was 
raised: We have learned, who sleeps under a canopy in a booth 
does not fulfil his duty? There is the case when the canopy is 
not of a nuptial bed, but different, like a roof. Rabha bar R. 
Huna lectured: One may sleep under a canopy, although it is 
like the roof, and high ten spans; and it is according to R. 
Jehudah, who said that a temporary tent cannot make a perma- 
nent one be ignored, as we have learned in a Mishna. R.Jehudah 
said: Our custom was to sleep in the booth under the bed in 
the presence of the elders. But let him say: The Halakha pre- 
vails according to R. Jehudah? If he would say so, one might 
say it is only the case with a bed because it is made to be 
slept on, but not underneath it (and therefore cannot make the 
permanent tent ignored); but in the case of a bed with a canopy, 
which was made for sleeping in, it may be thought different. 
Therefore he teaches us there is no difference. 

MISHNA: If one has trained a vine, or gourd, or ivy over 
the booth, and covered it, it is not valid; but should the covering 
be the greater part of the roof (and they the smaller part), or if 
they had been cut off, it is valid. This is the rule: Everything 
subject to defilement, and not growing from the ground, must 
not be used as a roof to the booth; but everything not subject to 
defilement, and growing from the ground, may be used. 

GEMARA: R. Joseph was sitting in the presence of R. Huna, 
and said: To the Mishna which says, if they are cut off, the Succah 
is valid. Said Rabh: They (the remainder of the roof) must 
nevertheless be shaken (after having been cut off). Said R. Huna 
to him: This said Samuel. R. Joseph turned away his face from 
him and said: Did I say to you Samuel did not say it? I told 
you Rabh said, and Samuel may have said it also. Rejoined 
R. Huna: But I tell you that only Samuel said it, and not Rabh, 
because, according to the latter, it is valid without shaking, as 
it happened once that R. Amram the Pious made fringes [Num. 
xv. 38] on the garment of his wife, but he did not cut asunder 
the heads of the thread; and later, when he came to ask about 


14 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


it, R. Hiya b. Ashi said to him: So said Rabh: The cutting 
asunder of the thread, this makes the fringes lawful. From 
this we see that according to Rabh the cutting off makes it 
valid, though nothing but this was done. And the same is the 
case here also. Cutting off makes valid. Shall we assume that 
the point of difference between the Tanaim of the following 
Boraitha is the same as that of Rabh and Samuel? Namely, we 
have learned in an addition to the Mishna: If a myrtle bough has 
more berries than leaves, it is invalid till the latter are made fewer; 
but it is not allowed to do so on a festival (Succah, Chap. III.). If, 
however, one transgressed, and cut off the berries on a festival, 
the myrtle bough is invalid according to R. Simeon b. R. Jehozo- 
dok, but is valid according to the sages. Now, the schoolmen 
thought the point on which R. Simeon and the sages differ is 
whether the cutting is a final preparation, for they thought all 
agree that the Lulab should be tied together in the beginning 
with the other branches, drawing a lesson from the Succah, about 
which it is said: “Ye shall make,” 2.e., you shall commence to 
make, but not use what is made already. And R. Simeon says 
it is invalid, because he does not regard the cutting as a final 
preparation, and the Lulab, being tied with an invalid myrtle, is 
invalid; but the sages hold the cutting is a final preparation, and 
therefore the Lulab is valid. Hence the point whereon they 
differ is the same as that whereon Rabh and Samuel differ: 
whether the cutting off is a final preparation (and then shaking 
is not needed) or not. Nay, all agree that the cutting off is not 
considered a final preparation, but R. Simeon and the sages differ 
whether the Lulab has to be tied together at all, or not ; R. Simeon 
maintains that it must, and the sages say, it must not; as we 
find in a Boraitha that the sages make no difference whether it 
was tied or not, and only R. Jehudah maintained that if untied 
it is invalid. But according to whom would be the following 
teaching: There is a. merit in tying the Lulab; it is, however, 
valid if it is untied? This is in accordance with the rabbis, and 
the merit is because it is nicer when tied, as it is explained else- 
where that the word [Ex. xv. 2] }73N) means, “ beautify your 
religious performances for the Lord’s sake.” 

“ This ts the rule: everything subject to defilement,” etc. 
Whence is all this deduced? Said Resh Lakish: It is written 
[Gen. ii. 6]: “But there went up a mist from the earth.” As 
a mist is not subject to defilement, and ascends from the earth, 
so also must the Succah be a thing not subject to defilement, 








TRACT SUCCAH. 15 


and growing from the earth. This would be right according to 
those who said that the booths in the desert were of clouds of 
glory; but according to those who say that they were ordinary 
booths, what can be said? Namely, as we learn in the following 
Boraitha: It is written [Lev. xxxiii. 43]: “I caused the children 
of Israel to dwell in booths”: these were clouds of glory, R. 
Eliezer said. But R. Agiba said: They were ordinary booths. 
Said R. Ashi: It is written [Deut. xxi. 13]: “Of thy threshing- 
floor and wine-press.” Of thy threshing-floor, but not the thresh- 
ing-floor itself; from thy wine-press, but not the wine-press itself. 
R. Hisda said: From the following passage [Nehem. viii. 15]: 
“Go forth unto the mountain and fetch olive leaves, and oleaster 
leaves,.and myrtle leaves, and palm leaves, and leaves of the 
three-leaved myrtle, to make booths, as it is written.”’ Are not 
the leaves of the myrtle and those of the three-leaved myrtle the 
same? Said R. Hisda: The myrtle leaves for the Succah, and 
the three-leaved myrtle for a Lulab. 

.-MISHNA: Bundles of straw, of wood, and of twigs must not 
be used to cover the Succah; all of these are become valid, how- 
ever, if the bundles are loosed. As side-walls, however, all of 
these may be used. 

GEMARA: R. Jacob said: I have heard from R. Johanan 
two things which he explained to me, namely: the above Mishna, 
and the Mishna farther on, “ Should one hollow out a space in a 
stack (of sheaves) to use it as a Succah, it is not considered such.” 
Of one of them he says the reason is that it is only a precau- 
tionary measure, lest one make his storehouse for a Succah, 
which biblically is allowed; and of the other he said the reason 
is, because it is written: “ Ye shall make,” from which we infer, 
it must not be ready-made (and this is biblical). But I don’t 
know for which Mishna the reasons are respectively given. Said 
R. Jeremiah: Let us see. R. Hiya bar Abba said in the name 
of R. Johanan: Why is it prohibited to cover with bundles of 
straw, wood, or twigs? Because it may happen a man comes 
from the field in the evening with his bundle on the shoulder 
and puts it on the roof for the purpose of drying, and later he 
resolves to leave it there as a roof to the booth, and it is said, 
“Ye shall make it,” but not have ready-made. Now, as we 
see that the reason for this is biblical, that for our Mishna must 
be a precautionary measure. Then why was R. Jacob doubt- 
ful? Because he had not heard the saying of R. Hiya in R. 
Johanan’s name. Said R. Ashi: What is the difference? Does, 


16 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


then, the law, “shall make,” apply only to our Mishna, and not 
to the other Mishna farther on, or does the precautionary 
measure apply only to the other Mishna, and not to ours? Both 
are alike (and why, then, does he make a difference between 
them ?). R. Johanan can say that his teaching is correct, be- 
cause our Mishna states, they must not cover it; that means, to 
commence it, and it is a precautionary measure, but if he has 
covered, it is valid. But there it is said, It is not a Succah, even 
after it has been covered ; it is even biblically not a Succah. 

Said Rabha bar bar Hana: I have heard in the name of 
R. Johanan three things: If he has roofed it with bundles of 
flax it is invalid, but if with unsoaked flax, it is valid; and as 
for Hushne [meaning uncertain] flax, I am in doubt about it. 
Rabha bar bar Hana added to this: What he meant by Hushne 
flax, I don’t understand. Does he mean, flax soaked and 
dried, but not brushed; or brushed already, but not made into 
bundles? 

R. Hanan bar Abba said: With thorns and weeds a Succah 
may be covered. Abayi, however, said, if they have no leaves, 
one may; but if they have leaves, one must not. Why so? 
Because, when the leaves fall down, this will trouble him, and he 
will leave the booth and go out. R. Gidl said in the’ name of 
Rabh: The roots of a tree may be used to cover with, although 
they are intertwined, because a bundle made by nature is not 
called a bundle. And even if he tied together the extremities, 
he may nevertheless use them, because as at the base they inter- 
twine naturally, the bundle at the top is not considered s-'ch. 

R. Hisda in the name of Rabbina b. Shila said: Branches 
(stalks) of d:ypa may be used for covering, though they are inter- 
twined, because a bundle made by nature is not considered as a 
bundle. And although one ties them together himself, he may 
nevertheless use them, because as at the base they intertwine 
naturally, the bundle at the top is not considered such. So also 
we have learned in a Boraitha: The stalks of dzypa may be used 
as covering. 

Maremar lectured: The bundles they sell out in the market 
in Syria may be used to cover, although they are tied together, 
because they tied them only to know the number. Huts of 
reeds, used by fowlers, if they are untied at the top, may be used 
as a covering for a booth although they are yet tied together 
below? Said R. Papa: One loosens them at the bottom also. 
R. Huna the son of R. Joshuah, however, said: Even if they 


TRACT SUCCAH. ? 17 


were not untied at the base, they also may be used, because a 
bundle that cannot hold together is not called a bundle. 

R. Abba said in the name of Samuel: If of herbs by which 
the sages said a man can fulfil his duty to eat bitter herbs 
on Passover was made a tent, they bring defilement, when a 
corpse or part of a corpse was in it, to all vessels that are in 
the tent; but if a partition was made of them they do not pre- 
vent the defilement to spread further, and if they are used to 
cover a Succah, they make it invalid, because when they become 
dry they crumble and fall. Therefore, even if they are wet, they 
are considered not to exist at all, and in place of a roof an empty 
piece of space. 

MISHNA: One may cover with thin boards, according to 
R. Jehudah, but R. Meir prohibits it. If one has put a deal 
board four spans wide over the booth, it is valid, provided that 
one sleep not under it (the board). 

GEMARA: Said Rabh: They differ only about boards that 
are four spans wide. R. Meir prohibits it as a precautionary 
measure, lest he come to make a ceiling, and R. Jehudah does 
not take this measure; but if they were less than four spans, all 
agree that it may be used. Samuel, however, says, on the con- 
trary: They differ only if it is less than four spans; but if more, 
all agree it is prohibited. If it is less than four spans and even 
less than three (they differ), how can it be? Is it not considered a 
stick? Said R. Papa: Samuel meant to say thus: If it is four 
spans, all agree it is not valid; less than three, all agree it is 
valid. They differ only from three to four; one holds because it 
is not of the prescribed size (four spans), it is valid, because they 
are considered as sticks; and another holds, as it is more than 
three, to which the theory of Lavud cannot apply, we take the 
precautionary measure. Come and hear: Two sheets, if put in 
the middle of the roof, each of which is less than four, but whose 
combined width is four spans or more, make the booth invalid ; but 
two boards of the same sizes do not combine to make it invalid. R. 
Meir, however, said: The same is the case with both. It would 
be right according to Samuel, who said that they differ when it is 
less than four spans ; but if it is four spans, all agree it is invalid, 
because then it would be explained that the combined width 
makes the Succah invalid if it is on the side of the roof (attached 
to a wall), and their combined width is four ells, not four spans 
(for otherwise, if the roof is by the wall, it is valid up to four ells 


because it is considered as a crooked wall continued). But 
2 





18 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


according to Rabh’s opinion, this can be only according to R. Meir; 
but according to R. Jehudah, what can be meant by the expres- 
sion “combined width,” since according to him, if they are less 
than four spans, they are considered sticks? R. Jehudah does 
not mean combined width, but only uses the same cere as 
R. Meir (without a particular meaning). 

We have learned in a Boraitha according to Rabh, and in 
another Boraitha according to Samuel: according to Rabh, if 
one has covered the Succah with boards of cedar that are less 
than four spans wide, all agree they are valid; but if they are 
four spans, R. Meir makes it invalid, and R. Jehudah makes it 
valid. Said R. Jehudah: It happened once, in a time of danger, 
we brought boards four spans wide, and roofed a balcony and 
used it as a Succah, and the sages answered him: A dangerous 
time does not prove. According to Samuel: If one has roofed 
the booth with cedar boards four spans wide, all agree it is in- 
valid ; if less, according to R. Meir, it is invalid; according to R. 
Jehudah, valid. R. Meir agrees, however, that if there was be- 
tween one board and the other the width of a board, one may lay 
between anything fit, and the Succah is valid. And R. Jehudah 
agrees, that if one board was wide four spans, it is valid, but: one 
must not sleep under it, and who does so does not fulfil the duty 
of a Succah. 

It was taught: If one placed the boards on their edges on 
the Succah, R. Huna said the booth is invalid; but R. Hisda and 
Rabba bar R. Huna both said it is valid. It happened once R. 
Na’hman came to Sura: R. Hisda and Rabba bar R. Huna vis- 
ited him and asked him the law about the boards in question, 
and he said: They are considered as iron spits, and certainly 
invalid. Said R. Huna to them: Did I not tell you that R. 
Na’hman agrees with me? And they answered him: Did the 
Master explain to us the reason of this, and we did not accept 
it? Rejoined R. Huna: Did you ask me for the reason, and I 
did not tell it to you? 

MISHNA: If small rafters, over which is no ceiling, are to 
be used for a booth, R. Jehudah says: Beth Shammai hold, the 
rafters must be loosened, and the middle one out of every three 
removed. But Beth Hillel hold: One must either loosen them, 
or else remove one of every three. R. Meir says: One must 
remove one out of three, but one need not loosen. 

GEMARA: It is right according to Beth Hillel, as their rea- 
son is because it is written: “Ye shall make,’ and not have 








TRACT SUCCAH. 19° 


ready-made. Hence either of the two is sufficient. But what is 
the reason of Beth Shammai? If the reason is the same, why 
must he do both? Is not one sufficient? It is asa precaution- 
ary measure, and Beth Shammai meant to say thus: Although 
one has loosened, it is not valid until he removes one of every 
three. If.it is so, then Beth Shammai said the same as R. Meir. 
R. Meir meant to say, Beth Shammai and Beth Hillel did not 
differ, if one has removed same, though they were not loosened. 

MISHNA: If one roofs his booth with iron spits, or with 
boards of a bedstead, if there is as wide a space between them 
(covered with anything fit) as one of them, it is valid. If one 
should hollow out a space in a stack (of sheaves) to use it as a 
Succah (although of the prescribed size), it is not considered as a 
Succah at all. 

GEMARA: Shall we assume that the decision of R. Huna 
the son of R. Joshuah, who says, that if the open spaces of a 
fence equal the fence proper it is not valid (Erubin, p. 35), con- 
tradicts this Mishna? R. Huna can explain the Mishna, that it 
means an interspace a trifle wider than the spit or board itself, so 
as to allow it to be taken out and replaced without difficulty. 
But can it not be made precisely to fit? (Rashi explains this 
question thus: At the first glance the answer of R. Huna is that, 
whenever the thing is mentioned to be of the same width, it is 
meant to be a trifle less wide, so as to be removed without diffi- 
culty: and to.this comes the question, why should it be so made? 
can it not be made to fit precisely? And to this question the 
answer of R. Ammi will be farther on. But Tospheth oppose 
to this another explanation, which is still more complicated, and 
we have therefore translated the text literally.) Said R. Ammi: 
Yea, but this Mishna means, it is only valid then, when it is a 
trifle more.. Rabba, however, said: The Mishna can be explained 
even if it was precisely; but if it was-laid lengthwise, it should 
be placed crosswise, and vice versa (and above them the lawful 
roofing, so that the fit must be more than the unfit roofing, and 
thus the fit portion above neutralizes the unfit portion below). 

“ With boards of a bedstead.” Shall we assume that this is a 
support to R. Ammi bar Tibiumi, who said that if one covered 
the Succah with broken utensils it is invalid? Nay, the Mishna 
can be explained as R. Hanan said in the name of Rabbi. If 
the side-board of the bedstead was laid with two short boards, or 
two short boards with the side-board, which is subject to defile- 
ment (as will be explained, Kelim, Chap. XIX.9). What is meant 


20 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


by broken utensils? Said Abayi: Remnants of silken togas, 
that measure less than three fingers square, and are of no value to 
either rich or poor (Sabbath, p. 272). We have learned in a 
Boraitha in accordance with R. Ammi bar Tibiumi: The remain- 
ders of a mat of bark or reeds, although they are less than of the 
prescribed size to be subject to defilement, must not be used to 
cover a Succah. A mat of sticks, if it is large, may be used to 
cover it (because a large one is only made for a covering, and is 
not a utensil subject to defilement); but if small, it may not. R. 
Eliezer, however, said, that even a snide ih one is subject to defile- 
ment, and may not be used. 

“Tf one should hollow,” etc. R. Huna said: The case is, 
when there is no hole of the size of one span in length by seven 
in width; but if there was, it isa Succah.* We have learned so 
also in a Boraitha: If one hollows out a space in a stack to use it 
as a Succah, it is a Succah. And this Boraitha must be explained 
as the decree of R. Huna to prevent the contradiction to our 
Mishna. 

MISHNA: If one suspends textile walls from the roof down- 
wards, if they do not reach the ground within three spans, it 
is invalid. If they stand on the ground and are high ten spans, 
it is valid. R. Jose, however, said: Even when the walls do not 
reach the ground by more than three spans the law of ten spans 
applies to both cases (and in either case it is valid). 

GEMARA: On what point do they differ? One holds that a 
hanging partition makes the Succah valid, and the other that it 
does not. We have learned in the Mishna in Erubin, Chap. VIII. 
p.206,concerning a wall that was between two courts and a partition 
was made, and R. Jehudah said there: The partition is not more 
effectual than the wall which is between them. Said Rabba bar 
bar Hana, in the name of R. Johanan: R. Jehudah’s decree there 
is of the same system as R. Jose’s in our Mishna, who says that a 
hanging partition makes valid. In reality, however, it is not so. 
R. Jehudah does not agree with R. Jose, and vice versa. Because 
R. Jehudah, who allows it there, does so because Erubin of the 
courts are rabbinical; but here, in the case of the Succah, which 
is biblical, he would not allow it. And, on the contrary, R. Jose, 





* The reason is because a hole of a span constitutes a legal tent in the law of 
defilement, and the covering above it is called roofing. Now, if one enlarged this 
hole to the size prescribed for a Succah, from the base upwards, so that he diminished 
the covering, he is considered to have made a new roofing and thus a new tent for 
this purpose, and it is a valid Succah, (Rashi.) 








TRACT SUCCAH. 21 


who allows it here, does it because the Succah is only a positive 
commandment; but concerning Sabbath, where there is a capital 
punishment, he would not allow it. And if it be asked, What 
happencd in Ziporeth (which will be related farther on), accord- 
ing to whose opinion was it? Not according to R. Jose, nor in 
accordance with R. Jehudah, but according to R. Ishmael bar 
Jose. Namely: When R. Dimi came from Palestine, he told 
that it happened once (in Ziporeth) that they had forgotten to 
bring the holy scrolls on the eve of Sabbath, and on the morrow 
they put sheets on the pillars and brought the holy scrolls, and 
read them (and these hanging partitions were made at the com- 
mand of R. Ishmael). ; 

R. Hisda in the name of Abimi said: A mat which is large 
four spans and a trifle can be used as a side-wall to the Succah. 
How shall it be placed? It shall be hung in the middle, less 
than three spans from the ground, and less than three spans from 
the roof, because we apply the law of Lavud to both places. Is 
not this self-evident? One may say that two Lavuds in one 
case do not apply, he comes to teach us that we may. 

MISHNA: If the roof is three spans distant from the walls, 
the Succah is invalid. If the roof of a house was broken, and it 
was covered, then if there are four ells between the wall and the 
covering, it is invalid; but if less it is valid. The same is the 
case with a court surrounded by balconies. If the top of a large 
Succah was covered with something unfit, if it is distant four ells 
it is not valid. 

GEMARA: Rabha said: I once found the rabbis of the col- 
lege sitting and declaring: Air makes the Succah invalid with 
three spans, but unfit covering makes it invalid only with no less 
than four ells; and I said to them: Where do you find that air 
makes invalid with three spans? In our Mishna, which teaches 
if the roof was at a distance of three spans it is invalid? Then, 
learn also from it that unfit covering should not make the Succah 
invalid if it is less than four e//s ? as it teaches farther on, that a 
house whose roof was broken, and it was covered in the middle, 
if there is from the covering to the wall four ells, then it is in- 
valid? And they answered: Leave alone this teaching, because 
Rabh and Samuel both said that this teaching is only because we 
consider it as a crooked wall. And I rejoined: If it is so, what 
would be according to your opinion? If there would be air less 
than three spans, and unfit covering less than four ells, in the 
same place, it certainly would be valid; but if one covered the 


22 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


vacant space with iron spits, it would make it invalid. Now, the 
air, which is so rigorous that it makes invalid by three spans, will 
not be equal to an invalid covering which is so lenient that it makes 
invalid only by four ells? And they said to me: And according 
to your theory, that unfit covering makes invalid only when it is 
four ells, how would the case be if empty air less than three spans 
were added to it? Would it not be valid? But if one puts iron 
spits over the empty place, would it not make it invalid? Now, 
then, does not the same question apply. to your theory also? 
And I rejoined again: What comparison is this? In my opinion, 
unfit covering makes invalid with four ells, because that is the pre- 
scribed quantity, and the same is with air; and as both quantities 
are not equal, they do not combine together to make the Succah 
invalid. But according to your opinion, that the reason is not 
because it is a prescribed quantity, but because the roof is sep- 
arated from the wall, then the question is, what is the difference 
whether it be separated from the wall by air less than three spans 
and unfit covering, or by iron spits and unfit covering? Said 
Abayi to him: And even according to the Master’s opinion, that 
because the quantities are not equal they do not combine, this 
can be said only of a large Succah, where unfit covering makes 
not invalid unless it is four ells; but in a small Succah, where 
unfit covering makes it invalid with three spans, are not the 
quantities then equal? Consequently they must combine, even 
in alarge Succah. Answered Rabha: In a small Succah it is not 
because the prescribed quantities are equal, but because the pre- 
scribed size for a Succah does not remain. 

Abayi said: If there was air three spans wide in a large Suc- 
cah, and one diminished it by sticks or iron spits, it is considered 
as diminished; but if it was a small Succah, if with sticks it is 
lawful, but with iron spits it is not. But this is the case only 
when it is near the wall. If in the middle of the roof, however, 
R. A’ha and Rabina differed: According to one, the law of 
Lavud applies also.in the middle, and according to the other it 
can only be applied when they are at the side. 

R. Jehudah bar Ilai lectured: If the roof of a house was bro- 
ken, and one covered it with fit covering, it is valid for a Succah. 
Said R. Ishmael bar Jose to him: Rabbi, explain your decision, 
because my father had explained thus: If it is less than four ells 
from the wall, then it is valid; but if four or more, it is invalid. 
Again lectured the same: An abruma (a small fish not distin- 


Sd 


guishable from prohibited reptiles) is permitted. Said R. Ish- - 








TRACT SUCCAH, 23 


mael to him: Rabbi, explain the decision, for so said my father: 
From one place it is permitted, from another it is not. Accord- 
ingly, Abayi said: The small fish called Tza’hntha (smelt), of the 
river Bab, are permitted (and from another not). 

It was taught: If one has covered a balcony which has small 
pillars (less than three spans one from the other), it is valid for a 
Succah: but if it has no pillars, Abayi said it is valid, because 
the edge of the roof downward. may be considered as making 
(forming) a wall; but Rabha said it is invalid, because he does 
not hold this theory. Said Rabha to Abayi: According to thee, 
who holdest this theory, even if the middle wall of the Succah was 
broken, let it also be valid, as the edge of the roof is considered 
to descend and make a wall. Said Abayi: I yield to thee in 
this point, because it looks like an open entry. An objection 
was raised from our Mishna: If a court is surrounded. by bal- 
conies, etc., why? Let it also be considered that the edge of the 
roof makes it a wall? Rabha. explained, in accordance with 
Abayi’s opinion, that the case is that the edge projected not over 
the wall, but was even with it. 

R. Ashi found R. Kahna, who had roofed a balcony that had 
no small pillars, and he asked him: Does not the Master hold 
what Rabha said, that when there are no pillars the Succah is 
invalid? And he took him outside and showed him that there 
were pillars not visible inside, but only outside; and it was taught 
in Erubin (p. 17), if it was seen from outside, and not from inside, 
it is regarded as a side-beam, and a side-beam is the same as a 
small pillar. 

A Boraitha taught: A vestibule, outside of the booth, is con- 
sidered as the booth itself.. What is meant by this? Said Ullah: 
A vestibule formed by sticks projecting beyond the Succah. 
Are not three walls needed? . When there are. But-is it not 
needed that there be more shadow than sunshine? If there was. 
But is not a prescribed size needed? If it was. If so, what 
comes he to teach us?. Lest one say, that because the Succah 
was made for sitting inside, shall the outside not be considered a 
Succah at all, he comes to teach us it is not. 

MISHNA: If. one makes a Succah in the form of a cone, or 
leans the roof against a wall, R. Eliezer says it is not valid, 
because it has no roof; but the sages declare it is valid. 

GEMARA: A Boraitha taught: R. Eliezer admits, if one 
placed it one span over the ground, or separated it one span from 
the wall, the Succah is valid. What is the reason of the sages? 


24 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


for the theory of Lavud applies to them, and they are regarded 
as upright. They hold that the slanting parts of a tent are con- 
sidered as the tent itself. Abayi found R. Joseph sleeping in a 
nuptial bed in a Succah. Said Abayi to him: According to 
whom do you do so? According to R. Eliezer? Then you left the 
majority of rabbis, and followed an individual. Answered he: 
The Boraitha teaches the contrary: That R. Eliezer makes it 
valid, but the sages say it is invalid. Rejoined Abayi: Then you 
leave a Mishna, and act according to a Boraitha. And he an- 
swered : The Mishna is written according to an individual's opinion, 
as we have learned in a Boraitha: if one makes a booth in the 
form of a cave, or leans the roof on a wall, R. Nathan said that 
R. Eliezer makes it invalid, because it has no roof, but the sages 
permit this. 

MISHNA: A large reed mat made for sleeping on is subject 
to defilement, and a Succah must not be covered with it; but if it 
was made to cover a booth, it may be used, and is not subject to 
defilement. R. Eleazar said: There is no difference whether it 
is large or small, but only the use for which it was made is consid- 
ered; if for sleeping, then it is subject to defilement, and must 
not be used; but in the other case, if for covering, it is not sub- 
ject to defilement, and may be used. 

GEMARA: Did not the Mishna contradict itself? In the 
first part it says, if it was made for sleeping, then it is subject to 
defilement, etc., but if the purpose for which it was made was not 
expressed, it must be considered as for a covering. And the 
second part says, “If it was made for a cover”; from this we 
may infer, if the purpose was not expressed we consider it for 
sleeping? Said R. Papa: In case of a small one, if the purpose 
was not expressed, all agree it may be considered as for sleeping ; 
but in case of a large one, the first Tana holds that where no pur- 
pose was expressed it is considered to have been made for cover- 
ing. But R. Eliezer holds, that even a large one is also usually 
made for sleeping, and the expression in the Mishna, “if it was 
made for sleeping,” is to be explained so: if it was made, say it is 
for the purpose of sleeping, unless he expressed another purpose. 

The rabbis taught: A mat made of bark or papyrus, if large, 
may be used for a cover; but if small, it may not. If it is of 
reeds, or hilath, a large one may be used for covering ; but if they 
are woven together, it may not. R. Ishmael bar Jose said in the 
name of his father: Both may be used to cover, and the same 
said R. Dosa, 








TRACT SUCCAH. | 25 


We have learned (Edioth, III. 4): “ All hutzlahs* are liable 
to become unclean from a corpse, so is the decree of R. Dosa; 
but the sages said: They are liable to become unclean only by 
pressing.” What are hutzlahs? Said R. Simeon bar Lakish: It 
means ordinary mats, and the same is according to his theory 
elsewhere, where he said: I would sacrifice myself to bring back 
to life R. Hiya and his children, because in the ancient time, 
when the Torah was forgotten by Israel, Ezra came from Baby- 
lon, and reéstablished it again ; when afterwards it was again for- 
gotten, Hillel the Babylonian came up from Babylon and restored 
it again; and when it was again forgotten, came R. Hiya and his 
children and restored it again. And they said to this: That R. 
Dosa and the sages did not differ about the mats of the city of 
Usha, that they are subject to defilement, and that the mats of 
Tiberia are not; what they do differ about is the mats of other 
places: one holds that because nobody sits on them, they are 
equal to those of Tiberia; and the others hold that because it can 
happen that somebody should sit upon them, they are equal to 
the mats of Usha. 

We learned in a Boraitha: R. Hananiah said: When I came 
into the exile, I found an old man who said to me that to cover 
a Succah with a mat is lawful; afterwards, when I came to R. 
Joshuah my father’s brother, he admitted this theory. Said R. 
Hisda: This is only when it is not seamed. Said Ullah: The 
mats from the city of Mehuzah, but for their seams, would be 
lawful to be used for covering. So also we have learned in a 
Boraitha: Mats may be used for covering, provided they have 
no seams. 





* See Levi's Dictionary. 


CHAPTER II. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE SITUATIONS IN WHICH A BOOTH MAY 
BE PLACED, WHAT MUST BE DONE IN IT, ETC, 


MISHNA: He who sleeps under a bed in the booth has not 
fulfilled his duty (of sleeping there). Said R. Jehudah: We were 
in the habit of sleeping under a bed in the presence of the elders, 
and they never said anything to us. Said R. Simeon: It hap- 
pened that Tabbi, the slave of R. Gamaliel, used to sleep under 
a bed. But R. Gamaliel said to the elders: Do you see my slave 
Tabbi? He is a scholar (Talmud Hakham), and knows that 
slaves are exempt from the duty of Succah. Therefore he sleeps 
under a bedstead. From this we infer that he who sei, os under 
a bed has not fulfilled his duty. 

GEMARA: Why? - The bed is usually not ten spans high? 
Samuel explained this, that the case is when'the bed is high ten 
spans. (But if so,) what is the reason of R. Jehudah’s decree? 
This is according to his theory elsewhere, that-the Succah must 
be a permanent dwelling, and the bed-is only a temporary dwell- 
ing, and a temporary dwelling cannot make ignored a permanent 
one. But did not R. Simeon hold the same theory, that a Succah 
must be a permanent dwelling (because his decree is that it must 
have four walls), and nevertheless he does not allow to sleep under 
the bed? This is the point of their difference: according to 
R. Simeon a temporary dwelling makes ignored, and according to 
R. Jehudah it does not. 

“ Tt happened once that Tabbi the slave,” etc. We have learned 
in a Boraitha: R. Simeon said: From R. Gamaliel’s remarks we 
have learned two things: That slaves are free from the duty of a 
Succah, and that one who sleeps under a bed has not fulfilled the 
duty of Succah. Let him say, “from R. Gamaliel’s decree,” he 
comes to teach us by the way that R. A’ha bar Adda, according 
to others the same in the name of R. Hamnuna, quoting Rabh, 
said: Whence do we know that even a remark of a scholar must 
be studied? Because it is written [Ps.i.] “ And the leaf does not 
wither,” even a slight thing as a leaf is not valueless. 








TRACT SUCCAH. 27 


~ MISHNA: If one supports his Succah with a bedstead, it is 
valid. R. Jehudah said: A Succah that cannot stand by itself is 
invalid. ; 

GEMARA: What is the reason of R. Jehudah’s decree? R. 
Zera and R. Abba bar Mamel differed: One says: Because so it is 
not made a permanent dwelling; and one says: Because he sup- 
ports it with a thing subject to defilement. What is the differ- 
ence? If one put iron spits and covered it, according to them 
who say because it is not permanent, the iron spits are permgnent ; 
but according to those who say because he supports with a thing 
subject to defilement, the iron spits are subject to defilement, and 
are invalid. Said Abayi: They differ only if he supports the 
booth with the bedstead; but if he has roofed the bed itself, all 
agree it is valid. Whyso? Because to them who say, because 
it is not permanent, it can be said the bed is permanent; and to 
them who say because he supports with a thing subject to defile- 
ment, it can be said the roof is not subject to defilement. 

MISHNA: A Succah covered thinly, if there is more shadow 
than sun, is valid; if the covering is close, like the roof of a 
house, though the stars are not visible through it, it is nevertheless 
valid. 

GEMARA: What is meant by thin covering? Said Rabh: 
Scanty covering (too much empty space between one stick and 
the other). And Samuel said: Irregular covering—one twig 
down, one twig up, that is. Rabh interpreted that the Mishna 
teaches only one case, a poor Succah, in which there is more 
shadow than sun, is valid; and according to Samuel, the Mishna 
teaches two things: first, that a Succah with an irregular cover- 
ing is valid; and secondly, that all Succahs where the shadow is 
more than the sunshine are valid. Said Abayi: The Mishna 
refers to a case where there is not three spans distance from one 
twig to the other; but if there is, it is invalid. _Rabha, however, 
said: Even if there were three spans between, provided the twig 
was not wide at the top a span, it is invalid; but if it was, it is 
valid, because we say: Hlavit ram?z,* and it is valid. 

“ Tf there ts more shadow than sun.” From this we may infer, 
that if they were equal, it is not valid; but in the first chapter 





* This expression has the same meaning as gud achith, explained in Erubin, p. 6, 
and means, if the twig was a span at the top, it is considered whether the top lies 
over the empty place. And Rashi explains this, that the twigs were not lying but 
standing upright, and therefore the top when wide a span is considered to be lying. 


28 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


the Mishna teaches, if the sunshine was more than the shadow it 
is invalid, from which we may infer that. if they were equal it zs 
valid? It presents no difficulty. If on the top the empty place 
was equal to the covering, because on the ground the sunshine 
would appear larger; but if on the ground the sunshine and the 
shadow are equal, it is valid, because then on the top there must 
be more covering than empty space. Said R. Papa: This is ac- 
cording to what people say: If on the top it is of the size of a 
Zuz, it,appears on the ground the size of a Sela.* 

“ Tf close like the roof of a house.’ The rabbis taught: If it 
was close as a roof of a house, although the stars cannot be seen 
through it, it is valid; but if the rays of the sun do not penetrate, 
Beth Shammai hold it is not valid, and Beth Hillel hold it is. 

MISHNA: If one constructs a Succah on the top of a wagon, 
or on board a vessel, it is valid, and he may ascend thereto on 
the festival. If he has constructed the Succah on the top of a 
tree, or on the back of a camel, it is valid; but he must not 
ascend thereto on the festival days. If two walls are formed bya 
tree, and one by human hands, or two by human hands and one 
by a tree, the Succah is valid, but one must not ascend thereto 
on the festival. This is the rule: Whenever the Succah can 

stand by itself, even should the tree be removed, the Succah is 
- valid, and it is lawful to ascend thereto on the festival. 

GEMARA: This Mishna is in accordance with R. Agiba 
only, as we have learned in a Boraitha: If a Succah was made ona 
ship, Rabban Gamaliel makes it invalid, and R. Aqiba makes it 
valid. It happened once that Rabban Gamaliel and R. Aqiba 
were on a ship, and R. Aqiba constructed a Succah on the ship. 
On the morrow a wind blew it off, and Rabban Gamaliel said to 
him: Agiba, where is thy Succah? Said Abayi: If the Succah 
cannot withstand an ordinary wind from land, all agree that it is not 
a Succah at all; if it can hold out a storm on land, all agree it must 
be regarded as a Succah; but if it can hold out an ordinary wind 
from land, but not an ordinary wind from the sea, there is the point 
of their difference: R. Gamaliel holds it must be a permanent 
dwelling, and as it cannot withstand an ordinary wind from the 
sea, it is not considered as anything; but R. Agqiba holds that 
only a temporary dwelling is needed, and so soon as it is proof 
against an ordinary wind from land, it is called a temporary 
dwelling. 





* Two coins, the first a small one, the second very large. 





TRACT SUCCAH. 29 


“ Or on the back of a camel.’ The Mishna is in accordance 
with R. Meir, as we learn in the following Boraitha: If one has 
made his Succah on the back of an animal, it is valid, according 
to R. Meir; but not according to R. Jehudah. What is the 
reason of R. Jehudah? Because it is written [Deut. xvi. 13]: 
“ The feast of tabernacles shalt thou hold seven days.” From 
this we infer that a booth fit for all seven days may be called a 
Succah, but not otherwise (and as the sages prohibited to mount 
an animal on the festival, it is not fit for the first day of the 
festival). But what would R. Meir answer to this? Biblically it 
is fit, but.only the rabbis prohibited as a precautionary measure 
to mount an animal (and if biblically fit, it is called a Succah). 

If the animal was used as a wall to the Succah? R. Meir 
makes it invalid, and R. Jehudah makes it valid. Because R. 
Meir used to say: All things which have life must not be made 
a wall to the Succah, nor a side-beam to an entry, nor an enclosure 
to a well, nor a covering of a grave; and in the name of R. Jose 
the Galilean it was said: Also, a letter of divorce must not be 
written on it. What is the reason of R. Meir? Abayi said: 
Because it may die. R. Zera said: Because it can run away. If 
an elephant were tied to a wall and used as a wall, all agree it is 
valid, because, even if it should die, its carcass measures more 
than ten spans. In what they differ is, when the elephant is not 
tied: according to them who fear its death, it is valid; but ac- 
cording to those who fear its flight, it is not valid. But did 
Abayi say that R. Meir feared its death, and R. Jehudah did not? 
Have we not heard the contrary from him in Gittin, that R. Meir 
feared it, and R. Jehudah did not? Read these conversely : 
Abayi said R. Meir feared its death, and R. Jehudah did not. 
But did we not learn in Tract Yomah, R. Jehudah declares: To 
the high-priest another wife must be prepared for the Day of 
Atonement, lest his wife die? (So he apprehends death.) Is it 
not taught, in addition to the same Mishna: R. Huna the son of 
R. Joshua said, that for forgiving the sins an exceptional rule 
was made? 

Let us see: According to both sages—who apprehend 
death or flight—biblically it is valid as a wall; and only as a 
rabbinical precautionary measure is it forbidden. Why is it 
not subject to defilement when it covers a grave, according 
to R. Meir? Said R. A’ha bar Jacob: R. Meir holds that 
all partitions not made by human hands are not called partitions 
at all. 


30 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


MISHNA: If one makes a booth between trees which form 
side-walls, it is valid. 

GEMARA: A’ha bar Jacob said: All partitions that are not 
proof against an ordinary wind are not partitions at all. An ob- 
jection was raised from our Mishna, which teaches that if the 
trees were used as walls, it is valid; but did not the trees shake 
by an ordinary wind? The case is, when they are old trees. But 
even if old trees, are there not branches? If one weaves the 
branches into the walls. If it is so, what does he come to teach 
us? Is it not self-evident ?> One might say that perhaps it shall 
be prohibited as a precautionary measure, lest on the festival he 
climb the tree, he comes to teach us that such a measure is not 
taken. 

MISHNA: Delegates for a religious purpose are free from 
the duty of Succah; also sick persons, and those who nurse them. 
One may occasionally eat or drink something outside of the 
booth. 

GEMARA: Whence do we deduce this? From what the 
rabbis taught: It is written [Deut. vi. 7]: “ When thou sittest in 
thy house”: that means, except when thou art occupied by a 
religious observance; [ibid.] ‘When thou walkest by the way ” 
means, except when thou goest to marry. From this is said, 
that he who marries a virgin is exempt, but he who marries a 
widow is not. But how can this be inferred? Said R. Huna: From 
the expression “on the way,” as one goes on the way, means as a 
voluntary act, and this is to exclude one occupied by a religious 
duty. R. Abba bar Zabda said in the name of Rabh: A mourner 
isnot exempt from the duty of the Succah. Is not this self- 
evident? One might say, because the same authority says else- 
where that one who is afflicted by something is exempt from the 
duty of Succah, and a mourner is certainly afflicted, one might say 
that he is exempt, he comes to teach us that it is when the affliction 
iscaused by the Succah; but here, when he afflicts himself, he 
must divert his attention, and fulfil the duty of Succah. The 
same says again in the name of Rabh: A bridegroom and his 
attendants and all who belong to the wedding-party are exempt 
from the Succah all the seven days. Why so? Because they 
must enjoy themselves. But let them enjoy themselves in the 
Succah? No enjoyment can be had outside of the house where 
the wedding is. But let them eat in the Succah and enjoy them- 
selves in the house. There is no enjoyment except where the 
banquet is. But let the house where the wedding takes place 











“TRACT SUCCAH. 31 


be made in the Succah? Abayi said, it cannot be made, be- 
cause the bride must not be left with strangers; and Rabha 
said, because the bridegroom will find it inconvenient. What is 
the difference ? when even in the house, where men come in and go 
out, they are not in privacy, but it is inconvenient. According to 
Abayi, it may be made in the Succah, and according to Rabha it 
may not. R. Zera said: When I was a bridegroom, I ate in the 
Succah, and enjoyed myself in the bride’s house, and I enjoyed 
myself the more because I fulfilled two religious duties. 

The rabbis taught: A bridegroom and his attendants and 
all the wedding-party are exempt from prayers, from phylacteries, 
but they must read Shema. In the name of R. Shila it was said: 
Only the bridegroom is exempt, but all the others are not. A 
Boraitha states, R. Hanania b. Akabia said: Writers of the holy 
scrolls, or tefilin, or mezuzoth, they and the wholesale sellers and 
the retail sellers, and all men engaged in work for Heaven, in- 
cluding also the sellers of blue threads for tzitzith, are exempt 
. from the reading of Shema, from praying, from tefilin, and all the 
religious duties commanded in the Torah. He said so to confirm 
the words of R. Jose the Galilean, who said: Who is engaged in 
one religious work, is free from another one. 

The rabbis taught : Those who are on the road in the day are 
exempt from the duty of Succah during the day, but not during 
the night; and if they travel by night, it is conversely. If they 
travel during both, they are exempt wholly. But who goes on a 
religious mission, is exempt from the duty of Succah both by day 
and by night. As it happened, R. Hisda and Rabha bar R. 
Huna coming on a Sabbath falling on one of the intermediate 
days, to the exilarch to hear his lecture, they slept on the bank 
of a river of Sura. They said, we are delegates for a religious 
purpose, and exempt from the duty of Succah. 

The rabbis taught : The watchmen of a tower who watch by 
day are exempt from the Succah by day, but not by night; and 
those who watch by night are exempt for the night, and those 
who watch during both are entirely exempt. Those who watch 
gardens and vineyards are exempt from the Succah by day and 
by night. But let them make the booths there, and sit in them ? 
Said Abayi: It is written: “ Ye shall dwell in booths.” It must 
be where the dwellings are. And Rabha said: The hole brings 
the thief (¢.¢., he will not be able to watch carefully). What is 
the difference? When the whole of the fruit would be visible 
from his position in the Succah (he should sit in one). 


32 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


“ Sick persons and their nurses.” The rabbis taught: Not 
only those who are dangerously sick, but if there is no danger, if 
one has sore eyes or a headache, he is also exempt. R. Simeon 
b. Gamaliel told: It once happened I had sore eyes when I was 
in Caesarea (Kisrin), and R. Jose the Great allowed me and my 
servants to sleep outside of the Succah. Rabh, however, allowed 
R. A’ha of Bardla to sleep under a canopy in a booth (though 
ten spans high), to prevent mosquitoes. Rabha allowed R. A’ha 
bar Ada to sleep outside of the Succah, because it was freshly 
whitewashed. And Rabha acted according to his theory else- 
where, that whoever suffers is exempt. But have we not learned 
in our Mishna that only sick persons are exempt, and we may 
infer, not those who are in sorrow? Nay, in case of a sick person, 
he and his nurses are exempt, but he who is in sorrow may 
only himself stay out, not his servants. 

“ Men may occasionally eat,” etc. What is meant by some- 
thing? Said R. Joseph: Two or three eggs. Said Abayi to him: 
But many times a man finds three eggs sufficient for a meal? 
Therefore said Abayi: As much as a young scholar partakes 
before he goes to hear the lecture. 

The rabbis taught: One may eat a hasty meal outside of the 
Succah, but one must not take a nap outside. Why so? Said 
R. Ashi: As a precautionary measure, lest he fall profoundly 
asleep for the whole night. Said Abayi to him: If it is so, why 
does a Boraitha allow a man to take a nap with his tefilin on, but 
not to sleep long? Let it be apprehended lest he fall asleep? 
Said R. Joseph bar Ilai: This is the case when he has eneaged a 
man to wake him up. Rabha, however, said: There is no ap- 
pointed time for sleeping; concerning the tefilin, it is for a dif- 
ferent reason (as will be explained in Tract Benedictions). Rabh 
said: One must not sleep by day longer than a horse sleeps. 
How long is it? So as to be able to make sixty respirations. 
Said Abayi: My Master used to sleep by day as long as Rabh, 
and Rabh as Rabbi, and Rabbi as King David, and David slept 
as long as a horse. And how long is the sleep of ahorse? Sixty 
respirations. Abayi himself sleeps as long as it would take to 
walk from Pompeditha to Be Kubi. Exclaimed R. Joseph about 
him the verse in Proverbs [vi. 9]: “ How long, O sluggard, wilt 
thou lie down? When wilt thou arise out of thy sleep?” 

MISHNA: It happened that a dish was brought to R. 
Johanan b. Zakai to taste, and two dates and a jar of water to 
Rabban Gamaliel. Each of them said: Bring it to the booth. 





TRACT SUCCAH. 33 


But when food less than an egg was brought to R. Zadok, he took 
it in the napkin, and ate it outside of the booth, but did not pro- 
nounce the benediction after meals for it. 

GEMARA: Is it customary to adduce an act as a contra- 
diction to the former teaching of the Mishna above (which says 
a hasty meal may be eaten outside of the Succah)? The above 
Mishna is not completed, and must read so: If one wants to 
make it more rigorous for himself, he may do so, without it 
being said he is vain; and it also happened with R. Johanan b. 
Zakai and Rabban Gamaliel that a dish and dates were brought 
to them, and they said they should be carried to the Succah. 

“ And when food less than the size of an egg,’ etc. But if the 
size of a whole egg? Then the Succah is needed? Shall we 
assume that this will be an objection to the teaching of R. Joseph 
and Abayi (which states above, three eggs, or as much as a young 
scholar, which is at any rate not less than an egg)? Nay, it may 
be explained that if it would be of the size of an egg, the legal 
washing of hands before and benediction after the meal would be 
needed (but Succah would not be needed). 

MISHNA: Fourteen meals must be eaten in the Succah, one 
in the morning and one at night (of each day of the festival), 
according to R. Eleazar; but the sages say it is not fixed by law, 
except that one must eat in the Succah on the first night. R. 
Eleazar said again: He who has not eaten on the first night can 
make amends for it by eating in the booth on the last night of the 
festival; but according to the sages no amends can be made, and 
they apply it to the verse [Eccl. i. 15]: “ What is crooked cannot 
be made straight, and that which is defective cannot be numbered.” 

GEMARA: What is the reason of R. Eleazar? Because it is 
written: “Ye shall dwell.” And as in a dwelling it is usually 
eaten in the morning and in the evening, so must it be done also in 
the Succah; but according to the sages, it is as a dwelling, where 
one eats or not, at his pleasure. If it is so, why is he bound to eat 
the first evening of the festival? Said R. Johanan in the name 
of R. Simeon b. Jehozodok: It is written here in the fifteenth, 
and about the Passover the word fifteen is written: there is an 
analogy of expression, as on Passover the first night must Matzah 
be eaten, and later it is optional, so on the first night of the 
Feast of Tabernacles it must be eaten in the Succah, and hence- 
forth it is optional. But whence is it known that on Passover it 
is obligatory? Because it is written [Ex. xii. 18]: “At evening 
shall ye eat unleavened bread.” This verse makes it obligatory. 

3 , 


34 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


|. “CR. Eliezer said again,” etc. : But did not R. Eliezer say that 
it is obligatory to eat fourteen meals in the Succah: every day 
one meal in the morning and in the evening? Said Bira in the 
name of R. Ami: R. Eliezer retracted what he had said. But 
with what shall he make amends? Shall he eat another meal? 
A man cannot eat more than he needs. With extra dishes for 
dessert. We have also learned in a Boraitha, if: one makes 
amends with extra dishes, he has done his duty. The manager 
of the house of Agrippa the king (ezzrpoos) asked R. Eliezer: I, 
for instance, who eat only one meal in twenty-four hours, may I 
do so in the Succah—eat one meal and fulfil my duty? And 
he answered him: Did you not make every day many dishes of 
delicacies for the sake of yourself, and can you not add one dish 
for the sake of your Creator? He asked him again: I, for ex- 
ample, who have two wives, one in Tiberia and one in Ziporeth, 
and have also two booths, one in Tiberia and one in Ziporeth, 
may I go from one Succah to’ the other, and my duty shall be 
fulfilled? And he answered: Nay, because I say who goes from 
one booth to another abolishes the religious duty he has done in 
the first. 

‘We have learned in a Boraitha: R. Eliezer. said: One must 
not go out from one Succah to another (to eat in one and sleep 
in another), and a Succah must not be made in the intermediate 
days. The sages, however, say: Both may be done. All agree 
that if the Succah has fallen, he may rebuild it on the interme- 
diate days. What is the reason of R. Eliezer? Because it is 
written [Deut. xvi. 13]: “ Seven days shall ye hold the feast of 
tabernacles.” From this we infer the Succah shall be made to 
be fit for seven days. The rabbis, however, explained this pas- 
sage so: On the Feast of the Tabernacles ye shall make a booth 
(during the whole feast). They all agree that if the Succah falls, 
it may be rebuilt. Is not this self-evident? -We might assume 
that: the second Succah cannot be made for seven days, and 
therefore shall not be made at all. He comes to teach us that it 
is not so. 

We have learned in a Boraitha: R. Eliezer said: As aman 
cannot fulful his duty with a Lulab belonging to his neighbor on 
the first day, as it is written [Lev. xxiii. 40]: “ And ye shall take 
unto yourselves on the first day the fruit of. the tree hadar, 
branches of palm trees,” etc.—‘unto yourselves,” that means, 
your own, but not those belonging to your neighbor; so also a 
man cannot fulfil his duty in a Succah belonging to his neighbor, 














TRACT SUCCAH. 35 


because it is written: “Seven days shalt thou make unto thee the 
feast of the tabernacles,’”’ and we infer from “for thee” it shall 
be thy own. The sages, however, said: Although it was said 
that a man cannot fulfil his duty with the Lulab of his neighbor, 
he may nevertheless do his duty of Succah in the neighbor’s Suc- 
cah, because it is written [ibid.]: “All that. are Israelites born 
shall dwellin booths.” From this we learn that all Israelites may 
sit in one Succah. But how will the sages account: for the ex- 
pression “unto thee”? They say it is to exclude a robbed Suc- 
cah, but a borrowed Succah may be used. 

The rabbis taught : It happened once to R. Ilai that he came 
to see R. Eliezer his Master in the city of Lud on the festival ; 
and the latter said to him: Ilai, thou art not of those who rest 
on the festival, because R. Eliezer used to say: I praise the slug- 
gards, who do not go out on the festival from the house, because 
it is written [Deut. xiv. 26]: “ Thou shalt rejoice, thou and thy 
household.” This is not so: did not R. Itz’hak say: Whence do 
we know that a man must visit his teacher on the festival? Be- 
cause it is ‘written [II Kings, iv. 23]: “ Wherefore art thou going 
to him to-day? It is neither new moon nor Sabbath?” - From 
this we-may infer that on a new moon and a Sabbath it is obliga- 
tory-to visit: one’s Master? It presents no difficulty: If one’s 
Master is in the same city, where one can go and return the same 
day, he must ; but not otherwise. 

The shibia taught: It happened once ‘that R. Eliezer took 
his rest in the booth of Johanan bar Ilai in the city of Kisri, of 
Upper Galilea, according to others in Kisrion, and the sun 
reached the Succah..» And the host asked R. Eliezer: Shall I 
spread a sheet on it? And he answered: There was not one 
tribe. of Israel from which'a judge did not descend.* . The sun 
reached the middle of the Succah, and he asked again: How if I 
should spread a sheet on it? And he answered: There was not 
one tribe of Israel from which si ceieate have not descended, and 





* Rashi explains this as follows: The Judges of the Book of Judges, i,¢., the 
Rulers of Israel since Joshua’s death to the prophet Samuel: From the tribe 
Ephraim was Joshua; from Benjamin, Ehud; Manasseh, Gideon—that is, from 
the children of Rachel. Samson was of Dan, Barak of Kaddesh was of Naphtali— 
Bilha’s children. Ibzan, or’ Boaz, from Judah ; Eli of Levi,*Tola from Issachar, 
Elun from Zebulun ; Othniel, Jephthah, Shamgar, Abdan—it is not known of what 
tribes they were descended. From the tribes of Reuben, Simeon, Gad, and Asher, 
I have not found, says Rashi, explicitly that Judges were descended from them. 
But it may be the Judges whose tribes were not named were traditionally said to be 
of those. 


36 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


the tribes of Judah and Benjamin chose kings at the command 
of the prophets. Finally the sun reached R. Eliezer’s feet, and 
Johanan took a sheet and spread it over the Succah; and R. 
Eliezer took his garments and shouldered them, and left the 
booth. This was not because he did not want to teach him the 
law, but because R. Eliezer never decided a thing which he had 
not heard from his Master. But how could R. Eliezer do this ? 
Did he not himself declare that a man must not go out from one 
Succah to another? They answered: That was not on the Feast 
of Tabernacles at all; it was another festival, and they sat in the 
Succah only for fresh air. But did not R. Eliezer declare: I 
praise the sluggards who do not leave on a festival their houses? 
It was not on a festival; it was an ordinary Sabbath. 

The rabbis taught: It happened with R. Eliezer that he took 
rest in Upper Galilea, and he was asked thirty Halakhoth about 
the law of Succah. To twelve he answered: So I have heard; 
and to eighteen he answered: I did not hear them. R. Jose b. 
R. Jehudah says: On the contrary, to eighteen he answered: I 
have heard; and to twelve: I have not heard. And they asked 
him: Are all your decisions only from what you have heard? 
He answered: You compelled me to tell you one thing which I 
had not heard from my Masters. That is, never in my life came 
a man to the house of learning before me and I never slept in the 
house of learning a long or a short time; I never left a man in 
the house of learning when I went away, and I never talk about 
worldly affairs, and I never decided a thing which I had not heard 
from my Masters. 

It was said of R. Johanan b. Zakai: Never in his life did he 
talk of worldly affairs; he never walked four ells without study- 
ing the Law and without tefilin; he was never anticipated by an- 
other in turning to the house of learning, and did not sleep in the 
house of learning even a short time; he did not teach about the © 
Law in dirty alleys; he did not leave a man in the house of 
learning when he went away; he was never to be found silent, 
but always studying aloud, and never anybody opened the door 
for his disciples but himself; he never decided a thing he had not 
heard from his Master, and he never said it was time to go out of 
the house of learning except on the eves of Passover and on the 
eves of the Days of Atonement. And R. Eliezer his disciple 
conducted himself similarly. 

The rabbis taught: Hillel the Elder had eighty disciples: 
thirty of them were worthy that the Shekhina should rest on 














TRACT SUCCAH. 37 


them as on Moses our Master; thirty of them were worthy the 
sun should be stopped for their sake, as it did before Joshua 
the son of Nun, and twenty were mediocre. The greatest of all 
the disciples was Jonathan b. Uziel, the least of all was R. 
Johanan b. Zakai. It was said of the latter, that he did not leave 
out the Bible, the Mishna, the Gemara, Halakhoth, and Agadoth 
(legends), the observations of the Bible, observations of the 
Scribes, lenient ones and vigorous ones, the analogies of expres- 
sion, equinoxes, geometries, the language of the angels and the 
language of the evil spirits and the language of the trees, the 
fables, the great things, the heavenly chariots and small things, 
the discussions of Abayi and Rabha, to confirm what is written 
[{Prov. viii. 21]: ‘“‘ That I may cause those that love me to inherit 
a lasting possession and their treasures will I fill.” And when 
the least of all was so, how much the more was the greatest of 
all. It was said of Jonathan b. Uziel, that when he studied the 
Law every bird that flew over him was burned. 

MISHNA: If the head and greater part of a man’s body is 
in the booth, and his table in the house, Beth Shammai say he 
has not fulfilled the duty of Succah, but Beth Hillel say he has. 
Said Beth Hillel to Beth Shammai: Did it not happen that the 
elders of Beth Shammai and those of Beth Hillel visited R. 
Johanan b. Hahoronith, and found him sitting with his head and 
greater part of his body in the booth, and his table was in the 
house? and they said to him nothing. Beth Shammai replied: 
Do you adduce this as a proof? They said to him: If such has 
always been your custom, you have never in your life properly 
fulfilled the duty of Succah. 

Women, slaves, and minors are exempt from the Succah. A 
boy that needs no longer the nursing of his mother must obey 
the command of Succah. It happened that the daughter-in-law 
of Shammai the Elder gave birth to a son on the festival, so he 
caused the roof to be taken off, and covered it as a Succah for 
the sake of the infant. 

GEMARA: Whence is all this deduced? From what the rab- 
bis taught : The verse could say Zzrah (“an Israelite born’’). That 
would include the women. But it is written Ha’esrah, “the 
Israelites born,” which means the certain Israelites, and to ex- 
clude women. And by the word “all” it is meant to include 
minors. Shall we assume that the expression “Israelites born” 
includes women also? Did not we learn in a Boraitha (concern- 
ing the Day of Atonement), where it is written, “the Israelite 


38 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


born,” which means to include women, for whom it is as obliga. 
tory to fast as for males? From this we see that when it is 
written, “Israelites born,” only males are meant? Said Rabha: 
That is not deduced from the passages, but it is all Sinaic, and 
the passages were taken as a. support. .But which passage, and 
which Sinaic law? And, again, to what purpose was a verse or a 
Sinaic law needed at all? Is not the Succah a commandment 
dependent on a certain season, and from all commands depend- 
ing on certain seasons women are free? This is concerning Suc- 
cah; and concerning the Day of Atonement this is deduced from 
what R. Jehudah says in the name of. Rabh;.and so also taught 
the disciples of R. Ishmael. It is written [Num. v: 6]: “If any 
man or woman commit a sin.” From this we see that the verse 
made the man and the woman equal in all penalties of the Torah. 
Said Abayi: That a woman is. exempt from the Succah ‘is a 
Sinaic law, and nevertheless this. support of a verse was needed, 
because one might say it is written, “ Ye shall dwell.” ; and as in 
a dwelling are usually a man and wife, we might think that in 
the Succah there should also be a man and wife, it comes to teach 
us that itis not so. Rabha said: It is needed lest one say, by 
an analogy of. expression, it is written. about Passover. on the 
fifteenth, and here, as on Passover, it is obligatory for women, so 
it is also on the Feast of Tabernacles, it comes to teach. us that 
it is not so. Now, when you say there is a*Sinaic law, why is 
the passage needed? It comes to include the proselytes; one 
might say the Israelites born, but not a proselyte, we are taught 
that they also are included. But the Day of Atonement, that is 
inferred from the above saying of R. Jehudah in the name of 
Rabh. Why is the Sinaic law here needed? This is needed 
for the addition to the Day of. Atonement from the preceding 
day, which is biblical, but has no capital. punishment. One 
might say that because the addition has no punishment, the 
women are exempt; the Sinaic law comes.to say it-is not so. 

The Master says: A//,toincludethe minors. But have we not 
learned in our Mishna, that women, slaves, mznors, are free from 
Succah? . This presents no difficulty: The Mishna means a case 
in which the minor is-not yet old enough to be trained in a relig- 
ious duty, and the Boraitha means.a case of a minor.old enough 
for that. But in case of a minor who has reached such an age, 
the duty is only rabbinical? ‘Yea, the passage is taken only asa 
support. 

“A minor that needs not the nursing of his mother.” What is 








TRACT SUCCAH. 39 


meant by this? A minor whe can obey the call of nature with- 
out the aid of his mother. So said the disciples of. R. Yanai. 
But Resh Lakish said: A child that on awakening does not cry: 
Mother! mother! 

“ It happened that the daughter-in-law of Shammat,’ etc. Is 
not this act a contradiction to the former teaching? The Mishna 
isnot completed. It must be read so; “ And Shammai the Elder 
is more rigorous, and it happened also that his daughter-in-law 
gave birth to a son, so he caused the roof to be removed, and 
covered it as a Succah for the sake of the infant.” 

MISHNA: During the seven days of the festival one must 
use the booth as the regular domicile, and the house only as an 
occasional abode. . If it rains, when is he permitted to remove 
from the Succah? When a-mess of porridge has been spoiled. 
The elders illustrate this by a comparison: What does such a cir- 
cumstance resemble? As if a servant presented a goblet to his 
master, who throws a bowl full in his face. 

GEMARA: The. rabbis. taught: All the seven days one 
must use the booth as. one’s regular domicile. How so? If he 
has fine utensils, he shall place them in the Succah; if he has fine 
bedding, he should transfer it to the Succah; and he should eat, 
and drink, and walk only in the Succah. Whence is this deduced ? 
From what the rabbis taught: It is written: “Ye shall dwell”; 
it means, it shall be as a regular dwelling, and from this was de- 
duced that all the seven days one shall make the Succah his reg- 
ular dwelling, and his house a temporary one. He shall eat, 
drink, and study in the Succah. Is it so? Did not Rabha say 
that only. to read the Bible and to learn a Mishna one may in the 
Succah, but study one may not? This presents no. difficulty. 
The Boraitha means to repeat what he had studied already, and 
Rabha—to study something new, as Rabha and Rami, while 
studying under R. Hisda, used to repeat his lecture among them- 
selves first, and afterwards. tried to find out the reasons of it. 
Rabha said: The vessels for drinking shall be kept in the Suc- 
cah; but the vessels for eating, outside. A pitcher of clay, 
outside of the Succah,.a candlestick of clay in the Succah, and 
according to others, outside, and they do not differ; it means, in 
a large Succah it. may; in a:small one, it.-may not, because it is 
dangerous. 

“ Tf it rains.” We have learned in a Boraitha: When a mess 
of gris is spoiled (which is spoiled easily). 

Abayi was sitting in the presence of R. Joseph in the Succah, 


40 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Succah, and a wind blew the chips from the covering into the dish, 
and R. Joseph said: Take off the dishes, and we will go out. 
Said Abayi to him: Have we not learned in the Mishna: Till 
the porridge is spoiled? And he answered: As I am delicate, 
the chips do me as great harm. 

The rabbis taught : If one ate in the Succah and rain fell, and 
he went away and took his meal in the house, when it clears again 
we do not trouble him to interrupt his meal, and to go back to 
the Succah. If he was sleeping in the Succah and it rained, and 
he went away to sleep in the house, he is not aroused when it 
clears again, till the next morning. 

“* What does such a circumstance resemble?” The schoolmen 
asked: What is meant by this? Come and hear. We have 
learned in a Boraitha: As if the master threw the pitcher into 
the servant’s face, and said to him: I do not want your service 
more. 

The rabbis taught: An eclipse of the sun is an ill omen to the 
whole world. What does this resemble? A human king making 
a banquet for his servants, and placing a great lantern before 
them, when he gets angry he says to his servant: Take away the 
light, let them sit in the dark. 

We have learned in a Boraitha: R. Meir said: When the sun 
and the moon are eclipsed, it is a bad sign to the enemies of the 
Israelites (meaning, the Israelites themselves), because they are 
used to troubles: it is equal to the teacher’s coming to the school 
with his whip in his hand. Who is more afraid? The child used 
to being beaten. This is the case when Israel do not do the will 
of the Creator; but when they do, they need not fear anything, as 
it is written [Jeremiah, x. 82]: ‘‘ Thus hath said the Lord: Do not 
habituate yourselves in the way of the nations, and at the signs 
of the heavens be ye not dismayed ; although the nations should 
be dismayed at them.” 

The rabbis taught: On account of the following four things 
the sun becomes eclipsed: When a chief judge dies, and is not 
lamented becomingly ; when a betrothed virgin calls for help in 
the town, and is not aided; unnatural vice; when two brothers 
are killed on the same day; and on account of the following four 
things both the sun and the moon are eclipsed: Forgery, false 
witness, when fruit-bearing trees are cut out, and when sheep and 
goats are kept in Palestine. On account of four things the prop- 
erty of householders is transferred (confiscated) to the govern- 
ment: When paid notes are kept; usury; and when men had the 








a el a 





| A Sn aa 


TRACT SUCCAH. 4! 


power to prevent, but would not ; and when charity was promised 
to the people, and was not given. Rabh said: For four things the 
property of householders becomes annihilated: When they keep 
workers, and do not pay them in time; for robbing them; when 
the strangers free themselves from the yokes on their necks and 
put them on their neighbors’ necks; and for arrogance. And 
arrogance is the worst of all. But of those who are modest is 
written [Ps. xxxvii. 11]: “ But the meek shall inherit the land, 
and shall delight themselves because of the abundance of peace.” 


CHAPTER IIt. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING ‘PALM BRANCHES, .MYRTLES, WILLOWS, 
AND: CITRONS USED ON THE FIRST DAY OF THE FEAST OF 
TABERNACLES, 


MISHNA: A palm branch* which has been acquired by 
theft, or which is dried, is not valid. One which comes from a 
grove (devoted to idolatry) or from a rejected town + is not valid ; 
if the point has been broken off, or the leaves torn off, it is not 
valid; if they are only dissevered, it is valid. R. Jehudah says: 
It must be tied together at the top. A palm branch from the 
Iron Mount t is valid. A palm branch that is three spans long, 
sufficient to shake it by, is valid. 

GEMARA: The Mishna does not mention on which day it is 
valid, and on which not; and from this we can infer that it is 
invalid even for the second day. This would be right only in 
case of a dried one, because it is written kadar, which means 
“beauty,” which a dried one has not; but a robbed one—that is 
prohibited only because it must be his own, as stated above (p. 
34}—but on the second day, which is wholly rabbinical, why 
should it be invalid? Said R. Johanan in the name of R. Simeon 
b. Jochi: Because it is a religious duty that is performed by a sin. 
R. Johanan said again in the name of the same authority: It is 
written [Is. lxi. 8]: “For I, the Lord, love justice: I hate rob- 
bery with burnt-offering.” It resembles a human king who passed 
the custom-house and said to his servants: “ Pay the duty to the 
officers’; and the servants said to him: “Why shall we give 
duties? All the duties are thine”; and he said: “All pas- 
sengers shall learn it from me, and shall not shirk to pay their 
duty.” So the Holy One, blessed be He, said: “I, the Lord, 
hate robbery with a burnt-offering” : of me shall my children 
learn, and avoid robbery. 

It was taught also in the name of R. Ami: A withered one 





* Lev. xxiii. 40. + Deut. xiii. 12. 
$A mountain near Jerusalem, southward, the palm branches of which were very 
short. 








A oo nes, 








RO SKAGE OUCCAR, (3: 43 


is invalid, because it has no beauty ; and a robbed one is invalid, 
because it is a religious duty done by a sin. 

R. Huna said to the sellers of the myrtles: If you buy myr- 
tles from the heathen, do not cut them off yourselves, but let 
themselves cut off, and give them to you. Why so? Because 
most heathen have robbed the ground from the Israelites, and 
the robber is not considered the owner of the ground, even when 
the original owner has despaired of it (but the law is different 
about movable property). And therefore, if you will cut off your- 
selves, that will be as taking a robbed thing; but when they. cut 
off, and as the original owners have despaired, the cut-off myrtle 
boughs become theirs, and you may buy them. 

' The rabbis taught: A robbed Succah or a ‘roof made in a 
public: street, R. Eliezer makes invalid, but the sages make it 
valid. Said R. Na’hman: They differ only when the ground on 
which the Succah is built belongs to his neighbor, and he put out 
the neighbor and took the Succah to himself. This is according 
to R. Eliezer’s theory, who said that one cannot fulfil his duty in 
his neighbor’s Succah: ~It is invalid in any case. According to 
those who say that the robber of ground is considered the owner 
of it, after the original owner has despaired, it is a robbed Succah ; 
and even according to those who say that he can never become 
the owner of the ground, it is. nevertheless'a borrowed Succah 
(because it is not a robbed one). But the sages hold to their 
theory that one can fulfil: his duty in a borrowed Succah, and 
also that ground cannot be robbed; therefore it is valid, because 
it is considered as’ a borrowed Succah. But if one has robbed 
wood, and madea roof, according to all, the owner of the wood 
has only to claim his money, but the wood becomes the property 
of the robber, and the Succah is valid. And he infers this from 
the expression of the Mishna, ‘a robbed Succah or a roof made 
in public ground,” as in the latter case the ground was certainly 
not his, so also the robbed Succah means, that the ground was 
also not his and he has robbed it. 

It happened once that an old woman came to R. Na’hman 
and said: The exilarch, and all the sages of the house of the 
exilarch, are sitting in a robbed Succah. She complained, but 
he did not answer her. Said she again: A woman whose father 
had three hundred and eighteen slaves complains before you, and 
you do not pay attention. R.Na’hman said to the sages: The 
woman is only a prattler: she has to claim only the money for the 
wood that has been taken for the use of the Succah. 


44 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Rabhina said: If a beam of the roof of a Suecah has been 
robbed, the sages have arranged that only money for it should 
be returned to the owner, and not the beam itself. Is this not 
self-evident? What is the difference between a beam and wood, 
as just mentioned above? One might say wood can be found in 
any place, and one can buy it for the money; but a beam, which 
is not so common, should be returned. They come to teach us 
that during the seven days of the festival, one can lay claim only 
to money, but after the festival it must be returned, provided one 
has not attached it with clay; but if one has, even after the seven 
days only the money shall be given. 

We have learned in a Boraitha: A withered palm branch is 
invalid, but R. Jehudah makes it valid. Said Rabha: They differ 
only about a Lulab that is rabbinical. The sages hold that we 
compare a Lulab to a citron: as the citron must be beautiful, be- 
cause it is written hadar (beauty), so the Lulab must be beauti- 
ful; and R. Jehudah does not hold this theory, and says that a 
Lulab need not be beautiful, but a withered citron, according to 
all, is invalid. Does R. Jehudah require that a citron shall be 
beautiful? Did we not learn in a Boraitha: The four kinds that 
are with the Lulab, as there must not be less, so nothing shall be 
added to them? If one did not find a citron, he cannot replace 
it with a lemon or a pomegranate, or anything else; and if they are 
withered they are valid, but if dried, then invalid. R. Jehudah, 
however, said: Even when dry, they are valid. And he says 
again: The inhabitants of great cities used to transmit their 
Lulabs to their grandchildren. And they answered him: This 
cannot prove, because the places where such things are rarities do 
not prove. Hence we see that R. Jehudah said that even dry 
ones are valid, and this includes also citrons? Nay, R. Jehudah 
meant only the Lulab when he said dry ones are valid. 

The text says: “If he cannot find a citron, he shall not re- 
place it with a lemon,” etc. Is not this self-evident ? One might 
say, he shall replace it with something, lest the command of a 
citron should be forgotten: it comes to teach us that if it would 
be done so, the later generations might use such things forever. 
Come and hear: An old citron is invalid, but R. Jehudah says it is 
valid. Is this not a contradiction to the saying of Rabha* above, 
that R. Jehudah meant only the Lulab, and not a citron? Yea, it is 





* The name of Rabha is not mentioned above, but it must have been known to 
him that Rabha said so, 


TRACT SUCCAH. 45 


a contradiction. But how can R. Jehudah say that an old one is 
valid? Is it not written Aadar (beautiful)? R. Jehudah explains 
the word Aadar* not to mean “ beauty,” but “dwelling”; that 
means, a fruit which dwells on its tree the whole year. 

“ Tf the point was broken off.” Said R. Huna: If it is broken 
off; but if it is only split, it is valid. But have we not learned 
in a Boraitha: A bristly Lulab or one crooked like a scythe, a 
split one, a hardened one, is invalid. But if it seems hardened, 
and in reality is not, it is valid. Hence we see that a split one 
is also invalid? Said R. Papa: By “split” is here meant one 
growing as a fork, into two different directions. ‘Crooked like 
a scythe,” said Rabha; “ that is only if it is bent forward, but if 
backward it is natural, and it is valid.” Said R. Na’hman: If 
bent sideways, it is as if forward. According to others, R. 
Na’hman says it is as if bent backward. Rabha said again: A 
Lulab that has all the leaves on one side, and on the other side 
none at all, is blemished and is invalid. 

“ Tf the leaves were torn off.” Said R. Papa: By torn off is 
meant that it is made like a broom. What is meant by dissev- 
ered? When the leaves grow as branches of a tree, in different 
directions. 

R. Papa put a question: If the “twins” of the Lulab are 
divided, how is the law (the double leaves on a palm branch are 
called “ twins”)? Come and hear: R. Mathun in the name of 
R. Joshuah b. Levi said: If the “twins” are divided, it is as if 
the leaves were torn off, and it is invalid. 

“R. Jehudah says,” etc. We have learned in a Boraitha : 
R. Jehudah said in the name of R. Tarphon: The expression 
“ branches of palm trees” is Kapoth Tmarim. As the word ka- 
poth signifies in Aramaic “bound,” “tied,” if the Lulab was 
separated, it must be tied together. Said Rabhina to R. Ashi: 
How is it known that by Kapoth Tmarim is meant a young 
Lulab that has been the first year on the tree? Perhaps the 
branches are meant when they are two or three years old, when 
the leaves spread on all sides? We require that they shall be 
tied together, and in that case they cannot be tied at all. 

“A Lulab from the Iron Mount.” Said Abayi: The case is 
only when the top of one reaches the lower part of the one that 
grows over it; but if not, they are invalid. 





* The word Aadar in Hebrew has two meanings: ‘‘ Beauty” ; and dar means 
‘* dwelling ” (see Ps. Ixxxiv. 41), Hence R. Jehudah explains this in the latter sense. 


46 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


“A Lulab three spans long.’ ‘Said R. Jehudah in the name 
of Samuel: The prescribed size for a myrtle bough:and willow is 
three spans, and of the Lulab four, so that the Lulab shall be 
one span higher than the myrtle bough and willow when they 
are tied. R. Parnach in the name of R. Johanan said: (Not 
the leaves, but) the back of the Lulab, should be one span higher. 
Come and hear: The prescribed size of a myrtle bough and 
willow is three spans, of a Lulab four spans: is it not meant 
with the leaves? Nay, it is meant, besides the leaves. The 
Boraitha says farther on: R. Tarphon says: It shall be measured 
with an ell of five spans. ‘Said Rabha: May the Lord forgive R. 
Tarphon for such teaching: A myrtle bough of three spans is not 
to be found, and he calls for a myrtle bough of the length of five 
spans. When Rabbin came from Palestine, he said that R. 
Tarphon meant to say so: An ell which was five spans, consider 
it as if it was six spans, and-three spans of this take off for the 
myrtle bough, and the remainder, which is about two and a half, 
for the Lulab. If it is so, then it is a contradiction to Samuel, 
for according to R: Tarphon the myrtle bough would be only 
two and a half spans, and Samuel said it must be three spans? 
Samuel was not particular in his decision, and said more rigor- 
ously, three. But, nevertheless, R. Huna says in his name that 
the Halakha prevails according to R. Tarphon. 

MISHNA: A: myrtle bough which has been acquired by 
theft, or which is dry, is not valid. One which comes from a 
grove or from a rejected town is invalid. If the tip has been 
broken off, or the leaves torn off, or if one has on it more berries 
than leaves, it is invalid; if the berries are diminished in num- 
ber it becomes valid, but this must not be done on the festival. 
A willow of the brook, which has been acquired by theft, or 
which is dry, is invalid. One which comes from a grove, or 
a rejected town, is not valid. If the point has been broken. off, 
or the leaves torn off, or if it be a Tzaphizapha,* it is invalid. 
One which is faded, or from which some leaves have dropped 
off, or which has grown on dry ground (not near a bank), is 
valid. 

GEMARA: The rabbis taught: It is written: “ Boughs of 
the myrtle tree”; that is, a tree whose branches cover the whole 
tree, and this is only a myrtle tree. Rabha said: We take a 
myrtle bough because it is written [Zechariah, viii. 19]: “ Only 





* The Gemara will explain the term. 











a 


TRACT SUCCAH. 47 


love ye the truth and peace ” (as a myrtle is an emblem of peace 
and love, therefore we take it on the festival).* 

The rabbis taught: A branch that is twined like a chain, that 
is the myrtle. R. Eliezer b. Jacob says: It is written: “The 
branch of a twined tree.” That means, a tree whose trunk and 
fruit have the same taste, and that isa myrtle. In a Boraitha we 
have learned: A branch that is twined, is valid; if not, it is in- 
valid. What is meant by twined? Said R. Jehudah: On each 
stem are three leaves. R. Kahna however, says: Even if on one 
stem are two, and on the other one, it is also reckoned three. R. 
Avha the son of Rabha was looking for a myrtle bough which had 
two and one and two and one because this has been announced 
by R. Kahna. Said Mar bar Amemar to R. Ashi: My father 
calls such a myrtle a wild myrtle. 

The rabbis taught: If the greater number of leaves have 
dropped, and on three stems they remained, it is valid. The 
rabbis taught: If the greater part of the leaves on the bough 
have dried up and only three twigs, each containing three leaves, 
remained, it is valid. Said R. Hisda, provided that the remainder 
are on the top of each. 

“Tf the tip has been broken off.’ Ulla bar Hinna taught: If 
the tip has been broken off, and in its place is a green fruit like a 
date (Rashi explains this, that on the top of a myrtle there happen 
to be green fruits, with which women paint their vails), it is valid. 
R. Jeremiah put a question: If the tip had been broken off on the 
eve of the festival, and this green fruit grew up on the festival, how 
is the law? Shall it be said that, because it was not fit on the 
eve, it has been rejected, and cannot be used any more; or, the 
law of rejecting does not apply to religious duties? This question 
is not decided. Shall we assume that this is a point of difference 
between the following Tanaim: We have learned: If one has 
transgressed, and cut off the berries on the festival, it is invalid, 
according to R. Elazer b. R. Zodok; but according to the sages 
it is valid? Must we not assume that he who says it is invalid 
does it because he holds the law of rejecting applies to religious 
duties, and as this branch with the berries was rejected on the 
eve of the festival, it was rejected for the whole festival, and he 
who says it is valid does so because he holds that the law of 
rejecting does not apply to religious duties? Nay, all agree that 





* Rashi explains it in another manner, which is complicated. We, however, 
think that our explanation is right. 


48 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


the law of rejecting applies to the positive commandments of re- 
ligious duties, but in this case they differ whether a Lulab must 
‘be tied or not, as on this point differ the Tanaim of the following 
Boraitha: A Lulab, whether tied or not, is valid. R. Jehudah, 
however, said: A tied one is valid; if not, it is invalid. What is 
the reason of R. Jehudah? He infers it from an analogy of 
expression. It is written here [Lev. xxiii. 40]: “Ye shall take 
unto yourselves on the first day,” and [in Ex. xii. 22] “and ye 
shall take a bunch of hyssop ”; as there it is plainly written a bunch, 
so also here it must be tied as a bunch, and the sages do not 
take into consideration this analogy of expression. * 

“Tf one has more berries on it than leaves.” RR. Hisda said: 
The following thing said our great rabbi (¢.e., Rabh), and the 
Lord come to his help: The case is only if it was in one place, 
but if the berries were in two or three places, then it is valid. 
Said Rabha to him: If it was in two or three places, it seems 
spotted, and it is invalid? Therefore if such a thing was taught, 
it was taught thus, said R. Hisda: The following thing our great 
rabbi said, and may God come to his help: The case is only 
when the berries were black; but if they were green, they are the 
same as the myrtle bough, and it is valid. 

“Tf they have been diminished in number,” etc. They have 
been diminished in number when? If before it was tied, it is 
self-evident, and if after it was tied, then it was rejected for the 
festival, and how made good? Infer from this that the law of 
rejecting does not apply to religious duties! Nay, we can say 
that the case is even after it had been tied, but the Tana of the 
Mishna holds that the tying is not considered a construction, but 
only a preparation, and does not therefore count it. 

The rabbis taught: They must not be diminished in number 
on the festival. In the name of R. Eliezer bar Simeon, however, 
it was said: It may be done. But is not this like repairing a 
utensil on the festival? Said R. Ashi: R. Eliezer means to say, 
that if he took off the berries for the purpose of eating, and he 
holds as his father, that a thing which was done unintentionally 
is allowed. 

The rabbis taught: If the dzading of the Lulab was loosened 
on the festival, one shall tie it as he usually ties a bundle of herbs. 
Why? Let him tie it into a loop (not a knot). That is according 
to R. Jehudah, who said in Sabbath (p. 233), that tying into a loop 





* See page 14, lines 32-37, beginning ‘* But according,” etc., which also belong 
here. 


— 


TRACT SUCCAH. 49 


is like a knot, for either is culpable. But according to R. Jehu- 
dah the Lulab must be tied not as a bundle of herbs, but in a 
good knot? This Tana holds as R. Jehudah in one thing, and 
differs from him in the other. 

“ 4 willow of the brook,’ etc. Therabbis taught: It is written: 
“ A willow of the brook.” That means, they usually grow near 
every brook. According to others, the willow of the brook means 
that it has leaves smooth as a brook. In another Boraitha we 
have learned: The willows of the brook! Whence do we deduce 
that willows from dry ground and mountains are valid? It is 
written “ willows,” in the plural: all are included. Abba Shaul, 
however, said: The plural signifies that two are needed: one for 
the Lulab.and one for the Temple. And whence do the rabbis 
deduce that one for the Temple? They hold it is Sinaic (as will 
be explained farther on). 

_ The rabbis taught: Willows of the brook, that grow only at 
brooks; but the 7zaphtzapha, which grows only between moun- 
tains, is excepted. 

The rabbis taught: How can we recognize what is a willow 
and what is a 7zaphtzapha? The willow’s stem is red, with the 
leaves elongated and their edges smooth. But a Tzaphizapha has 
the stem white, and the leaves round, and their edges like a 
scythe. But have we not learned, if it is like a scythe, it is valid, 
and when like a saw it is invalid? Said Abayi: This we learned 
of the willows of Hilpha Gila: they are valid. Abayisaid again: 
We may infer from this that the same willows may be used for 
the seventh day when Hosha’uoth are used. Is not this self- 
evident? One would say that because the willows of Hilpha 
Gila have an additional name, they are not valid, he comes to 
teach that it is not so. But perhapsit isso? Because it is written 
in the plural, all are included. 

MISHNA: R. Ishmael says: Three myrtle boughs, two wil- 
lows, one palm branch, and one citron are needed. If two out of 
the three myrtle boughs had the tips broken off, they may be 
used. R. Tarphon says: Even if all three should have the tips 
broken off. R. Agiba says: As one Lulab and one citron are 
needed, so are only one myrtle bough and one willow needed. 

GEMARA: We have learned ina Boraitha: It is written: 
“The fruit of the tree Zadar,” in the singular, one fruit; “a 
branch of a palm tree,” in the singular,* one branch; “ boughs 





* The word Xafath: is written in the singular, but is read Kapoth, in the plural. 
4 


50 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


of the myrtle tree,” in the plural, three; and “ willows of the 
brook,” also in the plural, two. And even if two had the 
tips broken off, it is valid. R.Tarphon, however, said: Three 
are needed; and if all the tips are broken off, it does not matter. 
R. Agqiba said: As the Lulab and the citron are only one, so of 
the myrtle boughs and the willows is needed only one. Said R. 
Eliezer to him: According to thee, the citron must be tied 
together with the Lulab? And he answered: Did the verse say : 
“The fruit of the tree hadar and a branch of a palmtree”? It 
mentions them separately. If so, whence do we know that one 
depends upon the other? Because it is written: “ Ye shall take.” 
That means, you shall take all things that are enumerated, and 
not one without the other. How shall we imagine the case, 
according to R. Ishmael? If all kinds have to be entire, why 
are the myrtle boughs allowed if they are broken? And if it is 
not required that they should be entire, let even the other kinds, 
if broken, be used? Said Birah in the name of R. Ammi: R. 
Ishmael retracted this decision. Said R. Jehudah in the name of 
Samuel: The Halakha prevails according to R. Tarphon, and 
Samuel said this according to his theory, because he said to the 
sellers of the myrtles: Make the price lower, and if you will not 
do so, I will lecture that the Halakha prevails according to R. 
Tarphon. Let him then lecture according to R. Aqiba, who is 
more lenient, and says only one is needed? Three with the tips 
roken are more easily procurable than one uninjured. 

MISHNA: A citron which has been robbed, or is withered, 
is invalid. One coming from a grove or a rejected town is in- 
valid. One taken off atree less than three years old* is not 
valid. Nor one taken from heave-offering that is unclean. From 
clean heave-offering a man is not to take a citron; but if he has 
taken, he has fulfilled his duty. One taken from Demaz (fruit 
from which it is doubtful whether the legal dues have been paid) 
Beth Shammai hold invalid, but Beth Hillel hold it valid. A 
man is not to take a citron from second tithe in Jerusalem; but 
if he has taken one, he has done his duty. If a stain spread over 
the greater portion of the citron, if it has lost its crown, or the 
fine rind has been peeled off, or if it is split, or perforated, if ever 
so little thereof is wanting, it is not valid. If, however, the stain 
is spread over the smaller portion of the citron, if it has lost its 
stalk, or if that be perforated (but the citron itself is entire) so 





* Lev. xix. 23. 




















TRACT SUCCAH. sr 


that no part, however small, be wanting, it is valid. A dark- 
colored one is invalid, a leek-green one R. Meir pronounces valid, 
but R. Jehudah invalid. 

The minimum size of a small citron, R. Meir says, is like a nut ; 
R. Jehudah says, like an egg; and of a large citron, that one can 
hold two in one hand. So is the decree of R. Jehudah; but R. 
Jose says, even one must be taken with both hands. 

GEMARA: The rabbis taught: The fruit of the tree hadar ; 
that is, a tree whose wood and fruit have the same taste, and that 
is a citron. Perhaps it is pepper, as we learn in the following 
Boraitha: R. Meir used to say: Because it is written [Lev. xix. 
23]: “ Plant any kind of tree, bearing edible fruit.” Why was it 
needed to say, a tree bearing edible fruit? Is it not self-evident 
that if it is bearing fruit it is edible? From this we infer that 
to pepper, whose wood and fruit have the same taste, the law of 
Arlah applies. And in the land of Israel nothing is lacking (even 
pepper), as it is written [Deut. viii. 9]: “A land... wherein 
thou shalt not lack anything’? Because it is impossible: how 
shall we do? Shall we take one pepper-grain, that will not be 
noticed at all, many of them; the law says one, not two or three; 
and therefore it cannot be. R. Abahu says: Do not read kadar, 
but ha-dar; that is, a thing that dwe/ls on its tree the whole 
year. Ben Azzai said: Do not read hadar, but adur, because in 
Greek they call water téwp, and that means a tree which can 
grow in all waters, and that is only a citron. 

“ One that comes from a grove,’ etc. Because it must be burned, 
and therefore it is considered to have no size. 

“ From a tree less than three years,” etc. Why so? R. Hiya 
bar Abbin and R. Assi differed: one says, because it is not 
allowed to eat it, it must not be used either; and one says, be- 
cause at that time it is worth nothing (because it must not be 
used for any purpose). 

R. Assi said: With a citron of second tithe, according to R. 
Meir, a man cannot fulfil his duty; but according to the sages, he 
can. The same is the case with Matzah of second tithe. And 
dough of second tithe, according to R. Meir, is exempt from 
Halah, and according to the sages, is not. 

“ From unclean heave-offering.” Because it is not allowed to eat 
it. And from clean heave-offering? ‘“ One shall not take,” etc. 
R. Ami and R. Assi differ: one says, because he makes it subject 
to defilement, and one says, because he spoils it (because, when he 
holds it in the hand, it gets black, and is spoiled). 


52 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


“ But tf he has taken, tt ts valid.” According to those who say 
that it must not be taken, because it is not allowed to be eaten, 
this law is according to all; and according to those who say be- 
cause it has no value, this Mishna is only in accordance with 
the rabbis, 

“ From Demat.” What is the reason of Beth Hillel? Because 
if one wishes, he can relinquish his estates, and then he would be 
poor, and he would be allowed to eat it; therefore now also we 
consider it proper. : 

“Tf a stain,’ etc. Said R. Hisda: The following thing our 
great rabbi said, may the Lord come to his help: The case is only 
when it is in one place (of the citron), but if it is in two or more 
places, it is like a spotted one, and is invalid. Said Rabha: On 
its top, even if it is but trifling, it is invalid. 

“ Its crown,” etc. R. Itzhak b. Elazar taught: The crown, 
but not the stalk at the bottom. 

“ Peeled off,” etc. Said Rabha: If a citron has been peeled, 
and gets the color of a red date, it is valid. But did we not learn 
in our Mishna that if peeled, it-is invalid? It presents no diffi- 
culty. If it was in part peeled off, it is like a spotted one, and 
invalid; but if entirely peeled, it is valid. 

“ Split or perforated,” etc. Ulla bar Hanina taught: When 
it is perforated through and through, even if it is trifling, it is 
invalid; but otherwise, then if the hole is of the size of an Jsar 
(a coin), it is also invalid, but if less it is valid. 

A citron that is swollen, ill-smelling, soaked, boiled, black or 
white, or spotted, is invalid. A citron round as a sphere (not 
elliptical) is invalid. According to some, twins (two growing to- 
gether) are also invalid. An unripe citron R. Agiba makes in- 
valid, and the sages do not. If it was made to grow in a mould, 
and it came out of an irregular shape, it is invalid. 

It was taught: “A citron that mice have perforated,” said 
Rabh, “ cannot be called beautiful.” 

“ And of a large citron,’etc. We have learned in a Boraitha: 
R. Jose said it once happened to R. Aqiba that he came to a 
prayer-house with his citron, and it was so large that he brought 
it on his shoulder. Said R. Jehudah to him: It proves nothing, 
because the sages told him then: This cannot be considered 
beautiful. 

MISHNA: The Lulab must only be tied with its own kind 
(threads of palm branches). So says R. Jehudah. But R. Meir 
says: It may be tied even with twine. R. Meir also said: It 








TRACT SUCCAH. 53 


happened that the inhabitants of Jerusalem tied a Lulab with 
gold lace. But the sages answered: Yes, they did so, but be- 
neath the gold lace they tied it with its own kind. 

GEMARA: Said Rabha: With the bark or the root of the 
same tree it may be tied. And he says again: What is the rea- 
son of R. Jehudah’s decree? Because according to him the 
Lulab must not be used unless it is tied, and if it be tied with 
another kind, it should be five kinds, and not four. He says 
again: Whence do I deduce that the bark and the root of the 
palm tree are considered of the same kind as the Lulab itself? 
From the following Boraitha: It is written: “ Ye shall dwell in 
booths.” That signifies, a booth of any materials: so is the de- 
cree of R. Meir. R. Jehudah, however, said: A booth must be 
made only of the four kinds used for the Lulab. And it seems 
to me that such is right, because if a Lulab which is used only in 
the day, and not in the night, must have the four kinds only, for 
a Succah which is used both by day and by night, so much the 
more are the four kinds needed. Replied the sages to him: 
Every law which is at the beginning more rigorous, and is finally 
more lenient, is no law at all. And our case, according to your 
opinion, if one did not find the four kinds, he should sit in his 
house, doing nothing; and the Torah says: “Seven days ye 
shall dwell in booths.” Therefore we say a Succah should be 
made of any materials. And so it is written in Nehemiah, viii. 15 : 
“Go forth unto the mountain and fetch olive leaves, and oleaster 
leaves, and myrtle leaves, and palm leaves, and leaves of the three- 
leaved myrtle to make booths.” R. Jehudah, however, ex- 
plains this verse thus: That olive leaves and oleaster leaves are 
for the walls of the Succah, and myrtle leaves, etc., are for the 
covering. And we have learned in a previous Mishna: It may 
be roofed with boards, so is the decree of R. Jehudah. Hence 
we see that, although R. Jehudah requires only the four kinds for 
the covering, nevertheless, if one has covered it with boards, it is 
valid, because the boards of the bark and of the roots of the same 
tree are considered by him of the same kind. But have we not 
learned in a Boraitha that if one has covered it with boards of 
cedar, it is valid according to R. Jehudah? By cedar is also 
meant myrtle, as Rabha bar R. Huna says elsewhere: There are 
ten kinds of cedar, and the myrtle is among them, as it is written 
[Is. xli. 19]: “I will place in the wilderness the cedar, the acacia, 
the myrtle.” 

Said Rabba to the men who tied the Hosha’noth for the 


54 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


exilarch : When you tie them, leave the breadth of a hand at the 
bottom ; there shall be no intervention between the hand and 
the Hosha’na.* Said Rabha: All that was made to beautify it, 
does not intervene. Rabba says again: A man shall not hold 
the Hosha’na through a cloth, because it is written: “ Ye shall 
take,” with your own hands. Rabha, however, said: Even if one 
takes it through another thing, it is still called taking. Rabba 
says again: After the Hosha’na and the myrtle bough have been 
tied, one shall not insert the Lulab, lest some leaves be torn off 
from them, and they will be an intervention between the Lulab 
and them. Rabba, however, said: A thing of the same kind 
makes no intervention. 

Rabba says again: A myrtle bough used for the religious 
purpose may not be smelled, but a citron may. Why so? Be- 
cause the myrtle is only used because of its odor, and as it has 
been designated for a religious purpose, it must not be smelled; 
but a citron, which is made for eating, has been designated only 
for eating, and may be smelled. The same authority says again: 
A myrtle attached to the ground may be smelled on the festival, 
but a citron must not. Whyso? Because a myrtle, which is used 
only for smelling, if one will be allowed to smell it, when yet at- 
tached to the ground, he will not cut off; but a citron, which is 
for eating, if he will be allawed to smell, he will cut off, and eat. 
He says again:. The Lulab must be held in the right hand, and 
the citron in the left hand. Why so? Because by the Lulab 
three duties are performed, and by the citron only one. 

Said R. Jeremiah to R. Zrika: Why do we pronounce the 
benediction over the Lulab only? Because it is higher than the 
other kinds. But let one raise the citron, and pronounce the ben- 
ediction over it? And he answered: Because by nature it grows 
higher than the other kinds. 

MISHNA: When must the Lulab be shaken? At the verse: 
“ Praise ye the Lord” (in the prayer), at the beginning and end- 
ing (of that part of the prayer), and at the verse: ‘‘O Lord, we 
beseech thee, save us”: so is the decree of Beth Hillel. But 
Beth Shammai hold, also at the verse: “O Lord, we beseech 
thee, prosper us.” R, Aqiba said: I watched Rabban Gamaliel 
and R. Joshuah (in the time of prayer), and I saw while all men 
shook the Lulabs at both the above-mentioned verses, they shook 
theirs only at: “O Lord,” etc., “save us.” 





* The Gemara calls Hosha’na the Lulab, and the myrtle bough and willow tied 
together, 


- 











bb 


TRACT SUCCAH. 55 


GEMARA: Where is it mentioned that it should be shaken? 
In the first Mishna of this chapter: it teaches, a Lulab which is 
three spans long “ sufficient to shake it by” ; and now it is asked, 
When shall it be shaken? Said R. Johanan: The shaking shall 
be towards all four sides—to the Creator, that all the sides are 
His; and it shall be raised and lowered to Him to whom the 
heaven and the earth belong. In the West they taught so: R. 
Hama bar Ugqba in the name of R. Jose bar Hanina said: He 
shall shake towards all sides, to prevent bad winds; and up and 
down, to prevent bad dews. 

MISHNA: If one is on the road, and has no Lulab, he must, 
when he gets home, shake it before his meal. If he has not done 
it in the morning, he must do it toward evening, as the duty may 
be done during the whole day. 

If a slave, woman, or minor reads hadlle/ (see Pesachim, Chap. 
X., pp. 242-46) to a man, he should repeat. after them word for 
word, but it is a disgrace to him (not to have learned to read). 
If a grown man reads to him, he only responds “ Hallelujah.” At 
the places where certain verses are said twice, he is to do so. 
Where they are recited once, he must do so. Where a bene- 
diction is said after the Lulab, he must say it. In every case he 
must do as is the custom of the country. 

GEMARA: Rabha said: Great Halakhoth can be inferred 
from the custom of saying Hallel: From the custom of our time, 
when almost all men can read the Hallel themselves, never- 
theless they repeat the beginnings of the chapters after the reader, 
we may infer what are the essential portions of Hallel, and how 
it was done in the ancient times, when the people could not read 
themselves, and a man was wanted to read it, for them to repeat 
after him. The Mishna says: He responds “ Hallelujah.” From 
this we see that Hallelujah is of the essential portions which must 
be responded. We see also in our time, when the reader begins: 
“ Praise, O ye servants of the Lord,” and the people respond, 
“ Hallelujah,” we may infer that if a grown man is the reader 
of the Hallel, it is sufficient for the hearer to respond “ Halle- 
lujah,” and not to repeat the whole chapter (part of the prayer). 
From what we see, that when the reader says, “ Praise ye the 
Lord,” they also repeat, “‘ Praise ye the Lord,” we infer that it is 
a merit to repeat the first verses of the chapter. 

[It was also taught: R. Hanan bar Rabha said: It is a merit 
to repeat the first verses of the chapter.] When the reader says: 
“O Lord, save us,” they should repeat it. If the reader is a 


56 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


minor, however, one must repeat after him word for word. When 
he says: “O Lord, prosper us,” they repeat it, and from this we 
see that if one wishes to say it twice, he may do so. When he 
says, “ Blessed be he that cometh,” they respond, “in the name 
of the Lord.” From this we see that he who listens to the prayer 
is equal to him who himself repeats it. 

R. Hiya bar Abba was asked: If one has listened to the 
prayer, and not responded, how is the law? And he answered: 
The sages, the scribes, the heads of the people, the preachers, all 
have decided that he who has listened, and not answered, has ful- 
filled his duty. 

“At the places where verses are said twice,” etc. We have 
learned in a Boraitha: Rabbi used to say twice in the Hallel same 
parts. R. Elazar b. Parta has added parts to the same prayer. 
What is meant by “added”? Said Abayi: He added the man- 
ner of saying twice every verse from the 2Ist verse of Psalm 
cxviii. to the end of that psalm. 

“ When it ts the custom to say a benediction,” etc. Said Abayi, 
that is only at the end of the Hallel; but before, it is not a cus- 
tom, but obligatory. As R.Jehudah said inthe name of Samuel: 
All the religious duties must have a benediction pronounced be- 
fore they are performed. 

MISHNA: If one buys a Lulab from a man of the common 
people in a Sabbatical year, he shall ask of him that the citron 
shall be given to him as a gift, because it is not allowed to buy a 
citron in the Sabbatical year. 

GEMARA: But how is the law if the seller does not want 
to give him this as a gift? Said R. Huna: He shall include the 
price of the citron in the price for the Lulab. Why? Let him 
give it to him publicly? Because one must not give money for 
fruits forbidden to be sold on the Sabbatical year to a man of 
the common people. As we have learned in a Boraitha: One 
must not give money for fruit on the Sabbatical year to a man of 
the common people more than is sufficient for three meals; and 
if one has done it, he shall say: This money that I give to this 
man shall be exchanged for the fruit which I have in my house, 
and after that he uses the fruit which he has had in the house 
only for purposes for which fruit of the Sabbatical year may be 
used. When is that the case? When he saw that the man sold 
to him fruit from a field left to the public, which had no owner; 
but if he sold it from his own field, one must not buy even 
for half an zsar. If it is so, why only the citron? What is the 








TRACT SUCCAH. 57 


case with the palm branch? The Lulab cannot be of the Sab- 
batical year, because it had been ripe on the sixth year. But the 
same is the case with the citron? In case of a citron, it is not 
counted from the time of its ripeness, but its removal from the 
tree (as is explained in Tract Rosh Hashana, p. 19). But we 
know that according to both R. Gamaliel and R. Eliezer, in refer- 
ence to the Sabbatical year, in case of the citron it is counted 
from the time of its budding. As we have learned in the follow- 
ing Mishna: The citron is equal to a tree in three respects, and 
to herbs in one respect—to a tree in three respects, to wit: Of 
arla (the first three years), rebaz (the fourth year) [Lev. xix. 
22-24], and of the Sabbatical year, in reference to which it is 
counted from the time of its budding; and to a herb in one 
respect, that it must be tithed when it is gathered (¢.¢., the tithe 
must be used for the purpose of that year). So is the decree of 
Rabban Gamaliel. R. Eliezer, however, said: A citron is equal 
to a tree in all respects (hence we see that all agree that in refer- 
ence to the Sabbatical year it is counted in case of the citron 
from the time of its ripeness, not of its budding). The Tana of 
our Mishna holds as the Tana of the following Boraitha: R. 
Jose said: Abtulmus testified in the name of five elders, thus: 
The citron must be counted from the time when it is gathered 
for tithe. Our Masters, however, have voted and decided in the 
city of Usha that in reference both to tithe and Sabbatical year 
it is to be counted from the time of its gathering. But where 
is here mentioned the Sabbatical year? The Boraitha is not 
completed, and must read thus: The citron is counted when 
gathered in reference to tithe, and from budding in reference to 
the Sabbatical year. Our Masters in Usha, however, have de- 
cided that in both cases it is counted from the time of the 
gathering. 

R. Elazar said: The fruit of the Sabbatical year does not 
become exchanged, unless it is done in the manner of buying and 
selling. R. Johanan, however, said: It becomes exchanged even 
through exchanging. What is the reason of R. Elazar? Be- 
cause it is written [Lev. xxv. 13]: “In this year of the jubilee,” 
and the next verse says, “shall he sell,” from this we infer, only 
through buying and selling. What is the reason of R. Johanan? 
Because it is written [ibid., ibid. 12]: “ For it is the jubilee, holy 
shall it be unto you”’; and as in case of all holiness there is no 
difference between selling and exchanging, the same is the case 
with the fruit of the Sabbatical year. We have learned in one 


58 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Boraitha in accordance with R. Elazar, and in another Boraitha we 
have learned in accordance with R. Johanan. 

A Boraitha according to R. Elazar: The Sabbatical year holds 
the money exchanged for its fruit, because it is written: “It isa 
jubilee year and shall be holy.” As the holy things hold the 
money exchanged for it, and makes it holy, so also do the fruit 
of the Sabbatical year. But should we assume, as the holy things 
become ordinary, when exchanged, the same shall be with the 
Sabbatical year, therefore it is written: “Jt shall be”—which 
means, so shall it stay. How so? J/e., if one bought for its 
fruit meat, both must be destroyed; if, however, he bought fish 
for the meat, the fish becomes its substitute, and the meat is free; 
the fish, again, exchanged for wine, the latter becomes the sub- 
stitute. The same is the case when the latter is exchanged for 
wine: the very last always becomes the substitute of the pre- 
ceding one, except the original fruit, which remains as it was. 
Now, then, when the Boraitha mentions at every exchange the 
word “ lokah,” which means bought, we may infer from it that 
it was done only by purchase, but not by exchange (hence R. 
Elazar’s opinion). 

A Boraitha according to R. Johanan: Both the fruit of the 
Sabbatical year and of the second tithe may be exchanged for 
wild game, cattle, and fowl when they are either alive or slaugh- 
tered. So is the decree of R. Meir. But the sages say that only 
for slaughtered ones, but when alive they must not be taken in 
exchange, lest he shall raise a herd from them. Said Rabha: 
They differ only as to males,.but females, all agree that only 
slaughtered ones may be exchanged, but not living ones, for the 
precautionary measure stated above. 

Said R. Ashi: They differ only about the fruit exchanged 
already for the Sabbatical fruit, but about the Sabbatical fruit 
itself all agree, only through selling and not through exchanging. 
But have we not learned in a Boraitha: The fruit of the Sabbat- 
ical year and second tithe may be exchanged for animals, wild 
beasts, and fowls? By this is meant, not the fruit but the money 
obtained for it. And this must be so, because it is mentioned 
together with second tithe, and by second tithe could not be 
meant the fruit itself, because it is written [Deut. xiv. 25]: “ Bind 
up the money in thy hand.” 

MISHNA: Formerly the Lulab was used in the Temple all 
the seven days of the festival; in the country, however, only one 
day. When the Temple was destroyed, R. Johanan b. Zakkai 








TRACT SUCCAH. 59 


ordained: In the country it shall also be used all the seven days, 
in memory of the Temple. He ordained also at the same time 
that on the sixteenth day of Nissan, called the day of Noph (the 
day of waving the omer: Lev. xxiii. 11), it should not be allowed 
to eat new grain. 

GEMARA: Whence do we infer that it must be done in 
memory of the Temple? Said R. Johanan: Because it is written 
[Jeremiah, xxx. 17]: “ This is Zion, whom no one seeketh after.” 
From this we infer that it must be sought after. 

“ The day of Noph,’ etc. What is the reason? Said R. 

va’hman bar Itz’hak: R. Johanan b. Zakkai said this in accord- 
ance with the system of R. Jehudah, who said that it is biblically 
prohibited to eat the whole day, because it is written [Lev. xxiii. 
14], “ until the self-same day ” ; and the self-same day means this 
day shall be included. Does R. Johanan b. Zakkai indeed hold 
with R. Jehudah, did he not differ from him? As we learn in 
the following Mishna: When the Temple was destroyed, R. 
Johanan b. Zakkai ordained that the whole day of Noph it shall 
be prohibited. And R. Jehudah said to him: Why such an 
ordinance? Is it not biblically prohibited, as it is written, “on 
the self-same day,” which means to include the whole day? R. 
Jehudah erred, because he thought R. Johanan b. Zakkai in- 
tended to make his ordinance rabbinical, and it was not so; R. 
Johanan b. Zakkai ordained this biblically. If biblically, what 
is meant by the expression “ordained”? Read: He lectured 
that this is biblical and so ordained. 

MISHNA: If the first day of the festival falls on a Sabbath, 
the people bring their Lulabs to the synagogue on the eve of 
Sabbath and leave them there, and on the next morning they 
come early to synagogue, and each seeks out his own Lulab, and 
performs with it his duty, because the sages hold that the duty 
cannot be fulfilled on the first day by means of a Lulab belong- 
ing to his neighbor; but it can be fulfilled on the subsequent 
days of the festival. 

R. Jose says: If the first day of the festival falls on the Sab- 
bath, and one carries out the Lulab into public ground through 
forgetfulness, he is not culpable, because he carried it out with 
the intention to do a religious duty. 

GEMARA: Whence is this deduced? From what the rabbis 
taught: It is written [Lev. xxiii. go]: “ Ye shall take,” that 
means, it shall be taken with the hand; “ unto yourselves,” it 
shall be your own, but not a borrowed one or robbed one; and 


60 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


from this the sages said that one cannot fulfil his duty with the 
Lulab of his neighbor on the first day, unless he has made of it - 
a present to him. And it happened to Rabban Gamaliel, R. 
Joshuah, R. Elazar b. Azariah, and R. Aqiba, when they were 
on board a ship, that they had but one Lulab, which was the 
property of Rabban Gamaliel, who had bought it for a thousand 
Zuz; and R. Gamaliel performed with it his duty, and then made 
of it a present to R. Joshuah; R. Joshuah did the same, and 
gave it away to R. Elazar, who did the same, and gave it asa 
present to R. Aqiba; and R. Agiba, after having fulfilled his 
duty, returned it to Rabban Gamaliel. To what purpose do 
they tell us that R. Agiba returned it to Rabban Gamaliel? It 
is to teach us by the way, that a present with the condition that 
it shall be returned after, is called a present. As Rabha said 
elsewhere: “If one say: I present to you this citron to fulfil 
your duty with it, and afterwards you shall return it to me,” if 
the man returned it afterwards, he had fulfilled his duty, but if 
he failed to return it, it is not counted as anything. And to 
what purpose do they tell us that he bought it for a thousand 
Zuz? To let us know how dear to them were religious duties. 
Said Mar bar Amemar to R. Ashi: My father used to pray, 
holding the Lulab in his hand. We have learned in a Boraitha: 
_R. Elazar * bar Zadok says: So was the custom of the men of 
Jerusalem: when one was going out of his house, the Lulab was 
in his hand; when he went to the house of prayer, the Lulab 
was in his hand; when he read the Shema and prayed, the Lulab 
was in his hand; when he read in the Torah and raised his hands 
(when a priest) to bless Israel, he laid it away on the floor, and 
afterwards took it up. If he went to visit the sick, or console 
mourners, the Lulab was in his hand. When he went, however, 
to the house of learning, he sent it away through his son, or 
servant, or messenger. To what purpose is all thistold? To let 
us know how mindful they were of religious duties. 

“ R. Jose said,” etc. Said Abayi: He is not culpable so long 
as he has not fulfilled his duty with it; but if he has, he is. But 
has not the duty been performed as soon as he has taken it into 
his hand and raised it? Said Abayi: It means, if he carried it 
out inverted (because the duty is not fulfilled so long as he does 
not hold it as it grows). Rabha said: Even if he has not in- 
verted it, but carried it out in a vessel. But did not Rabha him- 





* See foot-note in Tract Pesachim, p. 78. 





TRACT SUCCAH. 61 


self say that taking through any other thing is called taking? 
That is, if he took it thus to honor it; but if in a vessel not 
appropriate to a Lulab, it is not called taking. 

MISHNA: A woman may receive a Lulab out of the hand 
of her son or of her husband, and put it back into water on the 
Sabbath. R.Jehudah says: On the Sabbath it may be put back, 
on the festival they may add fresh water, and on the intermediate 
days they may change the -water. A minor who understands 
how to shake the Lulab is bound to perform that duty. 

GEMARA: Is this not self-evident? Lest one say, that be- 
cause the Lulab is not obligatory for a woman, she must not 
handle it, it comes to teach us that she may. 

“ A minor,” etc. The rabbis taught: A minor who knows how 
to shake the Lulab is bound to perform this duty. If he knows 
how to wrap himself in a cloth, he is bound to perform the duty 
of Tzitzith; if he is able to take care of Tefilin, his father may 
buy for him Tefilin. As soon as he can talk, his father shall 
teach him the Torah, and to read Shema. [What is meant by 
Torah? Said R. Hamnuna: The verse of Deuteronomy, xxxiii. 
4: “ The law which Moses commanded us is the inheritance of the 
congregation of Jacob.” What is meant by Shema? The first 
verse.] (The Boraitha says farther on): If he knows how to 
slaughter animals, it may be eaten of his slaughtering. Said R. 
Huna: Only if an adult was standing by. If he is capable to eat 
bread the size of an olive, one must remove from him to the dis- 
tance of four ells (if one has to pray or to study), on certain occa- 
sions. Says R. Hisda: This is only if he can eat the piece of 
bread in the same length of time that a grown person can eat 
bread of the size of three eggs, or more. Said R. Hiya the son 
of R. Yeba: In the case of a grown man who is sick and unable 
to eat as much, in the above-mentioned length of time, one must 
nevertheless remove four ells. Because it is written [Eccl. i. 18]: 
“Where there is much wisdom, there is much vexation.” If the 
minor is able to eat roasted meat of the size of an olive, the 
Paschal offering may be slaughtered for him, as it is written [Ex. 
xii. 4]: “ Every man according to what he eateth.” R. Jehudah, 
however, said: It must not be given to him until he is able to 
distinguish. How? If he is given a chip, he drops it; but a nut, 
he accepts it. 


CHAPTER IV. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE FOUR*KINDS TIED WITH THE LULAB, 
CONCERNING HALLEL, POURING THE WATER ON THE ALTAR, 


MISHNA: The Lulab and willow to surround the altar were 
sometimes used on six days, and sometimes on seven days of the 
festival. The Hallel and the eating of peace-offerings took place 
on eight days. The dwelling in the Succah and the pouring out 
of water lasted seven days, and the pipes were played on some- 
times five, sometimes six days. In which case was the Lulab 
used seven days? When the first holy day of the festival fell 
on a Sabbath, the Lulab was used on seven days; but when 
the first day of the festival fell on any other day of the week, 
the Lulab was only used six days. In which case was the willow 
used on seven days? When the seventh day of the willow hap- 
pened to fall on a Sabbath, the willow was used seven days; 
but when the seventh day fell on any other day of the weck, 
the willow was only used six days. How was the command to 
take the Lulab fulfilled when the first holy day of the festival 
fellon a Sabbath? It was the custom that every man brought 
his Lulab to the Temple mount, where it was received by in- 
spectors, who deposited it in a gallery. The elders placed theirs 
in a separate chamber, and the people were taught to say: Who- 
ever gets hold of my Lulab, be it his as a gift. On the next 
morning the people came early; the inspectors threw all the 
Lulabs down before them; every man seized on one, and it often 
happened that they hurt each other. When the Beth Din saw 
that the people were thus exposed to danger, they ordained that 
every man was to use his Lulab in his own house. 

GEMARA: Why? It is only handling it, and as the com- 
mandment of this is biblical, that it shall be taken in the Temple 
all the seven days, why shall it not be preferred to Sabbath? 
Said Rabba: As a precautionary measure, lest one take it into 
his hand to go with it to an expert to learn the performance, and 
at the same time one will carry it four ells in public ground. 
And the same reason is with the cornet, and the same reason is 





TRACT SUCCAH. 63 


with the Book of Esther, when Purim falls on Sabbath. If it is 
so, let it be forbidden even on the first day of the festival? On 
the first day of the festival, was it not ordained that it shall be 
used in the house, as mentioned above? Yea, that was after it 
was ordained; but what was the case before it was ordained? 
Therefore we must say, that the reason is because for the first 
day, which is biblical even in the country, the rabbis did not 
take the precautionary measure; but the other days, which for 
‘ the country is only rabbinical, the rabbis took it. If it is so, why 
shall we not take it now on the first day, when it falls on Sab- 
bath? If one may say, because we do not know exactly the 
calendar, why do the Palestinians, who know exactly the calen- 
dar, not carry it on Sabbath? Yea, they did so, even after the 
Temple was destroyed, as we have learned in the Mishna above 
that the people brought their Lulabs to the Temple mount; and 
another Mishna said, they brought it to the prayer-house, from 
which we may infer that in the time of the Temple they took it to 
the Temple mount, and after its destruction they took it into the 
house of prayer. But whence do we deduce that in the country 
it is biblically obligatory on the first day? From the following 
Boraitha: It is written: “Ye shall take.” That signifies, it shall 
be taken with the hand. “Unto yourselves,” it shall be your 
own, excluding a borrowed or a robbed one; “on the day,” 
even on Sabbath; “the first,” even in the country. “The first,” 
from this we infer that only when the first day falls on Sabbath 
it must be taken, but not on the other days. The text says, 
“the day,” to include Sabbath. Let us see. This is only hand- 
ling. Do we need a biblical verse to allow handling? Said 
Rabba: It is meant to allow the preparing of the Lulab, and this 
is in accordance with the Tana of the following Boraitha: The 
Lulab and all its preparations violate the Sabbath. So is the 
decree of R. Eliezer. And the reason of R. Eliezer is, because 
it is written, “the day,” it is meant the Sabbath. 

The rabbis taught: It is written: “In booths shall ye dwell 
seven days.” “Days” signifies the nights also; but perhaps 
only the days are meant, and not the nights? And it would be 
an analogy of expression: it is written here “the days,” and 
about the Lulab “the days”; as of the Lulab only days are 
meant, and not the nights, so also it may be with the Succah? 
Or take another way, the analogy of expression of “the seven 
days of Aaron’s consecration’ [Lev. ix.]; as there the nights are 
included, so shall here also the nights be included. Now let us 


64 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


see what it resembles more: We may draw a lesson about a thing 
the duty of which is the whole day, from another thing of which 
the duty is also the whole day, and not draw the same froma 
thing the duty of which is only one hour. Or in another way: We 
shall draw a lesson about a thing of which the duty is forever 
from a thing of which the duty is also forever, and not about 
a thing of which the duty is forever from Aaron’s consecration 
of which the duty was only for that time. Therefore another 
analogy of expression is found: It is written here: ‘Ye shall 
dwell,” and about the seven days of Aaron’s consecration it is 
also written [Lev. viii. 35]: “Ye shall dwell”; as there it is 
plainly written days and nights, so is here also meant days and 
nights. 

“In which case ts the willow used seven days?” Why shall the 
willow violate the Sabbath? Said R. Johanan: To let the pub- 
lic know that the willow is biblical. If it is so, let the Lulab also 
violate the Sabbath, to make it public that the Lulab is biblical ? 
The precautionary measure, which Rabbi mentioned above, is 
taken in reference to the Lulab. But why not in reference to the 
willow? Because usually the messengers of the Beth Din were 
sent to take the willow for the performance, but the Lulab was 
taken by private persons. Said Rabha to R. Itz’hak the son of 
Rabba bar bar Hana: Son of a scholar, come and I will tell you 
a good thing that your father said: What we learn in a Mishna 
farther on, that every day they went round the altar once, and on 
that day seven times, said your father in the name of R. Elazar: 
That is meant with the Lulab (not with the willow). R. Itz’hak 
objected: We have learned in a Tosephta: The Lulab violates 
the Sabbath in the beginning of its duty, and the willow in the 
end of its duty. It happened once that the seventh day of the 
willow fell on Sabbath and the branches of the willow were 
brought on the eve, and were laid in the court of the Temple ; 
and when the Baithusees got wind of it, they took the branches 
of the willows, and hid them under the stones of the court. On 
the morrow the common people pulled them out from beneath 
the stones, and the priests erected them around the altar, because 
the Baithusees do not agree that the performance of the duty of 
willows violates the Sabbath. Hence we see that they performed 
the religious ceremony with the willows, and not with the Lulab? 
The question remains: But why did they bring them on the eve 
of Sabbath, why not on Sabbath (let the bringing of the wil- 
lows violate the Sabbath as the handling while the duty is per- 





TRACT SUCCAH. 65 


formed)? Because as we, who are in exile and are not certain of 
the calendar, do not violate the Sabbath for the willow, they in 
Palestine also do not violate the Sabbath for the bringing. But 
we see that on the first day we do not violate the Sabbath for 
the Lulab, and they do? It was told, that now they also do not 
violate even with the Lulab. 

Abayi said to Rabha: Why do we use the Lulab all the seven 
days in memory of the Temple, and not the willow? Rabha an- 
swered: We use the willow tied with the Lulab together all the 
seven days. Rejoined “Abayi: But we use it not for the sake of 
the willow, but for the sake of the Lulab; and if you would say 
that we raise it again for the sake of the willow, we see proofs 
every day that we do not do so. Said R. Zbhid in the name of 
Rabha: The Lulab, which is biblical, we use in memory of the 
Temple all the seven days, but the willow, which is rabbinical, we 
do not use so. 

It was taught: R. Johanan and R. Joshuah b. Levi differ: 
One says that the basis of the willow is a tradition from the 
prophets, and one says that the willow is only a custom of the 
prophets. From the following saying of R. Abahu we may as- 
sume that R. Johanan is the one who said that the basis isa 
tradition of the prophets, because he said in his name that so said 
R. Johanan. Said R. Zera to R. Abahu: Did R. Johanan say 
so? Did he not say in the name of R. Nehumia, the man of 
the valley of Beth Hursa, that the ten plants concerning Kilaim, 
the willow, and the pouring of water are Sinaic laws? He was 
astounded for a little while, and said: They were forgotten once, 
and then reéstablished. But how could R. Johanan say so? 
Did he not say to the sages of Palestine: Do not say that the 
ordinances derived from the Torah are yours: they are the Baby- 
lonians’, because we have received all our learning from them. 
(R. Johanan said this when he saw R. Kahna, one of the disciples 
of Rabh, come to Palestine and explain many questions which R. 
Johanan could not decide.) Hence we see that R. Johanan did 
not think that in Babylon the Torah was forgotten, and how can 
it be said it was forgotten? It presents no difficulty: In the 
Temple it was Sinaic, but in the country it had for a basis the tra- 
dition of the prophets. 

R. Ami said: The willow has to be of the prescribed size, and 
must be taken separately, and a man does not fulfil his duty with 
the willow which is tied with the Lulab. R. Hisda in the name 
of R. Itz’hak, however, said that a man can fulfil his duty with 


5 


66 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


the willow which is tied with the Lulab. :What is the prescribed 
size? Said R. Na’hman: Three moist twigs with leaves. R. 
Shesheth, however, said: Even if there was one leaf on one twig. 
Said Aibu: I was standing in the presence of R. Elazar bar 
Zadok, and a man brought a willow before him; and he took the 
willow into his hand, and knocked off the leaves, but without any 
benediction, because he held that the willow was only a custom 
of the prophets. Aibu and Hezekiah, the grandsons of Rabh 
by his daughter, brought a willow to Rabh, and he also took it 
and knocked it, without benediction, because he also held it was 
enly a custom of the prophets. 

Aibu said again: I was standing before R. Elazar bar R. 
Zadok, and a man came to him and said: I possess some villages, 
and the inhabitants of the villages weeded the orchards in the 
Sabbatical year, and for their labor they ate the olives: did they 
right, or not? R. Elazar answered: It is not right: And the 
man wént away. Said R. Elazar: I am living in this country 
forty years, and I have not seen a man walk in the right path as 
this man. Afterwards the man came again, and asked R. Elazar 
what he should do in this matter, and R. Elazar told him he 
should abandon the olives to the poor, and the laborers he should 
pay from his purse. 

Aibu says again in the name of R. Elazar: Aman must not 
walk on the eve of Sabbath more than three Parsaoth. Said R. 
Kahna: The case is when he goes home, and his family does not 
know that he will come, and do not prepare anything for him for 
Sabbath ; but if he is going to an inn, he may walk more, because 
he has prepared everything that is necessary for Sabbath: Ac- 
cording to others, R. Kahna said that even to his house he shall 
not go, so much the less to an inn. And he added to this: It 
once happened to me that I was coming home late on the eve of 


Sabbath, and my family did not expect me: I didnot find even 


small fish prepared for Sabbath. 

“ How was the commandment to take the Lulab. fulfilled?” 
One Tana taught in the presence of R. Na’>hman: He deposited 
it on the roof of the gallery. And R. Na’hman said to him: 
Why on the roof, did he intend to dry it? Read, “on the 
galleries.” 

MISHNA: How was the command to take the willow ful- 
filled? There was a place’ below Jerusalem called Motza. 
Thither the people descended,:and gathered drooping willow 
branches. These they brought and erected at the side of the 





TRACT SUCCAH. | 67 


altar, the tips inclining over it. While this was doing, a blast, a 
long note, and again a blast were blown. Every day they made 
one circuit round the altar, and recited the verse: “O Lord, help 
us; O Lord, prosper us.” R. Jehudah said the words: “I and 
he, help us,” were also said. On ‘the particular day for using 
the willows (the seventh of the festival) they made seven circuits 
round the altar. When they withdrew, what did they say? 
“ Beauty is thine, O altar! Beauty is thine, O altar!” R. Elazar 
said, they also said: “To God and to thee, O altar! To God 
and to thee, O altar!” As they did on week-days, so did they 
likewise on the Sabbath; excepting only that they gathered the 
willow branches on the Sabbath-eve and put them into golden 
casks (filled with water), that they might not fade. R. Johanan 
b. Beroka said: They fetched branches of palms and threshed 
them to pieces on the sides of the altar. Thence the day was 
called “ the branch-threshing day.” Directly afterwards the chil- 
dren threw down their Lulabs and ate the citrons. 

GEMARA: In a Boraitha it was taught: that the place 
where they were taken was free from taxes, and one Tana of the 
Mishna calls it Motza, because this word signifies exempt from 
taxes. 

“ They brought and erected at the side of the altar.’ Ina 
Boraitha ‘was taught: They were soft and eleven ells high, so 
‘that they could cover the altar one ell. Said R. Abahu: From 
what biblical passage is this inferred? From Psalm cxviii. 27: 
“ Bind the festive sacrifice with cords,” etc. He said again in the 
name of R. Elazar: One who takes the Lulab with its binding, 
and the myrtle bough with its braiding, the verse makes him 
equal to one who would build an altar and offer a sacrifice on it, 
and he infers it from the end of the passage just quoted. Hezekiah 
said in the name of R. Jeremiah, quoting R. Simeon b. Jochai, 
and R. Johanan in the name of R. Simeon the Mehuzi, quoting 
R. Johanan the Mekuthi: One who added a day to the festival 
for eating and drinking, the verse makes him equal to one who 
built an altar and offered a sacrifice on it, as it is written: “ Bind 
the festive sacrifice with cords (leading it) up to the horns of 
the altar.” 

Hezekiah said again in the namé of R. Jeremiah, quoting R. 
Simeon b. Jochai: All the prescribed plants for religious duties 
must be taken as they grow, as it is written [Ex. xxvi. 15]: 
“ Shittim wood, standing up.” Hezekiah said again in the name 
of the same authority : I could exempt the whole world from the 


68 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Day of Judgment since I was born till now; and if Eliezer my son 
would be with me, I could do it for all men since the world was 
created till now. And if King Jotham ben Uzziah would be with 
us, we could do it for all men from the creation of the world till its 
end, The same says again in the name of the same: I see the 
greatest men in the world are very few. If they are a thousand, 
- I and my son are included; if they are a hundred, I and my son 
are included, and if they are only two, they are I and my son. 
Said Abayi: There are no less than thirty-six upright men in the 
world who receive appearance of the Shekhina every day, as it is 
written [Is. xxx. 18]: “ Happy are all those that wait for him,” 
and Azm is expressed by %, which counts thirty-six. 

“ To God and to thee.’ Wow did they do so? Did they not 
combine the name of the Lord with another thing, and we have 
learned in a Boraitha: Who combines the name of the Lord with 
another thing, will be destroyed from the world? As it is written 
[Ex. xxii. 19]: ‘“‘ Save unto the Lord only.” The Mishna meant 
it was said so: ‘“ To God we bow, and Thee we praise.” 

R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel said: The benediction 
over the Lulab must be pronounced all the seven days, but in 
the Succah the benediction must be made only the first day. 
Why so? Because the nights intervene between the days, and 
every day it is a separate commandment; but in case of the 
Succah, which is a duty during the nights also, all the seven days 
are considered as one long day, and one benediction is enough. 
Rabba bar bar Hana in the name of R. Johanan, however, said : 
The benediction over the Succah must be pronounced all the 
seven days, but over the Lulab only the first day. Why so? 
Because the Succah is biblical, the benediction is to be made 
every time; but the Lulab being rabbinical, it is sufficient on the 
first day. When Rabbin came from Palestine, he said in the name 
of R. Johanan, that over both it is to be pronounced every day 
all the seven days. Said R. Joseph: Keep what Rabba bar bar 
Hana said in your mind, because all the Amoraim hold with him 
concerning Succah. Other Tanaim, however, differ also on the 
same point. As we have learned in the following Boraitha: Over 
the Tefilin, every time one lays them, one must pronounce a bene- 
diction. So is the decree of Rabbi. The sages, however, said : 
In the morning only. And it was taught Abayi said the 
Halakha prevails according to Rabbi, and Rabba said the Ha- 
lakha prevails according to the sages. Said R. Mari the son of 
the daughter of Samuel: I have seen Rabba did not follow his 





TRACT SUCCAH. 69 


own decision, and we also all are doing according to Rabbi, and 
pronounce the benediction on every one of the seven days. 

R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel said: The commandment 
of the Lulab is all the seven days; but R. Joshuah b. Levi said: 
The biblical commandment is only for the first day, and from 
this day further on it is the commandment of the Elders; and so 
said also R. Itz’hak. Rabh, however, holds that the command- 
ment is for all seven days, and R. Na’hman bar Itz’hak taught 
plainly that Rabh said so. 

The rabbis taught: If one made a Succah for himself, he must 
pronounce the benediction of the time. When he comes to dwell 
in it, he must pronounce the benediction: “ Blessed be He, etc., . 
who has commanded us to dwellin a Succah”’; but if the Succah 
had been prepared, if he is able to fix there something new, he 
may pronounce the benediction of the time; if not, when he 
comes to dwell in it, he should pronounce both benedictions. 
Said R. Ashi: I have seen R. Kahna, who used to pronounce all 
the benedictions over the goblet, together with the benediction 
of the day. 

The rabbis taught: If one have before himself many religious 
duties, he can say: ‘“ Blessed be He who has sanctified us with His 
commandments, and commanded to us many duties.” R. Jehu- 
dah, however, said: He must pronounce the benediction before 
each one separately. Said R. Zera, according to others R. Ha- 
nina bar Papa: The Halakha prevails according to R. Jehudah. 
And he (either of the two mentioned) says again: What is the 
reason of R. Jehudah? Because it is written [Ps. Ixviii. 20]: 
“Blessed be the Lord, day by day.’ Do we only bless Him by 
day, and not by night? We may learn from this that every day 
we should bless Him for the duties of that day (if Sabbath, we 
must bless Him for the Sabbath; if a festival, for the duties 
belonging to each festival). The same authority says again: 
Come and see. The usages of the Holy One, blessed be He, 
are not as the usages of human beings: A human being can 
put only something into an empty vessel, but if the vessel is 
full, he can put in nothing; but the Holy One, blessed be He, 
can add to a full vessel, but can put nothing into an empty one, 
as it is written [Deut. xxviii. 1]: “If thou wilt hearken dili- 
gently” ;* z.¢., if you have heard diligently, you can receive 





* The Hebrew term for this is yown pnw, which is literally, ‘‘ by hearing you will 
hear more,” 


70 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


more knowledge, but if not diligently, you can hear nothing, 
Another interpretation for this verse is this: If you have given 
your attention to what you have learned before, you can learn 
from it new things; but if you have turned away your heart from 
the old teaching, you cannot learn anything new. 

“ The children threw down,’ etc. Said R. Johanan: The citron 
on the seventh day is prohibited to be eaten, but on the eighth 
day it is allowed; but the wood of the Succah, even on the eighth 
day, is not allowed to be used. Resh Lakish, however, said: 
Even on the seventh day the citron is allowed. R. Johanan 
made an objection to Resh Lakish from our Mishna: The chil- 
dren throw down their Lulabs and eat their citrons. From this 
we may infer that only the children may do so, but not adults. 
Answered Resh Lakish: Nay, adults may also do so, but the 
Mishna mentions children because it was usually done so. :R. 
Papa asked Abayi: What is the reason that R. Johanan makes 
a difference between the Succah and the citron? And he an- 
swered: The Succah is fit for twilight, so that if one had to eat 
at twilight, he must sit in the Succah and eat there; and because 
it was designated for twilight, it is designated for the whole eighth 
day ; but the citron, which is not to be used at twilight, and was 
not designated for the twilight, is not designated for the whole 
eighth day. Levi, however, said: The citron is prohibited: even 
on the eighth day. And the father of Samuel said: On the sev- 
. enth day it is not allowed, but on the eighth day it is allowed. 
The father of Samuel afterwards retracted his teaching, and -re- 
mained in accordance with the system of Levi. R. Zera, how- 
ever, remains in accordance with the old teaching of the father of 
Samuel, and taught in the house of learning that a citron which 
becomes invalid must not be eaten all the seven days. R. Zera 
said again: One must not give as a present to a child a Lulab on 
the first day of the festival Why so? Becausea child. may re- 
ceive a present, but cannot make a present to another; and after- 
wards if the man uses the Lulab for the religious purpose, he has 
used a thing which is not his (by which he cannot fulfil his duty). 
He says again: A man shall not promise a child something, and 
afterwards not keep his word, for the child can learn from, it to 
tell a lie. 

We in exile, who keep two days of. the festival, how shall we 
do? Said Abayi: On the eighth day, which it is doubtful per- 
haps it is the seventh, it is prohibited; but the ninth day, which 
it is doubtful perhaps it is the eighth, it is allowed. Meremar, 


TRACT SUCCAH. a1 


however, said: Even on the eighth day, which it. is doubtful per- 
haps it is the seventh, it is also allowed. In Sura they acted 
according to Meremar; but R. Shesheth the son of R. Iddi 
acted according to Abayi, and the Halakha prevails according to 
Abayi. 

R. Jehudah the son of Samuel bar Shilath said in the name 
of Rabh: The eighth day, which it is doubtful whether it is not 
the seventh, may be considered as the seventh day in reference 
to the Succah, but is considered the eighth day in reference to 
the benediction, R. Johanan, however, said: It may be consid- 
ered the eighth day for both purposes.. (The Gemara explains 
it so): In reference to the benediction, all agree that the benedic- 
tion may not be said. What they differ about is only the 
citron. According to Rabh, on the eighth day one must sit in 
the Succah, and according to R. Johanan, even sitting is not 
necessary either. Said R. Joseph: Keep in. your mind what R. 
Johanan said, because the Master of this Halakha, R. Jehudah bar 
Samuel, who declared it in the name of Rabh, did not act accord- 
ing to his teaching, and we have seen him on the eighth day 
sitting outside of the Succah. The Halakha prevails: That we 
do sit in the Succah, but do not pronounce the benediction 
over it. 

R. Johanan said: The benediction of the time must be pro- 
nounced on the eighth day of the Feast of Tabernacles, but not 
on the seventh day of Passover. Said R. Levi bar Hama, accord- 
ing to others. R. Hama bar Hanina: This may be approved, 
because the eighth day of the Feast of Tabernacles is different in 
three things from the preceding days: It needs not Succah, it 
needs not Lulab, nor the pouring of water. If it is so, the 
seventh day of Passover is also different, because it is not a duty 
to eat Matzah thereon, as the Master said (p. 33) that only the 
first night it is a duty to eat Matzah? What comparison is this? 
There it is different only from the first night, but not from the 
first day ; but here it is different from the day also. Rabhina said: 
The eighth day of the Feast of Tabernacles is different from the 
preceding day ; but the seventh day of Passover differs only from 
the first day, but not from the one preceding it. How shall we 
act? Said R. Na’hman: The benediction of the time may be 
said on the eighth day, and R. Shesheth said it must not, and the 
Halakha prevails that it may be said. .We have learned in a 
Boraitha in support to R. Na’hman: The eighth day is a holy 
day by itself, has lots cast for itself (which priest should perform 


72 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


the service of the sacrifice, as is explained in Shekalim), the bene- 
diction of time for itself, offerings for itself, a separate song 
for itself (all seven days one song was sung by the Levites at 
the sacrifice), and also a blessing for itself (“the eighth day of 
assembly ” was pronounced in the benediction). 

MISHNA: The Hallel and the enjoying of peace-offerings 
were eight days. Howso? We infer from this, that a man is 
bound to recite the Hallel and enjoy the peace-offerings the last 
day of the festival the same as the preceding days. 

GEMARA: Where is this deduced from? The rabbis taught : 
It is written [Deut. xvi. 15]: “ Thou shalt only rejoice” ; it comes 
to add the night of the last day of the festival, and to exclude the 
night of the first day. But perhaps it is meant only for the first 
day? The word (ach) “ only’’ separates it. But why do you in- 
clude the last day, and exclude the first day? I include the last 
night, before which there was enjoyment; but I exclude the first 
night, before which was no enjoyment. 

MISHNA: The Succah is dwelt in seven days. How so? 
When a man has taken his last meal therein, he is not directly to 
pull down his Succah; but, after noon, he may move the furni- 
ture back into the house, in honor of the last day of the festival. 

How was the pouring out of the water? <A golden pitcher 
that held three lugs was filled with water from the brook Siloah. 
When they came with it to the water-gate, they blew a blast, a 
long note, and again a blast. The priest then ascended the stair of 
the altar, and turned to the left. Two silver basins stood there. 
R. Jehudah says: They were of gypsum, but had a dark appear- 
ance from the wine. Each was perforated with a small hole, like 
a nostril (at the bottom), the one for the wine somewhat wider, 
the other for the water narrower, that both might get empty at 
once. The one, to the west, was used for water; the other, to the 
- east, for the wine. But if the water was poured into the wine 
basin, or the wine into the water basin, one’s duty was reckoned 
to be fulfilled. R. Jehudah says: They poured out one lug on 
each of the eight days. To him who poured out the water the 
people called: “ Raise thy hand”; for once it happened that 
one priest charged with this duty poured the water over his feet, 
and all the people pelted him with their citrons. As they did on 
the week-days, so they did likewise on the Sabbath, except that - 
they fetched the water from the Siloah on the Sabbath eve in a 
golden cask that had not been consecrated, and placed it in a 
chamber ; if it was upset or uncovered, they filled again from the 





TRACT SUCCAH. 73 


laver, For it was not lawful to bring on the altar water or wine 
which had been uncovered. 

GEMARA: Whence is it deduced? Said R. Eina: It is 
written [Is. xii. 3]: “Ye shall draw water with gladness.” 

“ Ascended the stair,” etc. The rabbis taught: All who 
ascended the altar ascended on the right, went round, and de- 
scended on the left; except that those who ascended for the 
following three purposes (duties) ascended on the left, and went 
back on the same side: to pour water, to pour wine, and to offer 
a burnt-offering of a fowl when it was too much on the east 
side of the altar.* 

“ Each was perforated,” etc. Shall we assume that the 
Mishna is according to R. Jehudah and not according to the 
sages, as it teaches farther on: “R. Jehudah said with a lug,” 
etc.; because if the Mishna would be according to the sages, the 
quantity of the wine and water was equal? (And why was one 
wider, and the other narrower?) Nay, we may say the Mishna is 
according to the sages; but wine is thick, and water is thinner, 
and this is the reason for the unequal sizes of the holes. It seems 
to us it is so, for according to R. Jehudah one must be wide and 
the other narrow, as we learn in the following Boraitha: R. 
Jehudah said: Two urns were there, one for water and one for 
wine: that for wine had its mouth wide, and that for water nar- 
row, that they should be emptied at the same time. 

Rabha lectured: It is written [Song of Songs, vii. 2]: “ How 
beautiful are thy steps in sandals, O prince’s daughter!” How 
beautiful were the steps of Israel, when they pilgrimaged for the 
festival! “ Prince’s daughter” means, daughter of Abraham our 
father, who was called prince; as it is written [Ps. xlvii. 10]: 
“The nobles of the people are gathered together, the people of 
the God of Abraham.” The God of Abraham, and not the God 
of Isaac and Jacob? It means, the God of Abraham, who was 
the first of the proselytes. 

The disciples of R. Anan taught: It is written [Song of Songs, 
ibid.]: “The roundings of thy thighs.” As the thighs are 
in a hidden place, so the words of the Law must all be hidden, and 
this is similar to what R. Elazar said, as follows: It is written 
[Micah, vi. 8]: “ He hath told thee, O man, what is good, and 
what the Lord doth require of thee: nothing but to do justice, and 





*The burnt-offerings and east side of the altar will be explained in Tract 
Tamid, Chap, I, 


74 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


to love kindness, and to walk humbly with thy God.”* To do jus- 
tice, z.e., judgment ; to love kindness, z.¢., the bestowing of favors; 
and to walk humbly with thy God, that means, to bear a dead body, 
and to conduct a bride under the canopy. Is this not an a fortiori 
conclusion? If things usually done publicly are to be done’sur- 
reptitiously, so much the more things usually done privately ? 

R. Elazar-said: The doing of charity is greater than all the 
sacrifices; as it is written [Prov. xxi..3]: ‘“ To exercise righteous- 
ness and justice is more acceptable to the Lord than sacrifice.” 
The same says again: The bestowing of favors is greater than 
charity ; as it is written [ Hosea, x. 12]: ‘‘ Sow then for yourselves 
righteousness, that you may reap the fruit of kindness.” If a 
man. sows, it is doubtful whether he will eat from his sowing, or 
not; but if a man reaps, he is sure to eat of it (and:so itis with 
charity, sometimes it is useful, sometimes not, but kindness’ is 
always so). 

R. Elazar says again: Charity is rewarded only according to 
the. kindness with which -it is done; as it is written: ‘Sow for 
yourselves righteousness, that you may reap kindness.”’ 

The rabbis taught: In three things is the bestowing: of favors 
greater than charity: Charity is only with money, but ‘the be- 
stowing of favors is either with one’s money or with one’s 
person; charity. is only to poor men, but the bestowing~ of 
favors is to poor and rich; charity is only for the living, but 
the bestowing of favors is both for the living and the: dead. 
The same says. again: One who does charity and judgment is as 
if he filled the whole world with kindness; as it is: written [Ps. 
Xxxiii. 5]: “He loveth righteousness and justice; the éarth is 
full of the kindness of the Lord.” But if you mean:that every 
one who wants to do charity is given the opportunity: to:do real 
charity, it. is therefore written [ibid. xxxvi: 8]: ‘“‘ How precious 
is thy kindness!” It is different, however, with a man: fearing 
Heaven; as it is written [ibid. ciii. 17]: “ But the kindness: of 
the Lord ‘is: from. everlasting to everlasting over those:that fear 
him.” R. Hama bar Papa said: A man who finds favor every- 
where, it is certain that he fears God; as it is written: “The 
kindness of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting over those 
that fear him.” 

He says again: It: is written [Prov. xxxi: 26]: ‘She openeth 
her mouth with wisdom, and the law of kindness is.on her 
tongue.” Are there two laws,. one of kindness, and one:not 
of kindness? That means, if one studies the law in honér of the 





TRACT SUCCAH. 15 


Lord, it is a law of kindness; but if one studies the law for his 
own interest, it is a law not of kindness. According to others, if 
he studies the law to teach it, it is a law of kindness; but if he 
studies it for himself, it is not. 

“Tf it was upset or uncovered,’ etc. Whyso? He can strain 
the water? Shall we assume that our Mishna is not according to 
R. Nehemiah from the following Boraitha: Even if the water was 
strained, the. law of uncovered water does still apply to it. R. 
Nehemiah, however, said: This is only when the lower vessel was 
uncovered, but when the lower vessel was covered, though the 
upper one was uncovered, the law of uncovered water does not 
apply to it, because the venom of a snake, like a sponge, rises to 
the top. The Mishna can apply also to R. Nehemiah, but he 
spoke of preparing for an ordinary man, but in honor of the Lord 
could he say so? Did not R. Nehemiah consider the verse in 
Malachi [i. 8]: “Do but present it unto thy governor, will he be 
pleased with thee, or receive thee with favor? says the Lord of 
hosts.” 


CHAPTER V. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE ENJOYMENTS AND THE SONGS IN 
THE TEMPLE DURING THE TIME OF THE SACRIFICES, AND THEIR 
ORDER. 


MISHNA: The pipes were played sometimes on five days, 
and sometimes six. This means, the pipes played on during the 
time of water-drawing, which does not supersede either the Sab- 
bath or the festival. 

GEMARA: The rabbis taught: The playing of pipes super- 
sedes the Sabbath, so is the decree of R. Jose bar Jehudah; but 
the sages said, even the festival it does not supersede. Said R. 
Joseph: They differ only about the music of the sacrifices. R. 
Jose holds that the music of the sacrifices is instrumental, conse- 
quently it isa service, and supersedes the Sabbath; but the sages 
hold it is vocal, and therefore not a service, and does not super- 
sede the Sabbath; but the music of the drawing of the water all 
agree is only an enjoyment, and does not supersede the Sab- 
bath. But R. Jeremiah bar Abba said: They differ only about 
the music of the drawing of water. R. Jose bar R. Jehudah holds 
that this enjoyment also supersedes the Sabbath, and the sages 
hold it does not; but about the music of the sacrifice all agree it 
is a service, and does supersede the Sabbath. 

What is the reason of those who say that the main music must 
be instrumental? Because it is written [II Chron. xxix. 27]: 
“And Hezekiah ordered to offer the burnt-offering on the altar. 
And when the burnt-offering began, the song of the Lord began 
with the trumpets, and with the instruments of David the King of 
Israel.” And what is the reason of those who said the main music 
is vocal? Because it is written [ibid. v. 13]: “ And it came thus 
to pass, as the trumpeters and singers were as one, to make 
one sound.” But what will they do with the former passage? 
Hezekiah meant, the voices accompanied the instruments. And 
those who hold it was only instrumental, what will they say to 
the last-quoted passage? They explain it thus: The singers 
were as the trumpeters, z.¢., used instruments also. 


TRACT SUCCAH. 77 


MISHNA: He who has not witnessed the rejoicings at the 
water-drawing has, throughout the whole of his life, witnessed no 
real rejoicing. At the expiration of the first holiday of the fes- 
tival they descended into the women’s court, where a great 
transformation was made. Golden candelabra were placed there, 
with four golden basins at the top of each; and four ladders were 
put to each candelabrum, on which stood four lads from the 
rising youth of the priesthood, holding jars of oil containing 120 
lugs, with which they replenished each basin. 

The cast-off breeches and belts of the priests were torn into 
shreds for wicks, which they lighted. There was not a court in 
Jerusalem that was not illuminated by the lights of the water- 
drawing. Pious and distinguished men danced before the people 
with lighted flambeaux in their hands, and sang hymns and lauds 
before them; and the Levites accompanied them with harps, 
psalteries, cymbals, and numberless musical instruments. On the 
fifteen steps which led into the women’s court, corresponding 
with the fifteen songs of degrees, stood the Levites, with their 
musical instruments, and sang. At the upper gate which leads 
down from the court of the Israelites to the court of the women 
stood two priests, with trumpets in their hands. When the cock 
first crowed they blew a blast, a long note, and a blast. This 
they repeated when they reached the tenth step, and again (the 
third time) when they got into the court. They went on, blow- 
ing their trumpets as they went, until they reached the gate that 
leads out to the east. When they reached that gate they turned 
westward, with their faces towards the Temple, and said: Our 
ancestors, who were in this place, turned their backs on the Tem- 
ple of the Lord, and their faces towards the east; for they wor- 
shipped the sun towards the east; but we lift our eyes to God. 
R. Jehudah says: They repeated again and again: “ We belong 
to God, and raise our eyes to God.” 

GEMARA: The rabbis taught: Who has not seen the rejoic- 
ing at the drawing of water, has not seen a real rejoicing in 
his life. He who has not seen Jerusalem in its beauty, has not 
seen a beautiful great city in his whole life; and who has not 
seen the building of the Second Temple, has not seen a handsome 
building in his life. What is meant by this? Said Abayi, accord- 
ing to othérs R. Hisda: It means the building of Herod. Of 
what materials was it built? Said Rabba: Of black and white 
marble ; and according to others, of other colors also. He made 
one tier of stones projecting outward, and one tier of stones 


78 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


remaining inside. He wished to overlay it with gold, but the 
sages said to him: Leave it so, because it is more beautiful, hav- 
ing the appearance of waves of the sea. 

We have learned in a Boraitha: R. Jehudah said: Who has 
not seen the dzzA0 roa (diuplustin, double portico) of Alex- 
andria in Egypt, has not seen the glory of Israel. It was said it 
was a great Maozdzyn (a palace with colonnades), and the palace 
could contain twice the number of men who went out from Egypt 
(the Israelites), and there were seventy-one golden cathedras (arm- 
chairs with footstools) for the seventy-one sages of the Great 
Sanhedrin, and each cathedra was no less than twenty-one 
myriads of talents of gold; and a wooden Anya (pulpit) was in 
the middle of the palace, where the sexton of the congregation 
stood, with a flag in his hand, and when the time came in the 
prayer to respond “Amen,” he raised the flag, and the whole 
people said “ Amen.” And they did not sit promiscuously, but 
separately ; the golden chairs were separate, the silver chairs were 
separate, smiths sat separately, carpenters separately, and all of 
the different trades sat separately, and when a poor man went in, he 
recognized who his fellow-tradesmen were, and went to them, and 
thus got there work for the support of himself and his family. 
Said Abayi: And all these were killed by Alexander of Macedon. 
Why were they so punished? Because they had transgressed 
the passage [Deut. xvii. 16]: “The Lord had said unto you, Ye 
shall henceforth not return on that way any more.” And they 
returned, and resided in Egypt. When Alexander came, he found 
them reading the passage [ibid. xxviii. 49]: “The Lord will 
bring up against thee a nation from afar,” etc., and he said: “1 
had to go ten:days on board the ship, and the winds blew and 
brought me here in five days (certainly I was meant by the quoted - 
passage)”; and he killed them. 

“ At the expiration of the first holy day,” etc. What was the 
transformation? Said R. Eleazar: Similar to what we have 
learned in the following Boraitha: The court of the women was 
formerly without a balcony, but they surrounded it with a bal- 
cony, and ordained that the women should sit above and the 
men below. 

’ The rabbis taught: Formerly the women sat in inward 
chambers and the men in outer ones; but thereby was produced 
some levity, and therefore it was ordained the men should sit 
inwardly and the women outwardly; but still levity arose, and 
therefore it was ordained that the women sit above and the men 





« 


TRACT SUCCAH. 79 


below. How could they do so? Does not the passage say [in 
I Chron. xxviii. 19]: “ All was put in writing from the hand of 
the Lord, who gave me instruction respecting all the works of 
the pattern”? Said Rabh: They found another passage and 
lectured about it, namely [Zech., xii. 12]: “And the land will 
mourn, every family apart by itself, the family of the house of 
David apart, and their wives apart.” And they said: Is this not 
an a fortiori conclusion? At the time of mourning, when the 
passions are powerless, it is said the women and the men should 
be separate; so much the more in the Temple, where they were 
occupied in rejoicing, and the passions can have power over 
them. 

What was the mourning for? R. Dosa and the rabbis differ: 
One holds that it was for the Messiah the son of Joseph, who was 
killed ;* and one holds that it was for the evil angel, who was 


killed.t It would be right according to one who holds that it 


was for the Messiah the son of Joseph, because he explains as 
supporting him the passage [Zech. xii. 10]: “ And they will look 
up toward me (for every one) whom they have thrust through, 
and they will lament for him, as one lamenteth for an only son, 
and weep bitterly for him, as one weepeth bitterly for the first- 
born ”’; but according to one who says that it was for the death of 


the evil angel, why mourning? must it not be, on the contrary, an 
‘enjoyment? Why then weeping? This can be explained as R. 


Jehudah lectured: In the future the Holy One, blessed be He, 
will bring the evil angel and slaughter him in the presence of 
both the upright and the wicked. To the former he will look 
like a high mountain, and to the latter he will look like a thin 


hair. Both, however, will cry. The upright will cry, saying: 


How could we overpower such a high mountain ? and the wicked 
will cry, saying : How could we zo¢ subdue such a thin hair? And 
also the Holy One, blessed be He, will join them in wondering, as 
it is written [Zech. viii. 6]: “Thus hath said the Lord of hosts: If it 





* There was a tradition among the ancient Hebrews that two Messiahs would ap- 
pear before the redemption of Israel: one of the tribe of Joseph and one of the tribe 


‘of Jehudah, a descendant of David; and the expression ‘‘ who was killed” means 
who will have been killed. The Jewish Christians at that time, who did not believe 


in the divinity of Christ, but in his Messiahship (¢.¢., that the traditional Messiah ben 
Joseph meant the son of a-man by the name of Joseph, but not of the tribe of Joseph, 
as Christ was, and that his fate was to be killed before the appearance of ‘Messiah b. 
David), explain this passage to have reference to Christ. 

¢ See Tract Yomah, p. 100, 


80 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


should be marvellous in the eyes of the remnant of this people in 
those days, should it also be marvellous in my eyes.* 

R. Assi said: In the beginning the evil angel appears as in- 
significant and thin as a cobweb, t¢ and finally he becomes as thick 
as a wagon-rope, as it is written [Is. v. 18]: “Wo unto those that 
draw iniquity with the cords of falsehood, and as with a wagon- 
rope, sinfulness. 

The rabbis taught : The Messiah b. David, who (as we hope) 
will appear in the near future, the Holy One, blessed be He, will 
say to him: Ask something of me and I will give it to thee, as it 
is written [Ps. ii. 7-8]: “I will announce the decree .. . Ask 
it of me, and I will give,” etc. But as the Messiah b. David will 
have seen that the Messiah b. Joseph who preceded him was 
killed, he will say before the Lord: Lord of the Universe, I will 
ask nothing of Thee but life. And the Lord will answer: This 
was prophesied already for thee by thy father David [Ps. xxi. 5]: 
“ Life hath he asked of thee, thou gavest it to him.” 

R. Awira, according to others R. Joshuah b. Levi, lectured’: 
There are seven names for the evil angel (tempting man). The 
Holy One, blessed be He, names him “evil,” as it is written 
(Gen. viii. 21]: “ The imagination of man’s heart is evil from his 
youth”; Moses calls him “obduracy,” as it is written [Deut. 
x. 16]: “ Remove the obduracy of your heart”; David calls him 
“unclean,” as it is written [Ps. li. 12]: “Create unto mea clean 
heart”; and when he says “a clean heart,” it must be an unclean 
one. Solomon calls him “enemy,” as it is written [Prov. xxv. 
21]: “If thy enemy be hungry, give him bread to eat, and if he 
be thirsty, give him water to drink; for though thou gatherest 
coals of fire upon his head, yet will the Lord repay it unto thee.” 
Do not read poy (repay it), but p>y (he will make him peace- 
ful toward thee). Isaiah calls him “stumbling-block,” as it is 
written [Is. lvii. 14]: “ And he will say, Cast ye up, cast ye up, 
clear out of the way, lift up every stumbling-block out of the way 
of my people.” Ezekiel names him “stone,” as it is written 
[Ezek. xxxvi. 26]: “I will remove the heart of stone out of your 
body.” Joel calls him “host of the north,” as it is written [Joel, 
ii. 20]: “ And the host of the north will I remove.” (The ex- 
pression in Hebrew is Tzephoni, which also signifies the “ hidden 





* Leeser in his translation has it in the form of an interrogation, but the Tal- 
mud takes it in simple form. 

+ According to Rashi; according to Scheinhack, however, it means the thread of 
the xypoxy; and so it seems also from the Aruch, 





TRACT SUCCAH. | 81 


one,” and they interpret it as the evil spirit which is hidden in 
the heart of man.) 

The rabbis taught : And I will drive it into a land barren and 
desolate: the evil angel hidden in a man’s heart I will drive into 
the desert, z.¢., where men do not live, that he might tempt 
them; “with its advance towards the eastern sea,” z.¢., he set his 
eyes on the First Temple, and destroyed it, and killed the scholars 
that were there; “and its rearward toward the western sea,” 
z.¢., he set his eyes on the Second Temple, and destroyed it, and 
killed the scholars that were there; ‘(and its stench shall ascend, 
and its ill savour shall come up, because he hath done great 
things,” z.e., he leaves:out the other nation, and comes to tempt 
only the Israelites. 

“ He hath done great things.’ Said Abayi: Scholars he 
tempts more than any one else. As it once happened, Abayi 
heard a man say to a:woman: “Let us rise early, and we will 
go on the road”; and Abayi thought: “I will follow them, 
and prevent them from: a sin.” He went after them about 
three miles through reeds, and he heard them saying: “ Our 
conversation has been very agreeable, and now we must take 
separate roads.” Said Abayi: “ My enemy (meaning himself) 
would not have contained himself thus.” He leaned against the 
bolt of the door, and was very sorry that he would have been 
worse than acommon man. And an old man came to him and 
taught him: ‘The greater a man is, the more is he tempted by 
the evil angel.” R. Itz’hak said: The evil passions of man try 
to get the better of him all the day long, as it is written [Gen. 
vi. 5]: “ Was only evil all day long.” R. Simeon b. Lakish said: 
They try to get the better of him, and to slay him, as it is 


written [Ps. xxxvii. 32]: ‘The wicked looketh out for the 


righteous, and seeketh to slay him”; and were not the Holy 
One, blessed be He, to aid him, man could not resist, as it is 
written further: “The: Lord will not leave him in his hand, and 
will not condemn him when he is judged.” 

The disciples of R. Ishmael taught: If this hideousness has 
attacked thee, take it to the house of learning; if it is a stone it 
will be ground to powder, and if it is iron it will be split to pieces. 
“Tf a stone, it will. be ground,” as it is written [Is. lv. 1]: “ Ho, 
every one of ye that thirsteth, come ye to the water” (z.c., the 
Law); and it is written [Job, xiv. 19]: “ The water weareth out 
stones.” “And of iron, it will be split into pieces,” as it is writ- 
ten [Jeremiah, xxiii. 29]: “Is not thus my word like the fire? 

6 


82 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


saith the Lord, and like a hammer that shivereth the rock?” 
Said R. Samuel bar Na’hmani in the name of Jehonathan: The 
~ evil angel tempts man in this world, and bears testimony in the 
world to come, as it is written [Prov. xxix. 21]: “If one rear his 
slave delicately from his youth, then will he at length become 
Manon”; and in the Alpha Betha of R. Hiya, which was called 
Atbach, a witness was called Manon.* 

Rabh Huna pointed out a contradiction: It is written [Ho- 
sea, iv. 12]: “ For the spirit of lewdness has caused them to err,” 
and [ibid. v. 4]: “The spirit of lewdness is in their bosom.” At 
first it causes to err, and afterwards it remains in the bosom. 
Rabha said: In the beginning he is called “traveller,” and then 
“guest,” and then “man,” as it is written [II Sam. xii. 4]: 
“ And there came a traveller unto the rich man; and he felt 
compunction to take from his own flocks and from his own 
herds to dress for the guest that was come to him; but he took 
the ewe of the poor man, and dressed it for the man that was 
come to him” (Rabha assumes the whole verse to refer to the 
evil angel). 

R. Johanan said: If it were not for the following three pas- 
sages, the enemies of Israel (meaning Israel) could not withstand : 
First [Micah, iv. 6]: “ And her to whom J have done evil’’; and 
the second [Jeremiah, xviii. 6]: “ As the clay is in the potter's 
hand, so are ye in my hand, O house of Israel”’; and the third is 
[ Ezek. xxxvi. 26]: “J will remove the heart of stone out of your 
body, and I will give you a heart of flesh.” R. Papa says: Also 
from the following verse [ibid., ibid. 27]: “ And my spirit I will 
put within you.” 

It is written [Zech. ii. 3]: “And the Lord showed me four 
carpenters.” Who are the four carpenters? Said R. Hanah bar 
Bizna in the name of R. Simeon the Pious: Messiah b. David, 
and Messiah b. Joseph, Elijah, and Cohen Zedek. 

It is written [Micah, v. 4]: “ And in this (manner) shall there 
be peace: If Asshur should come into our land; and if he should 
tread in our palaces, then will we raise up against him seven 
shepherds, and eight anointed men. Who are the seven shepherds ? 
David in the centre; Adam, Sheth, Methushelach, at his right ; 
Abraham, Jacob, and Moses at his left. And who are the eight 





* In Leeser’s version of the Bible he translates Manon ‘‘son,” for which we do 
not know the authority ; but the Mashbir translates Manon “evotvaos, t.e., ‘* vio- 
lent,” and quotes a Midrash where the evil angel is meant. 





TRACT SUCCAH. 83 


anointed men? Jesse, Saul, Samuel, Amos, Zephaniah, Zedekiah, 
Messiah, and Elijah.* 

“And four ladders,” etc. It was taught in a Boraitha, that 
the height of every candelabrum was fifty ells. 

“ And four lads,” etc. The schoolmen propounded a ques- 
tion: Is it meant that each of them held a pitcher that contained 
120 lugs, or the 120 lugs was the joint capacity of all the four? 
Come and hear: And in their hands were pitchers of oil containing 
each 30 lugs, which altogether amounted to 120. And a Borai- 
tha states that they were praised more than the son of Martha 
the daughter of Baithus. It was said of the latter that he used 
to take two legs from the large ox which was bought for a thou- 
sand Zuz, in his hands, and went with them slowly, step by step. 
And his fellow-priests did not let him do so, because it is written 
[Prov. xiv. 28]: “In the multitude of the people is the king’s 
glory” (¢.e., if more men carried, God’s glory were greater). 
What is meant by, “ They were praised more than the son of,” 
etc.? Shall we assume the 30 lugs were heavy—the legs were 
heavier? Yea, but there was only one step, and it was square; 
but here was a ladder, and standing upright (and it was more dif- 
ficult for children to carry the burden). 

“ There was not a courtin Jerusalem that was not tlluminated.” 
A Boraitha taught: A woman could pick wheat by this light. 

“ Pious and distinguished men,” etc. The rabbis taught: 
Among were such as said thus: “ Well be to our youth which 
does not disgrace our age.” They were pious and distinguished 
men, and there were among them people who said: “ Well be to 
our age that has atoned for our youth.” And these are the peni- 
tents. Both used to say: “ Well be to those who have not sinned 
at all; but who has sinned shall repent, and he will be forgiven.” 
We have learned in a Boraitha: It was said of Hillel the Elder 
(the Prince): When he rejoiced at the drawing of the water, he 
used to say thus: If Iam here, all are here; but if Iam not here, 
who is here? He used also to say: To the places which I am 
fond of, my feet bring me; if thou wilt visit my house, I will visit 
thy house; but if thou wilt not visit my house, I shall never visit 
thine. As it is written [Ex. xx. 21]: “In every place where I 





* It is strange to Rashi why Isaac is not mentioned here among the patriarchs. 
He says it seems to him that it is stated elsewhere that it is because Isaac went 
to redeem his children from Gehenna. It is so, This can be found in Midrash 
II Chronicles and in Jalkut Shimoni Micah,v. The strangeness of this saying, 
however, remains. 


84 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


shall permit my name to be mentioned, I will come unto thee, 
and I will bless thee.”* R. Johanan said: The feet of the man 
are securities for him: where he is needed, they bring him thither. 
Two Ethiopians were in the service of King Solomon, named 
Elihoreph and Achiyah the son of Shisha, and were his scribes. 
One day Solomon saw the Angel of Death was sad, and he asked 
him for the reason, and he said: Because the two men are re- 
quired from me. And Solomon took the two men and gave them 
away to devils, who should carry them away to the city of Luz, 
which the Angel of Death cannot enter. On the morrow he saw 
the Angel of Death was very cheerful, and when he asked him™ 
the reason, he told him: To the place where I was commanded to 
take the lives of these two men, thou hast sent them, for they 
died at the gate of Luz. Thensaid Solomon: The feet of a man 
are his securities; where he is needed, to that place they bring 
him. 

We have learned in a Boraitha: It was said that Rabban 
Simeon b. Gamaliel, when he rejoiced at the drawing of water, 
would take eight flambeaux in his hands, and throw them into the 
air, and catch, and one would not touch another. When he used 
to prostrate himself, he fixed his thumbs on the ground, and 
bowed, and kissed the floor, and then raised himself, and no 
creature can do so. And this is what is called Qidah. Levi tried 
to make such a Qidah in the presence of Rabhi, and became lame 
on one leg. Levi also tried in the presence of Rabhi to throw 
and catch eight knives.. Samuel tried to do so in the presence of 
Sha’bur the king with eight goblets full of wine; and Abayi in 
the presence of Rabha with eight eggs, according to others with 
four eggs. We have learned in a Boraitha: R. Joshua b. R. 
Hananiah said: When we were engaged in rejoicing at the draw- 
ing of water, our eyes saw no sleep. How so? The first hour 
for the morning daily sacrifice; afterwards for praying, and from 
that to the additional sacrifice; after that the additional prayer ; 
afterwards we went to the house of learning; from there we went to 
eat and drink at home, and afterwards the Min’ha prayer; and 
from the Min’ha prayer to the daily evening sacrifices, and from 
that time we rejoiced at the drawing of the water till the morn- 





* Rashi explains this that Hillel said so in the name of the Shekhina—that the 
Shekhina says: “ As long as I am in the’ Temple, all are here; but if I am not here, 
who shall be here?” In the Palestiniaf’ Talmud, however, it is explained that he says 
it of himself ; Tosphoth, however, said that the:second part based on the verse 
shows that Rashi’s explanation is correct. 





TRACT SUCCAH. 85 


ing. But this is not so? Did not R. Johanan say: If one says: 
I swear I will not sleep three days, he shall get stripes for a false 
oath, and shall go to sleep immediately ? He meant to say: We 
have not tasted any sleep, for we slept each on the other's 
shoulders. 

“ Fifteen songs of degrees,” etc. Said R. Hisda to one of the 
rabbis who read the Agada (legends) before him: Have you heard 
of the fifteen songs of the degrees, for what purpose David com- 
posed them? He answered: So said R. Johanan: When David 
was mining under the altar to get water, water burst out ready 
to overflow the world; there he composed the fifteen songs of 
degrees, and therewith checked it. 

“ We belong to God and we ratse our eyes to God.” This is not 
so? Did not R. Zera say: One who said twice, “ Shema, Shema,”’ 
is the same as if he had said, “ Modim, Modim,”* of which a 
Mishna says, that he must be silenced? The Mishna meant 
thus: Our ancestors bowed toward the east to the sun, but only 
to God we bow, and our eyes we raise in hope to God. 

MISHNA: In the Temple they never blew the trumpet less 
than twenty-one times a day, nor oftener than forty-eight times. 
They daily blew the trumpet twenty-one times: thrice at opening 
the gates, nine times at the daily morning offering, and nine 
times at the daily evening offering. When additional offerings 
were brought, they blew nine times more. On the eve of the 
Sabbath, they blew six times more: thrice to interdict the peo- 
ple from doing work, and thrice to separate the holy day from 
the work day. But on the eve of the Sabbath, during the festi- 
val (of Tabernacles) they blew forty-eight times: thrice at the 
opening of the gates, thrice at the upper gate, thrice at the lower 
gate, thrice at the drawing of water, thrice over the altar, nine 
times at the daily morning offering, nine times at the daily even- 
ing offering, nine times at the additional offerings, thrice to inter- 
dict the people from doing work, and thrice to separate the holy 
day from the work day. 

GEMARA: Our Mishna is not in accordance with R. Jehu- 
dah of the following Boraitha: According to those who say they 
were few, they were not less than seven; and according to those 
who say that they were many, they were not more than sixteen. 

What is the point on which they differ? R. Jehudah holds 
that blowing and alarming are one and the same thing, while 





* This is explained in Tract Berachoth, Chap. V., Mishna 3. 


86 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. : 


the sages hold that they are two separate things. But what is 
the reason of R. Jehudah? Because it is written [Num. x. 5]: | 
“ And when ye blow an alarm.” The rabbis, however, maintain 
that the passage means to say, that before and after the alarm- 
ing a common blowing must be used. What is the reason of the 
rabbis’ decree? Because. it is written [ibid. 7]: “ But at the as- 
sembling of the assembly, ye shall blow, but he shall not sound 
an alarm”; hence blowing and alarming are two separate things, 
for if they were not, how could the Merciful One command to 
do only half of the merit. 

According to whom would be the saying of R. Kahana that 
there is no difference between a 7ekiah (a blowing) and a Teruah 
(an alarming) whatever? This is certainly in accordance with R. 
Jehudah. 

“ But on the eve of Sabbath, during the festival.” The Mishna 
does not count the times that they blew when they ascended the 
tenth step, and therefore we must assume the Mishna is in ac- 
cordance with R. Eliezer b. Jacob from the following Boraitha: 
Three times they blew, when they ascended the tenth step. R. 
Eliezer b. Jacob, however, said: These three times they blew 
over the altar. From this we see that those who said it was blown 
over the altar, do not hold it was blown on the tenth step; 
and he who says it was blown on the tenth step, does not mean 
to say it was blown over the altar. What is the reason of 
Eliezer b. Jacob? He meant, when it was blown at the opening 
of the gates, it was not necessary to blow again on the tenth 
step. And what is the reason of the rabbis? They hold that 
when it was blown at the drawing of the water, it was unnecessary 
to blow over the altar. And therefore they gave preference to 
the ascending of the tenth step. When R. A’ha bar Hanina 
came from the South, he brought a Boraitha with him, thus: 
It is written [Num. x. 8]: “And the sons of Aaron the priest 
shall blow with the trumpets.” This verse is superfluous, because 
there it is already written [ibid. 10]: “Shall ye blow with the 
trumpets over your burnt-offerings, and over the sacrifices of your 
peace-offerings.” And why is the first-cited verse needed? To 
signify that they have to blow when there are additional sacri- 
fices. He taught the Boraitha, and he explained it that it meant 
to say, that it was a duty to blow at every additional sacrifice. 

An objection was raised based upon our Mishna: But on 
the eve of Sabbath during the festival they blew forty-eight 
times. Now, if it was so (to blow at each additional sacrifice) 





re ee Ses «YS = 
eA eS ae ie 


TRACT SUCCAH. 87 


let the Mishna state that if the Sabbath falls during the festival 
there were fifty-one (because there was one additional sacrifice) ? 
Said R. Zera: Because they did not blow at the opening of the 
gates on Sabbath. Said Rabha: Who is that who is not careful 


.in his statements? The saying of R. Zera cannot hold good at 


all events. First, the Mishna states that there was blowing every 
day, which certainly includes Sabbath, and, secondly, even if 
the Sabbath, falling during the festival, were equal to the eve of 
Sabbath (in regard to blowing), the Mishna would not mention 
the eve of Sabbath, instead of the Sabbath itself, of which we 
could learn two things: that of R. Eliezer b. Jacob, that the 
blowing was not on the tenth step, but over the altar,and, secondly, 
what R. A’ha b. Hanina stated above, that they blew at each 
additional sacrifice. 

Therefore said Rabha that the reason (for not mentioning 
Sabbath in our Mishna) is because they did not draw water on 
Sabbath, but on the eve of Sabbath, as stated supra; and 
then there were many blowings less (namely, the blowing when 
they reached the upper and the lower gate, the water-gate, and 


- over the altar). 


But let the Mishna state, when New Year falls on a Sabbath, 
when there are three additional sacrifices, namely, the New Year, 
the new moon, and the Sabbath sacrifice. The Mishna, in real- 
ity, left this out, as well as it left out the case when the eve of 
Passover falls on a Sabbath, when there were many additional 
blowings at the slaughtering of the Paschal lamb. 

“ Nor oftener than forty-eight times.’ Isthat so? Did they 
not blow, when the eve of Passover fell on Sabbath, according to 
R. Jehudah fifty-one, and according to the rabbis fifty-seven, 
times? When the Passover offering was brought, it is explained 
in Tract Pesachim (Chap. V., Mishna 5, p. 119) that it was blown 
many times during the time when the three divisions brought their 
offerings. This, which was done every year, is counted in the 
Mishna; but the eve of a Passover that fell on Sabbath, which 
is not every year, but only seldom, is not reckoned. But does 
the eve of Sabbath fall every year on the festival; it may happen 
that the first day of the festival falls on Friday, and then there 
is no eve of Sabbath during the whole festival? If this hap- 
pens, then we prolong the festival for another day, because if the 
first day of the Feast of Tabernacles would be on Friday, the 
Day of Atonement would fall on Sunday, and no Day of Atone- 
ment must fall on Friday or on Sunday. An objection was raised : 


88 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


We have learned that if the first day of the month falls on Sab- 
bath, the song of the first of the month supersedes the song of 
the Sabbath. Now, if it would be as R. A’ha interpreted the 
Boraitha before, that they blew at every additional sacrifice, why 
does it supersede? Let the song of the first of the month be: 
sung, and that of Sabbath also? Said R.Saphra: The Boraitha 
which says “supersedes the Sabbath” means, it is said before 
the song of the Sabbath. Why so? Is there not a rule as to 
that which is frequent and that which is rare, that the frequent 
has the preference? Said R. Johanan: This was an exception to 
the rule, that the people should know that this month is con- 
secrated by Beth Din in its time. 

Another objection was raised: Rabha bar Samuel taught : One 
may say, as we must blow every Sabbath separately, and every 
first month separately, so shall we blow at every additional sacri- 
fice? Therefore it is written [Num. x. 10]: “On the beginnings 
of your months” (on the beginnings of the months only, but not 
at additional sacrifices). This objection to R. A’ha’s teaching 
remains. How is it inferred from this passage? Said Abayi: 
Because it is written, “‘on the beginnings of the months,” in the 
plural, all the months shall be equal (and if a first day of the 
month falls ‘on Sabbath, and it would be blown for every addi- 
tional sacrifice, the months would not be equal). R. Ashi says: 
We may infer it from the following: It is written ‘‘ your months,” 
and the “ beginnings,” in the plural. Which month can happen 
to have two beginnings? That is New Year, which is the be- 
ginning of the year and of the month, and it is nevertheless 
written, “your months.” From this we infer, all the first days of 
the months must be equal. We have learned in another Boraitha : 
On the intermediate days the songs were as follows: On the first 
day they used to say from Psalm xxix.: “ Ascribe unto the Lord, 
O ye sons of the mighty”; on the second, from Ps. 1. 16; on 
the third, Ps. xciv. 16; on the fourth, ibid. 8; on the fifth day, 
Ps, Ixxxi. 7. On the sixth day they used to say Ixxxii. 5: “ All 
the foundations of the earth are moved ”; and if Sabbath fall on 
one of these days, “ All the foundations of the earth are moved ” 
should be superseded. (Now, from what is said, that when Sab- 
bath falls it-is superseded, we see that it was not blown for addi- 
tional offerings.) The objection of R. A’ha remains. But did 
not R. A’ha bar Hanina cite both a verse anda Boraitha? Said 
Rabbina: The Boraitha which says it was blown at additional 
offerings, meant to say it was blown a little longer, but not a 








TRACT SUCCAH. 89 


greater number of times. The rabbis of Czsarea in the name 
of R. A’ha said: It was added to the number of trumpets. 

And we in exile, who keep two days of festival, how shall we 
say in the additional prayer the passages [Num. xxix. 17-32] 
about the sacrifices? Amemar ordained in Nehardai: The sec- 
ond day we should leave out verse 17, but on the third day we 
should say (17-20) “ both on the second and third” ; on the fourth 
day (20-23) “the third and the fourth,” etc., because in exile it 
was doubtful when the first of the month was consecrated. 

MISHNA: On the first holy day of the festival there were 
thirteen bullocks, two rams, and one goat to be offered. There 
then remained fourteen lambs for eight orders of priests. On 
the first day of the festival six of these orders offered two lambs 
each, and the other two orders one lamb each: On the second 
day five of the orders offered two lambs each, and the remaining 
four orders one lamb each. On the third day four orders offered 
two lambs each, and the remaining six orders one lamb each. 
On the fourth day three orders offered two lambs each, and the 
remaining eight orders one lamb each. On the fifth day two 
orders offered two lambs each, and the remaining ten orders one 
lamb each. On the sixth day one order offered two lambs, and 
the remaining twelve orders one lamb each. On the seventh day 
they were all equal. On the eighth day they cast lots, as on 
other festivals. It was so regulated that the order which offered 
bullocks one day were not permitted to offer bullocks the next 
day, but it went in rotation. 

GEMARA: These seventy bullocks, for what purpose were 
they offered? Said R. Elazar: For the sake of the seventy 
nations which existed then. And to what purpose was offered 
the one bullock [Num. xxix. 36]? For the sake of the single 
nation (Israel). It can be compared toa human king who says 
to his slaves: Make for me a great meal for several days. On 
the last day he says to his friend: You make for me a little meal, 
that I should have a benefit from yourself only. Said R. Jo- 
hanan: Woe be to the nations, they have lost, and they do not 
know even what they have lost! When the Temple was in ex- 
istence, the altar atoned for their sins, but now who shall atone 
for. their sins ? 

MISHNA: Three times in the year all the twenty-four orders 
of priests were alike entitled to share the pieces of offerings of 
the festival, and in the shewbread; and on the Feast of Pente- 
cost the distributors say to each priest: “ Here is leavened bread 


go THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


for thee, and here is unleavened bread for thee.” The order of 
priests whose regular time of service occurs in the festivals offer 
the continual daily offerings, vows, and voluntary offerings, and 
all congregational offerings, and every sacrifice. 

GEMARA: The pieces of the offerings? They were brought 
to the altar? Said R. Hisda: Do not read “ pieces* of the offer- 
ing,’ but “the offerings that were said to be sacrificed on the 
festivals.” The rabbis taught: Whence do we deduce that all 
the orders of the priests had equal shares of the offerings of the 
festival? Because it is written [Deut. xviii. 6]: “And come with 
all the longing of his soul . . . he shall minister.” Lest one 
say, on any day of the year it should be also so, therefore it is 
written, “from any one of thy gates,” to signify, this is only 
when all Israel comes through one gate. 

“ And in the shewbread.’ The rabbis taught: Whence do we 
deduce that all the orders of the priests have equal shares of the 
shewbread? From what is written [Deut. xviii. 8]: ‘‘ They shall 
have like portions to eat.”” That means, according to his share 
in the service shall be his share in eating. But what is meant by 
eating? Shall we assume, that means to eat his share of the sac- 
rifice? This is already deduced from Leviticus, vii. 9: “Shall 
belong to the priest that offereth it alone.” Hence it means only 
the eating of the shewbread. But lest one say, they shall have a 
share also in the duty-offerings which are not dependent on the 
festival, therefore it is written [Deut. xviii. 8]: “ Beside that 
which cometh of the sale of his patrimony.” What is meant by 
selling the patrimony? That they have divided the weeks: I 
and my children shall take this week, and you shall have the 
other week. 

“ And on Pentecost,’ etc. It was taught: (If one has to pro- 
nounce two benedictions, of the Succah and the time,) Rabh said, 
he shall pronounce first the benediction of the Succah, and after 
this that of the time; and Rabha bar bar Hana said, that of the 
time first. The reason of Rabh is because the duty of the day 
must be given preference ; and Rabha bar bar Hana’s, the frequent 
thing has the preference over the rarer thing (and the benediction 
of the time is said many times in the year, and that of the Suc- 
cah only once a year). An objection was raised from our Mishna: 





* The expression in the Mishna for pieces is )\D‘N, and in Hebrew signifies 
also ‘‘saying” ; and R. Hisda interprets it not pieces, but the saying what ought 
to be sacrificed. 








TRACT SUCCAH. gt 


On Pentecost it is said: “Here is leavened bread, and here is 
unleavened bread.” Now, on the Pentecost, the duty of the day 
is with leavened bread, and nevertheless it mentions unleavened 
bread first, and this would be an objection to Rabh, who says 
that the duty of the day must be given preference? Rabh might 
say: On this differ the Tanaim, as we learn in the following 
Boraitha: Here is unleavened bread, here is leavened bread. R. 
Saul, however, said: Here is leavened bread, here is unleavened 
bread. R.Na’hman b. R. Hisda lectured: It shall be done not 
according to Rabh to pronounce the benediction of Succah before 
that of time, but that of time should be said before that of Suc- 
cah. R.Shesheth the son of R. Idi says: The Succah before the 
time. And so the Halakha prevails. 

“ The order of priests, whose regular time,” etc. What is 
meant by “all congregational sacrifices”? It means to add the 
bullock, which the congregation has to offer for ignorance [Lev. 
iv. 13, 14], and the goat for idolatry. 

“ And every sacrifice.’ What is meant by every sacrifice? It 
means, to supply the deficit on the altar. (See Tract Shekalim, 
Chap. IV., Mishna D.) 

MISHNA: If a festival falls before or after a Sabbath, all the 
twenty-four orders share alike in the shewbread. But if a day 
intervenes between the Sabbath and the festival, the order whose 
regular turn it was, received ten of the shewbread, and the loi- 
terers received two shewbread. At other times of the year the 
order which entered on their duty received six, and that which 
went off duty received also six. R. Jehudah says: That order 
which enters on duty received seven, and that which goes off 
receives five. Those who entered shared them on the north side, 
and those who went out, on the south side (of the Temple court). 
The order Bilgah always divided their share on the south side; 
their slaughter ring was fastened down, and the window of their 
chamber blocked up. 

GEMARA: What is meant by “ before or after”? Shall we 
assume that “before” means the first day of the festival, and 
after a Sabbath? The last day of the festival, is it not the same 
as a Sabbath during the festival? Therefore we must say that 
“before” means, the last day was before a Sabbath, and “after” 
means, the first day was after Sabbath. Why, then, shall the 
shares be equal? The Sabbath does not belong to the festival at 
all? Because those who have to work on the succeeding week 
must come before the Sabbath, and those whose duty was out 


92 THE BABYLONIAN ‘TALMUD. 


could not go away on the festival, and they all stayed in the 
Temple. Therefore the sages: ordained they should have an 
equal share. . 

“ If a day intervene,” etc. And according to R. Jehudah, 
what is the reason that those who enter received two more? Said 
R. Itz’hak: That was the reward for opening the gates. But 
why did they not say, let it be equal for ever, for in the other 
week those who take. seven this week will have five the next? 
Said Abayi: It is better to take a ripe small orange than to wait 
for an unripe large melon. 

“ Those who entered shared them on the north,’ etc. The 
rabbis taught: Those that entered took their shares on the north 
side, that it should be seen they were entering; and those who 
took them on the south side did it that everybody should see 
they were going out. 

“ The order Bilgah,” etc. The rabbis taught: It happened 
to Miriam the daughter of Bilgah that she became an apostate, 
and was married to an officer of the Greek kingdom. When the 
Greeks entered the Temple, she took her sandal and knocked on 
the altar, and said: Lucus, Lucus, how long will you destroy the 
money of Israel, if you cannot help them in their trouble? 
When the sages heard this, they fastened down their ring 
and blocked up the window. But according to others, the 
order of Bilgah was always late to come, and the order of 
Jeshebab his brother substituted them; and although always 
the neighbors of the wicked are not benefited, the neighbors of 
Bilgah have benefited, because they took their share always in 
the south, and those of Jeshebab his brother always in the north. 
It is right according to those who. say that the whole order was 
late, therefore it was punished; but according to those who say 
that only Miriam, Bilgah’s daughter, became apostate, can it be 
that the Bilgah should be punished for his daughter? Said 
Abayi: Yea, because people say, what a child speaks in the street, 
it has heard either from its father or from its mother. But must 
the whole order be punished for the sin of her father and mother? 
Said Abayi: Woe be to the wicked, and woe be to his neighbor; 
well be to the ‘righteous, and well be to his neighbor, as it is 
written [Is. iii. 10]: “Say ye to the righteous, that he hath done 
well; for the fruit of their doings shall they eat.” 


END OF TRACT SUCCAH. 


_(MINOR FESTIVALS) 


= 
> 
wv. 
Q 
w 
© 
= 
= 
: 





CONTENTS. 





PAGE 
Synopsis OF SusBjects oF Votume VII.—Tract MorEp 


KATAN, . e ° 2 e e . ° s o iii 


CHAPTER -I. 
REGULATIONS CONCERNING LABOR AND MARRIAGE IN THE 
INTERMEDIATE Days, . - R o 4 ° ° Pea 
CHAPTER II. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING LABOR. MOURNING AND BUYING 
AND DoinG BUSINEss IN THAT TIME, AND ALSO IN THE 
INTERMEDIATE Days, . , ‘ . ° ° ° - 19 


CHAPTER III. 


REGULATIONS REGARDING MOURNING ON FESTIVALS, REGARD- 
ING THOSE WHO ARE UNDER THE BAN, AND WASHING, . 25 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


VOLUME VII.—TRACT MOED KATAN.* 





CHAPTER I. 


MISHNAS I, to III. How dry and low-land may be irrigated from newly 
sprung fountain and rain water, on the middle days. Is grubbing up olive- 
trees permitted during the Sabbatical year? Is one court permitted to 
overrule the decision of another? Where is it deduced from the Scriptures 
that tombs must be marked? Messengers on account of Kilaim, when 
and for what reason they were sent. The irrigating of plants and yard- 
gardens. How to stop a gap in a fence, in the middle days and the Sabbati- 
CAN. VORB oe phar iuneekia aes p tt aM Oy ae See rt gue! gi REE RTT LY Sey 

MISHNAS IV. to IX. How the priests had to make the inspection of 
plagues. If itis allowed to gather the bones of parents in the minor festivals. 
If a funeral oration may be held thirty days before the festival. About digging 
and preparing graves in the minor festivals. If one may espouse a wife in 
those days. The explanation of I Kings viii. 66, and the legend of Solomon 
and the gates. The allegorical blessings of Jonathan and Jehudah the dis- 
ciples of Ben Jo’hi to his son, and their interpretation by his father. How 
Rabh interpreted the advice of Ben Halafta to his own son as a blessing 
from the Scripture. The especial labors which may and may not be done on 
the middle days, and also the difference between a layman and a specialist 
on this subject, , : . . . . . . . - 918 


CHAPTER II. 


MISHNAS I, to VI. Which labors may be done in the usual manner and 
which must be changed in their manner. If the property of one was fined 
by the court for violating the minor feasts, and he dies, is it in force for his 
heirs? And how it shall be done inthe buying and selling places, . 19-24 


CHAPTER III. 


MISHNA I. Who may trim their hair. If mourning and the burden of ban 
must be observed on the festival and middle days. Whence do we deduce 





* See footnote in Tract Succah. 


iv SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


that the court has power to summon, to appoint a time, and to postpone 
trials and to excommunicate? For what cases one may be put under the 
ban, and what is the fixed time for rebuke, ban, and excommunication. 
What happened to a young scholar whom R. Jehudah put under the ban. 
How the maid-servant of Rabbi put one under the ban for beating his grown- 
up son, and what the rabbis said to that. What Mar Zutra the Pious did 
when a young scholar was delinquent, . . . . . + 25-34 


MISHNAS II. to VII. What documents are allowed to be written. About 
bonds and debts. About Phylacteries, etc. Do the days of the festival post- 
pone the mourning or abolish? The difference in this subject between 
Sabbath and a festival, and as to a difference also between the festivals them- 
selves, and which of them enter into computation. Ifthe garments are to be 
rent for certain relatives, and how to do it on the minor feasts. What 
happened to an Ishmaelitish merchant when the coffins of Rabba and Ham- 
nuna passed by. The Elegy of a disciple on them. The funeral oration on 
Rabina. The answer of Bar Kipuk to the question of R. Ashi: What oration 
he would make on the day of his death ; the oration on a child which died at 
birth; the oration on R. Zera when he has departed in Palestine—a// in 
verse. To whom it must be said: ‘Go in peace,” and to whom, “Go with 
peace,” * . é « « . ° . . . . « 35-45 


TRACT MOED KATAN (MINOR 
FESTIVALS). 


CHAPTER I. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING LABOR AND MARRIAGE IN THE INTERMEDI- 
ATE DAYS. 


MISHNA: Beth Hashal’hin (Dry Land) may be irrigated 
during the middle days, and also during the Sabbatical year, as 
well from a fountain that is newly sprung forth as from one that 
is not newly sprung forth; but one must not irrigate it with rain- 
water, nor with water (drawn) from a deep well; nor may one 
make trenches (to hold water) round vines. 

R. Elazar ben Azariah said: “One must not make (dig) a 
fresh trench (conduit, or water course) during the middle days, or 
during the Sabbatical year.” The sages, however, hold, that a 
fresh trench (water course) may be dug during the Sabbatical 
year, and that those (conduits) which are choked up may be repaired 
during the middle days. One may likewise repair water reservoirs 
(which are) on the public ground, and cleanse them. One may 
also repair the roads (streets), the market (public) places, and the 
spring-baths. In short, it is allowed to do whatever the exigen- 
cies of the public (service) require. Tombs may be marked, and 
messengers are to be sent out on account of possible Kilaim.* 

GEMARA: As the Mishna permits irrigation from a newly 
sprung fountain, although its sides are likely to cave in, it is self- 
understood then that it is the more so allowed from a fountain 
not newly sprung, the sides of which are not likely to cave in? 
For what purpose then did the Mishna state expressly that irriga- 
tion is also allowed from a fountain not newly sprung? If not for 
this statement we might assume that from a newly sprung foun- 
tain whose sides are likely to cave in, dry land may and lowland 





* Vide Shekalim, Chap. I., M. a. 


2 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


may not be irrigated, but from a spring not newly sprung even 
Beth Habal (lowland not requiring frequent irrigation) may also 
be irrigated, it therefore comes to teach us that there is no differ- 
ence. 

But whence do we deduce that “ Beth Hashal’hin ” means 
dry land. From the passage [Deut. xxv. 18]: “ When thou wast 
‘faint’ and weary”’; the translation of Onkeles of which is: 
“When thou wast ‘Mshalhi’ and weary.” (The letter “h” is 
changeable for “’h”’; and “ mshalhi’’-is equivalent to “ mshal’hi.’’) 
And whence do we deduce that “ Beth Habal’”’ means “ husband 
fields”? From the passage [Isaiah, Ixii. 5]: “For as a young 
man ‘espouseth’ a virgin,” etc., the translation of Jonathan 
whereof being “as a young man ‘husbands’ a virgin,” etc. 

Who is the Tana who holds that irrigation is permitted only 
for the purpose of preventing loss but not for the purpose of de- 
riving gain; and even in case of loss no troublesome work is per- 
mitted? Said R. Huna: “It is R. Eliezer ben Jacob, as we have 
learned in the following Mishna: R. Eliezer ben Jacob said: 
Water may be conveyed from one tree to another, provided the 
whole orchard be not irrigated.” (This is in the case of lowland and 
because it is only for gain; R. Eliezer said it must not.) From 
this statement it may only be deduced that R. Eliezer holds so 
in case of gain, but no deduction can be made therefrom as to 
where loss is involved? Therefore said R. Papa: It is in accord- 
ance with R. Jehudah ef the following Boraitha: From a newly 
sprung fountain even lowland may be irrigated, this is the dictum 
of R. Meir. R. Jehudah holds that only dry land which became 
ruined may be irrigated. R. Elazar b. Azariah, however, agrees 
with neither of them. R. Jehudah went further than that and 
said: “ One may not direct a water channel to irrigate his garden 
and ruined land, during the middle days.” 

What is meant by “ruined’’? Does it mean actual ruin? 
why then irrigating it? Said Abayi: “It means, land one spring 
of which was ruined but another one sprung forth.” R. Elazar b. 
Azariah, however, does not allow even in this case. But why all 
this argument? Perhaps R. Jehudah did not allow the irrigation 
of lowland only from a new spring, for the reason stated above; 
but from an old spring, the sides of which are not likely to cave in, 
it zs permitted? If this be so, then according to whom would be 
the statement in our Mishna? We, therefore, must say, that 
according to R. Jehudah from both newly sprung and not newly 
sprung fountains dry land may and lowland may not be irrigated ; 


Brat 


TRACT MOED KATAN (MINOR FESTIVALS). 3 


and the statement in the Boraitha: “ From a newly sprung foun- 
tain,” etc., is for the purpose of indicating the extent of R. Meir’s 
permission, viz., that dry land may be irrigated, and even from a 
newly sprung fountain. It was taught: “One who weeds or 
waters plants on Sabbath, against what principal labor must he 
be warned?” * Said Rabba: “ Ploughing, as these are derivative 
from it.” R. Joseph, however, said: “Sowing, as these are 
derivative from it.” 

This would be correct as for the intermitting days, during 
which work is permitted in case of loss; but as for the Sabbatical 
year, during which both ploughing and sowing are prohibited, how 
can it be allowed? Said Abayi: “ The Mishna treats of the 
Sabbatical year subsequent to the destruction of the Temple, and 
Rabbi said elsewhere that this is only rabbinical.” Rabha, how- 
ever, said: “The Mishna may be explained even according to 
the rabbis, who hold that it is biblical, but the Scripture prohibits 
only principal labors but not derivative; as it is written [Lev. 
xxv. 4]: “But in the seventh year there shall be a sabbath of 
rest unto the land, a sabbath of the Lord; thy field shalt thou 
not sow, and thy vineyard shalt thou not prune,” etc. Let us 
see: Is not sowing the principal of pruning, and is not reaping 
the principal of gathering? For what purpose then did the 
Scripture expressly state pruning and gathering? We must say 
that it is to point out the derivatives for which one 7s liable. 

But is one not liable even for other derivatives? Did we not 
learn in a Boraitha: It is written [Lev. xxv. 4]: ‘“‘ Thy field shalt 
thou not sow, and thy vineyard shalt thou not prune”? Whence 
do we deduce that weeding, grubbing up vines, cutting, plucking, 
sawing (off branches, when they are too numerous), and support- 
ing (trees), manuring, removing rubbish from the roots, or cover- 
ing the roots with earth, or smoking (for the purpose of killing 
the insects on the tree) are also not permitted to be done during 
the Sabbatical year? From the arrangements of the words in 
the passage: It is not written: “Thou shalt not sow thy field, 
and thou shalt not prune thy vineyard,” but, “ Thy field shalt 
thou not sow,” etc., which indicates that all work pertaining to 
the field and all work pertaining to the vineyard shall not be 
done. But this generalization does not include grubbing up 
olive-trees, or vines, or filling water conduits, or digging trenches 





* No capital punishment, nor even that of stripes, is inflicted without a previous 
warning. Vide Introduction to Sabbath, p, xxvi. 


4 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


round-vines. Whence do we deduce these exceptions? From 
the statement, “ Thy field thou shalt not sow.” Was not sowing 
included in the general commandment, “ A year of rest shall it 
be unto the land”? Why the repetition of sowing? For the 
purpose of comparison: As “sowing” includes both the field 
and the vineyard, so other labor similar to it is prohibited. 
(Hence we see that for other derivatives one is also liable ?) 
Nay, all those enumerated in the Boraitha are only rabbinical 
prohibitions, and the biblical passage is only a slight reference. 

Is grubbing up olive-trees permitted during the Sabbatical 
year? Is it not written [Exod. xxii. 11]: “But the seventh 
year shalt thou let it rest and lie still,” etc., and it was construed 
to mean, “let it rest from being grubbed, and lie still from being 
cleaned from stones”? Said R. Uqba bar Hama: “Grub- 
bing is done for two different purposes, viz., to promote the 
growth of, and to fill the cracks in the tree; the latter is per- 
mitted, the former is not. 

We have learned in a Mishna (Shekalim I., 1): “ Up to what 
time is it permitted to dig in an orchard during the year immedi- 
ately preceding the Sabbatical year? The school of Shammai 
hold, during all the time the fruit may benefit thereby. The 
school of Hillel, however, decree, up to the feast of Pentecost.” 
Both these limits are almost identical. And up to what time is 
it permitted to plough corn-fields during the year preceding the 
Sabbatical year? Until the ground ceases to be damp, and 
during all the time people till the soil to plant melons and 
cucumbers. Said R. Simeon: “If this be so, then the Law per- 
mitted every individual to fix his own time?” Therefore, the 
time is fixed as follows: Corn-fields may be tilled up to the Pass- 
over and orchards up to Pentecost. (The school of Hillel fix the 
time at the Passover.) And R. Simeon ben Pazzi in the name of 
R. Joshua ben Levi, quoting Bar Qappara, said: “ Rabban Ga- 
maliel and his tribunal have abolished those two limits.” Said R. 
Zera to R. Abbahu (and according to others, Resh Lakish to R. 
Johanan) : “ How could Rabban Gamaliel and his court abolish 
a regulation established by the schools of Shammai and Hillel ? 
Did we not learn ina Mishna: No one court is permitted to over- 
rule the decision of another court, unless they exceed the other 
in number and wisdom? He was astound for one hour [ Daniel, 
iv. 16], and then answered: Say, so was the condition of the 
first court, that those who differ with them may overrule them. 
R. Ashi, however, said: Rabban Gamaliel and his court are in 





TRACT MOED KATAN (MINOR FESTIVALS). 5 


accordance with R. Ishmael, who holds that this was oral law, 
and as such it was binding only during the existence of the 
Temple, similar to that of “ pouring water on the altar,” but not 
after. 

The rabbis taught: “It is not permitted to irrigate from the 
water basins, or trenches, which were filled with rain-water on 
the eve of the feast, unless there is a water-channel passing 
between them.” Said R. Papa: “Even this is permitted only 
where the greater part of the land is irrigated therefrom.” R. 
Ashi, however, said: “ It is permitted even if this is not the case, 
for when water is likely to flow in (into the channel) one is not 
likely to do any troublesome work, and is rather likely to think 
to himself, ‘if it cannot be irrigated in one day it will be so in 
two or three days.’”’ 

The rabbis taught : “It is permitted to irrigate dry land from 
a water basin which receives its water supply from the dry land 
situated above it” (the upper land being irrigated from a well 
and some water is dripping down into the basin). But is it not 
likely to cease (and some troublesome work may be done in 
bringing water from another place)? Said R. Jeremiah: “ The 
case is when it is still dripping.” Abayi adds: ‘“ This case holds 
good only when the original spring has not ceased.” 

“One must not make a fresh trench,” etc. This would be cor- 
rect in reference to.the middle days, because it is considered 
work, but what is the reason for the Sabbatical year? R. Zera 
and R. Abba bar Mamel: One holds, the reason is because it 
resembles delving; and the other says, because it is considered a 
preparation of the adjacent ground for sowing. 

“And those conduits that are choked up may be cleansed.” 
What is meant by “choked up”? Said R. Abba: “If it was 
only one span deep, it may be restored to its original depth of 
six spans.” 

Abayi allowed the inhabitants of Hamdoch to cut off the 
branches of the trees growing in the river (during the middle 
days). R. Jeremiah allowed the inhabitants of Sekutha to 
cleanse a choked well of the river. R. Ashi permitted the inhab- 
itants of Matha M’hasiah to deepen the river Burniz; and the 
reason assigned by him for this permission was, that because 
many persons used its water it was to be considered as a public 
necessity, and our Mishna states that all work for public service 
is permitted. 

“ One may repair water reservoirs located on public ground.” 


6 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Is cleansing only, and no digging, permitted? Said R. Jacob in 
the name of R. Johanan: The Mishna refers to a case in which 
the public do not need it, but otherwise even digging is per- 
mitted. Is that so? Have we not learned in a Boraitha: 
“ Basins, pits, and cavities may be cleansed, if they belong to 
private persons, and so much the more if they are public. But 
it is not allowed to dig even when they are public, and so much 
the more when they are private.’ Should we not assume, that 
it is not permitted even when needed by the public? Nay, the 
case is when the public do not need it. Then how would it bein 
case of the private ones? Shall we assume that it is even when 
one does not need it? Then why should cleansing be permitted ? 
Explain thus: Private basins may be cleansed when needed by 
him, and so much the more public basins if required by the 
public; but it is not permitted to do so even when they are 
public in case they are not needed by the public, and so much 
the more private ones if not needed by the owners, for if not 
needed by the owners even cleansing is not permitted. Said 
R. Ashi: “The explanation of our Mishna seems to mean the 
same, as it states a// that is necessary,” etc., and this word “ all” 
adds also digging. But the expression “all” may include the 
works enumerated in the following Boraitha: Messengers may 
be sent out (on the middle days) to remove prickles from the 
roads and to repair the markets and thoroughfares, and to ascer- 
tain the contents of the legal baths; and if they do not contain 
the prescribed measure they must be regulated. And whence do 
we deduce that if the messengers were not sent out and in conse- 
quence thereof an accident happened, that those guilty of such 
neglect are personally charged with having caused that accident ? 
Therefore it is written [Deut. xix. 10]: “And bloodguiltiness 
be brought upon thee’’? Are all these not expressly stated in our 
Mishna? “The roads,” etc., “may be repaired?” why then 
repeat, “all’’ what is required by the public, etc.2 We must then 
assume that it adds digging. Infer herefrom. 

“And tombs may be marked,” etc. KR. Simeon b. Pazzi said: 
Where is it hinted at in the Scripture that tombs must. be 
marked? It is written [Ezek. xxxix. 15]: ‘“‘ When any one 
seeth a man’s bone, there shall be set up a sign by it.” Said 
Rabina to R. Ashi: Were not tombs marked prior to Ezekiel ? 
Therefore we must say, that it was traditional and the passage in 
’ Ezekiel only refers to it. Rabina, however, said: We may find 
a reference to this in the following passage [Psalms, 1. 23]: “And 





TRACT MOED KATAN (MINOR FESTIVALS). 7 


to him that ordered his course aright will I show the salvation of 
God.” (From this passage it may be inferred that the tombs were 
marked in order not to pass over them.) As R. Joshua b. Levi 
said: One who weighs his ways will be rewarded in seeing the sal- 
vation of the Holy One, blessed be He. As the Hebrew term of 
the above passage is “ Vessom derech,” do not read “ vessom,” 
but “veshom.”* A pupil of R. Janai who was wont to ask 
questions of the latter whenever he was lecturing, refrained from 
doing so on the Sabbath preceding a holiday, when a multitude 
of people used to gather (for fear that R. Janai might not be 
able to answer him and get confused), and R. Janai referred to 
him the passage just quoted (as explained by R. Joshua b. Levi). 

The rabbis taught: Those things which cannot communicate 
uncleanliness when in a tent need not be marked; but the fol- 
lowing parts of a dead person must be marked: the spinal cord ; 
the head; the major part of the structure of the skeleton, and 
the major number of parts of the skeleton. Those places which 
are known to be unclean need not be marked, but those which 
are doubtful need be. The following are considered doubtful 
places: Those having trees with spread out branches, places near 
fences the stones of which are projecting forward, and Beth 
Haperes (Perch): and no signs should be put up on the very spot 
of the uncleanliness (but a short distance away), in order not to 
injure those who are clean (because if one inadvertently approaches 
the sign he becomes unclean); neither shall a sign be put too far 
away from the unclean spot, in order not to injure the land of 
Israel (¢.e., not to mark too much clean space as unclean). R. 
Jehudah said: “No marking should be done unless there is the 
Elder (of the congregation) or a scholar, for not every one is 
experienced in such things.” Said Abayi: “From this we may 
infer, that if there is a young scholar in the city, all the business 
of the congregation must be attended to by him”’ (if there is no 
one else do do it). 

“And messengers are to be sent out on account of Kilaim.” 
Were messengers sent out on the middle days? Have we not 
learned in a Mishna (Shekalim, I., a) that they were sent out on 
the first day of Adar? R. Elazar and R. Jose bar’Hanina: One 
explains the contradiction thus: “Our Mishna relates to those 





* The letter ‘‘Shin” in Hebrew when pointed rightward reads ‘‘sh”; when 
pointed left reads ‘‘ss.” The word ‘‘shom” in question is pointed left and the 
rabbi reads it as if pointed right, and explains it to have the meaning of the Ara- 
maic ‘‘ Shomin ”—to weigh, to estimate, 


8 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


plants which are late in season and the other to those early in 
season.” The other explains that our Mishna refers to vegetables 
and the other toherbs. Said R. Assi in the name of R. Johanan: 
This is the case only when the plants have not sprung up, but 
when they have (and Kilaim were noticed) messengers are sent 
out even before. Why are messengers sent out on the middle 
days? Said R. Jacob in the name of R. Johanan: Because on 
those days labor is cheap. How much of the mixed seeds must 
there be in order to constitute Kilaim? Said R. Samuel bar 
Itz’hak: As we have learned (in Kilaim, II., 1): “ Every Sah 
that contains one-fourth of seed of another species must be 
lessened.” But did we not learn in a Boraitha: “It was de- 


termined that the whole field be confiscated (made ownerless)’’? . 


This presents no difficulty. The former was said before and the 
latter after the determination was made, as we have learned ina 
Boraitha: Formerly the messengers used to pull out the Kilaim 
and throw them to the cattle, and the owners used to be doubly 
pleased, first because their fields were weeded, and secondly be- 
cause their cattle were fed; so it was determined that it be pulled 
out and thrown on the roads, but the owners were still very 
pleased because of the weeding of their fields, and it was finally 
determined that the whole field should be given to the free use 
of the people. 

MISHNA: R. Elazar ben Jacob said: “One may lead water 
from one tree to another, provided always the whole orchard be 
not irrigated ; plants which have not imbibed (water) before the 
middle days, must not be irrigated during the middle days. The 
sages, however, permit both.” . : 

GEMARA: R. Jehtudah said: “If it was damp land it may 
be done.” So also we have learned in the following Boraitha: 
The prohibition to irrigate during the middle days applies only 


to plants that have not imbibed prior to the feast, but those that ~ 


have may be irrigated during the middle days. And if it was 
damp land it may. Withered land, however, must not. But the 
sages permit both. Rabina said: From this it is to be inferred 
that a yard-garden may be besprinkled during the middle days, 
for what is the reason for withered land? because by irrigation it 
is changed from one late in season unto one early in season? 
The same is the case witha yard-garden. 

MISHNA: One may catch Ishuth (moles) and field mice in 
orchards and fields in the usual manner, both during the middle 
days and the Sabbatical yéar. The sages, however, said, that in 


Vee 
Se ee ee 


TRACT MOED KATAN (MINOR FESTIVALS). 9 


an orchard (the vermin may be caught) in the usual manner, but 
that in a corn-field it must not be caught in the usual manner. 
During the middle days one may pile (loose stone) to stop a gap 
in a fence; on the Sabbatical year, however, it may be repaired 
in the ordinary way. 

GEMARA: What is “Ishuth”? Said R. Jehudah: It is 
an eyeless insect. Said Rabha bar Ishmael, and according to 
others R. Yemar bar Shlamia: Where is it mentioned in the 
Scripture that Ishuth is an eyeless insect? It is written [Psalms, 
lviii. 9}: “ As a snail which melted, let him pass away, like the 
untimely birth of a woman: (Ehsheth)* which hath not seen the 
sun.” . 

“ But that in a corn-field it must not be caught in the usual 
manner.’ We have learned in a Boraitha: “R. Simeon ben 
Elazar (or ben Jacob) said: This refers only to those corn-fields 
that are adjacent to a town, but in case of those adjacent to an 
orchard it may be done even in the usual manner, for the reason 
that they might overstep the boundary and injure the trees.” 

“ During the middle days one may pile loose stones to stop a gap 
in a fence.” With what is it stopped? Said R. Joseph: With 
the twigs of shrubbery and the bay-tree. Ina Boraitha we have 
learned: “ The stones may be piled up but no mortar must be 
used.”’ Said R. Hisda: “This applies only to garden fences, 
but in case of court walls it may be rebuilt in the usual manner.” 
Said R. Ashi: This may be inferred from our own Mishna. It 
states: “ And during the Sabbatical year it may be rebuilt in the 
usual manner.” This statement cannot relate to a court wall, 
because there is no reason why it should not be permitted; it 
must then relate to garden fences, and although it looks as if 
done for the purpose of protecting the fruit, infer herefrom that 
it is permitted. 

MISHNA: R. Meir said: Priests make the first inspection of 
the plague (of leprosy) in order to relieve (the patient) but not 
to restrict him. The sages, however, decide, neither to relieve 
nor to restrict. 

GEMARA: We have learned in a Boraitha: “ R. Jose holds, 
neither to relieve nor to restrict, for the reason that if an inspec- 
tion is made, if you cannot relieve him you must restrict him.” 
Said Rabbi: “R. Meir’s decision seems to be more proper in the 





* “© Ishuth” and Ehsheth are similar in pronunciation, and it states, “‘ which 
hath not seen the sun.” 


10 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


case of one who is still subject to the examination; and R. Jose’s 


decision seems to be the more proper one in the case of one who. 


was decidedly afflicted with the disease.” Said Rabha:. They 


all agree that no examination is made (during the middle: days) 


of aclean person; they also all agree that an inspection ‘may be 
made during the first seclusion; * in what they differ is: in the 
case of the second seclusion. One holds that it is discretionary 
with the priest. If he finds him clean, he informs him ; but if he 
finds him unclean, -he keeps silent. And the other holds that, as 
it is written [Lev. xiii. 59]: “ To pronounce him clean or unclean,” 
he must in either case pronounce it. The Master said: “Said 
Rabbi: R. Jose’s decision seems to be more proper,” etc. But 
have we not learned in a Boraitha, vice versa? There is a dif- 
ference of opinions between the Tanaim in regard to Rabbi’s 
statement: One holds that one (who is afflicted with the plague) 
prefers association with the public; and the other holds, that he 
appreciates more the society of his wife. 

MISHNA: R. Meir further said: One may gather the 
bones of his father or mother (during the middle days:to inter 
them), because it is a joy to him (it relieves his mind). But R. 
Jose said: “It is a grief to him” (afflicts his mind). One. must 
not grumble over his dead, nor hold a funeral oration for thirty 
days before the festival. 

GEMARA: There is a contradiction: We have learned in a 
Boraitha (Ebel Rabbatti, XII.): + ‘One who gathers the bones of 
his dead father or mother shall mourn over them the whole. day, 
but not in the evening. Said R. Hisda: This is applicable even 
if they are wrapped up in his mantle (and are not readily seen by 
him?) Said Abayi: Read in the Mishna: R. Meir said, etc., for 
the enjoyment of the festival will prevent him from mourning.” 

“ One must not grumble over his dead.” What is. meant by 
“grumble”? Said Rabh: The funeral orators in Palestine. use 
the following expression in their funeral orations: “ Let all the 
perturbed join him in mourning.” (The Mishna means, then, 
that he should not excite others to mourn.) 

“ Thirty days before the festival.” Why thirty? Said R. 
Kahana, according to others Rabh: “It happened once that a 
funeral orator came around to the house of one who had 
saved up some money for the prescribed pilgrimage to Jerusalem, 





* See Lev. xiii. 5. 
¢ See our introduction to same tract. 


ox 


TRACT MOED KATAN (MINOR FESTIVALS). II 


and he so pleased the wife of the latter with his orations that she 
handed him all her savings, and her husband was prevented from 
going’ to Jerusalem. And therefore it was then determined that 
no exciting oration be held within thirty days preceding a fes- 
tival.” Samuel, however, said: The reason is, because no one 
departed is forgotten by his mourners during the first thirty days. 
In what respect does it make a difference, whether the one or the 
other is the reason? In case one volunteers to do it without 
compensation. (According to Rabh it may, and according to 
Samuel it may not take place.) 

MISHNA: One must not dig graves or burial vaults on the 
middle days; but one may prepare graves (previously dug); and 
also make a washing pit, and a coffin in the same court where the 
corpse lies. This, however, R. Jehudah prohibits, unless the 
boards have been (previously) provided. 

GEMARA. What part is called “grave,” and what part 
“vault ’’? Said R. Jehudah: Grave is the excavation, and vault 
is that part which is built in the grave. So also we have learned 
in a Boraitha. 

“ But one may prepare graves.” What is meant by “ prepa- 
ration”? Said R.Jehudah: “If it was too long it may be short- 
ened.” Ina Boraitha we have learned that it may be made both 
longer and wider. 

“ And a coffin in the same court where the corpse lies.” What 
we read in this Mishna has reference to what the rabbis taught : 
* All that is necessary to be done for the dead may be done: his 
hair may be cut, his wrapper washed ; and his coffin may be pre- 
pared from boards cut before the festival.” R. Simeon ben 
Gamaliel said: “ Timber may be also brought and boards cut 
therefrom, privately in the house.” 

MISHNA: One must not espouse a wife on the middle days 
—neither virgins nor widows; nor must one marry the childless 
widow of his deceased brother,* as that (the espousal) is a cause 
of joy to him (individually), but one may receive back his own 
divorced wife. A woman may prepare her ornaments on the 
middle days. R.Jehudah said: “She must not apply lime (chalk 
as a cosmetic), because it may disfigure her. A layman may sew 
(make stitches) in the regular way ; but the tailor must do it zig- 
zag. One may twine (the ropes in the sacking) of bedsteads.” 
R. Jose, however, said: “ They may only be tightened.” 





* See Deut. xxv. 5-11. 


12 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


GEMARA: And if it isa cause of joy to him, why not? 
Said R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel, and so also said R. Ela- 
zar in the name of R. Oshiya or Hanina: “ For the reason that 
two different joys must not be comingled.” Rabba bar Huna 
said: “ For the reason that the enjoyment of the festival is neg- 
lected on account of the enjoyment over his wife.” Said Abayi 
to R. Joseph: The statement of Rabba bar Huna was originally 
made by Rabh, as R. Daniel bar Ktina said in the name of 
Rabh: Whence do we deduce that it is not permitted to espouse 
wives on the middle days? For it is written [Deut. xvi. 14]: 
“ And thou shalt rejoice on thy feast.” Over thy feast thou shalt 
rejoice, but not over thy wife. Ula said: “ The reason is: Because 
there would be too much trouble.” R. Itz’hak of Naf’ha said: 
“The reason is, in order not to restrict reproduction (for every 
one will postpone his marriage until the festival).” 

An objection was made: We have learned elsewhere: “ All 
those said to be prohibited from espousing wives on the middle 
days, may do so on the eve of the feast.’”” This seems to contra- 
dict all those reasons assigned? This presents no difficulty: 
According to the one who said, because of the enjoyment—the 
main enjoyment over his bride is on the first day only ; according 
to the one who said, it isthe trouble—the main trouble is also on 
the first day only ; and according to the one who said, in order 
not to restrict reproduction—for one single day no one will post- 
pone it. 

But whence do we deduce that two different joys may not be 
comingled? It is written [I Kings, viii. 65]: “And Solomon 
held at the time the feast,’”’ etc., “seven days and seven days, 
even fourteen days.” Now then, if comingling of two different 
joys were permitted, why did Solomon not postpone it until 
the feast and the seven days of the feast would have served for 
both? R. Parnach in the name of R. Johanan: said: On that 
year the Israelites had not observed the Day of Atonement and 
they were perturbed and thought they were sinful, and a 
Heavenly voice was heard announcing: “ All of you are prepared 
for the world to come.” 

It is written [I Kings, viii. 66]: “On the eighth day he dis- 
missed the people, and they blessed the king and they went unto 
their tents,” etc. 

“ And they went unto their tents,” meaning, they found their 
wives clean. ‘“ Joyful”—they were delighted with the brightness 
of the Shekhina. “Glad of heart ”—the wife of every one be- 


TRACT MOED KATAN (MINOR FESTIVALS). 13 


came pregnant with a male child. “Because of the good,” etc. 
—for the announcement of the Heavenly voice, as stated above. 
“For David his servant and Israel his people’—this would be 
correct so far as Israel is concerned, for they were forgiven their 
neglect to observe the Day of Atonement; but what is hinted at 
by the statement, “ For David his servant”? Said R. Jehudah 
in the name of Rabh: When Solomon desired to place the ark in 
the Temple, the gates became fastened to each other and they 
could not be opened. Solomon then pronounced twenty-four 
prayer-songs and was not answered. He then commenced to pray 
[Psalm, xxiv. 7]: “Raise your heads, O ye gates,” etc., and still 
he was not answered ; but when he finally said [II Chron. vi. 42]: 
“O Lord God, turn not away the face of thy anointed, remember 
the pious deeds of David thy servant,” he was at once answered. 
At that moment the enemies of David became as black as the 
bottom of a pot, and then it was known to all that the Holy One, 
blessed be He, had-forgiven David ¢hat sin (of Bath-Sheba). 

R. Jonathan ben Esmai and R. Jehudah b. Gerim had been 
studying the chapter treating of Vows before R. Simeon b. Jo’hi. 
In the evening they took leave of him and departed. On the 
following morning they returned and asked leave again. R. 
Simeon b. Jo’hi questioned them: “ Did you not take leave of 
me last night?” They answered him: “ Did not our Master teach 
us, that a disciple who takes leave of his instructor and remains 
in the same place over night must take leave again?”’ Asit is writ- 
ten [I Kings, vii. 66]: ‘On the ezghth day he dismissed the peo- 
ple, and they blessed the king”; and it is again written [II Chron. 
vii. 10}: “ And on the twenty-third day of the seventh month 
he dismissed the people.” Infer from this, that a disciple who 
after taking leave of his Master remains over night in the same 
place must take leave again. Then he (R. Simeon b. Jo’hi) said 
to his son: “ These men are of nice countenance (scholarly). 
Go and receive their blessing.” He went, and found them dis- 
cussing the contradiction of the following passages: It is written 
[Prov. iv. 26]: “ Balance well the track of thy foot, and let all 
thy ways be firmly right”; and ibid. v. 6 reads: “So that (she) 
cannot balance the path of life”? This presents no difficulty. 
The first passage refers toa commandment that can be performed 
by others, and the other passage has reference to such as cannot 
be performed by others. They again propounded a question : 
It is written [Prov. iii. 15]: ‘She is more precious than pearls, 
and all the things thou valuest are not equal unto her.” From 


14 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


this it seems that Heavenly things are equal. And it is written 
[ibid. viii. 2]: “ And a// the things that men wish for are not equal 
to her”; from which it seems that Heavenly things are also in- 
cluded? And the above answer was applied also to answer this 
contradiction. 

They then turned to him and asked him what his wishes were, 
and he answered: “ Father sent me here to receive your blessing.” 
They then pronounced: “ Let it be the Will that thou shalt sow 
but not reap, thou shalt bring in but not give forth, thou shalt 
give forth but not bring in; thy house shall be ruined and thy 
temporary dwelling shall remain; thy table shall be confused ; 
and thou shalt not see a new year.” When he returned to his 
father he said: “ Not only did they not bless me, but, on the 
contrary, they cursed me!” and he recited the above. His father 
replied: All those are blessings; viz.: ‘Thou shalt sow and 
not reap ” means, allegorically, “‘ Thou shalt bear children and they 
shall not die.” “Thou shalt bring in and not give forth’’— 
“ Thou shalt bring in thy house wives for thy sons, and thy male 
children shall not die, so their wives will not need to leave thy 
house.” ‘Thou shalt give forth and not bring in”—“‘ Thou 
shalt have daughters and their husbands shall not die, so that 
they shall not be compelled to return to thy house.” “Thy 
house shall be ruined and thy temporary dwelling shall remain ” 
—for this world is only a temporary dwelling and the world to 
come is the real house, as it is written [Psalms, xlix. 12]: “Their 
inward thought (Kirbom) is, that their houses are to be forever.” 
Do not read “kirbom,” but “kivrom” (their graves). “Thy 
table shall be confused ”’—by thy many children. “ And thou 
shalt not see a new year ””—“ Thy wife shall not die, so that thou! 
shalt not be compelled to marry another.” 

R. Simeon b. Halafta took leave of Rabh, and the latter said 
to his son: “Go to him and receive his blessing.” R. Simeon 
pronounced the following: ‘“ Let it be the Will that thou shalt 
not shame others and others shall not shame thee.” When he 
returned to his father he said: “ He did not bless me, but only 
advised me.” And his father rejoined: ‘“ Nay, it is a blessing ; 
and it is the same, the Holy One, blessed be He, pronounced 
over Israel, as it is written [Joel, ii. 26]: “And ye shall eat in 
plenty,” etc., “and my people shall not be ashamed unto cter- 
nity’; and repeated in the next passage: “And ye shall know 
that I am in the midst of Israel,” etc., “and my people shall 
not be made ashamed unto eternity.” The repetition herein 


TRACT MOED KATAN (MINOR FESTIVALS). 15 


means,.both that they shall not shame others and others shall 
not shame them. = 

“A woman may prepare her ornaments,” etc. The wife of R. 
Hisda was once ornamenting herself-in the presence of her 
daughter-in-law... R. Huna bar Dinna, who was present at the 
time, said: “It seems to me that: only a young woman is allowed 
to prepare her ornaments, but not an old one?” And R. Hisda 
rejoined: “ By the Lord! even your mother and your grand- 
mother, and even the woman who is.on the brink of her grave; 
as the proverb goes: ‘A woman of. sixty is as enthusiastic over 
the music:of a cymbal as a girl of six.’”’: 

“ R. Jehudah. said: She must not apply lime,” etc.. R. Bibi’s 
daughter applied gradually. cosmetics to every part of: her body, 
and..she improved so: much that she received a dowry of four 
hundred Zuz... The daughter of a stranger who resided in the 
neighborhood (of R. Bibi), learning of that, applied a cosmetic at 
once to all parts of her body, and. in. consequence thereof: died. 
The stranger then said: :“‘ Bibi-killed my daughter.” R. Na’hman 
said: “In R. Bibi's house, where beer was used, his daughters 
had to use cosmetics, but in. our houses, where beer is not used, 
our daughters need..not apply cosmetics.” 

“ The layman may sew in the regular way,” etc. Who-is con- 
sidered a layman? The school of R. Janai explained, one who is 
not experienced. in gathering on the needle; R. Jose bar Hanina 
said: ‘One who cannot properly place the foundation in the 
border of a garment.” 

“ They may twine the ropes! etc.. What is the difference 
between “twining” and “tightening.””? When R. Dimi came 
from: Palestine he said: ‘ R. Hyya bar ‘Abba and R. Assi, both 
in the name of Hezekiah and R.. Johanan, differ::.-One says 
“twining” means both.the : shoot : thread; and the warp, and 
“ tightening’? means ‘the shoot only ;.and. the other holds that 
“twining ’ means the warp and not the shoot: thread, and “ tight- 
ening” means “if they were not tight they might be tightened.” 
When ‘Rabin, however, came from Palestine, he declared that as 
to “twining,” all agree that it means the shoot thread and the 
warp; they differ: only as to “tightening”: one holds it means 
the shoot only, and the other holds that: if they were not -tight 
they might be tightened. 

MISHNA: One may erect an oven or a hearth, or a mill, on 
the middle days.. R. Jehudah says:. ‘ New millstones. must not 
be chipped.” 


16 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


GEMARA: What is the meaning of “chipping'’? Said R. 
Jehudah: It means notching. R. Je’hiel said: “It means the 
boring of the centre-hole in the millstone.” R. Hama lectured: 
“‘ Millstones may be cleaned during the middle days.” In the 
name of R. Meir he said: Even the hoofs of the horse and ass 
may be pared, provided they are used for riding; but not the 
hoofs of an ass employed in a treadmill... R. Jehudah permitted 
to pare the hoofs of an ass employed in a treadmill, to place the 
millstones in proper position, and to build a new mill; to erect 
a foundation for the millstones, and also to erect.a stall. Rabha 
permitted to comb a mare, to erect a stand and a colonnade. 
Rabha also permitted to let blood to a domestic animal during 
the middle days. Said Abayi to Rabha: “ We found a Boraitha 
in your support: ‘ Blood may be let to a domestic animal; and no 
restriction is made to the administration of medicines to domestic 
animals during the middle days.’”” Rabha permitted to press gar- 
ments. Why so? For the reason that it can be done by any 
unskilled person. Rabha said again: “ Trading even in the most 
moderate degree is not permitted.’’ Said R. Jose bar Abin: 
“ But in case of perishable articles it is.” Rabina was to com- 
plete a transaction in which he would have earned six thousand 
Zuz, and by postponing it till after the middle days he earned 
twelve thousand. Rabina had to collect some money from the 
inhabitants of the fortress of Shnuatha, and he consulted R. Ashi 
whether to go there or not. R. Ashi told him: “If you think 
you can find them now and not on other days, it is as if it were 
perishable articles and you may do it.”’.. We have learned in a 
Boraitha similar to that just stated, in regard:to dealings with 
idolaters: “It is permitted to attend markets of idolaters and 
to purchase domestic animals, male and. female slaves, land 
and vineyards, and to write out'the deeds and record the same, 
for it is considered as if rescued from their hands.” Rabh 
permitted Hyya bar Ashi to construct a: fisher’s net on the 
middle days. R. Jehudah permitted Ami, the oven-builder, to 
erect an oven, and to Rabba asa) Eshbi he permitted to mesh 
a sieve. 

MISHNA: A railing foaluistindte) sx may be made round a roof, 
or gallery, in the way a layman does it, but not in the way it is 
done by amechanic. Rents (in the roofs) may also be closed; and 
(then) smoothed with a roller, or with hand.and foot, but not 
with a trowel. Should the hinges of the door-frame, or tlie beam, 
or the lock (of the door), or the key (thereto) have been broken 


TRACT MOED KATAN (MINOR FESTIVALS). 17 


they may be repaired on the middle days, provided always one 
does not intentionally put off the repairs till the middle days. 
All (kinds of) pickled food of which one can eat redone; the mid- 
dle days may be pickled. 

GEMARA: What is meant “ in the way Be a layman”? Said 
R. Joseph: “ With twigs or wire.” A Boraitha states: When 
the railing was not smeared with clay. 

“ Rents may be closed,” etc. If they may be smoothed with a 
- roller, it is self-understood then that it may be done so with the 
hand and foot? This should be understood thus: “ Rents may. 
be closed and smoothed with hand and foot as if done with a. 
roller, but not with a trowel.” 

“ Should the hinges of the door,” etc., “ they may be repaired,” 
etc. Is there not a contradiction from what we have learned, 
that “up to his days (of R. Jo’hanan, the high-priest) the 
sound of the hammer (falling on the anvil) used to be heard 
in Jerusalem,” etc., from which we see, only up to his days, 
but not afterwards? Nay, this presents no difficulty. The 
statement just quoted has reference to a blacksmith’s ham- 
mer, and that mentioned in our Mishna relates to that of a 
carpenter. 

“All pickled food of which,” etc. The river Bditha of Libai 
‘had an abundance of fish, and any one who wanted to fish them 
could do so. Rabha permitted to go there, bring fish and salt 
them. Said Abayi to him: ‘Does not our Mishna state, only 
those foods that can be eaten on the middle days?” Rabha 
replied : These can also be eaten by washing them first, as it 
happened once with Samuel, who was served with (pickled) 
fish, and he ate them after washing them sixty times. Rabha 
happened once to be in the house of the Exilarch (on the 
middle days), and he was served with pickled fish which were 
washed sixty times, and he partook of them. Rabh was once 
the guest of R.Shapir and fish was served, one-third of which 
was cooked, another third pickled, and the rest fried. Rabh 
related: “Ada the fisher once told me that fish taste best some 
time after they are caught.” Rabh further stated: “The same 
told me: ‘Fish should be fried with their brother (salt—for 
both are found in water); after they are fried they should 
be placed with their father (water—which produces fish), and 
they should be eaten with their offspring (their juice); and 
after eating them, drink their father (water).’”  Rabh_ said 


again: “ Ada the fisher told me; ‘One who eats fish, dates, 
2 





CHAPTER II. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING LABOR. MOURNING AND BUYING AND 
- DOING BUSINESS IN THAT TIME, AND ALSO IN THE INTERMEDIATE 
_, DAYS, : 


MISHNA: One who has turned his olives, and a death 
occurred in his family; and one who is prevented from at once 
putting them to press, or has been disappointed by his laborers, 
may put the first press-block on, and leave it until after the feast. 
Such is the dictum of R. Jehudah. R. Jose, however, said: “ He 
may put the olives into the oil-press and finish pressing them, and 
bung up the casks in the usual manner.” 

GEMARA: It begins with mourning and ends with the middle 
days (without stating the law relating to the former)? Said R. 
Shesha, son of R. Idi: “ Infer from this, that things permitted on 
the middle days are, nevertheless, prohibited during mourning.” 
R. Ashi says to the contrary: “ Not only in the mourning time, 
which jis only rabbinical, are these things allowed, but even on 
the middle days, during which work is prohibited biblically, in 
the case of loss the rabbis permitted it.” 

The following Boraitha is in support of the assertion of R. 
Shesha, son of R. Idi: The following things are done by others 
for one who is in mourning: If his olives are turned, the press- 
block may be put on, the cask bunged, his flax removed from the 
buck, his wool taken out of the boiler, and his land watered when 
his turn comes on. R. Jehudah said: “ Even his ploughed land 
may be sown and the flax-field planted.” The sages, however, 
maintain, that if not sown early in the season it can be done so 
late in the season ; and if not flax, other plantscan be raised. R. 
Simeon b. Gamaliel, however, said that if he is the only special- 
ist in the place, of all those things mentioned above, they may be 
done by himself privately. And even more than that the same 
Rabban allowed: If he were the only mechanic in the place em- 
ployed by the public, or a barber, or a bather, and the feast was 
approaching, he might perform his functions. Contractors of all 
_ kinds must have others to do their work (during their mourning). 
19 


20 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Those who hire out asses, camels, or ships to others, must not do 
their work. But if at the time (their mourning commences) they 
were already hired out, they might continue. A day laborer, 
although in a place where he is not known, must not work. If 
he were to work for others in his own house, whether under con- 
tract to do it for a definite time or not, he must not do it. If 
others were working for him in his own house, they must postpone 
their work; but in a house other than his own, they might con- 
tinue. Marian, son of Rabhin, and Mar, son of A’ha son of 
Rabha, had a team of oxen in copartnership. One day a death 
occurred in the family of Mar b. A’haand he kept in hisox. Said 
R. Ashi: Why should a great man like Mar do such a thing? If 
he does not consider his own loss, he must consider that of 
another. As stated above: “If they were hired out at the time, 
they might proceed with their work.” He (Mar), however, was of 
the opinion that the case is different when a prominent person is 
concerned. Samuel said: “ Those who do their work under con- 
tract for a definite period of time, if within the legal limits, may 
not ; if outside those limits, they may do it.” R. Papa, however, 
said: Even where it is outside the legal limits, the case is only 
when there is no town adjacent. R. Mesharshia, however, said 
that even where there is no town adjacent the case is so only in 
reference to Sabbath days and festivals, for on those days people 
are few; but as regards the middle days, during which people are 
numerous, it is not permitted. Mar Zutra, son of R. Na’hman, had 
a house built under contract outside of the legal limits. R.Saphra 
and R. Huna bar Hinna happened to be in the neighborhood of 
that house and declined to enter it; and according to others, 
R. Zutra himself also declined to enter it. But has not Samuel 
said that if it was outside of the legal limits it is permitted? R. 
Zutra himself assisted them in placing the straw during the 
progress of the work. R. Hama permitted the Abunagars 
(waiters) of the Exilarch to do their work on the middle 
days; for, he said, they receive no salary, and work only for 
their board, (It is therefore not considered labor, and does 
not matter.) 

The rabbis taught: Work may be taken under contract dur- 
ing the middle days to be done after the feast. But on the 
middle days it is not permitted. The rule is: All that one him- 
self may do, he may have a Gentile do it for him, but not what 
he may not. We have learned in another Boraitha: “Work 
may be taken under contract on the middle days to be performed 





TRACT. MOED KATAN (MINOR FESTIVALS). 25 


after the feast, provided always he does not measure, weigh, or 
count in the usual manner.” 

The rabbis taught: “ No animals should be copulated on the 
middle days; the same applies to the firstborn and also to the 
desecrated ones at any time.” 

The rabbis taught: Cattle must not be brought into the field 
for the purpose of manuring, either on Sabbath days, feast days, 
or middle days. But if they come there of themselves it is per- 
mitted. And no assistance may be afforded to those in charge, 
neither a watchman assigned them to watch their sheep. But 
the case is different if they are hired by the week, month, year, 
or for a period of seven years. Rabbi, however, says: “On Sab- 
bath days it may be done without compensation ; on feasts days, 
for food only ; and on the middle days, even for compensation.” 
Said R. Joseph: “ The Halakha prevails as Rabbi decreed.” 

MISHNA: The same is the case when one whose wine is in 
the press-pit and a death occurred in his family or another acci- 
dent happened ; or if he had been disappointed, he may pour the 
wine into casks, cooper, and bung them up in the usual manner. 
Such is the dictum of R. Jose. But R. Jehudah said: “ He must 
only cover the pit with boards, so that the wine may not grow 
sour.” 

GEMARA: Said R. Itzhak bar Abba: “The Tana who 
holds that on the middle days it must not be done in the usual 
manner, does not accord with R. Jose.” Said R. Joseph: “The 
Halakha, however, prevails as decreed by R. Jose.” A question 
was propounded to Na’hman bar Itzhak: “Is it permitted to 
bung up a beer barrel on the middle days?” He answered: 
“Sinai (R. Joseph) had already stated that the Halakha pre- 
vails as decreed by R. Jose.” But R. Jose’s statement relates 
only to wine, but not to beer? What was the reason for wine— 
because there is a great loss? The same is the case with beer. 
R. Hama bar Guriah said in the name of Rabh: The laws 
regarding the middle days are distinct from each other and can- 
not. be compared for the purpose of inference. As Samuel 
said: “A jug may, but a barrel may not be covered with tar.” 
R. Dimi of Nehardea holds the reverse. The one considers the 
loss involved; the other, the trouble with which it is accom- 
panied. 

The rabbis taught: Grinding is permitted on the middle days 
for use on those days only, but not otherwise; but if some of the 
flour remain. till after the festival, it may be used. Such is also 


22 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


the case with wood-cutting and beer-brewing, but one must not 
go too far. R. Hananel said in the name of Rabh: “One may 
fell a tree, even if he needs only the splinters.” Abayi, however, 
censured that. R. Ashi owned a forest in the neighborhood of 
Shalnayi, and he went there once during the middle days to chop 
wood. Said R. Shela of Shalnayi to R. Ashi: “You do this, 
relying on the statement of R. Hananel in the name of Rabh? 
But has not Abayi censured it?” Andhe replied: “I do not 
care for that.” When he commenced to chop, his axe slipped 
off the handle and almost injured his shoulder. He thereupon 
left the forest (for he took it asa punishment for his statement 
in reference to Abayi). R. Jehudah permitted to pluck. flax, 
hops, and poppy. Said Abayi to R. Joseph: “This would be 
correct as regards flax and hops, for the one. may be used for 
covering (figs, etc.), and the other in beer-brewing ; but what use 
can be made of poppy? Its ‘seed can be used. R. Janai owned 
an orchard the fruit of which got ripe on the middle days, and he 
gathered in the fruit ; on the following year every one postponed 
the gathering in of his fruit until the middle days. R. Janai (as 
a punishment to himself for having caused: others to. postpone 
their work until the middle days) gave away on the very same 
year that orchard to the free use of the public. 

MISHNA: One may house his’ fruit from (dread of) thieves, 
and take flax out of the buck, that it be not spoiled, provided 
he does not intentionally defer doing it till the middle days; but 
should he have so deferred, then in all these cases he forfeits the 
articles in question. 

- GEMARA: A Boraitha’ states: :« Provided he does. it pri- 
vately.”” R. Joseph had removed beams to ‘his house in the day- 
time. Said Abayi to him: “Have we not learned that it should 
be done privately?” He answered: “In this case it-may be 
considered more privately in the day-time than in the night-time; 
for in the night-time it must be done by light, and it requires 
therefore more men.” 

“And take the flax out of the buck,” etc. “Rs Jeremiah pro- 
pounded the question to R. Zera: “One who deferred intention- 
ally doing it until the middle days and soon afterwards died, shall 
we impose the fine on his sons?» Shall we assume that the rabbis 
intended to punish him personally, and, therefore, his sons are 
released? or shall we assume ‘that’ the fine was directed against 
his property, and, therefore, his sons must’ pay it?”.And he 
answered: “This we have learned:in. the-following Mishna: A 


aa e 





TRACT MOED KATAN (MINOR FESTIVALS). 23 


field which has been cleaned from prickles during the Sabbatical 
year may be sown immediately thereafter; but this is not the 
case if it was manured either by man’s labor or by animals.” Said 
R. Jose bar Hanina: “There is a tradition that if one had 
manured his field (on the Sabbatical year) and soon afterwards 
died, his son might sow it.” Hence we see that the fine was 
directed against him, and not against his son. The same is the 
case with working on the middle days, stated above. 

MISHNA: One must not purchase houses, slaves, or cattle, 
excepting for the use of the whole festival, or for the use of the 
vendor, who otherwise might have nothing to eat. 

GEMARA: Rabha:asked R. Na’>hman: ‘ What is the law if 
a laborer has nothing to eat?” And he answered him: “ This 
we have learned in our own Mishna, ‘or for the use of the ven- 
dor,’ which intends to include the case of the laborer.” .(For the 
case of the vendor is included in the statement, “for the use of 
the whole festival,” which includes the middle days.) \..Rejoined 
Rabha: Perhaps the Mishna explains only what-is meant by the 
expression “ use of the vendor.” 

MISHNA: One must not remove things from. one: house to 
another, but this may be done from the house of another court 
to his court. Things must not be brought home from the me- 
chanic’s house, but if he fears (that they might be lost)-he may 
remove them to another court. 

GEMARA: Did not the Mishna begin with the statement 
that it must not be removed at all? Said Abayi: The last 
clause of the Mishna means to say, that it may be removed from 
the court-house to the court (but not to another house). 

MISHNA: Dried figs may be covered with straw. R. Jehu- 
dah says: “They may, likewise, be put in layers, Dealers in 
fruit, garments, or utensils may privately sell what is required 
for use on the middle days. Huntsmen (fishers) and manufac- 
turers of peeled barley and grits may carry on their occupations 
in private, as the exigencies of the festival may require it.” R. 
Jose said: “ They have of their own accord adopted the more 
rigorous observance and do not carry on their occupations (on 
the middle days).” 

GEMARA: R. Hyya bar Abba and R. Assi, both in the name 
of Hezekiah and R. Johanan, differ. One holds that “covering,” 
mentioned in the Mishna, means “ thinly covering,” and “ put in 
layers” means “ thickly covering ”; and the other one holds that 
“ covering " means both thinly and thickly covering, and “ put in 


24 - THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


layers”. means “heaping up.” So also we have learned in a 
Boraitha: “ Putting in layers—placing in a heap. Such is the 
dictum of R. Jehudah.” 

“ The dealers in fruit,’ etc. The schoolmen propounded a 
question: ‘* Does it mean that they adopted a rigorous, etc., not 
to do any work at all, or only not in public?” Come and hear: 
The dealers in fruit, garments, and utensils may sell in private, 
for use on the middle days. R. Jose said: “The dealers of 
Tiberias adopted of their own accord a more rigorous observance 
and did not sell at all.” (The Boraitha states further on that R. 
Jose said that the same was the case with the hunters and fishers 
of Achu and the manufacturers of grits of Sepphoris.) Abayi 
said: “It is called grits, if it (the kernel) is crushed into two; 
pearl grits, if into three; and meal, if crushed into four parts.” 
When R. Dimi came he said: “ It (grits) means spelt.” R.Huna 
permitted the dealers in spices to trade in their usual way. R. 
Kahana objected: We have learned elsewhere: A store opening 
into a gallery may be locked and unlocked in the usual way, but 
if it opens into a public street he must open one door and lock 
the other; and on the eve of the last day of Tabernacles one may 
decorate his stores with fruit in honor of the last day of the fes- 
tival... But not otherwise? This presents no difficulty : the one 
is the case regarding fruit; the other, regarding spices (which 
may be done in the usual way). uf 





CHAPTER III. 


REGULATIONS REGARDING MOURNING ON FESTIVALS, REGARDING 
THOSE WHO ARE UNDER THE BAN, AND WASHING. 


MISHNA: The following may shave (trim their hair) on the 
middle days: One who arrives from the sea countries, or returns 
from captivity, or has been discharged from prison; or one who 
was absolved by the sages from the ban, or from his vow (not to 
cut his hair for a certain period of time); also a Nazarite and the 
leper who is restored to cleanness. The following may wash 
their garments on the middle days: One who arrives from the 
sea countries, or returns from captivity, or has been discharged 
from prison; and one whom the sages have absolved from the 
ban, or from his vow. Towels, barbers’ napkins, and bathing 
towels (may be washed). Men and women who have had a run- 
ning issue, women after their courses or lying-in, and all persons 
who from uncleanness are restored to cleanness, are permitted to 
wash their garments; but all other persons are forbidden. 

GEMARA: What is the reason for not permitting other per- 
sons? As we have learned in the following Mishna (Taanith) : 
“ The priests of the weekly watch and the standing Israelites are 
prohibited from shaving their beards and washing their clothes ; 
but on Thursday they are allowed to do so in honor of the 
Sabbath.” And Rabba bar bar Hana in the name of R. Elazar 
said: “ The reason why they are prohibited to do so the whole 
week is in order that they shall not enter upon the fulfilment of 
their duties when they are filthy (if they would be allowed to do 
so during the days of their duty).”” The same reason applies to 
the festival (if they will be allowed to do so in the middle days 
they will not shave themselves before the festival). 

“ Who arrive from the sea countries.” Our Mishna is not in 
accordance with R. Jehudah of the following Boraitha: R. 
Jehudah said: “One who returns from the sea countries may 
not shave, for he went to sea of his own accord.” Said Rabha: 
“If he went to sea for adventurous purposes, all agree that he 
may not; if to earn his bread, all agree that he may. They only 


26 "THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


differ in case he went to sea to accumulate profits (z.¢., one who 
was well provided with an income, but went to sea to increase his 
riches). One equals it to the case of adventurous purpose; and 
the other, to that for the purpose of earning his bread. Samuel 
said: “A minor (child) may be shaved on the middle days, and 
it makes no difference whether he was born on or before the 
middle days.” Said-R. Pin’has: “We also have a Mishna to the 
same effect;: All.those who were permitted to shave on the middle 
days may also do so during their mourning.” From this we must 
assume that those prohibited to shave on the middle days are 
also prohibited from doing so during their mourning? Now, if a 
minor would be prohibited, then mourning would be customary 
to a minor also, but the following Boraitha states: “The garments 
of a minor mourner are rent for the purpose of moving others to 
mourn?” Hence we see that toa minor himself mourning is not 
customary? Said R. Ashi: Does, then, the Mishna state “ those 
who are prohibited”? (It only states “those who are allowed ”’) 
and possibly some are prohibited who are not mentioned in the 
Mishna. EER 

A-mourner must not observe mourning on festivals, for it is 
written [Deut. xvi. 14]: “And thou shalt rejoice on thy feast.” 
Then, if the mourning commences before the festival the positive 
commandment of the rejoicing of the feast which relates to the 
whole public is relieving from the positive commandment of 
mourning. of an individual; and in case it began on the festival, 
the commandment of mourning to an individual cannot relieve 
from the commandment (of rejoicing) to the public. . What is the 
law of one who is under the ban as regards the festival? Said 
R. Joseph: Come and hear: “Cases involving capital. punish- 
ment or stripes, or civil. cases, may be tried (on the middle days), 
and if one (of the parties) is in contempt he may be put under the 
ban:” . Now then, if you should think that if one who was a/ready 
under the ban the-festival comes and postpones it, how could we 
put one under the ban originally on the festival? .Said Abayi 
to him: “ Perhaps the Boraitha meant, by ‘tried,’ the examina- 
tion only (but not the result)?” Therefore said Abayi: This 
can be decided from our Mishna, which states: “One whom the 
sages absolved from the ban.” And if the festival would post- 
pone it, why then the absolving by the sages? 

Said Rabha: Does, then, the Mishna state: The sages have 
absolved the ban? ‘It: states: “Who was absolved by the sages 
from the ban,” which means that he has previously arrived at an 


TRACT MOED KATAN (MINOR FESTIVALS). 27 


understanding with his opponent. and then come to ask the rab- 
bis that they should absolve him. (Hence the question remains 
undecided.) — 

Is the law of leprosy customary on the festival? Said Rabha: 
Come and hear: It is written [Lev. xiii. 45]: ‘“‘ And the leper.” 
That means to include even if it was the high-priest. Now, it is 
certain that as to the high-priest all the week-days are considered 
‘ feast-days, as we have learned in a Mishna (Sebo’him): “ The 
high-priest may sacrifice in his mourning before the interment of. 
the corpse, but not to eat of it.”  Infer from this that the law of 
leprosy is customary on festivals. * 

Rabha said: Whence do we know that the court has power 
to summon one to appear before them; to appoint a time for the 
trial before the chief of the court; and to fix atime for the 
appearance of both parties? It is written [Num. xvi. 12-16]: 
“ And Moses sent to call Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab,” 
etc. “And Moses said unto Korah, thou and thy company be 
ye before the Lord,” etc. ‘“ Thou and they and Aaron to-mor- 
row.” And whence do we know that the court has power to 
postpone the trial to another day? It is written [Jerem. xlvi. 17]: 
“ They called out there,” etc., “he hath let the time appointed 
pass by.” And whence do we know that the report of the court 
messenger, that the summons is disobeyed, is not considered 
slander? From the report of the messengers fo Moses [Num. xvi. 
14]. And whence do we know that a great man has the power 
to put one under the ban? From [Judges, v. 23]: “Curse ye 
Meroz, said the messenger of the Lord.’”’ [It means that he was 
a great man.] And whence do we know that the court has power 
to excommunicate him and to prohibit to eat or drink in his com- 
pany, or to stand near him within a distance of four ells? From 
the passage [ibid., ibid.]: “Curse ye bitterly, curse its inhabi- 
tants.” And whence,'that his disobedience is made public? 
From [ibid., ibid.]: “ Because they came not to the help of the 
Lord.” | And whence, that his property may be confiscated 
(made ownerless)? From [Ezra, x. 8]: “And that whosoever 
should not come within three days,” etce., “all his ‘substance 
should be forfeited + and himself separated from the congrega- 





* All the laws of mourning not belonging to festivals we transfer to Tract Ebel 
Rabbathi (Great Mourning) as the proper place, and they will be published in the 
next volume, which will complete this section. 

+ Leeser translates ‘* devoted.” 


28 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


tion of the exiles.”” Whence, that he may be cursed, beaten, 
his hair plucked, and made to swear? From [Nehem. xiii. 25]: 
“ And I contended with them, and cursed them, and smote cer- 
tain of them, and plucked out their hair, and made them swear,” 
etc. Whence, that his hands and feet may be bound, and he may 
be tied to the whipping post, and prosecuted? From [Ezra, vii. 
26]: ‘ Whether it be unto death, or to banishment, or to a fine 
on goods, or to imprisonment.’”” What is meant by “banish- ~ 
ment”? Said Ada Mari in the name of Ne’hemiah bar Baruch 
in the name of R. Hyya bar Abin, quoting R. Jehudah: “It 
means, prosecution.” What kind of prosecution? Said R. 
Jehudah, son of R. Samuel bar Shilath, in the name of Rabh: 
“It means that he is put under the ban at once, and if he does 
not repent within thirty days the ban is continued; and if he still 
continues to be disobedient, he is excommunicated after the 
lapse of sixty days.” Said R. Huna bar Hinna to him: “But 
has not R. Hisda stated: He is first warned on a Monday, 
Thursday, and the following Monday”? This relates only to 
cases involving money; but if he is accused of having denounced 
the authorities, he is at once put underthe ban. A certain butcher 
was disobedient to R. Tubi bar Mathna, and he was put under 
the ban by the concurrence of Abayi and Rabha. Subsequently 
he came toan understanding with his opponent. Said Abayi: 
“What shall be done in such a case? Shall we absolve him? 
Thirty days have not passed yet? Shall we not? The rabbis 
need him?” And he turned to R. Idi bar Abin and asked him: 
“Do you know anything about such a case?” And the latter 
answered him: “R. Ta’hlipha bar Abimi said in the name of 
Samuel: ‘The horn that announced that he was placed under the 
ban, may announce that he was absolved.’”” And Abayi re- 
joined: “ This is only in cases involving money; but in the case 
of denouncing the authorities, the ban must continue for thirty 
days.” Ameimar said: “ The Halakha prevails, that if scholars 
declare the ban over a person, he may be absolved therefrom by 
three other scholars.” Said R. Ashi to Ameimar: Have we 
not learned in a Boraitha: R. Simeon b. Gamaliel said: If one of 
the scholars who declared the ban over a person died, his part 
cannot be absolved from? Shall we not assume that it cannot be 
absolved from at all? Nay; that means, only until other three 
absolve him. — aN | # . 
-’ The rabbis taught: The ban is declared for not less than 
thirty days; rebuke, however, is only for seven days; and al- 


TRACT MOED KATAN (MINOR FESTIVALS). 29 


though there is no explicit proof for that, there is a hint ‘[Num. 
xii. 14]: “If her father had spit in her face, would she not 
be ashamed seven days?” R. Hisda said: “ Our (Babylonian) 
ban equals in point of time their (Palestinian) rebuke; and their 
rebuke is only for seven days.” Isthatso? Has it not happened 
that R. Simeon bar Rabbi and Bar Qappara have been studying 
together, and they came across a difficult question? Said R. 
Simeon to Bar Qappara: ‘This question must be solved by 
Rabbi (my father).”. And Bar Qappara answered him: “ What 
could Rabbi say to this?” * R. Simeon reported this statement 
to his father, and he became angry. Subsequently Bar Qappara 
came to visit him, and Rabbi said to him: “ Bar Qappara, I have 
never known thee.” Bar Qappara understood this reproach, and 
he reprimanded himself for thirty days? It also happened: that 
Rabbi ordered not to teach disciples in the public streets. R. 
Hyya disregarded the order, and did teach his two nephews, 
Rabh and Rabba bar bar Hana, in a:public street. When Rabbi 
heard of it, he was angry. Subsequently R. Hyya came to visit 
him, and Rabbi said to him: “ Eyya, you are wanted in the 
street.”’ R. Hyya understood what was hinted at, and he repri- — 
manded himself for thirty days. 

[On the thirtieth day Rabbi sent a message to him to come; 
and a short while after he sent him another message not to come. 
Subsequently R. Hyya came. Said Rabbi to him: “ Why didst 
thou come?” He answered: “ Because the Master sent for me 
to come.” Said Rabbi: “ But did I:not subsequently send thee 
not tocome?” And he replied: “The first message I. received, 
the second one I did not.” And Rabbi applied to him the follow- 
ing passage [Proverbs, xvi. 7}: “ When the Lord receiveth: in 
favor a man’s ways, he maketh even his enemies to be at peace 
with him.”] Hence we see from this that the rebuke of the Pales- 
tinians is for thirty days? The rebuke of a prince is different. 

For how long, however, is our rebuke? For one day only, as 
seen from the following: Samuel and Mar Ugba, studying to- 
gether, the latter used to sit (out: of respect to Samuel) four ells 
distant from the former; but when sitting as'a court, the reverse 
used to be the case, and Mar Ugba used ‘to’ sit ona low. platform 
(near the candelabrum +) in order that his voice might. be heard 





* Rashi explains this to mean: ‘ There i is no ; dedlates wito could answer this.” 
But our explanation seems to us more pee. 
+ For Mar Ugba was an Exilarch. . (outer ss tena na 


30 te ' THE .BABYLONIAN ‘TALMUD. 


well.” Mar. Uqba was in the habit of accompanying Samuel every 


day tovhis residence.:: One day he was so-engrossed in a case that 


he forgot:.to do. it, and the latter, instead, followed zm to his 
house. » When they: reached the house; Samuel said to him: “Is 
this sufficient for thee?) May I now return?” And Mar Ugqba 
understood that Samuel was angry, and he reprimanded himself 
for one day. There was a woman who was sitting in a pathway, 
and was in the habit of stretching out her foot to pick up the 
barley. A young scholar: happened to pass by and she paid no 
attention to him; and. he remarked: “ How insolent this woman 
is!”’. The woman came before R. Na’hman and he asked her: 
“ Did he utter the ban?’’. And she answered: “ Nay.” He then 
ordered her to be reprimanded for one day. Zutra bar Tubiah 
was once arranging biblical passages before R. Jehudah. ..When 
he came upon:the passage [II Sam. xxiii. 1]: ‘‘ And these are the 
last words. of David,’ he said to him: “ If these were the last, 
what were the first: words of David?” © R. Jehudah remained 
silent. But: when he (Mar: Zutra) repeated ‘the question, R. 
Jehudah said: “Art thou:of. the opinion that if one cannot ex- 
plain this he is no more a great man?”’ And Mar Zutra under- 
stood that R. Jehudah was angry, and .he reprimanded _ himself 
for one-day.’ How is this passage, however, to be explained? It 
plainly reads “the last”; then there. must be the first. words ? 
[Ibid. xxi. 1]: “And David spoke unto the Lord the words of 
this ‘song, on the day ‘that the Lord had delivered him out of the 
hand of all his enemies, and out of the hand of Saul.” This 
passage was expounded thus: The Holy One, blessed be He, said 
unto David: “ David, thou’ singest songs over the downfall of 
Saul;.if thou wert Saul and he were David, I-would annihilate 
many a David for his sake.” - And this is meant by [Psalms, vii. 
1]: “A Shiggayon:of David * which he:sang unto the Lord, con- 


cerning the affairs of Cush (the Ethiopian) the Benjamite.” - Was. 


then his name Cush? It was Saul, but as:an Ethiopian is dis- 
tinguished from others ‘by the color of :his skin, so was Saul: dis- 
tinguished from others by his: good deeds. Likewise: [Num. xii. 
1]: “ On account of: the Ethiopian woman which he had married.” 
Was then her name Ethiopian ?.. Was it then not Ziporah? . But 
it is to state, that-as‘an Ethiopian is distinguished by the color: of 
his skin, so was she distinguished by her kind deeds. Likewise 
[Jerem. xxxviii. 7]: “(Now when the slave of the king, the Ethio- 





* The root of Shiggayon is mw, meaning ‘‘ error,?: 





“ 


TRACT MOED KATAN (MINOR FESTIVALS). 31 


pian,” etc. Was then his name Ethiopian ? * Was it then not Zede- 
kiah? But as it is stated above. Likewise [Amos, ix. 7]: “Are 
ye not like the children of the Ethiopians, O children of Israel?” 
Was then their name Ethiopians? Was it then not “ Israel’’? 
But as the Ethiopians differ from others in the color of their 
skin, so does Israel differ from all idolaters by their good deeds. 

R. Tan’hum said in the name of R. Huna, and according to 
others R. Huna himself said it: A disciple who put one under 
the ban for disobedience to himself, the ban is valid, as we have 
learned in a Boraitha: ‘‘ One who is put under the ban by the 
Master is considered so also towards the disciple; but if put by 
a disciple, is not so towards the Master.’’ Hence towards the 
Master he is not so, but as towards the general public he is so. 
Now, then, let us see: To what case isthis applicable ? Shall 
we assume that it applies to Heavenly things? Is it not written 
[Psalms, xxi. 30]: ‘‘ There is no wisdom nor understanding nor 
counsel against the Lord’’ ? Hence it must be assumed, even for 
the disobedience to himself. R. Joseph said: ‘‘ Even a young 
scholar, if only he is certain that his demand against another is 
just, may render judgment in his own favor.’’ There was one 
young scholar concerning whom evil rumors were current. Said 
R. Jehudah: ‘* What shall be done in this case? Shall we put 
him under the ban? The rabbis need him. Shall we not? 
The name of Heaven will be profaned.’’ And he asked Rabba 
bar bar Hana: ‘‘ Do you know anything about such a case ?’’ 
He answered him: So said R. Johanan: ‘‘ It is written [Mal- 
achi, ii. 7]: ‘ The priest’s lips are ever to keep knowledge, and 
the law are they to seek from his mouth, for he is the mes- 
senger + of the Lord of hosts.’ That means: If the Master is 
equal to an angel, law may be sought from his mouth, but not 
otherwise.’’ Thereupon R. Jehudah put him under the ban. 
Subsequently, R. Jehudah was taken illand the rabbis made him 
a sick-call, among whom was also that young scholar. When 
R. Jehudah beheld him, he smiled. Said he to R. Jehudah: 
*‘ Is it not enough that you put me under the ban, that you still 
laugh at me?’’ R. Jehudah answered him: ‘‘I do not laugh 
at you, but in the world to come I will be proud to say that I 
was not biased even towards so great a man as you.”’ 





* The Talmud translates the meaning of the words literally, Hence our transla- 
tion. 
¢ The text reads ‘‘ Malach,” which means a messenger, and also an angel, 


32 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


When R. Jehudah died the young scholar came to the col- 
lege and asked to be absolved from the ban, and the rabbis 
answered him: ‘‘ There is not here a man equal in esteem to 
R. Jehudah to absolve you. Go to R. Jehudah the Second, 
and he may absolve you.”’ He went to him. Said the Nasi to 
R. Ami: ‘‘Go and examine his case, and if found favorable, 
absolve him.’’ R. Ami did so, and was about to absolve him 
when R. Samuel bar Na’hmeni arose and said: ‘‘ Even when 
the maid-servant of the house of Rabbi declared one under the 
ban the sages did respect it for three years, and so much the 
more we must respect Jehudah our colleague.’’ Said R. Zera: 
‘* How did it happen that this old man came to-day to college 
after an absence of several years? It is a token that the young 
scholar is not to be absolved.’’ He left weeping, and on the 
way he was stung bya bee and he died. He was brought to 
the vaults of the Pious, and was not accepted; he was then 
removed 'to those of the Judges, and was accepted. _Why so? 
For he acted as R. Ilai of the following Boraitha: ‘‘ If one can- 
not withstand the temptation, he shall go to a place where he is 
not known, and shall dress in black and wrap himself in black 
and do as he pleases, but shall not profane the name of Heaven 
openly.”’ 

What was the occurrence with the maid-servant of the house 
of Rabbi? The maid-servant of the house of Rabbi saw once 
one beating his grown-up son, and she said: ‘‘ Let that man be 
under the ban, for he has transgressed the commandment [Lev. 
xix. 14]: ‘ Thou shalt not put a stumbling-block before the 
blind.’’’ And the following Boraitha states that this passage 
relates to one who beats his grown-up son. Resh Lakish was 
watching an orchard, and there came a certain man and ate of 
the figs. _Resh Lakish shouted to him not to do it, but he paid 
no attention to him. Resh Lakish then said: ‘* Let this man 
be under the ban.’’ And the man answered him: ‘‘ On the 
contrary, let ¢ha¢ man be under the ban; for if I am responsible 
to thee in damages, am I then liable to be put under the ban ?”’ 
When Resh Lakish came to the college, he was told: ‘‘ His 
placing you under the ban is valid, but not yours.’’ ‘‘ How can 
it be corrected ?’’ ‘‘ Goand ask his pardon.’’ ‘* But I do not 
know where to find him ?’’ And he was told: ‘‘ You have to 
go to the Nasi in order to be absolved, as we have learned ina 
Boraitha: ‘ One who was put under the ban and he does not know 
the person, he must go to a Nasi in order to be absolved.’ ”’ 


TRACT MOED KATAN (MINOR FESTIVALS). 33 


R. Huna said: If was enacted in Osha that if the chief of 
the court should be delinquent, if for the first time he should 
not be put under the ban, but should only be told: ‘‘ Be digni- 
fied and stay at home.’’ But if for the second time, he should 
be put under the ban, lest the name of Heaven be profaned. 
This is not in accordance with the following statement of Resh 
Lakish: A scholar who is delinquent is not put under the ban 
publicly, for it is written [Hosea, ii. 5]: ‘‘ Therefore shalt thou 
stumble in the day-time, and the prophet also shall stumble 
with thee in the night,’’ which means: See that he is devoid of 
publicity, as the night is devoid of daylight. 

Mar Zutra the Pious, when a young scholar was delinquent 
and deserving to be reprimanded, first reprimanded Aimself and 
then the young scholar. When he entered his residence, he 
first absolved hzmse/f and then the young scholar. R. Giddel 
said in the name of Rabh: ‘‘ A scholar may first put himself 
under the ban (for a certain period of time) and afterward absolve 
himself therefrom.’’ Said R. Papa: ‘‘ I may be rewarded; for, 
as a matter of fact, I have never put a young scholar under the 
ban.’’ 

“And the Nazarite and the leper,’ etc. R. Jeremiah ques- 
tioned R. Zera: “ Does it mean in the case when they had no 
opportunity to do so before, or even when they had?” And he 
answered him: ‘“ We have learned this in the following Boraitha : 
All those who were said to be permitted to shave on the middle 
days, may do so only when they had no opportunity to do it 
before, but not otherwise. A Nazarite, however, may do so, 
although he had the opportunity to do so before, in order that 
his sacrifice be not delayed. 

The rabbis taught: “ All those who were said to be permitted 
to shave on the middle days, may also do so in their mourning.” 
But have we not learned in another Boraitha that they may not ? 
Said R. Hisda in the name of R. Shila: “The first Boraitha 
relates to a case where the mournings succeeded one another.” 
If this is the case, why only “ those who were said,” etc.? Why 
not every one? As we have learned in a Boraitha: ‘“ When one 
mourning succeeds the other, and so on for a long time, and his 
hair has become heavy, it may be made light by a razor, and he 
may wash his clothes in water?” Yea, but as to this, it was 
taught that R. Hisda said: The Boraitha means by a razor 
only, but not by scissors; in water, but not with Spanish chalk 
(which was used then instead of soap) or lye. Said R. Hisda: 

3 


34 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


“ From this it may be inferred that a mourner must not wash his 
clothes.” 

The rabbis taught: “As it is not allowed to shave on the 
middle days, so also is it not allowed to trim the nails. Such is 
the dictum of R. Jehudah. R. Jose, however, permits it.” And 
the same is the case in regard to mourning. Said Ula: “The 
Halakha prevails according to R. Jehudah in regard to mourning, 
and according to R. Jose in regard to the middle days.” Samuel, 
however, said: “ The Halakha prevails according to R. Jose in 
regard to both mourning and the middle days.” As Samuel said 
elsewhere: The Halakha prevails according to the one who is 
lenient, in regard to mourning. R. Shaman bar Aba said: I was 
present once on the middle days in the college of R. Johanan, 
and saw him trimming his nails with his teeth and throwing the 
parings away. And from the above occurrence three things 
were inferred: that the nails may be trimmed on the middle 
days; that there is no aversion to trimming them with the teeth; 
and that the parings may be thrown away.* R. Itz’hak bar Jacob 
bar Geurah in the name of R. Johanan sent the following mes- 
sage: “ Flaxen garments may be washed on the middle days.” 

MISHNA: The following documents may be written on the 
middle days: contracts of betrothing, bills of divorce, ‘and 
receipts in discharge of debts; also wills or codicils; deeds of 
gift; premonitions; and deeds of maintenance, certificates of 
Halitza, and certificates of refusal; arbitration bonds; decrees 
of the Beth Din; and powers of attorney. 

GEMARA: Samuel said: “‘ One is permitted to become 
betrothed to a woman on the middle days, for fear that he may 
be preceded by another one.’’ Rabh said in the name of R. 
Reuben b. Atztrubli: It appears from the Law, the Prophets, 
and the Hagiographa that the union of a woman to her husband 
comes from God himself. The Law [Gen. xxiv. 50]: ‘‘ Then © 
Laban and Bethuel answered and said: The thing hath pro- 
ceeded from the Lord,’’ etc.; the Prophets [Judges, xiv. 4]: 
‘* But his father and his mother knew not that it was from the 
Lord’’; the Hagiographa [Prov. xix. 14]: ‘‘ Houses and wealth 
are an inheritance from fathers; but from the Zovd cometh an 
intelligent wife.’’ + Rabh further said in the name of the same 
authority; and according to others this was learned in a Boraitha: 





* This subject will be explained in Tract Niddah. 
t See our ‘‘ Maamar Ha’ishuth,” Wien, 1887, p. 6. 


TRACT MOED KATAN (MINOR FESTIVALS). 35 


‘* R. Reuben b. Atztrubli said: ‘ No one is suspected of having 
done something (wrong), unless he has really done it; and if he 
has not done it all, he has done part of it; and if not even that 
much, he at least had in mind to do it; and if not even that 
much, he probably approved of it when it was done by others.’ ”’ 
An objection was made: Come and hear [Psalm cvi. 16]: 
** Moreover, they envied Moses in the camp and Aaron the 
holy one of the Lord.’’ And R. Samuel bar Itz’hak said: 
‘* From this it is inferred that every one suspected his own wife 
of having relations with Moses ?’’ (Hence we see that one may 
be suspected although there is no particle of foundation for it ?) 
In that case it was different, for it was done out of hatred. 
Another objection was made: Come and hear: R. Jose said: 
*“ May my share in the world to come be with those who were 
groundlessly suspected.’” And R. Papa said: ‘‘ I was once sus- 
pected without any ground whatever?’’ This presents no diffi- 
culty. The one is the case when the suspicion has ceased; the 
other is, when it has not. What is meant by not having ceased ? 
Said Abayi: ‘‘ My mother told me: ‘ A town rumor is for a day 
and a half.’’’ The case is only if it has not ceased at intervals, 
but if it has it does not matter; and if, however, it has ceased 
out of fear, it is not taken into consideration; and even if it was 
not out of fear, the case is when it was not circulated again 
more vigorously. All this, however, is the case when the person 
suspected has no enemies; but if he has, the latter circulated it. 

MISHNA: Bonds of debts must not be written on the mid- 
dle days; but if the lender does not otherwise want to trust the 
borrower, or the latter has nothing to eat, they may be written. 
Holy Scrolls, Phylacteries, or Mezuzoth must not be written on 
the middle days, and not a single letter may be corrrected— 
even in the Book of Ezra.* R. Jehudah, however, says : ‘‘ One 
may write Phylacteries and Mezuzoth for his own use, and he 
may also spin sky-blue wool for show-threads in his garment.”’ 

GEMARA: The rabbis taught: One may write Phylacteries 
and Mezuzoth for his own use and may spin sky-blue wool for 
show-threads in his garment; but for others he may do it as 
a favor only (without compensation). Such is the dictum of 





* It means the first Pentateuch which Ezra wrote. Rashi, however, says that he 
heard that it should not be read ‘‘ Ezra,” but ftp, which means the Temple ; as to his 
knowledge, there was a correct copy of the Holy Scrolls, from which all the others 
were corrected. 


36 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


R. Meir. R. Jehudah, however, said: ‘‘ One may connive and 
sell his own, and then write another one for his own use.’’ But 
R. Jose said: ‘‘ He may write and sell in the usual way as much 
as necessary for his living expenses.’’ Rabh, and according to 
others Rabba bar bar Hana, rendered his decision to R. Hana- 
nel: ‘‘ The Halakha prevails, that one may write and sell in the 
usual way as muchas necessary for his living expenses.”’ 

MISHNA: One who buried his dead three days before the 
commencement of the festival is freed from the observance of 
the seven (days of deep mourning); if eight days before the 
festival, he is freed from the observance of the thirty days; for 
the sages hold: ‘‘ The Sabbath enters into the computation, but 
does not supersede the mourning, whereas the festivals super- 
sede the mourning, but do not enter into the computation.”’ 
R. Elazar said: ‘‘ Since the destruction of the Temple, Pente- 
cost is to be considered (in respect to mourning) like the Sab- 
bath.’” R. Gamaliel said: “‘ The New Year and the Day of 
Atonement are to be considered like festivals; the sages, how- 
ever, say that it is neither as the one nor as the other, but hold 
that there is no distinction between the Pentecost and any other 
festival, but the New Year and the Day of Atonement are like 
the Sabbath.”’ 

GEMARA: Rabh said: ‘‘ Only the observance of the thirty 
days is dispensed with, but not the days themselves.’’ So also 
said R. Huna. R. Shesheth, however, said: ‘‘ Even the days 
are dispensed with.’’ In what case may it happen that the days 
shall still not be dispensed with? If (the observance of the 
thirty days being dispensed with) one had not shaved himself 
on the eve of the festival, he may not do so after the festival 
(during all the thirty days). We have so also learned in a 
Boraitha: One who buries his dead three days before the 
festival is freed from the observance of the seven days; if eight 
days, he is freed from the observance of the thirty days, and he 
may shave himself on the eve of the festival; if he, however, 
failed to do so on the eve of the festival, he must not do so 
after the festival. Abba Saul, however, said: ‘‘ He may do so, 
for as the observance of the three days frees from the observance 
of the seven days, so also does the observance of the seven days 
free from the observance of the thirty days.’’ Seven days? 
Have we not learned eight ?. Abba Saul is of the opinion that a 
portion of a day counts for a whole day, and the seventh day 
enters into the computation of both. Said R. Hisda in the 





TRACT MOED KATAN (MINOR FESTIVALS). 37 


name of Rabina bar Shila: ‘* The Halakha prevails according to 
Abba Saul, and even the sages concede to Abba Saul that in 
case the eighth day falls on a Sabbath which is incidentally the 
eve of a festival, he may shave on the eve of Sabbath.’’ Accord- 
ing to whom is the statement of R. Amram in the name of 
Rabh: ‘‘ A mourner, as soon as his condolers have left him, is 
permitted to wash himself’’? It is according to Abba Saul. 
Said Abayi: The Halakha prevails according to Abba Saul in 
regard. to the seventh day; and the sages concede, in regard to 
the thirtieth day, that a portion of a day counts for a whole 
day. Rabha said: The Halakha prevails according to Abba 
‘Saul regarding the thirtieth day, but not regarding the seventh 
day. But the sages of Nehardea maintained that the Halakha 
prevails according to Abba Saul in both cases, as Samuel said: 
** The Halakha prevails according to the one who is lenient 
in regard to mourning.’’ Abayi inquired of Rabba: ‘‘If one 
buried his. dead on the festival, does, or does not, the festival 
enter into the computation of the thirty days? Certain it is to 
me that it does not enter in regard to the seven days, for the 
observance of the seven is not customary on the festival; but 
my question is in regard to the thirty days, because the observ- 
ance of the thirty days zs customary on the festival ?’’ And he 
answered him: ‘‘ It does not enter.’” Abayi raised an objection 
based on the following Boraitha: The festival enters into the 
computation of the thirty days. How so? If the burial took 
place in the beginning of the festival, the observance of the 
seven days begins after the festival, and his work may be done 
by others, and his male and female servants may do their work 
privately, and the public need not condole with him during the 
seven days, for they have already done so on the festival; and 
the festival enters into the computation of the thirty days? 
This objection remains unanswered. When Rabbin came from 
Palestine he said in the name of R. Johanan: ‘‘ Even if he was 
buried on the festival’’ (the festival enters into computation). 
So also has R. Elazar decided to his son R. Padath. 

The rabbis taught: If one has observed the lowering of the 
couch for three days prior to the festival, he need not observe it 
any more after the festival. Such is the dictum of.R. Eliezer. 
The sages, however, hold: ‘‘ Even one day, and even one hour.’’ 
Said R. Elazar b. R. Simeon: These are, respectively, the de- 
crees of the school of Shammai and the school of Hillel. For 
the school of Shammai decrees: ‘‘ Three days’’; and the school 


38 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


of Hillel decrees: ‘‘ Even one day.’’ Said R. Huna in the 
name of R. Hyya bar Abba, quoting R. Johanan, and according 
to others R. Johanan said to R. Hyya bar Abba and R. Huna: 
‘*Even one day, and even one hour.’’ Rabha said: ‘‘ The 
Halakha prevails according to our Tana (of the Boraitha), who 
holds three days.”’ 

Rabina happened to be in Sura of Euphrates. Said R. 
Habibha to him: ‘‘ What is the Halakha?’’ And he answered 
him: ‘‘ Even one day, and even one hour.’’ R. Jose bar 
Abin said: ‘‘ One who receives information which is recent on 
the festival, but becomes remote after the festival, the latter 
counts, and mourning is observed only one day.’’ Rabbi 
Ada of Kisri taught before R. Johanan: ‘‘One who receives 
information which is recent on the Sabbath but becomes re- 
mote thereafter, must mourn one day only.’’ Must he rend 
(his garments) or not? R. Mani said: ‘‘ He may not.’”’ R. 
Hanina, however, said: ‘‘ He may.’’ Said R. Mani to R. 
Hanina: ‘‘ As to my statement, it is correct, because rending 
is customary only together with the observance of the seven 
days; but as to your statement, is then there a case in which 
one must rend although there is no mourning of the seven 
days?’’ Is there not such a case? But has not R. Isi the 
father of R. Zera, and according to others the brother of R. 
Zera, taught before R. Zera:.*‘ One who has no garment to rend 
and he becomes a mourner, if within the seven days, he must 
rend; if after the seven days, he may not’’? And R. Zera 
rejoined: ‘*‘ This is the case only in the five cases of relatives 
whom one is bound to bury, but over his father and mother he 
must rend notwithstanding (the lapse of the seven days ?). In 
this case it is only out of respect to his father and mother.’’ 

** Because the sages held that Sabbath enters into computation,”’ 
etc. The inhabitants of Judea and the inhabitants of Galilea: 
Those hold that the law of mourning applies on Sabbath (to 
things done privately), because the Mishna states: ‘‘ It enters 
into computation’’; and these hold that it does not apply, 
because the Mishna states: ‘‘ But it does not supersede.’’ 

But does not the Mishna state that it enters into computa- 
tion? It is only because it has to state in the latter part, that 
it does not enter, he uses also in the first past ‘‘enter.’’ But 
did not the Mishna state plainly “‘ it does not supersede’’ ? This 
is for the same reason, as it has to state in the latter part ‘‘it 
does supersede’’ it uses the same term in the first part also, 


TRACT MOED KATAN (MINOR FESTIVALS). 39 


Raphram bar Papa said: ‘‘ We have learned in Tract ‘ Great 
Mourning’: ‘A mourner is prohibited to have sexual inter- 
course during his mourning. It happened once that one did 
have sexual intercourse with his wife during his mourning, 
and his corpse was dragged about by hogs.’’’ Samuel said: 
““To remove the wrapping from the head, the rent from the 
front to the back, and to put the couch in proper condition (on 
the Sabbath) is obligatory; but to wear shoes, to have sexual 
intercourse, and to bathe the hands and feet in warm water on 
Friday evening is optional.’’ Rabh, however, said that even 
removing the wrapping is also only optional. 

Abayi found R. Joseph during his mourning walking around 
in the house with his mantle wrapped around his head (on the 
Sabbath), and he said to him: ‘‘ Does not the Master hold that 
mourning is not ctstomary on the Sabbath ?’’ And he answered 
him: ‘* So said R. Johanan: ‘ Things of a private nature are per- 
mitted.’ ”’ 

““ R. Elazar said: Since the destruction of the Temple,’ etc. 
R. Giddel bar Menasiah said in the name of Samuel: ‘‘ The 
Halakha prevails according to Rabban Gamaliel (Berachoth), 
who said that a mourner on the Sabbath is bound to observe all 
the commandments.”’ 

R. Anni bar Shashan lectured in front of the house of the 
Nasi: “‘ If (the mourning is) observed one day before Pentecost 
and on Pentecost, it is considered to have been observed four- 
teen days.’’ (For Pentecost counts for seven days, and so also 
does the day preceding it, as stated above.) When R. Ami 
heard of this he was angry, and said: ‘‘ Is this then his own ? 
This was stated long ago by R. Elazar in the name of R. 
Oshiya.’’ The same thing was stated in a lecture by R. Itz’hak 
of Naph’ha in Babylon at the cottage of the Exilarch, and R. 
Shesheth became angry because R. Elazar in the name of R. 
Oshiya, the author of this statement (Hagiga, 40), was not 
mentioned. R. Papa, accompanying R. Avia the elder, lec- 
tured: ‘‘ One day (of observance of mourning) before the New 
Year and the day of New Year count for fourteen days.’’ Said 
Rabina: ‘‘ Therefore, one day before the Tabernacles, the 
Tabernacles, and the eighth day (which counts for a separate fes- 
tival) count (regarding mourning) twenty-one days.’’ Rabina 
happened to be in Sura of Euphrates. Said R. Habibha of 
same place to him: ‘‘ Do you, Master, hold: ‘ If observed one 
day before the New Year and on the New Year it counts four- 


40 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


teen days’?”’. And he answered him: ‘‘I have only stated 
that it seems to me that the Halakha prevails according to R. 
Gamailiel.”’ 

MISHNA: The garments are not rent, nor the shoulders 
laid bare, nor the funeral meal eaten (on the middle days), 
unless by the near relatives of the deceased. The funeral meal 
is not to be taken except on a couch standing up properly. 

GEMARA: Does this apply to a scholar also? Have we 
not learned in a Boraitha: ‘‘ When a scholar dies, all must rend 
their garments, bare their shoulders, and partake of the funeral 
meal served in the public thoroughfare, for all are considered as 
his relatives’’ ? Nay, this Mishna refers to one who is nota 
scholar, but an upright man over whom also rending is obliga- 
tory, as we have learned in the following Boraitha: ‘*‘ Why do 
little children die? Because their parents failed to weep (mourn) 
over the death of an upright man; to one who does so, all his 
sins are forgiven, for the honor he has done to the deceased.”’ 
In the case of the death of an ordinary person, however, rend- 
ing is obligatory only on the one who is present at the time of 
the death, as we have learned in the following Boraitha: ‘“‘ R. 
Simeon b. Elazar said: ‘One who is present at the time when 
the death occurs is bound to rend his garments, for it is similar 
to the case of one who is present at the time the Holy Scrolls 
are burned, in which case he is bound to rend his garments.’ ”’ 
When R. Saphra’s soul passed unto rest, the rabbis intended 
not to rend their garments, for they said: ‘‘ We received no 
teachings from him.’’ Said Abayi to them: ‘‘ Does, then, the 
Boraitha treat of arabbi? It treats of a scholar, and still more 
so in the present case, when his Halakhas are always on our lips 
in the college?’’ Still they were inclined not to rend, for they 
said: ‘‘ The time for doing so has already passed.’’ Said Abayi 
to them: “‘ We have learned: In the case of a scholar, so long 
as the funeral orations are still going on, one is bound to rend.’’ 
They then wanted to rend at once (without holding funeral ora- 
tions). Said Abayi to them: “‘ There is a Boraitha that states 
that the honor paid to the remains of a scholar lies in the funeral 
oration.’” When R. Huna departed, it was intended to place 
the Holy Scrolls on his bier. Said R. Hisda to them: “‘ Shall 
we now act against his will? Has not R. Ta’hlipha said: ‘I 
was once present when R. Huna wanted to sit down on a cot on 
which the Holy Scrolls were lying, and he first removed the 
latter and then sat down’? Hence we see that he was of the 


“MS 2 eee 


TRACT MOED KATAN (MINOR FESTIVALS). 41 


opinion that one must not sit on a cot on which the Holy Scrolls 
are placed ?’” When the cot was to be removed from the 
house, it was found out that it could not pass through the door; 
and it was about to be removed through the roof opening, when 
R. Hisda remarked: ‘‘ We have a tradition from him that the 
honor to a deceased scholar demands that he be removed 
through the door opening.’’ They then wanted to place him 
on a cot of smaller dimensions, but R. Hisda again remarked: 
*“ We have a tradition from him that the respect to a deceased 
scholar demands that he be removed in the cot he died on.”’ 
Then they broke away the door-posts, and passed him out. Then 
R. Abba began the following eulogy: ‘‘ Our rabbi was worthy 
that the Shekhina should rest upon him, but Babylon prevented 
it.’” When his corpse arrived in Palestine, R. Ami and R. Assi 
were informed that ‘*R. Huna had arrived.’’ And they said 
(under the impression that he was alive): ‘‘ When we were in 
Babylon we could not raise our heads on account of him (for his 
great learning), and now he has followed us here.’” And they 
were then told: “‘ His cofiz has arrived.”’ R. Ami and R. Assi 
went out (to pay their respects). R. Aila and R. Hanina re- 
mainedinthe house. Others, however, said that only R. Hanina 
remained. What was the reason of those who went out? The 
following Boraitha: *‘ When a coffin is being removed from one 
place to another, those present must stand in a row and must pro- 
nounce the mourning benediction and the words of consolation.’’ 
The reason, however, of those who did not go out is the follow- 
ing Boraitha: ‘* When a coffin is being removed from one place 
to another, those present need not stand in arow,’’ etc. But do 
not these Boraithas contradict each other? Nay, the one relates 
to a case where the skeleton is still in good condition; the other 
where it is not. But R. Huna’s skeleton was still in good con- 
dition? They were not aware of that. They then began to 
deliberate where to place his remains, and concluded to place 
them alongside of those of R. Hyya. For they said: ‘‘ R. Huna 
diffused the Torah among Israel as much as did R. Hyya.’’ 
The question then came up as to who should do the placing. 
Said R. Haga to them: “‘ J will do it, for I was his disciple since 
the age of eighteen. I never had a wet-dream, and I have 
served him since then and knew his ways: once it happened that 
one of his phylactery fillets turned over, and he fasted forty 
days.’’ When R. Haga brought in the coffin into the arch, he 
noticed that Jehudah was sleeping at the right of his father and 


42 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Hezekiah at his left. He heard Jehudah say to his brother: 
““ Rise, for it would not be correct not to pay respect to 
R. Huna.’’ When he arose, a pillar of fire arose with him. 
R. Haga became frightened and, lifting up the coffin of R. 
Huna, left the arch. 

When R. Hisda died they wanted to place the Holy Scrolls 
onhis bier. Said R. Itz’hak: “‘ A thing which was not approved 
by his Master (R. Huna), we must not doto him.’’ They also 
intended to leave their rent garments unmended, when R. 
Itz’hak bar Ami said to them: ‘‘ In case of a scholar, the rent 
may be sewed together as soon as those who follow the coffin 
turn away their faces from the latter.”’ When Rabba bar Huna 
and R. Hamnuna had died in Babylon, their bodies were brought 
on camels to Palestine. Arrived at a narrow bridge, where the 
two camels could not pass at once, both remained standing. 
An Ishmaelitish merchant present, surprised at the interruption 
of the journey, asked for the reason, and was told that each of 
the deceased wished to give the other the preference of the way. 
““ If I were to give my view of the matter,’’ the Arab said, “‘ I 
should decide in favor of Rabba bar Huna (as he was known to 
me as a venerable man).’’ The Arab had hardly concluded his 
remarks, when the camel bearing Rabba passed the bridge. 
(As a punishment for not paying proper respect to R. Ham- 
nuna), the molars and front teeth of the Arab fell out. A 
disciple declaimed the following elegy: 


A learned scion of an ancient race 

Upward to Sacred Palestina draws, 

And bears into illimitable space 

The code of battles, the great book of laws. 
The cormorant and the hedgehog nightly gloat 
Upon destruction spreading far and wide ; 

For God His wrath upon the earth has hurled, 
Our pious sage His voice has called away ; 
And God is glad that from this sinful world 
His dearest servant has come home to stay.* 


When Rabina died, the funeral orator held the following 
oration: 
Bend, ye majestic palms, in grief sincere 
O’er one who like a palm had flourished here ; 
Nor cease your mourning when the moon’s soft ray 
Changes to shadowy night the brilliant day. 





* From ‘‘The Poetry of the Talmud,” by Sekels, with metrical corrections, as 
also the verses following. 


BX 
- 


TRACT MOED KATAN (MINOR FESTIVALS). 43 


For moon’s broad glare had oft to midnight waned 
Ere slumber o’er his studious eyelids reigned. 


R. Ashi said to Bar Kipuk (the funeral orator): “ What ora- 
tion will you make on ¢hat day (of my death)?” And he 
answered him: “ The following: 


How can the lowly hyssop still survive, 

When with devouring flames the cedars strive ? 
With huge Leviathan the angler’s prey, 

What have the fishes of the pond to say ? 

If the dry torrents shame the fisher’s hook, 
How fares it with the waters of the brook ?” 


Said Bar Abhin to him: “ Heaven forbid that ‘net’ and 
‘flame’ be used in orations over the righteous.’”’ ‘ What, then, 
would you say?” “I would say: ‘ Weep forthe losers but not for 
the lost (deceased), for e passed into rest but we into grief.’”’ 
R. Ashi felt discouraged (for one orator used the words “ net” 
and “ flame,” and the other the word “lost’’), and their (of the 
orators) feet upturned. When he died, neither of the orators 
came to hold orations. And this was meant by R. Ashi when 
he said: * Neither Bar Kipuk nor Bar Abhin would be bound to 
perform the ceremony of Halitza.” (Vide Yebamoth, 103a, where 
it is stated that those who have deformed feet are not bound to 
perform Halitza.) 

When Rabha came to Hiddekel, he said to Bar Abhin: “ Pro- 
nounce an (appropriate) prayer,” and the latter began: “The 
major part of Israel went through water; remember, and have 
mercy. We went astray from Thee as a woman goeth astray 
from her husband; do not cast us off, for it may have the same 
indication as that of the bitter-water.” [Vide Num. v. 11-28.] 

R. Hanin, the son-in-law of the Nasi, had been for a long time 
childless; he prayed and was answered. On the day of the birth 
of the child he died. The funeral orator on this occasion de- 
claimed the following elegy : 


Parental joy was changed to hopeless pain : 

Where bliss had entered, grief was doomed to reign ; 
For in the moment of his hope fulfilled, 

The joyful beating of that heart was stilled. 


The child was named Hanin after his father. When R. Johanan 
died, R. Itz’hak b. Elazar began the eulogy as follows: “This 
day is as momentous to Israel as the day of which the prophet 


44 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. >: «> 


spoke [Amos, viii. 9]: ‘And it shall come to pass in that day 
that I will cause the sun to go down at noon,’” which R. Johanan 
explained to have reference to the day of the death of the King 
Josiah. When R. Johanan departed, R. Ami observed both 
the seven and the thirty days (of mourning). Said R. Abba the 
son of R. Hyya bar Abba: “ R. Ami stands alone in his action, 
for so said my father in the name of R. Johanan: ‘ Even over an 
instructor in science one need not mourn more than one day.’” 
When R. Zera departed, the funeral orator delivered the follow- 
ing oration: 


In Babylon this noble sage was born, 

In Palestine he was admired and cherished ; 
‘Woe unto me!” doth Reketh * sadly mourn, 
“For my most precious jewel now has perished.” 


When R. Abuhu died, the pillars of Kisri shed tears; when R. 
Jose died, the gutters of Sepphoris were overrun with blood; 
when R. Jacob died, the stars were seen in the day-time; when 
R. Assi, all the trees were rooted out; when R. Hyya, fire-balls 
fell from heaven; when R. Mena’ham (ben R. Simai), all the 
images became obliterated and as smooth as if passed upon with 
a roller; when R. Tan’hum bar Hyya died, all the impressions 
upon the images were effaced; when R. Eliashib, seventy bur- 
glaries were committed in Nehardea; when R. Hamnuna, hail- 
stones fell from heaven; when Rabba and R. Joseph died, the 
bridge-arches of Euphrates collapsed; when Abayi and Rabha, 
the bridge-arches of Hiddekel collapsed; when R. Mesharshia 
died, the trees were laden with thorns (instead of fruit).+ 

MISHNA: The food for the funeral meal is not placed 
before the mourners on a table, nor in a silver tureen, norina 
dish, but in wicker baskets. The mourning prayers must not 
be pronounced on the middle days, but the rows are formed and 
the consolation is pronounced and the people assembled are at 
once dismissed. The bier must not be set down in any public 
place, that the mourning may not spread (in the middle days). 
The bier of women must at zo time be there set down, on ac- 
count of respect (to the sex of the deceased). } 

“* The bier niust not be set down in any public street.’’ Said R. 





* Reketh is Tiberias. (Rashi.) 

+ All this must not be understood literally but allegorically. 

¢ The Gemara belonging to this Mishna, which properly does not come in here, 
will be found in its proper place. 


TRACT MOED KATAN (MINOR FESTIVALS). 45 


Papa: ‘‘ No middle days are considered in regard to a scholar 
(Talmid-Hakham), and so much the more so the half-feast of 
Hanuka or Purim. This, however, is the case only in the pres- 
ence of the corpse.’’ This is not so? Has not R. Kahana 
lamented over the death of R. Zbhid of Nehardea on the banks 
of the river (and surely the corpse was not there)? Said R. 
Papa: ‘‘ That was on the very day he received the information, 
which is equivalent to the presence of the corpse.’’ 

MISHNA: The mourning women may wail during the mid- 
dle days, but not clap (their palms together). R. Ishmael said: 
The nearest to the bier may clap. On the days of the New 
Moon, on the half-festivals of Hanuka and Purim, they may wail 
and clap, but must not sing lamentations; but when the corpse 
is interred, they must neither wail aloud nor clap. 

What is meant by wailing? When all of them join in one 
chorus. What is meant by lamentation? When one recites and 
the others respond, as it is written [Jer. ix. 20]: “Teach your 
daughters wailing and every one her neighbor lamentation.” 
But of the age that is to come it is written [Isa. xxv. 8]: “ He 
will destroy death to eternity ; and the Lord eternal will wipe 
away the tear from off all faces.” 

GEMARA: R. Levi bar Hitha said: One who takes leave 
of the dead shall not say, “ Go zz peace,” but “ Go with peace,” 
as it is written [Gen. xv. 15]: “ But thou shalt come to thy fathers 
with peace” (Besholom); but the contrary must be said when 
taking leave of the living. When David said to Absalom: “Go 
with peace” [II Sam. xv. g], the latter hanged himself; while, 
when Jethro said to Moses [Exod. iv. 18]: “Go zz peace” 
(Zesholom), Moses went and was successful. R. Levi further 
said: One who goes from the college to the prayer-house, and 
vice versa, is rewarded by receiving the appearance of the She- 
khina, as it is written [Psalms, Ixxxiv. 8]: “‘ They go from strength 
(college) to strength (the prayer-house); each of them appeared 
before God in Zion.” R. Hyya bar Ashi said in the name of 
Rabh: “Scholars (Talmide-Hakhamim) have no rest even in the 
world to come, as it is written [ibid.]: ‘They go from strength to 
strength ; each of them appeareth before God in Zion.’” 


END OF TRACT MOED KATAN (MINOR FESTIVALS). 


Eo es 
aay TES 
er 













Original Text, Edited, Corrected, Formulated, and 
Translated into English 


BY 


MICHAEL L. RODKINSON > ve | 


TRACTS TAANITH, MEGILLA, AND EBEL RABBATHI 
OR SEMAHOTH ie 


Volume VIII 


NEW YORK , 
NEW TALMUD PUBLISHING COMPANY 
54 East 106TH STREET 


EXPLANATORY REMARKS. 


In our translation we adopted these principles: 


“1. Tenan of the original—We have learned ina Mishna; Tania—We have 
learned in a Boraitha; /temar—lIt was taught. 


2. Questions are indicated by the interrogation point, and are ear 
followed by the answers, without being so marked. 


3. When in the original there occur two statements separated by the phrase, 
Lishna achrena or Waibayith Aema or [kha damri vga “otherwise oes sear Ky 
we translate only ia: second, | 


4. As the pages of the original are indicated in our new Hebrew edition, it is not 
deemed necessary to mark them in the English edition, this being only a translation 
from the latter. 


5. Words or passages enclosed in round parentheses ( ) denote the explanation 
rendered by Rashi to the foregoing sentence or word. Square parentheses [ ] contain 
commentaries by authorities of the last period of construction of the Gemara, " 


7 


CopyRiGHT, 1899, BY 
MICHAEL L. RODKINSON, | 











et 
- 
s 
2 
a 
2 


4 


EATERY Saw: 


Trak 


A WORD TO THE PUBLIC. 


WITH this volume Section Moed (Festivals), the weightiest 
and most difficult of the six Talmud sections, becomes com- 
plete. Students of the Talmud will observe that while the old 
edition contains twelve treatises, we have embodied thirteen, 
taking one—viz., Tract Ebel Rabbathi—from Section Nezikin 
(Damages), for reasons which will be stated further on. 

Section Festivals contains all the Halakhoth (ordinances) per- 
taining to the Sabbath, to festivals, semi-festivals, fast-days, 
feast-days, and days of mourning, and stands: practically inde- 
pendent of all other sections, inasmuch as we have been careful 
to cull all matter bearing upon the subjects discussed in this 
section from the other sections, and to insert the same in its 
proper place. (See Betza, p. 45.)* 

And now that by the grace of the Almighty we have suc- 
ceeded in editing and translating an entire section of the Tal- 
mud, a work that, with due modesty, we can claim stands unique 
in the annals of literature, we deem it but fair to explain to our 
readers the method adopted by us in the accomplishment of this 
task, and demonstrate as well the innovations and changes intro- 
duced in comparison with the original, ancient edition. They 
are: 

(a) In the original the name of each separate treatise alone 
indicated its contents, while the chapters into which such treatise 
was subdivided were known merely by the words with which 
they began. We have, however, headed each chapter with a 
line or two giving in succinct form the subjects discussed 
therein. 

(4) Rashi’s commentary, without the aid of which even stu- 
dents of the original Talmud cannot comprehend the intricate 
meanings of portions of the text, we have, wherever practicable, 
embodied zz the text, denoting such commentary by the use of 
parentheses, and where this was not feasible on account of the 





* This is only one instance where this policy was pursued. There are, of course, 
countless others, too numerous to mention. 


iv A WORD TO THE PUBLIC. 


vagueness of the phraseology and its inseparability from the 
text proper, we have made the commentary an integral part of 
the text. 

(c) Wherever Rashi’s commentary was insufficient or rather 
vague, and we were in consequence compelled to make use of 
one of the several other commentaries forming part of the origi- 
nal Talmud, we have added a footnote giving the name of the 
other commentator and the reasons for taking his opinion. (See 
Erubin, p. 211.) 

(2) The frequent repetitions of discussions, some literally 
alike and others having a similar tendency even though employ- 
ing a change of terms, occurring in the several sections and cor- 
responding treatises, we have translated once only. We have 
been careful, however, to mark such places where a repetition 
occurs and is not embodied, giving the name of the treatise and 
the page where it can be found. In this section, now completed, 
we have also omitted some discussions which are repeated in 
treatises where they are more pertinent. There they will appear 
in due time, and where they are at present lacking, a notice to 
that effect will be found, and the place of their proper insertion 
is denoted. (See Succah, p. 48.) 

(e) The original Talmud, with its innumerable biblical quota- 
tions, nowhere indicates where such biblical quotations may be 
found, simply stating: “‘ It is written,’’ etc. One savant named 
Joshua Boas went to the trouble of publishing a work called 
‘““ Thora Or,’’ in which he provides each biblical quotation found 
in the Talmud with its place in its respective book and chapter 
without naming the verse; but, either through misprints or neg- 
ligence, they are for the most part incorrect. In our edition 
we give the book, chapter, and exact verse of each biblical quo- 
tation, as well as its correct form, as far as obtainable. 

(7) We have, wherever necessary, made a footnote explain- 
ing the much-encountered Talmudic peculiarity of dividing up a 
word so as to put a different construction upon its meaning, and 
thus obliterate its actual linguistic purport. Wherever a word 
is totally untranslatable the fact is recorded and the word cir- 
cumscribed likewise in a footnote. We have also had occasion 
to refer the reader, for the elucidation of some passages, to our 
previously published works, but in no case is such reference 
absolutely necessary. 

(g) It has become necessary in some cases to provide a 
treatise with a special introduction or an appendix, or both, and 








A WORD TO THE PUBLIC. v 


this we have done whenever it seemed to us to facilitate the 
understanding of such treatise. 

(kh) Wherever the Talmud made use of a Greek word, natu- 
rally in Hebrew letters, and consequently at times incorrectly, 
we have, to avoid errors, rendered the word into pure Greek. In 
a doubtful case we have appended a footnote giving the word in 
several versions and emphasizing the one most likely to have 
been the correct one. (See Erubin, p. 208.) 

(¢) While any index of subjects treated in the Mishna and 
Gemara is impossible for reasons we have already explained in 
the few lines heading the synopsis of Volume I., we have pro- 
vided each volume with a synopsis of a sufficient scope to enable 
the reader to find any subject of peculiar interest to him without 
perusing the entire volume. 

(7) Wherever two disputing Amoraim are not of the same 
period—on the contrary, were in existence a century or so apart— 
we have called the attention of the reader to this in a footnote 
explaining who the discussing teachers were, their probable 
names, etc. 

(2) Whatever misprints occurred in the original edition of the 
Talmud we have carefully corrected, and have explained their 
probable origin and cause. (Erubin, p. 192.) 

(2) The absence of commentaries to the tracts Shekalim and 
Ebel Rabbathi gave us an opportunity to add our own comment, 
which we have done with as much care and zeal as possible. 

Finally, we call attention to the explanatory remarks printed 
on the reverse of the title-page of each volume. 

Now it remains for us to state the reason why we embody 
the Tract Ebel Rabbathi in this section. 

Maimonides tried to find some explanation for the sequence 
of sections and tracts of the Talmud, and whether he succeeded 
in this endeavor or not we will leave to the decision of the 
reader. At all events, as far as the Tract Ebel Rabbathi is con- 
cerned, he could not give any reason why it should have found 
a place in the Section Nezikin (Damages). 

As a matter of fact, the Tract Ebel Rabbathi is not among 
the thirty-seven main tracts comprising the Babylonian Talmud, 
but is accounted one of the minor tracts written after the orig- 
inal was finished. Yet it would be decidedly wrong to class 
Ebel Rabbathi with the minor tracts, and for the reason that in 
a number of instances we find a passage in the Talmud reading, 
‘“‘ We have learned in Ebel Rabbathi,’’ proving conclusively that 


vi A WORD TO THE PUBLIC. 


it antedates the final completion of the original Babylonian 
edition. | 

The bibliographers Zunz and N. Bruell endeavored to prove 
that the Tract Ebel Rabbathi, so frequently mentioned in the 
Talmud proper, is not identical with the one found among the 
minor tracts, and Dr. Mielziner, in his Introduction to the Tal- 
mud, adds: “‘ It seems to be a reproduction of the same with 
later additions.’’ We do not care, as the Talmud says, “‘ to 
put our heads between the mountains,’’ and contradict these 
learned gentlemen, although they have not quoted by a good 
many all the quotations of Ebel Rabbathi used by the Talmud, 
and we have found that all quotations from Ebel Rabbathi are 
verbatim reproductions from the tract now before us. Be this, 
however, as it may, this tract is the oly source in the Hebrew code 
from which the ordinances and laws pertaining to the mode of pro- 
cedure with dying, dead, burials, and mourners, in vogue even at 
this day with all classes of Jews, emanate. Were we to leave this 
tract untranslated, the Section Festivals would be incomplete. 

It must be borne in mind that laws pertaining to mourners 
are thoroughly discussed in one of the tracts of Section Festi- 
vals, Moed Katan, and hence our, we hope valid, excuse for 
embodying the Tract Ebel Rabbathi as part and parcel of that 
section. We wish to call attention to the fact, however, that 
such mourners’ ordinances as had no connection with festivals 
and feast-days we have eliminated from the original tract in 
which they were contained, and have transferred them to Ebel 
Rabbathi, where they properly belong. 

Having thus, in this introduction, outlined as fully as possible 
our method of disclosing the weighty contents of Judaism’s 
greatest example of literature to laymen and those of the archzo- 
logical students unacquainted with the idioms employed by the 
Talmudic teachers, we lay our work open to the critics and 
invite, in all honesty of purpose, scholarly, pithy criticism. So 
far we have only been favored with spasmodic efforts at criti- 
cism, consisting mainly of dissenting opinions as to the use of a 
term or the spelling of a word taken from the Hebrew and tran- 
scribed into English. What we would appreciate, however, is a 
fair and just summarizing of the work as a whole, of its value 
as such, and of its merit in facilitating the general knowledge 
among laymen, Gentiles and Jews alike, of ancient customs, 
ordinances, laws, and usages. M. L. R. 

NEW YORK, June 18, 1899. 





A LETTER FROM PROF. DR. M. LAZARUS, GEH. 
REGIERUNGSRATH. 


MERAN (AUSTRIA), d. 14 Funz, 1899. 
HERRN M. L. RODKINSON, New York: 


Geehrter Herr Rodkinson: In meinem Briefe vom 20. Juli, 
85, habe ich meine Ansicht ausgesprochen, dass nur eine Ver- 
bindung von mehreren hervorragenden und bewdhrten Gelehr- 
ten den hohen Zweck einer neuen kritischen Talmud-Ausgabe 
vollkommen erfiillen kénnten. Inzwischen haben Sie selber 
die Ausfiihrung des Werkes nebst einer englischen Uebersetz- 
ung unternommen und bereits 7 Bande drucken lassen. Je- 
dermann muss deshalb Ihren Muth und Ihre Ausdauer be- 
wundern. Auf ein Urtheil, ob Ihre Uebertragung zutreffend 
ist, muss ich bei meiner bescheidenen Kentniss der englischen 
Sprache verzichten; aber Ihr genaues Verstandniss des Origi- 
nals steht ja ausser Zweifel und an dem erforderlichen Beirath 
in Bezug auf die englische Fassung wird es Ihnen ja nicht ge- 
fehlt haben. 

Jeder Schritt zur Verbreitung einer eingehenden Kentniss 
des Talmuds auch im Kreise derer, welche die Sprache des Origi- 
nals nicht kennen, betrachte ich als niitzlich und werthvoll. Ich 
witinsche und hoffe deshalb, dass Sie zur Ausfiihrung Ihres 
grossen Unternehmens reichliche Unterstiitzung finden mégen. 


Mit hochachtungsvollem Grusse, 
LAZARUS. 





) 
= 
i 
z 
iL 
Sao? 
<> 
os 
Zz 
< 
< 
- 
e 
O 
<x 
a4 









































CONTENTS. 








7 PAGE 
A Word TO THE PUBLIC, , 3 hs Bt eh se ; ee 

A LETTER FROM Pror, Dr. M. Lazarus,-GEH. REGIERUNGS- 
RATH,. : ! ‘ i é ; ; oo OR 


SyNOPsIS OF SUBJECTS OF VOLUME VIL, —Tract TAANITH,  Xili 


CHAPTER I. eae 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE TIME WHEN MENTION IS 
MADE OF RAIN IN THE DAILy PRAYER, WHEN RAIN Is 
TO BE PRAYED FOR, WHEN Fast-Days ARE ORDERED ON 
‘WHICH TO PRAY ESPECIALLY FOR RAIN, AND THE CHAR- 
ACTER OF suUCH Days oF MOURNING, . . état Me I 


CHAPTER II. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE ORDER OF PROCEDURE ON hee 
THE Last SEVEN Fast-Days, AND THE PRAYERS TO BE Mes, 
RECITED ON THOSE Days, 3 : P ° ° «2, ¢ gn . % 


‘CHAPTER Il = 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING OCCURRENCES ON ACCOUNT OF 2S 
wHICcH Fast-Days ARE ORDERED, OR ALARMS ARE a2 
SOUNDED. WHEN FastTING on AccouNT oFr RAIN Is na ae 
STOPPED, . " 5 : : : ; ‘ * any = : 





3 : CHAPTER IV. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE PRIESTS’ BLESSING OF THE tee 
aye People, THE INSTITUTION OF THE STANDING MEN— ae 
te THEIR Fasts AND Prayers, THE Fast OF THE SEVEN- ate 
TEENTH Day oF TaMUz AND THE NINTH OF ABH, AND cee 
THE CELEBRATION OF THE FIFTEENTH Day or ABH, . 78 














SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


VOLUME VIII.—TRACT TAANITH.”* 





CHAPTER I. 


MISHNA I. The difference of opinion about the mention of the power of 
rain in the prayer on the days of Tabernacles. Whence do we know that 
mention must be made. Who of the readers shall mention it on the feast of 
Passover. Must one repeat his prayerif he madenomention? Three men 
prayed to God for things that were not suitable. The congregation of Israel 
also prayed for animproper thing, . é , ‘ : PaaS cy 


MISHNAII. Till what time is the rain to be sea for. What was eaten 
during the seven years of famine [II Kings, viii.] Jacob, our father, never 
died. When begin the rain fructifications ? The knowledge of the Law is 
an elixir of life. Why the words of the Law are compared to water, wine, 
and milk. To what the day of rain is equal in importance. The different 
explanations of the interpretation of the passage Eccles. x. 10. Come and 
see how great are the men who have faith (see footnote, pp. 18, 19). When 
there are famine and pestilence what shall be prayed for? The explanation 
of the passage ‘thou shalt truly tithe.” When Aaron died the pillar of 
cloud left, etc. What happened to the disciples of Rabha when he died ? 
About the measurements of the Gehenna and the Garden of Eden, . 7-24 


MISHNAS III. to V. From what time in fall must rain be prayed and 
fasted for if it has not descended ? The punishment of one who leaves the 
congregation when the latter is in trouble, in order to avoid it. What means 
the ‘‘God of truth.” Who is called a sinner when he fasteth? Is a fast of 
hours considered? Until what time may food be partaken of on the day 
preceding the fast? If fast-days pass without answer, what shall be done ? 
What would the elders do when they assembled in the morning? The query 
to Rabbi by the inhabitants of Nineveh, Not every one has a right to rend 
his clothes (when praying), . ‘ : : ‘ : , ‘ 24-35 


CHAPTER II. 


MISHNA I. What is the order of procedure on the fast-days ? What has 
happened to Halaphta and Hanina b. Teradion? About the days that are 
mentioned in the “Roll of Fasts.” On what days of the week the order of 
fasts may begin. Why do they congregate in an open place? Why are 
ashes strewn on the heads of all? Who has a right to address the congre- 





* See introduction to synopsis in Tract Sabbath, Vol. I., p. xxix.; also note at end 
of synopsis in Vol. V. 


xiv SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


gation? What the reader has to say to each benediction. The strife carried 
on between the Pharisees and Bathusees concerning the continual daily 
offering (see footnote, p. 44), Has one to complete his fast if rain de- 
scends? , ; : : : : ‘ : P : ;: . 36-46 


CHAPTER III. 


MISHNA I. On what fast-days an alarm must be sounded. What hap- 
pened to Honi Hama’gel and what message Simeon b. Shetah sent to him. 
What is considered a plague causing death? What price must grain reach 
in order to arrange a fast? The legend of Nakdimon b. Gurion when he 
borrowed water from a heathen. For the sake of Moses, Joshua, and Nakdi- 
mon the sun shone. The good things that R. Huna did, and what Rabha 
had to say to this. Concerning the sickness of Shaibatha. The legend of 
Hilpha and Johanan when they studied together, and what they heard 
of the angels. What happened to Na’hum of Gimzo, and the legend about 
it. The men who have a share in the world to come, who were pointed out 
by Elijah (the prophet) to Beroka of Huzaah. An alarm should be sounded 
over attacks of wild beasts, etc. For a pest an alarmshould be sounded even 
ona Sabbath. What is meant by the passage Levit. xxvi. 4. Thelegend about 
Honi Hama’gel at length, and how he slept seventy years. The legend 
about Abba Helkyah, his grandson, and also of Hanan the Hidden, who was 
a grandson of his daughter, How the Amoraim of Palestine prayed for rain 
and how those of Babylon did. What happened to Oshiya, the youngest 
of the college, with the Nasi when he had ordered a fast-day. The merits of 
the men who have prayed for rain in the presence of Rabbi and Rabh (at 
different places) and were answered at once. Legends about different 
Amoraim who have prayed for rain that were or were not answered. The 
legend at length of Hanina b. Dosa, his wife, etc. How much rain should 
fall in order that the congregation should stop fasting? What happened 
with Samuel the Little when he ordered a fast, g 3 2 i 46-77 


CHAPTER IV. 


MISHNA I, The periods of the year at which the priests shall raise their 
hands for prayer, When the standing men used to fast. The days when Hal- 
lel was sung. The five calamities that happened on the seventeenth of Tamuz 
and those on the ninth of Ab. What is prohibited during the week of the 
ninth of Ab. The festivals of the fifteenth of Ab and the Day of Atone- 
ment. The twenty-four watches which were in the land of Israel. How 
many watches were established by Moses, and how many by David. What 
did the men of the watches pray for? Who were the Gonebe Eli and Kotze 
Ketzioth (see note, p. 84)? Who were the family of Pa’hath Moab ben Jehudah, 
etc.? Whence do we know that the five calamities have happened on the 
seventeenth of Tamuz? Whence do we know that the second Temple was 
also burned on the ninth of Ab? Also that the city of Bethar was. con- 
quered on that day? What is allowed to eat on the afternoon of the eve of 
the ninth of Ab? Which ordinance of mourning is applicable to the ninth 
of Ab? The custom of Jehudah bar Ilai on the night preceding the ninth 
of Ab. What occurrence makes the fifteenth of Ab a festival? What 
Elazar has to say about the ring of righteousness that the Holy One, blessed 
be He, will make in the future in the Garden of Eden, . ; : 78-92 


TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 





CHAPTER I. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE TIME WHEN MENTION IS MADE OF 
RAIN IN THE DAILY PRAYER, WHEN RAIN IS TO BE PRAYED FOR, 
WHEN FAST-DAYS ARE ORDERED ON WHICH TO PRAY ESPECIALLY 
FOR RAIN, AND THE CHARACTER OF SUCH DAYS OF MOURNING. 


MISHNA: From what time should the power manifested in 
the descent of rain be commenced to be mentioned (in the daily 
prayer)? R. Eliezer said: “ From the first day of the Feast of 
Tabernacles.” R. Jehoshua, however, said: “ From the last day 
of that festival.” “For,” said he to R. Eliezer, “since rain on 
the Feast of Tabernacles is considered unpropitious, why should 
it be mentioned in the prayers?” And R. Eliezer answered: 
“T do not mean to say that rain should be prayed for, but only 
that it should be mentioned with the words, ‘He causeth the 
wind to blow, and the rain to descend in its proper time.’” “If 
so,” rejoined R. Jehoshua, “ such mention might be made at all 
seasons of the year.” ‘ 

Prayers for rain should not be said sooner than shortly before 
the commencement of the rainy season. R. Jehudah said: “The 
last of the ministers of the congregation who on the last day of 
the Feast of Tabernacles officiates at the reading-desk should 
mention the rain, but not he who officiates first. On the first 
day of Passover, the minister who officiates first (at the morning 
prayer) should still mention it, but not he who officiates last (at 
the Additional Service).” 

GEMARA: Whence does the Tana of this Mishna adduce 
that the rain must be mentioned or prayed for at all (in the daily 
prayer), that he commences by saying: “ From what time should 
it be mentioned” ? He adduces this from the Mishna in Tract 
Rosh-Hashana (New Year) where he has learned that on the 
Feast of Tabernacles judgment is passed concerning rain, and 


2 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


having learned this, he proceeds to inform us when rain must be 
mentioned and prayed for. If so, let him teach us concerning 
the rain—why does he mention “the power manifested in the 
descent of rain”? Said R. Johanan: “ Because rain descends 
with the power of God, as it is written [Job, v. 10]: ‘ Who giveth 
rain upon the surface of the earth, and sendeth out waters over 
the face of the fields’; and further it is written [ibid. ix. 10]: 
‘Who doeth great things which are quite unsearchable, and 
wonders which are quite without number’” (and rain is also 
included among these “ great things’’). 

Whence do we know, however, that mention must be made 
of rain in the eighteen benedictions of the daily prayer? Be- 
cause we have learned in a Boraitha thus: It is written [Deut. 
xi. 13]: “ To love the Lord your God, and to serve him with all 
your heart and with all your soul.”” And what service can be per- 
formed with the heart? The service of prayer, and immediately 
following the passage quoted it is said [ibid. 14]: “I will send 
rain for your land in its due season, the first rain and the latter 
rain,” etc. 

R. Johanan said: Three keys are in the hands of the Holy 
One, blessed be He, which are not intrusted to any messenger, 
and they are: The key of rain, the key for a woman lying-in, and 
the key for the resurrection of the dead. The key of rain, as it 
is written [Deut. xxviii. 12]: ‘‘ The Lord will open unto thee his 
good treasure, the heaven, to give the rain of thy land in its 
season’; the key for a woman lying-in, as it is written [Genesis, 
xxx. 22]: ‘‘And God remembered Rachel, and God hearkened 
to her, and opened her womb”’; and the key for the resurrection 
of the dead, as it is written [ Ezekiel, xxxvii. 13]: ““And ye shall 
‘know that Iam the Lord, when I open your graves and when I 
cause you to come up out of your graves, O my people.” The 
sages of the West say, that also the key to a man’s earnings are 
in the hands of God alone, as it is written [ Psalms, cxlv. 16]: 
“Thou openest thy hand and satisfiest the desire of every. living 
thing.” 

Why did not R. Johanan mention this also? Because R. 
Johanan may claim that rain itself is the means of earning a live- 
lihood. 

“R. Eliezer said: ‘From the first day of the Feast of Taber- 
nacles.’’ The schoolmen propounded a question: Whence 
does R. Eliezer derive his teaching? Does he derive it from the 
palm-branch which is brought along for use at the morning ser- 


Se ol ita ile OF See ee 


TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 3 


vice only, or from the pouring of water, which is brought also in 
the evening, as the Master says: “It is written [Numb. xxix. 24]: 
‘Their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings ’ (in plural), that is 
to say, that they may be brought even in the evening, and there- 
fore R, Eliezer holds that mention of the rain should be made 
even on the eve of the Feast of Tabernacles ?”’ 

Come and hear: R. Abbahu said: “R. Eliezer derived his 

teaching from the palm-branch.” Some say, that R. Abbahu had 
a tradition to that effect, while others hold that he takes it from 
the following Boraitha: From what time is mention made of rain 
in the daily prayer? R. Eliezer said: “ From the time the palm- 
branch is taken ” (z.e., from the time the morning-prayer is said). 
R. Jehoshua, however, said: “ From the time when the palm- 
branch is laid aside”’ (z.e., from the time of the Additional Prayer, 
when the palm-branch is not used). Said R. Eliezer: ‘“ Because 
the four articles * of the Feast of Tabernacles are used only for 
the purpose of favorably inclining the judgment concerning rain ; 
and as those four articles cannot grow without water, neither can 
the world exist without water, therefore mention of rain must be 
made even in the morning.” And R. Jehoshua replied: “ But 
rain during the festival of Tabernacles is considered an unpro- 
pitious event!” (because it prevents the sitting in the booth). 
Whereupon R. Eliezer rejoined: “I do not mean to say that 
rain should be prayed for but merely that it should be mentioned, 
and it is the same as the mention of the resurrection of the dead, 
which though this can take place only at the appointed time, it 
is nevertheless mentioned all the yearround. Therefore if a man 
desires to mention rain in the prayer the whole year, he may _ 
do so.” 
Rabbi, however, said: “I say, that when a man ceases to 
pray for rain, he should also cease mentioning it.””’ And R. Jehu- 
dah ben Bathyra said: “ Mention of the rain should begin to be 
made on the second day of the Feast of Tabernacles.” R. Aqiba 
said: “ Even on the sixth day.” R. Jehudah in the name of R. 
Jehoshua said: “ The last of the ministers of the congregation 
who on the last day of the Feast of Tabernacles officiates at the 
reading-desk should mention the rain; but not he who offici- 
ates first. On the first day of the Passover, the minister who 
officiates first should still mention it, but not he who officiates 
last.” 





* See Leviticus, xxiii. 40. 


4 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


We have learned in a Boraitha: Our sages did not impose the 
duty on a man to make mention of the dew and wind in the 
prayer; but if he desires to do so, he may. Whyso? Said R. 
Hanina: Because dew and wind are never withheld. Whence 
do I knowthis? Because it is written [I Kings, xvii. 1]: “ Then 
said Elijah the Tishbite, who was of the inhabitants of Gilead, 
unto Achab, ‘As the Lord the God of Israel liveth, before whom 
I have stood, there shall not be in these years dew or rain, except 
according to my word’ ’’; and further, it is written [ibid. xviii. 1] : 
“Go, show thyself unto Achab; and I will give razm upon the 
face of the earth,” but in the latter passage dew is not men- 
tioned, because it was never withheld. It might be asked, how- 
ever, why Elijah swore that it would not fall? He meant to say 
merely that no dew which would benefit the soil would fall, for 
all the dew which should fall would not be productive of any 
good. 

Whence do we know that the wind will not be withheld? 
Said R. Jehoshua ben Levi: “ Because it is written [Zech. ii. 10]: 
‘For as the four winds of heaven have I spread you abroad,’ 
which signifies, that as the world cannot exist without winds, so 
it cannot also exist without Israel.” 

R. Hanina said: From what we have learned so far, we see 
that if a man said in his prayer during the dry season, “He 
causeth the wind to blow,” he is not obliged to say his prayer 
over again; but if he said “ He causeth the rain to descend,” he 
is bound to say the prayer again. During the rainy season if he 
omitted in his prayer the words, “‘ He causeth the wind to blow,” 
he need not be made to say the prayer over again, but if he 
omitted the words, “ He causeth the rain to descend,” he should 
be made to say the prayer again. And not only this, but if the 
man said in his prayer the words, “ He causeth the wind to cease 
and the dew to vanish,” he need not repeat the prayer, because 
those words are of no consequence. 

We have learned in another Boraitha: The sages did not 
impose the duty of mentioning clouds and winds in the prayer; 
but if a man chooses to do so he may, because they are not 
withheld. 

R. Jehudah said: The wind which comes after the rain does 
as much good as the rain itself; the sun which comes after the 
rain does as much good as two rains. 

Rabha said: Snow to the mountains is as beneficial as five 
rains are to the ground, as it is written [Job, xxxvi. 6]: “For 


<2 


TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 5 


to the snow he saith, ‘Be thou on the earth’; likewise to the 
pouring rain, and to the pouring rains of his strength.” * 

Rabha said again: ‘‘ Snow is good for the mountains; a light 
rain is good for the trees; a heavy rain is good for the budding 
fruit, and a shower is even beneficial to the seed lying dormant 
in the ground.” . 

Again Rabha said: “A young scholar is like a seed, lying-in 
the ground, which, once sprouting, will continue to grow.” And 
he said also: “When a young scholar appears excited, it should 
be known that it is his knowledge that is excited within him, as 
it is written [ Jeremiah, xxiii. 29]: ‘Is not thus my word like the 
fire? saith the Lord.’” And R. Ashi said that a scholar who is 
not as firm as iron cannot be considered a scholar, because the 
end of that passage reads: “ And like a hammer that shivereth 
the rock.’”’ Said Rabhina: “Still, a man should train himself to 


speak calmly without anger, as it is written [Ecclesiastes, xi. 10]: 


>? 


‘And remove anger from thy heart. 

R. Samuel ben Na’hmeni in the name of R. Jonathan said: 
Three men prayed to God for things that were not suitable (for 
prayer). Two were answered in a proper manner, but one was 
answered accordingly. They are: Eliezer the slave of Abraham, 
Saul the son of Kish, and Jephthah of Gilead. Concerning 
Eliezer it is written [Genesis, xxiv. 14]: ‘“ Be (she) the one thou 
hast appointed for thy servant Isaac.” Now, the maiden may have 
been blind or maimed, but still the Lord ordained it so that 
Rebekah was the one. Concerning Saul the King it is written 
[I Samuel, xvii. 25]: “And it shall be that the man who killeth 
him, him will the king enrich and his daughter will he give him,” 
etc. It might have happened that a slave or an illegitimate son 
might have accomplished the feat, but still the Lord destined it 
to be David. Concerning Jephthah it is written [Judges, xi. 31]: 
“Then shall it be, that whatsoever cometh forth out of the doors 
of my house . . . I will burn it up for a burnt-offering.” 
The prayer was improper, because an unclean thing (such as a 
swine or a dog) might have come forth which would not be a 
proper sacrifice, and the answer was also not proper, for his own 
daughter came forth to meet him. This causes the wrathful query 
of Jeremiah the prophet, as it is written [Jeremiah, viii. 22]: “Is 
there no more balm in Gilead? or is no physician there?” 





* This is signified because in the Hebrew rain is mentioned five times in this 
passage—including snow. 


6 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


(meaning was there not Pin’has the high-priest in Gilead, who 
could have released Jephthah of his vow?).* And further, it is 
written [ibid. xix. 5]: ‘“ Which I had not commanded, nor 
spoken, and which had not come into my mind,’ which implies, 
“T had not commanded”’ refers to the sacrificing of the son of 
Mesha the King of Moab by his father [II Kings, iii. 27]: “now 
spoken,” refers to the daughter of Jephthah; and “ which had 
not come into my mind,” refers to Isaac, whom his father 
Abraham was willing to sacrifice. 

Said R. Berachiah: The congregation of Israel also prayed 
for an improper thing, but the Holy One, blessed be He, answered 
it in a proper manner, as it is written [ Hosea, vi. 3]: “And let us 
feel it, that we may strive to know the Lord; bright as the 
morning dawn is his rising; and may He come as the rain unto 
us, as the latter rain that maketh fruitful the earth.’”’” And the 
Holy One, blessed be He, said: My daughter, thou askest a thing 
which at times is necessary and at other times is superfluous, but 
I will be to thee as a thing which is at all times needed, as it is 
written [Hosea, xiv. 6]: “I will be as the dew unto Israel.” 
Once again the congregation of Israel prayed improperly, saying: 
“ Sovereign of the universe! Set meas a seal upon thy heart, as 
a seal upon thy arm” [Solomon’s Song, viii. 6], and the Lord 
said: Thou askest me to do a thing which at times can be seen 
and at other times cannot, for sometimes the heart is closed and 
the arms are covered; but I will set thee as a seal in a place that 
is always exposed; as it is written [Isaiah, xlix. 16]: ‘“ Behold, 
upon the palms of my hands have I engraved thee.” 

“ Shortly before the commencement of the rainy season.’ The 
schoolmen thought that mentioning rain in the prayer and pray- 
ing for it was one and the same thing, therefore they said that 
this Mishna is in accordance with the opinion of R. Jehoshua, 
who said previously that rain must be mentioned from the time 
that the palm-branch is laid aside. Said Rabhatothem: “ Nay; 
this Mishna may even be in accordance with R. Eliezer’s opinion, 
for mentioning rain and praying for it are two different things.” 

“ R, Jehudah said: ‘ The last of the ministers,” etc. Is this 
not a contradiction to what we learn in the next Mishna, namely : 
Until when is rain to be prayed for? R. Jehudah said: “Until 





* Elsewhere the Talmud rebukes both Jephthah and Pin’has ; Jephthah would not 
go to Pin’has because he, being a prince, considered himself the superior of Pin’has, 
while Pin’has, being high-priest, thought it below his dignity to go to Jephthah, and 
on account of this pride a human life was sacrificed. 








TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). ; 


after the Passover,” etc. Said R. Hisda: “ This presents no diffi- 
‘culty. Our Mishna refers to the mention of the rain, while the 
Mishna quoted refers to praying for rain, and rain may be prayed 
for during the entire Passover.’’ Said Ula: “ This statement of 
R. Hisda is. as vinegar to the teeth and smoke tothe eyes. Ifa 
man may mention rain even when he should not pray for it, why 
should he not when praying for it also be allowed to mention it?” 
Therefore, says Ula, this contradiction can be explained from the 
fact that two Tanaim differ as to the opinion of R. Jehudah. 

R. Assi in the name of R. Johanan said: “The Halakha pre- 
vails according to R. Jehudah.” 

How shall we do, however, who have two days as the last days 
of the festival? (Shall we apply the Halakha to the first of those 
two days or to the last?) Said Rabh: “The rain should be first 
mentioned in the Additional Prayer on the first of the two last 
days, then it should be omitted in all prayers until the Additional 
Prayer on the second of those days, when it should again be men- 
tioned.” Said Samuel to those who repeated Rabh’s statement : 
“Go ye and tell Abba this: ‘Is it proper that after thou hast 
sanctified the day thou shouldst make it ordinary again? For in 
the afternoon prayer of that day thou hast omitted the mention 
of the rain.’ Therefore I say that mention should be made first 
at the Additional Prayer on the first of the two last days, also in 
the afternoon prayer, then it may be omitted at night and in the 
morning of the following day; but it should be again mentioned 
in the Additional Prayer of the last day.”” Rabha, however, said : 
“ As he once began to mention it, it should not be stopped again.”’ 
And so also said R. Shesheth, and even Rabh retracted his former 
statement, for R. Hananel said in his name that twenty-one days 
should be counted from the New Year day the same as the ten 
days preceding the Day of Atonement are counted, and on the 
twenty-first day he should commence to make mention of the rain 
and should then not omit it in any of the prayers. So the 
Halakha prevails. 

MISHNA: Till what time is the rain to be prayed for? R. 
Jehudah says until after the Passover; R. Meir says till the 
month of Nissan is passed, because it is said [Joel, ii. 23]: “ And 
he hath caused to come down for you the rain, the first rain, and 
the latter rain in the first month.” 

GEMARA: Said R. Na’hman to R. Itz’hak: “ Does the first 
rain then descend in the month of Nissan, does it not descend 
in Mar-Cheshvan? As we have learned in a Boraitha, namely: 


8 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


‘The first rains fall in Mar-Cheshvan and the latter rains in 
Nissan.’”” And R. Itzhak answered: R. Johanan said thus: 
The passage quoted in the Mishna, which states that both the 
first and the latter rains come down in the first month, refers to 
the time of Joel the son of Pethuel, when, it is written [Joel, i. 4]: 
“What the caterpillar left, hath the locust eaten,” etc. In that 
year the month of Adar had already passed, and the first rain 
descended in the month of Nissan. Said the prophet to Israel: 
“Go and sow your seed.” And they replied: ‘Should one who 
has a patch of barley or wheat eat it and live, or sow it and die 
(until the new grain becomes ripe)?’’ And he said to them: 
“ Still, see that ye sow as much as ye can.”” Thereupon a mira- 
cle occurred, and the grain which had been hidden in the walls 
and in the subterranean passages of the ants was discovered. 
They then went and sowed their grain on the second, third, and 
fourth days of Nissan. On the fifth of Nissan the second rain 
fell, and on the sixteenth of that month they already offered up 
_ the new grain which had ripened. Thus the grain which should 
have taken six months to ripen, matured in eleven days; and the 
offerings which were usually brought of grain that had been 
growing six months, were that time brought of such as had only 
been growing eleven days, and concerning this generation it is 
written [Psalms, cxxvi. 5]: “‘Those that sow in tears shall reap 
in joyful song.” 

R. Na’hman said again to R. Itz’hak: “It is written [II 
Kings, viii. 1]: ‘ For the Lord hath called for a famine, and it is 
also coming on the land for seven years.’ What was eaten during 
these seven years?” And he answered: “So said R. Johanan: 
In the first year they ate the reserve store that they had in their 
houses ; in the second year they ate the reserve store they had 
in the fields; in the third they ate the flesh of ritually clean ani- 
mals; on the fourth, the flesh of ritually unclean animals; in the 
fifth year they ate reptiles; in the sixth year the famine was so 
severe that people had to eat their own children; and in the 
seventh it reached a stage where some had to eat the flesh from 
off their own arms; and the saying [Isaiah, ix. 19]: ‘ They shall 
eat every man the flesh of his own arm,’ was verified thereby.” 

Again, R. Na’hman asked R. Itz’hak: It is written [Hosea, x1. 
9g]: “ The Holy One in the midst of thee, and I will not come 
into the city.” How is this to be understood? Because the in- 
habitants did so much good in the city that they were called 
holy, and the Holy One did not wish to enter? And R. Itz’hak 





TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 9 


answered: “Thus said R. Johanan: The Holy One, blessed be 
He, said that He would not enter the Jerusalem of the heavens 
until he could enter the Jerusalem below.” “Is there then a 
Jerusalem above?” asked R. Na’hman. “ Yea,” was the answer, 
“for it is written [ Psalms, cxxii. 3]: ‘ Jerusalem! which art built 
as a city wherein all associate together’ ”’ (¢.e., Jerusalem is built 
as that Jerusalem which is connected (associated) with it. Hence 
there is another Jerusalem, and that is above in the heavens). 

R. Na’hman again asked R. Itz’hak: “ How is the passage 
[Jeremiah, x. 8]: ‘ But at once shall they be shown to be brutish 
and foolish: it is a doctrine of vanities, it concerneth but wood,’ 
to be understood?” And he replied: “Thus said R. Johanan: 
One thing will cause men to burn in Gehenna, and that is idola- 
try; for it is said above, ‘a doctrine of vanities, it concerneth 
but wood,’ and further, we find it written [ibid. 15]: ‘ They are 
vanity, the work of deception; in the time of their punishment 
shall they vanish.’ ” 

R. Na’hman asked R. Itz’hak again: ‘‘ What does the passage 
[Jeremiah, ii. 13], ‘For two evils have my people committed,’ 
mean? Are there only two, and the twenty-four which are sub- 
sequently enumerated * (in the same chapter) were forgiven 
them?” And R. Itz’hakanswered: Thus said R. Johanan: One 
evil which is considered as two—namely, idolatry—as it is written 
_ further [ibid.]: “Me have they forsaken, the source of living 
waters, to hew out for themselves cisterns, broken cisterns, that 
cannot hold water”; and it is also written [ibid. 10 and 11]: 
“For pass over to the isles of the Kittites, and see; and unto 
Kedar send, and consider well: and see if anything like this 
hath happened. Hath a nation exchanged its gods, which are 
yet no gods? and still my people hath exchanged its glory for 
that which cannot profit.” In a Boraitha we have learned as 
follows: The Kittites worship fire and the inhabitants of Kedar 
worship water, and though knowing that water extinguishes fire, 
they nevertheless did not exchange their god, while my people 
exchanged their god for “that which cannot profit.” 

R. Na’hman and R. Itz’hak sat together at a meal, and R. 
Na’hman said to the latter: “ Let Master relate something !”’ 
And R. Itz’hak said: “So said R. Johanan: ‘ While eating one 
should not talk, lest the food enter the windpipe (trachea) before 





* According to the commentary of Rabbenu Hananel there are altogether twenty- 
six evils, committed by the Israelites, enumerated in Jeremiah ii. 


10 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


the gullet and inflict an injury.’’’ After having finished their 
meal, he said: “So said R. Johanan: ‘Jacob our father never 
died.’”” And R. Na’hman rejoined: “Then was it in vain that 
he was mourned and embalmed?” And R. Itz’hak replied: “I 
make this assertion from the following passage [Jeremiah, xxx. 
10]: ‘And thou, do not fear, O my servant Jacob, saith the Lord, 
and be not dismayed, O Israel; for, behold, I will save thee from 
afar, and thy seed from the land of their captivity ; and Jacob 
shall return, and shall be at rest, and be secure, with none to 
terrify him.’ And Jacob is compared to his children ; as the latter 
are still living so is he also.” * 

When R. Na’hman and R. Itz’hak were about to part, the 
former said to R. Itz’hak: “Bless me.” And he answered: “I 
shall tell thee a parable to which this can be compared: A man 
once went into the desert, and when hungry, thirsty, and tired came 
to a tree bearing luscious fruit and affording plenty of shade, and 
underneath which there was a spring of water. He ate of the 
fruit, drank of the water, and rested beneath the shade. When 
about to leave he turned to the tree and said: ‘ Tree, tree, where- 
with can I bless thee? That thy fruit may be sweet—it is already 
sweet; that thou shouldst afford plenty of shade—that also thou 
dost; that a spring may be near thee—even that thou hast. The 
one thing left me which I can wish for thee is, that all trees 
planted from thy seed may be as fruitful as thou art.’ So it is 
with thee. Should I bless thee with knowledge—that thou hast ; 
should I bless thee with riches—that thou also hast; should I 
bless thee with children—even children thou lackest not; hence 
all I can wish thee is that thy seed be as prosperous as thou art.” 

The rabbis taught: Why is the first rain called Yorah?+ 
Because it teaches the people to paint their roofs, take in the 
fruit, and otherwise prepare for the winter; and also because it 
satiates the earth and penetrates into the very depths, as it is 
written [Psalms, Ixv. 11]: ‘‘ Watering her furrows abundantly ; 
smoothing down her ridges, thou softenest her with showers; 
thou blessest her growth.” Another thing that is meant by 
“ Yorah” is “a rain that comes without storm’’; and as the first 
rain is intended for a blessing, so also is the latter rain. And 
whence do we know that the first rain is intended for a blessing? 





* The commentary of Tosphath says that it is a noteworthy fact that while the 
Scriptures state that Abraham and Isaac died, they say that Jacob ‘‘ departed this 
life” [Gen. xlix. 33]. 

+ In addition to Yorah, meaning the first rain, it also means to show or to teach. 


TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). II 


From the passage [Joel, ii. 23]: “And ye children of Zion, be 
glad, and rejoice in the Lord your God; for he hath given you 
the first rain in beneficence, and he hath caused to come down for 
you the rain, the first rain and the latter rain in the first month.” 

The rabbis taught: The first rain falls in the month of Mar- 
Cheshvan and the latter rain in Nissan. Whence do we know 
that the first rain should fall in the month of Mar-Cheshvan, 
perhaps it would do if it fell in the month of Kislev? Because 
the first and latter rains are mentioned together and by the latter 
rain is meant that falling in Nissan; for otherwise it would be of 
no benefit. Hence by the first rain is meant that falling in Mar- 
Cheshvan. In another Boraitha it is added that such is the 
dictum of R. Meir; but the sages say: “The first rain falls in 
Kislev.’”” Who are those sages? Said R. Hisda: That is R. 
Jose, who says, in another Boraitha, that the time for the first 
rain is the third day of Mar-Cheshvan; ordinarily it falls on the 
7th of that month, and if it is delayed it falls on the 17th. Such 
is the dictum of R. Meir. But R. Jehudah says the three dates 
are the 7th, 17th, and 23d, and R. Jose says they are the 17th, 
the 23d, and the Ist of Kislev; and he added that fasting for 
rain is not necessary until the Ist of Kislev has passed without 
rain having fallen. Said R. Hisda: “The Halakha prevails 
according to R. Jose.” 

Ameimar taught the same as R. Hisda with reference to 
another Boraitha: We have learned: As early as the 3d of Mar- 
Cheshvan, rain should be prayed for. R. Gamaliel said: “On 
the 7th of that month is the time when the delayed rain should 
be prayed for.” Said R. Hisda: “The Halakha prevails accord- 
ing to R. Gamaliel.” 

According to whom will the following Boraitha be? We have 
learned: R. Simeon ben Gamaliel said: “If there was rain for 
seven consecutive days it must not be considered as too much 
rain, but merely that there was a threefold fructification of the 
earth by the rain.” (This will be according to R. Jose, who said 
that seven days elapse between each fructification, and R. Hisda 
said the Halakha prevails according to R. Jose.) Said R. Ab- 
bahu: “ Why is it called fructification? Because it fructifies the 
earth; for R. Jehudah said that the rain is the husband of 
the earth, as it is written [Isaiah, lv. 10]: ‘For as the rain and 
the snow come down from heaven, and return not thither, but 
water the earth, and render it fruitful, and cause it to bring forth 
plants.’” 


12 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


R. Abbahu said again: “The first fructification takes place if 
the rain penetrates one span into the ground, and the second 
fructification is accomplished when the soil is so pliable that it 
can be used to stop up a barrel without the addition of other 
water.” 

R. Hisda said: “If at the first fructification the soil becomes 
so pliable that it can be used to stop up a barrel, it cannot be 
considered as if the heavens were closed (and no rain had fallen).” 
He said again: “If it rained in some cities, but was dry in others, 
it cannot be said that the heavens are closed.” This is not so! 
For is it not written [Amos, iv. 7]: “And I also had indeed 
withholden from you the rain, when it was yet three months to 
the harvest ; and I caused it to rain upon one city, and upon 
another city I caused it not to rain; one piece of land was rained 
upon, and another piece whereupon it rained not became dried 
up.” And R. Jehudah said, in the name of Rabh, that the entire 
verse was in the form of a curse? This presents no difficulty. 
For the verse signifies that in one city it will rain too much and 
in another it will not rain at all, which is a curse; but if it rain 
ordinarily in one city and not at all in another (one city can draw 
its supply from the other). Said R. Ashi: “This very thing 
may be inferred from the passage itself; for it says ‘one piece 
of land was rained upon,’ and that implies that in that piece of 
land there will be too much rain.” * 

R. Abbahu said: “The day of rain is of more importance 
than the day of resurrection; for on the latter day only the 
righteous will arise from the dead, but rain falls for all alike, 
righteous and wicked.” And R. Abbahu differs with R. Jose, 
who declares that the day of rain is just as important as the day 
of resurrection, and for that reason is mentioned in the prayer at 
the benediction regarding the resurrection of the dead. 

R. Jehudah said: “The day of rain is as important as the day 
on which the Law was given, because it is written [Deut. xxxii. 
2]: ‘My doctrine shall drop as the rain, and by doctrine is 
meant the Law; for it is written [Proverbs, iv. 2]: ‘For good 
doctrine do I give you: my law must ye not forsake.’” And 
Rabha said: “ The day of rain is even more important than the 
day on which the Law was given; for it says: ‘ My doctrine shall 
drop as the rain,’ and surely the thing upon which another is 





* The benediction on rain is transferred from here to Tract Berachoth, as the 
proper place. 





TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 13 


dependent, or to which another is compared, is more important 
than that other.” 

The same interpreters cite the following contradiction: It is 
written [Deut. xxxii. 2]: “My doctrine shall drop as the rain, 
my speech shall distil as the dew.” In the first he says “ rain,” 
and in the other “dew.” (It is said above that dew is always 
good, but with rain the case is different?) From this it is to be 
signified that if the scholar is a conscientious man, consider him 
as dew, which is always useful ; but if he is not, turn your neck to 
him * as we do to rain. 

We have learned: R. Banaha said: “ He who studies the Law 
for the honor of God, his knowledge becomes to him the elixir of 
life, as it is written [Proverbs, iii. 18]: ‘A tree of life is she to 
those that lay hold on her’; and it is alsowritten [ibid. 8]: ‘It 
will be healing to thy body’; while, further, it is said [ibid. viii. 
35]: ‘For he who findeth me, findeth life’; but he who studies 
the Law, not for the honor of God (but in order to injure others 
or for other purpose), his knowledge becomes to him a deadly 
poison.” As it is written in the passage just quoted, the term 
Yaaroph is to be interpreted as the term Vearphu [Deut, xxi. 4]: 
“And they shall dreak there the neck of the heifer in the valley.” 

R. Jeremiah said to R. Zera: “Let Master go and teach.” 
And he answered: “ My heart is weak, and I cannot.” “Then 
let Master relate some trifling thing from the Haggada,” said R. 
Jeremiah. And R. Zera spoke: “Thus said R. Johanan: ‘It is 
written [Deut. xx. 19]: “The man is a tree of the field.”’ Is 
then a man a tree of the field? The passage says previously : 
‘For of them mayest thou eat, and thou shalt not cut them 
down’; and further, it says [ibid. 20]: ‘Only those trees of which 
thou knowest that they are not fruit-trees, thou mayest destroy 
and cut down.’ And this implies that the man is compared to a 
tree, and that if thou knowest a man to be a scholar and a good 
man, thou shouldst enjoy his company and derive benefit from 
him ; but if he be a scholar but an evil man, thou shouldst avoid 
him and cut off thy intercourse with him.” 

R. Hama bar Hanina said: “It is written [Proverbs, xxvii. 
17]: ‘Iron is sharpened by iron,’ and this applies to two scholars 
who study together, when one sharpens the intellect of the other.” 





* The Hebrew term for this is arpehu, the term in the beginning of the passage 
quoted is yaaroph, the term for ‘‘ neck” in Hebrew is avoph ; hence the explanation 
according to Samuel Eidlis, which is more proper here than Rashi’s. 


14 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Rabba bar bar Hana said: Why were the words of the Law 
compared. to fire, as it is written [Jeremiah, xxiii. 29]: “Is not 
this my word like the fire? saith the Lord.” As fire cannot burn 
without having hold of an object, so the words of the Law cannot 
remain with one who is alone. 

R. Na’hman bar Itz’hak said: Why are the words of the Law 
compared to a tree, as it is written [Proverbs, iii. 18]: “A tree of 
life is shé to those that lay hold on her.’’ As a small piece of 
wood kindles a larger, so a lesser scholar brightens the wits of the 
greater by his queries, and this isas R. Hanina has said: “I have 
learned much from my teachers, more from my colleagues, and 
most of all from my disciples.” 

R. Hanina bar Papa cited a contradiction: “It is written 
[Isaiah, xxi. 14]: ‘Toward him that is thirsty they drzxg water’ ; 
and further, it is written [ibid. lv. 1]: ‘Every one of ye that 
thirsteth, come ye to the water’?” (This presents no difficulty.) 
If a man is a diligent disciple and cannot come to the master, the 
master should go to him; but if he is not a diligent disciple, the 
master need not go to him, but if he comes to the master he 
should be taught. 

R. Hanina bar Hama cited another contradiction: It is 
written [Proverbs, v. 16]: ‘‘So will thy springs overflow abroad ” ; 
and further, it is said [ibid. 17]: “They will be thy own only”? 
This means to say, that if a man is a thorough scholar his teach- 
ings should be allowed to spread abroad; but if not, they should 
be for him alone. 

R. Hanina bar Idi said: Why are the words of the Law com- 
pared to water, as it is written [Isaiah, xxi. 14]: “ Toward him 
that is thirsty they bring water”? Because as water leaves a 
higher place for a lower, so the words of the Law cannot be 
retained by one who does not deport himself in a lowly (humble) 
manner. 

R. Oshiya said: Why are the words of the Law compared to 
the following three beverages—water, wine, and milk? “To 
water,” as it’s written in the verse just quoted; to “wine and milk,” 
as it is written [Isaiah, lv. 1]: ‘ Yea, come, buy without money and 
without price wine and milk.” In order to teach us, that as those 
three beverages can best be kept in common utensils such as 
wooden or earthen vessels, so the Law can only be retained by 
those who are humble in their manner. As the daughter of the 
Czesar once said to R. Jehoshua b. Hananiah: “Alas for such 
handsome wisdom, which is in an ugly vessel”’ (it means that the 





TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 15 


rabbi was very homely). And he said to her: “In what does 
your father keep his best wine?’’ And she answered: “In 
earthen vessels.” And he rejoined: “Then what is the differ- 
ence between your father and a commoner?” And she asked: 
“Tn what, then, shall it be kept?”’” And hesaid: “ You, who are 
wealthy and mighty, ought to keep it in golden and silver ves- 
sels!’’ She then told her father, and he commanded that his 
wine should be kept in vessels of gold and silver. And it became 
sour. When the Cesar was informed of this, he asked his 
daughter: “Who told you that we should keep our wine in 
golden vessels?”’ And she named the above rabbi. He was 
sent for, and questioned as to the reason of his advice. And he 
rejoined: “This was only an answer to the question of the prin- 
cess.” “But are there not,” the Cesar said, “men who are 
handsome and nevertheless are very scholarly?” ‘ Believe me,” 
said the rabbi, “that if they would be homely, their wisdom 
would be greater still.” 

R. Hama bar Hanina said: The day of rain is of equal impor- 
tance with the day on which heaven and earth were created, as it 
is written [Isaiah, xlv. 8]: ‘‘ Drop down, ye heavens, from above 
and let the skies distil blessing; let the earth open, and let them 
all be fruitful of prosperity, and let righteousness spring up like- 
wise: I the Lord have created it.” And as it is said “created 
at’ and not “‘ created them,” it proves that rain is referred to; (and 
hence the day of rain is equally as important as the day of the 
creation of the heavens and earth). 

R. Oshiya said: The day of rain is so great that, even if a man 
be blessed with prosperity; the prosperity becomes more fruitful, 
as it is said in the verse quoted: ‘Let the earth open, and let 
them all be fruitfu! of prosperity.” 

R. Tanhum bar Hanilai said : “ Rain does not descend unless 
the sins of- Israel are forgiven, as it is written [Psalm Ixxxv. 2-3]: 
‘Thou hast been favorable, O Lord; unto thy land; thou hast 
brought back the captivity of Jacob. Thou hast forgiven the 
iniquity of thy people; thou hast covered over all their sin. 
Selah.’” Said Zeiri of Dehabath to Rabina: “ Ye learn this from 
the above passage. We, however, apply to this the following : 
[I Kings, viii. 34]: ‘Then hear thou in heaven, and forgive the 
sin,” etc. R.Tanhum the son of R. Hyya of the village Acco 
said: “ Rain is not withheld unless the enemies of Israel (mean- 
ing Israel itself) deserve to be destroyed, as it is written [Job, 
xxiv. 19]: ‘ Drought and heat speedily consume the snow-waters : 


16 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


so doth the grave those who have sinned.’”” Said Zeiri of De- 
habath to Rabina: “ Yelearn this from the above passage. We, 
however, apply to this the following [Deut. xi. 17]: ‘And he 
will shut up the heavens . . . and ye shall perish quickly.’” 

R. Simeon ben Pazi said: “ Rain is not withholden except 
from such as slander each other, as it is written [Proverbs, xxv. 
23]: ‘The north wind bringeth forth rain; so doth secret talking, 
angry countenances.’ ”’ 

R. Sala said in the name of R. Hamnuna: “ Rain is withholden 
only on account of the impudent, as it is written [Jerem. iii. 3]: 
‘And though the early showers were withholden, and the latter 
rain came not: yet hadst thou a forehead of an adulterous wife, 
thou refusedst to feel shame.’”’ 

R. Sala said again in the name of R. Hamnuna: “ The man 
who is impudent will finally stumble into idolatry.” And he 
derives it from the passage just quoted, “ Yet hadst thou a fore- 
head of an adulterous wife.” And R. Na’hman said: “ An impu- 
dent man must be considered as having already stumbled into 
idolatry ; for the passage does not say, ‘thou w/t havea fore- 
head,’ etc., but ‘thou hadst.’” 

Rabba bar Huna said: “An impudent man may be classed 
with the wicked, as it is written [Proverbs, xxi. 29]: ‘A wicked 
man showeth impudence in his face.’” And R. Na’hman bar 
Itz’hak said: “ He may even be hated, as it is written [Eccles. 
viii. 1]: ‘And the boldness of his face Yesuna (will be lessened)’ 
Do not read ‘ Yesuna’ (will be lessened) but ‘ Yisonei’ (may be 
hated).” : 

R. Joseph said: Rain is witholden only for abolishing the 
the Law, as it is written [Job, xxxvii. 21]: “ Yet men see not 
the light which is bright in the skies, when the wind hath passed 
along and purified them.” By Agh? is meant the Law, as it is 
’ written [Prov. vi. 23]: “For the commandment is a lamp, and 
: the law is light’; and bright, the disciples of R. Ishmael interpret 
thus: “Even when the sky was spotted with clouds, the wind 
of the law clears them away.” 

R. Ami said: Rain is withholden solely on account of the sin 
of robbery, as it is written [Job, xxxvi. 32]: “ His hands he cov- 
ereth with light.” By “his hands” is meant the hands of rob- 
bery, as it is written [Jonah, iii. 8]: “And from the violence 
which is in their hands”; and by “light” is meant rain, as it is 
written [Job, xxxvii. 11]: “ He scattereth the cloud of his light- 
ning.” 


TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 17 


R. Ami said again: It is written [Eccles. x. 10]: “If the iron 
be blunt and man do not whet the edge, then must he exert 
more strength ; but the advantage of making it properly sharp is 
wisdom,” which signifies, that if the heavens became closed as 
the “iron is blunt,” it was because of the persistent wickedness 
of the men who “did not whet the edge” (of righteousness). 
What is the remedy for the evil? Praying for mercy, as it is 
said: “Then must he exert more strength”; and so much the 
more will they be granted mercy if at the beginning their deeds 
were those of wisdom. 

Resh Lakish said: If thou shouldst see a scholar whose mind 
is blunt as iron, because of unsystematic study, the remedy for 
him is, that he should devote more time to systematic study in 
the colleges, as it is said: “‘ Then must he exert more strength.” 
And a better remedy yet is, if he arrange all he had hitherto 
learned in order, as Resh Lakish would arrange his studies forty 
times before entering into the presence of R. Johanan [deriving 
it from the forty days which Moses occupied in receiving the Law 
on Mount Sinai]. R. Ada bar A’hbah would arrange his studies 
twenty-four times before entering into the presence of Rabha 
[deriving it from the twenty-four books of the Scriptures. ] 

Rabha said: “If thou shouldst see a disciple whose mind is as 
blunt as iron because his teacher does not thoughtfully explain 
the teachings to him, the remedy for him is, to request his friends 
to intercede for him with the teacher in order that the explana- 
tions may be more lucid and especially if the disciple’s behavior is 
proper towards the teacher and others.” * 

R. Ami said again: It is written [Eccles. x. 11): “If the ser- 
pent do bite because no one uttered a charm, then hath the man 
that can use his tongue (in charming) no preference,” which 
signifies that if thou shouldst see a generation in whose time the 
heavens became firm as copper and would not give forth dew and 
rain, because there was no one to utter a silent prayer for rain, 
the remedy is to obtain someone who can pray silently for the 
removal of the curse. And if the one who is able will not pray, 
what benefit will he derive from it? hence it is more than 
probable that he will do so. If, however, he persist in refusing, 
the most pious of that generation should be appealed to. And 





* The above teachings of R. Ami, Resh Lakish, and Rabha are all based upon 
the one passage—Ecclesiastes, x. 10; but the interpretations of several of the words 
contained therein are so diversified that we have deemed it advisable merely to render 
their teachings alone, without reference to the literal text of the verse. 

2 


18 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


if he did pray and was answered, and because of that he becomes 
too proud, he brings down wrath upon the world. 

Rabha said: Two scholars who reside in one town and are 
not agreeable to each other in Halakha, they cause wrath and 
bring the same down as it is written [Job, xxxv. 33]. 

Resh Lakish said: It is written [Eccl. x. 11]: “If the serpent 
do bite because no one uttered a charm, then hath the man that 
can use his tongue (in charming) no preference.” In the future 
all the wild beasts will come to the serpent and question him 
thus: A lion presses and eats, the wolf tears and eats; but thou, 
what benefit dost thou derive from killing the creatures? And his 
answer will be: Do, then, the evil tongues derive any benefit ? 

Again R. Ami said: The prayer of a man is not answered 
unless he put his whole soul into it, as it is written [Lamenta- 
tions, iii. 41]: ‘“ Let us lift up our heart with our hands unto God 
in the heaven.” This is not so! For did not Samuel through 
an interpreter preach as follows: It is written [Psalms, Ixxviii. 
36 and 37]: “Nevertheless they prayed insincerely to him with 
their mouth, and with their tongue they lied unto him. For 
their heart was not firm with him, and with their tongue they 
lied unto him”; and further, it says [ibid. 38]: “ Still he, being 
merciful, forgave the iniquity.’”’ This presents no difficulty. If 
a man prays alone, he must put his whole soul into it; but if a 
congregation is engaged in prayer and one of the members does 
not happen to be as devout as he should, the prayer is neverthe- 
less heard. 

R. Ami said again: “Rain falls only for the sake of those 
who are truthful, as it is written [Psalms, lxxxv. 12]: ‘Truth will 
grow up out of the earth and righteousness will look down from 
heaven.’” And he said again: “Come and see how great are 
the men who have faith, and I know this from the story of the 
cat and the well; for if a man have faith in a cat and a well so 
much the firmer should his faith be in God.” * 





* The legend of the cat and the well is not to be found in the Talmud proper, but 
the Aruch and Rashi relate it as follows: A youth of a patrician family while stroll- 
ing through a forest chanced to meet a beautiful maiden with whom he fell violently 
in love. The maiden received his advances favorably ; and he plighted his troth to 
her, calling upon a well standing near by and upon a cat which at that moment rushed 
past them as witnesses of his undying affection. Returning to his home, the young 
man in the midst of festivities forgot about his adventure with the maid of the forest 
and became betrothed to another maiden of a prominent family. He married her 
and in due course the union was blessed with a child. Not long after the child was 
born, its nurse accidentally let it fall intoa well. Another child was born to them, 





Oe a iti in las 


TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 19 


R. Johanan said: ‘ He who justifies all his actions here below, 
is closely scrutinized by the Power above, as it is written [ Psalms, 
Ixxxv. 12]: ‘Truth will grow up out of the earth and righteous- 
ness will look down from heaven.’”’ R. Hyya bar Abin in the 
name of R. Huna adduces the same teaching from another 
passage [Psalms, xc. 11]: ‘‘ Which is like the fear of thee,” imply- 
ing that as a man endeavers to prove his fear of the Lord here 
below, so is he scrutinized as to his sincerity from above. Resh 
Lakish adduces this same teaching from the passage [Isaiah, 
Ixiv. 4]: ‘Thou acceptest him that rejoiceth and worketh 
righteousness, those that remember thee in thy ways: behold, 
thou wast wroth, for we had sinned on them continually; and 
can we thus be saved?” which implies that when we accept one 
who wishes to appear righteous before us, his sins are looked into 
from above and he is closely observed. 

R. Jehoshua ben Levi said: “ One who rejoiceth in his afflic- 
tion brings prosperity to the whole world, because the last two 
words of the above-cited verse are ‘Aulom Venosha,’ which 
should be interpreted, ‘the world will be helped.’ ”’ 





and one day, when the child was left alone for a moment, a wild cat carried it off and 
devoured it. Thus was retribution meted out to the youth who had violated his 


promise. 
In Vol. VI., p. 64, of the periodical Hakol (the Voice) we published in an article 
an explanation of the above passage in the Gemara, as follows: ‘‘It is entirely 


unreasonable to assume that one could believe in a cat or a well otherwise than as a 
means by which God would punish an iniquity, and therefore it is highly probable 
that the words "Huldah and Bor, meaning cat and we//, originally were intended for 
’Huldah and Dedorah, the prophetesses of the Scriptures, and that simply a Daled 
and a Heh were omitted in the manuscript. The Talmud generally treats prophetesses 
with but little consideration and regards their prophecy as of small value, for it says 
in Tract Megilla, p. 37, ‘Greatness is not seemly for women. Two prophetesses we 
had and one was called Deborah (a bee) and the other ’Huldah (a cat).’ It then con- 
tinues to criticise their behavior in general; but still the King Yoshiyahu (Josiah) 
believed in ’Huldah the prophetess (see II Kings, xxii. 13 to 20) and Barak the son 
of Abino’am believed in Deborah (see Judges, iv. 8). Thus it would be far more 
reasonable to explain the above passage in the Gemara, not with reference to the cat 
and the well, but rather as referring to Deborah and ’Huldah, and say: If a man 
have faith in the prophetesses ’Huldah and Deborah, he should be so much the firmer 
in his faith in God.” This explanation met with the approval of a number of the 
most orthodox scholars, but the well-known Rev. Dr. M. Mielziner, in a letter 
addressed to us, called our attention to the fact ‘‘ that, were it so, Deborah would 
stand before ’Huldah in the above passage, having preceded ’Huldah in the chrono- 
logical order of the Scriptures,” In Tract Megilla Deborah really does precede 
"Huldah, but we forstalled this query in that article by stating that in all probability 
"Huldah was mentioned first in the above passage from the fact that a King (Josiah) 
believed in her, while a commoner (Barak) was the man who placed his faith in the 
prophetess Deborah. 


20 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Resh Lakish said: It is written [Deut. xi. 17]: “ And he will 
shut up the heaven.” When the heaven is shut up from giving 
rain, it is compared to a woman lying-in, who has all the pain of 
travail but cannot bear the child; and this is what Resh Lakish 
said in the name of Bar Qappara: The expression “shut up” is 
said about rain, as quoted above, and the same expression is used 
of a woman [Gen. xx. 17]: “ For the Lord had fast closed up * 
every womb.” It is said “birth” of a woman [ibid. xxx. 23]: 
“ And she conceived, and bore a son’’; and the same expression 
is used for rain [Isaiah, lv. 10]: “ And render it fruitful,” + etc. 
It is said “ visiting ” of a woman [Gen. xxi. 1]: “ And the Lord 
visited Sarah’; and the same expression is used for rain [ Psalms, 
Ixv. 10]: “Thou hast visited ¢ the earth and waterest her abun- 
dantly; thou greatly enrichest her; the brook of God is full of 
water.” 

In the days of R. Samuel ben Na’hmeni there were two evils 
in the land—famine and pestilence—and the sages said: What 
shall we pray for? We must not pray for two things, and we do not 
know which to pray for—the cessation of famine or of pestilence. 
Let us pray, then, for the abatement of the pestilence and we 
shall suffer with the famine. Said R. Samuel ben Na’hmeni to 
them : “ Nay, let us pray for relief of the famine; for if the Merci- 
ful One will give bread he will give it to the living, surely not 
to the dead, and thus the pestilence will cease of itself, as it is 
written [Psalms, cxlv. 16]: ‘Thou openest thy hand and satisfiest 
the desire of every Zving thing.’’’ Whence do we know that two 
things must not be prayed for? From the passage [Ezra, viii. 
23]: “So we fasted and besought our God for this.” Whence 
we see that if they besought God for ¢hzs, there must have been 
something else besides, and only one thing was prayed for. 

In the days of R. Zera the government issued proclamations 
detrimental to the interests of the Jews, and remarked that no 
fast-days were to be kept. Said R. Zera to the people: “ Let us 
take a fast-day upon ourselves zow, and when the government 
shall have rescinded its decree, we will then fast.” And they 
asked him: “ Whence dost thou know that this would be bene- 
ficial?’”’ And he answered: “I know it, because it is written 
[Daniel, x. 12]: ‘And he said unto me: Fear not, Daniel! for 





* The Hebrew term for both is Ofzar. 

+ The Hebrew term for both is Hold, 

¢ Leeser translates in the first visited, and in the second thought of. The Hebrew 
term, however, for both is Pokad, 


TRACT TAANITH (FASTING), 21 


from the first day that thou didst set thy heart to obtain under- 
standing, and to fast before thy God, were thy words heard: and 
I am come in consequence of thy words.’”’ 

R. Itz’hak said: “‘ Even if the years be years of drought, as were 
the days of Elijah, and rain fall on the eve of Sabbaths, it cannot 
be considered as a sign of blessing.” Again, R. Itz’hak said: 
“The day of rain is such a blessed day, that even the coin in one’s 
pocket is blessed; for it is written [Deut. xxviii. 12]: ‘To give 
the rain of thy land in its season, and to bless all the work of thy 
hand.’”’ * 

R. Johanan said: “ Rain is not withholden only on account of 
such men as promise publicly to give charity and then do not 
carry out their promise, as it is written [Proverbs, xxv. 14]: ‘ Like 
clouds and wind without rain, so isa man that vaunteth falsely of 
a gift.” 

R. Johanan said again: “ The passage ‘thou shalt truly tithe’ 
signifies that a man should give tithes in order that he may him- 
self become rich.t R. Johanan met a child of Resh Lakish (after 
the latter’s demise) and he asked him: “ How far along art thou 
in thy studies?’’ And the child answered: “I am at the passage 
[Deut. xiv. 22]: ‘Thou shalt truly tithe,’ and then asked, 
“What does that passage mean?’’ R. Johanan replied: “It 
means: Give tithe in order that thou mayest become rich.” The 
child then said: “Whence dost thou know this?”’ And he re- 
plied: “Go and try it, and see if it is not so.” But the child 
rejoined: “ But is it then allowed to try God—is it not written 
[Deut. vi. 16]: ‘Ye shall not tempt the Lord your God.’”” And 
R. Johanan said: “Thus said R. Hosea: ‘In all things except 
tithes, for it is said [ Malachi, iii. 10]: “ Bring ye all the tithes into 
the storehouse, that there may be provision in my house, and 
prove me but herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open 
for you the windows of heaven, and pour out for you a blessing, 
until it be more than enough.”’” Replied the child: “If I had 
already come to that verse (in my studies) I would not have 
needed thee nor Hosea thy rabbi.” 

Once more R. Johanan met the child of Resh Lakish, learning 
the passage [Proverbs, xix. 3]: “ The folly of man perverteth his 
way and against the Lord will his heart rage.”” R. Johanan sat 





* The other sayings of the same authority are transferred to tract Baba Metziya 
as the proper place, and some of them are repeated there. 
+ Vide Tract Sabbath, p. 252. 


22 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


and pondered, saying: “Is there then anything written in the 
Hagiographa, of which there should not even be a hint in the 
Pentateuch?” Said the child of Resh Lakish to him: “ Is there 
not a hint of this in the Pentateuch? Is it not written [Genesis, 
xlii. 28]: ‘And their heart failed them and they were afraid, say- 
ing one unto another, What is this that God hath done unto 
us’?” (and was it not their own folly in selling their brother, 
that brought the sons of Jacob into their position)? R. Johanan 
(who had very large eyebrows—so large, in fact, that he had to 
lift them with silver pincers before he could see well) raised his eyes 
and wished to gaze at the child, when the mother of the child 
immediately took him away, saying: “‘Go away from him, or he 
may do unto thee what he did unto thy father.”” (What R. Joha- 
nan did to Resh Lakish is explained in Tract Baba Metziya.) 

R. Johanan said: Rain may descend even for the sake of the 
merits of one man, but general prosperity comes only for the 
sake of the public, as it is written [Deut. xxviii. 12]: “The Lord 
will open unto thee his good treasure, the heaven, to give rain,” 
etc.; and it is written [Exod. xvi. 4]: “I will rain for you bread 
from heaven.” 

An objection was raised: R. Jose the son of R. Jehudah said: 
Three good leaders were given to Israel, and they are: Moses, 
Aaron, and Miriam; and three good gifts were given through 
them, namely: the well of water which the Israelites had along 
with them in the desert was given them for the sake of Miriam ; 
the pillar of cloud which led them by day was given them on 
account of Aaron, and the Manna was given them for Moses’ 
sake. When Miriam died, the well vanished, as it is written 
[Numbers, xxi. 1]: “ Miriam died there, and was buried there” ; 
and immediately afterwards it says: “And there was no water 
for the congregation.” Still, the well was again given to the 
children of Israel through the prayers of Moses and Aaron. 

When Aaron died, the pillar of cloud left.* Still, both the 
well and the pillar of cloud were returned for the sake of Moses; 
but when Moses died, everything vanished, as it is written [Zech- 
ariah, xi. 8]: ‘‘ And I removed the three shepherds in one month.” 
Did then Moses, Aaron, and Miriam die in the same month? 
Did not Moses die in Adar, Aaron in Abh, and Miriam in Nissan ? 
Therefore infer from that passage that the three gifts which were 
given to Israel vanished in the same month that Moses died. 





7 


* Vide Tract Rosh-Hashana, p. 3. 


a 


TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 23 


Does all this not prove that the Manna was given solely on 
Moses’ account? Nay; Moses prayed for the whole congrega- 
tion, and thus he was equal to the whole congregation. 

R. Huna bar Manoah, R. Samuel bar Idi, and R. Hyya of 
Vastania were disciples of Rabha. When Rabha died, they came 
to R. Papa. When R. Papa would say something that was not 
quite pleasing to them, they would wink at one another; and he 
became downhearted. At one time in a dream the passage just 
quoted: “ And I removed the three shepherds in one month,” 
was read to him. On the morrow before they left him he blessed 
the three disciples, saying: “The rabbis may go in peace” 
(not wishing that any harm might befall them). 

R. Shimi bar Ashi was also a visitor at the college of R. Papa, 
and would put so many questions to him that it happened at 
times that R. Papa could not answer them. One day R. Shimi 
noticed R. Papa, who was reciting the prayer at which the face 
was generally hidden in the arm, and overheard him pray : “ May 
the Merciful One save me from the disgrace which I suffer at the 
hands of that Shimi.’’ So at that time he resolved to be silent 
and not trouble R. Papa any more with questions. 

We have learned in a Boraitha: R. Eliezer said: The whole 
world drinks of the water of the ocean, as it is written [Gen. ii. 
6]: “ But there went up a mist from the earth and watered the 
whole face of the ground.” Said R. Jehoshua to him: ‘“ How 
can that be? Are not the waters of the ocean salty?”’ And he 
replied : “ They become sweet in the mist (when evaporating).” 
R. Jehoshua, however, says: The whole world drinks of the 
waters above, as it is written [Deut. xi. 11]: “ From the rain of 
heaven doth it drink water.’”’ Thus the significance of the first- 
quoted verse is, that the mists rise unto heaven, open their mouths 
like bags, and drinkin the water, as it is written [Job, xxxvi. 27]: 
“For he taketh away drops of water, which are purified into rain 
in the mist ” ; and the mist is porous like a sieve, through which 
the rain descends to the earth, as it is written [II Samuel, xxii. 
12]: “ Heavy masses of water, thick clouds of the skies,” and the 
space from one drop to another is only the width of a hair. All 
this teaches us that the day of rain is as great as the day of the 
creation of heaven and earth. 

The rabbis taught: The land of Israel was created first of all 
and the rest of the world afterwards, as it is written [Proverbs, 
viii. 26]: “While as yet he had not made the land and open 
fields,’ and the land of Israel was already made. 


24 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


The land of Israel is watered by the Lord himself, while the 
rest of the world is watered by a messenger, as it is written [Job, 
v. 10]: “ Who giveth rain upon the surface of the earth, and 
sendeth out waters over the face of the fields.” 

The land of Israel is watered by rain, while the rest of the 
world is watered by the residue remaining in the clouds, and this 
is inferred from the same passage [Job, v. 10], which also implies 
that the land of Israel is watered before the rest of the world. 

R. Jehoshua ben Levi, however, said that the whole world is 
watered with the residue remaining after the garden of Eden had 
been watered, as it is written [Gen. ii. Io]: “And a river went 
out of Eden to water the garden’’; and ina Boraitha we have 
learned that with the residue of water left over from a quantity 
necessary to water a Kur of land, a Tharqabh (one-sixtieth of a 
Kur) of land can be watered. 

The rabbis taught: Egypt measures four hundred square 
Parsah, and that is only one-sixtieth of Mesopotamia; Meso- 
patamia is a sixtieth of the whole earth; the earth is one-sixtieth 
of the garden of Eden; the garden is one-sixtieth of Eden, and 
Eden is in turn only one-sixtieth of Gehenna. Thus it follows 
that the whole world is but a lid to the pot. Others say again 
that Gehenna is immeasurable, while still others maintain that 
Eden is immeasurable. 

R. Oshiya said: “It is written [Jeremiah, li. 13]: ‘O thou 
that dwellest upon many waters, great in treasures,’ etc., which 
implies that the reason why Babylon is great in treasures is be- 
cause it dwelleth upon many waters.’”’ Rabh said: “ Rich indeed 
is Babylon, that reapeth her grain without rain.” Abayi said: 
“T know of a tradition which tells me that swampy ground is 
better than dry.” * 

MISHNA: On the third of Mar-Cheshvan prayers for rain 
should be said; but according to Rabban Gamaliel, on the sev- 
enth of the same month—namely, fifteen days after the Feast of 
Tabernacles—in order to give the last of the Israelites (returning 
to their homes from the city of Jerusalem, where they had been 
during the festivals) an opportunity to reach the River Euphrates 
(the northern boundary line of Palestine). 

GEMARA: Said R. Elazar: “ The Halakha prevails accord- 
ing to R. Gamaliel.” We have learned in a Boraitha: Hananiah 
said: “In exile, prayers for rain should be said sixty days after 





* This passage is in accordance with the explanation of the Aruch, 


TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 25 


the equinox of Tishri’’; and Huna bar Hyya said in the name 
of Samuel that the Halakha prevails according to Hananiah. 

The schoolmen propounded a question: ‘What about the 
sixtieth day after the equinox? Is it included in the sixty days, 
or is it counted as one of the days on which the prayers are already 
to be recited?” Said R. Papa: “ The Halakha prevails: The 
sixtieth is considered as the day after the sixty days.” 

MISHNA: If the seventeenth of Mar-Cheshvan have passed 
without the rain having yet descended, private individuals com- 
mence to keep three fast-days. As soon as it becomes dark on 
the fast-days, however, it is allowed to eat and to drink; and on 
the fast-days themselves it is permitted to work, to bathe, to 
anoint the body, to wear shoes, and to perform the duty of 
cohabitation. 

If the new moon of Kislev has arrived without rain having 
yet descended, the supreme court shall order three public and 
general fast-days. As soon as it becomes dark on those fast-days, 
however, it is lawful to eat and drink; and on the fast-days them- 
selves it is permissible to work, to bathe, to anoint the body, to 
wear shoes, and to perform the duty of cohabitation. 

GEMARA: Who are meant by private individuals (in this 
Mishna)? Said R. Huna: “ The rabbis.” We have learned in a 
Boraitha that if private individuals commenced to keep the fast- 
days, they should fast on Monday, Thursday, and the following 
Monday ; and they may interrupt their fast-days if a Monday or 
a Thursday fall on the day of the new moon or on such days as 
are mentioned in the Roll of Fasts. 

The rabbis taught : “A man should not say: ‘I am too young 
a scholar to be counted in among the rabbis, and thus be included 
in the meaning of the term “ private individuals,” hence I need 
not keep the fast-days’; but every young scholar should consider 
himself a rabbi for that purpose.” 

Who is called a private individual? One who is worthy of 
being elected Parnass (president) of the congregation. And who 
is called a young scholar? One who is asked concerning passages 
in his studies even in Tract Kalah and can make satisfactory 
answer. 

The rabbis taught: Not every one who would count himself 
among the private individuals may do so, and not every one who 
would count himself among the young scholars may do so. Such 
is the dictum of R. Simeon ben Elazar. Rabban Simeon ben 
Gamaliel, however, said: “ This only applies to those who do so 


26 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


for the glory thereof, but not to such as only incur an inconve- 
nience by so doing; and the latter, when counting themselves 
among such persons, should be favorably remembered therefor.” 

The rabbis taught : One who fasted on account of some trou- 
ble, or for the recovery of a sick person, even though the trouble 
had passed away during the day of his fasting, or the sick person 
had recovered during that day, should nevertheless continue to 
fast until nightfall. One whocame from a place where there was 
no fast-day to a place where there was a fast-day must keep that 
fast-day ; but if a man came from a place where there was fasting 
to a place where there was none, he must nevertheless quietly 
end his fast. If he forgot that the day was a fast-day, and ate 
and drank, he should not at least make it apparent to others, and 
should also not participate in any pleasures on that day, as it is 
written [Gen. xlii. 1]: ‘‘ Why do ye look at one another?” which 
signifies, that Jacob said to his sons: Why do ye make it appear 
that ye are satisfied when the other races of Esau and Ishmael 
around you are starving? 

R. Jehudah said in the name of R. Hyya: One who travels 
on the road should not eat much—no more, in fact, than is eaten 
in a year of famine. Why so? Here in Babylon they say: 
“In order that the stomach be not filled and thus make walking 
difficult’; but in Palestine they say: “In order that the supply 
of food which is carried along be not too quickly exhausted.” 
The difference in the two opinions is therefore concerning a man 
on board of a ship. There is fear of the supply of food being 
exhausted, but not that walking will be hindered. On the other 
hand, the difference of opinion also concerns a man travelling from 
village to village. There is no fear of the supply of food becom- 
ing exhausted, but there is fear of overloading the stomach and 
thus impeding further progress. 

R. Papa when travelling would eat a small loaf after traversing 
a Parsah, because he thought that eating too much would be 
injurious to the stomach. 

R. Jehudah said in the name of Rabh: A man who has plenty 
in years of famine and still eats sparingly because others have but 
a small supply will be saved from sudden death, as it is written 
[Job, v. 20]: “In famine he redeemeth thee from death.” Why 
is it said “in famine,” it should say “from famine he redeemeth 
thee’? Therefore the passage means to imply that because one 
ate sparingly in times of famine, he will be redeemed from sudden 
death. 


Vibe cared: 


TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 27 


Resh Lakish said: “ A man should not cohabit with his wife 
in years of famine, as it is written [Gen. xli. 50]: ‘And unto 
Joseph were born two sons defore the years of famine came.’”’ 
A Boraitha, however, teaches that a man who is childless may do 


‘so even in times of famine. 


The rabbis taught : When Israelites are in trouble and one of 
them leaves them for the purpose of avoiding the trouble, the two 
angels who accompany each man lay their hands upon his head 
and say: “ The man who secludes himself from the community 
which is in distress shall not see the prosperity of the com- 
munity.” Therefore a man should share the common distress of 
the community, as we see in the case of Moses, who always 
shared the troubles of the congregation, as it is written [Exod. 
xvii. 12]: “ But when the hands of Moses became heavy, they 
took a stone, and put it under him, and he sat thereon.” Did 
not Moses possess a pillow or bolster upon which he could have 
sate down? Yea; but Moses said thus: “ Because the com- 
munity is in distress I shall not use a pillow, but sit on a stone 
and share their woes.” Thus everyone who shares the misery of 
the community shall also see the prosperity, and lest a man say: 
“Who will testify that I took no part in the woe of the com- 
munity?” he should know that the stones and beams of his 
house will bear testimony to the fact, as it is written [Habakkuk, 
ii. 11]: “ For the stone will cry out of the wall, and the beam 
out of the woodwork will answer it.” The disciples of R. Shila 
say, that the two angels who accompany a man will testify 
against him, as it is written [Psalms, xci. 11]: ‘“ For his angels 
will be given charge concerning thee.” R.’Hidka said: “The 
soul of man will testify against him,” as it is written [Micah, vii. 
4]: “From her that lieth in thy bosom guard the doors of thy 
mouth.” Others say that the members of a man’s body will 
testify against him, as it is written [Isaiah, xliii. 10]: “Ye are 
my witnesses, saith the Lord.” 

It is written [Deut. xxxii. 4]: “The God of truth, and with- 
out iniquity.” By the “God of truth” is meant, that as retri- 
bution is meted out above to the wicked for every transgression 
which they commit, so are the righteous also held to account in 
this world for every transgression committed; and as the right- 
eous are rewarded in the world to come for every little good act, 
so are the wicked rewarded in this world for every fulfilment of a 
religious duty, be it ever so insignificant. It says further [ibid.]: 
“Just and upright is He.” Infer therefrom that when a man 


28 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


comes into the world beyond, all his deeds are laid before him in 
detail, and he is told where and on what day he committed them. 
The man then answers: “ Yea, I did so’”’; and he is told to sub- 
- scribe his name, which he does, as it is written [Job, xxxvii. 7]: 
“ He sealeth it on the hand of every man.’’ And not alone this, 
but the man also exclaims: “I have been justly judged,” as it is 
said [Psalms, li. 6]: “In order that thou mightest be righteous 
when thou speakest, be justified when thou judgest.” 

Samuel said: “A man who fasteth is called a sinner.” R. 
Shesheth said: “If a young scholar sitteth and fasteth, may a 
dog eat his meal.’’ Said R. Jeremiah bar Abba: “In the com- 
munity in Babylon there is no fast-day except the gth of Abh”’; 
and in the name of Resh Lakish he said: “It is not lawful for a 
scholar to fast, because by fasting he diminishes the work in the 
heavenly cause.” 

“As soon as tt becomes dark,” etc. R. Zera said in the name of 
R. Huna: “If an individual took it upon himself to fast the next 
day, even if he had eaten and drunk the entire night, he may on 
the morrow recite the fasting-prayer in the Min’hah (afternoon 
prayer). If a man, however, fasted a day and a night, he must 
not on the following morning recite the fasting-prayer.” Asked 
R. Joseph: “ What does R. Huna hold? That fasting at night is 
not considered and for that reason the fasting-prayer must not be 
recited on the following morning, or that fasting at night is con- 
sidered the same as fasting for a few hours, but for fasting of the 
latter kind no prayer should be said?’’ Abayi answered: “R. 
Huna holds, that fasting at night is considered as fasting for a 
few hours, and for such a fast the prayer may be said; but the 
reason that he disallows the fasting-prayer on the morning follow- 
ing the night is because the man originally intended to fast only 
during the day and did not take upon himself previously to fast 
the night through also.” 

Said R. Hisda: “A fast of hours is considered only if the man 
had not tasted food until night.” Said Abayi: “ This would not 
be a fast of hours! it would be a regular fast-day?” R. Hisda 
means to say that if a man had not eaten before noon through 
lack of time, and then resolved to fast the remaining half of the 
day so as to have a fast-day to his credit—although he had only 
taken it upon himself to fast a half of a day, still it is considered 
as a regular fast-day. 

R. Hisda said again: “A fast-day which was not kept until 
sunset cannot be called a fast-day.” An objection was made: 


TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). - 29 


We have learned in a Mishna: “ The priests who had the weekly 
watch of the Temple fasted, but not the whole day.” (This 
presents no difficulty.) In that case the men of the watch did 
not intend to fast, but merely to share the trouble of the rest of 
the community. 

Samuel said: “A man who had fasted without having previ- 
ously taken it upon himself to do so is not considered to have 
fasted at all.’”’ But what if a man did fast without having previ- 
ously resolved to do so? Said Rabba bar Shila: “That is con- 
sidered the same as inflating a bag with air.’ When must a man 
resolve to fast? Said Rabh: “On the preceding day during the 
time of the afternoon-prayer.” And Samuel said: “On the pre- 
ceding day at the afternoon-prayer.”’ 

Said R. Joseph: “It seems to me that the opinion of Samuel 
is correct.” 

The rabbis taught : “ Until what time may a man eat on the 
night preceding a fast-day?” ‘Until the advent of the morning 
star.” Such is the dictum of Rabbi; but R. Eliezer bar R. 
Simeon said: “Until the cock crows.” Said Rabha: “This 
applies to one who had not slept ; but if he had once retired and 
slept, he must not eat at all.”’ 

Abayi objected: “ Did we not learn that if the man slept and 
arose again, he may eat?” That teaching does not mean if the 
man had slept, but had only slumbered. 

R. Jehudah said in the name of Rabh: “A man, after taking 
it upon himself to fast on a certain day, may postpone that day 
and fast on another day; and,” continued R. Jehudah, “ when I 
told this to Samuel, he said: ‘This is self-evident, for cannot a 
man vow to do a certain thing and postpone it to some other 
time?’”’ 

R. Jehoshua the son of R. Idi was a guest of R. Assi; anda 
calf, the third of its mother, was prepared for him. And they 
said to him: “Let Master partake of something.” Whereupon 
he replied : “I am fasting this day.” And they rejoined: “Why 
not postpone this fast-day? Does not Master hold with R. 
Jehudah’s decree in the name of Rabh, that a fast-day may be 
postponed?” And he said: “ This is a fast-day tome on account 
of a dream, and Rabba bar Mahassia in the name of R. Hama bar 
Guria, quoting Rabh, said: ‘A fast-day is to a bad dream what 
fire is to flax’; and R. Hisda said that the fast-day should be 
kept only on the same day, and R. Joseph said that even on 
Sabbath such a fast should be kept, and for the violation of the 


30 ; THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Sabbath caused thereby he should keep an additional fast-day 
later on.” 

MISHNA: If these (three fast-days) have passed without 
their prayers having been favorably answered, the supreme 
court shall decree three more public and general fasts; on the 
nights preceding these it is not permitted to eat or drink, and 
on the fast-days it is prohibited to work, to bathe, to anoint the 
body, to wear shoes or to perform the duty of cohabitation, and 
the public bathing places are to be closed. Should even these 
fast-days have passed without their prayers having been favor- 
ably answered, then shall the Beth Din decree seven more fast- 
days, which altogether will make thirteen public and general 
fasts. These last seven fast-days differ from the preceding six, 
in that on them the alarm is sounded; the shops remain closed, 
excepting that on Mondays, towards evening, the shop-shutters 
(of the dealers in articles of food) may be loosely fastened (z.¢., not 
entirely closed, but in a slanting position), and on Thursday they 
may be taken off entirely in honor of the Sabbath. 

Should even these seven fast-days have passed without a 
favorable answer to the prayers, the people are to avoid and 
withdraw from engaging in any joyous occupation, and also to 
diminish their business; from the erection of buildings and from 
the planting of pleasure-gardens; from betrothals, weddings, and 
mutual greetings, like men who are rebuked by the Omnipotent ; 
(pious) private individuals recommence fasting till the end of 
the month of Nissan. If Nissan had passed and then rain de- 
scended, it must be considered a curse, for it is written [I Sam- 
uel, xii. 17]: “Is it not wheat harvest to-day?” etc. 

GEMARA: It would be right to prohibit bathing, anointing 
the body, etc., on the fast-day, because those things are luxuries ; 
but why should working be prohibited? Surely working cannot 
be considered a luxury! Said R. Hisda in the name of R. Jere- 
miah bar Abba: It is written [Joel, i. 14]: ‘“‘Sanctify ye a fast, 
proclaim a solemn assembly, gather the elders,” etc. Thus we 
see that it says, “ Proclaim a solemn assembly”; and as certain 
festivals on which no work may be done are also called “ assem- 
bly ” (Atzereth), it follows that no work may be done on a fast- 
day also. We might assume then that, as on those other festivals 
no work may be done from the time of dusk on the preceding 
eve, such should also be the case with these fast-days. Said R. 
Zera: It was explained by R. Jeremiah bar Abba that as it is 
written, ‘Gather the elders,” this might be compared to them; 


TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 31 


and as the elders assemble only during the day, so work should 
not be done only during the day. If that be so, then let it be 
probibited to work only from midday on; for the elders generally 
assemble about midday. Said R. Shesha the son of R. Idi: 
This bears out the opinion of R. Huna, who said that in 
olden times the assemblies of elders would take place from 
the morning on. 

What would the elders do when they assembled in the morn- 
ing? Said Abayi: From morn until midday they would occupy 
themselves with municipal affairs; and the first part of the after- 
noon would be consumed in the reading of the scrolls and of the 
Haphthorah, while the other part would be devoted to the recital 
of prayers, as it is written [Nehemiah, ix. 3]: “ And they stood 
up in their standing-place, and read in the book of the law of 
the Lord their God the fourth part of the day; and another 
fourth part they made confession, and prostrated themselves 
before the Lord their God.” Perhaps the contrary was the case ; 
2.¢., they read the Law and prayed in the forenoon and occupied 
themselves with the municipal affairs in the afternoon? This 
would not be consistent; for it is written [Ezra, ix. 4]: “And 
then assembled themselves unto me every one that trembled at 
the words of the God of Israel, because of the trespass of the 
exiles: and I sat astounded until the evening sacrifice; [ibid. 5] 
And at the evening sacrifice I rose up from my fasting, and 
while rending my garment and my mantle, I knelt down upon 
my knees, and spread out my hands unto the Lord my God.” 

Raphram bar Papa said in the name of R. Hisda: “ On days 
when one is fasting on account of a mournful occurrence, as the 
gth of Abh, or when is mourning the loss of a near relative, bath- 
ing in either cold or warm water is prohibited ; but where bathing 
is not allowed as a luxury, as on ordinary communal fast-days, 
warm water must not be used but cold water may be.” Said R. 
Idi bar Abin: “ This we have learned also in our Mishna, for it 
says ‘that the bathing places are closed,’ which signifies that 
bathing in warm water is prohibited.” Said Abayi to him: 
‘“What proof is that? If then cold water was prohibited, would 
the Mishna say that all rivers and lakes should be drained or 
stopped up?” And R. Shesha the son of R. Idi replied: “ My 
father meant to say that the following was the difficulty in the 
Mishna: It says that bathing is not allowed, why then should it 
add that the bathing places were closed? Therefore the Mishna 
evidently meant to imply that the bathing places were closed in 


32 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


order to prevent the use of warm water, but cold water may be 
used.” 

Where should the fasting-prayer be mentioned? R. Jehudah 
led his son R. Itz’hak to the desk, and the latter proclaimed : 
“Tf an individual takes it upon himself to fast, he must recite 
the fasting-prayer and insert it among the eighteen benedictions, 
between the benediction of redemption and healing.” 

R. Itz’hak (of a later generation) opposed this: May, then, an 
individual say an additional benediction? Therefore, according 
to his opinion, he should say it in the prayer commencing: 
“ Hear our voice, O Lord,” etc. And so also said R. Shesheth. 
What is the final decision? Said R. Samuel bar Sassartai, and 
so also said R. Hyya bar Ashi in the name of Rabh: “ It should 
be said between the benedictions of redemption and healing.” 
R. Ashi, however, said in the name of R. Janai the son of Ish- 
mael: “In the prayer commencing, ‘ Hear our voice,’”’ etc. And 
thus the Halakha prevails. — 

We have learned in one Boraitha that pregnant women and 
those suckling infants should fast only during the first fast-days 
ordained by the community, but not during the subsequent fast- 
days. In another Boraitha we have learned that they should fast 
in the last fast-days, but not in the first ; and in a third Boraitha 
we have learned that they should fast neither in the first nor in 
the last. Said R. Ashi: Hold firm to the middle Boraitha and 
the others will be readily explained (z.e., the first Boraitha means 
to say that they should fast on the three days between the first 
three days and the last seven, but not on the last seven days; the 
second Boraitha calls the three middle days the last because they 
were preceded by three others, hence it says that they should fast 
only on the last three days, z.e., the three days mentioned above; 
and the last Boraitha means to say that they need not fast on 
the first three days or on the last seven, but only on the three 
middle—thus all three Boraithoth mean one and the same thing). 

“ The alarm is sounded.” Wherewith was the alarm sounded? 
Said R. Jehudah: “ With the cornets.” And R. Jehudah the 
son of R. Samuel bar Shilas, quoting Rabh, said: “ With the 
shout, ‘Answer us, O Lord!’” All agree that where cornets are 
used it is referred to as “‘ sounding an alarm,” but they differ con- 
cerning the prayer, “ Answer us, O Lord!” One says that that 
is also called sounding the alarm, while the other says that it is 
not. He who says that the alarm was sounded by reciting the 
prayer mentioned, also admits that the cornets were used; but 


TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). - 33 


the one who says that the cornets were blown, does not hold that 
the prayer was also said. 

Did we not learn in a Boraitha that on account of other kinds 
of plagues, such as the itch, locusts, flies, wasps and gnats, and 
snakes the alarm, was not sounded, but the prayers were merely 
shouted ; and as shouting signifies that the prayer, “‘ Answer us,” 
was merely said, it must be assumed that where it says that the 
alarm was sounded it means that the alarm was sounded with 
cornets? This constitutes a difference of opinion among Tanaim, 
as we learn in a subsequent Mishna (Chap. III. of this Tract), 
which says: “For the following calamities an alarm is to be 
sounded even on Sabbath,” etc.; and as on the Sabbath it is not 
permitted to sound an alarm with cornets, we must assume that 
the prayer, “ Answer us,” etc., is also called an alarm. Such is 
the conclusion. 

In the days of R. Jehudah the Third there was a calamity. 
He ordained thirteen fast-days, but no favorable answer was 
received. He accordingly desired to ordain more fast-days; but 
R. Ami said to him: “ It was said that the community must not 
be troubled to too great an extent.” Said R. Abba, the son of 
R. Hyya bar Abba: “ R. Ami said that from a selfish motive (z.e., 
he did not care to fast any more), for my father said in the name 
of R. Johanan that only when rain is withholden thirteen fast- 
days should be kept, and no more; but on account of other 
calamities the people should fast until their prayers are answered, 
and thus we have also learned in a Boraitha. 

The inhabitants of Nineveh sent a query to Rabbi: “ Should 
we, whose soil is unusually dry and in need of rain already in the 
month of Tamuz (June—July) be considered as a community and 
when praying for rain insert the prayer in the benediction of 
years, or should we be regarded as individuals and insert the 
prayer in that commencing, ‘ Hear us, O Lord!’” He answered 
them: “Ye are regarded as individuals and must insert the 
prayer for rain in that commencing, ‘ Hear us, O Lord.’” 

An objection was raised from the following Boraitha: R. 
Jehudah said: “All this applied to the time when the Israel- 
ites were in their own land and Palestine was the principal place, 
but in the present time the prayers are said according to the 
place, time, and year?”’ And he answered him: Thou askest 
concerning a contradiction of Rabbi toa Boraitha? Rabbi is a 
Tana, and consequently may have his own opinion and differ 
with the teaching of a Boraitha. How does the Halakha prevail, 

3 


34 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


however? R. Na’hman said: “The prayer for rain must be 
inserted in the benediction of the years,” and R. Shesheth said: 
“Tt must be inserted in ‘hear our voice,’”’ etc. And the Halakha 
prevails according to R. Shesheth. 

“ But on Thursday they may be taken off entirely,” etc. We 
have learned in a Boraitha: On Monday towards evening, the 
shop-shutters were only partly closed; on the Thursday they 
were entirely opened in honor of the Sabbath; but if there were 
two doors to the shop, one of them could be opened even on 
Monday; and if there was a bench against the door, it was 
allowed to open the door on Monday as usual. 

“From the erection of buildings and from the planting of 
pleasure-gardens,” etc. We have learned in a Boraitha: What 
is called a building of pleasure? A house which was built espe- 
cially for a son about to be married; and what is meant by a 
pleasure-garden? A bower for princes. 

“ And mutual greetings.” The rabbis taught: The scholars 
would not greet each other at all; but the common people when 
greeting the scholars would be answered very feebly and with a 
faint nod. Amongst themselves the scholars would sit wrapped 
in their cloaks, silent and morose, the same as mourners and as 
men who were rebuked by the Omnipotent, until the Lord would 
have mercy upon them. 

R. Elazar said: A prominent man must not clothe himself in 
sackcloth unless he knows positively that his prayers will be 
answered, as was the case with King Jehoram the son of Achab, 
concerning whom it is written [II Kings, vi. 30]: “ And it came 
to pass when the king heard the words of the woman, that he 
rent his clothes, as he was passing along upon the wall; and the 
people looked, and behold he had sackcloth beneath upon his 
flesh,”’ etc. 

R. Elazar said again: “‘ Not everyone has a right to rend his 
clothes, nor is it proper for everyone to fall upon his face (in 
prayer). Moses and Aaron fell upon their faces [Numbers, xiv. 5], 
and Joshua and Caleb rent their garments” [ibid., ibid.]. 

R. Zera, and according to others R. Samuel ben Na’hmeni, 
opposed this: “If it said, ‘ Joshua and Caleb rent their garments,’ 
the statement of R. Elazar.would be correct, but as it says ‘And 
Joshua and Caleb rent,’ etc., it signifies that they did do¢h—fell 
upon their faces and rent their garments.” 

R. Elazar said again: Not to everyone is it allowed to praise 
God by rising or by bowing. Kings may do so by rising, as it is 


ee ee ae ee ee Te eS ee 


TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 35 


written [Isaiah, xlix. 7]: “Thus hath said the Lord, the Redeemer 
of Israel, his Holy One, to him who is despised by men, to him 
who is abhorred by nations, to the servant of rulers, kings shall see 
it and rise up.” Princes may do so by prostrating themselves, as 
it is written [ibid.]: “Princes, and they shall prostrate them- 
selves.” 

R. Zera, others say R. Samuel ben Na’hmeni, opposed this : 
“Tf the verse read, ‘and princes shall prostrate themselves,’ it 
would imply that they would not rise avd prostrate themselves; 
but as it reads ‘princes, and they shall prostrate,’ etc., it implies 
that they did both.” 

Said R, Na’hman bar Itz’hak: “I would also remark that not 
everyone is worthy of obtaining light, and not everyone is worthy 
to have joy. The righteous are deserving of light and the upright 
of joy, as it is written [Psalms, xcvii. 11]: ‘ Light is sown for the 
righteous, and joy for the upright in heart.’” 


CHAPTER II. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE ORDER OF PROCEDURE ON THE LAST 
SEVEN FAST-DAYS, AND THE PRAYERS TO BE RECITED ON THOSE 
DAYS. 


MISHNA: What is the order of procedure on the fast-days? 
The ark containing the Holy Scrolls is to be brought into an 
open place in the city, ashes of burnt substances are to be strewed 
on that ark, on the head of the Nassi (prince), on the head of the 
chief of the Beth Din (court of justice); and other persons shall 
also themselves strew ashes on their heads. The eldest among 
them shall then address them in heart-moving terms, as follows: 
“My brethren! Consider that it is not written, anent the (repent- 
ance of the) Ninevites, that God regarded their having wrapped 
themselves in sackcloth and considered their fast-days, but that 
‘God saw their works, that they had turned from their evil way’ 
[Jonah, iii. 10], and the tradition of the prophets is (as it is 
written): ‘Rend your hearts, and not your garments’” [Joel, 
i. 037. 

After standing up to pray, the people shall place at the 
praying-desk, to minister, an old experienced person who has 
children and whose larder is empty, so that his mind may be 
entirely devoted to his prayer. This person shall say twenty- 
four benedictions; namely, the eighteen benedictions of the 
daily prayer, with the addition of six more, which are as 
follows: The texts of Zikhronoth (remembrance of His creatures) 
and of Shophroth (sounding of the cornet); the chapters: 
[Psalms, cxx.) “ Unto the Lord, when I was in distress, did I 
call, and he hath answered me”; [ibid. cxxi.] “I lift up my 
eyes unto the mountains,” etc.; [ibid. cxxx.] “Out of the 
depths have I called to thee, O Lord; and [ibid. cii.] “A prayer 
of the afflicted, when he is overwhelmed.” R. Jehudah said: 
It was not necessary to mention the Zikhronoth and Shophroth, 
but the following passages are to be read instead, namely: 
[I Kings, viii. 37] “If there be famine in the land, if there be 


pestilence,” etc.; and [Jeremiah, xiv.] “The word of the Lord 
36 


tn % 


TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 37 


that came to Jeremiah concerning the drought’; and the con- 
cluding is then added to each. 

To the first he (the reader) shall say additionally: “May 
He who answered Abraham on Mount Moriah answer you, 
and listen to your (prayer and) cry on this day. Blessed art 
thou, O Lord, Redeemer of Israel!’ To the second he shall say : 
“May He who answered our ancestors on the Red Sea answer 
you, and listen favorably unto your cry this day. Blessed art 
thou, O Lord, who rememberest all things forgotten (by man)!” 
To the third he shall say: ‘“ May He who answered Joshua in 
Gilgal answer you, and listen to your cry this day. Blessed art 
thou, O Lord, who deignest to listen to the sound of the cornet!” 
To the fourth he shall say: “‘ May He who answered Samuel in 
Mizpah answer you, and listen this day to your cry. Blessed art 
thou, O Lord, who hearkenest to (our) cry!” To the fifth he 
shall say: ‘‘ May he who answered Elijah on Mount Carmel 
answer you, and listen favorably to your cry on this day. Blessed 
art thou, O Lord, who hearkenest to prayer!” To the sixth he 
shall say: ‘“ May He who answered Jonah in the bowels of the 
fish answer you, and listen unto your cry this day. Blessed art 
thou, O Lord, who answerest in the time of distress!’’ To the 
seventh he says: ‘“ May he who answered David and his son 
Solomon in Jerusalem answer you, and listen unto your cry on 
this day. Blessed art thou, O Lord, who hast compassion on the 
earth!” 

It happened in the days of R. Halaphta and R. Hanina the 
son of Teradion, that a minister advanced to the praying-desk 
and completed the entire benediction without any (of the con- 
gregation) answering thereto “Amen.” (The sexton then pro- 
claimed): “Sound, priests! Sound!” (The minister who said 
the prayers then continued): ‘“ May He who answered our father 
Abraham on Mount Moriah answer you, and listen favorably to 
your prayer this day.” (The sexton then called): “Sound an 
alarm, sons of Aaron! Soundanalarm!” (The previous minister 
continued): “ May He who answered our ancestors on the Red 
Sea answer you, and listen favorably to your cry this day.” 
When the sages were informed of this, they said: “ This was not 
our custom, except at the eastern door (of the Temple) and on 
the Temple mount.” 

On the first three fasts, the priests who had the weekly watch 
of the Temple fasted, but only part of the day, and the minister- 
ing priests did not fast at all. On the second three fast-days, the 


38 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


priests on the weekly watch’ fasted the whole day, but the 
ministering priests only fasted part of the day; but on the last 
seven fast-days both classes of priests fasted the whole day. So 
said R. Jehoshua. But the sages say: “The first three fasts 
were not kept by either of the two classes; on the second three 
fasts the priests on weekly watch would fast part of the day, but 
the officiating priests would not fast at all. On the last seven, 
however, the priests on the weekly watch would fast the whole 
day ; but the officiating priests would fast only part of the day.” 

The priests having the weekly watch may drink wine at night, 
but not during the day,* but the officiating priests may drink it 
neither by day nor by night. The priests of the weekly watch 
and the standing men (commoners attending the public sacrifices 
as the representatives of the congregation at large) are not 
allowed to shave their beards or to wash their clothes; but on 
Thursday they are permitted to do so, in honor of the approach- 
ing Sabbath. (Moed Katan, p. 25.) 

Wherever it is mentioned in the “ Roll of Fasts” that “no 
lamentation and mourning is to be made” on certain days, it is 
also prohibited to do so on the day preceding, but permitted on 
the day following. R. Jose, however, says: “ It is prohibited to 
do so on both the day preceding and the day following.”” Where 
it is said, however, “No fasts are to be kept thereon,” it is 
allowed to fast on the day preceding and following days. R. 
Jose, however, says: “It is prohibited on the preceding, but 
allowed on the following day.” 

Public fasts must not be ordered to commence ona Thursday, 
in order not to raise the price of victuals in the markets; + but 
the first three fasts must be kept on Monday, Thursday, and the 
following Monday. But the second three fasts may follow on 
Thursday, Monday, and the following Thursday. R. Jose says: 
“Even as the first fasts are not to be commenced on Thursday, 
so also are the second and last fasts not to commence on that 
day.” 





* This regulation is a general one and applies to ordinary days as well as to 
fast-days. 

+ Precautions were taken in every instance to prevent exorbitant prices being 
charged for victuals and at times even existing ordinances were abrogated for this 
purpose. Thus no fast-days were ordered to commence on Thursday in order that 
the dealers in articles of food might not take advantage of the greater demand pro- 
duced by the necessity of laying in an extra supply for the day preceding the fast and 
for Sabbath. 





TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 39 


Public fasts are not to be ordered to take place on the feast 
of the New Moon, on that of Dedication (Hanukah), nor on that 
of Lots (Purim); but if the fast had already been commenced on 
one of those feasts, it need not be broken. Such is the decree of 
Rabban Gamaliel. R. Meir, however, says, that although Rab- 
ban Gamaliel said that the fast need not be broken, he admits 
that on those days people are not to fast the entire day. Such is 
also the case with the fast of the ninth of Abh, if it happen to 
fall on a Friday. 

GEMARA: “ What ts the order of procedure on the fast- 
days?’’ Does this apply also to the first three fast-days? Then 
it would be a contradiction to the following Boraitha: The first 
and the second three fast-days they enter into the praying-house 
and pray as usual; but in the last seven the ark is to be brought 
into an open place, etc. Said R. Papa: “Nay; our Mishna also 
refers to the last seven.” 

“On the head of the Nasst ( prince)”; and further, the Mishna 
teaches that ‘“‘ other persons shall also strew ashes on their heads.” 
This should not be so! For did not Rabbi teach in a Boraitha 
that where an act of honor is to be accomplished the most prom- 
inent persons are commenced with, while when an act of humilia- 
tion is to be performed the lowest in rank are first considered ? 
The strewing of ashes on the heads of the prince and of the chief 
of the Beth Din first is also an act of honor; for they are told 
that they are more worthy of praying for mercy for us and for 
all the world. 

“ Other persons shall also strew ashes on their heads.” Why 
must the prince and the chief of the Beth Din have someone else 
to strew ashes on their heads? Can they not do so themselves? 
Said R. Abba (or Ada) of Kisri: “ The humiliation of disgracing 
one’s self by one’s own hands is not equal to that of being dis- 
graced by the hands of others (where prominent persons are con- 
cerned, but as for common people it does not matter).” On 
what part of the head are the ashes put? Said R. Itz’hak: “ On 
the place where the phylacteries are generally worn, as it is 
written [Isaiah, Ixi. 3]: ‘To give unto them ornament in the 
place of ashes,’ implying that where ornaments (phylacteries) 
were worn ashes were put.” 

Why do they congregate in an open place? Said R. Hyya 
bar Abba: “In order that they might say: ‘We have prayed 
privately and were not answered, hence we shall humiliate our- 
selves by praying in public.’”» And Resh Lakish said: “In 


40 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


order that they might say: ‘We have been driven from our 
abodes, and may our banishment be the means of our forgive- 
ness.’ Why is the ark brought into an open place? Said R. 
Jehoshua ben Levi: “In order that they might say: ‘We had 
a hidden treasure, but through our transgressions that also has 
become profaned.’’’ Why do they clothe themselves in sack- 
cloth? Said R. Hyya bar Abba: “ In order that they might say : 
‘We are now like the beasts of the field.’”’ Why are ashes 
strewn on the ark? Said R. Jehudah ben Pazi: “In order to 
say that this is an allusion to what is written [Psalms, xci. 15]: 
‘With him I am in distress,’ meaning that the Shekhina shares 
the distress of the people.” Resh Lakish said: “ In order to say 
that this is an allusion to the passage: ‘In their affliction he was 
afflicted.’”’ Said R. Zera: “When I saw the rabbis strew ashes 
on the ark, my whole body trembled.” 

Why are ashes strewn on the heads of all? Concerning this, 
R. Levi bar Hama and R. Hanina differ. One says that this is 
equal to saying: “ We are now before thee, O Lord, as ashes” ; 
and the other says: “It is for the purpose of begging the Lord 
to remember the ashes of Isaac.” For what purpose did they go 
out to the cemeteries? * Concerning this, R. Levi bar Hama 
and R. Hanina also differ. One says, in order that they might 
say they were now equal to the dead; while the other says that 
it was for the purpose of having the souls of the departed pray 
for them. 

Why was the Mount called Mount Moriah [II Chronicles, 
iii. 1]? Concerning this there is again a difference between R. 
Levi bar Hama and R. Hanina. One says that Moriah is the 
equivalent of Horaah (z.e., enactment), while the other says that 
Moriah is the equivalent of Mora (fear); for when the Temple 
was built, other nations were awed. 

“In heart-moving terms.” The rabbis taught: If the eldest 
among them was also ascholar he would address them; otherwise 
a scholar, even if he was younger, would address them, and if 
there was no scholar among them a prominent man would do it. 
And he would say to them: “Brethren! It is not written, anent 
the repentance of the Ninevites, that God regarded their having 
wrapped themselves in sackcloth and considered their fast-days, 





*In the Palestinian Talmud it is stated, in addition to what is taught in this 
Mishna, that they would clothe themselves in sackcloth, go out to the cemeteries, and 
sound the cornet. 


> 


TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 41 


but that ‘God saw their works, that they had turned from their 
evil way ’”’ [Jonah, iii. 10]. 

Concerning the Ninevites it is written [Jonah, iii. 8]: “ But 
let man and beast be covered with sackcloth.’”” How was it 
done? They separated the suckling animals from their mothers 
and said: “Sovereign of the Universe! If Thou wilt not have 
mercy upon us, we will not have mercy upon them.” And 
further on: ‘“ Let men call unto God with might.’’ What is meant 
by “with might’’? That means to say that they said: “ Lord of 
the Universe! Who of the two should give way unto the other? 
The oppressed and the one who cannot be oppressed, the righteous 
and the wicked?” (Now, as we are the oppressed and Thou canst 
not be oppressed, shouldst Thou not overlook our iniquity ?) 
Further, it is written [ibid.]: “ And let them turn every one from 
his evil way, and from the violence which is in their hands.” 
What is meant by “the violence which is in their hands”? Said 
Samuel: “If a man had wrongfully appropriated a beam which 
he had used in building a house, he would tear down the house 
and restore the beam to its rightful owner.” 

R. Ada bar Ahabha said: “If a man confesses to a wrong 
committed, and repents it without making proper restitution 
therefor, he is equal to a man holding a dead reptile in his hands 
and bathing himself in order to become clean; for, as a man who 
has a dead reptile in his hands, even should he bathe in all the 
legal baths in the world, would not become clean until he had rid 
himself of the reptile—but if he threw away that unclean thing a 
bath measuring forty Saahs would cleanse him—so it is with a 
man who had committed a wrong: unless he made proper resti- 
tution all confession and repentance is in vain, as it is written 
[ Proverbs, xxviii. 13]: ‘He that concealeth his transgressions will 
not prosper; but whoso confesseth and forsaketh them will obtain 
mercy’; and as it is written [Lamentations, iii. 41]: ‘Let us lift 
up our heart and our hands unto God in the heavens.’”’ 

“ After standing up to pray.” The rabbis taught: At prayer, 
though there be the eldest and a scholar present, neither should 
be placed at the reading-desk unless they were experienced in 
prayer; but only one who has had thorough experience. R. 
Jehudah said: ‘‘ The minister should be a man who has children 
and cannot provide for them, who works hard in the field but 
has empty storehouses, who has good manners, who is modest, 
who is popular, who has an attractive, sweet voice, who can read 
the entire Holy Writ, and is competent to learn Midrash, Hala- 


42 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


khoth, and Haggadoth, and is conversant with all the benedic- 
tions.” The rabbis looked among themselves and cast their eyes 
upon R. Itz’hak bar Ami, who had all those qualities. 

(R. Jehudah said :) “‘Who has children and cannot provide 
for them and who has empty (store) houses.’ Is that not one 
and the same thing?’”’ Said R. Hisda: “By an empty house is 
meant one free from sin.” What is meant by “ good manners” ? 
One who never had a bad reputation since his earliest youth. 

“ With the addition of six more.” Are there not seven addi- 
tional benedictions? as the Mishna states further on: “To the 
seventh he says,” etc. Said R. Na’hman b. Itz’hak: By the 
seventh is meant the seventh to the long benediction, as we have 
learned in a Boraitha: He says twenty-four benedictions, namely : 
the eighteen benedictions of the daily prayer, with the addition 
of six more, and those six are said between the benediction of 
redemption and healing, and the benediction of the redemption 
is made longer. After each benediction the congregation answers 
“Amen.” Such was the custom, however, only outside of the 
Temple, but in the Temple the reader would say: ‘“ Blessed be 
the Lord the God of Israel, from the beginning to the end of 
the world’; and they would conclude by saying: “ Blessed be 
the Redeemer of Israel.’”’ But no “ Amen” was answered ; and 
why not? Because in the Temple it was not allowed to answer 
“Amen.” Whence do we deduce this? Because it is written 
[ Nehemiah, ix. 5]: “Arise, bless ye the Lord your God from 
eternity to eternity. And let men bless thy glorious name, 
which is exalted above all blessing and praise.” This signifies, 
that after each blessing the Lord’s name should be praised (but 
not that “ Amen” should be said). 

The rabbis taught : To the first benedictions the reader would 
say: “ Blessed be the Lord the God of Israel, from the beginning 
unto the end of the world. Blessed be the Redeemer of Israel!” 
and the people answered after him: “Praised be the name of 
the glory of His kingdom for ever and ever.’’ The Chazan (sex- 
ton) of the congregation then says: “Sound, priests, sound!” 
The reader then continues: “May He who answered Abraham 
on Mount Moriah answer you, and listen to your cry on this 
day.” The priests then sound, make an alarm, and sound again. 
To the second, the reader says at the conclusion: “ Blessed be 
-the Lord, who remembereth all things forgotten (by man)”; and 
the people answer: “ Praised be the name of the glory of His 
kingdom for ever and ever.” The Chazan then says: “Sound 


TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 43 


an alarm, children of Aaron, sound an alarm!” The reader then 
says: “ May He who answered our ancestors on the Red Sea 
answer you, and listen favorably unto your cry this day.” The 
priests then make an alarm, sound, and then make another alarm ; 
and such is the manner of procedure with everyone of the bene- 
dictions. The Chazan says alternately, “Sound!” and “Sound 
an alarm!” until all the benedictions are said. 

Thus did R. Halaphta proceed in Sepphoris and R. Hanina 
ben Teradon in the city of Sikhni; and when the sages were in- 
formed of this, they said: “This was not customary except at 
the eastern door of the Temple, and at the Temple Mount.” 

“R. Jehudah said: ‘It was not necessary to mention the 
Zikhronoth,” etc. Said R. Ada of Jaffa: “The reason of R. 
Jehudah’s dictum is, that the Zikhronoth and Shophroth are only 
mentioned on the New Year day, on the day of the jubilee, and 
during times of war.” 

“ To the sixth ... to the seventh he shall say,” etc. Let us 
see! Jonah lived after the time of David and Solomon, why is 
he mentioned first? Because he must conclude the benediction 
to the seventh with, “ Blessed be thou, O Lord, who hast com- 
passion on the earth,” therefore he must mention Jonah first. 
We have learned in a Boraitha: It was said upon the authority 
of Symmachos that instead of the benediction, “who hast com- 
passion on the earth,” the benediction, “who makest humble 
those that are arrogant,” is said. 

“ On the first three fasts, the priests,” etc. Therabbis taught: 
Why was it said that the priests on the weekly watch were al- 
lowed to drink wine at night and not during the day? Lest the 
officiating priests be overwhelmed with work and those on the 
weekly watch would be required to assist them. And why was it 
said that the officiating priests must not drink either during the 
day or at night? Because they were compelled to work day and 
night. 

“ The priests of the weekly watch and the standing men,” etc. 
What was the reason that they were not allowed to shave their 
beards? “In order that they may not enter upon their duties 
while they are ugly to look upon,” said Rabba bar bar Hana in 
the name of R. Johanan.* 





*The proper time when kings, officials, and the common people may shave 
their beards will be explained and discussed in Tract Sanhedrin, and for that reason 
the discussion pertaining thereto is here omitted. 


44 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


“« Wherever it ts mentioned in the ‘ Roll of Fasts,” etc. The 
rabbis taught: It says in the “ Roll of Fasts”: These are the 
days on which fasting is not permitted, and on some of them it 
is not even allowed to mourn. From the first of Nissan on, until 
and including the eighth, on which days it was resolved that the 
strife carried on between the Pharisees and the Bathusees con- 
cerning the continual daily offering * should be amicably con- 
cluded by adopting the decree of the Pharisees, it was enacted 
that no mourning or lamenting should be permitted; and from 
the eighth day of Nissan until after the Passover festival it was 
established when the feast of Pentecost should be celebrated,+ 
and for that reason on those days no mourning or lamenting is 
allowed. 

The Master said: “ From the first day of Nissan,” etc. Why 
does he say from the first? That is the day of the New Moon, 
and in itself a feast-day when one must not mourn — why does 
he not say from the second day of Nissan? Said Rabh: “He 
said ‘from the first day of Nissan’ so as to provide that even on 
the day preceding that, one must not mourn.” But the first day 
of Nissan being a feast of the New Moon, it is self-understood 
that on the preceding day one must not mourn; for such is the 
law concerning all days preceding a feast-day! Nay; but the 
feast of the New Moon is a biblical feast-day, and no additional 
measure need be enacted to provide for its faithful observance ; 
and mourning on a day preceding a feast-day is only prohibited 
as a precautionary measure, lest the mourning be continued on 
the feast-day itself. If the feast-day, however, is a biblical one, 
such a measure is not necessary and is only enacted for rabbinical 
feast-days. 





* The strife carried on between the Pharisees and the Bathusees concerning the 
continual daily offering was as follows: The Bathusees maintained that because it is 
written [Numbers, xxviii. 4]: ‘‘ The one sheep shalt thou prepare in the morning and 
the other sheep shalt ¢how prepare toward evening,” it is permitted for an individ- 
ual to bring the continual daily offering, while the Pharisees held that the offering 
must be brought by the congregation from communal funds, basing their claim 
upon the passage [ibid. 2]: ‘‘ Shall ye observe,” etc. 

+ The Pharisees and Bathusees also disputed about the date when the feast of 
Pentecost was to be celebrated, the latter claiming that as it is written [Lev. xxiii. 15]: 
** And ye shall count unto you, from the morrow after the Sabbath . . . seven 
complete weeks,” the day of Pentecost must necessarily fall on the first day of the 
week; but the Pharisees, through R. Johanan ben Zakkai, maintained that the pas- 
sage implies that counting must be commenced on the day following the first day of 
the festival, and therefore the feast of Pentecost would fall on the sixth day of the 
month of Sivan. 


hot ae’) = als as 
Pee 8S ee eee ee Pe) ee 


Ace we 


Mt DAL » 


& 


Ne Seed ai Ree Sitar RS Nataly A ag NR rd a AA 6 





peas pe Sina | 


TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 45 


The Master said: “ From the eighth day until after the festi- 
val,” etc. Why does he say “ until after the festival”? Why not 
until the festival? Surely one must not mourn on the festival 
itself! Said R. Papa: “Inthe same manner as Rabh said, that 
the first day of Nissan is mentioned in order to provide for the 
day preceding it as a day on which one must not mourn, so in 
this case it says ‘until after the festival’ in order to include the 
day following the festival among the days on which it is not 
allowed to mourn; and this will be in accordance with the dictum 
of R. Jose, who says in this Mishna ‘that it is prohibited to 
mourn on both the day preceding and following.’”’ 

It was taught: R. Hyya bar Assi said in the name of Rabh 
that the Halakha prevails according to R. Jose, and Samuel said 
that the Halakha prevails according to R. Meir. 

R. Na’hman ordained a fast-day on the thirteenth day of 
Nissan, and he was reminded by the sages that that was the day 
of Torainos; but he replied that the day of Torainos was abol- 
ished, for on that day Shmaia and Ahia his brother were slain. 
Why was R. Na’hman reminded that the day was that of Torainos, 
he could have been apprised of the fact that it was the day be- 
fore the feast of Nikanor? Said R. Ashi: “If the day was 
abolished as the feast-day of Torainos, should it be kept as a 
precautionary day for the observance of the day of Nikanor?” 

What is Nikanor and what is Torainos? We have learned in 
a Boraitha: Nikanor was one of the Greek viceroys, and every 
day he would lift up his hand and vow that if ever Judea and 
Jerusalem came into his hands he would crush them. After the 
Maccabees conquered him in battle, his thumbs and big toes were 
cut off and hung up in the gates of Jerusalem, and it was said 
that the mouth which had vowed against Jerusalem and the 
hands which had been lifted up against it should be made to 
suffer. 

What is Torainos? It was said: When Torainos desired to 
slay Lolainos and his brother Papos in Ludkia (Lydda), he said 
to them: “If ye be of the same nation as Hananiah, Mishael, 
and Azariah, let your God come and save you from my hands as 
He did them from the hands of Nebuchadnezzar.” They an- 
swered : “ Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah were truly righteous 
men and Nebuchadnezzar was a just king, deserving of being the 
means through which a miracle was to be performed. But we 
have incurred the death penalty before Heaven in any event, 
and if thou shouldst not slay us, God has other agents who will 


46 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


accomplish this—for instance, lions, bears, and other wild beasts 
who could kill us; and thou art a wicked man, who art not worthy 
of having a miracle occur through thee, and God hath given us 
into thy hands in order to hold thee to account for our blood 
which thou wilt have shed.” Still, he had them executed, and it 
was said that he did not leave his place before two envoys arrived 
from Rome, and his skull was split into pieces. 

“ Public fasts are not to be ordered,” etc. What is meant by 
“but if the fast had already been commenced”? Said R. Aha: 
“Tf three fast-days had already been kept”; and R. Assi said: 
“ Even if one had been kept.” 

R. Jehudah said in the name of Rabh: All (of) this (clause of 
the Mishna) is in accordance with the dictum of R. Meir in the 
name of Rabban Gamaliel; but the sages said that one must 
complete his fast. Mar Zutra went and preached in the name of 
R, Huna, that the Halakha prevails that one must fast under 
those circumstances and, moreover, complete the fast. 


e* 


CHAPTER III. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING OCCURRENCES ON ACCOUNT OF WHICH 
FAST-DAYS ARE ORDERED, OR ALARMS ARE SOUNDED. WHEN 
FASTING ON ACCOUNT OF RAIN IS STOPPED, 


MISHNA: The order of procedure on fast-days, as mentioned 
(in the preceding Mishna) above, applies only when the first 
fructifying rains do not descend; but when the sprouts com- 
mence to degenerate, they shall immediately commence to sound 
an alarm. It should also be immediately sounded if there be 
an interval of forty days between each rain; for that is a general 
plague on the land, causing dearth. 

If sufficient rain for the growth of sprouts and herbs had fallen, 
but not for the growth of trees; or sufficient for the growth of 
trees, but not enough for the growth of herbs; or sufficient for 
both, but not enough to fill the wells, cisterns, and caves (creeks), 
an alarm is immediately to be sounded. 

Thus, also, if no rain should have fallen over some particular 
city, similar to that which is written [Amos, iv. 7]: “I caused it 
to rain upon one city, and upon another city I caused it not to 
rain; one piece of land was rained upon,” etc.—the inhabitants 
of such a city must fast and sound an alarm, and those of the 
circumjacent places shall fast, but not sound. R. Agqiba, how- 
ever, says, ‘‘ They are to sound, but not to fast.” 

Thus, also, when pestilence is raging in a city, or when the 
walls fall down, the inhabitants of such a city must fast, and 
those of the adjacent places should fast, but not sound. R. 
Aqiba, however, says: ‘They should sound the alarm, but not 
fast.” What is considered a pestilence? If in a city capable of 
furnishing five hundred able-bodied men three persons die in 
three consecutive days, it is a pestilence; less than this is not a 
pestilence. 

Analarm should be sounded in all places for the following 
plagues: For a corn-blast, mildew, locusts, crickets, attacks of 
wild beasts, and hosts of armed men; for all these an alarm should 
be sounded, because they are spreading evils, 

47 


48 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


It once happened that some elders going from Jerusalem, 
each to his own place, decreed a fast, because a corn-blast, the 
grainless stalks of which were sufficient to heat an oven, had 
been seen near Ascalon. 

They also decreed a fast on account of two children having 
been devoured by wolves on the other side of Jordan. R. Jose 
says: “It was not ordered because of the wolves having de- 
voured the children, but because of their presence (in the towns 
prowling for food).” 

On account of the following calamities an alarm should be 
sounded even on the Sabbath: For acity surrounded by enemies, 
for a flood threatening to inundate the country, and for a ship 
in imminent danger of being wrecked at sea. R. Jose says: 
“This sounding is intended to obtain assistance from men, and 
not as an imploring cry to God.” Simeon the Temanite says: 
“They shall also sound on the Sabbath in case of pestilence” ; 
but the sages did not coincide with him. 

On account of every plague—with which may the community 
never be visited !—an alarm should be sounded except on account 
of an excess of rain. 

It once happened that Honi Hama’gel (the circle-drawer) 
was asked by the people to pray for them, that-rain might de- 
scend. Said he tothem: “Go and bring in the Passover ovens,* 
that they may not be spoiled by the rain.” He prayed, but the 
rain did not descend. What did he then? He drew (marked 
out) a circle around him, and placing himself within it, prayed as 
follows: “Creator of the Universe! Thy children have always 
looked up to me as being like a son of Thy house before Thee. 
I swear, therefore, by Thy Great Name, that I will not move from 
this place until Thou wilt have compassion on Thy children.” 
Whereupon the rain commenced to drop down gently. Said he: 
“Tt was not for this I prayed, but for rain sufficient to fill the 
wells, cisterns, and caves.” The rain then fell in torrents, and 
he said: “ Not for such rain have I prayed, but for mild, felici- 
tous, and liberal showers.” The rain then descended in the 
usual manner, until the Israelites of Jerusalem were obliged to 
seek refuge from the city to the Temple Mount, on account 
of the rain. They came and said to Honi: “ Even as thou didst 
pray that the rain might descend, so pray now that it may cease.” 





* The ovens were movable, and were used to roast the paschal lamb on the Pass- 
over. When not in use they were kept outside of the house. 


TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 49 


And he replied: “Go and see whether the stone To’yim * is 
covered by the waters.’ Simeon b. Sheta’h sent him word, say- 
ing: “If thou wert not Honi, I would order that thou be anathe- 
matized. But what shall I do with thee, since thou art petulant 
towards God, and yet He forgiveth and indulgeth thee like a 
petted child who is petulant towards his father and is neverthe- 
less forgiven and indulged? To thee may be applied the passage 
[Prov. xxiii. 25]: ‘Let thy father and thy mother rejoice, and 
let her that hath born thee be glad.’ ” 

If, while the people are fasting, rain should fall before sunrise, 
they shall not continue to fast the whole day; but they must do 
so if the rain fall after sunrise. R. Eliezer says: “If it rains be- 
fore noon, they need not continue to fast the whole day; but 
they must do so if the rain commenced after noon is passed.” 
It once happened that a fast was ordered in Lydda and it rained 
before noon, whereupon R. Tarphon said unto the people: “ Go, 
eat and drink, and make a feast.’”’ They went, ate and drank, 
and made a feast; but in the evening they returned and sang the 
great Hallel. 

GEMARA: “ When the first fructifying rains do not ade- 
scend.”’ A contradiction was made: “We have learned in a 
Boraitha: ‘If the first and second fructifying rains did not de- 
scend, prayers for rain must be commenced, and only if the third 
fructifying rain was withheld fasting is resorted to’?” Said R. 
Juhudah: “The Mishna means to say this: If the time for the 
first, second, and third fructification had passed without rain hav- 
ing descended, then the order of fasting goes into effect; but if 
the first fructification has taken place, yet the seed had not 
sprouted, or the sprouts had degenerated, then the alarm must 
be sounded.” Said R. Na’hman: “Only if the sprouts had de- 
generated the alarm is sounded, but not if they had withered (for 
in the latter event there is still hope that they might revive). Is 
this not self-evident? It says, distinctly, ‘if the sprouts had de- 
generated’?”” R. Na’hman means to say that, even if the sprouts 
had already reached the stage of stalks and had then withered, it 
might be assumed that there was no hope of their ever again re- 
viving—hence we are told that all hope is not yet lost. 





* This was the name of a high stone in Jerusalem, where the finders of lost arti- 
cles would deposit what they had found, and then proclaim that they had found 
something. The owners would then come, and upon sufficient identification of the 
lost article it would be restored to them. 


4 


50 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. . 


“ For that is a general plague on the land, causing dearth.” 
What is considered a “ plague causing dearth”? Said R. Jehu- 
dah: “ That is a plague which eventually results in a famine.” 
Said R. Na’hman: “If a town had no grain, but could procure a 
supply from another town by means of ships, it cannot be said to 
be suffering from an actual famine, but merely from temporary 
want; but if the entire land has no grain and it can procure a 
supply only from another country, and not by means of ships but 
by means of asses, then a state of famine can be said to exist.” 

_R. Hanina said: “ Even if the price of grain has reached the 
sum of one Sela for one Saah, but at that price it is obtainable, 
this would merely constitute a case of want; if, however, the 
price of grain remained one Sela for four Saah, but it was not ob- 
tainable at all, then a state of famine actually exists.” Said R. 
Johanan: “All this applies when grain is dear but money is 
plentiful; if, however, grain is not dear but money is scarce, an 
alarm must immediately be sounded ; for I recollect it happened 
at one time in Tiberias that although four Saah of grain were to 
be had for one Sela, still many people were starving to death, be- 
cause they did not have the necessary coin with which to pur- 
chase their grain.” 

“Tf sufficient raim for the growth of sprouts... had 
fallen,” etc. It may well be that sufficient rain can descend for 
the growth of sprouts that would not be beneficial to the growth 
of trees—for instance, a heavy rain; or that the rain be suffi- 
cient for trees but inadequate for the growth of sprouts—for 
instance, a light rain (see page 5). It might also be that suff- 
cient rain should descend for both the trees and the sprouts, 
which would, however, be inadequate to fill the wells, cisterns, 
and caves; but how can that take place, after what we have 
learned in a Boraitha, namely: “that sufficient rain descended to 
fill the wells, cisterns, and caves, which was, however, inadequate 
for the trees and sprouts”? That (Boraitha) refers to a rain 
which fell in torrents and filled up the wells, etc., but did no good 
to the trees and sprouts. 

The rabbis taught: In the midst of Passover, if sufficient rain 
had not yet fallen for the trees, the alarm is already to be 
sounded; and if there was not sufficient rain by the time the 
middle (day) of the Feast of Tabernacles was reached, the alarm 
must immediately be sounded; and at all times where there is 
not sufficient drinking-water on hand, the alarm should at once 
be sounded. What is meant by “at once”? The Monday, 


TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 51 


Thursday, and Monday following; and the sounding must be 
effected in the capital of the province concerned. 

On account of croup (quinsy or whooping-cough), if fatalities 
arise therefrom, the alarm must be sounded; but if all affected 
become cured an alarm is not necessary. On account of locusts 
(Gobai),* as soon as they make their appearance the alarm is to 
be sounded. R. Simeon ben Elazar said: “Also on account of 
grasshoppers ” (Chagabim).+ 

The rabbis taught: An alarm may be sounded on account of 
the trees (when they have not succeeded) in ordinary years; but 
when there is a want of rain for the wells, cisterns, and caves, 
this may be done even in the Sabbatical years. R. Simeon b. 
Gamaliel, however, said: “It may so be done in Sabbatical years 
even on account of the trees, as they constitute the means of 
livelihood of the poor.” The same we have learned in another 
Boraitha, with the addition that even on account of the 
it may be done, as they are the means of livelihood of the 
poor. 

The rabbis taught: It once happened that the Israelites came 
to Jerusalem for the festivals, and there was not sufficient water 
for drinking purposes. So Nakdimon ben Gurion went to a 
certain master (a heathen), and requested him to lend him twelve 
wells of water for the pilgrims, promising to return either the 
twelve wells of water or in lieu thereof twelve talents of silver, at 
a certain time. When the time arrived, the master sent to 
Nakdimon in the morning demanding either the wells of water 
or the silver, and Nakdimon replied: “I have still the whole 
day’s time.”” At noon the same demand was made, and the same 
answer given. Late in the afternoon the master sent the same 
demand, and received a reply that the day had not yet passed. 
So the master laughed at the idea, saying that if a whole year 
had elapsed without it having rained, was it possible that it should 
still rain on that day? and went to his bath rejoicing over the 
prospect of soon possessing the money due him. At the same 
time that he entered his bathroom, Nakdimon went into the 
Temple, wrapped himself in his cloak, and commenced to pray, 
saying: “Creator of the Universe! It is known to Thee, that 
not for the sake of glory for me nor for my father’s house, but 





*In Tract Chullin, 65 a, it says Go-bai zeh Arbah = Gobai, and means locust. 
+ Chagab is also a locust, and presumably a grasshopper. See Numbers, xiii. 
33; Isaiah, xl. 22, etc. 


52 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


for the glory of Thy name, that the pilgrims in Jerusalem might 
have water, did I borrow those wells.” Immediately upon this 
the sky became clouded, rain began to fall, and the twelve wells 
became filled up to overflowing. 

When the master stepped out of his bath-house, Nakdimon 
went out of the Temple, and they met. Said Nakdimon to him: 
“Refund to me the amount for the water in excess of that which 
I borrowed from thee.” And he replied: “I know well that the 
Holy One, blessed be He, caused the world to storm only on thy 
account, yet I can still claim the amount due me, for the sun has 
already set and the rain descended after the stated time had ex- 
pired.”” Nakdimon then reéntered the Temple, again wrapped 
himself in his cloak and commenced to pray, saying: ‘“ Creator 
of the Universe! Announce to the world that Thou hast favorites 
here on earth!”” Whereupon the clouds immediately scattered, 
and the sun again commenced to shine. The master seeing 
Nakdimon, said to him: “ Had the sun not reappeared, I should 
have had a valid claim for the amount of money due me.” We 
have learned in a Boraitha: His name was not Nakdimon, but 
Boni, and he was called Nakdimon because on his account the 
sun hastened.* “ 

The rabbis taught: “ For the sake of each of three men alone 
the sun shone, and they are Moses, Joshua, and Nakdimon ben 
Gurion.” Thisis correct in the case of Nakdimon ben Gurion, from 
the above-mentioned tradition. Inthecase of Joshua it is also cor- 
rect, because so is it written [Joshua, x. 13]: ““Andthe sun stood 
still in the midst of the heavens.’’ But whence do they adduce 
that the sun shone for Moses alone? Said R. Elazar: This 
may be inferred from the analogous term: “1 will commence.” 
It is written [Deut. ii. 25]: “This day will I commence to put 
the dread of thee,’ and [Joshua, iii. 7]: “This day will I 
commence to make thee great,” etc. R.Johanan said: “(No 
analogous comparison is necessary, for) it may be adduced 
from the passage itself [Deut. ii. 25]: ‘Whoever will hear of 
thee shall tremble and shall quake because of thee. Why 
will they do this? Because on Moses’ account alone the sun 
shone.” 

The rabbis taught: A man should always be soft (z.., plia- 
ble, yielding) as a reed, and not hard as a cedar-tree. It once 





* Hastening is called in Hebrew ‘‘ K’dimah,” and Nakdimon is derived from 
K’dimah, according to the annotations of Joel Sirkosh. 


TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 53 


happened that R. Elazar ben R. Simeon (should rather be R. Sim- 
eon ben Elazar) went from the tower of Gador, where resided his 
Master, riding on an ass. He rode leisurely on the banks of the 
river, being greatly rejoiced and feeling very proud on account of 
the wealth of knowledge he had accumulated from his Master. 
On the way he met a man who was terribly ugly (of face).* That 
man greeted R. Elazar respectfully, and said to him: “ Peace 
be with thee, Rabbi!’’ The rabbi did not, however, return the 
greeting, and, moreover, said: “ Vain man, how terribly ugly art 
thou! Areall thy townsmen as ugly asthou art?” And the man 
replied: “ That I know not; but it would be seemly if thou wert to 
go to the Creator who formed me and say to Him: ‘ How ungainly 
is the creature Thou hast made!’” Realizing that he had offended 
against the man, R. Elazar dismounted and, making an obeisance, 
said: “I have sinned against thee—forgive me, I pray!” But 
the man refused, saying: ‘Nay, I shall not forgive thee until 
thou shalt go to the Creator and say to Him: ‘ How ungainly is 
the creature Thou hast made!’” R.Elazar, however, would not 
leave the man, and followed him on foot until they reached the 
city where R. Elazar dwelt. As soon as the townsmen per- 
ceived him they thronged towards him with greetings. ‘ Peace 
be with thee, Rabbi, Rabbi! Master, Master!’ The ugly man 
who preceded R. Elazar asked them whom they were addressing 
with “ Rabbi” and “ Master,” and they answered: “The man 
who is following thee.” Said he: “If he be a rabbi, may there 
not be many like him in Israel.’’ And they asked: ‘ Why not?” 
So he replied that thus and so had he been served by him. They 
then pleaded with him: “ Still forgive him, for he is a great man 
in the study of the Law.’”” And he said: “ For your sakes I will 
forgive him, but upon the condition that he shall not do likewise 
again.” Immediately following this, R. Elazar went forth and 
preached: “A man should be soft as a reed and not hard as a 
cedar.” 

On account of having been compared with man, it was des- 
tined for a reed that the Scrolls, Phylacteries, and Mezuzoth 
should be written with it. 

“ When walls fall down.” The rabbis taught: “ By ‘walls’ 
are meant sound walls; z.e., such as were not expected to fall, 





*In Tract Derech Eretz, as well as in the commentaries of Rashi and Tosphath, 
this man is said to have been Elijah the Prophet, who assumed that disguise in order 
to humble R. Elazar. 


54 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


but not such as were tottering.” What is meant by “such as 
are tottering’? Walls that stand on the banks of a stream. As 
it once happened in Neherdai there was a wall resting on a weak 
foundation; and although it had been standing for thirteen 
years, Rabh and Samuel would never pass by beneath it. One 
day R. Ada bar Ahabha came to Neherdai, and together with 
Rabh and Samuel set out to go somewhere. Said Samuel 
to Rabh: “Let the Master go with me in a roundabout way, 
so as to avoid the wall.” But Rabh replied: “To-day this 
is not necessary. For R. Ada is with us, and his merits are 
such that a wall would not fall where he is about to walk; hence 
I have no fear.” 

R. Huna had wine in a room which was in an unsafe condi- 
tion, and the walls of which were momentarily expected to fall. 
He wished to remove the wine, but was afraid to enter the room. 
So he got R. Ada bar Ahabha to enter the room with him, en- 
gaged him in a discussion concerning a Halakha, and while they 
were arguing R. Huna’s men removed the wine. After they left, 
the walls of the room fell in. When R. Ada realized how he had 
been used, he became angry. 

(What R. Ada did to be so eminently favored will be related 
in Tract Megilla.) 

Rabha asked Raphram bar Papa: “Canst thou not relate to 
me the good things which R. Huna did?” And he replied: “I 
do not remember anything of his youth; but when he was of 
mature age, I know that whenever there was a storm in the city 
where he lived, which caused any damage to the buildings, he 
would have himself carried about in a golden palanquin and ex- 
amine the city, and wherever he noticed an unsafe wall, would 
order its demolition. Wherever the owner of that building 
could not afford to have it rebuilt, R. Huna would have it done 
at his own expense. On every eve of Sabbath he would send his 
servants to the markets with instructions to purchase all the 
vegetables, which the marketers had left on their hands, and 
throw them into the stream, in order that they might not be put 
on sale again the following week in an unwholesome condition.” 
[ Why did he not rather distribute them among the poor than 
throw them into the stream? Because the poor would depend 
upon receiving them free the second time, and would not buy 
any at all. Then why did he not use them as food for the ani- 
mals? Because R. Huna held that articles which a man can use 
as food should not be purchased as fodder for cattle to com- 


we 


TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 55 


mence with.}] ‘Whenever the sickness of Shaibatha* occurred 
in his city, he would examine it and give the sufferers relief; 
outside of his house he placed a jar of water for the use of 
all who desired him to relieve them. When sitting down to 
a meal, he would order a servant to throw open the doors 
and call out: ‘Whoever desires to eat, let him come in and 
do so.””’ 

Said Rabha: “I could accomplish all that R. Huna did, 
with the exception of throwing open my doors and inviting 
everybody to eat; for there are a great many poor people in 
Mehuzza, and I could not feed them all.” (According to 
another version, he said that he could not do this on account 
of the many soldiers and Persians stationed in Mehuzza, who 
would take advantage of such an invitation and eat him out of 
house and home.) 

Ilpha and R. Johanan studied the Law together. They were 
in very poor circumstances and were in want of food. So they 
said: “We will lay aside our studies and engage in some re- 
munerative occupation, thereby carrying out what is written 
[Deut. xv. 4]: ‘Indeed, there should be no needy man among 
thee.” Inthe meantime they sat down to eat beneath an un- 
safe wall. Sotwo angels appeared, and R. Johanan heard one of 
them say to the other: “ Let us throw this wall down upon them, 
for they are about to leave the pursuit of the future life in order 
to obtain a worldly livelihood.” But the other angel replied : 
“Let them be; for there is one of them whom the time will 
succor and who will shortly become great.” R. Johanan heard 
this, but Ilpha did not, and the former asked: ‘‘ Did Master hear 
anything?” And Ilpha replied: “Nay; I heard nothing.” So 
R. Johanan thought: “ Because I heard it and Ilpha did not, in 
all probability I am the one who is referred to as shortly to be- 
come great.” And he said to Ilpha: “ I have reconsidered it and 
will return to the study of the Law, thus fulfilling what is writ- 
ten in another passage [ibid. 11]: ‘For the needy will not cease 
out of the land.’”” Thus R. Johanan returned to his studies and 
Ilpha engaged in business. By the time Ilpha returned, R. 
Johanan became the chief of the college. The schoolmen after- 





* Concerning the sickness of Shaibatha there is a lengthy discussion among the 
commentators of the Talmud. Some say that it was a muscular disease peculiar to 
children between the age of two months and seven years. Others say that it was a 
disease produced by evil spirits, etc. No definite term for the word can be found. 
The Aruch devotes two whole pages to the different opinions regarding this disease. 


56 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


wards said to Ilpha: If thou hadst stayed here with us, we would 
have made thee the chief of the college.* 

It was said of Nahum the man of Gim-Zu—who was blind 
in both eyes, crippled in both hands, both of whose legs were 
crushed and whose whole body was covered with sores, and who 
was lying on a bed the feet of which stood in buckets of water so 
as to prevent worms from reaching his body, and his bed stood in 
a house which was in a tottering condition—that his disciples 
at one time wished to remove his bed from that house and then 
remove all the other vessels contained therein. So he said to 
them: “ My children! First take out everything contained in this 
house and then remove my bed; for ye can rest assured that as 
long asI am in this house it will not fall.” They did so, and 
after removing his bed the house fell in. Said the disciples to 
him: “As we can perceive, Master, thou art a truly upright man, 
Why, then, art thou so terribly afflicted?” And he replied: 
“My children! I myself am the cause of it. I was at one time 
on my way to the house of my father-in-law and had with me 
three asses, one laden with food, another with drink, and the 
third with delicacies. In the course of my journey a poor man 
came to me and said: ‘Master, give me some food,’ and I 
answered : ‘Wait until I can unload my asses.’ But before I 
had done so, the poor man expired. Sol fell on his face and 
said: ‘ My eyes, which had no compassion on thy eyes, may they 
become blind! My hands, which had no mercy upon thy hands, 
may they become crippled! My feet, which had not pity with 
thy feet, may they be crushed!’ And I could not assuage my 
grief until I had said: ‘May my whole body become covered 
with sores.’”” Said the disciples to him: ‘ Woe is unto us that 
we must see thee in this condition.” And he replied: “Woe 
would be unto me if ye did not see me in this condition.” 


Why was he called Nahum the man of Gim-Zu?+ Because 


whenever something happened to him he would say: “Gam Zu 
Le-Toboh” (This also is for good). 

It once happened that the Israelites had to send a present to 
the imperial house, and Nahum was selected to carry out the 
mission, because it was quite usual for miracles to be performed 





* Here follow the questions put to and answered by Ilpha, which are, however, 
not essential in this tract, and which will appear in Tract Kethuboth. 

¢ According to Zach. Frankel, in his work about the generations of the Tanaim 
and Amoraim, and also according to Dr. I. M. Wise, Dr. H. Strack, and Mielziner, 
Nahum was a resident of Gimzo, a town in southwestern Judea. 


#> 





TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 57 


on his account. They intrusted to him a casket containing pre- 
cious stones and pearls. When he arrived at his quarters for 
the night, thieves became aware of his treasure, and they removed 
the valuables contained in the casket, substituting therefor dry 
earth. When he arrived at the imperial palace, the casket was 
opened, and it being observed that it contained nothing but 
earth, the emperor became very wroth and determined to destroy 
all the Jews, thinking that they had merely mocked him. WNa- 
hum, however, said to himself: “ Even this will lead to good.” 
When a conference was held as to the manner in which the Jews 
were to be destroyed, Elijah appeared disguised as one of the 
councillors, and after the conference said: ‘“‘ Perhaps this earth is 
of the greatest value, as it may be the same earth which Abra- 
ham their father had within his domain, and which possessed the 
merit of turning into swords which would cut down the enemy 
when thrown at a hostile army. The coarser pieces would turn 
into arrows when thrown at the enemy, as it is written [Isaiah, 
xli. 2]: ‘He rendered as earth his sword, as driven stubble his 
bow.’” * 

His advice was taken, and they said: “There is one land 
which we cannot conquer, let us try this earth and test its 
powers.” This was done, and the land was conquered. The 
earth was thereupon deposited in the treasury, and the casket 
filled with precious stones and pearls. Nahum (who had been 
kept a prisoner in the meantime) was sent away with an escort 
and laden with great honors. On the return, it happened that 
Nahum and his escort had to pass the night in the same quarters 
where the precious stones had previously been stolen. When it 
was observed with what honors Nahum returned, he was asked 
what gifts he had brought the emperor, to be thus honored. He 
replied: “I brought the same casket there that I took away with 
me from this place.” The men then, thinking that their earth 
was so valuable, tore down their houses, gathered up the earth, 
and sent it to the emperor, saying: “The earth which Nahum 
brought thee was our earth and not that of the Jews, for we took 
out the precious stones contained in his casket when he spent 
the night here and substituted this earth.” The earth was ex- 
amined and found to be unlike the other, so the senders were 
all put to death. 

“ What is considered a pestilence? If ina city capable of fur- 





* This is a literal and not a figurative translation of that verse. 


58 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


uishing five hundred able-bodied men,’ etc. The rabbis taught: 
A town that can furnish fifteen hundred able-bodied men—as, 
e.g. the village of Ako—and nine deaths occurred in three days, 
7.¢., three deaths each on three consecutive days, is said to be 
afflicted with pestilence. If, however, all the nine died in one 
day or in four days, it is not considered a pestilence. A town 
that has not more than five hundred able-bodied persons—e.g., 
the village of Amigo—and three deaths occurred in three days, 
7.é., one on each consecutive day, can be said to be afflicted with 
a pestilence. If, however, all three died in one day or in four 
days, no pestilence can be said to exist (for it is considered as 
only an accident). 

In the town of Darograth, which had five hundred able-bodied 
persons, three deaths occurred in one day, and R. Na’hman the 
son of R. Hisda ordered a fast-day. Said R. Na’>hman bar Itz’hak 
tohim: ‘“ Thou art presumably of the opinion of R. Meir, who 
regards a bull as vicious if he had gored three men in one day (as 
explained in Tract Baba Kamma).”’ 

R. Na’hman bar Hisda requested R. Na’hman bar Itz’hak 
to remove to his (the former’s) city (so that they could study 
together). Said the latter: We have learned in a Boraitha: R. 
Jose said: Not the place where he lives makes the man distin- 
guished, but the man makes the place distinguished. And so 
we find with respect to Mount Sinai, that so long as the Shek- 
hina rested there, cattle were not allowed to graze even near 
the mountain, as it is written [Exod. xxxiv. 3]: “ Neither let 
flocks or herds feed near the mount,” and after the Shekhina 
had withdrawn from the mount, it is written [Exod. xix. 13]: 
““They may come up to the mount.” A similar instance can be 
found with respect to the Tabernacle, near which the leprous 
could not come (as well be explained in Tract Menachoth). 

Said R. Na’hman bar Hisda to him: “If this be so, then will 
I go to the place where thou, Master, dwellest.””. And he an- 
swered: “Nay, that would not be right; for thou art a rabbi 
and a son of a rabbi, while Iam the son of one who was not 
among the scholars; therefore it would be more fitting that I 
should come to thee.” 

It happened that pestilence raged in Sura, but in the neigh- 
borhood where Rabh resided the pestilence was not prevalent. 
The townsmen concluded that this was due to the especial merits 
of Rabh; but in a dream they were told that this would be but a 
small object wherewith to demonstrate Rabh’s merits, and that 


oe 








TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 59 


this was so in consideration of the merits of a man who lends 
his hoe and other digging-tools used for burials, without compen- 
sation. 

In Darograth there was a great conflagration, but in the 
neighborhood where R. Huna lived the fire did not reach, and it 
was thought that it was on account of the merits of R. Huna 
that it was spared; but they were also told in a dream that this 
would be but a small recognition of R. Huna’s merits, and that it 
was merely in consideration of a certain woman who would heat 
her oven and then place it at the disposal of such as desired to 
bake their bread, without remuneration. 

R. Jehudah was apprised of the fact that locusts had made 
their appearance, and he ordered a fast-day. Subsequently he was 
told that the locusts were not doing any damage, and he replied : 
“ Did the locusts then bring their food with them?” 

R. Jehudah was also advised that a pest had broken out among 
the swine, and he ordered a fast-day. Does then R. Jehudah 
hold that if a pest break out among one kind of animals it affects 
all others? Nay; but with swine it is different, for the entrails of 
a swine are similar to those of a human being (and the pest may 
prove contagious). 

Samuel was told that a pest had broken out in Huzai, so he 
ordered a fast-day. He was reminded, however, that the place 
was a great distance off, and he replied: “Is there then a parti- 
tion between here and there that would prevent the entrance of 
the pest in this place?” 

R. Na’hman was told that a pest had broken out in Palestine, 
so he ordered a fast-day, saying: “If the princess is stricken, 
surely the slaves are affected.” Is it only when a princess is 
stricken that a slave is affected? What about slave and slave? 
Did not Samuel order a fast-day in Neherdai when Huzai was 
stricken? From Huzai to Neherdai there was a regular caravan 
traffic, and Samuel apprehended lest one of the caravans should 
carry the pest from Huzai into Neherdai. 

Abba the (expert) bleeder received greetings every day from 
the heavenly college ; Abayi received such a greeting only once 
every eve of Sabbath ; and Rabha would receive such a greeting 
only once every eve of the Day of Atonement. Abayi was 
grieved because of the greater distinction conferred upon Abba, 
and he was told: “The things that Abba does, thou canst not 
do.” [What did Abba do that was soinimitable? First of all, he 
had a separate place for bleeding men and a separate place for 


60 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


women. Then he had a certain garment for women with which 
he would clothe them, and which was split so that he could insert 
the lancet at any place without looking at the woman. Then he 
had a certain place where his fee for bleeding was deposited, and 
which was so arranged that as soon as it was touched a ring 
was heard; but he never looked at the amount deposited, and 
those that had not the necessary amount would merely touch the 
place and depart. If a young scholar came to him to be bled, 
he would not alone refuse to accept money, but would give him 
money, saying: “ Take this and become well, for after bleeding 
a good meal should be eaten.” ] 

One day Abayi sent two of his disciples to Abba to examine 
into his actions. Abba entertained them with meat and drink, 
and even made for them couches of fine wool to use as beds. 
On the morrow the disciples folded up their woollen couches and 
carried them into the market in order to sell them. They there 
encountered Abba. Said they to him: “Let Master estimate the 
worth of these.”” And he said: “So much.”’ And they rejoined : 
“Perhaps they are worth more.” And he answered: “For so 
much money I can purchase them.” Said they to him: “ These 
couches are thine; we took them from thee.” And they con- 
tinued: “What didst thou suspect us of?” And he replied: 
“TI thought that perhaps some prisoners had to be ransomed, and 
ye did not wish to tell me what amount that would require last 
night. So ye took the couches, and probably thought to tell me 
this day.’””’ They then said: “Then take them back; they are 
thine.” ‘But he answered: “Nay; I have already made up my 
mind to devote them to charitable purposes, and hence I cannot 
take them back.” 

Rabha was grieved over the greater distinction conferred 
upon Abayi, who was greeted on the eve of every Sabbath, while 
he only received the heavenly greeting on the eve of every Day 
of Atonement; so he was told that it was sufficient for him that 
the entire town where he lived profited by his merits. 

To R. Beroka of Huzaah, Elijah would frequently appear, 
when he (R. Beroka) would be standing in the market of Be- 
Lepht. One day he asked Elijah whether there was any one in 
the market who would have a share in the world to come, and 
Elijah answered: “Nay.” Suddenly Elijah perceived a man 
wearing black shoes, and the garments of that man had no show- 
threads. So he pointed him out to R. Beroka, and said: “That 
man will have a share in the world to come.” R. Beroka ran up 





TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 61 


to the man and asked him his occupation, and the man answered: 
“T have not time to-day. Come on the morrow.” On the mor- 
row R. Beroka again approached him and asked to know his 
occupation. The man replied: “I am a warden of a prison; I 
keep the men and women prisoners in separate compartments, 
and my own bed stands between the two compartments. There 
I sleep alone, and take care that no evil acts are perpetrated. If 
there is a daughter of Israel upon whom evil eyes have been cast 
(by the higher officials), I do my utmost, even at a personal sacri- 
fice, to save her. One day it happened that a betrothed girl, 
upon whom the higher officials had cast an eye, was brought to 
my prison; so I took lees of wine, spread them over her couch, 
and said to the officials that she was suffering from her menstru- 
ation and could not be approached.” 

R. Beroka then asked the warden why he wore black shoes 
and garments without show-threads, and he replied: “In order 
that I should not be recognized asa Jew; for thus, if I hear of any 
plots that are formed against the welfare of my co-religionists, I 
can immediately advise the rabbis that they may pray to God to 
avert the impending calamity. And yesterday, when thou didst 
approach me, I told thee to come on the morrow, because I had 
heard a discussion pertaining to action to be taken against the 
Jews and I hastened to learn the true facts of the case.”’ 

Again it happened that two brothers were passing by, and 
Elijah said to R. Beroka: “These two brothers shall also have a 
share in the world to come.”’ R. Beroka approached them and 
asked to know their occupations, and they replied: “Our occu- 
pation is to cheer and comfort all those who are downcast, and 
when we see two men quarrelling, to make peace between them.” 

“ An alarm should be sounded in all places for the following 
plagues,’ etc. The rabbis taught: For a corn-blast, mildew, 
locusts, crickets, and attacks of wild beasts an alarm must be 
sounded wherever they make their appearance. And R. Agiba 
said: “ For the first two, as soon as they make their appearance 
ever so slightly in any place, an alarm must be sounded; but for 
locusts, as soon as the wing of one single locust is perceived in 
Palestine, an alarm must be immediately sounded.” 

“ Attacks of wild beasts.’ The rabbis taught: “ For attacks 
of wild beasts an alarm should be sounded only if it is obvious 
that the attacks are in the nature of a curse, but otherwise no 
alarm need be sounded. How can the distinction be made? If 
the wild beasts are seen ina city, then it is to be considered in 


62 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


the nature of a curse; but if they are seen in the field, it is noth- 
ing unusual. If seen in the day it is a curse, at night it is not. 
If the wild beast saw and pursued two men together, then it is a 
curse; but if it slank away and sought to hide, it is not. If the 
wild beast killed two men and only devoured one, it is to be con- 
sidered a curse; but if it devoured both (then it was simply hun- 
gry, and) it is not considered a curse. If the beast climbed up 
on a roof and snatched a child from the cradle, it is most assuredly 
a curse.” 

“ Hosts of armed men.” The rabbis taught: Even if hosts of 
armed men are seen, who have no intention of attacking the 
place, but merely desire to pass through to make war upon others, 
an alarm must nevertheless be sounded; for there can be no 
more friendly intentions in a host of armed men than in that 
which was sent by Necho, King of Egypt, to Josiah, King of 
Judah, and still Josiah lost his life on their account, as it is writ- 
ten [II Chron. xxxv. 21]: “ But he (Necho, King of Egypt) sent 
ambassadors to him (Josiah), saying: What have I to do with 
thee, thou King of Judah? I come not against thee this day, but 
against the house wherewith I have war, and God hath com- 
manded me to make haste: forbear thee from meddling with 
God who is with me, that He may not destroy thee.” What is 
meant by “God who is with me”? What God could Necho 
have had with him? Said R. Jehudah in the name of Rabh: 
“Tt was an idol, and for the reason that Necho had confidence 
in the idol, Josiah thought that he could surely vanquish him in 
battle.” 

Further it says [ibid. 23]: “And the archers shot at King 
Josiah ; and the king said to his servants: Carry me away; for I 
am sorely wounded.’ What is meant by ‘sorely wounded” ? 
Said R. Jehudah in the name of Rabh: “From that it may be 
inferred that his whole body was perforated by the arrows like a 
sieve.” Before Josiah died, Jeremiah the prophet noticed that 
his lips were moving, and thinking that, God forbid, he was say- 
ing something blasphemous on account of the terrible pain he 
was suffering, Jeremiah stooped down and heard Josiah justify- 
ing the judgment which had befallen him, saying the passage 
[Lament. i. 18]: “ Righteous is the Lord; for against his orders 
have I rebelled.” Whereupon Jeremiah lamented his death with 
the words [ibid. iv. 20]: ‘“ The breath of our nostrils, the anointed 
of our Lord, was caught in their pits.” 

“ Should be sounded even on Sabbath.” The rabbis taught : 








TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 63 


On account of a city surrounded by foes, a ship that was wrecked 
at sea, or even on account of an individual pursued by foes, rob- 
bers, or evil spirits, a man may keep a fast-day himself (without 
waiting for the order instituting it). R. Jose, however, said: 
“ A man is not allowed to do this by himself, lest he become 
weak through fasting and unable to work, when he would become 
dependent upon others who might have no pity for him, because 
he himself was the one responsible for his condition.” Said R. 
Jehudah in the name of Rabh: “ What reason has R. Jose for 
this assertion? Because it is written [Genesis, ii. 7]: ‘ And the 
man became a living being,’ which implies, that man should let 
the living soul, given him by the Creator, live and not wilfully 
kill it.” 

“Simeon the Temanite says,’ etc. We have learned in a 
Boraitha: For a pest an alarm should be sounded on a Sabbath, 
and so much the more on a week-day; but R. Hanan bar Pitom, 
the disciple of R. Aqiba, said in the name of his Master that for 
a pest no alarm need be sounded even on a week-day. 

“On account of every plague,’ etc. The rabbis taught: On 
account of every plague—with which may the community never 
be visited—an alarm should be sounded, except on account of an 
excess of rain. What is the reason? Said R. Johanan: “ Be- 
cause it is not permitted to pray for the cessation of too much 
good.” Said Rami bar R. Jod: “In the land of exile (Babylon) 
an alarm should be sounded for an excess of rain.” We have 
also learned in a Boraitha that in a year when there is an excess 
of rain the priests of the weekly watch would send word to the 
standing men: “ Take care of your brethren in exile, that their 
houses may not become their graves.” 

The rabbis taught: It is written [Lev. xxvi. 4]: “ Then will 
I give you rains in their due season,” which means, that the earth 
shall not become too full of water nor that it shall be thirsty, but 
have just sufficient ; for if there is too much rain, the earth be- 
comes too sodden and fruit cannot grow. Another explanation 
of the term “in their due season”’ is, that the rains will fall on 
the night of the fourth day of the week and on the night of Sab- 
bath, when men do not go out; for so do we find, that in the 
days of Simeon ben Sheta’h rain fell only on those nights, and 
grain prospered so that wheat-grains became as testicles, barley- 
corns as the kernels of olives, and lentils as golden Dinars ; and 
part of these fruits of the earth were preserved to show to future 
generations, in order to demonstrate to them that the only reason 


64 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


why crops were not as prosperous as they formerly were was be- 
cause of the transgressions of the people, as it is written [Jere- 
miah, v. 25]: “ Your iniquities have turned away these things, 
and your sins have withholden what is good from you.” 

So it was also at the time when Herod built the new Temple. 
It would rain only at night, and in the morning the wind would 
‘disperse the clouds, the sun would commence to shine, and the 
people would go to their work in peace, so that all men knew 
that they were engaged in a heavenly undertaking. 

“Tt once happened that Hont Hama’ gel,” etc. The rabbis taught : 
It once happened the greater part of the month of Adar had 
passed, and no rain had yet fallen. Honi Hama’gel was there- 
upon requested to pray for rain. He prayed, but no rain de- 
scended. So he marked out a circle around him, the same as 
Habakkuk did, as it is written [ Habakkuk, ii. 1]: “‘ Upon my watch 
will I stand, and place myself upon the tower,” placed himself 
in the midst of it, and said: “Creator of the universe! Thy 
children have always looked up towards me as being like a son 
of Thy house before Thee. I swear therefore, by Thy great 
Name, that I shall not move from this place until Thou shalt have 
compassion upon Thy children.” Whereupon the rain com-. 
menced to drop down gently. Said the disciples to him: “ May 
it be that we may see thee and not die; for we think that the 
rain is merely dropping in order to release thee from thy vow.” 
And he replied: “It was not for this I prayed, but for rain suffi- 
cient to fill the wells, cisterns, and caves.” The rain then fell in 
torrents, each drop being as large as the mouth of a barrel, and 
the sages opined that each drop contained no less than a lug of 
water. The disciples again said to him: “ Rabbi, may we see 
thee and not die! We believe that the rain is falling in order to 
destroy the world.” He again said: “ Not for such rains have I 
prayed; but for mild, felicitous, and liberal showers.” The rain 
then descended in the usual manner, until the Israelites of Jeru- 
salem were obliged to seek refuge from the city to the Temple 
mount on account of the rain. They then came to him and said: 
“ Rabbi, even as thou didst pray that the rain might descend, 
thus pray now that it may cease.” And he replied: “I have a 
tradition that it is not permitted to pray for a cessation of too 
much good. Still, bring me a praise-offering.” It was accord- 
ingly brought to him, and putting both hands upon it, he said: 
“Creator of the universe! Thy people which Thou hast brought 
out of Egypt cannot be sustained either with too much evil or too 





TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 65 


much good. When Thou becamest angry with them, they could 
no longer bear it; and now that Thou hast showered too much 
good (rain) upon them, they cannot bear it either. Let it be Thy 
will that the rains may cease and the world become happy.” 
Thereupon a wind came up, dispersed the clouds, the sun com- 
menced to shine, and the people went out into the fields and 
brought back mushrooms. 

Simeon ben Sheta’h then sent him word, saying: If thou wert 
not Honi, I would order that thou be anathematized; for were 
these years as those when Elijah said that no rain should fall 
and when he had the key to the rain, thou wouldst have 
merely desecrated the Holy Name; but what shall I do with 
thee, since thou art petulant towards God, and yet He forgiveth 
and indulgeth thee like a petted child who is petulant towards 
its father, and says: “ Father, bathe me in hot water, bathe me 
in cold water, give me nuts, almonds, apricots, and pomegra- 
nates,’ and is nevertheless forgiven and indulged? To thee 
may be applied the passage [Prov. xxiii. 25]: “Let thy father 
and thy mother rejoice, and let her that hath born thee be 
glad.” 

The rabbis taught: What was the word which the Sanhedrin 
sitting in the chamber of marble sent to Honi Hama’gel after the 
occurrence? They cited the passage [ Job, xxii. 28]: “ And if thou 
decree a thing, it will be fulfilled unto thee; and upon thy ways 
the light will shine,” and said: “ Thou hast decreed below, and 
the Holy One, blessed be He, ratified it above, and the genera- 
tion which was in darkness thou hast enlightened with thy 
prayer.” 

R. Johanan said: All the days of this righteous man (Honi), 
he troubled himself concerning the meaning of the passage 
[Psalms, cxxvi. 1]: “ When the Lord bringeth back again the 
captivity of Zion, then shall we be like dreamers.” Honi would 
constantly say: “ How can a man sleep or be like a dreamer for 
seventy years?’ Once he was travelling on the road, and he 
noticed a man planting a carob-tree. He asked him how many 
years it would take before the tree would bear fruit, and the man 
answered : “ Seventy years.” Honi then asked: “ Art thou, then, 
sure that thou wilt live seventy years?” And the man replied: 
“T found carob-trees in existence when I came into the world, 
consequently my ancestors must have planted them. Why 
should I not also plant them for my children?” About that 
time Honi became hungry, and sat down to eat near the newly 


5 


66 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


planted tree. After the meal he fell asleep, and a bay * formed 
about him so that he could not be noticed, and thus he slept for 
seventy years. When he awoke, he observed a man gathering the 
fruit from the carob-tree; and he asked the man: “ Didst thou 
plant this tree?” The man replied: “ Nay; Iam the grandson of 
the man that planted it.” Honi then realized that he must have 
slept for seventy years, and when he looked around for his ass, 
he noticed that there were many smaller asses. He then went to 
his home, and inquired whether the son of Honi Hama’gel was 
still alive. He was told that the son was no longer living, but 
that a son of the son was alive. He then said: “I am Honi 
Hama’gel”; but they would not believe him. He went to the 
house of learning and heard them say: “To-day the Halakhoth 
are as clear as in the days of Honi Hama’gel, who would im- 
mediately render a clear decision when any questions whatever 
were put to him by the rabbis.”” He went in and said to them: 
“Tam that Honi’’; but they would not believe him, nor would 
they accord him due respect. This caused him to become down- 
cast and despondent, and he prayed to God that he might die, 
and so he died. Said Rabha: “ This illustrates the saying: ‘Give 
me the glory due me, or give me death.’” 

Abba Helkyah was a grandson of Honi Hama’gel. When 
the country was in need of rain the rabbis would send to him, 
and he would pray for rain, which thereupon commenced to fall. 
One day the country was in need of rain, and the rabbis sent a 
committee of two younger rabbis to him, with the request that 
he pray for rain. They came to his house, but did not find him. 
They went to his field, and found him weeding it. They greeted 
him, but he made no reply. On his way back to his home, he 
placed some wood and the hoe on one shoulder and a garment 
on the other shoulder. The entire way he did not wear shoes, 
but whenever he came to water which he had to ford he would 
put them on. When he came to a thorny path, he would raise 
his garments. When he came to the city, his wife met him 
dressed in fine apparel. When he reached his house, his wife 
entered first, then he, and finally the two young rabbis entered. 
He sat down to his meal, but extended no invitation to the 
rabbis to join him. When dealing out bread to his children, he 
gave the elder one loaf and the younger two. Afterwards he 





* The Hebrew term is ‘‘ Meshunitha.” Rashi explains it to mean a rock, while 
the dictionaries define it as given in our text. 





TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 67 


said to his wife in a low voice: “I know that these rabbis came 
on account of rain. Come, let us go up into the attic and pray 
for rain, and should the Lord have mercy on His children and 
cause it to rain, it will not appear as if it came about through us.” 
They went up into the attic, and he stood in one corner, while 
she stood in another. The rain-cloud appeared in the direction 
where the wife was standing. 

When he went down again, he said to the rabbis: “ What 
hath brought the rabbis here?’”’ And they replied: ‘“ The rabbis 
have sent us to Master that he may pray for rain.” And he 
answered: “ Blessed be the. Lord, that ye no longer need Abba 
Helkyah’s favor.” Said they to him: “ We well know that this 
rain is come only on account of Master, still we should like to 
know the reason for several actions on his part which appear to 
us surprising. Why, when we greeted the Master, did he not turn 
his face towards us?” He replied: “I hired myself out for the 
day and my time was not my own, hence I did not wish to waste 
any.” ‘Why did the Master carry the wood on one shoulder 
and the garment on the other?” “ Because the garment was bor- 
rowed by me to wear, but not to use as a pad for wood.” 
“Why did the Master go barefooted all the way, and put on 
his shoes when coming to water?” “ Because the entire way I 
could see what I was stepping on, but in water I could not.” 
“Why did the Master raise his dress when walking in a thorny 
path?” “ Because if my flesh should receive a scratch, it will 
heal; but if the garment should become torn it cannot be 
mended.” ‘Why, when the Master came to the city, did his 
wife come forth to meet him, dressed in her best apparel?” 
“In order that I may not look at any other woman.” ‘Why 
did she enter first, then the Master, and then we?” “ Because 
I know nothing about you.” ‘ Why, when the Master sat down 
to eat, did he not invite us to partake also?’’ ‘“ Because there 
was not sufficient bread for all, and I did not wish to invite you 
merely to receive your thanks in vain.” ‘ Why did the Master 
give the elder child one loaf and the younger two?” “ Because 
the elder was at home all day and probably helped himself pre- 
viously, but the younger was at school all day and more hun- 
gry.” “ Why did the rain-cloud appear first in thy wife’s cor- 
ner?”’ “Because my wife is always at home, and when a poor 
man begs for a meal she always gives it to him readily, while I 
can but give him a Zuz and he must first go and purchase food 
for it. Thus her charity is more effective than mine.” 


68 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Hanan the Hidden was a son of the daughter of Honi Hama’- 
gel. When the country was in need of rain, the rabbis would send 
the school-children to him, who would surround him, take hold of 
his garments, and cry: “Father, father, give us rain!” And 
he would say to the Holy One, blessed be He: “Creator of the 
universe! Cause rain to descend, for the sake of those who can- 
not distinguish between a father capable of giving rain and one 
who is not.’”’ Why was he called Hanan the Hidden? Because 
whenever he would do some good, he would hide himself so as 
not to be observed. 

Said R. Z’reiqa to R. Saphra: ‘Come and see the difference 
between the pious of Babylon and the righteous of Palestine. 
The pious of Babylon—e.g., R. Huna and R. Hisda—when the 
country was.in need of rain, would say: ‘“‘ Let us combine and 
pray to God, perhaps we shall find favor in His eyes, and He 
will give us rain’’; and the righteous of Palestine—e.g., R. Jonah 
the father of R. Mani—when the country was needing rain, 
would go to his house, ask for a sack, and say: “I will go to the 
market and buy a Zuz’ worth of grain.” When going out he 
would seek a deep place, as it is written [Psalms, cxxx. 1]: “ Out 
of the depths have I called to thee, O Lord,” and he would sta- 
tion himself in a hidden place, cover himself with the sack, and 
offer up a prayer for rain to the Lord, and forthwith rain would 
descend. When returning home, he would be asked: “ Didst 
thou buy the grain fora Zuz?” And he would reply: “I no- 
ticed that it commenced to rain, and hence thought it unneces- 
sary to go to the market for it, as it can be had now anywhere.” 

Again it happened that R. Mani the son of Jonah was sorely 
troubled by the members of the house of the Nassi (prince); so 
he went and threw himself on his father’s grave, exclaiming: 
“ Father, father, the men of the house of the Nassi are troubling 
me.” One day the retainers of the Nassi were riding by the 
burial ground where Jonah was interred, and their horses could 
not proceed until they vowed not to trouble R. Mani any more. 

R. Mani would frequently come to the house of R. Itz’hak 
ben Aliashib, and he once told R. Itz’hak that the members of 
his father-in-law’s family were giving him much trouble. Said R. 
Itz’hak: ‘“ May they become poor!”’ and they really did become 
poor. R. Mani then came again, and complained that now his 
relatives were poor they were compelling him to support them. 
Said R. Itz’hak: “May they then become rich again!” and ac- 
cordingly they became rich. 





* 


SAV eS Oe aes ee See om ee ee 





Oa ee ee ee ee, ee Ce ee, ee ee ee ee 


TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 69 


At another time R. Mani complained to R. Itz’hak that his 
wife was too ill-favored. Said R. Itz’hak: “ What is her name?” 
And R. Mani replied: “Hannah.” Said R. Itz’hak: ‘“ May 
Hannah become handsome!” and accordingly she became hand- 
some. Subsequently R. Mani came again, and complained that 
now his wife had become handsome she made life a burden to 
him by her vanity, and R. Itz’hak said: “ May Hannah again 
become ugly!” and Hannah again became ugly. 

Some time later, two disciples of R. Itz’hak ben Aliashib 
begged him to pray to the Lord for them, that they might be- 
come wiser and more capable for study. Said he to them: “I 
used to do that at one time and would succeed; but I have 
stopped that practice and shall not do it again.” 

Elazar the man of Birtha would be shunned by the men who 
were sent out to collect money for charitable purposes, because 
he would give away everything he had. One day he went out 
into the market to buy the articles necessary for the proper cele- 
bration of his daughter’s marriage. The collectors of alms per- 
ceived him, and hid themselves. He, however, pursued and 
overtook them, and said: “I adjure you, tell me for what purpose 


e are sent out now and what ye need.” And they answered: 
¥ y y 

“ We are collecting money for two orphans who are about to be 
married.” Said he: “I vow they have precedence over my 


daughter.” And he gave them everything he had, with the ex- 
ception of one Zuz, for which he bought some wheat and de- 
posited it in his storehouse. The mother (Elazar’s wife) said 
to the daughter: “What did your father bring?’’ And the 
daughter replied: “All that he brought he deposited in the 
storehouse.” She then went to the storehouse, but could not 
open the door, as the wheat was piled up so high and the store- 
house was so full that the wheat forced its way through the 
cracks in the walls. Thereupon she betook herself to the house 
of learning, where Elazar her husband was studying, and calling 
him out, said: “Come and see what thy friend did for thee.” 
Arriving at the storehouse, Elazar said: “I vow that all this 
wheat is devoted to the poor, and thou hast but a share in it 
equal to the other poor.” 

R. Jehudah Hanassi (the Second) once ordered a fast-day and 
prayed for rain, but without success. Said he: “ What a differ- 
ence there is between Samuel the prophet and Jehudah the son 
of Gamaliel! Woe is to the generation that has retrograded to 
such an extent and woe to the Nassi (prince) who hath witnessed 


70 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


it.” He became very despondent, and forthwith rain began to 
fall. 

A fast-day was ordered from the house of the Nassi, and no 
previous notice thereof was given to R. Johanan and Resh Lakish. 
Said R. Johanan to Resh Lakish: “ What shall we do? We did 
not take it upon ourselves to fast to-day or yesterday? Re- 
plied Resh Lakish: ‘“‘We are dependent upon the Nassi; hence 
it is not necessary for us to take it upon ourselves a day in 
advance.” 

Again it happened that the house of the Nassi ordered a fast- 
day; but no rain descended. So Oshiya, the youngest of the 
colleagues, taught: It is written [Numb. xv. 24]: “Then shall 
it be, if through inadvertence of the congregation it was com- 
mitted by ignorance,” which is a simile to a bride in the house of 
her father—if she have beautiful eyes, there is no need of exam- 
ining her body, but if her eyes be bad her entire body should be 
examined (z.¢., if the prince of the congregation be a righteous 
man, the congregation need not be tried, but if he be wicked the 
congregation itself must be examined). So the servants of the 
Nassi came to Oshiya, threw a cloth over his neck, and tortured 
him. Said the townsfolk to the servants: “ Let him be, for 
though he often offends us with his sayings, still, as we see that 
he means well and does so for our good, we let him have his own 
way.” 

Rabbi once ordered a fast-day, but no rain descended. So 
Ilpha, others say R. Ilphi, went up to the reading-desk to pray. 
As soon as he came to the sentence, “‘ He causeth the wind to 
blow,” a wind sprang up; and when he said, “He causeth the 
rain to descend,” rain began to fall. So Rabbi asked Ilpha: 
“What are thy merits?” And he answered: “I live in a very 
small town, where it is almost impossible to obtain any wine for 
the Kiddush and the Habdalah on the Sabbath; but I go to 
great trouble to procure it and distribute among my townsmen, 
and when reciting the Kiddush prayer I also include my towns- 
men in the prayer.” 

Rabh came to a certain place and ordered a fast-day, but no 
rain descended. The minister of the congregation went up to 
the reading-desk and commenced to pray. Arriving at the sen- 
tence, ‘“‘ He causeth the wind to blow,” a wind sprang up; and as 
soon as he said, “‘ He causeth the rain to descend,” rain began to 
fall. Said Rabh to him: “What are thy merits?” And he 
answered: “I teach little children, and treat the children of the 


eS et ee eee ewe ce 














TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). or: 


poor like the children of the rich. Those that cannot afford to 
pay, I teach without remuneration; and being also a fisherman, 
I persuade those who do not wish to come and learn, to do so by 
giving them fish to take home with them.” 

R. Na’hman ordered a communal fast. He prayed for rain, 
which, however, did not come. And hesaid to the people: “Take 
ye Na’hman and throw him from the roof to the ground.” He 
became downcast, and rain commenced to fall. Rabba ordered 
a fast, he prayed, and no rain came. And they said to him: 
“But when R. Jehudah orders a fast, then rain comes.” He 
replied: “What can Ido? In point of learning we are better 
than they; for in the years of R. Jehudah all their studies were 
confined to the Section of Damages, while we study now all the 
six sections. And when R. Jehudah came to the Section of 
Taharath (Purification), Tract Ugqtsin, and the Halakha, ‘When 
a woman put herbs in a pot,’ or, according to others, to the Hala- 
kha, ‘If olives were soaked with their leaves, they are clean,’ * 
R. Jehudah used to say: ‘I find it as deep as would befit the 
times of Rabh and Samuel.’ But we have thirteen colleges which 
are studying the Tract Ugqtsin, and nevertheless when R. Jehudah 
would put off one shoe, the rain would come; and we are crying 
the whole day, and there is nobody to look at us. And if one 
might say, R. Jehudah was better than we by his deeds, then if 
there is any one here that knows we have not acted rightly, let 
him say so; but the true reason is, what can the leaders of the 
generation do, when the generation itself is not good?” 

R. Jehudah saw once two men throwing bread at each other, 
and he said: “I see from this that there is plenty in the world.” 
He cast an evil eye, and a famine began. Said the rabbis to R. 
Kahna the son of R. Nahuniah: “ We have heard that the Mas- 
ter frequents the house of R. Jehudah: cause him to go into the 
market (he should become aware that a famine reigns).” He did 
so, and took him out into the market. He saw acrowd of men. 
He asked: “ What is the matter?’”’ He was answered: “ There 
is a measure of dates for sale, and each is eager to obtain it.”’ 
Said he: “I perceive from this that there is famine in the world.” 
He said to his servant : “‘ Take off my shoes.” He had taken off 
but one of his shoes, when it began to rain. . 

R. Mari the son of the daughter of Samuel said: “ At that 
time, when R. Jehudah had his shoes taken off, I stood on the 





* This will be explained in its place in Tract Ugqtsin. 


72 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


bank of the River Papa. I saw angels clad like sailors, who took 
sand, filled the ships therewith, and it was turned to fine flour, 
and the whole world came to buy it. Isaid to the persons of my 
household: ‘Do not buy of it, for it is only through a miracle, 
and I wish to derive no benefit from miracles.’ I waited till 
the morrow, when ships laden with wheat actually arrived from 
Parzina.” 

It happened once that Rabha came to the city of Hagrunia, 
and he ordered a fast, but no rain came. Said he to the people: 
“Fast over night.”” On the morrow morning he said to them: 
“Tf any one saw something in a dream, he should come to 
tell what he saw in the dream.” R. Elazar of the same city re- 
lated that he had been told in a dream the following words: 
“‘Good peace to the good master who received his knowledge 
from a good master, and who with his goodness is doing good to 
his people.” Said Rabha: “I infer from this that it is a favor- 
able time.” He prayed again, and rain came. 

It happened once that a man had committed a crime for 
which he had to receive stripes in a court where Rabha was the 
chief judge. Rabha had the penalty inflicted on him. He 
could not endure it, and died. When the government of Sabbor 
the king heard of this, they wanted to cause trouble to Rabha. 
Said Iphra Harmyz, the king Sabbor’s mother, to her son: “I 
advise you to have nothing to do with the Jews, for all that they 
request of theirGod, He grants to them.” Said he: “ What, for 
example?” Said she: “ Whenever they pray to God for rain, it 
rains.” Said he tothem: “That is only because they pray in 
the season when it has to rain. Now, when it is Tamuz [July], 
when it ought not to rain, let them pray for rain, and you shall 
see that it will not come.’’ So she sent for Rabha, and said to 
him: “ Fix your mind on it, and pray to God to send rain.” He 
prayed, and norain came. Said he: “ Before the Lord of the 
universe [Ps. xliv. 2] God, with our ears have we heard, our 
fathers have told us . . . in times of old, but we with our 
eyes do xot see it.” Then it rained so much that all the canals 
of Me’huza overflowed and the water spread in the streets into 
the River Tigris. His father appeared to him ina dream and 
told him: ‘Is there any other man who gives so many pains 
to Heaven? Go and change the place of your couch.’”’ On the 
morrow he found marks of a knife with which his bed had been 
slashed. 

R. Papa also ordered a fast: no rain came. Meanwhile he 





TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 73 


felt too weak from fasting. He took a spoonful of daitha [a 
kind of dish], and went on praying. Still, however, no rain 
came. R. Na’hman, his fellow-lodger in the inn,* said to him: 
“Tf the Master would partake of another spoon of daitha, then 
rain would surely come”’ (ironically). He felt shame, he became 
downcast, and rain came. (See Yomah, p. 76: ‘“R. Hanina b. 
Dosa,” etc.) 

Said R. Jehudah in the name of Rabh: “ Every day a heavenly 
Voice goes forth and says: ‘ The whole world is nourished merely 
by the merits of Hanina my son, and for Hanina alone one Kabh 
of carobs is sufficient from one Sabbath-eve to the other.’ ” 

The wife of Hanina would make a fire in her oven on the eve 
of every Sabbath in order not to be ashamed before her neigh- 
bors. She had, however, one bad neighbor who said: “I know 
that Hanina and his wife have nothing to cook for the Sabbath, 
why does she make fire in her oven? I shall go and see.” She 
went and knocked at the threshold, and Hanina’s wife became 
ashamed and went intoanother room. In the meantimea miracle 
happened, and the oven became filled with bread. The neighbor, 
noticing the bread in the oven, called to Hanina’s wife: “ Bring 
the bread-shovel, or the bread will be burned!” And she replied: 
“T just went in for that purpose.’’ We have learned in a Boraitha: 
Hanina’s wife really did go into the next room for a shovel, 
because she was accustomed to have miracles happen to her. 

One day the wife of R. Hanina said to him: “ How long shall 
we yet be troubled with the want of our daily bread?”’ And he 
replied: “What canI do?” Said she: “Pray to God that He 
should give thee something.” He accordingly went and prayed. 
A hand came forth and gave him a leg of a golden table. Sub- 
sequently his wife saw in a dream that all the righteous in heaven 
ate on golden tables having three legs, while her table only had 
two. Said she to Hanina: “ Wouldst thou then like it, that all 
should eat at a table having three legs, while we should eat at 
one only having two? Pray to God that the golden leg may be 
taken back.” He prayed, and the leg wastaken back. We have 
learned in a Boraitha that this latter miracle was even greater 
than the former; for we have a tradition, that it is usual for 
heaven to bestow but not to take back. 





* According to the Aruch the text should read, ‘‘ Bar-Ushpirti,” 7.¢., the son 
of Ushpirti, who was the mother of R. Papa, and he said to him thus: ‘‘ You, son 
of Ushpirti,” etc. 


74 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


One eve of Sabbath Hanina noticed his daughter in a de- 
spondent mood. Upon asking her what the trouble was, she 
replied: “I got the two vessels containing oil and vinegar mixed, 
and poured the latter into the Sabbath lamp and lit it.” Said he: 
“My daughter! why should that trouble thee? He who hath 
ordained that oil should burn can also ordain that vinegar should 
burn.” We have learned in a Boraitha that the vinegar in that 
lamp burned all night and all day, till some of it was used for the 
Habdalah prayer. 

R. Hanina ben Dosa had a few goats, and he was told that 
his goats caused damage to others. Said he: “If my goats do 
damage, may wolves devour them; but if they do not, may they 
each bring a bear impaled upon their horns.” That same even- 
ing, each goat really brought in a bear mounted on its horns. 

; How did Hanina happen to have goats? Was he not a poor 

man? Said R. Pinchas: “It once happened that a man left a 
few chickens at the house of Hanina, and the latter said to his 
wife: ‘Do not use the eggs, for the chickens do not belong to 
us.” Accordingly the eggs were left untouched, and in the 
course of time quite a number of chickens were produced, so that 
they became too troublesome, and Hanina sold them and with the 
proceeds purchased goats. Subsequently the man who left the 
chickens returned to claim them. He was asked for a description 
of his property, which he gave correctly, whereupon Hanina 
turned over the goats to him, and these are the goats that 
brought bears upon their horns.* 

The same Hanina had a neighbor who was building a house, 
and the beams were too short. So she came to him, and said: 
“T have built my house, but my beams do not reach far enough.” 
And he asked her hername. And she answered: “ Aikho.” He 
then said: “ Aikho, may thy beams become longer.’”’ We have 
learned in a Boraitha that they really became so long that they 
protruded an ell on each side, while others say that pieces were 
conjoined with the beams so that they attained the required 
length. We have learned in another Boraitha: “Plimo said: ‘I 
saw that house and noticed that the beams protruded an ell on 
each side. And I was told that the house was the one for which 
Hanina prayed to have the beams become longer.’”’ 

R. Hama bar Hanina ordered a fast-day, but no rain de- 





* According to Hananel and other commentaries the whole paragraph was inserted 
here from other sources than the Gemara. In the Ain Jacob this is not to be found. 





TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 75 


scended, and he was told: “ Why, R. Jehoshua ben Levi would 
order a fast-day, and rain would commence to fall!” Said he: 
“ That was the son of Levi, and not I!” And they said: “We 
meant to say, that we should again congregate, and perhaps, if 
we prove contrite of heart, the rain will descend.’ They did so, 
and still no rain descended. Said he to them: “Think ye that 
ye deserve rain to descend for you?” And they answered: 
“Yea.” Said he to the sky: “ Cover thy countenance.” No re- 
sults, however, were produced, and he exclaimed: “ How impu- 
dent are the skies!”” Whereupon they became covered, and rain 
commenced to fall. 

Levi ordered a fast-day, but no rain descended. Said he: 
“Creator of the universe! Thou didst ascend to the heavens, 
and didst sit down, but hast no compassion upon thy children.” 
Whereupon rain descended, but Levi fell and became lame. 

R. Hyya bar Lolaini heard one cloud say to another: ‘Come, 
let us go and deposit our waters in the lands of Ammon and 
Moab.” Said R. Hyya: “Creator of the universe! when thou 
gavest Thy Law to Israel, Thou hadst gone to other nations, 
offering it to them, and they would not accept it; and now Thou 
wouldst allow the clouds to pour forth their waters on their 
lands!” and turning to the clouds, he exclaimed: “ Pour forth 
your waters on this spot,” and they did so. 

The same R. Hyya preached: “It is written [Psalms, xcii. 
13]: ‘The righteous shall spring up like the palm-tree; like a 
cedar in Lebanon shall he grow high.’ Why are both the palm- 
tree and the cedar mentioned? If the palm-tree only were men- 
tioned, I would say that asa branch of the palm-tree which is 
broken off does not grow out again, so it will be with the right- 
eous—if he dies, he will leave no one in his stead; therefore a 
cedar is also mentioned, for with a cedar it is not so. And ifa 
cedar only were mentioned, I might say that as the cedar does 
not bear fruit, so will it also be with the righteous (which may 
God forbid). Hence the palm-tree is also mentioned.” 

The rabbis taught: It once happened that R. Eliezer ordered 
thirteen fast-days, but no rain descended. When the congrega- 
tion dispersed after the thirteenth fast-day, he asked them if they 
had already ordered their graves, and they commenced to weep 
aloud, whereupon rain commenced to fall. 

Another time it happened that R. Eliezer recited the twenty- 
four benedictions at prayer, but he was not answered. R. 
Agiba followed him at the reading-desk, and said: “ Father and 


76 ' THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


King! we have no other king but Thee. Only for Thy sake have 
mercy upon us!” And his prayer was answered. The people 
then began to murmur (and say that R. Aqiba was a greater 
man than R. Eliezer). A heavenly Voice went forth and said: 
“ Not because R. Aqiba is a greater man than R. Eliezer was his 
prayer answered, but because he always gives in to another, 
while R. Eliezer never did that.” 

The rabbis taught : How much rain should fall in order that the 
congregation may stop fasting? When the rain fills up a furrow 
made with a plough. So said R. Meir, but the sages say: If the 
water is a span deep on dry land, two spans on moist earth, and 
three spans on ploughed soil. 

“Tf while the people are fasting rain should fall before sun- 
rise.’ The rabbis taught: “If while the people are fasting 
rain should fall before sunrise they may stop fasting, but if after 
sunrise they must not. Such is the dictum of R. Meir. But R. 
Jehudah said: If it fell before noon they may stop fasting, but 
if after noon they should not. R. Jose, however, said: They may 
stop if rain fell before the end of the ninth hour (3 P. M.), but 
not if it fell after that hour. And so we find in the case of 
Achab, King of Israel, who fasted from the ninth hour on, and 
further, as it is written [I Kings, xxii. 29]: “Hast thou seen 
how Achab hath humbled himself before me?” (It is explained 
elsewhere that kings used to eat their meal at the ninth hour.) 

R. Jehudah Nesseah (the Second) ordered a fast-day, and rain 
commenced to fall after sunrise. He thereupon desired to stop © 
fasting, but R. Ami said to him: “ We have learned that if rain 
falls before noon or after noon there is a difference of opinion, 
but after sunrise all agree that fasting may be stopped.” 

Samuel the Little ordered a fast-day, and rain descended be- 
fore sunrise. The people wanted to infer therefrom that it was 
in praise of the congregation; for as soon as a fast was ordered, 
rain commenced to fall. Said Samuel to them: “This can be 
compared to acase of where a slave begs for something of his 
master, and the master says: ‘Give it to him! Ido not care 
even to hear his voice.’””’ 

Again it happened that the same Samuel ordered a fast-day, 
and rain fell after sunset. Then said the people: “Surely this is 
in praise of the congregation that after fasting and praying rain 
came.” Said he to them again: “ Nay, this is not to be con- 
sidered ; for it can be compared to a slave begging of his master, 
who says: ‘ Let him pray and trouble himself for some time be- 





TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 77 


, 


fore I will give it to him.’” What, then, does Samuel consider 
as praise for the congregation? If when the sentence is read, 
“He causeth the wind to blow,” a wind springs up, and when the 
sentence, “ He causeth the rain to descend,” is read, rain com- 
mences to fall. 

“In the evening they returned and sang the great Hallel.” 
Why should they return in the evening and say the Hallel? Let 
them say it beforehand? Abayi and Rabha both say: “ Hallel 
is not sung except with a satisfied soul and a well-filled stomach.” 
This is not so! For did it not happen that R. Papa ordered a 
fast-day in the synagogue of Abi Gober, and rain descended be- 
fore noon, when they sang the Hallel, and then ate and drank? 
With the inhabitants of Me’huza it is different, for they are 
generally drunkards, 


CHAPTER IV. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE PRIESTS’ BLESSING OF THE PEOPLE, 
THE INSTITUTION OF THE STANDING MEN—THEIR FASTS AND 
PRAYERS, THE FAST OF THE SEVENTEENTH DAY OF TAMUZ 
AND THE NINTH OF ABH, AND THE CELEBRATION OF THE FIF- 
TEENTH DAY OF ABH, 


MISHNA: At three periods of the year the priests shall raise 
their hands (to bless the people) at each prayer, (z.e.) four times 
on each day ; viz., during the morning, additional, afternoon, and 
closing prayer. (The three periods mentioned are:) On the fast- 
days, on the fast of the standing men, and on the Day of Atone- 
ment. 

(The reason for the institution of) these standing men is be- 
cause it is written [Numb. xxviii. 2]: “Command the children of 
Israel, and say unto them: My offering, my bread for my sacri- 
fices . . . shall ye observe,” etc. How can an offering be 
brought for a person without his being present (at the time when 
it is sacrificed)? Therefore did the elder prophets institute 
twenty-four watches (divisions): each watch always had a section 
of standing men, composed of priests, Levites, and Israelites, 
stationed at Jerusalem. When the turn of each watch came 
around to go up (from their cities to the Temple), the priests and 
Levites went up to Jerusalem, and the Israelites who belonged to 
that watch assembled in (the synagogues of) their cities to read 
the history of the creation (¢.e., the first chapter of Genesis). 

The standing men used to fast four times in the week; viz., 
from Monday until Thursday (inclusive), but they did not fast on 
Friday, on account of the honor due the Sabbath, nor on Sun- 
day, that they might not (too suddenly) pass over from rest and 
pleasure to weariness and fasting—for that might endanger their 
lives. On Sunday the standing men read (the sections com- 
mencing): “In the beginning,” etc. [Genesis, i. 1 to 5], and, “ Let 
there be an expansion,” etc. [ibid. 6, etc.]; on Monday they read : 
“Let there be an expansion,” and, “ Let the waters,” etc. [ibid. 
g, etc.]; on Tuesday: “Let the waters,” and, “Let there be 

78 





TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 79 


lights,” etc. [ibid. 14, etc.] ; on Wednesday : “ Let there be lights,” 
and, “ Let the waters bring forth,” etc. [ibid. 20, etc.]; on Thurs- 
day : “Let the waters bring forth,” and, “Let the earth bring 
forth,” etc. [ibid. 24, etc.]; on Friday: “Let the earth bring 
forth,” and, “Thus were finished,” etc. [ibid. ii. 1 to 4]. The 
long section of the day was read by two persons and the short by 
one; this was done, however, during the morning and additional 
prayers; but at the afternoon prayers they entered (the Syna- 
gogue) and recited the sections mentioned by heart, even as the 
Shema’ is recited. On Friday afternoon they did not go to the 
synagogue at all, in honor of the Sabbath. 

On the days on which the Hallel was sung, the standing men 
would not attend during the morning prayer (in Jerusalem). 
When there was an additional offering, they did not assemble at 
the time of the closing prayer. When a wood-offering was 
brought, they did not assemble during the afternoon prayer. 
Such is the dictum of R. Agiba; but Ben Azai said to him: “R. 
Jehoshua taught as follows: ‘ When there was an additional offer- 
ing, the standing men did not assemble during the afternoon 
prayer; and when a wood-offering was brought, they did not as- 
semble at the time of the closing prayer.’”’ Thereupon R. Agiba 
changed (his opinion) and taught like Ben Azai. 

The times when the delivery of wood (for the altar) was made 
by priests and people were on nine appointed days: viz., on the 
Ist day of Nissan, the family of Arah ben Jehudah (made the 
delivery); on the 20th of Tamuz, the family of David ben 
Jehudah ; on the 5th of Abh, the family of Par’os ben Jehudah; 
on the 7th of that month, the family of Jonadab ben Rekhab; 
on the 1oth of the same month, the family of Sinaha ben Benja- 
min; on the 15th of that month, the family of Zathoo ben 
Jehudah, and with them priests arid Levites, and all those who did 
not know from which tribe they were descended—also the family 
of Gonebe Eli and the family of Kotze’li Ketzi’oth; and on the 
20th, the family of Pa’hath Moab ben Jehudah; on the 2oth of 
Elul, the family of Adin ben Jehudah; and on the Ist of Tebeth, 
the family of Par’os for the second time. 

There was no meeting of the standing men on the Ist of 
Tebeth; because Hallel was sung and additional sacrifice and 
wood-offering were brought on that day. 

Five calamities happened to our ancestors on the 17th of 
Tamuz, and five on the gth of Abh: viz., on the 17th of Tamuz 
the tables of the Holy Law were broken; on that day the 


80 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


continual daily offerings ceased, and the city of Jerusalem was 
stormed; on the same date Apostamos burned the Holy Scrolls 
and placed an idol in the Temple;—on the oth of Abh it was 
decreed that our ancestors should not enter the Holy Land; on 
that day the first and second Temples were destroyed, the city 
of Bethar was taken, and the site (of Jerusalem) was ploughed 
up (like a field). From the Ist of Abh it is incumbent upon a 
person to lessen his participation in joyful events (until after 
the 9th of that month). 

During the week in which the 9th of Abh occurs, it is pro- 
hibited to a person to shave himself, or to wash (his clothes), 
but on Thursday this is allowed in honor of the Sabbath. On 
the day before the 9th of Abh a person should not partake of 
two different kinds of dishes of meat, nor may he drink any wine. 
Rabbon Simeon ben Gamaliel says: ‘‘ He should change’’ (his 
ordinary mode of living). R. Jehudah considers it obligatory 
for a person to turn over the bed places,* but the sages do not 
coincide with him. 

Rabbon Simeon ben Gamaliel said: Never were there any 
more joyous festivals in Israel than the 15th of Abh and the 
Day of Atonement, for on them the maidens of Jerusalem used 
to go out dressed in white garments—borrowed ones, however, 
in order not to cause shame to those who had none of their own. 
These clothes were also to be previously immersed, and thus the 
maidens went out and danced in the vineyards, saying: Young 
men, look and observe well whom you are about to choose (as a 
spouse); regard not beauty alone, but rather look to a virtuous 
family, for ‘‘ false is grace, and vain is beauty: a woman only 
that feareth the Lord shall indeed be praised’’ [Proverbs, xxxi. 
30]; and it is also said [ibid. 31]: ‘‘ Give her of the fruit of her 
hands, and let her own works praise her in her gates.’’ Thus 
also is it written (alluding to that custom): ‘‘ Go forth and look, 
O ye daughters of Zion, on King Solomon, with the crown 
wherewith his mother hath crowned him on the day of his 
espousals, and on the day of the joy of his heart’’ [Solomon’s 
Song, iii. 11]. ‘‘ The day of the espousals’’ refers to the day 
on which the Law was given, and “‘ the day of the joy of his 
heart’’ was that when the building of the Temple was com- 
pleted. May it soon be rebuilt in our days! 





* It was the general custom among the Israelites of that day to turn over the 
couches on which they sate during the day, and slept during the night, on any occa- 
sion of mourning and also as a sign of their being in actual mourning. 





TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 81 


GEMARA: “ A¢ three periods of the year,’’ etc. Is there 
then an additional prayer on fast-days and for the standing 
men? The Mishna is not complete, and should read thus: 
‘« At three periods of the year the priests shall raise their hands 
(to bless the people) at each prayer, and among such periods 
there are days when this is done four times during the day: 
viz., during the morning, the additional, the afternoon, and the 
closing prayers; and the three periods of the year are on fast- 
days, on the fast of the standing men, and on the Day of Atone- 
ment.’’ Said R. Na’hman in the name of Rabba bar Abbahu: 
‘“‘ Such is the dictum of R. Meir. But _the sages maintain that 
during the morning and additional prayers the priests raise their 
hands; but not during the afternoon and closing prayers.”’ 
Whose opinion is that attributed to the sages? That is the 
opinion of R. Jehudah, as we have learned in the following Bo- 
raitha: ‘‘In all the four prayers mentioned above, the priests 
are to raise their hands. This is the dictum of R. Meir, but R. 
Jehudah said that this is not done in the afternoon and closing 
prayers, while R. Jose maintains that it is not done in the after- 
noon prayer, but it zs done in the closing prayer.’’ Said R. 
Na’hman: ‘‘ The Halakha prevails according to the opinion of 
R. Jose.’’ And so it remains. 

Why is it, then, the custom at present that the priests raise 
their hands in the afternoon prayer of a fast-day ? Because the 
afternoon prayer is said very near to the time of sunset, it is 
regarded the same as the closing prayer. 

““ These standing men,’’ etc. Howis the Mishna to be under- 
stood? The Mishna means to say: ‘* These are the standing 
men, and the reason of their institution is because it is written,’”’ 
etc. 

The rabbis taught: ‘‘ There are twenty-four watches in the 
Land of Israel, and of these there are twelve in Jericho. When 
the watches were to go up to the Temple, half went up from all 
parts of the Land of Israel to Jerusalem, and the other half from 
Jericho.’’ Why were half of them in Jericho? Because they 
had to prepare food and drink for their brethren in Jerusalem. 

R. Jehudah said in the name of Samuel: Priests, Levites, 
and Israelites that compose the division of the standing men 
prevent, in the event of their absence, the offering of the sacri- 
fices. In a Boraitha we have learned: R. Simeon ben Elazar 
said: ‘‘ The priests, Levites, and the musical instruments pre- 
vent, by their absence, the offering of the sacrifices,’’ because he 

6 


82 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


holds that the chanting at the offering of the sacrifices must be 
accomplished mainly through the musical instruments, and not 
vocally. : 

R. Hama bar Guria said in the name of Rabh: Moses estab- 
lished for the Israelites only eight watches; viz., four for the 
descendants of Elazar the priest and four for those of Ithamar. 
Subsequently Samuel the prophet increased the number to six- 
teen, and finally David further increased them to twenty-four, 
as it is written [I Chronicles, vi. 26]: ‘‘ In the fortieth year of 
David were they inquired into, and there were found among 
them mighty men of valor at Ya’zer and Gil’ad.”’ 

The rabbis taught: “‘ Four watches went up out of exile, 
and they are: Yida’yah, Harim, Pash’hor, and Imar. And the 
prophets who went with them increased them to twenty-four.’’ 
How was this done? They threw lots into an urn, and Yida’yah 
came and drew lots for himself and companions to the number of 
six. Then came Harim, and drew lots for himself and for his 
companions to the number of six. Likewise did Pash’hor, and 
thus also Imar; and the prophets also enacted that, even should 
Jehoyoreb, the chief of the watches, come up out of exile, he 
should not displace Yid’ayah, but Yid’ayah should be first, and 
Jehoyoreb act merely as an additional (to Yid’ayah). 

The rabbis taught: The men of the watch would pray that 
the sacrifices of their brethren should be favorably accepted; and 
the standing men would congregate in the synagogues and fast 
four fast-days; viz., from Monday until Thursday, inclusive. 
On the first fast-day they would fast for those who plied the 
seas; on the second, for those who traverse the desert; the 
third, that the children might be saved from the disease of 
croup; and the last day, for pregnant women and for those 
suckling their babes—that the former might be happily deliv- 
ered and the latter retain their strength. On the day preceding 
the Sabbath they would not fast, in honor of the Sabbath, and 
most assuredly not on the Sabbath itself. Why did they not 
fast on Sunday? Said R. Samuel ben Na’hmeni: ‘‘ Because 
that is the third day (after man was created)’’; and Resh La- 
kish said: ‘* Because of the second soul that is given to man on 
the Sabbath, and which leaves him at the close of the Sabbath 
day’’ (hence he would be too weak to fast on the following 
day). 

“* On Sunday the standing men read, ‘ In the beginning,’’’ etc. 
We have learned in a Boraitha: The first section, z.¢., from the 


x9? 





TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 83 


passage commencing, “‘ In the beginning,’’ until that commenc- 
ing, ‘‘ Let there be an expansion,’’ was read by two men, while 
the second section, commencing, ‘‘ Let there be an expansion,”’ 
until, ‘‘ Let the waters,’’ etc., was read by one man only. 

‘* The long section of the day was read by two persons,’’ etc. 
We have learned in a Boraitha: During the morning and addi- 
tional prayers they would enter into the synagogues and read 
the sections from the Scrolls as usual; but during the afternoon 
prayer one man would recite the section by heart. Said R. 
Jose: ‘‘ May, then, an individual recite a section of the Scrip- 
tures by heart in the presence of the entire congregation ?”’ 
‘‘ Therefore,’’ said he, “‘ the entire congregation went in and re- 
cited the section by heart, just as they do the Shema’ prayer.’’ 

‘* On the days on which the Hallel was sung, the standing men 
would not attend,’’ etc. What is the difference ? (z.¢., why, when 
a wood-offering was brought, was the closing prayer omitted and 
the afternoon prayer retained ?). Because the closing prayer 
was a rabbinical institution, while the afternoon prayer was a 
biblical ordinance. 

“* The times when the delivery of wood was made by priests and 
people.’’ Therabbis taught: Why did the Mishna have to men- 
tion both the times when the priests and when the people made 
the delivery of wood? Because it was said that when the chil- 
dren of Israel returned from exile they found no wood in the 
wood-chamber, and the priests contributed the wood of their 
own accord. In consideration of this fact, the prophets at that 
time made the enactment that even when the wood-chamber 
was filled with wood, the priests be allowed to furnish wood of 
their own accord (and from their own means), as it is written 
[ Nehemiah, x. 35]: ‘‘ And we—the priests, the Levites, and the 
people—cast lots concerning the procuring of the wood, to bring 
it into the house of our God, unto the house of our fathers, at 
fixed times, year by year, to burn upon the altar of the Lord 
our God, as it is written in the Law.’’ 

‘‘ And with them priests and Levites,’’ etc. -The rabbis 
taught: Who were those Gonebe Eli and Kotze Ketzi’oth? 
It was said that at one time the government decreed that 
the Israelites should not bring any wood for the altar, nor the 
firstfruit-offerings to Jerusalem, and guards were appointed to 
watch the wagons in the same manner as Jeroboam ben Nebat 
appointed guards to prevent the Israelites from going to Jeru- 
salem for the festivals. What did the pious and those who were 


84 . THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


afraid of transgressing do? They would place a basket contain- 
ing the firstfruits at the bottom of the wagon, and cover it with 
dried fruits. In addition to that they would carry a pestle, and 
when stopped by the guards would tell them that they were on 
their way to a place where they desired to pound the fruit; and 
after having safely passed the guards, they would ornament the 
basket containing the firstfruits and bring it into the Temple. 
And we have learned in a Boraitha, in addition to this, that the 
Gonebe Eli and the Kotze Ketzi’oth are the same who are 
called elsewhere the family of Salmai Hanthophathai. Who were 
the Salmai Hanthophathai? The rabbis taught that when it 
was decreed that no wood should be brought for the altar they 
would construct ladders, which they would carry past the guards 
appointed to watch for any men who would violate the decree, 
and when stopped would claim that they were about to take 
down some doves from their dovecots. Having safely eluded 
the guards and arrived at the Temple, they would take the lad- 
ders apart and carry in the wood for the altar.* To these men 
and those emulating their example the passage may be applied 
[Proverbs, x. 7]: ‘‘ The memory of the just is to be blessed.”’ 

‘* On the 20th, the family Pahath Moab ben Jehudah,’’ etc. 
In a Boraitha we have learned: By ‘‘ the family Pa’hath Moab 
ben Jehudah’’ is meant the family of David ben Jehudah (mean- 
ing David the King of the tribe of Judah). Such is the opinion 
of R. Meir; but R. Jose said that they were of the children of 
Joab ben Tzeruyah. 

‘© On the 20th of Elul, the family of Adin ben Jehudah,’’ etc. 
The rabbis taught: By ‘‘ the family of Adin ben Jehudah”’ is 
meant the family of David ben Jehudah. Such is the opinion 
of R. Jehudah; but R. Jose said that they were of the children 
of Joab ben Tzeruyah. 

‘“* There was no meeting of the standing men on the ist of 
Tebeth.’’ Said Rabha: The Hallel which is sung on the feast 
of new moon is not based upon a biblical ordinance, because 
R. Johanan said in the name of R. Simeon ben Jehozadok: 
‘** Eighteen times during the year an individual may recite the 





* The names Gonebe Eli, Kotze Ketzi’oth, and Salmai Hanthophathai were 
not in reality proper names, but signified the following: Gonebe Eli means those 
who stole the pestle ; Ketzi’oth means dry figs or cinnamon, from the Arabic cassia; 
and Salmai is derived from the word Sulam,a ladder. The connection is easily 
established, as alluding to the means employed by those pious men safely to elude 
the guards appointed to watch for the firstfruits and the wood for the altar. 





TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 85 


whole Hallel, and they are: On the eight days of the Feast of 
Tabernacles, on the eight days of the Feast of Dedication 
(Hanukah), on the first day of the Passover, and on the day of 
Pentecost. While in exile, however, one may recite it twenty- 
one times during the year, namely: On the nine days of the fes- 
tival of Tabernacles, on the eight days of Hanukah, on the first 
two days of Passover, and on the two days of Pentecost.’’ 

Rabh happened to be in Babylon (¢.e., before he removed 
there permanently) and he saw the people reading the Hallel on 
the first day of the month. He first intended to interrupt them, 
but seeing that they read only portions of it, he said : 1 under- 
stand they follow the customs of their ancestors, and it does not 
matter. Ina Boraitha we have learned that an individual shall 
not start, but if he had already started he may conclude it. 

“* Five calamities happened to our ancestors,’’ etc. Whence 
do we know that on the 17th day of Tamuz the tables of the 
Holy Law were broken? Because we have learned in a Boraitha 
as follows: On the sixth day of Sivan the ten commandments 
were given, and on the seventh day Moses ascended unto heaven. 
R. Jose says: ‘“ On the seventh day the ten commandments were 
given.’’ All agree, however, that on the seventh day of Sivan 
Moses ascended unto heaven, because it is written [Exodus, 
xxiv. 16]: ‘‘ And he called unto Moses on the seventh day out 
of the midst of the cloud’’; and further, it is said [ibid. 18]: 
‘‘ And Moses went into the midst of the cloud, and ascended 
the mount; and Moses was on the mount forty days and forty 
nights.’” Thus Moses was there twenty-four days in Sivan and 
sixteen days in Tamuz, and on the 17th he descended and broke 
the tables, as it is written [ibid. xxxii. 19]: ‘‘ And it came to 
pass, when he (Moses) came nigh unto the camp, and he saw the 
calf and the dancing, that the anger of Moses waxed hot, and he 
cast from his hands the tables, and broke them at the foot of the 
mount.”’ 

That the continual daily offerings ceased on the 17th of Ta- 
muz is traditional; and the statement that the city was stormed 
on that day refers to the second destruction. That the other 
two calamities occurred on that day is also traditional. 

‘“* On the oth of Abh it was decreed,’’ etc. Whence do we 
know that? From the following Boraitha: We have learned 
that on the twenty-ninth day of Sivan Moses sent out the spies, 
as it is written [Numb. xiii. 25]: ‘‘ And they returned from 
spying out the land at the end of forty days,’’ and those forty 


86 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


days (included the day of their return, that is) were in reality 
forty less one, and Abayi said. that in that year the month of 
Tamuz was a full month of thirty days, as it is written [Lam. 
i. 15]:.‘‘ He hath called an assembly against me to crush my 
young men.”’ * 

Further, it is written [Numb. xiv. 1]: “‘ And all the congrega- 
tion lifted up their voice, and cried aloud, and the people wept 
that night.’’ Said Rabba in the name of R. Johanan: ‘‘ That 
night was the eve preceding the ninth of Abh, and the Holy 
One, blessed be He, said: ‘ Ye have cried on this night in vain, 
and I shall ordain it that your generations shall lament on this 
day forever.’ ’”’ 

‘* On that day the first and second Temples were destroyed.”’ 
It is written [II Kings, xxv. 8]: ‘‘ And in the fifth month, on 
the seventh day of the month,”’ etc., and [Jeremiah, lii. 12]: 
‘* And in the fifth month, on the tenth day of the month.”’ It 
cannot be said that on the seventh day the calamity occurred, 
because it is also written “‘on the tenth.’’ Neither can it be 
said that it happened ‘‘ on the tenth,’’ because it says ‘‘ on the 
seventh ’’—hence it must be assumed that entrance to the Tem- 
ple was gained by the enemy on the seventh, and they ate and 
did damage therein on the seventh, on the eighth, and on the 
ninth. Toward the evening of the ninth they set it on fire, and 
it continued to burn all day on the tenth, as it is written [ibid. 
vi. 4]: ‘‘ Wo unto us! for the day waneth, for the shadows of 
the evening are stretched out.’’ And this bears out the state- 
ment of R. Johanan, who said as follows: ‘‘ Were I living in 
those days, I would have ordained the fast for the 1oth of Abh; 
for on that day the greater part of the temple was burned.”’ 
The sages of that day, however, held that the day when the 
calamity began should be observed as a fast-day. 

Whence do we know that the second Temple was also de- 
stroyed on the 9th of Abh? We have learned in a Boraitha: 
‘“ A happy event is credited to the day on which another happy 
event happened, while a calamity is ascribed to the day when 
another calamity occurred; and it was said that when the first 
Temple was destroyed it was on the eve preceding the oth of 
Abh, which was also the night at the close of the Sabbath and 
also the close of the Sabbatical year. The watch at the time 





* How it is inferred from the passage is not understood by us, nor explained by 
any commentary. 








TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 87 


was that of Jehoyoreb, and the Levites were chanting in their 
proper places, at that moment reciting the passage [Psalms, 
xciv. 23]: ‘' And he will bring back upon them their own injus- 
tice, and in their own wickedness will he destroy them’’; and 
they did not have time to end the passage, which concludes, 
‘““yea, he will destroy them—the Lord our God,’’ before the 
enemy entered and took possession of the Temple. This hap- 
pened also at the destruction of the second Temple. 

That the city of Bethar was taken on the gth of Abh is tradi- 
tional. 

““ And the site was ploughed up like a field.’’ We have learned 
in a Boraitha: When Torosnopos the Wicked destroyed the Tem- 
ple, a decree was promulgated that Rabbon Gamaliel (the First) 
should be executed. A certain master came into the house of 
learning, and said that the man of the nose* was being looked 
for (z.e., the most prominent member of the community). R. 
Gamaliel understood that he was meant thereby, and hid him- 
self. The same master surreptitiously came to the place where 
R. Gamaliel was concealed and asked him if, should he (the 
master) be instrumental in saving his (R. Gamaliel’s) life, he 
would assure him a share in the world to come, and R. Gamailiel 
answered that he would. The master then demanded that he 
swear to it, and R. Gamaliel swore. Thereupon the master 
ascended to an attic, threw himself down, and died. The tradi- 
tion goes on to say that if one of the signers of a death-warrant 
or any other unfavorable decree died, the decree became null and 
void. Thus was Rabbon Gamaliel saved. A heavenly Voice 
then came forth, and declared that the master would have a 
share in the world to come. 

The rabbis taught: When the first Temple was destroyed, 
groups of young priests, who had the keys of the Temple, went 
up to the roof and said: “‘ Creator of the Universe! it being that 
we were not destined to live and be trustworthy keepers of thy 
treasure, we herewith return the keys.’’ With that they threw 
the keys up into the air, and something like a hand was seen to 
come forth and grasp them, whereupon the priests immediately 
threw themselves down into the fire beneath. They were 
mourned by Isaiah the prophet in the verses [Isaiah, xxii. 1 and 





* The expression in the original is ’Hotam, meaning ose ; but Abraham Kroch- 
mal asserts that ’Hotam should read "Hotham, meaning a sea/, and thus the passage 
would read ‘‘ the man of the seal,” z.¢., the prince of the community. 


88 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


2]: ‘‘ The doom of the valley of vision. What aileth thee now, 
that thou art wholly gone up to the roofs? O noiseful, tumul- 
tuous city, joyous town! thy slain ones are not slain with the 
sword, and not those that die in battle.’’ 

‘* From the ist of Abh it ts incumbent upon a person to lessen 
his participation in joyful events.’’ Said R. Jehudah, the son of 
R. Samuel bar Shilath, in the name of Rabh: ‘‘ As from the Ist 
of Abh participation in joyful events must be lessened, so, as 
soon as the month of Adar enters, joyous festivities should be 
increased.”’ 

“* During the week in which the 9th of Abh occurs,’’ etc. Said 
R. Na’hman: ‘‘ The washing of clothes is prohibited only when 
they are washed for the purpose of immediate wear, but it is 
allowed to wash clothes and put them away for future wear.’’ 
R. Shesheth, however, said that even washing for future wear is 
also not allowed, and the proof is that the laundresses of Rabh 
would stop work on that entire week. It was taught also that 
R. Benjamin said in the name of R. Elazar: ‘‘ Washing for im- 
mediate wear is prohibited during that week, but for future wear 
it is permitted.”’ 

An objection was raised: We have learned: “‘ It is not allowed 
to wash clothes before the 9th of Abh, even if they be intended 
for use after the 9th. In those days the washing of the clothes 
was similar to our laundrying, and as for linen garments the pro- 
hibition is not effective (only for silk garments)?’’ The objec- 
tion remains. . 

R. Itz’hak bar Giuri in the name of R. Johanan sent word, 
saying: “‘ Although the prohibition against washing does not 
apply to linen garments, still it is not allowed to put on such 
garments during the week in which the 9th of Abh occurs.’’ 
Said Rabh: ‘‘ This applies only to the days preceding the goth 
of Abh, but not to those succeeding it,’’ while Samuel said 
that even on the days following the 9th of Abh it is also not 
allowed. . 

This constitutes a difference of opinion among Tanaim, as 
we learn in the following Boraitha: “‘ If the ninth day of Abh 
falls on a Sabbath, or even if the eighth falls on a Sabbath, one 
may eat and drink whatever he chooses, and may place on his 
table even such viands as were eaten by Solomon while he was 
yet king. He must not shave or wash (his clothes) from the day 
of the new moon until after the fast of the 9th of Abh. Such 
is the dictum of R. Meir. R. Jehudah, however, says that it is 





TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 89 


not allowed to do this the entire month of Abh; but R. Simeon 
ben Gamaliel maintains that the prohibition applies only to the 
week in which the 9th of Abh occurs.”’ 

In another Boraitha we have learned: ‘‘ A man should be in 
a state of mourning from the first day of Abh until after the 
fast-day. Such is the dictum of R. Meir. R. Jehudah, how- 
ever, says that during the entire month one is not allowed to do 
things prohibited for a mourner; but R. Simeon ben Gamaliel 
maintains that one must be in such a state only during the week 
in which the 9th of Abh occurs.’’ (Hence the difference of 
opinion between Rabh and Samuel arises from the fact that 
Rabh holds with R. Meir, while Samuel holds with the other 
Tanaim.) 

Said R. Johanan: ‘‘ All the three Tanaim of the Boraitha 
quoted derived their teachings from the following passage [Ho- 
sea, ii. 13|: ‘And I will cause to cease all her mirth, her festi- 
val, her new moon, and her Sabbath,’ etc. The Tana who 
teaches that one should be in a state of mourning from the Ist 
of Abh on, derives his teaching from the word ‘ festival’ in the 
passage, because the Ist, being New Moon, is a festival. The 
Tana who applies his teaching to the whole month derives it 
from the words ‘ new moon,’ and infers that it means the entire 
month; and the Tana who applies his teaching only to the week 
in which the 9th of Abh occurs, derives it from the word ‘ Sab- 
bath,’ and infers that it means the week of that Sabbath.”’ 

Said Rabha: ‘‘ The Halakha prevails according to R. Meir,’’ 
and on another occasion he said: ‘‘ It prevails according to R. 
Simeon ben Gamaliel’’; and by both statements he meant to 
render the more lenient construction of the ordinance. Thus it 
was necessary to make both statements. For had he said that 
the Halakha prevails only according to R. Meir, the state of 
mourning would extend for the nine days from the Ist to the 
gth of Abh inclusive; and had he said that the Halakha prevails 
only according to R. Simeon ben Gamaliel, the state of mourn- 
ing would extend over the days following the 9th of Abh in the 
same week. By citing both decrees, however, the ordinance is 
made more lenient, in that the state of mourning commences 
only with the first day of the week in which the 9th occurs and 
ends with the oth itself. 

‘“ On the day before the 9th of Abh a person should not partake 
of two dishes.’’ Said R. Jehudah: ‘‘ This applies only to the 
time from the sixth hour on (12 M.), but previous to that time 


go THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


it may be done.’’ - And again he said: This applies only to 
the concluding meal, but during the other meals he may eat 
what he chooses, and both statements are intended for the more 
lenient construction of the ordinance (z.¢., if one eats his last 
meal before noon, or if he eats a meal after noon but intends to 
eat again before the fast commences, he may in either case eat 
as many dishes as he chooses). We have learned in a Boraitha: 
On the eve of the 9th of Abh one must not eat two dishes, nor 
eat meat nor drink wine. R. Simeon b. Gamaliel, however, 
said: ‘‘ He shall make a change.’’ Said R. Jehudah: ‘‘ What 
is meant by making a change? £.g., if he usually eats two 
dishes, he shall now eat one; if he usually eats in the company 
of ten men, he shall now eat in the company of five; if his cus- 
tom is to drink ten cups of wine, he shall now drink five. But 
all this applies to the time from the sixth hour on; but previ- 
ously to the sixth hour, everything is permitted.’’ In another 
Boraitha we have learned: On the eve of the oth of Abh one 
should not eat two dishes, nor eat meat, nor drink wine. So is 
the decree of R. Meir. The sages, however, said: ‘‘ He shall 
make a change, and shall use less meat and wine. How so? 
If his custom had been to eat a /ittre of meat, he shall now eat 
one-half of it; if his custom had been to drink a /ug of wine, he 
shall now drink one-half of a Jug; but if his custom had been to 
drink no wine at all, he must not drink it at all—even a drop.”’ 
R. Simeon b. Gamaliel said: “‘ If his custom had been to eat 
radishes or something salt, after his meal, he may continue to 
do it.”’” In yet another Boraitha we have learned: “‘ In case of 
the concluding meal before the gth of Abh he must not eat 
meat, neither drink wine, nor wash himself; but if this meal is 
not the concluding meal, he may eat meat and drink wine, but 
must not wash.’’ R. Ishmael, the son of R. Jose, however, 
said in the name of his father: ‘‘ As long as it is allowed to eat 
meat, it is allowed to wash one’s self also.”’ 

The rabbis taught: All ordinances applicable to a mourner 
are effective for all (Israelites) on the 9th of Abh; viz., one must 
not eat, drink, anoint himself, wear shoes, or have sexual inter- 
course. The Pentateuch, the Prophets, and the Hagiographa 
must not be read. The Mishna, Gemara, and Midrash must 
not be studied, nor Halakhoth or Haggadoth discussed; but 
something which one has not previously read he may read, and 
may study something which he had never before studied. The 
school-children must not learn on that day, because it is written 





TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). gt 


[Psalms, xix. 9]: ‘‘ The precepts of the Lord are upright, rejoic- 
ing the heart.’’ R. Jehudah, however, says that one must not 
even read something new to him nor study anything which is 
new to him; but all agree that one may read Job, Lamenta- 
tions, and the evil prophecies of Jeremiah, and the school-children 
must be idle on that day. 

‘“* Nor drink any wine.’’ We have learned in a Boraitha: 
One may eat salt meat and drink wine still in a state of fermen- 
tation (on the day before the 9th). How long must the meat 
lie in salt in order to be classed as salt meat which may be 
eaten? Said R. Hinana bar Kahana in the name of Samuel: 
As long as the time during which a peace-offering may be eaten; 
z.¢., if meat lie in salt two days and one night it is not yet salt 
meat, but if it lie longer it may be eaten on that day. The pro- 
hibition concerning drinking wine that has been standing uncov- 
ered does not apply to wine in a state of fermentation, and how 
long is wine in such a state? Three days. 

R. Jehudah said in the name of Rabh: ‘‘ Such was the cus- 
tom of R. Jehudah bar R. Ilayi: On the night preceding the 
oth of Abh, dry bread with salt and a jug of water were brought 
to him; he would sit behind the oven and eat the bread and 
drink the water, and his manner was the same as if the dead 
body of a near relative were lying before him.’’ Ina Boraitha 
we have learned: To him who eats meat and drinks wine on the 
oth of Abh is applied the passage [Ezekiel, xxxii. 27]: ‘““And 
their iniquities were upon their bones.”’ 

‘“* But the sages do not coincide with him.’’ Said Rabha: 
‘‘ The Halakha prevails according to the sages.”’ 

‘© On the 15th of Abh and on the Day of Atonement,’’ etc. It 
is right that the Day of Atonement should be a day of rejoicing, 
because that is a day of forgiveness, and on that day the second 
tables of the Law were given to Moses; but why should the 15th 
of Abh be a day of rejoicing ? Said R. Jehudah in the name of 
Samuel: ‘‘ On that day it was permitted to the members of the 
different tribes to intermarry.’’ Whence is this deduced? Be- 
cause it is written [Numb. xxxvi. 6]: ‘‘ This is the thing which 
the Lord hath commanded concerning the daughters of Zelo- 
phehad,”’ etc., they claim that ‘‘ this is the thing’’ implies that 
only for that generation was it decreed, but for later generations 
the decree does not apply. 

R. Joseph in the name of R. Na’hman said: On that day the 
members of the tribe of Benjamin were permitted to intermarry 


92 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


with the other tribes, as it is written [Judges, xxi. 1]: ‘‘ Now 
the men of Israel had sworn in Mizpah, saying: Not any one of 
us shall give his daughter unto Benjamin for wife.’’ Whence 
was it deduced that subsequently permission might be given to 
intermarry with the tribe of Benjamin? Because the quoted 
passage says ‘‘ Any one of us,’’ and Rabh said that their de- 
scendants were not included in the vow. 

Rabba bar bar Hana said in the name of R. Johanan: On 
that day the last of those who were destined to die in the desert 
died, and the destiny was thus fulfilled; for the Master said that 
so long as the destiny was still unfulfilled, the Lord did not 
speak to Moses for his particular sake, as it is written [Deut. ii. 
16 and 17]: ‘‘ So it came to pass, when all the men of war were 
spent by dying from the midst of the people, that the Lord 
spoke unto me, saying’’; and ‘“‘ unto me’’ signifies that the 
Lord spoke unto Moses in particular. 

Ula said: ‘‘ On that day the guards appointed by Jeroboam 

to prevent the Israelites from coming to Jerusalem were abol- 
ished by Hoshea the son of Elah, and he said: ‘ Let them go 
wherever they choose.’ ’’ 
. R. Mathnah said: ‘‘ On that day permission was given to 
bury the dead who were killed in battle at the city of Bethar.’’ 
And R. Mathnah said again: ‘‘ On that day, when it was per- 
mitted to bury those killed at Bethar, the assembly at Yamnia 
ordained the benediction reading: ‘ Blessed art thou, God the 
good, that doth good.’ What is meant thereby? By ‘ good’ 
is meant that the bodies were not left to putrefy, and by ‘ doth 
good’ that burial was permitted.”’ 

Rabba and R. Joseph both said: On that day they ceased to 
cut wood for the altar, as we have learned in a Boraitha: R. 
Eliezer the Great said: ‘‘ From the fifteenth day of Abh the 
heat of the sun was lessened and the timber was no longer dry, | 
so they ceased to cut wood for the altar.”’ [Said R. Menasseh: 
** That day was called the day on which the saws were broken ’’], 
and from that day on, he who adds the night to his time for 
study may have years and days added to his life. 

““In white garments—borrowed ones,’’ etc. The rabbis 
taught : The king’s daughter borrowed from the daughter of 
the high-priest; the daughter of the latter would borrow from 
the daughter of the Segan (assistant); the Segan’s daughter 
would borrow from the daughter of the priest who was anointed 
for the war [see Deut. xx. 2]; and she in turn would borrow 





TRACT TAANITH (FASTING). 93 


from the daughter of an ordinary priest. The daughters of the 
ordinary Israelites would borrow one from the other, in order 
not to put to shame those who had none of their own. 

‘* These clothes were also to be immersed.’’ Said R. Eliezer: 
“* Even if the clothes were folded and laid in a chest, they must 
also be immersed.”’ 

“* The maidens went out and danced,’’ etc. We have learned 
in a Boraitha: Those that had no wives would go there to pro- 
cure a spouse. 

“ Saying: ‘ Young men, look and observe,’’’ etc. The rabbis 
taught: The pretty ones among the maidens would say: ‘‘ Re- 
gard but beauty alone, because a woman is made only for 
beauty.’’ Those among them who were of good family would 
say: “‘ Rather look to a good family,’’ for women are but made 
to bear children (and those of good family produce good chil- 
dren). The ill-favored ones among them would say: ‘‘ Make 
your selections only for the glory of Heaven, but provide liber- 
ally for us.”’ 

Said Ula Biraah in the name of R. Elazar: “‘ In the future 
the Holy One, blessed be He, will make a ring of the righteous, 
and He will sit among them in the garden of Eden, and they 
everyone will point to Him with their fingers, as it is written 
[Isaiah, xxv. 9]: ‘And men will say on that day, Lo, this is 
our God, for whom we have waited that He would help us: this 
is the Lord, for whom we have waited; we will be glad and we 
will rejoice in His salvation.’ ”’ 


END OF TRACT TAANITH. 





x Te 


E eal 





ou Demy 
Ae. 





Fa ei lor ty ol 


CONTENTS. 


PAGE 

Synopsis OF SUBJECTS OF VOLUME VIII.—TRACT MEGILLA, iv 

CHAPTER I. 

REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE TIME WHEN THE Book oF 
ESTHER MUST BE READ ON THE RABBINICAL FEAST OF 
Purim IN OpEN Towns AND WALLED CITIES, ETC., , I 

CHAPTER II. 

CONCERNING THE READING OF THE MEGILLA—BY WHOM, 

WHERE, AND IN WHAT LANGUAGES, . ‘ k : so 48 
CHAPTER IIL. 

REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE POSTURE OF THE READER OF 

THE MEGILLA, AND HIS CLOTHES, BEFORE PRAYER, . a figee 


CHAPTER IV. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING SELLING OF SACRED PROPERTY AND 
ABOUT THE READING OF THE HOLY SCROLLS ON SABBATH 
AND HOoLipays, . : ; 3 < 4 ¥ ’ wf) Te 


Ay RA ay 1S} ae Sy ee a rene a ee ee he ee - o> 1 
5 pe thy es Sin Nas RN He SC id Rn Repetto, F 


=P § 





SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


VOLUME VIII.—TRACT MEGILLA. 





CHAPTER I. 


MISHNAS I. and II. The Megilla is to be read from the eleventh till the 
fifteenth of Adar. Howso? Which cities are considered walled since the 
time of Joshua b. Nun. By whom was made the Targum on the Pentateuch 
and by whom that of the Prophets. What the Heavenly voice said then 
and how the ground of Palestine trembled. Who were the men who were 
with Daniel [Daniel, x. 7]? Who are obliged to hear the reading of the 
Megilla? Which has the preference, the study of the Law or the reading of the 
Megilla? Are women obliged to hear the Megilla read? What must be 
considered a large town ? What Rabbi used to do on Purim, the seventeenth 
of Tamuz, and how he has abolished the fast on the ninth of Ab. The ex- 
planation of the passage Zechar. ix. 7, and also the explanation of the pas- 
sage Ps. cxl. 9. Also what is to be inferred from Habakkuk, i. 13, . I-14 


MISHNA III. When the Megilla was read in the first Adar and after- 
wards the year was declared intercalary. The request that Esther sent to 
the sages. The Book of Esther was dictated by the Holy Spirit. Whence 
is this deduced? The obligation of sending portions to friends and to give 
charity to the poor. In what characters and language the Megilla must be 
written? When is the festival meal on Purim to be eaten? . : 14-17 

MISHNAS IV. and V. Enumerate the difference of a number of things 
between one another, among them the difference of the Greek language and 
others, and why it has preference over all others except Hebrew. The tradi- 
tion of the men of the Great Assembly about the passages beginning with 
the word “ Vahi” (and it came to pass). What a bride who is chaste in the 
house of her husband’s parents deserves. The enumeration of the passages 
with which the different Amoraim began their lectures on the Book of Esther. 
The analysis of the name ‘‘ Ahasuerus,” and what the different sages had to 
say about it. He was a self-made king. Is it to his credit or to his dis- 
credit? The three kings that reigned over the whole world. Why was 
Cyrus called the anointed of God? Why does the Bible sometimes name 
Persia before Media and sometimes vice versa? By what sins did the Is- 
raelites incur the decree of Haman in that age? Who was Memuchan? 
Why was Mordecai called Benjamite and Judean? The interpretation of 
the names mentioned in the Chronicles without any explanation. Why did 

iv 





SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. v 


Esther not reveal her nationality ? The reward for the modesty of Rachel, of 
Saul, and of Esther. How the Lord makes wroth the masters of their servants 
and the servants of their masters in order to do good to the upright. The 
explanation of the calamities of Haman. The parable of Ahasuerus and 
Haman. The explanation of the passage, ‘‘ There is not any rock like our 
God.” The seven prophetesses in Israel. Pride does not become women. 
Who was Hathach? Why did Esther invite Haman to the feast, and what 
Elijah, the prophet, said about this to Abahu? Why Israel resembles earth 
and why stars? All the lecturing in detail about the conversation which 
Esther had with Ahasuerus before the hanging of Haman. Why is Mor- 
decai mentioned in Ezra, ii. 2, the fifth, and in Nehemiah, vii. 7, the 
sixth ? $i 5 . . . . . . ‘ wiehie . 17-44 


CHAPTER II. 


MISHNAS I. and II, Whence do we deduce that anyone that reads the 
Megilla in an irregular manner does not fulfil his duty, that the Patriarchs 
must be mentioned in the prayer, that the Megilla must not be read by 
heart, and that the name of the Lord must not be blessed any more after the 
pronunciation of the eighteen benedictions? How is it known that God 
called Jacob “El”? Regulations concerning the reading from Assyrian 
characters, from writing in ink, and not to make long pauses, If the inhab- 
itants of an open town had gone to a walled town. If one reads the Megilla 
which is bound together with other books. How the schoolmen repudiated 
the statement of an Halakha in the name of Johanan, . ; é 45-54 


MISHNAS III. to V. Who is qualified to read the Megilla ? Which acts 
may not be done before sunrise on the day on which they are obligatory, 
and which may be done during the whole of the day on which they are obliga- 
tory, . : . d 3 * A : é é ‘ : ‘ 54-56 


CHAPTER III. 


MISHNAS I. to VI. Is the Megilla to be read sitting or standing ? What 
benediction must be pronounced before and after the reading? Regulations 
concerning the men to be called to read the Holy Scrolls in the prayer houses 
on the prescribed days, and their number on each day. What is to be done 
when men come into the synagogue after the prayer is finished ? What is 
the benediction for mourners? The number of men that must be present 
when the name of God is mentioned in a benediction. How many verses 
must each read who is called to read in the Holy Scrolls? Who is allowed 
to act as minister? May a priest whose hands are deformed raise his hands 
to bless the congregation? Ifone say he will not minister at reading desk 
in colored clothes. If one say in his prayer, ‘‘ The good shall bless Thee” 
(see note, p. 67). Which portions of the Torah must be read and explained, 
and which are to be read without explanation? . : : : 57-69 


CHAPTER IV. 


MisuHNnas I. to III. Regulations concerning the investment of the proceeds 
of a sale of sacred public property. May one prayer house be exchanged for 
another? Which articles used in a religious duty may be cast away, and 


er 





mt, f Ws - “ Ch ae 
Bae oY BSED Ps 

mS eves Seeeee 3 ee Mace? 
Racy . Ways ek 
vi ; SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


which must be hidden? What disposition of the Holy Scrolls when rotten ? 
May old Holy Scrolls be sold? When are Holy Scrolls allowed to be sold ? 
Rules of contribution to charity by a visitor of a town. May sacred public 
property be sold to private individuals? The replies of many sages when 
they were questioned for the reason of their longevity. What is forbidden 
to be done in a prayer house, and may a man go in there for the purpose of 
protecting himself against rain or sunshine? What is meant by the saying 
of the Mishna: ‘‘Who uses the crown is lost”? Come and see how the 
Israelites are beloved before the Holy One, etc. The Heavenly voice about 
the Mount Sinai, . x P s . ‘é ‘ i : 2 70-81 

MISHNAS IV. and V. Treat about the portions of the Bible which are to 
be read on the Sabbaths beginning two weeks before Purim up to Passover, 
on each day of the Passover, and on each day of the other festivals, and the 
different opinions about this, 20) °her sie ee es ee, Siege 








TRACT MEGILLA. 





CHAPTER I. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE TIME WHEN THE BOOK OF ESTHER 
MUST BE READ ON THE RABBINICAL FEAST OF PURIM IN OPEN 
TOWNS AND WALLED CITIES, ETC. 


MISHNA: The Megilla is read sometimes on the 11th, 12th, 
13th, 14th, or on the 15th of the month Adar, neither earlier nor 
later. Cities which, from the time of Joshua the son of Nun, 
were surrounded with walls, read it on the 15th. Villages and 
large open towns should read it on the 14th, and inhabitants of 
villages may read it in advance on the day of assembly.* How 
is this to be understood? When the 14th fell on Monday, 
inhabitants of villages and of large open towns used to read it 
on that day, and those of walled cities on the day following. 
When it fell on Tuesday or Wednesday, the inhabitants of vil- 
lages used to read it in advance (the preceding Monday) on the 
day of assembly, those of large open towns on that day (the 
14th), and those of walled towns on the morrow. When it fell 
on Thursday, inhabitants of villages and large open towns used 
to read it on that day, and of walled towns on the following 
day. If it fell on the eve of Sabbath, inhabitants of villages 
read it in advance on the preceding or day of assembly, and 
those of large open towns and of walled towns on that day 
(14th). When it fell on Sabbath, inhabitants of villages and 
large open towns read it in advance on the preceding Thursday, 
the day of assembly; and of walled towns on the morrow (the 
Sunday). When it fell on Sunday, in villages they read it on 
the preceding day of assembly (Thursday), and in large open 
towns on that day (14th), and in walled cities on the morrow. 





* In the time of the Mishna the tribunals of justice kept the courts open on 
Mondays or Thursdays for the sake of the men who came to the markets, which were 
usually on these days. The reading of the Holy Scrolls in the synagogues was also 
on these days, and therefore they were called ‘‘ days of assembly.” 


2 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


GEMARA: The Megilla was read on the 11th day. Whence 
do we deduce this? Whence do we deduce this! (Is this, then, 
a biblical commandment, which you want to deduce from the 
passages of the Bible? This is only rabbinical), and as it will 
be explained further on, the sages made it easier for the inhab- 
itants of villages, who usually came to the towns on Mondays 
and Thursdays, that they should read then the Book of Esther, 
and should have time to provide their brethren of the towns with 
water and with food? We meant to say so: let us see. The 
reading of the Megilla the men of the Great Assembly have 
ordained. Now, at the first glance, if the men of the Great 
_Assembly had ordained it should be on the 14th and 15th, have 
then the sages the power to abolish the ordinances of the Great 
Assembly ? Have we not learned in a Mishna that a Beth Din 
is not able to abolish the ordinances of its colleagues unless they 
are greater than they in wisdom and in members? Therefore 
we must say that all the mentioned days were ordained by the 
Great Assembly. Where, then, is the hint in the Bible for it ? 
Said R. Shamen bar Abba in the name of R. Johanan: It is writ- 
ten [Esther, ix. 31]: ‘‘ To confirm these days of Purim in their 
times.’’ In their ¢zmes: this signifies that many times are to 
be ordained. But if so, say even the 16thand 17th? Nay, it is 
written [ibid. 27]: ‘‘ So that no one should trespass it.’’ That 
means, it must never be after the appointed time. R. Samuel 
bar Na’hmani, however, said: It is written [ibid. 22]: “‘ like 
those days whereon the Jews had rest from their enemies.’’ 
And those “‘ days’’ are plural, meaning two; “like the days”’ 
means to add also the 11th and the 12th. But perhaps it is the 
12th and the 13th? Said R. Samuel bar Itz’hak: The 13th day 
was the time when all Israel in all places were assembled to take 
revenge on their enemies, and it is certain that such a day must 
not be added from the verse, because this day was the day of 
the main miracle; and therefore if you add something, it can be 
only the 11th and the 12th. But again, perhaps it is the 16th 
and 17th? That is already explained by the verse: ‘‘ He shall 
not trespass.’” Said Rabba bar bar Hanah in the name of R. 
Johanan: This is only according to R. Agqiba, according to 
whom are many anonymous Mishnas; but the sages say that in 
our time, (when the messengers are no longer sent) and the peo- 
ple look to the reading of the Megilla as to a sign of the coming 
feast-day (of Passover), therefore it must be read only in its 
main time (14th). And so we have learned also in a Boraitha: 





TRACT MEGILLA. 3 


R. Jehudah said: The old ordinance was only when the years 
were fixed (by the court in Palestine), and Israel dwelt on its 
own land; but in our time, when they look to make the feast 
only when the Megilla is read, it must be read only in its time. 
Did R. Jehudah say so? Did not we learn in another Boraitha 
that R. /ehudah said that the ordinance was only in those places 
where the people from the villages came to the towns on Mon- 
days and Thursdays; but in the places where they do not come, 
it must be read only in its main time? From this we see that 
where they come, even in our time, they can read it not in its 
appointed time, and this contradicts his teaching above. This 
contradiction was made by R. Ashi, and he answered it: That 
one Boraitha is not according to R. Jehudah, but according to 
R. Jose his son. 

““Cities which, from the time of Joshua 6b. Nun,’’ etc. How 
do we deduce this from the Book of Esther? Said Rabba: It is 
written [ibid. ix. 19]: ‘‘ Therefore do the Jews of the villages 
that dwell in the unwalled towns,’’ etc. Now, when the inhab- 
itants of the unwalled towns read on the 14th, it is self-evident 
that the inhabitants of the walled towns read on the 15th. But 
perhaps the inhabitants of unwalled towns read on the 14th, but 
of walled towns do not read at all? Do not read at all! Are 
they not Israelites? And furthermore, it is written [ibid. 30]: 
‘““And he sent letters unto all the Jews, to the hundred and 
twenty-seven provinces of the kingdom of Ahasuerus,’’ * and 
that means all Israel? But perhaps it means the inhabitants of 
open towns should read on the 14th only, and those of walled 
towns should read on both the 14th and 15th, as it is written 
[ibid. 21]: ‘‘ To take it on themselves as a duty that they 
should celebrate the fourteenth day of the month Adar, and the 
fifteenth day of the same, in each and every year.’’ If it would 
read, “‘ the fourteenth and the fifteenth,’’ it would be right as you 
said; but when it is written, ‘‘ the fourteenth day,’’ separately, 
and ‘‘ the fifteenth,’’ separately, that means that the inhabitants 
of open towns should celebrate on the fourteenth, and those of 
walled towns on the fifteenth. But this is only about the cele- 
bration, which means the eating and the drinking; but the read- 
ing of the Megilla, which is only a memorial, whence do we 
deduce that this is also different? It is written [ibid. 28]: 





* The text says it is written ‘‘ from India to Ethiopia” and refers to verse y, chap. 
viii., but as there it is written not about the Book of Esther, we have cited the other 
verse. 


4 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


‘* And these days are remembered and celebrated.’’ And we 
compare the celebration to the remembering; as the celebration 
is different, so is the remembering. 

But what is the reason of the Tana of our Mishna, who says 
‘* walled towns from the time of Joshua b. Nun’’? He makes 
an analogy of expression: it is written here, ‘‘ therefore the Jews 
of the unwalled towns’’; and it is written [Deut. iii. 5], ‘‘ be- 
sides the unwalled towns.’’ As thereby unwalled towns are 
meant those from the time of Joshua, so also is it meant 
here. 

Our Mishna will not be in accordance with R. Joshua b. 
Kor’ha of the following Boraitha: R. Joshua b. Kor’ha said: 
The inhabitants of towns surrounded with walls from the times 
of Ahasuerus should read on the 15th. Whatis his reason? It 
shall be asin Shushan? As in Shushan they read on the 15th, so 
all towns surrounded with a wall shall read onthe 15th. But the 
inhabitants of Shushan itself act according to whom? It is cer- 
tainly not in accordance with the sages, because it was not sur- 
rounded with a wall in the time of Joshua b. Nun? Said Rabha, 
and according to others Kdi: The case with Shushan is different, 
for there was the miracle, and they feasted on the 15th. R. 
Joshua b. Levi said: A large city, and its neighborhood, and all 
the places around that can be seen with it, must be considered 
like the large city itself. But how much distance is meant ? 
Said R. Jeremiah, according to others R. Hyya bar Abba, as 
the distance from Hamtn to Tiberia, which was a mile. The 
same says again: The double letters in the Hebrew alphabet— 
- Mem, Nun, Zadik, Pe, Kaph—the prophets have added. Is 
this possible? Isit not written [Lev. xxvii. 34]: ‘‘ These are the 
commandments’”’; from which we infer these are the command- 
ments, and no prophet has the power to make new ones from 
that time? And furthermore, did not R. Hisda say that the 
Mem (when it is the last letter of the word) and Samekh (which 
is round), which were chased through the tables of Moses, were 
held in only by a miracle? This is so, but it was not be- 
fore known which letter must be in the middle of the word and 
which at the end; and the prophets ordained that the open one 
should be at the middle and the closed one final.* But even that 
much had they then the right todo? Therefore we must say that 
it was forgotten and the prophets only restored them. The same 





* The open one, ¢.g., 1; the closed one, as D. So also with the other letters. 





TRACT MEGILLA. 5 


authority says again: The Targum (translation) of the Penta- 
teuch was made by Unkelas the Proselyte under the supervision 
of R. Eliezer and R. Joshua; the Targum of the Prophets— 
by Jonathan b. Uziel under the supervision of the three prophets 
Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi. Then the ground of Palestine 
trembled (as if shaken by an earthquake) four hundred Parsaoth 
square, and a heavenly voice was heard: Who are these who 
have revealed My Mystery to man? Then Jonathan b. Uziel 
arose and said: ‘‘ I am the one who hath revealed Thy Mystery 
to man, but it is known unto Thee that not to my honor, nor in 
honor of the house of my father I did this, but for Thy glory, 
to prevent controversies in Israel.’’ He intended to do the 
same with the Hagiographa, when a heavenly voice was heard: 
‘Refrain from doing this.’’ Why so? Because in the Hagi- 
ographa the time of Messiah’s arrival would be known if it should 
be translated (and this must be hidden). 

Why at the translation of the Pentateuch did not the ground 
tremble, and at the translation of the Prophets it trembled? 
Because the Pentateuch is almost all explained; but in the 
Prophets there are many things not explained at all. As it is 
written [Zechariah, xii. 11]: “‘ On that day will the lamentation 
be great in Jerusalem, like the lamentation at Hadad-rimman in 
the valley of Megiddon.’’ And R. Joseph said, but for the 
translation of this verse, I would not know at all what it means. 
The translation is: ‘‘ On this day will the mourning in Jerusa- 
lem be as it was over Ahab b. Amri, that was killed by Hadad- 
rimman b. Tabrimon in the city of Ramoth Gilead, and as they 
mourned over Joshia b. Aman, who was killed by Pharaoh 

Necho (the lame one) in the valley of Megiddon.”’ 

It is-written [Dan. x. 7]: ‘‘ And I, Daniel, saw alone this 
appearance, but the men that were with me did not see the 
appearance; nevertheless a great terror fell upon them, so that 
they fled to hide themselves.’’ Who were these men? Said 
R. Jeremiah, according to others R. Hyya b. Abba: They were 
Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi. They were better than he, 
because they were prophets, and he, Daniel, was not a prophet. 
And he was better than they because he saw it, and they did not 
see it. But if they did not see, why fell a terror upon them ? 
Although they did not see literally, they saw it clairvoyantly. 
Said Rabbina: From this we may infer that whoso is terrified, 
although he does not himself see, he sees clairvoyantly. 

We have learned in a Boraitha: The priests during their ser- 


6 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


vice, Levites from their balcony, and the Israelites standing 
around, all must leave their places to go and hear the reading of 
the Book of Esther. And so also said R. Jehudah in the name 
of Rabh. This the houses of learning took as their support 
when they stopped the learning of the Law, and went to hear 
the reading of the Megilla. They draw an d@ fortiori conclu- 
sion from the Temple service: as the Temple service, which was 
very vigorous, they stopped for the sake of the Megilla, the 
learning of the Law so much the more. But did not R. Samuel 
bar Unia say that the learning of the Law is greater than the 
daily sacrifices? It presents no difficulty; the learning of an 
individual is not greater than Temple service, but the learning 
of a congregation together is greater. 

Rabha said: It is certain to me that of the Temple service 
and the reading of the Megilla the latter has the preference, as 
it is said above. Between the studying of the Law and the 
reading of the Megilla the latter has the preference, as did 
the houses of learning. Between the studying of the Law and 
the burying of a dead man who has no friends the latter has the 
preference. Between the Temple service and the burying of a 
dead man the latter has the preference. But what is doubtful 
to me is, if a man has to read the Megilla and to bury a man 
who has no friends, which has the preference? Shall we assume 
the Megilla has the preference, because it proclaims the miracle; 
or the burying has preference, for the honor of man? After he 
had considered, he himself decided that the burying has pref- 
erence, as the Master said (Sabbath, p. 85): Great is the honor of 
man, which supersedes even a negative commandment of the 
Torah. The text says: R. Joshua b. Levi said that ‘‘a large 
city and its neighborhood,’’ etc., are considered as-the city 
itself. We have learned in a Boraitha, in addition to this: If it 
is in the neighborhood, even if it cannot be seen from a distance 
together with the city; and when it can be seen with the city, 
although it is not near the city. (This is explained, when the 
city is in a valley or on a mountain.) 

R. Joshua b. Levi says again: A city where the inhabitants 
had resided before, and later it was surrounded with a wall, 
must be considered as a village. Why so? Because it is writ- 
ten [Lev. xxv. 29]: ‘‘ And if a man sell a dwelling-house in a 
walled city.’ Whence we may infer that the city was walled 
before he dwelt in it, but not if he had dwelt in it and afterward 
it was walled. He says again: A city where there are not ten 





TRACT MEGILLA. 7 


unemployed men* who devote all their time to the study of the 
Law must be considered as a village. What does he come to 
teach us? Did we not learn this in the following Mishna: What 
is called a great city? If there are ten unemployed men and 
less than this it is a village? His teaching is needed to tell us 
that, even if it was a great city and men came thither from the 
whole world, if there are fewer than ten men unemployed there, 
it is considered as a village. The same says again: A large city 
that was destroyed, and afterward was rebuilt, must be consid- 
ered as a large city. What is meant by destroying? Shall we 
assume it is meant that the walls were destroyed? Then if 
they were only rebuilt it is considered a large city, and not 
otherwise ? Did we not learn in a Boraitha, R. Eliezer b. R. 
Jose said: It is written [ibid. 30]: ‘‘ The house in the city which 
has a wall,’’ from which we infer, which has had a wall previ- 
ously, even though it has not now? Nay, what is meant by the 
expression ‘‘ destroyed’’ is, that it has not now ten unemployed 
men (who learn the Law). R. Joshua b. Levi says again: It is 
obligatory for women to hear the reading of the Megilla, because 
they benefited also by the same miracle. He says again: If the 
Feast of Purim falls on Sabbath, it may be lectured about the 
duties of this day (Purim). Why only the Feast of Esther? Is 
this not a rule for all festivals? Did we not learn in a Boraitha: 
Moses ordained that the Israelites should lecture on the duties 
of each day: the Halakhoth of Passover on Passover, those of 
Pentecost on Pentecost, and those of Tabernacles on the Feast 
of Tabernacles? One might say, we shall take a precautionary 
measure not to lecture about the Megilla, lest one carry it four 
ells in public ground. As Rabha explains further on, he comes 
to teach us that such a precautionary measure is not taken about 
_ lecturing. The same says again: So also said R. Helbu in the 
name of Ulla: One is obliged to read the Megilla in the evening, 
and to repeat it in the daytime, as it is written [Ps. xxx. 13]: 
“‘ To the end that my glorious soul may sing praise to thee, and 
never be silent. O Lord my God! forever will I give thanks 
unto thee.’’ (As this psalm in the Pesiqtha is interpreted to 
refer to Mordecai and Esther, he explains ‘‘ may sing praise to 
thee’’ means to read the Megilla in the night, and ‘‘ never be 
silent ’’’ means to read it in the day.) 





* The Hebrew term for this is ‘‘ Batlonim.” The true meaning is that every city 
must hire ten persons who shall do nothing but study and pray. 


8 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


“* Inhabitants of villages shall read,’’ etc. R. Hanina said: 
The sages made it easier for the inhabitants of villages to read 
on the days of assembly, because they usually supply with water 
and food the inhabitants of towns on those days. 

‘“* How wis to be understood? ‘If it falls on Monday,’’’ ete. 
Why, in the first part of the Mishna, does it begin with the 
order of the days of the month and when it comes to explain it, 
it begins with the order of the days of the week? (It does not 
say ‘‘ read on the 15th,’’ but “‘ on the morrow.’’) Because con- 
fusion between the numbers of the days in the month and in the 
week would have arisen, therefore it begins with the dates of 
the month alone. 

“* Uf it fell on the eve of Sabbath,’’ etc. According to whom 
is this Mishna? According to Rabbi, or according to R. Jose? 
Which Rabbi and R. Jose? Of the following Boraitha: If it falls 
on the eve of Sabbath, villages and large open cities used to 
read it on the day of assembly, and inhabitants of walled towns 
read it on that same day. Said Rabbi: J say that the large 
open towns must not have the appointed time postponed, and 
must be equal to walled towns, and both read the same day. 
And which R. Jose? From the following Tosephtha: If it falls 
on the eve of Sabbath, the inhabitants of walled towns and vil- 
lages read on the day of assembly, and the large open cities read 
on the appointed day. R. Jose, however, said: The inhabitants 
of walled towns do not read in advance of those of the large 
cities, but both read on the appointed day. But does Rabbi 
hold that for the inhabitants of large cities we do not change for 
the day of assembly ? Did we not learn in another Boraitha: If 
the Feast of Purim falls on Sabbath, the inhabitants of villages 
read in advance on the previous assembly day, and the inhab- 
itants of large open cities read on the eve of Sabbath, and those 
of walled towns on the day following? As the appointed day 
has already been changed for the inhabitants of large cities for 
the previous day, (I say) it shall be fixed on a day before, which 
is the assembly day ? What comparison is this? In case of the 
above Boraitha the right-time was on Sabbath, and as they had 
it changed it was set two days before; but in the previous Bo- 
raitha the right-time was the eve of Sabbath, why should it be 
changed? According to whom is what R. Helbu said in the 
name of R. Huna, as follows: If the Feast of Purim fall on Sab- 
bath all is postponed for the day of assembly (Thursday). [What 
is meant by ‘‘all’’? Is it possible, ‘‘ all’’ ? Do not the inhab- 





TRACT MEGILLA. 9 


itants of a walled town read it on the Sabbath itself ? It means, 
for those for whom it has to be postponed, it shall be set on the 
assembly day.] This will be according to Rabbi. 

We see, however, that all agree that the Megilla must not be 
read on the Sabbath. Why so? Said Rabha: All are obliged 
to read the Megilla, but not all are able to read it; and this is a 
precautionary measure, lest one take the Megilla in his hand and 
go with it to an expert to learn to read it, and at the same time 
he will carry four ells in public ground. (Therefore it must not 
be read on Sabbath at all.) And the same is the reason why we 
do not blow the cornet on the New Year’s day when it falls on 
Sabbath, and do not use the Lulab on the first day of the Feast 
of Tabernacles when it falls on Sabbath. R. Jose said: Here is 
another reason: It is because the poor hope only for the day 
when the Megilla is read to receive gifts, a thing which cannot 
be done on Sabbath. We have learned the same also in the fol- 
lowing Boraitha: Because it was said that the inhabitants of vil- 
lages read in advance on the day of assembly, the charity that 
must be given on that feast shall be collected and distributed on 
the same day, because the poor hope only for the day when the 
Megilla is read. The enjoyment of eating and drinking, how- 
ever, must be only on the appointed time. 

Rabh said: If the Megilla is read in the right-time, it may 
be read even by an individual; but if not on the right-time, then 
only when ten men are together. R. Assi, however, said: In 
both instances it must be read only when ten men are together. 
It happened once that Rabh had not ten men: he took the 
trouble to assemble ten men because of R. Assi’s decision. 

MISHNA: What must be considered as a large town? Any 
town in which there are ten Batlonim. Should there be less than 
that number, it is legally considered a village. It was said with 
respect to these, that ‘‘ it may be done sooner, but not later’’; 
but the day of the delivery of wood for the priests, the fast on 
the gth of Abh, the festive sacrifices, and the day of assembly 
(to fast and pray for rain) are to be postponed to a later day, 
but must not be kept before their proper time. 

Although it was said in respect to the reading of the Megilla 
that it may be done earlier but not later, it is yet permitted on 
these days to pronounce funeral orations and to fast, also to give 
the gifts to the poor. Said R. Jehudah: When is it allowed to 
read the Megilla before its proper time? In places where it is 
customary for the country people to assemble in the towns on 


be) THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Mondays and Thursdays; but where that does not take place, 
the Megilla may only be read on its proper day. 

GEMARA: We have learned in a Boraitha: By the ten 
Batlonim are meant those who are always in the house of prayer 
(and must be supported by the congregation, so that at the 
prayer should never be less than ten men, as is explained in 
Tract Berachoth). 

‘‘ It may be done sooner, but not later.’’ Why so? Said 
Samuel: Because in the Book of Esther it was said, ‘‘ shall not 
trespass.”’ 

‘* Delivery of wood for the priests, the 9thof Abh,” etc. The 
oth of Abh shall not be made sooner, because calamities are not 
lamented in advance; and concerning the festive sacrifice and 
the assembly, it cannot be done earlier, because that duty has 
not arrived yet. And a Boraitha taught: ‘‘ The festive sacri- 
fice, and all the time appointed for it (if it was not brought in its 
right time), can be postponed, but not made earlier.’’ It is right, 
the festive sacrifice itself; if the festival falls on Sabbath, we 
postpone it till after Sabbath.. But what is meant by “‘ its time 
shall be postponed’’? Said R. Ushia: The Boraitha meant to 
say thus: The feast-offering, when the festival falls on Sabbath, 
and the burnt-offering which must be brought when the pilgrims 
visit Jerusalem [see Deut. xvi. 16, 17], even when the festival 
did not fall on Sabbath, the offering had to be postponed for the 
time during the seven days after it. And this is according only 
to Beth Shammai (Betzah, Chap. II., Mishna 3). Rabha, how- 
ever, said: What is meant by “‘ the time of the feast-offering 
may be postponed’’? Only for the seven days it can be post- 
poned, not later. 

R. Eleazar said in the name of R. Hanina: Rabbi used to 
set out a plant on Purim, and washed himself in the market of 
Ziporith (publicly) on the 17th day of Tamuz (which is a fast- 
day), and intended to abolish the fast of the 9th of Abh. But 
the sages did not agree with him. Said to him R. Abba bar 
Zabda: Rabbi, this was not so, for it once happened when the 
oth of Abh fell on Sabbath, and it was postponed to Sunday, and 
Rabbi declared: When it has been postponed, it shall not be kept 
at all. And the sages did not agree with him. And the former 
then read the verse [in Ecc. iv. 9]: ‘‘ Two are better than one.”’ 
(Rashi explains this, that he means to say the second statement 
was better than the first; but it seems to us the explanation is 
different. He means to say that if so, both happened twice, and 





TRACT MEGILLA. II 


Rabbi did not intend to abolish the oth of Abh, but did 
abolish.) 

Hezekiah used to read the Megilla in Tiberia both days— 
the 14th and the 15th—because it was doubtful to him whether 
Tiberia had been surrounded with a wall from the time of Joshua 
b. Nun. But howcan this be doubtful? Is it not written [Josh. 
xix. 35]: ‘‘ And the fortified cities Ziddim, Zer and Chammath, 
Rakkath and Kinereth’’? And we have a tradition that Rak- 
kath is Tiberia. It was doubtful to him, because on one side 
the sea was its wall. If so, why is it doubtful? The sea is not 
a wall, and we have learned in a Boraitha that what is written 
[Lev. xxv. 30], ‘‘ the city that has a wall,’’ means a wall, but 
not if the houses are built around like a wall—and that excludes 
Tiberia where the sea is the wall? He was not doubtful in 
respect to the law about houses in a walled town, but in respect 
to the Megilla, because the expression in the Megilla is ‘‘ open 
towns,’’ and he doubted whether the city, having the sea asa 
wall, is called open or not. 

R. Asi used to read the Megilla in the city of Hutzl also on 
both days, because he doubted whether it was surrounded in the 
time of Joshua with a wall or not. According to others, R. 
Asi said: This Hutzl, which was in the tribe of Benjamin, I am 
certain was walled in the time of Joshua b. Nun. 

R. Johanan said: When I was a child I said a thing, and 
afterward the elders were asked, and it was found that I was 
right; namely, Hammath, that is, Tiberia. And why is it called 
in the Bible Hammath? Because of the hot springs that are in 
Tiberia.* Rakkath is Ziporith, but why is it called in the Bible 
Rakkath ? Because it is situated on the summit of a mountain, 
as the banks of a river are more elevated than the river.f Kin- 
ereth, that is, Genoser; but why is it called Kinereth ? Because 
the fruit of this city is agreeable as the sound of a violin.{ Said 
Rabha: Is it possible a man exists who says that Rakkath is not 
Tiberia? It is known to us that if a great man dies here in 
Babylon, they in Tiberia, in the funeral oration, say thus: The 
man was great in Sheshakh (Babylon,—Rashi explains this be- 
cause Sheshah is, by the alphabet of Athbash, Babel) and his 
name has reached Rakkath. And if the coffin is brought thither, 
they say in the funeral oration so: Ye lovers of Israel, inhab- 





* Ham is in Hebrew hot. 
+ Rakkath in Aramaic means the bank of a river, 
¢ Xinor is a violin. 


12 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


itants of Rakkath, go and receive the man who was killed in 
the valley of Babylon. And when R. Zera died, in the lamen- 
tation was mentioned Rakkath (see Moed Katan, p. 44.) There- 
fore said Rabha: Hammath means Hammei-Grar, Rakkath is 
. Tiberia, Kinereth is Genoser. And why is it called Rakkath ? 
Because even the common men there are full of religious merits 
as a pomegranate.* 

R. Jose bar Hanina said: It is written [Zechariah, ix. 7]: 
‘* And I will remove their blood out of their mouth, and their 
abominations from between their teeth; and their land also shall 
be left for our God.’’ I will remove their blood out of their 
mouth,—that means, their Beth Bamia ; + ‘‘ and their abomina- 
tions from between their teeth’’—that is, their Beth Gala ; + 
** and the land also will be left to our God’’ means, the houses 
of prayer and of learning which are in Edom (meaning Rome); 
*“and it shall be as a prince’s dwelling in Judah, and Ekron 
shall be like Jebusi’’—that means the theatres and circuses 
which were in Edom, but in the future the princes of Judah will 
teach the Torah publicly in them. R. Itz’hak said: Leshem 
is Pamias, Ekron is Cesaria—why is it called the daughter of 
Edom? Because it was the metropolis of kings. Same said 
because there kings were reared, and according to others because 
from the inhabitants of that city were made kings. Of Cesaria 
and Jerusalem—if one will say to thee, Both are destroyed, 
thou shalt not believe; if one will say, Both are in their splen- 
dor, do not believe; but if one will say, Cesaria was destroyed 
and Jerusalem is in its glory, or vice versa, you may believe, as 
it is written [in Ezek. xxvi. 2]: ‘‘ I shall be made full, now she 
is in ruins’’—that means, if one is full the other is destroyed, 
and if one is destroyed the other is full. R.Na’hman bar Itz’hak 
says, we infer it from the following passage [Gen. xxv. 23]: 
““one people shall be stronger than the other’’ (Israel and 
Edom, z.¢., Rome). And R. Itz’hak said: It is written [Is. 
xxvi. 10]: “‘If favor be shown to the wicked, he will not 
learn righteousness.’’ Isaac our father said before the Holy 
One, blessed be He: Creator of the Universe! let Esau be 
favored. And He said: ‘‘ He is wicked.’’ Said Isaac again: 
‘‘ It is because he has not learned righteousness.’’ And the Lord 
said again: ‘“‘(It is known before me that even) in the land of 





* Rek is in Hebrew empty, idle. 
+ Places for the worship of idols in Rome. 





TRACT MEGILLA. 33 


, 


uprightness he will deal unjustly.’’ Rejoined Isaac: “‘ If it is so, 
(then) he shall not regard the majesty of the Lord.’’ R. Itz’hak 
says again: It is written [Ps. cxl. 9]: “‘ Grant not, O Lord, the 
longings of the wicked: suffer not his wicked device to succeed: 
lest they exalt themselves. Selah.’’ Said Jacob before the Holy 
One, blessed be He: Creator of the Universe! do not grant toEsau 
the wicked longing of his heart; ‘‘ his wicked device to succeed,”’ 
meaning Germamia of Edom, for if they would go out they 
would destroy the whole world. He says again: If one will say to 
you: I have exerted myself, and not found, do not believe him; if 
one will say, I have not exerted myself, and have found, do not 
believe him. But if he will say, I have exerted myself, and 
have found, then believe him. This is all in the studying of the 
Law, but in business it is a matter of fortune sent from Heaven. 
And even in studying the Law you must not believe in his 
sagacity; but if he says what he has learned he has retained 
without much trouble, you may believe him, because this can 
be a help from Heaven. He says again: If you have seen a 
wicked man on whom fortune smiles, do not provoke him, as it 
is written [Ps. xxxvii. 7]: ‘‘ Do not fret thyself because of the 
evil-doers’’; so much the more when in his ways he is success- 
ful, as it is written [ibid. x. 5]: ‘‘ Prosperous are his ways:at all 
times.’’ And not only this, but he always wins in a lawsuit, as 
it is written [ibid., ibid.]: “‘ Far in the height remain thy pun- 
ishments from him;’’ and not this only, but he sees vengeance 
on his enemies, as it is written [ibid.]: ‘‘ All his assailants, he 
puffeth at them.’’ This is not so? Did not R. Johanan say 
in the name of R. Simeon b. Yochi, that one may provoke the 
wicked in this world? As it is written [Prov. xxviii. 4]: ‘‘ They 
that forsake the law praise the wicked; but such as observe the 
law contend with them.’’ And we have learned also in a Bo- 
raitha: R. Dusthai bar Mathun said: A man may provoke the 
wicked in this world? [And lest one say: ‘‘ Do not fret thyself 
because of the evil-doers, neither be thou envious against the 
workers of iniquity,’’ this can be said only about him whose 
heart trembles. But the interpretation of this passage is thus: 
‘* Do not strive to be like the wicked, neither be thou envious 
to be like the workers of iniquity,’’ as it is written [Prov. xxiii. 
17]: ‘‘ Let not thy heart be envious against sinners.’’] (Hence 
we see that the wicked may be provoked ?) It presents no diffi- 
culty, for if it is in his own interest he shall not do so; but if in 
heavenly things, he may. And if you like, I can say: Both are 


14 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


in his own interest; yet when he is a really upright man he may 
do so, but when he is not really upright he shall not do so. As 
R. Huna said: It is written [Habakkuk, i. 13]: ‘‘ Wherefore 
wilt thou look upon those that deal treacherously; and be silent 
when the wicked swalloweth up him that is more righteous than 
he?’’ From this we may infer that the wicked swallows him 
who is more righteous than he, but him who is really upright he 
cannot swallow. And if you wish, I can say: with him whom 
fortune favors it is different. 

MISHNA: If the Megilla had been read in the first Adar, 
and the year declared (by the Sanhedrin) to be intercalary, it 
must be again read in the second Adar. There is no difference 
between the first Adar and second, but in the reading of the 
Megilla and the gifts to the poor. 

GEMARA: The Mishna says that the two Adars do not dif- 
fer; that is to say, in the order of the portions that must be read 
from the Bible on the Sabbaths of the four weeks of Adar, the 
two Adars are equal. According to whom is the Mishna? 

Not according to the first Tana, and not according to R. 
Eliezer b. R. Jose, and not according to R. Simeon b. Gamaliel 
of the following Boraitha: If they have read only the Megilla in 
the first Adar, and the year becomes intercalary, it must be read 
again in the second Adar, because all the duties that are obliga- 
tory in the second Adar are so also on the first Adar, except the 
reading of the Megilla. R. Eliezer b. R. Jose said: It must not 
be read in the second Adar, because all the duties customary in 
the second are so also in the first. R. Simeon b. Gamaliel in 
the name of R. Jose said: It must be read also in the second 
Adar, because all the duties obligatory in the second must not 
‘be done in the first. And we asked there, is R. Simeon b. 
Gamaliel not saying the same as the first Tana? And R. Papa 
answered: The order of the portions is different between them. 
Hence our Mishna is not in accordance with the first Tana, 
because of the gifts to the poor, which according to the Tana 
of the Boraitha must be given in the first Adar also; and not in 
accordance with R. Eliezer, who says the Megilla must not be 
repeated at all in the second Adar; and not in accordance with 
R. Simeon b. Gamaliel, as according to him there is a differ- 
ence in the order of the portions (as R. Papa explained). The 
Mishna is in accordance with R. Simeon b. Gamaliel, but is not 
completed, and must read thus: There is no difference between 
the fourteenth day of the first Adar and the fourteenth day of 





TRACT MEGILLA. 15 


the second Adar, except in the reading of the Megilla and gifts 
to the poor. But the next day, in respect to mourning and 
fasting, they are equal. Concerning the order of the portions, 
the Mishna does not speak about it. Said R. Hyya bar Abin 
in the name of R. Johanan: The Halakha prevails according to 
what Rabban Simeon b. Gamaliel said in the name of R. Jose. 
Said R. Tabi: The reason why R. Simeon b. Gamaliel declares 
so is, that one redemption (from Haman) should be near to 
another redemption (from Egypt, Passover). R. Elazar said: 
The reason of R. Simeon b. Gamaliel is, because it is written 
in Esther [ix. 29]: ‘‘ To confirm this letter of Purim the second 
time.’’ ‘‘ The second ’’ méans in the second Adar. 

R. Samuel bar Jehudah said: Esther sent to the sages the 
request: ‘‘ Establish me for the later generations.’’ And they 
answered: ‘‘ You want to excite the envy of other nations 
against us.’’ She rejoined: ‘‘ My history is already written in 
the chronicle of the kings of Media and Persia.’’ Rabh and R. 
Hanina, R. Johanan and R. Habiba (see Sukka, page 5), taught: 
Esther sent to the sages: ‘‘ Write about me for later genera- 
tions.’’ And they answered to her: It is written [Prov. xxii. 
20]: ‘‘ Have I not written for thee thrice?’’ * (thrice means, three 
times shall be mentioned in the Torah the war with Amalek—in 
Exodus, in Deuteronomy, and in I. Samuel): only thrice, and 
not four times. Finally, they found a passage in the Pentateuch 
[Ex. xvii. 14]: ‘‘ Write this for a memorial in the book’’; and 
they interpreted the passage thus: ‘“‘ Write this ’’—what is writ- 
ten here and in Deuteronomy; “‘ for a memorial ’’—+#.e., what is 
written in the Prophets (Samuel); “‘ in the book ’’—+#.e., what is 
written in the Book of Esther. We have learned in a Boraitha: 
R. Eliezer said: The Book of Esther was dictated by the Holy 
Spirit, as it is written [Esther, v. 16]: ‘‘ And Haman said in his 
heart’’; and if it were not by the Holy Spirit, how could we 
know what he said in his heart? R. Agqiba said: ‘‘ Esther”’ 
was dictated by the Holy Spirit because it is written [ibid. ii. 
15]: ‘‘ And Esther found favor in the eyes of a// those that 
beheld her’”’ (this also could not be known, but for the Holy 
Spirit). R. Meir said: ‘‘ Esther’’ was dictated by the Holy 
Spirit, because it is written [ibid. 22]: ‘‘ And the thing became 
known to Mordecai’’ (and who told him? We must say that it 





* The expression is Shalishim, which the Talmud translates literally, ‘‘ thrice ” 
—though in Leeser it is different. 





16 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


was the Holy Spirit). R. Jose b. Durmaskes said: From this 
passage [ix. 10]: “‘ But to the spoil did they not stretch forth 
their hands’’ (and it could not be known what was done in the 
one hundred and twenty-seven provinces by everyone). Said 
Samuel: If I had been there, I would have said a thing better 
than all these sayings: It is written [ibid., ibid. 27]: ‘‘ The Jews 
confirmed it as a duty, and took it upon themselves.’’ That | 
means, they confirmed in Heaven what they took upon them- 
selves below. Said Rabha: To all the above sayings I have 
objections, except to Samuel, to. whom it cannot be objected. 
What R. Eliezer said—that was common sense. Haman knew 
there was not a man in the king’s court that was so respected as 
he himself, and it is self-evident that thus he thought. What 
R. Agiba said—perhaps it was as R. Elazar explains farther on, 
that every nation thought Esther was of its race; and what R. 
Meir said—perhaps it was as R. Hyya bar Abbi will explain 
farther on, that Mordecai understood the language of Rigthau 
and Theres; and what R. Jose b. Durmaskes said—perhaps they 
may have sent messengers to the king; but to what Samuel said 
there is no objection. Said Rabbina: That is as people say, it 
is better to have one pungent pepper-grain than a full basket 
of cucumbers. R. Joseph said: From this passage [ix. 28]: 
‘* And these days of Purim will not pass away’’ (and how can 
this be known? Only from the Holy Spirit), And R. Na’hman 
b. Itz’hak said (from the end of the verse): ‘‘ Nor will their 
memorial cease from their seed.’’ 

‘““ Gifts to the poor.’’ R. Joseph taught: It is written [ix. 
22]: ‘‘ Sending portions one to another.’’ ‘‘ Portions’’ in plural 
—two portions should be sent to one man; “‘ and gifts to the 
needy ’’—needy is in plural: that means, no less than two por- 
tionstotwomen. R. Jehudah the Second* sent to R. Oshyia a 
leg of a third-born calf and a pitcher of wine, and the latter sent 
to him the message: ‘‘ The Master has confirmed both duties— 
to send portions one to another; and to give gifts to the needy.”’ 
Rabha sent to Mari bar Mar through Abayi a bag of dates and 
a goblet full of flour of dried wheat. Said Abayi to him: Now 
Mari will say: When a countryman becomes a king, he is still 
unable to remove the basket from his shoulder. And it is the 
same with you: now you are the Head of the College, and send 





* We doubt whether it was the second or the third, as there were also two Oshyias, 
one in the time of the second and one in the time of the third. See Seder Hadoroth, 
parag. Oshyia, 





TRACT MEGILLA. 17 


to him commonplace articles. R. Mari bar Mar returned to 
Rabha through Abayi a pouch (¢asca, Lat.) of ginger and a goblet 
full of long pepper. Said Abayi: Now the Master will say: I 
had sent him sweets, and he has sent to me pungent things. 
Said Abayi again: When I went out from the house of my 
Master, I was sated. When I arrived there, they furnished the 
table with sixty diverse dishes, and they ate all; and the last 
dishes were called ‘‘ roast of Kedar,’’ and it was so good that 
I wanted to eat up the dish with it. And this is what people 
say: “‘ The poor does not know even when he is hungry.’’ Or, 
as people say: ‘‘ The stomach is wide enough for sweet things.”’ 

Abayi bar Abbin and R. Hanina bar Abbin used to change 
their meals on Purim. Said Rabha: A man is obliged to in- 
toxicate himself on Purim, till he cannot distinguish between 
‘cursed be Haman ”’ and “ blessed be Mordecai.’’ Rabha said 
again: If one has eaten the festive meal in the night, he has not 
fulfilled his duty, because it is written, ‘‘ days of entertainment 
and joy.”’ 

R. Ashi was sitting in the presence of R. Kahana. It 
became dark, and the rabbis had not yet come. Said R. 
Kahana to him: Why have not the rabbis come yet? And he 
answered him: Perhaps they are engaged with the festive meal ? 
And he rejoined: Could they not have the festive meal in the 
evening ? Said R. Ashi: Has the Master not heard what Rabha 
said, that if one has eaten the meal of Purim in the night, he 
has not fulfilled his duty. And he rejoined: Did Rabha indeed 
say so? And he answered: Yea. And he learned it from him 
forty times, and afterward it was as if he had put it into his 
pocket. 

MISHNA: There is no difference between Sabbath and fes- 
tivals, except in the preparation of food. There is no difference 
between the Sabbath and the Day of Atonement, excepting that 
those who knowingly and wilfully profane the Sabbath are pun- 
ished by man, while those who wilfully profane the Day of 
Atonement are punished with Karoth (by Heaven). 

There is no difference between one who by a vow has inter- 
dicted himself from receiving a benefit from another man and 
one whose vow was confined to the interdiction of accepting any 
food from another, except that it is not lawful for the first to set 
his foot in the house (or property) of the other and to borrow 
vessels (of the other) which are not used for the preparation of 


food. There is no difference between vows and voluntary offer- 
2 


18 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


ings, except that in the case of the first-mentioned the person 
who thus vows is liable for the risk, but he is not liable for the 
last-mentioned. 

GEMARA: “‘ Except in the preparation of food.’’ But in 
the preparations for the preparing of food, they are equal. 

‘* He ts punished with Karoth.’’ But in paying of damages, 
both are equal. And the Mishna is in accordance with R. 
Nehunia b. Hakana of the following Boraitha: He decided that 
the Day of Atonement is equal to Sabbath with regard to dam- 
ages: as on Sabbath, because it is a capital punishment, no 
damages are to be paid, so on the Day of Atonement, as the 
punishment is Karoth, he is exempt from damages. 

‘‘ Vessels which are not used,’’ etc. But in regard to vessels 
which ave used for the preparation of food, they are equal. 

“* He is not liable for the last-mentioned.’’ But with regard 
to the commandment, ‘‘ Thou shalt not delay,’’ they are equal. 
(This is explained in Tract Rosh Hashana, page 5.) 

MISHNA: There is no difference between a person laboring 
under an involuntary emission of semen who has experienced it 
twice (on the same day, or on the two following days) and one 
who has experienced it thrice (in the same time, or within three 
days), excepting that the last-mentioned must bring a sacrifice. 
There is no difference between a leprous person who has only 
been shut up and one whom the priest has declared as leprous, 
excepting that the latter must go with rent clothes, and suffer 
the hair of his head to grow wild. There is no difference be- 
tween the leper declared clean after being shut up and one who — 
has been cured of that disease, excepting that the latter must 
be shaved, and bring offerings of birds. 

There is no difference between the Holy Books and Thephi- 
lin and Mezuzoth, except that the first-mentioned may be writ- 
ten in any language, but the latter in Assyrian characters only. 
Rabban Simeon b. Gamaliel says: The permission to write the 
Holy Books in another language was limited to the Greek lan- 
guage only. 

There is no difference between a high-priest anointed with 
the sacred oil and one whose dignity was marked by additional 
sacerdotal vestments only, except the bull which the first- 
mentioned is to offer, in case he gave a wrong decision which 
led to a transgression of a precept. There is no difference 
between an officiating high-priest and his late substitute, 
except the bull offered on the Day of Atonement, and the 





TRACT MEGILLA. 19 


tenth of the ephah of flour (which the real high-priest alone 
might offer). 

There is no difference between a large high place * and a small 
one, except the Paschal offering. This is the rule: All offerings 
which are brought in consequence of vows, and all peace-offer- 
ings, may be offered on a small high place, but not sacrifices of 
another kind. 

There was no difference between the Tabernacle of Shiloh 
and the Temple of Jerusalem, except that at the former place it 
was lawful to eat of sacrifices having a minor degree of holiness, 
and of the second tithe, in any place from whence Shiloh might 
be seen; but in Jerusalem it was lawful to eat these within the 
walls only. In both places, however, sacrifices which were most 
holy might be only eaten within the hangings (of the court of 
the sanctuary). The holiness of Shiloh had subsequently a 
period in which it became lawful (to offer sacrifices elsewhere), 
but the holiness of Jerusalem has no such period. 

GEMARA: “' Excepting that the last-mentioned must bring a 
sacrifice.”’ But in respect to their lying, sitting, and the seven 
days which they have to wait till it is allowed to take a legal 
bath, both are equal (all this will be explained in Tract Zabim). 

‘“‘ There is no difference between a leprous person,’’ etc. But 
in regard to sending him away outside of the assembly and in 
respect to defilement they are both equal (as will be explained 
in Tract Negaim). 

‘* There ts no difference between the Holy Books,’’ etc. But to 
sew it with dried veins of a clean animal and to make unclean 
the hand (see Appendix, Sabbath) both are equal. 

‘* May be written in any language.’’ There is a contradiction 
to the following Boraitha: If one wrote a Targum instead of 
portions of the Holy Book (in the original); or, vice versa, if he 
wrote the translation in characters of the original, and also if he 
wrote it not in Assyrian but ancient Hebrew (square) characters, 
it is not holy to make unclean the hand, until it should be writ- 
ten in Assyrian characters, in a book and with ink (and there it 
has been said the Holy Books can be written in all languages). It 
presents no difficulty: the Boraitha meant, not Holy Books, but 
the Thephilin and Mezuzoth, and the Mishna means Scripture. 
What is the reason that Thephilin and Mezuzoth if written in 





* High places are the public altars on which they used to sacrifice before the 
erection of the Temple at Jerusalem. Small places are altars of private persons. 





20 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


another tongue are not holy? Because it is written [Deut. vi. 
8]: ‘* They shall be as frontlets between thy eyes.’’ They shall 
be as originally. 

What is meant, if the Targum was written in the original 
characters? If in the Torah, it is right. The words ‘‘ Yegar 
Sahadutha”’ [Gen. xxxi. 47] are Aramaic; but what Aramaic 
words are in the Thephilin? Therefore we must answer the 
contradition thus: The Boraitha refers to the Book of Esther. 
Why must it not be written in other languages? Because it is 
written [ Esther, viii. g]: ‘‘ According to their writing, and accord- 
ing to their language.’’ But what Aramaic words are in the 
Book of Esther? Said R. Papa [in Chapter I., verse 20], ‘‘ The 
king’s decree’’ (Pithgam), which is not a Hebrew word, but 
Aramaic. R. Na’hman bar Itz’hak said |ibid., ibid.]: The last 
word, ‘* will show vespect’’ (Yekar), is not Hebrew. R. Ashi, 
however, said: That the Boraitha means, not the Holy Scrolls 
(Pentateuch), but the Prophets and Hagiographa. And this is in 
accordance with R. Jehudah of the following Boraitha: Thephi- 
lin and Mezuzoth must. be written only in Assyrian characters; 
and our sages have not allowed they shall be written in any lan- 
guage, only in Greek. And in addition to this Boraitha it is stated : 
Said R. Jehudah: The sages allowed to write in Greek only the 
Pentateuch, but not anything else. And this was also allowed only 
because of what occurred with Ptolemy the king, as follows: It 
happened to Ptolemy the king that he took seventy-two elders 
from Jerusalem, and placed them in seventy-two separate cham- 
bers, and did not inform them to what purpose he had brought 


them. And afterward he entered to each of them, and said to 


- them: Translate me the Torah of Moses from memory. And the 
Holy One, blessed be He, sent into the heart of each of them a 
counsel, and they all agreed to have one mind, and changed as 
follows: Instead of “‘ In the beginning God created the world,’’ 
they wrote, ‘‘ God created the world in the beginning ’’; instead 
of Gen. i. 26 they wrote, ‘‘ J will make a man in an image’’; in- 
stead of Gen. ii. 2 they wrote, “‘ And God finished on the sixth 
day, and rested on the seventh day’’; instead of Gen. v. 2 they 
wrote, ‘‘ created him’’; instead of Gen. xi. 7 they wrote, ‘“ Let 
me go down”’; [xviii. 12]: ‘‘ And Sarah laughed among her rela- 
tives’; instead of xlix. 6, ‘‘ In their anger they slew an ox, and 
their self-will lamed a fattened ox.’’ And instead of Ex. iv. 20, 
*“ Set them on a porter (man-carrier)’’; instead of ibid. xii. 40, 
‘“‘ Dwelt in Egypt and in other lands’’; and ibid. xxiv. as ibid., 


' 


psittaci? 


ah A 


om 
A a 
bar sy 
ort 
i 
ne 
we 
aa 
na % 
vag 
r 
a 
it 
ie 
a 
N> 
yup. * 
+ =% 
+3 
i 
i, 
2 4 
AS 
rh 
+ a 
1 
oo 





TRACT MEGILLA. 21 


‘* Against the respectable men of Israel.’’ Instead of Num. xvi. 
15, ‘‘ Not one precious thing I took away’’; and instead of 
Deut. iv. 19 they wrote, ‘‘ assigned to light for all nations’’; 
instead of ibid. xvii. 3, ‘‘ which I have not commanded to wor- 
ship’’; and instead of Lev. xi. 6, “‘ the hare,’’ which is expressed 
in the Bible ‘‘ Arnebeth,’’ as Ptolemy’s wife was named so they 
wrote, ‘‘ and the beast that has small feet.’’ 

‘© Rabban Simeon b. Gamaliel says,’’ etc. Said R. Abahu in 
the name of R. Johanan: The Halakha prevails according to 
R. Simeon b. Gamaliel. And he says again: What is the reason 
of R. Simeon b. Gamaliel ? Because it is written [Gen. ix. 27]: 
““ May God enlarge the boundaries of Japheth, and may he dwell 
in the tents of Shem.’’ That means to say, the most beautiful 
thing which Japheth has—that is, the Greek language—shall 
dwell in the tents of Shem. 

‘“* There is no difference between a high-priest,’’ etc. But in 
respect to the bullock of the Day of Atonement, and the tenth 
of an ephah, which the high-priest must bring, both are equal. 

** There ts no difference between Shiloh and Jerusalem.’’ Said 
R. Itz’hak: I have heard that one may sacrifice in the Temple 
of Honin in Egypt, even at this time. He holds that the Tem- 
ple of Honin is not a temple for idolatry, but for God, and also 
that the sanctitude of Jerusalem was only while the Temple 
existed, but is not so for the future, since its destruction. As 
it is written [Deut. xii. 9]: ‘‘ For ye are not as yet come to the 
rest and to the inheritance.’’ ‘‘ To the rest,’’ z.e., the Taber- 
nacle of Shiloh; ‘‘ to the inheritance,’’ z.¢., the Temple of Jeru- 
salem: and we see that the Tabernacle of Shiloh is compared to 
the Temple of Jerusalem, as Shiloh, after the Tabernacle was 
destroyed, ceased to be holy, and it was lawful to sacrifice else- 
where, the same was with Jerusalem. The sages then said to R. 
Itz’hak: Do you sayso? And heanswered: No. Said Rabha: 
I swear by God that he has said so, and I have learned it from 
him. But what is the reason that he himself receded from this ? 
Because R. Mari objected to this, from a Boraitha which states 
that the sanctitude of Shiloh was gone after the Tabernacle was 
destroyed, but of Jerusalem the sanctitude was not gone even 
after the Temple’s destruction. 

It is written: ‘‘ And it came to pass in the days of Ahasue- 
rus.’’ R. Levi, according to others R. Jonathan, said: This is 
a tradition among us from our ancestors—the men of the Great 
Assembly—that wherever it is written 975) (it came to pass), 


22 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


was some disaster. Here there was Haman. In Ruth: ‘‘ And 
it came to pass in the days of the judges.’’ There was hunger. 
Genesis, vi. 1: ‘‘ And it came to pass when men began to multi- 
ply,’’ and soon after is written: ‘‘ And God saw that the wicked- 
ness of man was great’’; [ibid. xi. 2]: ‘‘ And it came to pass as 
they journeyed toward the east.’’ And there was the disper- 
sion. And ibid. xiv. 1: “‘ And it came to pass in the days of 
Amrophel.’’ There was a war. In Joshua, v. 13: ‘‘ It came 
to pass when Joshua was by Jericho,”’ it is written he saw a man 
with a drawn sword in his hand; ibid. vi. 27: ‘‘ And the Lord 
was with Joshua’’ (the Hebrew expression is the same); and 
soon it is written: ‘‘ And the children of Israel committed a 
trespass’’; I Samuel: ‘‘ There was a certain man’’; and after- 
ward it is written: ‘‘ Hannah he loved, but the Lord had shut 
her womb.”’ Ibid. viii. 1: ‘‘ It came to pass when Samuel was 
old.’’ His sons walked not in his way. Ibid. xviii. 14: “‘ And 
David was successful in all his ways,’’ and soon comes: ‘‘ Saul 
was in dread of him.’’ II Samuel, vii. 1: ‘‘ And it came to pass 
when the king dwelt in his house.’’ And he was not allowed 
to build the Temple. But is it not written [Gen. xxix. 16]: 
‘* When Jacob saw Rachel,’’ and in Genesis [i. 5]: ‘‘ And it was 
evening, and it was morning, the first day’’—and so in many 
other instances, and no disaster happened ? Wherever it is said, 
‘“‘it came to pass,’’ there may or may not be a calamity; but 
whenever it is said, “‘ and it came to pass in the days,’’ there 
surely happened a misfortune. There are five expressions, “‘ it 
came to pass in the days’’; viz., in the days of Ahasuerus, the 
Judges, Amrophel, Ahaz [Is. vii.], and Yoiakim [Jerem. i.], and 
in all instances there were troubles. 

R. Levi says again: We have a tradition from our ancestors 
that Amuz and Amaziah were brothers. What does he come to 
teach us? It is similar to what R. Samuel b. Nahmani said in 
the name of R. Jonathan: A bride who is chaste in the house of 
her husband’s parents deserves that kings and prophets should 
descend from her, and this we infer from Tamar, as it is 
written [Gen. xxxviii. 15]: ‘‘ And Judah saw her and thought 
her to be a harlot, because she had covered her face.’’ Be- 
cause she had covered her face he took her for a harlot? 
That means, she had covered her face when she had been 
in his house, so that he did not know her. Therefore she 
was rewarded that from her descended kings and prophets— 
kings from David; and prophets, as R. Levi said above. Amuz 


. is “ete 


ie Dies 


4 
r 
i; 


a 


os 
ya 
“he 
73 
. 
is 
| 





TRACT MEGILLA. 23 


and Amaziah were brothers, and Isaiah the son of Amuz was 
a prophet. 

R. Jonathan, when he came to lecture about the Book of 
Esther, began with this passage [Is. xiv. 22]: ‘‘I will rise up 
against them,”’ etc., ‘‘ and I will cut from Babylon name and 
remnant, and son and grandson, saith the Lord.’’ Name, z.z., 
they will not have their own writing; “‘ remnant,’’ they will not 
have their own language; ‘‘ son,’’ they will not have any king- 
dom; “‘ grandchild,’’ that means Vashti. 

R. Simeon b. Nahmani, when he came to lecture, began his 
lecture with the passage [Is. lv. 13]: ‘*‘ Instead of the thorn shall 
come up the fir-tree, and instead of the nettle shall come up the 
myrtle.’’ ‘‘ Instead of the thorn,”’ z.¢., instead of Haman the 
wicked, who made himself an idol, as it is written [ibid. vii. 19]. 
‘* All thorn-hedges’’; ‘‘ shall come up the fir-tree,’’ z.¢., Mor- 
decai, who was the essence to all the spices, as it is written [Ex. 
xxx. 23]: ‘‘ And thou, take unto thyself principal spices, of pure 
myrrh ’’—this is translated in the Aramaic Mor-decai; ‘‘ instead 
of the nettle,’’ z.¢., Vashti the wicked, who was granddaughter 
of Nebuchadnezzar the wicked, who had burnt the house of 
God, shall rise Esther the upright, who was called Hadassa 
(Myrtle), as it is written: ‘“ And he had brought up Hadassah 
—that is, Esther’’ [Esther, ii. 7]; ‘‘ And it shall be unto the 
Lord for a name,’’ z.¢., the reading of the Megilla; ‘‘ for a sign 
of everlasting that shall not be cut off,’’ z.e., the Days of Purim. 

R. Joshua b. Levi began his lecture from this passage [Deut. 
xxviii. 63]: “‘ And it shall come to pass that as the Lord rejoiced 
over you to do you good, and to multiply you, so will the Lord 
rejoice over you to bring you to nought, and to destroy you.”’ 
Let us see. Does the Holy One, blessed be He, rejoice when 
the wicked are in misfortune? It is written [II Chron. xx. 21]: 
‘“As they went out before the armed array, and said: Give 
thanks unto the Lord; for unto everlasting endureth his kind- 
ness.’’ Said R. Johanan: Why is it not here said, as usually, 
‘‘for He is good’’? Because the Holy One, blessed be He, 
rejoices not at the misfortunes of the wicked. And R. Johanan 
said again: It is written [Ex. xiv. 20]: ‘‘ And the one came not 
unto the other all the night.’” That means, the angels of heaven 
wanted to sing the usual song, and the Holy One, blessed be 
He, said to them: My creatures are drowning in the sea, and 
you want to sing songs! Said R. Elazar: He Himself does 
not rejoice, but He makes others rejoice. And it seems to be 








24 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


so, because it is not written: ‘‘ As he rejoiced,”’ etc., ‘‘ so will 
he rejoice ’’ (others).* 

R. Abba bar Kahana began his lecture with this passage 
[Ecc. ii. 26]: ‘‘ For to a man who is good in His presence He 
giveth wisdom and knowledge and joy ’’—this means Mordecai ~ 
the Upright; “‘ but to the sinner he giveth employment to gather 
up and to bring together’’—that means Haman; “‘ that he may 
give it to him that is good before God,’’ z.e., Mordecai and 
Esther, as it is written afterward [ Esther, viii. 2}: ‘‘ And Esther 
appointed Mordecai over the house of Haman.’ 

Rabba bar Upbron began his lecture with the felipwiic pas- 

sage [Jerem. xlix. 38] : ‘‘ And I will set up my throne in Elam, 
and I will destroy thence kings and princes.’’ By kings is meant 
Vashti, and by princes Haman and his ten sons. 

And R. Dimi b. Itz’hak begins to lecture from this passage 
[Ezra, ix. 9]: “‘ For we are bondmen; yet in our bondage hath 
our God not forsaken us, but hath extended unto us kindness 
before the kings of Persia.’’ And that was in the time of Mor- 
decai. 

R. Hanina bar Papa begins his lecture from this passage [Ps. 
Ixvi. 12]: ‘‘ Thou hast caused men to ride on our heads: we 
entered into fire and into water.’’ ‘‘ Into fire,’’ in the time of 
Nebuchadnezzar; ‘‘ into water,’’ in the time of Pharaoh. ‘‘ But 
thou broughtest us to the enjoyment of overflowing plenty.’’ 
That was in the time of Haman. 

R. Johanan began his lecture from this passage [Ps. xcviii. 
3]: ‘‘ He hath remembered his kindness and his truth to the 
house of Israel: all the ends of the earth have seen the salvation 
of our God.’’ When did all the ends of the earth see it? In 
the time of Mordecai and Esther. 

Resh Lakish began his lecture with this passage [Prov. 
xxviii. 15]: ‘‘ As a roaring lion and greedy bear, so is a wicked _ 
ruler over an indigent people.’’ ‘‘ The roaring lion ’’—that is, 
Nebuchadnezzar, as it is written [Jeremiah, iv. 7]: ‘‘ The lion is 
come up from his thicket.’’ ‘‘ A greedy bear’’ is Ahasuerus, 
about whom it is written [Daniel, vii. 5]: ‘‘ And behold, there 
was another, a second beast, like a bear.’’ And R. Joseph said: 
The Persians are meant, who eat and drink like a bear, and are 
corpulent like a bear, and let their hair grow like a bear, and 





* The Hebrew is wry, ‘‘he will make rejoice.” ‘‘ He will rejoice himself” 
should have been pi”. 





TRACT MEGILLA. 25 


have no repose, like a bear. ‘* Wicked ruler,’’ z.¢., Haman; 
‘‘ indigent people,’”’ z.e., Israel, who are poor in merits. 

R. Elazar begins his lecture with this passage [Ecc. x. 18]: 
‘‘ Through slothful hands the rafters will sink, and through idle- 
ness of the hands the house will become leaky.’’ That means 
to say, because Israel became idle, and did not observe the Law, 
the enemy of the Holy One, blessed be He anes Him), 
becomes sunk, 2.¢., poor. 

R. Na’hman b. Itz’hak begins his lecture with this passage 
[Ps. cxxiv. 2]: ‘‘ If it had not been the Lord who was for us, 
when men rose up against us.’’ Men, and not a king (that is 
Haman). 

Rabha begins his lecture with [Prov. xxix. 2]: ‘‘ When the 
righteous are in authority, the people will rejoice; but when the 
wicked beareth rule, the people groan.’’ When the righteous 
rule, z.e., Mordecai and Esther, the people rejoice, as it is writ- 
ten [Esther, viii. 15]: “‘ And the city of Shushan was glad and 
joyful.’”’ And when the wicked rule, z.e., Haman, the people 
groan, as it is written [ibid. iv. 15]: ‘*‘ But the city of Shushan 
was perplexed.”’ 

R. Mathna begins with the following passage [Deut. iv. 7]: 
‘‘ For what great nation is there that hath God so nigh unto 
it # 

R. Ashi begins with the following passage [ibid., ibid. 34]: 
‘‘Or hath God essayed to go to take to himself a nation from 
the midst of a nation ?’’ (What they lectured is not written.) 

‘* And it came to pass in the time of Ahasuerus.’’ Said Rabh: 
Woe! woe! This is what is written [ibid. xxviii. 68]: ‘“‘ And 
there ye will offer yourselves for sale unto your enemies for 
bondmen and bondwomen without anyone to buy you.’’ Sam- 
uel said: It is written [Lev. xxvi. 44]: ‘‘I will not cast them 
away, neither will I loathe them, to destroy them utterly.”’ I 
have not cast them away—in the times of the Greek, and I have 
not loathed them—in the time of Nebuchadnezzar; “‘ to destroy 
them ’’—in the time of Haman; ‘‘ to break my covenant with 
them ’’—in the time of the Persians; “* for I am the Lord their 
God’’—in the time of Gog and Magog. A Boraitha stated: 
**T will not cast away’’—in the times of the Chaldeans, as in 
that time I raised for them Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and 
Azariah; and have not loathed men in the times of the Greeks, 
when I gave them Simeon the Upright and the Maccabees; “‘ to 
destroy them ’’—in the time of Haman I gave them Mordecai 


26 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


and Esther; ‘‘to break my covenant ’’—in the time of Rome I 
gave them the House of Rabbi and the sages of that generation; 
“‘for I am the Lord their God’’—in the future no nation or 
tongue will dominate over them. 

R. Levi said: From this verse [Num. xxxiii. 55], and R. 
Hyya from ibid. 56. (What they lectured is unknown.) 

‘¢ Ahasuerus.’’ Said Rabh: He was the brother of a head * 
and the.companion of a head. ‘‘ The brother of a head,’’ z.¢., 
brother of Nebuchadnezzar the wicked, who was called ‘‘ head,’’ 
as it is written [Daniel, ii. 38]: ‘‘ Thou art the head of gold.’’ 
“And the companion of a head ’’—what Nebuchadnezzar did, he 
intended to do. Nebuchadnezzar killed, 4e intended; Nebu- 
chadnezzar destroyed, He had the intention. As it is written 
[Ezra, iv.]: “‘In the beginning of the reign of Ahasuerus, 
they wrote slanders on the inhabitants of Judea and Jerusa- 
lem.’’ Samuel said: Ahasuerus signifies ‘‘ black,’’+ ze, in 
his time the faces of the Jews were black as the bottoms of 
pots. R. Johanan says: Ahasuerus signifies “‘ woe to his head ”’ 
(ah, rosh) ; and R. Hanina says it signifies “‘ poor’’ (rash)—his 
taxes were so heavy that men became poor. 

It is written [Esther, i. 1]: ‘‘ The same Ahasuerus’’—he 
was the same in his wickedness from beginning to end. (Sim- 
ilarly) it is written [in Gen. xxxvi. 43]: ‘‘ This is Esau,’’ z.e., 
the same in wickedness from beginning to end; and [Num. xxvi. 
9]: ‘‘ These are Dathan and Abiram,’’ z.¢., they were the same 
in wickedness always; and [II Chron. xxviii. 22]: ‘‘ He, King 
Ahaz,’’ z.e., the same in wickedness always; and on the con- 
trary, also [I Chron. i. 27]: ‘‘ Abram—the same is Abraham,”’ 
z.e., Abraham was the same in his righteousness from beginning 
to end; [Ex. vi. 26]: ‘“ These are Aaron and Moses,”’ 7.¢., were 
the same in righteousness from beginning to end; [I Samuel, 
xvii. 14]: “‘ And David was the youngest,’’ that means, he was 
as in his youth from beginning to end: as in his youth he hum- 
bled himself before one greater than he, so also when he was a 
king he was modest before a man superior to him in wisdom. 

““ Who reigned.’ Said Rabh: He was a self-made king. 
Some say, it was in his praise, there was none so fit to be a king 
as he; and some say it is to his disgrace—he was not fit to be a 
king, but he had much money, and the money made him king. 





* Ahk is brother and Ras is head, and it is considered as composed of two words, 
+ Sha’ hor is ‘* black.” 





TRACT MEGILLA. 27 


The rabbis taught: Three kings reigned over the whole 
world—Ahab, Ahasuerus, and Nebuchadnezzar. Ahab, as it is 
written [I Kings, xviii. 10]: ‘‘ As the Lord thy God liveth 

he caused that kingdom and nation to take an 
oath . . .’’; and if they would not be under his dominion, 
how could he cause them to take an oath ? Nebuchadnezzar, as 
it is written [Jerem. xxvii. 8]: ‘‘ And it will come to pass that 
the nation or kingdom which shall not serve Nebuchadnezzar, 
king of Babylon, and not place its neck under the yoke of the 
king of Babylonia.’’ Ahasuerus, as stated in Sanhedrin, was 
king of the whole world. Are these all? Was not Solomon 
also king of the whole world? Solomon was not a king to the 
end of his life. 

This is right, according to those who hold he was first a king 
and then a common man; but according to those who say he 
was a king, a common man, and then again a king, what can 
be said? Solomon is different. He reigned over the beings 
above* and below, as it is written [I Chron. xxix. 23]: ‘‘ Solo- 
mon sat on the throne of the Lord.’’ (He is not reckoned with 
them.) But there is Sennacherib? As it is written [Is. xxxvi. 
19]: ‘‘ Which of all the gods of the lands have saved their coun- 
tries from my hand-?’’ There was Jerusalem, which was not 
subject tohim.. But there is Darius? As it is written [Dan. vi. 
26]: ‘‘ Darius the king wrote to all peoples, nations, and tongues 
that live on the whole earth: Your peace shall be great.’” There 
were seven countries not under his dominion; as it is written 
[ibid. 2]: “‘ It pleased Darius, and he raised over his kingdom 
120 satraps’’ (while Ahasuerus reigned over 127). But there is 
Cyrus? As it is written [Ezra, i.]: ‘‘So said Cyrus, king of 
Persia: All the kingdoms of the earth the Lord hath given unto 
me.’’ He only vaunted. 

‘‘ When the king sat,’’ and, ‘‘ in the third year of his reign.’’ 
That is a contradiction? Nay, it is when he became firmly 
seated on the throne. 

R. Na’hman b. Hisda lectured: It is written [Is. xlv. 7]: 
‘‘ Thus hath said the Lord to his anointed, to Cyrus, ‘ Whom 
I have taken hold of by his right hand.’’’ Was then Cyrus a 
Messiah? It is meant that God had said to Messiah: I com- 
plain of Cyrus; I have thought he would build my House, and 
gather all my people that were in exile, and he only says [Ezra, 





* According to Rashi—‘‘ the demons.” 





28 ‘THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


i. 3]: ‘‘ Whoever among you that is of all his people, may his 
God be with him, and let him go up to Jerusalem”’ [but did 
not command all to return]. 

It is written in the first chapter: ‘‘ The army of Persia and 
Media’’; and [x. 2] ‘‘ The kings of Media and Persia.’” Why 
is Media here mentioned first, and in the other verse Persia? 
Said Rabha: They made this agreement between them: When 
one of our nation will be king, the governors will be of your 
nation, and vice versa, [ibid. i. 5]: ‘‘ And when these days 
were completed.’’ Rabh and Samuel say, one that he was a 
wise king, and the other that he was a foolish king. One says 
he was a wise king, because he made the feast first for the 
remote subjects, because for his townsmen he could make it at 
any time; and the other says he was a fool, for he should have 
made it first for his townsmen, so that if those would rebel, 
these at least would defend him. 

The disciples of R. Simeon b. Yochi asked their Master: By 
what sins had the Israelites incurred the decree of Haman in 
that age? Answered he: What is your opinion? They said: 
Because they enjoyed the feast which Ahasuerus the wicked 
man made. If so, only those of Shushan should have suffered. 
Why did those of all provinces? They said to him: Let the 
Master explain. So he answered: Because they kneeled to the 
image. Said the disciples to him: If so, they were guilty, and 
why were they not killed? And he answered: They bowed to 
the image not because they wanted, but only for appearance; 
so the decree against them was also for appearance not carried 
out. And this is what is written [Lam. iii. 33]: ‘‘ He doth not 
afflict of his own will.’’ 

‘“<In the court of the garden of the king’s palace.’’ Rabh and 
Samuel—one says every one was placed in the place he fitted: 
‘the court, garden, and king’s palace; and one says he first tried 
to place them in the court, and it could not contain them; he 
then placed them in the garden, and it also could not contain 
them, until he placed them in the king’s palace. A Boraitha, 
however, states that he placed them in the court from which two 
doors opened, one into the garden and another into the palace. 

** And the royal wine was in abundance’’ [Esther, i. 7]. 
Said Rabh: We infer from this that he gave to each to drink 
wine that was older than he. 

““ And the drinking was according to the order” [ibid. 8]. 
What is meant by “‘ according to the order’? R. Hanan said 





TRACT MEGILLA. 29 


in the name of R. Meir: It was according to the order of our 
Torah. As in our Law eating precedes drinking, so he gave 
more to eat than to drink. 

‘‘ Without compulsion.’’ Says R. Elazar: From this it can 
be learned that to each was given to drink wine that grew in his 
country. 

““ On the seventh day, when the heart of the king was merry 
with wine.’’ And till then, what did he do? Was he not till then 
merry with wine? Said Rabha: The seventh day was Sabbath. 
When Israelites eat and drink on Sabbath, they begin with say- 
ings of the Law and praises to God; but the nations, when they 
feast, speak about women. These said the Medians are beau- 
tiful, and those said the Persian women are more fair. And 
Ahasuerus said to them: The one that I have is neither Median 
nor Persian, but Chaldean, and she is fairer than they all; and 
if you wish you can see her. They said: Yea, we wish to see 
her, but she must be naked. And the same measure which 
one uses, is used against one: as Vashti used to take Israelite 
maidens, and make them work nude, on Sabbath, so also it was 
decreed that she should be brought nude. And this is what is 
written [Esther, ii. 1]: “‘ After these events, as the king’s fury 
was appeased, he remembered Vashti, and what she had done, 
and what had been decreed concerning her’’; 7.e., the decree 
had been the same as what she had done. ‘“‘ And the king was 
very wroth.’” What was the cause? Said Rabh: She sent to 
him this message: Thou groom of my father, my father used to 
drink wine as a thousand persons, and never had he committed 
such follies when he was drunk as thou.’’ And therefore he 
was so wroth. 

‘* Then said Memuchan.’’ We have learned ina Boraitha: 
Memuchan was Haman. Why was he called Memuchan? Be- 
cause he was destined * for the troubles that befell him afterwards. 
R. Kahana said: From this we see that usually an ignorant 
man comes forward first (as he is mentioned last in verse 14). 

‘¢That every man should bear rule in his own house.’’ Said 
Rabha: But for the first letters, there would have been left no 
remnant of Israel; because the men laughed at such a decree, 
that every man should rule in his own house. For even a tan- 
ner is in his own house a prince, and therefore they did not pay 
so much attention to the second decree in the later letters. 





* Muchan in Hebrew is “ prepared,” ‘‘ designed.” 


30 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


‘* And let the king appoint officers.’’ Said Rabh: It is writ- 
ten [Prov. xiii. 16]: ‘‘ Every prudent man acteth with knowl- 
edge, but a fool spreadeth abroad his folly.’’ ‘‘ Every prudent 
man acteth with knowledge ’’—that was David, as it is written 
[I Kings, i. 2]: ‘‘ Wherefore his servants said unto him, Let 
them seek out for my lord the king a young virgin.’’ Everyone 
who had a daughter, brought her himself to the king. ‘‘ Buta 
fool spreadeth abroad his folly,’’ z.¢., Ahasuerus, who had to 
appoint officers, for whoso had a beautiful daughter hid her 
from him. 

‘* There was a certain Jew in Shushan the capital . . . a Ben- 
jamite.’’ What is meant by “‘ he was a Benjamite’’? If it is 
meant to give his genealogy, let it have been traced to Benja- 
min; otherwise, why were the first three of his ancestors men- 
tioned ? Ina Boraitha it is explained that all the three names 
are not those of his ancestors, but are his own. The son of 
Yair, z.¢., the man who made the eyes of the Jews Zight* with 
his prayer; the son of Shimi, the man whose prayer God heard; * 
the son of Kish, z.e., the man who kuocked on the gates of Mercy, 
and they were opened to him.* Said R. Na’hman: Mordecai was 
crowned with these fair names. It is written, ‘‘a Judean man,”’ 
and then, ‘‘a Benjamite.’’ Which was he? Said Rabba bar 
bar Hana in the name of R. Joshua b. Levi: His father was a 
Benjamite and his mother was a Judean. The sages, how- 
ever, said: The tribes disputed with each other. Judah said: 
Through me Mordecai was born, for if David had killed Shimi 
b. Gera, he could not have been born; and Benjamin said, he 
belongs to me, because he is of my tribe. Rabha says: On the 
contrary, the Kneseth (congregation) of Israel said: See what 
Jehudah did to me, and see what the Benjamites have done to 
me: Judah, because David did not kill Shimi, made possible the 
birth of Mordecai, of whom Haman became jealous; and because 
Saul had not killed Agag was born Haman, who caused troubles 
to Israel. 

R. Johanan said: He was a Benjamite. Why is he called a 
Judean? Because he did not want to worship idols, and every 
Israelite who rejects idols is called a Judean, as it is written 
in Daniel x. 12: ‘‘ There are certain Judean men,’’ etc. ‘‘ Thy 
gods they do not worship.”’ 

R. Simeon b. Pazzi, when he wanted to lecture about Chroni- 





* Our is ‘‘ light,” Shema is ‘‘ hear,” Kish is ‘‘ rap.” 
= 





TRACT MEGILLA. 3r 


cles, began thus: All the names which are mentioned in the 
Chronicles without any explanation, we are nevertheless able 
to explain them. It is written [I Chronicles, iv. 18]: ‘‘ And 
his wife the Judean bore Jered the father of Gedor, and Cheber 
the father of Socho, and Jekuthiel the father of Zanoach. And 
there are the sons of Bithya the daughter of Pharaoh, whom 
Mered had taken (for wife).’’ Why was she called ‘‘ the Ju- 
dean’’? Because she denied idolatry, as it is written [Ex. ii. 
5]: ‘‘ And the daughter of Pharaoh went down to wash herself 
at the river.’ And R. Johanan said: She went to cleanse her- 
self of the idolatries of her father’s house. 

‘* Bore Jered.’’ Did she bear him—she only reared him ? 
From this we may infer that whoso rears an orphan is the same 
as if she bore him. Jered—that is, Moses. Why is he called 
Jered? Because in his day manna descended* from heaven to 


Israel. .‘‘ Gedor,’’* z.e., he fenced up the breaches of Israel. 
““ Cheber,’’ * z.¢., he joined the Israelites to their Heavenly Fa- 
ther. ‘‘ Socho’’ *—he was to Israel as a tabernacle (protection). 


‘* Jekuthiel’’—the Israelites hoped to God in his days.t Zano- 
ach,’’ 2.e., he abandoned + or atoned for the sins of Israel in his 
days. It is written three times ‘‘ Abi’’ (father), z.¢., he was the 
father of Torah, the father of Wisdom, and the father of Proph- 
ets. And these are the sons of Bithya the daughter of Pharaoh, 
whom Meret had taken. Was, then, his name Meret—it is 
known that his name was Kaleb? The Holy One, blessed be 
He, said: ‘* Kaleb, who rebelled + against the advice of the spies, 
shall take the daughter of Pharaoh, who had rebelled against 
the idolatries of her father.’’ 

‘*Who had been carried away into exile from Jerusalem ’”’ 
[ii. 6]. Said Rabha: He had not been exiled, but came by his 
own will. 

‘““ And he had brought up Hadassah.’’ Is she called Hadassah 
and called Esther? We have learned in a Boraitha, R. Meir 
said: Her right name was Esther, but she was called Hadassah, 
because the upright are called thus, as it is written [Zechariah, 
i. 8]: ‘‘ He was standing among the myrtle-trees.’’ + R. Jehu- 
dah said: Her right name was Hadassa. Why was she called 
Esther? Because she concealed+ her words, as it is written [ii. 





* Jarod is ‘‘ to descend” ; Geder, ‘* fence” ; Habor, “‘ join” ; Sukka, a ‘‘ protec- 
tion.” 

+ Jehan, “hopes”; £7, ‘‘God”; Zanoach, ‘‘ abandon”; Marod, ‘‘ rebel”; 
Hadas, ‘‘ myrtles” ; aster, ‘* conceal.” 


32 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


10]: ‘‘ Esther told nothing.’?’ R. Nehemiah said: Her right 
name was Hadassah. Why was she called Esther? Because 
the nations called her for her beauty “‘ star’’ (@ornp). B. Azzai 
said: Esther was not tall or short, but of moderate size, like a 
myrtle. R. Joshua b. Kar’ha said: Esther’s complexion was 
yellow, but she had grace. 

‘‘For she had neither father nor mother. And when her 
father and mother were dead, Mordecai had taken her to him- 
self as a daughter.’’ Why this superfluous repetition? Said 
R. Aha: To tell us that when the mother became pregnant her 
father died, and when she was born the mother died. 

** And the seven maidens who were selected to be given to 
her’”’ [ibid. 9]. Says Rabha: By them she counted the days to 
know when Sabbath was. 

‘““In the evening she went and in the morning she returned ”’ 
[ibid. 14]. Said R. Johanan: Among the blameworthy actions 
of that wicked man, it can be said in his praise that he had inter- 
course with women only by night. 

‘“And Esther found favor’’ [15]. Said R. Elazar: Every 
nation thought her to belong to itself. 

‘* And the king made a great feast’ [ibid. 18]. And Esther 
still did not tell her nation; he lightened the taxes of all nations, 
and she did not tell; he sent presents to his governors, and she 
still did not tell; so he asked the advice of Mordecai how to dis- 
cover it; and he told him that a woman becomes jealous only of 
another woman, and when he will take other women she will tell 
(as a favor to him). But this availed not either, as it is written: 
‘“ And Esther had not yet told of her descent or her people.’’ 

R. Elazar said: It is written [Job, xxxvi. 7]: ‘‘ He with- 
draweth not his eyes from the righteous.’’ In reward of the 
modesty of Rachel, King Saul descended from her; and in re- 
ward of Saul’s modesty Esther descended from him. Wherein 
was Rachel modest? It is written [Gen. xxix. 12]: ‘‘ And 
Jacob told Rachel that he was her father’s brother.’’ Was he 
her father’s brother? He was the son of her father’s sister! 
That means, he asked her: Will you marry me? And she an- 
swered: Yes, but my father is a trickster, and he will deceive 
you. To this he answered: I am his brother in trickery. And 
she asked him: May an upright man do it? And he answered: 
Yea, it is written in II Samuel, xxii. 27: ‘‘ With the pure thou 
wilt show thyself pure, and with the perverse thou wilt wage a 
contest.’’ And he asked Rachel: How can he cheatme? And 





TRACT MEGILLA. 33 


she replied: I have an elder sister, and he will not let me marry 
before her. So he confided to her some signs by which to dis- 
tinguish her, And when Leah was brought in her stead, Rachel 
said: My sister will be put to shame. So she confided to her 
the signs. And this is what is written: ‘‘ And it came to pass 
that in the morning, Behold, it is Leah.’’ That means, till the 
morning he knew it not. And therefore she was rewarded by 
Saul’s being descended from her. 

And what was Saul’s modesty? It is written [II Sam. x. 
16]: ‘‘Of the matter of the kingdom, whereof Samuel had 
spoken, he told him not.’’ For this he was rewarded by 
Esther’s being descended from him. R. Elazar said again: 
When the Holy One, blessed be He, decrees greatness for a 
man, it is for him and-his descendants to the end of ages; as it 
is written [Job, xxxvi. 7]: ‘‘ He doth establish them forever, 
and they are exalted.’’ But if they become proud, he humbles 
them, as it is written [ibid. 8.]: ‘‘ If they be bound in fetters.’’ 

“‘In those days, while Mordecai was sitting in the king’s 
gate, Bigthan and Theresh . . . became wroth’’ [Esther, ii. 
21]. Said R. Hyya bar Abba in the name of R. Johanan: 
The Lord makes the masters wroth against their servants, in 
order to do good to the upright; as it was in the case of 
Joseph, as it is written [Gen. xli. 12]: ‘‘ And there was with us a 
Hebrew lad,’’ etc. And he makes slaves wroth against their 
masters, to perform a miracle for the good of the upright. And 
who is it? Mordecai, as it is written: “‘ And the thing became 
known to Mordecai.’’ R. Johanan said Bigthan and Theresh 
were TJarsees, and spoke their own language, and said among 
themselves: ‘‘ Since Esther has come into the court, we know 
no sleep. Therefore let us put poison into the king’s drink, in 
order that he should die.’’ And they knew not that Mordecai 
was of the Great Sanhedrin, every one of whom knew seventy 
languages. Then Bigthan said to Theresh: Our watches are not 
the same. He answered: I will watch for you too (and say you 
are sick). ‘‘ And the thing was inquired into, and found true.”’ 
What was found? That he had not been at his post. 

‘* After these events’’ [ibid. iii. 1]. What events? Said 
Rabha: After the Holy One, blessed be He, had created a cure 
to their woe. Because Resh Lakish said: The Holy One, 
blessed be He, afflicts not Israel before He has prepared the 
cure for them in advance. As it is written [Hosea, viii.]: 
‘* Should I desire to heal Israel, then would the iniquity of 


34 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Ephraim be laid open.’’ But with idolatrous nations it is differ- 
ent. First He smites them, then He heals them, as it is written 
[Is. xix. 12]: ‘‘ And the Lord will thus strike Egypt, striking 
and healing.’’ 

‘‘ But it appeared too contemptible in his eyes to lay his 
hand on Mordecai alone’’ [6]. Said Rabha: In the beginning 
he wanted to lay hand on Mordecai alone, and later on the peo- 
ple of Mordecai, z.e., the scholars, and later on all the Jews. 
‘Some one cast the Tur, that is the lot’’ [7]. We have 
learned in a Boraitha: When the lots fell on the month of Adar, 
Haman rejoiced very much, for he said: It is the month in 
which Moses died. But he did not know that on the 7th of 
Adar Moses had died, and also had been born. 

‘“ There is one people’”’ [ibid. 8]. Said Rabha: There was 
no man who could calumniate so well as Haman. He said to the 
king: Let them be destroyed. And he answered: I am afraid 
of their God, lest he act toward me as toward others that did 
evil to Israel. Then Haman replied: They no longer observe 
their God’s commandments. Then the king said: But there 
are among them rabbis, who observe them. Then he rejoined: 
They are one people, all are the same, no one observes. And 
if thou shouldst think I shall leave a void in thy kingdom, thou 
must know that they are scattered among all nations, and their 
extermination will not be perceptible. And perhaps thou wilt 
say, thou derivest a benefit from them. Know that they are 
like mules,* that are unproductive. And if thou shouldst imag- 
ine there is one country in which they dwell together, know that 
they are scattered in a// the provinces of thy kingdom. 

‘** And their laws are different from those of every people,”’ 
z.e., they do not eat with us, and do not intermarry with us. 

‘“ They do not execute the laws of the king.’’ The whole 
year they find excuses not to give the taxes, saying: Now is 
Sabbath, now is Passover. 

““Tt is no profit for the king to tolerate them.’’ Because 
they eat and drink in a manner to disgrace the king, for if a fly 
fall into a goblet of wine, they will take it out and drink it; but 
if the king should touch the goblet of wine, they will pour it 
out. 

“If it be pleasing to the king, let it be written to destroy 
them, and ten thousand talents of silver will I weigh out.’’ Said 





* *¢ Separated,” HD ; and “M5 is ‘‘a mule.” 





TRACT MEGILLA. 35 


Resh Lakish: It was known to Him who said one word, and 
the world was created, that in the future Haman would give 
talents of silver to buy Israel. Therefore He had commanded 
that in the same month they should give Shekalim of silver to 
the Lord, as we have learned in a Mishna that on the first day 
of Adar it was heralded that the Shekalim be given. And the 
king said to Haman: The silver is given to thee; that people 
also, to do therewith as it seemeth good in thy eyes. 

Said R. Abba: The parable of Ahasuerus and Haman resem- 
bles what ? Two men, one of whom had a hillock in his field 
and the other a valley (or pit); he who had the valley, when he 
saw the hillock, said: If one would sell it to me, I would buy it 
to fill up the valley. Then it happened they met, and he who 
had the valley said: Sell me the hill. And he answered: Take 
it for nothing, so that you remove it. (So Ahasuerus also had 
wanted to get rid of the Israelites, and when Haman came to 
him he gave them away for nothing.) 

‘“ And the king drew his signet ring from off his hand.’’ 
Said R. Abba bar Kahana: The removal of this ring had a greater 
effect than forty-eight prophets and seven prophetesses, who 
preached that Israel should better its ways; but this made them 
really better. 

The rabbis taught: Forty-eight prophets and seven prophet- 
esses preached to Israel, and subtracted or added nothing, save 
the reading of the Megilla, which was instituted by the prophets 
alone. What basis had they for that? Said R. Hyya bar Ab- 
bin in the name of R. Joshua b. Kar’ha: They drew an a fortiori 
conclusion: if when Israel was delivered from slavery to free- 
dom they sang, so much the more when they were saved from 
death to life. Why, then, do we not say Hallel on Purim? 
Because we do not say Hallel for the miracles that happened 
outside of Palestine. But the exodus from Egypt was also a 
miracle outside of Palestine? This is in accordance with the 
teaching of the following Boraitha: Till Israel entered Canaan, 
they said praises for all miracles, but since they occupied Pales- 
tine they sang praise only for miracles in Palestine. R. Na’h- 
man, however, said: The reading of the Megilla, that is the 
same as Hallel. Rabha said: There, when they went out of 
Egypt, it was right to say Hallel, because it is said : ‘‘ Praise, 
O ye servants of the Lord,’’ and not Pharaoh’s; but now, 
how could they say so on Purim, since they continued to be 
slaves of Ahasuerus ? 


36 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Who were the seven prophetesses? Sarah, Miriam, Debo- 
rah, Hannah, Abigail, Huldah, Esther. 

Sarah, as it is written [Gen. xi. 29]: “‘ The father of Milcah 
and the father of Yiscah.’’ And R. Itz’hak said: By Yiscah is 
meant Sarah. Why was she called Yiscah ? Because that signifies 
seeing, and she was a seer through the Holy Spirit. Miriam, as 
it is written [Ex. xv. 26]: ‘‘ Then took Miriam the prophetess, 
the sister of Aaron.’’ Aaron’s, and not Moses’ sister? Said 
R. Na’hman in the name of Rabh: She had prophesied even 
when she had been yet but Aaron’s sister, before Moses’ birth, 
and she said: In the future my mother will give birth to a child 
that will deliver the Israelites. Finally, when Moses was born, 
the whole house was filled with light. And her father rose, and 
kissed her on her head, and said: Daughter, thy prophecy is ful- 
filled. Afterward, when he was cast into the river, the father 
asked: Daughter, what has become of thy prophecy ? And this 
is what is written [ibid. ii. 4]: ‘‘ And his sister placed herself 
afar off, to ascertain what would be done to him,’’ z.e., to know 
what would be the end of her prophecy. 

Deborah, as it is written [Judges, ix. 4]: ‘‘ And Deborah, a 
prophetess.”’ 

Hannah, as it is written [I Sam. ii. 1]: ‘‘ And Hannah prayed 
and said, My heart is glad in the Lord, my horn is exalted 
through the Lord.’’ My orn is exalted, and not my fiask. 
David and Solomon, who were anointed with the horn, their 
dynasty endured; but Saul and Jehu, who were anointed with a 
flask, their dynasties did not last. 

‘* There is none holy like the Lord, for there is none beside” 
thee’’ [ibid.2]._ The expression for ‘“‘none beside thee”’ is 302. 


Said R. Jehudah b. Menassia: ‘Do not read 302, but snio25, 


because not as a human being is the Holy One, blessed be He: 
a human being is survived by his own work, but God survives 
all His works.* 

‘* There is not any rock like our God,’’ z.e., there is no sculp- 
tor like our God. Do not read “\j¥ (rock), but {°Yy: + a man 
makes a statue, and cannot endow it with a soul; but the Holy 
One, blessed be He, makes an image within an image, and en- 
dows it with a soul and life, entrails, etc. 





* mb3 is ‘‘ to rot, fade, dwindle, wear out.” 
+ Which means ‘‘ painter, sculptor.” 





TRACT MEGILLA. 37 


Abigail, as it is written [I Sam. xxv. 31]: ‘‘ And when the 
Lord will do good unto my lord.’’ She prophesied that he 
would be king. 

Huldah, as it is said [II Kings, xxii. 14]: ‘‘ Huldah the 
prophetess.”’ 

And Esther, because it is written [Esther, v. 7]: “‘ Esther 
put on royalty.’’* It should be written, ‘‘ royal apparel’’ ? 
That means, she clothed herself in the Holy Spirit, and this is 
inferred from an analogy of expression; here it is written, ‘‘ she 
put on,’’ and in I Chron. xii. 18, ‘‘ a spirit invested + Amassoi.’’ 
As there the Holy Spirit is meant, so here. 

Said R. Na’hman: Pride does not become women. Two 
women were proud, and they both had unlovely names: one 
was called Bee (Deborah) and one Cat (Huldah). Of Deborah 
it is written [Judges, iv. 6]: “‘ And she sent and called Barak 
and went not herself’’; and of Huldah it is said [II Kings, xxii. 
15]: ‘‘ Say unto the man that hath sent you to me’’; and she 
did not say, ‘‘ unto the king.”’ 

‘“ And Mordecai ascertained all that had been done’’ [Esther, 
iv. 1]. What had been done? Said Rabh: That Haman had 
persuaded Ahasuerus. 

‘‘ Then called Esther for Hathach’’ [5]. Said Rabh: Ha- 
thach is Daniel. Why was he called Hathach? Because he 
was cut from, or deprived of, his office.{ Samuel says: On the 
contrary, he had the office, but he was called Hathach because 
all laws were decided § by him. 

** And they told Mordecai the words of Esther’’ [12]. But 
he went not himself to her? From this is inferred that an evil 
tiding must not be brought personally. 

‘“And Mordecai went about’’ [17]. Said Rabh: What is 
meant by “‘ went about’’? He transgressed || by fasting on the 
first day of Passover; he fasted three days, and the third was 
Pesach. And Samuel says: It means ‘* be passed.’’ There was 
a piece of water between the court and Shushan, and he crossed it. 

‘* And it came to pass on the third day that Esther put on 
royalty’”’ [iv. 1]. Said R. Elazar in the name of R. Hanina: 
From this we infer that she clothed herself in the Holy Spirit, 
as explained above [66]. 

The same says again: The blessing of a common man shall 





* In Hebrewit isso. +In Hebrew itis the same expression. }{ Hathach, ‘‘ cut.” 
§ Which is in Hebrew expressed by cutting. | Ador has all these meanings. 


38 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


7 


never be held light, because we find that two who were the 
greatest in their generations were blessed by two common men, 
“and the blessings have been fulfilled, and they are David and 
Daniel. David, whom Araunah blessed, as it is written [II Sam- 
uel, xxiv. 23]: “‘ And Araunah said unto the king, may the Lord 
thy God receive thee favorably.’’ And Daniel, whom Darius 
blessed, as it is written [Dan. vi. 17]: ‘‘ May thy God, whom 
thou worshippest, continually, truly deliver thee.’’ The same 
authority says again: Do not hold light the curse of a common 
man. For Abimelech cursed Sarah, saying [Gen. xx. 16]: 
‘‘ This is to thee a covering to the eyes,’’ and it happened to 
her children as is written: ‘‘ And Isaac’s eyes became dim’”’ 
[Gen. xxvii. 1]. The same says again: He who repeats some- 
thing said by another, in that person’s name, brings salvation to 
the world, as it is written: ‘‘ And Esther said it to the queen 
in the name of Mordecai.’’ And thus Israel was saved. He 
says again: When an upright man is lost, he is lost to his gen- 
eration; but not he himself. He is like to a pearl, which may 
be lost to the owner, but is and remains a pearl. 

“Yet all this profiteth me nothing’’ [v. 13]. Said R. 
Elazar in the name of R. Hanina: That was because Mordecai 
once had a zpeofevrai, and Haman had sold himself to him as 
a slave, as said R. Hisda. The same said again: In the future, 
the Holy One, blessed be He, will be Himself a crown on the 
head of every upright man, as it is written [Is. xxviii. 5]: “‘ On 
that day will the Lord of hosts be for a crown of glory anda 
diadem of beauty.”’ What is meant by ‘‘ a crown of glory and 
a diadem of beauty’’? It is to those who do His will, and hope 
for His glory. But shall we assume, to all of them? Therefore 
it is written: ‘‘ Unto the residue of his people.’’ That means, 
to those who are so modest that they consider themselves like 
the remnant of the people. 

‘“ And for a spirit of judgment’’ [ibid. 6]. To those who 
judge their own resolutions. ‘‘ To him that sitteth in judg- 
ment.’’ It is the judge who does justice. ‘‘ And for strength.’”’ 
It is to those who conquer their own desires. ‘‘ To those that 
drive back the battle.’’ That means, the disputing about the 
Law. ‘‘ To the gate.’’ That means, the scholars who come to 

the gate of the houses of prayer and learning in the morning and 
the evening. The Severity of Justice said to the Holy One, 
blessed be He: Creator of the world, what is the difference: 
between the Israelites and other nations? And He answered: 





TRACT MEGILLA: 39 


Israel studied the Torah, and the idolaters did not. To this 
Justice replied [ibid. 7]: ‘‘ But these also are now stumbling 
through wine, and reeling through strong drink.’’ 

‘“* And placed herself in the inner court of the king’s house ’”’ 
[Esther, v. 1]. Said R. Levi, as she came to the house of idols, 
the Shekhina left her; so she began to say [Ps. xxii. 2]: “‘‘ My 
God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?’ Canst thou hold 
guilty one who does a thing unintentionally as if she did it 
intentionally, and what she is forced to do as if she did it vol- 
untarily ?”’ 

‘* And it happened when the king saw Esther the queen”’ 
[2]. Said R. Johanan: Three angels came to her help at the 
same time: one angel raised her head, that the king might see 
her; one, who gave her grace; and one who made longer the 
sceptre which the king stretched out to her. How much did it 
become longer? Says R. Jeremiah: It was two ells long, and 
became twelve ells long. And others say sixteen, and others 
say twenty-four; and in a Boraitha we have learned sixty. Rabba 
bar Uphran said in the name of R. Eliezer, who had heard it 
from his Master, and his Master from zs Master: It became 
longer two hundred ells. 

‘“ Let the king and Haman come this day unto the banquet ’’ 
[v. 5]. The rabbis taught: Why did Esther invite Haman to 
the feast? R. Elazar says: She spread for him a net, as it is 
written [Ps. lxix. 23]: ‘‘ May their table become a snare before 
them.’’ R. Joshua says: She learned it in her father’s house, 
as it is written [Prov. xxv. 21]: ‘* If thy enemy be hungry, give 
him bread.’’ R. Meir said that at the time when Ahasuerus 
would be at the feast, Haman should not get wind of the mat- 
ter, and rebel. R. Jehudah said: She did it that it should not 
be noticed she was a Jewess. R. Nehemiah said: That the 
Israelites say not, We have a sister in the king’s court. There- 
fore we need not pray to God. And R. Jose said: He should 
be near, if she wanted him. R. Simeon b. Menassia said: That 
He above should see that she was so humbled as to be forced to 
flatter her enemy, and should perform a miracle. R. Joshua b. 
Korba said: She meant to make herself agreeable to Haman, 
that the king might become jealous, and should kill both him 
and her, whereby Israel would be saved. R. Gamaliel said: 
Because she knew Ahasuerus was very fickle (and if she told 
him to kill Haman, he might repent; but if he should be in her 
house, it would be executed immediately). Said R. Gamaliel: 


40 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


After all, we must still hear what the Median has said. As we - 
learn in the following Boraitha, R. Elazar of Media said: She 
had intended to make Haman jealous of Ahasuerus, and Ahasue- 
rus jealous of Haman. Rabha said: As it is written [in Prov. 
xvi. 18]: ‘‘ Before downfall goeth pride.’’ Abayi and Rabha — 
both said: She intended to do as is written [in Jeremiah, li. 39]: 
*“ When they are heated I will prepare their drinking feasts and 
will make them drunken.’’ Rabba bar Abahu once found Elijah 
the prophet, and asked him: What did Esther intend to do? 
And he answered: As all the Tanaim and all the Amoraim 
opined. 

‘In that night sleep fled from the king’’ [vi.]. He thought, 
What could be the meaning of Esther’s invitation of Haman ? 
Perhaps they conspired against him to kill him? Then he con- 
sidered that some friend of his would be found to inform him. 
But then he said: Perhaps there are men who have rendered me 
services, and I] have not rewarded them. Therefore people do 
not care to do me a kindness. As soon as this struck him, he 
commanded to bring to him the Chronicles. ‘‘ And they were 
read’’ by themselves; z.e., that place in the Chronicles turned 
up accidentally. 

Said R. Ashi: R. Shila of the village Tamratha lectured: If 
what is recorded about Israelites below is not erased, so much 
the more what is written about them in Heaven above. 

‘“There hath nothing been done with him’’ [3]. Says 
Rabha: They said so, not because they loved Mordecai, but 
because they hated Haman. 

‘“ Do this to Mordecai’’ [10]. And Haman asked: Who is 
Mordecai? And the king answered: The Jew. And he said 
again: There are many Jews by the name of Mordecai. And 
he answered: The one that sits at the gate of the king. He 
said: For this man it will suffice if thou wilt give him a village, - 
or the tolls of a river. And the king said: Give him this too. 
Therefore it is written: ‘‘ Leave out nothing of all that thou 
hast spoken.’’ ‘‘ And Haman then took the apparel and the 
horse’’ [11]. As Mordecai saw that Haman came to him on 
the royal horse, he trembled, and said to the rabbis who sat 
near him: This man probably comes with an order to put me to 
death. Go away from here, that you may not get harmed 
through me. Mordecai wrapped himself, and stood up to pray. 
When Haman entered, he sat down and waited till Mordecai 
ended the prayer. Then Haman asked Mordecai: What was 





TRACT MEGILLA. 41 


your occupation when I entered? He replied: We studied the 
laws of a handful [Lev. vi. 8]. We deliberated what a handful 
should be. Haman answered: Your handful, which you have 
offered to God, has outweighed the ten thousand talents that I 
had proposed to the king, for your destruction. Then said he to 
him: Put on the royal apparel and mount the horse, for the 
king wants you. Mordecai said: I must not put on the royal 
garments before I wash myself. Haman took him himself to 
the bath, and washed him, and cut his hair. Thereafter, he 
bade him mount the horse. He replied: I cannot; I am too 
weak from fasting. So Haman bent himself, and helped him to 
climb the horse, by letting him step on his back. 

‘* And proclaimed before him: Thus shall be done unto the 
man,’’ etc. [11]. Haman’s daughter heard this, and saw from 
a distance a man riding on a horse. She thought her father sat 
on the horse, and Mordecai led him. When they came nearer, 
and she perceived her mistake, she threw herself from the bal- 
cony, anddied. And this is what is written: ‘“ Haman hastened 


to his house, mourning, and having his head covered ’’—mourn- 
ing over his daughter, and his head covered, because of the dis- 
grace. 


‘““And Haman related to Zeres his wife and to all his 
friends’’ [13]. And afterward it is written: ‘‘ Then said unto 
him his wise men and Zeres his wife.’’ First they are called 
friends, and then wise men? Said R. Johanan: A man even of 
the nations who says an intelligent thing may be called wise. 

‘““ If Mordecai be of the seed of the Judeans.’’ They said: 
If Mordecai is descended from other tribes, you will get the 
better of him; but if he be descended from one of these tribes— 
Jehudah, Benjamin, Ephraim, Menasseh, then you cannot over- 
come him. From Jehudah because it is written [Gen. xlix. 8]: 
““ Thy hand shall be on the neck of thy enemies’’; and the 
other three, because it is written [Ps. lxxx. 3]: ‘‘ Before Eph- 
raim, Benjamin, and Menasseh, awaken thy might.”’ 

‘** But thou wilt surely fall before him.’’ R. Jehudah b. Ilai 
lectured: What is meant by “‘ surely fall’’ ? His wise men and 
wife said to him thus: This nation [Israel] resembles earth, and 
resembles stars; when they sink they sink to the dust, and when 
they rise they rise to the stars. 

“When the king’s chamberlains arrived’’ [Esther, vi. 14]; 
‘“and they hastened.’’ From this we infer that they brought 
him in a hurry. 


42 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


‘For we have been sold, I and my people... for the 
adversary regardeth not the damage of the king.’’ She said 
to him: This enemy is not worth the damage he causes to the 
king: when he became jealous of Vashti, he killed her; and 
now he becomes jealous of me, and wants to kill me too. 

‘‘ And the king arose in his fury . . . and when the king . 
returned’’ [vii. 7, 8]. From this we may infer that as he had 
gone out in fury, so he returned in fury. ‘‘ Haman was fallen 
upon the couch.’’ It is not written ‘‘ fell,’’ but ‘‘ was fallen,”’ 
from which we may infer that an angel came and pushed him. 
And the king said: Woe inside, and woe outside! 

‘“Then said Harbanah’’ [9]. Said R. Elazar: Harbanah 
the wicked had been among those who had given the advice to 
make a gallows for Mordecai; but as he saw his plan not ful- 
filled, he deserted Haman and went over to Mordecai’s friends, 
and this is written [Job, xxvii. 22]: “‘ And will cast upon him, 
and have no pity; out .of his hand will surely escape.”’ 

‘“ And the fury of the king was appeased’’ [xii. 10]. The 
expression is DW, which is plural. (What signifies the 
plural? His anger about Vashti and about Esther was ap- 
peased.) 

It is written [Gen. xlv. 22]: ‘‘ To all of them he gave to 
each changes of raiment; but to Benjamin he gave. . . five 
changes of raiment.’’ Is it possible that what gave trouble to 
Joseph’s father, as Rabba bar Me’hassia said in the name of 
Rabh (Sabbath, p. 19), Ze (Joseph), the righteous man, should do? 
Said R. Benjamin b. Jepheth: That was a hint that from him 
would descend a man who would wear five royal garments, as it 
is written [ Esther, viii. 15]: ‘‘ And Mordecai went out in a royal 
apparel of blue and white, and with a great crown of gold, and 
with a cloak of fine linen and purple.”’ 

““ And he fell upon his brother Benjamin’s neck* . . .’’ [Gen. 4 
xlv. 14]. How many necks had he—he had only one? He 
wept for the two Temples, that would be situated in Benjamin’s 
land, and would be destroyed. ‘‘ And Benjamin wept upon his 
neck.’’ He wept for the Tabernacle of Shiloh, that would be 
in Joseph’s part of the land, and would be destroyed. ‘‘ And 
behold, your own eyes see, and the eyes of my brother Benja- 
min’’ [Gen. xlv. 12].. Said R. Elazar: Joseph said to them: 
Just as I have nothing in my heart against Benjamin, who took 





* In the Hebrew text the plural is used. 





TRACT MEGILLA. 43 


no part in my sale, so I have nothing against you. ‘‘It is 
my mouth that speaketh unto you.’’ What I speak with my 
mouth, I think in my heart. ‘‘ And to his father he sent after 
this manner [ibid. 23] . . . with the best things of Egypt.”’ 
What is meant by the best things of Egypt? Said R. Benja- 
min b. Jepheth in the name of R. Elazar: He sent him old 
wine, which when old men drink they have their minds invig- 
orated. ‘‘ And Israel bowed himself upon the head of the bed ’”’ 
[xxxvii. 31]. The same authority said: When the fox is at the 
head, the people bow to him. ‘‘ And he comforted them, and 
spoke kindly unto them ”’ [1]. 21]. Said the same authority again: 
He told them such things as are agreeable to be heard; namely, 
ten lights could not extinguish one, much less could one light 
put out ten. ‘ 

‘‘ For the Jews there was light, and joy and gladness and 
honor ’’ [Esther, viii. 16]. Said R. Jehudah: By light is meant 
the Law, as it is written [Prov. vi. 23]: ‘‘ For the command- 


ment is a lamp, and the law is light.’’ ‘‘ Joy,’’ that is, a holi- 
day, as it is written [Deut. xvi. 14]: ‘‘ And thou shalt rejoice 
on thy feast.’’ ‘‘ Gladness’’ means circumcision, as it is writ- 


ten [Ps. cxix. 162]: “‘I am rejoiced over thy promise.’’ And 
by ‘“‘honor’’ is meant Thephilin, as it is written [Deut. xxviii. 
16]: ‘‘ And all the nations of the earth shall see that thou art 
called by the name of the Lord, and they shall be afraid of 
thee.’’ And we have learned in a Boraitha, R. Eliezer the 
Great said: By this are meant the Thephilin on the head. 

‘* And Parshandatha’’ [Esther, ix. 7]. R. Adda, from the 
city of Jopha, said: The names of the sons of Haman and the 
phrase ‘‘ and the ten’’ must be pronounced in one breath. 
Why? Because their souls left their bodies all at the same 
time. Said R. Johanan: The Vav of Vayzatha must be made 
longer, that it look like a gallows, for all ten were hanged on 
one gallows-tree. 

‘* Words of peace and truth’’ [30]. Said R. Tanhum, and 
according to others R. Ashi: We may infer from this that it 
should be written like the Law of Truth; as that must be writ- 
ten on ruled parchment, so this. 

‘“And the order of Esther confirmed’’ [32]. Said R. Jo- 
hanan: Read together the former verse and this: ‘‘ The matters 
of the fastings, the prayers, and the order of Esther confirmed.”’ 

“For Mordecai the Jew was the second in rank after King 
Ahasuerus, and great among the Jews, and acceptable to the 





44 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


multitude of his brethren’’ [x. 3]. To the multitude, but not | 
to all? From this we may infer that a part of the Sanhedrin 
turned away from him. 

R. Joseph said: The study of the Law is greater than the 
saving of lives, for before Mordecai was mentioned the fifth, 
and later the sixth. It is written [Ezra, ii. 2]: ‘‘ Who came 
with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Serayah, Realayah, Mor- 
decai, Balshan;’’ and later, [in Nehemiah, vii. 7] he is mentioned 
the sixth. (Rashi explains this thus: From the return of Ezra 
to the return of Nehemiah twenty years elapsed, and meanwhile 
Mordecai became of high rank, but before he had been more of 
a scholar.) 

Rabh, and according to others R. Samuel b. Martha, said: 
The study of the Law is of more importance than the building 
of the Temple; for so long as Barach b. Neriah lived, Ezra re- 
turned not to the land of Israel. Said Rabha in the name of 
R. Itz’hak b. Samuel the son of Martha: The study of the Law 
is more important than the honoring of the parents; for in all 
the years that Jacob passed with Shem and Eber and studied 
the Law, he was not chastised for failing during that time to 
honor his father and his mother.* | 





* The Gemara proceeds to prove this by certain calculations of the ages of Ishmael, 
Itz’hak, and Jacob, deduced from scriptural passages ; the proof being very flimsy and 
complicated, we have omitted it. 


CHAPTER II. 


CONCERNING THE READING OF THE MEGILLA—BY WHOM, WHERE, 
AND IN WHAT: LANGUAGES, 


MISHNA: Anyone who reads the Megilla in an irregular 
manner does not fulfil his duty; nor if he reads it by heart, or 
translated in any language which he does not understand. It 
is lawful, however, to read to those that know no Hebrew in a 
foreign language which they understand; if they have heard it 
in (the original language with) Assyrian characters, they have 
also done their duty (though they have not understood the 
Hebrew). Should anyone read it so as to make long pauses 
between the parts and slumber meanwhile, he will have fulfilled 
his duty. If anyone should read the Megilla while writing, 
expounding, or correcting it, with the intention of fulfilling his 
duty, it is fulfilled; but not, if he had no such intention. If the 
Megilla was written with paint, ruddle, gum, vitriol black, on 
papyrus, or on rough vellum, the duty is not fulfilled, but it must 
be written in Assyrian characters, in a book, on good parchment, 
and with ink. 

GEMARA: Whence do we deduce this? Said Rabha: It 
is written [Esther, ix. 28]: “‘ And these days are remembered 
and celebrated.’’ The remembering is compared to the cele- 
brating, as the celebration cannot be earlier, because the 15th 
day cannot precede the 14th; so in remembering, the second 
chapter cannot be read before the first. We have learned in a 
Tosephtha that the same is the case with the Hallel Prayer, 
and the saying of Shema. And whence is this deduced? Said 
Rabba: Because it is written [Ps. cxiii. 3]: ‘‘ From the rising of 
the sun unto his going down, the name of the Lord is praised ”’ 
(as the sun does not go backward, so the praises of the Lord). 
R. Joseph said: From the following passage [Ps. cxviii. 24]: 
‘* This is the day which the Lord has made’”’ (as the day pro- 
gresses without irregularity, so is to be the prayer). R. Ivia 
says: From the following passage [ibid. cxiii. 2]: “‘Zet the name 
-of the Lord be blessed ’’ (/e¢ it be as itis) And R. Na’hman 
10 45 


46 ' THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


bar Itzhak, and according to others R. A’ha bar Jacob, says: 
From [ibid. 2]: ‘‘ From this time forth and for evermore’’ (as 
time progresses regularly, so should the prayer be). 

The rabbis taught: Whence do we deduce that we should 
mention the Patriarchs in the prayer? Because it is written 
[Ps. xxix. 1]: ‘‘ Ascribe unto the Lord, ye sons of the mighty "’ 
(by mighty are meant the Patriarchs). And whence do we de- 
duce that we should mention in the prayer the power of God? 
Because it is written [ibid.]: ‘“‘ Ascribe unto the Lord glory and 
strength.’ And whence do we deduce that His Holiness must 
be mentioned ? Because it is written [ibid. 2]: ‘“ Ascribe unto 
the Lord the glory of his name; bow down to the Lord in 
the beauty of Aoliness.’’ And from what did they see that we 
should pray for Wisdom after Holiness is mentioned? Because 
it is written [Is. xxix. 23]: ‘‘ Then will they sanctify the Holy 
One of Jacob, and the God of Israel will they reverence’’; and 
in the succeeding verse: ‘“‘ They also that were erring in spirit 
shall acquire understanding.’’ And why do we mention Repent- 
ance after Wisdom? Because it is written [Is. vi. 10]: “‘ Lest 
his heart understand, and he will repent, and be healed.’’ If 
so, we ought to mention Healing after Repentance? It would 
not be proper, because it is written [ibid. lv. 7]: ‘‘ And let him 
return unto the Lord, and he will have mercy upon him; and 
unto our God, for he will abundantly pardon.’’ Pardon is there- 
fore prayed for after Repentance. But why is preference given 
to this verse over that verse? There is another passage [Ps. 
ciii. 3]: ‘‘ Who forgiveth all thy iniquities, who healeth all thy 
diseases. Who redeemeth from the pit thy life.’’ Shall we 
assume that Redemption and Healing come after Forgiveness— 
in the verse above quoted it is written, ‘‘ he will repent and be 
healed’’ ? Not healing from disease is meant, but the forgive- 
ness is a healing. And why did they mention Redemption in 
the seventh Benediction? Said Rabha: Because it is known 
they will be redeemed in the seventh year (in Sanhedrin it is 
said that in the last of the seven years before Messiah they will 
be redeemed). And why do they pray for Healing in the eighth 
Benediction ? Said R. A’ha, because circumcision takes place on 
the eighth day, and requires a healing. And why do they pray 
for the Blessing of the Year in the ninth Benediction? Said R. 
Alexandri: That is for those who raise the prices, as it is written 
[Ps. x. 15]: ‘‘ Break thou the arm of the wicked and of the bad 
man.’’ And this the ninth psalm. (This whole psalm, Rashi 





TRACT MEGILLA, 47 


explains, speaks only of people buying up grain to raise its price, 
and he infers it from the.verse: ‘‘ He lieth in wait to snatch up 
the poor; he snatcheth up the poor as he draweth him into his 
net.’’ And why is it considered the ninth psalm? Because 
they consider the first two psalms as one.) And why do we pray 
for Return from the Exile after the Benediction of the Year? 
Because it is written [Ezek. xxxvi. 8]: ‘‘ But ye, O mountains 
of Israel, ye shall send forth your boughs, and your fruit shall ye 
bear for my people Israel; for they are near at hand to come.”’ 
And as soon as there will be a Return from Exile, there will be 
the Punishment of the Wicked, as is written [Is. i. 25]: ‘‘ I will 
turn my hand against thee, and purge away as with lye thy 
dross.’’ And further [26]: ‘‘ I will restore thy judges as at the 
first, and thy counsellors as at the beginning.’’ After the Judg- 
ment of the Wicked there shall be no sinners, as is written [28]: 
** But destruction shall come over transgressors and sinners to- 
gether.’’ And those that forsake the Lord shall perish, and 
when sinners cease to exist, the horn of the righteous is exalted; 
as it is written [Ps. lxxv. 11]: “‘ And all the horns of the wicked 
will I hew off, but the horns of the righteous shall be exalted.’”’ 
And righteous proselytes are included among them, as it is writ- 
ten [Lev. xix. 32]: ‘‘ Before the hoary head shalt thou rise up, 
and honor the old man.’’ And soon after: ‘‘ If a stranger so- 
journ with thee, ye shall not vex him.’’ And where will be 
exalted their horn? In Jerusalem. As it is written [Ps. cxxii. 
6]: ‘‘ Pray ye for the peace of Jerusalem: may those that love 
ye prosper.’’ When Jerusalem will be rebuilt, David will come, 
as it is written [ Hosea, iii. 5]: “‘ After that will the children of 
Israel return and seek for the Lord their God and David their 
king.’’ And with David will come Prayer, as it is written 
[Isaiah, lvi. 7]: ‘“ Even these will I bring to my holy moun- 
tain, and make them joyful in my house of prayer.’’ And with 
Prayer comes Service in the Temple, as it is written further: 
‘‘ Their burnt-offerings and their sacrifices shall be accepted 
upon my altar.’’ And after service comes a thanksgiving offer- 
ing, as it is written [Ps. l. 23]: “‘ Whoso offereth thanksgiving 
glorifieth me.’’ (The order of the separate parts of the Eigh- 
teen Benedictions has already been laid down.) And why do 
they say the Blessing of the Priests after Thanksgiving ? Because 
it is written [Lev. ix. 22]: ‘‘ And Aaron lifted up his hands 
toward the people, and blessed them, and came down after he 
had offered the sin-offering and burnt-offering and peace-offer- 


48 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


ing.’’ And perhaps he blessed them Jdefore the service? Nay, 
we do not suppose so; for it is written, “‘ he came down after 
he had offered ’’’—not “‘ to offer,’’ but after offering. If so, let 
it be said before the Thanksgiving? It would not be proper, 
because it is written: ‘‘ Whoso offereth the thanksgiving glori- 
fieth me.’’ And why is this verse preferred to that ? Because 
common sense tells that Service and Thanksgiving are the same 
thing. And why do we pray for Peace after the Blessing of 
Priests? Because it is written [Num. vi. 27]: ‘‘ And they shall 
put my name upon the children of Israel, and I will bless them.”’ 
And the blessing of the Holy One, blessed be He, is Peace, as it 
is written [Ps. xxix. 11]: ‘‘ The Lord will bless his people with 
peace.”’ 

(Let us see:) If one hundred and twenty elders, and among 
them many prophets, have arranged the Eighteen Benedictions, 
why have we learned in another place that Simeon of Peculi had 
ordered them? They had been forgotten, so he reintroduced 
the order. 

After these Eighteen Benedictions, it is not permitted to bless 
the name of the Lord more, as R. Elazar said: It is written 
[Ps. cvi. 2]: ‘‘ Who can utter the mighty acts of the Lord? 
Who can publish all his praise ?’’ z.e., who is fit to utter? He 
who can publish @// his praise (and as no one can do it, only the 
prayers that have been ordained should be said). 

Rabba bar bar Hana said in the name of R. Johanan: He 
who speaks too much in praise of God is uprooted from the 
world, as it is written [Job, xxxvii. 20]: ‘‘ Can all be related of 
him when I speak? Orif a man talk even till he be swallowed 
up?’’ R. Jehudah of the village Geboriah, according to others 
of Gibor-Hail, lectured: It is written [Ps. lxv. 2]: “‘ For thee 
praise is silent.’’* Silence is the cure to everything: when R. 
Dima came from Palestine, he said that in the West they say: 
‘‘ A word is worth a sela, and silence two.’’ 

“* Tf he reads wt by heart.’’ Whence is this deduced? Said 
Rabha: There is an analogy of expression in the word ‘‘ memo- 
rial.’’ Here it is written [Esther, ix. 28]: ‘‘ These days are 
remembered’’; and there [Ex. xvii. 14]: ‘‘ Write this for a 
memorial in a book.’’ As there it is written ‘‘in a book’’ so 
here it should be read out of a book. How is it known that 
loud reading is meant—perhaps only looking through the book ? 





* So the Talmud translates 7°)". 





TRACT MEGILLA. 49 


It would not be reasonable; as a Boraitha states: It is written 
[Deut. xxv. 17]: ‘‘ Remember’’; and it cannot mean “in thy 
heart,’’ because it is written again [ibid. 19]: ‘‘ Thou shalt not 
forget.’” That means, certainly, in thy heart. Consequently 
‘“ remember ’’ must mean orally. 

‘* Or translated,’’ etc., t.e., when both the language and the 
characters are foreign. 

‘* To those who know no Hebrew,’ etc. But it is just stated 
that by hearing it read in a foreign language one has not fulfilled 
his duty. Rabbiand Samuel both said: By this Greek is meant. 
How is the case? If it was written in Assyrian (characters), and 
one read it in Greek, then he reads it by heart? Said R. A’ba 
in the name of R. Elazar: That means, when it is written in 
Greek, and he reads it in Greek. 

The same authority says again: How is it known that God 
called Jacob “‘ El’’ (one of the names of God)? Because it is 
written [Gen. xxx. 20]: ‘‘ And called it El, the God of Israel,”’ 
which he interprets, ‘‘ who called him El, the God of Israel.’’ 
For if the altar was meant, the verse would say, ‘‘ and Jacob 
called z¢.’’ An objection was raised: If one read the Megilla 
in Coptic, in Old Hebrew, Elamic, Median, or Greek, one has 
not fulfilled his duty ? What is said above, that Greek is law- 
ful, is like another Boraitha which says that if one has read in 
Coptic to Coptic, Hebrew to Hebrews, Elamic to Elamite, or 
Greek to Greek Israelites, they have done their duty. If so, 
why do Rabh and Samuel say the Mishna means only Greek: let 
them say it means all foreign languages may be read to those 
who understand them? Rabh and Samuel mean that even to 
those who do not comprehend it, it may be read in Greek. But 
in the Boraitha it is said, that only if Greek is read to Greek 
Israelites it is lawful? Rabh and Samuel are in accordance with 
Rabban Simeon Gamaliel, who says that even the Pentateuch was 
allowed to be written only in Greek, not in another tongue. If 
so, let them say, more briefly, the Halakha prevails according to 
R. Simeon b. Gamaliel? If they said so, we would think it bears 
reference only to other books; but as of the Megilla it is writ- 
ten, ‘‘ according to its writing,’’ we would think only in Assyrian 
characters it is allowed, and not Greek, therefore they come to 
teach us that even here Greek is proper. 

** One who has it read to him from Assyrian characters.’’ 
But he does not comprehend it? What is the use? It is like 
the case of women and common people, who do not understand 


50 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


it either, yet they are fulfilling their duty. Rabbina opposed: 
Why do you compare him to women and common people, and 
we ourselves, do we understand what is meant by DJS AWANT 
DDD 3D [viii. 10]? But as it does not matter, provided 
we understand the proclamation of the miracle, so it also mat- 
ters not in their case. 

‘* Long pauses,’’ etc. (The term used in the Mishna is ‘‘Seru- 
gin.’’) The rabbis did not understand the expression of the 
Mishna, Parnro, until they heard that the servant-maid of 


Rabbi, when she saw that the rabbis came to Rabbi’s house in 
small detached parties, at intervals, said to them : Why do you 
come—Serugin, Serugin?* The rabbis taught: If one made 
pauses in his reading, he has fulfilled his duty; but if he read it 
irregularly, he has not; R. Muna says in the name of R. Jehu- 
dah: Even when one has made pauses he has done his duty, 
provided they were not long enough for the reading of the whole 
Megilla, but otherwise he must begin again from the beginning. 
Said R. Bibbi: Rabh said that the Halakha does not prevail 
according to R. Muna, and Samuel says that it does. Said R. 
Joseph: Hold in thy mind what R. Bibbi has said, for Samuel 
decides more vigorously. When a single authority holds vigor- 
ously, even when the majority differ from him (and it is an old 
rule, that where Samuel and Rabh disagree the Halakha prevails 
according to Rabh, when the laws are not about pecuniary 
matters). 

The rabbis taught: When the scribe who had written the 
Megilla had omitted letters or sentences, but the reader read it 
like an interpreter, and supplied what was missing, the duty was 
done. 

The rabbis taught: If the reader has omitted one verse, he 
should not say: When I shall have read the entire Megilla I 
shall then.read the omitted verse; but he should commence with 
that verse, and read further. The same is it when one comes to 
the house of prayer, and finds the first half of it gone through by 
the congregation, he should not say: “I will read with the con- 
gregation to the end, and then read the first half’’; but he should 
begin to read from the beginning, and read to the end. 

“And slumber.” What is meant by slumbering? It means 
not sleeping, but being drowsy, so that when he is called, he an- 





* See Rosh-Hashana for other cases where the rabbis did not understand till 
they heard the explanation by Rabbi’s maid. 














TRACT MEGILLA. 51 


swers; but to answer intelligently he is not able before he is 
called a second time. 

“Tf anyone should read whilst writing,” etc. How was the 
case? If he had arranged the verses beforehand, and first read, 
then copied them, even if he had the intention, what is it? It is 
reading by heart. Shall we say, if he was writing verse by verse 
and reading them, he has not fulfilled his duty either, because by 
R. Helba in the name of R. Hama bar Guria, quoting Rabh, said : 
The Halakha prevails according to him who said that legally the 
whole Megilla must be written and be before him? This is 
meant: An entire Megilla lay before him, and he read each verse, 
and copied it. 

Rabba bar bar Hana said in the name of R. Johanan: Even one 
letter must not be written, unless copied from a Megilla. An 
objection was raised: R. Simeon b. Elazar said: It happened to 
R. Meir, that he went to make the year intercalary in Asia, and 
there was not any Megilla; so he wrote it down from memory, and 
then read it to the community. Said R. Abahu: With R. Meir 
it is different: Of R. Meir was said the 25th verse of chap. iv. of 
Proverbs: “‘ Thy eyelids see straight out before thee” (he saw the 
Megilla in his mind as clearly as with his eyes). Ramai bar Hama 
asked R. Jeremiah of Diphthi: What is meant by this? He an- 
swered him: The words of the Law, of which it is said [Prov. xxiii. 
5|: “ When thou lettest merely thy eyes fly over it, it is no more.” 
But in the case of R. Meir it was as if he saw it with his eyes, so 
was it engraved in his memory. 

R. Hisda found R. Hananal writing Scripture, not from a 
copy, and he said to him: It is true, thou art fit to write the 
entire Bible from memory; but the sages have said, nevertheless, 
that it is unlawful to write even one letter thus. From what we 
hear that he was fit for writing it all by heart, and we see that 
he knew it also by heart, yet he was not allowed to do so (how 
then could R. Meir do it?). In the time of necessity, when 
there was no other Megilla, it was different. 

‘Tf the Megilla was written with . . . vitriol black.” 
Said Rabba bar bar Hana: This means that which is used by 
shoemakers for blackening new shoes. 

“ Rough vellum,’ when the hide has been already salted, but 
not polished. 

“ But it must be written in Assyrian characters.’ Why? Be- 
cause it is said, “ according to their writing.” 

“In a book and with ink.” Whence do we deduce this? 


+ soe THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


From an analogy of expression. It is written [Esther, ix. 29]: 
“Then wrote Esther”; and [Jer. xxxvi. 18]: “Then said Baruch 
unto them, With his mouth did he utter clearly all these words 
unto me, and I wrote them in the book with ink.” 

MISHNA: If an inhabitant of an open town had gone to an 
anciently walled town, or vice versa, if he intends to return to 
his place, he shall read it at the same time they read in his place; 
if not, he may read with the inhabitants of the place in which he 
is. From where is it necessary to commence the reading of the 
Megilla, so as to fulfil.one’s duty? R. Meir says: It is obliga- 
tory to read the whole. R. Jehudah says: It suffices if he com- 
mence at “a Jewish man” [Esther, ii. 5]. R. Jose says: Even if 
from “after these events’’ [ibid. iii. 1]. 

GEMARA: Said Rabha: “If he intends to return.” That 
means, to return on the night of the 14th; but if he does not 
purpose to return on that night, he may read with the inhabi- 
tants of the place where he is. And he said again: Whence do 
I deduce this? Because it is written [Esther, ix. 19]: “There- 
fore do the Jews of the open towns, that dwell in open towns.” 
Let us see. It is stated already, “‘ The Jews of the open towns.” 
Why is it repeated, “that dwell in open towns”? He comes to 
teach us, that if one dwells even one day there, he is considered 
as an inhabitant of an open town. This is right about open 
towns, but how do we know that the same applies to walled 
towns? That is common sense: If one who dwells a day in an 
open town is considered an inhabitant thereof, the same must be 
in the case of a walled town. 

And Rabha says again: If a countryman has gone into a 
town, he must read with the inhabitants, for why was he per- 
mitted to read on the Assembly-day? That he should not trouble 
himself to come to the town; but if he is there, he must read in 
any case, whether he intends to stay there or not. 

“From where ts tt necessary to commence,’ etc. We have 
learned in a Boraitha: R.Simeon b. Jechayi said: He may be- 
gin from, “in that night ” [chap. vi. 1]. 

Said R. Johanan: All these different opinions have been 
deduced from the following verse: It is written [ix. 29]: “ Then 
wrote Esther the queen, . . . with Mordecai the Jew, with 
all due strength.” Those who say the entire Megilla should be 
read, mean the whole might (strength) of Ahasuerus; he who says 


it should be begun from “a Jewish man,” means the whole power 


of Mordecai; and he who says from “ after these events,” thinks 


i Re ey 








TRACT MEGILLA. 53 


the power of Haman; and he who says from “in that night,” 
means the whole power of the miracle should be related. Said 
R. Helba in the name of R. Hama bar Guria, quoting Rabh: The 
Halakha prevails according to him who says: The whole Megilla 
must be read. And even he who says from “a Jewish man” also 
means it should be wrztten wholly, if not read. The same says 
again: The Megilla is called “a book,” also “a letter.” That 
means, it is called a book because if it is stitched together with 
threads of flax it is invalid, as the Holy Scrolls are; and it is 
called a letter because if only three veins are used it is yet valid 
(unlike the Holy Scrolls). Said R. Na’hman: This is when every 
vein is triple (triply stitched). : 

R. Jehudah said in the name of Samuel: If one has read the 
Megilla from the Bible, in which it is among other books, he has 
not fulfilled his duty, as the Megilla should be separated. Said 
Rabha: This is when the scroll of the Megilla was like the other 
scrolls; but if it was a little longer or shorter and distinguishable 
from them, it does not matter. 

R. Hyya bar Abba said in the name of R. Johanan: If one 
reads the Megilla bound with other books, he has not done his 
duty. Those who heard him repudiated him, saying: This is 
only the case when it is read in public; but an individual may 
do so. The same says again in the name of the same authority : 
The law that, when the Holy Scrolls are stitched together, mar- 
gins must be left at the top and at the bottom is a Halakha from 
Moses on Sinai. And those who heard him repudiated him,* 
saying: It is not a Halakha from Moses on Sinai, but it has been 
ordered only that the parchment may not be torn. The same 
says again in the name of the same authority: If in the case 
where Moses and Elijah were, there had been a chink as narrow 
as a needle, they would not have_remained alive when the Lord 
passed, as it is written [Ex. xxxiii. 20]: ‘“‘ For no man can see me 
and live.” The same says again in the name of the same author- 
ity: It is written [Deut. ix. 10]: “And on them was written ac- 
cording to all the words which the Lord had spoken with you 
on the mount.” We infer from this that God revealed to Moses 





* Rashi explained this, that not others objected, but he himself retracted his as- . 
sertion. But this seems to us incorrect: firstly, as the word ‘‘ repudiated,” in the 
original, is in the plural ; and secondly, when R. Hyya bar Abba said in R. Johan- 
an’s name he no longer lived, how could he contradict himself at that time? There- 
fore we translate it as it seems to us right. See our ‘‘ Ursprung und Entwickelung 
des Philacterien-Ritus beiden Tuden,” p. 140, where this passage is explained. 


54 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


all the particulars of the Bible (z.e., what words signify that some- 
thing is to be included or to be excluded), and of the particulars 
the Gemara deduces from the Mishna, and what the scribes will 
discover later. And what is it? The reading of the Megilla. 

MISHNA: All are qualified to read the Megilla, except a 
deaf person, fool, ora minor. R. Jehudah, however, allows it to 
be read by a minor. 

GEMARA: Who is the Tana that holds that even when a 
deaf man has already read it the duty is not fulfilled? Said R. 
Mathna: The Tana is R. Jose of the following Mishna in 
Berachoth: ‘He who read Shema, and did not himself hear 
what he read, he has done his duty. R. Jose, however, said, he 
has not.” How do we know that our Mishna is in accordance 
with R. Jose, who says that even if he has done it already, he has 
not fulfilled his duty. Perhaps it isin accordance with R. Jehudah, 
who says that he must not commence; but if he has done it 
already, he has done his duty? It would not be reasonable; be- 
cause the deaf person is mentioned together with the fool and 
the minor,and as when the last two have done it the duty has 
not been fulfilled, so it must be with the deaf. 

“R. Jehudah allows a minor.’ We have learned in a Bo- 
raitha: R. Jehudah said: When I was a minor I read the Megilla 
in the presence of R. Tarphon and the elders in the city of Lud. 
The sages answered: One adduces no proof from a minor. We 
have learned in another Boraitha: Rabbi said: When I wasa minor 
I read the Megilla inthe presence of R. Jehudah. The sages said 
to him: One cannot adduce a proof from a man who permitted 
it (because the majority differed from him). Why have they not 
answered here also. One brings no proof froma minor? They 
meant it ; firstly, he was a minor, but even if he were not, they 
would not recognize it as a proof, because R. Jehudah was an 
individual exception. 

MISHNA: The following religious acts may not be done 
before sunrise on the day on which they are obligatory: To read 
the Megilla, to circumcise, to bathe (on the seventh day of the 
purification of an unclean or defiled person), to sprinkle (the un- 
clean as a purification); nor may a woman (who had experienced 
her menses beyond the usual time, and who was to) wait a day 
(before she might bathe) do so before the sunrise of that day. 
But if any of these acts has beendone at any period after day- 
break, it is\valid. 

GEMARA: Whence do we deduce this? It is written 


TRACT MEGILLA. 55 


[Esther, ix. 28]: “And these days are remembered and cele- 
brated.” The days, and not the nights. Shall we assume that 
this is in contradiction to R. Joshua b. Levi, who said above 
(p. 7.) that one must read the Megilla in the evening, and repeat 
it on the day? What this Mishna teaches, that before sunrise 
the Megilla must not be read, refers to the second time, z.¢., the 
reading by day. : 

“ To circumcise.” Because it is written [Lev. xii. 3]: “On 
the eighth day shall the flesh of his foreskin be circumcised.” 

“ To bathe, to sprinkle.” Because it is written [Num. xix. 19]: 
“ And the clean person shall sprinkle upon the unclean 
on the seventh day”; and bathing is equal to sprinkling. 

“After daybreak.’ Whence is this deduced? Said Rabha: 
Because it is written [Gen. i. 5]: “And God called the light 
day’; and the beginning of the light is called day. If so, then, 
as it is written, “and the darkness he called night,” let the time 
when it begins to be dark be called “ night”; and we have a tra- 
dition that until the stars appear it is not reckoned to be night. ~ 
Therefore, says R. Zera, infer it from the following passage [Ne- 
hemiah, iv. 15]: ‘So we labored at the work, while the half of 
them were holding the spears from the rising of the morning 
dawn till the stars appeared. 

MISHNA: The following religious acts may be done during 
the whole of the day (on which they are obligatory): The reading 
of the Megilla, of the Hallel; the sounding of the cornet; the 
handling of the Lulab; the prayer at the additional offering; the 
additional offering; the confession of sin on sacrificing the bulls, 
the confession to be made on bringing the second tithe, the con- 
fession of sin by the high-priest on the Day of Atonement; the 
imposition of hands (on the sacrifice); the slaughtering of a sac- 
rifice; the waving of the offering; the bringing it to the altar; 
the taking of the handful of flour [Lev. ii. 2]; the burning 
with incense of the fat of a sacrifice on the altar; the pinching 
or wringing off of the head of fowls brought at sacrifices 
[Lev. i. 15]; the receiving of the blood of a sacrifice; the 
sprinkling thereof on the altar; the giving the bitter water 
to drink to a woman suspected of adultery; the striking off 
of the heifer’s neck [Deut. xxi. 4], and the purification of a 
leprous person. The following acts may be done during the 
whole of the night: The cutting of the sheaves for the “ omer,” 
and the burning of the fat and members of a burnt-offering on the 
altar [Lev. vi. 9]. This is the rule: Whatever is commanded to 


56 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


be done by day may legally be done during the whole of the 
day; and whatever is commanded to be done by night, it is 
lawful to do during the whole of the night. 

GEMARA: Whence do we deduce this? Because it is writ- 
ten: “ Those days are remembered and celebrated.” The read- 
ing of Hallel, as is written [Ps. cxiii. 3]: ‘“ From the rising of the 
sun unto the going down.” R. Joseph says: As it is written 
[ibid. cxviii. 24]: “ This is the day which the Lord hath made.” 
“The use of the Lulab,” because it is written [Lev. xxiii. 40]: 
“And ye shall take unto yourselves on the first day.”” “The 
sounding of the cornet,” because it is written [Num. xxix. 7]: 
“ A day of blowing of the cornet shall it be unto you.” “And 
the additional offering,” as it is written [Lev. xxiii. 37]: “ Every- 
thing upon its day.” And the prayer at the additional offering 
is like the offering itself.* 

“ This ts the rule,” etc. What is it meant to include? The 
putting away of the spoon of frankincense, and the taking it 
away (because the old must be taken away at the same time that 
the new is brought, as will be explained in Tract Mena’hoth). 

“ By night,” etc. What is it meant to include? The eating 
of the Paschal lamb, which is only before sunrise; and the Mishna 


is not in accordance with Elazar b. Azariah (as will be explained 


in Tract Mena’hoth). 





* The remaining laws of the Mishna are also deduced here from verses or from 
analogies of expression ; but they are found in other and more proper places, and 
are therefore here omitted. 





APPENDIX TO FOOTNOTE ON PAGE 53. 
Jastrow’s Dictionary has just reached us, and we are surprised not to find under 
sub. ‘Mi the quotation }M1d), repeated twice on page 19b, old ed., mentioned by us 
in our note, which means they struck the Ha/akha on its head. We fail to find 


any reason for this omission, as it seems to us very important that the quotation ~ 


should occur. 


a 


CHAPTER III. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE POSTURE OF THE READER OF THE 
MEGILLA, AND HIS CLOTHES, BEFORE PRAYER, 


MISHNA: The Megilla may be read either sitting or standing, 
by one person only, or by two persons at the same time. They 
alike fulfil their duty. In places where it is usual to say a bless- 
ing (after reading it) it is obligatory to say it, but not when it is 
not customary. Three men are called to read in the Holy Scrolls 
on Mondays and Thursdays; and in the afternoon of the Sabbath 
neither more nor less than that number may be called, nor shall 
any section from the Prophets then be read. He who commences 
the reading of the Holy Scrolls shall pronounce the first benedic- 
tion before reading it, and he who concludes the reading shall 
pronounce the last benediction after reading it. 

On the first of the month, on the intermediate days of the 
festivals, four men are to be called. This number may neither 
be added to nor diminished, nor shall any section of the Prophets 
then be read (the first of these men shall say the first blessing 
before reading, and the last who concludes the reading shall say 
the last blessing after reading). This is the rule: On all days, 
when an additional offering is prescribed, which are nevertheless 
not festivals, four men are to be called; five on festivals; six on 
the Day of Atonement; and seven on the Sabbath. - This number 
may not be diminished, but it may be increased, and a section of 
the Prophets must be read on those days. The first and the last 
readers shall pronounce the benedictions before and after reading. 

GEMARA: We have learned in a Boraitha: It is not so 
with the reading of the Torah, which can be read only when the 
congregation sits. Whencedo we deduce this? Said R. Abahu: 
It is written [Deut. v. 28]: “ But as for thee, stand thou here by 
me.” From this we infer, he should stand, and the congregation 
should sit. He says again: How do we know that the Master 
should not teach the disciple when he sits-on the bed, and the 
disciple on the floor? Because it is written: “Stand by (with) 
me’”’ (as I stand so you should stand). 

57 


58 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


The rabbis taught: From the time of Moses till Rabban 
Gamaliel the Law was studied standing; when R. Gamaliel died, 
sicknesses came into existence, and they began to study sitting. 
And this is what we have learned in a Mishna elsewhere, that 
since R. Gamaliel had died the honoring of the Law had ceased. 

One verse says [Deut. ix. 9]: “I sat on the mount”; and 
another [ibid. x. 10]: “I stood on the mount.” Said Rabh: 
He stood when he studied, and he sat when he repeated. R. 
Johanan, however, said: By “sitting’”’ is meant abiding, as is 
written [Deut. i. 46]: “And ye sat in Kadesh,” which means 
“dwelt.” Rabha says: The easy things he learned standing, 
and the difficult things he sat down to understand. 

“ By one person, or by two,” etc. We have learned in a Borai- 
tha: The law is not so with the Holy Scrolls (which only one 
can read, not two). 

The rabbis taught: The scrolls of the Pentateuch one should 
read and the other should interpret ; but not one shall read and 
two interpret ; but the Prophets: One should read and two may 
interpret it, but two should not read and two interpret. In case 
of Hallel and the Megilla, however, even ten may read and ten in- 
terpret. Why so? Because Hallel and the Megilla are dear to 
the people, and even if ten read they will give their attention. 

“In places where it ts usual to say a blessing,’ etc. Says 
Abayi: The Mishna refers only to the benediction after it ; but 
before, it is obligatory. As R. Jehudah said in the name of Sam- 
uel: For all religious duties, one should pronounce a benediction 
before they are done. 

What blessing should be pronounced before the reading of the 
Megilla? R. Shesheth of Qartazia said in the presence of R. 
Ashi: Three blessings: Blessed be He, etc., who has commanded 
us to read the Megilla; Blessed be He, etc., who has performed 
miracles for our ancestors; and the benediction of the time. 
What blessing is said after the reading of the Megilla? “Blessed 
be Thou, O Lord our God, King of the Universe, who hast taken 
up our quarrels, who hast judged our judgments, who hast taken 
revenge for us, who hast retaliated for us on our adversaries, and 
who recompensest according to their deservings all our enemies. 
Blessed be Thou, O Lord, who punishest all the adversaries of 
Israel.” Rabha said: ‘“ Blessed be Thou, God of salvation.” Said 
R. Papa: Therefore, we should say both: “ Blessed be Thou, O 
Lord, who punishest our adversaries, God of our salvation!” 

“ Three men are called to read,” etc. To what do the three 


TRACT MEGILLA. 59 


correspond? To the Torah, the Prophets, and the Hagiographa. 
So said R. Ashi. Rabha said: To priests, Levites, and Israelites. 
And R. Simi taught: One must not read less than ten verses 
in the house of prayer; and if one of them consists of the words, 
“And God spoke to Moses,” it is reckoned among the ten. To 
what do these ten correspond? R. Joshua b. Levi says: To the 
ten unemployed men in the synagogue. And R. Joseph said: 
To the ten commandments given to Moses on Sinai. R. Johanan 
says: To the ten sayings of the Lord, by which He created the 
world. 

Rabha said: The first of the three men who goes to read in 
the Torah, if he has read four verses, he may be praised; if not 
the first, but the second did it, he may be praised; if the third 
did this, he may be praised (and if all three read four verses each, 
all may be praised). It happened once R. Papa came to the 
synagogue of Abiguber ; and he read four verses to the first, and 
R. Papa praised him. 

““ Neither more nor less.’ We have learned in a Boraitha: 
“The beginner shall pronounce the benediction before the read- 
ing, and the last reader after.’’ But in this time, when we have 
the custom that everyone says the benediction both before and 
after, the reason why the rabbis have ordained so is that those 
who enter and go away in the middle of the reading should not 
fail to hear either the blessing before or after. 

“On the first of the month.” Ula bar Rabh asked Rabha: 
The portion about the beginning of the month [Num. xxviii. 11], 
how should it be read? Shall we begin to read with the first 
verse of the chapter which speaks about the daily offering—eight 
verses—how shall we do? If two each read three verses, only 
two will be left for the third, and two should not be read? If 
they read each four, then for the third will be left seven verses, 
because about Sabbath there are two, and about the first of the 
month five? If the third should begin with the ninth verse 
(about Sabbath), and read the two about Sabbath and one about 
the first of the month, we have learned ina Boraitha: One must 
not begin a portion (containing less) than three verses? (and 
about Sabbath there are two). If the third begin with Sabbath, 
and read three about the first month, then two verses will be left. 
Rabha answered: This I did not hear, but I heard something 
similar. We have learned in the Mishna, in Tract Taanith: 
“The first day one reads in Genesis from i. 6: ‘Let there be an 
expanse.’”’ Anda Boraitha added to this: From “In the begin- 


60 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


ning” should be read by two, and from “Let there be an ex- 
panse”’ should be read by one. And it was discussed: It is right 
that from “ Let there be an expanse” should be read by one, be- 
cause there are three verses; but up to that there are only five 
verses, and how can two men read it? Have we not learned ina 
Boraitha that each must read no less that three verses? And in 
answer to it, it was taught: Rabh said: The second should begin 
from the third verse, which has been already read ; and Samuel 
says: They shall divide the third verse into two parts. 

[Why does Rabh say he shall read a second time, and_not be- 
gin in the middle? Because Rabh holds the verse which Moses 
did not leave in the middle we may not split ; but Samuel says we 
may. And according to Samuel may we stop in the middle of the 
verse? Did not Hanania Kara say: I had great trouble when I 
was by R. Hanina the Great, who did not permit me to stop in 
the middle of a verse, except for the schoolchildren, because I 
had to teach them? Why did R. Hanina permit? Because 
schoolchildren could not otherwise be taught; and so Samuel 
allowed, because it was necessary. But why does not Samuel 


say as Rabh? Because if one enter in the middle, and hear the ~ 


second reading the third verse, he may think the first has read 
only two.] 

An objection was. raised: We have learned in Taanith: “A 
portion containing six verses may be read by two men, but if it 
contain five, only one man must read; but if the first has only 


read three, the second must read the remaining two, and one of 


the next portion. But, according to others, he must read three 
verses of the next, because he must not begin to read a portion, 
unless he read three verses.” Now, if it were as Rabh and 
Samuel say, why does not the Boraitha teach he shall repeat a 
verse, or stop in the middle? There the case is different ; because 
it is practicable, but not here. 

Said R: Tan’hum in the name of R. Joshua b. Levi: The 
Halakha prevails according to the saying of the Boraitha in the 
name of the others. And he says again: As one must not begin 
a portion, to read less than three verses, so one must not stop 
unless three verses are yet left. 

Rabba the son of Rabha sent to ask R. Joseph how the 
Halakha prevails. And he sent him the answer: The Halakha 
prevails, that it shall be repeated by the second reader. 

“ This ts the rule: When an additional offering.’ ‘The school- 
men propounded a question: Ona fast of the congregation how 








a ais 


fis tel 





4 


SRL a ae eee eh 


TRACT MEGILLA. 61 


many persons should be called to read? Should we say that be- 
cause on the first of the month and intermediate days there is an 
additional offering, four should read ; but on this occasion, when 
there is no additional offering, only three should read? Or that, 
because there is an additional prayer, four should be called to 
read ? Come and hear: It happened that Rabh came to Babylon 
on a congregational fast-day. _Hearoseand read in the Torah, and 
said a benediction when he began, but not when he finished. The 
whole congregation fell upon their faces, and he didnot. Now 
let us see: Rabh (who was no priest) could read only what an 
Israelite reads (¢.e., was the third). Why, then, did he not pro- 
nounce the benediction after he had finished? We must assume 
because he thought a fourth would yet read, so there would be 
four? Nay; Rabh was the beginner, and substituted a priest, 
because he was the best man; and we find in Gittin, that R. Huna 
did so too. It is right of R. Huna, because, as it is said there, 
R. Ammi and R. Ashi, although they were priests themselves 
and the most honored men of Palestine, nevertheless bowed be- 
fore R. Huna; but Rabh, how could he substitute a priest ? Was 
there not Samuel, who was a priest, and always had preference 
before Rabh? Nay; Samuel also bowed to Rabh; but Rabh 
gave preference to him only to honor him, and it seems to us 
that this is correct, that Rabh read first ; because if not so, why 
did he pronounce the benediction before? But perhaps it was 
after it was ordained that the benediction should be pronounced 
both before and after? Then he would have pronounced the 
benediction after it also? It is different. Where Rabh was, the 
people were permitted to enter the house of prayer, but not to 
leave, till Rabh finished lecturing. Hence there was no fear for 
those who might leave. (The question is therefore not decided, 
because after the first may be either two or three.) Come and 
hear. This is the rule: On the day when no labor is done, as 
on a congregational fast and the gth of Abh, three must read; 
and on those days when to do labor is not prohibited, as on the 
first of the month and intermediate days of a festival, four read. 
This decides the question. 

Said R. Ashi: Have we not learned in our Mishna: This 
is the rule: On the day which has an additional sacrifice, but 
is not a festival, four men read? Now, when it is said, “this 
is the rule,” may we not assume that it is meant to include 
a congregational fast and the 9th of Abh? Nay, a sign only 
was given that it should not be thought festivals and interme- 


62 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


diate days are equal in the reading of the Torah: they gave us 
a rule that even on a day having a preference over another day, 
one man more must be called to read. Therefore, on the first 
of the month, intermediate days, which have an additional sacri- 
fice, four read; on a festival, when.no labor may be done, five 
must read; on the Day of Atonement, which has a punishment 
of Kareth, six read ; on Sabbath, which has a capital punishment, 
seven read. 

It is said above: Rabh did not fall on his face. Why? Be- 
cause he was the most honored man; and this is similar to the 
teaching of R. Elazar: He said, an honored man must not fall 
on his face, unless he is sure he will be answered as Joshua b. 
Nun, of whom it is written [Josh. vii. 10]: “And the Lord said 
to Joshua: Get thee up; wherefore liest thou upon thy face?” 
Said R. Hyya bar Abbin: I saw that Abayi and Rabha used 
not to fall on their faces, but only reclined their heads on their 
hands. 

“Six on the Day of Atonement.” According to whom is our 
Mishna? Not according to R. Ishmael, and not according to R. 
Aqiba of the following Boraitha: “On the festival five, on the 
Day of Atonement six, and on the Sabbath seven—not more and 
not less. So is the decree of R. Ishmael. R. Agqiba says: Ona 
festival five, on the Day of Atonement seven, on Sabbath six— 
not less, but it may be more.” If the Mishna was in accordance 
with R. Ishmael, it would not allow, as he, more; and if in ac- 
cordance with R. Aqiba, the latter says, on Sabbath six? Said 
Rabha: The Mishna is in accordance with the disciples of R. 
Ishmael, who teach: On festivals five, on the Day of Atonement 
six, on Sabbath seven—not less, but more is permitted. So said 
R. Ishmael. This is in self-contradiction of R. Ishmael? There 
are two Tanaim: One says R. Ishmael had said so, and the sec- 
ond’ he had said otherwise. To what do the three, five, and 
seven correspond? R. Itz’hak b. Nahmani and R. Simeon b. 
Pazzi, according to others R. Samuel b. Nahmani—one said that 
it corresponds to the blessings of the priests (where there are 
three words in the first verse, five in the second, seven in the 
third), and the other said that they correspond to the three 
door-keepers [II Kings, xxv. 18] and the five men who could 
come unto the king’s presence [ibid. 19] and the seven who could 
see Ahasuerus [Esther, i. 14]. And the same taught R. Joseph. 
Said Abayi to him: Why has the Master not explained it to us 
before? He answered: I did not know you needed an explana- 


TRACT MEGILLA. 63 


tion of it, and you asked me not; did you ever ask me anything 
to which I answered not? 

Said Jacob, one of the Minim,* to R. Jehudah: The six men 
who read on the Day of Atonement, to whom do they corre- 
spond? Hesaid: To the six men who stood on the right and the 
left of Ezra, as is written [Nehem. viii. 4]: “The names of the 
six who stood on the right, and of the six that stood on the left.” 

The rabbis taught: All are entitled to be counted read among 
the seven on Sabbath, even a minor anda woman. The sages, 
however, said: A woman should not read in the Torah for the 
honor of the congregation. The schoolmen propounded a ques- 
tion: May the last reader from the Prophets be counted among 
the seven? R. Huna and R. Jeremiah bar Abba differ: One 
says yes; the other says no. The first gives the reason that, 
although he reads from the Prophets, he reads from the Pen- 
tateuch also, and why should he not be counted? while the 
second holds with Ula, who said that the reader from the 
Prophets reads from the Pentateuch only in honor of the Torah, 
not because it is his task; and therefore it is not counted. An 
objection was raised: We have learned that he who reads por- 
tions from the Prophets should read not less than twenty-one 
verses, to correspond to the verses from the Torah read by the 
seven men (each of whom read three). Now, if the same person 
reads also from the Pentateuch, he should read but twenty-four 
verses from the Prophets, as he himself read three in the Torah? 
As he reads only in honor of the Law, it should not be counted. 
Rabha opposed: Do not we read Jeremiah, vii., from verse 21 to 
chapter viii, where twenty-one verses are not found? There it 
is different, because the subject is concluded there. And where 
the subject is not finished, must we read twenty-one verses? Did 
not Samuel bar Abba say: I stood many times before R. Johanan, 
and when we had done reading ten verses, he told us to stop, 
though it was in the midst of the subject? Where there is an 
interpreter, the law is different. As R. Tahlipha b. Samuel 
taught: When must he read twenty-one verses? Where there is 
no interpreter, otherwise he may cease earlier. 

MISHNA: When men come into the synagogue after the 
prayer has been finished, they may not repeat the prayer if they 





* Tosphoth proposes it should be read Matzaa, of the city of that name, because, 
if he would be of the Minim, the Gemara would not mention his name. We, how- 
ever, have explained in our PAilacterien-Ritus that Jacob the Mini is right. 


64 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


are less than ten in number, nor may any of them act as minister 
before the reading-desk, nor may priests raise their hands (to say 
the priest’s blessing), nor may they read in the Law, nor read 
a section from the Prophets. When there are less than ten men 
present at a burial, the customary standings and sittings with 
the corpse, may not take place, nor may the blessing for mourners 
be said, nor the forms used in condolence with mourners, nor the 
seven blessings said on the celebration of a marriage, nor may the 
persons who join to say grace after meals mention the Divine 
name. And on an occasion of redeeming land that has been con- 
secrated it is necessary that at least nine Israelites and a Cohen 
(priest) shall be present, and the same also at the valuation of a 
man (if he had said: I consecrate the value of my person to the 
sanctuary). 

GEMARA: Where is this deduced from? Said R. Hyya b. 
Abba in the name of R. Johanan: Because it is written [Lev. 
XxXii. 32]: “ I may be sanctified among the children of Israel.” All 
things sanctified must not be less than ten.* 

“ Standings and sittings.’’ Because it was the custom for a 
mourner to say: “Rise, honored men, rise!” and “Sit down, 
honored men, sit down!” which may not be said to less than ten. 

“ Blessing for mourners,’ etc. What is the blessing for mourn- 
ers? The benediction they said in the streets after the burial. 
Then R. Itz’hak said in the name of R. Johanan that the bene- 
diction of mourners was pronounced by not less than ten men, 
and the mourners themselves are not counted. The benediction 
of bridegrooms, however, is also said by ten, including, however, 
the bridegrooms. 

“ Mention the Divine name.’ Why so? Because he must 
say: “ Let us bless our God,” and this is not suitable when there 
are less than ten.t (The Owner of Rewards shall recompense 
you for the kindness of accompanying the deceased. Blessed art 
Thou, O Lord, who givest rewards), and the same was said to the 
condolers. 

MISHNA: Not less than three verses of the Holy Scrolls 
may be read in the synagogue by each person (called to read). 
One verse only of the Law may at one time be read to the inter- 





* The Gemara deduces this from an analogy of expression, where a congrega- 
tion is mentioned, and it is said a congregation is not called an assembly if less than 
ten. ; 

+ it is also shown from what the other laws are deduced, but they will all be 
found in other and more proper places in the Talmud. 


TRACT MEGILLA. 65 


preter. From the Prophets, however, may be read three also; 
but if each verse should form a separate section, each must be 
read separately. Passages may be skipped in the reading of the 
Prophets, but not in that of the Holy Scrolls. What time may 
be suffered to elapse to skip from one passage to another ? while 
the interpreter does not conclude his interpretation. 

GEMARA: “‘ A separate section,’’ etc. For instance, Isaiah, . 
lii. 3, 4, and 5, treat of different subjects. 

** Passages may be skipped.’’ There is a contradiction: We 
have learned in a Mishna in Yoma the following: He reads Lev. 
xvi. 7, ‘‘ After the death,’’ etc., and then in xxiii. 27, “‘ But on 
the tenth.’’ From this we see that he skips in the Pentateuch 
also? Said Abayi: It presents no difficulty. Inthe Pentateuch 
one may not skip when it is one subject; but if there are two 
different subjects one may. But we have learned in a Boraitha 
that even when the subject is the same one may skip in the 
Pentateuch, and in the Prophets only when the subjects are dif- 
ferent? In both cases it is meant, while the interpreter does 
not conclude his interpretation. 

In another Boraitha we have learned: One must not skip 
from one Prophet to the other. In the reading of the twelve 
Minor Prophets, however, one may do so; but not from the ter- 
mination of one to the beginning of the other. 

MISHNA: Whoever reads in the house of prayer the section 
from the Prophets may also repeat the prayer (Shema) and act 
as minister before the reading-desk; and if he is a priest, may 
say the blessing of the priests. If a minor, his father or teacher 
shall act for him. 

A minor may read in the Law (in the synagogue) and act as 
an interpreter, but may not publicly recite the Shema, nor act 
as minister at the reading-desk, nor (if a priest) say by himself 
the blessing of priests. A man in rags may repeat the Shema 
and act as interpreter, but he may not read in the Holy Scrolls, 
nor act as minister before the reading-desk, nor (if a priest) say 
the blessing of priests. A blind man may repeat the prayer and 
act as interpreter; but R. Jehudah says: One who never beheld 
the light (z.¢., was born blind) may not repeat Shema. 

GEMARA: Why so? Said R. Papa: This is a reward of 
honor (because to read portions from the Prophets is not such 
an honor as to act as minister). Rabba bar Simi, however, said: 
To prevent quarrels (one should not say: I will read the Prophets 
and thou read the Shema). 

5 


66 - THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


‘* 4 man in rags.’ Ula bar Rabh asked Abayi: May a minor 
in rags read in the Torah? He answered: Why did you not 
ask about a naked man? Because we are certain that he must 
not, for the honor of the congregation, the same is the case here. 

We have learned in a Boraitha: The sages said to R. Jehu- 
dah: Many persons lectured about the Werkabha (Divine Chariot) 
[Ezekiel, i.], although they had never seen it. Answered R. 
Jehudah: That deals with things in the inner consciousness, and 
if one meditates about them one may be fit to lecture. But if 
a man blesses for light it is for the benefit received, and a blind 
man has no benefit by it. The rabbis, however, hold that a 
blind man does derive benefit from light, as R. Jose of the fol- 
lowing Boraitha said: My whole life I was sorry about the fol- 
lowing verse [Deut. xxviii. 29]: ‘‘ And thou shalt grope about 
at noonday, as the blind gropeth about in the darkness.’’ I 
always asked, what matters it to the blind whether it be light or 
darkness, he gropes at any rate? till it happened once I walked 
in a dark night, and I met a blind man who walked with a torch. 
I asked him: My son, thou art blind. Why walkest thou with 
fire? He replied: So long as the torch is in my hands, people 
see me, and would not let me fall into a pit or tread on thorns. 

MISHNA: A priest whose hands are deformed must not 
raise them (to bless the people). R. Jehudah also prohibits it 
to a priest whose hands are stained with wood or with madder 
roots, because the people stare at him. 

GEMARA: We have learned in a Boraitha: By the blem- 
ishes are meant those on his hands, face, or feet. R. Joshua b. 
Levi said: If there are eruptions on his hands, he must not raise 
them. We have learned the same in the following Boraitha: If 
he has eruptions on the hands, or they are crooked, he must not 
raisethem. Said R. Ashi: The priests from the villages ’ Hiphni 
and Bishni all stutter, and must not bless either. The same we 
have learned in the following Boraitha: One must not make men 
act as ministers who are from Beth Sheon or Beth Hippa; also 
the men of Tibonin, because they pronounce an a as an #, and 
ankasana.  R. Johanan said: A priest of one eye must not 
raise his hands. But was there not a one-eyed priest in the 
neighborhood of R. Johanan who did bless, and he said to him 
nothing ? That man was known in his town, and nobody stared 
at him because of his peculiarity ; as is stated in a Boraitha: If 
one such is known in his town, he may. 

“* R. Jehudah also prohibits.’’ .We have learned in a Boraitha: 


TRACT MEGILLA. 67 


If the majority of a town worked at the same kind of work, and 
their hands were stained also, he may. 

MISHNA: One who should say: ‘‘ I will not minister at the 
reading-desk in colored clothes,’’ may not be permitted to do so 
even in white ones [because we are afraid perhaps he becomes 
heretical, as only the Minim are particular about this]. If he 
refuses to minister with sandals on his feet, he may not be per- 
mitted to minister even barefooted. A man who makes the 
Tephilin round endangers himself, and has not properly observed 
the commandment.* A person who places them low down on his 
forehead, or on the palm of his hand, acts like the Sadducees. 
If he covers them with gold, or places them on his unzk/i,t+ he 
acts like a dissenter who does not care for our tradition. 

If one says in his prayers: ‘‘ The good shall bless Thee,”’ he 
acts heretically.{ If he says: ‘‘ As to birds’ nests were Thy 
mercies extended, so have mercy upon us’’; or, “‘ For Thy good 
be Thy name remembered ’’; or one who says twice ‘* Modim,”’ 
he shall be silenced (by authority). Also, whoever explains the 
text [Lev. xviii. 21]: “‘ And of any of thy seed shalt thou not 
let pass through to Molech’’ to mean, ‘‘ Thou shalt not give 
thy seed to an Aramite (heathen) woman,”’ (and those who ex- 
plain figuratively the section in the Law relating to carnal inter- 
course between relatives [Lev. xviii.]), shall be silenced, and 
publicly reprimanded. The occurrence of Reuben with Bilha is 
to be read without being interpreted; that of Tamar is to be 
read and interpreted. The first part of the occurrence with the 
golden calf is to be read and interpreted; but the second part 
[commencing Ex. xxxiv. 21] is to be read without being inter- 
preted. The blessing of the priests, and the occurrence of David 
and Amnon, are neither to be read nor interpreted; the descrip- 





*In our Philacterien-Ritus, pp. 56, 87, 126, we have corrected this misprint as, 
‘*it is dangerous and there is no merit in it.” We found this misprint corrected in 
Tract Tephilin of the seven new tracts by Kirchheim. 

+ About this Mishna we have remarked in our ‘‘ History of Amulets, Charms, 
and Talismans,” p. 30, note 33, thus: We have already demonstrated in ‘‘ Phyl.-R.,” 
p. 56 (and at length on p. 65, under the heading ssp), that the Mishna in Megilla, 
‘* If one cover them with gold,” etc., ‘‘ he acts like a dissenter,” refers to the Jewish 
Christians. 

¢ The expression here is not plain. It seems to us that the Mishna meant to say 
he acts like the Persians, who believe in two Gods—one of good, the other of evil 
—as the latter part of the Mishna, ‘‘who says twice Modin,” means: Who 
praises the God of good for his kindness, and the God of evil that he has not done 
evil. 


68 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


tion of the Divine Chariot [Ezek. i.] is not to be read as a por- 
tion from the Prophets, but R. Jehudah permits it. R. Eliezer 
says, neither [Ezek. xvi.]: ‘‘ Cause Jerusalem to know her 
abominations,’’ etc. 

GEMARA: “ The rabbis taught: The Scripture about the 
creation of the world may be read and interpreted.’’ [Is this 
not self-evident ? Lest one say if it will be read and interpreted, 
one may ask what was before the creation, or what will be after 
the world, what is taking place above, and what is occurring 
below, they come to teach us this is not feared.] What hap- 
pened to Lot and his two daughters may be read and inter- 
preted. [Is this not self-evident? One might say that we 
should care for the honor of Abraham: they come to teach it is 
not so.]| What happened to Tamar and Jehudah may be read 
and interpreted. [Is not this self-evident? Lest one say that 
we should care for the honor of Jehudah, they come to teach us, 
on the contrary, it is an honor for Jehudah that he confessed it. | 
What occurred with the golden calf may be read as far as the 
first part goes, and interpreted. [Is this not self-evident? We 
might assume we should care for the honor of Israel. They 
come to teach us that it is more agreeable to them when it is 
interpreted, that it causes their forgiveness.] The blessings and 
the curses pronounced by Moses in Leviticus and Deuteronomy 
may be read and interpreted. [Is this not self-evident? We 
might assume, perhaps, when they will hear it, they will become 
dejected, and say: If so, we will do all we please, as we will be 
punished so terribly in any event : they come to teach us it is 
not so.|_ The warnings and punishments may be read and inter- 
preted. [Is this not self-evident ? One might say if the pun- 
ishments will be read, one might think Israel should do their 
duties only from fear, they come to teach us this is not appre- 
hended.] The story of Abisolom, Amnan, and Tamar may be 
read and interpreted. [Is this not self-evident? One might 
say we should spare the honor of David. They tell us it is not 
so.] The story of the concubine in Gibea may be read and inter- 
preted. [Is not this self-evident ? They come to teach us that 
we should not do as R. Eliezer of the following Boraitha: It 
happened to a man who read in Ezekiel, xvi.: ‘‘ Make known 
unto Jerusalem her abominations,’’ in the presence of R. Eliezer, 
that R. Eliezer said to him: ‘‘ Instead of investigating the 
unworthiness of Jerusalem, go and rather investigate the faults 
of your mother.’’ When it was heard, an investigation was 


TRACT MEGILLA. 69 


made, and it was found he was not a rightful Israelite.] Fol- 
lowing are those which may be read, but not interpreted: What 
happened to Reuben and Bilha may be read, but not inter- 
preted. It happened once to R. Hanina b. Gamaliel, who went 
to Kabul, and the reader of the congregation read [Gen. xxxv. 
22]: ‘‘ And it came to pass when Israel dwelt,’’ he said to the 
interpreter: ‘‘Stop, do not interpret except the last verse.’’ 
And the sages commended him for this. The second part of 
the story about the golden calf may be read, but not inter- 
preted? What is the second part? From Ex. xxxii. 21-25. 

We have learned in a Boraitha: R. Simeon b. Elazar said: 
A man should always be prudent in his replies, for from Aaron’s 
answer to Moses, those that murmured became lawless; for they 
said: There is something in idolatry, for it is written: ‘‘ And I 
cast it into the fire, and there came out this calf.’’ The Bless- 
ing of Priests is read, but not interpreted, because it is written 
[Num. vi. 26]: ‘‘ The Lord lift up his countenance.’’ 

‘“* The occurrence of David and Amnan.’’ Did we not learn 
in a Boraitha that the story of Amnan and Tamar is to be read 
and interpreted ? It presents no difficulty: Where ‘‘ Amnan ben 
David’’ is written, it must not be read; but the other places 
may. 


CHAPTER IV., 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING SELLING OF SACRED PROPERTY AND ABOUT 
THE READING OF THE HOLY SCROLLS ON SABBATH AND HOLIDAYS. 


MISHNA: Inhabitants of a town who have sold the open 
(or market-) place of the town may buy for that money a prayer- 
house; the money obtained by the sale of a prayer-house they 
may apply to the purchase of an ark (to keep the Holy Scrolls 
in); for that obtained by the sale of such an ark, cloaks or wrap- 
pers for the Holy Scrolls may be purchased; for the proceeds of 
such wrappers, books of the Prophets and Hagiographa may be 
purchased; for the proceeds of the same books, the scrolls of the 
Pentateuch may be purchased; but if they had sold scrolls of 
the Pentateuch, it would not be lawful to apply that money for 
the purchase of books of the Prophets and Hagiographa, nor 
wrappers for the proceeds of such books, nor an ark for the pro- ~ 
ceeds of wrappers, nor a prayer-house with the proceeds of an 
ark, nor a market-place with the money obtained by the sale of 
a prayer-house; and so in respect to any surplus fund, © 

GEMARA: “‘ [nhabitants of a town.’’ Said Rabba bar bar 
Hana in the name of R. Johanan: All this was said by R. Mena- 
hem bar Jose, in accordance with whom are many anonymous 
Mishnas; but the sages said that there is no sanctity in a 
market-place. But what is the reason of R. Menahem b. Jose? 
Because on the congregational fast-days the people assembled 
in the market-places to pray (as is explained in Tract Taanith). 
The rabbis, however, do not care for what happens only occa- 
sionally. 

““ The money obtained by the sale of a prayer-house.’’ Said R. 
Samuel bar Na’hmani in the name of R. Jonathan: The case is 
only about prayer-houses of villages, where they are the inhab- . 
itants’ property; but in large towns, where money for them is 
collected from other places also, and to which other men come to 
pray, the congregation cannot sell it at all, because the prayer- 
house belongs to a majority who are absent, and it is not theirs. 

Said R. Ashi: The prayer-house in my town, Masa-Me’hasia 

ae) 


TRACT MEGILLA. 71 


(Sura), although the money was collected from abroad, yet be- 
cause they all came for my sake, I am the owner of it, and if 
I wish, I may sell it. Rabha said: What is said, that the money 
obtained for sacred property must be spent only on other sacred 
things, applies only to a case where it was not sold by the seven 
elders of the town, in presence of the townsmen, but if they did 
so, it may be spent even on drinking beer (if allso wish). There 
was a hill,.on which had stood a prayer-house, which Rabbina - 
wanted to sow. He came to R. Ashi, and asked whether he 
might do so. He answered him: Go and buy it from the seven 
elders of the city, in the presence of the townsmen, and then 
you may sow it. Rami bar Abha was engaged in building a 
new prayer-house; but he also had an old prayer-house, which 
he wanted to pull down in order to use the bricks and beams for 
the new structure. He asked himself this question: R. Hisda 
once said, one may not destroy an old prayer-house before the 
new one has been finished; but this is only because one is not 
sure whether the new one will be completed; I, who am certain 
that it will, may I pull it down or not? He went and asked 
R. Papa, who prohibited. He went then and asked R. Huna: 
he forbade him also. 

Rabha said: A prayer-house may be exchanged for another, 
or sold, but it may not be rented or pledged. Why? Because 
when it has been sold, its sanctity departs from it; but when 
rented or pledged, it remains holy, and may not be used for 
profane purposes. The same is it with the bricks of a prayer- 
house: they may be exchanged or sold, but not pledged. This 
applies to old bricks, but not to new ones which have not yet 
been used. About giving away, however, as a present, R. Aha 
and Rabbina differ: one says one may do so, and the other not. 

The rabbis taught: Articles used for a religious duty may be 
cast away; but such as are used in holy service must be hidden. 
What articles are used for religious duties? Such as a Sukkah, 
Lulab, cornet, Tzitzith. What are holy things? Scrolls of 
Scripture, Tephilin, Mezuzoth, also cases of scrolls, of Tephilin, 
and their straps. 

Said Rabha: I had thought before, that the pulpit on which 
the Holy Scrolls are laid to be read is not itself a sacred article, 
but only one used for the preparation of a holy article; but 
where I saw once the Holy Scrolls put down on it (without a 
cloth between), I thought it was itself used for a holy purpose, 
and therefore must not be sold. Rabha says again: At first I 


72 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


had thought the curtain of the ark was only an article used for 
a sacred article; but after I had seen that they folded it together, 
and put the Holy Scrolls on it, I knew it was a sacred article 
itself, and must not be sold. The same said again: Of an ark 
which fell to pieces one may construct a smaller ark, but nota — 
pulpit. He said again: When the curtain of the ark is rotten, 
one may cut it smaller for the use of the Holy Scrolls, but for 
scrolls of parts of the Pentateuch he must not. The cases of the 
Holy Scrolls and of the Five Books, as they were used for sacred 
purposes, must be hidden. Is this not self-evident ? Lest one 
say that they are not made for the honor of the sacred things, 
but to preserve them, he comes to teach us it is not so. 

Mar Zutra said: The Holy Scrolls, when rotten, may be used 
_as shrouds for a dead man that has no friends to bury him, and 
left no property to be used for that purpose, and this is hiding 
them. 

. Said Rabha: Holy Scrolls that were whole, and were torn, 
may be interred in the grave of a scholar, and even if he had 
learned only Halakhoth (and did not know Gemara). Said R. 
A’ha bar Jacob: But they must be put into a clay vessel, as it is 
written [Jer. xxxii. 14]: “‘ And place them in an earthen vessel.”’ 

R. Papi said in the name of Rabh: A prayer-house may be 
converted into a learning-house, but not vice versa; and R. Papa 
in the name of Rabha taught the contrary. Said R. A’ha: It 
seems to be according to R. Papi, because so said R. Joshua b. 
Levi: A prayer-house may be turned into a learning-house. 
. Infer from it that it is so. 

““ It will not be lawful to buy books of the Prophets,’’ etc. The 
schoolmen propounded a question: May old Holy Scrolls be 
sold, to purchase with the money new ones? Shall we assume 
that as the new ones have no preference over the old ones, they 
may not be sold; or that if the old ones are not sold, the new . 
ones cannot be had, therefore it may be done? Come and hear: 
Rabba bar bar Hana said in the name of R. Johanan, quoting 
R. Simeon b. Gamaliel: One must not sell old scrolls for the 
purpose of buying new ones. There it is different: It is a pre- 
cautionary measure lest he sell the old ones without buying new 
ones; but here the question is about such as are already written, 
and lie ready for us to be obtained when the money is had. 
How is the law? Come and hear: R. Johanan said in the name 
of R. Meir: In any case the Holy Scrolls must not be sold, except 
for the purpose of using the money for study, or for marriage. 


TRACT MEGILLA. 73 


From this we see that to exchange the Law for study, one may; 
so to exchange old scrolls for new ones, one may also. But per- 
haps it is different, because from studying he will know how to 
act; and marrying, because it is written [Is. xlv. 18]: “‘ Not for 
naught did he create it; to be inhabited did he form it.’’ But 
to exchange old Holy Scrolls for new ones, perhaps one may 
not? (This question is not decided.) 

The rabbis taught: A man shall not sell Holy Scrolls, even 
when he does not need them; furthermore, says R. Simeon b. 
Gamaliel, even when he has nothing to eat, and has sold the 
Holy Scrolls, or his daughter for a slave, he will not see a sign 
of blessing all his life. Even when he has sold them, and bought 
new ones instead at a lower price, he will not see a sign of bless- 
ing in the remainder of the money. Said Rabha: The case is 
only when old Holy Scrolls have been sold, and new ones 
bought, so that some money was left; but when money was col- 
lected for this purpose and Holy Scrolls were bought, but some 
money was left, it may be used for all purposes. And even in 
the first instance it is so only when the old Holy Scrolls had 
been bought by the seven elders of the town, in the presence of 
townsmen, without any condition; but if it was bought condi- 
tionally, it may be used even for Duksusia. 

Said Abayi to one of the rabbis, who arranged Boraithoth he 
fore R. Shesheth (who was blind): Hast thou not heard. from R. 
Shesheth what is meant by Duksusia? He answered: So said 
R. Shesheth: A rider, whom the people of the town hire for 
their needs. Said Abayi again: Therefore if a young scholar 
heard something and does not know it, he should ask a man 
who usually goes before the great rabbis, because it is impos- 
sible that he should not have heard an explanation from the 
great men. 

R. Johanan said in the name of R. Meir: When inhabitants 
of one town went away to another town, and the elders of that 
town ordered them to give charity for the poor of that town, 
they should give (that it should not be suspected they give no 
charity); but when they return, they may take it back, to sup- 
port therewith the poor of their own town. The same we have 
learned ina Boraitha. But if an individual went to another town, 
and was ordered to give charity there, it should be given away 
to the poor of that town. 

R. Huna ordered a congregational fast. Came to him R. 
Hana bar Hanilai, with many inhabitants of his town: he ordered 


74 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


them to give charity, and they didso. When they had to return, 
they said: Let the Master give us back the money, that we may 
support therewith the poor of our own town. He said to them: 
We have learned in a Boraitha: When must it be given back ? 
Where there is no scholar in their town who occupies himself 
with the public needs; but if there is such a man, it must be 
given to him, that he should dispose thereof. According to 
this judgment, so much the more the poor of my town and 
yours, all are supported through me. 

MISHNA: Sacred public property must not be sold to 
private individuals, because the sanctity thereby becomes low- 
ered. This is according to R. Meir. The sages, however, said: 
If so, it would also be prohibited for a large town to sell sacred 
things to a smaller one. 

A prayer-house may be sold, according to R. Meir, only con- 
ditionally (that if they want it, it shall be returned to them). 
But the sages permit it to be sold permanently, except for the 
four following uses: to be made a bathing-house, a tanning- 
place, a legal diving-bath, or laundry. R. Jehudah says: It 
may be sold on the condition that it be made an open court, and 
then the purchaser is at liberty to turn it to what purpose he 
pleases. 

GEMARA: “ But the sages permit to be sold permanently.”’ 
Said R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel: A man may let water 
within four ells of a prayer-house. Said R. Joseph, what does 
he come to teach us? We have learned this in a Mishna, R. 
Jehudah said, he may sell it for a court-yard, and the buyer can 
do what he pleases. And even according to the rabbis, who for- 
bid it, it is only in case of a prayer-house whose sacredness is 
permanent; but in regard to the four ells before the prayer- 
house, which have no sacredness, even the rabbis admit. One 
Tana taught in the presence of R. Na’hman: One who prays, 
and wants to let water, shall step away four ells and do so; and 
he who has done so must walk away four ells before he may 
pray. Said R. Na’hman to him: ‘‘ The last teaching is right, 
because we have learned in a Mishna that he must withdraw 
from such things to a distance of four ells; but that he who 
prays should go away four ells, why is this? By this teaching 
you make all streets of Nahardea sacred, for there is no place 
there where men have not prayed; hence letting water would 
be unlawful in them? Therefore teach, he must tarry for the 
length of time required for walking four ells, but need not walk.”’ 


TRACT MEGILLA. 75 


It is right that he who has let water should wait as long as walk- 
ing four ells requires, because the feet can be besprinkled and he 
must wait till they dry; but why shall he who has prayed wait 
for that time? Said R. Ashi: Because for that length of time 
the prayer is still in his mind and his lips still keep moving, if 
he had been praying. The disciples of R. Zakkai asked him: 
In reward of what have you been living so many years? He 
replied: I never let water within four ells from a prayer-house, 
and I never called my neighbor nicknames. It never happened 
I should pronounce the morning benediction of the Sabbath with- 
out a goblet of wine: it happened once I had no money to buy 
with, and my old mother sold the cap from her head and brought 
me wine for Kiddush. 

[It is taught in a Boraitha:] when she died she left three hun- 
dred cans of wine, and when he died he left to his heirs three 
thousand cans of wine. R. Huna stood in the presence of Rabh, 
girdled with a piece of rubber gum. And Rabh asked him: Where 
is thy girdle? He said: I had not wine for Kiddush, and 
pawned my girdle to get it. Rabh answered him: May it be 
God’s will that you should be wrapped in silk. When he mar- 
ried his son Rabha, he slept on a bed; as he was not tall, his 
daughters and daughters-in-law threw their silken clothes upon 
him, and he was wholly hid. When Rabh heard of this, he was 
sorry, and said: When I blessed you, why did you not answer 
me: and the same to the Master. 

The disciples of R. Elazar b. Shamua asked him: In reward 
of what have you lived so long? He replied: I never used the 
house of learning as a passage (compendiarius, thoroughfare); I 
never trod on the heads of the holy people (he used to come 
earlier than his disciples, and did not make them rise from their 
seats on the ground, as it is in the East); and I never raised my 
hands (for he was a priest) to bless Israel without pronouncing 
first a benediction. R. Preda was asked the same question by 
his disciples. He told them it never happened a man should 
come to the house of learning earlier than I; I never pronounced 
a benediction at a meal in the presence of a priest; and I never 
ate of an animal of which the gifts had not been separated, as R. 
Itz’hak said in the name of R. Johanan: It is not allowed to eat 
of an animal of which gifts have not been made to the priest 
even in these days. The Master says: ‘‘ I have pronounced no 
benediction in the presence of a priest.’” Is that a merit? Did 
not R. Johanan say a scholar for whom a priest, even a high- 


76 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


priest, who is an ignorant man pronounces a benediction (which 
properly the scholar had to pronounce, and the latter had not 
protested, he) deserves death, because it is written [Prov. vii. 
36]: ‘‘ All those that hate me love death’’? Do not read 
‘* Mesanai,”’ etc. (see Sabbath, p. 236). R. Preda means when 
the priest was equal to him in scholarship. 

The disciples of R. Nehunia b. Haqana put to him the same 
question, and he answered: I never honored myself by the dis- 
grace of my neighbor, and I never went to bed with the curse 
of my neighbor (but reconciled myself to him before), and was 
liberal with my money. 

[‘‘ I never honored,’’ etc. As it happened, R. Huna bore a 
pickaxe. KR. Hana bar Hanailai took it away from him, and he 
wanted to carry it. He said to him: If it is your custom to 
carry such a thing in your town, doit; but otherwise, if I will be 
honored by your disgrace, I do not want it. ‘“‘I never went to 
bed.’’ As Mar Zutra, when he went to bed, used to say: I 
pardon all the men who have vexed me. ‘‘I was liberal.’’ As 
the Master said elsewhere that Job was liberal with his money; 
that is, he allowed the storekeepers larger profits than was nec- 
essary. | 

R. Agiba asked R. Nehunia the Great the reason for his 
longevity. His servants came and beat him (for the question). 
R. Aqiba fled from them, and went to the top of a tree, and 
said: Rabbi, when it is written [Num. xxviii. 4] ‘“‘ one sheep,”’ 
if it is not in the plural why should “‘ one’’ be written in addi- 
tion? And he said to his servants: He is a young scholar ; do 
not hit him. And he answered to him: ‘‘ One’’ is added to 
signify that it shall be the best in its flock. (Then he answered 
to him to the first question thus :) I never accepted in my life 
presents, I never was obstinate, and I was liberal with my 
money. 

[‘‘I accepted no presents.’’ As happened to R. Elazar, 
when gifts were sent to him from the house of the Nasi, he did 
not take them; and when he was invited, he used not to go. 
He used to say: When they send to me gifts, they do not wish 
that I shall live, for it is written [Prov. xv. 27]: ‘‘ He that 
hateth gifts will live.’’ And R. Zera, when gifts were sent to 
him, he did not accept; but went when he was invited, saying: 
““ They only want to honor me.’’ ‘‘ And I was not obstinate.’’ 
As Rabha said: Who yields from his obstinacy has his sins can- 
celled. As it is written [Micah, vii. 18]: ‘‘ Pardoning iniquity 


TRACT MEGILLA. 77 


and forgiving transgression’’; and that is interpreted in Tract 
Rosh Hashana: To whom does God pardon iniquity? Him 
who pardons the wrongs of his neighbor toward him. Rabbi 
asked R. Joshua b. Korha: In reward of what have you lived so 
long? He answered to him: Does it grieve you that I live so 
long? Herejoined him: Rabbi, it isa study, and I want to learn 
it from you. He replied: I never in my life looked into the 
face of a wicked man [as R. Johanan said: One shall not look 
at the appearance of a wicked man, as it is written (II Kings, iii. 
14)]: ‘‘ Surely, were it not that I regard the presence of Jehosha- 
phat the King of Judah, I would not look toward thee nor see 
thee.’’ Rabha says: From the following passage [Prov. xviii. 
5]: “‘ It is not good to favor the countenance of the wicked.’’ 
When R. Joshua b. Korha was dying, Rabbi asked him: Bless 
me! Andhe said to him: It shall be the will of God you should 
reach the half of my age. Said he to him: Rabbi, and not your 
whole age? Doyou not wish I should live as longas you? He 
replied to him: And what will your sons do? will they tend 
sheep? If you will live so long, you will survive them (Rabbi 
was a Nasi). The disciples of R. Adda bar Ahba* asked him: 
Why have you lived so long? He answered: I never was angry 
in my house, I never preceded a superior, I never thought of 
Divine subjects in unclean alleys, and I never walked four ells 
without thinking about the Law and without phylacteries, and 
I never took a nap in the house of learning; I never rejoiced 
when my neighbor was in misfortune, and I never called my 
fellowmen nicknames. ] 

MISHNA: Furthermore, R. Jehudah says: No funeral ora- 
tions may be delivered in a house of prayer which had become 
ruinous, nor may it be used as a rope-walk, nor to spread nets 
therein, nor to spread fruit on its roof, nor to use it as a passage 
—compendiarium—(by a shorter route), as it is said [Lev. xxvi. 
31]: ‘‘I will bring your sanctuaries into desolation.’’ That 
means, they remain sanctuaries even in their desolation. If 
grass spring up therein, it may not be pulled up, that the view 
may contribute to the affliction (of the beholder). 

GEMARA: The rabbis taught: The house of prayer must 
not be treated with levity: one must not eat therein, drink, 
decorate one’s self there, promenade, nor resort there from the 
great heat or from rain; one must not deliver there a funeral 





* In text it is written R. Zera, but it is a misprint. See Taanith, p. 54. 


78 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


oration after an individual, but one may read there, study 
Mishna, and deliver a funeral oration after a scholar who was 
needed by many men. And it has to be swept always, also 
sprinkled with water, that there be no dust, and no grass grow 
(where there is no floor), R. Jehudah said: ‘‘ This is when they 
are in good condition; but when in ruins, if grass spring up, it 
may not be pulled up, that the view may contribute to the afflic- 
tion.’’ R. Asi said: The prayer-houses which are in Babylon, 
although they are built conditionally, yet in the meantime no 
one allows himself any levities in them. What does he mean 
thereby ? They do not make business calculations there. R, 
Asi said again: When business calculations are made in the 
prayer-house, finally it will become a place for a dead body for 
a night. How is this to be understood? He means to say that 
in punishment of this, some one will die in the town who will 
have no friends, and will be left overnight in the house of prayer. 
“* Decorate one’s self.’’ Said Rabha: The scholars and disciples 
may do it in the learning-house. As R. Joshua b. Levi said: 
Why is a learning-house called the house of the rabbis? _Be- 
cause some things it is allowed to the rabbis to do which is not 
permitted to others. 

‘“‘ From the great heat or rain.’’ As Rabbina and R. Ada bar 
Mathna stood and asked a question of Rabha, meanwhile it be- 
gan to rain. They entered the house of prayer, but remarked 
thereat: We go to the prayer-house not from the rain, but for 
the study of a Halakha for which the mind must be clear as the 
sunny day, when a north wind blows, purifying the air. R.A’ha 
b. Rabha asked R. Ashi: How is it when one wants to see a man 
who is in the prayer-house ? May one goin to call him, or not ? 
He answered: If he is a young scholar when he enters the 
prayer-house, he should speak about some Halakha. When 
he is a disciple studying Mishna, he should study, entering, a 
Mishna; if he can only read the Pentateuch, he should say a 
verse therefrom; if he is unable to do this, he should ask a 
child: What verse have you learned to-day? If not even this, 
he should enter, and stay there a while, and only then leave 
(that it should not seem he came only for this purpose). ‘“‘ After 
a scholar who was needed,’’ etc. What is meant by this? R. 
Hisda pointed out, e.g., if anyone of R. Shesheth’s disciples 
should die. R. Shesheth pointed out R. Hisda: If, ¢.g., one of 
R. Hisda’s disciples would die. 

Raphram lamented his daughter-in-law in the prayer-house. 


TRACT MEGILLA. 79 


He said: For my honor, and in honor of the deceased, the whole 
world will come to hear my oration. R. Zera lamented after 
one of the rabbis in the prayer-house, and said: Either in my 
honor or in honor of the deceased all will come to hear. Resh 
Lakish delivered a funeral oration after a young scholar who had 
been in Palestine, and taught Halakhoth to twenty-four rows of 
disciples. Hesaid: Woe! that the land of Israel has lost sucha 
great man. One scholar died who had known Halakhoth, Siphra, 
Siphri, and Tosephta. They came and told R. Na’hman he 
should lament him. R. Na’hman said: What shall I say to 
such a great man—shall I say, Woe! that such a book-case full 
of books was lost? (He learned all by himself and not from 
masters, therefore he styles him merely thus, but not “‘ scholar,”’ 
because maybe he learned by heart” but did not understand the 
reasons.) Come and see the difference between the mighty of 
the land of Israel and the pious ones of Babylon. (Rashi ex- 
plains it thus: Resh Lakish was of the most honored men of 
Palestine, as it is said elsewhere that even to Rabbi bar bar Hana 
he did not talk in the street. Nevertheless, as above said, when 
a young scholar, learned only in Halakhas, died, he made the 
lamentation without any questions. R. Na’hman b. Itz’hak 
was of the pious men of Babylon, as it is said elsewhere that he 
said: Do not mention fear of sin, because I live yet.) 

We have learned in a Mishna in Aboth: ‘‘ Who uses the 
crown, is lost.’’ Resh Lakish taught : That means, if one uses 
for his service a man who learns Halakhoth, which are the 
crown of the Law. Said Ula: A man can use the service of 
one who learns four Halakhoth, but not of one who Zeaches four 
Halakhoth; as happened with Resh Lakish, who walked on the 
road, and had to cross a stream. A man came, took Resh La- 
kish on his shoulders, and carried him across. Resh Lakish asked 
him: Can you read in the Torah? He said yes. Can you read 
in the Mishna? He said: I have studied four sections of the 
Mishna. Said Resh Lakish to him: You have cut out for your- 
self four rows of gold, and still you carried the son of Lakish on 
your shoulders? Throw him into the water! Said the man: It 
is agreeable to me to serve the Master. Said he: You may do 
it only when you will have learned from me something (and then 
he taught him a Halakha). 

The rabbis taught: The burial of a corpse and the marriage 
of a bride supersede the study of the Law. It was said of R. 
Jehudah b. R. Ilai: He used to interrupt his study for the above 


80 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


two things. This is in the case when the dead man has not 
enough men to accompany him, but if there are enough, one 
need not interrupt his study. What is meant by “‘ enough’’? 
Said R. Samuel bar Inia in the name of Rabh: It means thir- 
teen thousand men, and six thousand with cornets. And ac- 
cording to others, the six thousand are included in the thirteen 
thousand. And Ula says: As many men as could form a wall 
from the place where the man died to the grave. R. Shesheth 
says: Six hundred thousand men. As the Law was given to 
six hundred thousand men, so a man who has learned the Law 
should be accompanied by six hundred thousand men. This 
applies only to a disciple who has learned, but for the Master 
who taught, no definite number is to be prescribed. 

We have learned in a Boraitha: R. Simeon b. Yochi said: 
Come and see how the Israelites are beloved by the Holy One, 
blessed be He. Wherever they went in exile, the Shekhina 
accompaniedthem. They were exiled into Egypt, the Shekhina 
was with them, as is written [I Sam. ii. 27]: “‘ Did I not appear 
unto the house of thy father, when they were in Egypt ?’’ 
When they were exiled into Babylon, the Shekhina was with 
them, as is written [Is. xliii. 14]: “‘ For your sake I was sent to 
Babylon.’’ And in future, when they will be redeemed, the 
Shekhina will also come to them, as is written [Deut. xxx. 3]: 
““ The Lord thy God will return’’; it is not said, He will bring 
back you, but He will return with you. 

It is written [Ezek. xi. 16]: “‘ Yet will I be to them as a 
minor sanctuary.’’ Said R. Itz’hak: This means the houses of 
prayer and the houses of learning that are in Babylon. R. 
Elazar said: That is the house of our Master who is in Babylon 
(z.e., Rabh). Rabha lectured: It is written [Ps. xc. 1]: ‘* Lord, 
a place of refuge hast thou been unto us.’’ That means the 
prayer and learning-houses. Said Abayi: Formerly I learned 
at home, and prayed at the house of prayer; but when I heard 
later what David said [in Ps. xxvi. 6]: ‘‘ Lord, I love the site 
of thy house,’’ I went to study also in the prayer-house. 

A Boraitha states: R. Elazar the Kapar said: The prayer 
and learning-houses which are at present in Babylon will in the 
future be established in the land of Israel, as it is written [Jer. 
xlvi. 18]: “‘. . . as Thabor is among the mountains, and as 
Carmel is by the sea, so shall he come.’’ Ana fortiort conclusion 
is to be drawn: If Thabor and Carmel, at which only occasionally 
the Law was studied, are counted among the land of Israel, the 


TRACT MEGILLA. 81 


prayer and learning-houses, at which the Law is still studied, so 
much the more that they will become the land of Israel. 

Bar Kapara lectured: It is written [Ps. lxviii. 17]: ‘“ Why 
watch ye enviously, ye many-peaked mountains ?’’ A Heavenly 
voice was heard, which said to the mountains: ‘“‘ Why should ye 
be jealous of Mount Sinai? Ye, all great mountains, are blem- 
ished in comparison with Sinai.’’ This is inferred from the 
expression ‘‘ Gabuunim,’’ and by analogy of expression in Lev. 
xxi. 20, the expression ‘‘ crook-backed,’’ which is one of the 
blemishes, is ‘‘ Gzben.’’ Said R. Ashi: From this we may infer 
that a man who is haughty must be considered as blemished. 

““ Nor used as a passage’’ (compendiarium). What is meant ? 
Said Rabha: The explanation is similar to the word; instead of 
going around, one goes through the house. Said R. Abahu: If 
the house was originally used as a shorter route, one may. R. 
Na’hman b. Itz’hak said: If one entered it without the intention 
to use it thus, but afterward wants to go through the other door, 
he may. And R. Helbi in the name of R. Huna said: If he 
entered to pray, he may go out by the shorter road. As is writ- 
ten [Ezek. xlvi. 9]: “‘ But when the people of the land came 
before the Lord on the appointed feasts, he that entereth in by 
the way of the north gate to bow himself down shall go out by 
the way of the south gate.’’ 

“Tf grass spring up,’ etc. But did we not learn in a Bo- 
raitha, he must not pull it up to feed therewith cattle, but he 
may uproot it, and leave it lie? In the Mishna also is meant, 
he should not pull it up for animals. 

MISHNA: When the first of Adar falls on a Sabbath, the 
portion Shekalim [Exod. xxx. 11] is to be read; if it falls on 
any other day, that portion must be read on the preceding Sab- 
bath, and nothing additional is read on the following Sabbath. 
On the second, the portion ‘‘ Remember’”’ [Deut. xv. 15] is to 
be read; on the third, that of the red heifer [Numb. xix.]; on 
the fourth, that of the new moon [Ex. xvii.]; on the fifth, they 
return again to the regular order. The regular order of Aphta- 
roth is also to be interrupted on the days of new moon, on that 
of Hanuka, on Purim, and on public fast-days, also on the fast 
of the standing men (this is explained in Tract Shekalim), and 
the Day of Atonement. 

GEMARA: We have learned in the Mishna in Shekalim 
(vol. iv., p. 1): ‘‘ On the first day of the month of Adar warn- 


ings are heralded from Jerusalem concerning Shekalim and 
6 


82 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Kelayim.’’ About Kelayim it is the time of sowing, therefore 
it is right that it is heralded they should have no Kelayim; but 
whence do we deduce that about Shekalim it must be heralded 
on the first of Adar? Said R. Tebi in the name of R. Joshia: 
It is written [Num. xxviii. 14]: ‘‘ This is the burnt-offering of 
the new moon for every month.’’ The expression is: ‘‘ Hodesh 
behodsho’’ (t.e., new in its new), that means that the Torah said: 
Renew it. Ye shall bring the offerings from the new taxes of 
the year, and as with the first of Nisan begins the new year, it 
must be heralded in Adar that the new taxes shall be collected 
before or on the first of Nisan, for the purpose that they might 
be brought in time to the Temple. 

Is the Mishna not in accordance with R. Simeon b. Gamaliel, 
who said: Only two weeks before Passover shall it be lectured 
about the Passover? Nay, we can say it is in accordance with 
R. Simeon b. Gamaliel also, but because in Shekalim, I, Mishna c, 
it is said: ‘“ On the fifteenth of Adar the money-changers out- 
side of Jerusalem seated themselves at their tables,’’ etc., we 
must be earlier in reading the portion of Shekalim. What is 
called the portion of Shekalim ? Rabh says: The portion about 
the daily offerings [Num. xxviii. 2]. And Samuel says: Ex. 
xxx. 21. Itis right according to Samuel that it is called Sheka- 
lim, because it speaks about it; but according to Rabh, where is 
‘mentioned in that portion about Shekalim ? About Shekalim is 
not mentioned, but according to Rabh this shall be read because 
the daily offerings must be brought from the new Shekalim as 
R. Tebi said above. We have learned in the following Boraitha 
in accordance with Samuel: If the first of Adar falls on Sabbath, 
the portion from Ex. xxx. 21 shall be read; and the portion from 
the Prophets should be about Yehoyada the priest [II Kings, 
xii.]. R. Itz’hak of the city of Naph’ha said: If the first of 
Adar falls on Sabbath, three Holy Scrolls must be taken out, 
and it should be read from one the portion due on that Sab- 
bath, and from one the portion proper on the first of the month, 
and from one the portion of Shekalim [Ex. xxx. 21]. He says 
again: When the first of the month Tebeth falls on Sabbath, 
the same thing is to be done—three scrolls are to be taken out: 
one portion proper for the Sabbath should be read, the second 
that of the first day of the month, and the third about Hanuka 
[Num. vii.]. It was taught: When the first of Tebeth falls on a 
week-day, said R. Itz’hak: Three must read the portion of the 
first day of the month, and one about the sanctification; and 


TRACT MEGILLA. 83 


R. Dimi from the city of Hepha said, Three must read about 
the sanctification, and one about the first of the month. Said 
R. Mani: It seems to us that R. Itz’hak of Naph’ha is correct; 
because a frequent thing is given preference over an unfre- 
quent thing, and we read Hanuka once a year, while the first of 
the month is twelve times. Said R. Abbin: On the contrary, 
it seems to be according to R. Dimi, for what is the cause of the 
fourth man being called to read the Torah? The first of the 
month. Therefore the fourth man must read the portion of the 
first of the month. How is it to be decided? R. Joseph said: 
We must give preference to Hanuka; and Rabba said, to the 
first of the month. And the Halakha prevails that the main 
attention must be given to the first of the month, not to Hanuka. 

It was taught: When the Sabbath of Shekalim falls when the 
portion proper to this Sabbath is Thetzaveh * [Ex. xxvii. 20], 
said R. Itz’hak of Naph’ha: Six persons should read from 
verse 20 of xxvii. to verse I1 of xxx., and one from verse II in 
xxx. to verse 17. Said Abayi: The people will think the por- 
tion is so long, and will not notice that they read the portion 
Shekalim, therefore he says six should read from 20 in xxvii. to 
17 in xxx. (Thetzaveh), and then should come another and repeat 
from II in xxx. to 17 (Shekalim). It was taught: When the 
first of Adar falls on the eve of Sabbath, said Rabh, the portion 
Shekalim should be read the preceding Sabbath, because the 
tables of money-changers are set up two weeks after the read- 
ing, and if it will be read on the succeeding Sabbath, they will 
not be set up on the 15th, but two days later. Samuel, how- 
ever, said: It should be read on the succeeding Sabbath. The 
tables will not be set up at all events until Sunday, because they 
will not begin on the eve of Sabbath, consequently the reading 
will not cause any delay. Their point of difference is the same 
as that of the Tanaim of the following Boraitha: There must be 
an interruption between the Sabbaths, on which must be read 
the four portions before Passover; so is the decree of R. Jehu- 
dah Hanasi. R. Simeon b. Elazar, however, said: No inter- 
ruption must there be. And he said again: I say, there must 
be no interruption only then when the first of Adar falls on the 
eve of Sabbath, but if in the middle of the week, the portion 





* In Babylon they read through the Pentateuch once a year, as we do now; in 
Palestine, once in three years. This question applies to both ; it can happen in both 
that the portion of Thetzaveh before that of Shekalim can come to have to be read 
when Shekalim should be. 


84 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Shekalim must be read on the preceding Sabbath, although the 
Sabbath is yet in the month Shebat. 

‘* On the second the portion ‘Remember’ is to be read.’ It 
was taught: When Purim falls on the eve of Sabbath, said Rabh: 
The portion ‘‘ Remember ’”’ should be read on the preceding Sab- 
bath, because, if on the Sabbath after, ‘‘ Remember ’’ will be read 
after it has been done (with the reading of the Megilla). Sam- 
uel, however, said it should be read on the succeeding Sabbath; 
and concerning the fact, that the reading of the Megilla must 
not precede the reading of ‘‘ Remember,”’ it will not precede in 
the walled towns, where it is read on the 15th, and then “‘ Re- 
member ’”’ will be read before the Megilla. When, however, 
Purim falls on Sabbath, said R. Huna, all agree it must not be 
read the preceding Sabbath, but on the same Sabbath. R. Na’h- 
man, however, said: Rabh and Samuel differ also about this. 
The same was taught also by R. Hyya bar Abba in the name 
of R. Abba quoting Rabh: When Purim falls on Sabbath, the 
portion ‘‘ Remember”’ should be read the preceding Sabbath. 

“* The third, that of the red heifer.’’ The rabbis taught: 
What is meant by the third Sabbath? The one falling after 
Purim. In the name of R. Hama bar Hanina it was taught: By 
the third Sabbath is meant the one after which comes the first 
day of Nisan. They do not differ, however, when the first of 
Nisan occurs on Sabbath. On the preceding Sabbath the por- 
tion of the heifer must be read; and when it falls on a week-day, 
it has to be read on the Sabbath after Purim. 

‘“‘ The fourth, that of the new moon.’’ The rabbis taught: 
When the first of Adar falls on Sabbath, the portion Shekalim 
must be read, and the portion of the Prophets should be about 
Yehoyada the priest. And what is called the first Sabbath ? 
The one after which the first of Adar falls in the same week, 
and even on the eve of the succeeding Sabbath. On the second 
has to be read ‘‘ Remember,’’ and the portion of the Prophets 
must be from I Sam. xv.: ‘‘I remember what Amalek,’’ etc. 
And what is called the second Sabbath? When Purim falls on 
the week after it, and even on the eve of Sabbath after it. On 
the third Sabbath it must be read about the heifer, and the 
portion of the Prophets in Ezek. xxxvi. 24: “‘I will sprinkle 
upon you.’’ And what is called the third Sabbath? When it 
falls after Purim. The fourth Sabbath it has to be read about 
the new moon, and the portion of the Prophets shall be from 
Ezek. xlv. 18: ‘‘ Thus has said the Lord Eternal, in the first 


TRACT MEGILLA. 85 


month, on the first of the month.’’ And what is called the 
fourth Sabbath ? When the first of Nisan falls in the week after 
it, and even on the eve of the next Sabbath. 

‘ On the fifth, they return again to the regular order.’’ What 
order is meant? R. Ami says: To the order of the portions 
usually read on each Sabbath; and R. Jeremiah says, to the 
order of the portions from the Prophets (because on these four 
Sabbaths the portions from the Prophets were different). Said 
Abayi: It seems to us it should be as R. Ami said, as the 
Mishna stated above (p. 81) agrees with his opinion. 

MISHNA: On the first day of Passover the portion in Leviti- 
cus relating to the festival must be read; on Pentecost that com- 
mencing ‘‘ Seven weeks shall ye count,’’ etc. [Deut. xvi.]; on 
the day of New Year, the portion commencing ‘‘ In the seventh 
month, on the first day of the month’’ [Num. xxix. 7]; on the 
Day of Atonement that of ‘‘ After the death’’ [Lev. xvi.]; on 
the first day of the Feast of Tabernacles, the portion of Leviti- 
cus relative to the festivals must be read; and on the other days 
of that festival the offerings for each day [Num. xxix. 17]. 

On the half feast of Hanuka, the portion of the offerings of 
the princes [Num. vii.] must be read; on Purim, that of ‘‘ And 
Amalek came’’ [Ex. xvii. 8]; on the first of the month, ‘‘ And 
on the beginnings of your months’’ [Num. xxviii. 11]; on the 
fast-days for the standing men, about the creation [Gen. i.]; on 
fast-days, the portion containing the blessings and maledictions 
[Lev. xxvi. 3]; the denunciations therein contained must be read 
without interruption; namely, one man must read the whole 
chapter. On Mondays and Thursdays, and on the Sabbath 
afternoon, they shall read the portion of the Torah in its regular 
order, but these readings are not available to reduce the regular 
number, for it is written [Lev. xxiii. 14]: ‘‘ Moses declared unto 
the children of Israel the appointed festivals of the Lord.’’ 
Whence it is inferred that each must be read on the appointed 
festival to which it refers. 

GEMARA: The rabbis taught: On Passover should be read 
the portions referring to this festival, and the portions from 
the Prophets should be from Joshua, v. 9, about Gilgal, etc. ; and 
at present in exile, when we keep two days as festivals, the first 
day should be about Gilgal; the second day from II Kings, xxiii., 
about Joshiah; the last days of Passover should be selected small 
portions in which it is spoken about Passover. What are they ? 
(This will be explained further on.) And the last days of Pass- 


86 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


over—on the first of them should be read [Ex. xiii. 17], ‘‘ And it 
came to pass when Pharaoh,”’ and the portion from the Prophets 
should be from II Samuel, xxii., ‘‘ And David spoke’’; and on 
the next day [Deut. xv. Ig], “‘ All the first-born males,’’ and from 
the Prophets, in Isaiah, x. 32, ‘‘ As yet to-day will he remain at 
Nob.’’ Said Abayi: And now people have the custom to read 
as follows: ‘‘ Draw out’’ [Ex. xii. 21], ‘‘ When a bullock ’”’ [Lev. 
xxii. 27], ‘“* Sanctify ’’ [Ex. xiii. 2], ‘‘ If thou lend ”’ [ibid. xxii. 
24], and ‘‘ Hew thyself’’ [ibid. xxxiv. 1], ‘‘And the Lord spoke’’ 
[Num. ix. 1], and “‘ It came to pass’’ [Ex. xiii. 17], and then 
“All the first-born’ [Deut. xv. 19]. On Pentecost, ‘‘ Seven 
weeks shalt thou number ’’ [Deut. xvi. 9], and from the Prophets, 
in Habakkuk, iii. An anonymous teacher says [Ex. xix.]: ‘‘ In 
the third month,’’ and the portion from the Prophets should be 
from Ezekiel, i., about the Divine Chariot. And now when in 
exile we keep two days Pentecost, we do as both have said, but 
reverse it on the first day of the New Year, as the anonymous 
teacher, and on the second as above. In the days of the New 
Year, ‘‘In the seventh month’’ [Num. xxix.], and from the 


Prophets, ‘“‘Is not Ephraim a dear son’’ [Jerem. xxxi. 20]. - 


According to others, ‘‘ And the Lord visited Sarah’’ [Gen. 
xxi.], and from the Prophets, about Hannah [I Sam. i.]. And 
now when we keep two days, we read on the first about Sarah, 
and the second, ‘“‘ God did tempt Abraham ’’ [Gen. xxii.], and 
the portion from the Prophets, ‘‘ Is not Ephraim’’ [Jer. xxxi. 
20]. On the Day of Atonement we read [Lev. xvi.], ‘‘ After the 
death,’’ and from the Prophets [Is. lvii. 15], ‘‘ For thus hath said 
the High,’’ etc. And in the Min’ha prayer, we read about 
the laws of legal marriage [Lev. xviii.], and from the Prophets, 
Jonah. 

[R. Johanan said: In nearly every place where you find the 
might of the Holy One, blessed be He, you find also His mod- 
esty. This is written in the Pentateuch, and repeated in the 
Prophets, and mentioned a third time in the Hagiographa. In 
the Pentateuch [Deut. x. 17]: ‘‘ For the Lord your God is the 
God of gods, and the Lord of lords’’; and the next verse, 
** Who executeth justice for the fatherless and the widow.’’ It 
is repeated in the Prophets [Is. lvii. 15]: ‘‘ Thus hath said the 
High and Lofty One, who inhabiteth Eternity, whose name is 
Holy ’’; and the end of this verse is “‘ yet also with the contrite 
and humble in spirit.’’ The third time in Hagiographa [Ps. 
Ixviii. 5]: “‘ Extol him who rideth upon the heavens.’’ ‘‘ The 














TRACT MEGILLA. 83 


Everlasting is his name,’’ and the next verse is “‘ A father of 
the fatherless, and the judge of the widows.’’] 

The first festival day of the Feast of Tabernacles should be 
read the portion about this feast in Leviticus; and from the 
Prophets [Zechariah, xiv. 1]: ‘‘ Behold, a day is coming unto 
the Lord.’’ Now when we keep two days, we read on the sec- 
ond the same as on the first, but from the Prophets [I Kings, 
viii. 2]: ‘‘ And all the men of Israel assembled.’’ And on the 
remaining days of the festival we read about the sacrifices of the 
festival, and on the last day we read “‘ All your first-born,’’ to 
the end of the chapter, and from the Prophets [ibid. iv. 1]: 
‘“ And it came to pass when Solomon had finished’’; and on 
the morrow, “‘ And this is the blessing’’ [Deut. xxxiii.], and 
from the Prophets [I Kings, viii. 22]: ‘‘ And Solomon stood.”’ 

R. Huna said in the name of Rabh: On the Sabbath in the 
intermediate days of the festivals, whether Passover or that 
of Tabernacles, should be read Ex. xxxiii. 12; and from the 
Prophets [Ezek. xxxvii.], about the dry bones, and on Feast of 
Tabernacles [Ezek. xxxviii.], about Gog and Magog. During 
Hanuka the portion in Num. vii. about the offerings of the 
princes, and from Prophets [Zechariah, iii.], about the candle- 
sticks. And when it happens there are two Sabbaths in the 
eight days of Hanuka, on the first Sabbath the candlesticks of 
Zechariah, on the last Sabbath from I Kings, vii. 49, about the 
candlesticks of Solomon. On Purim [Ex. xvii.], “‘ And Amalek 
came,’’ and ‘‘On the beginnings of your months’’ [Num. xxviii.]. 
And if the first of the month falls on Sabbath, it should be read 
from Isaiah, lxvi. 23: ‘‘ And it shall come to pass that from one 
new moon to the other.’’ And when the first of the month falls 
on Sunday, the preceding Sabbath it should be read from the 
Prophets [I Sam. xx. 5]: ‘‘ And Jonathan said unto David, 
to-morrow is the new moon.”’ 

R. Huna said: If the first of the month Ab falls on Sabbath, 
it should be read from the Prophets in Is. i. 14: ‘‘ Your new 
moons and your appointed feasts my soul hateth.’’ On the 
ninth of Ab itself? What portion do we read from the Proph- 
ets? Said Rabh: Is. i. 21: ‘“ How became a whore the faithful 
city ?’’ Said Abayi: And now people have the usage to read 
from the Pentateuch [Deut. iv. 24]: ‘‘ When thou begettest chil- 
dren’’; and from the Prophets in Jerem. viii. 13: ‘‘ I will make 
an end of them.’’ 

‘‘ On the fast of the standing men.’’ Whence do we deduce 


88 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


this? (Rashi explains it that the question is what connection 
there is between the creation and these fasts.) Said R. Ami: 
If not the standing men, the heaven and earth would not abide; 
as is written [Jerem. xxxiii. 25]: ‘‘ If my covenant be not with 
day and night, I would not appoint the ordinances of heaven ~ 
and earth.’’ And it is also written [Gen. xvi. 8]: ‘‘ And he 
said, Lord God, whereby shall I know that I shall inherit it ?’’ 
Said Abraham before the Holy One, blessed be He: Creator of 
the Universe, perhaps if Israel will sin before Thee, Thou wilt 
destroy them as the generation at the time of the Flood and of 
the Dispersion of Babel. And He answered: Nay. Said Abra- 
ham: Whereby will I know it? And the Lord said: Take Me 
a heifer three years old (z.¢., the sacrifices will forgive their sins). 
Then Abraham said again: Creator of the Universe, this will be 
as long as the Temple exists, but what will be when the Temple 
will be destroyed? And the Lord answered: I have therefore 
ordained to them the order of the sacrifices, and every time they 
will read it, it will be considered by Me as if they had offered 
them, and I will forgive them all their sins. 

“© Without interruption.’’ Whence do we deduce this? Said 
R. Hyya bar Gamda in the name of R. Asi: Because it is writ- 
ten [Prov. iii, 11]: ‘‘ The correction of the Lord, my son, do 
not despise.’’ (And if there were interruption, it would seem as 
if the correction were disagreeable to them.) Resh Lakish, how- 
ever, said: That is because we do not pronounce a benediction 
over chastisement. What else shall hedo? Wehave learned ina 
Boraitha: He should begin a verse before the curses, and should 
end a verse after them. We have learned in a Boraitha: R. 
Simeon b. Elazar said: Ezra ordained that Israel should read 
the curses in Leviticus before Pentecost, and those in Deuter- 
onomy before New Year. Why so? Said Abayi, and accord- 
ing to others Resh Lakish: That the curses should end with the 
year. It is right of Deuteronomy, because then begins a new | 
year; but in Leviticus, before Pentecost, does Pentecost begin 
a new year? Yea, Pentecost is also a New Year’s day, as we 
have learned in Tract Rosh Hashana, on Pentecost is decided in 
Heaven about the fruit of the year. 

The rabbis taught: From the same place where they stop to 
read in the Pentateuch on Sabbath in the morning, they begin 
to read in the Min’ha prayer; and from the same place they 
should begin on Mondays and Thursdays and the next Sabbath. 
So is the decree of R. Meir. But R. Jehudah said: From the 














TRACT MEGILLA. 89 


same place where they had stopped the last Sabbath, they 
should begin at the Min’ha prayer, and Mondays and Thurs- 
days, and also the next Sabbath. Said R. Zera the Halakha 
prevails so. The rabbis taught: One shall open the Holy Scrolls 
and look on them, then pronounce the benediction, then read. 
R. Shephatia said in the name of R. Johanan: He who rolls 
together the Holy Scrolls, shall do it so that the sewn rolls 
should be in the middle, so that it be done easily. The same 
said again in the name of the same authority: They may be 
rolled together only from outside, but not from inside, so that 
the letters should not be seen outside. When one holds scrolls 
himself, and has to find in it something, he should not begin to 
roll away from his person, because one scroll might fall down, 
but he should roll them toward his person, so that they should 
remain on his knees. When he rolls them from both sides, he 
should begin with the side toward his person, because if from 
the other side, a man will be unable to see at a distance what is 
written in them, and it is a duty to let him see. 

The same says again: If ten men have read in the scrolls, 
the greatest of them should roll them together, for R. Joshuah 
b. Levi said: He who rolls them together, is rewarded as much 
as all of them together. 

He says again: Whence do we know that we may avail our- 
selves of a Heavenly voice? Because it is written [Is. xxx.]: 
‘‘ Thine ears shall hear a thing from behind them.’’ When is 
this the case ? When one hears a male voice in town, anda 
female voice in the country, and when it says: “‘ Yea, yea,’”’ or 
‘“ Nay, nay.’’ The same says again in the name of the same 
authority: Who reads without sweetness, and learns without a 
chant, of him says the verse in Ezekiel [xx. 25]: ‘‘ And I also 
have given unto them laws that are not good.’’ Abayi opposed. 
Shall I say, because he cannot make sweet his voice, the above 
verse should be applied to him? Therefore we must say as R. 
Mesharshia said elsewhere, that if two scholars are in one town, 
that contradict themselves in Halakha, to them is the above 
verse applied. 

Said R. Pornach in the name of R. Johanan: Who handled 
the Holy Scrolls, while naked,* wl/ be buried naked. Said R. 





* According to Rashi, it applies to the scrolls ; Mordchai Plungian, however, in 
his ‘‘Alphai Menashe,” interprets it in the name of Menashe of Ila that it applies 
to the man, which seems to be more correct, though he was persecuted for this 
interpretation. 


go THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Janai the son of R. Janai the Elder: It is better that the mantle 
of the Holy Scrolls should be inserted between the scrolls than 
vice versa. It is written [Lev. xxiii. 44]: ‘‘ And Moses spoke of 
the festivals of the Lord to the children of Israel’’; 2.2., he told 
them the merit of reading the portions of the Torah each in its 
time. The rabbis taught: Moses ordered to Israel they shall 
discuss and lecture on the subject of the day: the Halakhas of 
Passover on Passover, the Halakhas of Pentecost on Pentecost, 
and the Halakhas of Tabernacles on the Feast of Tabernacles. 


END OF TRACT MEGILLA. 





OR SEMA’HOTH (JOYS). 


fC) 
= 
a 
a4 
=_ 
O 
= 
e 
< 
i) 
a4 
O 
Nw 
=a 
be 
x 
~ 
s 
= 
WwW 
[aa] 
aa) 
e 
: 


bang Seals 
PEGS RN 





CONTENTS. 


Synopsis OF SUBJECTS OF VOL. VIII.—EsEL RABBATHI, 


CHAPTER 
I. ORDINANCES REGARDING ONE IN THE STRUGGLE OF 


DEATH, AND WHEN DEATH OCCURS IN A VIL- 
LAGE, . : A ; A : 4 5 , 


II. Wuat 1s CONSIDERED SUICIDE, . : 5 ; ‘ 


III, ORDINANCES CONCERNING THE BURIAL OF INFANTS 
AND MINORS UP TO THE AGE OF SEVEN YEARS, . 


IV. MouRNING OVER RELATIVES OF THE FIRST AND SEC- 
OND DEGREES, : ; : : : ‘ : 


V. REGULATION REGARDING LABOR DURING MOURNING, 
VI. Wuat A MOURNER MAY AND MAY NOT REap, 
VIl. Tue Tuirty Days’ PERiop or Mournine, ; ; 


VIII. THE EXAMINATION OF THE CORPSE; THE BURIAL OF 
A BRIDAL COUPLE ; THE SAGES THAT WERE EXE- 
CUTED BY THE GOVERNMENT, 


IX. THE RENDING OF GARMENTS OVER RELATIVES, PAR- 
ENTS, AND SCHOLARS, . , ‘ : 


X. WuHat AN ONEN MAY AND MAY NOT READ, ‘ 


XI. WHEN SEVERAL DEATHS OCCUR IN A TOWN AT THE 
SAME TIME WHO MUST BE BURIED FIrRsT, 


XII, From wuHat Day THE SEVEN, THIRTY Days’ Mourn- 
ING, ETC., BEGIN TO COUNT,. ; : ; ; 


XIII. THe REMOVAL FROM ONE GRAVE TO ANOTHER, : 


XIV. WHAT MAY AND WHAT MAY NOT BE DONE IN A 
CEMETERY AND ABOUT THE GRAVES OF FaAmI- 
LIES, A 5 F ‘ ‘ ‘ x 5 : 


PAGE 
iii 


48 


51 
57 


58 








SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


VOLUME VIII.—EBEL RABBATHI. 





CHAPTERS I. to III, One who is in agony of death is regarded as alive 
in all respects. How so? May the inhabitants of a village greet each 
other if a death occurs in their community ? How shall a suicide be buried, 
and who is considered such? Suicide of a minor. The burial of one judi- 
cially executed. That of one separating himself from the congregation, 
and of those stealing the duties. At what age are poor children to be 
- lamented, and at what age rich ones? The funeral meal. At what age is 
death considered Kareth (short life)? The days of sickness. The legend 
about the conversation of the Angel of Death with many of the Amo- 
raim, . ‘ : ; . ; ‘ 5 ‘ y ; I-II 


CHAPTERS IV. and V. Who are considered relatives of the first and 
second degrees? The regulations of an Omen (a mourner before the burial 
of the dead), and the period of Aninuth (see Commentary, p. 13). Over 
what relatives priests and high-priests may defile themselves. The decision 
of the sages as to the exhumation of a body for the purpose of examination 
as to age, and the reasons therefor. For what purposes the high-priest may 
or may not leave Palestine. Who is considered a Meth-Mitzvah (see Com- 
mentary, p.17),and what shall be done with him, and how-a Meth-Mitzvah 
was the incident which caused R. Aqiba to be counted among the wise. 
What work may and what may not be done by a mourner. What must be 
observed during the seven, the thirty days, and during the whole year of 
mourning. The exact periods for weeping, lamenting, not to calender 
clothes, and not to cut the hair, which must not be exceeded. Whence is it 
deduced that mourning lasts for seven days? When one mourning suc- 
ceeds another. The regulations concerning the ban and for how many days 
it shall continue, e i 12-23 


CHAPTERS VI. and VII. Whata mourner may read, what clothes he 
may wash, and if he may or may not wear shoes. When he may leave his 
house, and what seat he may occupy when in the prayer-house. What was 
done with mourners and others having trouble when entering the Temple. 
Ordinances in detail relating to calendering clothes, cutting the hair, etc., 
etc., etc., during the thirty days. What happened to Mar Samuel with his 
brother Pin’has during their mourning. The period after which it is allowed 
to remarry after the death of one’s wife, . ; ; ; : 23-30 


iv SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


CHAPTERS VIII. and IX. The different opinions about the canopy that 
is to be made for a dead bridal couple, and what eatables may be destroyed 
in their honor. The execution of Simeon, Ishmael, Agqiba, etc., and the 
lamentation over them by the sages, in detail. The @ fortiori conclusion, 
drawn from many biblical passages, how a man must avoid to come in con- 
tact with evil subjects. About what dead relatives must one rend his 
garments, and the rending of garments over scholars, chiefs of a college, etc. 
When the rent may be mended. The size of the rent. Ifa mourner travels 
from one place to another. The obligation of lowering the couches and 
when they may be placed in proper condition, The saving of the garment 
which was-upondthe-deady:: |: girs ai ral ee fier Use ke ok oe 


CHAPTERS X. to XII. From the performance of what religious duties a 
mourner is exempt. The funeral meal. The standing in line of the consol- 
ers. What may and what may not be discussed in the presence of a dead 
body. The burial of rich and poor people and that of scholars, and what 
happened to Aqiba when his son died. The difference in the burial and 

.lamentation of a man and awoman. The preference of way of a bridal 
procession over that of a funeral,and what happened to King Agrippa. The 
sweeping and the besprinkling of a mourner’s house. A recent and remote 
information. The different societies that were in Jerusalem for attending 
weddings or funerals, etc. The four sages that came to console R. Ishmael 
when his sons died, and what they said. When the consolers are permitted 
to speak consolation. About the burial of the bones of two dead bodies in 
one grave. The saying of R. Eliezer b. Zadok as to what his father com- 
manded him in regard to his burial, and what Abba Saul said in his will to 
his son. When a hearse is used. What Hanina b. Teradion did when his 
son was executed as a robber, . i ; ‘ ; ‘ : 45-57 


CHAPTERS XIII. and XIV. From what religious duties a gatherer of 
bones is exempt. The places in which bones and the Scriptures must be 
placed when being removed. When is it allowed to remove a corpse from 
one grave to another? If it is allowed to bury two corpses, or one corpse and 
bones of another corpse, in one grave. If benefit may be derived from a 
building over a vacant grave or from avacant coffin. How acemetery must 
not be considered vé/ely. If graves may be changed from one family to 
another. Is occupancy (Hazakah) considered with graves? The three 
different kinds of graves. A cemetery which surrounds the city on three 
sides. The seven standings and sittings after the burial. The ten goblets , 
of wine that the sages have ordered in the house of a mourner. What shall ' 
be said in the fourth meal benediction in the house of a mourner ? 57-62 














EBEL RABBATHI (GREAT MOURN- 
ING), OR SEMA’HOTH (JOYS). 





CHAPTER 1.' 


A. One in the struggle of death is to be regarded as living 
in all respects. He still binds the dependents to the law of 
Yibum,? and he exempts from the same.* He makes his de- 
pendents eat of heave-offerings,* and prevents them from eating 
it.5 He inherits and makes others inherit.6 When a limb ora 
piece of flesh is removed from him, it is regarded as of a living 
man.’ The blood of his sin-offering and transgression may be 
sprinkled until he dies.® 





EDITOR’S COMMENTARY. 


CHAPTER I. 


1 As the chapters are short, their contents will be found in the Synopsis. 

A. *If he is the only brother of him who died childless, the 
widow cannot marry again until he dies. And if it happened that 
she did marry in that time, the marriage is considered null and void. 
*If he is the only son of his father who died at that time, he is con- 
sidered as a living child, and to exempt the widow from Yibum or 
Halitzah. ‘* His wife or slave if he is a priest, also his mother if she 
was the daughter of a commoner. ‘If his wife was the daughter of 
a priest, and he a commoner [Lev. xxii. 12-14]. ‘For instance, if 
his mother dies at that time and leaves property to him, it is con- 
sidered his; so that when he dies his relatives on his mother’s side 
inherit from him, but not those on his father’s. See Nidah, 44a. 
"It is not a subject of defilement, to make him who touches it or 
the tent which contains it unclean, if it has not a certain quantity, 
as will be explained farther on. ° The blood of an offering can be 
sprinkled only when the offerer is alive, and has a substitute in the 
Temple. 


I 


2 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


B. His mouth must not be closed, nor his openings stopped. 
No metal vessel or anything which chills! must be put on his 
navel till he dies, as it is written [Eccl. xii. 6]: ‘‘ While the 
silver cord is not yet torn loose.”’ 

C. He must not be moved, nor put on sand or salt, until he 
dies.’ 

D. His eyes must not beclosed. Whoever touches or moves 
him is regarded as a shedder of blood.’ 

£. His relatives may not rend their clothes nor remove their 
shoes nor lament over him, nor may the coffin be brought into 
his room, till he dies. 

F. His death must not be announced, nor his deeds pro- 
claimed, until he dies; R. Jehudah, however, said: If he wasa 
wise man, the latter may be done.' 

G. Greetings must not be exchanged when there is a death 
in a village, but it may be done in a greater city. An infant cut 
or torn at birth, a miscarriage, or born alive at the eighth month, 
or born dead at the ninth—all the religious ceremonies do not 
apply to it. 

HT, The same is the case with an idolater or bondsman, never- 
theless they may exclaim over him: ‘‘ Woe, lion! lion! Woe, 
hero!’’! R. Jehudah said: (It may be said also:) Woe, trusted 
man, who lived by his labor! They said to him: If so, what is 
there left to say of the upright? He rejoined: If he was right- 
eous why should this not be said of him ?*? No consolation is 
needed (on the death of) male and female slaves. 

I. It happened when the female slave of R. Eliezer died, his 
disciples went to console him. When he saw them he went into 





B. * See Sabbath, p. 353. 

C. * As was the custom at that time. 

D. *¥For the reason, see ibid., Mishna and Gemara thereon; 
here, however, this is said in the name of R. Meir. 

/. * Not in his presence, but people may say among themselves: 
“* What a great loss we have in the death of the man who did so and 
so.’’ Some say even in his presence, because he is used to hear his 
praises, and will not be alarmed; but we do not find any basis for 
this assertion. 

#7. "If they were worthy of such a lamentation. *It seems to 
us that this is said of a bondman only, but not of an idolater, as an 
idolater, even if he was a Gentile, is called a sinner according to the 
Talmud, which declares that idolatry was prohibited to Noah for all 
nations. 





EBEL RABBATHI, OR SEMA’HOTH. 3 


the yard, and they followed him; he returned to the house, and 
they followed him. He then said to them: I thought that you 
might be scalded with lukewarm water, now I see that you can- 
not be scalded even with boiling. Have I not taught unto you: 
No consolation is needed (on the death of) slaves ? 

J. When Tebbi the slave of Rabban Gamaliel died, the latter 
accepted consolation. Said his disciples to him: Our master! 
hast thou not taught unto us that no consolation is needed on 
slaves? He rejoined: My slave Tebbi cannot be likened to 
other slaves; he was a righteous one. 

K. He also permitted him to lay Tephilin. Said his dis- 
ciples: Our master! hast thou not taught unto us that slaves 
are exempt from Tephilin ? And he made the same rejoinder. 

ZL. Slaves must not be distinguished as Father so and so, ‘or 
Mother so and so.1. The household of Rabban Gamaliel, how- 
ever, used the distinction of ‘‘ Father Tebbi’’ and ‘‘ Mother 
Tebbitha’’ to the above-named and his wife.? 

M. Ancestors must not be distinguished as the fathers of the 
nation (or the tribes), except the three Patriarchs; nor mothers 
of the nation, but the four mothers. 


CHAPTER II. 


A. A suicide must be buried without any ceremony. R. 
Ishmael said: It may be exclaimed: Alas, suicide! Alas, 
suicide! Said R. Aqiba to him: Leave him alone. Do not 
honor nor abuse him.! No rending, no removal of shoes, and 
no lamenting. They may, however, stand in line,” and say over 





Z. * The word Abba, which means “‘ Father,’’ was a title at that 
time, as ‘‘ Reverend’’ is now, or as the Catholics entitle their supe- 
riors of the Church and nunneries ‘‘ Father’’ and ‘‘ Mother.’’ ?In 
Midrash Rabbah [Lev. chap. xix.] is to be found Tebbitha, the 
female slave of Rabban Gamaliel, presumably Tebbi’s wife. 

M. * Sarah, Rebeccah, Rachel, and Leah, the wives of our patri- 
archs. See Berachoth. 


CHAPTER II. 


A. * With the saying that you lament him, you also blame him 
that he committed suicide. It is, therefore, better that nothing 
should be said. *When the mourners return from the burial, all 
those who accompanied them stand in two rows, through which the 


4 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


him the mourners’ benedictions, because it is for the honor of 
the living. This is the general rule: Whatever is for the honor 
of the living may be done; but everything which is not for their 
sake, it is not imperative for the congregation to do for such. 

B. Who is to be considered a suicide? If one ascended to 
the top of a tree or a roof, and he fell down and was killed,’ he 
must not be considered a suicide, unless he says previously: “‘ I 
am going to drop myself!’’ and immediately afterward it was 
observed that he did so; then it is to be considered a suicide, 
and he shall be buried without any religious ceremonies. 

C. When one is found hanging on a tree strangled, or lying 
on a sword killed, he is not to be considered a suicide, and noth- 
ing may be withheld from him. 

D. It happened to the son of Gornos in Lud, who ran away 
from school, that his father threatened him. Being afraid of his 
father, he drowned himself in a pit. When R. Tarphon was in- 
quired about him, he said: Nothing shall be withheld from him. 

£. It happened to a lad at the city of Bene-Berak, who 
broke a glass on the Sabbath, that his father threatened him. 
Being afraid of his father, he drowned himself in a pit. It was 
told to R. Agiba, and he said: Nothing shall be withheld from 
him.} 

F. From this the sages declared : One shall not threaten a child. 
He shall either punish him immediately, or he shall keep silence. 
Said R. Simeon b. Elazar: Lust, children, and women should 
be repulsed with the left, and attracted with the right hand.' 

G. Those who are put to death by the decision of a court 
must be buried without any ceremonies. Their brothers and 
relatives may come and greet the witnesses and the judges, to 
show them that the judgment is considered just, and that they 





mourners pass, and each one consoles them. So was the custom 
at that time, and in some congregations it is still extant. The 
mourners’ benediction (Tzidduk Hadin) is said in the cemetery just 
after the interment. 

&. * Although he said he would do so sometime previous. 

£. * According to Rashi, Mishna 4 is incomplete, and must read 
thus: But if the suicide was a minor, it is different. He said so, 
that the decisions of Aqiba and Tarphon should not contradict it. 

F. * To all these three, to which human beings are attracted nat- 
urally, it is advisable not to be subject, but at the same time, when 
he attracts them with the right, he shall try to repel them with the 
left when necessary. 








EBEL RABBATHI, OR SEMA’HOTH. 5 


have nothing against them; that they do not mourn for them 
loudly, but are sorry for them, as sorrow is only in the heart. 
Rabbi Nathan, however, said: There is no difference between 
silent sorrow and loud weeping.’ 

H. No funeral meal! must be prepared for them, as it is 
written [Lev. xix. 26]: ‘‘ Ye shall not eat upon the blood.’’? 

I. Whoever separates himself from the congregation, nobody 
shall have anything to do with him. And when he is dead, his 
brothers and other relatives may dress and wrap themselves in 
white, eat, drink, and rejoice that the enemy of the Place? is 
lost [Ps. cxxxix. 21]. This verse, with the following, is to be 
explained thus: Why do I hate them with the utmost hatred ? 
Because they have separated themselves from me, and become 
my enemies. 





G. *J.e., both are permitted or prohibited. 

#7, *It is customary that when the mourner returns from the 
cemetery his consolers bring with them food for the first meal, and 
in the ancient times they dined together with him. The custom of 
dining together was abolished because of the poor, who could not 
afford the outlay for it; so the costly shrouds were also prohib- 
ited, as it is explained farther on. But the bringing of food to the 
mourner is in vogue even to-day. The reference to the passage 
mentioned in the text means to say, you shall not dine with sucha 
mourner, whose death occurred for the crime of bloodshed (as the 
capital punishment by the court was only for bloodshed, as will be 
explained by us in Tract Sanhedrin). It is self-evident that the lit- 
eral translation of this passage does not mean so, but the sages took 
this passage as a support to many things. They take this passage 
elsewhere as a support that one must not eat before the morning 
prayers, and they explain it: ‘‘Ye shall not eat before ye have 
prayed for your blood’’; but they nevertheless use the language as 
if it would be so written. *The continuation of this Mishna will be 
found in Tract Sanhedrin in a Mishna in Chap. VI. 

7. *In many places the Talmud gives to the Lord the appella- 
tion *‘ Place,’’ for the reason which is explained elsewhere, that He, 
the Lord, is the place of the world (it means that He bears the 
entire world), but the world is not the place of Him (because He 
does not merely fill the world, but He also expands out of the 
world). Others translate it ‘‘ Omnipotent,’’ which needs no com- 
mentary. We will do the same in our further translations. We 
made an exception here, however, to explain the meaning of this 
term in the text. 





6 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


J. The same is the case with those who steal the duties, or 
steal from devoted things, they are considered as shedders of 
blood; and not merely that, but also as idolaters, adulterers, 
and intentional violators of the Sabbath.' 

XK. From those who are killed by the government, nothing 
may be withheld, nor from those who were drowned in the sea 
or a river, or were eaten by a wild beast. From what time 
must the day of the mourning for them be counted? Since the 
time that they have despaired of finding. If separate limbs are 
found, it cannot be counted till the head and the greater part of 
the body are found. R. Jehudah said: The backbone and the 
skull are considered as the greater part of the body. 

ZL. If a husband or wife, or parents, were crucified in the 
town, the wife, the husband, or the children shall not live in 
that town, except it be as large as Antioch, and even then they 
must remove to another part. Until what term are they not 
allowed to live there? Till the flesh is totally destroyed, and 
the bones cannot be recognized any longer. 


CHAPTER III. 


A. Aninfant a day old must be regarded by his parents as 
if he would be a bridegroom; and not merely a day old, but 
even if the head and the greater part of the body came out 
alive. The expression of “‘a day’’ is used by the sages because 
it is more usual. 

8. An infant dying at birth is interred attended by one 
woman and two men, and is carried in the hand. Abba Saul, 
however, said: By two women and one man. The sages ob- 





J. * Wetranslate here according to the corrections of Elias Wilna, 
as we follow his corrections throughout the tract. 

Z. *It refers to the barbarous times in which, when the govern- 
ment hanged a person, the body was never removed. We conclude 
this chapter here, as the following Mishna is taken in in Kethuboth, 
as the proper place. 


CHAPTER III. 


A. >See Nidah, 444, where it is explained that an infant even 
a day old must be regarded as a bridegroom, if someone kills it, and 
the same language is used here. 








EBEL RABBATHI, OR SEMA’HOTH. 7 


jected to him that one woman is allowed to be with two men 
in a separate place, but not vice versa. No line of consolers is 
formed, no mourners’ benediction is said, until it is thirty days 
old. From the age of thirty days till a twelvemonth it may be 
attended by men and women, and is carried in a case under the 
arm. From the age of one to three years it is attended by the 
same, with the addition that it may be carried in a case on the 
shoulder. R. Jehudah, however, said: If the father desires, 
a coffin may be brought to the cemetery to bury it in, even if it 
is not three years old. 

C. At the age of three it is carried ina hearse. R. Agqiba, 
however, said: If it is three years old, but looks like two, it is 
not carried in a hearse; but a hearse may be used for those who 
look like three even if they are less. Simeon the son of the 
brother of Azariah said: Anyone borne in a hearse, his praises 
may be proclaimed. R. Meir in the name of Elazar b. Azariah 
said: If when he was alive he used to play on the street and was 
known to the people, then they are obliged to attend, but not 
otherwise. R. Jehudah, however, said in the name of the same: 
Even if he was known only to his neighbors. 

D. Regarding lamentations, R. Meir in the name of R. Ish- 
mael said: The poor are lamented from the age of three, and 
the rich from the age of five; R. Jehudah, however, said in the 
name of the same: The poor from the age of five, and the rich 
from the age of six. R. Aqiba said: The poor from the age of 
six, and the rich from the age of seven. The poor are lamented 
the same as the rich, the rich as the children of the sages, and 
they as the princes.’ 

£. A child that was able to act for himself may be lamented 
for his own virtues; if he has none, for those of his parents; if his 
parents have no virtues, for those of his other relatives. A bride 
may be lamented either for the virtues of her father or father-in- 
law, as honors should be exaggerated and not diminished. No 
honor is to be invented, but may be added to the original. 

F In Jerusalem they used to say: ‘‘ Prepare good things, 
they shall be used defore thy hearse.’’ In Judah, however, they 





D. * Rashi explains this: Because the pain of the poor on the 
death of their children is much greater than that of the rich, as their 
children are their only joy, having no others. *It means that no 
distinction must be made from the rank of the parents, but from the 
corpse itself, as all Israel is alike in pedigree. 


8 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


used to say: ‘‘ They shall be used dehind thy hearse.’’ Because 
in Jerusalem the lamenters used to walk in front of the hearse, 
and proclaimed only the virtues which he possessed; and the 
people who were behind the hearse, even such as he did not. 
And in Judah the lamenters were behind the hearse, and they 
spoke only of the virtues which he possessed; and the people 
who were behind them did not repeat anything.' From the age 
of three to thirty, one is lamented as if he were a bridegroom ;* 
from thirty to forty he is lamented as a brother;* from forty to 
fifty as a father.‘ 

G. R. Simeon b. Elazar said: From the age of thirty to 
forty, if he has children, or if most others of his age have grand- 
children, he is lamented as a father; otherwise, as a brother.' 

HT. One dying under the age of fifty, it may yet be consid- 
ered as if he were under the punishment of Kareth (short life). 
When, however, he reaches the age of fifty-two, this was the 
death of Samuel the Prophet; at the age of sixty, this is the 
death mentioned in the Scriptures, as it is written [Job, v. 26]: 
‘‘ Thou wilt go in a ripe age unto the grave.’’ At seventy it is 
considered old age, as it is written [Psalms, xc. 10]: ‘‘ The days 
of our years in this life are seventy years.’’ At eighty it is con- 
sidered uncommon vigor, as it is written [ibid.]: ‘‘ And if by 
uncommon vigor they be eighty.’’ ‘‘ Above that age it is a 
life of affliction, and so said Barzillai the Gileadite to David,”’ 
[II Samuel, xix. 36]. 

Death after only one day of sickness is a death of wrath; at 
two days, it is a death of terror; at three days, a death of pest; 
at four and five days, a hastened death; at six days, it is the 
death mentioned in the Torah; at seven, it is a death of favor;' 
more than that, it is a death of suffering. 





F. ’ We have translated according to the corrections of Elias 
Wilna, and as Rashi explains it in Sabbath, 153a, old edition. *It 
means to say, as he was in the best vigor of his life, the lamentations 
were as great as if it had happened to a bridegroom standing under 
the canopy. ‘*It means that he was an active member of society, 
and his loss is felt by everybody. “Who was active so long that he 
was considered as a father. 

G. ‘One of the commentators supposes that at that time there 
were separate customs for a father, brother, etc. It seems to us, 
however, that our interpretation is right. ; 

#7, * As six days are enough for one to reconsider all he has done 
in his life and to make his will, leaving the seventh for the purpose 








et, ee 


EBEL RABBATHI, OR SEMA’HOTH. 9 


The rabbis taught :* One who dies suddenly, he is said to have 
died an abrupt death; if the death was preceded by one day’s 
sickness, it is a hastened death. R. Hananiah, however, said: 
The latter case is termed a plague-death, as it is written [Ezek. 
xxiv. 16]: “Son of man, behold, I will take away from thee the 
desire of thy eyes by a sudden death (plague)”’; and it is stated 
again [ibid. 18]: “And when I had spoken unto the people in the 
morning, my wife died at evening.” If it was preceded by a two 
days’ sickness, it is a hurried death; if by a three days’, it is a 
reproach; if by a four days’, a rebuke; but if preceded by a five 
days’ sickness, it is an ordinary death. [Said R. Hanin: From 
what biblical passage is this adduced? From (Deut. xxxi. 14): 
‘‘Hehn korvu yomechu lomuth” (Behold, thy days approach 
that thou must die). “ Hehn” means “one” in Greek; “korvu” 
(in the plural) is two; “yomechu” (in the plural) is also two; 
altogether five.] Death at the age of fifty is Kareth (cut off); 
at fifty-two, the age at which Samuel of Ramah died; at sixty, 
a death by Heaven.’ [Said Mar Zutra: Whence is this adduced ? 
From (Job, v. 26): “Thou wilt go in a ripe age, nb>3, unto the 
grave,” the numerical value of the letters of mb>3! being sixty.] 
Seventy is called an old age; eighty, an age of uncommon vigor, 
as it is written [Psalms, xc. 10]: “ And if by uncommon vigor 
they be eighty.” Rabba, however, said: “ From fifty to sixty it 
is Kareth; and the reason why this is not stated in the Boraitha 
is because of the honor of Samuel.” When R. Joseph arrived at 
the age of sixty, he gave an entertainment to the rabbis, for he 
said: “I have passed the age of Kareth.” Said Abayi to him: 
“Tt is true that the Master has passed the age of Kareth, but has 
then the Master already passed the day of Kareth?”’ And he 
answered him: “ Be content for the present with half.” R.Huna 
died suddenly, which caused the rabbis great worry. A couple 





of taking his leave from his family. Where, however, six days of 
sickness are mentioned in the Torah we cannot imagine, nor do we 
find it in any of the commentators. 

* All paragraphs beginning with, ‘‘ The rabbis taught,” or with italics, are 
transferred from Moed Katan (see there note, p. 27). The paragraphs not so begin- 
ning will be marked in the Commentary Gemara. 

* There are different penalties for crimes: Kareth; death by Heaven; and 
death by the court, which latter was in four different forms. 

* This Hebrew word aggregates sixty; namely, the first letter (from 
right to left) counts two, the second twenty, the third thirty, and 
the last eight. 





10 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


of sages of Hadaeb taught them: “It was stated (regarding a 
sudden death), only when the deceased has not reached the age 
of eighty ; but if he has, it is, on the contrary, considered a death 
caused by a kiss.” Rabha said: Longevity, fertility, and main- 
tenance do not depend on virtue but rather on fate, as is illus- 
trated by the case of Rabba and R. Hisda, both of whom were 
upright rabbis and both could bring down rain by their prayers, 
and still R. Hisda died at the age of ninety-two and Rabba at 
the age of forty. In the house of R. Hisda there were sixty 
marriages, while in that of Rabba there were sixty deaths. In 
the house of R. Hisda there was fine white bread in such an 
abundance that even the dogs did not care for it, while in that 
of Rabba there was not sufficient barley bread for human beings. 
Rabha further said: Three things I prayed Heaven to grant me. 
Two were granted, the third one not: the wisdom of R. Huna 
and the riches of R. Hisda were granted me, but the modesty of 
Rabba bar R. Huna was denied to me. R. Seorim (Amram), the 
brother of Rabha, was sitting at the bedside of Rabha when the 
latter was in his last agonies. Said Rabha to him: “Let the 
Master tell him (the angel of death) not to cause me any pain.” 
And he answered him: “ Is, then, the Master himself not a friend 
of him?” Rabha rejoined: “As my fate was already referred 
to him, he will not care for me any more.” R. Seorim then said 
to the sick: “I would like that the soul of the Master should 
appear before me.’’ When it was so, R. Seorim asked: “ Had 
the Master felt any pain?” (at the time of the separation of the 
soul from the body), and he answered: “It was as if pinched 
with the lancet.’’ Rabha was sitting at the bedside of R. Na’h- 
man when he was in his last agonies, and the latter said: “ Let 
the Master tell him (the angel of death) not to pain me.” And 
he said to him: “Is not the Master a prominent person?” (to 
tell him so himself). And he answered him: “Who is esteemed, 
or worthy, or who can contend (at such a moment)?”’ He then 
said to the dying: “ Let the Master’s soul appear before me.” 
When it was so, he asked him: “Had you pain?” And he 
answered: “It was as easy as to remove a hair from milk; and 
yet, if the Holy One, blessed be He, would command me to re- 
turn to the world I was in I would pray permission not to do it, 
for the fear (of the angel of death) is too great.” R. Elazar was 
eating Trumah (heave-offering) when the death angel appeared 
before him, and he said to him: “ You see that I am now eating 
Trumah, is it not sacred?” And the appropriate moment passed 








7s 


EBEL RABBATHI, OR SEMA’HOTH. II 


over. To R. Shesheth he presented himself in the market, and 
he said to him: “ Do you wish to take me when I am in the 
market, as if I were an animal? Come to my house.” When he 
presented himself to R. Ashi in the market, the latter said to 
him: “ Extend my time thirty days, so as to enable me to re- 
view my studies, as ye say: ‘Happy is the person who comes 
here possessed of his studies.’”” On the thirtieth day he ap- 
peared again, and R. Ashi said to him: “ Why such punctuality ?”’ 
And he answered him: “You interfere with Bar Nathan, as no 
regency must interfere with another, even as much as a hair 
(z.e., R. Nathan cannot become the head of the college so long as 
you are alive).” R.Hisda could not be overpowered (by the angel 
of death), for he kept on studying all the time, and the death angel 
climbed up and hid himself in a cedar in front of Rabha’s house. 
When the cedar broke down, R. Hisda discontinued his study 
for a moment and he was overpowered at that moment. R. 
Hyya was inaccessible (to the angel of death). One day he 
transformed himself into a mendicant, and knocked on the door 
and asked for a slice of bread. When R. Hyya handed him 
what he asked for, the angel said to him: ‘“ Does not the Mas- 
ter have mercy with a poor man? Why does the Master have 
no mercy with me? Iam the angel of death.” And as proof, 
he showed him the fire-rrod. R. Hyya then delivered up his 
soul to him. 

I. Said R. Hanina b. Antigonos: If an old man has eaten 
forbidden things, or intentionally violated the Sabbath, the pun- 
ishment of which is Kareth,' and he is over the age that short 
life should be applied to him, what will signify to us that his 
death was that of Kareth? Therefore we must consider that 
he who died after only three days of sickness, it is a death of 
Kareth; at four days, it is a hastened death, etc. Said R. 
Jehudah: The pious of ancient times have suffered of the sick- 
ness of the intestines two or three days before their death,? for 
the purpose of cleaning their bodies of all food and drink, that 
they should enter clean in the world to come, as it is written 
[Proverbs, xxvii. 21]: ‘‘ (As) the fining-pot is for silver, and the 
furnace for gold, so is a man (proved) according to his praise.’’ 





7. * Leviticus, vii. 25. * According to Elias Wilna’s corrections, 
and according to him, it is to be understood that R. Jehudah opposes 
R. Hanina b. Antigonos, and maintains that even a pious man may 
die in two or three days. The text, however, reads twenty days. 


12 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


CHAPTER IV. 


A. For relatives of the first degree—e.g., father, mother, 
son, daughter, brother, wife, and sister—a priest may defile him- 
self. R.Aqiba said: For those of the second degree’ he mourns 
and is prevented also from services, which he must not perform 
when his dead is not buried; but he must not defile himself. 

B. R. Simeon b. Elazar, however, said: He may defile him- 
self for his grandfather and his grandson, but the sages’ say: 
For whomsoever he is obliged to perform all the ceremonies of 
mourning, are to mourn with him, but not otherwise. If it was 
doubtful, however, whether the deceased was his brother or son, 
or not, he mourns and is considered an Orvan, but he must not 
defile himself. 

C. For his betrothed he must neither mourn nor defile him- 
self. The same is the case with his divorced wife, although he 
has children by her. 

The rabbis taught: Over all those of which it is written in 
the chapter relating to priests [Lev. xxi.], that a priest may 
defile himself on them, an ordinary person must mourn, and 
they are the following: wife, father and mother, brother and 
sister, son and daughter. To these were added: his brother 
and virgin sister by his mother, and his married sister either by 
his mother or by his father. And also over all their second 
degree of consanguinity. Such is the dictum of R. Agiba.. 
R. Simeon b. Elazar, however, holds that it extends only to his 
grandson and his grandfather. The sages, however, laid down the 





CHAPTER IV. 


A. * Grandfather, grandmother, grandson, etc. 

B. * The sages differ with R. Aqiba, who says: That for the 
second degree he must not mourn at all, and it is to be understood 
so: Whoever is obliged to perform all the mourning ceremonies, 
é.g., not to sit in a chair, not to put on the shoes, etc., which are 
customary for the first degree, then also the priest must mourn and 
defile himself; but for the second degree, for whom he is not allowed 
to defile himself, the mourning is also unnecessary for him. The 
case where mourning without defilement can be found is only when 
it is doubtful, the doubtfulness meaning when the woman who bore 
the child was suspected. 








EBEL RABBATHI, OR SEMA’HOTH. 13 


following rule: ‘‘ Over whom one is bound to mourn, with him 
he must mourn.’’! Does not the rule of the sages state the same 
thing stated by the first Tana? There is a difference as to 
those who are with him in the same house.? Rabh once said to 
Hyya his son, and so also said R. Huna to Rabba his son: “‘ In 
her (wife’s) presence observe mourning, but not in her absence.’’ 
Mar Ugqba’s brother-in-law died, and he was inclined to observe 
both the seven and the thirty days. When R. Huna came to him 
and found him mourning, he said : ‘‘ Dost thou desire to partake 
of the mourning-meal? Therule that one must observe mourn- 
ing out of respect for his wife, extends only to father-in-law 
and mother-in-law.’’ We have also so learned in a Boraitha: 
‘* Ameimar’s grandson died, and he rent his garment. When 
subsequently his son arrived he rent again in his presence, and 
when he afterwards recollected that he was seated at the time 
he rent, he arose and rent once more.’’ 

D. [What is the term for Aninuth?? From the time of 
death till the interment, such is the dictum of R. Meir. The 
sages, however, say: One day only.] If a high-priest has mar- 
ried a widow against the written Law; or an ordinary priest has 
married a divorced woman, or one who has performed Halitzah, 
he may mourn for her, and has to keep the term of Aninuth, 
but must not defile himself. 





1 Z.g., for a father for whom one is bound to mourn, if the father mourns for his 
father, the son may mourn with him. The same is the case with a son for whom 
the father is bound to mourn, if the son mourns for his son the father mourns with 
him. (Rashi.) 

*It means that according to the sages the grandfather or the grandson is bound 
to mourn only when the father or the son is mourning in the house. (Rashi.) 

D. * The term ‘‘Onen”’ in the Talmud means one of the rela- 
tives of the deceased, just after he departed and before the burial. 
It is derived from Genesis [xxxv. 18]: ‘‘ Ben Oni.’’ (See Leeser’s 
translation, who did not translate Ben Oni, but inserted the words 
as written. He nevertheless translates Deut. xxvi. 14: ‘‘I have not 
eaten thereof in my mourning,’’ the Hebrew term for which is the 
same, which is surprising.) The law of an Onen is, that only the 
high-priest may perform his service when a death occurs in his 
family; an ordinary priest, however, must not; and if he does, he 
violates the law. Hence is the question here, how long the term 
of Aninuth must be kept. According to R. Meir, even if there are 
several days from death to interment, the entire law of it must be 
observed; but according to the sages only one day, as it is explained 
elsewhere—from morning till evening. 


14 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


E. For his sister, if she is betrothed,’ R. Meir and R. Jehu- 
dah say he may defile himself. R. Jose and R. Simeon hold 
that he must not.’ 

F. If he has married a virgin but without virginity,! accord- 
ing to R. Jose and R. Meir he defiles, and according to R. 
Simeon he may not. If he has married a forced? or a seduced 
woman, all agree that he may not. If he married a vigaros,' all 
agree that he may. 

G. The general rule which R. Simeon laid down is: For 
every woman who was fit for the high-priest when she was yet 
a virgin he may defile himself, but not otherwise. 

HT. For all those of whom it was declared that a priest may 
defile himself, it is not meant as a permission but as an obliga- 
tion. So also said R. Aqgiba; R. Ishmael, however, said: It is 
meant as a permission. 

I. It happened to Joseph the priest that his wife died on the 
eve of Passover, and he was reluctant to defile himself, so his 
colleagues pushed him on her and defiled him against his will, 
saying: It is not a permission but an obligation. 

/. Until what time may he defile himself? R. Meir said: 
That whole day; R. Jose said: Until three days; R. Jehudah 
in the name of R. Tarphon says: Until the grave is closed. 

K. It is related that when R. Simeon b. Jehozadok died 
at Lud, his brother Johanan came from Galilee to defile- 
himself with him, after the grave was already closed. When 
the sages were asked about it they decided: He must not defile 
himself; however, the grave may be opened to enable him to 
see him. 

L. It happened that a youth died and left his property to 
strangers, and left out his family. His relatives complained, 





£. * The high-priest. See Lev. xxi. 3. When she, however, is 
not married, but betrothed; hence the difference of opinion. * The 
names are corrected according to Tract Jebamoth, p. 60. 

f. * Without virginity—through sickness, or she has lost it 
through something else; and according to the sages, the high-priest 
was not allowed to marry one who had lost her virginity, whatever 
the reason. * Forced—Deut. xxii. 28. ° Vigaros, also without vir- 
ginity, but only through age; therefore all agree that in marrying 
her he does not commit any transgression, as he himself could not 
know it. 

H. * See Elias Wilna. 





EBEL RABBATHI, OR SEMA’HOTH. 15 


and demanded an examination.! When the sages were asked, 
they decided not to do so, because as soon as the grave is closed 
the corpse must not be moved. According to others: As soon 
as one dies, his hair is changed.’ 

M. An ordinary priest who is defiling himself with relatives 
must not do the same with a stranger, even at the same time, in 
case the stranger has sufficient attendants; but if he has not he 
may defile himself, and afterward retire to an undefiled place. 
The same is the case when he begins, and others come to relieve 
him. 

JV. When there were two roads, one short but unclean and 
the other long but clean, if the people went on the long one he 
should accompany them, and if the people took the short road 
he should go with them, for the honor of the people. 

O. If he was engaged in burying his dead, so long as he is in 
the grave he may receive from strangers for burial, but if he was 
out he must not return. 

P. If he has defiled himself on the same day, R. Tarphon 
makes him culpable to a sin-offering, and R. Aqiba makes him 
free. All agree, however, that he is culpable when he does so 
on the morrow, because he has added one more day to be 
unclean, as he must count seven days after the last defilement. 

Q. A priest may defile himself for relatives even if they are 
not fit for the priesthood; e¢.g., for his son, daughter,! brother 
or sister, begotten by a temple-servant or bastard, except for 
those begotten by a slave or a Gentile.” 

Rk. A high-priest who defiles himself with the dead, or bares 
his head, or rends his garments, is liable to the punishment of 
stripes. 

S. For all uncleanness for which a Nazarite must shave off 
his hair, he is liable to stripes; otherwise he is not. 

T. A high-priest who enters a cemetery is liable to stripes. 





ZL. ‘If he was of age to make a will. “It is difficult to under- 
stand the real meaning of it. It seems to us that it means that the 
examination of the hair could decide nothing, as it could have grown 
after the death. 

Q. * If they were born by a woman whom he married unlawfully. 
* According to the Talmud, an illegitimate child begotten by parents 
of two different creeds without being married, must be considered 
according to the creed of the mother; hence they are not his chil- 
dren, 





16 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


U. If he enters the yard of a cemetery, or if he goes outside 
of Palestine, he is liable to chastisement (rabbinically). 

V. If he enters a field where there is a lost grave, he is not 
culpable till he traverses every bit of it. 

W. A priest may defile himself by going outside of Palestine 
to attend a civil or criminal court; to sanctify the month; to 
intercalate the year, and to save his field from the idolaters. 
He may bring a complaint and sign it in their courts; however, 
he must first make a declaration that he is going for this purpose. 

X. He may also leave Palestine for the purpose of studying 
the Law, or to get married. Said R. Jehudah: He may do the 
former when there is nobody in the place to learn from; other- 
wise he may not. R. Jose, however, said: Even if there is one 
to learn from he may do so, because not everyone can teach. 
It happened to Joseph the priest that he went to his master to 
study the Law; he went outside of Palestine to R. Jose in 
Zaidin. 

Y. A priest may defile himself with a piece of bone of his 
father’s body, even if it was as large as a grain of barley; R. 
Jehudah, however, said: He must not. A priest must not defile 
himself with a limb cut off a living body, be it even that of his 
father.’ 

Z. It happened to Joseph Parkass that he had an abscess on 
his foot, and the surgeon came to cut it off. He said to him: 
If thou wilt leave of it a bit of the size of a hair, let me know. 
When the surgeon told him that he did so, he summoned his 
son Nehemiah and said: My son, till here thou art obliged to 
attend me, but no farther. For the sages said: One must not 
defile himself for a limb cut off a living body, be it even that of 
his father. When the sages heard of it, they said: The follow- 
ing passage: ‘* My life is in my hand continually, yet thy Law 
do I not forget’’ [Ps. cxix. 109], applies to him; and also: 
*“ There is many a righteous man that perisheth in his righteous- 
ness’’ [Prov. vii. 15]. 

AA. If he was on the road and he found a Meth-Mitzvah,' 





Y. * The law is, if a whole limb was separated from a living 
body it is a subject of defilement; but if flesh was separated from 
that limb, even if it was more than the size of an olive, it is not. 
However, when the limb was separated from a corpse, and flesh 
separated from it the size of an olive, it defiles. 

AA.’ This expression is used in the whole Talmud about one 
who died without relatives, or if he died somewhere far from them,. 





EBEL RABBATHI, OR SEMA’HOTH. 17 


he is obliged to attend to it. What is to be considered such? 
If he would call for help and his cry could not be heard in the 
nearest town; but when it is heard, it is not considered as such 
(and he must not defile himself). 

BB. It is always considered a Meth-Mitzvah unless there are 
sufficient people to attend to its funeral. 

CC. If there was a high-priest and a Nazarite, the high-priest 
shall defile himself but not the Nazarite, according to R. Eliezer; 
for the latter must bring an offer for his defilement, and the 
former not. The sages, however, say: Rather let the Nazarite 
bring a hundred offers than cause defilement even to an ordinary 
priest; because the sanctification of the priest is from birth and 
forever, and the Nazarite’s is only temporary. 

DD. All agree that if there was an anointed high-priest and 
an unanointed one who is recognized only by his many gar- 
ments,' the latter must defile himself and not the former; when 
there was the latter and an overseer, or an overseer and an ex- 
overseer, or an ex-overseer and a priest anointed for the war, or 
he and a common priest, or a common priest and a Levite, or 
he and an Israelite, the second of each pair always must defile 
himself but not the first. If both are equals, the quickest of the 
two must do so; and if both are quick, the one that expresses 
the desire shall do so. 

EE, If it was found between a ploughed and an abandoned 
field, it shall be buried in the latter; between a ploughed anda 
sown field, it shall be buried in the former; between a sown field 
and an orchard, or an orchard and a field in which persea grows, 





or in a lonely place. ‘‘Meth’’ means a corpse, ‘‘ Mitzvah’’ means 
a commandment, and together they express: A corpse which any- 
body who finds is commanded to attend to its burial. 

DD. * There is a tradition that in the time of King Josiah the oil 
of anointment made by Moses was concealed, and from that time 
the ascent of a high-priest was made only with his prescribed gar- 
ments, and in the Talmud such a high-priest was called by the name 
of ‘‘ who was known by his many garments.’’ Hence if it happened 
that an anointed ex-high-priest were in company with a high-priest 
who was elected after the oil of anointment was concealed, the latter, 
though he is a high-priest, must defile himself, because his degree 
in sanctification is considered lower than that of the former; and 
so is it with all the pairs—the second is lower in sanctification than 
the first. 


18 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


it shall be buried in the former. If both places are equal in 
value, it shall be buried in the nearest one; and if they are equal 
in distance, it can be buried wherever desirable. 

FF. Said R. Aqiba: ‘‘ The following incident was the com- 
mencement of my reward to be counted among the wise. I 
once arose early and found a slain body. I burdened myself 
with it for three legal limits of the Sabbath, until I brought it 
to a cemetery, and I buried it. When I related this to the 
sages, they told me that my every step was considered as if I had 
shed blood.t Whereupon I drew the following a fortiori con- — 
clusion: When, having in view to perform a meritorious deed, 
I have transgressed so much, how much the more would I have 
sinned if I had had no such intention!’’ Whenever R. Agiba 
was reminded of this incident he said: This was the commence- 
ment of my reward.? 


CHAPTER V. 


A. No work must be done by a mourner on all the seven 
days after the burial; nor by his children, his servants, or his 
cattle. As he and they all are not allowed, so are others not 
allowed to do any work for him. 

The rabbis taught: A mourner is prohibited to do any work 
during the first three days, even the indigent who lives on charity ; 
thenceforward he may do it privately; and the housewife may 
spin with her spindle. 

The rabbis taught: A mourner must not visit another 
mourner during the first three days ; thenceforth he may, but he 
must not sit among the condolers, but among those who are being 
condoled. 

The rabbis taught: A mourner is prohibited the first three 
days from greeting others; from the third to the seventh he may 
only answer a greeting ; thenceforward he may greet and answer 
as usual. When the sons of R. Aqibadied, an enormous crowd 
flocked to the funeral. R. Aqiba ascended the rostrum, and ad- 
_ dressed the people: “ Brothers in Israel, listen to my words: It 
is not because of merit or station of mine that ye appear here, for 





FF, * Because the law is that it must be buried on the place 
where it is found. */.e., From the answer of the sages he learned 
that he knew nothing ie the Law, and he began to study until he 
reached his eminence. 





EBEL RABBATHI, OR SEMA’HOTH. 19 


assuredly there are my superiors in this city. Oh, your reward 
will be great. Ye have done homage to the Law; your presence 
would suffice to console me, even if I had buried two bride- 
grooms; ye appeared here because you thought to yourselves 
[Psalms, xxxvii. 31]: ‘The law of his God is in his heart.’” 
(Hence we see that it is permitted to greet even within the first 
three days?) Where the honor of the public is concerned the case 
is different. 

“ From the third to the seventh day he may answer, but not 
greet.’ There is a contradiction from the following Boraitha: One 
who meets his friend who is in mourning, if within twelve months 
he may speak to him words of consolation, but must not greet 
him ; if after twelve months, he may greet him, but not speak to 
him words of consolation, unless indirectly. R. Meir said: To 
what may the case of one speaking to his friend, a mourner, words 
of consolation after twelve months be compared? To one whose 
foot was dislocated, and after having it cured, met a physician 
who said to him: “ Come with me and I will dislocate it again, 
and cure it in order to prove to you the efficiency of my drugs”? 
This presents no difficulty. This Boraitha relates to mourning 
over father or mother; the former statement relates to mourning 
over other relatives. But have we not learned in another Borai- 
tha that he may speak to him words of consolation indirectly ? 
Our Boraitha may also be explained in the same sense; viz., “ He 
shall not speak to him words of consolation directly.” 

The rabbis taught: A mourner, during the first three days, if 
he arrives from a place not distant, may adopt the same compu- 
tation of the time as the local mourners, but if he arrives from a 
distant place he must have his own computation; thenceforth, 
if he even arrives from a place not distant, he must have his own 
computation. R. Simeon, however, said: “ Even if he arrived 
on the seventh day, if only from a near-by place, he may adopt 
the computation of the local mourners.’’ The Master said above: 
“The first three days, one who arrives from a near-by place,” 
etc. Said R. Hyya bar Abba in the name of R. Johanan: “ This 
is the case only where the eldest of the family is at home at the 
time.” The schoolmen propounded a question: “ How is it if 
the eldest of the family has gone to the cemetery?” Come and 
hear: R. Hyya bar Abba said inthe name of R. Johanan: “ Even 
if the eldest of the house has gone to the cemetery, he may com- 
pute with them (the local mourners).” But have we not learned in 
another Boraitha that he must have his own computation? This 





20 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


presents no difficulty: One case is when he arrived within the 
first three days, and the other when he arrived after the first 
three days. As Rabh said tothe inhabitants of Zalpuni: “Those 
who arrive within the first three days may compute with you; 
those who do not, must compute for themselves.” Rabha said to 
the inhabitants of M’huza: “You who do not follow the coffin 
(to the cemetery, but only as far as the town-gate) may compute 
(the mourning) from the minute you turn your faces away from 
the town-gate.” 

‘The Boraitha states: R. Simeon said, etc. Said R. Hyya 
bar Gamda in the name of Joseph b. Saul, quoting Rabbi: “‘ The 
case is only when he arrived before the condolers departed.’’ 

*It is written [Jerem. xxii. 10]: ‘‘ Weep not for the dead and 
do not bemoan him.’’ Weep not—that is, not more than suffi- 
cient; and do not bemoan him—that is, not more than pre- 
scribed. Howso? During the first three days—weeping; the 
seven—lamentation; during the thirty days—not to calender 
clothes and cut the hair. After that period the Holy One, 
blessed be He, says: ‘‘ Be not more merciful than I am.’’ It is 
written [ibid., ibid.]: ‘‘ Weep sorely for him that goeth away.”’ 
Said R. Jehudah: ‘‘ This means one who goeth away childless.’’ 
R. Joshua b. Levi had never gone to console a mourner unless 
the deceased died childless, for it is written [ibid., ibid.]: 
** Weep sorely for the one that goeth away, for he shall never 
return any more, and see the land of his birth.’’ R. Levi said: 
‘“ A mourner the first three days must imagine to himself as if a 
sword is placed between his shoulders; between the third and 
seventh day, as if it is opposite him in a corner; from that day 
on, as if it passes in front of him in the street.’’® 

‘“* The bier of a woman must at no time be set there,’’ etc. 
R. Ami said: “‘ For what purpose was the death of Miriam 
stated closely following the law of the red cow? To teach that 
as the red cow atoned for sin, so also does the death of the right- 
eous,’’ Said R. Elazar: ‘‘ For the same purpose was the death 
of Aaron closely written to the description of the priests’ garb; 
viz., as the priests in their garb atoned for the sins, so also does 
the death of the righteous.”’ 





CHAPTER V. 


A. * Gemara from Moed Katan. * Gemara from Moed Katan. 
® This illustrates the different degrees in which it must be borne in mind. 





EBEL RABBATHI, OR SEMA’HOTH. 2i 


B. It is permitted for others to do work involving things 
perishable; ¢e.g., his grain may be garnered and thrashed, his 
tubs may be scoured, and if his olives are turned, R. Jehudah 
says he may put the first press-block on, etc. 

The rabbis taught: The following things are prohibited to a 
mourner: labor, washing, anointing, sexual intercourse, wearing 
shoes, reading the Law, the Prophets, the Hagiographa, study- 
ing the Mishna, Midrash, Halakha, Talmud, and Agada; but if, 
however, the public require his services, he need not restrain 
himself. As it happened, the son of R. Jose died in Sepphoris, 
and the latter notwithstanding came to college and lectured the 
whole day long. Rabba bar bar Hana was once in mourning, 
and he was inclined not to go out to deliver his usual lecture. 
Said R. Hanina to him: ‘‘ If the public requires one’s services, 
he need not restrain himself.’’ He then wanted to employ an 
interpreter. Said Rabh to him: ‘‘ We learned in a Boraitha: 
‘But he should not employ an interpreter.’’’ How, then, shall 
he do it? As we have learned in the following Boraitha: It 
happened that the son of R. Jehudah bar Ilai died, and the 
latter came to college followed by R. Hanania b. Akabia, who 
took a seat at his side. He (R. Jehudah bar Ilai) whispered 
(the lecture) to R. Hanania b. Akabia, and the latter to the 
interpreter, and the interpreter announced it aloud to the public. 

The rabbis taught: A mourner must not wear phylacteries 
during the first three days, but from and including the third 
day he is allowed to do so, and need not remove them on the 
arrival of new persons. Such is the dictum of R. Eliezer. R. 
Jehudah, however, said that he must not wear them only dur- 
ing the first two days, but from and including the second day 
he is allowed; but on the arrival of new persons he must remove 
them. 

R. Hyya bar Abba, R. Ami, and R. Itz’hak of Naph’ha 
were sitting in the cottage of R. Itz’hak b. Elazar, and a state- 
ment resulted: ‘‘ Whence is it: deduced that mourning lasts for 
seven days? It is written [Amos, viii. 10]: ‘ And I will change 
your feasts into mourning.’ As the feast lasts for seven days, 
so does also mourning.’’ But perhaps Pentecost is meant, 
which lasts only for one day? The latter one is applied accord- 
ing to Resh Lakish; for Resh Lakish said in the name of R. 
Jehudah the Second: Whence do we know that remote informa- 
tion (of the occurrence of a death in the family) makes mourning 
customary for one day only? From the passage [ibid., ibid.]: 





22 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


‘* And I will change your feasts into mourning.’’ And we find 
one festival which lasts for one day only. 

C. 1If he was the only baker in town, he may do his work 
privately for the sake of the people. 

D. If one was cutting another’s hair, or was having his hair 
cut, and he was told that his father was dead, he might finish it. 
Workingmen who receive work from a mourner are forbidden to 
do this work at his house, but they are allowed to do it at theirs. 
R. Simeon b. Jo’hai said: A day laborer is forbidden in any 
case. Contract work may not be done on his premises, but it 
may on theirs. Work on anything attached to the ground must 
not be done in either case, and work to be done in another city 
is allowed in either case. 

£. When one mourning succeeds another, he may cut his 
hair with a knife but not with shears. If his clothes are dirty, 
he may wash them in cold water but not in feet-water.1 A 
mourner and one who is under the ban, when on the road, are 
allowed to wear sandals; however, they must remove them as 
soon as they reach the town. So is the law also for the oth of 
Abh, or a general fast-day. 

2 It is certain that a mourner must not cut his hair, for the Mer- 
ciful One expressly directed the sons of Aaron [ibid. x. 6]: “ The 
hair of your head you shall zot¢ let grow long”; hence the case is 
not so with other mourners. The question, however, is, whether 
those who are under the ban, and lepers, may cut their hair? 
Come and hear: Those who are under the ban, and those 
afflicted with leprosy, are prohibited from cutting their hair and 
washing (their clothes). One who was under the ban and died in 
such a state, the Beth Din stone his coffin. Said R. Jehudah: 
“It does not mean a heap of stones, as was the case with Achan 
[Josh. vii. 26], but it means that the Beth Din places a big stone 
on his coffin, to teach that whoever dies while under the ban, his 
coffin is stoned. 

8’ A mourner must wrap up his head, for the Merciful One 





C. * For former Mishnas, see Moed Katan, pp. 19-20. 

£. ‘In Tract Krithath, where it speaks of the preparation of the 
spices for the incense, the Gemara says: To make it stronger—mei 
raglayim ; literally, ‘‘ feet-water (wine, according to some commen- 
tators) would be good for it’’; but this must not be brought into 
the Temple court. The same term is found in Nidah, 614, in the 
Mishna, among the spices which remove stains. *Gemara from 
Moed Katan. * Gemara from Moed Katan. 





EBEL RABBATHI, OR SEMA’HOTH. 23 


directed Ezekiel [Ezek. xxiv. 17]: “ And cover zo¢ thyself to thy 
upper lip.”” Hence, others must cover. Howis it, however, with 
one who is under the ban? Said R. Joseph: Come and hear 
(Taanith): “ And they wrapped up their heads and sat as if they 
were under the ban, or mourners, until they were commiserated 
by Heaven.” Said Abayito him: “ Perhaps they have done that, 
because they have considered themselves as put under the ban by 
Heaven, in which case it is very rigorous.’”’ What is the law in 
regard to a leper? Come and hear: It is written [Lev. xiii. 45]: 
“ And he shall cover himself up to his upper lip.” Hence we see 
that wrapping up is necessary. A mourner must not wear phylac- 
teries, for Ezekiel was commanded [ Ezek. xxiv. 17] to put them 
on.‘ Hence we must say that others must not. But the ques- 
tion is as to one who is under the ban, in regard to phylacteries ?5 
This question was not decided. It is certain that a mourner 
must not greet any one, as Ezekiel was commanded [ibid.]: 
“Sigh in silence.” But how is the case with one who is under 
the ban? Said R. Joseph: Come and hear (Taanith, ibid.): 
“And to greet one another as if they were rebuked from 
Heaven.” Said Abayi to him: “ Perhaps this case is different, 
because it is very strict.” 

F. No ban is for less than thirty days, and no rebuke is for 
less than seven days. 

G. Said Rabban Gamaliel: He to whom the court has 
stretched out its hand, although he was again befriended, will 
not leave this world peaceably. 


CHAPTER VI. 


A. A mourner must not read the Pentateuch, Prophets, and 
Hagiographa. He is also not allowed to study Mishna, Talmud, 
Halakha, and Hagadah. He is also not allowed to wash, to 
anoint, to wear shoes, or to have sexual intercourse with his wife. 
He must cover his head and lower his couch. Rabban Gamaliel 
washed himself when his wife died (see Mishna Berachoth, 166). 

1A mourner must not study the Law, because the Merciful 





*The Talmud explains this passage to refer to the phylacteries. 
* See our ‘‘ Phylacteries Ritual,” pp. 49 and 55. 


CHAPTER VI. 


A. * Gemara from Moed Katan. 





—_—— 


24 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


One commanded Ezekiel: “Sigh in silence’’ [ibid.]. But how | 
is it with one who is under the ban? Said R. Joseph: Come and 
hear: We have learned: “One who is put under the ban may 
study for himself and also with others; he may be hired and he 
may hire others. But the case is otherwise with one who was 
excommunicated ; the latter may, however, study for himself in 
order not to discontinue his studies. He may also establish for 
himself a small store in order to earn a living.” Rabh said: 
“ He may sell water in the market of Araboth.” 

* A mourner must not wash his clothes, as it is written [II Sam. 
xiv. 2}: “Then sent Joab to Thekoa, and he fetched thence a 
wise woman, and said to her,” etc., “and anoint thyself not with 
oil; but be as a woman that hath these many days been mourn- 
ing for the dead.’”’ What is the case with those under the ban? 
Come and hear: “ Those who are under the ban are prohibited 
from cutting their hair and washing their clothes.” Infer here- 
from. A mourner must have his garment rent, because the Mer- 
ciful One commanded the sons of Aaron [Lev. x. 6]: “And 
your garments you shall zof rend’’; hence others must. A 
mourner must lower his couch (place the mattress near or on the 
floor), as Bar Qappara taught: “(God said) I had placed my image 
among them, and for their sins I upset it (decreed death). Let 
them now lower their beds.” A mourner must not work, for it 
is written [Amos, viii. 10]: “And I will change your feasts into 
mourning.” As on the feast it is prohibited to do any work, so 
also is the case with the mourner. May one who is under the 
ban work? Said R. Joseph: Comeand hear (Taanith): “ When 
it was stated that it is prohibited to do work, it referred only to 
the day-time but not to the evening; and the same is the case 
with one who is under the ban.” A mourner must not wash 
himself, as it is written [II Sam. xiv. 2]: “ And anoint thyself 
not with oil”; and anointing includes also washing. 

8’ And the Halakha prevails that a mourner must not bathe 
his entire body in either warm or cold water for seven days, but 
he may bathe his face, hands, and feet with cold water but not 
with warm. To anoint himself ever so little is prohibited, how- 
ever, for a mourner; but he may do so for the purpose of remov- 
ing the dirt from a certain part of his body. 

4A mourner must not wear shoes, because Ezekiel was com- 





? Gemara from Moed Katan. * Transferred from Taanith. ‘* Ge- 
mara from Moed Katan. 





EBEL RABBATHI, OR SEMA’HOTH. 25 


manded [Ezek. xxiv. 17]: “And the shoes put on thy feet.” 
Hence others must not. A mourner must have no intercourse 
with his wife, as it is written [II Sam. xii. 24]: “And David 
comforted Bath Sheba, and he went in unto her, and lay with 
her.” Hence, before comforting it is prohibited. 

On the first three days if a mourner is greeted he shall say: 
‘‘T am a mourner.’’ However, from the fourth day onward he 
may answer half-heartedly. 

B. When the death occurs in the same city, he must not 
accompany the others on the first two days; on the third he , 
_ may go out and stand in the line for the purpose of being con- 
soled, but he must not console others. All this is only when 
there are sufficient pall-bearers and burial attendants; otherwise 
he must accompany the others even on the first day. 

The rabbis taught: ‘“ A mourner on the first Sabbath ! must 
be confined to his house. On the second he may leave the 
house, but he may not occupy his usual seat (in the prayer- 
house); on the third he may occupy his usual seat, but he must 
refrain from conversation; and on the fourth Sabbath he is as 
any other person.’’ R. Jehudah said: ‘‘ As to the first Sab- 
bath, it was not necessary at all to state that he must be con- 
fined to the house, for it is self-evident, because all come to 
comfort him on that day. But the above order begins on the 
second Sabbath; viz., ‘On the second he must be confined to 
his house,’ etc., and only on the fifth Sabbath he is as any other 
person.”’ 

C. On the first and second days the mourner must not enter 
the Temple mountain; on the third, however, he is allowed to 
enter, but must go around to the left. The following must 
enter to the left: A mourner, one who is under the ban, one 
who has a sick person in his house, and one who has sustained 
aloss. ‘*‘ Why do you enter to the left ?’’ (the people standing 
about ask him). ‘‘ Because I am a mourner!’’ And they 
rejoin: ‘‘ The One who rests in this house may console thee!’’ 
And if he says: ‘‘ Because I am in ban!”’ they rejoin: ‘‘ The 
One who rests in this house may soften their hearts and they 
will befriend thee.’’ So says R. Meir. Said R. Jose to him: 
If so, you seem to insinuate that they have not judged him 
rightly ? But they rejoin thus: ‘‘ The One who rests in this 





B. *It means the first week, etc., even when he goes to prayer- 
house in the week-days. 


26 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


house, will soften thy heart, that thou mayest listen to their 
advice, and they will again befriend thee.’’ To the one who 
had a sick person in his home they rejoined: ‘‘ The One whe 
rests in this house shall have mercy upon him!’’ and if the sick 
was his only son they should pray: “‘ Shall have mercy upon 
him immediately!’’ 

D. It happened to a woman whose daughter fell ill, that she 
ascended the Temple mount, turned to the left, and did not stir 
from there till she was told that her child had recovered. 

£. To one who has sustained a loss they say: ‘‘ The One 
who rests in this house will soften the heart of the finder, and 
he will return it to thee immediately!’’ It happened to Elazar b. 
Hananiah b. Hezekiah b. Gorion that he lost the Holy Scrolls, 
which cost him a hundred Manah.' He ascended the Temple 
mount, turned to the left, and did not stir till he was told that 
they were found. And the Temple was built by Solomon only 
for the purpose that everyone who should have any trouble 
should come and pray, as it is written [I Kings, viii. 37]: ‘‘ If 
there be famine in the land, if there be pestilence,’’ etc. From 
this we know only for individuals; when do we know that it is 
also for the public in general? It is written [ibid., ibid. 38]: 
‘“ Of all thy people Israel.’’ Lest one say it is also for the one 
who prays for children, or for riches which may not be good for 
him, therefore it is written [ibid., ibid. 39]: ‘‘ As thou mayest 
know his heart, for thou thyself alone knowest the heart of all 
the children of men.’’ Whatever is good for him, grant him. 
Whence do we know that they should not persist in their rebel- 
lion ?? It is written [ibid., ibid. 38]: “‘ When they shall be con- 
scious every man of the plague of his own heart, and he then 
spread forth his hands toward this house.’’ All this concerns 
the Israelites, but whence do we know that it concerns also the 
Gentiles? Therefore it is written [ibid., ibid. 41]: ‘‘ But also | 
to the stranger, who is not of thy people Israel, but cometh out 
of a far-off country,’’ etc. 





£. * The coin Manah was of the value of a hundred Zuz. * This 
is to be understood thus: Whence do we know, if a rebel comes to 
pray that he shall be successful in his rebellion, that he shall not 
be listened to ? 





EBEL RABBATHI, OR SEMA’HOTH. 27 


CHAPTER VII. 


A. The period of thirty days must be counted to the fol- 
lowing: to mourning, to calender clothes, to cutting of hair, to 
demand debts, to a woman of handsome form, to betrothal, to 
marriage, to a virgin, to a widow, to a Yebamah,' to one who 
vowed against his wife, and to an indefinite Nazarite. 

B. ‘‘ To mourning.’’ Howso? It is written [Deut. xxxiv. 
8]: ‘‘ And the children of Israel wept for Moses in the plains of 
Moab thirty days.’’ 

“* Calender clothes’’ means all garments which come out from 
under the press. So is the decree of Rabbi. The sages, how- 
ever, say: Colored but not white. But R. Meir said the reverse: 
White but not newly colored; old, however, is permitted in any 
case. Funda, fascia, pileus,| and helmets are also permitted. 
To give garments to be pressed is permitted within the thirty days. 

The rabbis taught: ‘‘ It is not permitted to calender clothes, 
whether new, or old ones which have just been removed from 
under the press, during the full period of thirty days.’’ Rabbi, 
however, said: ‘‘ It applies only to new.ones.’’ R. Elazar bar 
Simeon said: ‘‘ They have prohibited new white garments only.”’ 
Abayi acted in accordance with Rabbi. Rabha, however, acted 
in accordance with R. Eliezer bar R. Simeon. 

‘“* To cutting of hair.’’ Ue must not cut off the hair of his 
head, his mustache, his beard, or any hair of his body. A 
woman, however, is permitted to cut her hair after the seven days. 

‘““ To demand debts.’’ If one lends money for an indefinite 
period, he cannot demand it before thirty days. 

C. ‘Toa woman of handsome form.’ It is written [Deut. 
xxi. 11]: ‘‘ And hast a desire unto her, that thou wouldst take 
her to thee to wife.’’ She must shave off her hair, and pare her 
nails. So is the decree of R. Meir; but R. Agqiba said: The 
hair must be shaved, and the nails she must let grow. Said R. 





CHAPTER VII. 


A. * Yebamah is called a woman whose husband died childless, 
leaving living brothers [Deut. xxv. 5]. 

B. * All these garments have Roman names, and were used in 
those days, and we do not think it necessary to describe how they 
were made. The reader, however, will find it in ‘‘ Hamashbir’’ and 
similar works. 


28 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD, 


Eliezer: As in both the head and nails the Torah prescribed a 
doing,’ and as the doing what is said by the head means that 
the hair shall be cut off, the same is the case with the nails; but 
R. Agqiba said: As the doing what is said by the head is meant 
to make her ugly, the same is the case with the nails (and noth- 
ing is uglier than long nails). A support to R. Eliezer can be 
found in II Samuel [xix. 25]: ‘‘ And Mephibosheth the (grand-) 
son of Saul came down to meet the king, and he had not dressed 
his feet, nor trimmed his head.’’ A support to R. Agiba can 
be found in Daniel [iv. 30]: ‘‘ Till his hair was grown like eagles’ 
(feathers), and his zaz/s* were like birds’ claws.’’ 

8 Pin’has, the brother of Mar Samuel, was in mourning. When 
Samuel came to condole with him and noticed that his nails were 
untrimmed, he said to him: “ Why dost thou not trim them?” 
And he answered him: “If this were the case with thee, wouldst 
thou disrespect the mourning to such an extent?” And it was 
[ Eccl. x. 6] “like an error which proceedeth from the ruler.”” And 
a death occurred in Samuel’s family. When R. Pin’has came to 
condole with zm, the former trimmed his nails and threw the 
parings in his face, saying: “I see that thou dost not pay any 
attention to the saying: Words are ominous, as said R. Johanan. 
Whence is it deduced that words are ominous? It is written 
[Gen. xxii. 5]: “And Abraham said unto his young men,” etc., 
“and we will worship aud come again to you”; and it so hap- 
pened that both of them returned. (Although Isaac was intended 
to be sacrificed.) It was understood from Samuel’s action that 
the nails of the hand only may be cut, but not those of the feet. 
R. Onan bar Ta’hlipha, however, said: ‘(It was explained to me 
by Samuel himself that there is no distinction made.” Said R. 
Hyya bar Ashi in the name of Rabh: “ With a nail file, how- 
ever, it is not allowed.” 

*Rabh said (and Mar Zutra learned it in a Boraitha): “A 





C. *In the text it is termed ‘* Maasse,’’ and in Yebamoth (48a) 
** Assiyah.’”’ The meaning of both is doing, and Rashi there explains 
that, although the two above-mentioned terms are not to be found in 
reference to the head, R. Aqiba and R. Eliezer maintain that the 
cutting off of the hair is also called a doing; hence the analogy. 
* The verse begins with, ‘‘and from men was he driven away,’’ and 
concludes that his nails were like birds’ claws; hence it is not an 
ornament. °*Gemara from Moed Katan. ‘Gemara from Moed 
Katan. 





EBEL RABBATHI, OR SEMA’HOTH. 29 


couple from Hamthon once came before Rabbi and asked his 
permission to cut their nails in their mourning, and he permitted 
them to do so; and if even they would have asked his permission 
to trim their mustaches, he would also have permitted them.” 
Samuel added: ‘“ They actually did ask his permission and he 
did permit them.” 

D. It is written [Deut. xxi. 13]: ‘‘ And she shall put off the 
raiment of her captivity.’ If she was dressed in white or black 
which becomes her, or she had on jewelry, they must be removed 
from her, for the purpose of making her unhandsome. The case 
is only if she has declined to embrace the Jewish faith; but if 
she be inclined, she is dipped, is freed from slavery, and he may 
marry her. The purpose for which all this was done is to pre- 
vent mingling. 

£. ‘‘ To betrothal.’’ How so? It is not allowed to make 
the feast of betrothal within thirty days of the day of the funeral. 
‘‘ To marriage.’’ The feast of marriage is not allowed to be 
made within this period; but if everything was prepared before 
the death occurred of one of his or her parents he may marry, 
and have the first intercourse with her; but after that they must 
be separated for seven days. This is only in case one of his 
parents dies; but if his wife dies, he is not allowed to marry 
again until three regular festivals have passed.1 R. Jehudah, 
however, said: Two, and he may marry at the third. This is 
the case when he has grown-up children; but if they are yet 
little ones, or he is childless, he may marry even within the 
thirty days. It happened that the wife of R. Tarphon died, 
and R. Tarphon said to her sister within the period of mourn- 
ing: ‘‘ Enter this house, and educate thy sister’s children.”’ 
Nevertheless, he had no intercourse with her until the thirty 
days were over. 

The rabbis taught: ‘‘ One is not permitted to marry during 
the full period of the thirty days. If he, however, mourns over 
his wife, he must not remarry again until three festivals shall 
have passed. R. Jehudah, however, allows after the first and 
second festival have passed.’’ But if he is childless he may 
remarry at once, in order not to restrict reproduction; so also is 





£. *If she dies before Passover, he may marry after Taber- 
nacles; if after Passover, he must wait till the three festivals Pente- 
cost, Tabernacles, and Passover have passed; and so on with the 
other festivals. 


30 ‘THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


the case if he has minor children, for they have to be brought 
up. It happened that the wife of Joseph the priest died, and 
he said to the deceased’s sister while still on the burial ground: 
‘“Go and rear thy sister’s children.’’ But still he did not 
cohabit with her for a long while. For how long? Said R. 
Papa: ‘‘ Until after the thirty days.”’ 

‘* To a virgin.’’ The period in which to complain that one 
has not found virginity? is limited till thirty days after the mar- 
riage.® 


CHAPTER VIII. 


A. During three days before the interment, experts repair 
to the cemetery and examine the dead whether they are really 
dead; [and although this is the custom of other nations], there 
is no fear of the prohibition of the deeds of the Amorites.’ It 
happened that one of the dead was examined (and found alive), 
and he lived twenty-five years after that; and to another one, 
that he begat five children before he died. 

B. A canopy may be made for dead bridegrooms and brides, 
and either eatable or uneatable things may be hung on it. So 
is the decree of R. Meir. R. Jehudah, however, said: Only 
unripe things—viz., unripe nuts, unripe yaAAog, tongus of pur- 
ple, and flasks of Arabian oil; but not when they are ripe, nor 
ripe pomegranates, nor flasks of sweet oil, as whatever hangs on 
the canopy, no benefit may be derived from it. Strings of fish, 
pieces of meat, may be thrown before the dead bridegroom or 
bride in the summer,’ but not in rain time; and even during 





* Deut. xxii. 14. 


* Concerning a widow and the other subjects mentioned above, they are explained 
in their respective tracts ; therefore we have omitted them here. 


CHAPTER VIII. 

A, * Lev. xviii. 3. 

B. * Therefore only unripe things were allowed, lest one should 
use them if they were ripe. “It must have been a custom at that 
time to throw some things which were prepared for the wedding 
feast. Itis certainly difficult to explain, without a particular knowl- 
edge of this obsolete custom. Naumburg, however, maintains that 
it was done for a live bridegroom and bride; but we do not agree 
with him, for the reason that this is not mentioned in Berachoth, 
where it is enumerated what is to be done to honor the bride and 
bridegroom. 





EBEL RABBATHI, OR SEMA’HOTH. 31 


the summer, they must not do so with cooked fish or other eat- 
ables which will be spoiled after they are thrown on the ground. 
Nuts and other fruit in shells, as they are not spoiled, may be 
thrown at all times. There is a rule that anything which may 
be spoiled must not be thrown. 

C. Likewise wine and oil may be put in a water pipe in 
honor of live bridegrooms and brides. As it happened to Jehu- 
dah and Hillel the sons of R. Gamaliel, when they were the © 
guests of Ben Zakkai in Babylon,’ the townspeople flooded the 
water pipes with wine and oil to honor them. Also the bodies 
of kings, and their clothes may be burned, their cattle ham- 
stringed, without fear that it is after the usages of the Amorites. 
The ceremony of burning clothes and other things is performed 
for the corpses of kings only, but not for princes. When Rab- 
ban Gamaliel died, Aquilas the proselyte, however, burned in 
his honor clothes of the value of eight thousand Zuz, and when 
he was asked why he did so, he answered: It is written [Jerem. 
xxxiv. 5]: ‘‘In peace shalt thou die; and as burnings were 
made for thy father,’’ etc. Was not Rabban Gamaliel more 
worthy than a hundred kings, for whom we have no use ?? 

D. The hair of a dead bride may be loosened; and the face 
of a bridegroom may be uncovered, and the marriage contract 
and the pen may be put by his side, without fear that so is the 
custom of the Amorites. There may also be put in the coffin 
the key and the pinkas (zzva@&) of the dead, to call the attention 
of others to mourn, as it happened with Samuel the Little, that 
his key and pinkas were put in his coffin, because he did not 
leave ason. And Rabban Gamaliel the Elder and R. Elazar b. 
Azariah lamented him, saying: ‘‘ For this dead one it is meet to 
weep, it is proper to lament. When kings die they leave their 
thrones to their children, when rich men die they leave their 
wealth to their children, but Samuel the Little took with him 
the most precious thing in the world, and is gone!”’ 

£. Before he died, he said: ‘‘ Simeon and Ishmael are pre- 
pared for the sword, and all the remaining people for being 
robbed, and great trouble will follow.’’ And he spoke this in 





C. * These were Jehudah the second and Hillel his brother the 
grandsons of Rabbi; and b. Zakkai must have been a prominent 
person in Babylon. *In Abodah Zarah, r1a, is stated that burning 
of clothes was also done for princes, and Aquilas’ deed was used as 
a support without any explanation. 


32 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Aramaic. When this occurred, and R. Simeon b. Gamaliel and 
R. Ishmael were condemned to death, R. Ishmael was weeping; 
but R. Simeon said: I praise God that it is only two steps till I 
shall be received in the bosom of the righteous in the world to 
come, and you are weeping? And the former rejoined: Do I 
weep because we are going to be slain? I am weeping because 
we will be slain as if we were murderers and violators of the Sab- 
bath. After they were executed, and R. Aqiba and R. Jehudah 
b. Ethyra were informed, they put sackcloth on their loins, rent 
their garments, and said: Brother Israelites! If a good thing 
was to come for the whole world, these two sages would cer- 
tainly have been the first to receive it; and now, as they were 
the first to be executed, it must be only for their benefit: they 
shall not see the great calamities which will follow after that. 
Woe! ‘‘ The righteous perisheth, and no man layeth it to 
heart’ [Isaiah, lvii. 1]. ‘‘ He shall come (to his father) in 
peace, they shall repose in their resting-place’’ [ibid., ibid. 2]. 

Fr. When R. Agqiba was executed, and R. Jehudah b. Baba 
and R. Hanina b. Teradion heard of it, they also arose, put sack- 
cloth on their loins, rent their garments, and cried: Brothers, 
listen to us! R. Aqiba was not slain because of robbery nor 
because he had not observed the Law with all his might, he was 
slain only for an example, as it is written [ Ezek. xxiv. 24]: “‘ Thus 
shall Ezekiel be unto you for a token . . . then shall ye know 
that Iam the Lord eternal.’’ We are sure that within a few days 
there will not be a place in the whole of Palestine where corpses 
of the people will not be lying about. It was said that scarcely 
had a few days passed, when a canine appetite dissipated the 
whole world, which lasted from that time for a twelvemonth. 

G. When R. Hanina b. Teradion was seized by the govern- 
ment they sentenced him to the stake, his wife to the sword, 
and his daughter to a house of prostitution. He inquired: To 
what have they sentenced the poor thing (his wife)? And he 
was answered: To the sword! Whereupon he exclaimed the 
following passage: ‘‘ Righteous is the Lord in all his ways”’ 
[Ps. cxlv. 17]. When she asked to what the rabbi was sen- 
tenced, she was answered: To the stake. Whereupon she ex- 
claimed the passage: ‘‘ Great in counsel, and mighty in execu- 
tion,’’ etc. [Jer. xxxii. 19]. When he was to be burned they 
wrapped him in the Holy Scrolls, and his daughter cried and 
threw herself on the ground. He said to her: My daughter! 
If thou weepest and throwest thyself on the ground over me, is 





EBEL RABBATHI, OR SEMA HOTH. 33 


it not better I should be consumed by a fire which was kindled 
in this world than by a fire which is not kindled (Gehenna)? As 
it is written [Job, xx. 26]: ‘‘ A fire not urged by blowing.’’ And 
for the Holy Scrolls! Knowest thou not that the Torah is fire 
itself, and no fire can consume another? The parchment only 
is burned, but the letters fly away. Thou must also know that 
the great servants of the king are mostly beaten through the 
lesser, as it is written [Hosea, vi. 5]: ‘‘ Therefore did I hew 
(them) down by means of the prophets, I slew them by the 
work of my mouth.’’! 

Hf. R. Agiba said: There is a king who has four sons. One 
is struck and is silent; the second rebels; the third prays for 
mercy; and the fourth says to his father: Strike me (because 
I am deserving). Abraham was struck but was silent, as it is 
written [Gen. xxii. 2]: ““ Take now thy son, thy only one, whom 
thou lovest, even Isaac . . . and offer him there for a burnt- 
offering.’’ He ought to have said: The other day thou didst 
tell me: “‘ For in Isaac shall thy seed be called ’’ [Gen. xxi. 12] ? 
and nevertheless it is written [ibid. xxii. 3]: ‘‘ And Abraham 
rose up early in the morning,’’ etc. Job was struck and re- 
belled, as it is written [Job, x. 2]: ‘‘ I will say unto God, do not 
condemn me: let me know for what cause thou contendest | 
against me.’’ Hezekiah was struck, and he prayed for mercy, 
as it is written [II Kings, xix. 15]: “‘ And Hezekiah prayed 
before the Lord,’’ etc. According to others, even Hezekiah 
rebelled, because he said: ‘“‘ Did I not do what is good in thy 
eyes ?”’ [ibid. xx. 3].1. But David is the one who said to his 
father: Strike me (because I am deserving), as it is written 
[Psalms, li. 4]: ‘‘ Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, and 
cleanse me from my sin.”’ 

I. The study of the Torah must not be interrupted till the 
soul is out of the dying one. When R. Simeon the son of R. 
Agiba was ill,? he (R. Aqiba) did not absent himself from the 
college, but inquired about him through messengers. The first 





G. * This is Leeser’s translation, but the Talmud takes it liter- 
ally—that the prophets were slain through the sin of Israel. 

#7, * It means that this expression is a protest against his afflic- 
tion, as it was not proper to remind the Lord of His good deeds. 

J. * See above, p. 18. The entire occurrence is repeated here at 
length, with some changes; therefore we leave it as it is in both 
places. 

3 


34 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


messenger announced that he was yet ill. He nevertheless said 
to the disciples: ‘‘ Question!’’ The second announced that he 
was worse, and still he did not interrupt his studies. The third 
one announced that he was in the struggle of death, and yet he 
said: ‘‘ Question!’’ till the fourth one announced the death. 
Whereupon he arose, removed his phylacteries, rent his gar- 
ments, and said to them: ‘‘ Brother Israelites, listen to me! 
Till now we were obliged to study the Law; now, however, we 
are obliged to honor the dead.’’ A great multitude assembled 
to bury the son of R. Aqiba. He said: “‘ Bring me out a bench 
to the cemetery.’’ He sat down and said: ‘‘ Brother Israelites, . 
listen! (You have assembled) not because I am a sage, for there 
are greater sages than I; not because I am rich, for there are 
richer men than I. If the men of the south know Aqiba, why 
should the Galileans know him? If the men know Agiba, what 
have the women and the children to do with Agqiba (but here is 
not Aqiba, here is the Torah)? Oh! your reward will be great, 
ye have done homage to the Law. I am consoled, and had I 
even seven sons and buried them all, I would be consoled, [not 
that one is desirous of burying his children], but because I know 
that he will inherit the world to come; because it is known to 
all that he was given to philanthropic activity, to whom a sin 
never reaches.’’ (See Yomah, p. 138.) 

Moses, who was himself righteous, and was given to philan- 
thropic activity, the reward of the public was counted to him, 
as it is written [Deut. xxxiii. 21]: ‘‘ He executed the justice of 
the Lord, and his judgments with Israel.’’ Jeroboam the son of 
Nebat sinned and induced the public to sin: the sin of the pub- 
lic was counted to him, as it is written [I Kings, xiv. 16]: ‘‘ For 
the sake of the sins of Jeroboam, who did sin, and who induced 
Israel to sin.’’ 

J. (There is a tradition): The reward of virtue is brought 
about by a meritorious person (Sabbath, p. 55); ¢.g., Israel was 
destined to be redeemed from Egypt, as it is written [Gen. xv. 
14]: ‘‘ And afterward shall they go out with great substance.”’ 
But as Moses and Aaron were meritorious persons, it was done 
through them. The same is the case with the receiving of the 
Torah; they would have received it without Moses, Aaron, and 
the generation of the desert, as it is written [Proverbs, ii. 7]: 
“He treasureth up sound wisdom for the righteous.’’ The 
paragraph of Judges [Ex, xv. 18] would be said, even if Jethro 
would not appear. The same is the case with the paragraph 





EBEL RABBATHI, OR SEMA’HOTH. 35 


about the second Paschal lamb, it would be said even if the 
defiled men were not under the requirements of law [Numb. ix. 
7|; and the same is with the paragraph of inheritance, it would 
be written without the daughters of Zelophchad. 

K. The Temple also would have been built without David and 
Solomon, as it is written [Ex. xv. 17]: ‘‘ The sanctuary, O Lord, 
which Thy hands have established.’’ In the time of Haman, 
Israel would have been redeemed also without Mordecai and 
Esther, as it is written [Lev. xxvi. 44]: “‘ And yet for all that, 
though they be in the land of their enemies, I will not cast them 
away, neither will I loathe them to destroy them utterly.’’ But 
all that was done through the above-mentioned, because a reward 
shall be brought about by a meritorious person. 

L. The same is true of the reverse. Israel was destined to 
be enslaved, even if Pharaoh should not have existed, as it is 
written [Gen. xv. 13]: ‘‘ And they will make them serve, and 
they will afflict them. four hundred years.’’ Israel would wor- 
ship the idols even if Jeroboam b. Nebat should not have ex- 
isted, as it is written [Deut. xxxi. 16]: “‘ And then will this 
people rise up and go astray.’’ The paragraphs of the blas- 
phemer and the violator of Sabbath would have been written 
even if the blasphemer and the stick-gatherer should not have 
existed. Israel was destined to be slain by the sword, even if 
the persecutors' at different times should not have existed, as it 
is written [Amos, ix. 10]: ‘“‘ By the sword shall die all the sin- 
ners of my people.’’ Jerusalem would have been destroyed also, 
without Nebuchadnezzar and his associates, as it is written 
[ Micah, iii. 12]: ‘‘ Therefore for your sake shall Zion be ploughed 
up as a field, and Jerusalem shall become ruinous heaps, and the 
mount of the house as forest-covered high places.’’ But all this 
was done through the above-mentioned, because of the rule that 
the chastisement for sin is dealt out through a sinner, and this 
was explained by Papus and Lulianus his brother to Trajan their 
prosecutor. (Taanith, p. 48.) 

M. Those who are more particular in interpreting the verses 
of the Scriptures said: It is written [Deut. xii. 3]: “‘ And ye 
shall overthrow their altars.’’ Wherein have the wood and 
stone sinned (to be destroyed)? It must be only because people 
have stumbled through them. From this is to be drawn an 





ZL. “In Yalkut is mentioned Balaam instead of persecutors, but 
it seems to us to be proper as explained here. 


36 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


a fortiort conclusion: Wood and stones which have neither vir- 
tue nor sin, neither goodness nor wickedness, because people 
have stumbled through them, if the Torah nevertheless decided 
their destruction, so much the more he who causes his neighbor 
to sin, and inclines him from the path of life to the path of 
death, deserves to be destroyed! In the same manner they ex- 
plained the following: It is written [Lev. xx. 16]: ‘‘ Then shalt 
thou kill the woman and the beast.’’ If the woman has sinned, © 
in what has the beast sinned? It must be only because the 
woman has sinned with it, it must be killed; as otherwise, when- 
ever it would be seen in the street, people would say: ‘‘ This is 
the beast through which so and so was stoned.’’ And also here 
they draw the same a fortiori: An animal which has no virtue, 
etc., like the wood and stones, and nevertheless the Torah de- 
cided that it must be stoned—a man who causes his neighbor to 
depart from the path of life to the path of death, so much the 
more must he suffer for it. 

NV. An a fortiort conclusion is also to be drawn from the 
stones of the altar; namely, it is written [Deut. xxvii. 5]: 
‘Thou shalt not lift up any iron tool upon them,”’ and it is 
also written [Ex. xx. 22]: ‘* For if thou lift up thy tool upon it, 
thou hast polluted it.’’ Why, then, shall iron be unfit for the 
altar more than any other metal? It is because the sword is an 
unpropitious event and the altar is a propitious one, and a sign 
of curse must be removed from the thing which is forgiveness. 
Now, is this not an a fortior:: The stones of the altar which do 
not see, hear, talk, neither eat nor drink, but only because they 
made peace between Israel and their heavenly Father, the Torah 
said they should not be cut with iron, ‘‘ Of whole stones shall 
they build the altar of the Lord God’’ [Deut. xxvii. 6], we see 
then that the stones which bring peace in the world must not 
come in contact with iron and must be whole—the students who 
in themselves are a forgiveness to the world, so much the more 
must they not come in contact with evil things, in order to be 
perfect before the Holy One, blessed be He? 


CHAPTER IX. 


A. For all the relatives, one must rend his garments, also for 
the teacher from whom he received his study. A wise man, 
however, all are his relatives, all must rend their garments, all 





EBEL RABBATHI, OR SEMA’HOTH. 37 


must take off their shoes, and all may take part in the funeral 
meal (which used to be eaten in the street on the return from 
the cemetery). R. Simeon b. Elazar, however, said that rend- 
ing of the garments is obligatory to all who are present at the 
death of a human being; the relatives, however, must rend their 
garments and take off their shoes, even if they are not present. 
Different is it when a sage dies. All who are notified of his 
demise must perform the mourning ceremonies. 

B. For the death of the chief of a college all (the college 
men) are obliged to bare their right arm ;' for the chief of a court, 
the left; and for the Nasi both arms are bared. When the 
death of R. Eliezer occurred, R. Aqiba bared both his arms, 
beat his breast until blood spurted from it, and cried: ‘‘ My 
father, my father, the chariot of Israel, and their horsemen 
[I Kings, ii. 12]. 

Ula said: ‘‘ Lamenting is by striking on the breast, for it is 
written [Isa. xxii. 12]: ‘ They shall strike on the breast, lament- 
ing.’’’ Clapping is done with the hands, and striking is done 
with the feet. 

The rabbis taught: ‘‘ One who strikes with his feet must not 
do so with his sandals on, but with his shoes on, in order to 
avert danger.’’ R. Johanan said: ‘* If the mourner motions his 
head (as if he is consoled already), his consolers need no more 
stay with him.’’ R. Johanan said again: ‘‘ All persons must 
rise from their seats on the arrival of a Nasi, except a mourner 
and a sick person.’’ R. Johanan said again: ‘‘ All persons are 
told to be seated (after they rose), except a mourner and a sick 
person.”’ 

C. For all his relatives one is not obliged to bare his arm, 
except for father and mother. If something is on the arms 
which prevents their being bared, one is not obliged to do it 
even at the death of his parents. It happened that when the 
death of R. Aqiba’s father occurred, R. Aqiba did not bare his 
arm, though others did. 

1Tn all cases it is praiseworthy to remove the corpse as soon 
as possible, excepting in the case of a dead parent, unless it is 





CHAPTER IX. 


B. * As this custom is obsolete, we cannot explain its meaning 
and how it was done. 
C. ' Gemara from Moed Katan. 


38 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


on a Friday or on the eve of a festival, for the removal is then 
only for the honor of the deceased (in order that they shall not 
remain unburied until after the Sabbath or festival). In all 
cases of death it is optional with the mourner whether to lessen 
his attendance to his business or not; in the case of the death 
of a parent, he must lessen. As to baring the shoulder, it is 
also obligatory in case of parents only. It happened that the 
father of a great man of the generation died, and the great man 
wanted to bare his shoulder; another great man, who equalled 
him and who was present at the time, wanted to do likewise (in 
order to show his respect), and the first one refrained from doing 
it (in order to prevent the other one from inconvenience). Said 
Abayi: ‘‘ The great man of the generation was Rabbi, and the © 
other one who was present at the time was R. Jacob bar A’ha.’’ 
According to others, it was vice versa. In all cases of death the 
mourner may cut his hair after thirty days; but in the case of 
his parents, not before he is censured by his friends (for wearing 
too long hair). In all cases of death one may participate in any 
enjoyment after thirty days, except in the case of his parents, 
when he may do so only after twelve months. Said Rabba bar 
bar Hana: ‘‘In an entertainment of friends he may participate 
at once.”’ In all cases one may rend his garment only one span 
long; over parents he must rend so much as to bare his breast. 
Said R. Abuhu: From what passage do we know this? From 
[II Sam. i. 2]: ‘‘ David thereupon took hold of his clothes, and 
rent them.’’ And it is known that wherever “‘ hold’’ is men- 
tioned, it is not less than a span. In all cases, even if one has 
ten garments on, it is sufficient to rend the upper one only; over 
his parents, however, he must rend all the garments he has on, 
except the chest protector. And there is no distinction made 
between male and female. R. Simeon b. Elazar, however, said: 
‘“A woman rends the undergarment, places the rent part on 
her back, and then rends her upper garment.’’ In all cases it is 
optional whether to tear asunder the outside hem or not, but 
over parents it is obligatory. R. Jehudah, however, said: “‘ If 
the hem is not torn asunder, it is not considered rending at 
all.’’* Said R. Abuhu: ‘‘ What is the reason of R. Jehudah’s 
statement ? It is written [II Kings, ii. 12]: ‘‘ And he took hold 
of his clothes, and rent them in two pieces.’’ The superfluous 





* In order to understand the explanation hereof of Rashi, a thorough knowledge 
of the ancient cut of garments is required, which we leave to the historian. 





EBEL RABBATHI, OR SEMA’HOTH. 39 


_ statement, ‘‘in two pieces,’’ indicates that it must be rent so 
that it should look as if torn in two pieces. In all cases the rent 
may be slightly sewed together after the seven days, and regu- 
larly mended after the thirty days; but over parents it may only 
be slightly sewed together after thirty days, but never regularly 
mended. Women, however, may sew it together at once, for 
the sake of decency. When Rabbin came from Palestine, he © 
stated in the name of R. Johanan: “‘ Over relatives it is optional 
whether to rend by hand or with an instrument; over parents, 
by hand only.’’ R. Hyya bar Abba said in the name of R. 
Johanan: ‘‘ Over relatives the rent is made in the house; over 


parents, even outside of the house.’’ A prince once died. Said 
R. Hisda to R. Hanan bar Rabha: “‘ Stand on an elevation and 
rend your garments, so that every one will see it.’’ Over the 


death of a scholar, the right shoulder is bared; over that of a 
chief of a court, the left one is bared; over that of a Nasi, both 
shoulders are bared. 

The rabbis taught: When a scholar dies, his college closes. 
When a chief of a court dies, all the colleges in the city in which 
he resided close, and those who come to the prayer-house to 
pray change their usual seats, so that those who have seats on 
the north benches take seats on the south benches, and vice 
versa. But when a Nasi dies, all the colleges close and the 
members of the congregation assemble in the prayer-house, and 
only seven read in the Law, and leave. R. Joshua b. Kar’ha 
said: ‘‘ That does not mean that they shall walk around in the 
streets, but that they must remain in their houses and keep 
silent.’’ And no ordinance or Agada should be declared in the 
mourner’s house. It was said, however, of R. Hananiah b. 
Gamaliel that he had declared ordinances and Agada in the 
house of a mourner. 

The rabbis taught: ‘‘ And the following rent garments may 
not be mended: garments rent over the death of parents: over 
the death of one’s instructor in Law; over a Nasi, chief of the 
court; over ill-tidings; over blasphemy; the Holy Scrolls which 
were burned by fire; the cities of Jehudah; the Temple; and 
over Jerusalem. And one may rend over the destruction of the 
Temple and add another rent (at the same place) over Jerusa- 
lem.’’® R. Helba in the name of Ula of Birah, quoting R. 





* All this is adduced from biblical passages which we deem unimportant to quote 
here. 


40 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Elazar, said: ‘‘ One who beholds the cities of Jehudah in their 
desolate state, says [Isa. xiv. 9]: ‘ Thy holy cities are become a 
wilderness,’ and rends his garment; when he beholds Jerusalem 
in her desolate state, he says [ibid., ibid.]: ‘ Zion is become a 
wilderness, Jerusalem a desolate place,’ and rends; when he 
beholds the Temple in its desolate state, he says [ibid. 10]: ‘ Our 
holy and our beautiful house where our fathers praised Thee is 
burned up with fire; and all our costly things are become ruins,’ 
and rends.’’ 

4The Boraitha stated: ‘‘One may rend over the Temple 
and add another rent,’’ etc. There is a contradiction from 
the following Boraitha: ‘‘ Both the one who heard it and the 
one who saw it, as soon as they reach Zophim they rend their 
garments, and they do so separately over the Temple and 
over Jerusalem ?’’ This presents no difficulty: The first Bo- 
raitha relates to a case where he beheld the Temple first; the 
second, where he beheld Jerusalem first (Rashi explains the 
first case that he was under such circumstances that he could 
not see Jerusalem first, as for instance if he were in a closed 
carriage). 

The rabbis taught: ‘‘ And all (rents) may be slightly sewed 
together, hemmed, gathered (a sort of stitch), and stair-stitched, 
but not regularly mended.’’ Said R. Hisda: ‘‘ Mending is not 
allowed only when it is done in the fashion of Alexandria’’ (for 
it then looks as if never rent). 

The rabbis taught: The original rending is a span long; the 
additional, three fingers. Such is the dictum of R. Meir; 
R. Jehudah, however, said: ‘‘ The original rending is three 
fingers, and the additional a trifle.’’ Said Ula: ‘‘ The Halakha 
prevails according to R. Meir as regards the original rending, 
and according to R. Jehudah as regards the additional one.’’ 
We have learned the same also in a Boraitha in the name of 
R. Jose. . 

° Rending which is not done in the moment of excitement 
(immediately after the occurrence of the death) is not considered 
rending at all. Was it then not stated that Samuel rent all the 
twelve different garments he had on when he was informed of the 
death of Rabh, saying: ‘‘ The man whom I always feared (for his 
sharpness) has passed away’’ ? And was it not also stated of R. 
Johanan that he rent thirteen woollen garments when he was 





C. * Gemara from Moed Katan. ° Gemara from Moed Katan. 





EBEL RABBATHI, OR SEMA’HOTH. 41 


informed of the death of R. Hanina, saying: ‘‘ The man whom I 
always was in dread of has passed away ’’ (and in these instances 
it was not immediately after the occurrence of the death)? In 
case of death of rabbis it is different, because, their teachings 
being always fresh in memory, the moment of excitement is when- 
ever the information of their death reaches. Rabhin bar Ada 
said to Rabha: ‘‘ Thy disciple R. Amram taught the following 
Boraitha: A mourner during all the seven days must wear the 
rent part in front, and if he changes clothes he must rend. again. 
On the Sabbath he must remove the rent part from the front to 
the back; if he, however, changes his clothes for the Sabbath, 
he must not rend again.’’ (Hence we see that one must rend, 
although after the moment of excitement ?) Rabha answered 
him: ‘‘ This applies only to parents, but over other relatives it 
is different.’’ 

® May those rents be mended? The father of R. Oshiya and 
Bar Qappara differ: One holds they may, and the other holds 
they may not. 

7Rabha said: A mourner may walk around in his easy-dress 
in his house (in private).° 

D. If he was informed of his father’s death, and he rent his 
garments, and afterward he was told that it was not the father 
but the mother, his duty is fulfilled; and also vice versa. If 
after he has rent for his parents he was told that it was not his 
parents but one of his relatives, this rending is sufficient. If, 
however, he was informed of the death of a relative, and after 
he has rent he was told that it was not his relative but one of 
his parents, he must rend again. 

The rabbis taught: ‘‘ If one is informed of the death of his 
father and he made a rent, and then he was informed of the 
death of his son and he made an additional rent, the lower rent 
may be mended but not the upper one. If, however, he was 
informed of the death of his son first, the upper one may be 
mended but not the lower one. If he was informed of the death 
of his father, mother, brother, and sister at the same time, he 
may make one rent for all. R. Jehudah b. Bathyra, however, 
_ said: ‘‘ One rent over his father and mother, and another over 





C. ° Gemara from Moed Katan. * Gemara from Moed Katan. 


* The term in the text for ‘‘ easy-dress” is Sone, which has several different 
meanings. See our ‘‘ Phyl. Rit.,” p. 65. Here, however, it seems to mean a gown 
worn in the house, 


42 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


all the others; for an additional rent should not be added to the 
one over his parents.’’ What is the reason? Said R. Na’hman 
bar Itz’hak: ‘‘ Because the law of additional rending does not 
apply to the case of parents.’ Said Samuel: ‘‘ The Halakha 
prevails according to R. Jehudah b. Bathyra.’’ Could Samuel — 
say so? Did not Samuel decide that the Halakha prevails, in 
regard to mourning, according to the one who is lenient? 
Mourning is one thing and rending is another. 

1 How far down must one rend? As faras his navel. Accord- 
ing to others, as far as the breast. And although there is no 
direct support for that from the Scripture, there is nevertheless 
a hint for that in [Joel, ii. 13], ‘‘ And rend your heart, and not 
your garments.”’ 

The rabbis taught: If asick person has a case of death in his 
family he must not be informed of the fact, for it may cause him 
distress; and no rending is done in his presence, and the women 
are silenced (to keep any knowledge from him); and a minor’s 
garments are rent for the purpose of moving others to pity him; 
and rending is done over the parents of one’s wife out of respect 
to the latter. R. Papa said: ‘‘ We have learned in Tract Great 
Mourning : ‘ But one (mourner) may not place a babe in his 
lap, for it may cause him to smile and thus be disliked by 
others.’ ”’ 

‘“* The funeral meal is not to be taken except on a couch stand- 
ing up properly.’’ The rabbis taught: ‘‘ One who comes to the 
mourner’s house, if he was intimate with the mourner, he takes 
the funeral meal on a lowered couch; if he were not, on a couch 
standing up properly.’ Rabha had a death in his family, and 
Abba bar Martha, who was also known as Abba bar Maniumi, 
came to console him. Rabha put up the couch, Abba bar 
Martha lowered it, and Rabha remarked: ‘‘ How little sense 
this young scholar has!’’ 

The rabbis taught: ‘‘ A mourner who travels from one place 
to another, if it is convenient to him to lessen his attendance to 
his business he shall do so; if not, he shall attend at least in 
company with other traders.’’ 

The rabbis taught: From what time on must the couch be 
lowered? From the time the deceased is removed from the 
house. Such is the dictum of R. Elazar. R. Joshua, however, 
said: ‘‘ From the time the top-stone is placed on the grave.’’ 





D. * Gemara from Moed Katan. 





EBEL RABBATHI, OR SEMA’HOTH. 43 


When R. Gamaliel the Elder died,? as soon as he was removed 
from the house R. Elazar told the mourners to lower the 
couches; when the top-stone was placed on the grave, R. 
Joshua told them to do so, and they answered: ‘‘ We have 
already done so by the direction of the elder teacher.’’ 

The rabbis taught: ‘“ From what hour on may the couches 
be put in proper condition on Friday? From the hour of the 
Min’ha prayer on.’’ Said Rabba bar Huna: ‘‘ One must not, 
however, sit down on them until sunset, and on Saturday even- 
ing he must again lower them, although he has but one more 
day to mourn.”’ 

The rabbis taught: ‘‘ One must lower not only his own couch, 
but all the couches in the house, even if they numbered ten and 
were placed in different places; and even if four brothers mourn 
over the death of a fifth brother, they all must lower their 
couches. If there is, however, one couch used exclusively for © 
placing on it utensils, that one need not be lowered.’’ 

The rabbis taught: ‘‘ One (a mourner) who sleeps on a stool, 
a large mortar, or on the floor has not fulfilled his duty.’’ Said 
R. Johanan: ‘‘ For he has not performed the duty of lowering 
the couch.’”’ 

£. If one bought a garment which was rent for a death, he 
must not sew it together, unless he knows that the rent is such 
that it may be sewed together. If one sells such a garment, he 
is obliged to acquaint the buyer what kind of arent itis, All 
garments of which their rents must not be sewed together, must 
not be sold to Gentiles; neither can they be turned downward 
and sewed together. Such is the decree of R. Simeon b. Elazar. 
The sages permit it. If one comes to a dying person in a rent 
garment, he is robbing the dead.' It is a greater sin to rob the 
dead than the living, because one can always appease the latter 





7 It seems to us that it should read Gamaliel of Jamniah, as R. Gamaliel the 
Elder was his grandfather, and Eliezer and Joshua were colleagues of the former. 
Heilprin in his ‘‘Seder Hadoroth” brought Abraham Zacutta’s opinion that R. 
Eliezer and R. Joshua were present at the death of both Gamaliel the Elder and 
his grandson of Jamniah without any remarks, which seems to us impossible. More- 
over, if R. Eliezer and R. Joshua existed in the time of the Elder, they could have 
been little children only. 


£. * The Talmud elsewhere says that he robs the living and the 
dead, because the people who see the rent in his garments may think 
that he rent it then, and to impose upon the people is considered a 
robbery. 


wo THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


and make restitution, which he cannot do to the dead. The 
same may be said of him who honors his parents after they are 
dead: it is more praiseworthy than when he honors them when 
they are alive, as in that case it may be said that he does so 
because he fears them, or because he expects tg inherit from 
them; but when he honors them after they are dead, it is only 
for the sake of heaven. ‘ . 

The rabbis taught: One who wears in the presence of a 
deceased person a garment which has been rent over another 
deceased, is imposing on both the deceased and the living. R. 
Simeon b. Gamaliel said: ‘‘ One who borrows a garment of 
another for the purpose of visiting his sick father, and informing 
the borrower of the purpose for which the garment is to be 
used, does visit his father but finds him dead, he must rend, but 
may mend it and return it to the owner, paying him the differ- 
ence in value caused by the rending. But if he has not informed 
the owner of the purpose, he may not rend. 

F. If one has rent for one dead, and he be resuscitated, if he 
dies immediately after, this rent is sufficient; but if he live some 
time, one must rend again. 

G. One who saves the garment which was upon the dead is 
robbing the dead: this is only with the garments which are with 
him in the coffin, but not those which are with him in bed; 
nevertheless, the heirs must be told not to save even the gar- 
ments which were with him in the bed.’ One who adds gar- 
ments to a corpse more than necessary, he transgresses the pre- 
cept, “‘ Thou shalt not destroy’’ [Deut. xx. I9].? So is the 
decree of R. Meir. R. Eliezer b. Zadok said: He makes the 
corpse homely.* Rabban Gamaliel said: Also, they add vermin. 

HT. Said R. Nathan: The garments in which the corpse is 
buried will be renewed with him in resurrection, as it is written 
[Job, xxxviii. 14]: ‘‘ She is changed as the sealing-clay, and (all 
things) stand as though newly clad.’’ 





G. * It seems to us from Sanhedrin, 48a, that the Talmud advises 
that all the garments which were with the dead in bed shall be used 
for the purpose of honoring the dead, as their custom was to pour 
wine before the dead. 7° All things which were fit for use for human 
beings, or for their benefit, the Talmud does not allow to destroy, 
without a purpose, and calls the one who does so ‘‘a transgressor”’ 
of the negative commandment cited in this passage. *It means, 
because when they are rotten it adds to the homeliness of the corpse. 





EBEL RABBATHI, OR SEMA’HOTH. 45 


CHAPTER X. 


A. A mourner is exempt from reading Shema, from prayers, 
and all the precepts commanded in the Torah, during the time 
that the corpse is in his house. If one desires to be rigorous 
with himself, he shall not do so, for the honor of the dead. 
When the time for reading Shema approaches, all the people 
read; he, however, must be silent. When they rise to pray, he 
shall acknowledge the justice, saying: ‘‘ Lord of the universe! 
I have sinned against Thee; a little only of my indebtedness was 
called in, although I deserve much more. May it be Thy will to 
close up our breaches’ and condole us!’’ R. Simeon said: He 
also prays for the departed soul. 

B. The mourner must eat with his neighbors. If he has 
none, he shall eat in another room; if he has none, he shall 
make a partition of ten spans’ distance; if he has nothing to 
make a partition with, he shall turn his face and eat. He must 
not lean’ and eat, neither must he eat meat nor drink wine; he — 
must not pronounce the meal benediction, nor can he be in- 
cluded where three are required in pronouncing it, neither may 
others pronounce it singly or in three for him. All this is only 
on week-days; on the Sabbath, however, he may eat and lean, 
and is allowed all the things mentioned above. As Rabban 
Gamaliel said: On the Sabbath a mourner is not considered as 
a mourner at all. 

*R. Jehudah in the name of Rabh said: ‘‘ A mourner on the 
first day must not eat of his own bread, for the Merciful One 
said [Ezek. xxiv. 22]: ‘And the bread of other men shall ye 
not eat.’’’ Rabba and R. Joseph (when they were in mourning) 
used to exchange their meals between themselves. R. Jehudah 
in the name of Rabh said again: ‘“ When a case of death occurs 
in a town, all the inhabitants of the town are prohibited from 
doing any work.’’ R. Hamnuna happened to be in Drumtha, 





CHAPTER X, 


A.’ According to the translation of Leeser, and meaning that 
the doors shall be closed for further bereavements. 

B. * According to the custom in the Orient to eat leaning, and as 
we do at the Seder ceremony on the first eve of Passover. * Gemara 
from Moed Katan. 


46 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


and he heard the horn announcing the occurrence of a death. 
When he subsequently noticed certain persons doing some work, 
he said to them: ‘‘ Let these persons be under the ban, for is 
there not a death-case intown ?’’ They answered him: ‘‘ There 
are special societies for burying the dead.’’ And he thereupon 
said to them: ‘‘ If such is the case, you are absolved.”’ R. 
Jehudah in the name of Rabh said again: ‘“ One who laments 
excessively over a deceased may be sure to have to do so over 
another deceased.’’ There lived a woman in the neighborhood 


of R. Huna who had seven sons. Once one of them died, and * 


she was weeping very much. R. Huna sent her a message not 
to do so, but she paid no attention to it, and R. Huna sent her 
the following message: “‘ If you listen to what I say, well and 
good; if not, you may as well prepare a shroud for another of 
your sons.’’ Subsequently another son died, and one by one 
all of them died. He then said to her: ‘‘ Now prepare a shroud 
for yourself.’’ And she also died. 

C. The corpse must not be carried out when near the time 
of reading Shema: it must be done an hour sooner or later, 
When the bearers of the hearse go out, those in front of it, as 
their services are required, are exempt from reading Shema, but 
are prohibited to wear their shoes; those who are behind it, 
however, as their services are not required, are obliged to read 
Shema and are allowed to wear their shoes. Both are exempt 
from prayer and phylacteries. If on their return from the burial 
there is yet time to begin and finish Shema before standing in 
line, they first read, and stand in line afterward; otherwise they 
stand in line first, and read and pray afterward. The inside row 
which sees the mourner is exempt from it; the outside, how- 
ever, isnot. R. Jehudah said: Even if there is but one row, if 
they stand for the sake of the mourner, they are exempt; but if 
they stand for the sake of their own honor, they are not. The 
people who come to console, if they see the mourner they are 
exempt, otherwise they are not. 

D. R. Simeon b. Elazar said: Rabban Gamaliel had a pre- 
pared sepulchre at Jamnia, wherein they used to deposit the 
corpse and lock the door. After that they came to stand in line 
around the mourner and consoled him; through this they ex- 
empted the public from doing these duties, and subsequently 
the corpse was brought up to ‘Jerusalem. 

The rabbis taught: At first in the houses of the rich 
(mourners), silver and gold baskets and white glass were used; 


ee ey a ee 








EBEL RABBATHI, OR SEMA’HOTH.. ~— 47 


and in those of the poor, willow baskets and colored glass were 
used, and the poor felt ashamed; and it was enacted that only 
willow baskets and colored glass should be used by all. At first 
they used to leave the face of the deceased uncovered and used 
to carry him on an expensive bier if he belonged to the rich 
class; but they used to cover his face (for their faces grew dim 
from hunger) and carry him on a common bier if he belonged 
to the poor class, and the poor people felt ashamed. So it was 
enacted that all should be covered and be carried on a common 
bier. At first they used to carry the rich in braided beds, and 
the poor in common ones, and the poor felt ashamed, and it was 
enacted that all should be borne in a common bed. At first 
spices used to be placed at the side of those who died from 
bowel-troubles, and those who suffered from that disease while 
still living used to feel ashamed; and it was enacted that spices 
should be placed at the side of every deceased person out of 
respect to those who were suffering from that disease while still 
living. At first the expenses accompanying the burial of a de- 
ceased person were more burdensome and painful to his rela- 
tives than the death itself, and they used to leave the corpse 
and run away, until Rabban Gamaliel, the Nasi, directed that 
he be buried in flaxen garments; and it became customary with 
the people to bury the dead in flaxen garments. Said R. Papa: 
“* And at present, even in a flaxen garment of the value of one 
Zuz.”’ 

When the grave is closed, the mourner wraps up his head:! 
when ready for the line, he bares it and exempts the others from 
doing it; if he steps outside the line, he covers it again; when 
he comes home and others come to visit him, he bares it again 
and exempts the others from doing it.? 

£. When a death occurs in the family of a sage or a disciple 
of a sage, they may come and discuss about the laws of mourn- 
ing before him. If they err, he may set them right half-heart- 
edly; but himself must not propound a question. He may 
speak himself, if he so desires, or he may permit another to 





D. *See above, p. 27. * The literal translation of the text is to 
cover and to bare the head, and it may be that the custom was 
already in vogue, to honor those present in baring the head, as Paul 
required to bare the head in the house of prayer. We, however, 
translated “‘ wrap up,’’ in accordance with the text, page cited, and 
in accordance with other commentators. 


48 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


speak for him. It happened that the son of R. Jehudah died, 
and the latter permitted another to speak for him; so also did — 
R. Jose the Galilean when his son died. It happened to R. 
Agqiba that his son died, and he sat and lectured all day; so also 
did Rabbi when his son died. If it is necessary to discuss about 
something, they must begin concerning the laws of mourning, 
and then branch off to other matters, and finish again in regard 
to mourning. In Judah, on the Sabbath they greet the mourner 
on entering and leaving the college, to show that no mourning 
exists on the Sabbath. 


CHAPTER XI. 


A. When two deaths occur in town, the one that died first 
is buried first; and if the first has to be left over night, the sec- 
ond is buried. And although it is said: Whoever leaves his 
dead over night transgresses a negative commandment,’ still, if 
it is done for the purpose of digging a grave, to prepare shrouds, 
or to enable his outside relatives to attend to his funeral, it does 
not matter. If a master and a pupil die on the same day, the 
master is buried first; a pupil and a common man, the pupil is 
buried first. If both are masters, or pupils, or common men, 
the one that died first is buried first. AA man and a woman, the 
woman is buried first, because the latter is more liable to become 
disgusting. 

B. These are the differences between a man and a woman: 





CHAPTER XI. 


A. * The negative commandment is Deut. xxi. 23, although it 
is spoken only of one hanged by judicial decree. It seems to us, 
however, that it only means that the corpse must be taken away 
from the house in which it died, and not that it must be buried on 
the same day; and this we do for two reasons: first, because it 
would be a contradiction to what is said above that they deposited 
the corpse in a prepared grave, and also that they examine the deed 
the first three days; and second, if it meant that it must be buried 
the same day, the Talmud would say that he transgresses a positive 
commandment also, as further on the verse says, ‘‘ But thou shalt 
surely bury him on that day.’’ However, the expression ‘‘ negative 
commandment ’”’ is taken from the corrections of Elias Wilna, who 
took it from the Talmud elsewhere. 





EBEL RABBATHI, OR SEMA’HOTH. 49 


A man may be left in the street to hold an oration over him, but 
not a woman; the greatest man of the city may accompany a 
man, but he is not to be troubled for a woman. R. Jehudah 
said: He may; the funeral meal is taken over a man, but not 
overa woman. Said R. Jehudah: If she has little children, the 
meal is taken with them. 

C. They do not stand in line, nor is the mourning benedic- 
tion said after the burial of the first, but after the second; then 
they do all this, and console, and exempt the public from doing 
so. Two mourners may not be consoled together, unless they 
are in the very same position in the community. The same is 
the case with two corpses to be carried in one hearse: An acci- 
dent happened in the city of Usha wherein a house tumbled down 
and killed two male children and one female child, and R. Jehu- 
dah ordered that all three should be carried together. The male 
children were put on one side, and the female on the other, and 
they lamented over them: ‘‘ Woe, woe, bridegroom! Woe, 
bride!’’ Two funeral orations may not be held in one town at 
the same time, unless there is enough attendance for both. The 
same is the case with two brides, they must not be married at 
the same time, unless there is enough attendance for both. R. 
Simeon b. Elazar said: Even in this case it is not advisable to 
do so, because there may be enmity.' 

D. The corpse must be set aside for a bride,’ because the 
honor of the living precedes that of the dead. A bride, how- 
ever, must be set aside for a king, for the honor of the king. 
King Agrippa, however, stepped aside for the sake of a bride, 
and he was praised by the sages. His remark was: “‘I have 
time to put on my crown every day, and she can put on her 
crown only once in her lifetime.’’ 

£. The study of the Law (in the colleges) must not be inter- 
rupted for the sake of a burial or a bride. Abba Saul, however, 
said: The performance of meritorious deeds has preference over 
study, as was the custom of R. Jehudah. Whenever he saw a 
funeral or a bridal party coming, he glanced at the disciples, tell- 





C. *Enmity may be caused between certain persons and the 
bride, why they went to the other wedding and nottohers. He, 
therefore, differs only in the case of a marriage, but not in the case 
of a funeral. 

D. *It means when they meet together at the gate or on a nar- 
row street. 


50 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


ing them: The performance supersedes study. If one of the 


parents of a married couple die, the woman must not paint 
nor adorn herself, and her husband must not protest against it. 
Sweeping, washing glasses, and making of the beds is not con- 
sidered as labor to a mourner. 

The rabbis taught: ‘‘ The mourner’s house may be swept 
and besprinkled, and the dishes, glasses, flasks, and jugs may 
be rinsed, but no gum to be put on coal, or spices, may be 
brought to the mourner’s house.’’ Must it not? But has not 
Bar Qappara taught: “‘ No benediction is pronounced over gums 
(to be put on coal) or spices in the mourner’s house’’; from 
which it is inferred that only the benediction is not pronounced, 
but they may be brought there? These present no difficulty: 
the first statement relates to the place where the mourner is sit- 
ting; the statement of Bar Qappara, to the place where the 
consolers are sitting. | 

F. If one leaves five sons, who were at his table, but each 
one slept at his own house, each one must lower his couch in his 
own house, otherwise the performance is made only in the house 
which is used for sleeping. If, however, there were five rooms, 
and all were used, it must be done in all. One lodging in another’s 
house, if he is intimate with his host, he must lower his couch, 
otherwise he need not. One who is on a journey and hears of 
the death of one of his near relatives, if he can lower his couch 
without any difficulty, he may do so. One may turn over his 
couch on two benches, or on four stones, no matter if there were 
even five mattresses on top of it, and was four spans above the 
ground, provided the legs of the couch are in the air. This, how- 
ever, is after the burial; but when the corpse is in the house, he 
may not sleep even on an upturned couch. 

G. The performance of lowering the couch is sometimes for 
six days, and sometimes for five, four, and three days, no more, 
no less. Howso? If the death occurred on a week-day, it is 
for six days; if in the afternoon of the eve of Sabbath, it is for 
five days; if a festival succeeds this Sabbath, for four days; and 
if the two days of New Year succeed this Sabbath, it is for three 
days.! 





G. * The Mishna was taught before the existing calendar was 
made, as since then New Year cannot fall on Sunday. 





EBEL RABBATHI, OR SEMA’ HOTH. sr 


CHAPTER XII. 


A. Renting on a death, the mourning of seven and. thirty 
days, begin from the day of burial, or from the day he was 
informed, if he was not present. For whom one is obliged to 
rend at the time of death, he is also obliged when gathering his 
bones from one grave to be put into another. Also the law of 
sewing together the rent applies to that for gathering bones; the 
mourning, however, is only for one day, and the night belonging 
to that day does not belong to the day of mourning. 

The rabbis taught: A recent information makes customary 
both the seven and the thirty days; a remote information, how- 
ever, makes customary only one day’s mourning. What is a 
recent, and what a remote information? A recent—if within 
thirty days; a remote—if after thirty days. Such is the dictum 
of R. Agiba. The sages, however, hold either case makes cus- 
tomary both the seven and the thirty days. Said Rabba bar 
bar Hana in the name of R. Johanan: ‘‘ Whenever it is found 
that the majority is rigorous and the individual is lenient, the 
Halakha prevails according to the majority, with the exception 
of this case here, in which, although the majority is rigorous, 
still the Halakha prevails according to the individual’’ (R. 
Agiba). As Samuel stated: ‘‘In the case of mourning the 
Halakha prevails according to the one who is lenient.’’ R. 
Hanina received information of the death of his father from the 
city of Husai, and he consulted R. Hisda. The latter said to 
him: “‘ A remote information causes mourning for one day 
only.’’ R. Nathan bar Ami received information of the death 
of his mother from the same place, and he consulted Rabha, 
who said to him: ‘‘ Are you not aware of what was said in 
regard to a remote information ?’’ And the former objected: 
‘* Have we not learned that this is so only in regard to the five 
cases of relatives whom one is bound to bury (son, daughter, 
brother, sister, and wife); but as regards father and mother, the 


seven and thirty days must also be observed?’’ And he 
answered him: ‘‘ The Tana of the Boraitha is an individual 
(in his opinion), and we do not concur with him.’’ As we 


have learned in the following: It happened that the father of R. 
Zadok died in the city of Ginsak, and he was informed after 
three years, and he went and asked Elisha b. Abajah and the 
Elders who were with him, and they told him he shall keep seven 


52 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


and thirty. The same occurred when the son of R. A’hiya died 
in exile, and his father has performed for him the mournings of° 
seven and thirty (hence the above Boraitha is in accordance with 
the individual, and not according to R. Aqiba. And from the 
following we can see also that the Halakha does not prevail ac- 
cording to Elisha b. Abajah, namely,) Rabh was the son of the 
brother of R. Hyya on his father’s side, and also the son of his 
sister on his mother’s side. And when Rabh came to Palestine, 
R. Hyya asked him: Isthy father alive? And he answered: My 
mother is alive. Then R. Hyya asked again: Is your mother 
really alive yet? And he answered: My father is alive.’ Then 
R. Hyya told his servant: Take off my shoes; but a little later 
you shall take my garments in the wash-house. From this we 
have learned three things: First, that a mourner must not wear 
shoes; second, that a remote-information mourning is customary 
for only one day ; and, third, that a part of the day is considered 
as a whole day.’ 

B. There were different societies in Jerusalem, and each of 
them had to attend to different things. One was to attend 
mourners; one to attend marriages; one to attend circumcision 
or redeeming of a first-born male child, and one for removing the 
bones from one grave to another. The attendance to a bride’s 
house precedes a mourner’s house; circumcision or the redeem- 
ing of a first-born male child precedes the removal of bones. The 
ancient pious, however, preferred to go to a house of mourning 
instead of the house of a bride, as it is written [Eccl. vii. 2]: “It is 
better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of 
feasting ; inasmuch as that is the end of all men, and let the liv- 
ing lay it to his heart,” as whoever follows the bier, knows that 
this will happen also to him. 

1We have learned in a Boraitha: R. Meir used to say: It is 
written [Eccl. vii. 2]: “It is better to go to the house of mourn- 





CHAPTER XII. 


A, ‘In the ancient times one was very careful not to bring a bad 
message; and even when asked, as the Talmud prohibits it, he would 
give evasive replies. * This is inferred from what R. Hyya told his 
servant—to bring his garments into the wash-house, that, after he 
had mourned a part of the day, on the remaining part he might do 
all he liked. 

B. ’ Gemara from Moed Katan. 





EBEL RABBATHI, OR SEMA’HOTH. 53 


ing than,” etc., “and let the living lay it to his heart,” which 
means, let the living lay to his heart matters connected with 
one’s death—viz., when he laments over him, that he will also 
be lamented over; when he buries him, that he will also be 
buried; when carrying him, that he will also be carried; and 
when eulogizing him, that he will also be eulogized. According 
to others one who is modest, and troubles himself with burying 
the dead, will be elevated by Heaven, as it is written [Prov. xxv. 
7|: “For better it is that it be said unto thee, Come up higher, 
than that thou shouldst be put lower in the presence of the 
prince, which thy own eyes have (often) seen.’’? 

The rabbis taught: When the sons of R. Ishmael died, four 
elder sages came to console with him; viz., R. Tarphon, R. Jose 
the Galilean, R. Elazar b. Azariah, and R. Aqiba. Said R. 
Tarphon to the other three: “ You must know that he (R. Ish- 
mael) is very wise and he is well versed on Agada, and there- 
fore none of you must intrude when the other will be speaking.” 
Said R. Aqiba: “ And I will be the last one.”” R. Ishmael began : 
“His sins have increased, his mournings have succeeded one 
another, and he has inconvenienced his instructors once and 
twice.” R. Tarphon then arose and said: “It is written [Lev. 
x.6]: ‘But your brethren, the whole house of Israel, may bewail 
the burning,’ etc. If this was ordered over the death of Nadob 
and Abihu, who have observed only one commandment, as it is 
written [ibid. ix. 9]: ‘And the sons of Aaron brought the blood 
unto him,’ etc.,so much the more so over the death of the 
sons of R. Ishmael.” R. Jose then followed and said: “It is 
written [I Kings, xiv. 13]: ‘ And all Israel shall mourn for him, 
and bury him.’ If so much was done for Abiyah the son of 
Jeroboam, who has performed one kind deed only, as it is written 
[ibid., ibid.]: ‘ Because there had been found in him some good 
thing,’ so much the more so over the death of the sons of R. 
Ishmael.”” [What was the good thing? R. Zera and R. Hanina 
bar Papa: one says that he suspended his office and made a 
pilgrimage to Jerusalem on the feasts; the other says: he has 
abolished the guards which were established by his father to pre- 
vent the pilgrimage to Jerusalem.] R. Elazar b. Azariah then 
began: “It is written [Jerem. xxxiv. 5]: ‘In peace shalt thou 
die ; and as burnings were made for thy fathers,’ etc., if so much 





* We must leave this without any explanation, as there are no commentaries for 
this besides Eidlis in his ‘* Hidushe-Agadoth,” and it is too complicated to be trans- 
lated here. 


54 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


was done for Zedekiah the king of Judah, who performed only 
one meritorious thing in that he ordered to bring up Jeremiah 
from the pit filled with mire, so much the more so over the sons 
of R. Ishmael.” Finally, R. Aqiba began: “ It is written [Zech. 
xii. 11]: ‘On that day will the lamentations be great in Jeru- 
salem like the lamentation at Hadadrimmon in the valley of 
Megiddon.’ [And R. Joseph said: If not the translation of 
Jonathan of this passage, namely : On that day will the lamenta- 
tions be great in Jerusalem, like the lamentation for A’hab bar 
Omri, who was killed by Hadadrimmon bar Tabrimmon, and like 
the lamentations for Josiah bar Amon, who was killed by Pharaoh 
the Lame in the valley of Megiddon, I would not know its mean- 
ing.] If so much over A’hab the king of Israel, who has done 
only one good thing, as it is written [1 Kings, xx. 35]: ‘And the 
king was stayed up in his chariot against the Syrians’ (to prevent 
the defeat of Israel), so much the more for the sons of R. Ish- 
mael.” Rabha said to Rabba bar Mari: Zedekiah was promised 
that he would die in peace, and still it is written [Jerem. xxxix. 7]: 
“And the eyes of Zedekiah did he blind?” (How was the 
promise to die in peace fulfilled?) He answered him: “So said 
R. Johanan: (It was fulfilled) that Nebuchadnezar died in his’ 
time.” Rabha further said to Rabba bar Mari: Josiah was 
promised [II Kings, xxii. 20]: ‘“‘ Therefore, behold, I will gather 
thee unto thy fathers, and thou shalt be gathered unto thy grave 
in peace.” And still it is written [II Chron. xxxv. 23]: “And the 
archers shot the king Josiah?”’ And he answered him: “So said 
R. Johanan: (The promise was fulfilled in that) the Temple was 
not destroyed during his life-time.” 

8R. Johanan said: “ The consolers are not permitted to speak 
consolation before the mourner engages in conversation, as it is 
written [Job, ii. 13]: “But no one spoke a word unto him,” etc.; 
[ibid. iii. 1]: “‘ After this time Job opened his mouth,” etc.; and 
only [ibid. iv. 1]: “Then answered Eliphaz,” etc. (These quota- 
tions are according to Na’hmanidus.) R.Abbuhu said: Whence 
do we know that the mourner takes his seat at the head of the 
consolers? It is written [ibid. xxix. 25]: “I chose their way for 
them, and sat as chief,” etc., “as the mourners being comforted ” 
(read OF). Mar Zutra said: “From the following passage 


[Amos, vi. 7]: ‘And the noisy banquet of those who were 





B. * Gemara from Moed Katan. 





EBEL RABBATHI, OR SEMA’HOTH. 55 


stretched out shall pass away?’* R. Hama bar Hanina said: 
Whence do we know that a bridegroom takes his -seat at the 
head of the guests? It is written [Isa. lxi. 10]: “As a bride- 
groom decketh himself with elegant attire.” (The Hebrew read- 
ing: “ Ke’hathan yechaehn pééar,’”’ “ Hathan” meaning a bride- 
groom, and “ yechaehn ” having the same letters as “cohen,” a 
priest), as a priest sits at the head, so also does a bridegroom. 
R. Hanina said: “ The separation of the soul from the body is as 
difficult as the removal of a knotty rope from the mast.” R. 
Johanan said: “It is as difficult as the removal of a knotty rope 
holding the masts of two ships together.” 

The bones and the veins must not be taken apart when 
gathering them; it must not be feared, however, that this will 
happen while gathering them. All bones one may handle while 
gathering, except that of his parents, which must be handled by 
others. Such is the decree of Rabbi Johanan b. Nuri; R. Agiba, 
however, said: As the bones are not allowed to be gathered till 
the flesh is all destroyed, and the form is not recognized any 
longer, it does not matter even if they are his parents’. 

C: The bones of two corpses may be gathered together, but 
he shall keep them separate in a casket; he shall put one’s in one 
corner, and the other’s in another. So is the decree of R. Aqiba. 
R. Johanan b. Nuri, however, said: There is not any need for 
keeping the bones separated, as the basket in which they will be 
buried will finally be rotten, and the bones will be mixed again; 
if, however, he desires that they shall be separate, he shall bury 
them in caskets of cedar.? 





* The Hebrew text reads: ‘‘ Vesor mirsah seru’him.” The letter Samech has the 
same sound as the left-pointed Shin, and therefore ‘‘ vesor” has the same meaning as 
if written with a left-pointed ‘‘ Shin,” viz., ‘‘a chief.” ‘‘ Mirsah” is given the same 
meaning of ‘‘ Mirseah ” [Jer. xvi. 5], a mourner—z.¢., the mourner became chief of 
the seru’him, those who were stretched out (the comforters), by taking his seat at the 
head. 

C. There is difficulty in understanding the. meaning of R. Jo- 
hanan b. Nuri, as there are many errors in the text, which were cor- 
rected by different commentators. What we understand is, that in 
their time they had different baskets or coffin-like boxes, Aphikarsin, 
in which bones were gathered and buried with them; and R. Agiba 
maintains that although it is allowed to put together the bones of 
two bodies in one basket, they must nevertheless not be mixed 
together; and R. Johanan b. Nuri maintains that it is no use sepa- 
rating them, and advises what one shall do when he wishes them to 
be kept separate. 


56 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


D. The bones may be sprinkled with wine or oil, according 
to R. Agiba; with oil and not wine, because wine destroys them, _ 
according to Simeon b. Nanes; the sages, however, maintain that 
they may not be sprinkled with any of these, but cover with dust. 

£. Said R. Eliezer b. Zadok: So my father commanded me: 
When I will die, you shall first bury me in a valley, then gather 
my bones, and put them ina cedar casket; but you shall not 
handle them yourself, and so I did. Johanan entered the grave 
and gathered (the bones) and spread over them a chest protector, 
and then I entered, rent my garments over them, and covered 
them with a sheet. I did to my father as he has done to his. It 
is not allowed for a man to wrap and tie up the corpse of a 
woman; a woman, however, may do so to a man.’ The same is 
the case when a woman suffers in her intestines, a man must not 
examine nor attend her; a woman, however, is allowed to do so 
to a man. 

F. Abba Saul b. Botnith said in his will to his sons: Bury me 
at the feet of my father, and take off the Tzitzith' from my a- 
lium. 

1G. With all relatives one is allowed to bathe, except with his 
father, father-in-law, his stepfather, the husband of his sister, and 
the instructor from whom he received his wisdom. R. Jehudah, © 
however, said: If his father was old or sick he may enter the 
bath-house and bathe him, for it is in his honor. 

A hearse is not used unless the head and the greater part of 
the corpse are there. R. Jehudah said: The backbone and the 
skull are considered as the greater part of the body. 

Hi. It happened with the son of R. Hanina b. Teradion, who 
associated with bad company and became a robber and was exe- 
cuted, when, after three days, he was found all swollen, his re- 
mains were put in a cage and that in a hearse, and was brought 





£. * Because a man is more excitable than a woman. 

Ff. * Tzitzith—the fringes (see Numb. xv. 38)—and Padum in our 
times is called Tallith, in which the show-fringes are put in, and are 
worn during prayer. 

G. *Speaking above of men who must not see the body of a 
woman, the Mishna tells also that it is not customary for a son to 
see his father or his father-in-law, whom he must respect, naked. 
As to the husband of his sister, however, there must be another 
reason—lest he see some deformity in his body, and inform his 
sister of it. 





EBEL RABBATHI, OR SEMA’HOTH. 57 


in the city. They wanted to lament him for the sake of his 
parents, but the father did not let them do so; he instead ex- 
claimed on him the following [Prov. v. 11-14]: “While thou 
moanest.at thy end, when thy flesh and thy body are coming to 
their end, thou sayest: ‘ How have I hated correction, and how 
hath my heart rejected reproof, while I hearkened not to the 
voice of my instructors, and to my teachers I inclined not my 
ear; but little more was wanting and I had been in all (kinds of) 
unhappiness in the midst of the congregation and assembly.’”’ 
His mother also exclaimed over him the following passage [ibid. 
xvii. 25]: “A foolish son is a vexation to his father, and bitter- 
ness to her that hath borne him.” His sister also exclaimed the 
following [ibid. xx. 17]: “ Bread of falsehood is pleasant to a 
man, but afterward his mouth will be filled with gravel stones.” 


CHAPTER XIII. 


A. One who gathers or guards the bones is exempt from read- 
ing Shema, prayer, and all the precepts commanded in the Torah, 
and if he desires to be rigorous with himself, he must not do so, 
for the honor of the dead. R. Johanan b. Nuri, however, said: 
He should step outside a distance of four ells and read. Ben 
Azai said: If they were with him in a boat he should remove 
them to another place and read. R. Itzhak said: Only from the 
bones of relatives he is exempt; from strangers, however, he is 
not. R. Simeon said: He is exempt only on week-days, but not 
on Sabbath. R. Nathan, howevet, said: He is exempt only 
when the bundle (of the bones) is on his shoulders, because the 
duty of guarding it is on him, but not of prayer. 

B. One who removes bones or the Scriptures from one place 
to another, must not place them in a wagon, a boat, nor on a 
beast under his seat: however, in order to preserve them from 
thieves or robbers, he may.' 

C. It is not allowed to pass through a cemetery with the 
phylacteries on, nor the Scriptures in the hand, as it is considered 
disrespectful to the dead.! 





CHAPTER XIII. 


B. * Corrected from Berachoth. 
C. * The reason is explained in Berachoth, because the dead are 
exempt from all the commands given in the Law. 


58 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


D. One finding a corpse in a grave must not move it, unless 
he is certain that the place was only borrowed for him. One 
finding bones on marshy ground, must put them in a grave, 
Such is the decree of R. Aqiba. The sages, however, say: He 
must not move them. One who finds bones in a grotto or a 
cavity must not move them. A corpse or his bones must not be 
moved from one place to another, even if they are equal in 


esteem, much less if the other place is lower; he may, however, . 


do so from a lower to a higher place. However, if he moves 
them to a place on his estate, he is allowed to do so, even if the 
former place is more esteemed.} 

Two corpses must not be buried in one grave, nor a corpse with 
bones, and vice versa. R. Jehudah, however, said: If they used 
to sleep together when alive, they may be buried together. 

£. A building over a grave which was vacated, no benefit 
may be derived from it ; if, however, it was excavated in a rock, 
and also the grave itself, when it was vacated a benefit may be 
derived from it; nevertheless, it must not be used for low pur- 
poses, such as a cow-house, straw-barn, etc. A grave which was 
dug for a person who was yet alive may be sold; but if for one 
who was already dead, it may not. The same is the case with 
monumental stones. 

No benefit may be derived from a vacated coffin. If it is 








made of stone or clay, it must be broken, and if of wood— — 


burned. Boards of the cemetery must not be moved from their — 


place. 
CHAPTER XIV. 


A. A cemetery must not be considered vilely; ¢.g., no aque- 
duct may be drawn through it, nor a path made; no cattle must 


feed there, nor may one use it as a compendiarius, nor pick wood ~ 


or grass therefrom. If he has picked he must derive no benefit 
from it, and if he picked them only to clean the grave, he must 
burn them on the same place. 

8. Though inheritances are movable from place to place and 
changed from one family to another, with graves, however, it is 
different ; they are not movable or changeable from one family to 
another. A new grave may be measured, divided, and sold, but 





D. *It means to say that the estate belonged to the deceased, as 
it is agreeable to one to be buried on his own grounds. 





EBEL RABBATHI, OR SEMA’HOTH. 59 


not an old one; there is, however, a new one which must be con- 

sidered as old, and wice versa, namely: When there were in an 
old grave even ten corpses, but were buried without the permis- 
sion of the owner, it must be considered as a new grave and may 
be measured, divided, and sold; if, however, it was with his per- 
mission, even if it was a miscarriage, it must be considered an old 
one, and nothing may be done with it. 

C. No occupancy must be considered with the graves of the 
exiles; ¢.g., in time of a pest or war, the graves are not secured 
to the corpses by occupancy.!' R. Simeon b. Gamaliel said: Mis- 
carriages do not acquire their graves, the same is the case with 
all who are buried without the permission of the owner. A 
woman who has inherited a grave, she and her offspring are to be 
buried init. Such isthe decree of R. Meir; R. Jehudah, however, 
said: She, but not her offspring; however, he owns that all her 
offspring who existed during her life, may be buried with her. If 
her father requires she should be buried in his grave, and her hus- 
band says in his, the father has the preference; if she has chil- 
dren, then the husband has the preference; if her will states that 
she shall be buried with her children, it should be done so. If 
the father says she should be buried with her husband, or vice 
versa, she is buried with her husband, because it is his duty to 
feed, redeem, and bury her, and he must provide all the neces- 
saries, such as a hearse, flutes, and mourners, and where an ora- 
tion is held, he must provide also that. If he declines to do all 
that, it is done by the court on his account against his will. 

D. There are three kinds of graves: One that is found,’ one 
that is known, and one which injures the public. The first is 
permissible to vacate, and if it was vacated, the place is clean, 
and a benefit may be derived from it; the second is not permis- 
sible to vacate; if it was vacated, the place is unclean,? and no - 





CHAPTER XIV. 


C. * The Hebrew term for occupancy is Hazakah, which means 
a surety—that is, if the property is in the possession of one a long 
time it is sure to be his, even if he has no documents for it. 

D. *It means that if it was found that there was a corpse buried 
without the permission of the owner, the place, after it is vacated, 
is considered clean, because no precautionary measures were taken 
for such aone. *A precautionary measure was taken to consider all 
graves unclean, even after their vacation, lest one use the ground 
when they are not yet vacated. 


60 ‘THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


benefit may be derived from it; and the third is permissible to 
vacate ; the place is clean,’ but no benefit may be derived from it. 

£. A cemetery which surrounds the city on three sides, must 
be vacated; if on two sides, if they were opposite they can re- 
main; if they were joined, they must be removed.' All graves — 
may be removed for the necessity of the community. R, 
Aqiba, however, said: With the exception of those of a king 
and a prophet, as there was the grave of the prophetess Huldah, 
in Jerusalem, and it was never touched. His contemporaries re- 
joined: That is no proof, as there was a cavern from the grave to 
the brook Kidron, which drew off the uncleanness.* 

F. One who sells the graves of his family, (it is considered as 
if) he did nothing. The same is the case if he sold the plore of 
lamenting. The rabbis taught: One who sold his grave,! the 
way to it, or standing-place, and the house of lamenting, his fam- 
ily may come and reclaim them against his will, because it is a 
disgrace to the family that they should be sold to someone else. 

G, The rabbis taught:! There must be not less than seven 
standings and sittings after the burial,? to signify the seven times 
“vanity’’ is mentioned in Ecclesiastes [i. 2]: “ Vanity of vani- 
_ ties, saith Koheleth, vanity of vanities: all is vanity.” Said R. 

A’ha the son of Rabha to R. Ashi: Explain me how they used 
to do,’ and he rejoined: As we have learned in the following 
Boraitha: R. Jehudah said: Formerly in Jehudah they have 





D. *¥or the sake of the public, no precautionary measure is to 
be taken for this. 

£. * Taken from Tract Nazir, Palestinian Talmud, as the Mishna 
here is very complicated, after all the different corrections of the 
commentaries. * There is a law concerning defilement, that a hole 
of one span which reaches the air draws off the uncleanness. This 
will be explained in Tract Teharoth. 

f. ‘It was the custom then that each family iad cares for the 
purpose of burying there the members of the family. The standing 
place means where the consolers stood or sat after the burial, and it 
was near the grave, and there was also a place where the lamenters 
stood. 

G. ’ Transferred from Baba Bathra, 1006. *The custom was 
that when they returned from the burial they used to walk a few 
steps and then sit down and console the mourners or weep for the 
dead, and then rise and go on; and to repeat this seven times, so 
that they should remember the life of a human being is but vanity 
of vanities. °As in our place it is not customary. 





EBEL RABBATHI, OR SEMA’HOTH. 61 


made not less than seven standings and sittings for a dead body, 
and the funeral director used to say: “ Arise, dearests, arise!” 
and “ Sit down, dearests, sit down!” Said the sages to him: If 
that was all, let them do so also on the Sabbath.‘ The sister of 
Rama bar Papa was the wife of R. Ivjah, and she died. He 
made for her a standing and a sitting. Said R. Joseph: He has 
erred in two things. First, this do only the relatives of the second 
degree, who are not obliged to mourn, and he was one of the 
mourners; and, secondly, this is to be done only on the day of 
burial, and he did so on the day after. Said Abayi: He has also 
erred in this: It is usually done near the cemetery, and he did 
this in the city. Said Rabha: He erred also in this: It is only 
done where it is customary, and in his place it was not customary 
at all. An objection was raised: It is said above that the sages 
said to R. Jehudah: “If that was all, let them do also on the 
Sabbath.” Now if this is to be done only in the cemetery, and 
on the first day, can this occur on Sabbath? The answer was: 
They meant to say, in a city which is near the cemetery, and 
when the consolers returned from the funeral which ended at 
twilight. 

Whoever reminds a mourner of his dead after twelve months 
are over, is to be blamed for renewing his wound. Said R. 
Simeon b. Gamaliel: One whose wife died and has married again 
within a twelvemonth, one who wishes to talk to him about his 
dead, shall do so in the market, but not in his house. 

All eatables may be brought to the house of a mourner—oval- 
shaped bread, meat, and fish; and if an assembly does that, also 
herbs and pulse. Rabban Simeon b. Gamaliel said: Where it is 
customary, even cooked food. 

H. Ten goblets of wine have the sages ordered in the mourn- 
ing house: three before eating, to give an appetite; three during 
the meal, to soften the food in the stomach, and four after the 
meal, for the four blessings contained in the after-meal bene- 
diction. Afterwards they have added four more: one for the 
sake of the sections of the city who have occupied themselves 
with the burial ; one for the sake of the presidents of the congre- 
gations (for their advancing money for the sake of the burial of 
the poor); one for the Temple (to console for its destruction), 





G. *If that was all, without lamentation, it could be done also on 
the Sabbath, if they returned from burial on the eve of Sabbath at 
sunset, 











THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. — ot 


and one in memory of Rabban Gamalie! (who was the fis Ost 
command to be buried in linen garments, as said above). When 
the sages have seen that they became drunk, ened have restored 
the original number. : 

One who pronounces the meal benediction in the house ofa ae 
mourner, what shall he say in the fourth blessing? ‘The good 
One who does good to all.” R. Agiba, however, said: “The 
truthful Judge, the Ruler of His creatures. O give thanks unto 
the Lord, for He is good; because unto eternity endureth His 
kindness.” 4 





H. * This passage is brought here at the conclusion of this tract, 
as it is usual to conclude each tract with a good expression. 


END OF TRACT EBEL RABBATHI (GREAT MOURNING) AND THE 
WHOLE SECTION OF FESTIVALS. 


" LIBRARY 


ras ra ts ud f rt oe | —LStl 
Gre a iar Sacre Segoe Eee B 





yi 
Lia 


he 
iy hi ' 
; 1 ae 





CAVEN LIBRARY. 


KNOX COLLEGE 





TORONTO 























SSEEES ELE E s 








































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































2 Re 
” * 
ss Be 
“, hs 
~: “he 
ot Ke 
= g 
3 £ 
K +4 * r 
S25 age S: 
Min te Pe | . + of 
shatete sete? PPh <= ys is ne 
gta tee weeks 36 ae 
caus aes ‘ 
$ page Satine 7 
> Soest Re 
Netates SSSE SS < 
etene * wn tas ece te: 5 
24, + .* > ~ << os) 
Rate Scta hs Sad oe Sd Sasa seer ager e: ratetas = + 
SPIE ME SLL MeL ee Pee Pe Se se 
<3 eatetate > ORES Ss Sota f: 
. Pe PEL PU eD ty 
7 ietete ie 
oe re feta tes. FIAT ef 
Ss Sietete: a Fetcte: < M 
Seis Ne eseces Spa aPaees ee. YY 
e < oN - 
Se SeSTee ~ af aN 
< 4 > *. « . 
ais . SESS 5 
< < POF ee ee eT N 
Gece tise tees eit > 
Ros ca sese$ tates. a tetaty fata tate hte te te SS 
<. a 
SES *, a, ?5 ‘4 
> Sesetesetasegae . ease Yas eS iy 
Soa esos nore pony evens Se Sete Sete ne > 
Soeeoc oe re pe ne P ~ et teeta S 4 
ReSSthsiesretati save snetananege sats Mieeaenete is 
a pesevesaserasends faseisieseiesete: Ae 
etetetetes 25 eer ere See ASG ee bs 
>t >. eses eas etete . 
ape gass eK Ceees Seis hetesete 7 : i 
SERS nef aSe5 Sees - +> Patek Mate t ate 
<4 < < cS MOOG e144, 
sagas iS or bror erat Fetetete®: 
8s <3 SesaiessSs SeSe Se: duaesecatetacass be : 
$25 e045 “« 42S. , 2 Sat ghee eters <4 ‘04 e are 
Meets n> < eaateke > < Pate te tase ete al tate te gti te ete is. 
esate eS goes She Deheo Rehr pa on bebe be ee oe ea be beh ob WE Pal & 
appt Spee? shpepepae wert hl ator peop mnoe ee os eictetetus *. 
> Sates ese Sete tee Satesetesé jase faseses. Sate Se tes cletateteto tats tesote Se i 
> Se < to} 
ese Reciek< eS Haseseseke te Dep reret ee) aa RSaSdsekccesecete ee Sagte fe pees cig i 
Shes srs eeSesacas ese eStesaes Ake tates Sa tat 43 
eekesetitesetene Ma Ga ne seit secede: rte! oe 
Ses ieee as > SESER, $<3 asee << >, < 
be "4 Sree ase ese seseses ey i“ 
sees Ses 48 Sissies ‘$ x 
Pi tases 4 a 
Motae heh etee eae es, < EPSPS ye Se. Ps , 
IS esasesetcsete $3 oh Pi: apace peace esate $aS state Se% a 
POPPER ae dome & SSahete Debts eres ake e ates ate te tell og %eS is 
< Met etes shake tS l Clea Seke tes * : 
<a se menos op pr be eben) Sselehets <: aheGeres< he . 
eSeS<S: Pere? esos Ses ese eang se tetate fae i. 
Sic sees: < be Srsrerstory So gsetesases < 4 
SSNs eascaesqecssiaes edeeanideteietenceseeengeiess & 
Ra Ssstessgsecs Si SaaS Seety Sas eceatccceaness ‘k 
: x ig<$e 54 je Sesd Sehede c 
<i 4S HPI dog ea sewe Seca kesate < «<f < 
sé $255 rods Seah sities iadese eee ketate acctatatetete . 
; Soy kage te SaSege satya se e conte te Suede ta Sei ie tases: » 
eid te easeseseden caschetes Sate tang tate Sa ty fet ase te Mate 4 
: Sp Seuiecaueneie Sielanusquasieres ‘ 
esas sfetesesesatesete te wfele. be 
>t <3< SRS ae . >, < “Ke 
ae brat >r ae baebe pepe be bem at at cate tetate ta tet tay fate a naa tes 445 " 
asa Sasedeteletseesasesene ¥ sesetifeicte Sey Pabeetes Menten Dns eetiiets >) te " 
> U6 24 04 84 C404 ) + 4.4% Pa PD PLL. Pes 4nd + ; 
a Se% Sporeeathoteenshnenoey eet at efaea se gate setatats tof ¥ 
: << Sd SeSeS eS eS Sore bebe poop oc pe pron ) « “f a 
Seeeuiass See: aiys 
a5 <Geke Se Sate $< esate ; iN 
se Sesh ase’ sels taces * “\he 
etetetate tes Sagesese 4 . 
zi edeta seeds ¢ x 
eta te etas Me 
Rpg oy SSeieSs ¥ 
re ie Sahn $504 < 
esietere rere 
+2 y. , . 
sages 
aps Seis “¢ f 
MSeicsesececed , 
DyPye verb mtn : 
Rese Cees . 
eseaaes $48 BY 
See ) 
2 
eagece Sites by : 
pte tate tote tes anetate * 
+) Seisse orb brs Dear btere) ‘ 
S< 5 4 ¢. eles oS< 4 * 
Seles<e sees bate la ferent sete sege eect te . 
? > Sram rare? > 4Sites tetas te ‘ 
Prather pepe beds: 4S ay é « 
Warrtaceryerereaeap ares SPoroos 4a Ope tyt. aoe 
eke he Saha Calg ta icteta tata tpteted tient eae tetas + 
SeSecetete Raend De pepe bere ee Dede REDE ye Pel atc fatet ee 
< tes Se » refese ces eta set cteseian eta Set Cate ak 
‘, PP, <4 ae CeCe aaa tat ete eatas Bec tg tc te tg tet 
<i ras » Seager ess Aetetet the hesthe tala gt ale tits 
Sy, 45404. 474 tates st 
25 syn> AS Sesh ete < ebohe oe 
ase Ieee eet ne Ses eta tet 
te < eye 
<4 2 
ee tf 
“ « 
Peeks “ 
Debye: as 
Mate’ « 
ease Se 
yey : 
€ Leeann “i 
> pete tee 
eietese 
: 33 ate 
Metcsetecal iste 
Resneseiesieseis 
etatatesetecee “8 
Gat > ieee Segtatete 
rea StS hi Sehe sated 43 4 
(i4 atta yea beac he pee hea Len Ebb 
> ise set te Hoe te sate Scheie eke 
ry eats ue a tee ys 
< a £06, 
se seats aie 
: actee ett 
sseetice 
net esas 
Hits 








a, 






















> < 
: ete Cage eh 
: < > Secectse: spb sts 4 
: ge Sate ee 
2 5 a >>? Be GR et ete tek jt 
* Seseieserices: Sesetaseta sete. 
gee < 4k Sree save bra bot 
Nehisetetetieasencte oH Ce ekeeeieceyete’ 
Sate! "e Pe Mees et secetceetetas 
3 4. 
Sela 














<2 4 
< 
< ¢. 
wus 
he 
* 
aby i Reset 





















































#, ‘ 
Catatetcte 
Sect sege ae 

stint: . 


ey 332 
Seah es a fesese 






















































‘+ 
jtet eeee, 
tS ators 
> Rt 



















es 





eens 












































$e 
“ > 
5 
>5% “2 
38 
2 +04. 
< ¢ 4045 
< hate aoe% 
5) S05 
wr sets 
* ote 





+ 
a 
¥, 





AN 


te 





Se 
<2 


4 
see 
eset 









as 









ot 
ps 


WW) 






eA A 


a, 

rie 
ate 
ee 
a 
a 






* 
aN eh 
< 


ox 








| 





a 
ve 


























Pees sO 
Mts 


