Cihxaxy  of  trKe  CKeolo^ical  Seminar  jo 

PRINCETON  •  NEW  JERSEY 
PRESENTED  BY 

John  Stuart  Conning,  D.D, 

BM  500  .R6  1918  v. 19-20 
Talmud. 

New  edition  of  the         I 
Babylonian  Talmud 


THE  Q 

HISTORY  OF  THE   TALMUD 


fvom  tbe  Uime  ot  Its  iformation,  about 
200  J5.  C  up  to  tbe  present  'JCime 


DIVIDED  INTO  TWO  VOLUMES 

VOLUME  L  — ITS    DEVELOPMENT    AND    THE    PERSECUTIONS    SINCE    ITS 

BIRTH   UP   TO   DATE,    INCLUDING   ALL   RELIGIOUS   DISPUTES 

AND   BRIEF  BIOGRAPHIES  OF  THE  SEPARATED  SECTS 

VOLUME  II.  — THE  HISTORICAL  AND  LITERARY  INTRODUCTION  TO  THl 

NEW  EDITION:  ETHICS,  METHOD,  WITH  ILLUSTRATIONS 

CRITICISM.  ETC, 


BY 

MICHAEL  L.  RODKINSON 


Volume  II.  (XX.) 


Boston 

THE  TALMUD  SOCIETY 

1918 


Copyright,  iQoq.  by 
MICHAEL  L.  RODKINSON 


COPTKIGBT  1916,  BT 

NEW  TALMUD  PUBUSHINQ  SOCIETY 


CONTENTS  OF  VOLUME  II 


PART  I. 
CHAPTER  I. 


The  Combination  of  the  Gemara,  the  Sophrim,  and  the 
eshcalath,  also  briefly  noticed  about  mishna,  to- 

SEPHTA,   MeCHILTA,  SiPHRA  AND  SiPHRE    ....         I 

CHAPTER  II. 

The  Five  Generations  of  the  Tanaim,  with  their  Char- 
acteristics AND  Biographical  Sketches        ...      6 

CHAPTER  III. 

The  Amoraim  or  Expounders  of  the  Mishna,  The  Six 
Generations  of  the  Amoraim,  the  Palestinian  as  well 
AS  THE  Babylonian,  and  also  That  of  Sura,  Pum- 
baditha  and  Nahardea,  with  Their  Characteristics 
AND  Biographical  Sketches  22 

CHAPTER  IV. 

The  Classification  of  Halakha  and  Hagada  in  the  Con- 
tents OF  THE  Gemara.  Compilation  of  the  Palestinian 
Talmud  and  That  of  the  Babylonian  and  the  Two 
Gemaras  Compared  with  Each  Other    .        .        .        .38 

CHAPTER  V. 

Apocryphal  Appendices  to  the  Talmud  and  Commentaries. 
The  Necessity  for  Commentaries  Exclusively  on 
THE  Mishna 44 

CHAPTER  VI. 

Epitomes,  Codifications,  Manuscripts  and  Printed  Edi- 
tions OF  THE  Talmud.  Introductory.  Epitomes, 
Codes,  Collections  of  the  Hagadic  Portions  of  the 
Talmud,  Manuscripts,  and  the  both  Talmuds  in  Print    48 


iv  CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER  VII. 

PACK 

Translations  of  the  Talmud,  the  Mishnayoth  in  Many 
Modern  Languages,  the  Gemara  in  English,  and  also 
THE  Translation  of  the  Palestinian  Talmud       .        .      55 

CHAPTER  VIII. 

Bibliography  of  Modern  Works  and  Monographs  on  Tal- 
MUDic  Subjects.  Hagada,  Archaeological,  Biograph- 
ical, Chronology  and  Calendar,  Customs,  Dialectics, 
Education,  Ethics,  Exegesis,  Geography  and  History, 
Law  in  General,  Judicial  Courts,  Evidence  in  Law, 
Criminal  Law,  Civil  Law,  Inheritance  and  Testa- 
ment, Police  Law,  Law  of  Marriage  and  Divorce, 
Laws  Concerning  Slavery,  Linguistics,  Mathematics, 
Medicine,  Surgery,  Natural  History  and  Sciences, 
Parseeism  of  the  Talmud,  Poetry,  Proverbs,  Psy- 
chology, Superstition,  and  Lectures  on  the  Talmud.      58 

CHAPTER   IX. 

Why  Should  Christians  Feel  Interested  in  the  Talmud  ? 
Collections  from  Gentiles  and  Modern  Hebrew 
Scholars.  Reasons  Why  the  Talmud  Should  Be 
Studied 70 

CHAPTER  X. 

Opinions  on  the  Value  of  the  Talmud  by  Gentiles  and 

Modern  Jewish  Scholars 75 

PART   II. 

CHAPTER  I. 

Ethics.   Introduction.   The  Parallels  Between  the  Tal- 

MUDic  and  the  Evangelum  Regarding  Human  Love    .      80 

CHAPTER  IL 

Man  as  Moral  Being,  Free-will,  God's  Will,  the  Ac- 
countable to  God,  etc..  Labor,  Cardinal  Duties  in 
Relation  to  Fellow-men,  Justice,  Truth  and  Truth- 
fulness, Peacefulness,  Charity,  Duties  Concerning 
Special  Relations,  the  Conjugal  Relations,  Parents 
AND  Children,  Country  and  Community,  and  the 
General  Characteristics 84 


CONTENTS.  V 

PART   III. 

PAGB 

Our  Method  of  the  Translation  of  the  New  Edition 

OF  THE  Babylonian  Talmud gj 

PART   IV. 

Criticism.     Some  Remarks  about  Circumcision  in  General 

AND  to  Our  New  Edition  Especially      ....     loi 

Appendix  to  Chapter  II.  The  Suggestion  that  Jesus  is 
Mentioned  in  the  Talmud  as  an  Author  of  a  Law 
WHICH  WAS  Practised  until  It  was  Changed  by 
Akiba 105 

PART   V. 

The  Arrangement  and  the  Names  of  the  Tracts  of  the 
Sections  of  Both  Talmuds,  with  the  Synopsis  of  the 
Two  Sections,  Moed  and  Nezikin    .        .        .      (134  pages) 

PART  VI. 
Indorsements  and  some  Press  Comments  »        ,       (14  pages) 


PART  I. 

HISTORICAL     AND    LITERARY    INTRODUCTION    TO    THE    NEW 
EDITION    OF    THE    TALMUD. 

CHAPTER  I. 

THE  COMBINATION  OF  THE  GEMARA,  THE  SOPHRIM,  AND  THE 

ESHCALATH. 

Voluminous  books  were  written  about  the  text  of  the 
Mishna  and  Talmud  in  almost  every  language,  besides  valuable 
articles  by  very  scholarly  men  in  different  books  and  periodicals. 
In  the  bibliography  the  reader  will  find  all  modem  works  ar- 
ranged with  various  references  to  subjects.  We  shall  only  point 
out  the  special  books  on  this  subject,  viz.,  "Darkhe  Hamish- 
nah,"  (The  Ways  of  the  Mishna),  by  Zachariah  Frankel,  "  The 
Introduction  to  the  Mishna,"  by  Jacob  Brill,  1876,  "The  Tra- 
dition of  the  Oral  Law,"  by  H.  Weiss,  and  "  Toldat  Hamish- 
nah,"  (History  of  the  Mishna),  by  Haim  Oppenheim,  all  in 
Hebrew;  " Jahrbiicher,"  by  Dr.  N.  Brill,  Frankfort,  A.  M., 
"Real  Encyclopaedic,"  by  J.  Hamburger,  "Die  Lehrer  der 
Mishna,"  by  M.  Braunschweiger,  and  Graetz's  "  History  of  the 
Jews,"  all  in  German.  Finally  three  special  introductions  were 
written  (i)  "  Einleitung  in  den  Talmud,"  Leipzig,  1894,  second 
edition,  by  Dr.  Herman  Strack,  in  German;  (2)  "  Introduction 
to  the  Talmud,"  1891  and  1894,  second  edition,  by  Dr.  M. 
Mielziner,  in  English,  and  (3)  "  Introduction  to  the  Mishna," 
in  the  Russian  language,  by  N.  Perferkowitz.*  In  these 
introductions  are  mentioned  also  the  different  translations  of 
the  Mishnayoth  and  Talmud  in  all  the  languages  up  to  the 
time  these  works  were  written.  Finally,  Dr.  Brick  Bischoff 
wrote  a  special  book  named  "  Kritische  Geschichte  der  Tal- 
mud—tjberzetzungen  aller  Zeiten  imd  Zungen,"  Frankfort, 

*  This  work,  which  is  the  first  of  its  kind  in  the  Russian  language,  is  also 
worthy  to  be  considered. 


a  THE   HISTORY   OF  THE   TALMUD. 

a.  M.,  1899.  All  the  above  mentioned  introductions  explain 
the  terms  of  the  text  of  the  Mishna  and  Talmud,  their  abbre- 
viations and  the  method  of  both  Talmuds,  to  enable  those  who 
desire  to  study  the  text  in  the  original.  We,  however,  who 
wish  to  give  an  introduction  to  our  English  translation  of  the 
Talmud,  deem  it  not  necessary  to  trouble  the  English  reader 
with  the  explanations  of  the  text,  and  shall  give  only  what 
pertains  to  our  new  edition. 

We  have  already  mentioned  in  our  brief  introduction  to 
Sabbath  that  the  Talmud,  in  general,  is  composed  of  Mishna 
and  Gemara.  In  this  introduction,  however,  we  shall  give 
all  the  particulars  pointed  out  by  Strack  and  Mielziner  which 
we  deem  of  interest  to  the  English  reader.  As  a  text  we  took 
Mielziner 's  "Introduction,"  which  is  an  excellent  work,  omit- 
ting what  seems  to  us  not  necessary  for  the  reader,  supplying 
it  with  necessary  remarks  and  additions. 

(I.) 

The  Talmud  is  a  combination  of  Mishna  and  Gemara, 
the  latter  is  a  collection  of  Mishnayoth,  Tosephtas,  Mechilta, 
Siphra,  Siphre  and  Boraithas,  all  of  these,  interpreted  and 
discussed  by  the  Amoraim,  Saboraim,  and  also  Gaonim  at  a 
later  period.  "The  Mishna  is  the  authorized  codification  of 
the  oral  or  unwritten  law,  which  on  the  basis  of  the  written 
law  contained  in  Pentateuch,  developed  during  the  second 
Temple,  and  down  to  the  end  of  the  second  century  of  the 
common  era."  The  author  of  which  was  R.  Jehuda,  the  prince 
named  "Rabbi"  (flourishing  toward  the  end  of  the  second 
century),  taking  the  imfinished  work  of  R.  Akiba  and  R.  Meir 
as  basis.* 

(2.) 

"The  word  Tosephta  means  Addition,  Supplement,  and, 
as  indicated  by  this  name,  the  work  is  intended  to  complete 
deficiencies  of  the  Mishna. f  It  is  divided  into  Masechtoth, 
generally  corresponding  to  those  of  the  Mishna,  but  differing 

*  The  meaning  of  the  word  Mishna  is  already  explained  by  us  in  the  first  volume 
of  this  work,  as  well  as  its  division  into  sections. 

In  Mielziner's  "  Introduction,"  pp.  18-21,  the  reader  will  find  all  the  details  about 
Mechilta  Siphra  and  Siphre  and  Boraitha,  which  we  deem  it  not  necessary  to  repeat 
as  they  are  not  of  importance  to  the  reader. 

f  See  also  our  brief  general  introduction,  vol.  i.,  p.  xvii. 


HISTORICAL  AND   LITERARY   INTRODUCTION.       3 

from  them  in  the  arrangement  of  their  subject,  and  in  the 
division  of  their  Perakim.  The  latter  are  not  subdivided  into 
paragraphs.  There  are  in  all  sixty  Masechtoth  and  452  Pera- 
kim. The  Tosephta  contains  mainly  the  remnants  of  the 
earlier  compilations  of  the  Halacha  made  by  R.  Akiba,  R. 
Meir,  R.  Nehemia,  and  others  not  adopted  in  the  Mishna,  and, 
besides  additions  made  after  R.  Jehuda  Hanasi's  death  by 
his  disciples,  R.  Chiya,  R.  Oshaya,  Bar  Kappara  and  others. 
But  we  find  in  that  work  also  many  sayings  and  decisions 
of  later  Amoraim  of  the  Babylonian  and  Palestinian  schools. 
In  its  present  shape  it  belongs  to  the  fifth  or  sixth  cen- 
tury." * 

(3-) 

"  The  Mechilta,  the  Siphra  and  the  Siphre  have  this  in  com- 
mon, that  they  treat  of  the  oral  law  not  according  to  well  ar- 
ranged subjects,  as  is  the  case  with  the  Mishna  and  the  To- 
sephta, but  rather  in  the  form  of  a  running  commentary  and 
discussion  on  the  biblical  passages  from  which  the  law  is  de- 
duced or  on  which  it  is  based. 

"The  Siphra,  also  called  Torath  Cohanin,  is  a  collection  of 
traditional  interpretations  of  the  whole  book  of  Leviticus, 
introduced  by  an  exposition  of  R.  Ishmael's  thirteen  her- 
meneutic  rules." 

(4.) 

"The  Siphre,  or,  as  its  fuller  title  reads,  the  books  of  the 
school  of  Rab,  comprises  the  traditional  interpretations  of 
the  book  of  Numbers,  beginning  with  Chapter  V.,  and  of  the 
whole  book  of  Deuteronomy.  The  author  of  the  Siphre  on 
Numbers  was  evidently  not  the  same  as  the  author  of  that  on 
the  last  book  of  the  Pentateuch.  The  scyle  of  the  former, 
being  more   argumentative   and   discursive,  often  resembles 

*  The  Tosephta  is  usually  printed  as  an  appendix  to  Alphasi's  compendium  of 
the  Talmud.  In  the  Vienna  edition  of  the  Babylonian  Talmud  (1860-72)  the 
Masechtoth  of  the  Tosephta  are  appended  to  the  corresponding  Masechtoth  of  the 
Talmud.  A  separate  revised  edition  of  the  whole  Tosephta  was  published  by  Dr. 
Zuckermandel  (Pasewalk  and  Treves,  1877-82).  Dr.  Adolph  Schwartz  is  publishing 
a  new  edition  of  the  Tosephta,  with  notes  and  text  corrections,  of  which  the  first 
volume  is  out,  Wilna,  1891.  Critical  researches  on  the  Tosephta  are  found  in  Frankel's 
"Darke  Hamishna,"  pp.  304-307,  and  in  I.  H.  Weiss's  "  Dor  Dor,"  etc.,  II.,  pp. 
217-225  ;  also  in  I.  H.  Duenner's  "  Wesen  und  Ursprung  der  Tosephta,"  Amster- 
dam, 1874. 


4  THE   HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

that  of  the  Siphra,  while  Siphre  on  Deuteronomy  is  generally 
brief,  bearing  more  resemblance  to  the  Mechilta."  The  author 
of  it  is  said  to  be  R.  Simeon  b.  Johai. 

Besides  the  Tosephta,  the  Mechilta,  the  Siphra  and  the 
Siphre  just  described,  other  collections  of  a  similar  character 
existed  during  the  Talmudical  period.  In  the  course  of  time 
they  perished,  but  many  hundred  fragmentary  passages  thereof 
are  quoted  in  all  parts  of  the  Palestinian  and  Babylonian 
Gemara.  Such  a  passage  quoted  from  those  lost  collections 
as  well  as  from  the  Tosephta,  Mechilta,  Siphra  and  Siphre  was 
termed  Boraitha,  or  Mathnitha  Boraitha,  meaning  extraneous 
Mishna.  This  term  was  used  in  order  to  distinguish  those  pas- 
sages from  passages  in  our  Mishna,  that  is,  the  authorized 
Mishna  of  R.  Jehuda  Hanasi,  compared  with  which  they  had 
but  a  subordinate  value.  The  Baraithoth  are  often  found  to 
be  conflicting  with  each  other  or  with  the  authorized  Mishna, 
and  in  this  case  the  Gemara  usually  displays  great  ingenuity 
and  subtility  in  the  attempt  to  reconcile  them.  In  some  in- 
stances, however,  one  or  the  other  Boraitha  is  declared  to  be 
spurious.* 

The  authorities  mentioned  in  the  Mishna  and  Boraitha  f 
as  having  transmitted  and  developed  the  oral  law  belong  to 
three  different  periods;  namely:  (i)  The  period  of  Sopherim 
(Scribes);  (2)  The  period  of  Zugoth;  (3)  The  period  of 
Tanaim. 

(a)  Sopherim  or  Scribes  were  the  learned  men  who  suc- 
ceeded Ezra  during  a  period  of  about  two  hundred  years.  To 
them  many  institutions  and  extensions  of  the  Mosaic  law  are 
ascribed.  The  Sopherim  are  also  called  collectively  "  the  men 
of  the  Great  Assembly  (Synod)."  According  to  tradition, 
this  synod  consisted  of  120  members,  but  we  have  no  record 
of  their  names  with  the  exception  of  Ezra,  its  foimder,  and  of 
Simon  the  Upright  (Just),  (the  high  priest  Simon  I.,  between 
310-292,  or  his  grandson  Simon  II.,  between  220-202  b.c), 
who  is  said  to  have  been  one  of  the  last  members  of  the  Great 
Assembly. 

*  Some  critical  researches  on  the  Boraitha  are  found  in  Frankel's  "  Darke  Ha- 
mishna,"  pp.  311-313,  and  in  I.  H.  Weiss's  "  Dor  Dor,"  II.,  pp.  239-244. 

\  We  do  not  find  the  Zui^oth  to  be  mentioned  in  the  Boraitha.  However,  we  do 
not  cancel  it  as  it  is  so  written  by  Mielziner. 


HISTORICAL  AND   LITERARY   INTRODUCTION.       5 

Antigonos  of  Socho,  a  disciple  of  Simon  the  Just,  was  the 
connecting  Hnk  between  this  and  the  following  period. 

(b)  The  word  Eshcalath  (Zugoth),  meaning  the  pairs 
(duumviri),  is  the  appellation  of  the  leading  teachers  from 
Jose  ben  Joezer  till  Hillel,  of  whom  always  two,  at  the  same 
time,  stood  at  the  head  of  the  Sanhedrin,  one  as  president 
(Nasi),  and  the  other  as  vice-president  (Ab  beth  din). 

The  succession  of  these  Zugoth  was : 

(i)  Jose  ben  Joezer  and  Jose  ben  Jochanan,  flourishing 
at  the  time  of  the  Maccabean  wars  of  independence. 

(2)  Joshua  b.  Perachia  and  Nitai  of  Arbela,  flourishing 

at  the  time  of  John  Hyrcan. 

(3)  Juda  b.  Tabai  and  Simon  b.  Shetach,  flourishing  at 
the  time  of  Alexander  Janai  and  Queen  Salome. 

(4)  Shemaiah  and  Abtalion,  flourishing  at  the  time  of 

Hyrcan  II. 

(5)  Hillel  and  Shaniai,  flourishing  at  the  time  of  King 

Herod. 

(c)  With  the  disciples  of  Hillel  and  Shamai  begins  the 
period  of  Tanaim,  which  lasted  about  210  years  (from  10  to 
220  Ch.  Era).  With  the  beginning  of  this  period  the  title 
Rabbi  (teacher)  for  the  ordained  teachers,  and  the  title 
Rabban  (our  teacher)  for  the  president  of  the  Sanhedrin  came 
in  use. 

In  the  Mishna,  the  term  Tana,  meaning  a  teacher  of  the 
oral  law,  does  not  yet  occur.  Those  teachers  are  there  sig- 
nified by  generally  adding  the  title  of  Rabbi  to  their  names, 
or  by  calling  them  collectively  the  Sages,  while  the  authorities 
of  the  preceding  period  are  occasionally  designated  ' '  the  former 
elders."  It  is  first  in  the  Gemara  that  the  term  Tana  is  applied 
to  a  teacher  mentioned  in  the  Mishna  and  Boraitha,  in  con- 
tradistinction to  the  Amoraim,  expounders  of  the  Mishna,  as 
the  teachers  after  R.  Jehuda  Hanasi  are  called.  (In  Babylonian 
Talmud :  in  Palestinian,  however,  the  Amoraim  are  also  called 
Rabbis.) 

The  period  of  the  Tanaim  is  generally  divided  into  five  or 
six  minor  sections  or  generations.  The  purpose  of  this  division 
is  to  show  which  teachers  developed  their  principal  activity  con- 
temporaneously, though  the  actual  lifetime  of  some  of  them 
extended  to  more  than  one  generation. 


6  THE   HISTORY   OF  THE   TALMUD. 

The  following  chronological  tables  contain  the  names  only 
of  the  more  prominent  *  teachers  of  each  generation.  Every 
table  is  followed  by  short  biographical  sketches  of  the  teachers 
mentioned  therein. f 


CHAPTER  II. 

the  generations  of  the  tanaim. 

First  Generation. 

The  principal  Tanaim  of  the  first  generation,  which  lasted 
about  seventy  years,  from  lo  to  80,  Ch.  Era,|  are:  (i)  The 
School  of  Shamai  and  the  School  of  Hillel;  (2)  Akabia  ben 
Mahalalel;  (3)  Rabban  Gamaliel  the  Elder ;  (4)  Rabbi  Chanina, 
Chief  of  the  Priests;  (5)  R.  Simon  ben  Gamaliel;  (6)  R. 
Jochanan  ben  Zakkai.  (Strack  adds  to  this  first  generation 
[10-90]  the  Judges),  (7)  Admon,  and  (8)  Hannan;  (9)  Nachum 
the  Madaith;  (10)  Eliezer  b.  Jacob  1;  (11)  Haninah  b.  Dosa; 
(12)  Nechunyah  b.  Hakanah;  and  (13)  Zadock. 

Mielziner  counts  Adman,  Hannan  and  Nachum  of  Ma- 
daith at  the  end  of  this  paragraph,  not  numbering  them  among 
the  first  generation,  so  also  he  did  with  some  others  in  the 
succeeding  generations. 

*  We  do  not  understand  very  well  what  the  learned  Doctor  Mielziner  means  by 
the  word  prominent,  as  it  seems  that  the  Tanaim  whom  he  omitted  were  not  less 
prominent  than  those  whom  he  mentioned.  On  the  contrary,  some  of  them  were 
even  more  prominent.  We  are  sorry  that  our  work  was  delayed  until  after  the  depar- 
ture of  the  learned  doctor,  who  was  our  friend  and  whose  loss  we  greatly  lament,  so 
that  we  cannot  ask  him  the  reason  as  we  always  meant  to  do.  (See  our  remarks 
further  on.) 

t  Fuller  characteristics  of  the  lives  and  teachings  of  the  principal  Tanaim  are 
given  in  the  following  works  : 

Graetz,  "  History  of  the  Jews,"  Vol.  IV. 

Z.  Frankel,  "Darke  Hamishna." 

I.  H.  Weiss,  "  Zur  Geschichte  der  juedischen  Tradition,"  Vols.  I.  and  II. 

Jacob  Bruell,  "  Mebo  Hamishna,"  Vol.  I. 

J.  Hamburger,  "  Real  Encyclopaedie,"  Vol.  II.     "  Die  Talmudischen  Artikel." 

M.  Braunschweiger,  "  Die  Lehrer  der  Mishnah." 

H.  Strack,  "  Einleitung  in  den  Talmud." 

N.  Perferkowitz,  Talmud,  Part  I. 

X  This  comparatively  great  length  of  the  first  generation  is  easily  explained  by 
the  circumstance  that  it  refers  to  the  duration  of  the  prevailing  Schools  of  Shamai 
and  Hillel,  and  not,  as  in  the  subsequent  generations,  to  that  of  the  activity  of  a 
single  leading  teacher. 


HISTORICAL  AND   LITERARY   INTRODUCTION.       7 

Characteristics  and  Biographical  Sketches. 

1.  The  School  of  Shamai  and  the  School  of  Hillel  were 
founded  by  the  disciples  of  the  great  teachers  whose  names 
they  bear.  Following  the  principles  of  their  masters,*  they 
differed  widely  in  their  opinions  on  many  legal  questions ;  the 
School  of  Shamai,  in  general,  taking  a  rigorous,  and  the  School 
of  Hillel  a  more  lenient  view  of  the  question.  In  their  frequent 
controversies  the  School  of  Shamai,  having  been  founded  al- 
ready during  the  lifetime  of  Hillel,  is  always  mentioned  first. 
Of  individual  teachers  belonging  to  either  of  these  two  schools 
only  a  very  few  are  occasionally  mentioned  by  name.  Both 
schools  existed  during  the  whole  period  of  the  first  generation, 
and  the  antagonism  of  their  followers  extended  even  to  the 
middle  of  the  subsequent  generation. 

2.  Akabia  ben  Mahalalel.  Of  this  teacher  who  flourished 
shortly  after  Hillel  only  a  few  opinions  and  traditions  are  re- 
corded. According  to  what  is  related  of  him  in  Mishna 
Eduyoth,  V.,  6,  7,  he  was  a  noble  character  with  unyielding 
principles, 

3.  Rabban  Gamaliel  the  Elder.  He  was  a  son  of  R.  Simon, 
and  grandson  of  Hillel,  whom  he  succeeded  in  the  office  of 
Nasi.  Many  important  ordinances  (nUpH)  of  the  Rabbin- 
ical law  are  ascribed  to  him.  He  died  eighteen  years  before 
the  destruction  of  Jerusalem.  The  epithet  "the  Elder"  gen- 
erally added  to  his  name,  is  to  distinguish  him  from  his  grand- 
son Gamaliel  of  Jabne,  who  flourished  in  the  following  gener- 
ation. 

4.  Rabbi  Chanina,  Chief  of  the  Priests,  or  the  proxy  of  the 
high-priest.  He,  as  well  as  "the  court  of  Priests,"  is  inciden- 
tally mentioned  in  the  Mishna  in  connection  with  laws  con- 
cerning the  sacrifices  and  the  Temple  service. 

5.  R.  Simon  ben  Gamaliel.  He  was  the  son  and  successor 
of  Rabban  Gamaliel  the  Elder,  and  was  executed  by  the  Ro- 
mans in  the  time  of  the  destruction  of  Jerusalem.  Belonging 
to  the  School  of  Hillel,  his  individual  opinions  in  questions  of 
law  are  but  rarely  recorded  in  the  Mishna.     He  must  not  be 


*  Shamai  and  Hillel  themselves  differ  in  three  questions  only.     (See  Eduyoth, 
p.  5.)     Their  schools,  however,  differ  in  316'Halakhas. 


8  THE   HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

confounded  with  his  grandson  who  had  the  same  name  and 
belonged  to  the  fourth  generation  of  Tanaim. 

6.  R.  Jochanan  b.  Zakkai.  This  distinguished  teacher  was 
one  of  the  youngest  disciples  of  Hillel,  occupied  a  high  position 
already  before  the  destruction  of  Jerusalem,  and  afterwards 
became  the  founder  and  head  of  the  celebrated  academy  of 
Jabne  (Jamnia). 

Second  Generation. 

This  generation  lasted  about  forty  years,  from  80  to  120. 
The  principal  Tanaim  belonging  to  it  are : 

(i)  Rabban  Gamaliel  II.,  (of  Jabne);  (2)  Rabbi  Zadok; 
(3)  R.  Dosa  (b.  Harchinas) ;  (4)  R.  Eliezerb.  Jacob;*  (5)  R. 
Eliezer  (b.  Hyrkanos) ;  (6)  R.  Joshua  (b.  Chanania) ;  (7)  R. 
Elazar  b.  Azaria;  (8)  Elasar  b.  Arach;t  (9)  R.  Juda  b. 
Bathyra.  (According  to  Strack) ,  (10)  Papias;  (11)  Alazar  b. 
Zadock;  (12)  Samuel  the  Little;  (13)  Nachum  of  Gimzu;  (14) 
Ben  Paturi;  (15)  Jose  the  Priest;  (16)  Elazar  of  Modium. 

We  refrain  from  giving  the  sketches  of  those  who  were 
added  by  Strack  and  others,  as  they  would  take  up  too  much 
space.  The  reader  who  is  interested  in  them  can  easily  find 
them  in  the  reference  books  pointed  out  by  Strack,  who  gives 
to  each  of  them  the  sources  in  the  German  language  from 
which  he  draws. 

Characteristics  and  Biographical  Sketches. 

.  I.  Rabban  Gamaliel  II.  He  was  a  grandson  of  Gamaliel 
the  Elder;  after  the  death  of  R.  Johanan  b.  Zakkai  he  became 
president  of  the  academy  of  Jabne,  and  like  his  ancestors,  he 
bore  the  title  Nasi  (Prince) ;  with  the  Romans,  Patriarch.  In 
order  to  distinguish  him  from  his  grandfather,  he  received  the 
surname  Gamaliel  of  Jabne,  or  the  Second. 

2.  R.  Zadok.  Of  him  it  is  related  that  he,  in  anticipation 
of  the  destruction  of  the  Temple,  fasted  for  forty  successive 

*  Strack  counts  him  and  Zadok  among  the  first  generation. 

j-  We  have  added  him  as  his  omission  by  Mielziner  can  be  attributed  only  to 
forgetfulness  as  his  prcceeding  sages  were  also  disciples  of  R.  Johanan  b.  Zakkai, 
and  for  the  same  reason  we  have  added  Papus,  who  was  a  contemporary  of  R.  Aqiba 
and  of  whom  the  Talmud  speaks  highly. 


HISTORICAL   AND    LITERARY   INTRODUCTION.       9 

years.     He  then  removed  to  Jabne  where  he  as  well  as  his  son, 
R.  Eliezar  b.  Zadok,  belonged  to  the  distinguished  teachers. 

3.  R.  Dosa  h.  Harchinas  belonged  to  the  school  of  Hillel,  and 
removed  with  R.  Jochanan  b.  Zakkai  from  Jerusalem  to  Jabne. 
where  he  reached  a  very  old  age.  He  stood  in  such  high  esteem 
that  his  most  distinguished  colleagues  appealed  to  his  opinion 
in  doubtful  cases. 

4.  R.  Eliezer  b.  Jacob  was  head  of  a  school,  and  in  possession 
of  traditions  concerning  the  structiire  and  interior  arrange- 
ments of  the  Temple.  He  is  also  mentioned  with  commenda- 
tion as  to  his  method  of  instruction,  which  was  "concise 
and  clear."  There  was  also  another  Tana  by  a  similar  name 
who  flourished  in  the  fourth  generation. 

5.  R.  Eliezer  b.  Hyrkanos,  in  the  Mishna  called  simply  R. 
Eliezer,  was  one  of  the  most  distinguished  disciples  of  R. 
Jochanan  b.  Zakkai,  who  characterized  him  as  "the  lime- 
cemented  cistern  that  does  not  lose  a  drop."  He  was  a  faith- 
ful conservator  of  handed-down  decisions  and  opposed  to  their 
slightest  modification  and  to  any  new  deductions  to  be  made 
therefrom.  His  school  was  in  Lydda,  in  South  Judea.  Though 
formerly  a  disciple  of  the  Hillelites,  he  inclined  to  the  views  of 
the  Shamaites  and  consequently  came  in  conflict  with  his  col- 
leagues. Being  persistent  in  his  opinion,  and  conforming  to 
it  even  in  practice,  he  was  excommunicated  by  his  own  brother- 
in-law,  the  patriarch  Gamaliel  II. 

6.  R.  Joshua  b.  Chanania,  in  general  called  simply  R. 
Joshua,  was  likewise  one  of  the  favored  disciples  of  R.  Jochanan 
b.  Zakkai.  Shortly  before  the  destruction  of  the  Temple  he 
left  Jerusalem  with  his  teacher,  after  whose  death  he  founded 
a  separate  school  in  Bekiin.  As  member  of  the  Sanhedrin  in 
Jabne,  he  participated  conspicuously  in  its  deliberations  and 
debates.  His  discussions  were  mostly  with  R.  Eliezer,  to  whose 
unyielding  conservatism  he  formed  a  striking  contrast,  as  he 
represented  the  more  rational  and  conciHatory  element  of  that 
generation,  and  combined  with  great  learning  the  amiable 
virtues  of  gentleness,  modesty  and  placabihty  which  charac- 
terized the  Hillelites.  As  he,  on  several  occasions,  was  humil- 
iated by  the  Nasi  Gamaliel  II.,  with  whom  he  differed  on  some 
questions,  the  members  of  the  Sanhedrin  resented  this  insult 
of  their  esteemed  colleague  by  deposing  the  offender  from  his 


lo  THE   HISTORY   OF  THE   TALMUD. 

dignity  and  electing  another  president.  It  was  only  through 
the  interference  of  the  appeased  R.  Joshua  that  R.  Gamaliel, 
who  apologized  for  his  conduct,  was  again  restored  to  his  office. 

7.  R.  Elazar  b.  Azaria  descended  from  a  noble  family  whose 
pedigree  was  traced  up  to  Ezra  the  Scribe.  Already  while  a 
young  man,  he  enjoyed  such  a  reputation  for  his  great  learning 
that  he  was  made  president  of  the  academy  at  Jabne  in  place 
of  the  deposed  R.  Gamaliel.  When  the  latter  was  reinstated, 
R.  Elazar  was  appointed  as  vice-president.  His  controversies 
were  mostly  with  R.  Joshua,  R.  Tarphon,  R.  Ishmael  and  R. 
Akiba.  On  account  of  the  noble  virtues  which  he  combined 
with  his  great  learning  he  was  compared  to  "  a  vessel  filled  with 
aromatic  spices,"  and  R.  Joshua  said  of  him:  "a  generation 
having  a  man  like  R.  Elazar  b.  Azaria,  is  not  orphaned." 

8.  Elazar  b.  Arach,  of  whom  it  is  said  (Aboth,  p.  61),  "If 
all  the  wise  of  Israel  were  in  a  scale  of  the  balance  and 
Eliezer  b.  Hyrkanos  with  them,  and  Elazar  b.  Arach  in  the 
other  scale,  he  would  outweigh  them  all." 

9.  R.  Juda  b.  Bathyra  had  a  school  in  Nisibis  (in  Assyria), 
already  at  the  time  when  the  Temple  of  Jerusalem  was  still  in 
existence.  He  was  probably  a  descendant  of  the  family  Bene 
Bathyra,  who  were  leaders  of  the  Sanhedrin  under  King  Herod, 
and  who  resigned  that  office  in  favor  of  Hillel.  Several  other 
Tanaim  had  the  same  family  name,  as  R.  Joshua  b.  Bathyra, 
R.  Simon  b.  Bathyra  and  one  called  simply  Ben  Bathyra. 

Third  Generation. 

Several  Teachers  of  the  third  generation,  which  lasted  from 
the  year  120  till  about  139  (130-160,  Strack),  flourished  already 
in  the  preceding  one.     The  principal  teachers  are : 

(i)  R.  Tarphon;  (2)  R.  Ishmael;  (3)  R.  Aqiba;  (4)  R. 
Jochanan  b.  Nuri;  (5)  R.  Jose  the  Galilean;  (6)  R.  Simon  b. 
Nanos;  (7)  R.  Juda  b.  Baba;  (8)  R.  Jochanan  b.  Broka. 
Strack  counts  all  the  above-mentioned  in  the  second  genera- 
tion, with  the  addition  of,  (9)  Papus  b.  Jehuda ;  (10)  Elazar  b. 
Chasma;  (11)  Jose  of  Damascus;  (12)  Hananya  b.  Trodyan; 
(13)  Jos  b.  Kisma;  (14)  Elazar  b.  Parta;  (15)  Simeon  b.  Azai; 
(16)  Simeon  b.  Zoma;  (17)  Elisha  b.  Abuyah;  (18)  Chaninah 
b.  Gamaliel;  (19)  Chaninah  b.  Antigonos;  (20)  Elazar  of  Bartu 


HISTORICAL  AND  LITERARY   INTRODUCTION,      ii 

tha;  (21)  Simeon  of  Taimon;  (22)  Chananiah,  the  son  of 
Jechosua's  brother ;  (23)  Jehuda  b.  Buthyra;  (24)  Matyah  b. 
Cheris;*  (25)  Chittkah;  (26)  Simeon  the  Shakmone;  (27) 
Chananiah  b.  Chakniel. 


Characteristics  and  Biographical  Sketches. 

1.  R.  Tarphon,  or  Tryphon,  of  Lydda.  He  is  said  to  have 
been  inclined  to  the  views  of  the  School  of  Shamai.  On  ac- 
count of  his  great  learning  he  was  called  "the  teacher  of  Israel" ; 
besides,  he  was  praised  for  his  great  charitable  works.  His 
legal  discussions  were  mostly  with  his  colleague  R.  Akiba. 

2.  R.  Ishmael  (b.  Elisha)  was  probably  a  grandson  of  the 
high-priest  Ishmael  b,  Elisha  who  was  condemned  to  death 
by  Titus,  together  with  the  patriarch  Simon  b.  Gamaliel  I. 
When  still  a  boy,  he  was  made  a  captive  and  brought  to  Rome, 
where  R.  Joshua  who  happened  to  come  there  on  a  mission, 
redeemed  him  at  a  high  ransom  and  brought  him  back  to  Pales- 
tine. R.  Nechunia  b.  Hakana  is  mentioned  as  one  of  his  prin- 
cipal teachers.  When  grown  to  manhood,  he  became  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Sanhedrin  and  was  highly  revered  by  his  colleagues. 
He  is  named  among  those  who  emigrated  with  the  Sanhedrin 
from  Jabne  to  Usha.  His  residence  was  in  South  Judea  in  a 
place  called  Kephar  Aziz.  His  academical  controversies  were 
mostly  with  R.  Akiba,  to  whose  artificial  methods  of  interpret- 
ing the  law  he  was  strongly  opposed,  on  the  principle  that 
the  Torah,  being  composed  in  the  usual  language  of  man,  must 
be  interpreted  in  a  plain  and  rational  way.  As  guiding  rules 
of  interpretation  he  accepted  only  the  seven  logical  rules  which 
had  been  laid  down  by  Hillel,  which  he,  however,  by  some 
modifications  and  subdivisions,  enlarged  to  thirteen.  A 
separate  school  which  he  founded  was  continued  after  his 
death  by  his  disciples  and  was  known  by  the  name  of  "  Be  R. 
Ishmael."  Of  the  book  Mechilta  which  is  ascribed  to  R. 
Ishmael. 

3.  R.  Aqiba  (b.  Joseph)  was  the  most  prominent  among 
the  Tanaim.  He  is  said  to  have  descended  from  a  proselyte 
family,  and  to  have  been  altogether  illiterate  up  to  the  age  of 
his  manhood.     Filled  with  the  desire  to  acquire  the  knowledge 

*  22,  23  and  24  were  out  of  Palestine. 


12  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

of  the  law,  he  entered  a  school  and  attended  the  lectures  of  the 
distinguished  teachers  of  that  time,  especially  of  R.  Eliezer  b. 
Hyrkanos,  R.  Joshua  b.  Chanania,  and  of  Nachum  of  Gimzu. 
Subsequently  he  founded  a  school  in  B'ne  Brak,  near  Jabne, 
and  became  a  member  of  the  Sanhedrin  in  the  last-mentioned 
city.  Through  his  keen  intellect,  his  vast  learning  and  his 
energetic  activity  he  wielded  a  great  influence  in  developing 
and  diffusing  the  traditional  law.  He  arranged  the  accumu- 
lated material  of  that  law  in  a  proper  system  and  methodical 
order,  and  enriched  its  substance  with  many  valuable  deduc- 
tions of  his  own.  His  methodical  arrangement  and  division 
of  that  material  was  completed  by  his  disciple  R.  Meir,  and 
later  on  became  the  groimdwork  of  the  Mishna  compiled  by 
R,  Jehuda  Hanasi.  Besides,  he  introduced  a  new  method  of 
interpreting  the  Scriptures,  which  enabled  him  to  find  a  biblical 
basis  for  almost  every  provision  of  the  oral  law.  This  ingen- 
ious method  was  admired  by  his  contemporaries,  and  notwith- 
standing the  opposition  of  some  of  his  colleagues,  generally 
adopted  in  addition  to  the  thirteen  hermeneutic  rules  of  R. 
Ishmael.  R.  Akiba's  legal  opinions  are  very  frequently  re- 
corded in  all  parts  of  the  Mishna  and  in  the  kindred  works. 
His  academical  discussions  are  mostly  with  his  former  teachers, 
R.  Eliezer,  R.  Joshua,  and  with  his  colleagues,  R.  Tarphon, 
R.  Jochanan  b.  Niu-i,  R.  Jose  the  Galilean  and  others. 

R.  Akiba  died  a  martyr  to  religion  and  patriotism.  Having 
been  a  stout  supporter  of  the  cause  of  Bar  Cochba,  he  was 
cruelly  executed  by  the  Romans  for  publicly  teaching  the  Law, 
contrary  to  the  edict  of  the  emperor  Hadrian.  (See  Aboth, 
p.  28.)  ^ 

4.  R.  Jochanan  h.  Nuri  was  a  colleague  of  R.  Akiba,  with 
whom  he  frequently  differed  on  questions  of  the  law.  In  his 
youth  he  seems  to  have  been  a  disciple  of  R.  Gamaliel  IL,  for 
whose  memory  he  always  retained  a  warm  veneration.  He 
presided  over  a  college  in  Beth  Shearim,  a  place  near  Sepphoris 
in  Galilee. 

5.  R.  Jose  the  Galilean  was  a  very  distinguished  teacher. 
Of  his  youth  and  education  nothing  is  known.  At  his  first 
appearance  in  the  Sanhedrin  of  Jabne,  he  participated  in  a 
debate  with  R.  Tarphon  and  with  R.  Akiba,  and  displayed 
such  great  learning  and  sagacity  that  he  attracted  general 


HISTORICAL  AND   LITERARY   INTRODUCTION.      13 

attention.  From  this  debate  his  reputation  as  a  teacher  was 
established.  He  was  an  authority  especially  in  the  laws  con- 
cerning the  sacrifices  and  the  Temple  service.  His  discussions 
were  mostly  with  R.  Akiba,  R.  Tarphon,  and  R.  Elazar  b. 
Azariah.  Of  his  domestic  life  it  is  related  that  he  had  the  bad 
fortune  of  having  an  ill-tempered  wife,  who  treated  him  so 
meanly  that  he  was  compelled  to  divorce  her,  but  learning  that 
she  in  her  second  marriage  lived  in  great  misery,  he  generously 
provided  her  and  her  husband  with  all  the  necessaries  of 
life.  One  of  his  sons,  R.  Eleazar  b.  R.  Jose  the  Galilean,  be- 
came a  distinguished  teacher  in  the  following  generation  and 
established  the  thirty-two  hermeneutic  rules  of  the  Hagada. 

6.  R.  Simon  b.  Nanos,  also  called  simply  Ben  Nanos,  was  a 
great  authority  especially  in  the  civil  law,  so  that  R.  Ishmael 
recommended  to  all  law  students  to  attend  the  lectures  of  this 
profound  teacher.  His  legal  controversies  were  mostly  with 
R.  Ishmael  and  R.  Akiba. 

7.  R.  Judah  h.  Baba,  who  on  account  of  his  piety  was  called 
the  Chasid,  is  noteworthy  not  only  as  a  distinguished  teacher, 
but  also  as  a  martyr  to  Judaism.  Contrary  to  the  Hadrianic 
edict  which,  under  extreme  penalty,  prohibited  the  ordination 
of  teachers,  he  ordained  seven  *  disciples  of  R.  Akiba  as  Rabbis, 
and  for  this  act  was  stabbed  to  death  by  the  Roman  soldiers. 

8.  R.  Jochanan  b.  Br  oka  was  an  authority  especially  in  the 
civil  law.  Also  his  son  R.  Ishmael  was  a  distinguished  teacher 
who  flourished  in  the  following  generation. 

Fourth  Generation. 

This  generation  extended  from  the  death  of  R.  Akiba  to 
the  death  of  the  patriarch  R.  Simon  b.  Gamaliel  II.,  from  the 
year  139  to  about  165.  Almost  all  leading  teachers  of  this 
generation  belong  to  the  latter  disciples  of  R.  Akiba. 

(i)  R.  Meir;  (2)  R.  Jehuda  (ben  Ilai) ;  (3)  R.  Jose  (ben 
Chalafta);  (4)  R.  Simon  (b.  Jochai) ;  (5)  R.  Elazar  (b. 
Shamua);  (6)  R.  Jochanan  the  Sandelar;  (7)  R.  Elazar  b. 
Jacob;  (8)  R.  Nehemia;  (9)  R.  Joshua  b.  Korcha;  (10)  R. 
Simon  b.  GamaHel.  Strack  counts  all  of  them  in  the  third 
generation,  and  adds,  (11)  Elazar  b.  Jose  the  Galilean;  (12) 

*  We  are  aware  only  of  six  mentioned  in  voL  i.,  p.  ii. 


14  THE   HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

Ishmael  b.  Jochanan  b.  Beroka;  (13)  Abba  Schaul;  (14) 
Chananiah  b.  Akiba;  (15)  Chananiah  b.  Akashya;  (16)  Jose 
b.  Akabyah;  (17)  Issi  b.  Jehuda;  (18)  Nehuraye;  (19)  Abba 
Jos  b.  Dusthai. 

Characteristics  and  Biographical  Sketches. 

I.  R.  Meir,  the  most  prominent  among  the  nimierous 
disciples  of  R.  Akiba,  was  a  native  of  Asia  Minor  and  gained 
a  subsistence  as  a  skilful  copyist  of  sacred  Scripture.  At 
first,  he  entered  the  academy  of  R.  Akiba,  but  finding  himself 
not  sufficiently  prepared  to  grasp  the  lectures  of  this  great 
teacher,  he  attended,  for  some  time,  the  school  of  R.  Ishmael, 
where  he  acquired  an  extensive  knowledge  of  the  law.  Re- 
turning then  to  R.  Akiba  and  becoming  his  constant  and 
favored  disciple,  he  developed  great  dialectical  powers.  R. 
Akiba  soon  recognized  his  worth  and  preferred  him  to  other 
disciples  by  ordaining  him  at  an  early  date.  This  ordination 
was  later  renewed  by  R.  Judah  b.  Baba.  On  account  of  the 
Hadrianic  persecutions,  R.  Meir  had  to  flee  from  Judea,  but 
after  the  repeal  of  those  edicts,  he  returned  and  joined  his  col- 
leagues in  reestablishing  the  Sanhedrin  in  the  city  of  Usha, 
in  Galilee.  His  academy  was  in  Emmaus,  near  Tiberias,  and 
for  a  time  also  in  Ardiscus,  near  Damascus,  where  a  large  circle 
of  disciples  gathered  around  him.  Under  the  patriarch  R. 
Simon  b.  Gamaliel  II.,  he  occupied  the  dignity  of  a  Chacham 
(advising  Sage),  in  which  office  he  was  charged  with  the  duty 
of  preparing  the  subjects  to  be  discussed  in  the  Sanhedrin.  A 
conflict  which  arose  between  him  and  the  patriarch  seems  to 
have  induced  him  to  leave  Palestine  and  return  to  his  native 
country,  Asia  Minor,  where  he  died.  R  .  Meir's  legal  opinions 
are  mentioned  almost  in  every  Masechta  of  the  Mishna  and 
Boraitha.  His  greatest  merit  was  that  he  continued  the  labors 
of  R.  Akiba  in  arranging  the  rich  material  of  the  oral  law  ac- 
cording to  subjects,  and  in  this  way  prepared  the  great  Mishna 
compilation  of  R.  Judah  Hanasi.  Besides  being  one  of  the 
most  distinguished  teachers  of  the  law,  he  was  also  a  very  popu- 
lar lecturer  (Hagadist),  who  used  to  illustrate  his  lectures  by 
interesting  fables  and  parables.  Of  his  domestic  life  it  is  known 
that  he  was  married  to  Beruria,  the  learned  daughter  of  the 


HISTORICAL  AND   LITERARY   INTRODUCTION.     15 

celebrated  teacher  and  martyr  R.  Cliananiah  b.  Teradyon. 
The  pious  resignation  which  he  and  his  noble  wife  exhibited 
at  the  sudden  death  of  their  two  promising  sons  has  been  im- 
mortaHzed  by  a  popular  legend  in  the  Midrash. 

2.  R.  Jehtida  b.  Ilai  is  generally  called  in  the  Mishna  simply 
R.  Jehuda.  After  having  received  instruction  in  the  law  from 
his  father,  who  had  been  a  disciple  of  R.  Eliezer  b.  Hyrkanos, 
he  attended  the  lectures  of  R.  Tarphon,  and  became  then  one 
of  the  distinguished  disciples  of  R.  Akiba.  On  account  of  his 
great  eloquence  he  is  called,  "The  first  among  the  speakers." 
Also  his  piety,  modesty  and  prudence  are  highly  praised.  He 
gained  a  modest  subsistence  by  a  mechanical  trade,  in  accord- 
ance with  his  favored  maxims :  "  Labor  honors  man,"  and  "He 
who  does  not  teach  his  son  a  trade,  teaches  him,  as  it  were, 
robbery."  Having  been  one  of  the  seven  disciples  who  after 
the  death  of  R.  Akiba  were  ordained  by  R.  Juda  b.  Baba  con- 
trary to  the  Hadrianic  edict,  he  had  to  flee.  After  three  years 
he  returned  with  his  colleagues  to  Usha  and  became  one  of  the 
prominent  members  of  the  resuscitated  Sanhedrin.  The  patri- 
arch R.  Simon  ben  Gamaliel  honored  him  greatly,  and  ap- 
pointed him  as  one  of  his  advisers.  As  expounder  of  the  law 
he  was  a  great  authority,  and  is  very  often  quoted  in  all  parts 
of  the  Mishna  and  Boraitha.  His  legal  opinions  generally  pre- 
vail, when  differing  from  those  of  his  colleagues  R.  Meir  and 
R.  Simon.  To  him  is  also  ascribed  the  authorship  of  the  essen- 
tial part  of  the  Siphra.  The  Hagada  of  the  Talmud  records 
many  of  his  beautiful  sayings,  which  characterize  him  not  only 
as  a  noble-hearted  teacher,  but  also  as  a  sound  and  clear- 
headed interpreter  of  Scriptures.  He,  for  instance,  denied 
the  literal  meaning  of  the  resurrection  of  the  dead  bones 
spoken  of  in  Ezekiel,  ch.  XXXVII.,  but  declared  it  to  be  merely 
a  poetical  figure  for  Israel's  rejuvenation.    (Sanhedrin,  p.  278.) 

R.  Jehuda  had  two  learned  sons  who  flourished  as  teachers 
in  the  following  generation. 

3.  R.  Jose  b.  Chalafta,  in  the  Mishna  called  simply  R.  Jose, 
was  from  Sepphoris,  where  already  his  learned  father  had  es- 
tablished a  school.  Though  by  trade  a  tanner,  be  became  one 
of  the  most  distinguished  teachers  of  his  time.  He  was  a  dis- 
ciple of  R.  Akiba  and  of  R.  Tarphon.  Like  his  colleagues  he 
was  ordained  by  R.  Juda  b.  Baba,  and  on  this  account   had 


i6  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

to  flee  to  the  south  of  Palestine,  whence  he  later  on  returned 
with  them  to  Usha.  For  having  kept  silent  when  in  his  pres- 
ence R.  Simon  made  a  slighting  remark  against  the  Roman 
government,  he  was  banished  to  Asia  Minor.  When  permitted 
to  return,  he  settled  in  his  native  city,  Sepphoris,  where  he  died 
at  an  advanced  age.  Besides  being  a  great  authority  in  the  law, 
whose  opinions  prevail  against  those  of  his  colleagues  R.  Meir, 
R.  Jehuda  and  R.  Simon,  he  was  an  historian  to  whom  the 
authorship  of  the  chronological  book  Seder  Olani  is  ascribed. 

4.  R.  Simon  b.  Jochai  from  GaHlee,  in  the  Mishna  called 
simply  R.  Simon,  was  Hkewise  one  of  the  most  distinguished 
disciples  of  R.  Akiba,  whose  lectures  he  attended  during  thir- 
teen years.  "Be  satisfied  that  I  and  thy  creator  know  thy 
powers,"  were  the  words  with  which  this  teacher  comforted 
him,  when  he  felt  somewhat  slighted  on  account  of  a  certain 
preference  given  to  his  younger  colleague  R.  Meir.  He  shared 
the  fate  of  his  colleagues  in  being  compelled  to  flee  after  ordi- 
nation. Afterwards,  he  joined  them  at  the  new  seat  of  the 
Sanhedrin  in  Usha.  On  a  certain  occasion  he  gave  vent  to  his 
bitter  feeHng  against  the  Romans,  which  was  reported  to  the 
Roman  governor,  who  condemned  him  to  death.  He,  how- 
ever, escaped  this  fate  by  concealing  himself  in  a  cave,  where 
he  is  said  to  have  remained  for  several  years,  together  with  his 
son,  engaged  in  the  study  of  the  law,  and  subsisting  on  the 
fruit  of  the  carob-trees  which  abounded  there  in  the  neighbor- 
hood. In  the  meantime  political  affairs  had  taken  a  favorable 
turn,  so  that  he  had  no  longer  to  fear  any  persecution ;  he  left 
his  hiding  place  and  reopened  his  academy  at  Tekoa,  in  Galilee, 
where  a  circle  of  disciples  gathered  around  him.  He  survived 
all  his  colleagues,  and  in  his  old  age  was  delegated  to  Rome, 
where  he  succeeded  in  obtaining  from  the  emperor  (Marcus 
Aurelius)  the  repeal  of  some  edicts  against  the  Jewish  religion. 

In  the  interpretation  of  the  law,  R.  Simon  departed  from 
the  method  of  his  teacher  R.  Akiba,  as  he  inclined  to  the  view 
of  R.  Ishmael  that  "the  Torah  speaks  the  common  language 
of  man,"  and  consequently  regarded  logical  reasoning  as  the 
proper  starting  point  for  legal  deductions,  instead  of  pleonastic 
words,  syllables  and  letters.  In  accordance  with  this  sound 
principle,  he  tried  to  investigate  the  evident  motive  of  different 
biblical  laws,  and  to  make  conclusions  therefrom  for  their 


HISTORICAL  AND   LITERARY   INTRODUCTION.      17 

proper  application.  In  regard  to  treating  and  arranging  the 
oral  law,  however,  he  followed  the  method  of  R.  Akiba  in  sub- 
suming various  provisions  imder  guiding  rules  and  principles. 
R.  Simon  is  regarded  as  the  author  of  the  Siphre,  though  that 
work  in  its  present  shape  shows  many  additions  by  the  hands 
of  later  authorities.* 

5.  R.  Elazar  b.  Shamua,  in  the  Mishna  simply  R.  Elazar, 
was  among  those  of  R.  Akiba's  disciples  who  in  consequence 
of  the  Hadrian  edicts  went  to  the  South,  whence  he  went  to 
Nisibis.  He  does  not,  however,  appear  to  have  joined  his 
colleagues  when  they  gathered  again  at  Usha.  He  is  regarded 
as  a  great  authority  in  the  law.  The  place  of  his  academy  is 
not  known,  but  it  is  stated  that  his  school  was  always  over- 
crowded by  disciples  eager  to  hear  his  learned  lectures.  Among 
his  disciples  was  also  the  later  patriarch  R.  Jehuda.  On  a 
journey,  he  visited  his  former  colleague  R.  Meir  at  Ardiscos, 
in  Asia  Minor,  and  v/ith  him  had  discussions  on  important 
questions  of  the  law,  which  are  recorded  in  the  Mishna  and 
Boraitha. 

6.  R.  Jochanan  the  Sandelar  had  this  surname  probably 
from  his  trade  in  sandals.  Born  in  Alexandria  in  Egypt,  he 
came  to  Palestine  to  attend  the  lectures  of  R.  Akiba,  and  was 
so  faithful  a  disciple  that  he  visited  this  teacher  even  in  prison, 
in  order  to  receive  instruction  from  him.  His  legal  opinions  are 
occasionally  recorded  in  the  Mishna  as  well  as  in  the  To- 
sephta  and  Boraitha. 

7.  R.  Elazar  (or  Eliezer)  b.  Jacob  was  a  disciple  of  R.  Akiba 
and  later  a  member  of  the  Sanhedrin  in  Usha.  This  teacher 
must  not  be  confounded  with  a  former  teacher  by  that  name 
who  flourished  in  the  second  generation. 

8.  R.  Nechemia  belonged  to  the  last  disciples  of  R.  Akiba 
and  was  an  authority  especially  in  the  sacrifi,cial  law,  and  in 
laws  concerning  levitical  purification.  His  controversies  are 
mostly  with  R.  Juda  b.  Ilai.  He  is  said  to  have  coippiled  a 
Mishna  collection  which  was  embodied  in  the  Tosephta. 

9.  R.  Joshua  b.  Korcha  is  supposed  by  some  to  have  been  a 
son  of  R.  Akiba,  who,  on  one  occasion,  is  called  by  such  a  sur- 

*  The  Cabbalists  ascribe  to  him  the  compiling  of  the  Zohar,  which  was  revealed 
by  Moses  d'  Leon.  The  Talmud  also  speaks  of  him  as  the  one  to  whom  miracles 
occurred  frequently. 


2 


U 


i8  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

name  (meaning  the  bald  head) ;  but  this  supposition  is  very 
improbable,  for  it  would  be  strange  that  the  son  of  so  illustrious 
a  man  should  not  rather  have  been  called  by  his  father's  proper 
name,  and  that  he  should  never  have  alluded  to  his  celebrated 
parent  or  to  any  of  his  teachincvs.* 

R.  Joshua  b.  K.  belonged  to  the  authorities  of  this  genera . 
tion,  though  only  a  few  of  his  opinions  are  recorded  in  the 
Mishna. 

lo.  R.  Simon  h.  Gamaliel  was  the  son  and  successor  of  the 
patriarch  Gamaliel  II.  of  Jabne.  In  his  youth,  he  witnessed 
the  fall  of  Bethar,  and  escaped  the  threatened  arrest  by  flight. 
After  the  death  of  the  emperor  Hadrian,  he  returned  to  Jabne 
where  he,  in  connection  with  some  teachers,  reopened  an  acad- 
emy, and  assumed  the  hereditary  dignity  of  a  patriarch.  As 
the  returning  disciples  of  R.  Akiba,  who  were  the  leading 
teachers  of  that  generation,  preferred  Usha  as  the  seat  of  the 
new  Sanhedrin,  R.  Simon  was  obliged  to  transfer  his  academy 
to  that  city,  and  appointed  R.  Nathan  as  Ab  Beth-din  (vice- 
president),  and  R.  Meir  as  Chacham  (advising  sage,  or  speaker). 
Both  of  these  officers  had  to  retire  however,  when  fotmd  plan- 
ning his  deposal  on  account  of  some  marks  of  distinction 
introduced  in  order  to  raise  the  patriarchal  dignity.  He  did 
not  enjoy  the  privilege  of  his  predecessors  to  be  titled  Rabban 
(our  teacher),  but  like  the  other  teachers,  he  was  simply  called 
Rabbi  (my  teacher), f  probably  because  many  of  his  contem- 
poraries were  superior  to  him  in  learning.  Still,  his  legal 
opinions,  which  are  frequently  quoted  in  the  Mishna  and 
Boraitha,  give  evidence  that  he  was  a  man  of  considerable 
learning  and  of  sound  and  clear  judgment  as  well  as  of  noble 
principles.  He  introduced  several  legal  provisions  for  the 
protection  of  the  rights  of  women  and  slaves,  and  for  the 
general  welfare  of  the  community.  All  his  opinions  expressed 
in  the  Mishna,  with  the  exception  of  only  three  cases,  are  re- 
garded by  later  teachers  as  authoritative  (Halakha).  His 
discussions  recorded  in  the  Mishna  and  Boraitha  are  mostly 

*  That  R.  Akiba  had  a  son  by  the  name  of  R.  Joshua  is  stated  in  a  Boraitha  ; 
but  the  identity  of  this  son  with  R.  Joshua  b.  Korcha  is  conclusively  disproved  by 
the  Tosaphist  Rabenu  Tam  in  his  remarks  on  Sabbath  150a,  and  B.  Bathra  113a. 

t  There  are,  however,  some  passages  in  the  Mishna  and  Gemara  in  which  he  is 
called  Rabban. 


HISTORICAL   AND    LITERARY   INTRODUCTION.     19 

held  with  his  celebrated  son,  R.  Jehuda  Hanasi.  R.  Simon  b. 
Gamaliel  appears  to  have  been  acquainted  also  with  the  Greek 
language  and  sciences. 

Apart  from  the  great  circle  of  teachers  mentioned  above, 
the  disciples  of  R.  Ishmael  b.  Elisha  formed  a  school  in  the 
extreme  South  of  Judea  (Darom),  where  they  continued  the 
methods  of  their  teacher.  Of  this  separate  school,  called  Debe 
R.  Ishmael,  only  two  members  are  mentioned  by  name:  R. 
Josiah  and  R.  Jonathan. 

Fifth  Generation. 

This  generation  extends  from  the  death  of  R.  Simon  b. 
Gamaliel  II.,  to  the  death  of  R.  Jehuda  Hanasi  (from  165  to 
about  200). 

The  following  are  the  most  prominent  teachers  of  this 
generation : 

(i)  R.  Nathan  (the  Babylonian);  (2)  Symmachos;  (3)  R. 
Jehuda  Hanasi  (the  Patriarch),  called  simply  Rabbi;  (4)  R. 
Joseb.  Juda;  (5)  R.  Elazarb.  Simon;  (6)  R.  Simon b.  Elazar. 
Strack  places  these  in  the  fourth  generation  and  adds  (7)  Dus- 
tayi  b.  Janai;  (8)  Simeon  b.  Jehuda,  of  the  village  Akum; 
(9)  Achia  b.  Joashai;  (10)  Jacob;  (11)  Itzchok;  (12)  Eliezar 
b.  Simeon  b.  Johai;  (13)  Pinchas  b.  Jaier;  (14)  Ischmael  b. 
Jos;  (15)  Menachem  b.  Jos  (b.  Chialaphta) ;  (16)  Jehudah  b. 
Lakish;  (17)  Elazar  Charkaper ;  (18)  Abba  Elazar  b.  Gamla; 
(19)  Simon  b.  Jos  b.  Lecunia;  (20)  Simon  b.  Menascha;  (21) 
Jehudah  b.  Tamah. 

The  junior  sages  of  the  fifth  generation  Strack  quotes  thus : 
(i)  Hyye  Rabbi  (the  Great);  (2)  Eliezer  b.  Kappara;  (3) 
Simeon  b.  'Halafta;  (4)  Lewib.  Sissi;  (5)  Simai. 

Both  Mielziner  and  Strack  do  not  count  Simon  Shezurri, 
one  of  the  great  Tanaim  who  belongs  to  the  third  generation, 
and  who  is  mentioned  in  the  Mishna  several  times,  and  of  whom 
it  is  said  (Menachoth,  30  b),  "  Ever5rwhere  the  name  of  Simeon 
Shezurri  is  mentioned,  the  Halakha  prevails  in  accordance  with 
him."  We  would  also  count  Wradimus  b.  R.  Jose  though 
according  to  some  he  was  identical  with  Menachem,  and  who 
was  one  of  the  greatest  Tanaim  in  the  time  of  Rabbi.  (See 
I.  H.  Weiss,  p.  166.)      [See   Appendix  No.  I.]      His  father, 


20  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

R.  Jose,  quotes  him  as  the  author  of  a  Halakha  (Tosephtha, 
Baba  Metzia). 

Characteristics  and  Biographical  Sketches. 

1.  R.  Nathan  was  the  son  of  one  of  the  exilarchs  in  Babylon, 
and  probably  received  his  education  in  his  native  country. 
For  some  unknown  reasons  he  emigrated  to  Judea,  and  on  ac- 
count of  his  great  learning  he  was  appointed  by  the  patriarch, 
R.  Simon  b.  GamaHel,  to  the  dignity  of  Ab-Beth-din  (chief 
Justice  or  vice-president),  in  the  Sanhedrin  of  Usha.  He  had 
to  retire  from  this  office  because  of  his  and  R.  Meir's  dissension 
with  the  patriarch,  but  was  soon  reinstated  and  became  recon- 
ciled with  the  Synhedrial  president,  who  held  him  in  high 
esteem.  Also  the  suceeding  patriarch,  R.  Jehuda,  with  whom 
he  had  many  discussions  on  questions  of  the  law,  speaks  of  him 
with  great  respect.  R.  Nathan  was  not  only  an  authority  in 
the  rabbinical  law,  especially  in  jurisprudence,  but  appears 
also  to  have  been  well  versed  in  mathematics,  astronomy  and 
other  sciences.  To  him  is  ascribed  the  authorship  of  Aboth 
de  R.  Nathan,  which  is  a  kind  of  Tosephta  to  Pirke  Aboth. 

2.  Symmachos  was  a  prominent  disciple  of  R.  Meir  and 
distinguished  for  his  great  dialectical  powers.  After  the  death 
of  his  teacher,  he  as  well  as  other  disciples  of  R.  Meir  were  ex- 
cluded from  the  academy  of  R.  Jehuda  Hanasi,  as  they  were 
charged  with  indulging  in  sophistical  disputations  in  order  to 
display  their  dialectical  sagacity,  instead  of  seeking  after  truth. 
Nevertheless  the  Mishna  as  well  as  the  Tosephta  makes  mention 
of  the  opinions  of  Symmachos.  His  renown  lay  in  the  rab- 
binical jurisprudence,  in  which  he  laid  down  certain  principles 
often  referred  to  in  the  Talmud. 

3.  R.  Jehuda  (Juda)  Hanasi,  by  way  of  eminence  simply 
called  Rabbi,  was  a  son  of  the  patriarch  R.  Simon  b.  Gamaliel 
II.,  and  is  said  to  have  been  bom  on  the  same  day  when  R. 
Akiba  was  executed.  His  principal  teachers  were  R.  Simon  b. 
Jochai  and  R.  Elazar  b.  Shamua,  under  whose  guidance  his 
intellectual  capacity  and  splendid  talents  early  developed. 
Besides  his  immense  knowledge  of  the  whole  range  of  the  tra- 
ditional law,  he  had  a  liberal  education  in  secular  branches  and 
was  especially  acquainted  with  the  Greek  language,  which  he 


HISTORICAL  AND   LITERARY   INTRODUCTION.     21 

preferred  to  the  Syriac,  the  popular  language  of  Palestine  at 
that  time.  After  the  death  of  his  father  he  succeeded  him  in 
the  dignity  of  patriarch,  and  became  the  chief  authority,  eclips- 
ing all  other  teachers  of  that  generation.  Though  blessed  with 
great  riches,  he  preferred  to  live  in  a  simple  style  and  applied 
his  wealth  to  the  maintenance  of  his  numerous  pupils  and  to 
charitable  works.  The  seat  of  his  academy  was  first  at  Beth- 
Shearim,  afterward  at  Sepphoris,  and  also  at  Tiberias.  Among 
his  most  distinguished  disciples  were :  R.  Chiya ;  (Simon)  bar 
Kappara;  Levi  bar  Sissi;  R.  Abba  Areca,  later  called  Rab; 
Mar  Samuel,  and  many  others.  He  is  said  to  have  been  in  a 
friendly  relation  with  one  of  the  Roman  emperors,  either 
Marcus  Aurelius,  or  more  probably,  Lucius  Ven.is  Antoninus. 
By  virtue  of  his  authority  R.  Jehuda  abolished  several  customs 
and  ceremonies  which,  though  sanctified  by  age,  had  become 
impracticable  through  the  change  of  times  and  circumstances. 
His  most  meritorious  work,  by  which  he  erected  for  himself  a 
monument  of  enduring  fame,  was  the  completion  of  the  Mishna 
compilation  which  henceforth  became  the  authoritative  code 
of  the  traditional  law  and  superseded  all  similar  compilations 
made  by  former  teachers. 

4.  R.  Jose  ben  Juda  (b.  Ilai)  belonged  to  the  great  teachers 
of  that  generation  and  was  a  friend  of  R.  Jehuda  Hanasi.  His 
legal  opinions  are  frequently  recorded  in  the  Mishna  as  well  as 
in  the  Tosephta. 

5.  R.  Elazar  h.  Simon  (b.  Jochai)  was  a  disciple  of  R.  Simon 
b.  Gamaliel  and  of  R.  Joshua  b.  Korcha.  Although  an  au- 
thority in  the  rabbinical  law  to  whom  even  the  patriarch  some- 
times yielded,  he  incurred  the  severest  censure  of  his  colleagues 
for  having,  on  a  certain  occasion,  lent  his  assistance  to  the 
Romans  in  prosecuting  some  Jewish  freebooters. 

6.  R.  Simon  b.  Elazar  (probably  E.  b.  Shamua),  was  a  dis- 
ciple of  R.  Meir,  whose  opinions  he  often  quotes.  He  estab- 
lished several  important  principles,  especially  in  the  civil  law. 

Sixth  Generation. 

To  this  generation  belong  the  younger  contemporaries  and 
disciples  of  R.  Juda  Hanasi.  They  are  not  mentioned  in  the 
Mishna,  but  in  the  Tosephta  and  Boraitha,  and  are  therefore 


22  THE   HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

termed  semi-Tanaim,  who  form  a  connecting  link  between  the 
period  of  Tanaim  and  that  of  the  Amoraim.     Their  names  are : 

(i)  PHmo;  (2)  Iseb.  Juda;  (3)  R.  Elazar  b.  Jose ;  (4)  R. 
Ishmael  bar  Jose;  (5)  R.  Juda  b.  Lakish;  (6)  R.  Chiya;  (7) 
R.  Acha;  (8)  R.  Abba  (Areca). 

There  is  no  sixth  generation  according  to  Strack,  and  all 
who  are  mentioned  here  he  includes  in  the  fifth  generation. 
We  have  to  remark  that  all  the  eight  mentioned  above  by 
Mielziner,  as  they  formed  the  last  generation  of  the  Tanaim, 
are  also  named  Amoraim ;  and  therefore  we  find  stated  in  many 
places  in  the  Talmud  where  one  of  the  above-mentioned  is  in 
conflict  with  a  Mishna  or  a  Boraitha :  "  He  is  a  Tana,  and  has. 
the  right  to  differ  with  the  authorities  of  the  Mishna  or  the 
Boraitha." 

The  most  prominent  among  these  semi-Tanaim  were  R. 
Chiya  and  R.  Abba  (Areca). 

1.  R.  Chiya  (bar  Abba)  the  elder,  which  epithet  is  to  dis- 
tinguish him  from  a  later  Amora  by  the  same  name,  was  a 
Babylonian  who  came  at  an  already  advanced  age  to  Palestine, 
where  he  became  the  most  distinguished  disciple  and  friend 
of  R.  Jehuda  Hanasi.  He  and  his  disciple  R.  Oshaya  (or 
Hoshaya)  are  regarded  as  the  principal  authors  or  compilers 
of  the  Tosephta. 

2.  R.  Abba  (Areca)  a  nephew  of  R.  Chiya,  was  likewise  a 
Babylonian,  and  a  disciple  of  R.  Jehuda  Hanasi,  after  whose 
death  he  returned  to  his  native  country,  where,  under  the  his- 
torical name  of  Rab,  he  became  the  principal  Amora.  (See 
the  following  chapter.) 

Of  other  distinguished  teachers  flourishing  in  this  generation 
and  in  the  beginning  of  the  period  of  the  Amoraim,  we  have  to 
mention  especially  i?.  Janai  (the  elder),  and  R.  Jonathan  (the 
elder).  The  former  lived  in  Sepphoris  and  was  one  of  the 
teachers  of  R.  Jochanan  bar  Naphacha,  the  greatest  among  the 
Palestinian  Amoraim. 

CHAPTER  III. 

THE    AMORAIM    OR    EXPOUNDERS    OF    THE    MISHNA. 

As  the  Mishna  compilation  of  R.  Jehuda  Hanasi  became 
the  authoritative  code  of  the  oral  Law,  the  activity  of  the 


HISTORICx\L   AND   LITERARY   INTRODUCTION.     23 

teachers  was  principally  devoted  to  expounding  this  code. 
This  was  done  as  well  in  the  academies  of  Tiberias,  Sepphoris, 
CcBsarea  in  Palestine,  as  in  those  of  Nahardea,  Sura,  and  later 
of  Pumhaditha  and  some  other  seats  of  learning  in  Babylonia. 
The  main  object  of  the  lectures  and  discussions  in  those  acad- 
emies was  to  interpret  the  often  very  brief  and  concise  expres- 
sion of  the  Mishna,  to  investigate  its  reasons  and  sources,  to 
reconcile  seeming  contradictions,  to  compare  its  canons  with 
those  of  the  Boraithoth,  and  to  apply  its  decisions  and  estab- 
lished principles  to  new  cases  not  yet  provided  for.  The 
teachers  who  were  engaged  in  this  work,  which  finally  became 
embodied  in  the  Gemara,  are  called  Amoraim,  meaning  speak- 
ers, interpreters,  expounders.*  They  were  not  as  independent 
in  their  legal  opinions  and  decisions  as  their  predecessors,  the 
Tanaim  and  semi-Tanaim,  as  they  had  not  the  authority  to 
contradict  Halakhoth  and  principles  accepted  in  the  Mishna 
or  Boraitha.  The  Palestinian  Amoraim,  having  generally  been 
ordained  by  the  Nasi,  had  the  title  of  Rabbi,  while  the  Baby- 
lonian teachers  of  that  period  had  only  the  title  of  Rab  or  of 
Mar. 

The  period  of  Amoraim  extends  from  the  death  of 
R.  Jehuda  Hanasi  to  the  compilation  of  the  Babylonian 
Talmud ;  that  is,  from  the  beginning  of  the  third  to  the  end 
of  the  fifth  century.  This  period  has  been  divided  by  some 
into  six,  by  others  into  seven,  minor  periods  or  generations, 
which  are  determined  by  the  beginning  and  the  end  of  the 
activity  of  the  most  prominent  teachers  flourishing  during 
that  time. 

The  number  of  Amoraim  who  are  mentioned  in  the  Talmud 
amounts  to  several  htmdreds.  The  most  distinguished  among 
them,  especially  those  who  presided  over  the  great  academies, 


*  In  a  more  restricted  meaning  the  term  Amora{irom.  10K,  to  say,  to  speak)  sig- 
nifies the  same  zs  AIethurgeman{\hQ  interpreter),  that  is,  the  officer  in  the  academies 
who,  standing  at  the  side  of  the  lecturer  or  presiding  teacher,  had  to  announce 
loudly  and  explain  to  the  large  assembly  what  the  teacher  just  expressed  briefly  and  in 
a  low  voice. 

The  term  Tana,  which  generally  applies  only  to  the  teachers  mentioned  in  the 
Mishna  and  Boraitha,  is  in  the  period  of  Amoraim  sometimes  used  also  to  signify  one 
whose  special  business  it  was  to  recite  the  memorized  Boraithoth  to  the  expounding 
teachers.  In  this  sense  the  term  is  to  be  understood  in  the  phrase  :  A  Tana  (teacher) 
repeated  a  Boraitha  (or  taught  same)  before  so  and  so,  etc. 


84  THE    HISTORY   OF  THE   TALMUD. 

are  contained  in  the  following  chronological  tables  of  the  six 
generations  of  Amoraim.* 

The  First  Generation  of  Amoraim. 

A.     Palestinian  (219-279).  B.     Babylonian  (219-257). 

1 .  R.  Chanina  bar  Chama.  i .  Abba  Areca,  called  simply 

2.  R.  Jochanan  (bar  Napacha),         Rab. 

3.  R.  Simon  ben  Lakish  (Resh  2.  (Mar)  Samuel. 

Lakish). 

4.  R.  Joshua  ben  Levi. 

Strack  adds  to  the  first  generation  of  the  Palestinian,  (5) 
Hama  b.  Biza;  (6)  Janai;  (7)  Jehuda;  and  (8)  Hiskiah  sons  of 
Hyye;  (9)   Bnya  or  Bnaah;  (10)  Pdaya  or  Jehuda  b.  Pdaya; 

(11)  Hoshia  b.  Hanninah  b.  Biza,  named  Rabbh  the  Great; 

(12)  Jose  b.  Zimra;    (13)  Simon  b.  Yehozodak. 

To  the  Babylonian  Amoraim  he  adds,  (3)  Shila;  (4)  Abba 
b.  Abba  (father  of  Mar  Samuel) ;  (5)  Kama  t ;  (6)  Mar 
Uqba  (the  Exilarch). 

All  the  Palestinian  Amoraim  named  here  are  very  often 
mentioned  in  the  Babylonian  Talmud,  and  as  their  biograph- 
ical sketches  are  interesting  we  could  not  omit  them. 

Biographical  Sketches. 

A.       PALESTINIAN    AMORAIM. 

During  this  generation  R.  Gamaliel  IIL  and  R.  Judah  IL 
were  successively  the  patriarchs. 

I.  R.  Chanina  bar  Chama  (bom  about  180,  died  260),  was 
a  disciple  of  R.  Jehuda  Hanasi,  whose  son  and  successor,  R. 
Gamaliel  IIL,  bestowed  on  him  the  title  of  Rabbi.  He  then 
presided  over  his  own  academy  in  Sepphoris  and  stood  in  high 
regard  on  account  of  his  learning,  modesty  and  piety.      As 

*  Some  scholars  count  the  semi-Tanaira  as  the  first  generation,  and  have  con- 
sequently seven  instead  of  six  generations.  The  period  of  Palestinian  Amoraim 
being  much  shorter  than  that  of  the  Babylonian,  ends  with  the  third  generation  of  the 
latter.  Frankel  in  his  introduction  to  the  Palestinian  Talmud,  treating  especially  of 
the  Palestinian  Amoraim,  divides  them  also  into  six  generations. 

f  Who  was  appointed  by  Mar  Samuel  to  examine  Rab.  (Will  be  translated  in 
Tract  Kethubath.) 


HISTORICAL  AND   LITERARY   INTRODUCTION.     25 

teacher  he  was  very  conservative,  transmitting  that  only  which 
he  had  received  by  tradition,  without  ever  allowing  himself 
an  independent  decision.  Of  his  prominent  contemporaries 
are :  R.  Ephes,  who  reopened  a  school  at  Lydda,  in  South  Judea ; 
Levi  h.  Sissi  (called  simply  Levi),  who,  though  not  presiding 
over  an  academy,  was  a  distinguished  teacher,  and  later  emi- 
grated to  Babylonia;  further  Chizkia,  who  was  a  son  of  R. 
Chiya  the  Elder,  and  whose  teachings  are  frequently  quoted 
in  the  Talmud.  This  Chizkia,  who  had  not  the  title  of  Rabbi, 
must  not  be  mistaken  for  R.  Chizkia,  who  belonged  to  the 
third  generation. 

2.  R.  Jochanan  bar  Napacha,  in  general  called  simply  R. 
Jochanan  (bom  about  199,  died  279),  was  in  his  early  youth  a 
disciple  of  R.  Jehuda  Hanasi,  later  of  R.  Oshaya  in  Cassarea, 
also  of  R.  Janai,  and  especially  of  R.  Chanina  b.  Chama.  He 
then  founded  his  own  academy  in  Tiberias,  which  henceforth 
became  the  principal  seat  of  learning  in  the  Holy  Land.  By 
his  great  mental  powers  he  excelled  all  his  contemporaries,  and 
is  regarded  the  chief  Amora  of  Palestine.  In  expounding  the 
Mishna  he  introduced  an  analytical  method,  and  laid  down 
certain  rules  for  the  final  decision  in  such  cases  in  which  the 
Tanaim  expressed  opposite  opinions.  His  legal  teachings, 
ethical  aphorisms,  and  exegetical  remarks,  transmitted  by  his 
numerous  disciples,  form  the  principal  elements  of  the  Gemara. 
He  is  supposed  to  have  laid  the  foundation  of  the  Palestinian 
Talmud,  though,  in  its  present  shape,  this  work  can  not  have 
been  compiled  before  at  least  one  century  after  R.  Jochanan's 
death.* 

3,  R.  Simon  h.  Lakish,  whose  name  is  generally  abbrevi- 
ated to  Resh  Lakish,  was  a  man  who  combined  great  physical 
strength  with  a  noble  heart  and  a  powerful  mind.  It  is  said 
that  in  his  youth  he  was  compelled  by  circumstances  to  gain 
his  livelihood  as  a  gladiator  or  soldier,  until  making  the  ac- 
quaintance of  R.  Jochanan,  who  gained  him  for  the  study  of 
the  law  and  gave  him  his  sister  in  marriage.     Having  developed 

*  As  to  further  characteristics  of  this  and  the  other  prominent  Amoraim,  the  fol- 
lowing works  may  be  consulted  :  Graetz,  "  History  of  the  Jews,"  Vol.  IV.;  Z.  Fran- 
kel,  "  Mebo"  ;  I.  H.  Weiss,  "  Dor  Dor,"  Vol.  III.;  I.  Hamburger,  "  Real  Encyclo- 
padie,"  Vol.  II.  Besides,  J.  Furst,  "  Kultur  und  Literaturgeschichte  der  Juden  in 
Asien,"  which  treats  especially  of  the  Babylonian  academies  and  teachers  during  thr 
period  of  the  Amoraim. 


26  THE   HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

extraordinary  mental  and  dialectical  powers,  he  became  R. 
Jochanan's  most  distinguished  friend  and  colleague.  In  the 
interpretation  of  the  Mishna  and  in  legal  questions  they  differed, 
however,  very  often,  and  their  numerous  controversies  are  re- 
ported in  the  Babylonian  Talmud  as  well  as  in  the  Palestinian. 
Also  is  his  Hagadic  teachings,  Resh  Lakish  was  original  and  ad- 
vanced some  very  rational  views. 

4.  R.  Joshua  b.  Levi  (ben  Sissi)  presided  over  an  academy 
in  Lydda.  He  is  regarded  as  a  great  authority  in  the  law,  and 
his  decisions  prevail  even  in  cases  where  his  celebrated  con- 
temporaries, R.  Jochanan  and  Resh  Lakish  differ  from  him. 
Though  himself  a  prolific  Hagadist,  he  disapproved  of  the 
vagaries  of  the  Hagada,  and  objected  to  their  being  written 
down  in  books.  The  circumstance  that,  on  a  certain  occasion, 
his  prayer  for  rain  proved  to  be  efficient,  probably  gave  rise 
to  the  mystic  legends  with  which  the  fancy  of  later  genera- 
tions tried  to  illustrate  his  great  piety. 

To  other  celebrities  flourishing  in  this  generation  belongs  R. 
Simlai  of  Lydda,  who  later  settled  in  Nahardea.  He  was  re- 
puted less  as  teacher  of  the  Halakha  than  for  his  ingenious  and 
lucid  method  of  treating  the  Hagada. 

B.      BABYLONIAN   AMORAIM. 

I.  Ahha  Areca  (or  Aricha)  was  the  real  name  of  the  chief 
Babylonian  Amora,  who,  by  way  of  eminence,  is  generally 
called  Rah  (the  Teacher).  He  was  bom  about  175  and  died  247. 
As  an  orphaned  youth  he  went  to  his  uncle,  the  celebrated  R. 
Chiya  in  Palestine,  to  finish  his  studies  in  the  academy  of  R. 
Jehuda  Hanasi.  The  mental  abilities  which  he  displayed  soon 
attracted  general  attention.  After  the  death  of  R.  Jehuda, 
Abba  returned  to  his  native  country,  and  in  the  year  219 
founded  the  academy  in  Sura,  where  1,200  pupils  flocked 
aroimd  him  from  all  parts  of  Babylonia.  His  authority  was 
recognized  even  by  the  most  celebrated  teachers  in  Palestine. 
Being  regarded  as  one  of  the  semi-Tanaim,  he  ventured  in 
some  instances  even  to  dispute  some  opinions  accepted 
in  the  Mishna,  a  privilege  otherwise  not  accorded  to  any 
of  the  Amoraim.  Most  of  his  decisions,  cspeciall}^  in  ritual 
questions,  obtained  legal  sanction,  but  in  the  civil  law  his 


HISTORICAL   AND   LITERARY   INTRODUCTION.     27 

friend  Samuel  in  Nahardea  was  his  superior.  Over  one  hun- 
dred of  his  numerous  disciples,  who  transmitted  his  teachings 
and  decisions  to  later  generations,  are  mentioned  in  the  Taknud 
by  their  names. 

2.  Samuel,  or  Mar  Samuel,  was  bom  about  180  in  Nahardea, 
died  there  257.  His  father,  Abba  bar  Abba,  and  Levi  b.  Sissi 
were  his  first  teachers.  Like  Rab  he  went  to  Palestine  and 
became  a  disciple  of  Rabbi  Jehuda  Hanasi,  from  whom,  how- 
ever, he  could  not  obtain  the  ordination.  After  his  return  to 
Nahardea,  he  succeeded  R.  Shela  in  the  dignity  oi  president  of 
the  academy  (Resh-Sidra)  in  that  city.  Besides  the  law,  he 
cultivated  the  sciences  of  medicine  and  astronomy.  As  Amora 
he  developed  especially  the  rabbinical  jurisprudence,  in  which 
he  was  regarded  as  the  greatest  authority.*  Among  other  im- 
portant principles  established  by  him  is  that  of  '' Dina  d'mal- 
chutha  Dina,"  that  is,  the  civil  law  of  the  government  is  as 
valid  for  the  Jews  as  their  own  law.  The  most  friendly  and 
brotherly  relation  prevailed  between  Samuel  and  Rab,  although 
they  often  differed  in  questions  of  the  law.  After  Rab's  death 
(247),  his  disciples  recognized  Samuel  as  the  highest  religious 
authority  of  Babylonia.  He  died  about  ten  years  later,  leav- 
ing behind  ninnerous  disciples,  several  of  whom  became  the 
leading  teachers  in  the  following  generation. 

A  distinguished  contemporary  of  Samuel  was  Mar  Uqba,  at 
first  head  of  the  court  in  Kafri,  and  later  Exilarch  in  Nahardea. 

The  Second  Generation  of  Amoraim. 
A.     Palestinian  (279-320).  B.     Babylonian  (257-320). 


I.  R.  Elazarb.  Pedath. 

I.  Rab  Huna. 

2.  R.  Ame. 

2.  Rab  Juda  bar  Jecheskel, 

3.  R.  Assi. 

3.  Rab  Chisda   (or  Chasda) 

4.  R.  Chiya  bar  Abba. 

4.  Rab  Shesheth. 

5 .  Simon  bar  Abba. 

5.  Rab  Nachman  b.  Jacob. 

6.  R.  Abbuhu. 

7.  R.  Zera  (Zeira). 

To  the  second  generation  of  the  Palestinian,  Strack  adds, 
(8)  Jehudah  the  Second  (son  of  Gamalia  III.),  (Johanan  and 

*  Mar  Samuel  made  also  a  compilation  of  Boraithoth,  which  is  quoted  in  the 
Talmud  by  the  phrase  "  the  disciples  of  Samuel." 


aS  THE   HISTORY  OF  THE  TALMUD. 

Simon  b.  Lakish  Strack  refers  to  the  second  generation) ;  (9) 
Hilfa  or  Hfa;  (10)  Alexanderi;  (11)  Khana;  (12)  Chia  bar 
Joseph;  (13)  Jos  b.  Chaninah ;  (14)  Abbab.  Zabdah,  and  (15) 
Simlaie. 

To  the  Babylonian  Strack  adds,  (6)  Ktinah;  (7)  Adda  b. 
Ahba ;  (8)  Rabba  b.  Abuhu,  and  (9)  Mathna. 

Remarks  and  Biographical  Sketches. 

A.      PALESTINIAN    AMORAIM. 

The  patriarchate  during  this  generation  was  successively 
in  the  hands  of  R.  Gamaliel  IV.,  and  R.  Judah  III, 

1.  R.  Elazar  ben  Pedath,  generally  called  simply  R.  Elazar, 
like  the  Tana  R.  Elazar  (ben  Shamua),  for  whom  he  must  not 
be  mistaken,  was  a  native  of  Babylonia,  and  a  disciple  and 
later  an  associate  of  R.  Jochanan,  whom  he  survived.  He 
enjoyed  great  authority  and  is  very  often  quoted  in  the  Talmud. 

2.  and  3.  R.  Ame  and  R.  Assi  were  likewise  Babylonians, 
and  distinguished  disciples  of  R.  Jochanan.  After  the  death 
of  R.  Elazar  they  became  the  heads  of  the  declining  academy 
in  Tiberias.  They  had  the  title  only  of  ' '  Judges,  or  the  Aaron- 
ites  of  the  Holy  Land,"  and  subordinated  themselves  to  the 
growing  authority  of  the  teachers  in  Babylonia.  Rabbi  Assi 
is  not  to  be  confounded  with  his  contemporary  the  Babylonian 
Amora  Rab  Assi,  who  was  a  colleague  of  Rab  Saphra  and  a 
disciple  of  Rab  in  Sura.* 

4.  and  5.  R.  Chiya  bar  Abba  and  Simon  bar  Abba  were  prob- 
ably brothers.  They  had  emigrated  from  Babylonia  and  be- 
came disciples  of  R.  Jochanan,  Both  were  distinguished 
teachers,  but  very  poor.  In  questions  of  the  law  they  were 
inclined  to  rigorous  views. 

6.  R.  Abbahu  of  Caesarea,  disciple  of  R.  Jochanan,  friend 
and  colleague  of  R.  Ame  and  R.  Assi,  was  a  man  of  great  wealth 
and  of  a  liberal  education.  He  had  a  thorough  knowledge  of  the 
Greek  language,  and  favored  Greek  culture.  Being  held  in 
high  esteem  by  the  Roman  authorities,  he  had  great  political 
influence.  He  seems  to  have  had  frequent  controversies  with 
the  teachers  of  Christianity  in  Caesarea,      Besides  being  a 

*  See  Tosephoth  Chullin,  19a. 


HISTORICAL   AND    LITERARY   INTRODUCTION.     29 

prominent  teacher  whose  legal  opinions  are  quoted  in  all  parts 
of  the  Palestinian  and  Babylonian  Talmud,  he  was  a  very 
popular  lecturer. 

7.  R.  Zeira  (or  Zera),  was  a  Babylonian  and  a  disciple  of 
Rab  Juda  bar  Jecheskel,  but  dissatisfied  with  the  hair-splitting 
method  prevailing  in  the  academies  of  his  native  country,  he 
emigrated  to  Palestine  where  he  attended  the  lectures  of  R. 
Elazar  b.  Pedath  in  Tiberias,  and  tried,  in  vain,  to  unlearn  his 
former  method  of  study.  Having  been  ordained  as  Rabbi,  he 
became  one  of  the  authorities  in  Palestine,  together  with  R. 
Ame,  R.  Assi  and  R.  Abbuhu. 

B.       BABYLONIAN    AMORAIM. 

1.  Rab  Huna  (born  212,  died  297)  was  a  disciple  of  Rab, 
whom,  after  Mar  Samuel's  death,  he  succeeded  as  president  of 
the  academy  in  Sura.  In  this  office  he  was  active  for  forty 
years.  He  employed  fifteen  assistants  to  repeat  and  explain 
his  lectures  to  his  800  disciples.  Highly  revered  for  his  great 
learning  and  his  noble  character,  he  enjoyed  an  undisputed 
authority  to  which  even  the  Palestinian  teachers  R.  Ame  and 
R.  Assi  voluntarily  subordinated  themselves. 

2.  Rah  Juda  bar  Jecheskel,  generally  called  simply  R.  Juda 
(or  Jehuda),  was  a  disciple  of  Rab,  and  also  of  Samuel.  The 
latter  teacher,  whose  peculiar  method  he  adopted  and  devel- 
oped, used  to  characterize  him  b}^  the  epithet,  "the  acute." 
He  founded  the  academy  in  Pumbaditha,  but  after  R.  Huna's 
death  he  was  chosen  as  his  successor  (Resh  Methibta),  at  Sura, 
where  after  two  years  (299),  he  died  at  an  advanced  age. 

3.  Rab  Chisda  (or  Chasda)  belonged  to  the  younger  dis- 
ciples of  Rab,  after  whose  death  he  attended  also  the  lectures 
of  R.  Huna.  But  from  the  latter  teacher  he  soon  separated 
on  account  of  a  misunderstanding  between  them,  and  estab- 
lished a  school  of  his  own.  At  the  same  time,  he  was  one  of 
the  Judges  in  Sura.  After  Rab  Juda's  death,  R.  Chisda, 
though  already  above  eighty  years  old,  became  head  of  the 
academy  in  Sura,  and  remained  in  this  office  for  about  ten  years. 

4.  Rab  Shesheth,  a  disciple  of  Rab  and  Samuel,  was  member 
of  the  court  in  Nahardea.  After  the  destruction  of  that  city 
he  went  to  Mechuza ;  later  he  settled  in  Silhi,  where  he  founded 


30  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

an  academy.  Being  blind,  he  had  to  rely  upon  his  powerful 
memory.  He  was  R.  Chisda's  opponent  in  the  Halakha,  and 
disapproved  of  the  hair-splitting  dialectical  method  which  had 
come  in  vogue  among  the  followers  of  Rah  Juda  in  Pumbaditha. 

5.  Rab  Nachman  b.  Jacob,  called  simply  Rab  Nachman,  was 
a  prominent  disciple  of  Mar  Samuel.  By  his  father-in-law,  the 
exilarch  Abba  bar  Abuha,  he  was  appoined  chief  justice  in 
Nahardea.  After  Mar  Samuel's  death,  he  succeeded  him  as 
rector  of  the  academy  in  that  city.  When  two  years  later 
(259),  the  city  of  Nahardea  was  destroyed,  R.  Nachman  settled 
in  Shechan-Zib.  He  is  regarded  as  a  great  authority  especially  in 
the  rabbinical  jurisprudence,  in  which  he  established  many  im- 
portant principles.  Among  others,  he  originated  the  rabbinical 
oath,  that  is,  the  purging  oath  imposed  in  a  law  suit  on  claims 
even  in  cases  of  general  denial  on  the  part  of  the  defendant. 
Of  other  teachers  belonging  to  this  generation,  who,  though 
not  standing  at  the  head  of  the  leading  academies,  are  often 
quoted  in  the  Talmud,  the  following  must  be  noted: 

(a)  Rabba  bar  bar  Ghana,  who  was  a  Babylonian  and  son 
of  Abba  bar  Ghana.  After  having  attended  the  academy  of 
R.  Jochanan  in  Palestine,  he  returned  to  his  native  country, 
where  he  frequently  reported  the  opinions  of  his  great  teacher. 
He  is  also  noted  for  the  many  allegorical  narratives  ascribed 
to  him  in  the  Talmud. 

(6)  Ulla  (b.  Ishmael),  was  a  Palestinian  who  frequently 
travelled  to  Babylonia,  where  he  finally  settled  and  died.  Al- 
though without  the  title  of  Rabbi  or  Rab,  he  was  regarded  as 
a  distinguished  teacher  whose  opinions  and  reports  are  often 
mentioned. 

The  Third  Generation  of  Amoraim. 

A.     Palestinian  (320-359).  B.     Babylonian  (320-375). 

1.  R.  Jeremiah.  i.  Rabba  bar  Huna. 

2.  R.  Jonah.  2.  Rabba  bar  Nachmani. 

3.  R.  Jose.  3.  Rab  Joseph  (bar  Chiya). 

4.  Abaye. 

5.  Rabha. 

6.  Rab  Nachman  bar  Isaac. 

7.  Rab  Papa. 


HISTORICAL  AND   LITERARY  INTRODUCTION.     31 

To  the  Palestinian,  Strack  adds,  (4)  Samuel  b.  Nachman 
(in  the  Babylonian  he  is  mentioned  as  Nachmani) ;  (5)  Itzhak 
the  second  (his  contemporary  in  Babylonia  is  Nachman  b. 
Jacob);  (6)  Lewi;  (7)  Abuhu;  (8)  Ami;  (9)  Assi;  (10)  Hyya 
b.  Abba  II.  (Elazar  b.  Pedath  he  quotes  in  the  third  gen- 
eration);  (11)  Simeon  b.  Abba;  (12)  Simur  (also  Zera  is 
mentioned  among  the  second  generation);  (13)  Samuel  b. 
Itzhak;  (14)  Hilla  or  Illeh;  (15)  Zrika;  (16)  Hoshia  the  sec- 
ond; (17)  Chananiah  (the  colleague  of  the  Rabbinat)*;  (18) 
Janai  b.  Ishmael;  (19)  Joshua;  (20)  Ban  b.  Mamal  (in  Baby- 
lonia named  Abba  b.  Mamal) ;  (21)  Jacob  b.  Ide;  (22)  Itzhak 
b.  Nachma;  (23)  Maysha;  (24)  Bibe;  (Haggi  and  Jeremiah 
Strack  quotes  as  belonging  also  to  the  fourth  generation). 

To  the  Babylonian,  Strack  adds,  (8)  Chisda;  (9)  Ham- 
nuna;  (10)  Shesheth;  (11)  Nachma  b.  Jacob;  (12)  Rabba 
b.  b.  Hanna;  (13)  Ulla  b.  Ishmael;  (14)  Rabba  b.  Nachmene, 
and  (15)  Joseph  b.  Hiah. 

Remarks  and  Biographical  Sketches. 

A.      PALESTINIAN    AMORAIM. 

The  patriarch  of  this  period  was  HiUel  11. ,  who  introduced 
the  fixed  Jewish  calendar. 

In  consequence  of  the  persecutions  and  the  banishment  of 
several  religious  teachers  under  the  emperors  Constantine  and 
Constantius,  the  Palestinian  academies  entirely  decayed.  The 
only  teachers  of  any  prominence  are  the  following: 

1.  R.  Jeremiah  was  a  Babylonian  and  disciple  of  R.  Zeira, 
whom  he  followed  to  Palestine.  In  his  younger  days,  when 
still  in  his  native  coimtry,  he  indulged  in  propoimding  puzzling 
questions  of  trifling  casuistry,  by  which  he  probably  intended 
to  ridicule  the  subtile  method  prevailing  among  some  of  the 
contemporary  teachers,  and  on  this  account  he  was  expelled 
from  the  academy.  In  the  Holy  Land  he  was  more  appre- 
ciated, and,  after  the  death  of  R.  Abbahu  and  R.  Zeira,  was 
acknowledged  as  the  only  authority  in  that  country. 

2.  R.  Jonah  was  a  disciple  of  R.  Ila  (Hila)  and  of  R.  Jere- 

*  There  are  eight  Tanaim  and  twenty-three  Amoraim  named  Chananiah.  We 
do  not  remember  who  was  called  so  as  Strack  did. 


32  THE   HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

miah.  His  opinions  are  frequently  quoted,  especially  in  the 
Palestinian  Talmud. 

3.  R.  Jose  (bar  Zabda),  colleague  of  R.  Jonah,  was  one  of 
the  last  rabbinical  authorities  in  Palestine. 

It  is  probable  that  the  compilation  of  the  Palestinian 
Talmud  was  accomplished  about  that  time,  though  it  cannot  be 
stated  by  whom. 

B.      BABYLONIAN    AMORAIM. 

1.  Rabha  (or  Rab  Abba)  bar  Huna  was  not,  as  erroneously 
supposed  by  some,  the  son  of  the  exilarch  Huna  Mari,  but  of 
Rab  Huna,  the  disciple  and  successor  of  Rab.  After  the  death 
of  R.  Chisda  (309),  he  succeeded  him  in  the  dignity  of  president 
of  the  academy  in  Sura.  Under  his  presidency,  lasting  thir- 
teen years,  this  academy  was  eclipsed  by  that  of  Pumbaditha, 
and  after  his  death  it  remained  deserted  for  about  fifty  years 
until  Rab  Ashe  restored  it  to  its  former  glory. 

2 .  Rabha  bar  Nachmani,  in  the  Talmud  called  simply  Rabba 
was  bom  270,  and  died  330.  He  was  a  disciple  of  Rab  Hima, 
Rab  Juda  and  Rab  Chisda,  and  displayed  from  his  youth  great 
dialectical  powers  on  account  of  which  he  was  characterized 
as  "the  uprooter  of  mountains."  Selected  as  head  of  the 
academy  of  Pumbaditha,  he  attracted  large  crowds  of  hearers 
by  his  ingenious  method  of  teaching.  In  his  lectures  which 
commented  on  all  parts  of  the  Mishna,  he  investigated  the 
reason  of  the  laws  and  made  therefrom  logical  deductions. 
Besides,  he  tried  to  reconcile  seeming  differences  between  the 
Mishna,  the  Baraithoth,  and  the  traditional  teachings  of  later 
authorities.  He  also  liked  to  propound  puzzling  problems  of 
the  law,  in  order  to  test  and  sharpen  the  mental  powers  of  his 
disciples.  A  charge  having  been  made  against  him  by  the 
Persian  government  that  many  of  his  numerous  hearers  at- 
tended his  lectures  in  order  to  evade  the  poll-tax,  he  fled  from 
Pumbaditha  and  died  in  solitude. 

3.  Rah  Joseph  (bar  Chiya)  was  a  disciple  of  Rab  Juda  and 
Rab  Shesheth,  and  succeeded  his  friend  Rabba  in  the  dignity 
of  president  of  the  academy  in  Pumbadita,  after  having  once 
before  been  elected  for  this  office,  which  he  declined  in  favor  of 
Rabba.     On  account  of  his  thorough  knowledge  of  the  sources 


HISTORICAL   AND   LITERARY   INTRODUCTION.     33 

of  the  Law,  to  which  he  attached  more  importance  than  to 
ingenious  deductions,  he  was  called  Sinai.  Besides  being  a 
great  authority  in  the  rabbinical  law,  he  devoted  himself  to 
the  Targum  of  the  Bible,  especially  of  the  prophetical  books. 
In  his  old  age  he  became  blind.  He  died  in  the  year  333,  after 
having  presided  over  the  academy  of  Pumbaditha  only  for 
three  years. 

4.  Abaye,  sumamed  Nachmani  (b.  280,  d.  338)  was  a  son 
of  Kay  HI  and  a  pupil  of  his  uncle  Rabba  bar  Nachmani,  and  of 
Rab  Joseph.  He  was  highly  esteemed  not  only  for  his  pro- 
found knowledge  of  the  law  and  his  mastership  in  Talmudical 
dialectics,  but  also  for  his  integrity  and  gentleness.  After  Rab 
Joseph's  death  he  was  selected  as  head  of  the  academy  in  Pum- 
baditha, but  under  his  administration,  which  lasted  about  five 
years,  the  number  of  hearers  in  that  academy  decreased  con- 
siderably, as  his  more  talented  colleague  Raba  had  founded  a 
new  academy  in  Machuza  which  attracted  greater  crowds  of 
pupils.  Under  these  two  Amoraim  the  dialectical  method  of 
the  Babylonian  teachers  reached  the  highest  development. 
Their  discussions,  which  mostly  concern  some  very  nice  dis- 
tinctions in  the  interpretation  of  the  Mishna,  in  order  to  recon- 
cile conflicting  passages,  fill  the  pages  of  the  Talmud.*  In 
their  differences  concerning  more  practical  questions,  the 
opinion  of  Raba  generally  prevails,  so  that  later  authorities 
pointed  out  only  six  cases  in  which  the  decision  of  Abaye  was 
to  be  adopted  against  that  of  his  rival. 

5.  Raba  was  the  son  of  Joseph  b.  Chama  in  Machuza.  He 
was  bom  299,  and  died  352.  In  his  youth  he  attended  the 
lectures  of  Rab  Nachman  and  of  R.  Chisda.  Later,  he  and 
Abaye  were  fellow-students  in  the  academy  of  Rabba  bar 
Nachmani.  Here  he  developed  his  dialectical  powers,  by  which 
he  soon  surpassed  all  his  contemporaries.  He  opened  an  acad- 
emy in  Machuza  which  attracted  a  great  number  of  students. 
After  Abaye's  death  this  academy  supplanted  that  in  Pumba- 
ditha and  during  Raba's  lifetime  became  almost  the  only  seat 
of  learning  in  Babylonia.  His  controversies  with  his  contem- 
poraries, especially  with  his  rival  colleague,  Abaye,  are  very 

*  The  often  very  subtile  argumentations  of  these  two  teachers  became  so  pro- 
verbial that  the  phrase  "the  critical  questions  of  Abaye  and  Raba"  is  used  in  the 
Talmud  as  a  signification  of  acute  discussions  and  minute  investigations. 

3  ii 


34  THE    HISTORY   OF  THE   TALMUD. 

numerous.  Wherever  an  opinion  of  Abaye  is  recorded  in  the 
Talmud,  it  is  almost  always  followed  by  the  contrary  view  and 
argument  of  Raba. 

6.  Rab  Nachman  h.  Isaac  was  a  disciple  of  Rab  Nachman 
(b.  Jacob),  and  afterward  an  officer  as  Resh  Calla  in  the  acad- 
emy of  Raba.  After  the  death  of  the  latter  he  was  made 
president  of  the  academy  in  Pumbaditha,  which  now  resumed 
its  former  rank.  In  this  capacity  he  remained  only  four  years 
(352-356),  and  left  no  remarkable  traces  of  his  activity.  Still 
less  significant  was  the  activity  of  his  successor,  R.  Chama  from 
Nahardea,  who  held  the  ofhce  for  twenty-one  years   (356-377). 

7.  Rab  Papa  (bar  Chanan),  a  disciple  of  Abaye  and  Raba, 
founded  a  new  school  in  Nares,  in  the  vicinity  of  Sura,  over 
which  he  presided  for  nineteen  years  (354-375).  He  adopted 
the  dialectical  method  of  his  former  teachers  without  possess- 
ing their  ingenuity  and  their  independence,  and  consequently 
did  not  give  satisfaction  to  those  of  his  hearers  who  had  for- 
merly attended  the  lectures  of  Raba.  One  of  his  peculiarities 
was  that  he  frequently  refers  to  popular  proverbs  people  say.* 

The  Fourth  Generation  of  Babylonian  Amoraim. 

(375-427)- 


A.     Sura. 

B.  Pumbaditha. 

C.  Nahardea. 

I .  Rab  Ashe. 

I.RabZebid. 

2.  Rab  Dime. 

3.  Rafram. 

4.  Rab  Kahana. 

5.  Mar  Zutra. 

Amemar. 

To  the  fourth  generation  Strack  adds,  (i)  Jeremiah  (who 
though  a  Babylonian  native,  emigrated  to  Palestine,  and  was 
counted  among  the  Palestinian) ;  (2)  Haggi;  (3)  Juda  the  third 
(Nassi),  son  of  Gamaliel  the  fourth;  (4)  Jona;  (5)  Josa  the 
second  (colleague  of  Jona) ;  (6)  Pinchas  (who  also  emigrated 
from  Babylonia);  (7)Judan;  (8)  Chelbo;  (9)  Hisda;  (10) 
Chinna;  (11)   Tabbi;  (12)   Juda  b.   Pazi,   from  Lydda,   and 

*  This  Rab  Papa  must  not  be  mistaken  for  an  elder  teacher  by  the  same  name, 
who  had  ten  isons,  all  well  versed  in  the  law,  one  of  whom,  Rafram,  became  head  of 
the  academy  of  I'umbaditlia  in  the  following  geiierntion.  Neither  is  Rab  Papa  iden- 
tic! with  Rab  Papi,  a  distinguished  lawyer  who  flourished  in  a  former  generation. 


HISTORICAL   AND   LITERARY   INTRODUCTION.     35 

(13)  Jehoshua  of  Siknin,  Concerning  the  fourth  genera- 
tion of  Babylonian,  he  counts  also  Abbaye  and  Rabha,  and 
adds  to  the  list  of  Mielziner,  Rabba  b.  Mari,  Rabbi  b.  Ulla,  and 
Rabha  b.  Shilla.  Strack  does  not  distinguish  between  the 
colleges  of  Sura,  Piunbaditha  and  Nahardea, 

Remarks  and  Biographical  Sketches. 

A.  Rab  Ashe  (son  of  Simai  bar  Ashe)  was,  at  the  age  of 
twenty,  made  president  of  the  reopened  academy  of  Sura,  after 
the  death  of  Rab  Papa,  and  held  this  office  for  fifty-two  years. 
Under  his  presidency,  this  academy,  which  had  been  deserted 
since  the  time  of  Rabba  bar  Huna,  regained  its  former  glory 
with  which  Rab  had  invested  it.  Combining  the  profundity 
of  knowledge  which  formerly  prevailed  in  this  academy  with 
the  dialectic  methods  developed  in  that  of  Pumbaditha,  he  was 
generally  recognized  as  the  ruling  authority,  so  that  his  con- 
temporaries called  him  by  the  distinguishing  title  of  Rabhana 
(our  teacher).  Invested  with  this  great  authority,  Rab  Ashe 
was  enabled  to  assume  the  task  of  sifting,  arranging  and  com- 
piling the  immense  material  of  traditions,  commentaries  and 
discussions  on  the  Mishnn,  which,  during  the  two  preceding 
centuries,  had  accumulated  in  the  Babylonian  academies.  In 
the  compilation  and  revision  of  this  gigantic  work,  which  is 
embodied  in  the  Gemara,  he  was  occupied  for  over  half  a  cen- 
tury, and  still  he  did  not  complete  it  entirely,  but  this  was  done, 
after  his  death,  by  his  disciples  and  successors. 

B.  During  the  long  period  of  Rab  Ashe's  activity  at  the 
academy  in  Sura,  the  following  teachers  presided  successively 
over  the  academy  in  Pimibaditha : 

1.  Rab  Zebid  (b.  Oshaya),  who  succeeded  Rab  Chama  and 
held  the  office  for  eight  years  (377-385). 

2.  Rab  Dime  (b.  Chinena)  from  Nahardea,  presiding  only 
for  three  years  (385-388). 

3.  Rafram  bar  Papa  the  elder,  in  his  youth  a  disciple  of 
Raba,  succeeded  R.  Dime  (388-394). 

4.  Rab  Kahana  (b.  Tachlifa),  likewise  a  disciple  of  Raba, 
was  one  of  the  former  teachers  of  R.  Ashe.  In  an  already  ad- 
vanced age,  he  was  made  president  of  the  academy  of  Pum- 
baditha, and  died  in  the  year  411.     This  Rab  Cahana  must 


36  THE   HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

not  be  mistaken  for  two  other  teachers  of  the  same  name,  one 
of  whom  had  been  a  distinguished  disciple  of  Rab,  and  the 
other  (Rab  Cahana  b.  Manyome),  a  disciple  of  Rab  Juda  b. 
Jecheskel. 

5.  Mar  Zutra,  who,  according  to  some  historians,  succeeded 
Rab  Cahana  as  rector  of  the  school  in  Pumbaditha  (411-414), 
is  probably  identical  with  Mar  Zutra  b.  Mare,  who  shortly 
afterwards  held  the  high  office  as  Exilarch.  In  the  rectorship 
of  Pumbaditha  he  was  succeeded  by  Rab  Acha  bar  Raba  (414- 
419),  and  the  latter  by  Rab  Gebiha  (419-433). 

C.  Ameniar,  a  friend  of  Rab  Ashe,  was  a  distinguished 
judge  and  teacher  in  Nahardea.  When  his  former  teacher 
Rab  Dime  became  president  of  the  academy  in  Pumbaditha, 
he  succeeded  him  in  the  rectorship  of  that  of  Nahardea,  from 
390  to  about  422.  With  him  this  once  so  celebrated  seat  of 
learning  passed  out  of  existence. 

The  Fifth  Generation  of  Babylonian  Amoraim  (427-468). 

A.     Sura.  B.     Pumbaditha. 

1.  Mar  Jemar  (Maremar).  i.  Rafram  II. 

2.  Rab  Ide  bar  Abin.  2.  Rechumai. 

3.  Mar  bar  Rab  Ashe.  3.  Rab  Sama  b,  Rabba. 

4.  Rab  Acha  of  Difte. 

To  the  fifth  generation  of  Palestinian  Strack  adds,  (i)  Abba 
b.  Kohen;  (2)  Abba  Mare;  (3)  Mattanjah;  (4)  Mana  the 
second  b.  Jona;  (5)  Chananiah  the  second;  (6)  Jos  b.  Bune; 
(7)  Jona  of  Bozrae;  (8)  Tanhum,  and  (9)  Chiah  b,  Adda  the 
second. 

To  the  Babylonian  fifth  generation  he  counts,  (i)  Nachman 
b.  Itzhak;  (2)  Papa;  (3)  Huna  b.  Johusua. 

Remarks  and  Biographical  Sketches. 

A.  I.  Mar  Jemar  (contracted  to  Maremar),  who  enjoyed 
high  esteem  with  the  leading  teachers  of  his  time,  succeeded 
his  colleague  and  friend,  Rab  Ashe,  in  the  presidency  of  the 
academy  in  Sura,  but  held  this  office  only  for  about  five  years, 
(427-432). 

2.  Rab  Ide  (or  Ada)  bar  Abin,  became,  after  Mar  Jemar's 
death,  president  of  the  ac:idemy  at  Sura,  and  held  this  office 


HISTORICAL   AND   LITERARY   INTRODUCTION.     3* 

for  about  twenty  years  (432-452).  He  as  well  as  his  pre- 
decessor continued  the  compilation  of  the  Talmud  which  Rab 
Ashe  had  commenced. 

3.  Mar  bar  Rab  Ashe,  whose  surname  was  Tabyome,  and 
who,  for  some  imknown  reasons,  had  been  passed  over  in  the 
election  of  a  successor  to  his  father,  was  finally  made  president 
of  the  academy  in  Sura,  and  filled  this  ofhce  for  thirteen  years, 
(455-468).  In  his  frequent  discussions  with  contemporary 
authorities,  he  exhibits  independence  of  opinion  and  great 
faculties  of  mind. 

4.  Rab  Acha  of  Difte,  a  prominent  teacher,  was  on  the  point 
of  being  elected  as  head  of  the  academy  of  Sura,  but  was  finally 
defeated  by  Mar  bar  Rab  Ashe,  who  aspired  to  that  office  which 
his  father  had  so  gloriously  filled  for  more  than  half  a  century. 

B.  The  academy  of  Pumbaditha,  which  had  lost  its  earlier 
influence,  had  during  this  generation  successively  three  presi- 
dents, of  whose  activity  very  little  is  known,  namely: 

1 .  Rafram  II. ,  who  succeeded  Rab  Gebihah,  from  433  to  443. 

2.  Rab  Rechumai,  from  443-456. 

3.  Rab  Sama  b.  Rabba,  from  456-471. 

Toward  the  end  of  this  generation,  the  activity  of  both 
academies  was  almost  paralyzed  by  the  terrible  persecutions 
which  the  Persian  King  Firuz  instituted  against  the  Jews  and 
their  religion. 

The  Sixth  and  Last  Generation  of  Babylonian 
Amoraim  (468-500). 

A.     Sura.  B.     Pumbaditha. 

1.  Rabba  Thospia  (or  Tosfaah).     Rab  Jose. 

2.  Rabina. 

To  the  sixth  generation  of  Palestinian  Strack  adds,  (i) 
Samuel  b.  Jose  b.  Bune,  and  to  the  Babylonian,  (i)  Ashi;  (2) 
Rabban  bar  Thachlifa;  (3)  Mar  b.  Rabbina;  (4)  Mar  Zutra. 
Meremar  and  Tospha  he  counts  to  the  seventh  generation, 
whilst  Mielziner  counts  them  to  the  sixth.* 

*  We  refrain  from  giving  our  own  opinion  on  the  differences  between  the  genera- 
tions of  Strack  and  those  of  Mielziner ;  for  the  reason,  we  confess,  that  we  do  not 
understand  why  only  those  named  here  should  be  mentioned  among  the  different 
generations,  whilst  each  of  them  has  so  many  contemporaries  named  by  Halpern  in 
his  special  collection  of  Tanaim  and  Amoraim,  which  takes  up  a  great  part  in  Halakha 


38  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

CHAPTER  IV. 

THE   CLASSIFICATION   OF    HALAKHA   AND    HAGADA   IN   THE 
CONTENTS    OF   THE    GEMARA, 

The  collection  of  the  commentaries  and  discussions  of  the 
Amoraim  on  the  Mishna  is  termed  Gemara.  (See  our  Brief 
Introd.,  Vol,  I.,  of  our  Edition.)  Besides  being  a  discursive 
commentary  on  the  Mishna,  the  Gemara  contains  a  vast 
amount  of  more  or  less  valuable  material  which  does  not  always 
have  any  close  connection  with  the  Mishna  text,  as  legal  re- 
ports, historical  and  biographical  information,  religious  and 
ethical  maxims  and  homiletical  remarks. 

The  whole  subject-matter  embodied  in  the  Gemara  is 
generally  classified  into  Halakha  and  Hagada. 

To  Halakha  *  belongs  that  which  has  bearing  upon  the  law ; 
hence  all  expositions,  discussions  and  reports  which  have  the 
object  of  explaining,  establishing  and  determining  legal  prin- 
ciples and  provisions.  The  principal  branches  of  the  Halakha 
are  indicated  by  the  names  of  the  six  sections  of  the  Mishna, 
named  in  Chap.  IV.  of  this  work. 

The  Hagada  t  comprises  everything  not  having  the  char- 
acter of  Halakha ;  hence  all  historical  records,  all  legends  and 
parables,  all  doctrinal  and  ethical  teachings  and  all  free  and 
imrestrained  interpretations  of  Scripture. 

as  well  as  in  Hagada  in  both  Talmuds  and  Medrashim.  I.  H.  Weiss's  method  is  to  give 
the  particulars  of  those  who  have  much  contributed  to  the  development  of  the  oral 
law  ;  but  nevertheless  he  mentioned  many  of  the  great  men  without  particulars. 
Should  we  say  that  Mielziner  has  adopted  his  method  while  Strack  did  not,  it  would 
also  not  be  correct.  There  are  many  whom  Weiss  speaks  of  lengthily  whilst  Miel- 
ziner does  not  mention  them  at  all  and  vice  versa.  The  modern  scholars  like  Bacher, 
and  others,  took  the  trouble  to  write  particulars  of  each  one  mentioned  by  Strack 
although  even  they  omitted  many  who  are  mentioned  by  Halpern,  and  therefore  we 
hesitate  to  give  our  own  opinion  on  this  matter. 

*  Halakha  means  custom,  usage,  practice  ;  then,  an  adopted  rule,  a  traditional 
law.  In  a  more  extended  meaning,  the  term  applies  to  matters  bearing  upon  that 
law. 

\  Hagada  or  I/aggadam.t3in%  i\\Si\.  which  is  related,  a  tale,  a  saying,  an  individual 
utterance  which  claims  no  binding  authority.  Regarding  this  term,  see  W.  Bacher's 
learned  and  exhaustive  article,  "  The  Origin  of  the  Word  Hagada  (Agada),"  in  the 
Jewish  Quarterly  Review  (London),  Vol.  IV.,  pp.  406-429.  As  to  fuller  particulars 
concerning  Halakha  and  Hagada,  see  Zunz's  "  G.  Vortraege,"  pp.  57-61  and  83  sq.; 
also  Hamburger's  "  Real  Encyclopadie,"  II.,  the  articles  Halacha  and  Agada,  also 
atK>ve,  Vol.  I.,  Chap.  V. 


HISTORICAL  AND   LITERARY   INTRODUCTION.     39 

According  to  its  different  contents  and  character,  the 
Hagada  may  be  divided  into : 

1.  Exegetical  Hagada,  giving  plain  or  homiletical  and  alle- 
gorical explanations  of  biblical  passages. 

2.  Dogmatical  Hagada,  treating  of  God's  attributes  and 
providence,  of  creation,  of  revelation,  of  reward  and  punish- 
ment, of  future  life,  of  Messianic  time,  etc. 

3 .  Ethical  Hagada,  containing  aphorisms,  maxims,  proverbs, 
fables,  sa^'ings,  intended  to  teach  and  illustrate  certain  moral 
duties. 

4.  Historical  Hagada,  reporting  traditions  and  legends  con- 
cerning the  lives  of  biblical  and  post-biblical  persons  or  con- 
cerning national  and  general  history. 

5 .  Mystical  Hagada,  referring  to  Cabala,  angelology,  demon- 
ology,  astrology,  magical  cures,  interpretation  of  dreams,  etc. 

6.  Miscellaneous  Hagada,  containing  anecdotes,  observa- 
tions, practical  advice,  and  occasional  references  to  various 
branches  of  ancient  knowledge  and  sciences. 

Hagadic  passages  are  often,  by  the  way,  interspersed  among 
matters  of  Halakha,  as  a  kind  of  diversion  and  recreation  after 
the  mental  exertion  of  a  tiresome  investigation  or  a  minute 
discussion  on  a  dry  legal  subject.  Sometimes,  however,  the 
Hagada  appears  in  larger  groups,  outweighing  the  Halakha 
matter  with  which  it  is  loosely  connected. 

Concerning  the  Palestinian  Talmud,  its  Halakhas  and 
Hagadas,  see  Chap.  V.  of  this  volume.  However,  as  an  appendix 
we  add  that  which  was  written  by  Mielziner  about  this  matter. 

There  are  two  compilations  of  the  Gemara,  which  differ 
from  each  other  in  language  as  well  as  in  contents;  the  one 
made  in  Palestine  is  called  Jerushalmi,  the  Jerusalem  Gemara 
or  Talmud ;  the  other,  originating  in  Babylonia,  is  called  Bahli, 
the  Babylonian  Gemara  or  Talmud. 

Compilation   of  Jerushalmi,   The   Palestinian   Talmud. 

As  no  academy  existed  in  Jerusalem  after  the  destruction 
of  the  second  Temple,  the  customary  appellation  Jerusalem 
Talmud  is  rather  a  misnomer.  More  correct  is  the  appellation 
the  Palestinian  Talmud,  or  the  Gemara  of  the  teachers  of  the 
West. 


40  THE   HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

Maimonides  in  the  introduction  to  his  Mishna  commentary 
ascribes  the  authorship  of  the  Palestinian  Talmud  to  the  cele- 
brated teacher  R.  Jochanan,  who  flourished  in  the  third  cen- 
tury. This  statement,  if  literally  taken,  cannot  be  correct, 
since  so  many  of  the  teachers  quoted  in  that  Talmud  are  known 
to  have  flourished  more  than  a  hundred  years  after  R.  Jochanan. 
This  celebrated  Amora  may,  at  the  utmost,  have  given  the  first 
impulse  to  such  a  collection  of  commentaries  and  discussions  on 
the  Mishna,  which  was  continued  and  completed  by  his  suc- 
cessors in  the  academy  of  Tiberias.  In  its  present  shape  the 
work  is  supposed  to  belong  to  the  fourth  or  fifth  century.  Some 
modem  scholars  assign  its  final  compilation  even  to  a  still  later 
period ;  namely,  after  the  close  of  the  Babylonian  Talmud.* 

The  Palestinian  Gemara,  as  before  us,  extends  only  over 
thirty-nine  of  the  sixty-three  Masechtoth  contained  in  the 
Mishna,  namely  all  Masechtoth  of  Seder  Zeraim,  Seder  Moed, 
Nashim  and  Nezikin.with  the  exception  of  Eduyoth  and  Aboth. 
But  it  has  none  of  the  Masechtoth  belonging  to  Seder  Koda- 
shim,  and  of  those  belonging  to  Seder  Teharoth  it  treats  only  of 
Masecheth  Nidda.     (See  Chap.  V.,  p.  44.) 

Some  of  its  Masechtoth  are  defective;  thus  the  last  four 
Perakim  of  Sabbath  and  the  last  Perek  of  Maccoth  are  want- 
ing. Of  the  ten  Perakim  belonging  to  Masecheth  Nidda  it  has 
only  the  first  three  Perakim  and  a  few  lines  of  the  fourth. 

There  are  some  indications  that  elder  commentators  were 
acquainted  with  portions  of  the  Palestinian  Gemara  which  are 
now  missing,  and  it  is  very  probable  that  that  Gemara  origi- 
nally extended  to  all  or,  at  least,  to  most  of  the  Masechtoth  of 
the  Mishna.  The  loss  of  the  missing  Masechtoth  and  portions 
thereof  may  be  explained  partly  by  the  many  persecutions 
which  interrupted  the  activity  of  the  Palestinian  academies, 
partly  by  the  circumstance  that  the  Palestinian  Gemara  did 
not  command  that  general  attention  and  veneration  which  was 
bestowed  on  the  Babylonian  Gemara. 

*  Critical  researches  on  this  subject  are  found  in  Geiger's  "  Jued.  Zeitschrift  f. 
Wissenschaft,"  1870;  Z.  Frankel's  "  Mebo,"  p.  46  sq.,  and  in  Wiesner's  "  Gibeath 
Jeruschalaim  "  (Vienna,  1872). 

I.  H.  Weiss  ("  Dor  Dor,"  III.,  p.  114  sq.)  regards  R.  Jose  (bar  Zabda),  who  was 
a  colleague  of  R.  Jonah  and  one  of  the  last  authorities  in  Palestine,  as  the  very  com- 
piler of  the  Pal.  Talmud  which  in  the  following  generation  was  completed  by  R.  Jose 
bar  Bun  (Abun). 


HISTORICAL   AND   LITERARY   INTRODUCTION.     41 
Compilation    of    Babli,    the    Babylonian    Talmud. 

The  compilation  of  the  Babylonian  Talmud  is  generally 
ascribed  to  Rab  Ashe,  who  for  more  than  fifty  years  (375-427), 
officiated  as  head  of  the  academy  in  Sura.  It  is  stated  that  it 
took  him  about  thirty  years  to  collect,  sift  and  arrange  the  im- 
mense material  of  this  gigantic  work.  During  the  remaining 
second  half  of  his  activity  he  revised  once  more  the  whole  work 
and  made  in  it  many  corrections.* 

But  Rab  Ashe  did  not  succeed  in  finishing  the  gigantic 
work.  It  was  continued  and  completed  by  his  disciples  and 
successors,  especially  by  the  last  Amoraim,  Rabina  II.,  who 
from  488  to  499  presided  over  the  academy  in  Sura,  and  R. 
Jose,  the  school-head  of  Pumbaditha.  Some  additions  were 
made  by  the  Saboraim,  and  even  by  some  still  later  hands. 

The  Gemara  of  the  Babylonian  Talmud  covers  only  thirty- 
seven  Masechtoth  (tracts)  of  the  Mishna,  namely : 

Of  Zeraim  only  one,  Berachoth,  omitting  the  remaining 
ten  Masechtoth; 

Of  Moed  eleven,  omitting  only  Shekalim,  which  in  our 
Talmud  editions  is  replaced  by  the  Palestinian  Gemara ;  f 

Of  Nashim  all  of  the  seven  Masechtoth  belonging  to  that 
division ; 

Of  Nezikim  eight,  omitting  Eduyoth  and  Aboth ;  J 

*  See  ibid.,  Vol.  I.,  p.  21. 

Those  scholars  who  maintain  that  the  Mishna  was  not  written  down  by  R.  Jehuda 
Hanasi,  but  that  he  merely  arranged  it  orally  (see  Chap.  IV.,  p.  17),  maintain 
the  same  in  regard  to  Rab  Ashe's  compilation  of  the  Gemara,  without  being  able  to 
state  when  and  by  whom  it  was  actually  committed  to  writing.  Against  this  opinion 
it  has  been  properly  argued  that  it  must  be  regarded  as  absolutely  impossible  for  a 
work  so  voluminous,  so  variegated  in  contents  and  so  full  of  minute  and  intricate  dis- 
cussions, as  the  Talmud,  to  have  been  orally  arranged  and  fixed,  and  accurately 
transmitted  from  generation  to  generation.  On  the  strength  of  this  argument  and  of 
some  indications  found  in  the  Talmud,  Z.  Frankel  (in  his  "  Mebo,"  p.  47)  even 
regards  it  as  very  probable  that  Rab  Ashe  in  compiling  the  Gemara  made  use  of  some 
minor  compilations  which  existed  before  him,  and  of  some  written  records  and 
memoranda  containing  short  abstracts  of  the  academical  discussions  in  the  preceding 
generations.  Collecting  and  arranging  these  records,  he  partly  enlarged  them  by 
fuller  explanations,  partly  left  them  just  as  he  found  them.  Some  traces  of  such 
memoranda,  made  probably  by  R.  Ashe's  predecessors,  are  still  found  in  numerous 
passages  of  the  Talmud. 

t  In  our  new  edition  in  Vol.  VIII.,  we  supplied  a  new  brief  commentary  by 
Rodkinson. 

X  We  have  placed  Aboth  de  Rabbi  Nathan  under  the  Mishna  instead  of  the 
missing  Gemara  Jurisprudence,  Vol.  I.  (IX.). 


42  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

Of  Kodashim  nine,  omitting  Middoth  and  Kinnim.  In 
Thamid  only  chapters  I.,  II.  and  IV.  are  provided  with  Gemara, 
but  not  chapters  III.,  V.,  VI.  and  VII. 

Of  Teharoth  only  Nidda,  omitting  eleven  Masechtoth. 

There  being  no  traces  of  the  Gemara  missing  to  twenty-six 
Masechtoth,  it  is  very  probable  that  this  part  of  the  Gemara 
has  never  been  compiled,  though  those  Masechtoth  have  un- 
doubtedly also  been  discussed  by  the  Babylonian  Amoraim,  as  is 
evident  from  frequent  references  to  them  in  the  Gemara  on  the 
other  Masechtoth.  The  neglect  of  compiling  these  discussions 
may  be  explained  by  the  circumstance  that  those  Masechtoth 
mostly  treat  of  laws  which  had  no  practical  application  outside 
of  Palestine.  This  is  especially  the  case  with  the  Masechtoth 
of  Zeraim,  except  Berachoth,  and  those  of  Teharoth,  except 
Nidda.  It  was  different  with  the  Masechtoth  belonging  to 
Kodashim  which,  though  treating  of  the  sacrificial  laws,  are 
fulty  discussed  in  the  Babylonian  Talmud,  as  it  was  a  prevail- 
ing opinion  of  the  Rabbis  that  the  merit  of  being  engaged  with 
the  study  of  those  laws  was  tantamount  to  the  actual  perform- 
ance of  the  sacrificial  rites.     (See  Talm.  Menachoth,  iioa.)* 

The  absence  of  Gemara  on  the  Masechtoth  Eduyoth  and 
Aboth  is  easily  accounted  for  by  the  very  nature  of  their  con- 
tents, which  admitted  of  no  discussions. 

The  Two  Gemaras  Compared  with  Each  Other.! 

The  Palestinian  and  the  Babylonian  Gemaras  differ  from 
each  other  in  language  and  style  as  well  as  in  material,  and  in 
the  method  of  treating  the  same,  also  in  arrangement. 

*  This  reason  appears  doubtful  to  us  as,  according  to  the  sages,  the  study  of  the 
Torah,  no  matter  of  which  of  its  branches,  is  esteemed  higher  than  sacrifices  and 
they  also  were  not  very  much  in  favor  of  sacrifices  at  large,  just  as  little  as  the  old 
prophets.  Apart  from  this  we  find  there  lengthy  discussions  about  things  which 
have  never  and  could  never  have  existed.  We  therefore  think  that  the  Gemara  was 
composed  of  all  the  Mishnayoths,  and  those  which  are  missing  were  simply  lost  in 
the  course  of  time.  Secondly,  discussions  to  subjects  of  every  Mishna  are  scat- 
tered in  the  Talmud,  but  were  not  collected,  and,  indeed,  a  Rabbi  of  Ishbitza  in 
Poland,  Gershon  Henich  Lener,  took  the  trouble  to  gather  the  Gemara  belonging  to 
the  section  Purijication  and  publish  them  in  a  very  voluminous  book,  in  1836,  with 
the  approbation  of  most  of  the  Russian  and  Polish  rabbis.  (See  particulars  of  this 
in  our  Phylacterian  Retus,  p.  122.) 

f  About  this  subject  we  have  spoken  in  the  first  volume  of  this  work.  How- 
ever, we  will  not  omit  what  was  said  by  Mielziner  concerning  this  matter,  as  it  is 
very  reasonable. 


HISTORICAL   AND   LITERARY   INTRODUCTION.     43 

As  regards  the  language,  fhe  Palestinian  Gemara  is  com- 
posed in  the  West  Aramaic  dialect  which  prevailed  in  Palestine 
at  the  time  of  the  Amoraim. 

The  language  of  the  Babylonian  Gemara  is  a  peculiar  idiom, 
being  a  mixture  of  Hebrew  and  East  Aramaic,  with  an  occa- 
sional sprinkling  of  Persian  words.  Quotations  from  Mishna 
and  Boraitha,  and  sayings  of  the  elder  Amoraim  are  given  in 
the  original,  that  is,  the  New  Hebrew  (Mishnic)  language, 
while  forms  of  judicial  and  notary  documents  and  popular 
legends  of  later  origin  are  often  given  in  the  Aramaic  idiom. 

Although  the  Palestinian  Gemara  extends  to  two  more  Ma- 
sechtoth  than  the  Babylonian,  its  total  material  amounts  only 
to  about  one  third  of  the  latter.  Its  discussions  are  generally 
very  brief  and  condensed,  and  do  not  exhibit  that  dialectic 
acumen  for  which  the  Babylonian  Gemara  is  noted.  The 
Hagada  in  the  Palestinian  Gemara  includes  more  reliable  and 
valuable  historical  records  and  references,  and  is,  on  the  whole, 
more  rational  and  sober,  though  less  attractive  than  the  Baby- 
lonian Hagada,  which  generally  appeals  more  to  the  heart  and 
imagination.  But  the  latter,  on  many  occasions,  indulges  too 
much  in  gross  exaggerations,  and  its  popular  sayings,  especially 
those  evidently  interpolated  by  later  hands,  have  often  an  ad- 
mixture of  superstitious  views  borrowed  from  the  Persian  sur- 
roundings. 

The  arrangement  of  the  material  in  the  two  Talmuds  dif- 
fers in  this,  that  in  the  Babylonian,  the  Gemara  is  attached  to 
the  single  paragraphs  of  the  Mishna,  while  in  the  Palestinian 
all  paragraphs  (the  retermed  Halakhoth),  belonging  to  one 
Perek  of  the  Mishna,  are  generally  placed  together  at  the  head 
of  each  chapter.  The  comments  and  discussions  of  the  Gemara 
referring  to  the  successive  paragraphs  are  then  marked  by  the 
headings,  Halakha  i,  Halakha  2,  and  so  on. 

The  two  Gemara  collections  make  no  direct  mention  of 
each  other  as  literary  works.  But  the  names  and  opinions  of 
the  Palestinian  authorities  are  very  often  quoted  in  the  Baby- 
lonian Gemara ;  and  in  a  similar  way,  though  not  to  the  same 
extent,  the  Palestinian  Gemara  mentions  the  views  of  the 
Babylonian  authorities.  This  exchange  of  opinions  was 
effected  by  the  numerous  teachers  who  are  known  to  have  em- 
igrated or  frequently  travelled  from  the  one  country  to  the  other. 


44  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

The  study  of  the  Babylonian  Talmud,  having  been  trans- 
planted from  its  native  soil  to  North  Africa,  and  the  European 
countries  (especially  Spain,  France,  Germany  and  Poland),  was 
there  most  sedulously  and  religiously  cultivated  in  the  Jewish 
communities,  and  gave  rise  to  an  immense  Rabbinical  litera- 
ture. The  Palestinian  Talmud  never  enjoyed  such  general 
veneration  and  attention.  Eminent  Rabbis  alone  were 
thoroughly  conversant  with  its  contents,  and  referred  to  it 
in  their  writings.  It  is  only  in  modem  times  that  Jewish 
scholars  have  come  to  devote  more  attention  to  this  Talmud, 
for  the  purpose  of  historical  and  literary  investigations. 


CHAPTER  V. 

APOCRYPHAL  APPENDICES  TO  THE  TALMUD  AND  COMMENTARIES. 

Besides  the  Masechtoth  contained  in  the  Mishna  and  the 
two  Gemaras,  there  are  several  Masechtoth  composed  in  the 
form  of  the  Mishna  and  Tosephta,  that  treat  of  ethical,  ritual, 
and  liturgical  precepts.  They  stand  in  the  same  relation  to 
the  Talmud  as  the  Apocrypha  to  the  canonical  books  of  the 
Bible.  When  and  by  whom  they  were  composed  cannot  be 
ascertained.  Of  these  apocryphal  treatises,  the  following  are 
appended  to  our  editions  of  the  Talmud: 

1.  Aboih  d'  Rabbi  Nathan*  divided  into  forty-one  chapters 
and  a  kind  of  Tosephta  to  the  Mishnic  treatise  "  Pirke  Aboth," 
the  ethical  sentences  of  which  are  here  considerably  enlarged 
and  illustrated  by  numerous  narratives.  In  its  present  shape, 
it  belongs  to  the  post-Talmudic  period,  though  some  elements 
of  a  Boraitha  of  R.  Nathan  (who  was  a  Tana  belonging  to  the 
fourth  generation)  may  have  been  embodied  therein. f 

2.  Sopherim  (the  Scribes),  containing,  in  twenty-one  chap- 
ters, rules  for  the  writing  of  the  scrolls  of  the  Pentateuch,  and 

*  In  our  new  edition  it  is  translated  in  Vol.  I.  (IX.)  and  divided  into  paragraphs 
to  each  Mishna  of  Aboth. 

f  Compare  Zunz,  "  Gottesd.  Vortraege,"  p.  io8,  sq. — Solomon  Taussig  pub- 
lished in  his  "  Neve  Sholom  "  (Munich,  1872),  from  a  manuscript  of  the  Library  in 
Munich,  a  recension  of  the  Aboth  d'Rabbi  Nathan  which  differs  considerably  from 
that  printed  in  our  Talmud  editions.  The  latest  edition  of  Aboth  d.  R.  N.  in  two 
recensions  from  MSS.  with  critical  annotations  was  published  by  S.  Schcchter 
(Vienna,  1887). 


HISTORICAL  AND   LITERARY   INTRODUCTION.     45 

of  the  book  of  Esther ;  also  Masoretic  rules,  and  liturgical  rules 
for  the  service  on  Sabbath,  Feast  and  Fast  days.  R.  Asher 
already  expressed  (in  his  Hilchoth  Sepher  Thora)  the  opinion 
that  this  Masecheth  Sopherim  belongs  to  the  period  of  the 
Gaonim.* 

3.  Ehel  Rahhathi  (the  large  treatise  on  Mourning), f  eu- 
phemistically called  Seniachoth  (Joys) ,  is  divided  into  fourteen 
chapters,  and  treats,  as  indicated  by  the  title,  of  rules  and  cus- 
toms concerning  burial  and  mourning.  It  is  not  identical  with 
a  treatise  under  the  same  title,  quoted  already  in  the  Talmud 
(Moed  Katon,  24a,  26a;  Kethuboth,  28a),  but  seems  to  be 
rather  a  reproduction  of  the  same  with  later  additions. t 

4.  Callah  (the  bride,  the  woman  recently  married).  This 
minor  Masechta,  being  likewise  a  reproduction  of  a  Masechta 
by  that  name,  mentioned  already  in  the  Talmud  (Sabbath, 
114a;  Taanith,  lob;  Kiddushin,  49b;  Jer.  Berachoth,  II.,  5), 
treats  in  one  chapter  of  the  duties  of  chastity  in  marriage,  and 
in  general. 

5.  Derech  Eretz  §  (the  conduct  of  life),  divided  into  eleven 
chapters,  the  first  of  which  treats  of  prohibited  marriages,  and 
the  remaining  chapters,  of  ethical,  social  and  religious  teach- 
ings. References  to  a  treatise  by  that  name  are  made  already 
in  the  Talmud  (B.  Berachoth,  22a,  and  Jer.  Sabbath,  VI.,  2). 

6.  Derech  Eretz  Zuta  (the  conduct  of  life,  minor  treatise), 
containing  ten  chapters,  replete  with  rules  and  maxims  of 
wisdom.  II 

7.  Perek  Ha-shalom  (chapter  on  Peace)  consists,  as  already 
indicated  by  the  title,  only  of  one  chapter,  treating  of  the  im- 
portance of  peacefulness. 

Remark:  Besides  these  apocryphal  treatises  appended  to 

*  See  Zunz,  GD.  V.,  p.  95,  sq.  The  latest  separate  edition  of  Masecheth 
Sopherim  from  a  MS.  and  with  a  German  commentary  was  published  by  Joel  Mueller 
(Leipsic,  1878). 

f  Translated  by  us  in  Vol.  VIII.  with  a  brief  commentary  by  Rodkinson. 

X  See  Zunz,  G.  V.,  p.  go,  and  N.  Briill  "  Die  Talm.  Tractate  Uber  Trauer  um 
Verstorbene"  (Jahrbticher  fiir  Jud.  Geschichte  und  Literatur,  I.,  Frankfurt  a.  M.), 
p.  1-57.  M.  Klotz  published  "  Der  Talm.  Tractat  Ebel  Rabbathi  nach  Hand- 
schriften  bearbeitet,  iiberzetzt  und  mit  Anmerkungen  versehen,"  Frankf.  on  the 
Main,  1892. 

§  Also  these  three  are  translated  in  Vol.  I.  (IX.)  of  our  new  edition. 

\  On  both  of  these  Masechtoth  Derech  Eretz,  see  Zunz,  GD.  V.,  pp.  110-112. 
See  also  Abr.  Tawrog-i,  "  Der  Talm.  Tractat  Derech  Erez  Sutta  Kritisch  bearbeitet, 
Ubersetzt  und  erlautert"  (Berlin,  1885), 


46  THE    HISTORY   OF  THE   TALMUD. 

our  editions  of  the  Talmud  under  the  general  title  of  "Minor 
Treatises,"  there  are  seven  lesser  Alasechtoth  which  were  pub- 
lished by  Raphael  Kirchheim  from  an  ancient  manuscript. 
(Frankfort  on  the  Main,  1851.) 

Commentaries. 

The  Necessity  for  such  Commentaries. 

The  Talmud  offers  to  its  students  great  difficulties,  partly 
on  account  of  the  peculiar  idiom  in  which  it  is  written,  and 
which  is  intermixed  with  so  numerous,  often  very  mutilated, 
foreign  words;  partly  on  account  of  the  extreme  brevity  and 
succinctness  of  its  style,  the  frequent  use  of  technical  terms 
and  phrases,  and  mere  allusions  to  matters  discussed  elsewhere ; 
partly  also  on  account  of  the  circumstance  that,  in  consequence 
of  elliptical  expressions,  and  in  the  absence  of  all  punctuation 
marks,  question  and  answer,  in  the  most  intricate  discussions, 
are  sometimes  so  closely  interwoven  that  it  is  not  easy  to  dis- 
cern at  once  where  the  one  ends  and  the  other  begins.  To 
meet  all  these  difficulties,  which  are  often  very  perplexing, 
numerous  commentaries  have  been  written  by  distinguished 
Rabbis.  Some  of  the  commentaries  extend  to  the  whole  Tal- 
mud, or  a  great  portion  thereof;  others  exclusively  to  the 
Tvlishna,  or  some  of  its  sections. 

Up  to  date  new  commentaries  upon  commentaries  appear, 
so  that  in  the  last  edition  printed  in  Vilna,  more  than  a  hun- 
dred additional  commentaries  are  given  (an  illustration  of 
which  we  give  at  the  end  of  this  chapter).  We  therefore  do 
not  care  to  point  them  out.  Moreover  they  all  are  commen- 
taries to  the  text  which  do  not  belong  to  our  new  edition. 
However,  the  commentaries  exclusively  on  the  Mishna  we  deem 
to  be  interesting  for  some  readers  and  therefore  do  not  omit 
them. 

Commentaries  Exclusively  on  the  Mishna. 

I .  The  first  to  write  a  commentary  on  the  whole  Mishna  was 
Moses  Maimonides  (XIL  century).  He  commenced  it  in  the 
twenty-third  year  of  his  age,  in  Spain,  and  finished  it  in  his  thir- 
tieth year,  in  Egypt.  This  commentary  was  written  in  Arabic, 
manuscripts  of  which  are  to  be  found  in  the  Bodleian  Library 


HISTORICAL  AND   LITERARY   INTRODUCTION.     47 

at  Oxford,  and  in  some  other  libraries.  From  the  Arabic  it 
was  translated  into  Hebrew  by  several  scholars,  flourishing  in 
the  XIII.  century;  namely.  Seder  Zeraim,  by  Jehuda  Charizi; 
Seder  Moed,  by  Joseph  Ibn  Alfual;  Seder  Nashim,  by  Jacob 
Achsai  (or  Abbasi  *) ;  Seder  Nezikin,  by  Solomon  b.  Joseph, 
with  the  exception  of  Perek  Chelek  in  Sanhedrin  and  Masecheth 
Aboth,  including  the  ethical  treatise  Sh'mone  Perakim,  intro- 
ducing the  latter,  which  were  translated  by  Samuel  Ibn  Tib- 
bon;  Seder  Kodashim,  by  Nathanel  Ibn  Almuli;  the  trans- 
lator of  Seder  Teharoth  is  not  known.  These  translations  are 
appended  to  all  Talmud  editions,  after  each  Masechta,  under 
the  heading  of  Commentary  of  Maimonides. 

The  characteristic  feature  of  this  commentary  of  Maimon- 
ides consists  in  this,  that  it  follows  the  analytical  method,  lay- 
ing down  at  the  beginning  of  each  section  the  principles  and 
general  views  of  the  subject,  and  thereby  throwing  light  upon 
the  particulars  to  be  explained,  while  Rashi  in  his  Talmud  com- 
mentary adopted  the  synthetical  method,  commencing  with  the 
explanation  of  the  particulars,  and  thereby  leading  to  a  clear 
understanding  of  the  whole  of  the  subject-matter. 

2.  Several  distinguished  Rabbis  wrote  commentaries  on 
single  sections  of  the  Mishna,  especially  on  those  Masechtoth  to 
which  no  Babylonian  Gemara  (and  hence  no  Rashi)  exists. 
Of  these  commentaries  the  following  are  found  in  our  Talmud 
editions : 

(a)  Rashi' s  Commentary  on  all  Masechtoth  of  Seder  Zeraim, 
except  Berachoth,  and  all  Masechtoth  of  Seder  Teharoth,  ex- 
cept Nidda,  by  R.  Simson  of  Sens  (XII.  century),  the  cele- 
brated Tosaphist. 

{b)  Asheri's  Commentary  on  the  same  Masechtoth,  by  R. 
Asher  b.  Yechiel  (XIII.  century),  the  author  of  the  epitome 
of  the  Talmud  which  is  appended  to  all  Masechtoth, 

(c)  Rashi's  Commentary  on  Masecheth  Middoth,  by  R. 
Shemaya,  who  is  supposed  to  have  been  a  disciple  of  Rashi. 

(d)  Rabad's  Commentary  on  Masecheth  Eduyoth,  by  R. 
Abraham  b.  David  (XII.  century),  the  celebrated  author  of 
critical  annotations  on  Maimonides'  Talmudical  code. 

{e)  Commentary  on  the  Masechtoth  Kinnim  and  Tamid  by 
an  anonymous  author. 

*  Sec  Graetz,  "  Geschichte  d.  J.",  Vol.  VII.  p.  302. 


48  THE   HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

3.  R.  Obadya  of  Bertinoro  in  Italy,  and  Rabbi  in  Jerusalem 
(d.  in  the  year  1510),  wrote  a  very  lucid  commentary  on  the 
whole  Mishna,  which  accompanies  the  text  in  most  of  our  sep- 
arate Mishna  editions.  He  follows  the  analytic  method  of 
Rashi,  and  adds  to  each  paragraph  of  the  Mishna  the  result 
of  the  discussion  of  the  Gemara. 

4.  Additions  of  Yom  Tob.  Additional  comments  by  Yom 
Tob  Lipman  Heller,  Rabbi  of  Prague  and  Cracow  (XVII.  cen- 
tury). These  comments,  likewise  extending  to  all  parts  of 
the  Mishna,  and  accompanying  its  text  on  the  opposite  side 
of  Bartinoro's  commentary  in  most  of  our  Mishna  editions, 
contain  -^.^ery  valuable  explanations  and  critical  remarks. 

5 .  Of  shorter  commentaries  to  be  found  only  in  some  special 
editions  of  the  Mishna  text  the  following  may  be  mentioned : 

(a)  Tree  of  Life,  by  Jacob  Chagiz,  Rabbi  in  Jerusalem  (XVII. 
century),  the  author  of  a  Talmudical  terminology,  Techilath 
Chochma. 

6.  Ftdl  Spoon  of  Delight,  by  Senior  Phoebus  (XVIII.  cen- 
tury). This  commentary  is  an  abstract  of  Bertinoro's  and 
Yom  Tob  Lipman  Heller's  commentaries. 

(b)  Spoon  of  Delight,  by  Isaac  Ibn  Gabbai  in  Leghorn 
(XVII.  century),  is  generally  based  on  the  commentaries  of 
Rashi  and  Maimonides.* 

"  Tefereth  Israel "  to  all  Mishnayoth,  by  Israel  Liphschitz, 
a  very  reasonable  commentary. 


CHAPTER  VI. 

epitomes,  codifications,  manuscripts  and  printed 
editions  of  the  talmud. 

Introductory. 

Since  the  Babylonian  Talmud  was  considered  by  most  of 
the  Jewish  communities  in  all  countries  as  the  source  of  the  rab- 
binical law  by  which  to  regulate  the  religious  life,  it  is  but 
natural  that  already  at  a  comparatively  early  period  attempts 
were  made  to  furnish  abstracts  of  the  same  for  practical  pur- 

*  The  commentaries  of  the  Palestinian  Talmud  we  omit,  but  not  the  Epitomes, 
etc.,  which  seem  to  us  of  interest  for  the  reader. 


nvirqc  ?;\x  "?;;  p^t  iKa-NVj  w\  s"m  r"ir):s2.b  "^jjiSMt:;',;.-!!:  &•> 


(r'iV'M)  jnCj;  ^pj?'  o"no  nvum  E-m-n  [j'j]-  (b= 

"»'»••  ^V   ,  V'l  p'i'S'''^  ^''7^J  °"''i'=  '="'«'"n  [•';]    (y 
.  i3"c-i  i"*™*'?  mti"'  "^J";  n:cci  ^  p"'Da  ninico-' 

.  ni-jB'D  Sy  ':i.s-i"^''  n-is2n 

.  (Vi  -;i  i:;n  ' 
;ipD}'nB   p"iiH   S"i     "ISID    ri!i'Jj  D";nD  D'lf'nn  fe 
.  C'i;i  •;:o  :rn  r'l:  r'-i-j) 

V''  |"Y  pCN2D  '')bn  ^"^NltiNT  o";nD  cxmn  (ny 
.  (r:c»  TO  c'Bri;:) 

n'ra:;  -j"?  a<C\S'n  "rpJi^lS  "nnD  d'aid  n-tynn  (iy 
.  ('i;\  CUB  ^nj  lES 

2U-1D  S"i  C'^'tN'  'iX  ipj?'   c'-'^n  D'lrnn  [''3]   (ty 

s"iisi  J-'ip-i::  :ii'p  B";no  fiiyiiB-  'cc^j  n'lHjn  [";]  (n- 

CE';?  5r  r'*-'"-  ""»  I"3=''"'  =15)  .  (''='  1'"''''^  ^'"»  C'lKDJ) 
.  (Tnf'UT  C1D1  C'C3 

kSs,"  ninSDcS  ,  V't  IXX  rirjbw'  '^''^'iD  c'B'nn  [-'3]    (c 
(Tirn  )';d  -sin)  )n'Sy  my  iDonj 

.  ('»)  r~™  P'l:  n'ri-j) 
'"'  C^'a^lD  nru  jTHN  o""-^  CN-I  'J-ip  ["=]  (2s 
K'lyi-cSynnyn  'j'ju  .(cSt  rucw  r'c  n'rwj'ON'  p"i3N 
,  ('U'i:  C5-;r  pir3c»  rsin  Jr  p''3»  rru  !;:i;)  n"cj  'irr,n> 

ki'^'iD  i<phyo\:?  'r.siDi:'  c'ai  bj  rnnjn  ["5]  (js 

.  'DN-  p"niK  V'l 
>yi  min*  o"nD  <"w»  nvun  ^y  nin.in  <3^  J'tx  (ne 
.  (?■:?•  rn;i5  n'ls  n'ruj)  V'l 

'"'  "irjy'  o".»"o  t^vm  mLipVn  i^a'  [''']  ("» 

.  (D'"!d:  'p.-o  c'nrw) 
iiRn>:D  V't  j^nib  in  C'JnB  V'TlM  X'Hn  ["=]   (.IB 
.  ('131  h'i-:s)  fii  it-.m  Sr  nis;?,i  Jm)  I*' 

:>pnp,i ,  ti'"«ii-,n  ntiim  "cnn':'  msom  [''3]  ('= 

.  >(:S-iiD  V't  jlt^'XTtOS'  inTTD   c'f;.-!  )j;o 
:>''?r'a.  NS'':  Nril   r]::V   o'jno  a-is'nn  [•■3)  (ns 

.(■|CV  PTiDP  p'c  n'rw)  S"» 
j"n:n  V'l  p;n  X' N  "="■'""  "i'"  fflst:^  rnn  [■'j]  (t:e 

.  (rfii  P3^3  D'».-:)3J  awiyw 
c  1:5)  '»;•■!•  p"n3N  V'l  nnOl/  c"nD  c-rnn  [•';]    (» 
.  (5'i  t|'in  ";s  15' J5 

.  (''1:1  5^  01'  Pcnr  c'nrw)  'bitv^  p"i2K  S"t 
.ifeu  p"i:k  V'l  n'-N  p  3N?  c";-c  n'lN  p  [•':]  (^s 
n"ij  p"!;!)  V'l   ~irN,t;j21J  I.t'tN  °"-"'3  -•vitn  (;s 

.  (p;i--3  r;E5  c'nnw) 
;"i:k  b"!  "i^n  p'T"N  pTiV  o"jnB  n-cnn  [-'3]  (is 

.  (aSffl  i'>3  p'c  n',-s3)  i>i:p'o 
«:iisi;na  V't  "iSn  n^^  rTDPIJ  D";no  s-cnn  [''3]  (ns 
.{yf.n  •■•.}■:  p'e  n'--r3) 

'"'  ;nrn  "rN^sa  cj^''  ]no  nxio.  ["']  (^^ 

.  (;'-;i33  PTf")  Cnri;;)  n:V"  p"B  n"ii: 
fniTi-  ■'"l^ri  HwiO  niy'rX    o"i-.D  a'cnn  p's]   (»j 

.  pDJ'c  p"i;n  ^''tt'Sw 
iHsVii  p^'e  K''ie  n''u-'?b'  rjDV  n"3n'7  r^av  miS  [''3)  (ns 

p"K-nii,-"-niD"i.T-B'jy  minto  Hrax  rAi;n  (es 

V'jn  V't  IJinS  '?N"lOt:'  ^'ii"?  nnnu  nio  "jiS 

»"D-Sw  psn  n::'?"^'  cms  naVc*  p(i'n  [-=]  (? 

.  Kj'''ii  p"d  af'-io 

n'-c-sr  |«v"  ^j"^  ,-inN  o";nS  D07  na'  [-j]  (x? 

iv:^,iS  D";:  '^Su  .  ('i;i  r'':ft  Jip  s'n.-sj)  poS-^  p"n:K 
^"■nri  Kr.-3i:i  •irs  ,  kieo  ,  oipS- ,  d-iyna^  ,  'aha\v 
j<;i"  i-;rj'i  niNCiJ  "sAn:  o-rnni  niivn  Dy  ^  i"poBi 
'DcS  -a^-jn-^  a"ai  nnan  c-i3i)  .  •cVj'it'j  'V;3  nic'jn 
(i"";-!;-  cr:  cijfi  S"i  j'^ji;  ^i*;  c''.in'r  niiyi  ni3-i3 


i;  r^chvt"xi  rrzhn  Sw  p"''0=3y3  pn;>3  T'Jin 'oftVi" 
■C":}  t'ASS  ry"i>  >i3  mI^  P3f!l!!''E  n"rr:)S"ai  'jny  nyw' 
-30  acpjirn  ,p';npnsS  (S"ii'%-s)  to'?;^*  ri!23n   (-'' 
n''i^Ei  n;r3  'k  nnsin  -^''n  'o;  pi  »b-:3  K'S^c"rn  ncs 
..j'L'ivpin-ynitf'caS  p''i<vi7y  V'tjTiO  '"w"nn;"-]  ("''' 
n;v,  32  lEDUi  injCT  /iir"Nin  ''Vt?  'i3i  ''"jm  '''u'T'S   ("'' 
•  t:"'inn  to  n"  'jy  n"£ir  n:B'3  .ixic;  ocun  B"y 

.  is'"i*nnD  p"SnS  n"2n  rnHjii  [''=]  C^'' 

.  Po;!:p  nipiicD  Syi  3"nK  'jy ,  CH'^''  ri^n  '^"^  '"■H'"    (''' 

.D'wipiiDS  c'2r'ip]NS  '=o>  n2jn  .1312  'r=  '■■'w :  (-'' 
pii,vj"  o"ai';  N"L"inD  Sy  piMw  ,'^4ST^*^'  ^"'l^;2^  ('='' 

(Djr?  r?-):  c'BM-:)  (p-'c-nc)  V't  "IIIJTWp  'PN'e"^' 
I  (piinDDDn  tiio3  inatr  r"£ij  Sy  vpiin;.-i  -iite) 
'■733  ro  ny  10:13  n":*  nVyo  'dd"?  ri"!3DTn  p^S  ['=]   '(» 
•  'hp  ''1'  i*"  '"3  'oiPi  'PDB3  DijKSD  i:n:xi  D"^i'n  'IBD 

<"33  iNSDJts'  'Din  ip223  nijii"'  niNnm:  [''=]  («» 

.K'loyn  p"n3K  S"tT'n  »"'''iS='''P<=''ocS'nj?n  ]31p ''B  (:» 
(o'om  ND3  ncon)V't  'fC'?1TN  Tn  t^DV  D^n  '3"An''B  (ad 
1  pi'J'jp  nin3DD'7i  3''-nxS 

■nD3  inv3i  .V't  x"nr!  mrun"?  mssin  ["3]  (10 

.  p"'3  csys  ,  c'Spir  ri3oai  o'yit 
■i3t3»  niN3  isVa)  rn-iD  -no  nvjs'cS  X"niinTI3n  (no 

,  (1)103  DDi:^  japS 
'iSn  3'b  min'  B"3n'7  a'Sa  fiDoaS  nirun  Q^iirm  D\t2   (w 
.  (?:i3'  V'5f>  c'nruj)  a'ax'-oa  a''D  V't  Viy 

Mp  T'j;*  'oD  D-3P  'oes  ^''tcn  '>B3  c jpni  mn:M  ('o 

,  'aSirn'  niaSpiD  0''>pw  'oa  hv  ]'mn  J'S'^n  ■>^o  ("° 
/fi'3;5  5s  i-'i;Sr);N';pi!'n  n"a  V't  if'Tia  "^Xlu"  I2"aio 
.  N'nn  nODc'?  V't  i<"iai  ninn  ny 
min?  ^''-rfj,  «"i!"i.iD  Sy  nin^n  D"njn  ''pi,t:J  t"3]  (bd 
n"BJ  hv  'vvnn  la^o)  'j"d  p"i3i»  V't  "iiaj 
.  (ninoDen  c|id3  1N3!!' 
yti'VT'  f""  Jixo  ,  I"  '^■'■'  ni^K  Sy  y^^^'ST  J'J^  ied    (j 

.  S"t  KD'Sa  p't"K  pns'  i"h  p^X3 
Dpy  ^"n  nxD  ,  ni:ip  ninoaaS  3pj;<  ri'pnj  loa  (nj 
.  S"t  ;-ii3a-.3  in:  V3  C^pX') 


.  S"t  n\-i  >B'-icD. 'Syi  .-i;<Q ',  c-p»' 'bdS  dSs  Q^':)^^!-!' 
hH'iC^  o"a-id  n>yii  -noS  tr"-ini  o"3D-n  ''B  Sy  ninjll  (>^ 
Sy  109131  .  (I'TV  i)-:i  o'nryj)  ;it-D  'i-no  S"t  1J""i£) 
.  ]-i3na  or  miir!  <b38  ms3  jvSn 
I  nina»  rooaS  D'OOPI  ^b  [''>]    ("" 
!  nsoan  r]iD3  o"B'n  Sy  iiS'  nSm 
nssipa  nt:-!r3  xiin  ,  nS-ya  'caS  ^IfJlp  C-'ITB  [''']   (•■" 

.  ""dS  yni3  kS  bmi-b,,  otro  '"3 
D"n  C'AnS  ,  niaa-  pi3cb  Sy   Tipn  t'lIT  IIX  (" 
^'p  :d-;i)  ynt  iin  D"a-iy3  S"t  t"Nnn  p  DL3'"X'1'l3Ji 
.  (pfi'!':'ii  0151  o':3  c'^v  T"5  ii'^J  i» 
ni3S,n  xnn  ay  ,  X"D'"inrj':>  Xin3  XinnO  150    (" 
.i'S3iSp"i3i(S"t03i3i3pns''-i3  nw'Do"3ni3nna  nnJNi 

S">  bnj>'n  mj3  o"3nD  cB^nn  ,  nij::  ra:n  (n3 

.'(S'orn  5:  mi:) 
S"t  xib'D  n  n'ptn'  o'^na  o-B-nn  ,D"n  D'O   (U3 
.  (:-p  '-0  o'i33r:) 

rsos)  S"t  ^nu'jaja  D"n  c'Ai'' ,  ii^tDSm  'bb^  (o 

;  (j'p;3  oi':i  J'r33 
]V-  <n"iBD  »''33  i;n33Bi  m3  'oaS  rilJu"'  mrijn  ["']  ("d 
.  t"B-i  P13B'  nN'S'3'11  Din  ;\i:Dan  p-S;  Sy 


:  Piin  jvSj  Sy  w  D'rn  B-3!tt  ibeis  c 

:-p-!!3  nira—nobrn— -na-i  rh: 

,  o'iB'.i  'iBD  S33  noEisn  Sy  ipi'  ni-i»'  1 
c»  ..;.r;nn  Jm  5'ir  '.Ti-n  ]n:  13  n--CK  vji  f 
.(in3  n-3  o^rt^isj  •'»  fi'D  iifti  of'i-i  ^  pnipn  sniBi ; 
,;>S'cn  ,r,iin  nBO  nroca  :  ni2Cnj  rWj'^p  T 
.  (fi'nr  p;:3  n'iDcs  lOc-ji  ••33 1^;?;;)  ,  .ts" 
.  ni3B"  nii<,-iDi3  B"y-o'"^i'3  rp.Xui; 

•  =--i-i^'i=:«  ■'ba::n  nroiji  n-Uu"  r 

.■pii>iin  n:oB3  '!;;':,si"~i'n 

.  o'-iEiD  Piooa:  T  '^H^  T 

K'Tmn';  ]i;ti  n''s<-e  i!:Da  anj  'aaS  xmn 

Ninn  n:oa  n-Sy  ry\~[' 

.  Pinna  -na  nvsB'oS  ^  S''t  ]>,XJ  WM  2 

Iiftj  •n.-i  31  r»5p)  S"t  jp;;;!  -13  (pN3)  c-qj  3 

i'3iTyi  ^MBi  ^ni3-i3  pioaaS  ,  (.To?ic  iti3- 

.  (niaSm  'Siysa  nnBa  crs  fr-/,- 

5:  vpi3i)3  s'j)  S"t  bavn  12  "^xjjn  ly; 

.  o"»n  'snS  ^  (()•' 

''"'hbijmixn  mmn^DTonj  u": 

-na  SoSi  K-1P13  K331  n'3yn  'ocS  ("m  '-jn  ,-,•: 

.B'n3t  i3Sa  D-B' 

.  Piwiip  ninnDij  B"y  ^  pii:n  rooaS  v'j< 

.  a"B  ,  n"B  ,  t"6  e|^  3"a  'oaS  npy'M  Q"3C-1 

K"yT  n3E'3  l-lfB  DlB-13  pi   0D13  kSb'   .  N"Sp   S 

B'"e3  ice's  inK  '-d  Piiya3  oei3  o-oiBin  inb-  S: 

.  >i"y  c|iD  u"d  r)i3  D"3B'n  '-bS  my; 

.D'3p  'bd''  (iifmj  li;3  o'nr)  S"t  ^'\b;^  IM^mT  1 

(PuoM  Jw  rtfiw)  V't  nn  "13  cmaN  i 

.  TePll    D'3p  I 

ii  oiBB"  13)  i'»np  'odS  ,  S"t  jptn  V'l  n«i£: 

j,-3  63W  Pinipn  '3C3  '3  ,  or3'irB  '3  ,if)i;  hf>  ,e'ioo,- 
.  (pio  '"3  Jc  ixnJp  s'o  fib  n3n»i  pniip 
pii'iy  'ddS  ,  S"t  (Kt3Kro)  I'JXti'OJCDC  X 
niSj  t'Syi  .  DU'Jm3i<  pieSi  ^  b'ii33  naaa  oi 
'S"T  ijNL'o  v"D^r]  ■> 
.  naiD  'bdS  ,  S"3-  J'jX'^'a  w^'IH  mSQ 
.  fiiD3'  rooaS  D'Jti>'  ni2D 
b'b'o  BDi3r  riYBn  .  i-ts  'oaS  o'lJ^'H  Vyi 
ins  12  min'  i3'3iS  ncx?  Min  ,  '"b'iS  iman-'i  - 
,.  ina  B'swD  BBi3n  aSiN  {mhirx  ''35  -,ip)3  p3ii 
'":2  cStiTI  I'i'n'B  «SB3  nnyi  ,  nan  UOD 
1S3  10D13  12  isKSBE-  o'i3B'ni  niDOnni  p"nc 
■;"2»"n  nnOUOtfa  iNipai  '"b'i  avs  DEin  S''3r 

, ''"'  ^^iBO""  piX  '3'?D  12  pni'i  1^3-1 

.  D'yit  IID   ; 

pinBE'ED  V't  xsinn  ]'D'J3 12  r-nin'  ira- 

.  D'SpB-  'ddS  ,  (vpSa  'b:  Sw  5:  i3i)  C 

'bbS  ,  S"t  J-iUJDnO  (n"MD)  ^^X0  U'JI 

.  nlSn^ 

DK-2nBi ,  niino  noS  JllJ^JJiTia  D"in;j  'H'v 

.S"3n  '"3B''yini30BinE'  n,S-Ki  ;<y;3  'aaSiaSa 

•  ni2N  'ocS ,  S"t  xijiTja  yciir\  rty?  ij' 

'JXin  n  HTC''  "'21  rm  T".-|  mso' 

.  ru'3  'bbSi  ni3in3  'aaS  (S"t  jwxip.  .t 

Sb'  1133  in'3  Kini  ^  niB2'  'oaS  'X.^p-'J  IH  'D' 

I  I'r  fi'TPia  "n3i  5P33  3iP3  iDoo  rii-!3i  •  V't  oSli'D 

noB-S  i'2K  2inS  T2tB  S"t  'Ncpa  inS  ma:-  'rni 


(tsimn  p;'i3N  S"t  aii3(<  i"3  HuC  o"*i  'is'nn  [•■3]  (3b  |  y-^vo N"i'nn.Dn'3BS  .-iwys  k3.,i"3.v 

.  trr»>  nhp  c'nPM) 
ni'iin  'cai  o'B'ip  naS  ,  S"t  ';i'J|"l")3  jriJ  o"3n  ninjn   (jo 
.  (in3  pn  ii3c»; 

•  n^'TX  T  «T3i  roiy  'BsS  V't  x"-iin  -nxj  ["-]  (1= 
i3SD,niien'oaVS'ft)("i3nB riv^i'nn nnjn  [''']  ("e 

.  '"is  -iin  Sy  lODiJB'  nSx 
pn:-3i  anS'^'o  S"t:3i3'8"3n  ii'aSnisaa  i3piE'K(niSnK 


xin  iat3 

ipy3  jB"  <"33  n'n»  ,  i'i3  nsocS  S"t  tl'"Xin  ' 

■(i;';p''3c;i!3  i'5i>  oipn  )'r  h'-,vx])h"<  K"Tmn  Sb' 

.(iftiss  'fo  01303  C5i:5  B"D)ni'ivi  'oaS  S"t  ti'"X"i 

•  PiiiDi  Tan  o'3p  piasaS  ii'"y"i'1, 

.  ni3  nsoaS  S"t  tl-'Xin  "S&l 

,  ■>"'  'TJX'N  'r'xVi'i  '3'2iS  ns3p2  nu' 


iPrt:oin/"B'i3B'  ni'tyiSn  ni'-a  iik3  SSo  OjnnJin  [''3]  (3p    .i"n3  ksC3  xSb'  ^  B'ln  1S3  13-a  Sua  pSni  ^S"t  S"iin  '"y 

.B'''irn  D":ainS  pivjB'an  ''B31  ,  E'"Kini  'tXJJ  ■>''2  pPIV  o"i"'o',i'"'o'-'' 1Vu"D  nilX  i"  0° 

,  ciw ::  yp  ,  D"c*n  mt j:i  ,  n^23in  'pca  ^-p  •  K'^ovipa  v-t 

.B'^.Tiio-jo:  iNB  iB':nB'3  nSd  SaB"  ^-nxrtTim         j  PB3'0  d"i3>(   S"t    I'lS'^'Tl    "^XTT  o";n    ninjn  (na 
,  minn  -Sua  '"y  nt.i  B"r3  i:pn3i  viJvi         I  .  (Pi-n?  ito  o'nrp) 

m;;ipc  riS12  (a  .  Ecipaa  B'B'iiEa  i'i3i  ;3wi  nx  issBin  "pns-  n-.-    "y„    ■■:E'-a  p2  cp^v  c"33i  .  wav  naiaS  pjir'  niBBin  Sy  pnT  n-tT  ibod  niisn  (k  ;  12 
.  MEDiro  ■  rVi;CCn  •'J'l''j"(-i  . '3iy    '"aa  a":cin  raipna  m.STiSC   ^IJC"  ("i   ■  ■■i'''*i2'  o"i2  NnE:ini  S'i'  D'pnsn  ''JT'S  (3    <pii3k  poceS  o"3C1i   '"r 

c%"i>'2ty  npp'iir^i  np^no  n'^.^ir^i  nbisr  nn;n  i::  n^Dii  nb^s  b^  S^i 


pi  iCPi)a'!Cip  iiD  SaS  S"t  a"3iB'xii  'B'lini  P.inj: 
K'iBB'  'nsxn  '"ti""!  ''S  K'aa  niEipa  n;in:i  (y 
.B"B'.i  'lEB  S33  '"E'l  or  SyBEis-ji  inxnB'iEan  rv 
i't  fi'rniM .  5'3ip  o'i:ii'3  hfxx  >i:  c';.i  iriju  p'^ai 
linD  niTiCK  niKScs  pii.i3n  :  J'rii  p3:>  p'3in  3' 
.  S';!;  BiBin  imS  idS'S-  pny  i3'3t  oSi ,  iS  1MB'  *" 


HISTORICAL  AND   LITERARY   INTRODUCTION.     49 

poses.  This  was  done  partly  by  epitomes  or  compendiums 
which,  retaining  the  general  arrangement  and  divisions  of  the 
Talmud,  bring  its  matter  into  a  narrower  compass  by  omitting 
its  Hagadic  and  unnecessary  passages,  and  abridging  the  legal 
discussions;  and  partly  by  codes  in  which  the  results  of  the 
discussed  legal  matter  is  presented  in  a  more  systematic  order. 
The  first  attempts  in  this  direction  were  made  by  R.  Jehudai 
Gaon  of  Sura  (VIII.  century),  in  his  book  Halachoth  Ketuoth 
(Abridged  Halakhoth),  and  by  R.  Simon  of  Kahira  ( — IX. 
century)  in  his  Halachoth  Gedoloth.  Both  of  these  two  works, 
which  afterwards  coalesced  into  one  work,  still  extant  under 
the  latter  title,  were,  however,  eclipsed  by  later  master  works 
of  other  celebrated  Rabbinical  authorities. 

A.  Epitomes. 

The  principal  epitomes  or  compendiums  of  the  Talmud  are 
by  the  following  authors: 

1.  R.  Isaac  Aljasi  (after  the  initials,  called  "Rif,"  bom  in 
1013  near  the  city  of  Fez  in  Africa,  died  in  1103  as  Rabbi  at 
Lucena  in  Spain)  wrote  an  excellent  compendium,  which  he 
called  "Halakhoth,"  but  which  is  usually  called  by  the  name 
of  its  author,  Alpassy.  In  this  compendium  he  retains  the 
general  arrangement,  the  langtiage  and  style  of  the  Talmud, 
but  omits,  besides  the  Hagada,  all  parts  and  passages  which 
concern  laws  that  had  become  obsolete  since  the  destruction  of 
the  Temple.  Besides,  he  condensed  the  lengthy  discussions, 
and  added  his  own  decision  in  cases  not  clearly  decided  in 
the  Talmud, 

Remark. — Alfasi's  compendium  comprises  in  print  three  large  folio  volumes  in 
which  the  text  is  accompanied  by  Rashi's  Talmud  commentary,  and  besides  by 
numerous  commentaries,  annotations  and  glosses,  especially  those  by  R.  Nissim  b. 
Reuben  (J"-|) ;  by  R.  Zerachia  Halevi  (Maor) ;  by  R.  Mordecai  b.  Hillel  ;  by  R. 
Joseph  Chabiba  (Nimuke  Joseph),  and  by  some  other  distinguished  Rabbis. 

2.  R.  Asher  h.  Jechiel,  a  German  Rabbi,  later  in  Toledo, 
Spain,  where  he  died  in  1327,  wrote  a  compendium  after  the 
pattern  of  that  of  Alfasi  and  embodied  in  the  same  also  the 
opinions  of  later  authorities.  This  compendium  is  appended 
in  our  Talmud  editions  to  each  Masechta,  under  the  title  of  the 
author,  Rabbennu  Asher. 

4 


so  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE    TALMUD. 

R.  Jacob,  the  celebrated  son  of  this  author,  added  to  that 
compendium  an  abstract  of  the  decisions  contained  in  the  same, 
The  Extract  of  Asher's  Decisions. 


B.  Codes. 

1.  Misline  Torah,  "Repetition  of  the  Law,"  by  R.  !Moses 
Maimonides.  flourishing  in  the  XII.  century.  This  is  the  most 
comprehensive  and  systematically  arranged  Code  of  all  the 
Laws  scattered  through  the  two  Talmuds,  or  resulting  from 
the  discussions  in  the  samxe.  Occasionally  also  the  opinions  of 
the  post-Talmudic  authorities,  the  Gaonim,  are  added. 

This  gigantic  work,  written  throughout  in  Mishnic  Hebrew 
in  a  very  lucid  and  attractive  style,  is  divided  into  fourteen 
books;  hence  its  additional  name,  Sepher  Ha-yad  (having  the 
num.erical  value  of  14),  and  by  way  of  distinction,  it  was  later 
called  "  Yad  Hachazaka,"  The  Strong  Hand.  Every  book  is, 
according  to  the  various  subjects  treated  therein,  divided  into 
Halakhoth,  the  special  names  of  which  are  given  at  the  head  of 
each  of  those  fourteen  books.  The  Halakhoth  are  again  sub- 
divided into  chapters  (Perakim),  and  these  into  paragraphs. 

2.  Sephar  Mitzvath  Godol  (abbre\'iated  S.  M.  G.),  the  great 
Law  book,  by  the  Tosaphist  R.  Moses  of  Coucy,  in  France 
(XIII.  century).  This  work  arranges  the  Talmudical  law 
according  to  the  613  precepts  which  the  Rabbis  found  to 
be  contained  in  the  Pentateuch,  and  is  di^-ided  into  248 
positive  and  365  negative  commandments. 

Remark. — A  similar  work,  but  on  a  smaller  scale,  is  "  Sephar  Mitzvath  Gaton," 
also  called  "  Amude  Golah,"  by  R.  Isaac  b.  Joseph,  of  Corbeil  (d.  12S0). 

3.  Tiirim  (the  Rows  of  Laws),  by  R.  Jacob,  son  of  that 
celebrated  R.  Asher  b.  Jechiel  who  was  mentioned  above. 
The  work  is  divided  into  four  parts,  called :  Tur  Orach  Chayim, 
treating  of  Liturgical  Laws;  Tiir  Yore  Dea,  treating  of  the 
Ritual  Laws;  Tiir  Ehen  Ha-ezer,  on  the  Marriage  Laws,  and 
Tiir  Choshen  Mislipai,  on  the  Civil  Laws.  Each  of  these  four 
books  is  subdivided  according  to  subjects  \inder  appropriate 
headings,  and  into  chapters,  called  Simanim.  This  code  differs 
from  that  of  Maimonides  in  so  far  as  it  is  restricted  to  such  laws 
only  which  were  still  in  use  outside  of  Palestine,  and  as  it  em- 
bodies also  rules  and  customs  which  were  established  after  the 


HISTORICAL  AND   LITERARY   INTRODUCTION.     51 

close  of  the  Talmud.  Besides,  it  is  not  written  in  that  uniform 
and  pure  language,  and  in  that  lucid  style,  by  which  the  work 
of  Maimonides  is  characterized. 

4.  Shiilchan  Aruch  (The  Prepared  Table),  by  R.  Joseph 
Karo  (X\^I.  century),  the  same  author  who  wrote  the  commen- 
taries on  the  codes  of  Maimonides  and  of  R.  Jacob  b.  Asher, 
Taking  the  last -mentioned  code  (Turim)  and  his  own  commen- 
tary on  the  same  as  basis,  and  retaining  its  division  into  four 
parts  as  well  as  that  into  subjects  and  chapters,  he  subdivided 
each  chapter  (Siman),  into  paragraphs,  and  so  remodelled  its 
contents  as  to  give  it  the  proper  shape  and  style  of  a  law  book. 
This  Shulchan  Aruch,  together  with  the  numerous  annotations 
added  to  it  by  the  contemporary  R.  Moses  Isserles,  was  up  to 
our  time  regarded  by  all  rabbinical  Jews  as  the  authoritative 
code  by  which  all  questions  of  the  religious  life  were  decided. 

Constant  reference  to  the  four  Codes  mentioned  above  are 
made  in  the  marginal  glosses  which  are  found  on  every  page  of 
the  Talmud,  under  the  heading  of  ''En  ^lishpat,  Ner  Alitziuah." 
It  is  the  object  of  these  glosses  to  show,  at  every  instance  when 
a  law  is  quoted  or  discussed  in  the  Talmud,  where  the  final 
decision  of  that  law  is  to  be  found  in  the  various  codes.  The 
authorship  of  these  marginal  glosses  is  ascribed  to  R.  Joshua 
Boas  Baruch  (XVI.  century).  The  same  scholar  wrote  also 
the  glosses  headed  Torah  Or  which  are  foimd  in  the  space 
between  the  Talmud  text  and  Rashi's  commentary,  and  which 
indicate  the  books  and  chapters  of  the  biblical  passages  quoted 
in  the  Talmud,  besides  the  very  important  glosses  in  the  mar- 
gins of  the  pages,  headed  JMassoreth  Ha-shas,  which  give 
references  to  parallel  passages  in  the  Talmud.  The  last  men- 
tioned glosses  were  later  increased  with  critical  notes  by  Isaiah 
Berlin  (Pik),  Rabbi  in  Breslau  (d.  1799). 

C.  Collections  of  the  Hagadic  Portions  of  the  Talmud. 

While  the  above-mentioned  Compendiums  and  Codes  are 
restricted  to  abstracting  only  the  legal  matter  (Halakha)  of 
the  Talmud,  R.  Jacob  ibn  Chabih,  flourishing  at  the  beginning 
of  the  sixteenth  century,  collected  all  the  Hagadic  passages, 
especially  of  the  Babylonian  Talmud.  This  very  popular  col- 
lection, which  is  usually  printed  with  various  commentaries, 


52  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

1  as  the  title  of  En  Jacob ;  in  some  editions  it  is  also  called  En 
Israel. 

R.  Samuel  Jafe,  flourishing  in  the  latter  part  of  that  cen- 
tury, made  a  similar  collection  of  the  Hagadic  passages  of  the 
Palestinian  Talmud,  with  an  extensive  commentary  under  the 
title  of  Y'phe  Mareh  (Vienna,  1590,  and  Berlin,  1725-26). 
An  abridged  edition  with  a  short  commentary  was  published 
under  the  title  of  Benyan  Jerusalem  (Lemberg,  i860). 

D.  Manuscripts. 

In  consequence  of  the  terrible  persecutions  of  the  Jews 
during  the  middle  ages,  and  the  destruction  of  their  libraries, 
so  often  connected  therewith,  and  especially  in  consequence  of 
the  vandalism  repeatedly  perpetrated  by  the  Church  against 
the  Talmud,*  only  a  very  limited  number  of  manuscripts  of  the 
same  have  come  down  to  our  time.  Codices  of  single  Sedarim 
(sections)  and  Masechtoth  (tracts  or  treatises)  are  to  be  found  in 
various  libraries  of  Europe,  especially  in  the  Vatican  Library  of 
Rome,  and  in  the  libraries  of  Parma,  Leyden,  Paris,  Oxford, 
Cambridge,  Munich,  Berlin  and  Hamburg.  The  only  known 
complete  manuscript  of  the  Babylonian  Talmud,  written  in 
the  year  1369,  is  in  possession  of  the  Royal  Library  of  Mimich. 
A  fragment  of  Talmud  Pesachim,  of  the  ninth  or  tenth  century, 
is  preserved  in  the  University  Library  of  Cambridge,  and  was 
edited  with  an  autotype  facsimile,  by  W.  H.  Lowe,  Cambridge, 

1879- 

The  Columbia  College  in  the  city  of  New  York  lately  ac- 
quired a  collection  of  manuscripts  containing  the  treatises 
Pesachim,  Moed  Katon,  Megilla  and  Zebaehim  of  the  Babylonian 
Talmud.  These  manuscripts  came  from  Southern  Arabia,  and 
date  from  the  year  1548.! 

*  It  is  stated  that  at  the  notorious  auto-da-fe  of  the  Talmud,  held  in  the  year 
1249,  at  Paris,  twenty-four  cart-loads  of  Talmud  tomes  were  consigned  to  the  flames. 
Similar  destructions  of  the  Talmud  were  executed  by  the  order  of  Pope  Julius  III.,  in 
the  year  1553,  first  at  Rome,  then  at  Bologna  and  Venice,  and  in  the  following  year 
in  Ancona  and  other  cities.  Among  the  12,000  tomes  of  the  Talmud  that  were 
burned  at  Cremona,  in  the  year  1559  (see  Graetz's  "  Geschichtc  d.  Juden,"  X.,  p.  382), 
were  undoubtedly  also  numerous  manuscripts,  though  most  of  them  may  have  been 
printed  copies. 

f  See  Max  L.  Margolis's  "  The  Columbia  College  MS.  of  Meghilla  Examined," 
New  York,  1892. 


HISTORICAL  AND   LITERARY   INTRODUCTION.     53 

Manuscripts  of  the  Mishna  or  of  single  Sedarim  thereof, 
some  of  which  dating  from  the  thirteenth  century  are  preserved 
in  the  libraries  of  Parma,  of  Berlin,  of  Hamburg,  of  Oxford,  and 
of  Cambridge.  That  of  the  last-mentioned  library  was  edited 
by  W.  H.  Lowe:  "The  Mishna  on  which  the  Palestinian  Tal- 
mud Rests,"  etc.,  Cambridge,  1883. 

Of  the  Palestinian  Talmud  the  only  manuscript,  of  con- 
siderable extent,  is  preserved  in  the  Library  of  Leyden.  See 
S.  M.  Schiller-Szinessy,  "  Description  of  the  Leyden  MS.  of  the 
Palestinian  Talmud,"  Cambridge,  1878.  Fragments  of  the 
Palestinian  Talmud  are  also  to  be  foimd  in  some  other  libraries, 
especially  in  those  of  Oxford  and  Parma. 

Fuller  information  concerning  MSB.  of  the  Talmud  is  given 
in  F.  Lebrecht's  "  Llandschriften  und  erste  Ausgaben  des  Babyl. 
Talmud,"  Berlin,  1862.  See  also  M.  Steinschneider's  "He- 
braische  Bibliographic,"  Berlin,  1862  and  1863, 

E.  The  Talmud  in  Print. 

a.    The  Mishna  Editions. 

Already. as  early  as  the  year  1492,  the  first  edition  of  the 
Mishna,  together  with  the  commentary  of  Maimonides,  ap- 
peared in  Naples,  It  was  followed  by  several  editions  of  Venice 
(1546-50,  and  1606),  of  Riva  di  Trento  (1559),  and  of  Mantua 
(1559-63),  In  the  last-mentioned  editions  the  commentary 
of  Obadia  di  Bertinoro  is  added.  The  editions  which  have 
since  appeared  are  very  numerous.  Those  which  appeared 
since  the  seventeenth  century  are  generally  accompanied,  be- 
sides Bertinoro's  commentary,  by  Lipman  Heller's  or  some 
other  shorter  commentaries. 

b.     The  Babylonian  Talmud. 

The  first  complete  edition  of  the  Babylonian  Talmud  was 
published  by  Daniel  Bomberg  in  twelve  folio  volumes,  Venice, 
1520-23.  Besides  the  text,  it  contains  the  commentary  of 
Rashi,  the  Tosephoth,  the  Piske-Tosephoth,  the  compendium 
of  Asheri,  and  the  Mishna  commentary  of  Maimonides.  This 
original  edition  served  as  model  for  all  editions  which  subse- 


54  THE   HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

quently  appeared  at  Venice,  Basel,  Cracow,  Lublin,  Amster- 
dam, Frankfort-on-the-Oder,  Berlin,  Frankfort-on-the-Main, 
Sulzbach,  Dyhemfurt,  Prague,  Warsaw,  Lemberg,  and  re- 
cently at  Vienna  and  Wilna.  The  later  editions  were  greatly 
improved  by  the  addition  of  valuable  literary  and  critical 
marginal  notes  and  appendices  by  learned  rabbis.  But  the 
Basel  and  most  of  the  subsequent  editions,  down  almost  to  the 
present  time,  have  been  much  mutilated  by  the  official  censors 
of  the  press,  who  expunged  from  the  Talmud  all  those  passages 
which,  in  their  opinion,  seemed  to  reflect  upon  Christianity, 
and,  besides,  changed  expressions,  especially  names  of  nations 
and  of  sects,  which  they  suspected  as  having  reference  to 
Christians. 

The  Amsterdam  editions,  especially  the  first  (1644-48),  es- 
caped those  mutilations  at  the  hand  of  the  censors,  and  are  on 
this  account  considered  very  valuable.  Most  of  the  passages 
which  have  elsewhere  been  eliminated  or  altered  by  the  cen- 
sors have  been  extracted  from  the  Amsterdam  edition,  and 
published  in  separate  small  books.  Of  these  the  following 
two  may  be  mentioned:  "Collected  Omissions"  and  "The 
Omissions,"  Koenigsberg,  i860.* 

A  critical  review  of  the  complete  editions  of  the  Babylonian 
Talmud  and  of  the  very  numerous  editions  of  single  IMasech- 
toth  since  the  year  1484,  was  published  by  Raphael  Rabbino- 
vicz,  in  his  Hebrew  pamphlet,  Munich,  1877. f 

The  same  author  also  collected  and  published  very  rich  and 
important  material  for  a  critical  edition  of  the  Babylonian 
Talmud  from  the  above-mentioned  manuscript  in  the  Royal 
Library  of  Munich  and  other  manuscripts,  as  well  as  from  early 
prints  of  single  Masechtoth  in  various  libraries.  The  title  of 
this  very  extensive  work,  written  in  Hebrew,  is  Dikduke  So- 
pherim,  with  the  Latin  title :  Variae  lectiones  in  Mishnam  et  in 
Talmud  Babylonicum,  etc.,  Munich  1868-86.  The  fifteen  vol- 
umes in  octavo  which  have  appeared  of  this  valuable  work 
comprise  only  three  and  a  half  Sedarim  of  the  six  Sedarim  of 

*  In  our  "  Schulchan  Aruch  und  Seine  Beziehungen,  etc.,"  mentioned  in  our 
appendix  about  the  MUnster  process,  we  give  a  clear  explanation  about  all  the  cor- 
rections by  the  censor  which  does  not  fully  agree  with  this  remark.  Concerning 
these  omissions,  see  our  "  Concluding  Words  "  to  Vols.  XVII.  and  XVIII. 

+  This  instructive  pamphlet  is  aNo  reprinted  as  an  appendix  to  Vol.  VIII.  of 
Dikduke  Sopherim. 


HISTORICAL  AND   LITERARY   INTRODUCTION.      55 

the  Talmud.  It  is  to  be  regretted  that  in  consequence  of  the 
death  of  the  learned  author  the  completion  of  this  important 
work  has  been  suspended. 

c.    The  Palestinian  Talmud. 

Of  the  Palestinian  Talmud  (Jerushalmi)  only  four  complete 
editions  appeared : 

1.  The  first  edition,  published  by  Daniel  Bomberg,  Venice, 
1523-24,  in  one  folio  volume,  without  any  commentary. 

2.  The  Cracow  edition,  1609,  with  a  short  commentary  on 
the  margin. 

3.  The  Krotoshin  edition,  1866,  with  a  commentary  like 
that  in  the  Cracow  edition,  but  added  to  it  are  marginal  notes, 
containing  references  to  parallel  passages  in  the  Babylonian 
Talmud,  and  corrections  of  text  readings. 

4.  The  Shitomir  edition,  1860-67,  in  several  folio  volumes, 
with  various  commentaries. 

Besides  these  four  complete  editions,  several  parts  have 
been  published  with  commentaries. 


CHAPTER  VII. 

TRANSLATIONS    OF   THE   TALMUD 

A.    The   Mishna. 
English  Translations. 

W.  Walton.  Translation  of  the  treatises  Sabbath  and 
Erubin,  London,  17 18. 

D.  A.  de  Sola  and  M.  I.  Raphall.  Eighteen  treatises  from 
the  Mishna  translated.     London,  1843. 

Joseph  Barclay  pubHshed  under  the  title  "The  Talmud"  a 
translation  of  eighteen  treatises  of  the  Mishna  with  annota- 
tions.    London,  1878. 

C.  Taylor.  Sayings  of  the  Jewish  Fathers  (the  treatise 
Aboth).     Cambridge,  1877. 

Remark. — The  treatise  "Aboth"  has  been  translated  into  almost  all  of  the 
European  languages. 


56  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 


B.    The  Babylonian   Talmud. 

To  translate  the  Mishna  is  a  comparatively  easy  task.  Its 
generally  plain  and  uniform  language  and  style  of  expression, 
and  its  compendious  character  could  easily  enough  be  rendered 
into  another  language,  especially  when  accompanied  by  some 
explanatory  notes.  But  it  is  quite  different  with  the  Gemara, 
especially  the  Babylonian.  There  are,  of  course,  also  passages 
in  the  Gemara  which  offer  no  great  difficulties  to  a  translator 
who  is  sufficiently  familiar  with  the  idiom  in  which  the  original  is 
composed.  We  refer  to  the  historical,  legendary  and  homiletical 
portions  (Hagadas)  which  the  compilers  have  interspersed  in 
every  treatise.  The  main  part  of  the  Gemara,  however,  which 
is  essentially  of  an  argumentative  character,  giving  minute 
reports  of  discussions  and  debates  on  the  law,  this  part,  so  rich 
in  dialectical  subtilities,  and  so  full  of  technicalities  and  ellip- 
tical expressions,  offers  to  the  translator  almost  insurmoimta- 
ble  difficulties. 

English  Translations. 

A.  W.  Streane.  Translation  of  the  treatise  Chagiga.  Cam- 
bridge, 1 89 1. 

Michael  L.  Rodkinson  :  Babylonian  Talmud — Section  Moed 
(Festivals).  Complete,  consisting  of  the  following  volumes: 
Vol.  L,*  Tract  Sabbath  (first  ten  chapters);  Vol.  II.,  Tract 
Sabbath  (continued),  fourteen  chapters;  Vol.  III.,  Tract  Eru- 
bin  (Mingling);  Vol.  IV.,  Tracts  Skekalim  (Duties),  and  Rosh 
Hashana  (Hebrew  Calendar);  Vol.  V.,  Tract  Pesachim  (Pass- 
over); Vol.  VI.,  Tracts  Yomah  (Day  of  Atonement),  and 
Hagiga  (Holocaust) ;  Vol.  VII.,  Tracts  Betzah  (Feast),  Succah 
(Tabernacles),  and  Moed  Katan  (Minor  Festivals) ;  Vol.  VIII., 
Tracts  Taanith  (Fasts),  Megilla  (Book  of  Esther),  and  Ebel 
Rabbathi  (Great  Mourning). 

Section  Jurisprudence:  Vol.  I.,  Ethics  of  Judaism,  (Tracts 
Aboth,  Aboth  of  R.  Nathan,  Derech  Eretz,  Rabba  and  Zutta) ; 
Vol.  II.,  Bab  Kama  (First  Gate,  eight  chapters) ;  Vol.  III., 
Baba  Metziah  (Middle  Gate),  five  chapters,  and  the  last  two  of 

*  Of  Vol,  L  and  IV.  a  second  revised  and  enlarged  edition  was  published. 


HISTORICAL   AND    LITERARY   INTRODUCTION.      57 

Baba  Kama;  Vol.  IV.,  the  last  five  chapters  of  Baba  Metziah; 
Vol.  V.-VI.,  Baba  Bathra  (Last  Gate,  five  chapters  in  each); 
Vol.  VII.-VIII.,  Sanhedrin;  Vol.  IX.,  Maccath,  Shebuoth,  and 
Eduyoth;  Vol.  X,,  Abuda  Zara  and  Horioth,  New  York,  1896- 
1903.* 

C.    The   Palestinian   Talmud. 

a.    Latin  Translation. 

Blasius  Ugolinus,  published  in  volumes  XVII. -XXX.  of  his 

Thesaurus  antiquitatum  sacrarum  (Venice,  1755-65),  the  fol- 
lowing treatises  in  Latin:  Pesachim  (vol.  XVIL);  Shekalim, 
Yoma,  Succah,  Rosh  Hashanah,  Taanith,  Megilla,  Chagiga, 
Betza,  Moed  Katan  (vol.  XVIII.) ;  Maaseroth,  Maaser  Sheni, 
Challah,  Orlah,  Biccurim  (vol.  XX.) ;  Sanhedrin,  Maccoth 
(vol.  XXV.) ;  Kiddushin,  Sota,  Kethuboth  (vol.  XXX.). 

b.    German  Translations. 

J  oh.  Jacob  Rabe,  besides  translating  Berachoth  in  connec- 
tion with  that  treatise  in  the  Babylonian  Gemara,  as  men- 
tioned above,  published:  Der  Talmudische  Tractat  Peak, 
iibersetzt  imd  erlautert.     Anspach,  1781. 

August  Wunsche.  Der  Jerusalemische  Talmud  in  seinen 
haggadischen  Bestandtheilen  zum  ersten  Male  in's  Deutsche 
iibertragen.     Zurich,  1880. 

c.    French   Translation. 

Moise  Schwab.  Le  Talmud  de  Jei-usalem  traduit  pour  la 
premiere  fois.     X.  volumes.     Paris,  1871-90. 

D.    Gemara. 

M.  Schwab,  the  author  of  the  French  translation  published 
in  English:  The  Talmud  of  Jerusalem.  Vol.  I.  Berachoth. 
London,  1886. 

*  See  "  Kritische  Geschichte  der  Talmud  tJbersetzung"  by  Bischof,  p.  62. 
In  this  book  all  the  translations  from  both  Talmuds  in  all  languages  and  all  tracts 
or  parts  of  them,  with  criticisms,  are  mentioned.  The  English  translations  are  given 
here  for  the  English  reader. 


58  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

CHAPTER  VIII. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY    OF    MODERN     WORKS    AND    MONOGRAPHS    ON 

TALMUDIC     SUBJECTS. 

(Arranged  with  reference  to  subjects  and  in  alphabetical  order 

of  authors). 

Hagada. 

W.  BacJier.  Die  Agada  dcr  Tannaiten.  Strasburg,  Als. 
1884;  Die  A.gada  der  Bab3donischen  Amoraer.  Strasburg, 
Als.,  1878;  Die  Agada  der  Paldstinischen  Amoraer.  Strasburg, 
Als.,  1891 ;  Agada  der  Palastinischen  Amoraer,  published  1896, 
Vol.  II.,  Die  vSchueler  Jochanan's,  and  1899  Vol.  III.,  Die  letz- 
ten  Amoraer  des  heiligen  Landes. 

5.  Back.  Die  Fabel  im  Talmud  u.  Midrasch  (in  Monats- 
schrift  f.  Geschichte  u.  Wissenschaft  d.  Judenthums,  XXIV., 
1875;  XXV.,  1876;  XXIX.,  1880;  XXX.,  1881;  XXXII., 
1883;  XXXIII.,  1884). 

M.  Griinbaum.  Beitrage  zur  vergleichenden  Mythologie 
aus  der  Haggada  (in  Zeitschrift  d.  D.  Morgenl.  Gesellschaft, 
vol.  XXXI.,  1877). 

M.  Giideniaun.  Mythenmischung  in  der  Haggada  (in 
JMonatsschrift  f.  Geschichte  u.  Wissenschaft  d.  Judenthums, 
vol.  XXV.,  1876). 

D.  Hoffmann.  Die  Antonius  Agadoth  im  Talmud  (in 
Magazin  fur  Wissenschaft  des  Judenthums,  vol.  XIX.,  1892). 

Archaeological. 

Ad.  Br  all.  Trachten  der  Juden  im  nachbiblischen  Alter- 
thum.     Frankf.  on  the  M.,  1873. 

Franz  Delitzsch.  Jiidisches  Handwerkerleben  zur  Zeit 
Jesu,  Elangen,  1879.  Translated  by  B.  Pick,  "Jewish  Artisan 
Life."     New  York,  1883. 

M.  H.  Friedldnder.  Die  Arbeit  nach  Bibel  u.  Talmud. 
Brunn,  189 1. 

L.  Her  ',jld.  Metrologische  Voruntersuchungen,  Geld  und 
Gewicht  der  Juden  bis  zum  Schluss  des  Talmuds  (in  Jahrbuch 


HISTORICAL  AND   LITERARY   INTRODUCTION.      59 

fiir  Geschichte  der  Juden  u.  des  Judenthums,  vol.  III.,  pp. 
95-191,  Leipsic,  1863). 

Alex.  Kohv.t.  1st  das  Schachspiel  im  Talmud  genannt? 
(Z.  d.  D.  M.  G.,  XLVL,  130-39). 

Leopold  Low.  Graphische  Requisiten  und  Erzeugnisse  bei 
den  Juden,  Leipsic,  1870-71;  Die  Lebensalter  in  der  jiid. 
Literatur.     Szegedin,  1875. 

H.  Vogelstein.  Die  Landwirthschaft  in  Palestina  zur  Zeit 
der  Mischna.     Berlin,  1894. 

B.  Ziickcrman.  Ueber  Talmudische  Munzen  u.  Gewichte. 
Breslau,  1862;  Das  jiidische  Maassystem.  Breslau,  1867; 
Technologie  u.  Terminologie  der  Handverke  in  der  P.  Rieger 
Mischnah.     Berlin,  1895, 

Biographical, 

Sam.  Back.  Elischa  ben  Abuja,  quellenmassig  dargestellt. 
Frankf.  on  the  M.,  189 1. 

A .  Blumenthal.  Rabbi  Meir,  sein  Leben  u.  Wirken.  Frankf., 
1889. 

M.  Braunschweiger.  Die  Lehrer  der  Mischna,  ihr  Leben  u. 
Wirken.     Frankf.  on  the  M.,  1890. 

S.Fessler.   Mar  Samuel,  der  bedeutendsteAmora.    Breslau, 

1879-     ^       . 

M.  Priedldnder.     Geschichtsbilder  aus  der  Zeit  der  Tanai- 

ten  u.  Amoraer.     Brunn,  1879. 

5.  Gelbhaiis.  R.  Jehuda  Hanasi  und  die  Redaction  der 
Mischna.     Vienna,  1876.  . 

D.  Hoffmann.  Mar  Samuel,  Rector  der  Academic  zu  Na- 
hardea.     Leipsic,  1873. 

M.  D.  Hoffmann.  Biographic  des  Elischa  ben  Abuya. 
Vienna,  1870. 

Armand  Kaminka.  Simon  b.  Jochai  (chapter  in  the 
author's  Studien  zur  Geschichte  Galilaeas.     Berlin,  1890). 

Raphael  L^vy.  Un  Tanah  (Rabbi  Meir),  ^tude  sur  la  vie 
et  I'enseignement  d'un  docteur  Juif  du  II.  siecle.     Paris,  1883. 

L.  Lewin.     R.  Simon  b.  Jochai.     Frankf.  on  M.,  1893. 

M.  L  Miihlf elder.  Rabh.  Ein  Lebensbild  zur  Geschichte 
des  Talmud.     Leipsic,  1873. 

J.  Spitz.  Rabban  Jochanan  b.  Sakkai,  Rector  der  Hoch- 
schule  zu  Jabneh.     Berlin,  1883. 


6o  THE   HISTORY   OF  THE   TALMUD. 

7.  Trenel.     Vie  de  Hillel  1' Ancient.     Paris,  1867. 

H.  Zirndorf.  Some  Women  in  Israel  (pp.  119-270,  por- 
traying distinguished  women  of  the  Talmudic  age).  Phila- 
delphia, 1892. 

F.  K aider.  Beitraege  zur  Kenntniss  des  Rechtsystems 
und  der  Ethik  Mar  Sam.uels.     Bern,  1895. 

A.  Kisch.  Hillel  der  Alte,  Lebensbild  eines  jued.  Weisen. 
Prag.,  1889. 

Chronology  and  Calendar. 

L.  M.  Lewisohn.  Geschichte  u.  System  des  judischen 
Kalenderwesens.     Leipsic,  1856. 

B.  Ziickermann.  Materialien  zur  Entwickelting  der  altjii- 
dischen  Zeitrechnung.     Breslau  1882. 

Customs. 

I.  M.  Cassanowicz.  Non-Jewish  religious  ceremonies  in 
the  Talmud  (in  Proceedings  of  the  American  Oriental  Society). 
New  York,  1894. 

Joseph  Perles.  Die  jiidische  Hochzeit  in  nachbiblischer 
Zeit.  Leipsic,  i860.  Die  Leichenfeierlichkeiten  im  nachbi- 
blischen  Judenthum.     Breslau,  1861. 

Remark. — An  English  translation  of  both  of  these  two  monographs  is  embodied 
in  "  Hebrew  Characteristics,"  published  by  the  American  Jewish  Publication  Society. 
New  York,  1875. 

M.  Fluegel.  Gedanken  uber  religiose  Brauche  und  An- 
schauungen.     Cincinnati,  il 


Dialectics. 

Aaron  Halm.  The  Rabbinical  Dialectics.  A  History  of 
Dialecticians  and  Dialectics  of  the  Mishna  and  Talmud.  Cin- 
cinnati, 1879. 

Education. 

Blach-Gudensberg.  Das  Paedagogische  im  Talmud.  Hal- 
berstadt,  1880. 

M.  Duschak.  Schulgesetzgebimg  u.  Methodik  der  alten 
Israeliten.     Vienna,  1872. 


HISTORICAL  AND   LITERARY  INTRODUCTION.      6i 

Sam.  Marcus.  Zur  Schul-Paedagogik  des  Talmud.  Ber- 
lin, 1866. 

Joseph  Simon.  L'^ducation  et  rinstruction  d'apr^s  la 
Bible  et  le  Talmud.     Leipsic,  1879. 

E.  Van  Gelden.  Die  Volkescliule  des  juedischen  Alter- 
thums  nach  Talmudischen  Quellen.     Berlin,  1872. 

■   jf.  Wiesen.     Geschichte  und  Method  ik  der  Schulwesens  im 
talmudischen  Alterthum.     Strasburg,  1892. 

J.  Lewit.  Darstellung  der  theoretischen  und  practischen 
Paedagogik  im  juedischen  Alterthum.     Berlin,  1896. 

Ethics. 

M.  Block.     Die  Ethik  der  Halacha.     Budapest,  1886. 

Herman  Cohen.  Die  Nachstenliebe  im  Talmud.  Ein 
Gutachten.     Marburg,  1886. 

M.  Duschak.  Die  Moral  der  Evangelien  u.  des  Talmuds. 
Briinn,  1877. 

H.  B.  Fassel.  Tugend-  und  Rechtslehre  des  Talmud. 
Vienna,  1848. 

M.  Lazarus.  Die  Ethik  des  Judenthums.  Frankfort  a.  M., 
1898.  Translated  into  English.  (The  Ethics  of  Judaism), 
by  Henriette  Szold,  Vol.  I.     Philadelphia,  1900-01. 

E.  Grunebaum.  Die  Sittenlehre  des  Judenthums  andem 
Bekentnissen  gegeniiber.     Strasburg,  1878. 

M.  Giidemann.     Nachstenliebe.     Vienna,  1890. 

Alex.  Kohut.  The  Ethics  of  the  Fathers.  A  series  of  lec- 
tures.    New  York,  1885. 

L.  Lazarus.      Zur  Charakteristik  der  talmudischen  Ethik. 
Breslau,  1877. 

Marc.  Levy.     Essai  sur  la  morale  de  Talmud.     Paris,  1891. 

Luzzatto.  Israelitische  Moraltheologie,  deutsch  von  M. 
Joel.     Breslau,  1870. 

5.  Schaffer.  Das  Recht  und  seine  Stellung  zur  Moral  nach 
talmudischer  Sitten-  iind  Rechtslehre.  Frankf.  on  the  M., 
1889. 

N.  J.  Weinstein,  Geschichtliche  Entwickelung  des  Gebotes 
der  Nachstenliebe  innerhalb  des  Judenthums,  kritisch  be- 
leuchtet.     Berlin,  1891. 

M.  L.  Rodkinson.     Ahbalh  Adam  ah  pe  Torah  She  Bal 


62  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

peh.  In  Hebrew — a  booklet  in  the  periodical  Hakol,  Vol.  VI. 
Vienna,  1885.  Translated  into  German  as  "  Nachstenliebe 
nach  den  Talmud"  in  manuscript. 

Exegesis. 

W.  Backer.  Exegesis  and  Bible  Criticism.  Ein  Woerter- 
buch  der  bibelexegetischen  Kunstsprache  der  Tannaiten. 
Leipsic,  1899. 

M.  Eisenstadt.  Ueber  Bibelkritik  in  der  talmud.  Literatur. 
Berlin,  1894. 

H.  S.  Hirschfeld.  Halachische  Exegese,  Berlin,  1840; 
Die  Hagadische  Excgese.     Berlin,  1847. 

5,  Waldberg.  Darke  Hashinnuyim,  on  the  methods  of  artifi' 
cial  interpretation  of  Scriptures  in  the  Talmud  and  Midrash 
(in  Hebrew).     Lemberg,  1870. 

Geography  and  History. 

A.  Berliner.  Beitrage  zur  Geographic  u.  Ethnographic 
Babyloniens  im  Talmud  u.  Midrasch.     Berlin,  1883. 

J.  Derenbourg.  Essai  sur  I'histoire  et  la  geographie  de  la 
Palestine  d'apr^s  les  Talmuds  et  les  autres  sources  rabbiniques. 
Paris,  1867. 

H.  Hildesheimer.  Beitrage  zur  Geographie  Palastinas. 
Berlin,  1886. 

Arniand  Kaminka.  Studien  zur  Geschichte  Galilaeas. 
Berlin,  1890. 

Ad.  Neuhaner.  La  geographic  du  Talmud.  Memoire  cou- 
ronne  par  I'academie  des  inscriptions  et  belles-lettres.     Paris, 


Law. 

a.  hi  General, 

Jacques  Levy.  La  jurisprudence  du  Pentateuque  et  du 
Talmud.     Constantine,  1879. 

5.  Mayer.  Die  Rechte  der  Israeliten,  Athener  und  Romer. 
Leipsic,  1862-66. 

M.  Mielziner.  Legal  Maxims  and  Fundamental  Laws  of 
the  Civil  and  Criminal  Code  of  the  Talmud.     Cincinnati,  1898. 


HISTORICAL  AND   LITERARY  INTRODUCTION.      63 

M.  W.  Rapaport.  Der  Talmud  und  sein  Recht  (in  Zeit- 
schrift  fuer  Vergleichende  Rechtswissenschaft,  XIV.  Band. 
Stuttgart,  1900). 

/.  L.  Saalschiitz.  Das  Mosaische  Recht,  nebst  den  vervoU- 
standigenden  thalmudisch-rabbinischen  Bestimmungen.  2d 
Edition.     Berlin,  1853. 

5.  S chaffer.  Das  Recht  u.  seine  Stellung  zur  Moral  nach 
talmudischer  Sitten-  und  Rechtslehre.   Frankf .  on  the  M.,  1889. 

/.  M.  Wise.  The  Law  (in  the  Hebrew  Review,  Vol.  I.,  pp. 
12-32.     Cincinnati,  1880). 

h.  Judicial  Courts. 

Adolph  Buechler.  Das  Synhedrion  in  Jerusalem.  Vienna, 
1902. 

E.  Hoffmann.  Der  oberste  Gerichtshof  in  der  Stadt  des 
Heiligthums.     Berlin,  1878. 

J.  Klein.  Das  Gesetz  ueber  das  gerichtlische  Beweisver- 
fahren  nach  mosaisch-talmudischen  Rechte.     Halle,  1885. 

y.  Selden.  De  Synedriis  et  praefecturis  juridicis  veterum 
Ebraeorum.     London,   1650;   Amsterd.,   1679;  Frankf.,   1696. 

c.  Evidence  in  Law. 

I.  Blunienstein.  Die  verschiedenen  Eidesarten  nach  mosa- 
isch-talmudischem  Rechte.     Frankf.  on  the  M.,  1883. 

Z.  Frankel.  Der  Gerichtliche  Beweis  nach  mosaisch-tahnu- 
dischem  Rechte.     Berlin,  1846. 

D.  Fink.  "  Miggo  "  als  Rechtsbeweis  im  bab.  Talm.  Leip- 
sic,  1 89 1. 

d.  Criminal  Law. 

0.  Bahr.  Das  Gesetz  uber  falsche  Zeugen,  nachBibelu. 
Talmud.     Berlin,  1862. 

P.  B.  Benny.  The  Criminal  Code  of  the  Jews.  London, 
1880. 

M,  Duschak.  Das  mosaisch-talmudische  Strafrecht.  Vi- 
enna, i86g. 

J.  Fiirst.  Das  peinliche  Rechtsverfahren  im  jud.  Alter- 
thum,     Heidelberg,  1870. 


64  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

E.  Goitein.  Das  Vergeltungsprinzip  im  bibl.  u.  talmudi- 
schen  Strafrecht  (in  Zeitschrift  fiir  Wissenschaft  d.  J.  Vol. 
XIX. 

S.  Mendelsohn.  The  Criminal  Jurisprudence  of  the  ancient 
Hebrews  compiled  from  the  Talmud  and  other  rabbinical  writ- 
ings.    Baltimore,  1891. 

Thonisson.  La  peine  de  mort  dans  le  Talmud.  Brussels, 
1886. 

Julius  Vargha.  Defence  in  criminal  cases  with  the  ancient 
Hebrews,  translated  from  the  first  chapter  of  the  author's  large 
work  "  Vertheidigung  in  Criminalf alien,"  and  published  in  the 
Hebrew  Review,  Vol.  I.,  pp.  254-268.     Cincinnati,  1880. 

I.  Wiesner.  Der  Bann  in  seiner  geschichtlichen  Entwicke- 
lung  auf  dem  Boden  des  Judenthums.     Leipsic,  1864. 

e.  Civil  Law. 

L.Auerhach.     Das  jiidische  Obligationsrecht.    Berlin,  1871. 

M.  Block.  Die  Civilprocess-Ordnung  nach  mosaisch-rab- 
binischem  Rechte.     Budapest,  1882. 

H.  B.  Fassel.  Das  mosaisch-rabbinische  Civilrecht.  Gr. 
Kanischa,  1852-54;  Das  mosaisch-rabbinische  Gerichtsver- 
fahren  in  civilrechtlischen  Sachen.     Gr.  Kanischa,  1859. 

5.  Keyzer.  Dissertatio  de  tutela  secimdum  jus  Talmudi- 
cum.     Leyden,  1847. 

/.  Inheritance  and  Testament. 

M.  Bloch.  Der  Vertrag  nach  mosaisch-talmud.  Rechte. 
Budapest,  1892;  Das  mosaisch-talmud.  Erebrecht.  Buda- 
pest, 1890; 

L.  Bodenheimer.     Das  Testament.     Crefeld,  1847. 

Eduard  Cans.  Grundziige  des  mosaisch-talmudischen  Er- 
brechts  (in  Zunz's  Zeitschrift  fiir  die  Wissenschaft  des  Juden- 
thums, p.  419  sq.). 

M.  Mielziner.  The  Rabbinical  Law  of  Hereditary  Succes- 
sion.    Cincinnati,  1900. 

Moses  Mendelssohn.  Ritualgesetze  der  Juden,  betreffend 
Erbschaften  Vormundschaft,  Testamente,  etc.  Berlin,  1778, 
and  several  later  editions. 


HISTORICAL  AND   LITERARY   INTRODUCTION.     65 

M.  W.  Rapaport.  Grundsaetze  des  (talmudischen)  In- 
testaterbrechts  tind  Schenkungen  (in  Zeitschrift  fuer  Ver- 
gleichende  Rechts  Wissenschaft,  XIV.  Band,    Stuttgart,  1900. 

J  oh.  Selden.  De  Successionibus  in  bona  defuncti  ad  leges 
Hebraeorum.     London,  1646;  Frankf.,  1696. 

A.  Wolff.     Das  Juedische  Erbrecht.     Berlin,  1888. 


g.  Police  Law. 

M.  Block.  Das  mosaisch-talmudische  Polizeirecht.  Buda- 
pest, 1878.  Translated  into  English  by  I.  W,  Lilienthal  in  the 
Hebrew  Review,  Vol.  I.    Cincinnati,  1881. 

h.  Law  of  Marriage  and  Divorce. 

P.  Buchholz.  Die  Familie  nach  mos.-talmud.  Lehre. 
Breslau,  1867. 

M.  Duschak.  Das  mosaisch-talmudische  Eherecht.  Vienna, 
1864. 

Z.  Frankel.  Gnmdlinien  des  mosaisch-talmud.   Eherechts. 
Breslau,  i860. 

5,  Holdheim.  Die  Autonomic  der  Rabbinen  und  das  Prin- 
cip  der  jiidischen  Ehe.     Schwerin,  1847. 

L.  Lichtschein.  Die  Ehe  nach  mosaisch-talm.  AufTassung. 
Leipsic,  1879. 

M.  Mielziner.  The  Jewish  Law  of  Marriage  and  Divorce 
in  ancient  and  modem  times,  and  its  relation  to  the  law  of  the 
State.     Cincinnati,  1884. 

Joh.  Selden.  Uxor  Ebraica  sive  de  nuptiis  et  divortiis,  etc. 
London,  1646. 

7.  Stern.     Die  Frau  im  Talmud.     Zurich,  1879. 

D.  W.  Amram.  The  Jewish  Law  of  Divorce.  Philadel- 
phia, 1896. 

i.  Laws  Concerning  Slavery. 

D.   Farhstein.     Das   Recht   der  freien  und  der  unfreien 
.  Arbeiter  nach  juedish-tahnudischen  Recht.     Frankfort  o.  M., 
1896. 

M.  Mielziner.     Verhaltnisse  der  Sklaven  bei  den  alten 
5  — 


66  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

Hebraern  nach  biblischen  und  talmudischen  Quellen.    Copen- 
hagen (Leipsic),  1859. 

Remark. — An  English  translation  of  this  treatise  was  published  by  Prof.  11.  I. 
Schmidt  in  the  Gettysburg  Evang.  Review,  Vol.  XIII.,  No.  51,  and  reprinted  in  the 
Am.  Jew's  Annual.     Cincinnati,  1886, 

/.  Winter.  Stellung  der  Sklaven  bei  den  Juden,  Breslau, 
1886. 

Zadok-Kahn.  L'esclavage  selon  la  Bible  et  le  Talmud 
(Paris,  1867);  Sklaverei  nach  Bibel  u.  Talmud.  Deutschvon 
Singer.     Berlin,   1888. 

Linguistics. 

A.  Berliner.  Bei tr age  zur  hebraischen  Grammatik  im 
Talmud  u.  Midrasch.     Beriin,  1879, 

Ad.  Brull.  Fremdsprachliche  Redensarten  u.  Worter  in 
den  Talmuden  u.  Midraschim.     Leipsic,  1869. 

A''.  Briill.  Fremdsprachliche  Worter  in  den  Talmuden  u. 
Midraschim  (in  Jahrbiicher  flir  jiid.  Geschichte  u.  Literatur,  L, 
123-220).     Frankf.  o.  M.,  1874. 

Sam.  Kramer.  ,  Griechische  und  Lateinische  Lehnwoerter 
in  Talmud,  Midrasch  u.  Targum.     2  vols.     Berlin,  1898-99. 

Jos.  Pedes.  Etymologische  Studien  zur  Kunde  der  rabbi- 
nischen  Sprache  und  Alterthiimer.     Breslau,  187 1. 

G.  Riilf.  Zur  Lautleiire  der  aramaisch-talmudischen  Dia- 
lecte.     Breslau,  1879. 

Mich.  Sachs.  Beitrage  zur  Sprach-  und  Alterthumsfor- 
schung.     2  volumes.     Berlin,  1852-54. 

Mathematics. 

A.  Lieberman.  Das  Pronomen  und  das  Adverbium  des 
babyl. -talmudischen  Dialecte.     Berlin,  1895. 

B.  Zuckermann.  Das  Mathematische  im  Talmud.  Be- 
leuchtung  und  Elauterung  der  Talmudstellen  mathematischen 
Inhalts.     Breslau,  1878. 

Medicine,  Surgery,  etc. 

Jos.  Bergel.     Die  Medizin  der  Talmudisten.     Leipsic,  1885. 
Joach.    Halpern.      Beitrage    zur    Geschichte    der    talm. 
Chirurgie.     Breslau,  1869. 


HISTORICAL  AND   LITERARY   INTRODUCTION.     67 

A.  H.  Israels.  Collectanea  Gynaecologica  ex  Talmude 
Babylonico.     Groningen,  1845. 

L.  Katzenelsson.  Die  Osteologie  der  Talmudisten.  Eine 
talmudisch-anatonische  Studie  (in  Hebrew).  St.  Petersburg, 
1888. 

R.  I.  Wunderhar.  Biblisch-talmudische  Medicin.  2  vol- 
umes.    Riga  (Leipsic),  1850-60. 

Natural  History  and  Sciences. 

Jos.  Bergel.  Studien  iiber  die  naturwissenschaftlichen 
Kenntnisse  der  Talmudisten.     Leipsic,  1880. 

M .  Duschak.     Zur  Botanik  des  Talmud.     Budapest,  1870. 

L.  Lewysohn.  Die  Zoologie  des  Talmuds.  Frankf.  on  the 
M.,  1858. 

Imm.  Low.     Aramaische   Pflanzennamen.     Leipsic,    1881. 

Parseeism  in  the  Talmud. 

Alexander  Kohut.  Was  liat  die  talm.  Eschatologie  aus  dem 
Parsismus  aufgenommen?  (in  Z.  d.  D.  M.  G.,  vol.  XXI.,  pp. 
552-91) ;  Die  jiidische  Angelologie  und  Daemonologie  in  ihrer 
Abhangigkeit  vom  Parsismus  (Leipsic,  1866);  Die  talmu- 
disch-midraschische  Adamssage  in  ihrer  Riickbeziehung  auf  die 
pers.  Yima  und  Meshiasage  (in  Z.  d.  D.  M.  G.,  XXV.,  pp. 
59-94) ;  Die  Namen  der  pers.  u.  babylonischen  Feste  im  Tal- 
mud (in  Kobak's  Jeschurun,  vol.  VIII.,  49-64).  The  same 
subject  in  Revue  des  Etudes  Juives,  Vol.  XXIV. 

Poetry. 
5.  Sekles.    The  Poetry  of  the  Talmud.     New  York,  1880. 

Proverbs,  Maxims,  Parables. 

L.  Dukes.  Rabbinische  Blumenlese  (Leipsic,  1844) ;  Rab- 
binische  Sprachkunde  (Vienna,  1851). 

y.  R.  Furstenthal.  Rabbinische  Anthologie.  Breslau, 
1834. 

Giuseppe  Levi.  Parabeln,  Legenden  u.  Gedanken  aus  Tal- 
mud u.  Midrasch,  aus  dem  Italienischen  ins  Deutsche  ubetragen 
von  L.  Seligmann.     Leipsic,  1863. 


68  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

Lowenstein.  Sentenzen,  Spriiche  u.  Lebensregeln  aus  dem 
Talmud.     Berlin,  1887. 

Henry  Cohen.     Talmudic  Sayings.     Cincinnati,   1895. 

G.  Tabenhaus.  Echoes  of  Wisdom,  or  Talmudic  Sayings, 
Part  I.     Brooklyn,  1900. 

Psychology. 

M.  Jacohson.  Versuch  einer  Psychologic  des  Talmud. 
Hamburg,  1878. 

/.  Wiesner.  Zur  talmudischen  Psychologic  (in  Magazin 
fiir  jiidische  Geschichte  und  Literatur,  Vol.  I.,  1874,  and  II., 
1875). 

Religious  Philosophy  and  History. 

M.  Friedldnder.  Ben  Dosa  und  seine  Zeit,  oder  Einfluss 
der  heidnischen  Philosophic  auf  das  Judenthum  u.  Christen- 
thum.     Prague,  1872. 

M.  Gudemann.  Religionsgeschichtliche  Studien.  Leipsic, 
1876. 

M.  Joel.  Blicke  in  die  Religionsgeschichte  zu  Anfang  des 
II.  Jahrhunderts.     Breslau,  1880. 

A.  Nager.  Die  Religionsphilosophie  des  Talmud.  Leipsic, 
1864. 

SUPERNATURALISM    AND    SUPERSTITION. 

Gideon  Brecher.  Das  Transcendentale,  Magik  und  magi- 
sche  Heilarten  im  Talmud.     Vienna,  1850. 

David  7oel.  Der  Aberglaube  und  die  Stellung  des  Juden- 
thums  zu  demselben.     2  parts.     Breslau,  1881-3. 

Alex.  Kohut.  Judische  Angelologie  u.  Daemonologie  in  ihrer 
Abhangigkeit  vom  Parsismus.     Leipsic,  1866. 

Sal.  Thein.  Das  Princip  des  planetarischen  Einflusses 
nach  der  Anschauung  des  Talmud.     Vienna,  1876. 

S.  Wolff sohn.  Oneirologie  im  Talmud,  oder  der  Trauni 
nach  Auffassung  des  Tahnuds.     Breslau,  1874. 

Popular  Treatises  and  Lectures  on  the  Talmud. 

Tobias  Cohn.     Der  Talmud.     Ein  Vortrag.     Vienna,  1866 . 
Arsem  Dartnstetter.  The  Talmud  (translated  from  the  French 
by  Ilcnriette  Szold).     Philadelphia,  1897. 


HISTORICAL   AND   LITERARY   INTRODUCTION.     69 

Emanuel  Deutsch.  What  is  the  Talmud?  (in  the  Quar- 
terly Review  for  October,  1867,  reprinted  in  the  Literary  Re- 
mains, New  York,  1874). 

M.  Ehrentheil.     Der  Geist  des  Talmud.     Breslau,  1887. 

J.  Eschelhacher .  Zwei  Reden  ueber  den  Talmud.  Frank- 
fort o.  M.,  1897. 

Karl  Fischer.  Gutmeinung  iiber  den  Talmud.  Vienna, 
1883. 

H.  Goitein.  Anklaeger  und  Vertheidiger  des  Talmud. 
Frankf.  o.  M.,  1897. 

Sams.  Raph.  Hirsch.  Beziehung  des  Talmuds  zum  Juden- 
thum  und  zur  sozialen  Stellung  seiner  Bekenner.  Frankf.  o. 
M.,  1884. 

P.  I.  Hershon.     Talmudic  Miscellany.     London,  1880. 

P.  L.  Hershon.     Treasures  of  the  Talmud.     London,  1882. 

Ahram  S.  Isaacs.     Stories  from  the  Rabbis.     New  York, 

1893. 

A.  Jellinek.  Der  Talmud.  Zwei  Reden  (Vienna,  1865); 
Der  Talmudjude.     4  Reden  {Vienna,  1882-83). 

M.  Joel.     Gutachten  iiber  den  Talmud.     Breslau,  1877. 

Albert  Katz.  Der  wahre  Talmudjude.  Die  wichtigsten 
Grundsatze  des  talmudischen  Schriftthums  iiber  das  sittliche 
Leben  des  Menschen.     Berlin,  1893. 

5.  Klein.  Die  Wahrheit  iiber  den  Talmud  (aus  dem  Fran- 
zosischen  "La  verite  sur  le  Talmud,"  iibersetzt  von  S.  Mann- 
heimer.    Basel,  i860. 

Isidore  Loeb.  La  Contro verse  sur  le  Talmud  sous  Saint 
Louis.    Paris,  1881. 

H.  Polano.  The  Talmud,  Selections  from  the  contents  of 
that  ancient  book.     London,  1876. 

Ludwig  Philippson.  Zur  Characteristik  des  Talmuds  (in 
** Weltbewegende  Fragen."  Vol.  II.,  pp.  349-416.  Leipsic, 
1869). 

Em.  Schreiber.  The  Talmud.  A  series  of  (4)  Lectures. 
Denver,  1884. 

L.  Stern.     Ueber  den  Talmud.    Vortrag.     Wurzburg,  1875. 

J.  Stern.     Lichtstrahlen  aus  dem  Talmud.     Zurich,  1883. 

A.  A.  Wolff.  Talmudfjender  (the  Enemies  of  the  Talmud), 
in  Danish.     Copenhagen,  1878. 

August  Wiinsche.    Der  Talmud.    EineSkizze.    Zurich,  1879. 


70  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

M.  L.  Rodkinson.  What  is  the  Talmud?  (A  book  in 
Hebrew,  the  first  chapter  of  which  is  translated  into  English 
as  an  appendix  to  the  Pentateuch.  Its  language  and  charac- 
ters). Chicago,  1894.  In  the  first  prospectus  issued  by  the 
New  Amsterdam  Book  Co.,  it  is  republished  with  additional 
remarks. 

CHAPTER   IX. 

WHY  SHOULD    CHRISTIANS   FEEL  INTERESTED  IN  THE  TALMUD  ?  * 

Christian  theology  and  Jewish  theology  having  really  fol- 
lowed two  parallel  paths,  the  history  of  either  cannot  be  under- 
stood without  the  history  of  the  other.  Numberless  material 
details  of  the  gospels  find,  moreover,  their  commentary  in  the 
Talmud.  .  .  The  distinction  of  epochs  is  here  very  important, 
the  compilation  of  the  Talmud  extending  from  the  year  200  to 
the  year  500  nesiily .—Renan' s  ''Life  of  Jesus,"  Introduction. 

Is  the  literature  that  Jesus  was  familiar  with  in  his  early 
years  yet  in  existence  in  the  world  ?  Is  it  possible  for  us  to  get 
at  it?  Can  we  ourselves  review  the  ideas,  the  statements,  the 
modes  of  reasoning  and  thinking,  on  moral  and  religious  sub- 
jects, which  were  current  in  his  time,  and  must  have  been  re- 
volved by  him  during  those  silent  thirty  years  when  he  was 
pondering  his  future  mission  ?  To  such  inquiries  the  learned 
class  of  Jewish  rabbis  answer  by  holding  up  the  Talmud.  Here, 
say  they,  is  the  source  from  whence  Jesus  of  Nazareth  drew  the 
teachings  which  enabled  him  to  revolutionize  the  world ;  and 
the  question  becomes,  therefore^  an  interesting  one  to  every 
Christian,  What  is  the  Talmud?  .  .  . 

The  Talmud,  then,  is  the  written  form  of  that  which,  in  the 
time  of  Jesus,  was  called  the  Traditions  of  the  Elders,  and  to 
which  he  makes  frequent  allusions.     What  sort  of  book  is  it? 

The  answer  is  at  first  sight  discouraging  to  flesh  and  spirit. 
The  Talmud  appears  to  view  in  form  of  fourteen  heavy  fclio 
volumes,  of  thick,  solid  Hebrew  and  Aramaic  consonants,  with- 
out a  vowel  to  be  seen  from  the  first  word  of  the  first  volume 

*  Many  learned  men,  as  is  well  known  to  any  student,  have  in  each  century  since 
the  close  of  the  Talmud  written  about  the  necessity  of  Talmudic  studies,  even  for 
non-Jews.  We  have,  nevertheless  selected  for  quotation  some  statements  of  modern 
scholars  of  this  century,  to  tlie  effect  that  the  study  of  the  Talmud  is  highly  useful  to 
Christian  theologians. 


WHY  SHOULD  THE  TALMUD  BE  STUDIED?   71 

to  the  last  word  of  the  last.  Such  is  the  Jewish  Talmud,  in- 
cluding both  the  Jerusalem  and  the  Babylonian.  Who  can 
read  it?     It  can  be  read,  for  it  has  been  read  .  .  . 

The  Talmud  is  the  great  repository  of  the  mental  products 
of  a  most  vigorous  and  vivid  race  of  thinkers,  through  long 
ages  of  degradation,  persecution,  oppression,  and  sorrow;  and, 
as  such,  few  human  works  are  more  worthy  of,  or  will  better 
repay,  the  student  of  human  nature  .  .  . 

What  light  it  may  shed  on  the  words  of  Jesus  and  Paul  to 
know  the  modes  of  thought  which  were  such  a  perfect  world  in 
their  time!  When  Paul  speaks  of  his  studies  at  the  feet  of 
Gamaliel,  one  of  the  principal  authors  of  the  Talmud,  of  his 
profiting  in  the  matters  of  law  above  many  of  his  equals,  we 
see  him,  an  ardent  young  enthusiast,  on  the  way  to  become  an 
accomplished  rabbi,  perhaps  even  a  Nasi,  in  some  future  day, 
and  we  understand  what  he  means  when  he  says,  "  But  what 
things  were  gain  to  me,  these  I  counted  loss  to  Christ."  It  was 
a  whole  education  and  a  whole  life's  work  that  he  threw  at  the 
feet  of  his  new  Master. 

Looking  at  the  Talmud  in  contrast  with  any  other  ancient 
sacred  writings  extant  in  the  world,  except  the  Bible,  we  must 
be  struck  with  its  immense  superiority  .  .  . 

I  desire,  in  conclusion,  to  express  my  obligations  to  the 
ponderous  erudition  of  the  two  older  standard  authors  on  this 
subject  .  .  . 

The  writings  of  Dukes,  an  author  of  our  own  day,  are  es- 
pecially rich  in  regard  to  Rabbinic  proverbs  and  apologues; 
and  in  one  of  his  prefaces  he  expresses  the  hope  that  they  may 
be  of  some  use  even  to  that  rather  numerous  body  of  Christians 
who  give  little  other  evidence  of  being  Christians  at  all,  except 
that  of  hating  the  Jews. — Atlantic  Monthly,  vol.  21,  p.  673,  sq. 

The  science  of  our  day  owes  to  itself  the  duty  of  studying  the 
Talmud  impartially.  It  will  judge  worthy  of  its  attention  this 
monument  of  a  religion  and  a  civilization  whose  influence  has 
not  been  void  in  the  world,  and  whatever  its  absolute  value 
may  be  adjudged  to  be,  science  will  understand  it,  and  study 
its  formation  and  development.  It  will  demand  of  the  Talmud 
instruction,  or,  at  least,  information,  almost  as  varied  as  the 
subjects  coming  within  the  compass  of  science.  The  historian 
will  address  himself  to  it  for  light  upon  the  history  of  the 


72  THE   HISTORY   OF  THE  TALMUD. 

earlest  centuries  of  the  Christian  era,  and  of  the  centuries  im- 
mediately preceding  it,  and  though  not  seeking  in  it  precise 
data,  which  it  cannot  furnish,  he  will  be  sure  to  find  a  faithful 
picture  of  the  beliefs  and  ideas  of  the  Jewish  nation  on  its  moral 
and  spiritual  life.  The  naturalist  will  ask  of  it  numerous  ques- 
tions concerning  the  sciences,  physical,  natural,  or  medical. 
Has  it  ever  occurred  to  any  one  to  compile,  if  not  the  fauna,  at 
least  the  flora  of  the  Talmud ;  that  is,  of  the  Palestine  and 
Babylonia  contemporary  with  the  Empire  ?  It  were  easy  with 
it  as  a  basis  to  furnish  a  second  edition  of  Pliny's  Natural  His- 
tory, certainly  as  valuable  as  the  first.  The  lawyer  will  ques- 
tion it  on  the  history  of  its  jurisprudence,  will  investigate 
whether,  how,  and  by  what  intermediaries  Roman  law  and 
Persian  customs  influenced  it,  and  it  will  be  a  curious  study  to 
compare  the  results  that  two  different  civilizations,  directed 
by  opposite  principles,  have  reached  in  the  jus  civile  and  the 
jus  Talmudicum.  The  mythologist  will  dive  into  its  legends, 
and,  by  a  nice  application  of  the  comparative  method,  deter- 
mine the  history  of  Midrashic  mythology.  The  philologist  will 
devote  himself  to  the  language — that  abrupt,  rough  language 
by  means  of  which  the  Talmud  seems  to  please  itself  in  heaping 
up  obscurities  of  form  over  those  of  the  thought,  and  he  will  be 
sure  to  make  more  than  one  happy  find.  For,  says  the  author 
of  the  History  of  the  Semitic  Languages,  "the  lexical  spoliation 
and  grammatic  analysis  of  the  Talmudic  language,  according 
to  the  methods  of  modem  philology,  remain  to  be  made  .  ,  , 
That  language  fills  a  hiatus  in  the  history  of  Semitic 
idioms. 

Finally,  the  philosopher  will  demand  of  the  Talmud  the  ex- 
planation of  Judaism  and  the  history  of  Jewish  institutions, 
and  as  the  Talmudic  books  offer  the  completest  expression 
thereof,  and  as  he  has  at  hand  all  the  component  elements,  a 
scrupulous  analysis  will  give  him  the  law  of  the  development 
of  the  Jewish  religion. — Darmesteter,  "  The  Talmud,"  p.  96. 

Here  we  have  an  attempt — and  the  attempt  is  praiseworthy 
— to  put  the  Talmud,  or  the  substance  of  it,  into  plain  English, 
and  for  this  the  Christian  reader,  if  not  the  learned  rabbi,  must 
be  grateful  to  the  translator. — Independent,  April  7,  1898. 

Published  in  the  second  prospectus  issued  by  the  New  Tal- 
mud Publishing  Co.,  adding  to  them  some  remarks  of  Mielziner's 


WHY   SHOULD   THE   TALMUD   BE   STUDIED?        73 

address  to  the  senior  class  of  the  Union  Hebrew  College  at 
Cincinnati,  some  years  ago : 

' '  To  impress  you  the  more  with  the  necessity  of  the  Talmudic 
studies  for  a  clear  conception  of  Judaism  and  its  history,  I  could 
also  quote  the  opinions  of  many  of  our  greatest  scholars,  but 
shall  confine  myself  only  to  a  quotation  from  the  writings  of  two 
of  our  most  renowned  scholars  whom  none  will  suspect  of  hav- 
ing been  biased  by  a  too  great  predilection  for  the  Talmud ;  one 
is  the  late  Dr.  Geiger,  and  the  other  our  great  historian,  the  late 
Dr.  Jost. 

"  Geiger  (Das  Judenthum  und  seine  Geschichte,  I,,  p.  155)  in 
speaking  of  the  Talmud  and  the  rabbinical  literature,  says: 

"  '  Gigantic  works,  productions  of  gloomy  and  brighter  peri- 
ods are  here  before  us,  monuments  of  thought  and  intellectual 
labor;  they  excite  our  admiration.  I  do  not  indorse  every 
word  of  the  Talmud,  nor  every  idea  expressed  by  the  teachers 
in  the  time  of  the  Middle  Ages,  but  I  would  not  miss  a  tittle 
thereof.  They  contain  an  acumen  and  power  of  thought  which 
fill  us  with  reverence  for  the  spirit  that  animated  our  ancestors, 
a  fulness  of  sound  sense,  salutary  maxims — a  freshness  of  opin- 
ion often  bursts  upon  tis  that  even  to  this  day  exercises  its  en- 
livening and  inspiring  effect.' 

''Jost  in  his  Geschichte  des  Judenthum' s  und  seiner  Secten, 
II.,  202,  characterizes  the  Talmud  by  the  following  masterly 
words : 

"  *  The  Talmud  is  a  great  mine,  in  which  are  imbedded  all 
varieties  of  metals  and  ores.  Here  may  be  found  all  kinds  of 
valuables,  the  finest  gold  and  rarest  gems,  as  also  the  merest 
dross.  Much  has  been  unearthed  that  has  realized  count- 
less profit  to  the  world.  The  great  spiritual  work  whose  out- 
come has  been  apparent  in  the  advancement  of  religion  has 
shown  that  the  Talmud  is  not  only  of  incalculable  value  in  the 
pursuit  of  wisdom,  but  that  it  has  a  self-evident  significance  for 
all  times,  which  can  not  be  shown  by  any  mere  extracts  from  its 
pages,  and  that  it  can  not  be  disregarded  on  the  plea  of  its  antiq- 
uity as  valueless  in  the  knowledge  of  the  Jewish  religion.  In- 
deed it  is  and  must  remain  the  chief  source  of  this  knowledge, 
and  particularly  of  the  historical  development  of  the  Jewish 
religion.  More  than  this,  it  is  the  abode  of  that  spirit  which 
has  inspired  that  religion,  these  many  centuries,  that  spirit  from 


74  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

which  even  those  who  sought  to  counteract  it  could  not  escape. 
It  is  and  will  remain  a  labyrinth  with  deep  shafts  and  openings, 
in  which  isolated  spirits  toil  with  tireless  activity,  a  labyrinth 
which  offers  rich  rewards  to  those  who  enter  impelled  by  the  de- 
sire to  gain,  not  without  hidden  dangers  to  those  who  venture 
wantonly  into  its  mazes  and  absorb  its  deadly  vapors.  Re- 
ligion has  created  this  work,  not  indeed  to  give  utterance  in  an 
unsatisfactory  way  to  the  great  questions  of  Deity  and  Nature, 
Mortality  and  Eternity,  and  not  to  carry  on  controversies  upon 
the  proper  form.ulation  of  articles  of  faith,  but  to  give  expres- 
sion to  a  religion  of  deed,  a  religion  designed  to  accompany 
man  from  the  first  steps  in  his  education  imtil  he  reaches  the 
grave,  and  beyond  it;  a  guide  by  which  his  desires  and  actions 
are  to  be  regulated  at  every  moment,  by  which  all  his  move- 
ments are  to  be  guarded,  that  takes  care  even  of  his  food  and 
drink,  of  his  pleasures  and  pains,  of  his  mirth  and  sorrow,  and 
seeks  to  elevate  him,  at  all  times,  to  an  enunciation  of  the  pur- 
est faith. 

"  '  It  is  thus  that  this  spirit,  which  breathes  from  the  Talmud, 
enters  into  the  nation's  inmost  life.  It  offers  repeated  recitals 
of  the  various  modes  of  thinking,  practising,  believing,  of  the 
true  and  false  representations,  of  hopes  and  longings,  of  knowl- 
edge and  error,  of  the  great  lessons  of  fate,  of  undertakings 
and  their  consequences,  of  utterances  and  their  effects,  of  per- 
sons and  their  talents  and  inaptitudes,  of  words  and  ex- 
amples, of  customs,  both  in  matters  of  public  worship  and  pri- 
vate life ;  in  short,  of  all  the  happenings,  past  or  cotemporary, 
in  the  time  which  the  Talmud  comprises,  i.e.,  a,  period  of  nearly 
one  thousand  years,  excluding  the  Bible  times. 

"'Hence,  also,  its  great  value  to  antiquarians  in  the 
frequent  allusions  to  facts,  opinions  and  statements,  to  modes 
of  expression  and  grammatical  construction,  to  peculiarities 
of  every  kind,  which  at  the  same  time  afford  a  view  of  the 
development  of  mankind,  such  as  no  other  work  of  the  past 
gives. 

"  '  To  treat  the  Talmud  with  scorn  because  of  its  oddness,  on 
account  of  much  that  it  contains  that  docs  not  conform  to  our 
maturer  modes  of  thinking,  because  of  its  evident  errors  and 
misconceptions — errors  from  ignorance  or  errors  in  copying — 
to  throw  it  overboard,  as  it  were,  as  useless  ballast,  would  be 


OPINIONS   OF   GENTILES. 


75 


to  insult  all  history,  to  deprive  it  of  one  of  its  strongest  limbs, 
to  dismember  it. 

"  '  To  dam  up  itschannelsby  taking  away  the  Talmud,  would 
be  to  close  the  access  to  the  head  waters  and  living  sources  of 
the  Jewish  religion,  and  thus  leave  her  again  in  a  desert  land, 
after  the  tables  of  the  law  have  already  called  forth  a  world  of 
life  and  activity.  It  would  be  turning  one's  back,  as  it  were, 
denying  and  disregarding  one's  own.  There  is  a  historical  jus- 
tification for  the  sharply  defined  modes  of  worship  and  religious 
forms  that  have  their  embodiment  in  set  words  and  in  fixed 
deeds.  For  this  we  must  look  to  the  Talmud.  Judaism  is 
rooted  in  the  Talmud  and  would  be  tossed  about  in  mid-air  if 
torn  from  its  soil,  or  require  a  new  planting  and  a  new  growth.' 

"  In  conclusion,  my  young  friends,  let  me  say  this : 

"  If  our  College  had  no  other  purpose  than  to  graduate  com- 
mon Sabbath  school  teachers  who  should  be  able  to  occasionally 
deliver  popular  though  superficial  lectures,  the  study  of  the 
Talmud,  as  well  as  that  of  our  rabbinical  and  philosophical 
literature,  might  have  been  stricken  from  the  course  of  your 
studies.  But  our  College  has  a  higher  aim  and  object.  Its 
object  is  to  educate  future  guides  and  leaders  of  our  congrega- 
tions, to  educate  banner-bearers  of  Judaism,  representatives 
and  cultivators  of  Jewish  knowledge  and  literature. 

' '  You  can  never  expect  to  answer  this  purpose  without  a 
thorough  knowledge  of,  and  familiarity  with,  that  vast  litera- 
ture that  offers  us  the  means  to  follow  and  understand  the 
religious  formation,  the  growth  and  the  entire  course  of  devel- 
opment of  Judaism  from  its  beginning  to  the  present  time." 


CHAPTER  X. 

OPINIONS    ON   THE  VALUE    OF    THE    TALMUD    BY    GENTILES    AND 
MODERN   JEWISH    SCHOLARS. 

No  literary  monument  of  antiquity  has  ever  been  subject  to 
so  different  and  opposite  views  and  opinions,  as  the  Talmud. 
Its  strict  followers  generally  looked  upon  it  as  the  very  em- 
bodiment of  wisdom  and  sagacity,  and  as  a  work  whose  author- 
ity was  second  only  to  that  of  the  Bible.  In  the  non -Jewish 
literature  it  was  often  decried  as  "one  of  the  most  repulsive 


76  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE    TALMUD. 

books  that  exist,"  as  "a  confused  medley  of  perverted  logic, 
absurd  subtilities,  foolish  tales  and  fables,  and  full  of  profanity, 
superstition,  and  even  obscenity,"  or  at  the  most,  as  "an  im- 
mense heap  of  rubbish  at  the  bottom  of  which  some  stray  pearls 
of  Eastern  wisdom  are  hidden." 

It  is  certain  that  many  of  those  who  thus  asstmied  to  pass 
a  condemning  judgment  upon  the  gigantic  work  of  the  Talmud 
never  read  nor  were  able  to  read  a  single  page  of  the  same  in  the 
original,  but  were  prompted  by  religious  prejudice  and  antag- 
onism, or  they  based  their  verdict  merely  on  those  disconnected 
and  often  distorted  passages  which  Eisenmenger  and  his  con- 
sorts and  followers  picked  out  from  the  Talmud  for  hostile 
purposes. 

Christian  scholars  who  had  a  deeper  insight  into  the  Tal- 
mudical  literature,  without  being  blinded  by  religious  preju- 
dices, expressed  themselves  quite  differently  on  the  character 
and  the  merits  of  that  work,  as  may  be  seen  from  the  following 
few  quotations. 

Johann  Buxtorf,  in  the  preface  to  his  Lexicon  Chald.  et 
Talmudicum,  says :  "  The  Talmud  contains  many  legal,  medical, 
physical,  ethical,  political,  astronomical,  and  other  excellent 
documents  of  sciences,  which  admirably  commend  the  history 
of  that  nation  and  time ;  it  contains  also  luminous  decisions  of 
antiquity ;  excellent  sayings ;  deep  thoughts,  full  of  grace  and 
sense;  and  numerous  expressions  which  make  the  reader  not 
only  better,  but  also  more  wise  and  learned,  and  which,  like 
imto  flashing  jewels,  grace  the  Hebrew  speech  not  less  than  aU 
those  Greek  and  Roman  phrases  adorn  their  languages." 

Other  favorable  opinions  expressed  by  Christian  scholars 
of  the  sixteenth  to  eighteenth  centuries  are  collected  in  Karl 
Fischer's  "  Gutmeinung  uber  den  Talmud  der  Hebraer." 
Vienna,  1883. 

Of  such  scholars  as  belong  to  our  time,  the  following  may  be 
quoted  here: 

The  late  Professor  Delitzsch  in  his  "Judisclies  Hattdwerker' 
leben  ziir  Zcit  Jestt,"  says: 

"Those  who  have  not  in  some  degree  accomplished  the 
extremely  difficult  task  of  reading  this  work  for  themselves,  will 
hardly  be  able  to  form  a  clear  idea  of  this  polynomical  colossus. 
It  is  an  immense  speaking-hall,  in  which  thousands  and  tens  of 


OPINIONS   OF   GENTILES.  77 

thousand  of  voices,  of  at  least  five  centuries,  are  heard  to  com- 
mingle. A  law,  as  we  all  know  from  experience,  can  never  be 
so  precisely  formulated  that  there  does  not  remain  room  for 
various  interpretations ;  and  question  upon  question  constantly 
arises  as  to  the  application  of  it  to  the  endless  multiplicity  of  the 
existing  relations  of  life.  Just  imagine  about  ten  thousand 
decrees  concerning  Jewish  life  classified  according  to  the  spheres 
of  life,  and  in  addition  to  these,  about  five  hundred  scribes  and 
lawyers,  mostly  from  Palestine  and  Babylon,  taking  up  one 
after  another  of  these  decrees  as  the  topic  of  examination  and 
debate,  and,  discussing  with  hair-splitting  acuteness  every 
shade  of  meaning  and  practical  application;  and  imagine, 
further,  that  the  fine-spun  thread  of  this  interpretation  of 
decrees  is  frequently  lost  in  digressions,  and  that,  after  having 
traversed  long  distances  of  such  desert-sand,  you  find,  here  and 
there,  an  oasis,  consisting  of  sayings  and  accounts  of  more 
general  interest.  Then  you  may  have  some  slight  idea  of  this 
vast,  and  of  its  kind,  unique,  juridic  codex,  compared  with 
whose  compass  all  the  law-books  of  other  nations  are  but 
Lilliputians,  and  beside  whose  variegated,  buzzing  market  din, 
they  represent  but  quiet  study-chambers." 

J.  Alexander,  in  his  book  on  The  Jews;  their  Past,  Present 
and  Future  (London,  1870),  says: 

"The  Talmud,  as  it  now  stands,  is  almost  the  whole  litera- 
ture of  the  Jews  during  a  thousand  years.  Commentator  fol- 
lowed upon  commentator,  till  at  last  the  whole  became  an 
immense  bulk ;  the  original  Babylonian  Talmud  alone  consists 
of  2,947  folio  pages.  Out  of  such  literature  it  is  easy  to  make 
quotations  which  may  throw  an  odium  over  the  whole.  But 
fancy  if  the  production  of  a  thousand  years  of  English  literature, 
say,  from  the  "History"  of  the  Venerable  Bede  to  Milton's 
"Paradise  Lost,"  were  thrown  together  into  a  number  of  imi- 
form  folios,  and  judged  in  like  manner;  if  because  some  super- 
stitious monks  wrote  silly  "Lives  of  Saints,"  therefore  the 
works  of  John  Bunyan  should  also  be  considered  worthless. 
The  absurdity  is  too  obvious  to  require  another  word  from  me. 
Such,  however,  is  the  continual  treatment  the  Talmud  receives 
both  at  the  hand  of  its  friends  and  of  its  enemies.  Both  will 
find  it  easy  to  quote  in  behalf  of  their  preconceived  notions, 
but  the  earnest  student  will  rather  t^y  ir>  weigh  the  matter  im- 


78  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

partially,  retain  the  good  he  can  find  even  in  the  Talmud,  and 
reject  what  will  not  stand  the  test  of  God's  word." 

The  impartial  view  of  the  Talmud  taken  by  modem  Jewish 
scholars  may  be  seen  from  the  following  opinion  expressed  by 
the  late  Professor  Graetz  in  his  "History  of  the  Jews  "  (vol. 
IV.,  308  sq.). 

"The  Talmud  must  not  be  considered  as  an  ordinary 
literary  work  consisting  of  twelve  folios ;  it  bears  no,t  the  least 
internal  resemblance  to  a  single  literary  production ;  but  forms 
a  world  of  its  own  which  must  be  judged  according  to  its  own 
laws.  It  is,  therefore,  extremely  difficult  to  furnish  a  specific 
sketch  of  the  Talmud,  seeing  that  a  familiar  standard  or  an- 
alogy is  wanting.  And  however  thoroughly  a  man  of  consum- 
mate talent  may  have  penetrated  its  spirit  and  become  con- 
versant with  its  peculiarities,  he  would  scarcely  succeed  in  such 
a  task.  It  may,  in  some  respects,  be  compared  with  the 
Patristic  literature,  which  sprang  up  simultaneously.  But 
on  closer  inspection,  this  comparison  will  also  fail.   .   .  . 

"  The  Talmud  has  at  different  times  been  variously  judged 
on  the  most  heterogeneous  assumptions,  it  has  been  condemned 
and  consigned  to  the  flames ;  simply  because  it  was  presented 
in  its  unfavorable  aspect  without  taking  into  consideration  its 
actual  merits.  It  cannot  be  denied  that  the  Babylonian  Tal- 
mud labors  under  some  defects,  like  any  other  mental  product, 
which  pursues  a  single  course  with  inexorable  consistency  and 
tmdeviating  dogmatism.  These  defects  may  be  classified  under 
foiir  heads:  the  Talmud  contains  some  unessential  and  trival 
subjects,  which  it  treats  with  much  importance  and  a  serious 
air ;  it  has  adopted  from  its  Persian  surroundings  superstitious 
practices  and  views,  which  presuppose  the  agency  of  interme- 
diate spiritual  beings,  witchcraft,  exorcising  formulas,  magical 
cures  and  interpretations  of  dreams  and,  hence,  are  in  conflict 
with  the  spirit  of  Judaism ;  it  further  contains  several  uncharit- 
able utterances  and  provisions  against  members  of  other  na- 
tions and  creeds ;  lastly  it  favors  a  bad  interpretation  of  Scrip- 
ture, absurd,  forced  and  frequently  false  commentations.  For 
these  faults  the  whole  Talmud  has  been  held  responsible  and 
been  denounced  as  a  work  devoted  to  trifles,  as  a  source  of  im- 
morality and  trickery,  without  taking  into  consideration  that 
it  is  not  a  work  of  a  single  author  who  must  be  responsible 


OPINIONS   OF   GENTILES.  79 

for  every  word,  and  if  it  be  so,  then  the  whole  Jewish  people 
was  its  author.  Over  six  centuries  are  crystallized  in  the  Tal- 
mud with  animated  distinctness,  in  their  peculiar  costumes, 
modes  of  speech  and  of  thought,  so  to  say  a  literary  Hercula- 
neum  and  Pompeii,  not  weakened  by  artistic  imitation,  which 
transfers  a  colossal  picture  to  the  narrow  limits  of  a  miniature. 
It  is,  therefore,  no  wonder,  if  in  this  world  sublime  and  mean, 
great  and  small,  serious  and  ridiculous,  Jewish  and  heathen 
elements,  the  altar  and  the  ashes,  are  found  in  motley  mixture. 
Those  odious  dicta  of  which  Jew-haters  have  taken  hold  were 
in  most  cases  nothing  else  but  the  utterances  of  a  momentary 
indignation,  to  which  an  individual  had  given  vent  and  which 
were  preserved  and  embodied  in  the  Talmud  by  over-zealous 
disciples,  who  were  unwilling  to  omit  a  single  expression  of  the 
revered  ancients.  But  these  utterances  are  richly  counterbal- 
anced by  the  maxims  of  benevolence  and  philanthropy  towards 
every  man,  regardless  of  creed  and  nationality,  which  are  also 
preserved  in  the  Talmud.  As  coimterpoise  to  the  rank  super- 
stition, there  are  found  therein  sharp  warnings  against  super- 
stitious, heathen  practices  (Darke  Emori),to  which  subject  a 
whole  section,  under  the  name  of  Perek  Emorai,  is  devoted.* 

"The  Babylonian  Talmud  is  especially  characterized  and 
distinguished  from  the  Palestinian,  by  high-soaring  contempla- 
tions, a  keen  understanding,  and  flashes  of  thought  which  fit- 
fully dart  through  the  mental  horizon.  An  incalculable  store 
of  ideas  and  incentives  to  thinking  is  treasured  in  the  Talmud, 
but  not  in  the  form  of  finished  themes  that  may  be  appro- 
priated in  a  semi-somnolent  state,  but  with  the  fresh  coloring 
of  their  inception.  The  Babylonian  Talmud  leads  into  the 
laboratory  of  thought,  and  its  ideas  may  be  traced  from  their 
embryonic  motion  up  to  a  giddy  height,  whither  they  at  times 
soar  into  the  region  of  the  incomprehensible.  For  this  reason 
it  became,  more  than  the  Jerusalemean,  the  national  property, 
the  vital  breath,  the  soul  of  the  Jewish  people " 

*  Sabbath,  66a  ;    Toseptha,  Ch.  VIL,  VIII. 


PART  II. 

ETHICS   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

CHAPTER   I. 

TALMUDICAL    ETHICS. 

"  Ethics  is  the  flower  and  fruit  on  the  tree  of  religion.  The 
ultimate  aim  of  religion  is  to  ennoble  man's  inner  and  outer 
life,  so  that  he  may  love  and  do  that  only  which  is  right  and 
good.  This  is  a  biblical  teaching  which  is  emphatically  re- 
peated in  almost  every  book  of  Sacred  Scriptures.  Let  me 
only  refer  to  the  sublime  word  of  the  prophet  Micah :  '  He  hath 
showed  thee,  O  man,  what  is  good,  and  what  doth  the  Lord  re- 
quire of  thee,  but  to  do  justice  and  to  love  kindness  and  to  walk 
humbly  with  thy  God?'     (Micah  vi.,  8.) 

"  As  far  as  concerns  the  Bible,  its  ethical  teachings  are  gen- 
erally known.  Translated  into  all  languages  of  the  world,  that 
holy  book  is  accessible  to  every  one  and  whoever  reads  it  with 
open  eyes  and  with  an  unbiased  mind  will  admit  that  it  teaches 
the  highest  principles  of  morality,  principles  which  have  not 
been  surpassed  and  superseded  by  any  ethical  system  of  an- 
cient or  modem  philosophy. 

"  But  how  about  the  Talmud,  that  immense  literary  work 
whose  authority  was  long  esteemed  second  to  that  of  the 
Bible  ?     What  are  the  ethical  teachings  of  the  Talmud  ? 

"  Although  mainly  engaged  with  discussions  of  the  Law,  as 
developed  on  the  basis  of  the  Bible  during  Israel's  second  com- 
monwealth down  to  the  sixth  century  of  the  Christian  era,  the 
Talmud  devotes  also  much  attention  to  ethical  subjects.  Not 
only  are  one  treatise  of  the  Mishna  (Ptrke  Aboth)  and  some 
Boraithoth  (as  Aboth  d'R.  Nathan  and  Derech  Eretz)  almost 
exclusively  occupied  with  ethical  teachings,  but  such  teachings 
are  also  very  abundantly  contained  in  the  Hagadic  (homiletical) 


ETHICS.  ^  81 

passages  which  are  so  frequently  interspersed  in  the  legal  dis- 
cussions throughout  all  parts  of  the  Talmud.* 

"  It  must  be  borne  in  mind  that  the  Talmudical  literature 
embraces  a  period  of  about  eight  centuries,  and  that  the  nu- 
merous teachers  whose  ethical  views  and  utterances  are  recorded 
in  that  vast  literature,  rank  differently  in  regard  to  mind  and 
authority.  At  the  side  of  the  great  luminaries,  we  find  also 
lesser  ones.  At  the  side  of  utterances  of  great,  clear-sighted 
and  broad-minded  masters  with  lofty  ideas,  we  meet  also  with 
utterances  of  peculiar  views  which  never  obtained  authority. 
Not  every  ethical  remark  or  opinion  quoted  in  that  literature 
can,  therefore,  be  regarded  as  an  index  of  the  standard  of  Tal- 
mudical ethics,  but  such  opinions  only  can  be  so  regarded 
which  are  expressed  with  authority  and  which  are  in  harmony 
with  the  general  spirit  that  pervades  the  Talmudic  literature. 

"  Another  point  to  be  observed  is  the  circumstance  that  the 
Talmud  does  not  treat  of  ethics  in  a  coherent,  philosophical 
system.  The  Talmudic  sages  made  no  claim  of  being  philos- 
ophers ;  they  were  public  teachers,  expotmders  of  the  Law,  popu- 
lar lecturers.  As  such,  they  did  not  care  for  a  methodically 
arranged  system.  All  they  wanted  was  to  spread  among  the 
people  ethical  teachings  in  single,  concise,  pithy,  pointed  sen- 
tences, well  adapted  to  impress  the  minds  and  hearts,  or  in 
parables  or  legends  illustrating  certain  moral  duties  and  virtues. 
And  this,  their  method,  fully  answered  its  purpose.  Their 
ethical  teachings  did  actually  reach  the  Jewish  masses,  and  in- 
fluenced their  conduct  of  life,  while  among  the  Greeks,  the 
ethical  theories  and  systems  remained  a  matter  that  concerned 
the  philosophers  only,  without  exercising  any  educating  influ- 
ence upon  the  masses  at  large. 

"  Furthermore,  it  must  be  remembered  that  the  Talmudical 
ethics  is  largely  based  on  the  ethics  of  the  Bible.  The  sacred 
treasure  of  biblical  truth  and  wisdom  was  in  the  minds  and 
hearts  of  the  Rabbis.  This  treasury  they  tried  to  enrich  by 
their  own  wisdom  and  observation.  Here  they  develop  a 
principle  contained  in  a  scriptural  passage,  and  give  it  a  wider 

"  *  Also  the  Midrash,  a  post-Talmudic  collection  of  extracts  from  popular  lectures 
of  the  ancient  teachers  on  biblical  texts,  contains  an  abundance  of  ethical  teachings 
and  maxims  advanced  by  the  sages  of  the  Talmud,  which  must  likewise  be  taken  into 
consideration  when  speaking  of  Talmudical  Ethics. 
6 


82  THE   HISTORY  OF  THE  TALMUD. 

scope  and  a  larger  application  to  life's  various  conditions. 
There  they  crystallize  great  moral  ideas  into  a  pithy,  impress- 
ive maxim  as  a  guide  for  human  conduct.  Here  they  give  to  a 
jewel  of  biblical  ethics  a  new  lustre  by  setting  it  in  the  gold  of 
their  own  wisdom.  There  again  they  combine  single  pearls  of 
biblical  wisdom  to  a  graceful  ornament  for  human  life." — M. 
Mielziner. 

There  are  many  books  written  upon  the  ethics  of  the  Tal- 
mud which  are  enumerated  in  the  bibliography.  The  most  ex- 
cellent of  these  is  the  philosophical  book  of  Professor  Lazarus, 
"Ethik  des  Judenthums,"  in  German,  Frankfort  o.  M.,  1898, 
the  first  volume  of  which  is  translated  into  English  by  the  Jew- 
ish Publication  Society.  The  second  volume  of  this  work,  we 
have  heard,  is  ready  for  or  already  in  print.* 

However,  to  enable  the  reader,  to  get  an  idea  of  the  Talmud 
Ethics,  without  troubling  him  with  the  various  books  in  differ- 
ent languages,  an  extract  which  was  mad^  by  Mielziner  shall  be 
given  in  this  book,  whose  selections  are  so  excellent  that  practi- 
cally we  have  nothing  to  add.  We,  however,  would  call  the 
attention  of  the  reader  to  a  book  written  by  us  in  our  period- 
ical Hacol,  Vol.  VL,  Vienna,  1885  (translated  into  German  but 
not  yet  published),  in  which  the  subject  of  love  of  mankind  is 
explained  in  two  parallels,  that  of  the  Talmud  and  that  in 
which  we  have  drawn  a  parallel  between  the  conceptions  of 
both  Talmud  and  Evangelium  as  to  the  moral  content  of  the 
principle  of  Love.  An  extract  of  this  explanation  we  should 
like  to  give  here : 

The  commandment  in  the  Old  Testament  (Leviticus  xix., 
17):  "Love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself,"  the  Talmud  interprets 
in  a  negative  sense  by  the  words  of  Hillel,  the  elder,  thus :  "  That 
which  thou  likest  not  being  done  unto  thyself  do  not  imto  thy 
neighbor,"  and  this  rule  the  Talmud  adopts  in  all  the  ways  of 
charity,  and  in  all  affairs  in  which  man  comes  in  contact  with 

*  Wc  cannot  restrain  ourselves  from  expressing  our  great  sorrow  over  the  death 
of  this  great  man  which  occurred  this  year.  He  was  our  friend  and  patron,  and  many 
days  and  weeks  we  had  been  fortunate  to  spend  in  his  company,  when,  in  1883,  we 
had  the  pleasure  to  read  before  him  the  several  thousand  quotations  from  the  Talmud, 
which  we  had  prepared  for  his  work,  "  Ethik  des  Judenthums,"  at  his  request.  We 
certainly  do  not  know  how  many  of  them  he  has  made  use  of.  However,  he  wrote 
us  a  few  years  ago  that  our  name  and  service  would  be  mentioned  in  the  second 
volume  of  his  book.  To  our  great  sorrow  he  departed  before  the  second  volume  was 
published. 


ETHICS.  83 

his  fellow-man;  e.g.,  based  upon  this  biblical  commandment 
it  is  forbidden  to  betroth  a  woman  before  seeing  her,  for  he  may- 
dislike  her  thereafter,  and  as  one  does  not  wish  to  be  disliked 
himself,  he  must  not  cause  another  to  be  disliked.     And  so  in 
all  connections  with  one's  neighbor,  it  is  forbidden  to  do  him 
any  harm  whatsoever,  because  one  dislikes  that  he  himself 
should  be  harmed.     Also  concerning  the  duties  of  charity, 
numerous   special   commandments   are   to   be  found   in  the 
Old  Testament.     The  Talmud  explains  most  of  them  nega- 
tively, viz. :  "Thou  shalt  not  leave  thy  neighbor  to  suffer  any 
pain  whatsoever,  but  thou  shalt  prevent  it  by  supplying  him 
with  whatsoever  thou  canst  afford."     However,  the  rich  man 
is  not  obliged  to  divide  his  money  or  property  with  the  poor,  nor 
to  supply  him  with  luxuries  if  the  poor  man  had  not  been  used 
to  them  before  he  became  poor.     (More  details  will  be  found 
in  each  subject  mentioned  further  on.)     Hence  this  obligation 
which  is  proper  and  in  accordance  with  common  sense,  can  be 
fulfilled  by  every  one  without  any  difficulty.     The  Evangelist, 
however,  interprets  the  passage  (Levit.  xix.,  17)  in  a  positive 
sense  (Matt,  vii.,  1 2) :  "Therefore  all  things  whatsoever  ye  would 
that  men  should  do  to  you,  do  ye  even  so  to  them,  for  this 
is  the  Law  and  the  prophets."     After  a  deep  consideration, 
it  is  almost  impossible  for  one  to  entirely  fulfil  this  command- 
ment.    According  to  this,  one  must  divide  his  money  and 
property  with  those  not  possessing  such.     "Whatsoever  ye 
would  that  men  should  do  to  you!"     Who  then  would  not 
want  to  be  rich  and  to  live  luxuriously ;  to  ride  instead  of  going 
on  foot,  to  be  dressed  in  the  best  garments  according  to  the 
latest  style,  etc.?     Hence  if  one  would  like  to  live  up  to  the 
words  of  the  Evangelist,  he  must  see  that  the  life  of  his  poor 
neighbor  should  be  made  exactly  equal  to  his  own  life,  which 
certainly  can  never  and  was  never  accomplished.     The  same 
is  with  the  command  in  Luke  vi.,  29:    "And  imto  him  that 
smiteth  thee  on  the  one  cheek  offer  also  the  other,"  which  was 
never  and  will  never  be  fulfilled,  as  this  is  against  the  nature  of 
mankind,  especially  when  one  is  in  wrath  whilst  being  beaten. 
Therefore  nothing  of  this  kind  is  to  be  found  in  the  Talmud. 
On  the  contrary  the  Talmud  says :  "  He  who  raises  his  hand  to 
strike  his  neighbor  is  already  considered  wicked  even  before  he 
ho-s  smitten  him."     The  above-mentioned  book  quotes  this 


84  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

parallel  in  every  affair  in  which  human  beings  come  in  contact 
with  each  other.  It  is  remarkable  that  in  the  explanation  of 
Deut.  vi.,  4,  "Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord,  thy  God,  etc.,"  the 
Talmud  also  does  not  interpret  this  literally,  thinking  that  it  is 
impossible  to  impose  upon  the  heart  to  love,  especially  Him 
whom  one  has  never  seen,  and  of  whom  one  has  not  even  a 
correct  idea.  Therefore  they  interpreted  this  passage  thus, 
"  The  name  of  the  Lord  shall  be  loved  through  thy  treatment 
of  thy  fellow-men,  viz.  "  thy  commerce  with  men  should  be  just 
and  peaceful ;  thy '  yes '  should  be  firm  and  thy '  no '  un variable ; 
so  that  it  should  be  proclaimed:  'Hail  the  man  who  follows 
the  Law  of  the  Lord,  which  is  Love  thy  fellow-men !  Therefore 
let  us  and  our  children  also  study  this  magnificent  Law.' 
The  result  evidently  is  that  the  name  of  the  Lord  is  glorified 
through  thee ' ' 

All  the  ethics  of  the  Talmud  are  thus  set  up  with  a  view  to 
make  their  observance  possible  in  all  their  particulars,  w^hich 
is  not  the  case  with  the  teaching  of  the  Evangelist. 

Finally,  we  beg  to  quote  the  beginning  of  the  first  chapter 
of  the  above-mentioned  book: — Abyye  used  to  say:  "One 
should  be  always  keen  in  the  fear  of  God;  use  meek  talk, 
prevent  wrath,  bestow  thy  greeting  upon  every  one  in  the 
market,  even  if  he  be  a  stranger.  This  will  cause  you  to  be 
loved  by  Heaven  and  liked  by  thy  fellow-men."  It  was  said 
about  R.  Yohanan  b.  Zakkai,  that  it  never  happened  that  he 
should  have  been  greeted  first  (for  he  was  it  who  greeted  every 
one  first,  as  soon  as  he  perceived  him).* 

CHAPTER  II. 

Let  us  now  try  to  give  a  few  outlines  of  the  ethical 
teachings  of  the  Talmud.       In  the  first  place,  concerning 

Man  as  a  Moral  Being. 

In  accordance  with  the  teaching  of  the  Bible,  the  rabbis 
duly  emphasize  man's  dignity  as  a  being  created  in  the  like- 

*  This  paragraph  is  said  by  Abyye  in  pure  Bible-Hebrew,  which  was  not  the 
language  used  by  him  in  every-day  talk.  We  infer  from  this  and  also  from  the 
expression  "  he  used  to  say"  that  he  only  quoted  a  traditional  proverb  which  was 
established  ever  since  the  oral  law  had  been  started* 


ETHICS.  85 

ness  of  God.  By  this  likeness  of  God  they  understand  the 
spiritual  being  within  us,  that  is  endowed  with  intellectual  and 
moral  capacities.  The  higher  desires  and  inspirations  which 
spring  from  this  spiritual  being  in  man,  are  called  Yetzer  tob, 
the  good  inclination ;  but  the  lower  appetites  and  desires  which 
rise  from  our  physical  nature  and  which  we  share  with  the 
animal  creation,  are  termed  Yetzer  ha-ra,  the  inclination  to 
evil.  Not  that  these  sensuous  desires  are  absolutely  evil ;  for 
they,  too,  have  been  implanted  in  man  for  good  purposes. 
Without  them  man  could  not  exist,  he  would  not  cultivate  and 
populate  this  earth,  or,  as  a  Talmudical  legend  runs:  Once, 
some  over-pious  people  wanted  to  pray  to  God  that  they  might 
be  able  to  destroy  the  Yetzer  ha-ra,  but  a  warning  voice  was 
heard,  saying:  "Beware,  lest  you  destroy  this  world!"  Evil 
are  those  lower  desires  only  in  that  they,  if  unrestrained,  easily 
mislead  man  to  live  contrary  to  the  demands  and  aspirations  of 
his  divine  nature.  Hence  the  constant  struggle  in  man  be- 
tween the  two  inclinations.  He  who  submits  his  evil  inclina- 
tion to  the  control  of  his  higher  aims  and  desires  is  virtuous 
and  righteous.  "  The  righteous  are  governed  by  the  Yetzer  tob, 
but  the  wicked  by  the  Yetzer  ha-ra.  The  righteous  have 
their  desires  in  their  power,  but  the  wicked  are  in  the  power 
of  their  desires." 

Free-will. 

Man's  free-will  is  emphasized  in  the  following  sentences: 
"Everything  is  ordained  by  God's  providence,  but  freedom 
of  choice  is  given  to  man."  "Everything  is  foreordained  by 
heaven,  except  the  fear  of  heaven,"  or,  as  another  sage  puts 
it :  Whether  man  be  strong  or  weak,  rich  or  poor,  wise  or  fool- 
ish depends  mostly  on  circumstances  that  surround  him  from 
the  time  of  his  birth,  but  whether  man  be  good  or  bad,  right- 
eous or  wicked,  depends  upon  his  own  free-will. 

God's  Will,  the  Ground  of  Man's  Duties. 

The  groimd  of  our  duties,  as  presented  to  us  by  the  Tal- 
mudical as  well  as  the  biblical  teachings,  is  that  it  is  the  will  of 
God.  His  will  is  the  supreme  rule  of  our  being.  "  Do  His  will 
as  thy  own  will,  submit  thy  will  to  His  will."     "  Be  bold  as  a 


86  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

leopard,  light  as  an  eagle,  swift  as  a  roe,  and  strong  as  a  lion, 
to  do  the  will  of  thy  Father,  who  is  in  heaven." 

Man  Accountable  to  God  for  his  Conduct. 

Of  man's  responsibility  for  the  conduct  of  his  life,  we  are 
forcibly  reminded  by  numerous  sentences,  as :  "  Consider  three 
things,  and  thou  wilt  never  fall  into  sin ;  remember  that  there 
is  above  thee  an  all-seeing  eye,  an  all-hearing  ear,  and  a  record 
of  all  thy  actions."  And  again,  "Consider  three  things,  and 
thou  wilt  never  sin;  remember  whence  thou  comest,  whither 
thou  goest,  and  before  whom  thou  wilt  have  to  render  account 
for  thy  doings." 

Higher  Motives  in  Performing  our  Duties. 

Although  happiness  here  and  hereafter  is  promised  as  re- 
ward for  fulfilment,  and  punishment  threatened  for  neglect 
of  duty,  still  we  are  reminded  not  to  be  guided  by  the  consid- 
eration of  reward  and  punishment,  but  rather  by  love  and 
obedience  to  God,  and  by  love  to  that  which  is  good  and  noble. 
"  Be  not  like  servants,  who  serve  their  master  for  the  sake  of 
reward."  "Whatever  thou  doest,  let  it  be  done  in  the  name 
of  heaven"  (that  is,  for  its  own  sake). 

Duty  of  Self-Preservation  and  Self-Cultivation. 

As  a  leading  rule  of  the  duties  of  self-preservation  and  self- 
cultivation,  and,  at  the  same  time,  as  a  warning  against  selfish- 
ness, we  have  Hillel's  sentence:  "If  I  do  not  care  for  my- 
self, who  will  do  it  for  me  ?  and  if  I  care  only  for  myself,  what 
am  I?" 

The  duty  of  acquiring  knowledge,  especially  knowledge  of 
the  Divine  Law  (Torah),  which  gives  us  a  clearer  insight  in 
God's  will  to  man,  is  most  emphatically  enjoined  in  numerous 
sentences:  "Without  knowledge  there  is  no  true  morality  and 
piety."  "  Be  eager  to  acquire  knowledge,  it  does  not  come  to 
thee  by  inheritance."  "The  more  knowledge,  the  more  spirit- 
ual life."  "  If  thou  hast  acquired  knowledge,  what  dost  thou 
lack?  but  if  thou  lackest  knowledge,  what  hast  thou  acquired? " 


ETHICS.  87 

But  we  are  also  reminded  that  even  the  highest  knowledge  is 
of  no  value,  as  long  as  it  does  not  influence  our  moral  life.  ' '  The 
ultimate  end  of  all  knowledge  and  wisdom  is  man's  inner  puri- 
fication and  the  performance  of  good  and  noble  deeds."  "  He 
whose  knowledge  is  great  without  influencing  his  moral  life  is 
compared  to  a  tree  that  has  many  branches,  but  few  and  weak 
roots;  a  storm  cometh  and  overtumeth  it." 

Labor. 

Next  to  the  duty  of  acquiring  knowledge,  that  of  industrious 
labor  and  useful  activity  is  strongly  enjoined.  It  is  well  known 
that  among  the  ancient  nations  in  general  manual  labor  was 
regarded  as  degrading  the  free  citizen.  Even  the  greatest  philos- 
ophers of  antiquity,  Plato  and  Aristotle,  could  not  free  them- 
selves of  this  deprecating  view  of  labor.  How  different  was  the 
view  of  the  Talmudic  sages  in  this  respect!  They  say:  "Love 
labor,  and  hate  to  be  a  lord. "  "  Great  is  the  dignity  of  labor ;  it 
honors  man."  "Beautiful  is  the  intellectual  occupation,  if 
combined  with  some  practical  work."  "He  who  does  not 
teach  his  son  a  handicraft  trade,  neglects  his  parental  duty." 
"  He  who  lives  on  the  toil  of  his  hands  is  greater  than  he  who 
indulges  in  idle  piety." 

In  accordance  with  these  teachings,  some  of  the  most 
prominent  sages  of  the  Talmud  are  known  to  have  made  their 
living  by  various  kinds  of  handicraft  and  trade. 

Cardinal  Duties  in  Relation  to  Fellow-men. 

Regarding  man's  relation  to  fellow-men,  the  rabbis  con- 
sider justice,  truthfulness,  peaceableness  and  charity  as  cardinal 
duties.  They  say,  "The  world  (human  society)  rests  on  three 
things — on  justice,  on  truth  and  on  peace." 

Justice. 

The  principle  of  justice  in  the  moral  sense  is  expressed  in 
the  following  rules : "  Thy  neighbor's  property  must  be  as  sacred 
to  thee  as  thine  own."  "Thy  neighbor's  honor  must  be  as 
dear  to  thee  as  thine  own."     Hereto  belongs  also  the  golden 


88  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

rule  of  Hillel:  "Whatever  would  be  hateful  to  thee,  do  not  to 
thy  neighbor." 

Truth  and  Truthfulness. 

The  sacredness  of  truth  and  truthfulness  is  expressed  in  the 
sentence :  "Truth  is  the  signet  of  God,  the  Most  Holy."  " Let 
thy  yea  be  in  truth,  and  thy  nay  be  in  truth."  "Truth  lasts 
forever,  but  falsehood  must  vanish." 

Admonitions  concerning  faithfulness  and  fidelity  to  given 
promises  are:  "Promise  little  and  do  much."  "To  be  faith- 
less to  a  given  promise  is  as  sinful  as  idolatry."  "To  break  a 
verbal  engagement,  though  legally  not  binding,  is  a  moral 
wrong."  Of  the  numerous  warnings  against  any  kind  of  de- 
ceit, the  following  may  be  mentioned:  "It  is  sinful  to  deceive 
any  man,  be  he  even  a  heathen,"  "Deception  in  words  is  as 
great  a  sin  as  deception  in  money  matters."  When,  says  the 
Talmud,  the  immortal  soul  will  be  called  to  accoimt  before  the 
divine  tribunal,  the  first  question  will  be,  "  Hast  thou  been 
honest  and  faithful  in  all  thy  dealings  with  thy  fellow-men? " 

Peacefulness. 

Peace  and  harmony  in  domestic  life  and  social  intercourse 
as  well  as  in  pubHc  affairs  are  considered  by  the  Talmudic 
sages  as  the  first  condition  of  human  welfare  and  happiness, 
or  as  they  express  it:  "Peace  is  the  vessel  in  which  aU  God's 
blessings  are  presented  to  us  and  preserved  by  us."  "Be  a 
disciple  of  Aaron,  loving  peace,  and  pursuing  peace."  To  make 
peace  between  those  in  disharmony  is  regarded  as  one  of  the 
most  meritorious  works  that  secure  happiness  and  bliss  here 
and  hereafter. 

As  virtues  leading  to  peace,  those  of  mildness  and  meek- 
ness, of  gentleness  and  placidity  are  highly  praised  and  recom- 
mended. "Be  not  easily  moved  to  anger."  "Be  humble  to 
thy  superior,  affable  to  thy  inferior,  and  meet  every  man  with 
friendliness."  "He  who  is  slow  to  anger,  and  easily  pacified, 
is  truly  pious  and  virtuous."  "Man,  be  ever  soft  and  pliant 
like  a  reed,  and  not  hard  and  unbending  like  the  cedar." 
"Those  who,  when  offended,  do  not  give  offence,  when  hearing 
slighting  remarks,  do  not  retaliate — they  are  the  friends  of 
God,  they  shall  shine  forth  like  the  stin  in  its  glory." 


ETHICS.  80 

Charity. 

The  last  of  the  principal  duties  to  fellow-men  is  charity, 
which  begins  where  justice  leaves  off.  Professor  Steinthal,  in  his 
work  on  General  Ethics,  remarks  that  among  the  cardinal  vir- 
tues of  the  ancient  philosophers  we  look  in  vain  for  the  idea 
of  love  and  charity,  Vv^hereas  in  the  teachings  of  the  Bible,  we 
generally  find  the  idea  of  love,  mercy  and  charity  closely  con- 
nected with  that  of  justice.  And  we  may  add,  as  in  the  Bible 
so  also  in  the  Talmud,  where  charity  is  considered  as  the  highest 
degree  in  the  scale  of  duties  and  virtues.  It  is  one  of  the  main 
pillars  on  which  the  welfare  of  the  human  world  rests. 

The  duty  of  charity  (Gemilath  Chesed)  extends  farther  than 
to  mere  almsgiving  (Tzedaka).  "Almsgiving  is  practised  by 
means  of  money,  but  charity  also  by  personal  services  and 
by  words  of  advice,  sympathy  and  encouragement.  Alms- 
giving is  a  duty  towards  the  poor  only,  but  charity  towards 
the  rich  as  well  as  the  poor,  nay,  even  towards  the  dead  (by 
taking  care  of  their  decent  burial)." 

By  works  of  charity  man  proves  to  be  a  true  image  of  God, 
whose  attributes  are  love,  kindness  and  mercy.  "He  who 
turns  away  from  works  of  love  and  charity  turns  away  from 
God. ' '  ' '  The  works  of  charity  have  more  value  than  sacrifices ; 
they  are  equal  to  the  performance  of  all  religious  duties." 

Concerning  the  proper  way  of  practising  this  virtue,  the 
Talmud  has  many  beautiful  sentences,  as :  "  The  merit  of  chari- 
table works  is  in  proportion  to  the  love  with  which  they  are 
practised."  "  Blessed  is  he  who  gives  from  his  substance  to 
the  poor,  twice  blessed  he  who  accompanies  his  gift  with  kind, 
comforting  words."  "The  noblest  of  all  charities  is  enabling 
the  poor  to  earn  a  livelihood."  He  who  is  unable  to  give  much 
shall  not  withold  his  little  mite,  for  "as  a  garment  is  made  up 
of  single  threads,  so  every  single  gift  contributes  to  accom- 
plish a  great  work  of  charity." 

Duties  concerning  Special  Relations. 

Besides  these  principal  duties  in  relation  to  fellow-men  in 
general,  the  Talmud  treats  also  very  elaborately  of  duties  con- 
cerning the  various  relations  of  life.     Not  intending  to  enter 


90  THE   HISTORY  OF  THE  TALMUD. 

here  into  all  details,  we  shall  restrict  ourselves  to  some  of  its 
ethical  teachings  in  reference  to  the  domestic  relations,  and 
regarding  the  relation  to  the  country  and  the  community. 

The  Conjugal  Relation. 

"First  build  a  house  and  plant  a  vineyard  {i.e.,  provide 
for  the  means  of  the  household),  and  then  take  a  wife."  "  Let 
youth  and  old  age  not  be  joined  in  marriage,  lest  the  purity 
and  peace  of  domestic  life  be  disturbed."  "A  man's  home 
means  his  wife."  "  Let  a  man  be  careful  to  honor  his  wife,  for 
he  owes  to  her  alone  all  the  blessings  of  his  house."  "  If  thy 
wife  is  small,  bend  down  to  her,  to  take  counsel  from  her." 
"Who  is  rich?  He  who  has  a  noble  wife."  "A  man  should  be 
careful  lest  he  afflict  his  wife,  for  God  counts  her  tears."  "If 
in  anger  the  one  hand  removed  thy  wife  or  thy  child,  let  the 
other  hand  again  bring  them  back  to  thy  heart."  "He  who 
loves  his  wife  as  his  own  self,  and  honors  her  more  than  him- 
self, and  he  who  educates  his  children  in  the  right  way,  to  him 
applies  the  divine  promise:  Thou  shalt  know  that  there  is 
peace  in  thy  tent."  "Tears  are  shed  on  God's  altar  for  the 
one  who  forsakes  the  wife  of  his  youth."  "He  who  divorces 
his  wife,  is  hated  before  God." 

Parents  and  Children. 

"Parental  love  should  be  impartial,  one  child  must  not  be 
preferred  to  the  other."  "It  is  a  father's  duty  not  only  to 
provide  for  his  minor  children,  but  also  to  take  care  of  their 
instruction,  and  to  teach  his  son  a  trade  and  whatever  is  neces- 
sary for  his  future  welfare."  "The  honor  and  reverence  due 
to  parents  are  equal  to  the  honor  and  reverence  due  to  God." 
"Where  children  honor  their  parents,  there  God  dwells,  there 
He  is  honored." 

Country  and  Community. 

Regarding  duties  to  the  country  and  the  community,  the 
Rabbis  teach:  "The  law  of  the  country  is  as  sacred  and  bind- 
ing as  God's  law."  "  Pray  for  the  welfare  of  the  government ; 
without  respect  for  the  government,  men  would  swallow  each 


ETHICS.  91 

other."  "Do  not  isolate  thyself  from  the  community  and  its 
interests."  "It  is  sinful  to  deceive  the  government  regard- 
ing taxes  and  duties."  "Do  not  aspire  for  public  offices; 
but  where  there  are  no  men,  try  thou  to  be  the  man."  "  Those 
who  work  for  the  community  shall  do  it  without  selfishness, 
but  with  the  pure  intention  to  promote  its  welfare." 

General  Characteristics.  ' 

To  these  short  outlines  of  Talmudical  ethics  let  us  add  only 
a  few  general  remarks.  Being  essentially  a  development  of 
the  sublime  ethical  principles  and  teachings  of  the  Bible,  the 
Talmudical  ethics  retains  the  general  characteristics  of  that 
origin. 

It  teaches  nothing  that  is  against  human  nature,  nothing 
that  is  incompatible  with  the  existence  and  welfare  of  human 
society.  It  is  free  from  the  extreme  excess  and  austerity  to 
which  the  lofty  ideas  of  religion  and  morality  were  canied  by 
the  theories  and  practices  of  some  sects  inside  and  outside  of 
Judaism. 

Nay,  many  Talmudical  maxims  and  sayings  are  evidently 
directed  against  such  austerities  and  extravagances.  Thus- 
they  warn  against  the  monastic  idea  of  obtaining  closer  com- 
munion with  God  by  fleeing  from  human  society  and  by  seclu- 
sion from  temporal  concerns  of  life :  ' '  Do  not  separate  thyself 
from  society."  "  Man's  thoughts  and  ways  shall  always  be  in 
contact  and  sympathy  with  fellow-men."  "No  one  shall  de- 
part from  the  general  customs  and  manners."  "Better  is  he 
who  lives  on  the  toil  of  his  hand,  than  he  who  indulges  in  idle 
piety." 

They  strongly  discountenance  the  idea  of  celibacy,  which 
the  Essenes,  and  later,  some  orders  of  the  Church  regarded  as 
a  superior  state  of  perfection.  The  rabbis  say:  "  He  who  lives 
without  a  wife  is  no  perfect  man."  "To  be  unmarried  is  to 
live  without  joy,  without  blessing,  without  kindness,  without 
religion  and  without  peace."  "As  soon  as  man  marries,  his 
sins  decrease." 

While,  on  the  one  hand,  they  warn  against  too  much  indul- 
gence in  pleasures  and  in  the  gratification  of  bodily  appetites 
and  against  the  insatiable  pursuit  of  earthly  goods  and  riches, 


92  THE  HISTORY  OF  THE  TALMUD. 

as  well  as  against  the  inordinate  desire  of  honor  and  power  en 
the  other  hand,  they  strongly  disapprove  of  the  ascetic  morti- 
tification  of  the  body  and  abstinence  from  enjoyment,  and  the 
cynic  contempt  of  all  luxuries  that  beautify  life.  They  say: 
"God's  commandments  are  intended  to  enhance  the  value 
and  enjoyment  of  life,  but  not  to  mar  it  and  make  it  gloomy." 
"  If  thou  hast  the  means,  enjoy  life's  innocent  pleasures."  "  He 
who  denies  himself  the  use  of  wine  is  a  sinner."  "No  one  is 
permitted  to  afflict  himself  by  unnecessary  fasting."  ''The  pious 
fool,  the  hypocrite,  and  the  pharisaic  flagellant  are  destroyers 
of  human  society."  "That  which  beautifies  life  and  gives  it 
vigor  and  strength,  just  as  riches  and  honor,  is  suitable  to  the 
pious,  and  agreeable  to  the  world  at  large," 

Finally,  one  more  remark :  The  Talmud  has  often  been  ac- 
cused of  being  illiberal,  as  if  teaching  its  duties  only  for  Jews 
towards  fellow-believers,  but  not  also  towards  fellow-men  in 
general.  This  charge  is  entirely  unfounded.  It  is  true,  and 
quite  natural,  that  in  regard  to  the  ritual  and  ceremonial  law 
and  practice,  a  distinction  between  Jew  and  Gentile  was  made. 
It  is  also  true  that  we  occasionally  meet  in  the  Talmud  with 
an  uncharitable  utterance  against  the  heathen  world.  But  it 
must  be  remembered  in  what  state  of  moral  corruption  and  deg- 
radation their  heathen  surroundings  were,  at  that  time.  And 
this,  too,  must  be  remembered,  that  such  utterances  are  only 
made  by  individuals  who  gave  vent  to  their  indignation  in 
view  of  the  cruel  persecutions  whose  victims  they  were.  As 
regards  moral  teachings,  the  Talmud  is  as  broad  as  humanity. 
It  teaches  duties  of  man  to  man  without  distinction  of  creed 
and  race.  In  most  of  the  ethical  maxims,  the  terms  Adam 
and  Beriyot,  "man,"  "fellow-men,"  are  emphatically  used;  as: 
"Do  not  despise  any  man."  "Judge  every  man  from  his 
favorable  side,"  "Seek  peace,  and  love  fellow-men."  "He 
who  is  pleasing  to  fellow-men  is  also  pleasing  to  God."  "The 
right  way  for  man  to  choose  is  to  do  that  which  is  honorable 
in  his  own  eyes  {i.  e.,  approved  by  his  conscience)  and  at  the 
same  time  honorable  in  the  eyes  of  his  fellow-men,"  In  some 
instances,  the  Talmud  expressly  reminds  that  the  duties  of 
justice,  veracity,  peacefulness  and  charity  are  to  be  fulfilled 
towards  the  heathen  as  well  as  to  the  Israelites;  as,  "It  is  sinful 
to  deceive  any  man,  be  he  even  a  heathen."      It  is  our  duty  to 


ETHICS.  93 

relieve  the  poor  and  needy,  to  visit  the  sick  and  bury  the  dead 
without  distinction  of  creed  and  race." 

"Thou  sh  alt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself"  (Lev.  xix.,  i8), 
this  is,  said  R,  Akiba,  the  all-embracing  principle  of  the  divine 
law.  But  Ben  Azai  said,  there  is  another  passage  in  Scrip- 
tures still  more  embracing;  it  is  the  passage  (Gen.  v.,  2) :  "This 
is  the  book  of  the  generations  of  man;  in  the  day  that  God 
created  man,  he  made  him  in  the  likeness  of  God."  That  sage 
meant  to  say,  this  passage  is  more  embracing,  since  it  clearly 
tells  us  who  is  our  neighbor ;  not,  as  it  might  be  misunderstood, 
our  friend  only,  not  our  fellow-citizen  only,  not  our  co-religion- 
ist only,  but  since  we  all  descend  from  a  common  ancestor, 
since  all  are  created  in  the  image  and  likeness  of  God,  every 
man,  every  human  being  is  our  brother,  our  neighbor  whom 
we   shall   love   as   ourselves. 

The  liberal  spirit  of  Talmudic  ethics  is  most  strikingly 
evidenced  in  the  sentence:  "The  pious  and  virtuous  of  all 
nations  participate  in  the  eternal  bliss,"  which  teaches  that 
man's  salvation  depends  not  on  the  acceptance  of  certain 
articles  of  belief,  nor  on  certain  ceremonial  observances,  but 
on  that  which  is  the  ultimate  aim  of  religion  namely.  Morality^ 
purity  of  heart  and  holiness  of  life. 


PART  III. 


METHOD. 


The  Method  of  our  Translation  into  English  of  our  Revised 
Text  in  the  "  New  Edition." 

After  having  submitted  the  text  of  the  Talmud  to  a  thor- 
ough review,  and  carried  out  the  corrections  thus  found 
necessary,  we  have  come  down  to  the  conclusion  that  the 
translation  of  the  Talmud  into  English  in  this  corrected  form 
would  be  although  not  one  of  the  easiest,  but  a  possible  task.  * 
Thus  we  made  up  our  mind  to  start  this  task,  having  considered 
as  our  leading  principle  to  carry  it  out  in  a  manner  that  should 
facilitate  the  understanding  of  the  Talmud  to  such  English 
readers  as  are  not  conversant  with  the  Hebrew  text.  There- 
fore we  did  not  care  to  give  the  discussions  of  the  Mishnas, 
Tosephtas  and  Boraithas  which  the  Gemara  quotes  for  the 
purpose  of  a  contradiction,  objection,  or  comparison  with  a 
distinguishing  expression,  as  we  thought  it  is  immaterial  for 
the  English  reader.  The  method  of  the  Gemara,  however,  is  to 
distinguish  the  expressions  for  the  purpose  of  letting  the 
reader  know  whether  the  quotation  is  from  a  Mishna,  To- 
sephta,  or  Boraitha,  or  was  only  said  by  the  Amoraim,  the  ex- 
poimders  of  the  Mishna,  viz. :  (i)  Tenan,  for  the  quotation  of 
a  Mishna;  (2)  Tania,  for  the  quotation  of  a  Tosephta  or  a 
Boraitha;  (3)  Itemar,  for  the  quotation  of  that  which  was  said 
by  the  Amoraim.  Therefore  in  the  first  volume  of  our  editions, 
for  all  the  quotations  we  have  used  only  one  expression,  "we 
have  learned,"  or  "it  was  taught."  However,  after  we  were 
criticised  for  this,  we  also  adopted  a  method  of  distinguishing 
the  quotations,  which  is  printed  in  the  Explanatory  Remarks 
to  each  volume ;  namely :  Remark  i .  For  a  quotation  from  the 
Mishna,  "we  have  learned  in  a  Mishna,"  for  a  Tosephta  or  a 

*  See  letter  of  Dr.  M.  Jastrow  in  the  prospectus  of  our  work,  on  page  lo. 


OUR  METHOD.  95 

Boraitha,  "  we  have  learned  in  a  Tosephta  or  a  Boraitha,"  and 
for  the  sayings  of  the  Amoraim, ' '  it  was  taught. ' '  Thus  have  we 
also  corrected  in  the  second  edition  of  the  first  and  the  fourth 
volumes:  Remark  2.  To  save  space  we  did  not  adopt  the 
method  of  the  German  translators  who  usually  write  question 
and  answer  to  each  paragraph  where  such  is  to  be  found ;  we 
have  indicated  the  question  by  an  interrogation  point,  and  im- 
mediately follows  the  answer  without  being  so  marked.  Com- 
ing to  the  third  explanatory  remark,  in  which  we  say  that  we 
translate  only  the  second,  we  have  to  give  here  this  ex- 
planation at  length,  as  this  treats  about  omissions  from  the 
text  in  the  translation. 

In  our  Hakol,  vol.  VI.,  No.  298,  1885,  in  which  we  an- 
nounced that  we  desire  to  revise  and  correct  the  Talmud  so  as 
to  make  its  translation  possible  into  a  living  language,  we  gave 
some  examples  of  the  omissions  necessary  in  Halakha  and 
Hagada  for  this  purpose.  And  we  dare  say  that  the  examples 
were  favorably  received  by  eminent  students  of  the  Tal- 
mud. As  an  answer  to  another  criticism  in  a  Hebrew  monthly 
in  New  York,  Ner  Hamarobe,  we  wrote  a  long  article  in  the 
same  about  our  method  of  the  omissions  in  Halakha,  claiming 
that  in  reality  we  omit  nothing  of  importance  of  the  whole 
text,  in  the  shape  given  out  by  its  compilers,  and  only  that 
which  we  were  certain  to  have  been  added  by  the  dislikers  of 
the  Talmud  for  the  purpose  of  degrading  it  we  do  omit.  We 
cannot  very  well  translate  the  whole  article  here  for  lack  of 
space  and  time.  We  will  therefore  limit  ourselves  to  pointing 
out  the  omissions  of  Halakha  and  Hagada  with  one  or  two 
examples:  (i)  Omitting  repetitions,  e.g.,  in  Tract  Kethuboth 
72b,  there  is  a  Mishna,  "if  one  betroths  a  woman  with  the 
stipulation  that  she  is  not  subject  to  any  vows,"  and  the  whole 
Mishna  with  its  Gemara  is  repeated  in  Tract  Kedushin  58, 
without  any  change,  and  the  Gemara  to  this  Mishnayoth 
questions  why  the  repetition?  To  which  the  same  answer, 
"it  was  learned  by  the  way,"  is  repeated  in  both  tracts.  In 
our  edition  the  Mishna  will  appear  only  once,  in  Tract  Kedu- 
shin, and  it  is  self-evident  that  the  question  and  the  answer 
of  the  Gemara  falls  off.  However,  the  continuation  which  is 
of  importance  comes  in  the  proper  place.  This  is  concerning 
the  Mishnayoth.     The  discussions  in  the  Gemara  are  repeated 


96  THE  HISTORY  OF  THE  TALMUD. 

sometimes  from  one  to  fifteen  times,  some  of  them  without  any 
change  at  all,  and  some  with  change  of  little  or  no  importance. 
In  our  edition  we  give  the  discussion  only  once,  in  its  proper 
place.  True,  it  is  a  great  difficulty  to  go  over  all  the  repetitions, 
to  mark  the  changes  wherever  they  are,  and  to  consider  the 
matter  thoroughly  as  to  which  is  the  most  proper  place  for 
them.  However,  we  did  not  spare  time  and  careful  study. 
And  according  to  our  ability  we  left  it  at  the  place  which 
seemed  to  us  to  be  proper  and  cancelling  all  other  repetitions.* 
(2)  There  is  a  custom  in  the  text  when  it  brings  a  statement 
from  an  Am.ora  (very  seldom  also  from  a  Tana)  which  is  in 
conflict  with  a  Mishna  or  a  Boraitha,  and  trying  to  reconcile 
them  by  a  long  discussion,  and  after  it  comes  to  the  conclusion 
that  such  a  reconciliation  is  impossible,  it  concludes  that  "if 
such  was  taught  it  must  be  so  and  so,"  contrary  to  the  first 
statement.  We  in  our  edition  translate  only  the  conclusion, 
omitting  the  whole  discussion,  which  partly  or  wholly  is  to 
be  found  elsewhere.  (Examples  of  this  are  given  in  our  above- 
mentioned  article,  and  as  they  are  very  numerous,  we  cannot 
give  them  here).  (3)  Where  there  are  two  versions  in  the 
text  tmder  the  term  Lishna  achrena  (another  version),  or 
Jka  d'amri  (some  say),  or  Waihayith  Aema  (if  you  wish,  we 
may  say),  and  the  second  is  contrary  or  entirely  different  from 
the  first,  we  mostly  give  the  second  only.  However,  we  are 
very  careful  in  omitting  such.  "  (See  our  concluding  words 
in  Vol.  XVn.,  page  8),  and  as  to  the  last  phrase,  Waihayith 
Aema,  which  in  many  places  is  said  twice  or  thrice,  the  reader 
will  find  all  of  them  translated  in  our  translation,  imder  the 
term,  "if  you  wish  it  may  be  said  so,  and  if  you  wish,  it  may 
be  said  so."  (4)  The  reader  will  find  in  our  edition  foot-notes 
stating,  "  transferred  from  tract  so  and  so,"  in  Halakha  as  well 
as  in  Hagada.  We  do  so  when  the  subject  treated  is  inserted 
in  a  place  where  it  is  disconnected  with  the  preceding  and 
following  statement;  however,  there  is  a  special  discussion 
about  the  same  subject  in  another  tract.  (Concerning  Hagada 
we  did  so  in  Tract  Sanhedrin,  transferring  Hagadas  which  have 

*  In  our  edition,  if  such  an  omission  comes  from  that  which  was  already  printed, 
we  mark  it  in  parentheses  or  in  a  foot-note  :  "  repeated  from  tract  or  from  volume  so 
and  so,  page  so  and  so,"  whicli  we  could  not  do  with  the  text  which  was  not  as  yet 
translated. 


OUR  METHOD.  97 

no  connection  in  the  preceding  chapters,  to  the  last  (eleventh) 
chapter  which  is  all  Hagada.  This  is  done  for  the  purpose  of 
preventing  confusion  in  the  reader's  mind,  which,  while  engaged 
in  one  subject,  is  abruptly  confronted  with  a  strange  subject. 
(5)  In  a  very  few  places  we  combine  two  Mishnayoths  which 
are  united  in  the  editions  of  the  separate  Mishnayoths,  but  are 
divided  in  the  Gemara  into  two  or  three  (see  Nedarim  32b  and 
33a),  to  which  the  Gemara  questions  "in  accordance  with  what 
Tana  the  statement  of  this  Mishna  is  given,"  and  answers 
"in  accordance  with  so  and  so,"  and  the  same  it  does  with  the 
divided  Mishna  with  the  same  question  and  answer.  (6)  In 
places  where  the  Gemara  discusses  in  a  long  paragraph,  "how 
was  the  case?  Shall  we  assume  so,  then  such  a  statement  would 
be  in  the  way,  and  if  we  assume  so,  another  statement  of  so  and 
so  would  be  in  the  way,"  etc.  The  conclusion,  however,  is 
explained  clearly  and  nicely.  In  such  cases  we  often  translate 
the  conclusion  only,  omitting  the  discussion,  which  seems  to 
us  to  be  inserted  only  for  the  purpose  of  sharpening  the  mind. 
(However,  we  are  very  careful  with  such  omissions,  and  if  we 
see  in  them  something  of  importance,  we  do  not  omit  them.) 
To  this  point,  may  be  added  then  that  all  the  discussions  usual 
in  the  Gemara  why  the  Tana  or  the  Amora  A  does  not  say  hke  B, 
and  why  B  does  not  say  like  C,  and  C  like  D,  and  then  why  D 
does  not  say  like  C,  B,  and  A ,  etc.  After  then  when  the  reason 
is  given  why  A  does  not  say  like  B,  and  B  like  C,  it  is  again 
asked  why  should  A  not  adopt  the  reason  of  B,  etc.,  etc.  We 
then  give  only  the  questions  and  answers  of  the  first  category, 
viz.,  why  does  not  A  agree  with  B  and  C,  and  B  and  C  with  A. 
We  omit,  however,  the  second  category  of  the  questions  and 
answers  for  not  adopting  the  reasons,  which  in  many  places 
occupy  a  whole  column  and  after  reading  it,  we  do  not  find 
anything  new  or  important,  but  simply  repetitions  after  repeti- 
tions which  confuse  the  mind  of  the  reader  without  doing  any 
good.  (7)  Questions  which  remain  undecided  and  many  of 
them  are  not  at  all  practical  but  only  imaginary,  and  very 
peculiar  too,*  we  omit.  Many  of  such  questions  were  ascribed 
to  the  Amora  Jeremiah,  of  whom  Rabha  said  that,  "When  he 
was  in  Babylonia  he  never  understood  what  the  Rabbis  said." 

*  £.^.,  in02U^ypni  JJnpi'QJ,  the  translation  of  which  we  do  not  care  to  give. 
7 


98  THE  HISTORY  OF  THE  TALMUD. 

When  he  (Jeremiah)  came  to  Palestine  he  expressed  himself 
concerning  the  Babylonian  scholars  thus:  "The  Babylonians 
who  are  dwelling  in  a  dark  land  are  proclaiming  dark  Hala- 
khath."  It  is  the  same  to  us  if  Jeremiah  questioned  the  above- 
mentioned  questions  at  the  time  he  did  not  understand  the 
Rabbis,  or,  as  I.  H.  Weiss  said,  that  he  intended  with  such 
questions  to  ridicule  the  Rabbis,  for  at  any  rate  such  questions 
must  not  be  placed  in  our  edition.  We  have  good  reason  to  say 
that  all  such  questions  were  inserted  in  the  name  of  Jeremiah 
or  other  Amoraim,  by  the  dislikers  of  the  Talmud,  who  were  to 
be  found  from  its  very  beginning,  for  the  purpose  of  ridiculing 
it.  We  cannot  agree  with  Weiss  that  Jeremiah  himself  put 
such  questions,  as  for  a  similar  question :  "  If  it  happened  that 
one  has  put  one  foot  into  the  Sabbath  limit,  and  the  other  foot 
was  still  out  of  it,  may  he  enter  or  not?"  he  was  immediately 
driven  out  from  the  college.  Hence,  since  the  other  questions 
ascribed  to  him  are  much  worse  in  every  respect  than  the  one 
just  mentioned,  is  it  possible  that  he  would  be  listened  to  and 
such  inserted  as  undecided  questions  ?  We  would  also  state  that 
the  above  statement  of  the  dark  Halakhath  by  the  Babylonian 
sages  was  also  put  in  his  mouth  by  the  same  people,  as  we 
cannot  believe  that  such  a  great  Amora  like  Jeremiah  should 
throw  stones  in  the  valley  from  which  he  drank  his  water. 
Finally,  we  will  give  one  example  concerning  Hagadas,  in 
Tract  Zebachin,  pp.  1 13a,  in  the  discussion  whether  the  flood  was 
in  Palestine  or  not,  basing  their  statements  upon  Ecclesiastes, 
"there  is  no  new  thing  under  the  sun,"  i.e.,  no  new  creatures 
were  created  after  the  seven  days  of  creation,  and  as  there  are  to 
be  found  some  creatures  which,  according  to  their  size,  could  not 
enter  into  the  ark  of  Noah,  and  we  see  their  existence,  it  must 
be  concluded  that  the  flood  which  had  destroyed  all  the  crea- 
tures did  not  take  place  in  Palestine,  in  which  such  creatures 
are  to  be  found.  The  opponents  of  this  say  that  the  flood  was 
in  Palestine  also,  and  of  all  kinds  of  the  existing  creatures, 
there  were  some  in  the  ark.  And  when  the  last  were  objected 
to  by  the  existence  of  r'em  (wild-ox),  which,  according  to 
Rabba  b.  b.  Hannah,  the  size  of  its  offspring  of  one  day  was 
equal  to  forty  miles,  hence  it  could  not  in  any  way  be  entered 
in  the  ark,  the  answer  comes  that  its  snout  only  was  in  the  ark, 
and  the  rest  of  the  body  was  swimming  in  the  water. 


OUR   METHOD.  99 

Now  we  would  ask  any  reader  if  it  is  possible  that  such  a 
thing  should  be  said  by  any  sage  of  the  Talmud,  and  especially 
by  Resh  Lakish,  who  was  one  of  the  greatest  Amoraim  of  Pales- 
tine. As  this  Hagada  was  discussed  in  connection  with  a 
Halakha  it  must  not  by  any  means  be  taken  as  allegorical. 
It  is  therefore  more  than  certain  that  one  who  desired  to  make 
the  Talmud  ridiculous  put  in  the  mouths  of  Jochanan  and 
Resh  Lakish  the  discussion  about  the  r'em  with  such  a  ridicu- 
lous answer.  Hence  in  our  translation  it  must  be  omitted. 
There  is  another  one  which  was  put  as  a  question:  "May  the 
high  priest  marry  a  pregnant  virgin  ? ' '  and  to  the  question  ' '  how 
can  a  virgin  be  pregnant?  "  the  answer  comes  that  "  perhaps 
she  became  pregnant  in  a  bath  where  preceding  her  was  a 
man  who  had  left  there  his  seed."  *  We  do  not  believe  that 
any  one  with  common  sense,  and  without  partiality,  can  be 
foiind  who  would  deny  that  such  things  were  inserted  by  the 
Talmud  haters  only  for  the  purpose  of  ridiculing  the  Talmud. 
It  is  self-evident  then  that  in  our  edition  such  and  numerous 
similar  legends  do  not  find  place. 

Concerning  the  translation  itself,  we  translate  almost 
literally  but  not  slavishly.  In  those  places  where  the  text  of 
the  Gemara  can  be  understood  only  with  the  aid  of  Rashi's 
commentary,  we  reproduce  the  sense  without  marking  "  Rashi." 
However,  in  those  places  where  Rashi  adds  something  to 
make  the  text  better  understood,  we  put  Rashi's  commen- 
tary in  parentheses.  See  fifth  remark  on  the  copyrighting; 
but  passages  inserted  from  the  Gemara  itself  we  put  in 
brackets.  Those  passages,  however,  which  are  not  explained 
by  Rashi  or  which  we  found  the  explanation  more  detailed  in 
other  commentaries,  we  translate  according  to  the  latter 's, 
stating  in  the  respective  foot-note  that  it  is  according  to  so  and 
so.  Our  only  desire  was  to  enable  the  English  student,  even 
laymen,  to  imderstand  the  sense  without  difficulty,  in  which, 
according  to  I.  M.  Wise  in  his  review  of  Volume  VIII.,  we 
have  succeeded.  We  may  state  also  that,  though  we  have 
strictly  followed  our  method,  yet  we  were  compelled  in  some 
places  to  deviate  from  the  same.  It  was  also  impossible  for 
us  to  arrange  our  new  edition  in  accordance  with  the  old  edi- 

*  It  seems  to  us  that  such  were  inserted  by  one  against  the  belief  that  the  Virgin 
Mary  had  borne  Jesus. 


loo  THE   HISTORY  OF  THE  TALMUD. 

tion;  based  upon  the  decision  of  Sherira  Gaon  that  it  is  im- 
material in  what  order  the  tracts  should  be  brought,  as  the 
Gemara  itself  states  that  the  consecutive  order  of  the  Mishna 
is  not  always  to  be  taken  seriously.  However,  each  tract  is 
numbered  from  page  i,  so  that  if  the  reader  prefers  binding 
the  tracts  according  to  the  former  order  he  may  do  so.  There 
are,  however,  many  more  points  concerning  our  method  which 
we  omit  for  lack  of  space  and  time,  especially  since  the  method 
is  fully  traced  in  its  main  features. 


CD  jj'cio  c«*  u'i  inn  Tin  •:ns5 

n^  ID'S  ''D  Ci*r  O'^U^I  cm?  DDT  i''1 
Jjft    ?D^D     niS».    l>3-)ft 


ra     jnni  r^i  mo'ln  -jnfti  ?ii>  '57  o'i  fin')  ^h 
/*  "•»  fr  nv)  pcD3  rrri  n:  o.i»  TDS?i  ?5n  d'At  J'm 

9  "''  wftn  'T  iu  pp")!:  nfin  't 
HTM  JW)  (' '  1')  pi'M  fiP'ft7?  inft  Sy  nSyn  oi*  ^n1^e  jnK  cm  ny  ifoy  n'ni 

D'C  )'30'D2  IsS  'NOT  irx  IK  Kin  'SI3T  DK 
'Din-'Bl'''"    -''■'^''     '"""      ^■•'^'^     Kn'mXT.PO'D  lOlS  'SD'n   DKN3T1DK 

w     ?»3C7  n'fii  ')5r  fti-'ips 
asto  «» J  'Jn  i)"?7  •j^-ji  o5n)5i  0^)31 

i/ciB  oe  V50C  f*  "37  i''1  OV  I'r  is 
""'•'^  "  DJ  ?yi3  iM?vftiftpr'2 
->"»..»,  ^^c 'Silk-,  u'ft  Dvri: 

•  TUB  06  ISn 

tax 

'  ?5i9  Kin  vmSiJtPD  nToS  im      ........    _.  ._ 

'J'l'^o  niN  ns2  n  b"  ap:  kSk  '  n'nnn  rrS  B'pn  nna  koSt  lami  131k 
.?      'ND3  n7  rny  '  tann  ;2D'D  moiK  K'ni  tiinn'Jo^D  idik  Kin  "i'bt 


niN^'iO  I^N 


}>«» 


)>« 


ly  ■>  mx  nyi  j^jo'di  pwo  onyn  Sya' 
njnx  'TV  s'i'i  'OT  hti'St  ikd3  nnx 
]inr3K7  nS'DJ  n'yb  jnjn  =•  rh'C^  '"n^yi 
i3n«  m'o  ':d3  N:nnx  b"J'kdi  nJ3T  'j^a; 
13m  m^m  oik  mvoS  ]n2n  >  13m  m'ai 
'Kpi  mo  nS  'D3D 13  rn  nyirp  Kp  myc 
m'Di  131K  m'D  nS  lynca  kS  i3ik  m'oi 
i3mi  131K  m'oS  p:'  '  vdj  m'r:i  13m 
"'  I'nrpc's  m'si  13m  m'oi  i3ik  htd 


s'ciu  r?  ^■'''22  kSk  nwTH  n'7  o'pn  nna  koSii  Kpnioai  Kivn3  kd^S'k 

5"D  OE  i'T'S  f^cya  'Ko  iS  ]nr  nD'En3  maiK  K'ni  nD'Dn3  noiK  Kin  i3i» 

j(p     2"n  'no  7yi  ''jrc  '•  "'^  nsoT  Kin  nD'Dn3  n'S  n'XT  no  731  r\'^y 

BE  '••»  I  K''?B' '  noiK  mm;  ut  tko  '31  n3T  vioc  13  lyTW  na  ny  inanS 

rtiu  (•?  ntr-iB'  niTHM  ncStr  moS  ■p'tt'  na  d'O'  't  ]nnKn  9jnn  nnsi  d'Sjt 

T'B  OE  D';'3C  kd'S;k  htsk  'j^ac  'xo  mow  'i^re?  Njn  'jj; :  nnn  dv  ria"! 

sp     nKVoJiy  Dip-b  'i'aw  kSk  n'Sn^:  nmn'Si  SrS  n'S  yr  'k  moK  Sy3T 

i^eiTdc  ^^  1'^''*''^  ii^moa  'ja "  *  ^r^yny^^  :  'la  ioik  min«  'ai :  moK  la 

j.,5.  jnnx  yirB*  na  ;nn  nnx  di'  i'e)  (Kinir)i3  't3  "ioikj't  o'CBun 

jp  '  B'7po3  ]K3  piTNT  tinpo3  jKa  K'cp  »b  f\ov  3T  noK  mc  ini'?  ''NaiP 

P"»3'i:  nnin'(i  ft3>:;)3)  ma  a^nan  saiia  Skib"  'B^djt  jickt  B'npp3 ':» 

'r»  n"B  kS-t  'iiy  iripas  'xn  'S13  ]ry3  3tiS  dti  Sy  i^k  Sin3  dot  Skie^i 

PJ'fj  O'sSk  KUn   '7  7nK3  Snpn  '73  (3  ftvu)  in3  3'n37  K31t3  7KnB"  '©"£52 
iTM'jhi  (r  c'pn))3<n3Kni  "3K  n'S  nOK  'Xn  'Sl3|3'y3  K?  D'CCI  niKD   B'Sb' 

B'iftV'M   ^^""F"  ^^''  c'lyiB'ni   n'7iie'nni  (=  f-T»)  'iji  o'lSm  D':n3n  i3tj"i 

w  '"D  «3ii3':Kitr"E"D:7  iickt  irnpo  K-.iirro  sao'K  Kin  '3m  ]i'3i  Dn'ny3 

^      ]j'y3  x'jKrSa  ]'ai  Koo'a  Ta 'Sikt  KnT'tr  'nancoi  NDSynivai 

j'V'-si  «^i  Kaia  Skib"  'b^'s:  kStjc  cipo  kov  Kmna  k'jdi  'xn  nia 

9T3is '?» ]i'ya  KS'Sa  i'3i  xoca  pa'Sisn*  xm"!'/  'nanco  x*?!  xoSynivo 

DC  jBDn*?  ri'ien  xS  'Jtr  cnpoa  c'Si  iicxi  B'lpoa  c'^  idx  xai  'xn  'Sia 

np      n'o  'XT  nao  xd'Sj  ?'73o  'a '  o'tr  xjot  'i^x  'X7a  ini'  m3X3  pan 

;•»"•»»  tj'Bf  X7X  n':N03  'Ji'yS  xor  nn  n'S  'di:o''  ]:'y3  nao  xnTax 

MB  ,0^"  wan  in'-iDn  xS  nao  xni'ax  xo'n  i't'Bx  -iox  ion  d"8'  nao  kd'^j 

°  Vp  Sjp  loix  "yff  SaiiitrxT  bjiioix  pcxi  "tji  '  n'n'xno  "jM'nTaxa 

T/hB'Eiu  'onnxS  'nx  vh^i  ^■Sfhv  Sjt  xo'S  'xdxi  ono  loix  'C'Sb'  S;n  'J» 

*^  rp"o  X'nX  '03'JB''3B'a 

ip 


'n?ii7  .v)'n  iiD)  ihi  ii  i'Ttnw  in'o  ?ii))  ipj  ofti 

fin')  fi?i  ]n'3D  '•;7?')7  fipjpp  p  'P'Pt  ?'ii6n') 

ofi  :  0'7»3  •  P'j:73  ;  oiinJ  fiJwa  T3  non  3'i 

D'jn'o      "inii      fiin'P 

''cfi7Up)fipi3T6p"7lft7 
'3a  li'ofi  fiP"")lf)7  ])'7»fi 
i'lftl   C7CB73  'C'7U  b'7B 

iiJsi  IPJ'    o'7ui  i'>n'o 

lft3  •  pB'DI  V"'^^  •  ^'■'S 

•  P')'  :  c'3»'D  i)P3i  o'j: 
P7'n  :  la'ift  b'C  7» 
PTn  7nift  :5i  •  '13  si-h 
'.  nm  m»  jpi)  D51  i37f) 

?fi3  Ofi  •  ?i  -asn  '711)5 
?7U'S  D'il33?  7'3  ?Plft 
Bft  ?3  ?513»  0iu3  0'?S3 

i37f)  P7'»  :  ft'a  P'iu 

7)5ir!  ?t  •  VWJ  P7'»1  13R'51 
7)3lfi  ?I1  ?3n7 131  ?37fi  p 
Pimft  -31  13  53D71  ?376 
OnS  S71'  IJ'f)  isft  i35  l'> 
•1'ni:3D173?»5ipif'3 

'1  ]'^3  ri'i:i3  P'Jii'  cf)> 

3ni71  17lft    '7p  '3?i  15iC 

'JD'O  7nifi  fiia  :  v»i  7P' 
ic)  'jnn  7»ifti    •  u;io 

fi'?1  :  ]P'i  fi>D  'P3i»)i! 
'5»»1    •  Uia  'JJVD  07)51^ 

IP)'  :')PC7Ji'ii)P)C>v) 

1'3550  D^l'l  DP)  ftl?B  •  t>) 
?5    DP)   fii    of)  ft'?  i3ft 

•  UIP?  '))50  :?U7']3'?» 

•  ?D'Dn3 :  13  7i:p  w?c 

•i')'3c''jno-iP'f'P^'' 
7nft  i3  •  -iJ'C  '73  :'j5i3  '5» " ;  e;i« 
u»:':n  •   ?ci:  :iP'3i'*''"' 

li  73^  oft    J)T1    ?n30? 


7110'   73ftD  1'3'  OfilOli3.„,„„- 

?'3n'D   i;ni  'P73d    '>nfo.h*3i 

O'J)'  ?siS37  T7D  ft7nj31 

:  '°fi  qioi  7iip>  ri?3  ]'fi 
13  fti»):  •  Dipn  ':'3c  '03 
:ft'?]?iD  fiKS:-<3ft 

1?ip'57'  6il  •  '13  13'i'-  '73 

'ft?   'ii3  hn)H  oTSJ?  '-'^h  Wi  *i^ 
:  ?cic  ')P  I'P'jpni  ])'ir3  '^' 

i67:'  i3  13C'l  3«P3?'! 
110ftp71D7  i'»ftl-0?'7D3 
C'l  D'7IlDn  T?  ]?'71)  i33 

:?i'nP33DO:i7'))  cpiM 

fiSD'fi   ftl?'5?7  11'31   J'6 

•  finii)  p'5m  :  ft73PDn 
:  0')C?  o'3iu  li  c  PhJ 


P73»  fin'iJ  :o7ini  ?3'i?  fiifi  pi?d  p37  ?'i  '3?'  fei7))-  ?)'»  uni 

pJ-Jj  '?»  1P133  f)ip;5,  ii  C'  PlP'iu  ?»3  »71'  D7ft?C  73fi  OB  l'i33  I"!))  7Dft  01'  P1?C  )P'>  137M?  ft>  13il  'PMB 
^J""'''  7P1    7n  i3i  ?'>  13P'i  IDP?  DD  7'3tn  15'f!1  •  t'73n  6p7'3f)  7'D  'ft7  :  Pl?5  T"^  l^ftl  ?5f)}»'  Of'  ^'\\'> 

^.'";°  'm  7PP  ft?i;  fio's  ?( •  in'7u?  fii :  ppi  f)?3  6'?  ftpiiisi  i7'3 1'b  b  oft  ?')f)»3  ')i'ui  ftni'  'cd  'P3fr 

n  fO-)  "B  i^"'   ^^'-51  "^"Pi    ''3lfi^  P^  "^■'Wi      fiic  ilcA7  ij7  1?!  1P573?3  *  7!5lf!  :  I'73ri  ftl?C  *  \Cp  )i7  :  0'!^' 

fiic  '73  ?pfi'Jr)i  6i?  i;3  ?pfi  7nift  D'fii  'pftin  ?7'3ft  •  opd  7rif)  ':'is  :  ?')»'D  JP'I  »7>?ii;'  ')3 


.'?,., 


j"»a '"»  B 


^Cfj 


:  l'7.7f'0  i  J7  WIS  1'3'1  fi3?  >i7  i»  731^?     11»S 


PART  IV. 


CRITICISM. 


In  our  table  of  contents  to  this  history  announced  in  the 
prospectus  issued  in  1897,  we  have  inserted  "A  Reply  to  some 
Criticism."  This  would  be  in  place  if  this  history  had  been 
published  at  the  time  when  the  criticism  was  still  new.  Now, 
however,  after  the  lapse  of  six  years,  during  which  new  proper 
criticism  has  not  appeared,  a  reply  to  what  is  almost  forgotten 
would  be  out  of  place.  We,  however,  cannot  restrain  our- 
selves to  say  a  few  words  about  criticism  in  general,  and  about 
our  edition  in  special.  In  our  opinion,  true  criticism  must 
drive  only  to  the  point,  i.e.,  the  critic  has  to  show  the  author 
his  mistakes  and  errors  in  such  and  such  point,  page  or  para- 
graph, based  upon  undoubted  or  uncontradictory  evidence,  or 
common  sense,  taking  care,  however,  to  avoid  partiality  and 
personality.  Otherwise  it  is  not  criticism  but  attack.  In  our 
introduction  to  Vol.  VII.,  we  expressed  our  anxiety  to  face  a 
true  criticism,  which  has  not  appeared  thus  far  as  aught  we 
know.  As  what  concerns  the  criticism  which  appeared  after 
the  issue  of  the  first  volume,  the  same  may  be  classified  in 
three  categories : 

(a)  Personality  against  the  reviser  of  the  first  volimie  or 
against  ourself .  (6)  Opposition  on  the  part  of  those  who  dis- 
liked for  some  reason  the  idea  of  the  Talmud  being  translated  In 
any  living  language,  no  matter  which ;  and  {c)  the  views  ex- 
pressed by  ignoramuses  in  all  that  concerns  the  Talmud  and  its 
study.  It  seems  to  us  that  a  discussion  would  not  persuade ' 
either  of  the  three  categories,  as  they  indulged  only  in  attacks 
lacking  real  evidence,  nay,  even  a  basis  of  probability  on  which 
they  might  have  rested ;  e.g. ,  there  were  some  who  claimed  that 
our  edition  is  not  scientifically  arranged,  our  omissions  mutila- 
ting the  whole  text  at  large ;  but  these  did  not  care  to  give  any 
example,  which  might  have  served  them  as  evidence. 


loa  THE  HISTORY  OF  THE  TALMUD. 

Now,  concerning  the  scientific  point  of  view,  we  hold  that  no 
translation  of  the  Talmud  could  answer  the  requirements  of  a 
scientific  work,  as  the  Talmud  itself  is  nothing  but  a  chaotic 
mass  lacking  any  scientific  order,  and  should  a  translator 
follow  scientific  tracks,  the  result  of  his  work  would  be  a 
treatise  on,  but  not  a  translation  of,  the  Talmud.  And,  as 
what  regards  the  so-called  mutilations,  since  no  example  was 
given,  we  cannot  enter  any  discussion  as  to  them.  Our  method 
was  already  clearly  explained  in  a  lengthy  article  in  Hebrew, 
out  of  which  it  might  have  appeared  that  our  method  consists 
in  these  very  mutilations,  and  if  after  that  anybody  accuses 
us  of  mutilating  the  text  we  have  nothing  to  say  but  let  him 
try  to  invent  a  better  method. 

However,  regarding  the  criticism  of  the  spelling  of  some 
ancient  names,  which  we  were  not  very  careful  about,  and 
also  as  to  the  distinguishing  of  the  quotations  from  divers 
Mishnas,  Boraithas,  etc.,  we  have  gratefully  admitted  its  truth 
and  accordingly  corrected  in  the  succeeding  volumes  as  well  as 
in  the  second  edition  of  the  first  volume,  as  it  can  be  seen  in  our 
answer  to  these  criticisms  in  the  American  Hebrew,  July 
29,  1896,  which  the  critic  himself  admitted  thereafter  that 
it  was  a  gentlemanly  answer,  though  it  could  not  induce  him 
to  deny  his  policy.  And  what  concerns  other  criticisms  of 
the  above  categories  we  may  conscientiously  say  that  they 
were  not  worthy  of  any  consideration  whatsoever,  as  their 
basis  was  the  very  criticism  of  this  prominent  scholar,  who  en- 
couraged them  to  attack,  to  scold,  and  to  make  use  of  any  ex- 
pression which  is  fit  to  disqualify  the  work  at  large  in  the  eyes 
of  its  supporters.*     As  an  evidence  to  this  latter  statement  we 

*  To  our  great  sorrow  we  must  confess  that  they  have  succeeded  in  harming  us 
both  materially  and  morally.  The  material  harm  was  that,  as  an  immediate  result 
of  their  attacks,  an  enormous  amount  of  financial  support  had  been  refused  to  us. 
The  moral  harm  they  caused  us  was  that,  being  at  loss  of  the  necessary  funds,  we 
could  not  submit  our  work  to  competent  men  for  revising,  and  so  the  whole  gigantic 
labor  of  issuing  all  which  has  been  printed  so  far  was  carried  out  only  through  our 
own  endeavors,  to  which  no  assistance,  moral  or  material,  was  given  us  on  the  part 
of  anybody.  And  with  all  our  modesty  we  may  say  that,  had  we  not  been  so  energetic 
and  strong-minded,  our  attackers  would  have  succeeded  in  destroying  the  whole  plan 
and  annihilating  the  publication  of  our  work.  A  great  authority  and  most  influential 
man  in  this  city,  seeing  our  struggles  and  troubles  after  we  had  already  issued  several 
volumes,  offered  us  $6,000  as  financial  aid  for  the  duration  of  three  years,  so  as  to 
complete  the  translation  in  this  period  and  to  submit  to  him  afterwards  the  whole 
manuscript,  for  which  he  was  willing  to  take  the  trouble  upon  himself  to  find  a  pub- 


CRITICISM.  103 

beg  to  quote  the  editorial  of  The  American  Israelite,  Septem- 
ber 19,  1901, 

"The  complaint  voiced  through  the  Jewish  press  that  Rod- 
kinson's  translation  of  the  Talmud  is  not  receiving  the  support 
which  its  merits  deserve  is  very  much  in  the  nature  of  self- 
accusation.  The  truth  is  that  the  great  undertaking  has  never 
been  able  to  overcome  the  onslaught  originally  made  upon  it. 
Recognizing  its  great  value,  the  late  editor  of  this  paper  gave 
to  the  work  from  its  initial  conception  his  earnest  encourage- 
ment and  support,  which,  instead  of  being  seconded  by  the 
Jewish  press  and  rabbinate,  was  met  by  a  torrent  of  abuse  and 
misrepresentation.  Now  that  his  foresight  has  been  justified, 
and  the  former  detractors  of  the  work  complain  that  Jewish 
support  is  lacking,  they  have  a  chance  to  contemplate  their  own 
doings.  If  the  example  set  by  the  late  editor  of  this  paper 
had  been  emulated  instead  of  neglected  and  derided,  there 
would  not  now  be  occasion  to  charge  the  Jewish  public  with 
want  of  appreciation. 

"  It  was  not  among  Jews  alone  that  the  insensate  opposition 
to  Dr.  Rodkinson's  difficult  project  was  met  with.  As  is  per- 
fectly natural,  the  non-Jewish  press  depended  largely  upon 
Jewish  sources  for  their  information  in  regard  to  the  work,  and 
therefore  reflected  the  unfavorable  opinions  expressed  by  sup- 
posed Jewish  authorities.     As  soon  as  unbiased  reviewers  were 

Usher  who  would  undertake  to  publish  it  upon  the  plan  of  royalty.  The  above 
amount  he  calculated  to  obtain  of  three  philanthropists,  two  Gentiles  and  one  Hebrew. 
We,  however,  having  conjectured  who  the  Hebrew  philanthropist  might  be,  told  him 

that  if  he  meant  Mr. ,  he  was  mistaken,  for  he  is  already  influenced  by  the 

critics  and  therefore  would  not  support  this  work.  In  fact,  it  was  so,  and  the  pro- 
fessor was  reduced  to  drop  the  whole  plan. 

This  case  was  not  the  only  one.  There  was  another  professor  who  promised  to 
subscribe  for  twenty  sets  of  our  work  for  the  purpose  of  distributing  them  among  his 
friends.     It  was  again  the  critic  that  prevented  him  from  doing  so. 

The  Jewish  Publication  Society  of  America,  whose  aim  it  is  to  help  authors  in 
issuing  their  works,  and  who  are  constantly  doing  so,  have  not  assisted  us  with  a  sin- 
gle cent,  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  all  the  above-mentioned  critics  but  one  had  not  only 
retracted  from  and  moderated  their  first  statements,  but  afterwards  wrote  favorably 
about  our  translation  in  different  periodicals  and  private  letters,  as  can  be  seen  from 
the  press  comments,  which  will  be  placed  on  the  last  pages  of  this  work. 

One  cannot  imagine  our  struggles  and  troubles  at  each  issue  of  the  volumes,  and 
it  is  only  our  ideal  that  the  edition  of  the  Talmud  should  be  completed  which  spurs 
us  to  continue.  We  rely  upon  the  divine  help,  that  it  will  not  cease  to  grant  us 
further  on  the  assistance  which  it  has  lent  us  to  the  completion  of  the  two  large  sec- 
tions issued  by  us. 


I04  THE  HISTORY  OF  THE  TALMUD. 

made  aware  of  its  merits,  they  changed  their  unfavorable  atti- 
tude, but  it  was  too  late  to  overcome  the  prejudice  created  by 
the  first  impression.  To-day  the  non-Jewish  press  recognizes 
thai  it  was  misled  into  antagonizing  the  work,  and  speaks  of  it  as 
a  most  important  contribution  to  the  world's  stock  of  knowledge, 
but  it  certainly  must  be  disheartening  to  its  editor  and  his  pub- 
lishers to  convince  possible  purchasers  that  the  authorities 
upon  which  they  depend  for  information  have  experienced  a 
change  of  heart.  It  is  an  old  story,  that  with  one  moment's 
start  a  lie  will  not  be  overtaken  by  its  refutation  in  a  thousand 
years.  It  is  impossible  to  wholly  right  the  wrong,  but  at  least 
amends  can  be  made  by  those  who  through  ignorance  or  malice 
misrepresented  Dr.  Rodkinson's  great  undertaking,  and  it  is 
not  by  taking  a  fling  at  the  Jews  that  this  is  to  be  accomplished. 
It  is  safe  to  classify  the  Jews  as  average  human  beings,  who  are 
neither  better  nor  worse  than  the  rest  of  mankind,  and  taking 
them  as  such,  the  proportion  among  them  who  encourage  Jew- 
ish letters  will  not  be  found  to  fall  below  what  can  rightly  be 
expected.  This  statement,  however,  does  not  include  the 
Jews  who  have  been  blessed  with  superabundant  riches,  for  the 
members  of  that  class  have  not  in  this  country  given  to  Jewish 
literature  the  same  support  so  common  among  the  men  of 
wealth  who  enable  the  literature  of  Christianity  to  be  spread 
broadcast  over  the  world." 


APPENDIX  TO  CHAPTER  II.,  page  24 

We  have  to  repeat  again  that  we  do  not  see  any  reason  why  the 
more  prominent  sages  should  not  be  mentioned.  To  quote  all  of 
those  omitted,  both  of  Tanaim  and  Amoraim,  with  the  sources 
where  they  are  taken  from  would  take  a  whole  volume  and  we  also 
would  not  like  to  devise  an  entirely  new  arrangement  contrary  to 
Strack,  Mielziner  and  others  whose  authority  we  respect.  However, 
we  cannot  refrain  from  calling  the  attention  of  students  to  the  fact 
that  after  a  good  deal  of  deliberation  and  search  we  cannot  find  any 
reason  why  the  most  prominent  sages  should  not  be  placed  among 
the  founders  of  the  Talmud. 

Take,  for  instance,  Abtulmus,  who  is  mentioned  in  Tract  Erubin, 
Chapter  III.,  Mishna  4,  who,  according  to  R.  Jose,  testified  in  the 
name  of  five  elders,  etc.,  and  who  is  also  mentioned  several  times  in 
the  Gemara  and  is  not  identical  with  Abtalyon  who  was  in  an 
earlier  time.  Take  also  Baba  b'  Buta  who,  was  in  the  time  of  Herod 
the  Great,  and  who  was  a  disciple  of  Shamai  and  cannot  be  counted 
of  his  school  as  he  was  of  those  who  were  troubling  themselves  to 
establish  the  Halakha  in  accordance  with  the  school  of  Hillel  and 
whom  the  Talmud  put  up  as  an  example  of  morahty.  (See 
Weiss  "Geschichte  der  jiidichen  Tradition,"  Vol.  I.,  p.  168. 

We  also  do  not  find  among  them  Elazai  b.  Arach,  whom  we  have 
added,  the  distinguished  one  of  the  five  disciples  of  R.  Johanan  b. 
Zakkai,  and  also  no  mention  of  b.  Bag  Bag,  b.  Haij  Haij,  b.  Buchre, 
and  Papus  b.  Jehudah.  The  contemporaries  of  these  were  Jo- 
hanan b.  Zakkai,  Jehudah  b.  Bathyra,  etc.,  etc.,  all  of  whom  are 
mentioned  in  the  Mishnayoth  as  great  authorities,  who  according 
to  our  opinion  ought  to  be  placed  among  the  Tanaim,  founders  of  the 
Mishna. 

There  is  mentioned  by  Strack  and  Perferkowitz  (the  latter 
counts  Elasur  b.  Arach  and  Simon  Shezur),  Ben  Patturo  or  Ben 
Pature,  who  is  to  be  found  only  once  in  the  whole  Talmud, 
namely  in  Baba  Metzia,  p.  149.  Let  us  quote  his  statement  :  "If 
two  were  on  the  road  (in  the  desert) ,  and  one  of  them  has  a  pitcher 
of  water  which  is  sufficient  for  one  only  until  he  may  reach  an  in- 
habited place,  but  if  both  would  use  it  both  would  die  before 
reaching  a  village,  and  Ben  Patturo  lectured  that  in  such  a  case  it 


io6  APPENDIX. 

is  better  that  both  should  drink  and  die  than  that  one  should  wit- 
ness the  death  of  his  comrade."  This  teaching  seems  to  us  to  be  of 
the  Essenes  as  it  is  not  in  accordance  with  the  Talmudical  spirit, 
and  as  his  own  name  is  not  known  (there  are  many  who  were  named 
after  their  fathers  only  as  Ben  Dama,  b'  Bathyra,  b' Azai,  but  their 
own  name  however  is  known)  we  are  inclined  to  say  that  he  lived  at 
a  much  earlier  time  and  it  should  read  Ben  Pantira,  who  was  in  his 
youth  a  disciple  of  Jehoshua  b'  Prachyah  *  and  it  would  not  be  sur- 
prising that  his  lecture  was  stated  in  his  name  as  so  it  was  done  with 
Elisha  b'  Abbuyah  in  Tract  Aboth,  Chapter  IV.,  notwithstanding 
that  thereafter  he  separated  himself  from  his  colleagues  and  was 
named  Acker. 

*  i.e.,  Jesu  b.  Joseph  Pantira,  who  is  usually  so  mentioned  in  Tosephta  (Chnlin, 
V.  32),  jind  in  the  Palestinian  Talmud  several  times.  In  some  places  Jesu  b.  Pantira, 
and  in  other  places  Jesu  Pantira  and  also  Ben  Pantira.  Concerning  Jehoshua  b. 
Prachii<  who  was  his  teacher,  according  to  the  Talmud,  we  are  inclined  to  say  there 
were  two  Jehoshuas  rather  than  to  claim  that  there  were  two  Jesuses. 


PART  V. 

THE    ARRANGEMENT     OP    THE    SIX    SECTIONS    IN    THEIR     SIXTY 

TRACTS. 

Section  Zeraim  (Plants)  contains  eleven  tractates,  viz.: 
Berachoth  (Benediction),  supplied  with  Gemara,  both  Pales- 
tinian and  Babylonian,  Peah  (Corner  tithe) ,  Dmai  (Uncertain), 
Khilayim  (Mixtures),  Shebiit  (Sabbatical  year),  Therumoth 
(Heave  offering),  Maasheroth  (Tithes),  Maaser  Sheni  (Second 
tithes),  Chala  (Dough),  Orla  (Fruit  trees  during  the  first 
three  years),  and  Biccurim  (First  fruit),  all  of  which  are  not 
supplied  with  Babylonian  Gemara.  The  laws  of  all  of  them 
concern  Palestine  at  that  time  the  Temple  was  in  existence. 

Section  Nashim  (Women)  contains  seven  tracts,  viz. :  Yeba- 
moth  (Levirate  marriage),  Khethuboth  (Marriage  contracts), 
Nedarim  (Vows),  Nazir  (Nazarite),  Sota  (Suspicious  women), 
Gittin  (Divorces),  Kiddushin  (Betrothals). 

Section  Kodashim  (Holiness),  eleven  tracts:  Zebachim 
(Sacrifices),  Menachoth  (Meal-offering),  Chulin  (Profane 
things),  Bechoroth  (First  born),  Arachin  (Estimations),  The- 
mura  (Exchange),  Kherithoth  (Excisions),  Me-ila  (Trespass), 
Thamid  (Daily  offerings),  Middoth  (Measurements)  and  Kin- 
nim  (Birds'  nests).  All  the  above  tracts,  besides  Chulin, 
treat  about  sacrifices,  offerings  used  at  the  time  of  the  Tem- 
ple. Chulin,  however,  speaks  of  the  laws  of  slaughtering 
and  of  the  meats  that  may  be  used. 

Section  Teharoth  (Purification),  twelve  tracts,  viz. :  Khe- 
lim  (Vessels),  Ohaloth  (Tents),  Nego-im  (Leprosy),  Parah 
(Heifer),  Teharoth  (Purification),  Mikvaoth  (Wells),  Nidda 
(Menstruous) ,  Mach-shirim  (Preparations),  Zabim  (Running 
issues),  Tebul-Yom  (Legal-day  bath),  Yadayim  (Hands),  and 
Uktzin  (Stalks  of  fruit) ;  to  all  of  them,  except  Nidda,  there  is 
no  Gemara,  for  the  reason  stated  above  (Vol.  IL,  p.  42).  The 
tract  Nidda,  however,  treats  about  women  menstruous  and 
all  the  laws  of  sexual  intercourse. 

Section  Moed  (Festivals),  twelve  tracts  (in  our  Edition  13), 
and  Section  Nezikin  (Jurisprudence),  ten  tracts  (in  our  Edi- 
tion 13),  which  are  already  published  in  the  English  language. 
We  give,  for  the  benefit  of  readers,  the  following  synopsis: 


SECTION   MOED   (FESTIVALS). 

SYNOPSIS   OF  SUBJECTS 

OF 

VOLUME  l.~TRACT  SABBATH. 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

Several  requests  have  been  received  by  the  translator  that  an  index 
should  be  made  to  the  volumes  of  the  Talmud,  as  is  customary  with  alf 
modern  works.  It  would  be  an  utter  impossibility  to  give  a  complete  index 
of  everything  contained  in  the  Talmud.  Were  it  like  other  scientific  works, 
which  treat  each  subject  separately,  this  could  easily  be  done  ;  but  with 
the  Talmud  it  is  different.  On  one  page  many  different  subjects  may  be 
discussed,  and  again  a  single  subject  may  occupy  several  pages.  The 
Talmud,  therefore,  has  never  had  an  index,  not  even  the  portions  which 
have  been  translated. 

After  careful  examination  of  the  volumes,  page  by  page,  it  has  been  de- 
cided to  make  a  synopsis,  i.e.,  to  give  briefly  the  heads  of  the  discussions 
and  conversations  upon  each  Mishna,  indicating  the  page  where  the 
Mishna  is  to  be  found,  and  the  Gemara  of  each  one,  which  serves  as  a 
commentary.  By  this  the  reader  should  be  able  to  refer  to  what  he  desires 
to  know. 

A  synopsis  is  therefore  given  of  every  Mishna  which  discusses  a  single 
subject,  with  its  accompanying  Gemara  ;  but  when  several  short  Mishnas 
cover  the  same  subject,  a  single  synopsis  is  given  of  the  whole,  including 
the  Gemara  of  each  one;  and  where  a  chapter  is  short  and  has  but  one 
subject,  a  synopsis  of  the  whole  chapter  is  made,  without  dividing  it  into 
Mishnas. 

This  is  the  best  that  can  be  done,  and  it  is  hoped  that  readers  wil'  find 
it  satisfactory. 

CHAPTER  I. 

Mishna  /.  Regulations  concerning  prohibited  and  permitted  acts  of 
transfer  over  the  dividing  line  of  adjoining  premises  and  the  area  of  such 
premises ;  the  classification  of  premises  ;  in  which  premises  transfer  is  per- 
mitted ;  laws  of  transfer  of  labor,  when  committed  by  the  joint  efforts  of  two 
persons  ;  transfer  from  and  to  doorsteps,  ......         1-13 

Mishna  //.  Whether  work  may  be  commenced  at  the  approach  of  the 
time  for  afternoon  prayer ;  what  kind  of  work  is  referred  to  ;  how  a  man 
should  pray  ;  what  he  must  wear  ;  when  he  may  eat  his  midday  meal ;  the 

xxix 


XXX  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

Informing-  of  the  bestowal  of  gifts  ;  Sabbath  as  a  valuable  gift  of  God 
and  its  origin  ;  various  legends  of  Rabha  bar  Ma'hassia  in  the  name  of 
Rabh 13-19 

MiSHNA  ///.  Tailors  and  other  artisans  are  not  permitted  to  go  out 
with  their  tools  on  Friday  near  eventide.  Treats  also  on  whether  one  may 
read  by  lamplight  on  the  Sabbath  ;  the  laws  of  visiting  the  sick  ;  what 
prayers  may  be  offered  for  the  sick,  ......         19-32 

MiSHNAS  /v.  TO  Vl.  How  the  eighteen  famous  ordinances  were  in- 
stituted in  the  attic  of  Hananya  ben  Hyzkiyah  ben  Gorion,  and  by  whom  the 
Roll  of  Fasts  was  written.  Which  acts  of  labor  may  be  commenced  on 
Friday  eve  ;  concerning  labor  which  is  accomplished  without  assistance  of 
man  on  Sabbath  ;  laws  concerning  labor  which  is  accomplished  without 
assistance  of  man  on  Sabbath  ;  laws  concerning  work  given  to  Gentiles. 
Narrative  of  R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel  concerning  how  his  father's  house 
dealt  with  Gentile  clothes-washers.  On  transmission  of  letters  and  journey- 
ing on  ships  on  the  Sabbath.  Regulations  pertaining  to  the  roasting  of 
meats  and  baking  of  bread  before  the  Sabbath  ;  the  sacrifices  at  the  Temple 
on  the  Passover.     Appendix  to  p.  8, 22-30 

CHAPTER    II. 

MiSHNAS  /.  AND  //.  Permissible  and  non-permissible  oils  and  wicks  for 
lamps  on  the  Sabbath  and  'Hanukah  (feast  of  Maccabbees) ;  the  law  of  the 
'Hanukah  lights  ;  'Hanukah  and  the  miracle  ;  the  duration  of  'Hanukah  ; 
benedictions  to  be  said  on  that  festival  ;  the  reward  of  those  who  keep  the 
Sabbath-light  commandment  ;  the  reward  of  those  who  esteem  scholarship. 
The  second  Mishna  treats  on  :  What  balsams  may  and  may  not  be  used 
both  for  light  and  for  the  person  on  the  Sabbath  ;  a  narrative  of  a  woman 
who  hated  her  daughter-in-law  ;  who  may  be  called  a  rich  man,    .         31-42 

MiSHNAS  ///.  TO  V.  What  wicks  made  from  parts  of  trees  may  be 
used  ;  whether  broken  vessels  may  be  used  for  fuel  on  a  biblical  feast  day; 
what  may  be  done  with  the  residue  of  oil  left  in  a  lamp;  practical  laws  of 
egg-shells  and  whether  chairs  may  be  dragged  on  the  floor  on  Sabbath. 
The  different  opinions  of  R.  Eliezer  and  R.  Aqiba  concerning  the  defile- 
ment of  a  piece  of  cloth,  and  if  it  is  allowed  to  make  a  wick  of  it.  What 
happened  with  R.  Jehudah  in  the  Hall  of  Beth  Nitza  and  with  Abhin  of 
Ziphoris,  who  committed  certain  acts  which  were  not  allowed,  in  the 
presence  of  the  sages 42-48 

MiSHNA  V/.  Whether  a  light  may  be  extinguished  on  Sabbath  either  for 
fear  of  accident  or  to  afford  rest  for  the  sick  ;  the  question  asked  R.  Tan'hum 
of  Nav  and  his  replying  sermon  ;  the  soul  being  called  the  "  Light  of  God  "  ; 
the  intended  concealment  of  the  Book  of  Proverbs  and  Ecclesiastes  ;  the 
Shckhina  (divine  presence)  not  resting  with  a  man  except  through  his  joy  of 
having  performed  a  good  deed  ;  Rabha's  custom  when  commencing  his  lec- 
tures to  his  disciples.  R.  Gamaliel's  sermon  and  answers  to  the  disciple  who 
derided  him.  The  story  of  the  three  proselytes  rejected  by  Shamai  and 
accepted  by  Hillel.  "What  is  hateful  to  thee,  do  not  unto  thy  neighbor; 
that  is  tlie  law.  All  else  is  but  a  commentary."  The  six  sections  of  the 
Mishna  arc  inferred  from  a  biblical  passage.    The  first  thing  asked  of  a  man 


SYNOPSIS   OF    SUBJECTS.  xxxi 

wnen  standing  before  the  divine  judgment  is,  "Hast  thou  traded  in  good 
faith  ?"      The  "  Fear  of  the  Lord  "  is  the  chief  principle.      The  wicked  fear 

death,  although  mentioning  it  every  day, 48-53 

MiSHNAS  VII.  AND  VIII.  The  sins  of  women  are  passed  upon  when 
confined  in  childbirth,  the  sins  of  men  while  in  danger.  A  good  deed  is 
committed  through  the  agency  of  a  meritorious  person  and  a  bad  deed 
through  the  agency  of  the  wicked  ;  all  who  are  about  to  die  must  repent  of 
their  sins  ;  the  defenders  of  man  before  divine  judgment  are  repentance  and 
good  deeds.  A  thousandth  part  of  one  defender  saves  a  man  from  the 
danger  threatened  him  by  a  thousand  accusers.  The  penalties  imposed 
upon  man  for  hating  without  cause  ;  for  robbery  ;  for  perverting  or  pro- 
crastinating justice  ;  for  destroying  the  law  ;  for  murder  ;  for  adultery  ;  for 
idolatry;  for  using  obscene  language.  The  story  of  R.  Simeon  ben  Johai, 
who  remained  in  a  cave  for  twelve  years.  The  causes  leading  up  to  his 
concealment  in  the  cave  ;  his  adventures  after  leaving  the  cave.  The  three 
things  to  be  said  by  a  man  in  his  house  on  Friday  eve  ;  how  they  are  to  be 
said  ;  when  twilight  takes  place  ;  how  many  signals  of  the  horn  were  blown 
to  remind  the  people  of  the  advent  of  the  Sabbath,  Is  there  a  difference 
between  a  shophar  and  a  fife  ?, 53-62 

CHAPTER   III. 

MiSHNAS  /.  AND  //.  In  which  hearths  or  ovens  victuals  may  be  depos- 
ited on  the  Sabbath.  The  opinions  of  the  school  of  HiUel  and  the  school  of 
Shamai  concerning  the  same  ;  the  different  opinions  upon  the  teaching  of 
the  two  schools.  Victuals  having  once  been  taken  out  of  an  oven,  would  it 
be  allowed  to  replace  them  ?  The  law  concerning  a  pot  of  victuals  which 
had  been  forgotten  and  was  thus  cooked  on  the  Sabbath.  Usages  of  R.  Jose 
on  his  way  to  Zipporah,  and  of  R.  Jehudah  Hanassi  when  travelling.  A 
narrative  of  R.  Ishai  while  in  the  presence  of  R.  Hyya  the  Great.  The  differ- 
ence in  law  between  an  oven  and  a  hearth ;  also,  difference  arising  from 
an  oven  or  a  hearth  being  heated  with  straw  or  with  wood,  etc.,    .         63-67 

MiSHNAS  ///.  TO  VII.  Customs  of  the  people  of  Tiberias  relative  to  the 
heating  of  a  pitcher  of  cold  water.  Is  it  allowed  to  place  a  pitcher  of  cold 
water  into  one  filled  with  hot  water  in  order  to  heat  the  water  ;  or,  vice 
versa,  in  order  to  heat  the  water  ?  May  one  wash  his  body  in  the  warm 
water  of  the  Tiberius  springs  or  in  water  warmed  on  the  Sabbath  eve  ? 
May  the  entire  body  be  washed  at  once  or  each  member  separately  ?  Cus- 
'^oms  in  a  bath-house.  Are  sweat-baths  permitted  on  the  Sabbath  ? 
Incidents  occurring  in  the  bath-house  of  the  city  of  B'ni  Brak.  Why 
sweat-baths  were  prohibited.  May  one  warm  himself  by  a  hearth-fire? 
Is  bathing  one's  self  in  a  washtub  and  anointing  one's  self  with  oils  per- 
mitted on  the  Sabbath  "i  Usages  of  Rabbi  Jehudah  Hanassi  in  this  matter. 
Is  swimming  in  a  lake  permitted  on  the  Sabbath  ?  Incidents  attending  R. 
Zera's  witnessing  R.  Abuhu's  swimming  in  a  lake  on  a  Sabbath.  Concerning 
the  permissibility  of  pouring  cold  water  in  a  muliar  or  antikhi,  the  fuel  ot 
which  had  been  removed  ;  Dr  in  a  kettle,  the  hot  water  of  which  had  been 
poured  out,  and  the  prescribed  quantity  of  such  water.  Concerning  the 
addition  of  spiqes  to  a  pot  of  victuals.  Concerning  the  permissibility  of 
olacin^  a  vessel  under  a  burning  lamp  to  receive  its  dripping  oil  or  falling 


xxxii  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

sparks,  and  the  placing-  of  a  vessel  under  a  hen  to  receive  the  egg.  Ordi- 
nance relating  to  a  corpse  lying  in  the  sun.  If  it  is  allowed  to  save  a 
corpse  from  fire.  Prayers  to  be  offered  on  Sabbath  over  the  dead.  The 
accordance   of    permission   to   save   a   corpse   from   conflagration    on    the 

Sabbath, 67-74 

MiSHNAS  V/JI,  AND  LY.  Concerning  the  handling  of  new  and  old  lamps 
on  the  Sabbath.  Ordinances  relative  to  a  bed  which  had  been  designated  for 
the  purpose  of  holding  money  on  the  Sabbath.  The  permissibility  of  handling 
a  burning  'Hanukah  lamp  for  fear  of  the  Persians.  The  law  of  Muktza. 
The  ordinance  relative  to  handling  a  lamp  on  Sabbath  and  the  dictum  of 
Resh  Lakish  in  Zidon.  The  ordinance  concerning  the  nuptial  couch.  Actioa 
of  R.  Malkia  while  the  guest  of  R.  Simlai  and  R.  Abuhu  at  the  house  of 
R.  Joshua  ben  Levi  and  R.  Johanan.  The  experience  of  R.  Avia,  who  came 
to  the  house  of  Rabha  and  sat  on  Rabha's  bed  without  removing  his  dirty 
shoes.  Questions  put  to  him  by  Rabha,  and  his  replies.  The  law  of  a  prin- 
cipal prohibited  act.  What  R.  Hanina  did  with  a  folding-bed  that  had 
become  unfastened  on  a  feast  day, 74-82 

CHAPTER   IV. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  IV.  What  substances  may  be  used  for  the  preserving  of 
victuals.  Rabba's  and  R.  Zera's  upbraiding  of  a  slave  of  the  Exilarch,  while 
sojourning  in  the  latter's  house.  Concerning  the  replacing  of  feathers  in  a 
pillow.  Concerning  the  opening  of  a  bunghead  in  a  barrel  and  the  making 
of  a  neckband  in  a  shirt.  Concerning  the  permissibility  of  depositing  vict- 
uals in  cloth  and  shorn  wool  intended  for  market.  The  derivation  of  the 
thirty-nine  principal  acts  of  labor  on  the  Sabbath  from  the  thirty-nine  times 
"  work  "  is  mentioned  in  the  Pentateuch.  The  law  concerning  branches  of 
trees  which  were  bound  together  to  be  used  for  fuel  and  were  subsequently 
intended  for  sitting  upon.  R.  Hanina  ben  Aqiba's  action  in  such  a  case. 
The  ordinance  relating  to  the  use  of  soap-powder  and  soap  on  the  Sabbath. 
The  necessity  of  washing  one's  hands  and  feet  for  the  sake  of  the  Creator. 
What  is  to  be  done  with  a  pot  that  had  not  been  covered  on  the  eve  of 
Sabbath  ?  The  decision  of  Ishmael  in  the  matter  in  the  presence  of  Rabbi. 
The  mutual  respect  of  the  sages  for  one  another,  R.  Na'hman's  statement 
to  Doen  his  servant, .         83-90 

CHAPTER  V. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  ///.  What  gear  animals  may  go  out  in  on  the  Sabbath. 
Levi  the  son  of  R.  Huna  bar  Hyya  and  Rabbi  the  son  of  R.  Huna,  occur- 
rence on  the  road.  A  bridle  may  be  worn  by  an  ass  whose  behavior  is  bad. 
A  bridle  is  allowed  as  a  guard  but  not  as  an  ornament.  An  ass  may  go  out 
with  a  rug,  hut  what  is  the  law  concerning  a  saddle.''  Ordinances  relative 
to  a  feed-bag.  The  decision  of  Arioch  of  Babylon  (Samuel)  in  the  matter. 
Concerning  bags  tied  around  the  udders  of  she-goats.  The  miracle  that  was 
wrought  for  a  man  whose  wife  died  and  left  him  a  nursing  child.  The  discus- 
sion of  the  rabbis  about  such  a  miracle.  Narrative  relating  to  a  man  whose 
wife  was  maimed.  Concerning  gear  which  may  not  be  worn  by  animals 
on  Sabbath.     Peculiarities  of  the  Hanun  tree  and  where  it  may  be  founcL 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  xxxiii 

The  wealth  of  R.  Eliezer  ben  Azariah.  Penalty  for  the  failure  to  warn  one's 
family  against  evil.  The  different  signs  on  the  foreheads  of  the  righteous 
and  the  wicked.  The  seal  of  God.  Derivation  of  the  merits  of  the  fathers. 
Is  death  possible  without  sin  ?  Defence  for  Reuben  and  others  who  are  men- 
tioned in  the  Bible  as  sinners.  Rabbi  Hanassi's  justification  for  David. 
"Was  David  guilty  of  listening  to  slander?  Consequences  of  David's  sin. 
King  Solomon's  sin.  The  Archangel  Gabriel's  act  at  the  time  of  King 
Solomon's  marriage  with  Pharaoh's  daughter.     The  most  fervent  penitents, 

91-106 
CHAPTER   VI. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  ///.  What  garments  a  woman  may  go  out  in.  Definition 
of  totaphoth.  Concerning  the  garb  of  slaves.  May  the  rabbis  wear  their 
insignia  of  office  on  Sabbath?  Effect  of  a  sermon  on  the  women  of  the  city 
of  Mehuza  concerning  ornaments  in  the  shape  of  a  crown.  Ordinances  con- 
cerning nose-bands,  earrings,  and  finger-rings.  What  garments  a  man 
must  not  go  out  in.  Consequences  of  wearing  iron-bound  sandals.  The 
law  of  majority.  How  shoes  are  to  be  put  on.  Why  one  when  anointing 
himself  should  first  anoint  the  head.  Law  concerning  amulets,  both  tried 
and  untried.  Ordinances  concerning  hairpins  and  perfume-bottles.  Causes 
of  poverty.     The  trees  ot  Jerusalem,     ......         107-117 

MiSHNAS  IV.  TO  IX.  Concerning  bows,  swords,  and  shields.  Are  they 
considered  ornaments  or  is  the  wearing  of  such  things  degrading?  Inter- 
pretation of  biblical  passages.  Are  they  to  be  taken  literally  or  figuratively. 
Rewards  emanating  from  the  proper  study  of  the  Law.  Customs  of  scholars 
when  discussing  the  Law.  God's  blessing  upon  scholars  who  mutually  in- 
struct one  another.  Regarding  a  man  who  keeps  a  vicious  dog  about  his 
premises.  Why  the  children  of  Israel  were  in  need  of  forgiveness  upon 
their  return  from  the  war  with  the  Midianites.  What  garments  women, 
young  girls,  and  boys  may  go  out  in  on  Sabbath.  References  to  cripples 
and  to  children  of  princes.  Concerning  the  danger  of  imitating  the  customs 
of  the  Amorites.     Occurrence  at  the  feast  given  by  R.  Aqiba,    .         1 17-126 

CHAPTER   VII. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  ///.  The  principal  rule  concerning  the  Sabbath.  Regu- 
lations regarding  children  in  captivity  among  idolaters  and  converts.  Re- 
maining with  idolaters.  Rules  concerning  one  who  was  ignorant  as  to  what 
labor  was  prohibited  on  the  Sabbath  but  was  conscious  of  the  Sabbath,  and 
vice  versa.  Concerning  a  man  who,  while  travelling  in  a  desert,  had  for- 
gotten which  day  was  Sabbath.  How  labor  may  be  distinguished.  Different 
instances  of  forgetfulness  regarding  Sabbath  and  the  performance  of  labor 
on  the  Sabbath.  Instances  of  forgetfulness  in  dietary  matters.  Instances 
of  intentional  and  unintentional  performance  of  labor,  and  their  distinction. 
Enumeration  of  the  forty,  less  one,  acts  of  labor.  Principal  and  incidental 
acts.  The  degree  of  guilt  involved  in  learning  magic  arts.  Condemnation 
of  one  who  is  able  to  acquire  astronomical  knowledge  and  neglects  to  do  so. 
Another  rule  was  laid  down.  Discussions  concerning  the  carrying  out  of 
necessary  things  on  the  Sabbath  and  the  limitation  of  quantity.  Different 
kinds  of  food  may  be  counted  together,        ,        ,        .        ,        ►         127-142 


xxiiv  SYNOPSIS    OF   SUBJECTS. 

CHAPTER  VIII. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  V.  The  prescribed  quantities  of  wine,  honey,  and  milk 
that  may  be  carried  out  on  Sabbath.  The  strength  of  different  wines.  In- 
stances of  stronger  creatures  fearing  weaker  ones.  Why  goats  precede 
sheep  in  a  flock.  Why  are  she-goats  not  covered  with  a  tail  like  sheep? 
Why  has  a  camel  a  short  tail?  Why  has  an  ox  a  long  tail?  Why  are  the 
feelers  of  a  locust  soft?  What  is  the  reason  that  the  lower  eyelids  of  a  hen 
turn  up?  Three  creatures  grow  stronger,  etc.  The  quantity  of  rope,  paper 
from  which  writing  has  been  erased,  skins,  parchment,  bones,  loam,  etc., 
which  may  be  carried  out  on  the  Sabbath.  Honor  of  man  supersedes  a 
biblical  commandment.  What  is  magic?  The  explanation  of  the  verse 
Isaiah,  xxxv.  14, 143-153 

CHAPTER   IX. 

MiSHNAS  /  TO  F7/.  Sayings  and  deductions  of  R.  Aqiba.  The  day  of 
the  week  and  the  month  on  which  the  Law  was  given  to  Israel.  Assump- 
tion of  authority  by  Moses  and  God's  acquiescence.  The  name  of  the  month 
on  which  the  Israelites  left  Egypt,  and  was  it  an  intercalary  month  ?  The 
compulsory  acceptance  of  the  law  by  the  Israelites  and  their  subsequent 
voluntary  acceptance  in  the  days  of  Xerxes  of  Persia.  Israel's  readiness  to 
obey  even  before  hearing.  The  publication  of  every  word  spoken  by  God 
in  seventy  languages.  Comparison  of  the  sayings  of  the  Torah  with  a 
nobleman.  The  understanding  of  the  Law  is  healthful,  its  misinterpretation 
is  poisonous.  Every  word  leaving  the  mouth  of  the  Lord  filled  the  world 
with  aromatic  odors.  Complaints  of  the  angels  upon  the  ascension  of  Moses 
to  heaven.  Moses'  answer.  Satan's  search  for  the  Torah.  Concerning  the 
bearing  of  a  slave  toward  his  master.  Rabha's  lecture  upon  the  patriarchs 
and  their  answers  to  the  complaints  of  God  concerning  the  children  of  Israel 
Isaac's  defence  of  the  children  of  Israel  upon  the  Lord's  telling  him  that 
they  had  sinned.  The  quantity  of  spices,  dyes,  metals,  pedler's  boxes,  and 
seeds  which  may  be  carried  out  on  the  Sabbath,  .        .        .         154-170 

CHAPTER   X. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  V7//.  Rules  pertaining  to  one  who  carries  out  things 
valuable  to  him.  The  quantities  in  which  they  may  be  carried  out.  The 
quantities  in  which  they  may  be  carried  out  by  one  to  whom  they  are  not 
valuable.  Concerning  eatables  which  are  carried  out  of  the  house  and  left 
on  the  doorstep,  and  things  that  are  carried  in  the  left  hand,  on  the  shoulder, 
on  the  head,  or  in  the  bosom.  Concerning  one  who,  while  intending  to  carry 
a  thing  in  front,  accidentally  carries  it  on  his  back,  or  vice  versa.  Concern- 
ing the  case  of  two  men  carrying  out  a  burden  which  one  alone  was  not 
capable  of  carrying.  The  law  in  that  case.  Concerning  the  case  of  one 
who  carries  out  eatables  in  quantities  less  than  the  limit  in  a  vessel.  Is  he 
culpable  for  carrying  the  vessel  or  not  ?  Concerning  the  permissibility  of 
paring  the  finger-nails  of  one  hand  by  means  of  those  of  the  other  hand  on 
the  Sabbath.  The  case  of  one  tearing  off  flowers  from  a  plant  in  an  unper- 
(orated  flower-pot,         ....*•        t        •        .        171 -182 


SYNOPSIS  OF  SUBJECTS 

OF 

VOLUME    II.— TRACT   SABBATH 


CHAPTER  XI. 


MiSHNAS  I.,  II.,  III.,  IV.,  and  V.  Throwing  from  private  into  private  by 
way  of  public  ground.  What  constituted  the  sin  of  the  wood-gatherer.  The 
mysterious  scrolls  found  by  Rabh  in  the  house  of  his  uncle  R.  Hyya  concern- 
ing the  principal  acts  of  labor.  What  was  the  name  of  the  wood-gatherer. 
Arraignment  of  R.  Aqiba  by  Jehudah  ben  Bathyra  for  slandering  Zeloph- 
chad,  by  naming  him  as  the  wood-gatherer,  and  for  slandering  Aaron,  by 
stating  that  he  had  been  punished  by  leprosy.  Reward  for  merit  comes 
more  quickly  than  retribution  for  wickedness.  Regulations  concerning  pits 
in  public  ground  for  the  Sabbath.  Throwing  from  a  distance  of  four  ells 
against  a  wall.  Throwing  within  four  ells,  when  the  object  thrown  rolled  to 
a  greater  distance.  Throwing  at  sea  for  a  distance  of  four  ells,  and  throw- 
ing from  the  sea  to  land,  or  from  one  ship  to  another.  Throwing  a  thing  on 
Sabbath  and  recollecting  that  it  was  Sabbath  immediately  afterwards.  If  the 
thing  thrown  was  caught  by  another.  The  rule  concerning  what  constitutes 
committing  an  act  through  error,  involving  the  liability  for  a  sin-offering, 

1 89-203 
CHAPTER   XII. 

MiSHNAS  I.,  II.,  III.,  and  IV.  Concerning  building.  The  amount  of 
building  involving  liability  for  a  sin-offering;  the  amount  of  ploughing.  The 
writing  of  how  many  letters  make  one  liable  for  a  sin-offering  ;  with  which 
hand  that  is  to  be  done.  The  wonderful  statement  of  some  young  men  at 
the  schoolhouse,  which  was  not  heard  of  even  in  the  time  of  Joshua  the  son 
of  Nun.  Why  the  letters  of  the  word  Sheqer  (lie)  are  so  close  together  (in  the 
order  of  sequence  of  the  alphabet)  and  the  letters  of  Emeth  (truth)  so  far 
apart?  Because  lies  are  very  frequent  and  truth  very  scarce.  Tattooing. 
Ben  Sattadai,  being  a  fool,  cannot  be  cited  as  an  instance,  .         204-212 

CHAPTER    XIII. 

MiSHNAS  I.,  II.,  III.,  and  IV.  Concer.iing  weaving.  How  many  threads 
one  must  weave  to  become  culpable.     One  who  ♦ears  an  article  or  breaks  a 

xli 


xlii  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

vessel  on  the  Sabbath  in  a  moment  of  fury  is  regarded  as  one  who  practises 
idolatry.  Concerning  one  who  rends  his  garments  upon  being  advised  of  the 
death  of  a  relative  on  Sabbath.  Reward  for  shedding  tears  over  the  death 
of  a  righteous  man.  Fate  of  those  who  fail  to  mourn  the  death  of  a  scholar. 
If  one  member  of  the  community  die,  let  the  entire  community  beware. 
Rules  pertaining  to  hunting  and  trapping.  May  the  door  be  closed  on  a 
stag  who  seeks  refuge  in  a  dwelling  ? 213-218 

CHAPTER   XIV. 

MiSHNA  I.  Concerning  the  eight  kinds  of  vermin  mentioned  in  the 
Thorah.  On  what  material  the  Phylacteries  may  be  written.  Samuel's  and 
Kama's  experience  with  Rabh  upon  the  arrival  of  the  latter  in  Babylon  from 
Palestine.  Questions  put  to  Rabh  by  Kama.  Samuel's  remedies  given 
Rabh  during  the  latter's  illness.  Questions  put  to  R.  Joshua  of  Garthi  by  a 
Bathusee,  and  R.  Joshua's  replies, 219-222 

MiSHNA  II.  Concerning  the  preparation  of  salt  water  on  Sabbath.  A 
drop  of  water  the  best  remedy  for  sore  eyes.  Which  parts  of  the  body  must 
not  be  touched  by  the  hand  immediately  after  arising  and  before  performing 
the  morning  ablutions.  The  comparison  of  the  eye  to  a  princess,  who  should 
not  be  touched  by  a  hand  that  had  not  been  washed  three  times.  Is  it  per- 
mitted to  bathe  a  sore  hand  in  wine  or  vinegar  on  Sabbath?        .         222-225 

MlSHNAS  III.  and  IV.  Concerning  foods  and  beverages  which  may  be 
partaken  of  on  Sabbath  for  medicinal  purposes.  Definition  of  the  tree-water 
mentioned  in  the  Mishna.  The  aptitude  of  Babylonian  beer  as  a  remedy. 
The  use  of  Ikkarim  (a  preventive  against  pregnancy),  .         .        225-229 

CHAPTER   XV. 

MiSHNAS  I.,  II.,  and  III.  Concerning  the  tieing  and  untieing  of  knots  on 
Sabbath.  The  poverty  of  R.  Jehudah,  the  brother  of  Sallah  the  Pious,  and 
the  manner  he  and  his  shared  the  use  of  one  pair  of  sandals,       .         230-233 

MiSHNA  IV.  Concerning  the  folding  of  clothes  and  the  making  of  beds 
on  the  Sabbath.  Laws  concerning  a  Sabbath  that  is  concurrent  with  the 
Day  of  Atonement.  Distinction  of  attire  on  Sabbath  from  that  on  week-days. 
R.  Johanan's  statement  in  reference  to  clothes.  Rules  for  walking  on  the 
Sabbath.  Inferences  drawn  from  the  biblical  passage  :  "Give  unto  the  wise, 
and  he  will  become  wiser."  Boaz's  object  in  marrying  Ruth.  The  mention 
made  in  the  Thorah  concerning  change  of  attire.  The  necessity  for  a  scholar 
of  keeping  his  attire  immaculate.  The  degree  of  trustworthiness  required  of 
a  scholar  in  order  that  he  may  recover  a  lost  article  without  identification. 
The  degree  of  worth  required  of  a  scholar  to  allow  of  his  eligibility  to  the 
presidency  of  a  congregation.  Rules  concerning  the  cleansing  of  food  on 
the  afternoon  of  the  Day  of  Atonement, 233-238 

CHAPTER   XVi. 

MiSHNAS  I.  and  II.  Concerning  the  saving  of  sacred  scrolls  from  a  con- 
flagr.ition  on  Sabbath,     What  is  tiie  law  concerning  such  scrolls  if  written  in 


SYNOPSIS    OF   SUBJECTS.  xliii 

Aramaic,  Coptic,  Median,  old  Hebrew,  Elamite,  and  Greek  ?  What  hap- 
pened to  Aba  Halafta  on  his  visit  to  R.  Gamaliel  the  Great  in  Tiberias, 
while  sitting  at  the  table  of  Johanan  the  Nazuph.  Aba  Halafta's  reminis- 
cence of  R.  Gamaliel's  grandfather,  in  reference  to  the  book  of  Job,  written 
in  Aramaic.  The  law  concerning  the  saving  of  written  benedictions  and 
amulets  from  a  conflagration.  One  who  writes  benedictions  is  regarded  as 
one  who  burns  the  Law.  What  happened  to  men  of  Sidon,  who  wrote  bene- 
dictions, which  fact  became  known  to  R.  Ishmael.  Why  are  the  two  verses 
(Numbers  x.  35  and  36)  marked  by  signs  ?  What  is  the  law  concerning  the 
saving  of  the  Gilyonim  and  the  books  of  the  Sadducees  from  a  conflagration  ? 
R.  Tarphon's  dictum  in  this  matter.  Ema  Shalom,  R.  Eliezer's  wife's,  and 
her  brother  R,  Gamaliel's  experience  with  a  philosopher,  who  was  also  a 
judge.  The  law  concerning  covers  of  books,  and  to  which  place  they  may 
be  taken  in  case  of  fire, .         239-257 

MiSHNA  III.  How  much  food  may  be  saved  from  a  conflagration  on 
Sabbath  ?  How  should  bread  be  cut  on  the  Sabbath  ?  The  number  of  meals 
to  be  eaten  on  Sabbath.  The  amount  of  property  a  poor  man  may  own  and 
siill  not  be  debarred  from  accepting  charitable  gifts.  What  should  be  given 
to  an  itinerant  beggar.  The  reward  of  those  who  observe  the  eating  of  three 
meals  on  the  Sabbath.  The  reward  of  one  who  maketh  the  Sabbath  a  de- 
light. By  what  means  we  may  make  the  Sabbath  a  delight.  The  good 
deeds  related  by  several  Tanaim  and  Amoraim,  to  have  been  especially  taken 
care  of  by  them.  The  different  kinds  of  work  performed  by  each  one  of  the 
Amoraim  personally  in  honor  of  the  Sabbath.  Anecdote  told  of  Joseph,  who 
honored  the  Sabbath,  and  his  rich  Gentile  neighbor.  The  eventual  impover- 
ishment of  the  Gentile  through  the  purchase  of  a  pearl  which  was  swallowed 
by  a  fish,  and  the  sudden  wealth  of  Joseph,  who  bought  the  fish  and  found 
the  pearl.  Experience  of  R.  Hyya  bar  Aba  while  the  guest  of  a  rich  man  in 
the  city  of  Ludkai.  How  must  the  Day  of  Atonement  be  honored.!'  What 
the  two  angels  who  accompany  man  at  the  close  of  Sabbath  say  to  one  who 
had  honored  the  Sabbath  and  to  one  who  had  not.  The  story  of  R.  Abuha 
and  his  calf.  Different  opinions  concerning  the  cause  of  the  destruction  of 
Jerusalem 257,  258 

MiSHNAS  IV.,  v.,  VI.,  and  VII.  How  many  loaves  of  bread  may  be  saved 
in  a  basket  from  a  conflagration.  It  is  allowed  to  cover  a  chest  with  a  goat- 
skin to  keep  it  from  burning.  Partitions  to  be  made  with  vessels  filled  with 
water.  Concerning  a  candle  that  had  fallen  on  the  table.  Concerning  Gen- 
tiles and  minors  at  the  extinguishing  of  a  fire  on  Sabbath.  The  miracle 
occurring  for  Joseph  ben  Simai.  What  dangerous  animals  may  be  killed  on 
Sabbath.  The  dissatisfaction  of  the  pious  with  those  who  kill  on  the  Sabbath, 
and  the  dissatisfaction  of  the  sages  with  the  pious.  Aba  bar  Minyumi  at  the 
house  of  the  Exilarch.  The  story  of  R.  Gamaliel  on  board  of  a  ship,  and  of 
Samuel,  in  whose  presence  a  Gentile  lit  a  candle  for  his  own  use,       258-265 

CHAPTER   XVII. 

MiSHNAS  I.  to  VI.  Concerning  vessels  which  may  be  handled  on  the  Sab- 
bath. Vessels  which  may  be  removed  for  lack  of  space,  also  from  sunshine 
into  the  shade  ;  whether  fragments  of  the  vessels  may  be  moved  with  them, 


xliv  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS 

and  other  such  matters.     The  questions  put  to  Rabh  by  Mari  bar  Rachel,  and 
Rabh's  replies.     Concerning  window-blinds  and  covers  of  vessels,      266-275 

CHAPTER   XVIII. 

MiSHNA  I.  How  much  straw  may  be  removed  for  the  accommodation 
of  guests  on  Sabbath.  The  reward  for  hospitality.  Different  opinions  con- 
cerning the  merits  of  hospitality.  The  six  things  of  which  the  interest  is 
paid  to  man  on  earth  and  the  principal  in  the  world  to  come.  The  four 
additional  things  which  include  the  previous  six.  Concerning  one  who 
judges  his  neighbor  charitably,  and  his  reward  above.  The  story  of  the  man 
who  was  hired  by  the  father  of  Hyrcanos  for  three  years,  and  who  was  not 
paid  at  the  end  of  the  term.  The  story  of  the  pious  man  who  ransomed  a 
maiden  from  captivity.  The  story  of  R.  Jehoshua  and  the  Roman  matron, 
and  his  disciples.     Whether  salt  meat  and  salt  fish  may  be  handled,  276-281 

MiSHNA  11.  Concerning  a  basket  set  down  for  chickens  to  climb.  Con- 
cerning a  woman  carrying  her  child.  What  may  be  done  in  the  event  of  an 
animal  falling  into  the  water  on  Sabbath, 281,282 

MiSHNA  HI.  Concerning  animals  about  to  calve  on  a  festival.  What 
assistance  may  be  given  a  woman  about  to  give  birth  to  child  on  a  Sabbath. 
For  how  long  a  period  may  the  Sabbath  be  violated  on  account  of  a  woman 
lying-in  ?  From  what  time  is  she  considered  to  be  lying-in  ?  Where  life  is 
at  stake,  the  ordinances  may  be  put  to  the  most  lenient  construction.  Every- 
thing necessary  for  a  sick  person,  where  the  illness  is  not  dangerous,  should 
be  performed  by  a  Gentile.  Concerning  bleeding.  Meals  after  being  bled. 
The  duty  of  drinking  wine  after  being  bled,  and  advice  to  one  who  has  no 
wine.  On  what  days  one  should  be  bled  and  on  what  days  one  should  not. 
Everything  mentioned  in  Ezekiel  xvi.  4  may  be  done  for  a  woman  lying-in  on 
Sabbath 282-287 

CHAPTER   XIX. 

MiSHNAS  I.,  II.,  and  III.  Concerning  the  bringing  of  the  knife  for  circum- 
cision on  Sabbath.  When  it  should  be  brought  publicly  and  when  con- 
cealed; when  it  should  be  concealed  before  witnesses.  Public  carrying  of 
the  knife  as  a  proof  of  the  love  of  the  commandment.  Commandments  ac- 
cepted by  Israelites  with  joy  are  even  now  carried  out  joyfully  ;  those  received 
with  protest  are  now  reluctantly  carried  out.  Story  of  Elisha,  "  the  man  of 
wings."  The  Sabbath  may  be  violated  on  account  of  preparations  for  cir- 
rumcision.  Concerning  the  sucking  out  of  the  blood,  and  bandages  neces- 
sary for  circumcision.  What  Abayi's  mother  told  him.  Rabh's  experience 
with  the  physicians  of  Me'huzza.  Children  who  have  imperfect  circulation 
should  not  be  circumcised  until  in  perfect  health.  What  happened  to  Nathan 
of  Babylon.  How  a  child  should  be  bathed  on  Sabbath.  The  law  concern- 
ing hermaphrodites.  Concerning  a  child  born  at  twilight  and  a  child  born 
without  a  foreskin.  The  story  of  the  child  of  R.  Ada  bar  Ahabha,  who  was 
carried  to  thirteen  circumcisers.  Whether  the  Sabbath  may  be  violated  on 
account  of  a  child  that  had  been  delivered  from  the  side  of  the  mother  (with 
instruments).     When  a  child  is  called  a  miscarriage.     If  a  child  was  to  a 


SYNOPSIS    OF   SUBJECTS.  xlv 

certainty  regularly  born,  it  must  in  the  event  of  its  death  be  mourned  in  the 
regular  manner,      ..........         288-305 

MiSHNAS  IV.,  v.,  and  VI.  Concerning  one  who  had  two  children  to  be 
circumcised.  Under  what  circumstances  a  child  may  be  circumcised  after 
the  eighth  day  and  until  the  twelfth.  The  benedictions  pronounced  by  the 
circumciser,  the  father  of  the  child,  and  the  assembled  guests  after  the 
circumcision,         ..........         305-308 

CHAPTER   XX. 

MiSHNAS  I.  to  V.  Concerning  wine-filters.  Laws  concerning  folding- 
beds,  folding-chairs,  etc.  Question  put  by  R.  Kahana  to  Rabh.  Rabh's 
reply  and  the  explanation  of  same  by  the  Gemara.  The  assertion  that  the 
Law  will  be  forgotten  by  Israel,  and  R.  Simeon's  ben  Jochai  explanation  of 
same.  The  advisability  of  investigating  amongst  the  judges  in  Israel  in 
times  of  trouble.  Corrupt  judges  the  hindrance  to  the  resting  of  the  Lord's 
Shekhina  among  the  children  of  Israel.  Zion's  redemption  must  come 
through  justice.  Tiie  story  of  the  young  scholar  who  was  accused  before  R. 
Ashi.  The  story  told  by  R.  Joseph  concerning  the  goblet  of  wine  served 
him  by  Mar  Uqba.  Concerning  the  soaking  of  laserpitium  on  Sabbath. 
Indisposition  of  R.  A'ha  bar  Joseph,  who  was  cured  by  laserpitium.  Several 
sayings  of  R.  Hisda,  giving  advice.  How  animals  must  be  fed.  Concerning 
straw  on  a  bed.  Concerning  customary  and  unusual  handling  of  things. 
Small  men  should  not  wear  large  shoes  nor  women  torn  shoes,      .      309-321 

CHAPTER    XXI. 

MiSHNAS  I.  to  III.  Concerning  the  lifting  of  a  child  in  connection  with 
things  held  by  the  child,  and  the  lifting  of  a  corpse  in  connection  with  other 
things.  Concerning  a  base  to  a  prohibited  thing.  Concerning  a  stone  at  the 
opening  of  a  barrel  or  on  a  cushion.  Concerning  the  removal  of  husks  and 
bones  from  the  table.  The  decision  of  Abayi  that  the  school  of  Hillel  is 
always  in  conformity  with  R.  Simeon's  opinion,  that  the  law  of  Muktza  has 
no  foundation,         ..........         322-327 

CHAPTER   XXII. 

MiSHNA  I.  How  much  may  be  saved  from  a  broken  cask.  Concerning 
fruit  which  is  pressed  in  order  to  extract  the  juice.  Bunches  of  grapes  may  be 
pressed  into  the  cooking  pot  direct,  but  not  into  a  bowl.  According  to  biblical 
law  one  is  not  culpable  for  pressing  any  fruit,  with  the  exception  of  grapes 
and  olives.     Witnesses  testifying  from  hearsay  are  not  accredited,     328-331 

MiSHNA  II.  Concerning  eatables  that  are  dressed  with  hot  water.  The 
three  questions  propounded  by  R.  Hyya  bar  Aba :  "  Why  are  the  fowls  of 
Babylon  so  fat?  Why  are  the  Babylonians  so  merry  during  the  festivals? 
Why  are  the  scholars  of  Babylon  so  well  dressed  ?  "  The  answers  of  R. 
Johanan  :  "  If  a  thing  is  as  certain  to  thee  as  the  fact  that  thou  canst  not 
marry  thy  own  sister,  then  say  it.     Otherwise,  say  it  not  !  "        .         331,  332 

MiSHNAS  III.  and  IV.    Concerning  the  breaking  open  of  a  cask  and  eating' 
its  contents.     Rabh  shows  his  respect  for  his  pupils  R.    Kahana  and  R. 


xlvi  SYNOPSIS    OF    SUBJECTS. 

Ashi  by  refusing  to  sit  on  a  bolster  when  they  sat  on  the  ground.  Concern- 
ing the  depositing  of  victuals  in  a  cave.  Concerning  the  dusting  of  clothes 
on  Sabbath.  R.  Shesha's,  the  son  of  Idi,  tasteful  arrangement  of  his  cloak. 
The  narrative  of  R.  Dimi  in  the  name  of  and  regarding  Rabbi,      .      332-338 

MiSHNA  V.  Concerning  bathing  in  a  cavern  or  in  the  hot  springs  of  Tibe- 
rias. How  the  wine  of  Purgaitha  and  the  water  of  Deumseth  robbed  the 
Israelites  of  ten  tribes.  How  R.  Jehudah  had  a  pledge  taken  from  Rabba 
bar  bar  Hanna  to  insure  the  latter's  appearance  at  his  college,  and  the 
advantage  gained  by  R.  Jehudah  in  learning  a  new  Halakha,       .       338-341 

CHAPTER   XXni. 

MiSHNAS  I.  and  II.  Concerning  borrowing  and  lending.  Such  acts  as 
must  be  performed  on  festivals  should  be  performed  in  as  different  a  manner 
to  what  they  are  performed  on  week-days  as  possible.  Concerning  the  count- 
ing of  guests  and  dishes.  Casting  lots  at  meals.  A  man  on  whose  account 
another  is  punished  is  not  admitted  into  the  abode  of  the  Lord,     .      342-346 

MiSHNAS  III.,  IV.,  and  V.  Concerning  the  hiring  of  laborers  on  Sab- 
bath. The  rule  laid  down  by  Abba  Saul.  Concerning  the  transaction  of 
the  affairs  of  a  community  on  Sabbath.  The  betrothal  of  children  on  the 
Sabbath.  The  miracle  which  occurred  to  a  man  who  would  not  mend  a  fence 
of  his  field  on  Sabbath,  Concerning  waiting  at  the  techoom  on  account  of 
a  bride  or  a  corpse.  Concerning  the  performance  of  all  necessities  for  a 
corpse  on  Sabbath,         .........         346-353 

MiSHNA  VI.  Closing  the  eyes  of  a  corpse  on  Sabbath.  Concerning  the 
closing  of  the  eyes  of  a  dying  person  on  a  week-day.  On  account  of  a  living 
child,  only  one  day  old,  the  Sabbath  may  be  violated;  but  not  even  for  David, 
King  of  Israel,  if  he  be  dead,  may  this  be  done.  A  living  child  one  day  old 
need  not  be  guarded  from  the  attacks  of  rats,  but  even  the  dead  body  of  Og, 
King  of  Bashan,  must  be  guarded  from  such  attacks.  Practise  charity 
when  the  opportunity  presents  itself  and  when  it  is  within  thy  reach. 
Poverty  is  compared  to  a  wheel  constantly  turning.  He  who  pities  living 
creatures  is  pitied  also  in  Heaven.  The  explanation  of  many  verses  in  Ec- 
ciesiastes  regarding  the  human  body.  Why  R.  Hanina  did  not  weep  over 
the  death  of  his  daughter.  There  are  six  kinds  of  tears  which  are  shed  : 
three  good  and  three  bad.  The  dispute  of  Joshua  ben  Kar'ha  with  the 
eunuch.  Why  Barzillai  was  a  liar.  Worms  are  as  annoying  to  a  corpse  as 
a  needle  is  to  excrescences  on  the  flesh.  The  soul  of  a  man  mourns  for  the 
body  seven  days.  The  narrative  relating  to  R.  Jehudah  and  his  actions 
towards  a  stranger  who  died  in  his  vicinity.  "  Return  thy  soul  as  clean  as 
it  was  given  thee,"  and  the  parable  connected  with  the  statement.  The  con- 
versation between  R.  Na'hman  and  the  dead  body  of  R.  Ahai  ben  Yashi. 
The  bones  of  a  man  who  had  no  jealousy  in  his  heart  will  not  rot.  The  souls 
of  the  righteous  are  ensconced  underneath  the  throne  of  honor  a  twelvemonth 
after  leaving  the  body.  "  Make  my  funeral  sermon  impressive,  for  I  shall  be 
present."  To  repent  one  day  before  death  means  to  repent  every  day,  lest 
ihc  morrow  bring  death.  "  At  all  times  let  thy  garments  be  white,"  and  the 
parable  connected  with  it, 353-362 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  xlvii 

CHAPTER   XXIV. 

MiSHNA  I.  Concerning  one  who  was  overtaken  by  dusk  on  the  eve  of 
Sabbath  while  on  the  road.  The  Sabbath  rest  must  be  kept  inviolate  as  far 
as  one's  animal  is  concerned,  but  one  is  not  responsible  for  the  Sabbath  rest 
of  a  Gentile.  An  additional  statement  concerning  the  Sabbath  rest,  which 
the  sages  would  not  reveal.  On  the  day  the  eighteen  precautionary  ordi- 
nances were  instituted,  according  to  the  opinion  of  some,  the  measure  of  laws 
was  made  heaping  full,  while,  according  to  others,  it  was  not  filled  enough. 
The  examples  connected  with  this  statement.  Why  R.  Gamaliel  allowed  his 
ass  to  drop  dead  under  a  load,       .......         363-367 

MiSHNAS  II.,  III.,  and  IV.  Concerning  the  untieing  of  straw  for  cattle. 
Concerning  the  cramming  of  camels,  calves,  poultry,  and  doves.  Kneading 
on  Sabbath.  The  fate  of  those  born  on  the  different  days  of  the  week,  accord- 
ing to  the  diary  of  R.  Jehoshua  ben  Levi.  The  seven  planets  guiding  the 
destiny  of  man.  Designation  (Muktza)  on  account  of  filth  and  on  account  of 
expensive  articles.     Concerning  the  cutting  up  of  pumpkins  and  carrion, 

367-376 

MiSHNA  V.  What  vows  may  be  annulled  on  Sabbath.  Whether  a  vow 
may  be  annulled  before  the  expiration  of  twenty-four  hours  after  one  hears  it 
pronounced,  or  only  during  the  same  day.  How  consultation  concerning 
vows  must  be  had.  Should  a  Chacham  (sage)  only  be  consulted,  or  will  three 
ordinary  men  suffice  for  that  purpose  ?  How  vows  are  to  be  annulled  on 
Sabbath.  By  thought  or  by  word  of  mouth  ;  may  one  say  merely  :  "  Go,  eat 
and  drink  !  "  The  sages  comply  with  the  request  of  MarZutraand  annul  his 
vow  on  a  Sabbath.  How  water  for  ritual  purposes  may  be  measured  on 
Sabbath.  What  happened  to  Ula  at  the  house  of  the  Exilarch  regarding  the 
measuring  of  water  in  a  bath,        ...         ....        376-378 

CUSTOMARY   CONCLUDING   PRAYER. 
Epigraph.     Translator's  remarks, 379,  380 

APPENDIX.* 

Concerning  the  eighteen  regulations  enacted  in  the  attic  of  Hananiah  ben 
Hizkyah  ben  Garon.  Their  importance  and  influence  on  the  government  of 
the  Jews.     The  degeneracy  of  priestdom 381-390 

*  We  would  call  the  attention  of  the  reader  to  the  appendix  of  this  volume,  which 
will  prove  interesting  to  the  general  reader  and  present  something  heretofore  un- 
published to  the  student  of  the  Talmud. 


SYNOPSIS  OF  SUBJECTS 


VOLUME  III.— TRACT  ERUBIN* 


CHAPTER   I. 


MiSHNA  I.  treats :  If  an  entry  be  higher  than  twenty  ells.  The  size  ot 
the  height  is  based  upon  the  door  and  the  porch  of  the  pillars  of  the  temple, 
or  palaces  of  kings.  If  the  cross-beam  was  partly  above  twenty  ells,  and 
partly  below.  The  ell  used  at  a  booth  and  an  entry  measures  five  spans,  but 
the  ell  used  at  Kilaim  is  six  spans.  The  several  prescribed  quantities, 
tiie  intervention  of  articles,  and  the  ordinances  concerning  the  walls  of 
entries  and  booths  were  given  by  JMoses  at  the  Mount  Sinai,  and  also  Gud, 
Lavud,  and  crooked  walls.  About  Kal  Vochomer  {a  fortiori),  which  comes 
very  often  in  the  Talmud.  The  people  there  were  ignorant,  and  had  to  be 
given  a  liberal  interpretation  of  tiie  ordinance.  How  must  entries  facing 
public  ground  be  combined  by  an  Erub  ?  May  the  rigorous  ordinances  of 
two  Tanaim  be  applied  to  one  case  ?  What  was  decided  about  a  village  of 
a  shepherd,  where  was  an  entry  which  opened  into  a  vacant  yard.  May  the 
space  underneath  the  cross-beam  be  used  ?  The  law  about  an  entry  which 
was  provided  with  a  number  of  side-beams  (with  the  illustration).  The  law 
about  a  missing  portion  of  the  wall,  perceptible  from  the  inside  or  from  the 
outside  (with  their  illustrations).  Whether  an  entry  measuring  twenty  ells 
could  be  reduced  to  thirteen  and  a  third  if  built  as  illustrated  ?  What  R. 
Jehudah  taught  to  R.  Hyya,  the  son  of  Rabh,  and  how  Rabh  corrected. 
How  an  apparent  door  is  to  be  made, 1-22 

MiSHNA  II.  What  is  required  to  legalize  the  carrying  within  an  entry, 
TIow  the  sages  were  very  lenient  with  all  things  pertaining  to  water. 
Whether  water  may  be  taken  from  an  arm  of  the  sea  which  enters  a  court- 
yard. There  is  a  tradition  about  an  entry  that  can  be  legalized  by  a  side  or 
cross  beam.  Wliy  was  Rabbi,  or  Rabh,  more  sagacious  than  his  colleagues  ? 
Why  were  the  school  of  Hillel  favored  t  Because  modest.  Two  years  the 
schools  of  Shammai  and  Hillel  disputed  whether  it  were  better  that  man  had 
not  been  created  as  he  was, 22-28 


Sec  introduction  to  synopsis  in  Tract  Sabbath,  Vol.  I.,  p.  xxix. 
ix 


X  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

MiSHNA  III.  The  cross-beam  must  be  wide  enough  to  hold  a  half  of  a 
brick.  About  a  cross-beam  put  up  over  an  entry  but  not  reaching  the  oppo- 
site wall.  Anything  measuring  three  spans  in  circumference  is  one  hand 
in  width, 28-31 

MiSHNAS  IV.,  v.,  VI.,  and  VII.  The  height  and  thickness  of  the  side- 
beam.  How  much  is  meant  by  thickness  "  whatever  it  may"?  About  a 
side-beam  standing  of  itself.  There  was  a  pillar  about  which  Abayi  and 
Rabha  differed  all  their  lives.  Side-beams  may  be  made  out  of  anything. 
Every  open  space  ten  spans  wide  may  be  used  as  an  entry.  The  open  space 
must  not  exceed  in  extent  the  fence  proper.  How  can  it  be  that  there  should 
be  a  contradiction  and  still  the  Halakha  should  prevail  according  to  it  ?  A 
fence  may  also  be  constructed  with  three  ropes,  or  with  cane-laths.  Any 
partition  not  constructed  on  the  principle  of  warp  and  shoot,  whether  it  is  a 
partition  ?  I  swear  by  the  law  of  Moses,  and  by  the  prophets,  and  by  the 
Hagiographa,  that  Rabh  said  this.  It  makes  absolutely  no  difference,  be  it 
a  caravan  or  an  individual,  in  an  inhabited  place  or  in  the  desert.  The 
four  privileges  granted  to  warriors  in  the  camp,      ....        31-39 

CHAPTER   II. 

MiSHNA  I.  How  enclosures  are  to  be  made  around  wells  (and  illustra- 
tions.) To  make  an  enclosure  around  a  well  of  rain-water  is  permitted  only 
to  the  pilgrims  to  Jerusalem.  Adam,  the  first  man,  had  a  dual  face.  The 
Lord  was  sponsor  to  him.  The  fires  of  hell  cannot  gain  access  to  the  bodies 
of  the  sinners  of  Israel  ;  Abraham  the  patriarch,  seeing  that  they  are  cir- 
cumcised, rescues  them.  How  much  in  size  must  the  larger  part  of  a  cow 
be  reckoned  ?  May  things  be  carried  from  a  courtyard  opening  into  the 
enclosure  around  a  well,  and  vice  versa  ?  I  have  heard  that  ye  go  to  the 
Synagogue  of  Daniel  on  the  Sabbath  ;  upon  what  grounds  do  ye  do  this  ? 
In  the  time  that  Solomon  the  king  ordained  the  law  of  Erubin,  a  heavenly 
voice  was  heard.  Solomon  said  three  thousand  proverbs  for  every  one  of 
the  biblical  commandments.  The  commandments  are  to  be  fulfilled  to-day, 
and  the  rewards  will  be  in  the  world  to  come.  If  a  public  thoroughfare 
passes  through  an  enclosure.  The  paths  by  which  the  mountains  of  Pales- 
tine are  ascended  do  not  come  under  the  head  of  public  ground,       ,       40-55 

MiSHNAS  II.  and  III.  An  enclosure  of  boards  must  be  made  only  for  a 
public  well.  The  difference  in  the  opinions  of  R.  Jehudah  b.  Babah,  R. 
Aqiba,  R.  Eliezer,  and  R.  Jose,  about  a  garden  or  woodshed  over  seventy 
ells  square.  How  can  one  hundred  ells  in  length  by  fifty  by  fifty  in  breadth 
(Ex.  xxvii.  18)  be  understood  ?  If  a  woodshed  of  more  than  two  saahs' 
capacity  was  fenced  in  for  a  dwelling.  In  a  bleaching-ground  (behind  a 
liouse)  things  must  not  be  carried  except  for  a  distance  of  four  ells.  What 
was  done  by  R.  Huna  bar  Hinana,  R.  Papa,  and  R.  Huna,  the  son  of  R. 
Joshua  in  reference  to  a  garden  on  the  estate  of  the  Exilarch  containing  a 
pavilion, 5S-6i 

CHAPTER   III. 

MiSHNA  I.  With  what  kind  of  victuals  may  the  Erub  be  effected  ?  "  The 
man  who  will  explain  to  me  the  dictum  of  Ben  Bagbag  concerning  the  oxen, 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  xi 

I  will  carry  his  clothes  after  him  to  tlie  bath-house."  The  prescribed  quanti- 
ties of  victuals  for  an  Erub.  R.  Jeremiah  went  out  into  the  villages  and  was 
asked  whether  an  Erub  may  be  made  with  bean-pods.  "  May  the  lord  forgive 
K.  Menashiah  bar  Shegublick.  I  said  this  to  him  in  reference  to  a  Mishna, 
and  lie  said  this  in  reference  to  a  Boraitha."  Abayi  said  :  My  mother  told  me 
that  roasted  ears  are  good  for  the  heart,  and  drive  away  care,  etc.  An  Erub 
must  not  be  made  with  consecrated  things.  There  are  sages  who  hold  that 
the  prescribed  quantities  which  are  dependent  upon  the  size  of  man  should 
be  measured  accordingly,  ........         62-70 

MiSHNAS  II.,  III.,  IV.,  and  V.  Whether  an  Erub  may  be  made  of  things 
consecrated,  or  from  which  heave-offering,  etc.,  has  not  been  separated. 
When  a  man  sends  his  Erub  by  the  hand  of  a  deaf  and  dumb  person,  an 
idiot,  or  a  minor.  The  difference  of  opinion  between  R.  Na'hman  and  R. 
Shesheth,  whether  the  established  rule  that  a  messenger  will  perform  his 
errand  holds  good  in  rabbinical  things  only,  or  also  in  biblical.  If  he  had 
put  it  into  a  pit,  where  is  the  pit  supposed  to  be  situated  ?  If  the  man  should 
put  the  Erub  on  top  of  a  cane  or  pole,  into  a  cupboard  which  he  locked  and 
then  lost  the  key,  the  Erub  is  nevertheless  valid,  providing  it  was  a  festival. 
On  -Sabbath,  however,  it  is  not  valid.  If  the  Erub  rolls  (or  is  moved)  out  of 
the  limit  of  the  Sabbath  distance  ?  If  the  time  when  it  took  place  is  doubt- 
ful ?  If  a  clean  and  unclean  loaf  were  before  a  man,  and  he  was  told  to 
make  an  Erub  with  the  clean  one,  but  did  not  know  which  was  which? 
Said  R.  Na'hman  to  Rabha  :  If  thou  wilt  measure  a  whole  kur  of  salt  and 
present  me  with  it,  I  shall  tell  thee  the  answer.  A  man  may  make  his  Erub 
conditional.  If  one  of  the  two  sages  had  been  the  man's  teacher,  he  must 
go  to  meet  his  teacher.  It  frequently  happens  that  a  man  has  a  greater 
fondness  for  his  colleague  than  for  his  teacher.  Why  can  he  not  make  it 
conditional  upon  the  arrival  of  sages  from  opposite  directions?  R.  Jehudah 
does  not  admit  of  the  theory  of  premeditated  choice.  Who  is  the  Tana 
who  holds  that  the  sages  also  discountenance  the  theory  of  premeditated 
choice  ? 71-82 

MiSHNAS  VI.,  VII.,  VIII.  If  a  festival  precedes  or  succeeds  a  Sabbath, 
how  must  it  be  done  ?  Have  two  days  of  the  festival  each  a  separate  de- 
gree of  sanctification  ?  The  opinion  of  the  four  old  sages  is  in  accordance 
with  or  contrary  to  Eliezer's  decision.  Is  an  Erub  of  the  first  day  valid  for 
the  east,  and  of  the  second  for  the  west?  My  Erub  shall  be  valid  for  the 
first  day  and  on  the  second  I  am  like  my  townsmen.  What  was  said  to  the 
men  who  prepared  baldachins  for  marriages.  How  is  it  with  the  benedic- 
tion of  the  time  on  the  days  of  New  Year  and  the  Day  of  Atonement  ?  How 
the  rabbis  sent  a  man  to  R.  Hisda  to  see  his  custom  about  the  benediction 
of  time.     Must  a  fast  be  completed  on  a  Friday  ?  .         .         .        82-92 

CHAPTER    IV. 

Mishna  I.  What  Rabbon  Gamaliel,  R.  Eliezer  b.  Azariah,  R.  Joshua, 
and  R.  Aqiba  discussed  when  they  were  on  board  the  ship  from  Parendisim. 
Three  persons  will  never  come  to  Gehenna.  Three  classes  of  human  beings 
die  in  the  possession  of  their  power  of  speech.  If  foes  or  an  evil  spirit  have 
carried  a  man  into  another  town  ?     The  Halakha  about  which  R.  Gamaliel 


xii  SYNOPSIS    OF   SUBJECTS. 

and  R.  Aqiba  disputed  the  whole  day  on  board  the  ship.  The  supposition 
that  the  seven  Halakhas  related  on  the  same  Sabbath  in  the  morning  in 
Sura,  and  in  the  evening  in  Pumbaditha,  were  through  Elijah  the  prophet. 
How  a  partition  with  men  can  be  made.  It  once  happened  that  flasks  of 
wine  were  thrown  out  of  Rabba's  house  on  the  road  in  the  city  of  Mehuzza, 
and  what  was  done  with  them,       .......        93-100 

MiSHNA  II.  All  those  who  go  forth  on  an  errand  of  safety  are  permitted 
to  return  to  their  homes  on  Sabbath.  Besieged  cities  and  those  near  a 
boundary.  The  difference  of  opinions  between  R.  Meir  and  R.  Jehudah 
about  the  entering  a  town  at  dusk  before  Sabbath.  According  to  whom  the 
Halakha  prevails  when  R.  Aqiba,  R.  Jose,  and  R.  Meir,  R.  Jehudah,  Rabbi, 
etc.,  differ.  Notes  about  our  omissions  in  the  Talmud,  about  the  abbrevi- 
ation of  undecided  questions,  and  about  the  rule  laid  down  by  R.  Meshar- 
shia.  It  once  happened  that  rams  were  brought  into  the  city  of  Mabrakhta 
on  a  festival.  Whence  do  we  derive  the  four  ells  ?  If  we  were  to  learn  the 
Talmud  in  this  manner,  we  would  never  be  able  to  learn  anything.  An 
Erub  divided  by  a  man  in  two  parts  or  deposited  in  two  separate  ves- 
sels,           .  lOO-III 

MiSHNAS  III.,  IV.  Should  a  man  overtaken  by  dusk  on  the  road  single 
out  a  tree  or  hedge  ?  What  is  meant  by  "legally  he  has  said  nothing"? 
If  a  man  made  an  error  and  deposited  his  Erub  in  two  directions.  What 
Rabba  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Jose,  that  it  should  he  accepted,  though  he 
had  not  said  so.  What  is  the  principal  way  to  make  an  Erub,  bread  or  the 
feet .''  One  who  can  prepare  an  Erub  and  does  not  do  so,  is  like  one  driving 
an  ass  and  leading  a  camel.  R.  Jehudah  bar  Isht'tha  brought  a  basket  of 
fruit  to  R.  Nathan  bar  Oshiya  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath.  If  one  went  beyond 
the  legal  limit  even  a  single  ell.  Opinions  of  R.  Simeon  and  the  sages  about 
one  overtaken  by  dusk, 111-118 

CHAPTER   V. 

MiSHNA  I.  How  can  the  boundaries  of  a  town  be  extended?  The  dif- 
ference between  the  hearts  of  the  previous  sages  and  those  of  the  later.  Why 
the  Judeans  retained  what  they  had  learned,  and  the  Galileans,  not.  Whence 
is  it  known  that  the  Lord  forgave  Saul  for  his  sin  ?  When  Joshua  b.  Ha- 
naniah  was  disconcerted  by  a  woman,  a  girl,  and  a  boy.  What  Brurih,  tlie 
wife  of  R.  Meir,  told  to  R.  Jose,  the  Galilean,  and  also  to  a  young  scholar. 
The  explanation  of  Netzach,  .Selah,  and  Voed  mentioned  in  the  Bible.  If 
the  tables  had  not  been  broken  the  first  time  the  law  would  not  have  been 
forgotten  by  Israel.  How  to  retain  one's  knowledge.  How  the  method  of 
teaching  the  law  was  in  the  times  of  Moses.  R.  Preida  would  teach  a  dis- 
ciple a  thing  four  hundred  times,  and  once  twice  four  hundred  times:  his 
reward  for  this  from  heaven.  If  a  town  is  in  the  form  of  an  arch.  If  one 
comes  to  make  a  town  square.  The  equinoxes.  Note  about  the  seven 
planets  of  ancient  astronomy,        .......         119-131 

MiSHNAS  II.,  III.,  IV.,  V.  An  allowance  of  seventy  and  two-thirds  ells  of 
space  must  be  made  to  the  town.  The  difference  of  opinions  whether  to 
each  town,  or  between.     What  must  the  distance  between  the  outer  villages 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  xiii 

be  ?  One  must  not  measure  the  legal  distance  except  with  a  line  exactly  fifty 
ells  long.  The  three  kintls  of  cord.  What  is  meant  by  cutting  straight 
through  the  mountain.  The  measurement  must  be  undertaken  only  by  an 
expert.  If  a  town  belonging  to  an  individual  becomes  public  property.  If 
a  town  that  is  public  property  becomes  the  property  of  an  individual.  The 
inhabitants  of  Kakunai  came  before  R.  Joseph  and  asked  him  to  give  them  a 
man  to  effect  an  Erub  for  them  in  their  city,         ....         131-140 

MiSHNA  VI.,  VII.  A  man  who  is  at  the  east  of  his  domicile,  telling  his 
son  to  place  his  Erub  towards  the  west,  or  vice  versa.  What  is  meant  by 
"  toward  the  east  "  ?  (and  illustrations).  If  a  town  stands  on  the  steep  banks 
of  a  lake.  The  discussions  about  the  right  of  the  inhabitants  of  Hamtan 
and  Gadar  to  carry  or  go.  The  inhabitants  of  a  large  town  may  traverse  the 
whole  of  a  small  town  (but  not  vice  versa).  Mar  Jeiiudah  observed  that  the 
inhabitants  of  Mabrakhta  placed  their  Erub  in  the  synagogue  of  the  city  of 
Agubar, 140-144 

CHAPTER   VI. 

MiSHNA  I.  One  who  dwells  in  the  same  court  with  a  Gentile,  or  with 
one  who  '-)es  not  acknowledge  the  laws  of  Erub.  The  dwelling  of  a  Gentile, 
as  far  as  tlie  laws  of  Erubin  are  concerned.  May  a  disciple  decide  a 
Halakha  in  the  place  where  his  master  resides?  If  a  slaughtering  knife  is 
brought  to  a  young  scholar  for  examination.  Who  sends  his  gifts  to  one 
priest  to  the  exclusion  of  all  others  brings  famine  into  the  world.  If  several 
Israelites  rented  apartments  from  a  Gentile,  and  one  of  them  forgot  to  make 
an  Erub.  One  who  is  tipsy  should  not  pray.  Prayer  of  one  intoxicated 
considered  as  blasphemy.  A  quarter  of  a  lug  of  Italian  wine  inebriates. 
Three  miles'  walk  required  to  destroy  the  effects  of  wine.  The  night  made 
only  for  sleep,  according  to  one.  The  moon  made  only  to  facilitate  study 
at  night,  according  to  another.  The  cases  in  which  R.  Samuel's  father, 
R.  Samuel,  and  R.  Papa  would  not  pray.  Wine  made  only  for  mourners 
and  to  reward  for  good  deeds  the  wicked  in  this  world.  A  house  where 
wine  flows  not  like  water  cannot  be  classed  among  those  that  are  blessed. 
What  R.  Hanina  bar  Joseph,  R.  Hyya  bar  Abba,  and  R.  Assi  discussed  in 
an  inn,  the  proprietor  of  which  was  a  Gentile.  R.  Hisda's  lips  would  trem- 
ble when  he  met  R.  Shesheth,  because  the  latter  was  versed  in  Mishnaioth 
and  Boraithoth,  while  the  whole  body  of  R.  Shesheth  trembled  when  he  met 
R.  Hisda,  because  of  his  sagacity.  The  discussion  about  warm  water  for  a 
new-born  child.  How  is  it  possible  that  two  such  great  men  made  no  Erub. 
Whether  a  Sadducee  is  considered  the  same  as  a  Gentile,  R.  Gamaliel  and 
the  sages  differ.     There  are  two  kinds  of  Sadducees,  .         .         145-162 

MiSHNAS  II.,  III.,  and  IV.  If  one  of  the  householders  of  a  court  forgets, 
and  does  not  join  in  the  Erub.  From  what  time  is  the  right  to  be  conferred  ? 
If  five  men  inhabited  one  court,  one  must  resign  his  right,  if  he  had  forgot- 
ten to  join  in  the  Erub.  May  an  heir  resign  his  right  or  not?  The  reason 
of  the  difference  between  Beth  Shammai  and  Beth  Hillel  about  the  meaning 
of  resigning  the  right  to  a  place.  The  difference  of  opinion  between  the 
sages  and  R.  Simeon  about  partneiship  in  wine  or  oil.  In  courts  an  Erub 
must  be  made  with  bread,  but  it  is  not  allowed  to  do  so  with  wine.     Diffc"- 


xiv  SYNOPSIS    OF    SUBJECTS. 

ence  between  Beth  Shammai  and  Beth  Hillel  about  five  companies  occupy- 
ing during  Sabbath  one  liall.  Brothers  or  associates  tal<ing  their  meals  at 
one  table  but  sleeping  in  separate  houses.  One  who  has  a  vestibule,  a  gal- 
lery, or  balcony  in  the  court  of  another,  without  an  Erub.  It  happened  that 
an  inhabitant  of  Naph'ha,  who  had  five  courts  in  Uqba,  did  not  join  in  the 
Erub  with  the  inmates  of  the  courts.  What  about  the  disciples  of  the  col- 
lege, eating  in  the  inns  of  the  valley  and  passing  the  night  at  the 
college  ? 162-169 

MiSHNAS  v.,  VI.,  and  VII.  If  five  courts  open  into  each  other  and  an 
alley,  if  they  combined  both  the  courts  and  the  alley,  or  only  one  of  these. 
How  Samuel  was  asked  a  question  and  answered  with  silence.  Does  the 
silence  signify  acquiescence  ?  If  two  courts  were  one  within  the  other,  and 
all  the  inmates  or  one  forgot  to  make  an  Erub  ;  if  the  courts  were  the  prop- 
erty of  an  individual.  If  an  Erub  was  placed  in  the  outer  court  and  one  of 
the  inmates  either  of  the  outer  or  inner  forgot  to  join  in  an  Erub,  carrying  is 
prohibited  ;  and  how  if  it  was  placed  in  one  of  the  inner  courts  ?  If  there 
was  a  third  court  between  the  two,  also  belonging  to  an  individual,  is  it  per- 
mitted to  carry  in  any  of  the  three  ?       170-178 

CHAPTER   VII. 

MiSHNAS  I.,  II.,  III.,  and  IV.  If  there  be  an  aperture,  four  spans  square, 
ttc,  between  two  courts.  If  in  the  attic  of  a  house  there  was  a  hole  for  the 
purpose  of  fastening  a  ladder  therein,  should  the  house  be  considered  solid  ? 
If  there  be  a  wall  ten  spans  high  and  four  spans  wide  between  two  courts. 
If  a  man  comes  to  diminish  the  size  of  the  wall  referred  to  in  the  Mishna. 
An  Egyptian  ladder  does  not  diminish  a  wall,  but  a  ladder  of  Tyre  does.  If 
one  erected  two  benches,  one  above  the  other,  at  the  foot  of  a  wall.  What 
is  the  law  if  several  pegs  be  placed  on  the  pillar  in  question  ?  I  have  a  tra- 
dition that  a  ladder  standing  straight  against  a  wall  also  diminishes  its  size. 
What  is  the  law  if  a  man  used  a  tree,  which  grew  right  at  the  wall,  for  a 
ladder?  If  two  courts  are  separated  by  a  ditch,  ten  spans  deep  and  four 
wide.  "  Thou  wouldst  prove  a  contradiction  from  a  law  pertaining  to  unclean- 
ness  to  a  Sabbath-law?"  If  there  be  between  two  courts  a  straw-rick,  ten 
spans  high.  If  a  house  which  was  filled  with  straw  stand  between  two 
tourts  ? 179-189 

MiSHNAS  v.,  VI.,  VII.,  and  VIII.  How  are  alleys  to  be  combined  ?  If 
alleys  or  legal  limits  are  combined.  Whether  a  transfer  of  ownership  is 
necessary  in  case  of  Erubin  of  cooked  articles.  R.  Zera  was  asked  whether 
it  may  be  rented  from  the  man's  wife.  Note  about  a  misprint  that  has 
existed  since  the  Talmud  has  been  published  and  reprinted.  If  the  quan- 
tity of  food  required  for  the  combination  becomes  diminished.  How  much 
is  this  legal  quantity.  Eighteen  dried  figs  are  sufficient  for  two  meals.  The 
Erub  of  courts  or  combination  of  alleys  may  be  effected  with  all  kinds  of 
nutriment  except  water  and  salt.  Is  it  permitted  to  make  an  Erub  with 
bread  made  of  rice  or  millet?  A  man  may  give  money  to  the  wine-seller 
or  baker  in  order  to  acquire  the  right  to  join  in  the  Erub.  About  a  Meshikha 
to  a  sale  and  its  explanation.  If  additional  inhabitants  came  into  the  alley, 
the  right  of  possession  must  be  transferred  to  them,  .         .         189-197 


SYNOPSIS    OF   SUBJECTS.  xv 

CHAPTER  VIII. 

MiSHNAS  I..  II.,  and  III.  How  are  the  legal  limits  to  be  combined  ?  A 
child  that  is  only  six  years  old  may  go  out  in  the  legal  limits  which  have 
been  combined  by  its  mother.  How  much  is  the  legal  quantity  of  food 
required  to  efifect  the  combination  of  limits  ?  Note  about  coins  and  meas- 
ures mentioned  in  the  Tract.  If  the  inhabitants  of  a  court  and  balcony 
should  have  forgotten  to  combine  an  Erub.  If  there  were  three  ruins  be- 
tween two  houses,  each  house  may  use  the  adjoining  ruin  by  throwing 
therein,  except  the  middle  one  (with  illustrations),       .         .         .         198-204 

MlSHN.\S  IV.,  v.,  VI.,  and  VII.  If  a  man  deposit  his  Erub  for  the  com- 
bination of  courts  in  a  vestibule,  gallery,  or  balcony.  If  a  company  was 
seated  at  table  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath,  the  bread  on  the  table  may  be 
depended  upon  to  serve  as  an  Erub.  If  a  man  leaves  his  house  and  goes  to 
take  his  Sabbath-rest  in  another  town  (without  previously  joining  in  the 
Erub).  If  there  be  a  well  between  two  courts  it  is  not  lawful  to  draw  water. 
If  a  canal  runs  through  a  court  it  is  not  lawful  to  draw  water,  unless  there 
be  a  partition.  If  a  canal  flows  between  two  walls  which  contain  aper- 
tures          204-209 

MiSHNAS  VIII.  and  IX.  If  there  be  a  balcony  above  the  water.  The 
law  concerning  robbery  is  applicable  also  on  Sabbath.  If  the  court  be  less 
than  four  ells  square  it  is  not  permitted  to  pour  water  therein  on  Sabbath, 
unless  a  sewer  is  made.  All  these  regulations  concerning  the  pouring  of 
water  apply  only  to  summer 209-213 

CHAPTER   IX. 

MiSHNAS  I.  and  II.  All  the  roofs  of  a  town  are  considered  one  private 
ground,  provided  there  be  not  one  roof  ten  hands  higher  than  the  rest.  If  a 
man  erected  an  attic  on  top  of  his  house  and  provided  it  with  a  small  door 
four  spans  wide,  he  may  carry  things  in  all  the  roofs.  All  roofs  are  con- 
sidered as  one  private  ground  in  their  own  right.  "  It  happened  in  a  time 
of  danger  that  we  brought  up  the  sacred  scrolls  from  a  court  to  a  roof."  If  a 
large  roof  adjoins  a  small  one.  If  there  are  three  woodsheds  opening  into 
each  other,  of  which  the  two  outer  arc  enclosed  while  the  middle  one  is  not 
(with  illustrations), 214-223 

MiSHNAS  III.,  IV.,  and  V.  If  a  court  (through  an  incavation  of  its  walls) 
is  laid  open  to  public  ground.  In  a  court  (the  corner  walls  of  which  had 
fallen  in  on  Sabbath  so)  that  it  has  been  laid  open  to  public  ground  on  two 
sides.  If  an  attic  be  built  over  two  houses,  also  if  bridges  are  open  at  both 
ends, 223-226 

CHAPTER   X. 

MiSHNAS  I.,  II.,  and  III.  If  a  man  finds  tephilin  on  the  road  he  should 
watch  them  and  bring  them  into  the  nearest  town  or  village  ;  likewise  his 
child  he  should  hand  to  his  companion,  etc.  If  one  buys  tephilin  of  a  man  who 
is  not  an  expert,  he  must  examine  two  tephilin.  How  came  his  child  on  the 
field  or  on  the  road  ?  This  refers  to  a  child  that  was  born  there.  If  a  man 
reads  in  a  scroll  (of  sacred  scriptures)  on  the  threshold  of  the  house  and  it 


xvi  SYiNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

slips  out  of  his  hand.     On  a  ledge  outside  a  window  it  is  permitted  to  place 
vessels, 227-235 

MiSHNAS  IV.,  v.,  VI.,  VII.,  VIII.,  and  IX.  A  man  may  stand  in  private 
ground  and  move  things  that  are  in  public  ground.  A  man  must  not, 
standing  in  private  ground,  drink  in  public  ground.  A  man  may  catch 
water  dropping  from  a  spout  on  the  roof.  If  a  well,  standing  in  public 
ground,  have  an  enclosure  ten  spans  high.  Beneath  a  tree,  the  branches  of 
which  droop  and  cover  the  ground.  The  shutters  of  a  bleaching  ground  or 
thorn  bushes, 235-240 

MiSHNAS  X.  to  XVIII.  A  man  must  not,  standing  in  private  ground, 
unlock  with  a  key  something  in  public  ground.  A  loose  bolt,  with  a  knob 
to  it,  is  prohibited  to  use  on  Sabbath,  A  loose  bolt  that  is  fastened  to  a 
rope  may  be  used  in  the  Temple  only.  In  the  Temple  the  lower  hinge  of  a 
cupboard  door  may  be  refitted  into  its  place.  Priests  who  minister  may 
replace  a  plaster  in  the  Temple.  The  Levites  performing  on  musical  instru- 
ments may  tie  a  string.  The  priests  who  minister  may  remove  a  wart  from 
an  animal  on  Sabbath.  A  ministering  priest  who  hurts  his  finger  may  bind 
it  up  with  reeds  in  the  Temple.  Should  the  carcass  of  a  dead  reptile  be 
found  in  the  Temple  on  the  Sabbath  the  priest  shall  move  it  out  with  his 
belt.  From  which  parts  of  the  Temple  should  it  be  removed  ?  It  is  per- 
mitted for  anyone  to  enter  the  Temple  for  the  purpose  of  building,    240-251 


SYNOPSIS   OF  SUBJECTS 

OF 

VOLUME   IV.— TRACT  SHEKALIM.* 


CHAPTER    I. 


MiSHNA  a  treats  of:  What  were  the  duties  of  the  Beth  Din  in  the  month 
of  Adar  in  the  time  of  the  second  Temple.  When  the  Megillah  (Book  of 
Esther)  was  to  be  read  in  the  fortified  cities.  For  what  purpose  messengers 
were  sent  out,  and  what  were  the  things  to  be  heralded. 

MiSHNA  b  treats  of  :  What  was  the  punishment  for  not  obeying  the  com- 
mandments of  Kelayim  in  the  former  times  and  later. 

MiSHNA  c  deals  with :  When  the  money-changers,  with  their  tables, 
began  their  work  in  the  countries  of  Judea  and  in  Jerusalem.  The  time  for 
pledges  which  were  taken  for  not  paying  the  Shekalim.  From  what  persons 
the  pledges  were  to  be  taken.  If  a  father  might  pay  the  Shekalim  for  his 
children. 

MiSHNA  ^treats  of:  What  ordinance  Ben  Buchri  proclaimed  in  Jamnia 
in  behalf  of  the  priests,  and  what  R.  Johanan  b.  Zakkai  rejoined.  The 
defence  of  the  priests,  with  their  interpretation  of  biblical  passages,  which 
was  accepted  only  for  the  sake  of  peace. 

MiSHNA  e  treats  of:  The  voluntary  payment  of  Shekalim  from  women, 
slaves,  and  minors  being  accepted,  but  not  from  the  heathens  or  Samaritans. 
I5ird-offerings  not  accepted  from  persons  affected  with  venereal  diseases  or 
from  women  after  confinement.  Sin  and  vow  offerings,  however,  were 
accepted  from  the  Samaritans.  The  vow-offerings  were  also  accepted  from 
heathens.     The  general  rule  concerning  this. 

MiSHNA  f  deals  with  :  The  premium  one  had  to  pay  in  addition  to  the 
half-shekel.  Who  was  obliged  to  do  so?  The  different  opinions  of  the 
sages  and  R.  Meir.  How  much  one  had  to  pay  if  given  one  Selah  and  taking 
a  shekel  in  exchange. 

*  See  introduction  to  synopsis  in  Tract  Sabbath,  Vol.  I.,  p.  xxix.  This  tract  has 
no  Gemara.     The  synopsis  contains  the  Mishnas,  with  their  commentaries. 

xiii 


xiv  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

MlSHNA^  treats  of:  The  law  concerning  one  who  pays  for  a  poor  man, 
for  a  neighbor,  and  for  a  countryman.  Law  concerning  brothers  and  part- 
ners paying  together;  also,  law  regarding  cattle-tithe.  How  much  was  the 
premium. 

CHAPTER   II. 

MiSHNA  a.  One  may  put  together  the  Shekalim  and  exchange  them  for 
a  gold  coin  called  Darkon.  Concerning  the  chests  which  were  given  to  the 
collectors  in  the  country  and  at  Jerusalem.  What  is  the  law  if  money  were 
stolen  or  lost  by  the  messengers  of  a  city,  when  a  portion  of  the  Shekalim 
was  already  expended  ;  what  is  the  law  if  not  expended. 

MiSHNA  b.  Concerning  the  law  when  one  gives  his  shekels  to  another  to 
pay  his  head-taxes  for  him  ;  if  he  pays  his  shekels  from  the  money  of  the 
second  tithes  or  from  the  money  of  the  fruit  of  the  Sabbatical  year.  Con- 
cerning how  he  shall  replace  it  and  use  it  for  the  same  purpose. 

MiSHNA  c.  The  law  concerning  one  who  gathered  single  coins  little  by 
little  and  said  :  "With  this  money  I  shall  pay  my  shekels."  The  different 
opinions  of  the  schools  of  Hillel  and  Shamai  in  tliis  matter.  Concerning  the 
same  case  when  one  gathers  money  for  sin-offerings.  What  shall  be  done 
with  the  eventual  remains  of  such  money. 

MiSHNA  d.  Concerning  the  explanauon  of  R.  Simeon  of  the  teachings 
of  the  school  of  Hillel.  The  discussion  of  the  former  with  R.  Jehudah.  The 
claims  of  the  latter  that  the  coins  of  the  Shekalim  were  also  changed  in  times 
and  places.     The  rejoinder  of  R.  Simeon  to  this. 

MiSHNA  e.  The  law  concerning  the  remainder  of  money  intended  for 
Shekalim  when  considered  to  be  ordinary.  Regarding  the  remainder  of  the 
tenth  part  of  an  ephah,  bird-offerings,  and  guilt-offerings  :  what  shall  be  done 
with  it.  A  rule  concerning  this  matter.  Also,  regulations  concerning  the 
remainder  of  Passover  sacrifices,  Nazarite  offerings,  the  remainder  of  moneys 
for  the  poor  in  general  and  individuals,  of  money  for  prisoners,  for  burial  of 
the  dead,  and  R.  Meir  and  R.  Nathan's  opinions  regarding  this  matter, 

CHAPTER   III. 

MiSHNA  a.  Regarding  the  appointed  periods  of  the  year  when  the  money 
was  drawn  from  the  treasury.  The  dififerent  opinions,  concerning  this 
matter,  of  R.  Aqiba  b.  Asai,  R.  Eliezer,  and  R.  Simeon.  The  same  time 
appointed  for  cattle-tithes. 

MiSHNA  b.  Concerning  the  ceremony  of  drawing  the  money  at  all 
periods  of  the  year.  The  law  regarding  measures  of  the  boxes  in  which  tlie 
coins  of  the  Shekalim  were  filled,  and  the  numbers  of  the  chests  in  which 
the  money  was  drawn  from  the  boxes  for  the  expenses  of  the  Temple. 
Which  box  must  be  opened  first,  and  which  last.  What  garments  the  person 
drawing  the  money  must  wear.  How  a  man  must  stand  unblemished  before 
his  fellow-man  and  before  his  God. 

MiSHNA  c.  Concerning  the  custom  of  the  house  of  Rabban  Gamaliel, 
when  the  members  of  the  house  had  paid  their  Shekalim.    The  law  regarding 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  xv 

one  who  drew  money  did  not  commence  until  he  had  said  to  the  bystanders, 
"  I  will  now  draw,"  and  they  answered,  "  Draw,  draw,  draw,"  three  times. 

MiSHNA  d.  Concerning  the  covering  of  tlie  boxes  after  drawing  the 
money.  For  which  countries  the  drawings  were  performed  in  the  first 
period,  the  second,  and  the  third. 

CHAPTER   IV. 

MiSHNA  a.  What  was  done  with  the  money  drawn  ?  Concerning  the 
watchmen  that  were  sent  out  to  guard  the  after-growth  of  the  Sabbatical 
year,  of  which  the  Omer  and  two  loaves  were  taken  for  sacrifice.  The 
opinion  of  R.  Jose  in  this  matter,  and  what  the  rabbis  answered. 

MiSHNA  b.  Concerning  the  red  heifer,  the  goat  that  was  to  be  sent  away, 
the  strip  of  scarlet,  the  bridge  for  the  cow,  the  bridge  for  the  goat,  the  canal, 
the  city  wall,  the  towers,  and  other  necessities  of  the  city  :  all  were  paid  for 
out  of  the  Shekalim  money.     What  Abba  Saul  said. 

MiSHNA  c.  What  was  done  with  the  balance  of  the  money  left  over  in 
the  treasury.  The  discussion  of  R.  Ishmael  and  R.  Aqiba  in  this  matter. 
Some  of  the  many  things  which  are  enumerated  in  the  Palestinian  Talmud 
and  which  were  done  with  this  money.  Among  them  was  the  hiring  of 
teachers  for  priests  to  teach  them  the  laws  of  the  sacrifices. 

MiSHNA  d.  What  was  done  with  the  remainder  of  the  moneys  of  the 
chest.  The  different  opinions  of  R.  Ishmael,  R.  Aqiba,  and  R.  Hanina,  the 
assistant  chief  of  the  priests,  concerning  profit :  if  it  might  be  raised  from 
the  remaining  money  or  not,  and  of  what  money  the  gold  plates  for  the 
decorations  of  the  Holy  of  Holies  were  made.  Also,  concerning  the  benefit 
of  the  altar. 

MiSHNA  e.  What  was  done  with  the  remainder  of  the  incense  (as  the 
incense  of  the  New  Year  must  be  bought  with  the  new  Shekalim  money). 
The  sanctification  of  the  incense  on  hand  then  transferred  to  that  money, 
and  then  redeemed  with  the  money  of  the  new  revenue. 

MiSHNAy.  Concerning  the  law  when  one  devoted  his  entire  possessions 
in  honor  of  the  Lord  :  what  should  be  done  with  them.  The  discussions  of 
R.  Aqiba  and  Ben  Asai  regarding  this  matter. 

MiSHNA^.  Concerning  the  law  when  one  devoted  his  possessions,  and 
among  them  were  cattle,  male  and  female,  fit  for  the  altar.  The  discussions 
of  this  matter  between  R.  Eliezer  and  R.  Jehoshua.  R.  Aqiba  is  inclined 
to  the  opinion  of  R.  Eliezer,  which  seems  to  him  to  be  more  proper,  but  adds 
that  he  had  heard  that  both  opinions  were  right  according  to  circumstances. 

MiSHNA  h.  If  one  devote  his  possessions,  and  among  them  are  things 
fit  for  the  altar,  such  as  wines,  oils,  and  birds,  what  should  be  done  with 
them.     R.  Eliezer  decreed  it,  and  no  one  opposed  him. 

MiSHNA  i.  Contractors,  for  the  delivery  of  all  things  for  the  altar  and 
♦he  improvements  of  the  Temple,  were  appointed  every  month  ;  but  if  the 


xvi  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

prices  changed  during  the  thirty  days,  the  Sanctuary  must  not  suffer  any 
injury.  Such  was  the  agreement  made  between  them.  The  illustration 
of  this. 

CHAPTER  V. 

MiSHNA  a.  Concerning  some  names  of  the  offices  and  the  heads  of  them 
in  the  Sanctuary  during  the  entire  period  when  the  second  Temple  was  in 
existence.     What  were  the  officers'  duties,  and  how  they  officiated. 

MiSHNA  i>.  Concerning  the  order  of  the  head  officers  ;  namely,  the  king, 
the  high  priest,  his  assistant,  two  catholicoses,  and  seven  chamberlains,  not 
less  than  two  officers  being  put  in  charge  of  public  moneys. 

MiSHNA  c.  Regarding  the  seals  that  were  in  the  Sanctuary,  serving  for 
the  beverages  and  meat-offerings  which  must  be  brought,  according  to  the 
Bible,  with  every  sacrifice.  Concerning  the  inscription  on  the  seals  and 
their  usage.  Ben  Azai  added  one  seal  for  the  poor  sinner.  The  names  of 
the  officers,  of  the  seal-keeper  and  the  officer  who  sells  the  above  offerings. 

MiSHNA  ^.  The  date  must  be  put  on  every  seal.  The  law  regarding 
surplus  money  being  found  in  the  treasury  of  the  seal-keeper  :  to  whom  it 
belongs  ;  and  if  a  deficit,  who  must  supply  it. 

MiSHNA  e.  The  law  concerning  one  who  lost  his  seal  ;  what  must  be 
done. 

MiSHNA  /.  Concerning  the  two  chambers  in  the  Sanctuary,  of  which 
one  was  called  "  Chamber  of  Silence"  and  the  other  "Chamber  of  Utensils." 
What  was  done  there,  during  what  time  they  were  investigated,  and  what 
was  done  with  the  presented  utensils  which  were  useless  for  the  Temple. 

CHAPTER   VI. 

MiSHNA  a.  Concerning  the  thirteen  covered  chests  and  thirteen  tables 
which  were  in  the  Sanctuary.  How  many  prostrations  took  place  in  the 
Sanctuary.  How  R.  Gamaliel  and  R.  Hanina,  assistant  chief  of  the  high 
priest,  added  one  in  the  place  where  the  ark  was  hidden. 

MiSHNA  d.  Relates  how  a  blemished  priest  who  was  engaged  in  select- 
ing and  peeling  wood  had  noticed  the  place  where  the  ark  was  hidden,  but 
before  he  had  time  to  tell  it  to  the  others  he  expired. 

MiSHNA  c.  Concerning  the  directions  where  the  prostrations  were 
made.  How  many  gates  were  in  the  Temple  :  their  names,  and  why  they 
were  so  named  ;  also,  different  opinions  of  the  sages  concerning  this. 
There  were  two  gates  which  were  nameless. 

MiSHNA  d.  Of  what  material  the  thirteen  tables  were  made,  where  they 
stood,  for  what  purpose  they  were  used.  Concerning  the  golden  table  in 
the  Temple  itself,  upon  which  the  showbreads  were  constantly  lying. 

MiSHNA  e.  Concerning  the  inscriptions  on  the  thirteen  covered  chests 
in  the  Sanctuary,  and  what  was  done  with  them.  The  different  opinions  of 
R.  Jehudah  and  the  sages  as  to  using  certain  money  put  in  some  chests. 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  xvii 

MiSHNA  /.  Concerning  the  amount  of  articles  to  be  furnished  in  pay- 
ment of  a  vow  one  made,  who  did  not  explain  how  much  he  intended  to 
give  ;  for  instance,  wood,  incense,  gold  coins,  etc.  A  rule  that  was  made 
concerning  this.     The  hides  of  all  sacrifices  belong  to  the  priest. 


CHAPTER   VII. 

MlSHNA  a.  If  money  was  found  in  between  the  differently  marked 
rhests,  to  which  chest  the  money  belonged.  Concerning  this  the  rule  was: 
One  must  be  guided  by  the  proximity,  even  in  the  case  of  the  less  impor- 
tant, etc. 

MiSHNA  b.  Concerning  money  found  in  Jerusalem,  in  the  court  of  the 
Temple,  in  the  times  of  the  Festivals  and  in  the  ordinary  times. 

MiSHNA  c.  Concerning  meat  found  in  the  court  of  the  Temple,  in  the 
city,  and  any  place  where  Israelites  resided  and  where  Gentiles  and  Israel- 
ites together  resided. 

MiSHNA  d.  Concerning  cattle  found  between  Jerusalem  and  Migdal 
Eder,  and  in  the  vicinity  of  the  city  in  all  directions  :  what  the  law  pre- 
scribes.    The  different  opinions  of  some  sages. 

MiSHNA  e.  Relates  how,  in  former  days,  the  finder  of  such  cattle  was 
pledged  to  bring  drink-offerings,  and  how  afterwards  the  high  court  decreed 
to  furnish  them  from  the  public  moneys. 

MiSHNAS/and  ^.  R.  Simeon  named  seven  decrees  which  were  promul- 
gated by  the  high  court,  and  the  above  decree  was  one  of  them.  R.  Jehudah, 
however,  does  not  agree  on  some  points  with  him.  R.  Jose  hag  also  some- 
thing to  say  about  this. 

CHAPTER   VIII. 

MiSHNA  a.  Concerning  streets  in  which  people  must  walk  during  the 
time  of  the  Festival  in  Jerusalem,  for  the  sake  of  cleanness.  The  different 
opinions,  in  this  matter,  of  R.  Meir  and  the  sages. 

MiSHNA  b.  Regarding  utensils  found  on  the  way  towards  the  plunge- 
baths  :  if  they  are  clean  or  not,  and  the  different  opinions  of  R.  Meir  and 
R.  Jose. 

MiSHNA  c.  Regarding  the  butcher-knife,  if  it  was  found  in  the  street  on 
tlie  14th  of  Nissan  ;  and  what  is  the  case  if  the  14th  falls  on  a  Sabbath. 

MiSHNA  d.  Concerning  where  the  curtain  of  the  Sanctuary  must  be 
submerged  if  it  become  defiled.  The  first  time  it  was  submerged  it  was 
spread  out  for  the  people  to  admire  the  beauty  of  the  work. 

MiSHNA  e.  What  Rabban  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  had  to  tell  in  the  name  of 
Simeon,  the  son  of  the  assistant  high  priest.  How  the  curtain  was  made  : 
the  great  amount  of  the  cost  and  how  many  hundred  priests  were  required 
to  submerge  it. 


xviii  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

MiSHNA/.  If  meat  of  the  Holy  of  Holies  became  defiled,  where  it  must 
be  burned.  The  different  opinions  of  the  schools  of  Shamai  and  Hillel  on 
this  point. 

MlSHNA^.  The  different  opinions  of  R.  Eliezer  and  R.  Aqiba  concern- 
ing- anything  that  had  become  defiled  through  a  principal  uncleanness. 

MiSHNA  h.  The  joints  of  the  daily  sacrifices,  where  they  were  laid  down  ; 
the  sacrifices  of  the  new  moon,  where  they  were  placed.  The  payment  of 
Shekalim,  if  it  was  obligatory  after  the  destruction  of  the  Temple.  The  same 
law  regarding  cattle-tithe,  tithes  of  grain,  and  deliverance  of  the  firstlings. 
The  law  if  one  sanctified  Shekalim  or  firstlings  ?,fter  the  destruction  of  the 
Temple. 


SYNOPSIS  OF  SUBJECTS 

OF 

TRACT    ROSH    HASHANA* 


CHAPTER   I. 


MiSHNA  I.  The  first  Mishna  ordains  New  Year's  Days,  viz.:  For  kings, 
ibr  the  cattle-tithe,  for  ordinary  years,  and  for  the  planting  of  trees.  A  king 
who  ascends  the  throne  on  the  29th  of  Adar  must  be  considered  to  have 
reigned  one  year  as  soon  as  the  first  of  Nissan  comes.  The  Exodus  from 
Egypt  is  reckoned  from  Nissan.  When  Aaron  died  Sihon  was  still  living. 
He  heard  that  Aaron  was  dead  and  that  the  clouds  of  glory  had  departed. 
The  rule  about  Nissan  only  concerned  the-kings  of  Israel ;  but  for  the  kings 
of  other  nations,  they  reckoned  from  Tishri.  Cyrus  was  a  most  upright 
king,  and  the  Hebrews  reckoned  his  years  as  they  did  those  of  the  kings 
of  Israel.  One  is  guilty  of  procrastination.  Charity,  tithes,  the  glean- 
ings of  the  field,  that  which  is  forgotten  to  be  gathered  in  the  field,  the 
produce  of  corners  of  the  field. 

One  is  culpable  if  he  does  not  give  forthwith  that  which  he  has  vowed  for 
charity.  In  the  case  of  charity  it  must  be  given  immediately,  for  the  poor 
are  always  to  be  found.  The  Feast  of  Weeks  falls  on  the  fifth,  sixth,  or 
seventh  of  Sivan. 

How  the  law  against  delay  affects  a  woman.  In  which  month  is  grain  in 
the  early  stage  of  ripening?  Only  in  the  month  of  Nissan.  It  is  also  the 
New  Year  for  leap-year  and  forgiving  the  half-shekels.  Congregational  sac- 
rifices brought  on  the  first  of  Nissan  should  be  purchased  with  the  shekels 
raised  for  the  New  Year.  He  who  lets  a  house  to  another  for  a  year  must 
count  (the  year)  as  twelve  months  from  day  to  day  ;  but  if  the  lessee  says  (I 
rent  this  house)  "  for  this  year,"  even  if  the  transaction  takes  place  on  the 
first  of  Adar,  as  soon  as  the  first  of  Nissan  arrives  the  year  (of  rental)  has 
expired.  The  first  of  Tishri  is  the  New  Year  for  divine  judgment.  At  the 
beginning  of  the  year  it  is  determined  what  shall  be  at  the  end  of  the  year. 
The  Supreme  Court  in  Heaven  does  not  enter  into  judgment  until  the  Beth 

•  Sec  introduction  to  synopsis  of  Tract  Sabbath,  Vol.  I.,  p.  xxix. 
xxiii 


xxiv  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

Din  on  earth  proclaims  the  new  moon.  Israel  enters  for  judgment  first.  If 
a  king  and  a  congregation  have  a  lawsuit,  the  king  enters  first.  From  New 
Year's  Day  until  the  Day  of  Atonement,  slaves  used  not  to  return  to  their 
(own)  homes  ;  neither  did  they  serve  their  masters,  but  they  ate  and  drank 
and  rejoiced,  with  the  crown  of  freedom  on  their  heads.  R.  Eliezer  says, 
that  the  world  was  created  in  Tishri.  R.  Joshua  says,  that  the  world  was 
created  in  Nissan.  Says  R.  Joshua,  God  grants  the  righteous  the  fulfilment 
of  the  years  of  their  life  to  the  very  month  and  day.  Sarah,  Rachel,  and 
Hannah  were  visited  on  New  Year's  Day.  Joseph  was  released  from  prison 
on  New  Year's  Day.  On  New  Year's  Day  the  bondage  of  our  fathers  in 
Egypt  ceased.  The  Jewish  sages  fix  the  time  of  the  flood  according  to  R. 
Eliezer,  and  the  solstices  according  to  R.  Joshua ;  but  the  sages  of  other 
nations  fix  the  time  of  the  flood  also  as  R.  Joshua  does.  Whoso  vows  to 
derive  no  benefit  from  his  neighbor  for  a  year  must  reckon  (for  the  year) 
twelve  months,  from  day  to  day  ;  but  if  he  said  "  for  this  year,"  if  he  made 
the  vow  even  on  the  twenty-ninth  of  Elul,  as  soon  as  the  first  of  Tishri 
comes  that  year  is  complete.  The  New  Year  for  giving  tithes  is  for  a  tree 
from  the  time  the  fruits  form  ;  for  grain  and  olives,  when  they  are  one-third 
ripe  ;  and  for  herbs,  when  they  are  gathered.  R.  Aqiba  picked  the  fruit  of 
a  citron-tree  on  the  first  of  Shebhat  and  gave  two  tithes  of  them,        .       1-20 

MiSHNA  II.  At  four  periods  in  each  year  the  world  is  judged.  All  are 
judged  on  New  Year's  Day  and  the  sentence  is  fixed  on  the  Day  of  Atone- 
ment. R.  Nathan  holds  man  is  judged  at  all  times.  God  said :  "  Offer  before 
Me  the  first  sheaf  of  produce  on  Passover,  so  that  the  standing  grain  may  be 
blessed  unto  you.  Recite  before  Me  on  New  Year's  Day  the  Malkhioth, 
that  you  proclaim  Me  King  ;  the  Zikhronoth,  that  your  remembrance  may 
come  before  Me,  for  good,  and  how  (shall  this  be  done)  ?"  By  the  sounding 
of  the  cornet.  Three  circumstances  cause  a  man  to  remember  his  sins. 
Four  things  avert  the  evil  decree  passed  (by  God)  on  man  ;  viz.,  charity, 
prayer,  change  of  name,  and  improvement.  Some  add  to  these  four  a  fifth 
— change  of  location.  Three  books  are  opened  on  New  Year's  Day  :  one 
for  the  entirely  wicked,  one  for  the  wholly  good,  and  one  for  the  average 
class  of  people.  The  school  of  Hillel  says :  The  most  compassionate 
inclines  (the  scale  of  justice)  to  the  side  of  mercy.  Who  are  those  who 
inspire  their  fellowmen  with  dread  of  them  ?  A  leader  of  a  community 
who  causes  the  people  to  fear  him  over-much,  without  furthering  thereby  a 
high  purpose.  The  legend  how  R.  Joshua  fell  sick  and  R.  Papa  went  to 
visit  him.  The  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  wrapped  Himself,  as  does  one 
who  recites  the  prayers  for  a  congregation,  and  pointing  out  to  Moses  the 
regular  order  of  prayer,  said  to  him :  "  Whenever  Israel  sins,  let  him  pray  to 
Me  after  this  order,  and  I  shall  pardon  him."  Prayer  is  helpful  for  man 
before  or  after  the  decree  has  been  pronounced.  The  legend  of  a  certain 
family  in  Jerusalem  whose  members  died  at  eighteen  years  of  age.  They 
came  and  informed  R.  Johanan  ben  Zakkai.  The  Creator  sees  all  their 
hearts  (at  a  glance)  and  (at  once)  understands  all  their  works,        .         20-28 

MiSHNA  III.  Messengers  were  sent  out  in  the  following  six  months  :  in 
Nissan,  Abb,  Elul,  Tishri,  Kislev,  and   in  Adar.     The  legend  of  the  king 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECT^,..  xxv 

(of  Syria  who  had  earlier)  issued  a  decree  forbidding  the  study  of  the  Torah 
among  the  Israelites,  or  to  circumcise  their  sonsTand'compelling  them  to 
desecrate  their  Sabbath.  Judah  b.  Shamua  and  his  friends  cried  aloud  :  "  O 
heavens  !  Are  we  not  all  brethren  ?  Are  we  not  all  the  children  of  one 
Father  ?  "  etc.  Samuel  said  :  "  I  can  arrange  the  calendar  for  the  whole  cap- 
tivity." Rabha  used  to  fast  two  days  for  the  Day  of  Atonement.  Once  it 
happened  that  he  was  right, 29-34 

MiSHNAS  IV.  to  VII.  For  the  sake  of  (the  new  moon),  of  the  two  months 
Nissan  and  Tishri,  witnesses  may  profane  the  Sabbath.  Formerly  they  pro- 
faned the  Sabbath  for  all  (new  moons),  but  since  the  destruction  of  the 
Temple  they  instituted  that  (witnesses)  might  profane  the  Sabbath  only  on 
account  of  Nissan  and  Tishri.  It  once  happened  that  more  than  forty  pair 
(of  witnesses)  were  on  the  highway  (to  Jerusalem)  on  the  Sabbath.  Shagbar, 
the  superintendent  of  Gader,  detained  them,  and  (when)  R.  Gamaliel  (heard 
of  it,  he)  sent  and  dismissed  him.  It  once  happened,  that  Tobias  the  physi- 
cian, his  son,  and  his  freed  slave  saw  the  new  moon  in  Jerusalem.  The 
explanation  of  the  passage  Exodus  xii.  I,  by  R.  Simeon  and  the  rabbis. 
Who  are  incompetent  witnesses  ?     Gamblers  with  dice,  etc.,  .         .        34-36 

CHAPTER   II. 

MiSHNAS  I.  to  IV.  If  the  Beth  Din  did  not  know  (the  witness),  another 
was  sent  with  him  to  testify  in  his  behalf.  It  once  happened  that  R.  Nehorai 
went  to  Usha  on  the  Sabbath  to  testify  (to  the  character)  of  one  witness. 
Tlie  legend  how  the  Boethusians  appointed  false  witnesses.  Formerly  bon- 
fires were  lighted  (to  announce  the  appearance  of  the  new  moon)  ;  but  when 
the  Cutheans  practised  their  deceit  it  was  ordained  that  messengers  should 
be  sent  out.  There  are  four  kinds  of  cedars.  The  whole  country  looked 
like  a  blazing  fire.  Each  Israelite  took  a  torch  in  his  hand  and  ascended  to 
the  roof  of  his  house.  Great  feasts  were  made  for  (the  witnesses)  in  order 
to  induce  them  to  come  frequently.  How  were  the  witnesses  examined  ? 
The  sun  never  faces  the  concave  of  the  crescent  or  the  concave  of  a  rain- 
bow. (If  the  witnesses  say)  "We  have  seen  the  reflection  (of  the  moon)  in 
the  water,  or  through  a  metal  mirror,  or  in  the  clouds,"  "  their  testimony  is 
not  to  be  accepted."  The  chief  of  the  Beth  Din  says  :  "  It  (the  new  moon) 
is  consecrated,"  and  all  the  people  repeated  after  Him  :  "  It  is  consecrated, 
it  is  consecrated."  Pelimo  teaciies  :  "  When  the  new  moon  appeared  at  its 
proper  time,  they  used  not  to  consecrate  it,"   .....         37-42 

MiSHNAS  V.  and  VI.  R.  Gamaliel  had  on  a  tablet,  and  on  the  wall  of  his 
upper  room,  illustrations  of  the  various  phases  of  the  moon.  Is  this  per- 
mitted ?  Yea,  he  had  them  made  to  teach  by  means  of  them.  It  happened 
once,  that  two  witnesses  came  and  said  :  "We  saw  the  moon  in  the  east- 
ern part  in  the  morning  and  in  the  western  part  in  the  evening."  R.  Johanan 
b.  Nuri  declared  them  to  be  false  witnesses.  Two  other  witnesses  came  and 
said:  "We  saw  the  moon  on  its  proper  day,  but  could  not  see  it  on  the 
next  evening."  R.Gamaliel  received  them  ;  but  R.  Dosa  b.  Harkhinas  said  : 
"They  are  false  witnesses."     R.Joshua  approved  his  opinion.     Upon  this, 


xxvi  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

Gamaliel  ordered  the  former  to  appear  before  him  on  the  Day  of  Atonement, 
according  to  his  computation,  with  his  staff  and  with  money.  What  R. 
Joshua  did,  and  what  R.  Aqiba  and  R.  Dosa  b.  Harkhinas  said  about  it. 
What  R.  Hiyya  said  when  he  saw  the  old  moon  yet  on  the  morning  of  the 
twenty-ninth  day.  Rabbi  said  to  R.  Hiyya:  "Go  to  Entob  and  consecrate 
the  month,  and  send  back  to  me  as  a  password,  '  David  the  King  of  Israel 
still  lives.'"  The  consecration  of  the  moon  cannot  take  place  at  a  period  less 
than  twenty-nine  and  a  half  days,  two-thirds  and  .0052  {i.e.,  seventy-three 
Halaqim)  of  an  hour.  Even  if  the  commonest  of  the  common  is  appointed 
leader  by  a  community,  he  must  be  considered  as  the  noblest  of  the  nobility. 
A  judge  is  to  be  held,  "in  his  days,"  equal  in  authority  with  the  greatest  of 
his  antecedents.  Gamaliel  said  to  R.  Joshua:  "Happy  is  the  generation 
in  which  the  leaders  listen  to  their  followers,  and  through  this  the  followers 
consider  it  so  much  the  more  their  duty  (to  heed  the  teachings  of  the 
leaders)," 42-44 


CHAPTER   III. 

MiSHNA  I.  If  the  Beth  Din  and  all  Israel  saw  (the  moon  on  the  night 
of  the  thirtieth  day),  but  there  was  no  time  to  proclaim,  "It  is  consecrated," 
before  it  has  become  dark,  the  month  is  intercalary.  When  three  who 
formed  a  Beth  Din  saw  it,  two  should  stand  up  as  witnesses  and  substitute 
two  of  their  learned  friends  with  the  remaining  one  (to  form  a  Beth  Din). 
No  greater  authority  than  Moses,  our  master,  yet  God  said  to  him  that  Aaron 
should  act  with  him.  No  witness  of  a  crime  may  act  as  judge,  but  in  civil 
cases  he  may,    ...........        45-4^ 

MiSHNAS  II.  to  IV.  Concerning  what  kind  of  cornets  may  be  used  on 
New  Year's  and  Jubilee  days.  Some  words  in  the  Scripture  which  the 
rabbis  could  not  explain,  until  they  heard  the  people  speak  among  them- 
selves. The  cornet  used  on  the  New  Year  was  a  straight  horn  of  a  wild 
goat,  the  mouthpiece  covered  with  gold.  The  Jubilee  and  the  New  Year's 
Day  were  alike  in  respect  to  the  sounding  (of  the  cornet)  and  the  benedic- 
tions, but  R.  Jehudah's  opinion  was  different.  R.  Jehudah  holds  that  on 
New  Year's  Day  the  more  bent  in  spirit  a  man  is,  and  on  the  Day  of  Atone- 
ment the  more  upright  he  is  (in  his  confessions),  the  better  ;  but  R.  Levi 
holds  the  contrary.  "  On  the  fast  days  two  crooked  ram's-horns  were  used, 
their  mouthpieces  being  covered  with  silver."  According  to  whom  do  we 
nowadays  pray  :  "  This  day  celebrates  the  beginning  of  thy  work,  a  memo- 
rial of  the  first  day  "  ?  It  is  unlawful  to  use  a  cornet  that  has  been  split  and 
afterwards  joined  together.  If  one  should  happen  to  pass  by  a  synagogue, 
or  live  close  by  it  and  should  hear  the  cornet,  he  will  have  complied  with 
the  requirements  of  the  law.  If  one  covered  a  cornet  on  the  inside  with 
gold  it  might  not  be  used.  If  one  heard  a  part  of  (the  required  number  of) 
the  sounds  of  the  cornet  in  the  pit,  and  the  rest  at  tlie  pit's  mouth,  he  has 
done  !iis  duty.  If  one  blew  the  first  sound  (Teqia),  and  prolonged  the 
second  (Teqia)  as  long  as  two,  it  is  only  reckoned  as  one.  If  one  who 
listened  (to  the  sounds  of  the  cornel)  paid  the  proper  attention,  but  he  that 


SYNOPSIS    OF   SUBJECTS.  xxvii 

blew  the  cornet  did  not,  or  vice  versa,  they  have  not  done  their  duty  until 
both  blower  and  listener  pay  proper  attention.  If  special  attention  in  fulfil- 
ling a  commandment  or  doing  a  transgression  is  necessary  or  not.  As  long 
as  Israel  looked  to  Heaven  for  aid,  and  directed  their  hearts  devoutly  to 
their  Father  in  Heaven,  they  prevailed  ;  but  when  they  ceased  to  do  so,  they 
failed.  All  are  obliged  to  hear  the  sounding  of  the  cornet,  priests,  Levites, 
and  Israelites,  proselytes,  freed  slaves,  a  monstrosity,  a  hermaphrodite,  and 
one  who  is  half-slave  and  half-free.  One  may  not  say  the  benediction  over 
bread  for  guests  unless  he  eats  with  them,  but  he  may  for  the  members  of 
the  family,  to  initiate  them  into  their  religious  duties,     .        .         .        46-52 


CHAPTER   IV. 

MiSHNAS  I.  to  IV.  Regarding  if  the  New  Year  fall  on  Sabbath.  Where 
the  shofer  (cornet)  should  be  blown  after  the  Temple  was  destroyed.  What 
was  the  difference  between  Jamnia  and  Jerusalem  ?  Once  it  happened  that 
New  Year's  Day  fell  on  the  Sabbath,  and  all  the  cities  gathered  together. 
Said  R.  Johanan  b.  Zakkai  to  the  Benai  Betherah  :  "  Let  us  sound  (the 
cornet)!"  "First,"  said  they,  "  let  us  discuss!"  R.  Johanan  b.  Zakkai 
ordained  that  the  palm-branch  should  everywhere  be  taken  seven  days,  in 
commemoration  of  the  Temple.  Since  the  destruction  of  the  Temple,  R. 
Johanan  b.  Zakkai  ordained  that  it  should  be  prohibited  (to  eat  of  the  new 
produce)  the  whole  of  the  day  of  waving  (the  sheaf-offering).  Once  the  wit- 
nesses were  delayed  in  coming,  and  they  disturbed  the  song  of  the  Levites. 
They  then  ordained  that  evidence  should  only  be  received  until  (the  time 
of)  the  afternoon  service.  Concerning  what  songs  the  Levites  had  to  sing 
every  day  from  the  Psalms.  What  did  the  Levites  sing  when  the  additional 
sacrifices  were  being  offered  on  the  Sabbath  ?  What  did  they  sing  at  the 
Sabbath  afternoon  service  ?  According  to  tradition,  a  corresponding 
number  of  times  was  the  Sanhedrin  exiled.  The  witnesses  need  only  go  to 
the  meeting  place  (of  the  Beth  Din).  Priests  may  not  ascend  the  platform  in 
sandals,  to  bless  the  people  ;  and  this  is  one  of  the  nine  ordinances  instituted 
by  R.  Johanan  b.  Zakkai, 53-57 

MiSHNA  V.  Regarding  the  order  of  the  benedictions  on  New  Year's 
Day  at  the  morning  prayer,  additional  prayers,  and  at  what  time  the  cornet 
must  be  blown,  etc.  What  passages  from  the  Scriptures  are  selected  for 
additional  prayers  on  New  Year's  Day.  To  what  do  the  ten  scriptural  pas- 
sages used  for  the  Malkhioth  correspond  ?  How  many  passages  must  be 
recited  from  Pentateuch,  Prophets,  and  Hagiographa?  We  must  not  men- 
tion the  remembrance  of  the  individual  (in  the  Zikhronothj,  even  if  the 
passage  speaks  of  pleasant  things.  What  are  the  passages  which  must  be 
said  in  the  benediction  of  Malkhioth,  Zikhronoth,  and  the  Shophroth  ?  R. 
Elazar  b.  R.  Jose  says  :  "  The  Vathiqin  used  to  conclude  with  a  passage 
from  the  Pentateuch."  "  Hear,  O  Israel,  the  Lord  our  God  is  our  Lord," 
may  be  used  in  the  Malkhioth.  The  second  of  those  who  act  as  ministers  of 
the  congregation  on  the  Feast  of  New  Year  shall  cause  another  to  sound  the 
cornet  on  days  when  the  Hallel  (Service  of  Praise,  Ps.  cxiii.-cxviii.)  is  read. 


xxviii  S^VNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

We  are  permitted  to  occupy  ourselves  with  teaching-  (children)  until  they 
learn  (to  sound  the  cornet),  even  on  the  Sabbath.  The  order,  and  how^ 
many  times  it  must  be  blown  ;  also,  the  different  sounds  and  the  names  of 
them.  How  all  this  is  deduced  from  the  Bible,  and  the  difTerence  of  opinions 
between  the  sages.  Generally  the  soundings  of  the  cornet  do  not  interfere 
with  each  other,  nor  do  the  benedictions,  but  on  New  Year's  Day  and  the  Day 
of  Atonement  they  do.  R.  Papa  b.  Samuel  rose  to  recite  his  prayers.  Said  he 
to  his  attendant,  "When  I  nod  to  you,  sound  (the  cornet)  for  me."  Rabha 
said  to  him,  that  this  may  only  be  done  in  the  congregation.  A  man  should 
always  first  prepare  himself  for  prayer,  and  then  pray.  R.  Jehudah  prayed 
only  once  in  thirty  days,  ,        .        ,  _ 57-66 


SYMOPSIS  OF  SUBJECTS 


VOLUME  v.— TRACT  PESACHIM.* 


CHAPTER  I. 

MiSHNA  I.  What  is  meant  by  Or  ?  The  explanation  of  the  phrase  (Job 
Kxiv.  14),  "  with  the  earliest  light.''  At  no  time  should  a  man  allow  an  ill- 
sounding  word  to  escape  from  his  mouth.  What  the  two  disciples  of  Rabh 
and  R.  Johanan  b.  Zakkai  said  :  Go  and  report  it  to  the  horses.  If  a  house 
was  rented  and  it  is  not  known  whether  the  leavened  bread  had  been 
searched  for.  If  a  man  leave  his  house  and  intend  to  return  on  the  Pass- 
over. Two  things  are  without  the  province  of  man.  If  musty  bread  was 
found  in  a  chest.  By  what  light  search  for  leavened  bread  must  be  made. 
Whether  wine-cellars  have  to  be  searched, 1-14 

MiSHNAS  II.,  III.,  IV.,  V.  If  a  man  leaves  ten  pieces  of  bread  and  finds 
nine,  or  nine  iieaps  of  Matzoth,  and  one  heap  of  Chometz,  and  finds  ten. 
When  search  for  Chometz  must  be  made.  The  reason  why  Chometz  must  be 
removed  on  the  fourteenth  of  Nissan.  If  a  Gentile  came  into  the  court  of  an 
Israelite  on  Passover.  Of  the  Gentile  who  stored  a  basketful  of  Chometz 
with  Johanan  Hakuka.  The  two  thanksgiving-offering  cakes  laid  on  the 
benches.  What  R.  Hanina  the  Sagan  of  the  priests  said.  If  there  were 
doubtful  beverages, 14-29 

CHAPTER    II. 

MiSHNA  I.  What  one  may  do  as  long  as  it  is  lawful  to  eat  unleavened 
bread.  Why  the  Mishna  enumerates  domestic  and  wild  animals.  Whence 
we  know  lliat  no  benefit  may  be  derived  from  leaven  on  Passover.  Wher- 
ever it  is  written,  "  Ye  sliall  not  eat,"  the  object  in  question  must  not  even  be 
used.  By  means  of  what  a  man  is  permitted  to  cure  himself  when  in  danger. 
A  man  must  rather  permit  himself  to  be  slain  than  to  slay  another.  Accord- 
ing to  whom  the  Halakha  prevails  when  Rabbi  differs  with  an  individual  or 
the  majority,      .         .         0 30-41 

*  See  introduction  to  the  synopsis  in  Tract  Sabbath,  Vol,  I.,  p.  xxix. 

vii 


viii  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

MiSHNAS  II.,  III.,  IV.,  v.,  VI.  Concerning  leaven  belonging  to  a  Gentile. 
Whether  a  man  may  eat  the  leaven  of  a  Gentile.  Whether  earthenware  pots 
used  nuring  the  year  must  be  destroyed  before  Passover.  About  an  oven 
greased  ^vith  fat  immediately  after  it  had  been  heated.  If  a  Gciitilc  lent 
money  to  an  Israelite,  taking  as  security  leavened  articles,  and  vice  versa. 
About  leaven  covered  by  ruins.  About  leavened  heave-offering.  Whether 
leavened  articles  have  a  pecuniary  value  on  Passover.  With  which  articles  a 
person  acquits  himself  of  the  duty  of  eating  unleavened  bread  on  Passover. 
Whether  one  can  acquit  himself  of  the  duty  with  bread  kneaded  with  wine, 
oil,  or  honey.  What  is  meant  by  bread  of  affliction.  Why  it  is  not  allowed 
to  prepare  figured  cakes  on  Passover,       ......         41-59 

MiSHNAS  VII.  to  IX.  The  duty  of  eating  bitter  herbs  on  the  Passover. 
Whether  lettuce  is  to  be  preferred  to  other  bitter  herbs.  About  soaking 
bran  on  Passover  to  feed  fowLs.  Where  the  mother  of  Mar  b.  Rabhina 
bought  her  wheat  for  her  son.  Whether  it  is  lawful  to  put  flour  into  sauce 
or  mustard.  Whether  it  is  lawful  to  cook  the  paschal  lamb  after  it  has  been 
roasted.     With  which  kind  of  water  may  a  woman  knead  the  dough,     59-67 

CHAPTER   III. 

MiSHNAS  I.  to  V.  Whether  Babylonian  Kuthach,  Median  beer,  etc.,  may 
be  used  on  Passover.  About  the  paste  used  by  scribes.  Whether  women  are 
held  to  be  equal  to  men  in  regard  to  prohibitory  laws.  About  dough  in  the 
holes  or  crevices  of  a  kneading-trough.  About  dull  dough.  How  the  first 
'of  the  dough  due  to  the  priest  can  be  separated  on  the  Passover.  About 
the  three  women  who  may  knead  dough  for  Passover,    .         .         .         68-77 

MiSHNAS  VI.,  VII.,  VIII.  About  dough  which  commences  to  become 
leavened.  If  the  fourteenth  of  Nissan  fall  on  the  Sabbath,  what  must  be 
done.  When  one  going  to  fulfil  a  religious  duty  on  the  eve  of  Passover 
recollects  that  he  has  Chometz  left  at  home.  In  which  case  may  a  scholar 
enjoy  his  meal.  For  what  meritorious  purpose  a  man  should  sell  all  his  pos- 
sessions. What  R.  Aqiba  said  about  a  scholar  when  he  was  ignorant. 
What  sentiment  a  man  who  occupies  himself  with  study  of  the  law  evokes  in 
the  heart  of  a  common  person.  Why  it  is  written  that  the  Lord  will  be  one, 
and  His  name  will  be  one  on  ihat  day,  and  not  at  present,     .        .         77-^3 

CHAPTER  IV. 
MiSHNAS  I.,  II.,  III.,  IV.  How  a  man  should  conduct  himself  who 
removes  from  a  place  where  a  thing  is  allowed  to  a  place  where  it  is  not 
allowed,  or  vice  versa.  If  one  depends  on  the  earnings  of  his  wife.  Those 
who  write  scrolls,  etc.,  or  sell  them,  etc.,  do  not  perceive  any  blessing  for 
their  work.  What  Rabba  bar  bar  Hana  said  to  his  son.  What  R.  Johanan 
b.  Elazar  related.  May  we,  being  versed  in  the  calendar,  do  work  on  the 
second  day  of  a  festival  in  exile  ?  Whether  roasted  meat  may  be.  eaten  on 
the  night  of  Passover.  What  justified  Hananiah,  Mishael,  and  Azariah  to 
permit  themselves  to  be  thrown  into  the  fiery  furnace.  When  the  fire  of 
Gehenna  was  created.  In  what  re.'.pect  every  man  should  consider  himself 
a  scholar.  What  it  is  permitted  to  do  on  the  eve  and  intermediate  days  of  a 
festival.  What  are  the  six  things  done  by  the  inhabitants  of  Jericho  and 
King  Hczekiah,  and  which  met  with  the  rabbis'  approval.      Four   shouts 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  ix 

sent  up  in  the  court  of  the  Temple.    What  happened  to  Issachar  the  man  of 
the  village  of  Barkai, 84-105 

CHAPTER  V. 
MiSHNAS  I.,  II.,  III.,  IV.,  V.  The  time  of  offering  the  paschallamb.  If 
the  Passover-sacrifice  had  not  been  slaughtered  for  its  purpose.  If  the  pas- 
chal lamb  was  slaughtered  for  those  who  will  not  partake  thereof.  The 
inhabitants  of  what  places  must  not  be  taught  the  contents  of  the  book  of 
ancestry.  Since  the  book  of  ancestry  was  concealed,  the  power  of  our  sages 
was  on  the  wane,  etc.  If  a  man  offers  the  Passover-sacrifice  while  still  hav- 
ing leaven  in  his  possession.  For  how  many  divisions  the  paschal  lamb  was 
offered,  etc., 106-124. 

CHAPTER  VI. 
MiSHNA  I.  Which  acts  necessary  for  the  sacrifice  of  the  paschal  offering 
supersede  Sabbath.  How  Hiellel  the  Elder  became  Nassi,  and  what  happened 
subsequently.  What  befalls  him  who  is  arrogant,  and  him  who  becomes 
an"-ry.  In  the  future  the  righteous  would  have  the  power  to  arouse  the  dead. 
How  pleasing  the  fulfilment  of  a  religious  duty  at  its  proper  time  was  to  our 
ancestors, 125-133 

MiSHNAS  n.,  III.  Under  what  circumstances  it  is  allowed  to  bring  a 
festal  offering  in  addition  to  the  paschal  sacrifice.  What  is  meant  by 
Abhin  Thekla  ?  (See  note.)  If  a  person  brought  a  paschal  sacrifice  on 
the  Sabbath  not  for  its  proper  purpose.  What  R.  Hyya  of  Abel  Arab 
declared, I33-I42 

CHAPTER    VII. 

MiSHNAS  I.,  II.,  III.,  IV.,  V.  How  the  paschal  lamb  should  be  roasted. 
About  diluted  vinegar,  whether  it  may  be  used.  If  any  part  of  the  roasted 
lamb  had  touched  the  earthenware  oven  on  which  it  was  roasted.  The  five 
kinds  of  sacrifices  that  may  be  brought  by  those  who  are  in  a  state  of  ritual 
uncleanness.  If  the  flesh  of  the  paschal  sacrifice  has  become  ritually  defiled. 
If  the  whole  or  the  greater  part  of  the  congregation  had  become  defiled.  If 
one  half  of  the  congregation  be  clean,  and  the  other  half  unclean,       143-156 

MiSHNAS  VI.,  VII.,  VIII.,  IX.,  X.  For  what  defilements  the  golden  plate 
of  the  high-priest  atones.  When,  and  with  which  wood,  must  the  lamb  be 
burned,  if  defiled.  If  a  slaughtered  Passover-sacrifice  had  been  carried 
beyond  the  walls  of  Jerusalem.  When  the  bones,  sinews,  etc.,  must  be 
burned.     Which  part  of  the  paschal  kid  or  lamb  may  be  eaten,  .         156-165 

MiSHNAS  XL,  XII.,  XIII.  What  penalty  is  due  for  breaking  any  bones 
of  the  clean  paschal  lamb.  If  a  part  of  a  member  of  the  paschal  sacrifice 
protrude  beyond  the  Temple,  etc.  If  two  companies  eat  their  paschal  sacri- 
fice in  one  room,  and  if  there  is  among  them  a  bride,  what  they  and  she 
must  do.  What  was  said  and  done  when  R.  Ishmael  b.  R.  Jose  happened  to 
be  a  guest  of  R.  Simeon  b.  R.  Jose  b.  Lakunia 165-172 

CHAPTER    VIII. 
MiSHNAS  I.,  II.,  III.,  IV.,  V.     If  two  pasclial  lambs  were  slaughtered  for 
a  lying-in  woman  by  her  relatives.     The  Hagadic  explanation  of  the  verses 


X  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

in  Solomon's  Song  viii.  8,  and  viii.  lo,  etc.  The  legend  of  what  the  Holy 
One,  blessed  be  He,  said  to  Prophet  Hosea,  what  he  answered  Him,  and  what 
befell  subsequently.  Woe  is  to  a  dominion  that  overwhelms  its  own  master. 
For  what  purpose  Israel  was  sent  into  exile.  The  reason  why  the  Romans 
did  not  destroy  all  Israelites.  Why  Israel  was  exiled  to  Babylon.  The  day 
on  which  all  the  children  of  Israel  will  be  recalled  from  exile  will  be  as  great 
as  that  on  which  the  world  was  created.  If  a  person  order  his  slave  to  go 
and  slaughter  for  him  the  paschal  sacrifice.  If  a  man  say  to  his  sons,  I 
slaughter  the  paschal  sacrifice  for  whichever  one  of  you  shall  arrive  first  in 
Jerusalem.  The  size  of  an  olive  of  the  paschal  lamb  suffices  for  those  who 
partake  of  it.     If  a  person  had  appointed  others  to  partake  with  him  of  his 

share 173-185 

MiSHNAS  VI.,  VII.,  VIII.,  IX.  Whether  one  whose  seventh  day  of 
sprinkling  fall  on  the  eve  of  Passover  may  partake  of  the  paschal  lamb. 
A  mourner  who  has  lost  a  relative  on  the  14th  of  Nissan.  A  prisoner 
who  has  the  assurance  of  a  release.  Whether  the  paschal  sacrifice  must  be 
slaughtered  for  a  single  individual.  Whether  a  mourner  for  a  near  relative, 
not  yet  interred,  may  cat  of  the  paschal  sacrifice.  When  a  Gentile  proselyte 
may  partake  of  it, 185-190 

CHAPTER    IX. 

MiSHNAS  I.,  II.,  Ill,  Who  must  observe  the  second  Passover.  Must  a 
woman  bring  a  second  Passover-offering  ?  Concerning  neglecting  to  sacri- 
fice. What  must  be  considered  a  distant  journey  ?  How  much  the  entire 
world  measures.  What  the  disciples  of  Elijah  taught.  The  difference 
between  the  sages  of  Israel  and  of  the  Gentiles.  The  difference  between  the 
first  and  second  Passover.  Concerning  the  Hallel  at  the  slaughtering  of 
sacrifices 191-201 

MiSHNAS  IV.,  v.,  VI.,  VII.,  VIII.,  IX.  When  the  paschal  sacrifice  was 
brought  in  a  state  of  defilement.  Was  it  prohibited  at  the  Egyptian  Passover 
to  eat  leaven  on  that  one  night  ?  What  R.  Jehoshua  heard  from  his  teachers 
and  could  not  explain,  R.  Aqiba  explained.  When  the  animal  must  be  left 
to  graze.  If  a  paschal  sacrifice  had  become  mixed  with  other  animals.  If  a 
company  has  lost  their  paschal  sacrifice.  When  a  paschal  offering  of  two 
individuals  has  become  mixed, 201-209 

CHAPTER    X. 

MiSHNA  I.  When  and  what  must  be  eaten  on  the  eve  of  Passover,  and 
how  many  cups  of  wine  must  be  partaken  during  the  night.  R.  Simeon  b, 
Gamaliel,  R.  Jehudah,  R.  Jose  were  partaking  a  meal  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath  in 
the  city  of  Achu.  Once  Rabba  b.  R.  Huna  came  to  the  house  of  the  Exilarch. 
Whether  one  who  has  heard  the  Kiddush  in  the  synagogue  must  repeat  it 
at  home.  If  Sabbath  had  set  during  the  course  of  a  meal  at  which  a  company 
were  sitting.  Concerning  the  order  of  the  benedictions.  Concerning  the 
holiday  prayers,  what  must  be  said.  What  should  be  the  conclusion  of  the 
Habdalah.  How  R.  Itz'hak  sent  his  son  to  Ula,  and  his  answer.  Whether 
the  honor  of  the  Sabbath  is  more  important  than  that  of  the  eve  preceding 
it.     The  eight  things  about  the  Habdalah  prayer.     How  R.  Ashi  reciteci  the 


xviii  SYNOPSIS    OF   SUBJECTS. 

CHAPTER  II. 

MiSHNAS  I.  to  V,  Why  the  priests  were  selected  by  lot  in  the  latter  days, 
and  not  before.  Why  Israel  must  not  be  counted.  How  secure  and  care- 
less should  the  man  feel  that  knows  that  the  Lord  helps  him.  What  is 
called  revenge,  and  what  is  called  bearing  a  grudge  ?  The  reward  of  him 
who  leaves  his  injuries  unavenged.  The  accident  that  befell  two  priests. 
For  performing  certain  four  services  a  layman  deserves  capital  punishment. 
In  what  garments  were  the  lots  drawn  ?  Were  the  lots  drawn  for  each  ser- 
vice separately  ?  In  what  order  the  members  of  the  sacrifice  were  offered. 
The  daily  sacrifices  are  offered  by  nine,  ten,  eleven,  twelve  priests.  How 
so  ?     A  ram  was  offered  by  eleven,  a  bull  by  twenty-four,       .        .         30-39 

CHAPTER   III. 

MiSHNAS  I.  to  IV.  What  the  Superintendent  used  to  say  to  the  priests, 
and  why  all  this  was  necessary.  What  is  said  about  the  heat  during  a 
clouded  day.  Rules  for  entering  the  Temple  for  all.  Why  and  where  the 
high-priest  bathed  five  times,  and  washed  his  hands  and  feet  ten  times. 
How  is  it  known  from  the  Holy  Scriptures  ?  How  the  service  was.  When 
one  meets  an  opportunity  to  perform  a  meritorious  act.  If  he  was  an  aged 
or  delicate  high-priest,  what  was  then  ?  Concerning  the  garments  of  the 
high-priest  and  their  value.  What  happened  to  Hillel,  to  Eliezer  b.  Har- 
sum,  and  Joseph  the  Upright,  .......         40-49 

MiSHNAS  V.  to  VII.  How  did  the  high-priest  confess  ?  and  what  the 
people  responded  after  him.  Which  of  the  officers  were  on  his  right  and 
w'hich  were  on  his  left  during  the  service  ?  What  Ben  Katin  made  for  the 
Temple,  and  what  his  mother  Queen  Helen  made.  Concerning  the  house  of 
Garmo,  the  house  of  Abtinas,  and  Hogros  b.  Levi  (the  preparer  of  shew- 
bread,  incense,  etc.).  What  one  of  the  members  of  the  house  of  Abtinas 
related  to  R.  Ishmael.  Whence  is  it  derived  from  the  Pentateuch  that  when 
the  names  of  the  just  are  mentioned  they  must  be  blessed,  and,  vice  versa, 
those  of  the  wicked  ?  When  a  man  sanctifies  himself  a  little  here  below,  he 
is  sanctified  much  above, 49-57 

CHAPTER   IV. 

MiSHNAS  I.  to  III.  Concerning  the  lots  of  the  two  he-goats,  how  they 
were  taken  from  the  boxes,  and  of  what  material  the  boxes  were  made.  What 
happened  when  Simeon  the  Upright  was  high-priest,  and  after.  Simeon  the 
Upright  told  the  sages  :  "This  year  I  am  going  to  die."  "How  dost  thou 
knoWj.?"  About  the  six  times  the  high-priest  pronounced  God's  name,  as  it 
is  written,  during  the  Day  of  Atonement.  About  the  tongue  of  crimson 
wool  which  was  tied  to  the  head  of  the  goat  that  was  to  be  sent  away,  and 
for  the  red  cow,  etc.  Concerning  the  slaughter  of  the  red  cow  by  a  layman. 
What  is  the  reason  that  a  female  may  not  perform  the  ceremony  of  sprink- 
ling ?  The  measure  of  the  censer  in  which  the  coals  for  the  incense  were 
taken,  and  of  what  material  it  was  made,  and  of  what  color  it  was  on  the 
Day  of  Atonement.  Tliere  were  seven  kinds  of  gold.  Whence  is  it  deduced 
that  a  special  fire  was  made  that  day,      .,,,..         58-68 


SYNOPSIS   Or^   SUBJECTS.    '  xix 

CHAPTER  V. 
MiSHNAS  I.  to  VI.  About  the  two  handfuls  of  incense  for  the  Holy  of 
Holies,  and  how  it  was  used.  What  concerning  the  incense  between  the 
middle  fingers  ?  When  he  had  filled  his  hands  with  incense,  and  suddenly- 
died,  how  then  ?  If  he  died  while  slaughtering,  might  the  blood  be  sprinkled  ? 
The  difference  of  opinion  between  R.Jose  and  the  sages  about  the  vail  of  the 
Holy  of  Holies.  The  ell  of  the  entrance  (to  the  Holy  of  Holies)  was  a  matter 
of  doubt  to  the  sages.  About  the  ark  in  the  first  and  second  Temples.  He 
departed  in  the  same  manner  as  he  had  come  (backwards).  Whence  do  we 
deduce  this  ?  The  custom  of  the  disciples  when  departing  from  their  mas- 
ters. The  difference  of  opinion  between  the  sages  about  the  ark  :  according 
to  some  it  was  taken  into  exile  in  Babylon,  and  according  to  others  it  was  con- 
cealed in  its  place  in  the  Temple.  The  world  was  created  from  the  very 
middle,  beginning  with  the  extremities.  Everything  was  created  from  Zion. 
How  many  times  had  he  to  sprinkle  downwards  ?  One  and  one,  one  and 
two,  etc.  What  was  the  law  when  the  bloods  of  the  bullock  and  the  goat  got 
mingled  ?  Whence  does  he  begin  (the  sprinkling)  ?  The  difference  of  opin- 
ion of  some  sages  about  this  matter.  Whether  one  is  guilty  when  using  the 
blood  for  his  own  purpose.  How  is  the  law  if  he  performed  the  services  in 
a  wrong  order,  or  in  the  wrong  clothes  ?  Whether  the  atonement  for  all 
sins  includes  the  sin  of  uncleanness  in  the  Temple  or  not,       .         .         69-86 

CHAPTER  VI. 
MiSHNAS  I.  to  V.  The  equality  of  the  two  he-goats.  The  law  if  one  of 
them  dies  after  the  lots  were  cast.  If  a  substitute  was  selected,  and  then 
the  first  one  was  found.  The  expression  of  the  high-priest  at  his  confession 
on  the  he-goat  for  Azazel.  How  the  priest  delivered  the  he-goat  to  its  con- 
ductor. The  question  which  R.  Eliezer  was  asked,  and  his  answers.  How 
the  prominent  men  of  Jerusalem  used  to  accompany  the  messenger  of  the 
he- goat.  How  far  was  Jerusalem  from  the  Tsuk  (the  rock  of  its  destina- 
tion) ?  What  was  done  with  the  tongue  of  crimson  wool,  and  its  significa- 
tion. About  the  ten  booths  between  Jerusalem  and  the  Tsuk,  and  how  at 
each  booth  the  messenger  was  offered  meat  and  drink.  Whether  the  high- 
priest  was  told  when  the  he-goat  reached  its  destination,  or  it  was  made 
known  to  him  by  a  sign, 87-97 

CHAPTER  VII. 
MiSHNAS  I.  to  III.  How  the  high-priest  came  to  read  (the  Torah),  and 
in  what  clothes,  and  what  section,  and  who  were  the  persons  that  passed 
the  holy  scrolls  from  one  to  another  until  it  reached  the  high-priest.  The 
legend  of  Alexander  the  Macedonian  and  the  high-priest  Simeon  the 
Upright.  The  legends  about  the  tempter  to  idolatry,  how  he  was  caught  in 
the  time  of  Ezra  and  was  burned  to  death.  Also  the  legend  of  the  tempter 
to  fornication,  how  he  was  kept  prisoner,  was  blinded  in  both  eyes,  and  then 
liberated.  Concerning  the  Great  Assembly  which  has  renewed  the  appella- 
tions of  our  God,  the  great,  the  mighty,  and  the  terrible,  said  by  Moses,  and 
which  some  of  tlie  prophets  left  out.  What  the  high-priest  did  after  reading 
the  Torah.  At  what  time  the  bullock  and  the  seven  sheep  of  the  burnt- 
offerings  were  offered.  How  the  conductor  of  the  he-goat  informs  the 
high-priest  that    he    fulfilled  his   duty.     How  the  Urim   and  Tumim  were 


XX 


SYNOPSIS    OF   SUBJECTS. 


made.  How  they  were  inquired  of,  and  to  whom.  What  letters  were 
inserted  in  them.  About  the  three  crowns  of  the  altar,  the  ark,  and  the 
table,  who  received  them  ?  About  the  priest  who  was  anointed  for  war,  his 
garments,  services,  and  descendants.  How  was  the  ceremony  of  inquiring 
the  Urim  and  Tumim,  and  how  the  priest  received  the  reply.  Whence  do 
we  deduce  that  the  inquiries  are  made  for  kings  only  ?        .         .  98-1  n 

CHAPTER   VIII. 

MiSHNA  I.  The  afflictions  which  are  obligatory  on  the  Day  of  Atone- 
ment. What  were  the  afflictions  coming  from  the  manna  written  in  Deuter- 
onomy viii.  16  ?  The  visage  of  the  Lord  is  not  like  that  of  a  man.  How 
the  manna  betrayed  all  the  secrets  of  the  Israelites.  What  is  the  meaning 
of  the  bread  of  Abirim  ?  What  R.  Aqiba  said,  and  what  R.  Ishmael 
answered  him.  The  question  why  the  manna  did  not  descend  for  the 
Israelites  once  a  year,  and  its  answer.  What  R.  Eliezer  the  Modeite  had 
to  say  about  the  manna,  which  R.  Ishmael  called  a  gathering  of  nonsensical 
words.  How  is  it  known  that  abstaining  from  washing  and  anointing  is  an 
affliction  ?  What  is  the  law  in  regard  of  one  being  soiled  in  clay,  etc., 
whetiier  he  may  wash  himself?  When  a  man  goes  to  receive  his  father, 
master,  or  superior,  and  has  to  wade  in  water  reaching  to  his  neck  ?  About 
the  spring  that  issued  from  the  Holy  of  Holies.  Whether  a  great  man  is 
permitted  to  decide  the  question  of  a  blemish  of  a  firstling,  and  what  R. 
Tzadok  b.  'Haluqah  answered.  Whether  children  are  to  observe  the  afflic- 
tions ?  Tiie  quantity  of  food  and  beverage  prohibited  from  partaking  on 
the  Day  of  Atonement, 1 12-122 

MiSHNAS  II.  to  V.  What  is  the  law  regarding  one  who  ate  and  drank 
through  forgetfulness  ?  At  what  age  are  children  made  to  fast  some  hours 
on  the  Day  of  Atonement?  When  a  pregnant  woman  longs  for  the  food 
which  she  has  smelled.  When  a  man  is  seized  with  bulimy,  what  he  may 
eat,  etc.  What  happened  to  some  rabbis  who  were  seized  with  bulimy. 
When  a  man  is  bitten  by  a  mad  dog.  The  five  things  mentioned  as  symp- 
toms of  a  dog's  madness.  What  happened  to  R.  Johanan  and  the  matron 
of  Rome.  How  the  Sabbath  must  be  superseded  when  life  is  threatened. 
The  question  put  to  R.  Ishmael,  R.  Aqiba,  and  R.  Eliezer  b.  Azariah  when 
on  the  road  about  the  same,  and  what  they  answered,  .         .         122-132 

MlSHN.\  VI.  For  what  transgressions  the  Day  of  Atonement  atones. 
Does  the  Day  of  Atonement  atone  him  who  says  :  I  will  sin  and  God  will 
forgive  me?  What  penitence  atones  for?  What  R.  Eliezer  b.  Azariah, 
while  in  Rome,  was  asked  by  R.  Mathiah  b.  Hercsh,  and  what  he  answered. 
What  is  called  defamation  of  God.  How  penitence  is  great  :  it  reaches  the 
throne  of  His  glory.  How  repentance  is  great  :  when  an  individual  repents, 
the  whole  world  is  pardoned.  Whether  one  who  has  confessed  his  sins  on 
one  Day  of  Atonement  has  also  to  confess  on  the  next  one  ?  The  sin  of 
Moses  is  compared  to  a  woman  who  has  eaten  fruit  on  the  Sabbatical  year, 
and  David's  to  a  woman  who  has  really  sinned.  He  who  has  provoked  his 
neighbor,  even  by  words,  must  appease  him.  At  what  place  in  the  prayer 
should  he  confess?     What  the  disciples  of  R.  Ishmael  taught,      .       132-142 

Appendix.  The  letter  of  a  Gentile  who  lias  witnessed  the  ceremo- 
nies of  Passover,  and  the  procession  of  the  high-priest  to  and  from  the 
Temple, I43~'47 


SYNOPSIS    OF    SUBJECTS 


OF 


TRACT   HAGIGA. 


CHAPTER  I. 

MiSHNA  I.  The  law  concerning  the  Holocaust,  and  who  are  exempt 
from  it.  What  is  the  law  in  the  case  of  one  who  is  half  a  bondman  and  hall 
free?  Johanan  b.  Broka  and  R.  Elazar  b.  Hasma  have  related  to  their 
master  the  wonderful  lecture  of  R.  Joshua,  and  what  he  rejoined.  What  is 
called  a  fool?  The  law  about  the  lame,  blind,  and  sick.  An  entire  series 
of  passages  from  Scripture  which  the  different  rabbis  wept  over  when  they 
met  them  in  their  studies,  and  the  reason  of  it.  What  is  meant  by  "evils 
and  troubles,"  written  in  Deut.  xxxi.  21  ?  What  will  become  of  us  with  the 
Minim  ?  For  three  things  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  weeps  every  day. 
What  happened  to  Rabbi  and  R.  Hyya  while  on  the  road  with  the  blind 
scholar,  and  his  beautiful  blessings.  The  law  as  to  minorily,  and  at  what 
age  a  child  is  exempt  from  this  condition,  .....         1-13 

MiSHNAS  II.  to  V.  The  law  regarding  the  offerings  which  may  or  may 
not  be  brought  from  the  money  of  the  second-tithe.  Peace-offerings  and 
burnt-ofiferings  of  the  pilgrims  are  divided  according  to  their  circumstances. 
The  different  opinions  of  the  rabbis  regarding  the  passage  :  "  What  is 
crooked  cannot  be  made  straight."  The  explanation  of  Elijah  to  Ben  Hei  Hei 
regarding  the  passage  cf  Is.  xlviii.  10.  About  a  scholar  who  has  separated 
himself  from  the  Law.  The  laws  about  the  dissolving  of  vows  hang  in  the 
air,  and  which  laws  are  suspended  by  a  hair,  and  which  of  them  are  the 
essential  parts  of  the  Law, 13-20 

CHAPTER   II. 

MiSHNA  I.  Concerning  the  discussion  of  illegal  unions,  the  creation,  and 
the  divine  chariot.  By  ten  things  the  world  was  created  :  by  wisdom,  by 
knowledge,  etc.  Which  was  first  created,  the  earth  or  the  heavens  ?  What 
is  meant  by  the  term  "  heavens  "  ?  Woe  to  the  creatures  which  see  and 
know  not  what  they  see,  which  stand  and  know  not  upon  what  they  stand. 
The  names  of  the  seven  heavens,  and  what  is  contained  therein.     What  an«. 


iv  SYNOPSIS    OF   SUBJECTS. 

swer  (lid  the  heavenly  voice  make  to  that  wicked  man  when  he  said  ;  "I  will 
ascend  above  the  heigiits  of  the  clouds,"  etc.  ?     To  whom  the  secrets  of  the 
Law  may  be  imparted.     The  king  among  living  creatures  is  a  lion,  among 
domestic  beasts  an  o.\,  among  birds  an  eagle,  after  which  comes  man,  but  the 
Lord  takes  His  place  proudly  above  tiiem  all.     The  thousands  of  troops  who 
minister  unto  him.     The  stream  of  fire  which  is  issued    .    .    .     comes  from 
before  him.     Where  it  comes  from.     About  the  nme  hundred  and  seventy- 
four  generations  which  were  held  back  from  being  created.     What  are  the 
eighteen  curses  of  Isaiah.     Even  at  the  time  of  the  destruction  of  Jerusalem 
there  did  not  cease  from  them  faithful  men.     About  the  four  who  entered  in 
the  heavenly  garden  (Pardes).     The   legends  of  A'her  concerning  R.  Meir 
his  disciple  when  he  was  alive  and  after  his  death,  and  also  what  R.  Johanan 
said  and  did.     About  what  Rabba  bar  Shila  questioned  Elijah,  and  his  an- 
swer.    What  R.  Jehudah  questioned  Samuel  about  the  world  to  come,  and 
what  the  latter  rejoined.     Nimus  of  Gardi  and  R.  Meir  (see  note).     The  six 
things  regarding  th«  demons.     Every  one  who  gazes  upon  three  things,  his 
eyes  grow  weak,         ..........         21-38 

MiSHNAS  II.  to  IV.  The  difference  of  opinions  concerning  the  princes 
and  the  chiefs  of  courts.  About  the  law  of  laying  the  hand  on  the  offers  on 
a  festival.  Which  is  the  feast  in  which  thou  makest  proclamation  and 
reapest  ?  About  the  garments  of  a  common  person  which  are  defiled  l^y 
pressure  for  Pharisees, 38-43 

CHAPTER   III. 

MiSHNAS  I.  to  IX.  All  of  them  treat  about  the  details  of  the  rigorous 
rules  of  heave-offerings,  and  vice  versa.  The  conditions  in  Judah  and  in  Gali- 
lee as  to  which  of  the  inhabitants  are  trusted  and  which  are  not.  About  the 
salamander  and  the  fire  of  Gehenna,  and  that  the  fire  of  Gehenna  will  not 
affect  the  sinners  of  Israel,  who  are  full  of  merit  as  a  pomegranate  is  full  of 
seed, 44-54 


SYNOPSIS   OF  SUBJECTS 


OP 


VOLUME  VII.— TRACT  BETZAH.* 


CHAPTER  I. 

MiSHNA  I.  Why  a  new-born  thing  on  a  festival  must  not  be  used  on  the 
same  day.  The  different  opinions  for  the  reason  of  it.  How  is  the  case 
with  the  same  on  the  two  festival  days  which  are  kept  in  exile  only  but  not 
in  Palestine  ?  How  is  the  case  when  a  Sabbath  falls  on  one  of  the  two  days 
of  the  exile  festivals?  And  how  is  the  law  of  the  same  on  the  two  days  of 
New  Year,  which  are  kept  in  Palestine  also — are  they  considered  as 
one  sacredness  or  two?  About  a  burial  on  festivals  and  New  Year.  An 
animal  or  fowl  whose  blood  must  be  covered  when  slaughtered,  in  which 
case  they  may  be  slaughtered  on  a  festival.  And  how  is  it  with  a  cross 
which  is  doubtful,  if  it  is  considered  a  wild  or  a  domestic  animal.  The 
ordinance  of  Rabbanjohanan  b.  Zakkai,     ......         I-^S 

MiSHNAS  II.  to  VIII.  Concerning  the  preparing  of  doves  of  the  cots 
^or  the  festival,  and  their  removal  from  one  cot  to  another.  The  shutters  of 
shops,  may  they  be  removed  ?  If  birds  have  removed  from  their  prepared 
place  ?  If  one  has  prepared  black  pigeons  and  finds  white  ones,  or  more 
or  less  than  he  has  prepared  previously.  Which  utensils  are  allowed  to 
be  used  for  the  purpose  they  were  made,  and  for  other  purposes.  If  the 
tallow  of  the  slaughtered  on  the  festival  may  be  salted.  The  three  things 
the  finishing  of  which  is  allowed.  What  it  is  allowed  to  carry  on  public 
ground.  If  it  is  lawful  to  give  to  the  priest  the  first  dough  on  the  festival. 
The  necessary  change  in  laboring  from  the  week-days,  how  shall  it  be 
done? 15-24 

MiSHNAS  IX.  to  XII.  If  spices  may  be  pounded  on  a  festival.  How 
about  Ptisana  ?  How  to  pick  pulse  on  a  festival.  The  custom  of  the  house 
of  Rabban  Gamaliel  in  such  cases.  How  about  sending  as  presents  on  a 
festival,  shoes,  sandals,  phylacteries,  etc.,       .....         24-27 

*  See  Introduction  to  Synopsis  in  Tract  Sabbath,  Vol.  I.,  p.  xxix  ;  also  note  at 
end  of  Synopsis  in  Vol.  V. 


SYNOPSIS   OF  SUBJECTS 


OF 


VOLUME  VII.— TRACT  SUCCAH. 


CHAPTER  I. 

MiSHNA  I.  About  the  legal  height  and  width  of  the  booth  which  is  to 
be  used  during  the  seven  days  of  Tabernacles.  What  was  to  be  done  when 
it  was  higher  or  lower  than  the  prescribed  size  ?  If  one  has  placed  four 
poles  and  roofed  them,  how  is  the  law  ?  The  different  opinions  of  R.  Jacob 
and  the  sages  on  this  point.  Whence  is  deduced  from  biblical  passages  the 
size  prescribed  by  the  sages  ?  Did  the  Shekhina  descend  from  heaven  to 
earth  ;  and  also  Moses  and  Elijah,  did  they  ascend  to  heaven,  or  not  ?  And 
in  the  latter  case,  how  are  to  be  explained  the  passages  which  state  that 
they  did  ?  The  ells  which  are  mentioned  in  the  Scriptures,  how  many  spans 
did  they  contain  ?  When  there  is  a  difference  in  the  biblical  passages 
between  the  Massorah  {i.e.,  how  they  are  written)  and  the  reading  of  it, 
what  must  be  considered  for  practice  ?  How  shall  the  Succah  be  consid- 
ered— as  a  temporary  or  permanent  dwelling  ?  The  booths  of  potters  or 
watchmen,  can  they  be  used  for  a  legal  Succah  ?      .         .         .         .         i-io 

MiSHNAS  n.  to  VIII.  How  about  an  old  Succah  ?  What  is  called  an 
old  Succah  ?  How  about  a  Succah  under  a  tree,  or  if  a  cloth  was  spread 
over  the  roof  of  the  Succah  ?  If  one  Succah  was  over  another?  What  kind 
of  material  must  be  used  for  the  roof  of  the  Succah  ?  How  to  beautify  the 
religious  duties  for  the  sake  of  the  Lord,  and  from  what  passage  of  the 
Scriptures  this  is  deduced.  If  bundles  of  straw,  wood,  or  twigs  may  be  used 
for  ihe  roof  of  the  Succah.  The  two  things  which  R.  Jacob  heard  from  R. 
Johnnan  and  the  three  things  which  Rabha  bar  bar  Hana  has  heard  in  the 
name  of  the  same,  and  they  could  not  imagine  the  real  meaning  of  them,  and 
how  the  latter  Amoraim  tried  to  find  it  out.  What  Hana  bar  Abba,  and  R. 
Hisda  in  the  name  of  Rabina  bar  Shila,  and  Meremar  said  and  lectured 
about  the  roofing  of  the   Succah.     How  it  is  when    one  wants  to  cover  the 

*  .See  Introduction  to  Synopsis  in  Tract  Sabbath,  Vol.  I.,  p.  xxix. ,  also  note  at 
end  of  Synopsis  in  Vol.  V. 


vi  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

Succah  with  boards,  the  size  of  Same,  and  how  they  are  to  be  laid.  What  is 
to  be  done  if  small  rafters,  over  which  is  no  ceiling,  are  to  be  used  for  a 
booth.     The  difference  of  opinion  between   the  schools   of  Shammai   and 

Hillel,  and  R.  Jehudah  and  R.  Meir, 10-19 

MiSHNAS  IX.  to  XIII.  If  one  likes  to  roof  his  booth  with  iron  spits.  If 
one  likes  to  suspend  textile  walls  from  the  roof  downwards.  If  the  roof  was 
three  spans  distant  from  the  walls.  How  is  the  case  with  a  court  sur- 
rounded by  balconies  ?  The  law  of  a  crooked  wall.  If  one  likes  to  make  a 
Succah  in  the  form  of  a  cone.  About  a  reed  mat  made  for  sleeping  on, 
whether  a  Succah  can  be  covered  with  it  ;  the  size  of  it.  A  mat  made  of 
bark  or  papyrus,  if  large,  may  be  used  for  a  cover,  .         .        .         19-25 

CHAPTER   II. 

MiSHNAS  I.  to  VII.  How  is  it  when  one  sleeps  under  a  bed  in  the 
booth  ?  About  Tabbi,  the  slave  of  Rabban  Gamaliel,  who  was  a  scholar. 
If  one  likes  to  support  the  Succah  with  a  bedstead.  If  a  Succah  is  covered 
thinly,  what  must  be  more — the  sunshine  or  the  shadow  ?  If  one  constructs 
a  Succah  on  top  of  a  wagon,  or  on  board  of  a  vessel.  What  happened  to 
Rabban  Gamaliel  and  R.  Aqiba  when  they  were  on  board  of  a  vessel,  and 
the  latter  made  there  a  Succah.  Whether  a  Succah  can  be  made  on  the 
back  of  a  camel.  Can  a  living  animal  be  used  as  a  wall  to  the  Succah  ? 
How  is  it  with  an  elephant — a  living  or  dead  one  ?  How  is  the  law  about  a 
partition  not  made  by  human  hands,  if  it  can  be  considered  legally  as  a  wall 
to  the  Succah  ?  If  one  makes  a  Succah  between  trees  which  form  side-walls. 
How  is  it  about  the  delegates  for  religious  purposes — are  they  obliged  to  or 
exempted  from  the  duty  of  the  Succah  ?  How  is  it  with  a  mourner,  with  a 
bridegroom  and  his  attendants,  concerning  the  duty  of  the  Succah  ?  How 
is  it  with  those  who  are  on  the  road  in  the  day-time,  and  those  who  are  on 
the  road  in  the  night-time  only.  How  is  it  with  the  watchman  of  a  tower, 
or  the  gardens  ?  How  is  it  with  the  sick  ?  How  is  it  about  those  who  are 
afflicted  ?  What  Rabban  Johanan  b.  Zakkai  did  when  two  dates  were 
brought  to  him  to  taste  out  of  the  Succah,  and  Rabban  Gamaliel  when  ajar 
of  water  was  brought  to  him  when  he  was  out  of  the  Succah  ;  and  what 
R.  Zadok  did  when  food  less  than  the  size  of  an  egg  was  brought  to  him  out 
of  the  Succah, 26-33 

MiSHNAS  VIII.  to  X.  How  many  meals  must  be  eaten  in  the  Succah 
during  the  seven  days  ?  The  difference  of  opinion  between  R.  Eliezer  and 
the  sages  on  that  point.  How  they  both  deduce  it  from  the  passages  of  the 
Scriptures.  If  one  makes  amends  with  extra  dishes  in  the  Succah,  has  he  done 
his  duty  ?  The  manager  of  the  house  of  Agrippa  the  king  asked  R.  Eliezer 
about  his  two  Succahs  and  his  two  wives,  which  he  had  in  two  different  cities 
in  Palestine,  and  what  the  latter  answered.  If  it  is  allowed  to  build  a  Succah 
in  the  intermediate  days,  and  what  is  to  be  done  when  a  Succah  becomes 
ruined  during  the  seven  days.  Can  one  fulfil  his  duties  in  his  neighbor's  Suc- 
cah, or  must  each  one  have  his  own  Succah  ?  What  R.  Eliezer  said  to  R.  Ilai 
when  he  came  to  visit  him  in  the  city  of  Lud.  What  happened  to  R.  Eliezer 
when  he  took  his  rest  in  the  booth  of  R.  Johanan  bar  Ilai  in  the  city  of  Kisri. 
There  was  not  one  tribe  in  Israel  from  which  a  judge  did  not  descend  (see 


SYNOPSIS    OF   SUBJECTS.  vii 

the  explanation  of  it,  p.  35,  footnote).  What  happened  to  the  same  when  he 
took  his  rest  in  Upper  Galilea,  and  was  asked  thirty  Halakhas  about  the  law 
of  the  Succah.  What  was  said  of  Rabban  Johanan  b.  Zakkai  the  Master  of 
R.  Eliezer,  of  all  his  habits  and  customs,  and  rhat  R.  Eliezer  his  disciple 
conducted  himself  similarly.  About  the  eighty  disciples  of  Hillel  the  Elder. 
Wiio  was  the  greatest  of  all,  and  who  the  least,  and  what  was  said  about  the 
latter.  What  the  Elders  of  the  schools  of  Shammai  and  Hillel  said  when 
they  visited  R.  Johanan  b.  Hahoronith,  and  found  him  sitting  with  his  head 
and  the  greater  part  of  his  body  in  the  booth,  and  the  table  was  in  the  house. 
How  is  it  with  women,  slaves,  and  minors — are  they  exempt  from  the  Succah  ? 
What  shall  be  the  age  of  a  minor  to  be  considered  so  ?  What  Shammai 
the  Elder  did  when  his  daughter-in-law  gave  birth  to  a  son  during  the 
Feast  of  Tabernacles.  How  the  Succah  shall  be  used  during  the  seven  days 
of  the  festival  as  a  regular  domicile,  and  the  house  as  an  occasional  abode. 
How  is  it  when  it  rains  ?  Where  the  finest  vessels  and  utensils  must  be 
kept  during  the  time  of  Tabernacles,  and  which  of  the  inferior  of  them  are 
allowed  to  be  kept  in  the  Succah.  What  R.  Joseph  did  when  a  wind  blew 
the  chips  of  the  covering  into  the  dish,  when  he  was  sitting  in  the  Succah, 
and  what  Abayi  asked  him.  What  an  eclipse  of  the  sun  means  to  the  whole 
world.  When  the  sun  and  the  moon  are  eclipsed,  it  is  an  ill  omen  to  the 
enemies  of  Israel,  so  maintains  R.  Meir.  On  account  of  four  things  the 
sun  is  eclipsed.  For  four  things  the  property  of  householders  becomes 
annihilated, 33-41 

CHAPTER   III. 

MiSHNAS  I.  to  III.  The  law  about  the  palm  branch,  the  size  of  it,  if  it 
was  acquired  by  test  or  dried,  or  if  it  was  from  a  grove.  What  R.  Huna 
said  to  the  sellers  of  myrtles — what  they  shall  do  when  they  buy  myrtles  of 
Gentiles.  How  is  the  law  if  a  public  street  is  roofed  for  the  purpose  of  a 
Succah.  What  R.  Na'hman  said  to  the  sages  when  an  old  woman  com- 
plained that  the  exilarch  and  all  the  sages  of  the  house  of  the  exilarch  are 
sitting  in  a  robbed  Succah.  If  a  citron  cannot  be  found,  can  it  be  replaced 
by  a  lemon  or  not  ?  If  the  point  of  the  citron  was  broken  off.  If  the  leaves 
of  the  palm  branch  were  torn  off.  How  the  law  is  if  the  "twins"  of  the 
Lulab  are  divided.  The  prescribed  size  of  a  Lulab  and  a  myrtle.  How 
many  boughs  of  myrtle  .''  How  the  law  is  if  a  bough  of  a  myrtle  has  more 
berries  than  leaves.  If  it  was  a  Tzaphtzapha.  If  a  greater  number  of 
leaves  have  dropped  off.  If  the  tip  has  been  broken  off.  If  a  Lulab  must  be 
tied  up,  and  how  it  shall  be  tied  together  with  the  myrtle  and  the  willow. 
Of  what  places  must  a  willow  be  taken.  The  difference  of  opinion  between 
R.  Ishmael,  R.  Tarphon,  and  R.  Aqiba  about  the  prescribed  sizes  of  the 
Lulab,  myrtle,  willow,  and  citron.  What  Samuel  said  to  the  sellers  of 
myrtles, 42-50 

MiSHNAS  IV.  to  VII.  How  is  it  with  a  citron  which  was  taken  off  a  tree 
less  than  three  years  old  ?  What,  if  it  was  of  Demaif  What  is  the  mini- 
mum size  of  a  small  citron  and  the  maximum  of  a  large  one  ?  How  is  the 
law  if  a  citron  has  been  peeled  and  gets  the  color  of  a  red  date  ?  If  it  iias  a 
hole.  How  is  an  unripe  citron  ?  What  makes  a  citron  unbeautiful  1  Tlie 
Lulab  which  must  be  tied  with  its  own  kind  only,  according  to  R.  Jehudah, 


viH  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

what  is  to  be  called  its  own  kind  ?  The  objection  of  R.  Meir,  who  relates 
that  the  inhabitants  of  Jerusalem  tied  a  Lulab  with  gold  lace,  and  what  the 
sages  answered  to  this.  What  Rabba  said  to  the  men  who  tied  the  Hosha- 
noth  for  the  exilarch.  How  to  prevent  an  intervention  between  the  Lulab 
and  the  other  things  which  are  to  be  tied  with  it.  The  myrtle  bough  used 
for  religious  duties — may  it  be  smelled,  or  not  ?  And  hov/  is  it  with  the 
citron  ?  With  what  hands  the  Lulab  and  the  citron  must  be  handled.  Wliy 
do  we  pronounce  the  benediction  on  the  Lulab  only  ?  When  must  the 
Lulab  be  shaken  ?  How  is  it  to  be  shaken  ?  What  is  the  law  if  one  is  on 
the  road  and  has  no  Lulab  ?  When  is  Hallel  to  be  read  ?  Who  must  read 
it  ?  From  what  chapters  of  the  Psalms  the  Hallel  is  said.  What  the  reader 
shall  say,  and  what  the  congregation  shall  answer  in  the  saying  of  Hallel. 

What  verses  are  to  be  repeated  in  Hallel, S^-S^ 

MiSHNAS  VIH.  to  XI.  What  is  the  law  when  one  buys  a  Lulab  from  a 
common  man  in  the  Sabbatical  year.  Is  a  citron  equal  to  a  tree  in  all 
respects  ?  Does  the  fruit  of  the  Sabbatical  year  become  exchanged,  if  it 
is  done  in  the  manner  of  buying  and  selling  ?  The  Sabbatical  year  holds 
the  money  exchanged  for  its  fruits.  May  both  the  fruit  of  Sabbatical  year 
and  of  second  tithe  be  exchanged  for  wild  game,  cattle,  and  fowl,  when  they 
are  alive  or  slaughtered  ?  How  the  Lulab  was  used  in  the  second  Temple, 
and  in  the  country  at  that  time,  and  what  R.  Johanan  b.  Zakkai  has  ordained 
after  its  destruction.  When  the  first  day  of  Tabernacles  falls  on  a  Sabbath. 
What  happened  to  Rabban  Gamaliel,  R.  Elazar  b.  Azariah,  and  R.  Aqiba 
when  the  former  bought  a  citron  for  a  thousand  Zuz,  and  what  he  did  with 
it.  What  R.  Elazar  b.  Zadok  relates  how  the  custom  of  the  men  of  Jerusa- 
lem was.  When  the  Lulab  may  be  put  in  water,  when  water  may  be  added, 
and  when  it  must  be  changed.  At  what  age  a  minor  has  to  shake  the 
Lulab,  to  perform  the  duties  of  Tzitzith,  Tefilin,  and  his  father  to  teach  him 
the  Torah,  and  to  read  with  him  the  Shema, 56-61 

CHAPTER   IV. 

MiSHNA  L  The  Lulab  and  willow  to  surround  the  altar  were  sometimes 
used  on  six  days,  and  sometimes  on  seven  days  of  the  festival.  The  Hallel 
and  the  eating  of  peace-offerings  took  place  on  eight  days,  and  the  pipes  were 
played  on  sometimes  five,  sometimes  six  days.  In  which  case  was  the  Lulab 
used  seven  days  ?  Whence  do  we  deduce  this  from  the  Scriptures  ?  Why 
do  we  use  the  Lulab  seven  days  in  memory  of  the  Temple,  and  not  the  wil- 
low ?  Do  the  Lulab  and  the  willow  violate  the  Sabbath  or  not  ?  Can  one 
fulfil  the  ceremony  of  the  willow  with  that  which  is  tied  to  the  Lulab?  May 
a  man  go  more  than  ten  Parsaoth  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath  ?       .         .        62-66 

MiSHNAS  II.  to  IV.  How  was  the  commandment  to  take  the  willow  ful- 
filled in  Jerusalem  ?  What  was  said  when  they  went  around  the  altar  with 
the  willow  ?  The  saying  of  R.  Simeon  b.  Jochai,  that  he  could  exempt  the 
whole  world  from  the  day  of  judgment,  since  he  was  born  till  that  time,  etc. 
Must  the  benediction  on  the  Lulab  be  pronounced  all  the  seven  days,  or  on 
the  first  day  only  ?  Shall  the  benediction  of  the  time  be  pronounced  with  the 
Lulab  and  the  Succah,  and  when  ?  Come  and  see  :  The  usages  of  the  Holy 
One,  blessed  be  He,  are  not  as  the  usages  of  human  beings.  Can  the  citron 
be  eaten  during  the  seven  days,  or  on  the  eighth  day  only  ?     The  difference 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  ix 

of  opinion  between  the  Tanaim  and  Amoraim,  if  the  ceremony  of  the  willow 
is  based  upon  a  tradition  of  the  prophets,  or  it  is  only  a  custom  of  theirs. 
Must  the  benediction  of  the  time  be  pronounced  on  the  eighth  day  of  the 
Tabernacles,  which  is  a  separate  holiday  ?  The  Hallel  and  the  enjoying  of 
the  peace-offerings  were  for  eight  days.  How  so  ?  How  was  the  pouring  out 
of  the  water  ?  Why  the  people  called  out  to  him  who  poured  out  the  water: 
"  Raise  thy  hand."  Why  were  the  holes  of  the  two  silver  basins  of  which 
the  wine  and  water  were  poured  out  not  equal  in  size?  The  saying  of  R. 
Elazar,  that  the  doing  of  charity  is  greater  than  all  the  sacrifices.  Charity 
is  rewarded  only  in  accordance  with  the  kindness  with  which  it  is  done. 
In  three  things  is  the  bestowing  of  favors  greater  than  charity,        .        66-75 

CHAPTER   V. 

MiSHNAS  I.  and  II.  The  difTerence  of  opinion  about  the  music  of  the 
sacrifices,  if  it  was  instrumental  or  vocal.  How  pious  and  distinguished 
men  danced  before  the  people  with  lighted  flambeaux  in  their  hands,  and 
what  they  said.  After  reaching  the  gate  they  turned  westward  ;  what  they 
said  about  their  ancestors  and  themselves.  The  beauty  of  the  Temple 
which  was  rebuilt  by  Herod  the  Great,  and  the  advice  which  the  sages  gave 
to  him.  The  beauty  of  the  diuplustin  (double  portico)  of  Alexandria  in 
Egypt,  all  that  it  contained,  the  seventy-one  golden  chairs  for  the  Sanhedrin, 
and  how  all  tliis  was  destroyed  by  Alexander  of  Macedonia.  The  separate 
places  for  males  and  females  in  the  Temple,  and  how  they  were  changed 
in  order  to  prevent  levity.  About  the  lamentation  of  the  death  of  Messiah 
ben  Joseph,  and  the  death  of  the  evil  angel.  The  tradition  of  the  two 
Messiahs,  ben  Joseph  and  ben  David,  and  the  different  explanations  of  the 
verse  Zechariah,  vii.  10,  according  to  the  believers  of  the  old  tradition  and 
the  believers  of  the  Messiahship  of  Christ.  About  the  evil  angel — how  he 
appears  in  the  beginning  and  how  he  grows  in  the  nature  of  human  beings. 
What  the  Messiah  ben  David  will  ask  of  the  Lord.  The  seven  names  of 
the  evil  angel.  The  evil  angel  is  hidden  in  man's  heart.  How  he  tempts 
scholars  more  than  anyone  else.  How  Abayi  watched  a  man  and  a  woman 
who  went  on  the  road.  What  one  shall  do  when  the  hideousness  has 
attacked  him.  The  three  verses  of  the  Scriptures  which  clear  Israel  on  the 
judgment  day.  Who  are  meant  by  the  four  carpenters  mentioned  in 
Zechariah,  ii.  3  ?  Who  are  the  seven  shepherds  and  the  eight  anointed  men 
mentioned  in  Micah,  v.  4  ?  The  four  lads  who  held  jars  of  oil  containing  120 
lugs.  Was  it  in  all  120  lugs,  or  did  each  jar  contain  so  much  ?  Who  said  : 
Well  be  to  our  youth  which  does  not  disgrace  our  age  ?  and  who  said  vice 
versa  ?  What  Hillel  the  Elder  said  when  he  was  engaged  in  the  enjoy- 
ment of  the  pouring  of  the  water.  For  what  purpose  the  fifteen  songs  of 
degrees  were  said  by  David.  What  is  the  meaning  of  "  we  belong  to  God  " 
and  "  we  raise  our  eyes  to  God  "  ? 76-85 

MiSHNAS  III.  to  VI.  How  many  times  was  the  trumpet  blown  in  the 
Temple  every  day,  and  how  many  on  the  festivals  ?  The  different  opinions 
of  the  Tanaim  about  this  point.  When  was  the  maximum  of  forty-eight 
times  blown  ?  For  what  purpose  were  the  seventy  bullocks  offered  on  the 
seven  days  of  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles?  And  for  what  purpose  was  the 
one   bullock  offered   [Numb.    xxix.   36]  ?     Three  times  in  the  year  all  the 


X  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

twenty-four  orders  of  priests  were  alike  entitled  to  share  the  pieces  of  offer- 
ings of  the  festival,  and  in  the  shewbread,  for  what  purpose  ?  Whence  do 
we  deduce  that  all  the  orders  of  priests  had  equal  shares  in  the  offerings 
that  were  said  to  be  sacrificed  on  the  festivals  ?  If  a  festival  falls  before  or 
after  a  Sabbath,  all  the  twenty-four  orders  share  alike  in  the  shewbread. 
What  is  meant  by  before  or  after  ?  About  the  order  of  Bilgah,  when  Mi- 
riam his  daughter  becomes  an  apostate,  and  what  she  said  when  the  enemy 
entered  the  sanctuary,  and  what  was  done  to  the  whole  order,        .         85-92 


SYNOPSIS  OF  SUBJECTS 


OP 


VOLUME  VII.— TRACT  MOED  KATAN.* 


CHAPTER   I. 


MiSHNAS  I.  to  III.  How  dry  and  low-land  may  be  irrigated  from  newly 
sprung  fountain  and  rain  water,  on  the  middle  days.  Is  grubbing  up  olive- 
trees  permitted  during  the  Sabbatical  year  ?  Is  one  court  permitted  to 
overrule  the  decision  of  another  ?  Where  is  it  deduced  from  the  Scriptures 
that  tombs  must  be  marked  ?  Messengers  on  account  of  Kilaim,  when 
and  for  what  reason  they  were  sent.  The  irrigating  of  plants  and  yard- 
gardens.  How  to  stop  a  gap  in  a  fence,  in  the  middle  days  and  the  Sabbati- 
cal year, 1-9 

MiSHNAS  IV.  to  IX.  How  the  priests  had  to  make  the  inspection  of 
plagues.  If  it  is  allowed  to  gather  the  bones  of  parents  in  the  minor  festivals. 
If  a  funeral  oration  may  be  held  thirty  days  before  the  festival.  About  digging 
and  preparing  graves  in  the  minor  festivals.  If  one  may  espouse  a  wife  in 
those  days.  The  explanation  of  I  Kings  viii.  66,  and  the  legend  of  Solomon 
and  the  gates.  The  allegorical  blessings  of  Jonathan  and  Jchudah  the  dis- 
ciples of  Ben  Jo'hi  to  his  son,  and  their  interpretation  by  his  father.  How 
Rabh  interpreted  the  advice  of  Ben  Halafta  to  his  own  son  as  a  blessing 
from  the  Scripture.  The  especial  labors  which  may  and  may  not  be  done  on 
the  middle  days,  and  also  the  difference  between  a  layman  and  a  specialist 
on  this  subject,  9-18 

CHAPTER   II. 

MiSHNAS  I.  to  VI.  Which  labors  may  be  done  in  the  usual  manner  and 
which  must  be  changed  in  their  manner.  If  the  property  of  one  was  fined 
by  the  court  for  violating  the  minor  feasts,  and  he  dies,  is  it  in  force  for  his 
heirs  ?     And  how  it  shall  be  done  in  the  buying  and  selling  places,     .     19-24 

CHAPTER   III. 

MiSHNA  I.  Who  may  trim  their  hair.  If  mourning  and  the  burden  of  ban 
must  be  observed  on  the  festival    and  middle  days.     Whence  do  we  deduce 

*  See  lootnote  in  Tmct  Succah. 


Iv  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

that  the  court    has  power  to  summon,  to  appoint  a  time,  and  to  postpone 
trials  and  to   excommunicate  ?     For  what  cases  one  may  be  put  under  the 
ban,  and  what  is  the    fixed    time    for  rebuke,  ban,  and    excommunication. 
What   happened  to  a  young  scholar  whom  R.  Jehudah  put  under  the  ban. 
How  the  maid-servant  of  Rabbi  put  one  under  the  ban  for  beating-  his  grown- 
up son,  and  what  the  rabbis  said  to  that.     What  Mar  Zutra  the  Pious  did 
when  a  young  scholar  was  delinquent,       ......     25-34 

MiSHNAS  II.  to  VII.  What  documents  are  allowed  to  be  written.  About 
bonds  and  debts.  About  Phylacteries,  etc.  Do  the  days  of  the  festival  post- 
pone the  mourning  or  abolish  ?  The  difference  in  this  subject  between 
Sabbath  and  a  festival,  and  as  to  a  difference  also  between  the  festivals  them- 
selves, and  which  of  them  enter  into  computation.  If  the  garments  are  to  be 
rent  for  certain  relatives,  and  how  to  do  it  on  the  minor  feasts.  What 
happened  to  an  Ishmaelitish  merchant  when  the  coffins  of  Rabba  and  Ham- 
nuna  passed  by.  The  Elegy  of  a  disciple  on  them.  The  funeral  oration  on 
Rabina.  The  answer  of  Bar  Kipuk  to  the  question  of  R.  Ashi :  What  oration 
he  would  make  on  the  day  of  his  death  ;  the  oration  on  a  child  which  died  at 
birth  ;  the  oration  on  R.  Zera  when  he  has  departed  in  Palestine — all  in 
verse.  To  whom  it  must  be  said:  "Go  in  peace,"  and  to  whom,  "Go  with 
peace," 35-45 


SYNOPSIS   OF  SUBJECTS 


OF 


VOLUME  VIII.— TRACT  TAANITH.' 


CHAPTER   I. 

MiSHNA  I,  The  difference  of  opinion  about  the  mention  of  the  power  of 
rain  in  the  prayer  on  the  days  of  Tabernacles.  Whence  do  we  know  that 
mention  must  be  made.  Who  of  the  readers  shall  mention  it  on  the  feast  of 
Passover.  Must  one  repeat  his  prayer  if  he  made  no  mention  ?  Three  men 
prayed  to  God  for  things  that  were  not  suitable.  The  congregation  of  Israel 
also  prayed  for  an  improper  thing,        .......         1-7 

MiSHNA  II.  Till  what  time  is  the  rain  to  be  prayed  for.  What  was  eaten 
during  the  seven  years  of  famine  [II  Kings,  viii.]  Jacob,  our  father,  never 
died.  When  begin  the  rain  fructifications  ?  The  knowledge  of  the  Law  is 
an  elixir  of  life.  Why  the  words  of  the  Law  are  compared  to  water,  wine, 
and  milk.  To  what  the  day  of  rain  is  equal  in  importance.  The  different 
explanations  of  the  interpretation  of  the  passage  Eccles.  x.  10.  Come  and 
see  how  great  are  the  men  who  have  faith  (see  footnote,  pp.  18,  19).  When 
there  are  famine  and  pestilence  what  shall  be  prayed  for  ?  The  explanation 
of  the  passage  "  thou  shalt  truly  tithe."  When  Aaron  died  the  pillar  of 
cloud  left,  etc.  What  happened  to  the  disciples  of  Rabha  when  he  died  ? 
About  the  measurements  of  the  Gehenna  and  the  Garden  of  Eden,      .     7-24 

MiSHNAS  III.  to  V.  From  what  time  in  fall  must  rain  be  prayed  and 
fasted  for  if  it  has  not  descended  ?  The  punishment  of  one  who  leaves  the 
congregation  when  the  latter  is  in  trouble,  in  order  to  avoid  it.  What  means 
the  "God  of  truth."  Who  is  called  a  sinner  when  he  fasteth  ?  Is  a  fast  of 
hours  considered  ?  Until  what  time  may  food  be  partaken  of  on  the  day 
preceding  the  fast?  If  fast-days  pass  without  answer,  what  shall  be  done  ? 
What  would  the  elders  do  when  they  assembled  in  the  morning  ?  The  query 
to  Rabbi  by  the  inhabitants  of  Nineveh.  Not  every  one  has  a  right  to  rend 
his  clothes  (when  praying) 24-35 

CHAPTER  IL 
MiSHNA  I.  What  is  the  order  of  procedure  on  the  fast-days  ?  What  has 
happened  to  Halaphta  and  Hanina  b.  Teradion  ?  About  the  clays  that  are 
mentioned  in  the  "Roll  of  Fasts."  On  what  days  of  the  week  the  order  of 
fasts  may  begin.  Why  do  they  congregate  in  an  open  place  ?  Why  are 
ashes  strewn  on  the  heads  of  all  ?     Who  has  a  right  to  address  the  congre- 

*Sce  introduction  to  synopsis  in  Tract  Sabbath,  Vol.  I.,  p.  xxix. ;  also  note  at  end 
of  synopsis  in  Vol.  V. 


xiv  SYNOPSIS    OF    SUBJECTS. 

gation  ?  What  the  reader  has  to  say  to  each  benediction.  The  strife  carried 
on  between  the  Pharisees  and  Bathusees  concerning  the  continual  daily 
offering  (see  footnote,  p.  44).  Has  one  to  complete  his  fast  if  rain  de- 
scends ? 36-46 

CHAPTER  III. 
MiSHNA  I.  On  what  fast-days  an  alarm  must  be  sounded.  What  hap- 
pened to  Honi  Hama'gel  and  what  message  Simeon  b.  Shetah  sent  to  him. 
What  is  considered  a  plague  causing  death  ?  What  price  must  grain  reach 
in  order  to  arrange  a  fast  ?  The  legend  of  Nakdimon  b.  Gurion  when  he 
borrowed  water  from  a  heathen.  For  the  sake  of  Moses,  Joshua,  and  Nakdi- 
mon the  sun  shone.  The  good  things  that  R.  Huna  did,  and  what  Rabha 
had  to  say  to  this.  Concerning  the  sickness  of  Shaibatha.  The  legend  of 
Hilpha  and  Johanan  when  they  studied  together,  and  what  they  heard 
of  the  angels.  What  happened  to  Na'hum  of  Gimzo,  and  the  legend  about 
it.  The  men  who  have  a  share  in  the  world  to  come,  who  were  pointed  out 
by  Elijah  (the  prophet)  to  Beroka  of  Huzaah.  An  alarm  should  be  sounded 
over  attacks  of  wild  beasts,  etc.  For  a  pest  an  alarm  should  be  sounded  even 
on  a  Sabbath.  What  is  meant  by  the  passage  Levit.  xxvi.  4.  The  legend  about 
Honi  Hama'gel  at  length,  and  how  he  slept  seventy  years.  The  legend 
about  Abba  Helkyah,  his  grandson,  and  also  of  Hanan  the  Hidden,  who  was 
a  grandson  of  his  daughter.  How  the  Amoraim  of  Palestine  prayed  for  rain 
and  how  those  of  Babylon  did.  What  happened  to  Oshiya,  the  youngest 
of  the  college,  with  the  Nasi  when  he  had  ordered  a  fast-day.  The  merits  of 
the  men  who  have  prayed  for  rain  in  the  presence  of  Rabbi  and  Rabh  (at 
different  places)  and  were  answered  at  once.  Legends  about  different 
Amoraim  who  have  prayed  for  rain  that  were  or  were  not  answered.  The 
legend  at  length  of  Hanina  b.  Dosa,  his  wife,  etc.  How  much  rain  should 
fall  in  order  that  the  congregation  should  stop  fasting  ?  What  happened 
with  Samuel  the  Little  when  he  ordered  a  fast,         ....        46-77 

CHAPTER  IV. 
MiSHNA  I.  The  periods  of  the  year  at  which  the  priests  shall  raise  their 
ihands  for  prayer.  When  the  standing  men  used  to  fast.  The  days  when  Hal- 
lel  was  sung.  The  five  calamities  that  happened  on  the  seventeenth  of  Tamuz 
and  those  on  the  ninth  of  Ab.  What  is  prohibited  during  the  week  of  the 
ninth  of  Ab.  The  festivals  of  the  fifteenth  of  Ab  and  the  Day  of  Atone- 
ment. The  twenty-four  watches  which  were  in  the  land  of  Israel.  How 
many  watches  were  established  by  Moses,  and  how  many  by  David.  What 
did  the  men  of  the  watches  pray  for  ?  Who  were  the  Gonebe  Eli  and  Kotze 
Ketzioth  (see  note,  p.  84)?  Who  were  the  family  of  Pa'hath  Moab  ben  Jehudah, 
etc.  ?  Whence  do  we  know  that  the  five  calamities  have  happened  on  the 
seventeenth  of  Tamuz  ?  Whence  do  we  know  that  the  second  Temple  was 
also  burned  on  the  ninth  of  Ab  ?  Also  that  the  city  of  Bethar  was  con- 
quered on  that  day  ?  What  is  allowed  to  eat  on  the  afternoon  of  the  eve  of 
the  ninth  of  Ab  ?  Which  ordinance  of  mourning  is  applicable  to  the  ninth 
of  Ab?  The  custom  of  Jehudah  bar  Ilai  on  the  night  preceding  the  ninth 
ot  Ab.  What  occurrence  makes  the  fifteenth  of  Ab  a  festival  ?  What 
Elazar  has  to  say  about  the  ring  of  righteousness  that  the  Holy  One,  blessed 
be  He,  will  make  in  the  future  in  the  Garden  of  Eden,    .         .         .         78-92 


SYNOPSIS   OF  SUBJECTS 

OF 

VOLUME  VIII.— TRACT  MEGILLA. 


CHAPTER  I. 


MiSHNAS  I.  and  II,  The  Megilla  is  to  be  read  from  the  eleventh  till  the 
fifteenth  of  Adar.  How  so  ?  Which  cities  are  considered  walled  since  the 
time  of  Joshua  b.  Nun.  By  whom  was  made  the  Targum  on  the  Pentateuch 
and  by  whom  that  of  the  Prophets.  What  the  Heavenly  voice  said  then 
and  how  the  ground  of  Palestine  trembled.  Who  were  the  men  who  were 
with  Daniel  [Daniel,  x.  7]  ?  Who  are  obliged  to  hear  the  reading  of  the 
Megilla  .-'  Which  has  the  preference,  the  study  of  the  Law  or  the  reading  of  the 
Megilla  ?  Are  women  obliged  to  hear  the  Megilla  read  ?  What  must  be 
considered  a  large  town  ?  What  Rabbi  used  to  do  on  Purim,  the  seventeenth 
of  Tamuz,  and  how  he  has  abolished  the  fast  on  the  ninth  of  Ab.  The  ex- 
planation of  the  passage  Zechar.  ix.  7,  and  also  the  explanation  of  the  pas- 
sage Ps.  cxl.  9.  Also  what  is  to  be  inferred  from  Habakkuk,  i.  13,    .         1-14 

MiSHNA  III.  When  the  Megilla  was  read  in  the  first  Adar  and  after- 
wards the  year  was  declared  intercalary.  The  request  that  Esther  sent  to 
the  sages.  The  Book  of  Esther  was  dictated  by  the  Holy  Spirit.  Whence 
is  this  deduced  ?  The  obligation  of  sending  portions  to  friends  and  to  give 
charity  to  the  poor.  In  what  characters  and  language  the  Megilla  must  be 
written  ?     When  is  the  festival  meal  on  Purim  to  be  eaten  ?    .        .         14-17 

MiSHNAS  IV.  and  V.  Enumerate  the  difference  of  a  number  of  things 
between  one  another,  among  them  the  difference  of  the  Greek  language  and 
others,  and  why  it  has  preference  over  all  others  except  Hebrew.  The  tradi- 
tion of  the  men  of  the  Great  Assembly  about  the  passages  beginning  with 
the  word  "  Vahi"  (and  it  came  to  pass).  What  a  bride  who  is  chaste  in  the 
house  of  her  husband's  parents  deserves.  The  enumeration  of  the  passages 
with  which  the  different  Amoraim  began  their  lectures  on  the  Book  of  Esther, 
The  analysis  of  the  name  "  Ahasuerus,"  and  what  the  different  sages  had  to 
say  about  it.  He  was  a  self-made  king.  Is  it  to  his  credit  or  to  his  dis- 
credit ?  The  three  kings  that  reigned  over  the  whole  world.  Why  was 
Cyrus  called  the  anointed  of  God  ?  Why  does  the  Bible  sometimes  name 
Persia  before  Media  and  sometimes  vice  versa  ?  By  what  sins  did  the  Is- 
raelites incur  the  decree  of  Haman  in  that  age  ?  Who  was  Memuchan  ? 
Why  was  Mordecai  called  Benjamite  and  Judean  ?  The  interpretation  of 
the  names  mentioned  in  the  Chronicles  without  any  explanation.     Why  did 


SYNOPSIS    OF   SUBJECTS.  V 

Esther  not  reveal  her  nationality  ?  The  reward  for  the  modesty  of  Rachel,  of 
Saul,  and  of  Esther.  How  the  Lord  makes  wroth  the  masters  of  their  servants 
and  the  servants  of  their  masters  in  order  to  do  good  to  the  upright.  The 
explanation  of  the  calamities  of  Haman.  The  parable  of  Ahasuerus  and 
Haman.  The  explanation  of  the  passage,  "There  is  not  any  rock  like  our 
God."  The  seven  prophetesses  in  Israel.  Pride  does  not  become  women. 
Who  was  Hathach  ?  Why  did  Esther  invite  Haman  to  the  feast,  and  what 
Elijah,  the  prophet,  said  about  this  to  Abahu  ?  Why  Israel  resembles  earth 
and  why  stars  ?  All  the  lecturing  in  detail  about  the  conversation  which 
Esther  had  with  Ahasuerus  before  the  hanging  of  Haman.  Why  is  Mor- 
decai  mentioned  in  Ezra,  ii.  2,  the  fifth,  and  in  Nehemiah,  vii.  7,  the 
sixth  ? 17-44 

CHAPTER    II. 

MiSHNAS  I.  and  II.  Whence  do  we  deduce  that  anyone  that  reads  the 
Megilla  in  an  irregular  manner  does  not  fulfil  his  duty,  that  the  Patriarchs 
must  be  mentioned  in  the  prayer,  that  the  Megilla  must  not  be  read  by 
heart,  and  that  the  name  of  the  Lord  must  not  be  blessed  any  more  after  the 
pronunciation  of  the  eighteen  benedictions  ?  How  is  it  known  that  God 
called  Jacob  "El"?  Regulations  concerning  the  reading  from  Assyrian 
characters,  from  writing  in  ink,  and  not  to  make  long  pauses.  If  the  inhab- 
itants of  an  open  town  had  gone  to  a  walled  town.  If  one  reads  the  Megilla 
which  is  bound  together  with  other  books.  How  the  schoolmen  repudiated 
the  statement  of  an  Halakha  in  the  name  of  Johanan,     ,         .         ,         45-54 

MiSHNAS  III.  to  V.  Who  is  qualified  to  read  the  Megilla  ?  Which  acts 
may  not  be  done  before  sunrise  on  the  day  on  which  they  are  obligatory, 
and  which  may  be  done  during  the  whole  of  the  day  on  which  they  are  obliga- 
tory,           54-56 

CHAPTER    III. 

MiSHNAS  I.  to  VI,  Is  the  Megilla  to  be  read  sitting  or  standing  ?  What 
benediction  must  be  pronounced  before  and  after  the  reading?  Regulations 
concerning  the  men  to  be  called  to  read  the  Holy  Scrolls  in  the  prayer  houses 
on  the  prescribed  days,  and  their  number  on  each  day.  What  is  to  be  done 
when  men  come  into  the  synagogue  after  the  prayer  is  finished  ?  What  is 
the  benediction  for  mourners  ?  The  number  of  men  that  must  be  present 
when  the  name  of  God  is  mentioned  in  a  benediction.  How  many  verses 
must  each  read  who  is  called  to  read  in  the  Holy  Scrolls  ?  Who  is  allowed 
to  act  as  minister  ?  May  a  priest  whose  hands  are  deformed  raise  his  hands 
to  bless  the  congregation  ?  If  one  say  he  will  not  minister  at  reading  desk 
in  colored  clothes.  If  one  say  in  his  prayer,  "The  good  shall  bless  Thee" 
(see  note,  p.  67).  Which  portions  of  the  Torah  must  be  read  and  explained, 
and  which  are  to  be  read  without  explanation  ?       .        .         .        .         57-^9 

CHAPTER   IV, 

MiSHNAS  I.  to  III.  Regulations  concerning  the  investment  of  the  proceeds 
of  a  sale  of  sacred  public  property.  May  one  prayer  house  be  exchanged  for 
another?     Which  articles  used  in  a  religious  duty  may  be  cast  away,  and 


vi  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

which  must  be  hidden  ?  What  disposition  of  the  Holy  Scrolls  when  rotten  ? 
May  old  Holy  Scrolls  be  sold  ?  When  are  Holy  Scrolls  allowed  to  be  sold  ? 
Rules  of  contribution  to  charity  by  a  visitor  of  a  town.  May  sacred  public 
property  be  sold  to  private  individuals  ?  The  replies  of  many  sages  when 
they  were  questioned  for  the  reason  of  their  longevity.  What  is  forbidden 
to  be  done  in  a  prayer  house,  and  may  a  man  go  in  there  for  the  purpose  of 
protecting  himself  against  rain  or  sunshine  ?  What  is  meant  by  the  saying 
of  the  Mishna:  "Who  uses  the  crown  is  lost"?  Come  and  see  how  the 
Israelites  are  beloved  before  the  Holy  One,  etc.     The  Heavenly  voice  about 

the  Mount  Sinai, 70-81 

MiSHNAS  IV.  and  V.  Treat  about  the  portions  of  the  Bible  which  are  to 
be  read  on  the  Sabbaths  beginning  two  weeks  before  Purim  up  to  Passover, 
on  each  day  of  the  Passover,  and  on  each  day  of  the  other  festivals,  and  the 
different  opinions  about  this, 81-90 


SYNOPSIS  OF  SUBJECTS 


OF 


VOLUME   VIII.— EBEL  RABBATHI, 


Chapters  I.  to  III.  One  who  is  in  agony  of  death  is  regarded  as  alive 
In.  all  respects.  How  so.?  May  the  inhabitants  of  a  village  greet  each 
other  if  a  death  occurs  in  their  community  ?  How  shall  a  suicide  be  buried, 
and  who  is  considered  such  ?  Suicide  of  a  minor.  The  burial  of  one  judi- 
cially executed.  That  of  one  separating  himself  from  the  congregation, 
and  of  those  stealing  the  duties.  At  what  age  are  poor  children  to  be 
lamented,  and  at  what  age  rich  ones  ?  The  funeral  meal.  At  what  age  is 
death  considered  Kareth  (short  life)?  The  days  of  sickness.  The  legend 
about  the  conversation  of  the  Angel  of  Death  with  many  of  the  Amo- 
raim, i-il 

Chapters  IV.  and  V.  Who  are  considered  relatives  of  the  first  and 
second  degrees  ?  The  regulations  of  an  Onen  (a  mourner  before  the  burial 
of  the  dead),  and  the  period  of  Aninuth  (see  Commentary,  p.  13).  Over 
what  relatives  priests  and  high-priests  may  defile  themselves.  The  decision 
of  the  sages  as  to  the  exhumation  of  a  body  for  the  purpose  of  examination 
as  to  age,  and  the  reasons  therefor.  For  what  purposes  the  high-priest  may 
or  may  not  leave  Palestine.  Who  is  considered  a  Meth-Mitzvah  (see  Com- 
mentary, p.  17),  and  what  shall  be  done  with  him,  and  how  a  Meth-Mitzvah 
was  the  incident  which  caused  R.  Aqiba  to  be  counted  among  the  wise. 
What  work  may  and  what  may  not  be  done  by  a  mourner.  What  must  be 
observed  during  the  seven,  the  thirty  days,  and  during  the  whole  year  of 
mourning.  The  exact  periods  for  weeping,  lamenting,  not  to  calender 
clothes,  and  not  to  cut  the  hair,  which  must  not  be  exceeded.  Whence  is  it 
deduced  that  mourning  lasts  for  seven  days  ?  When  one  mourning  suc- 
ceeds another.  The  regulations  concerning  the  ban  and  for  how  many  days 
it  shall  continue,  .........         12-23 

Chapters  VI,  and  VII.  What  a  mourner  may  read,  what  clothes  he 
may  wash,  and  if  he  may  or  may  not  wear  shoes.  When  he  may  leave  his 
house,  and  what  seat  he  may  occupy  when  in  the  prayer-house.  What  was 
done  with  mourners  and  others  having  trouble  when  entering  the  Temple. 
Ordinances  in  detail  relating  to  calendering  clothes,  cutting  the  hair,  etc., 
etc.,  etc.,  during  the  thirty  days.  What  happened  to  Mar  Samuel  with  his 
brother  Pin'has  during  their  mourning.  The  period  after  which  it  is  allowed 
to  remarry  after  the  death  of  one's  wife, 23-30 


iv  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

Chapters  VIII.  and  IX.  The  different  opinions  about  the  canopy  that 
is  to  be  made  for  a  dead  bridal  couple,  and  what  eatables  may  be  destroyed 
in  their  honor.  The  execution  of  Simeon,  Ishmael,  Aqiba,  etc.,  and  the 
lamentation  over  them  by  the  sages,  in  detail.  The  a  fortiori  conclusion, 
drawn  from  many  biblical  passages,  how  a  man  must  avoid  to  come  in  con- 
tact with  evil  subjects.  About  what  dead  relatives  must  one  rend  his 
garments,  and  the  rending  of  garments  over  scholars,  chiefs  of  a  college,  etc. 
When  the  rent  may  be  mended.  The  size  of  the  rent.  If  a  mourner  travels 
from  one  place  to  another.  The  obligation  of  lowering  the  couches  and 
when  they  may  be  placed  in  proper  condition.  The  saving  of  the  garment 
which  was  upon  the  dead, 30-45 

Chapters  X.  to  XII.  From  the  performance  of  what  religious  duties  a 
mourner  is  exempt.  The  funeral  meal.  The  standing  in  line  of  the  consol- 
ers. What  may  and  what  may  not  be  discussed  in  the  presence  of  a  dead 
body.  The  burial  of  rich  and  poor  people  and  that  of  scholars,  and  what 
happened  to  Aqiba  when  his  son  died.  The  difference  in  the  burial  and 
lamentation  of  a  man  and  a  woman.  The  preference  of  way  of  a  bridal 
procession  over  that  of  a  funeral,  and  what  happened  to  King  Agrippa.  The 
sweeping  and  the  besprinkling  of  a  mourner's  house.  A  recent  and  remote 
information.  The  different  societies  that  were  in  Jerusalem  for  attending 
weddings  or  funerals,  etc.  The  four  sages  that  came  to  console  R.  Ishmael 
when  his  sons  died,  and  what  they  said.  When  the  consolers  are  permitted 
to  speak  consolation.  About  the  burial  of  the  bones  of  two  dead  bodies  in 
one  grave.  The  saying  of  R.  Eliezer  b.  Zadok  as  to  what  his  father  com- 
manded him  in  regard  to  his  burial,  and  what  Abba  Saul  said  in  his  will  to 
his  son.  When  a  hearse  is  used.  What  Hanina  b.  Teradion  did  when  his 
son  was  executed  as  a  robber, 45-57 

Chapters  XIII.  and  XIV.  From  what  religious  duties  a  gatherer  of 
bones  is  exempt.  The  places  in  which  bones  and  the  Scriptures  must  be 
placed  when  being  removed.  When  is  it  allowed  to  remove  a  corpse  from 
one  grave  to  another  ?  If  it  is  allowed  to  bury  two  corpses,  or  one  corpse  and 
bones  of  another  corpse,  in  one  grave.  If  benefit  may  be  derived  from  a 
building  over  a  vacant  grave  or  from  a  vacant  coffin.  How  a  cemetery  must 
not  be  considered  vilely.  If  graves  may  be  changed  from  one  family  to 
another.  Is  occupancy  {Hazakah)  considered  with  graves  ?  The  three 
different  kinds  of  graves.  A  cemetery  which  surrounds  the  city  on  three 
sides.  The  seven  standings  and  sittings  after  the  burial.  The  ten  goblets 
of  wine  that  the  sages  have  ordered  in  the  house  of  a  mourner.  What  shall 
be  said  in  the  fourth  meal  benediction  in  the  house  of  a  mourner  ?         57-62 


SECTION   NEZIKIN   (JURISPRUDENCE). 
SYNOPSIS   OF  SUBJECTS 


OF 


TRACT  ABOTH  (FATHERS  OF  THE 
SYNAGOGUE). 


[Several  requests  have  been  received  by  the  translator  that  an  index  should  be 
made  to  the  volumes  of  the  Talmud,  as  is  customary  with  all  modern  works.  It 
would  be  an  utter  impossibility  to  give  a  complete  index  of  everything  contained  in 
the  Talmud.  Were  it  like  other  scientific  works,  which  treat  each  subject  separately, 
this  could  easily  be  done  ;  but  with  the  Talmud  it  is  different.  On  one  page  many 
different  subjects  may  be  discussed,  and  again  a  single  subject  may  occupy  several 
pages.     The  Talmud,  therefore,  has  never  had  an  index. 

After  careful  examination  of  the  volumes,  page  by  page,  it  has  been  decided  to 
make  a  synopsis,  i.e.,  to  give  briefly  the  heads  of  the  discussions  and  conversations 
upon  each  Mishna,  indicating  the  page  where  the  Mishna  is  to  be  found,  and  the 
Gemara  of  each  one,  which  serves  as  a  commentary.  By  this  the  reader  should  be 
able  to  refer  to  what  he  desires  to  know. 

A  synopsis  is  therefore  given  of  every  Mishna  which  discusses  a  single  subject, 
with  its  accompanying  Gemara — in  this  volume,  the  Tosephtha  ;  but  when  several 
short  Mishnas  cover  the  same  subject,  a  single  synopsis  is  given  of  the  whole,  includ- 
ing the  Gemara  of  each  one  ;  and  where  a  chapter  is  short,  a  synopsis  of  the  whole 
chapter  is  made,  without  dividing  it  into  Mishnas. 

This  is  the  best  that  can  be  done,  and  it  is  hoped  that  readers  will  find  it  satis- 
factory.] 

CHAPTER  I. 

Mishna  A.  The  Great  Assembly  originated  three  maxims.  Be  deliber- 
ate  in  judgment.  How  so  ?  The  books  of  Proverbs,  Song  of  Songs,  and 
Ecclesiastes  were  hidden.  How  was  Adam  created  ?  Why  was  Adam 
created  on  the  last  hour  of  the  sixth  day  ?  On  the  same  day  on  which  he 
was  formed,  on  the  very  same  day  his  countenance  was  created.  Accord- 
ing to  others:  "  Be  deliberate  in  judgment"  means  not  to  have  an  irascible 
manner.  Erect  safeguards  for  the  Law.  The  safeguard  of  the  Lord,  of 
Adam  the  First.  The  legend  about  Eve  and  the  serpent,  etc.  The  ten 
curses  with  which  Eve  was  cursed  at  that  time.  "  Shall  I  and  my  cattle  eat 
out  of  the  same  trough  ?"  The  tradition  about  the  ox  of  Adam,  the  steer 
of  Noah,  and  the  ram  sacrificed  by  Abraham,         ....  l-il 


xii  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

Continuation  of  Chapter  II.  of  Tosephtha. — What  is  the  safeguard 
that  the  Torah  made  to  its  words  ?  What  Elijah  the  prophet  answered  the 
widow  of  the  scholar  who  died  in  the  prime  of  his  life.  What  is  the  safe- 
guard that  Moses  made  to  his  words  ?  The  reason  why  Moses  broke  the 
Tables  ?  What  is  the  safeguard  that  Job  made  to  his  words  ?  The  safe- 
guard that  the  prophets  made  to  their  words.  The  safeguard  that  the  Hagiog- 
raphers  made  to  their  words.  The  safeguard  that  the  sages  made  to  their 
words, .         11-19 

Continuation  of  Chapter  III.  of  Tosephtha. — Whoever  takes  a 
coin  from  charity  when  not  in  need  of  it,  etc.  Study  the  Law  in  thy  old  age, 
even  if  thou  hast  studied  it  in  thy  youth.  If  you  gave  a  coin  to  a  poor  man 
in  the  morning,  and  another  one  begs  of  you  in  the  evening,  give  him  also. 
What  happened  to  a  poor  man  with  R,  Aqiba.  What  happened  to  Benja- 
min the  Just, 19-21 

MiSHNA  B.  The  motto  of  Simeon  the  Just.  Upon  the  Torah,  how  so? 
Upon  service,  how  so  ?  Upon  bestowal  of  favors,  how  so  ?  Rabban  Jo- 
hanan  b.  Zakkai  and  Vespasian.  In  three  things  mankind  differ  one  from 
the  other, 22-26 

MiSHNAS  C  AND  D.  Be  not  like  slaves  who  serve  their  masters  for  the 
sake  of  compensation.  Let  the  fear  of  Heaven  be  upon  you.  Let  your  house 
be  the  meeting  place  of  the  wise.  How  did  R.  Aqiba  begin  his  wonderful 
career  }  Not  less  astonishing  was  the  literary  career  of  R.  Eliezer.  How 
his  father  Hyrkanus  reached  the  seats  of  Ben  Zizith  Ha  Kesseth,  Nakdimon 
b.  Gurion,  and  Calba  Shebua, 26-32 

MiSHNAS  E  AND  F.  Let  thy  house  be  wide  open  for  the  poor.  When  the 
great  affliction  came  upon  Job,  he  prayed,  etc.  Teach  thy  house  humility — 
the  different  explanations  of  this  saying.  Get  thee  a  wise  teacher.  Judge 
everyone  from  his  favorable  side.  The  legend  about  a  maiden  who  was  led 
into  captivity  and  the  pious  men  who  went  to  redeem  her.  Not  only  were 
the  upright  of  former  times  themselves  very  strict  and  particular,  but  also 
their  cattle  were  so.     The  ass  of  R.  Hanina  b.  Dosa,      .         .         .         32-38 

MiSHNA  G.  Keep  aloof  from  a  wicked  neighbor.  Slanderers  are  pun- 
ished with  plagues.  The  legend  about  Moses,  Aaron,  and  Miriam.  Do  not 
consider  thyself  exempt  from  God's  chastisement,   ....         38-41 

MiSHNAS  Hto  K.  Make  thyself  not  as  those  that  predispose  the  Judges. 
Love  work — how  so  ?  Do  not  care  for  superiority.  See  to  it  that  your  name 
be  not  known  to  the  Government.  Ye  wise,  be  guarded  in  your  words. 
Love  peace — how  so  ?  Moses  desired  to  die  the  same  death  Aaron  did — 
how  so  ?  The  legend  of  the  death  of  Moses,  at  length.  Pursue  peace — how 
so  ?     Love  all  men  too,  and  bring  them  nigh  unto  the  Law,    .         .         41-50 

MiSHNAS  L  to  Q.  If  I  do  not  look  to  myself,  who  will  do  so  ?  And  if 
not  now,  when  ?  He  who  does  not  desire  to  learn  from  his  masters  is  not 
worthy  to  live.  He  who  increases  not,  decreases — how  so  ?  He  who  serves 
himself  with  a  tiara  perishes.  Fix  a  time  for  study.  Promise  little  and  do 
much.  Receive  everyone  with  friendly  countenance.  Make  a  master  to 
thyself.  "  I  have  never  found  anything  better  for  a  man  than  silence." 
Three  things  support  the  world.  The  disciples  of  Hillel  ;  of  R.  Johanan  b. 
Zakkai — what  was  said  about  them  and  what  they  used  to  say.  The  con- 
solation of  R.  Johanan  b.  Zakkai  by  his  disciples  when  his  son  died,     Thy 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  xiii 

fellow's  honor  must  be  as  dear  to  thee  as  thine  own.  Do  not  allow  thyself 
to  be  easily  angered.  The  two  proselytes  that  came  before  Hillel  and 
Shammai.     Repent  one  day  before  thy  death,  ....         50-58 


CHAPTER   II. 

MiSHNAS  A  TO  M.  In  choosing  the  right  path,  see  that  it  is  one  which 
is  honorable  to  thyself  and  without  offence  to  others.  All  who  occupy  them- 
selves with  communal  affairs  should  do  it  in  the  name  of  Heaven.  Do  His 
will  as  if  it  were  thy  own,  that  He  may  do  thy  wil  is  if  it  were  His.  Pass 
not  judgment  upon  thy  neighbor  until  thou  hast  put  thyself  in  his  place. 
The  boor  can  never  fear  sin,  and  the  ignorant  can  never  be  truly  pious. 
The  more  feasting  the  more  food  for  worms.  What  is  the  best  thing  to  cul- 
tivate. Which  is  the  evil  way  a  man  should  shun.  Warm  thyself  before 
the  light  of  the  wise.  An  envious  eye,  evil  propensities,  and  misanthropy 
drive  a  man  out  of  the  world.  The  legend  about  Joseph  the  Just,  R.  Zadoq, 
R.  Aqiba,  R.  Eliezer  the  Great,  etc.  How  difficult  it  is  for  man  to  avoid  the 
evil  propensities.  Love  everyone  except  the  infidels,  the  enticers,  the  mis- 
leaders,  and  the  informers.  Thy  neighbor's  property  must  be  as  sacred  as 
thine  own, 5^-65 

MiSHNA  N.  Set  thyself  to  learn  the  Law.  Johanan  b.  Zakkai  and  the 
daughter  of  Nakdimon  b.  Gurion.  Let  noble  purpose  underlie  thy  every 
action.  The  sages  who  were  recounted  of  R.  Jehudah  the  Prince.  How 
they  were  named  by  Issi  b.  Jehudah, 65-70 

CHAPTER   in. 

MiSHNAS  A  TO  V.  Consider  three  things,  and  you  will  not  fall  into 
transgression.  Pray  always  for  the  welfare  of  the  Government.  Whoever 
takes  the  words  of  the  Torah  to  his  heart.  Render  unto  God  what  belongs 
to  Him,  for  thou  and  all  thou  hast  are  His.  Whomsoever  fear  of  sin  pre- 
cedes, his  wisdom  prevails.  He  whose  works  are  in  excess  of  his  wisdom, 
his  wisdom  will  endure.  Be  pliant  with  thy  chief.  Receive  every  man  with 
cheerfulness.  Mockery  and  frivolity  are  the  forerunners  of  immorality. 
Everything  is  foreseen  and  free  will  is  given.  The  world  is  judged  by  grace. 
All  that  we  possess  is  merely  a  trust.  Without  knowledge  of  religion  there 
can  be  no  true  culture,  and  without  true  culture  there  is  no  knowledge  of 
religion.  Qinim,  canons,  astronomy,  and  geometry  are  after-courses  of  wis- 
dom,           70-81 

CHAPTER   IV. 

MiSHNAS  A  TO  P.  Who  is  a  wise  man  ?  He  who  learns  from  every- 
body. Despise  no  man,  and  consider  nothing  as  too  far  removed  to  come  to 
pass.  Be  exceedingly  lowly  of  spirit.  Wear  not  the  law  of  God  as  a  crown 
to  exalt  thyself  withal.  Judge  not  alone,  for  none  may  judge  alone  save  One. 
Whatsoever  congregation  is  for  the  sake  of  Heaven  will  in  the  end  succeed. 
Let  the  honor  of  thy  disciple  be  as  dear  unto  thee  as  the  honor  of  thine  asso- 


xiv  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

ciate.  Be  careful  in  thy  study,  for  error  in  study  counts  for  an  intentional 
sin, 81-86 

MiSHNA  Q.  Neither  the  security  of  the  wielded  nor  the  afflictions  of  the 
righteous  are  within  the  grasp  of  our  understanding.  Be  beforehand  in 
saluting  every  man.  Be  the  lion's  tail  rather  than  the  fox's  head.  Do  not 
seek  to  appease  thy  friend  in  the  hour  of  his  passion.  Look  not  upon  the 
pitcher,  but  upon  what  it  contains.  Envy,  sensuality,  and  ambition  destroy 
life.  Accept  not  the  assurance  of  thy  passions,  that  the  grave  will  be  z 
place  of  refuge  for  thee.  Without  thy  consent  wert  thou  created,  born  into 
the  world  without  thy  choice.  Thou  art  living  without  thine  own  volition, 
without  thine  approval  thou  wilt  have  to  die.  About  the  death  of  Eliezer 
the  Great.  Set  something  apart  for  charity,  before  you  arc  compelled  to  do 
90  by  others.  Lower  thy  seat  two  or  three  rows  from  the  place  you  intend 
to  occupy.  There  are  three  persons  whose  life  is  not  worth  living.  The 
safeguard  for  honor  is  refraining  from  laughter.  The  safeguard  for  wisdom 
is  silence.  Whoever  marries  a  woman  not  suitable  to  him  transgresses  five 
negative  commandments.  Do  not  be  as  the  lintel,  which  no  hand  can  reach, 
etc., 86-95 

MiSHNA  Q.  (continued).  Those  that  despise  me  shall  be  lightly  esteemed. 
The  support  of  the  wise,  etc.  Do  not  keep  away  from  a  precept  which  has 
no  limit.  Let  the  honor  of  thy  disciple,  etc.  There  is  grain  in  Judea,  straw 
in  Galilee,  and  chaff  on  the  other  side  of  the  Jordan.  There  is  no  love  such 
as  the  love  of  the  Torah.  There  is  no  wisdom  such  as  the  wisdom  of  man- 
ners. Whoever  maintains  peace  in  his  own  household,  etc.  The  words  of 
the  Torah  are  as  difficult  to  acquire  as  silken  garments  and  arc  lost  as 
easily  as,  etc.  All  those  things  which  are  done  in  private  shall  be  done  as 
if  they  were  done  publicly.  Do  not  isolate  thyself  from  the  community. 
The  disciples  are  divided  into  three  classes,  etc.  Whoever  constitutes  the 
Torah  as  the  chief  good,  and  considers  worldly  affairs  as  a  secondary  thing, 
etc.  Conciliate  not  thy  friend  in  the  hour  of  his  anger.  The  scholars  are 
divided  into  four  classes  :  One  studies  but  does  not  teach  others,  etc.  If 
one  honor  his  friend  for  pecuniary  considerations,  he  will  in  the  end  be  dis- 
missed in  disgrace,  etc.  On  account  of  the  four  different  means  of  forgive- 
ness, etc.  Repentance  must  be  to  every  one  of  them.  However,  one  who 
has  profaned  the  name  of  heaven  has  not  the  power  to  repent.  Wherefore 
do  scholars  die  before  their  time.  Be  careful  in  greeting  thy  neighbors. 
He  who  neglects  the  words  of  the  Law  on  account  of  his  riches.  There  is  a 
c»se  where  one  transgresses  ignorantly,  etc.  One  who  connects  himself 
with  transgressors,  etc.  The  punishment  of  the  liar  is  that  even  when  he 
teils  the  truth  he  is  not  believed, 9S-103 


CHAPTER   V. 

MiSHNAS  A  TO  G.  By  ten  sayings  the  world  was  created.  For  what 
purpose  is  this  stated  ?  Whence  is  it  deduced  that  a  single  person  is  equal 
to  the  whole  creation  ?  The  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  showed  unto  Adam 
*1'  succeeding  generations,  together  w-ith  their  preachers,  directors,  leaders, 
prophets,    heroes,  criminals,  and  their  pious.     Nine  hundred  and  seventy- 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  xv 

four  generations  before  the  creation  of  the  world,  the  Torah  was  already- 
written,  etc.  He  created  in  man  all  that  he  created  in  his  world — how  so  ? 
Ten  generations  were  there  from  Adam  to  Noah.  For  what  purpose  was 
this  stated  ?  The  Lord  said  :  I  will  not  equal  the  evil  thoughts  to  the  good 
thoughts  so  long  as  their  fate  has  not  yet  been  sealed.  Ten  generations 
were  there  from  Noah  to  Abraham.  For  what  purpose  was  it  necessary  to 
state  this  ?  With  ten  temptations  was  Abraham  our  father  tempted.  They 
are  as  follows,  etc.  In  contrast  with  these  ten  temptations  the  Lord  performed 
ten  miracles  for  his  descendants  in  Egypt.  When  our  fathers  stood  by  the 
sea,  etc.  "Arise,  and  pass  through  it,"  etc.  With  ten  temptations  did  our 
ancestors  tempt  God  in  the  wilderness.  By  means  of  ten  trials  the  Holy 
One,  blessed  be  He,  tested  our  forefathers.  This  sin  with  which  the  Israel- 
ites were  afflicted  is  enough  for  that  time,  etc.  Ten  names  of  praise  are 
applied  to  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He.  Ten  ignominious  names  are 
applied  to  the  idols.  There  are  two  sons  of  the  clear  oil.  This  refers  to 
Aaron  and  Messiah.  In  the  Torah  there  is  written  eleven  times  the  word 
"she"  when  it  ought  to  be  "  he."  Ten  times  did  the  Shekhina  descend 
upon  the  earth.  Ten  degrees  the  Shekhina  removed  itself  from  one  place  to 
another.  A  prophet  is  called  by  ten  different  names.  There  are  ten  names 
for  the  Holy  Spirit.     Ten  are  called  "  living."    Ten  miracles  were  wrought 

for  our  fathers  in  Egypt, 103-115 

MiSHNAS  /f  TO  O.  Ten  miracles  were  performed  for  our  forefathers  in 
Jerusalem.  Jerusalem  never  was  defiled  by  leprosy.  How  Kimchith,  the 
mother  of  R.  Ishmael,  saw  her  two  sons  as  high-priests  on  the  same  day. 
The  men  of  Sodom  have  no  share  in  the  world  to  come.  About  Kora'h  and 
his  company.  "  The  Lord  killeth,  and  maketh  alive  ;  he  bringeth  down  to 
the  grave,  and  bringeth  up,"  has  reference  to  them.  The  generation  of  the 
desert.  "  Gather  together  unto  me  my  pious  servants,  who  make  a  covenant 
with  me  by  sacrifice,"  has  reference  to  them.  The  ten  tribes  have  no  share 
in  the  world  to  come.  R.  Aqiba,  however,  said  :  "  As  the  day  is  first  dark 
and  then  lightens  up,  so  also  their  darkness  will  be  followed  by  light."  The 
following  seven  have  no  share  in  the  world  to  come,  etc.  There  are  three 
kings  and  four  commoners  who  have  no  share  in  the  world  to  come.  Absa- 
lom has  no  share  in  the  world  to  come.  Seven  things  mark  the  clod,  and 
seven  there  are  for  the  sage.  There  are  seven  creations  of  as  many  grades 
of  importance.  Man  possesses  six  qualifications,  three  of  which  belong  also 
to  the  beast,  and  three  to  the  angels.  The  evil  spirits  possess  six  qualifica- 
tions, three  of  which  belong  to  man.  There  are  seven  sorts  of  hypocrites. 
That  which  is  hidden  is  only  so  from  human  beings,  but  not  from  Heaven. 
There  are  seven  things  which,  if  used  moderately,  are  wholesome  to  the 
body,  and  if  in  excess  are  the  reverse.  With  seven  things  God  created  the 
world.  Seven  attributes  are  serving  before  the  throne  of  Grace.  There  are 
seven  dwelling-places.  A  wise  man  does  not  speak  before  those  who  sur- 
pass him  in  wisdom  and  years  ;  and  does  not  interrupt  another  in  his 
speech;  admits  the  truth,  etc.  Seven  kinds  of  punishments  come  on  account 
of  seven  cardinal  transgressions.  About  the  execution  of  R.  Simeon  b. 
Gamaliel  and  R.  Ishmael  b.  Elisha  the  high-priest.  Captivity  comes  upon 
the  world,  etc.  Five  are  not  to  be  forgiven.  Four  kinds  of  views  are  held 
by  men  concerning  property, 115-131 


xvi  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

MiSHNAS  Pto  GG.  There  are  four  kinds  of  dispositions  among  men. 
There  are  four  kinds  of  pupils.  There  are  four  kinds  of  charity-givers. 
There  are  four  kinds  of  visitors  of  the  house  of  learning.  There  are  four 
kinds  of  the  disciples  of  the  wise.  Love  inspired  by  ulterior  motives,  etc. 
Whatsoever  gainsaying  is  for  the  sake  of  Heaven  will  have  good  results. 
Wiiosocver  causes  many  to  be  righteous,  sin  prevails  not  over  him.  In 
whomsoever  are  the  following  three  things,  he  is  a  disciple  of  Abraham,  etc. 
Be  courageous  as  the  panther,  light-winged  as  the  eagle,  swift  as  the  deer, 
and  strong  as  the  lion.  One  five  years  old  should  study  Scripture,  etc. 
Turn  it  and  turn  it  again,  for  everything  can  be  found  therein,      .      131-133 

CHAPTER   VI. 

MiSHNAS  A  TO  R.  Whosoever  is  busied  in  Torah  for  the  love  thereof 
merits  many  things.  Every  day  a  Heavenly  voice  goes  forth  from  Mount 
Horeb  and  proclaims  as  follows,  etc.  He  who  learns  from  his  companion 
one  chapter,  etc.,  is  bound  to  do  him  honor.  The  path  of  Torah,  etc. 
Seek  not  greatness  for  thyself,  and  desire  not  honor.  Greater  is  Torah  than 
the  priesthood,  and  than  the  kingdom.  There  are  four  things  which  bear 
good  fruit  in  this  world.  A  meritorious  act  has  both  principal  and  benefit. 
One  who  causes  many  to  be  righteous,  no  sin  prevails  [upon  him.  Regard- 
ing dreams,  there  are  four  sages,  three  scholars,  three  books  of  the  prophets, 
and  three  books  of  the  Hagiographa.  Every  assembly  that  is  for  the  sake  of 
performing  a  religious  duty  remains  everlasting.  Comeliness,  strength, 
wealth,  honor,  wisdom,  age,  hoariness,  and  sons  are  becoming  to  the  right- 
eous, etc.  If  thou  shouldst  give  me  all  the  silver,  gold,  and  goodly  stones 
and  pearls  that  are  in  the  world,  I  would  not  dwell  but  in  a  place  of  Torah. 
Five  possessions  had  the  Holy  One  in  this  world.  Whatsoever  the  Lord 
created  in  this  world  He  created  only  for  His  glory.  There  are  three 
crowns  :  the  crown  of  Torah,  priesthood,  and  kingdom.  Three  things  were 
said  of  charitable  men.  There  are  three  different  kinds  among  scholars. 
There  are  three  different  kinds  of  sweat  that  are  beneficial  to  the  body. 
There  are  six  kinds  of  tears.  There  are  three  advantages  in  an  eartiien 
vessel.  There  are  three  advantages  in  a  glass  vessel.  The  money  that  the 
Israelites  carried  away  from  Egypt  returned  to  Egypt.  If  you  do  the  least 
wrong  to  your  companion,  it  shall  be  considered  by  you  the  greatest  wrong, 
etc.     The  following  articles  were  hidden,  etc.,      ....         133-143 


SYNOPSIS   OF  SUBJECTS 


OF 


TRACT  DERECH  ERETZ-RABBA 
AND  ZUTA. 


RABBA. 


CHAPTER   II. 

Of  the  Sadducees,  common  informers,  the  wicked,  the  hypocrites,  the 
heretics,  the  Scripture  says,  etc.  Of  the  terrifying,  the  overbearing,  the 
haughty,  the  barefaced,  and  of  those  who  develop  only  their  muscular 
strength,  the  Scripture  says,  etc.  Of  evil-thinkers,  story-tellers,  tale-bearers, 
smooth-tongued  persons,  the  Scripture  says,  etc.  Who  assaults  his  neigh- 
bor in  private,  and  who  insults  him  in  public,  etc.  Who  forestalls  fruit, 
raises  the  prices,  diminishes  the  measure,  accepts  payment  in  large-sized 
shekels  only,  and  who  lives  on  usury.  The  following  leave  no  inheritance 
to  their  children,  etc.  The  conceited,  the  slanderers,  and  those  who  indulge 
in  obscene  language,  who  are  wise  in  their  own  eyes,  etc.  Who  lets  his 
young  son  marry  an  older  woman,  and  who  marries  off  his  daughter  to  an 
old  man,  and  who  bestows  favors  upon  those  who  are  unworthy,  etc.  Who 
betrays  his  partner,  does  not  return  a  lost  thing  to  its  rightful  owner,  loans 
money  to  another  in  order  to  get  possession  of  his  house  and  field,  and 
who  lives  immorally  with  his  wife,  and  maliciously  slanders  his  wife,  etc. 
Who  are  wronged  and  do  not  wrong,  who  consider  themselves  contemptible, 
and  who  overcome  their  passion,  etc.  Who  loves  his  wife  as  himself,  honors 
her  more  than  himself,  who  leads  his  children  on  the  right  path,  and  who 
marries  off  his  son  in  due  time,  etc.  Who  loves  his  neighbor,  loans  even  a 
small  amount  to  a  poor  man,  etc.  Who  truthfully  repent,  who  receive  the 
repentant  into  their  midst,  who  judge  rightfully,  reprove  truthfully,  propa- 
gate purity,  are  pure  of  heart,  are  merciful,  distribute  charity,  exert  them- 
selves in  the  study  of  the  Law.  Search  for  an  opportunity  to  do  good,  pur- 
sue righteousness,  etc.  On  account  of  the  following  four  things  an  eclipse 
of  the  sun  occurs,  etc.  On  account  of  the  following  four  things  an  eclipse 
of  both  the  sun  and  the  moon  occurs,  etc.     On  account  of  the  following-  four 


xviii  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

things  the  estates  of  the  citizens  arc  destroyed,  etc.  Do  not  fret  thyself  to 
be  equal  to  the  evil-doers.  There  is  no  sitting  above,  neither  is  there  eating, 
etc., 1-6 


CHAPTERS   III.   TO  VI. 

One  who  bears  in  mind  the  following  four  things,  etc.,  will  never  sin. 
Think  of  a  big  palace  in  the  centre  of  which  the  vat  of  a  tanner  is  placed. 
If  a  man  allows  his  lips  to  pass  only  respectable  words.  Be  careful,  each  of 
you,  in  honoring  your  neighbor.  Be  always  pleasant  at  your  entering  and 
at  your  leaving.  The  angels,  Abraham,  and  Lot.  It  is  customary  that, 
when  entering,  the  master  of  the  house  enter  first  and  the  guest  after  him  ; 
the  reverse  when  leaving.  Never  shall  a  man  enter  the  house  of  his  neigh- 
bor without  permission.  The  philosopher,  Rabban  Gamaliel,  and  his  com- 
rades. Always  consider  strangers  as  burglars,  and  at  the  same  time  honor 
them  as  if  each  of  them  were  R.  Gamaliel  himself.  One  who  enters  his 
neighbor's  house  shall  do  what  he  is  told  by  the  host  (provided  it  is  legiti- 
mate). The  legend  about  Simon  b.  Antiptaris,  his  guests,  and  R.  Jehoshua. 
A  man  shall  never  be  angry  at  his  meals.  Always  shall  a  man  try  to  agree 
with  the  majority  of  the  people.  Hillel  the  Elder,  his  wife,  and  the  poor 
man.  One  shall  not  begin  to  eat  the  heads,  but  the  leaves,  of  garlic  or 
onions, «         i        .        6-12 

CHAPTERS  VII.   TO    IX. 

When  two  are  sitting  at  the  table,  the  elder  one  commences  to  eat  first 
and  the  younger  one  after  him.  One  shall  not  eat  before  the  fourth  hour. 
One  who  enters  a  house  shall  not  ask  for  food,  but  shall  wait  until  he  is 
invited.  One  should  not  offer  presents  to  his  neighbor,  knowing  that  he 
would  not  accept  them.  When  one  who  does  not  intend  to  buy  is  in  the 
market,  he  should  not  ask  for  the  prices,  for  he  misleads  the  sellers.  One 
should  not  use  a  slice  of  bread  to  cover  therewith  a  dish.  Five  things  said 
Rabbi  in  regard  to  bread.  One  who  comes  to  the  table  to  take  his  meal 
ihall  not  take  his  portion  and  give  it  to  the  waiter.  Guests  must  not  give 
yiything  to  the  son  of  the  host,  etc., 12-15 

CHAPTERS  X.  AND  XI. 

One  who  enters  the  bath-house  may  say,  etc.  How  should  one  conduct 
himself  before  bathing  .-•  One  who  is  not  careful  is  an  ass's  equal  ;  one  who 
eats  in  the  market  is  a  dog's  equal.  One  must  not  spit  in  the  presence  of  his 
neighbor,  even  in  a  bath-house.  One  shall  not  greet  his  neighbor  when  he 
is  washing  himself.  He  who  walks  the  road.  A  common  informer  is  con- 
sidered a  murderer.  He  who  hates  his  neighbor  without  cause  is  also  con- 
sidered such.  One  who  sets  a  definite  time  for  the  redemption  of  Israel 
through  Messiah  will  have  no  share  in  the  world  to  come,      .        ,        16-19 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  xix 


ZUTA. 

CHAPTERS  I.  TO  IV. 

What  are  the  qualities  of  sages  ?  Their  thought  concerning  this  world. 
If  you  have  sustained  a  loss  of  your  property,  remember  that  Job,  etc.  When 
you  hear  others  insult  you,  do  not  answer  them.  Love  the  Law  ;  love  all 
creatures  and  respect  them.  Love  doubtfulness.  Keep  aloof  from  everything 
that  may  bring  to  sin.  Keep  aloof  from  grumbling.  Seven  patriarchs  are 
resting  in  glory.  Let  all  thy  ways  be  for  the  sake  of  Heaven,  Do  not  dis- 
cuss in  the  presence  of  one  who  is  greater  than  you  in  wisdom.  Accept  the 
words  of  Law,  even  when  you  are  in  affliction.  Be  afraid  of  a  light  sin.  Do 
not  say,  "  I  will  flatter  this  man,"  etc.  If  thou  hast  done  much  good  to  some 
one,  consider  it  as  very  little.  If  others  have  done  thee  much  wrong,  etc. 
Do  not  hate  the  one  who  reproves  thee.  Let  it  be  thy  habit  to  say,  "  I  do 
not  know."  The  commencement  of  making  vows  is  the  door  to  foolishness. 
Fifteen  customs  are  ascribed  to  the  sages.  Be  as  the  lower  threshhold,  upon 
which  all  persons  tread.  The  society  of  scholars  is  always  agreeable.  What 
should  one  study  more — Scripture,  Mishnayoth,  or  Talmud  ?  No  pay  shall 
be  exacted  for  teaching.  Do  not  complain  of  your  being  less  wise  than 
another.  Do  not  complain  that  another  one  is  beautiful  and  you  are  ugly. 
Let  your  ears  not  listen  to  vain  talk.  Be  not  afraid  of  the  court  of  justice  on 
earth.  If  you  perform  all  the  commandments  with  joy,  etc.  All  that  is 
said  above  is  a  warning  to  you,         .......        25-27 


CHAPTERS   V.   TO   IX. 

A  SCHOLAR  must  not  eat  standing,  etc.,  etc.  By  four  things  the  scholar  is 
recognized,  etc.  The  beauty  of  wisdom  is  modesty.  The  beauty  of  noble 
performance  is  secrecy.  Four  things  are  derogatory  to  scholars,  etc.  When 
entering,  the  greater  shall  be  first,  etc.  For  saying  benediction,  the  greater 
is  first.  The  first  step  to  sin  is  in  one's  thoughts.  A  scholar  must  be  care- 
ful in  his  eating,  drinking,  washing,  anointing,  etc.  After  peace  but  not 
after  war.  Rather  follow  behind  a  lion  than  behind  a  woman.  Wiio 
respects  the  sages  ?,  etc.  Keep  aloof  from  anger.  Love  the  poor  in  order 
that  your  childien  shall  not  come  to  poverty,  etc.  If  you  keep  your  mouth 
from  slander,  you  will  spend  all  the  days  of  life  in  peace.  When  you  see 
your  neighbor  has  become  poor,  do  not  refuse  to  help  him.  If  you  lower 
yourself,  the  Lord  will  lift  you  up.  This  world  resembles  the  eyeball  of  a 
man,  etc., 27-31 

THE   CHAPTER  ON   PEACE. 

Although  evil  decrees  are  enacted,  one  after  another,  against  Israel,  still 
they  endure  forever.     Seek  peace  at  the  place  where  you  are,  and  if  you  do 


zz 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 


not  find  it,  seek  it  in  other  places.  All  manner  of  lying  is  prohibited,  except 
it  be  to  make  peace  between  one  and  his  neighbor.  Great  is  peace,  in  that 
the  covenant  of  the  priests  was  made  with  peace.  When  the  Messiah  shall 
come  to  Israel,  he  will  bee^in  with  peace.  Great  is  peace,  in  that  all  the 
benedictions  and  prayers  conclude  with  peace.  He  who  loves  peace  runs 
after  peace,  offers  peace,  and  answers  peace,  the  Holy  One,  etc,      .      31-34 


SYNOPSIS   OF  SUBJECTS 


OF 


TRACT  BABA   KAMA  (THE   FIRST 
GATE).* 


CHAPTER    I. 


MiSHNA  /.  There  are  four  principal  cases  of  tort,  etc.  One  thing  is 
common  to  all.  They  arc  all  likely  to  do  damage  and  must  be  guarded 
against.  The  case  of  doing  damage  by  digging  up  gravel.  The  different 
explanations  of  the  word  "  mabeh "  by  Rabh  and  Samuel  (foot-note). 
There  are  thirteen  principal  tort-feasors.  The  depository, f  etc.  There  are 
twenty-four  principal  tort-feasors.  What  are  the  derivatives  of  all  those 
principals?  Why  are  the  four  principals,  ox,  excavation,  mabeh,  and  fire, 
enumerated  separately  in  the  Scripture  ?  From  what  and  what  kind  of 
property  must  damage  be  collected  ?  When  the  standard  is  taken,  is  it 
taken  of  one's  own  lands  or  of  those  of  the  public  in  general  ?  In  order  not  to 
close  the  door  to  borrowers,  the  sages  have  enacted  that  creditors  should  be 
paid  out  of  the  medium  estates.  If  one  conveys  his  estates  to  one  or  several 
persons,  from  whom  and  from  what  estates  shall  the  creditors  collect  the 
money  due  them  ?  In  case  one  does  a  meritorious  thing  he  shall  do  it  up 
to  one-third, i-l6 

MiSHNAS  //.  TO  V.  In  all  that  I  am  charged  with  taking  care  of  I  have 
prepared  the  damage.  There  is  a  more  rigorous  rule  in  case  of  the  ox 
than  in  the  cases  of  the  pit  and  the  fire,  and  vice  versa.  How  so  ?  If  one 
left  his  ox  in  charge  of  five  persons,  and  one  of  them  left  intentionally  and 
the  ox  caused  damage,  what  is  the  law  ?  No  appraisement  is  made  for  a 
thief  or  robber.  If  one  hypothecates  his  slave  or  his  ox  and  thereafter  sells 
him.  There  is  a  difference  between  movable  and  immovable  real  estate. 
Slaves  are  considered  movable  real  estate.  During  the  killing,  the  bring- 
ing of  the  suit,  and  the  making  of  the  award  there  shall  be  one  and  the 
same  owner.     There  are  five  cases  which  are  considered  non-vicious  and 

*  Sec  introduction  to  Synopsis  in  Tract  Aboth,  Vol.  I.  (IX.),  p.  xi. 
['  Farther  on  we  use  the  term  "  grratuitous  bailee,"   as   being    more   compre- 
hensive. 


ji  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

five  which  are  considered  vicious.  The  tooth  is  considered  vicious  to  con* 
sume,  etc.  What  is  a  Bardalis  ?  What  is  meant  by  "  best  estates  "  ?  The 
meaning  of  the  verse  Is.  xxxii.  20, 16-29 


CHAPTER  II. 

MiSHNAS  /  TO  ///.  What  tendency  makes  the  foot  to  be  considered 
vicious  ?  Cocks  that  were  flying-  from  one  place  to  another,  and  broke 
vessels  with  their  wings.  Cocks  that  were  hopping  on  dough  or  on  fruit, 
and  made  the  same  dirty,  or  that  were  flying  and  the  wind  produced  by 
their  wings  damaged  vessels,  or  that  were  pecking  at  a  rope  from  which  a 
water-pail  was  suspended,  and,  severing  the  rope,  broke  the  water-pail — 
what  is  the  law  ?  The  distinction  between  primary  and  secondary  force. 
A  dog  that  snatched  and  carried  off  a  cake  from  the  burning  coals,  and  with 
the  burning  coal  that  stuck  in  the  cake  set  fire  to  the  barn,  etc.  There  can 
be  viciousness  in  case  of  "  gravel  in  the  usual  way."  If  an  animal  was 
walking  in  a  place  where  it  was  impossible  not  to  kick  up  gravel,  and  she 
kicked,  and  by  so  doing  kicked  up  gravel  and  caused  damage  ;  or  if  an  animal 
caused  damage  by  shaking  the  tail — what  is  the  law  1  What  tendency 
makes  the  tooth  to  be  considered  vicious  ?  It  happened  that  an  ass  con- 
sumed a  loaf  of  bread  contained  in  a  basket  and  chewed  up  the  basket,  etc. 
If  an  animal  was  standing  on  private  ground  and  an  article  was  rolling 
toward  the  private  ground,  etc.  About  one  who  takes  up  his  dwelling  in 
the  court  of  his  neighbor  without  the  latter's  knowledge.  One  who  rents  a 
house  from  Reuben  must  pay  the  rent  to  Simeon,  etc.  If  one  uses  an  un- 
occupied house  of  another  for  storing  wood  and  straw,  etc.,  what  is  the  law? 
A  certain  person  erected  a  palace  on  the  ruins  belonging  to  orphans,  etc. 
A  dog  or  a  goat  that  jumps  down  from  the  top  of  a  roof  and  breaks  vessels 
liable  for  the  whole  damage.  If,  however,  they  fall  down,  there  is  no 
liability.  Is  one's  fire  considered  one's  arrow  or  one's  property  ?  There  is 
no  liability  for  damages  done  by  fire  to  concealed  articles.  How  can  such 
a  case  be  found  in  the  biblical  law  ?  The  mouth  of  an  animal  (consuming 
something  on  the  premises  of  the  plaintiff),  is  it  considered  as  if  yet  in  the 
court  of  the  plaintiff?  There  were  certain  goats  belonging  to  the  family  of 
Tarbu  that  were  doing  damage  to  the  property  of  R.  Joseph,         .        30-47 

MiSHNAS  IV.  TO  VI.  What  ox  is  considered  non-vicious  and  what 
vicious  ?  One  that  has  been  warned  for  three  days.  The  three  days  in 
question,  are  they  such  as  to  make  the  ox  vicious,  or  do  they  also  involve 
the  owner  ?  For  one  who  sets  his  neighbor's  dog  on  a  third  person,  what  is 
the  law  ?  An  ox  that  gored,  pushed,  bit,  lay  down  on,  or  kicked  while  on 
public  ground  pays  half.  The  a  fortiori  argument  regarding  the  half- 
payment  of  the  horn.  An  ox  that  steps  with  his  foot  on  a  child  lying  on  the 
premises  of  the  plaintiff,  what  is  the  law  in  regard  to  the  payment  of  atone- 
ment money  ?  A  human  being  is  considered  always  vicious.  One  who 
carries  a  stone  in  his  lap  without  being  aware  of  it,  and  while  getting  up 
from  his  seat  drops  it,  as  regards  damages  he  is  liable.  One  who  drops  a 
vessel  from  the  top  of  a  roof  upon  the  ground  which  has  been  covered  with 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  xi 

pillows,  and  if  another  person  remove  them  before  the  dropping  of  the 
vessel,  etc.,  what  is  the  law  ?  Is  a  slave  considered  one's  body,  and  an  ox 
one's  property  ? 47-56 


CHAPTER   III. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  V.  If  one  place  a  jug  on  public  ground  and  another 
person  stumble  over  it  and  break  it,  what  is  the  law  ?  One  who  kicks  an- 
other with  his  knee  is  fined  three  selas  ;  with  the  foot,  five  ;  with  the  fist, 
thirteen  ;  what  is  the  fine  if  one  strike  his  neighbor  with  the  handle  or  the 
iron  of  the  hoe  ?  A  jug  that  broke  on  public  ground  and  its  contents  caused 
9  person  to  slip  and  fall,  or  one  to  be  injured  by  its  fragments,  what  is  the 
law  ?  About  one  who  renounces  ownership  to  his  articles  that  cause 
damage.  One  who  empties'  water  into  public  ground,  or  one  who  builds 
his  fence  of  thorns  ;  or  a  fence  that  falls  into  public  ground,  and  some 
persons  were  injured  thereby,  he  is  liable.  The  former  pious  men  used  to 
bury  their  thorns  and  broken  glass  in  their  fields  three  spans  below  the 
surface.  All  those  who  obstruct  a  public  thoroughfare  by  placing  chattels 
therein  and  cause  damage  are  liable.  If  one  carrying  a  barrel  followed  one 
carrying  a  beam,  and  the  barrel  was  broken  by  the  beam,  what  is  the  law  ? 
Potters  and  glaziers  that  walked  one  following  the  other,  and  one  stumbled 
and  fell,  etc.  If  they  all  fell  because  of  the  first  one,  the  first  is  liable  for  the 
damage  of  all  of  them, 57-69 

MiSHNAS  VI.  TO  X7II.  Two  that  walked  on  public  ground,  one  running 
and  the  other  one  walking,  etc.,  what  is  the  law  ?  One  who  chopped  wood 
on  public  ground  and  caused  damage  on  private  ground,  etc.  One  who 
enters  a  carpenter's  shop  without  permission,  and  was  struck  on  his  face  by 
a  flying  splinter.  About  employees  who  came  to  demand  their  wages  from 
their  employer  and  were  gored  by  his  ox  or  bitten  by  his  dog.  About  two 
non-vicious  oxen  that  wounded  each  other. 

The  difference  in  the  explanation  of  the  verse  Exod.  xxi.  35.  About  a 
non-vicious  ox  that  has  done  damage  and  was  sold,  consecrated,  slaughtered, 
or  presented  to  somebody.  About  an  ox  of  the  value  of  two  hundred  selas 
that  gored  another  ox  of  equal  value  and  the  carcass  was  of  no  value  what- 
ever. There  are  cases  when  one  is  liable  for  the  acts  of  his  ox  and  is  free  if 
they  are  his  own  acts,  and  vice  versa.  How  so  ?  The  rule  is  that  the 
burden  of  proof  is  upon  the  plaintiff.  If  one  claims  that  he  is  positive,  while 
the  other  one  is  not  positive,  what  is  the  law  ?         .        ,        .        .        69-81 


CHAPTER   IV. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  IV,  An  ox  that  gores  four  or  five  oxen  one  after  another, 
the  last  of  them  must  be  paid  from  the  body  of  the  goring  ox,  if  he  was  yet 
considered  non-vicious.  About  an  ox  that  is  vicious  towards  his  own  species, 
but  not  towards  other  species,  or  towards  human  beings,  etc.  There  is  a 
case  where  an  ox  became    vicious   "  in   alternate   order."      About   an  ox 


xii  SYNOPSIS    OF   SUBJECTS. 

belonging  to  an  Israelite  that  gored  an  ox  belonging  to  the  sanctuary  (see  foot- 
note).    An  ox  of  a  sound  person  that  gored  an  ox  belonging  to  a  deaf-mute, 
idiot,  or  minor,  there  is  a  liability.     If  the  reverse  was  the  case  there   is 
none.     There  is  a  difference  of  opinion   of  the  Tanaim  as  to  whether  a 
guardian  is  appointed  in  order  to  collect  from  the  body  of  the  ox.     Guardians 
pay  from  the  best  estates,  but  do  not  pay  the  atonement  money.     About  one 
who  borrows  an  ox  with  the  understanding  that  he  was  non-vicious  and  it 
was  found  out  that  he  was  vicious,  ......         82-93 

MiSHNAS  V.  TO  IX.  An  ox  that  killed  a  man  by  goring  him,  if  he  was 
a  vicious  one,  the  atonement  money  is  to  be  paid,  but  not  when  he  was  a 
non-vicious  one.  How  can  there  be  found  a  vicious  ox  in  regard  to  man  ? 
If  one  confers,  saying,  "  My  ox  has  killed  a  certain  person,"  or  "  his  ox,"  he 
has  to  pay  on  his  own  testimony.  If  one's  fire  has  done  damage  without 
intention,  is  there  a  liability  or  not  ?  About  an  ox  that  was  rubbing  against 
a  wall,  whereby  the  wall  fell  upon  a  human  being  and  killed  him.  About 
an  ox  belonging  to  a  woman,  to  orphans,  or  their  guardian,  etc.,  that  killed 
a  man.  About  an  ox  that  was  sentenced  to  be  put  to  death  and  his  owner 
consecrated  him.  About  an  ox  delivered  to  a  gratuitous  bailee  or  a  borrower, 
etc.  About  an  ox  which  was  properly  locked  up,  but  yet  broke  out  and  did 
damage.  Whence  is  it  deduced  that  one  must  not  raise  a  noxious  dog  in  his 
house,  nor  maintain  a  defective  ladder  ?...,,        93-105 


CHAPTER  V. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  VI.  About  an  ox  that  gored  a  cow  and  the  new-born  calf 
was  found  dead  at  her  side.  The  cow  and  her  offspring  are  not  separately 
appraised.  A  potter  that  placed  his  pottery  in  the  court  of  another,  or  one 
who  led  his  ox  into  the  court  of  another  without  permission,  what  is  the 
law  ?  When  he  assured  the  safety  of  the  ox,  did  it  only  extend  to  him.self  or 
also  to  all  cattle  ?  About  a  woman  that  entered  a  house  to  bake,  and  the 
house-owner's  goat,  having  consumed  the  dough,  became  feverish  and  died. 
About  one  who  enters  a  court  without  permission  and  injures  the  court- 
owner,  or  the  latter  is  injured  through  him.  About  one  who  said:  "Lead 
in  your  ox  and  take  care  of  him,"  and  he  did  damage  or  was  injured.  About 
an  ox  which  intended  to  gore  another  ox,  and  injured  a  woman  and  caused 
her  to  miscarry.  To  whom  must  the  compensation  for  the  miscarriage  be 
paid,  to  the  woman  or  to  her  husband  ?  Does  the  increase  in  the  valuation 
also  belong  to  the  husband  ?  About  an  Israelite's  pledge  which  is  in  the 
hands  of  a  proselyte,  and  the  latter  dies  without  heirs.  About  one  who  digs 
a  pit  on  private  ground  and  opens  it  into  public  ground,  or  vice  versa.  One 
wlio  digs  and  opens  a  well  and  delivers  it  over  to  the  community  is  free. 
About  one  who  digs  a  pit  on  public  ground  and  an  ox  or  an  ass  falls  into  it. 
Are  the  vapors  therein  contained,  or  is  the  shock  received  by  the  animal,  the 
cause  of  death  when  falling  into  a  pit  ?  .         .         .         .         .         106-120 

MiSHNAS  V//.  TO  IX.  When  a  pit  belongs  to  two  partners,  and  one  ■pf 
them  passes  by  and  does  not  cover  it,  and  so  also  does  the  second,  the  latter 
only  is  liable.     About  a  pit  which  was  ten  spans  deep  and  which  was  con?' 


SYNOPSIS    OF   SUBJECTS.  xiii 

pleted  by  another  one  to  be  twenty,  and  still  by  another  one  to  be  thirty 
spans  deep.  Each  span  of  water  equals  two  of  dry  ground.  If  one  dig  a. 
pit  ten  spans  deep  and  another  widen  it  toward  one  direction  only,  what  is 
the  law  ?  One  who  sells  his  house,  the  title  passes  with  the  delivery  of  the 
keys.  If  he  sells  a  flock  of  cattle,  title  passes  with  the  delivery  of  the  Mash- 
khukhith  (the  forerunning  goat  kept  at  the  head  of  the  flock  as  a  leader). 
If  he  covered  the  pit  sufRciently  to  withstand  oxen  but  not  camels,  and 
camels  came  along  and  made  the  cover  shaky  and  then  oxen  fell  therein, 
what  is  the  law  ?  What  about  the  germon  of  damage  ?  About  one  who 
places  a  stone  on  the  edge  of  the  opening  of  a  pit,  and  an  ox  stumbles  over 
the  stone  and  falls  into  the  pit.  About  an  ox  and  a  man  who  together  push 
some  other  into  a  pit.  There  is  no  difference  between  an  ox  and  another 
animal  as  regards  falling  into  a  pit,  to  have  been  kept  distant  from  Mount 
Sinai,  payment  of  double,  restitution  of  lost  property,  unloading,  muzzling, 
Kilayim,  and  Sabbath.  Nor  is  there  any  difference  between  the  above-men- 
tioned and  a  beast  or  bird.  Why  in  the  first  commandments  is  it  not  writ- 
ten "that  it  may  be  well  with  thee,"  while  in  the  second  commandments 
it  is  .? 120-130 


/  CHAPTER   VI. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  ///.  If  one  drive  his  sheep  into  a  sheep-cot  and  properly 
bolt  the  gate,  but  still  they  manage  to  come  out  and  do  damage,  he  is  free. 
There  are  four  things  for  which  one  who  does  them  cannot  be  held  respon- 
sible before  an  earthly  tribunal,  although  he  will  be  punished  for  them  by 
the  Divine  court.  Is  armed  robbery,  when  not  committed  publicly,  still 
considered  theft  as  regards  the  payment  of  double  ?  For  frightening  away 
a  lion  from  one's  neighbor's  field  the  law  awards  no  compensation.  How 
does  it  pay  what  it  damaged  ?  About  one  who  came  before  the  Exilarch 
and  complained  of  another  who  destroyed  one  of  his  trees.  One  who  de- 
stroys a  young  date-tree,  what  amount  of  damage  must  he  pay  ?  There  was 
a  case,  and  Rabh  acted  in  accordance  with  R.  Meir  ;  but  in  his  lectures, 
however,  he  declared  that  the  Halakha  prevails  in  accordance  with  R.  Sim- 
eon b.  Gamaliel  (see  foot-note).  About  one  who  puts  up  a  stack  of  grain  on 
another's  land  without  permission.  One  who  started  a  fire  through  the 
medium  of  a  deaf-mute,  etc., 131-142 

MiSHNAs  IV.  TO  VIII.  The  law  about  one  who  starts  a  fire  and  it  con- 
sumes wood,  stones,  or  earth.  No  chastisements  come  upon  the  world  un- 
less there  are  wicked  ones  in  existence.  When  pestilence  is  raging  in  town, 
stay  indoors,  etc.  Why  does  the  verse  begin  with  the  damage  by  one's 
property  and  end  with  damage  done  by  one's  person  ?  About  a  fire  that 
passed  over  a  fence  four  ells  high.  If  one  starts  a  fire  on  his  own  premises, 
how  far  must  it  pass  to  make  the  starter  liable  ?  About  one  who  causes  his 
neighbor's  stack  of  grain  to  burn  down,  and  there  are  vessels  therein  which 
also  are  burned.  If  one  allowed  another  to  place  a  stack  of  wheat  and  he 
covered  it  with  barley,  or  vice  versa,  what  is  the  law  ?  Is  it  customary 
with  people  to  keep  pearls  in  a  money-pouch  ?  The  law  about  a  spark  that 
escapes  from  under  a  blacksmith's  hammer  and  does  damage,        .     142-148 


xiv  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 


CHAPTER   VII. 

MiSHNA  /.  The  payment  of  double  is  more  rigorous  than  the  payment 
of  four  and  five  fold.  The  law  about  one  who  stole  a  lamb,  and  while  in  his 
possession  it  grew  into  a  ram,  etc.  That  a  change  acquires  title  is  both 
written  and  taught.  Why  did  the  Scripture  say  that  if  he  slaughtered  and 
sold  it  he  must  pay  four  and  five  fold  ?  A  stolen  thing,  which  the  owners 
have  not  resigned  hope  to  regain,  cannot  be  consecrated,  etc.  The  pious  man 
used  to  place  money  in  the  vineyard  on  a  Sabbatical  year,  declaring  :  "  All 
that  is  plucked  and  gathered  of  this  fruit  shall  be  redeemed  by  this  money." 
A  writ  of  replevin  which  does  not  contain  the  following  directions  :  "Inves- 
tigate, take  possession,  and  retain  it  for  yourself,"  is  invalid,  ,     149-159 

MiSHNAS  //.  TO  VI.  About  two  witnesses  who  testify  that  the  one  stole 
an  ox  or  a  sheep,  and  either  the  same  or  other  witnesses  testify  that  he 
slaughtered  or  sold  the  same.  If  he  stole  from  his  father.  From  what  time 
on  is  a  collusive  witness  disqualified  to  give  testimony?  If  two  witnesses 
testify  that  a  certain  person  blinded  his  slave's  eye,  and  thereafter  knocked 
out  one  of  his  teeth,  and  they  also  testify  that  the  owner  of  the  slave  admit- 
ted it,  and  subsequently  the  witnesses  are  found  collusive,  what  must  the 
collusive  witnesses  pay  ?  If  two  witnesses  testify  that  he  stole  it,  and  one 
witness,  or  he  himself,  testified  that  he  slaughtered  or  sold  it,  he  pays  only 
two,  but  not  four  and  five  fold.  One  who  admits  that  he  has  incurred  the 
liability  of  a  fine,  and  thereafter  witnesses  appear,  what  is  the  law  ?  About 
a  confession  which  is  made  after  the  appearance  of  witnesses,  and  the  dif- 
ferent opinions  in  regard  to  it.  If  the  thief  sells  all  but  one  hundredth  part 
of  it  or  he  is  a  co-owner  of  it,  what  is  the  law  ?  One  who  steals  an  animal 
which  is  lame  or  blind,  or  which  belongs  to  a  copartnership  is  liable,  but 
partners  that  steal  together  are  free.  About  one  who  steals  an  animal 
within  the  premises  of  the  owner  and  slaughters  or  sells  it  outside  of  it,  or 
vice  versa.  Why  did  the  Scripture  treat  more  rigorously  with  the  thief 
than  with  the  robber?     Ponder  over  the  greatness  of  labor,  etc.,  .     159-174 

MiSHNA  VII.  No  tender  cattle  must  be  raised  in  Palestine  but  in  its 
forests.  A  shepherd  (who  raises  tender  cattle)  that  repented,  we  do  not 
compel  him  to  sell  out  all  his  cattle  at  once.  No  tender  beasts  shall  be 
raised  in  Palestine,  except  dogs,  cats,  and  monkeys.  R.  A'ha  b.  Papa  said 
in  the  name  of  R.  Hanina  b.  Papa  three  things.  Upon  ten  conditions  did 
Joshua  divide  the  land  among  the  settlers.  The  ten  enactments  of  Ezra. 
No  swine  is  permitted  to  be  raised  at  any  place.  Rabbi,  the  Prince  of  Pales- 
tine, objected  to  the  use  of  the  Syriac  language,  and  insisted  that  only  the 
Holy  and  the  Greek  languages  should  be  used  in  Palestine.  R.  Jose  objected 
to  the  use  of  the  Aramean  language  in  Babylon,  and  insisted  that  the  Holy 
and  the  Persian  languages  should  be  used.  No  dogs  shall  be  kept  unless 
on  a  chain.  In  the  towns  adjoining  the  frontier  they  must  be  kept  on  a 
chain  only  in  the  day  time, 174-181 

CHAPTER   VIII. 

MiSHNAS  /.  AND  //.  The  four  items  of  damage :  pain,  healing,  loss  of 
time,  and  disgrace.     How  so?     It  happened  that  an  ox  lacerated  the  arm 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  xv 

of  a  child,  and  the  case  came  before  Rabha.  etc.  When  the  damage  is  paid 
for,  how  should  the  pain  be  appraised  separately  ?  Healing.  If  pus  col- 
lected by  reason  of  the  wound,  and  the  wound  broke  out  again,  etc.  The 
sages  say  that  healing  and  loss  of  time  go  together.  If  the  defendant  should 
say,  "I  will  cure  you  myself,  the  plaintiff  may  object,"  etc.  Shall  we  assume 
that  the  appraisement  for  the  deafness  is  sufficient,  or  each  of  the  injuries 
must  be  appraised  separately  ?  (See  foot-note.)  If  one  strikes  another  and 
makes  him  temporarily  unfit  to  labor,  what  is  the  law  ?  Disgrace — all  those 
who  sustain  injury  are  looked  upon  as  if  they  were  independent  men,  etc. 
One  who  causes  disgrace  to  a  nude,  blind,  or  sleeping  person  is  liable.  If 
one  causes  shame  to  a  sleeping  person  who  subsequently  dies  while  asleep, 
what  is  the  law  ?  Is  the  reason  because  of  the  hurting  of  his  own  feelings, 
or  because  of  the  feelings  of  his  family  ?  Is  a  blind  person  required  to  per- 
form all  the  commandments  ?  and  what  R.  Joseph,  who  was  blind,  said  of 

that, 182-193 

MiSHNAS  ///.  TO  V.  The  law  is  more  rigorous  in  regard  to  a  man  than 
in  regard  to  an  ox,  etc.  One  who  assaults  his  father  or  mother,  but  does  not 
bruise  them,  and  one  who  wounds  another  on  the  Day  of  Atonement,  are 
liable  to  pay  all  the  items  of  damage.  To  whom  belongs  the  compensation 
received  by  one's  minor  daughter  for  a  wound  ?  About  an  investment  for 
a  minor  and  the  nature  thereof  Is  a  slave  considered  a  "  brother"?  The 
Halakha  prevails  that  the  benefit  in  case  of  a  woman  who  sells  her  right  in 
the  marriage  contract  belongs  to  herself;  and  if  she  bought  estates  therewith, 
her  husband  has  nothing  even  in  their  income.  If  one  blow  into  the  ear  of 
another,  he  pays  one  sela  for  the  disgrace  he  caused  him.  What  if  one 
strikes  another  with  the  palm  or  with  the  back  of  his  hand  on  the  cheek  ? 
This  is  the  rule:  Rank  and  station  of  the  parties  are  taken  into  considera- 
tion. May  a  witness  be  a  judge  in  the  same  case  ?  A  non-vicious  ox  that 
killed  a  man  and  also  caused  damage  to  another,  must  his  owner  pay  for 
the  damage,  besides  the  payment  of  the  atonement  money  ?  All  that  was 
said  concerning  disgrace  is  only  for  the  civil  court,  as  to  how  much  the 
plaintiff  should  receive,  but  there  can  be  no  satisfaction  for  the  injury  to  the 
feelings,  for  which,  if  he  would  even  offer  all  the  best  rams  of  the  world, 
they  would  not  atone,  unless  he  prays  the  plaintiff  for  forgiveness.  The 
origin  of  a  series  of  sayings  by  the  rabbis  as  well  as  by  ordinary  people.  If 
one  says  to  another,  "Break  my  pitcher,"  etc.  A  money-pouch  containing 
charity  funds  was  sent  to  Pumbeditha,  and  R.  Joseph  deposited  it  with  a  cer- 
tain man  who  did  not  take  good  care  of  it  and  it  was  stolen  from  him,  and 
R.  Joseph  held  him  responsible.     What  Abayi  said  to  him  about  it,   193-210 


SYNOPSIS  OF  SUBJECTS 


OF 


TRACT  BABA  KAMA  (THE  FIRST 
GATE).* 


CHAPTER   IX. 


MiSHNAS  /.  TO  ///.  If  a  change  on  the  face  of  an  article  gives  title  to  the 
possessor  and  if  it  is  biblically  ?  Would  all  the  above-mentioned  Tanaim 
trouble  themselves  to  teach  us  a  Halakha  of  the  Beth  Shammai  ?  Robbers 
and  usurers,  if  they  make  a  restitution  of  their  own  accord,  it  should  not  be 
accepted,  etc.  There  are  three  cases  in  which  the  increase  is  appraised  and 
the  payment  is  with  money.  I  and  the  King  Sabura  are  brothers  in  regard 
to  court  cases.  (See  foot-note.)  Did  not  I  tell  you,  You  shall  not  change 
names  ?  R.  Joseph  bar  Hama  used  to  compel  slaves  of  his  debtors  to  labor 
for  him,  etc.  What  were  the  coins  of  Jerusalem  and  what  were  the  coins  of 
Abraham  the  patriarch  ?  Labor  which  cannot  be  recognized  on  the  body 
of  the  animal  as  damaging,  the  civil  court  cannot  make  him  liable  for.  Is  a 
germon  considered  a  direct  pecuniary  loss  ?  May  the  court  decide  a  case  of  a 
goring  ox  in  its  absence  ?  If  a  specialist  took  a  thing  to  repair  it  and  he 
spoiled  it.  A  builder  who  undertook  to  take  apart  a  wall,  and  he  broke  the 
stones  or  bricks.  A  butcher  specialist,  if  he  has  spoiled  the  meat  he  is  a  tort- 
feasor, and  is  also  considered  wilful,  etc.  Why  so  many  reasons  ?  "I  think 
your  brain  is  not  in  regular  order."  "  Rabh  did  two  good  things  regarding 
you.  He  prevented  you  from  using  a  doubtful  thing,  and  also  restrained  you 
from  possible  robbery."  There  was  a  woman  who  showed  a  coin  to  R.  Hyya, 
etc.  Resh  Lakish  showed  a  dinar  to  R.  Elazar,  and  he  told  him  it  was  a  good 
one.     He  said  then  :  "See,  I  rely  upon  you,"  etc.,    ....     211-228 

MiSHNAS  IV.  TO  VIZ.  If  one  gave  wool  to  the  dyer,  and  it  was  spoiled. 
To  be  dyed  red,  and  it  is  dyed  black,  or  conversely.  To  make  a  chair  of  it, 
and  he  has  made  a  bench.  Is  the  color  of  the  dyes  to  be  considered  as  exist- 
ing upon  the  wool  or  not  ?  In  one  tract  is  the  order  of  the  Mishna  not  to  be 
taken  in  consideration,  but  in  two  different  tracts  it  must  be  considered  ?  The 
whole  of  Section  Damages  is  considered  as  one  tract.  If  one  has  given  money 
to  his  messenger  to  buy  wheat,  and  he  buys  barley.  If  one  buys  a  field  in 
the  name  of  his  neighbor.     Kahana  paid  money  for  flax.     In  the  mean  time 

*  Continuation  of  previous  volume. 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  v 

the  flax  became  dearer  and  the  seller  sold  it  (for  Kahana's  benefit).  One 
who  has  stolen  the  value  of  a  coin  swears  falsely  and  afterwards  confesses. 
The  same  is  the  case  in  a  deposit.  If  one  has  robbed  one  of  five  persons, 
and  he  does  not  know  which  of  them.  It  happened  with  one  pious  man  who 
bought  of  one  of  two  persons,  and  he  did  not  know  from  which  of  them.  A 
messenger  must  not  be  made  in  his  absence.  It  happened  with  R.  Abba,  who 
was  the  creditor  of  R.  Joseph  bar  Hama,  and  the  former  asked  R.  Safra  to 
bring,  etc.  "  My  master,  do  you  mean  to  deduce  from  this  Scripture  that  it 
must  be  paid,  or  you  say  is  it  common  ?"  If  one  has  robbed  two  bunches 
of  the  value  of  a  parutha  and  had  returned  one  of  them,  how  is  the  law? 
He  who  denies  a  deposit  is  considered  as  a  robber.  As  soon  as  the  owner 
has  taken  an  oath,  he  has  not  to  pay.  One  who  claims  "stolen"  on  a 
deposit,  or  of  a  lost  article  he  has  found,  must  pay  double,  etc.  The  three 
oaths — first,  that  I  have  done  all  my  duty  in  taking  care  of  it ;  second,  that 
I  did  not  make  use  of  it;  and  third,  that  it  is  not  under  my  control.  If  a 
gratuitous  bailee  swore  it  was  stolen,  and,  nevertheless,  he  paid  :  and  then  the 
thief  was  found.  Where  is  my  bailment?  Lost  !  Do  you  swear  by  God  ? 
Amen.  Witnesses  testified  that  he  himself  had  stolen  it.  If  one  robbed  his 
father  and  swore  falsely,  and  after  his  death  he  confessed.  "  I  swear  you  shall 
have  not  any  benefit  from  my  estate."  If  one  robbed  a  proselyte  and  swore, 
and  afterwards  the  proselyte  died.  The  priests  who  receive  the  robbery 
of  the  proselyte,  are  they  considered  heirs,  or  only  receivers  of  a  dona- 
tion ?      228-250 


CHAPTER   X. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  VI.  If  one  left  money  made  by  usury  for  his  heirs, 
although  they  know  of  it,  they  are  not  obliged  to  return  it.  The  brother-in- 
law  of  R.  Jeremiah,  who  was  a  minor,  shut  the  door  in  his  face,  etc.  The 
testimony  of  witnesses  can  be  taken  even  in  the  absence  of  the  parties.  May 
a  document  be  approved  even  not  in  the  presence  of  the  party,  or  it  must 
not  ?  It  is  an  obligation  on  the  court  to  give  notice  to  the  defendant  that 
his  property  will  be  sold.  A  messenger  of  the  court  should  be  trusted  as 
two  witnesses,  etc.  One  must  not  be  summoned  by  the  court  on  the  eve  of 
a  Sabbath.  Money  must  not  be  changed  from  the  treasury  of  duties,  etc. 
Why  contractors  of  duty  are  counted  among  murderers.  R.  Ashi  happened 
to  be  on  the  road,  and  saw  a  vineyard  in  which  some  grapes  were  ripe,  etc. 
A  contractor  of  the  government  has  the  right  to  pledge  a  fellow-citizen  for 
the  duty  of  another  citizen  of  the  same  city,  etc.  If  the  contractors  returned 
him  instead  of  his  ass  another  one,  etc.  If  one  saved  an  estate  from  the 
stream  or  from  robbers,  etc.  Are  a  woman  and  a  minor  qualified  to  be 
witnesses  ?  A  child  was  telling  :  It  happened  that  my  mother  and  I  were 
prisoners  among  the  heathens,  and  I  did  not  turn  away  my  eyes  from  my 
mother,  etc., 250-262 

MiSHNAS  IV.  TO  V/.  If  one  recognizes  his  utensils  or  books  by  another. 
If  a  thief  has  sold  out  his  stolen  articles,  and  later  it  was  recognized  that  he 
is  the  thief.  If  the  thief  was  a  notorious  one.  If  one  destroys  his  own  goods 
for  the  sake  of  saving  the  goods  of  his  neighl^ors.  The  redemption  money  of 
a  caravan  in  a  desert  is  to  be  charged  proiiortionately  to  the  amount  each  of 


vi  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

them  possesses,  etc.  If  a  robbed  field  was  taken  away  by  land  robbers. 
There  was  a  man  who  showed  to  the  contractor  a  heap  of  wheat  belonging 
to  the  Exilarch.  There  was  a  man  by  whom  a  silver  goblet  was  deposited, 
he  presented  it  when  he  was  attacked  by  robbers,  .  .  .  262-270 
MiSHNAS  VII.  TO  XII.  If  a  stream  has  overflowed  the  robbed  field.  If 
one  says,  I  have  robbed  you,  and  I  don't  know  if  I  have  returned  it  to  you. 
One  must  not  buy  from  the  shepherds  kids  of  goats,  etc.  And  not  fruits  from 
the  watchman.  One  who  robs  his  neighbor,  even  the  value  of  a  parutha,  is 
considered  as  if  he  would  take  away  his  life.  One  shall  not  buy  from  the 
carder  flocks,  because  they  are  not  his  property.  What  about  the  splinters 
which  fall  out  by  the  carpenter  ? 370-277 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS 


OF 


TRACT   BABA   METZIA  (MIDDLE 
GATE). 


CHAPTER  I. 


MiSHNA  /.  Two  persons  who  hold  a  garment,  and  each  of  them  claims 
that  he  has  found  it.  A  biblical  oath  is  given  only  when  there  is  an  admis- 
sion in  part  from  the  defendant.  If  the  plaintiff  claims  a  hundred  and  the 
defendant  says  only  fifty,  and  here  they  are.  If  one  claims  a  hundred,  and 
the  other  denies  all,  and  there  are  witnesses  for  fifty,  what  shall  the  oath 
contain  ?  When  one  of  the  two  holders  overcame  the  other  and  took  it  away, 
what  is  the  law  ?  There  was  a  bath-house  about  which  two  parties  quar- 
relled— one  of  them  arose  and  consecrated  it.  When  two  hold  a  note,  the 
lender  claims  the  note  is  not  yet  paid,  and  the  borrower  says  the  note  is 
paid.  Where  is  "the  theory  of  because"  to  be  used?  The  law  is  that 
leading  gives  title.  If  one  was  found  riding  upon  a  found  ass,  and  another 
was  holding  the  bridle, I-IJ 

MiSHNAS  //.  TO  VI.  If  one  sees  an  article  on  the  road,  and  says  to  his 
neighbor,  bring  it  to  me.  If  one  picks  up  an  article  for  another,  the  latter 
does  not  acquire  title.  Why  so  ?  If  one  has  seen  an  article,  and  he  fell  upon 
it.  If  one  has  seen  people  running  after  a  lame  stag  on  his  field.  It  hap- 
pened that  R.Gamaliel  said:  "The  tithe  which  I  am  going  to  measure 
should  be  delivered  to  Joshuah."  When  one  throws  a  purse  of  money  through 
the  open  door.  When  a  thing  was  found  by  one's  minor  son  or  daughter,  or 
his  Jewish  man  or  maid  servant,  or  his  wife.  When  one  has  found  a  note 
which  secures  real  estate.  If  Reuben  sold  a  field  to  Simeon  with  security, 
and  the  creditor  of  Reuben  came  and  took  it  away.  Encumbered  property  is 
not  liable  either  for  the  used  fruits,  etc.,  for  the  benefit  of  humanity.  How 
a  bill  of  sale  must  be  written.  If  one  buys  an  estate,  knowing  that  the  seller 
is  not  the  real  owner  of  it.  If  the  robber  after  he  has  sold  it  bought  it  from 
the  real  owner.  If  one  says  that  the  estate  which  I  am  about  buy  now  shall 
be  transferred  to  you  at  the  same  time  that  I  acquire  title  to  it.  When  I  wa? 
about  six  or  seven  years  old,  my  father  was  among  the  scribes  of  Mar 
.Samuel's  court.  If  one  claims  a  hundred  zuz,  and  the  other  denies;  after- 
wards he  says,  I  have  paid  it.     If  one  finds  documents  of  divorce,  of  enfran- 


vi  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

chisement  of  a  slave,  of  presents,  etc.  What  is  to  be  considered  a  will  ? 
documents  signed  by  the  court,  documents  of  a  claim,  etc.  What  is  meant 
by  claiming  documents  ?  What  is  called  a  roll  ?  When  three  borrowed  from 
one,  etc., 17-43 


CHAPTER    II. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  VI.  There  are  found  articles  which  belong  to  the  finder 
without  any  proclamation.  If  there  is  a  change  in  the  found  article  which 
usually  ought  not  to  be.  The  renouncing  of  hope  in  regaining  a  lost  article 
whose  loss  is  not  yet  certain.  Amaimar,  Mar  Zutra,  and  R.  Ashi  hap- 
pened 10  be  in  the  garden  of  Mari  bar  Issak,  and  the  gardener  placed  before 
them  dates  and  pomegranates.  The  rule  concerning  a  lost  article  is  this. 
Whether  a  number  is  considered  a  distinguishing  mark  or  not  ?  The  reason 
why  the  sages  decided  that  the  place  is  not  to  be  considered  a  mark.  If  one 
finds  apurse  in  the  market,  how  is  the  law  ?  The  following  articles  he  must 
proclaim.  Three  coins  one  upon  the  other,  etc.  (See  foot-note,  p.  55.)  If 
one  found,  under  a  wooden  wall,  pigeons  tied  one  to  the  other.  If  he  found 
a  covered  vessel.  If  one  found  anything  in  a  heap  of  rubbish.  If  one  has 
seen  money  dropped  on  sand,  and  afterwards  found  and  took  it.  If  one 
found  something  in  a  store.    If  one  found  money  in  fruit  sent  to  him,  .  44-59 

MiSHNAS  VI.  TO  XIJI.  The  returning  according  to  marks  given  is  bib- 
lically or  rabbinically  ?  Until  what  time  is  he  obliged  to  proclaim?  R. 
Ami  happened  to  find  a  purse  with  dinars  in  the  presence  of  a  Roman.  If 
one  identifies  the  article  but  not  its  marks.  If  the  found  article  is  of  such 
a  kind  that  it  labors  for  its  food.  And  if  of  such  a  kind  that  it  does  not  labor. 
If  one  found  books.  If  the  article  was  a  garment.  Vessels  of  silver  and 
copper.  It  is  better  to  drink  a  goblei  irom  the  hand  of  a  witch  than  to  drink 
a  goblet  of  lukewarm  water.  R.  Ismael  b.  Jose  was  on  the  road,  and  met 
a  man  carrying  a  bundle  of  wood.  What  is  to  be  considered  a  lost  thing.? 
If  he  returned  it  and  it  runs  away  again.  What  is  to  be  deduced  from  the 
twofold  expressions  in  many  passages  written  in  the  Scripture  ?  The  loss 
of  time  must  be  appraised  according  to  one's  loss  in  his  special  trade.  If 
he  has  found  the  animal  in  a  stable,  in  a  public  thoroughfare.  The  com- 
mandment of  the  Scripture  is  for  unloading,  but  not  loading.  How  is  this 
to  be  understood  ?  If  one  lost  a  thing,  as  did  his  father  before,  etc.  If  his 
father  and  his  master  were  overloaded.  They  who  occupy  themselves 
with  the  study  of  Scripture  are  not  to  be  blamed,  etc.  See  foot-note, 
P-  79. 59-80 


CHAPTER   III. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  IV.  A  deposit  stolen  or  lost,  paid  by  the  depository,  of 
which  thereafter  tlie  thief  was  found,  to  whom  shall  the  double  amount  be 
paid  ?  A  gratuitous  bailee,  when  he  said,  I  have  neglected  my  duty,  etc. 
There  was  lost  a  deposited  nose-jewel,  and  R.  Na'hman  made  him  pay  by 
force.  Finally  the  article  was  found,  and  was  increased  in  value,  etc.  If 
an  article  was  appraised  for  the  sake  of  a  creditor,  and  the  latter  appraised 


SYNOPSIS    OF   SUBJECTS.  vii 

it  for  his  own  creditor,  may  the  returning  take  place  or  not  ?  From  what 
time  may  the  creditor  use  the  products  of  an  appraised  estate  ?  If  one  has 
hired  a  cow  and  he  loaned  it  to  some  one  else.  It  can  happen  that  the  hirer 
has  a  right  to  require  several  cows  from  the  owner  of  one  cow.  How  so  ? 
A  bailee  who  has  transferred  the  bailment  to  another  bailee,  how  is  the 
law  ?  The  Halakha  prevails,  that  a  bailee  who  has  transferred  the  bailment 
to  another  bailee  of  any  kind  is  responsible.  If  doubtful  money  is  to  be  col- 
lected or  not  (illustrated  in  Mishna  III.)  ?  Do  you  want  to  contradict  a  case 
of  deposit  with  a  case  of  robbery?  A  robber  must  be  punished.  If  there 
was  an  uncertainty  of  both  the  plaintiff  and  the ''elendant,  how  is  the  law? 
If  one  deposits  fruit  at  his  neighbor's  ?  If  one  becomes  a  prisoner,  may  his 
property  be  transferred  to  his  nearest  relatives  or  not?  The  difference 
between  forsaken,  abandoned,  and  a  prisoner's  properties.  The  estate  of  a 
prisoner  must  not  be  transferred  to  a  minor  relative,  and  not  the  estate  of 
a  minor  to  any  relative.  There  was  an  old  woman  who  had  three  daughters; 
together  with  one  of  them  she  was  taken  to  prison,  and  of  the  remaining 
two  one  died  and  left  a  child.  A  brother  of  Mari  b.  Isk  came  to  him  and 
demanded   a  share  of  the  inheritance,    and   he  said,   I   do  not  know  you, 

81-97 
MiSHNAS  V.  TO  X/.  The  quantity  of  usual  losses  one  may  count  to  de- 
posited articles  of  grain  and  fruit  ?  Losses  of  wine  and  oil  depend  upon  the 
kind  of  barrels  in  which  placed.  If  a  barrel  is  deposited  for  safe-keeping,  and 
the  depository  handled  it,  and  it  broke  while  yet  under  his  hand.  Peculiar 
is  the  stretching  of  hands  which  reads  in  regard  to  a  bailee  for  hire,  in  con- 
nection from  the  same  expression  in  the  Scripture  which  reads  in  regard 
to  a  gratuitous  bailee.  If  one  has  deposited  money  for  safe-keeping,  and  the 
depository  tied  it  and  carried  it  on  his  shoulder,  etc.  Nothing  is  considered 
safety  with  money,  unless  it  is  hidden  in  the  ground.  It  happened  that  one 
deposited  money  with  his  neighbor,  and  he  gave  it  to  his  mother  for  safe- 
keeping, and  it  was  stolen.  Money  deposited  for  safe-keeping  with  a  money- 
changer. A  depository  who  stretches  his  hand  for  the  bailment.  If  one 
intends  to  use  a  bailment  deposited  in  his  control  and  says  so,  the  liability 
follows  immediately, 97-109 


CHAPTER   IV. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  V.  If  one  bought  gold  and  silver  coins  together  and  made 
a  drawing  on  the  gold  ones,  title  is  also  given  to  the  silver  ones,  but  notvtcg 
versa.  Rabh  borrowed  dinars  from  the  daughter  of  R.  Hyya  ;  thereafter 
the  dinars  increased  in  value.  One  holds  that  the  law  of  exchange  applies  to 
a  coin  also,  and  another  holds  that  it  does  not.  If  one  were  holding  some 
coins  in  liis  hands  and  said  :  Sell  me  your  articles  for  the  money  I  have 
in  my  hand,  and  the  other  agrees.  If  one  said  :  Sell  me  for  this  amount, 
title  is  acquired,  and  nevertheless  the  law  of  fraud  applies.  According  to 
whom  do  we  write  in  our  legal  papers.  With  an  utensil  which  is  fit  to  con- 
firm with  ?  Biblically,  money  paid  gives  title  ;  why,  then,  was  it  said  that 
drawing  is  needed  ?  According  to  Abayi,  he  who  retracts  ought  to  be  noti- 
fied that  he  will  be  punished  by  Heaven,  and   according  to  Rabha   he  shall 


viii  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

be  cursed.  It  happened  that  one  gave  money  for  poppy,  meanwhile  the 
poppy  increased  in  price.  Tabuth  or  Samuel  b.  Zutrawas  such  kind  of  a  man 
that  he  would  not  change  his  word,  even  if  all  the  goods  of  the  world  were 
delivered  to  him,  and  he  told  :  The  above  case  of  poppy  happened  to  me. 
Cheating,  which  according  to  law  makes  the  sale  null  and  void,  is  in  case 
where  the  sum  of  which  he  was  cheated  counts  four  silver  dinars.  Until 
what  time  the  retraction  may  take  place  ?  The  law  of  fraud  applies  to  the 
buyer  as  well  as  to  the  seller,  to  a  private  as  well  as  to  a  merchant.  There 
is  no  cheating  concerning  a  specialist  who  knows  the  value.  If  one  is  doing 
business  with  his  neighbor  in  trust.  (See  foot-note,  p.  127).  How  much  less 
of  the  quantity  of  a  sala  should  be  effaced,  that  the  law  of  fraud  could  not  be 
claimed  ?     The  prescribed  quantity  for  cheating  is  four  silver  dinars  to  each 

sala, 1 10-132 

MiSHNAS  VI.  TO  X.  There  are  five  fifth  parts  which  must  be  added  to 
the  principal  amount.  The  things  to  which  the  law  of  cheating  does  not 
apply.  Does  the  law  of  cheating  apply  to  a  hire  ?  The  laws  of  usury  and 
cheating  apply  only  to  commoners,  not  to  the  sanctuary.  A  gratuitous 
bailee  docs  not  swear.  If  one  bought  wheat  and  sowed  it  in  the  field,  how 
is  the  law  ?  If  there  was  fraud  to  more  than  a  sixth  of  the  value,  how  is  the 
law  ?  As  cheating  is  prohibited  in  buying  or  selling,  so  it  is  in  words. 
Cheating  in  words  is  more  rigorous  than  cheating  in  money.  To  what  thing 
do  the  western  people  pay  more  attention  ?  One  should  always  be  careful 
with  the  honor  of  his  wife.  The  noted  legend  of  the  oven  of  the  Akhina. 
The  law  is  not  in  the  heavens.  We  do  not  care  for  a  heavenly  voice.  Regard- 
ing cheating,  there  are  three  negative  commandments.  One  must  not 
mix  together  fruits  from  two  separate  fields.  A  merchant  may  buy  grain 
from  five  barns,  and  place  it  in  one  storeroom.  The  embellishment  of  arti- 
cles which  are  to  be  sold  is  forbidden, 132-144 


SYNOPSIS  OF  SUBJECTS 

OF 

TRACT   BABA   METZIA  (MIDDLE 
GATE). 


CHAPTER   V. 


MiSHNAS  /,  TO  IV.  What  is  considered  usury,  and  what  increase?  Why 
does  the  Scripture  mention  separately  a  negative  commandment  regarding 
usury,  robbery,  and  cheating?  A  small  liquid  measure  one  shall  not  fill  up 
in  a  manner  to  make  foam.  Why  is  the  redemption  from  Egypt  mentioned 
in  the  Scripture  in  conjunction  with  usury,  zizitli,  and  weight?  Usurers  are 
equalled  to  shedders  of  blood.  "  That  thy  brother  may  live  with  thee"  (but 
shall  not  die  with  thee,  i.e.,  the  life  of  thyself  is  preferred  to,  etc.).  One  must 
not  fix  a  price  on  fruit  before  the  market  prices  are  announced.  The  many 
things  which  may  be  done  in  a  sale,  but  not  in  a  loan,  as  they  may  appear 
usurious.  The  rule  of  usury  in  transactions  is:  If  one  sells  the  article  cheaper 
because  it  is  not  yet  in  his  possession,  etc.  If  one  has  returned  robbed  money 
with  an  account  of  other  money  he  had  to  give,  he  has  done  his  duty.  A 
render  must  not  dwell  in  his  debtor's  house  "  for  nothing,"  or  even  for  de- 
creased rent.  Hiring  may  be  increased,  but  not  sale.  How  so  ?  One  is 
allowed  to  increase  the  price  of  an  article  when  the  money  is  to  be  paid 
at  a  certain  time  after  delivery  (provided  he  does  not  say  :  "  If  for  cash,  you 
will  have  it  cheaper").  There  are  cases  in  which  the  use  of  the  fruit  is  per- 
mitted to  both,  prohibited  to  both,  permitted  to  the  seller  only.  Stipulations 
which  may  or  may  not  be  made  in  selling  real  estate.  What  is  to  be  con- 
sidered gossip.  Does  an  asmakhta  (for  definition  see  p.  i6o)  give  title  or 
not  ?  There  was  a  man  who  sold  an  estate  with  the  security  of  his  very  best 
estates,  finally  they  were  overflooded.  Is  usufruct  considered  direct  or  in- 
direct usury?  In  places  where  it  is  the  usage  for  the  lender  to  use  the  fruit 
from  a  pledged  estate  without  any  deduction  of  the  debt,  and  the  borrower 
has  a  right  to  return  the  money  at  any  time,  then  is  the  law,  etc.  A  scholar, 
however,  must  not  do  even  this.  From  pledged  estates  a  creditor  of  the 
lender  has  no  right  to  ctllect  in  case  he  dies.  Also  a  first-born  of  the  lender 
cannot  claim  the  double  amount  prescribed  to  him  biblically.  If  the  bor- 
rower say  to  the  lender:  Stop  using  the  fruit,  etc.  The  different  customs  in 
pledging  real  estate  at  Papuna,  Mehusa,  Narsha.  Why  a  pledge  is  called 
mashkhantha 145-166 


X  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

MiSHNAS  V.  TO  XI.  The  law  about  giving  money  or  articles  for  hah 
profit.  The  proper  payment  for  raising  cattk.  Why  R.  Papa  decided  dif- 
ferently in  the  cases  of  the  Samaritans  who  appeared  before  him.  R.  Hama 
used  to  rent  zuzes  daily  for  the  smallest  coin  for  each  zuz  and  he  lost  his 
money.  All  animals  which  are  laboring  for  their  food  may  be  appraised, 
that  the  increase  shall  be  divided  equally.  One  may  say  to  a  farmer:  I  shall 
give  you  twelve  kur  of  grain  instead  of  the  ten  you  demand,  if  you  will 
lend  me  some  money  to  manure  your  field.  One  may  rent  a  boat  on  the 
condition  that  should  it  break  he  shall  be  responsible.  One  may  say  :  I 
take  your  cow  for  the  price  of  thirty  dinars  in  case  it  should  die,  etc.  May 
money  belonging  to  orphans  be  lent  for  usury  or  not?  One  who  lends 
money  for  a  business  which  is  very  likely  to  bring  profit  with  little  chance  of 
loss  is  wicked  ;  for  one  which  is  likely  to  bring  loss  and  far  from  profit,  is  pious, 
etc.  An  iron  sheep  must  not  be  accepted  from  an  Israelite,  etc.  (for  explan- 
ation see  Mishna  VIL).  An  Israelite  may  lend  to  his  race  money  belonging 
to  non-Israelites  for  usury,  etc.  The  interpretation  of  verse  8,  Prov.  xxviii. 
The  meaning  of  verse  24,  Ex.  xxii.  He  who  takes  usury  will  lose  all  his 
possessions.  What  is  to  be  done  with  the  usury  promised  by  or  to  a  heathen, 
after  he  has  been  proselyted.  A  note  in  which  usury  is  mentioned  the  lender 
must  not  be  allowed  to  collect  even  the  principal,  which  he  must  forfeit  as  a 
fine.  Articles  for  delivery  during  the  year  must  not  be  bought  for  a  certain 
price  before  the  market  price  is  fixed.  If  one  travelled  with  stock  from  one 
place  to  another,  and  while  on  the  road  his  neighbor  asked  him  to  sell  to 
him  at  the  price  of  the  place  he  intends  to  go  to,  etc.  What  Samuel  ordered 
the  grain  dealers,  who  used  to  advance  money  for  grain  to  the  farmers,  to  do. 
Also  the  order  of  Rabha  to  the  watchmen.  Are  the  rabbis  consuming 
"  usury  "  by  paying  in  Tishri  for  the  wine  they  will  choose  in  Teveth  when 
it  is  already  in  good  condition?  I  call  your  attention,  master,  to  the  rabbis. 
who  pay  head-tax  charges  for  those  who  cannot  pay  them,  etc.  Seuram  used 
to  compel  doubtful  characters  to  carry  the  palanquin  of  Rabha.  If  one  of  a 
company  of  three  partners  has  given  money  to  a  messenger  to  buy  some- 
thing, it  is  to  be  considered  as  for  the  company,  and  not  as  for  himself.  If 
the  grain  was  to  be  finished  with  two  kinds  of  labor  only,  one  may  fix  the 
price,  but  not  if  he  require  three  kinds  of  labor.  There  was  a  man  who 
paid  a  stipulated  amount  for  an  outfit  to  be  delivered  at  the  house  of  his 
daughter's  father-in-law,  in  the  meantime  the  value  of  the  equipment  was 
reduced,  etc.  One  may  lend  his  gardeners  wheat  to  be  returned  in  the 
harvest-time  the  same  measure,  etc.  (for  meaning  see  p.  184).  Hillel  (the 
First)  says:  A  woman  must  not  lend  a  loaf  of  bread  to  her  neighbor  unless 
a  price  is  stipulated  for  it,  for  fear  wheat  may  become  dearer,  and  then  the 
return  of  the  loaf  (of  the  same  quality)  will  appear  usurious.  The  Hala- 
kha,  however,  does  not  so  prevail.  One  may  say  to  his  neighbor  :  Help  mt 
in  weeding  or  digging  to-day  and  I  will  help  you  on  some  other  day,  etc. 
There  is  a  kind  of  usury  which  may  be  called  preceding  usury,  and  another 
kind  which  maybe  named  succeeding  usury.  How  so?  If  one  owes  his 
neighbor  money  and  it  was  not  customary  for  him  to  greet  him  first,  before 
the  loan,  he  must  not  do  so  after  the  loan  took  place.  If  one  is  aware  that 
his  debtor  has  nothing  with  which  to  pay  he  must  not  pass  him  by.  There 
are  three  who  cry  for  help  and  are  not  heard  ....       166-187 


SYNOPSIS    OF   SUBJECTS.  xi 

CHAPTER  VI. 

MiSHNAS  7.  TO  IV.  He  who  hired  day  laborers  and  they  deceived  one 
another,  there  is  nothing  but  resentment,  etc.  (see  p.  189).  Whoever  changes 
his  words  or  retracts  them  has  to  suffer  for  the  injury  caused.  The  rabbis 
hold  that  the  laborers  have  always  the  preference.  R.  Dossa,  however,  holds 
that  the  employer  has  the  preference.  Said  Rabh  :  The  Halakha  prevails  in 
accordance  with  R.  Dossa.  Did  Rabh  indeed  say  so?  If  one  sold  a  field 
for  a  thousand  zuz,  and  the  buyer  gave  him  a  deposit  of  two  hundred,  and 
the  seller  retracts,  etc.  As  to  whether  a  deposit  gives  title  or  not  Tanaim 
differ  in  their  opinions  in  pages  193-4.  How  a  Bill  of  Sale  must  be  written 
according  to  R.  Simeon  b.  G.  Payment  in  installments  is  valid,  though  it 
was  not  so  stipulated.  If  one  hired  an  ass  for  use  on  a  mountain,  and  he 
used  it  in  a  valley,  or  vice  versa,  although  the  distance  for  which  it  was 
hired  was  equal  (in  both  ways),  the  hirer  is  responsible  for  an  accident. 
Who  is  responsible  for  an  angaria  ?  (See  p.  195.)  If  one  has  hired  an  ass 
for  the  purpose  of  riding,  and  it  dies  while  in  the  middle  of  the  way,  etc. 
If  one  hires  a  boat  and  it  sinks  in  the  middle  of  the  way.  If  one  hires  a  boat 
for  a  certain  place,  and  has  unloaded  it  while  in  the  middle  of  the  way. 
What  may  or  may  not  be  placed  upon  the  ass  which  was  hired  for  riding 
only.  If  one  hires  an  ass  to  be  ridden  by  a  male,  the  same  must  not  be 
ridden  by  a  female.  If  one  hires  a  cow  for  ploughing  on  the  mountain  and 
he  plough  in  a  valley,  etc.  How  is  it  if  the  plough-handle  breaks,  and  there 
has  been  no  change  in  the  agreement,  etc.?  If  one  hired  an  ass  to  carry 
wheat  and  he  used  it  for  barley.  Which  quantity  of  overloading  makes 
one  responsible  to  the  bearing  on  shoulders,  to  a  skiff,  to  a  larger  boat,  and 
to  a  ship 187-201 

MiSHNAS  V.  TO  VI.  All  specialists  are  considered  bailees  for  hire.  One 
may  let  out  a  pledge  of  a  poor  man  and  deduct  the  amount  earned  from  his 
indebtedness.  If  one  hires  a  cow,  how  shall  he  pay  in  case  it  is  lost  ?  (See 
p.  202  for  meaning).  If  one  bought  utensils  from  a  specialist  to  send  to  the 
house  of  one's  father-in-law,  etc.  There  was  a  man  who  sold  wine  to  his 
neighbor,  and  the  buyer  said:  I  shall  carry  it  to  such  a  place,  etc.  Guard 
for  me  this  article  and  I  will  guard  yours  to-morrow;  or,  I  will  lend  you,  or 
vice  versa.  All  arc  considered  bailees  for  hire,  one  to  the  other.  The  two 
cases  in  which  R.  Papa  and  Rabha  were  embarrassed  for  their  decisions  and 
finally  it  was  found  that  their  decisions  were  correct.  If  a  depositary  said  : 
Leave  it  here  "  for  you,"  he  has  no  responsibility  whatever,  but  how  is  the  law 
if  he  said  :  Leave  it  "  anonymously  "  ?  On  a  pledge  he  is  considered  a  bailee 
for  hire.  If  one  carries  a  barrel  from  one  place  to  another  and  breaks  it,  he 
must  swear  that  there  was  no  neglect,  etc.  R.  Eliezer  was  wondering  how 
such  a  decision  could  hold  good.  What  shall  he  swear  ?  I  swear  that  I 
broke  it  unintentionally.  There  were  carriers  who  broke  a  barrel  of  wine 
belonging  to  Rabba  b.  b.  Hana,  while  in  his  service,  and  Rabh  commanded 
Rabba  to  return  their  garments  and  pay  them  for  their  labor,  for  this  is  the 
meaning  of  the  verse,  Prov.  ii.  20 201-208 

CHAPTER   Vn. 
MiSHNA  /.  One  cannot  compel  his  employees  to  come  earlier  or  depart 
later  than  is  customary  at  that  place,  although  it  was  agreed  upon.     It  hap- 


xii  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

pened  with  R.  Johanan  b.  Mathea,  who  said  to  his  son  :  Go  and  hire  laborers 
for  us,  etc.  Resh  Lal<ish's  advice  to  laborers  in  general.  The  legend,  how 
R.  Eliezer  b.  R.  Simeon  was  appointed  by  the  government  to  capture  thieves. 
He  who  would  like  to  see  a  beauty  similar  to  that  of  R.  Johanan  shall  take  a 
silver  goblet  just  out  of  the  worker's,  etc.  The  legend  of  R.  Johanan  with 
Resh  Lakish,  and  how  the  latter  married  the  sister  of  the  former,  and  how 
the  death  of  both  Johanan  and  Resh  Lakish  occurred.  The  continuation  of 
the  legend  about  R.  Eliezer,  how  he  accepted  chastisements  upon  himself, 
how  he  was  kept  unburied,  in  his  attic,  many  years  ;  how  finally  he  was 
buried  ;  what  his  wife  answered  Rabbi  (the  prince)  when  he  asked  her  to 
marry  him  ;  how  Rabbi  has  also  accepted  chastisements,  etc.,  etc.  (wonderful 
legends  from  211-219).  He  who  is  a  scholar  himself  and  his  son  and  grand- 
son are  also,  the  Torah  does  not  depart  from  their  children  for  everlasting, 
etc.  R.  Zera,  when  he  ascended  to  Palestine,  fasted  one  hundred  days  in 
order  to  forget  the  Gemara  of  the  Babylonians,  etc.  Resh  Lakish  used  to 
mark  the  caves  of  the  rabbis.  R.  Zera's  dream.  Elijah  (the  Prophet)  fre- 
quently appeared  in  the  college  of  Rabbi.  (See  the  whole  legend,  pp.  222- 
224.)  The  Hagadah  about  Abraham  with  the  Angels  ;  the  names  of  those 
Angels.  Why  did  the  Lord  change  Sarah's  words  when  telling  them  to 
Abraham  ?  Until  the  time  of  Abraham  there  was  no  mark  of  old  age  ;  untril 
the  time  of  Jacob  there  was  no  sickness;  until  the  time  of  Elisha  there  was 

no  one  who  became  cured  from  sickness 208-229 

MiSHNAS  //.  TO  IX.  Who  are  the  laborers  who  have  a  right,  according 
to  the  law  of  Scripture,  to  partake  of  the  fruits  of  their  labors  ?  Whence  is 
all  this  deduced  ?  The  particular  law  about  muzzling  an  ox  while  laboring. 
How  is  the  law  if  the  animal  is  sick  and  the  consuming  of  grain  injures  it  ? 
May  it  be  muzzled  "i  When  Gentiles  steal  bulls  and  castrate  them,  and 
return  them  to  their  owners,  may  the  Israelites  use  them  or  not?  (See 
footnote,  p.  235.)  If  one  has  "muzzled"  a  cow  only  with  his  voice,  or  if 
one  leads  two  kinds  of  animals  with  his  voice  only,  is  he  guilty  or  not  ? 
R.  Papa  and  also  R.  Ashi  told  in  their  colleges  what  they  were  questioned 
and  decided  not  in  accordance  with  the  existing  laws  and  the  reasons.  Why 
the  labor  of  a  workingman  entitles  him  to  consume  the  fruit  of  that  with 
which  he  is  laboring.  If  one  is  occupied  with  pressing  dates,  he  must  not 
consume  ^ra/^j,  and  vice  versa.  A  laborer  must  not  consume  more  than 
his  wages,  etc.  Does  the  Scripture  add  to  his  wage  the  consuming  of  the 
fruit  with  which  he  is  engaged  ?  Or  is  it  a  part  of  his  wage  ?  A  laborer 
has  the  right  to  make  a  stipulation  that  he  shall  not  eat  what  he  is  entitled 
to  and  take  money  for  it  instead.  Watchmen  of  fruits  are  permitted  to  eat, 
according  to  the  custom  of  the  country,  etc.  The  following  laborers  have  a 
right  to  partake  according  to  the  law  of  Scripture,  etc.  There  are  four  kinds 
of  bailees  :  A  gratuitous  bailee,  a  borrower,  a  bailee  for  hire,  and  a  hirer. 
For  what  loss  must  a  hirer  pay  ?  What  is  the  extent  of  the  duty  of  the 
bailee  for  hire  ?  Abu  placed  flocks  at  Rumnia,  and  Shabu,  who  was  an 
errant  robber,  took  them  away.  Although  Abu  proved  that  this  was  the 
case,  R.  Na'hman  held  him  responsible,  etc.  A  single  wolf's  coming  among 
the  flock  is  not  considered  an  accident.  A  robbery  is  considered  an  accident. 
A  natural  death  is  an  accident,  but  not  if  it  is  caused  by  cruelty.  A  gratui- 
tous bailee  has  the  right  to  make  a  stipulation  that  in  case  of  loss  he  shall  be 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  xiii 

freed  from  taking  an  oath.  A  stipulation  made  contrary  to  that  which  is 
written  in  the  Scripture  is  of  no  avail.  A  bailee  for  hire  may  stipulate  that 
he  shall  be  equal  to  a  borrower.  But  how  shall  a  stipulation  of  this  kind  be 
made  verbally,  only  ? 230-248 

CHAPTER   VIII. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  IV.  If  one  borrows  a  cow,  and  at  the  same  time  hires  or 
borrows  its  owner,  etc.  There  are  four  kinds  of  bailees,  etc.  Whence  do 
we  deduce  all  this  ?  How  do  we  know  that  he  is  responsible  in  case  of  con- 
fiscation also  ?  There  is  no  responsibility  when  the  owner  works  together 
with  the  borrowed  article.  (Expl.,  see  252.)  If  one  tells  his  messenger  that 
he  shall  substitute  him  in  service  to  his  neighbor,  together  with  his  cow, 
how  is  the  law  if  the  cow  breaks  or  dies  while  laboring  ?  If  one  borrows 
another's  slave  and  cow,  how  is  the  law  ?  What  should  a  husband  who 
uses  the  estate  of  his  wife  be  considered — a  borrower  or  a  hirer  ?  If  the 
body  of  the  animal  becomes  lean  because  of  the  labor,  how  is  the  law  ? 
Maraimar  b.  Hanina  hired  mules  from  Huzai,  and  the  former  overworked 
them,  and  they  died,  etc.  If  one  borrowed  a  cow  for  half  a  day  and  for  the 
other  half  a  day  he  hires  it,  etc.  If  one  has  borrowed  a  cow,  and  the  owner 
sends  it  to  him  by  his  son,  slave,  or  messenger,  or  even  by  the  same  persons 
of  the  borrower,  and  it  dies  while  on  the  road  ?  If  one  borrows  a  hatchet ; 
if  he  has  done  some  work  with  it,  he  acquires  title  to  it  for  the  time  bor- 
rowed. Is  the  law  concerning  an  ordinary  man  equal  to  that  of  the  sanc- 
tuary ?  If  one  exchanges  an  ass  for  a  cow,  and  it  brought  forth  young.  If 
one  possesses  two  male  slaves  or  two  fields,  one  large  and  one  small,  and 
the  buyer  claims  :  I  bought  the  large  one,  etc.     ....         249-264 

MiSHNAS  V.  TO  IX.  If  one  sold  out  his  olive  trees  for  fuel,  and  there  were 
still  bad  olives  on  them.  Olive  trees  which  were  overflooded,  taken  out  and 
planted  in  another's  field,  etc.  If  one  has  planted  trees  in  a  field  belonging 
to  another  without  the  consent  of  the  owner.  If  one  has  rebuilt  a  ruin  of 
one's  neighbor  without  his  consent.  If  one  rents  a  house  (without  appoint- 
ing the  time)  in  the  rain  season,  etc.  All  the  terms  are  fixed  only  for  giving 
notice.  This  notice  is  to  be  given  by  the  owner  of  the  house  as  well  as  by 
the  tenant.  The  owner  of  the  house  is  obliged  to  give  to  the  tenant  a  door 
bolt,  a  lock,  etc.  However,  things  which  can  be  done  by  any  one  the  tenant 
has  to  furnish  himself.  Whose  duty  is  it  to  furnish  a  mezuzah  ?  The  ma- 
nure belongs  to  the  owner,  etc.  If  the  year  was  made  a  leap  year  the  tenant 
reaps  the  benefit  of  the  intercalation.  However,  if  he  rented  him  the  house 
monthly,  the  intercalation  belongs  to  the  owner.  In  an  agreement,  which  is  to 
be  considered,  the  first  expression,  or  the  last  ?  If  the  renter  says  :  I  have  paid; 
and  the  owner  claims:  I  have  not  received  it,  who  of  them  must  bring  evidence.'' 
If  one  has  rented  out  a  house  for  ten  years,  and  has  signed  the  lease  without 
a  date,  etc.     If  a  man  rents  out  a  house  and  it  falls,  etc.      .        .        264-272 

CHAPTER   IX. 

MiSHNAS  /,  TO  IV.  One  who  hires  a  field  must  do  as  it  is  customary  in 

that  country,  etc.     If  the  stipulation  was  made  on  wine,  etc.     They  must 

also  prepare  together  the  sticks  needed  for  the  vineyard  for  the  next  year. 

In  Babylon  there  is  a  custom  that  the  gardener  is  not  given  any  straw.     If 


Xiv  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

one  hires  a  field  and  it  was  a  dry  place,  or  a  group  of  trees,  and  thereafter 
the  spring  ceases  to  flow,  etc.  If  the  hirer  told  him  :  Rent  to  me  this  dry 
field,  etc.  If  one  has  undertaken  to  work  up  a  field  and  he  has  neglected  to 
do  so.  Mair,  Jehudah,  Hillel,  Jehoshua,  and  Jose,  tiiese  considered  the 
language  of  the  common  people  legal  (although  it  was  not  in  accordance 
with  the  enactment  of  the  sages).  If  one  lends  money  to  some  one,  he  has 
no  right  to  pledge  him  through  the  court  for  more  than  he  owes  him. 
Rabina  used  to  double  the  amount  in  the  marriage  contract,  etc.  There 
was  one  who  undertook  to  work  up  a  field,  and  he  said  :  Should  I  neglect,  I 
will  give  you  one  thousand  zuz,  etc.  There  was  a  man  who  undertook  a 
field  for  poppy,  sowing  with  wheat,  and  finally  the  wheat  was  worth  more 
than  poppy.  If  one  has  given  articles  for  business  without  any  stipulation,  and 
took  from  him  two  notes,  etc.  If  the  gardener  did  not  want  to  weed  the  field, 
saying  :  I  will  give  you  your  due,  he  must  not  be  listened  to.        .        273-279 

MiSHNAS  y.  TO  /X.  If  one  took  a  field  in  partnership  and  it  was  not  pro- 
ductive. If  one  hires  a  field  and  the  locusts  destroyed  it,  or  it  was  burned. 
If  that  year  was  a  year  of  destruction  or  a  year  without  rain,  etc.  If  this 
happened  once,  he  has  to  sow  it  the  second  time,  etc.  If  one  hires  a  field 
for  ten  kur  wheat  per  annum,  and  the  products  are  poor.  There  was  a 
man  who  hired  a  vineyard  for  ten  barrels  of  wine,  and  thereafter  the  wine 
became  sour.  If  one  takes  a  field  for  sowing  barley,  he  must  not  sow 
wheat  in  it,  etc.  The  explanation  of  Deut.  xxviii.  3-6.  Thirteen  advan- 
tages can  be  gained  by  taking  the  early  morning  meal,  viz.,  etc.  Get  up 
early  in  the  morning  and  eat,  in  the  summer,  because  of  the  heat ;  and  in  the 
winter,  because  of  the  cold  ?  The  advices  given  by  R.  Jehudah  to  the  land- 
surveyor  about  measuring  land,  trenches,  and  the  space  for  anchoring. 
Correct  thyself  first,  and  then  others.  All  the  inhabitants  of  the  city  must 
contribute  to  the  repairing  of  the  wall  of  the  city  if  it  is  destroyed.  If  one 
takes  possession  of  a  dock,  he  is  a  rascal.  If  one  takes  possession  of  a 
field  which  was  placed  between  two  brothers  or  partners,  it  is  considered  a 
piece  of  assurance.  To  a  presented  estate  the  right  of  preemption  does  not 
apply,  etc.  To  a  pledged  estate,  and  if  it  is  sold  for  taxes,  or  for  the  sup- 
port of  a  widow,  or  for  burial,  this  law  does  not  apply.  If  one  hires  a  field 
for  a  few  years  (less  than  seven),  he  must  not  sow  flax  in  it.  R.  Papa  hired 
fields  for  pasture,  and  some  trees  sprouted  in  them,  etc.  Because  you  are 
descendants  of  frail  people,  you  speak  frail  words.  Joseph  had  a  planter 
who  planted  all  his  trees  for  half  product,  and  he  died  and  left  five  sons-in- 
law,  etc.  The  planter  of  Rabbina  did  damage  and  was  discharged  ;  and  he 
came  to  complain  to  Rabha,  etc.  There  was  a  planter  who  said  :  "  Give 
me  what  I  am  entitled  to  of  the  improvements,  as  I  want  to  go  to  Palestine." 
There  was  one  who  pledged  his  vineyard  for  ten  years,  and  it  became  old 
in  eight  years.  There  was  a  note  in  which  was  written  the  year  without  a 
number,  etc.  If  the  gardener  claims:  "I  worked  for  the  half,"  and  the 
owner  says  for  a  third,  who  should  be  trusted  ?  If  orphans  claim  :  "  IVie 
have  made  the  improvements  on  this  estate,"  and  the  creditor  claims:  "It 
was  improved  by  your  deceased  father,"  for  whom  is  it  to  bring  evi- 
dence ? 279-295 

MiSHNAS  X.  TO  X/V.  If  one  hires  a  field  for  the  whole  sabbatic  season 
for  seven  hundred  zuz,  the  sabbatic  year  is  included.     A  day-laborer  has  to 


SYNOPSIS    OF    SUBJECTS.  xv 

collect  his  money  the  whole  night  after  that  day,  etc.  The  transgression 
of  this  comnriandment  comes  and  ceases  with  the  first  morning.  One  who 
withholds  wages  transgresses  the  commandments  of  five  verses,  etc.  The 
commandment:  "In  the  same  day  you  shall  give  his  wage,"  and  also  the 
negative,  "  There  shall  not  abide  .  .  .  until  morning,"  applies  to  men, 
cattle,  and  vessels.  To  a  proselyte  who  promised  not  to  worship  idols  and 
not  to  commit  adultery,  but  not  to  conform  to  other  Jewish  laws,  the  com- 
mandment applies.  One  who  withholds  wages  is  considered  as  if  he  would 
take  out  the  soul.  If  the  storekeeper  or  the  money-changer  failed  to  pay 
him,  may  he  return  his  claim  to  the  owner  or  not  ?  Is  piece-work  subject 
to  that  law  or  not?  If  a  creditor  has  to  pledge  his  debtor,  he  may  do  so 
only  by  court,  etc.  If  things  belonging  to  a  debtor  are  to  be  sold  out, 
has  the  court  to  consider  which  should  be  sold  and  which  left  to  him,  or  is 
all  to  be  sold  out  ?  If  one  lends  money  to  his  neighbor,  he  has  no  right  to 
pledge  him,  is  not  obliged  to  return,  transgresses  all  the  commandments 
which  are  in  the  Scripture  concerning  [pledging] — what  does  this  mean  ?  If 
the  pledge  was  returned  and  the  borrower  died,  etc.  One  who  pledges  a 
nether  and  upper  millstone  transgresses  a  negative  commandment  and  is 
gailty  for  two  articles.  There  was  a  man  who  pledged  a  butcher  knife  from 
his  debtor,  etc ,         .        295-307 

CHAPTER   X. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  VI.  If  one  owns  a  house,  the  upper  chamber  of  which 
belongs  to  another,  and  it  falls.  If  the  attic  was  ruined,  and  the  owner  of 
the  house  declined  to  repair  it.  When  the  tenant  goes  to  dwell  in  the 
lower  apartment,  must  the  owner  vacate  it  for  the  tenant,  or  should  they 
dwell  together  ?  Must  the  party  doing  the  damage  remove  the  cause  of  it, 
or  must  the  injured  party  remove  the  cause  of  the  damage  ?  One  is  re- 
sponsible for  damage  done  to  his  fellow  by  things  which  come  directly  from 
him  (though  it  is  the  obligation  of  every  one  to  keep  aloof  from  damaging 
things).  A  house  with  an  attic,  belonging  to  two  persons,  which  becomes 
ruined  ;  the  owner  of  the  upper  chamber  requires  the  rebuilding,  and  the 
owner  of  the  house  refuses,  etc.  The  same  is  the  case  with  an  olive-press 
which  was  placed  under  a  garden,  etc,  A  wall  or  a  tree  which  falls  sud- 
denly on  a  public  thoroughfare  and  causes  damage,  etc.  What  time  is 
fixed  for  such  a  case  by  the  court  ?  The  same  is  the  case  with  a  laborer 
who  was  told  by  his  employer  to  take  the  articles  with  which  he  was  engaged 
for  payment.  Whether  looking  gives  title  to  an  ownerless  article  or  not,  the 
Tanaim  differ.  One  must  not  place  his  manure  upon  a  public  ground,  un- 
less it  is  immediately  taken  away  by  those  who  want  to  use  it.  If  a  hewer 
of  stones  has  transferred  them  to  the  polisher,  and  they  cause  damage  while 
under  his  control,  the  latter  is  responsible.  When  two  gardens  were 
placed  one  above  the  other,  and  some  herbs  were  grown  between  them,  the 
upper  one  may  use  that  which  he  can  reach  with  his  hand,  provided  he 
does  not  exert  himself  to  reach  them.  This  was  reported  to  the  King 
Sabura.  .        ,        .        ,        , .^07-^i^ 


SYNOPSIS   OF  SUBJECTS 


OF 


TRACT  BAB  A  BATH  R  A  (LAST  GATE). 


CHAPTER   I. 


MiSHNAS  /.  TO  ///.  In  case  of  dividing  partnerships  in  a  yard,  where  and 
of  what  the  wall  shall  be  built.  Is  overlooking  another's  property  considered 
injurious  ?  Of  what  size  the  yard  must  be  to  be  fit  for  division.  May  a  prayer- 
house  be  taken  apart  before  the  new  building  is  ready  ?  The  legend  of 
Herod  the  great  with  Simeon  b.  Shatuh.  How  Herod  built  the  Temple 
without  the  consent  of  the  Roman  government.  Concerning  partitions,  fences 
in  partners'  gardens,  and  valleys.  May  or  may  not  one  be  compelled  to  join 
in  the  expenses  offences  if  one's  estate  is  surrounded  by  his  neighbor's  on 
three  sides  ?  If  there  is  a  wall,  and  one  of  the  owners  claims  that  his  neigh- 
bor did  not  bear  his  share  of  the  expense.  A  debtor  who  says:  I  paid  my 
debt  before  due.  If  the  plaintiff  demanded  his  money  long  after  due.  He 
who  claims,  "  I  have  never  borrowed,"  is  to  be  considered  as  if  he  should 
say,  "I  have  never  paid."  How  and  where  is  a  parapet  to  be  mad*  and  of 
what  size  ?  If  there  were  two  courtyards  one  upon  the  other  ;  there  were 
two  tenants,  and  the  roof  of  the  lower  one  sank  ;  there  was  one  who  built  a 
wall  against  the  window  of  his  neighbor,  etc.  Two  brothers  divided  a 
bequest,  a  palace  and  a  fine  garden,  and  the  latter  built  a  wall  on  the  edge 
of  the  garden.  There  was  a  note  belonging  to  orphans,  against  which  the 
other  party  showed  a  receipt, l-i6 

MiSHNA  JV.  The  sharing  in  the  building  of  a  gate  to  a  courtyard  as  well 
as  to  a  city  wall.  Who  are  obliged  to  pay  taxes  and  duties  of  a  city  ?  Rabbi 
opened  his  barns  of  grain  in  the  years  of  famine,  etc.  How  long  must  one 
dwell  in  a  city  to  be  taxed  ?  Charity  must  be  collected  by  two  persons  and 
distributed  by  three.  May  one  be  pledged  or  not  for  charity  ?  Who  of  the 
poor  must  be  investigated  before  support,  and  who  supported  immediately 
without  inquiry  ?  What  about  one  who  begged  from  door  to  door  ?  The 
virtue  of  charity  equals  the  sum  of  the  virtues  of  all  the  other  commandments 
together.  "  I  was  told  by  the  child  who  was  corrected  by  his  mother,"  etc. 
The  one  who  is  doing  charity  secretly  is  greater  than  Moses  our  master. 
How  is  the  verse,  Prov.  xxi.  21,  to  be  understood  ?  Whosoever  makes  it  his 
business  to  do  charity  will  be  blessed  with  sons  having  wisdom,  wealth,  etc. 
The  discussion  of  Aqiba  with  Tarnusruphus.  As  the  yearly  household  ex- 
penses for  one  are  appointed  (in  Heaven)  on  each  Rosh  Hashana,  so  are  his 

ff£ 


viii  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

losses.  Grace  is  charity  which  nears  the  redeeming,  etc.  How  may  the 
horn  of  Israel  be  raised  ?  Rabban  Johanan  b.  Zakkai  questioned  his  disciples 
as  to  the  meaning  of  the  verse,  Prov.  xiv.  34,  etc.  Iphra  Hurmiz,  the  mother 
of  King  Sabur,  sent  four  hundred  dinars  for  charity  to  R.  Ammi,  etc.  If  one 
bought  a  tract  of  land,  however  small,  he  is  considered  a  citizen  immedi- 
ately,           16-32 

MiSHNA  y.  Partners  cannot  compel  each  other  to  divide.  This  is  the 
rule :  If,  after  division,  each  part  retains  its  former  name,  then  one  can  com- 
pel his  partner  to  divide.  A  yard  must  be  divided  in  accordance  with  the 
doors,  etc.  The  four  ells  which  are  allowed  for  each  door  are  for  unloading. 
If  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  an  alley  desires  to  open  the  door  leading  from 
his  yard  to  another  alley.  Inhabitants  of  alleys  who  desire  to  make  doors  to 
the  street  may  be  prevented  by  the  public.  Prophecy  was  taken  away  from 
the  prophets  and  was  given  to  the  wise,  to  lunatics,  and  children  (how  this 
is  to  be  understood).  There  was  a  man  who  bought  an  estate  near  to  the 
estate  of  his  father-in-law  (who  had  no  male  children).  The  law,  "Either 
you  concede  or  I  concede,"  when  is  it  applied  ?  The  case  of  female  slaves 
whom  Huna  bequeathed  to  his  sons.  May  or  may  not  the  books  of  the 
Bible  be  bound  together  ?  What  must  the  size  of  the  holy  scrolls  be  .''  What 
was  placed  in  the  ark,  and  how.  The  order  of  the  Prophets,  and  who  wrote 
them  ?  Who  was  Job — an  Israelite  or  a  Gentile — and  at  what  time  did  he 
exist,  if  he  existed  at  all  ?  The  legends  about  Satan  and  Job.  Satan  was 
more  afflicted  than  Job  himself,  etc.  Satan  and  Peninnah  both  intended  (with 
their  accusations)  to  please  Heaven,  etc.  The  explanation  of  the  passages 
addressed  out  of  the  storm  wind,  etc.,  etc.  Why  was  not  Job  doubly  rewarded 
with  daughters,  as  he  was  with  sons  and  with  all  his  property  ?  There  are 
three  to  whom  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  gave  a  taste  of  the  world  to 
come  in  this  world.  There  are  six  whom  the  angel  of  death  has  not  domi- 
nated.    There  are  four  who  died  without  sin,  ....        32-54 

CHAPTER    II. 

MiSHNAS  7.  TO  7/7.  How  much  space  is  to  be  left  between  one's  property 
and  another's  ?  For  whom  is  it  to  remove  himself  from  supposed  injury, 
the  supposed  injurer  or  him  who  would  be  injured  ?  One  must  remove  a 
pond  for  steeping  flax  from  herbs,  garlic  from  onions,  and  mustard  from 
bees.  Three  spans  space,  and  plastered  with  lime — arc  both  needed,  or 
does  one  of  them  suffice  ?  Is  one  allowed  to  void  his  urine  near  the  wall  of 
his  neighbor  ?  Under  what  circumstances  one  may  or  may  not  place  an  oven 
in  a  lower  story  of  a  house.  Can  one  of  the  partners  in  a  yard  prevent  his 
partner  from  establishing  a  store  in  it,  or  not  ?  At  what  age  a  child  may  be 
taken  to  school.  The  enactment  of  Joshua  b.  Gamla  concerning  teaching  of 
children.  In  what  circumstances  the  claim,"  You  are  cutting  off  my  livelihood," 
applies?  "  I  doubt  whether  an  inhabitant  of  one  alley  can  prevent  one  of 
another  alley  from  competing  with  him."  The  legend  of  R.  Dimi's  dry 
figs.  How  much  space  is  to  be  left  from  one  wall  to  an  opposite  one,  and 
how  much  to  a  window,    .........         5S~^7 

MiSHNAS  /v.  TO  X/I.  To  what  distance  a  ladder  must  be  removed  from 
one's  neighbor's  pigeon-coop.  The  distance  between  a  pigeon-coop  and  the 
city.    If  a  case  which  we  should  judge  by  a  majority  would  be  diflferent  if 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  ix 

according  to  proximity,  how  is  it  to  be  judged  ?  How  much  space  is  to  be 
left  to  the  city  when  planting  a  fruit  tree  outside  ;  and  how  much  to  a  wild 
one,  to  a  carob,  and  to  a  sycamore.  How  much  to  barns,  to  cemeteries,  and 
to  tanneries.  The  Shekhinah  occupies  every  place.  The  world  is  like  a 
balcony  without  the  fourth  wah,  etc.  On  what  side  of  the  city  a  tannery  may 
be  placed.  He  who  desires  to  increase  his  wisdom  shall  recite  his  prayers 
towards  the  south,  etc.  To  a  well  a  distance  of  twenty-five  ells  must  be 
left  when  planting  a  tree,  etc.  One  must  not  plant  a  tree  near  his  neighbor's 
field,  etc.  A  tree  which  bears  iruit  to  the  measure  of  a  kab  is  forbidden  to 
be  cut  down.  A  tree  which  is  within  sixteen  ells  of  the  boundary  of  another's 
estate  is  considered  robbery,  etc.  If  the  branches  of  a  tree  are  inclined 
towards  another's  field,  what  is  to  be  done  ?  The  branches  of  a  tree  which 
overhang  public  ground  may  be  cut  off,  so  that  a  camel  with  its  rider  may 
pass  freely, 67-82 

CHAPTER   III. 

MiSHNA  /.  The  law  of  occupancy — to  what  it  does  and  does  not  apply. 
Whence  is  it  deduced  ?  What  time  is  needed  for  it,  and  how  a  protest 
against  it  should  be  made.  Must  the  three  years  of  hazakah  be  interrupted  ? 
Who  testifies  as  to  the  occupancy  of  houses  ?  The  many  cases  of  occupied 
houses  which  the  owners  claimed,  brought  before  different  rabbis  of  the 
Amoraim  who  decided  differently.  If  one  claims,  "  It  was  from  my  parents," 
and  the  other  claims  the  same.  There  was  one  who  said  :  "  I  possessed  a 
document  but  lost  the  true  one,  and  this  is  a  correct  copy."  There  was 
another  case  similar  concerning  a  hundred  zuz  in  cash.  It  was  murmured 
among  people  that  Rabha  b.  Sharshum  had  appropriated  land  belonging  to 
orphans,  and  Abayi  sent  for  him.  One  snatched  a  piece  of  silver  from  his 
neighbor  and  the  case  was  brought  before  R.  Ami.  There  was  a  boat  about 
which  two  parties  quarrelled,  each  claiming  that  it  was  his.  If  each  of  the 
parties  claim  :  "This  estate  belonged  to  my  parents."  If  witnesses  testify 
that  the  plaintiff  has  loaded  a  basket  of  fruit  from  this  field  on  the  shoulders 
of  the  defendant,  the  hazakah  is  effected  immediately.  Is  ploughing  a  haza- 
kah, or  not  ?  If  one  has  made  a  hazakah  on  the  trees  and  another  upon 
the  ground,  has  the  owner  of  the  trees  a  share  in  the  ground  ?     .     .    83-100 

MiSHNAS  //.  AND  ///.  There  are  three  lands  concerning  the  law  of  haza- 
kah. If  one  runs  away  from  a  city  because  of  crime,  and  one  occupies  his 
estate,  the  law  of  hazakah  applies.  How  should  one  protest  ?  Is  a  protest 
not  in  one's  presence  to  be  considered  ?  Under  what  circumstances  the 
court  announces  to  the  defendant  that  his  property  will  be  sold.  How  is  it 
when  he  told  them  to  write  a  deed  of  gift  without  an  explanation  ?  A  haza- 
kah to  which  there  is  no  claim  is  not  to  be  considered.  How  so  ?  What 
happened  to  Anan  and  Kaliana,  who  placed  tlieir  fences  on  others'  estates. 
If  the  father  has  consumed  one  year  and  his  son  two,  or  2/ice  versa,  or  each 
of  them  one  year  and  tlie  buyer  from  them  one  year,  is  it  considered  a 
hazakah  ?  The  law  of  hazakah  does  not  apply  to  specialists,  farmers,  etc. 
May  one  who  is  supposed  to  be  interested  in  a  case  be  a  witness  ?  Has  one 
a  right  to  say  :  "  I  cut  myself  off  from  this  estate  entirely  "  ?  If  A  has  robbed 
B  of  a  field  and  has  sold  it  to  C,  then  D  comes  with  a  claim,  has  B  then  any 
right  to  be  a  witness  for  C  ?     If  one  sold  a  field  to  his  neighbor  without 


X  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

security,  he  has  no  right  to  qualify  as  a  witness  concerning  it.  The  an- 
nouncement of  Rabha  or  Papa  about  an  article  which  a  Gentile  takes  away 
from  an  Israelite.  If  one  has  given  his  garment  to  a  specialist,  the  latter 
claiming  two  zuz  and  the  owner  one.  If  one  has  exchanged  his  utensils  for 
another's  in  the  house  of  a  specialist,  etc.  "  Come  and  I  will  tell  you  what 
the  swindlers  of  Pumbeditha  are  doing."  May  a  gardener  be  taken  as  a 
witness  in  case  of  a  claim,  or  not  ?  A  robber — neither  he  nor  his  son  has 
hazakah,  but  his  grandson  has.  A  specialist  or  a  gardener  who  has  ceased 
his  profession,  a  son  who  was  separated  from  his  father,  and  a  woman  who 
was  divorced — all  ot  them  are  considered,  in  a  case  of  hazakah,  with  men 
in  general.  If  one  sold  his  estate  by  duress,  the  sale  is  valid.  Why  so  ? 
Tabba  hanged  Pappi  on  a  tree,  to  compel  him  to  sell  him  his  field.  If  wit- 
nesses testify  they  signed  a  note  whose  amount  was  not  yet  paid,  but  was 
prepared  by  the  borrower  in  case  he  should  find  some  one  who  would  make 
him  the  loan.  "I  did  so  only  with  the  intention  of  pleasing  my  husband, 
but  not  with  the  intention  of  selling  it."  Is  there  no  occupancy  in  the  estate 
of  a  married  woman  ?  If  one  borrowed  from  his  bondsman  and  encumbered 
his  estate  for  him  by  a  document,  and  afterwards  he  freed  him  ?  One  must 
not  accept  bailments  from  women,  slaves,  or  children.  If  one  who  was  the 
business  man  of  the  house,  and  the  bills  of  sale  and  notes  were  in  his  name, 
claims  :  "  All  this  is  my  own  " — what  should  be  the  evidence  ?  Concerning 
a  gift  or  an  inheritance  of  brothers.  Is  it  not  the  duty  of  every  Israelite  to 
save  the  property  of  his  neighbor  from  damage  when  seeing  danger  is  near  ? 
There  cannot  be  a  better  hazakah  than  lifting  up,  as  this  act  gives  title  to 
one  in  everything.  The  estate  of  idolaters,  if  sold  to  an  Israelite,  and  the 
latter  has  not  made  a  hazakah  on  it,  it  is  like  a  desert.  If  an  Israelite  buys 
a  field  from  a  Gentile  and  another  Israelite  comes  and  takes  possession  of  it 
(before  the  bill  of  sale  reaches  the  buyer).  "  I  was  told  by  the  Exilarch 
Uqban  the  following  three  things  :  (a)  That  the  law  of  the  government 
should  be  respected  as  a  law  of  the  Torah,"  etc.,  .  .  .  100-134 
MiSHNAS  IV.  TO  X.  What,  and  under  what  circumstances,  collusive  wit- 
nesses have  to  pay.  If  there  were  three  brothers  and  one  stranger.  There 
is  a  difference  in  usage  of  articles — in  some  cases  hazakah  applies,  and  in 
some  not.  Does  this  rule  always  hold  good  ?  The  wonderful  sayings  and 
acts  of  Bnaha.  Hazakah  does  not  apply  to  movable  pipes  attached  to  drains, 
etc.  What  is  to  be  considered  an  Egyptian  window  ?  To  an  enclosure  the 
size  of  a  span  in  width,  hazakah  applies.  One  must  not  open  windows  to 
the  yard  even  when  he  is  a  partner  in  it.  One  must  not  open,  in  a  yard 
belonging  to  partners,  a  door  or  window  opposite  that  of  one's  partner,  etc. 
One  must  not  make  a  hole  in  public  ground.  "  There  were  enclosures  from 
R,  Ammi's  property  facing  an  alley,"  etc.  When  the  second  Temple  was 
destroyed,  many  of  Israel  separated  themselves  from  eating  meat  and  drink- 
ing wine.  Such  a  thing  must  not  be  decreed,  which  the  majority  of  the  con- 
gregation could  not  endure, 134-146 

CHAPTER   IV. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  V.  If  one  sells  a  house  unconditionally.  If  one  sells  a 
property,  he  must  write  in  the  bill  of  sale  :  "  I  reserve  nothing  of  it  for  my- 
self,"    If  E  owns  a  field  adjoining  A's  field  from  east  to  west,  and  B's  from 


SYNOPSIS    OF   SUBJECTS.  xl 

north  to  south,  and  he  comes  to  sell  it,  etc.  If  A  and  B  were  partners  in  a 
field,  and  A  sold  his  share  to  C.  If  one  sold  a  house  with  the  stipulation 
that  the  upper  diceta  (chamber)  was  reserved  for  him.  If  one  has  sold  the 
house  to  one  man  and  the  diceta  to  another.  Title  is  not  given  to  a  well, 
although  there  is  mentioned  that  one  sold  the  depth  and  the  height.  The 
difference  between  a  sale  and  a  gift.  If  one  sold  a  house,  he  sold  with  it  the 
door,  the  bolt  and  lock,  but  not  the  key.  If  one  sold  a  yard,  the  houses, 
walls,  cellars,  and  caves  are  included,  but  not  movable  property.  If  one 
sells  a  press-house,  the  sale  includes  the  trough,  the  press-beam  or  press- 
stone,  etc 147-158 

MiSHNAS  VI.  TO  IX.  If  one  sells  a  bath-house  the  sale  does  not  include 
the  boards  on  the  floor.  If  one  sells  a  town,  the  sale  includes  houses,  etc.,  but 
not  movable  property.  If  one  sells  a  field,  the  sale  includes  the  stones  which 
are  needed  for  its  use.  From  the  passage.  Gen.  xxxiii,  17,  we  infer  that  the 
boundary  is  sold  to  the  buyer  with  the  field  biblically.  A  depositary  who 
claims  that  he  had  returned  the  bailment,  etc.  In  selling  a  field,  if  it  con- 
tains a  well,  cistern,  etc.,  they  are  not  included  in  the  sale         .         158-166 

CHAPTER   V. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  V.  How  should  one  acquire  title  to  a  boat  ?  To  a  prom- 
issory note  title  is  given  by  transfer  and  bill  of  sale  :  acquire  title  to  it  and  to 
all  the  debts  it  contains  is  traditional  and  also  according  to  common  sense. 
A  bill  of  sale  to  a  wagon  does  not  include  the  mules  when  not  hitched,  and 
vice  versa.  May  the  amount  paid  serve  as  evidence  ?  If  one  sells  an  ass, 
the  harness  is  not  included.  The  khunini  is  not  included  in  the  harness. 
What  does  khumni  mean  ?  If  one  sold  a  she-ass,  its  foal  is  sold  ;  but  if  a 
cow,  the  calf  is  not.  If  one  buys  the  brood  of  a  pigeon-coop  ;  of  a  bee-hive. 
If  one  buys  a  tree  for  cutting  it  down,  he  must  begin  a  span  high  from  the 
ground  ;  an  inoculated  sycamore,  three  spans  ;  a  trunk  of  sycamores,  two. 
If  exactly  three  spans,  it  is  beneficial  for  the  growth  of  the  tree,  etc.,  167-175 

MiSHNAS  VI.  TO  IX.  If  one  buy  two  trees  within  his  neighbor's  field,  the 
ground  beneath  is  not  sold  ;  if  three,  it  is.  Concerning  the  firstfruit  offer- 
ings. If  the  branches  were  wide-spreading.  How  much  space  is  to  be  left 
between  the  trees  in  question,  that  it  should  be  considered  the  buyer's  ?  A 
practised  act  is  more  important  for  evidence.  How  should  the  ground  be- 
longing to  the  buyer  be  measured  ?  If  one  has  sold  two  trees  situated  in 
his  field  and  one  on  the  boundary.  There  are  four  legal  customs  concerning 
sales.  If  one  sold  dark-red  wheat  and  it  was  found  to  be  white,  or  vice  versa, 
etc.  By  what  acts  is  title  given  to  fruit  and  to  flax  ?  The  vessels  of  the 
buyer  give  title  to  him  in  every  place,  except  on  public  ground.  There  are 
four  legal  customs  concerning  sellers,  etc.  To  real  estate  title  is  acquired 
by  money,  deed,  or  hazakah  ;  and  to  personal  property  title  is  given  by 
drawing  only.  To  a  thing  which  is  usually  lifted  up,  title  is  given  by  lifting  ; 
and  usually  drawn,  by  drawing.  If  one  hires  a  servant  to  work  for  him  in 
the  barn  for  one  dinar  a  day,  with  the  stipulation  that  he  shall  work  for  him 
for  the  same  price  in  the  harvest-time.  If  one  sold  wine  or  oil,  and  it  be- 
comes dearer  or  cheaper,       ........         175-190 

MiSHNAS  X.  AND  XL  If  one  sends  his  little  son  to  the  storekeeper  with  a 
pundiun  (dupondius),  but  the  child  loses  the  issar  and  breaks  the  glass.     If 


Xii  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

one  take  a  vessel  from  a  specialist,  to  examine  it,  he  is  responsible  for  an  ac- 
cident. The  wholesaler  has  to  clean  his  measures  once  within  thirty  days. 
Must  overweight  be  given,  and  how  much  ?  The  punishment  for  false  meas- 
uring is  harder  than  for  adultery.  It  is  harder  for  the  cheating  of  a  com- 
moner than  for  the  cheating  of  the  sanctuary.  The  scales  must  be  hangings 
three  spans  in  the  air,  etc.  Weights  must  not  be  made  of  tin,  lead,  cassit- 
erite,  or  other  kinds  of  metal.  One  must  not  keep  in  his  house  an  unjust 
measure,  even  if  he  uses  it  for  a  chamber.  If  the  elders  of  the  city  want  to 
enlarge  the  measures,  it  must  not  be  more  than  a  sixth  of  them.  From  the 
verse  E?ek.  xlv.  12  may  be  inferred  three  things,  etc.  "Those  who  forestall 
fruit,"  etc. — who  are  meant  thereby  ?  There  must  not  be  exported  from  Pal- 
estine things  by  which  a  livelihood  is  made.  It  may  be  prayed  by  blowing 
of  horns  even  on  Sabbath,  when  business  becomes  dull.  One  must  not  emi- 
grate from  Palestine  to  other  provices,  unless  the  price  of  grain  has  increased, 
etc.  "  When  Abraham  our  father  departed  from  this  world,  all  the  great 
men  of  the  nations  stood  up  in  a  file  and  said,"  etc.  "I  remember  when  a 
child  used  to  break  a  piece  of  carob,  threads  of  honey  would  leak  out,"  etc., 

190-203 

Hagadah. 

The  well-known  legends  of  Rabba  b.  b.  Hana  :  Waves,  Hurnim  ben 
Lilith,  roebuck  of  one  day,  alligator.  The  fish  which  destroyed  sixty  cities. 
The  fish  with  two  fins.  About  the  leviathan,  male  and  female.  The  ban- 
quet of  the  upright  in  the  world  to  come.  The  bird  with  her  head  in  the 
sky.  The  geese  from  which  a  whole  river  of  fat  was  running.  The  Arabian 
merchant  who  accompanied  Rabba  in  the  desert,  and  showed  him  the  dead 
of  the  desert  at  the  time  of  Moses.  The  place  where  Korach  with  his  com- 
pany was  swallowed  up,  where  the  earth  and  the  sky  meet,  etc.  What  R. 
Johanan  has  to  tell.  Jehudah  of  Mesopotamia.  What  happened  with  Elie- 
zer  and  Jehoshua  while  on  the  ship.  What  Huna  b.  Nathan  told.  The 
canopies  {chupas)  for  each  upright  in  the  world  to  come.  The  ten  chupas 
made  for  Adam  the  first  in  paradise.  About  Hiram  the  King  of  Tyre  who 
claimed  to  be  a  God.    The  increase  of  Jerusalem  in  the  future,    .     203-213 

Appendix. 
Usucapio  in  the  Roman  Law  ..«•«••       SI4 


SYNOPSIS   OF  SUBJECTS 


OP 


TRACT  BAB  A  BATHRA  (LAST  GATE), 

(PART  II.) 


CHAPTER  VI. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  VIIl.  If  one  sold  fruit  and  it  did  not  sprout,  or  an  ox 
and  thereafter  it  vvas  found  a  goring  one.  May  tiie  trouble  of  slaughtering 
and  selling  the  meat  be  taken  into  consideration  ?  If  an  ox  was  found  killed 
at  the  side  of  another  pasturing  one.  Between  majority  and  hazakah, 
which  should  be  preferred  (see  footnote  p.  217)?  All  hold  the  theory  of 
majority.  If  one  delivered  wheat  for  grinding  to  fine  meal,  but  the  miller 
did  not  properly  grind  it ;  or  if  meal  were  delivered  to  a  baker  and  he  did 
not  bake  it  properly.  If  one  buys  fruit,  he  has  to  accept  a  quarter  of  a  kabh 
of  dust  on  a  saah.  If  he  sold  a  cellar  of  wine,  he  must  accept  ten  harsh 
barrels  on  each  hundred.  If  wheat,  a  quarter  of  a  kabh  of  peas  ;  if  barley, 
a  quarter  of  chaff;  if  lentils,  of  dust.  If  the  buyer  has  found  more  than  the 
above  prescribed  quantity.  The  difference  between  a  cellar  and  M/j  cellar, 
and  also  if  for  keeping  was  added.  May  or  may  not  wine  which  is  sold  in 
retail  stores  be  considered  products  of  the  vine  ?  If  one  sells  wine,  and  it 
turns  sour.  Which  wine  is  considered  an  old  one.  If  one  is  proud,  he  is 
not  tolerated  even  by  his  family.  A  commoner  who  disguises  himself  in  the 
garment  of  a  scholar  cannot  enter  into  the  habitation  of  the  Holy  One,  etc. 
If  one  sells,  or  a  contractor  undertakes  to  build,  a  wedding  or  a  widow 
house.  A  groom  who  resides  in  the  house  of  his  father-in-law  is  lighter 
than  bran,  and  still  lighter  is  an  invited  guest  who  brings  with  him  an 
uninvited  one,  and  still  lighter  is  he  who  answers  before  hearing  the 
question.  If  one  wishes  to  build  a  stable.  If  one  possesses  a  well,  situated 
on  the  other  side  of  his  neighbor's  house,  or  a  garden  inside  of  his  neigh- 
bor's. If  there  was  a  public  thoroughfare  through  one's  field,  etc.  If  one 
sells  a  place  for  digging  a  grave,  or  an  undertaker  makes  a  place  for  one, 
the  inside  of  the  cave  must  be  four  by  six,  etc 215-230 

CHAPTER   VII. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  VI.  I  sell  you  earth  of  the  size  whereon  one  kur  can 
be  sown,  etc.,  or  measured  with  a  line.  In  case  the  buyer  has  to  make 
return,  it  shall  be  in  monev.     If  the  seller  said  "  the  size  of  a  kur,"  without 


xiv  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

any  addition,  how  is  the  law?  "I  sell  you  the  estate,"  with  a  ineasure- 
ment  a  trifle  more  or  less;  or,  "this  estate  .  .  .  with  its  marks  and 
boundaries."  If  two  versions  of  the  seller  contradict  each  other,  which  is  to 
be  considered  ?  The  difference  in  opinion  of  the  Amoraim  in  the  explanation 
of  Mishna  IV.  R.  Papa  bought  an  estate  said  to  be  twenty  saahs — after  it 
was  measured  it  was  found  only  fifteen.  To  two  brothers  who  had  divided 
their  inheritance  came  a  third  brother  (of  whose  existence  they  were  not 
previously  aware).  If  brothers  divided  their  inheritance,  and  a  creditor  of 
their  father  came  and  took  away  the  share  of  one  of  them.  If  the  members 
of  the  court  differ  in  the  amount,  upon  appraisement  brought  before  them. 
"  I  sell  you  the  half  of  the  field  "  ;  "  The  southern  half  of  this  field, "etc. — the 
seller  has  to  give  space  for  a  partition,  etc.,         ....        231-240 

CHAPTER   VIII. 

Mishna  /.  There  are  those  who  bequeath,  and  also  inherit ;  others  who 
inherit  but  do  not  bequeath  ;  and  also  those  who  neither  bequeath  nor 
inherit.  The  passage  [Num.  xxvii.  8]  in  the  Scripture  does  not  correspond 
with  all  that  is  taught  above.  Who  were  the  grandfathers  of  Pinchos  ben 
Elazar  on  his  mother's  side.  If  one  is  about  to  marry,  it  is  advisable  for  him 
to  investigate  the  character  of  the  bride's  brothers.  It  is  better  for  one  to 
hire  himself  to  Abhada  Zarah  (idolatry)  than  to  rely  upon  people  that  shall 
support  him.  Abhada  Zarah  means  "  idolatry."  Literally,  however,  it  is 
"a  strange  service."  Is  the  tribe  of  the  mother's  side  equal  to  the  tribe  of 
the  father's  side  ?  What  happened  to  Janai  and  Jehudah  the  second  when 
they  came  together  ?  The  husband  from  his  wife.  Whence  is  this  deduced  ? 
Whence  came  Pinchos  ben  Elazar  to  have  a  mountain  which  his  father  did 
not  possess  ?  Whence  is  it  deduced  that  the  husband  does  not  inherit  the 
estate  to  which  his  wife  during  her  life  is  only  heir  apparent  ?  In  the  case  of 
a  gift  with  the  ceremony  of  a  sudarium,  whether  healthy  or  sick,  what  time 
may  be  given  him  to  retract,         .......         241-255 

MiSHNAS  //.  TO  IV.  The  order  of  inheritance  is  thus,  etc.  If  one 
decides  that  a  daughter  shall  inherit,  when  there  is  a  daughter  of  a  son,  even 
if  he  were  a  prince  in  Israel,  he  must  not  be  listened  to.  What  happened  to 
Rabban  Johanan  with  the  Sadducean  ?  "  The  daughters  of  Z'lophchod 
have  inherited,"  etc.  The  land  of  Israel  was  divided  among  the  ascendants 
from  Egypt,  and  not  among  their  children.  Joshua  and  Caleb  inherited  the 
shares  of  the  spies.  Whence  is  this  deduced?  May  or  may  not  a  disciple 
be  honored  in  the  presence  of  his  master  ?  Why  is  the  order  in  mentioning 
the  daughters  of  Z'lophchod  different  in  the  Scripture  ?  If  a  woman 
marries  at  less  than  twenty  years  of  age,  she  bears  children  until  sixty  ;  but 
when  she  marries  after  forty,  she  does  not  then  bear  children.  There  were 
seven  men  who  encompassed  the  whole  world  since  its  creation  until  now. 
etc.  How  was  the  land  of  Israel  divided — into  twelve  parts,  or  among  the 
people  severally  ?  The  land  of  Israel  will  be  divided  among  thirteen  tribes. 
A  son  and  a  daughter  are  equal  concerning  inheritance,  etc.  How  shall 
the  double  share  of  the  first-born  be  counted — double  as  to  each  brother  or 
as  to  the  whole  estate.  What  is  the  reason  that  Jacob  took  away  the  privi- 
lege of  the  first-born  from  Reuben  and  gave  it  to  Joseph  ?  Jacob's  children, 
who  came  to  Egypt,  in  sum  you  find  seventy  ;  however,  if  you  will  number 


SYNOPSIS    OF   SUBJECTS.  xv 

them  in  detail,  you  will  find  only  sixty-nine.  In  the  case  of  inheritance  of 
a  promissory  note,  the  first-born  took  a  double  share,  etc.  A  first-born  does 
not  take  a  double  share  in  a  loan.  The  Palestinians,  however,  say  he  does. 
What  is  to  be  done  with  an  estate  bequeathed  for  life  only,  which  the  in- 
heritor has  sold  ?  A  first-born  does  not  inherit  property  to  come  in  the 
future,  and  the  same  is  the  case  with  a  husband.  If  the  first-born  protests 
when  his  brothers  come  to  improve  the  estate  left  by  their  father,       255-271 

MiSHNAS  V.  TO  V/I.  A  will  which  is  against  the  law  of  the  Scripture 
must  not  be  listened  to  ;  however,  if  it  is  as  a  gift,  it  may.  "  My  son  is  my 
first-born,"  he  takes  a  double  share  ;  "  My  son  is  a  first-born,"  he  does  not. 
"  Go  to  Sh'kh'at  my  son,  who  is  a  first-born,  whose  spittle  cures  eyes."  If 
two  wives  of  one  have  born  two  sons  in  a  secret  place  which  was  dark,  and 
it  is  not  known  who  was  born  first,  they  may  write  a  power  of  attorney  each 
to  the  other,  etc.  If  one  was  known  to  the  people  as  a  first-born,  and  his 
father  said  of  another,  etc.  A  creditor  may  collect  from  bondsmen  belong- 
ing to  orphans  for  their  father's  debt.  A  second-cousin,  a  third-cousin,  may 
be  a  witness  (according  to  the  law).  If  one  says,  "This  child  shall  inherit 
all,"  or,  "  My  wife  shall  take  an  equal  share  with  one  of  my  sons,"  he  is  to 
be  listened  to.  If  the  word  "gift"  was  mentioned  in  the  beginning,  etc. 
How  is  this  to  be  illustrated  ?  If  one  wrote,  "  The  field  on  the  east  side 
shall  be  given  to  A,  and  B  shall  inherit  that  on  the  west  side,"  is  title  given 
or  not  ?  All  that  is  said  in  one  speech  is  valid,  except  as  to  idolatry.  If 
one  says  :  "  A  shall  inherit  my  estate,"  and  he  has  a  daughter,  he  said  noth- 
ing ;  or,  "A  shall  inherit  my  estate  instead  of  my  daughter,"  or,  "My 
daughter  instead  of  my  son  " — how  is  the  law  ?  A  Halakha  must  not  be 
taken  for  granted  from  a  discussion  or  from  an  act,  unless  one  is  told  to  do 
so.  Rabbi  said :  My  youth  made  me  presume  to  contradict  Nathan  the 
Babylonian.  If  one  bequeath  all  his  estates  to  his  wife,  he  makes  her  a 
guardian  only.  (All  that  is  said  above  treats  of  a  will  by  a  sick  man.) 
How  is  it  if  this  was  done  while  in  good  health?  If  one  has  bequeathed 
all  his  estates  to  his  sons,  but  has  left  to  his  wife  a  small  portion  of  ground. 
How  is  it  in  a  similar  case  when  one  is  in  good  health  ?  A  sick  person 
who  has  bequeathed  all  his  estate  to  a  stranger,  it  is  to  be  investigated  if  the 
latter  is  in  some  way  fit  to  be  called  a  direct  heir.  An  inheritance  has  no 
interruption,  and  goes  direct  to  the  heirs  of  the  inheritor.  The  rabbis  con- 
demned one  who  bequeathed  his  estate  to  strangers,  leaving  out  his  chil- 
dren.    What  happened  to  Shamai  the  elder  with  Jonathan  b.  Uziel, 

271-297 

MiSHNAS  V///.  TO  XJI.  "  This  is  my  son,"  he  is  to  be  trusted  ;  "  My 
brother,"  he  is  not.  If  one  testify  he  has  divorced  his  wife,  he  is  to  be 
trusted.  If  a  short  period  of  time,  can  one's  testimony  be  divided — that 
for  the  past  he  should  not  be  trusted,  and  for  the  future  he  should  .''  If  a 
sick  person  said  to  witnesses  :  "  Write,  and  give  a  mana  to  so  and  so,"  and 
before  they  did  so  he  dies.  How  is  it  if  the  same  was  said  by  one  in  good 
health  ?  If  one  wishes  to  bequeath  his  estate  to  his  children,  etc.  How  if 
he  has  written  "from  to-day  and  after  my  death"  ?  If  a  sudarium  is  men- 
tioned, no  matter  what  version  was  used,  nothing  is  needed  to  be  added. 
*'  My  estates  are  bequeathed  to  you,  and  after  you  to  B,"  etc.  Who  is 
called  a  crafty  villain  ?  To  a  gift  presented  by  one  who  is  dying,  at  what 
time  is  title  given  ?     There  was  a  woman  who  had  a  tree  on  the  estate  of 


xvi  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

R.,  Bibbi  b.  Abayi,  etc.  If  A  said  to  B,  "  I  give  you  this  ox  as  a  present, 
with  the  stipulation  that  you  shall  return  it  to  me."  If  a  sick  man  said,  "  I 
have  a  mana  with  so  and  so,"  the  witnesses  may  write  this,  etc.  The  Halakha 
prevails  that  it  must  not  be  feared  the  court  will  err.  The  father  has  the 
right  to  gather  the  products  bequeathed  to  his  son,  etc.  If  he  left  grown-up 
and  minor  sons,  the  grown  ones  have  no  right  to  derive  any  benefit  on 
account  of  the  minors,  etc.  How  is  it  if  a  woman  has  borrowed  money, 
consumed  it,  and  thereafter  she  married  without  paying  her  debt,  and 
brought  estates  with  her  at  marriage  ?  "  The  following  is  not  to  be  re- 
turned in  the  jubilee  year,"  etc.  (p.  310).  In  some  respects  the  husband 
■•hould  be  considered  as  an  heir,  and  in  some  respects  as  a  buyer,      297-311 

CHAPTER   IX. 

MiSHNAS  /.  AND  //.  If  one  leave  sons  and  daughters,  if  the  inheritance  is 
of  great  worth,  the  daughters  must  be  supported  from  it  ;  if  a  moderate  one, 
the  daughters  must  be  supported,  and  the  sons  may  go  a-begging.  If  the 
estates  were  of  great  worth,  but  there  was  a  promissory  note  in  the  hands  of 
a  creditor.  If  the  deceased  left  a  widow  and  a  daughter,  and  the  estates  left 
could  support  only  one  of  them.  If  one  leave  sons,  daughters,  and  an  her- 
maphrodite. "  If  my  pregnant  wife  shall  bear  a  male,"  etc.  A  child  of  one 
day  inherits  and  bequeaths,  etc.  All  that  was  said  here  was  taught  in  the 
city  of  Sura.  In  Pumbeditha,  however,  it  was  taught  otherwise,  etc.  One 
Baid,  "  I  bequeath  my  estate  to  the  children  who  shall  be  born  of  you  by  me," 
etc.  One  said,  "  My  estate  shall  be  for  you  and  your  children."  And  R. 
Joseph  decided  :  One  half  of  the  estate  belongs  to  her,  and  the  other  half 
to  her  children.  There  was  one  who  had  sent  home  pieces  of  silk,  without 
any  order  to  which  member  of  his  household  they  belonged,       .         312-321 

MiSHNAS  ///.  TO  VII.  If  one  left  grown-up  and  minor  sons,  and  the 
former  improved  the  estate,  etc.  If  one  has  made  the  wedding  of  his  son  in 
one  of  his  houses,  the  son  acquires  title  to  the  house,  etc.  Three  things  the 
rabbis  enacted  as  laws  without  giving  any  reason.  Brothers  partners  in  busi- 
ness ;  if  one  of  them  was  taken  by  the  government  to  work,  etc.  If  one  of  the 
brothers  took  two  hundred  zuz  to  begin  the  study  of  the  Torah  or  to  learn 
a  trade,  etc.  Wedding  presents  may  be  replevined  by  the  court.  If  one 
has  betrothed  a  woman  and  dies  before  marriage,  a  virgin  collects  two 
hundred  and  a  widow  one  hundred  zuz.  Five  things  were  said  about  wed- 
ding presents  ;  [a)  They  may  be  collected  by  the  court ;  (J>)  they  are  returned 
at  the  time  when  the  donator  marries,  etc.  Who  is  like  unto  a  wealthy  man 
who  is  known  to  be  rich  by  his  many  cattle  and  estates,  etc.?  The  different 
explanations  of  Prov.  xv.  15.  If  one  sends  presents  to  the  home  of  his 
betrothed's  father,  to  the  value  of  one  hundred  manas,  and  has  partaken  of  the 
betrothal  meal,  even  for  one  dinar,  they  are  not  to  be  returned.  How  is  it 
when  the  presents  have  improved,  etc.?  If  a  sick  person  had  bequeathed  all 
his  estates  to  strangers,  etc.  Three  things  Achithophel  charged  his  sons,  etc. 
If  a  sick  person  said  :  "  A  shall  reside  in  such  a  house,"  or,  "  B  shall  con- 
sume the  products  of  such  and  such  a  tree,"  etc.  A  sick  person  who  has 
bequeathed  all  of  his  estates  to  strangers,  it  must  be  investigated  how  was 
the  case.  If  a  sick  person  has  bequeathed  all  his  estates  to  strangers  and 
thereafter  is  cured.    The  expressions,  "  He  shall  take,"  "shall  be  rewarded." 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  xvii 

How  shall  it  be  done  if  he  expresses  himself :  "  A  is  the  one  who  shall  derive 
benefit  from  my  estates"  ?  If  a  sick  person  has  confessed,  "I  owe  so  much 
to  so  and  so,"  siiall  it  be  taken  for  granted,  etc.?  In  five  cases  the  act  of  a. 
gift  is  not  considered  unless  the  bequeather  writes  "all  my  estates."  What 
is  considered  estates  ?  How  is  the  case  with  the  Holy  Scrolls — as  they 
must  not  be  sold,  are  they  considered  estate  or  not,  etc.?  The  mother  of 
Rami  b.  Hama  bequeathed  to  him  her  estates  on  one  evening.  The  mother 
of  R.  Amram  the  Pious  possessed  a  bundle  of  deeds,  etc.  Concerning  a 
gift  in  part  of  a  sick  person — in  one  respect  it  is  equal  to  a  gift  by  one  in 
good  health,  etc.  A  sick  person  who  has  bequeathed  all  his  estates  to 
strangers,  although  made  with  a  sudarium,  if  he  was  cured  he  may  retract. 
If  one  bequeathed  first  to  one  and  thereafter  to  another,  etc.,  .  321-345 
MiSHNA  V/II.  If  in  the  deed  it  was  not  mentioned  that  he  was  sick,  and 
he  claims  that  he  was  sick  at  the  time  of  writing  and  had  a  right  to  retract. 
What  kind  of  evidence  is  required,  etc.  It  happened  in  the  city  of  Bene 
Brack,  tiiat  one  sold  the  estate  of  his  father  and  died;  and  his  relatives  com- 
plained that  he  was  not  of  age  when  he  died.  What  must  be  the  age  of  one 
who  has  the  right  to  sell  the  estates  left  him  by  his  father  ?  How  is  he  to  be 
considered  during  the  nineteenth  year — nineteen,  which  is  still  not  of  age,  or 
twenty  ?  There  was  one  lad  less  than  twenty,  who  had  sold  the  estate  of  his 
father.  If  a  lad  of  thirteen  years  and  one  day  presented  a  gift  to  some  one, 
his  act  is  valid.  If  one  divides  his  estates  verbally,  no  matter  if  he  was  in 
good  health  or  dangerously  sick,  according  to  R.  Elazar  to  real  estate  title 
is  given  by  money,  etc.  It  happened  with  an  inhabitant  of  the  city  of  Mruni, 
who  was  in  Jerusalem,  that  he  possessed  much  valuable  property  which  he 
desired  to  present  to  different  persons,  etc.  If  it  happens  that  a  sick  person 
divides  his  estates  verbally  on  the  Sabbath,  etc.  Suppose  a  house  falls  upon 
A  and  his  father  or  on  any  persons,  that  one  of  them  has  to  be  bequeather 
and  the  other  inheritor,  and  it  is  not  known  who  dies  first.  If  a  son  has  sold 
his  share  of  the  inheritance  of  his  father  to  some  one,  and  dies  while  the 
father  was  still  alive,  and  thereafter  his  father  died,  the  son  of  the  seller  has 
a  right  to  take  away  the  goods  from  the  buyer.  And  this  is  a  complicated 
case  in  the  law  of  money  matters.  A  son  inherits  from  his  mother  when 
he  is  already  in  the  grave,  so  that  his  brothers  from  his  father's  side  should 
inherit  from  him, 345-357 

CHAPTER   X. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  V.  A  simple  get  (document)  the  witnesses  must  sign  at 
the  end  of  the  contents.  A  folded  one,  however,  the  witnesses  must  sign 
outside,  etc.  In  what  place  should  the  witnesses  sign  a  folding  document  ? 
If  the  signatures  of  the  witnesses  were  separated  by  a  space  of  two  lines  from 
the  writing,  the  document  is  invalid  ;  is  it  meant  with  their  usual  space  or 
without  ?  There  was  a  folding  document  which  came  before  Rabbi,  and  he 
said  :  "  There  is  no  date  to  it,"  etc.  All  must  be  done  as  is  customary  in  the 
country.  If  there  was  only  one  witness  to  a  simple,  etc.  If  in  the  document 
was  written,  "  hundred  zuz,"  which  make  twenty  selas,  etc.  If  on  the  top  of 
the  document  was  written  "a  mana,"  and  on  the  bottom  "two  hundred 
zuz,"'  or  vice  versa,  etc.  There  was  a  document  in  which  wa  ,  written,  "six 
hundred  and  a  zuz."  f  ic.    There  was  a  toll-master  of  a  bridge  who  was  a 


xviii  SYNOPSIS    OF   SUBJECTS. 

Jew  who  said  to  Abayi :  "  Let  the  master  show  me  his  signature,"  etc.  A 
divorce  may  be  written  by  the  court  for  a  husband  in  the  absence  of  his 
wife — the  husband  must  pay  the  fees.  Documents  of  arbitrating  and  all 
other  acts  of  mediating  by  the  court  must  not  be  written  unless  both 
parties  are  present — at  the  expense  of  both.  There  was  a  receipt  approved 
by  Jeremiah  b,  Abba.  However,  the  same  woman  came  into  his  court  to 
claim  her  marriage  contract  several  years  later,  etc.  If  one  has  paid  a  part 
of  his  debt,  and  deposited  his  document  with  some  one.  If  it  happened  to 
one  that  a  promissory  note  became  erased,  he  must  find  witnesses.  The 
approval  must  be  written:  "We  three,  E,  F,  G,  the  undersigned,  were 
sitting  together,  and  before  us  was  brought  by  A,  the  son  of  B,  an  erased 
note,"  etc.  If  one  comes  before  the  court  claiming  that  he  has  lost  a  promis- 
sory note  from  so  and  so,  etc.  If  one  has  presented  a  gift  to  his  neip^hbor 
by  a  deed,  if  the  deed  was  returned  by  the  beneficiary  the  gift  is  considered 
returned.  The  following  is  the  order  of  claims  before  the  court.  I'he 
lender  comes  to  the  court  to  complain  that  the  borrower  does  not  pay  his 
debt,  etc.  Concerning  deeds,  they  may  write  another  one  without  mention- 
ing the  responsibility  of  the  seller  for  the  estate,  etc.  There  was  a  woman 
who  gave  money  to  one  that  he  might  buy  estates  for  her,  etc.  If  one  came 
to  claim  a  field  saying  that  he  possesses  a  deed,  and  also  that  it  was  in  his 
possession  the  years  of  hazakah,  etc.  If  there  was  any  forgery  in  the  docu- 
ment, or  there  were  incompetent  witnesses,  the  transferring  is  not  con- 
sidered          357-379 

MiSHNAS  VI.  TO  IX.  If  one  has  paid  a  part  of  his  debt,  according  to 
R.  Jehudah  the  promissory  note  must  be  changed.  According  to  R.  Jose, 
the  lender  has  to  give  a  receipt  for  the  amount  paid.  The  Halakha  prevails 
neither  with  R,  Jehudah  nor  with  R.  Jose,  etc.  If  the  document  was 
written  at  the  date  used  by  the  government,  and  such  a  date  fell  on  a  Sab- 
bath or  on  the  Day  of  Atonement,  etc.  It  happened  with  R.  Itz'hak  b. 
Joseph,  who  had  money  with  R.  Abba,  etc.  Abba  said  to  his  scribe  : 
"  When  it  shall  happen  that  you  have  to  write  a  document  with  a  later  date, 
you  must  write  as  follows  :  This  document  was  postdated  by  us  for  a  cer- 
tain reason,"  etc.  If  one  holds  a  promissory  note  for  a  hundred  zuz,  and 
requests  that  it  shall  be  rewritten  in  two  notes  each  of  fifty  zuz,  etc.  If 
there  were  two  brothers,  one  rich  and  one  poor,  and  they  inherited  from 
their  father  a  bath-house,  or  an  olive-press  house,  if  for  business  they  must 
share  equally  ;  but  if  for  private  use,  etc.  If  there  are  two  persons  who  bear 
one  and  the  same  name,  they  cannot  give  promissory  notes  to  each  other, 
nor  to  any  of  the  inhabitants.  If  a  promissory  note  was  paid,  etc.  If  one 
(while  struggling  with  death)  says  to  his  son :  "  A  promissory  note  among 
the  notes  I  possess  is  paid,  but  I  do  not  remember  which,"  etc.  If  one 
made  a  loan  to  his  neighbor  through  a  surety,  he  must  not  collect  first  from 
the  surety,  etc.  Whether  a  surety  has  to  pay  or  not,  R.  Jehudah  and  R.  Jose 
differ,  etc.  If  the  surety  said  :  "  Lend  to  this  man,  and  I  am  the  surety,"  etc. 
If  the  expression  was,  "Give  to  him,  and  I  will  return  you,"  then  has  the 
lender  nothing  to  do  with  the  borrower.  There  was  a  judge  who  trans- 
ferred the  estate  of  the  borrower  to  the  lender,  before  the  lender  had  de- 
manded his  money  from  the  borrower,  etc.  There  was  a  surety  for  orphans 
who  had  paid  the  lender  before  he  notified  the  orphans.  If  one  was  put 
under  the  ban  because  he  declined  to  pay  his  debts.     If  the  promissory 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  xix 

note  of  the  deceased  was  in  the  hands  of  the  surety,  who  claims  to  have  paid 
the  lender,  etc.  There  was  a  surety  for  a  deceased  debtor  to  a  heathen, 
who  paid  the  heathen  before  he  had  demanded  his  debt  from  the  orphans. 
If  one  made  himself  surety  to  a  woman  for  a  marriage  contract,  etc.  A  sick 
person  who  has  consecrated  all  his  estates,  and  at  the  same  time  said  :  "So 
and  so  has  a  mana  with  me,"  he  may  be  trusted.  A  sick  person  who  said : 
"  A  has  a  mana  with  me,"  and  thereafter  the  orphans  claimed  that  they  have 
paid,  they  are  to  be  trusted.  If  one  borrows  money  on  a  promissory 
note,  the  lender  has  a  right  to  collect  from  encumbered  estates.  If  it  hap- 
pen that  a  creditor  sees  his  debtor  in  the  market,  grapples  him  by  the  t\iroat» 
and  one  passes  by  and  says,  "Leave  him  alone,  I  will  pay,"  he  is  neverthe- 
less free,  because  the  loan  was  made  not  upon  his  surety.  Biblically  there 
is  no  difference  between  a  loan  on  a  document  and  by  word  of  mouth,  and 
it  should  be  collected  from  encumbered  estates.  A  verbal  loan  is  not  col- 
lectible— neither  from  heirs  nor  from  buyers.  If  the  surety  signed  before 
the  signatures,  it  may  be  collected  from  encumbered  estates.  Only  a  surety 
ia  th»  presence  of  the  court  is  free  from  a  sudarium,  but  all  others  are  not, 

379-395 


SYNOPSIS   OF  SUBJECTS 


OF 


TRACT  SANHEDRIN  (SUPREME 
COUNCIL). 


CHAPTER   I. 


MiSHNA  /.  To  which  cases  judges  are  needed  to  decide,  and  to  which 
commoners  ;  which  three,  five,  twenty-three,  and  seventy-one.  The  Great 
Sanhedrin  consisted  of  seventy-one,  and  the  Small  of  twenty-three.  How  many 
a  city  should  contain,  that  it  should  be  fit  for  a  supreme  council.  If  one 
were  known  to  the  majority  of  the  people  as  an  expert,  he  alone  might  decide 
civil  cases.  A  permission  from  the  Exilarch  holds  good  for  the  whole 
country  (of  Babylon  and  also  for  Palestine)  ;  from  the  Prince  in  Palestine, 
for  the  whole  of  Palestine  and  Syria  only  :  he  may  teach  the  law,  decide 
civil  cases,  and  may  also  decide  upon  the  blemishes  of  first-born  animals 
He  (a  priest)  saw  a  divorced  woman  and  married  her,  and  with  this  he 
annulled  his  priesthood.  He  erred  ia  his  opinion — e.g.,  there  were  two, 
Tanaim  and  two  Amoraim  who  differed  in  a  case,  and  he  decided  the  case 
according  to  one.  There  are  three  Tanaim  who  differ  concerning  arbitra- 
tion. When  the  decision  is  already  given  in  accordance  with  the  strict  law, 
an  arbitration  cannot  take  place.  May  or  may  not  a  judge  say,  "  I  do  not 
want  to  decide  this  case  "  ?  and  under  what  circumstances  ?  Is  mediation  a 
meritorious  act,  or  is  it  only  permitted  ?  There  were  many  who  used  to  say 
maxims  of  morality,  and  Samuel  found  that  they  were  only  repetitions  of 
verses  in  the  Scriptures.  "Say  unto  wisdom.  Thou  art  my  sister,"  means,  if 
the  thing  is  certain  to  you  as  that  it  is  prohibited  for  you  to  marry  your 
sister,  then  you  may  say  it ;  but  not  otherwise.  If  one  appoints  a  judge  who 
is  not  fit  to  be  such,  he  is  considered  as  if  he  were  to  plant  a  grove  in  Israel. 
The  court  shall  not  listen  to  the  claims  of  one  party  in  the  absence  of  the 
other  (in  civil  cases).  "You  shall  judge  righteously"  means,  you  shall  de- 
liberate the  case  carefully,  and  make  it  just  in  your  mind,  and  only  thereafter 
may  you  give  your  decision  :  "For  the  judgment  belongeth  to  God."  The 
Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  said  :  "  It  is  the  least  for  the  wicked  to  take  away 
money  from  one  and  give  it  to  another  illegally,"  etc.  Is  warning  needed  to  a 
scholar  ?  Where  is  the  hint  that  collusive  witnesses  are  to  be  punished  with 
stripes?  Punishment  of  stripes  is  not  applied  to  those  who  do  no  manual 
labor.     The  numbers  three,  five,  and  seven — to  what  have  they  a  similarity? 


xii  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

A  year  must  not  be  intercalated  with  one  month,  except  by  them  who  are 
invited  for  it  by  the  Nashi.  Since  the  death  of  the  last  prophets — Haggai, 
Zechariah,  and  Malachi — the  Holy  Spirit  has  left  Israel,  etc.  A  leap  year 
should  not  be  made  because  of  the  kids,  lambs,  etc.  For  the  following  three 
things  a  leap  year  is  made :  Because  of  the  late  arrival  of  Spring,  etc.  A 
leap  year  must  not  be  made  in  the  years  of  famine.  The  year  must  not 
be  intercalary  before  Rosh  Hashana.  A  leap  year  must  not  be  made  in  one 
year  for  the  next.  No  appointment  of  a  leap  year  must  be  because  of  defile- 
ment. If  not  for  Ben  Baba,  the  law  of  fines  would  be  forgotten  from  Israel. 
The  legend  how  Jehudah  b.  Baba  supplied  the  degree  of  Rabbi  to  five  (six) 
elders,  and  by  this  act  he  caused  the  oral  law  not  to  be  forgotten  from  Israel. 
The  custom  of  giving  degrees  must  not  be  used  out  of  Palestine.  What 
is  to  be  considered  second  tithe,  of  which  the  value  is  not  known  ?  Rotten 
fruit,  etc.  "  Every  great  matter,''  means  the  matter  of  a  great  man.  By  the 
whole  tribe,  is  meant  the  head  of  it.  The  legend  how  a  battle  was  decided 
by  King  David.  Whence  do  we  know  that  it  is  a  duty  to  appoint  judges  to 
each  tribe  ?  etc.  The  legend  of  Eldad  and  Medad,  and  what  their  prophecy 
was.  How  Moses  selected  the  seventy  elders  from  each  tribe,  and  also  the 
payment  of  the  first-born  who  were  not  redeemed  by  Levites.  Sentence 
of  guilt  must  be  by  a  majorify  of  two.  If  all  persons  of  a  Sanhedrin  are 
accusing,  the  defendant  becomes  free.  How  so  ?  In  a  city  in  which  the 
following  ten  things  do  not  exist  it  is  not  advisable  for  a  scholar  to  reside, 
and  they  are,  etc.  Of  rulers  of  thousands  were  six  hundred  ;  of  hundreds, 
six  thousand  ;  of  fifties,  twelve  thousand  ;  of  tens,  sixty  thousand — hence  the 
total  number  of  the  officers  in  Israel  was  seventy-eight  thousand  and  six 
hundred, 1-42 

CHAPTER   II. 

MiSHNAS  /  AND  //.  The  high-priest  may  judge  and  be  a  witness ;  be 
ludged  and  witnessed  against.  A  king  must  not  judge,  and  is  not  judged  ; 
must  not  be  a  witness,  nor  witnessed  against.  There  are  cases  from  which 
one  may  withdraw  himself,  and  there  are  others  from  which  he  may  not. 
How  so  ?  A  king  must  not  be  a  member  of  the  Sanhedrin  ;  nor  he  and  a 
high-priest  engage  in  discussion  about  a  leap  year.  The  legends  of  three 
pasturers  who  had  a  discussion  about  the  month  Adar,  which  the  rabbis  took 
as  a  support  to  establish  a  leap  year.  When  he  (high-priest)  goes  in  the  row 
to  condole  with  others,  his  vice  and  the  ex-high-priest  are  placed  at  his  riglit, 
etc.  Formerly  the  custom  was  for  the  mourners  to  stand,  and  the  people  to 
pass  by,  etc.  A  row  is  not  less  than  ten  persons,  not  counting  the  mourners. 
All  agree  that  if  a  king  has  relinquished  his  honor,  it  is  not  relinquished. 
How  could  David  marry  two  sisters  while  they  were  both  living  ?  The 
strength  of  Joseph  was  moderation  on  the  part  of  Boas,  and  the  strength  of 
the  latter  was  moderation  on  the  part  of  Palti,  etc.,  etc.  If  a  death  occurs  in 
the  house  of  the  king,  he  must  not  leave  the  gate  of  the  palace,      .        43-52 

MiSHNAS  ///.  TO  VI.  Three  positive  commandments  was  Israel  com- 
manded when  they  entered  Palestine,  viz.,  they  should  appoint  a  king,  etc. 
The  treasures  of  kings  which  are  plundered  in  time  of  war  belong  to  the  king 
only.     He  (the  king)  must  not  marry  more  than  eighteen  wives.     Even  one 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  xlii 

wife,  should  she  be  liable  to  turn  his  heart  away,  he  must  not  marry  her. 
The  numbereighteen  mentioned  in  the  Mishna — whence  is  it  deduced  ?  Four 
hundred  children  were  born  to  David  by  the  handsome  women  whom  he  took 
captive  {i.e.,  those  mentioned  in  Deut.  xxi.  li).  Only  a  son  may  stay  alone 
with  his  mother,  but  it  is  not  allowed  for  any  one  besides  to  stay  alone  with 
a  married  woman.  He  (the  king)  must  not  acquire  many  horses,  neither 
more  gold  and  silver  than  to  pay  the  military.  He  shall  not  acquire  many 
horses,  and  lest  one  say,  "  Even  those  which  are  needed  for  his  chariots,"  etc. 
He  shall  not  acquire  much  gold  and  silver — lest  one  say,  "  Not  even  suffi- 
cient for  paying  the  military,"  etc.  Why  does  not  the  Scripture  explain  the 
reason  of  its  law  ?  Because  in  two  verses  it  was  so  done,  and  the  greatest 
men  of  a  generation  stumbled  because  of  them,  etc.  Ezra  was  wrothy  that 
the  Torah  should  be  given  through  him,  if  Moses  had  not  preceded  him.  In 
the  very  beginning  the  Torah  was  given  to  Israel  in  Assyrian  characters,  etc. 
(see  footnote,  p.  59).  One  must  not  ride  on  his — the  king's — horse,  etc. 
Come  and  see  how  hard  is  divorce  in  the  eyes  of  the  sages  !  He  who  divorces 
his  first  wife,  even  the  altar  sheds  tears  on  account  of  him.  The  king  must 
cut  his  hair  every  day,  a  high-priest  every  eve  of  Sabbath,  and  a  commoner 
priest  every  thirty  days, 52-63 

CHAPTER   III. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  ///.  Civil  cases  by  three  :  one  party  may  select  one,  and 
so  the  other,  and  both  one  more.  Pure-minded  people  of  Jerusalem  used  not 
to  sign  a  document  unless  they  were  aware  who  was  the  other  who  was  to 
sign  it,  and  also  would  not  sit  down  to  judge  unless  they  were  aware  who 
was  to  be  their  colleague,  etc.  One  has  no  right  to  reject  a  judge  who  was 
appointed  by  the  majority.  There  is  a  rule  that  the  testimony  of  one  who  is 
interested  in  a  case  is  not  to  be  taken  into  consideration.  Proof  is  needed  to 
each  claim,  even  if  it  is  not  so  important  that  it  could  injure  the  case.  He 
who  saw  Resh  Lakish  in  the  college  saw  one  uprooting  hills  and  crushing 
them,  and  he  who  saw  R.  Mair  saw  one  uprooting  mountains  and  crushing 
them.  Gamblers  (habitual  dice-players)  and  usurers,  and  those  who  play 
with  flying  doves,  are  disqualified  to  be  witnesses.  What  crime  is  there  in 
dice-playing  ?  Because  they  do  not  occupy  themselves  with  the  welfare  of 
the  world.  One  who  borrows  to  pay  usurers  is  also  disqualified.  Gamblers 
are  counted  those  who  play  with  dice  ;  and  not  only  with  dice,  but  even  with 
the  shells  of  nuts  or  pomegranates.  Among  those  who  play  with  doves — other 
animals  are  also  meant.  There  was  added  to  the  disqualified  witnesses 
robbers  and  forcers  {i.e.,  those  who  take  things  by  force,  although  they  pay 
the  value  for  them).  There  was  secondly  added  to  that  category,  collectors 
of  duty  and  contractors  of  the  government.  The  father  of  R.  Zera  was  a 
collector  for  thirteen  years,  etc.  One's  thought  for  his  maintenance  injures 
him  in  his  study  of  the  law,  etc.  They  who  accept  charity  from  idolaters 
are  disqualified  to  be  witnesses,  provided  they  do  so  publicly,  etc.  One  who 
is  wicked  in  money  matters  only  is  disqualified  to  witness,  but  not  one  wicked 
in  heavenly  matters.  Bar  Hama  had  slain  a  man,  and  the  Exilarch  told 
Aba  b.  Jacob  to  investigate  the  case  ;  and  if  he  really  slew  the  man  thev 
should  make  the  murderers  blind,  etc., 64-79 


xiv  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

MiSHNAS  IV.  TO  VI.  The  following  are  counted  relatives  who  may  not  be 
witnesses :  Brothers,  brothers  of  father  or  mother,  brothers-in-law,  etc, 
"  My  father's  brother  shall  not  witness  in  my  cases;  he,  his  son,  and  his  son-iiv- 
law."  "  The  brother  of  my  mother-in-law  cannot  be  a  witness  for  me."  The 
husband  of  one's  sister,  also  the  husband  of  the  sister  of  one's  father  and  the 
husband  of  the  sister  of  one's  mother,  their  sons  and  their  sons-in-law,  are 
also  excluded  from  being  witnesses.  A  stepfather  .  .  .  his  son-in-law,  etc. 
There  was  a  deed  of  gift  which  was  signed  by  two  brothers-in-law — i.e.,  two 
husbands  of  two  sisters,  etc.  How  were  the  witnesses  examined  ?  They 
were  brought  into  separate  chambers,  etc.  How  were  the  witnesses 
frightened  ?  There  was  one  who  had  hidden  witnesses  under  the  curtains  of 
liis  bed,  and  he  said  to  his  debtor  :  "  Have  I  a  mana  with  you  ?  "  etc.  There 
was  one  who  was  named  by  the  people  "the  man  who  has  against  him  a 
whole  kab  of  promissory  notes."  There  was  another  who  was  named 
"the  mouse  who  lies  on  dinars,"  etc.  There  was  a  document  of  confession 
in  which  it  was  not  written:  "He  (the  debtor)  has  said  to  us,  'Write  a 
document,  sign,  and  give  it  him'  (the  creditor),"  etc.  "  I  have  seen  your  de- 
ceased father  hide  money  in  a  certain  place,  saying,  'This  belongs  to  so-and- 
so,'"  etc.  How  is  the  judgment  to  be  written  ?  So  was  the  custom  of  the 
pure-minded  in  Jerusalem.  They  let  parties  enter,  listened  to  their  claims, 
and  thereafter  let  the  witnesses  enter,  listened  to  their  testimony,  then  told  all 
of  them  to  go  out,  etc.  This  is  a  rule  for  every  case  in  which  is  mentioned 
"a  witness,"  that  it  means  two.  Simeon  b.  Alyaqim  was  anxious  that  the 
degree  of  Rabbi  should  be  granted  to  Jose  b.  Hanina,  etc.,  etc.  A  con- 
fession after  a  confession,  or  a  confession  after  a  loan,  may  be  conjoined  ; 
but  a  loan  after  a  loan,  or  a  loan  after  a  confession,  do  not  join  (p.  91). 
Witnesses  in  civil  cases  who  contradict  one  another  in  unimportant  investi- 
gations are  to  be  considered.  So  long  as  the  defendant  brings  evidence  to 
his  advantage,  the  decision  may  be  nullified  by  the  court.  However,  if  after 
he  had  said,  "I  have  no  witnesses,"  etc.  What  happened  to  R.  Na'hman 
with  a  young  man  whom  he  made  liable.  If  one  who  is  summoning  a  party 
who  says,  "I  want  my  case  brought  before  the  assembly  of  sages," etc.,  he 
maybe  compelled  to  try  his  case  in  that  city.  In  Babylon  they  are  not  allowed 
to  try  cases  of  fine, 79-96 

CHAPTER  IV. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  III.  Cases  coming  before  the  court,  the  witnesses  thereof 
must  be  examined  and  investigated.  What  difference  is  there  between  civil 
and  criminal?  The  following  from  (a)  to  (g).  Biblically  there  is  no  differ- 
ence between  civil  and  criminal  cases  concerning  investigations.  But  why 
is  it  enacted  that  civil  cases  do  not  need  investigation  ?  "Justice,  only  jus- 
tice, shalt  thou  pursue,"  means  that  one  shall  follow  to  the  city  of  a  cele- 
brated judge,  etc.  What  has  the  court  first  to  say  to  the  advantage  of  the 
defense  in  criminal  cases?  If  one  has  tried  a  case,  and  made  liable  him 
who  is  not,  or  vice  versa,  etc.  Tudus  the  physician  testified  that  not  one 
cow  or  one  swine  was  sent  from  Alexandria  in  Egypt  of  which  the  womb 
was  not  removed.  If  one  was  found  guilty  by  the  court,  and  thereafter  one 
come,  saying  ;  I  know  a  defense  for  him,  etc.     So  long  as  the  fire  in  the 


SYNOPSIS    OF   SUBJECTS.  xv 

stove  burns,  cut  off  all  that  you  want  to  roast,  and  roast  it,  {I.e.,  when  you 
are  studying  a  thing,  consider  it  thoroughly  to  prevent  questions.)  All  who 
take  part  in  the  discussion  may  explain  their  reasons,  until  one  of  the  accus- 
ers shall  yield  to  one  of  the  defenders.  In  the  neighborhood  of  R.  Johanan 
there  was  one  who  was  blind  who  used  to  judge  cases,  etc.  From  the  time 
of  Moses  until  the  time  of  Rabbi,  we  do  not  find  one  man  who  was  unique  in 
the  possession  of  wisdom,  riches,  and  glory,  etc.  One  may  teach  his  disciple, 
and  at  the  same  time  may  judge  in  association  with  him  in  criminal  cases. 
In  ten  things  civil  cases  differ  from  criminal  cases.  All  are  competent  to 
judge  civil  cases.  But  not  all  of  them  are  competent  to  judge  criminal  cases. 
The  Sanhedrin  sat  in  a  half-circle  in  order  that  they  could  see  each  other, 
etc.  The  Torah  has  testified  that  we  are  such  a  kind  of  people  that  even  a 
fence  of  lilies  is  sufficient  for  us,  and  will  never  be  broken.  How  were  the 
witnesses  awestruck  in  criminal  cases  ?  A  human  being  stamps  many  coins 
with  one  stamp,  and  all  of  them  are  alike  ;  but  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He, 
has  stamped  every  man  with  the  stamp  of  Adam  the  first,  and,  nevertheless, 
not  one  of  them  is  like  the  other.  Although  the  court  of  the  Sanhedrin  ex- 
isted no  longer,  the  punishment  of  the  four  kinds  of  death  prescribed  in  the 
Scripture  was  not  abolished  by  Heaven.  Adam  the  first  was  created  singly, 
and  why  ?  That  disbelievers  should  not  say  there  were  many  Creators  in 
heaven,  etc.  In  three  things  one  is  different  from  his  neighbor — in  voice, 
etc., 97-114 

CHAPTER  V. 

MiSHNA  /.  The  court  used  to  examine  the  witnesses  with  seven  inquiries, 
etc.  Should  one  of  the  witnesses  say,  "I  have  something  to  say  in  behall 
of  the  defendant,"  or  one  of  the  disciples,  "  I  have  something  to  say  to  the  dis- 
advantage of  the  defendant,"  the  court  silences  him.  Why  not  say  that 
eight  queries  are  necessary  in  the  examination  ?  Viz.,  how  many  minutes 
are  there  in  the  hour  ?  Do  you  recognize  this  man  as  the  murderer  of  him 
who  was  slain  ?  Was  he  a  heathen  or  an  Israelite  ?  Have  you  warned 
him  ?  Did  he  accept  the  warning  ?  etc.  Whence  do  we  deduce  that  the 
warning  is  prescribed  biblically  ?  Witnesses  who  testified  in  case  of  a  be- 
trothed woman,  if  they  be  found  collusive,  are  not  to  be  put  to  death.  What 
is  the  difference  between  examination  ?  etc.  Until  what  time  may  the  bene- 
diction of  the  moon  be  pronounced  ?  If  Israel  should  have  only  the  merito- 
rious act  of  receiving  the  glory  of  their  heavenly  Father  once  a  month,  it 
would  be  sufficient.  They  do  not  drink  wine.  And  why  not  ?  In  civil 
cases  the  court  may  say  :  The  case  becomes  old,  etc.,         .        .         115-125 

CHAPTER   VI. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  IV.  If  the  conclusion  was  to  condemn,  the  guilty  one  was 
taken  out  immediately  to  be  stoned.  A  herald  goes  before  him,  heralding: 
So  and  so,  etc.  One  stands  with  a  flag.  I  doubt  who  had  to  bear  the  cost 
of  the  flag  and  horse  mentioned  in  the  Mishna,  etc.  If  one  of  the  disciples 
said,  "  I  have  something  to  say  in  behalf  of  the  defendant,"  and  thereafter  he 
became  dumb  ?     He  who  is  modest,  the  verse  considers  him  as  if  he  should 


4V1  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

sacrifice  all  the  sacrifices  mentioned  in  the  Scripture.  When  he  (the  guilty) 
was  far  from  the  place  of  execution — a  distance  of  ten  ells — he  was  told  to 
confess.  Why  are  the  words  "  unto  us  and  to  our  children,"  and  the  Ayin 
of  the  "ad  "  pointed  ?  The  Lord  said  to  Joshua  :  Thou  thyself  hast  caused 
all  the  evils,  because  thou  didst  excommunicate  the  goods  of  Jericho.  One 
should  always  proceed  with  prayer  before  trouble  comes.  It  happened  with 
one  who  was  going  to  be  executed,  that  he  said  :  If  I  am  guilty  of  this  crime, 
my  death  shall  not  atone  for  all  my  sins.  See  footnote,  p.  135,  concerning 
the  legend  of  Simeon  b.  S.  of  the  eighty  witches  hung  by  him.  A  male  was 
stoned  while  naked,  but  not  a  female.  The  stoning  place  was  two  heights 
of  a  man,  etc.  If  before  the  execution  the  hands  of  the  witnesses  were  cut 
off,  he  becomes  free  from  death.  "  The  avenger  of  the  blood  himself  shall 
slay."     Infer  from  this  that  it  is  a  meritorious  act  for  the  avenger  to  do  so 

himself, 126-139 

MiSHNAS  K  AND  V/.  All  who  are  Stoned  are  also  hanged.  A  male,  but  not 
a  female.  Two  must  not  be  judged  on  the  same  day,  provided  there  are  two 
kinds  of  death.  How  was  one  hanged  .''  The  beam  was  put  in  the  earth, 
etc.  King  Sabur  questioned  R.  Hama :  Whence  do  you  deduce  from  the 
Torah  that  one  must  be  buried  ?  etc.  Is  the  burying  because  the  corpse 
shall  become  disgraced  if  not  buried,  or  is  it  because  of  atonement  .-*  Is  the 
lamentation  an  honor  for  the  living  or  for  the  deceased  ?  And  what  is  the 
difference?  etc.  A  wicked  person  must  not  be  buried  with  an  upright  one. 
All  the  curses  with  which  David  cursed  Joab  fell  on  the  descendants  of 
David.  They  were  [II  Sam.  iii.  29J,  etc.  If  not  for  Joab,  David  would  not 
have  been  able  to  occupy  himself  with  the  law,  etc.,     .        .        .         139-148 

CHAPTER   VII. 

MiSHNAS  7.  TO  V.  Four  kinds  of  capital  punishment  are  prescribed  to  the 
court  by  the  Scriptures.  According  to  R.  Simeon,  burning  is  more  rigorous 
than  stoning.  With  her  father,  burning  applies  ;  with  her  father-in-law, 
stoning  applies.  How  is  this  to  be  understood  ?  Do  you  come  to  teach  a 
Halakha  which  will  be  used  only  then  when  the  Messiah  will  appear  ?  The 
prescribed  punishment  of  burning  was  this  :  The  sinner  was  placed  in  waste 
knee-deep.  Then  placing  a  twisted  scarf  of  coarse  material  within  a  soft 
one,  etc.  But  why  should  burning  not  be  inferred  from  the  offerings  of  the 
bullocks,  which  were  burned  bodily  ?  Nadob  said  to  Abihu  :  When  will 
the  two  old  men  die,  and  you  and  I  be  leaders  of  Israel  ?  The  prescribed 
punishment  of  slaying  was  thus  :  He  was  decapitated,  etc.  The  prescribed 
punishment  of  choking  was  thus  :  Tiie  sinner  was  placed  in  waste  knee-deep, 
etc.  To  the  following  sinners  stoning  applies  :  viz.,  one  who  had  connec- 
tion with  his  mother,  etc.  "  A  man"  means  to  exclude  a  minor.  [Lev.  xxii.] : 
"  That  lieth  with  his  father's  wife  "  means,  that  there  is  no  difference  whether 
she  is  his  mother  or  not, 150-164 

MiSHNAS  VI.  TO  V/I.  One  who  had  connection  with  a  human  male,  or 
with  an  animal,  and  also  a  human  female  who  uncovers  herself  before  a  male 
animal,  are  punished  with  stoning.  "  With  an  animaJ  "  makes  no  difference 
whether  it  was  a  large  or  a  small  one.  A  blasphemer  is  not  guilty,  unless 
he  mentioned  the  proper  name  of  God  (Jehovah).     "  Any  man  whatsoever," 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  xvii 

etc.,  meaning  to  include  the  heathen,  who  are  warned  of  blasphemy.  Ten 
commandments  were  commanded  to  Israel  in  Marah  ;  seven  of  them  are 
those  which  were  accepted  by  the  descendants  of  Noah.  For  transgression 
of  these  commandments  a  descendant  of  Noah  is  put  to  death,  viz.,  adultery, 
bloodshed,  and  blasphemy.  A  descendant  of  Noah  may  be  put  to  death  by 
the  decision  of  one  judge,  by  the  testimony  of  one  witness,  etc.  Every  rela- 
tionship for  which  the  punishment  of  the  courts  of  Israel  is  death,  a  descend- 
ant of  Noah  is  warned  of  it;  but  all  other  relationships,  the  punishment  of 
which  is  not  death,  are  permissible  to  them.  He  who  raises  his  hand  to 
his  neighbor,  although  he  has  not  as  yet  struck  him,  is  called  wicked.  "  Flesh 
in  which  its  life  is,  which  is  its  blood,  shall  ye  not  eat,"  [Gen.  ix.  4]  means 
any  member  of  the  animal,  while  it  is  still  alive.  We  do  not  find  any  case 
where  what  is  forbidden  to  the  descendants  of  Noah  should  be  allowed  to  the 
Israelites.  An  unclean  thing  never  came  from  heaven.  There  is  no  differ- 
ence if  one  hears  it  from  the  blasphemer  himself  or  from  the  witness  who 
heard  it  from  the  blasphemer — he  must  rend  his  garments    .         .     164-187 

MiSHNAS  VIII.  TO  XII.  One  is  considered  an  idolater  who  worships  it 
with  its  proper  worship;  and  even  if  he  only  sacrifices,  smokes  incense,  or 
pours  wine,  etc.  Why  not  say  that  from  bowing  "  all  kinds  of  worshipping" 
is  to  be  inferred  .?  In  our  Mishna  itsis  stated  :  '^  He  who  worships  idols." 
Tliere  is  another  Mishna,  farther  on,  which  states  :  He  who  says:  "I  will 
worship,"  is  always  considered  an  idolater,  etc.  If  one  worship  an  idol 
because  he  loves  it,  or  because  he  fears  it,  etc.  Concerning  Sabbath  it  is 
more  rigorous  than  all  the  other  commandments  in  one  respect,  and  all  other 
commandments  are  more  rigorous  in  another  respect,  etc.  There  is  a  tradi- 
tion :  He  who  conjoins  the  name  of  Heaven  with  something  else  is  1,0  be 
destroyed.  It  happened  to  a  female  heathen  who  was  very  sick  and  vowtd 
that  if  she  recovered  she  would  worship  all  the  idols  which  were  to  be  found, 
etc.  If  one  gives  one  of  his  children  to  Molech,  he  is  not  guilty  unless  he 
has  transferred  him  to  the  servants,  etc.  One  is  not  guilty  unless  he  let  him 
pass  in  the  usual  manner.  What  was  that  ?  A  row  of  bricks  were  placed  for 
passing,  etc.  Baal  ob  (mentioned  in  the  Scripture)  is  the  python  that  makes 
the  dead  speak  from  his  armpit,  and  Yidofii  means  one  that  makes  the  dead 
speak  from  his  mouth.  Is  not  he  who  queries  an  "  ob  "  the  same  who  inquires 
of  the  dead  ?  Nay  !  etc.  An  observer  of  times  is,  according  to  R.  Aqiba, 
he  who  reckons  times  and  hours,  saying:  This  day  is  good  to  go  on  the  road, 
etc.  He  who  curses  his  father  or  mother  is  not  punished  with  a  capital 
punishment,  unless  he  curse  them  by  the  proper  name  of  God,         .    187-194 

MiSHNAS  XIII.  TO  XIV.  He  who  sins  with  a  betrothed  damsel  is  not 
guilty  to  be  stoned,  unless  she  was  a  maiden  betrothed  and  still  in  her 
father's  house.  A  seducer  means  one  who  is  himself  a  commoner — e.g.,  he 
says  :  There  is  an  idol  in  such  and  such  a  place  which  so  and  so  eats,  etc. 
Concerning  all  who  are  liable  to  capital  punishment  biblically,  it  is  not 
allowed  to  hide  witnesses  except  in  this  case,  etc.  A  conjurer  is  liable  to  be 
stoned  only  when  he  did  an  act,  but  not  if  he  dazzled  the  eyes.  The  Halakhas 
of  witchcraft  are  similar  to  the  Halakhas  of  Sabbath.  There  are  some  to 
which  stoning  applies,  etc.  I  have  seen  a  rider  of  a  camel  who  took  his 
sword,  cut  off  the  head  of  the  camel,  and  thereafter  rung  a  bell,  and  the  camel 
stood  up.    It  was  only  a  dazzling  of  the  eyes.    The  legend  of  R.  Eliezer  with 


xviii  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

his  disciple,  "Thou  shalt  not  learn  to  do,"  means  :  "Thou  must  not  learn 
to  do,  but  thou  mayest  learn  it  to  understand  it  for  the  purposes  of  deciding 
cases, 194-300 

CHAPTER  VIII. 

MisHNAS  /.  TO  VIII.  A  stubborn  and  rebellious  son — at  what  age  may  he 
be  considered  as  such?  From  the  time  he  brings  forth  two  hairs,  etc.;  but 
the  sages  used  to  speak  with  delicacy.  A  minor  of  nine  years  and  one  day  is 
fit  to  have  connection  with  a  woman,  and  in  a  case  of  adultery  it  is  considered. 
Whence  do  we  know  that  the  first  generation  produced  children  at  the  age  of 
eight?  A  daughter  should  be  more  open  to  the  charges  of  stubbornness  and 
rebelliousness,  etc.  But  so  is  the  decree  of  the  Scripture — "  a  son,  and  not  a 
daughter."  He  cannot  be  condemned  as  a  stubborn  and  rebellious  son 
unless  he  eats  meat  and  drinks  wine.  You  shall  not  look  for  wine  which 
makes  red  the  faces  of  the  wicked  in  this  world,  and  makes  them  pale  in  the 
world  to  come.  Thirteen  ways  are  enumerated  in  the  Scripture  concerning 
wine,  as  in  Genesis  ix.,  from  20  to  25.  If  he  has  stolen  from  his  father  and 
consumed  on  his  premises,  etc.,  he  is  not  charged  as  a  stubborn  and  rebel- 
lious son  unless  he  stole  from  his  mother  and  father.  If  the  father  is  willing 
to  transfer  the  case  of  the  son  in  question  to  the  court,  and  the  mother  is  not 
willing,  or  vice  versa,  etc.  Such  a  thing  neither  occurred  nor  ever  will  be, 
and  the  same  is  with  the  case  of  a  misled  town,  and  also  with  a  house  of  lep- 
rosy, and  was  written  only  for  study.  If  one  hand  of  his  father  or  mother  is 
missing,  or  they  limp,  or  are  dumb,  etc.  If  he  runs  away  before  the  decision 
of  condemnation  is  rendered,  etc.  The  Scripture  prefers  that  he  should  die 
innocent,  and  not  be  put  to  death  because  of  his  sins.  For  the  death  of  the 
vricked  is  both  a  benefit  to  them  and  a  benefit  to  the  world,  etc.  In  the  case 
of  "breaking  in  "  [Ex.  xii.,  i],  for  which  there  is  no  liability  if  one  is  killed 
by  a  detector,  one  is  also  punished  because  of  his  future  crimes,  etc.  A 
burglar  who  broke  in  and  succeeded  in  taking  some  utensils  and  escaped  is 
free  from  paying.  Because  he  acquired  title  to  them  by  his  blood.  It 
happened  that  rams  were  stolen  from  Rabha  by  burglary  and  thereafter  they 
were  returned  to  him;  he  would  not  accept  them  because  the  above  decision 
came  from  the  mouth  of  Rabh,  etc., 201-216 

MiSHNA  IX.  The  following  may  be  killed  for  self-protection  :  He  who 
pursues  one  to  kill  him,  and  he  who  pursueth  a  betrothed  damsel,  etc 
According  to  the  rabbis  the  Scripture  cares  for  the  violation  of  her  honor, 
and  as  she  also  cares  for  it,  though  without  life-sacrifice,  she  must  be  saved 
even  by  killing  her  pursuers,  etc.  One  who  intends  to  v^orship  idols  may  be 
killed  (if  there  is  an  impossibility  of  preventing  his  crime  otherwise.)  "  In 
the  city  of  Luda  it  was  voted  and  resolved  that  if  one  were  compelled,  under 
threat  of  being  killed,  to  commit  any  one  of  all  the  crimes  which  are  men- 
tioned in  the  Torah,  he  might  commit  it  and  not  be  killed,  except  idolatry, 
adultery,  and  bloodshed.  Is  a  descendant  of  Noah  commanded  to  sanctify 
the  Holy  Name,  or  not?  It  happened  to  one  that  he  saw  a  woman  and 
became  sick  through  his  infatuation,  etc., 216-221 

CHAPTER  IX. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  VI.  Punishment  of  burning  applies  to  one  man  who  has 
intercourse  with  a  woman  and  her  daughter,  and  to  a  daughter  of  a  priest, 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  xix 

etc.  Punishment  with  the  sword  appHes  to  a  murderer  and  to  the  men  of  a 
misled  town.  If  one  pressed  down  a  person  while  he  is  in  water,  or  in  fire, 
preventing  him  from  coming  out,  he  is  guilty,  etc.  If  one  bound  a  person, 
and  he  died  thereafter  of  hunger,  he  is  not  guilty  of  a  capital  crime.  If,  how- 
ever, he  put  him  in  a  sunny  place,  and  he  died  because  of  the  sun,  he  is  guilty. 
Ball-players — if  one  threw  a  ball  with  the  intention  of  killing  some  one,  he  is 
to  be  put  to  death,  and  if  it  was  unintentional,  he  is  to  be  exiled,  etc.  All 
agree  that  if  one  kills  a  person  whose  windpipe  and  larynx  (gullet)  are  cut 
or  whose  skull  is  fractured,  he  is  free  (for  it  is  considered  as  if  he  attacked  a 
dead  man).  If  one  strikes  a  person  with  a  stone  or  with  his  fists,  and  he  was 
diagnosed  (by  the  physicians  of  the  court)  to  die,  and  thereafter  he  improved, 
etc.  Capital  punishment  does  not  apply  to  one  who  intended  to  kill  an 
animal  and  killed  a  man,  an  idolater  and  killed  an  Israelite,  etc.;  but  it  does 
apply  to  one  who  intended  to  strike  a  person  on  the  loins  with  an  article 
which  was  sufficient  for  this  purpose,  and  he  strikes  him  to  death  on  his 
heart,  etc.  A  murderer  mixed  up  among  others — all  of  them  are  free,  etc. 
If  it  happen  that  the  persons  sentenced  to  deaths  of  dififerent  kinds,  and  are 
so  mixed  that  it  is  not  known  who  comes  under  this  kind  of  death  and  who 
under  another,  all  of  them  must  be  executed  with  the  more  lenient  death. 
If  one  committed  a  crime  which  deserves  two  kinds  of  death,  he  must  be 
tried  for  the  more  rigorous  one.  Ezek.  xviii.  must  not  be  taken  literally,  but 
"  the  mountains  he  eateth  not "  means  that  he  does  not  live  upon  the 
reward  of  the  meritorious  acts  done  by  his  parents;  "his  eyes  he  lifteth  not 
up  to  the  idols  "  means  that  he  never  walked  overbearingly,  etc.,  .  222-238 
MiSHNAS  VII.  TO  IX.  He  who  receives  stripes,  and  relaxes  into  the  same 
crime,  the  court  takes  him  to  the  kyphos.  He  who  kills  a  person  not  in  the 
presence  of  witnesses  is  taken  to  the  kyphos  and  is  fed  on  scant  bread  and 
water.  If  one  steals  a  kisvah,  or  one  curses  his  neighbor,  invoking  God  as  a 
"  carver,"  zealous  people  (like  Pinchas)  have  a  right  to  strike  him  when 
caught  in  the  act.  What  is  this  punishment  if  there  were  no  zealous  men  ? 
Answer  to  this,  it  happened  that  it  was  read  before  R.  Kahan  in  a  dream, 
etc.  In  a  case  where  there  is  a  violation  of  the  Holy  Name  the  honor  of  the 
master  must  not  be  considered.  "  If  a  priest  performs  the  service  while  he 
is  defiled,"  etc.    "  If  a  common  Israelite  served  in  the  Temple,"  etc.,  238-244 

CHAPTER  X. 

MiSHNAS  I.  TO  VI.  Choking  applies  to  him  who  strikes  his  father  or 
mother,  to  him  who  steals  a  living  soul,  etc.  A  son  is  not  guilty  of  a 
capital  crime  unless  he  wounds  his  father  by  striking  him.  Cursing  is  in  one 
respect  more  rigorous  than  striking,  as  he  is  guilty  even  if  he  did  it  after  his 
father's  death.  If  one  steals  a  person,  he  is  not  guilty  of  a  capital  crime 
unless  he  brings  him  upon  his  own  premises.  There  is  no  difference 
whether  he  stole  a  male  or  a  female,  a  proselyte,  or  a  bondsman,  or  a  minor, 
etc.  R.  Jehudah  says  that  there  is  no  disgrace  for  slaves.  "  Thou  shalt  not 
steal,"  in  the  third  commandment,  means  human  beings.  [Lev.  xix.,  ii]  : 
"  Ye  shalt  not  steal,"  meaning  money.  A  judge  rebelling  against  the  Greet 
Sanhedrin.  There  were  in  Jerusalem  three  courts,  etc.  In  case  a  judge  in 
the  country  had  a  dispute  with,  his  colleagues,  they  came  to  the  first  court. 
If  this  court  were  able  to  decide  it  traditionally  they  rendered  their  decision; 
and  if  not,  all  of  them  came  to  the  Great  Sanhedrin,  which  was  in  the  Temple 


zx 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 


treasury,  etc.  A  disciple  who  is  not  a  judge  who  decides  for  practice  against 
the  Great  Sanhedrin,  is  not  culpable.  A  rebelling  judge  is  not  guilty  unless 
he  gave  his  decision  in  a  matter  to  which,  if  done  intentionally,  korath 
applies,  etc.  The  punishment  of  him  who  transgresses  the  decision  of  the 
scribes  is  more  rigorous  than  for  that  which  is  plainly  written  in  the 
Scriptures.  The  judge  in  question  was  not  put  to  death  by  the  court  of  his 
own  city,  etc.,  but  was  brought  to  the  Supreme  Council,  in  Jerusalem,  etc. 
A  false  prophet  who  is  to  be  sentenced  by  the  court  is  only  he  who  prophe- 
sies what  he  (personally)  has  not  heard  and  what  he  was  not  told  at  all,  etc. 
He  who  prophesied  in  the  name  of  an  idol,  saying,  "  So  and  so  was  said  by 
such  an  idol,"  although  it  corresponds  exactly  with  the  Hebrew  law, 
he  is  punished  by  choking.  See  all  illustrations,  pp.  258-260.  In  every  case 
mentioned  in  the  Torah,  if  a  true  prophet  commands  you  to  transgress,  you 
may  listen,  except  as  to  idolatry, 245-261 

CHAPTER  XI. 

MiSHNA  /.  Al!  Israel  has  a  share  in  the  world  to  come.  The  following 
have  no  share  in  the  world  to  come:  He  who  says,  etc.  Three  kings  and 
four  commoners  have  no  share  in  the  world  to  come,  etc.  Is  he  who  does 
not  believe  that  the  resurrection  is  hinted  at  in  the  Torah  such  a  criminal 
that  he  loses  his  share  in  the  world  to  come?  Where  is  the  resurrection 
hinted  at  in  the  Torah?  etc.  From  the  Pentateuch,  Prophets,  and  Hagi- 
ographa.  See  267,  also  footnote.  Queen  Cleopatra  questioned  R.  Mair  thus: 
When  they  shall  be  restored,  will  they  be  naked  or  dressed?  Cjesar  ques- 
tioned Rabbon  Gamaliel:  You  say  that  the  dead  will  be  restored.  Does  not 
the  corpse  become  dust?  etc.  The  living  die — should  the  dead  come  to  life? 
Tliat  which  has  not  existed  at  all  comes  to  life — shall  those  who  had  life  once 
not  come  to  life  again?  The  legend  of  Gebiah  b.  Pessisa  who  advocated 
Israel  before  Alexander  of  Macedonia,  etc.  (Pp.  268,  270.)  Antoninus  said 
to  Rabbi:  The  body  and  soul  of  a  human  may  free  themselves  on  the  Day 
of  Judgment  by  Heaven.  How  so?  Why  does  the  sun  rise  in  the  east  and 
set  in  the  west?  At  what  time  does  the  soul  come  into  the  body?  At  what 
time  does  the  evil  spirit  reach  man?  Lest  one  say  that  the  verse  just  cited 
means,  I  make  one  die  and  another  one  shall  I  bring  to  life,  therefore  it 
reads,  "  I  wcrnnd  and  I  cure."  As  wounding  and  curing  apply  to  one  person 
only,  etc.  He  who  hesitates  in  declaring  a  Halakha  to  a  disciple,  even  the 
embryos  in  the  entrails  of  their  mothers  denounce  him.  Great  is  wisdom, 
afi  it  was  placed  between  two  divine  names.  Exiles  atone  for  everything. 
The  upright  who  will  be  restored  in  the  future  will  never  return  to  dust. 
"What  will  they  do  at  the  time  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  shall  renew 
His  world  ? "  etc.  Concerning  the  dead  whom  Ezekiel  restored,  the 
different  opinions  of  Tannaim  and  Amoriam,  if  it  was  a  reality  or  a  parable 
only.  (P.  278.)  Six  miracles  occurred  on  the  day  Nebuchadnezzar  threw 
Chananyah,  Mishael,  and  Azaryah  into  the  caldron.  Even  at  the  time  of 
danger  one  shall  not  change  the  dress  belonging  to  his  dignity.  Where  was 
Daniel  at  the  time  that  they  were  thrown  into  the  caldron?  The  legend  of 
Achab  and  Zcdkiyahu  with  the  daughter  of  Nebuchadnezzar.  According  to 
the  advice  of  three,  Daniel  went  away  before  the  afifair  of  Chananyah,  etc. 
Concerning  the  six  barleys  which  Boaz  gave  to  Ruth.  All  that  is  written 
m  the  book  of  Ezra  was  said  by  Nehemiah  b.  Chackhalyah,    Why  then  was 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  xxi 

ft  not  named  after  him?  The  angel  who  rules  the  souls  after  their  departure 
from  this  world  is  named  Dumah.  Hiskiah,  who  has  eight  names,  shall 
take  revenge  on  Sanherib,  who  also  has  eight  names.  Hiskiah's  (king  of 
Judah)  whole  meal  consisted  of  a  litter  of  herbs.  Pharaoh,  who  personally 
blasphemed,  was  also  punished  by  Heaven.  Sanherib,  who  blasphemed 
through  a  messenger,  was  also  punished  through  a  messenger.  Ten  trips 
had  the  wicked  made  on  that  day,  etc.,  as  it  reads  [II  Kings,  x.  28  to  32]. 
There  was  one  day  more  appointed  for  the  punishment  of  the  iniquity  of 
Nob.  And  the  astrologers  told  Sanherib,  etc.  If  the  judgment  is  postponed 
over  one  night  there  is  hope  that  it  will  be  abolished  entirely.  The  legend 
how  Abishai  saved  King  David  from  Yishbi's  hand  at  Nob.  Sanherib,  when 
he  came  to  attack,  brought  with  him  forty-five  thousand  princes  with  their 
concubines  in  golden  carriages,  etc.  See  pages  293-296,  the  many  legends 
concerning  Sanherib.  Be  careful  with  the  children  of  the  Gentiles,  as  it 
happens  very  often  wisdom  emanates  from  them.  That  the  day  on  which 
Achaz  died  consisted  of  only  two  hours.  And  when  Heskiah  became  sick 
and  thereafter  recovered,  the  Holy  One  returned  the  ten  hours  to  that  day, 
etc.  Three  hundred  mules  loaded  with  iron  saws  which  cut  iron  were  given 
to  Nebusaradan  by  Nebuchadnezzar  while  going  to  attack  Jerusalem. 
Nebusaradan  was  a  true  proselyte,  from  the  descendants  of  Sissera  were 
such  who  studied  the  law  in  Jerusalem,  and  from  the  descendants  of  Sanherib 
were  such  who  taught  the  Torah  among  a  majority  of  Israelites,  etc.  Have 
you  heard  when  the  fallen  son  will  come?  etc.  In  his  Sabbatic  period 
when  the  son  of  David  will  appear  in  the  first  year  there  will  be  fulfilled,  etc. 
The  generation  in  which  the  son  of  David  will  come,  young  men  will  make 
pale  the  faces  of  the  old,  etc.  The  world  will  continue  for  six  thousand  years, 
the  first  two  thousand  of  which  was  a  chaos,  etc.  There  are  no  less  than 
thirty-six  upright  in  every  generation  who  receive  the  appearance  of  the 
Shekinah.  All  the  appointed  times  for  the  appearance  of  the  Messiah  have 
already  ceased.  And  it  depends  only  on  repentance  and  good  deeds.  Jeru- 
salem will  not  be  redeemed  but  by  charity.  What  the  Messiah  told  to 
Jehoshua  ben  Levi  :  Ben  David  will  not  arrive  until  Rome  shall  have 
dominated,  etc.  Discussion  concerning  the  name  of  the  Messiah.  The 
cock  said  to  the  bat,  I  look  out  for  the  light  because  the  light  is  mine  (I  see 
it),  but  for  what  purpose  do  you  wait  for  it?  The  days  of  the  Messiah  will 
be  as  from  the  day  of  creation  until  now.  "  He  hath  despised  the  word  of 
God,"  means  he  who  learned  the  Torah  but  does  not  teach  it.  He  who 
learned  the  Torah  and  does  not  repeat  it  is  similar  to  him  who  sows  but  does 
not  harvest,  etc.  Has  not  Moses  written  something  better  than  :  And 
Lotan's  sister  was  Thimna,  etc.  ?  Who  is  meant  by  the  term  epicurian  ? 
What  good  have  the  rabbis  done  for  us?  They  have  never  permitted  us  to 
eat  a  crow,  and  they  have  not  prohibited  us  to  eat  a  dove,  etc.  The  measure 
with  which  man  measures  will  be  measured  out  to  him — i.e.,  as  a  man  deals 
he  will  be  dealt  with.  A  good  woman  is  a  good  gift;  she  may  be  given  to  one 
who  fears  God.  A  bad  woman  is  leprosy  to  her  husband,  etc.  One  may 
ask  the  fortune  tellers  who  tell  fortunes  by  certain  oils  or  eggs.  But  it  is  not 
advisable  to  do  so,  because  they  often  lie.  Support  me,  and  I  will  bear  the 
statement  of  Aqiba,  my  disciple,  who  says  :  "  Pleased  are  chastisements," 
etc.  Three  men  (biblical  personages)  came  with  indirectness,  etc.  What 
means,  "and  he  lifted  up  his  hands"?  He  took  oft  his  phylacteries  in 
his  presence.     (See  footnote,  page  323.)     The  legends  concerning  Jeroboam, 


xxii  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

pp.  322-325.  King  Alenashe  appears  to  R.  Ashi  in  a  dream.  R.  Abuhu 
used  to  lecture  about  the  three  kings  and  became  sick,  etc.  Why  was  Achab 
rewarded  by  the  prolongation  of  his  kingdom  for  twenty-two  years? 
Because  he  was  liberal  with  his  money  and  assisted  many  scholars  from  his 
estate;  half  his  sins  were  atoned.  Four  sects  will  not  receive  the  glory  of  the 
Shekhina,  viz.,  scorners,  liars,  hypocrites,  and  slanderers.  Achaz  abolished 
the  worship  and  sealed  the  Torah,  etc.  The  angels  wanted  to  put  Michah 
aside,  but  the  Lord,  however,  said  leave  him  alone  because  his  house  is  open 
for  travellers.  Great  are  entertainments,  for  its  refusal  estranged  two  tribes 
from  Israel,  etc.  Why  does  not  the  Mishna  count  Achaz  and  Amon  among 
those  who  have  no  share  ?  etc.  Explanation  to  verses  of  Lamentation, 
PP-  334  to  zyj-  The  Scripture  is  particular  that  if  any  one  tells  his  troubles  to 
his  neighbor,  he  should  add  :  "  May  it  not  happen  to  you."  The  interpreters 
of  notes  said  that  all  of  them  have  a  share  in  the  world  to  come,  etc.  "  A 
perpetual  backsliding."  Said  Rabh:  A  victorious  answer  has  the  assembly 
of  Israel  given  to  the  prophets,  etc.  Concerning  Bil'am,  the  elders  of 
Moab.  and  Midian, 265-340 

One  shall  always  occupy  himself  with  the  Torah  and  divine  command- 
ments, even  not  for  the  sake  of  Heaven,  as  finally  He  will  come  to  do  so 
for  His  own  sake,  etc.  The  caution  that  Achiyah,  the  Shilonite,  gave  to 
Israel  is  better  for  them  than  the  blessings  that  Bil'am  has  given  to  them. 
"And  Israel  dwelt  in  Shittim."  Everywhere  such  an  expression  is  to  be 
found  it  brings  infliction,  etc.  I  saw  the  record  of  Bil'am,  and  it  was  writ- 
ten therein  thirty-three  years  was  Bil'am  when  he  was  killed  by  Pinchas, 
the  murderer.  One  shall  not  bring  himself  into  temptation,  as  David,  king 
of  Israel,  placed  himself  in  the  power  of  a  trial  and  stumbled.  Six  months 
was  David  afflicted  with  leprosy;  the  Shekhina  left  him,  and  the  Sanhedrin 
separated  themselves  from  him.  Exclusion  shall  always  be  with  the  left 
hand,  and  inclusion  with  the  right  hand — i.  e.,  if  one  is  compelled  to  repudiate 
some  one,  he  shall  do  it  easy  as  with  his  left  hand,  etc.  Concerning  David's 
sin  with  Bath  Sheba, 340-350 

Mishna  //.  The  generation  of  the  flood  have  no  share  in  the  world  to 
come,  and  are  also  not  judged,  etc.  Concerning  the  generation  of  disper- 
sion, men  of  Sodom  and  Gomorrah,  etc.,  pp.  350-355:  "  Noah  was  just,  a  per- 
fect man  in  his  generation;"  in  his  generation,  but  not  in  others.  According 
to  Rcsh  Lakish:  In  his  generation  which  was  wicked,  so  much  the  more  in 
other  generations.  Eliezar,  the  servant  of  Abraham,  questioned  Shem  the 
great,  etc.  Shem  the  great  questioned  Eliezar,  etc.  "  The  generation  of 
dispersion."  What  had  they  done  ?  What  were  the  crimes  of  the  Sodom- 
ites ?  Concerning  the  congregation  of  Korah.  One  must  do  all  he  can 
not  to  strengthen  a  quarrel,  etc.  "  And  all  .  .  .  on  their  feet,"  means 
the  money  which  makes  one  stand  on  his  feet.  "The  generation  of  the 
desert  has  no  share,"  etc,     Eliezar,  however,  said,  they  have,  etc.,     .     350-362 

MisHNAS  ///.  TO  IV.  The  ten  tribes  who  were  exiled  will  not  be  returned, 
etc.  (pp.  362-363).  From  what  age  has  a  minor  a  share  in  the  world  to  come? 
Your  saying  is  not  satisfactory  to  their  creator.  Say  the  reverse,  even  he 
who  has  studied  but  one  law  does  not  belong  to  the  Gehenna.  It  hap- 
pened once  that  I  was  in  Alexandria  of  Egypt,  and  I  found  a  certain  old 
Gentile  who  said  to  me:  Come,  and  I  will  show  you  what  my  great-grand- 
fathers have  done  to  yours,  etc.  Concerning  Shebna  and  his  society,  ref. 
Isaiah,    viii-12.     Adam    was    created    on    the    eve    of    Sabbath.     And    why? 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  xxm 

The  Minnim  shall  not  say,  etc.  At  the  time  the  Lord  was  about  to  create 
a  man,  He  created  a  catus  of  angels,  etc.  Every  place  where  the  Minnim 
gave  their  wrong  interpretation  the  answer  of  annulling  it  is  to  be  found 
in  the  same  place — e.g.,  p.  370.  The  discussion  with  il.  Gamaliel  and  other 
rabbis,  pp.  372-276.  "  My  creatures  are  sinking  into  the  sea,  and  ye  want 
to  sing?"  It  reads  [Ob.  i.  l]  :  "The  vision  of  the  Lord  .  .  .  con- 
cerning Edom."  Obadiah  was  an  Edomite-proselyte.  And  this  is  what  people 
say  that  the  handle  of  the  hatchet  to  cut  the  forest  is  taken  from  the  wood 
of  the  same  forest.  [Gen.  xxii.  i]  :  "After  these  things."  After  what? 
After  the  words  of  the  Satan,  etc.     According  to  Levi,  "  after  the  exchange 

of  the  words  between  Ishmael  and  Isaac,  etc., 362-378 

MiSHNA  IF.  The  men  of  a  misled  town  have  no  share  in  the  world  to 
come  (the  Halakhas  in  detail,  378-383).  Concerning  the  key  of  rain,  which 
is  one  of  the  three  keys  which  are  not  to  be  transferred  to  a  messenger, 
Elijah,  too,  in  the  days  of  Achab,  etc., 378-385 


SYNOPSIS  OF  SUBJECTS 


OF 


TRACT  MACCOTH  (STRIPES).  • 


CHAPTER   I. 


MiSHNA  /.  TO  X.  How  should  witnesses  be  made  collusive  ?  There  are 
another  sort  of  witnesses  who  are  not  subject  to  the  punishment  of  collusive- 
ness but  who  are  to  suffer  stripes  instead.  Where  do  we  find  a  hint  in  the 
Scripture  that  collusive  witnesses  shall  be  punished  with  stripes  ?  There  are 
four  points  concerning  collusive  witnesses,  etc.  And  they  are  not  sold  as 
Hebrew  slaves.  As  it  reads  :  "  He  shall  be  sold  for  his  theft,  but  not  for 
his  collusiveness."  A  collusive  witness  pays  his  share.  What  does  this 
mean  ?  We  testify  that  so  and  so  has  divorced  his  wife  and  has  not  paid  the 
amount  mentioned  in  her  marriage  contract,  etc.  We  testify  that  so  and  so 
owes  to  his  neighbor  a  thousand  zuz,  etc.  If  one  says  I  will  make  you  a  loan 
with  the  stipulation  that  the  Sabbathic  year  shall  not  release  me,  it  neverthe- 
less releases.  If  one  loans  money  to  his  neighbor  without  a  fixed  term  of 
return,  he  has  no  right  to  demand  it  before  the  elapse  of  thirty  days.  We 
testify  that  so  and  so  owes  200  zuz  to  his  neighbor,  and  they  were  found 
collusive,  etc.  To  a  negative  commandment  that  does  not  contain  manual 
labor,  stripes  does  not  apply.  The  fine  of  money  may  be  divided  into  two 
or  three  shares;  however,  this  is  not  to  be  done  with  stripes.  Witnesses 
cannot  be  made  collusive  unless  the  falsehood  lies  in  their  bodies.  A  woman 
once  brought  witnesses,  and  they  were  found  false.  She  then  brought 
another  party,  who  were  also  found  false  ;  she  then  brought  another  party, 
etc.  Because  she  is  suspicious  should  all  Israel  be  suspected  of  testifying 
falsely  ?  Collusive  witnesses  are  not  to  be  killed  unless  the  sentence  of  capital 
punishment  for  the  defendant  is  rendered.  There  is  no  punishment  on  the 
ground  o^  a  fortiori  conclusions.  May  I  not  live  to  see  the  consolation  of 
our  nation,  if  I  have  not  killed  a  collusive  witness  for  the  purpose  of  remov- 
ing from  the  mind  of -the  saducier,  etc.  The  verse  punishes  one,  an  accom- 
plice who  conjoins  himself  to  transgressors  with  the  same  punishment,  etc. 
And  we  may  learn  from  this  ;  that  so  much  the  more  will  he  who  conjoins 
himself  to  those  who  are  engaged  in  meritorious  acts,  be  rewarded,  etc. 
There  is  no  capital  punishment,  unless  two  witnesses  have  warned  this  cul- 
prit. If  both  of  the  witnesses  have  seen  him  who  warned  them,  they  are  con- 
sidered conjoined.  The  court  of  Sanhedrin  is  to  be  established  in  Palestine 
as  well  as  in  the  countries  outside  of  it.  In  the  large  cities  bu*  not  in  the 
small  ones 1-14 


xh  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

CHAPTER  II. 

MiSHNA  /  TO  V.  The  following  are  exiled,  he  who  kills  a  person  unin- 
tentionally. The  act  of  one  who  thought  that  such  is  allowed  is  not  to  be 
considered  an  accident,  but  almost  intentional.  If  one  has  climbed  a  ladder 
and  the  step  under  him  broke  and  killed,  one  Boraitha  declares  him  guilty, 
etc.  If  the  iron  of  a  hatchet  slipped  off  and  killed.  One  threw  a  lump  of 
brittle  stone  at  a  date  tree,  and  the  dates  fell  off  and  killed  (a  child).  What 
is  considered  second  force  according  to  Rabbi  ?  If  one  throws  a  stone  in 
a  public  ground  and  it  kills,  he  is  to  be  exiled.  The  punishment  of  exile 
attaches  but  to  a  private  set.  Is  hewing  wood  always  considered  a  private 
affair  ?  All  kinds  of  human  beings  are  exiled  when  they  killed  by  accident 
an  Israelite.  A  father  is  exiled  if  he  killed  his  son  accidentally.  A  heathen 
or  a  slave  is  to  be  exiled  or  punished  with  stripes  through  an  Israelite  and 
vice  versa.  A  stranger  or  an  idolator  who  has  killed  even  unintentionally  is 
put  to  death.  Only  then  when,  thinking  that  such  is  allowed  ;  "For  he  is  a 
prophet."  How  is  this  to  be  understood  ?  Because  he  is  a  prophet  she  has 
to  be  returned,  but  if  a  layman,  she  would  not,  etc.  Exile  does  not  apply  to 
a  blind  one.  An  enemy  is  not  exiled  (as  such  a  punishment  does  not  suffice). 
If  the  rope  to  which  the  man's  instrument  was  attached,  broke — then  he  is 
exiled  ;  but  if  the  instrument  slips  out  of  his  hand,  exile  is  not  sufficient. 
Whither  are  they  to  be  exiled  ?  To  the  cities  of  refuge,  etc.  They  were 
also  obliged  to  prepare  roads  from  one  city  to  the  other.  Formerly  all 
murderers,  accidental  as  well  as  intentional,  used  to  flee  to  the  cities  of  refuge, 
etc.  "  Giliad  is  become  a  city  of  workers  of  wickedness,"  etc.  What  does 
this  expression  mean  ?  The  city  of  refuge  must  neither  be  too  large  nor  too 
small,  but  middle-sized  ones.  Be  situated  in  places  where  there  is  water  and 
markets.  If  a  disciple  is  exiled,  his  master  is  exiled  with  him  ;  because  the 
expression,  "and  live,"  means  you  shall  supply  him  with  the  sources  of 
moral  life.  He  who  loves  the  abundance  of  scholars  possesses  the  fruit  of 
knowledge.  I  learned  much  from  my  masters,  more,  however,  from  my  col- 
leagues, and  still  more  from  my  disciples.  The  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He, 
appoints  them  into  one  inn,  and  he  who  had  killed  intentionally  is  placed 
under  a  ladder,  while  the  other,  who  killed  unintentionally,  descends  the 
steps,  falls  and  kills  him.     According  to  one  he  wrote  only  the  eight  verres, 

which  begin  with.     "And  Moses  died,"  etc., 14-28 

MiSHNA  VI.  TO  X.  There  is  no  difference  between  the  high  priests  who 
were  anointed  with  the  holy  oil,  etc.  Therefore  the  mothers  of  the  priests 
used  to  support  the  murderers  with  food  and  clothes,  etc.  It  is  counted  as 
a  sin  to  the  priest  who  should  pray  that  no  accident  might  happen  in  that 
generation.  If  a  sage  has  put  some  one  under  the  ban  conditionally,  etc. 
The  forty  years  during  which  Israel  was  in  the  desert,  the  remains  of  Judah 
were  dismembered  in  his  coffin  until  Moses  prayed  for  him,  etc.  If  after 
the  decision  has  been  rendered,  the  high  priest  dies,  he  is  not  exiled,  etc. 
If  it  happens  that  a  murderer  goes  outside  of  the  limit,  etc.  What  has  the 
high  priest  done  that  the  murderer's  fate  should  depend  upon  his  death  ? 
Joab  erred  twice  in  so  acting:  (a)  he  thought  that  the  horns  of  the  altar 
protect,  etc.  The  cities  of  refuge  are  not  given  for  cemeteries.  If  one 
killed  accidentally  in  the  city  of  refuge,  he  is  to  be  exiled,  etc.    If  a  murderer 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  jtv 

was  exiled,  the  townsmen  like  to  honor  him,  he  has  to  saj'  to  them  •  "  I  am 
a  murderer," 28-34. 

CHAPTER  III. 

MiSHNA  /.  TO  V.  To  the  following  stripes  apply  :  Crimes  under  th» 
category  of  Korath,  as  well  as  under  that  of  capital  punishment,  are  also 
punished  with  stripes  if  they  were  so  warned.  To  a  negative  command, 
which  is  preceded  by  a  positive  one,  stripes  apply.  The  culprit  does  not 
^et  stripes  unless  he  abolishes  the  succeeding  positive  command.  R. 
Simeon  b.  Lakish,  however,  differs,  and  says  :  He  is  free  from  stripes  only 
when  he  has  fulfilled  the  succeeding  one.  He  who  took  the  mother-bird 
with  her  children  gets,  according  to  R.  Jehudah,  stripes.  It  happened  with 
a  children  teacher  who  struck  too  much  the  children,  and  R.  A'ha  excom- 
municated him  ;  Rabbma,  however,  returned  him  because  he  could  not  find 
as  good  a  teacher.  Stripes  also  apply  to  him  who  partook  of  the  first  fruit 
before  the  ceremony  of  reading  was  performed.  If  a  positive  succeeds  a 
negative,  no  stripes  apply.  A  stranger  who  had  consumed  sin  and  trans- 
gression offerings  before  their  blood  was  sprinkled  is  free  from  any  punish- 
ment. Concerning  the  first  fruit,  placing  it  in  the  temple  is  the  main  thing, 
and  not  the  ceremony  of  reading.  The  culpability  for  second  tithe  arises 
only  after  it  has  seen  the  face  of  the  wall  of  Jerusalem.  He  who  makes  a 
baldness  in  the  hair  of  his  head,  or  rounds  it,  etc.,  is  liable.  The  culpability 
arises  only,  then,  when  he  took  it  off  with  a  razor.  What  should  be  the  size 
of  the  bald  spot  which  would  make  him  culpable  ?  If  one  made  an  incision 
with  an  instrument  he  is  culpable.  For  dead  he  is  culpable  at  all  courts 
whether  by  hand  or  instrument.  The  culpability  for  etching-in  arises  only 
when  he  has  done  both,  wrote  and  etched-in  with  dye,  etc.  A  Nazarite  who 
was  drinking  wine  the  whole  day  is  culpable  only  for  one  negative.  There 
is  an  instance  that  one  may  plough  only  one  bed  and  shall  be  culpable  for 
eight  negatives.     The  number  of  stripes  is  forty  less  one,         .         .       34-47. 

MiSHNA  VI.-IX.  The  examination  as  to  the  number  of  stripes  he  can 
receive  and  remain  alive  must  be  such  that  can  be  equally  divided  by  three. 
If  one  commits  a  sin  to  which  two  negatives  apply,  etc.  How  is  the  punish- 
ment with  stripes  to  be  performed  ?  The  striker  strikes  him  with  one  hand 
so  that  the  strokes  shall  become  weaker.  If,  after  he  has  been  tied,  he  suc- 
ceeds to  run  away  from  the  Court,  he  is  free.  As  he  was  already  disgraced, 
he  is  not  taken  to  be  disgraced  again.  The  Lord  wanted  to  make  Israel 
blissful  and  therefore  he  multiplied  to  them  his  commands.  At  three  places 
the  Holy  Spirit  appeared.  At  the  court  of  Shem,  etc.  Six  hundred  and 
thirteen  commands  were  said  to  Moses,  etc.  Isaiah  reduced  them  to  six. 
Michah  came  and  reduced  them  to  three.  Isaiah  (the  second)  again  reduced 
them  to  two.  "Keep  ye  justice  and  do  equity."  Amos  reduced  them  to 
one.     "Seek  ye  for  me,  and  ye  shall  live," 47-56. 

Appendix. 

He  who  speaks  ill  of  his  neighbor,  he  who  listens  to  such  evil-speak- 
ing, finally,  he  who  bears  false  testimony  deserves  to  be  thrown  to  the 
dogs, 47-56. 


SYNOPSIS  OF  SUBJECTS 


or 


TRACT  SHEBUOTH  (OATHS). 


CHAPTER  I. 


MiSHNA  /.  There  are  two  kinds  of  oaths  which  are  subdivided  into  four. 
The  he-goat  makes  it  pending.  How  is  this  to  be  understood?  If  it  does 
not  atone,  what  is  the  use  of  making  it  pending?  It  means,  i.e,  if  the  trans- 
gressor dies  then  it  may  be  considered  that  if  he  dies  before  he  becomes 
aware  of  it,  this  sin  is  not  reckoned  to  him  any  more.  Said  Rabha  to  him: 
"  In  case  he  dies,  the  death  itself  completes  the  atonement;  it  is  the  he-goat 
that  saves  him  from  chastisement  before  he  becomes  aware  by  making  it 
pending.  All  the  above-mentioned  persons  are  atoned  for  by  the  exported 
he-goats  for  all  other  transgressions  without  any  difference,  etc.  Such  is 
the  custom  of  the  divine  attribute  of  justice,  that  the  righteous  atone  for 
the  wicked  and  not  that  the  wicked  atone  for  another  wicked,      .        1-16 


CHAPTER    II. 

MiSHNA  I.  The  cognition  of  uncleanness  is  of  two  kinds  subdivided  into 
four.  The  courtyard  was  sanctified  with  the  remains  of  a  meal-offering 
only,  in  order  to  make  it  equal  to  the  City  of  Jerusalem  itself,  etc.  The 
orchestra  of  the  thanks-offering  consisted  of  violins,  fifes,  trumpets  on  every 
corner  as  well  as  on  every  elevated  stone  in  Jerusalem,  and  used  to  play,  etc. 
It  was  taught,  R.  Huna  says:  "All  the  details  in  the  Mishna  were  essential 
in  the  construction,  etc.  If  one  enters  a  leprous  house  backwards,  although 
all  his  body  was  already  in  the  house  except  his  nose,  he  remains  clean. 
And  ye  shall  separate  the  children  of  Israel  from  their  uncleanness,"  whence 
you  derive  the  warning  that  the  children  of  Israel  should  separate  them- 
selves from  their  wives  near  the  period  of  menstruation,  etc.  If  there 
were  two  paths  one  of  which  was  unclean  (but  it  was  not  certain  which 
one),  and  one  passed  through  one  of  them  entering,  etc.      .        .        17-26 


CHAPTER    III. 

Mishna  /.  to  VII.  There  are  two  kinds  of  oaths  subdivided  into  four. 
I  swear  that  I  will  eat,  or  I  will  not  eat,  etc.  Where  do  we  find  that  one 
must  bring  an  offering  for  mere  talk,  as  this  one  does  talk  and  brings  an 
offering.  What  is  Issor  mentioned  in  the  Torah?  If  one  says:  "  I  take 
upon  myself  not  to  eat  meat,"  etc.  Vain  (Shakve)  and  false  (Shekker)  are 
identical.  Stripes  apply  to  all  negatives  of  the  Torah  implying  manual 
labor,  but  not  to  those  without  manual  labor,  excepting,  however,  an  oath. 
There  is  a  moth,  which  is  but  a  minimum  in  size,  and  yet  one  is  liable  for 


vi  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

consuming  it.  I  swear  that  I  will  not  eat,  and  thereafter  eats  and  drinks,  he 
is  guilty  but  once.  I  will  drink  neither  wine,  oil  nor  honey,  and  then  drinks, 
he  is  guilty  for  each  severally.  If  he  swore  not  to  eat  and  thereafter  ate 
carcasses  or  illegal  cattle,  reptiles  and  vermin,  he  is  guilty.  R.  Simeon 
declares  him  free.  The  reason  of  him  who  holds  that  one  is  liable  for  an 
inclusion  is  that  he  compares  it  to  an  additional  prohibition.  It  is  im- 
material whether  the  things  sworn  oflf  concern  himself  or  others,  whether 
they  are  or  are  not  of  some  essential  nature.  One  is  guilty  only  for  an 
oath  made  with  reference  to  the  future,  etc.  I  swear  that  I  know  something 
to  testify  for  you,  and  it  is  found  hereafter  that  he  knows  nothing,  etc. 
There  is  a  rule  that,  if  to  something  that  was  included  in  the  general  a 
new  law  be  applied,  only  by  the  new  one  must  guide  one's  self,  etc.  To 
exclude  compulsion  what  could  illustrate  this?  As  it  happened  to  R. 
Kahana  and  R.  Assi  after  the  lectures  at  Rabh's  college,  etc.  Suppose 
one  swear  not  to  eat  this  bread,  and  then  he  is  in  danger  if  he  does  not 
eat  it,  how  is  it,  etc.?  If  one  swears  to  ignore  some  commandment  and 
does  not  carry  out  his  oath,  etc.  If  one  says  I  swear  not  to  eat  this  bread, 
in  case  I  eat  the  other,  etc.  Which  is  false  swearing?  If  one  swears  that 
something  is  different  from  what  it  is  known  by  everybody  to  be.  The 
provisions  regarding  uttered  swearing  apply  to  males,  females,  to  kindred, 
non-kindred,  etc 27-46 

CHAPTER   IV. 

MiSHNA  /.  TO  VI.  The  witness-oath  applies  to  men  but  not  to  women, 
to  unrelated  but  not  to  kindred,  etc.  If  a  scholar  was  aware  of  a  case,  but 
it  was  a  humiliation  to  him  to  go  to  that  particular  court  he  may  remain  at 
home,  etc.,  concerning  civil  cases  only.  The  many  things  inferred  from 
Exod.  xxiii.  7.  Keep  thyself  far  from  a  false  speech.  How  does  a  witness- 
oath  come  about?  If  some  one  said  to  two,  etc.  If  there  were  two  parties 
of  witnesses  and  both  denied  successively,  etc.  There  is  also  a  case  concern- 
ing a  witness  who  refuses  to  testify  to  the  death  of  a  husband,  etc.  If  one 
of  them  denies  and  the  other  confesses,  etc.  I  adjure  you  that  you  come  and 
bear  me  witness,  that  I  have  in  the  possession  of  so  and  so,  etc.  I  adjure 
you  to  testify  that  so  and  so  has  spread  abroad  an  evil  name  on  my 
daughter,  etc.  We  swear  that  we  know  nothing  for  you,  while  in  reality 
they  do  know,  etc.  I  adjure  you,  I  impose  upon  you,  I  bind  you  (by  oath) 
so  they  are  guilty,  etc.  If  one  writes  Aleph  Lamed  (the  first  letters  from 
Eloim),  etc.  It  must  riot  be  erased,  etc.  All  the  divine  names  found  in  the 
Torah  in  connection  with  Abraham  are  holy,  etc.  Amen  embraces  oath, 
acceptance  and  confidence,  etc.  Nay  means  oath  and  yea  means  also  an 
oath,  etc.  R.  Kama,  while  sitting  before  R.  Jehudah,  repeated  the  Mishna 
in  its  own  language,  and  he  said  to  him:  "  Change  the  language  and  use 
it  in  the  third  person, 46-65 

CHAPTER   V. 

Mishna  7.  to  VI.  The  depository  oath  concerns  men  and  women  non- 
kindred  and  kindred,  those  fit  to  testify  and  those  unfit,  etc.  What  is  the 
law,  when  one  has  intentionally  made  a  depository  oath  in  spite  of  a  warning, 
is   he   liable  to  a   sin-offering  or  not?     If  the   depository  claims  that  the 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  vii 

depbsi't  has  been  stolen  from  him,  swears,  but  thereafter  confesses,  etc.  If 
one  denies  money  when  there  are  witnesses,  he  is  subject  to  an  oath,  but 
is  free  from  such  if  there  is  a  document.  How  is  it  if  five  persons  claim  the 
four  articles  and  he  says  to  one  of  them  I  swear  that  thou  hast  not  with 
me  a  deposit,  etc.,  and  not  thou  and  not  thou,  etc.  .        .        .        66-74 


CHAPTER   VI. 

MiSHNA  /.  TO  III.  In  the  case  of  an  oath  before  court,  the  claim  must 
amount  to  two  silver,  and  the  confession  to  one  peruta,  etc.  If  one  requires 
movables  and  real  estate,  and  the  other  admits  movables  but  denies  real  estate 
or  vice  versa,  he  is  free,  etc.  One  must  stand  when  taking  the  oath;  a 
scholar,  however,  may  do  it  while  sitting.  An  oath  taken  by  one  before  the 
court  must  be  uttered  in  a  language  he  understands,  and  the  court  must 
say  to  him  the  following  introduction.  Be  aware  that  the  whole  world  was 
trembling  when  the  Lord  spake  on  the  Mount  Sinai:  "Thou  shalt  not  bear 
the  name  of  the  Lord  thy  God  falsely."  I  have  with  you  a  gold  dinar  in 
gold.  Nay  you  have  with  me  only  a  silver  dinar,  he  is  liable.  If  one  was 
about  to  claim  wheat,  and  the  defendant  hastened  to  confess  barley,  etc. 
What  is  the  difference  between  a  biblical  and  a  rabbinical  oath.  I  have  a 
mana  with  you.  Yea,  you  shall  not  return  it  to  me  without  the  presence 
of  witnesses,  etc.  In  another  case  one  demanded  a  hundred  zuz,  etc.  A 
borrower  said  to  the  lender:  "  You  are  trusted  so  long  as  you  will  say  that 
I  have  not  paid  you";  thereafter  he  paid  him  in  the  presence  of  witnesses, 
etc.  One  does  not  swear  to  the  following:  To  slaves  written  documents,  etc. 
One  swears  but  to  things  capable  of  being  measured,  weighed  and  counted. 
How  so?  If  one  lends  to  his  neighbor  on  a  pledge,  and  the  pledge  got  lost, 
etc.  If  one  lends  to  his  neighbor  1,000  zuz,  and  pledges  them  the  handle 
of  a  scythe  only,  etc.  75-93 

CHAPTER   VII. 

MiSHNA  7.  All  those  who  are  subject  to  a  biblical  oath  swear  and  do  not 
pay,  etc.  Give  me  change  for  a  dinar.  Give  the  dinar.  I  have  given  it  to  you 
already,  etc.  You  have  hired  me  for  two  zuz  to  repair  something,  while  the 
employer  says  that  he  hired  him  only  for  one  zuz,  etc.  If  witnesses  saw  one 
concealing  utensils  under  his  garments  when  coming  out  from  a  house, 
and  he  claims  that  he  had  bought  them,  etc.  The  oath  returns  to  its  place — 
the  Mount  Sinai.  If  there  were  two  parties  of  witnesses  contradicting  each 
other,  each  party  may  appear  and  testify  for  itself.  Let  the  master  con- 
join with  us  in  nullifying  the  statement  of  Rabh  and  Samuel.  It  once 
happened  that  5,  who  had  borrowed  money  of  A  through  a  surety  and 
on  a  document  died,  etc 93-ioS 

CHAPTER  VIIL 

MiSHNA  7.  There  are  four  kinds  of  bailees,  gratuitous,  on  hire,  borrower 
and  hirer,  etc.  This  is  the  rule:  "Whoever  tends  to  commutate,  by  his 
oath  liability  to  liability,  unliability  to  unability,  or  unability  to  liability  is 
free,  etc Appendix,  106-108 


SYNOPSIS  OF  SUBJECTS 


OF 


TRACT  ABUDA  ZARA  (IDOLATRY). 


CHAPTER.  I. 


MiSHNA  /.  Three  days  before  the  festival  of  the  heathen,  it  is  for- 
bidden to  have  any  business  with  them.  In  the  future  the  Lord  will  take 
the  Holy  Scroll  in  hand,  saying,  "He  who  was  occupied  with  it  shall  appear 
and  receive  his  reward."  The  kingdom  of  Rome  will  then  enter  first,  etc. 
After  Rome  has  departed,  Persia  enters,  etc.  We  have  constructed  many 
bridges,  conquered  many  great  cities,  we  were  engaged  in  many  wars,  all  for 
the  sake  of  Israel  to  enable  them  to  study  the  law,  etc.  "Have  we  then 
accepted  the  Torah,  and  not  fulfilled  its  commandments?"  A  Gentile 
who  is  occupied  with  the  study  of  the  law  is  likened  to  a  High-priest,  etc. 
"  Lord  of  the  Universe,  has  then  Israel,  who  has  accepted  the  Torah, 
observed  it?"  "  Men  of  ye  nations  may  come  and  testify  that  Israel  has 
observed  the  Torah.  Nimrod  may  testify,  etc.  There  are  twelve  hours  in  a 
day,  three  hours  of  which  the  Lord  is  occupied  with  the  Torah,  etc.  There 
is  no  smiling  by  the  Lord,  since  the  temple  was  destroyed.  But  in  the 
fourth  three  hours  He  teaches,  etc.  There  is  no  Gehenna  in  the  future. 
But  the  Lord  will  take  out  the  sun  from  its  sheath,  etc.  If  not  for  the  fear 
for  government  the  stronger  would  swallow  the  weaker,  etc.  Concerning 
the  explanation  of  (Amos,  iii.  2)  said  R.  Abuhuh,  I  will  do  it  in  the  form  of  a 
parable.  There  was  once  a  creditor  of  two  persons,  one  a  friend  and  the 
other  an  enemy  of  his.  It  is  advisable  for  one  not  to  pray  singly  the  addi- 
tional benediction  in  the  first  three  hours  at  the  first  day  of  new  year.  When 
one  performs  a  meritorious  act  in  this  world  it  precedes  him  in  the  world  to 
come.  "  Three  days,"  etc.  Is  such  a  long  time  needed?  is  this  forbidden 
because  a  Jew  must  not  interfere  with  the  idols,  or  because  "  Thou  shalt  not 
put  a  stone  for  the  blind  "  ?  The  prohibition  to  do  business  with  them 
refers  only  to  a  thing  which  can  be  kept  in  good  order  until  the  festival  day. 
It  is  advisable  for  one  to  always  arrange  the  praises  of  the  Ominipotent  first, 
and  thereafter  to  recite  the  daily  eighteen  benedictions.  The  following  are 
the  festivals  of  the  heathens:  Kalends,  Saturnalia,  Kratsin,  etc.  Adam  the 
first,  on  the  first  day  of  his  creation,  when  he  saw  the  sun  set,  cried:  "  Woe 
is  to  me,  the  world  is  to  be  returned  to  chaos,  etc."  Thirty-two  battles  the 
Romans  fought  with  the  Greeks,  etc.    Twenty-six  years  the  Romans  kept  their 


vi  SYNOPSIS    OF    SUBJECTS. 

promise  to  Israel,  and  thereafter  they  failed.  The  twenty-six  years  are  not 
counted.  The  world  will  continue  for  six  thousand  years,  the  first  two 
thousand  of  which  were  a  chaos  (Tahu),  etc.  It  happened  with  Antoninus 
(the  Caesar  of  Rome),  who  said  to  Rabbi,  etc.  (See  the  whole  legend,  pp. 
16-18).  Unklus  b.  Klenimus  embraced  Judaism,  and  the  Caesar  sent  militia 
to  take  him,  etc.  (See  the  legend,  pp.  18-19).  There  was  still  another  festi- 
val in  Rome  which  occurs  once  in  seventy  years,  on  which  they  would  make 

a  well  man  ride  on  a  lame  man,  etc 1-21 

MiSHNA  IV.  In  a  city  where  the  idol  is  placed,  interfering  is  forbidden 
inside,  but  not  outside.  If,  during  an  idol  festival  in  the  city,  some 
stores  were  there  decorated,  one  must  not  buy,  etc.  The  following  are  for- 
bidden to  be  sold  to  the  heathens;  Fir-cones,  etc.  We  have  a  tradition  that 
the  tract  Aboda  Zara  of  Abraham  the  patriarch  contained  four  hundred  chap- 
ters, etc.  Where  it  is  customary  to  sell  small  cattle  to  heathens  it  is  lawful 
to  do  so,  etc.  One  must  not  sell  to  them  bears,  lions,  and  all  such  things,  by 
which  the  people  can  be  injured,  etc.  I  walked  in  the  upper  market  of 
Ciporas,  and  I  met  one  of  the  minim,  named  Jacob,  of  the  village  of  Sac- 
hania.  So  taught  Josa  B.  Southyra,  etc.  (See  foot-note,  p.  27.)  The  legend 
of  Eliazer  ben  Durdaya  (28).  The  leech  hath  two  daughters  (crying), 
"  Give,  give,"  i.e.  minunism — and  the  government,  which  are  never  satisfied, 
etc.  Raba  sold  an  ass  to  an  Israelite  who  was  suspected  of  selling  it  to  a 
heathen,  etc.  He  who  occupies  himself  with  the  Torah,  but  does  not  observe 
bestowing  of  favors,  is  similar  to  him  who  denies  God.  The  Legend  of 
Eliezer  b.  Sarta  and  Chanina  b.  Tradion  when  captured  by  government, 
p.  29,  30.  How  Chanina  was  burned  together  with  the  holy  scrolls,  and 
what  became  of  his  wife  and  daughter,  p.  31,  32.  The  redeeming  of  latter 
by  R.  Mair  (Baal  Hanes),  p.  33.  Happy  is  he  who  conquers  his  evil  spirit, 
as  a  heroic  man,  etc.  It  is  advisable  to  divide  one's  years  into  three  parts: 
one-third  for  the  study  of  Scripture,  the  second  Mishna,  and  the  third  Tal- 
mud, etc.  R.  Aqiba  when  he  saw  the  wife  of  Tornus  Rupers,  he  laughed  and 
wept,  etc.  Houses  must  not  be  rented  to  the  heathens  in  Palestine,  etc. 
One  must  not  rent  his  bath-house  to  a  heathen,  but  how  is  it  to  a  Samaritan? 
etc 21-40 


CHAPTER  II. 

Mishna  /.  Cattle  must  not  be  placed  in  the  inns  of  the  heathens.  (See 
foot-note,  p.  41.)  "And  the  cows  went  straight  forward,"  etc.  What  does 
this  expression  mean?  It  reads  (Jos.  x.  13):  "And  the  sun  stood  still, 
written  in  the  book  of  Yasher."  What  is  the  book  of  Yasher?  One  must 
not  stay  alone  even  with  two  women.  If  an  Israelite  while  on  the  road, 
happened  to  be  accompanied  by  a  heathen,  etc.  One  must  not  confine  a 
heathen  because  she  brought  up  a  person  to  idolatry,  etc.  A  city  in  which 
there  is  no  Jewish  physician,  but  a  Samaritan  and  a  heathen,  the  heathen 
shall  circumcise  and  not  the  Samaritan.  One  may  employ  their  (the 
heathens')  services  for  curing  his  personal  property,  etc.  Ben  Dama  was 
bitten  by  a  snake,  Jacob  come  to  heal  him  with  the  name  of  Jesus,  but  R. 
Ismael  did  not  allow.  With  R.  Johanan  it  is  different,  as  he  himself  was  an 
established  physician.  Medicines  and  other  remedies  for  different  sickness 
by  different  men  and  women,  on  pp.  50-53.     The  following  things  of  the 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  vii 

heathens  are  prohibited,  and  the  prohibition  extends  even  to  the  deriving 
of  any  benefit  therefrom — viz:  wine,  vinegar,  etc.  No  benefit  is  to  be 
derived  from  the  dead.  Samuel  and  Ablat,  the  latter  who  was  a  heathen, 
were  sitting  together,  and  cooked  wine  was  brought  for  them,  etc.  To 
fermenting  wine  no  uncovery  applies.  One  must  not  pour  water  which 
has  been  uncovered,  in  the  public  streets,  and  also  not  water  cattle  with  it. 
The  sages  forbid  date-beer  of  the  heathens,  as  a  safeguard  against  inter- 
marriage. The  sick  heathens  who  become  swollen,  and  whom  uncovered 
water  does  not  harm,  surely  ate  reptiles,  so  thati  their  bodies  contain 
poison  which  prevent  the  harming  effects  of  the  snake-poison.  A 
heathen  pilgrim  is  prohibited  only  when  on  his  way  to  the  idol,  etc. 
Enamelled  vessels,  no  matter  what  color,  are  permissable.  Fish  oil  made 
by  a  heathen  specialist  is  permissable.  "Why  did  the  sages  forbid 
the  cheese  of  Anugiki?  Sweet  are  to  me  the  words  of  thy  friends 
(the  sages  who  are  explaining  the  law),  more  than  the  essence  of  the  Torah. 
Compress  your  lips,  one  upon  the  other,  and  hasten  not  to  propound  ques- 
tion,            41-65 

MiSHNA  V.  The  following  are  prohibited,  but  not  from  deriving  benefit 
from  them:  Milk,  etc.  What  is  the  reason  for  the  prohibition  of  milk?  etc. 
Concerning  oil,  Daniel  has  decreed  the  prohibition  according  to  Rabh,  etc. 
To  everything  which  is  not  served  on  the  table  of  noblemen  to  relish  the 
bread,  the  prohibition  of  "  cooked  by  a  heathen  "  does  not  apply.  All  that 
may  be  eaten  in  a  raw  state,  may  also  be  eaten  when  cooked  by  a  heathen. 
The  sea-donkey  is  allowed,  but  not  the  sea-ox;  and  you  remember  this  by 
the  following  mark:  the  unclean  (on  earth?)  is  clean,  while  the  clean  is 
unclean.  We  are  to  trust  the  wife  of  a  scholar  as  we  have  trusted  her 
husband.  Meat,  wine,  blue  wool  that  are  to  be  forwarded  through  a 
heathen,  require  each  two  seals.  The  following  things  are  allowed  to  eat, 
milk  milked  by  a  heathen  in  the  presence  of  an  Israelite,  honey  and  honey- 
cake,  etc.  Fish  entrails  as  well  as  fish-rye  you  may  buy  only  of  a  specialist, 
etc.  If  the  vender  says,  I  have  pickled  the  fish  and  know  them  to  be  clean, 
he  is  trusted.  Praised  be  the  Omnipotent,  who  puts  this  world  in  the  hands 
of  guardians!        ....  ......         65-81 


CHAPTER   III. 

MisiiNA  I.  TO  VI.  All  images  are  prohibited,  for  they  are  worshipped 
at  least  once  a  year.  The  staff  in  the  hand  of  the  idol.  The  bird  in  its 
hand  of  the  idol.  Finally,  the  sphere  is  to  indicate  that  it  sacrifices  itself 
for  the  whole  globe.  If  one  finds  fragments  of  images,  he  is  allowed  to 
use  them,  etc.  It  is  taught  that  a  heathen  can  profane  the  idol  of  his 
fellow  heathen  as  well  as  his  own,  while  an  Israelite  cannot  profane  the  idol 
of  a  heathen.  If  one  finds  vessels  with  the  image  of  the  sun,  moon,  etc., 
he  must  throw  them  into  the  salt  lake.  The  human  image  and  that  of  a 
nurse  are,  however,  prohibited  only  when  having  respectively  a  measure  in 
the  hand  and  a  son  in  the  arms  whom  she  is  nursing.  One  may  grind 
the  images  and  scatter  them  to  the  wind,  or  sink  them  into  the  sea,  etc. 
Peroklas,  the  son  of  a  philosopher,  asked  once  R.  Gamaliel  at  Ako,  who  was 
then  bathing  in  the  bath  of  the  goddess  Aphrodite,  etc.  R.  Gamaliel  gave 
Peroklas  an  evasive  answer;  but  I  (Hama)  say  it  was  not  evasive,  etc.,  etc. 


Hii  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

The    mountains    and    hills    worshipped    by    heathens    are    allowed    to    use, 
but  not  the  things,  brought  upon  them,  etc.     Wherever  you  find  a  high 
mountain,  an  elevated  hill,  a  leafy  tree,  there  is  surely  an  idol  there.     A 
town  or  place  bearing  the  name  of  an  idol  should  be  renamed.     If  stones 
absolved  fortuitously  from  a  mountain  rock,  that  was  worshipped,  is  their 
use  allowed  or  not  ?........  82-96 

MiSHNA  VII.  TO  XV.  If  a  house  situated,  close  by  a  worship-house  of 
an  idol  crumbles  down,  its  owner  is  prohibited  from  rebuilding  it,  etc. 
There  are  three  kinds  of  houses.  There  are  three  kinds  of  stones.  There 
are  three  kinds  of  groves,  etc.  What  is  a  grove?  A  tree  with  an  idol  under 
it.  R.  Simion  said:  "Any  tree  that  is  worshipped.  It  is  not  allowed  to  sit 
down  in  the  shade  of  such  a  tree."  Under  such  a  tree  is  allowed  to  sow 
herbs  in  the  winter,  but  not  in  summer,  etc.  To  derive  any  benefit  of  wood 
obtained  from  an  idol-grove  is  prohibited.  How  is  the  idol  worship  of  a 
tree  profaned,  etc.?        ........  96-103 


CHAPTER    IV. 

MiSHNA  /.  TO  VI.  Three  stones  near  one  another  and  beside  the 
Merkules  are  prohibited.  The  son  of  the  saints  treads  on  them,  should  we 
abstain  thereform?  Who  was  this  son,  etc.?  One  is  not  liable  for  slaughter- 
ing a  blemished  animal  to  an  idol,  etc.  Money,  garments,  utensils  found 
on  the  head  of  an  idol  are  allowed,  etc.  The  use  of  a  garden  or  bathing- 
place  belonging  to  an  idol  is  allowed  when  it  is  gratis,  etc.  It  is  common 
sense  that  that  idol  of  an  Israelite  should  be  forbidden  from  the  very 
beginning,  etc.  Whether  or  no  food  offered  to  an  idol,  if  profaned,  loses 
thereby  its  defilement?  There  was  a  pantry  in  the  temple,  where  the 
Macabees  heaped  up  the  stones  of  the  altar  defiled  by  the  Greeks.  A 
heathen  can  profane  his  idol  as  well  as  that  of  his  neighbor,  etc.  How  is 
an  idol  to  be  profaned?  If  an  Israelite  erects  a  brick  to  worship  it,  but 
does  not  worship,  and  a  heathen  comes,  and  worships  it,  it  is  prohibited, 
etc.  An  idol  anbandoned  by  its  worshippers  in  time  of  peace  is  allowed. 
My  respect  for  Rabh  and  Samuel  is  so  great  that  I  should  readily  fill  my 
eyes  with  the  ashes  of  their  corpses;  none  the  less,  etc.  An  animal  resting 
in  the  proximity  of  an  idol  becomes  unallowable,  etc.  The  animal 
obtained  by  the  idol-worshippers  in  exchange  for  an  idol  is  for- 
bidden        103-119 

MiSHNA  VII.  TO  IX.  If  God  is  displeased  with  idol-worship,  why  does  he 
not  destroy  the  idols,  etc.?  If  the  heathens  worshipped  but  things  not  need- 
ful to  the  world.  He  would  surely  annihilate  them;  but  they  worship  the 
sun,  moon,  stars  and  the  planets.  How  is  it  that  so  many  cripples  are 
cured  by  the  idols  in  their  temples?  If  one  comes  to  defile  himself,  the 
door  is  opened  to  him,  while  when  one  comes  to  cleanse  himself,  he  is 
supported.  It  is  forbidden  both  to  tread  and  to  gather  with  an  Israelite, 
who  prepares  the  wine  while  he  is  unclean,  etc.  They  further  warned 
against  contributing  toward  the  conditions  defiling  the  fruit  in  Palestine, 
etc.  It  once  happened  that  an  Israelite  and  a  heathen  jointly  hired  and 
worked  a  wine-press  in  the  City  of  Nahardea,  etc.  A  heathen  once  hap- 
pened to  enter  the  house  of  a  Jewish  wine-seller,  etc.  R.  Johanan  b.  Arza 
and  R.  Jose  b.    Nehorai   were  once   sitting  together  indulging  a  little   in 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  ix 

wine,  when  a  man  came  in,  etc.  Does  a  heathen  render  the  wine  prohibited 
by  pouring  water  into  it?  Whether  it  is  allowed  to  hire  a  heathen  for  con- 
veying grapes  to  the  wine-press  of  an  Israelite,  etc.?  A  heathen  stand- 
ing near  the  wine  reservoir  renders  the  wine  forbidden,  provided  he  has 
a  lien  on  it,  etc.  If  an  Israelite,  who  has  cleansed  the  wine  of  a  heathen, 
left  it  on  the  latter's  premises,  etc.  When  and  Israelite  buys  or  rents  a  house 
in  the  courtyard  of  a  heathen,  etc.  It  once  happened  that  Israelites  bought 
of  Sarsik,  the  viceroy,  the  grapes  of  a  vineyard,  etc.      ,        .        .        1 19-134 


CHAPTER   V. 

MiSHNA  /.  TO  V.  The  wages  of  a  laborer  hired  by  a  heathen  to  work 
with  him,  wine  for  libation  are  prohibited.  How  is  it  when  the  heathen 
hires  a  Jewish  laborer  to  prepare  wine  in  general?  Whether  or  no  the  use 
of  the  money  obtained  by  a  heathen  from  the  sale  of  an  idol  is  all  for- 
bidden to  an  Israelite.  Can  a  citizen-proselyte,  a  heathen  settled  down 
in  the  land  of  Israel,  on  having  taking  upon  himself  not  to  practice  idol- 
worship  only,  etc.  "Jews  in  prospect  such  pleasures  in  your  paradise?  Do 
you  really  mean,"  said  the  other,  "that  there  are  greater  pleasures  than 
this?"  If  offered  wine  he  poured  on  grapes,  etc.  In  the  case  when  beer 
vinegar  was  intermixed  with  wine  vinegar,  or  oaten  yeast  with  wheat  yeast, 
etc.  The  rule  is:  "a  prohibited  thing  renders  another  one  forbidden,"  etc. 
It  once  happened  that  a  mouse  was  found  in  a  barrel  of  beer,  and  Rabh  pro- 
hibited the  beer.  Witie  known  as  being  watched,  is  allowed  when  trans- 
ported from  place  to  place  by  a  heathen,  etc.  "  When  an  Israelite  leaves  his 
wine  in  the  wagon,"  etc.  Jewish  wine  was  once  stored  up  in  a  house, 
where  a  heathen  and  an  Israelite  lived  in  the  lower  and  upper  floors, 
respectively,  etc.  An  Israelite  and  a  heathen  were  once  at  an  inn  sitting  and 
drinking  wine,  etc.  In  the  city  of  Sumbeditha  thieves  once  intruded  into  a 
house,  etc.  When  an  army  enters  a  town  in  time  of  peace  etc.  He  who 
sells  his  wine  to  a  heathen  is  allowed  to  use  the  money,  etc.  Rabh  told  the 
Jewish  wine-dealers  to  have  their  heathen  customers  pay  in  advance,  etc. 
Once  an  Israelite  said  to  his  neighbor:  "When  I  make  up  my  mind  to  sell 
this  field,  I  will  sell  it  to  you."  Later  on  he  sold  it  to  a  third  party,  etc. 
An  Israelite  once  said  to  his  neighbor:  "When  I  make  up  mind  to  sell 
this  field,  I  will  sell  it  to  you  for  a  hundred  suz,  etc.  If  the  funnel  was 
first  used  to  measure  through  it  into  the  heathens  flask,  etc.  Devoted  wine 
is  prohibited,  and  renders  unallowable  even  by  a  minimal  quantity.  If  for- 
bidden wine  falls  into  a  reservoir,  and  simultaneously  a  pitcher  of  water, 
etc.  This  is  the  rule:  "When  the  two  are  of  the  same  kind;  a  minimal 
quantity  suffices,  etc.  For  how  long  must  the  utensils  remain  glowing  in 
fire,  etc.    "  A  knife  is  cleansed  even  by  grinding  it." 


,     SYNOPSIS  OF  SUBJECTS 

OF 

TRACT   HORIOTH   (DECISIONS). 


CHAPTER    I. 


MiSHNA  /.  TO  V.  If,  after  the  court  had  decreed  the  transgression  of 
one  of  all  the  commandments  prescribed  in  the  Torah,  an  individual  guided 
by  this  decree  acted  erroneously,  etc.  If  upon  issuing  the  decree  the  court 
becomes  aware  of  its  being  conceived  in  error  and  retracts,  and  mean- 
while an  individual  commits  a  transgression  upon  their  decree,  etc.  If  while 
the  court  was  deciding,  one  of  its  members  who  perceived  their  error  drew 
their  attention  to  it,  etc.  If  causing  the  whole  people  to  act  erroneously,  etc. 
If  upon  the  erroneous  decree  of  the  court  the  whole  people,  or  its  majority, 
acted,  etc., 3-12 

CHAPTER    II. 

MiSHNA  /.  TO  VII.  If  an  anointed  priest  has  erroneously  rendered  an 
unlawful  decision  against  himself  and  acted  accordingly  by  mistake,  etc. 
If  he  (the  said  priest)  both  decided  and  acted  for  himself,  etc.  The  court 
is  not  liable  unless  the  issued  decree  concerns  Korath  and  sin-ofifering 
respectively.  It  is  also  not  liable  for  a  decree  concerning  a  command  or 
a  prohibition  with  regard  to  (polluting)  the  sanctuary.  There  is  no  liability 
when  the  decree  concerns  an  adjuring  challenge  to  testify,  a  hastily  made 
vow,  etc.  Concerning  a  ruler  and  the  high  priest's  oflferings  for  their 
sin, 13-18 

CHAPTER  III. 

MiSHNA  I.  TO  VII.  An  anointed  priest  who  has  sinned  and  was  removed 
from  his  office,  etc.  If  they  were  appointed  to  their  respective  positions 
after  they  had  sinned,  etc.  Who  is  the  anointed  priest?  He  who  was  con- 
secrated to  priesthood  by  the  holy  ointment,  etc.  The  high  priest  rends  his 
garment  from  below;  the  common  priest,  from  the  top,  etc.  What  is  more 
common  precedes  the  less  common.  The  man  has  the  preference  over  the 
woman,  etc.  In  captivity  his  master  has  the  preference  over  his  father.  His 
mother,  however,  has  the  preference  over  all.     The  following  precede  one 


IT  SYNOPSIS    OF    SUBJECTS. 

another  in  order  of  arrangement,  etc.  Why  does  the  dog  know  his  master, 
and  the  cat  does  not?  Why  do  all  reign  over  the  mice?  Five  objects  are 
conducive  to  one's  forgetting  his  studies,  etc.  Five  are  apt  to  strengthen 
one's  memory,  etc.  The  following  ten  objects  are  cumbrous  to  one's  studies, 
etc.  When  the  prince  enters,  all  the  people  present  in  college  rise  to  their 
feet,  without  again  taking  their  seats  until  he  tells  them  to  do  so.  When 
the  chief  justice  enters,  the  people  occupying  two  rows  of  seats  facing 
the  entrance  rise,  etc.  The  legend  which  happened  to  Raban  Simon  b. 
Gamaliel  with  R.  Mair  and  R.  Nathan.  How  the  latter  were  removed  from 
the  college.  An  erudite  scholar  and  a  dialectician,  who  has  the  preference? 
How  Abaye  rose  to  be  the  chief  of  the  College  of  Sura,      .        .        .        18-29 


Princeton  Theological  Seminary   Libraries 


1    1012   01251    5856 


