lii 


ill 


iiii^ 


ii 

iliiii 


tihvavy  of  Che  Cbeolojvcal  ^tminaxy 

PRINCETON  •  NEW  JERSEY 


PRESENTED  BY 


John  Stuart  Conning,  D.D, 

BM  500  .R6  1918  v. 13-14 
Talmud. 

New  edition  of  the 
Babylonian  Talmud 


NEW    EDITION 

nv  THE  ••'iii-^uibAt 


Babylonian  Talmud 


©riQinal  XTejt,  j£5iteC>,  (Iorrecte&,  jformulateD,  anD 
UranslateO  into  JEnalisb 


MICHAEL  L.  RODKINSON 


SECTION   JURISPRUDENCE   (DAMAGES) 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA 
(LAST   GATE,    PART    I.) 


Volume  V.  (XIII.) 


Boston 

THE  TALMUD  SOCIETY 

1918 


EXPLANATORY    REMARKS. 

In  our  translation  we  adopted  these  principles: 

1.  Tenan  of  the  original — We  have  learned  In  a  Mishna;  7a«ila— We  havt 
learned  in  a  Boraitha;  lUrnar — It  was  taught. 

2.  Questions  are  indicated  by  the  interrogation  point,  and  are  immediately 
followed  by  the  answers,  without  being  so  marked. 

3.  When  in  the  original  there  occur  two  statements  separated  by  the  phrase, 
Lishna  achrena  or  Wa'ibayith  Aetna  or  Ik Aa  </W«;-«  (literally,  "otherwise  interpreted  "), 
we  translate  only  the  second. 

4.  As  the  pages  of  the  original  are  indicated  in  our  new  Hebrew  edition,  it  is  not 
deemed  necessary  to  mark  them  in  the  English  edition,  this  being  only  a  translation 
from  the  latter. 

5.  Words  or  passages  enclosed  in  round  parentheses  {  )  denote  the  explanation 
rendered  by  Rashi  to  the  foregoing  sentence  or  word.  Square  parentheses  [  ]  contain 
commentaries  by  authorities  of  the  last  period  of  construction  of  the  Gemara. 


CopvRioHT,  1903,  wr 
MICHAEI,  L.  R0DKIN30N. 


Copyright  1916,  bt 
NEW  TAI  Mt'O  I'UBLISEiING  SOC5IETT 


TO  HIM 

WHO     FOR     HIS     PHILANTHROPY     AND      HUMANITY      IS     BELOVED     AND 
HIGHLY    PRAISED     BY    THE    PEOPLE    OF    GREATER 
NEW     YORK     AND     COUNTRY 

The  Honorable  SAMUEL  GREENBAUM 

JUSTICE   OF    SUPREME    COURT 

THIS     VOLUME     IS     RESPECTFULLY     DEDICATED     BY     HIS     ADMIRER 
AND     FRIEND 

MICHAEL  L.  RODKINSON 


New  York,  January  i,  igoa. 


CONTENTS. 


CHAPTER   I. 


Rules  and  Regulations  concerning  Houses,  Yards,  and  Fields 
IN  Partnership  or  Conjointly;  the  Sharing  in  Partitions, 
Fences,  and  Walls;  Looking  into  Others'  Property; 
Claims  Paid  before  Due;  Duties  of  One  to  his  City — 
Streets,  etc.;  Citizenship  by  Lapse  of  Time,  and  con- 
cerning THE  Size  of  a  Yard  Liable  to  Division        .        i 

CHAPTER  II. 

Rules  and  Regulations  concerning  Space  to  be  Left  between 
One's  Property  and  Another's,  be  it  of  One  or  Two 
Kinds.  Under  what  Conditions  a  Tenant  may  Place  an 
Oven  in  his  Dwelling.  Under  what  Circumstances  a 
Shop  in  a  Yard  may  be  Prevented.  Concerning  the 
Space  to  be  Left  between  a  City  and  Pigeon-coops, 
Trees,  Barns,  Cemeteries,  and  Tanneries  ,        .      55 

CHAPTER   IIL 

Rules  and  Regulations  concerning  Occupancy  (Hazakah) — at 
WHAT  Time  and  in  what  Respect  it  Gives  Title.  Re- 
plevins BY  Court.  Properties  Occupied  by  a  Defendant 
who  is  Mightier  than  the  Plaintiff  but  Equal  in  Evi- 
dence. A  Protest  against  Occupancy  in  One's  Presence 
OR  Absence  by  One's  Opponent.  The  Writing  of  Bills  of 
Sale  and  Deeds  of  Gift.  Occupancies  which  Came  from 
Inheritance.  The  Occupancies  of  Specialists,  Partners, 
Gardeners,  and  Guardians.  Obtaining  Properties  from 
the  Contracting  Collectors  of  Duties  and  Taxes.  Bail- 
ments— of  whom  they  may  be  Accepted.  Personal  Prop- 
erties to  which  the  Law  of  Occupancy  does  and  does  not 
Apply.  Opening  of  Windows  and  Doors  to  Neighbors* 
OR  Partners'  Properties,  and  Building  of  Caves,  Pits, 
ETC.,  under  Public  Ground S^ 

V 


vi  CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER   IV. 

Rules  and  Regulations  concerning  Unconditional  and  Con- 
ditional Sales  or  Gifts  of  Buildings,  Houses,  and  Pal- 
aces :  WHAT  IS  and  what  is  not  Included  ;  and  also  con- 
cerning Yards,  Bath-houses,  and  Press-houses  for  Oil 
and  Wine.  Sales  of  Whole  Cities,  Valleys,  Fields, 
Wells,  etc 147 

CHAPTER   V. 

Rules  and  Regulations  concerning  Sales  of  Ships,  Boats, 
Animals,  and  Teams;  concerning  Broods  of  Pigeons  and 
Beasts;  Trees,  with  the  Ground  and  without.  How  to 
Acquire  Title  to  Fruit  and  Flax.  Of  Articles  which 
BECAME  Dearer  or  Cheaper  between  the  Time  of  Sale 
and  Delivery.  At  what  Time  the  Wholesalers  and 
Storekeepers  had  to  Correct  their  Weights  and  Meas- 
ures,   and    of    what    Material   the   Weights    might   and 

MIGHT    NOT    BE    MaDE 167 

Appbmdix  TO  Mishna  I.,  Chap.  III.,  page  8;^      ,        ,        ,     ai4 


SYNOPSIS   OF  SUBJECTS 


TRACT  BABA  BATHRA  (LAST  GATE). 


CHAPTER   I. 


MiSHNAS  /.  TO  ///.  In  case  of  dividing  partnerships  in  a  yard,  where  and 
of  what  the  wall  shall  be  built.  Is  overlooking  another's  property  considered 
injurious  ?  Of  what  size  the  yard  must  be  to  be  fit  for  division.  May  a  prayer- 
house  be  taken  apart  before  the  new  building  is  ready  ?  The  legend  ot 
Herod  the  great  with  Simeon  b.  Shatuh.  How  Herod  built  the  Temple 
without  the  consent  of  the  Roman  government.  Concerning  partitions,  fences 
in  partners'  gardens,  and  valleys.  May  or  may  not  one  be  compelled  to  join 
in  the  expenses  offences  if  one's  estate  is  surrounded  by  his  neighbor's  on 
three  sides  ?  If  there  is  a  wall,  and  one  of  the  owners  claims  that  his  neigh- 
bor did  not  bear  his  share  of  the  expense.  A  debtor  who  says :  I  paid  my 
debt  before  due.  If  the  plaintiff  demanded  his  money  long  after  due.  He 
who  claims,  "  I  have  never  borrowed,"  is  to  be  considered  as  if  he  should 
say,  "I  have  never  paid."  How  and  where  is  a  parapet  to  be  mad"  and  of 
what  size  ?  If  there  were  two  courtyards  one  upon  the  other ;  there  were 
two  tenants,  and  the  roof  of  the  lower  one  sank  ;  there  was  one  who  built  a 
wall  against  the  window  of  his  neighbor,  etc.  Two  brothers  divided  a 
bequest,  a  palace  and  a  fine  garden,  and  the  latter  built  a  wall  on  the  edge 
of  the  garden.  There  was  a  note  belonging  to  orphans,  against  which  the 
other  party  showed  a  receipt,      ........         i-j6 

MiSHNA  IV.  The  sharing  in  the  building  of  a  gate  to  a  courtyard  as  well 
as  to  a  city  wall.  Who  are  obliged  to  pay  taxes  and  duties  of  a  city  ?  Rabbi 
opened  his  barns  of  grain  in  the  years  of  famine,  etc.  How  long  must  one 
dwell  in  a  city  to  be  taxed  ?  Charity  must  be  collected  by  two  persons  and 
distributed  by  three.  May  one  be  pledged  or  not  for  charity  ?  Who  of  the 
poor  must  be  investigated  before  support,  and  who  supported  immediately 
without  inquiry  ?  What  about  one  who  begged  from  door  to  door  ?  The 
virtue  of  charity  equals  the  sum  of  the  virtues  of  all  the  other  commandments 
together.  "  I  was  told  by  the  child  who  was  corrected  by  his  mother,"  etc. 
The  one  who  is  doing  charity  secretly  is  greater  than  Moses  our  master. 
How  is  the  verse,  Prov.  xxi.  21,  to  be  understood  ?  Whosoever  makes  it  his 
business  to  do  charity  will  be  blessed  with  sons  having  wisdom,  wealth,  etc. 
The  discussion  of  Aqiba  with  Tarnusruphus.  As  the  yearly  household  ex- 
penses for  one  are  appointed  (in  Heaven)  on  each  Rosh  Hashana,  so  are  his 


viii  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

losses.  Grace  is  charity  which  nears  the  redeeming,  etc.  How  may  the 
horn  of  Israel  be  raised  ?  Rabban  Johanan  b.  Zakkai  questioned  his  disciples 
as  to  the  meaning  of  the  verse,  Prov.  xiv.  34,  etc,  Iphra  Hurmiz,  the  mother 
of  King  Sabur,  sent  four  hundred  dinars  for  charity  to  R.  Ammi,  etc.  If  one 
bought  a  tract  of  land,  however  small,  he  is  considered  a  citizen  immedi- 
ately,           16-32 

MiSHNA  V.  Partners  cannot  compel  each  other  to  divide.  This  is  the 
rule:  If,  after  division,  each  part  retains  its  former  name,  then  one  can  com- 
pel his  partner  to  divide.  A  yard  must  be  divided  in  accordance  with  the 
doors,  etc.  The  four  ells  which  are  allowed  for  each  door  are  for  unloading. 
If  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  an  alley  desires  to  open  the  door  leading  from 
his  yard  to  another  alley.  Inhabitants  of  alleys  who  desire  to  make  doors  to 
the  street  may  be  prevented  by  the  public.  Prophecy  was  taken  away  from 
the  prophets  and  was  given  to  the  wise,  to  lunatics,  and  children  (how  this 
is  to  be  understood).  There  was  a  man  who  bought  an  estate  near  to  the 
estate  of  his  father-in-law  (who  had  no  male  children).  The  law,  "Either 
you  concede  or  I  concede,"  when  is  it  applied  ?  The  case  of  female  slaves 
whom  Huna  bequeathed  to  his  sons.  May  or  may  not  the  books  of  the 
Bible  be  bound  together  ?  What  must  the  size  of  the  holy  scrolls  be  ?  What 
was  placed  in  the  ark,  and  how.  The  order  of  the  Prophets,  and  who  wrote 
them  ?  Who  was  Job — an  Israelite  or  a  Gentile — and  at  what  time  did  he 
exist,  if  he  existed  at  all  ?  The  legends  about  Satan  and  Job.  Satan  was 
more  afflicted  than  Job  himself,  etc.  Satan  and  Peninnah  both  intended  (with 
their  accusations)  to  please  Heaven,  etc.  The  explanation  of  the  passages 
addressed  out  of  the  storm  wind,  etc.,  etc.  Why  was  not  Job  doubly  rewarded 
with  daughters,  as  he  was  with  sons  and  with  all  his  property  ?  There  are 
three  to  whom  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  gave  a  taste  of  the  world  to 
come  in  this  world.  There  are  six  whom  the  angel  of  death  has  not  domi- 
nated.    There  are  four  who  died  without  sin,  ....        32-54 

CHAPTER    II. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  ///,  How  much  space  is  to  be  left  between  one's  property 
and  another's  ?  For  whom  is  it  to  remove  himself  from  supposed  injury, 
the  supposed  injurer  or  him  who  would  be  injured  ?  One  must  remove  a 
pond  for  steeping  flax  from  herbs,  garlic  from  onions,  and  mustard  from 
bees.  Three  spans  space,  and  plastered  with  lime — are  both  needed,  or 
does  one  of  them  suffice  ?  Is  one  allowed  to  void  his  urine  near  the  wall  of 
his  neighbor  ?  Under  what  circumstances  one  may  or  may  not  place  an  oven 
in  a  lower  story  of  a  house.  Can  one  of  the  partners  in  a  yard  prevent  his 
partner  from  establishing  a  store  in  it,  or  not  ?  At  what  age  a  child  may  be 
taken  to  school.  The  enactment  of  Joshua  b.  Gamla  concerning  teaching  of 
children.  In  what  circumstances  the  claim,"  You  are  cutting  off  my  livelihood," 
applies?  "I  doubt  whether  an  inhabitant  of  one  alley  can  prevent  one  of 
another  alley  from  competing  with  him."  The  legend  of  R.  Dimi's  dry 
figs.  How  much  space  is  to  be  left  from  one  wall  to  an  opposite  one,  and 
how  much  to  a  window, 55-^7 

MiSHNAS  /F.  TO  X//.  To  what  distance  a  ladder  must  be  removed  from 
one's  neighbor's  pigeon-coop.  The  distance  between  a  pigeon-coop  and  the 
city.     If  a  case  which  we  should  judge  by  a  majority  would  be  different  if 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  ix 

according  to  proximity,  how  is  it  to  be  judged  ?  How  much  space  is  to  be 
left  to  the  city  when  planting  a  fruit  tree  outside  ;  and  how  much  to  a  wild 
one,  to  a  carob,  and  to  a  sycamore.  How  much  to  barns,  to  cemeteries,  and 
to  tanneries.  The  Shekhinah  occupies  every  place.  The  world  is  like  a 
balcony  without  the  fourth  wall,  etc.  On  what  side  of  the  city  a  tannery  may 
be  placed.  He  who  desires  to  increase  his  wisdom  shall  recite  his  prayers 
towards  the  south,  etc.  To  a  well  a  distance  of  twenty-five  ells  must  be 
left  when  planting  a  tree,  etc.  One  must  not  plant  a  tree  near  his  neighbor's 
field,  etc.  A  tree  which  bears  fruit  to  the  measure  of  a  kab  is  forbidden  to 
be  cut  down.  A  tree  which  is  within  sixteen  ells  of  the  boundary  of  another's 
estate  is  considered  robbery,  etc.  If  the  branches  of  a  tree  are  inclined 
towards  another's  field,  what  is  to  be  done  ?  The  branches  of  a  tree  which 
overhang  public  ground  may  be  cut  off,  so  that  a  camel  with  its  rider  may 
pass  freely, 67-82 

CHAPTER   III. 

MiSHNA  /.  The  law  of  occupancy — to  what  it  does  and  does  not  apply. 
Whence  is  it  deduced  ?  What  time  is  needed  for  it,  and  how  a  protest 
against  it  should  be  made.  Must  the  three  years  of  hazakah  be  interrupted  ? 
Who  testifies  as  to  the  occupancy  of  houses  ?  The  many  cases  of  occupied 
houses  which  the  owners  claimed,  brought  before  different  rabbis  of  the 
Amoraim  who  decided  differently.  If  one  claims,  "  It  was  from  my  parents," 
and  the  other  claims  the  same.  There  was  one  who  said  :  "  I  possessed  a 
document  but  lost  the  true  one,  and  this  is  a  correct  copy."  There  was 
another  case  similar  concerning  a  hundred  zuz  in  cash.  It  was  murmured 
among  people  that  Rabha  b.  Sharshum  had  appropriated  land  belonging  to 
orphans,  and  Abayi  sent  for  him.  One  snatched  a  piece  of  silver  from  his 
neighbor  and  the  case  was  brought  before  R.  Ami.  There  was  a  boat  about 
which  two  parties  quarrelled,  each  claiming  that  it  was  his.  If  each  of  the 
parties  claim  :  "This  estate  belonged  to  my  parents."  If  witnesses  testify 
that  the  plaintiff  has  loaded  a  basket  of  fruit  from  this  field  on  the  shoulders 
of  the  defendant,  the  hazakah  is  effected  immediately.  Is  ploughing  a  haza- 
kah, or  not  ?  If  one  has  made  a  hazakah  on  the  trees  and  another  upon 
the  ground,  has  the  owner  of  the  trees  a  share  in  the  ground  ?     .     .    83-100 

MiSHNAS  //.  AND  ///.  There  are  three  lands  concerning  the  law  of  haza- 
kah. If  one  runs  away  from  a  city  because  of  crime,  and  one  occupies  his 
estate,  the  law  of  hazakah  applies.  How  should  one  protest  ?  Is  a  protest 
not  in  one's  presence  to  be  considered  ?  Under  what  circumstances  the 
court  announces  to  the  defendant  that  his  property  will  be  sold.  How  is  it 
when  he  told  them  to  write  a  deed  of  gift  without  an  explanation  ?  A  haza- 
kah to  which  there  is  no  claim  is  not  to  be  considered.  How  so  ?  What 
happened  to  Anan  and  Kahana,  who  placed  their  fences  on  others'  estates. 
If  the  father  has  consumed  one  year  and  his  son  two,  or  vice  versa,  or  each 
of  them  one  year  and  the  buyer  from  them  one  year,  is  it  considered  a 
hazakah  ?  The  law  of  hazakah  does  not  apply  to  specialists,  farmers,  etc. 
May  one  who  is  supposed  to  be  interested  in  a  case  be  a  witness  ?  Has  one 
a  right  to  say  :  "I  cut  myself  off  from  this  estate  entirely  "  ?  If  A  has  robbed 
B  of  a  field  and  has  sold  it  to  C,  then  D  comes  with  a  claim,  has  B  then  any 
right  to  be  a  witness  for  C?     If  one  sold  a  field  to  his  neighbor  without 


X  SYNOPSIS    OV    SUBJECTS. 

security,  he  has  no  right  to  qualify  as  a  witness  concerning  it.  The  an- 
nouncement of  Rabha  or  Papa  about  an  article  which  a  Gentile  takes  away 
from  an  Israelite.  If  one  has  given  his  garment  to  a  specialist,  the  latter 
claiming  two  zuz  and  the  owner  one.  If  one  has  exchanged  his  utensils  for 
another's  in  the  house  of  a  specialist,  etc.  "  Come  and  I  will  tell  you  what 
the  swindlers  of  Pumbeditha  are  doing."  May  a  gardener  be  taken  as  a 
w^itness  in  case  of  a  claim,  or  not?  A  robber — neither  he  nor  his  son  has 
hazakah,  but  his  grandson  has.  A  specialist  or  a  gardener  who  has  ceased 
his  profession,  a  son  who  was  separated  from  his  father,  and  a  woman  who 
was  divorced — all  ot  them  are  considered,  in  a  case  of  hazakah,  with  men 
in  general.  If  one  sold  his  estate  by  duress,  the  sale  is  valid.  Why  so  ? 
Tabba  hanged  Pappi  on  a  tree,  to  compel  him  to  sell  him  his  field.  If  wit- 
nesses testify  they  signed  a  note  whose  amount  was  not  yet  paid,  but  was 
prepared  by  the  borrower  in  case  he  should  find  some  one  who  would  make 
him  the  loan.  "I  did  so  only  with  the  intention  of  pleasing  my  husband, 
but  not  with  the  intention  of  selling  it."  Is  there  no  occupancy  in  the  estate 
of  a  married  woman  ?  If  one  borrowed  from  his  bondsman  and  encumbered 
his  estate  for  him  by  a  document,  and  afterwards  he  freed  him  ?  One  must 
not  accept  bailments  from  women,  slaves,  or  children.  If  one  who  was  the 
business  man  of  the  house,  and  the  bills  of  sale  and  notes  were  in  his  name, 
claims  :  "  All  this  is  my  own  " — what  should  be  the  evidence  ?  Concerning 
a  gift  or  an  inheritance  of  brothers.  Is  it  not  the  duty  of  every  Israelite  to 
save  the  property  of  his  neighbor  from  damage  when  seeing  danger  is  near  ? 
There  cannot  be  a  better  hazakah  than  lifting  up,  as  this  act  gives  title  to 
one  in  everything.  The  estate  of  idolaters,  if  sold  to  an  Israelite,  and  the 
latter  has  not  made  a  hazakah  on  it,  it  is  like  a  desert.  If  an  Israelite  buys 
a  field  from  a  Gentile  and  another  Israelite  comes  and  takes  possession  of  it 
(before  the  bill  of  sale  reaches  the  buyer).  "  I  was  told  by  the  Exilarch 
Uqban  the  following  three  things:  (a)  That  the  law  of  the  government 
should  be  respected  as  a  law  of  the  Torah,"  etc.,  .  .  .  100-134 
MiSHNAS  /v.  TO  X.  What,  and  under  what  circumstances,  collusive  wit- 
nesses have  to  pay.  If  there  were  three  brothers  and  one  stranger.  There 
is  a  difference  in  usage  of  articles — in  some  cases  hazakah  applies,  and  in 
some  not.  Does  this  rule  always  hold  good  ?  The  wonderful  sayings  and 
acts  of  Bnaha.  Hazakah  does  not  apply  to  movable  pipes  attached  to  drains, 
etc.  What  is  to  be  considered  an  Egyptian  window  ?  To  an  enclosure  the 
size  of  a  span  in  width,  hazakah  applies.  One  must  not  open  windows  to 
the  yard  even  when  he  is  a  partner  in  it.  One  must  not  open,  in  a  yard 
belonging  to  partners,  a  door  or  window  opposite  that  of  one's  partner,  etc. 
One  must  not  make  a  hole  in  public  ground.  "  There  were  enclosures  from 
R.  Ammi's  property  facing  an  alley,"  etc.  When  the  second  Temple  was 
destroyed,  many  of  Israel  separated  themselves  from  eating  meat  and  drink- 
ing wine.  Such  a  thing  must  not  be  decreed,  which  the  majority  of  the  con- 
gregation could  not  endure,  134-146 

CHAPTER    IV. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  V.  If  one  sells  a  house  unconditionally.  If  one  sells  a 
property,  he  must  write  in  the  bill  of  sale  :  "  I  reserve  nothing  of  it  for  my- 
self"    If  E  owns  a  field  adjoining  A's  field  from  east  to  west,  and   B's  from 


SYNOPSIS    OF   SUBJECTS.  xi 

north  to  south,  and  he  comes  to  sell  it,  etc.  If  A  and  B  were  partners  in  a 
field,  and  A  sold  his  share  to  C.  If  one  sold  a  house  with  the  stipulation 
that  the  upper  diata  (chamber)  was  reserved  for  him.  If  one  has  sold  the 
house  to  one  man  and  the  diceta  to  another.  Title  is  not  given  to  a  well, 
although  there  is  mentioned  that  one  sold  the  depth  and  the  height.  The 
difference  between  a  sale  and  a  gift.  If  one  sold  a  house,  he  sold  with  it  the 
door,  the  bolt  and  lock,  but  not  the  key.  If  one  sold  a  yard,  the  houses, 
walls,  cellars,  and  caves  are  included,  but  not  movable  property.  If  one 
sells  a  press-house,  the  sale  includes  the  trough,  the  press-beam  or  press- 
stone,  etc 147-158 

MiSHNAS  VI.  TO  IX.  If  one  sells  a  bath-house  the  sale  does  not  include 
the  boards  on  the  floor.  If  one  sells  a  town,  the  sale  includes  houses,  etc.,  but 
not  movable  property.  If  one  sells  a  field,  the  sale  includes  the  stones  which 
are  needed  for  its  use.  From  the  passage.  Gen.  xxxiii.  17,  we  infer  that  the 
boundary  is  sold  to  the  buyer  with  the  field  biblically.  A  depositary  who 
claims  that  he  had  returned  the  bailment,  etc.  In  selling  a  field,  if  it  con- 
tains a  well,  cistern,  etc.,  they  are  not  included  in  the  sale         .         158-166 

CHAPTER  V. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  V.  How  should  one  acquire  title  to  a  boat  ?  To  a  prom- 
issory note  title  is  given  by  transfer  and  bill  of  sale  :  acquire  title  to  it  and  to 
all  the  debts  it  contains  is  traditional  and  also  according  to  common  sense. 
A  bill  of  sale  to  a  wagon  does  not  include  the  mules  when  not  hitched,  and 
vice  versa.  May  the  amount  paid  serve  as  evidence  ?  If  one  sells  an  ass, 
the  harness  is  not  included.  The  khumni  is  not  included  in  the  harness. 
What  does  khumni  mean  ?  If  one  sold  a  she-ass,  its  foal  is  sold  ;  but  if  a 
cow,  the  calf  is  not.  If  one  buys  the  brood  of  a  pigeon-coop  ;  of  a  bee-hive. 
If  one  buys  a  tree  for  cutting  it  down,  he  must  begin  a  span  high  from  the 
ground  ;  an  inoculated  sycamore,  three  spans  ;  a  trunk  of  sycamores,  two. 
If  exactly  three  spans,  it  is  beneficial  for  the  growth  of  the  tree,  etc.,  167-175 

MiSHNAS  VI.  TO  IX.  If  one  buy  two  trees  within  his  neighbor's  field,  the 
ground  beneath  is  not  sold  ;  if  three,  it  is.  Concerning  the  firstfruit  offer- 
ings. If  the  branches  were  wide-spreading.  How  much  space  is  to  be  left 
between  the  trees  in  question,  that  it  should  be  considered  the  buyer's  ?  A 
practised  act  is  more  important  for  evidence.  How  should  the  ground  be- 
longing to  the  buyer  be  measured  ?  If  one  has  sold  two  trees  situated  in 
his  field  and  one  on  the  boundary.  There  are  four  legal  customs  concerning 
sales.  If  one  sold  dark-red  wheat  and  it  was  found  to  be  white,  or  vice  versa, 
etc.  By  what  acts  is  title  given  to  fruit  and  to  flax  ?  The  vessels  of  the 
buyer  give  title  to  him  in  every  place,  except  on  public  ground.  There  are 
four  legal  customs  concerning  sellers,  etc.  To  real  estate  title  is  acquired 
by  money,  deed,  or  hazakah  ;  and  to  personal  property  title  is  given  by 
drawing  only.  To  a  thing  which  is  usually  lifted  up,  title  is  given  by  lifting  ; 
and  usually  drawn,  by  drawing.  If  one  hires  a  servant  to  work  for  him  in 
the  barn  for  one  dinar  a  day,  with  the  stipulation  that  he  shall  work  for  him 
for  the  same  price  in  the  harvest-time.  If  one  sold  wine  or  oil,  and  it  be- 
comes dearer  or  cheaper,       175-190 

MiSHNAS  X.  AND  XI.  If  one  sends  his  little  son  to  the  storekeeper  with  a 
pundiun  (dupondius),  but  the  child  loses  the  issar  and  breaks  the  glass.     I^ 


Tcii  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

one  take  a  vessel  from  a  specialist,  to  examine  it,  he  is  responsible  for  an  ac 
cident.  The  wholesaler  has  to  clean  his  measures  once  within  thirty  days. 
Must  overweight  be  given,  and  how  much  ?  The  punishment  for  false  meas- 
uring is  harder  than  for  adultery.  It  is  harder  for  the  cheating  of  a  com- 
moner than  for  the  cheating  of  the  sanctuary.  The  scales  must  be  hanging 
three  spans  in  the  air,  etc.  Weights  must  not  be  made  of  tin,  lead,  cassit- 
erite,  or  other  kinds  of  metal.  One  must  not  keep  in  his  house  an  unjust 
measure,  even  if  he  uses  it  for  a  chamber.  If  the  elders  of  the  city  want  to 
enlarge  the  measures,  it  must  not  be  more  than  a  sixth  of  them.  From  the 
verse  Ezek.  xlv.  12  may  be  inferred  three  things,  etc.  "Those  who  forestall 
fruit,"  etc. — who  are  meant  thereby  ?  There  must  not  be  exported  from  Pal- 
estine things  by  which  a  livelihood  is  made.  It  may  be  prayed  by  blowing 
of  horns  even  on  Sabbath,  when  business  becomes  dull.  One  must  not  emi- 
grate from  Palestine  to  other  provices,  unless  the  price  of  grain  has  increased, 
etc.  "  When  Abraham  our  father  departed  from  this  world,  all  the  great 
men  of  the  nations  stood  up  in  a  file  and  said,"  etc.  "I  remember  when  a 
child  used  to  break  a  piece  of  carob,  threads  of  honey  would  leak  out,"  etc., 

190-203 

Hagadah. 

The  well-known  legends  of  Rabba  b.  b.  Hana  :  Waves,  Hurnim  ben 
Lilith,  roebuck  of  one  day,  alligator.  The  fish  which  destroyed  sixty  cities. 
The  fish  with  two  fins.  About  the  leviathan,  male  and  female.  The  ban- 
quet of  the  upright  in  the  world  to  come.  The  bird  with  her  head  in  the 
sky.  The  geese  from  which  a  whole  river  of  fat  was  running.  The  Arabian 
merchant  who  accompanied  Rabba  in  the  desert,  and  showed  him  the  dead 
of  the  desert  at  the  time  of  Moses.  The  place  where  Korach  with  his  com- 
pany was  swallowed  up,  where  the  earth  and  the  sky  meet,  etc.  What  R. 
Johanan  has  to  tell.  Jehudah  of  Mesopotamia.  What  happened  with  Elie- 
zer  and  Jehoshua  while  on  the  ship.  What  Huna  b.  Nathan  told.  The 
canopies  {chupas)  for  each  upright  in  the  world  to  come.  The  ten  ckupas 
made  for  Adam  the  first  in  paradise.  About  Hiram  the  King  of  Tyre  who 
claimed  to  be  a  God.    The  increase  of  Jerusalem  in  the  future,    .     203-213 

Appendix. 
Usucapio  in  the  Roman  Law  ....<..        ST4 


TRACT   BAB  A   BATHRA   (LAST 
GATE). 


CHAPTER    I. 

RULES  AND  REGULATIONS  CONCERNING  HOUSES,  YARDS,  AND  FIELDS 
IN  PARTNERSHIP  OR  CONJOINTLY;  THE  SHARING  IN  PARTITIONS, 
FENCES,  AND  WALLS;  LOOKING  INTO  OTHERS'  PROPERTY;  CLAIMS 
PAID  BEFORE  DUE;  DUTIES  OF  ONE  TO  HIS  CITY — STREETS,  ETC.; 
CITIZENSHIP  BY  LAPSE  OF  TIME,  AND  CONCERNING  THE  SIZE  OF 
A    YARD    LIABLE    TO    DIVISION. 

MISHNA  /. :  Partners  in  a  courtyard  surrounded  by  two 
houses,  each  of  them  belonging  to  one  of  the  partners,  one  of 
whom  (or  both)  may  desire  to  make  a  Me'hitza  (partition)  in 
the  yard,  the  wall  is  to  be  built  in  the  middle  exactly.  The 
material  for  it  and  all  other  things  must  be  as  is  customary  in 
the  country;  viz.:  in  the  case  of  unhewn  stones  (of  which  the 
thickness  is  usually  six  spans)  each  of  them  has  to  give  his  share 
of  space  and  material  for  three  spans ;  in  the  case  of  hewn  stones, 
for  two  and  a  half;  in  the  case  of  half-bricks,  between  which  are 
usually  inserted  sand  and  small  stones,  for  two ;  and  in  the  case 
of  whole  bricks,  one  and  a  half  spans  from  each  sufSce.  There- 
fore, when  it  happens  that  such  a  wall  falls,  the  space  and  mate- 
rial of  it  belong  to  both  equally.  The  same  is  the  case  with  a 
garden  in  places  where  they  are  usually  fenced :  if  one  of  the 
partners  desires  to  construct  a  fence,  the  other  cannot  prevent 
him,  nor  withhold  his  share  of  the  expense.  In  valleys,  how- 
ever, in  places  where  it  is  not  usual  to  fence,  one  cannot  compel 
his  partner  to  share  with  him,  but  he  may  build  a  fence  about 
his  own  portion,  and  make  an  enclosure  on  the  outside  (as  a  sign 
that  it  belongs  to  him  only) ;  and  therefore  should  such  a  fence 
fall,  the  material  belongs  to  him  alone.  If,  however,  such  is 
built  conjointly,  it  must  be  in  the  exact  middle,  and  an  enclo- 
sure is  to  be  made  on  both  sides  (as  a  sign  that  it  was  built  con- 
jointly); and  therefore  should  it  fall,  the  space  and  material 
belong  to  both. 


2  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

GEMARA:  The  schoolmen,  in  interpreting  the  Mishna, 
were  about  to  explain  the  word  Me'hitza  as  meaning  division, 
according  to  Numbers  xxxi.  43,  where  the  word  Ma'htzis  is 
used  in  the  sense  of  divided  into  halves;  and  the  Mishna  comes 
to  teach  that  when  both  have  decided  to  divide  their  grounds,  one 
of  them  can  compel  the  other  to  join  in  building  such  a  wall,  even 
if  he  object  to  do  so,  from  which  it  is  to  be  inferred  that  looking 
into  the  other's  property  is  considered  injurious.  But  perhaps 
the  expression  Me'hitza  means  only  a  partition,  according  to 
what  we  have  learned  in  a  Tosephtha,  that  if  a  partition  (which 
divides  the  vine  from  other  kinds  of  products)  break,  the  owner 
of  the  other  products  has  to  notify  the  owner  of  the  vineyard 
twice  that  he  should  fence  it,  and  if  he  does  not  do  so,  the 
products  are  prohibited  and  the  owner  of  the  vineyard  is  re- 
sponsible. And  as  in  this  Tosephtha  the  word  Me'hitza  is  used 
with  the  meaning  of  a  fence,  so  it  may  be  that  in  our  Mishna 
also  it  means  a  fence.  And  the  Mishna  teaches  that  if  both 
have  decided  to  build  a  fence,  then  each  of  them  must  join  in 
its  making,  but  not  otherwise.  From  which  it  is  to  be  inferred 
that  looking  into  another's  property  is  not  considered  injurious  ? 
If  it  should  be  so,  then  why  does  the  Mishna  state  "  the  wall 
must  be,"  etc.?  It  ought  to  be,  "  it  must  be  built."  On  the 
other  hand,  if  the  Mishna  means  that  they  have  decided  to 
divide,  why  the  expression  "  Me'hitza  "  ?  It  ought  to  be  "  to 
halve,"  as  people  say:  "  Come  to  halve  our  goods  "  ;  and  also, 
if  looking  is  considered  injurious,  why  the  statement  of  the 
Mishna,  "  if  both  like  to  do  so  "  ?  Even  if  one  of  them  desires, 
his  partner  may  be  compelled  to  join  with  him,  so  as  to  prevent 
injurious  looking  in.  Said  R.  Assi  in  the  name  of  R,  Johanan: 
Our  Mishna  treats  of  a  small  yard  which  was  not  liable  to  divi- 
sion (it  did  not  contain  eight  ells),  and  then  only  when  both 
consent  to  divide  can  one  compel  his  partner,  but  not  otherwise. 
But  then  what  comes  the  Mishna  to  teach  ?  That  when  the 
yard  is  not  sufficient  for  a  division,  and  both  wish  to  do  so,  they 
may  ?  Is  it  not  taught  plainly  farther  on  ?  From  that  teaching 
one  may  say  that  he  can  compel  him  only  to  join  in  erecting 
a  border-mark,  but  not  a  wall.  It  comes  to  teach  us  that  the 
same  is  the  case  even  with  a  wall.  But  if  so,  why  the  other 
statement  of  a  border-mark  ?  There  it  is  needed  because  of  the 
last  part  of  the  Mishna,  which  teaches  that  with  the  Holy  Writ 
it  is  different:  it  is  not  allowed  to  be  divided,  even  if  both  con- 
sent to  do  so.     Now,  the  Mishna  is  explained  as  treating  of 


TRACT    BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  3 

a  yard  which  is  not  sufficient  for  division.  Then  what  matters 
it — even  if  they  have  both  decided  to  divide  their  grounds,  could 
they  not  retract  ?  Said  R.  Assi  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan:  It 
treats  of  a  case  in  which  it  was  already  done  with  the  ceremony 
of  a  sudarium.  But  even  then,  what  matters  it  ?  After  all,  it 
was  decided  only  verbally,  and  they  may  retract  ?  It  speaks  of 
a  case  in  which  the  parts  of  each  were  already  marked  off.  R. 
Ashi,  however,  said :  It  speaks  of  a  case  in  which  each  of  them 
has  already  made  a  hazakha  (settlement)  on  his  part,  so  that 
they  have  acquired  title  and  can  no  more  retract.  (The  expres- 
sion in  the  Mishna  for  half-bricks  is  khphisin.)  Said  R.  A'ha 
b.  R.  Ivia  to  R.  Ashi :  Whence  do  we  know  that  this  expres- 
sion means  half-bricks  and  the  additional  span  is  for  the  stuff 
which  is  put  between  them  ?  Perhaps  it  means  unhewn  stones, 
and  this  additional  span  is  for  the  projecting  corner.  And  he 
answered :  The  meaning  of  the  words  of  the  Mishna  is  tradition- 
ally so  explained. 

Said  Abayi:  A  span  is  needed  only  when,  between  the  half- 
bricks,  small  stones  and  sand  are  put,  but  if  only  clay,  a  span  is 
not  needed.  Shall  we  assume  that  a  wall,  four  ells  in  height, 
of  hewn  stones  needs  the  thickness  of  five  spans  ?  Was  not  the 
height  of  the  walls  of  the  first  Temple  thirty  ells,  and  the  thick- 
ness only  six  spans,  and  it  nevertheless  held  ?  The  additional 
span  sustained  it.  Why,  then,  did  they  make  the  walls  of  the 
second  Temple  still  thicker  ?  Because  a  thickness  of  six  spans 
can  sustain  only  a  height  of  thirty  ells,  but  not  a  greater  one, 
and  the  second  Temple  was  much  higher.  And  whence  do  we 
deduce  it  ?  From  [Haggai,  ii.  9] :  "  Greater  shall  be  the  glory 
of  this  latter  house  than  that  of  the  former."  Rabh  and  Sam- 
uel, and  according  to  others  R.  Johanan  and  R.  Elazar,  differ 
in  the  explanation  of  this  verse  According  to  one,  it  means 
the  building  itself;  and  according  to  the  other,  it  means  the 
years  of  its  existence.  In  reality,  however,  it  was  in  both 
respects  more  glorious. 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question:  Does  the  Mishna 
mean,  by  giving  the  sizes,  with  the  lime,  or  without  ?  Said  R. 
Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak:  Common  sense  dictates  that  it  means  with 
the  lime;  for  without  the  lime  the  sizes  mentioned  in  the  Mishna 
would  not  be  correct  (since  without  the  lime  it  would  not  hold, 
and  the  lime,  of  course,  enlarges  the  size).  But  can  it  not  be 
said  that  it  means  without  the  lime,  and  because  the  size  of  the 
Kme  does  not  reach  a  span,  therefore  the  Mishna  does  not  count 


4  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

it  ?  But  does  not  the  Mishna  state  a  span  and  a  half  ?  It  may 
be  said  that,  because  the  two  halves  make  a  span,  therefore  it 
is  counted.  Come  and  hear!  (Erubin,  p.  28:)  "  The  cross-beam 
in  question  must  be  wide  enough  to  hold  a  half  of  a  brick,  which 
is  three  spans  in  length  and  in  width."  There  it  treats  of  a 
great  one,  and  it  seems  to  be  so,  as  it  says:  "  A  half  of  a  brick, 
three  spans,"  etc.,  from  which  it  is  to  be  inferred  that  there  is 
a  smaller  half-brick  which  is  not  of  the  size  mentioned,  and  this 
is  the  size  in  our  Mishna,  where  both  half-bricks  together  mea- 
sure only  three  spans  with  the  lime.  R.  Hisda  said:  One  must 
not  take  apart  a  prayer-house  until  another  one  is  built;  accord- 
ing to  some,  because  it  may  be  neglected  by  accident,  and 
according  to  others,  because  until  the  new  one  be  built  there 
they  will  have  no  place  for  prayer.  And  the  difference  is  that, 
when  there  is  another  place  for  prayer,  according  to  the  latter  it 
may  be  done. 

Maremar  and  Mar  Zutra  used  to  take  apart  the  summer 
house  of  prayer  in  the  winter,  and  the  winter  house  of  prayer 
in  the  summer.  Said  Rabhina  to  R.  Ashi :  How  is  it  ?  When 
the  money  for  the  new  building  has  already  been  collected  by 
the  treasurer,  may  the  old  be  taken  apart,  or  not  ?  And  he 
answered :  Even  then  a  redeeming  of  prisoners  may  happen,  for 
which  the  sum  might  be  used.  But  how  is  it  if  the  whole  mate- 
rial for  the  new  building  was  already  prepared  ?  And  he  re- 
joined: Even  then  the  above  case  can  happen,  and  the  material 
would  be  sold  out  for  this  purpose.  If  so,  then  even  when  it 
is  already  built  ?  And  he  replied:  A  completed  building  it  is 
not  customary  to  sell  for  such  a  purpose.  And  this  was  all  said 
in  case  no  sign  of  ruin  was  seen  in  the  old  building;  but  if  there 
were  such,  it  might  be  taken  apart  immediately.  R.  Ashi,  for 
example,  saw  such  in  the  prayer-house  at  Sura,  and  took  it 
apart  and  placed  his  bed  there,  and  did  not  take  it  out  until  the 
whole  building  was  ready.  It  is  said  farther  on  that  Baba  b. 
Buta  advised  Herod  to  take  apart  the  old  Temple  for  the  pur- 
pose of  building  a  new  one.  V/as  this  not  against  the  law,  as 
declared  above  by  R.  Hisda:  "  One  must  not  take  apart,"  etc.? 
If  you  wish,  you  may  say  he  saw  a  sign  of  ruin  in  the  old  one; 
and  if  you  wish,  it  may  be  said  it  is  difTerent  with  a  king,  who 
usually  does  not  retract  from  his  word,  as,  e.g.,  Samuel  said, 
that  if  the  king  should  say,  "  I  will  remove  this  great  moun- 
tain," it  would  be  done. 

Herod  was  a  servant  of  the   Hasmoneans,  and  there  was  a 


TRACT    BABA   BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  5 

little  girl  among  them  upon  whom  he  cast  his  eyes.  One  day- 
he  heard  a  voice  saying  that  a  servant  who  should  rebel  that 
day  would  succeed.  Then  he  slew  all  his  superiors  except  this 
little  girl ;  and  when  she  saw  that  he  intended  to  marry  her,  she 
ascended  to  the  roof  and  proclaimed:  "If  it  happen  that  one 
shall  claim  himself  descended  from  the  Hasmoneans,  be  it 
known  that  he  is  a  slave,  for  all  the  Hasmoneans  were  slain 
except  myself,  and  I  now  commit  suicide  by  throwing  myself 
from  this  roof."  Said  Herod  to  himself:  Who  insists  upon 
what  is  written  [Deut.  xvii.  15] :  "  From  the  midst  of  thy  breth- 
ren shalt  thou  set  a  king,"  etc.?  The  rabbis,  as  the  leaders  of 
Israel.  He  therefore  slew  all  the  rabbis,  and  left  only  Baba  b. 
Buta,  to  take  advice  from  him  when  needed ;  but  he  blinded 
him.  One  day  Herod  came  (incognito)  and  sat  before  him,  say- 
ing: "  Let  the  master  see  what  the  bad  slave  Herod  has  done." 
And  he  answered:  "  What  can  I  do  to  him  ?"  And  he  said: 
"  Curse  him."  But  Baba  answered  with  the  verse  [Eccl.  x.  20]  : 
"  Even  in  thy  thoughts,  thou  must  not  curse  a  king."  Herod 
said:  "But  he  is  not  a  king  at  all."  And  Baba  answered: 
"  Let  him  be  only  rich,  it  is  written  [ibid.,  ibid.]:  '  In  thy  bed 
chambers,  do  not  curse  the  rich.'  And  even  if  he  be  only  a 
ruler,  it  is  written  [Ex.  xxii.  27]:  'A  ruler  among  thy  people, 
thou  shalt  not  curse.'  "  And  Herod  said:  "  This  is  only  when 
he  does  as  the  people  of  Israel  do;  but  he,  Herod,  does  the 
contrary."  And  he  rejoined:  "  I  am  afraid  of  him."  Herod 
continued:  "  But  there  is  no  one  who  could  tell  him,  as  only 
you  and  I  are  here."  And  Baba  rejoined  with  the  above-cited 
verse:  "  For  a  bird  of  the  air  can  carry  the  sound,"  etc.  Then 
rejoined  Herod:  "I  am  Herod,  and  did  not  know  that  the 
rabbis  were  so  careful.  Had  I  been  aware  of  this,  I  should  not 
have  slain  them;  but  now  I  crave  your  advice;  perhaps  as  to 
that  you  will  find  some  remedy  for  me."  And  Baba  answered: 
"  You  have  blinded  the  eye  of  the  world,  as  it  is  written  [Num. 
XV.  24]:  '  If  through  inadvertence  of  the  congregation.'*  Go, 
therefore,  and  occupy  thyself  with  the  eye  of  the  world,  which 
is  now  the  Temple,  as  it  is  written  [Ezek.  xxiv.  21]:  'I  will 
profane  my  sanctuary  ...  the  desire f  of  your  eyes,' and 
so  I  advise  you  to  rebuild  the  Temple." 


*  The  Hebrew  expression  is,  "  Me'ainai  hoaida,"  literally,  "from  the  eyes  ol 
the  congregation  "  ;  hence  the  leaders  are  called  the  eyes  of  the  congregation. 

t  The  expression  in  Hebrew  is  "  Ma'hmad  Ainechem,"  literally,  the  delight  of 
your  eyes. 


6  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

And  Herod  said:  "  I  fear  the  Roman  government."  Re- 
joined Baba:  "  Send  a  messenger  to  Rome,  for  whicii  it  shall 
take  a  year  until  he  shall  reach  there,  and  let  him  remain  there 
a  year,  and  his  returning  shall  also  take  a  year,  and  during  the 
three  years  you  can  take  apart  this  Temple  and  build  a  new 
one."  Herod  did  so,  and  the  answer  was:  "  If  you  have  not 
as  yet  taken  apart  the  old  one,  let  it  remain  so;  if  you  have 
already  taken  it  apart,  do  not  build  a  new  one;  and  if  you  have 
already  taken  apart  and  also  rebuilt,  such  is  the  custom  of  bad 
slaves :  they  seek  advice  after  the  thing  is  already  done.  It  is 
true,  you  are  now  the  ruler.  Your  record,  however,  is  in  our 
archives,  in  which  it  can  be  seen  that  you  are  not  a  king,  nor 
a  descendant  of  kings.  It  is  only  marked,  *  Herod,  the  servant, 
has  made  himself  free.'  "  It  was  said  that  he  who  had  not  seen 
the  new  Temple  of  Herod  had  not,  in  all  his  life,  seen  a  fine 
building.  "  With  what  material  did  he  build  it  ?  "  asked  Rabha. 
With  ornamented  marble  stone  of  different  colors,  the  stones 
being  not  in  a  straight  line,  but  alternately  projecting  and  reced- 
ing, the  gaps  being  intended  to  receive  the  lime.  He  intended 
to  cover  it  with  gold,  but  the  rabbis  advised  him  not  to  do  so, 
because  as  it  was  it  looked  as  effulgent  as  the  waves  of  the  sea. 

But  why  did  Baba  give  Herod  such  advice  ?  Did  not  R. 
Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh,  or  in  the  name  of  Jehoshua  b. 
Levi,  say  that  Daniel  was  punished  for  giving  good  advice  to 
Nebuchadnezzar,  as  it  is  written  [Dan.  iv.  24]:  "  Therefore, 
O  king,  let  my  counsel  be  agreeable  unto  thee,  and  atone  for 
thy  sins  by  righteousness,"  etc.?  With  the  Temple  it  was  dif- 
ferent, for  except  by  the  king,  it  could  not  be  rebuilt  at  all. 
And  whence  do  we  know  that  Daniel  was  punished  ?  He  was 
thrown  into  the  lions'  den  [ibid.  vi.]. 

''  And  all  other  things,''  etc.  What  does  the  expression  a// 
add  ?  Those  places  where  it  is  customary  to  make  such  a  par- 
tition of  thorns. 

"  Therefore,  if  it  happens  that  such  a  ivall  fall,'"  etc.  Is  this 
not  self-evident  ?  It  means  that,  should  the  wall  fall  into  the 
part  of  one  of  them,  or  if,  in  the  building  thereof,  one  of  the 
partners  should  build  it  all  on  his  part,  lest  one  say  that  then 
the  other  partner  should  be  considered  as  a  plaintiff  for  whom 
it  is  to  bring  evidence,  it  comes  to  teach  us  that  this  is  not  so. 

The  same  is  the  case  with  a  garden,''  etc.  Does  not  this 
paragraph  contradict  itself  ?  It  states:  "  The  same  is  the  case, 
etc.,  where  it  is  customary  to  make  a  fence";  from  which  it  is 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  7 

to  be  inferred  that  if  it  was  not  customary,  one  cannot  compel 
another  to  join.  Then  how  is  to  be  understood  the  last  part, 
which  states:  "  In  a  valley,  etc.,  where  it  is  not  customary  to 
make  a  fence,"  etc, ;  from  which  it  is  to  be  inferred  that  if  there 
be  no  such  custom  at  all,  he  may  be  compelled  to  join  ?  And 
this  is  contradictory,  since  even  concerning  a  garden,  where 
there  was  no  such  custom  at  all,  he  is  not  to  be  compelled.  So 
much  the  less  in  a  valley,  where  there  is  no  such  custom  ?  Said 
Abayi:  It  means  to  say  thus:  In  a  garden,  even  where  it  was 
not  the  custom,  and  in  a  valley,  where  it  was  the  custom,  to 
make  a  fence,  the  partner  may  be  compelled  to  join.  Said 
Rabha  to  him:  If  it  is  so,  to  what  purpose  is  it  stated  "  how- 
rver/'  "  Therefore,"  said  he,  "  it  means  thus:  concerning  a 
garden,  where  there  is  no  custom  at  all,  it  must  be  considered 
as  if  it  were  customary  to  make  a  fence ;  however,  in  a  valley, 
where  it  is  not  the  custom,  it  is  to  be  considered  as  though  the 
■custom  were  not  to  fence.  Therefore  in  the  first  case  he  is  to 
be  compelled  to  join,  and  in  the  second  he  is  not," 

"  But  one  may  p2it  the  fence  in  the  space  of  his  own  part,''  etc. 
How  shall  the  enclosure  be  put  ?  Said  R.  Huna:  It  shall  be 
inclined  toward  the  inside.  Why  not  toward  the  outside  ?  Be- 
cause then  the  partner  could  cut  it  off  and  claim  that  the  wall 
was  built  conjointly.  But  can  the  same  not  be  done  even  when 
it  inclines  toward  the  inside  ?  The  joining  (to  the  fence)  would 
be  recognized.  But  does  not  the  Mishna  state  plainly,  "  out- 
side*'>     The  objection  remains. 

R.  Johanan,  however,  said  that  the  Mishna  means  not  ex- 
actly an  enclosure,  but  a  sign  smeared  with  clay,  the  extent  of 
an  ell,  outside.  And  why  not  inside  ?  Because  then  the  part- 
ner could  mark  such  outside,  to  claim  that  it  was  done  by  both. 
But  even  now,  the  partner  can  scrape  it  off  for  the  purpose  of 
making  such  a  claim  ?  Scraping  can  be  recognized  (as  artificial). 
If,  however,  the  partition  were  made  of  thorns,  there  can  be  no 
remedy  with  a  sign,  unless  one  writes  it  on  a  note  and  puts  it 
for  safekeeping  in  the  court.*     So  Abayi  maintains. 

"  If,  hozvever,  such  zuas  built  co?ijointly,''  etc.  Said  Rabha  ox 
Pharziqa  to  R,  Ashi :  Why,  then,  the  enclosure  at  all?     And 

*  In  the  text  it  reads  that  R.  Na'hman  said  there  can  be  made  a  sign  by  Sinnphi 
Irikhi.  Luria  corrected  it  to  read  Ribhi  instead  of  Irikhi,  but  failed  to  give  any 
explanation.  The  explanation  of  Rashi  is  so  complicated  that  we  cannot  understand 
it.  Ashri,  however,  and  Rabono  Gershon  omit  all  this,  and  we  therefore  have  fol- 
lowed their  example. 


8  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

he  answered :  The  Mishna  treats  of  a  case  in  which  one  has 
already  made  such  an  enclosure  on  one  side;  the  other  should 
follow  him  on  the  other  side,  as  a  sign  that  the  wall  belongs  to 
both.  And  he  asked :  Does  the  Mishna  teach  a  remedy  against 
a  swindler  ?  And  R.  Ashi  rejoined :  Is  not  the  first  part,  which 
states  that  an  enclosure  should  be  made  (inside  or  outside),  a 
remedy  against  a  swindler?  To  which  he  answered:  The  first 
part  teaches  a  law,  and  by  the  way  gives  also  the  advice  which 
should  be  the  remedy  against  a  swindler;  but  in  the  last  part  it 
does  not  teach  a  new  law  at  all,  as  it  is  self-evident  that  when 
they  have  joined  in  the  wall  the  material  belongs  to  both  (and 
the  new  teaching  is  only  the  remedy  against  a  swindler)  ?  Said 
Rabhina:  The  last  part  treats  of  a  case  in  which  the  wall  was 
made  of  thorns,  and  comes  to  teach  that  it  is  not  as  Abayi  said 
above,  that  there  is  no  remedy  except  by  a  note,  etc.  ;  but  that 
if  the  enclosures  are  made  on  both  sides  it  suf^ces. 

MISHNA  //.  :  If  one's  estates  surround  those  of  his 
neighbor  on  three  sides,  and  he  has  fenced  all  the  three  sides, 
the  neighbor  is  not  to  be  compelled  to  join  in  the  expense  (so 
long  as  it  is  open  on  the  fourth  side).  Said  R.  Jose:  If  the 
neighbor  fenced  the  fourth  side  of  his  field,  then  he  must  join 
in  the  expense  of  all  the  fences. 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  The 
Halakha  prevails  in  accordance  with  R.  Jose.  And  there  is  no 
difference  whether  the  fourth  fence  was  built  by  the  surrounder 
or  by  the  surrounded  (as  in  either  case  his  [the  neighbor's]  field 
is  now  protected).  It  was  taught:  R.  Huna  said:  He  must 
take  an  equal  share  in  all  the  expense,  and  Hyya  b.  Rabh 
maintains  that  he  has  only  to  pay  for  the  cheapest  fence-rails. 
An  objection  was  raised  from  our  Mishna,  which  states  that 
when  he  has  fenced  all  three  sides  the  neighbor  is  not  to  be 
compelled;  from  which  it  is  to  be  understood  that  if  he  has 
fenced  the  fourth  side  also,  then  the  neighbor  must  join.  Then 
the  decision  of  R.  Jose,  who  said  that  when  the  fourth  was 
fenced  he  must  join  in  the  expense  of  all  the  fences,  is  to  be 
understood  that  he  differs  with  the  first  Tana  in  that,  according 
to  him,  he  must  share  all  the  expense  equally,  while  according 
to  the  first  Tana  he  must  pay  only  for  cheap  fence-rails.  And 
this  explanation  can  be  correct  only  in  accordance  with  R. 
Huna.  But  according  to  Hyya,  who  said  that  all  of  them  treat 
only  about  the  payment  for  cheap  fence-rails,  what,  then,  would 
be  the  point  of  difference  between  the  first  Tana  and  R.  Jose  ? 


TRACT    BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  9 

It  is  to  be  explained  as  to  the  surrounder  and  the  surrounded. 
According  to  the  first  Tana,  even  when  the  surrounder  has 
fenced  the  fourth  side,  the  surrounded  has  to  pay,  for  the  reason 
stated  above;  and  according  to  R.  Jose,  only  when  the  sur- 
rounded himself  has  fenced  the  fourth  side,  from  which  we  see 
that  the  other  fences  pleased  him ;  but  if  the  surrounder  did  so, 
the  surrounded  has  nothing  to  pay. 

Runya's  estate  was  surrounded  by  that  of  Rabhina  on  all 
four  sides.  And  when  he  asked  him  to  join  in  the  expense  of 
fencing,  he  would  not  listen.  "  Join  at  least  in  the  expense  for 
cheap  fence-rails."  He  would  not  listen.  "  Give  something 
for  the  protection  of  your  estate";  and  he  would  not.  One 
day  Runya  was  engaged  in  gathering  dates  from  his  trees,  and 
Rabhina  said  to  his  gardener:  "  Go  and  fetch  one  bunch  of 
dates,"  And  Runya  rebuked  him.  Then  said  Rabhina  to  him: 
"  Now  your  intention  that  your  trees  should  be  protected,  if  not 
from  thieves,  at  least  from  goats,  is  clear."  And  he  answered : 
"  Goats  can  be  prevented  by  the  voice."  And  Rabhina  re- 
joined: "  But  even  then  you  must  have  a  man  who  shall  lift  up 
his  voice."  Finally  Runya  came  before  Rabha,  who  told  him 
that  he  should  go  and  settle  with  Rabhina  as  well  as  he  could, 
as  otherwise  he  would  decide  in  accordance  with  R.  Jose  as 
explained  by  R.  Huna. 

The  same  Runya  bought  a  field  which  was  attached  to  one 
of  Rabhina's,  and  the  latter  was  about  to  prevent  him,  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  law  of  preemption.  Said  R.  Saphra  b. 
R.  leba  to  Rabhina:  "  People  say,  Zala,  who  is  poor,  needed 
for  his  family  as  much  bread  as  Zalla  the  rich.  Permit 
then  the  poor  Runya,  who  has  already  one  estate  among 
your  estates,  to  have  another  one,  so  that  he  can  make  a 
living." 

MISHNA  ///. :  If  a  wall  which  separated  courtyards  falls, 
the  owners  of  both  sides  have  to  join  in  rebuilding  it  (to  the 
height  of  four  ells).  If  there  is  a  wall,  and  one  of  the  owners 
claims  that  his  neighbor  did  not  bear  his  share  of  the  expense 
in  building  it  up  to  the  height  of  four  ells,  he  is  not  to  be 
trusted  unless  he  brings  evidence  (as  it  is  considered  that  his 
neighbor  did  so  at  the  time  it  was  built).  Above  four  ells,  one 
cannot  compel  his.  neighbor  to  join  with  him.  If  there  were 
a  wall  above  that  height,  and  the  neighbor  built  another  one 
near  it  to  the  same  height,  with  the  intention  of  roofing,  he  has 
to  share  in  the  expense,  even  before  roofing;  and  if  he  claims 


lo  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

that  he  has  already  joined  in  the  expense,  he  is  not  to  be  trusted 
unless  he  brings  evidence. 

GEMARA:  Said  Resh  Lakish:  "A  debtor  who  says:  'I 
paid  my  debt  to  the  creditor,  when  the  time  had  not  yet 
elapsed,'  is  not  to  be  believed,  as  usually  creditors  are  glad  to 
be  paid  in  due  time." 

Abayi  and  Rabha  both  said:  It  may  happen  that  one  unex- 
pectedly got  money  and  thought,  "  I  shall  pay  my  debt  before 
it  is  due,  so  I  shall  not  be  troubled  thereafter."  An  objection 
was  raised  from  our  Mishna,  which  states  that  he  is  considered 
to  have  paid  at  the  time  it  was  built.  Now  let  us  see  how  was 
the  case.  If  the  defendant  claims  that  he  has  given  his  share 
of  the  expense  in  time,  there  is  no  reason  why  he  should  not 
be  believed »  it  must  then  be  said  that  he  claims  to  have  paid  it 
before  it  was  due,  and  nevertheless  the  Mishna  states  that  he 
is  to  be  believed  ?  The  case  of  the  Mishna  is  different,  as  with 
every  brick  or  every  piece  of  material  that  was  used  the  time 
for  payment  is  considered  due;  i.e.,  it  is  not  to  be  considered 
that  he  is  claiming  to  have  paid  before  it  was  due.  Come  and 
hear  the  other  part  of  the  Mishna  concerning  the  height  over 
four  ells,  which  is  considered  not  to  have  been  done  conjointly. 
Let  us  see  how  was  the  claim.  If  the  defendant  claims:  "  I 
have  joined  with  you  in  time,"  why  should  he  not  be  believed 
(he  is  the  defendant,  and  it  is  for  the  plaintifT  to  bring  evi- 
dence) ?  It  must  be,  then,  that  he  claims  that  he  has  joined 
before  the  time  due,  and  we  see  that  he  is  not  believed.  There 
is  another  reason  why  he  should  not  be  believed,  as  usually  one 
would  pay  no  money  before  he  is  positive  that  the  court  will 
decide  against  him.  R.  Papa  and  R.  Huna  b.  R.  Jehoshua 
acted  according  to  Abayi's  decision,  and  Rabha  b.  Mar  R.  Ashi 
acted  according  to  Resh  Lakish,  and  so  the  Halakha  prevails. 
And  even  in  the  case  of  orphans,  although  the  master  said  else- 
where that  he  who  comes  to  collect  from  the  estate  of  orphans 
cannot  do  it  without  taking  an  oath;  yet  in  our  case  the 
"  hazakha  "  rule,  that  one  does  not  pay  when  it  is  not  due,  is 
strong  enough  even  concerning  orphans. 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question:  If  the  plaintiff  de- 
manded his  money  after  the  time  has  long  elapsed,  and  the 
defendant  claim  that  he  had  paid  when  it  was  as  yet  not  due, 
shall  we  say  that  the  above  standing  rule,  that  one  does  not  pay 
before  due,  denies  the  theory  of  giving  consideration  to  a  claim 
which  appears  trustworthy,  for  the  reason  that,  why  should  he 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  ii 

tell  a  lie  which  only  injures  him,  as,  e.g.,  the  defendant  could 
say:  "I  have  paid  in  time"  (and  then  it  would  be  for  the 
plaintiff  to  bring  evidence),  while  claiming  "  I  have  paid  before 
due,"  the  burden  of  proof  lies  upon  him,  or  perhaps  such  a 
claim  is  to  be  considered  even  with  the  standing  rule  ?  Said 
R.  A'ha  b.  Rabha  to  R.  Ashi:  Come  and  hear!  If  one  claims, 
"  I  have  a  majia  with  you,"  and  the  debtor  answers,  "  Yea"; 
on  the  morrow,  when  he  demands  his  money,  the  debtor  says, 
"  I  have  already  paid  you,"  then  he  is  free.  If,  however,  he 
says,  "  You  have  nothing  with  me,"  he  is  responsible.  Is  it 
not  to  be  assumed  that  by  the  expression,  "  I  have  paid  you," 
it  means  in  time,  and  the  expression,  "  You  have  nothing  with 
me,"  means,  "  I  have  paid  you  before  due  "  ?  Hence  we  see 
that  such  a  claim  is  not  considered  ?  Nay,  the  expression, 
"  You  have  nothing  with  me,"  means,  "  You  have  never  loaned 
it  to  me,"  as  the  master  says  elsewhere:  He  who  claims,  "  I 
have  never  borrowed,"  is  to  be  considered  as  if  he  should  say, 
"  I  have  never  paid." 

"  //",  however,  he  has  built  another  wall,'"  etc.  Said  R.  Huna : 
If  he  has  built  only  a  half-wall,  it  is  the  same  as  if  he  should 
build  the  whole.  And  R.  Na'hman  said:  He  has  to  join  only 
for  the  half  he  has  built,  but  not  for  what  he  has  not.  R.  Huna, 
however,  admits  that  if  the  neighbor  built  something  opposite 
the  party  wall,  the  corner  of  his  house  attaching  it  to  the  party 
wall,  then  he  has  not  to  join  in  the  expense  except  so  far  as  he 
has  built ;  and  also  R.  Na'hman  admits  that  if  he  has  prepared 
in  his  wall  a  place  for  roofing  it  (from  which  is  to  be  seen  that 
he  intends  to  continue  the  wall  and  to  roof  it),  he  must  join 
immediately.  R.  Huna  said  the  holes  in  the  wall  prepared  for 
placing  the  roofing  beams,  which  were  prepared  by  one  of  the 
partners,  do  not  support  the  claim  of  the  other  partner,  who 
says  he  has  joined  with  him  in  the  building  of  the  whole  wall 
(claiming  that  if  he  should  not  do  so  he  would  not  expend  so 
much  money  in  an  uncertainty,  perhaps  his  partner  would  not 
join  with  him  and  would  not  allow  him  to  open  windows  to  the 
side  of  his  yard),  even  when  the  jxEXadyooo  (the  holes  which 
hold  the  beams)  for  the  roofing  beams  have  already  been  placed, 
as  the  builder  may  say,  "  I  have  prepared  the  whole  thing,  with 
the  purpose  of  not  damaging  the  wall  through  making  holes  in 
it,  being  sure  that  this  would  suit  you,  and  you  will  join  in  the 
expense  afterward."  R.  Na'hman  said:  If  one  has  placed  on  his 
neighbor's  wall  little  boards  for  roofing,  it  is  not  to  be  consid- 


12  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

ered  that  the  consent  of  his  neighbor  suffices  for  roofing  it  with 
beams.  In  the  reverse  case,  however,  such  is  to  be  considered 
sufficient.  The  same  said  again:  If  the  dripping  of  water  from 
one's  roof  into  a  neighbor's  yard  take  place,  it  gives  him  a  right 
to  put  a  pipe  on  the  roof  so  that  the  water  may  run  to  one  place 
in  the  same  yard ;  and  the  same  is  the  case  in  the  reverse,  but 
not  if  the  roofing  be  of  small  branches,  so  that  it  contains  numer- 
ous interspaces,  thus  spoiling  the  earth  where  there  is  dripping 
through  the  interspaces.  R.  Joseph,  however,  maintains  that 
even  this  is  allowed,  and  so  he  acted. 

R.  Na'hman  in  the  name  of  Rabba  b.  Abuhu  said:  If  one 
let  a  chamber  of  his  house  to  his  neighbor,  and  this  was  a  house 
with  many  rooms  for  different  tenants,  the  tenant  may  use  the 
holes  which  are  in  the  wall,  the  beams  which  protrude  up  to 
four  ells  from  his  chamber;  and  if  this  was  an  upper  chamber, 
he  may  also  use  the  thickness  of  the  wall  on  the  roof,  if  cus- 
tomary to  use  same;  but  he  has  no  right  to  use  the  front  yard. 
R.  Na'hman  himself,  however,  maintains  that  he  has  a  right  to 
the  front  yard  also,  but  not  to  the  rear  yard ;  and  Rabha  main- 
tains that  he  has  a  right  in  the  rear  yard  also. 

Rabhina  said :  A  roof  which  is  made  for  shade,  if  one  has 
attached  it  to  the  wall  of  his  neighbor,  it  is  not  to  be  considered 
as  "  hazakha  "  until  the  lapse  of  thirty  days.  However,  if  there 
be  no  protest  after  thirty  days,  it  is  a  "hazakha"  (and  the 
owner  is  trusted  if  he  claim  that  he  has  done  this  with  his  neigh- 
bor's consent).  If  this,  however,  was  done  for  the  purpose  of 
a  booth  for  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles,  after  seven  days  it  is  con- 
sidered a  "hazakha."  If,  however,  one  has  attached  the  roof 
with  clay,  it  is  considered  a  "  hazakha  "  immediately  (as  this  he 
would  not  do  without  consent). 

Abayi  said:  If  there  were  two  houses  on  both  sides  of  a 
j)ublic  thoroughfare,  each  of  the  owners  has  to  make  a  parapet 
to  half  of  his  roof,  but  not  exactly  opposite  each  other  {i.e.,  one 
may  make  it  on  the  north  and  the  other  on  the  south),  and  each 
of  them  has  to  add  a  little  to  his  half  (for  the  purpose  of  pre- 
venting looking  into  his  neighbor's  property).  [Questioned  the 
Gemara:]  Why  only  on  a  public  thoroughfare — should  it  not  on 
a  private  thoroughfare  be  the  same  ?  The  law  of  a  public  thor- 
oughfare it  was  necessary  for  him  to  teach,  lest  one  say:  "  One 
may  claim  it  is  anyhow  needed  for  you  to  make  a  parapet  to 
prevent  the  people  passing  in  the  street  from  looking  into  your 
property;  therefore  make  the  whole  parapet  on  your  property. 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  13 

and  I  will  bear  half  of  the  expense."  So  he  comes  to  teach  us 
that  he  may  answer:  "  From  the  public  thoroughfare  one  can 
see  only  in  the  daytime,  but  not  at  night";  or,  "  Only  when 
I  am  standing,  but  not  when  I  sit,"  and  also,  "  When  one  likes 
to  look.  For  you,  however,  it  is  to  be  seen  in  any  circum- 
stances." The  master  said:  "  Each  of  them  has  to  make  a 
parapet  to  half  a  roof,"  etc.  Is  this  not  self-evident  ?  He 
means  to  say  that  if  one  has  already  done  his  part,  lest  one  say 
his  neighbor  has  a  right  to  say  to  him,  "  Take  from  me  the 
expense,  and  make  all  of  it  (as  it  is  too  much  trouble  for  me  to 
find  a  laborer  for  such  a  small  work;  and  if  you  had  not  done 
yours,  I  would  have  taken  laborers  to  do  the  whole  of  it  on  my 
property  and  taken  from  you  your  share  of  the  expense),"  it 
comes  to  teach  us  that  his  neighbor  may  say,  "  As  you  do  not 
wish  to  spoil  your  roof  by  the  weight  of  the  entire  parapet,  so 
I  do  not  wish  to  spoil  mine."  R.  Na'hman  in  the  name  of 
Samuel  said:  On  a  roof  which  looks  into  the  yard  of  one's 
neighbor,  he  has  to  make  a  parapet  to  the  height  of  four  ells. 
However,  between  the  roofs  he  need  not.  And  R.  Na'hman 
himself  maintains  that  four  ells  is  not  necessary,  but  a  partition 
of  ten  spans  is.  To  what  purpose  ?  If  to  prevent  looking, 
then  four  ells  are  necessary;  and  if  only  for  separation  of  the 
roofs,  in  case  one  step  beyond  his  roof,  he  should  be  accused 
of  intention  to  steal,  then  any  partitions  suffice,  and  if  to  pre- 
vent goats  or  sheep  from  straying,  a  small  partition  which  they 
cannot  jump  over  sufBces  ?  It  is  for  the  second  purpose  men- 
tioned above;  but  if  there  should  be  any  separation,  he  may 
say,  "  I  stretched  my  hand  over  to  the  neighbor's  roof  because 
I  wanted  to  measure  the  boundary  lines  on  the  roof,"  which  is 
not  likely  for  him  to  say  when  the  partition  is  of  ten  spans. 
An  objection  was  raised  from  the  following:  "  If  his  courtyard 
was  higher  than  the  roof  of  his  neighbor,  it  is  not  to  be  taken 
into  consideration."  May  we  not  assume  that  it  means  that  no 
parapet  whatever  is  needed  ?  Nay.  It  means  the  consideration 
of  a  parapet  of  four  ells,  but  one  of  ten  spans  is  required. 

It  was  taught :  If  there  were  two  courtyards,  one  upon  the 
other,  according  to  R.  Huna  the  lower  one  has  to  build  from 
his  upper  side  upwards  until  he  reaches  the  upper  one,  and  the 
higher  one  continues;  and  according  to  Ula  and  R.  Hisda  the 
higher  one  has  to  share  in  the  expense  of  the  lower  one  also ; 
and  there  is  a  Boraitha  which  supports  R.  Hisda  as  follows :  If 
there  were  two  courtyards,  one  upon  the  other,  the  upper  one 


14  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

cannot  say,  "  I  will  begin  to  build  from  my  property,"  but  he 
must  share  with  the  lower  one;  and  if,  however,  his  courtyard 
were  higher  than  the  roof  of  his  neighbor,  he  has  nothing  to  do 
with  him. 

There  were  two  tenants,  one  in  the  upper  and  one  in  the 
lower  part  of  a  house,  and  the  roof  of  the  lower  one  sank,  and 
he  called  on  the  upper  one  to  rebuild  it.  He  declined,  saying, 
"  My  residence  is  not  spoiled."  Then  the  lower  one  asked  of 
him  permission  to  rebuild  the  whole  thing  at  his  own  expense, 
but  the  upper  one  responded,  '*  I  have  no  place  in  which  to  live 
until  you  shall  have  rebuilt."  Then  he  wanted  to  hire  a  resi- 
dence for  him,  but  he  was  told,  "  I  do  not  want  to  trouble 
myself  by  removing."  And  to  the  claim  of  the  lower  one  that 
he  could  not  live  in  the  house,  he  answered,  "  Thou  canst  bow 
thy  head  when  going  out  and  coming  in."  Said  R.  Hama: 
The  upper  one's  claim  could  be  taken  into  consideration,  pro- 
vided the  roof  had  not  reached  down  to  the  height  of  ten  spans 
from  the  floor  of  the  house;  but  if  it  so  reached  down,  the  lower 
one  may  claim,  "  This  place  belongs  to  my  property,  and  it 
must  be  removed."  And  all  this  is  said  when  there  was  no  stipu- 
lation at  the  time  of  building;  but  if  there  were,  the  upper  one 
may  be  compelled  to  share  in  the  rebuilding.  But  to  what 
extent  must  it  have  sunk  that  the  lower  one  should  have  the 
right  to  rebuild  ?  Said  the  rabbis,  in' the  presence  of  Rabha,  in 
the  name  of  Mar  Sutra  b.  R.  Na'hman:  He  has  quoted  his 
father  answering  this  question,  that  if  the  height  was  less  than 
is  stated  (Chapter  VL,  Mishna  4),  the  height  should  be  the  half 
of  the  length  and  the  breadth  together.  And  Rabha  answered : 
Did  not  I  tell  you,  you  should  never  hang  a  ftixo^  (clay 
pot)  on  R.  Na'hman's  neck  ?  (It  means  that  nonsense  should 
not  be  quoted  in  his  name.)  For  I  know  R.  Na'hman's  decision 
was:  "  If  it  was  spoiled  from  the  ordinary  use  of  a  dwelling." 
However,  after  all,  to  prevent  controversy  the  law  should  state 
Bome  dimension.  Said  R.  Huna  b.  R.  Jehoshua:  If  the  height 
decreases  so  that  the  bundles  of  sticks  usually  made  in  the  city 
of  Mehusa  cannot  be  brought  in  and  be  manipulated. 

There  was  one  who  built  a  wall  against  the  window  of  his 
neighbor,  and  to  the  claim  of  his  neighbor,  "  You  darken  my 
place,"  he  answered  him,  "  I  will  close  up  at  my  expense  this 
window  and  make  you  a  new  one  above."  But  the  other  party 
refused,  saying,  "  By  doing  so  you  will  spoil  my  wall."  He 
said  then:  "  I  will  take  apart  your  wall   unto   this  place  and 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  15 

build  you  a  new  one."  The  other  rejoined:  "The  old  wall 
will  not  bear  the  new  building."  He  then  offered  to  rebuild 
the  whole  wall  from  top  to  bottom  and  to  make  him  a  new  win- 
dow, and  again  he  refused,  saying  that  one  new  wall  would  not 
correspond  with  the  three  old  ones.  Finally  the  other  party 
agreed  to  rebuild  the  whole  house,  and  still  he  refused :  "  I  have 
no  place  to  live."  And  even  then  his  neighbor  agreed  to  hire 
for  him  a  residence,  and  he  again  responded,  "  I  do  not  want 
the  trouble  of  removing."  And  R.  Hama  decided  that  the  law 
cannot  compel  him  to  comply  with  the  wish  of  his  neighbor. 
But  to  what  purpose  is  this  stated  ?  Has  not  R.  Hama  declared 
his  decision  in  the  above  case  ?  He  meant  to  say  that  even  if 
he  has  used  the  house  in  question  for  keeping  straw  and  wood 
only,  even  then  he  cannot  be  compelled. 

There  were  two  brothers  who  divided  a  bequest.  One  took 
a  palace  and  the  other  took  a  nice  garden  which  was  in  front  of 
it;  and  the  latter  built  a  wall  on  the  edge  of  the  garden,  and  to 
the  claim  of  his  brother  that  he  darkened  his  house,  he  an- 
swered, "  I  built  it  on  my  property."  And  Rabh  decided  that 
the  law  is  not  against  him.  Said  Rabhina  to  R.  Ashi:  Why 
should  this  case  differ  from  the  case  in  the  following  Boraitha: 
Two  brothers  divided  a  bequest.  One  took  a  vineyard  and  the 
other  took  a  field.  The  owner  of  the  vineyard  is  entitled  to 
four  ells  of  the  field  for  the  entering  of  animals  to  work  it  up, 
etc.,  as  it  is  considered  that  so  was  the  stipulation  at  the  time 
of  the  division.  (Hence  we  see  that  the  requirements  of  the 
vineyard  are  taken  into  consideration.  Why  should  it  not  be 
the  same  with  the  palace  of  the  above  case  ?)  And  R.  Ashi 
answered:  There  the  owner  of  the  vineyard  paid  to  his  partner 
the  difference  between  the  two  estates,  and  consequently  the 
stipulation  that  his  vineyard  should  be  worked  up  was  made. 
To  this  Rabhina  rejoined:  Do  you  mean  to  say  that  in  the  case 
of  the  palace  there  was  not  any  settlement  about  the  value  of 
the  two  parts  of  the  bequest  ?  Does  the  law  speak  of  fools  ? 
And  R.  Ashi  rejoined:  It  may  be  there  was  a  settlement,  and 
the  man  of  the  garden  took  his  share  for  the  value  of  the  build- 
ing of  the  palace,  but  they  had  not  made  any  settlement  for  the 
value  of  the  air.  But  should  there  not  be  taken  into  consider- 
ation the  rightful  claim  of  the  man  of  the  palace,  that  he  has 
paid  him  the  difference  for  a  palace,  and  then  it  was  changed 
into  a  dark  chamber  like  a  prison?  Said  R.  Shimi  b.  Ashi: 
The  name  of  the  palace  does  not  change  even  after  the  wall  is 


i6  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

built,  and  the  gratification  which  the  owner  of  the  garden  re- 
ceived was  for  the  name.  As  we  have  learned  in  the  Middle 
Tract  (p.  275),  if  one  said,  "  I  sell  you  the  estate,  which  con- 
tains a  kur  of  earth,  and  there  is  no  more  than  a  half,"  etc., 
the  sale  is  valid,  as  it  is  so  called.  But  still,  what  comparison 
is  this  ?  There  he  sold  him  a  piece  of  ground  which  was  so 
named,  and  the  buyer  is  aware  of  what  he  bought ;  but  here, 
could  not  the  man  of  the  palace  say:  "  I  have  agreed  to  this 
division  for  the  purpose  of  living  in  it  as  my  parents  did,  and 
now  it  is  darkened  "  ?  Said  both  Mar  the  Elder  and  Mar  the 
Younger,  the  sons  of  R.  Hisda,  to  R.  Ashi:  The  Sages  of 
Nahardai,  among  them  R.  Hama,  decided  according  to  their 
theory  elsewhere,  that  they  hold  with  R.  Na'hman,  who  said 
in  the  name  of  Samuel  that  brothers,  after  the  dividing  of  a 
bequest,  have  no  claim  for  a  path,  for  windows,  for  ladders,  and 
for  canals,  each  on  the  other  (as  they  ought  to  take  these  into 
consideration  when  dividing),  and  must  be  strict  on  this  law, 
as  this  was  enacted  once  for  all.  Rabha,  however,  maintains 
that  such  a  claim  is  always  to  be  taken  into  consideration. 

There  was  a  note  belonging  to  orphans,  against  which  the 
other  party  showed  a  receipt,  and  R.  Hama  decided  not  to  col- 
lect on  this  note  because  of  the  receipt,  and  not  to  destroy  it 
until  the  orphans  should  have  grown  up,  as  they  might  find 
some  evidence  against  the  receipt.  R.  A'ha  b.  Rabha  ques- 
tioned Rabhina:  How  does  the  Halakha  prevail  in  all  cases  like 
the  above-mentioned?  and  he  answered:  All  of  them  are  to  be 
practised  in  accordance  with  R.  Hama,  except  in  the  case  of 
the  receipt,  as  witnesses  should  not  be  considered  by  us  as 
liars.*  Mar  Sutra  b.  R.  Mari,  however,  said  that  even  in  the 
last  case  R.  Hama  is  right;  for,  if  the  receipt  were  genuine, 
they  would  have  made  use  of  it  while  the  creditor  was  still 
alive,  and  because  they  did  not  do  so  forgery  was  to  be  feared. 

MISHNA/F.  :  Partners  of  a  courtyard  must  share  in  the 
expense  of  building  a  gate  or  a  door  to  it,  if  one  of  them 
demands  it.  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel,  however,  says:  Not  all 
courtyards  need  a  door  (the  Gemara  will  explain  which  need 
one  and  which  do  not).  An  inhabitant  of  a  city  has  to  share  in 
the  building  of  a  wall  around  the  city,  with  the  doors  and  the 
bolts.  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel,  however,  maintains  that  not  all 
cities  need  one.     How  long  must  one  dwell  in  a  city  to  be  con- 

*  In  ancient  times  promissory  notes  were  written  mostly  by  witnesses. 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  17 

sidered  a  citizen  of  it  ?  Twelve  months.  If,  however,  he  has 
bought  a  dwelling-house  in  it,  he  is  considered  a  citizen  at  once. 

GEMARA :  Shall  we  assume  that  a  gate  to  a  courtyard  is 
considered  a  good  thing  ?  Is  it  not  a  fact  that  there  was  a  pious 
man  to  whom  Elijah  appeared  frequently,  and  after  he  had  built 
a  gate  to  his  courtyard  Elijah  did  not  speak  to  him  thereafter 
(because  this  prevented  poor  men  from  entering  for  their  needs)? 
This  presents  no  difficulty.  If  the  door  is  to  be  opened  from 
inside,  it  is  not  good ;  but  if  from  outside  (so  that  any  one  can 
open  it),  it  is  a  good  thing. 

"  Building  a  gate  or  door  to  it,''  etc.  There  is  a  Boraitha: 
R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  said  that  only  a  yard  which  is  near  the 
public  thoroughfare  needs  a  gate,  but  not  one  which  is  not  near 
to  it.  The  rabbis,  however,  maintain  that  a  courtyard  which  is 
even  far  away  from  a  public  thoroughfare  may  need  a  gate ;  for 
it  may  happen  that  people  will  pass  into  it  from  that  which  is  at 
the  thoroughfare,  and  will  cause  harm  to  the  owner's  property. 
And  also  to  a  city  which  is  far  from  the  boundary  a  surrounding 
wall  is  not  required,  according  to  R.  Simeon ;  and  the  rabbis 
maintain  that  each  of  them  may  require  one  in  war  time.  R. 
Elazar  questioned  R.  Johanan:  How  shall  such  a  tax  be  appor- 
tioned: according  to  the  number  of  souls,  or  to  the  number  of 
houses,  or  according  to  one's  wealth  ?  And  he  answered:  Ac- 
cording to  the  number  of  houses;  and  thou,  Elazar,  my  son, 
put  nails  in  this  Halakha  (that  it  never  escape  from  thy  mind). 

R.  Jehudah  the  Second  taxed  the  rabbis  for  this  purpose, 
and  Resh  Lakish  said  to  him:  The  rabbis  do  not  need  any 
guard,  as  it  is  written  [Ps.  cxxxix.  18]  :  "  Should  I  count  them," 
etc.  Count  whom — the  upright  ?  Can  they  be  more  than  the 
sands  ?  Is  it  not  written  [Gen.  xxii.  17]  that  all  Israel  is  only 
''as  the  sand"  ?  You  must  then  say  that  it  means  that  the 
acts  of  the  upright  are  more  than  the  sands,  etc.  Now,  the 
little  sands  guard  the  sea.  So  much  the  more  should  not  the 
acts  of  the  upright,  which  are  more  than  the  sands,  guard  them  ? 
R.  Na'hman  b.  R.  Hisda  taxed  the  rabbis.  Said  R.  Na'hman 
b.  Itz'hak  to  him :  By  this  act  you  have  transgressed  what  is 
written  in  the  Pentateuch,  the  Prophets,  and  the  Hagiographa. 
1\\Q  Pentateuch  [Deut.  xxxiii.  3]:  "Yea,  thou  also  lovedst  the 
tribes;  all  their  saints  were  in  thy  hand;  and  they,  prostrate 
before  thy  feet,  received  thy  words."  Thus  said  Moses  before 
the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He:  "  Lord  of  the  Universe,  even 
when  thou  lovest  the  tribes,  the  saints  of  Israel  shall  be  in  thy 


i8  THE    BABVLONlAxM    TALMUD. 

hand"  {i.e.,  they  shall  be  guarded  by  thee).  For  the  further 
explanation  of  this  verse  R.  Joseph  taught  that  it  means  the 
scholars  who  drag  their  feet  from  town  to  town  and  from  coun- 
try to  country  to  learn  the  Torah  and  to  discuss  about  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Omnipotent.  T\\q  Prophets  [Hosea,  viii.  lo]: 
"  But  even  though  they  should  spend  gifts  among  the  nations, 
now  will  I  gather  them;  and  they  shall  be  humbled  a  little 
through  the  burden  of  the  king  of  princes."  And  Ula  said: 
This  verse  was  written  in  the  Aramaic  language,  and  the  expres- 
sion Yithnu  should  be  read  Yethano,  which  means  (in  Aramaic) 
"  to  learn,"  and  it  is  to  be  interpreted  thus:  If  all  the  Israelites 
who  are  in  exile  should  occupy  themselves  with  the  study  of  the 
Torah,  the  gathering  of  them  would  be  at  hand;  but  if  only  a 
few  of  them,  they  should  be  exempt  from  the  burdens  imposed 
by  kings  or  princes.  And  the  Hagiographa  [Ezra,  vii.  24]: 
"  .  .  .  no  one  shall  be  empowered  to  impose  any  tax,  trib- 
ute, or  toll,"  etc.  And  R.  Jehudah  said:  This  means,  to  free 
the  scholars  of  the  taxes  of  the  government. 

R.  Papa  had  taxed  orphans  for  digging  a  new  well.  Said 
R.  Shesha  b.  R.  Idi  to  him:  Perhaps  no  water  will  be  found 
(and  then  the  money  of  the  orphans  would  be  taken  for  nothing, 
for  they  are  not  of  age  to  relinquish  their  property).  And  he 
answered:  I  am  taking  the  money;  if  there  should  be  water, 
I  will  use  it;  if  not,  I  will  return  it. 

Rabbi  opened  his  barns  of  grain  in  the  years  of  famine,  and 
said:  This  shall  be  for  the  use  of  them  who  have  studied  the 
Bible,  Mishna,  Gemara,  Halakha,  or  Hagada,  but  not  for  igno- 
rant men  who  have  never  desired  to  study  anything.  R.  Jona- 
than b.  Amram  entered,  and  said:  Rabbi,  feed  me.  He  asked 
him :  My  son,  hast  thou  read  the  Bible  ?  And  he  said  no. 
Hast  thou  studied  the  Mishna,  or  anything  ?  And  he  said  no. 
"  Then  why  should  I  feed  thee?"  And  he  answered:  Feed  me 
as  people  feed  a  dog  or  a  raven.  And  he  did  so.  After  he  went 
out.  Rabbi  was  sorry,  saying:  Woe  is  me!  that  I  have  given 
my  bread  to  an  ignorant  man.  Said  R.  Simeon  his  son  to  him : 
Perhaps  this  man  was  your  disciple,  Jonathan  b.  Amram,  whose 
custom  it  is  not  to  derive  any  benefit  from  his  wisdom.  It  was 
investigated,  and  they  found  that  so  it  was.  Then  said  Rabbi: 
My  barns  shall  be  open  to  every  one,  without  any  distinction. 
Rabbi's  previous  act,  however,  was  in  accordance  with  his  theory 
elsewhere,  that  chastisements  are  inflicted  upon  the  world  only 
because  of  the  ignorant  men  who  do  not  desire  to  study  anything. 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  19 

"  How  long  must  one  dwell  in  a  city,*'  etc.  There  is  a  con- 
tradiction from  the  following.  A  caravan  with  asses  or  camels, 
who  are  travelling  from  one  place  to  another,  who  took  their 
rest  in  a  city  which  was  guilty  of  idolatry,  and  the  caravan 
while  being  there  were  persuaded  and  worshipped  idols,  they 
are  to  be  stoned,  but  their  money  must  be  saved  for  their  heirs. 
If,  however,  they  were  there  thirty  days,  they  must  be  slain  by 
the  sword,  as  inhabitants  of  the  town,  and  their  money  is  to  be 
confiscated  (hence  we  see  that  thirty  days'  residence  suffices  to 
be  counted  a  citizen).  Said  Rabha:  This  presents  no  difficulty. 
To  be  counted  an  inhabitant  of  the  town,  thirty  days  suffice; 
but  to  be  a  citizen,  twelve  months  are  required.  As  we  have 
learned  in  the  following  Boraitha :  If  one  vows  that  he  shall 
derive  no  benefit  from  the  citizens  of  this  town,  he  must  not  so 
derive  from  them  who  have  resided  there  for  twelve  months; 
but  he  may  derive  benefit  from  them  who  have  resided  there 
less  than  this  time.  If,  however,  he  vows  not  to  derive  benefit 
from  the  inhabitants  of  this  city,  then  he  may  derive  from  them 
only  who  have  not  resided  as  yet  thirty  days.  But  have  we  not 
learned  in  a  Boraitha  that  a  poor  man  who  has  resided  thirty 
days  in  the  city  is  entitled  to  get  meals  from  the  kitchen  of  the 
city  charities  ?  Three  months  entitles  him  to  get  cash  for  food 
from  the  treasury  of  the  charities ;  six  months,  to  raiment ;  nine 
months,  to  burial ;  and  twelve  months,  he  must  share  in  the 
expense  of  fencing  fields  or  gardens,  which  it  was  then  custom- 
ary to  make  of  sticks  in  the  shape  of  the  Greek  letter  ^?  Said 
R.  Assi  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan:  The  statement  in  the 
Mishna,  twelve  months,  means  also  the  same. 

The  same  said  again  in  the  name  of  the  same  authority: 
Every  one,  even  orphans,  must  share  in  the  expense  of  the 
fencing,  except  rabbis. 

R.  Papa  said:  To  the  repair  of  the  wall  of  the  city,  for  buy- 
ing horses  for  the  riders  around  the  city  (for  watching  and  to 
ascertain  what  it  needs),  and  for  an  arsenal,  all,  even  orphans, 
must  contribute,  except  the  rabbis.  The  rule  for  this  is  that  to 
everything  from  which  they  derive  benefit  they  must  contribute, 
even  orphans.  Rabba  had  taxed  the  orphans  of  Mar  Mirion  for 
charity.  Said  Abayi  to  him:  Has  not  R.  Samuel  b.  Jehudah 
taught  that  orphans  must  not  be  taxed  for  charity,  even  for  the 
redeeming  of  prisoners?  and  he  answered :  I  did  so  only  to  honor 
them. 

Aiphra  Hurmiz,  the  mother  of  King  Sabur,  sent  a  purse  with 


20  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

dinars  to  R.  Joseph,  saying:  This  shall  be  used  for  the  highest 
charity.  And  he  deliberated  what  kind  of  charity  should  be 
considered  the  highest.  Said  Abayi  to  him:  As  it  is  said  above 
that  orphans  must  not  be  taxed  even  for  the  redeeming  of  pris- 
oners, it  is  to  be  inferred  that  redeeming  of  prisoners  is  consid- 
ered the  highest  charity. 

Rabha  said  to  Rabba  b.  Mari :  Wherefrom  is  the  Rabbi's 
decision  that  redeeming  of  prisoners  is  the  highest  charity  ? 
And  he  answered:  From  what  is  written  [Jer.  xv.  2] :  "  Such  as 
are  destined  to  death,  to  death ;  to  the  sword,  to  the  sword ;  to 
famine,  to  famine;  to  captivity,  to  captivity."  And  R.  Jo- 
hanan  said  all  in  this  verse  that  is  mentioned  later  is  harder 
than  what  precedes  it — as,  for  instance,  "to  be  killed  by  the 
sword"  is  harder  than  a  natural  death,  in  accordance  with  the 
verse,  as  well  as  with  common  sense.  The  verse  [Ps.  cxvi.  15]: 
"  Dear*  in  the  eyes  of  the  Lord  is  the  (natural)  death  of  the 
pious,"  accords  with  common  sense — because  from  a  natural 
death  the  corpse  remains  clean,  but  the  sword  defiles  it  with 
blood.  And  that  famine  is  worse  than  the  sword  is  also  learned 
from  the  same,  as  in  the  verse  [Lam.  iv.],  "  Happier  are  those  slain 
by  the  sword  than  those  slain  by  hunger,"  etc.,  and  common 
sense — for  the  latter  has  to  suffer  long  and  great  pain,  while  the 
former's  death  is  quick  and  sudden.  Captivity,  however,  is 
harder  than  all  of  them,  as  in  it  all  the  before-mentioned  suffer- 
ings are  endured. 

The  rabbis  taught:  Charity  must  be  collected  by  two  persons 
and  distributed  by  three.  Collected  by  two,  because  an  admin- 
istrating body  must  be  constituted  of  no  less  than  two ;  distrib- 
uted by  three,  because  it  requires  deliberation  in  judgment  (as 
to  whether  the  applicant  is  worthy  of  support,  and  to  what 
extent):  therefore  it  is  likened  unto  a  civil  case  which  requires 
a  body  of  three.  The  collecting  of  food  is  to  be  done  every 
day;  but  cash  for  the  charity  treasury,  only  on  the  eves  of  the 
Sabbaths.  Distributing  of  food  is  for  every  poor  man,  but  cash 
is  only  distributed  to  the  poor  of  the  city.  However,  the  elders 
of  the  city  have  a  right  to  exchange,  according  to  their  discre- 
tion, money  for  food,  or  food  for  money.  The  elders  of  the 
city  have  also  the  right  to  fix  the  measures,  and  the  prices  of 
victuals  and  beverages,  and  also  the  wages  of  laborers,  and 
to  fine  him  or  them  who  transgress  their  laws.     The  masters 

*  The  expression  in  Hebrew  is  Vogor,  which  has  two  meanings — "dear "and 
"  grievous"  :  the  Talmud  takes  the  former  meaning  and  Leeser  takes  the  latter. 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA    (LAST   GATE).  21 

say:  No  administrative  body  should  be  less  than  two.  Whence 
is  this  deduced?  Said  R.  Na'hman:  It  is  written  [Ex.  xxviii. 
5] :  "  And  they  shall  take  the  gold. '  *  An  administration  requires 
two ;  but  to  bestow  trust,  one  is  sufficient.  And  this  is  a  sup- 
port to  R.  Hanina,  who  said  that  it  happened  once  that  Rabbi 
appointed  two  brothers  as  treasurers  of  the  charity  (and  two 
brothers  are  considered  one  in  this  office).  But,  after  all,  what 
"administration"  is  there  in  collecting  charity?  It  is  as  R. 
Na'hman  said  in  the  name  of  Rabba  b.  Abuhu,  that  one  may 
be  pledged  for  charity  even  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath  (hence  it  is 
administration).  Is  that  so  ?  Is  it  not  written  [Jer.  xxx.  20]: 
"  I  will  punish  all  that  oppress  them"  ?  Also  R.  Itz'hak  b. 
Samuel  b.  Martha  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh  that  it  means  even 
the  collector  of  charity  ?  This  presents  no  difficulty.  If  the 
man  is  wealthy,  he  may  be  pressed  and  pledged  as  Rabha 
pressed  R.  Nathan  b.  Ammi  and  took  from  him  four  hundred 
zuz  for  charity.  But  if  he  is  not  wealthy,  then  the  one  who 
presses  him  will  be  punished.  It  is  written  [Dan.  xii.  3]:  "  And 
the  intelligent  shall  shine  brilliantly,  like  the  brilliance  of  the 
expanse."  This  means  a  judge  who  goes  into  the  depths  of  the 
law  and  tries  ever  to  decide  according  to  the  truth.  "  And  they 
that  bring  many  to  righteousness  shall  be  like  the  stars,  for  ever 
and  ever."  This  means  the  collectors  of  charity.  In  a  Bo- 
raitha,  however,  it  is  taught  that  the  first  part  of  the  verse 
quoted  means  both  the  judges  and  the  collectors,  while  the  lat- 
ter part  means  the  instructors  of  children.  Who,  for  instance, 
is  meant  ?  Said  Rabh:  "  R.  Samuel  b.  Shilath  " — whom  Rabh 
found  once  standing  in  a  garden,  and  he  said  to  him:  "  Have 
you  left  your  honorable  position  (as  I  was  told  that  you  never 
left  the  children  whom  you  are  instructing,  and  now  I  see  you 
standing  without  them)?"  The  answer  was:  "It  is  thirteen 
years  since  I  have  seen  this  part  of  my  property,  and  even  now 
my  mind  is  with  my  pupils. ' '  (But  there  are  only  mentioned  the 
judges,  collectors,  and  instructors  of  children.)  But  how  about 
the  rabbis?  Said  Rabhina:  The  verse  [Judges,  v.  31],  "But 
may  those  that  love  him  be  as  the  rising  of  the  sun  in  his 
might,"  refers  to  them. 

The  rabbis  taught :  The  collectors  of  charity  must  not  sepa- 
rate themselves  from  each  other  (while  they  are  engaged  in  col- 
lecting). However,  one  may  go  to  collect  from  the  storekeepers, 
while  the  other  does  so  from  the  keepers  of  the  stands  in  the 
market.     Should  it  happen  to  a  charity  collector  to  find  money 


22  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

in  the  streets,  he  must  not  put  it  into  his  private  purse,  but  into 
the  purse  of  the  charity,  and  when  he  shall  reach  home  then  he 
may  take  it  out.  The  same  is  the  case  if  he  meets  one  of  his 
debtors  and  he  pay  him  what  he  owes  him :  he  shall  not  put  it 
into  his  private  purse,  but  into  that  of  the  charity  (to  prevent 
suspicion),  and  when  he  comes  home  he  may  take  it  out. 

The  rabbis  taught:  The  treasures  of  charity,  if  there  be  no 
poor  among  whom  to  distribute,  they  may  exchange  the  smaller 
coins  of  the  money  collected  for  larger  ones,  but  not  from  their 
private  purse.  And  the  same  is  the  case  with  the  collectors  of 
food ;  if  there  be  no  poor,  they  may  sell  it  to  others,  but  not  to 
themselves.  The  coins  of  charity  must  not  be  counted  in  pairs, 
but  each  one  separately  (in  order  to  avoid  suspicion). 

Abayi  said:  Formerly  my  master  would  not  sit  on  the  rugs 
which  belonged  to  the  synagogue  (because  they  were  brought 
from  the  treasury  of  the  charities) ;  but  after  he  heard  that  the 
elders  of  the  city  have  the  right  to  change  the  use  of  charity 
money  as  they  see  fit,  he  sat  thereon. 

Formerly  (he  said  again),  while  being  a  treasurer,  he  used  to 
have  two  purses — one  for  poor  strangers  and  one  for  the  poor  of 
the  city;  but  when  he  heard  that  Samuel  said  to  R.  Ta'hlipha 
b.  Abdimi,  "  You  can  keep  the  money  for  charity  in  one  purse 
with  the  stipulation  that  you  may  distribute  it  to  whom  you 
find  worthy,"  he  also  kept  the  money  in  one  purse,  as  he  made 
the  same  stipulation  with  his  congregation.  R.  Ashi,  however, 
who  was  also  a  treasurer,  said:  I  need  no  stipulation  at  all,  as 
all  the  donations  are  intrusted  to  my  discretion. 

There  were  two  butchers  who  made  a  stipulation  that  each 
of  them  should  do  business  every  alternate  day,  and  he  who 
should  violate  this  agreement,  the  skins  of  his  slaughtered  cattle 
that  day  should  be  destroyed.  And  finally  one  did  business  on 
the  day  which  was  not  his,  and  the  partner  destroyed  his  skins. 
And  when  the  case  came  before  Rabha,  he  made  him  pay.  R. 
Jimar  b.  Shlamyah  objected  to  him  from  that  which  was  taught 
above,  that  they  may  fine  them  who  act  against  the  stipulation, 
and  Rabha  did  not  care  to  answer  him.  Said  R.  Papa :  He  has 
done  right  in  not  answering,  as  only  when  there  is  no  court  or 
honored  man  may  partners  make  a  stipulation  between  them- 
selves. But  if  there  be,  then  their  stipulations  are  not  to  be 
considered  when  the  court,  etc.,  has  no  knowledge  thereof. 

The  rabbis  taught:  One  must  not  examine  the  treasures  of 
charity,  and  also  not  the  treasures  of  the  sanctuary.     Although 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  23 

there  is  no  direct  support  from  the  Bible,  a  hint  of  this  is  to  be 
found  [II  Kings,  xii.  16]:  "And  they  reckoned  not  with  the 
men  into  whose  hands  they  delivered  the  money,"  etc. 

R.  Elazar  said:  It  is  advisable  for  one  to  count  his  money, 
although  he  has  a  trusted  treasurer  in  his  house,  as  it  is  written 
[ibid.,  ibid.  11]:  "They  put  up  in  bags  after  having  counted 
the  money,"  etc. 

R.  Huna  said:  If  one  came  to  ask  food,  it  may  be  investi- 
gated whether  he  is  in  need;  but  no  investigation  should  be 
made  of  him  who  asks  for  raiment.  This  can  be  seen  from  the 
verse  [Is.  Iviii.  7]:  "Is  it  not  to  distribute  thy  bread  to  the 
hungry  .  .  .  when  thou  seest  the  naked,  that  thou  clothe 
him  ?"  etc.,  as  the  expression  distribute,  "  Porosh  "  (with  an 
sh  instead  of  with  an  s),  means  investigate  first  and  then  give. 
And  immediately  after  this  it  reads:  "When  thou  seest  the 
naked,"  etc.,  which  means  at  once.  R.  Jehudah,  however, 
maintains  the  contrary:  No  investigation  for  food,  but  for 
raiment.  He  appeals  to  common  sense  and  to  the  verse.  To 
common  sense — he  who  requires  food  suffers  the  pangs  of  hun- 
ger, which  is  not  the  case  with  him  who  asks  raiment;  and  the 
same  cited  verse  is  also  to  be  interpreted  thus:  "  Is  it  not  to 
distribute  thy  bread,"  etc.,  means  immediately,  as  the  verse  is 
to  be  explained  according  to  its  pronunciation  and  not  the  spell- 
ing;* "  and  if  thou  seest  the  naked,"  etc.,  means  that  he  shall 
show  you  that  he  is  so.  And  there  is  a  Boraitha  supporting  R. 
Jehudah.  If  one  say:  "  Clothe  me,"  he  must  be  investigated, 
but  if  he  say:  "  Feed  me,"  it  must  be  complied  with  at  once 
without  any  investigation.  '  There  is  a  Mishna  (mentioned  in 
Sabbath,  p.  247):  "  If  a  wandering  mendicant  come  to  a  town, 
he  must  be  given  a  loaf  which  can  be  bought  for  a  pundian  (one 
forty-eighth  of  a  sela),  when  the  price  of  flour  is  one  sela  for 
four  saahs.  If  he  remain  over-night,  he  must  be  given  lodging; 
and  if  he  remain  over  Sabbath,  he  must  be  given  three  meals  for 
Sabbath."  What  is  meant  by  lodging  ?  Said  R.  Papa:  A  bed 
to  sleep  in  and  a  pillow;  and  a  Boraitha  in  addition  to  this  states 
that  if  this  mendicant  was  begging  from  door  to  door,  then  the 
congregation  need  not  look  after  him. 

There  was  a  mendicant  who  begged  from  door  to  door,  and 
R.  Papa  paid  no  attention  to  him.  Said  R.  Samma  b.  R.  leba 
to  him:  If  the  master  pay  no  attention  to  him,  then  no  one  will 

*  Their  Bibles  must  have  been  written  differently,  as  in  ours  the  spelling  of  the 
word  is  as  it  is  pronounced. 


24  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

mind  him,  and  he  may  starve  to  death.  But  did  not  the  Bo- 
raitha  say  that  if  he  beg  from  door  to  door  the  congregation  has 
nothing  to  do  with  him  ?  This  means  that  to  him  must  not  be 
given  what  is  appointed  for  mendicants  who  don't  beg  at  the 
door,  but  something  is  to  be  given  him.  R.  Assi  said:  One 
may  not  refuse  to  give  at  least  a  third  of  a  shekel  yearly  for 
charity,  as  it  is  written  [Neh.  x.  33]:  "  And  we  established  for 
us  (as  one  of  the)  commandments  to  impose  on  ourselves  (to  give) 
the  third  part  of  a  shekel  in  every  year,"  etc.  And  he  said 
again:  The  virtue  of  charity  equals  the  sum  of  the  virtues  of  all 
the  other  commandments  together,  as  it  is  written  (in  the  just 
cited  verse)  "  commandments,"  in  the  plural  and  not  in  the 
singular.  Said  R.  Elazar:  The  gatherer  of  charity  is  deemed 
more  virtuous  than  he  who  gives  charity,  as  it  is  written  [Is. 
xxxii.  17]:  "And  the  work  of  righteousness  (?.r.,  zedaka — 
charity)  shall  be  peace ;  and  the  effect  of  it  quietness  and  security 
for  ever,"  which  means:  If  he  was  worthy  of  reward,  he  will 
distribute  his  bread  to  the  hungry;  and  if  he  was  not  worthy  of 
reward,  the  poor  will  be  the  members  of  his  household. 

Said  Rabha  to  the  inhabitants  of  Mehusa,  his  city:  I  pray 
you,  see  that  there  be  concord  among  you,  in  order  that  ye 
shall  have  peace  from  the  government.  R.  Elazar  said  again : 
When  the  Temple  was  in  existence  one  gave  his  shekel,  and  he 
was  atoned.  Now,  when  the  Temple  is  destroyed,  if  people  do 
charity,  well  and  good;  if  not,  the  idolaters  come  and  take 
away  their  goods  by  force.  Nevertheless,  even  this  is  counted 
as  charity  in  Heaven,  as  it  is  written  [Is,  Ix.  17] :  "  .  .  .  and 
righteousness  as  thy  taskmasters."  (Even  when  given  to  the 
taskmasters,  it  is  counted  in  Heaven  as  charity.)  Said  Mar 
Uqba:  I  was  told  by  the  child  who  was  corrected  by  his  mother, 
in  the  name  of  R.  Elazer,  as  follows:  It  is  written  [Is.  lix.  17]: 
"  And  he  put  on  righteousness  as  a  coat  of  mail,"  etc.,  which 
may  be  understood,  that  as  in  a  coat  of  mail  every  little  link 
thereof  is  counted  in  the  number  which  is  needed  to  make  up 
such  a  coat  of  mail,  so  every  little  coin  of  charity  is  counted  in 
Heaven,  in  the  end  making  up  a  great  amount, 

R.  Hanina,  however,  said  from  the  following  verse  [ibid., 
Ixiv.  5]:  "  .  .  .  and  like  a  soiled  garment,  all  our  righteous- 
nesses .  .  ."  As  every  thread  of  a  garment  makes  it  into 
a  great  garment,  the  same  is  it  with  charity,  that  every  coin 
counts  in  the  great  aggregate. 

Why  was  R,  Shesheth  called  the  child  who  was  corrected  by 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  25 

his  mother  ?  Because  it  happened  once  that  R.  A'hadbui  b. 
Ammi  questioned  him  something  concerning  the  law  plagues; 
and  while  discussing  this  matter,  the  questioner  answered  him 
jestingly.  R.  Shesheth  became  dejected,  and  in  punishment 
for  this,  R.  A'hadbui  became  dumb,  and  forgot  his  studies. 
The  mother  of  R.  Shesheth  came  to  him  and  wept  before  him, 
that  he  should  pray  for  R.  A'hadbui  to  be  cured;  but  he  did 
not  listen  to  her  until  she  said  to  him:  "  See  the  breasts  by 
which  you  have  been  nursed,"  when  he  prayed,  and  R.  A'had- 
bui was  cured. 

R.  Elazar  said :  The  one  who  is  doing  charity  secretly  is 
greater  than  Moses  our  master;  as  in  regard  to  him  it  is  written 
[De.ut.  ix.  19]:  "  For  I  was  afraid  of  the  anger,  and  the  indig- 
nation .  .  .";  and  regarding  him  who  does  charity  secretly, 
it  is  written  [Prov.  xxi.  14]:  "  A  gift  in  secret  pacifieth  anger, 
and  a  bribe  in  the  bosom,  strong  fury."  He  differs,  however, 
with  R.  Itz'hak,  who  says  that  one  pacifies  only  anger,  but  not 
strong  fury.  Because  he  maintains  that  the  beginning  of  the 
verse  just  quoted  does  not  correspond  with  the  end;  as  it  was 
heard  in  his  name  that  a  judge  who  accepts  bribery  brings  strong 
fury  into  the  world. 

R.  Itz'hak  said  again:  He  who  gives  a  coin  to  a  poor  man 
is  rewarded  with  six  blessings;  he,  however,  who  encourages 
him  is  rewarded  with  eleven.  The  six  are  [Is.  Iviii.  8,  9]: 
"  Then  shall  break  forth  as  the  morning  dawn  thy  light. 
Then  thou  shalt  call,  and  the  Lord  will  answer."  The  eleven 
are  [ibid.,  ibid.  10]:  "  .  .  .  and  satisfy  the  afflicted  soul, 
then  shall  shine  forth  in  the  darkness  thy  light  .  .  .  And 
thou  shalt  be  called,"  etc. 

The  same  said  again:  It  is  written  [Prov.  xxi.   21]:  "He 
that  pursueth  righteousness  and  kindness  will  find  life,  right 
eousness,  and  honor."     How  is  this  verse  to  be  understood 
Because  he  pursues  righteousness,  he  will  find  righteousness 
It  means  that  whoever  pursues  righteousness  and  charity,  the 
Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  will  open  unto  him  the  ways  of  pro 
curing  money,  in  order  that  he  may  be  able  to  do  charity.     R 
Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak  said  that  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He 
gives  him  the  chance  to  find  men  who  need  and  are  worthy  of 
support,  so  that  he  may  have  the  full  reward  for  it,  in  the  world 
to  come.     What  does  he  mean  to  exclude  ?     He  means  to  ex- 
clude what  Rabha  or  Rabba  lectured :  It  is  written  [Jer.  xviii. 
23]:  "  .      .     .     in  the  time  of  thy  anger  deal  thus  with  them." 


26  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Thus  prayed  Jeremiah  before  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He: 
"  Lord  of  the  Universe!  even  when  they  overrule  their  evil 
thoughts  and  are  about  to  do  charity,  Thou  shouldst  not  give 
them  the  chance  to  support  worthy  men;  but  unworthy  ones, 
for  which  they  will  get  no  reward  in  the  world  to  come."  R. 
Joshua  b.  Levi  said:  "  Whosoever  makes  it  his  business  to  do 
charity,  will  be  blessed  with  sons  having  wisdom,  wealth,  and 
who  will  preach /m^^</^// (morality)."  As  it  is  written  in  the 
above-cited  verse,  "will  find  life,"  which  means  w'isdom ; 
"  wealth,"  as  in  the  same  verse  it  is  written  zedaka  (which 
means  charity,  and,  usually,  to  be  able  to  do  charity,  one  must 
be  wealthy);  and  "  haggadah,"  as  in  the  same  verse  it  says 
"honor,"  and  reads  [Prov.  iii.  35]:  "The  wise  shall  inherit 
glory.     .     .     ." 

There  is  a  Boraitha:  R.  Mair  used  to  say:  If  a  common 
questioner  discusses,  "  If  your  God  likes  the  poor,  why  does  He 
not  feed  them  ?  "  one  may  answer,  "  For  the  purpose  of  saving 
us  from  the  punishment  of  Gehenna."  This  Tarnusruphus 
questioned  of  R.  Aqiba,  and  the  above  was  his  answer.  To 
which  Tarnusruphus  rejoined:  It  is,  on  the  contrary,  for  this 
you  should  be  punished  with  Gehenna;  and  I  will  give  you 
a  parable  from  which  you  will  understand  why:  A  king  became 
angiy  at  his  slave  and  put  him  in  prison,  with  the  command 
that  nobody  should  feed  him ;  in  spite  of  this,  a  person  fed  him 
and  gave  him  drink.  Would  the  king  not  be  angry  at  and  pun- 
ish such  a  man  ?  And  ye  Israelites  are  called  servants,  as  it  is 
written  [Lev.  xxv.  55]:  "  For  unto  me  are  the  children  of  Israel 
servants.  .  .  ."  R.  Aqiba  answered  :  I  will  give  you  another 
parable,  to  which  my  previous  answer  is  to  be  compared:  A 
king  became  angry  w^ith  his  son,  put  him  in  prison,  and  com- 
manded that  nobody  should  give  him  food  or  drink;  in  spite  of 
which  command,  one  fed  him  and  gave  him  drink.  When  the 
king  became  aware  of  it,  would  he  not  be  grateful  to  this  person 
and  send  him  a  present  ?  And  we  Israelites  are  called  children, 
as  it  is  written  [Deut.  xiv.  i]:  "Ye  are  the  children  of  the 
Lord,"  etc.  Tarnusruphus,  however,  said:  Ye  are  named  chil- 
dren, and  also  servants — children,  when  ye  are  doing  the  Omni- 
potent's  w'ill,  and  servants  when  ye  act  against  His  will.  And 
you  will  admit  that  now  ye  are  acting  against  His  will  (as  your 
Temple  is  destroyed  and  ye  are  in  exile,  which  would  not  be 
the  case,  if  ye  did  His  will).  Hence  he  who  favors  you  acts 
against  the  will  of  God.     To  which  R.  Aqiba  answered:  With 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  27 

regard  to  this,  it  is  written  [Is.  Iviii,  10]:  "  And  if  thou  pour 
out  to  the  hungry  thy  soul,  and  satisfy  the  afflicted  soul,"  etc. 
The  "  afiflicted  soul  "  refers  to  us  in  our  present  circumstances, 
and  nevertheless  the  beginning  of  this  verse  favors  such  charity. 

R.  Jehudah  b.  Shalom  lectured:  As  the  yearly  household 
expenses  for  one  are  appointed  (in  Heaven)  on  each  Rosh 
Hashana,  so  are  his  losses.  If  he  is  worthy,  he  will  act  accord- 
ing to  the  beginning  of  the  verse  cited;  but  if  not,  the  last  por- 
tion of  this  verse,  "  the  afflicted  souls,"  will  be  the  members  of 
his  own  house.  So  Rabban  Johannan  b.  Zakkai  had  seen  in 
a  dream  that  his  nephews  would  lose  in  the  current  year  seven- 
teen hundred  dinars,  and  he  made  them  distribute  this  amount 
for  charity.  However,  seventeen  dinars  remained  with  them, 
and  on  the  eve  of  Atonement  the  government  took  them  away 
from  them.  Then  R.  Johannan  said  unto  them:  "  Fear  not; 
seventeen  dinars  were  taken  from  you,  and  you  will  lose  no 
more."  To  the  question:  "Whence  do  you  know?"  he  an- 
swered: "  I  have  seen  it  in  a  dream."  And  to  the  question: 
"  Why  did  you  not  inform  us,  as  then  we  would  have  distrib- 
uted the  entire  amount  to  the  poor  ?  "  he  answered  :  "  In  order 
that  you  give  charity  only  for  the  purpose  of  doing  the  heavenly 
will." 

It  happened  to  R.  Papa  that,  while  mounting  steps,  he 
slipped,  and  nearly  fell  (and  would  have  been  killed ;  but  was 
miraculously  saved).  Then  he  said:  If  this  had  happened,  my 
enemies  would  have  accused  me  of  being  a  violator  of  the  Sab- 
bath or  an  idolater.  Said  Hyya  b.  Rabh  of  Diphti  to  him  :  Per- 
haps a  poor  man  called  upon  you  and  you  paid  no  attention  to 
him.  As  we  have  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha:  R.  Joshua 
b.  Kar'ha  said:  He  whose  eyes  are  shut  to  charity  is  likened 
unto  an  idolater;  and  this  is  to  be  taken  from  an  analogy  of 
expression  in  the  following  verses:  Concerning  charity  it  is 
written  [Deut.  xv.  9]:  "  Beware  that  there  be  not  Belial  in  thy 
heart";  and  concerning  idolatry,  it  is  written  [ibid.,  xiii.  14]: 
"  There  have  gone  forth  children  of  Belial."  Hence  the  expres- 
sion Belial  makes  the  two  above-mentioned  acts  equal. 

There  is  a  Boraitha:  "  R.  Elazar  b,  Jose  said:  Charity  and 
kindness  done  by  Israel  in  this  world,  are  defenders  and  peace- 
makers between  them  and  their  heavenly  Father;  as  it  is  writ- 
ten [Jer.  xvi.  5]  :  '  For  thus  hath  said  the  Lord,  Enter  not  into 
the  house  of  mourning,  neither  go  to  lament  nor  to  condole 
with  them ;  for  I  have  taken  away  my  peace  from  this  people, 


28  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

saith  the  Lord,  yea,  kindness  and  mercy.'  Kindness  means 
bestowing  of  favors,  and  mercy  means  charity  (hence,  because 
these  were  taken  away,  therefore  is  the  peace  also  taken  away)." 

There  is  another  Boraitha:  "  R.  Joshua  said:  Grace  is 
charity,  which  nears  the  redeeming;  as  it  is  written  [Is.  Ivi.  i] : 
'Thus  hath  said  the  Lord,  Keep  ye  justice  and  do  zedaka* 
(charity).'  The  same  used  to  say:  Ten  hard  things  were 
created  in  the  world:  A  mountain  is  hard,  iron  cuts  it;  iron  is 
hard,  fire  softens  it;  fire  is  hard,  water  extinguishes  it;  water  is 
hard,  the  clouds  bear  it;  clouds  are  hard,  the  winds  spread 
them;  the  wind  is  hard,  the  body  tolerates  it;  a  body  is  hard, 
shaking  breaks  it;  shaking  is  hard,  wine  dispels  it;  wine  is  hard, 
sleep  removes  it ;  death  is  harder  than  all  of  these,  and  charity 
saves  from  death ;  as  it  is  written  [Prov.  x.  2] :  '  .  .  .  but 
zedaka  will  deliver  from  death.'  " 

R.  Dusthai  b.  Yannai  lectured:  Come  and  see  how  the  man- 
ner of  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  is  not  as  the  manner  of 
human  beings.  When  a  human  being  brings  a  present  to  the 
king,  there  is  a  doubt  whether  it  will  be  accepted  or  not;  and  if 
it  be  accepted,  whether  he  will  see  the  king.  But  the  Holy 
One,  blessed  be  He,  is  not  so;  if  a  man  gives  a  coin  to  a  poor 
man,  he  is  rewarded  and  experiences  the  appearance  of  the 
Shekhinah ;  as  it  is  written  [Ps.  xvii.  15]:  "  As  for  me,  in  zedek 
(charity)  shall  I  behold  thy  face.     .     .     ." 

R.  Elazar  used  to  give  a  coin  to  a  poor  man  before  praying, 
quoting  the  above  verse  [ibid.,  ibid.]:  "  I  shall  be  satisfied, 
when  I  awake,  with  contemplating  thy  likeness."  What  does 
it  mean  ?  Said  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak  :  "  It  means  that  scholars 
who  keep  sleep  from  their  eyes  in  this  world,  the  Holy  One, 
blessed  be  He,  satisfies  them  with  the  appearance  of  the  She- 
khinah in  the  world  to  come."  R.  Johanan  said:  It  is  written 
[Prov.  xix.  17]:  "  He  lendeth  to  the  Lord,  that  is  liberal  to  the 
poor."  If  this  were  not  written,  it  would  be  impossible  of  con- 
ception ;  for  it  appears  as  if  He  becomes  a  servant  to  the  lender; 
for  it  is  written  [ibid.,  xxii.  7]:  "  .  .  .  and  the  borrower  is 
servant  to  the  man  that  lendeth."  R.  Hyya  b.  Abba,  in  the 
name  of  R.  Johanan,  said:  It  is  written  [ibid.,  xi.  4]:  "  .  .  . 
but  zedaka  will  deliver  from  death  ";  and  [ibid.,  x.  2]:  "  Trea- 
sures of  wickedness  will  not  profit  aught ;  but  zedaka  will  deliver 
from  death."     What  do  the  two  zedakas  mean  ?     One,  that  it 

*  The  Hebrew  term  is  zedaka  ;  Leeser  translates  it  "equity,"  according  to  the 
sense. 


TRACT    BABA   BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  29 

saved  him  from  an  unnatural  death;  the  other,  that  it  saved 
him  from  Gehenna.  Which  of  them  speaks  of  Gehenna  ?  The 
one  from  chap,  xi.,  as  there  is  there  mentioned  the  day  of 
"  wrath";  as  it  is  written  [Zeph.  i.  1 5]:  "A  day  of  wrath  is 
that  day,"  etc.,  meaning  Gehenna.  And  what  kind  of  zedaka 
saves  one  from  an  unnatural  death  ?  If  he  gives,  and  knows 
not  to  whom,  and  he  who  receives  it  knows  not  from  whom  (if 
he  gives  his  donation  to  the  treasurer  of  charity).  "  Gives  and 
knows  not  to  whom  "  excludes  the  acts  of  Mar  Uqba  (who  used 
to  put  four  zuz  every  day  in  the  slot  underneath  the  door  for 
one  poor  man,  so  that  the  poor  knew  not  from  whom  he  received 
it,  but  Mar  Uqba  knew  to  whom  he  gave  it).  "  The  receiver 
does  not  know  from  whom  "  excludes  the  acts  of  R.  Abba,  who 
used  to  wrap  up  some  dinars  in  his  handkerchief  and,  coming 
among  the  poor,  stretch  his  hand  containing  it  behind  him,  and 
the  poor  would  take  it  out;  so  that  he  knew  not  who  took  it, 
but  the  poor  knew  who  was  the  giver.  An  objection  was  raised 
from  the  following:  What  shall  one  do  that  he  should  have  male 
children  ?  R.  Elazar  said:  He  should  distribute  his  money 
among  the  poor.  R.  Joshua  said:  He  should  enjoy  his  wife 
before  he  has  intercourse  with  her.  And  R.  Eliezer  b,  Jacob 
said :  He  shall  not  give  a  coin  for  the  treasury  of  charity  unless 
the  treasurer  is  like  unto  R.  Hananya  b.  Theradion.  (Hence 
one  must  not  always  give  to  the  treasury  of  charity  ?)  The 
above  Boraitha  meant  also  when  the  treasurer  was  of  that  kind. 
R.  Abuhu  'said :  Moses  said  before  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be 
He:  "  Lord  of  the  Universe,  how  may  the  horn  of  Israel  be 
raised?"  To  which  He  answered:  "You  should  take  charity 
from  every  one  of  Israel  who  is  to  be  counted  "  [Ex.  xxx.  12]. 
The  same  said  again:  King  Solomon  b.  David  was  questioned: 
How  great  is  the  power  of  charity  ?  and  he  answered:  Go  and 
see  how  David,  my  father,  explained  this  [Ps.  cxii.  9] :  "  He 
distributeth,  he  giveth  to  the  needy :  his  righteousness  endureth 
for  ever;  his  horn  shall  be  exalted  in  honor."  Rabha,  however, 
said,  from  the  following  verse  [Is.  xxxiii.  16]:  "  He  shall  dwell 
on  high;  rocky  strongholds  shall  be  his  refuge;  his  bread  shall 
be  given  him;  his  water  shall  be  sure."  And  it  is  to  be  inter- 
preted thus:  "  Why  shall  he  dwell  on  high,"  etc.?  Because  to 
the  poor  he  has  given  his  bread,  and  to  the  down-trodden  his 
water  was  sure.  R,  Abuhu  said  again:  Solomon  was  ques- 
tioned: Who  is  supposed  to  be  the  man  who  has  a  share  in  the 
world  to  come  ?     And  he  answered  with  the  verse  [Is.  xxiv. 


30 


THE    EABYLOMAX    TALMUD. 


23]:  "...  and  before  his  ancients  in  glory"  (which  means 
him  who  is  respected  in  his  old  age  for  the  wisdom  which  he 
gathered  during  all  his  life.  As  it  happened  to  Joseph  b.  R. 
Joshua,  who  was  in  a  state  of  catalepsy,  and  when  he  awoke  his 
father  asked  him :  What  have  you  seen  in  the  upper  world  ? 
And  he  answered:  I  have  seen  a  reversed  world:  he  who  is  here 
highly  esteemed  is  there  considered  of  the  lowest  class,  and  vice 
versa.  His  father  rejoined  :  Not  a  reversed  world,  but  a  rational 
one,  have  you  seen.  He  continued  questioning:  And  how  arc 
we  considered  there  ?  And  he  answered :  The  same  as  in  this 
w^orld.  I  also  heard  a  saying:  Happy  are  they  who  come  here 
with  their  study  in  their  hands.  I  also  heard  that  those  who 
were  killed  by  the  government,  none  of  the  creatures  could 
approach  them  (because  of  their  high  standing). 

Who  is  meant  by  those  who  were  killed  by  the  government  ? 
Shall  we  assume  that  R.  Aqiba  and  his  comrades  are  meant  ? 
Is  it  only  because  they  were  killed  ?  (They  were  the  greatest 
men  of  the  generation,  aside  from  this.)  It  meant  them  who 
were  killed  in  Louda.     (See  Tract  Taanith,  pp.  45-46.) 

There  is  a  Boraitha:  Rabban  Johannan  b.  Zakkai  questioned 
his  disciples  as  to  the  meaning  of  the  verse  [Prov.  xiv.  34] : 
"  Zedaka  exalteth  a  people;  but  the  disgrace  of  nations  is  sin." 
And  R.  Eliezer  answered:  "  Zedaka  exalteth  a  people  "  means 
Israel,  as  it  is  written  [II  Sam.  vii.  23]:  "  And  who  is  like  thy 
people,  like  Israel,  the  only  nation  on  the  earth  ?  "  And  "  the 
disgrace  of  nations  is  sin  " — all  the  zedaka  and  kindness  of  the 
nations,  if  they  indulge  in  them  only  for  the  purpose  of  becom- 
ing great  or  gaining  a  good  name,  is  a  sin  for  them.  R.  Joshua 
(one  of  the  disciples)  answered  the  first  half-verse  same  as  R. 
Eliezer;  and  the  second  half:  If  the  nations  do  so  even  in  order 
that  their  kingdom  shall  continue  to  exist  for  a  long  time,  as  in 
the  case  of  Nebuchadnezzar  [Dan.  iv.].  Rabban  Gamaliel  an- 
swered the  first  half  of  the  verse  as  above;  the  second  half:  It 
is  a  sin  for  the  nations  if  they  do  so  solely  to  pride  themselves 
thereon  against  other  nations.  So  he  who  is  proud  without 
cause  falls  into  Gehenna,  as  it  is  written  [Prov.  xxi.  24]:  "  The 
presumptuous  and  proud,  scorner  is  his  name,  who  dealeth  in 
the  wrath  of  presumption."  And  by  wrath  is  meant  Gehenna, 
as  mentioned  above.  Said  R.  Gamaliel:  For  the  right  inter- 
pretation of  this  verse  we  are  still  in  need  of  the  Modaith  ;  as 
R.  Eliezer  b.  Modaith  interpreted  it  thus:  The  first  part  as 
above,  and  the  second  part:  If  the  nations  are  doing  so  only  for 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  31 

the  purpose  of  insulting  Israel;  as  it  is  written  [Jer.  xl.  3]: 
"  Now  the  Lord  hath  brought  it  .  .  .  because  ye  have 
sinned,"  etc.,  which  was  said  by  Nebusaradan.  R.  Ne'hunia 
b.  Hakana,  however,  answered :  This  verse  is  to  be  interpreted 
thus:  Zedaka  and  kindness  exalt  a  nation,  meaning  Israel;  but 
to  the  nations  it  is  considered  a  sin-offering.  Their  master,  R. 
Johannan  b.  Zakkai,  rejoined:  It  seems  to  me  that  Ne'hunia's 
interpretation  is  better  than  yours  and  mine.  "  Than  mine  !  Did 
he  also  say  something  about  this  ?  "  Yea;  as  we  have  learned  in 
the  following  Boraitha:  "  Said  to  them  R.  Johannan  b.  Zakkai: 
As  a  sin-offering  atones  for  Israel,  so  does  charity  atone  for  all 
other  nations," 

Iphra  Hurmiz,  the  mother  of  KingSabur,  sent  four  hundred 
dinars  for  charity  to  R.  Ammi,  and  he  did  not  accept  it,  but 
forwarded  it  to  Rabha,  who  accepted  it,  in  order  to  have  peace 
with  the  royal  house.  R.  Ammi,  however,  became  angry,  and 
said:  Does  Rabha  not  accept  the  verse  [Is.  xxvii.  11]:  "  When 
its  boughs  are  withered,  they  shall  be  broken  off;  women  will 
come  and  set  them  on  fire;  for  it  is  not  a  people  of  understand- 
ing," etc.  ? 

But  why  does  R.  Ammi  become  angry  ?  Did  he  not  want 
to  maintain  the  peace  with  the  royal  house  ?  He  thought  that 
this  money  ought  to  be  distributed  among  the  Gentile  poor 
only.     Rabha  also  did  so,  but  R.  Ammi  was  not  aware  of  it. 

There  is  a  Boraitha:  It  was  said  about  Benjamin  the  Upright, 
who  was  a  treasurer  of  charity,  that  at  one  time  a  woman  came 
to  him  in  the  years  of  famine,  asking  him  to  feed  her.  And  he 
told  her:  I  swear  that  there  is  nothing  in  the  treasury  of  charity. 
But  she  rejoined:  Rabbi,  if  you  will  not  feed  me,  you  will  find 
a  woman  with  her  seven  children  dead.  He  then  fed  her  from 
his  own  pocket.  At  a  later  time  he  became  sick  and  was  near 
to  death;  the  angels  said  before  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He: 
"  Lord  of  the  Universe,  Thou  hast  declared  that  he  who  saves 
one  soul  of  Israel  is  like  unto  him  who  has  saved  a  whole  world ; 
and  Benjamin  the  Upright,  who  has  saved  a  woman  with  her 
seven  children,  should  he  die  in  his  prime  ?"  Immediately  the 
adverse  decree  was  torn,  and  a  Boraitha  states  that  twenty-two 
years  were  added  to  his  life. 

The  rabbis  taught:  It  happened  with  the  King  Monbas,  who 
had  distributed  his  treasure  and  that  of  his  parents,  in  the  years 
of  famine,  that  his  brothets  and  the  whole  household  murmured 
against  him,  saying:  Your  parents  saved  and  always  added  to 


32  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

the  treasure  of  their  parents,  and  you  are  distributing  all  this! 
And  be  rejoined:  My  parents  saved  their  riches  in  this  world, 
and  I  save  in  the  heavenly  treasury.  As  it  is  written  [Ps.  Ixxxv. 
12]:  "  Truth  will  grow  up  out  of  the  earth,  and  righteousness 
will  look  down  from  heaven."  My  parents  saved  in  their  treas- 
ury, which  brought  them  no  interest,  and  I  have  saved  in  such 
a  treasury  as  does  bring  interest.  As  it  is  written  [Is.  iii.  10]: 
"  Say  ye  to  the  righteous,  that  he  hath  done  well;  for  the  fruit 
of  their  doings  shall  they  eat."  My  parents  have  saved  in  a 
place  which  can  be  reached  by  a  hand,  but  I  have  saved  in 
a  place  that  can  be  reached  by  no  hand.  As  it  is  written  [Ps. 
ixxxix.  15]:  "  Righteousness  and  justice  are  the  prop  of  thy 
throne:  kindness  and  truth  precede  thy  presence."  My  parents 
have  saved  for  their  descendants,  and  I  have  saved  for  myself. 
As  it  is  written  [Deut.  xxiv.  13]:  "  .  .  .  and  unto  tJiee  shall 
it  be  as  righteousness  before  the  Lord  thy  God."  My  parents 
have  saved  money  in  their  treasury,  and  I  have  saved  souls  in 
my  treasury.  As  it  is  written  [Prov.  xi.  30]:  "  The  fruit  of  the 
righteous  is  of  the  tree  of  life;  and  the  wise  draweth  souls  to 
himself."  My  parents  have  saved  for  this  world,  and  1  have 
saved  for  the  world  to  come.  As  it  is  written  [Is.  Iviii.  8]: 
and  before  thee  shall  go  thy  righteousness;  the  glory 
of  the  Lord  shall  be  thy  rereward." 

"  If,  however,  he  bought  a  dwellitig-house,"  etc.  Our  Mishna 
is  not  in  accordance  with  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  of  the  follow- 
ing Boraitha,  who  says  that  if  one  bought  a  tract  of  land,  how- 
ever small,  he  is  considered  a  citizen  immediately.  But  have 
we  not  learned  in  another  Boraitha  that  he  taught,  if  one  bought 
a  tract  of  land  which  is  even  only  fit  to  build  a  house  upon  ? 
There  are  two  Tanaim  who  have  reported  differently  in  his  name. 

MISHNA  V. :  Partners  cannot  compel  each  other  to  divide 
a  courtyard  unless  each  of  the  parts  measures  at  least  four  ells; 
nor  can  a  field  be  divided  unless  each  part  measures  at  least 
nine  kabs  for  sowing.  R.  Jehudah,  however,  says:  Nine  half- 
kabs.  Nor  can  a  garden  be  divided  unless  each  part  measures 
at  least  half  a  kab  for  sowing.  R.  Aqiba,  however,  says:  A 
quarter.  Neither  can  one  compel  his  partner  to  divide  a  dining- 
room,  a  turret,  a  pigeon-coop,  a  cloth,  a  bath-house,  or  an  olive- 
press  house,  unless  each  has  enough  room  to  continue  his  former 
work.  This  is  the  rule:  If,  after  division,  each  part  retains  its 
former  name,  then  one  can  compel  his  partner  to  divide;  but 
not   otherwise.      All   this  is  said   when   the  partners  disagree; 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  33 

however,  when  they  do  agree,  they  may  do  as  they  please.  An 
exception  is  the  Holy  Writ,  if  they  possess  it,  which  must  not 
be  divided,  even  if  both  agree  to  do  so. 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Assi  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan:  The 
four  ells  mentioned  must  be  measured  after  doors  and  partitions 
necessary  have  been  placed.  And  he  may  be  supported  from 
the  following  Boraithas:  As  one  of  them  states  that  a  courtyard 
is  not  to  be  divided  unless  each  part  contains  eight  ells,  and 
another  one  states,  unless  four  ells;  to  explain  the  contradic- 
tion, it  is  to  be  said  that  one  treats  without  the  doors  and  par- 
titions, and  the  other  treats  with  them. 

R.  Huna  said:  A  yard  must  be  divided  in  accordance  with 
the  doors  (it  means,  he  who  possesses  more  doors  is  to  get  a 
greater  share).  R.  Hisda,  however,  maintains  that  four  ells 
must  be  allowed  for  each  door,  and  the  remainder  should  be 
divided  equally.  There  is  a  Boraitha  which  supports  R.  Hisda: 
"  All  the  doors  which  are  in  a  yard,  the  owners  of  them  have 
a  right  to  four  ells  for  each  one ;  if  one  possesses  one  door,  and 
another  one  two,  the  former  takes  four,  and  the  latter  eight 
ells;  and  the  remainder  is  to  be  divided  equally.  If,  however, 
one  of  them  possesses  a  gate  which  measures  eight  ells,  he  has 
a  right  to  eight  ells  opposite  it,  and  four  ells  in  the  yard." 
What  is  meant  by  the  additional  four  ells  ?  Thus  said  Abayi: 
He  takes  eight  ells  in  the  length  and  four  ells  in  the  width  of 
the  yard.  Amemar  said:  An  excavation  in  the  yard  which  con- 
tains gra^tum  of  fruit  for  the  food  of  cattle,  four  ells  is  to  be 
measured  to  it  on  either  side.  However,  this  is  said  when  the 
owner  has  no  separate  door  for  it;  but  if  he  has  one,  four  eJls 
to  the  door  only  are  to  be  measured.  R.  Huna  said:  "  To  a 
balcony  the  law  of  four  ells  does  not  apply,  as  the  four  ells 
which  are  allowed  for  each  door  are  for  unloading,  and  to  and 
from  the  balcony  one  goes  through  the  door  of  the  house.  R. 
Shesheth  objected  from  the  following:  Gates  of  houses,  as  well 
as  gates  of  balconies,  have  a  right  to  four  ells  ?  The  Boraitha 
speaks  of  a  balcony  which  is  partitioned  with  windows;  if  so, 
then  it  is  self-evident,  as  it  is  a  good  chamber  ?  It  means  that 
the  partitions  did  not  reach  the  ceiling.  The  rabbis  taught:  A 
gate,  a  balcony,  or  a  gallery  to  which  doors  of  the  upper  com- 
partments open,  and  from  which  steps  lead  down  to  the  court, 
have  each  a  right  to  four  ells.  And  even  if  five  houses  were  open 
to  this  gallery,  no  more  than  four  ells  are  allowed.  R.  Johanan 
questioned  R.  Jannai :  Has  a  chicken-coop  a  right  to  four  ells, 
3 


i4  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

or  not  ?  And  he  answered  :  The  four  ells  are  given  for  unload- 
ing, and  here  he  can  load  and  unload  through  the  roof  of  the 
chicken-coop.      Therefore  it  has  no  right  to  four  ells. 

Rabha  questioned  R.  Na'hman :  In  the  case  of  a  house 
which  is  only  half  roofed,  how  is  the  law  about  the  four  ells  in 
question  ?  And  he  answered :  It  is  not  entitled  to  them — not 
only  when  it  is  roofed  from  inside,  so  that  it  is  easy  for  one  to 
go  in  to  unload;  but  even  when  it  is  roofed  from  outside,  he 
may  take  the  trouble  of  entering  from  inside  to  unload. 

R.  Huna  questioned  R.  Ammi :  If  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  an 
alley  desires  to  open  the  door  leading  from  his  yard  to  another 
alley,  may  the  inhabitants  of  that  alley  prevent  him,  or  not  ? 
And  he  answered:  They  may.  He  questioned  him  also:  Lodg- 
ings for  the  government  militia,  how  should  they  be  arranged  ? 
In  accordance  with  the  number  of  souls  or  in  accordance  with 
the  number  of  doors  ?  And  he  answered :  In  accordance  with 
the  number  of  souls.  And  so  also  have  we  learned  in  the  fol- 
lowing Boraitha:  Manure  in  the  yard  is  to  be  divided  in  accord- 
ance with  the  doors  of  the  house;  and  military  lodgings,  in 
accordance  with  the  number  of  souls. 

R.  Huna  said:  If  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  an  alley  desires 
to  make  a  fence  around  the  entrance,  the  other  inhabitants  may 
prevent  him,  because  he  extends  their  way  (making  them  walk 
around  his  fence).  An  objection  was  raised  from  the  following: 
If  there  were  five  courtyards  open  to  the  alley  (which  was,  in 
turn,  open  to  the  street),  all  of  them  may  use  the  place  border- 
ing on  the  fifth  yard  which  is  nearest  the  street  (for  loading, 
unloading,  etc.).  The  fifth,  however,  may  use  only  its  own 
place,  but  not  the  places  near  the  other  yards.  The  same  is 
the  case  with  the  first  three  at  the  place  near  the  fourth  yard, 
the  first  two  at  the  third,  and  only  the  first  one  at  all  of  them, 
while  none  of  them  have  the  first  one.  (Hence  we  see  that  to 
the  first  one  none  of  them  has  a  right;  and  this  objects  to  R. 
Huna's  theory,  who  said  that  none  oi  them  have  a  right  to  make 
a  fence  around  their  entrance.)  Regarding  this  law,  Tanaim  of 
the  following  Boraitha  differ:  One  of  the  inhabitants  of  an  alley 
who  desires  to  open  his  door  into  another  alley,  the  inhabitants 
of  that  alley  may  prevent  him.  If,  however,  the  door  was  therCy 
only  it  was  shut,  and  he  wanted  to  open  it,  they  cannot  prevent 
him.  So  is  the  decree  of  Rabbi.  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar,  how- 
ever, maintains,  that  if  there  were  five  yards  opening  to  an  alley, 
all  of  them  may  use  the  places  which  border  upon  the  yards  in 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  35 

the  alley.  And  to  the  question,  "  Where  are  yards  men- 
tioned ? "  it  was  said  that  this  Boraitha  is  not  complete,  and 
should  read  thus:  "And  the  same  is  the  case  with  five  yards 
which  open  into  an  alley:  all  of  them  may  use  the  fifth  which 
is  nearest  the  street,  and  the  fifth  can  use  only  its  own  place, 
etc.  So  is  the  decree  of  Rabbi.  R.  Simeon,  however,  main- 
tains that  all  of  them  may  use  the  places  alike." 

The  master  says:  If  there  was  a  door,  and  it  was  shut,  the 
inhabitants  cannot  prevent  him.  Said  Rabha:  This  law  holds 
good  only  when  he  had  not  broken  the  hinges ;  but  if  he  had 
broken  the  hinges,  it  is  supposed  that  he  had  not  intended  to 
open  the  door  again,  and  the  inhabitants  can  prevent  him  from 
doing  so.  Said  Abayi  to  him  :  The  following  Boraitha  supports 
you :  "  If  there  was  a  house  with  a  closed  door,  the  four  ells  for 
unloading  applies  to  it;  if,  however,  the  owner  broke  the  hinges 
from  the  door,  he  has  lost  his  right  to  them."  Rabba  b.  b. 
Hana,  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan,  said:  Alleys  which  are  open 
to  a  road  which  leads  to  another  city,  and  the  inhabitants  of  this 
city  desire  to  close  them,  the  inhabitants  of  that  city  may  pre- 
vent them ;  not  only  when  there  is  no  other  road  to  that  city, 
but  even  if  there  was  another  road,  they  can  also  prevent  them. 
As  R.  Jehudah,  in  the  name  of  Rabh,  declared:  A  thoroughfare 
which  is  occupied  by  a  majority,  it  is  prohibited  to  spoil. 

R.  Annan,  in  the  name  of  Samuel,  said:  Inhabitants  of  alleys 
who  desire  to  make  doors  to  their  ends  which  are  open  to  the 
street  may  be  prevented  by  the  public.  The  schoolmen  were 
about  to  interpret  this  that  it  meant  only  the  first  four  ells 
which  are  attached  to  the  public  ground,  but  not  beyond  this. 
As  R.  Zera  said  elsewhere,  in  the  name  of  R.  Na'hman:  The 
four  ells  which  are  attached  to  the  public  ground  are  to  be  con- 
sidered as  the  public  ground  itself.  In  reality,  however,  it  is 
not  so,  as  R.  Na'hman's  decision  there  was  only  regarding  the 
law  of  defilement;  but  here  it  might  happen  that  the  street 
should  be  crowded  and  many  people  would  enter  beyond  the 
four  ells. 

"  Nor  can  a  field  be  divided,'"  etc.  And  R.  Jehudah  does  not 
differ  with  the  first  Tana,  as  each  of  them  speaks  in  accordance 
with  the  custom  in  his  country.  But  what  is  the  law  in  Babylon  ? 
Said  R.  Joseph:  It  can  be  divided  if  there  is  enough  to  plough  for 
a  day.  How  is  this  to  be  understood  ?  If  it  means  in  the  days  of 
scwiiig,  when  the  earth  has  already  been  ploughed,  then  the 
ploughing  will  not  last  two  days,  and  in  one  day  it  could  not  be 


36  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

completed ;  and  if  in  the  days  of  ploughing,  then  in  the  time  of  har- 
vest there  will  not  be  a  day's  work  (and  it  is  a  trouble  to  hire  la- 
borers for  a  fraction  of  a  day)  ?  If  you  wish,  it  may  be  said  that  it 
means  a  day  of  ploughing  and  sowing  together;  and  if  you  wish, 
it  may  be  said  that  it  means  a  day  of  sowing  and  artificial  wa- 
tering. R.  Na'hman  said:  A  valley  can  be  divided  when  there 
is  for  each  part  a  day's  artificial  watering.  "  A  vineyard,"  says 
the  father  of  Samuel,  "  three  kabs  for  each  part."  And  so  also 
we  have  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha:  "  If  one  says:  '  I 
sell  you  a  part  of  the  vineyard,'  it  is  no  less  than  three  kabs. 
So  is  the  decree  of  Symmachos. "  Said  R.  Jose:  "  Such  a  de- 
cree is  only  prophetical,  as  I  see  no  ground  for  this."  How  is 
the  law  in  question  to  be  decided  in  Babylon  ?  Said  Rabha  b. 
Qisna:  There  shall  be  no  less  than  three  bushes,  each  of  them 
containing  no  less  than  twelve  branches  of  grapes,  to  dig  which 
is  a  man's  day's  work. 

Said  R.  Abdimi  of  the  city  'Haifa:  Since  the  Temple  was 
destroyed,  prophecy  was  taken  away  from  the  prophets  and 
was  given  to  the  wise.  I'How  is  this  to  be  understood  ?)  Can 
a  wise  man  not  be  also  a  prophet  ?  In  other  words,  were  all 
the  prophets  fools  ?  He  means  to  say,  that  although  it  was 
taken  away  from  the  prophets  who  were  not  wise,  it  was  not 
taken  away  from  the  wise  ones.  Said  Amemar:  And  a  wise 
man  is  better  than  a  prophet,  as  it  is  written  [Ps.  xc.  12]: 
".  .  .  obtain  («^(^<^/*)  a  heart  endowed  with  wisdom."  And 
usually,  who  is  dependent  upon  whom  ?  The  smaller  is  depend- 
ent upon  the  greater.  Hence  wisdom  is  greater  than  prophecy. 
Said  Abayi :  This  theory  may  be  supported  from  the  fact  that 
one  great  man  declares  something  new,  and  exactly  the  same 
had  been  said  by  another  great  man.  Said  Rabha:  "  What  sup- 
port is  this  ?  It  may  be  that  both  of  them  are  equal  in  wisdom. 
Therefore,"  said  he,  "  it  happens  frequently  that  a  great  man 
declares  something  new,  and  afterwards  it  is  found  that  Aqiba 
b.  Jose  has  already  declared  so  (and  it  is  hard  to  say  that  he  was 
equal  in  wisdom  to  R.  Aqiba).  R.  Ashi,  however,  objected 
also  to  this:  It  may  happen  that  in  this  one  case  he  was  equal 
in  wisdom  to  him.  And  he  supported  this  from  the  fact  that  it 
very  often  occurs  that  a  sage  declares  a  Halakha,  and  afterwards 
it  is  learned  that  the  same  was  already  said  to  Moses  on  Mount 

*  The  expression  in  the  Bible  is  ve'nobbi,  which  has  two  meanings — "  to  obtain," 
and  also  "  a  prophet."  The  Talmud  takes  it  literally,  that  a  prophet  has  a  heart  of 
wisdom.     Leeser  translates  according  to  the  sense. 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  37 

Sinai.  But  even  then,  perhaps  it  was  by  chance,  as  it  happens 
that  a  blind  man  accidentally  seizes  something.  It  means  that 
he  declares  also  the  reason  of  it. 

R.  Johanan  said:  Since  the  Temple  was  destroyed,  proph- 
ecy was  taken  away  from  the  prophets  and  was  given  to  luna- 
tics and  small  children.  What  is  meant  by  lunatics  ?  Thus  it 
happened  to  Mar  b.  R.  Ashi,  who  was  standing  in  the  market 
of  Mehuza  and  heard  a  lunatic  say  that  the  future  head  of  the 
college  in  Suria  would  be  Tibumi  (Mar's  name  was  Tibumi). 
And  he  said:  "  Who  among  the  rabbis  signs  his  name  Tibumi,  if 
not  myself?  Hence  I  shall  succeed. "  And  he  went  to  Suria. 
In  the  mean  time  the  rabbis  of  the  college  intended  to  appoint 
R.  A'ha  of  Diphthi  as  their  head.  However,  when  they  heard 
that  Mar  had  arrived,  they  sent  to  him  two  of  the  rabbis  to  take 
his  advice,  and  he  detained  them.  Then  they  sent  another  two, 
and  he  did  the  same  with  them.  Finally  ten  of  them  arrived, 
and  then  he  began  to  teach  and  to  lecture,  and  proclaimed  him- 
self as  the  head  of  the  college.  [He  did  so  because  one  must 
not  begin  to  lecture  if  there  are  less  than  ten  persons  present.] 
R.  A'ha  then  applied  to  himself  the  saying  of  the  sages:  He  to 
whom  harm  has  been  done  by  heaven,  has  no  hope  of  relief  in 
the  near  future,  and  vice  versa. 

And  what  in  regard  to  the  children  ?  For  example,  the 
little  daughter  of  R.  Hisda  was  sitting  on  the  knee  of  her 
father,  and  Rabha  and  Rami  b.  Hama  were  sitting  opposite, 
and  to  the  question  of  her  father,  "  Whom  of  them  would  you 
like  to  marry  ?"  she  answered,  "  Both  of  them."  And  Rabha 
immediately  rejoined:  "  I  shall  be  the  last  one."  (And  so  it 
was.  Rabha  married  her  after  the  death  of  her  first  husband. 
Rami  b.  Hama.) 

R.  Abdimi  of  'Haifa  said  again:  Before  one  eats  and  drinks 
he  has  two  hearts,  and  after  this  he  has  only  one,  as  it  is  writ- 
ten [Job,  xi.  13].*  Said  R.  Huna  b.  R.  Joshua:  Who  is  used 
to  wine,  even  if  his  heart  is  locked  like  a  virgin's,  the  wine 
opens  it;  as  it  is  written  [Zech.  ix.  17] :  "  .  .  .  and  new 
wine  the  virgins." 

R.  Huna  b.  R.  Joshua  said:  It  is  certain  that  when  a  first- 
born among  his  brothers  (who  is  entitled  biblically  to  two  shares) 
comes  to  inherit  his  shares  in  real  estate,  he  is  to  be  given  two 
portions  adjoining.      But  how  is  it   if  the  first-born   has  died 

*  The  expression  in  this  verse  is  nabub  yilabab  ;  literally,  "  The  empty  one  shall 
receive  two  hearts."     Leeser's  translation  does  not  correspond. 


38  THE    BABYLONIAN"    TALMUD. 

without  children,  and  the  surviving  brother  marries  his  wife 
and  takes  his  shares — does  the  law  of  preemption  apply  to  him 
also,  as  to  the  dead  brother,  or  not  ?  Abayi  said :  He  is 
to  be  treated  just  as  the  dead  one.  And  Rabha  said:  It 
is  written  [Deut.  xxv.  6]:  "And  it  shall  be  that  the  first- 
born," etc.,  which  signifies  that  he  shall  be  treated  as  the 
first-born  in  that  respect,  but  not  respecting  the  division  of  a 
heritage. 

There  was  a  man  who  bought  an  estate  near  to  the  estate  of 
his  father-in-law  (who  had  no  male  children),  and  when  they 
came  to  divide  the  inheritance  of  the  father-in-law,  he  insisted 
that  the  estate  at  the  boundary  of  the  one  he  bought  should  be 
given  to  him.  Said  Rabha:  Such  a  claim,  if  not  listened  to,  it 
would  be  equal  to  the  acts  of  Sodomites.  Therefore  they  must 
be  compelled  to  comply  with  his  wish.  R.  Joseph  opposed: 
Could  not  his  brothers-in-law  claim  that  this  estate  was  pleasant 
to  them  as  the  estate  of  Bar  Marion  (which  was  then  known  as 
the  best  estate)  ?  And  the  Halakha  prevails  in  accordance  with 
R.  Joseph  (if  the  estate  needs  no  artificial  watering).  Should 
one  of  brothers  who  are  about  to  inherit  two  estates  of  dry 
land,  each  of  which  has  a  pond  for  watering,  buy  an  estate 
adjoining  one  of  the  two  estates  in  question,  and  demand  that 
this  should  be  given  him  as  his  share — said  Rabha:  As  each  of 
them  has  a  pond  for  watering,  his  claim  is  a  right  one;  and  if 
declined,  it  would  be  a  Sodomite  custom.  R.  Joseph,  however, 
opposed  this,  saying:  His  brother  can  claim  :  "  It  might  happen 
that  one  pond  would  become  dry  and  we  should  be  compelled 
to  water  both  estates  from  one  pond;  but  as  he  has  bought 
another  estate,  the  pond  will  not  be  sufificient  for  watering  all 
of  them,  and  mine  would  remain  dry."  And  the  Halakha  pre- 
vails in  accordance  with  him  also  in  this  case. 

If  the  inheritance  consists  of  two  estates  which  are  watered 
from  one  pond,  and  one  of  the  brothers  has  bought  an  estate 
adjoining  one  of  these,  and  demands  this  adjoining  one  as  his 
share — said  R.  Joseph:  His  claim  is  a  right  one,  as  the  above 
reason  cannot  apply  here;  and,  therefore,  if  it  should  not  be 
listened  to,  it  would  be  a  Sodomite  custom.  To  which  Abayi 
opposed  :  One  can  claim  :  "  It  is  better  for  me  to  have  my  estate 
between  your  two,  and  then  it  will  be  better  preserved."  How- 
ever, the  Halakha  prevails  again  with  R.  Joseph,  as  the  latter 
claim  is  not  to  be  considered.  If  two  brothers  inherit  an  estate 
which  has  a  river  on  one  side  and  a  pond  on  the  other,  the 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  39 

estate  must  be  divided  diagonally  so  that  each  half  borders  on 
both  the  river  and  the  pond. 

"  Nor  a  dining-room,''  etc.  But  how  is  it  when  there  is  not 
so  much  space  for  each  ?  According  to  R.  Jehudah  the  law, 
Either  you  concede  or  I  concede,"  must  be  applied.  One  of 
them  can  say:  "  Either  I  pay  you  cash  for  your  share,  and  the 
whole  estate  remains  for  me,  or  vice  versa.''  And  R.  Na'hman 
said:  Such  a  law  cannot  be  applied,  and  they  must  remain  in 
partnership.  Said  Rabha  to  R.  Na'hman:  According  to  your 
decision,  that  the  law  of  concession  does  not  apply  in  such 
a  case,  how  is  it,  then,  if  a  first-born  and  his  brother  have  inher- 
ited from  their  father  a  slave,  or  an  animal  which  is  not  fit  for 
slaughtering — how  shall  they  divide  it  ?  (A  first-born  is  entitled 
to  two-thirds;  and  therefore  he  took  as  his  instance  a  first-born, 
because  it  is  more  difficult  for  them  to  remain  partners.)  An- 
swered R.  Na'hman:  Because  I  say  even  then  they  must  remain 
partners,  and  the  slave  or  animal  in  question  must  serve  to  one 
two  days,  and  to  the  other  one. 

An  objection  was  raised  from  the  following:  If  there  is 
a  bondsman  only  in  half  (as,  for  instance,  he  has  been  a  bonds- 
man of  two  masters  and  was  freed  by  one  of  them),  he  may 
serve  his  master  one  day,  and  attend  to  his  own  business  the 
other  day.  So  is  the  decree  of  Beth  Hillel.  Said  Beth  Sham- 
mai :  Such  a  law  is  partial,  as  you  have  satisfied  only  the  master, 
but  not  the  bondsman ;  as  the  bondsman  cannot  marry  a  female 
slave,  for  he  is  half  free,  nor  can  he  marry  a  free  maiden,  because 
he  is  half  slave,  shall  it  be  decided  that  he  shall  remain  unmar- 
ried ?  This  would  also  be  improper,  as  the  world  is  created  for 
reproduction;  as  it  is  written  [Is.  xlv.  18]:  "Not  for  naught 
did  he  create  it:  to  be  inhabited  did  he  form  it."  And  there- 
fore he  can  compel  his  master  to  set  him  free,  and  accept  a  note 
for  half  his  value.  And  Beth  Hillel  changed  their  decision  and 
yielded  to  that  of  Beth  Shammai.  (Hence  we  see  that  in  sucli 
a  case  the  law  of  concession  applies  ?)  Here  it  is  different,  as 
the  concession  is  not  an  even  one  for  both  partners;  for  the 
bondsman  can  only  demand  of  the  master  to  accept  half  his 
value  for  freeing  him ;  but  the  master  cannot  demand  of  the 
bondsman  to  sell  him  his  free  half,  as  this  is  against  the  law. 

Another  objection  was  raised :  Two  brothers,  one  of  them 
rich  and  the  other  poor,  inherit  from  their  father  a  bath-  or  a 
press-house.  If  it  is  rented  to  somebody,  they  must  certainly 
divide  the  rent;  but  if  the  bath  was  made  for  their  private  use. 


40  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

the  rich  brother  can  say  to  the  poor  one :  You  may  hire  or  buy 
servants  who  will  prepare  the  bath  for  your  use,  but  I  will  not 
pay  for  half  the  work,  or  buy  olives  and  press  them  in  the  press- 
house.  (Hence  we  see  that  the  law  of  concession  does  not 
apply  ?)  Here  also  the  concession  is  not  even,  as  the  poor  one 
has  no  money  to  offer  to  pay  for  his  share  in  the  inheritance. 
Come  and  hear  another  objection  from  our  Mishna.  "  If,  after 
the  subdivision,  each  part  can  retain  its  former  name,"  etc., 
but  if  not,  it  must  be  appraised  in  money  and  one  of  the  part- 
ners must  concede  his  share  to  the  other  when  he  is  paid. 
(Hence  the  law  of  concession  applies  ?)  On  this  point  Tanaim 
differ,  as  we  have  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha:  "  If  one  of 
the  partners  says  to  the  other:  '  Take  your  share  in  full,  and 
1  will  take  the  remainder,'  he  must  be  listened  to.  R.  Simeon 
b.  Gamaliel,  however,  says  that  he  must  not." 

Now  let  us  see.  If  the  case  be  similar  to  that  of  our  Mishna, 
why  should  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  object  ?  We  must  say, 
then,  that  the  Boraitha  cited  is  not  complete,  and  it  should  read 
thus:  "  You  take  the  prescribed  quantity  for  your  share,  and 
I  will  take  the  remainder;  or,  I  will  concede  or  else  you  con- 
cede " — he  is  to  be  listened  to.  And  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel 
said:  "  Nay."  Hence  Tanaim  differ.  The  case  maybe  similar 
to  that  quoted  in  our  Mishna,  and  the  reason  of  R.  Simeon  why 
he  must  not  be  listened  to,  is  this:  He  may  claim:  "  I  have  no 
money  to  pay  for  your  share,  and  I  do  not  want  to  accept  a 
present  from  you."  As  it  is  written  [Prov.  xv.  27]:  "  He  that 
hateth  gifts  shall  live." 

Said  Abayi  to  R.  Joseph:  R.  Jehudah's  decision,  that  the 
law  of  concession  applies,  is  in  accordance  with  Samuel,  who 
said,  concerning  the  Holy  Writ,  that  if  it  was  a  property  of  two 
partners  "  it  must  not  be  divided  even  when  both  agree,"  the 
case  being  only  when  it  was  bound  in  one  volume;  but  if  bound 
in  two  parts,  they  may.  And  this  can  also  be  correct  when  the 
law  of  concession  does  not  apply;  for  if  it  were  applied,  then 
there  would  be  no  difference  whether  bound  in  one  or  in  two 
parts.  R.  Shalman,  however,  explained  the  decision  of  Samuel: 
When  both  partners  agree  to  divide. 

Amemar  said:  The  law  of  concession  is  to  be  applied.  Said 
R.  Ashi  to  him :  And  what  about  R.  Nah'man's  decision  ?  And 
he  said:  I  do  not  hold  with  him.  "  Is  that  so?  Did  it  not 
happen  to  Rabba  and  R.  Dimi,  the  sons  of  Hinna,  that  their 
father  bequeathed  unto  them  two  female  slaves,  one  of  them 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  41 

able  to  cook  and  bake,  and  the  other  to  spin  and  weave;  and 
they  came  before  Rabha,  and  he  decided  that  the  law  of  con- 
cession did  not  apply  here?"  "There  was  another  reason; 
viz.,  both  brothers  needed  the  services  of  both  slaves.  And  to 
decide,  '  You  take  one  and  I  take  the  other,'  would  not  be  the 
law  of  concession."  But  did  not  Samuel  decide  that  when 
bound  in  two  parts  they  might  divide  ?  It  is  already  ex- 
plained above  that  he  speaks  of  a  case  when  both  partners  are 
willing  to  do  so. 

The  rabbis  taught :  One  may  attach  the  Pentateuch  to  the 
Prophets,  and  both  to  the  Hagiographa,  and  keep  them  in  one 
volume.  So  is  the  decree  of  R.  Meir.  R.  Jehudah,  however, 
said:  "  Each  of  them  is  to  be  kept  separately."  The  sages 
said,  furthermore,  that  the  book  of  each  Prophet  must  be  kept 
separately.  Said  R.  Jehudah :  It  happened  with  Beithus  b. 
Zonin,  that  he  had  eight  books  of  the  Prophets  attached 
together,  with  the  permission  of  R.  Elazar  b.  Azariah.  Ac- 
cording to  others,  however,  he  had  the  books,  but  they  were 
each  of  them  kept  separately.  Said  Rabbi:  It  happened  once 
that  the  Pentateuch,  Prophets,  and  Hagiographa,  attached  to 
one  another,  were  brought  to  us,  and  we  approved  it. 

After  each  book  of  the  Pentateuch,  four  lines  must  be  left 
blank  when  copying.  The  law  is  the  same  regarding  each  book 
of  the  Prophets ;  except  in  the  case  of  the  books  of  the  Twelve 
Prophets,  three  lines  after  each  is  sufificient  to  be  left  blank. 
However,  if  one  book  ends  at  the  bottom  of  the  page,  the  next 
book  may  be  begun  right  at  the  top  of  the  next  page  without 
leaving  any  lines  blank. 

The  rabbis  taught:  "  If  one  wishes  to  attach  the  scrolls  of 
the  Pentateuch,  Prophets,  and  Hagiographa  to  one  another,  he 
may  do  so,  provided  he  leaves  a  whole  page  blank  at  the  begin- 
ning, and  at  the  end  enough  blank  space  to  wrap  around  the 
entire  scroll ;  and  he  may  begin  a  new  book  at  the  top  of  a  page 
when  the  previous  book  ends  at  the  bottom  of  the  page  preced- 
ing. And  if  he  wishes  to  separate  the  books  afterwards,  he  may 
do  so."  How  is  this  to  be  understood  ?  It  is  self-evident  that 
a  separate  book  is  better  than  if  attached.  It  means  to  say  one 
may  begin  at  the  top  of  the  page;  as  then,  if  he  decides  to 
separate  the  books,  it  will  be  easier  for  him  to  do  so.  There  is 
a  contradiction  in  the  following  Boraitha,  which  states:  "  There 
must  be  blank  space  at  the  beginning  and  at  the  end  of  each 
book,  sufficient  to  wrap  it  up."     To  wrap  what  up  ?     Around 


42  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

the  whole  book  ?  Then  it  contradicts  the  former  Boraitha  which 
states  that  at  the  beginning  one  page  is  sufficient;  and  if  it 
means  only  one  page,  then  it  contradicts  the  above,  which  states 
"enough  at  the  end  to  wrap  around  the  book"?  Said  R. 
Nah'man  b.  Itz'hak:  This  Boraitha  also  means  to  leave  blank 
space  at  the  beginning  and  at  the  end,  as  prescribed.  R.  Ashi, 
however,  said :  The  latter  Boraitha  speaks  of  the  Holy  Scrolls, 
as  we  have  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha:  "  All  scrolls  are 
rolled  (around  one  holder)  from  right  to  left;  the  Holy  Scrolls 
are  rolled  towards  the  middle  (and  must  be  attached  to  two 
holders);  and  a  blank  page  must  be  left  both  at  the  beginning 
and  at  the  end."  And  R.  Eliezer  b.  R.  Zadok  said:  So  wrote 
the  scribes  of  Jerusalem  their  Holy  Scrolls. 

The  rabbis  taught:  The  length  of  the  Holy  Scrolls  must  not 
exceed  the  circumference  ;  nor  must  the  latter  exceed  the  length. 

Rabbi  was  questioned  about  the  prescribed  dimensions  of  the 
Holy  Scrolls.  He  answered:  Six  spans  in  length  when  written 
on  double  parchment  will  be  equal  to  the  circumference;  and 
when  on  ordinary  parchment,  I  do  not  know  what  length. 

R.  Pluna  wrote  seventy  Pentateuchs,  and  in  only  one  of 
them  the  length  happened  to  be  equal  to  the  circumference. 
R.  A'ha  b.  Jacob  wrote  only  one,  on  calf-skin,  and  the  measure- 
ments happened  to  be  just  as  prescribed;  and  the  rabbis  cast 
their  eyes  upon  him,  and  he  died. 

[Said  the  rabbis  to  R.  Hamnunah:  Is  it  true  that  R.  Ammi 
wrote  four  hundred  Pentateuchs  ?  And  he  answered:  Perhaps 
he  wrote  only  one  verse  [Deut.  xxxiii.  4]:  "The  law  which 
Moses  commanded  us,  is  the  inheritance  of  the  congregation  of 
Jacob,"  four  hundred  times.  Similarly  to  this,  Rabha  ques- 
tioned R.  Zera:  Is  it  true  that  R.  Janai  had  planted  four  hun- 
dred vineyards  ?  And  he  answered :  Perhaps  such  as  contain 
five  trees,  two  on  each  side  and  one  behind  (which,  in  regard  to 
the  law  of  Kilaim,  is  considered  a  vineyard).] 

An  objection  was  raised :  The  ark  which  was  made  by  Moses 
was  two  and  a  half  ells  in  length,  one  and  a  half  in  width,  and 
one  and  a  half  in  height:  all  these  measurements  were  taken 
with  an  ell  of  six  spans.  The  tablets  which  were  brought  down 
by  Moses  were  six  spans  square  and  three  spans  thick:  they 
were  placed  in  the  ark  lengthwise.  Now,  how  much  space  did 
the  tablets  occupy  in  the  ark  ?  Twelve  spans.  Then  three 
spans  of  space  were  left.  Take  off  one  span  for  the  two  walls 
of  the  ark,  each  of  which  was  half  a  span,  then  two  spans'  space 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  43 

was  left,  where  the  Holy  Scrolls  were  placed.  As  it  is  written 
[I  Kings,  viii.  9]:  "  There  was  nothing  in  the  ark  save  the  two 
tables  of  stone,"  etc.  The  expressions  "  nothing  "  and  "  save  " 
are  an  exclusion  after  an  exclusion  ;  and  there  is  a  rule  that  where 
such  is  to  be  found,  it  means  an  inclusion ;  and  here  the  Holy 
Scrolls  are  included,  which  were  in  the  ark.  Now  the  length  of 
the  ark  is  accounted  for.  How  is  the  width  to  be  accounted 
for  ?  The  tablets  occupied  six  spans  in  width ;  and  from  the 
remaining  three  one  span  must  be  deducted  for  the  two  walls. 
This  leaves  two  spans  of  empty  space,  to  the  end  that  the  Holy 
Scrolls  should  not  be  crushed  while  being  taken  out  or  returned. 
So  said  R.  Mair.  R.  Jehudah,  however,  maintains  that  the  ell 
was  of  five  spans.  The  tablets,  which  were  six  spans  square 
and  three  thick,  were  placed  in  the  ark  lengthwise,  and  occupied 
twelve  spans,  thus  leaving  only  one-half  span  of  space:  one 
finger  (a  quarter  of  a  span)  for  each  wall.  This  is  for  the  length. 
As  to  the  width,  the  tablets  occupied  six  spans;  and  from  the 
remaining  space  of  one  and  a  half  spans  take  off  half  a  span — 
one  and  a  half  fingers*  for  each  wall — leaving  then  one  span; 
and  this  was  occupied  by  the  pillars.  As  it  is  written  [Solo- 
mon's Song,  iii.  9  and  10]:  "  The  pillars  thereof,"  etc.  And 
also  the  casket  in  which  the  Philistines  placed  the  gift  to  the 
God  of  Israel  was  put  alongside.  As  it  is  written  [I  Sam.  vi.  8]: 
"  Ye  must  put  in  a  casket  alongside  of  it,  and  then  send  it 
away,"  etc.  And  upon  the  casket  the  Holy  Scrolls  were 
placed.  As  it  is  written  [Deut.  xxxl.  26] :  "  Take  this  book  of 
the  law,  and  put  it  at  the  side  of  the  ark,"  etc.  We  see,  then, 
that  it  was  placed  at  the  side  and  not  within  the  ark.  But  what 
is  to  be  ijicluded  from  the  two  exclusions  mentioned  above  ?  The 
broken  tables,  which  were  first  broken  by  Moses.  Now,  if  it  is 
borne  in  mind  that  the  circumference  of  the  Holy  Scrolls  was 
six  spans,  its  diameter  must  have  been  two  spans,  as  there  is 
a  rule  that  everything  with  a  circumference  of  three  spans  has  a 
diameter  of  one  span.  Now,  as  it  was  said  above,  that  the 
Holy  Scrolls  were  rolled  toward  the  middle,  then  the  diameter 
must  exceed  two  spans,  for  the  space  in  the  middle  between  the 
two  rolls  could  not  be  reckoned  in  the  two  spans.  How,  then, 
could  it  get  in  ?  Said  R.  A'ha  b.  Jacob:  "The  Holy  Scrolls 
which  were  written  by  Moses  (of  which  the  king  read  the  por- 

*  "  One  and  a  half  fingers" — meaning  the  little  finger,  of  which  there  are  six  to 
a  span. 


44  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

tion  belonging  to  him,  and  the  high  priest  read  on  the  Day  of 
Atonement  in  the  court  of  the  Temple)  were  rolled  from  left  to 
right  only,  in  one  roll."  But  even  then,  how  can  you  put  in 
a  thing  which  is  two  spans  in  thickness  into  a  space  of  only  two 
spans  ?  Said  R.  Ashi:  "  A  piece  of  the  parchment  was  left  out 
from  the  roll,  so  that  it  could  be  put  in  the  two  spans,  and  what 
was  left  was  lying  on  the  top."  But  according  to  R.  Jehudah's 
theory,  where  were  the  Holy  Scrolls  placed  before  the  Philistines 
sent  the  casket  ?  A  little  board  was  attached  to  the  pillars,  and 
the  Holy  Scrolls  were  put  upon  it. 

The  rabbis  taught:  "  The  order  of  the  prophets  is  as  follows: 
Jehoshua,  Judges,  Samuel,  Kings,  Jeremiah,  Ezekiel,  Isaiah, 
and  the  Twelve  Prophets."  Let  us  see:  Hosea,  of  the  Twelve 
Prophets,  was  before  Isaiah,  as  it  is  written  [Hosea,  i.  2]:  "  The 
beginning  of  the  word  of  the  Lord,"  etc.  This  certainly  cannot 
be  understood  that  he  was  the  first  of  the  prophets  to  whom 
the  Lord  spoke  since  the  time  of  Moses,  as  there  were  many 
prophets  after  Moses  preceding  Hosea.  And  therefore  R. 
Johanan  explains  that  he  was  the  first  of  the  four  prophets  who 
prophesied  at  that  period;  viz.:  Hosea,  Isaiah,  Amos,  and 
Micah.  Hence  he  was  before  Isaiah.  Why  is  he  placed  after  ? 
Because  his  book  is  counted  among  the  Twelve,  among  whom 
were  Haggai,  Zechariah,  and  Malachi,  who  were  the  last  of  the 
prophets:  therefore  his  book  is  placed  together  with  theirs. 
But  why  was  the  book  of  Hosea  not  separated,  and  placed  first  ? 
Because  his  book  is  small,  and  if  it  were  placed  separately  it 
would  become  lost.  However,  was  not  Isaiah  before  Jeremiah 
and  Ezekiel  ?  Why  is  he  not  placed  first  ?  Because  "  Kings  " 
ends  with  the  destruction  of  the  Temple,  and  the  whole  book  of 
Jeremiah  speaks  of  the  destruction,  and  that  of  Ezekiel  at  the 
beginning  speaks  of  the  destruction  and  at  the  end  of  consola- 
tion, while  Isaiah's  entire  book  speaks  of  consolation:  destruc- 
tion was  put  next  to  destruction,  and  consolation  next  to 
consolation. 

The  order  of  the  Hagiographa  is  as  follows:  Ruth,  Psalms, 
Job,  Proverbs,  Ecclesiastes,  Song  of  Solomon,  Lamentations, 
Daniel,  Book  of  Esther,  Book  of  Ezra,  and  Chronicles.* 

•  Rashi  explains  the  reasons  of  the  order  of  the  Hagiographa,  which,  in  his  opin- 
ion, was  arranged  in  order  of  time,  and  maintains  that  Job  was  written  after  Ruth 
and  Psalms,  the  two  latter  having  been  written,  according  to  him,  by  David  ;  and 
concerning  the  Songs,  he  says  :  "  It  seems  to  me  that  Solomon  said  or  wrote  them 
in  his  old  age."     However,  the  order  of  our  Scriptures  is  different,  and  they  are  cer- 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  45 

And  who  wrote  all  the  books  ?  Moses  wrote  his  book  and 
a  portion  of  Bil'am  [Numbers,  xxii.],  and  Job.  Jehoshua  wrote 
his  book  and  the  last  eight  verses  of  the  Pentateuch  beginning: 
"And  Moses,  the  servant  of  the  Lord,  died."  Samuel  wrote 
his  book.  Judges,  and  Ruth.  David  wrote  Psalms,  with  the 
assistance  of  ten  elders,  viz. :  Adam  the  First,  Malachi  Zedek, 
Abraham,  Moses,  Hyman,  Jeduthun,  Asaph,  and  the  three  sons 
of  Korach.  Jeremiah  wrote  his  book,  Kings,  and  Lamenta- 
tions. King  Hezekiah  and  his  company  wrote  Isaiah,  Proverbs, 
Songs,  and  Ecclesiastes.  The  men  of  the  great  assembly  wrote 
Ezekiel,  the  Twelve  Prophets,  Daniel,  and  the  Book  of  Esther. 
Ezra  wrote  his  book,  and  Chronicles — the  order  of  all  genera- 
tions down  to  himself.  [This  may  be  a  support  to  Rabh's  the- 
ory, as  to  which,  R.  Jehudah  said  in  his  name,  that  Ezra  had 
not  ascended  from  Babylon  to  Palestine  until  he  wrote  his 
genealogy.]  And  who  finished  Ezra's  book  ?  Nehemiah  ben 
Chachalyah. 

There  is  a  Boraitha  in  accordance  with  him  who  said  that  the 
last  eight  verses  of  the  Torah  were  written  by  Joshua;  namely: 
"  It  is  written  [Deut.  xxxvi.  5]:  '  And  Moses  the  servant  of  the 
Lord  died,'  etc.  Is  it  possible  that  Moses  himself  should  have 
written  '  and  he  died  '  ?  Therefore  it  must  be  said  that  up  to 
this  verse  Moses  wrote,  and  from  this  verse  forward  Joshua 
wrote.  So  said  R.  Joshua,  according  to  others  R.  Nehemiah." 
Said  R.  Simeon  to  him:  Is  it  possible  that  the  Holy  Scrolls 
should  not  have  been  complete  to  the  last  letter,  and  neverthe- 
less it  should  read  [ibid.,  xxxi.  26]:  "Take  this  book  of  the 
law,"  etc.  Therefore,  we  must  say  that  up  to  this  verse  the 
Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  dictated,  and  Moses  repeated  and 
wrote  it  down ;  and  from  this  verse  forward  He  dictated,  and 
Moses  with  tears  in  his  eyes  wrote  it  down ;  as  thus  it  is  read 
[Jer.  xxxvi.  18]:  "Then  said  Baruch  unto  them.  With  his 
mouth  did  he  utter  clearly  all  these  words  unto  me,  and  I  wrote 
them  in  the  book  with  ink." 

According  to  whom,  then,  is  the  following— that  R.  Joshua 
b.  Aba,  in  the  name  of  R.  Gidel,  quoting  Rabh,  said:  "  The 
last  eight  verses  of  the  Pentateuch,  when  read  from  the  Holy 
Scrolls,  must  be  read  by  one  person  without  any  interruption  "  ? 

tainly  not  in  the  order  of  time,  as  modern  critics  ascribe  a  much  later  period  of  time 
to  'almost  all  the  books,  and  we  are  still  ignorant  of  the  reason  why  the  order  was 
changed  in  the  canons  we  possess  from  that  in  the  Talmud,  and  who  it  was  that  sub- 
stituted the  existing  order. 


40  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Should  it  not  be  in  accordance  with  R.  Simeon  ?  It  may  be 
also  in  accordance  with  R.  Simeon ;  and  the  reason  for  the  ex- 
ception of  these  eight  verses  is  because,  as  there  was  already 
a  change  at  the  writing  by  Moses  (as  said  above),  the  change  is 
made  also  here.  "  Joshua  wrote  his  book  " ;  but  is  it  not  writ- 
ten there:  "  And  Joshua  died  "  ?  This  was  written  by  Elazar. 
But  is  it  not  written  there:  "  And  Elazar  died  "  ?  The  book 
was  finished  by  his  son  Pinchas. 

"Samuel  wrote  his  book."  But  is  it  not  written:  "And 
Samuel  died  "  ?  The  book  was  finished  by  Gad  the  seer  and 
Nathan  the  prophet. 

"  David  wrote  the  Psalms,"  etc.  But  why  did  the  Boraitha 
not  enumerate  also  Ethan  the  Ezrachite  ?  Said  Rabh :  "The 
latter  and  Abraham  are  identical."  It  enumerates  Moses,  and 
also  Hyman ;  did  not  Rabh  say  that  by  Hyman  is  meant  Moses  ? 
There  were  two  Hymans. 

"  Moses  wrote  his  book,"  etc.  This  is  a  support  to  R.  Levy 
b.  Lachma,  who  said  that  Job  lived  in  the  time  of  Moses.* 
Rabha,  however,  said:  Job  lived  in  the  time  of  the  spies  which 
were  sent  by  Moses  to  investigate  Palestine. 

One  of  the  rabbis  was  sitting  before  R.  Samuel  b.  Na'hmeni 
and  said:  Job  never  existed;  and  is  mentioned  in  the  Scripture 
only  for  an  example.  Said  he  to  him :  The  Scripture  is  against 
your  theory,  as  it  states  plainly  [Job,  i.  i  ]  :  "  There  was  a  man," 
etc.  But  according  to  your  theory  it  is  also  written  [II  Sam. 
xii.  3]:  *'  But  the  poor  man  had  nothing,"  etc.  Was  it  so  hi 
reality  ?  It  was  written  only  for  an  example !  The  same  may 
be  said  concerning  Job  ?  If  it  were  so,  why,  then,  his  name  and 
the  name  of  the  country  he  came  from  ? 

R.  Johanan  and  R.  Elazar  both  said  that  Job  was  among  the 
ancestors  of  the  Babylonian  exiles;  and  his  college  was  in 
Tiberias. 

An  objection  was  raised:  There  is  a  Boraitha:  "  Job's  age 
was  from  the  time  when  Israel  came  to  Egypt  until  he  left  it." 
Read:  "  As  many  years  as  the  Israelites  were  in  Egypt."  An- 
other objection  was  raised.  There  were  seven  prophets  who 
have  prophesied  to  the  nations,  viz.  :  Bil'am  and  his  father, 
Job,  Eliphaz  the  Themanitc,  Bildad  the  Shuchite,  Zophar  the 
Na'amathite,  and  Elihu  ben   Barachel  the   Buzite.     (Hence  we 

*  His  support  is  from  an  analogy  of  expression  ;  and  the  Gemara  discusses  the 
analogy,  but  it  is  too  complicated,  and  therefore  omitted.  The  same  is  the  case  with 
the  saying  of  Rabha  farther  on. 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  47 

see  that  Job  was  a  Gentile  ?)  And  according  to  your  theory, 
was  then  Elihu,  just  mentioned,  a  Gentile  ?  He  was  certainly 
an  Israelite,  as  it  is  written,  "  of  the  family  of  Ram."  And 
why  is  he  called  a  prophet  of  the  nations  ?  Because  his  prophe- 
cies were  for  the  nations.  The  same  can  be  said  concerning 
Job.  But  did  not  the  Jewish  prophets  also  prophesy  for  the 
nations  ?  The  Jewish  prophets  prophesied  to  Israel,  and  to  the 
nations  also,  but  the  above-mentioned  seven  have  prophesied 
for  the  nations  only. 

There  is  an  objection  from  the  following :  A  pious  man  was 
among  the  nations,  and  Job  was  his  name;  and  he  came  to  this 
world  only  for  the  purpose  of  receiving  his  reward.  The  Holy 
One,  blessed  be  He,  however,  brought  chastisements  upon  him, 
and  he  began  to  blaspheme ;  the  Lord  then  doubled  his  reward 
in  this  world,  so  that  he  should  have  no  share  in  the  world  to 
come.  (Hence  we  see  that  Job  was  a  Gentile  ?)  On  this  point 
Tanaim  of  the  following  Boraitha  differ:  R.  Elazar  said:  Job 
was  in  the  time  of  the  Judges;  as  it  is  written  [Job,  xxvii.  12]: 
"  .  .  .  deal  in  such  vanities  ?"  And  which  generation  was 
one  entirely  of  vanities  ?  It  is  the  generation  of  the  Judges. 
R.  Joshua  b.  Karha  said:  Job  was  in  the  time  of  Ahasuerus;  as 
it  is  written  [Job,  xlii.  15]:  "And  there  were  not  found  such 
handsome  women  as  the  daughters  of  Job,"  etc.  And  in  which 
generation  were  handsome  women  searched  for,  if  not  in  the 
generation  of  Ahasuerus  ?  [But  perhaps  it  was  in  the  time  of 
David,  when  handsome  women  were  also  searched  for  [I  Kings, 
i.  3]  ?  There  they  searched  only  among  the  daughters  of  Israel, 
but  in  the  time  of  Ahasuerus  it  is  written,  "  in  all  the  land."] 
R.  Nathan  said  that  Job  was  in  the  time  of  the  Queen  of  Sheba, 
as  it  is  written  [Job,  i.  15] :  "  When  the  Sabeans  made  an  incur- 
sion." [And  R.  Samuel  b.  Na'hmenisaid  in  the  name  of  R.Jona- 
than :  He  who  translates  Malchas  Sheba  "  the  queen  of  Sheba  " 
is  in  error,  as  the  right  translation  is  "  the  government  of 
Sheba."]  And  the  sages  said:  He  was  in  the  time  of  the  Chal- 
dea,  as  it  is  written  [ibid.,  ibid.  17]:  "The  Chaldeans  posted 
themselves,"  etc.  Still  others  said  that  Job  was  in  the  time  of 
Jacob  and  has  married  Dinah,  Jacob's  daughter.  (They  infer 
it  from  an  analogy  of  expression,  Neda/a.)  And  all  the  just 
mentioned  sages  hold  that  Job  was  an  Israelite,  except  the  last, 
who  maintains  that  he  was  a  Gentile.  R.  Johanan  said:  It  is 
written  [Ruth,  i.  i]:  "And  it  came  to  pass  in  the  days  when 
the  judges  judged,"  etc.     It  means  it  was  a  generation  that 


4S  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

judged  the  judges.  If,  e.g.,  the  judge  said  to  them:  "  Take  out 
the  toothpick  from  thy  tooth,"  they  answered:  "  If  thou  wilt 
take  the  beam  out  of  thy  eyes,  I  will  remove  the  toothpick." 
If,  e.g.y  the  judge  said  to  one:  "  Thy  silver  is  become  dross," 
the  answer  was:  "  Thy  wine  is  drugged  with  water"  [Is.  i.  22] 
{i.e.,  if  the  judge  accused  one  of  a  small  transgression,  the 
accused  said  to  him:  "  Thou  thyself  art  a  greater  sinner  than 
I  am  "). 

It  is  written  [Job,  i.  6-9]:  "...  that  the  accuser  (Satan) 
also  came  in  the  midst  of  them,"  etc.  Satan  said  before  the 
Lord:  "  I  have  sped  all  over  the  world,  and  found  no  trusty 
man  like  thy  servant  Abraham,  to  whom  thou  didst  say  [Gen. 
xiii.  17] :  '  Arise,  walk  through  the  land  in  the  length  of  it  and 
in  the  breadth  of  it;  for  unto  thee  will  I  give  it.'  And  not- 
withstanding this,  when  he  searched  for  a  grave  to  bury  his  wife 
Sarah,  and  did  not  find  one  until  he  bought  it  for  four  hundred 
silver  shekels,  he  did  not  murmur  or  bear  in  mind  anything 
against  thee."  "  Then  said  the  Lord  to  Satan,"  etc.  Said 
R.  Johanan :  That  which  was  said  about  Job  is  more  important 
than  that  which  was  said  about  Abraham,  as  regarding  the  latter 
it  is  written  [ibid.,  xxii.  12]:  "  Now  I  know  that  thou  fearest 
God,"  etc.  And  regarding  the  former  it  is  written  [Job,  i.  i]  : 
"  And  this  man  was  perfect  and  upright,  and  fearing  God  and 
eschewing  evil."  What  is  meant  by  "  eschewing  evil  "  ?  Said 
R.  Aba  b.  Samuel:  Job  was  liberal  with  his  money;  it  is  cus- 
tomary, if  a  laborer  has  done  some  service  to  the  value  of  half 
the  smallest  coin,  that  the  employer  takes  him  to  the  store- 
keeper, buys  something  for  this  coin,  and  gives  the  laborer  the 
half  due  him.  Job,  however,  gave  him  the  whole  coin  for  such 
services.  "  Then  Satan  answered,  Is  it  for  nought  that  Job 
feareth  God  ?  .  .  .  the  work  of  his  hands  hast  thou  blessed." 
What  does  this  mean  ?  Said  R.  Samuel  b.  R.  Itz'hak:  "  Any 
one  who  took  a  coin  from  Job  for  business,  has  succeeded." 
And  what  means,  "  And  his  cattle  are  far  spread  out  in  the 
land"  ?  Said  R.  Jose  b.  Hanina:  His  cattle  have  changed  the 
order  of  the  world.  Usually  wolves  kill  goats;  Job's  goats, 
however,  killed  wolves. 

"  But  only  stretch  forth  thy  hand,"  etc.  [ibid.  11-19]: 
"  The  oxen  were  ploughing,  and  the  she  asses  were  feeding  be- 
side them."  How  is  this  to  be  understood  ?  Said  R.  Johanan: 
From  this  is  to  be  inferred  that  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He, 
gave  Job  a  foretaste  of  the  world  to  come  (as  about  the  world 


TRACT   BABA    BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  49 

to  come  it  is  written  [Jer.  xxxi.]  that  pregnancy  and  birth  in 
a  woman  occurred  together).  "  A  fire  of  God,"  etc.  [to  ii.  5]. 
Satan  again  answered  the  Lord,  as  said  above. 

"  And  Thou  hast  incited  me  against  him,"  etc.  Said  R. 
Johanan :  If  this  were  not  written  it  would  be  impossible  for 
a  human  being  to  conceive  it :  the  Scripture  speaks  of  the  Lord 
as  if  He  were  a  human  being  who  can  be  influenced  through 
incitement. 

There  is  a  Boraitha:  Satan  descends  and  tempts  human 
beings;  then  ascends  and  accuses  them;  then  takes  the  order 
and  takes  the  soul  of  him  whom  he  has  tempted. 

"  Then  the  accuser  answered  the  Lord,"  etc.  [ibid.,  ibid. 
4-8].  Said  R.  Itz'hak:  Satan  was  more  afflicted  than  Job  him- 
self. It  is  similar  to  a  master  who  says  to  his  servant:  "  Break 
the  barrel,  but  save  the  wine  "  (without  letting  him  have  a  ves- 
sel to  save  it  in).  So  was  it  with  Satan ;  the  Lord  told  him  to 
take  Job's  body,  but  to  save  his  soul.  Said  Resh  Lakish:  From 
this  we  see  that  he  who  is  called  Satan  is  himself  the  evil  spirit 
who  tempts  one  to  sin;  and  he  himself  is  the  Angel  of  Death,  as 
he  was  told  to  save  the  life :  from  which  it  is  to  be  seen  that  the 
life  of  man  was  in  his  hands. 

R.  Levi  said :  Satan  and  Peninnah  both  intended  (with  their 
accusation)  to  please  heaven.  Satan,  who  had  seen  that  the 
Lord  was  favorable  toward  Job,  feared  that  through  the  justice 
of  Job  Abraham's  merits  would  be  forgotten,  and,  therefore,  he 
spoke  as  above.  And  Peninnah,  as  it  is  written  [I  Sam.  i.  6]: 
"  And  her  rival  also  provoked  her  continually,  in  order  to  make 
her  fret,"  etc.  It  means  for  the  purpose  of  making  her  pray 
and  have  a  child.  R.  A'ha  lectured  the  same  in  the  city  of 
Papuniah,  and  Satan  came  and  kissed  his  feet  for  this. 

"  With  all  this,  did  not  Job  sin  with  his  lips."  Said  Rabha: 
"With  his  lips  he  did  not  sin,  but  he  sinned  in  his  heart." 
What  was  it?  [Job,  ix.  24]:  "Is  a  land  given  up  to  the 
wicked?  He  covereth  the  faces  of  its  judges:  if  this  be  not  the 
truth,  who  is  it  then  ?"  *  Said  Rabha:  Job  was  about  to  turn 
the  dish  face  downwards  {i.e.,  to  deny  the  might  of  the  Lord). 

*  This  is  the  exact  translation  of  Leeser,  which  we  follow  in  our  edition.  The 
Bible  commentaries  differ  in  the  explanation  of  this  passage,  which  is  very  compli- 
cated, and  Leeser,  following  one  of  them,  explains  it  all  as  a  question.  The  latest 
commentator.  Dr.  Benjamin  Szold  of  Baltimore,  interprets  it  according  to  the  Tal- 
mud, that  the  first  half  should  not  be  understood  as  a  question,  but  as  a  fact ;  and  it 
seems  to  us  he  is  right. 
4 


50  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

Said  Abayi  to  him  :  Job  spoke  only  about  Satan.  On  this  point 
Tanaim  differ.  About  the  just  cited  verse  R.  Elazar  said:  Job 
was  about  to  turn  the  dish  face  downwards.  And  R.  Joshua 
said  to  him:  Job  spoke  only  with  regard  to  Satan.  It  is  writ- 
ten [ibid.  X.  7]:  "  Still  it  is  within  thy  knowledge  that  I  am 
not  wicked,  and  there  is  none  that  can  deliver  me  out  of  thy 
hand."  Said  Rabha:  Job  wanted  to  free  the  whole  world  of 
a  trial.  He  said  thus:  Lord  of  the  Universe,  Thou  hast  created 
an  ox  with  parted  hoofs,  and  us  without  (and  Thou  hast  com- 
manded that  only  creatures  with  the  parted  hoofs  shall  be  eaten, 
but  Thou  couldst  have  made  it  the  reverse).  Thou  hast  cre- 
ated Paradise,  and  Thou  hast  created  Gehenna;  Thou  hast 
created  the  upright,  and  Thou  hast  created  the  wicked.  Who 
can  prevent  Thee  ?  (Hence  no  reward  and  no  punishment 
should  be  dealt,  as  all  was  done  according  to  Thy  will!)  And 
what  have  Job's  colleagues  answered  to  this?  [ibid.  xv.  4]: 
"  Yea,  thou  truly  makest  void  the  fear  (of  God),  and  diminish- 
est  devotion  before  God."  Which  means  that  the  Holy  One, 
blessed  be  He,  has  created  the  evil  spirit,  and  He  has  created 
wisdom  as  a  remedy  against  him. 

Rabha  lectured:  It  is  written  [ibid.  xxix.  13]:  "  The  bless- 
ing of  him  that  was  ready  to  perish  came  upon  me;  and  the 
heart  of  the  widow  I  caused  to  sing  for  joy."  From  the  first 
half  of  this  verse  we  learn  that  he  used  to  rob  a  field  belonging 
to  orphans,  improved  it,  and  returned  it  to  them ;  and  in  the 
latter  half  we  learn  that  if  there  was  a  widow  whom  no  one 
wished  to  marry,  he  put  his  name  upon  her,  saying  that  she 
was  his  relative,  and  then  it  was  easy  for  her  to  marry.  It  is 
written  [ibid.  vi.  2]:  "  Oh,  that  my  vexation  could  be  truly 
weighed,  and  my  calamity,"  etc.  It  was  said  by  or  to  Rabh: 
The  earth  may  cover  Job's  mouth  for  this.  He  makes  himself 
a  comrade  of  providence  [ibid.  ix.  33]:  "  There  is  no  one  who 
can  decide  between  us,  who  could  lay  his  hand  upon  us  both." 
Said  Rabha:  For  this  also  his  mouth  may  be  covered  with 
earth:  should  a  slave  rebuke  his  master?  [ibid.  xxxi.  i] :  "A 
covenant  had  I  made  with  my  eyes:  how,  then,  should  I  fix  my 
look  on  a  virgin?"  Said  Rabha:  He  had  not  looked  upon 
strange  women,  but  Abraham  had  not  looked  even  at  his  own 
wife;  as  it  is  written  [Gen.  xii.  11]:  "Now  I  know  that  thou 
art  a  woman  of  handsome  appearance,"  from  which  it  is  to  be 
inferred  that  before  that  time  he  knew  not  that. 

[Job,  vii.  9]:  "As  the  cloud  vanisheth  and  passeth  away: 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  51 

so  will  he  that  goeth  down  to  the  nether  world  not  come  up 
again."  Said  Rabha:  From  this  we  see  that  Job  denied  resur- 
rection. [Ibid.  ix.  17]:  "  He  that  bruiseth  me  with  his  tem- 
pest, and  multiplieth  my  wounds  without  a  cause."  Said 
Rabba:  Job  has  blasphemed  by  the  tempest,  and  by  the  tem- 
pest he  was  answered.  Blasphemed  by  the  tempest — as  he 
said:  "  Lord  of  the  Universe!  Perhaps  a  tempest  passed  before 
Thee  and  changed  to  Thee  the  word  lyabh  to  Oyabh. ' '  *  And  by 
the  tempest  he  was  answered — as  it  is  written  [ibid,  xxxviii.  i]: 
"  Then  did  the  Lord  address  Job  out  of  the  storm-wind.  .  .  . 
Do  but  gird  up  like  a  mighty  man  thy  loins:  and  I  will  ask 
thee,  and  do  thou  inform  me." 

So  said  He:  "I  have  created  many  hairs  on  human  beings, 
and  for  each  hair  I  have  created  a  separate  hole;  for  if  two 
should  be  nourished  from  one  hole,  it  would  blind  the  eyes  of 
men;  now  from  one  hole  to  another  it  was  not  changed  to 
me;  and  from  lyabh  to  Oyabh,  should  it  be  changed  ?  "  [Ibid., 
ibid.  25]:  "  Who  hath  divided  off  water-courses,"  etc.  "  There 
are  many  drops  that  I  have  created  in  the  clouds,  and  for 
each  drop  there  is  a  separate  place;  for  if  two  drops  should 
go  into  one,  they  would  make  the  earth  too  soft,  and  it 
could  not  produce;  these  places  were  not  changed  to  me." 
"  .  .  .  And  a  way  for  the  lightning  (that  is  followed  by) 
thunders."  "  Many  thunders  have  I  created  in  the  clouds,  and 
for  each  thunder  there  is  a  separate  track;  for  if  two  should  go 
along  the  same  track,  they  would  destroy  the  world.  The  tracks 
were  not  changed  to  me ;  and  from  lyabh  to  Oyabh,  should  it 
be?"  [Ibid,  xxxix.  i]  :  "  Knowest  thou  the  time  when  the 
chamois  of  the  rock  bring  forth  ?  "  "  The  chamois  of  the  rock 
is  cruel  towards  its  offspring,  and  when  the  time  of  bearing 
comes  she  ascends  to  the  top  of  the  mountain,  so  that  the  off- 
spring should  fall  and  die.  And  I  send  an  eagle  which  receives 
it  with  its  wings."  "  Markest  thou  when  the  hinds  do  calve  ? " 
"  The  hind  has  a  narrow  womb,  and  when  the  time  of  bearing 
comes,  I  procure  a  snake  that  bites  her  in  the  womb,  so  that 
she  is  able  to  bring  forth  the  offspring.  In  both  cases  it  must 
happen  at  the  exact  moment ;  for  if  it  occurs  a  second  before  or 
a  second  later,  the  young  in  the  first  case,  and  the  mother  in 
the  latter,   would  die.     Now,   from  one  second  to  the  other 


*  Job  in  Hebrew  is  spelled  lyabh  :  Oyabh  means  enemy  ;  and  this  means  that 
perhaps  the  vowels  were  changed,  thus  rendering,  instead  ol  Job,  enemy. 


52  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

there  never  is  a  change;  and  from  lyabh  to  Oyabh,  should  it  be 
changed?"  [Ibid,  xxxiv.  35]:  "Job  hath  not  spoken  with 
knowledge,  and  his  words  are  without  intelligence."  Said 
Rabha:  From  this  it  may  be  deduced  that  one  is  not  to  be 
made  responsible  for  hisVords  at  a  time  when  he  is  afflicted. 
[Ibid.  ii.  11-13]:  "  When,  now,  the  three  friends  of  Job  .  .  . 
and  they  met  together,"  etc.  What  is  meant  by  "  they  met 
together"  ?  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  They  all 
entered  at  one  time  the  gate  of  the  city  where  Job  lived; 
although  a  Boraitha  states  that  each  of  them  lived  three  hun- 
dred parsas  away  from  the  others.  But  who  informed  them  ? 
According  to  some,  each  of  them  had  a  crown  on  which  were 
engraved  the  pictures  of  his  three  colleagues;  and  if  one  of 
them  became  afflicted,  the  picture  was  changed.  And  accord- 
ing to  others,  they  had  in  their  garden  three  trees,  each  of  which 
bore  the  name  of  one  of  the  friends;  and  if  one  became  afflicted, 
the  tree  was  changed.  Said  Rabha:  This  is  what  people  say: 
"  Either  to  have  colleagues  like  Job's,  or  death." 

It  is  written  [Gen.  vi.  i]:  "  And  it  came  to  pass  when  men 
began  to  multiply  .  .  .  and  daughters,"  etc.  R.  Johanan 
said:  With  a  daughter,  multiplication  comes  into  the  world,  as 
in  Chaldaic  a  girl  is  called  rabhia ;  literally,  multiply.  Resh 
Lakish,  however,  maintains  that  with  a  daughter  strife  comes 
into  the  world,  as  rabhia  means  also  strife.  Said  Resh  Lakish 
to  R.  Johanan:  According  to  your  opinion,  multiplication  comes 
with  daughters;  why  was  not  Job  doubly  rewarded  with  daugh- 
ters, as  he  was  with  sons  and  with  all  his  property  ?  And  he 
answered :  Although  they  were  not  doubled  in  number,  they 
were  in  beauty;  as  it  is  written  [Job,  xlii.  13-15]:  "  He  had 
also  fourteen*  sons  and  three  daughters,"  etc.  And  farther  on 
it  is  written:  "And  there  were  not  found  such  handsome 
women,"  etc.f 

To  R.  Simeon,  Rabbi's  son,  a  daughter  was  born ;  and  he 
became  dejected.  Said  his  father  to  him :  With  thy  daughter 
came  multiplication  {rabhia).     Said  Bar  Kapara  to  him:    The 

♦  Shibha  in  Hebrew  means  seven  ;  so  it  is  written  in  Job  ii.  In  this  passage 
it  is  written  shibhnah,  which,  according  to  the  Talmud,  mtdiViS,  fourteeft ;  and  double 
what  was  before,  as  all  his  property  was  doubled.  Leeser  has  translated  seven, 
giving  no  attention  to  the  letter  nun  added  in  this  word. 

f  In  the  text  it  is  deduced  from  the  names  of  the  daughters  ;  e.g.,  Yememah, 
beautiful  as  the  day,  etc.  We  have  omitted  this,  as  it  is  difficult,  with  the  Hebrew 
words,  each  of  which  has  several  meanings,  to  point  out  which  meaning  it  bears, 
and  to  discuss  it.     And  it  is  also  unimportant. 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  S3 

consolation  of  your  father  is  very  poor.  The  following  Boraitha 
states:  "The  world  cannot  be  without  males  and  females. 
However,  happy  is  he  whose  children  are  male,  and  woe  to  him 
whose  children  are  female.  The  world  cannot  be  without  a 
spice  dealer  and  a  tanner  {burseus) ;  happy  is  he  who  is  a  spice 
dealer,  and  woe  to  him  who  is  a  tanner."  On  this  point,  how- 
ever, the  Tanaim  of  the  following  Boraitha  differ.  It  is  written 
[Gen.  xxiv.  i] :  "  The  Lord  has  blessed  Abraham  bakkol  {in  all 
things)."  What  does  the  word  bakhol  mean?  R.  Meir  said: 
He  was  blessed  in  not  having  any  daughters.  R.  Jehudah, 
however,  said:  He  was  blessed  in  having  a  daughter.  Anony- 
mous teachers  say:  He  had  a  daughter  with  the  name  ^^/^/f^/. 
R.  Elazar  the  Modai  said :  Abraham,  our  father,  was  an  astrolo- 
ger; and  therefore  all  the  kings  from  the  West  and  the  East 
came  to  his  door  to  ask  his  advice.*  R.  Simeon  b.  Johanan 
said:  A  diamond  was  hanging  on  Abraham's  neck,  and  when 
a  sick  man  looked  upon  it,  he  was  cured.  And  when  Abraham 
passed  away,  the  Lord  sealed  it  in  the  planet  of  the  sun.  Said 
Abayi:  This  is  what  people  say:  When  the  day  arrives,  the  sick 
become  better.  There  is  another  explanation  of  the  word  bakhol 
— that  as  long  as  Abraham  was  alive  Esau  did  not  rebel.  Ac- 
cording to  still  others:  "  Because  Ishmael  repented  in  his  days." 
That  Esau  did  not  rebel  in  his  days  is  stated  in  a  Boraitha  to 
explain  the  verses  Gen.  xxv.  29-34  as  referring  to  that  day  on 
which  Abraham  died.  And  that  Ishmael  had  repented  is  ex- 
plained by  Rabha,  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan,  to  Rabhina  and 
to  R.  Hama  b.  Buzi  thus:  It  is  written  [ibid.,  ibid.  9] :  "  And 
his  sons  Isaac  and  Ishmael,"  etc.  And  from  the  fact  that  Isaac 
is  named  first,  although  Ishmael  was  older,  it  is  to  be  under- 
stood that  Ishmael  had  repented  and,  knowing  that  Isaac  was 
better  than  he,  given  him  the  preference.  But  perhaps  the 
verse  only  does  it  because  it  was  so,  and  Ishmael  had  nothing 
to  do  with  it  ?  Then  the  Scripture  [ibid.  xxxv.  29]  would  also 
say  Jacob  and  Esau,  and  not  according  to  the  age,  as  it  is  now. 
Hence  the  previous  construction  is  correct. 

The  rabbis  taught:  There  are  three  to  whom  the  Holy 
One,  blessed  be  He,  gave  a  taste  of  the  world  to  come  in 
this  world;   namely,  Abraham,   Isaac,  and  Jacob:  Abraham— 


*  The  term  in  the  text  for  this  is  aizlagniniiih,  and  the  commentators  explain 
this  to  mean  astrologer.  According  to  Schonhak,  however,  it  is  composed  of  two 
Greek  words,  drsyoo,  voooo,  which  mean  one  who  can  fathom  the  mysteries  of 
mankind. 


54  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

because  regarding  him  is  written  bakJiol ;  Isaac — because  regard- 
ing him  is  written  mikJiol ;  and  Jacob — regarding  whom  is  writ- 
ten khol.  The  same  three  overruled  the  evil  spirit,  as  the  words 
just  mentioned  are  written  regarding  them. 

The  rabbis  taught:  There  are  six  whom  the  Angel  of  Death 
lias  not  dominated:  the  former  three,  and  Moses,  Aaron,  and 
Miriam — the  three  former,  because  of  the  words  mentioned; 
and  the  three  latter,  because  it  is  written  [Num.  xxxiii.  38] : 
"  By  the  order  of  the  Lord,"  etc.  There  are  seven  whom  the 
worms  have  not  devoured :  the  former  six,  and  Benjamin  ben 
Jacob;  according  to  others,  also  David — the  former  six,  because 
of  the  reasons  stated  above;  and  Benjamin,  because  it  is  written 
[Deut.  xxxiii.  12]:  "  The  beloved  of  the  Lord  (is  he),  he  shall 
dwell  in  safety,"  etc.  There  are  four  who  died  without  sin,  but 
because  it  was  so  decreed  at  the  time  when  the  serpent  made 
Eve  eat  the  fruit  of  the  tree  of  wisdom ;  viz.,  Benjamin  b.  Jacob, 
Amram  father  of  ]\Ioses,  Jesse  father  of  David,  and  Khilab  b. 
David — to  all  of  them  traditionally,  except  Jesse  the  father  of 
David,  which  is  also  deduced  from  the  verse.* 

*  This  also  is  deduced  from  different  verses  in  the  Scripture,  in  a  very  compli- 
cated way  which  would  be  of  no  interest  to  the  English  reader,  and  has  therefore 
been  omitted. 


CHAPTER   II. 

RULES  AND  REGULATIONS  CONCERNING  SPACE  TO  BE  LEFT  BETWEEN 
one's  property  and  another's,  be  it  of  ONE  OR  TWO  KINDS. 
UNDER  WHAT  CONDITIONS  A  TENANT  MAY  PLACE  AN  OVEN  IN 
HIS  DWELLING.  UNDER  WHAT  CIRCUMSTANCES  A  SHOP  IN  A 
YARD  MAY  BE  PREVENTED.  CONCERNING  THE  SPACE  TO  BE 
LEFT  BETWEEN  A  CITY  AND  PIGEON-COOPS,  TREES,  BARNS, 
CEMETERIES,    AND    TANNERIES. 

MISHNA  /.  :  One  must  not  dig  a  well  near  that  of  his  neigh- 
bor, nor  a  channel,  cave,  aqueduct,  or  basin  for  washing,  unless 
it  be  removed  to  a  distance  of  at  least  three  spans  from  that  of 
his  neighbor,  and  plastered  with  lime.  Olive  or  poppy  waste, 
dung,  salt,  lime,  and  flint-stones  must  also  be  removed  to  a  dis- 
tance of  three  spans,  and  must  be  covered  with  lime.  To  the 
same  distance,  seeds,  ploughing,  and  urine  must  be  removed 
from  the  wall ;  a  handmill  to  a  distance  of  three  spans  from  the 
lower  millstone,  v/hich  is  four  from  the  upper  millstone;  and  an 
oven  three  spans  from  the  foundation,  which  is  four  spans  from 
the  upper  rim. 

GEMARA:  The  Mishna  begins  with  a  well  and  ends  with 
a  wall  ?  Said  Abayi,  according  to  others,  R.  Jehuaah :  By 
the  term  "  wall  "  is  meant  the  wall  of  the  well.  But  then  it 
could  teach:  "  Unless  he  removes  it  from  the  well,"  and  it 
would  be  self-evident  that  the  meaning  is"  from  the  wall  of  the 
well  "  ?  The  Mishna  comes  to  teach  us  by  the  way  that  a  wall 
of  a  well  must  measure  no  less  than  three  spans,  in  cases  of  sell- 
ing and  buying,  as  we  have  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha: 
"  If  one  says,  *  I  am  selling  you  the  well  with  its  walls,'  the 
walls  must  measure  three  spans." 

It  was  taught:  If  one  comes  to  dig  a  well  at  the  boundary 
of  his  neighbor's  vacant  plot,  has  he  to  remove  it  to  the  distance 
mentioned  in  the  Mishna,  or  not  ?  According  to  Abayi  he  has 
not,  and  according  to  Rabha  he  has.  They  differ  with  regard 
to  a  plot  prepared  for  works  only;  but  if  it  is  not  prepared  for 
this,  they  both  agree  that  he  may  dig  at  the  boundary.     And 


56  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

even  if  it  was  according  to  Abayi,  he  is  not  obliged  to  remove 
the  well  to  any  distance.  Even  in  accordance  with  the  theory 
of  the  rabbis,  who  state  farther  on  that  if  one  comes  to  plant 
a  tree  near  the  well  of  his  neighbor,  he  must  do  so  at  a  distance 
of  twenty-five  ells,  it  is  because  the  well  was  already  in  exist- 
ence there  at  the  time  he  comes  to  plant ;  but  here  the  well  does 
not  as  yet  exist.  And  according  to  Rabha  he  must  maintain 
the  distance.  Even  in  accordance  with  the  theory  of  R.  Jose, 
who  says,  farther  on,  that  each  of  the  neighbors  has  a  right  to 
do  what  he  pleases  on  his  own  property,  etc.,  it  is  because,  when 
he  begins  to  plant,  roots  which  can  injure  the  well  do  not  as  yet 
exist.  But  here  the  owner  of  the  plot  which  is  prepared  for 
wells  may  claim :  "  Each  time  you  use  the  spade  at  my  boun- 
dary, you  weaken  my  estate." 

An  objection  was  raised  from  our  Mishna:  One  must  not  dig 
a  well  near  that  of  his  neighbor,  from  which  it  is  to  be  inferred 
— near  the  already  existing  well;  but  if  not,  he  may.  And  this 
contradicts  Rabha's  theory  ?  He  may  answer:  Was  it  not 
taught,  in  addition  to  this,  that  it  means  from  the  wall  of  the 
well? 

Another  objection  from  the  latter  part  of  our  Mishna  was 
raised,  which  enumerates  all  the  things  that  are  to  be  removed 
from  the  wall,  from  which  it  is  to  be  understood  that  it  speaks 
of  an  existing  wall,  but  not  if  it  is  not  yet  in  existence.  And 
the  answer  was:  This  can  also  be  explained  that  the  Mishna 
comes  to  teach  us  that  all  the  things  which  it  enumerates  are 
injurious  to  the  wall. 

Come  and  hear  the  following:  A  tree  must  be  removed  from 
a  well  to  a  distance  of  twenty-five  ells.  Does  it  not  mean  from 
an  existing  well  ?  Here  also  it  may  be  explained  to  mean  that 
at  a  distance  of  less  than  twenty-five  ells  the  roots  are  injurious 
to  the  well.  But  the  same  is  the  case  if  the  well  did  not  as  yet 
exist.  If  so,  then  how  should  the  latter  part,  which  states  that 
if  the  tree  is  already  in  existence  one  has  not  to  cut  it  down,  be 
understood  ?  For  if  one  must  not  plant  a  tree  near  a  plot,  even 
M'hen  it  is  only  prepared  for  walls,  how  can  such  a  case  be 
found  ?  As  R.  Papa  explained  elsewhere,  it  speaks  of  a  case 
where  one  buys  such.  So  it  can  also  be  explained  here  to 
mean :  In  case  one  bought  such  a  tree,  he  has  not  to  re- 
move it. 

Come  and  hear  the  following:  One  must  remove  a  pond  for 
steeping  flax  from  herbs,  garlic  from  onions,  and  mustard  from 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  57 

bees.  Is  it  also  not  to  be  understood  to  mean  already  existing 
herbs  ?  Here  also  it  can  be  explained,  even  when  it  is  only  pre- 
pared for  them,  and  it  comes  to  teach  that  the  things  mentioned 
harm  one  another.  But  if  so,  how  should  the  latter  part:  "  R. 
Jose  allows  mustard.  .  .  .  Because  the  bees  consume  the 
blossoms  of  my  mustard,"  be  understood?  As  if  one  must 
remove  the  bees  even  from  a  place  which  is  only  prepared  for 
mustard,  how  can  such  a  case  be  found  ?  Said  R.  Papa:  "  It 
means,  when  one  buys  such."  But  if  so,  then  what  is  the 
reason  of  the  rabbis*  decision ;  and  also  according  to  R.  Jose, 
why  only  with  mustard  ?  Should  it  not  also  be  the  same  in  the 
above  case  of  herbs  and  flax  ?  Said  Rabhina :  The  rabbis  hold 
that  the  injurer  has  to  remove  himself  from  the  things  which 
can  be  injured  by  him;  e.g.,  if  the  roots  of  a  tree  are  injurious 
to  a  well,  the  tree  must  be  removed,  and  not  the  well.  (Says 
the  Gemara:)  From  Rabhina's  statement  it  is  to  be  inferred  that 
R.  Jose  holds  that  the  injured  one  has  to  remove  himself— then 
why  only  in  the  case  of  mustard  ?  The  same  ought  to  be  the 
case  with  the  herbs.  If  there  is  a  pond  for  steeping  flax,  the 
herbs  should  be  removed,  and  not  the  pond  ?  Therefore  we 
must  say  that  R.  Jose  is  also  of  the  opinion  that  the  injurer 
must  remove  himself,  and  the  reason  of  the  herbs  in  question 
is  because  the  pond  does  harm  to  the  herbs,  and  not  the  herbs 
to  the  pond;  but  bees  and  mustard  injure  each  other.  And 
thus  said  R.  Jose  to  the  rabbis:  The  case  of  the  herbs  and  pond 
is  correct,  because  the  pond  injures  the  herbs,  and  not  vice 
versa.  But  why  should  the  same  be  in  the  case  of  bees  and 
mustard,  which  injure  each  other?  The  rabbis,  however,  are 
of  the  opinion  that  bees  do  not  harm  mustard ;  for  if  they  try  to 
consume  the  mustard  within  the  sown  seeds,  they  cannot  grasp 
them,  by  reason  of  their  extremely  small  size.  And  if  they  do 
harm  the  leaves,  it  would  not  matter,  for  others  will  grow.  But 
how  can  it  be  said  that  R.  Jose  holds  that  the  injurer  must 
remove  himself — does  not  the  following  Mishna  state :  R.  Jose 
said:  Although  the  well  was  in  existence  before  the  tree  was 
planted,  the  latter  has  not  to  be  cut  down,  etc.?  Therefore  we 
must  say  that  R.  Jose  holds  that  the  injured  one  has  to  remove 
himself.  And  he  said  to  the  rabbi  thus :  My  theory  is,  that  the 
injured  one  must  remove;  but  even  in  accordance  with  your 
theory,  that  the  injurer  must  remove,  your  decision  is  correct  in 
the  case  of  the  herbs  in  question,  as  the  pond  harms  the  herbs, 
etc.     But  why  should  it  be  the  same  in  the  case  of  mustard  and 


58  THE    BABYLOXIAX    TALMUD. 

bees,  which  do  harm  each  other  ?  To  which  the  rabbis  answered 
as  stated  above.  The  mustard,  however,  harms  the  bees  on 
account  of  its  pungency. 

"  Nor  a  basin  for  washing,'"  etc.  Said  R.  Na'hman  in  the 
name  of  Rabba  b.  Abuhu :  The  case  is  when  it  is  a  basin  for 
soaking  clothes  (they  used  to  soak  clothes  for  several  days  in 
canine  dung) ;  but  if  it  is  a  basin  for  washing,  it  is  to  be  removed 
four  ells  (because  of  splashing  while  washing).  And  so  also  we 
have  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha:  "  A  basin  for  washing 
— four  ells."  But  in  our  Mishna  it  is  stated  "  three  spans." 
Hence  it  must  be  explained  that  the  Boraitha  treats  of  a  basin 
for  washing,  and  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Na'hman. 

R.  Hyya  b.  R.  Ivya  taught  in  our  Mishna  plainly:  Pro- 
vided there  is  a  space  of  three  spans  from  the  edge  of  the  soak- 
ing pond  to  the  wall. 

"  And  plastered  with  lime."  The  schoolmen  propounded 
a  question:  Does  the  Mishna  state,  "  and  plastered  with  lime  " 
(which  means  that  this  must  also  be  done),  or,  perhaps,  "or 
plastered  with  lime  "  (which  means  that  one  of  the  two  require- 
ments sufifices)  ?  It  certainly  teaches  "  a7td  plastered  with 
lime  ";  for  if  it  read  or,  then  all  parts  of  the  Mishna  would  be 
taught  together,  as  there  is  no  difference  between  them.  But 
perhaps  it  teaches  separately,  because  the  injurious  effect  is  not 
the  same  in  both  cases:  in  the  one  case  it  is  wetting  from  the 
well,  while  in  the  other  it  is  the  heat  from  the  olive  waste  ? 
Come  and  hear  the  following  Tosephtha:  R.  Jehudah  said  :  "  If 
a  flint-stone  is  placed  by  a  human  being  between  the  properties 
of  two  persons,  each  of  them  may  dig  a  well  on  his  property  at 
a  distance  of  three  spans  from  the  flint-stone,  provided  the  walls 
of  the  well  be  plastered  with  lime."  We  see,  then,  that  only 
when  that  from  which  the  earth  becomes  weak  is  placed  there 
by  a  human  being  the  lime  is  needed;  but  if  it  is  there  natu- 
rally, no  lime  is  needed  ?  Nay;  the  same  is  the  case  even  when 
it  is  there  naturally;  and  the  expression  "  placed  "  is  necessary, 
lest  one  say  that  in  such  a  case  the  prescribed  amount  of  space 
is  not  sufficient.  Therefore  he  comes  to  teach  us  that  it  does 
not  matter. 

"  Olive  or  poppy  waste,"  etc.  There  is  a  Mishna  [Sabbath, 
p.  86]:  "  It  must  not  be  deposited  .  .  .  and  also  not  in 
lime  or  in  sand,"  etc.  Why,  then,  here  is  sand  not  mentioned 
and  a  flint-stone  is,  while  there  the  reverse  is  taught  ?  Said  R. 
Joseph:  Because  it  is  not  customary  to  deposit  victuals  in  flint- 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  59 

stones.  Said  Abayi  to  him:  "  Is  it,  then,  customary  to  so  de- 
posit in  wool-flocks,  and,  nevertheless,  it  is  mentioned  there  ? 
Therefore,"  said  Abayi,  "  the  Mishnayoth  rely  upon  each 
other."  {I.e.,  our  Mishna  relies  upon  the  cited  one  in  the  case 
of  sand,  while  the  latter  Mishna  relies  upon  ours  in  the  case  of 
flint-stones,  as  the  same  is  the  case  with  both.)  Said  Rabha  to 
him:  "  If  such  were  the  case,  then  the  other  things  would  not 
be  repeated  in  both  Mishnas;  but  some  of  them  would  be  men- 
tioned in  one  Mishna,  and  others  in  the  other.  Therefore," 
said  Rabha,  "  the  reason  why  a  flin^t-stone  is  not  mentioned  in 
the  cited  Mishna  is  because  a  pot  with  victuals  cannot  be  depos- 
ited there,  as  the  flint-stone  would  break  it.  And  the  reason 
why  sand  is  not  mentioned  here  is  because  the  nature  of  sand 
is  such  that  it  is  warmed  up  by  a  hot  thing,  but  it  is  cooled  by 
a  cold  thing."  (Hence,  here,  it  must  not  be  removed.)  But 
did  not  R.  Oshia  teach  us  in  his  Boraitha  that  sand  must  also 
be  removed  ?  R.  Oshia  numbers  it  among  the  things  which  are 
injured  by  wetting.  Let,  then,  the  Tana  of  our  Mishna  also 
add  this  to  the  category  of  things  that  injure  by  wetting  ?  Wet- 
ting is  already  dealt  with  in  the  case  of  the  channel  mentioned 
therein.  But  does  not  the  Mishna  state,  "  a  basin  for  wash- 
ing," which  is  also  in  the  same  category,  although  a  channel 
has  already  been  mentioned  ?  Both  must  be  mentioned,  because 
one  could  not  be  inferred  from  the  other,  for  the  following  rea- 
sons: If  a  channel  only  were  mentioned,  one  might  say  because 
it  is  stationary — but  for  a  basin  for  washing,  which  is  not  station- 
ary, the  space  in  question  is  not  needed.  On  the  other  hand, 
if  it  mentioned  only  a  basin  for  washing,  one  might  say:  "  Be- 
cause of  the  wetting  by  stagnant  water  which  has  been  used  for 
washing  is  injurious,  but  a  channel  does  not  matter."  There- 
fore both  had  to  be  mentioned. 

"  Seeds,  ploughing,'"  etc.  Why  is  it  necessary  for  both  to  be 
mentioned  ?  If  seeds  must  be  removed,  is  it  not  self-evident 
that  ploughing  for  the  purpose  of  sowing  is  also  meant  ?  It 
means  even  when  the  seeds  were  sown  in  an  unploughed  field 
where  they  are  not  so  deep.  And  would  not  ploughing  be 
understood  from  seeds;  as  what  is  a  field  ploughed  for,  if  not 
for  sowing  ?  It  means  even  when  it  was  ploughed  for  the  im- 
provement of  trees.  But  why  all  this  ?  It  has  already  men- 
tioned the  things  that  injure  by  wetting;  and  as  a  field  that  has 
been  ploughed  or  in  which  seeds  have  been  sown  needs  wetting, 
it  is  self-evident  that  it  must  be  removed  ?    The  Tana  speaks 


do  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

of  Palestine,  concerning  which  it  is  written  [Deut.  xi.  1 1] : 
"  .  .  .  from  the  rain  of  heaven  doth  it  drink  water."  Shall 
we  then  assume  that  the  Tana  holds  that  the  rootlets  proceed- 
ing from  the  planted  seeds  extend  laterally  so  that  unless  the 
distance  be  at  least  three  spans  the  wall  may  be  injured  ?  Have 
we  not  learned  [Kilaim,  VIL  i]  that  when  one  plants  vines,  he 
cannot  sow  seeds  over  them,  unless  there  be  a  layer  of  earth  at 
least  three  spans  in  depth  over  the  vines;  and  a  Boraitha  in 
addition  to  this  taught  that  he  might  sow  on  the  sides  of  the 
plot  where  the  vines  are  planted  (even  if  not  three  spans  deep; 
hence  we  see  that  the  rootlets  proceed  from  seeds  downwards, 
and  not  laterally,  for  in  the  latter  case  it  would  be  forbidden  to 
sow  the  seeds  even  on  the  sides)  ?  Said  R.  Haga  in  the  name 
of  R.  Jose:  The  seeds  are  mentioned,  not  because  the  rootlets 
proceed  laterally,  but  because  they  render  the  ground  wherein 
they  are  sown  friable,  thus  weakening  the  support  to  the  wall 
of  the  well  if  placed  too  near  it. 

'*  And  urine."  Said  Rabba  b.  b.  Hana:  One  is  allowed  to 
void  his  urine  near  the  wall  of  his  neighbor;  as  it  is  written 
[I  Kings,  xxi.  21]:  ''  Mashtin  C'kir."  But  does  not  our 
Mishna  state  that  urine  must  be  removed  to  a  distance  of  three 
spans  ?  The  Mishna  means  urine  which  has  been  collected  in 
a  urinal.  Come  and  hear  another  objection  from  the  following 
Tosephtha:  "  One  must  not  void  his  urine  against  the  wall  of 
his  neighbor,  unless  it  be  at  a  distance  of  three  spans."  This 
is  said  concerning  a  brick  w^all,  but  in  the  case  of  one  made  of 
stones,  a  distance  of  one  span  is  sufficient  to  prevent  harm  by 
softening  the  ground  under  the  wall.  And  if  the  wall  is  built 
upon  a  rock,  then  it  does  not  matter  at  all.  Hence  it  contra- 
dicts Rabba  b.  b.  Hana  ?  This  objection  remains.  But  does 
he  not  cite  a  verse  ?  The  verse  means  even  such  a  creature  as 
habitually  voids  its  urine  upon  a  wall — namely,  a  dog. 

"  A  handmill,"  etc.  Why  so  ?  Because  it  makes  the  ground 
vibrate.  But  have  we  not  learned  in  a  Boraitha  that  a  horse- 
mill  must  be  removed  to  a  distance  of  three  spans  from  the  cir- 
cumference, which  is  four  spans  from  the  funnel;  and  such 
a  mill  does  not  make  the  ground  vibrate  ?  Therefore  it  must 
be  said  that  the  reason  of  our  Mishna  is  not  the  vibration  of  the 
ground,  but  the  noise  produced  by  the  mill. 

"  And  also  an  oven,'"  etc.  Said  Abayi :  From  this  it  is  to  be 
inferred  that  the  foundation  should  be  wider  than  the  upper  rim 
by  one  span.     And  this  regulation  relates  to  buying  and  selling: 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  6i 

for  if  its  foundation  did  not  contain  a  span  more,  the  buyer 
may  recede. 

MISHNA  //. :  One  must  not  place  an  oven  in  a  lower  story 
of  a  house,  unless  there  be  an  empty  space  of  four  ells  above  it. 
If  the  oven  is  placed  in  an  upper  chamber,  there  must  be  at 
least  three  spans  of  stone-flooring  under  it ;  under  a  cooking 
stove  only  one  span  of  stone-flooring  is  required.  Yet  when 
damage  is  caused,  it  must  be  repaired.  R.  Simeon,  however, 
says:  All  these  measurements  are  ordained  so  that,  when  they 
are  complied  with  and  damage  is  caused,  one  is  not  held  respon- 
sible for  it. 

One  must  not  establish  a  bakery  or  a  dyer's  shop  under  an- 
other's granary;  and  also  not  a  stable.  In  reality,  it  was  said 
that  a  bakery  may  be  established  under  a  wine  store;  but,  at 
all  events,  not  a  stable. 

GEMARA :  But  have  we  not  learned  in  a  Boraitha  that  an 
oven  requires  four  spans,  and  a  stove  three  ?  Said  Abayi :  That 
Boraitha  speaks  of  bakers'  ovens  and  stoves,  and  the  oven  men- 
tioned in  our  Mishna  is  that  of  a  private  man,  and  similar  to 
a  baker's  stove. 

"  One  must  not  establish  a  bakery,'"  etc.  A  Boraitha  states 
that  if  the  stable  has  been  established  before  the  granary  over 
it,  it  may  remain. 

"  In  reality,  it  was  said,*'  etc.  There  is  a  Boraitha:  It  was 
allowed  under  a  wine  store,  because  it  improves  the  wine ;  but 
not  a  stable,  because  it  imparts  a  bad  odor  to  the  wine.  Said 
R.  Joseph :  Our  wine  is  harmed  even  by  the  smoke  of  a  candle. 
Said  R.  Shesheth:  A  haystack  is  likened  unto  a  stable  (be- 
cause when  the  hay  is  damp  it  becomes  warm  and  emits  an  odor 
which  harms  the  wine). 

MISHNA  III. :  Partners  in  a  yard  cart  prevent  one  from 
establishing  a  store  there,  claiming  that  they  cannot  sleep  on 
account  of  the  noise  produced  by  the  people's  coming  and  going. 
He,  however,  who  makes  utensils,  which  he  sells  in  the  market, 
cannot  be  prevented  by  the  partners,  with  the  claim  that  the 
noise  of  the  hammer  disturbs  their  sleep.  The  same  is  the  case 
if  one  of  them  has  a  handmill,  or  if  he  is  a  teacher  of  children, 
as  the  claim  that  they  cannot  sleep  on  account  of  the  noise  is 
not  to  be  considered. 

GEMARA :  Why,  in  the  first  part,  is  the  claim  of  the  noise 
from  the  people's  coming  and  going  considered,  while  in  the 
latter  part  the  noise  of  strange  children  is  not  considered  ?     Said 


62  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Abayi :  The  latter  part  speaks  of  an  instructor  of  children  resid- 
ing in  an  adjoining  yard.  Said  Rabha  to  him:  "  If  it  were  so, 
then  the  Mishna  would  state  that  in  an  adjoining  yard  it  is  per- 
mitted. Therefore,"  said  he,  "  the  latter  part  of  the  Mishna 
speaks  of  a  school  for  children's  education,  and  was  stated  after 
the  enactment  of  Joshua  b.  Gamla.  So  R.  Jehudah  said  in  the 
name  of  Rabh:  May  the  memory  of  Joshua  b.  Gamla  be  blessed, 
for,  were  it  not  for  him,  Israel  would  have  forgotten  the  Torah, 
as  in  former  times  the  child  who  had  a  father  was  instructed  by 
him  ;  but  the  one  that  had  not,  did  not  learn  at  all.  The  reason 
is  that  they  used  to  explain  the  verse  [Deut.  xi.  19]  :  "  And  ye 
shall  teach  them  to  your  children,"  etc.,  literally — -j^ personally. 
It  was  therefore  enacted  that  a  school  for  the  education  of  chil- 
dren in  Jerusalem  should  be  established,  on  the  basis  of  the  fol- 
lowing verse  [Is.  ii.  3]  :  "  .  .  .  for  out  of  Zion  shall  go  forth 
the  law,  and  the  word  of  the  Lord  out  of  Jerusalem."  And 
still  the  child  who  had  a  father  was  brought  to  Jerusalem  and 
instructed;  but  the  one  who  had  not,  remained  ignorant.  It 
was  therefore  enacted  that  such  school  should  be  established  in 
the  capitals  of  each  province;  but  the  children  were  brought 
when  they  were  about  sixteen  or  seventeen  years  of  age,  and 
when  the  lads  were  rebuked  by  their  masters,  they  turned  their 
faces  and  ran  away.  Then  came  Joshua  b.  Gamla,  who  enacted 
that  schools  should  be  established  in  all  provinces  and  small 
towns,  and  that  the  children  be  sent  to  school  at  the  age  of  six 
or  seven  years  (and  after  this  enactment  it  was  also  enacted  that 
the  claim  of  the  noise  of  school-children  should  not  be  con- 
sidered). 

Rabh  said  to  the  schoolmaster  R.  Samuel  b.  Shilath:  If  the 
child  is  under  six  years  of  age,  do  not  accept  him ;  but  above 
that  age,  accept  him  and  feed  him  (with  knowledge)  as  you  feed 
an  ox.  The  same  said  again  to  him  :  When  you  must  beat 
a  child,  do  so  with  a  shoe-strap  only;  if  this  produces  the  de- 
sired effect,  then  well  and  good ;  if  not,  leave  him  in  the  com- 
pany of  his  comrades,  whose  steady  progress  he  will  see,  and 
this  will  improve  him.  An  objection  was  raised  from  the  fol- 
lowing: If  one  of  the  tenants  of  a  yard  wishes  to  establish  an 
office  for  circumcision,  a  barber  shop,  a  tannery,  or  a  school  for 
children,  the  other  tenants  may  prevent  him  ?  It  speaks  of 
children  of  idolaters.  But  there  is  another  Boraitha  which  states 
that  if  there  are  only  two  tenants,  and  one  of  them  wishes  to 
make  one  of  the  above-named   establishments,  the  other  one 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  6^ 

may  prevent  him  ?  This  Boraitha  also  speaks  of  children  of 
idolaters.  Come  and  hear  another  Boraitha:  He  who  has  a 
house  in  a  yard  belonging  to  partners,  must  not  rent  this  house 
for  one  of  the  above-named  establishments;  nor  to  a  Jewish  or 
a  Gentile  schoolmaster.  This  Boraitha  speaks  of  the  head 
schoolmaster  of  the  entire  city  (who  has  all  the  subordinate 
schoolmasters  under  his  control,  and  instructs  them  how  to 
teach,  which  produces  a  great  deal  of  noise). 

Rabha  said:  Since  the  enactment  of  Joshua  b.  Gamla  we 
do  not  transfer  a  child  from  the  school  of  one  city  to  that  of 
another;  but  from  one  congregation  to  another  we  do.  How- 
ever, if  there  is  a  river  between  them,  we  do  not,  unless  there 
is  a  bridge  over  it;  but  if  there  is  only  a  dock,  we  do  not.  He 
said  again:  The  number  of  children  in  a  school  must  not  exceed 
twenty-five,  if  there  is  one  teacher;  if  the  number  is  between 
twenty-five  and  forty,  an  assistant  must  be  provided  for  him  by 
the  city;  and  if  there  are  fifty,  two  teachers  must  be  appointed. 
He  said  again:  If  there  is  one  teacher  who  can  perform  his 
duties  well  enough,  but  there  is  another  one  who  is  still  better, 
the  former  must  not  be  discharged,  lest  his  successor  become 
too  certain  of  retaining  the  position  and  will  not  attend  to  his 
work  properly.  R.  Dimi  of  Nahardea,  however,  said:  On  the 
contrary,  he  will  be  even  more  diligent,  as  the  jealousy  of 
scholars  increases  wisdom.  Rabha  said  again :  If  there  are  two 
teachers,  one  of  whom  is  a  good  expounder,  but  is  not  particu- 
lar about  the  exact  pronunciation  of  the  words  in  the  Scriptures, 
while  the  other  is  particular  in  the  latter  respect  but  is  not  so 
good  an  expounder,  the  former  should  be  appointed,  as  the 
errors  will  be  corrected  by  themselves,  R.  Dimi  of  Nahardea, ' 
however,  said :  On  the  contrary,  an  error  impressed  upon  the 
mind  of  a  child  remains  there  forever  (therefore  the  latter 
should  be  given  the  preference),  as  it  is  written  [I  Kings,  xi. 
i6]:  "  For  six  months  did  Joab  remain  there  with  Israel,  until 
he  had  cut  off  every  male  in  Edom."  When  he  came  before 
David,  and  was  asked  why  he  had  done  so,  he  said :  Because  it 
is  thus  written  [Deut.  xxv.  19]:  "  .  .  .  thou  shalt  blot  out 
each  zochor  (male)  of  Amalek."  Said  David  to  him:  But  we 
read  ^(?zV/z^r  (remembrance,  meaning  both — males  and  females)! 
And  Joab  answered:  "  My  master  instructed  me  to  pronounce 
soc/ior.''^     He  then  went  to  his  master,  and  questioned  him 

*  The    Scriptures  were    then  written    without  vowels,  these   being  added  at  a 
later  time. 


64  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

how  to  pronounce  this  word,  and  he  answered  zochor.  So  he 
took  out  his  sword,  and  wanted  to  kill  him.  And  to  the  ques- 
tion  of  the  master,  "  Why  ? "  he  answered:  Because  it  is  writ- 
ten [Jer.  xlviii,  lo] :  "  Cursed  be  he  that  doeth  the  work  of  the 
Lord  negligently."  And  his  master  rejoined:  "  Let,  then,  this 
man  (myself)  remain  in  this  course,"  and  he  answered  him, 
quoting  the  end  of  the  verse:  "  And  cursed  be  he  that  with- 
holdoth  his  sword  from  blood."  Some  say  that  he  slew  him, 
and  others  say  that  he  did  not.  Rabha  said  again:  An  in- 
structor of  children,  a  planter,  a  butcher,  a  barber,  and  a  scribe 
of  the  city  are  to  be  considered  as  if  they  were  already  warned 
{i.e.,  if  they  neglect  their  duties  they  may  be  discharged  with- 
out previous  notice);  as  the  general  rule  regarding  this  is:  All 
irreparable  damage  done  by  a  specialist,  who  is  appointed  as 
such,  is  to  be  considered  as  if  he  were  previously  warned.  (An 
instructor  of  children  who  has  spoiled  a  child  cannot  repair  this 
harm ;  and  the  same  is  the  case  with  a  planter  who  has  spoiled 
the  trees;  a  butcher  who,  through  his  neglect,  has  made  the 
meat  illegal  for  use;  a  barber  who  has  killed  a  man  by  perform- 
ing venesection ;  and  a  scribe  who  has  written  the  Holy  Scrolls 
fallaciously.) 

R.  Huna  said:  If  one  of  the  inhabitants  of  an  alley  estab- 
lishes a  handmill  there,  and  another  one  comes  to  do  the  same, 
the  law  gives  the  former  the  right  to  prevent  the  latter;  for  he 
may  claim :  "You  are  cutting  off  my  livelihood."  He  is  sup- 
ported by  the  following:  Fishermen  must  remove  their  nets 
from  a  fish  which  has  already  been  marked  by  one  of  them  while 
it  was  trying  to  escape  from  him  to  a  distance  that  a  fish  is 
usually  able  to  traverse.  And  to  the  question.  How  far  is  it  ? 
Rabba  b.  R.  Huna  said:  "  The  distance  of  a  parsa  "  ?  Nay, 
with  fish  the  case  is  different,  as  they  place  spies  (to  look  out 
for  bait,  and  the  former  fisherman  is  certain  that  the  fish  will  go 
to  his  bait  and  then  he  will  surely  catch  it;  but  here  his  com- 
rade may  say  to  him:  "  I  am  not  injuring  your  livelihood,  as 
your  customers  will  go  to  you  and  mine  to  me"). 

Said  Rabhina  to  Rabha:  Shall  we  assume  that  R.  Huna  is 
in  accordance  with  R.  Jehudah,  who  said  (Middle  Gate,  p.  143) 
that  a  storekeeper  must  not  furnish  little  children  with  presents 
of  nuts,  etc.,  for  the  purpose  that  they  may  call  again — and  the 
sages  allowed  this  ?  Nay,  it  may  be  said  that  R.  Huna's  theory 
is  in  accordance  with  that  of  the  rabbis  also,  as  there  they  allow 
this  for  the  reason  that  the  storekeeper   may  say,  "J  bestow 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  65 

nuts,  you  may  give  plums  "  ;  but  here  the  claim,  "  You  are  cut- 
ting off  my  livelihood,"  is  a  right  one,  even  in  accordance  with 
the  rabbis. 

An  objection  was  raised.  One  may  establish  a  store  or  a 
bath-house  near  or  opposite  to  that  of  his  neighbor,  and  the 
latter  cannot  prevent  him  from  doing  so,  for  he  may  say:  "  You 
can  do  business  in  your  establishment,  and  I  will  do  business  in 
mine."  (Hence  this  contradicts  R.  Huna's  theory?)  On  this 
point  Tanaim  of  the  following  Boraitha  differ:  "  The  inhab- 
itants of  an  alley  may  combine  to  prevent  one  from  another 
alley  from  opening  a  tailor  shop,  tannery,  children's  school,  or 
any  other  specialist's  establishment;  but  they  cannot  do  so 
against  an  inhabitant  of  their  own  alley.  R.  Simeon  b.  Gama- 
liel, however,  maintains  that  the  majority  can  prevent  an  inhab- 
itant even  of  their  own  alley." 

R.  Huna  b.  R.  Joshua  said:  "It  is  certain  to  me  that  the 
inhabitants  of  one  city  have  a  right  to  prevent  one  of  another 
city  from  competing  with  them,  provided  he  does  not  pay  the 
duties  of  the  city.  It  is  also  certain  to  me  that  an  inhabitant  of 
an  alley  cannot  prevent  another  inhabitant  of  the  same  alley; 
but  I  doubt  whether  an  inhabitant  of  one  alley  can  prevent  one 
of  another  alley."     And  this  question  remains  undecided. 

Said  R.  Joseph:  R.  Huna,  who  prohibits  competition  in  any 
specialty,  admits  that  concerning  instructors  of  children  no  com- 
petition is  to  be  considered  ;  as  the  master  said  that  the  jealousy 
of  scholars  increases  wisdom.  Said  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak:  R. 
Huna  also  admits  that  no  competition  is  to  be  considered  in  the 
case  of  peddlers  in  large  cities,  as  the  master  said  that  Ezra  has 
enacted  for  Israel  that  peddlers  shall  travel  in  the  large  cities, 
for  the  purpose  that  the  daughters  of  Israel  might  easily  procure 
their  ornaments.  This  is  only  concerning  travelling  dealers; 
but  the  establishment  of  a  stationary  place  may  be  prevented. 
And  if  the  peddler  is  a  young  scholar  for  whom  it  is  a  humilia- 
tion to  travel,  he  may  be  permitted  to  establish  a  stationary 
place;  as  Rabha  permitted  R.  Yashia  and  R.  Obadiah  to  estab- 
lish a  place  of  business  against  the  then  existing  law  of  that 
city,  saying  that  because  they  were  scholars  they  would  be  hin- 
dered in  their  study  by  travelling. 

There  were  three   basket  dealers  who  brought  baskets  to 

Babylon,  and  the  inhabitants  of  the  city  prevented  them.     So 

they  came  before    Rabhina,   who  said:    They  come   from   the 

country,   and  may  sell  their  goods  to  countrj'men  who   come 

5 


66  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

here  on  the  market  day;  but  only  on  that  day,  and  in  the 
market  only,  but  may  not  traffic  with  their  goods  in  private 
houses  of  the  city. 

There  were  wool  dealers  who  brought  wool  to  the  city  of 
Pumnahara,  and  the  inhabitants  there  prevented  them.  They 
came  before  R.  Kahana,  who  said  to  them  :  "  They  have  a  right 
to  do  so."  They,  however,  claimed  that  they  had  to  collect 
their  debts,  which  must  take  time,  and  they  had  nothing  to  live 
on  if  they  should  be  prevented  from  selling  their  goods  ;  and  he 
allowed  them  to  sell  as  much  as  they  needed  for  a  livelihood 
only,  M'hile  they  were  there,  but  not  more, 

R.  Dimi  of  Nahardea  brought  dry  figs  in  a  boat.  Said  the 
Exilarch  to  Rabha :  Go  and  see  whether  he  is  a  scholar ;  then 
you  may  hold  the  market  for  him.  And  Rabha  sent  R.  Ada  b. 
Abba  to  examine  him.  He  questioned  him  about  something  of 
the  Law,  which  he  could  not  answer.  So  R.  Dimi  said  to  him : 
Is  the  master  Rabha?  He  tapped  him  good-naturedly  on  the 
sandal,  and  answered  :  "  From  myself  to  Rabha  there  is  a  great 
difference ;  but,  nevertheless,  I  am  your  master,  while  Rabha  is 
the  master  of  your  master."  In  consequence  of  this,  the  market 
was  not  held  for  him ;  and  R.  Dimi  lost  on  his  dry  figs,  and 
came  to  complain  before  R.  Joseph,  saying :  See,  master,  what 
was  done  to  me !  And  he  answered  :  The  One  who  neglected 
not  to  take  revenge  for  the  shame  of  the  king  of  Edom,  shall  not 
neglect  to  revenge  your  shame.  (The  shame  of  Edom,  as  it  is 
written  [Amos,  ii.  i]  :  "  .  .  .  because  he  burned  the  bones  of 
the  king  of  Edom  into  lime.")  Consequently  R.  Ada's  soul  has 
gone  to  its  rest.  Then  R,  Joseph  said  :  /  have  punished  him, 
for  I  have  cursed  him.  R.  Dimi  said  :  T  have  punised  him,  for 
he  had  caused  my  loss  on  the  dry  figs.  Abayi  said  :  /  have 
punished  him,  for  he  used  to  say  to  the  rabbis :  While  ye  are 
licking  bones  in  the  college  of  Abayi,  would  it  not  be  better  for 
you  to  eat  fat  meat  in  the  college  of  Rabha?  And  Rabha  said  : 
/  have  punished  him,  for,  when  he  used  to  go  for  meat,  he  used 
to  say  to  the  butcher  :  You  must  give  me  meat  before  you  give 
it  to  the  servant  of  Rabha,  as  I  am  better  than  he.  R.  Na'hman 
b.  Itz'hak  said :  /  have  punished  him.  For  R.  Na'hman  b. 
Itz'hak  was  the  head  of  the  preachers  in  the  days  before  fes- 
tivals ;  and  every  day,  before  preaching,  he  reviewed  his  sermon 
together  with  R.  Ada  b.  Abba.  On  that  day,  however,  on 
which  R.  Ada  b.  Abba  died,  R.  Papa  and  R.  Huna  b.  R.  Joshua 
detained  him,  so  that  hj?  should  explain  to  them  what   Rabh^ 


TRACT    BABA   BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  67 

lectured  on  the  last  Sabbath  concerning  cattle  tithe,  and  he 
repeated  for  them  all  that  Rabha  said.  Meanwhile  the  time  for 
R.  Na'hman's  preaching  arrived,  and  R.  Ada  did  not  call  him. 
Said  the  rabbis  to  R.  Na'hman :  Why  does  the  master  sit  ?  It  is 
already  dawning,  and  you  have  to  go  to  preach.  And  he 
answered  :  I  am  sitting  and  waiting  for  the  coffin  of  R.  Ada. 
And,  indeed,  R.  Ada's  death  was  soon  announced.  It  seems, 
therefore,  that  R.  Na'hman  had  punished  him. 

MISHNA  IF. :  If  one's  wall  is  attached  to  that  of  his  neigh- 
bor, he  must  not  build  a  wall  parallel  to  it  unless  he  leaves  an 
interval  of  four  ells.  One  must  also  not  build  a  wall  opposite 
the  windows  of  his  neighbor,  wherever  they  are  to  be  found, 
unless  it  be  at  a  distance  of  four  ells. 

GEMARA  :  But  the  Mishna  declares  that  his  wall  was  already 
attached  to  that  of  his  neighbor.  Who  gave  him  the  right  to  do 
so?  Said  R.  Jehudah:  It  means  that  if  one  wished  to  do  so  he 
must  not,  unless  he  left  the  above-mentioned  space.  Rabha  op- 
posed :  "  But  the  Mishna  states  that  it  was  already  attached  ?  " 
Therefore  he  said  that  the  Mishna  meant  to  say  thus :  If  there 
was  already  a  wall  at  a  distance  of  four  ells  from  that  of  his 
neighbor,  and  it  fell,  he  must  not  build  another  one  unless  at  the 
same  distance,  as  the  treading  upon  the  earth  between  the  two 
walls  is  useful  for  the  strength  of  their  foundations.*  Rabh  said  : 
"  The  Mishna  treats  only  about  a  wall  of  a  garden  (because,  as 
inside  there  is  no  treading  upon  the  earth  near  the  wall,  it  needs 
the  treading  outside) ;  but  concerning  a  wall  of  a  yard,  it  does 
not  matter.  R.  Oshia,  however,  maintains  that  the  same  is  the 
case  with  a  wall  of  a  yard  also.  Said  R.  Jose  b.  Hanina:  And 
they  do  not  differ  j  as  the  former  speaks  of  an  old  town  (where 
the  ground  is  already  trodden),  while  the  latter  speaks  of  a  new 
town. 

Our  Mishna  states  that,  for  windows,  wherever  they  may  be 
placed,  a  space  of  four  ells  is  needed  ;  to  which  a  Boraitha  adds : 
"  If  a  window  is  placed  at  the  top,  the  wall  in  question  must 
reach  such  a  height  that  when  the  owner  stands  upon  it  and 
stoops,  he  should  be  unable  to  see  anything  by  looking  in  at  the 
window.  And  if  a  window  is  placed  at  the  bottom — to  such  a 
height  that  he  could  not  see  when  standing  upon  it.  And  if  the 
window  be  opposite  the  wall,  he  must  leave  such  a  space  as  would 
not  darken  the  window."     We  see,  then,  that  the  reason  of  the 

*  This  explanation  of  Rabha  does  not  very  well  justify  his  own  opposition,  and 
it  is,  indeed,  objected  to  by  Tothpath,  without  any  answer  following  it. 


68  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

regulation  concerning  a  parallel  wall  is  the  darkening,  but  not 
the  treading  mentioned  above  ?  The  Boraitha  speaks  of  a  side- 
wall.  How  much  space,  however,  must  one  leave,  in  order  that 
the  window  will  not  be  darkened  ?  Said  R.  Jyobha,  the  father- 
in-law  of  Ashian  b.  Nadbach,  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  As  much  as 
the  width  of  the  window.  But  from  such  a  height  one  can  still 
look  in  at  the  window?  Said  R.  Zebid  :  He  speaks  of  a  wall 
with  a  gable-top.  But  does  not  the  Mishna  state  four  ells? 
This  presents  no  difficulty.  The  Boraitha  speaks  of  one  side-wall 
to  which  the  space  of  the  width  of  a  window  suffices ;  and  our 
Mishna  speaks  of  two  side-walls ;  then  four  ells  are  needed,  so 
that  the  window  be  not  darkened.  Come  and  hear :  One  must 
leave  a  space  of  four  ells  near  the  drains  of  his  neighbor's  roof,  so 
that  the  latter  may  be  able  to  place  a  ladder  there.  (It  speaks,  in 
case  the  owner  of  the  house  is  allowed  to  direct  his  drains  to  the 
neighbor's  yard  ;  and,  while  he  allows  him  this,  he  must  also  allow 
him  a  space  for  a  ladder.)  We  see  again  that  the  purpose  of 
leaving  the  space  is  for  placing  a  ladder,  and  not  for  treading 
upon  the  earth?  It  speaks  of  a  slanting  roof  overhanging  the 
neighbor's  yard,  with  the  drains  placed  at  the  edge,  which  does 
not  prevent  the  treading  in  the  yard  under  it ;  and,  therefore, 
there  could  be  no  reason  but  the  latter. 

MISHNA  V. :  One  must  remove  the  ladder  in  his  yard  from 
his  neighbor's  pigeon-coop  to  the  distance  of  four  ells,  that  a 
weasel  should  be  unable  to  jump  from  it  to  the  latter;  and  also 
his  wall  from  his  neighbor's  roof-drains  to  a  distance  of  four  ells, 
to  enable  his  neighbor  to  place  a  ladder  there. 

GEAIARA :  Shall  we  assume  that  our  Mishna  is  not  in 
accordance  with  R.  Jose,  who  says  farther  on  that  everybody  may 
do  on  his  property  what  he  pleases?  This  Mishna  can  also  be 
in  accordance  with  him,  as  R.  Ashi  said :  When  I  was  at  the 
house  of  R.  Kahana,  he  said  that  R.  Jose  admitted  that  one  is 
responsible  for  any  damage  done  to  his  neighbor  by  his  arrows 
(^.^.,  if  he  places  a  ladder  so  that  it  would  be  easy  for  a  weasel 
to  jump  from  it  to  the  pigeon-coop).  But,  after  all,  this  is  not 
direct  damage,  but  ^^r;«<?;/ .?  (See  First  Gate,  p.  125.)  Said  R, 
Tubi  b.  Mathna  :  We  infer,  then,  from  this,  that  to  cause  damage 
by  germoji  is  forbidden  {i.e.,  indirect  damage). 

R.  Joseph  had  in  his  yard  small  date-trees,  under  which 
barbers  used  to  perform  venesection  ;  and  ravens,  while  coming 
to  consume  the  blood,  caused  harm  to  the  dates;  and  R.  Joseph 
commanded:  "Remove  the  cur-cur  from   my  property!"   {i.e., 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  69 

that  the  barbers  should  not  be  allowed  any  more  to  do  their 
work  there,  and  then  the  ravens  would  not  come  for  the  blood). 
And  to  Abayi's  question :  Are  not  the  barbers  a  germon  ? 
he  answered  with  the  declaration  of  R.  Tubi  b.  Mathna  just 
quoted.  But  had  not  the  barbers  already  made  there  a  hazakah? 
To  this  R.  Na'hman  in  the  name  of  Rabba  b.  Abuhu  said  : 
There  is  no  hazakah  concerning  damages.  But  was  it  not  taught 
that,  regarding  this,  R.  Mari  said:  "As,  for  instance,  smoke, 
which  injures  the  eyes,"  and  R.  Zebid  said:  "As,  for  instance  a 
toilet,  which  is  disgusting  to  the  sight "  ?  Said  R.  Joseph  :  To 
me,  who  am  tender-hearted,  the  blood  is  as  disgusting  as  the 
things  just  mentioned. 

MISHNA  VI. :  A  pigeon-coop  must  not  be  placed  within 
fifty  ells  of  the  town  :  nor  has  one  a  right  to  make  a  pigeon-coop 
on  his  own  property,  unless  his  property  extends  to  fifty  ells  on 
each  side.  R.  Jehudah  said  :  "  He  must  have  four  kurs  on  each 
side — the  space  which  a  dove  can  cover  at  one  flight  without 
resting."  If,  however,  one  has  bought  one,  he  is  in  his  right 
even  when  there  is  only  a  quarter  of  a  kur  of  space. 

GEMARA:  Are  fifty  ells  sufficient  for  this?  Have  we  not 
learned  in  a  Boraitha  that  a  net  for  doves  must  not  be  spread 
unless  the  locality  be  thirty  riss  distant  (four  miles)  from  an  in- 
habited place?  Said  Abayi :  "As  far  as  flying  goes,  it  is  to  a 
great  distance  ;  but  with  fifty  ells  it  usually  gets  enough  of  food  " 
(after  which  it  flies  thirty  riss ;  hence  beyond  the  fifty  ells  it  does 
no  harm  to  the  gardens  or  vineyards).  But  does  not  a  Boraitha 
state  that  in  an  inhabited  place  even  within  a  hundred  miles  one 
must  not  spread  a  net  ?  Said  R.  Joseph  :  This  speaks  of  the 
case  when  there  are  vineyards,  so  that  they  fly  from  one  vine- 
yard to  another,  and  so  they  can  fly  through  a  much  greater  dis- 
tance. And  Rabha  said  that  it  speaks  of  a  case  where  there  are 
many  pigeon-coops.  If  it  is  so,  why  does  the  Boraitha  state 
that  one  hundred  miles  from  a  city  one  must  not  do  so,  because 
he  can  catch  doves  from  another  pigeon-coop,  even  not  in  the 
city  ?  It  may  be  said  that  the  pigeon-coops  in  question  were  his 
own,  or  they  were  ownerless. 

"  He  is  in  his  right,''  etc.  Said  R.  Papa,  and  according  to 
others  R.  Zebid  :  From  this  it  is  to  be  inferred  that  the  court  has 
to  open  the  mouth  of  a  buyer  or  of  an  heir  to  claim  hazakah. 
{I.e.,  if  the  plaintiff  claims  that  the  estate  is  his  and  brings  evi- 
dence that  such  estate  is  his  or  his  parents',  and  the  defendant 
says,  "  I  inherited  it  from  my  parents,"  or  '  I  bought  it  from  so 


70 


THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 


and  so,  who  has  ocupied  it  for  so  many  years,"  and  brings  wit- 
nesses to  his  statement,  but  the  witnesses  cannot  testify  that  he 
who  occupied  it  before  bought  it  or  inherited  it  from  some  one, 
then  the  court  must  consider  the  defendant's  claim ;  and  by  the 
expression  "  open  the  mouth,"  it  is  meant  that  the  court  may 
say  to  the  defendant :  Look  for  evidence  that  the  one  from 
whom  you  bought  it  or  inherited  it  had  it  in  his  occupancy  for 
so  many  years.)  What  news  do  they  come  to  teach  us  ?  Does 
not  a  Boraitha  state  farther  on  that  if  the  defendant  claims  in- 
heritance it  is  not  necessary  for  him  to  say  when  the  bequeather 
bought  it?  It  was  necessary  for  them  to  teach  that  the  same  is 
the  case  when  the  defendant  claims  "  I  bought  it."  But  this  is 
also  stated  farther  on  [Chapter  IIL,  Mishna  lo]  ?  Their  state- 
ment was  nevertheless  necessary,  for  the  following  reason  :  From 
the  case  in  the  quoted  Mishna  one  might  say  that,  because  it 
speaks  of  a  yard  which  was  near  the  public  thoroughfare,  the 
claim  is  to  be  considered  a  right  one ;  for  if  it  were  not  as  he 
says,  the  public  would  prevent  him  ;  or,  at  his  request,  the  pub- 
lic have  rehnquished  their  right  to  that  yard.  But  here,  in  a 
private  case,  it  is  different ;  and  if  this  case  only  were  stated,  one 
might  say  that  it  is  to  be  taken  into  consideration,  as  a  private 
party  usually  settles  the  difference,  or  else  he  relinquishes  his 
right ;  but  there,  in  the  case  of  the  public,  with  whom  can  he 
settle,  or  who  can  relinquish  ?  Therefore  both  cases  were  neces- 
sary to  be  stated. 

Again — "  he  is  in  his  right "  {Iiazakah).  But  did  not  R. 
Na'hman  in  the  name  of  Rabba  b.  Abuhu  say  that  there  is  no 
hazakah  in  regard  to  damages  ?  Said  R.  Mari  in  the  name  of 
Rabh :  This  is  said  only  concerning  smoke,  as  mentioned  above. 

MISHNA  VII. :  A  little  dove  that  is  found  within  fifty 
ells  of  a  pigeon-coop  belongs  to  the  owner  of  the  latter ;  if  out- 
side of  fifty  ells,  it  belongs  to  the  finder.  If  it  is  found  between 
two  pigeon-coops,  it  belongs  to  the  nearer  one  ;  but  if  in  the  exact 
middle,  it  is  to  be  divided. 

GEMARA  :  Said  R.  Hanina  :  In  a  case  which  we  should 
judge  by  a  majority,  it  would  be  so;  and  if,  according  to  proxim- 
ity, it  would  be  different,  the  decision  by  a  majority  must  be 
taken  into  consideration ;  and  although  both  majority  and 
proximity  are  biblical,  nevertheless  majority  has  the  preference. 

R.  Zera  objected  :  It  is  written  [Deut.  xxi.  3]:  "The  city 
which  is  the  nearest,"  etc.  Does  it  not  mean  even  if  there  are 
other  cities  which    are    more   populous   than  the    nearest  one? 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  71 

Nay ;  it  means  if  they  are  not.  But  even  then,  why  should  not 
the  majority  of  the  world  be  considered?  It  means,  if  the  city 
in  question  is  situated  among  the  mountains,  where  it  is  not 
usual  for  robbers  to  come  from  a  distant  place.  But  does  not  our 
Mishna  state  that  a  dove  within  fifty  ells  of  the  pigeon-coop 
belongs  to  it,  even  when  there  are  others  outside  of  the  fifty  ells 
which  have  more  doves  than  the  nearest  one  ?  Nay ;  it  means 
when  there  are  not.  If  it  is  so,  how  is  the  latter  part,  which 
states,  "if  outside  of  fifty  ells,  it  belongs  to  the  finder,"  to 
be  understood  ?  If  there  are  no  other  pigeon-coops,  it  can  only 
be  from  that  one  ?  It  speaks  of  a  pigeon  which  can  hop  only ; 
and  R.  Uqba  B.  Hama  said  that  a  pigeon  which  hops  cannot  do 
so  more  than  fifty  ells.  R.  Jeremiah  then  questioned  in  the 
college  :  How  is  the  law  if  one  foot  was  within  the  fifty  ells  and 
the  other  without  ?  And  for  this  question  he  was  driven  out  of 
the  college. 

Come  and  hear  another  objection  from  our  Mishna,  which  states 
that  if  it  is  found  between  two  pigeon-coops,  it  belongs  to  the 
nearer  one.  Does  it  not  mean  even  when  the  farther  one  has 
more  doves  ?  Nay  ;  it  means  when  both  have  an  equal  number. 
But  why,  then,  should  the  majority  of  the  world  not  be  consid- 
ered ?  It  speaks  of  a  case  when  vineyards  occupy  the  whole 
distance  between  the  two  pigeon-coops,  and  the  pigeon  is  found 
on  a  walk  within  the  vineyard ;  and  then  it  cannot  be  supposed 
that  it  came  from  anywhere  else,  as  it  is  known  that  a  hopping 
dove  does  not  go  out  of  sight  of  her  pigeon-coop.  Hence  she 
must  be  from  one  of  these  two  in  question ;  as,  if  she  were  from 
another  one,  she  could  not  see  it  on  account  of  the  trees  and 
partitions. 

It  was  taught  :  A  barrel  of  wine  floating  on  a  river,  if  found 
opposite  a  city  of  which  the  majority  of  the  inhabitants  are 
Jews,  it  may  be  used  ;  if  opposite  a  city  of  a  majority  of  Gen- 
tiles, it  must  not  be  used.  So  said  Rabh.  Samuel,  however, 
maintains  that  even  when  the  majority  are  Jews  it  is  also  prohib- 
ited, lest  perhaps  it  came  from  Dagra  (a  country  near  the  river 
Euphrates,  where  there  were  no  Jews).  Shall  we  assume  that 
their  point  of  difference  is  the  above  statement  of  R.  Hanina — 
that  one  is  in  accordance  with  him  and  the  other  is  not  ?  Nay ; 
both  agree  with  R.  Hanina,  and  the  point  of  their  differing  is 
thus  :  One  maintains  that  if  this  were  from  Dagra,  it  would  have 
sunk  while  floating  in  the  bays  formed  by  the  projecting  rocks 
along  the  coast  from  Tyre  to  Accho,  and  in  the  shallow  waters 


72  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

caused  by  melting  snow ;  and  the  other  maintains  that  because 
the  stream  in  the  river  is  strong,  it  could  reach  here. 

A  pitcher  of  wine  was  found  in  a  vineyard  of  aria  (the  third 
year  after  planting) ;  and  Rabhina  allowed  to  use  it.  Shall  we 
assume  that  he  did  so  because  he  holds  with  R.  Hanina's  theory? 
Nay ;  his  reason  was  because  if  it  were  stolen  from  this  vineyard 
they  would  not  have  hidden  it  in  the  same.  This  is  only  con- 
cerning wine  (because  the  thief  would  not  leave  the  wine  lest  the 
presser  of  the  grapes  should  find  it) ;  as  for  grapes,  however,  they 
would  not  fear  to  leave  them  where  they  were  stolen  and  take 
them  away  afterwards.  There  were  some  leather  bags  of  wine 
which  were  found  among  the  vines  of  a  vineyard  belonging  to  a 
Jew ;  and  Rabha  permitted  their  use.  Shall  we  assume  that  he 
did  so  because  he  does  not  hold  with  R.  Hanina's  theory  (as  the 
majority  of  men  are  Gentiles,  and  not  Jews)?  Nay;  his  reason 
is  that  all  the  pressers  and  those  that  pour  the  wine  into  bar- 
rels are  Jews.  This  law,  however,  applies  only  to  large  leather 
bags,  but  not  to  small  ones,  for  fear  that  they  were  dropped  by 
travellers,  the  majority  of  whom  are  Gentiles ;  and  even  if  there 
were  large  ones  with  them,  the  law  nevertheless  applies,  for  fear 
that  they  were  dropped  by  a  traveller  upon  an  ass,  who  had  hung 
them  on  both  sides  of  the  ass.* 

MISHNA  VIII. :  In  planting  a  tree,  a  space  of  twenty-five  ells 
must  be  left  outside  of  the  town  ;  for  a  carob  or  a  sycamore,  fifty 
ells  are  needed.  Aba  Shaul  said  :  "  For  a  wild  tree,  fifty  ells." 
If  the  city  was  built  first,  the  tree  might  be  cut  down  without 
paying  for  it ;  but  if  the  tree  was  planted  first,  it  is  to  be  cut 
down  and  paid  for ;  if  doubtful  as  to  which  was  there  first,  it  is 
to  be  cut  down  without  paying  for  it. 

GEMARA:  What  is  the  reason  of  all  this?  Said  Ulla : 
"  Because  of  the  beauty  of  the  city."  But  why  not  because  it  is 
not  allowed  to  make  a  field  of  the  open  space  around  the  town, 
and  vice  versa  ?  It  means  to  say  that  even  according  to  R.  Ela- 
zar,  who  holds  that  this  is  allowed,  here  it  is  not  to  be  tolerated, 
because  it  spoils  the  beauty  of  the  city.  And  also  according  to 
the  rabbis,  who  allow  to  plant  trees  in  an  open  space  belonging 
to  the  city,  but  not  seeds ;  here,  concerning  a  single  tree  they 
would  not  allow  it,  as  it  spoils  the  beauty  of  the  city.  And 
whence  do  you  know  that  the  rabbis  make  a  difference  between 

*  The  term  in  the  text  is  abruri,  and  SchOnhack  maintains  that  it  originates  from 
the  Greek  dfiaprji,  which  means  zt-ithout  weight,  the  first  Hebrew  r  being  interpo- 
lated. 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  73 

seeds  and  trees  in  this  respect  ?  From  a  Boraitha  [Erubhin,  p. 
57]  :  "  If  a  wood-shed  of  more  than  two  saahs  .  .  .  was  used 
to  sow  grain  ,  .  .  things  must  not  be  moved  therein  .  .  . 
If,  however,  trees  were  planted  in  the  greater  part  of  it,  things 
may  be  carried  therein."  The  Mishna  states  that  if  the  tree  was 
planted  first,  it  must  be  cut  down  and  paid  for ;  but  why  should 
the  owner  of  the  tree  not  claim  that  it  should  be  paid  for,  and 
then  cut  down  ?  Said  R.  Kahana :  Because  a  pot  belonging  to 
partners  is  neither  warm  nor  cold  (it  means  that  one  relies  upon 
the  other  to  warm  it  or  to  cool  it,  and  it  remains  as  it  was) ;  and 
here  also,  if  he  should  wait  until  he  got  the  money,  each  of  the 
inhabitants  would  refer  him  for  payment  to  the  next  one,  and  so 
the  trees  would  remain  indefinitely ;  therefore  it  is  to  be  cut 
down,  and  the  money  should  be  collected  through  the  court. 

"  If  there  is  a  doubt,'"  etc.  Why  is  this  case  different  from  that 
of  a  tree  and  a  well,  concerning  which,  if  there  is  a  doubt  as  to 
which  was  there  first,  the  tree  must  not  be  cut  down  ?  Because 
there,  if  it  is  certain  that  the  tree  was  there  first,  it  must  not  be 
cut  down,  the  same  being  the  case  when  there  is  a  doubt ;  while  in 
our  case,  even  when  it  is  certain  that  the  tree  was  planted  first,  it 
must  be  cut  down,  the  same  being  the  case  when  there  is  a  doubt. 
And  concerning  the  payment  for  it  the  city  may  say  :  Bring  evi- 
dence that  your  tree  was  planted  first,  and  then  you  will  get  the 
money. 

MISHNA  IX. :  A  barn  must  not  be  placed  within  fifty 
ells  of  the  town  ;  the  same  is  the  case  if  one  wishes  to  make  a 
barn  on  his  own  property — he  may  do  so,  provided  he  has  fifty 
ells  of  space  on  each  side  of  it.  One  must  also  remove  a  barn 
from  the  plants  and  from  the  newly  ploughed  field  of  his  neigh- 
bor (which  must  wait  a  year  before  sowing),  to  a  distance  suf- 
ficiently  great  to  prevent  any  harm  to  the  plants  or  the  field. 

GEMARA :  Why,  in  the  first  part,  is  a  space  of  fifty  ells 
required,  and  in  the  second  part  a  space  only  large  enough  to 
prevent  harm.  Said  Abayi :  The  latter  part  of  the  Mishna 
speaks  of  a  temporary  barn,  and  not  of  a  permanent  one.  What 
is  called  a  temporary  barn?  Said  R.  Jose  b.  Hanina :  If  one 
does  not  winnow  with  the  shovel.  R.  Ashi,  however,  maintains 
that  there  are  no  two  parts  in  the  Mishna  at  all,  only  the  latter 
part  is  an  explanation  of  the  first,  thus  :  Why  must  a  permanent 
barn  be  removed  from  the  city  fifty  ells  ?  For  the  purpose  that 
it  shall  not  do  any  harm  to  the  city.  An  objection  was  raised 
from  the  following :  "  A  permanent  barn  must  be  removed  fifty 


74  THE    BABYLONIAN    TAL]\IUD. 

ells  from  the  town,  and  the  same  distance  must  be  allowed  to 
one's  cucumbers,  plants,  and  a  ploughed  field,  to  prevent  dam- 
age." Now  this  is  correct  only  according  to  R.  Ashi's  explana- 
tion ;  but  it  contradicts  Abayi.     The  difiiculty  remains. 

However,  it  is  correct  only  concerning  cucumbers,  etc.,  as 
the  dust  of  the  barn  settles  upon  their  hearts  and  spoils  them ; 
but  what  harm  can  this  do  to  a  ploughed  field  ?  Said  R.  Aba  b. 
Zabda,  according  to  others  b.  Zutra :  Because  the  dust  of  the 
barn  increases  the  amount  of  manure  in  the  field  (and  spoils  the 
seeds). 

MISHNA  X.:  Carcasses,  cemeteries,  and  tanneries  must  be 
removed  to  a  distance  of  fifty  ells.  A  tannery  must  not  be 
established  except  on  the  east  side  of  the  city  ;  R.  Aqiba,  how- 
ever, maintains  that  it  may  be  established  on  every  side  except 
the  west,  and  a  space  of  fifty  ells  is  to  be  left.  One  must  also 
remove  his  pond  for  steeping  flax  from  a  neighbor's  herbs  ;  garlic 
from  onions ;  and  mustard  from  bees.  But  R.  Jose  allows 
mustard. 

GEMARA :  The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question  :  What 
does  R.  Aqiba  mean  ?  On  each  side  he  may  establish  without 
the  space  of  fifty  ells,  excepting  the  west  side,  where  the  fifty 
ells  are  necessary ;  or  does  he  mean  that  on  each  side  he  may 
establish,  provided  he  leaves  the  space  of  fifty  ells,  except  the 
west  side^  where  he  must  not  do  so  at  all?  Come  and  hear  the 
following  Boraitha :  "  R.  Aqiba  said :  On  each  side  one  may 
establish  a  tannery,  if  he  leaves  a  space  of  fifty  ells,  excepting 
the  Avest  side,  w^here  he  must  not  do  so  at  all  because  of  its  fre- 
quency." Said  Rabha  to  R.  Na'hman  :  "  What  does  the  expres- 
sion frequency  mean — does  it  mean  frequent  winds?  Did  not 
R.  Hanan  b.  Aba  say  in  the  name  of  Rabh,  that  four  winds  are 
blowing  every  day  and  the  north  wind  blows  with  them  ?  There- 
fore the  expression  frequency  means  that  the  Shekhinah  rests 
there  frequently."  As  R.  Joshua  b.  Levi  said :  "  We  must  be 
grateful  to  our  forefathers  for  having  informed  us  of  the  place 
where  we  are  to  pray ;  as  it  is  written  [Neh.  ix.  6]  :  '  And  the 
host  of  the  heavens  bow  down  before  thee.' "  R.  Aha  b.  Jacob 
opposed :  "  Perhaps  it  means,  on  the  contrary,  that  they  are 
praying  at  the  east  side,  and  then  they  step  backwards,  as  a  slave 
does  usually  before  his  master;  and  when  they  come  to  the  west 
side,  they  bow."  Hence  the  Shekhinah  is  in  the  east  side.  The 
objection  remains. 

R.  Jose,  however,  holds  that  the   Shekhinah  occupies   every 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST   GATE).  75 

place,  as  he  said  :  It  is  written  [ibid.,  ibid.]  :  "  Thou  indeed  art  the 
Eternal  One  alone :  it  is  thou  that  hast  made  the  heavens,"  etc. 
Thy  messengers  are  not  as'the  messengers  of  human  beings,  who 
usually  return  from  the  place  to  which  they  were  sent,  to  that 
whence  they  were  sent,  announcing  that  they  have  fulfilled  their 
duty.  Thy  messengers,  however,  are  doing  the  same  in  the  very 
place  to  which  they  were  sent ;  as  it  is  written  [Job,  xxxviii.  35]  : 
"  Canst  thou  send  out  lightnings,  that  they  may  go,  and  say 
unto  thee,  '  Here  are  we '  ?  "  It  does  not  read  that  they  come 
and  say  *'  Here  are  we,"  but  that  they  go  and  say  it  in  the  place 
to  which  they  were  sent :  hence  the  Shekhinah  occupies  every 
place.  And  R.  Ishmael  also  holds  the  same,  inferring  it  from 
[Zech.  ii.  7]  :  "  And,  behold,  the  angel  that  spoke  with  me  went 
out,  and  another  angel  came  out  to  meet  him."  It  does  not 
read  after  him  [achrov),  but  against  him  {likrond) :  from  which  it 
is  to  be  inferred  that  the  Shekhinah  is  everywhere.  And  R. 
Shesheth  also  holds  so,  as  he  (who  was  blind)  said  to  his  servant : 
Raise  and  turn  me  for  praying  to  any  side  of  the  world  except- 
ing the  east ;  not  because  the  Shekhinah  is  not  resting  there, 
but  because  the  minim  have  decided  that  one  must  pray  only 
towards  the  east  side.  R.  Abuhu,  however,  maintains  that  the 
Shekhinah  is  resting  in  the  west,  as  he  said :  Why  is  the  west 
side  called  Oriah  ?     Because  it  is  filled  with  the  air  of  God.* 

R.  Jehudah  said  :  It  is  written  [Deut.  xxxii.  2]  :  "  My  doctrine 
shall  drop  as  the  rain  ";  which  means  the  west  wind,  which  comes 
from  the  neck  of  the  world  ;t  "  my  speech  shall  distil  as  the  dew," 
which  means  the  north  wind,  which  makes  gold  cheap  (because  it 
brings  hunger,  and  that  renders  gold  cheap),  as  it  is  written  [Is. 
xlvi.  6]  ;  :j:  "  as  heavy  rains  upon  the  grass,"  means  an  east  wind 
that  makes  storms  in  the  world  ;  §  "  and  as  showers  upon  herbs," 
means  a  south  wind,  which  brings  beneficent  rain  and  causes 
growth  of  grasses. 

There  is  a  Boraitha :  R.  Elazar  said :  The  world  is  like  a  bal- 
cony without  the  fourth  wall ;  and  when  the  sun  arrives  in  the 

*  Rashi  says  he  has  heard  that  in  the  Persian  language  Oriah  means  west ;  he 
himself,  however,  maintains  that,  on  the  contrary,  Oriah  (orient)  means  east.  And 
it  is  so  called  because  the  Shekhinah  rests  on  the  west  side,  facing  east.  Hence  the 
east  side  is  His  air ;  avir,  which  contains  the  first  four  letters  of  Oriah,  in  Hebrew 
means  air. 

\  The  word  in  Hebrew  '\s  yaarof ;  and  ohraf  rrif&Xi?,  neck. 

X  The  term  in  Hebrew  is  zol  in  both  passages — literally,  cheap.  The  translation 
certainly  differs  in  both,  according  to  the  sense. 

§  The  term  is  sair,  which  means  also  storm. 


76  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

evening  at  the  northwest  corner,  it  is  diverted  by  this  wind  and 
ascends  above  the  sky.  And  R.  Joshua  said  :  The  world  is  Hke 
a  tent  which  is  fenced  on  all  sides,  and  when  the  sun  arrives  in 
the  evening  at  the  northwest  corner,  it  turns  around  and  returns 
beyond  the  sky ;  as  it  is  written  [Eccl.  i.  6]  :  "  Going  toward  the 
south,  and  turning  round  toward  the  north,  the  wind  moveth 
round  about  continually ;  and  around  its  circles  doth  the  wind 
return  again."  "  Going  toward  the  south  " — during  the  day ; 
"  and  turning  round  toward  the  north  " — during  the  night ; 
"  moveth  round  about " — means  facing  east  and  west,  so  that 
sometimes,  when  the  days  are  long,  it  goes  through  them,  and 
when  the  days  are  short,  it  goes  around  them.  R.  Elazar  used 
to  say  [Job,  xxxvii.  9]  :  "  Out  of  his  chamber  cometh  the  whirl- 
wind," which  means  the  south  wind ;  "  and  out  of  the  north,  the 
cold,"  which  means  the  north  wind.  "  From  the  breathing  of 
God  ice  is  given  " — means  the  west  wind  ;  "  and  the  broad  waters 
become  solid  " — means  the  east  wind. — But  did  not  the  master 
say  that  the  south  wind  brings  beneficent  rain,  etc.  ?  This  presents 
no  difficulty  :  If  the  rain  comes  slowly,  it  makes  the  grass  grow; 
but  if  it  comes  down  in  torrents,  it  does  harm. 

R.  Hisda  said  :  It  is  written  [ibid.,  ibid.  22] :  "  The  golden 
light  that  cometh  out  of  the  north  " — it  means  the  north  Avind, 
which  makes  gold  cheap,  as  it  is  written  in  Isaiah,  verse  cited 
above. 

Raphram  b.  Papa  in  the  name  of  R.  Hisda  said :  "  Since 
the  Temple  was  destroyed,  the  south  wind  has  never  brought 
rain,  as  it  is  written  [Is.  ix.  9]  :  '  And  he  snatcheth  on  the  right 
hand,*  and  is  yet  hungry ;  and  he  eateth  on  the  left  hand,  and  is 
not  yet  satisfied ;  they  shall  eat  every  man  the  flesh  of  his  own 
arm.'  It  is  written  also  [Ps.  Ixxxix.  13]:  'The  north  and  the 
south — these  hast  thou  created,'  etc."  The  same  said  again  in 
the  name  of  the  same  authority :  "  Since  the  Temple  was  de^ 
stroyed,  the  rains  do  not  come  from  the  good  treasure ;  as  it  is 
written  [Deut.  xxviii.  12]:  'The  Lord  will  open  unto  thee  his 
good  treasure,  the  heaven,  to  give  the  rain  of  thy  land,'  etc. 
From  which  it  is  to  be  seen  that  when  Israel  did  the  will  of  the 
Omnipotent,  and  Israel  was  in  his  own  land,  the  rain  came  from 
the  good  treasure ;  and  now  that  Israel  is  no  more  in  his  own 
land,  the  rain  does  not  come  from  the  good  treasure." 

R.  Itz'hak  said  :  He  who  desires  to  increase  his  wisdom  shall 


*  The  expression  for  right  hand  is  yomin,  and  in  the  Psalms  the  expression  for 
south  is  also^.7wr«  /  hence  the  analogy. 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  77 

recite  his  prayers  towards  the  south  ;  and  he  who  desires  to  be- 
come rich  shall  do  so  towards  the  north ;  and  as  a  mark  in  aid  to 
remembering  this  direction,  may  be  taken  the  fact  that  in  the 
tabernacle  the  golden  table  was  placed  on  the  north,  and  the 
candelabrum,  which  gives  light  (wisdom) — on  the  south.  And  R. 
Joshua  b.  Levi  said :  One  shall  always  recite  his  prayers  towards 
the  south,  as  when  his  wisdom  shall  increase,  he  shall  also  become 
richer;  as  it  is  written  [Prov.  iii.  16]  :  "  Length  of  days  is  in  her 
right  hand :  in  her  left  are  riches  and  honor."  But  did  not  R. 
Joshua  b.  Levi  say  that  the  Shekhinah  is  in  the  west?  He  does 
not  mean  that  he  should  stand  in  the  south  exactly,  but  that  he 
should  stand  in  the  west  (southwest  corner)  and  incline  himself 
towards  the  south. 

Said  R.  Hanina  to  R.  Ashi :.  Ye  who  are  located  on  the  north 
side  of  Palestine  must  recite  your  prayers  towards  the  south  (so 
that  you  shall  face  Jerusalem).  And  whence  do  we  know  that 
Babylon  was  situated  north  of  Palestine?  From  [Jer.  i.  14]: 
''  Out  of  the  north  shall  the  evil  break  forth,"  etc. 

"A  pond  for  steeping  flax  ^'  etc.  There  is  a  Boraitha:  "  R.  Jose 
allows  mustard  ;  as  the  owner  of  it  may  claim  :  '  Instead  of  telling 
me  that  I  should  remove  my  mustard  from  your  bees,  it  is  for 
you  to  remove  your  bees  from  my  mustard,  for  they  come  and 
consume  its  blossoms.'  " 

MISHNA  XL  :  From  a  well  a  distance  of  twenty-five  ells 
must  be  left  when  planting  a  tree  ;  and  fifty  ells  when  planting 
sycamores  or  carobs.  It  makes  no  difference  whether  it  be  above 
or  alongside.  If  the  well  has  been  there  first,  the  tree  must  be 
cut  down  and  paid  for  ;  but  if  the  tree  has  been  there  first,  it  may 
remain.  The  same  is  the  case  when  there  is  a  doubt.  R.  Jose, 
however,  maintains  that  even  when  the  well  was  there  before  the 
tree  there  is  no  necessity  for  cutting  down  the  latter,  as  one  digs 
on  his  property  while  another  plants  on  his  own. 

GEMARA:  There  is  a  Boraitha  :  "It  makes  no  difference 
whether  the  well  be  below  the  tree  or  vice  versa  "  ?  This  would 
be  correct  when  the  tree  is  above  the  well,  as  its  roots  injure  it ; 
but  if  the  well  be  above  the  tree,  what  harm  can  be  done  ?  Said 
R.  Haga  in  the  name  of  R.  Jose :  Because  the  roots  render  the 
earth  friable,  and  thus  harm  the  bottom  of  the  well. 

'' R.  Jose,  however,  maintains,''  etc.  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the 
name  of  Samuel :  The  Halakha  prevails  in  accordance  with  R. 
Jose.  And  R.  Ashi  said  :  When  I  was  with  R.  Kahana,  we  came 
to  the  conclusion  that  R.  Jose  admits  that  when  one's  arrows  do 


78  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD, 

damage,  etc.  (see  above,  p.  68).  Papi  di  Unaha,  who  was  poor 
and  afterwards  became  rich,  built  a  palace.  In  the  neighbor- 
hood were  established  poppy  presses ;  and  when  they  were  in 
operation  the  palace  used  to  shake.  He  came  to  complain  be- 
fore R.  Ashi,  who  told  him  what  R.  Kahana  said  to  him.  But 
how  much  should  the  palace  shake  to  make  the  presses  reponsi- 
ble  ?  When  a  pitcher  is  on  the  roof  of  the  palace  and  its  cover 
shakes. 

The  disciples  of  Bar  Marian  b.  Rabbin  used  to  card  flax,  and 
the  dust  of  it  harmed  the  men  that  passed  by  ;  and  they  came  to 
complain  before  Rabhina,  who  said  to  them  :  That  which  was 
said,  that  R.  Jose  admits  that  one  should  be  made  responsible 
for  the  damage  caused  by  his  arrows,  was  said  only  when  they 
come  from  him  directly  ;  here,  however,  as  the  dust  does  not  come 
directly,  but  is  blown  by  the  wind,  there  is  no  responsibility. 
Mar  b.  R.  Ashi  opposed  :  Why  should  it  be  different  in  the  case  of 
winnowing,  when  the  wind  assists  one,  concerning  which  it  is  said, 
in  the  First  Gate,  that  he  is  responsible  ?  When  this  was  said 
before  Miramar  he  decided  that  Mar  was  right  in  his  supposi- 
tion, and  Marian's  disciples  were  responsible.  But  to  Rabhina : 
Why  should  this  case  be  different  from  that  of  a  spark  that  pro- 
ceeds from  under  the  hammer  and  does  damage,  in  which  case 
he  is  responsible  ?  "  There  one  is  pleased  that  the  sparks  should 
escape  outside  and  not  inside — where  they  may  cause  harm  ;  but 
in  our  case  they  are  not  pleased  at  all  that  the  dust  should  escape 
where  men  pass." 

MISHNA  XI1.\  One  must  not  plant  a  tree  near  to  his  neigh- 
bor's field,  unless  it  be  at  a  distance  of  four  ells ;  and  it  makes 
no  difference  whether  it  be  vines  or  other  trees.  If,  however, 
there  is  a  fence  between  the  two  estates,  each  of  them  may  plant 
on  his  side  of  the  fence.  If  the  roots  spread  to  the  estate  of  one's 
neighbor,  the  latter  may  replace  them  three  spans  deeper,  so  that 
they  shall  not  hinder  in  ploughing.  If  he  has  to  dig  a  pit  or  a 
cave,  he  may  cut  off  the  roots  which  prevent  him  from  doing  so, 
and  the  fuel  is  his. 

GEMARA :  There  is  a  Boraitha  :  "  The  four  ells  in  question 
are  for  the  purpose  that  the  owner  of  the  vineyard  should  be 
able  to  work  it  up."  Said  Samuel  :  "  This  is  said  only  concern- 
ing Palestine,  where  they  have  long  ploughs ;  but  in  Babylon, 
where  the  ploughs  are  short,  two  ells  suf^ce."  And  the  same  is 
stated  in  the  following  Boraitha :  "  One  must  not  plant  a  tree 
near  his  neighbor's  field,  unless  be  leaves  a  space  of  two  ells." 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  79 

And  as  this  contradicts  our  Mishna,  which  states  four  ells,  it 
must  be  explained  that  the  Boraitha  speaks  of  Babylon,  and  is  in 
accordance  with  Samuel's  theory.     Infer  from  this  that  so  it  is. 

Rabha  b.  R.  Hanon  had  trees  at  the  boundary  of  R.  Joseph's 
vineyard ;  and  birds  which  used  to  rest  on  the  trees  descended 
into  the  vineyard  and  did  harm.  And  R.  Joseph  told  him  to 
cut  down  his  trees.  And  to  his  claim  that  the  trees  were  placed 
at  the  prescribed  distance,  R.  Joseph  said  :  "  This  is  prescribed 
only  for  trees,  but  for  vines  more  space  is  required."  But  does 
not  our  Mishna  state  that  there  is  no  difference  between  vines  and 
trees?  R.  Joseph  rejoined  that  it  means  a  tree  from  a  tree,  and 
vines  from  vines;  but  from  a  tree  to  vines  more  space  is  required. 
Said  Rabha :  "  I  shall  not  cut  it  down ;  as  Rabh  said  that  a  tree 
which  bears  fruit  to  the  measure  of  a  kab  is  forbidden  to  be  cut 
down  ;  and  also  R.  Hanina  said :  '  Shakkhath,  my  son,  would 
not  have  died  if  he  had  not  cut  down  a  fig-tree  before  the  time; 
but  you,  masters,  may  cut  it  down  if  you  like.'  " 

R.  Papa  had  trees  at  the  boundary  of  R.  Huna  b.  R.  Joshua's 
estate.  At  one  time  he  found  him  digging  and  cutting  off  its 
roots;  and  to  the  question  why  he  did  so,  R.  Huna  answered: 
In  accordance  with  our  Mishna,  which  states  that  one  may  re- 
place the  roots  to  the  depth  of  three  spans,  in  order  not  to  pre- 
vent ploughing.  Said  R.  Papa  to  him  :  But  the  master  digs 
deeper.  And  he  answered  :  I  am  digging  an  excavation,  and 
our  Mishna  allows  to  do  this.  Said  R.  Papa :  I  tried  to  repeat 
for  him  many  supports  to  the  statement  that  he  was  not  doing 
right,  but  he  did  not  listen  to  me ;  until  I  reminded  him  about 
the  decision  of  R.  Jehudah,  that  a  path  that  is  used  by  the  ma- 
jority was  forbidden  to  be  spoiled.  After  R.  Papa  went  out,  R. 
Joshua  said  to  himself :  Why  did  I  not  oppose  also  this  claim 
of  his,  with  that  this  was  said  only  within  sixteen  ells  from  a 
tree ;  but  in  my  case  it  was  outside  sixteen  ells,  and  the  cutting 
off  of  the  root  could  do  no  harm  to  the  tree. 

"And  the  fuel  is  his,'"  etc.  Jacob  of  Daiba  questioned  R. 
Hisda  :  Who  is  meant  by  '  his '  ?  And  he  answered :  This  we 
have  learned  in  the  following :  "  From  roots  of  a  tree  belonging 
to  a  private  man,  which  spread  into  the  estate  of  the  sanctuary, 
must  not  be  derived  any  benefit ;  but  if  one  has  so  derived,  he  is 
not  liable  for  a  sin-offering.  This  can  be  correct  only  when  it  is 
said  that  the  roots  go  with  the  tree ;  therefore  one  is  not  liable 
for  a  sin-offering.  But  if  it  should  be  said  that  they  go  with  the 
estate  wherein  they  spread,  why  should  one  not  be  liable  ?     But  if 


8o  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

the  theory  that  the  roots  go  with  the  tree  remains,  how  is  the  lat- 
ter  part  of  the  Mishna  to  be  understood  :  If  the  tree  is  from  the 
sanctuary,  and  its  roots  spread  into  a  private  estate,  the  same  is 
the  case  ?  Now,  if  the  roots  go  with  the  tree,  why  is  one  not 
Hable  when  he  derives  benefit  from  it  ?  This  objection  cannot 
hold  good,  as  it  speaks  of  a  root  that  grew  after  the  tree  had 
already  been  sanctified  ;  and  there  is  a  Tana  who  holds  that  upon 
the  growth  which  takes  place  after  sanctification  no  transgression 
is  considered.  Rabhina,  however,  says  that  there  is  no  contra- 
diction in  that  Boraitha,  as  the  first  part  speaks  of  the  roots  which 
were  within  sixteen  ells  of  the  tree,  and  the  latter  part  of  those 
which  were  outside  of  the  sixteen  ells.  Hence  the  Mishna,  which 
states  "his,"  means  the  owner  of  the  tree. 

Ulla  said  :  A  tree  which  is  within  sixteen  ells  of  the  boundary 
of  another's  estate  is  considered  robbery,  as  it  derives  its  nourish- 
ment from  another's  estate,  and  its  fruit  must  not  be  used  for 
the  firstfruit  offering.  Whence  did  Ulla  deduce  this?  Shall  we 
assume  from  the  Mishna  [Sh'byith,  1.  7]:  "Ten  plants  which  are 
scattered  within  a  field  which  a  saah  of  grain  can  be  sown  in,  the 
entire  piece  of  land  may  be  ploughed  for  the  sake  of  the  trees 
until  the  new  Sabbath  year  comes  (as  the  trees  derive  nourish- 
ment from  the  entire  field  in  which  they  are  scattered,  which  is 
not  allowed  in  a  field  for  sowing  seeds)."  How  many  ells  are 
there  altogether  in  a  piece  of  land  which  is  fifty  ells  square  (this 
is  the  extent  of  ground  in  which  a  saah  of  grain  can  be  sown), 
if  divided  into  strips  of  one  ell  ?  Two  thousand  five  hundred. 
Then  each  tree  needs  for  its  nourishment  two  hundred  and  fifty ; 
and  this  would  not  correspond  with  Ulla's  theory,  as  he  requires 
sixteen  ells  on  each  side,  which  means  thirty-two  ells  square. 
And  if  it  should  be  divided  into  strips  of  one  ell,  it  would  be 
1,024  ells.  And  shall  we  say  from  the  Mishna  (ibid.,  ibid.  5): 
A  field  with  three  large  trees  (which  are  scattered  in  the  above 
space),  belonging  to  three  different  persons,  according  to  the 
Sabbatic  law  it  counts  as  a  tree  field,  so  that  it  may  also  be 
ploughed  until  the  new  Sabbatic  year  ?  Then,  of  the  two  thousand 
five  hundred  ells  each  tree  derives  its  nourishment  from  833^^ 
ells  ;  but  even  then  the  quantity  prescribed  by  Ulla  differs  by 
still  more.  Ulla  was  not  particular.  But  non-particularity  may 
be  applied  when  the  matter  is  taken  rigorously  ;  but  when  taken 
leniently  (as,  e.£^.,  in  Ulla's  case,  in  which  the  tree  becomes  free 
from  the  firstfruit  offering),  it  must  not  be  applied.  Ulla  meant 
to  say,  not  sixteen  ells  square,  but  sixteen  ells  in  a  circle,  and  as 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  8i 

a  square  measures  more  than  a  circle  by  one-fourth,  it  makes 
only  768  ells  for  nourishment ;  and,  according  to  the  cited 
Mishna,  each  tree  would  need  16^  ells  for  nourishment,  hence  he 
was  not  particular  in  the  two-thirds,  and  this  makes  it  more 
rigorous — to  which  non-particularity  applies.* 

But  why  only  sixteen  ells — does  not  our  Mishna  state  that  a 
space  of  twenty-five  ells  must  be  left  from  the  tree  to  the  well  ? 
Said  Abayi :  "  The  roots  spread  much  farther,  but  to  a  distance 
of  sixteen  ells  they  nourish  and  render  the  earth  poor;  while 
beyond  that  distance  they  do  not."  When  Rabbin  came  from 
Palestine,  he  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  that  from  a  tree 
near  the  boundary,  as  well  as  from  a  tree  whose  branches  are 
inclined  towards  another  estate,  the  firstfruit  offering  might  be 
brought ;  and  there  might  be  read  in  this  connection  the  passages 
from  the  Scriptures  referring  hereto,  as  with  this  stipulation  did 
Joshua  bequeath  the  land  to  Israel. 

MISHNA  XIIL:  If  the  branches  of  a  tree  are  inclined  towards 
another  field,  the  owner  of  the  field  may  cut  them  off  to  a  suffi- 
cient extent,  so  as  not  to  hinder  a  team  of  oxen  from  passing 
with  the  plough.  In  the  case  of  a  carob  or  a  sycamore,  however, 
it  must  be  measured  with  a  plummet  (cutting  off  all  the  branches 
as  far  as  they  hang  over  the  border  line)  ;  and  if  the  field  is  of 
dry  land,  the  branches  from  any  tree,  which  overhang  it,  may  be 
cut  off.  Aba  Shaul  said  that  the  same  is  the  case  with  every 
wild  tree. 

GEMARA :  The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question  :  Does 
Aba  Shaul  mean  to  oppose  with  his  decision  the  first  part  of  the 
Mishna,  saying  that  even  if  it  be  not  dry  land  the  branches  of  a 
wild  tree  must  be  cut  off  ;  or  the  second  part,  which  states  that 
the  branches  from  any  tree  must  be  cut  off — he  opposes,  saying 
only  of  a  wild  tree,  but  not  of  a  fruit-tree  ?  Come  and  hear  the 
following  Boraitha :  "  Aba  Shaul  said  :  Every  tree  of  which  the 
branches  overhang  a  dry  field  must  be  measured  with  a  plummet, 
because  the  shade  harms  a  dry  field."  Hence  his  opposition  was 
to  the  first  part.  Said  R.  Ashi :  "■  Even  if  the  Boraitha  did  not 
state  it  so  plainly,  this  could  be  understood  from  R.  Shaul's 
expression  in  our  Mishna,  as  it  states  every  wild  tree  ;  and  if  he 
opposed  only  the  second  part,  he  would  have  specified  a  wild 
tree.     Hence  his  opposition  is  to  the  first  part." 

*  There  are  many  commentaries  on  this  calculation,  which  would  be  too  compli- 
cated for  translation,  and  we  leave  it  to  the  mathematicians.     To  omit  this,  however, 
would  be  against  our  method. 
6 


82  THE    BABYLOxXIAN    TALMUD. 

MISHNA  XIV.  :  The  branches  of  a  tree  which  overhang 
public  ground  may  be  cut  off,  so  that  a  camel  with  its  rider  may 
pass  freely.  R.  Jehudah  says:  A  camel  loaded  with  flax  or  with 
bundles  of  branches.  R.  Simeon  says :  Every  tree  of  that  kind 
must  be  measured  with  a  plummet,  because  of  the  law  of  defile- 
ment. 

GEMARA :  Who  is  the  Tana  who  holds  that  concerning 
damages  we  have  to  consider  only  the  present  time,  and  not  the 
future?  (As  the  Mishna  states,  it  must  be  cut  off  only  for  a 
camel ;  and  does  not  consider  that  the  branches  grow  up  again.) 
Said  Resh  Lakish:  Tanaim  differ  in  this  case;  and  our  Mishna 
is  in  accordance  with  R.  Eliezer,  who  allows  in  a  Mishna  farther 
on  to  dig  caves  and  excavations  under  a  public  ground,  of  a  size 
sufficient  for  a  wagon  loaded  with  stones  to  pass.  R.  Johanan, 
however,  maintains  that  our  Mishna  may  be  also  in  accordance 
with  the  rabbis  of  that  Mishna  who  prohibit  this,  as  there  it  is 
to  be  feared  that  it  may  fall  suddenly ;  but  here,  each  branch 
that  grows  up  can  be  cut  off. 

"  R.  Simeon  says,"'  etc.  A  Boraitha  adds  to  this  "  for  the 
purpose  that  it  may  not  form  a  tent  of  defilement."  Is  this  not 
to  be  understood  from  the  Mishna  itself  ?  (As  what  other  law 
of  defilement  can  it  mean?)  If  from  it  one  may  say  that  it 
meant,  for  fear  a  raven  should  bring  something  unclean  and  de- 
posit it  on  the  tree ;  and  then  it  would  be  sufficient  to  cut  off 
some  branches,  so  that  the  branches  should  not  hold  anything, 
it  comes  to  teach  us  that  it  means  it  shall  not  form  a  tent,  and 
then  it  must  be  measured  with  a  plummet. 


CHAPTER  III. 

RULES  AND  REGULATIONS  CONCERNING  OCCUPANCY  (haZAKAh) — AT 
WHAT  TIME  AND  IN  WHAT  RESPECT  IT  GIVES  TITLE.  RE- 
PLEVINS BY  COURT.  PROPERTIES  OCCUPIED  BY  A  DEFENDANT 
WHO  IS  MIGHTIER  THAN  THE  PLAINTIFF  BUT  EQUAL  IN  EVI- 
DENCE. A  PROTEST  AGAINST  OCCUPANCY  IN  ONE'S  PRESENCE  OR 
ABSENCE  BY  ONE's  OPPONENT.  THE  WRITING  OF  BILLS  OF  SALE 
AND  DEEDS  OF  GIFT.  OCCUPANCIES  WHICH  CAME  FROM  INHER- 
ITANCE. THE  OCCUPANCIES  OF  SPECIALISTS,  PARTNERS,  GAR- 
DENERS, AND  GUARDIANS.  OBTAINING  PROPERTIES  FROM  THE 
CONTRACTING  COLLECTORS  OF  DUTIES  AND  TAXES.  BAILMENTS 
— OF  WHOM  THEY  MAY  BE  ACCEPTED.  PERSONAL  PROPERTIES 
TO  WHICH  THE  LAW  OF  OCCUPANCY  DOES  AND  DOES  NOT  APPLY. 
OPENING  OF  WINDOWS  AND  DOORS  TO  NEIGHBORS*  OR  PART- 
NERS* PROPERTIES,  AND  BUILDING  OF  CAVES,  PITS,  ETC.,  UNDER 
PUBLIC    GROUND. 

MISHNA  /. :  The  law  of  hazakah  (occupancy)  is,  if  one  has 
occupied  any  property  for  three  years  from  date  to  date  (without 
any  protest  from  another  party),  and  this  apphes  to  houses,  pits, 
excavations,  caves,  pigeon-coops,  bath-houses,  press-houses,  dry 
land,  slaves,  and  the  same  is  with  all  other  articles  which  bring 
fruit  frequently.  However,  to  a  field  not  artificially  watered,  the 
three  years  of  hazakah  must  not  be  counted  from  date  to  date. 
Thus,  according  to  R.  Ishmael  :  If  one  had  occupied  it  eighteen 
months — viz.,  three  months  in  the  first  year,  the  following  whole 
year,  and  three  months  of  the  third,  it  is  considered  three  years, 
and  constitutes  a  hazakah.  R,  Aqiba,  however,  said  :  "  Fourteen 
months — viz.,  one  month  of  the  first,  one  month  of  the  third,  and 
the  whole  second  year  suffices  to  constitute  a  hazakah."  Said 
R.  Ishmael  :  This  is  said  of  a  grain  field  of  which  the  products 
are  harvested  at  one  time  ;  but  if  an  orchard  were  within,  bearing 
olives  and  figs,  then,  if  one  has  harvested  the  grain,  pressed  the 
olives,  and  dried  the  figs,  it  is  considered  three  years. 

GEMARA  :  R.  Johanan  said  :  I  have  heard  that  the  Sanhedrin 
of  Usha  used  to  say  :  Whence  do  we  know  that  to  constitute  a 

83 


84  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

hazakah  three  years  are  needed?  From  the  law  of  a  goring  ox  ; 
as  an  ox,  when  it  gores  thrice,  comes  out  of  the  category  "  not 
vicious  "  and  is  placed  under  the  category  of  "  vicious."  So,  also, 
if  one  has  occupied  a  property  three  years  (without  protest),  it 
comes  out  from  the  control  of  the  seller  and  is  placed  under  the 
control  of  the  buyer. 

But  if  this  is  so,  it  can  be  said  that  as  a  vicious  ox  is  not  guilty 
unless  he  gores  the  fourth  time,  so  also  should  it  be  with  the 
hazakah,  that  it  shall  not  be  considered  until  the  fourth  year. 
Nay,  that  is  no  comparison.  An  ox  which  gores  three  times  be- 
comes vicious ;  but  even  then,  if  he  has  not  gored  oftencr,  what 
shall  he  pay?  But  here,  when  one  has  occupied  any  property  for 
three  years,  it  becomes  his.  But  according  to  this,  let  an  occu- 
pancy for  which  no  reason  can  be  given  by  the  occupant  be  con- 
sidered ;  and  this  is  not  permissible,  since  a  Mishna  further 
teaches  that  such  is  not  to  be  considered  ?  The  reason  that  three 
years  are  considered  a  hazakah  is  because  it  approves  the  claim  of 
the  occupant — e.g.,  if  the  plaintiff  claims,  "  You  have  stolen  it," 
and  the  defendant  says,  "  I  have  bought  it,"  the  occupancy  of 
three  years  approves  the  fact  that  the  defendant  tells  the  truth. 
But  if  to  the  question,  "  What  are  you  doing  on  my  property?  " 
he  has  no  answer,  what  shall  the  hazakah  approve?  Shall  the 
court  make  for  him  such  a  claim  as  he  himself  does  not? 
R.  Avira  opposed  :  If  hazakah  is  inferred  from  a  vicious  ox,  then 
a  protest  not  made  in  the  presence  of  an  occupant  should  not  be 
considered,  as  concerning  a  vicious  ox  the  maiming  must  be  in  his 
presence  [Ex.  xxi.  29]  ?  Nay ;  in  this  respect,  there  is  no  com- 
parison, as  there  the  Scripture  directs  that  the  w^arning  shall  be  in 
the  presence  of  the  owner.  But  here  the  protest  is  only  to  show 
that  he  had  not  relinquished  his  ownership,  and  if  he  has  pro- 
tested for  other  people  it  suffices,  as  he  (who  has  heard  the 
protest)  has  a  colleague,  and  his  colleague  has  another,  etc. ;  and  if 
it  is  said  in  public,  it  will  certainly  reach  the  ear  of  the  occupant. 
According  to  this,  if  he  has  occupied  it  three  months  and  consumed 
the  fruit  which  grew  each  month — e.g.,  di  pastio — let  it  be  consid- 
ered a  hazakah  ?  Was  not  R.  Ishmael  *  of  the  Sanhedrin  of  Usha  ? 
And  according  to  him  this  law  holds  good;  as  it  is  stated  in  our 
Mishna  that  if  he  has  harvested  his  grain,  etc.,  it  is  considered 
three  years,  according  to  R.  Ishmael.  But  what  is  the  reason  of 
the  decision  of  the  rabbis  ?     Said  Rabha :  Because  for  the  first 

*  Rashbam  says  it  is  unknown  to  him  wherefrom  the  Gemara  took  it  that  R. 
Ishmael  was  among  the  Sanhedrin  in  question. 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  85 

three  years  one  usually  takes  care  of  his  deed  ;  but  not  for  more 
than  this.  Said  Abayi  to  him  :  According  to  your  theory,  let  a 
protest  which  is  not  in  his  presence  not  be  considered  ;  as  the 
occupant  might  claim,  "  If  you  gave  the  protest  to  me,  I  would 
take  care  of  the  bill  of  sale,"  this  claim  cannot  be  considered  for 
the  reason  stated  above,  "  that  your  colleague  has  a  colleague,"  etc. 
R»  Huna  said  :  "  The  three  years  in  question  must  be  uninter- 
rupted." What  does  he  come  to  teach  us?  Is  it  not  stated  in 
our  Mishna,  three  years  from  date  to  date  ?  Lest  one  say  that 
it  means  to  exclude  the  case  which  is  told  in  the  Mishna,  of  a 
field  which  is  not  artificially  watered,  but  if  one  has  occupied  it 
three  years  on  an  average  it  is  considered  a  hazakah  even  if  it  was 
with  interruption,  he  comes  to  teach  us  that  it  is  not  so.  Said  R. 
Hamma :  R.  Huna  admits  that  in  places  where  it  is  usual  to  let 
the  fields  rest  one  year,  the  three  years  are  considered  hazakah, 
although  there  is  interruption.  Is  this  not  self-evident?  The 
case  was  when  he  had  his  field  in  dt.  pagus,  where  some  let  it  rest 
while  others  did  not  :  lest  one  say  that  the  plaintiff  might  claim, 
"  If  it  were  yours,  you  would  not  make  any  interruption,"  he 
comes  to  teach  us  that  the  defendant  might  claim,  "  It  was  more 
agreeable  for  me  this  way,  because  after  it  rests  a  year  it  brings 
more  produce."  But  does  not  our  Mishna  apply  hazakah  to 
houses  to  which  testimony  could  be  given  for  occupying  in  the 
day-time,  but  not  in  the  night-time  ?  (Hence  a  hazakah  is  con- 
sidered even  when  there  is  no  testimony  that  it  was  not  inter- 
rupted.) Said  Abayi :  Who  testifies  as  to  the  occupancy  of 
houses  ?  Neighbors.  And  neighbors  are  aware  of  the  nights  as 
well  as  of  the  days.  Rabha  said  :  The  Mishna  means  when  two 
witnesses  came  and  testified  :  "  We  have  rented  the  house  from 
the  defendant,,  and  lived  in  it  three  years,  day  and  night." 
Said  R.  Jimir  to  R.  Ashi  :  Are  the  witnesses  not  interested 
in  it ;  for  if  they  would  not  so  testify,  they  would  be  told  to 
pay  their  rent  to  the  plaintiff  ?  Answered  he  :  "  Ignorant  judges 
would  give  such  a  decision.  May  it  not  be  the  case  that  the 
witnesses  hold  the  rent  of  the  house,  asking,  To  whom  shall  we 
pay?"  Said  Mar  Zutra :  Nevertheless,  if  the  plaintiff  requires 
that  the  defendants  should  bring  two  witnesses  who  should 
testify  that  they  lived  in  the  house  three  years,  day  and  night,  the 
court  must  listen  to  him.  And  Mar  Zutra  admits,  if  the  plaintiff 
was  a  traveller  who  had  travelled  in  large  cities  with  his  stock 
that  although  he  does  not  require  the  testimony  for  day  and 
night,  the  court  may  claim  it  for  him.     And  R.  Huna  admits, 


86  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

that  in  stores  like  those  of  Mehusa,  which  are  usually  occupied 
in  the  daytime  only,  three  years  is  considered  a  hazakah. 

Rami  and  R.  Uqba,  the  sons  of  Hamma,  bought  a  female 
slave  jointly  :  one  kept  her  the  first,  third,  and  fifth  years,  and 
the  other  the  second,  fourth,  and  sixth.  And  thereafter  a  claim 
was  made  concerning  this  slave.  And  they  came  before  Rabha. 
Said  he  to  them :  Why  did  you  do  so— to  the  end  that  neither 
of  you  should  be  able  to  claim  hazakah  ?  As  it  is  not  a  hazakah 
for  each  of  you,  so  it  is  not  considered  a  hazakah  for  the  whole 
world.  This,  however,  applies  because  there  was  no  written 
agreement  between  you  that  she  should  serve  you  in  such  a 
manner.  But  if  such  had  been  written,  it  might  be  regarded  the 
same  as  if  it  were  made  public,  and  no  claim  is  to  be  considered. 
Rabha  said :  If  one  has  used  a  whole  field  the  years  of  hazakah, 
except  a  quarter  of  a  saah,  he  acquires  title  to  the  whole  field  ex- 
cept to  that  which  he  has  not  used.  Said  R.  Huna  to  R.  Joshua : 
It  is  so  if  this  piece  was  also  fit  for  sowing.  If,  however,  it  was 
not  fit  for  that,  title  is  acquired  to  it  also,  with  the  field.  R.  Bibi 
b.  Abayi  opposed  :  According  to  your  theory,  how  should  one 
make  a  hazakah  on  rocky  ground,  if  not  by  putting  cattle  or 
drying  fruit  there?  The  same  ought  to  be  done  with  that 
which  was  not  fit  for  sowing ;  and  because  he  has  not  done  so, 
title  is  not  acquired. 

There  was  one  who  said  to  his  neighbor  :  "  What  are  you  doing 
in  this  house?"  to  which  he  answered:  "I  bought  it  from  you 
and  have  occupied  it  the  years  of  hazakah."  Said  the  plaintiff  : 
"  I  used  to  live  in  the  front  rooms,  passing  through  yours,  and 
therefore  I  did  not  care  to  protest."  And  when  the  case  came 
before  R.  Na'hman,  he  said  to  the  defendant :  Go  and  bring  evi- 
dence that  you  have  occupied  the  whole  house  alone.  Said 
Rabha  to  him  :  Does  not  the  law  dictate  that  it  is  for  the  plaintiff 
to  bring  evidence  ? 

The  follov/ing  case,  however,  contradicts  both  R.  Na'hman 
and  Rabha.  It  once  happened  that  one  said  to  his  neighbor  :  "  I 
sell  you  all  the  properties  which  formerly  belonged  to  Bar  Sisin." 
There  was,  however,  another  estate  which  also  bore  the  name  of 
Bar  Sisin  estate,  and  the  buyer  wanted  to  take  possession  of  it; 
but  the  seller  claimed  that  this  had  never  belonged  to  Bar  Sisin, 
and  that  it  was  only  so  called.  And  when  the  case  came  before  R. 
Na'hman,  he  decided  that  it  belonged  to  the  buyer  ;  and  Rabha 
said  to  him  :  Does  not  the  law  dictate  that  it  is  for  the  plaintiff 
to  bring  evidence  ?     Hence  the  decision  of  this  case  contradicts 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA    (LAST   GATE).  87 

the  former  entirely  ?  Nay  ;  in  the  former  case  the  plaintiff  was 
the  owner  of  the  house,  and  in  the  latter  case  the  buyer  was  the 
plaintiff.  Hence  Rabha  did  not  change  his  decision.  And  con- 
cerning R.  Na'hman,  he  also  did  not  contradict  himself;  but 
merely  because  it  was  named  Bar  Sisin,  he  held  that  it  was  for- 
merly owned  by  Bar  Sisin,  and  it  was  for  the  claimant,  who  said 
it  was  not  so,  to  bring  evidence.  And  this  case  is  similar  to  a 
case  where  one  wants  to  deny  hazakah  with  a  note.  Would  it 
not  be  said  to  him  :  Bring  evidence  that  the  note  is  a  right  one, 
and  then  only  you  can  have  this? 

There  was  one  who  asked  his  neighbor^ "  What  are  you  doing 
in  this  house  ?  "  and  he  said,  "  I  bought  it  from  you,  and  I  have 
occupied  it  the  years  of  hazakah."  But  the  owner  claimed  that 
he  was  always  out  of  the  city  and  was  not  aware  that  he  had 
been  occupying  this  house,  and  therefore  no  protest  was  made. 
The  defendant,  however,  stated  he  had  witnesses  to  the  fact  that 
thirty  days  each  year  the  owner  used  to  be  in  the  city,  to  which 
the  plaintiff  again  answered :  "  These  thirty  days  I  was  always 
busy  in  the  market,  and  I  never  thought  about  my  house." 
When  the  case  came  before  Rabha,  he  decided  that  the  owner  of 
the  house  was  to  be  trusted. 

There  was  another  who  asked  his  neighbor,  "  What  are  you 
doing  on  my  estate?"  to  which  he  answered,  "  I  bought  it  from 
so  and  so,  who  told  me  that  he  bought  it  from  you."  Then  he 
said :  "  You  admit,  however,  that  the  estate  was  mine  and  that 
you  have  not  bought  it  from  me.  Then  go  (and  see  the  man 
you  bought  it  from).  /,  however,  have  nothing  to  do  with  you." 
And  Rabha  decided  that  the  plaintiff's  claim  was  in  accordance 
with  the  law. 

There  was  another  who  answered  to  the  same  question  as 
above :  "  I  bought  it  from  so  and  so,  and  occupied  it  the  years 
of  hazakah."  But  the  owner  answered  :  "  That  man  is  known  as 
a  robber."  The  defendant,  however,  claimed  that  he  had  wit- 
nesses that  at  the  time  he  bought  it  he  took  the  owner's  advice. 
To  which  the  plaintiff  answered :  "  It  is  true  I  advised  you  to 
buy  it,  because  it  would  be  easier  for  me  to  take  it  away  from 
you  than  from  the  robber."  Upon  which,  Rabha  decided  that 
the  plaintiff's  claim  was  in  accordance  with  the  law.  Is  this  in 
accordance  with  Admon  of  the  following  Mishna  :  "  If  one  claims 
that  this  estate  belongs  to  him  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  he 
was  a  witness  on  the  bill  of  sale  to  this  field,  it  may  be  con- 
sidered, because  he  may  claim  that  from  this  man  it  is  easier  for 


88  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

me  to  take  it  away  than  from  the  first.  So  is  the  decree  of 
Admon.  The  sages,  however,  maintained  that  when  he  was 
qualified  as  a  witness  he  lost  his  right."  It  may  be  even  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  rabbis,  as  in  the  case  of  the  cited  Mishna  he 
was  a  witness  in  writing ;  but  here  he  only  gave  his  advice  in 
words  and  had  not  lost  his  right. 

There  was  another  case  \vhere  one  questioned  and  answered 
the  same  as  above.  Said  the  defendant  :  "  I  have  witnesses  that 
you  called  upon  me  on  that  evening  and  requested  me  that  I 
should  sell  it  to  you,  without  your  mentioning  that  it  belonged 
to  you."  And  the  plaintiff  replied  :  "  I  thought  I  would  buy 
my  estate  for  a  small  amount,  instead  of  taking  the  matter  into 
court."  And  Rabha,  before  whom  the  case  came,  decided  that 
such  a  claim  might  be  considered. 

There  was  another  case  in  which  the  defendant  claimed  that 
he  bought  it  from  so  and  so,  and  had  occupied  it  the  years  of 
hazakah,  to  which  the  plaintiff  opposed  :  "  Here  is  a  bill  of  sale, 
showing  that  I  bought  it  four  years  ago  from  the  same  man  you 
claim  you  bought  it  from."  To  which  the  defendant  answered  : 
"  Do  you  think  by  the  expression  '  the  years  of  hazakah,'  I 
meant  three  years?  I  meant  many  years — so  that  I  had  occu- 
pied it  three  years  before  you  bought  it."  And  Rabha  decided 
that  people  call  many  years  the  years  of  hazakah.  But  this  can 
hold  good  only  when  he  has  occupied  it  seven  years,  so  that  the 
years  of  hazakah  have  preceded  the  bill  of  sale ;  but  if  he  has 
occupied  only  six  years,  then  the  claim  of  hazakah  cannot  be 
considered,  because  the  bill  of  .sale  is  the  greatest  protest. 

If  two  persons  come  before  the  court,  one  claiming,  "  This 
estate  was  my  parents',"  and  the  other  claiming,  "  It  was  my 
parents',"  and  one  of  them  brings  witnesses  that  it  was  his  par- 
ents', and  the  other  witnesses  that  he  had  occupied  it  the  years 
of  hazakah  ?  Said  Rabha :  The  one  who  brings  evidence  that 
he  occupied  it  the  years  of  hazakah  is  to  be  trusted,  since,  if  he 
wished  to  tell  a  lie,  he  could  claim,  "  I  bought  it  from  you  and 
have  occupied  it  the  years  of  hazakah."  Said  Abayi  to  him  : 
''The  supposition  if  he  cared  to  tell  a  lie  cannot  be  applied  in  a 
case  where  there  are  witnesses."  If  thereafter,  however,  the 
plaintiff  claims :  "  It  is  true  it  was  your  parents'  estate,  but  I 
bought  it  from  you.  And  by  what  I  said  before,  *  It  was  that  of 
my  parents,'  I  meant  that  tiiis  estate  was  so  long  in  my  posses- 
sion that  I  looked  upon  it  as  if  it  were  bequeathed  to  me  by  my 
parents" — may  one  change  his  claim   before  the  court,  or  not? 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  89 

According  to  Ula  he  may  do  so  by  giving  a  good  reason  ;  but  ac- 
cording to  the  sages  of  Nahardea,  he  may  not.  Ula,  however, 
admits  that  if  the  first  claim  was,  "  It  was  my  parents',  and  not 
yours,"  it  cannot  be  changed  in  any  circumstances.  The  same  is 
also  the  case  if,  before  the  court,  he  claimed  so,  and  afterwards, 
as  he  was  going  out,  he  claimed  otherwise,  since  it  is  to  be  sup- 
posed that  to  such  claims  he  was  advised  by  some  one  else,  and 
they  must  not  be  considered.  The  Nahardeans,  however,  admit 
also  that  if  this  man  claims,  "  When  I  said  my  parents'  estate,  I 
meant  that  my  parents  bought  it  from  yours,"  such  a  claim  is  to 
be  considered ;  and  also  that  if  one,  in  discussing  a  case  outside 
of  the  court,  did  not  mention  anything  of  that  which  he  is  now 
claiming  before  the  court,  he  cannot  be  accused  of  not  having 
said  so  before,  as  it  may  be  supposed  that  one  does  not  like  to 
tell  his  right  claim  to  people  in  absence  of  the  court.  Said  Ame- 
mar :  "  I  am  a  Nahardean,  and  nevertheless  hold  that  if  there  is 
a  good  reason  one  may  change  his  former  claim."  And  so  the 
Halakha  prevails. 

If  one  claims,  "  It  was  from  my  parents,"  and  the  other  claims 
the  same,  and  one  brings  evidence  that  it  was  his  parents'  and 
that  he  occupied  it  the  years  of  hazakah,  and  the  other  also 
brings  evidence  that  he  has  occupied  it  the  years  of  hazakah  ? 
Said  R.  Na'hman :  Disregard  the  claims  of  hazakah  which  con- 
tradict each  other,  and  decide  it  under  the  evidence  that  it  was 
from  the  parents,  which  was  not  denied.  Said  Rabha  to  him : 
But  do  not  the  witnesses  contradict  each  other,  and  in  such  a  case 
not  one  of  them  ought  to  be  taken  into  consideration  ?  And  he 
answered  :  They  contradict  each  other  as  to  the  years  of  hazakah, 
but  do  they  contradict  themselves  with  regard  to  the  parents? 

Shall  we  assume  that  Rabha  and  R.  Na'hman  differ  in  the 
same  way  as  R.  Huna  and  R.  Hisda  differ?  As  it  was  taught: 
If  two  parties  of  witnesses  contradict  each  other,  they  may  be 
listened  to  in  another  case  where  there  is  no  contradiction.  R. 
Hisda,  however,  maintains  that,  it  being  manifest  they  are  per- 
jurers, nothing  must  be  trusted  to  them. 

Shall  we  then  assume  that  R.  Na'hman  is  in  accordance  with 
R.  Huna,  and  Rabha  with  R.  Hisda?  Nay  ;  if  the  decision  were 
in  accordance  with  R.  Hisda,  Rabha  and  R.  Na'hman  would  not 
differ  (as,  according  to  R.  Hisda,  such  witnesses  cannot  be  used 
again  in  any  case).  Therefore  we  must  say  that  both  are  in 
accordance  with  R.  Huna;  and  nevertheless  they  differ,  as  R.abha 
maintains  that    even  according  to  R.  Huna   the  witnesses  are  fit 


90  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

for  another  case,  but  in  this  case  they  must  not  be  listened  to  in 
any  circumstances.  The  man  who  previously  brought  evidence 
that  he  had  occupied  it  the  years  of  hazakah,  found  thereafter 
witnesses  that  the  estate  was  his  parents'.  Said  R.  Na'hman : 
We  dispossessed  the  defendant  of  that  estate  (for  a  good  reason), 
and  now  that  the  circumstances  have  changed  we  may  bring  him 
in  again,  without  fear  that  this  would  be  a  humiliation  to  the 
court.  Rabha,  or,  according  to  others,  R.  Zera,  objected  from  a 
Mishna  in  Tract  Kethuboth,  which  states,  concerning  marriage, 
that  after  the  court  has  decided  no  change  is  to  be  made,  even 
in  the  event  of  new  evidence  being  introduced.  Said  R.  Na'hman 
to  him  :  I  was  about  to  practise  according  to  my  theory.  Now, 
as  you  object,  and  R.  Hamnuna  of  Suria  does  the  same,  I  shall  not 
do  so.  However,  thereafter  R.  Na'hman  acted  according  to  his 
theory.  One  who  had  seen  him  doing  so  thought  it  was  an  error 
on  his  part.  In  reality,  however,  it  was  not,  as  he  did  so  on  the 
basis  that  many  other  great  men  had  decided  that  the  humiliation 
of  the  court  must  not  be  taken  into  consideration. 

There  was  one  who  said  to  his  neighbor,  "  What  are  you 
doing  on  this  estate?"  to  which  he  answered,  "  I  bought  it  from 
you,  and  here  is  the  deed,"  to  which  the  defendant  opposed  that 
the  deed  was  false  :  The  plaintiff  bent  and  whispered  to  Rabba : 
Concerning  this  note,  his  claim  is  right.  However,  I  possessed, 
but  lost,  the  true  one ;  and  this  is  a  correct  copy.  Said  Rabba  : 
He  may  be  trusted,  since  if  he  wished  to  tell  a  lie  he  would 
claim  that  the  document  was  genuine.  Said  R.  Joseph  to  him  . 
"  But,  after  all,  what  is  the  basis  of  the  plaintiff's  evidence?  Is 
it  not  the  deed  in  question  in  reality  nothing  else  but  a  broken 
piece  of  clay,  as  he  has  himself  admitted  that  it  was  made  by 
him  ?" 

There  was  another  case  similar  concerning  a  hundred  zuz  in 
cash,  in  which  the  plaintiff  admitted  that  the  note  in  his  hand 
was  a  false  one,  made  instead  of  the  genuine,  lost ;  and  Rabba 
took  it  into  consideration  for  his  reason  stated  above,  and  R. 
Joseph  opposed  him  as  above.  And  R.  Iddi  b.  Abbin  said  : 
The  Halakha  prevails  in  accordance  with  Rabba  if  the  case  dealt 
with  real  estate,  because  we  leave  the  estate  in  the  possessor's 
hands.  And  the  Halakha  prevails  in  accordance  with  R.  Joseph 
if  the  case  concerned  ready-money,  for  the  same  reason  that  we 
have  to  leave  the  money  in  the  hands  of  the  possessor  {i.e.,  ac- 
cording to  the  rule  that  it  is  for  the  plaintiff  to  bring  evidence). 

There  was  a   surety  who  claimed  that  he  had  paid  to  the 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  91 

lender  for  the  borrower  one  hundred  zuz,  by  showing  the  note. 
Said  the  borrower  :  ''  Did  not  I  pay  you?"  And  he  answered  : 
"  But  did  you  not  take  it  again  from  me."  When  the  case  came 
before  R.  Iddi  b.  Abbin,  he  turned  it  over  to  Abayi,  and  Abayi 
sent  a  message  to  R.  Iddi :  Why  are  you  doubtful  in  this  case? 
Was  it  not  you  who  said  that  the  Halakha  prevails  with  R.  Jo- 
seph in  case  of  ready-money — that  is,  that  we  leave  the  money 
with  its  possessor  ?  This  law,  however,  holds  good  when  the 
surety  claims  he  lent  it  again,  without  giving  any  reason ;  but 
if  he  claims,  "  I  returned  the  money  because  it  was  not  circulat- 
ing," this  claim  must  be  considered,  and  the  note  is  in  force. 

It  was  murmured  among  people  that  Rabha  b.  Sharshum  had' 
appropriated  land  belonging  to  orphans;  and  Abayi  sent  for  him 
and  asked  him  to  tell  him  about  the  case.  And  he  told  him 
thus :  This  estate  was  pledged  to  me  by  the  father  of  the  or- 
phans. I,  however,  had  other  money  with  him  without  any 
pledge ;  and  after  I  had  collected  the  first  debt  from  the  product 
of  the  pledge  I  knew,  if  I  turned  over  the  estate  to  the  orphans 
and  claimed  that  I  had  other  money  with  their  father,  I  should 
have  to  take  an  oath  in  accordance  with  the  decision  of  the  rab- 
bis (stated  above,  p.  10).  Therefore  I  kept  the  pledge,  with 
the  deed,  until  I  should  collect  from  the  products  what  was  due 
me,  and  then  I  would  return  it.  And  the  court  must  take  my 
claim  into  consideration  in  accordance  with  the  theory  of  "be- 
cause " — that  is,  because  I  could  claim  that  I  had  bought  the 
estate  from  the  deceased,  and  I  would  be  trusted  after  I  had  oc- 
cupied it  the  years  of  hazakah,  therefore  my  claim  that  I  had 
money  with  the  deceased  must  be  regarded.  Said  Abayi  to 
him :  You  could  not  claim  you  had  bought  it,  as  people  are  still 
murmuring  that  the  estate  belongs  to  the  orphans.  Therefore 
you  must  return  the  estate  to  the  orphans,  and  when  they  shall 
be  of  age,  you  can  sue  them. 

A  relative  of  R.  Iddi  b.  Abbin  died,  and  left  a  tree,  and  another 
relative  took  possession  of  it.  But  R.  Iddi  claimed  that  he  was 
a  nearer  relative,  and  that  it  belonged  to  him,  while  the  other 
claimed  that  he  was  a  nearer  relative.  Finally  the  other  party 
admitted  that  R.  Iddi  was  a  nearer  relative,  and  R.  Hisda  trans- 
ferred the  tree  to  R.  Iddi.  Said  R.  Iddi  to  R.  Hisda :  This  man 
must  return  to  me  all  the  product  of  this  tree  which  he  has  con- 
sumed since  the  death  of  the  owner.  Said  R.  Hisda  to  him  :  Are 
you  the  man  about  whom  it  is  said  that  he  is  a  great  man  ?  Your 
claim  relies  upon  his  admission  that  you  are  a  nearer  relative, 


92  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

after  you  gave  evidence ;  but  until  that  time  he  felt  sure  that  he 
was  a  nearer  relative.  Consequently  he  has  consumed  the  fruit 
rightly,  and  his  admission  now  is  to  be  considered  as  if  he  made 
you  a  present.  Both  Abayi  and  Rabha  disagreed  with  R.  Hisda, 
as  his  admission  now  must  be  taken  into  consideration,  even  con- 
cerning the  previous  product. 

There  was  one  who  questioned  his  neighbor  as  to  what  he  was 
doing  on  his  estate,  and  he  answered :  "  I  bought  it  from  you, 
and  occupied  it  the  years  of  hazakah."  However,  he  found  wit- 
nesses for  the  occupancy  of  two  years  only ;  and  R.  Na'hman 
decided  he  should  return  the  estate,  and  also  the  value  of  the 
fruit  he  had  consumed  in  two  years.  Said  R.  Zebid  :  If  he  were 
to  claim :  "  I  did  not  intend  to  keep  the  estate,  but  had  the  right 
to  consume  the  fruit  thereof,  because  I  rented  it,"  he  is  to  be 
trusted ;  for  did  not  R.  Jehudah  say :  If  one  holds  a  scythe  and 
a  basket,  saying,  "  I  am  going  to  gather  the  dates  of  such  and 
such  a  tree,  which  I  bought,"  he  is  to  be  trusted,  because  one 
would  not  dare  to  take  possession  of  a  tree  which  does  not  belong 
to  him  ?  And  the  same  is  the  case  here,  for  no  one  would  dare 
to  consume  fruit  which  did  not  belong  to  him.  If  so,  why  should 
this  law  not  apply  to  an  estate  also  ?  For  land  a  deed  is  de- 
manded (as  nobody  would  buy  an  estate  without  a  deed) ;  but  in 
hiring  products,  a  deed  is  unusual,  and  therefore  it  cannot  be 
demanded. 

There  was  another  man  who  questioned  his  neighbor  as  to 
what  he  was  doing  on  his  estate,  and  he  answered,  "  I  bought  it 
from  you  and  occupied  it  the  years  of  hazakah,"  to  which  he 
brought  one  witness.  The  rabbis  who  were  in  the  presence  of 
Abayi,  before  whom  the  case  was  brought,  were  about  to  say 
that  this  was  similar  to  the  following  case :  One  snatched  a  piece 
of  silver  from  his  neighbor,  and  the  case  was  brought  before  R. 
Ami,  in  the  presence  of  R.  Abba,  and  the  plaintiff  brought  one 
witness  that  he  snatched.  And  the  defendant  answered:  "Yes, 
I  took  it ;  but  I  did  so  because  it  was  mine,"  And  R.  Ami  was 
deliberating,  "  How  decide  this  case  ?  "  Shall  he  repay  it  ?  There 
are  no  two  witnesses.  Shall  we  free  him  ?  There  is  one  witness. 
Shall  we  give  him  an  oath  ?  The  plaintiff  claims  that  he  snatched 
it,  which  is  robbery,  and  a  robber  is  not  to  be  trusted  with  an 
oath.  Said  R.  Abba  to  him  :  Consequently  this  man  is  obliged 
to  take  an  oath,  for  which  he  is  not  to  be  trusted.  And  the  law 
is,  that  he  who  is  obliged  to  take  an  oath  and  cannot  swear,  must 
pay.     Said  Abayi  to  them :  What  comparison  is  this  ?     A  case 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST    GATE).  93 

similar  to  R.  Abba's  would  be  if  the  plaintiff  had  brought  one 
witness  that  he  had  consumed  the  product  two  years ;  then  he 
would  have  to  pay,  because  he  would  not  be  trusted  with  an 
oath,  as  concerning  the  consumed  fruit  he  would  be  considered  a 
robber.*  But  here,  the  defendant  has  brought  a  witness  to  sup- 
port himself ;  and  if  he  had  another,  we  would  leave  the  whole 
estate  in  his  hand.  Hence  he  cannot  be  considered  a  robber  who 
is  not  to  be  trusted  to  take  an  oath,  and  therefore  we  cannot 
make  him  pay. 

There  was  a  boat  about  which  two  parties  quarrelled,  each 
claiming  that  it  was  his,  and  one  came  to  request  the  court  that 
it  should  take  charge  of  the  boat  until  he  should  be  able  to  get 
witnesses  that  it  was  his.  Should  his  request  be  granted,  or  not  ? 
According  to  R.  Huna,  it  should ;  and  according  to  R.  Jehudah, 
it  should  not.  But  in  case  the  request  was  granted  and  the  court 
took  charge  of  it,  and  the  other  party,  seeing  that  his  opponent 
could  not  find  evidence,  requested  that  the  court  should  resign 
its  charge  and  leave  it  to  the  parties,  so  that  he  who  could,  should 
take  possession  of  it — should  this  request  be  granted,  or  not  ? 
According  to  R.  Jehudah,  it  should  not ;  but  according  to  R. 
Papa,  it  might.  The  Halakha,  however,  prevails  that  in  such  a 
case  the  court  should  not  take  charge  of  it ;  but,  if  it  was 
already  done,  it  should  not  be  released  before  the  question  was 
decided. 

If  each  of  the  parties  claim:  "This  estate  belonged  to  my 
parents  " — said  R.  Na'hman  :  "  In  such  a  case,  the  law  of  the 
stronger  is  to  be  appHed."  But  why  should  this  case  be  different 
from  a  case  where  two  notes  are  given  out  on  the  very  same  date 
to  two  different  persons,  and  the  property  of  the  debtor  is  suffi- 
cient for  the  payment  of  one  note  only,  in  which  Rabh's  decision 
was  that  the  property  should  be  divided  between  both  creditors 
equally ;  and  Samuel's,  that  it  must  be  left  to  the  consideration 
of  the  judges,  so  that  they  might  give  the  preference  to  him  who 
had  more  right  according  to  their  opinion  ?  It  is  because  there  is 
no  hope  that  one  of  them  would  bring  evidence  that  he  has  the 
preference  (since  the  notes  were  written  on  one  and  the  same  day, 
and  even  if  one  should  bring  witnesses  that  his  note  was  written 
before  the  other,  there  is  a  rule  that  there  is  no  priority  in  a 

*  The  text  contains  only  a  few  words,  but  very  complicated  ;  the  commentators 
try  to  explain  it  at  length,  but  they  differ  as  to  the  meaning,  and  their  interpretation 
is  no  less  complicated.  We  have  done  the  best  we  could,  that  the  reader  should  have 
an  idea  of  it. 


94 


THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 


matter  of  hours) ;  but  in  one  case  there  is  hope  that  one  of  them 
may  bring  evidence.  But  why  should  this  case  not  be  equal  to 
the  one  in  Mishna  4,  p.  261,  Middle  Gate,  about  the  doubt  when 
the  young  ass  was  born,  and  it  was  decided  that  it  should  be 
divided  ?  There  each  of  the  parties,  claiming  it  was  born  while 
under  his  control,  has  an  equal  chance ;  but  here  each  of  them 
claims  the  whole  article  to  be  his  own,  and  the  court  cannot 
decide  that  it  should  be  divided,  since,  if  the  claim  of  the  one  be 
true,  the  other  has  never  had  any  right  to  it.  Said  the  Nahar- 
deans :  If  a  third  party  from  the  market  came  and  took  posses- 
sion of  it,  the  court  has  no  right  to  take  it  away  from  him, 
because  there  is  no  plaintiff.  As  R.  Hyya  taught :  If  one  steals 
an  article  belonging  to  many  persons,  he  cannot  be  considered  a 
thief  whom  the  court  can  compel  to  return  it,  as  there  is  no 
plaintiff.  Said  R.  Ashi :  R.  Hyya  meant  to  say  that  he  cannot 
be  considered  a  thief  who  atones  by  returning  the  article,  for  he 
does  not  know  whom  he  robbed ;  but  the  court  may  compel  him 
to  place  the  article  under  its  charge. 

"  Three  years  from  date  to  date,''  etc.  Said  R.  Aba:  If  there 
are  witnesses  who  testify  that  the  plaintiff  has  loaded  a  basket  of 
fruit  from  this  field  on  the  shoulders  of  the  defendant,  the  haza- 
kah  is  effected  immediately.  Said  R.  Zebid  :  If,  however,  the 
plaintiff  claims,  "  I  have  let  him  this  field  for  the  products  only," 
he  is  to  be  trusted,  provided  this  claim  was  made  during  the 
three  years  of  hazakah,  but  not  afterwards.  Said  R.  Ashi  to  R. 
Kahana :  Why  should  not  his  claim  be  regarded  even  after  three 
years,  as,  if  he  sold  (for  three  years)  him  the  fruit,  what  should 
he  do  before  the  time  had  elapsed  ?  Answered  R.  Kahana :  He 
should  have  protested  before  the  time  the  hazakah  elapsed,  so 
that  it  should  be  known  that  the  estate  belonged  to  him.  If 
this  were  not  the  case,  the  pledges  of  Sura,  in  the  documents  of 
which  are  written  :  "  After  the  time  of  these  pledges  elapses,  this 
estate  shall  be  returned  without  any  payment,"  how  is  it  if  the 
possessor  of  the  estate  should  hide  the  pledged  deed  after  three 
years,  and  claim,  "  I  have  bought  it  " — should  he  be  trusted  ? 
Would,  then,  the  rabbis  enact  such  a  thing  as  could  do  harm  to 
the  pledger?  We  must  then  say  that  the  pledger,  before  the 
lapse  of  the  time,  must  proclaim  his  protest,  so  that  it  shall  be 
known  that  the  estate  belongs  to  him.  The  same  is  the  law  in 
our  case. 

R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh  said  :  An  Israelite  who 
has    bought    a    field    of    a  Gentile,    who    has    occupied    it    the 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  95 

years  of  hazakah,  claiming  to  have  bought  it  from  another  Israel- 
ite, but  had  not  shown  any  deed,  the  law  of  hazakah  does  not 
apply  to  the  last  buyer,  even  if  he  has  occupied  it  three  years  or 
more,  because  he  relies  upon  the  Gentile,  and  the  law  of  hazakah 
does  not  apply  to  Gentiles  (who  are  mightier) ;  and  it  may 
happen  that  he  has  occupied  the  estate  without  any  right,  be- 
cause the  Israelite  was  afraid  to  claim  it  (unless  he  shows  a  deed). 
Said  Rabha :  If  the  last  buyer  claims,  "  I  was  told  by  the  Gentile 
that  he  bought  it  from  you,"  he  is  to  be  trusted,  because  he  could 
claim,  "  I  myself  bought  it  from  you,  and  occupied  it  the  years  of 
hazakah."  But  is  such  a  thing  possible,  that  if  the  Gentile  should 
claim  the  property  in  his  own  name  he  would  not  be  relied  upon 
because  the  law  of  hazakah  does  not  apply  to  him,  and  when  the 
Israelite  claims  in  the  Gentile's  name  he  is  to  be  trusted  ?  There- 
fore Rabha's  statement  was  thus :  If  the  last  buyer  claims,  "  In 
my  presence  the  Gentile  bought  it  from  you,  and  then  he  sold  it 
to  me,"  he  is  to  be  trusted,  because  he  could  claim,  '*  I  bought  it 
directly  from  you."  R.  Jehudah  said  again :  If  one  holds  a 
scythe  and  a  basket,  saying,  "  I  am  going  to  cut  off  the  dates 
from  the  tree  which  I  bought  of  its  owner,"  he  is  to  be  trusted, 
as  one  would  not  dare  to  go  publicly  to  cut  off  products  which 
do  not  belong  to  him.  The  same  said  again  :  If  one  has  occupied 
a  piece  of  land  which  was  outside  the  fence  of  one's  field  (which 
they  usually  sowed  for  the  wild  beasts  to  feed  on),  he  cannot 
claim  hazakah,  as  the  owner  may  say,  "  I  did  not  protest  because 
I  could  not  have  made  use  of  it  anyhow,  for  the  wild  beasts 
would  have  consumed  the  produce."  If  one  of  the  years  of 
hazakah  happened  to  be  a  year  of  ar/a,  it  is  not  to  be  considered. 
And  so,  also,  we  have  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha :  If  one 
of  the  years  was  a  Sabbatic  or  an  ar/a  year,  or  one  has  sown  it 
with  Kilaim,  it  must  not  be  considered.  R.  Joseph  said  :  If  in 
the  hazakah  years  he  harvested  the  stalks  while  yet  unripe,  it  is 
not  to  be  considered  (because  he  has  not  occupied  it  as  usual). 
Said  Rabha :  But  if  this  was  around  the  city  of  Mehusa  it  is  to 
be  considered,  because  all  the  farmers,  on  account  of  their  cattle, 
are  in  the  habit  of  doing  so.  R.  Na'hman  said :  To  land  which 
is  full  of  pits  and  cannot  be  worked  up  properly  the  law  of  haza- 
kah does  not  apply,  because  the  owner  may  claim,  "  As  it  was  of 
no  use  to  me,  I  did  not  protest."  The  same  is  the  case  with  such 
fields  as  return  no  more  than  was  sown  in  them.  And  also  in 
the  case  of  exilarchs,  to  an  estate  which  is  bought  from  them,  or 
which  they  buy,  the  law  of  hazakah  does  not  apply,  because  they 


96  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

are  mighty,  and  no  one  would  dare  to  protest  against  them  ;  and, 
also,  they  themselves  do  not  care  to  protest. 

''Slaves.'*  Does  the  law  of  hazakah  apply  to  slaves?  Did 
not  Resh  Lakish  say  :  To  every  living  creature  the  law  of  hazakah 
does  not  apply  ?  Said  Rabha  :  He  means  to  say  it  does  not  apply 
before  three  years  {i.e.,  one  cannot  claim  that  he  bought  it  as  he 
may  do  with  other  personal  property  for  which  no  evidence  is 
needed  when  found  in  his  possession),  but  after  three  years  it 
does.  And  Rabha  said  again  :  If  this  slave  was  an  infant  lying 
in  his  cradle,  the  law  of  hazakah  applies  immediately.  Is  this  not 
self-evident  ?  He  means  even  in  case  it  has  a  mother  ;  and  lest 
orie  say  that  it  is  to  be  feared  that  its  mother  left  it  there,  it  comes 
to  teach  us  that  this  is  not  to  be  feared,  because  usually  a  mother 
does  not  forget  her  child. 

There  were  goats  that  consumed  peeled  barley  in  the  city  of 
Nahardea,  and  the  owner  of  the  barley  caught  them  and  would 
not  return  them  until  the  value  of  the  barley  was  paid.  And  his 
claim  was  of  considerable  amount,  and  the  father  of  Samuel  de- 
cided that  he  might  claim  the  value  of  all  the  goats,  as  if  he  were 
to  claim  that  he  bought  them  he  ought  to  be  trusted,  seeing  that 
they  were  found  in  his  possession.  But  did  not  Resh  Lakish 
say  that  the  law  of  hazakah  does  not  apply  to  living  creatures  ? 
Why  did  the  father  of  Samuel  decide  (Middle  Gate,  pp.  306  seq.) 
that  he  could  collect  the  whole  value  of  the  goats?  (See  there.) 
With  goats  it  is  different,  as  they  are  usually  transferred  to  the 
shepherd.  But  do  not  goats  go  in  the  morning  and  evening 
without  the  shepherd?  In  the  city  of  Nahardea  thieves  were  fre- 
quently found,  and  the  shepherds  used  to  deliver  the  cattle  into 
the  hands  of  their  owners. 

"  Three  months  tJi  the  first  year,''  etc.  Shall  we  assume  that 
the  point  of  difference  between  R.  Ishmael  and  R.  Aqiba  is  that 
one  holds  ploughing  is  a  hazakah  {i.e.,  if  one  ploughs  a  field  and 
the  owner  does  not  protest,  it  is  supposed  that  he  bought  it  from 
him).  And  one  holds  that  it  is?  But  how  can  you  bear  in  mind 
that  R.  Aqiba  holds  ploughing  to  be  a  hazakah,  when  he  means  a 
whole  month  in  two  hazakah  years?  Is  one  day  not  sufficient 
for  ploughing?  Therefore  we  must  say  that,  according  to  all, 
ploughing  is  not  considered  a  hazakah,  and  the  point  of  their  dif- 
ference is  ripe  and  unripe  fruits.  According  to  R.  Ishmael,  the 
hazakah  applies  only  to  ripe  fruits,  and  according  to  R.  Aqiba  also 
to  unripe  ones. 

The  rabbis  taught  :  Ploughing  is  not  a  hazakah.     According 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  97 

to  others,  it  is.  Who  are  the  others?  Said  R.  Hisda  :  It  is  R. 
Aha  of  the  following  Boraitha.  If  one  has  ploughed  it  one  year 
and  sown  it  two,  or  vice  versa,  it  is  not  a  hazakah.  R.  Aha, 
however,  says  it  is.  Said  R.  Ashi  :  I  have  questioned  all  the 
great  men  of  this  generation,  and  they  have  told  me  that 
ploughing  is  a  hazakah.  Said  R.  Bibi  to  R.  Na'hman  :  The  reason 
of  him  who  holds  that  ploughing  is  a  hazakah  is  because  that 
usually  one  would  not  keep  silent  if  a  stranger  came  and  ploughed 
his  land.  And  the  reason  of  him  who  holds  that  ploughing  is  not 
a  hazakah,  is  because  the  owner  might  think  :  "  I  can  derive  bene- 
fit from  every  furrow  he  makes  with  the  plough  on  my  land,  so 
I  will  protest  afterwards." 

The  inhabitants  of  the  city  of  Pumnahara  sent  a  message  to 
R.  Na'hman  b.  R.  Hisda  thus  :  Let  the  master  teach  us  if  plough- 
ing is  a  hazakah  or  not.  And  he  answered:  R.  Aha  and  all  the 
great  men  of  this  generation  have  decided  that  ploughing  is  a 
hazakah.  Said  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak :  It  was  too  much  of  him 
to  assert,  "  All  the  great  men."  Are  not  Rabh  and  Samuel  in 
Babylon,  and  R.  Ishmael  and  R.  Aqiba  in  Palestine,  who  hold 
that  ploughing  is  not  a  hazakah  ?  R.  Ishmael  and  R.  Aqiba  we 
hear  saying  so  in  our  Mishna,  but  where  did  Rabh  and  Samuel 
say  so  ? 

As  R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh  :  R.  Ishmael  and 
R.  Aqiba  were  a  minority  of  the  sages,  but  the  majority  of  the 
sages  held  that  a  hazakah  is  three  years  from  date  to  date.  And 
this  was  certainly  to  exclude  ploughing.  And  concerning  Samuel, 
said  also  R.  Jehudah  in  his  name :  This  was  the  opinion  of  R. 
Ishmael  and  R.  Aqiba  only  ;  but  all  the  other  sages  held  that  the 
hazakah  does  not  apply  unless  one  has  harvested,  gathered  the 
vintage,  and  pressed  olives,  each  of  them  three  times.  What  is  the 
difference  between  Rabh  and  Samuel — as,  according  to  both, 
three  years  are  needed  ?  Said  Abayi :  A  young  tree  which  bears 
fruit  on  the  average  three  times  in  less  than  three  years,  accord- 
ing to  Samuel  it  is  a  hazakah,  and  according  to  Rabh  it  must  be 
from  date  to  date. 

"  Said  R.  Ishmael  .  .  .  a  field  for  grain"  etc.  Said  Abayi : 
From  R.  Ishmael's  decision,  that  three  harvestings  suffice  to  con- 
stitute hazakah,  we  can  understand  the  opinion  of  the  rabbis 
opposing  him  :  If  the  field  contains  thirty  trees,  each  ten  of  which 
take  up  a  space  where  a  saah  of  grain  can  be  sown,  and  the  de- 
fendant has  used  ten  the  first  year,  ten  the  second,  and  ten  the 
third,  it  is  a  hazakah,  although  three  years  have  not  yet  elapsed 
7 


98  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

(as  he  has  consumed  in  each  year  what  was  ripe).  And  this  is  to 
be  inferred  from  R.  Ishmael's  statement  that  each  performance  of 
the  three  articles  is  counted  as  if  it  were  done  thrice,  to  con- 
stitute a  hazakah.  The  same  is  the  case  with  the  thirty  trees  : 
the  consuming  of  each  ten  is  counted  with  the  consuming  of  the 
others,  and  therefore  it  constitutes  a  hazakah.  But  this  is  only 
the  case  when  but  ten  of  them  were  ripe  each  year  ;  but  if  more 
were  ripe,  and  he  only  consumed  ten,  it  is  not.  And  the  same  is 
the  case  if  the  ten  trees  were  ripe  in  one  place  only  the  first  year, 
ten  in  another  place  the  second,  and  ten  in  a  third  place  the 
last  year ;  for  in  order  to  constitute  a  hazakah,  the  trees  must  be 
scattered  throughout  the  whole  field,  three  or  four  of  them  grow- 
ing in  the  space  of  a  saah  each  year. 

If  one  has  made  a  hazakah  on  the  trees  and  another  upon  the 
ground,  each  of  them  acquires  title  to  what  he  holds.  So  said 
R.  Zebid :  R.  Papa  opposed  ;  for,  according  to  this  theory,  the 
one  who  has  made  a  hazakah  on  the  trees  has  nothing  in  the 
ground.  So  let  the  owner  of  the  field  say  to  the  owner  of  the 
trees,  "  Cut  down  your  trees  and  go."  "  Therefore,"  said  he,  "  in 
such  a  case  one  has  acquired  title  to  the  trees  and  half  of  the 
ground,  and  the  other  to  the  other  half  of  the  ground." 

It  is  certain  if  one  has  sold  his  ground  and  left  the  trees,  the 
ground  required  by  the  trees  must  be  left  for  them ;  for  even 
according  to  R.  Aqiba,  who  said  elsewhere  that  usually  when 
one  sold  a  thing  he  did  so  with  a  good  eye  {i.e.,  with  the  inten- 
tion of  benefiting  the  buyer),  this  is  only  in  case  he  sold  him  a 
well.  We  must  say  the  stone-walls  to  the  well  on  his  property 
are  also  sold  to  him.  But  in  this  case,  where  he  retains  the 
trees,  which  make  the  ground  poor,  and  also  their  roots  may  hin- 
der the  plough,  it  is  certainly  his  intention  that  the  ground 
needed  for  the  trees  shall  remain  his,  as  otherwise  the  buyer  will 
have  a  right  to  demand  from  him  that  he  shall  cut  down  his 
trees.  But  if  he  has  sold  the  trees  and  retained  the  ground,  in 
this  case  the  rabbis  and  R.  Aqiba  differ.  According  to  R.  Aqiba, 
who  holds  that  usually  the  seller  sells  with  a  good  eye,  the  buyer 
has  a  right  to  the  growing  of  the  trees.  But  according  to  the 
rabbis,  who  do  not  hold  so,  the  buyer  has  no  such  right.  And 
even  according  to  R.  Zebid,  who  said  above,  in  the  case  of  haza- 
kah, that  each  of  them  has  nothing  in  that  which  the  other  has 
occupied,  it  is  only  as  to  buyers  that  the  one  who  has  occupied 
the  ground  can  say  to  him  who  possesses  the  trees,  "  As  I  have 
nothing  in   your  trees,   so  you   have    nothing  in   my  ground." 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST   GATE).  99 

But  in  case  of  selling,  according  to  the  rule  that  a  seller  sells  with 
a  good  eye,  this  claim  cannot  apply  even  in  accordance  with  the 
opinion  of  the  rabbis.  And  even  R.  Papa,  who  said  above  that 
the  owner  of  the  trees  has  a  share  in  the  ground,  it  is  only  in 
the  above  case  where  there  were  two  buyers — the  one  who  buys 
the  trees  and  the  buyer  of  the  ground — that  each  of  them  can 
claim,  "  As  the  owner  sold  to  you  with  a  good  eye,  so  did  he  to 
me."  But  in  this  case,  according  to  the  rabbis,  who  hold  that  a 
man  usually  sells  with  a  bad  eye  {i.e.,  with  the  intention  of  bene- 
fiting merely  himself),  R.  Papa  may  also  agree  that,  according 
to  the  rabbis'  theory,  the  buyer  of  the  trees  has  no  claim  to  the 
ground.  The  Nahardeans  said  that  if,  of  the  above-mentioned 
thirty  trees,  fifteen  of  them  were  planted  in  the  space  of  a  saah, 
although  he  had  consumed  the  product  of  all  of  them  three  years 
successively,  it  is  not  considered  a  hazakah,  because  he  has  not 
done  as  people  do  {i.e.,  fifteen  trees  in  the  space  of  a  saah  cannot 
bear  good  products,  and  the  one  who  possesses  such  usually  cuts 
out  many  of  them  to  make  room  for  the  others  ;  and  as  he  did 
not  do  so,  it  seems  that  he  does  not  consider  this  to  be  his  prop- 
erty). Rabha  opposed  this.  For,  according  to  this  theory,  one 
could  never  acquire  title  to  a  bed  of  a  pastio,  which  is  usually 
sown  three  times  a  year,  and  the  overcrowding  is  thinned  out  to 
make  space  for  the  remainder  (and  when  the  occupant  has  only 
consumed  them,  and  not  thinned  out,  he  does  not  acquire  title). 
"  Therefore,"  said  he,  "  in  such  a  case  he  acquires  title  to  the 
trees,  and  not  to  the  ground."  Said  R.  Zera :  In  this  case  the 
Tanaim  of  the  following  Mishna  differ :  A  vineyard  which  was 
planted  in  less  than  four  ells'  space,  R.  Simeon  said  :  Concerning 
Kilaim,  it  is  not  considered  a  vineyard  at  all.  The  sages,  how- 
ever, maintained  that  it  is  so  considered,  and  the  middle  ones  are 
to  be  considered  as  if  they  did  not  exist  {i.e.,  the  law  of  a  vine- 
yard, which  should  interfere  with  other  kinds  of  seeds,  is  that  it 
must  be  planted  so  that  between  each  row  of  the  vines  four  ells 
of  space  must  be  left;  and  if  not,  it  is  not  called  a  vineyard. 
But  according  to  the  rabbis,  the  middle  one  is  not  considered ; 
consequently  there  is  more  than  four  ells'  space  between  them, 
and  it  does  interfere — hence,  according  to  this  theory,  of  the 
trees  in  question  which  were  overcrowded,  fifteen  in  the  space  of 
a  saah,  the  middle  ones  are  not  to  be  considered,  according  to 
the  rabbis ;  but  they  are  considered,  according  to  R.  Simeon). 

The  Nahardeans  said   again  :  If  one  has  sold  a  tree  to  his 
neighbor,  the  buyer  acquires  title  to  it  from  beneath  it  unto  the 


iQO  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

deep.  Rabha  opposed.  Why  should  it  be  said  that  the  whole 
ground  unto  the  deep  shall  be  sold  to  him  ?  The  seller  may 
claim  :  I  sold  it  to  you  as  people  used  to  sell  a  saffron  tree,  of 
which  the  buyer  derives  the  benefit  as  long  as  the  tree  yields 
fruit,  but  after  it  became  withered,  the  buyer  had  to  remove  it 
and  leave  the  ground  to  the  seller.  Therefore  said  Rabha :  This 
applies  only  to  him  who  claims  that  he  bought  it  with  the  stipu- 
lation that  if  the  tree  dies  he  may  plant  another  one  in  its  place, 
and  after  he  possessed  it  the  years  of  hazakah.  Said  Mar  the 
Elder,  the  son  of  R.  Hisda,  to  R.  Ashi :  Even  if  it  was  a  saffron 
tree,  and  in  such  a  case  the  buyer  usually  cares  for  the  valuable 
saffron,  and  not  the  ground  beneath,  what  should  the  seller  do 
if,  after  the  three  years,  the  buyer  claims  he  has  also  bought  the 
ground  (so  that  he  can  plant  another  one)  ?  And  he  answered  : 
The  seller  should  protest  before  the  years  of  hazakah  elapse,  as 
is  said  above. 

MISHNA  //. :  There  are  three  lands  concerning  the  law  of 
hazakah  :  The  land  of  Judea,  the  land  on  the  other  side  of  the 
Jordan,  and  of  Galilee.  If  the  owner  of  the  estate  was  in  Judea, 
and  one  has  made  a  hazakah  in  Galilee,  or  vice  versa,  it  is  not 
considered  a  hazakah  unless  the  owner  of  the  estate  should  be 
with  the  occupant  in  one  and  the  same  country.  Said  R.  Jehu- 
dah  :  The  law  of  three  years  is  made  only  for  the  purpose  that  if 
the  owner,  for  instance,  was  in  Spain,  and  his  estate  was  in  Judea, 
which  is  a  year's  journey  from  there,  if  one  has  occupied  his 
estate  while  on  the  road,  a  year's  time  is  given  for  him  to  be  no- 
tified, and  another  year  for  his  return  {i.e.,  no  matter  where  he  is, 
three  years  suffice  for  hazakah). 

GEMARA :  Let  us  see  !  What  does  the  first  Tana  of  the 
Mishna  hold  ?  If  a  protest  in  the  absence  of  the  occupant  is  con- 
sidered, then,  even  when  one  was  in  Judea  and  the  other  in  Gali- 
lee, he  could  protest ;  and  if  it  is  not  considered,  then  even  if 
both  were  in  one  country,  when  they  are  not  in  one  city,  the 
hazakah  should  not  apply,  as  he  could  not  protest.  Said  R. 
Abba  b.  Mamal  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  He  holds  that  a  protest 
not  in  his  presence  is  to  be  considered.  But  our  Mishna  treats 
of  a  case  of  war,  during  which  this  protest  would  be  of  no  use 
(because  there  would  be  no  one  to  notify  him).  And  why  does 
he  mention  Judea  and  Galilee  ?  To  teach  that  these  two  coun- 
tries are  always  considered  as  if  there  might  be  a  war  between 
them,  as  caravans  going  from  one  country  to  the  other  are  very 
rare. 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  loi 

R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh  said  :  If  one  runs  away  from 
a  city  because  of  crime,  etc.,  and  one  occupies  his  estate,  the  law 
of  hazakah  applies.  And  R.  Jehudah  continued :  After  Rabh's 
death  I  said  this  Halakha  in  his  name  before  Samuel,  and  he  said 
to  me  :  Is  this  not  self-evident  ?  Must,  then,  a  protest  be  in  one's 
presence?  (Says  the  Gemara  :)  And,  indeed,  what  news  did 
Rabh  teach  with  this  statement,  unless  that  a  protest  not  in  one's 
presence  is  considered  ?  He  already  said  so  elsewhere.  With 
this  statement  he  teaches  us  that,  even  when  the  protest  was  be- 
fore two  witnesses  who  were  not  able  to  notify  the  occupant,  it 
is  nevertheless  considered  a  protest.  As  R.  Anan  said ;  Mar 
Samuel  has  explained  to  me  his  opinion  that  only  when  one  pro- 
tested in  the  presence  of  two  witnesses  who  are  able  to  notify 
the  occupant,  it  is  considered ;  but  not  otherwise.  Rabh,  how- 
ever, is  of  the  opinion  :  "  Thy  colleague  has  another  colleague," 
etc. ;  and  so,  when  protested  before  two,  it  will  become  known. 
Said  Rabha :  The  Halakha  prevails  that  the  law  of  hazakah  does 
not  apply  to  the  property  of  one  who  runs  away,  and  also  that  a 
protest  which  is  not  in  one's  presence  is  considered.  Are  not  the 
two  Halakhas  contradictory  of  each  other?  This  presents  no 
difficulty.  If  one  runs  away  because  of  money  matters,  he  is  not 
afraid  to  protest,  as  he  does  not  care  whether  his  residence  is 
made  known ;  but  if  one  runs  away  on  account  of  a  crime,  then 
he  cannot  protest,  as  this  would  make  known  his  hiding-place. 

How  should  one  protest?  Said  R.  Zebid  :  If  the  protest  was, 
so  and  so  is  a  robber ;  it  does  not  suffice,  but  he  must  protest : 
"  He  is  a  robber  who  has  robbed  me  of  my  estate,  and  as  soon  as 
it  is  possible  I  shall  summon  him."  But  how  is  the  law  if  he 
added  to  this  protest,  "  Do  not  notify  him  of  my  protest  "  ?  Said 
R.  Zebid :  How  can  this  be  considered,  when  he  plainly  says:  Do 
not  notify  him.  R.  Papa,  however,  is  of  the  opinion  that  it 
means :  Do  not  notify  hitn,  but  tell  it  to  other  people,  so  that  he 
will  become  aware  of  it  afterwards.  How  is  the  law  if  the  wit- 
nesses told  him  :  We  will  not  notify  him?  According  to  R.  Zebid, 
such  a  protest  is  not  to  be  considered,  and  according  to  R.  Papa, 
it  is,  because  although  they  should  not  notify  him,  they  will  never- 
theless tell  it  to  other  people.  But  how  is  it  if  the  protestor 
said  :  Do  not  mention  it  to  any  one  ?  According  to  R.  Zebid,  it 
is  certainly  not  to  be  considered.  But  how  is  it  when  they  said : 
We  will  not  mention  this  to  any  one  ?  According  to  R.  Papa,  it 
is  not  to  be  considered.  R.  Huna  b.  R.  Jehoshua,  however,  main- 
tains that,  even  then,  it  is  a  protest,  as  a  thing  which  does  not 


102  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

belong  to  a  man,  he  will   talk  about   it  some  time,  and   it  will 
become  known. 

Rabha  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Na'hman :  A  protest  not  in 
one's  presence  is  to  be  considered ;  and  he  opposed  him  from  the 
statement  of  R.  Jehudah  in  our  Mishna,  who  said  that  a  year  is 
allowed  for  notifying  him  and  a  year  for  returning.  And  if  a 
protest  not  in  one's  presence  should  sufifice,  why  must  he  come 
back?  And  he  answered:  R.  Jehudah's  statement  is  only  an 
advice  for  one  that  he  had  better  come  himself,  so  that  he  should 
be  able  to  take  possession  of  the  estates  and  products.  (Says  the 
Gemara  :)  From  that  which  Rabha  objected,  it  must  be  said  that 
he  himself  does  not  hold  with  him  concerning  a  protest  in  the 
absence  of  the  occupant ;  and  above  it  was  said  that  Rabha  him- 
self had  so  decided  ?  After  he  had  heard  it  from  R.  Na'hman, 
he  accepted  it. 

R.  Jose  b.  Hanina  happened  to  meet  the  disciples  of  R. 
Johanan  and  questioned  them  as  to  whether  R.  Johanan  had  said 
before  how  many  people  a  protest  must  be  made.  R.  Hyya  b. 
Abba  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  :  In  the  presence  of  two. 
And  R.  Abuhu  said  in  his  name  :  Three  are  needed. 

Shall  we  assume  that  the  point  of  their  differing  is  the  saying 
of  Rabba  b.  R.  Huna :  "  Everything  which  is  said  in  the  presence 
of  three  persons  cannot  be  considered  slander  "  ?  Now  he  who 
holds  that  two  persons  are  sufficient  does  not  agree  with  Rabba, 
and  he  who  holds  that  three  are  needed  does  so,  because  he  holds 
with  him  ?  Nay,  all  agree  with  Rabba,  and  the  point  of  their 
differing  is — a  protest  not  in  one's  presence :  he  who  says  that 
two  are  sufficient,  because  such  is  not  to  be  considered  (and  there- 
fore he  needs  two,  so  that  they  shall  testify  that  the  occupant 
was  present  at  the  protest).*  And  he  who  holds  that  three  are 
needed  does  so  because  a  protest  not  in  one's  presence  is  consid- 
ered, and  therefore  three  are  needed  in  order  to  make  the  protest 
public.  If  you  wish,  it  may  be  said  that  all  agree  tliut  such  a 
protest  is  to  be  considered,  and  the  point  of  their  differing  is 
that  one  holds  that  for  this  purpose  witnesses  are  needed,  and 
the  other  one  holds  that  it  is  only  necessary  to  make  it  public. 

Giddle  b.  Minjumi  had  to  make  a  protest  against  some  one, 

*  This  is  according  to  Rashbam.  R.  Gershom,  however,  maintains  that  the 
two  who  witnessed  the  protest  would  notify  the  occupant,  as  only  for  this  purpose 
were  they  appointed.  From  the  text,  however,  it  is  impossible  to  decide  which  ot 
the  commentators  is  right,  as  there  are  only  a  few  words.  The  one  who  holds  that 
"  two"  suffice  ii  of  the  opinion  that  "  a  protest  in  absence  "  is  not  considered. 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  103 

and  happened  to  meet  R.  Huna,  Hyya  b.  Rabh,  and  R.  Hilkiah 
b.  Tubi,  who  were  sitting  together,  and  he  made  his  protest  be- 
fore them.  The  next  year  he  came  again  to  protest.  Said  Hyya 
b.  Rabh  to  him  :  The  protest  from  last  year  is  sufificient.  Said 
Resh  Lakish  in  the  name  of  B.  Kapara  :  It  is,  however,  necessary 
for  one  to  repeat  his  protest  after  the  lapse  of  every  three  years. 
R.  Johanan,  however,  doubted  concerning  this  decision,  saying  : 
Does  the  law  of  hazakah  apply  to  a  robber  ?  A  robber !  Is  it, 
then,  certain  that  he  is  a  robber  ?  (Does  he  not  claim  that  he  had 
a  deed,  that  it  was  lost  ?)  He  means  to  say  that,  as  after  the 
first  protest  he  has  done  nothing  to  find  the  deed  or  to  bring  any 
other  evidence,  he  is  so  considered,  and  the  law  of  hazakah 
should  not  apply  to  him.  Said  Rabha  :  The  Halakha  prevails 
that  one  has  to  repeat  his  protest  after  each  three  years. 

Bar  Kapara  taught  :  If  one  has  protested  once,  twice,  and 
three  times,  if  the  second  and  third  times  he  has  claimed  the 
same  that  he  claimed  the  first  time,  the  occupant  has  no  hazakah  ; 
but  if  he  comes  with  other  claims,  the  hazakah  prevails  with  the 
occupant. 

Rabha  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Na'hman  :  When  a  protest  is 
made  before  two  persons,  there  is  no  necessity  to  ask  that  it  be 
written  down.  The  same  is  the  case  with  an  announcement. 
(There  is  a  law  that  if  one  is  compelled  to  sell  his  property,  or 
to  do  any  other  thing  against  his  will,  he  may  announce  it  before 
two  persons,  and  afterwards  he  can  sue  the  buyer.)  For  an 
admission,  however  (that  he  owes  something  to  one),  he  must  ask 
the  two  witnesses  to  write  it  down.  The  ceremony  of  a  suda- 
rium  must  be  done  before  two  persons  without  writing.  The 
approval  of  an  oath,  however,  must  be  done  by  three  persons. 
Said  Rabha  :  I  could  not  understand  why  the  sudarium  should 
be  made  before  two.  If  it  is  considered  an  act  of  Beth  Din,  then 
three  are  needed ;  and  if  it  is  not  considered  such,  why  should  it 
not  be  written  down  ?  After  deliberating,  however,  he  said  : 
This  act  is  not  considered  as  an  act  of  Beth  Din,  and  writing 
down  is  not  needed,  because  this  act  is  as  good  as  if  it  were 
written.  (This  is  the  final  conclusion  of  the  act,  and  cannot 
be  denied.) 

Rabha  and  R.  Joseph  both  said  :  We  do  not  write  down 
an  announcement  unless  in  a  case  where  the  defendant  does  not 
listen  to  the  court.  Both  Abayi  and  Rabha,  however,  said  that 
even  for  such  people  as  we  are,  it  may  be  written  down.  The 
Nahardeans  said  :  An  announcement  in  which  it  is  not  writteo : 


I04  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

"  We  witnesses  testify  that  it  was  known  to  us  that  this  man  was 
compelled,"  etc.,  is  not  to  be  considered.  What  kind  of  an 
announcement  do  they  mean  ?  If  concerning  a  divorce  or  a  gift, 
it  is  sufficient  when  it  is  made  public  only.  And  if  for  a  sale, 
did  not  Rabha  say  elsewhere :  We  do  not  write  announcements 
about  things  sold  ?  It  means  of  a  sale,  and  Rabha  admits  that 
when  one  w^as  compelled  to  sell  against  his  will,  as,  for  instance, 
in  the  case  of  certain  vineyards  (Middle  Gate,  p.  176),  we  do  write 
such  announcements. 

R.  Jehudah  said  :  A  hidden  deed  of  gift  is  not  sufficient  for 
collection.  What  does  this  mean?  Said  R.  Joseph  :  If  one  said 
to  the  witnesses,  "  Go  to  a  place  which  is  invisible,  and  write  him 
a  deed  of  gift."  According  to  others,  R.  Joseph  said :  If  the 
giver  did  not  say  to  the  witness,  "  Go  to  the  market,  and  in  the 
presence  of  the  people  you  shall  write  him  this  deed."  And  the 
difference  between  these  two  sayings  is  when  he  said  to  them : 
"  Go  and  write,"  without  any  addition.  Said  Rabha :  Such  a 
deed  is  sufficient  to  be  an  announcement  in  case  one  has  to  render 
the  same  to  another. 

Said  R.  Papa  :  This  statement  attributed  to  Rabha  was  not 
plainly  said  by  him,  but  it  was  inferred  from  his  decision  of  the 
following  act.  There  was  a  man  who  wanted  to  marry  a  certain 
woman,  and  she  said  to  him  :  "  If  you  will  transfer  all  your  prop- 
erty to  me,  I  will  be  yours,  and  not  otherwise."  And  he  did  so. 
Then  came  his  older  son,  and  said  to  him  :  "  What  then  becomes 
of  me  ?  "  And  the  father  told  two  witnesses  they  should  hide 
themselves  in  a  certain  place  and  write  a  deed  that  the  property 
belonged  to  his  son.  And  when  the  case  came  before  Rabha,  he 
decided  that  none  of  them  had  acquired  title  to  the  property  (the 
son,  because  it  was  written  in  a  hidden  place ;  and  the  woman, 
because  the  first  deed  was  an  announcement  against  the  latter 
deed).  This,  however,  was  only  a  supposition  by  those  who  heard 
this  decision.  In  reality,  however,  Rabha  did  so  because  any  one 
could  see  that  the  deed  to  the  woman  was  wTitten  only  under 
compulsion.  But  in  the  above  case  of  a  hidden  deed,  it  could 
not  serve  as  an  announcement,  because  the  latter  was  made  in 
public.  And  it  is  to  be  assumed  that  he  did  so  because  such  was 
his  will,  and  the  former  was  done  unwillingly ;  and  therefore  he 
told  the  witnesses  to  write  it  in  a  secret  place. 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question :  How  is  it  when  he 
told  them  to  write  a  deed  of  gift  without  any  explanation  ?  (The 
question  is  concerning  the  two  sayings  of   R.  Joseph  mentioned 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  105 

above.)  According  to  Rabhina,  it  is  considered  proper ;  and 
according  to  R.  Ashi,  it  is  not  proper  (unless  he  told  them  to 
make  this  publicly).     And  so  the  Halakha  prevails. 

MISHNA  ///.  :  A  hazakah  to  which  there  is  no  claim  is  not 
to  be  considered.  How  so  ?  "  What  are  you  doing  on  my  prop- 
perty  ? "  And  if  he  answered  :  "  Because  there  was  no  claim 
against  it,"  it  is  not  to  be  considered.  But  if  he  says :  Because 
you  have  sold  it ;  or,  You  had  presented  it  to  me  ;  or.  Because 
your  father  did  so,  this  is  to  be  considered.  A  property,  how- 
ever, which  one  possesses  by  inheritance  does  not  need  any  ex- 
planation (which  means  that  the  claim,  "  I  have  inherited,"  is 
sufificient). 

GEMARA  :  Is  not  the  first  statement  in  the  Mishna  self-evi- 
dent ?  Lest  one  say  :  As  the  man  has  occupied  the  estate,  it 
must  be  supposed  that  he  has  bought  it,  but  has  lost  the  deed ; 
and  the  reason  why  he  does  not  claim  "  bought,"  is  because  he 
feared  that  the  plaintiff  would  ask  to  see  the  deed,  therefore  it  is 
for  the  court  to  ask  him  :  "  Perhaps  you  had  a  deed,  which  was 
lost?"  as  it  is  written  [Prov.  xxxi.  8]  :  "  Open  thy  mouth  for  the 
dumb,"  etc.;  it  comes  to  teach  us  that  it  is  not  so. 

It  happened  that  an  overflow  took  away  the  fence  of  R. 
Anan's  field,  and  he  built  a  new  one  in  the  space  belonging  to  his 
neighbor.  And  his  neighbor  complained  before  R.  Na'hman, 
who  decided  that  he  must  remove  it.  Said  R.  Anan  to  him  : 
But  I  have  made  a  hazakah  on  it.  And  he  answered  :  You 
desire  that  I  shall  decide  in  accordance  with  R.  Jehudah  and  R. 
Ishmael,  who  said  that  if  it  was  done  in  the  presence  of  the  plain- 
tiff, it  is  immediately  considered  a  hazakah.  The  Halakha  does 
not  prevail  according  to  them.  Said  R.  Anan  :  But  this  man  has 
relinquished  his  right  to  me,  as  he  himself  assisted  me  in  making 
the  fence.  And  he  answered  :  Such  a  relinquishment  was  only 
an  error,  and  cannot  be  considered ;  as  you  yourself,  if  you  were 
aware  that  you  were  building  the  fence  on  a  space  which  did  not 
belong  to  you,  would  not  do  it.  And  so  was  it  with  your  neigh- 
bor :  he,  also,  was  not  aware  that  the  space  belonged  to  him. 

The  same  happened  to  R.  Kahana,  and  his  neighbor  came  to 
complain  before  R.  Jehudah,  bringing  two  witnesses.  One  testi- 
fied that  R.  Kahana  had  occupied  two  rows  of  his  neighbor's 
estate,  and  the  other  testified  three.  And  R.  Jehudah  decided 
he  should  pay  him  for  two  of  the  three  rows.  Said  R.  Kahana  to 
him  :  Is  not  your  decision  in  accordance  with  R.  Simeon  b. 
Elazar,  who  said  elsewhere  that  the  school  of  Hillel  agrees  that 


io6  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

the  smaller  amount  is  included  in  the  larger  one  {i.e.,  as  there  is 
no  contradiction  to  the  two  rows,  it  is  considered  as  two  witnesses 
for  two  rows  which  must  be  paid  for)?  But  I  can  bring  you  a 
letter  from  Palestine  that  the  Halakha  does  not  prevail  with  R. 
Simeon  b.  Elazar.  And  he  answered  :  If  you  will  bring  me  this 
letter,  we  shall  see. 

It  happened  in  the  city  of  Kashta  that  one  had  lived  in  an 
attic  four  years,  and  then  the  owner  of  the  house  came  to  ask 
him  what  he  was  doing  in  the  house.  To  which  he  answered :  I 
bought  it  from  so  and  so,  who  bought  it  from  you.  And  the 
case  came  before  R.  Hyya,  who  said  to  the  defendant  :  If  you 
will  bring  witnesses  that  the  man  from  whom  you  bought  it  lived 
in  this  attic  even  one  day,  I  will  leave  the  attic  in  your  posses- 
sion, but  not  otherwise.  Said  Rabh  :  I  used  to  sit  then  before 
my  uncle,  and  I  said  to  him  :  Can  it  not  happen  that  one  should 
sell  out  his  property  in  the  night-time,  and  leave  it  immediately  ? 
And  I  understood  from  my  uncle's  appearance  that  if  the  de- 
fendant should  claim :  "  I  was  present  when  my  seller  bought  it 
from  you,"  he  would  trust  him,  because,  if  he  wished  to  tell  a  lie, 
he  could  claim  :  I  bought  it  from  you  directly.  Said  Rabha : 
It  seems  to  me  that  R.  Hyya  was  correct  in  his  decision,  as  our 
Mishna  states  that  if  the  defendant  claimed  inheritance,  no  other 
explanation  is  needed,  which  means  an  explanation  is  not  needed, 
but  nevertheless  evidence  that  he  inherited  it  is  needed.  (Said 
the  Gemara  :)  This  support  does  not  hold  good,  as  it  may  be 
said  that  the  expression,  "  no  explanation  is  needed,"  means  also 
no  evidence.  Furthermore,  the  claim  "  bought  "  should  have 
more  chance  than  an  heir ;  for  if  it  were  not  known  to  him  that 
the  seller  had  a  right  to  sell  it,  he  would  not  throw  away  his 
money. 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question  :  If  the  seller  was  seen 
on  this  property,  not  as  a  tenant,  but  as  the  owner,  to  measure 
it,  would  this  be  sufficient,  according  to  R.  Hyya?  Said  Abayi : 
"Aye."  Rabha,  however,  maintains  that  it  may  happen  that 
one  shall  measure  his  property  without  any  intention  of  selling. 
If  there  were  three  buyers  to  one  estate  (/>.,  A  sold  it  to  B,  who 
occupied  it  a  year,  and  thereafter  sold  it  to  C,  who  also  after  a 
year's  occupancy  sold  it  to  D,  with  a  bill  of  sale  :  then  came  A 
and  claimed  that  the  estate  was  his — he  never  sold  it — and  B 
does  not  possess  any  bill  of  sale,  shall  we  say  that,  as  between  B, 
C,  and  D  three  years  of  hazakah  have  elapsed,  and  as  A  has  not 
protested,  D  is  entitled  to  it  ?  or,  as  each  of  them  has  not  occu- 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  107 

pied  it  the  years  of  hazakah,  A's  claim  is  to  be  considered),  the 
years  of  occupancy  count.  Said  Rabh  :  This  is  only  when  both 
C  and  D  possessed  their  deeds,  but  not  otherwise. 

Shall  we  assume  that  Rabh  holds  that  only  a  deed  is  consid- 
ered to  be  known  by  the  people,  but  not  witnesses  ;  and  the 
reason  why  he  said  elsewhere  that  he  who  sells  his  field  in  the 
presence  of  witnesses,  and  thereafter  it  was  taken  away  from  the 
buyer,  the  buyer  has  a  right  to  collect  his  money  from  encum- 
bered estates,  is  because  the  people  who  bought  their  estates 
afterwards  from  the  seller  had  to  investigate  whether  he  had  not 
sold  his  estates  previously  with  security,  but  not  because  wit- 
nesses are  considered  known  to  the  people  ?  But  how  could 
Rabh  say  so  ?  Is  there  not  a  Mishna  farther  on  which  states 
that  if  by  witnesses  only,  he  may  collect  from  unencumbered 
estates  only  ?  And  lest  one  say  Rabh  is  a  Tana  who  has  a  right 
to  differ  with  a  Mishna,  did  not  Rabh  and  Samuel  both  declare 
that  a  loan  which  was  made  orally  is  not  collectible  either  from 
heirs  or  from  buyers  ?  You  contradict  a  case  of  a  loan  with  a 
case  of  selling.  They  are  entirely  different,  as  he  who  makes  a 
loan  does  it  privately,  as  he  would  not  like  people  should  know 
he  needed  money,  and  the  value  of  his  estate  would  decrease. 
But  he  who  sells  an  estate  does  it  publicly,  as  he  is  searching  for 
a  buyer  who  will  give  him  a  better  price. 

The  rabbis  taught :  If  the  father  has  consumed  one  year  and 
his  son  two,  or  vice  versa,  or  each  of  them  one  year,  and  the 
buyer  from  them  one  year,  it  is  considered  a  hazakah.  Shall  we 
assume  that  it  is  a  hazakah  because  a  sale  is  considered  known 
to  the  people,  and  therefore  the  owner  ought  to  protest  ?  Does 
not  the  following  contradict :  If  one  has  occupied  or  consumed 
in  the  face  of  the  father  one  year,  and  in  the  face  of  his  son  two, 
or  vice  versa,  or  in  the  face  of  each  one  year,  and  in  the  face  of 
the  buyer  who  bought  it  from  the  son  one  year,  it  is  considered 
a  hazakah  for  the  occupant  ?  Now,  if  you  would  bear  in  mind 
that  selling  and  buying  are  considered  known  to  the  people,  why 
is  the  selling  itself  not  considered  the  greatest  protest?  Said 
R.  Papa :  This  may  not  contradict,  as  the  cited  Boraitha  may 
treat  of  one  who  sold  the  field  among  his  other  fields.  (And  so 
the  sale  of  this  particular  field  was  probably  not  known  to  the 
people,  and  therefore  it  cannot  be  considered  a  protest.) 

MISHNA  IV. :  The  law  of  hazakah  does  not  apply  to  the 
following  :  specialists,  farmers,  partners,  gardeners,  and  guardians. 
There  is  also  no  hazakah  to  a  husband  on  the  estate  of  his  wife. 


io8  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

and  vice  versa;  and  no  hazakah  to  a  father  on  the  estate  of  his 
son,  and  vice  versa.  All  this  is  said  concerning  hazakah,  but  con- 
cerning a  gift  or  an  inheritance  of  brothers,  or  one  who  takes 
possession  of  the  estate  of  an  heirless  proselyte,  if  he  has  done 
any  work  whatever  {e.g.,  if  he  has  locked  it,  or  made  any  parti- 
tion, or  torn  down  the  old  one),  it  is  considered  a  hazakah. 

GEMARA  :  Both  the  father  of  Samuel  and  Levi  taught :  There 
is  no  hazakah  to  a  partner,  and  so  much  the  less  to  a  speciahst. 
Samuel,  however,  taught :  There  is  no  hazakah  to  a  specialist, 
but  to  a  partner  there  is.  And  Samuel  is  in  accordance  with  his 
theory  elsewhere,  that  concerning  partners  the  law  of  hazakah 
applies.  They  also  may  be  witnesses  for  each  other,  and  they 
are  also  considered  bailees  for  hire  to  each  other.  R.  Abba 
raised  the  following  contradiction  to  R.  Jehudah  :  "  At  the 
cave  of  R.  Zakkai."  How  can  you  say  that  Samuel  holds  that 
hazakah  applies  to  partners  ?  Did  not  he  say  that  when  one 
works  on  his  partner's  estate,  it  is  to  be  considered  as  if  he  had 
done  this  with  the  permission  of  his  partner.  Is  this  not  to  be 
understood  to  mean  that  a  partner  has  no  right  of  hazakah  ?  This 
presents  no  difficulty.  One  of  Samuel's  decisions  speaks  of  when 
the  partner  has  consumed  the  products  of  the  whole  estate  which 
belongs  to  both,  and  the  other  decision  treats  of  when  he  took 
possession  of  a  half  share,  claiming  that  they  had  divided  their 
estates  long  before  and  that  he  had  made  a  hazakah  on  the  part 
he  now  holds.  To  which  his  partner  objects,  saying:  Our  stipu- 
lation was  such  that  you  should  keep  it  three  years,  and  then  I 
should  keep  it  three  years. 

In  explaining  this,  two  parties  differ.  One  maintains  that 
Samuel's  decision  that  a  partner  has  a  right  of  hazakah  is  in  case 
he  has  consumed  all  the  products  of  the  estate  belonging  to  both. 
For  a  partner  usually  consumes  the  products  of  half  of  the  estate, 
taking  them  from  one  half  one  year  and  from  the  other  half  the 
following,  in  order  to  equalize  matters.  And  as  we  see  that  one 
has  taken  possession  of  the  entire  estate  for  three  years  in  suc- 
cession, it  is  to  be  supposed  that  he  bought  the  same.  And  the 
other  decision  of  Samuel  speaks  of  when  they  do  as  is  customary, 
consuming  the  products  of  the  same  half  three  years  in  succes- 
sion :  no  hazakah  applies,  because  his  partner  may  claim  that 
such  was  the  stipulation,  as  stated  above. 

And  the  other  maintains  to  the  contrary.  If  he  consumes 
the  whole,  there  is  no  hazakah,  because  it  may  be  that  that  was 
their  arrangement ;  namely,  that  one  should  use  the  products  the 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST    GATE).  109 

first  three  years  and  his  partner  the  three  years  succeeding.  But 
if  one  utilizes  exactly  half  for  three  years  in  succession,  it  may  be 
said  that  he  bought  it,  and  therefore  hazakah  applies.  Rabhina, 
however,  says  that  both  of  Samuel's  decisions  may  apply  to  the 
case  that  one  has  consumed  the  whole  estate ;  but  the  decision 
that  he  has  a  hazakah  speaks  of  a  f^eld  which  contains  the  pre- 
scribed quantity  for  division.  Consequently,  if  one  consumes  the 
whole  field  (without  any  protest  from  his  partner),  it  is  to  be  sup- 
posed  that  he  bought  it.  And  the  decision  that  there  is  no 
hazakah  speaks  of  a  field  which  has  not  the  prescribed  quantity. 
And  it  is  to  be  supposed  that  their  arrangement  was  that  each 
should  use  it  for  three  years,  as  said  above. 

"  The  text  says  :  "  Samuel  holds  that  when  one  works  on  his 
partner's  estate,"  etc.  What  did  Samuel  mean  to  teach,  that  in 
partnership  the  law  of  hazakah  does  not  apply  ?  Let  him  then 
say  so  plainly.  Said  R.  Na'hman  in  the  name  of  Rabba  b. 
Abuhu  :  He  means  to  say  that  when  one  takes  his  partner's 
field,  which  is  fit  for  sowing  only,  and  plants  trees  in  it,  he  is  not 
liable  for  damages,  as  it  is  considered  to  be  done  with  his  part- 
ner's permission,  and,  moreover,  his  partner  can  claim  half  of  any 
profits  which  may  accrue  after  the  expense  of  planting  has  been 
deducted.  Farther  on  Samuel  says  :  "  They  may  bear  witness  for 
each  other,"  etc.  Why  ?  Are  they  not  interested  in  each  other's 
affairs?  He  means  to  say,  in  case  one  of  them  gave  a  deed  to 
the  other,  saying  he  had  nothing  further  to  do  with  the  field. 
But  even  then,  what  is  it  ?  Have  we  not  learned  in  the  following 
Boraitha  :  If  one  says  to  his  partner :  "  I  have  no  claim  on  this 
field,"  "  I  have  nothing  to  do  with  it,"  or,  "  I  keep  my  hands  off 
it,"  he  says  nothing  {i.e.,  unless  he  distinctly  says,  "  It  is  yours, 
and  I  shall  have  nothing  further  to  do  with  it,"  it  is  not  to  be 
considered,  because  it  may  be  that  he  said  it  in  a  manner  indicat- 
ing that  he  wished  he  would  have  nothing  to  do  with  it,  etc.)  ?  It 
means  that  this  was  done  with  the  ceremony  of  a  sudarium  (and 
then  certainly  he  has  nothing  to  do  with  it).  But,  after  all,  he  is 
still  interested  in  this  case,  for  if  the  plaintiff  should  win  the 
case,  and  the  estate  were  taken  away  from  the  defendant,  it 
might  be  appraised  insufficient  to  cover  the  debt  made  while  he 
was  still  a  partner,  and  then  it  would  devolve  upon  him.  And  he 
may  also  be  interested  in  seeing  that  this  estate  shall  remain  with 
his  partner,  as  it  may  happen  afterwards  that  some  one  should 
claim  that  his  partner  had  borrowed  some  money  while  they  were 
still  partners,  and  when  his  partner  should  have  no  estate,  the 


no  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALxMUD. 

debt  be  turned  over  to  him  ?  This  means  that  when  he  transferred 
his  property  to  him  he  at  the  same  time  in  writing  took  upon 
himself  the  responsibihty.  The  responsibihty  of  what  ?  If  the 
responsibility  of  this  estate,  in  case  it  were  taken  away  by  some 
one,  should  devolve  on  him,  then  he  is  certainly  interested  in 
this  case  ;  and  if  it  means  he  takes  the  responsibility  of  claims 
which  may  be  upon  the  estate  for  his  own  debts,  then  he  has 
nothing  to  do  with  any  other  claims  :  he  is  disinterested  in  so  far 
as  he  has  nothing  to  do  with  the  estate  itself — only  the  making 
good  of  his  own  debts.  But  has  he  a  right  to  cut  himself  off  from 
all  other  liabilities  ?  Have  we  not  learned  in  a  Boraitha  that  if 
Holy  Scrolls  were  stolen  from  a  city  the  thieves  must  not  be  tried 
by  the  judges  of  that  city,  and  also  no  witnesses  from  that  city 
should  be  brought  as  evidence  ? 

Now,  if  one  should  have  a  right  to  say :  "  I  have  cut  myself 
off  from  this  estate  entirely,"  it  would  be  possible,  in  the  above 
case,  for  two  judges  to  say,  "  We  have  relinquished  our  shares  in 
the  Holy  Scrolls,"  and  witnesses  the  same  way,  and  then  the 
judges  could  decide  the  case  and  the  evidence  of  the  witnesses  be 
used.  With  Holy  Scrolls  it  is  different,  as  they  are  made  for  read- 
ing, and  one  cannot  help  hearing  them.  Come  and  hear  !  If  one 
say  :  Give  a  manna  to  the  poor  of  that  city — if  there  is  a  trial  about 
this,  the  case- must  not  come  before  the  judges  of  that  city,  and 
no  evidence  of  witnesses  of  the  same  city  should  be  admitted. 
Now,  how  can  you  maintain,  because  the  poor  of  the  city  take 
the  charity,  that  the  judges  of  the  city  should  not  be  eligible  to 
decide  the  case?  You  must  say,  then,  that  the  judges  must  not 
be  of  the  poor  who  take  charity,  nor  witnesses  who  have  benefit 
therefrom.  And  why  let  the  judges  or  the  witnesses  relinquish 
their  share  in  this  charity  and  be  used  ?  The  Boraitha  speaks 
also  when  the  manna  in  question  was  given  for  Holy  Scrolls,  and 
the  expression  "  poor "  is  because  concerning  the  Holy  Scrolls 
all  are  considered  poor ;  and  if  you  wish,  it  may  be  said,  the  ex- 
pression "  poor  "  is  to  be  taken  literally,  and  it  speaks  of  the  poor 
whom  the  judges  or  witnesses  are  obliged  to  assist.  And  there- 
fore the  trial  could  not  come  before  them,  because  they  are  in- 
terested in  it  {i.e.,  if  the  poor  should  win  the  case,  their  share  of 
assistance  would  be  less  than  before).  And  even  if  the  judges  or 
witnesses  were  taxed  to  assist  the  poor  of  that  city  with  a  certain 
sum  per  annum,  they  are  still  considered  interested  in  that  case, 
for  they  are  pleased  at  the  poor  receiving  more  support. 

Samuel  says  further :  "  They  are  also  considered  bailees  for 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  in 

hire,"  etc.  Why  so  ?  Is  this  not  a  guard  in  the  presence  of  its 
owner,  and  it  is  said  above  that  in  such  a  case  he  is  not  responsible  ? 
Said  R.  Papa :  He  means  to  say,  if  one  said  to  his  partner : 
Guard  for  me  to-day  and  I  will  guard  for  you  to-morrow. 

The  rabbis  taught :  If  one  sells  another  a  house  or  a  field,  he  is 
not  allowed  to  be  a  witness,  because  he  is  always  responsible  for 
it,  if  there  should  be  a  claim  against  it.  But  if  he  has  sold  him  a 
cow  or  a  garment,  he  may  be  a  witness,  because  he  has  nothing 
more  to  do  with  them.  What  is  the  difference  between  the 
former  and  the  latter  facts  ?  Is  the  seller  not  responsible  in  case 
it  should  be  found  that  the  cow  or  garment  in  question  was  stolen 
by  him  ?  Said  R.  Shesheth  :  The  first  part  speaks  of  the  follow- 
ing case :  If  A  has  robbed  B  of  a  field  and  has  sold  it  to  C,  then 
D  comes  with  a  claim,  B  then  has  no  right  to  be  a  witness  for  C, 
because  he  is  interested  in  having  it  returned  to  A,  so  that  he 
can  establish  his  claim.  But  if  B  should  be  a  witness  that  C  is 
right,  how  can  he  claim  afterwards  that  the  field  is  his  ?  He  can 
only  testify  that  D's  claim  is  wrong.  But  could  not  B  exercise 
his  right,  even  if  it  were  D's?  He  may  think  that  C,  who  is  not 
so  mighty,  might  settle  with  him,  while  with  D  it  would  not 
be  so  easy.  And  if  you  wish,  it  may  be  said  that  it  speaks  of  a 
case  as  follows  :  B  has  witnesses  that  this  property  belongs  to 
him,  and  D  has  witnesses  who  contradict  B's  witnesses.  And  in 
such  a  case,  usually  the  judges  decide  that  the  property  shall  re- 
main with  its  present  owner.  And  therefore  B  is  interested  in  it, 
and  must  not  be  trusted  as  a  witness.  But  why  was  it  necessary 
for  R.  Shesheth  to  illustrate  this  Boraitha  in  case  the  robber  had 
sold  the  field  to  another?  Could  he  not  illustrate  this  by  saying 
that  C  had  announced  his  claim  while  the  field  was  still  in  the 
hands  of  the  robber  A — then  B  cannot  be  a  witness?  Because  it 
has  to  teach  in  the  last  part  that  if  he  has  sold  movable  property 
to  some  one,  which  means  the  one  who  robbed  the  property  in 
question  and  sold  it,  the  one  who  has  been  robbed  may  be  a  wit- 
ness, and  this  can  only  hold  good  in  case  of  movable  property 
which  was  passing  into  another's  hands  and  of  the  renouncing  of 
the  hope  to  regain  it  by  the  owner.  As  the  law  dictates  that 
these  two  things  give  title  to  the  possessor,  consequently  the 
robbed  one,  who  has  nothing  more  to  do  with  these  articles,  may 
be  a  witness.  But  if  the  article  were  still  in  the  hand  of  the 
robber,  the  robbed  one  would  not  renounce  his  hope  of  regaining 
it,  and  it  would  still  be  considered  his  property,  and  consequently 
he  cannot  be  a  witness.     Therefore  he  illustrated  the  first  part 


112  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

also  in  the  same  manner.  But,  after  all,  although  the  robbed  one 
renounced  his  hope  of  regaining  the  article,  did  he  do  the  same 
about  the  value  of  it?  He  speaks  when  the  robber  no  longer 
exists — when  he  has  no  further  hope  even  for  the  value,  as  we 
have  learned  in  a  Mishna  that  if  one  robbed  movable  property 
and  bequeathed  it  to  his  children,  they  are  free  from  paying  for  it. 
But  why  does  not  R.  Shesheth  explain  this  Boraitha  as  speaking 
of  an  heir  (it  means  if  the  robber  dies  and  leaves  it  for  his  heirs)? 
This  objection  would  not  hold  good,  in  accordance  with  him  who 
holds  that  the  control  of  an  heir  is  not  equal  to  the  control  of  a 
buyer.  But  to  him  who  holds  that  they  are  equal,  what  can  be 
said  ?  Furthermore,  there  was  a  difficulty  to  Abayi  :  Why  does 
the  Boraitha  use  the  expressions  "  responsible "  and  "  not  re- 
sponsible " — as,  according  to  R.  Shesheth's  explanation,  it  ought 
to  be  said,  because  this  is  "  returning "  and  "  not  returning"? 
Therefore  the  Boraitha  must  be  explained  in  accordance  with 
Rabbin  b.  Samuel,  who  said  in  the  name  of  Mar  Samuel  as  fol- 
lows:  If  one  sold  a  field  to  his  neighbor  without  security,  he  has 
no  right  to  qualify  as  a  witness  concerning  it,  because  in  case  of 
a  creditor  he  can  show  this  as  a  source  of  collection.  But  this 
can  only  be  in  case  of  a  house  or  other  real  estate,  and  not  of 
movable  property ;  and  not  only  when  it  was  sold  without  any 
stipulation  that  collection  is  not  to  be  made  on  movable  property 
for  the  claim  of  a  creditor,  but  even  in  case  it  was  written,  "  You 
shall  collect  your  money  from  the  garment  which  is  on  my  shoul- 
ders," he  can  do  it  only  when  the  movable  property  is  still  in  his 
possession,  but  not  otherwise.  As  even  then  the  property  in 
question  has  been  made  a  hypothec,  he  can  only  collect  when  it 
is  yet  under  the  borrower's  control ;  but  when  it  is  not  under  his 
control,  he  cannot.  As  Rabha  said  (First  Gate,  p.  19) :  If  one 
has  made  his  slave  a  hypothec,  and  thereafter  he  sold  it,  a  collec- 
tion can  be  made  ;  but  if  the  hypothec  was  an  ox  or  an  ass,  and  he 
has  sold  it,  the  creditor  cannot  collect.  Why  so  ?  Because  real 
estate,  when  it  is  sold,  people  talk  about  it,  which  is  not  the  case 
with  movable  property.  But  let  it  be  feared  that  the  owner  of 
the  movable  property  has  mortgaged  it  together  with  the  real 
estate.  As  Rabba  said  elsewhere :  Such  an  agreement  holds 
good  to  collect  also  from  the  personal  property.  And  R.  Hisda 
added  to  it  that  this  law  holds  good  only  when  the  borrower 
mentioned  in  his  agreement  that  this  should  not  be  considered 
an  asmachtah,  or  a  copied  agreement  ?  It  speaks  of  a  case  in 
which  the  movable  property  was  bought  and  sold  immediately. 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  113 

Let  it  still,  however,  be  feared  that  he  wrote  in  the  mortgage  of 
the  real  estate  :  "All  the  personal  property  which  I  possess  and 
which  I  shall  possess  hereafter."  Shall  we  assume  that  because 
such  is  not  feared,  a  similar  agreement  is  not  to  be  considered  ? 
And  if  in  spite  of  such  agreement  he  has  sold  out  or  bequeathed 
his  movable  property,  the  sale  is  valid  ?  Nay ;  it  may  be  said 
that  the  above  case  treats  of  when  there  are  witnesses  who  tes- 
tify that  this  man  never  possessed  any  real  estate.  But  did  not 
R,  Papa  say  that  although  the  rabbis  had  enacted  that  if  one  sold 
out  real  estate  without  security,  and  a  creditor  took  it  away  from 
the  buyer,  the  latter  could  not  claim  the  money  from  the  seller  ? 
If,  however,  the  investigation  shows  that  the  seller  has  never 
possessed  this  estate,  he  must  pay  ? 

It  speaks  that  the  buyer  was  aware  that  the  ass  in  ques- 
tion was  born  from  his  cattle.  R.  Zebid,  however,  maintained 
that  if  sold  without  security,  even  if  it  was  found  afterwards  that 
he  never  possessed  it,  the  buyer  could  claim  his  money,  because 
the  seller  might  claim  that  on  this  account  it  was  sold  without 
security. 

It  is  said  above,  in  the  name  of  Samuel,  that  he  who  has  sold 
a  field  without  security  cannot  be  a  witness  concerning  this  estate, 
as  he  is  interested  in  it ;  in  case  his  creditor  came,  he  can  show 
him  this  field  for  collection.  Let  us  see  how  the  case  was.  Does 
the  seller  possess  other  real  estate  ?  Then  certainly  the  creditor 
will  make  his  claim  against  that  estate  first,  as  there  is  a  rule  that 
no  collection  should  be  made  from  encumbered  estate  when  there 
are  unencumbered  estates  of  the  defendant.  And  if  he  does  not 
possess  any  others,  then  what  can  the  creditor  take  from  him, 
even  if  it  remains  with  the  buyer?  It  may  be  said  that  he  does 
not  possess  other  estates.  Nevertheless,  he  may  say  :  "  I  do  not 
want  to  be  wicked,"  that  the  verse  in  Ps.  xxxvii.  21,  "  The  wicked 
borrowed  and  repayeth  not,"  should  apply  to  me.  But  would 
not  the  same  verse  apply  to  him  concerning  the  buyer?  Nay; 
as  he  may  say  :  I  plainly  told  him  that  I  would  not  secure  this 
field  to  him.  Consequently  he  was  willing  to  buy  it,  even  though 
it  might  be  taken  away  from  him  afterwards. 

Rabha,  according  to  others  R.  Papa,  announced :  It  shall  be 
known  to  them  who  are  ascending  to  Palestine  or  descending  to 
Babylon,  that  if  one  Israelite  sold  to  another  an  ass,  and  a  Gen- 
tile came  and  took  it  away,  claiming  that  it  was  stolen  from  him, 
it  is  but  right  that  the  seller  shall  settle  with  the  buyer,  so  that 
he  shall  not  suffer  the  whole  damage.  This,  however,  is  said 
8 


114  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

when  the  buyer  was  not  aware  that  this  ass  was  born  among  his 
animals.  But  if  the  buyer  was  aware  of  it,  he  cannot  expect  any 
settlement  (as  such  was  his  fate).  And  even  in  case  he  was  not 
aware,  he  may  do  so  when  the  Gentile  takes  away  the  ass  only, 
but  when  he  takes  away  the  saddle  and  also  the  man,  since  he 
takes  not  only  what  belongs  to  him,  but  all  that  the  buyer  pos- 
sessed, then  again  it  is  his  fate. 

"  Specialists,''  etc.  Said  Rabba :  "  This  is  said  when  the  owner 
has  transferred  to  the  specialist  in  the  presence  of  witnesses ;  but 
otherwise,  because  he  may  claim  that  he  never  took  it  from  him, 
he  is  to  be  trusted  if  he  says  that  he  bought  it  from  him.  Said 
Abayi  to  him :  According  to  your  theory,  even  if  it  was  in  the 
presence  of  witnesses,  he  should  also  be  trusted,  because  he  could 
claim  that  he  has  returned  it  already.  Answered  Rabba:  Do  you 
mean  to  say  that  if  one  deposits  an  article  with  his  neighbor  in 
the  presence  of  witnesses  the  depositary  should  return  it  to  him 
without  witnesses,  and  that  it  should  not  be  born  in  mind  (that 
he  used  witnesses  when  presenting)  ?  The  latter  must  do  the 
same  when  returning ;  for,  if  not,  he  will  not  be  trusted  when 
he  claims  to  have  returned  it.  Abayi  objected  from  the  following : 
If  one  has  seen  his  slave  learning  a  trade  at  a  specialist's,  or  his 
garment  at  a  cleaner's,  and  to  the  question,  "  What  does  it  con- 
cern you  ? "  he  answers,  "  You  sold  it,  or  made  it  a  present  to 
me,"  he  said  nothing.  But  if  he  claims :  "  I  was  present  when 
you  told  so  and  so  to  sell  it,  or  give  it  for  a  present,"  he  may  be 
trusted.  And  to  the  explanation  of  the  difference  in  the  law 
between  the  first  part  and  the  latter,  said  Rabba :  The  latter  part 
means  to  say :  If  the  article  in  question  came  to  the  present  pos- 
sessor from  a  third  hand,  and  the  latter  said  to  the  plaintiff :  In 
my  presence  you  told  so  and  so  that  he  might  sell  it,  or  give  it 
as  a  present.  And  the  reason  is  because,  if  he  wished  to  tell  a 
lie,  he  could  claim  :  I  myself  bought  it  from  you.  Now  we  see 
that  the  first  part  states,  "  If  one  has  seen."  And  what  does  it 
mean?  If  there  were  witnesses,  why  the  expression  "seen"? 
He  should  bring  his  witnesses  and  take  it  away.  We  must  say, 
then,  that  there  were  no  witnesses ;  yet,  as  soon  as  he  has  seen 
it,  he  may  take  it  away  (hence  this  contradicts  your  statement 
that  if  there  were  no  witnesses  he  is  to  be  trusted,  claiming,  "  I 
bought  it  from  you  ").  Says  Rabba :  Nay  ;  it  means  that  there 
were  witnesses  (when  he  presented  it  to  him),  and  even  then  only 
when  he  saw  it  in  his  possession.  (Said  Abayi :)  But  did  you  not 
declare  that   he  who  has  deposited   an  article  in   the  presence  of 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  115 

witnesses,  the  returning  must  also  be  done  in  the  presence  of  the 
same  ?  And  he  answered  :  I  retract  that  statement.  Rabha, 
however,  objected  to  Abayi,  and  brought  the  following  as  a  sup- 
port to  Rabba :  If  one  has  given  his  garment  to  a  specialist,  the 
latter  claiming,  "  The  stipulation  was  that  you  should  give  me 
two  zuz,"  and  the  owner  claims  the  stipulation  was  for  one  zuz, 
so  long  as  the  article  is  in  the  hand  of  the  specialist,  it  is  for  the 
owner  to  bring  evidence.  If,  however,  the  specialist  has  already 
returned  it  to  the  owner,  if  he  announced  his  claim  in  time  {i.e., 
before  sunset,  at  which  time  a  laborer  has  to  get  his  payment), 
then  he  takes  an  oath  and  gets  the  full  payment.  But  if  it 
was  after  that  time,  he  is  the  plaintiff,  and  it  is  for  him  to  bring 
witnesses.  Now  let  us  see  how  was  the  case.  If  there  were 
witnesses,  then  it  must  be  done  as  the  witnesses  testify.  It  must 
be  said,  therefore,  that  there  are  no  witnesses,  nevertheless  the 
specialist  is  trusted.  Is  this  not  because  he  could  claim,  "  I 
bought  it,"  so  that  he  would  be  trusted  ?  So  is  it  when  he  claims 
his  payment  ?  Nay  ;  it  treats  of  when  there  were  no  witnesses, 
and  also  when  the  owner  of  the  article  did  not  see  it  in  the  hands 
of  the  specialist  (so  that  the  specialist  could  claim  that  he  had 
returned  it). 

R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak  objected  from  our  Mishna,  which  states 
that  a  specialist  has  no  hazakah,  from  which  it  is  to  be  inferred 
that  only  a  specialist  has  not,  but  a  common  man  has.  And  this 
is  certainly  the  case  if  there  were  no  witnesses  ;  for  if  there  were, 
why  should  he  ?  Hence  we  see  that  a  specialist  has  no  hazakah 
£ven  when  there  were  witnesses.  And  this  contradicts  Rabba's 
nbove  statement,  and  this  objection  remains. 

The  rabbis  taught :  If  one  has  exchanged  his  utensils  for  an- 
other's in  the  house  of  a  speciaHst,  he  may  use  them  until  the 
owner  shall  come  and  recognize  his.  If  the  same  was  done  at  the 
house  of  a  mourner  or  at  a  house  of  a  wedding,  he  must  not  use 
them  before  they  shall  be  recognized.  And  what  is  the  reason 
for  the  difference  in  the  two  cases  ?  Said  Rabh  :  I  used  to  sit 
before  my  uncle,  and  he  explained  it  to  me  that  it  might  happen 
that  the  owner  of  an  article  might  say  to  a  specialist,  "  Sell  this 
article  for  me  "  (hence  the  article  might  be  given  to  him,  not  by 
an  error  but  intentionally  by  the  specialist,  who  has  a  right  to  sell 
it),  which  cannot  be  the  case  in  the  house  of  a  mourner  or  of  a 
wedding.  Said  R.  Hyya  b.  R.  Na'hman  :  Then  it  may  be  used 
only  when  the  specialist  himself  has  exchanged  it ;  but  if  this  was 
presented  to  him  by  his  wife  or  children,  he  must  not  use  it. 


ii6  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

And  even  when  it  was  presented  by  the  specialist  himself,  the 
law  holds  good  if  he  said  to  him  :  "  Here  is  this  article  ";  but  if 
he  said  to  him:  "  Here  is yotir  article,"  then  he  must  not  use  it, 
as  we  see  that  the  specialist  has  erred  in  giving  it  to  him.  Said 
Abayi  to  Rabha :  Come  and  I  will  tell  you  what  the  swindlers  of 
Pumbeditha  are  doing.  If  one  claims  :  "  Give  me  up  my  mantle 
which  I  have  given  to  you  for  repairing,"  the  other  answers  that 
this  never  occurred.  And  if  he  claims  :  "  I  have  witnesses  who 
saw  it  at  your  place,"  he  claims  it  was  another's.  "  But  bring  it 
forth  and  let  us  see  it."  He  answers  :  "  No,  indeed  !  I  have  no 
right  to  show  you  the  goods  of  others."  Answered  Rabha  :  Al- 
though he  is  a  swindler,  nevertheless  he  does  it  in  accordance 
with  the  law,  as  the  Boraitha  states  plainly,  when  he  sees  it  with 
his  eyes.  Said  R.  Ashi :  If  the  claimant  is  a  clever  man,  he  can 
make  the  specialist  show  him  the  article  in  question,  saying :  I 
understand  that  you  keep  it  because  you  are  afraid  I  shall  deny  the 
debt  which  I  owe  you,  I  admit  to  you  in  the  presence  of  witnesses 
that  I  owe  you,  and  will  pay  you  when  you  shall  bring  forth  this 
garment  and  it  shall  be  appraised.  Then  you  will  take  yours, 
and  I  shall  take  mine.  Said  R.  Aha  b.  R.  Ivya  to  R.  Ashi  :  The 
swindler  may  answer :  I  do  not  need  your  appraisement,  as  it  was 
appraised  long  ago  by  more  competent  men  than  you  are. 

''Gardeners,''  etc.  Why  so?  Until  now  he  took  only  the 
half,  and  now  we  see  he  has  consumed  the  Avhole  of  it  for  three 
years,  why  has  he  no  hazakah?  Said  R.  Johanan  :  It  speaks  of 
family  gardeners  {i.e.,  the  same  gardeners  used  to  guard  and  work 
up  the  fields  as  gardens  of  that  family  since  it  was  in  its  posses- 
sion, and  as  this  was  a  kind  of  inheritance,  the  owners  could 
not  discharge  them  by  substituting  others,  and  with  such  gar- 
deners it  might  happen  that  they  consumed  the  fruit  for  three 
years  in  succession  and  thereafter  the  owners  consumed  the  fruit 
for  the  same  period,  and  therefore  no  hazakah  applies  to  them. 
But  to  ordinary  gardeners,  if  they  consume  the  fruit  for  three 
years,  hazakah  does  apply.  R.  Na'hman  said  :  A  gardener  who 
has  hired  other  gardeners  to  substitute  him  for  the  years  of 
hazakah  (even  if  he  was  of  the  kind  mentioned  by  R.  Johanan), 
hazakah  may  be  considered,  because  in  such  a  case  the  owners 
would  protest.  R.  Johanan  said  again  :  To  a  gardener  of  the 
above  sort,  who  has  divided  the  work  which  is  needed  for  the 
gardens,  to  hired  gardeners,  hazakah  does  not  apply,  as  it  may 
be  supposed  that  he  does  so  with  the  permission  of  the  owner 
(as  he  himself  could  not  do  the  whole  work). 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  117 

R.  Na'hman  b.  R.  Hisda  sent  a  message  to  R.  Na'hman  b. 
Jacob  :  Let  the  master  teach  us.  May  a  gardener  be  taken  as  a 
witness  in  case  of  a  claim,  or  not  ?  R.  Joseph  was  sitting  before 
the  latter  when  the  message  came,  and  said  to  him  :  "  So  said 
Samuel :  A  gardener  may  be  a  witness."  But  is  there  not  a 
Boraitha  which  states  that  they  must  not?  This  presents  no 
difficulty.  If  there  are  products  still  on  the  estate,  the  gardener 
may  not  qualify  as  a  witness ;  but  if  there  were  none,  then  he 
may. 

The  rabbis  taught :  A  surety  may  be  a  witness  for  the  bor- 
rower in  case  the  latter  has  other  property  besides  that  to  which 
the  claim  refers.  And  the  same  is  the  case  with  a  lender.  The 
first  buyer  may  be  a  witness  to  the  second  {e.g.,  if  A  sold  one 
field  to  B  and  another  to  C,  and  D  claims  that  the  field  sold 
to  C  belongs  to  him  as  A  has  robbed  him  of  it,  B  may  be  a  wit- 
ness in  that  case  in  behalf  of  C  in  case  A  has  other  property), 
so  that  if  there  should  be  another  claim  he  should  be  able  to  pay 
from  the  remainder. 

A  receiver  [i.e.,  one  who  receives  the  money  from  the  lender 
and  forwards  it  to  the  borrower,  as  to  which  the  law  dictates  that 
the  lender  has  a  right  to  collect  from  whomsoever  he  chooses — 
either  from  the  receiver  or  from  the  borrower) — according  to  some 
he  may,  and  according  to  others  he  may  not  be  a  witness.  He 
who  permits  this  maintains  that  the  receiver  is  considered  an  ordi- 
nary surety  whom  the  law  permits  to  be  a  witness,  and  he  who 
forbids  it  maintains  that  the  receiver  is  always  pleased  when  the 
borrower  has  more  estates,  so  that  in  case  a  creditor  should  appear 
he  will  be  able  to  pay  him  from  his  middle  estate. 

R.  Johanan  said  again  :  A  specialist  has  no  hazakah,  but  his 
son  has ;  and  the  same  is  the  case  with  a  gardener.  A  robber, 
however,  neither  he  nor  his  son  has  hazakah,  but  his  grandson 
has.  Let  us  see  how  was  the  case  ?  If  all  mentioned  above 
claimed  that  the  estate  was  their  fathers',  then  they  also  should 
not  have  any  hazakah  ;  and  if  "  they  claim  for  themselves,  it 
means  that  they  themselves  bought  it.  Why  should  this  law  not 
apply  to  the  son  of  the  robber  also  ?  He  speaks  of  a  case  where 
there  are  witnesses  who  testify  that  the  owners  have  admitted  to 
their  fathers  in  their  presence  that  they  sold  it;  and  then  the  sons 
of  a  gardener  or  a  specialist  are  to  be  trusted  if  they  claim  to 
have  inherited  from  their  fathers ;  but  the  son  of  a  robber  is  not 
to  be  trusted  even  in  such  a  case.  As  R.  Kahana  said  :  It  may 
be  feared  that  the  owner  has  admitted  to  the  robber  only  for  fear 


ii8  THE    BABYLOxNIAN    TALMUD. 

lest  he  make  him  more  trouble.  Said  Rabha :  It  may  happen 
that  even  the  grandson  of  a  robber  shall  not  have  any  hazakah. 
It  is  when  the  basis  of  his  claim  is  his  grandfather.  Who  is  to 
be  considered  a  robber,  so  that  the  law  of  hazakah  should  not 
apply?  Said  R.  Johanan  :  When  he  has  occupied  a  field  which 
does  not  belong  to  him  (and  as  he  was  an  influential  man,  the 
owner  was  afraid  to  sue  him).  R.  Hisda,  however,  maintains  that 
it  means  only  people  like  a  certain  family  of  N,  who  used  to  kill 
men  when  they  opposed  them  in  money  matters. 

The  rabbis  taught  :  A  specialist  has  no  hazakah  so  long  as  he 
keeps  up  his  profession,  but  otherwise  when  he  has  ceased.  And 
the  same  is  the  case  with  a  gardener  when  he  has  given  up  his 
gardening.  The  same  is  the  case  with  a  son  who  has  separated 
himself  from  his  father,  and  with  a  woman  who  was  divorced 
from  her  husband — all  of  them  are  considered,  in  a  case  of  hazakah, 
with  men  in  general.  It  is  correct  to  teach  about  a  son  who  has 
separated  himself,  lest  one  say  that  usually  a  father  relinquishes 
his  right  to  a  son  ;  but  was  it  also  necessary  to  teach  about  a 
divorced  woman  ?  Is  not  this  self-evident?  It  means  that  the 
divorce  was  made  by  such  a  document  as  is  doubtful  in  legahty, 
and  in  such  a  case  she  is  considered  divorced  and  not  divorced  ; 
and  it  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Zera,  who  said  in  the  name  of  Jere- 
miah b.  Abba,  quoting  Samuel,  that  in  a  case  where  the  sages 
say,  "  She  is  divorced  and  not  divorced,"  her  husband  is  obliged 
to  support  her. 

R.  Na'hman  said :  Huna  told  me  that  all  the  persons  men- 
tioned above  who  have  not  the  right  of  hazakah,  if  they  bring 
evidence,  it  is  to  be  considered,  and  the  court  may  leave  the 
property  in  their  possession ;  except  a  robber,  for  even  if  he 
brought  evidence,  it  must  not  be  considered,  and  the  court  re- 
plevins the  estate.  But  what  news  comes  he  to  teach  us?  Have 
we  not  learned  this  already  elsewhere,  that  if  one  has  bought 
estates  from  a  sicarius  (a  man  who  took  away  the  estate  by  threat- 
ening  murder  if  it  was  not  given  to  him),  and  afterwards  he  got 
a  bill  of  sale  from  the  owner  (without  giving  him  any  money), 
the  bill  of  sale  is  not  considered  and  he  has  no  title  (hence  it  is 
already  taught  that  a  robber  and  all  those  who  base  their  claims 
upon  his  actions,  even  if  they  bring  evidence,  are  not  to  be  con- 
sidered) ?  This  teaching  was  necessary  to  deny  Rabh's  theory, 
who  said  that  the  cited  Mishna  speaks  only  of  a  case  in  which 
the  owner  told  the  buyer  :  "  Go  make  a  hazakah  on  the  estate 
and  acquire  title,"  but  has  not  furnished  him  with  any  deed. 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST    GATE).  119 

But  if  he  gave  him  a  deed,  title  is  acquired.  R.  Huna  comes  to 
teach  us  that  the  Halakha  prevails  in  accordance  with  Samuel, 
who  said  that  in  such  a  case,  even  if  he  gave  him  a  deed,  title  is 
not  acquired  unless  he  take  the  responsibility  for  the  future.  And 
R.  Bibi  has  added  to  the  above  statement  of  Huna  in  the  name 
of  R.  Na'hman,  that  the  estate  does  not  remain  in  his  possession, 
but  the  claim  for  his  money,  in  case  he  paid  afterwards  to  the 
robbed  one,  is  to  be  considered,  provided  witnesses  testify  that 
he  gave  him  the  money  in  their  presence.  But  if  they  testify 
that  in  their  presence  the  robbed  one  has  admitted  to  the  robber 
that  he  was  paid  for  it,  it  is  not  to  be  considered.  As  R.  Kahana 
said  elsewhere :  Such  an  admission  may  have  been  made  only 
because  of  fear  that  he  would  be  killed.  R.  Huna  said :  If  one 
sold  his  estate  by  duress,  the  sale  is  valid.  Why  so  ?  For  if  one 
sells  eveiy  estate  which  belongs  to  him,  he  usually  does  so  because 
he  is  compelled  to  do  so  by  circumstances,  and  nevertheless  the 
sale  is  valid. 

But  perhaps  there  is  a  difference  between  the  pressure  of  his 
private  circumstances  and  duress,  which  is  a  pressure  by  others? 
This  is  to  be  explained  as  we  have  learned  in  the  following 
Boraitha :  It  is  written  [Lev.  i.  3]  :  "  Shall  he  bring  it,"  which  means 
that  he  may  be  compelled  to  bring  it — that  it  may  be  Lirzuno 
(literally,  according  to  his  will).  And  what  does  this  mean — that  he 
shall  be  compelled  until  he  shall  say  :  "  I  am  willing  to  do  so."  But 
still  it  may  be  that  there  is  a  difference,  because  one  likes  to  atone 
(and  consequently  he  does  it,  finally,  with  good  will).  Therefore 
we  may  infer  the  same  from  the  latter  part  of  the  cited  Mishna : 
And  the  same  is  the  case  with  divorced  women — he  may  be  com- 
pelled until  he  says :  "  I  am  willing  to  do  so."  But  still  it  may 
be  that  this  is  to  be  done  because  it  is  a  meritorious  act  to  listen 
to  the  law  (which  is  not  the  case  with  R.  Huna's  theory).  There- 
fore we  must  say  that  R.  Huna's  decision  was  from  a  common- 
sense  standpoint,  that  when  a  man  is  in  such  circumstances  he 
resolves  to  give  title  to  the  buyer.  R.  Jehudah  objected  from 
the  following :  A  divorce  which  was  compelled  by  the  court  of 
Israelites  is  valid.  By  Gentiles,  it  is  not,  unless  they  beat  him, 
saying:  "  Do  as  the  Israelite  court  dictates  to  you."  Now,  if 
you  say  because  of  the  circumstances  he  resolves  to  give  title, 
why  should  the  divorce  be  invalid,  even  at  a  court  of  Gentiles? 
It  may  also  be  supposed  that  because  of  circumstances  it  was 
resolved  to  give  the  divorce  legally.  The  answer  is :  Was  it  not 
taught  in  addition  to  this  that  R.  Mesharshiah  said  :  Biblically 


I20  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

the  divorce  is  valid,  even  when  it  was  obtained  in  a  court  of 
Gentiles.  And  why  did  the  rabbis  enact  that  such  should  be 
invalid — that  every  woman  who  did  not  like  her  husband  should 
not  go  to  the  Gentile  court  to  be  divorced  from  her  husband  ? 
R.  Hamnuna  objected  from  the  above-cited  Mishna  :  If  he  bought 
of  a  sicarius,  etc.  Why,  then,  should  it  not  be  said  in  that  case 
also,  that  because  of  the  circumstances  he  resolved  to  give  title? 
Of  this,  also,  it  was  taught  that  Rabh  said  that  this  holds  good 
only  when  there  was  no  deed  (as  said  above).  But  still  there 
would  be  an  objection  to  Samuel,  who  said  above  that  even  with 
a  deed  the  same  is  invalid  ? 

Samuel  himself  agrees  that  such  a  sale  is  valid  in  case  the 
buyer  has  paid  the  owner  in  cash.  But  would  not  R.  Bibi's 
above  statement  in  the  name  of  R.  Na'hman  contradict  R.  Huna? 
Bibi's  statement  is  not  a  Boraitha  and  not  a  Mishna,  but  only  a 
saying,  to  which  R.  Huna  need  not  pay  any  attention.  Said 
Rabha :  The  Halakha  prevails  that  if  one  sells  his  goods  under 
duress  the  sale  is  valid,  provided  he  was  compelled  to  sell  one  of 
his  estates,  and  he  himself  has  made  the  selection.  But  if  he  was 
compelled  to  sell  this  field,  the  sale  is  not  valid,  provided  he  did 
not  count  the  money  given  him  for  it  (as  this  shows  that  he  does 
it  unwillingly)  ;  but  if  he  has  counted  the  money  the  sale  is  valid. 
And  all  this  is  said  in  case  he  has  no  opportunity  to  extricate 
himself ;  but  if  he  had,  and  did  not  take  adv^antage  of  it,  the 
sales  are  valid.  (Says  the  Gemara  :  )  In  reality,  the  Halakha  pre- 
vails that  in  all  these  cases  the  sale  is  valid,  even  if  he  was  com- 
pelled to  sell  this  field,  as  a  woman  is  similar  to  this  field ;  and 
Amemar  said  that  if  a  woman  is  compelled  to  betroth  herself 
under  duress  the  betrothal  is  valid.  Mar  b.  R.  Ashi,  however, 
said  that  in  case  of  a  woman  the  betrothal  is  null  and  void.  Be- 
cause he  has  acted  unlawfully,  he  must  also  be  treated  unlawfully, 
and  the  rabbis  deny  his  betrothal  and  consider  it  void. 

Tabba  hung  Pappi  on  a  tree  called  khidra,  to  compel  him  to 
sell  him  his  field,  and  he  did  so.  And  Rabha  b.  b.  Hana  signed  his 
name  on  both — on  the  protest  of  Pappi  made  before  being  com- 
pelled, and  on  the  bill  of  sale  made  under  duress.  Said  R.  Huna  : 
He  who  has  signed  his  name  to  the  protest,  and  also  he  who  has 
signed  his  name  on  the  bill  of  sale,  did  well.  How  is  this  to  be 
understood  ?  If  there  was  a  protest,  the  bill  of  sale  cannot  hold 
good,  and  vice  versa  ?  He  meant  to  say  that  if  there  were  no 
protest,  he  who  signed  his  name  on  the  bill  of  sale  did  well,  for 
according  to  his  theory  a  sale  under  duress  is  valid.     But  why 


TRACT    BABA   BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  121 

should  the  protest  annul  the  bill  of  sale,  when  the  same  witnesses 
who  signed  the  protest  signed  the  bill  of  sale  also  ?  Did  not  R. 
Na'hman  say :  Witnesses  who  testify  that  they  signed  their 
names  to  a  note  whose  amount  was  not  yet  paid,  but  which  was 
prepared  by  the  borrower  in  case  he  should  find  some  one  who 
would  make  him  the  loan,  are  not  to  be  trusted  ?  And  the  same 
is  the  case  if  some  one  has  sold  a  bill  of  sale,  and  the  witnesses 
whose  signatures  were  on  the  same  testified  that  the  one  who 
made  the  bill  of  sale  made  also  a  protest  previously  "  before  us, 
that  he  was  compelled  to  make  this  bill  of  sale,  and  we  have 
acknowledged  the  truth  of  his  protest." 

Why,  then,  said  R.  Huna  that  if  not  for  the  protest  the  sale 
would  be  valid?  Let  him  say  it  is  valid,  notwithstanding  this 
protest,  in  accordance  with  R.  Na'hman's  decision  just  stated? 
R.  Na'hman's  statement  was  when  the  protest  was  oral,  as  such 
cannot  harm  a  written  document.  In  our  case,  however,  the 
protest  was  a  written  one,  and  therefore  it  annuls  the  bill  of  sale. 

Mar  b.  R.  Ashi,  however,  maintains  that  if  witnesses  testify, 
"  We  signed  our  names  before  the  money  was  given  "  (as  explained 
above),  they  are  not  to  be  trusted  ;  but  if  they  testify  that  this 
bill  of  sale  was  previously  "  protested  before  us  and  acknowledged 
by  us,"  they  may  be  trusted.  Why  so?  Because  in  the  first 
case,  after  the  witnesses  signed  their  names  to  the  fact  that  so  and 
so  had  borrowed  money  from  so  and  so,  they  could  not  sign  an- 
other document  that  the  borrower  had  not  received  the  money 
as  yet,  as  it  would  contradict  their  first  statement,  and  it  would 
seem  that  they  had  made  themselves  liars ;  and,  therefore,  if  they 
testify  so,  they  are  not  to  be  trusted,  as  there  is  a  rule  that  one 
cannot  make  himself  wicked  ;  i.e.,  if  one  comes  before  the  court, 
and  says,  "  I  am  a  liar,"  or  "  wicked,"  for  the  purpose  that  another 
shall  have  benefit  from  this  confession,  he  is  not  to  be  trusted. 
But  in  the  other  case,  however,  both  documents  may  be  written 
by  the  very  same  men ;  i.e.,  if  they  see  a  man  in  trouble,  they 
may  listen  to  his  protest,  write  it  down,  and  sign  it,  and  thereafter 
also  sign  the  bill  of  sale  to  which  he  was  compelled.  And  there- 
fore, even  if  the  protest  was  not  written  by  them,  they  may  be 
trusted  if  they  testify  that  they  have  heard  the  protest  and 
acknowledged  to  the  truth  of  it. 

''No  hazakah  to  a  husband^'  etc.  Is  this  not  self-evident? 
As  he  has  a  right  to  use  the  fruit  of  her  estate,  how  can  it  be 
considered  a  hazakah  ?  It  speaks  of  even  when  he  gave  her 
a  document  that  he  has  no  interest  in  her  estate.    But  even  then, 


122  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

what  is  it  ?  Have  we  not  learned  in  a  Boraitha  above  (p.  109), 
that  if  one  says :  "  I  have  nothing  to  do  with  this  field,"  "  I  have 
no  claim  to  it,"  and,  "  I  keep  my  hands  off  it,"  he  says  nothing? 
Said  the  disciples  of  R.  Yanai  :  Our  Mishna  treats  of  when  he 
gave  her  such  a  document  when  she  was  still  betrothed.  And 
this  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Kahana,  who  says  of  an  estate  which 
one  expected  to  take  possession  of  ir^  the  future,  he  has  a  right 
to  make  a  stipulation  that  he  should  not  inherit  it.  And  it  is 
also  in  accordance  with  Rabha,  who  said  :  If  one  declares  :  "  I  do 
not  care  to  have  the  privilege  of  the  evnactment  by  the  sages  in 
a  thing  similar  to  the  above,"  he  may  be  listened  to.  What  does 
this  mean  ?  That  which  R.  Huna  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh  :  A 
woman  has  a  right  to  say  to  her  husband  :  "  I  do  not  wish  to  be 
supported  by  you  and  also  would  not  wish  to  do  any  work 
for  you." 

Now  the  Mishna  states  that  the  consuming  of  fruit  does  not 
make  a  hazakah  ;  but  if  he  brings  evidence  that  she  sold  her 
estate  to  him,  it  would  be  a  hazakah.  Why  ?  Let  her  claim 
that  she  had  done  so  only  to  please  her  husband.  Have  we  not 
learned  in  a  Mishna :  If  one  bought  an  estate  from  another  whose 
properties  were  encumbered  by  the  marriage  contract  of  his  wife, 
and  afterwards  he  also  took  a  deed  from  his  wife,  the  sale  is  in- 
valid ?  Is  it  not  because  she  may  say :  I  did  so  only  with  the 
intention  of  pleasing  my  husband,  but  not  with  the  intention  of 
selling  it  ?  Was  it  not  taught  in  addition  to  this  Mishna  that 
Rabha  b.  R.  Huna  explained  it  that  the  Mishna  treats  of  certain 
three  fields — namely,  one,  of  one  he  had  set  apart  in  the  marriage 
contract  before  marriage  ;  and  another,  of  one  of  which  he  had 
made  a  hypothec  in  the  marriage  contract  after  marriage  ;  and  the 
third,  of  one  which  she  brought  him  as  a  gift  from  her  father, 
which  was  appraised  at  a  certain  amount  of  money,  for  which  the 
husband  became  responsible  in  the  marriage  contract  ?  What 
does  he  mean  to  exclude  ?  Shall  we  assume  to  exclude  all  other 
estates  which  were  also  encumbered  to  her?  Then,  certainly,  it 
would  create  so  much  the  more  animosity  between  her  husband 
and  herself,  because  he  would  say  :  You  did  not  want  to  sign 
this  because  you  arc  expecting  my  death  or  to  be  divorced. 
Hence  the  claim  that  "  I  have  done  so  to  please  my  husband  " 
would  be  right.  And  shall  we  say  that  he  means  to  exclude  the 
usage  of  fruit  ?  Did  not  Amemar  say  that  if  the  husband  and 
his  wife  have  sold  the  usage  of  fruit  from  her  estate,  it  is  not  to 
be  considered  (because  of  the  same  claim,  "  I  have  done  it  only  to 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  123 

please  my  husband  ")  ?  He  means  to  exclude  the  use  of  fruit ; 
and  Amemar's  statement  was  only  in  case  he  had  sold  out  and 
died,  that  she  might,  after  his  death,  make  use  of  that  claim,  or 
in  case  of  her  death,  he  had  a  right  to  make  use  of  such  a  claim, 
according  to  the  enactment  of  the  rabbis.  And  it  is  as  R.  Jose 
b.  Hanina  said  (First  Gate,  p.  197).  But  when  they  are  both 
alive  and  have  sold  out,  and  even  when  the  husband  only  has 
sold  out,  the  sale  is  valid.  And  if  you  wish,  it  can  be  said  that 
Amemar's  statement  is  based  upon  R.  EHezer's  elsewhere,  that 
an  article  which  does  not  bear  the  name  of  its  owner — as,  for  in- 
stance, the  fruit  of  the  wife's  estate,  which  cannot  be  said  to 
belong  to  her  or  to  belong  to  him — cannot  be  sold  by  either  of 
them.  And  Rabha  said  that  R.  Eliezer  based  his  statement  on 
[Ex.  xxi.  21],  "for  he  is  his  money,"  which  means  the  money 
which  belongs  to  him  alone. 

"  On  his  wife's  estate."  But  did  not  Rabh  say  that  a  married 
woman  must  protest  (in  case  one  has  occupied  her  estate).  Who 
is  the  one  who  has  occupied  her  estate  ?  Shall  we  assume  any 
one  ?  Did  not  Rabh  say  :  "  There  is  no  occupancy  in  the  estates 
of  a  married  woman  "  ?  We  must  therefore  say,  he  means  even 
when  her  husband  has  occupied  her  estate  ?  Said  Rabha  :  He 
means  the  husband,  and  in  case  he  has  dug  in  her  estate  excava- 
tions, pits,  and  caves,  then  she  must  protest,  as  he  has  the  right 
to  her  estate  only  for  usage  of  fruit ;  and  if  she  did  not,  he  has  a 
hazakah,  as,  if  he  had  not  bought  it,  he  would  not  dare  to  dig 
in  it.  But  did  not  R.  Na'hman  say  in  the  name  of  Rabba  b. 
Abuhu  that  there  is  no  hazakah  concerning  damages  (hence  if 
the  husband  has  damaged  her  estate,  she  has  not  had  to  protest). 
Was  it  not  taught  in  addition  to  this  (above,  p.  69),  R.  Mari 
said  :  Concerning  smoke,  etc.  ?  R.  Joseph,  however,  said  :  Rabh 
means  a  stranger,  and  he  speaks  in  case  he  has  occupied  it  at  a 
certain  time  while  her  husband  was  still  alive  and  three  years 
after  his  death  ;  and  because  the  occupant  could  claim,  "  I  bought 
it  from  you  "  (as  three  years  have  already  elapsed  since  her  hus- 
band's decease),  he  is  to  be  trusted  if  he  claims,  "You  sold 
out  your  estate  to  your  husband,  and  I  bought  it  from  him." 
The  text  states  :  Rabh  says  :  There  is  no  occupancy  in  the  estate 
of  a  married  woman.  The  judges  of  the  Exile,  however,  main- 
tain that  there  is.  And  Rabh  himself,  when  he  was  told  of  this, 
said  :  The  Halakah  prevails  in  accordance  with  the  judges  of  the 
Exile.  (Samuel  and  Kama  were  called  the  judges  of  the  Exile.) 
And  to  the  question  of  R.  Kahana  and  R.  Assi :  Has  the  master 


124  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

receded  from  his  statement  ?  he  answered  :  I  meant  to  say,  as 
it  was  illustrated  above  by  R.  Joseph.* 

"And  vice  versa!'  Is  this  not  self-evident?  Has  she  not  to 
be  supported  from  the  estate  of  her  husband  ?  It  treats  in  case 
he  has  set  aside  another  estate  for  her  support.  But  how  is  it  if 
she  brings  evidence  that  she  has  paid  him  for  it  ?  Has  she  the 
right  ?  Let  him  claim  :  I  intended  only  to  discover  the  money 
which  she  had  hidden  from  me,  and  therefore  I  told  her  I  would 
sell  it,  never  intending,  however,  actually  to  transfer  it  to  her. 
And  because  it  was  not  stated,  let  it  be  inferred  from  this  that  if 
a  husband  sold  his  estate  to  his  wife,  the  above  claim  should  not 
be  taken  into  consideration?  Nay;  it  may  be  said  that  the 
Mishna  means  evidence  in  the  form  of  a  transfer  as  a  gift. 

R.  Na'hman  said  to  R.  Huna :  "  The  master  was  not  with  us 
yesterday,  in  our  college,  and  there  were  taught  many  good 
things."  "  And  what  were  they  ?  "  "  That  when  a  husband  sells 
his  estate  to  his  wife,  she  acquires  title,  and  the  claim,  '  I  did  it 
only  to  discover  her  money,'  etc.,  is  not  to  be  considered."  And 
Huna  answered :  This  is  self-evident,  as  if  you  take  away  the  fact 
that  she  has  given  him  money,  the  bill  of  sale  gives  her  title. 
For  have  we  not  learned  in  a  Mishna  that  real  estate  may  bought 
with  money  or  a  document,  or  with  hazakah  ?  Rejoined  R. 
Na'hman  :  But  was  it  not  taught,  in  addition  to  it,  that  Samuel 
said  that  it  speaks  only  of  a  bill  of  a  gift,  but  a  bill  of  sale  gives 
no  title  unless  he  paid  the  money  for  it?  Said  Huna:  But  was 
this  not  objected  to  by  R.  Hamnuna,  from  the  following :  With 
a  document — how  so?  If  he  wrote  on  a  piece  of  paper  [or  on  a 
piece  of  broken  clay,  although  it  has  no  value  whatever],  "  My 
field  is  sold  to  you,"  or,  "  My  field  is  bought  from  you,"  it  is  sold 
and  transferred  to  the  buyer?  And  R.  Na'hman  answered  to 
this :  Did  not  R.  Hamnuna  himself  answer  his  objection  that  it 
speaks  of  one  who  sells  his  estate  because  of  its  barrenness?  R. 
Ashi,  however,  answered  (the  objection  of  Hamnuna):  The  cited 
Boraitha  speaks  of  a  gift  which  was  written  in  the  manner  of  a 
bill  of  sale,  to  strengthen  its  power  {i.e.,  the  seller  has  to  make 
good  all  claims  to  it).  An  objection  was  raised  from  the  follow- 
ing :  If  one  borrowed  from  his  bondsman,  and  encumbered  his 
estate  for  him  by  a  document,  and  afterwards  he  freed  him,  or 
from  his  wife  and  thereafter  he  divorced  her,  they  have  nothing 

*  R.  Joseph  was  two  generations  after  Rabh.  But  it  is  the  custom  of  the 
Gemara  to  write  as  if  Rabh  would  have  said  :  "  I  illustrate  this  as  R.  Joseph  has 
done  it." 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  125 

to  claim.  Must  we  not  assume  that  the  reason  is  because  we 
suppose  that  he  only  intended  to  discover  the  money  which  was 
hidden  from  him?  That  case  is  different,  as  one  would  not  hke 
to  make  himself  a  slave  to  the  lender  ([Prov.  xxii.  7] :  "  The  bor- 
rower is  servant  to  the  lender"). 

R.  Huna  b.  Abbin  sent  a  message  to  the  college  relating  that 
if  one  sold  out  his  field  to  his  wife,  she  acquires  title,  but  he  has 
still  a  right  to  use  the  products.  However,  R.  Abba  b.  Abuhu, 
and  all  the  great  men  of  the  generation,  said  that  such  a  bill  of 
sale  is  to  be  considered  a  deed  of  gift,  but  it  was  written  in  the 
manner  of  a  bill  of  sale  for  the  purpose  of  strengthening  its 
power.  This  message  was  objected  to  by  the  college,  from  the 
Boraitha  just  cited,  and  was  answered  with  the  same  reply. 

Rabh  said  :  If  one  sold  his  field  to  his  wife,  she  acquires  title, 
and  the  husband  uses  the  products.  If,  however,  he  has  presented 
it  to  her  as  a  gift,  she  acquires  title,  and  he  must  not  use  the 
fruit.  R.  Elazar,  however,  maintains  that  in  both  cases  title  is 
acquired,  and  the  husband  has  no  right  to  use  the  fruit.  R.  Hisda 
acted  in  accordance  with  R.  Elazar.  Said  Rabban  Uqba  and 
Rabban  Nehemiah,  sons  of  Rabh's  daughter,  to  R.  Hisda  :  "  Does 
the  master  put  aside  the  great  men  and  act  like  the  small  ones?" 
(R.  Elazar  was  only  a  disciple  of  R.  Johanan.)  And  he  answered  : 
I  have  also  acted  according  to  the  theory  of  the  great  men,  as 
when  Rabbin  came  from  Palestine,  he  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Jo- 
hanan that  in  both  cases  she  acquires  title,  and  the  husband  has 
no  right  to  use  the  products.  Said  Rabha :  The  Halakha  prevails 
that  if  one  sells  his  field  to  his  wife  she  does  not  acquire  title, 
and  the  husband  may  use  the  fruit ;  and  if  a  gift,  she  acquires 
title,  and  he  may  not  use  the  products.  Does  not  Rabha  contra- 
dict himself?  (He  says  she  does  not  acquire  title,  and  it  is  self- 
evident  that  he  may  use  the  fruit ;  and  when  he  says  he  may  use 
the  fruit,  it  means  although  she  has  acquired  title.)  This  presents 
no  difficulty.  If  she  bought  with  the  money  which  was  hidden 
from  her  husband,  she  does  not  acquire  title  at  all ;  but  if  with 
money  which  was  not  hidden  from  him,  she  acquires  title ;  but 
he  may,  nevertheless,  use  the  fruit.  So  was  it  said  in  the  name 
of  R.  Jehudah. 

The  rabbis  taught :  One  must  not  accept  bailments  from 
women,  from  slaves,  or  from  children  :  If,  however,  one  has  ac- 
cepted from  a  woman,  he  must  return  it  to  her ;  and  in  case  she 
dies,  he  must  return  it  to  her  husband.  From  a  slave,  he  must 
return  to  him  ;  and  in  case  he  dies,  then  to  his  master.     If  from 


126  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

a  minor,  he  should  invest  it  in  such  a  thing  as  will  bear  good 
fruit  until  he  shall  be  of  age,  and  in  case  of  death  return  it  to  his 
heirs.  All  of  them,  however,  if  they  said,  while  dying,  "  This 
belongs  to  so  and  so,"  he  must  act  accordingly  (even  when  the 
depositor  was  a  minor) ;  and  if  they  have  declared  nothing,  he 
may  do  in  accordance  with  his  conscience — {i.e.,  he  shall  return 
it  to  him  whom  he  thinks  to  be  the  proper  heir.  The  wife  of 
Rabba  b.  b.  Hana  while  dying  said  :  These  earrings  belong  to 
Martha,  and  to  the  sons  of  his  daughter.  And  Rabba  came  to 
question  Rabh  what  he  should  do.  And  he  answered  :  If  these 
people  whom  she  mentioned  are  worthy,  so  that  they  can  afford 
to  keep  bailments  with  her,  then  do  as  she  declared  ;  and  if  not, 
then  you  may  explain  her  declaration  as  you  please.  "  From  a 
minor,  he  should  invest,"  etc.  R.  Hisda  maintains  in  Holy 
Scrolls;  and  Rabha  b.  Huna  said  :  A  tree  which  bears  dates. 

•'  A  father  on  the  estate  of  his  son"  etc.  Said  R.  Joseph  : 
Even  if  they  have  separated  themselves.  Rabha,  however,  main- 
tains that  in  case  of  separation  the  law  is  different.  Said  R. 
Jeremiah  of  Diphti :  R.  Pappi  has  acted  in  accordance  with 
Rabha's  statement.  Said  R.  Na'hman  b,  Itz'hak :  I  was  told  by 
R.  Hyya  of  Hurmiz  Ardshir  that  he  was  told  by  R.  Aha  b. 
Jacob,  quoting  R.  Na'hman  b.  Jacob,  that  when  they  have  sepa- 
rated themselves  each  of  them  has  a  right  of  hazakah.  And  so 
the  Halakha  prevails. 

It  was  taught :  If  one  of  brothers  who  was  the  business  man 
of  the  house,  and  the  bills  of  sale  and  notes  were  in  his  name, 
claims  :  "  All  this  is  my  own,  inherited  from  my  mother's  father," 
according  to  Rabh,  the  burden  of  proof  lies  upon  him  ;  and  ac- 
cording to  Samuel,  it  lies  upon  his  brothers.  Said  Samuel :  Abba 
admits  that  in  case  he  dies  the  burden  of  proof  is  thrown  upon 
his  brothers.  R.  Papa  opposed :  Should  we  make  for  orphans 
such  a  claim  as  their  father  while  alive  had  not  any  right  to  {i.e., 
when  this  brother  was  alive,  it  was  for  him  to  bring  evidence,  and 
if  he  could  not,  the  goods  belong  to  all  the  brothers,  and  because 
he  is  dead,  shall  we  say  that  the  brothers  have  to  bring  evidence, 
and  if  they  cannot  it  belongs  to  his  orphans)?  Did  not  Rabha 
levy  upon  a  pair  of  shoes  and  a  book  of  Hagadah  from  orphans 
without  any  evidence  that  they  were  things  which  are  usually 
hired  and  borrowed?  And  he  did  so  in  accordance  with  the 
message  of  R.  Huna  b.  Abbin,  that  of  things  which  are  usually 
borrowed  and  hired  one  is  not  trusted  to  say,  "  They  were  bought 
by  mc."     This  difficulty  remains. 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  127 

Said  R.  Hisda :  The  decision  of  Rabh  concerning  the  brother 
who  manages  the  business  of  the  house,  holds  good  only  when 
all  the  brothers  are  not  separated  in  the  household — even  in  the 
dough  of  bread  which  they  take  for  the  house.  But  if  they 
are,  he  may  claim  that  he  has  spared  from  his  householding  the 
amount  which  he  has  in  his  hand,  and  the  brothers  have  nothing 
to  do  with  it.  The  evidence  mentioned  in  Rabh's  decision — 
what  should  it  be?  According  to  Rabba,  the  evidence  should  be 
with  witnesses  that  he  has  saved  the  money  or  it  came  from 
other  sources  ;  and  according  to  R.  Shesheth,  it  is  sufficient  when 
the  court  has  approved  the  bill  of  sale  or  other  notes  which  bear 
his  name  (as  it  is  to  be  supposed  that  the  court  would  not  ap- 
prove if  it  were  not  sure  it  belonged  to  him  only).  Said  Rabha 
to  R.  Na'hman :  There  are  Rabh  and  Samuel,  with  Rabba  and 
R.  Shesheth,  who  discuss  this  matter,  and  I  would  like  to  know 
the  opinion  of  you,  master — with  whom  you  agree.  And  he 
answered  :  I  am  aware  of  the  following  Boraitha  :  One  of  brothers 
who  was  the  business  man  of  the  house,  and  there  were  bills 
of  sale  and  other  notes  bearing  his  name  only,  and  he  claims : 
"  They  are  my  own,  inherited  from  my  mother's  father,"  the  bur- 
den of  evidence  rests  with  him.  And  the  same  is  the  case  with 
a  woman  who  was  managing  the  business  in  a  house  and  there 
were  documents  bearing  her  name  only,  and  she  claims  that  they 
are  her  own  property  which  came  from  her  grandfather  on  the 
father's  or  mother's  side — it  is  upon  her  to  bring  evidence.  (Says 
the  Gamara :)  It  was  necessary  for  the  Boraitha  to  declare  the 
same  law  in  the  case  of  a  woman,  lest  one  say  that  because  it  is 
an  honor  for  a  woman  to  be  trusted  with  the  management  of  a 
house,  she  would  surely  take  care  not  to  rob  the  orphans,  and 
therefore  she  ought  to  be  trusted  without  evidence,  it  comes  to 
teach  that  it  is  not  so. 

"  Concerning  a  gift  or  an  inheritance  of  brothers,''  etc.  How 
is  this  to  be  understood  ?  Does  not  the  law  of  hazakah  apply  to 
the  persons  mentioned  farther  on  in  the  Mishna  ?  The  Mishna 
is  not  complete,  and  should  read  thus :  All  this  is  said  of  a  haza- 
kah to  which  there  is  a  claim  ;  as,  for  instance,  the  seller  says,  "  I 
did  not  sell,"  and  the  buyer  says,  "  I  have  bought."  But  a  haza- 
kah to  which  there  is  no  claim,  as,  for  instance,  who  presents  a 
gift  or  an  inheritance  of  brothers,  or  who  takes  possession  of  the 
property  of  a  proselyte,  to  which  the  law  prescribes  that  he  needs 
to  acquire  title  by  doing  something — if  he  has  locked  it  or  made 
any  partition,  etc. — it  is  a  hazakah.     R.  Houshia  taught :   In  a 


128  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Tosephta  of  Tract  Kidushin,  written  by  the  school  of  Levi,  "  If 
he  locked  it,"  etc.,  in  the  face  of  the  other  party — it  is  a  hazakah. 
Is  this  to  be  understood,  only  to  his  face,  but  not  in  his  absence  ? 
Said  Rabha :  He  meant  to  say :  If  this  was  in  the  face  of  the 
other  party,  it  is  not  necessary  for  the  latter  to  tell  him :  "  Go 
make  a  hazakah,  and  acquire  title."  But  if  not  to  his  face,  it  is 
not  considered  a  hazakah  unless  he  distinctly  said  to  him  the 
words  just  mentioned.  Questioned  Rabh  :  How  is  the  law  con- 
cerning a  gift,  according  to  the  Boraitha  just  mentioned  (must 
the  giver  also  tell  the  receiver,  "Go  and  make  a  hazakah,"  or 
not)  ?  Said  Samuel :  Why  was  Abba  doubtful  ?  When,  concern- 
ing a  sale  for  which  the  seller  gets  money,  it  is  not  a  hazakah 
unless  he  tells  him,  "  Go  and  make  a  hazakah,"  so  much  the  less 
it  must  be  so  with  a  gift,  for  which  he  has  received  nothing. 
Rabh,  however,  maintains  that  he  who  makes  a  gift  usually  makes 
it  with  a  good  eye,  and  no  explanation  is  needed. 

The  Mishna  states  :  "  Any  work  whatever."  What  does  this 
mean?  As  Samuel  said  :  If  he  has  completed  the  partition  which 
was  there  already  to  the  size  of  ten  spans,  or  he  has  broken  a 
hole  in  the  partition  through  which  he  can  go  in  or  out,  it  is  con- 
sidered a  hazakah.  Let  us  see  how  was  the  partition  !  If  it  was 
placed  in  such  a  position  that  one  could  not  climb  over  it  to  the 
estate,  and  after  its  completion  by  the  occupant  it  is  also  the 
same,  what,  then,  has  he  done  that  shall  be  considered  a  hazakah  ? 
And  if  in  its  previous  condition  one  could  climb  over  it,  and  after 
its  completion  one  cannot,  then  he  has  done  much  that  does  not 
correspond  with  the  expression  "whatever"?  It  means  that  in 
the  previous  condition  one  could  easily  climb  over  it,  and  after 
it  was  completed  it  is  not  so  easy  for  one  to  do  so ;  and  the  same 
is  the  case  with  a  hole  in  a  partition,  by  which,  in  the  previous 
condition,  it  was  not  easy  to  enter,  and  one  broke  it  to  such  an 
extent  that  it  is  easy  to  enter.  R.  Assi  in  the  name  of  R.  Joha- 
nan  said  :  If  the  occupant  of  the  property  of  a  proselyte  put  a 
Uttle  piece  of  wood  too  near  the  hole  which  was  in  the  partition 
and  with  this  he  has  improved  it,  or  he  took  out  a  piece  of  wood 
and  with  this  he  has  improved  it,  it  is  considered  a  hazakah. 
What  does  he  mean  by  the  expression,  "  he  put  .  .  .  or  he 
took  out "  ?  Shall  we  assume  that  with  this  piece  of  wood  he 
closed  the  hole  so  that  it  prevents  the  water  from  going  in,  or 
he  took  out  a  piece  of  wood,  and  with  this  he  has  made  place  for 
the  water  gathered  in  to  come  out  ?  Why  should  it  be  considered 
a  hazakah  ?    Is  it  not  the  duty  of  every  Israelite  to  save  the  prop- 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  129 

erty  of  his  neighbor  from  damage  when  seeing  danger  is  near  ? 
Therefore  it  must  be  supposed  that  he  means  he  has  put  in  a 
piece  of  wood  with  the  purpose  that  the  water  which  is  useful  to 
the  estate  shall  remain,  or  he  took  out  a  piece  of  wood  so  that  he 
opened  a  channel  permitting  water  to  reach  the  estate.  The  same 
said  again  in  the  name  of  the  same  authority :  If  there  were  two 
estates  left  by  a  proselyte  and  there  was  a  boundary  between 
them,  and  one  has  made  a  hazakah  in  one  of  them  with  the  pur- 
pose of  acquiring  title  to  it,  it  is  acquired.  If  for  the  purpose  of 
acquiring  title  to  both,  title  is  acquired  only  to  that  on  which  he 
has  made  a  hazakah,  but  not  to  that  which  was  on  the  other  side 
of  the  boundary ;  and  if  for  the  purpose  of  acquiring  title  to  the 
latter,  even  to  that  in  which  he  has  made  a  hazakah,  title  is  not 
acquired. 

R.  Zera  questioned  :  If  one  has  made  a  hazakah  for  the  pur- 
pose of  acquiring  title  to  it,  to  the  boundary,  and  to  the  estate 
which  is  beyond  it,  how  is  the  law  ?  Shall  we  assume  that  be- 
cause all  are  connected  title  is  acquired,  or  because  the  boundary 
intervenes  between  them  it  is  considered  as  if  they  were  separated 
and  title  is  not  acquired  ?  This  question  remains  undecided. 
R.  Elazar  questioned  :  How  is  it  if  this  man  has  made  a  hazakah 
on  the  boundary  itself  with  the  purpose  of  acquiring  title  to  both? 
Should  the  boundary  be  considered  a  breadth  of  the  earth  which 
joins  the  two  fields,  and  therefore  title  is  acquired,  or  the  fields 
are  nevertheless  considered  separated  and  title  is  not  acquired  ? 
This  question  also  remains  undecided. 

R.  Na'hman  said  in  the  name  of  Rabba  b.  Abuhu  :  If  there 
were  two  houses,  one  inside  of  the  other,  and  one  has  made  a 
hazakah  on  the  outer  one  for  the  purpose  of  acquiring  title  to  it, 
title  is  acquired.  If  for  the  purpose  of  acquiring  title  on  the 
inner  one  also,  the  outer  one  is  acquired,  but  not  the  inner.  For 
the  purpose  of  acquiring  the  inner  one  only,  even  the  outer  one 
is  not  acquired.  The  same  is  said  again  in  the  name  of  the  same 
authority  :  If  one  has  built  a  palace  on  the  property  belonging  to 
the  proselyte  in  question,  and  another  comes  and  puts  doors  to 
the  palace,  the  latter  has  acquired  title  to  the  whole  of  it.  Why 
so  ?  Because  the  work  of  the  first  is  considered  as  if  he  had  only 
turned  bricks  without  using  them,  as  the  doors  to  it  are  the  main 
thing. 

R.  Dimi  b.  Joseph  in  the  name  of  R.  Elazar  said :  If  on  the 
estate  of  the  proselyte  in  question  there  was  a  palace  and  one  has 
coated  one  of  the  walls  with  lime,  or  painted  one  of  the  pictures 
9 


I30  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

therein,  title  is  acquired.  How  much  of  the  wall  must  he  coat 
or  how  large  must  he  paint  the  picture?  Said  R.  Joseph:  One 
ell.  And  R.  Hisda  added  that  this  ell  must  be  opposite  the  door 
(but  at  another  place  he  must  coat  or  paint  more  than  this). 

R.  Amram  said  :  The  following  was  told  to  us  by  R.  She- 
sheth,  who  to  enlighten  our  eyes  explained  a  Boraitha.  He  said : 
If  one  has  prepared  his  bed  in  the  estate  of  the  proselyte  in 
question  and  slept  there,  he  acquires  title  to  the  whole  estate. 
And  he  enlightened  our  eyes  to  the  Boraitha  as  follows :  How 
can  one  acquire  title  to  a  bondsman  with  hazakah  ?  If  the  slave 
has  put  on  the  shoes  of  the  master  or  taken  off  his  shoes,  or  has 
carried  his  garments  after  him  to  the  bath-house  and  undressed 
him  and  washed  "him,  anointed,  rubbed,  dressed  him,  put  on  his 
shoes,  or  even  lifted  him  up,  title  is  acquired. 

Said  R.  Simeon :  There  cannot  be  a  better  hazakah  than  lift- 
ing up,  as  this  act  gives  title  to  one  in  everything.  How  is  this 
to  be  understood  ?  The  Boraitha  says  that  if  the  slave  has  lifted 
up  his  master  it  gives  title  to  the  master ;  but  if  vice  versa,  it 
does  not.  And  to  this  answered  R.  Simeon  :  There  is  no  better 
hazakah  than  lifting  up,  which  means  that  this  gives  title  even  if 
the  slave  was  lifted  up  by  the  master.  R.  Jeremiah  of  Bira  in 
the  name  of  R.  Jehudah  said :  If  the  estate  of  the  proselyte  in 
question  was  already  ploughed  and  one  put  radishes  in  the  fur- 
rows, it  is  not  considered  a  hazakah,  because  at  the  time  he  put 
the  radishes  in,  without  covering,  there  was  no  improvement  at 
all ;  and  even  if  in  a  few  days  afterwards  these  begin  to  grow,  it 
is  not  considered  as  if  done  by  him,  but  from  itself. 

Samuel  said  :  If  one  peels  off  the  bark  of  a  tree,  if  he  has 
done  it  for  the  improvement  of  the  tree,  title  is  acquired ;  and  if 
for  food  for  his  cattle,  it  is  not.  [And  how  can  we  know  this  ? 
If  he  peels  off  the  tree  from  both  sides,  it  is  supposed  that  he 
does  it  for  the  improvement  of  the  tree  ;  but  if  from  one  side,  it 
is  for  his  cattle.]  He  said  again  :  If  one  cleans  off  the  estate  in 
question,  if  he  has  done  this  for  the  improvement  of  the  earth, 
title  is  given  ;  but  if  he  has  done  so  with  the  idea  of  using  it  for 
fuel,  it  does  not.  [And  how  shall  this  be  proved  ?  If  he  takes 
off  all  there  is,  it  is  supposed  that  he  does  it  for  the  improvement ; 
but  if  he  chooses  the  larger  pieces  and  leaves  the  smaller  ones,  it 
is  to  be  assumed  that  he  docs  it  for  the  purpose  of  using  it  for 
fuel] 

And  the  same  said  again  :  If  one  engaged  himself  to  level 
ground  for  the  sake  of  the  earth  itself,  it  gives  him  title ;  and  if 


TRACT    BABA   BATHRA   (LAST    GATE).  131 

with  the  intention  of  placing  a  temporary  barn  there,  it  does  not. 
[And  how  shall  this  be  proved  ?  If,  for  instance,  he  takes  off  the 
superfluous  earth  from  the  hills  and  puts  it  in  the  hollows  (and  so 
he  has  done  with  all  of  them),  it  is  to  be  supposed  that  he  does 
it  for  the  improvement  of  the  ground ;  but  if  he  only  made  the 
hills  lower,  and  only  at  the  edges  of  the  hollows  he  filled  these  in, 
then  it  is  to  be  supposed  that  he  does  so  with  the  intention  of 
putting  up  a  temporary  barn.]  He  also  said  :  If  he  opens  a 
stream  of  water  to  this  ground,  if  he  does  so  for  the  improvement 
of  the  earth,  title  is  given  to  him  ;  but  if  with  the  idea  of  catch- 
ing fish,  it  does  not.  [And  how  shall  this  be  proved  ?  If  he 
opens  both  sides  of  the  estate,  one  for  the  purpose  of  letting  the 
water  enter  and  the  other  side  for  letting  it  out,  it  is  supposed 
that  he  does  so  with  the  intention  of  catching  fish ;  and  if  he 
open  only  one  side,  so  that  the  water  may  enter,  it  is  assumed 
that  he  does  so  for  the  improvement  of  the  earth.]  There  was  a 
woman  who  peeled  off  on  one  side  trees  of  the  estate  of  the  pro- 
selyte in  question  for  thirteen  years.  Another  man  came  who 
dug  a  little  under  the  tree  ;  and  the  case  came  before  Levi,  accord- 
ing to  others  before  Mar  Uqba,  and  he  left  it  in  the  possession 
of  the  latter.  And  this  woman  came  and  protested,  and  he  said 
to  her :  What  can  I  do  for  you,  in  that  you  have  not  made  the 
hazakah  as  it  ought  to  be  ? 

There  was  a  woman  who  had  made  a  partition  to  that  which 
was  already  there  in  the  estate  of  a  proselyte.  Another  man, 
however,  came  and  digged  in  the  estate  ;  and  when  the  case  came 
before  R.  Na'hman,  he  left  the  estate  with  the  latter.  And  this 
woman  came  and  caused  a  disturbance,  and  R.  Na'hman  answered: 
What  can  I  do  for  you,  as  you  have  not  made  a  hazakah  as 
people  ought  to  do  ?  * 

Rabh  said  :  If  one  paints  in  the  estate  in  question  a  likeness 
of  an  animal  or  a  bird,  title  is  acquired.  So  Rabh  himself  made 
such  a  hazakah  at  a  garden  which  was  near  his  college,  left  by  a 
proselyte  who  died  without  children. 

It  was  taught :  A  field  which  was  marked  out  by  boundaries 
on  four  sides,  said  R.  Huna  in  the  name  of  Rabh  :  As  soon  as  one 
has  dug  one  spadeful  of  earth  he  acquires  title  to  the  whole  field. 
Samuel,  however,  maintains  that  he  acquires  only  the  place  he 
has  dug.  And  what  is  the  law  concerning  a  field  not  marked  off 
by  boundaries?  Said  R.  Papa:  If  he  digs  in  it  as  much  as  a 
team  of  oxen  in  one  furrow  and  the  return. 

*  This  paragraph  is  transferred  from  Erubhin,  25(7,  as  this  is  the  proper  place. 


132  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Samuel  :  The  estate  of  idola- 
ters, if  sold  to  an  Israelite  and  the  latter  has  not  made  a  haza- 
kah  on  it,  it  is  like  a  desert ;  and  the  first  who  makes  a  hazakah 
on  it  acquires  title.  Why  so?  Because  the  idolater,  as  soon  as 
he  gets  the  money,  cuts  himself  off  from  it ;  and  as  the  Israelite 
has  not  as  yet  acquired  title  to  it  until  he  gets  the  bill  of  sale,  it 
is  therefore  like  a  desert,  and  every  one  may  tiy  to  take  posses- 
sion of  it  (returning  the  money  to  the  buyer).  (The  commentator 
Rasbham,  however,  maintains  that  from  the  expression,  "  It  is 
like  a  desert,"  it  is  to  be  understood  that  the  occupant  has  to  pay 
nothing,  and  the  buyer  has  to  sue  the  seller  if  he  can  do  so.)  Said 
Abayi  to  R.  Joseph  :  Is  it  possible  that  Samuel  should  say  so? 
Did  he  not  declare  elsewhere  that  the  law  of  the  government 
must  be  respected  as  the  law  of  the  Torah,  and  the  government 
dictates  that  title  is  acquired  only  by  a  deed,  and  not  otherwise? 
Hence  the  other  one  who  has  made  a  hazakah  is  also  without 
the  deed  needed.  And  he  answered  :  I  know  it  only  from  ex- 
perience. As  it  happened  in  the  village  Dura  of  the  shepherds, 
an  Israelite  bought  an  estate  of  idolaters,  and  the  Israelite  came 
and  dug  a  little  on  this  estate,  and, when  the  case  came  before  R. 
Jehudah,  he  left  it  in  the  hand  of  the  latter.  And  Abayi  re- 
joined :  Do  you  want  to  compare  any  other  cases  to  the  case  of 
the  village  Dura  ?  There  was  a  pagus  with  estates  hidden  from 
the  government,  and  the  possessors  of  those  estates  did  not  pay 
taxes  for  it.  And  the  government  dictates  that  he  who  pays 
the  taxes  owns  the  land. 

R.  Huna  bought  an  estate  from  an  idolater  and  another  Isra- 
elite digged  in  it ;  and  the  case  came  before  R.  Na'hman,  and  he 
left  it  in  the  hands  of  the  latter.  Said  Huna  to  him  :  The  basis 
of  your  decision  is  what  Samuel  said,  that  the  estates  which  are 
sold  by  an  idolater  are  like  a  desert,  and  who  takes  possession 
thereof  acquires  title.  Why  should  the  master  not  decide  in 
accordance  with  the  other  saying  of  Samuel,  that  the  digger 
acquires  title  only  at  the  place  where  he  dug  ?  And  he  answered  : 
In  this  respect  I  hold  in  accordance  with  Rabh,  in  whose  name  R. 
Huna  said  :  As  soon  as  one  has  digged  one  spadeful  he  acquires 
title  to  the  whole  of  it. 

R.  Huna  b.  Abbin  sent  a  message  :  If  an  Israelite  buys  a  field 
from  a  Gentile,  and  another  Israelite  comes  and  takes  possession 
of  it  (before  the  bill  of  sale  reaches  the  buyer),  the  court  has  no 
right  to  take  it  away  from  the  latter.  And  to  this,  R.  Abbin,  R. 
Elaa,  and  all  our  masters  at  that  time  agree. 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  133 

Rabba  said  :  I  was  told  by  the  Exilarch  Uqban  b.  Nehemiah, 
in  the  name  of  Samuel,  the  following  three  things :  {a)  That  the 
law  of  the  government  should  be  respected  as  the  law  of  the 
Torah.  {b)  The  hazakah  of  the  Persians  is  no  less  than  forty 
years,  {c)  And  the  rich  farmers  who  buy  land  from  the  officers 
of  the  government  for  the  taxes  which  were  not  paid  by  the 
previous  owners,  the  sales  are  valid.  But  this  is  only  when  the 
owners  owe  to  the  government  taxes.  But  if  the  land  was  taken 
for  poll  taxes,  the  sale  is  not  valid.  Why  so  ?  Because  the  poll 
taxes  rest  upon  their  heads,  not  upon  their  land.  R.  Huna  b. 
Jehoshua,  however,  maintains  that  even  the  barley  in  the  pitcher 
is  mortgaged  to  the  poll  taxes  {i.e.,  when  the  land  was  taken  away 
for  poll  taxes,  they  have  a  right  to  sell  it).  Said  R.  Ashi :  Huna 
b.  Nathan  told  me  that  Amemar  objected  to  the  decision  of  R. 
Huna,  saying  :  According  to  this  theory,  the  rule  prescribed  by  the 
Scripture,  that  a  first-born  shall  take  two  parts  in  the  inheritance, 
should  be  abolished,  as  if  the  whole  estate  is  encumbered  to  the 
government  for  poll  taxes,  the  bequeathed  estate  will  be  fit  only 
in  the  future  for  inheritance,  but  not  as  yet.  And  there  is  a  rule 
that  the  first-born  has  a  right  to  take  a  share  only  in  that  which 
is  already  fit.  And  he  answered  :  Why  this  objection  to  poll 
taxes  ?  The  same  can  be  raised  concerning  land  taxes  also.  But 
to  this  it  can  be  answered  that  he  speaks  of  when  one  dies  after 
he  paid  the  land  taxes,  and  the  same  can  be  said  with  poll. 

R.  Ashi  said  :  Huna  b.  Nathan  told  me  :  I  asked  the  scribe 
of  Rabha,  and  he  told  me  that  the  Halakha  prevails  in  accord- 
ance with  R.  Huna  b.  R.  Jehoshua.  (Says  the  Gemara :)  In 
reality  it  is  not  so,  as  the  scribe  of  Rabha  says  this  only  to  approve 
his  acts.  R.  Ashi  said  again  that  an  anpa^to^  (a  man  who  goes 
idle)  must  bear  the  taxes  of  the  city.  But  this  is  said  only  when 
he  was  freed  by  some  of  his  friends  in  that  city  who  told  the 
chief  that  he  owned  nothing  from  which  to  pay  and  he  let  him  go  ; 
but  if  the  chief  himself  or  the  officers  who  were  appointed  by  the 
government  do  not  Hke  to  collect  from  him  because  he  is  idle 
(although  they  collect  his  share  from  the  other  townsmen),  it  is  to 
be  considered  as  a  divine  help  to  him  and  he  must  not  be  troubled 
again.  R.  Ashi  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  :  A  boundary  or 
a  tree  which  is  found  between  two  estates  of  a  proselyte  is  con- 
sidered an  intervention  concerning  hazakah,  but  not  concerning 
corner  tithe  and  concerning  defilement.  When  Rabbin  came 
from  Palestine,  he  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  :  It  is  con- 
sidered an  intervention  concerning  the  two  last-mentioned  as  well. 


134  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

But  how  is  the  law  if  there  was  no  boundary  and  no  tree,  and 
nevertheless  they  were  separated  ?  R.  Mrinus  in  the  name  of  R. 
Johanan  explained  that  he  acquires  title  to  the  whole  field  which 
is  called  after  his  name.  What  does  this  mean  ?  Said  R.  Papa  : 
If  people  call  it  the  field  which  the  proselyte  used  to  water  from 
his  valley.  R.  Aha  b.  Ivya  was  sitting  before  R.  Assi,  and  said 
in  the  name  of  R.  Assi  b.  Hanina  that  a  hazuba  makes  an  inter- 
vention in  the  estate  of  a  proselyte.  What  is  a  hazuba  ?  Said  R. 
Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh  :  This  was  a  marktby  which  Joshua 
marked  the  land  M^hich  he  divided  among  the  tribes  of  Israel. 
He  says  again  in  the  name  of  the  same  authority  :  Joshua  did 
not  count  but  the  cities  which  were  placed  on  the  boundaries  {i.e., 
the  cities  which  are  enumerated  in  the  Book  of  Joshua),  He  said 
again  in  the  name  of  Samuel :  All  that  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be 
He,  had  shown  to  Moses  from  the  land  of  Israel  was  subject  to 
tithes.  (It  means  that  from  the  products  growing  in  those  places 
tithes  must  be  separated  biblically.)  What  does  it  mean  to  ex- 
clude? The  land  of  the  Kenites,  Kenizzites,  and  Kadmonites 
[Gen.  XV.  19]. 

MISHNA  IV. :  If  there  are  two  witnesses  that  the  occupant 
has  consumed  the  products  of  a  field  three  years,  and  after  in- 
vestigation  it  is  found  that  they  were  collusive,  the  witnesses 
have  to  pay  the  whole  value  of  the  products  from  the  last  three 
years  to  the  plaintiff.  If,  however,  two  have  testified  for  the 
first  year  and  two  others  for  the  second  year,  and  still  two  others 
for  the  third  year  (and  all  of  them  had  witnessed  falsely),  the 
payment  mentioned  above  must  be  divided  among  them,  of 
which  each  of  the  parties  has  to  pay  a  third. 

If  there  were  three  brothers  witnessing,  and  one  stranger 
testified  the  same  as  they  had,  they  may  be  considered  as  three 
parties  of  witnesses — i.e.,  one  of  the  brothers  said  :  I  am  aware 
that  the  defendant  has  occupied  this  property  the  first  year ;  the 
second :  I  am  aware  that  he  has  occupied  it  the  second  year ; 
and  the  third  testified  for  the  third  year.  If  the  stranger,  how- 
ever, says :  I  testify  that  the  defendant  has  occupied  it  all  the 
three  years,  his  testimony  is  counted  to  each  of  them,  so  that  for 
each  year  there  are  two  witnesses.  If.,  however,  the  testimony 
was  found  to  be  collusive,  they  ought  to  be  considered  as  one 
party  of  witnesses,  and  the  brothers  have  to  pay  the  whole  claim. 

GEiMARA  :  Our  Mishna  is  not  in  accordance  with  R. 
Aqiba  of  the  following  Boraitha :  R.  Jose  said  :  When  Abbah 
'Halaftha  went    to  study  the  Torah   from   R.  Johanan  b,  Muri, 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  135 

according  to  others  the  reverse  was  the  case,  he  questioned 
him  :  How  is  it  if  one  has  occupied  a  property  the  first  year  in 
the  presence  of  two  witnesses,  and  the  second  in  the  presence  of 
two  others,  and  the  third  in  the  presence  of  still  two  others, 
should  this  be  considered  a  hazakah,  or  not  ?  And  he  answered  : 
It  is.  Rejoined  the  former :  I  am  of  the  same  opinion ;  but  R. 
Aqiba  opposes,  as  he  used  to  say :  It  is  written  [Deut.  xix.  15]  : 
"  A  case  be  established,"  A  case^  but  not  half  a  case  {i.e.,  as 
each  party  testifies  only  for  one  year,  they  are  testifying  to  only 
half  a  case ;  but  not  the  whole  case). 

R.  Jehudah  said  :  If  one  of  the  witnesses  testifies  that  the 
occupant  has  occupied  the  estate  all  the  three  years  with  wheat, 
and  the  other  testifies  with  barley,  it  constitutes  a  hazakah.  R. 
Na'hman  opposed :  According  to  this  theory,  if  one  testifies 
that  he  has  occupied  it  the  first,  third,  and  fifth  years,  and  the 
other  for  the  second,  fourth,  and  sixth,  should  this  also  be  con- 
sidered a  hazakah  ?  Answered  R.  Jehudah  :  What  comparison 
is  this?  In  your  case  one  testifies  for  this  year,  and  the  other 
for  other  years ;  but  in  my  case  both  are  testifying  for  the  very 
same  year.  The  difference  is  only  concerning  barley  and  wheat, 
about  which  people  are  not  used  to  be  too  particular. 

"  If  there  were  three  brothers^'  etc.  There  was  a  promissory 
note  signed  by  two  witnesses,  of  whom  one  died,  and  his  brother 
with  a  stranger  comes  before  the  court  to  testify  that  the  signa- 
ture of  the  deceased  is  a  right  one.  Rabhina  was  about  to  say 
that  this  case  was  familar  to  our  Mishna,  which  states  that  three 
brothers  and  one  stranger  are  counted  legal  witnesses.  Said  R. 
Ashi  to  him :  There  is  no  similarity  at  all.  In  the  case  of  the 
Mishna  half  the  amount  of  the  claim  is  collected,  because  of  the 
testimony  of  the  brothers,  and  the  other  half  because  of  the 
testimony  of  the  stranger.  In  this  case,  however,  the  brothers' 
testimony  collects  three-quarters  of  the  whole  amount  {i.e.,  the 
signature  of  the  deceased  witness  gives  the  right  to  collect  half 
the  amount.  Now  when  this  brother  came  to  testify  concerning 
the  signature,  his  testimony  is  for  a  quarter  of  the  whole  amount, 
and  the  testimony  of  the  stranger  who  was  with  him  for  the  other 
quarter.  Hence  three-quarters  of  the  whole  amount  are  to  be 
collected  by  the  testimony  of  the  brothers,  which  is  not  legal. 

MISHNA  V.  :  There  is  a  difference  in  usage  of  articles  :  In 
some  cases  the  law  of  hazakah  applies,  and  in  some  it  does 
not.  E.g.,  if  one  used  to  keep  his  cattle  in  the  yard  of  his  neigh- 
bor, or  a  stove,  oven,  or  handmill,  or  raised  there  hens,   or  he 


136  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

kept  there  his  manure,  it  is  not  considered  a  hazakah.  However, 
if  he  has  made  a  partition  ten  spans  high  for  his  cattle,  or  for  the 
other  articles  mentioned  above,  or  he  has  kept  his  hens  in  his 
neighbor's  house,  or  has  dug  three  spans  in  the  ground  of  his 
neighbor  for  his  manure,  or  he  has  made  a  heap  of  it  three  spans 
high  on  the  same  ground,  it  is  a  hazakah. 

GEMARA  :  Why  should  the  law  differ  in  the  latter  part 
from  the  first  part  (is  it  not  a  fact  that  the  owner  of  the  yard 
would  protest  when  a  stranger  kept  his  cattle  therein  without  any 
right)  ?  Said  Ula :  It  is  because  of  the  following  rule :  Usage 
which  does  not  give  title  to  the  property  of  a  deceased  child- 
less proselyte,  it  also  does  not  give  it  to  the  property  of  one's 
neighbor ;  and  usage  which  does  give  title  in  that  case,  gives 
also  title  in  the  latter  case. 

R.  Shesheth  opposed  :  Does  this  rule  always  hold  good  ?  Is 
it  not  a  fact  that  ploughing,  which  is  not  considered  a  hazakah 
concerning  the  estate  of  one's  neighbor,  gives  title  when  it  is  done 
on  the  estate  of  a  proselyte  ?  On  the  other  hand,  usage  of  fruit, 
which  is  considered  concerning  a  neighbor's  estate,  does  not  give 
title  to  the  estate  of  a  proselyte.  "  Therefore,"  said  R.  Na'hman 
in  the  name  of  Rabba  b.  Abuhu,  "  the  Mishna  treats  of  a  yard 
belonging  to  partners,  who  usually  are  not  particular  if  one  of 
them  keeps  his  cattle  there ;  but  they  are,  if  one  separates  his 
cattle  by  a  partition."  Is  that  so?  Have  we  not  learned  in  a 
Mishna  :  If  partners  have  vowed  not  to  derive  any  benefit  from 
one  another  they  must  not  enter  in  their  yard,  as  by  entering 
one  derives  benefit  from  the  share  of  his  neighbor.  Therefore 
R.  Na'hman's  above  saying  was  concerning  a  rear  yard,  in  which 
usually  one  is  not  particular  if  his  neighbor  leaves  there  his  cattle. 
But  concerning  a  partition,  they  would  be  particular.  R.  Papa, 
however,  maintains  that  both  our  Mishna  and  the  cited  one  speak 
about  a  yard  belonging  to  partners ;  but  some  are  particular  con- 
cerning leaving  cattle  and  some  not.  Therefore,  in  a  case  that 
may  lead  to  an  offence,  as  in  the  cited  Mishna,  it  is  decided 
rigorously  ;  and  concerning  money  matters  it  is  decided  leniently. 
Rabhina,  however,  maintains  that  partners  are  never  particular 
with  one  another.  And  concerning  the  case  of  deriving  benefit, 
the  Mishna  which  treats  about  vows  is  in  accordance  with  R. 
Eliezer,  who  holds  that  even  a  little  gift  that  is  usually  presented 
by  the  storekeepers  to  their  customers  is  prohibited  to  him  who 
has  vowed  not  to  derive  any  benefit  from  his  storekeeper,  which 
the  rabbis  allow. 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  137 

R.  Johanan  in  the  name  of  R.  Bnaha  said :  Everything  (which 
is  not  in  the  agreement)  may  partners  prevent  each  other  from 
doing  in  the  yard  belonging  to  them  except  washing,  because  the 
daughters  of  Israel  must  not  be  left  to  disgrace  themselves  by 
washing  at  the  bank  of  the  river  (as  they  must  stand  there  with 
bare  feet).  And  Hyya  b.  Aba  said  :  It  is  written  [Is.  xxxiii.  15]: 
"  And  shutteth  his  eyes  against  looking  on  evil,"  meaning  him 
who  does  not  look  upon  women  when  they  are  occupied  in  wash- 
ing. How  is  this  to  be  understood  ?  If  there  is  another  way  to 
pass,  and  one  passes  by  that  way  for  the  purpose  of  looking,  then 
he  is  wicked ;  and  if  there  is  no  other  way,  what  can  he  do,  as  he 
is  compelled  to  pass  them  ?  It  means  even  in  the  latter  case,  and 
nevertheless  one  must  manage  not  to  look  upon  them. 

R.  Johanan  questioned  R.  Bnaha*:  What  is  meant  by  a  shirt 
of  a  scholar?  And  the  answer  was :  It  covers  the  whole  body, 
so  that  no  part  of  it  may  be  seen.  And  what  is  meant  by  a  gar- 
ment of  a  scholar?  If  it  covers  the  shirt  so  that  a  fragment  of  it 
not  more  than  a  span  should  be  seen.  What  is  meant  by  a  table 
of  a  scholar  ?  That  the  table-cloth  covers  two  parts  of  the  table, 
and  the  third  part  is  uncovered  to  place  there  plates  and  herbs, 
and  the  ring  of  the  table  (they  used  to  have  a  ring  in  order  to 
keep  together  the  table-cloth,  to  hang  it  up  after  the  meal),  and 
the  ring  should  be  outside.  [But  have  we  not  learned  in  a  Bo- 
raitha  that  the  ring  must  be  inside?  This  presents  no  difficulty, 
as  one  Boraitha  speaks  of  when  there  is  a  child  sitting  by  the 
table — then  it  must  be  inside ;  or  it  speaks  of  the  night  meal, 
when  it  is  better  it  should  be  inside,  so  that  the  servant  should 
not  touch  it  while  it  is  dim  ;  and  another  Boraitha  speaks  of  a 
day  meal,  without  a  child.]  And  that  of  a  common  man  looks 
like  a  tarn,  as  the  dishes  are  placed  around  and  the  bread  is  in  the 
middle.  What  is  meant  by  a  bed  of  a  scholar?  If  under  it  nothing 
is  to  be  found  but  sandals  in  summer-time  and  shoes  in  the  rainy 
season  ;  and  the  bed  of  a  commoner  looks  like  a  treasure  of  vilis 
wherein  you  may  find  everything? 

R.  Bnaha  used  to  mark  caves  of  the  dead  (for  the  purpose  of 
defilement).  When  he  came  to  the  cave  of  Abraham  (the  Patri- 
arch), he  found  Eliezer  his  servant  standing  outside,  and  to  the 
question.  What  is  Abraham  doing  now,  he  answered  :  He  sleeps 
in  the  arms  of  Sarah,  and  she  looks  on  his  head.  And  Bnaha 
asked   Eliezer  to  beg  permission   for  him  to  enter.     He  said  to 

*  This  is  placed  here  in  text  because  all  that  was  said  and  done  by  Bnaha  should 
be  together. 


138  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Abraham  :  Bnaha  is  waiting  at  the  door.  Said  Abraham  :  Let 
him  come  in  :  it  is  known  that  the  evil  spirit  does  not  remain  in 
our  world.  Bnaha  then  entered,  took  the  measure  of  the  cave, 
and  went  out ;  when  he  arrived,  however,  at  the  cave  of  Adam 
the  first,  he  heard  a  heavenly  voice  saying:  Thou  hast  seen  the 
image  of  Adam ;  but  in  the  face  of  Adam  himself,  who  is  the 
work  of  (the  Lord),  thou  hast  no  right  to  look.  And  to  the  pro- 
test :  I  need  to  mark  the  measure  of  the  cave,  he  was  answered  : 
The  measure  of  the  outside  of  Abraham's  cave  equals  the  inside 
of  Adam's. 

Said  R.  Bnaha :  I  have  seen  the  heels  of  Adam  and  they  ap- 
peared  to  me  as  the  circumference  of  the  sun.  Beside  the  face 
of  Sarah,  that  of  every  one  else  looks  like  the  face  of  an  ape  to 
that  of  a  man.  And  Sarah's  to  that  of  Eve  is  also  like  the  face 
of  an  ape  to  that  of  a  man ;  and  Eve's  to  that  of  Adam  himself 
is  also  like  the  face  of  an  ape  to  that  of  a  man.  The  beauty  of 
R.  Kahana  is  similar  to  that  of  R.  Abuhu,  etc.  (See  Middle 
Gate,  pp.  212,  213.) 

There  was  a  Magus  who  used  to  dig  after  the  dead  for  the 
purpose  of  taking  away  their  shrouds.  When  he  arrived  at  the 
cave  of  R.  Tubi  b.  Mathna,  he  grasped  him  by  the  beard,  and 
Abayi  came  and  requested  him  to  leave  him,  and  he  did  so.  The 
next  year  the  Magus  came  again  to  this  cave,  and  Tubi  again 
grasped  him  by  the  beard,  and  Abayi's  request  was  refused,  until 
scissors  were  brought  and  the  beard  was  cut  off. 

There  was  a  man  who  said  while  dying :  I  bequeath  one 
barrel  of  earth  to  one  son,  a  barrel  of  bones  to  another,  and  one 
barrel  of  down  to  the  third.  And  they  did  not  understand  what 
he  meant,  and  came  with  this  question  to  R.  Bnaha.  And  he 
asked  them  if  they  possessed  estates.  They  said  :  Yea.  Have 
you  cattle?  Yea.  Have  you  also  vestes-stragula  (blankets, 
quilts,  mattresses)?  Yea.  Then  he  said  :  If  so,  this  is  what  your 
father  has  bequeathed  to  you  (it  means,  one  shall  have  the  estate, 
one  the  cattle,  etc.). 

There  was  a  man  who  heard  his  wife  saying  to  her  daughter : 
Why  are  you  not  careful  in  your  unlawful  acts?  I  have  ten  sons, 
and  only  one  is  from  your  father.  When  he  was  dying  he  said  : 
I  bequeath  all  my  properties  to  one  son  (as  he  did  not  know 
which  one  was  his).  And  as  they  did  not  know  to  which  of  the 
sons,  the  case  came  to  R.  Bnaha,  who  advised  them  to  go  and 
knock  on  the  father's  grave  until  he  should  come  and  explain 
whom  he  meant.     Nine  of  the  sons  did  so,  but  the  one  who  was 


TRACT    BABA    BATKRA    (LAST    GATE).  139 

his  did  not.  Then  R.  Bnaha  decided  that  all  the  estates  should 
be  given  to  this  one.  His  brothers  then  denounced  him  to  the 
government,  saying :  There  is  one  man  among  the  Jews  who  col- 
lects money  without  witnesses  and  without  any  evidence.  And 
he  was  arrested.  His  wife  then  came  complaining :  I  had  a  slave. 
People  came  and  cut  off  his  beard,  removed  his  skin,  consumed 
his  flesh,  filled  the  skin  with  water,  which  they  gave  to  drink  to 
their  comrades,  and  they  did  not  give  me  any  of  the  money  or 
some  other  equivalent  for  it.  The  officers  did  not  understand 
her,  and  decided  to  question  the  vise  of  the  Jews  ;  perhaps  he 
would  understand  what  it  meant.  They  did  so,  and  he  answered  : 
She  is  complaining  about  a  leather-bag  (it  means  she  had  a  buck : 
they  stole  it  from  her,  killed  it,  consumed  the  meat,  and  from  the 
skin  they  made  a  leather-bag  for  water  to  drink  from.  They 
said  then  :  Because  he  is  so  wise,  he  shall  sit  at  the  court  and 
judge.  He  saw,  then,  that  it  was  written  on  the  afxfioKarf :  A 
judge  who  is  summoned  cannot  be  named  a  judge.  Said  R. 
Bnaha  to  them  :  If  so,  then  any  one  may  come  and  summon  the 
judge  (though  he  had  never  any  business  with  him).  Should  he 
be  no  longer  qualified  to  be  a  judge  it  ought  to  be  thus  :  A 
judge  who  is  found  liable  in  the  court,  so  that  money  is  to  be 
collected  from  him,  is  no  longer  qualified  as  a  judge.  And  they 
thus  corrected  this:  However,  the  sage  of  Judea  maintains  that 
a  judge  from  whom  money  is  collected  by  a  judgment  is  not 
considered  a  judge. 

He  saw  again  that  there  was  written  at  the  head  of  each  dead, 
I,  blood,  am  the  cause ;  and  at  the  head  of  each  life,  I,  wine,  am 
the  cause.  And  he  said  to  them :  According  to  this,  if  one  falls 
from  the  roof  or  a  tree  and  dies,  does  also  the  blood  kill  him  ; 
and  also,  if  you  see  one  dying,  give  him  wine  and  he  will  revive  ? 
It  ought  to  be  written  thus :  In  the  head  of  every  sickness,  I, 
blood,  am  the  cause  ;  and  in  the  head  of  every  medicine,  I,  wine, 
am  the  cause.  And  they  corrected  thus :  In  the  head  of  all  sick- 
ness, I,  blood,  am  the  cause  ;  in  the  head  of  all  medicines,  I,  wine, 
am  the  cause  {i.e.,  if  the  man  would  use  wine  in  accordance  to 
his  health  he  would  never  come  to  sickness,  and  only  in  places 
where  there  is  no  wine  is  medicine  needed — i.e.,  because  there  is 
no  wine,  sickness  is  frequent).  On  the  gates  of  the  city  of  Kaput- 
kaya  was  written :  Anipak,  Anbag,  and  Antell  are  all  of  equal 
measure  (so  that  there  is  no  claim  that  if  one  bought  an  Anpak 
and  received  an  Anbag,  etc.).  These  measures  are  equal  to  a 
quarter  of  a  biblical  lug  (said  the  Gemara). 


I40  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

MISHNA  V/.:  The  law  of  hazakah  does  not  apply  to  mov- 
able pipes  attached  to  the  roof-gutters  (drains),  but  does  apply- 
to  the  places  of  them  and  also  to  spouts.  It  does  not  apply  to 
an  Egyptian  ladder  or  to  an  Egyptian  window ;  but  to  both  of 
Tyre  it  does  apply.  What  is  to  be  considered  an  Egyptian  win- 
dow ?  If  a  human  head  cannot  enter  in  it.  R.  Jehudah,  how- 
ever, maintains  :  If  it  has  a  frame,  although  a  human  head  cannot 
enter  it,  the  law  of  hazakah  applies. 

GEMARA :  How  is  it  to  be  understood  that  the  pipes  have 
no  hazakah,  and  the  place  has?  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name 
of  Samuel :  It  means  thus  :  The  movable  pipes  have  no  hazakah 
at  one  side  {i.e.,  if  the  pipes  were  fixed  that  water  should  come 
out;  e.g-.,  on  the  north  side  of  his  neighbor's  yard,  so  that  if  the 
owner  of  the  yard  needs  this  place  he  has  a  right  to  compel  the 
owner  of  the  house  to  remove  them  to  the  south  side).  How- 
ever, he  has  no  right,  after  long  usage  undisturbed,  to  insist  that 
the  gutters  or  pipes  be  entirely  removed.  R.  Hanina,  however, 
explained  the  Mishna  thus  :  The  law  of  hazakah  does  not  apply 
to  pipes  in  the  respect  that,  if  they  are  too  long,  the  owner  of  the 
yard  may  insist  that  they  be  shortened ;  the  place,  however,  has 
a  hazakah,  so  that  if  the  owner  claim  that  they  shall  be  removed, 
he  is  not  to  be  listened  to.  And  R.  Jeremiah  b.  Abba  said :  It 
means  if  the  owner  of  the  yard  wishes  to  build  something  be- 
neath, he  may ;  but  he  has  no  right  to  insist  on  their  removal. 
An  objection  was  raised  from  our  Mishna,  which  states  that  the 
law  of  hazakah  applies  to  a  spout,  which  is  correct  in  the  two 
first  explanations  (as  a  spout,  which  is  more  stationary  than  a 
pipe,  must  not  be  removed  or  shortened) ;  but  in  the  third,  that 
one  may  build  beneath,  to  what  purpose  does  the  Mishna  teach 
it  ?  Why  not  ?  What  harm  can  be  done  with  this  to  the  spout  ? 
The  Mishna  speaks  of  when  the  spout  was  surrounded  by  a  stone 
building,  so  that  the  owner  of  it  may  claim  that  the  new  build- 
ing would  weaken  the  stone  building  surrounded  by  the  spout. 

R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said  :  Drains  which  dis- 
charge water  in  the  yard  of  one's  neighbor,  and  the  owner  of  the 
roof  wants  to  stop  it — the  owner  of  the  yard  has  a  right  to  pre- 
vent him,  claiming,  As  you  have  acquired  title  to  my  yard  for 
discharging  the  water  of  your  roof,  so  I  have  acquired  title  to 
that  water  of  your  roof. 

It  was  taught  :  R.  Oshyah  said :  He  may  prevent.  And  R. 
Hamma  said:  He  may  not.  He  then  went  .and  questioned  R. 
Bissa  (his   father,  who  was  also  the  grandfather  of  R.  Oshyah) 


TRACT    BABA   BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  141 

and  he  decided  that  he  might  prevent.  Rammi  b.  Hamma  then 
applied  to  him  the  verse  [Eccl.  iv.  12]  :  "  And  a  threefold  cord 
cannot  quickly  be  torn  asunder,"  which  means  R.  Oshyah,  the 
son  of  R.  Hamma,  the  son  of  R.  Bissa. 

"  To  an  Egyptian  ladder. ''  What  is  called  an  Egyptian  lad- 
der ?     Said  the  school  of  R.  Yanai :  Such  as  has  not  four  steps. 

'' An  Egptian  zvindow^'  etc.  Why  does  the  Mishna  explain 
what  an  Egyptian  window  means,  and  did  not  so  do  concerning 
an  Egyptian  ladder  ?  Because  to  the  latter  it  had  to  state  the 
opinion  of  R.  Jehudah. 

R.  Zera  said  :  The  window  in  question  has  a  hazakah  when  it 
is  placed  lower  than  four  ells  from  the  ground  only  ;  and  one 
can  prevent  his  neighbor  from  opening  such  in  a  building  which 
adjoins  his  yard  only  when  it  exceeds  four  ells.  R.  Ailah,  how- 
ever, maintains  that  the  same  is  the  case  even  when  it  is  higher 
than  four  ells.  Shall  we  assume  that  the  point  of  their  difference 
is,  if  the  court  has  to  coerce  one  who  acts  after  the  manner  of  the 
Sodomites  {e.g.,  if  one  derives  benefit  from  a  thing  which  does 
not  harm  any  one,  the  preventer  is  equalled  to  the  Sodomites, 
and  the  question  is.  Must  the  court  overrule  such  a  preventer  or 
must  it  be  left  to  the  conscience  of  this  man,  and  the  court  has 
nothing  to  do  with  it  ?).  Nay  ;  all  agree  that  in  such  a  case  the 
court  shall  overrule  the  preventer.  Here,  however,  it  is  different, 
as  the  neighbor  might  say  :  It  might  happen  that  you  would  take 
a  footstool,  stand  upon  it  to  look  in  at  my  window,  and  then  will 
be  visible  to  you  what  is  going  on  in  my  house. 

There  was  one  who  wanted  to  open  a  window  higher  than 
four  ells  to  his  neighbor's  yard,  and  the  case  came  before  R.  Ami  ; 
and  he  referred  it  to  R.  Abba  b.  Mamal,  who  decided  in  accord- 
ance with  R.  Ailah.  Said  Samuel :  To  a  window  which  is  to  be 
opened  for  light,  whatever  size  it  may  be,  the  law  of  hazakah 
applies. 

MISHNA  VII.  :  To  an  enclosure  the  size  of  a  span  in  width 
hazakah  applies ;  and  if  one  came  to  make  it  in  his  building 
which  faces  his  neighbor's  yard,  the  latter  has  a  right  to  protest. 
To  less  than  the  above  size  hazakah  does  not  apply,  and  also  no 
protest  can  be  made  against  it. 

GEMARA :  R.  Assi,  or  R.  Jacob  in  the  name  of  R.  Manni, 
said :  If  he  has  made  a  hazakah  with  the  enclosure  which  was 
the  width  of  one  span,  he  has  made  it  for  four  spans.  How  is 
this  to  be  understood?  Said  Abayi :  He  means  to  say  that  if 
the  enclosure  one  span  wide  has  the  length  of  four  spans,  he  may 


142  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

increase  it  to  four  spans  square  (as  his  neighbor  does  not  dis- 
turb him  from  taking  the  space  of  four  spans  in  the  length,  it 
would  be  the  same  as  if  it  were  square). 

"■  Less  than  that  size  no  hazakah,''  etc.  Said  R.  Huna:  This 
is  said  concerning  the  owner  of  the  roof  only,  but  the  owner  of 
the  yard  may  prevent  his  neighbor  from  making  an  enclosure 
even  less  than  a  span.  R.  Jehudah,  however,  maintains  that 
neither  of  them  can  prevent  the  other.  Shall  we  assume  that 
the  point  of  their  difference  is,  if  harm  done  by  looking  is  con- 
sidered damage,  or  not  ?  Nay ;  all  agree  that  it  is  considered. 
But  in  this  case  such  an  enclosure  not  being  fit  for  use,  except 
to  hang  something  in  it,  is  different,  as  one  may  say :  I  can  do  it 
without  looking  into  your  property.  The  one,  however,  who 
forbids  this,  maintains  that  his  neighbor  may  claim  :  It  can  hap- 
pen that  while  hanging  his  things  in  this  enclosure  he  will  be 
frightened,  and  even  unwillingly  his  face  will  be  turned  to  my 
property,  and  will  see  what  I  should  not  like. 

MISHNA  VIII. :  One  must  not  open  windows  to  the  yard 
even  when  he  is  a  partner  in  it  (without  the  consent  of  the  other 
partner).  If  he  bought  a  house  in  another  yard,  he  must  not 
open  a  door  to  that  yard  in  which  he  is  a  partner.  If  he  built  an 
attic  upon  his  house,  he  must  not  make  its  entrance  in  the  yard 
in  question.  He  may,  however,  divide  a  chamber  inside  of  his 
house,  and  build  an  upper  chamber  upon  it,  so  that  the  entrance 
should  be  through  his  house. 

GEMARA:  Why  does  the  Mishna  treat  about  a  yard  of 
partners?  Is  it  not  the  same  with  the  yard  of  one's  neighbor, 
without  any  partnership?  It  means  to  say  not  only  to  one's 
neighbor's  yard  is  he  not  allowed,  but  even  to  that  in  which  he 
is  a  partner.  Lest  one  say :  As  his  partner  has  to  hide  from  him 
(such  things  as  he  would  not  like  his  partner  to  see)  in  the  yard 
anyhow,  it  does  not  matter  if  he  should  open  a  window  to  that 
part  which  belongs  to  him;  it  comes  to  teach  us  that  his  partner 
may  say :  Until  now  I  had  to  hide  myself  from  you  in  the  yard 
only ;  but  by  opening  a  window  from  which  my  house  will  be 
visible,  I  shall  have  to  hide  myself  in  my  house  also. 

The  rabbis  taught :  It  happened  with  one  who  opened  his 
windows  to  a  partner's  yard,  and  he  came  before  R.  Ishmael  b. 
R.  Jose,  who  said  to  him  :  My  son,  thy  hazakah  is  valid,  as  thy 
partner  has  not  protested.  When  this  case  came  up  again  before 
R.  Hyya,  he  said  :  You  have  troubled  yourself  to  open  it,  trouble 
yourself  to  close  it.     Said  R.  Na'hman :   If  one  of  the  partners 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  143 

built  a  wall  against  the  window  which  was  opened  to  the  yard  in 
question  and  was  not  disturbed  by  the  owner  of  it,  it  is  considered 
a  hazakah  immediately ;  as  one  would  not  tolerate  that  his  light 
should  be  shut  off  in  his  face  and  be  silent. 

"7/"  he  bought  a  house  .  .  .  he  must  not  open  a  door  to 
that  yard,''  etc.  Why  so?  Because  he  increases  walkers  through 
the  yard  (and  this  would  be  disagreeable  for  the  inhabitants  of 
it,  as  their  work  in  the  yard  would  be  visible  to  people,  which 
they  would  not  like).  But  if  so,  why  then,  does  the  latter  part 
allow  to  build  an  upper  chamber  inside  of  one's  house  ?  Does  he 
also  not  increase  walkers  with  this?  Said  R.  Huna :  It  means 
that  he  may  divide  his  chamber  horizontally,  so  that  it  should 
serve  for  an  attic ;  but  not  to  enlarge  the  building. 

MISHNA  IX. :  One  must  not  open  in  a  yard  belonging  to 
partners  a  door  or  window  opposite  his  partner's  door  or  window  : 
If  there  is  a  small  one,  he  must  not  enlarge  it ;  and  if  there  is  one 
door,  he  must  not  make  two  of  it.  All  this,  however,  may  be 
done  to  the  public  street, 

GEMARA :  Whence  do  we  deduce  all  this ?  Said  R.  Johanan : 
From  [Num.  xxiv.  2]  :  "  When  he  saw  Israel  encamped  according 
to  their  tribes."  What  did  he  see  ?  That  their  doors  were  not 
exactly  opposite  each  other.  And  then  he  said  :  They  are 
worthy  that  the  Shekhinah  should  rest  upon  them. 

"  He  must  not  enlarge  it!'  Rammi  b.  Hamma  was  about  to 
say,  e.g.,  that  if  it  was  the  size  of  four  ells,  he  must  not  make  it 
eight ;  because  he  takes  four  ells  space  from  the  yard.  But  if  it 
was  two  ells,  he  might  enlarge  it  to  four.  Said  Rabha  to  him : 
His  partner  may  claim  :  When  you  had  a  small  door,  I  could  hide 
myself  from  you,  which  is  not  the  case  with  a  large  one. 

'^  If  there  was  one!'  etc.  Rami  b.  Hamma  was  about  to  say, 
when  the  door  was  four  ells  wide,  he  must  not  divide  it  into  two 
each ;  but  if  it  was  eight  ells  wide,  he  might  divide  it  in  two — each 
of  four.  Said  Rabha  to  him  :  His  partner  may  claim  when  he 
had  one  door:  I  could  hide  myself  from  you,  which  is  not  the 
case  when  you  will  have  two. 

"  To  the  public  street."  Because  one  may  say  :  It  does  not 
matter  that  my  door  is  open  just  opposite  yours,  as  you  must 
anyhow  hide  from  the  passers-by. 

MISHNA  X. :  One  must  not  make  a  hole  in  public  ground  ; 
viz.,  pits,  excavations,  or  caves.  R.  Eliezer,  however,  permits 
this,  if  the  surface  of  the  ground  remains  strong  enough  to  bear 
wagons  loaded  with  stones. 


144  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

One  must  not  build  enclosures  or  balconies  on  the  space  be- 
longing to  public  ground  ;  he  may  do  so,  however,  on  the  space 
of  his  property  which  faces  the  public  ground.  If  one  bought  a 
yard  and  there  were  enclosures  or  balconies  upon  public  ground, 
it  constitutes  a  hazakah  and  may  remain  so. 

GEMARA  :  Why  do  not  the  rabbis  permit  the  same  as  R. 
Eliezer  illustrated  ?  Because  it  may  happen  that  it  shall  break 
suddenly  and  will  cause  damage, 

"■Enclosures,''  etc.  There  were  enclosures  from  R,  Ammi's 
property  facing  an  alley,  and  there  was  also  another  man  whose 
property  was  facing  the  public  ground  ;  and  the  public  com- 
plained, and  the  case  came  before  R.  Ammi,  who  decided  that 
the  enclosure  should  be  cut  off.  Said  the  defendant :  Does  not 
the  master's  enclosures  face  the  alley?  And  he  answered:  My 
enclosures  are  facing  an  alley,  the  inhabitants  of  which  have  re- 
linquished their  right  in  my  behalf ;  yours,  however,  are  facing 
the  public  ground.  Who  can  relinquish  to  you  ?  R.  Yanai  had 
a  tree  bending  over  public  ground,  and  another  man  had  the 
same,  of  which  the  public  complained  (that  a  mounted  camel 
could  not  pass).  And  defendant  came  before  R.  Yanai,  w'ho 
told  him  to  leave  him  to-day  and  come  to-morrow.  On  that 
night  R.  Yanai  ordered  the  removal  of  his  own  tree.  And  when 
the  defendant  came  in  the  morning,  he  told  him  to  remove  it. 
And  to  the  question  :  Does  not  the  master  himself  possess  such  ? 
he  answered :  Go  and  see  if  mine  is  not  removed ;  if  not,  yours 
can  remain ;  but  if  it  is,  you  must  do  the  same.  But  why  did 
not  R.  Yanai  remove  it  before  that  case  came  before  him  ?  He 
previously  thought  that  the  passers-by  were  pleased  to  sit  in  its 
shadow ;  but  when  he  saw  that  they  were  complaining,  he  ordered 
the  removal.  And  why  did  he  not  order  the  defendant  to  re- 
move the  tree  before  removing  his  ?  Because  of  what  was  said 
by  Resh  Lakish  (Middle  Gate,  p.  287):  Correct  first  thyself,  and 
then  others. 

''In  the  space  of  his  property y  The  schoolmen  propounded 
a  question  :  If  one  left  space  for  it,  but  has  not  yet  made  the  en- 
closure, may  he  do  it  afterward,  or  not  ?  According  to  R.  Johanan 
he  may ;  according  to  Resh  Lakish  he  may  not.  Said  R.  Jacob 
to  R.  Jeremiah  b.  Thalipha  :  I  am  able  to  explain  to  you  that  there 
was  no  difference  between  the  two  rabbis  just  mentioned,  con- 
cerning the  enclosures  in  question,  as  both  agree  that  they  may 
be  made  even  at  any  time.  In  what  they  do  differ  is,  if  one 
wants  to  replace  the  walls  of  his  property  in  their  former  posi- 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  145 

tion,  and  their  decision  was  just  the  reverse.  According  to  R. 
Johanan  he  may  not ;  because  of  that  which  was  said  by  R. 
Jehudah  (above,  p.  35):  A  path  which  is  used  by  the  majority 
must  not  be  destroyed.  And  according  to  Resh  Lakish  he  may  ; 
because  even  then  there  is  still  place  for  passing. 

"7/"  one  bought  a  yard,''  etc.  Said  R.  Huna:  If  the  wall  of 
the  yard  in  question  fall,  he  may  rebuild  it  with  the  former  en- 
closures. An  objection  from  the  following  Tosephtha  :  One  must 
not  paint  his  house  with  whitewash  or  any  other  colored  dye  at 
this  time  to  show  that  he  is  mourning  for  the  destroyed  Temple. 
However,  if  he  bought  such  already  painted,  he  may  keep  it  as 
it  is ;  but  if  it  falls,  he  must  not  furnish  the  same  painting  to  the 
ones  rebuilt.  (Hence  the  refurnishing  is  prohibited.)  You  can- 
not oppose  mourning  for  the  Temple  to  common  money  matters. 

The  rabbis  taught  :  When  the  second  Temple  was  destroyed, 
many  of  Israel  separated  themselves  from  eating  meat  and  drink- 
ing wine.  And  R.  Joshua  approached  them,  saying:  My  chil- 
dren, why  do  you  not  eat  meat  and  drink  wine  ?  They  replied  : 
Should  we  eat  meat  of  which  sacrifices  were  brought,  or  drink 
wine  which  was  offered  at  the  altar?  Said  R.  Joshua  to  them  : 
If  so,  let  us  not  eat  bread,  as  the  meal-offering  is  also  abolished  ? 
Then  we  can  live  on  fruit  ?  They  replied  :  But  was  there  not 
also  the  firstfruit  offering?  And  was  it  not  also  the  custom  to 
put  water  on  the  altar,  which  no  longer  exists?  Let  us,  then, 
cease  the  use  of  fruit,  and  of  water  also.  And  they  were  silent. 
Then  said  R.  Joshua  to  them  :  My  children,  come  and  listen  to 
me.  It  would  be  wrong  not  to  mourn  at  all,  because  the  evil 
decree  is  executed.  But  to  mourn  too  much  is  also  impossible, 
as  there  must  not  be  decreed  a  prohibition  for  the  congregation 
which  they  could  not  stand,  as  it  is  written  [Mai.  iii.  9  *].  And 
therefore  the  sages  said  :  When  one  paints  his  house,  he  shall 
leave  part  unpainted  as  a  sign  of  mourning.  [How  much  ? 
Said  Rab  Joseph:  An  ell  square.  And  Rab  Hisda  said:  This 
must  be  opposite  the  door.]  One  may  prepare  all  that  he 
needs  for  his  meal,  leaving  out  some  little  things  as  a  sign  of 
mourning.  And  the  same  is  the  case  with  a  woman:  she  may 
dress  with  all  her  ornaments,  leaving  out  some  of  the  unimpor- 
tant for  that  purpose.  As  it  is  written  [Ps.  cxxxvii.  5]:  "If 
I  forget  thee,  O  Jerusalem,  may  my  right  hand  forget.     May 

*  Leaser's  translation  does  not  correspond  at.      The  commentators  try  to  explain 
it,  but  do  not  succeed.     We  have,  therefore,  omitted  the  translation  of  the  verse, 
leaving,  however,  the  reference  to  it. 
10 


146  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

my  tongue  cleave  to  my  palate  if  I  do  not  remember  thee;  if 
I  recall  not  Jerusalem  at  the  head  of  my  joy."  What  is  meant 
by  at  the  head  of  my  joy  ?  Said  R.  Itz'hak:  It  is  the  custom 
to  put  some  ashes  on  the  head  of  the  groom  on  the  day  of  mar- 
riage. And  R.  Papa  said  to  Abayi :  They  used  to  place  it  on 
their  foreheads  at  the  place  of  phylacteries,  as  it  is  written  [Is. 
Ixi.  3]:  "To  grant  unto  the  mourners  of  Zion — to  give  unto 
them  ornament,"  etc.  And  every  one  who  is  mourning  for 
Jerusalem  will  be  rewarded  by  seeing  her  joy.  As  it  is  written 
[ibid.  Ixvi.  10]:  "  Be  highly  glad  with  her,  all  ye  that  mourn 
for  her." 

There  is  a  Boraitha:  R.  Ishmael  b.  Elisha  said:  From  that 
day  when  the  Temple  was  destroyed  it  would  be  only  right  we 
should  take  upon  ourselves  not  to  eat  meat  and  not  to  drink 
wine ;  but  such  a  thing  must  not  be  decreed,  which  the  majority 
of  the  congregation  could  not  endure.  And  from  the  day  that 
the  Roman  government  put  upon  us  evil  decrees,  prohibiting  to 
us  the  Torah  and  its  commandments,  did  not  allow  us  to  cir- 
cumcise and  redeem  our  children,  it  would  be  only  right  we 
should  take  upon  ourselves  not  to  marry  and  have  children,  so 
that  the  children  of  Abraham  would  be  destroyed  by  themselves; 
but  leave  Israel,  let  them  do  as  they  please,  as  it  is  better  they 
should  sin  unintentionally  than  intentionally  (as  if  this  should 
be  ordered,  they  would  certainly  not  observe  it). 


CHAPTER   IV. 

RULES  AND  REGULATIONS  CONCERNING  UNCONDITIONAL  AND  CON- 
DITIONAL SALES  OR  GIFTS  OF  BUILDINGS,  HOUSES,  AND  PALACES  : 
WHAT  IS  AND  WHAT  IS  NOT  INCLUDED  ;  AND  ALSO  CONCERNING 
YARDS,  BATH-HOUSES,  AND  PRESS-HOUSES  FOR  OIL  AND  WINE. 
SALES    OF    WHOLE    CITIES,    VALLEYS,    FIELDS,    WELLS,    ETC. 

MISHNA  /.  :  If  one  sells  a  house  unconditionally,  the  yeziah 
which  is  upon  it  is  not  included  in  the  sale,  even  when  it  is  open 
to  the  house,  neither  the  chamber  which  is  inside,  nor  the  roof 
if  it  has  a  railing  ten  spans  high.  R.  Jehudah,  however,  main- 
tains that  if  it  has  the  appearance  of  a  door,  although  it  is  less 
than  ten  spans  high,  it  is  not  included  in  the  sale. 

GEMARA:  What  doQS,  yeziah  mean  ?  Here  (in  this  college) 
it  was  explained  as  ocsro — gable.*  R.  Joseph,  however,  main- 
tains that  it  is  an  upper  floor  with  windows.  According  to  the 
first  explanation,  the  latter  one,  which  is  more  valuable,  it  is 
self-evident  is  not  included  in  the  sale.  But  according  to  the 
latter  explanation  the  first  one  is  included.  R.  Joseph  taught  • 
We  find  two  additional  names  to  yeziah,  mentioned  in  I  Kings, 
vi.  5  :  "  And  he  built  on  the  wall  of  the  house  a  gallery  (yeziah) 
round  about."  It  is  also  named  Zelah  [Ezek.  xli.  6]:  "And 
the  side  chambers — Zelah,''  etc.  And  also  To  [ibid.  xl.  7]: 
"  And  every  cell  {To),"  etc.  The  last  is  also  used  in  Midoth, 
IV.  6:  Said  Mar  Zutra:  All  that  is  mentioned  above  applies 
only  when  it  contains  four  ells.  Said  Rabhina  to  him :  Ac- 
cording to  your  theory,  the  succeeding  Mishna,  which  states: 
"  Not  the  well  (it  does  not  matter  whether  the  well  is  merely 
dug  in  the  ground  or  is  surrounded  by  stone  walls),  although  it 
was  written  in  the  bill  of  sale  that  he  sold  to  him  all  that  was 
in  the  height  and  depth,  it  is  not  included  in  the  sale  " — means 
also  that  if  it  does  not  contain  four  ells  it  is  (and  this  is  certainly 
not  so)  ?     What  comparison  is  this  ?     The  use  of  a  well  is  not 

*  The  commentator  Rashbam  explains  it  as  a  shelter  in  the  rear ;  and  R.  Joseph's 
explanation  means  the  same,  but  with  windows.  Our  explanation,  however,  is  in 
accordance  with  SchOnhak's  Dictionary,  which  seems  to  us  to  be  the  proper  one. 

147 


148  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

the  same  as  the  use  of  a  house,  while  the  use  of  an  upper  floor 
is  identical  with  the  use  of  the  house;  if  it  contains  four  ells,  it 
is  of  value  and  it  is  not  included  in  the  sale;  but  if  less  than 
this,  it  is  not  of  value. 

*'  Neither  the  inner  chamber.''  Was  it  necessary  to  teach 
this  ?  If  the  yeziah  is  not  included,  is  it  not  self-evident  that 
much  less  is  the  chamber  ?  It  speaks  of  a  case  in  which  in  the 
bill  of  sale  were  noted  some  boundaries  of  the  inner  chamber, 
and  lest  one  say  that  in  such  a  case  it  is  included,  the  Mishna 
comes  to  teach  us  that  it  is  not  so.  And  this  is  in  accordance 
with  R.  Na'hman,  who  said  in  the  name  of  Rabba  b.  Abuhu 
that  if  one  sells  a  house  depending  on  a  palace,  although  in  the 
bill  of  sale  were  noted  the  boundaries  of  the  palace,  the  buyer 
irannot  claim  that  he  sold  him  the  whole  palace,  as  it  is  to  be 
considered  that  the  boundaries  were  noted  only  to  make  known 
where  the  palace  was  situated.  (Says  the  Gemara:)  Let  us  see 
how  was  the  case.  If  people  make  a  distinction  in  calling  the 
one  a  house  and  the  other  a  palace,  and  the  bill  of  sale  specifies 
a  house,  then  certainly  he  sold  him  a  house,  not  a  palace.  And 
if  people  call  the  whole  building  a  house  (not  a  palace),  then  he 
certainly  sold  him  the  house  with  all  its  contents  ?  It  speaks  of 
a  case  in  which  the  majority  calls  it  a  house,  but  the  minority 
names  it  palace.  One  might  say  that  he  sold  him  the  entire 
building.  R,  Na'hman  comes  to  teach  us  that  in  such  a  case  he 
ought  to  write  in  the  bill  of  sale:  "The  entire  building  is  sold  to 
you,  and  I  reserve  nothing  for  myself. ' '  And  because  this  was  not 
mentioned,  it  is  to  be  considered  that  he  sold  him  only  one  house 
of  this  building  and  the  remainder  he  left  for  himself.  The  same 
said  again  in  the  name  of  the  same  authority:  If  one  sold  a  field 
situated  in  a  valley,  although  in  the  bill  of  sale  are  specified  the 
boundaries  of  the  valley,  he  sold  him  only  the  field  and  not  the 
entire  valley,  as  the  specifying  is  to  be  considered  necessary  in 
defining  the  situation  of  the  valley  only.  Let  us  see  how  was 
the  case  ?  If  people  make  a  distinction  in  calling  the  one  field 
and  the  other  valley,  and  the  bill  of  sale  speicfies  a  field,  then 
certainly  he  sold  him  a  field  (etc.,  etc.,  as  above).  And  the 
answer  is  also  the  same  as  above,  that  because  it  was  not  writ- 
ten in  the  bill  of  sale  that  he  had  reserved  nothing  for  himself, 
he  sold  him  only  one  field.  And  both  cases  were  necessary  for 
R.  Na'hman  to  teach;  since,  if  he  had  taught  only  of  a  house, 
one  might  say  that  there  is  a  difference  between  using  a  palace 
and  using  a  house.     But  in  case  of  a  valley  of  which  the  use  of 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  149 

every  part  is  equal,  the  entire  valley  is  sold.  And  if  he  would 
teach  from  a  valley  only,  one  might  say  that  because  there  was 
no  necessity  for  the  seller  to  specify  which  field  of  the  valley  he 
sold  him,  as  every  part  of  it  is  used  for  one  and  the  same  pur- 
pose, therefore  it  is  considered  that  he  sold  him  only  one  field. 
But  in  case  of  a  palace  the  chambers  of  which  are  for  different 
uses,  it  ought  to  be  specified  in  the  bill  of  sale  which  house  was 
sold ;  and  as  it  was  not,  the  entire  building  was  sold :  therefore 
both  were  necessary. 

According  to  whom  is  the  statement  of  R.  Mari,  the  son  of 
Samuel's  daughter,  in  the  name  of  Abayi,  that  if  one  sells  to 
his  neighbor  a  property,  he  must  write  in  the  bill  of  sale:  "  I 
reserve  nothing  of  it  for  myself"?  In  accordance  with  R. 
Na'hman's  statement  in  the  name  of  Rabba  b.  Abuhu. 

There  was  one  who  said  to  his  buyer:  I  sell  to  you  the 
ground  of  B.  Hyya.  And  there  were  two  pieces  of  ground  that 
were  called  B.  Hyya  (and  the  buyer  claimed  that  both  were  sold 
to  him,  while  the  seller  insisted  that  only  one  was  sold  to  him). 
When  the  case  came  before  R.  Ashi,  he  decided  that  only  one 
was  sold  (as  the  seller  said  to  him,  "  I  sell  you  the  ground  " — 
singular,  and  not  the  "  grounds");  and  if  even  the  seller  had 
said  the  grounds,  then  it  would  signify  two.  And  if  such  were 
three,  the  third  would  not  be  sold  unless  he  should  say:  "  I  sell 
you  all  the  ground  I  possess."  And  even  then,  if  the  seller 
possessed,  besides  this  ground,  orchards  and  vineyards,  the  lat- 
ter would  not  be  sold.  And  if  the  seller  should  say,  "  I  sell 
you  my  zihra  "  (which  means  in  the  Persian  language  fields  and 
plants),  then  the  orchards  and  vineyards  belong  to  the  buyer, 
but  not  houses  nor  slaves,  unless  he  said,  "  I  sell  to  you  all 
properties  I  possess." 

If  in  a  bill  of  sale  for  real  estate  there  was  specified  a  boun- 
dary of  a  length  of  one  hundred  ells  on  the  west  side,  and  of  the 
length  of  fifty  ells  only  on  the  east  side  ?  Said  Rabh:  Title  is 
given  to  the  buyer  corresponding  with  the  shorter  boundary 
only  {i.e.,  that  the  specifying  of  the  one  hundred  ells  on  the 
west  side  is  to  be  considered  only  a  mark  to  identify  the  begin- 
ning of  his  field). 

Said  both  R.  Kahana  and  R.  Assi  to  Rabh:  Let  it  be  con- 
sidered that  he  sold  to  him  a  triangle  [i.e.,  that  it  should  be 
measured  from  the  end  of  fifty  on  the  east  side  to  the  one  hun- 
dred of  the  west  side,  and  the  other  estate  should  not  belong  to 
him).     And  Rabh  did  not  answer.     (Says  the  Gemara:)  If  the 


I50  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

adjoining  fields  on  the  west  side  belonged  to  A  and  B,  and  on 
the  east  side  to  C  and  D,  and  in  the  bill  of  sale  was  specified 
from  the  boundary  of  A  and  B  to  the  boundary  of  D  on  the 
other  side,  then  even  Rabh  admits  that  it  is  to  be  considered  he 
sold  him  a  triangle,  as  the  boundary  of  C  was  not  mentioned. 

If  E  owns  a  field  adjoining  A's  field  from  east  to  west,  and 
B's  from  north  to  south,  and  he  comes  to  sell  it,  he  must  write 
in  the  bill  of  sale:  "  I  sell  you  the  field  adjoining  A's  field  from 
both  sides,  and  also  B's  from  both  sides."  And  it  is  not  suffi- 
cient that  he  should  write:  "  My  field,  which  is  between  A's 
and  B's  fields,"  as  then  he  could  claim  that  he  sold  to  him  the 
half  of  it  only  {i.e.,  a  half  on  west  side  adjoining  A's  and  a  half 
on  south  side  adjoining  B's,  and  the  remainder  he  reserved  for 
himself).  If  in  the  bill  of  sale  the  three  boundaries  of  the  field 
were  specified,  but  not  the  fourth,  according  to  Rabh  title  is 
given  to  the  buyer  from  all  three  boundaries,  except  a  bed  of 
the  fourth,  which  was  not  specified  in  the  bill  of  sale.  Samuel, 
however,  maintains  that  title  is  given  to  the  whole,  even  to  the 
fourth.  But  R.  Assi  maintains  that  title  is  given  to  the  buyer 
for  one  bed  all  over  this  field  only.  And  the  reason  of  his 
theory  is  that  he  agrees  with  Rabh,  that  from  the  fact  that  the 
fourth  boundary  is  omitted  in  the  bill  of  sale,  it  is  to  be  assumed 
that  he  reserved  it  for  himself.  And  this  being  reserved  for 
himself,  so  was  his  intention  with  the  other  boundaries,  and  the 
specifying  of  the  three  was  meant  to  give  him  title  to  one  bed 
all  over  the  field. 

Said  Rabha:  The  Halakha  prevails  that  the  buyer  acquires 
title  to  the  whole  field,  even  to  the  fourth  boundary,  provided 
it  is  contained  in  the  three  boundaries;  but  if  it  is  not  contained, 
title  is  not  given.  And  even  if  it  is,  but  it  contains  inoculated 
trees,  or  the  fourth  boundary  was  of  a  size  in  which  nine  kabs 
of  grain  could  be  sown,  it  is  excluded. 

Let  us  see!  Rabha  states  that  if  there  were  inoculated  trees, 
or  it  were  nine  kabs,  title  is  not  given,  from  which  it  is  to  be 
understood  that  if  it  is  not  contained  properly,  title  is  not  given 
to  the  fourth  boundary,  although  it  does  not  contain  the  above. 
We  may  infer  from  this  statement  that  although  he  has  not 
written  in  the  bill  of  sale  that  he  reserved  nothing  for  himself 
(as  is  said  above  that  so  it  must  be  written  in  a  bill  of  sale),  it  is 
supposed  that  he  reserved  nothing  for  himself,  and  also  that  the 
Halakha  prevails  that  if  it  is  contained  title  is  given,  provided 
there  were  not  trees,  and  the  size  was  less  than  nine  kabs.      But 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  151 

if  there  were,  title  is  not  acquired.  However,  it  was  taught  in 
the  name  of  Rabha  just  the  reverse;  and  therefore,  if  such  a 
case  came  before  a  court,  we  must  leave  it  to  the  consideration 
of  the  judges. 

Rabba  said :  If  A  and  B  were  partners  in  a  field,  and  A  sold 
his  share  to  C,  stating  in  the  bill  of  sale,  "  I  sell  you  the  half  I 
have  of  this  ground,"  then  all  his  share  is  sold,  and  he  has 
reserved  nothing  for  himself.  If,  however,  it  states,  "  Half  of 
the  ground  I  possess,"  then  he  sold  him  only  a  quarter  of  the 
whole  field,  which  is  half  of  his.  And  to  the  question  of  Abayi : 
"  Why  should  we  make  a  difference  between  the  two  state- 
ments (is  it  only  because  in  the  first  statement  the '  ground  '  was 
mentioned  later,  and  in  the  other  statement  the  expression 
'ground'  is  mentioned  first)?"  Rabba  kept  silent.  Said 
Abayi :  I  thought  that  because  he  was  silent  he  receded  from 
his  statement,  and  accepted  my  opinion ;  but  it  was  not  so,  as 
I  have  seen  the  bills  of  sale  which  were  approved  by  the  court 
of  my  master,  and  in  reference  to  the  expression,  "  I  sell  the 
half  which  I  possess  in  the  ground,"  the  court  has  marked  in  its 
approval  "  that  a  half  of  the  whole  field  is  sold  to  so  and  so," 
and  in  reference  to  the  bill  of  sale  which  was  written,  "  A  half 
of  the  ground  I  possess,"  the  court's  approval  was:  "  A  quarter 
of  the  whole  field  is  sold  to  so  and  so."  Rabha  said  again:  If 
two  partners  have  divided  their  estate,  and  one  of  them  says  to 
another,  "  I  sell  you  my  share  in  the  ground,"  and  he  shows 
him  the  boundary,  that  it  begins  from  the  ground  belonging  to 
his  partner  after  the  division,  then  all  his  share  is  sold.  But  if 
the  same  shows  him  the  boundary  of  his  estate  not  from  the 
place  which  belongs  after  the  division  to  his  former  partner,  but 
from  the  opposite  side,  then  a  field  of  nine  kabs  from  his  share 
is  sold  to  him,  but  not  his  entire  share.*  And  also  here  Abayi 
questioned  him  the  reason  of  the  different  decisions,  at  which 
he  again  kept  silent ;  and  the  schoolmen  who  heard  this  thought 
that  he  had  receded  from  his  statement,  and  in  both  cases  his 
whole  share  was  sold.  In  reality,  however,  it  was  not  so.  As 
R.  Youmar  b.  Shlamjah  said:  Abayi  explained  to  me  that  there 
is  no  difference  whether  he  has  shown  him  the  boundary  from 
which  he  has  divided,  or  the  opposite  side.     If  he  has  added 

*  In  the  text  are  only  a  few  words,  their  meaning  being  very  obscure.  The  com- 
mentators Rashbam  and  Rabana  Gershom  differ  in  their  explanation,  and  in  the  first 
saying  of  Rabba  we  have  adopted  Rashbam's  interpretation,  and  in  the  second 
Gershom's,  though  both  are  very  complicated  and  difficult. 


152  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

to  his  statement,  "  and  all  of  its  boundaries,"  then  his  entire 
share  is  sold;  but  if  he  has  added  nothing,  then  a  field  of  nine 
kabs  only  is  sold. 

It  is  certain  that,  if  a  sick  man  said  in  his  last  will,  "  So  and 
so  shall  share  my  properties,"  he  meant  the  exact  half;  but 
how  is  it  if  he  said,  "  Give  a  share  to  so  and  so  in  my  proper- 
ties "  ?  Said  Rabhina  b.  Kisi:  Come  and  hear  the  following 
Boraitha:  If  one  said,  "  Give  a  share  to  so  and  so  in  my  well  " 
— said  Symmachos:  No  less  than  a  quarter  is  meant  (as  it  is  cer- 
tain that  he  wanted  to  help  him  out  in  watering  his  fields,  and 
the  rabbis  suppose  that  a  quarter  of  the  well  suflfices  for  this 
purpose).  If,  however,  he  said :  "  Give  a  share  from  my  well  in 
his  barrels  "  (in  which  the  above  purpose  cannot  be  supposed), 
not  less  than  an  eighth  part  is  meant.  (This  Rashbam  ex- 
plains as  implying  that  he  wished  to  help  him  out  in  watering 
his  cattle.  R.  Gershom  maintains :  So  was  then  the  custom 
— to  fill  their  barrels  with  water,  for  the  purpose  of  using  it 
the  whole  year.)  And  if  it  was  said:  "  Give  him  a  share  from 
my  well  for  his  pots,"  not  less  than  a  twelfth  part  is  considered; 
and  if  it  was  said:  "  Give  him  for  his  small  vessels,"  then  a  six- 
teenth part  *  of  the  well  is  meant. 

Hence  we  see  that,  according  to  Symmachos,  if  he  said, 
"  Give  him  a  share  in  my  well,"  without  any  additional  re- 
marks, a  quarter  is  meant ;  and  the  same  is  the  case  when  he 
said,  "  Give  him  a  share  in  my  properties." 

The  rabbis  taught :  A  Levite  who  sold  a  field  to  an  Israelite 
with  the  stipulation  that  the  tithes  of  the  field  (which  the  Isra- 
elite must  separate)  should  belong  to  him,  this  stipulation  is 
valid;  and  if  the  stipulation  was,  "  to  me  and  to  my  children," 
if  the  Levite  dies,  the  tithe  must  be  given  to  his  children.  But 
if  he  said,  "  So  long  as  the  field  may  be  in  your  hands,"  then, 
if  the  Israelite  should  sell  it  and  rebuy  the  same  thereafter,  the 
Levite  has  nothing  more  to  do  with  it.  But  why  should  the 
tithe  belong  to  him  ?  Is  there  not  a  rule  that  one  cannot  grant 
a  thing  which  is  not  as  yet  in  existence,  and  as  the  products  of 
the  field  have  not  as  yet  come  forth,  consequently  the  tithe  is 
not  in  existence  ?     The  above  stipulation  is  to  be  considered  as 

*  The  reason  is,  according  to  Rashbam,  that  all  those  quantities  were  known  for 
said  purposes.  However,  he  himself  was  not  satisfied  with  this  exposition,  and  ex- 
plained it  in  accordance  with  Symmachos's  theory  elsewhere,  that  all  doubtful  moneys 
or  properties  must  be  divided.  But  it  is  very  complicated,  and  therefore  we  leave  its 
interpretation  to  the  reader. 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST    GATE).  153 

if  he  should  say:  The  space  in  which  the  first  tithe  shall  grow 
I  reserve  for  myself. 

Said  Resh  Lakish:  From  this  we  may  infer  that  if  one  sold 
a  house  with  the  stipulation,  "  The  upper  diceta  (chamber)  shall 
remain  for  him,"  the  stipulation  is  valid.  To  what  purpose  does 
he  state  so  ?  Is  it  not  said  above  that  even  without  any  stipu- 
lation, if  it  is  not  plainly  stated  in  the  bill  of  sale  that  this  diczta 
goes  with  the  house,  it  remains  the  owner's  ?  Said  R.  Zebid : 
Resh  Lakish  meant  to  teach  that  if  there  was  such  a  stipulation, 
then  the  owner  has  a  right  to  make  enclosures  in  the  attic,  fa- 
cing the  yard  of  this  house,  and  the  buyer  cannot  prevent  him, 
as  the  stipulation  was  for  this  purpose.  And  R.  Papa  main- 
tains: If  the  seller  wants  to  build  another  attic  upon  that  one, 
he  may  do  so. 

(Says  the  Gemara:)  According  to  R.  Zebid's  explanation,  it 
is  correct,  what  Resh  Lakish  said:  "  From  this  we  may  infer," 
as  the  above  Boraitha  teaches  that  his  stipulation  is  to  be  con- 
sidered as  reserving  space  for  himself.  So  also  with  the  stipu- 
lation as  to  the  attic — he  reserves  space  for  himself  to  make 
enclosures,  etc.  But  according  to  R.  Papa's  explanation,  how 
can  this  case  be  inferred  from  that  Boraitha  ?  This  difficulty 
remains. 

R.  Dimi  of  Nahardea  said:  If  one  sells  a  house  with  the  in- 
tention of  giving  title  to  all  its  contents,  although  the  bill  of  sale 
states  from  the  bottom  to  the  top,  title  is  not  acquired  in  wells, 
etc.  (if  such  there  were),  unless  he  writes:  "  You  shall  acquire 
title  from  the  depth  of  the  earth  to  the  height  of  the  sky." 
And  it  is  not  sufficient  to  state:  "  From  the  depth  to  the  height 
of  this  house  is  sold  to  you  "  ;  and  the  reason  is  because  the  last 
expression  gives  title  only  to  that  which  is  beneath  the  house, 
like  a  cellar,  basement,  etc.,  and  also  to  the  roof  and  the  attic, 
but  it  does  not  suffice  for  the  well  and  its  stone  walls,  which  are 
not  included  in  the  same.  However,  the  expression,  "  from 
the  depth  of  the  earth  to  the  height  of  the  sky,"  includes  them 
also,  and  other  caves  which  may  be  found  beneath  the  house, 
and  also  above  the  roof,  if  there  is  an  attic  that  measures  more 
than  ten  spans  in  height  and  width. 

The  schoolmen*  propounded  a  question:  If  one  has  sold  or 
presented  the  house  to  one  man  and  the  dicEta  to  another,  should 
it  be  considered  a  reservation,  or,  because  he  sold  the  di(Bta  to 


Transferred  from  \\%b  in  this  Tract. 


154  THE    BABVLUNIAX    TALMUD. 

some  one  else,  he  reserved  nothing  for  himself,  and  it  cannot  be 
considered  ?  And  if  you  will  say  that  such  is  not  considered, 
how  is  it  if  the  seller  said:  "  The  house  is  sold  to  you  except 
the  dicBta  "  (but  did  not  say,  "  I  reserved  it  for  myself  ")  ?  Said 
Rabha  in  the  name  of  R.  Na'hman :  If  we  conclude  that  the 
house  to  one  and  the  diata  to  another  is  not  considered  a  reser- 
vation, the  latter  case,  besides  the  diceta,  is  to  be  considered, 
and  it  will  be  in  accordance  with  R.  Zebid,  who  said  above  that 
if  he  likes  to  make  enclosures,  etc.,  he  may  do  so.  Hence  we 
see  that,  as  he  left  the  diceta  for  himself  so  he  did  with  the  space 
of  the  enclosures. 

MISHNA  //. :  Title  is  not  given  to  a  well,  or  to  the  stone 
wall  thereof  (if  this  was  not  plainly  mentioned  in  the  bill  of  sale 
of  the  house),  although  there  is  mentioned  that  he  sold  him  the 
depth  and  the  height;  however,  the  seller  must  buy  a  way  to 
the  well  from  the  new  owner  of  the  house.  So  is  the  decree  of 
R.  Aqiba.  The  sages,  however,  maintain  that  it  is  not  neces- 
sary; and  R.  Aqiba  admits  that  it  is  not  necessary  for  the  seller 
to  buy  a  way  if  he  said  plainly  that  the  well  in  question  was  not 
included  in  the  sale.  If,  however,  the  house  was  sold  to  some 
one,  and  the  well  to  some  one  else,  it  is  not  necessary  for  the 
latter  to  buy  the  way  to  it  from  the  owner  of  the  house,  accord- 
ing to  R.  Aqiba;  but  according  to  the  sages  it  is. 

GEMARA:  Rabhina  was  sitting  and  deliberating  the  dififi- 
culty  of  the  expressions  in  the  Mishna,  Bour  (well)  and  Duth 
(a  well  surrounded  by  a  stone  wall).  Are  they  not  for  the  same 
purpose  ?  Why,  then,  was  it  needed  to  mention  both  ?  Said 
Rabha  to  him :  Come  and  hear  the  following  Boraitha :  Bour  and 
Duth  both  meant  a  well  which  is  dug  in  the  ground,  but  the  first 
means  solid  ground  without  a  wall  for  containing  water,  and  the 
second  means  surrounded  by  a  stone  wall.  (Hence  if  the  Mishna 
should  mention  the  first,  one  might  say  that  because  it  is  not 
surrounded  by  masonry  it  is  not  included  in  the  sale;  but  the 
second,  which  is  a  kind  of  building,  is  included.  And  if  the 
second  were  mentioned,  one  might  say  that  because  it  is  a  sepa- 
rate building  and  of  value,  therefore  it  is  not  included;  but  the 
first,  which  is  not  of  great  value,  is;  therefore  both  are  needed.) 
And  so  also  explained  Mar  the  Elder,  the  son  of  R.  Hisda,  to 
R.  Ashi. 

"  He  must  buy  a  way,"'  etc.  And  the  point  of  their  differ- 
ing is  that  R.  Aqiba  holds  that  usually  the  seller  sells  his  goods 
with  a  good  eye  (explained  above,  p.  98),  and  the  rabbis  hold 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST   GATE).  155 

the  contrary.  And  wherever  it  is  said:  "  R.  Aqiba  is  in  accord- 
ance with  his  theory  that  the  seller  sells  his  goods  with  a  good 
eye,"  the  argument  is  based  upon  this  statement.  [And  lest 
one  say  that  the  point  of  their  differing  is  something  else,  as, 
e.g.,  the  seller  could  not  intend  that  one  should  fly  to  his  well 
through  the  air,  etc.,  therefore  there  is  repeated  in  the  latter 
part  of  the  Mishna  the  same  difference  of  opinion,  to  teach  that 
only  in  the  supposition  of  a  good  and  bad  eye  is  the  point  of 
their  differing.] 

It  was  taught:  R.  Huna  in  the  name  of  Rabh  said:  The 
Halakha  prevails  in  accordance  with  the  sages;  and  R.  Jeremiah 
b.  Aba  in  the  name  of  Samuel :  The  Halakha  prevails  in  accord- 
ance with  R.  Aqiba.  Said  the  latter  to  the  former:  Why, 
many  times  I  said  before  Rabh  that  the  Halakha  prevailed  in 
accordance  with  R.  Aqiba,  and  he  said  nothing  to  me.  And  he 
rejoined:  That  was  because  you  taught  before  him  the  reverse 
— that  R.  Aqiba  was  of  the  opinion  that  the  seller  seWs  with  a 
bad  eye."*  Said  Rabhina  to  R,  Ashi :  Shall  we  assume  that 
both  Rabh  and  Samuel  decided  in  accordance  with  their  theories 
elsewhere  (Chap.  I.,  p.  16),  where  they  differ  also  concerning 
brothers  who  have  divided  their  inheritance ;  and  if  it  is  so,  why 
have  they  repeated  this  statement  twice  ?  (Answered  R.  Ashi:) 
It  was  necessary,  as,  if  one  of  the  two  were  cited,  one  might  say 
that  Rabh  so  decided  concerning  brothers,  as  one  might  claim : 
I  like  to  dwell  in  the  house  wherein  my  parents  dwelt."  As  it 
is  written  [Ps.  xlv.  17]:  "  Instead  of  thy  fathers  shall  be  thy 
children."  But  in  the  other  cases  he  would  agree  with  Samuel. 
And  if  the  other  case  were  stated,  one  might  say  that  only  in 
this  Samuel  differs  with  Rabh,  but  concerning  brothers  Samuel 
agrees  with  him.     Therefore  both  statements  were  needed. 

Said  R.  Na'hman  to  R.  Huna:  Should  the  Halakha  prevail 
as  we  declare,  or  in  accordance  with  you  ?  And  he  answered: 
The  Halakha  should  be  established  in  accordance  with  you,  as 
you  are  nearer  to  the  Exilarchs,  whose  judges  are  competent  and 
can  be  relied  upon. 

It  was  taught :  f  Two  houses,  one  beyond  the  other,  so  that 
one  has  to  pass  the  other  in  going  to  the  street  or  the  yard,  and 
both  are  sold,  or  presented  as  a  gift,  to  two  different  persons — 

*  This  explanation  is  the  best  we  can  offer,  not  to  contradict  Rashbam  and 
R,  Gershom  {q.  v.). 

f  This  is  a  Boraitha  with  the  unusual  expression  Itemar.  See  Explanatory 
Remarks  (back  of  title  page). 


156  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

neither  of  them  has  the  right  to  pass  the  other's  house  without 
his  permission,  and  much  less  when  the  inner  house  is  sold  and 
the  outer  is  presented  as  a  gift.  But  how  is  the  case  if  the 
outer  house  is  sold,  and  the  inner  is  presented  as  a  gift  ?  The 
schoolmen  were  about  to  say  that  the  same  is  the  case.  How- 
ever, they  were  opposed  from  the  following  Mishna,  which 
states,  in  the  last  Mishna  of  this  chapter,  that  "  there  is  a  differ- 
ence with  a  gift,"  etc.,  from  which  we  see  that  all  agree  that  he 
who  makes  a  gift  does  so  with  a  good  eye.  The  same  is  the 
case  here,  when  the  owner  of  the  house  has  at  one  time  sold  the 
outer,  and  made  a  gift  of  the  inner,  as  it  was  with  a  good  eye, 
so  that  he  shall  have  a  right  to  pass. 

MISHNA  ///.  :  If  one  sells  a  house,  the  door  is  sold,  but 
not  the  key  to  it;  the  stationary  mortar  in  the  house,  but  not 
the  movable — the  erpo^iXo?  (every  revolving  body — here,  how- 
ever, is  meant  the  lower  stone  of  a  handmill),  but  not  the 
mill-funnel,  nor  an  oven  or  a  stove.  If,  however,  he  said 
to  him,  "  The  house  with  all  its  contents,"  all  of  these  are 
sold. 

GEMARA:  This  Mishna  is  not  in  accordance  with  R.  Meir, 
who  said:  If  one  has  sold  a  vineyard,  he  has  sold  all  the  vessels 
which  are  used  for  same. 

The  rabbis  taught:  If  one  has  sold  a  house,  he  sold  with  it 
the  door,  the  bolt,  and  lock,  but  not  the  key;  the  engraved 
mortar,  but  not  that  which  is  only  attached ;  the  lower  stone, 
but  not  the  mill-funnel,  nor  the  oven  or  stove  nor  the  handmill. 
R.  Eliezer,  however,  maintains  that  all  that  is  attached  to  the 
ground  is  to  be  considered  as  the  ground  proper.  If,  however, 
the  seller  said,  "  The  house  and  all  its  contents,"  all  of  them 
are  sold.  But  in  any  case,  the  well,  the  surrounding  stones 
thereof,  and  the  j/esta/i  are  not  sold. 

R.  Nehemiah  b.  R.  Joseph  sent  a  message  by  a  woman  to 
Rabha  b.  R.  Huna  the  minor*  in  the  city  of  Nahardea:  When 
this  woman  shall  appear  before  you,  you  shall  collect  on  her 
behalf  the  tenth  of  all  the  properties  belonging  to  her  father, 
for  her  support,  even  from  the  lower  stones  of  the  handmills. 
Said  R.  Ashi :  When  we  were  with  R.  Kahana  we  used  to  col- 
lect for  such  a  purpose  even  from  the  rent  of  the  houses  (the 
law  is,  that  for  the  support  of  a  daughter  a  tenth  of  the  real 

•  According  to  Halpern  he  was  of  the  time  of  R.  Huna  the  Exilarch,  and  was 
called  "minor"  to  distinguish  him  from  the  former.  Others,  however,  say  that  it 
must  be  Hamnunah. 


TRACT    BABA   BATHRA   (LAST    GATE).  157 

estate  is  to  be  collected,  and  R.  Ashi  holds  that  the  rent  of  real 
estate  is  to  be  considered  the  same  for  this  purpose). 

MISHNA  IV.  :  If  one  sold  a  yard,  the  houses,  wells,  cellars, 
and  caves  are  included,  but  not  movable  property.  If,  however, 
he  said,  "  with  all  their  contents,"  all  is  sold;  in  any  case,  if 
there  were  bath  or  press  houses,  they  are  not  included.  R. 
Eliezer,  however,  maintains:  If  one  has  sold  the  yard  without 
any  explanation,  he  has  sold  only  the  ground  thereof,  but  noth- 
ing else.  (Even  if,  according  to  the  amount  which  was  paid  by 
the  buyer,  it  seems  that  all  its  contents  are  sold,  as  the  law  of 
deceiving  does  not  apply  to  real  estate. — Rashbam.) 

GEMARA :  The  rabbis  taught :  If  one  sells  a  yard,  the  outer 
houses,  the  inner  ones,  Bet/i  Hidsauth,'^  and  stores  which  are 
open  inside  are  included  in  the  sale,  but  not  those  which  are 
open  outside.  If,  however,  they  are  open  on  both  sides,  they 
are  included.  R.  Eliezer,  however,  maintains  that  if  one  sold 
the  yard  he  sold  only  the  moles  {i.e.,  the  great  mass  of  the  air). 
The  text  says  if  they  are  open  from  both  sides  they  are  sold 
with  it ;  but  has  not  R.  Hyya  taught  that  they  are  not  ?  This 
presents  no  difficulty.  Our  Boraitha  speaks  of  that  of  which 
the  main  use  was  inside,  and  R.  Hyya  speaks  of  that  of  which 
the  main  use  was  outside. 

"  Eliezer  said,''  etc.  Said  Rabha:  If  the  seller  said:  "  I  sell 
you  this  foreyard,"  all  agree  that  the  houses  are  included;  but 
if  he  said:  "  I  sell  you  the  yard,"  they  differ.  According  to 
the  rabbis,  the  yard  with  all  its  contents  is  meant,  as  the  yard 
of  the  tabernacle,  which  is  written,  "  the  length  of  the  yard" 
[Ex.  xxvii.],  and  all  its  contents  is  meant;  and  R.  Eliezer  holds 
that  with  the  word  "  yard  "  is  meant  the  air  only. 

Rabha  in  the  name  of  R.  Na'hman  said:  If  one  has  made 
a  hazakah  on  the  Chulsu,  title  is  acquired  in  the  ground  to  a 
depth  at  which  silver  or  gold,  if  found,  belongs  to  him.  Is 
this  not  self-evident?  Has  not  Samuel  said:  If  one  sold  ten 
fields  in  ten  different  countries,  as  soon  as  he  has  made  a  haza- 
kah on  one  of  them,  title  is  acquired  to  all  ?  Lest  one  say  that 
there  is  a  difference,  as  the  surface  of  the  earth  is  alike  every- 
where, and  the  fields  are  similarly  adapted  for  planting,  they  are 
therefore  considered  as  if  they  were  joined  each  to  the  other; 
but  in  our  case  the  use  of  the  two  things  mentioned  is  different, 

*  A  Beth  Hulsauth,  according  to  Rashbam,  means  sand  of  which  glass  is  made  ; 
to  Gershom,  it  means  rock.  Schonhak,  however,  maintains  that  it  is  a  Greek  word, 
meaning  bank.     The  reader  may  choose. 


iS8  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

and  one  might  say  that  title  is  not  given  to  the  ground — there- 
fore Rabha's  statement, 

MISHNA  v.:  If  one  sells  a  press-house,  the  sale  includes 
the  trough,  the  press-beam  or  press-stone,  and  the  poles,  but  not 
the  boards  that  are  put  on  grapes  while  pressing;  neither  the 
wheel  nor  the  treading  rod.  If,  however,  he  told  him,  "  This 
press-house,  with  all  its  contents,"  all  is  sold.  R.  Eliezer,  how- 
ever, maintains  that  the  expression  "press-house"  means  the 
treading-rod  only. 

GEMARA:  The  rabbis  taught:  If  one  sell  a  press-house, 
the  sale  includes  the  bronze  plates  that  prevent  the  grapes  from 
scattering,  the  trough,  the  press-beams,  and  lower  stones  of  the 
handmill,  but  not  the  upper  stones.  If,  however,  he  said, 
"  With  all  its  contents,"  all  is  sold.  In  any  case,  neither  the 
boards  which  are  put  on  the  grapes  while  pressing,  nor  the 
sacks,  nor  the  packing-bags  are  sold.  R.  Eliezer,  however, 
maintains  that  he  who  sells  a  press-house  sells  the  treading-rod 
also,  as  the  expression  "  press-house  "  means  chiefly  the"  tread- 
ing-rod." 

MISHNA  VL:  If  one  sell  a  bath-house,  the  sale  does  not 
include  the  boards  on  the  floor  (the  baths  at  that  time  were 
heated  beneath  the  stone  floors,  and  boards  were  placed  on  the 
floor  for  stepping  upon),  the  basin,  neither  the  curtains  on  the 
doors.  If,  however,  he  said,  "  With  all  its  contents,"  all  is 
sold;  but  in  any  case  the  sale  does  not  include  the  channels 
with  water,  nor  the  wood  piles  prepared  for  the  bath-house. 

GEMARA:  The  rabbis  taught:  If  one  has  sold  a  bath- 
house, the  sale  includes  the  separate  houses  for  keeping  the 
boards,  the  tubs,  the  basins,  and  the  curtains;  but  not  the 
boards  proper,  neither  the  tubs,  nor  the  basins,  nor  the  curtains. 
If,  however,  he  said  to  him,  "  With  all  its  contents,"  all  is  sold. 
In  any  case,  however,  the  channels  that  contain  water  for  the 
use  of  bathing  in  the  summer  and  rainy  seasons  are  not  sold, 
nor  the  houses  for  storing  the  wood,  unless  he  said :  "  The  bath- 
house with  all  its  implements,"  then  the  sale  includes  every- 
thing that  may  be  used  for  bathing  purposes. 

There  was  a  man  who  said  :  "  I  sell  you  the  press-house  with 
all  its  implements,"  and  there  were  some  stores  outside  of  the 
press-house,  in  which  poppy  was  spread  out  for  drying  pur- 
poses, and  the  buyer  claimed  that  they  were  also  included,  while 
the  seller  claimed  they  were  not.  The  case  came  before  R. 
Joseph,  who  decided  in  accordance  with  the  Boraitha  just  cited, 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  159 

that  in  such  a  case  everything  that  maybe  used  for  that  purpose 
is  sold.  Said  Abayi  to  him :  But  does  not  R.  Hyya  teach  the 
contrary  ?  Therefore  said  R.  Ashi:  It  must  be  investigated 
how  the  sale  was;  if  he  said,  "  the  press-house  with  all  its  im- 
plements and  also  its  boundaries,"  then  title  is  given  to  all  of 
them,  but  not  otherwise. 

MISHNA  VII.  :  If  one  sells  a  town,  the  sale  includes  houses, 
wells,  caves,  bath  and  press  houses,  pigeon-houses,  and  also 
Beth  Hashal'hin,  but  not  the  movable  property,  unless  he  said, 
"  the  town  with  all  its  contents  " ;  then,  even  if  there  were  cat- 
tle or  slaves,  they  are  also  included  in  the  sale.  R.  Simeon  b. 
Gamaliel  said :  He  who  sells  a  town  sells  also  the  santer  (the 
meaning  will  be  explained  farther  on). 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  A'ha  b.  R.  Ivya  to  R.  Ashi:  From  this 
Mishna  is  to  be  understood  that  slaves  are  considered  movable 
property;  as,  if  they  were  to  be  considered  real  estate,  then 
they  would  be  sold  with  the  town  without  any  stipulation. 
Answered  he :  Even  according  to  your  theory  that  they  are  con- 
sidered movable  property,  why  does  the  Mishna  state  that  if  he 
said,  "  even  with  all  its  contents,"  slaves  are  sold  also,  from 
which  is  to  be  understood  that  they  are  not  movable  property 
proper  ?  And  what  could  you  answer  to  this — that  there  is  a 
difference  between  movable  property  that  must  be  carried  and 
that  which  is  self-moving  ?  The  same  answer  can  apply  also  to 
the  theory  that  slaves  are  considered  real  estate,  as  there  is  a 
difference  between  stationary  real  estate  "  and  that  which  is 
self-moving." 

"  Sold  the  santer.''  What  does  this  word  mean  ?  Here  in 
Balylon  they  explained  it  "  guardsman,"  or  "  bailiff  "  (a  slave). 
Simeon  b.  Abtulmus  said:  It  means  a.pagtis  (land  that  surrounds 
the  town).  According  to  him  who  explains  it  as  "  guardsman," 
etc.,  so  much  the  more  is  the  pagus  included  in  the  sale;  but 
according  to  him  who  explains  it  as  2.  pagus,  the  guardsman  is 
not  included.  An  objection  was  raised  from  our  Mishna,  which 
states:  "  press-houses  and  Beth  Hashal'hin,"  and  the  school- 
men explained  the  expression  shaVhin  (which  everywhere  means 
dry  field)  as  meaning  the  gardens  around  the  town,  which  also 
usually  ought  to  be  watered.  And  this  is  correct  only  for  him 
who  explains  the  word  santer  as  a  pagus,  when  the  Mishna  is  to 
be  explained  thus:  The  first  Tana  holds  that  only  the  gardens 
around  the  town  are  included,  but  not  anything  else;  and  R. 
Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  came  to  add  the  pagus ;  which,  according 


i6o  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

to  his  opinion,  is  also  included.  But  according  to  him  who  ex- 
plains santer  as  a  "  guardsman,"  if  it  be  assumed  that  the  first 
Tana  speaks  about  gardens,  should  R.  Simeon  answer  him  with 
a  "  guardsman  "  ?  Nay  !  The  explanation  of  the  word  shaV hin 
is  not  gardens,  as  you  thought,  but,  as  is  everywhere  explained, 
dry  land,  which  means /<j^«j.  [And  this  explanation  is  correct, 
as  it  is  written  [Job,  v.  lo]:  "  And  sendeth  out  waters,"  etc., 
which  is  the  translation  of  Veshilea  h.'\  And  R.  Simeon  b. 
Gamaliel  came  to  say:  Not  only  zpagus,  but  even  the  "  guards- 
man," is  also  included. 

Come  and  hear  another  objection!  R.  Jehudah  said:  The 
santer  is  not  included,  but  the  anqlmus  (the  scribe  of  the  city, 
who  was  usually  a  slave  to  whom  all  the  surrounding  fields  on 
which  the  taxes  were  to  be  collected  was  known).  Hence  as 
the  scribe  anqlmus  means  a  man,  so  also  must  santer  mean  a 
man  ?  Why  ?  Santer  may  mean  a  pagus,  and  angljuus  a  man. 
But  this  cannot  be,  because  of  the  latter  part  of  the  said  Bo- 
raitha,  which  states :  It  does  not  include,  however,  the  shirih, 
neither  the  villages  around  the  town,  nor  the  forests  which  are 
near  it,  and  also  not  the  vivarium  of  wild  beasts,  fowl,  or  fish. 
And  to  the  question,  What  means  the  word  shirih  ?  it  was  said 
by  R.  Aba:  It  means  pieces  of  paguses  {i.e.,  dry  land  surround- 
ing the  town,  broken  by  rocks).  Now  can  you  say  that  part  of 
\\iQ. pagus  is  not  sold,  while  the  vi\io\& pagus  is?  Reverse  the 
names!  R.  Jehudah  said:  The  anqbmis  is  not  sold,  but  the 
santer  is. 

But  how  can  you  say  that  R.  Jehudah  is  in  accordance  with 
R.  Simeon?  Does  he  not  hold  with  the  rabbis,  who  said: 
"  The  villages  that  surround  the  town  are  not  sold,"  while  R. 
Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  said  plainly  in  a  Boraitha:  The  sale  of  the 
town  includes  the  villages  near  by  also  ?  It  does  not  matter.  R. 
Jehudah  may  agree  with  him  in  one  thing,  and  differ  in  another. 

"  *  Vivarium  '  of  luild  beasts,"  etc.  There  is  a  contradiction 
from  the  following  Boraitha:  If  villages  belong  to  the  town, 
they  are  not  sold  with  it;  if  the  town  contains  one  part  of  the 
sea,  or  it  has  a  vivarium  of  wild  beasts,  fowl,  or  fish,  they  are 
sold  therewith.  This  presents  no  difficulty!  One  Boraitha 
speaks  of  when  the  entrance  to  the  vivarium  was  from  the  city, 
and  the  other  speaks  of  when  the  entrance  was  from  the  field. 
But  does  not  the  first  Boraitha  state:  Nor  the  forests  which  face 
the  town  (which  means  also  the  entrance  from  the  town)  ? 
Read :  The  forests  that  are  separated  from  it. 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  i6i 

MISHNA  VIII. :  If  one  sells  a  field,  the  sale  includes  the 
stones  which  are  needed  for  its  use;  and  if  it  was  a  vineyard, 
the  sticks  which  are  used  for  keeping  the  vines  in  order.  Also 
the  stalks  that  are  attached  to  the  ground,  the  reed-bushes  if 
they  take  a  space  less  than  that  in  which  a  quarter  of  a  kab  can 
be  sown,  the  hut  (where  the  watchman  guards)  if  it  is  not 
smeared  with  clay,  and  a  carob  or  a  sycamore  uninoculated ;  but 
not  the  stones,  the  sticks  of  a  vineyard  which  are  not  for  use  at 
that  time,  neither  the  grain  that  is  not  attached  to  the  ground. 
If,  however,  he  says,  "  with  all  its  contents,"  all  is  sold.  In 
any  case,  however,  the  sale  does  not  include  the  reed-bushes  if 
they  take  more  space  than  said  above,  and  not  the  hut  if  smeared 
with  clay,  and  not  a  carob  or  sycamore  when  inoculated. 

GEMARA:  What  stones  are  to  be  considered  to  be  needed 
for  use  ?  Here  in  this  college  it  was  explained,  stones  which  are 
prepared  for  laying  upon  the  sheaves,  that  they  may  not  be 
scattered  by  the  wind.  Ula,  however,  said:  It  means  stones 
that  are  arranged  for  a  wall. 

But  did  not  R.  Hyya  teach:  The  stones  that  were  gathered 
in  heaps  for  this  purpose  ?  Read:  arranged.  To  him  who 
explains  the  stones  as  for  laying  upon  the  sheaves — according 
to  R.  Meir,  who  says  elsewhere  that  if  one  sells  a  vineyard  all 
the  things  which  are  useful  for  it  are  sold  therewith,  the  stones 
in  question  are  included,  even  when  they  are  placed  outside  the 
field  ;  and  according  to  his  opponents,  only  when  they  are  placed 
in  the  field  and  prepared  for  this  purpose.  And  to  Ula's  expla- 
nation that  it  means  stones  for  a  wall — according  to  R.  Meir 
even  when  they  were  not  arranged,  and  to  his  opponents  only 
when  they  were  arranged. 

"  The  sticks,'"  etc.  The  school  of  R.  Yanai  says:  It  means 
posts  for  supporting  the  vine,  in  order  to  prevent  its  bending. 
And  according  to  R.  Meir,  even  when  they  were  not  prepared 
for  this  purpose;  and  to  the  rabbis  his  opponents,  however, 
only  when  already  placed  under  the  vine. 

"  Stalks  which  are  attached,"  etc.  Even  when  they  are  ripe 
for  harvesting. 

"  The  reed-bushes"  etc.  Although  they  are  growing  sepa- 
rately, or  thick  ones,  which  have  nothing  to  do  with  the  vine- 
yard. 

"  The  hut"  etc.  Although  it  was  not  attached  to  the 
ground. 

'*  And  the  carob"  etc.     Although  thick  and  si:rong. 


i62  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

"  Bui  not  the  sto7tes,*'  etc.  According  to  R.  Meir,  when  they 
were  not  prepared  for  this  purpose,  and  according  to  the  rabbis 
when  they  were  outside  of  the  field;  and  also  to  Ula's  explana- 
tion— according  to  R.  Meir,  when  they  were  not  prepared,  and 
to  the  rabbis,  when  they  were  not  arranged. 

The  posts  for  supporting,''  etc.  According  to  R.  Meir, 
when  they  were  not  prepared,  and  according  to  the  rabbis,  when 
they  were  not  placed  under  the  vine. 

"  When  they  were  not  attached,'"  etc.  Even  so  they  still 
needed  the  ground  for  drying. 

''  And  not  the  reed-bushcs."  Although  they  are  still  small. 
And  R.  Hyya  b.  Aba  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan:  Not 
reed-bushes  only,  but  even  if  there  was  a  small  bed  of  spices, 
having  a  separate  name,  it  is  not  included  in  the  sale.  Said  R. 
Papa:  Provided  they  are  called  the  spices  of  so  and  so. 

"  And  not  the  hut"  etc.  Although  it  were  attached  to  the 
ground. 

"  Nor  the  carob,"  etc.  Whence  is  this  deduced  ?  Said  R. 
Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  From  [Gen.  xxxiii.  17]:  "  And 
the  field  of  Ephron  .  .  .  and  all  the  trees  that  were  in  the 
field,  that  were  in  all  its  borders  round  about,  were  made  sure  "  ; 
from  which  is  to  be  understood  that  all  those  without  the  bor- 
ders were  excluded  (and  so  also  the  inoculated  carob,  etc.,  are 
of  separate  value  and  had  nothing  to  do  with  his  field).  Said 
R.  Mesharshia:  From  this  passage  we  infer  that  the  boundary 
is  sold  to  the  buyer  with  the  field  biblically;  i.e.,  because  it  is 
written  "  round  about,"  which  is  the  boundary,  and  was  sold 
by  Ephron  with  the  field. 

R.  Jehudah  said:  It  is  advisable  for  one  who  sells  his  estate 
to  write  in  the  bill  of  sale  "  acquire  title  to  the  trees,  to  the 
young  plants,  also  to  those  trees  that  do  not  yield  fruit."  And 
although  title  is  given  to  all  these,  even  if  it  were  not  so  writ- 
ten, it  is  better  for  the  bill  of  sale  to  contain  the  words  just  men- 
tioned. If  one  said:  "  I  sell  you  the  ground  and  date  trees," 
then,  if  there  were  such  on  his  estate,  he  must  give  him  two  of 
them ;  and  if  there  were  not,  he  has  to  buy  two  for  him ;  and  if 
he  possesses  them,  but  they  were  mortgaged,  he  has  to  redeem 
two  for  him.  If  he  said:  "  I  sell  you  the  estate  with  the  date 
trees,"  if  the  estate  contains  such  the  sale  is  valid;  and  if  not, 
the  sale  is  void.  If  he  said:  "  An  estate  on  which  there  are 
date  trees,"  and  there  were  none,  the  sale  is  valid;  for  he 
meant,  it  is  fit  for  them.     If  he  said:  "  I  sell  to  you  this  estate, 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  163 

except  such  and  such  a  tree,"  it  is  to  be  investigated  whether 
this  tree  is  a  good  one  that  yields  much  fruit — then  he  reserves 
it  for  himself;  but  if  it  was  a  bad  one,  which  yields  no  fruit  at 
all,  or  only  a  little,  and  in  this  field  were  better  ones,  so  much 
the  more  does  he  reserve  them  for  himself.  If  he  said:  "  I  sell 
you  this  field,  except  the  trees,"  if  there  were  many  kinds  of 
trees  they  are  certainly  not  included ;  but  even  if  it  contained 
only  date  trees  or  vines,  they  are  excluded  also.  If,  however, 
there  were  trees  and  vines,  the  trees  only  are  excluded ;  and  if 
there  were  date  trees  and  vines,  the  date  trees  are  excluded  but 
not  the  vines. 

Rabh  said :  A  date  tree  is  considered  a  reservation  only  when 
he  must  ascend  with  a  rope  for  gathering  the  fruit;  but  if  not 
so  high,  it  is  not  considered  a  reservation.  The  judges  of  the 
Exile  (Samuel  and  Kama),  however,  maintain:  If  it  does  not 
hinder  the  yoke  of  oxen  which  are  ploughing  around  it,  it  is  not 
considered  a  reservation ;  but  if  it  does  hinder,  it  is.  However, 
they  do  not  differ,  as  Rabh  speaks  of  a  date  tree  and  they  treat 
of  other  trees. 

R.  A'ha  b.  Huna  questioned  R.  Shesheth:  How  is  it  if  the 
seller  says :  Accept  the  half  of  such  and  such  a  carob  ?  It  is 
certain  to  me  that  he  does  not  acquire  title  to  other  carobs;  but 
I  doubt  whether  he  acquires  title  to  the  half  of  the  carob  in  ques- 
tion ?  And  the  answer  was :  He  does  not.  He  objected  to  him 
from  the  following  Boraitha:  If  he  said,  "  Accept  the  half  of 
such  and  such  a  carob,"  title  is  not  acquired  to  the  other  carobs, 
by  which  is  to  be  understood  that  he  does  not  to  the  other  carobs, 
but  he  does  to  the  half  in  question  ?  And  he  answered:  Nay! 
Even  to  the  half  left  to  the  buyer,  title  is  not  given,  this  case 
being  similar  to  one  in  which  it  was  said,  "  I  sell  you  this  field, 
except  the  half  of  such  and  such  a  one."  Were  we  to  assume 
that  the  buyer  acquires  title  to  all  his  fields  except  the  half  in 
question,  although  he  said  plainly,  "  I  sell  you  this  field,"  it 
must  be  said  he  does  not  acquire  title  to  any  except  to  that 
which  he  had  shown  him;  and  that  his  remark,  "except  the 
half  field,"  etc.,  was  but  redundance.  The  same  is  the  case 
here.  If  he  said,  "  I  sell  you  this  field,  except  the  half  tree," 
the  last  word  is  to  be  considered  redundance. 

R.  Amram  questioned  R.  Hisda:  If  one  has  deposited  some- 
thing with  his  neighbor,  and  taken  from  him  a  receipt  (approved 
by  witnesses),  and  thereafter  the  depositary  claims  that  he  has 
returned  the  bailment,  how  is  the  law  ?     May  it  be  said  that, 


i64  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

because  if  he  were  to  claim  that  the  baihnent  was  taken  away 
from  him  by  force,  he  would  be  trusted,  the  same  should  be  the 
case  with  the  claim,  "  I  have  returned,"  or  the  depositor  has 
a  right  to  say:  If  it  were  so,  how  comes  thy  receipt  in  my 
hands  ?  And  he  answered:  He  is  to  be  trusted  when  he  takes 
an  oath,  the  same  being  the  case  when  the  depositary  claims 
"  it  was  taken  away  from  me  by  force  " — he  must  take  an  oath. 

Shall  we  assume  that  R.  Amram  and  R.  Hisda  differ  on  the 
same  point  as  the  Tanaim  of  the  following  Boraitha  differ:  If 
one  holds  a  document  which  witnesses  to  an  amount  of  money 
given  by  him  to  his  deceased  partner  for  a  half  profit,  and  claims 
that  the  amount  was  not  returned  to  him,  while  the  orphans 
say  that  they  are  not  certain  whether  the  amount  was  returned  ? 
The  judges  of  the  Exile  said:  The  plaintiff  has  to  take  an  oath, 
and  collects  the  whole  amount.  The  judges  of  Palestine,  how- 
ever, maintain  that  he  collects  only  the  half  with  this  oath. 
And  all  of  them  agree  with  the  sages  of  Nahardea,  that  of  the 
money  which  is  given  for  the  purpose  of  a  half  profit  half  of  the 
amount  is  considered  a  loan  and  the  other  half  a  deposit.  (See 
Middle  Gate,  p.  277.)  Now  is  it  not  to  be  supposed  that  the 
point  of  their  differing  is  that  one  party  holds  that  the  claim  of 
the  plaintiff,  "The  document  in  my  hand  gives  evidence  that 
the  amount  was  not  returned,"  is  to  be  listened  to,  and  the 
other  party  (who  says  that  with  the  oath  he  collects  the  half 
only)  maintains  that  such  is  not  considered  evidence?  Nay! 
All  agree  with  R.  Hisda,  and  the  point  of  their  differing  is,  that 
one  party  holds  if  the  deceased  had  returned,  he  would  have 
notified  his  heirs,  and  the  other  holds  it  may  be  that  death  pre- 
vented him  from  doing  so. 

R.  Huna  b.  Abi  sent  the  following  message:  A  depositary 
who  claims  that  he  had  returned  the  bailment,  although  his 
receipt  is  still  in  the  hands  of  the  depositor,  is  to  be  trusted 
(with  an  oath),  and  with  a  document  of  a  half  profit  in  the  hands 
of  the  plaintiff  suing  the  orphans,  he  may  swear  and  collect  the 
whole  amount.  Do  these  two  statements  contradict  each  other 
(as  in  the  case  of  a  depositary  the  document  is  in  the  hand  of 
the  plaintiff,  and  the  defetidant  is  trusted  with  an  oath,  and  in 
the  case  of  a  half  profit  the  plamtiffxs  trusted  with  an  oath)  ? 
The  latter  case  is  different,  because,  if  the  deceased  had  made 
return,  he  would  have  notified  his  heirs.  Said  Rabha :  The 
Halakha  prevails  concerning  orphans,  that  he  takes  only  the 
half  with  an  oath.     Mar  Zutra,  however,  said :    The   Halakha 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  165 

prevails  with  the  judges  of  the  Exile.  And  to  the  objection 
of  Rabhina,  that  Rabha  had  long  ago  decided  that  he  takes  only 
the  half  with  an  oath,  he  answered  :  We  have  learned  the  reverse ; 
i.e.,  that  the  judges  of  the  Exile  hold  that  he  takes  the  half  only 
with  an  oath,  and  the  Palestinians,  that  he  collects  the  whole 
amount.     Hence  my  decision  is  the  same  as  Rabha's. 

MISHNA IX. :  In  selling  a  field,  if  it  contains  a  well,  cistern, 
or  pigeon-house,  no  matter  whether  they  are  still  in  use  or  dam- 
aged, they  are  not  included  in  the  sale.  However,  the  seller 
must  buy  a  way  from  the  buyer  for  passing  to  them.  So  is  the 
decree  of  R.  Aqiba.  The  sages,  however,  say  that  it  is  not 
necessary.  R.  Aqiba,  however,  admits  that  if  the  bill  of  sale 
states,  "  except  the  above  things,"  he  need  not  buy  a  way.  If 
the  seller  sold  the  above  separately  to  another — according  to  R. 
Aqiba  it  is  not  necessary  for  the  buyer  of  them  to  buy  a  pas- 
sage, and  according  to  the  sages  it  is.  This  is  all  said  concern- 
ing a  sale;  but  if  the  owner  of  the  field  has  made  a  gift  of  it, 
title  is  given  to  the  field  with  all  its  contents.  The  same  is  the 
case  when  brothers  divide  their  inheritance,  and  the  field  falls 
in  a  share  of  one  of  them :  he  acquires  title  to  all  its  contents. 

If  one  made  a  hazakah  on  the  estate  of  a  childless  proselyte, 
the  hazakah  applies  to  all  the  above-mentioned  things,  if  they 
were  to  be  found  on  it.  If  one  consecrate  his  field,  all  that  is 
to  be  found  in  it  is  sanctified.  R.  Simeon,  however,  said:  The 
above-mentioned  things  are  not  included  in  the  sanctification; 
but  if  there  was  an  inoculated  carob  or  a  trunk  of  a  sycamore,  it 
is  included,  because  while  growing  they  are  nourished  by  the 
sanctified  ground. 

GEMARA:  What  is  the  difference  between  a  sale  and  a 
gift  ?  Jehudah  b.  N'qusa  explained  before  Rabbi :  The  one  who 
makes  a  gift,  if  he  desires  to  reserve  any  part  of  it  for  himself, 
he  ought  to  state  so  plainly,  which  is  not  the  case  with  a  seller, 
who  needs  money:  the  details  of  the  sale  must  be  determined 
by  the  buyer,  and  if  not  so  done,  the  seller  has  the  preference. 

There  was  a  man  who  said  in  his  will:  Give  to  so  and  so 
my  house  that  contains  a  hundred  barrels  {i.e.,  that  within  the 
width,  length,  and  height  of  the  house  ten  barrels  square  could 
be  placed).  After  investigation  it  was  found  that  the  house 
contained  one  hundred  and  twenty  barrels  {i.e.,  twelve  rows, 
each  of  ten  barrels),  and  no  other  house  was  found  on  the  de- 
ceased's estate.  And  Mar  Zutra  said:  The  will  states  a  hun- 
dred, but  not  a  hundred  and  twenty.     Said  R.  Ashi  to  him: 


i66  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Did  not  our  Mishna  state:  All  this  is  said  concerning  a  sale,  but 
concerning  a  gift  title  is  given  to  all ;  and  the  reason  is  that  he 
who  makes  a  gift  does  it  with  a  good  eye?  The  same  is  the 
case  here.  The  deceased  thought  that  it  contained  a  hundred 
only.  He  therefore  said  so,  that  the  donee  should  be  aware 
that  he  bequeathed  him  such  a  big  house,  but  not  to  exclude 
it  if  it  contained  still  more  than  he  thought,  as  it  must  be  sup- 
posed it  was  given  to  him  with  a  good  eye. 

"  If  one  consecrated  his  field,''  etc.  R.  Huna  said  :  Although 
the  rabbis  have  declared  that  he  who  buys  two  trees  that  are 
between  others  does  not  acquire  title  to  the  ground  beneath,  if 
the  seller  has  sold  the  ground  with  the  trees,  but  reserved  two 
trees  for  himself,  the  ground  beneath  belongs  to  him.  And 
even  R.  Aqiba's  theory,  that  usually  a  seller  sells  with  a  good 
eye,  is  only  concerning  a  well,  etc.,  which  does  not  cause  any 
harm  to  the  ground ;  but  as  for  trees,  which  while  nourishing 
do  so,  if  the  buyer  should  not  agree  that  the  ground  beneath 
should  belong  to  the  seller,  he  would  tell  him  to  cut  down  the 
trees  and  go;  and  if  he  did  not  do  so,  it  must  be  supposed  that 
he  was  willing  that  the  trees  with  the  ground  beneath  should 
remain  to  the  seller  forever,  so  that  in  case  the  trees  should 
wither  he  might  plant  others  instead. 


CHAPTER   V. 

RULES  AND  REGULATIONS  CONCERNING  SALES  OF  SHIPS,  BOATS, 
ANIMALS,  AND  TEAMS;  CONCERNING  BROODS  OF  PIGEONS  AND 
beasts;  TREES,  WITH  THE  GROUND  AND  WITHOUT.  HOW  TO 
ACQUIRE  TITLE  TO  FRUIT  AND  FLAX.  OF  ARTICLES  WHICH  BE- 
CAME DEARER  OR  CHEAPER  BETWEEN  THE  TIME  OF  SALE  AND 
DELIVERY.  AT  WHAT  TIME  THE  WHOLESALERS  AND  STORE- 
KEEPERS HAD  TO  CORRECT  THEIR  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES, 
AND  OF  WHAT  MATERIAL  THE  WEIGHTS  MIGHT  AND  MIGHT 
NOT    BE   MADE. 

MISHNA  /. :  If  one  sells  a  boat,  the  sale  includes  the  mast, 
the  flag,  the  shovels,  and  all  things  pertaining  to  the  leading  of 
the  boat,  but  not  the  slaves,  and  the  sacks  for  carrying  goods, 
nor  the  etttheca.  If,  however,  he  sells  the  boat  with  all  its  con- 
tents, all  is  sold. 

GEMARA:  The  rabbis  taught:  If  one  sold  a  boat,  the  sale 
includes  the  scala,  and  also  the  well  with  water  therein.  R. 
Nathan  said :  The  sale  includes  also  the  safety  boats.  And  so 
also  said  Symmachos,  but  he  named  them  diigit  as  in  Palestine, 
while  R.  Nathan  named  them  bizit  as  in  Babylon.* 

It  was  taught:  To  acquire  title  to  a  boat,  according  to  Rabh, 
as  soon  as  one  made  a  little  drawing  on  it  title  is  given.  Sam- 
uel, however,  maintains  that  title  is  not  given  unless  he  moved 
the  entire  boat.  Shall  we  assume  that  they  differ  in  the  same 
way  as  the  Tanaim  of  the  following  Tosephtha  do:  How  does 
one  acquire  title  by  transferring  ?  By  taking  hold  of  the  feet 
of  the  animal  or  its  hair,  its  saddle  or  the  load  that  is  upon  it, 
the  bridle,  the  bell  on  its  neck  (although  the  animal  has  not 
moved  from  its  place),  title  is  given.  And  how  does  one  acquire 
title  by  drawing  ?  By  calling  it  and  it  follows  the  voice,  or  by 
striking  it  with  a  stick  and  it  runs  from  him:  as  soon  as  the 
animal  has   moved   hand  or  foot,  title   is  acquired.     R.  A'hi, 

*  Here  in  text  are  the  well-known  legends  of  Rabba  b.  b.  Hana  among  the 
other  Hagadah,  which  we  find  necessary  to  transfer  to  the  end  of  this  chapter. 


i68  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

and  according  to  others  R.  A'ha,  said:  Not  unless  it  has  moved 
its  whole  body.  Hence  it  is  to  be  assumed  that  Rabh  holds 
with  the  first  Tana  and  Samuel  with  R.  A'ha  ?  Nay.  Rabh 
may  say:  My  decision  is  in  accordance  with  R.  A'ha's  also, 
as  R.  A'ha  speaks  of  a  living  body,  which,  even  if  it  raised  hand 
or  foot,  it  remains  still  on  its  place  without  moving  from  it  (and 
therefore  he  requires  the  moving  of  its  whole  body);  but  I  speak 
of  a  boat,  which,  if  one  draws  it  a  little,  the  entire  body  thereof 
is  set  in  motion.  And  Samuel  also  may  say:  My  decision  can 
be  also  in  accordance  with  the  first  Tana,  who  speaks  of  a  living 
body  which  lifts  its  hand  or  foot,  and  usually  it  is  to  move  the 
other  one  also;  but  concerning  a  boat,  it  is  not  considered  a 
drawing  unless  he  moves  the  entire  boat. 

Shall  we  assume  that  they  differ  in  the  same  way  as  the 
Tanaim  of  the  following  Tosephtha  do  ?  To  a  boat,  title  is 
given  by  drawing.  R.  Nathan  says:  To  a  boat,  and  also  to 
promissory  notes,  title  is  given  by  drawing,  or  by  a  bill  of  sale. 
And  to  the  question :  Where  are  promissory  notes  mentioned, 
so  that  R.  Nathan's  statement  should  apply  ?  it  was  answered 
that  the  Tosephtha  is  not  complete,  and  is  to  be  read  thus :  To 
a  boat,  title  is  given  by  drawing,  but  to  promissory  notes  by 
transferring.  R.  Nathan,  however,  maintains  that  to  both  title 
is  given  by  drawing,  as  well  as  by  a  bill  of  sale. 

But  is,  then,  a  bill  of  sale  needed  for  a  boat — is  it  not  mov- 
able property,  for  which  drawing  is  suflficient  ?  It  must  then  be 
said  it  was  taught  thus:  To  a  boat,  title  is  given  by  drawing, 
and  to  promissory  notes  by  transferring.  R.  Nathan,  however, 
says :  To  a  boat  by  drawing,  and  to  promissory  notes  by  a  bill 
of  sale.  And  as  R.  Nathan's  statement  concerning  a  boat 
would  be  superfluous  if  his  decision  were  the  same  as  the  first 
Tanaim,  we  must  then  say  that  they  differ  in  the  same  way  as 
Rabh  and  Samuel  differ  (/.^.,  that  R.  Nathan  requires  that  the 
whole  body  of  the  boat  should  be  moved,  while  according  to 
the  first  Tana  a  little  drawing  sufifices)?  Nay;  both  may  agree 
with  Rabh  or  with  Samuel,  and  they  do  not  differ  at  all  con- 
cerning a  boat.  Wherein  they  differ  is  but  as  to  promissory 
notes.  Said  R.  Nathan  to  the  first  Tana  (of  the  above  To- 
sephtha): Concerning  a  boat  I  certainly  agree  with  you,  but 
concerning  promissory  notes  I  hold  to  my  opinion  that  if  there 
were  a  bill  of  sale  the  transferring  gives  title,  but  not  otherwise. 
And  they  differ  in  the  same  point  as  the  Tanaim  of  the  follow- 
ing Boraitha  do:  To  promissory  notes  title  is  given  by  transfer. 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  169 

So  is  the  decree  of  Rabbi.  The  sages,  however,  say:  Title  is 
not  given  by  writing  (as  to  all  the  debts  contained  in  the  prom- 
issory notes)  unless  the  notes  in  question  are  transferred  to  the 
buyer,  and  the  same  is  the  case  when  the  notes  were  transferred 
without  a  bill  of  sale:  as  to  such  things,  both  writing  and  trans- 
ferring are  needed. 

Now  let  us  see.  The  above  Boraitha  is  explained  in  accord- 
ance with  Rabbi.  Let,  then,  the  case  of  the  boat  also  be 
explained  in  accordance  with  Rabbi,  who  holds  that  to  a  boat 
title  is  acquired  by  transfer,  inasmuch  as  we  have  learned  in  the 
following  Boraitha  that  such  is  the  decree  of  Rabbi.  But  the 
sages  say  that  title  is  not  given  unless  he  makes  a  drawing  or 
he  hires  the  place  in  which  it  is  then  placed  ?  This  presents  no 
difficulty.  Rabbi  speaks  of  when  the  boat  was  placed  on  a 
public  ground  (as  then  drawing  could  not  be  made,  because  he 
must  draw  to  a  place  which  is  under  his  control,  which  is  not 
the  case  when  it  is  in  public  ground  ;  and  the  Boraitha  speaks 
of  when  it  was  in  a  place  where  he  could  make  a  drawing  to  one 
under  his  control).  Now  we  see  that  the  Boraitha  just  cited 
speaks  of  a  boat  that  was  placed  in  public  ground.  How,  then, 
is  to  be  understood  the  latter  part  of  it,  which  states:  And  the 
sages  say  title  is  not  given  unless  the  buyer  makes  a  drawing  ? 
Now,  if  it  was  in  public  ground,  from  whom  could  the  buyer 
hire  the  place  so  that  a  drawing  should  suffice  ?  And  aside 
from  this,  does,  then,  a  drawing  give  title  in  public  ground  ? 
Did  not  both  Abayi  and  Rabha  say  :  Transfer  gives  title  in 
public  ground,  and  also  in  a  yard  that  does  not  belong  to  both 
(the  seller  and  the  buyer)  ?  In  a  semita  (path),  however,  or  in 
a  yard  belonging  to  both,  drawing  gives  title,  and  "  lifting  up  " 
gives  title  everywhere  ?  The  expression  "  unless  he  makes  a 
drawing"  means  that  he  shall  move  from  the  public  ground  to 
the  semita,  and  the  expression  "  unless  he  hires  the  place"  is 
also  to  be  explained  as  meaning  that  if  it  happens  to  be  placed 
on  premises  belonging  to  one  of  them  title  is  not  given  unless 
he  hires  the  place. 

Shall  we  assume  that  Abayi  and  Rabha  both  are  in  accord- 
ance with  Rabbi  (who  holds  that  transferring  suffices  for  a 
boat)  ?  Said  R.  Ashi:  If  he  should  say:  "  Go  make  a  hazakah 
and  acquire  title,"  then  title  would  be  given.  Here,  however, 
it  is  understood  the  seller  told  him,  "  Go  make  a  drawing  and 
acquire  title."  And  the  point  of  their  differing  is,  one  holds 
that  the  seller  was  particular  with  his  words,  that  only  by  draw- 


I70  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

ing  title  should  be  given  (but  not  otherwise),  and  the  other 
holds  that  his  expression  is  to  be  considered  only  as  if  he  should 
show  him  the  place  where  it  is  to  be  found  {i.e.,  "  If  you  wish 
to  make  a  drawing,  here  it  is  "). 

R.  Papa  said:  If  one  sells  a  promissory  note,  he  must  write 
in  the  bill  of  sale,  "  Acquire  title  to  it,  and  to  all  the  debts  it 
contains." 

Said  R.  Ashi:  I  have  explained  the  Halakha  before  R. 
Kahana  and  questioned  him:  How  would  it  be  if  this  were  not 
inserted — would  not  title  be  given  ?  Did,  then,  the  buyer  need 
it  for  the  purpose  of  covering  a  glass  with  it  (is  it  possible  that 
a  man  should  invest  his  money  in  a  piece  of  paper  that  he  can- 
not use  but  to  cover  something — must  it  not  be  assumed  that 
he  bought  the  debts  which  it  contained)?  And  he  answered: 
Yea!  for  this  purpose  he  bought  it.  (And  if  the  amount  shows 
that  it  was  double  the  value  of  the  paper,  then  the  sale  would 
in  any  case  be  null  and  void,  as  exacting  beyond  a  sixth  makes 
the  sale  void.) 

Amemar  said:  The  Halakha  prevails  that  to  promissory 
notes  title  is  given  by  transfer  in  accordance  with  Rabbi.  Said 
R.  Ashi  to  Amemar:  Is  your  decision  traditional  or  according 
to  common  sense  ?  And  he  answered:  Traditional.  Rejoined 
R.  Ashi :  It  is  also  according  to  common  sense,  as  promissory 
notes  are  only  words.  (The  note  proper  does  not  contain  the 
debts  or  any  money,  but  the  promise  of  the  borrower,  which 
are  words,  and  title  cannot  be  given  by  words  only.) 

"But  7iot  the  entheca.''  What  does  this  mean  ?  It  means 
the  contents  of  the  entheca. 

MISHNA  //. :  If  one  sold  a  wagon,  the  bill  of  sale  does  not 
include  the  mules  for  it  (when  not  hitched),  and  vice  versa.  If 
the  yoke  with  the  wagon  were  sold,  the  oxen  when  not  hitched 
were  not  included,  and  vice  versa.  R.  Jehudah,  however,  main- 
tains: The  amount  paid  may  serve  as  evidence.  How  so  ?  If 
one  said:  Sell  to  me  your  yoke  for  two  hundred  zuz,  it  is  self- 
evident  that  he  meant  the  whole  team,  as  there  is  no  yoke  that 
could  be  worth  two  hundred  zuz.  The  sages,  however,  say  that 
such  cannot  be  taken  for  evidence  (as  it  may  be  he  desires  to 
make  him  a  present  without  humiliating  him). 

GEMARA:  R.  Ta'hlipha  b.  Merba  taught  a  Boraitha  before 
R.  Abuhu  :  If  one  has  sold  a  wagon,  the  sale  includes  the  mules. 
Said  R.  Abuhu:  But  our  Mishna  teaches  that  it  does  not.  Re- 
joined the  former:  Then  ignore  my  Boraitha.     Said  Abuhu:   It 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA    (LAST   GATE).  171 

is  not  necessary,  as  it  can  be  explained  that  your  Boraitha 
speaks  of  when  the  mules  were  hitched  to  the  wagon. 

"  If  one  has  sold  the  yoke,"  etc.  Let  us  see  how  was  the 
case?  If  people  by  the  expression  "yoke"  mean  the  yoke 
without  the  cattle,  then  it  is  self-evident  that  he  sold  him  the 
yoke  only;  and  if  the  expression  means  "  a  team,"  then  he  cer- 
tainly sold  him  the  whole  team  ?  It  speaks  of  a  place  in  which 
some  people  by  yoke  mean  the  entire  team,  while  others  by  this 
expression  mean  the  yoke  with  harness,  but  not  the  cattle. 
According  to  R.  Jehudah  this  can  be  ascertained  from  the 
amount;  but  the  rabbis  hold  that  the  amount  cannot  be  taken 
as  evidence  (as  it  is  for  the  buyer  to  explain  his  desire  plainly, 
as  there  are  some  who  by  yoke  mean  the  wagon  prepared  for 
the  oxen,  not  including  them,  and  therefore  the  preference  is 
given  to  the  seller). 

But  even  if  the  amount  is  not  an  evidence,  let  the  sale  be 
void  if  there  was  an  exaction  beyond  a  sixth  of  the  value.  And 
should  you  say  that  the  rabbis  do  not  hold  to  the  theory  that 
an  exaction  beyond  a  sixth  makes  void  the  sale  but  that  they 
hold  that  the  sale  is  valid,  and  the  seller  has  only  to  return  the 
amount  which  was  overcharged,  the  answer  is:  This  is  not  so, 
as  we  have  learned  in  Middle  Gate,  Mishna,  p.  132,  that  the 
rabbis  hold  this  theory?  Yea!  They  hold  the  theory  only  in 
a  case  where  an  exaction  could  be  made  {i.e.,  in  a  sixth  or  more 
of  the  value);  but  in  our  case  (two  hundred  zuz  for  the  yoke 
only),  where  exaction  cannot  be  made,  it  may  be  assumed  that 
the  buyer  wishes  to  give  a  present  to  the  seller  (but  does  not 
wish  to  humiliate  him,  and  so  presents  him  the  money  for  the  yoke). 

MISHNA  ///. :  If  one  sells  an  ass,  the  harness  is  not  in- 
cluded. Nahum  the  Modaite,  however,  maintains  it  is.  Said 
R.  Jehudah :  At  one  time  they  may  be  sold,  and  at  some  other 
time  they  may  not.  How  so  ?  If  the  ass  with  its  harness  was 
before  him,  and  the  buyer  says,  "  Sell  me  this  ass,"  and  the 
seller  agrees,  the  harness  is  also  sold;  but  if  he  says,  "  Is  this 
your  ass  ?  sell  it  to  me,"  then  the  harness  is  not  included. 

GEMARA:  Said  Ula:  The  first  Tana  and  Nahum  differ 
only  in  the  sacks  and  disacos  and  khumni,  as  the  first  Tana  holds 
that  usually  an  ass  is  bought  for  riding  (consequently  the  uten- 
sils that  are  not  for  this  purpose  are  not  included) ;  but  Nahum 
maintains  that  an  ass  is  usually  sold  for  carrying  burdens,  con- 
sequently the  utensils  for  this  purpose  are  included,  as  the  sad- 
dle, sumpter-saddle,  belt,  and  girdle. 


172  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

An  objection  was  raised  from  the  following:  "  I  sell  you  the 
ass  with  its  harness  "  :  the  saddle,  the  sumpter-saddle,  the  belt, 
and  the  girdle  are  sold,  but  not  the  sack,  the  disacos,  nor  the 
khumni,  unless  he  said,  "  it  and  all  pertaining  to  it";  then  all 
is  sold.  We  see,  then,  that  only  when  he  said,  "  the  ass  with 
its  harness,"  the  saddle,  etc.,  are  sold;  but  not,  if  he  did  not 
mention  the  harness?  Nay;  the  same  is  the  case  even  if  he 
did  not  so  mention,  and  the  Boraitha  comes  to  teach  that 
the  sack,  etc.,  are  not  sold,  even  if  he  said,  "  the  ass  with  its 
harness." 

What  does  khumni  mean  ?  Said  R.  Papa  b.  Samuel :  A 
saddle  used  by  females  only. 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question:  Does  the  Mishna 
treat  of  when  the  things  mentioned  above  were  upon  the  ass, 
so  that,  if  they  were  not  so,  Nalium  the  Modaite  would  agree 
with  the  first  Tana,  or,  on  the  contrary,  does  it  treat  of  when 
the  ass  was  not  dressed  in  them,  in  which  case  the  first  Tana 
would  agree  with  Nahum  ?  Come  and  hear!  If,  however,  he 
said,  "  it  and  all  that  is  upon  it,"  all  is  sold.  And  this  is  cor- 
rect according  to  the  supposition  that  they  differ  when  the  ass 
was  dressed  in  these  things,  and  the  Boraitha  is  in  accordance 
with  the  first  Tana  of  our  Mishna;  but  on  the  supposition  that 
they  differ  when  the  ass  was  not  dressed,  according  to  whom 
would  be  the  Boraitha  ?  Nay;  this  cannot  be  taken  for  a  sup- 
port, as  it  may  be  that  they  differ  even  when  the  ass  was  not 
dressed,  and  the  cited  Boraitha  is  to  be  read:  If  he  said,  "  the 
ass  and  all  those  things  in  my  possession  fit  for  its  use." 

Come,  then,  and  hear  what  R.  Jehudah  says  in  our  Mishna, 
and  there  is  no  doubt  that  he  speaks  of  when  the  ass  was  dressed 
in  them,  as  his  expression  "  this  ass"  means  all  is  sold.  Is  it 
not  to  be  assumed  that  this  was  an  answer  to  the  first  Tana 
(who  said  that  even  in  such  a  case  the  things  are  not  sold)  ? 
Nay!  R.  Jehudah  was  not  answering,  but  taught  a  separate 
Halakha.  Said  Rabhina  to  R.  Ashi:  Did  not  R.  Abuhu  say, 
replying  to  R.  Ta'hlipha  (above,  in  the  Gemara  to  the  second 
Mishna):  Explain  your  Boraitha,  "  When  they  were  hitched," 
etc.  ?  from  which  is  to  be  inferred  that  the  Mishna  speaks  of 
when  they  were  not  hitched;  and  when  the  second  Mishna  treats 
of  them  not  hitched,  it  must  be  assumed  that  the  third  Mishna 
also  speaks  of  the  same  case  ?  On  the  contrary,  take  the  first 
Mishna,  which  states,  "  not  the  slaves  nor  the  entheca  "  ;  and  to 
the  question  what  does  efttheca  mean,  R.  Papa  answered:  The 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  173 

contents  of  the  entheca.  Hence  the  Mishna  treats  of  when  the 
load  was  upon  it,  from  which  is  to  be  inferred  that  the  second 
Mishna  speaks  also  of  when  they  were  hitched  (and  this  is  not 
so).  Therefore  you  cannot  object  or  support  from  their  teach- 
ings, as  each  Mishna  speaks  of  a  different  case. 

Abayi  said:  R.  Eliezer,  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel,  R.  Meir, 
R.  Nathan,  Symmachos,  and  Nahum  the  Modaite  all  hold  that 
if  one  sells  a  thing  the  sale  includes  also  all  those  things  that 
are  used  with  it — Eliezer,  who  said :  If  one  sells  a  press-house, 
the  treading-rod  is  included;  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel,  who  said:  If 
one  sells  a  town,  \.\iQ:  santer  is  included;  R.  Meir,  who  said:  If 
one  sold  a  vineyard,  all  the  vessels  in  use  for  the  same  are 
included;  Nathan  and  Symmachos,  who  said  above  that  the 
safety  boats  are  included  in  the  sale  of  the  boat;  and  Nahum 
the  Modaite  with  his  statement  in  our  Mishna. 

"  R.  Jehudah  said,''  etc.  What  is  the  difference  whether 
he  said  "  this  ass,"  or  "  is  this  your  ass  "  ?  Said  Rabha:  If  he 
said  "  this  ass,"  he  was  sure  that  the  ass  belonged  to  him,  and 
with  the  word  "  this"  he  meant  the  harness;  but  if  he  asked 
him,  "  Is  this  your  ass  ? "  he  was  not  sure  it  was  his.  And  he 
asked,  if  it  was  his,  that  he  should  sell  it  to  him,  meaning  the 
ass  only,  without  the  harness. 

MISHNA  IV.:  If  one  sold  a  she-ass,  its  foal  is  sold;  but  if 
a  cow,  the  calf  is  not.  If  he  sold  the  place  where  the  manure  is 
kept,  the  manure  in  it  is  sold  therewith;  a  well,  the  water  it 
contains  is  included;  a  beehive,  the  bees  are  included;  a  pigeon- 
coop,  the  doves  it  contains  are  included. 

GEMARA:  Let  us  see  how  was  the  case  ?  If  he  said, 
"  with  its  offspring,"  even  if  it  is  a  cow  why  should  the  offspring 
then  not  be  included ;  and  if  he  did  not  say  so,  why  should  the 
offspring  of  an  ass  be  included  ?  Said  R.  Papa:  It  speaks  of 
where  he  told  him:  I  sell  you  a  nursing  ass,  or  a  nursing  cow. 
Of  the  latter  the  buyer  can  use  the  milk,  but  to  what  purpose 
did  he  say  a  nursing  ass  ?  We  must  assume  that  he  means  the 
nursing  ass  with  its  offspring.* 

"A  well,  the  water  it  contains  is  sold.''  Said  Rabha:  Our 
Mishna  is  in  accordance  with  an  individual  Tana  of  the  follow- 
ing Boraitha  (but  the  majority  do  not  agree  with  him).  If  one 
sells  a  well,  the  water  it  contains  is  not  included.  R.  Nathan, 
however,  maintains  it  is. 

*  The  Hagadah  here  we  also  transfer  to  the  end  of  the  chapter,  as  it  has  nothing 
to  do  with  this  text. 


174  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

MISHNA  v.:  If  one  buys  the  brood  of  a  pigeon-coop  {e.^., 
if  he  buys  in  the  month  Nisan  all  the  pigeons  to  be  hatched 
during  the  whole  year,  but  not  the  old  ones,  and  usually  each 
dove  hatches  two  young  ones  every  month,  male  and  female, 
and  those  pigeons  after  two  months  hatch  also,  and  so  it  is  dur- 
ing the  entire  year,  the  month  Adar  excluded),  he  must  leave 
the  first  pair  of  little  ones  with  the  parents.  If  one  buys  the 
brood  of  a  beehive,  he  has  to  take  the  first  three  broods,  after 
which  the  owner  may  make  the  bees  impotent  of  propagation. 
If  he  buys  the  honey  in  combs,  he  must  leave  two  with  the  bee- 
hive. If  one  buys  olive  trees  for  the  purpose  of  cutting  them 
down,  he  must  leave  the  branches  which  are  only  two  spans  high 
for  the  seller. 

GEMARA:  But  have  we  not  learned  in  a  Boraitha,  concern- 
ing a  pigeon-coop,  that  he  must  leave  the  first  and  second  pair  ? 
Said  R.  Kahana:  This  presents  no  diflRculty.  The  Mishna 
speaks  of  the  old  dove,  and  the  Boraitha  of  both  mother  and 
daughter  which  have  hatched — one  pair  for  the  old  and  one  for 
the  young  mother.  But  why  should  not  the  pair  left  for  the 
old  mother  suflfice  also  for  the  young  one,  as  she  would  not 
leave  the  pigeon-coop,  because  her  mother  and  the  pair  remain- 
ing would  bind  her  to  stay  there,  even  as  the  old  dove  is  bound 
to  the  same  ?  The  old  one  is  bound  to  both — to  the  young 
mother  as  well  as  to  the  pair  left,  while  her  daughter,  as  soon  as 
she  has  hatched,  has  no  longer  anything  to  do  with  her  mother, 
but  is  bound  to  her  children. 

"  TAree  broods,'"  etc.  By  what  means  does  one  make  them 
impotent?  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  By  feed- 
ing them  with  mustard.  In  Palestine,  however,  it  was  said  in 
the  name  of  R.  Jose  b.  Hanina:  Not  the  mustard,  but  the 
honey  which  they  consume  after  having  eaten  the  harsh  mus- 
tard, causes  the  impotency.  R.  Johanan  said:  He  must  not 
take  the  three  broods  at  one  time,  but  gradually,  taking  one 
and  leaving  one,  etc. ;  and  a  Boraitha  states  that  the  first  three 
he  may  take  one  after  another,  and  after  that  he  takes  one 
and  leaves  one.* 

"  Olive  trees,''  etc.  The  rabbis  taught:  If  one  buys  a  tree 
for  the  purpose  of  cutting  it  down,  he  must  begin  a  span  high 
from  the  ground;  if  it  was  an  uninoculated  sycamore,  he  must 


*  In  the  text  there  is  a  statement  of  R.  Elazar  repeated  several  times,  which  w« 
leave  for  the  forthcoming  Tract  Uktzin  at  the  proper  place. 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  175 

leave  three  spans;  and  if  a  trunk  of  a  sycamore,  two  spans.  If 
sticks  or  vines,  from  the  knots  upwards.  If  date  and  cedar 
trees,  he  may  take  them  with  the  roots,  for  if  they  were  cut  at 
the  top  they  would  not  grow  again. 

Do  we  need  three  spans  for  an  uninoculated  sycamore  ? 
Have  we  not  learned  (Shebiith,  IV.  5):  One  must  not  cut  an 
uninoculated  sycamore  on  a  Sabbatical  year,  because  it  is  con- 
sidered  a  labor  in  a  field  ?  R.  Jehudah  said:  One  must  not  do 
it  in  the  usual  way,  but  higher  than  ten  spans  he  may,  or  he 
may  cut  it  at  the  level  of  the  ground.  Hence  we  see  that  it 
harms  only  if  it  is  cut  at  the  level  of  the  ground,  but  not  if  a 
little  higher  than  three  spans.  Said  Abayi :  If  exactly  three 
spans,  it  is  beneficial  for  the  growth  of  the  tree,  and  at  the  level 
of  the  ground  it  surely  harms  it,  but  up  to  three  spans  it  does 
neither  good  nor  harm.  Concerning  a  Sabbatical  year,  only 
what  harms  maybe  done;  and  concerning  buying  and  selling, 
only  things  which  are  beneficial. 

It  is  said  that  date  and  cedar  trees  one  may  take  with  the 
roots,  because  if  cut  at  the  top  they  will  not  improve.  Has  not 
R.  Hyya  b.  Luliyni  lectured  that  it  is  written  [Ps.  xxxii.  13]: 
"  The  righteous  shall  spring  up  like  a  palm  tree,  like  a  cedar," 
etc.  ?  Why  are  both  trees  mentioned  ?  If  it  mentioned  the 
cedar  only,  one  might  say:  As  the  cedar  does  not  yield  any 
products,  so  is  the  upright.  Therefore  it  mentions  the  palm 
tree.  And  if  the  latter  only  were  mentioned,  one  might  say: 
As  a  palm  tree  does  not  improve  after  being  cut  off,  so  is  the 
righteous.  Therefore  both  are  mentioned.  Hence  we  see  that 
a  cedar  does  improve  ?  This  speaks  of  another  kind  of  cedar 
which  does  so.  As  Rabba  b.  R.  Huna  said  (Taanith,  p.  75): 
There  are  ten  different  kinds  of  cedars. 

MISHNA  V/.:  If  one  buy  two  trees  within  his  neighbor's 
field,  the  ground  beneath  is  not  sold.  R.  Meir,  however,  main- 
tains it  is.  If  the  branches  were  wide-spreading,  the  seller  has 
no  right  to  cut  them  off,  though  the  shade  of  them  harms  his 
field.  That  which  grows  from  the  trunk  belongs  to  the  buyer, 
and  that  from  the  roots  to  the  seller.  If  the  trees  die,  the 
buyer  has  no  right  to  the  ground ;  however,  if  he  bought  three 
trees,  the  ground  is  included,  and  if  the  branches  become  wide- 
spreading,  the  owner  of  the  ground  may  cut  them  off,  and  all 
that  is  growing  from  both  trunks  and  roots  belongs  to  the 
buyer;  and  if  the  trees  die,  he  has  the  right  to  plant  others. 

GEMARA:  There  is  a  Mishna  (Bikurim,  I.  6):  If  one  buy 


176  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

two  trees  within  his  neighbor's  ground,  he  may  offer  the  first- 
fruit,  but  he  must  not  read  [Deut.  xxvi.  lo]  :  "  The  soil  which 
thou  hast  given  to  me,''  as  the  earth  is  not  his.  R.  Meir,  how- 
ever, said:  He  may  offer  and  also  read.  Said  R.  Jehudah  in 
the  name  of  Samuel:  According  to  R.  Meir,  one  is  obliged  to 
offer  the  firstfruit,  even  if  he  bought  it  in  the  market.  And 
whence  has  he  inferred  it  ?  From  the  superfluous  Mishna — i.e., 
it  is  already  said  in  our  Mishna  that  he  who  buys  even  two  trees 
has  bought  the  ground  therewith  according  to  R.  Meir.  Why, 
then,  was  it  necessary  to  repeat  that  in  the  cited  Mishna  ?  We 
must  say  that  only  to  teach  that,  even  if  one  does  not  possess 
any  ground,  he  is  nevertheless  obliged  to  offer  the  firstfruit  if 
he  possesses  such,  even  from  the  market  (and  the  cited  Mishna 
is  to  be  explained  thus:  R.  Meir  said  to  the  first  Tana:  Even 
if  I  should  agree  with  you  that  the  one  who  buys  the  two  trees 
does  not  possess  any  ground,  he  is  nevertheless  obliged  to  offer 
the  firstfruit).  But  is  it  not  written  [Deut.  xxvi.  2] :  "  Which 
thou  shalt  bring  in  from  thy  land"  ?  This  is  to  exclude  the 
land  outside  of  Palestine.  But  is  it  not  written  [Ex.  xxiii.  19]: 
"  The  first  of  the  firstfruits  of  thy  land  shalt  thou  bring,"  etc.? 
This  is  to  exclude  the  ground  of  a  Gentile.  But  is  it  not  writ- 
ten [Deut.  ibid.] :  "  Which  thou  hast  given  7ne  "  f  This  means, 
"  thou  hast  given  me  money  to  buy." 

Rabba  objected  from  the  following:  If  one  bought  one  tree 
within  the  trees  of  his  neighbor,  he  may  bring  the  firstfruit;  but 
does  not  read,  "  .  .  .  thou  hast  given,"  because  he  has  no 
ground.  So  is  the  decree  of  R.  Meir.  Hence  we  see  that  if 
he  has  no  ground  he  cannot  read,  "  the  earth  thou  hast  given." 
This  objection  remains. 

Said  R.  Simeon  b.  Elyakum  to  R.  Elazar:  On  what  reasons 
did  R.  Meir  base  his  theory  concerning  one  tree,  and  the  rabbis 
theirs  concerning  two  trees — that  the  men  should  bring  the 
firstfruit  and  should  not  read  ?  Does  not  the  Scripture  exclude 
him  from  bringing  also?  Said  R.  Elazar  to  him:  Concerning 
a  thing  for  which  one  previous  master  gave  no  reason  you  are 
questioning  me  in  the  college  for  the  purpose  of  bringing  me  to 
shame  ?  Said  Rabba:  I  do  not  see  any  difficulty  in  it,  as  it  may 
be  assumed  that  the  rabbis,  as  well  as  R.  Meir,  were  doubtful 
as  to  the  accuracy  of  the  law:  the  rabbis  could  not  absolutely 
decide  that  he  who  bought  two  trees  had  no  ground,  and  R, 
Meir  could  not  be  certain  concerning  one  tree,  and  therefore 
they  decided  he  should  bring,  but  not  read. 


TRACT    BABA   BATHRA    (LAST   GATE).  177 

But  how  can  you  say  that  R.  Meir  was  doubtful — did  he  not 
plainly  say  above,  because  he  has  not  acquired  title  to  the 
ground?  Read:  "Perhaps  he  has  not  acquired  title,"  etc. 
But  according  to  both,  why  should  the  man  in  question  bring  ? 
Suppose  that,  according  to  law,  they  are  not  considered  first- 
fruit  at  all,  and  that  he  brings  common  fruits  to  the  sanctuary, 
which  is  prohibited — i.e.,  that  he  first  sanctified  them.  But  the 
fruit  must  be  consumed  by  the  priests,  and  if  they  are  not  con- 
sidered firstfruit,  they  are  consecrated  for  an  offering  or  for 
another  purpose,  and  it  is  prohibited  that  any  one  should  derive 
benefit  therefrom — i.e.,  after  he  brings  them,  he  redeems  them. 
But  even  then,  if  they  are  not  considered  firstfruit,  they  are 
liable  to  separate  "  heave-offering  and  tithe  ";  and  by  bringing 
them  he  exempts  them  from  these  duties — i.e.,  he  previously 
separates  the  above  from  them.  This  can  be  correct  concerning 
heave-offering,  which  belongs  to  the  priest,  and  the  same  con- 
cerning "  second  tithe  "  ;  and  also  the  "  tithe  for  the  poor  "  he 
may  give  to  a  poor  priest,  but  to  whom  shall  he  give  the  first 
tithe  that  belongs  to  the  Levite,  as  the  Levite  must  not  derive 
any  benefit  from  consecrated  things  ?  This  he  may  also  give  to 
the  priest  in  accordance  with  R.  Elazar  b.  Azaryha  of  the  fol- 
lowing Boraitha:  Heave-offering  must  be  given  to  the  priest, 
first  tithe  to  the  Levite.  So  is  the  decree  of  R.  Aqiba.  R. 
Elazar  b.  Azaryha,  however,  maintains  that  even  the  first  tithe 
may  be  given  to  the  priest  (after  Ezra  fined  the  Levites).  But 
if  they  are  considered  firstfruit,  the  reading  of  the  passages  is 
obligatory  ?  The  obligation  does  not  prevent  the  bringing.  As 
R.  Jose  b.  Hanina  said  elsewhere:  If  one  has  gathered  the  first- 
fruit, and  sent  it  by  a  messenger  who  died  while  on  the  road, 
then  the  firstfruit  may  be  brought  into  the  sanctuary;  but  the 
passages  should  not  be  read,  for  it  is  written  [Deut.  xxvi.  2] : 
"  Thou  shalt  take,"  and  farther  on,  "  Thou  shalt  go,"  etc., 
which  means  that  the  gathering  as  well  as  the  bringing  should 
be  done  by  one  person,  and  as  the  messenger  is  dead  the  reading 
cannot  take  place. 

Said  R.  A'ha  b.  R.  Ivya  to  R.  Ashi :  Let  us  see  !  The  read- 
ing consists  of  passages  from  the  Scripture,  which  are  allowed 
to  be  read  by  every  one  and  at  any  time.  Let  him  then  read, 
"  And  he  answered  "  :  when  he  reads  this  with  the  bringing,  it 
looks  like  a  lie,  which  is  not  the  case  when  he  reads  the  Scrip- 
ture. 

R.  Mesharshia  b.  R.  Hyya  said :  The  reason  is  that  if  the 


178  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

reading  were  allowed,  another,  who  has  similar  fruit,  might 
think  that  such  is  really  considered  firstfruit,  and  will  not  sepa- 
rate the  heave-offering  therefrom. 

"  If  the  branches  were  wide -spreading.'*  What  is  to  be  con- 
sidered trunk,  and  what  roots?  Said  R.  Johanan:  All  above 
the  surface  of  the  ground  is  considered  trunk,  and  beneath 
roots.  But  suppose  that  an  upheaval  should  occur  that  will 
cover  the  trunk  so  that  the  branches  shall  have  the  appearance 
of  three  trees,  and  then  the  buyer  may  claim :  You  sold  me 
three  trees,  and  I  have  a  right  to  the  ground.  Therefore  said 
R.  Na'hman:  The  expression  in  the  Mishna,  "  from  the  trunk 
belongs  to  the  buyer,"  means  as  to  cutting  it  down,  but  not  to 
leaving  it.     And  thus  also  said  R.  Johanan. 

R.  Na'hman  said:  We  have  a  tradition  that  a  date  tree  has 
no  trunk.  R.  Zebid  was  about  to  explain  R.  Na'hman's  state- 
ment by  what  our  Mishna  states,  that  if  such  a  tree  is  cut  on 
the  top  it  does  not  further  increase,  and  therefore  the  buyer 
cannot  claim  a  right  to  the  outgrowth  of  the  trunk,  as,  the 
remainder  of  the  tree  being  only  for  removal,  he  renounced  his 
hope  to  derive  any  benefit  therefrom.  To  which  R.  Papa  op- 
posed the  statement  in  our  Mishna  that  he  who  bought  two 
trees  which  are  also  for  removal  has  no  right  to  the  ground,  and 
nevertheless  he  has  a  right  to  the  outgrowth  of  the  trunk  ? 
*'  Therefore,"  said  he,  "  R.  Na'hman  means  that  it  can  never 
occur  that  trunks  of  date  trees  may  bring  forth  outgrowths." 

But  does  not  the  Mishna  oppose  R.  Zebid's  theory  ?  He 
may  say:  The  Mishna  treats  of  a  case  in  which  the  buyer  bought 
the  trees  for  the  term  of  five  years  {i.e.,  if  it  should  happen  that 
in  the  meantime  they  shall  die,  he  has  a  right  to  plant  others 
instead),  and  therefore  he  has  a  right  also  to  the  outgrowth  of 
the  trunks. 

''  If  he  has  bought  trees,''  etc.  To  what  extent  of  ground 
has  he  acquired  title  ?  Said  R.  Hyya  b.  Abba  in  the  name  of 
R.  Johanan :  He  acquires  title  to  the  ground  beneath  the 
branches  and  that  between  them;  and  outside,  to  the  extent 
that  he  may  stand  with  his  basket  to  gather  the  fruit  from  the 
outside  branches.  R.  Elazar  opposed :  How  is  it  possible  that 
this  should  be  granted  to  the  buyer,  when  even  a  path  through 
the  field  is  not  granted,  as  he  has  not  any  right  to  the  ground 
which  is  outside  of  the  trees  ? 

Said  R.  Zera:  From  the  teaching  of  our  master  (R.  Elazar) 
we  may  learn  that  if  he  bought  three  trees  he  has  no  path,  but 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  179 

if  he  bought  two  trees  he  has,  as  he  may  claim :  The  trees  are 
situated  on  your  ground,  and  as  you  have  sold  me  trees  situated 
on  your  ground,  so  also  have  you  granted  me  a  path  to  them. 

Said  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak  to  Rabha:  Shall  we  assume  that 
R.  Elazar  does  not  agree  with  his  master  Samuel,  who  said  that 
the  Halakha  prevails  in  accordance  with  R.  Aqiba,  who  holds 
that  usually  the  seller  sells  with  a  good  eye  (and  according  to 
this  theory,  if  he  sold  him  three  trees  he  granted  him  also  a  path 
to  them).  And  he  answered :  Our  Mishna  cannot  be  in  accord- 
ance with  R.  Aqiba,  as  it  states  that  when  the  branches  are 
wide-spreading  the  seller  has  the  right  to  clear  them,  and  in 
accordance  with  R.  Aqiba,  this  right  could  not  be  given  to  him, 
for  the  supposition  is  that  he  sold  them  with  a  good  eye.  Re- 
joined R.  Na'hman :  We  have  heard  R.  Aqiba  saying  so  only 
concerning  a  well,  etc.,  which  does  not  impoverish  the  ground; 
but  have  you  heard  him  saying  so  concerning  a  tree,  which  does  ? 
Does  not  R.  Aqiba  agree  that,  in  a  case  in  which  the  branches 
of  a  tree  overhang  the  field  of  another,  he  may  clear  the  size  of 
a  plough  handle  ? 

There  is  a  Boraitha  in  accordance  with  R.  Hyya  b.  Aba  that 
the  buyer  of  three  trees  acquires  title  to  the  ground  beneath, 
between,  and  outside  to  the  extent  that  he  can  stand  there  with 
a  basket  in  the  hand.  Said  Abayi  to  R.  Joseph :  Who  has  a 
right  to  sow  the  outside  ground  that  belongs  to  the  buyer  (the 
buyer  of  the  trees,  to  whom  it  belongs,  or  the  owner  of  the 
ground,  who  allows  the  buyer  to  be  present  there  only  at  the 
time  of  gathering — therefore  he  may  sow  it,  and  the  buyer  has 
a  right  to  step  on  it  at  that  time)  ?  And  he  answered :  This  we 
have  learned  in  the  Mishna  farther  on,  that  the  outsider  may 
sow  the  path  which  leads  to  the  inside  field.  Rejoined  Abayi: 
What  comparison  is  this  ?  There  the  buyer  of  the  inner  field 
does  not  suffer  any  damage  when  he  steps  on  the  sown  path  to 
his  field ;  but  here,  if  the  owner  of  the  ground  should  sow  it, 
there  is  a  damage  to  the  buyer  of  the  trees  in  not  having  the 
products  of  the  ground  belonging  to  him.  Therefore  if  this 
case  should  be  compared  to  the  one  in  the  cited  Mishna,  it  is 
only  to  the  latter  part,  which  states  that  neither  of  them  has 
a  right  to  sow.  There  is  a  Boraitha  in  accordance  with  Abayi, 
which  states  plainly  that  neither  of  them  has  a  right  to  sow. 

How  much  space  is  to  be  left  between  the  trees  in  question, 
that  it  should  be  considered  the  buyer's  ?  R.  Joseph  in  the 
name  of  R.  Jehudah,  quoting  Samuel,  said:  From  four  to  eight 


i8o  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

ells.  And  Rabha  in  the  name  of  R.  Na'hman,  quoting  Samuel, 
said:  From  eight  to  sixteen.  Said  Abayi  to  R.  Joseph:  Do 
not  quarrel  with  R.  Na'hman,  as  there  is  a  Mishna  (Kilaim, 
IV.  9)  in  accordance  with  him:  If  one  has  planted  his  vineyard 
sixteen  ells  square,  he  may  sow  other  seeds  between  the  rows. 
And  R.  Jehudah  said :  It  happened  in  the  city  of  Zalmon  that 
one  had  planted  his  vineyard  sixteen  ells  square.  One  year  he 
trained  the  branches  of  every  two  rows  in  one  direction,  and 
sowed  in  the  opposite  direction ;  and  the  next  year  he  trained 
the  branches  in  another  direction,  and  sowed  on  the  ground  that 
had  lain  fallow.  And  when  the  matter  was  brought  before  the 
sages,  they  sanctioned  it  [his  manner  of  proceeding].  And  he 
answered:  I  took  my  theory  from  such  a  case  as  happened  in 
the  village  of  the  shepherds,  which  was  brought  before  R.  Jehu- 
dah, and  he  decided  to  give  them  space  for  a  yoke  of  oxen  with 
the  harness  thereof;  but.  I  did  not  know  the  measure  of  such  a 
space,  and  after  I  had  given  my  attention  to  a  Mishna  stated 
above,  as  follows:  "  One  must  not  plant  a  tree  near  his  neigh- 
bor's field  unless  he  leaves  four  ells  space,"  and  a  Boraitha  in 
addition  to  this  states  the  four  ells  mentioned  are  for  the  pur- 
pose of  working  up  a  vineyard  (as  explained  above,  p.  78),  I 
inferred  from  this  that  the  measure  of  a  yoke  with  the  harness 
is  four  ells.  But  is  there  not  a  Mishna  (Kilaim,  IV.  9)  in  accord- 
ance with  R.  Joseph:  Beth  R.  Meir  and  R.  Simeon  say:  If  one 
plants  his  vineyard  eight  ells  square,  he  is  permitted  to  sow 
other  seeds  therein  ?  Yea;  nevertheless,  a  practised  act  is  more 
important  for  evidence. 

It  is  correct  in  accordance  with  R.  Joseph,  which  is  accord- 
ing to  R.  Simeon's  theory,  as  we  have  heard  that  R.  Simeon's 
theory  equals  both  cases,  when  the  vines  are  scattered  and  also 
when  they  are  growing  together — "  scattered,"  from  the  Mishna 
just  cited,  and  "  growing  together,"  from  the  following  Mishna: 
A  vineyard  which  is  planted  in  less  than  four  ells  is  not  to  be 
considered  a  vineyard  at  all.  So  is  the  decree  of  R.  Simeon, 
etc.  But  according  to  R.  Na'hman,  who  is  in  accord  with  the 
rabbis'  theory,  we  have  heard  their  opinion  concerning  scattered 
ones  (as  said  above  in  the  case  of  Zalmon);  but  have  you  also 
heard  their  opinion  about  growing  together  ?  This  is  common 
sense.  As  R.  Simeon  considers  the  half  space  in  his  theory  of 
growing  together,  the  same  is  the  case  with  the  rabbis:  they 
also  consider  the  half  space  in  their  theory  of  growing  together. 

Said  Rabha:    The  Halakha  prevails — from  four  to  sixteen 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  i8i 

ells;  and  there  is  a  Boraitha  which  supports  him  as  follows: 
What  is  meant  by  being  near  one  to  another  ?  Four  ells.  And 
what  is  meant  by  being  far  ?  Sixteen  ells.  In  the  latter  case, 
if  one  bought  the  trees  he  bought  also  the  ground,  and  also  the 
shrubs  between;  and,  therefore,  if  it  happens  that  a  tree  withers 
or  is  cut  off,  the  ground  remains  his.  If,  however,  it  were  less 
or  more  than  the  above  space,  or  he  bought  the  trees  not  at  one 
time,  but  one  after  another,  the  ground  and  the  shrubs  between 
do  not  belong  to  him ;  and,  therefore,  if  a  tree  becomes  withered 
or  is  cut  off,  he  has  no  right  to  the  ground  (to  plant  another 
in-stead). 

R.  Jeremiah  questioned:  How  should  the  ground  belonging 
to  the  buyer  be  measured — from  the  end  of  the  branches  or 
from  the  trunk  (so  that  he  would  have  more  space  than  by 
measuring  from  the  branches)  ?  And  R.  Gibiahh  from  the  city 
of  Khthil  said  to  R.  Ashi :  Come  and  hear  the  following  Mishna 
[Kilaim,  VII.  i]:  If  a  vine  has  been  bent  in  such  a  manner  that 
the  main  stem  is  out  of  sight  [underground],  the  measure  [as  to 
legal  distance]  must  be  calculated  from  the  second  stem — i.e., 
the  place  where  it  rises  from  the  ground  and  again  becomes  visi- 
ble. R.  Jeremiah  questioned  again:  How  is  the  law  if  one  has 
sold  a  tree  of  which  the  branches  are  separated  by  four  ells  from 
one  another:  And  the  above  R.  Gibiahh  said  to  R.  Ashi:  Come 
and  hear  the  second  Mishna  [ibid.,  ibid.]:  If  three  vines  are 
bent  [and  partly  covered  with  mould]  and  their  stems  remain 
visible,  R.  Elazar  ben  Zadok  said :  If  there  remain  between 
them  not  less  than  four  and  not  exceeding  five  ells  in  width, 
they  [the  vines]  must  be  looked  upon  as  connected;  otherwise, 
they  are  not  to  be  so  considered. 

R.  Papa  questioned:  If  one  has  sold  two  trees  situated  in 
his  field  and  one  on  the  boundary,  are  they  to  be  counted 
together,  or  not  ?  The  same  question  arises  when  one  has  sold 
two  situated  on  his  own  ground  and  one  on  his  neighbor's,  and 
both  questions  remain  undecided.  R.  Ashi  questioned :  (If  in 
the  above  questions  it  were  decided  that  they  should  be  counted 
together,)  how  is  the  law  if  there  were  a  well,  or  a  channel,  or 
intervention  by  a  public  ground  or  a  row  of  young  trees  ?  This 
question  also  remains  undecided. 

Hillel  questioned  Rabbi:  If  a  cedar  tree  intervened,  how  is 
the  law  ?  And  he  answered :  Then  title  is  given  to  him  in  the 
trees,  as  well  as  in  the  cedar.  How  should  the  trees  be  situated 
so  that  the  sixteen  ells  in  question  should  be  measured  ?    Ac- 


i82  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

cording  to  Rabh  in  a  row  (...)  and  according  to  Samuel  diag- 
onally ( •  .  • ) ;  and  the  difference  is,  that  according  to  him  who 
said  "  in  a  row  "  the  ground  belongs  to  the  buyer,  so  much  the 
more  when  they  are  situated  diagonally;  while  according  to  him 
who  says  "  diagonally,"  if  they  are  in  a  row  the  ground  does 
not  belong  to  the  buyer,  as  if  in  a  row  the  ground  between  is  fit 
for  sowing.  R.  Hamnuna  opposed:  According  to  the  theory 
that  if  they  were  placed  diagonally  the  ground  belongs  to  the 
buyer  only  for  the  reason  that  such  a  ground  is  not  fit  for  sow- 
ing, how  would  it  be  if  one  should  sell  three  thorns  which  are 
called  Higi  Riiniitha,  the  ground  between  which  is  also  unfit 
for  sowing — shall  we  also  assume  that  the  ground  belongs  to 
him  ?  And  he  was  answered  that  the  thorns  in  question  are  of 
little  value,  which  is  not  the  case  with  the  trees  in  question 
(and  the  law  dictates  both  that  the  trees  should  be  of  value  and 
the  ground  between  unfit  for  sowing). 

MISHNA  VII.'.  If  one  sold  the  head  of  a  cow,  the  feet  are 
not  included,  and  vice  versa;  the  windpipe,  the  liver  is  not 
included,  and  vice  versa.  However,  concerning  a  calf,  the  feet 
are  included  in  the  sale  of  a  head,  and  vice  versa  ;  and  the  same 
is  the  case  with  the  windpipe  and  the  liver. 

There  are  four  legal  customs  concerning  sales:  If  one  alleges 
having  sold  good  wheat  and  thereafter  it  was  found  to  be  bad, 
the  buyer  may  retract;  if  he  alleged  having  sold  bad  and  there- 
after it  was  found  good,  the  seller  may  retract.  If,  however, 
it  was  found  as  alleged,  neither  of  them  can  retract  (although 
from  the  sale  of  the  wheat  to  the  delivery  the  price  for  same 
has  increased  or  decreased).  If  one  sold  dark  red  wheat  and  it 
was  found  to  be  white,  or  vice  versa  ;  trees  of  olives,  and  they 
were  found  to  be  sycamore,  or  vice  versa  ;  wine,  if  it  was  found 
to  be  vinegar,  or  vice  versa — both  have  a  right  to  retract. 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Hisda:  If  one  has  sold  wheat  worth 
five  zuz  for  six,  and  subsequently  it  increases  to  eight,  who  was 
imposed  on  prior  to  the  increase  ?  The  buyer.  Therefore  the 
right  of  retraction  from  the  sale  is  given  to  him  only,  but  not  to 
the  seller,  as  the  buyer  may  say:  If  you  had  not  imposed  on  me 
in  the  beginning,  you  could  not  retract  from  the  sale  even  if  the 
price  increased,  and  having  imposed  on  me,  should  you  have 
the  right  to  retract  ?  And  it  was  learned  in  our  Mishna  that  if 
one  alleged  having  sold  good  and  it  was  found  bad,  the  right  of 
retraction  was  given  to  the  buyer  and  not  to  the  seller,  even  if 
it  had  increased  in  price  more  than  the  seller  took. 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  183 

The  same  said  again :  If  one  has  sold  for  five  the  value  of 
six,  and  thereafter  it  lowered  to  three  zuz,  who  was  imposed  on 
prior  to  that  decrease  ?  The  seller.  The  right  to  retract  is 
only  for  him  and  not  for  the  buyer,  for  the  reason  stated  above, 
that  the  seller  may  say  to  the  buyer:  If  I  had  not  been  imposed 
on  in  the  beginning,  you  could  not  retract  though  the  price 
should  decrease,  and  inasmuch  as  I  have  been  imposed  on, 
should  you  have  such  a  right  ?  And  so  teaches  our  Mishna:  If 
one  alleges  having  sold  bad,  and  thereafter  good  was  found,  the 
right  of  retraction  is  given  to  the  seller  and  not  to  the  buyer. 

But  what  then  came  R.  Hisda  to  teach  ?  Does  not  the 
Mishna  state  so  ?  Without  his  statement,  one  might  say  that 
according  to  the  Mishna,  in  those  cases  illustrated  by  R.  Hisda, 
both  have  a  right  to  retract,  as  there  was  imposition  in  the 
beginning  of  the  sale  (while  the  Mishna  treats  of  where  no  im- 
position took  place),  and  therefore  R.  Hisda  came  to  teach  us 
that  the  Mishna  must  be  interpreted  according  to  his  illustration. 

"  Wine,  and  it  was  found  vinegar.''  Shall  we  assume  that 
our  Mishna  is  in  accordance  with  Rabbi,  and  not  with  the  rabbis 
of  the  following  Boraitha  ?  Wine  and  vinegar  are  considered 
one  kind,  concerning  heave-offering  (so  that  if  he  has  separated 
troomah  from  the  wine  for  the  vinegar  also,  or  vice  versa,  it  is 
valid).  Rabbi,  however,  maintains  that  it  is  not,  because  they 
are  two  separate  kinds  ?  Nay!  Our  Mishna  may  be  in  accord- 
ance with  the  rabbis  also,  as  they  differ  with  Rabbi  only  con- 
cerning tithe  and  heave-offering,  and  it  is  in  accordance  with  R. 
Ilaha,  who  has  inferred  elsewhere  from  the  Scripture  that  if  one 
has  separated  tithe  or  troomah  from  the  bad,  for  the  good  ones 
of  the  same  kind  (grain  or  fruit),  his  action  is  valid ;  but  con- 
cerning selling  and  buying  the  rabbis  also  agree  that  the  one 
who  desires  wine  cannot  be  satisfied  with  vinegar,  and  vice  versa. 

MISHNA  VIII. :  If  one  has  sold  fruit,  and  the  buyer  has 
made  a  drawing  on  it,  although  it  was  not  as  yet  measured,  title 
is  given,  but  not  if  it  was  measured  for  him,  and  the  drawing 
has  not  taken  place;  and  if  the  buyer  were  shrewd,  he  would 
hire  the  place  where  the  fruit  is  to  be  measured,  so  that  the 
seller  should  not  have  the  right  to  retract  even  before  the  draw- 
ing is  made. 

If  one  buys  flax,  title  is  not  given  unless  he  removes  it  from 
one  place  to  another;  but  if  the  flax  was  still  attached  to  the 
ground,  and  the  buyer  pulled  up  some  of  it,  title  is  given. 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Assi  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan:  If  he 


i84  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

has  measured  it,  and  placed  it  on  the  semita  (path)  for  the  buyer, 
title  is  given.  Said  R.  Zera  to  him:  Perhaps  the  master  has 
heard  from  R.  Johanan  that  he  has  measured  and  put  it  in  the 
basket  of  the  buyer.  And  he  answered :  The  question  of  this 
scholar  is  similar  to  that  of  men  who  do  not  understand  a  Hala- 
kha  at  all,  for  is  it  then  needed  to  teach  that  title  is  given  if  the 
seller  puts  it  in  the  basket  of  the  buyer  ? 

(Says  the  Gemara:)  Has  R.  Zera  accepted  R.  Assi's  theory, 
or  not  ?  Come  and  hear!  R.  Yanai  said  in  the  name  of  Rabbi : 
If  the  yard  where  the  fruit  was  placed  belonged  to  both  the 
seller  and  buyer,  title  is  given  to  the  latter. 

Is  it  not  assumed  that  title  is  given  even  if  it  was  placed  on 
the  ground  of  the  yard  ?  Nay ;  it  means  if  it  was  placed  in  the 
basket  of  the  buyer;  and  it  seems  to  be  so,  as  R.  Jacob  in  the 
name  of  R.  Johanan  said:  If  after  measuring  he  puts  it  on 
the  semita,  title  is  not  given.  And  as  this  would  contradict  the 
above  statement  of  R.  Assi  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan,  we 
must  then  say  that  one  has  heard  from  him  when  the  basket  of 
the  buyer  was  placed  on  the  semita,  and  from  the  other,  when 
the  basket  of  the  buyer  was  not.  Infer  from  this  that  R.  Zera 
had  not  accepted.  Come  and  hear  another  objection !  But 
when  measured,  and  a  drawing  was  not  made,  title  is  not  given. 
Does  this  not  mean  in  the  semita?  Nay;  it  means  "public 
ground."  If  so,  how  is  the  first  part  to  be  understood:  "  If  he 
has  made  a  drawing,  but  not  measured,  title  is  given."  Does, 
then,  a  drawing  give  title  in  public  ground  ?  Is  it  not  said 
above,  p.  169,  that  in  public  ground  only  transferring  gives  title, 
but  not  drawing?  The  expression  "  drawing"  means  that  he 
removed  it  from  the  public  ground  to  the  semita.  But  how 
about  the  latter  part:  "  If  the  buyer  is  shrewd,  he  hires  the 
place,"  etc.?  If  it  speaks  of  a  public  ground,  from  whom  can 
he  hire  it  ?  It  means  to  say,  if  it  still  remained  on  the  prem- 
ises of  the  owner,  then  if  the  buyer  is  shrewd  he  will  hire  the 
place. 

Both  Rabh  and  Samuel  said:  The  vessels  of  the  buyer  give 
title  to  him  in  every  place,  except  on  public  ground.  R.  Jo- 
hanan and  R.  Simeon  b.  Lakish  both  are  of  the  opinion  that  it 
gives  title  even  when  on  public  ground.  Said  R.  Papa:  The 
above  parties  do  not  differ,  as  the  latter  speaks  of  a  semita; 
and  why  they  call  it  public  ground  is  because  it  is  not  private 
ground.  (Says  the  Gemara:)  It  seems  to  be  so,  as  R.  Abuhu 
said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan:  The  vessels  of  one  give  him 


TRACT    BAB  A    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  185 

title  in  every  place  where  it  is  permitted  to  him  to  place  them. 
Hence  we  see  that  only  to  those  places  where  it  is  permitted  to 
him  to  place  them  is  title  given,  but  not  to  public  ground  where 
one  is  not  permitted  to  place  one's  vessels.  Come  and  hear  the 
following  Tosephtha:  There  are  four  legal  customs  concerning 
sellers:  {a)  If  the  measure  does  not  belong  to  both  of  them  and 
it  was  placed  on  public  ground,  or  in  a  yard  that  does  not  belong 
to  both,  then,  if  the  measure  was  not  as  yet  filled  up  and  the 
seller  wishes  for  some  reason  to  recede  from  his  sale,  he  may  do 
so;  but  if  it  was  filled  up,  then  it  is  considered  already  the 
buyer's  (as  it  is  supposed  that  for  this  purpose  it  was  lent  to  the 
buyer,  that  as  soon  as  filled  he  might  take  it  with  its  contents) ; 
{b)  if  the  measure  belongs  to  one  of  them,  to  every  atom  that 
is  put  in  the  measure  the  owner  of  the  measure  acquires  title, 
provided  it  was  at  those  places  named  above;  {c)  if  it  was  on  the 
premises  of  the  seller,  the  buyer  does  not  acquire  title  unless  he 
lifts  it  up  or  removes  it  from  the  seller's  premises;  and  {d)  if  it 
was  on  the  premises  of  the  buyer,  as  soon  as  the  seller  agreed 
to  sell  him  the  grain  for  such  and  such  a  price  the  buyer  has 
acquired  title.  If,  however,  the  grain  in  question  was  deposited 
previously  by  the  seller  without  the  intention  of  selling  it,  and 
thereafter  the  depositary  bought  it  from  him,  title  is  not  given 
unless  the  seller  agrees  to  renounce  his  right  to  the  place  where 
the  grain  is  now  placed,  or  the  buyer  hires  it.  We  see,  then, 
that  if  the  measure  was  filled  up  title  is  given  to  the  buyer,  even 
if  it  was  on  the  public  ground  ?  Also,  here,  by  public  ground 
is  meant  2.  semita  ;  but  if  so,  why  the  repetition,  "  a  yard  that 
does  not  belong  to  both"  ?  Is  it  not  the  same  as  a  semita? 
By  this  expression  is  also  meant  that  the  whole  yard  does  not 
belong  to  one  of  them,  as  they  were  partners  in  it. 

R.  Shesheth  questioned  R.  Huna:  If  the  vessels  of  the  buyer 
were  placed  on  the  premises  of  the  seller,  does  the  buyer  acquire 
title  or  not  ?  And  he  answered:  This  we  have  learned  (Githin, 
I.  i):  "  If  he  put  the  divorce  in  the  pocket  of  her  dress  or  in 
her  basket,  she  is  divorced"  (hence  we  see  that  one's  vessels 
give  him  title).  Said  R.  Na'hman  to  R.  Huna:  Why  have  you 
decided  this  question  from  that  Mishna  which  was  objected  to, 
and  there  were  about  a  hundred  explanations  of  the  meaning  of 
it  {q.v^l  You  should  decide  this  from  the  Tosephtha  cited 
above:  If  it  was  on  the  premises  of  the  seller,  title  is  not  given 
unless  he  lifts  it  up,  or  removes  it ;  and  it  is  to  be  assumed  that 
it  speaks  of  when  the  measure  was  the  buyer's.     (Answered  he:) 


i86  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Nay;  it  means  if  the  vessels  belong  to  the  seller.  (Rejoined  he:) 
If  the  first  part  speaks  of  when  the  vessels  belong  to  the  seller, 
the  second  part  must  also  treat  of  the  same.  How,  then,  is  the 
decision  to  be  understood:  "  If  it  was  on  the  premises  of  the 
buyer,  as  soon  as  the  seller  has  agreed,"  etc.,  title  is  acquired  ? 
Why,  then,  is  it  not  still  in  the  hands  of  the  seller  ?  Nay;  the 
latter  part  speaks  of  when  the  vessels  belong  to  the  buyer.  But 
what  compels  you  to  explain  the  two  parts  of  it  in  different 
applications  ?  Because,  generally,  if  on  the  premises  of  the 
seller  his  measures  are  used,  and  on  the  premises  of  the  buyer 
his  are  used. 

Said  Rabha:  Come  and  hear  another  objection:  If  the  buyer 
or  his  servants  have  led  the  asses  of  the  seller,  with  the  load,  to 
his  premises  (and  the  load  was  still  upon  the  asses  or  in  the 
hand  of  the  servants),  whether  the  price  was  made  but  no  mea- 
sure taken,  or  measure  taken  but  no  price  made,  both  have  a 
right  to  retract.  If,  however,  they  were  unloaded  in  the  street 
and  one  brought  the  stuff  to  his  house,  if  the  price  was  made 
before  measuring  neither  of  them  can  retract ;  but  if  measured 
before  the  price  was  made,  the  sale  is  not  considered  settled, 
and  both  may  retract.  Now,  as  we  see  that  the  vessels  belong- 
ing to  the  seller,  if  they  are  on  the  premises  of  the  buyer,  do 
not  give  title,  it  must  be  the  same  with  the  vessels  of  the  buyer 
on  the  premises  of  the  seller — neither  do  they  give  title  ?  Said 
R,  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak,  it  speaks  of  when  the  buyer  removed 
it  from  the  vessels  and  placed  it  on  his  premises.  Rabha  became 
angry  at  this  explanation:  Does  not  the  Tosephtha  plainly  teach 
"  unloaded,"  and  he  says,  "  removed  it  and  placed  it  on  his 
premises"?  Said  Mar  b.  R.  Ashi:  It  can  be  explained  that  the 
load  was  of  bundles  of  garlic  of  which  the  unloading  itself  makes 
it  rest  on  the  premises  of  the  buyer,  and  it  needs  no  more  work. 
Said  Huna  b.  Mar  Zutra  to  Rabhina:  Let  us  see.  It  states 
"  unloaded"  (from  which  it  must  be  supposed  that  he  did  it 
with  the  consent  of  the  owner).  What,  then,  is  the  difference 
whether  the  price  was  made  or  not  ?  (Is  it  not  said  above  that 
if  on  the  premises  of  the  buyer,  as  soon  as  agreed  on,  no  retrac- 
tion can  take  place,  as  the  premises  of  the  buyer  give  title  ?) 
Why,  then,  should  a  retraction  take  place  in  such  a  case  ?  And 
he  answered:  If  the  price  was  made,  the  seller  relies  upon  it, 
and  the  sale  is  made;  but  if  otherwise,  he  does  not.  Said 
Rabhina  to  R.  Ashi:  Come  and  hear  what  both  Rabh  and  Sam- 
uel declared  above:  The  vessels  of  one  give  him  title  at  every 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  187 

place.  Is  this  not  equivalent  to  saying  even  on  the  premises  of 
the  seller  ?    Yea,  provided  he  told  him:  Go  and  acquire  title. 

There  is  a  Mishna  (Kidushin):  To  real  estate  title  is  acquired 
by  money,  deed,  or  hazakah,  and  to  personal  property  title  is 
given  by  drawing  only.  As  to  which  in  Surah  it  was  taught  in 
the  name  of  R.  Hisda,  and  in  Pumbeditha  in  the  name  of  R. 
Kahana,  according  to  others  in  the  name  of  Rabha,  as  follows: 
This  is  said  concerning  things  which  it  is  not  usual  to  lift  up; 
but  to  those  which  it  is  usual  to  lift,  title  is  given  only  by  lift- 
ing up,  but  not  by  drawing. 

Abayi  was  sitting  repeating  this  Halakha,  and  R.  Ada  b. 
Mathna  objected  to  him  from  the  following:  If  one  steals  a 
purse  on  Sabbath  and  takes  it  into  the  street,  he  is  obliged  to 
pay  for  the  purse,  because  he  was  culpable  of  stealing  before 
the  violation  of  the  Sabbath  was  committed.  (There  is  a  rule 
that  if  in  one  and  the  same  thing  a  liability  for  money  and  a 
crime  were  committed,  the  punishment  for  the  crime  absolves 
him  from  payment.)  In  such  a  case,  however,  two  separate 
crimes  are  considered,  as  after  he  steals  the  purse  it  becomes 
his  (and  the  violation  of  the  Sabbath  is  done  with  his  own).  If, 
however,  he  drew  the  purse  little  by  little,  and  he  picked  it  up 
when  it  was  already  on  public  ground,  he  is  absolved  from  pay- 
ment, as  both  crimes  were  committed  together.  Now  a  purse 
is  certainly  a  thing  which  is  usually  lifted  up,  and  nevertheless 
one  acquires  title  to  it  by  drawing;  for  should  it  not  be  Sab- 
bath, he  would  be  obliged  to  pay  for  it,  even  if  he  should  not 
have  lifted  it  up  until  it  reaches  the  street  ?  And  he  answered: 
It  speaks  of  a  purse  fastened  with  a  cord,  of  which  drawing  is 
usual.  Said  R.  Ada:  I  also  speak  of  such  a  kind  of  purse. 
And  he  rejoined :  I  mean  such  a  big  purse  as  could  not  be  lifted 
up  except  by  drawing  it  by  the  cord.  It  was  objected  again 
from  the  above  Tosephtha  that  if  on  the  premises  of  the  seller, 
title  is  not  given  unless  he  hfted  it  up  or  drew  it,  from  which 
we  see  that  to  a  thing  that  can  be  lifted  up  title  is  acquired  by 
drawing  also.  Said  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak:  It  is  meant  in 
parts.  To  a  thing  which  is  usually  lifted  up,  title  is  given  by 
lifting,  and  usually  drawn,  by  drawing. 

Come  and  hear!  If  one  sold  fruit,  if  he  made  a  drawing 
although  not  measured,  title  is  given.  Now  fruit  is  usually 
carried,  and  nevertheless  drawing  suffices  ?  It  means  big  loads 
of  fruit.  If  so,  how  is  the  latter  part  to  be  understood:  "  If 
one  buys  flax,  title  is  not  given  unless  he  removes  it  to  another 


i88  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

place  "  ?  Is  it  not  usual  for  flax  to  be  in  big  loads  ?  With  flax 
it  is  different,  because  it  is  usually  detachable  in  big  loads. 

Said  Rabhina  to  R.  Ashi:  Come  and  hear!  To  a  cow,  title 
is  given  by  transferring;  and  to  a  calf,  by  lifting  up.  So  is  the 
decree  of  R.  Meir  and  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar.  But  the  sages 
say:  To  a  calf,  by  drawing  also.  Now  a  calf  can  be  lifted  up, 
and  nevertheless  drawing  gives  title  ?  With  a  calf  it  is  differ- 
ent, as  it  resists.     Therefore  it  is  difficult  to  lift  it  up. 

Rabh  and  Samuel  both  said:  If  one  says:  I  sell  you  a  kur  of 
thirty  saahs  for  such  an  amount,  the  seller  has  a  right  to  retract 
even  at  the  last  saah.  If,  however,  he  said :  I  sell  you  a  kur  of 
thirty  saahs,  each  saah  for  a  selah,  title  is  acquired  to  every  saah 
as  measured.  Come  and  hear!  If  the  measure  belongs  to  one 
of  them,  to  every  atom  that  was  put  in  title  is  acquired,  although 
the  whole  measure  was  not  as  yet  filled.  Hence  we  see  that 
title  is  given  even  when  one  did  not  say:  I  sell  you  each  mea- 
sure for  a  certain  price  ?  It  speaks  of  when  in  the  measure 
were  marks,  as  where  one  said :  I  sell  you  a  hin  for  twelve 
selahs,  each  lug  for  a  selah.  And  R.  Kahana  illustrates  thus: 
There  were  marks  in  the  hin  for  one,  two,  three  lugs,  etc. 
The  same  is  it  with  the  measure  in  question :  there  were  marks 
for  each  saah.  Come  and  hear!  If  one  hires  a  servant  to  work 
for  him  in  the  barn  (not  in  harvest-time)  for  one  dinar  a  day, 
with  the  stipulation  that  he  shall  work  for  him  for  the  same 
price  in  the  harvest-time,  although  at  that  time  the  price  is  a 
selah  a  day  Cand  advances  him  the  wages  for  the  whole  time), 
it  is  prohibited  to  do  so,  as  it  looks  usurious;  but  if  he  hires 
him  for  one  hundred  days  from  to-day  for  a  dinar  a  day,  and 
advances  him  one  hundred  dinars,  although  during  the  time  the 
harvest  begins  and  each  day  is  worth  a  selah,  it  is  permissible. 
Now,  if  you  say  that  to  a  kur  of  thirty  saahs,  each  saah  for  a 
selah,  title  is  given  for  each  saah  measured,  it  ought  to  be  the 
sanrie  with  the  days  in  question — for  each  working  day  a  dinar 
shall  be  charged,  and  when  the  harvest  comes  he  shall  add  every 
day  for  the  increase  in  price  at  that  time,  and  by  not  doing  so 
it  is  to  be  considered  usury?  Said  Rabha:  Whence  did  you 
obtain  that  it  is  not  permissible  to  one  to  lower  the  price  for  his 
work  ?  Hence  this  does  not  contradict  the  statement  of  Rabh 
and  Samuel  at  all.  But  if  so,  why  is  there  a  difference  between 
the  first  part  of  the  Boraitha  and  the  latter  ?  In  the  first  part 
it  does  not  say:  Work  from  to-day.  And  if  he  begins  his  work 
at  the  harvest-time  for  a  lower  price,  it  looks  usurious,  as  he  has 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  189 

lowered  the  price  for  advancing  the  money.  In  the  second 
part,  however,  where  he  begins  to  work  immediately,  and  works 
every  day  for  the  same  price,  it  cannot  be  considered  usury  if 
he  does  not  increase  the  price  at  harvest-time. 

' '  And  the  buyer  pulled  up  some  of  it, ' '  etc.  Because  he  pulled 
up  some  of  it,  he  acquires  title  to  the  whole  ?  Said  R.  Shesheth : 
It  treats  of  a  case  in  which  the  seller  said  to  him  :  Fix  something 
in  the  ground,  and  acquire  title  to  all  that  is  attached  thereon. 

MISHNA/X. :  If  one  sold  wine  or  oil,  and  it  became  dearer 
or  cheaper,  if  before  the  measure  was  filled  it  is  to  be  charged 
to  the  seller;  and  if  afterwards,  to  the  buyer.  If  the  sale  was 
made  through  a  broker,  and  it  happens  that  a  barrel  leaks,  it 
is  to  be  charged  to  the  broker,  and  the  seller  is  obliged  to  add 
a  few  drops  to  the  measure.  After  the  seller  has  turned  over 
the  measure,  and  some  of  the  liquid  has  gathered,  it  belongs  to 
the  seller;  the  storekeeper,  however,  is  not  obliged  to  keep  the 
measure  until  the  last  three  drops  are  leaked  out.  R.  Jehudah 
says  that  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath,  when  it  grows  dark,  one  is 
exempt  from  this  duty. 

GEMARA:  Let  us  see  to  whom  the  measure  in  question 
belongs?  If  to  the  buyer,  why  should  it  be  charged  to  the 
seller,  even  if  it  was  not  filled ;  and  if  to  the  seller,  why  should 
it  be  charged  to  the  buyer,  even  if  it  was  filled  up  ?  Said  R. 
Ilaah:  It  speaks  of  when  the  measure  was  the  broker's.  But 
does  not  the  Mishna  state  in  the  latter  part,  "  if  there  was  a 
broker,"  from  which  it  is  to  be  inferred  that  the  first  part  means 
without  a  broker  ?  The  first  part  speaks  of  the  broker's  mea- 
sure in  his  absence ;  and  the  latter,  in  his  presence. 

"  After  the  seller  has  turned  over  the  measure ,'  etc.  When 
R.  Elazar  reached  Palestine,  he  met  Zeeri  and  asked  him:  Is 
there  here  some  scholar  whom  Rabh  has  taught  the  laws  about 
measures  ?  And  he  showed  to  him  R.  Itz'hak  b.  Abdimi.  And 
he  asked  him:  What  is  your  difficulty  ?  The  statement  of  our 
Mishna,  which  says  that  this  belongs  to  the  seller,  and  another: 
If,  of  troomah  which  was  given  to  the  priest,  after  the  barrel  was 
turned  over  and  leaked  out  there  was  still  some  remainder,  it  is 
troomah  (hence  we  see  that  it  belongs  to  the  buyer)  ?  And  he 
answered:  This  presents  no  difficulty,  as  additional  to  our  Mishna 
was  taught  by  R.  Abuhu :  The  reason  is  that  usually  the  seller 
renounced  his  right  to  such  a  trifle  (which  cannot  be  said  there, 
as  who  can  renounce  troomah  ?). 

"  The  storekeeper,''  etc.     The  schoolmen  propounded  a  ques- 


igo  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

tion:  Does  R.  Jehudah  with  his  statement  mean  to  say  that  the 
wholesaler  is  exempt  from  adding  the  drops  on  the  eve  of  Sab- 
baths, therefore  being  more  lenient  than  the  first  Tana,  or  does 
he  mean  the  storekeeper,  and  is  rigorous,  as  he  exempts  him 
on  the  eve  of  Sabbaths  and  not  on  week-days  ?  Come  and  hear 
the  following  Boraitha,  which  states  plainly:  R.  Jehudah  said 
on  the  eve  of  Sabbaths  the  storekeeper  is  exempt,  for  he  is  then 
busy. 

MISHNA  X.  :  If  one  sends  his  little  son  to  the  storekeeper 
with  2. pundiun  (dupondius)  to  buy  one  issar's  worth  of  oil  and 
to  get  one  issar  change,  and  the  storekeeper  so  acts,  but  the 
child  loses  the  issar  and  breaks  the  glass  containing  the  oil,  the 
storekeeper  is  responsible.  R.  Jehudah,  however,  frees  him,  as 
for  this  purpose  the  child  was  sent.  The  sages,  however,  admit 
that  when  the  glass  was  in  the  hand  of  the  child  and  the  store- 
keeper poured  the  oil  into  it,  the  storekeeper  is  free. 

GEMARA:  It  is  correct,  in  their  difference  concerning  the 
oil  and  the  change  of  the  issar,  that  according  to  the  rabbis  the 
child  was  sent  only  to  notify  the  storekeeper  of  his  want,  so 
that  the  storekeeper  shall  supply  it,  and  according  to  R.  Jehu- 
dah that  it  was  sent  to  bring  it ;  but  why  should  the  storekeeper 
be  responsible  for  the  glass,  which  the  father  should  not  have 
intrusted  to  the  child,  who  was  unable  to  take  care  of  it  ?  Said 
R.  Houshiah:  The  Mishna  treats  of  when  the  sender  was  a 
glass-dealer,  and  the  storekeeper  took  it  to  examine  it  and 
it  broke.  And  it  is  in  accordance  with  Samuel,  who  said  else- 
where that  if  one  takes  a  vessel  to  a  specialist  for  examination, 
and  it  was  destroyed  by  an  accident,  the  latter  is  responsible. 
Is  it  to  be  assumed  that  in  this  simple  statement  of  Samuel  the 
Tanaim  differ  ?  Therefore  said  both  Rabba  and  R.  Joseph:  It 
treats  of  when  the  storekeeper  was  a  glass-dealer  also,  and  he 
gave  the  glass  to  the  child;  and  R.  Jehudah's  decision  that  the 
sender  is  nevertheless  responsible  for  the  glass  also  is  because  it 
was  sent  for  the  purpose  of  bringing  the  oil  (and  as  the  father 
gave  no  vessel,  the  storekeeper  did  only  what  was  demanded) ; 
and  the  rabbis  are  in  accordance  with  their  theory  that  the 
storekeeper  had  to  supply.  But  if  so,  how  is  the  latter  part, 
"  If  the  glass  was  in  the  hand  of  the  child,"  etc.,  to  be  under- 
stood ?  Is  it  not  said  that  the  child  was  sent  only  to  notify 
him  ?  Therefore  Abayi  and  R.  Hanina,  sons  of  Abin,  both 
said:  The  Mishna  speaks  of  a  case  in  which  the  storekeeper 
took  the  glass  to  measure  with  (and  although  the  storekeeper 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  191 

had  not  requested  that  such  should  be  sent  to  him,  as  soon  as 
he  took  it  for  the  purpose  of  measuring  he  is  responsible).  And 
this  is  in  accordance  with  Rabba,  who  said  (Middle  Gate,  p.  69): 
"  If  he  has  struck  the  animal,  although  he  was  not  obliged  to 
return  it,  he  is  responsible.  But  Rabba's  statement  was  con- 
cerning a  living  thing,  which  usually  runs  away  when  struck. 
Have  you  also  heard  him  stating  in  such  a  case  as  ours  ?  There- 
fore said  Rabha:  I  and  the  lion  of  our  society,  which  is  R.  Zera, 
have  explained  thus:  The  Mishna  treats  of  when  the  storekeeper 
took  the  glass  for  measuring  to  other  customers — and  the  point 
of  their  differing  is,  "  a  borrower  without  consent."  According 
to  one,  he  is  considered  a  robber  and  is  responsible;  and  accord- 
ing to  the  other,  he  is  considered  a  borrower  who  is  not  respon- 
sible for  an  accident. 

The  text  says:  Samuel  said:  "  If  one  took  a  ves'^el  from  a 
specialist,  to  examine  it,  he  is  responsible  for  an  accident." 
This  is  only  when  the  price  of  the  article  was  fixed. 

There  was  a  man  who  entered  a  butcher  shop  and  lifted  up 
a  shoulder  of  meat,  and  while  examining  it  a  crusher  came  and 
took  it  away  from  him  ;  and  when  the  case  came  before  R. 
Ziemar,  he  made  him  responsible,  as  the  price  for  it  was  already 
made. 

There  was  a  man  who  brought  cucumbers  to  the  city  of 
Pumnahara,  and  a  crowd  arriving,  each  of  them  took  one  for 
the  purpose  of  buying,  but  the  seller  could  not  see  of  whom  to 
demand  the  money.  And  he  exclaimed,  "  All  of  them  are  con- 
secrated for  heaven."  When  the  case  came  before  R.  Kahana, 
he  decided  that  one  cannot  consecrate  a  thing  not  belonging  to 
him  (and  as  the  price  for  each  cucumber  was  fixed  and  they  were 
in  the  hands  of  the  buyers,  they  had  acquired  title  to  them  even 
before  paying;  but  if  the  price  were  not  fixed^  they  would  be 
still  under  the  control  of  the  owner  and  the  consecration  valid). 

The  rabbis  taught:  If  one  were  examining  herbs  in  the 
market,  selecting  from  them  and  putting  the  same  aside,  even 
if  he  did  so  the  whole  day  title  is  not  acquired,  and  there  is  no 
obligation  for  tithe.  (It  treats  of  when  the  seller  was  one  of 
the  common  people  who  was  suspicious  that  he  did  not  separate 
tithe  therefrom.)  If,  however,  he  had  made  up  his  mind  to 
buy,  title  is  acquired,  and  they  become  a  subject  for  tithe.  In 
case  of  reconsidering  he  has  no  right  to  return,  because  they  are 
already  a  subject  obligatory  for  tithe;  and  also  he  has  no  right 
to  separate  the  tithe  if  he  intended  to  return,  as  he  would  dimin- 


192  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

ish  the  value.  Therefore  he  can  do  no  other  than  separate  the 
tithe  and  pay  the  owner  for  them. 

But  is  it  so,  that  because  one  has  made  up  his  mind  to  buy 
he  acquires  title  and  makes  a  thing  subject  for  tithe  ?  Said  R. 
Houshiah:  The  Boraitha  treats  of  one  who  fears  heaven  like 
R.  Saphra,  who  always  acted  as  it  is  written  [Ps.  xv.  2]:  "  And 
speaketh  the  truth  in  his  heart." 

MISHNA  XL:  The  wholesaler  has  to  clean  his  measures 
once  within  thirty  days  (because  the  stuff  sticks  to  them  and 
impairs  accurate  measuring).  A  retailer,  however,  has  to  do  so 
once  within  twelve  months.  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel,  however, 
maintains  that  the  reverse  is  the  case.  (With  the  wholesaler, 
who  measures  continually,  the  stuff  does  not  stick,  and  it  is  suffi- 
cient to  clean  them  once  within  a  year;  but  with  the  retailer, 
who  does  not  measure  continually,  the  stufT  sticks,  and  he  is 
obliged  to  clean  them  once  within  thirty  days.)  The  store- 
keeper must  do  the  same  with  his  measures  twice  a  week,  and 
the  weights  once  a  week  (as  he  takes  hold  of  them  with  wet 
hands,  and  consequently  they  become  heavier,  and  when  he 
buys  something,  in  weighing  the  stuff  he  deceives  the  seller). 
The  scales,  however,  he  must  clean  before  each  weighing  thereon. 
Said  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel:  All  this  is  said  when  he  sells 
liquids,  but  otherwise  it  is  not  necessary.  The  storekeeper  is 
obliged  to  bend  the  cross-bit  the  size  of  a  span  to  the  scale  that 
contains  the  stuff  sold  (in  case  he  sells  a  litra  or  more).  If, 
however,  he  weighs  strictly,  he  must  give  him  the  overweight 
due — one-tenth  of  a  liquid  and  one-twentieth  of  a  dry  thing. 
Where  it  is  customary  to  measure  with  small  measures,  one 
must  not  do  it  with  large  ones,  and  vice  versa.  Where  it  is  cus- 
tomary to  smooth  the  measures,  it  must  not  be  heaped;  and  to 
heap,  it  must  not  be  smoothed. 

GEMARA:  Whence  is  all  this  deduced  ?  Said  Resh  La- 
kish:  From  [Deut.  xxv.  15]  "A  perfect  and  just  weight  shalt 
thou  have  "  ;  and  as  the  word  "  just  "  is  superfluous,  it  is  to  be 
explained  thus:  Justify  the  perfect  measure  from  thy  own.  If 
so,  how  is  the  latter  part,  "  if  he  weighs  strictly,"  to  be  under- 
stood ?  (If  it  is  a  biblical  obligation  to  add  to  the  exact  weight, 
how  can  it  be  allowed  to  weigh  strictly  ?)  Therefore  it  must  be 
said  that  the  first  part  of  the  Mishna  treats  of  places  where  it  is 
so  customary,  and  the  interpretation  of  Resh  Lakish  refers  to 
the  latter  part,  which  states  that  he  must  give  him  the  over- 
weight.    And  to  the  question.  Whence  is  this  deduced  ?  Resh 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  193 

Lakish  interpreted  the  above-cited  verse.  And  how  much  shall 
the  overweight  be  ?  Said  R.  Abba  b.  Mamal  in  the  name  of 
Rabh :  A  tenth  of  a  litra  in  liquid  to  a  quantity  of  ten  litras. 

"  One-tenth  to  liquid,"  etc.  The  schoolmen  propounded  a 
question:  Does  it  mean  one-tenth  of  a  liquid  to  ten  wet  mea- 
sures and  one-twentieth  to  twenty  dry  measures,  or  one-tenth 
to  ten  liquid  and  to  twenty  dry  ones  ?  This  question  was  not 
decided. 

R.  Levi  said:  The  punishment  for  false  measuring  is  harder 
than  for  adultery,  as  concerning  the  first  the  expression  in  Scrip- 
ture is  [Lev.  xviii.  24],  "  with  «//,"  and  the  latter  [Deut.  xxv. 
16],  "  with  iele.''  And  whence  is  it  inferred  that  these  words 
mean  hard  punishment?  From  [Ezek.  xvii.  13]:  "But  the 
mighty  {iele)  did  he  take  away. 

And  what  is  the  reason  ?  Concerning  adultery  one  can  atone 
by  repentance,  which  is  not  the  case  with  an  unjust  measure,  as 
he  cannot  know  whom  he  has  cheated,  in  order  to  make  amends. 

The  same  said  again:  It  is  harder  for  the  cheating  of  a  com- 
moner than  for  the  cheating  of  the  sanctuary,  as  the  punishment 
for  robbing  a  common  man  is  more  severe  than  for  robbing 
the  sanctuary.*  Concerning  a  commoner  it  is  written  [Lev.  v. 
21]:  "If  any  person  sin  and  commit  a  trespass  against  the  Lord 
— if,  namely,  he  lie  unto  his  neighbor  .  .  .  in  a  thing  taken 
away,"  etc.  Hence  even  in  the  beginning  of  the  deception  the 
passage  calls  him  sinner,  while  concerning  the  robbing  of  the 
sanctuary  [ibid.,  ibid.  xiv.  15],  "  If  any  person  commit  a  tres- 
pass," etc.,  he  is  not  called  sinner  at  the  time  he  took  it,  unless 
he  derived  benefit  therefrom. 

The  rabbis  taught :  Whence  is  it  deduced  that  it  must  not 
be  smoothed  where  the  custom  is  heaping,  and  vice  versa  ? 
From  [Deut.  xxv.  15]:  "A  perfect  and  just  measure  shalt  thou 
have."  And  whence  is  it  deduced  that  if  one  say,  where  the 
custom  is  not  to  smooth,  "  I  will  smooth  and  diminish  the 
amount,"  or,  in  places  where  it  is  smoothed,  "  I  will  heap  and 
increase  the  amount,"  he  must  not  be  listened  to  ?  From  the 
same  cited  verse  and  from  the  superfluous  word  "just,"  as 
stated  above. 

The  rabbis  taught:  Whence  is  it  deduced  that  one  must  not 
weigh  accurately  where  it  is  customary  to  add  to  the  weight, 
and  viceversa?     From  the  same  cited  verse:  "  perfect  and  just 

*  The  Hagadah  in  text  will  be  placed  at  the  end  of  this  chapter. 
13 


194  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

weight."  And  if  one  cared  to  do  otherwise  than  according  to 
custom,  and  pay  the  difference  ?  He  must  not  be  listened  to, 
as  said  above. 

Said  R.  Jehudah  of  Sura:  It  is  written  [ibid.,  ibid.  14]: 
"  Thou  shalt  not  have  in  thy  house,"  etc.  (the  term  "  in  thy 
house,"  which  is  superfluous,  is  to  be  interpreted  thus:  thou 
shalt  not  have  money  in  thy  house,  for  the  purpose  of  smooth- 
ing where  it  is  the  custom  of  heaping,  and  vice  versa,  or  for 
overweight,  etc.),  because  this  would  bring  one  to  keep  in  his 
house  two  divers  measures.  And  the  same  explanation  is  to  be 
given  to  [ibid.,  ibid.  13]:  "  As  it  is  desired  of  every  one  to  have 
one  weight  and  one  measure,  just  and  perfect." 

The  rabbis  taught :  From  the  same  verse  is  to  be  inferred 
that  gradjims  must  be  appointed  to  investigate  measures,  but 
not  to  investigate  prices.  The  Exilarchs  used  to  appoint 
gradums  for  both  (measures  and  prices).  And  Samuel  said  to 
Kama:  Go  and  lecture  to  them  that  gradums  should  be  ap- 
pointed for  measures  only.  He,  however,  lectured  that  for  both 
(measures  and  prices)  gradums  must  be  appointed.  And  Sam- 
uel cursed  him  for  this.  However,  Kama  did  it  in  accordance 
with  Rami  b.  Hama,  who  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Itz'hak: 
Gradums  should  be  appointed  for  measures  as  well  as  for  prices, 
because  of  cheating. 

The  rabbis  taught:  If  one  desires  a  litra,  a  half,  or  a  quar- 
ter, it  may  be  given  to  him  with  its  weight,  but  for  less  than 
this  no  weight  should  be  made;  but  he  may  give  it  to  him 
according  to  the  money  or  by  weight  of  coins. 

The  rabbis  taught:  If  one  desires  three-quarters  of  a  litra, 
he  has  no  right  to  demand  one  shall  weigh  him  each  quarter 
separately  (and  give  him  overweight  to  each  of  them);  but  one 
may  weigh  him  a  litra,  and  leave  the  fourth  quarter  for  over- 
weight. The  same  is  the  case  if  he  needs  ten  litras  :  he  has  no 
right  to  demand  he  shall  weigh  him  each  litra  separately  with 
an  overweight;  but  he  weighs  him  all  the  ten  in  one  scale,  and 
gives  one  overweight  to  all. 

The  rabbis  taught:  The  scales  must  be  hanging  three  spans 
in  the  air — i.e.,  three  spans  from  the  ceiling  or  three  spans  from 
the  ground;  and  the  cross-bit  with  the  cords  of  the  scales  must 
be  the  size  of  twelve  spans;  for  wool  and  glassware  two  spans, 
and  the  cross-bit  with  cord*  of  the  scale  nine  spans;  the  store- 
keeper and  privates,  however,  one  span,  and  the  cross-bit  with 
cords  of  the  scale  six  spans;  and  for  gold  and  silver  three  fingers 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA    (LAST   GATE).  195 

in  the  air,  and  of  the  cross-bit  and  the  cord  of  the  scales  I  do 
not  know  the  size  (the  Tana  of  this  Boraitha  says  so). 

(Says  the  Gemara :)  For  what  purpose  is  the  first-mentioned 
scale  of  which  it  is  not  stated  what  should  be  weighed  upon  it  ? 
Said  R.  Papa:  For  gravita  (of  iron  and  copper  smiths,  who 
weigh  pieces  of  one  hundred  litras  on  one  scale;  according  to 
others,  their  filings). 

Said  R.  Mani  b.  Patish:  The  same  sizes  of  scales  are  needed 
to  make  a  subject  for  defilement  (this  will  be  explained  in  the 
proper  place). 

The  rabbis  taught:.  Weights  must  not  be  made  of  tin,  lead, 
cassiterite,  or  other  kinds  of  metal,  but  they  may  be  made  of 
granite  or  glass. 

The  rabbis  taught:  The  roller  for  smoothing  must  not  be 
made  from  a  melon  stem,  as  it  is  too  light;  nor  of  iron,  as  it 
is  too  heavy;  but  of  olive,  nut,  sycamore,  or  box  tree. 

The  rabbis  taught:  The  roller  must  not  be  made  thick  at 
one  end  and  narrow  at  the  other;  one  must  not  strike  rapidly, 
because  this  would  be  a  benefit  for  the  buyer  and  a  disadvan- 
tage to  the  seller ;  and  also  not  too  slow,  which  is  a  disadvan- 
tage to  the  buyer  and  beneficial  to  the  seller.  And  to  all  this 
was  said  by  Rabban  Johanan  b.  Zakkai :  It  would  be  painful  to 
me  to  declare  the  art  of  measuring,  as  this  would  serve  as  a  les- 
son for  swindlers,  and  also  painful  not  to  declare  it,  as  swindlers 
would  say  that  the  rabbis  have  no  idea  of  the  art  of  our  pro- 
fession. 

And  to  the  question  of  the  schoolmen :  Did  R.  Johanan  de- 
clare so,  or  not?  said  R.  Samuel  b.  R.  Itz'hak:  He  did;  and 
on  the  basis  of  the  following  verse  [Hos.  xv.  10]:  "  For  right- 
eous are  the  ways  of  the  Lord,  and  the  just  shall  walk  in  them, 
but  the  transgressors  will  stumble  through  them."  * 

Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  One  must  not  keep 
in  his  house  an  unjust  measure,  even  if  he  uses  it  for  a  chamber. 
Said  R.  Papa:  This  is  said  of  places  where  measures  are  not 
stamped;  but  in  places  where  they  are  it  does  not  matter,  for 
no  one  would  take  a  measure  without  being  stamped.  And 
even  where  they  are  not  stamped,  it  is  prohibited  to  keep  them 
when  they  are  not  examined  by  the  government ;  but  if  they 
arc,  it  does  not  matter. 

(Says  the  Gemara:)  In  reality,  however,  it  is  not  so,  as  it 

*  Here  is  repeated  matter  in  pp.  147-148  of  Vol.  XII.  to  "  Rabha  said." 


196  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

may  happen  that  one  may  measure  with  it  by  twilight.  And  so 
also  we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  One  must  not  keep  in  his 
house  an  unjust  measure,  even  if  he  uses  it  for  a  chamber.  He 
may,  however,  keep  a  saah,  a  tarkab,  a  half  of  it;  a  kab,  a  half, 
or  a  quarter  of  it;  a  thuman  or  a  half  of  it;  and  an  ukla.  [And 
how  much  is  an  ukla  ?  A  fifth  of  a  lug.]  And  of  liquids — a 
hin,  a  half,  a  third,  a  quarter;  a  lug,  a  half,  a  quarter,  and  an 
eighth,  and  an  eighth  of  an  eighth,  which  is  named  kartub. 
But  why  is  it  not  allowed  to  keep  a  measure  of  two  kabs  ?  for 
one  may  take  it  for  a  tarkab.  We  see,  then,  that  a  mistake  can 
be  made  in  a  third.  Then  it  ought  not  to  be  allowed  to  keep 
a  kab,  as  we  may  take  it  for  a  half  tarkab.  Therefore  we  must 
say  that  a  measure  of  two  kabs  is  not  allowed,  for  one  may  take 
it  for  a  half  tarkab.  We  see,  then,  that  a  mistake  can  be  made 
in  a  quarter,  as  a  half  tarkab  measures  a  kab  and  a  half.  Why, 
then,  is  it  allowed  to  keep  a  half  thuman  and  ukla  ?  Said  R. 
Papa:  Small  measures  are  known  to  the  people,  and  no  mistake 
can  be  made.  But  why  is  it  allowed  to  keep  a  third  and  a  quar- 
ter of  a  hin  ?  Because  these  measures  were  used  in  the  Temple, 
the  rabbis  would  not  care  to  prohibit  them.  But  why  were  they 
not  prohibited  in  the  Temple  also  ?  Because  the  priests  were 
always  careful. 

Samuel  said :  If  the  elders  of  the  city  want  to  enlarge  the 
measures,  it  must  not  be  more  than  a  sixth  of  them ;  and  the 
same  is  the  case  when  they  want  to  enlarge  a  coin.  And  the 
seller  should  not  fix  his  profit  at  more  than  a  sixth  (provided 
the  price  of  the  stuff  has  not  increased ;  but  if  it  has,  then  the 
profit  may  be  even  twofold). 

Let  us  see  what  is  the  reason  of  Samuel's  decision  ?  Shall 
we  assume  that  the  reason  is,  if  the  wholesalers  do  not  increase 
the  price  more  in  proportion,  then  they  may  do  so  even  when 
it  is  enlarged  to  one-sixth  exactly  ?  And  if  the  reason  is  not  to 
make  void  the  sale  (as  exacting  more  than  a  sixth  makes  the 
sale  null  and  void)  ?  Did  not  Rabha  say:  Every  sale  by  mea- 
sure, weight,  or  number,  if  there  should  be  an  exaction  of  even 
less  than  the  law  prescribes,  it  may  be  retracted  ?  Therefore  it 
must  be  said  that  the  reason  is  that  an  outside  seller  should  not 
suffer  any  damage  {i.e.,  if  an  outside  seller,  who  is  not  aware  of 
the  increase,  sells  for  the  same  price  as  before,  and  his  profit  is 
usually  a  sixth,  if  it  was  enlarged  to  a  sixth  only  then  he  derives 
no  profit,  but  neither  does  he  suffer  any  damage  in  the  cost 
price).     Is  that  so  ?     Does  not  the  seller  need  to  make  profit  on 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  197 

his  sale  ?  Should  one  who  sells  at  cost  be  called  a  merchant  ? 
Therefore  said  R.  Hisda:  Samuel  took  as  a  basis  for  his  decision 
the  following  verse  [Ezek.  xlv.  12]:  "And  the  shekel  shall  be 
twenty  gerahs:  (in  pieces  of)  twenty  shekels,  five  and  twenty 
shekels,  fifteen  shekels,  shall  be  your  maneh."  Was,  then,  a 
maneh  sixty  shekels,  which  makes  two  hundred  and  forty  zuz  ? 
Therefore  from  this  verse  maybe  inferred  three  things:  («)  That 
the  maneh  of  the  sanctuary  was  in  value  twice  as  much  as  the 
common  shekel;  (3)  that  it  is  allowed  to  increase  a  sixth,  but 
not  more;  and  {c)  that  the  sixth  may  be  added  even  from  out- 
side {e.g.,  to  add  ten  to  fifty,  so  that  the  sixth  may  be  reckoned 
after  being  added,  as  the  maneh  of  Ezekiel  is  sixty  shekels, 
while  a  maneh  in  general  contains  twenty-five  shekels). 

R.  Papa  b.  Samuel  made  a  kielah  of  three  kpiz.*  And  to 
the  question :  Did  not  Samuel  say  there  must  not  be  added 
more  than  a  sixth  ?  answered  he :  I  have  invented  a  measure 
entirely  new.  He  sent  it  to  Pumbeditha,  and  it  was  not  ac- 
cepted ;  but  the  city  of  Papunia  accepted  it,  and  called  it  Rus- 
Papa  {i.e.,  the  measure  of  Papa). 

The  rabbis  taught:  "  Those  who  forestall  fruit,"  etc.  (here 
as  in  Derech  Eretz — Rabba,  Vol.  IX.,  p.  i,  line  17  seq. — q.  v.). 
Those  who  forestall  fruit — who  are  meant  thereby  ?  Said  R. 
Johanan  :  People  like  Sabbati,  the  forestaller  of  fruit  (whose 
custom  was  to  buy  fruit  only  for  the  purpose  of  selling  it  to 
the  poor  at  a  high  price;  but  if  one  buys  fruit  at  the  cheap 
season  not  for  this  purpose,  and  the  price  increases,  and  he 
sells  it  at  the  existing  price,  it  does  not  matter).  The  father 
of  Samuel  used  to  buy  grain  at  harvest-time,  and  sold  it 
at  the  same  price.  Samuel  his  son,  however,  used  to  store  up 
the  grain  he  bought  in  harvest  until  the  price  became  higher, 
and  then  sold  it  at  the  same  price  as  in  harvest-time.  And 
from  Palestine  a  message  was  sent  that  the  acts  of  the  father 
were  more  meritorious  than  those  of  his  son.  Why  so  ?  Be- 
cause through  the  acts  of  the  father  the  wholesaler  could  not 
increase  the  price,  while  the  acts  of  the  son  did  not  prevent  the 
increase  of  price,  and  his  selling  cheap  could  not  affect  the  high 
price  which  was  already  fixed. 

Rabh  said :  One  may  store  up  the  grain  he  has  harvested 
from  his  field  (as  it  is  prohibited  only  to  buy  in  the  market  at 


*  A  kpiz  was  nine  lugs,  or  a  kab  less  one  lug  ;  acccording  to  others,  one  lug, 
and  the  kielah  was  the  same  as  a  half  tarkab,  which  contains  one  and  a  half  kabs. 


198  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

harvest-time  for  the  purpose  of  increasing  the  price).  And  so 
we  have  also  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha:  One  must  not 
forestall  fruit,  grain,  etc.,  by  which  a  livelihood  is  made,  as, 
e.g.,  wine,  oil,  and  fine  flour;  but  spices,  pepper,  etc.,  one 
may.  This  is  said,  however,  if  one  buys  it  from  the  market; 
but  from  one's  own  field  it  is  allowed  to  store  everything.  One 
is  also  allowed  to  store  up  in  Palestine  for  the  following  three 
years — for  the  eve  of  a  Sabbatic  year,  for  the  Sabbatic  year 
itself,  and  for  the  succeeding  year  (as  in  the  last  year  people 
must  wait  for  the  new  crop).  In  famine  years,  however,  even 
a  kab  of  carobs  must  not  be  stored  up,  for  it  produces  a  curse 
to  the  prices.  R.  Jose  b.  Hanina  said  to  Puga  his  servant:  Go, 
store  up  for  me  grain  for  three  years — for  the  eve  of  the  Sab- 
batic year,  the  Sabbatic  year  itself,  and  the  succeeding  year. 

The  rabbis  taught :  There  must  not  be  exported  from  Pales- 
tine things  by  which  a  livelihood  is  made,  as  wine,  oil,  and  fine 
meal.  R.  Jehudah  b.  Bathyra  allows  to  export  wine,  because 
it  diminishes  intoxication ;  and  even  from  Palestine  to  Syria  the 
export  of  the  above  is  prohibited.  Rabbi,  however,  allows  ex- 
port from  the  last  province  of  Palestine  to  the  first  province  of 
Syria  which  bounds  it. 

The  rabbis  taught :  One  must  not  buy  from  the  farmer  things 
by  which  a  livelihood  is  made  for  the  purpose  of  selling  in  the 
market  at  a  higher  price  in  the  provinces  of  Palestine;  but  for 
the  farmer  himself  it  is  allowed  to  sell  in  the  markets. 

It  was  said,  however,  that  R.  Elazar  b.  Azarya  used  to  sell 
wine  and  oil  to  the  retail  dealers,  and  they  sold  it  at  a  higher 
price;  and  the  reason  was,  that  he  holds  with  R.  Jehudah  con- 
cerning wine ;  and  oil  was  abundant  in  the  markets  of  his  place, 
so  that  the  retail  dealers  could  not  affect  the  price. 

The  rabbis  taught:  One  must  not  derive  twice  a  profit  on 
eggs.  Said  Mari  b.  Mari:  In  the  interpretation  of  the  Boraitha 
Rabh  and  Samuel  differ.  According  to  one,  it  means  one  shall 
not  double  the  price;  and  according  to  the  other,  it  means  one 
seller  shall  not  sell  it  to  another  seller  so  that  he  has  profit,  and 
the  seller  in  the  market  will  also  make  a  profit — but  he  himself 
must  sell  it  in  the  market. 

The  rabbis  taught:  It  may  be  prayed  by  blowing  of  horns, 
even  on  Sabbath,  when  business  becomes  dull.  Said  R.  Jo- 
hanan:  This  is  to  be  done  in  case  remnants  of  flax  become  very 
low  in  Babylon,  and  wine  and  oil  in  Palestine.  Said  R.  Joseph: 
Provided  that  the  stuff  was  lowered  to  near  half-price. 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  199 

The  rabbis  taught:  One  must  not  emigrate  from  Palestine 
to  other  provinces,  unless  the  price  of  grain  has  increased  to  the 
extent  of  a  selah  for  two  saahs.  Said  R.  Simeon:  This  is  only 
when  one  could  not  find  any  grain  at  all  to  buy;  but  if  he  can 
get  it  even  at  the  price  of  a  selah  for  each  saah,  one  must  not 
emigrate.  And  so  also  was  the  opinion  of  R.  Simeon  b.  Johai, 
who  used  to  say  that  Elimelech,  Mahlon,  and  Kilyon  were  the 
great  men  of  their  generation,  and  were  their  leaders;  and  they 
were  punished  only  because  they  emigrated  from  Palestine. 
As  it  is  written  [Ruth,  i.  19]:  "  All  the  city  was  in  commotion 
about  them,  and  people  said.  Is  this  Naomi?"  And  to  the 
question:  What  does  it  mean  ?  said  R.  Itz'hak:  It  means:  See 
what  has  become  of  Naomi,  who  emigrated  from  Palestine. 

He  said  again :  At  that  day  when  Ruth  reached  Palestine, 
the  wife  of  Boaz  had  died ;  and  this  is  what  people  say,  that 
before  the  deceased  departed  the  substitute  for  managing  the 
house  was  already  prepared.  Rabba  b.  R.  Huna  in  the  name 
of  Rabh  said :  Boaz  is  identical  with  Ibzan.  What  came  he  to 
teach  us  ?  That  which  was  said  in  his  name  elsewhere,  viz. : 
One  hundred  and  twenty  banquets  Boaz  made  for  his  children. 
As  it  is  written  [Judges,  xii.  9]:  "  And  he  had  thirty  sons,  and 
thirty  daughters  he  sent  abroad,  and  thirty  daughters  he  brought 
in  for  his  sons  from  abroad,"  etc.  And  at  each  marriage  two 
banquets  were  given — one  in  the  father's  and  one  in  the  father- 
in-law's  house — and  to  not  one  of  them  did  he  invite  Manoah, 
saying:  What  return  can  I  expect  of  this  childless  man  ?  And 
there  is  a  Boraitha  that  all  the  children  died  when  he  (Boaz)  was 
still  alive.  And  he  remarried  and  begat  one  who  was  better 
than  all  the  sixty,  the  same  was  Obed,  who  was  born  by  Ruth, 
from  whom  David  descended. 

R.  Hanan  b.  Rabha  in  the  name  of  Rabh  said:  Elimelech, 
Shalman  the  kinsman,  [Ruth,  iv.  i]  and  the  father  of  Naomi  all 
were  the  descendants  of  Nahshon  ben  Aminadab.  To  what 
purpose  was  it  said  ?  To  teach  that  even  him  who  is  a  descend- 
ant of  such  great  men,  the  meritorious  acts  of  his  parents  do 
not  absolve  him  when  he  emigrates  from  Palestine.  The  same 
said  again  in  the  name  of  the  same  authority:  The  name  of 
Abraham's  mother  was  Amthlai  bath  Khrubu,  and  the  name  of 
Haman's  mother  was  Amthlai  bath  Urbthi;  the  name  of  the 
mother  of  David  was  Nzb'th  bath  Edal ;  the  mother  of  Samp- 
son, Z'llpunith,  and  his  sister  N'shiin.  To  what  purpose  was 
this  said  ?      For  an  answer  to  the  Epicuristen  (who  deny  all 


200  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

the  legends  of  the  Bible,  saying,  for  instance:  If  Abraham  ex- 
isted, why  was  his  mother's  name  not  mentioned,  as  doubtless 
his  father  had  many  wives,  and  the  mother  of  Abraham  should 
be  distinguished,  the  same  being  the  case  with  the  others  men- 
tioned above?  and  we  answer  them  that  all  their  names  are 
known  to  us  traditionally). 

The  same  said  again  in  the  name  of  the  same  authority: 
Abraham  our  father  was  in  prison  ten  years — three  in  the  city 
of  Khutha  and  seven  in  Qurdu.  R.  Dimi  of  Nahardea,  how- 
ever, taught  the  reverse  (seven  in  Khutha  and  three  in  Qurdu; 
some  say  that  he  was  imprisoned  by  Nimrod  and  others  by  his 
father,  because  he  broke  his  idols).  R.  Hisda  said:  The  city 
Eibra-Zeira  of  Khutha  is  the  city  Ur  Kasdim  mentioned  in  the 
Bible. 

R.  Hanan  b.  Rabha  in  the  name  of  Rabh  said  again:  On  the 
day  when  Abraham  our  father  departed  from  this  world,  all  the 
great  men  of  the  nations  stood  up  in  a  file  and  said :  Woe  to  the 
world,  that  has  lost  its  leader !  and  woe  to  the  ship,  that  has 
lost  its  jt^y5f/3V7<27?  (steerer) ! 

It  is  written  [I  Chron.  xxix.  ii]:  "And  thou  art  exalted 
as  the  head  above  all."  And  the  above  said  in  the  name  of 
Rabh :  Even  an  ofificer  of  wells  (who  has  to  keep  order  in  using 
them  for  watering  the  fields)  is  appointed  by  Heaven  {i.e.,  that 
even  such  an  insignificant  ofifice  is  not  filled  without  the  decree 
of  Heaven;  and  he  takes  the  verse  literally,  "  and  thou  art  ex- 
alted over  all  the  heads  that  are  appointed  by  thee  "). 

R.  Hyya  b.  Abin  in  the  name  of  R.  Jehoshua  b.  Karsha 
said:  Elimelech  would  not  emigrate  from  Palestine,  if  he  could 
get  even  bran-f^our  for  use.  But  why  was  he  punished  ?  Be- 
cause he  ought  to  have  prayed  for  his  generation,  which  he  did 
not.  As  it  is  written  [Is.  Ivii.  13]:  "By  thy  crying  thou  canst 
be  saved  with  all  who  are  gathered  with  thee."  *  Said  Rabba 
b.  b.  Hana  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan :  One  must  not  emigrate 
from  Palestine  when  money  is  cheap,  but  the  grain  high ;  but  if 
vice  versa,  even  when  the  price  of  four  saahs  is  only  one  selah. 
one  may.  As  R.  Johanan  said:  I  remember  a  time  when  there 
were  four  saahs  for  one  selah,  and  there  were  many  who  starved, 
as  they  did  not  have  an  issar.  And  he  said  again:  I  remember 
that  working  people  did  not  wish  to  take  work  on  the  east  side 
of  the  city,  as  the  smell  of  bread  (which  the  west  wind  carried 

*  Leeser  translates  differently ;  the  Talmud,  however,  takes  it  literally. 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  201 

to  them)  would  kill  them,  as  they  had  not  eaten  fresh  bread  for 
a  long  time.  The  same  said  again :  I  remember  when  a  child 
used  to  break  a  piece  of  carob,  threads  of  honey  would  leak  out 
and  moisten  his  hands.  R.  Elazar  said :  I  remember,  when  a 
raven  would  catch  a  piece  of  meat,  a  thread  of  fat  would  be  seen 
dropping  from  the  height  to  the  ground.  R.  Johanan  said 
again  :  I  remember  times  when  a  young  girl  of  sixteen  and  a  boy 
of  seventeen  walked  together  and  did  not  sin.  He  said  again: 
I  remember  what  was  said  in  college :  Who  yields  to  idolaters 
in  discussion,  the  end  will  be  that  he  will  fall  into  their  hands; 
and  he  who  confides  in  them,  all  that  he  possesses  will  remain  in 
their  hands. 

It  is  written  [Ruth,  i.  2]:  "  Mahlon  and  Kilyon,"  and  in 
[I  Chron.  iv.  22]:  "  Joash  and  Saraph."  Rabh  and  Samuel 
differ.  One  said  that  the  real  names  were  Mahlon  and  Kilyon ; 
but  why  were  they  named  Joash  and  Saraph  ?  Joash,  because 
they  despaired  of  redemption,  and  Saraph,  because  they  were 
liable  to  burning.  And  the  other  says  their  real  names  were 
Joash  and  Saraph ;  and  why  were  they  named  Mahlon  and  Kil- 
yon ?  Mahlon,  because  they  made  themselves  very  common 
by  their  emigration,  and  Kilyon,  because  they  were  liable  to 
destruction.* 

It  seems  that  Mahlon  and  Kilyon  were  their  real  names,  as 
we  have  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha:  It  is  written  [ibid,, 
ibid.]:  "And  Jokim  and  the  men  of  Coseba,  and  Joash  and 
Saraph,  who  had  dominion  in  Moab  and  Jashubi-lechem.  And 
these  are  ancient  things." 

Jokim  means  Joshua,  who  had  confirmed  the  oath  which  was 
given  to  the  men  of  Gibeon  ;  and  "  the  men  of  Coseba  "  f  means 
the  men  of  Gibeon,  who  lied  before  Joshua.  Joash  and  Saraph 
were  Mahlon  and  Kilyon ;  and  why  were  they  named  Joash  and 
Saraph  ?  Because  they  despaired  of  redemption,  and  for  this 
they  were  liable  to  burning.  "Who  had  dominion  in  Moab" 
means  that  they  had  married  daughters  of  Moab.  "  And 
Jashubi-lechem  "  means  Ruth  the  Moabitess,  who  had  returned 
and  was  attached  to  Beth-Se'hem.  "  And  these  are  ancient 
things"  means  the  above  was  said  by  Him  who  is  older  than 
the  days.  As  it  is  written  [Ps,  Ixxxix.  21]:  "I  have  found 
David  my  servant."     It  is  also  written  [Gen.  xix.  15]:  "And 

*  Joash  means  despair;  Saraph,  burn;  Choolin,  common;  and  Kilyon,  de- 
stroying. 

f  Khzb  in  Hebrew  means  lie. 


202  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

thy  two  daughters,  that  are  found."  *  It  is  written  [I  Chron.  iv. 
23] :  "  These  were  the  potters  (Hayozrim),  and  those  that 
dwelt  in  plantations  and  sheepfolds ;  for  the  king's  sake,  to  do 
his  work,  they  dwelt  there."  Hayozrim  f  means  the  children 
of  Jonadabh  b.  Rechab,  who  preserved  the  oath  of  their  father. 
In  plantations  "  means  the  king  Solomon,  who  was  a  plant  in 
his  kingdom.  Vegidroh  (sheepfolds)  means  the  Sanhedrin,  who 
had  fenced  the  broken  partition  of  Israel.  "  For  the  king's 
sake,"  etc.,  means  Ruth  the  Moabitess,  who  lived  to  see  the 
kingdom  of  Solomon  her  great-grandson.  As  it  is  written 
[I  Kings,  ii.  19]:  "  And  placed  a  chair  for  the  king's  mother." 
And  R.  Elazar  said  that  it  means  "  to  the  mother  of  the  king- 
dom." 

The  rabbis  taught:  It  is  written  [Lev.  xxv.  22]:  "  Shall  ye 
eat  yet  of  the  old  harvest,"  which  means  without  need  of  pre- 
serving. How  is  this  to  be  understood  ?  Said  R.  Na'hman: 
It  will  not  be  worm-eaten.  And  R.  Shesheth  said:  It  will  not 
be  singed.  There  is  a  Boraitha  in  accordance  with  R.  Na'hman: 
"  Of  the  old  harvest,"  lest  one  say  that  Israel  must  wait  for  the 
new  crop,  as  the  old  has  already  gone,  therefore  it  is  written 
[ibid.,  ibid.]:  "  Until  its  harvest  come  in,"  which  means,  until 
the  harvest  shall  come  by  itself  (and  he  will  not  need  to  take  it 
before  it  is  ripe,  and  make  it  fit  for  use  by  drying). 

And  there  is  also  a  Boraitha  in  accordance  with  R.  Shesheth : 
"  Ye  shall  eat  yet  from  the  old  harvest,"  lest  one  say  that  Israel 
would  have  to  wait  for  the  new  harvest  because  the  old  one 
became  spoiled,  therefore  it  is  written,  "  Until  its  harvest  come 
^in,"  which  means  that  the  old  will  suffice  until  the  new  shall 
come  in  its  natural  way,  without  any  need  to  take  it  before  it 
is  ripe. 

The  rabbis  taught:  It  is  written  [ibid.  xxvi.  10]:  "  And  ye 
shall  eat  very  old  store."  From  this  maybe  inferred  that  a 
thing  that  is  older  is  better,  but  this  is  said  of  things  which  are 
used  to  be  preserved.  But  whence  do  we  know  of  things  which 
are  not  to  be  preserved?  Therefore  it  is  written:  "  Joshon 
Noshon  "  (literally,  old,  old)  [ibid.,  ibid.],  "  and  the  old  ye  shall 
remove  because  of  the  new,"  from  which  is  to  be  inferred  that 
at  that  time  all  their  granaries  were  filled  up  with  the  old  crop 
and  their  barns  with  the  new.     And  Israel  used  to  say:  "  Why 

*  Leeser  translates   "they  are  here";    but  in  the   Bible  is  written   Hninzouth, 
literally,  "  who  are  found." 

f  Nozar  in  Hebrew  mtSins preserveJ. 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  203 

should  we  remove  the  old,  which  is  as  good  as  the  new,  for  the 
latter  ?" 

Said  R.  Papa:  All  old  things  are  good,  except  dates  and  the 
beer  thereof,  and  harsnah  (a  dish  at  that  time  used  by  the  poor 
— see  Aboda  Zara,  73«). 

Rabba  said:*  Sailors  told  me  the  wave  that  usually  makes 
the  ship  sink  is  visible  by  a  ray  of  whitish  light,  and  we  struck 
it  with  a  stick,  upon  which  is  engraved,  "  I  will  be  that  I  will 
be"  [Ex.  iii.  14].  Then  it  became  quiet.  He  said  again:  The 
sailors  told  me  that  from  one  wave  to  the  other  are  three  hun- 
dred parsas,  and  the  height  of  each  wave  is  also  three  hundred 
parsas.  It  once  happened  that  I  was  on  the  boat,  and  a  wave 
lifted  me  up  to  such  a  height  that  I  could  see  the  basis  of  a  little 
star,  and  in  my  eyes  it  looked  as  a  space  where  forty  saahs  of 
mustard  could  be  sown.  Should  the  wave  have  lifted  me  up 
higher,  I  would  have  been  burned  by  the  heat  of  that  star;  and 
I  heard  a  voice,  one  wave  speaking  to  the  other :  My  colleague, 
did  you  leave  something  in  the  world  which  thou  hast  not 
destroyed,  that  I  may  accomplish  it  ?  And  the  answer  was:  Go 
and  see  the  Might  of  thy  Master,  as  there  is  only  one  row  of 
sand  that  separates  the  sea  from  the  land ;  and  yet  I  could  not 
step  over  it.  As  it  is  written  [Jer.  v.  22]:  "  Will  ye  not  fear 
me  ?  saith  the  Lord ;  will  ye  not  tremble  at  my  presence,  who 
have  placed  the  sand  as  a  bound  for  the  sea  by  an  everlasting 
law,  which  it  never  can  pass  over  ?  and  though  the  waves  thereof 
be  upheaved,  yet  can  they  not  prevail ;  though  they  roar,  yet 
can  they  not  pass  over  it." 

He  said  again:  I  have  seen  Hurnim  bar  Lilith,  who  jumped 
on  the  top  of  brick-houses  of  the  city  of  Mehusa,  and  was  run- 
ning so  fast  from  one  to  the  other  that  a  rider  could  not  over- 
take him.  Once  it  happened  that  two  mules  were  saddled  for 
him  on  the  two  bridges  over  the  river  Druggring,  which  were  far 
from  each  other,  and  he  jumped  continually  from  one  saddle  to 
the  other,  while  holding  two  cups  of  wine,  pouring  from  one 
into  the  other  continually  without  spilling  one  drop,  and  this 


*  This  matter  is  transferred  from  its  place  at  p.  167.     See  foot-note  there. 

The  Hagadah  is  known  under  the  name  Rabba's  or  Rabha  b.  b.  Hana's 
Legends.  The  scores  of  commentators  thereon  say  that  this  is  allegoric,  and  each 
of  them  tries  to  explain  after  his  manner  {e.g.,  philospher,  philosophically,  moralist, 
morally,  etc.).  We,  however,  translate  literally,  without  any  explanation,  leaving  it 
for  the  consideration  of  the  reader. 


204  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD, 

day  was  such  a  stormy  one,  as  illustrated  [Ps.  cvii.  28],  until  the 
government  took  notice  of  him,  and  he  was  slain.* 

He  said  again :  I  have  seen  a  roebuck  one  day  old,  which 
was  like  the  mountain  of  Tabur,  which  measures  four  parsas; 
and  the  length  of  its  neck  was  three  parsas  and  the  space  cov- 
ered by  its  head  one  and  a  half  parsas;  and  when  it  emitted 
excrement  it  stopped  the  Jordan. 

Rabba  b.  b.  Hana  said  again  :  I  have  seen  an  alligator  as  large 
as  the  city  of  Hagrunia,  which  contained  sixty  houses.  A  snake 
came  and  swallowed  it,  and  a  large-tailed  raven  came  and  swal- 
lowed the  snake,  and  then  the  raven  sat  on  a  tree.  Come  and 
see  how  strong  was  that  tree  !  R.  Papa  b.  Samuel  said  :  If  I  had 
not  been  there,  I  should  not  have  believed  it. 

Rabba  said  again:  At  one  time  when  on  board  of  a  ship  I 
saw  a  fish  into  whose  gills  a  reptile  crept  from  which  it  died,  the 
sea  throwing  it  out  on  land.  And  sixty  streets  were  destroyed 
by  its  fall,  and  sixty  streets  consumed  its  flesh,  and  sixty  other 
streets  salted  the  flesh  that  was  left ;  and  from  one  eye  they 
filled  three  hundred  measures  of  oil ;  and  when  I  returned 
thither  after  twelve  months,  I  saw  its  bones  being  sawed  to 
restore  the  streets  that  were  destroyed  by  it. 

He  said  again:  At  one  time  I  was  on  board  of  a  ship,  which 
was  driven  between  two  fins  of  a  fish,  three  days  and  three 
nights  the  fish  was  swimming  against  the  wind  and  we  were  sail- 
ing with  the  wind  [and  lest  one  say  that  the  ship  did  not  go  fast 
enough,  when  R.  Dimi  came  from  Palestine,  he  said  that  <t  was 
so  fast  that  in  the  time  of  heating  a  cumcuma  of  water  the  ship 
ran  sixty  parsas,  and  a  rider  shooting  an  arrow  at  the  same  time 
could  not  be  swifter  than  the  ship].  And  R.  Ashi  said  that  this 
was  one  of  the  smallest  fishes  of  the  sea  which  has  two  fins. 

The  same  Rabba  said  again:  It  once  happened  that  I  was 
going  on  a  boat,  and  saw  a  fish  on  which  sand  was  gathered  and 
grass  grown  thereupon.  And  we  thought  it  was  an  island, 
descended,  baked  and  cooked  upon  it.  When  the  back  of  the 
fish  grew  hot,  it  turned  over,  and  had  the  ship  not  been  so  near 
we  would  have  been  drowned. 

The  same  Rabba  said  again :  At  one  time  while  on  board  of 
a  ship  I  saw  a  bird  which  was  standing  in  water  that  reached 
only  up  to  its  toes;  its  head,  however,  reached  the  sky,  and  we 

*  Whether  he  was  a  human  being  or  a  demon,  it  is  hard  to  say.  As  to  this, 
commentators  differ,  and  also  as  to  which  government — whether  natural  or 
supernatural. 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  205 

thought  the  water  was  shallow,  so  we  were  about  to  bathe  there, 
when  we  heard  a  heavenly  voice :  Do  not  go  down,  for  a  carpen- 
ter here  lost  an  axe  seven  years  ago,  and  still  it  has  not  reached 
the  ground — not  because  it  is  so  deep,  but  because  of  the  cur- 
rent. Said  R.  Ashi:  This  bird  is  the  Zeez  Sodai  mentioned  in 
Ps.  1.   II. 

Rabba  b.  b.  Hana  said  again:  It  happened  once,  while  in 
the  desert,  that  I  saw  geese  of  which  the  feathers  fell  out  owing 
to  their  fatness,  and  a  whole  river  of  fat  was  beneath  them,  and 
to  my  question,  "  Have  I  a  share  in  you  in  the  world  to  come  ?  " 
one  of  them  lifted  up  its  wing,  and  one  of  them  a  foot.  When 
I  told  this  to  R.  Elazar,  he  said :  Israel  will  be  punished  for 
them,  as  by  his  sin  Messiah  does  not  come,  and  the  geese  must 
endure  their  fatness. 

The  same  Rabba  said  again  :  Once  while  in  the  desert  we 
were  accompanied  by  an  Arabian  merchant  who  used  to  take 
a  clod  of  earth,  smell  it,  and  say:  This  way  leads  to  such  a 
place,  and  this  to  such  a  one.  And  we  asked  him:  How  far  are 
we  from  water  ?  And  he  smelt  the  earth,  saying:  Eight  parsas. 
Thereafter  we  gave  him  other  earth  to  smell,  and  he  said :  Three 
parsas.  I  changed  the  clods  of  earth,  but  we  could  not  deceive 
him,  and  he  said  to  me:  Come  with  me.  I  will  show  you  the 
corpses  of  the  dead  in  the  desert  at  the  time  of  Moses.  I  did 
so,  and  their  appearance  was  as  fresh  as  if  they  went  to  sleep 
while  drinking.  All  of  them  were  lying  on  their  backs.  The 
foot  of  one  of  them,  however,  was  lifted  up,  and  the  merchant, 
while  riding  and  holding  a  spear  in  his  hand,  passed  beneath  it, 
without  reaching  the  joint  of  his  knee.  I  took  and  cut  off  a 
corner  of  one's  ialiths,^'  in  which  were  tsitsith.  Then  neither 
we  nor  our  cattle  could  stir.  Said  the  merchant  to  me:  Per- 
haps you  have  taken  something  belonging  to  the  dead,  as  I  have 
a  tradition  that  if  one  takes  something  from  them  he  cannot 
stir.  When  I  told  this  to  the  rabbis,  they  said:  The  whole 
Abba  is  an  ass,  and  the  whole  Bar  Bar  Hanah  is  nonsense  (all 
his  stories  are).  For  what  purpose  didst  thou  take  it  ?  To 
know  with  whom  the  Halakha  concerning  tsitsith  prevails — 
vv'hether  with  the  school  of  Shammaif  or  with  the  school  of 
Hillel  ?  Then  thou  oughtest  to  have  investigated  their  tsitsith 
by  counting  the  threads  and  knots.     Then  (continued  Bar  Bar 


*  The  garment  in  which  tsitsith  are  woven. 

\  In  Tract  Menachoth  the  schools  differ  in  the  number  of  threads  and  knots. 


2o6  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Hanah)  the  merchant  said  to  me:  Come  and  I  will  show  you 
the  mountain  of  Sinai.  I  followed  him,  and  saw  that  it  was 
surrounded  by  serpents.  All  of  them  were  standing,  and  looked 
like  white  asses.  I  also  heard  a  heavenly  voice  saying:  Woe  is 
me  that  I  have  sworn ;  and  now  after  having  so  done,  who  will 
absolve  me  from  that  oath  ?  When  I  told  this  before  the  rabbis, 
they  said  again:  The  whole  Abba  is  an  ass,  etc.  Why  didst 
thou  not  say:  Thou  art  absolved,  thou  art  absolved?  [He, 
however,  did  not  do  so,  because  he  thought :  Perhaps  it  means 
the  oath  for  the  deluge,  referring  to  what  is  written  in  Is.  liv.  9: 
"  As  I  have  sworn  that  the  waters  of  Noah,"  etc.  The  rabbis, 
however,  were  right  in  accusing  him,  as  if  it  were  about  the 
deluge,  why,  then,  "  woe  is  me"  ?]  The  same  merchant  said 
to  me:  Come  and  I  will  show  you  the  place  where  the  children 
of  Korah  were  swallowed.  And  I  saw  two  crevices  in  the 
ground  from  which  smoke  issued.  I  took  a  piece  of  wool, 
wetted  it  with  water,  put  it  on  my  spear,  placed  it  in  the  crevice, 
and  when  I  took  it  out  it  was  smudging.  And  the  merchant 
said  to  me:  Stoop  down  and  hear.  And  I  heard  them  saying: 
Moses  and  his  Torah  are  true,  and  we  are  liars.  Said  the  mer- 
chant to  me:  Each  thirtieth  day  of  the  month,  Gehenna  turns 
them  over  here,  like  meat  in  a  kettle,  and  they  (the  swallowed) 
repeat  the  above. 

He  said  again  to  me:  Come  and  I  will  show  you  where  the 
sky  and  earth  meet.  I  followed  him,  took  my  basket,  and  put 
it  on  the  window  of  the  sky.  After  praying,  I  searched  for  it 
but  could  not  find  it.  Then  I  said  to  the  merchant:  Are  there, 
then,  thieves  here  ?  And  he  answered :  It  was  the  wheel  of  the 
sky  which  took  it  with  it.  Wait  until  to-morrow  at  this  same 
time  and  you  will  find  it. 

R.  Johanan  used  to  tell:  Once  while  on  board  of  a  boat  I 
saw  a  fish  which  raised  its  head  out  of  the  water,  and  its  eyes 
looked  like  two  moons;  water  was  pouring  from  both  of  its 
nostrils  like  the  two  rivers  of  Sura. 

R.  Saphra  used  to  tell:  Once  while  on  board  of  a  boat  I  saw 
a  fish  which  had  horns  raising  up  its  head  from  the  water,  and 
on  its  horns  was  engraved  thus:  "  I  am  oi  the  small  creatures 
in  the  sea  and  measure  three  hundred  parsas,  and  I  am  going 
into  the  mouth  of  the  leviathan."  Said  R.  Ashi :  This  is  a  sea- 
goat  that  digs  with  its  horns  the  ground  of  the  sea. 

R.  Johanan  told  again:  Once  while  on  board  of  a  boat  I  saw 
a  _;j;arpra;Ao?  (a  kind  of  basket)  which  was  set  with  diamonds  and 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST    GATE).  207 

pearls  and  surrounded  by  a  kind  of  fish  called  karshak,  and  a 
diver  descended  in  order  to  catch  it ;  but  the  basket  made 
a  motion  and  threatened  to  break  his  leg.  He,  however,  threw  a 
leather  bag  containing  vinegar  (according  to  others  a  leather  bag 
with  sand)  towards  it,  and  the  basket  sank.  At  the  same  time 
a  heavenly  voice  spoke  to  us:  What  business  have  ye  with  this 
kartilitha,  which  belongs  to  the  wife  of  R.  Hanina  b.  Dosa,  who 
will  deposit  in  it  the  purple  for  the  upright  in  the  world  to 
come  ? 

R.  Jehudah  of  Mesopotamia  used  to  tell:  Once  while  on 
board  of  a  ship  I  saw  a  diamond  that  was  encircled  by  a  snake, 
and  a  diver  went  to  catch  it.  The  snake  then  opened  its  mouth, 
threatening  to  swallow  the  ship.  Then  a  raven  came,  bit  off  its 
head,  and  all  water  around  turned  into  blood.  Then  another 
snake  came,  took  the  diamond,  put  it  on  the  carcass,  and  it 
became  alive;  and  again  it  opened  its  mouth,  in  order  to  swal- 
low the  ship.  Another  bird  then  came,  bit  off  its  head,  took 
the  diamond,  and  threw  it  on  the  ship.  We  had  with  us  salted 
birds,  and  we  wanted  to  try  whether  the  diamond  would  bring 
them  to  life,  so  we  placed  the  gem  on  them,  and  they  became 
animated,  and  flew  away  with  the  gem. 

The  rabbis  taught:  It  happened  with  R.  Eliezer  and  R. 
Jehoshua  who  were  on  a  ship,  that  R.  Eliezer  was  asleep  and 
R.  Jehoshua  awake.  The  latter  became  frightened,  so  that 
R.  Eliezer  awoke,  and  said:  W^hat  is  the  matter,  Jehoshua? 
What  have  you  seen  that  frightened  you  ?  And  he  answered : 
I  have  seen  a  great  light  on  the  sea.  Rejoined  R.  Eliezer:  Per- 
haps you  have  seen  the  eyes  of  the  leviathan  about  which  is 
written  [Job,  xli.  10]  :  "  And  his  eyes  are  like  the  eyelids  of  the 
morning  dawn." 

R.  Ashi  said:  Huna  b.  Nathan  told  me:  It  happened  once, 
while  I  was  in  the  desert,  and  we  had  with  us  a  leg  of  meat,  that 
we  cut  it,  made  it  legal  for  eating,  put  it  on  the  grass,  and  went 
to  gather  Avood  for  roasting.  When  we  returned,  the  leg  had 
resumed  the  shape  it  had  before  it  was  cut ;  and  we  then  roasted 
it.  When  we  returned  after  twelve  months,  the  coals  upon 
which  it  was  roasted  were  still  alive.  When  I  told  this  to 
Amemar,  he  said  that  the  grass  was  sanitrie,  that  has  the  quality 
of  combining  things  which  were  previously  separated ;  and  the 
coals  were  of  broom-brush,  which  when  ignited  remains  alive  for 
a  long,  long  time. 

It  is  written  [Gen.  i.  21]:  "  And  God  created  the  great  sea 


2o8  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

monsters."  Here  in  Babylon  they  translate  this  the  reem  of 
the  sea.  R.  Johanan,  however,  says:  It  means  leviathan — levi- 
athan male  and  female,  as  it  is  written  [Is.  xxvii.  i] :  "On  that 
day  will  the  Lord  punish  with  his  heavy  and  great  and  strong 
sword  leviathan  the  flying  serpent  and  leviathan  the  crooked 
serpent,  and  he  will  slay  the  crocodile  that  is  in  the  sea." 

R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh  said:  All  that  the  Holy 
One,  blessed  be  He,  created,  was  male  and  female,  and  also  the 
leviathan — the  flying  serpent  male  and  the  crooked  serpent 
female;  and  if  they  should  have  intercourse  they  would  destroy 
the  world.  Therefore  the  Lord  made  the  male  impotent,  and 
killed  the  female  and  salted  it  for  the  upright  in  the  world  to 
come,  as  it  is  written  [ibid.]:  "  And  he  will  slay  the  crocodile," 
etc. ;  "  and  also  the  cattle  upon  a  thousand  mountains  "  [Ps.  1. 
lo].  He  created  them  male  and  female,  and  if  they  should  have 
intercourse  they  would  destroy  the  world.  Therefore  the  Holy 
One,  blessed  be  He,  made  impotent  the  male  and  made  cold  the 
female,  and  preserved  it  for  the  upright  in  the  world  to  come, 
as  it  is  written  [Job,  xl.  i6]:  "only  see  (how  great)  is  the 
strength  in  his  loins,"  meaning  the  male,  "  and  his  force  in  the 
muscles  of  his  belly,"  meaning  the  female. 

But  why  did  He  not  make  cold  the  female  of  the  leviathan 
also  ?  Because  a  salted  female  has  a  better  taste.  And  why 
did  He  not  salt  the  females  of  the  cattle  in  question  ?  Salted 
fish  gives  a  good  taste,  but  salted  meat  does  not. 

The  same  said  again  in  the  name  of  the  same  authority:  At 
the  time  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  willed  to  create  tlie 
world,  He  said  to  the  ruler  of  the  sea:  Open  thy  mouth,  and 
swallow  all  waters  that  are  to  be  found  in  the  world.  And  he 
said :  Lord  of  the  Universe,  is  it  not  enough  that  I  swallow  the 
water  under  my  dominion  ?  And  he  was  therefore  killed  imme- 
diately, as  it  is  written  [ibid.  12]:  "  By  his  power  he  split  in 
pieces  the  sea,  and  by  his  understanding  he  crushed  Rahab." 
Said  R.  Itz'hak:  Infer  from  this  that  the  name  of  the  ruler  of 
this  sea  is  Rahab,  and  did  not  the  waters  of  the  sea  cover  the 
body,  not  one  of  the  creatures  could  remain  alive  owing  to  the 
bad  smell,  as  it  is  written  [Is.  xi.  9]:  "  They  shall  not  do  hurt 
nor  destroy  ...  as  the  waters  cover  the  sea."  Do  not 
read  "  cover  the  sea,"  but  "  cover  the  ruler  of  the  sea." 

R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh  said  again:  The  Jordan 
discharges  by  the  cave  of  Pmias.  There  is  also  a  Boraitha:  The 
Jordan  discharges  by  the  cave  of  Pmias,  and  flows  to  the  sea  of 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  209 

Sipchi,  of  Tiberias,  until  it  reaches  the  ocean;  and  through  it 
it  flows  until  it  reaches  the  mouth  of  the  leviathan,  as  it  is  writ- 
ten [Job,  xl.  23] :  "  He  remaineth  quiet,  though  a  Jordan  rush- 
eth  up  to  his  mouth." 

Rabha  b.  Ula  opposed:  "  Did  not  this  verse  speak  of  the 
cattle  on  the  thousand  mountains  ?  Therefore,"  said  he,  "  this 
verse  must  be  interpreted  thus:  When  are  the  cattle  in  question 
sure  that  they  shall  remain  alive  ?  When  the  Jordan  reaches 
the  mouth  of  the  leviathan  {i.e.,  so  long  as  the  leviathan  lives, 
they  are  sure  that  they  shall  remain  alive,  as  all  are  prepared 
for  the  world  to  come  when  the  Messiah  shall  appear)." 

When  R.  Dimi  came  from  Palestine,  he  said  in  the  name  of 
R.  Johanan :  It  is  written  in  Ps.  xxiv.  2:  "  For  upon  seas  he 
hath  founded  it,  and  upon  rivers  he  hath  established  it."  It 
means  the  seven  seas  and  four  rivers  which  surround  the  land 
of  Israel  (Palestine) ;  and  they  are  the  sea  of  Tiberias,  Sodom, 
Chirat,  Chiltha,  Sipchi,  Aspamia,  and  the  Ocean:  these  are  the 
seven  seas,  and  the  four  rivers  are  Jordan,  Jarmuch,  Kirumyun, 
and  Phiga. 

The  same  R.  Dimi  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Jonathan :  The 
angel  Gabriel  will  go  hunting  for  the  leviathan,  as  it  is  written 
[Job,  xl.  25]:  "  Canst  thou  draw  out  the  crocodile  (leviathan) 
with  a  fishhook  ?  or  cause  his  tongue  to  sink  into  the  baited 
rope?"  And  should  not  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  help 
him,  he  would  not  conquer  him,  as  it  is  written  [ibid.,  ibid.  19] : 
"  He  is  the  first  in  rank  ...  he  that  hath  made  him  can 
alone  bring  his  sword  near  to  him." 

The  same  said  again  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan:  When  the 
leviathan  becomes  hungry,  he  expels  from  his  mouth  a  gas 
which  makes  boil  all  the  waters  in  the  deep,  as  it  is  written 
[ibid.  xli.  23]:  "  He  causeth  the  deep  to  boil."  And  should 
he  not  enter  his  head  in  paradise,  not  one  of  the  creatures  could 
withstand  the  bad  smell  of  the  gas,  as  it  is  written  [ibid.,  ibid.] : 
"  He  rendereth  the  sea  like  an  apothecary's  mixture."  And 
when  he  gets  thirsty,  he  makes  the  sea  hollow  like  beds,  as  it 
is  written  farther  on :  "  Behind  him  he  causeth  his  pathway  to 
shine."  And  R.  Aha  b.  Jacob  said:  The  deep  does  not  come 
to  its  natural  way  before  seventy  years,  as  it  is  written:  "  Men 
esteem  the  deep  to  be  hoary" — and  hoary  is  not  less  than 
seventy  years. 

Rabba  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan:  The  Holy  One, 
blessed  be  He,  will  make  a  banquet  for  the  upright  from  the 
14 


2IO  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

flesh  of  the  leviathan,  as  it  is  written  [ibid.  xl.  30]:  "  Yichrov* 
Olof  Chahvierim."  Yichrov  means  a  banquet,  as  it  is  written 
[II  Kings,  vi.  23]:  "  And  he  prepared  for  them  a  great  meal" 
(the  expression  in  Hebrew  being  Veyichre,  etc.);  and  Chahvierim 
means  scholars,  as  it  is  written  [Solomon's  Song,  viii.  13]: 
"Companions  (Chaverim)  listen  for  thy  voice,"  etc.  And  the 
remainder  of  it  will  be  cut  in  pieces,  and  be  sold  in  the  markets 
of  Jerusalem,  as  it  is  written  [Job,  xl.  30]  :  "  Divide  him  among 
merchants." 

The  same  said  again  in  the  name  of  the  same  authority:  The 
Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  will  make  a  booth  for  the  upright 
from  the  skin  of  the  leviathan,  as  it  is  written  [ibid.,  ibid.  31]: 
"  Canst  thou  fill  his  skin  with  Soukoth.''  f  If  the  upright  is  to 
have  a  booth,  a  booth  is  made  for  him  from  it ;  and  if  less,  a 
little  hut;  and  if  still  less,  a  necklace  will  be  made  for  him,  as 
it  is  written  [Prov.  i.  9]  :  "  And  chains  for  thy  throat  "  ;  and  if 
still  less,  an  amulet  will  be  made  for  him,  as  it  is  written  [Job, 
xl.  29] :  "  And  tie  him  up  for  thy  maidens  "  ?  And  the  remain- 
der of  the  skin  the  Lord  will  spread  on  the  walls  of  Jerusalem, 
and  the  brightness  of  it  will  shine  from  one  end  of  the  world  to 
the  other,  as  it  is  written  [Is.  Ix.  3]:  "  And  nations  shall  walk 
by  thy  light,  and  kings  by  the  brightness  of  thy  shining." 

It  is  written  [ibid.  liv.  12]:  "And  I  will  make  of  kadkad 
(rubies)  thy  battlements,"  etc.  Said  Samuel  b,  Nahmeni:  Two 
angels — in  heaven,  Gabriel  and  Michael,  according  to  others  two 
Amoraim  of  Palestine,  and  they  are  Jehudah  and  Hiskiyah  the 
sons  of  R.  Hyya — one  says  it  means  sJioJiam  (onyx)  and  others 
jasper,  and  the  Ploly  One,  blessed  be  He,  said:  Let  it  be  as 
both  say.  [Is.  liv.  12]:  "  And  thy  gates,"  etc.  This  is  as  R. 
Johanan  lectured  while  sitting:  The  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He 
will  bring  jewels  and  pearls  the  size  of  thirty  ells  square, 
twenty  ells  in  height  and  ten  in  width,  and  will  place  them 
on  the  gates  of  Jerusalem.  And  one  disciple  ridiculed  him: 
We  do  not  even  find  a  jewel  as  large  as  the  &^%  of  a  dove,  and 
he  lectured  about  such  sizes  ?  Thereafter  it  happened  that  the 
same  disciple  was  on  a  boat  on  the  high  sea,  and  he  saw  angels 
who  sawed  jewels  and  pearls  the  size  of  thirty  ells  square,  bor- 
ing holes  in  them  twenty  in  height  and  ten  in  width.  He  asked 
them:    For  what   purpose?      And   they  answered:    The   Holy 

*  Leeser's  translation  could  not  be  used  here. 

f  In  the  Scripture  it  is  written  with  Seen,  which  reads  like  Saniach,  and  Sukkah 
means  a  booth.     Leeser's  translation  cannot  here  be  used. 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  211 

One,  blessed  be  He,  will  place  them  on  the  gates  of  Jerusalem. 
And  when  he  returned  he  said  to  R.  Johanan :  Lecture,  Rabbi, 
for  all  you  said  is  true,  as  I  have  myself  seen.  And  R.  Johanan 
said  to  him :  Ignoramus,  if  you  had  not  seen  it,  you  would  not 
have  believed.  So  you  would  ridicule  the  words  of  the  sages  ? 
He  cast  his  eyes  on  him,  and  he  became  a  heap  of  bones. 

An  objection  was  raised:  It  is  written  [Lev.  xxvii.  13]:  "  I 
will  lead  you  ^z//«;«zW//."  *  R.  Meir  said:  It  means  two  hun- 
dred ells,  double  the  height  of  Adam  the  first,  who  was  one 
hundred  ells  in  height.  R.  Jehudah,  however,  said:  It  means 
one  hundred  ells,  the  size  of  the  Temple  with  its  walls,  as  it  is 
written  [Ps.  cxliv.  12]:  "So  that  our  sons  maybe  like  plants 
grown  up  in  their  youth,  our  daughters  like  corner-pillars,  sculp- 
tured after  the  model  of  a  palace."  (Hence  we  see  that  accord- 
ing to  both  the  height  of  the  Temple  will  be  one  hundred  ells 
at  least.  Why,  then,  said  R.  Johanan  only  twenty  in  height  ?) 
R.  Johanan  only  meant  for  the  windows  in  the  gates  that  let 
in  air. 

Rabba  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  said:  The  Holy  One, 
blessed  be  He,  will  make  seven  canopies  [chupas)  for  each 
upright,  as  it  is  written  [Is.  iv.  5]:  "And  then  will  the  Lord 
create  upon  every  dwelling  of  Mount  Zion,  and  upon  her  places 
of  assembly,  a  cloud  and  smoke  by  day,  and  the  brightness  of 
a  flaming  fire  by  night ;  for  over  all  the  glory  shall  be  a  covering 
{chupa).'"  Whence  we  deduce  that  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be 
He,  will  make  a  chiipa  to  each  upright  according  to  His  dignity. 
But  why  smoke  to  a  chupa?  Said  R.  Hanina:  Each  one  who 
looks  with  a  bad  eye  upon  the  scholars  in  this  world,  his  eyes 
will  be  filled  with  smoke  in  the  world  to  come.  And  why  fire 
(in  \.\\Q  chupa)!  Said  R.  Hanina:  Infer  from  this  that  each  of 
the  upright  will  be  burned  by  the  chupa  of  his  neighbor.  And 
woe  to  such  a  burn  and  such  a  shame !  {i.e.,  the  neighbor's  chupa 
is  so  beautiful  and  large  that  my  chupa  looks  like  a  small  hut 
against  his).  Similar  to  this  is  what  is  written  [Num.  xxvii. 
20]:  "And  thou  shalt  put  some  of  thy  greatness  upon  him." 
But  not  all  of  it.  The  elders  of  that  generation  used  to  say: 
The  appearance  of  Moses  was  like  the  sun,  and  the  appearance 
of  Joshua  like  the  moon.  Woe  to  such  a  burn!  woe  to  such 
a  shame! 

R.  Hama  b.  Hanina  said :  Ten  chupas  were  made  by  the  Holy 

*  Quomah  means  the  height  of  a  person,  qummiuth  means  two  heights.  Leeser's 
translation  cannot  be  used. 


212  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

One,  blessed  be  He,  for  Adam  the  first  in  paradise,  as  it  is 
written  [Ezek.  xxviii.  13]:  "In  Eden  the  garden  of  God  didst 
thou  abide;  every  precious  stone  was  thy  covering,  the  sardius, 
the  topaz,  and  the  diamond,  the  chrysolite,  the  onyx,  and  the 
jasper,  the  sapphire,  the  emerald,  and  the  carbuncle,  and  gold." 
(From  the  word  sardius,  including  the  word  gold,  are  ten  differ- 
ent kinds.)  Mar  Zutra  says:  Eleven — as  he  counts  all  the  pre- 
cious stones  also.  Said  R.  Johanan:  The  gold  was  less  in  value 
than  all  (as  it  is  placed  last).  What  is  meant  by  the  continuation 
of  the  same  verse:  "  Thy  tabrets  and  thy  flutes,"  etc.?  Said 
R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  So  said  the  Holy  One,  blessed 
be  He,  to  Hiram  the  king  of  Tyre:  When  I  created  the  world, 
and  saw  that  thou  wouldst  rebel,  deeming  thyself  a  god,  I  there- 
fore created  holes  and  flutes  in  men,  in  order  that  thou  shouldst 
be  known  as  human.  And  according  to  others  He  said:  "  I 
saw  that  thou  wouldst  rebel,"  etc.  I  have  therefore  punished 
Adam  the  first  with  death,  so  that  it  should  be  known  that  thou 
wast  human.  What  mean  the  words,  "  upon  her  places  of 
assembly"  (Isaiah,  in  the  above  cited  verse)?  Said  Rabba  in 
the  name  of  R.  Johanan:  Jerusalem  in  the  world  to  come  is  not 
like  Jerusalem  of  this  world.  In  the  latter  every  one  who  likes 
to  enter  does  so,  but  in  that  of  the  world  to  come  only  those 
invited  will  enter. 

He  said  again  in  the  name  of  said  authority:  In  the  world 
to  come  the  upright  will  be  named  with  the  names  of  the  Holy 
One,  blessed  be  He,  as  it  is  written  [Is.  xliii.  7]:  "  Every  one 
that  is  called  by  my  name,  and  whom  I  have  created  for  my 
glory,  whom  I  have  formed;  yea,  whom  I  have  made." 

Samuel  b.  Nahmeni  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan:  The 
following  three  will  be  named  with  the  name  of  the  Holy  One, 
blessed  be  He:  the  upr'ght^  as  said  above;  the  Messiah,  as  it  is 
written  [Jer.  xxiii.  6] :  "  And  this  is  his  name  whereby  he  shall 
be  called — The  Lord  Our  Righteousness";  and  Jerusalem,  as 
it  is  written  [Ezek.  xlviii.  35]:  "  And  the  name  of  that  city 
shall  be  from  that  day,  The  Lord  is  there"  {sJia^nali).  Do  not 
read  shamah  (there),  but  shmah  (her  name). 

R.  Elazar  said:  In  the  future,  holy  will  be  said  before  the 
upright  as  now  it  is  said  before  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He, 
as  it  is  written  [Is.  iv.  3] :  "  And  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  who- 
ever is  left  in  Zion,  and  he  that  remaineth  in  Jerusalem,  shall 
be  called  holy — every  one  that  is  written  down  unto  life  in 
Jerusalem." 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  213 

He  said  again  in  the  name  of  the  same  authority:  The  Holy 
One,  blessed  be  He,  will  increase  Jerusalem  three  parsas,  as  it 
is  written  [Zech.  xiv.  10]:  "  And  she  herself  shall  be  elevated, 
and  be  inhabited  on  her  former  site,"  which  means  that  it  will 
be  increased  to  its  former  size.  And  whence  do  you  know  that 
the  size  of  the  former  Jerusalem  was  three  parsas  ?  Said  Rabba  : 
There  was  a  certain  old  man  who  told  me  that  he  had  seen  the 
first  Jerusalem,  and  the  size  thereof  was  three  parsas.  And  lest 
one  say  that  it  would  be  difificult  to  ascend,  therefore  it  is  writ- 
ten [Is.  Ix.  8]:  "Who  are  these  that  are  like  a  cloud,"  etc. 
Said  R.  Papa:  Infer  from  this  that  the  clouds  are  at  a  height  of 
three  parsas  from  the  ground. 

R.  Hanina  b.  Papa  said:  The  Lord  wanted  to  give  a  measure 
to  Jerusalem,  as  it  is  written  [Zech.  ii.  6]:  "To  measure  Jeru- 
salem." And  the  angels  said  before  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be 
He:  Lord  of  the  Universe,  there  are  many  greafcities  thou  hast 
created  in  thy  world,  belonging  to  the  nations,  of  which  thou 
hast  not  determined  their  length  and  their  breadth.  For  Jeru- 
salem, upon  which  thy  name  rests,  where  is  thy  Temple,  and 
dwell  the  upright,  thou  dost  determine  a  measure. 

[Ibid.  8] :  "  And  he  said  unto  him.  Run,  speak  to  this  young 
man,  saying,  Without  walls  shall  Jerusalem  be  inhabited,  because 
of  the  multitude  of  men  and  cattle  in  her  midst." 

Resh  Lakish  said :  The  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  will  add 
a  Litsuy  (probably  a  suburb)  to  Jerusalem  a  thousand  times 
the  area  of  one  containing  country  seats  and  twelve  hundred 
Ttrpliriis,  a  thousand  towers  and  one  hundred  and  sixty-nine 
thousand  gardens,  and  each  of  all  that  is  said  above  will  be  like 
Ziporias  in  her  glory.  And  there  is  a  Boraitha  which  states: 
R.  Jose  said:  I  have  seen  Ziporias  in  her  glory,  and  there  were 
one  hundred  and  eighty  thousand  markets  in  which  only  spices 
for  dishes  were  sold.  It  is  written  [Ezek.  xli.  6]:  "And  the 
side  chambers  were  three  one  over  another,  and  thirty  times." 
What  does  that  mean  ?  Said  R.  Levi  in  the  name  of  R.  Papi, 
quoting  R.  Jehoshua  of  Skhui :  If  there  were  three  Jerusalems, 
each  of  them  had  thirty  chambers  on  the  top;  and  if  thirty 
Jerusalems,  each  of  them  had  three  chambers  on  the  top. 

END  OF  FIRST  PART  OF  TRACT  BABA  BATHRA 
AND  OF  VOL.  V.  (XIII.). 


214  'i'HE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 


APPENDIX   TO  MISHNA   I,    CHAP.    III.,    PAGE   83. 

We  deem  it  necessary  to  call  the  attention  of  the  reader  to 
the  fact  that  the  law  of  occupancy  was  chiefly  taken  from  the 
ancient  Roman  law*  about  usucapio  (occupancy),  which  dictates 
that  each  usucapio  without  titulius  (claim)  is  not  considered. 
The  claims  must  be  pro  emptore  (purchase)  or  pro  donato  (gift), 
pro  legato,  pro  dote,  ox  pro  herede  (inheritance) ;  and  with  usucapio, 
which  is  based  upon  inheritance,  no  other  claim  was  necessary. 
The  law  applied  even  when  it  was  known  that  the  occupant 
never  had  a  deed  to  what  he  had  occupied,  and  the  reason  was 
because  the  plaintiff  had  time  to  protest  three  years,  or  at  three 
harvestings,  and  when  he  did  not  make  any  claim  nor  any  pro- 
test, it  was  evident  that  the  occupant  had  a  right  to  occupy, 
and  no  other  evidence  was  needed.  There  is  also  a  difference 
between  prcBsentes  and  absentes  of  the  occupant.  However,  con- 
cerning servitutes  (service)  there  was  also  usucapio,  in  the  reverse; 
namely,  pro  libertate  (liberty),  which  means  that  the  servant  or 
bondsman  had  a  right  to  free  himself  by  non  usus — namely, 
when  during  three  years  he  was  never  put  to  any  work  by  his 
master  he  became  free.  But  there  was  no  usucapio  by  using  the 
bondsman,  even  if  for  several  years:  property  in  him  was  not 
acquired  if  he  had  no  other  evidence.  (See  Ltf.  Schweppe, 
§305.)  According  to  this,  Abraham  Krochmal,  in  his  Scholia 
to  the  Babylonian  Talmud  (p.  278)  maintains  that  the  term  "  to 
slaves"  in  the  Mishna  in  question  means  that  the  law  of  occu- 
pancy applies  to  these  slaves  themselves;  viz.,  after  three  years' 
rest  from  any  service  to  their  masters,  the  slaves  become  free, 
but  not,  in  accordance  with  the  Gemara,  conversely.  And  so 
he  also  explains  Resh  Lakish's  statement  (p.  96),  "  that  the 
law  of  hazakah  does  not  apply  to  a  living  creature,"  as  un- 
changeable, and  it  seems  to  us  that  so  it  is. 

*  The  law  of  occupancy  also  existed  in   Persia,  but  it  prescribed  no  less  than 
twenty  years.     See  text,  p.  loi. 


Princeton   Theological   Seminary   Libraries 

1    1012   01251    5823 


