














4, BH, JP A PP 
Hai 2G CE SC rh oe ot 
SA ey 
4 2625 
Se ot nen ae ne ne Be a 
Oe eee ee re 
ere eee Freee 
Ck ee oe ae OE OG 06 Oe 
he oe a a os 
“webetecteerenerse 

Fe vere 
aed as tad ots 
wae preety tet oto e> 
Cee ee 
sy : 
ere 
rare ee ae 
Bere Cr irlege 
IIS. WME 
ce POF: 
MSS 
ee 
ees 
of 
Zaeeet 
ee oh OS 
wetety 
ree ee 
ae ots 
viateete 
iM aeee% 
: nga as et 
s Se SgSs Wana 24 205 
hr 3 ASA eae ae Se 
ete Fe 94 2 of 
ie ok oe 
PA Puree 
6 leterete 
repay. 
» Set oe ae 
ata eoeoes 
Rag re 
ss ¥ 
ote oe 
Le My 









































y > 
Cade Manes 
Cotedes ate 
Sats it 
ay r 
. > 
ea 
7 yore 
ot at yee 
Ma tet <3 
oe ett 
7 Ce atete 
oe Mictees 
~ Saceses Geet tae 
x ote , rey 
Ps > riotety 
S45 eee eee 
SaSet< SARS 
ne DM One 8 ee “ 
Srey piviee 
es Dekel act 
Betnss- tae eacesaas 
Meteta retreat 
S404 14 at etse geet 
Roope ate ae atoe 
pees ct Mansa 
z 35h eS 3 54 7 
cet ay 
i pee la tatgte 
ee « Matacaee 
pee Poe te dot ad 
Batetes > 
Re ycosat Ses 
Cit ae 4, Demon neat nese 
Modes se Ses 
Mane as etprererer 
- ee oe > 
HeS« 
+ 
Eas 
be 


7% 






































Ae 










eet 





Tey 


“, 























vent 





































<eEe 

ws 

ine 
LAD 





‘7 






te 


+S 
¥. 4% 



















* 
ve 





< 
VY, 


*. 













OE Re as 





a) 
vy 
a 
. 
+ 
MAAS 














eo 
A 
ete 




















* 

















ee 
yee t.¢ 
7 


+e 

















* 
anete’ 





o 





ate 
tee 
x 
- 




















CAS 











< 
A 
pee 





7 























a 



























































Cv 


+ 
TeV y ee 
daa 














































¥. 
Wee 
VEVEVY 
Veee ey 
V¥,e . 


ree ~ 
© 











+. 2 
3 








ve 























oy 
~ 
% 
¥ 

me 

eV YW 

Seve y 

















ve ie v 
Vet yyy Se 












































x. 
sD 











> 
Shee 
SOCCV EEE TES 
PO VECO EO ETE 
CA 
Ke 
se A 








ee 
AS 





0% 








m 
bas 














\ 














y aA 
AD Ad 


- 

















ae ee 
eee 
See y eye. 


* 
+ 


x 





veYee 
VY Se. 
¥ 





x 





Sey 
ona 
Pewee ly 
o; 











LE LIST IIMS 








+ 

































> 


> 
ans 






vyeee 






































bite a4 4e4 oN 
* am, ates fate 
4545 Saad. cere 
cok Sk 4. beenes oases aeed 
ine S<c<Se, Eoeae ed oaee se ae 
: a<aSa"a ta tate 
“6 Metdtatc totes 
Mons Wedon eect pe 
eset e%. Matetesetete 
COPPER s iog > php Pare 
fields: Deesegereeass 
Ric sdsds: pimeseccec ec yey 
Occ Sas Sanese se asecd oes 
CaS cs ate 4ocas aes 
cic sece aca te see s4 
Riis 498s Dua tatatetesece 
ed (S45 ee sactyesendsese yes 
S< Wie td ie ie ies 
> * 
wpb 
¢ 
lett <* 






ee rs 
rw, 
+ 


very 









uve oy rv 


+ 
Aba aaa RAAD AD AR A 


“v 






























Ne 








ty 
» 
a 


aA 





‘i aa) 

















+ 
Set 











LAAN AAAS 






































































































































A 





























B: 


















































nanan 











Ad 




































Vey 


ARAMA 
(AAA 








ay 

, 

Tw 
Y, 


(ALA 























vues 
Tere 
CXR 



































































































































1 














wyevevy 
+e 


fo 


* 


¥. 










































































Crees 
“ 


Khas 

















A 
ye 








oss 





























~~ 























oy 
y, 
eee 











fy 
Ok AA AA AAD 
LEE US, 











“Ne 




















LAAs 
Vey ee 









































i 

x 

vive ey 

AA AA LA Dd 
aad 


Pes 
Seas 


¥. 























LAA A 
AAA 
y. 
" 
% 
aes 
é 


LAA SAAS 











¥ 
wie 

















re 


o 





¥. 
KAAS 





+ 
¥ 





a 
Saw e 










+ 








me 
¥ 
OR RERAL AG 


AJ 

















oe 
"ieee 


¥. 
¥ 

+. 
¥, 














A 


































Lewy 
ny 
exe 
v 
“i 





RAG 






























































hh ae ed 
Tv" 





















“a 
are 























[AAAs eed 

















AAD a ADA AS 


Aaa aA 
vI¥e 




















ie 


+ 
¥ 


(Pera 











orev 
A 


LA 




































LAA 

ees 

Cry, 

Cas 

CAA AAA AAS 
VIS. 





























- 
VV IL TEE SY ee Ye We 





al COE KS 
CORK 


ow 





















































Las 







































Cea 




















voy 
ee 
o 













































































FE See 





¥ 
e 








*, 
































ee 
+ 











Oo 

















CIV IVE ETOYS TES 
Ye, vee 





ALR BA A AA Ae ed 





cA A 




















7 





















Ahk heed 









































¥. 
“+ 


















































LAs 
¥ 






































+ 














<2 

KEK EA 

CARER AAAS 
¥ 


x. 
a 
Sv; 





es 


A 














yy vow yy yyy ey 



















v 


















































ve 
Aad 
ey 
Vevey 
KAA os 






















wey 























*, 
oy. 
CAA 
¥ 
¥ 



































A 




















o, 


+8 
Ss 

















nee 


KAS 


















































ae 


* 


v 





A 





























a 




















v, 
“Ge 











COTY. 


v, 














S 












CLA DAA 


oo 
fe 


, 








EA 














(LRAAABA ¥ 
KK ERAM AAAS 
oe wy 

CAA 
¥ ¥ 


6 
ex 





Aa 











+ 

















Vey, 


tty 


















AeA 


KA AAR ABS 
LAs 























LAA SA 


La AA 
CLAKAM ASN 


SA 
CK KS 
CLE AG 


ry, 





























AA 
ST, 











v. 


















































re 
o 











CLEA AAA 
¥ 








CK SRA aed 
CA KARAS 


v 
w 
CKRAAAS 
¥ 


7 



































































¥ 








‘<, 
rer 


CARE A A 


of, 


ov¥ere 


vee 






reat % 


eae? 


2 
7 









Ried 


149% 


















Ameen 
wi 


PAAESS, 









































¥. 

MAA 
a4 

cad 

















eS 






































, 


y 

















SARK AS 
. 


eA 
cha 



























Nee PETE TOES 








OFT e 












y 
























Cee 































































































LAAs 




























































































































































































































































LAAAd 


REA 
a 



































CEES 
y, 





Pie wy 5 4 tee 





3 













Vee, 


A 







¥ 















¥ 











¥ 





4 




















ced 


Test reset etvw ae © 


r 





¢ 
¥, 





op 








<4 





(iLAn 


Ke 


TIPE 
vary 


hi 





verry. 


7 















* 

x 
vy 
CASAS TESS 
ahhh Ae 
AAS AAA 
ve 

FIV 
EASELS 
TP Pe re 





VIVID. 


Ap 
7 
6 


es 


uA 


TPISIIP IS s 







¥. 





¥ 











Cir 


es 
es 























¢ 
y 
Ad 
v 
hafhe 
WIN 
Ch 


¥ 











vies 





a 


oy 


Cons 
% 












792 








bon 





% 





ee 




























































































Nie are, 


§ 999 


al A 


KNOX CGiLi - 


Delo) 


ea 








CAVEN LIBRARY. 


KNOX COLLEGE 
TORONTO | 





NEW EDITION 


OF THE 


BABYLONIAN TALMUD 


Original Tert Edited, Corrected, Formulated, and 
Translated into English 


BY 


MICHAEL L. RODKINSON 


First Edition Revised and Corrected 


BY 


THE REV. DR. IsAAC M, WISE 


President Hebrew Union College, Cincinnati, O. 


Volume I. 
TRACT SABBATH 


SECOND EDITION, RE-EDITED, REVISED AND ENLARGED 


NEW YORK 
NEW TALMUD PUBLISHING COMPANY 
1342 CLINTON AVENUE 


CAVEN LIBRARY. 
KNOX COLLEGE 
TORONTO 


EXPLANATORY REMARKS. 


In our translation we adopted these principles: 


1. Zenan of the original—We have learned ina Mishna; Zania—We have 
learned in a Boraitha; Jtemar—lIt was taught. 


2. Questions are indicated by the interrogation point, and are immediately 
followed by the answers, without being so marked. 


3. When in the original there occur two statements separated by the phrase, 
Lishna achrena or Waibayith Aema or [kha d’amri (literally, ‘‘otherwise interpreted”), 
we translate only the second. 


4. As the pages of the original are indicated in our new Hebrew edition, it is not 
deemed necessary to mark them in the English edition, this being only a translation 
from the latter. 


5. Words or passages enclosed in round parentheses ( ) denote the explanation 
rendered by Rashi to the foregoing sentence or word. Square parentheses [ ] contain 
commentaries by authorities of the last period of construction of the Gemara. 


399g 
1AToe 





CoPpyRiGHT, 1901, BY 
MICHAEL L, RODKINSON, 


TO 
EDWIN R. A. SELIGMAN, Px.D. 


PROFESSOR OF POLITICAL SCIENCE AT COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY 
IN RECOGNITION OF 
HIS WARM INTEREST AND VALUABLE SERVICES IN PROMOTING THE 
STUDY OF LITERATURE, AND HIS GREAT INSTRUMENTALITY IN ASSISTING 
YOUNG MEN AND WOMEN TO BROADEN THEIR MINDS, AND REACH A 
HIGHER SOCIAL PLANE, AND FOR HIS MANY WORKS FOR THE COMMUNAL 


WELFARE, ESPECIALLY THOSE IN BEHALF OF THE 


EDUCATIONAL ALLIANCE 


THIS VOLUME IS MOST RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED BY THE 


EDITOR AND TRANSLATOR 


MICHAEL L. RODKINSON. 


June 15, Igor. 
New York City. 


CONTENTS. 


PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION ‘ . A : . Vil 

EDITOR’S PREFACE . : . ; : : Z ; . ix 

BRIEF GENERAL INTRODUCTION TO THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD XV 

INTRODUCTION TO TRACT SABBATH : : : : bre eek 

SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS OF VOLUME I.—TRACT SABBATH SEX 
CHAPTER I. 

REGULATIONS CONCERNING TRANSFER ON SABBATH : 7 I 
CHAPTER :r: 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE SABBATH AND ’HANUKAH 
LIGHT ; ‘ ; ‘ ; i . ‘ P ee 


CHAPTER III. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING STOVES, HEARTHS, AND OVENS. 63 


CHAPTER IV. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE DEPOSITING OF VICTUALS ON 
THE SABBATH ., : ; : ‘ ; ; ‘ ne 83 


CHAPTER: V. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING GEAR WHICH MAy AND May Not 
BE WORN BY ANIMALS ON THE SABBATH . ‘ . gI 


CHAPTER Vi. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING WHAT GARMENTS (SERVING AS 
ORNAMENTS) WoMEN May Go Our WITH ON THE 
SABBATH . ; ° : ‘ : . . . - 107 


vi CONTENTS. 


CHAPTER VII. 


THE GENERAL RULE CONCERNING THE PRINCIPAL ACTS OF 
LABOR ON SABBATH A s ‘ ; 4 F 


CHAPTER VIII. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE PRESCRIBED QUANTITY OF 
VICTUALS AND BEVERAGES WHICH Must Nort BE CARRIED 
ABOUT ON THE SABBATH . ; : : : : ¢ 


CHAPTER IX. 


Rassi AQipa’s REGULATIONS ON DIFFERENT SUBJECTS F 


CHAPTER X. 


FURTHER REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE PRESCRIBED QUAN- 
TITY OF THINGS TO BE STORED - : ; ; ‘ 


PAGE 


127 


143 


154 


171 





PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION. 





THE translator of the Talmud, who has now reached the 
thirteenth volume of his task, covering twenty-one tracts of this 
great work, certainly cannot point with any great pride to the 
fact that this is the second edition of his translation which first 
appeared in 1896, for he believes that the opening and bringing 
to light of a book so long withheld from the gaze of the curious, 
and even the learned, should have attracted more attention and 
deserved greater consideration than it has received. However, 
he is glad to see that thousands of readers have at last taken 
advantage of the opportunity of looking into the “sealed book,” 
and to such an extent that second editions have become neces- 
sary, both of this volume and of the Tract Rosh Hashana of 
the fourth volume, which he has reédited and enlarged upon, add- 
ing many historical facts and legends, so that they now appear as 
practically new works. 

This is certainly an encouragement to him to continue his 
work, with the hope that in time it will gain the proper rec- 
ognition and proper attention which he thinks this great work 
of the sixth century should receive at the hands of all scholars 
and even laymen. 

In revising this volume the translator had in mind the many 
criticisms which have been passed upon his effort and which have 
appeared in various papers throughout different countries, but he 
gave his attention to those only which were not prompted by 
animosity and jealousy. He begs to call the attention of all 
critics to the dictum of the Talmud, “ Kal Hat’haloth Kashoth ” 
(all beginnings are difficult) ; for, bearing this in mind, they would 
no doubt have been more moderate. 


vii 


Vili PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION. 


The translator will be very grateful to critics who will call his 
attention to any mistakes made in the translation of the original 
text. However, he will positively ignore criticisms of the kind 
described above. 

The translator further hopes that this and the succeeding 
volumes will meet with the favor and approval of the public, 


which will be sufficient reward to repay him for his efforts. 
MLR. 


New YorRK, June, Igol. 








EDITOR’S PREFACE. 


[To the first edition.] 





THE Hebrew edition of Rosh Hashana contains an elaborate 
introduction in three chapters, the translation of which does not 
appear as yet. Its contents include many important rules which 
we have followed in the entire work, but we do not feel called 
upon at this time to engross the time of the English reader by 
reciting them. We, however, deem it a duty to say a few words, 
so that the reader may understand our position and the reason 
why we have undertaken a work which will probably be produc- 
tive of much adverse criticism in certain quarters. 

The fate of the Talmud has been the fate of the Jews. As 
soon as the Hebrew was born* he was surrounded by enemies. 
His whole history has been one of struggle against persecution 
and attack. Defamation and deformation have been his lot. So, 
too, has it been with the Talmud. At the beginning of its for- 
mative period, viz., the development of the Mishna, it was beset 
by such enemies as the Sadducees, the Boéthusians, and other 
sects, not to mention the Roman Government.t When its 
canon was fixed, the Karaites tried to destroy or belittle its influ- 
ence, and since that time it has been subjected to an experience 
of unvarying difficulty. Yet, with remarkable truth, the words 
of Isaiah [xliii. 2] may be applied to both: “ When thou passest 
through the waters, I will be with thee; and through the rivers, 
they shall not overflow thee; when thou walkest through the fire, 
thou shalt not be burned; neither shall the flame kindle upon 
thee.” There is, however, one point concerning which this simile 
is not true. The Jew has advanced; the Talmud has remained 
stationary. 

Since the time of Moses Mendelssohn the Jew has made vast 
strides forward. There is to-day no branch of human activity in 





* Vide Genesis, xliii. 32. 
¢ In our forthcoming ‘‘ History of the Talmud” the reader will find all details 
of the persecution, until the present time, in twenty chapters. 
ix 


x EDITOR’S PREFACE. 


which his influence is not felt. Interesting himself in the affairs 
of the world, he has been enabled to bring a degree of intelligence 
and industry to bear upon modern life that has challenged the 
admiration of the world. But with the Talmud it is not so. 
That vast encyclopedia of Jewish lore remains as it was. No 
improvement has been possible; no progress has been made with 
it. Issue after issue has appeared, but it has always been called 
the Talmud Babli, as chaotic as it was when its canon was origi- 
nally appointed.* Commentary upon commentary has appeared; 
every issue of the Talmud contains new glosses from promi- 
nent scholars, proposing textual changes, yet the text of the 
Talmud has not received that heroic treatment that will alone 
enable us to say that the Talmud has been improved. Few 
books have ever received more attention than this vast store- 
house of Jewish knowledge. Friends and enemies it has had. 
Attack after attack has been made upon it, and defence after 
defence made for it; yet whether its enemies or its defenders 
have done it more harm it would be hard to tell. Not, forsooth, 
that we do not willingly recognize that there have been many 
learned and earnest spirits who have labored faithfully in its be- 
half; but for the most part, if the Talmud could speak, it would 
say, “God save me from my friends!” For the friends have, 
generally, defended without due knowledge of that stupendous 
monument of rabbinical lore; and the enemies have usually 
attacked it by using single phrases or epigrams disconnected from 
their context, by which method anything could be proven. In 
both cases ignorance has been fatal. For, how many have read 
the whole Talmud through and are thus competent to judge of 
its merits? Is it right to attack or defend without sufficient 
information? Is it not a proof of ignorance and unfairness to 
find fault with that of which we are not able to give proper testi- 
mony ? 

Let us take the case of those persons in particular who attacked 
the Talmud and made it the object of their venomous vitupera- 
tion. Is it possible that they could have believed it a work capa- 
ble of teaching the monstrous doctrines so frequently attributed to 
it, when that work says, among other things, “ When one asks for 
food, no questions shall be asked as to who he is, but he must 
immediately be given either food or money"? Could a work be 
accused of frivolity and pettiness that defines wickedness to be 





* Vide Brief Introduction. 


EDITOR’S PREFACE. xi 


“the action of a rich man who, hearing that a poor man is about 
to buy a piece of property, secretly overbids him” ? (Qiddushin, 
59a.) Could there be a higher sense of true charity than that 
conveyed by the following incident? Mar Uqba used to support 
a poor man by sending him on the eve of each Day of Atonement 
four hundred zuz. When the rabbi’s son took the money on 
one occasion he heard the poor man’s wife say, “ Which wine 
shall I put on the table? Which perfume shall I sprinkle around 
the room?” The son, on hearing these remarks, returned with 
the money to his father and told him of what he had heard. 
Said Mar Ugqba: “ Was that poor man raised so daintily that he 
requires such luxuries? Go back to him and give him double 
the sum?” (Ketuboth, 7a.) This is not recorded by the Talmud 
as an exception; but it is the Talmudical estimate of charity. 
The Talmud is free from the narrowness and bigotry with which 
it is usually charged, and if phrases used out of their context, and 
in a sense the very reverse from that which their author intended, 
are quoted against it, we may be sure that those phrases never 
existed in the original Talmud, but are the later additions of its 
enemies and such as never studied it. When it is remembered 
that before the canon of the Talmud was finished, in the sixth 
century,* it had been growing for more than six hundred years, 
and that afterward it existed in fragmentary manuscripts for 
eight centuries until the first printed edition appeared ; that dur- 
ing the whole of that time it was beset by ignorant, unrelenting, 
and bitter foes; that marginal notes were easily added and in 
after years easily embodied in the text by unintelligent copyists 
and printers, such a theory as here advanced seems not at all im- 
probable. 

The attacks on the Talmud have not been made by the ene- 
‘mies of the Jews alone. Large numbers of Jews themselves 
repudiate it, denying that they are Talmud Jews, or that they 
have any sympathy with it. Yet there are only the few Karaites 
in Russia and Austria, and the still fewer Samaritans in Palestine, 
who are really not Talmud Jews. Radical and Reform, Conser- 
vative and Orthodox, not only find their exact counterparts in 
the Talmud, but also follow in many important particulars the 
practices instituted through the Talmud, e.g., New Year's Day, 
Pentecost (so far as its date and significance are concerned), the 
QADDISH, etc. The modern Jew is the product of the Talmud, 





* According to others, in the eighth century. See our ‘‘ History of the Talmud.” 


xii EDITOR’S PREFACE. 


which we shall find is a work of the greatest sympathies, the 
most liberal impulses, and the widest humanitarianism. Even 
the Jewish defenders have played into the enemy’s hands by 
their weak defences, of which such expressions as ‘‘ Remember 
the age in which it was written,” or “Christians are not meant by 
‘gentiles,’ but only the Romans, or the people of Asia Minor,” 
etc., may be taken as a type. 

Amid its bitter enemies and weak friends the Talmud has 
suffered a martyrdom. Its eventful history is too well known to 
require detailing here. We feel that every attack on it is an at- 
tack upon the Jew. We feel that defence by the mere citation 
of phrases is useless and at the best weak. To answer the attacks 
made upon it through ludicrous and garbled quotations were 
idle. There is only one defence that can be made in behalf of 
the Talmud. Let it plead its own cause in a modern language! 

What is this Talmud of which we have said so much? What 
is that work on which so many essays and sketches, articles and 
books, have been written? The best reply will be an answer in 
negative form. The Talmud is not a commentary on the Bible; 
nor should the vein of satire or humor that runs through it be 
taken for sober earnestness.* Nor is the Talmud a legal code, 
for it clearly states that one must not derive a law for practical 
application from any halakhic statement, nor even from a prece- 
dent, unless in either case it be expressly said that the law or 
statement is intended as a practical rule [Baba Bathra, 1306]. 
Further: R. Issi asked of R. Jo’hanan: “ What shall we do if you 
pronounce a law to be a Halakha?” to which R. Jo’hanan replied: 
“Do no act in accordance with it until you have heard from me, 
‘Go and practice.’”” Neither is the Talmud a compilation of 
fixed regulations, although the Shul’han Arukh would make it 
appearso. Yet, even when the Shul’han Arukh will be forgotten, 
the Talmud will receive the respect and honor of all who love 
liberty, both mental and religious. It lives and will live, because 
of its adaptability to the necessities of every age, and if any proof 
were needed to show that it is not dead, the attacks that are with 
remarkable frequency made on it in Germany might be given as 
the strongest evidence. In its day the Talmud received, not the 
decisions, but the debates of the leaders of the people. It was 
an independent critic, as it were, adapting itself to the spirit of 
the times; adding where necessary to the teachings of former 





* See our article, ‘‘ What is the Talmud?” in the prospectus. 





EDITOR'S PREFACE. xiii 


days, and abrogating also what had become valueless in its day. 
In other words, the Talmud was the embodiment of the spirit of 
the people, recording its words and thoughts, its hopes and aims, 
and its opinions on every branch of thought and action. Reli- 
gion and Ethics, Education, Law, History, Geography, Medicine, 
Mathematics, etc., were all discussed. It dealt with living issues 
in the liveliest manner, and, therefore, it is living, and in reading 
it we live over again the lives of its characters. 

Nothing could be more unfair, nothing more unfortunate than 
to adopt the prevailing false notions about this ancient encyclo- 
pedia. Do not imagine it is the bigoted, immoral, narrow work 
that its enemies have portrayed it to be. On the very contrary; 
in its statements it isas freeas the wind. It permits no shackles, 
no fetters to be placed upon it. It knows no authority but con- 
science and reason. It is the bitterest enemy of all superstition 
and all fanaticism. 

But why speak for it? Let it open its mouth and speak in 
its own defence! How can it be done? The Talmud must be 
translated into the modern tongues and urge its own plea. All 
that we have said for it would become apparent, if it were only 
read. Translation! that is the sole secret of defence! In trans- 
lating it, however, we find our path bristling with difficulties. To 
reproduce it as it is in the original is in our judgment an impos- 
sible task. Men like Pinner and Rawicz have tried to do so with 
single tracts, and have only succeeded in, at the best, giving 
translations to the world which are not only not correct but also 
not readable. If. it were translated from the original text one 
would not see the forest through the trees. For, as we have said 
above, throughout the ages there have been added to the text 
marginal notes, explanatory words, and whole phrases and sen- 
tences inserted in malice or ignorance, by its enemies and its 
friends.* As it stands in the original it is, therefore, a tangled 
mass defying reproduction in a modern tongue. It has conse- 
quently occurred to us that, in order to enable the Talmud to 
open its mouth, the text must be carefully edited. A modern 
book, constructed on a supposed scientific plan, we cannot make 
of it, for that would not be the Talmud; but a readable, intel- 
ligible work, it can be made. We have, therefore, carefully punc- 
tuated the Hebrew text with modern punctuation marks, and 
have reédited it by omitting all such irrelevant matter as inter- 





* In others of our works we have named some of these interpolators. 


XIV EDITOR’S PREFACE. 


rupted the clear and orderly arrangement of the various argu- 
ments. We have also omitted repetitions; for frequently the 
same thing is found repeated in many tracts; while in this trans- 
lation each statement is to be found only once, and in the proper 
place for it. In this way there disappear those unnecessary de- 
bates within debates, which only serve to confuse and never to 
enlighten on the question debated. Thus consecutiveness has 
been gained, but never at the expense of the Talmud, for in no 
case have we omitted one single statement that was necessary or 
of any importance. In other words, we have merely removed’ 
from the text those accretions that were added from outside’ 
sources, which have proven so fruitful a source of misunderstand- 
ing and misrepresentation. 

We continue our labors in the full and certain hope that “he 
who comes to purify receives divine help,” and that in our task 
of removing the additions made by the enemies of the Talmud: 
we shall be purifying it from the most fruitful source of the at- 
tacks made on it, and thereunto we hope for the help of Heaven. 
As we have already said, we feel that this work will not be received 
everywhere with equal favor. We could not expect that it would. 
Jewish works of importance have most usually been given amid 
“lightning and thunder,” and this is not likely to prove an excep- 
tion. 

We are always ready to accept criticism, so long as it is objec- 
tive, and we shall gladly avail ourselves of suggestions given to 
us, but we shall continue to disregard all personal criticism directed 
not against our work but against its author. This may serve as 
a reply to a so-called review that appeared in one of our Western 
weeklies. 

At the same time we deem it our duty to render to Dr. Isaac’ 
M. Wise, the venerable President of the Hebrew Union College 
of Cincinnati, our heartfelt thanks for the several evenings spent 
in revising this volume, and for many courtesies extended to us’ 
in general. 

THE EDITOR. 

CINCINNATI, May, 1896. 


BRIEF GENERAL INTRODUCTION 


TO THE 


BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 





ON this, the appearance of our latest literary undertaking, we 
deem a few explanatory remarks necessary. The brief outline of 
the origin of the Talmud that follows may suggest the thought 
that we have departed from the usual manner of dealing with the 
questions here discussed, the more so since we have, for the sake 
of brevity, refrained from citing the authorities on which our 
statements are based. We wish, therefore, to declare here that 
we do not venture to make a single statement without the sup- 
port of authorities well known in Hebrew literature. Our method 
is to select such views as seem to us the best authenticated 
in the historical progress of Judaism. As we have taken our 
choice from the numerous works on our subject, the student is. 
entitled to adopt or to reject the views that we represent. 

Most of the Mishnayoth date from a very early period, and 
originated with the students of the Jewish academies which ex- 
isted since the days of Jehoshaphat, King of Judah [II Chron. 
Xvii. Q]. 

The rabbinical students of ancient times noted the essence of 
the academical teachings in brief form, and, as a rule, in the 
idiom in which it was spoken to them, so that they could after- 
ward easily commit it to memory. They have sometimes, how-. 
ever, added comments and extensive explanations in the form of 
notes, so that the mass of their learning, embraced in course of 
time, according to some authorities, as many as six hundred 
divisions. 

The source of the Mishnayoth was the customs and regula- 

XV 


xvi BRIEF GENERAL INTRODUCTION, 


tions practised by the authorities in their administration of relig- 
ious and civil affairs: such as the Sabbath, Prayers, Cleanliness 
(considered actually Godliness), Permitted and Forbidden Foods, 
and controversies arising concerning Slavery. Indebtedness and 
corporal punishment are subjects of academical discussion, con- 
ducted with the aim of perfecting them into national statutes 
enforcible in all Jewish communites alike. 

In course of time, however, when those Mishnayoth were 
noted down from earlier existing copies, many additions were 
made. Finally Rabbi Jehudah the Prince, generally called Rabbi, 
concluded to collect all the Mishnayoth in his college for proper 
arrangement. From these he selected six divisions, called ac- 
cording to the subject they deal with, viz.: Seeds, Feasts, Women, 
Damages, Sacrifices, and Purifications, and he proclaimed them 
holy for all Israel. Of the Mishnayoth so treated by Rabbi some 
were left entirely intact, and were reproduced in their original 
form. To others he parenthetically added brief comments of 
his own, and there are still others that he changed in form com- 
pletely, because already in his day old customs had changed and 
taken new forms. 

Such of them as he desired to make final and indisputable 
national laws he incorporated into the Mishna without mention- 
ing the names of their authors. Where, however, he could for- 
mulate no definite decision himself, or where they were well known 
to the public, he gave full information of their authors as well as 
the names of those opposed to their conclusions, without any de- 
cisiononhis part. In still others he mentioned no names, but con- 
tented himself with saying “ A’herim,” z.¢., “ Anonymous teachers 
say,” not wishing to specify their authority for certain reasons. 

Rabbi did not seek the compliance and agreement of all his 
contemporaries in his arrangement of the Mishna, and many 
differed from his conclusions and even arranged Mishnayoth in 
accordance with their own views. Being, however, a man of 
great prominence, influence, and wealth, Rabbi succeeded in 
quelling opposition and in making his conclusions as acceptable 
as the Mosaic law itself; and his great pupils, seeing that his in- 





BRIEF GENERAL INTRODUCTION. XVii 


tentions were only to prevent dissensions and his only aim the 
public weal, supported him nobly, until his teachings were ac- 
cepted as the law of the nation. 

Many Mishnayoth were rejected and destroyed by Rabbi, 
but, not being in possession of all those he wished to destroy, he 
went in search of them to colleges outside of his jurisdiction. 
There, however, he met with great opposition. Some of the 
Mishnayoth were hidden beyond his reach, others were secretly 
preserved and arranged within the very limits of his domain and 
promptly brought to light after his death. But Rabbi’s pupils 
did not dignify them with the name MISHNA, implying “next to 
Mosaic law,’’* but called them TOSEPHTOTH, meaning “addi- 
tions of a later period,” or merely addttional, not principal, mat- 
ter. Some of them were also named BORAITHOTH (outsiders), 
z.e., secondary, not academical matter. They spread, however, 
very rapidly after Rabbi’s death, and to such an extent.as to 
threaten the Mishnayoth of Rabbi with entire extinction. Such 
would actually have been the result, had not the pupils of Rabbi. 
organized again colleges whose aim was to perpetuate the Mish- 
nayoth of Rabbi, which they also accomplished. Colleges of 
that character were those of Rabh and Samuel in Babylon and 
Rabbi Janai and Rabbi Jo’hanan in Palestine. These colleges 
made strenuous efforts to explain and harmonize the Mishnayoth 
of Rabbi with the teachings of the Boraithoth, generally regarded 
as those of Rabbi Hyya and Rabbi Oshia, who were greatly ad- 
mired by the public. At times the Mishna of Rabbi was abbre- 
viated and replenished with the text of the Boraitha, or explained 
with an opposing opinion, so as to harmonize it with the latter or 
suit the new conditions and consequent changes of the custom. 
that originally caused the conclusion of the Mishna. Where, 
however, they found no other way to suit their purpose, they in- 
serted a new Mishna of their own composition into the text of 
Rabbi.t 





* See Mielziner’s ‘‘ Introduction to the Talmud,” page 6. 
¢ This was done by Rabh and R., Jo’hanan, the heads of the colleges in Babylon 
and Palestine; and in many passages of the Talmud the latter exclaims: ‘‘ This 


XViii BRIEF GENERAL INTRODUCTION. 


The teachers mentioned in the Mishna of Rabbi or in the: 
Boraithoth and Tosephta were called Tanaim (stmgular Tana) 
signifying Instructors, Professors. The teachings of the colleges, 
covering a period of some centuries, which also found adherents 
and became the traditional law, were called GEMARA, signify- 
ing “conclusion.” The intention was to harmonize Mishna and 
Boraitha, and, in most cases, to arrive at a final decision as to 
the proper interpretation of the theory of the law (as Rabbi 
Jo’hanan prohibited compliance with the Halakha unless it is 
mandatory). These Gemara teachers were called AMORAIM (in- 
terpreters), z.¢., they interpreted to the public the difficult pas- 
sages in the Mishna. Being classified as interpreters only, they 
had no authority to deviate from the spirit of the Mishna unless 
supported by another Tana opposing the Mishna, in which case 
they could follow the opinion of the Tana with whom they 
agreed. Rabhina and R. Ashi, who lived at the end of the fifth 
century (third century of Amoraim), began to arrange the Ge- 
mara, but without success, and commenced a second time to ar- 
range it. Unfortunately they died before accomplishing their task, 
and the Gemara had to undergo the chances of transmission from 
hand to hand until the appearance upon the scene of Rabana 
Jose, president of the last Saburaic College in Pumbeditha, who 
foresaw that his college was destined to be the last, owing to the 
growing persecution of the Jews from the days of “Firuz.” He 
also feared that the Amoraic manuscripts would be lost in the 
coming dark days or materially altered, so he summoned all his 
contemporary associates and hastily closed up the Talmud, pro- 
hibiting any further additions. This enforced haste caused not 
only an improper arrangement and many numerous repetitions 
and additions, but also led to the “talmudizing”’ of articles 
directly traceable to bitter and relentless opponents of the Tal- 
mud. The time (Rabana Jose conducted his college only seven- 
teen years) being too short for a proper and critical review of 





Mishna was taught in the time of Rabbi!” which means that Rabbi himself was not 
aware of it. See Weiss’ ‘‘ Traditions of the Oral Law,” under the head ‘‘ Mishna 
and Rabbi.” 


BRIEF GENERAL INTRODUCTION. xix 


each and every subject, many theories were surreptitiously added 
by its enemies, with the purpose of making it detestable to its 
adherents. Of such character is the expression, “That of R. 
Ashi is a fabrication,” which is repeated numerous times through- 
out the Talmud and which could by no means have originated 
with the Amoraim, who as a rule were very guarded in their ex- 
pressions and would never have dreamed of applying it or simi- 
lar expressions to such Talmudical authorities as R. Ashi and 
Mar, his son, much less to the Patriarchs or the Prophets. This 
closing up of the Talmud did not, however, prevent the importa- 
tion of foreign matter into it, and many such have crept in 
through the agency of the “ Rabanan Saburai’’ and the Gaonim 
of every later generation. | 

The chief aim of the authors of the Gemara being to perpetu- 
ate the Mishna as the sole source of the Jewish religious and civil 
code after the Mosaic laws themselves, they not only directed all 
their energy to the discussion and perfecting of its deductions, 
but treated its very words and letters as inspired and as holy as 
the Bible itself, forming at times conclusions from a superfluous 
word or letter. Oftentimes, when they found the Mishna differ- 
ing with an established custom in their days, they resorted to 
subtle inquiry and minute discussion, until they succeeded in 
establishing harmony between the differing points. All these 
efforts were directed to refute and disprove the assertions of the 
different sects who opposed the oral law and who were inclined 
to adhere to the written law solely. Therefore the Rabbis of the 
Gemara said “ MINALAN ?”’ (Wherefrom its source ?) or “ MINOH 
HANNE MILI?” (which means “ Whence is all this deduced ?”’) in 
the treatment of a subject not plainly specified in the Bible; and 
also the exclamatory remark “ PESHITA!”’ (It is self-evident!) as 
regards subjects plainly enumerated in the Scriptures which do 
not admit of any other interpretation. Of the same origin is the 
question “ LEMAI HILKHETHA?” (For what purpose was this 
Halakha stated?) with reference to an obsolete custom. So much 
for the general history of the Talmud. 








. 
. et 
+ 
‘ + 
- A * 
1 

















INTRODUCTION TO TRACT SABBATH. 





WITH this tract we commence the translation of the section 
of the Talmud called Moed (Festivals), containing the following 
tracts: Sabbath, Erubhin, Rosh Hashana, Yuma, Shekalim, Suk- 
kah, Megillah, Taanith, Pesachim, Betzah, Hagigah, and Moed 
Katan. All these tracts are entirely devoted to precepts pertain- 
ing to the observance of the festivals and Sabbath, such as the 
performance of the different ritual ceremonies on feast-days, the 
manner of sanctifying the Sabbath, and the ordinances relating 
to mourning for the dead both on Sabbath and week-days. 

The commandments on which these precepts are founded, or 
from which they are derived, are contained in various portions 
of the Pentateuch. The fourth commandment of the Decalogue 
enacts (Exod. xx. 8-11 and Deut. v. 12-15): “The seventh 
day shall ye keep holy.”” In various other parts of the Pentateuch 
the due observance of the Sabbath is repeatedly ordained; in 
some instances merely mentioning the day as one to be kept 
inviolate and holy; and in others employing greater emphasis, 
referring to the history of creation, and establishing the obser- 
vance as a sign of the covenant between the Lord and Israel. 
Such texts are Exod. xiii, 125 XVi, 15: XXNi. 13-17 5 xxxiv, 21; 
“xxv. I-3; Lev. xix. 29; xxiii. 32; Num. xv..9, etc. While the 
general principle is thus frequently inculcated, its special applica- 
tion, however, and specific enactments as to what constitutes a 
violation of the Sabbath, are nowhere fully carried out in the 
Pentateuch, and thus but few texts of the Scriptures serve as a 
direct basis for the minute and numerous enactments of the rab- 
binical law. 

The Mishna enumerates thirty-nine “Abhoth” or principal acts 

XX1 


XXii INTRODUCTION TO TRACT SABBATH. 


of labor, the performance of any one of which constitutes a violation 
of the Sabbath. Every other kind of work becomes illegal only 
if it can be classified under one or any of these principal acts of 
labor. Thus, for instance, under the principal act of ploughing, 
every analogous kind of work, such as digging, delving, weeding, 
dunging, etc., must be classified. In addition to these thirty-nine 
principal acts and their accessories and derivatives, there are other 
acts which are especially prohibited by the rabbinical law as tend- 
ing to violate the Sabbath rest (Shbhuth). For the violation itself 
various degrees of culpability are established, and various degrees 
of punishment awarded. All these subjects relating to the due 
observance of the Sabbath, and pointing out its violation in every 
possible way, form the contents of the treatise Sabbath. 

In order properly to understand the Mishna, and to avoid 
tedious repetitions, it is necessary to commence with the explana- 
tion of certain general principles and technical expressions pre- 
dominating in the text. 

Wherever throughout the Mishna the expression guilty, cul- 
pable (Hayabh), or free (Patur) is used, the meaning of the former 
(guilty) is that the transgressor acting unintentionally must bring 
the sin-offering prescribed in the law; of the second expression 
(free), that the accused is absolved from punishment. 

If through the performance of an unprohibited act some other 
(prohibited) occupation is inadvertently entered upon, it consti- 
tutes no offence, providing the latter is not done intentionally nor 
the lawful occupation entered upon with the covert purpose of 
making it serve as a subterfuge to do that which is prohibited. 

In the degrees of violation the nature of the occupation must 
be considered, as various kinds of labor may be required to per- 
form and complete one act, and thus the offender may become 
amenable to several penalties. On the other hand, the rule is laid 
down that such occupations as only destroy, but do not serve an 
end in view, do not involve culpability (in the rigorous sense 
of the word); nor yet does work which is but imperfectly or 
incompletely performed involve culpability. 

The prohibition to carry or convey any object from one place 


INTRODUCTION TO TRACT SABBATH. XXlii 


to another, which in Chap. I., § 1, of this treatise is called “ Yetziath 
(Ha) Shabbath ” (which-means transfer on the Sabbath) and forms 
the thirty-ninth of the principal acts of labor, requires particular 
attention and explanation from the complexity of cases to which 
it gives rise. All space was by the Tanaim divided into four dis- 
tinct kinds of premises, explained in the Gemara of this chapter. 
When in the text of the Mishna the question is about carrying 
and conveying from one place to another, it does not apply to the 
“free place,” as that is subject to no jurisdiction. Moreover, the 
open air above private property has no legal limitation, whereas 
that over public property or unclaimed ground (carmelith) only 
belongs thereto to the height of ten spans (see explanation of the 
Gemara). The carrying or conveying from one kind of premises 
to another does not constitute a complete or perfect act, unless 
the same person who takes a thing from the place it occupies 
deposits it in another place. 

The tracts Sabbath and Erubhin will contain the laws for the 
observance of rest on Sabbath, and these laws can be divided into 
two separate parts. Firstly, the part prohibiting labor on the 

Sabbath day, at the same time defining what is to be termed labor 
and what does not constitute an act of labor; and secondly, the 
part ordaining how the day is to be sanctified and distinguished 
from a week-day in the manner of eating, drinking, dress, light- 
ing of candles in honor of the Sabbath, and incidentally the 
lighting of candles in honor of the festival of "Hanukah (the Mac- 
cabees). 

It has been proven that the seventh day kept holy by the Jews 
was also in ancient times the general day of rest among other 
nations,* and was usually spent by the people of those days in 
much the same way as it is spent now, wherever local laws do not 
restrict buying and selling, namely: In the forenoon prayers were 
recited and the necessities of life for the day were bought, while 





* In a table compiled by Rev. A. H. Lewis, Alfred Centre, N. Y., 1884, in his 
work entitled ‘‘ Biblical Teachings, concerning the Sabbath and the Sunday,” it is 
shown that among nearly all nations the Sunday is the first and the Sabbath the 
seventh day of the week. 


xxiv INTRODUCTION TO TRACT SABBATH, 


the afternoon was devoted to pleasure-seeking, merrymaking, vis- 
iting, and so forth. The Jews living prior to the time of Ezra 
and Nehemiah, and even during the latter’s régime, were wont to 
spend the Sabbath in the same manner as their pagan neighbors. 
It was this fact that caused the sages of Nehemiah’s time to fear 
that should the Jews, who were always in the minority as com- 
pared with other nations, continue this method of keeping the 
Sabbath and join in the merrymaking and pleasures of their neigh- 
bors, mingling freely with their sons and daughters, assimilation 
was almost inevitable, especially as the Jewish race was scattered 
over all the known world and was nowhere in very large numbers. 

The sages then devised means to keep the Jew from mingling 
with the Gentile and from participating in the pleasures and 
carousals of his neighbors. This can be seen from Nehemiah, xiii. 
1-26: “In those days saw I in Judah some treading wine-presses 
on the Sabbath,” etc. “In those days also saw I Jews that had 
married wives of Ashdod, of Ammon, and of Moab,” etc. “Ye 
shall not give your daughters unto their sons nor take their daugh- 
ters unto your sons, or for yourselves.” Thus we see that Nehe- 
miah began by prohibiting traffic and the carrying of burdens on 
the Sabbath [ibid. xiii. 19] and ended by prohibiting intermar- 
riage with foreign women. About this time also another prophet, 
the second Isaiah—who, though not possessing the temporal 
power of Nehemiah, was gifted with that persuasive eloquence 
that appealed to the heart—preached against indulging in pleas- 
ures on the Sabbath day. He says [Isaiah, lviii. 13-14]: “If thou 
turn away thy foot from the Sabbath” (meaning if thou keep 
away from drinking-places, dancing-houses, etc., on the Sabbath 
and follow not the custom of other nations), “and call the Sab- 
bath a delight’ (meaning the vest on the Sabbath shall constitute 
thy pleasure), “the holy of the Lord, honorable; and shalt honor 
him, not doing thine own ways, nor finding thine own pleasure, 
nor speaking thine own words. Then shalt thou delight thy- 
self in the Lord; and I will cause thee to ride the high places of 
the earth, and feed thee with the heritage of Jacob thy father; for 
the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it.” (The inference is very 


INTRODUCTION TO TRACT SABBATH. XXV 


plain. The prophet wishes to impress the Jew with the fact that 
the Lord will reward those with the heritage of Jacob who have 
kept away from mingling with the pleasures of other nations. 
Read ibid. lvii., especially verses 10, 11, and 12.) 

After the establishment of a permanent government among 
the Jews, however, it was found that the exhortations of the pro- 
phets after the manner of Isaiah were of no avail; the people still 
continued seeking pleasures on the Sabbath, after the manner of 
other nations, and were still wont to enjoy the pastimes of their 
neighbors. The enforcement of the prohibition of carrying bur- 
dens was then decided upon to act as a check upon the people 
by defining minutely the meaning of burdens, and the prohibition 
was interpreted to include not only heavy burdens, but all port- 
able articles, such as money, trinkets, eatables, etc., while only 
necessary articles of clothing and apparel were permitted to be 
worn. To such an extent was the matter carried that even the 
wearing of rings, with the exception of such as had the name of 
the wearer engraved upon them, was not permitted. In fact, 
everything that could be converted into money was included in 
the definition of burdens. Beggars were not permitted to solicit 
alms on the Sabbath, contrary to the customs of other nations, so 
as not to afford any onean excuse for carrying money on that day. 

The enforcement of such a law, however, was practically im- 
possible in the case of people who remained in their houses, and 
certain modifications were made. These modifications were as 
follows: The laws were made to apply only on public grounds 
but were not valid on private grounds, so that in a private house 
a person was permitted to carry whatever was necessary. Private 
grounds were also established by the institution of Erubhin, ze., 
where a street or a public place was inhabited by Jews alone a 
small amount of meal was collected from each household; from 
the meal a cake was made and hung conspicuously in that local- 
ity. The point where the street inhabited by Jews alone com- 
menced and the point where it ended were joined by a piece of 
twine, and thus definitely marked. Thus public grounds were 
turned into private grounds, from the fact that each household 


XXxVi INTRODUCTION TO TRACT SABBATH. 


contributing a share of meal made them all in a manner copart- 
ners in one object. The walking of more than two thousand ells 
outside of the city limits was also prohibited. Within the city 
limits, be the city ever so large, walking was permitted. 

The possibility of confinement in the house on the Sabbath 
becoming conducive to the performance of labor was offset by 
the establishment of a law prohibiting all the different modes of 
labor used in the construction of the tabernacle, besides all man- 
ner of agricultural labor. This again brought about the detailing 
of all the different modes of labor employed in the construction 
of the tabernacle and in agriculture, all of which is discussed in 
these treatises of Sabbath and Erubhin. 

Naturally the institution of laws carries with it provisions for 
the penalties attending their infraction, and these penalties were 
divided into three classes: . 

First, the penalties for unintentional infractions. 

Secondly, for intentional infractions. 

Thirdly, for intentional violations where the violator had been 
previously forewarned of the penalty by two witnesses. 

The penalty for the first class of infractions was simply the 
sacrificing of a sin-offering, which, however, involved a great 
many hardships, as the culprit had to bring the sin-offering to the 
temple in Jerusalem in person, and was frequently compelled to 
travel quite a distance in order to do so, besides sustaining the 
loss of the value of the offering. 

For the second class, if two witnesses testified before the tri- 
bunal that the culprit had labored on the Sabbath, and the culprit 
admitted that he had done so intentionally, no penalty was in- 
flicted by the tribunal, but the person was told that he would be 
punished by the heavenly power with the curse of Karath (short- 
ening his allotted time of existence on earth). No penalty was 
inflicted, for the reason that, the culprit having made himself 
liable to severe punishment from superhuman sources, it served 
as an excuse to absolve him from human punishment.* 





* Because it isa rule of rabbinical law that, of two punishments incurred by one 


act, the severer one is meted out Qam léh bid’rabba minéh. 


INTRODUCTION TO TRACT SABBATH. XXVii 


_ For the third class, however, when the culprit openly defied 
the existing authority and in spite of forewarnings persisted in 
violating the law, he was considered a traitor to the government, 
to be sentenced to death by stoning, as was the wood-gatherer 
[Numbers, xv. 32]. 

It is upon these laws that the discussions in the treatises Sab- 
bath and Erubhin are based, and in addition the reader will find 
many ethical laws, legends, and the enumeration of such enjoy- 
ments as are permitted on the Sabbath day and the festivals. 

In addition to the above we would make the following cita- 
tions from the text of the Talmud, as a necessary feature of the 
introduction : 

I. We find in the Tract Sabbath, 614 and 964, the story of 
the mysterious scroll which Rabh claimed to have found in the 
house of his uncle, R. Hyya. This scroll referred to the principal 
acts of labor prohibited on the Sabbath, which were forty less 
one. Rabh discovered in this scroll the statement of R. Issi b. 
Jehudah to the effect that although thirty-nine principal acts of 
labor are enumerated, only one of them makes a man actually 
culpable. The Gemara then amends this statement and declares 
that it should read: “One of the thirty-nine does not involve 
culpability,” but does not mention which one it is. Consequently 
it remains doubtful which act it is that does not involve culpa- 
bility, and where a doubt exists as to whether an act is prohibited 
or not no punishment can be inflicted for its commission. From 
this, two things may be inferred: First, that these acts of labor 
were prohibited for political reasons, because the mystery was 
extant, and we find the term mystery applied to political cases 
only; and second, that the Gemara declares in the same passage 
that the carrying of an object from public ground into private 
ground is not one of the doubtful acts and a penalty is prescribed 
in the event of its being committed. Hence the object was to 
prevent the assimilation explained above. 

II. We find in Yebamoth, 90d: “R. Eliezer b. Jacob said: 
‘T have heard that a man was found riding a horse on Sabbath in 
the time of the Greeks, and being brought before the tribunal for 


XXVIii INTRODUCTION TO TRACT SABBATH. 


the crime was stoned to death.” This man was punished, not be- 
cause his crime merited the penalty, but because the times made 
it necessary.” The inference is therefore clearly established that 
the man was punished for political reasons, and that the violation 
of the Sabbath laws did not involve capital punishment. 

III. In Yoma, 854, it is written: “R. Jonathan b. Joseph 
said, ‘ The Sabbath is holy unto you,’” implying that the Sabbath 
is handed over to you and not you to the Sabbath.* 

IV. R. Johanan states elsewhere that in Palestine, where the 
Jews were together, no public ground existed. 

MICHAEL L. RODKINSON. 

CINCINNATI, March, 1896. 





* This is taken from Mechilta, an authority older than the Talmud, and stands in 
no connection with the Halakha. Furthermore, the mystic scrolls may in some in- 
stances have had reference to political necessities of the day, but by no means in all 
cases.— The Reviser. 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


VOLUME |.—TRACT SABBATH. 





SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


SEVERAL requests have been received by the translator that an index 
should be made to the volumes of the Talmud, as is customary with all 
modern works. It would be an utter impossibility to give a complete index 
of everything contained in the Talmud. Were it like other scientific works, 
which treat each subject separately, this could easily be done; but with 
the Talmud it is different. On one page many different subjects may be 
discussed, and again a single subject may occupy several pages. The 
Talmud, therefore, has never had an index, not even the portions which 
have been translated. 

After careful examination of the volumes, page by page, it has been de- 
cided to make a synopsis, z.e., to give briefly the heads of the discussions 
and conversations upon each Mishna, indicating the page where the 
Mishna is to be found, and the Gemara of each one, which serves as a 
commentary. By this the reader should be able to refer to what he desires 
to know. 

A synopsis is therefore given of every Mishna which discusses a single 
subject, with its accompanying Gemara; but when several short Mishnas 
cover the same subject, a single synopsis is given of the whole, including 
the Gemara of each one; and where a chapter is short and has but one 
subject, a synopsis of the whole chapter is made, without dividing it into 
Mishnas. 

This is the best that can be done, and it is hoped that readers will find 
it satisfactory. 


CHAPTER I. 


MISHNA J, Regulations concerning prohibited and permitted acts of 
transfer over the dividing line of adjoining premises and the area of such 
premises ; the classification of premises ; in which premises transfer is per- 
mitted ; laws of traisfer of labor, when committed by the joint efforts of two 
persons ; transfer from and to doorsteps, . : ‘ ° I-13 

MIsHNA //7, Whether work may be souimedeed at the epeciaei of the 
time for afternoon prayer; what kind of work is referred to; how a man 
should pray ; what he must wear; when he may eat his midday meal ; the 

XX1X 


x<x SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


informing of the bestowal of gifts; Sabbath as a valuable gift of God 
and its origin; various legends of Rabha bar Ma’hassia in the name of 
Rabh, : ° ; ° ° 13-I9 

MISHNA J///, Tailors Ate omer teats are not pounced to go out 
with their tools on Friday near eventide. Treats also on whether one may 
read by lamplight on the Sabbath; the laws of visiting the sick; what 
prayers may be offered for the sick, : : : 19-22 

MIsHNAS JV. TO VJ, How the eighteen eipous otdinaness were in- 
stituted in the attic of Hananya ben Hyzkiyah ben Gorion, and by whom the 
Roll of Fasts was written. Which acts of labor may be commenced on 
Friday eve ; concerning labor which is accomplished without assistance of 
man on Sabbath; laws concerning labor which is accomplished without 
assistance of man on Sabbath; laws concerning work given to Gentiles, 
Narrative of R. Simeon ben Gamaliel concerning how his father’s house 
dealt with Gentile clothes-washers. On transmission of letters and journey- 
ing on ships on the Sabbath. Regulations pertaining to the roasting of 
meats and baking of bread before the Sabbath ; the sacrifices at the Temple 
on the Passover. Appendix to p. 8, : : ‘ : ; . 22-30 


CHAPTER I. 


MISHNAS /. AND //, Permissible and non-permissible oils and wicks for 
lamps on the Sabbath and "Hanukah (feast of Maccabbees) ; the law of the 
"Hanukah lights; "Hanukah and the miracle; the duration of ’Hanukah ; 
benedictions to be said on that festival ; the reward of those who keep the 
Sabbath-light commandment ; the reward of those who esteem scholarship. 
The second Mishna treats on: What balsams may and may not be used 
both for light and for the person on the Sabbath; a narrative of a woman 
who hated her daughter-in-law ; who may be called a rich man, . 31-42 

MIsHNAS ///7. TO V. What wicks made from parts of trees may be 
used ; whether broken vessels may be used for fuel on a biblical feast day; 
what may be done with the residue of oil left in a lamp; practical laws of 
egg-shells and whether chairs may be dragged on the floor on Sabbath. 
The different opinions of R. Eliezer and R. Aqiba concerning the defile- 
ment of a piece of cloth, and if it is allowed to make a wick of it. What 
happened with R. Jehudah in the Hall of Beth Nitza and with Abhin of 
Ziphoris, who committed certain acts which were not allowed, in the 
presence of the sages, . : 42-48 

MIsHNA VJ, Whetheralieht may us evancuishedo on Sabbath either for 
fear of accident or to afford rest for the sick ; the question asked R. Tan’hum 
of Nav and his replying sermon ; the soul being called the “ Light of God” ; 
the intended concealment of the Book of Proverbs and Ecclesiastes ; the 
Shekhina (divine presence) not resting with a man except through his joy of 
having performed a good deed ; Rabha’s custom when commencing his lec- 
tures to his disciples. R. Gamaliel’s sermon and answers to the disciple who 
derided him. The story of the three proselytes rejected by Shamai and 
accepted by Hillel. ‘What is hateful to thee, do not unto thy neighbor ; 
that is the law. All else is but a commentary.” The six sections of the 
Mishna are inferred froma biblical passage. The first thing asked of a man 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. XXXi 


when standing before the divine judgment is, ‘‘Hast thou traded in good 
faith?” The ‘Fear of the Lord” is the chief she The wicked fear 
death, although mentioning it every day, : ‘ ‘ 48-53 

Misunas V//. AND V///, The sins of women are passed upon when 
confined in childbirth, the sins of men while in danger. A good deed is 
committed through the agency of a meritorious person and a bad deed 
through the agency of the wicked ; all who are about to die must repent of 
their sins ; the defenders of man before divine judgment are repentance and 
good deeds. A thousandth part of one defender saves a man from the 
danger threatened him by a thousand accusers. The penalties imposed 
upon man for hating without cause; for robbery ; for perverting or pro- 
crastinating justice ; for destroying the law ; for murder ; for adultery ; for 
idolatry ; for using obscene language. The story of R. Simeon ben Johai, 
who remained in a cave for twelve years. The causes leading up to his 
concealment in the cave ; his adventures after leaving the cave. The three 
things to be said by a man in his house on Friday eve; how they are to be 
said ; when twilight takes, place ; how many signals of the horn were blown 
to remind the people of the advent of the Sabbath, Is there a difference 
between a shophar and a fife ?, P . ‘ ° r ‘ . 53-62 


CHAPTER If, 


Misunas JZ. AND JZ. In which hearths or ovens victuals may be depos- 
ited on the Sabbath. The opinions of the school of Hillel and the school of 
Shamai concerning the same; the different opinions upon the teaching of 
the two schools. Victuals having once been taken out of an oven, would it 
be allowed to replace them? The law concerning a pot of victuals which 
had been forgotten and was thus cooked on the Sabbath. Usages of R. Jose 
on his way to Zipporah, and of R. Jehudah Hanassi when travelling. A 
narrative of R. Ishai while in the presence of R. Hyya the Great. The differ- 
ence in law between an oven and a hearth; also, difference arising from 
an oven or a hearth being heated with straw or with wood, etc, . 63-67 

MisHunas ///. TO V/7. Customs of the people of Tiberias relative to the 
heating of a pitcher of cold water. Is it allowed to place a pitcher of cold 
water into one filled with hot water in order to heat the water; or, vice 
versa, in order to heat the water? May one wash his body in the warm 
water of the Tiberius springs or in water warmed on the Sabbath eve? 
May the entire body be washed at once or each member separately ? Cus- 
toms in a bath-house. Are sweat-baths permitted on the Sabbath ? 
Incidents occurring in the bath-house of the city of B’ni Brak. Why 
sweat-baths were prohibited. May one warm himself by a hearth-fire ? 
Is bathing one’s self in a washtub and anointing one’s self with oils per- 
mitted on the Sabbath? Usages of Rabbi Jehudah Hanassi in this matter. 
Is swimming in a lake permitted on the Sabbath? Incidents attending R. 
Zera’s witnessing R. Abuhu’s swimming in a lake on a Sabbath. Concerning 
the permissibility of pouring cold water in a muliar or antikhi, the fuel of 
which-had been removed ; or ina kettle, the hot water of which had been 
poured out, and the prescribed quantity of such water. Concerning the 
addition of spices to a pot of victuals. Concerning the permissibility of 
placing a vessel under a burning lamp to receive its dripping oil or falling 


XXXli SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


sparks, and the placing of a vessel under a hen to receive the egg. Ordi- 
nance relating to a corpse lying in the sun. If it is allowed to save a 
corpse from fire. Prayers to be offered on Sabbath over the dead. The 
accordance of permission to save a corpse from conflagration on the 
Sabbath, é . ‘ . ; ; i 2 : F A 67-74 

MISHNAS VZ/I, AND ZX, Concerning the handling of new and old lamps 
on the Sabbath, Ordinances relative to a bed which had been designated for 
the purpose of holding money on the Sabbath. The permissibility of handling 
a burning ’Hanukah lamp for fear of the Persians. The law of Muktza. 
The ordinance relative to handling a lamp on Sabbath and the dictum of 
Resh Lakish in Zidon, The ordinance concerning the nuptial couch. Action 
of R. Malkia while the guest of R. Simlai and R. Abuhu at the house of 
R. Joshua ben Levi and R. Johanan. The experience of R. Avia, who came 
to the house of Rabha and sat on Rabha’s bed without removing his dirty 
shoes. Questions put to him by Rabha, and his replies. The law of a prin- 
cipal prohibited act. What R. Hanina did with a folding-bed that had 
become unfastened on a feast day, . ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ P 74-82 


CHAPTER IV. 


MIsHNAS /. TO JV. What substances may be used for the preserving of 
victuals, Rabba’s and R. Zera’s upbraiding of a slave of the Exilarch, while 
sojourning in the latter’s house. Concerning the replacing of feathers ina 
pillow. Concerning the opening of a bunghead in a barrel and the making 
ofa neckband ina shirt. Concerning the permissibility of depositing vict- 
uals in cloth and shorn wool intended for market. The derivation of the 
thirty-nine principal acts of labor on the Sabbath from the thirty-nine times 
“work” is mentioned in the Pentateuch. The law concerning branches of 
trees which were bound together to be used for fuel and were subsequently 
intended for sitting upon. R.Hanina ben Agqiba’s action in such a case, 
The ordinance relating to the use of soap-powder and soap on the Sabbath. 
The necessity of washing one’s hands and feet for the sake of the Creator. 
What is to be done with a pot that had not been covered on the eve of 
Sabbath ? The decision of Ishmael in the matter in the presence of Rabbi. 
The mutual respect of the sages for one another. R. Na’hman’s statement 
to Doen his servant, : . . . . . . . . 83-90 


CHAPTER V. 


MISHNAS /. To ///, What gear animals may go out in on the Sabbath, 
Levi the son of R. Huna bar Hyya and Rabbi the son of R. Huna, occur- 
rence on the road. A bridle may be worn by an ass whose behavior is bad. 
A bridle is allowed as a guard but not as an ornament. An ass may go out 
with a rug, but what is the law concerning a saddle? Ordinances relative 
to a feed-bag. The decision of Arioch of Babylon (Samuel) in the matter. 
Concerning bags tied around the udders of she-goats. The miracle that was 
wrought for a man whose wife died and left him anursing child. The discus- 
sion of the rabbis about such a miracle. Narrative relating to a man whose 
wife was maimed. Concerning gear which may not be worn by animals 
on Sabbath. Peculiarities of the Hanun tree and where it may be found, 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. XXXiii 


The wealth of R. Eliezer ben Azariah. Penalty for the failure to warn one’s 
family against evil. The different signs on the foreheads of the righteous 
and the wicked. The seal of God. Derivation of the merits of the fathers. 
Is death possible without sin? Defence for Reuben and others who are men- 
tioned in the Bible as sinners. Rabbi Hanassi’s justification for David. 
Was David guilty of listening to slander? Consequences of David’s sin. 
King Solomon’s sin. The Archangel Gabriel’s act at the time of King 
Solomon’s marriage with Pharaoh’s daughter, The most fervent penitents, 

gI-106 

CHAPTER VI. 


MisHNas /. TO //7, What garments a woman may go outin. Definition 
of totaphoth. Concerning the garb of slaves. “ May the rabbis wear their 
insignia of office on Sabbath? Effect of a sermon on the women of the city 
of Mehuza concerning ornaments in the shape of a crown. Ordinances con- 
cerning nose-bands, earrings, and finger-rings. What garments a man 
must not go out in. Consequences of wearing iron-bound sandals. The 
law of majority. How shoes are to be put on. Why one when anointing 
himself should first anoint the head. Law concerning amulets, both tried 
and untried. Ordinances concerning hairpins and perfume-bottles. Causes 
of poverty. The trees of Jerusalem, . i ‘ : 107-117 

MISHNAS JV. TO ZX, Concerning bows, swords, and anietas: Are they 
considered ornaments or is the wearing of such things degrading? Inter- 
pretation of biblical passages. Are they to be taken literally or figuratively. 
Rewards emanating from the proper study of the Law. Customs of scholars 
when discussing the Law. God’s blessing upon scholars who mutually in- 
struct one another. Regarding a man who keeps a vicious dog about his 
premises. Why the children of Israel were in need of forgiveness upon 
their return from the war with the Midianites. What garments women, 
young girls, and boys may go out in on Sabbath. References to cripples 
and to children of princes. Concerning the danger of imitating the customs 
of the Amorites. Occurrence at the feast given by R. Aqiba, . 117-126 


CHAPTER. Vil, 


MISHNAS J. TO /77, The principal rule concerning the Sabbath. Regu- 
lations regarding children in captivity among idolaters and converts. Re- 
maining with idolaters. Rules concerning one who was ignorant as to what 
labor was prohibited on the Sabbath but was conscious of the Sabbath, and 
vice versa, Concerning a man who, while travelling in a desert, had for- 
gotten which day was Sabbath. How labor may be distinguished, Different 
instances of forgetfulness regarding Sabbath and the performance of labor 
on the Sabbath. Instances of forgetfulness in dietary matters. Instances 
of intentional and unintentional performance of labor, and their distinction. 
Enumeration of the forty, less one, acts of labor. Principal and incidental 
acts, The degree of guilt involved in learning magic arts. Condemnation 
of one who is able to acquire astronomical knowledge and neglects to do so. 
Another rule was laid down. Discussions concerning the carrying out of 
necessary things on the Sabbath and the limitation of quantity. Different 
kinds of food. may.be counted together, «.« ~% + Suet ee 127-142 


XXxiv SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


CHAPTER VIII. 


MisuNnas £ TO V. The prescribed quantities of wine, honey, and milk 
that may be carried out on Sabbath. The strength of different wines. In- 
stances of stronger creatures fearing weaker ones. Why goats precede 
sheep in a flock. Why are she-goats not covered with a tail like sheep? 
Why has a camel a short tail? Why has an ox a long tail? Why are the 
feelers of a locust soft? What is the reason that the lower eyelids of a hen 
turn up? Three creatures grow stronger, etc. The quantity of rope, paper 
from which writing has been erased, skins, parchment, bones, loam, etc., 
which may be carried out on the Sabbath. Honor of man supersedes a 
biblical commandment. What is magic? The explanation of the verse 
Isaiah, xxxv. 14, . . e ° . . ° . . ° 143-153 


CHAPTER IX. 


Misunas J. To V/Z, Sayings and deductions of R. Aqiba. The day of 
the week and the month on which the Law was given to Israel. Assump- 
tion of authority by Moses and God’s acquiescence. The name of the month 
on which the Israelites left Egypt, and was it an intercalary month? The 
compulsory acceptance of the law by the Israelites and their subsequent 
voluntary acceptance in the days of Xerxes of Persia. Israel’s readiness to 
obey even before hearing. The publication of every word spoken by God 
in seventy languages. Comparison of the sayings of the Torah with a 
nobleman. The understanding of the Law is healthful, its misinterpretation 
is poisonous. Every word leaving the mouth of the Lord filled the world 
with aromatic odors. Complaints of the angels upon the ascension of Moses 
to heaven. Moses’ answer. Satan’s search for the Torah. Concerning the 
bearing of a slave toward his master. Rabha’s lecture upon the patriarchs 
and their answers to the complaints of God concerning the children of Israel. 
Isaac’s defence of the children of Israel upon the Lord’s telling him that 
they had sinned. The quantity of spices, dyes, metals, pedler’s boxes, and 
seeds which may be carried out on the Sabbath, 5 ‘ ‘ 154-170 


CHAPTER X. 


Misunas 7. To V//7. Rules pertaining to one who carries out things 
valuable to him. The quantities in which they may be carried out. The 
quantities in which they may be carried out by one to whom they are not 
valuable. Concerning eatables which are carried out of the house and left 
on the doorstep, and things that are carried in the left hand, on the shoulder, 
on the head, or in the bosom. Concerning one who, while intending to carry 
a thing in front, accidentally carries it on his back, or vice versa. Concern- 
ing the case of two men carrying out a burden which one alone was not 
capable of carrying. The law in that case. Concerning the case of one 
who carries out eatables in quantities less than the limit in a vessel. Is he 
culpable for carrying the vessel or not? Concerning the permissibility of 
paring the finger-nails of one hand by means of those of the other hand on 
the Sabbath. The case of one tearing off flowers from a plant in an unper- 
forated flower-pot, ee Fe ee ae ee ee 171-182 


TRACT SABBATH. 





CHAPTER 1. 
REGULATIONS REGARDING TRANSFER ON SABBATH. ~ 


MISHNAI.: There are two acts constituting transfer* of 
movable things (over the dividing line of adjoining premises, 
based on biblical statutes). The two acts are, however, in- 
creased to four on the inside and to a like amount on the out- 
side of the premises (by the addition of rabbinical statutes). 
How so? A mendicant stands outside and the master of a 
house inside. The mendicant passes his hand into the house 
(through a window or door) and puts something into the hand 
of the master, or he takes something out of the master’s hand 
and draws it back (toward him). In such a case the mendicant 
is guilty (of transfer) and the master of the house is free. If 
the master of the house passes his hand outside and puts a 
thing into the hand of the mendicant, or takes something out of 
the mendicant’s hand and brings it into the house, the master 
of the house is culpable and the mendicant is free.t If the 
mendicant extends his hand into the house and the master takes 
something out of it, or puts something into it which is drawn 
to the outside by the mendicant, they are both free. If the 
master of the house extends his hand outside and the mendi- 
cant takes something out of it, or puts something into it which 
is drawn to the inside by the master, they are both free. 

GEMARA: We were taught (Shebuoth, IV. 2): ‘‘ The acts 





* See Jer. xvii. 21, 28, and Neh. xiii. 19. This Mishna treats of the prohibition, 
so strongly inculcated by the prophets, of transferring things over the line of division 
between various grounds or premises. 

+ The difference between the violation of the biblical statutes and that of the 
rabbinical statutes is marked by the prescription of the penalties of sin-offerings, 
shortening of life and capital punishment for the first-named violation, while no penal- 
ties are attached to a violation of the last-named statutes. (See Introduction.) 


VOL, IL.—I : T 


2 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


of transfer on the Sabbath are two, respectively four.’’ Why 
is this teaching here specified as two respectively four on the 
inside, and two respectively four on the outside, and there no 
such specification was made? Said R. Papa: Here the special 
subject of treatment is the Sabbath, and the Mishna enumer- 
ated the cases which involve guilt and those which do not in- 
volve guilt; while there the principal subject of treatment is 
a different one, and he mentions only the cases that involve 
guilt, leaving the cases that do not involve guilt untouched. 
But the cases that involve guilt are those by which acts of trans- 
fer are committed, and such are only two? Nay, there are two 
acts of transfer from within and two from without. But the 
Mishna says, ‘‘ Yetziath’’ (which in a literal sense means trans- 
fer from within)? Said R. Ashi: The Tana calls transfer from 
without by the same term. And for what reason? Because 
every act of removing a thing from its place is called Yetziah. 
Said Rabbina: The Mishna also bears out this sense; for it 
speaks of Yetziath and immediately illustrates its remark by 
citing a case from without. This bears it out. Rabha, how- 
ever, says: He (the Tana) speaks about divided premises (whose 
line of division is crossed), and in this case there are only two 
(in each of which there may be four acts of transfer). 

Said R. Mathna to Abayi: Are there not eight, even twelve 
(instances of transfer over the line of division)?* And he re- 
joined: Such transfers as involve the obligation of a sin-offering 
are counted; but those that do not involve such an obligation 
are not counted. 

‘‘ They are both free.’’ Was not the act (of transfer) com- 

mitted by both? Said R. Hyya bar Gamda: The act of remov- 
ing the thing was committed by the joint efforts of both, and 
they (the rabbis) said: ‘‘ It is written in the law, when a person 
did it ’’ +—2.e., when one person commits the act he is culpable; 
but when an act is committed by the joint efforts of two per- 
sons, they are both free. 
- Rabh questioned Rabbi: If one were laden by his friend 
with eatables and beverages and carried them outside (of the 
house), how is the law? Is the removing of his body tanta- 
mount to the removing of a thing from its place, and therefore 
he is culpable, or is it not so? 





* Rashi explains at length how eight or even twelve instances of transfer could 
occur, but, not being essential to the subject, we omit the explanation, 
+ Lev. iv. 27. 


TRACT SABBATH. 3 


Said Rabbi to him: He is culpable. And this case is not 
like the case of removing his hand. Why so? Because (in the 
latter case) the hand was not at rest, while (in the former) the 
body (before and after removal) was entirely at rest.* 

Said Rabbi Hyya to Rabh: Descendant of nobles! Did I 
not tell thee that when Rabbi is engaged with a certain tract 
ask him not about a subject (that is treated) in another tract, 
for he may not have that subject in his mind! And if Rabbi 
were not a great man thou mightest cause him shame, for he 
would give thee an answer which might not be right. In this 
instance, however, he gave thee a correct answer; as we have 
learned in the following Boraitha: If one was laden with eat- 
ables and beverages while it was yet light on the eve of Sab- 
bath, and he carried them outside after dark, he is culpable; for 
his case is not like that of removing the hand mentioned above. 

Abayi said: From all that was said above it is certain to me 
that the hand of a man (standing on the street) is not treated as 
public ground.t And I also see that (if a man stands on private 
ground) his hand is not to be treated as private ground. Would 
it be correct, then, to regard the handas unclaimed ground? If 
so, would the penalty imposed by the rabbis in such a case, 
namely, that one should not move his hand (containing a mov- 
able thing) back (during the Sabbath day), apply in this case or 
not? 

Come and hear the following Boraitha: If a man has his 
hand filled with fruit and he extends it outside (of the premises 
where he stands), one said he is not permitted to draw it back, 
and another Boraitha says he is allowed to do so. May we not 
assume that this is their point of dispute: the former holds that 
the hand is treated as unclaimed ground, and the latter thinks 
that it is not like unclaimed ground? Nay, it may be that both 
agree that the hand (as spoken of in our Mishna) is like un- 
claimed ground, and yet it presents no difficulty. One of the 
Boraithas treats of a man who had extended his hand uninten- 
tionally, and the other one treats of a man who had put forth 
his hand intentionally. In the former case the rabbis did not 





* Students of the Talmud will remember that while in the act of walking a man 
cannot be guilty of the transgression of carrying movable property. The body must 
be at rest. The removal of a thing by means of the hand implies a disturbance in 
the rest of the body. 

+ As illustrated in our Mishna ; for if he did not deposit the thing that he had 
passed from the street into the house, he was not culpable. 


4 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


fine him, and in the latter case they did. And if you wish, it may 
be said that they both speak of a case when the act was done 
unintentionally, and their point of differing is as to the varying 
premises, whether the hand may be drawn back to the ground 
where the man stands, or to other (private) ground that adjoins 
it? As Rabha questioned R. Na’hman: If the hand of a man 
was filled with fruit, and he extended it outside, may he draw 
it back to the same ground where he stands? And he answered: 
He may. (And may he remove his hand) to other (private) 
ground? Nay. And to the question, ‘‘ What is the distinc- 
tion ?’’ he said: If thou wilt measure a whole kur of salt and 
present me with it, I shall tell thee the answer. (See footnote, 
Erubin, p. 79.) In the former case his design was not accom- 
plished; in the latter, however, his design was accomplished (and 
it is prohibited for fear that it should be repeated). 

R. Bibi bar Abayi questioned: If one has put bread into the 
oven, is he allowed to take it out before (it is baked and) he 
becomes liable to bring a sin-offering, or not ? 

Said R. A’ha bar Abayi to Rabhina: What does the ques- 
tioner mean? Unintentionally and without remembering (that 
it is Sabbath), then what does the expression ‘‘ allowed ’’ mean ? 
To whom? He is still not aware of it. On the other hand, if 
he did it unintentionally and afterward he remembered of the 
Sabbath, how can he be liable to a sin-offering; did not a Mishna 
state that the liability to bring such a sacrifice applies only when 
the failing was begun and accomplished unintentionally ? Should 
it be understood that the act was done intentionally, then it 
would not involve the liability of a sin-offering, but it would 
constitute a crime that involved capital punishment.* 

Said R. Ashi: Say, then, it is a crime that involves capital 
punishment. R. A’ha, the son of Rabha, taught so plainly. 
R. Bibi bar Abayi said: If one put bread into the oven, he is 
allowed to take it out before it may involve a case of capital 
punishment. 

““ The mendicant extended his hand,’’ etc. Why is he culpa- 
ble ? (To complete the act) there must be a transfer from a 
place that is four ells square and a depositing into a place of the 
same area, and such was not the case here. Said Rabba: Our 





* All the labors that were performed at the construction of the tabernacle in the 
desert, as is taught in a Mishna farther on, if done on the Sabbath intentionally, in- 
volved capital punishment. The intention becomes apparent when there are wit- 
nesses to warn the perpetrator of his wrong and he does not heed them, 


TRACT SABBATH. 5 


Mishna is in accordance with R. Aqiba’s opinion, who holds 
that as soon as the air of a place surrounds a thing it is equal to 
the thing being deposited in that place. But may it not be that 
depositing does not require four ells, for the reason stated above, 
but removing does? Said R. Joseph: The teaching of this 
paragraph agrees (not with the opinion of R. Aqiba), but with 
that of Rabbi, as we have learned in the following Boraitha: 

If one threw an object from one street into the other, and 
there was a private ground between them, Rabbi declared him 
culpable, and the sages freed him. NHereupon R. Jehudah in 
the name of Samuel said: Rabbi declared the man guilty of two 
offences: one for having removed the thing from its place, and 
one for having deposited it in another place. Hence in both, 
the four ells in question are not required. 

But with reference to this it was taught that both Rabh and 
Samuel said that Rabbi’s declaration of culpability treated of 
a case where the private ground (that divided the two streets) 
was roofed, for the assumption is that a house must be regarded 
as a solid object that fills out all the space it occupies, but not 
when it was unroofed ? 

Therefore said Rabha: (All these views can be dispensed 
with, as) the hand of a man (because of its value) is consid- 
ered as a piece of ground four ells square. And so, also, was 
declared by Rabin, when he came from Palestine, in the name 
of R. Johanan. 

R. Abhin in the name of R. Ila’a, quoting R. Johanan, said: 
If one threw a thing and it rested in the hands of another man, 
he is culpable. 

Why the cepeurlone “han not R. Johanan declared above, 
already, that the hand of a man is considered as a space of four 
ells square? Lest one say that this is only when he zx¢ended to 
put it into his hand (and the intention makes it valuable as the 
space in question), but not otherwise. Therefore the repetition. 

The same said again in the name of the same authority: If 
one remains standing in his place when he receives a thing, he 
is culpable; but if he was moving away from his place when he 
received it, he is free. And so also we have learned in a Boraitha 
in the name of the anonymous teachers, 

R. Johanan asked the following question: If one threw a 
thing and then moved from his place and caught it, is he cul- 
pable or not? Howis this question to be understood? Said 
R. Ada bar Ah’bah: The difficulty is concerning the exercise 


6 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


of two forces by one man, and the question was thus: If two 
forces were exercised by one man (in committing a prohibited 
act), should both parts of the act be accounted to the same, so 
that he should be declared culpable, or should each part of the 
act be considered separately, as if there were two individuals 
concerned, and then he is free? This question is not decided. 

R. Abhin in the name of R. Johanan said: If one put his 
hand into the yard of his neighbor, got it full of rain water, and 
withdrew it, he is guilty. But to make one guilty of the act, it 
must consist of removing a thing from a place of four ells square, 
which is not the case here. Said R. Hyya b. R. Huna: It 
means that he took the water as it was running down a slanting 
wall, as Rabba taught elsewhere that removing a thing from a 
slanting wall made the man culpable. But (in speaking of re- 
moving an object from a slanting wall) Rabba treated on the 
question of removing a book, which is a stationary thing. Is it 
analogous to removing water that can never become stationary ? 

Therefore said Rabha: Our case treats when he dipped the 
water out of a cavity (in the wall) in question. Is not this self- 
evident ? 

Lest one say that water standing upon water is not consid- 
ered stationary, he comes to teach us that it is. And this is in 
accordance with his theory, as follows: Water standing upon 
water is considered stationary; a nut, however, lying upon the 
surface of water is not considered so. 

The same said again, in the name of the same authorities: 
One who was laden with eatables and beverages, entering and 
going out the whole day, he is not culpable until he rests. Said 
Abayi: And even then only if he stops for the purpose of rest- 
ing; but not when he stops merely to adjust his burden on his 
shoulders. Whence is this deduced? From what the master 
said: If he stopped within the limit of four ells to rest he is 
free, but if he stopped to adjust the load on his shoulders he is 
culpable. Beyond four ells, if he stopped to rest he is culpable, 
but if he stopped to adjust the burden on his shoulder he is not 
culpable. What does this imply? It implies that one cannot 
be culpable unless his intention of removing was before he 
stopped. 

The rabbis taught: If one takes anything from his store into 
the market through the alley-way (where the benches of market- 
men are situated), he is culpable; it makes no difference whether 
he carries, throws, or pushes it with his arm. Ben Azai, how- 


TRACT SABBATH. 7 


ever, said: If he carries it in or out he is not culpable, but if he 
throws or pushes it in or out he is culpable. The same we 
have learned in another Boraitha. 

The rabbis taught: There are four kinds of premises as re- 
gards the Sabbath—viz.: private ground, public ground, un- 
claimed ground, and ground that is under no jurisdiction. What 
is private ground? A ditch or hedge that is ten spans deep or 
high and four spans wide—such are absolutely private grounds. 
What is public ground? A country road or a wide street, or 
lanes open at both ends—such are absolutely public grounds. 
[So that in these two kinds of premises nothing must be carried 
from one to the other; and if such was done by one uninten- 
tionally, he is liable to a sin-offering; if, however, intentionally, 
then he is liable to be “‘ cut off,’’ or to suffer the extreme pen- 
alty (at the hands of human justice). | 

A sea, a valley of fields, the front walk (before a row of 
stores), and unclaimed ground are neither like public nor like 
private ground. [Nothing should be carried about there to 
start with ; but if one has done it, he is not culpable. Nor 
should anything be taken out of these grounds into public or 
private ground, or brought in from the latter into these grounds; 
but if one has done so, he is not culpable. In adjoining court- 
yards of many tenants and alleys that are open at both ends, 
where the tenants have made it communal property,* carrying 
things is allowed; however, it is not allowed when such is not 
done. A man standing on the door-step+ may take things 
from or give things to the master of the house; so also may he 
take a thing from a mendicant in the street or give it to him; 
but he must not take things from the master of the house and 
hand them over to the mendicant in the street, nor take from 
the latter and transmit to the former. Still, if this was done, all 
the three men are not guilty. Anonymous teachers, however, 
say that the door-step serves as two separate grounds: when 
the door is open it belongs to the inside, and when the door is 
closed it belongs to the outside. But if the door-step is ten 
spans high and four spans wide, it is considered as a premises in 
itself. ] 

The master said: ‘‘ Such are absolutely private grounds.’’ 





* The technical expression is ‘‘to make an Erubh,” z.é., to mix their possessions 
as if they were partners, as explained in Tract Erubin, I. 2. 

t A door-step is regarded as ground of which the religious law takes no cogni- 
zance. 


8 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


What does he intend to exclude (by this emphatic declaration) ? 
To exclude that which R. Jehudah taught about Erubhin (p. 25). 
‘** These are absolutely public grounds.’’ What does it mean 
to exclude? To exclude another instance of R. Jehudah’s 
teaching, concerning the enclosure of wells. (Ibid., p. 40.) 

Why does not the Boraitha count the desert also, for have 
we not learned in a Boraitha: Public ground is constituted by 
public roads, wide streets, alleys that are open at both ends, 
and the desert ? Said Abayi: It presents no difficulty. There 
the law was expounded as it existed when Israel dwelt in the 
desert; here, however, the law is taught as it prevails at the 
present time. 

The master said: ‘‘ If one has brought in or taken out a 
thing unintentionally,’’ etc. Is not this self-evident? He 
means to say that if the culprit did it intentionally, ‘‘ he is 
liable to be cut off,’’ etc. Also this is self-evident ? He comes 
to teach, because of the following statement of Rabh, who 
said: “‘I found mysterious scrolls in the possession of my 
uncle, R. Hyya, which read: Aysy ben Jehudah says: There 
are forty less one principal acts of labor. A man, however, 
cannot be guilty of performing but one. And to the question, 
How is this to be understood ? the answer was: It should be 
corrected and read: There is one of those acts of labor for which 
a man is not guilty. (In consequence, however, of the omis- 
sion just what particular act of labor is excluded, all of the 
thirty-nine remained doubtful); and the Boraitha teaches that 
the labor mentioned is not one of the doubtful.”’ 

Again, the master said: ‘‘ A sea, a valley of fields,’ etc. Is 
that so? Have we not learned (Taharoth, VI. 7) that a valley 
is, in summer time, to be regarded as private ground with ref- 
erence to the Sabbath, and as public ground with reference to 
defilement; in the rainy season, however, it is private ground 
in all respects? Said Ula: Asa matter of fact it is unclaimed 
ground, but by calling it private ground the Boraitha only means 
to distinguish it from public ground. R. Ashi, however, said: 
He speaks of a valley in which there are partitions.* 

‘* And unclaimed ground.’’ Are not all the above-men- 
tioned unclaimed ground? When R. Dimi came he said in the 





* According to Rashi, R. Ashi means to state that even when the capacity of 
the valley was more than two saoth and no dwelling was near, which is always con- 
sidered as unclaimed ground in regard to this, nevertheless it is considered as pri- 
vate ground, and whoever carries from it into public ground is guilty. 








TRACT SABBATH. 9 


name of R. Johanan: The mention of ‘‘ unclaimed ground ’’ in 
this case is required merely to imply a corner (of a private plot) 
that adjoins public ground; for although at times (when the 
street is crowded) many people are forced into this corner, it is 
considered as unclaimed ground, as the public use of it is not 
regarded with favor. He said also in the name of the same 
authority: The space between the pillars and the buildings (on 
the side of the street) is considered by the law as unclaimed 
ground. Why so? Because although many walk there, still, 
since one cannot make his way in such space freely (the row of 
pillars being irregular or in a broken ne): it is like unclaimed 
ground. 

R. Zera in the name of R. Jehudah said: The benches in 
front of pillars are regarded as unclaimed ground (even if they 
are ten spans high and four spans wide). The one who holds 
that the space between the pillars is considered as such, will so 
much the more agree that the benches in front of the pillars are 
considered such; but he who says that the benches are so con- 
sidered, may hold that this is so because the encroachment 
upon them is not regarded with favor. The ground between the 
pillars, however, which is usually trodden by many people, is 
like public ground. 

Rabba b. Shila in the name of R. Hisda said: If one throw 
or plaster (an adhesible) thing against the side of a brick that 
is standing up in the street, he is culpable; but if he throw or 
plaster a thing on top of it, he is not. Abayi and Rabha both 
said: Provided the brick is three spans high, so that people 
do not step upon it; with bushes or briars, however, even if 
less than three spans high, one is not culpable. And Hyya 
bar Rabh said: Even a bush or briar must be three spans 
high.* 

Rabba, of the school of R. Shila, said: When R. Dimi came 
from Palestine, he said in the name of R. Johanan: No space 
can be considered unclaimed ground unless it has an area of 
four spans square, and R. Shesheth added that it holds good up 
to ten spans square. What does it mean? Shall we assume 
that only if it has a partition of ten spans it is unclaimed ground ? 
Has not R. Giddell in the name of R. Hyya bar Joseph, quot- 





* Any space that is less than ten spans high from the ground is considered by the 
law as unclaimed ground, and there things may be handled on the Sabbath only as 
above, while on private ground things may be handled freely within the whole area 
over which it extends. 


10 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


ing Rabh, said: A house that is not ten spans high, but which 
is raised to that height by the ceiling, one may handle on the 
roof over its entire area; inside of the house, however, only 
within four ells square? Therefore we must say that the state- 
ment: ‘‘ It holds good up to ten spans,’’ implies that the law 
of unclaimed ground is valid when the height does not exceed 
tenspans. As Samuel said to R. Jehudah: ‘‘ Ingenious scholar! 
treat not on laws of the Sabbath exceeding ten spans in height.”’ 
And to what does it apply? To private ground it could not 
apply, as it is known that private ground is so considered to the 
sky; hence it is only to unclaimed ground that above ten spans 
does not exist, as the rabbis have invested unclaimed grounds 
with the lenient regulations pertaining to private ground—viz.: 
If the place have an area of four spans square, it is unclaimed 
ground; if it has a lesser area, it is not subservient to any juris- 
diction. And with the lenient regulations of public ground— 
viz.: The place is regarded as unclaimed ground only to the 
height of ten spans; beyond that it ceases to be unclaimed 
ground. 

The text says: ‘‘In a house the inside of which is not ten 
spans high,’’ etc. Said Abayi: If, however, one has cut in it 
an excavation four ells square, so as to complete the height of 
ten spans, one may handle things freely in the whole house. 
Why so? Because in such a case the entire space of the house 
(around the excavation) would be considered like holes on private 
ground, and it has been taught that such holes are regarded the 
same as the private ground itself. As to holes on public ground, 
Abayi said: They are like public ground. Rabha, however, 
says that they are not. Said Rabha to Abayi: According to 
your theory, holes on public ground are to be considered the 
same as the ground itself. In which respect, then, does this 
case differ from what R. Dimi said above (p. 8) in the name of 
R. Johanan? Let, according to thy opinion, such a corner be 
considered as a hole in public ground. Nay, the use of the 
corner is not considered favorable by people, while no one 
objects to the use of a hole in the street. 

R. Hisda said: If a person erected a pole on private ground 
and threw something at it, if that thing rested on top of the 
pole, and be that pole a hundred ells high, the person is 
culpable, for private ground is absolutely unlimited in height. 
Shall we assume that R. Hisda holds in accordance with 
Rabbi of the following Boraitha: ‘‘If one threw a thing (in 


mate 





TRACT SABBATH. . 11 


the street) and it rested upon the smallest cornice* (of a 
house), according to Rabbi he is culpable, and the schoolmen 
say that he is not.’’ Said Abayi: In private ground all admit 
the decision of R. Hisda. The case, however, in which Rabbi 
and the sages differ was a tree that stands on private ground 
with its branches reaching out into public ground, and one 
threw a thing which rested on a branch. Rabbi holds that the 
branch is part and parcel of the root, but the sages opine that 
we need not assume such to be the case. 

Abayi said: If one threw a bee-hive which was ten spans 
high, but not six spans wide, into the street, he is culpable; if, 
however, the bee-hive was six spans wide, he is free (because it 
is considered a piece of private ground in itself). Rabha, how- 
ever, said he is not, even if it be less than six spans wide. Why 
so? Because it is impossible for twined reed not to exceed the 
given height.t In case he threw the bee-hive ¢{ with its mouth 
down, even if the hive is a trifle over seven spans high, he is 
culpable; but if it is seven and a half spans high, he is not. R. 
Ashi, however, said: He is, even if it is seven and a half spans 
high. Whyso? Because the enclosing rim of the bee-hive is 
made for the purpose of containing something within, and not 
to be attached to the ground; hence it is not included in the 
Lavud class.§ 

Ula said: A post nine spans high, which stands in the street, 
and people use it to shoulder (their burdens) on, if one threw 
a thing and it rested on the top of it, he is culpable. Why so? 
Because a thing that is less than three spans high is stepped 
upon by many; a thing between three and nine spans high is 
not used either to step or to shoulder a burden on; but if it is 
nine spans high, it is surely used to shoulder burdens on. 

Abayi questioned R. Joseph: What is the law of a pit (of 
similar depth)? Said he: The same (as of the post). Rabha, 

* The cornice which is spoken of above should be like the branch in this instance. 

+ The space above ten spans does not enter within the jurisdiction of public ground. 

¢ Here a bee-hive is spoken of which is not six spans in circumference, 7.¢., less 
than four spans square. 

§ There is a law of Mosaic origin determining that every object that is not farther 
from the ground than three spans must be considered ‘‘ Lavud,” z.¢., attached to the 
ground. In the above case, when a bee-hive seven spans or a trifle over seven spans 
high is thrown to the ground, it does not become postively ‘‘ Lavud” when within 
three spans from the ground, and is thus considered ten spans in all. The margin is 
too small. It must be seven and a half spans high, and when reaching the ground 


within three spans the hive becomes ‘‘ Lavud,” and being positively over ten spans 
high is treated as a piece of private property. 





12 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


however, said: A pit of similar depth is not governed by the 
same law. Why so? Because the use (which is made of a 
thing) through compulsion is not called (a customary) use. 

Rk. Adda bar Mathna objected to Rabha from the following 
Boraitha: If one intended to keep the Sabbath on public ground 
and deposited his Erubh in a pit less than ten spans (below the 
ground), his act is valid. ‘‘If he deposited it more than ten 
spans below the ground, his Erubh is of no value.’’ Let us see 
how was the case. If the pit was more than ten spans deep, 
and by the saying ‘‘ he deposited it less than ten spans below 
the ground’’ is meant that he raised the Erubh to a higher 
place, and by the saying ‘‘ more than ten spans’’ is meant on 
the bottom of the pit, then, at all events, the Erubh could not 
be of any value; as he is in public ground, and his Erubh is in 
private, therefore we must say that the case was of a pit less 
than ten spans deep, and nevertheless the Erubh is valid; hence 
we see that the use of a place through compulsion can at times 
be considered as customary use. 

The answer was that the Boraitha is according to Rabbi, 
who says that against things which are prohibited only rabbini- 
cally because of rest (Shebuoth) no precautionary measures are 
taken when they are to be done at twilight, and the prescribed 
time for depositing an Erubh is twilight; therefore, although 
the use of the pit which was less than ten spans deep was com- 
pulsory, the Erubh was nevertheless valid, because respecting 
twilight the rabbis are not particular. 

R. Jehudah said: If one moves a bundle of reeds by raising 
one end and throwing it over, then raising the other end and 
throwing it over, he is not culpable, unless he lifts the entire 
bundle off the ground. 

The master said: ‘‘ A man standing on the door-step,’’ etc. 
What is that step? If it is the step of the street, how may he 
‘“take from the master of the house’’; does he not transfer 
from private ground into public ground ? If it is the step of the 
house, how may he ‘‘ take from the mendicant (standing in the 
street)’’ ? Does he not transfer from public into private ground ? 
And if it is unclaimed ground, how may he “‘ take and give 
intentionally,’ since a direct prohibition to that effect exists ? 

Nay, the door-step is a place concerning which the law has 
no provision; as, for instance, it is not four spans square. It is 
said elsewhere by R. Dimi in the name of R. Johanan that such 
a thing is not under the jurisdiction. 


TRACT SABBATH. 13 


The master said: ‘‘ All three are not culpable.’’ Would 
this not be an objection to Rabha, who said if one transfer an 
object (in public ground) from one to the other limit of four 
spans, even if he moves it over his head (z.c., above ten spans 
from the ground), he is culpable? In the above-mentioned 
case, however, he is not. 

Anonymous teachers say ‘‘a door-step,’’ etc. Is such the 
case even if there is no side-beam to it? Has not R. Hamma 
bar Gorion in the name of Rabh said that if it is inside the door, 
and not even four spans square, there must still be a side-beam 
to make it a free place? Said R. Judah in the name of Rabh: 
Here the doorstep of an alley is treated of, the half of which is 
roofed, and the other half not roofed, and the roofing is toward 
the inside. In this case when the door is open it is considered 
like the inside, when it is closed it is like the outside. R. Ashi, 
however, said: The case was of a door-step of a house, but the 
door was topped by two beams, each of which was less than four 
spans wide, and between them the space was less than three spans 
wide, the door itself being in the middle, so that the law of Lavud 
applies only when the door is open, and not when it is closed; 
therefore when it is open the door-step is considered as the inside, 
and when it is closed the door-step is regarded as the outside. 

““If the door-step is ten spans high,’’ etc. This supports 
the theory of R. Isaac bar Abbimi, who said that R. Mair used 
to say: Wherever thou findest two distinct grounds belonging 
to the same premises (z.¢., to which the law of premises regard- 
ing the Sabbath applies equally), like a post in private ground, 
that is ten spans high and four wide, it is prohibited to shoulder 
(a burden) on it. As a precautionary measure (enacted by the 
rabbis), for fear that the same would be done with a rock of the 
same size that may be found in the street, and it is biblically 
prohibited to shoulder upon it. 

MISHNA J/.: One shall not sit down * before the hair-cut- 
ter at the approach of the time for afternoon devotion,t before 





* The reference made here, that one should not sit down before the hair-cutter 
near the time for the afternoon prayer isa simple precaution. The exact specification 
for the time is to be found in Berachoth, Perek IV., M. 1. 

¢ The following discussions may seem to have no direct connection with the ordi- 
nances pertaining to the Sabbath ; however, they are included in the tract on account 
of their connection with the succeeding Mishna, which commences: ‘‘ A tailor shall 
not go out with his needle when it is nearly dark on Friday.” Incidentally, the 
injunctions concerning the time for the Min’ha are given, in order that prayer time 
shall not be forgotten. 


14 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


reciting his prayers. Nor shall he enter a bath-room or a tan- 
nery (the same is the case with any factory or large business), 
or sit down to eat, or start pleading a case (before a judge). 
But if he has started, he need not be interrupted. One must 
quit his work to read Shema, but he need not stop working in 
order to pray. . 

GEMARA: What time of Min’ha does the Mishna mean ? 
Does it mean the high afternoon * time ? Why should a man not 
be allowed, since the day is still young ? Does it mean the lesser 
time, and still hold that (if the man had started the work) he 
need not discontinue it ? Shall this be taken as an objection to 
the opinion of R. Joshua ben Levi, who said: ‘‘ When the time 
of afternoon prayer draws nigh, one must not partake of any- 
thing before performing his devotion’’? Nay, he speaks here 
of the high time, and yet one shall not begin cutting his hair, as 
a precaution against accidents, lest his scissors break; a bath to 
sweat, lest he grow exhausted; a tannery, lest he notice some 
damage to his wares and become confused; nor shall he sit down 
to eat lest the meal be protracted; pleading a case of justice, 
lest argument be advanced that overthrows all previous argu- 
ments, and until all this is settled the Min’ha prayer will be 
forgotten. 

From what moment does the act of hair-cutting begin? Said 
R. Abhin: From the moment the barber’s cloth is spread over 
him. The act of bathing begins from the moment the coat is 
pulled off; tanning begins from the moment the working-apron 
is tied around the shoulders; a meal begins from the moment 
the hands are washed, so said Rabh; but R. Hanina said, from 
the moment one takes off his girdle. And they do not differ. 
Rabh spoke of the custom of his country, and R. Hanina spoke 
of the custom of his country. 

Abayi said: According to him who holds that the evening 
prayer is discretionary, our Babylon colleagues, as soon as they 
take off their girdle for the meal, they must not be troubled to 
pray before meal; however, according to him who holds that 
even this prayer is obligatory, they must be troubled. But is 





* High afternoon (Min’ha) was the time when the regular afternoon sacrifice was 
offered at the temple, about an hour after midday. The lesser afternoon time was 
about an hour before sunset. Because the time for afternoon devotion was calculated 
by the offering of the ‘‘ gift-sacrifice,” the name of that sacrifice, ‘‘ Min’ha,” is used 
by the rabbis as a technical term to designate both the afternoon devotion and the 
time when it is to be performed. 





TRACT SABBATH. 15 


not the afternoon prayer obligatory by all means, and neverthe- 
less our Mishna teaches that ‘‘ if he began (his meal) he need 
not be interrupted,’’ to which R. Hanina said that the loosen- 
ing of the girdle (is the beginning)? In the case of the after- 
noon prayer, since the time for it is fixed, (we assume) that the 
man will hasten and will not fail to pray in time, while for evening 
prayer, the time for which extends through the entire night, it 
is feared that he may not hasten, and neglect it. 

R. Shesheth opposed: Is it so much trouble to put on one’s 
girdle ? Furthermore, cannot one stand up (without a girdle) and 
pray? Nay! As it is written: ‘‘ Prepare thyself to meet thy 
God, O Israel!’’ [Amos, iv. 12]; and as Rabha b. R. Huna 
used to put on stockings when he stood up to recite prayers, 
saying: Itis written: ‘‘ Prepare thyself,’’ etc. Rabha, how- 
ever, used to throw off his mantle and fold his hands when 
he prayed, speaking as a slave before his master. R. Ashi 
said: I have observed R. Kahana. In times of trouble he 
threw off his mantle and folded his hands when he prayed, 
speaking like a slave before his master. In times of peace 
he dressed and fitted himself up carefully, saying: ‘‘It is 
written, Prepare thyself to meet thy God, O Israel.’’ Rabha 
noticed that R. Hamnunaspent much time at his prayers. Said 
he: ‘‘ Thus they quit eternal life and busy themselves with 
transient life.’’* He, R. Hamnuna, however, thought that the 
time spent in prayer is a thing by itself, and the time devoted 
to study is also a thing by itself. R. Jeremiah was sitting 
before R. Zera discussing a Halakha. The day was breaking 
and time for prayer came, and R. Jeremiah hastened for the 
purpose of praying. Said R. Zera to him: ‘‘ When one turn- 
eth away his ear so as not to listen to the law, even his prayer 
becometh an abomination ’’ [Prov. xxviii. 9]. 

At what moment does the work of dispensing justice com- 
mence? R. Jeremiah and R. Jonah—one said: ‘‘ From the 
moment the judges put on their mantles’’; the other said: 
“From the moment the litigants begin pleading.’’ And they 
do’not differ. The former speaks of the instance of opening 
court; the latter of the instance when the court was in session 
and the judges were engaged in deciding other cases. 

Up to what time should court be in session? R. Shesheth 





* The rabbi thus regarded prayer as a thing belonging to transient life, because 
it benefits only the individual, Study, on the other hand, is regarded as an object 
that concerns eternal life, for by its results future generations may be benefited, 


16 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


said: ‘‘ Up to meal time.’ Said R. Hama: From what scrip- 
tural passage have we this? From ‘‘ Happy art thou, O land! 
when thy king is noble-spirited, and thy princes eat in proper 
time, for strengthening and not for gluttony!’’ [Eccl. x. 17]; 
z.e., for the strength of the law and not for indulgence in wine. 

The rabbis taught: The first hour (of the day) is the time the 
Lydians eat (the Lydians were cannibals); in the second hour 
robbers eat; in the third hour (rich) heirs eat; the fourth hour 
is eating-time for the people in general; in the fifth hour laborers 
eat; in the sixth hour scholars eat; from the last hour onward, 
eating is like throwing a stone into a barrel (rather injurious 
than beneficial). Said Abayi: This is the case only when one 
has tasted nothing in the morning; but if he did so, it does not 
matter. 

R. Ada bar Ahba said: One may say his prayers in a new 
bath-room, which has not been used. R. Hamnuna said in the 
name of Ula: One is not permitted to call Shalom to another 
man in a bath-room, for it is written: ‘‘ He called the Eternal 
Shalom ”’ [Judges, vi. 23].* Ifso, the saying of the word “‘ faith ”’ 
should also be prohibited, for it is written, ‘‘ the faithful God ”’ 
[Deut. vii. 9]. And lest one say so it is, has not Rabha bar 
Mehassia said in the name of R. Hama bar Gorion, quoting 
Rabh, that ‘‘ faith’’ may be mentioned ? In the latter case the 
name itself is not so designated, as it means as it is translated 
above. But in the former case it (Shalom) is a designation of 
the name itself. 

The same says again in the name of the same authority: If 
one bestows a gift on his friend, he should let him know it; as 
it is written: ‘‘ To know that I, the Eternal, made you holy”’ 
[Ex. xxxi. 13]. And there is a Boraitha which states as fol- 
lows: ‘‘ The Holy One, blessed be He, said unto Moses, I have 
a good gift in my storehouse; its name is Sabbath, which I wish 
to bestow on Israel; go and announce it to them.’’ From this 
R. Simeon ben Gamaliel said: One who gives a child some 
bread should announce it to its mother. How shall he do this ? 
Said Abayi: He should put some ointment around its eyes and 
stain it with dye. 

Is this so? Has not R. Hama b. Hanina said: He who 
bestows a gift on his friend need not announce it to him, for 
it is written: ‘‘ Moses knew not,”’ etc. [Ex. xxxiv. 29]. This 





* Translated literally. Leeser, however, translates differently according to the 
sense, but his translation is not correct. 

















TRACT SABBATH 17 


presents no difficulty. The latter instance represents a thing 
that is to become known by itself; the former instance treats of 
a thing that cannot become known by itself. 

But was not the Sabbath a thing that was to become known ? 
Aye, but the reward (for keeping the Sabbath holy) that attends 
it was not to be known. 

R. Johanan in the name of R. Simeon b. Yohayi said: All 
the commands that the Holy One, blessed be He, gave unto 
Israel, were given with publicity, excepting the Sabbath, which 
was given in privacy, for it is written: “‘ Between me and the 
children of Israel it is an everlasting sign’’ [Ex. xxxi. 17]. If 
such is the case, the idolaters need not be punished for its sake. 
The Sabbath was made known, but the additional soul (a new 
impetus of life) which comes with the Sabbath was not made 
known to them. Thus R. Simeon b. Lakish said: ‘‘ The Holy 
One, blessed be He, bestows an additional soul on man on the 
eve of the Sabbath, and takes it back again when the Sabbath 
départs.”* * 

R. Hisda held in his hand two gifts t+ from the flesh of an ox, 
and said: “‘ I will give this to the man who will tell me some 
new teaching in the name of Rabh.’’ Said Rabha b. Mehassia 
to him, thus taught Rabh: ‘‘ He who bestows a gift on a friend 
should let him know it.’”’ And R. Hisda gave him the meat. 
Said the former again: Art thou so fond of the teachings of 
Rabh? ‘‘ Aye, aye,’’ he answered. Said he: This is like that 
which Rabh said: A silk garment is precious to the wearer. 
Rejoined R. Hisda: Did Rabh indeed say so? This second 
thing is even better than the first; if I had other gifts I would 
bestow them too. 

Rabha b. Mehassia in the name of the same said again: One 
should never show preference for one child above his other chil- 
dren, as for the sake of two selas’ weight of silk, which Jacob 
bestowed on Joseph in preference to his other sons, the brothers 
became jealous of Joseph, and the development brought about 
our ancestors’ migration into Egypt. 

Again he continued: One should always endeavor to seek a 
dwelling in a city of recent settlement, for the settlement being 
recent, the sins are few. As it is written: “‘ Behold, this city is 





* Transposed from Tract Betzah, p. 164. 

+ He was an Aaronite, and in his time they used to give the Aaronites their meat- 
offerings. In the time of R. Hisda the descendants of the priests still received their 
titles. 

VOL. I.—2. 


18 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


near to flee thereunto, and it is little’’ [Gen. xix. 20]. What 
does it mean, it is near and small? Could not he see this him- 
self? But it means its settlement is recent and therefore its 
sins are not many. 

The same said again: A city whose roofs are higher than 
that of the synagogue will ultimately be destroyed, as it is writ- 
ten: ‘‘ To raise high the house of our God,”’ etc. [Ezra, ix. 9]. 
However, this refers only to the roofs of the houses, but as to 
the tops of towers and palaces, it does not concern them. Said 
R. Ashi: J have prevented Matha Mehassia from being destroyed 
(as he had made the prayer-house and the college higher than 
other houses). But was it not destroyed later? Yea, but not 
for this sin. 

He also said: * It is better to be dependent on an Israelite 
than on an idolater; on an idolater than on a Persian; on a 
Persian schoolmant than on a scholar; on a scholar than on 
a widow or an orphan. 

Healso said: Rather any sickness than sickness of the bowels; 
rather any pain than pain of the heart; rather any disorder than 
a disorder in the head; rather any evil than a bad wife. 

Again he said : If all the seas were ink, if all the swamps were 
producing pens, if the whole expanse of the horizon were parch- 
ment, and all the men were scribes, the (thoughts that fill the) 
void of a ruler’s heart could not be written in full. Whence is 
this deduced ? Said R. Mesharsia: ‘‘ The heavens as to height 
and the earth as to depth, and the hearts of kings cannot be 
fathomed ”’ [Prov. xxv. 3]. 

‘* To read Shema,’’ etc. Was it not stated before that they 
need not be interrupted? This sentence applies to study, as 
we have learned in a Boraitha: ‘*‘ Scholars that are engaged in 
studying the Law must stop for the reading of Shema, but they 
need not stop for prayer.”’ Said R. Johanan: Such is the case 
with men like R. Simeon b. Yo’hai and his colleagues, for learn- 
ing was their profession; but men like ourselves must stop for 
prayer also. But have we not learned in a Boraitha: ‘‘ As 
(students) need not quit (their studies) for prayer, so they need 
not stop them for Shema’’? This applies only to the study of 





* These somewhat abstruse distinctions are made for the reason that a depend- 
ent of a scholar, orphan, or widow is liable to incur greater punishment for an injury 
done his master than were his master an Ishmaelite, Persian, etc. 

+ The title ‘‘ Habher ” is the exact equivalent of ‘‘ fellowship ” asa college position 
in our time ; we translate it ‘‘ schoolman.” 


TRACT SABBATH. 19 


the establishment of leap year; as R. Ada b. Ahba, and so also 
the sages of Hagrunia in the name of R. Elazar b. Zadok, de- 
clared: ‘‘ When we were engaged in fixing a leap year at Yabne, 
we did not quit (our work) either for Shema or for prayer.”’ 

MISHNA J//Z.: A tailor shall not go out with his needle 
when it is nearly dark on Friday, lest he forget and go out 
(carrying it about with him) after dark; nor a scribe with his 
pen; nor shall one search for vermin in his garments or read 
before the lamp-light (Friday night). Of a verity it is said, an 
instructor may follow the children when they read, but he shall 
not read himself (before the lamp-light). In a similar manner 
it is said that one afflicted with gonorrhcea should not eat from 
the same plate with a woman that has the same disease, lest 
they become accustomed to one another and come to sin. 

GEMARA: “ 4 tatlor shall not go out,’’ etc. Does not the 
Mishna mean when the needle is stuck in the garment? Nay, 
it treats of the case when (the tailor) holds it in his hand. 

Come and hear. ‘A tailor shall not go out with the needle 
sticking in his garment.’’ Does this not treat of the eve of the 
Sabbath? Nay, it treats of the Sabbath itself. 

But is there not another Boraitha: “‘ A tailor shall not go 
out with the needle sticking in his garment on Friday when it is 
nearly dark’’? This was taught according to R. Jehudah, who 
holds that a laborer (carrying a thing) after the manner of his 
profession is culpable; as we have learned in the following 
Tosephtha: ‘‘ A tailor shall not go out with his needle sticking 
in his garment; nor a carpenter with his ruler behind his ear; 
nor a cloth cleaner with the spanning cord behind his ear; nor 
a weaver with the stuffing cotton behind his ear; nor a dyer 
with samples around his neck; nor a money changer with the 
dinar in his ear. If, however, they did so, they are free, though 
they ought not to start it; sois the decree of R. Mair. R. Jehu- 
dah, however, says: The laborer only (going out) after the man- 
ner of his profession is culpable; but not common men.”’ 

In the school of R. Ishmael it was taught: ‘“‘ One may go 
out with the phylacteries on his head at twilight on the eve of 
Sabbath.”? Whyso? As Rabha b. R. Huna said: One must 
feel the phylacteries on his head at all times, and in consequence 
he will be reminded, through feeling the phylacteries, that he 
must remove them before the Sabbath. 

There is a Boraitha: A man must examine his garments on 
Friday evening, when it is getting dark, to see whether there is 


20 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


anything in them that must not be carried about on the Sab- 
bath. Said R. Joseph: This is an important ordinance con- 
cerning the Sabbath. 

‘“* One shall not search for vermin,’’ etc. Does it mean one 
shall not search for vermin in the day-time (of a Sabbath) lest 
he destroy any; and he shall not read before a lamp-light lest 
he snuff (the wick); or are both ordinances connected with each 
other so as to make the ordinance prohibiting the snuffing of 
the wick binding ? Come and hear. ‘‘ One shall not search for 
vermin nor read before the lamp-light.’’ What can we under- 
stand from this Boraitha better than from our Mishna? Come 
and hear another Boraitha: ‘‘ One shall not search before the - 
lamp-light; also, one shall not read before it.’’ These two 
ordinances are among the other established Halakhas in the 
attic of Hananiah b. Hyzkiyah b. Gorion. From this is to be 
inferred that both cases were prohibited for the same reason, 
that they may entail snuffing the wick. 

R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel said: One must not try to 
distinguish even between his own and his wife’s garments (before 
the lamp-light), Said Rabha: This is said only for the inhabitants 
of Ma’hoza,* but among the dwellers of rural places the garments 
can easily be distinguished. And even among the inhabitants of 
Ma’hoza, only the garments of old women cannot easily be dis- 
tinguished from those of the men, but not of young women. 

The rabbis taught: One shall not search for vermin in the 
street out of self-respect. In the same wise, R. Jehudah or R. 
Ne’hemiah taught that one shall not vomit in the street out of 
self-respect. The rabbis taught: One who searches his gar- 
ments and finds a louse shall not crack it, but simply rub it with 
his fingers and throw it away (on the Sabbath). Says R. Huna: 
This should also be done even on week days, out of self-respect. 

We have learned, R. Simeon b. Elazar said: ‘‘ One shall not 
kill vermin on the Sabbath.’’ So said Beth Shamai; Beth Hil- 
lel, however, allowed this. R. Simeon b. Elazar used also to 
say in the name of R. Simeon b. Gamaliel: ‘‘ One is not allowed 
to negotiate marriage engagements for children, nor to engage 
teachers or artisan masters for children, nor to pay visits of con- 
dolence to mourners, nor to visit the sick on the Sabbath. Such 
is the decree of Beth Shamai; Beth Hillel, however, allows all 
this.’’ 





* Large cities where the men are effeminate and wear garments like the women, 





TRACT SABBATH. 21 


The rabbis taught: If one comes to visit the sick on the Sab- 
bath, he shall say: ‘‘ It is Sabbath and we are not to cry, but 
relief is drawing nigh.’’ R. Mair said, one should say: ‘‘ The 
Sabbath (if respected) may bring mercy.’’ Rabbi Jehudah said: 
‘* May the Omnipotent have mercy with thee and toward the 
‘sick of Israel.’’ R. Jose said: “‘ May the Omnipotent bestow 
mercy on thee amongst the sick of Israel.’’ Shebhna the Jeru- 
salemite when he entered (a sick-room on the Sabbath) said, 
‘* Shalom ’’; on leaving he said: ‘‘ To cry! it is Sabbath; never- 
theless, relief is nigh’’; ‘‘ As His mercies are great,’’ and ** Rest 
ye in peace.”’ 

According to whom is what R. Hanina said: ‘“ He who has 
a sick person in the house should include him (in his prayers) 
amongst the sick in Israel’’? It was in accordance with R. 
Jose. R. Hanina also said that it was with difficulty that the 
rabbis allowed visits of condolence to be paid to mourners and 
to visit the sick on a Sabbath. Rabba b. b. Hana said: When 
I accompanied R. Eliezer while visiting the sick, I sometimes 
heard him say (in Hebrew): ‘‘ May the Omnipotent mind thee 
in peace,’” and sometimes (in Aramaic): ‘‘ May the Merciful 
remember thee in peace.’” How could he do this? Did not 
R. Jehudah say: ‘‘ One should never pray for what he needs in 
the Aramaic language’’? And also R. Johanan: “‘ The angels 
of service do not listen to one’s prayer in the Aramaic tongue, 
for they know not that language.’ The case of a sick person 
is different, as Shekhina itselfis with him. (This will be explained 
in Tract Nedarin in the proper place.) 

“© One shall not read before the lamp-light.’’ WRabba said: It 
is the same even if the lamp is placed two (men’s) heights (from 
the ground); even two stories high, or even if it is on top of ten 
houses, one above the other. ‘‘ One shall not read,’’ but two 
may? Have we not learned, ‘‘ Neither one nortwo’’? Said R. 
Elazar: This presents no difficulty. Our Mishna treats of two 
reading one subject; and there it treats of two reading different 
subjects. Said R. Huna: Around the hearth-fire even ten per- 
sons shall not read together. Rabha, however, said: A promi- 
nent man may read, as he would not degrade himself by stirring 
the fire. 

An objection was raised from the following: One should not 
read before a lamp-light, lest he snuff the wick. Said R. Ish- 
mael b. Elisha: ‘* I will read and not snuff it.’’ Once he actually 
read and was tempted to snuff the wick. And he exclaimed: 


22 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


‘* How great is the saying of the sages, that one should not read 
before a lamp-light.’’ R. Nathan said: He actually snuffed the 
wick and noted in his diary: ‘‘ I, Ishmael b. Elisha, have read 
before the lamp on Sabbath, and have snuffed the wick. When 
the holy temple shall be rebuilt, I will bring a fat sin-offering.’’ 
Said R. Aba: With R. Ishmael b. Elisha it is different, for 
while studying the Law he always considered himself common. 

There is one Boraitha: A servant may examine cups and 
dishes (to see if they are clean, before the lamp); and another, 
that he may not. This presents no difficulty. The former 
treats of a servant in permanent engagement;* the latter of 
one who performs occasional service. And if you wish, it may 
be said that both Boraithas apply to a permanent servant: the 
latter in the case of a lamp which is fed with oil, the former in 
the case where it is fed with naphtha. (Naphtha emits a bad 
odor; he will therefore not be tempted to touch it.) 

The schoolmen propounded a question: May a servant that 
is not permanently engaged (examine his utensils) before a lamp 
fed with oil ? 

Said Rabh: The rule is laid down (that he may), but we do 
not practise it. KR. Jeremiah b. Aba, however, said: So is the 
rule, and so we practise. 

Once R. Jeremiah b. Aba took (his Friday night meal) at the 
house of R. Assi. His servant (R. Jeremiah’s retainer, who 
was at the time doing occasional service in R. Assi’s house) pro- 
ceeded to examine (the dishes) before the lamp. Said the wife 
of R. Assi (to her husband): ‘‘ You, my master, do not approve 
of this.’’ ‘‘ Let him be,’’ answered R. Assi; ‘‘ he acts accord- 
ing to the opinion of his master.’”’ 

‘“* Of a verity they said, an tnstructor,’’ etc. Was it not said, 
‘He may see’’? For what purpose should he do this but to 
read? Nay; he should see in order to watch the sequence of 
paragraphs. So also said Rabba b. Samuel: ‘‘ He may arrange 
the sequence of paragraphs.’’ Consequently, may he not read 
the paragraphs through ? Would this not oppose the statement 
of R. Simeon b. Gamaliel, who said: ‘‘ Children in their rabbi’s 
house used to arrange their paragraphs and read before the 
lamp-light’’ ? With children the case is different; out of fear 
for their master they will not be led to adjust. 

MISHNA J/V.: And these are some of the regulations 


’ 





* A servant in permanent engagement is more careful about his dishes, for fear 
that he may lose his position. He is therefore more apt to adjust the wick. 


TRACT SABBATH. 23 


enacted in the attic of Hananiah b. Hyzkiyah b. Gorion, when 
the rabbis came to visit him. They called the roll and found 
that the disciples of Shamai were more numerous than those of 
Hillel, and they enforced eighteen regulations on that day. 

GEMARA: Said Abayi to R. Joseph: Does the expression 
“and these,”’ etc., refer to the things that were mentioned, or 
is ‘‘ these’’ used with reference to things to be mentioned far- 
ther on? Come and hear. ‘‘ One shall not search for vermin 
or read before a lamp-light; aud these are some of the regula- 
tions,’’ etc. From this it is obvious that ‘‘ and these”’ is the 
correct version. 

The rabbis taught: The ‘‘ Roll of Fasts’’ was written by 
Hananiah b. Hyzkiyah and his company, for they thought with 
fondness of the troubles (which their race had experienced). 
Said R. Simeon b. Gamaliel: We also think with fondness of 
the troubles; but what shall we do? If we were to record (all 
the troubles our race has experienced since that time) we would 
never finish. It may also be said: A fool never feels trouble, 
or (more pointedly) a dead member on a living body feels not 
the lancet.* 

MISHNA V.: The Beth Shamai said: Ink, dye material, or 
fodder (for animals) shall not be put into water (on Friday) 
unless there is still time for them to soak through while it 
is day. The Beth Hillel, however, permits this. The Beth 
Shamai prohibits putting bundles of linen thread (to bleach) 
into the oven unless there is sufficient time left for them to 
become heated through while it is yet day, or wool into a dye- 
kettle unless there is still time for it to be soaked through the 
same day. The Beth Hillel permits this. The Beth Shamai 
says: Traps shall not be set for animals and birds, or nets for 
fishes (on Friday), unless there is still time for them to be caught 
before sunset. The Beth Hillel permits this. The Beth Shamai 
says: One shall not sell anything to a Gentile (on Friday) or 
help him load his animal, or help him shoulder a burden unless 
he (the Gentile) can reach (with his load) the nearest place while 
it is yet day. The Beth Hillel permits this. The Beth Shamai 





* The Gemara discusses here the eighteen precautionary measures which were 
enacted in the attic referred to, and tried also to find them out, as what they were is 
not mentioned in the Mishna at all. As none of them, except the two mentioned in 
the Mishna (which is not discussed at all), belong to Sabbath, we have omitted the 
whole discussion. However, we have named all of them in the appendix to this 
tract [Vol. II., pp. 381-390, g. v.], and we have shown that all of these enactments 
were political and of great necessity at that time. 


24 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


says: Hides shall not be given to a tanner nor clothes to a Gen- 
tile washer (on a Friday) unless there is still sufficient time left 
for him (the Gentile) to finish it while it is day. The perform- 
ance of all these acts of labor heretofore mentioned was per- 
mitted by the Beth Hillel (on Friday) while the sun was still 
shining. Rabbi Simeon b. Gamaliel said: At my father’s house 
it was the custom to give out white clothes to a Gentile washer 
three days before the Sabbath. Both schools, however, agree 


that the presses may be put on olives and grapes in the press- | 


pits (as long as it is still daytime). 

GEMARA: Who is the Tana that maintains that putting 
water on ink constitutes the final work on it? Said R. Joseph: 
(It is Rabbi of the following Boraitha: ‘‘ If one put flour (in a 
vessel) and another one put water on it, the latter is culpable 
(of the act of kneading); so is the decree of Rabbi.” R. Jose, 
however, says that one is not culpable until he kneads it. 

The rabbis taught: At twilight on the eve of Sabbath one 
may make an opening in a spring, so that the water run into 
the garden the whole day (of the Sabbath). He may also put 
smoking incense underneath garments, so that they hold the 
fragrance the whole day. It is also allowed to put burning sul- 
phur under enamelled vessels, so that its smoke work on the 
paints the whole Sabbath day. It is also allowed for one to 
put a balm on the eye anda plaster on a wound, so that the 
healing process continue throughout the Sabbath; it is prohib- 
ited, however, to put grain into a water-mill, unless there is yet 
enough daytime left for it to be ground. Why so? Said R. 
Joseph: Because one is obliged to give rest even to tools on 
Sabbath. 

Now, since it was said that the resting of tools is obligatory 
according to the decision of the Beth Hillel, why did they per- 
mit putting sulphur and incense to smoke, or linen thread to 
bleach during the Sabbath? Because no act was being done, 
and (the tools were practically) at rest. But do not traps set for 
animals, birds, and nets for fishes work? Why, then, did they 
allow these? Here, too, they treated only of fishers’ rods and 
traps, which do no work (but into which animals work themselves). 

Now, as R. Oshia has declared in the name of R. Assi, that 
only the Beth Shamai holds that there is a biblical obligation 
for the resting of tools, but not the Beth Hillel, all the acts 
enumerated above are permitted by the latter, even in the event 
of the tools performing work. 


a — 


TRACT SABBATH. 25 


Who is the Tana of what the rabbis taught anonymously as 
follows: ‘“ A woman shall not put dried lentils and peas into 
the oven on Friday when it is getting dark and leave them there 
(to get soft); and if she needs them for after the Sabbath she 
shall not use them, unless she waits the length of time re- 
quired to cook them afresh. In the same wise a baker shall not 
put a vessel with water in the oven on Friday when it is getting 
dark; and if he needs (the hot water) for after the Sabbath, he 
shall not use it unless he waits the length of time it would 
require to boil it afresh.’’ Shall we assume that this is in 
accordance with the Beth Shamai, but not with Beth Hillel 2? It 
may also be in accordance with the Beth Hillel, as the pro- 
hibitions were made as precautionary measures lest one stir the 
coals. If such is the case, the burning of incense and sulphur 
(as mentioned in our Mishna) should also be prohibited for the 
same reason. There is to be feared that the coals might be 
stirred, while here is no fear of that, as when the coals are 
stirred smoke may arise and injure the enamel or the garments. 
In the case of the linen thread also, no precautionary measure 
was necessary, because the draught caused by the admission of 
air into the oven would prove injurious to the thread, and there- 
fore one would not open the oven to stir the fire. Then let the 
placing of wool into a (dye) kettle be prohibited as a precaution- 
ary measure? The Mishna treats of a kettle that stands at 
some distance from the fire; so says Samuel. Still, the appre- 
hension exists that he may stir the dye. Nay, we speak of 
a kettle whose cover is sealed with clay. 

Now that the master said that the prohibitions (of the Bo- 
raitha) are only precautionary measures, to prevent one from 
stirring the coals, a cold pot may be put in the oven on Friday 
when it is getting dark. Why so? Because the victuals in it 
cannot be used the same evening, and he (the cook) will never 
think of stirring the coals. 

“One shall not sell a thing to a Gentile,’ etc. The rabbis 
taught: The Beth Shamai said: One shall not sell a thing to 
a Gentile, nor lend it to him, nor help him carry it, nor lend 
him nor present him with any money on Sabbath eve unless 
there is time enough for the recipient to reach his house before 
night comes on. The Beth Hillel said (all this may be done) if 
there is time enough to reach his house at the wall of the city 
where he lives. R. Aqiba, however, says: It is sufficient if there 
is time enough for the Gentile to leave the house of the Jew. 


26 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Said R. Jose b. Jehudah: ‘‘ R. Aqiba contends that his teach- 
ing does not contradict that of the Beth Hillel, but merely 
explains the latter’s real intent.”’ 

The rabbis taught: One may put down eatables on his own 
grounds for a Gentile (on the Sabbath). If the latter takes the 
eatables and carries them off, he need not prevent him. 

The rabbis taught: One shall not hire out his tools to a Gen- 
tile on Friday, but he may do so on Wednesday or Thursday 
(even if he knows positively that the Gentile will use them on 
Sabbath). Inthe same manner, it is prohibited to transmit a 
letter by a Gentile on Friday, but it may be sent on Wednesday 
or Thursday. It was said of R. Jose the Priest, according to 
others the Pious, that his handwriting was never found in the 
hands of a Gentile (for fear that it might be carried on the 
Sabbath). 

The rabbis taught: One shall not send a letter by a Gentile 
on Friday unless he stipulated a certain sum for the delivery. 
If such a stipulation was not made, the Beth Shamai says it 
must not be delivered, unless the messenger has time to reach 
the house in which it is to be delivered (before sunset); the 
Beth Hillel, however, maintains: He may do it if the messenger 
has time to reach the house nearest to the wall of the city 
where the letter is to be delivered. Was it not taught at first 
that ‘‘ one shall not send’’ at all? This presents no difficulty. 
In the first part the case treats of a town which has no post- 
office; in the latter part the Boraitha speaks of a town which 
has one. 

The rabbis taught: One shall not embark on a vessel less 
than three days before the Sabbath. This is the case if one 
goes (to sea) on private business, but if he goes for a meritori- 
ous act, he may do so. He may make a stipulation with the 
owner of the boat that it shall rest on Sabbath, although he is 
aware that he will not do so; so is the decree of Rabbi. R. 
Simeon b. Gamaliel, however, maintains that such a stipulation 
is not necessary. To travel from Tyre to Zidon (a journey of 
a few hours) one may embark even on Friday. 

The rabbis taught: Siege shall not be laid to Gentile cities 
less than three days before the Sabbath, but when the siege is 
laid it need not be interrupted. So also Shamai used to say: 
It is written, ‘‘ until it is brought down’’ [Deut. xx. 20], z.¢., 
even on a Sabbath day. 

‘“ R. Simeon b. Gamaliel said,’’ etc. There is a Boraitha: 





TRACT SABBATH. a7 


R. Zadok said: ‘“‘ It was the custom at the house of Rabban 
Gamaliel to give white clothes to the washer three days before 
the Sabbath, but colored clothes even on a Friday.’’ From 
this we have learned that it is harder to wash white clothes than 
colored ones. Abayi gave colored clothes to the washer and 
asked: How much wilt thou take for washing them? ‘‘ As 
much as for white clothes,’’ answered the washer. Said Abayi: 
““ The rabbis have preceded thee with their declaration ’’ (that 
white clothes are harder to wash). 

“* Both schools agree,’’ etc. Why did the school of Shamai 
enforce precautionary measures in all the previous cases, but in . 
the case of wine and oil presses they did not do so? They pro- 
hibited the performance of such labor as involves the obligation 
of a sin-offering, if performed (unintentionally) on the Sabbath, 
or on a Friday when approaching darkness; but for the putting 
of press beams on grapes or olives, which does not involve the 
obligation of a sin-offering even if done on the Sabbath, the 
precautionary measure was not necessary. 

From this it may be inferred that work which continues by 
itself may well be started (late on Friday).* Who is the Tana 
that holds so? Said R. Jose: R. Ishmael of the Mishna 
(Ediath, II. 7): ‘‘ Garlic, unripe grapes, and green grain-stalks 
which were crushed (on Friday) while yet day, may be put 
under pressure at sunset; so is the decree of R. Ishmael. 
R. Aqiba, however, says: ‘‘ It must not be done.’’ R. Elazar 
(b. Pedath), however, said that the Tana in question is R. Elazar 
(b. Samoa) of the following Mishna: ‘‘ Honeycombs that were 
crushed on Friday shall not be put in the press (at sunset), so 
that the honey run out by itself; R. Elazar, however, permits 
it.’ R. Jose b. Hanina has practised in accordance with the 
theory of R. Ishmael. 

The oil and the covers of the small oil-presses Rabh pro- 
hibits to handle on the Sabbath. Samuel, however, permits it. 
The same is the case with reed-cloth; Rabh prohibits, and Sam- 
uel permits (to handle). Covers that are used on board of a 
vessel to cover the deck Rabh prohibits, and Samuel permits the 
handling of. 

R. Na’hman said: ‘‘ A goat that is kept for its milk, a sheep 
that is kept for its wool, a hen that is kept for its eggs, an ox 





* Without requiring the labor of man when once started, as is the case with wine 
and oil presses, in which case the beams, once put on grapes or olives, force the fluids 
to run down of their own accord. 


28 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


that is kept for the plough, and dates that are put up for the 
market, are prohibited for use at a biblical feast,’’ according to 
Rabh; Samuel, however, said it was permitted. The point of 
their differing is the law of Muktza, in which R. Jehudah and 
R. Simeon differ. (It is explained farther on that, according to 
the latter, no Mukiza exists.) 

A disciple in "Harta of Argis* decided cases according to 
R. Simeon’s teaching, and R. Hamnunah put him under the 
ban. But have we not adopted the opinion of R. Simeon? 
Yea, but ’Harta was within the jurisdiction of Rabh, and he 
(the disciple) should not have done as he did against Rabha’s 
teaching. 

MISHNA VZ.: Meats, onions, and eggs shall not be put to 
roasting on the eve of Sabbath, unless they can be done while 
it is yet day. ; 

Bread shall not be put in the oven or a cake upon live coals, 
unless the crust can be formed while it is yet day. R. Elazar 
says it is enough if the bottom crust is formed. The Passover 
sacrifice may be turned around in the oven (on Friday) when 
it is getting dark. In the heating-house of (the sanctuary) 
the fire was fed at eventide. The fires in the rural districts 
may be fed until the flames envelop the greatest part (of 
the fuel). R. Judha says: ‘‘ Where coals were already burn- 
ing more fuel may be added, even when Sabbath is quite near 
at hand.’’ 

GEMARA: When should such victuals be considered done ? 
Said R. Elazar in the name of Rabh: ‘‘ When they are done like 
the victuals of Ben Drostai.’’+ As we have learned in a Bo- 
raitha: Hananiah says all victuals that are done like the victuals 
of Ben Drostai may be left upon the hearth, even if the fire in 
the hearth is not stirred up and full of ashes. 

‘* Bread shall not be put,’’ etc. The schoolmen propounded 
a question: (‘‘ Does R. Elazar speak of) the crust that is formed 
near the wall of the oven, or the crust formed (on the side of 
the loaf, that is turned) to the fire ?”’ 

Come and hear. R. Elazar says: ‘‘It is sufficient if the 
surface is crusted, which lies close to the wall of the oven.”’ 





* Argis was the man who built the city of ’Hartaand R. Hamnunah lived in that 
city. The cave in which he is buried is still in existence there. So I have found 
written in an answer of a Gaon. (Rashi.) 

+ A notorious highwayman, who could never stay in one place long enough to cook 
his meals, and was wont to do only the third part of cooking they required. 


BOD ee ee eee ee a ae 


Oe gE ee gee Se pe ee ee ee ee 











TRACT SABBATH. 29 


** The Passover sacrifice may be turned,’’ etc. Why so? Be- 
cause a company (when preparing a sacrifice in the temple) is 
very cautious. 

But if this were not the case, would it not be allowed ? Has 
not the master said: A (sacrificial) kid may be used, well done 
or not well done? Aye, but in that case it is cut in pieces; in 
our case it could not be cut in pieces.* : 

‘* The fire in the heating-house,”’ etc. Why so? Whence is 
this deduced? Said R. Huna: It is written [Ex. xxxv. 3]: 
‘* Ve shall not kindle any fire throughout your habitations upon 
the Sabbath day.’”’ Your habitations excluded the sanctuary. 
R. Hisda opposed: If it is so, then they may do so on Sab- 
bath itself; therefore he explains thus: The cited verse ex- 
cludes only the parts of the members which are already upon 
the altar, and the reason of our Mishna is because priests are 
very careful. 

‘* In the rural districts,’’ etc. What does ‘‘the greatest 
part’’ mean? According to Rabh: ‘‘ The greatest part of each 
piece’’; and according to Samuel: ‘‘ Until no more small wood 
is needed to make the heap burn.’’ R. Hyya taught the fol- 
lowing Boraitha in support of R. Samuel: ‘‘ The flame should 
continue rising by itself, and not by the assistance of anything 
else.’” And to only one log of wood? —until the fire catches most 
of its thickness; and according to others, the most of its circum- 
ference, was the decision of Rabh. Said R. Papa: To comply 
with both views just mentioned it is right that the fire should 
catch both, the most of its thickness and the greatest part of its 
circumference. However, regarding this law Tanaim of the fol- 
lowing Boraitha differ. R. Hyya says: Until it is so burned 
that it is unfit for any carpenter’s work. R. Judah b. Bathyra 
says: Until the fire catches both sides. And although this can- 
not be substantiated by evidence (from Scripture), there is a hint 
of this—viz.: “‘ Both ends are consumed by the fire and the 
inside is scorched; is it fit for any work ?’’ [Ez. xv. 4]. 

It was taught: R. Kahana said: Reeds, if they are tied 
together, must (have enough daytime on Friday) to burn over 
half; if not tied together, less is sufficient. Granum must have 
enough time for the fire to catch their greater part; if they are 
put in a fire-pot, they need not. R. Joseph taught four sub- 





* See Ex. xii. 9, 46, where it is explicitly ordained that the paschal lamb should 
not be dismembered, and no bone should be broken. 


30. THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


stances (used as fuel) need not (have time until the fire catches) 
the greater part—viz.: pitch, sulphur, cheese, and running fats. 
In a Boraitha it was taught that straw and (wood) shavings 
belong to the same category. R. Johanan said that the same is 
the case with fuel in Babylon. What does it mean? Accord- 
ing to R. Joseph bast, and according to Rami b. Aba branches. 


APPENDIX. 
[Explanatory to p. 8, line 2 (Erubhin, p. 25).] 


There is a Boraitha in addition to the last Mishna of Chap. 
IX., ibid., p. 226, as follows: ‘‘ More than this said R. Jehudah: 
“He who has two houses, one on each side of public ground, 
may add to each a beam or a side beam (for a sign), and this 
allows him to carry things from one house into the other.’ To 
which the rabbis answered that such an erubhk does not suffice 
for public ground.”’ (The reason of R. Jehudah’s statement is 
that biblically two partitions suffice to turn premises of public 
ground into private ground, with which the rabbis do not 
agree. )* 





* This Boraitha was omitted in Tract Erubhin. Here, however, to render the 
above-mentioned passage clearer for the reader, we deem it necessary to translate it. 





CHAPTER. 11, 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE SABBATH AND ’HANUKAH LIGHT. 


{ 


MISHNA J.: What shall and what shall not be used for 
lighting (the Sabbath light)? The light shall not be made with 
(wicks of) cedar bast, raw flax, silk fibre, weeds growing upon 
the water, and ship-moss.* Nor shall pitch, wax, cotton-seed 
oil, oil of rejected heave-offerings,+ fat from the tail of a sheep, 
and tallow be used. 

Nahum the Modait says melted tallow may be used for light- 
ing; the schoolmen, however, prohibit melted and raw tallow 
alike. 

GEMARA: Rabbin and Abayi were sitting before Rabbanah 
Ne’hemiah, the brother of the Exilarch (after the death of his 
brother he became Exilarch under the name Ne’hemiah the 
Second), and they saw that he was dressed in a mantle of 
petaga (raw silk). Said Rabbin to Abayi: ‘‘ This is called in 
our Mishna &hlakh.’’ +t And he answered: ‘‘In our city it is 
called Shira Peranda (ferandinis).’’ The same (Rabbin and 
Abayi) happened to be in the valley of Tamruritha, and they 
saw a kind of willow, and Rabbin said to Abayi: “‘ This is edan 
mentioned in our Mishna’’; and he rejoined: “‘ This is only 
common wood; how could a wick be made of it?’’ He peeled 
off one of them and showed him a kind of woolly substance 
between the bark and the stem. 





* Moss springing up on the hulk or boards of a ship. 

+ The text reads ‘‘ oil for burning,’’ the full explanation of which is given in the 
Talmud farther on. We have paraphrased the term to convey the sense to the 
English reader. 

¢ The terms in the Mishna, with which it must not be lighted, are expressed in a 
mixture of Hebrew, Greek, and Roman names, The Gemara then discusses what is 
meant by the names, and, probably, some of the Babylonian Amoraim did not 
understand Greek or Roman, as is seen from the fact that Rabbin did not know 
of the name mefaxa when he saw it on the body of Ne’hemiah, and exclaimed only, 
‘* This is meant by the expression £4/akh”; and Abayi answered in broken Roman, 
Paranda. We, as we have translated the names into English, have omitted the 
whole discussion in the first edition. In this second edition, however, we are dis- 
posed not to omit at least the historical facts, 


32 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


The rabbis taught: All that which was prohibited for the 
Sabbath lamp may be used in fires that are kept up for heat or 
even for constant light, whether (such fires are built) upon the 
ground or in the hearth; as the materials are prohibited only 
for use as wicks for the Sabbath lamp. 

Rabba said: The wicks which the rabbis forbade the use of 

in the Sabbath lamp are prohibited because they give a flicker- 
ing light. The oily substances were prohibited because they 
do not adhere to the wick. 
_ Abayi questioned Rabba: Would it be permitted to mix oil 
with these prohibited fats and then use them for the Sabbath 
lamp? Or is even that prohibited as a precaution lest one use 
those fats without the addition of oil? Rabba answered: It is 
prohibited. Whyso? Because they do not give a right light. 

Abayi objected to him from the following: ‘‘ R. Simeon b. 
Gamaliel said: ‘In my father’s house they wound the wick 
around a nut and lighted it’; hence you see that it may be 
lighted.’’ Said Rabba: ‘‘ Instead of contradicting me with the 
saying of R. Simeon b. Gamaliel, support my view with the 
decision of the first Tana’’ (of our Mishna). This would not 
do, as the record of an act is incontrovertible. Sz¢z// the record 
of the master remains contradictory. The Mishna is not com- 
plete, and should read thus: ‘‘ If one has wound a thing that 
may be used (as a wick) around a thing that may not be used, 
he is not permitted to light it. This is the case when the two 
(substances) are to serve the purpose of a wick, but if the pro- 
hibited substance is used merely to support the permissible (the 
combination) is allowed, as so said R. Simeon b. Gamaliel, ‘ In 
my father’s house,’ ’’ etc. 

But, after all, it is not so. Did not R. Beruna teach in the 
name of Rabh: To melted tallow or fish fat one may add some 
oil and use it for the Sabbath lamp? These substances adhere 
to the wick in themselves. But the rabbis had prohibited 
melted tallow or fish fat as a precaution, lest (if the melted sub- 
stance be allowed) one use it raw also for light. Why did they 
not enact the prohibition to use these substances with the ad- 
mixture of some oil as a precaution lest they be used without 
the admixture of oil? This itself is a precautionary measure; 
shall we enact another as a safeguard to it ? 

R. Huna said: The wicks and fats which the sages have 
prohibited for the Sabbath lamp cannot be used for the ’Hanu- 
kah lamp either on the Sabbath night or on week nights. Said 





TRACT SABBATH. 33 


Rabba: The reason of R. Huna’s theory is because he holds 
that if the (’Hanukah lamp) is extinguished (by accident) it 
must be relighted, and also that its light may be used to work 
by. R. Hisda, however, maintains that it can be fed (with 
these fats) on week nights, but not on the Sabbath night. Be- 
cause he holds that if it is extinguished, one is not in duty 
bound (to light it again), and as long as it burns it may be used 
to work by. 

R. Zera in the name of R. Mathna, according to others in 
the name of Rabh, said: The wicks and fats which the sages 
prohibited for the Sabbath lamp may be used for the ’Hanukah 
lamp, both during the week and on the Sabbath night. Said 
R. Jeremiah: The reason of Rabh’s decision is because he holds 
that if it is extinguished he need not relight it, and its light 
is prohibited to be used.’’ The rabbis declared this before 
Abayi, in the name of R. Jeremiah, and he would not accept 
it; when Rabbin came from Palestine he declared the same 
before Abayi in the name of R. Johanan, and he accepted it and 
said: ‘‘ Had I been worthy, I would have accepted this teaching 
before.”’ 

It is said in the name of Rabh: ‘“‘If it is extinguished, it is 
not needed to relight it.’’ Is this not contradicted by the fol- 
lowing: ‘‘ The proper ordinance is for (the ’Hanukah light) to 
last from sunset until footsteps are no longer heard in the 
street’’?* Does this not mean that if extinguished it must be 
relighted ? Nay, the time appointed is only for the purpose of 
determining when the light is to be lit, or a light should be 
made which will last for the appointed time. 

‘‘ Until footsteps are no longer heard,’’ etc. Up to what 
time is this? Said Rabba b. b. Hana in the name of R. Jo- 
hanan: ‘‘ Up to the time when the steps of the Tarmuditest , 
are heard no more.’’ 

The rabbis taught: The law of "Hanukah demands that 
every man should light one lamp for himself and his household. 
Those who seek to fulfil it well have a lamp lit for every mem- 
' ber of the household. Those who seek to fulfil the law in the 
best possible manner should light according to Beth Shamai the 
first night eight flames, and every following night one flame 





* The ceasing of footsteps in Talmudical language implies the time when people 
have already retired. 
¢ Vendors of shavings and small wood, which are bought for the hearth-fire in 
the evening. 
VOL. 1.—3. 


34 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


less. And according to Beth Hillel the reverse—the first 
night one lamp, and be increased by one on each succeeding 
night. Said Rabba b. b. Hana in the name of R. Johanan: 
** There were two sages in Zidon; one did according to the de- 
cision of Shamai’s school, and gave the reason that the ’Hanu- 
kah lamp is to be lit in the same manner as the sacrifices of the 
feast were offered,* and the other according to the school of 
Hillel, with the reason that holy actions should show (emblem- 
ize) increase and not reduction. 

The rabbis taught: It is a merit to put the "Hanukah lamp 
on the outside door of the house; and he who lives in an attic 
puts it in a window that opens into the street. In time of 
danger, however,t it is sufficient if the lights are on the table. 
Said Rabha: In the latter case another light is required to 
work by; but if there is a hearth-fire in the house, it is not 
necessary. However, if the man is of high standing (and not 
in the habit of working by the hearth-light) he must have 
another lamp. 

What is Hanukah? The rabbis taught: “‘ On the twenty- 
fifth day of Kislev Hanukah commences and lasts eight days, 
on which lamenting (in commemoration of the dead) and fast- 
ing are prohibited. When the Hellenists entered the sanctuary, 
they defiled all the oil that was found there. When the gov- 
ernment of the House of Asmoneans prevailed and conquered 
them, oil was sought (to feed the holy lamp in the sanctuary) 
and only one vial was found with the seal of the high priest 
intact. The vial contained sufficient oil for one day only, but 
a miracle occurred, and it fed the holy lamp eight days in suc- 
cession. These eight days were the following year established 
as days of good cheer, on which psalms of praise and acknowl- 
edgment (of God’s wonders) were to be recited. 

R. Kahana said: R. Nathan b. Manyomi in the name of 
R. Tanhum lectured: ‘‘ A ’Hanukah lamp becomes disqualified 
if it is put higher than twenty ells (from the ground), just like 
a Sukkah (booth) and like the side beam of an alley.”’ 

Rabba said: The merit of the ’Hanukah lamp is that it be 
put within a span of the house door. Andon which side? R. 
A’ha b. Rabha said to the right, R. Samuel of Diphti said to 





* The sacrifices of the Feast of Booths were decreased in number each succeeding 
day. See Numbers xxix. 13, 17, 23, 25, 29, 32. 

+ Time of danger is used here to designate the time when a prohibitive order 
against lights is issued by the local government. 


eee ee ee ee ee 


TRACT SABBATH. 35 


the left (of the entrance). And the Halakha prevails that it 
should be placed to the left of the entrance, so that the ’Hanu- 
kah light be on one side and the Mezuzah* on the other side of 
the door. 

R. Jehudah in the name of R. Assi said: It is not allowed 
to count money by the Hanukah light. When this was cited 
before Samuel, he said: ‘‘ Is there any holiness in the light ?”’ 
R. Joseph retorted: Is there any holiness in the blood of an 
animal? and yet have we not learned in a Boraitha: It is 
written: ‘‘ Then shall pour out the blood . . . and cover 
it’? . . . ([Lev. xvii. 13]. From this we infer that he must 
cover it with the same hand it was shed with, but not with his 
foot, in order that the fulfilment of the commandment should not 
be treated with lack of reverence. In our case, too, the light must 
not be used for anything, in order that the compliance with an 
ordinance should not evince a lack of reverence. 

R. Joshua b. Levi was questioned: May the fruits, hung up 
in the Sukkah for ornamentation, be used during the seven days 
of the feast ? He answered: Even to the ’Hanukah light a law 
was passed prohibiting the counting of money. Said R. Joseph: 
‘“Lord of Abraham!’’ Here he connected a law that was en- 
acted (by the ancient masters) with one that was not discussed 
by them. The law concerning the Sukkah was biblical, that 
concerning "Hanukah was not biblical but rabbinical. There- 
fore said R. Joseph: The precedent of all these cases is the law 
concerning the blood (which was cited above). 

It was taught: Rabh said: It is not allowed to light one 
"Hanukah light with the other; Samuel permits this. Rabh 
prohibited Tzitzith (show-threads) to be taken out of one gar- 
ment and put into another; Samuel permits also this. He also 
said that the Halakha does not prevail in accordance with R. 
Simeon regarding dragging across the floor (which will be ex- 
plained farther on); and Samuel maintains it does.t 

Said Abayi: ‘“ My master followed the decisions of Rabh in 
all questions except the three mentioned above, which he 
decided according to Samuel.”’ 





* “Mezuzah,” door-post, technical name for the writing which was to be placed 
on the door-post by the command of Deut. vi.g and elsewhere. The rabbis decreed 
that this was to be placed to the right of the entrance. 

+ The different contentions given above may seem somewhat out of place ; how- 
ever, they are cited merely to show the differences of opinion existing among the 
different schools and sages, 


36 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


One of the rabbis in the presence of R. Ada b. Ahba said: 
‘* Rabh’s reason for prohibiting these acts was to prevent irrev- 
erence in the compliance with the law.’’ Said R. Ada to the 
scholars present: ‘‘ Hear him not; Rabh’s reason was to pre- 
vent stinginess in the fulfilment of laws.’’ And what is the 
difference between the two? It is in the lighting of one’Hanu- 
kah lamp with another. He who says that irreverence was the 
reason cannot prohibit this; but he who holds stinginess to be 
the reason, prohibits even this rightfully. 

How is this question to be decided? Said R. Huna b. R. 
Joshua: ‘* Let us see whether the act of lighting the lamp con- 
stitutes merit, or whether it is the act of putting it in its proper 
place’’; this question having been already propounded by the 
schoolmen (the answer, when given, will serve for the above 
also). 

Come then and hear the following: R. Joshua b. Levi says: 
‘‘A lantern (that was lit for "Hanukah on Friday night) and 
kept burning the whole following day must, at the close of the 
Sabbath, be extinguished and then relighted.’’ Now if we say 
that the lighting constitutes compliance with the command- 
ment, this teaching is correct; but if we say that the placing of 
the lamp in its proper place constitutes the merit, it should be 
said: ‘‘ It should be extinguished, raised up, put in its proper 
place, and then lit.’” And also, since we pronounce the bene- 
diction, ‘‘ Blessed art Thou, etc., who hast commanded us to 
light the "Hanukah lamp,’’ it becomes clearly apparent the 
lighting constitutes compliance. And so it is. Now that we 
come to the conclusion that the act of lighting constitutes the 
merit, it is understood that if this was done by a deaf-mute, an 
idiot, or a minor, the act is not valid; a woman, however, may 
surely light it, as R. Joshua b. Levi said: ‘‘ Women are in duty 
bound to light the "Hanukah lamp, for they were included in 
miracle.”’ 

R. Shesheth said: A guest (at a stranger’s house) is obliged 
to light the Hanukah lamp. Said R. Zera: When I was study- 
ing at the school of Rabh, I contributed my share towards main- 
taining and lighting the lamp with mine host. Since Iam mar- 
ried, I say, I surely need not light it now, for it is lit for me at 
my house. 

R. Joshua b. Levi said: ‘‘ All fats are good for the ’Hanukah 
lamp, but olive oil is the best.’’ Abayi said: ‘‘ My master always 
sought for poppy-seed oil, because, said he, it burns slowly (and 


TRACT SABBATH. ; 37 


the light lasts longer), but when he heard the saying of R. Joshua 
b. Levi, he sought for olive oil, for that gives a clearer light.”’ 

Hyya b. Ashi in the name of Rabh said: He who lights the 
"Hanukah lamp must pronounce a benediction. R. Jeremiah 
said: He who perceives it must pronounce a benediction. R. 
Jehudah said: He who perceives a ’Hanukah lamp on the first 
day must pronounce two benedictions, and the one that lights 
it on the first day, three;* after the first day, the one that 
lights it must pronounce two benedictions and the one that 
perceives it one. 

What benediction would he omit ? The benediction of time. 
But why not omit the benediction of the miracle? Because the 
miracle was continued every day (of the eight). And what is 
the (special) benediction ? ‘‘ Blessed be, etc., who hallowed us 
with His commands and ordained that we shall light the ’Hanu- 
kah lamp.’’ But where did He ordain this? Said R. Avya: 
(This command is included in) ‘‘ Thou shalt not depart,’’ etc. 
[Deut. xvii. 11]. R. Nehemiah, however, from the following 
said: ‘‘ Ask thy father and he will tell thee; thine elders, and 
they will inform thee’’ [ibid. xxxii. 7]. 

R. Huna said: A house that has two doors must have two 
lamps. Said Rabha: This is only in case when the two doors 
are in two different sides of the house; but if they both open on 
the same side it is not necessary. Why so? Because the towns- 
men may pass by the side which has no lamp and suspect the 
owner of the house of not having lit any at all. And where is 
it taken from that one must endeavor to avoid suspicion? From 
a Tosephtha in Peah, Chap. I., which states plainly that every 
one must do so. 

R. Isaac b. Rediphah in the name of R. Huna said: “‘ A lamp 
with two mouths (so that two wicks can be lit in it) is sufficient 
for two men.”’ 

Rabha said: If one has filled a dish with oil, put wicks all 
around the brim, and covered it with a vessel (so that each wick 
yields a separate flame), it is sufficient for many persons; but if 
he has not covered it, he makes it appear as one flame of fire, 
and it is not valid, even for one person. . 

The same said again: If one (possessing only means enough 





* The three benedictions here referred to are: Ist, for the privilege of lighting the 
’Hanukah lamp ; 2d, for the miracle which the lamp commemorates ; and 3d, for the 
continuance of life until the season of "Hanukah. The second benediction is techni- 
cally designated as that of the ‘‘ miracle” and the third as that of ‘‘ time.” 


} 


38 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


to light one lamp) must choose between using this light for a 
house-light * (on Friday night) or a ’Hanukah light, he should 
use it for a house-light in order to preserve his domestic peace. 
If, again, his choice must be between (purchasing) the house- 
light and (the wine necessary for the celebration) of the holiness 
of Sabbath, the house-light is to be preferred and for the same 
reason; however, it is doubtful to me what must be chosen 
between the ’Hanukah light and the goblet for qiddush. When 
one cannot afford both, which must he prefer?’’ ‘‘ Is the lat- 
ter to be preferred because it is of regular occurrence,t or is the 
’Hanukah light preferable, in order to proclaim the miracle 
(which it commemorates)?’’ After deliberating he decided 
himself that the proclaiming of the miracle has the preference. 

R. Huna said: He who makes a practice of lighting many 
lamps (which the law requires for festive occasions) will be 
rewarded with scholarly sons. He who is particular about his 
Mezuzah will be blessed with a fine dwelling. He who is par- 
ticular about his show-threads (Tzitziths) will be blessed with 
fine garments. He who is particular to pronounce the benedic- 
tion of Sabbath over a goblet of wine shall live to have his cellar 
well stocked. 

R. Huna was wont to pass by the house of R. Abbin, the 
carpenter. He noticed that the latter lit a great many lamps 
on the Sabbath night. Said he: ‘‘ Two great men will come 
forth from this house.’’ And they were R. Jidi and R. Hyya 
b. Abhin. 

R. Hisda was wont to pass by the house of the master (father 
or father-in-law) of R. Shezbi; he noticed many lights every 
Sabbath. Said he: ‘‘A great man will come forth from this 
house.”’ This great man was R. Shezbi. 

The wife of R. Joseph was accustomed to light her (Sab- 
bath) lamp late. Said he unto her: There is a Boraitha: It 
is written: ‘‘ The pillar of cloud did not depart by day nor the 





* ‘«The light for a house-light.” The text does not specify on what night, but 
Rashi’s commentary adds Friday night, z.e., Sabbath eve. In our opinion that is not 
the intent of Rashi; for even on workdays the light used by the household should 
have preference. Proof is: the reason given is for the sake of domestic peace ; were 
it only to apply to Sabbath eve, the reason given would have been in honor of the 
Sabbath. 

+ In all the ordinances to be observed, the rabbis have adopted the rule that if 
the choice stands between one that recurs at short intervals and one that occurs more 
seldom, the former is always to be preferred. (‘‘ Tadir, vesheaino tadir, tadir 
kodom.”) 


TRACT SABBATH. 39 


pillar of fire by night ’’ [Ex. xiii. 22], From this we infer that 
the two pillars always closely followed each other. She then 
wanted to light up too early. Said a certain old man to her: 
“There is another Boraitha, however, that (whatever is to be 
done) should be done neither too early nor too late.”’ 

Rabha said: ‘‘ He who loves scholars, will have sons that 
are scholars; he who respects them, will have scholarly sons-in- 
law; he who fears scholars, will become a scholar himself, and 
if he is not fit for this, his words will be respected like those of 
an ordained scholar.’’ 

“ Ou of rejected heave-offering,’’ etc. What is that? Said 
Rabba: It means oil of heave-offering which became defiled. It 
is called oil for burning, because it must be destroyed in fire, 
and the Mishna speaks here of a Friday that happens to fall on 
a feast day, and the prohibition to light (the Sabbath lamp) 
with it is because consecrated things that have been defiled 
must not be burned on a feast day. Said R. Hanina of Sora: 
‘This should be corrected in our Mishna: Why shall one not 
make a light with the defiled oil? Because defiled things must 
not be burned on a feast day. And so also we have learned in 
a Boraitha: All material which must not be used for lighting on 
the Sabbath, may be lit on a feast day, save the oil for burning.”’ 

Theschoolmen propounded a question: Should the’Hanukah 
incident be mentioned in the benediction after meals? Shall 
we assume that because it is rabbinical it is unnecessary ? or, 
for the sake of the proclamation of the miracle, it should? Said 
Rabba in the name of R. S’haura, quoting R. Huna: “ It is not 
necessary; however, if one wishes to do it, he should incorpo- 
rate it in the thanksgiving part.”’ 

R. Hunah b. Jehudah visited the house of Rabha. He was 
about to mention it in (the prayer part under the heading of) 
“the One who builds up Jerusalem.’’ Said R. Shesheth: Nay; 
it should be mentioned in the thanksgiving part of the benedic- 
tion after the meal, as it is mentioned in the same part in the 
prayer of the eighteen benedictions.* 

The schoolmen propounded a question: Should the New- 
Moon day be mentioned in the benediction after meals? Shall 
we assume that the New-Moon day is more important than 
"Hanukah because its observation is enjoined in the Scriptures, 





* The principal elements of all Hebrew prayers are: rst, Shebhah, 7.¢., praise ; 
2d, Hodayah, z.e., thanksgiving ; 3d, Tephilah, z.c., prayer; and 4th, Ta’hanun, 2.¢., 
propitiation. 


40 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


or need it not be mentioned because manual labor is not pro- 
hibited on that day? Rabh maintains it may; R. Hanina 
maintains it may not. Said R. Zerika: ‘‘ Hold to Rabh’s opin- 
ion, for R. Oshia holds to the same; as R. Oshia taught: On 
the days on which additional sacrifices (Musaph) are offered in 
the sanctuary, like New-Moon days and the middle days of a 
feast, one must at evening, morning, and afternoon services 
recite the regular eighteen benedictions and insert in the thanks- 
giving part of the day’s service a passage referring to the sub- 
ject of the day. And if he has failed to do so, he should be 
made to repeat them; however, no benediction over a goblet of 
wine, though a remembrance of their significance must be made 
in the prayer after meals. On days requiring no additional sac- 
rifice, like the first Monday, Thursday and Monday (after a bibli- 
cal feast), fast days, and the days (devoted to prayer by) com- 
moners,* one must recite the eighteen benedictions at evening, 
morning, and afternoon services, and insert a paragraph refer- 
ring to the subject of the day in the prayer division; and if he 
forgot the latter he need not repeat them, nor any remembrance 
of them in the benediction after meals. The Halakha, however, 
does not prevail with all that was said above. It remains as 
decreed by R. Joshua b. Levi: If the Day of Atonement hap- 
pens to fall on a Sabbath day, mention of the Sabbath must be 
made even in the Neilah prayer (the last of the four different 
prayers of the Day of Atonement). Why so? Because the 
Sabbath and the Day of Atonement are now one, and four 
prayers are indispensable to the services of the day. 

MISHNA J/.: The lamp used on a (biblical) feast-night 
shall not be fed with oil of rejected heave-offerings. R. Ishmael 
said: The Sabbath lamp shall not be fed with tar, out of honor 
forthe Sabbath. The sages, however, allow all fatty substances 
for this purpose: poppy-seed oil, nut oil, fish oil, radish oil, 
wild-gourd oil, tar, and naphtha. R. Tarphin said: It shall be 
lighted with nothing but olive oil. 

GEMARA: “ 2. Ishmael said,’’ etc. Why so? Said Rabha: 
Because it emits a bad odor (and the Tana prohibits it) as a pre- 





* A division of the people had always to be present at the temple to witness the 
services. The men of such a division were called ‘‘ commoners” because there was 
a special place assigned to them in the temple. All of them not being able to attend, 
they sent their delegates to represent them, but they assembled in their various cities 
and villages to perform their devotion. The days on which this was done were desig- 
nated as those of ‘‘ commoners "—‘‘ Ma’amadoth.” See Mishna, Ta’anith. 





LBRACT SABBATH. 41 


caution, lest one light it and leave the house. Said Abayi: Let 
him go (what harm is there in that ?). Rejoined Rabha: Be- 
cause I hold that the Sabbath light is a duty, as R. Na’hman b. 
R. Zabda or b. Rabha said in the name of Rabh. The (enjoy- 
ment of) Sabbath light is an obligation. The washing of hands 
and feet in warm water toward evening (on Friday) is optional. 
And I say it isa meritorious act. Why so? Because R. Jehudah 
said in the name of Rabh: ‘‘ It was the custom of R. Jehudah 
bar Ilayi to bathe his face, hands, and feet in warm water, that 
was brought to him ina trough every Friday toward evening; 
after that he wrapped himself in a pallium with Tzitzith (show- 
threads) and thus assumed an angelic appearance.”’ 

It is written: ‘‘ My soul was deprived of peace’’ [Lam. iii. 
17]. What does this mean? Said R. Abuhu: It means (being 
deprived of the pleasure of) lighting the Sabbath lamp. ‘“‘I 
forgot the good’’ [ibid.]. What does this mean? Said R. 
Jeremiah: This refers to (the deprivation of)a bath. R. Johanan, 
however, said: It refers to the washing of hands and feet with 
warm water. R. Isaac of Naph’ha said: It refers to a good bed 
and comfortable bedding. R. Aba said: It refers to an arranged 
bed and an elegantly robed wife for scholarly men. 

The rabbis taught: ‘‘ Who may consider himself rich ?’’ 
One who enjoys his riches, is the opinion of R. Meir. R. Tar- 
phon says: He who has a hundred fields, a hundred vineyards, 
and a hundred slaves at work inthem. R. Aqiba said: He who 
has a wife adorned with good virtues. R. Jose said: He who 
has a place for man’s necessity in his house.* 

We have learned in a Boraitha: R. Simeon b. Elazar said: 
‘“ The Sabbath lamp shall not be fed with aromatic balsam.’’ 
Why so? Rabba said: Because it yields a fine fragrance, it was 
feared lest one use it (taking it out while the lamp is burning). 
Said Abayi to him: ‘‘ Why does not the master say because it 
is volatile ?’’ Aye, he means this and the other also; the bal- 
sam is prohibited because it is volatile, and also for fear lest it 
be used. 

There was a mother-in-law who hated her son’s wife, and told 
her to perfume herself with aromatic oil. When the daughter- 
in-law had done this, she ordered her to go and light the candle. 
While complying with this order, she caught fire and was burned. 

The rabbis taught: A lamp shall not be fed with defiled 


* Toilet rooms were not in vogue at that time, and for their necessity they had to 
go far out into the field or forest. 





42 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


‘‘ Tebhel’’ * even on week days, and the less so on the Sab- 
bath. Ina similar manner, white naphtha shall not be used to 
feed a lamp with on week days, much less on Sabbath, because 
it is volatile. 

In the Boraitha it was said that aromatic balsam shall not be 
used; so also did R. Simeon b. Elazar teach: Aromatic balsam 
is nothing but resin, that comes forth from aromatic trees. 

R. Ishmael said: The (Sabbath) lamp shall not be fed with 
anything that comes from the trunk of atree. R. Ishmael b. 
Beroqa said: It shall be lighted only with such substances as 
come from fruit. R. Tarphon, however, said: It shall be fed 
only with olive oil. R. Johanan b. Nuri then arose and said: 
‘‘ What shall the people of Babylonia do, who have nothing but 
poppy-seed oil? What shall the people of Media do, who have 
nothing but nut oil? What shall the people of Alexandria do, 
who have nothing but radish oil ? and what shall the people of 
Cappadocia do, who have no oil of any kind, nothing but tar ?”’ 
Nay; we have no choice but to accept the decree of the masters 
as to substances which should not be used. Even fish oil and 
resin may be used. R. Simeon Shezori said: Oil of wild gourds 
and naphtha may be used. Symmachos said: No animal fat save 
fish oil may be used. 

MISHNA J//.: No substance that comes from a tree shall 
be used (as a wick) save flax. In like manner no substance that 
comes from a tree becomes defiled when serving as a tent (in 
which a dead body lies) save flax. 

GEMARA: Whence do we know that flax is called a tree ? 
Said Mar Zutra: From what is written: ‘‘ She took them up to 
the roof, and hid them in the flax trees’’ [Josh. ii. 6]. 

‘““ No substance, etc., save flax.’’ Whence is this deduced ? 
Said R. Elazar: From the analogy of expressions “‘ tent,’’ which 
is mentioned in the case of the tabernacle, and in the case of 
death [Ex. xl. 19 and Numb. xix. 14]. As the tent of the 
tabernacle was made only of flax, so also in our case, if a tent 
is made of flax only, it is also called a tent, and is liable to 
become defiled. 

MISHNA JV: A piece of cloth that was rolled together, 
but not singed, said R. Eliezer, becomes defiled (when it is in 
the same tent with a dead body), and shall not be used (as a 





*‘* Tebhel” is the designation of the produce of the field and the garden from 
which the Levitical gifts or tithes were not separated. 


TRACT SABBATH. 43 


wick) for Sabbath. R. Aqiba, however, said: It remains pure 
and may be used. 

GEMARA: What is the point of their differing? Said 
R. Elazar in the name of R. Oshia, and so also said R. Ada b. 
Ahba: The piece of cloth in question is exactly three fingers 
square, and the lighting is to be done on a feast day, which 
happens ona Friday. All agree with the opinion of R. Jehudah, 
who said that (on a feast day) fire may be made with good cloth 
(or vessels), but not with such as have been spoiled (the same 
day). Again, all agree with the opinion of Ula, who said that 
the lighting must be on the largest part of the wick that pro- 
trudes from the lamp. Now R. Eliezer holds that the rolling 
up (of the piece of cloth) does not improve the position (z.¢., it 
is still an object to which the term ‘‘ cloth’’ or vessel applies) ; 
as soon as it is slightly burned it becomes spoiled material; fire, 
being applied further, is naturally generated with spoiled mate- 
rial (which is prohibited). R. Aqiba, on the other hand, holds 
that folding does improve the condition and the cloth is no 
longer a vessel; hence he puts fire to a simple piece of wood 
(which is allowed). 

Rabha, however, said: The reason of R. Eliezer’s (pro- 
hibition) is that the Sabbath lamp is not allowed to be lighted 
with a wick or rag that has not been singed. 

R. Jehudah in the name of Rabh said: Fire may be made 
(on a feast day) with vessels, but not with broken vessels. So 
is the decree of R. Jehudah. R. Simeon permits it. Fire may 
be made with dates, but after having eaten them fire is not to 
be fed with their granum. A fire may be made with nuts, but 
after having eaten the kernel one must not feed the fire with the 
shells, according to R. Jehudah; R. Simeon, however, permits 
both. 

The statement credited to Rabh in the foregoing paragraph 
was not made by him plainly, but was merely implied from the 
following act. While in Palestine, one day Rabh was eating 
dates and threw the pits into the fireplace, upon which R. 
Hyya said to him: ‘* Descendant of nobles, on a (biblical) feast 
day this would be prohibited!’’ Did Rabh accept this or not ? 
Come and hear. While in Babylonia, one feast day Rabh was 
eating dates and threw the pits to some cattle (for food), 
Must we not assume that these dates belonged to the class 
known as “ Parsiassa’’ (a ripe, delicious, free-stone fruit), and 
if Rabh fed cattle with the pits of this fruit, it was because 


44 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


they may be used for fuel also, and thus the statement of R. 
Hyya is contradicted ? Nay; it may be the pits that fed the 
cattle by Rabh were from dates known as ‘‘ Armiassa’’ (an 
inferior fruit, the pits of which cling to the meat). The pits 
of this latter class of dates, in consequence of the meat still 
clinging to them, are regarded as dates themselves, and may be 
handled on the Sabbath. Hence it is obvious that they may 
also be fed to cattle, and Rabh therefore does not contradict 
R. Hyya. 

MISHNA V.: One shall not bore a hole in an egg-shell, fill 
it with oil, and put it upon the (Sabbath) lamp, so that the oil 
drip into it; and even if it was aclay one. R. Jehudah permits 
it. If, however, the potter had attached it to the lamp when 
he made it, it is allowed to do this, for (together with the lamp) 
it forms one vessel. A man shall not fill a dish with oil, put it 
beside the lamp, and dip the (unlighted) end of the wick into it, 
in order that it should draw. R. Jehudah permits also this. 

GEMARA: “‘ Jf the potter had attached it,’’ etc. A Bo- 
raitha in addition to it states: If he himself has attached it with 
mortar or clay, it is allowed. Does not our Mishna say ‘‘ the 
potter’’ (from which it may be inferred that if the owner did it, 
is it not allowed for use)? Nay; ‘‘ the potter’’ means in the 
manner of the potter. 

We have learned in a Boraitha, R. Jehudah said: ‘‘ Once we 
kept Sabbath in the attic of Beth Nitza in Lydda. We pro- 
cured an egg-shell, filled it with oil, and placed it on the lamp. 
R. Tarphon and the aged scholars were there, and they made 
no objection to our action.’’ They answered him: ‘‘ Wilt thou 
prove by this (that this is allowed)? Beth Nitza is quite a dif- 
ferent case, for the men there were very careful.’’ 

Abhin of Ziphoris dragged a chair (along the floor on a Sab- 
bath) in the marble hall in the presence of R. Itz’hak b. Elazar. 
Said the latter: ‘‘ If I should be silent toward thee (although 
this floor being marble, no depression can be made by the chair, 
and thou art not guilty of wrongdoing) as the colleagues were 
silent toward R. Jehudah, my silence might be misconstrued 
(and people might think that this can be done on any floor; 
therefore I say that) this is prohibited in the marble hall asa 
precautionary measure, lest one do it in any other hall.’’ The 
head man of the assembly room of Bazra dragged a chair in the 
presence of Jeremiah the Great. Said the latter to him: ‘* Ac- 
cording to whose decision dost thou this ?’’ ‘‘ According to R. 


TRACT SABBATH. 45 


Simeon.”’ ‘‘ R. Simeon, however, allowed large things only 
(to be dragged) if they could not be lifted; but we have never 
heard from him that he would allow this also with small ones ?”’ 
This teaching, however, differs with Ulla’s theory, who says the 
dispute was only concerning small things, for as to large ones 
there was no objection from any one. 

MISHNA VZ.: If one extinguishes a lamp because he is 
afraid of the officers of the government,* or of robbers, or of an 
evil spirit,t or in order that a sick person may be able to sleep, 
he is free. If he does this, however, to prevent damage to the 
lamp, or to save the oil or the wick, he is culpable. R. Jose 
declares the man free even in the latter cases, excepting (if he 
extinguished the lamp to save the wick), for in that case he 
caused a cinder to be formed. 

GEMARA: From the fact that the second part of the Mishna 
declares the man (who had extinguished the lamp to prevent 
damage, etc.) culpable, it is evident that this regulation was 
made by R. Jehudah.t Now, how is the first part to be under- 
stood? If it speaks of a sick person, whose illness is danger- 
ous, it should not say (that the man who extinguishes the lamp 
to afford him rest) is ‘‘ free,’’ but should say that he is ‘‘ allowed 
to do it’’ (even intentionally). And if it speaks of one whose 
illness is not dangerous, (the one who extinguished the lamp for 
him) ought to be declared in duty bound to bring a sin-offering ? 
Of a verity, the Tana speaks of a case of dangerous illness, and 
should have said “‘ it is allowed to do so,’’ but he used the term 
‘“‘ free’’ merely (for the sake of euphony), because in the latter 
part (of the Mishna) the expression ‘‘ culpable’’ was necessary ; 
therefore he taught in the first part of the Mishna, also free. 
But have we not learned, R. Oshia said, that ‘‘ in order that 
a sick person may be able to sleep, one should not extinguish 
(the lamp on the Sabbath); and if he did so he is not held cul- 
pable, though it is not allowed (to be done intentionally)’’ ? 
The teaching of R. Oshia refers to sickness that is not danger- 
ous, and is in accord with the opinion of R. Simeon. 

The question, ‘‘ Is it allowed to extinguish a lamp for the 





* Like the Persians, says Rashi, who had certain nights on which they allowed 
no lights to burn anywhere but in their sacred shrines, 

+ The evil spirit here referred to is explained by the commentators to mean ‘‘ mel- 
ancholia.” 

¢ The inference is made on the strength of a rule laid down by R. Jehudah else- 
where, that every unintentional breach of the Sabbath, which is made not out of per- 
sonal necessity or habit, must be atoned for by a sin-offering. (Rashi.) 


46 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


sake of a sick person on the Sabbath ?’’ was propounded to 
Tan’hum of Navi. 

He began thus:* ‘‘O thou Solomon! Where is thy wis- 
dom? Where is thy folly ? Thy words contradict not only the 
words of thy father, but also thine own utterance. Thy father 
David said, ‘ The dead do not praise God’ [Ps. cxv. 17], and 
thou sayest, ‘ I praise the dead that died long ago’ [Eccl. iv. 2], 
and then again, ‘ A living dog fareth better than a dead lion’ 
[ibid. ix. 4]. [This presents no difficulty. That which David 
said, ‘ The dead do not praise God,’ means this: One must always 
occupy himself with study and with meritorious acts before his 
death; for as soon as he dies he is free of both, and the Holy 
One, blessed be He, receives no more praise from him. And 
the saying of Solomon, ‘I praise the dead,’ etc., means: When 
Israel sinned in the desert, Moses stood up before the Lord and 
offered many prayers and propitiating invocations; but he re- 
ceived no answer. As soon, however, as he said: ‘ Remember 
Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, Thy servants’ [Ex. xxxii. 13], he 
was answered forthwith. Now did not Solomon say well: ‘I 
praise the dead that have died long ago’? In another way (this 
can be explained as follows): The custom is, if a man of flesh 
and blood issues a decree, it is doubtful whether the people will 
comply with it or not. If they comply with it while he lives 
they may disregard it after his death. Moses, our master, on 
the other hand, has issued many decrees and established many 
enactments, which stand unshaken forever and aye. Now, did 
not Solomon say well: ‘I praise the dead,’ etc.? Another ex- 
planation to the above verse may refer to the following legend, 
which was told by R. Jehudah in the name of Rabh: It is writ- 
ten [Psalms, Ixxxvi. 17]: ‘ Display on me a sign for good, that 
those who hate me may see it, and be ashamed.’ So said David 
before the Holy One, blessed be He: ‘ Lord of the Universe, 
forgive me the certain sin (with Bath-Sheba’, II Samuel, xi. 
3). And the Lord said: ‘It is forgiven.’ He prayed again: 
‘ Display on me a sign to make it known.’ And the Lord said: 
‘ This will not be done while you are alive, but it will be made 
known in the time of your son Solomon.’ After Solomon had 
built the Temple and was about to enter the ark into the Holy 
of Holiness, the doors shut. Solomon had prayed twenty-four 





* This apparently far-fetched introduction to an answer to a question of religious 
legalism illustrates most beautifully how the ethical principle predominated in the 
rabbinical discussions. 


TRACT SABBATH. 47 


prayers with song, and was not answered. He then began 
[Psalms, xxiv. 7]: ‘ Be raised wide . . . and let the King 
of Glory enter!’ The doors then ran after him and wanted to 
swallow him, saying: ‘ Who is the King of Glory?’ And he 
said: ‘ The Lord strong and mighty.’ He then said: [ibid., ibid. 
9, 10]. And still was not answered. Then he said [1I Chron. 
vi. 42]: ‘O Lord God! . . . remember the pious deeds of 
David thy servant’; he was answered at once, and the faces of 
his enemies became as black as the outside of a pot; and Israel 
and all the people were then certain that the above-mentioned 
sin was forgiven to David. Hence did not Solomon say well: 
‘I praise the dead,’ etc.? And this is what is written [I Kings, 
vill. 66]: “On the eighth day . . . and they went unto 
their tents joyful,’ etc.] And as to the above question,* I say 
this: A lamp is called ‘ Ner,’ and the soul of man is called 
‘Ner.’+ Let rather the Ner which man has made (the lamp) 
be extinguished, than the ‘ Ner’ (the soul) which belongs to the 
Holy One, blessed is He.”’ 

It was said in the name of Rabh: The sages wanted to con- 
ceal the Book of Ecclesiastes because of its contradictory say- 
ings. And it was not so done, because it begins with sound 
religious teachings and ends with similar teachings. It begins 
with the words: ‘‘ What profit hath man by all his toil under 
the sun?”’ [Eccl. i. 3]. Whereupon the school of R. Janai 
said, ‘‘ Under the sun’’ there is no profit, but there surely is 
‘* beyond the sun.’’ And it ends with the words: ‘‘ The conclu- 
sion of the matter is, Fear God and observe his commands, for 
this is all (there is) for man ”’ [ Eccl. xii. 13]. What does it mean? 
Said R. Elazar: (It means) the whole world was created only 
for the sake of his fear of God. R. Aba b. Kahana said: The 
God-fearing man outweighs (in importance) the whole world. 
Simeon b. Azai, others say b. Zoma, said: The whole world 
was created only to provide him with assistance. 

‘“‘T praise mirth’’ [Eccl. viii. 15]. This means the righteous 
man rejoices when he performs a meritorious act. ‘‘ And of joy, 
what doth this do ?’’ [Eccl. ii. 2] alludes to rejoicing that comes 
not through a Heaven-pleasing deed. This teaches that the 
divine presence (Shekhina) comes not by sadness, by indolence, 





* The liberality of the rabbinical law is evinced by the fact that it regards an act 
done for the sake of alleviating sufferings on the Sabbath day not wrongful. Every 
comfort may and should be provided for the sick on the Sabbath day. 

+ ‘‘ Ner” is the Hebrew word for candle ; the soul is the candle of God. 


48 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


by hilarity, by levity, by gossip, or by senseless talk, but 
through rejoicing in a meritorious deed; as it is written: ‘‘ Now 
bring me a minstrel; and when the minstrel played, the power of 
the Lord was upon him’”’ [II Kings, iii. 15]. Rabba said: The 
same (should be done) in order to enjoy good dreams. R. Jehu- 
dah says: The same (should be done) to predispose one’s self 
for legislative work, as Rabba did: Before commencing to ex- 
pound a Halakha he introduced it with a simile and caused the 
masters to become joyful; afterward, he sat down in the fear of 
the Lord and began to expound the Halakha. 

It was taught that in the same time they also wanted to con- 
ceal the Book of Proverbs on account of its contradictory say- 
ings. And it was not done, because, they said: ‘‘ Have we not 
scrutinized the Book of Ecclesiastes and found the meaning (of 
its contradictory sayings)? Let us then search deeply here (in 
the Book of Proverbs) also.”’ 

Which are the contradictory sayings? It says: ‘‘ Answer 
not the fool according to his folly’’ [Prov. xxvi. 4]; and then 
again: “‘ Answer the fool in his folly’ [ibid. v. 5]. Yet this is 
no contradiction; the latter refers to a subject of learning, the 
former saying to a subject of indifferent talk. How is the sub- 
ject of learning here to be understood? In the following man- 
ner. R. Gamaliel lectured: In the future, woman will bear a 
child every day, for thus it is written: ‘‘ She conceived and 
gave birth at a time’’ [Jer. xxxi. 7]. A disciple laughed at 
this and said: ‘‘ There is no new thing under the sun ”’ [ Eccl. i. 
9g]. Said R. Gamaliel: Come, I will show thee such a thing in 
the world; and he showed him ahen. Thesame rabbi lectured: 
In the future trees will bear every day, for it is written: ‘‘ It 
will produce branches and bear fruit’’ [Ezek. xvii. 23]. ‘‘ As 
branches are produced for every day, so also will fruit be 
brought forth every day.’’ Again the disciple laughed and 
said: ‘* There is no new thing under the sun.”’ Said the master 
to him: ‘‘ Come, I will show thee a thing of this kind in the 
world; and he showed him a caper tree.’’ He lectured also: 
‘‘ The land of Israel will in the future produce ready cakes and 
garments,’’ explaining the first part of verse 16 of Psalm ]xxii. 
to that effect. 

The disciple again laughed at him; but he showed him that 
ready meats are produced in the shape of mushrooms, and ready 
garments grow in the shape of many-colored fibres that cover 
the young date trees. 


TRACT SABBATH. 49 


The rabbis taught: A man should always be as modest as 
Hillel, and not as impulsive as Shamai. It once happened that 
two men laid a wager of four hundred zuz, which would be won 
by him who could provoke Hillel to anger, but lost if he failed 
in the attempt. This happened on Friday, while the sage was 
bathing his head. The man who undertook the task went to 
Hillel’s door and cried: ‘‘ Who is Hillel here? Who is Hillel 
here ?’’* The rabbi threw a mantle over his shoulders and 
went out to meet him. ‘‘ What desirest thou, my son?’’ he 
asked. ‘‘I have a question to ask,’’ the man replied. ‘* Ask, 
my son, ask,’’ said the rabbi. ‘‘ Why are the Babylonians 
round-headed ?’’ asked the man. ‘“‘ This is an important ques- 
tion, my son. The reason is that they have no skilled midwives 
in Babylon,’’ answered Hillel. An hour later the man came 
again calling: “‘ Who is Hillel here? Who is Hillel here ?’’ 
The rabbi came out again and said: ‘‘ What desirest thou, my 


son?’’ ‘‘T have a question to ask,’’ the man said. ‘“‘ Ask, 
my son, ask,’ said Hillel. ‘“‘ Why have the Tarmudites oval 
eyes?’’ ‘‘ This is a very important question, my son. (The 


Tarmudites) live in a sandy land and must always keep their 
eyes half closed.’’ An hour later the man came again in his 
insolent manner, and said again that he had a question to ask. 
Hillel in his quiet manner again encouraged him. ‘* Why do 
the Africans have large feet ?’’ he asked. ‘* Because they live 
in a swampy land,’’ answered Hillel. ‘“‘I have many more 
questions to ask, but I am afraid lest thou get angry,’ con- 
tinued the man. Hillel wrapped himself in his mantle and sat 
down, saying: ‘‘ Ask, my son, all the questions thou desirest.’’ 
‘** Art thou Hillel, who is titled a prince in Israel ?’’ asked the 
man. ‘‘ Yes, my son,’’ answered the rabbi. ‘‘ If thou art the 
man, may there not be many like thee in Israel ?’’ ‘‘ Why so, 
my son?’’ ‘‘ Because thou makest me lose four hundred zuz.’”’ 
Said Hillel to him: ‘‘ Take care of thy temper. <A Hillel is 
worthy that twice that amount be lost through him; a Hillel 
must not get excited.”’ 

The rabbis taught. A Gentile once came before Shamai and 
asked: ‘‘ How many laws have you?’’ ‘‘ Two laws: the writ- 
ten and the oral law,’’ answered Shamai. ‘‘I believe thee as 
regards the written law, but I do not believe thee as to the oral 





* Hillel, being the president of the Sanhedrin, should have been addressed accord- 
ing to his rank, but by addressing him thus, it seems, the man thought he could pro- 
voke him to anger. 


VOL. 1L.—4. 


50 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


law,’’ said the Gentile. ‘‘I will be converted to Judaism on 
condition that thou teach me the written law.’’ Shamai re- 
buked him and drove him away. 

He then came to Hillel with the same plea, and Hillel 
accepted him. He began teaching him the alphabet in regular 

equence. The next day he taught him the letters backward. 
Sou did not teach me so yesterday,’’ the man objected. 
“Aye, aye, my son; must thou not repose confidence in me? 
Thou must likewise repose confidence in the oral law (which 
appears at first sight different from the written law).”’ 

Another Gentile came to Shamai saying: ‘‘ Convert me on 
the condition that thou teach me the whole Torah while I stand 
on one foot.’’ Shamai pushed him away with the builders’ 
measure he held in his hand. He thereupon came to Hillel, 
and the latter accepted him. He told him: ‘‘ What is hateful 
to thee, do not unto thy fellow; this is the whole law. All the 
rest is a commentary to this law; go and learn it.”’ 

Another Gentile once heard a Jewish teacher instructing his 
class about the vestments of the high priest. He took a fancy 
to that, and thought he would accept Judaism in order to be 
made a high priest. Thus he appeared before Shamai and said: 
“Convert me on the condition that I be made a high priest.’’ 
Shamai pushed him away with the builders’ measure he held in 
his hand. We came to Hillel (with the same request), and the 
latter accepted him. Said Hillel to him: ‘‘ Do people select 
a king unless he knows the laws of their government ? Thou 
must study the laws of our government (if thou wilt become a 
high priest).’’ The convert began studying Torah. When he 
came to the passage: ‘‘ A stranger who comes near (to the ves- 
sels of the sanctuary) shall die’’ [Numb. i. 51], he asked: ‘‘ To 
whom does this passage refer?’’ Hillel answered: ‘‘ To any 
one (who is not a descendant of Aaron the high priest), even if 
he would be David, the king of Israel.’’ Then the proselyte 
made the following deduction: If the people of Israel, who are 
called the children of the Lord, so that out of love to them the 
Omnipotent said: ‘‘ My first-born son is Israel’’ [Ex. iv. 22]— 
if of them it is written, ‘‘ a stranger that comes nigh shall die,’’ 
the more so must it be with an insignificant stranger, who is 
come (within the pale of Judaism) merely with his staff and his 
bag. He went before Shamai and said: ‘‘ Am I qualified to 
become a high priest? Is it not written [Numb. iii. to]: ‘A 
stranger that comes nigh shall die’ ?’" He then appeared before 


TRACT SABBATH. 51 


Hillel and said: ‘‘ For thy equanimity of temper, O Hillel! may 
blessings be upon thy head, for thou hast gathered me in under 
the wings of the Shekhina.’’ The three converts met some time 
later, and said: ‘‘ The impulsiveness of Shamai came near sending 
us adrift in the world (outside of the pale of religion); Hillel’s 
equanimity of temper gathered us in under the wings of the 
Shekhina.”’ 

Resh Lakish said: What does the verse, ‘‘ The trust of thy 
times shall be the strength of salvation, wisdom, and knowl- 
edge,”’ etc. [Isa. xxxiii. 6]—what does this mean? (I think 
that this can be a biblical support to the six divisions of the 
Mishna which we possess.*) ‘‘ The trust’’ comes within the 
section of ‘‘ Zeraim’’ (seeds); ‘‘ thy times’’ in ‘* Moed’’ (fes- 
tivals); ‘‘strength’’ in ‘‘ Nashim’’ (women); “‘ salvation’’ in 
‘‘ Nezikin’’ (jurisprudence); ‘‘ wisdom ’’ in ‘* Qodoshim ’’ (holi- 
ness), and ‘‘ knowledge ”’ in section ‘‘ Taharith’’ (purity). And 
yet ‘‘ the fear of the Lord is his treasure’’ (z.e., all these do not 
avail where there is not the fear of the Lord).+ 

Rabha said: When a man comes before the (divine) judg- 
ment, he is asked: ‘‘ Hast thou traded in good faith? Hast 
thou apportioned regular times for study? Hast thou produced 
children? Didst thou hope for salvation? Hast thou discussed 
subjects of wisdom? Hast thou formed (logical) conclusions 
from the things thou hast learned ?’’ After all this (if he can 
affirm all these questions), if he possessed the fear of the Lord, 
it was well; if not, it was not so. This is like aman who ordered 
his agent to store a measure of wheat in the attic. The agent 
did so. Then the man asked him whether he had mixed some 
dry dust with the wheat (for protection against weevils), and 
he answered nay. ‘‘ It were better,’’ said the merchant, “‘ if 
thou hadst not stored it.”’ 

Rabba b. R. Huna said: ‘‘ A man who possesses learning, 


‘ 





* The six departments enumerated here are those of the Mishna, into which the 
rabbis have divided all the subjects touched upon in the Bible. 

¢ ‘‘ Trust ” comes within the department of ‘‘ Seeds” because the tithe due the 
priests and Levites by the farmers was not fixed legally as to quantity, but was 
trusted to the honesty of the donor. ‘‘ Thy times” comes within ‘‘ Festivals” for 
self-evident reasons. ‘‘ Strength” comes within ‘‘ Women,” for the reason that the 
Hebrew word, ‘‘ chosen,” also means inheritance, and heirs are naturally produced 
by women (this is the opinion of Rashi), ‘‘ Salvation” in ‘‘ Jurisprudence ”: all laws 
pertaining to the saving of life and property. ‘‘ Wisdom” in ‘‘ Holiness”: the holy 
sacrifices requiring the exercise of much wisdom. ‘‘ Knowledge” in ‘‘ Purity”: 
the determining of pure and defiled things necessarily demanded thorough knowl- 
edge of the subject. _ 


52 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD, 


but has no fear of Heaven, is like the manager (of a palace) who 
has the keys to the inside apartments, but lacks the one which 
opens the outside gate. How can he enter ?’”’ 

R. Janai proclaimed: ‘* Alas for him who has no dwelling, 
yet strives to make the door of a dwelling!’’ R. Jehudah said: 
The Holy One, blessed be He, created the world only for the 
purpose that man should fear Him, for it is written: ‘‘ God 
hath so made it, that (men) should fear him ”’ [Eccl. iii. 14]. 

R. Simon and R. Elazar were sitting together as R. Jacob 
b. Aha came passing by. Said one of them: ‘‘ Come, let us 
arise before him, for he is a man that fears sins.’’ Said the 
other: ‘‘ Aye; let us arise before him, for he is a son of en- 
lightenment (a scholar).’’ Said the former: I tell thee that he 
is a man that is afraid of sins, and thou sayest he is a scholar. 
Thou shouldst be mindful of what R. Elazar said: The Holy 
One, blessed be He, has nothing better in the world than (men 
who possess) the fear of Heaven, for thus it is written: ‘‘ And 
now, Israel, what doth the Lord thy God require of thee, but 
to fear the Lord thy God’’ [Deut. x. 12]. 

R. Ulla lectured: What does the passage mean, ‘‘ Be not 
wicked over much’’ [Eccl. vii. 17]. Is it allowed to be wicked 
at all? Nay, but the passage means this: If one has eaten gar- 
lic and has acquired a bad odor, he must not eat more garlic 
because the bad odor is (about him) already. Rabba b. R. Ulla 
lectured: It is written: ‘‘ For there are no fetters in them, but 
their strength is firm’’ [Psalms, Ixxiii. 4]. The Holy One, 
blessed be He, said: ‘‘ It is not enough that the wicked do not 
trouble for nor fear the day of their death, but that their heart 
within them is as strong as a strong fortress.’’ Which is similar 
to Rabba’s explanation of the passage: ‘* This is their way; 
their folly’ [ibid. xlix. 14]. The wicked know that their man- 
ner (of living) leads them to death, and still their kidneys wax 
fat (implying their blindness to the fact). Perhaps thou wilt 
attribute this to their forgetfulness? Therefore it is written: 
““ What will happen after their lives is the subject of their say- 
ings,’’ whence we conclude that while they do not repent, they 
continually speak of their death. 

““ To spare the lamp,’’ etc. With whom does R. Jose agree ? 
If he agrees with R. Jehudah, he should declare culpable even 
these; and if he agrees with R. Simeon, he should declare free 
even (the man who extinguishes the lamp) for the purpose of 
saving the wick. Said Ulla: By all means R. Jose agrees with 


TRACT SABBATH. 53 


R. Jehudah, but he holds that if one destroys in order to rebuild 
in the same place, he is guilty (of the act) of breaking; but if 
one destroys, not intending to rebuild in the same place, he is 
not (guilty of) breaking. R. Johanan, however, maintains that 
he holds as R. Simeon; but in the case of this wick it is differ- 
ent, as R. Hamnunah or R. Ada b. A’haba interpreted our 
Mishna that it reads ‘‘ from a wick which needs singeing,’’ and 
it is such acase. R. Simeon also agrees that it is prohibited 
because it is considered that he repairs a vessel. Said Rabha: 
It seems that this explanation is right, as the Mishna states ‘‘ fo 
be formed,’’ and not a cinder zs formed (already). 

MISHNA V//.: For three sins women die of childbirth: for 
negligence (of the laws) during their menstruation, neglect of 
separating the first dough, and for neglecting to light the (Sab- 
bath) lamp. 

GEMARA: Why so? Thus a Galilean master lectured 
before R. Hisda: The Holy One, blessed be He, says: I have 
created you with power of blood; I have warned you concern- 
ing blood; I have called you ‘“‘ the first produce’’ [Jer. ii. 3], 
and charged you to sacrifice the “‘ first of your dough’’ [Numb. 
Xvi. 21]; the soul that I gave you is called a light, and I have 
charged you concerning the (Sabbath) light. If you observe 
these things, it is well; if not, I shall take your souls. But 
why should this happen at the time of childbirth ? Said Rabha: 
When the ox falls or is felled, it is time to sharpen the knife.* 

And when are the sins of men passed upon? Said Resh 
Lakish: When they pass a dangerous place that is like a bridge 
(which is unsafe). Rabh would not embark on a ship that car- 
ried an idolater. Said he: ‘‘ His time to be punished may 
come, and I (being on the same vessel) may have to suffer with 
him.’’ Samuel, however, would go to sea only on a vessel 
which carried idolaters, saying: “‘ Satan hardly ever metes out 
punishment to two people’”’ (of different beliefs). R. Janai 
always examined a vessel before he embarked. This he did in 
conformity with his own theory elsewhere, for thus he taught: 
‘“ A man should never place himself in danger, expecting that 
a miracle will be wrought for him; for it may be that no 
such miracle will be wrought, and if a miracle is wrought for 
him, it will be deducted from the reward due his merits in the 





* When the ox is felled the knife should be ready, lest he rise again and cause 
more trouble ; thus it is stated that women die at time of childbirth because, while 
they are in danger, the punishment for transgressions is also inflicted ! 


54 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


world to come.’’ And R. Hanin said: ‘‘ Where is this to be 
found in the Scripture ?’’ From the verse: ‘‘ I am not worthy 
of all thy kindness and of all thy truth’’ [Gen. xxxii. 11]. R. 
Zera would never walk under date trees in stormy weather. R. 
Itz’hak b. R. Jehudah said: A man must always pray that he 
should not become sick, for if sickness befall him, he must be 
possessed of special virtues in order to get well again. And to 
the question of Mar Ugqba: Is this to be found in the Scrip- 
ture? he was told that the school of R. Ishmael maintains 
the passage in question is to be taken from Deut. xxii. 8—viz.: 
‘“ Peradventure one may fall down from there.’’ The word 
“* Hanofel,’’ which is in the past tense and implies that he has 
fallen down, although such a case had not happened as yet, is 
simply a matter of conjecture on the part of this school, which 
considered a predestined thing as a matter that had already 
occurred, because the fall was already predestined for the guilty 
person; as it is said: The reward of virtue is, however, brought 
about by a meritorious person, while the chastisement for sin is 
dealt out through a sinner (and his not making a railing around 
his roof constitutes him a guilty person). [See Deut. xxii. 8.] 

The rabbis taught: He who becomes sick, death approaching, 
should be told to confess his sins, for all those who are to suffer 
the death penalty must make a confession. When aman goes 
out to a market (where there are always dangerous people in the 
crowd), he should consider himself like one arrested by a ser- 
geant. When his head aches, he should consider himself as one 
putin prison. If he cannot rise from his bed, he should con- 
sider himself as one indicted before Gardom (a criminal court); 
if he has good advocates to defend him, he may go free; if not, 
he cannot be saved. The defending attorneys of a man (before 
divine justice) are penitence and good deeds. If there should 
be nine hundred and ninety-nine accusers against him and only 
one to plead in his favor, he is saved, as it is written: ‘‘ If there 
be a messenger with him, an interpreter, one among a thousand 
to show unto man his uprightness, then He is gracious unto 
him,”’ etc. [Job xxxiii. 23]. R. Eliezer b. R. Jose the Galilean 
said: Even if only one thousandth part of one advocate out of 
a thousand plead in the man’s favor, although the rest speak 
against him, he is saved; because it is said ‘‘ one’’ defender out 
of a thousand suffices. 

There is a Boraitha: R. Simeon b. Gamaliel said: ‘‘ The 
laws of holy offerings, heave-offerings, and tithes are integral 











TRACT SABBATH. 55 


parts of the Torah, and yet their observance was intrusted to 
the common people.”’ 

There is another Boraitha: R. Nathan says: For the sin of 
vows one’s wife dies, as it is written [Proverbs, xxii. 27]: 
why should he take away thy bed from under 
thee? "* 

Another Boraitha states: R. Nehemiah said: The penalty 
for the sin of hating without cause is strife at home, the wife 
(of the sinner) gives birth before her time, his sons and daugh- 
ters die young. 

R. Elazar b. Jehudah says: The penalty for the sin of 
neglecting the first dough is: no blessing in the harvest, high 
prices (for necessities), the consumption of the seed by strangers; 
but if this portion is given, blessings will surely follow, as it is 
written: “‘ The first of your dough shall you give to the priest, 
to cause a blessing to rest on thy house’’ [Ez. xliv. 30]. The 
penalty for the sin of neglecting heave-offerings and tithes is: 
the sky withholds rain and dew; dearth comes on, there are no 
profits, and men run about to earn a livelihood, but they do not 
succeed. But if these offerings are given, blessings will come, 
as it is written: “‘ Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, 
etc., and prove me but herewith, saith the Lord of Hosts, if I 
will not open for you the windows of heaven, and pour out for 
you a blessing until there be more than enough’’ [Mal. iii. 10]. 
The penalty for the sin of robbery is: locust pestilence, famine 
comes, and the people feed on the flesh of their children, as it 
is written [Amos, iv. I-7, q. v.] For the sins of curbing, 
perverting, and polluting justice, and of neglecting the law, 
the sword comes on, (enemies take) much spoil, the people eat 
and are never satisfied, and they must weigh the bread they eat 
(z.e., eat in small portions, for fear that nothing be left for the 
next meal), as it is written [Leviticus, xxvi. 25]: ‘‘ Avenging 
the quarrel of my covenant,’’ and covenant is synonymous with 
the Law, as it is written [Jeremiah, xxxiii. 25]: ‘‘ Thus hath 
said the Lord,’’ etc. For the sins of unnecessary and false 
swearing, perjury, blasphemy, and desecration of the Sabbath, 
many wild beasts come and domestic cattle are destroyed, the 
population decreases, and the roads are bare (without travellers), 
as it is written [Lev. xxvi. 18 to the end of the parargaph]. 





* The text continues with the punishment of death for different sins, which are 
repeated in other tracts, but we have omitted them here, as they will be translated in 
the proper place. 


56 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


For the sin of bloodshed the sanctuary is laid waste and She- 
khina departs from Israel, as it is written [Numbers, xxxv. 34]: 
‘‘ And ye shall not render unclean the land which ye inhabit, 
in the midst of which I dwell; for I, the Lord, dwell in the 
midst of the children of Israel’’; which signifies that if ye ren- 
der it unclean, the Shekhina will depart from the land. For 
the sins of adultery, idolatry, and disregard of (the laws of) the 
Sabbatic and Jubilee years exile comes, and (other nations) 
take up the place (of the exiles), as it is written (Lev. xviii. and 
xxvii.]. For the sin of defiling the mouth (speaking indecent 
things), great oppressions and evil decrees are (constantly) re- 
newed, young men die, orphans and widows cry (for help), but 
are not answered, as it is written [Isaiah, ix., end of verse 16]: 
‘For all this his anger is not turned away and his hand still 
remaineth stretched out,’’ which is explained by R. Hanan b. 
Ahba as follows: ‘‘ All know for what purpose a bride marries; 
still, he who defiles his mouth (by speaking of its details), even 
if a happy life of seventy years is decreed for him, the decree 
is turned aside.’’ Rabba b. Shila in the name of R. Hisda 
says: Gehenna is made deep for him who defiles his mouth, as 
it is written [Proverbs, xxii. 14]. R. Na’hman b. Isaac says: It 
is made deep even for the one who listens to (indecent talk) and 
does not protest against it [ibid. 15]. R. Oshia says: He who 
abuses himself (by masturbation) becomes afflicted with wounds 
and boils; not only this, but he is punished with dropsy.* R. 
Na’hman b. Itz’hak says dropsy is an evidence of sin. Samuel 
the Little took sick with it, and he said: *‘ Lord of the Uni- 
verse! Who will prove (that I am not guilty of immoral con- 
duct) ?’’ Hereupon he got well again. Abayi took sick with 
it. Said Rabha: ‘‘I know that the Nahmanite (son of Na’h- 
man) starves himself.’’ 

The rabbis taught: There are four evidences: an evidence 
of sin is dropsy; an evidence of hate without cause is jaundice; 
an evidence of pride is poverty; an evidence of calumny (spread- 
ing evil reports about others) is croup. The sickness of croup 
becomes epidemic for (the sin of neglecting to give) tithes; but 
R. Elazar b. Jose said, only for the sin of calumny. 

R. Jehudah, R. Jose, and R. Simeon were sitting together, 
and Jehudah, the son of proselytes, sat before them. R. Jehu- 
dah opened the conversation, saying: ‘‘ How beautiful are the 





* The text refers also to verses in the Scripture, but as there is no direct proof, 
we have omitted them. 





TRACT SABBATH. 57 


works of this nation (the Romans). They have established 
markets, they have built bridges, they have opened bathing- 
houses.’’ R. Jose said nothing, but R. Simeon b. Johai said: 
“All these things they have instituted for their own sake. 
Their markets are gathering-places for harlots; they have built 
baths for the purpose of indulging themselves in their comforts; 
they have built bridges to collect tolls from those who cross 
them.’’ Jehudah, the son of proselytes, went and reported this 
conversation, and it came to the ears of the government. Said 
(the rulers): ‘‘ Jehudah, who has praised (our doings), shall be 
promoted; Jose, who said nothing, shall be exiled to Sophoris; 
Simeon, who spoke disparagingly, shall be put to death.’’ R. 
Simeon and his son then went and hid themselves in the col- 
lege, and their wives brought them every day some bread and 
a pitcher of water, and they ate. When the decree became 
imperative, he said to his son: ‘‘ Women are of a pliant dispo- 
sition. They (the government agents) will perhaps trouble 
them, and they (the women) will reveal our whereabouts.”’ 
They then went and hid themselves in a cave. A miracle 
occurred, that a date tree and a spring of water came out for 
them. They stripped themselves naked and sat down covered 
with sand up to their necks. Thus they sat all day studying; 
only at the time of prayer they put on their garments, and after 
performing their devotion they took them off again for fear 
they might wear them out. In this wise they spent twelve 
years in their cave. Elijah then came to the opening of the 
cave and said: ‘‘ Who will inform the son of Johai that the 
Cesar (governor) is dead and his decree is annulled ?’’ Here- 
upon they left the cave. They then went forth and saw men 
who were ploughing and sowing grain. Said R. Simeon: 
““ These people leave the works which lead to everlasting life 
and occupy themselves with worldly things.’’ After this every 
place where they chanced to turn their eyes was burned. Sud- 
denly a ‘“‘ Bath-kol’’ (heavenly voice) was heard, which said 
unto them: “‘ Have ye come to destroy my world? Go, return 
to your cave.’ They returned and stayed in the cave another 
twelvemonth, saying the punishment of the wicked in Gehenna 
only lasts twelve months. At the end of that time came again 
the heavenly voice and said: ‘‘ Go out of the cave,’’ and they 
came out. And R. Simeon said to his son: “‘ It is enough for 
this world that I and you are occupied with the study of the 
Torah and with good deeds.’’ This happened on a Friday near 


58 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


sunset. They saw a man hurrying with two bunches of myrtle 
in his hand. ‘‘ What are they for?’’ they asked him. ‘‘ To 
honor the Sabbath,’’ was the reply. ‘‘ Would not one bunch 
be enough?” ‘‘ Nay; one is for the command ‘ remember,’ * 
the other for the command ‘ observe,’’”’ said the man. Said R. 
Simeon to his son: ‘‘ Behold, how Israel loves the commands 
(of God).’’ This reassured them. 

R. Simeon’s father-in-law, R. Pinhas b. Yair, heard (that 
they were coming) and went to meet them. He took them to 
the bath-house. While R. Simeon was cleaning his (own) 
body, R. Pinhas noticed that it was full of blisters; tears 
ran from his eyes when he saw this, and (the tears falling 
upon the flesh of his son-in-law) caused R. Simeon pain. 
Said R. Pinhas: ‘‘ Woe unto me, that I see thee in this 
state.’” R. Simeon rejoined: ‘‘ Well unto thee, that thou 
seest me so, for if thou hadst not seen me in this state thou | 
couldst not find in me (all the learning) that thou canst find in 
me now.”’ 

MISHNA V///.: One must say three things in his house on 
Friday, when it is getting dark—viz.: ‘' Have you set aside the 
tithes (from the fruit, which is to be eaten on the Sabbath) ra 
‘Have you put up the Erubh?”’ and “‘ Light ye the lamp.’’ 
When one is in doubt whether darkness has set in, he must not 
separate tithes from (fruit of which he is) certain (that tithes had 
not been set aside), and he shall not put vessels under process of 
lavation,+ and he shall not light a lamp any more. But he may 
set aside tithes from (fruit of which he is) not certain (that tithes 
have been set aside), and he may put up the Erubh and also put 
his victuals into the stove for the purpose of keeping them 
warm. 

GEMARA: Whence is this deduced? Said R. Joshua b. 
Levi: from [Job, v. 24] ‘‘ Thou shalt know that peace is in thy 
tent, and shalt examine thy dwelling, that thou mayest not 
sin.”’ Rabba b. R. Huna said: Although the masters have 
taught that ‘‘ one must say three things,”’ etc., yet he ought to say 
them quietly, in order that (his family) should accept them from 
him (in good grace). Said R. Ashi: “‘I have not heard of this 





*In the Decalogue of Exodus the fourth commandment begins with the word 
‘“Zakhor” (remember); in Deuteronomy it begins with the word ** Shamor”’ 
(observe). 

+ All new vessels must undergo a process of lavation before they can be used 
[Num. xxxi. 23]. 





TRACT SABBATH. 59 


saying of Rabba b. R. Huna before, yet I have always done so 
as a matter of common sense.”’ 

Does not the text contradict itself? It states: ‘‘ One must 
say three things, etc., when it is getting dark.’’ This implies 
that if he is in doubt whether it is getting dark or whether dark- 
ness has already set in, he cannot say it any longer. In the lat- 
ter part, however, it says ‘‘if he is in doubt, etc., he may put 
up an Erubh.’’ 

Said R. Aba in the name of R. Hyya b. Ashi, quoting Rabh: 
‘“‘It presents no difficulty. In the first part it speaks of an 
Erubh of Techum (that marks the boundary of two thousand 
ells around the city, where it is allowed for one to walk on Sab- 
bath); in the latter part it speaks of an Erubh by which the 
neighbors of adjoining courts make common cause.’’ 

Rabba said: The rabbis have prohibited putting victuals 
among things (that preserve but) that do not increase the heat 
after dark, for fear lest one find them too cold and be tempted 
to make them boil. Said Abayi to him: ‘* If such is the case, 
why did they not enact the same prohibition for (the time) when 
it is twilight also ?’” Answered Rabba: ‘‘ At that time the pots 
are generally boiling hot.’’ 

Rabba said again: ‘‘ Why was it said that one must not put 
victuals among things that increase the heat, when it is yet day, 
for fear lest one put them in cinders where there are yet live 
coals?’’ Said Abayi to him: ‘‘ What harm is there? let him 
do so.’’ And he answered: ‘‘ It may be feared lest he be 
tempted to stir the burning coals.’’ The rabbis taught: ‘* Which 
is the time of twilight ?’’ When the sun sets and the eastern 
sky is red; when the lower (edge of a cloud) is dark, while the 
upper part is not yet dark; but when the upper edge (of such 
a cloud) is as dark as the lower, night has set in. So says R. 
Jehudah. R. Nehemiah says: (The duration of twilight) is the 
time one takes to walk half a mile from the moment the sun 
sets. R. Jose says: Twilight is like the twinkling of an eye; 
the one (day) goes out, the other (night) comes in, and it is im- 
possible to determine it. And each of them is in accordance 
with his theory elsewhere; as it was taught: What is the dura- 
tion of twlight ? Rabba in the name of R. Jehudah, quoting 
Samuel, said: (The time it takes to walk) three-quarters of 
a mile; and R. Joseph said in the name of the same authority: 
Two-thirds of a mile. The difference between them is half 
a danka. (The contrary is the case when a bee-hive is con- 


60 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


cerned; in that case Rabba said: A bee-hive of two kurs* one 
may move on the Sabbath; of three, one shall not. R. Joseph, 
however, said that one may move even a hive of three kurs, but 
one of four is forbidden. Said Abayi: I have inquired of the 
master at the time of the deed, and he did not even permit me 
to move one of two kurs.) 

Rabha saw that Abayi was (one Friday) looking toward the 
east (to calculate the duration of twilight). Said he to him: 
“Dost thou think the masters spoke of the sky in the east ? 
They spoke of an object in the east that reflects the red sky (of 
the west), like a window (placed eastward of the setting sun), 

““It takes one to walk half a mile.’ Said R. Hanina: ‘‘ If 
one wishes to know the time according to R. Nehemiah’s calcu- 
lation, he should leave the sun (see it set) on the top of Karmel 
(a certain mountain peak on the sea-coast), go down, dive into 
the sea, and go up (the mountain) again; this will give him the 
exact time.’’ R. Jehudah, however, in the name of Samuel 
said: (To know the exact time of twilight may be fixed thus:) 
“If only one star (can be seen in the sky), it is yet day; if two 
stars, it is twilight; three stars, it is night.” And so also we 
have learned plainly in a Boraitha with the addition: Said R. 
Jose: The stars mentioned do not mean the big stars, that can 
be seen in daytime, and not the small stars, which cannot easily 
be seen at night, but stars of medium size. 

R. Jose b. R. Zebhida said: If one (unintentionally) per- 
forms work on both times of twilight (Friday and Sabbath), he 
must certainly bring a sin-offering (because at one of both times 
it was certainly Sabbath). 

Rabba said to his servant: ‘‘ You, who are not an expert in 
the scholarly calculation of time, must light the Sabbath lamp 
when you see the (last rays of the) sun on top of the trees. In 
cloudy weather how shall it be? (The lamp must be lit) in the 
city when the hens go to roost; in the field, when the ravens 
fly to roost or when the mallow shrub ¢ (inclines its head to the 
west). 

The rabbis taught: Six times was the signal blown on 
Friday: the first time to stop work in the field, the second to 





* Kur was an ancient measure and cannot be determined at the present time ; it 
may have been about three gallons. See Schoenhak’s ‘‘ Hamashbir.” A danka is 
a twelfth or a half of a sixth part. 

+ The mallow (Adana or Harna, see Arukh), more than any other plant, was be- 
lieved to incline its head toward the sun, like our own sunflower. 


TRACT SABBATH. 61 


stop it in the city.and in the stores, the third time to light the 
lamps. So said R, Nathan. R. Jehudah the Prince says that 
the third time is sounded to take off the phylacteries. Then 
(the beadle) waits about as long as is required to bake a small 
fish, or for bread to cleave to the oven, and he sounds again the 
three tones * of the signal in succession for the Sabbath (that is 
already come). R. Simeon b, Gamaliel said: ‘‘ What shall we 
do with the Babylonians? They sound the signal first, and 
then blow the trumpet; from the moment the trumpet is 
sounded they cease work.’’ They do so because it is with them 
a matter of inherited custom. 

R. Jehudah taught his son, R. Itz’hak: ‘‘ The third (sound- 
ing was a signal) to light the lamp.’’ This agrees with the 
ruling of R. Nathan. 

At the school of R. Ishmael it was taught: Six times the 
signal is sounded on Friday. When the first sounding begins, 
those who are in the field stop ploughing and harrowing and all 
field work. At the entrance to the city those who are near 
must wait until the distant (farmers) come, so that they enter 
the city all together. The stores are yet open, and the stalls 
(upon which wares are laid out) are as yet in their places. As 
soon as the second sounding begins, the stalls are cleared and 
the stores closed. The warm victuals (prepared for the Sab- 
bath) and the pots are as yet upon the hearth. As soon as the 
third sounding begins the pots are taken off the hearth, the 
warm victuals are put in the stove, and the lamps are lighted. 
Then (the beadle) waits about as long as it is required to bake 
a small fish or for bread to cleave to the oven, and he sounds 
trumpets and sounds the signal again and rests. Said R. Jose 
b. R. Haninah: ‘‘I have heard that if one wants to light up 
after the six signals he may do so, for the rabbis have allowed 
some time to the beadle to take his Shophar (horn) to the house 
(after the six signals). Said the schoolmen to him: ‘If such 
were the case, the subject would depend on various measure- 
ments of time.’’ Nay, but the beadle has a concealed place 
upon the roof (where he sounds the Shophar) and puts away his 
instrument (as soon as he has used it); because neither a Sho- 
phar nor a fife may be handled (when the Sabbath is come). 

But have we not learned that a Shophar may be handled, 





* The three tones of the Shophar are technically designated a ‘‘ Tekyah” (a long 
simple note): ‘‘ Teruah” (a slow trill), and ‘‘ Tekyah” again, See note to Rosh 
Hashana, p. 63, first edition. 


62 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


but a fife may not? Says R. Joseph: This is not contradictory. 
Our case is that of a Shophar belonging to the community; the 
case adduced treated of one that belongs to a private party 
(therefore it is permissible). 

Said Abayi: ‘‘ Why may a Shophar that is private prop- 
erty be handled? Because it is sometimes used for taking up 
water, to give a child drink; let one that is public property also 
be allowed to handle, because it may be used in the same man- 
ner.’’ Furthermore, was it not taught: ‘‘ As a Shophar may be 
handled, so also may the fife be handled?’’ According to 
whose ruling is this? There is no contradiction in all this. 
The one (that a Shophar may be handled, but not a fife) is 
according to the ruling of R. Jehudah. The other (that both 
may be handled) is according to the ruling of R. Simeon. The 
third (that neither should be handled) is according to the ruling 
of R. Nehemiah. ‘‘ And what is a Shophar?’’ The same as 
a fife, as R. Hisda says: ‘‘ Since the sanctuary was destroyed 
the names have become changed; a Shophar is called a fife, and 
a fife is called a Shophar.”’ 


CHAPTER fit. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING STOVES, HEARTHS, AND OVENS. 


MISHNA /.: Cooked victuals may be put ona stove that 
was heated with straw or stubble. If the stove was heated with 
the pulp of poppy seed (z.¢., poppy seed from which the oil was 
pressed out) or with wood, (cooked victuals) may not be put upon 
it, unless the (live) coals were taken out or covered with ashes. 
Beth Shamai says: (The latter instance) is permissible only in the 
case of victuals that are to be kept warm, but not of such as are 
- improved by continued cooking. Beth Hillel says: Both alike 
are permitted. Beth Shamai says: (Victuals) may be taken off 
the stove, but not put back upon it; Beth Hillel permits it. 

GEMARA: The schoolmen propounded a question: ‘‘ As 
for the expression ‘ shall not be put,’ does it (referring to a pot 
that has been taken off the stove) mean‘ one shall not put it 
back,’ but if it has not been taken off, it may be left there, even 
if the live coals were not cleared away or covered with ashes? 
Or does it mean that the pot should not be left there (even if it 
was standing there before) unless the live coals have been 
cleared out or damped, so much the more should it not be put 
there if it was once taken off ?’’ Comeand hear. There being 
two parts in our Mishna, if the point of controversy is the leav- 
ing (of the victuals on the stove, if they were there before), 
the Mishna is to be explained thus: On the stove that was 
heated with straw or with stubble the victuals may be left; on 
a stove that was heated with pressed poppy seed or with wood, 
the victuals may be left only if the live coals were taken out or 
covered with ashes. What kind of victuals may be left there ? 
According to Beth Shamai such as are to be kept warm, but not 
such as improve by cooking. And according to Beth Hillel 
both. Thus the point of controversy is the leaving of the vic- 
tuals (that had been on the stove before). And as the (two 
schools) differ in this matter, so do they also differ in their opin- 
ions concerning putting them back upon the stove if they were 
once taken off. But if you interpret the Mishna to make the 


64 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


returning of the victuals to the stove the point of their differing 
—viz., what kind of victuals should be returned (to the stove), 
according to the former such as are to be kept warm, but not 
such as improve by cooking, and according to the latter, both. 
(If you put such a construction upon the text of the Mishna,) to 
what purpose is it repeated ? ‘‘ Beth Shamai says,”’ etc. It may 
be said even that they differ concerning putting back, and never- 
theless there is no difficulty, as the Mishna is not complete, and 
should read thus: ‘‘If the stove was heated . . . but if 
they stood there before, they may be left there, even if the live 
coals are not taken out or covered with ashes.’’ And what may 
be left ? Beth Shamai says only such as are to be kept warm, 
and Beth Hillel says even victuals requiring cooking; but even 
in the case of returning (the victuals to the stove, if they have 
been removed) there is still a difference of opinion between the 
two schools, for according to the former they may be only taken 
off, and according to the latter they may be returned also. 

Come* and hear. R. Helbo in the name of R. Hama b. 
Gorion, quoting Rabh, said: ‘‘ The Mishna speaks only about 
putting the victuals upon the stove, but as to putting them into 
the stove it is surely prohibited.’’ Now, if thou sayest the dis- 
pute is about returning (the pot to the stove), this remark is 
correct, for there is a difference to what place it is returned, 
whether into the stove or upon it; but if the question were 
about keeping it on the stove while it is there, what difference 
would it make ? 

Do you think R. Helbo’s report refers to the first part of 
the Mishna? It refers to the second part, in which Beth Hillel 
allows it to be returned; and to this he says, even in this case, 
upon the stove it is permissible, but not into the stove. 

The schoolmen propounded a question: ‘‘ May (a pot with 
victuals) be placed so as to touch the side of the stove? Does 
the prohibition which holds good for putting it into or upon the 
stove apply also here, or is touching its side a different case ?”’ 
Come and hear. ‘‘ A stove that was heated with pressed poppy 
seed or wood may (be used) to put a pot alongside of, but not 
on, unless the live coals were taken out or covered with ashes.”’ 
If the coals get dim or fine hurds were put upon them, they are 
considered as if their fre was damped with ashes. R. Itz’hak 





* Here the disciple who advanced the later construction of the Mishna turns the 
tables on his interlocutor and brings forward an argument in favor of his suggestion, 
introducing it with the same words as the previous speaker in his argument. 


TRACT SABBATH. 65 


b. Na’hmani in the name of R. Oshia says: If the fire was 
damped and still it got a-glowing, victuals that are sufficiently 
warm, and cooked meats that require no more cooking, may 
be left standing upon it. 

Is it to be inferred from this that, if victuals are improved by 
shrivelling (upon the fire), they may be left there? This is 
a different case, for the fire was damped. If such is the case, 
what came R. Itz’hak to teach? ‘* Lest one say that if the fire 
got to glowing again, it is to be considered as a fire originally 
started ?’’ R. Itz’hak lets us know that, when once a fire has 
been damped, we need have no further scruples about letting 
the victuals remain on it. 

R. Shesheth said in the name of R. Johanan: Victuals that 
require additional warming or additional cooking may be left 
upon a stove that was heated with pressed poppy seed or with 
wood; but if they were once removed, they shall not be replaced 
unless the live coals were taken out or covered with ashes. He 
was of the opinion that our Mishna (treats) of replacing (a re- 
moved pot), but allows (a pot that was not removed) to be left 
on the stove, even if the live coals are not taken out or covered 
with ashes. Said Rabha: ‘‘ Were not both (propositions) ex- 
pounded in the Boraithoth (that were cited) ?’’ Aye, but R. 
Shesheth merely wishes to exhibit his construction of the text 
of the Mishna. 

R. Samuel b. Jehudah in the name of R. Johanan said: 
Upon a stove that was heated with pressed poppy seed or wood, 
victuals may be left standing, if they are sufficiently warmed 
and sufficiently cooked, even if shrivelling improvesthem. Said 
one of the schoolmen to him: ‘‘ Did not Rabh and Samuel both 
say that if shrivelling improves them, it is not allowed? And 
he answered: ‘‘ I said this in the name of R. Johanan and not 
in the name of the above mentioned, as I am aware of it.”” R. 
Ugqba of Mishan said to R. Ashi: ‘‘ You, who cherish the teach- 
ings of Rabh and Samuel, may follow their regulation, but we 

will follow the regulation of R. Johanan.”’ 
; Abayi questioned R. Joseph: May victuals be left (on the 
stove)? And he answered: Did not R. Jehudah leave (victuals 
on the stove), and eat them afterward? Rejoined Abayi: 
The case of R. Jehudah cannot be taken into consideration. 
He was stricken with a dangerous disease, and for him even (the 
cooking of victuals) on the Sabbath was permitted; but I ask 


about (healthy men like) youand me. R. Joseph answered: ‘‘ In 
VOL. L.—5 


66 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Sura they do leave. As R. Na’hman b. Itz’hak, who was ex- 
emplary in following religious ordinances, was wont to leave and 
to eat.’’ 

R. Ashi said: ‘‘ I was standing before R. Huna and observed 
that fried fish was kept (warm) for him and he ate it; but I 
know not whether (he did it) because he thought that victuals 
which improve by shrivelling are allowed, or whether he thought 
that, because there was flour on his fish, continuous warming 
did not improve it. 

R. Na’hman said: (Victuals) that improve by shrivelling must 
not (be left on the stove); such as deteriorate may. The rule 
is that all victuals which contain flour deteriorate by continuous 
warming. 

R. Hyya b. Ahba was questioned: ‘“‘ If one forgot his pot 
and left it upon the stove, and the victuals were thus cooked on 
the Sabbath, may he eat them or not ?’’ The master gave no 
answer. The next time he lectured: Victuals cooked on the 
Sabbath unintentionally may be eaten; intentionally not, but 
(as regards the pot that is forgotten on the stove) it makes no 
difference. 

What does (the phrase) ‘‘ it makes no difference’’ mean ? 
Rabba and R. Joseph both say that the phrase implies that it 
may be eaten, for one who cooks acts intentionally; but when 
forgotten there was no act, and therefore he may eat it. But 
R. Na’hman b., Isaac says the above phrase of ‘‘it makes no 
difference’’ implies a prohibition. In the case of cooking there 
is no fear of craft; therefore if he has done it unintentionally, 
he is not fined; but in the case of forgetting (the pot in the fire) 
craft may be feared (it means that he may put it in intentionally 
saying that he forgot), and therefore even if he actually forgets 
he is not allowed to eat the victuals. 

The schoolmen propounded a question: ‘‘ What about one 
who had intentionally left (his victuals upon the stove)? Do 
the rabbis fine him or not?’’ Come and hear. Samuel b. 
Nathan in the name of R. Hanina said: ‘‘ When R. Jose went 
to Ziporis, he found warm meats that had been left upon the 
stove, and he did not prohibit their use, but shrivelled eggs that 
had been left upon the stove he prohibited. Shall we not 
assume that he forbade their use even on that Sabbath as a 
fine? Nay, he forbade their use for the following Sabbath.”’ 

From this is to be inferred that shrivelled eggs improve by 
continuous heating. As R. Hama b. Hanina said: ‘‘ Rabbi and 





TRACT SABBATH. 67 


I were once stopping at a certain place. We were treated with 
eggs shrivelled like wild pears, and we ate many of them.’’ 

‘““Tt may also be put back.’’ RR. Shesheth said: The Tana 
who holds that the pot may also be put back (upon the stove) 
allows this (to be done) even on the Sabbath. R. Oshia is also 
of the same opinion, for thus he said: ‘‘ We were once standing 
before R. Hyya the Great; we served him with a bowl of warm 
(soup), which was brought from the lower floor (of the house), 
and we mixed a cup of wine for him, and (afterward) we returned 
it (the bowl) to its place, and he said nothing.’” And R. Hyya 
in the name of R. Johanan said: Even if (the warm pot taken 
off from the stove) was put upon the ground, it may (still be 
put back on the stove). Said Hyskiyah in the name of Abayi: 
‘* According to them who hold that if he puts it on the floor it 
may not be returned, it is said only when it was not his inten- 
tion to return it. But if it was, he may. And from this it is 
to be inferred that if it was still in his hand, although his inten- 
tion was not to place it again, he may do so on reconsideration.”’ 

MISHNA /Z.: (Victuals) shall not be put either inside or on 
top of an oven that was heated with straw or with stubble; a 
firing-pot that was heated with straw or with stubble is (con- 
sidered by the law) as a stone, but if it was heated with pressed 
poppy seed or with wood it is considered as an oven. 

GEMARA: A Boraitha teaches: If an oven was heated with 
straw or with stubble, (a pot with victuals) shall not be put close 
to it (so that it touch the oven), the less so upon it, and still 
less so into it; so much the less shall (a pot) be put (alongside of 
an oven) that was heated with poppy-seed pulp or with wood. 
If a firing-pot was heated with straw or with stubble, (a pot) 
may be put close to it, but not upon it; with poppy-seed pulp 
or with wood it must not be put close to it. Said R. Aha b. 
Rabha to R. Ashi: ‘‘ How shall the firing-pot be considered ? 
If it is like a stove, even if heated with poppy-seed pulp or with 
wood (a pot shall be allowed to be put close to it); and if it is 
like an oven it should not, even if it is heated with stubble or 
straw ?’’ Answered he: It contains more heat than a stove 
and less heat than an oven. 

What is a firing-pot and what isa stove? Said R. Jose b. 
Hanina: ‘‘ A firing-pot has an opening on the top upon which 
only one pot can be set; a stove has openings upon which two 
pots can be set at a time.”’ 


MISHNA ///.: An egg shall not be put close to a boiler to 


68 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


get it settled, nor must it be wrapped in a hot cloth. R. Jose 
permits it; also it must not be put into hot sand or in the (hot) 
dust of the road that it be roasted (by the heat of the sun). It 
once happened that the inhabitants of Tiberias had laid a pipe 
of cold water through the arm of their hot springs. But the 
sages explained to them that on the Sabbath this water is con- 
sidered like any other warmed on the Sabbath, and must not 
be used either for washing or drinking; and should this be done 
on a feast day, it is like water heated by fire, which may be used 
for drinking only, but not for washing. 

GEMARA: The schoolmen questioned: How is it if one 
has done so with an egg? Said R. Joseph: He is liable for 
a sin-offering. Said Mar b. Rabhina: This is to be understood 
also from the following Boraitha: Everything that was in hot 
water before the Sabbath may be soaked in hot water on the 
Sabbath; things that were not in hot water before the Sabbath 
may only be rinsed in it, excepting old herrings and Spanish 
(salted) fish, because with these, rinsing completes their prepara- 
tion. (The same is the case with an egg; the settling com- 
pletes.) 

‘““ Nor shall it be wrapped,’’ etc. Now, the Mishna which 
states: ‘‘ Cooked victuals may be put into a pit for preserva- 
tion; drinking water into cold bad water to cool; cold victuals 
in the sun to warm.’’ Shall we assume that it is in accordance 
with R. Jose and not with the sages? Said R. Na’hman: As to 
the heat of the sun, all agree that it is allowed; the outcome of 
heating by fire, all agree that it is prohibited. The point of 
their differing is the outcome of sun-heating. The one master 
holds that the use of such heat is prohibited for fear lest one 
use also the heat that is generated by fire; the other master 
does not impose such a precautionary measure. 

“* It happened that the inhabitants of Tiberias,’’ etc. R. Hisda 
said: With the prohibition by the rabbis of the act of the Tibe- 
rians they have also abolished the permission to heat on Friday, 
even when it is yet day, in such places as increase heat. Said 
Ulla: ‘‘ The Halakha prevails according to the Tiberians.’’ 
Rejoined R. Na’hman: ‘‘ The Tiberians themselves have already 
destroyed their pipes.’’ ‘‘ Washing with warm water,’’ how is 
this to be understood? The whole body? Is this prohibited 
only with water that was warmed on Sabbath? Is it not the 
same even when it was warmed on the eve of Sabbath? As the 
following Boraitha states: ‘‘ With water which was warmed on the 


TRACT SABBATH. 69 


eve of Sabbath, on the morrow one may wash his face, hands, 
and feet, but not the whole body. And if it means the face, 
etc., how is the latter part to be understood ?’’ ‘‘If it was 
warmed on a feast day,”’ etc. 

Shall we then assume that our Mishna states in accordance 
with Beth Shamai, as they so state plainly elsewhere, to 
which the Beth Hillel opposed and permitted? Said R. lyqa 
b. Hanina: Our Mishna treats of washing the entire body, and it 
is in accordance with the Tana of the following Boraitha: ‘‘ One 
shall not rinse his entire body (on the Sabbath) either with 
warm or with cold water.’’ So is the decree of R. Mair, but 
R. Simeon permits this. R. Hisda says their dispute concerns 
only (water that is) in the ground; but water contained in a 
vessel is strictly prohibited. 

Rabba b. b. Hana in the name of R. Johanan said: ‘‘ The 
Halakha prevails according to R. Jehudah.’’ Said R. Joseph 
to him: ‘‘ Didst thou hear this explicitly, or dost thou derive it 
by inference (from a similar teaching) ?’’ ‘“‘ I have heard it ex- 
plicitly,’’ he answered. 

It was taught: If water was warmed on Friday, Rabh said 
one may wash his entire body in it on the next day, every mem- 
ber separately (z.¢., not plunge into it at once). Samuel, how- 
ever, said: It was not allowed but of the face, hands, and feet. 
And the following Boraitha supports Samuel: ‘‘ If water was 
warmed on Friday, one may wash his face, hands, and feet with 
it on the following day, but not his entire body, even member 
by member; and so much less with water warmed on a feast 
day. 

Said R. Joseph to Abayi: ‘‘ Did Rabba not act according to 
the decisions of Rabh?’’ ‘‘ I know not,’’ he answered. 

The rabbis taught: A bath-house, the openings of which 
were stopped up on Friday (so that the heat should not escape), 
may be used for bathing immediately after the Sabbath is over. 
If its openings were stopped up on the eve of a feast day, one 
may, on the next day, enter it to have a sweat, but he must 
leave it and rinse his hands in an adjoining room. R. Jehudah 
said: It happened in a bath-house of the city of B’nai Beraq, 
that its openings were stopped up on the eve of a feast day. 
The next day R. Eliezer b. Azariah and R. Aqiba entered it 
and took a sweat; then they left it and rinsed their bodies in 
the adjoining room; but the warm water in it had been covered 
with boards. When the report of this reached the masters they 


qo THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


said, even if the warm water had not been covered with boards, 
they were also allowed (to do so), However, since transgress- 
ing began to increase, they began to prohibit. In bath-houses 
of large cities one may walk about without fear of people’s say- 
ing that he went to take a sweat. 

What does the expression ‘‘ transgressing’’ mean? As R. 
Simeon b. Pazi in the name of R. Joshua b. Levi, quoting bar 
Qapara, said: In former times the people were accustomed to 
bathe (on the Sabbath) in water that was warmed on Friday. 
The bath-keepers then began to warm the water on the Sab- 
bath, and to tell the people that it had been warmed on Friday. 
Hereupon they prohibited bathing in warm water, but still they 
placed no restriction upon taking a sweating (in the bath-room). 
The people then would come and bathe, but pretend to merely 
take a sweating. Then sweating was also prohibited, but wash- 
ing in the hot spring water of Tiberias was still allowed. The 
people, however, would come and wash themselves in water 
that was warmed by the fire and say that they washed in the 
hot spring water. Subsequently warm water was prohibited for 
bathing altogether, but bathing in cold water was allowed. See- 
ing that people could not stand the last prohibition, it was there- 
fore revoked, and bathing in the hot spring water of Tiberias 
was allowed. The prohibition of the sweating bath, however, 
remained. The rabbis taught: One may warm himself by a 
hearth-fire and afterwards rinse himself with cold water, but not 
bathe first in cold water and then warm himself by a hearth-fire, 
because he warms the water that is on him. 

The rabbis taught: One may warm a sponging-cloth and put 
it upon his bowels (on the Sabbath), but he must not do so with 
a boiling hot vessel, for this is dangerous even on week days. 

The rabbis taught: One may put a pitcher of water before 
a blazing fire, not to warm it, but to temper the coldness of the 
water. R. Judah said: A woman may put an oil flask before 
a blazing fire, not to boil it, but merely to temper it. R. 
Simeon b. Gamaliel says: A woman may unhesitatingly put oil 
on her hand, warm it before the fire, and anoint her little son 
with it without any fear. 

Said R. Judah in the name of Samuel: Whether it be oil or 
water, if the hand is spontaneously withdrawn from it (feeling 
the scald) it is prohibited, but not otherwise. And what extent 
of heat is meant by it? Said Rabba: If the belly of a child is 
scalded by it. 


‘TRACT SABBATH. 71 


R. Itz’hak b. Abhdimi said: ‘‘I once followed Rabbi into 
the bath-house (on the Sabbath). I wanted to put a bottle of 
oil for him into the tank (that contained hot spring water). Said 
he unto me: ‘‘ Take out some warm water from the tank and 
put it into another vessel (to warm the oil in). From this we 
have inferred three things—viz,: First, that oil improves by 
warming, and it is a prohibited act; second, that if anything is 
put into a second vessel (not directly into the boiling vessel) it 
is not considered cooking; third, that the mere tempering of 
oil is analogous to cooking it. 

Said Rabhina: From this story it may be inferred that if 
one cooks in the hot spring water of Tiberias on the Sabbath 
he is culpable, for the case happened after the rabbis had im- 
posed the precautionary measure, and yet Rabbi would not 
allow him (R. Itz’hak) to put the oil directly into the tank. Is 
that so? Did not R. Hisda say that he who has cooked in the 
hot spring water of Tiberias is not culpable? The culpability to 
be inferred (from the case of Rabbi) extends only as far as blows 
of correction * are concerned. : 

R. Zera said: ‘‘ I have seen R. Abuhu swimming in a tank, 
and I know not whether he raised (his feet from the ground) or 
not. Is it not self-evident that he did not raise them, as there 
is a Boraitha: One shall not swim about in a pond, even if (that 
pond) is stationed in a yard. This presents no difficulty. Ina 
pond it is prohibited, because it is similar to a river, while in a 
tank it is allowed, because it is similar to a vessel.+ 

R. Zera once found R. Jehudah in the bath. He (R. Jehu- 
dah) ordered his servant (in the Hebrew Aramaic tongue): 
‘“ Bring me the comb; hand me the soap; open your mouths, 
and exhale the warm air from within you; drink of the (warm) 
water of the bath.’’ Said R. Zera: ‘‘ If I had not come but to 
hear ¢hzs, it were enough for me.”’ 

It is correct that he ordered things in the Hebrew language, 
as private affairs may be said in the same language. The same 
is with the second order, for Samuel said that heat (from with- 
out) drives out heat (from within). But what good is in the 
order, ‘* Drink of the water of the bath’’ ? It is also correct, as 
we have learned in the following Boraitha: ‘‘ If one washed 





* “ Blows of correction” were inflicted by the rabbis not for an actual sin, but 
for disobedience to the laws enacted. 

+ We have translated in accordance with Rashi’s second view, as it seems to us to 
be correct, 


72 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


himself with warm water and did not drink of it, he is like an 
oven that was heated from without but not from within.’’ 

MISHNA /V.: The hot water contained in a ‘‘ Muliar”’ 
(caldron), the live coals of which have been cleared away before 
the Sabbath set in, may be used on the Sabbath; but the hot 
water contained in an ‘‘ Antikhi’’ (another kind of kettle), even 
if cleared of live coals, is not to be used on the Sabbath. 

GEMARA: What is a Muliar? A Boraitha states: ‘It is 
a vessel provided with an attachment for live coals, used for 
keeping water’’; as for an Antikhi, Rabba says it is a Bekiri 
(a vessel similar to a Muliar, but of heavier construction and 
continually in use). R.Na’hman b. Itz’hak says: It is a Bedude 
(a large kettle with an attachment underneath for live coals). 
There is a Boraitha in support of the opinion of R. Na’hman: 
‘“The hot water in an Antikhi, even if the coals thereof are 
cleared away or damped, is not permitted to be used, for the 
heavy bottom keeps the heat.’’ 

MISHNA V..: Into a kettle, the hot water of which has 
been spilt out and which has been removed from the fire, cold 
water is not permitted to be poured, for the purpose of heating; 
but it is permitted to pour water into the kettle, or into a cup, 
for the purpose of making such water lukewarm. 

GEMARA: Howis this to be understood? Said Abayi: It 
means thus: ‘‘ Into a kettle, the fire of which has been removed, 
which still contains hot water, a small quantity of cold water 
may not be poured, for the purpose of warming; but a large 
quantity, to make the hot water lukewarm is, however, per- 
mitted. Into a kettle, the hot water of which has been entirely 
removed, no cold water at all may be poured, because it tem- 
pers the vessel. And it is in accordance with R. Jehudah, who 
holds that an act which pleases one, if done even unintentionally, 
is prohibited. 

Said Rabh: ‘‘ Even the above-mentioned large quantity is 
allowed only to make the water lukewarm; but not such a quan- 
tity as will entirely neutralize the hot water and tend to temper 
the vessel.’’ Samuel, however, permits any quantity. 

Shall we assume that Samuel is in accordance with R. Simeon 
(who opposes the above theory of R. Jehudah), but did he not 
say that it is permitted to extinguish live dross on public ground 
(to prevent injury), but not charcoal? And if he agrees with 
R. Simeon, this also should be permitted? As regards labor 
tending to the accomplishment of a work (prohibited on the 


TRACT SABBATH. 73 


Sabbath), he holds with R. Simeon; but as to the performance 
of labor, not for its own sake, he sides with R. Jehudah. Said 
Rabina: ‘‘ Since it is permitted to perform labor (prohibited by 
rabbinical law), in order to prevent injury, it is also permitted 
to remove thorns from public ground, little by little, in dis- 
tances of less than four ells at a time (in order to prevent 
injury); but upon unclaimed ground it may be done in greater 
distances.”’ . 

‘ But it is permitted,’ etc. The rabbis taught: One may 
pour hot water upon cold, but not cold upon hot water, so is 
the decree of Beth Shamai; Beth Hillel, however, allows both 
ways, provided a cup is used; but in a bathing-tub hot water 
upon cold is permitted, but cold water upon warm is not. But 
R. Simeon b. Menassiah forbids it. And Na’hman said that so 
the Halakha prevails. R. Joseph was about to say that a 
bucket is under the same ruling as a bathing-tub. Said Abayi 
to him: ‘‘So taught R. Hyya, that a bucket is not in this 
category.”’ 

Said R. Huna b. R. Joshua: ‘‘ I observed that Rabha was 
not scrupulous with regard to the use of vessels, because R. 
Hyya taught, one may put a pitcher of water into a bucket of 
water; it makes no difference whether it be hot water into cold 
or vice versa.’’ Said R. Huna to R. Ashi: ‘‘ Perhaps this was 
a ‘different case altogether, it being that there was a vessel within 
avessel!’’ But the latter retorted: ‘‘ It says: ‘To empty’; as 
it was taught: It is permitted to empty out a pitcher of water 
into a bucket of water, be it either warm water into cold or vice 
versa.” 

MISHNA V7: In a saucepan or a pot that was removed 
from the fire, no spices shall be put after dusk (on Friday); but 
spices may be put into a plate or a bowl. R. Jehudah is of the 
opinion that spices may be put in all vessels or cooking utensils 
except in such as contain vinegar or fish brine. 

GEMARA: The schoolmen propounded the following ques- 
tion: Does R. Jehudah refer to the first part of the Mishna, 
which is lenient, or does he refer to the latter part, which is 
rigorous? Come and hear. We have learned in a Boraitha 
that R. Jehudah says: “‘ One may put (spices) into all sauce- 
pans and cooking-pots, except such as contain vinegar and fish 
brine.”’ 

R. Joseph was about to say that salt comes under the same 
ruling as spices, because in his opinion salt becomes cooked.in a 


74 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


first vessel (7.e., the vessel used for cooking), but not ina second 
vessel. Said Abayi to him: R. Hyya distinctly taught that 
salt does not come under the ruling applicable to spices, because 
it does not become cooked, even in a first vessel. This is cor- 
roborated by R..Na’hman, who said: There is a saying that the 
dissolving of salt requires thorough boiling, the same as beef. 

MISHNA V/IZ.: It is not permitted to place a vessel under 
a lamp so that the oil of the lamp drip into it. If a vessel was 
placed-under a lamp before the Sabbath set in, it may remain 
there; but the use of such oil on the same Sabbath is not per- 
mitted, as it was not previously prepared. 

GEMARA: Said R. Hisda: ‘‘ Although it was said that the 
placing of a vessel under a hen (laying on sloping ground) to 
receive the egg is forbidden, yet to cover the egg so as to pre- 
vent it from being crushed is permitted.” 

Said Rabba: The reason of R. Hisda is because he holds 
that hens being in the habit of laying eggs on level ground, in 
order to prevent the egg from being stepped upon, it is per- 
mitted to cover it with a vessel; but as hens are not in the habit 
of laying eggs on sloping ground, the placing of a vessel under 
the hen to receive the egg was not allowed. 

Abayi objected to this, stating: ‘‘ Were we not taught in 
the Mishna that it is permitted to place a vessel under a lamp 
in order to take up the (dropping) sparks?’’ (This seldom 
occurs and therefore it is permitted.) He was told that the 
dropping of sparks by a lamp is also of frequent occurrence. 

R. Joseph, commenting on the statement of R. Hisda, gave 
another reason—viz.: That the vessel (placed under a hen to 
receive an egg) is made useless for that same Sabbath. 

‘“Abayi raised the same objection, (intending to) prove by it 
that the vessel placed under a lamp is also made useless on that 
same Sabbath, and R. Huna b. R. Joshua answered: ‘‘ Sparks 
have nothing substantial about them (therefore the vessel con- 
taining them is not made useless on the same Sabbath).”’ 

R. Itz’hak said: In the same manner as it is not permitted 
to place a vessel under a laying hen, so is it also not permitted 
to cover the egg laid; for the reason that a vessel must not be 
handled on the Sabbath except for the use of such things as are 
themselves permitted to be handled on the Sabbath. 

All the objections of Abayi being raised against R. Itz’hak’s 
statements, he answered: ‘‘In that case there was a lack of 
space.’’ (If the space occupied by a vessel is needed, that ves- 


TRACT SABBATH. 5 


‘sel may be removed, and while being removed may be used for 
any purpose.) 

Come and hear (another objection). An egg laid on’ the Sab- 
bath or a festival, to prevent it from being (accidentally) cracked, 
may be covered with a vessel? Here the case is, also, when 
the space where the vessel is placed is needed. 

Said R. Shesheth (to his disciples): Go ye and tell R. Itz’hak 
that the above doctrine has already been interpreted by R. Huna 
in Babylon as follows: It is permitted to make a partition on 
the Sabbath, to (isolate) a corpse for the sake of the living, but 
it is not permitted to make a partition for the sake of the corpse. 
How is the latter clause to be understood? R. Samuel b. 
Jehudah and also Shila Mari taught: In the case of a corpse 
lying in the sun (on the Sabbath), (to prevent the corpse from 
decomposing) two persons are brought to sit on the floor, each 
on one side (in order to bring about the making of a screen). 
When the ground underneath them becomes hot, each of them 
is to bring a cot bed to sit upon, and when the heat above them 
becomes excessive, they are to bring a sheet and spread it over 
their heads (leaving part of the sheet loose); both now raise 
their cots (which take up the loose part of the sheet) and move 
to their former positions; thus a screen (canopy) is formed of 
itself. 

It was taught: “‘ A corpse lying in the sun.’’ R. Jehudah 
in the name of Samuel says: The same must be turned over 
from one bed into another, until it arrives at a shady place. 
R. Hinna b. Shalmi in the name of Rabh said: A loaf of bread 
or an infant should be put on the corpse and then the corpse 
may be moved. There is no difference of opinion as to the 
removal of a corpse (on the Sabbath), which is permitted when 
a loaf or an infant is put upon it; they differ only where there 
is none. One holds that indirect transportation must be con- 
sidered transportation, and the other opines that indirect trans- 
portation is not transportation (and therefore permitted): 

Shall we assume that on this point the following Tanaim 
differ? ‘‘It is not permitted to save a corpse from a fire.’’ 
R. Jehudah b. Lakish, however, says: ‘‘I have heard that it 
may be done.’’ How is the case if there was a loaf of bread or 
an infant? Why should the first Tana prohibit it? And if 
there was none, what is the reason of Lakish’s decision? Do 
they not differ in the point of transportation stated above ? 
Nay; all agree that such a transportation is considered; thé 


76 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


.reason, however, of Ben Lakish is that usually one is concerned 

about his dead, and if it would not be permitted to remove it, 
he will extinguish the fire. Said R. Jehudah b. Shilah in the 
name of R. Ashi, quoting R. Johanan: The Halakha prevails 
according to Ben Lakish concerning a corpse. 

MISHNA V//I.: A new lamp may be handled on the Sab- 
-bath, but not an old one; R. Simeon, however, says all lamps 
are permitted to be handled except such as are still burning. 

GEMARA: The rabbis taught: A new lamp may be han- 
dled, but not an old one; such is the decree of R. Jehudah. 

R. Mair, however, says that all lamps may be moved, except 
a lamp which was lit for the Sabbath (though the light is extin- 
guished); but R. Simeon says, except a lamp which is still burn- 
ing. If extinguished, it may be moved; but a goblet, bowl, or 
lantern (used as lamps, must not be removed from their respec- 
tive places). R. Eliezer b. R. Simeon, says: It is permitted to 
make use of an extinguished lamp and of the oil dripping from 
it, even while the lamp is burning. 

Said Abayi: R. Eliezer b. Simeon holds in one case to the 
opinion of his father, but differs with him in the other. He 
holds with his father in disregarding Muktza (designation),* and 
differs with him in the other case; for his father is of the opin- 
ion that when a lamp is extinguished it may be moved, but not 
while it is burning; but he is of the opinion that even a burning 
Jamp may be moved. ‘‘ But a goblet, bowl, or lantern must 
not.’’ Wherein do these things differ from the others? Said 
Mar Zutra: R. Simeon allows a small lamp (to be handled), 
because one will wait until it is extinguished (and then it may 
be used for another purpose); but these are large, and not apt 
to become extinguished for some time. R. Zera said: All the 
schoolmen agree on prohibiting the handling of a candelabrum 
which had been lit up on Sabbath, but the handling of the can- 
delabrum which was not lit up on the Sabbath is unanimously 
permitted. 

R. Jehudah in the name of Rabh said: ‘‘ It is not permitted 
to handle a bed that has been designated as a place to put 
money in, if the money had already previously been placed upon 
it (on Friday during twilight even if on the Sabbath xo money 





* Muktza (designation) refers to such objects as are set aside and designated for 
non-use on the Sabbath. Thus, all materials that are used in the performance of 
manual labor (prohibited on the Sabbath) are called Muktza. R. Simeon, however, 
holds there is no such thing as Muktza. 


TRACT SABBATH. 77 


was on the bed). If the money, however, had not previously 
been deposited on the bed, the handling is permitted. Ifa bed 
was not designated for the keeping of money, but contained 
money, it must not be handled. If it contained no money, it 
may (providing no money was deposited on the bed during twi- 
light of the preceding Friday). And Rabh says this because he 
holds with R. Jehudah concerning Muktza. 

And it seems that so is the case, as Rabh said one may place 
a lamp upon a palm tree at any time while it is yet day on 
Friday, in order that it may burn on the Sabbath; but one may 
not put a lamp upon the same on a biblical feast day. (It is 
permitted to place a lamp on a palm tree on the Sabbath 
because there is no fear of the tree, which is Muktza [desig- 
nated], being used; but on a biblical feast day it is prohibited 
for fear that one while depositing or removing the lamp will 
also use the palm tree; and that is prohibited.) 

And this is correct only in accordance with the theory of 
R. Jehudah; but should Rabh hold with R. Simeon, why does. 
he make a distinction between the Sabbath and a biblical feast 
day? The law of Muktza does not exist at all according to 
R. Simeon. 

Is that so? Did not Rabh decide, when he was questioned 
whether one may remove an extinguished ’ Hanukah light on the 
Sabbath for fear of the Magi (this has already been mentioned 
in a previous connection), that it may be done? The time of 
danger is different.* R. Kahana and R. Assi then questioned 
him: ‘* Does the Halakha so prevail?’’ and he answered: 
““R. Simeon is worthy to be relied upon in times of danger.”’ 

Resh Lakish questioned R. Johanan: ‘‘ May wheat that has 
been sown but that has not yet sprouted, or eggs that are still 
under the hen, be eaten on the Sabbath? Does he (R. Simeon) 
disregard the law of Muktza only in such cases where the objects 
were put aside with no intention of ever being used again, or 
does he disregard Muktza under all circumstances ?’’ He(R. 
Johanan) replied: ‘‘ There is no Muktza in his theory but the 
oil in a burning lamp, because if poured in a lamp for the pur- 
pose of keeping the Sabbath-light commandment it is designated 
for that express function, and as it is not permitted to extin- 
guish that light, the intention not to use the oil for any other 
purpose is self-evident. But does not R. Simeon hold that the 





* The Talmud here refers to Persian festivals, when the burning of lights was 
prohibited except in sacred shrines. 


78 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


same is the case with other things which were designated for 
their religious purposes? Is it not a fact that the ornaments of 
the tabernacle on that festival must not be used, even in accord- 
ance with R. Simeon’s theory? As R. Hyya b. R. Joseph 
taught in the presence of R. Johanan: ‘‘ One must not remove 
wood from a booth on any biblical feast day, but he may remove 
it from any place near by? R. Simeon, however, permits this 
to be done. Still, they a// agree that wood must not be 
removed from a booth built expressly for that feast, on all the 
seven feast days. However, if there was a stipulation it may be 
done accordingly ’’ (because the wood is set aside for the ritual 
purpose). Hence even according to him the designation for 
ritual purposes must not be used. Why, then, is this different 
from the oil in question? The Boraitha is to be understood 
thus: All the ornaments of the booth in question are prohibited 
so far as all things bearing similitude to the oil in the burning 
lamp are concerned. And so also it was taught by R. Hyya b. 
Abba in the name of R. Johanan, that there is no Muktza in 
the theory of R. Simeon, but in cases which are similar to the 
oil of the lamp while burning, being designated for the ritual 
purpose, they are also designated not to be used. Said R. 
Jehudah in the name of Samuel: ‘‘ In the opinion of R. Simeon 
no law of Muktza exists except in the case of raisins and dates 
which were placed on the roof to be dried.’’ (In such a case 
there certainly was no intention to use them on the same Sab- 
bath.) Said Rabba b. b. Hana in the name of R. Johanan: 
“It was said the law remains in accordance with R. Simeon. 
When R. Itz’hak b. R. Joseph, however, came from Palestine, 
he said in the name of R. Johanan that the law (of Muktza) 
according to R. Jehudah prevails, and R. Jehoshua b. Levi said 
the law prevails with R. Simeon. Said R. Joseph: Now is 
understood what Rabba b. b. Hana said in name of R. Johanan, 
wt was said that the Halakha prevails according to R. Simeon, 
which means that R. Johanan himself did not agree with their 
decision. Said Abayi to R. Joseph: ‘‘ Didst thou not know 
before this that R. Johanan holds with the opinion of R. Jehu- 
dah? Is it not a fact that when R. Abba and R. Assi met in 
the house of R. Abba of the city of Heifa and a candelabrum 
fell upon the coat of R. Assi, he (R. Assi) did not remove it ? 
Was it not because he was a disciple of R. Johanan and acted 
according to the opinion of his master ?’’ Answered R. Joseph: 
“Thou art speaking of a candelabrum., A candelabrum is a 


TRACT SABBATH, 79 


different matter altogether, for R. Ahai b. Hanina in the name 
of R. Assi said: Resh Lakish has decided in Zidon, a candela- 
brum which can be removed with one hand may be handled, but 
if it has to be removed with both hands it may not; and R. 
Johanan said: We only hold with R. Simeon in the matter of 
alamp; but as fora candelabrum, whether it can be removed 
with one or both hands, it is prohibited. And why so? Both 
Rabba and R. Joseph said: Because a separate place must be 
designated for it. 

Said Abayi to R. Joseph: ‘‘ Have we not observed the case 
of a baldaquin prepared for a bride and groom, for which a place 
must be designated? And yet Samuel said in the name of 
R. Hyya that such may be put up and taken apart on the Sab- 
bath.’’ Said Abayi: The prohibition to handle the candelabrum 
holds good only in a case where the same is made of several 
parts. If this be the case, what reason has R. Simeon b. Lakish 
for allowing this? Say: Not a candelabrum made of various 
parts, but if it looks “ke a candelabrum of various parts. There- 
fore a candelabrum made of several parts, be it large or small, 
must not be handled. The handling of a large candelabrum, 
even if not made of several parts, is also prohibited on account 
of its marked lines, for fear one may handle such as are made 
of several parts. And the point of their differing is: With a 
small candelabrum which looks as if made of several parts, one 
takes the precautionary measure lest one handle that which is 
really made of several parts, while the other does not care for 
such a precaution. 

R. Malkia chanced to be in the house of R. Simlai and 
handled a candlestick, the light in which had been extinguished, 
and R. Simlai became angry on that account. R. Jose the 
Galilean happened to be in the town of R. Jose b. Hanina and 
did the same, whereupon R. Jose b. Hanina became angry. 
R. Abuhu, however, when he happened to be in the place of 
R. Jehoshua b. Levi, handled, but when he came to the place 
of R. Johanan he did not handle a candlestick in question out of 
respect to R. Johanan. R. Jehudah said: A lamp which has 
been filled with oil may be handled after the light has been 
extinguished (because it emits no bad odor), but one which con- 
tained naphtha may not be handled (on account of its bad odor). 
Both Rabba and R. Joseph also permit this. 

R. Avia once came to the house of Rabha with muddy shoes 
and sat on the bed in the presence of the latter. This made 


80 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Rabha angry, and he tried to disconcert R. Avia with questions. 
Said he (Rabha): ‘‘ Can you tell me why Rabba and R. Joseph 
both said that a lamp filled with naphtha may be handled ?’’ 
Answered R. Avia: ‘‘ The reason of their decision is because 
the lamp is fit to cover a vessel with after being extinguished.”’ 
And he rejoined: ‘‘ If this is so, one may also handle shavings 
scattered in the yard, because they also can be used to cover 
a vessel with.’’ Answered R. Avia: ‘‘ A lamp, being a vessel 
itself, can be used to cover other things with, but shavings are 
not vessels in themselves and therefore cannot be used singly as 
covers ’’ (and brought a Boraitha which states that nose jewels, 
rings, etc., are considered among the vessels which may be 
handled on Sabbath, and Ulla explained the reason why, because 
they are considered as vessels). Said R. Na’hman b. Itz’hak: 
‘“ Praised be the Lord that Rabha did not put R. Avia to 
shame.”’ 

Abayi pointed out to R. Joseph the following contradiction: 
‘“ Did R. Simeon say that a light may be handled only when 
extinguished, but if burning it must not be handled? For what 
reason? Because there is a chance of extinguishing it while it 
is being handled ?’’ Have we not learned that R. Simeon said: 
‘* An act which is committed unintentionally is permissible.’’ 
Such is the decision of R. Simeon? (This presents no diffi- 
culty.) One must not take chances with an act which, if done 
intentionally, would cause a violation of a biblical ordinance; 
but if the violation would be only that of a rabbinical ordinance, 
chances may be taken. 

Objected Rabha: ‘‘ We have learned: Dealers in clothing may 
sell clothes made of wool and cotton mixed. They are per- 
mitted to try on such clothes or to carry them (temporarily) on 
their shoulders, provided the intention to use them as a protec- 
tion against the sun and rain does not exist. Now, the wearing 
of a mixture of wool and cotton is biblically prohibited, still 
R. Simeon permits it to be done temporarily. Therefore said 
Rabha: ‘‘ Discard the case of the lamp, oil, and wick; there is 
another reason entirely—viz., because one becomes a basis of 
a thing the handling of whch is in itself prohibited (z.¢., the 
light in itself cannot be handled).’’ 

Said R. Zera in the name of R. Assi, quoting R. Johanan, 
who said in the name of R. Hanina that he was told by R. 
Romnas: ‘‘ Rabbi permitted me to handle a pan containing 
glowing ashes.’’ 


TRACT SABBATH. 81 


And R. Zera himself was deliberating: Did indeed R. Johanan 
say so? Have we not heard that Rabba b. b. Hana said in his 
(R. Johanan’s) name, referring to our Mishna, which states that 
aman may handle a box containing a stone: *‘ He may do so 
providing the box also contains fruit.’”’ How, then, could R. 
Johanan permit a pan with glowing ashes to be handled?’”’ R. 
Assi was astounded for some time, but finally answered: ‘*‘ The 
pan referred to still contained some grains of incense.”’ 

But Rabha said: While we were in R. Na’hman’s house we 
handled a fire-pot on account of its ashes (the ashes were needed 
for some purpose, therefore the pot was allowed to be handled), 
although there were some broken sticks of wood upon it. 

The schoolmen raised the following objection: R. Simeon 
and R. Jehudah agree that if there are broken pieces of wick in 
alamp, it is prohibited to handle the lamp. Said Abayi: “‘ This 
was taught in Galilea’’ (Galilea is a state where linen cloth is 
scarce, for which reason the broken pieces of wick are valuable, 
and the lamp, being the receptacle of prohibited valuables, is 
not permitted to be handled on the Sabbath). 

Levi, the son of Samuel, met R. Abba and R. Huna the 
son of Hyya standing at the entrance of R. Huna’s house; and 
Levi questioned: ‘‘ Is it allowed to fold the beds of travelling 
coppersmiths on a Sabbath?’’ They answered: ‘* Yea.’’ In 
allowing this the two rabbis held with (the opinion of R. Simeon 
b. Gamaliel in a) following Boraitha: It is not permitted to put 
together a bed which has been taken apart; but if one did so, 
he is not culpable. One must not fasten the bed with pegs, 
but if he did so he only lays himself liable to bring a sin-offer- 
ing. R. Simeon b. Gamaliel, however, said: ‘‘ If the bed was 
loose it may be fastened,”’ 

R. Hama had a folding-bed in his house. He put it together 
on a biblical feast day, and one of the young rabbis questioned 
Rabha: ‘‘ What reason is to be found for this act ? Is it because 
of indirect building; granted that there is no biblical prohibition 
to this effect, there surely is a rabbinical ?’’ Answered Rabha: 
‘* I think that the reason is the decision of R. Simeon b. Gama- 
liel (with whom I agree) that it is permissible to put a bed 
together if the bed is loose.’’ 

MISHNA LYX.: One may put a vessel underneath a lamp for 
the purpose of receiving the sparks falling from the lamp, but 
he shall not put water into the vessel, because thereby the 


sparks would become extinguished. 
VOL. 1.—6 


82 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


GEMARA: Would this act not render the vessel useless ? 
Said R. Huna the son of R. Jehoshua: ‘‘ The vessel is not 
made useless, because sparks do not amount to anything.”’ 

“* He shall not put any water into it,’’ etc. Shall we assume 
that this anonymous Mishna is in accordance with R. Jose, who 
said that it is prohibited even to cause light to be extinguished ? 
How can you explain this in this way? R. Jose spoke of the 
Sabbath itself; have you heard him saying so about the eve of 
Sabbath ? And should you say that here is also meant on Sab- 
bath itself, there is a Boraitha which states plainly: A vessel 
may be put under the lamp to receive sparks on Sabbath, and 
so much the more on the eve of Sabbath; but water must not 
be put in, even on the eve of Sabbath, and much less on the 
Sabbath itself. Therefore said R. Ashi: ‘‘ It may be said that 
it is in accordance even with the rabbis, who do not mind the 
causing of light to be extinguished through indirect means on 
the Sabbath. In this case, however, the sparks are extinguished 
(through direct means, 7.e.) by placing water underneath the 
lamp.”’ 


CHAPTER LV. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING VICTUALS, WHERE THEY MAY OR MAY 
NOT BE DEPOSITED TO RETAIN THEIR HEAT FOR THE SABBATH. 


MISHNA /.: Wherein may hot vessels be deposited (to 
retain the heat) and wherein may they not? Depositing in 
Gepheth (olive waste), dung, salt, lime, and sand, either wet or 
dry, is not allowed. In straw, grape-skins, wool-flocks, or grass 
it is permitted, provided they are dry, but not when they are 
still wet. 

GEMARA: A question was propounded: “‘ Is the use of olive 
waste only prohibited, but the use of the oil-cakes allowed; or 
does the Mishna allude to oil-cakes and still more so to olive 
waste (for it produces more heat)?’’ For the purpose of de- 
positing in, both kinds are not allowed; (but if the victuals have 
been deposited in a permissible thing and were subsequently 
placed on oil-cakes no wrong was done, because) oil-cake does 
not produce heat; olive waste produces heat. 

Rabba and R. Zera once met at the Exilarch’s house; they 
saw there a servant putting a can (with warm water) on top of 
a kettle (containing cold water), and Rabba rebuked him. Said 
R. Zera to him: ‘‘ In what particular does this case differ from 
that of putting one pan on top of another ?’’ Answered Rabba: 
‘“ Here heat is produced, but there it is only preserved.’’ An- 
other timé they saw (the servant) spreading a turban over a pitcher 
and putting a cup on top of it. Again Rabba rebuked him. 
R. Zera asked for the reason, and Rabba answered: ‘‘ You will 
soon see him wringing * the turban,’’ which he did. R. Zera 
again asked: “‘ In what particular does this case differ from that 
of a spread cloth ?’’ Answered Rabba: ‘‘ Here he is particular 
(lest it become wet and he will wring it), wliile there he is not.”’ 

“In straw.’’ KR. Adda b. Masria questioned Abayi: ‘‘ May 
wool-flocks, in which (victuals) were deposited, be handled on 
Sabbath ?’’ Abayi answered: ‘‘ Because of a lack of straw, 





* Wringing (in Hebrew, Se’hitah) is prohibited on the Sabbath. 


84 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


would a man sacrifice a valuable lot of wool-flock?”’ (When 
placing victuals in straw no intention to make further use of the 
straw exists, and it becomes part of the pot itself; with wool- 
flocks the case is different, for they are intended for further use 
and therefore must not be handled on Sabbath.) 

R. Hisda permitted the replacing of waste (fallen out) of 
a pillow on Sabbath. 

R. Hanan b. Hisda objected to him from the following: 
““ Untying the opening (for the neck) of a shirt is permitted on 
Sabbath, but cutting it is prohibited, and waste must not be 
placed into a pillow or bolster on a biblical feast day, much less 
on a Sabbath.”’ 

This presents no difficulty. Placing new waste in a pillow- 
case is not allowed, but replacing old waste is allowed. And so 
also we have learned plainly in a Boraitha, that when they fall 
out they may be replaced even on Sabbath, and much the more 
on a feast day. . 

R. Jehudah in the name of Rabh said: ‘‘ Whosoever makes 
an opening (for the neck in an unfinished shirt) on Sabbath is 
liable to a sin-offering.”’ 

R. Kahana opposed, saying: What is the difference between 
an opening for the neck and a bunghead (in a barrel)? Rabha 
answered: A bunghead is not attached to the barrel (z.e., it 
forms no part of it), but an opening for the neck is made by an 
incision in the shirt, and hence is part and parcel of same. In 
Sura the following doctrine was taught in the name of R. Hisda, 
and in Pumbeditha the same was taught in the name of R. 
Kahana or Rabha: ‘‘ Who was the Tana in whose name the 
sages taught that the part and parcel of a thing is on a par with 
the thing itself?’’ Said R. Jehudah in the name of Rabh: 
“It is R. Meir (of the Mishna, Kelim, VIII.) who holds that the 
attachment built on a hearth is on a par with the hearth itself 
and becomes unclean when touched by an unclean thing.’’ 

““ When wet.” A question was propounded: Naturally or 
artificially wet ? Come and hear. The Mishna says: ‘‘ Not 
with straw, nor with grape-skins, nor with wool-flocks, nor with 
grass when wet.’’ It is right only if we accept the theory that 
they became wet, but should we venture to think them natu- 
rally wet, how is this to be imagined ? Can wool-flocks be natu- 
rally wet? The sweaty wool under the hips may be meant. 
Did not R. Oshia teach we may deposit in dry cloth and dry 
fruit, but not in wet cloth or wet fruit? How is naturally wet 


TRACT SABBATH. 85 


cloth to be imagined? This may also mean cloth made from 
the sweaty wool under the hips of the sheep. 

MISHNA J//.: It may be deposited in cloth, fruit, pigeon 
feathers, shavings, and fine flaxen tow. R. Jehudah forbids 
the use of fine, but permits the use of coarse flaxen tow. 

GEMARA: “ Shavings.’’ A question was propounded: 
Does R. Jehudah forbid the use of fine shavings or fine flaxen 
tow? Come and hear. We have learned in a Boraitha, R. 
Jehudah says: Fine flaxen tow is the same as dung, which in- 
creases heat; therefore the conclusion is that he means flaxen tow. 

MISHNA/J///.: It may be deposited (wrapped) in skins, and 
they may be handled; in shorn wool, and must not be handled. 
How can this be done? The lid is raised and it (the shorn 
wool) falls down. R. Elazar b. Azarya says: The vessel is bent 
sideways lest it be taken out and cannot be replaced, but the 
sages say it may be taken out and replaced. 

GEMARA: A question was propounded by R. Jonathan b. 
Akhinayi, R. Jonathan b. Elazar, and R. Hanina b. Hama: 
Does the Mishna allude to skins beloning to private men only, 
hence skins belonging to an artisan, who is particular with 
them, may not be handled under any circumstances; or perhaps 
the Mishna allows even an artisan’s skins? Answered R. Jona- 
than b. Elazar to them: It is reasonable to accept that it applies 
only to those belonging to private men but not to artisans, 
because they (the artisans) are particular, Said R. Hanina b. 
Hama to them: Thus said R. Ishmael b. Jossi: ‘‘ My father 
was a tanner, and he said, ‘ Bring some skins here to sit on.’”’ 

An objection was raised: Boards of private men may be 
handled, but not those of artisans (if, however, the intention is 
to serve a meal on them for guests both kinds may be handled) ? 
With boards it is different. Even private men are particular 
with boards. 

On this point the following Tanaim differ: Skins belonging 
to private men may be handled, but not those of artisans. R. 
Jossi says both kinds may be handled. 

While they were sitting together another question was pro- 
pounded by them: The forty less one principal acts of labor on 
Sabbath, where are they taken from? Said R. Hanina b. 
Hama: ‘‘ From the acts of labor performed at the tabernacle.”’ 
R. Jonathan b. Elazar, however, said: Thus said R. Simeon b. 
Jossi b. Laqunia: From the thirty-nine times the words “‘ work,’’ | 
‘* his work,’’ and ‘‘ work of’’ are to be found in the Pentateuch. 


86 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


R. Joseph questioned Rabba: Isthe term “* his work’’ which 
is found in the passage *‘ and Joseph came into the house to do 
his work’’ [Gen. xxxix. 12] also of the number or not? Abayi 
answered him: ‘‘ Let us bring the book and count,’’ and he 
rejoined: ‘‘ I am in doubt whether the verse ‘ and the work was 
enough’ [Ex. xxxvi. 7] is of the number, and the former verse 
is to be explained ‘ he came in to do his business,’ or whether 
the former is of the number and the latter is to be explained 
‘the task was completed.’’’ (Both verses cannot be counted 
among the thirty-nine, because if they are there will be forty in 
all.) This question remains unanswered. 

It is proven by a Boraitha that the adduction of the thirty- 
nine acts is made from the acts performed at the tabernacle, 
for we were taught: One is culpable only for the performance 
of such work as was done at the building of the tabernacle. 
They have sown, but ye must not sow; they have harvested, 
but ye must not; they have loaded the boards from the ground 
upon wagons, but ye must remove nothing from public into 
private ground; they have unloaded from the wagons to the 
ground, but ye must not remove from private into public 
ground; they have transferred from one wagon into another, 
but ye must transfer nothing from private into private ground. 
‘‘ From private into private ground.’’ What wrong is committed 
by that? Both Abayi and Rabha, and according to others R. 
Adda b. Ahabha, said: ‘‘ From private into private ground by 
way of public ground.”’ 

‘* In shorn wool and may not be handled.’’ Rabha and Rabhin 
in the name of Rabbi (Jehudah Hanassi) said: ‘“‘ It is only 
taught, when not designated for the purpose of depositing in 
them, but if designated for that purpose they may be handled.”’ 
Rabhina says that the teaching of the Mishna is applicable to 
shorn wool taken from stock (of a store). 

The following Boraitha is in support of this: Shorn wool 
taken from stock is not to be handled, but if prepared by a pri- 
vate man for a purpose it may be handled. 

Rabba b. b. Hana taught before Rabh: Palm branches, if 
cut off for use as fuel and finally intended for sitting purposes, 
must be tied together (before the Sabbath). R. Simeon b. 
Gamaliel said it needs not tying. He who taught this has him- 
self declared that the Halakha prevails in accordance with 
R. Simeon b. Gamaliel. 

It was taught: (In relation to sitting on palm branches cut 


TRACT SABBATH. 87 


off for use as fuel) Rabh said (it must be) tied. Samuel said: 
The intention on the eve of Sabbath suffices; and R. Assi said: 
Sitting (on them before the Sabbath), even if not tied nor pre- 
viously intended for sitting purposes on the Sabbath, is suffi- 
cient. It is clear that Rabh holds with the first teacher and 
Samuel holds with R. Simeon b. Gamaliel, but whom does R. 
Assi’s opinion agree with? He is in accordance with the Tana 
of the following Boraitha: It is permitted to go out (on Sab- 
bath) with a flax or wool plaster (on a wound) when dipped in 
oil and tied with a string, but it is not permitted when the 
plaster is not dipped in oil or tied with a string; but if one went 
out with it only a little before the Sabbath, even if not dipped 
in oil and tied, it is permissible. Said R. Ashi: ‘‘ We were also 
taught in a Mishna in support of this; but who is the teacher 
that does not agree with R. Simeon b. Gamaliel?”’ It is R. 
Hanina b. Aqiba, for when R. Dimi came from Palestine he 
said in the name of Zera, quoting R. Hanina: R. Hanina b. 
Aqiba once went with his disciples to a place and found some 
palm branches tied together to be used as fuel; he said to his 
disciples: ‘‘ Make up your minds to sit on them to-morrow.”’ 
I do not know whether there was to bea wedding or a funeral 
that following day, but the inference from this narration is: 
Only in the case of a wedding or funeral, when people are busy 
(and could not tie them up), the intention is sufficient, but 
otherwise tying together is necessary. 

R. Jehudah said: ‘‘ One is permitted to carry in a box of 
sand on the Sabbath for the purpose (of covering up an unclean 
place) and use the remainder for any purpose whatever. Mar 
Zutra, in the name of Mar Zutra the Great, interpreted this— 
providing he singled out a corner for it. Said the rabbis before 
R. Papa: “Is this teaching (of the great Mar Zutra) in accord 
only with the opinion of R. Simeon b. Gamaliel, but not with 
that of the rabbis who require action rather than intention ?’’ 
R. Papa answered: It may even be in accord with the rabbis, 
who require action only where it is possible, and this action 
(tying together or sitting on sand) is impossible (as reserving 
a corner for them is not considered an act, but an intention 
only). 

R. Jehudah permits the use of the dust of incense on the 
Sabbath. R. Joseph permits poppy-seed waste. Rabha per- 
mits pepper dust and R. Shesheth Barda, to wash the face 
with. What is Barda? Said R. Joseph: A powder of one-third 


88 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


aloe, one-third myrrh, and one-third violet. R. Nehemiah b. 
Joseph also permits Barda, provided it does not contain more 
than a third part of aloe. 

R. Shesheth was asked if it was permitted to crush olives on 
Sabbath? He answered: ‘‘Is it permitted on week days ?”’ 
He is of the opinion that the spoiling of food is not allowed. 

Barda was brought to Ameimar, Mar Zutra, and R. Ashi. 
Ameimar and R. Ashi washed themselves with it, but Mar Zutra 
did not. They asked him: ‘‘ Do you, Master, not hold with 
R. Shesheth, who permits the use of it ?’’ Said R. Mordecai 
to them: Leave out the master in this question, for he does 
not even use Barda on week days. He holds with the follow- 
ing Boraitha: ‘‘ One is permitted to scratch off crust of excre- 
ment and of wounds only for the purpose of relieving pain, 
but not for the purpose of beautifying the person.’’ And the 
above-mentioned rabbis agree with the teaching of the follow- 
ing: One should wash his face, hands, and feet daily out of 
respect for his Creator, as it is written [Prov. xvi. 4]: ‘* Every 
thing hath the Lord wrought for its destined end.’ * 

‘““ The vessel ts bent sideways,’’ etc. Said R. Aba in the name 
of R. Hyya b. Ashi, quoting Rabh: If the cavity formed 
by the vessel got out of shape it is not permitted to replace (the 
vessel). There is an objection from our Mishna: ‘““ And the 
sages say it may be taken out and replaced.’’ How shall this be 
understood? If the cavity remained intact the rabbis did well 
by telling us that the replacing of the vessel was allowed; but if 
the cavity got out of shape, is it not self-evident that replacing 
is not permitted ? Nay; they still maintain that the cavity did 
not get out of shape, and the controversy (in the case) is as 
regards precaution. One maintains that this precaution is to 
be taken (lest we replace the vessel when the cavity is out of 
shape), while the others contend this is not necessary. 

R. Huna said: ‘‘ A fragrant plant used after meals in place 
of burnt spices, if it was taken out of and replaced in the 
flower-pot before Sabbath, it may be taken out, used, and 
replaced on Sabbath, but not otherwise. Samuel said that the 
same is the case with a knife that was preserved between the 
bricks. Mar Zutra, according to others R. Ashi, said that a 
knife may be preserved between the branches of the root. And 





* The expression in Hebrew is /ema’anchu , literally, ‘for his own purpose.” 
Leeser translates for the purpose of the things created ; the Talmud, however, takes 
it literally. 





TRACT SABBATH. 89 


R. Mordecai said to Rabha that R. Qatina has objected to the 
above rabbis, who said that if it were not replaced before Sab- 
bath it must not be used, from a Mishna (Kilaim, I. 9), which 
states plainly that it may be taken out on Sabbath. This 
question remains. 

MISHNA JV.: (A vessel) not covered during daylight must 
not be covered after dark. If, after having been covered, it 
became uncovered, it is permitted to cover it again. A pitcher 
may be filled with cold victuals and put under a pillow (to keep 
it cool). 

GEMARA: R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel said: “‘ It i 
permitted to store cold victuals (to protect them from the sun).’’ 
Said R. Joseph: ‘‘ What news came he to teach? Have we not 
learned this in the above Mishna?’’ Abayi answered: “A 
great deal! From the Mishna I would infer that only such 
things as are not usually stored are permissible (for in that case 
no precaution lest one put warm victuals under a pillow or bol- 
ster for the purpose of generating heat is necessary); he informs 
us, however, that even such things as are usually stored are 
permissible also.’’ R. Huna in the name of Rabbi, however, 
says: “‘ It is prohibited.’’ Were we not taught that Rabbi has 
permitted this? This presents no difficulty. In the former 
instance he did so when he was not as yet aware of the follow- 
ing decision of R. Ishmael b. Jossi. Rabbi at one time decided 
that it is forbidden to store cold victuals. Said R. Ishmael b. 
Jossi to him: ‘‘ My father permitted it,’’ whereupon Rabbi 
said: ‘‘ If this sage has once permitted it, so shall it be done.’”’ 
Said R. Papa: Come ye and note the mutual respect: Had R. 
Jossi been alive, he would have had to show respect to Rabbi; 
as R. Ishmael, who succeeded his father in every respect, also 
has acknowledged Rabbi’s superiority. Still Rabbi accepted 
his decision. 

R. Na’hman said to his slave Doru: ‘‘ Store some cold vict- 
uals for me and bring me warm water from a Gentile cook- 
shop.’’ R. Ami heard this and was angry. Said R. Joseph: 
‘“ What was the reason of hisanger? Did not R. Na’hman act 
in accordance with the teachings of the great masters, Rabh and 
Samuel ?’’ R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel said: It is per- 
mitted to store cold victuals, and R. Samuel b. R. Itz’hak said 
in the name of Rabh: Anything that may be consumed raw is 
not included in the prohibition relating to cooking bya Gentile; 
he (R. Ami), however, was of the opinion that, although it is 


go THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


allowed, a man of note should not practise it (because the lay- 
man seeing such things of the scholar he might allow himself 
still more). 

The rabbis taught: ‘‘ Although the sages said it is not allowed 
to deposit (warm victuals) after dark, even in such receptacles 
as do not increase the heat, still, if already deposited, it is per- 
mitted to add more cover. Howcan this be done? R. Simeon 
b. Gamaliel says: ‘‘ In cold weather the covering sheet may be 
taken off and a blanket substituted; in warm weather the blanket 
may be taken off and a sheet substituted.’’ Furthermore said 
the same: ‘‘ The sages prohibited (to deposit warm victuals) 
only in the same pan in which they were cooked, but if emptied 
into another pan it is permitted; and there is no fear of one 
coming to cook (on the Sabbath); for (the act of) emptying (the 
victuals) from the cooking-pan (into another) proves (that there 
is no such intention). 

If one deposited a pot (containing victuals) in material that 
may be handled on the Sabbath, and covered it with the same, 
or even deposited it in non-permissible material, but covered it 
with permissible, he may take out the pot and replace it; but if 
he deposited it in non-permissible material and covered it with 
the same, or even deposited it in permissible, but covered it 
with non-permissible material, he may take out the pot, but can 
replace it only if the pot was but partly covered. Otherwise, 
he must not replace it at all. 

It is permitted to put one cooking-pan upon another, and 
also one earthen pot upon another, but not an earthen pot upon 
a cooking-pan, or a cooking-pan upon an earthen pot. (Even 
on Sabbath) the cover of a pot may be fastened down with 
dough (kneaded on Friday before dusk). In the case of putting 
one pan or pot upon another, this may be done only to preserve 
the heat, but not for the purpose of heating the upper pot by 
means of the lower one. 

The same as it is forbidden to store warm (victuals), so it is 
also forbidden to store cold (victuals) on the Sabbath; but 
Rabbi permitted the latter to be done. Even so is it prohib- 
ited to chop ice on Sabbath in order to obtain cold water, but 
ice may be put into a vessel or a pitcher without fear of the 
consequences. 


CHArreR« ¥. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING WHAT MAY AND MAY NOT BE WORN BY 
ANIMALS ON THE SABBATH. 


MISHNA J/.: What gear may we let animals go about in 
and what not ?* The male camel in a bridle; the female camel 
with a nose-ring; Lybian asses in a halter, and a horse in a col- 
lar. All (animals) that are used to collars may go out in and 
may be led by the collar. Such gear (when it becomes defiled) 
can be sprinkled and submerged without being removed from 
its (proper) place (on the animal). 

GEMARA: R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel said: ‘‘ Rabbi 
was asked, How is it when the reverse is the case? #.¢., when 
the female camel is bridled and the male camel is invested with 
a nose-ring ? May they be allowed to go about? There is no 
question as to a bridle on a female camel, for it is considered a 
burden; as to a nose-ring on a male camel, shall we assume that 
it is merely an additional safeguard, and thus becomes permis- 
sible, or is it an unnecessary safeguard and hence not allowed ?”’ 
R. Ishmael b. Jossi answered: ‘‘ Thus my father said: Four 
animals may go about with a bridle on—the horse, the mule, 
the camel, and the ass.’’ A Boraitha states: Lydda asses and 
camels may go about with a bridle on. The following Tanaim, 
however, differ as to this point (whether a superfluous safeguard 
is a burden or not): one maintains that no animal may go about 
burdened with a chain; but Hananya says a chain or anything 
else that is intended as a safeguard is permitted. 

Said R. Huna b. Hyya in the name of Samuel: ‘‘ The 
Halakha prevails according to Hananya.’’ 

Levi b. R. Huna b. Hyya and Rabba b. R. Huna once trav- 
elled together; arriving at an entrance, the former’s ass ran 
ahead of the latter’s. Rabba b. R. Huna became dejected (at 
the lack of respect shown him, supposing it to have been done 
intentionally). Thought Levi to himself: ‘‘I will pacify him 





* See Exodus xx. 10 and Deut. v. 14, where it is prohibited to have cattle per- 
form work on the Sabbath. The Mishna considers the carrying of burdens work and 
defines what gear constitutes a burden for cattle and what does not. 


92 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


with the following question: Is it permitted to put a halter on 
an unmanageable ass like mine on the Sabbath?’’ Rejoined 
Rabba: ‘‘So said your father in the name of Samuel: ‘ The 
decision of Hananya prevails.’ ”’ 

At the school of Menashyah it was taught: A goat with a 
bridle fastened to his horns is permitted to go about on Sabbath 
(but not if the bridle was simply tied to the horns, as it may 
slip off and a man may be forced to carry the bridle). 

An objection was raised: ‘‘ Were we not taught in a Mishna 
that it is not allowed to let a cow go about with a strap tied 
between her horns ?”’ 

Said R. Irmya b. Aba: On this point Rabh and Samuel dif- 
fer; according to one it is prohibited at any rate, and according 
to the other, if for an ornament it is prohibited, but as a safe- 
guard it is permitted. Said R. Joseph: “‘ It seems that Samuel 
was the one who permitted it as a safeguard, as R. Huna said 
in his name the Halakha prevails according to Hananya.’’ Said 
Abayi to R. Joseph: ‘‘ On the contrary, it may be that Samuel 
is the one who forbids it at any rate, as R. Jehudah said above 
in his name: Rabbi was asked: How is it when the reverse is 
the case,’’ etc. Does this not mean to exclude a nose-ring from 
a camel? But why should you prefer this latter saying to the 
former one? Because it was taught: ‘‘ R. Hyya b. Ashi said 
in the name of Rabh that it is forbidden at any rate; and R. 
Hyya b. Abhin in the name of Samuel said: It is permitted as 
a safeguard.”’ 

An objection was raised from the following: If the owner 
tied the (red) heifer with a halter, she may nevertheless be used. 
Should you assume that this (halter) is a burden (how could she 
be used)? (Do not) the Scriptures say [Numbers, xix. 2]: 
‘Upon which there was no yoke’’? Answered Abayi: “‘ (It 
is to be understood) when the owner leads her from one town 
to another, (the halter is a necessary safeguard, hence no bur- 
den).’’ Rabh said: ‘‘ There is quite a difference in the case of 
the red heifer,’’ as she is very valuable (and must be guarded). 
Rabhina said: ‘‘ She must have a halter on account of her stub- 
bornness.”’ 

‘* The horse with a collar.’’ What is meant by “‘ go about ”’ 
or led? R. Huna said: ‘‘ It makes no difference whether the 
strap hangs loose on the animal’s neck or is used as a rein; but 
Samuel said they may go about if led (by the strap) but not 
(with the strap) hanging loose. 


TRACT SABBATH. 93 


A Boraitha teaches: ‘‘ They may go about with the halter 
tied round their necks in order that they may be led whenever 
necessary.’ Said R. Joseph: ‘‘I have seen the calves of R. 
Huna going out on a Sabbath with their halters round their 
necks.’’ R. Samuel b. Jehudah, when coming from Palestine, 
said in the name of R. Hanina that Rabbi’s mules also went 
out on a Sabbath with their halters tied around their necks. 

‘“ And are sprinkled,’’ etc. Is this to say that they are sub- 
ject to defilement ? Does not a Mishna state [Kelim, XII. 8] 
that only rings worn by human beings are subject to defilement, 
but harness and all other rings are not? Said R. Itz’hak of 
Naph’ha*: The collar-ring having at one time been used by 
men for personal purposes and become defiled, still retains its 
defiled character; R. Joseph, however, maintains it is not neces- 
sary to claim this. The fact that the collar-ring is used by man 
for the purpose of guiding the animal lays it open to becoming 
defiled, as we have learned in the Boraitha which taught us: A 
metal whip is subject to defilement, for the reason that man 
uses it to manage the animal with. 

‘“* And submerged without removing it from its place.’” Would 
this not constitute a case of ‘‘ Chatzitzah’’ (intervention).+ Said 
R. Ami: ‘‘ (Intervention of the bridle between the neck and the 
water) is avoided by loosening the bridle.’’ A Boraitha teaches: 
‘“‘ Intervention is avoided by the size of the bridle.”’ 

MISHNA //.: The ass may go out with a rug fastened 
around him; rams may go out with leather bandages tied 
around their privates; sheep may go out with their tails tied up 
or down and wrapped (to preserve the fine wool); she-goats may 
go out with their udders tied up. R. Jossi forbids all this 
except sheep wrapped up. R. Jehudah says: She-goats may 
go out with their udders tied up to stop the lactation, but not 
to save the milk. 

GEMARA: Said Samuel: The Mishna means: ‘‘ Only when 
the (rug) is fastened on Sabbath eve.’’ Said R. Na’hman: It 
seems to be so from the following Mishna: ‘‘ An ass may not 





* Naph’ha is Aramaic for ‘‘ smith,” According to the opinion of Dr. I. M. 
Wise, the reviser of this Tract in the first edition, Naph’ha refers to the city whence 
R. Itz’hak came. This was criticised, but we found the same was said by Frankel 
and many others. 

¢ When any article of apparel, worn by a person or animal while bathing, inter- 
venes between the body and the water, z.e., bars the admission of the water to the 
body, it constitutes a case of ‘‘ Chatzitzah.”’ 


94 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


go out with a rug unless fastened.’ How should this be under- 
stood? Shall we say that (the rug) is not fastened at all? Then 
it would be self-evident, lest it fall off and will have to be car- 
ried bya man. We must, therefore, assume that the Mishna’s 
meaning of “‘ not fastened’’ signifies ‘‘ not fastened before the 
Sabbath.’” Hence Samuel’s opinion has a good reason. 

And it is also supported in the following Boraitha: ‘‘ The 
ass may go out with a rug fastened before the Sabbath, but not 
with a saddle, even though fastened before.’? R. Simeon b. 
Gamaliel says: ‘‘ Even with a saddle, if fastened before the 
Sabbath, provided, however, no stirrups are attached to the 
saddle and a crupper under the tail.’’ 

R. Assi b. Nathan questioned R. Hyya b. R. Ashi: Is it 


permitted to put a rug on an ass on the Sabbath?” ‘It is,”’ 
was the answer. And to the question: ‘‘ What is the differ- 
ence (in the Law) between these two ?’’ He was silent. (Mis- 


interpreting the silence,) R. Assi objected: ‘‘ A Boraitha teaches: 
It is not allowed to remove the saddle from the ass directly, but 
one may move it to and fro until it falls off; if you say it is for- 
bidden to handle the saddle, is there any question as to putting 
iton?’’ Said R. Zerato him: ‘‘ Leave him alone! He is of the 
opinion of his teacher (Rabh), in whose name R. Hyya b. R. 
Ashi related that he (Rabh) permitted putting a feed-bag on an 
animal on Sabbath.’’ A feed-bag, which is nothing but an 
accommodation, is permitted; so much the more a rug, which is 
a relief! Samuel, however, permitted a rug, but prohibited 
a feed-bag. R. Hyya b. Joseph reported the opinion of Rabh 
to Samuel, whereupon the latter said: ‘‘ If so said Abba, he 
knows nothing of the laws of Sabbath.”’ 

When R. Zera came (to Palestine), he heard R. Benjamin b. 
Japheth stating in the name of R. Johanan that it is permitted to 
putonarug. He thanked him for it and, continuing, remarked: 
‘‘ Thus has the Arioch (King of Laws) in Babylon decided.’’ 
Who is meant by the title (Arioch) ?. Samuel. 

From the foregoing it is evident that all agree that it is per- 
mitted to cover an ass with a rug on Sabbath. But what is the 
point in which a saddle differs from the rug? It differs therein 
that a saddle may drop off (and involve the necessity of hand- 
ling). R. Papa gave another reason: ‘‘ To cover an ass with 
a rug is an act of relief, for it is said that an ass feels cold even 
in summer, but to remove a saddle from an ass’s back in order 
to cool off the ass is not necessarily an act of relief.”’ 





TRACT SABBATH. 95 


An objection was raised. We have learned: ‘‘ The horse 
shall not go out with a fox-tail (for a pompon) and calves with 
the feed-bags on public ground.’’ Shall we not assume that (in 
the case of the calves) they may not go out on public ground, 
but they may on private ground, and it refers even to large 
calves (whose necks are long enough to reach the ground 
with their mouths easily); thus feed-bags are merely an accom- 
modation? Nay; the permission to carry feed-bags applies 
only to small calves (whose necks are short and legs long, and 
to which reaching down to the ground with their mouths 
would entail a hardship) and must be considered as a necessary 
relief. 

The master said: ‘‘ She-goats must not go out with a bag 
attached to their udders.’’ Is there not a Boraitha which 
teaches that they may? Said R. Jehudah: ‘‘ This presents no 
difficulty. In the former case the bag is of tied fast, in the 
latter it zs (and there is no reason for apprehension lest it drop 
off and will have to be carried).’’ Said R. Joseph: ‘‘ Why, you 
have entirely done away with the teachers of our Mishna. 
There zs a difference of opinion between the teachers in this 
very Mishna: ‘ She-goats may go out with a bag tied to their 
udders.’’’ R. Jossi forbids all except sheep with covers on to 
protect the wool. R. Jehudah says: ‘‘ She-goats may go out 
with their udders tied up for the purpose of preventing lacta- 
tion, but not for the purpose of saving the milk.’’ 

We have learned in a Boraitha: R. Jehudah related the case 
of she-goats which he saw in Antioch. Their udders were so 
large that bags had to be made for them in order to prevent 
their dragging on the ground and becoming mutilated. (These 
bags were worn also on the Sabbath.) 

The rabbis taught: ‘‘ It happened with one man whose wife 
died and left him a nursing child, he was so poor that he could 
not pay a wet-nurse. A miracle happened to him; his breasts 
opened and he nursed his child.’’ Said R. Joseph: Come and 
see how great the man must have been that such a miracle was 
wrought for him. Said Abayito him: On the contrary, Behold 
how bad the man must have been that the nature of mankind 
changed in him and nothing occurred to enable him to earn 
enough money to payanurse. Says R. Jehudah: Come and see 
how hard it is for heaven to change the fate of a man concern- 
ing his livelihood, that the nature of the world was changed, but 
not his fate. Said R. Na’hman: It is proven by this fact that 


96 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD, 


a miracle occurred, but he was not provided with means for pay- 
ing a wet-nurse. 

The rabbis taught ‘‘ It happened once that a man wedded 
a woman with a mutilated hand, and did not discover it until 
she died.’’ Said Rabh: ‘‘ Behold how chaste this woman must 
have been, for even her husband did not discover it.’” R. Hyya 
retorted: ‘‘ This is nothing! It is natural with women to hide 
their defects, but note the modesty of the man, who did not 
discover it in his wife.’’ 

‘‘Rams may go out with (leather) bands around their pri- 
vates."’ What kind of bands? Said R. Huna: ‘‘ Hobbles.”’ 
Ulla said they were leather bands tied around their breasts to 
prevent them from the attack of wolves. Do wolves attack 
only the males and never the females? It is because the males 
always go ahead of the flocks. Do wolves attack only the 
advance of a flock and never the rear? It is because the males 
are usually fat. Are there no fat sheep among the females? 
Moreover, how can the wolves know which is which? It is 
because the males generally lift their heads and look around 
cautiously. R.Na’hman b. Itz’hak said they wore leather bands 
tied around their privates to prevent them from having coition 
with the females. Whence this inference? From the last 
clause of the Mishna, ‘‘ The sheep may go out with their tails 
tied up,’’ in order that the males may have coition with them; 
hence we infer that the first clause is for the purpose of prevent- 
ing them. 

‘* She-goats may go out with a bag tied around their udders.”’ 
It was taught: Rabh said that the Halakha prevails in accord- 
ance with R. Jehudah; and Samuel held it to be in accordance 
with R. Jossi. Others taught: Rabh and Samuel did not 
directly cite the opinions of the Tanaim just mentioned, but 
they themselves decreed as follows: Rabh held that she-goats 
may go out with their udders tied up for the purpose of pre- 
venting lactation, but not to save the milk. Samuel, how- 
ever, prohibited this in both cases. Others again say: R. 
Jehudah b. Bathyra long ago decided the same as Rabh, but 
added that on account of the impossibility of determining what 
purpose the tying up of the udders would serve, it is entirely 
prohibited. Thereupon Samuel decided that the Halakha pre- 
vails with him. Rabbin upon his arrival in Babylon said that R. 
Johanan said that the Halakha prevails in accordance with the 
first Tana. 


TRACT SABBATH. 97 


-MISHNA /7/.: And what must (animals) not go about in ? 
The camel with a crupper, nor with hobbles on both legs, nor 
with the front leg hobbled with the hind. This law is applied 
to all other animals. It is not allowed to tie camels together 
with a rope and then lead them; but one is permitted to hold 
in his hand the several ropes on the camels and lead them, pro- 
vided the ropes are not twisted into one. 

GEMARA: A Boraitha in addition to this Mishna states: 
‘Tf the crupper is fastened to the hump as well as to the tail of 
the camel, it may go about.’’” Rabbab. R. Huna says: A camel 
may go about with a pad under its tail (to prevent friction). 

““ One is not to tie camels.’’ What is the reason? Said R. 
Ashi: Because it looks like leading them to market. 

‘* But one is permitted to hold in his hand,’’ etc. Said R. 
Ashi: This law was stated only concerning (Kilaim), and 
hence the teacher means to say, provided he does not tie or 
twist them. Samuel said: And provided the cords do not 
protrude from his hand as much as the length of aspan. Was 
it not taught at the school of Samuel, two spans? Said Abayi: 
From the difference between Samuel himself and his school we 
infer that Samuel came to teach us how to practise. But did 
not a Boraitha state: Provided he lifts (the cords) from the 
ground one span (but there is no restriction as to the quantity 
protruding from his hands)? The non-restriction of the quan- 
tity of cord applies only to the amount of cord used for the dis- 
tance between the animal and the man’s hand. (In that case 
the quantity is unlimited. The quantity of cord, however, pro- 
truding from the man’s hand must not exceed one span; so also 
the distance from the ground to the cords must be at least one 
span.) 

MISHNA /V.: The ass is not to go out with a rug, unless 
fastened, neither with a bell that has been muffled, nor with 
a collar on his neck, nor with ankle-boots. The hens are not to 
go out with cords tied to them, nor with straps on their feet. 
Rams are not to go out with carts tied to their tails; nor sheep 
with sneezing-wood; the calf with the reed yoke, nor the cow 
with the skin of a hedgehog (tied to the udder), nor with a strap 
(between her horns). The cow of R. Elazar b. Azarya went 
out with a strap between the horns against the approval of the 
rabbis. 

GEMARA: “ Neither with a bell that has been muffied.”’ 
For it looks like bringing it to market. 

VOL. I.—-7 


98 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


** Nor with a collar on his neck.’’ Said-R. Huna: With a 
collar underneath his jowls. What was the collar intended for ? 
To prevent irritation of any wounds that may have been on the 
neck. 

‘* Nor with ankle-boots. 
one foot against the other. 

‘“* The hens with cords.’’ Asa distinguishing mark. 


Fe 


To prevent injury from kicking 


‘* Nor with straps on their feet.’’ To prevent damage arising 
from jumping. 
‘“ The rams with carts.’’ To prevent the ends of their tails 


from damage through trailing on the ground. 

‘* Nor sheep with sneezing-wood.’’ (What is it?) Said R. 
Huna: ‘‘ In seaports there is to be found a kind of tree called 
*Hanun, which produces sneezing-wood, which when held under 
a sheep’s nose produces sneezing, and while sneezing such ver- 
min as may have lodged in the sheep’s head are expelled. If 
such be the case, may rams not go out with it either? For 
rams sneezing-wood is not used at all. They butt with their 
heads, therefore vermin drops out of its own accord. 

‘“* Nor the cow with the skin of the hedgehog,’’ etc. To pre- 
vent leeches from sticking to the udder. 

** Nor with the strap between the horns.’ Whynot? Either 
in accordance with Rabh, who forbids it at any rate, or in accord- 
ance with Samuel, who forbids it as an ornament. 

‘* The cow of R. Elazar 6. Azarya,’’ etc. Had he only one 
cow? Did not Rabh, or R. Jehudah in the name of Rabh, say 
that R. Elazar b. Azarya gave yearly as tithes from his herds 
as many as twelve thousand calves? We have learned (in a 
Boraitha): The cow in question was not his, but a neighboring 
woman’s. It is only ascribed to him because he did not protest 
against it. 

Rabh, R. Hanina, R. Jonathan, and R. Habiba [in the whole 
Section of Festivals, where the four names stand together, R. 
Jonathan must be read instead of R. Johanan] all said: He 
who has the power to protest against wrong in his house and 
does not do so, is responsible for (the transgressions of) every 
one in his house. In the city (where his protest would be rec- 
ognized), he is responsible for the transgressions of every one of 
the inhabitants of the city; and if he is such a great man that 
his word would be respected in the whole world, he is punished 
for (transgressions of all) mankind. Said R. Papa: ‘‘ And the 
Exilarchs are punished for the sins of all Israel.’” As R. Hanina 


TRACT SABBATH. 99 


said: It is written: ‘‘ The Eternal will enter into judgment with 
the elders of his people and with the princes thereof ’’ [Isaiah, 
iii. 14]. If the princes sinned, what have the elders to do with 
it? The intent is to say: Because the elders did not protest 
against the princes. 

R. Jehudah sat before Samuel, when a woman came in com- 
plaining, and Samuel paid no attention to her. Said R. Jehu- 
dah to him: ‘‘ Is Master unaware of the passage: Whosoever 
stops his ears at cry of the poor, he also shall cry himself and 
not be heard ’’ ? [Prov. xxi. 13]. Samuel retorted: ‘‘ Ingenious 
scholar! Your head-master (meaning himself) is on safe ground, 
but our Chief is responsible,’’ Mar Ugqba, being at that time 
Chief of the Judges (it was his affair), for it is written [Jerem. 
xxi. 12]: ‘‘O House of David! Thus hath said the Lord: Ex- 
ercise justice on (every) morning, and deliver him that is robbed 
out of the hand of the oppressor, lest my fury go forth like fire, 
and burn so that none can quench it, because of the evil of your 
doings.”’ 

Said R. Zera to R. Simon: ‘‘ Let Master reprove the Exi- 
larch’s retainers.’ He answered: ‘‘ They care not for me.”’ 
Rejoined R. Zera: Even if they do not care, reprove them 
anyhow; for R. Aha b. Hanina said: The Holy One, blessed 
be He, never issued a benevolent decree, which He subse- 
quently reversed into malevolence, except in this sole instance, 
which is written [Ezekiel, ix. 41]: “‘ And the Lord said unto 
him, Pass through the midst of the city, through the midst of 
Jerusalem, and inscribe a mark upon the foreheads,’’ etc. Thus 
said the Holy One, blessed be He, to Gabriel: ‘‘ Go and set the 
mark (the Hebrew letter Tabh) in ink upon the foreheads of the 
righteous, that the angels of destruction have no power over 
them; and the same mark in blood upon the foreheads of the 
wicked, that the angels of destruction, may have power over 
them.’’ The Party of Prosecution pleaded before Him in these 
terms: ‘‘ Lord of the Universe, what is the difference between 
the two?’’ He answered: ‘‘ Those are perfectly righteous 
and these completely wicked.’’ Again the Party of Prosecution 
pleaded: ‘‘ Lord of the Universe! It was in their power to 
protest (against wickedness), and they did not.’’ And the 
Lord answered: ‘‘ It is known to me that, had they protested, 
their protest would have been of no avail.’’ But they pleaded 
once more: ‘‘ Lord of the Universe! It is known to Thee; but 
was it known to them ?’’ And thus it is written: ‘* Slay utterly 


100 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD, 


old and young, both maids, little children, and women, and at 
my sanctuary shall ye begin.’”’ Then they began with the old 
men who were before the house’’ [Ezek. ix. 6]. And R. 
Joseph taught: ‘‘ Do not read ‘ my sanctuary,’ but ‘ my sancti- 
fied,” which means the men who have performed all the laws 
prescribed in the Torah, which begins with all the letters of the 
alphabet. And it is also written [ibid., ibid. 2]: ‘‘And behold, 
six men came from the direction of the upper gate 

beside the copper altar.’’ Was, then, the copper altar at that 
time? Was it not hidden already in the time of Solomon? 
It means that the Holy One, blessed be He, told them they 
shall begin from that place where they used to sing hymns 
before Him. And who are the six men (messengers) ? Said 
R. Hisda: ‘‘ Anger, wrath, rage, destruction, devastation, and 
ruin.” 

Why just the letter Tabh? Said R. Simeon b. Lakish: 
‘The Tabh is the last letter on the seal of the Holy One, 
blessed be He; for R. Hanina said (the inscription on) the seal 
of the Holy One, blessed be He, is Emeth (truth) (and the last 
letter of the Hebrew word Emeth is a Tabh). 

It being evident from the verse [Ezek. ix. 2] that Zechuth 
Aboth* no longer existed, at what time shall we assume that it 
ceased ? 

Said Rabh: From the time of the prophet Hosea b. Beéri, 
as it is written [Hosea, ii. 12]: ‘‘ And no man will deliver her 
out of my hand,’’ meaning that even the righteousness of the 
ancestors will be of no avail. 

Samuel said: From the time of the King Chazael of Syria, 
as it is written [II Kings, xiii. 23]: ‘‘ And the Lord became 
gracious unto them, and had mercy on them, and turned his 
regard unto them, because of his covenant with Abraham, 
Isaac, and Jacob, and would not destroy them, and he cast 
them not off from his presence until now.’’ Thus, He will 
remember his covenant only ‘‘ until now,’’ but not after that. 

R. Jehoshua b. Levi said: From the time of Elijah the 
prophet, as it is written [I Kings, xviii. 36: ‘‘ Elijah the prophet 
came near and said, O Lord, God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of 
Israel, this day let it be known that thou art God in Israel,’’ 





*Zechuth Aboth is a term implying the benefits bestowed upon men in consid- 
eration of the virtues and righteousness of their ancestors, and is based upon the pas- 
sage in the Bible: ‘t Keeping kindness unto the thousandth generation,” etc. [Ex. 
xxxiv. 7] ; and also upon the verse Ex. xxxii. 13. 


TRACT SABBATH, IOI 


etc., and means to infer that only ‘‘ this day’’ the Lord will 
remember Zechuth Aboth, and not after this day. 

R. Johanan says: From the time of Hezekiah the King, as 
it is written [Isaiah, ix. 6]: ‘‘ To establish it and to support it 
through justice and righteousness, from henceforth and unto 
eternity: the zeal of the Lord of Hosts will do this,’’ implying 
that after that the favors of the Lord will not be bestowed by 
virtue of Zechuth Aboth, but through His zeal. 

R. Ami said: Death is the result of sin, and affliction the 
result of transgression: death the result of sin, for it is written 
[Ezekiel, xviii. 20]: ‘‘ The soul that sins, it shall die,’’ etc.; 
affliction the result of transgression: for it is written [Psalms, 
Ixxxix. 33]: ‘‘ And I will visit their transgressions with a lash 
and their iniquity with stripes.’’ 

An objection was raised: One of the teachers said: The 
angels (once) said to the Holy One, blessed be He: ‘* Lord of 
the Universe! Why didst Thou punish Adam with death ?”’ 
The Lord answered: ‘‘ Because I gave him a light command- 
ment, and he failed to observe it.’’ The angels again said unto 
Him: ‘‘ Why did Moses and Aaron die? Did they not observe 
all the laws of the Torah?’’ And He answered [Eccl. ix. 2]: 
‘“ The same fate befalls the righteous as the wicked.’” Hence 
death is not the result of sin! He (R. Ami) is in accordance 
with the Tana of the following Boraitha: R. Simeon b. Elazar 
said: Even the death of Moses and Aaron was the result of 
their sins, for it is written [Numb. xx. 12]: ‘‘ Because you had 
no faith in me’’; (and the inference thereof is) if they had had 
faith, they would not have died. 

Another objection was raised: (There is a tradition:) Only 
four men died in consequence of original sign. They are Ben- 
jamin ben Jacob; Amram, the father of Moses; Jesse, the 
father of David; and Kilab ben David. Whose opinion does 
this Boraitha agree with ? The Tana who related the legend of 
the angels holds that Moses and Aaron also died in consequence 
of original sin. So must be then in accordance with R. Simeon 
b. Elazar, as said above. Thus we see that although Moses and 
Aaron died on account of their own sins, still death without sin 
and affliction without transgression are possible; hence R. Ami’s 
theory is objected to. 

R. Samuel b. Nahmeni in the name of R. Jonathan said: 
‘* Whoever says that Reuben (the patriarch Jacob’s son) sinned 
with his father’s wife is in error, because it is written [Gen. 


102 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Xxxv. 22]: ‘‘ Now the sons of Jacob were twelve.’’ This proves 
to us that they were all equal (in righteousness); but what does 
the verse [ibid., ibid.] which states that he dd lie with Bilha, 
etc., signify ? That Reuben deranged his father’s bed, and the 
Scripture considers this equal to his having sinned with her. 
There is another Boraitha: Simeon b. Elazar said: That right- 
eous man (Reuben) is innocent of the crime. The act with his 
father’s wife was never consummated; as, is it possible that 
a man whose descendants will stand on the Mount Ebol and 
proclaim: ‘‘ Cursed be he who lies with his father’s wife ’’ [Deut. 
xxvii. 20], would commit such a crime? But what does the 
above-cited verse mean? He (Reuben) resented the injustice 
done his mother and said: ‘‘ When my mother’s sister lived and 
proved a vexation to my mother, it was bearable; but to have 
my mother’s servant prove a vexation to her, this is unbear- 
able!’’ Therefore he removed the bed of Bilha from his father’s 
bedroom (which the verse holds tantamount to lying with her). 
R. Samuel b. Nahmeni in the name of R. Jonathan said: He 
who maintains that the sons of Eli have sinned is nothing but 
in error, as it is written [I Samuel, i. 3]: ‘‘. . . two sons 

priests of the Lord.’’ (ina if they would have sinned, 
fee verse would not elevate them with such an honor.) [He 
holds with Rabh’s theory farther on; however, he differs from 
him concerning ’Haphni, for the reason that he is mentioned 
together with Pinhas in the verse cited. ] 

Rabh said: Pinhas did not sin, as it is written: ‘‘ And Ahiya, 
the son of Ahitub, Ichabad’s brother, the son of Pinhas, son of 
Eli, was priest of the Lord at Shilah’’ [I Samuel, xiv. 3]. Is 
it possible that the Scriptures would describe minutely the pedi- 
gree of a sinner? Is it not written: ‘‘ The Lord will cut off, 
unto the man that doeth this, son and grandson,”’ etc. [Mal. ii 
12]. That was explained to mean, if he be simply an Israelite 
he shall have here no master among the teachers and no scholar 
among disciples, and if he is a descendant of priests, he shall 
have no son who may bring the offering. From this we must 
conclude that Pinhas is innocent of guilt. Is it not written, 
however, ‘‘ sons of Belial’’ (and thus Pinhas is included)? It 
was because he should have protested against it, and did not, 
the Scripture considers it as if he had also sinned. 

The same said again: He who thinks the sons of Samuel 
sinned, is alsoin error. It is written: ‘‘ And they did not walk 
in his ways’’ [I Sam. viii. 3]. True, they did not walk in His 


TRACT SABBATH. 103 


ways, but they sinned not. How, then, is the passage to be 
upheld: ‘‘ And they but turned aside after lucre and took 
bribes *’ ? [ibid., ibid.]. They did not act as their father; for 
Samuel the righteous travelled through all Israel and dispensed 
justice in every city, as it is written: ‘‘ And he went from year 
to year in circuit to Beth-El and Gilgal and Mizpah, and judged 
Israel ”’ [ibid. vii. 6]; but they did not act in this way. They 
dwelt in their respective places in order to increase the fees of 
their messengers and scribes. 

On this point the following Tanaim differ. R. Meir says: 
They (who were Levites themselves) claimed their priestly allow- 
ance personally (and thereby deprived the poor priests and 
Levites of their shares, for being also judges they were never 
refused). R. Jehudah says: They had commercial relations 
with private people (and were sometimes compelled to pervert 
justice). R. Aqiba says: They took tithes (to a greater extent 
than they were allowed to do) by force. R. Jossi says: They 
took by force the (priests’) portions (shoulder-blades, jowls, and 
stomachs of a slaughtered animal). 

He said again: ‘‘ The same error is made concerning David.” 
Said Rabh: Rabbi, who is a descendant of the house of David, 
endeavored to interpret favorably the passage: ‘‘ Wherefore hast 
thou despised the word of the Lord ¢o do what is evil in his 
eyes?’’ [II Samuel, xii. 9]. He said: This evil deed is differ- 
ent (in words and language from other evil deeds whereof men- 
tion is made in the Scriptures). In all other instances it says, 
“and he has done,’’ but here it says, ‘‘ to do.’’ This implies 
that he “ wanted to do’”’ (but did not do). ‘‘ Uriah the Hittite 
thou hast slain with the sword”’ [ibid., ibid.]. (Asa rebel) he 
should have had him ¢rted by the Sanhedrin, which he did 
not. ‘‘ And his wife thou hast taken to thee fora wife.’ He 
had a right to her, for R. Samuel b. Nahmeni in the name of 
R. Jonathan said: Whoever went to war with David divorced 
his wife previously. ‘‘ Him thou hast slain with the sword 
(used) for the children of Amon.’’ As he will not be punished 
on account of the children of Amon, so will he also not be pun- 
ished for the death of Uriah. Whatis the reason? He (Uriah) 
was a rebel. 

Said Rabh: ‘‘ Note well the life of David, and you find noth- 
ing blamable save the affair of Uriah, as it is written [I Kings, 
xv. 5]: ‘‘ Save only in the matter of Uriah the Hittite.”’ 

Abayi the elder has contradicted the above statement of 


104 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Rabh from his own statement elsewhere that David accepted 
slander? This difficulty remains. What was it? That which 
is written [II Samuel, ix. 4]: ‘‘ And the king said unto him, 
Where is he? And Ziba said unto the king, Behold, he is in 
the house of Machir, the son of ’Ammiél, in (4’) Lo-debar”’; 
farther on it is written [ibid. 5]: ‘‘ And David the king sent, 
and had him taken out of the house of Machir, the son of ’Am- 
miél, from (’) Lo-debar.’’* Thus, when David found him 
‘‘ doing something (good),’’ whereas Ziba informed the King 
that he was ‘‘ doing nothing (good),’” hence David was con- 
vinced that Ziba was a liar; why, then, did David give heed to 
his slander afterwards, for it is written [ibid. xvi. 3]: ‘‘ And the 
king said, And where is thy master’s son? And Ziba said unto 
the king, Behold, he remaineth at Jerusalem; for he said, 
To-day will the house of Israel restore unto me the kingdom of 
my father.’’ But whence the adduction that David accepted 
slander? From what is written further [ibid. 4]: ‘“‘ Then said 
the king to Ziba, Behold, thine shall be all that pertaineth to 
Mephibosheth. And Ziba said,”’ etc. 

Samuel said: David did not accept slander. He (himself) 
saw in Mephibosheth’s conduct that which corroborated Ziba’s 
calumny, as it is written [ibid. xix. 25]: ‘‘ And Mephibosheth 
the (grand-)son of Saul came down to meet the king, and he 
had not dressed his feet, nor trimmed his beard, nor washed his 
clothes.’’ (This was considered disrespect); further, it is writ- 
ten [ibid. 28]: ‘“‘ And he slandered thy servant unto my lord 
the king,’’ etc.; and further [ibid. 31]: ‘‘ And Mephibosheth 
said unto the king, Yea, let him take the whole, since that my 
lord the king is come (back) in peace unto his own house.”’ 
Now, this last verse (read between the lines) really means: ag! 
have anticipated your safe arrival home with anxiety, and since 
you act toward me in such a manner, I have nothing to com- 
plain of to you but to Him who brought you safely back.”’ 

R. Jehudah in the name of Rabh said: ‘Had David not 
given heed to slander, the kingdom of the house of David would 
never have been divided, neither would Israel have worshipped 
idols, nor would we have been exiled from our land.”’ 

The same rabbi said: He who believes Solomon guilty of 





* The literal translation of the Hebrew word Blo-debar is: he does nothing 
(good); of Mlo-debar: he is very busy (doing something good). Upon the differ- 
ence in the two literal meanings of the two words Rabh bases the untruth of Ziba’s 
statement. 











TRACT SABBATH. 105 


idolatry is in error. This theory agrees with R. Nathan, who 
points to a contradiction between the two following passages in 
the very same verse [I Kings, xi. 4]: ‘‘ And it came to pass, at 
the time when Solomon was old, that his wives turned away his 
heart,’’ etc.; and farther on [ibid., ibid.] it says: ‘‘ Like the 
heart of David his father.’” While his heart was not as perfect 
as that of his father David, still he did not sin. Therefore it 
must be said that it means, his wives turned away his heart 
toward idolatry, but still he did not practise it. This is sup- 
ported by the following Boraitha: R. Jossi said: It is written 
[II Kings, iii, 13]: ‘‘ And the high places that were before 
Jerusalem, which were to the right of the mount of destruction, 
which Solomon the King of Israel had built for Ashthoreth, the 
abomination of the Zidonians,’’ etc. Is it possible that neither 
Assa nor Jehosophath had cleared them out before Josiah ? 
Did not Assa and Jehosophath abolish idolatry in Judea? It 
follows, then, that as Josiah is given credit by the verse in the 
Scripture for having abolished the worship of Ashthoreth, the 
abomination of the Zidonians, although at his time it had been 
out of existence for a long time, this was done merely because 
he (Josiah) had abolished other later forms of idolatry; the same 
rule is followed in the case of Solomon; while he himself did 
not build the Ashthoreth of the Zidonians, the fact that he did 
not prevent his wives from doing so makes him responsible in 
the same measure as if he had committed the deed himself. 
But is it not written [I Kings, xi. 6]: ‘‘ And Solomon did what 
is evilin the eyes of the Lord’’? This is also written merely 
because it was in his power to prevent the actions of his wives, 
and he did not do so; hence the Scripture ascribes the deed to 
him, as if he himself had committed it. 

Said R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel: It would have been 
better for him (Solomon) to have been an actual hireling to idol- 
atry than to be accused of doing what is evil in the eyes of the 
Lord. 

Again R. Jehudah said in Samuel’s name: At the time Solo- 
mon took in wedlock the daughter of Pharaoh, she brought to 
him about a thousand different musical instruments. Each of 
these was used for separate idols, which she named to him, and 
still he did not protest against it. 

The same said again in the name of the same authority: At 
the time Solomon took in wedlock Pharaoh’s daughter (the 
angel) Gabriel came down and planted a cane in the sea; on the 


106 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


sand that accumulated around the cane a great city was after- 
ward built; but in a Boraitha we were taught that the miracle 
occurred on the day that Jeroboam introduced the two golden 
calves, one each in Beth-El and Dan, and that great city was 
Italia of Greece.* 

R. Samuel said: Whoever says Josiah sinned is also in error. 
It is written [II Kings, xxii. 2]: ‘‘ And he did what was right in 
the eyes of the Lord and walked in the ways of David his father 
and turned not aside to the right or to the left.’’ Is this not 
contradictory to the verse [II Kings, xxiii. 25], ‘that returned 
to the Lord with all his heart.’’ How is the “‘ returned ’’ to be 
understood? He must have sinned in order to return? Nay; 
from this it must be inferred that after Josiah attained the age 
of eighteen, he refunded from his private purse all amounts paid 
by such as he had declared guilty (bound to pay) from the time 
he was eight years old (when he became king). This is the 
interpretation of ‘‘ returned to the Lord,” 

However, this differs from Rabh’s following statement: 
‘None is greater among penitents than Josiah in his time and 
one in our own time. And who is fe? Aba, the father of 
Jeremiah b. Aba. Others say Aha, the brother of Aba, father 
of Jeremiah b. Aba, for the aforesaid teacher said Aba and Aha 
were brothers. Said R. Joseph: There is yet another in our 
own time, and he is Ukban b. Ne’hemiah, the Exilarch.t+ 
‘“ Once while studying,’ said R. Joseph, “I dozed off and saw 
in a dream an angel stretching out his hands and accepting his 
(Ukban’s) repentance.” 





* Rashi added to this that the Romans took away this city from the Greeks, and 
therefore the Roman kingdom is called Italy ; we, however, deem it an error, as we 
have found that such a city is in Greece. 

+ The text states: ‘‘ And that is Nathan of Zuzitha ’’; and Rashi tried to explain 
the word Zuzitha ‘‘ with sparks,” or because the angel took him by the Zizith (locks) 
of his head. We have omitted this because it is proved >y Abraham Krochmal in his 
‘“ Remarks to the Talmud,” article ‘‘ The Chain of the Exilarch,” that Ne’hemiab 
the Exilarch and Nathan the Exilarch were of two different times, many generations 
apart. (See there.) 





CHATtTER..V1. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING WHAT GARMENTS (SERVING AS ORNA- 
MENTS) WOMEN MAY GO OUT WITH ON THE SABBATH. 


MISHNA J/.: In what (ornamental) apparel may a woman 
go out, and in what may she not go out? A woman is not 
allowed to go out (even in private ground) either with woollen 
or linen bands or with straps on her head to keep her hair in 
tresses (as a precaution lest she enter public ground and take off 
the bands to show to her friends, thereby becoming guilty of 
carrying movable property for a distance of four ells or more). 
Nor is she to bathe herself with the bands on unless loosened. 
Nor is she to go out with either Totaphoth or Sarbitin on, 
unless they are fastened;* nor with a hood in public ground, 
nor with gold ornaments, nor with nose-rings, nor with finger- 
rings that have no seal, nor with pins. But if she did go out 
with these things, she is not bound to bring a sin-offering (as 
they are ornaments and not burdens). 

GEMARA: “ Bathing.’’ Where is bathing referred to (and 
what has it to do with the Sabbath)? Said R. Na’hman b. 
Itz’hak in the name of Rabba b. Abuhu: The Mishna means to 
say: What is the reason that a woman is not allowed to go out 
with either woollen or linen bands? Because the sages have 
decided that she is not to bathe herself with them on, even on 
week days, unless loosened; therefore she shall not (go out with 
them on) on the Sabbath at all, lest it happen that she become 
in duty bound to bathe herself,t and, while untying her hair, 
be forced to carry the bands in public ground for a distance of 
four ells or more. 





* In the Mishna the Hebrew word for ‘‘ fastened” is ‘‘ Tephurim,”’ literally 
meaning ‘‘ sewed” or ‘‘embroidered” ; z.e., the Totaphoth and Sarbitin as worn by 
the wealthy were ornaments made of gold or silver with inscriptions engraved on 
them, but the poor made them of various colored materials (as explained in the 
Gemara farther on) and embroidered the inscriptionson them. The prohibition of the 
Mishna therefore refers only to the wearing of such ornaments before the inscrip- 
tions were either engraved or embroidered on them, Such is our explanation in our 
‘* History of Amulets,” pp. 11-15. 

¢ After menstruation. See Leviticus, xv. 


108 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


R. Kahana questioned Rabh: ‘‘ What about a hair-net ?’’ 
Answered Rabh: ‘‘ You mean to say a woven one? Every- 
thing woven has not been restricted.’’ This was also taught in 
the name of R. Huna b. R. Joshua. According to others the 
same said: ‘‘ I have seen that my sisters were not particular to 
take it off while bathing.’’ And the difference between the 
two versions is when it was dirty; according to the first version, 
it does not matter, as everything woven was not restricted; and 
the second version, where particularity is the case, if they were 
dirty, they would certainly be particular to take them off. 

An objection was raised from Mishna [Miqvaoth, 1X. 8]: 
‘* When a person bathes, the following objects cause ‘ interven- 
tion’ (Chatzitzah): Woollen and linen bands and headstraps 
(used by maidens).’” R. Jehudah says woollen and hair bands 
do not cause ‘‘intervention,’’ because water soaks through 
them. (Now we see that although woollen and linen bands are 
woven, yet they ave an intervention.) Said R. Huna: “‘ All 
this concerns only maidens.’’ (And they are an intervention 
only because they are particular about it.) 

R, Joseph in the name of R. Jehudah said that Samuel said 
that the Halakha prevails according to R. Jehudah in the case 
of hair bands only. Said Abayi: From the expression ‘* the 
Halakha prevails’? we must infer that there is a controversy 
between R. Jehudah and the Tana of the above Boraitha. (The 
Tana said nothing about hair bands.) Shall we assume that 
because R. Jehudah declares hair bands not to be objects of 
‘““intervention,’’ he must have heard the previous Tana men- 
tion them? Even if such be the case, it is not probable that 
R. Jehudah heard that the Tana agrees with him on that point, 
and hence he says: “‘If he agrees with me on this point, why 
not in the other instances also?’’ Said R. Na’hman in the 
name of Samuel: Read, The sages agree with R. Jehudah with 
respect to hair bands. 

This is supported by a Boraitha. Woollen bands cause inter- 
vention, but hair bands do not. R. Jehudah, however, said: 
‘“ Neither of them causes intervention.”’ 

Said R. Na’hman b. Itz’hak: It seems to be so from the 
expression of our Mishna: ‘‘ A woman may go out with hair 
bands, be they her own or her friends’.’’ Whose opinion does 
this Mishna represent ? Can we say R. Jehudah’s? He per- 
mits even woollen bands. We must say it is in accordance with 
the above rabbis; hence they do not differ as regards hair bands. 





TRACT SABBATH. 109 


** Nor with Totaphoth.’’ What are ‘‘ Totaphoth’’? Said 
R. Joseph: ‘‘ A balm bandage for sanitary use (Humrate dige- 
tiphta).’’ * 

Said Abayi to him: ‘‘ Then let it be permitted as an amulet 
made by a reliable expert.’’ (During Abayi’s time this diff- 
culty was not solved.) R. Jehudah, however, in the name of 
Abayi said: + ‘‘ It is an Absayim’”’ (a gold ornament). This is 
supported in the following Boraitha: ‘‘ A woman miay go out 
with a gilded hair-net, and Totaphoth or Sarbitin when fastened 
to the hair-net.”’ What are Totaphoth and what Sarbitin ? 
Said R. Abuhu: ‘‘ The former are bands that reach from ear to 
ear, and the latter bands that reach from temple to temple.’’ 
R. Huna said: ‘‘ The poor make them of all kinds of colored 
material, and the rich make them of gold or silver.”’ 

‘* Nor with a hood.’’ Said R. Yanai: ‘* I cannot understand 
what kind of a hood the Mishna means; is it a slave’s hood that 
it prohibits and permits a woollen hood, or does it prohibit 
woollen hoods and so much more slaves’ hoods? Said R. 
Abuhu: It seems that a woollen hood is meant. And so we 
have learned plainly in the following Boraitha: ‘“‘ A woman may 
go out with a hood and head ornament in her yard.’’ R. Simeon 
b. Elazar says: With a hood even in a public ground. ‘‘ It is 
arule,’’ said he, ‘‘ that anything below the ‘ Shebha’ha’ (hair- 
net) is permitted to be worn, but anything above it is not. 
Samuel, however, said the Mishna alludes to the slave’s hood. 

Did, indeed, Samuel say so? Did he not say the slave may 
go out with the mark (he wears) around his neck, but not with 
the mark on his clothes? This presents no difficulty. The 
former applies to the mark made for him by his master (in which 
case there is no fear of the slave removing and carrying it), while 
the latter applies to the mark made by himself. What meaning 
do you attach to Samuel’s statement ? If he permits the wear- 
ing of the mark on the slave’s neck because the master made it 
and the slave will fear to remove it, could not the master also 
make the mark on the slave’s clothes? Yea, but the slave 
might lose the mark, and for fear of his master he will fold up 
his coat and carry it on his shoulders (in public ground). And 
according to R. Itz’hak b. Joseph it is prohibited. This is also 





* For the explanation of HWumrate digetiphta see our ‘‘ History of Amulets,” 
p. 14. 

+ This R. Jehudah is probaby R. Jehudah of Diphta, for the R. Jehudah gener- 
ally cited died on the day of Abayi’s birth. See our ‘* History of Amulets,” etc. 


110 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


supported by a Boraitha, which teaches us distinctly that the 
slave may go out with the mark on his neck, but not on his 
clothes. In like manner Samuel once said to R. Hanina b. 
Shila: ‘‘ None of the rabbis that call on the Exilarch should 
go out with their insignia on their clothes (on the Sabath) save 
you. He would not be angry with you were you to go to him 
without them (hence, not being a necessary burden, you may 
wear them or not, as you choose).’’ 

The master said: ‘* Not with a bell,”’ etc. Why not? Lest 
it break off and one may carry it. Then why should the same 
not be feared in regard to a bell attached to his clothes? Here 
a bell is treated of that was made by an expert and was woven 
right in with the cloth. This is also in accord with what R. 
Huna b. R. Joshua said: ‘‘ Everything that is woven they did 
not restrict.”’ 

‘‘ Nor with a golden ornament.’’ What was this golden orna- 
ment? Said Rabba b. b. Hana in the name of R. Johanan: 
‘“ A golden (ornament with an engraving of the city of) Jeru- 
salem on it,’’ such as R. Aqiba made for his wife. 

The rabbis taught: A woman shall not go out wearing a 
golden ornament; but if she did so, she becomes liable to bring 
a sin-offering. So is the decree of R. Meir, but the sages say: 
She must not go out wearing it; if she did, however, she is not 
culpable. But R. Eliezer said: A woman may go out wearing a 
golden ornament to commence with. Wherein do they differ ? 
R. Meir holds it to be a burden, and the rabbis hold it to be an 
ornament; then why should she not wear it to commence with ? 
Lest she take it off to show it to her friends and thus happen to 
carry it; but R. Eliezer reasons differently. Who generally go 
out with such valuable golden ornaments ? Prominent women; 
and prominent women will not remove them for the purpose of 
exhibiting them to friends. 

Rabh prohibits the wearing of a crown-shaped ornament, and 
Samuel permits it. Both agree that the wearing of a crown- 
shaped ornament is permissible, ‘as there is no fear that the 
woman will remove it; where they do differ, however, is as to 
a golden and jewelled ornament. The former holds that there 
is fear of her removing it in order to exhibit it, and thus prob- 
ably happen to carry it, while the latter contends that as only 
prominent women wear such costly ornaments no fear need be 
entertained on that score. 

Said R. Samuel b. b. Hana to R. Joseph: You distinctly 


TRACT SABBATH. IIt 


told us in the name of Rabh that an ornament in the shape of 
a crown may be worn.* 

Levit lectured in Neherdai that a crown-shaped ornament 
may be worn; whereupon twenty-four women in Neherdai went 
out with crown-shaped ornaments on. 

Rabba b. Abuhu lectured the same in Mehutza, and eighteen 
women went out of one alley wearing those ornaments. 

R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel said: ‘‘ A belt may be 
worn.’’ Some one said a leather belt (even if jewelled). Said 
R. Saphra: “‘ Why! Even a golden belt jewelled, for is it not 
equal toa golden garment ?’’ Said Rabhinato R. Ashi: ‘‘ How 
is it with a belt worn over a sash ?’’ Answered R. Ashi: ‘‘ By 
this you mean two belts’’ (and this is prohibited). R. Ashi, 
however, said: ‘‘ A sash may be worn only when it is securely 
fastened, but not otherwise.”’ 

““ Nor with a nose-ring.’’ What isanose-ring? It isa nose- 
band. 

‘““ Nor with finger-rings,’’ etc.; but if the ring have a seal it 
is prohibited, as it is not an ornament. Is this not contradicted 
from Kelim, XI. 8? The following ornaments of women are 
subject to defilement: Chains, nose-rings, rings, finger-rings 
either with or without aseal, and nose-bands. Said R. Na’hman 
b. Itz’hak: ‘‘ You quote a contradiction in the laws of defile- 
ment as against the laws of Sabbath. As for defilement, the 
Torah requires an utensil [Numbers, xxxi. 20], and such it 
is; but as for Sabbath, it refers to a burden; hence a ring 
without a seal is an ornament, with a seal it is a burden (for 
women).”’ 
 “ Nor with a pin.’’ For what purpose can a pin be used? 
R. Ada from Narsha explained it before R. Joseph: Women 
part their hair with it. Of what use is it on Sabbath? Said 
Rabha: On week days they wear a golden plate on their heads; 
the pin is used for parting the hair and holding down the plate; 
but on Sabbath the pin is put against the forehead. 

MISHNA /7.: One is not to go out with iron-riveted sandals, 
nor with one (iron-riveted shoe) unless he has a sore on his foot, 
nor with phylacteries, nor yet with an amulet unless made by 
a reliable expert, nor with a shield, helmet, or armor for the 





* R. Joseph passed through a severe illness and at times forgot hisown teachings ; 
hence it sometimes occurred that he was reminded of them by his disciples. 

+ Hereis omitted the legend about Levi, as the proper place for it is in Kethuboth, 
1034, and it will be translated there, 


112 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


legs; but if he has gone out (with either of these) he is not 
liable for a sin-offering. 

GEMARA: “‘ Jrou-riveted sandal.’’ What is the reason of 
its being prohibited ? Said Samuel: ‘‘ It happened toward the 
close of the persecutions (of the Jews) that a party of men hid 
themselves in a cave with the understanding that after once 
entering no one was to go out. Suddenly they heard a voice 
on the outside of the cave, and thinking the enemies were upon 
them, they began crowding each other into the farthest recesses 
of the cave. During the panic that ensued more men were 
trampled to death by the iron-riveted sandals worn by the party 
than the enemies would have killed. At that time it was 
enacted that a man must not go out (on Sabbath) with iron- 
riveted sandals.”’ If this be the reason, let it also be prohibited 
on week days? Because it occurred on a Sabbath! Then let it 
be allowed on a festival; why then is it stated that on a festival 
7z¢ must not be sent (Betzah, 26, Mishna)? And furthermore, 
why is it forbidden on Sabbath? Because the people usually 
assemble on that day; and the same is the case with a festival. 
But do they not assemble on a congregational fast—why then 
should it not be prohibited also then? When the above-men- 
tioned happened it was a prohibited assembly, but all these 
assemblies are permitted. And even according to R. Hanina 
b. Agiba, who said concerning defilement that this prohibition is 
only in the Jordan in a boat, as the case happened, it is 
because the Jordan is different in width and depth from other 
rivers; but Sabbath and a festival are alike as regards labor. 

Said R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel: This (the pro- 
hibition of the sandals in question) is only with regard to such 
as are riveted for the sake of durability, but not with regard to 
such as are riveted for the sake of decoration. How many 
(rivets are considered to be for the latter purpose)? R. Johanan 
said five in each. R. Hanina said seven in each. Said R. 
Johanan to R. Samon b. Aba: “‘ I will explain to you the differ- 
ence between my opinion and that of R. Hanina. I mean two 
rivets on each side of the sandal and one in the centre, while he 
means three on each side and one in the centre. The Gemara 
declared that R. Hanina is in accordance with R. Nathan, who 
permits seven; and R. Johanan is in accordance with R. No- 
horai, who permits only five. And Aipha said to Rabba b. b. 
Hana: ‘‘ Ye whoare the disciples of R. Johanan may act accord- 
ing to him; we, however, are acting in accordance with R. 


TRACT SABBATH. re 


Hanina.’’ R. Huna questioned R. Ashi: ‘‘ How is the law if 
there were five?’’ And he said: ‘‘ Even seven is permitted.”’ 
‘ And how is it if there were nine ?’’ And he rejoined: ‘‘ Even 
eight is prohibited. A certain shoemaker asked of R. Ami: 
‘“ How is it if the sandal is sewed from the inside ?’’ He an- 
swered: “' I have heard that it is permitted, but I can give you 
no reason.’’ Said R. Ashi: ‘‘ Does master not know the 
reason? Being sewed from the inside, it is no longer a sandal 
but a shoe; and the rabbis’ precaution was against the riveted 
sandal, but not in regard to shoes.’’ 

There is a Boraitha: One must not go out with an iron- 
riveted sandal and shall not walk in them from one room to 
another, not even from one bed to another (in the same room) ; 
but it may be handled to cover vessels with or to support one 
of the bed-stands with. R. Elazar b. Simeon prohibits even 
this, unless the majority of rivets fell out and but four or five 
remain. Rabbi limits the permission to seven (rivets). If the 
soles are made of leather and the uppers are riveted, it is per- 
mitted. If the rivets are made like hooks, or are flat-headed, 
or pointed, or pierce through the sandal to protect the sole, it 
is permitted. 

R. Massna, others say R. Ahadboy b. Massna in the name 
of R. Massna, said: ‘‘ The Halakha does not prevail in accord- 
ance with Elazar b. Simeon.’’ Is this not self-evident ? When 
one individual opinion conflicts with a majority, the opinion of 
the majority prevails. Lest one suppose that, because R. Elazar 
b. Simeon gave a reason for his statement, should it be ac- 
cepted, he comes to teach us that it is not so. 

Said R. Hyya: ‘‘ Were I not called a Babylonian, who per- 
mits what is prohibited, I would permit considerably more. 
How many? In Pumbeditha they say twenty-four, and in Sura 
they say twenty-two.’’ Said R. Na’hman b. Itz’hak: ‘‘ It seems 
by your remark that on the road from Pumbeditha to Sura you 
lost two.”’ : 

‘‘ Nor with one,’ etc. But if his foot is sore he may go out. 
On which foot may he wear the shoe? On the foot that is sore 
(for protection). 

The rabbis taught: When one puts on his shoes he should 
commence with the right shoe; when he takes them off he 
should commence with the left. When one bathes he should 
wash the right side first; when he anoints himself he should 
anoint the right side first, and whoever anoints the whole body 

VOL, 1.—8 


’ 


1r4 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


should commence with the head, for the head is the king of all 
the members (of the body). 

‘* Nor with phylacteries ;’’ but if he went out with them on, 
he is not liable for a sin-offering. Said R. Saphra: This is not 
only in accordance with him who holds Sabbath is a day for 
(wearing) phylacteries, but it is even in accordance with him 
who holds that it is not. What isthe reason? Because phylac- 
teries are put on in the same manner as a garment. 

““ And not with an amulet,’’ etc. Said R. Papa: ‘‘ Do not 
presume that both the maker and the amulet must be reliable; 


it is sufficient if the maker only is reliable.’ So it seems to be 
from the statement in the Mishna: ‘‘ And not with an amulet 
that was not made by a reliable expert.’’ It does not say with 


a reliable amulet. 

The rabbis taught: Which are to be considered such? If 
they have cured three times, no matter whether they contained 
inscriptions (of mystic forms) or (certain) medicaments. If the 
amulet is for a sickness, be it serious or not, or if it is for one 
afflicted with epilepsy, or only serves as a preventive, one 
may fasten or unfasten it even in public ground, provided he 
does not fasten the amulet to a bracelet or a finger-ring, to go 
out with it in public ground, lest those who see it think that it 
is being worn as an ornament. Did not a Boraitha state that 
only such amulets as cured three different parties are reliable ? 
This presents no difficulty. Here we are taught as to the reli- 
ability of the expert who made the amulet, while in the latter 
Boraitha we are taught as to the reliability of the amulet itself. 

Said R. Papa: It is certain to me that where three different 
amulets were given to three different (human) sufferers at three 
different times (and a cure was effected), both the amulets and 
the expert who made them are reliable. Where three different 
amulets were given to three different sufferers only once, the 
expert is reliable, but not the amulets. Where one and the 
same amulet was given to three different sufferers, the amulet 
is reliable, but not the expert; but how is it with three different 
amulets given to ome man for three different diseases? Cer- 
tainly, the amulets are not reliable (for each cured only once), 
but how is it with the expert ? Should he be considered reli- 
able or not? If we say that the expert cured him, perhaps it 
was only the fate of the sufferer that he should be cured by 
ascript? This question remains. 

The schoolmen propounded a question: Is there any sanc- 


TRACT SABBATH. 115 


tity in an amulet or not? For what purpose are we to know 
this? In order to enter a privy; if there is any sanctity in the 
amulet this would not be allowed, otherwise it would. 

Come and hear. We have learned in a Mishna: ‘‘ Not with 
an amulet unless made bya reliable expert.’’ From this we 
see that if made bya reliable expert one may go out with it. 
Now, if we say that there is sanctity in the amulet, how can we 
say that one may go out with it? Perhaps he shall be com- 
pelled to enter a privy, he will have to take it off, and thus be 
forced to carry it four ells or more in public ground. 

MISHNA ///.: A woman shall not go out with an orna- 
mental needle (with a hole in), nor with a ring that has a seal, 
nor with a Kulear, nor with a Kabeleth, nor with a perfume 
bottle. And if she does, she is liable for a sin-offering. Such 
is the opinion of R. Meir. The sages, however, freed her in 
the case of the two latter. 

GEMARA: Said Ulla: ‘* With men it is (concerning a finger- 
ring) just the reverse.’’ That is to say, Ulla is of the opinion 
that what is right for women is not right for men, and what is 
right for men is not right for women. Said R. Joseph: “‘ Ulla is 
of the opinion that women form a class of their own.’’ Rabha, 
however, says it often happens that a man gives his wife a ring 
with a seal on, to put away in a box, and she puts it on her 
finger until she comes to the box; again, it happens that a wife 
gives her husband a ring without a seal for the purpose of hav- 
ing him give it to a jeweller to repair, and until he comes to the 
jeweller he puts it on his finger. Thus it happens that a woman 
may wear a man’s ring and a man a woman’s (temporarily). 

What is Kabeleth? Cachous (for purifying the breath). 
The rabbis taught: A woman must not go out with Kabeleth, 
and if she did so she is liable for a sin-offering. This is the 
opinion of R. Meir, but the sages say she should not go out 
with it, yet if she does she is not liable. R. Eliezer, however, 
says she may go out with it to commence with. Wherein do 
they differ? R. Meir holds that it isa burden, the sages that 
it is an ornament; and the reason that she should not go out 
with it is lest she take it off to show to her friends, and thus per- 
chance carry itin herhand. R. Eliezer, however, permits it to be 
carried to commence with, because, said he, who generally carry 
such ? Women whose breath emits a bad odor, and surely they 
will not take them off to show them, hence there is no apprehen- 
sion that they will carry them four ells or more on public ground. 


116 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


There is a Boraitha: ‘‘ A woman must not go out with a key 
in her hand, nor with a box of cachous, nor with a perfume 
bottle; and if she goes out with them, she is liable for a sin- 
offering.”’ So is the decree of R. Meir, but R. Eliezer freed 
her, provided the box contains cachous, and the bottle perfume; 
but if they are empty, she is liable (for then there is a burden). 
Said R. Ada b. Ahaba: ‘‘ From this we may infer that one 
carrying less than the prescribed quantity of food in a vessel on 
public ground is culpable, as it states if there was no cachou or 
perfume, which is equal to a vessel containing less than the pre- 
scribed amount of food, she is liable. Hence it makes her liable 
even if less than the prescribed quantity. Said R. Ashi: Gén- 
erally one may be freed, but here it is different; the box and 
the bottle themselves are considered a burden. 

We read in the Scripture [Amos, vi. 6]: “‘ And anoint them- 
selves with the costliest of ointments.’ Said R. Jehudah in 
the name of Samuel: ‘‘ This signifies perfumery.’”’ 

R. Joseph objected: ‘‘ R. Jehudah b. Baba said that after 
the destruction of the Temple at Jerusalem the sages prohibited 
even the use of perfumes, but the rabbis did not concur in the 
decree. If we say perfume used only for pleasure, why did not 
the rabbis concur ?’’ Abayi answered: According to your mode 
of reasoning, even drinking wine from bowls (bocals) is prohib- 
ited, for it is written further [ibid., ibid.]: ‘‘ Those that drink 
wine from bowls.’” R. Ami said, ¢hat certainly means bocals, 
but R. Assi claimed that it means they clinked glasses one with 
another. Still Rabba b. R. Huna once happened to be at the 
house of the Exilarch and drank wine out of a bocal, but was 
not rebuked. It is, therefore, thus to be understood: The 
rabbis restricted only such pleasures as were combined with 
rejoicing, but not pleasures unaccompanied with rejoicing. 

Said R. Abuhu: Others say we were taught in a Boraitha: 
“Three things bring man to poverty: Urinating in front of 
one’s bed when naked; carelessness in washing one’s hands; 
and permitting one’s wife to curse him in his presence.’’ Said 
Rabha: ‘‘ Urinating in front of one’s bed should be understood 
to signify ‘ turning around so’as to face the bed and then urinat- 
ing,’ but not turning in the opposite direction; and even when 
facing the bed it signifies only ‘ urinating on the for in front of 
the bed and not ina urinal.’’’ Carelessness in washing one’s 
hand signifies ‘‘ not washing one’s hands at all,’’ but not insuffi- 
cient washing, for R. Hisda said: ‘‘I washed my hands well 


TRACT SABBATH. 117 


and plentifully and am plentifully rewarded.’’ Permitting one’s 
wife to curse him in his presence implies ‘‘ for not bringing her 
jewelry,’’ and then only when one is able to do so but does not. 

Rahava said in the name of R. Jehudah: The trees of Jeru- 
salem were cinnamon trees, and when used for fuel the odor 
extended over all the land of Israel; ever since the destruction 
of the second Temple the cinnamon trees disappeared; but a 
morsel as big as a barleycorn is still to be found in the treasury 
of the Kingdom of Zimzimai. 

MISHNA /V.: One must not go out with a sword, nor with 
a bow, nor with a triangular shield, nor with a round one, nor 
with a spear; if he does so he is liable for a sin-offering. R. 
Eliezer says they are ornaments to him, but the sages say they 
are nothing but a stigma, for it is written [Isaiah, ii. 4]: “‘ They 
shall beat their swords into ploughshares and their spears into 
pruning-knives; nation shall not lift up sword against nation, 
neither shall they learn war any more.’’ Knee-buckles are 
clean and one may go out with them on the Sabbath. Stride 
chains are subject to defilement, and one must not go out with 
them on the Sabbath. 

GEMARA: “R. Eliezer says they are ornaments.’’ There 
is a Boraitha: The sages said unto R. Eliezer: If the weapons 
are ornaments to man, why will they cease to exist in the post- 
messianic period ? He answered: ‘‘ They will exist then also.’’ 
This is in accordance with the opinion of Samuel, who said 
there will be no difference between the present time and the 
post-messianic period save the obedience to temporal poten- 
tates, for it is written [Deut. xv. 11]: “‘ For the needy will not 
cease out of the land.”’ 

Said Abayi, according to others R. Joseph, to R. Dimi or to 
R. Ivia, and according to still others, Abayi said directly to R. 
Joseph: What is the reason of R. Eliezer’s theory regarding 
weapons? It is written [Psalms, xlv. 4]: ‘‘ Gird thy sword 
upon thy thighs, O Most Mighty, with thy glory and thy 
majesty.”’ 

Said R. Kahana to Mar, the son of R. Huna: Is not this 
passage applied to the study of the Law (Torah)? And he 
answered: ‘‘ Anything may be inferred from a passage; at the 
same time, the passage must not be deprived of its common 
sense.’” Said R. Kahana: ‘‘ I am fourscore years old and have 
studied the six sections of the Mishna with their explanations 
through, and did not know until now that a scriptural passage 


118 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


has first to be interpreted in its plainest form!’’ What infor- 
mation does he mean to convey to ws by this assertion? That 
man has to study the Law through first, and then reason 
upon it. 

R. Jeremiah in the name of R. Elazar said: Two scholars 
who debate in the Law (not for controversy’s sake), the Holy 
One, blessed be He, causes them to prosper; moreover, they 
become exalted, for it is written [Psalms, xlv. 5], ‘‘ be prosper- 
ous.’’ But lest one say that this would be the case even if they 
(debate), not for the purpose (of studying the Law), therefore it 
says further [ibid., ibid.], ‘‘ because of truth.’’ Again, one 
might say that the same would be the case even if one became 
arrogant and conceited. Therefore it says further [ibid., ibid.], 
‘and meekness and righteousness.’’ And if they act humbly 
they will be rewarded with (the knowledge of) the Law, which 
was given with the right hand (of God), as it is further written 
[ibid.], ‘‘ and thy right hand shall teach thee fearful things.”’ 

R. Na’hman b. Itz’hak says they will be rewarded with the 
knowledge of what is said of the right hand of the Law, for 
Rabha b. R. Shila, according to others R. Joseph b. Hama in 
the name of R. Shesheth, said: How is to be explained the 
passage [Proverbs, iii. 16]: “‘ Length of days is in her right 
hand; and in her left riches and honor’’? Shall one say that 
in the right hand is only length of days, but not riches and 
honor? Common sense does not dictate so; therefore it must 
be interpreted thus: For those who study the Torah in the right 
way there is long life, and so much the more riches and honor; 
but for those who study it zo¢ in the right way, riches and honor 
there may be, but not long life. 

Said R. Jeremiah in the name of R. Simeon b. Lakish: Two 
scholars who quietly discourse on the Torah among themselves, 
the Holy One, blessed be He, hearkens unto them and listens 
to their desires, for it is written [Malachi, iii. 16]: ‘‘ Then con- 
versed they that fear the Lord one with the other,’’ etc. Con- 
versed means conversed quietly, as it is written [in Psalms, 
xlvii. 4]: ‘‘ He will subdue (quiet) people under us.’’ (Subdue 
and converse are expressed by the same terms in the two pas- 
sages, hence the similitude.*) What is meant by the words 
‘‘ that thought upon His name’”’? Said R. Ami: ‘‘ Even when 





* The words conversed and subdue in the two passages are expressed in Hebrew 
by ‘‘ Nidberu” and ‘‘ Yadber.” Both are derived from the root Dibur = to speak 
quietly. 


TRACT SABBATH. 11g 


one intended to observe a commandment, but was accidentally 
prevented and could not accomplish it, it is credited to him as 
if he had actually observed it.’’ Thus the passage ‘‘ thought 
upon His name ”’ is interpreted. 

Said R. Hanina b. Ide: Whosoever observes a command- 
ment as prescribed, will not be the recipient of bad tidings, for 
it is written [ Eccl. viii. 5]: ‘‘ Whoso keepeth the commandment 
will experience no evil thing.’’ R. Assi, others say R. Hanina, 
said: ‘‘ Even if the Holy One, blessed be He, has so decreed it 
(that he shall experience evil things) the decree is annulled 
through the prayers of this man, as it is written [ibid. 4]: ‘‘ Be- 
cause the word of a king is powerful, and who may say unto 
him, what doest thou?’ and this immediately followed by the 
passage: “ Whoso keepeth the commandment will experience no 
evil thing.’ ’’ 

R. Aba in the name of R. Simeon b. Lakish said: Two 
scholars who mutually instruct themselves in the Law, the Holy 
One, blessed be He, hearkens to their voices, for it is written 
[Song of Solomon, viii. 13]: ‘‘ Thou that dwellest in the gar- 
dens, the companions listen for thy voice; oh, let me hear it’’; 
but if they do not do so, they cause the Shekhina to move away 
from Israel, for further it is written [ibid. 14]: “‘ Flee away, my 
beloved,’’ etc. 

The same in the name of the same authority said: The 
Holy One, blessed be He, /oves two scholars who combine to 
study the Law, for it is written [Solomon’s Song, ii. 4]: ‘‘ And 
his banner over me was love.’’ Said Rabha: Provided they 
know something of Law, but have no instructor to teach them 
at the place where they reside.’’ 

The same said again: ‘‘ The man who lends his money is 
more deserving than the charitable man, and the most deserving 
of all is he who gives charity surreptitiously or invests money in 
partnership (with the poor).’’ Furthermore he said: ‘‘ If thy 
teacher is jealous (for thy welfare) and as spiteful as a serpent 
(if thou neglect thy studies), carry him on thy shoulders (because 
from him thou wilt learn), and if an ignoramus plays the pious, 
do not live in his neighborhood.”’ 

R. Kahana, according to others R. Assi, and according to 
still others R. Abba in the name of R. Simeon b. Lakish, said: 
‘‘'Whoso raises a vicious dog in his house prevents charity to 
proceed therefrom (for the poor are afraid to go in), as it is writ- 
ten [Job, vi. 14]: ‘‘ As though I were one who refuseth kind- 


120 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


ness to a friend.’’ (‘‘ As though J were one who refuseth””’ is 
expressed in Hebrew by one word, viz., lamos; in Greek Aa@pos 
means dog,* and hence R. Simeon’s inference.) Said R. Na’h- 
man: ‘‘ He even forsaketh the fear of the Lord,”’ for it is writ- 
ten at the end of the verse [ibid., ibid.]: ‘‘ And forsaketh the 
fear of the Lord.”’ 

Once a woman went into a certain house to bake, and a dog, 
through barking at her, caused her to have a miscarriage. Said 
the landlord of the house ‘‘ Fear him not, I have deprived him 
of his teeth and claws’’; but the woman answered: ‘‘ Throw 
thy favors to the dogs, the child is already gone! ‘i 

Said R. Huna: It is written [Eccl. xi. 9]: ‘‘ Rejoice, oh 
young man, in thy childhood, and let thy heart cheer thee in 
the days of thy youthful vigor, and walk firmly in the ways of 
thy heart and in the direction in which thy eyes see; but know 
thou that concerning all these things God will bring thee into 
judgment.’’ (Does not this passage contradict itself? Nay.) 
Up to the words ‘‘ and know”’ are words of the misleader, and 
from there on are words of the good leader. Resh Lakish said 
up to ‘‘ (and) know”’ the theoretical part of the law is meant, 
and from there on it speaks of good acts. 

“* Knee-buckles are clean,’ etc. Said R. Jehudah: This (birith) 
means arm-bandages. To this R. Joseph objected: ‘* We have 
learned that a birith is (virtually) clean, and one may go out 
with it on the Sabbath. If it is an arm-band, how can that be? 
The latter is subject to defilement.’’ It means that the birith 
is worn on the same part of the leg as the arm-bandage on the 
arm. 

Rabbin and R. Huna sat before R. Jeremiah, who slum- 
bered, and Rabbin said: ‘‘ A birith is worn on one of the thighs 
and kebalim on both shins. ’’ But R. Huna said both are worn 
on both shins, but the chain attached to the birith on both 
shins is called kebalim, and the chain makes them a perfect 
vessel. At this point of the argument R. Jeremiah awoke and 
said: ‘‘I thank you. Even so I heard R. Johanan say.” 
When R. Dimi came to Neherdai, he sent to tell the sages: 
My former information in the name of R. Johanan that the 
Tzitz was a woven thing was an error, as sO was said in his 
name. Whence the adduction that any ornament is subject to 
becoming defiled? From the Tzitz, the golden plate on the 





*R. Simeon b. Lakish was a Palestinian and knew the Greek language. 


TRACT SABBATH. 121 


forehead of the High Priest. And whence the adduction that 
textile fabrics are also subject to becoming defiled ? From the 
passage [Lev. xi. 32], ‘‘ or’’ raiment, which includes any textile 
fabrics whatsoever. 

The rabbis taught: ‘* Any piece of textile fabric or any trifle 
of an ornament is subject to defilement.’’ But how is it with 
an article which is half texture and half ornament? It is also 
subject to defilement. As for an ornament which is carried in 
a bag, the bag being of woven material becomes defiled and 
with it the ornament, but if the ornament was carried in a piece 
of cloth, the cloth remains undefiled. Is a piece of cloth not 
a textile fabric? Yea, but by that is meant that the bag, 
even if not made of textile fabric, becomes defiled, because it is 
attached to the garment. What is a bag used for? Said R. 
Johanan: Poor people use them for the purpose of putting 
some trifles in them and then hang them on the necks of their 
daughters. 

It is written ‘‘ And Moses was wroth with the officers of 
the host’’ [Numb. xxxi. 14]. Said R. Na’hmanin the name of 
Rabba b. Abuhu: ‘* Thus said Moses unto Israel: ‘ Have ye 
then returned to your first sin (that ye have let the females 
live) ?’’’ They answered him [ibid. 49]: ‘‘ Thy servants have 
taken the sum of the men of war who have been under our com- 
mand, and there lacketh not one man of us”’ (implying that 
none had sinned). Said Moses again: ‘‘ If such be the case, 
why need ye atonement?’’ They answered: ‘‘ Though we 
have strengthened ourselves to keep aloof from sin, we could 
not put it out of our minds. We have therefore [ibid. 50] 
brought an oblation unto the Lord.’’ On this the school of 
R. Ishmael taught: Why did the Israelites of that generation 
require forgiveness ? Because they had feasted their eyes on 
strange women. 

MISHNA V.: A woman may go out with plaits of hair, be 
they made of her own hair or of another woman or of an ani- 
mal; with Totaphoth or Sarbitin if fastened.* With a hood or 
with a wig in her yard (private ground); with cotton wadding 
in her ear or in her shoe; or with cotton wadding prepared for 
her menstruation; with a grain of pepper or of salt, or with 
whatever else she may be accustomed to keep in her mouth, 
provided she does not put it in her mouth on the Sabbath to 





* See note to preceding Mishna. 


122 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


commence with; if it fell out of her mouth she must not replace 
it. As for a metal or golden tooth, Rabbi permits a woman to 
go out with it, but the sages prohibit it. 

GEMARA: It has been taught: ‘‘ Provided a young woman 
does not go out with (plaits of hair belonging to) an old woman; 
nor an old woman with plaits of hair belonging to a young 
woman.”’ So far as an old woman is concerned, it would be 
nothing but right, for the plaits of a young woman would be 
a source of pride to her (and there is fear of her taking them off 
to show to others); but why should a young woman be prohib- 
ited to go out with plaits belonging to an old woman? They 
are a disgrace to her (and surely she would not take them off 
for exhibition)! The teacher while treating on plaits with 
respect to an old woman also makes mention of the case of 
a young woman (for the sake of antithesis). 

‘“ With a hood or a wig in her yard.’ Said Rabh: ‘ Every- 
thing prohibited by the sages to be worn on public ground must 
not be worn in the yard, save a hood and a wig.’’ R. Anani b. 
Sasson in the name of R. Ishmael said: ‘‘ Everything may be 
worn in the yard like a hood. But why does Rabh discriminate 
in favor of these objects?’’ Said Ulla: ‘‘In order that she 
may not become repulsive to her husband.”’ 

‘““ And with cotton in her ears or in her shoes.’’ Romi b. 
Ezekiel taught only when tied to her ears or her shoes. 

‘““ And cotton wadding prepared for her menstruation.’ “* In 
this case,’’ said Rabha, ‘‘ even if it is not tied it may be worn, 
because, being disgusting, it will not be handled.’’ R. Jere- 
miah b. R. Abba questioned Rabha: ‘‘ How is it if the same was 
prepared with a handle ?’’ And he answered: “‘ Then it is also 
allowed.’’ And so also it was taught by R. Na’hman b. Oshia 
in the name of R. Johanan. 

R. Johanan went to the college with cotton wadding in his 
ears on Sabbath, and his colleagues objected to it. R. Joni 
went into unclaimed ground with it against the opinion of all 
his contemporaries. 

‘““ With a grain of pepper or a grain of salt.’’ The former to 
take away any bad odor of the breath and the latter as a remedy 
for toothache. 

“ Or with whatever else she is accustomed to keep in her mouth,” 
meaning ginger or cinnamon. 

‘4 metal or a gilt tooth,’ etc. Said R. Zera: They differ 
concerning a gold tooth only, for a silver tooth is unanimously 


TRACT SABBATH. iz; 


permitted. And so we have learned plainly ina Boraitha. Said 
Abayi: Rabbi, R. Eliezer, and R. Simeon b. Elazar, all three 
agree to the opinion that anything provoking disgust (or ridi- 
cule) a woman will not wear for show: Rabbi, as just cited; 
R. Eliezer, as he freed a woman bearing a box of cachous or 
a perfume bottle; R. Simeon b. Elazar, as we have learned in 
the following Boraitha: ‘‘ Anything below the hair-net is per- 
mitted to be worn outside.”’ 

MISHINA V/.: Women may go out with a coin fastened to 
a swelling on their feet; little girls may go out with laces on 
and even with screws in their ears. Arabians may go out in 
their long veils and Medians in their mantillas; so may even 
all women go out, but the sages spoke of existing customs. 
She may fold her mantilla around a stone, nut, or a coin 
(used as buttons), provided she does it not especially on the 
Sabbath. 

GEMARA: “‘ Little girls may go out with laces.’’ The father 
of Samuel did not permit his daughters to go out with laces nor 
to sleep together; he made bathing-places for them during the 
month of Nissan, and curtains during the month of Tishri. 
““He did not permit them to go out with laces?’’ Were we 
not taught that girls may go out with laces? The daughters of 
Samuel’s father wore colored (fancy) laces and (lest they take 
them off to show to others) he did not permit them to go out 
with them. 

“* Fold her mantilla around a stone,’ etc. But did not the 
first part (of the Mishna) say that she may fold it, etc.? Said 
Abayi, the last part of the Mishna has reference to a coin (which 
is not permitted). Abayi questioned: May a woman fold her 
mantilla on Sabbath shrewdly around a nut for the purpose of 
bringing it to her little son? And this question is according to 
both; to him who permits subtilty in case of fire, and also 
according to him who forbids it. According to him who per- 
mits it, it may be that only in case of fire he permits, as if it 
were not allowed, he would extinguish it; but this is not the 
case here. And according to him who prohibits it, it may be 
that he does so because the clothing seller usually so bears the 
clothes; but here, as it is not the custom to bear it so, it may 
be that it is permitted ? The question remains. 

MISHNA V/Z/.: The cripple may go out with his wooden 
leg; such is the decree of R. Meir, but R. Jossi prohibits it. 
If the wooden leg has a receptacle for pads, it is subject to 


124 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


defilement. Crutches are subject to defilement by being sat or 
trodden upon;* but one may go out with them on Sabbath and 
enter the outer court (of the Temple). The chair and crutches 
of a paralytic are subject to defilement, and one must not go 
out with them on the Sabbath nor enter the outer court (of the 
Temple). Stilts are not subject to defilement, but nevertheless 
one must not go out with them on Sabbath. 

GEMARA: Rabha said to R. Na’hman: How are we to 
accept the teaching of the Mishna? Did R. Meir permit the 
cripple to go out with a wooden leg on the Sabbath and R. Jossi 
prohibit his doing so, or wice versa? Answered R. Na’hman: 
““T know not.’’ ‘‘ And how shall the Halakha prevail ?’’ An- 
swered R. Na’hman again: ‘“‘I know not.’’ It was taught: 
Samuel and also R. Huna begin the Mishna: ‘‘ A cripple shall 
not,’’ etc. And R. Joseph said: ‘‘ As both sages read the 
Mishna so, we shall do the same.’’ Rabha b. Shira, however, 
opposed: ‘* Was he not aware that when R. Hanon b. Rabha 
taught so to Hyya, the son of Rabh, the father showed him 
with the movement of his hands to change the names? In 
reality Samuel himself has also receded from the former teaching, 
and has corrected: ‘‘ A cripple may go out,”’ so is the decree of 
R. Meir. [Hamoth, tota.] 

““ And must not enter the outer court,’’ etc. A Tana taught 
before R. Johanan that one may go in with them in the outer 
court. Said R. Johanan to him: I teach that a woman may 
perform the “‘ Chalitza’’ + with them (hence they are consid- 
cred shoes), and you say he may go in with them to the outer 
court. Go and teach the contrary. 

MISHNA VI/Z.: Boys may go out with bands and princes 
with golden belts; so may every one else, but the sages adduce 
their instances from existing customs. 

GEMARA: What kinds of bands? Said Ada Mari in the 
name of R. Na’hman b. Baruch, who said in the name of R. 
Ashi b. Abhin, quoting R. Jehudah: ‘‘ Wreaths of Puah roots.’’ 
Said Abayi: ‘‘ My mother told me that three of such wreaths 
give relief (in sickness), five of them produce a complete cure, 
and seven of them are even proof against witchcraft.”’ 

Said R. Aha b. Jacob: ‘‘ And this only if they (the wreaths) 





* Wherever the expression ‘‘ subject to defilement by being sat or trodden upon” 
occurs in the Talmud it refers to being sat or trodden upon by a person afflicted with 
venereal diseases. 

t See the law of Chalitza [Deut. xxv. g]. 


TRACT SABBATH. 125 


have never seen sun, moon, or rain; never heard a hammer fall 
or a cock crow or the fall of footsteps.’’ 

Said R. Na’hman b. Itz’hak: ‘‘ Thy bread is cast upon the 
deep ’’ (meaning the remedy is an impossibility).* 

The rabbis taught: (Women) may go out with a Kutana 
stone (to prevent miscarriage) on the Sabbath. It was said in 
the name of R. Meir that they may even go out with the coun- 
terpoise of a Kutana stone, and not only such (women) as have 
already once miscarried, but even as a preventive to miscar- 
riage, and not only when a woman is pregnant, but lest she 
become pregnant and miscarry. Said R. Jemar b. Shalmia in 
the name of Abayi: But the counterpoise must be an exact one 
and made in one piece. 

MISHNA /X.: It is permitted to go out with eggs of grass- 
hoppers or with the tooth of a fox or a nail from the gal- 
lows where a man was hanged, as medical remedies. Such 
is the decision of R. Meir, but the sages prohibit the using 
of these things even on week days, for fear of imitating the 
Amorites.t 

GEMARA: The eggs of grasshoppers as a remedy for tooth- 
ache; the tooth of a fox as a remedy for sleep, viz., the tooth of 
a live fox to prevent sleep and of a dead one to cause sleep; the 
nail from the gallows where a man was hanged as a remedy for 
swelling. 

‘* As medical remedies,’ such is the decision of R. Meir. 
Abayi and Rabha both said: ‘‘ Anything (intended) for a medi- 
cal remedy, there is no apprehension of imitating the Amorites; 
hence, if not intended as a remedy there zs apprehension of imit- 
tating the Amorites? But were we not taught that a tree which 
throws off its fruit, it is permitted to paint it and lay stones 
around it? It is right only to lay stones around it in order to 
weaken its strength, but what remedy is painting it? Is it not 
imitating the Amorites? (Nay) it is only that people may see 
it and pray for mercy. We have learned in a Boraitha: It is 
written [Leviticus, xiii. 45]: ‘‘ Unclean, unclean, shall he call 
out.’’ (To what purpose?) That one must make his troubles 
known to his fellow-men, that they may pray for his relief. 

Rabhina said: The hanging up of acluster of dates on a date 


’ 





* The text continues with different quack remedies for sickness, melancholy, and 
other things which are neither important nor translatable, and therefore omitted. 

+ See Leviticus, xviii. 3 and 30, where the imitating of the customs of the 
Canaanites and Amorites is forbidden. 


126 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


tree (as a sign that the tree throws off its fruit) is in accordance 
with the above-mentioned teacher. 

If one says: “‘ Kill this cock, for he crowed at night; or kill 
this hen, for she crowed like a cock; or I will drink and leave 
a little over,’’ because of superstition, there is apprehension 
that he imitate the Amorites; but one may put a splinter of 
“Tuth’’* or a piece of glass in a pot, that it may boil the 
quicker. The sages, however, prohibited pieces of glass as 
being dangerous. The rabbis taught: One may throw a hand- 
ful of salt in a lamp that it may burn the brighter, or loam and 
fragments of earthenware that it may burn more slowly. The 
saying “‘ to your health’’ at wine-drinking is no imitation of the 
customs of the Amorites. It happened that R. Agqiba gave 
a banquet in honor of his son, and at every cup that he drank 
he said: ‘‘ To the wine in the mouth and to the health of the 
sages and their disciples.’’ 





* Zilla, according to the commentary of Malkhi Zedek, which means ‘‘a smooth 
shrubby herb, of the mustard family.” 


COALPLER Vit, 


THE GENERAL RULE CONCERNING THE PRINCIPAL ACTS OF LABOR 
ON SABBATH. 


MISHNA JZ.: A general rule was laid down respecting the 
Sabbath. One who has entirely forgotten the principle of 
(keeping) the Sabbath and performed many kinds of work on 
many Sabbath days, is liable to bring but oe sin-offering. He, 
however, who was aware of the principle of Sabbath, but (for- 
getting the day) committed many acts of labor on Sabbath days, 
is liable to bring a separate sin-offering for each and every Sab- 
bath day (which he has violated). One who knew that it was 
Sabbath and performed many kinds of work on different Sab- 
bath days (not knowing that such work was prohibited), is liable 
to bring a separate sin-offering for every principal act of labor 
committed. One who committed many acts all emanating from 
one principal act is liable for but one sin-offering. 

GEMARA: What is the reason that the Mishna uses the 
expression “‘a general rule’’ ? Shall we assume that it means 
to teach us a subordinate rule in the succeeding Mishna, and 
the same is the case with the Mishna concerning the Sabbatical 
year, where at first a general rule is taught and the subsequent 
Mishnas teach a subordinate rule? Why does the Mishna 
relating to tithes teach oe rule and the succeeding Mishna 
another, but does not call the first rule a ‘‘ general rule’’ ? Said 
R. Jose b. Abbin: Sabbath and the Sabbatical years, in both of 
which there are principals and derivatives, he expresses a gen- 
eral rule; tithes, however, in which there are no principals and 
derivatives, no general rule was laid down. But did not Bar 
Kapara teach us a general rule also in tithes ? It must be there- 
fore explained thus: The subject of Sabbath is greater than 
Sabbatical, as the first applies to attached and detached things, 
while the Sabbatical applies only to attached ones. The sub- 
ject of the latter, however, is greater than tithes, as it applies 
to human and cattle food; while tithes applies only to human 
food. And Bar Kapara teaches a general rule in tithes also, 


128 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


because it is greater than peah (corner tithe), as tne former ap- 
plies also to figs and herbs, which is not the case with peah. 

It was taught concerning the statement of the Mishna: He 
who forgot, etc., that Rabh and Samuel both said: Even a 
child that was captured by idolaters or a proselyte who remained 
among idolaters is regarded as one who was aware of the princi- 
ple, but forgot it and is liable; and both R. Johanan and Resh 
Lakish said that the liability falls only upon him who was aware, 
but subsequently forgot; the child and the proselyte in question 
are considered as if they were never aware, and are free. 

An objection was raised from the following: A general rule 
was laid down concerning the observation of the Sabbath. One 
who had entirely forgotten the principle of Sabbath, and had 
performed many kinds of work on many Sabbath days, is liable 
for but ove sin-offering. Howso? Achild which was captured 
by idolaters and a proselyte remaining with idolaters, who had 
performed many acts of labor on different Sabbaths, are liable 
for but one sin-offering; and also for the blood or (prohibited) 
fats which he has consumed during the whole time, and even 
for worshipping idols during the whole time, he is liable for only 
one sin-offering. Munbaz, however, frees them entirely. And 
thus did he discuss before R. Agqiba: Since the intentional 
transgressor and the unintentional are both called sinners, I 
may say: As an intentional one cannot be called so unless he 
was aware that it is a sin, the same is the case with an uninten- 
tional, who cannot be called sinner unless he was at some time 
aware that this is a sin (it is true, then, the above must be con- 
sidered as never having been aware of it). Said R. Aqiba to 
him: ‘‘ I will make an amendment to your decree, as the inten- 
tional transgressor cannot be considered as such unless he is 
cognizant of his guilt at the time of action, so also should not 
the unintentional transgressor be considered as such unless he 
is cognizant at the time of action.’’ Answered Munbaz: “ So it 
is, and the more so after your amendment.”’ Thereupon R. 
Agiba replied: ‘‘ According to your reasoning, one could not 
be called an unintentional transgressor, but an intentional.”’ 
Hence it is plainly stated: ‘‘ How so? Acchild,’’ etc. This is 
only in accordance with Rabh and Samuel, and it contradicts 
R. Johanan and R. Simeon b. Lakish, They may say: “Is 
there not a Tana Munbaz, who freed them? We hold with 
him and with his reason, namely: It is written [Numb. xv. 29]: 
‘“A law shall be for you, for him that acteth through igno- 


TRACT SABBATH. 129 


rance,’’ and the next verse says [ibid. 30], ‘‘ but the person that 
doeth aught with a high hand.’’ The verse compares then the 
ignorant to him who has acted intentionally; and as the latter 
cannot be guilty unless he was aware of his sin, the same is the 
case with the ignorant, who cannot be considered guilty unless 
he was at some time aware of the sin. 

Another objection was raised from a Mishna farther on: 
‘‘ Forty less one are the principal acts of labor.’’ And deliber- 
ating for what purpose the number is taught, said R. Johanan: 
For that, if one performed them a// through forgetfulness, he is 
liable for each of them. How is such a thing (as utter forget- 
fulness) to be imagined ? We must assume that although cog- 
nizant of the (day being) Sabbath, one forgot which acts of 
labor (were prohibited). And this is correct only in accordance 
with R. Johanan, who holds: ‘‘ If one is ignorant of what acts 
of labor constitute (sin punishable with) Karath (being ‘ cut 
off’), and commits one of those acts even intentionally, he is 
bound to bring a sin-offering only.’’ And such an instance can 
be found in case one knows that those acts of labor were pro- 
hibited, at the same time being ignorant of that punishment 
which is Karath. But according to R. Simeon b. Lakish, who 
holds that one must be totally ignorant of both the punishment 
of Karath and what acts are prohibited on Sabbath, how can 
the above case be found? He was aware that Sabbath must be 
kept. But what was he aware of in the observance of Sabbath ? 
He only knew of the law governing the going outside of the 
boundaries of the city. 

But who is the Tana of the following Boraitha? The scrip- 
tural passage, ‘‘ Him that acteth through ignorance,”’ refers to 
one who was ignorant both of the (principle of) Sabbath and the 
prohibition of the acts of labor. One who was cognizant of 
both is referred to by the Scriptures as ‘‘ the person that doeth 
aught with a high hand.’’ If one, however, was cognizant of 
the (principle of) Sabbath, but not of the prohibition of the acts 
of labor, or vice versa, or even if he knew that the acts of labor 
were prohibited, but did not know that they involved culpa- 
bility requiring a sin-offering (while he is not the scriptural man 
‘that acteth through ignorance ’’), still he is culpable of a trans- 
gression requiring a sin-offering ? It is Munbaz mentioned above. 

R. Huna said: One who has been travelling in a desert and 
does not know what day is Sabbath, must count six days from 
the day (on which he realizes) that he has missed the Sabbath, 


VOL. I.—9 


130 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


and observe the seventh. Hyya b. Rabh said: He must observe 
that very day and then continue his counting from that day. 
And what is the point of their differing? The former holds 
that one must act in accordance with the creation (which com- 
menced six days before the Sabbath), while the latter holds that 
one must be guided by Adam's creation (on the eve of Sabbath). 
An objection was made: “‘ If a man while travelling in a desert 
forgot when the Sabbath arrives, he must count ‘one day to 
six’ and then observe the seventh. Does this not mean he must 
count six days and then observe the seventh?’’ Nay; it may 
be said that it means that very day, and continue his counting 
from that day. If this be the case, why are we taught ‘‘ he 
must count one to six’’ ? It should be taught (plainly) he must 
observe a day and continue counting from that day. Moreover, 
we were taught in a Boraitha: ‘‘ If one while travelling in the 
desert forgot when the Sabbath arrives, he must count six days 
and observe the seventh.’’ The objection to R. Hyya b. Rabh 
is sustained. 

Rabha said (referring to the traveller who forgot the Sab- 
bath): ‘‘ On every day, except the one on which he realizes that 
he has missed the Sabbath, he may perform enough labor to 
sustain himself.’’ But one that should do nothing and die (of 
hunger)? Nay; only in case he provided himself with his neces- 
saries on the preceding day. Perhaps the preceding day was 
Sabbath. Therefore read: He may labor even on that day to 
sustain himself. In what respects is that day, then, to be dis- 
tinguished from other days? By means of Kiddush and Habh- 
dalah.* 

Said Rabha again: “‘If he only recollects the number of 
days he has been travelling, he may labor all day on the eighth 
day of his journey, in any event’’ (for he surely did not start 
on his journey on a Sabbath). Is this not self-evident ? Lest 
one say that one would not only not start out on the Sabbath, 
but also not on the day before Sabbath; hence, if he went out 
on the fifth day of the week, he is permitted to work on both 
the eighth and ninth days of his journey. Therefore he comes 
to teach us that only on the eighth day of his journey would he 
be permitted to work, for frequently one comes upon a caravan 
on Friday and starts out even on that day. 





* Kiddush and Habhdalah are the benedictions recited at the commencement and 
termination of the Sabbath, the former over wine or bread and the latter only over 
some beverage. 


TRACT SABBATH. 131 


’ 


‘““ One who has entirely forgotten,’’ etc. Whence is this de- 
duced? Said R. Na’hman in the name of Rabba b. Abuhu: 
‘* There are two verses in the Scripture, viz. [Exod. xxxi. 16]: 
‘And the children of Israel shall keep the Sabbath,’ and [Lev. 
xix. 3]: ‘And my Sabbaths shall ye keep.’ How is this to be 
explained ?’’ The first means the observance of the command- 
ment of Sabbath generally, and the second means one observ- 
ance of the commandment for each Sabbath. 

‘* One who knew (the principle of) Sabbath.’’ What is the 
reason of a difference between the former and the latter part of 
the Mishna? Said R. Na’hman: For what transgression does 
the Scripture make one liable for a sin-offering ? For what is 
done through ignorance? In the former part of the Mishna 
the case of one who was not aware that it was Sabbath is dealt 
with, and hence only one sin-offering is imposed, while in the 
latter the case dealt with is of one who was aware that it was 
Sabbath, but ignorant as to the acts of labor, hence a sin-offer- 
ing for each act is prescribed. 

‘ Liable for a sin-offering,’’ etc. Whence do we deduce the 
distinction between acts of labor? Said Samuel: It is written 
[Exod. xxxi. 14]: ‘‘ Every one that defileth it shall be surely 
put to death.’’ We see, then, that the Scripture has provided 
many deaths* for defiling the Sabbath. But does not the verse 
refer to one who violates the Sabbath wantonly ? As it cannot 
be applied to an intentional violator, for it is already written 
[Exod. xxxv. 2]: Whosoever doeth work thereon shall be put to 
death’’; therefore apply it to an unintentional sinner. How, 
then, will you explain the words ‘‘ put to death’’? That is 
only the pecuniary equivalent (of being put to death) (viz., he 
shall bring a sin-offering which costs money). Why not advance 
the distinction between the acts of labor, as R. Nathan (does 
elsewhere) ? Samuel is not of the opinion of R. Nathan, but of 
R. Jossi, who says that the additional commandment not to 
kindle a fire on the Sabbath was taught additionally for the 
special purpose of conveying to us that one who does kindle 
a fire is not to be punished either with Karath or stoning; for 
we have learned in a Boraitha: The additional commandment 
not to kindle a fire on the Sabbath was taught additionally for 
the special purpose of conveying to us that one who kindles 
a fire on the Sabbath is not to be punished either with Karath 





* The literal translation of the passage Exod. xxxi. 14 is: ‘*‘ Every one that de- 
fileth it [the Sabbath], death shall he die.” 


132 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


or stoning. Such is the opinion of R. Jossi. R. Nathan says 
it is written for the sake of separation (from other acts). Let 
then the separation of acts of labor be adduced whence R. Jossi 
adduces them—in the following Boraitha: It is written [Lev. 
iv. 2]: ‘* And do (of) any (one) of them,”’ as follows: Sometimes 
one is only bound to bring one sin-offering for all transgressions, 
and sometimes one is bound to bring a sin-offering for each and 
every transgression separately. 

Said R. Jossi b. Hanina: ‘‘ Why does R. Jossi explain that 
passage thus? The verse should read ‘ one of them’ (Achath 
mehenoh), but in reality it reads ‘ of one of them’ (Meachath 
mehenoh), or it should read ‘ of one them’ (Meachath henoh), 
but it reads ‘of one of them.’ Therefore he explains that 
‘sometimes one is equal to many and sometimes many equal 
gic, ** 

Rabha questioned R. Na’hman: “‘ How isit if one is igno- 
rant of both (of the day being Sabbath and the prohibition of 
the acts of labor on that day) ? Answered R. Na’hman: ‘‘ Take 
one instance at a time. You say he was ignorant of the day 
being Sabbath; then he is bound to bring a sin-offering. How 
would it be if, on the contrary, I had said that he was ignorant 
of the prohibition of the acts of labor first? Would you say 
that he becomes liable to a sin-offering for each and every act 
performed ?’’ Said R. Ashi: ‘‘ Let us see from the man’s 
actions. How would it be if one came to him and reminded 
him of its being Sabbath (without calling his attention to the 
fact that he was working)? If the man ¢mmediately stopped his 
work, it is clear that he had actually forgotten that it was Sab- 
bath. If, however, the man was reminded by a third party that 
he was working (without having his attention called to the fact 
that it was Sabbath), and he immediately quit his work, it is 
evident that he was not cognizant of the prohibition of the acts 
of labor; hence he would become liable to bring a sin-offering 
for each and every act performed. Said Rabbina to R. Ashi: 
‘““ What difference does it make? If one is reminded that it is 
Sabbath and he quits work, he becomes aware that it is Sab- 
bath, and if he is reminded of his working he also becomes 
aware that the day is Sabbath; hence it makes no difference.”’ 

Rabha said (supposing the following case happened: ‘‘ One 
reaped and ground the equivalent (in size) of a fig on a Sabbath, 





* In that passage there is a superfluous Mem (the Hebrew prefix meaning of or 
frort). Hence its literal translation is ‘‘of one of them.” 


TRACT SABBATH 133 


without knowing that it was Sabbath, and on another Sabbath 
did the same thing, knowing it was Sabbath, but not knowing 
that such acts of labor were prohibited; then remembered that 
he had committed a transgression on the Sabbath through igno- 
rance of the day being Sabbath, and took a sheep and set it aside 
for a sin-offering. Suddenly he recollected that he had also 
committed a transgression on the other Sabbath, through his 
ignorance of the prohibition of the acts of labor. What would 
the law be in such acase? I can say that the sheep set aside 
for a sin-offering for the first transgression suffices also for the 
second, although in reality two sin-offerings were required to 
atone for the second transgression. The one sin-offering would 
suffice, because it is in truth not brought for forgetting the Sab- 
bath, but for reaping and grinding; the reaping in the first 
instance carries with it the reaping in the second, as also the 
grinding in the first instance carries with it the grinding in the 
second, and one sin-offering atones for all. 

Assuming, however, that in the second instance (when he 
forgot about the prohibition of the acts of labor) he (at some 
later time) recollected only having reaped (but forgot that he 
also ground), and having set aside the sin-offering he became 
liable for on account of his transgression in the first instance 
(when he forgot about the Sabbath), he atones for the reaping 
and grinding on the first Sabbath and for the reaping on the 
second Sabbath, but not for the grinding on the second Sab- 
bath; hence (after also recollecting that he had ground) he must 
bring an additional sin-offering. Abayi, however, says: The 
one sin-offering atones for all, because the grinding, which he 
atones for in the first instance, also carries with it the grinding 
in the second instance. Whyso? For the reason that in both 
instances the acts atoned for are analogous. (When a sin-offer- 
ing was brought, a confession was made. In citing the sin com- 
mitted in the first instance grinding was mentioned and applies 
also to the grinding in the second instance. Therefore no addi- 
tional sin-offering is necessary.) 

It was taught: If one has eaten tallow (which is prohibited) 
on two different occasions, and at both times the tallow was the 
equivalent (in size) of an olive (or larger); and afterward he was 
reminded of the first occason, and later on of the second occa- 
sion also, what is the law in his case? R. Johanan says: He 
must bring two sin-offerings. Why so? Because he recol- 
lected the transgressions at different times. Resh Lakish, — 


134 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


however, says: He need bring only one sin-offering. What is 
R. Johanan’s reason? Because it is written [Lev. iv. 28]: 
‘* For his sin, which he hath committed,’’ and he adduces there- 
from that for every sin committed one must bring a separate 
sin-offering, and Resh Lakish holds according to the passage 
[ibid. 26], ‘‘ Concerning his sin, and it shall be forgiven him,”’ 
and claims that it being one and the same sin, only one sin- 
offering is sufficient. But what will Resh Lakish do with the 
verse, ‘‘ For his sin which he hath committed’’? That refers 
to the sin-offering which had already been brought, and there- 
fore could not apply to a later sin. And what about R. Johanan 
and the passage, “‘ Concerning his sin, and it shall be forgiven’’ ? 
R. Johanan explains this as follows: If a man ate tallow equiva- 
lent (in size) to an olive and a half, and later ate another piece 
the size of half an olive. Afterward he recollected having eaten 
tallow, but thought that it was the size of one olive, might 
some not say that the remaining piece eaten in the first instance 
should be added to the piece eaten in the second instance, and 
thus constitute another piece the equivalent (in size) to an olive, 
and make him liable for another sin-offering ? Therefore the 
passage which means: After once having obtained forgiveness 
for the transgression on the first occasion the second cannot be 
counted in with the first. 

It was taught: If one intended to pick up a thing detached 
(for instance, a knife that had fallen in a row of vegetables), and 
while doing so (accidentally) cut off one of the growing vege- 
tables, he is free.* If, however, he intended to cut something 
lying on (but not attached to) the ground, and instead cut off 
something growing out of (attached to) the ground, Rabha 





*In the Tract Kriroth the reason of the man’s non-culpability is explained as fol- 
lows: It is written [Lev. iv. 23], ‘‘ If now his sin wherezz he has sinned come to his 
knowledge,” and this should be supplemented with ‘‘ but not the sin which he had not 
in mind to commit at all.” Whence we see plainly that the Scriptures designate as an 
unintentional sinner only one who knows wherein he has sinned; for instance, if he 
became aware that it was Sabbath, or that the acts performed by him were prohibited. 
In our case, however, where a man intended to pick up a thing but accidentally cut 
a thing, it is evident that no intention to cut existed in the man’s mind, and the intent 
of the ‘‘ wherein he has sinned” in the Scriptures does not apply to him. Rabha 
goes further and says that even if one actually accomplished an act he had in mind 
and which was permissible on the Sabbath, but at the same time accidentally com- 
mitted a prohibited act (as illustrated in the above instance), even in such a case the 
scriptural ‘‘ wherein he has sinned” cannot apply, nor can he be accounted the 
scriptural unintentional sinner who is liable for asin-offering. Abayi, however, differs 
with him, as will be seen farther on. 


TRACT SABBATH. 135 


declares him free, because no intention to cut off the growing 
object existed in the mind of the man; but Abayi declares him 
culpable for the reason that, while the man did not intend to 
cut off what he really did, still the intention to cut was preva- 
lent in the man’s mind, and he really did cut; hence he is what 
the Scriptures refer to as ‘‘ one who acteth unintentionally.’’ 

It was also taught: One who intended to throw (from private 
ground into public) only for a distance of two ells, but threw 
four, is freed by Rabha, for the reason that the original inten- 
tion was to throw within a permissible distance (throwing for 
a distance of two ells only was permitted); but Abayi held him 
culpable, for the reason that the act originally intended was 
accomplished. If one threw in public ground mistaking it for 
private, Rabh holds him free (for the same reason as before), 
and Abayi holds him culpable (also for the same reason as he 
gave in the previous case). Both instances though analogous 
are necessary. In the first instance (of cutting), where Rabh 
holds the offender not culpable, the intention to cut off what 
was prohibited did not exist, but in the second instance (throw- 
ing four ells), it could not be accomplished without (carrying 
out the intention of) throwing for two ells, and passing the two 
ells (the object landing at a distance of four). Now, lest one 
might say that Rabha coincides with the opinion of Abayi, and 
from the latter instance it might be assumed that the offender 
intended to throw two, but threw four ells, hence Rabha holds 
him not culpable, for the intention to throw four ells did not 
exist; but if one threw four ells in what he thought was private 
ground, and which turned out to be public ground, the inten- 
tion was carried out, for the object thrown reached its desired 
destination, and therefore lest one say that in ¢#is case Rabha 
coincides with Abayi, the two instances are illustrated, and we 
are informed that not even in this case does Rabha agree with 
Abayi. 

MISHNA J//.: The principal acts of labor (prohibited on the 
Sabbath) are forty less one—viz.: Sowing, ploughing, reaping, 
binding into sheaves, threshing, winnowing, fruit-cleaning, grind- 
ing, sifting, kneading, baking, wool-shearing, bleaching, comb- 
ing, dyeing, spinning, warping, making two spindle-trees, weav- 
ing two threads, separating two threads (in the warp), tying 
a knot, untying a knot, sewing on with two stitches, tearing in 
order to sew together with two stitches, hunting deer, slaugh- 
tering the same, skinning them, salting them, preparing the 


136 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


hide, scraping the hair off, cutting it, writing two (single) letters 
(characters), erasing in order to write two letters, building, 
demolishing (in order to rebuild), kindling, extinguishing (fire), 
hammering, transferring from one place into another. These 
are the principal acts of labor—forty less one. 

GEMARA: For what purpose is the number (so distinctly) 
given? (They are enumerated.) Said R. Johanan: If one 
labored through total ignorance of the (laws governing the) 
Sabbath, he must bring a sin-offering for every act of labor 
performed. 

** Sowing, ploughing.’’ Let us see: Ploughing being always 
done before sowing, let it be taught first. The Tana (who 
taught as in the Mishna) is a Palestinian, and in his country 
they sow first and then plough. Some one taught that sowing, 
pruning, planting, transplanting, and grafting are all one and the 
same kind of labor. What would he inform us thereby? That 
if one performs many acts of labor, all of the same class, he is 
liable for but one sin-offering. 

Said R. Aha in the name of R. Hyya b. Ashi, quoting 
R. Ami: ‘* One who prunes is guilty of planting, and one who 
plants, transplants, or grafts is guilty of sowing.’’ Of sowing 
and not of planting? I mean to say of sowing also. 

Said R. Kahana: One who prunes and uses the branches for 
fuel is liable for two sin-offerings, one for reaping and one for 
planting. Said R. Joseph: One who mows alfalfa (hay) is guilty 
of mowing and planting both. Said Abayi: One who mows 
clover hay (which sheds its seed when mowed) is liable (for a sin- 
offering) for mowing and sowing. 

‘* Ploughing.’’ There is a Boraitha: Ploughing, digging, fur- 
rowing, are one and the same kind of labor. R. Shesheth said: 
One who removes a knoll of earth in a house becomes liable for 
building, and if in a field he is liable for ploughing. Rabha 
said: Filling up a hole in the house makes one liable for build- 
ing, and in the field for ploughing. R. Aba said:. Digging (the 
same hole) on Sabbath for the purpose of making use of the 
earth alone is free even according to R. Jehudah, who said that 
the performance of an unnecessary act of labor makes one cul- 
pable. He refers to labor that improves an object and not to 
that which spoils it. 

** Mowing.’’ There is a Boraitha: Reaping, vintaging, 
selecting dates, olives, and figs are all one and the same kind 
of labor. 


TRACT SABBATH. 137 


** Binding into sheaves.’’” Rabha said: One who gathers salt 
from salt works is guilty of the act of binding into sheaves. 
Abayi, however, said that binding into sheaves applies only to 
produce of the soil. 

‘* Threshing.’’ There is a Boraitha: Threshing, carding, and 
hackling belong to one and the same class of labor. 

“* Threshing, winnowing, frutt-cleaning,’’ etc. Is not win- 
nowing, fruit-cleaning, and sifting one and the same class of 
labor? Abayi and Rabha both said: ‘‘ Acts of labor executed 
during the construction of the tabernacle are enumerated sepa- 
rately, though they are of an analogous nature.’’ Let pound- 
ing then also be enumerated (as labor, inasmuch as the spices for 
incense had to be pounded). Said Abayi: (It is true! This 
is also one of the acts of labor performed at the construction of 
‘the tabernacle.) But as the poor people do not pound their 
grain, generally using it in its natural state, it is not included in 
the principal acts of labor. Rabha, however, said: ‘‘ The 
Mishna should be understood in the sense Rabbi expounded it: 
The principal acts of labor are forty less one. Should pounding 
be included, there would be forty even.’’ Let then one of the 
principal acts (enumerated in the Mishna) be stricken out and 
substituted by pounding. Hence it is best to accept Abayi’s 
reason. 

The rabbis taught: If there are several kinds of food before 
a man on the Sabbath, he may select such as he desires and 
even set it aside, but he must not separate the good from the 
spoilt. If he does this, he is liable for a sin-offering. How is 
this to be understood ? R. Hamnuna explained it thus: ‘‘ One 
may select the good from the spoilt for immediate or later con- 
sumption, but he must not pick out the spoilt, leaving the good 
for later consumption. If he does this, he is liable.’’ Abayi 
opposed: “‘ Is there anything mentioned (in the Mishna) about 
separating the good from the spoilt ?’’ He therefore explained 
the Boraitha as follows: ‘‘ Food may be selected for immediate 
consumption and setting aside, but not for later consumption. 
If this is done, it is considered the same as storing it, and in- 
volves the liability.’”” This was reported to Rabha by the 
rabbis, and he said: Na’hmeni (Abayi) has explained it correctly. 

When two kinds of food were before a man and he selected 
part of one kind and ate it, then selected part of the other kind 
and set it aside, R. Ashi learned in the Boraitha that the man 
is free, but R. Jeremiah of Diphti learned that he zs culpable. 


138 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Is there not a Boraitha which teaches that he is? This presents 
no difficulty. R. Ashi refers to food served in a basket or 
a bowl, but R. Jeremiah learned that the man sifted the food in 
a sieve. 

When R. Dimi came to Babylon he related: It happened on 
a Sabbath, when R. Bibhi’s turn came to entertain the disciples, 
that R. Ami and R. Assi arrived. R. Bibhi placed before them 
a basket filled with fruit (together with the leaves and sprigs), 
and I am not aware what his reason was. Was he of the opin- 
ion that it is forbidden to separate food from trash, or was it 
his liberality ? 

Hyzkiyah said: ‘‘ One who shells pressed lupines (on the 
Sabbath) is culpable.’’ Does this mean to say that it is forbid- 
den to separate food from trash? Nay; there is quite a differ- 
ence where pressed lupines are concerned; they must be scalded 
just seven times and immediately shelled, for if they are not 
immediately shelled they become putrid; therefore to shell 
them is equal to separting trash from good food. 

“ Grinding.’’ Said R. Papa: To chop beets is the same as 
to grind. Splitting wood for kindling is the same as grinding. 
Said R. Ashi: Splitting leather is the same class of work as 
cutting by measure (if he is particular about it). 

‘ Kneading, baking.’’ R. Papa said: “‘ The Tana of the 
Mishna omitted the cooking of spices that took place in the 
tabernacle and instead of that taught about baking.’’ It is 
because the Tana follows the order of baking (first comes knead- 
ing, then baking, and cooking is included in the latter). 

‘« Wool-shearing, bleaching.’’ Rabba b. b. Hana in the name 
of R. Johanan said: Spinning wool from a live animal on the 
Sabbath makes one liable for three sin-offerings; one for shear- 
ing, one for carding, and one for spinning. R. Kahana, how- 
ever, said: This is not the way shearing, carding, and spinning 
are done (hence he is not at all culpable). 

If one plucked quills, cut off their tops, and singed them on 
both sides, the rabbis taught that he is liable for three sin- 
offerings. 

‘* Tying, untying.’’ What kind of tying and untying was 
done at the construction of the tabernacle? Rabha, others 
say R. Ilayi, said: This is the way of the (snail) fishers; to untie 
their nets from one load and tie them on another. 

‘« Sewing on with two stitches.’’ But two stitches do not 
hold (hence it cannot be called work)? Said Rabba b. b. Hana 


TRACT SABBATH. 139 


in the name of R. Johanan: Provided two knots are made, one 
at each end, 

‘* Tearing in order to sew together with two stitches,’’ Was 
there any tearing done at the tabernacle? Both Rabba and 
R. Zera said: When a curtain became moth-eaten, they tore 
out the moth-eaten part and sewed it together. 

R. Zutra b. Tobiah in the name of Rabh said: ‘‘ To rip a 
seam on the Sabbath makes one liable; to learn from a magician 
is a sin involving capital punishment; one who knows the 
science of astronomy and does not make use of it, is not worth 
being spoken of.’’ What is a magician? Rabh says a ‘‘ wiz- 
ard.’’ Samuel says a ‘‘ blasphemer.’’ R. Simeon b. Pazi in 
the name of R. Joshua b. Levi said: Whoever knows the science 
of astronomy, and does not occupy himself with it is the party 
alluded to [Isaiah, v. 12]: ‘‘ But the deeds of the Lord they 
regard not and the works of his hands they behold not.’’ Said 
Samuel b. Na’hmeni in the name of R. Jonathan: ‘‘ Whence 
the adduction that we are bound to learn astronomy ?’’ From 
the passage [Deut. iv. 6]: “‘ Keep, therefore, and do them, for 
this is your wisdom and your understanding before the eyes of 
the nations.’” And what kind of wisdom is before the eyes of 
the nations? You must say that it is astronomy. 

““ Hunting deer.’’ The rabbis taught: To catch a slug and 
squeeze it so that it bleed is a transgression involving only a sin- 
offering. R. Jehudah says, involving two sin-offerings, for R. 
Jehudah holds that squeezing comes in the class of threshing, 
but the rabbis told him that squeezing is not threshing. What 
reason do the rabbis give for their opinion ? Said Rabha: Their 
reason is that threshing can only be applied to produce of the 
soil. 

“* Slaughtering.’’ Under which category ? Rabh said ‘‘ dye- 
ing,’’ and Samuel said “‘ taking life.’’ Said Rabh: ‘‘I said 
something which may seem absurd, and so as to prevent future 
generations from deriding me I will give a reason for what 
I said: Butchers are in the habit of coloring the throat of the 
carcasses with blood, in order that people may see (that the 
meat is still fresh) and be induced to buy.’”’ 

‘* Salting the hide,’’ etc. Is not salting a hide preparing it ? 
Both R. Johanan and Resh Lakish said: ‘‘ Strike out one of 
them in the Mishna and substitute it with ‘ marking.’ ”’ 

‘* Scraping the hair off,” etc. R. Aha b. Hanina said: To 
polish a floor on the Sabbath is a transgression of the same 


140 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


order as scraping off the hair of the hide. Said R. Hyya b. 
Abba: R. Ashi told me three things in the name of R. Joshua 
b. Levi: Sawing rafters on the Sabbath (that they may be 
equal in size and pointed) makes one liable the same as “‘ cut- 
ting.’’ Daubing a plaster on a piece of cloth makes one liable 
the same as ‘‘ scraping hair off.’’ Smoothing a stone makes 
one culpable of ‘‘ hammering.’’ R. Simeon b. Kisma in the 
name of R. Simeon b. Lakish, said: Painting pictures on ves- 
sels or blowing out glassware makes one culpable the same as 
hammering. R. Jehudah said: Removing a border from cloth 
also makes one as culpable as hammering; but only in case one 
is particular about having the border remain on his cloth. 

‘* Writing two letters.’’ The rabbis taught: ‘‘ If one wrote 
one large letter instead of two small ones, he is not guilty of 
any transgression; but to erase a large letter, in the place of 
which two small letters can be written, makes one liable for 
a sin-offering (for the erasing is done with the intent to write, 
and two small letters are evidently needed). Said R. Mena’hem 
b. Jossi: ‘‘ This is the only case where the law is more rigorous 
with erasing than with writing.”’ 

‘* Building, demolishing,’’ etc. Both Rabba and R. Zera 
said: All work which is done in the last stages is considered the 
same as hammering (which is generally the finishing work). 

‘* These are the principal acts of labor.’’ ‘‘ These,’’ to ex- 
clude a derivation of the same kind as the principal when it is 
done with the principal together, and as to which R. Eliezer 
makes one liable for the derivation also. 

“Less one,”’ to exclude the extension of the warp or the woof, 
which R. Jehudah added to the principal acts ; but the rabbis said: 
Extending the warp is included in warping and extending the 
woof is included in weaving. 

MISHNA /J///.: And there is also another rule which was laid 
down: Whosoever carries out on the Sabbath such things as are 
fit and proper to be stored and in such a quantity as is usually 
stored, is liable; but whatever is not fit and proper to be stored, 
nor in such a quantity as is generally stored, only Ze who would 
store this is liable (because the storing shows that for him it is 
valuable). | 

GEMARA: “Whatever is not fit and proper.” Said R. 
Elazar: The latter part of the Mishna is not in accordance with 
R. Simeon b. Elazar, who said in the following Boraitha: “ There 
is a rule that all which is zo¢ fit and proper to be stored nor in 


TRACT SABBATH. 141 


such a quantity as is generally stored, if held by one man fit and 
another man has carried it out, the latter becomes liable for the 
intention of the owner.” 

MISHNA JV: It is forbidden to carry about chopped straw 
in quantities of a cow’s mouthful, stalks in quantities of a camel’s 
mouthful, stubble in quantities of a lamb’s mouthful, herbs in 
quantities of a kid’s mouthful, leek and onion leaves, if fresh, 
equal in size to a dried fig, and if dry in quantities of a kid’s 
mouthful. The different kinds of fodder are, however, not to be 
counted together, as the prescribed quantities are not equal for all. 

GEMARA: “Chopped straw.’’ What kind? Said R. Jehudah: 
‘‘ Pease stalks.” When Rabhin came to Babylon he said thus: 
There is no diversity of opinion concerning the carrying out of 
straw in quantities of a cow’s mouthful for a camel, as all agree 
that in such a case one is liable; the point of their differing is 
concerning the carrying out of stalks (which is not fit food fora 
cow) in quantities of a cow’s mouthful for a cow. R. Johanan 
frees him, as he holds that unfit food cannot be regarded as nu- 
trition; and Resh Lakish makes him liable, as he holds that even 
such is considered nutrition. 

“Stubble in quantities of a lamb’s mouthful.’ But does not a 
Boraitha state “the size of a dried fig’? Both quantities are 
equal. 

“Leek and onion leaves, if fresh,” etc. Said R. Jossi b. Hanina: 
Inferior food is not to be counted in with superior (in order to 
make out the prescribed quantity). Superior food, however, may 
be counted with the inferior (in order to complete the prescribed 
quantity). 

MISHNA V.: The carrying out of an article of food the size 
of a dried fig makes one liable. And the different kinds of them 
are to be counted together, for the prescribed quantity is the 
same for all kinds, with the exception of husks, kernels, and 
stalks; likewise bran, both coarse and fine. R. Jehudah says 
that the husks of lentils are not excepted, because they are boiled 
with the lentils and are counted in the same (as food). 

GEMARA: “Except bran,” etc. Is not fine as well as coarse 
bran to be counted in (the same as food)? Is there not a Mishna 
concerning the separation of the first dough, that one is bound to 
separate the first dough made of flour mixed with its fine or 
coarse bran? Answered Abayi: “ This is no contradiction. Poor 
people only generally use such mixed flour (when Sabbath is con- 
cerned something possessing real value is always spoken of).” 


142 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


“ The husks of lentils are not excepted,” etc. Husks of len- 
tils only, and not of beans? Did not a Boraitha state that R. 
Jehudah said, “husks of beans and lentils”? This presents no 
difficulty. The Mishna refers to husks of new lentils and the 
Boraitha refers to old lentils and beans. And why not old ones? 
Said R. Abuhu: Because they (the husks of lentils and beans) are 
black and when dished up look like flies in a bowl (they are not 
eaten with the food and therefore are not counted in). 


CHAPTER Vili. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE PRESCRIBED QUANTITIES OF VICT- 
UALS AND BEVERAGES WHICH MUST NOT BE CARRIED ABOUT ON 
THE SABBATH. 


MISHNA /.: The prescribed quantities (of victuals and bever- 
ages) prohibited to be carried about on the Sabbath (are as fol- 
lows): Sufficient wine in a goblet, which with the addition of a 
certain quantity of water would make a full goblet of wine (fit to 
drink); * milk to the quantity of a mouthful, honey sufficient to 
cover a wound with, oil sufficient to anoint a small limb with, and 
water in quantities sufficient for a medical bath for the eyes. For 
all other liquids and also of whatever can be poured out, the pre- 
scribed quantity is a quarter of a lug (about a quart). R. Simeon 
says: The prescribed quantities for the liquids enumerated in this 
Mishna are also a quarter of a lug, and the various prescribed 
quantities specified apply only to those who store such liquids. 

GEMARA: A Boraitha, in addition to this Mishna, states: 
“The quantity which suffices for a good goblet of wine.” What 
is to be understood by a good goblet? The goblet used in bene- 
diction + after meals. 

R. Na’hman in the name of R. Abuhu said: “ A goblet used at 
benediction after meals must contain no less than a fourth of a 
quarter lug (of pure wine), so that when. mixed with water the 
prescribed quantity (a quarter lug) will be made.” Said Rabha: 
We have learned this in our Mishna: “ Sufficient wine in a gob- 
let, which with addition of water would make a full goblet ’— 
commented on by the Boraitha to mean “ which would make a 
good goblet.’”’ From the close of the Mishna we learn: “ For all 
other liquids the prescribed quantity is a quarter of a lug.” [And] 
he is in accordance with his theory elsewhere, that wine which is 
not strong enough to be mixed with three parts of water is not 





* The wines used in Palestine were so strong that they had to be mixed with 
water in order to make them fit to drink. 
+ At the benediction after meals a goblet possessing certain qualities and which is 
called a goblet of benediction must be used. as ordained in the Tract Benedictions, 


144 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


considered wine at all. Said Abayi: “There are two objections 
to this: Firstly, there is a Mishna that wine fit to drink is such 
as has been mixed with two-thirds water, like the wine of Sharon ; 
secondly, do you think that the water in the pitcher (intended for 
mixing with the wine) is counted in?” Rejoined Rabha: The 
first objection does not hold good, as Sharon wine is an exception, 
which although weak is nevertheless good ; or it may be that there 
the particularity is the color, which is not changed by an addition 
of two-thirds; but concerning taste, I say that only one which 
can bear three-fourths of water is considered. As to the second 
objection, concerning water in the pitcher, it is also nothing as 
concerning Sabbath. The quality and not the quantity is consid- 
ered, and the wine in question is of that quality. 

There is a Boraitha that the prescribed quantity for the ex- 
tract of wine is the size of an olive. So said R. Nathan. And 
R. Joseph said that R. Jehudah agrees with him in a Mishna, Tract 
Nidah (which will be translated there). 

The rabbis taught: The prescribed quantity for animal milk 
is the equivalent of a mouthful; for human milk and the white of 
* an egg, as much as is used for the preparation of a salve for a sore 
eye; when mixed with water, the prescribed quantity is as much 
as is used to bathe both eyes with. 

“Honey sufficient to cover a wound with.’’ A Boraitha states: 
“Sufficient to cover the mouth of a wound with.” 

Said R. Jehudah in the name of Rabh: The Holy One, blessed 
be He, has created nothing useless in the world. He created the 
snail as a remedy for a sore, the fly for the sting of a wasp, the 
mosquito for the bite of a serpent, the serpent for the mange, and 
the lizard for the bite of a scorpion. 

The rabbis taught: There are five terrors through which the 
strong succumb to the weak. The Maphgia terrorizes the lion,* 
the mosquito the elephant, the lizard the scorpion, the swallow 
the eagle, and the kilbith (a small fish) the whale. Said R. 
Jehudah in the name of Rabh: Is any similarity to be found in 
the Scripture? [Amos, v.g]: “That causeth wasting to prevail 
against the strong.” 

R. Zera once met R. Jehudah standing at the door of his 
(R. Jehudah’s) father-in-law in a very cheerful mood, and dis- 
posed to answer a whole world full of questions. He asked 





* Maphgia is a species of insect, unknown to us at the present day, of which 
Rashi said that it was a small animal whose voice was so strong that when a lion hears 
it, he is afraid of it, taking it for a very great animal. 


TRACT SABBATH. 145 


him: ‘‘ What is the reason that (in a flock) the she-goats gen- 
erally go ahead of the sheep ?’’ And he answered: “ In accord- 
ance with the Creation: At first darkness, then light ’’ (she-goats 
are generally dark and lambs [or sheep] white). ‘*‘ Why are she- 
goats not covered with a tail ?’’ asked the former again. And he 
answered: *‘ Those who cover us are (in turn) covered, and those 
that do not cover us are not covered.’’ (Because sheep provide 
us with wool, they are also provided with cover.) ‘‘ Why has a 
camel a short tail?’’ ‘‘ Because it feeds on thorns (in order that 
the thorns may not catch in its tail).”’ 

And ‘‘ Why has an ox a long tail ?’’ ‘‘ Because he grazes in 
plains and must protect himself from the gnats.’’ ‘‘ Why are 
the feelers of a locust soft ?’’ ‘‘ Because the locusts swarm in 
fields; were their feelers hard, the locusts would be blinded by 
losing them in knocking against trees, for Samuel said, all that 
is necessary to blind a locust is to tear off his feelers.’’ ‘‘ What 
is the reason that the lower eyelids of a hen are turned up (and 
cover the upper eyelids) ?’’ ‘‘ Because a hen soars to her roost 
and (in a house full of smoke) she might be blinded by the smoke 
from below.”’ 

The rabbis taught the following: ‘*‘ Three creatures grow 
stronger as they grow older, viz.: Fishes, serpents, and swine.’’ 

‘* Owl sufficient to anoint a small limb with,”’ 2.e., a little finger. 
At the school of R. Janai it was thus explained: ‘* It means the 
smallest limb of a one-day-old infant.’’ And the same was said 
by R. Simeon b. Elazar. 

‘* Water sufficient for a medical bath for the eyes.’’ Said 
Abayi: Let us see!’ Of an article which is very often used for 
one purpose and seldom for another, the rabbis always leniently 
permitted the maximum quantity to be used, as the prescribed 
quantity, of the article much in use. Again, when an article is 
used alike for several purposes, the rabbis restrict the prescribed 
quantity to its minimum: (to be more explicit) wine is frequently 
used as a beverage and only at times as a medicament; hence the 
rabbis regard it solely as a beverage (and determine the maximum 
quantity) ; the same is the case with milk; honey, however, which 
is used to a greater extent as a medicine than for nutritive pur- 
poses, is regarded as a medicine and therefore restricted to the 
prescribed quantity for medicines (which is a smaller quantity 
than a beverage). What is the reason, then, that the rabbis re- 
strict water, which is certainly more of a beverage than a medi- 
cament, to the minimum quantity? Rabha answered: They 


VOL, I,—I0 


146 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


hold with the opinion of Samuel, who declared that all liquids 
used as medicine for the eyes inflame and blind, except water, 
which soothes and does not blind (and in this case the Mishna 
has reference to one who carried about water on the Sabbath as 
a medicament for the eyes). 

‘* For all other liquids, the prescribed quantity ts a quarter of a 
lug.’ The rabbis taught: For blood and all other liquids the 
prescribed quantity is a quarter of a lug. R. Simeon b. Elazar 
said the prescribed quantity for blood is as much as is used to 
apply to one eye; because that quantity is used when the eye is 
afflicted with a cataract. 

All these prescribed quantities apply only to those who carry 
(the victuals or beverages) about. To those, however, who store 
them (the victuals or beverages) the carrying of even the least 
imaginable quantity is prohibited (because from his storing them 
we see that he considers them valuable); but R. Simeon says all 
these prescribed quantities apply to such as stored (victuals and 
beverages and hence considered them valuable); but as for per- 
sons who only carried them out, for all beverages (whether used 
also for medical purposes or not) if carried out in any quantities 
less than a quarter of a lug there is no culpability. 

The former teacher said that ‘‘ those prescribed quantities 
only refer to those who carry out,’’ but to ‘‘ those who store them 
the carrying of even the least imaginable quantity is prohibited.”’ 
Is the one who stores not also a carrier (he is culpable for carry- 
ing and not for storing) ? 

Answered Abayi: The Boraitha treats of a case where a mas- 
ter ordered his retainer to clear off the table. If the retainer 
removed something of value to everybody from the table, it 
constituted a quantity which must not be carried about on the 
Sabbath. If the thing was of value only to the master and 
the retainer carried it out, he (the retainer) is culpable, in spite 
of the fact that the thing was of value to his master alone. 
(Hence he is called one who stores, and not a carrier) for it signi- 
fies that the thing is worth storing. 

Again, the former teacher said: ‘‘ And the sages agree with 
R. Simeon that the prescribed quantity of slops is a quarter of a 
lug.’’ Of what use are slops? Said R. Jehudah: ‘‘ To prepare 
mortar with.’’ But were we not taught that the prescribed quan- 
tity for mortar is only as much as suffices to make the mouth of 
a bellows-pipe with? Aye, but for the purpose of preparing 
mortar, a man would not trouble himself to carry out so small 


TRACT SABBATH, — , 147 


a quantity as is sufficient to make a mouth of a bellows-pipe, 
hence a quarter of a lug would be the least that would be carried 
out to make mortar with. 

MISHNA JZ: The prescribed quantity for rope is as much 
as suffices to make a handle for a basket; for reeds, as much as 
suffices to hang a fine or coarse sieve thereon: R. Jehudah says: 
As much as is sufficient to take the measure of a child’s shoe; for 
paper, as much as suffices to write a toll-bill on—a toll-bill itself 
must zot be carried out; the prescribed quantity for paper that 
has been erased is as much as will wrap the top of a perfume 
bottle. The prescribed quantity for vellum is as much as suffices 
for the covering of an amulet; for parchment, as much as 
suffices for the writing of the smallest portion of the phylacteries, 
which is ‘‘ Hear, O Israel’’; for ink, as much as is necessary for 
the writing of two letters (characters); for paint, as much as will 
paint oneeye. The prescribed quantity for (bird) lime is as much 
as will suffice to put on a lime twig; for pitch or sulphur, as 
much as will cover a hole (in a quicksilver tube); for wax, 
as much as will fill up a small leakage (in a utensil); for loam, as 
much as suffices to make an orifice for a pair of bellows used by 
goldsmiths; R. Jehudah says the prescribed quantity for loam 
is as much as will make a stand for a goldsmith’s crucible; for 
clay, as much as will cover the mouth of a goldsmith’s crucible; 
for lime, as much as will cover the little finger of a maiden; R. 
Jehudah says for lime the prescribed quantity is as much as will 
cover the temple of a maiden; R. Nehemiah says as much as 
will cover the back part of a maiden’s temple. 

GEMARA: “‘ For paper, as much as suffices to write a toll-bill 
on.’’ Thereisa Boraitha: ‘‘ The legal size of a toll-bill is a piece 
of paper large enough to contain two letters.’’ Is this not con- 
tradictory to the Boraitha which says that the carrying out of a 
piece of blank paper large enough for two letters of ordinary size 
to be written on makes one liable? Answered R. Shesheth: 
‘* The two letters referred to by the Mishna are the letters used 
by the toll-master (usually extra large letters). Rabha, how- 
ever, said that the piece of paper referred to is large enough for 
two letters and has a margin by which it can be held. 

The rabbis taught: If one carry out on the Sabbath an un- 
paid promissory note he is liable, but not so fora paidone. But 
R. Jehudah said: The same is the case with a paid-up note, for 
its value lies therein, that the owner may show it to a prospective 
creditor in order to prove promptness of former payments. What 


148 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


is the point of their differing? Said R. Joseph: “ They differ 
if it is allowed to preserve a paid note. According to the rabbis 
it is prohibited, and according to R. Jehudah it may be done.* 

““ For vellum ts as much as suffices to make a cover Jor an 
amulet.’’ Rabha questioned R. Na’hman: ‘‘ Of what size ?”’ and 
the latter answered: ‘‘ As we were taught in the Mishna, as much 
as will suffice to make a cover for an amulet.’’ And what is the 
size in regard to tanning? The same quantity. And where do 
you take this from? From the Mishna farther on, that gives the 
same quantity for wool preparing to be woven and for already 
woven. The same is here as it is for tanning; the quantity is 
the same as if already tanned. (The further discussion is re- 
peated in many places, and each is translated in its proper place.) 

““ Parchment as much as suffices to write thereon the smallest 
portion,’’ etc. Is this not a contradiction to the Boraitha which 
teaches that the prescribed quantity for parchment and double 
parchment (60-&éo705) is as much as suffices to write a Mezuzah 
(inscription on the door-posts) on? The Mezuzah mentioned in 
the Boraitha refers to the Mezuzah contained in the phylacteries. 
Does the Boraitha call phylacteries Mezuzah? Yea, it does else- 
where. But since the latter part of the Boraitha teaches explicitly 
that the prescribed quantity for parchment is as much as is re- 
quired for writing the smallest portion of the phylacteries, which 
is ‘‘ Hear, O Israel,’’ is it not to be assumed that in the former 
part of the Boraitha a Mezuzah proper is meant? Read: What 
is the prescribed quantity for parchment and double parchment ? 
For the latter as much as is required for the writing of a Mezuzah; 
and the former, for the writing of the smallest portion of the 
phylacteries, which is ‘‘ Hear, O Israel.’’ 

Rabh said: “‘ Double parchment is the same as parchment. 
The same as we may write the portions of the phylacteries on 
parchment, so may we also write them on double parchment.” 
Were we not taught ‘‘ parchment sufficient,’’ etc., which cer- 
tainly does not mean double parchment? Nay, it is only a 
better observance to write on parchment than on double parch- 
ment. 

‘“ For ink,” etc. A Boraitha adds: The prescribed quantity 
for dry ink is as much as will suffice for the writing of two let- 
ters; for prepared ink as much as a quill or stub will require to 
write the two letters with. Said Rabha: For carrying out suffi- 





* Abayi and Rabba also discuss the same note, but this is repeated in the Third 
Gate, in whose translation we are now engaged, and is, therefore, omitted here, 


TRACT SABBATH. 149. 


cient ink for two letters and writing the two letters while carry- 
ing the ink, one is culpable; for the writing is equivalent to 
depositing a thing inaplace. But for carrying out sufficient ink 
for one letter only, and writing that letter while carrying the 
ink, afterward carrying out another quantity of ink sufficient for 
one letter and writing the other letter while carrying the ink, 
one is not culpable; for by the time the second letter was written 
(the ink of the first letter dried out and) the prescribed quantity 
of ink was not visible. Again Rabha said: For carrying out 
food to the size of one-half of a dried fig, laying it down, and 
then carrying out another quantity of like size (one is not cul- 
pable), for it is considered as if the first quantity had been con- 
sumed by fire. But why should it be thus considered ? Is it not 
lying there yet? He means to say: If one picked up the first 
before he laid down the second, the first is to be considered as if 
consumed by fire, and hence one is not culpable. 

“* For paint,’’ etc. Is it not a fact that people never dye one 
eye only? Said R. Huna: Modest women veil one eye and only 
paint the other. To this explanation some one objected, viz.: 
For paint as a remedy the prescribed quantity is as much as will 
dye one eye, said R. Simeon b. Elazar, but as a means for 
beautifying the prescribed quantity is as much as will dye two 
eyes. Hillel, the son of R. Samuel b. Nahmeni, explained it by 
saying that R. Simeon b. Elazar referred to country damsels who 
dye both eyes. 

“* For bird lime as much as ts sufficient to put on a lime twig.” 
There is a Boraitha: As much as is sufficient to put on a twig 
for the purpose of catching birds. 

“* For pitch and sulphur,’’ etc. A Boraitha states: Sufficient 
to fill up a hole in a quicksilver tube. 

‘* For loam,’’ etc. A Boraithastates: Sufficient to fill up the 
cracks in a small stove. 

‘* For clay,’’ etc. The rabbis taught: It is prohibited to carry 
out hair for the purpose of mixing it with clay used to cover a 
goldsmith’s bellows-pipe with. 

‘* For lime,’’ etc. A Boraitha states: To cover the smallest 
finger of a damsel. Said R. Jehudah in the name of Rabh: 
Daughters of Israel, when they become of age, and they have 
not yet developed the signs of puberty, the poor smear their 
bodies with lime, the rich ones with fine meal, and princesses 
with myrrh oil. What is myrrh oil? oraxty. And R. Jere- 
miah b. Aba said: Olive oil from olives which were only one- 


150 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


third ripe. There is a Boraitha: R. Jehudah said: It is called 
(in Menachoth) anphiknun (oupaviov); and why do they anoint 
with this? Because it removes the hair and makes the com- 
plexion clear. R. Bibi had such a daughter and he anointed her 
with the same, each member of her body separately; and finally 
one of the prominent men paid him four hundred zuz and 
married her. He had a Gentile neighbor who also had such a 
daughter, and he anointed her whole body at one time, and she 
died; said he: ‘‘ R. Bibi has murdered my daughter.’’ Said R. 
Na’hman: “‘R. Bibi, who used to drink beer, his daughter 
needed the anointing, but our daughters do not need it, for we 
do not drink beer.”’ 

“As much as is sufficient to cover,’’ etc. What is meant by 
Kalkub and Andiphi? Said Rabh: The temple, and the 
hair between it and the ear. Are we to understand from the 
Mishna that the prescribed quantity permitted by R. Jehudah 
is larger than that of the rabbis? Is it not a fact that the rabbis 
allow the larger prescribed quantity ? Aye; R. Jehudah allows 
a larger quantity than R. Nehemiah, but still a smaller quantity 
than the rabbis. Or it is possible that an Andiphi means a fore- 
head, from the following narration: ‘‘ It happened that a Galilean 
once came to Babylon and was requested to lecture on meta- 
physics. The Galilean consented and began: I will interpret to 
you something in the style of R. Nehemiah. Meanwhile a wasp 
flew out of the wall, stung him on the Andiphi (forehead) and 
the Galilean died on the spot. It was said that he died a merited 
death.’’* 

MISHNA J///.: For sealing-wax the prescribed quantity is as 
much as is required for the sealing of a bale of goods, so is the 
decree of R. Aqiba; the sages, however, say for the sealing 
of a letter. For dung or fine sand as much as is required to 
fertilize (the soil around) a cabbage stalk, according to R. Aqiba, 
and to the sages as much as is required to fertilize (the soil 
around) a leek stalk. For coarse sand as much as is required 
to fill a trowel, for reed as much as is required to make a writing- 
pen from, or should it be thick or split, as much as is required 
to fry the softest beaten egg with, (which) mixed with oil, (lies) 
in a hot shell. 

GEMARA: “‘ Sufficient to filla trowel.’’ A Boraitha states: 
(For coarse sand the prescribed quantity is) as much as is required 





* A Mishna teaches elsewhere that it is a sin to lecture on metaphysics, outside of 
the university. 


‘4 TRACT SABBATH. 151 


to fill the trowel of a plasterer. Who is the Tana that holds that 
sand is an improvement on plaster? Said R. Hisda: R. Jehudah 
of a Boraitha (Baba Bathra, 604); Rabha, however, said it may be 
also in accordance with the rabbis, as they hold that the spoiling 
(of the whiteness) of the plaster (through the admixture of sand) 
is an improvement of its durability. 

‘“ For reed as much as ts required to make a writing-pen.”” A 
Boraitha teaches: A pen that reaches the joints of the fingers, 

“Or should it be thick.’’ A Boraitha teaches: To fry a 
beaten egg mixed with oil. Said Mar b. Rabhina to his son: 
‘* Didst thou ever hear what is understood by the softest egg ?’”’ 
He answered that R. Shesheth said it was a hen’s egg. Why 
does the Mishna call it a light (soft) egg? Because the sages 
found that no eggs are cooked as quickly as pullets’ eggs. 
Why is it that all other prescribed quantities prohibited to be 
carried out on the Sabbath are of the size of a dried fig, and here 
the quantity is of the size of anegg? Answered R. Na’hman: 
‘“ Even here is meant the quantity of a dried fig from an egg.”’ 

MISHNA /V.: The quantity of a bone is that large enough 
to be made into a spoon—R. Jehudah says large enough to be 
made into a key; glass of sufficient size to be used for scraping 
off the points of a weaver’s spindles; a splinter or a stone large 
enough to throw at a bird—R. Elazar b. Jacob says to throw at 
an animal. 

GEMARA: Is it to be understood from the Mishna that the 
prescribed quantity allowed by R. Jehudah is larger than that 
allowed by the rabbis? Is it not a fact that the rabbis allow the 
larger? Said Ulla: (R. Jehudah refers to) the tooth of a key. 

‘* Glass of sufficient size,’’ etc. A Boraitha states: Sufficient 
glass to cut two threads at once. 

“A splinter,’’ etc. Said R. Na’hman in the name of R. 
Johanan: ‘“‘ Provided it is large enough to hurt.’’ But how 
large should it be? R. Elazar b. Jacob teaches in a Boraitha: 
The weight of ten zuz. 

Zunin once entered the college and questioned the teachers. 
‘“ What is the prescribed quantity for gravel used in privy for 
toilet purposes?’’ He was answered: ‘‘ The equivalent in 
quantity to the size of an olive, a nut, or an egg.’’ Said he: 
‘““It would then be necessary to carry along a scale.’’ So they 
deliberated, and decided that the quantity should be a handful. 

Rabba b. R. Shilla asked of R. Hisda: ‘‘Is it permitted to 
carry up gravel to the roof (for the purpose cited above, as it is 


152 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


extra trouble, which is prohibited on the Sabbath) ?'’ He an- 
swered: ‘‘ Precious is the honor of man. For honor’s sake, 
even a direct scriptural commandment may be circumvened!”’ 

Said R. Johanan: It is forbidden to use fragments of earthen- 
ware for toilet purposes (after doing one’s necessities) on the 
Sabbath. What is the reason? Is it to say because it is dan- 
gerous, then it should be forbidden also on week days; or is it to 
say because of witchcraft, it would also be prohibited on week 
days? What then is the reason? Is it because it may remove 
the hair (from the posterior)? Would this not be an act per- 
formed without intention (and work done unintentionally, he is 
of the opinion is permissible)? R. Nathan b. Ashia answered: 
A great man made the assertion; we have to find, therefore, a 
reason for it. There is no doubt whatever that fragments of 
earthenware are prohibited to be used on week days, when some 
other things can easily be obtained; but on Sabbath, if nothing 
else happens to be on hand, nor may be bought, the fragments 
might be considered as utensils; and, lest one might be inclined 
to think that for this reason they would be permitted to be used, 
he informs us that they are not. Can witchcraft be exercised 
through the agency of fragments ? Aye; for the following 
proves it: 

R. Hisda and Rabba b. R. Hana once travelled in a ship, 
and a matron who wanted to go on the same ship asked their 
permission to sit down near them, which they refused. She 
pronounced a certain word and the ship stood still, but they in 
turn pronounced a certain word and the ship moved on. She 
then said: ‘‘ It grieves me sorely that I cannot inflict some pun- 
ishment on you, seeing that you use no fragments for toilet pur- 
poses, nor do you kill the vermin in garments, nor do you pull 
out vegetables from a bundle (but cut the bundle first).’’ (Hence 
it may be seen that fragments can be used as a means for the 
exercise of witchcraft.) 

R. Huna said to his son Rabba: Why do you not go more 
frequently to R. Hisda, who expounds the law so pointedly ? 
Answered the son: ‘‘ Of what use would it be? He never taught 
me but mere worldly knowledge, such as, for instance: Not to sit 
down to excrementize with a jerk nor to force myself too much, 
lest the intestines come out and endanger life.’”’ R. Huna then 
rejoined: ‘‘ Thou sayest “ mere worldly knowledge.’ He is in- 
terested in the life of the people, and you call it mere worldly 
knowledge. So much the more should you go to him.”’ 


TRACT SABBATH. 153 


R. Hisda and Rabhina differ as to the consequences of one 
withholding to perform his necessities. One is of the opinion 
that foul breath is the result, while the other holds that the entire 
body assumes a bad odor. The opinion of the latter is sup- 
ported by the following Boraitha: ‘‘ He who takes nourishment 
while in need of performing his necessities is compared to a stove 
in which a fire was built without previously removing the ashes, 
which is invariably the cause of a bad smell. One who feels like 
performing his necessities, but cannot do so, R. Hisda advises 
that he keep on sitting down and getting up until able. R. 
Hanan from Neherdai advises him to look for another place, but 
the rabbis say the sole remedy is to think of nothing else.’’ 

The rabbis taught: One who is about to eat a hearty meal 
should walk ten times four ells or four times ten ells, then per- 
form a (natural) necessity, and after that go in and sit down to 
the meal. 

MISHNA V.: The prescribed quantity of fragments (of 
earthenware) is the size of such as are placed between two 
boards, is the decree of R. Jehudah. R. Meir says, of a size 
sufficient to stir a fire with. R. Jossi, of a size to receive (hold) 
a quarter ofalug. Said R. Meir: Although no positive proof for 
my assertion can be found in the Scripture, still a vague refer- 
ence can be deduced from the passage [Isaiah, xxx. ig]: °° Sé 
that there cannot be found among their fragments a sherd to rake 
fire from a hearth.’’ Said R. Jossi: ‘‘ Therefrom you would 
adduce your proof? It says immediately after that [ibid., ibid.], 
‘and to draw water from a pit.’ ”’ 

GEMARA: We must assume that the prescribed quantity 
allowed by R. Jossi is larger than that allowed by R. Meir; but 
the scriptural text shows that R. Meir allows the larger; because, 
is it possible that the prophet will curse them with a larger object 
after having cursed them with a smaller? Said Abayi: R. Meir 
also means a fragment used to stir a big fire with; hence his frag- 
ment is larger than R. Jossi’s. 

“ Said R. Jossi,”” etc. Is not R. Jossi’s answer correct ? 
What could R. Meir rejoin? R. Meir might say that the prophet 
intends to convey that not only shall they not have anything 
of the least value left, but they shall not even have anything 
that is as valueless as a piece of fragment big enough to contain 
a drop of water. 


CHAPTER IX. 
RABBI AQIBA’S REGULATIONS ON DIFFERENT SUBJECTS. 


MISHNA J.: R. Aqiba said: Whence do we deduce that one 
who carries an idol is as unclean (ritually) as a woman suffering 
from menstruation? From the passage [Isaiah, xxx. 23]: ‘‘ Thou 
wilt cast them away as a filthy thing.* ‘Get thee hence!’ wilt 
thou say unto them.’’ Thus, in the same manner as a woman 
suffering from menstruation causes (ritual) uncleanness, so does 
also an idol. 

GEMARA: Rabba said: The passage mentioned in the 
Mishna should be interpreted thus: ‘‘ Estrange t+ them from thy- 
self as a stranger; Get thee hence, say unto him, but tell him not 
to come in!’’ Further Rabba said: It is unanimously conceded 
that the carrying of idols causes (ritual) uncleanness and hence 
it is compared to menstruation, but there is a dissenting opinion 
among the rabbis concerning a stone (used as a pedestal for an 
idol or upon which a woman suffering from menstruation chanced 
to sit) beneath which there were utensils. R. Aqiba holds that 
idols are regarded the same as menstruating women and the ves- 
sels beneath the stone become defiled (for the reason that the 
stone is the basis of the idol, and the former becomes part of 
the idol, and hence everything beneath it becomes defiled), but 
-the rabbis regard an idol as a reptile, z.¢., as a reptile lying upon 
.a large stone (in which case any utensils chancing to be beneath 
‘the stone do not become defiled). This decree is unanimously 
conceded. 

R. Ahadbou b. Ami asked: What about an idol smaller in 
size than an olive? R. Joseph objected to this question: What 
is the purpose of the query? Does it refer to the prohibition of 
idolatry ? Even an idol the size of a fly, like the idol of the 





* The Hebrew term used for ‘‘ filthy thing” in the passage is ‘‘ Davah,” and in 
Leviticus, xx. 18, Davah is translated, ‘‘a woman suffering from her separation (men- 
struation).” 

+ The word ‘‘ Tizrom” (cast them away) Rabba holds to be a derivation from the 
word ‘‘ Zar” (strange) and not from ‘‘ Zarah” (cast away). 


154 


TRACT SABBATH. 185 


Ekronites, which was called Zebub®* (fly) is also prohibited; for 
we are taught it is written in the passage [Judges, viii. 33]: ‘‘ And 
they made themselves Baal-berith for a god’’; by Baal-berith is 
meant the Zebub (fly) idol of Ekron, and every idolater (at that 
time) made an image of his idol in miniature in order to keep 
it constantly at hand and to be able at any time to take it out, 
embrace, and kiss it; hence there is no question as to size. 
Nay, the query of R. Ahadbou is in regard to causing defile- 
ment? Either it is regarded as a reptile and defiles, even if only 
of the size of a lentil, or it is considered as a corpse and causes 
defilement if it is the size of an olive. (A part of a corpse the 
size of an olive causes the person touching it to become defiled.) 
Answered R. Ivia, and according to others Rabba b. Ulla: 
‘“Come and hear the following Boraitha: ‘ No defilement is 
caused by idols smaller than olives, for it is written [II Kings, 
xxiii. 6]: ‘‘ And cast its powder upon the graves of the children 
of the people.’’’’’ (The adduction is) that as a corpse cannot 
cause defilement by a part less than the size of an olive, the 
same is the case with idols, which are regarded as corpses. 

MISHNA JZ: (R. Aqiba says again:) Whence the adduction 
that a ship, though a wooden vessel, is not subject to defile- 
ment? From the passage [Prov. xxx. 19]: ‘‘ The way of a ship 
is in the heart of the sea.’’ 

GEMARA: It is certain+ that R. Aqiba intends to convey 
to us that the reason the passage cited in the above Mishna 
informs us of a fact known to all is because the sense is to be 
construed thus: In the same manner as the sea is not subject 
to defilement, so also a ship can never become defiled. 

There is a Boraitha: Hananyah said: We make the adduc- 
tion from a sack (which is subject to defilement) that everything 
which can be carried after the manner of a sack, sometimes full 
and at other times empty, is subject to defilement, except a 
ship, which cannot be carried at all, full or empty. What are 
the points of difference in the two adductions (of R. Aqiba and 
Hananyah)? They are concerning a small (river) boat. One 
holds that all boats (ships) must be regarded as the sea itself 
(hence not subject to defilement), while the other is of the opinion 
that a small (river) boat must be regarded as a sack because it is 





* See II Kings, i. 2. 

+ The term ‘‘it is certain”’ (peshitah) is generally used by the Gemara in the sense 
of the question, ‘‘ Is it not self-evident?” In the above case, however, it is intended 
for an explanation of the reason for R. Aqiba’s adduction. See Rashi. 


156 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


carried to the place whence it is launched and hence is subject 
to defilement; as R. Hanina b. Aqa’bbia said: Why did the 
rabbis say that a small (river) boat is subject to defilement ? 
Because it is usually loaded in the dry dock and then carried into 
the river. 

Rabbi Johanan in the name of Rabbi said: ‘‘ One should not 
absent himself from the college even for one hour. Behold, this 
teaching (concerning a river boat) has been taught in the schools 
for many years and no one knew the reason for it until R. Hanina 
b. Aqa’bbia came and explained it.’’ 

R. Jonathan said: One should never absent himself from the 
house of learning or abstain from learning the law, even when 
at the point of death, for it is written [Num. xix. 14]: ‘‘ This 
is the law, when a man dieth in his tent ”’ ; (z.¢.) even at the point 
of death man must occupy himself with the study of the law. 
Resh Lakish, however, adduces from the same verse that one does 
not retain (in memory) the law, unless he is ready to die for it. 

MISHNA J///.: (R. Aqiba said:) Whence do we adduce that 
in a patch of ground six spans long by six spans wide five different 
kinds of seed may be planted—one kind each in each of the four 
corners and one in the centre of the patch? From the passage 
[Isaiah, Ixi. 11]: ‘‘ For as the earth bringeth forth her growth, 
and as a garden causeth what is sown therein to spring forth.” 
(We see then) it is not written ‘‘ as a garden causeth z¢s seed to 
spring forth,’’ but what ts sown therein. 

GEMARA: How is this to be understood from that passage ? 
Said R. Jehudah: The passage cited in the above Mishna is to be 
thus explained: “‘ The earth dringeth forth her growth.’”’ ‘‘ Bring- 
eth forth’’ (which is in the singular) can be counted for ‘‘ one”’ 
(kind of seed). Her ‘‘ growth ”’ (also singular) can also be counted 
for “‘ one.’’ (Now we have two.) ‘‘ What is grown therein ”’ 
(evidently plural) can be counted for two more (making four), 
and “‘ to spring forth’’ (in the singular again) can be counted as 
one, making five in all; and (as far as the six spans square are 
concerned) the rabbis are quite certain (through tradition) that 
five different kinds of seed in a patch six spans square do not 
interfere with one another. But whence do we know that the 
assurance of the rabbis can be depended upon? Answered R. 
Hyya b. Aba in the name of R. Johanan, from the passage 
[Deut. xix. 14]: ‘‘ Thou shalt not remove the landmark of thy 
neighbor, which they of old time have set,’’ which is to be ex- 
plained: ‘‘ Thou shalt not go beyond what is limited by those 


TRACT SABBATH. 157 


of old.’”’ But what have those of old limited? Answered R, 
Samuel bar Na’hmeni in the name of R. Jonathan: “‘ It is written 
(Gen. xxxvi. 20]: ‘‘ These are the sons of Seir the Chorite, who 
inhabited the land.’’» Only they inhabited the land? Did the 
rest of mankind inhabit heaven? It simply means to state that 
they made the earth inhabitable by their knowledge of agriculture 
and their experience as to what ground is adapted for the planting 
of olive trees, vines, date trees, etc. 

R. Assi said: ‘‘ The teaching of R. Agqiba in the Mishna 
refers to a patch of ground six spans square, excluding the 
corners.”’ 

Rabh said: ‘‘ The above Mishna has reference only to an 
isolated patch (or furrow) of ground, but in a furrow surrounded 
by others one can zot sow five kinds of grain, (as it is necessary 
to have a space of three spans dividing one kind from the other). 
Are there not corners, however, (to the furrow) ?’’ The school 
of Rabh explained, in the name of Rabh, that reference is made 
to furrows into the corners of which grain had been sown. 

Samuel, however, said, even in a furrow surrounded by other 
furrows. But will not the seeds interfere one with another? 
Samuel refers to furrows which are planted alternately from 
north to east and from south to west.* 

MISHNA JV.: (R. Aqiba says again): Whence the adduc- 
tion that a woman, from whom seed of copulation + escapes only 
on the third day (after lying with her husband), is unclean ? 
From the passage [Exodus, xix. 15]: ‘‘ And he said unto the 
people, Be ready against the third day. Approach not untoa 
woman.’’ Whence the adduction that a child may be bathed 
on the third day of its circumcision, even if that day fall on a 
Sabbath ? From the passage [Gen. xxxiv. 25]: ‘‘ And it came 
to pass on the third day, when they were sore.’’ Whence the 
adduction that a string of crimson wool must be tied on the head 
of the goat that was to be sent away?}{ From the passage 
[Isaiah, i. 18]: ‘‘ Though they should be red like crimson, they 
shall become (white) like wool.’” Whence do we adduce that 
anointing one’s self on the Day of Atonement is equal to drink- 
ing? Although no positive proof is apparent, still a reference 





* Rashi declares this to be the best possible explanation of Samuel’s opinion, and 
says that many others offered many different explanations, none of which are compre- 
hensible. 

+ See Leviticus, xv. 16, 17, 18, and ibid. xxii. 4. 

t See Lev, xvi. 21. 


158 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


can be adduced from the passage [Psalms, cix. 18]: ‘‘ And it 
cometh like water on his body and oil into his bones.”’ 

GEMARA: The first part of the Mishna (treating of a 
woman) is not in accordance with the opinion of R. Elazar 
b. Azaryah, who declares her (the woman) clean in that case; 
the second part of the Mishna, however, (treating of bathing on 
the third day after circumcision) is in direct accord with his own 
words (as will be seen in Chapter XIX.). Therefore some rabbis 
claim that the first part of the Mishna reads clean instead of 
unclean, z.¢., that the whole Mishna is according to the opinion 
of R. Elazar b. Azaryah, but other rabbis claim that the first 
part of the Mishna is according to the opinion of other Tanaim, 
who differ with Elazar b. Azaryah (and the word unclean is 
correct). 

‘““ And they shall be ready against the third day’’ [Ex. xix. 
11]. R. Ada b. Ahbha said: ‘‘ Moses went up (to the Mount 
Sinai) at daybreak, and descended the following break of day.’’ 
He went up at break of day, as it is written [Ex. xxxiv. 4]: 
““ And Moses rose up early in the morning and went up unto 
Mount Sinai.’’ He descended on the following daybreak, as it is 
written [ibid. xix. 24]: ‘‘ Go, get thee dowz, and then shalt thou 
come wf, thou, and Aaron with thee.’’ Wesee that the Scripture 
compares the descending to the ascending, and as the ascending 
was early in the morning, so was also the descending early in the 
morning. 

The rabbis taught: The decalogue was given to Israel on the 
sixth day of the (third) month, but R. Jossi said on the seventh 
day. 

Said Rabba: All agree that on the first day of the (third) 
month the Israelites arrived at the wilderness of Sinai. It is 
adduced from the analogy of the word “‘ this’’ ; [Ex. xix. 1] ‘‘ on 
this day they arrived at the wilderness of Sinai,’’ and [Ex. xii. 2] 
“‘ this month to be to you the first of months.’’ As in the 
latter instance the “‘ this’’ referred to the first, so does it also in 
the former; furthermore (he said), all agree that the law was 
given to Israel on a Sabbath; this is to be adduced from the 
analogy of the word ‘‘ remember’’ [Ex. xx. 8]: ‘‘ Remember 
the Sabbath day to keep it holy ’’; and [ibid. iii. 3]: ‘‘ Remember 
this day on which ye came out from Egypt.’’ As in the latter 
instance the very day of their coming out of Egypt is referred 
to, so is it also in the former instance. Where the rabbis do 
differ is what day was the first of the month. R. Jossi holds 


TRACT SABBATH. 159 


that the first of the month was set on the first of the week, and 
on that day no commandments were given, because the children 
of Israel were tired from their long journey. On the second day 
(of the week) the Lord said to them: ‘‘ Ye shall be unto me a 
kingdom of priests’’ [Ex. xix. 1]. On the third of the week 
he commanded them to keep away from the mountain. On the 
fourth to separate themselves from their wives. The rabbis, 
however, hold that the first of the month was set on the second 
of the week; that on that day nothing was commanded the 
Israelites, they being tired; on the third the cited passage [Ex. 
xix. I] was said; on the fourth day they were to keep away 
from the mountain, and on the fifth to separate themselves from 
their wives. 

An objection was raised: It is written [Ex. xix. 10]: ‘‘ Go 
unto the people, and sanctify them to-day and to-morrow.’’ Is 
this not contradictory to the statement of R. Jossi (in whose 
opinion the sanctification lasted three days)? R. Jossi may 
explain this thus: ‘‘ Moses added one day upon his own au- 
thority,’’ as we have learned in a Boraitha: ‘‘ Three things were 
done by Moses upon his own authority, and the Holy One, 
blessed be He, agreed thereto. They are: He added one day 
(to the period of sanctification), he separated himself from a 
woman, and he broke the tablets into pieces.”’ “‘ He added one 
day upon his own authority.’’ What was his object ? The Lord 
said unto him: ‘‘ To-day and to-morrow,’’ and he construed the 
words as follows: ‘‘ To-day must be equal (in duration) to to- 
morrow; as to-morrow includes the night, so must to-day; the 
night, however, having already passed, another day must be added 
in order to make up for the lost night.’’ Whence do we know 
that the Lord agreed to this? Because the Shekhina did not 
appear on Mount Sinai until the Sabbath morn. What was the 
object of Moses in separating himself from awoman? He applied 
the order given the Israelites (to separate themselves from their 
wives) to himself in a so much larger degree (z.¢., the order having 
been issued to the Israelites for the reason that they would 
shortly hear the word of the Lord, it would be so much more 
proper for him, who frequently was spoken to by the Lord, to 
separate himself entirely from a woman). And whence do we 
know that the Lord agreed to this also? It is written [Deut. 
v. 27 and 28]: ‘‘ Go, say to them, Return you unto your tents. 
But as for thee, remain thou here by me.’’ And what was his 
object in breaking the tablets ? He thought: ‘* As concerning the 


160 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Passover sacrifice, which is only one of the six hundred and thir- 
teen commandments, it is written [Ex. xii. 43]: ‘ No stranger 
shall eat thereof,’ how can I give the tablets, which contain all 
the commandments, to the children of Israel, who are now all 
renegades ?’’ And whence do we know that the Holy One, 
blessed be He, agreed even to this? It is written [Ex. xxxiv. 
1]: ‘‘ And the Lord said unto Moses, Hew thyself two tables 
of stone like unto the first; and I will write upon these tables 
the words which were on the first tables which thou didst break.’’ 
Said Resh Lakish: ‘‘‘ Which thou didst break’ really means, 
‘which thou didst break rightfully.’ ”’ 

Another objection was raised: It is written [Ex. xix. 11]: 
‘* And they shall be ready against the third day.’’ According 
to R. Jossi it should be the fourth day. This is no objection! 
as it is said above that Moses added another day upon his own 
authority. Come and hear another objection: ‘‘ The sixth 
means the sixth of the week and of the month.’’ Is this not 
contradictory to the statement of the rabbis, who say: “‘ The 
first of the month was the second day of the week ?’’ Yea, (it 
may be that) this Boraitha holds to the opinion of R. Jossi. 

Come and hear: On the fourteenth day of the month of 
Nissan, during which (month) the Israelites went out of Egypt, 
they killed the Passover sacrifice and on the fifteenth day they 
went out. On the night before that the first-born of the Egyp- 
tians were beaten. That day (the fifteenth) was the fifth of the 
week. Now, if the fifteenth of Nissan was the fifth of the week, 
we must certainly say that the first of the next month (lar) was 
Sabbath and the first day of the following month (Sivan) was the 
first day of the week. Is this not contradictory to the statement 
of the rabbis, that the first day of the month was the second day 
of the week? The rabbis might have assumed that the month of 
Iar was an intercalary month. 

Said R. Habibi of "Huzunah to R. Ashi: Come and hear: 
It is written [Ex. xl. 17]: ‘‘ And it came to pass in the first 
month in the second year, on the first of the month, that the 
tabernacle was reared up,’’ and a Boraitha teaches that this day 
was crowned tenfold, viz.: ‘‘ That day was the first of the six 
days of the creation; the first of the days on which the first 
prince presented his offering before the altar; the first of the 
days on which the priests (Aaron and sons) did their work in 
the sanctuary; the first day on which the children of Israel 
brought their sacrifices into the tabernacle; the first of the days 


TRACT SABBATH. 161 


on which the heavenly fire descended upon the altar; the first of 
the days on which the priests were permitted to eat the sacrifices 
in the tabernacle; the first of the days on which the Shekhina 
appeared in the tabernacle; the first day on which Aaron the 
High Priest blessed the Israelites in the tabernacle; the first 
of the days on which sacrifices were no more permitted to be 
brought on the high places outside of the tabernacle, and the 
first day of the first of the months.’’ Now, if the first day of 
this year was the first day of the week, we must say the first of 
Nissan of the preceding year fell on the fourth day of the week, 
because we have learned in another Boraitha: ‘‘ Anonymous 
teachers say that there can be not more than four days’ differ- 
ence between one New Year’s day and another.’’ Ifaleap year 
intervened, then there may be a difference of five days. Is this 
not contradictory to the opinion of both the rabbis and R. Jossi ? 
According to R. Jossi there were seven short months (of twenty- 
nine days) in that year, but according to the rabbis there were 
eight such months, (consequently the difference from the last 
year was only in two days,) as this year was an extraordinary 
one. (And the first day of the month Iar of the last year was 
on Friday.) 

Another objection was raised: We have learned in the Tract 
Seder Aulim that on the fourteenth day of the month of Nissan, 
during which (month) the Israelites went out of Egypt, they 
killed the Passover sacrifice; on the fifteenth they went out, and 
that day was Friday. Now, if the first of the month of Nissan 
of that year was Friday, we must say that the first day of the 
following (Iar) month was on the first day of the week and 
the first of the succeeding month (Sivan) was on Monday. Is 
this not contradictory with R. Jossi? R. Jossi will then say 
that this Boraitha is in accordance with the opinion of the 
rabbis. 

Come and hear another objection: R. Jossi says: ‘‘ On the 
second day Moses went up on the Mount Sinai and came back. 
The same he did on the third day, but on the fourth day, when 
he came back, he remained.’” Came back and remained ? 
Whence did he come back—it does not say that he went up at 
all? Say, then, on the fourth day he went up, came back, and 
remained. On the fifth he built an altar and offered a sacrifice. 
On the sixth he had notime. Shall we assume that he had no 
time because on that day the Israelites received the Torah ? 
(If we say that the second refers to the second day of the week, 

VOL, I:—it 


162 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


it must be a fact that the Torah was given on Friday, and would 
this not be a contradiction to his [R. Jossi’s] own opinion ?) 
Nay; he had no time because the Sabbath was at hand. 

A Galilean lectured in the presence of R. Hisda: Praised be 
the merciful God, who gave a triple law (the Pentateuch, Proph- 
ets, and Hagiographa) to a triple people (Kahanites, Levites, 
and Israelites) through a man who was the third child of his 
parents (Miriam, Aaron, and Moses), on the third day of sancti- 
fication and in the third month. We see from this that the 
Galilean held in accordance with the teachings of the rabbis. 

It is written [Ex. xix. 17]: ‘‘ And they placed themselves at 
the foot of the mount.’’ Said R. Abhdimi b. Hama b. Hassa: 
‘‘It appears from this passage that the Holy One, blessed be 
He, inclined the mountain toward the children of Israel and gave 
them the choice of either accepting the Torah or being buried 
right under the mountain.’’ Said R. Aha b. Jacob: ‘‘ This 
would accord us the right to protest against any punishment 
inflicted upon us for violating the law. (For we were compelled 
to accept it.)’’ Said Rabha: Although (at that time they were 
compelled to accept it), at the time of Ahasuerus (King of Persia) 
they accepted it voluntarily. For it is written [Esther, ix. 27]: 
‘“The Jews confirmed it as a duty, and took upon themselves 
and upon their seed.’’ And it is to be explained: ‘‘ They took 
upon themselves voluntarily what at one time they were com- 
pelled to accept.’” R. Simai lectured: ‘‘ At that time, when 
Israel answered to the information of Moses, ‘ We will do and 
we will obey,’ six hundred thousand angels had furnished to 
every one of Israel two crowns: one for the answer‘ We will 
do,’ and one for the answer ‘ We will obey.’ Thereafter when 
Israel sinned (with the Golden Calf) twelve hundred thousand 
destroying angels descended and took them away; as it is written 
[Exodus, xxxiii. 6]: ‘ The children of Israel then stripped them- 
selves of their ornaments (they wore) from (the time they were 
at) Mount Horeb.’”’ Said R. Hami b. R. Hanina: “ For in the 
same passage it may be deduced that in the same place where 
they were furnished they were taken away from them.’’ Said 
R. Johanan: All of them were given as a reward to Moses, as 
immediately after the verse cited it is written: ‘‘ And Moses took 
the tent,’’ etc. Said Resh Lakish: We hope, however, that the 
Holy One, blessed be He, will return them to us, as it is written 
[Isaiah, xxxv. 10]: ‘‘ And the ransomed of the Lord shall return, 
and come to Zion with song, with everlasting joy upon their 


TRACT SABBATH. 163 


head.’’ The expression everlasting means that it was already 
upon their heads at the time of reception of the Torah. 

R. Elazar said: At the time the Israelites said ‘‘ We will do’”’ 
and afterward ‘‘ We will obey’’ a heavenly voice (Bath-kol) was 
heard, which said unto them: ‘‘ Who unfolded unto my children 
this mystery known only to the angels?’’ For it is written 
[Psalms, ciii. 20]: ‘‘ Bless the Lord, ye his angels, mighty in 
strength, that execute his word, hearkening unto the voice of his 
word,’’ and from this we see that only angels can execute first 
and then obey. 

A Sadducee once noticed Rabha studying and observed that 
he in his absent-mindedness held his (Rabha’s) finger underneath 
his knee and pressed it so hard that blood spurted from the 
finger. Said the Sadducee* to him: ‘‘ Impetuous people, 
whose mouths precede your ears! Ye are still of the same 
vehemence! Ye must first hear the Torah before you accept 
it and not accept without knowing its prescriptions!’’ An- 
swered Rabha: We who are upright men trusted Him, as it is 
said of us [Proverbs, xi. 3]: ‘* The integrity of the upright guid- 
eth them,’’ but to those men who are continually fault-finding 
the latter part of the same verse [ibid., ibid. ] can be applied, viz.: 
‘* But the cunning of the treacherous destroyeth them.”’ 

R. Samuel b. Na’hmeni in the name of R. Jonathan said: 
It is written [Solomon’s Song, iv. 9]: ‘ Thou hast ravished my 
heart, O my sister, (my) bride! thou hast ravished my heart with 
one of thy eyes.’’ This means: When thou didst but receive 
the Torah, it was with one of thy eyes. When thou wilt obey 
it, it will be with both of thy eyes. 

R. Johanan said: It is written [Psalms, Ixviii. 12]: ‘‘ The 
Lord gave (happy) tidings; they are published by female messen- 
gers, a numerous host.’’ This implies that every word emanat- 
ing from the mighty God was heralded in seventy languages. 
The school of R. Ishmael, however, (adduced the same from 
another passage): It is written [Jeremiah, xxiii. 29]: ‘‘ Is not 
thus my word like the fire ? saith the Lord, and like a hammer 
that shivereth the rock ?’’ As the hammer that strikes emits a 
multitude of sparks, so is every word emanating from the Holy 
One, blessed be He, heralded in seventy different languages. 





* It is not meant a real Sadducee, as they did not yet exist in Rabha’s time, 
but one of the other sects which opposed the oral law; and the name may be here a 
correction of the censor instead of Aum, as there are many such corrections of the 
censor. It may also be another sect for which the name Sadducee was borrowed. 


164 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


R. Hananel b. Papa said: It is written [ Proverbs, viii. 6]: 
‘“ Hear! for of noble things will I speak.’’ Why are the words 
of the Torah compared to a noble? To inform us that inas- 
much as a noble has in his power the disposal over life and death, 
so have also the words of the Torah. This is similar to what 
Rabha said: To those who walk in the right ways of the law, it 
is an elixir of life, but to those who pursue not the right way, 
it is the poison of death. 

R. Jehoshua b. Levi said: It is written [Solomon’s Song, i. 
12]: ‘‘ A bundle of myrrh is my friend unto me, that resteth on 
my bosom.’’ Said the Congregation of Israel: ‘‘ Lord of the 
Universe! Although my friend chastiseth * me, still he resteth 
on my bosom!”’ 

The same rabbi said: ‘‘ It is written [Solomon’s Song, v. 13]: 
““ His cheeks are as a bed of spices, as turrets of sweet perfumes.”’ 
Every word emanating from the Holy One, blessed be He, fills 
the whole world with the aroma of spices. If the world was 
filled with the aroma arising from the first word, where could 
the second word go? The Holy One, blessed be He, sent forth 
a wind from His store, which cleared off the aroma of each 
word, as it is written [ibid.]: ‘‘ His lips like lilies, dropping with 
fluid myrrh.’’ Do not read Shoshanim (lilies) but Sheshonim 
(learned men). The same said again that from each word which 
came from the Holy One, blessed be He, the soul of Israel was 
going out, as it is written [ibid., ibid. 6]: ‘‘ My soul had failed 
me while he was speaking.’’ But the Holy One, blessed be He, 
has let down the dew with which He will in the future make the 
resurrection and bring them to life; as it is written [ Psalms, 
Ixviii. 10]: ‘‘ Rain of beneficence didst thou pour down, O 
God!”’ 

He also said: When Moses ascended into Heaven, said the 
angels before the Holy One, blessed be He, ‘‘ Lord of the Uni- 
verse! What has one born of a woman to do among us ?”’ 

The Lord answered: ‘‘ He came to receive the Torah.”’ 
Said the angels again: ‘‘ Wouldst Thou give a precious thing 
that Thou hast preserved since nine hundred and seventy-four 
generations before the creation of the world to a being of flesh 
and blood? (It is written [Psalms, viii. 5]): What is the mortal, 
that thou rememberest him? and the son of man, that thou 
thinkest of him?’’ Said the Holy One, blessed be He, unto 





* The Hebrew term for bundle is Tzror, and for oppressor is Tzoror; hence R. 
Johanan interprets Tzror as if it were Tzoror. 


TRACT SABBATH. 165 


Moses: ‘‘ Give thou them an answer!’’ Answered Moses before 
the Lord: ‘‘ Lord of the Universe! What is written in the law, 
which Thou gavest unto me ?”’ [Ex. xx. 2]. ‘‘ lam the Lord, 


thy God, who have brought thee out of the land of Egypt.’’ 
Moses then said to the angels: Were ye in Egypt? Have ye 
served Pharaoh? Of what use can the Torah be unto you? 
Further, what is written in the Torah [ibid. 3]: ‘‘ Thou shalt 
have no other gods before me.’’ Are ye among the nations that 
worship idols ? And furthermore, what is written in the Torah ? 
[ibid. 8]: ‘‘ Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy.”’ Do 
ye any labor on the week-days ? [Ibid. 7]: ‘‘ Thou shalt not take 
the name of the Lord thy God in vain.’” Are ye merchants, that 
ye must swear ? [Ibid. 13]: ‘‘ Honor thy father and thy mother. ”’ 
Have ye fathers and mothers to honor? [Ibid. 12]: ‘‘ Thou shalt 
not kill,’’ etc. Is there any jealousy among you? Have ye any 
evil intent ? 

Then the angels confessed and praised the Holy One, blessed 
be He, as it is written [Psalms, viii. 10]: “‘ O Eternal One, our 
Lord, how excellent is thy name on all the earth!’’ but the 
ending of the verse [ibid. 2], ‘‘ Thou who hast set thy majesty 
above the heavens,”’ is not cited in this verse. Then every one 
of the angels befriended Moses and each of them disclosed some 
mystery to him, as it is written [Psalms, Ixviii. 19]: “‘ Thou didst 
ascend on high, lead away captives, receive gifts among men,”’ 
which means that because at first the angels called Moses one 
born of a woman (man), they at the close gave him gifts, and 
even the Angel of Death disclosed a mystery to him, as it is 
written [Num. xvii. 12 and 13]: ‘‘ And he put on the incense, 
and made an atonement for the people. And he stood between 
the dead and the living.’’ Now if the Angel of Death had not 
disclosed unto Moses this mystery, how could he have imparted 
it to Aaron? 

Said R. Jehoshua b. Levi again: When Moses descended 
from Heaven, Satan came before the Holy One, blessed be He, 
and said: ‘‘ Lord of the universe! Where is the Torah ?’’ 
And the Lord answered: ‘‘ I have given it tothe earth.’” Satan 
descended to earth and said to it: ‘‘ Where is the Torah ?’”’ 
And the earth answered [Job, xxviii. 23]: ‘‘ God (alone) under- 
standeth her way, and he knoweth her place.’’ Satan then went 
to the sea, and the sea said: ‘‘ She is not with me.’’ He then 
went to the deep, and the deep answered: ‘‘ Not in me is she,”’ 
as it is written [ibid. 14]: ‘‘ The deep saith, Not in me is she; 


166 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


and the sea saith, She is not with me.’’ [Ibid. 22]: ‘‘ Perdition 
and death say: With our ears have we heard a report of her.”’ 
Satan then ascended before the Holy One, blessed be He, and 
said: ‘‘ Lord of the Universe! I have looked for the Torah on 
the whole earth and could not find it.’’ Then said the Lord 
unto him: ‘‘ Go unto the son of Amram.’’ And Satan went to 
Moses and said to him: ‘‘ Where is the Torah which the Holy 
One, blessed be He, gave unto thee ?’’ And Moses answered : 
‘Who am I, that the Holy One, blessed be He, should give me 
the Torah ?’’ Said the Lord unto Moses: ‘‘ Moses, art thou 
a liar ?’’ Said Moses before the Lord: ‘‘ Lord of the Universe! 
Shall I claim that Thou hast given unto me a precious thing 
which Thou didst fondle every day?’’ Said the Holy One, 
blessed be He, unto Moses: ‘‘ Because thou hast humbled thy- 
self, the Torah shall bear thy name,”’ as it is written [Malachi, 
ili. 22]: ‘‘ Remember ye the law of Moses my servant.” 

The same rabbi said again: When Moses ascended unto 
Heaven (and he was silent), the Lord said unto him: ‘‘ Moses, 
is there no peace in thy city ?’’ And Moses answered: “‘ Is it 
then proper that a slave should salute his Master?’’ Said the 
Lord: ‘* Still thou shouldst have wished me well.’’ Then said 
Moses before the Lord [Numbers, xiv. 17]: ‘‘ And now, I beseech 
thee, let the greatness of the power of the Lord be made mani- 
fest as thou hast spoken.”’ 

“A string of crimson wool,”’ etc. Did not the passage say 
(Kashanim) * “‘ like years’’ and not like crimson, for were it like 
crimson it would read Kashani? Said R. Itz’hak: ‘‘ The pas- 
sage is thus to be explained: The Lord said unto Israel: If your 
sins all lie before me as the years that have passed since the 
creation, they shall nevertheless become white as snow.”’ 

Rabha lectured: It is written [Isaiah, i. 18]: ‘‘ Go now,+ and 
let us reason together, said the Lord.’’ It should not read ‘‘ go 
now ’’ but ‘‘ come now,”’ and not “‘ saith the Lord ’”’ but ‘‘ said 
the Lord.’’ The passage should be explained: In the future the 
Lord will say unto Israel: Go to your ancestors and they shall 
rebuke you; and Israel will say before the Lord: Lord of the 





* Shanah in Hebrew means year (Shanim, plural, years). Shany means crimson, 
but the latter is used only once (Prov. xxxi. 21) in plural; the former, however, is 
generally used in plural, as, for many years. As here it is in plural (Kashanim) he 
declares it /ike years. 

¢In Isaac Leeser’s translation of the Bible, which we use in Biblical citations, 
this passage is rendered ‘‘ Come now,” but the literal translation is ‘‘Go now.” 


TRACT SABBATH. 167 


Universe, to whom shall we go? Shall we go to Abraham, to 
whom Thou hast said: “‘ Know of a surety that thy seed shall 
be a stranger in a land which is not theirs, and they will make 
them serve,’’ and he did not pray for us? Shall we go to Isaac, 
who, when blessing Esau, said [Gen. xxvii. 40]: ‘‘ And it shall 
come to pass that when thou shalt have the dominion thou canst 
break his yoke from off thy neck,’’ and he also did not pray for 
us? Shall we go to Jacob, to whom Thou didst say [Gen. xlvi. 
4]: ‘‘ I will go down with thee into Egypt,’’ and not even he 
prayed for us? To whom shall we go now? Then the Lord 
will say unto Israel: ‘‘ Inasmuch as ye have attached yourselves 
to me, though your sins should be as scarlet, they shall become 
white as snow.”’ 

Said R. Samuel b. Na’hmeni in the name of R. Jonathan: 
It is written [Isaiah, lxiii. 16]: ‘‘ For Thou art our Father; for 
Abraham knoweth nothing of us, and Israel recognizeth us not; 
Thou, O Lord, art our Father, our Redeemer from everlasting 
is thy name.”’ In the future the Holy One, blessed be He, will 
say to Abraham: ‘‘ Thy children have sinned before me,’’ and 
Abraham will answer: ‘‘ Let them be wiped off (the face of the 
earth) for the sake of the holiness of Thy name.’’ The Holy 
One, blessed be He, will then say: ‘‘ I shall tell this to Jacob, 
who had trouble in rearing his own children; perhaps he will pay 
for the present generation.’’ The Lord said to Jacob: ‘‘ Thy 
children have sinned before me,’’ and Jacob gave the same reply 
as Abraham. Then said the Lord: ‘‘ Not with the aged can 
feeling be found, nor with the young wise counsel.’’ The Lord 
then said to Isaac: ‘‘ Thy children have sinned before me.”’ 
Then said Isaac before the Lord: ‘‘ Creator of the universe! Thou 
sayest my children, are they not Thine ? When they answered 
before Thee, ‘ We will do,’ and (then) ‘ obey,’ Thou calledst 
them ‘ My son, my first-born,’ and now they are my children 
and not Thine! And furthermore, how long atime have they 
sinned before Thee? Let us see; what is the duration of a 
man’s life? Only seventy years. Take off the twenty years 
that Thou dost not punish for sin and only fifty remain. Take 
off the nights and only twenty-five full-years remain. Deduct 
again twelve years and six months spent in praying, eating, and 
in the performance of other necessities, only twelve and one-half 
years remain. If Thou wilt bear the whole it is well, but if not 
let me bear half and Thou the other half. If Thou wilt say that 
I must bear the whole, did I not sacrifice myself for Thee ?’’ 


168 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Then Israel said (unto Isaac): ‘‘ For thou (alone) art our father.’’ 
Said Isaac unto them: ‘‘ Instead of praising me, praise ye the 
Holy One, blessed be He,”’ and he pointed them on high with 
his finger. ‘‘There is the Lord!’’ Then they lifted up their 
eyes unto Heaven and said: Thou, O Lord, art our Father, our 
Redeemer from everlasting is Thy name. 

R. Hyya b. Aba said in the name of R. Johanan: “* Jacob 
deserved to go down into Egypt in iron shackles (because that 
is the usual way of going into exile), but his merits precluded 
such a thing, as it is written: ‘‘ With human cords I ever drew 
them forward, with leading-strings of love; and I was to them 
as those that lift off the yoke from their jaws, and I held out 
unto them food ’’ [Hosea, xi. 4]. 

MISHNA V.: The prescribed quantity for wood is as much 
as suffices to cook an (easily boiled) egg; for spices as much as 
would suffice to spice such an egg—and the different spices are 
counted together; nut-shells, pomegranate peel, isatis, and 
cochineal, as much as suffices to dye the edge of a small piece 
of cloth; alum, native carbonate of soda, Cimolia chalk, vege- 
table soap, as much as suffices to wash the edge of a small piece 
of cloth. R. Jehudah says as much as will suffice to remove a 
blood stain. 

GEMARA: Have we not learned this already ? Reeds, split, 
as much as will suffice to cook an egg? In that case we must 
assume that the reeds could not be used for any other purpose, 
but wood which can be put to a multitude of uses, as, for instance, 
to make the handle for a key, (should be limited to a smaller 
quantity). He comes to teach us that the same quantity also 
applies in this case. 

‘« Nut-shells,”’ etc. Is this not a contradiction to what we 
have learned elsewhere, that dyes may not be carried in quan- 
tities sufficient to exhibit a sample of the color in the market? 
Said R. Na’hman in the name of Rabba b. Abuhu: “ Because 
one will not take the trouble to make dye sufficient only for a 
sample.’’ 

‘* Native carbonate,’ etc. A Boraitha in addition to this 
states, that coming from Alexandria but not from Anphantrin. 

‘‘ Vegetable soap’’ (Ashleg). Said Samuel: ‘‘ I have inquired 
of a number of seafaring men and they have told me that the 
name for it is Ashalgoh; it is found in the shells of a pearl-oyster 
and it is extracted with iron needles.”’ 

MISHNA I/.: The prescribed quantity for (aromatic) pepper 


9” 





TRACT SABBATH. 169 


(pimento) is the least possible amount; for tar it is the same; 
for different kinds of spices and metals it is also the same; for 
the stone and the earth of the altar, torn pieces of the scroll of 
laws or its cover, it is also the same, because such things are 
generally preserved bymen. R. Jehudah said: The same quan- 
tity applies to everything pertaining to the worship of idols, 
because it is written [ Deut. xiii. 18]: *‘ And there shall not cleave 
to thy hand aught of the devoted things.”’ 

GEMARA: To what use can such a small quantity of pepper 
be put? It may be used by one whose breath is foul. 

‘“ For tar.’’ For what purpose can tar in so small a quantity 
be used? It may be used by one who has the sickness Tzilcha- 
thah (an illness where only one-half of the head aches). 

“ For different kinds of spices.’ The rabbis taught: The 
prescribed quantity both for aromatic spices as well as for ill- 
smelling oils is the same (least possible quantity); for purple dye 
also the same, and for roses only one rosebud. 

““ And metats.’’ Of what use are they? We have learned, 
R. Simon b. Elazar said: They can be used to make a goad. 

“ The torn pieces of the scroll of laws.’’ Said R. Jehudah: 
Book-worms, silk-worms, vine-worms, date-worms, and pome- 
granate-worms are all dangerous to human life. There was a 
disciple sitting before R. Johanan eating dates, and the disciple 
said to him: ‘‘ Rabbi, there are thorns in the dates.’’ Said the 
rabbi: ‘‘ The date-worm (Pah) has killed this man.’’ 

MISHNA VIZ: One who carries the chest of a spice dealer 
is liable for one sin-offering only, although there may be many 
spices in the chest. The prescribed quantity for garden seeds 
is the equivalent in size to a dried fig. R. Jehudah b. Bathyra 
said : Five different seeds. The prescribed quantity for cucumber 
seeds are two, for pumpkin seeds the same, for Egyptian beans 
the same; a living locust (which may be eaten), be it ever so 
small, must not be carried, but dead locusts may be carried in 
quantities less than a dried fig. The prescribed quantity for 
vineyard birds * living or dead is the smallest possible quantity, 
because they were preserved for medicinal purposes. R. Jehudah 
said: One must not carry out a living locust, (which must not be 
eaten), be it ever so small, because such locusts were kept as 
playthings for small children. 

GEMARA: “‘ Cucumber seeds.’” The rabbis taught: The 





* None of the commentators can explain what kind of birds is meant, 


170 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


prescribed quantity for seeds used for planting is two, but for 
seeds used for food it is the equivalent of a pig’s mouthful. 
' How much is a pig’s mouthful? The seeds of one cucumber. 
For cucumber seeds used as fuel the prescrbed quantity is as 
much as will suffice to cook an egg; for cucumber seeds used 
as counters (for figures) only two. Anonymous teachers say 
five. 

The rabbis taught: One who carries two hairs from the tail 
of a horse or a cow is culpable, because the hairs are always 
preserved for making nets. The prescribed quantity for hog 
pristles is only one; for willows (used for wickerwork) two; for 
tree-bark * one strip. 

‘R. Fehudah says: A locust (which must not be eaten),’’ etc. 
Why did not the first Tana of the Mishna mention this? Because 
in his opinion it is forbidden to carry it even on week-days, lest 
one eat it. If such is the case, why should an eatable locust be 
allowed to be carried ? Did not R. Kahana stand before Rabh 
and a small locust lighted on his lips: Rabh said to him. (R. 
Kahana), Take it away, lest people say that thou hast eaten it 
and thou hast violated the commandment [Leviticus, xi. 43]: 
‘Ve shall not make yourselves abominable with any creeping 
thing that creepeth’’? Nay; there was no fear that the locust 
would be eaten alive, but they apprehended lest it die and then 
be eaten. (An eatable locust would not matter, but an uneat- 
able locust would be a violation of the law.) If that is the case, 
why does R. Jehudah permit this? R. Jehudah holds that there 
is no fear of the locust being eaten when dead, as the child will 
mourn its death. 





_* Rashi declares in his commentary that he does not know what it is nor for what 
purpose it is used, See Aruch, 


CHAPTER Xx. 


FURTHER REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE PRESCRIBED QUANTITY 
OF THINGS TO BE STORED. 


MISHNA J/.: One who had stored anything for planting, 
sampling, or medicinal purposes (before the Sabbath) and carried 
some of it out (into public ground) on the Sabbath, be it ever 
so small a quantity, is liable for a sin-offering. Any one else, 
however, is culpable only then if (he carried out) the prescribed 
quantity. Even the one who had stored is culpable only for the 
prescribed quantity, if he brought the thing carried out by him 
back (to private ground). 

GEMARA: For what purpose is it said in the Mishna, ‘‘ One 
who stored anything’’? Would it not be sufficient to say, 
‘“One who carried out things intended for planting, sampling, 
or medicinal purposes, be the quantity ever so small, is cul- 
pable’’? Said Abayi: The Mishna treats of the case of a man 
who, after storing the thing, forgot for what purpose he had 
stored it, and then carried it out into the street for any purpose 
whatever. Lest one say that the original intention (to store it) 
is abolished, and now the thing carried out has for him only the 
same value as for others, and he would be culpable only for carry- 
ing out the regularly prescribed quantity, it comes to teach us 
that one who commits a deed executes his original intention. 

R. Jehudah said in the name of Samuel: R. Meir declares 
one who carried out only a single wheat grain, intended for 
sowing, culpable. Is this not self-evident ? The Mishna taught: 
‘‘ Be it ever so small.’’ One might presume that the term “‘ be 
it ever so small’’ denotes something smaller than a dried fig but 
not smaller than an olive. R. Meir therefore informs us (that 
it refers even to one wheat grain). R. Itz’hak, the son of R. 
Jehudah, opposed this: ‘‘ (We see that) the Mishna declares one 
culpable for an act originally intended to be performed, but now, 
supposing a man intended to carry out his entire household at 
once; is he then not culpable until he had accomplished the 
entire task, even if he had carried out part of it?’’ The answer 


171 


172 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


was: If a man has an absurd intention it is abolished by the law, 
and he is culpable for carrying out the prescribed quantity. 

‘“* Any one else, however,’’ etc. Our Mishna is not in accord- 
ance with that of R. Simeon b. Elazar (on page 145). 

Rabha in the name of R. Na’hman said: ‘‘ If one carried out 
a thing the size of a dried fig with the intention of eating it, but 
changed his mind in the meantime and then intended to sow it, 
or, on the contrary, first intended to sow it and then to eat it, he 
is culpable. Is this not self-evident ? The prescribed quantity 
for both eating and sowing was carried. Lest one say that the 
removing and the depositing of a thing must be done with the 
very same intention in order to make one culpable, which is not 
so in this case, he comes to teach us that /e zs culpable. 

““ If he brought the thing,’ etc. Is this not self-evident ? (for 
he did not sow it, we then see that his original intention is abol- 
ished). Said Abayi: ‘‘ The Mishna speaks of a case where the 
man took the thing brought from his house, and threw it into 
the place where his full supply was kept, and the place where he 
threw it remained conspicuous. Lest one say, if the place is 
conspicuous, his original intention is not yet abolished, because 
he took the same thing again, it comes to teach us that the 
throwing of the thing among his other supplies annulled his 
original intention. 

MISHNA J/.: If one intended to carry out victuals and 
deposited them on the doorstep, whether he afterward carried 
them out (into the street) himself, or this was done by some one 
else, he is not culpable, because he did not accomplish the deed 
at one time. If one deposited a basket of fruit on the outside 
doorstep, even if the bulk of the fruit was on the outside (in 
the street), he is not culpable, unless he carried out the entire 
basket (into the street). 

GEMARA: What kind of a doorstep does the Mishna have 
reference to? Should we assume that the doorstep was public 
ground, how can the man be not culpable? He carried out 
from private into public ground. Should we assume that the 
doorstep was private ground, why does the Mishna teach that 
if ke carried it out (into the street), or any one else, he is not 
culpable ? It is again a case of carrying out from private into 
public ground? We must therefore assume that the doorstep 
was unclaimed ground, and it comes to teach us that only when 
the victuals were deposited on the unclaimed ground the man 
is not culpable, but if they had been carried out from private 


TRACT SABBATH. 173 


into public ground, even by way of unclaimed ground, he is 
culpable. And the Mishna does not agree with the opinion 
of Ben Azai, of the following Boraitha: ‘‘ One who carries out 
from his store into the market by way of the alley is culpable, 
but Ben Azai says he is not.’’ 

‘Tf one deposited a basket of fruit,” etc. Said Hyzkiyah: 
The case in question treats only of a basket filled with cucumbers 
and beets, but if full of mustard seeds he is culpable. From 
this we see that Hyzkiyah considers a vessel no support * (z.¢., 
the cucumbers are encircled by the basket and need no support), 
but the mustard seeds, which are heaped up, are outside of the 
basket proper and not supported by it; therefore, when the basket 
with mustard seeds is carried outside, part of the mustard seeds 
are already on the outside and the carrier is culpable. R. 
Johanan, however, says, even if the basket contained mustard 
seeds, he is also not culpable. Thence we see that R. Johanan 
does consider a vessel a support. Said R. Zera: ‘‘ How is it 
with the Mishna? It is neither of the opinion of Hyzkiyah nor 
of R. Johanan.’’ Hyzkiyah may explain it in accordance with 
his theory and R. Johanan with Azs own. Hyzkiyah explains the 
Mishna, which said ‘‘ unless he carries out the entire basket.’’ 
This is the case if the basket is filled with cucumbers and beets, 
but if filled with mustard seeds it is equal to putting out the 
entire basket into the street, and he is culpable, but R. Johanan 
explained the Mishna thus: Although the bulk of the fruit is 
on the outside, or even if all the fruit were on the outside, the 
man would not be culpable unless the entire basket was put on 
the outside. So also said Rabha: The Mishna treats only of a 
basket filled with cucumbers and beets, but if filled with mustard 
seeds the man is culpable. Whence we see that he does not 
consider a vessel a support. Abayi, however, said: Even if the 
basket contained mustard seeds, the man is also not culpable. 
Whence we see that he does consider a vessel a support. Shall 
we say that Abayi adopted the system of Rabha and Rabha of 
Abayi, or Abayi contradicts himself and Rabha does the same ? 
As it was taught: One who carried out fruit into public ground, 
Abayi said, is culpable only if he carried it out with his hand 
(although the body remained in public ground), but if in a vessel 
he is not culpable. (Why? Because Abayi does not consider 
the body a support to the hand, in spite of the fact that the 





* The Talmudical term for ‘‘ support ” is ‘‘ Agad,” literally ‘* bind.” In the above 
the sense demands its rendition by ‘‘.support.” 


174 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


hand is attached to the body, but if he carried out the fruit in a 
vessel and part of the vessel still remained in private ground, 
he is not culpable.) And Rabha says, on the contrary: If he 
carried the fruit out in his hand he is not culpable (because 
he considers the body a support and the hand is part of the 
body), but if he carried it out in a vessel he is culpable (be- 
cause, although the vessel is still in private ground, some of 
the fruit is in public ground). The answer is: Reverse the 
case. (Say Abayi’s statement should be Rabha’s and Rabha’s 
Abayi’s). 

MISHNA /J//.: One who carries out anything in the right 
or in the left hand or in his bosom or on his shoulder is culpable, 
as so was the manner in which the sons of Kehath carried (their 
burdens).* But one who carries out a thing on the back of his 
hand or with his foot, with his mouth, with his elbow, with 
his ear, with his hair, with his waist bag, the opening of which 
is at the bottom, or between his belt and his shirt, with the edge 
of his shirt, with his shoe or sandal, is not culpable, because he 
carries it in an unusual manner. 

GEMARA: R. Elazar said: ‘‘ One who carries out a burden 
ten spans above the ground [not on his shoulder, but in the air] 
is culpable, because in this manner the sons of Kehath carried 
their burdens.’’ Whence do we know that the sons of Kehath 
carried their burdens in this way? It is written [Numb. iii. 26]: 
‘“ Which is by the tabernacle and by the altar round about.”’ 
Hence he compares the tabernacle to the altar. As the taber- 
nacle was ten ells, so was also the altar ten ells; and whence do 
we know that the tabernacle itself was ten ells? Because it is 
written [Ex. xxvi. 16]: ‘‘ Ten ells shall be the length of the 
boards.’’ Or we may say that we know that the sons of Kehath 
carried their burdens in this manner from the ark, as the Master 
said: The ark was nine spans high, and with the cover, which 
was one span higher, it was ten. Experience is to the effect 
that when a burden was carried on the shoulders by means of 
poles, one-third of the burden was above the poles and two- 
thirds below; then as the ark was ten spans high and one-third 
of it was carried above the shoulders, it was certainly more than 
ten spans above the ground. 

But let it be inferred from Moses himself, of whom it is said 
elsewhere that he was very tall. With Moses the case is differ- 





* Numb. iv. 


TRACT SABBATH. 175 


ent; as the Master said elsewhere that the Shekhina does not rest 
upon a man unless he is a scholar, a strong, rich, or tall man. 

It was taught: One who carries a burden on his head is not 
culpable. And if one will say that the inhabitants of the city of 
Hutzal do so, we may assume that their deed is abolished by the 
rest of mankind, who do not carry burdens on their heads. 

MISHNA /V.: One who intends to carry something in front, 
but the thing moved to his back, is not culpable, but if he intends 
to carry it on his back and it moves to the front heis. Of a 
truth it was said: A woman who wears a girdle, whether she 
carries something in the front or in the back of it, is culpable, 
because the girdle invariably turns around. R. Jehudah says the 
same rule applies to letter-carriers. 

GEMARA: Where is the difference? The main object (here 
is the intention). And in either case his intention was not carried 
out; why is he not culpable if the thing moved from the front to 
the back and culpable if it moved from the back to the front? 
Said R. Elazar: “ Divide the Mishna into two parts. The second 
part was not taught by the same Tana as the first.”” Said R. Ashi: 
“This is no question at all. Perhaps the Mishna may be explained 
thus: Not only did the man intend to carry it on his back and 
did so, which would make him culpable, because his intention was 
carried out, but even if he intended to carry it on his back and it 
moved to the front, in which case his intention was not carried 
out, lest one say that then he is not culpable, it comes to teach 
us that when one intends to preserve the thing with little safety, 
and it occurs that he has done so with a proper safety, he is ben- 
efited by it; hence he is culpable.” 

“Of a truth it was said.’ There is a Boraitha: Wherever it 
is said “ Of a truth it was said,” it is to be considered that so the 
Halakha prevails. 

“R. Jehudah says the same rule applies to letter-carriers.” A 
Boraitha in addition to it states that so it is because the carriers 
of the government usually do so. 

MISHNA V.: One who carries out a large loaf of bread into 
public ground is culpable. If two persons do this together they 
are both innocent, provided it could be done by one of them; if, 
however, they did so because it could not be done by one, both 
are culpable. R. Simeon, however, declares them not culpable. 

GEMARA: Said R. Jehudah in the name of Rabh, according 
to others Abayi said, and still others say that it was learned in a 
Boraitha: “If of both men who carried the loaf, either was able 


176 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


to carry it himself, R. Meir makes them both culpable, but R. Je- 
hudah and R. Simeon declare them both innocent. If, of the two, 
neither was able (to do it himself), R. Jehudah and R. Meir declare 
them culpable and R. Simeon declares them free. If one of the 
two, however, was able, and the other unable, all agree that the 
able man is culpable.”” Whence is all this deduced? From what 
the rabbis taught: It is written [Lev. iv. 2]: “If any person sin,” 
etc., z.c., if he committed the whole deed but not a part of it. 
How so? If two persons held one pitchfork and threw grain with 
it, or a weaver’s spindle and wove with it, or a quill and wrote 
with it, or a reed and carried it into public ground, one might say 
that they are culpable. It is written [ibid.]: “If any person sin,” 
etc. But if two persons held a date-press, or a log, and carried 
them out into public ground, R. Jehudah says, if one of the two 
was not able to carry it himself and they both carried it, they are 
both culpable, but if either of them was able, both are not culpa- 
ble. R.Simeon says, even if one alone is not able to carry it and 
they carried it out together, they are also free. For only referring 
to such an instanee the Scriptures say: “If azy person,” etc., and 
it is plain that one is culpable if he performs work alone, but if 
two persons did one thing they are both free. 

The master said: If one of the two was able to perform the 
work alone and the other unable, all agree that he is culpable. 
Which of them was culpable? R. Hisda said, the one who was 
able. As to the one who was unable, why should he be so? What 
did he? Said R. Hamnuna to R. Hisda: “ Why not? Did he 
not assist the one who was able? Answered R. Hisda: Assisting 
is not of consequence (because if he alone is not able to perform 
the work himself, his assistance is of no value). Said R. Zbid in 
the name of Rabha: “ We have also learned in a Boraitha in sup- 
port of this argument: If one suffering from a venereal disease 
rides an animal, the feet of which are encased in four pieces of 
cloth, the pieces of cloth are not subject to defilement, for the 
reason that the animal is able to stand on three feet.’’ Why are 
they not subject to defilement? Was not one foot a help to the 
other three? Hence we must assume that one of the feet must 
be regarded as a help to the other three; a mere help, however, 
not having any legal consequence cannot become defiled, and as 
it is impossible to determine which one of the three feet is to be 
regarded as a help, all four pieces of cloth encasing them are not 
subject to defilement. 

Again the master said: If either of the two were able, R. 


TRACT SABBATH. 177 


Meir holds them both to be culpable. The schoolmen propounded 
a question: “ Must the object carried out by them be of double 
the prescribed size, z.¢.,a prescribed size for each of them, in order 
to make them culpable, or does the prescribed size for one man 
suffice to make them both culpable? R.Hisda and R. Hamnuna 
(both answered): One of them held that one prescribed size suf- 
fices, and the other that it must be double in order to make them 
culpable, (and it is known which of them held to the former opin- 
ion and which to the latter). Said R. Ashi: “We have also 
learned ina Boraitha: ‘Two men who carried out a reed used by 
a weaver (into the street) are both culpable.” Why so? Was not 
double the prescribed quantity necessary in order to make both 
culpable? Hence we must assume that the Boraitha holds one 
prescribed quantity to be sufficient.” Said R. Aha, the son of 
Rabba, to R. Ashi: “What proof do you derive from this 
Boraitha? Perhaps it refers to a reed that was of sufficient size 
to cook an egg for one and another for the other?” R. Ashi 
answered : If such were the case, the Boraitha would say merely 
a “reed” and not a “reed used by a weaver.”” Said R. Aha again: 
‘Perhaps the Boraitha refers to a reed of sufficient size to weave 
a napkin each for both of them? Therefore it were better to say 
that from this Boraitha we can derive no support either for one 
opinion or the other.” 

A certain scholar taught in the presence of R. Na’hman: “ Two 
men who carried out a reed used by a weaver (into the street) are 
both not culpable.” R. Simeon, however, declares them culpable. 
How can this be? (Is this not contrary to R. Simeon’s usage ?) 
Read then (on the contrary), the scholars said they are culpable 
and R. Simeon said they are not. 

MISHNA V/Z.: If one carry victuals of less than the pre- 
scribed quantity in a vessel (out into the street) he is not culpable 
even of (carrying) the vessel, for the vessel is of no consequence 
to the victuals. If he carried a person ona litter he is not culpa- 
ble even of (carrying) the litter, because the litter is of no conse- 
quence to the person. If he carried a corpse on a cot he is cul- 
pable. The same is the case if (he carries) a part of the corpse of 
the size of an olive or of a carcass the size of an olive and ofa 
reptile the size of a lentil.. R. Simeon declares all of them free. 

GEMARA: The rabbis taught: “If a man carry out victuals 
of the prescribed quantity in a vessel, he is culpable of carrying 
the victuals, but not of (carrying) the vessel, because the vessel is 
of no consequence to the victuals ; but if the victuals are such that 

VOL. T.—12 


178 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


they cannot be carried otherwise than in a vessel, he is culpable 
of (carrying) the vessel also.” Shall we assume from this teach- 
ing that if one ate two pieces of tallow each the size of an olive at 
different times through forgetfulness (and was not reminded of his 
sin between both times of eating), he is bound to bring two sin- 
offerings? Said R. Ashi: In the case of the man who is culpable 
of (carrying) both the victuals and the vessel, it must be assumed 
that he carried them through forgetfulness and was subsequently 
reminded of having carried only one of them (but forgot about the 
other); later he was reminded of having carried the other also, and 
according to the opinion of the teacher of this Boraitha, he is cul- 
pable and bound to bring two sin-offerings, one for each time he 
was reminded. The same difference of opinion exists here as we 
have seen existed between R. Johanan and R. Simeon b. Lakish 
(in the chapter concerning the general rule of Sabbath). 

“Tf he carried a person in a litter,” etc. Shall we assume that 
the Mishna is in accordance with R. Nathan and not with the 
rabbis of the following Boraitha? “If one carried out an animal 
or a bird (into the street), whether alive or slaughtered, he is 
liable.” R. Nathan, however, says: “ For (carrying out) a slaugh- 
tered (animal or bird) he is culpable, but not for one that is alive, 
because a live creature carries itself.” Said Rabha: “It may be 
said the Mishna is in accordance with the rabbis of the Boraitha 
cited, as they differ with R. Nathan only concerning animals or 
birds, which usually struggle to get loose and thus become a bur- 
den; but concerning a person, who is carried and agrees to being 
carried, and virtually carries himself, the rabbis yield to R. 
Nathan.” 

Said R. Ada b. Ahba to Rabha: How will, in your opinion, 
the statement in our Mishna be made plain: ‘“ Ben Bathyra per- 
mits the selling of a horse to a Gentile, and a Boraitha, in addition 
to this, states that the reason that Ben Bathyra permits this is 
because the Gentile will not perform any work with the horse on 
a Sabbath that would involve the liability of a sin-offering (for a 
horse is used for riding only, and when a person rides a horse the 
person virtually carries himself, and hence is no burden to the 
horse), and R. Johanan says that Ben Bathyra and R. Nathan said 
(practically) the same thing.” Now, if in your opinion the rabbis 
differ with R. Nathan only in the matter of animals and birds, 
because when carried they struggle for freedom, but agree with 
him in the matter of a person, why does R. Johanan say that only 
Ben Bathyra and R. Nathan say the same thing? Did not the 


TRACT SABBATH. 179 


rabbis also admit this? (The answer was:) R. Johanan said that 
Ben Bathyra in permitting a horse to be sold toa Gentile referred 
to one which was used only for carrying falcons. Are there then 
such horses? Yea; they are to be found at the Zaidons’.* 

R. Johanan said: Even R. Nathan holds a man culpable if he 
carries a person, animal, or bird that is bound. 

“If he carried a corpse,” etc. Said Rabba b. b. Hana in the 
name of R. Johanan, and the same was said by R. Joseph in the 
name of R. Simeon b. Lakish: R. Simeon frees one, even if he 
carries out a corpse for burial. Said Rabha: “Even R. Simeon 
concedes that if one carry out a spade to dig a grave with, or a 
scroll to read from, he is culpable.’ Is this not self-evident ? 
Should we then assume that according to R. Simeon’s opinion 
even this kind of labor is not labor for its own sake, how can we 
find any labor for its own sake which in the opinion of R. Simeon 
would involve the liability of a sin-offering? Lest one say that 
R. Simeon does not hold a man culpable for carrying a thing un- 
less the work done with the thing is both for the man’s sake and 
also for the sake of the thing itself—for instance, if the spade was 
needed for digging and also had to be sharpened, or the scroll had 
to be examined and used for reading—hence he informs us that 
such is not the case. 

There was a corpse in Drokrat and R. Na’hman b. Itz’hak 
permitted it to be carried out into unclaimed ground. Said R. 
Johanan, the brother of Mar, son of Rabhina, to R. Na’hman b. 
Itz’hak: “According to which Tana’s opinion do you act? Ac- 
cording to R. Simeon? Did R. Simeon allow this? He only 
stated that the act does not involve the liability of a sin-offering, 
but he did not permit it to start with?’? R.Na’hman answered : 
By the Lord! You yourself, and even R. Jehudah, would allow 
this to be done the same as I did; did I say that it was to be car- 
ried into public ground? I said unclaimed ground! Do not 
forget that this was also for the sake of the honor due a human 
being, of which it is said: “Precious is the honor of man, and for 
its sake even a direct commandment of the Scripture may be cir- 


cumvened!”’ 
MISHNA V//.: One who pares his finger-nails, either by 





* The text reads Vaidon, Luria corrects this to read Zaidon, as we have adopted, 
which means a falconer’s horse. Hai, the Gaon, however corrects it Bazaidon, 
because a falconer in the Persian language is Baz, and one who occupies himself by 
hunting for birds is called Bazaidon. 

+ Name of a city. 


180 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


means of his nails or by means of his teeth; also one who plucks 
hair from his head, beard, or lip; also a woman who braids her 
hair, or paints her eyebrows, or parts her hair, is, according to R. 
Eliezer, culpable. The sages, however, declare this to be (pro- 
hibited only by rabbinical law) as a precautionary measure. 

GEMARA: Said R. Elazar: “The difference of opinion 
exists only in the case of paring the finger-nails by means of 
the nails, but if taken off with an instrument (all agree) that he 
is culpable.” Is this not self-evident? Is it not plainly written 
in the Mishna, if he pares his finger-nails, one by means of the 
others? One might think that the difference of opinion is also 
concerning an instrument, and the reason the Mishna does not 
mention an instrument is only to show the firmness of R. Eliezer 
in prohibiting the paring of finger-nails even with one’s own nails. 
He informs us that the difference of opinion is concerning the 
nails only. R. Elazar said furthermore: “The difference of opin- 
ion is only concerning a man’s paring his own finger-nails, but if 
he pared another’s all agree that he is not culpable. (The reason 
for this is because when paring one’s own finger-nails a man can 
make them look as if trimmed with an instrument, but when 
trimming another’s this is not possible.)” Is this not self-evident ? 
Did not the Mishna say plainly: “ His own finger-nails ” ? Nay. 
One might think that according to the opinion of R. Eliezer the 
trimming of another’s finger-nails also makes one culpable, but 
the Mishna, stating plainly “his own finger-nails,” intends only 
to show the firmness of the rabbis in making not culpable even 
those who pare their own nails; therefore he informs that such is 
not the case. 

“Also one who plucks hair from his head,’ etc. There is a 
Boraitha: “One who cuts off a scissorsful of hair from his head 
on the Sabbath is culpable.” How much is a scissorsful supposed 
tobe? Two hairs. R. Eliezer says: “One.” The rabbis agree 
with R. Eliezer that in case one gray hair is plucked from a num- 
ber of black hairs a man is culpable even for one, and not only 
on Sabbath but even on week days it is also prohibited, as it is 
written [Deut. xxii. 5]: “ And a man shall not put on a woman's 
garment.” 

We have learned in a Boraitha, R. Simeon b. Elazar said : “ If 
a finger-nail become separated from the finger of its own accord, 
a man may remove the adhering part, providing the greater part 
of the nail was separated. He may do this with his fingers, but 
not with an instrument. If he did it, however, with an instru- 


TRACT SABBATH. a81 


ment, he is not liable for a sin-offering. If the smaller part only 
was separated, he may not remove it. If he did so, however, with 
his fingers, he is not culpable, but with an instrument he is. Said 
R. Jehudah: “ The Halakha prevails in accordance with R. Simeon 
b. Elazar.” Said Rabba b. b. Hana in the name of R. Johanan 
“ Provided the nail was bent upward and was troublesome.” 

“Also a woman who braids her hair,” etc. In what category 
can her work be counted? Said R. Abuhu: “It was explained to 
me by R. Jossi b. Hanina: ‘ Painting the eyebrows comes in the 
class of work enumerated as dyeing, braiding, and parting the hair 
in the class of building.’” Is this the manner of building? Yea; 
as R. Simeon b. Menassia taught: It is written [Gen. ii. 22]: 
“And the Lord God formed * the rib which he had taken from 
the man.” From this may be adduced that the Holy One, blessed 
be He, braided the hair of Eve and brought her to Adam. For 
in the seaports hair braiding and dressing is called building. 

We have learned in a Boraitha, R. Simeon b. Elazar said: 
“ Braiding the hair, painting the eyebrows, and parting the hair, 
if done for herself, does not make her culpable (because it cannot 
be properly termed building); but if done for another it does 
make her culpable.” Furthermore, R. Simeon b. Elazar said in 
the name of R. Eliezer: ‘A woman shall not put red dye on her 
face, because that constitutes painting.” 

The rabbis taught: If one milked a cow and then made cheese 
of the milk to the size of a dried fig; if he swept a floor or damp- 
ened a floor (to lay the dust); or if he removed honeycombs from 
a beehive, his case is as follows: If he performed these acts un- 
intentionally on Sabbath, he is bound to bring a sin-offering, and 
if he did all this intentionally on a biblical feast-day, he shall 
receive forty stripes. Such is the opinion of R. Eliezer, but the 
sages said: “All this is only prohibited by rabbinical law as a 
precautionary measure.” (Says the Gemara:) Now the ordinance 
having prevailed according to the opinion of R. Simeon, all these 
acts are not prohibited at all. 

MISHNA V/7/Z.: One who plucks something from a perfo- 
rated flower-pot is culpable; from a flower-pot that is not perfo- 
rated he is not culpable. R. Simeon held him not culpable in 
both cases. 

Abayi put a contradictory question to Rabha, according to 
others R. Hyya b. Rabh to his father Rabh: “ The Mishna states 





* The Hebrew word for ‘‘ formed” is ‘‘ Vayiven,” literally ‘‘ built.” 


182 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


that R. Simeon holds one not culpable in either case. From this 
we see well that to R. Simeon a perforated or a solid flower-pot 
is one and the same thing. We have learned in another Boraitha: 
R. Simeon said that there is no difference between a perforated 
and a solid flower-pot except to make the seeds grown in the 
flower-pot subject to defilement (2.2, in a solid flower-pot the 
seeds are not accounted as seeds). Hence there is a difference 
between the pots in the opinion of R. Simeon.” The answer 
was: In all cases except defilement R. Simeon regards seeds in 
either a perforated or a solid flower-pot as loose (z.e., detached 
from the ground). In the case of defilement, however, it is dif- 
ferent, because the Scriptures themselves added a special provi- 
sion regarding defilement of seeds, as it is written [Lev. xi. 37]: 
“And if any part of their carcass fall upon any sowing-seed 
which hath been sown, it shall be clean.” 


END OF VOLUME I. 














he ek 
vA 7 
ys 
. * 
7 
e 
+ 
eis ee, | 
: — orto 7 7 7 r Sse 7 Me 
oOo - 7s 7 i 7 - 7 7.5 i - a 
7 : 
. a : 
a : F io 
aes aa ey ste ie . 
is 7 : 
i 7 aor i? ‘ 
: ek At as = ; 
ene. y a we : 
8 oad ce oe a acer ae 
~~ oe 7 : 





_— - 












a 7 : 
a ; 
_ _ a — 
oe 
re 
- a : 
= 
a 
_ 
ie o 
7 - 
- nae ace 
7 a ‘' RS t - ‘a 7 a 
eae! 7 
— _ ; 7 
<= .. 
: ee ce ip : a 
7 : > . n ran : * 7 
. vay a 
ae cae oe a : ; 
7 - 4 - 7 : 
; ee. nee oe re 7 feed 
: : Ss Ap ee 7 
o “4 . es ; _ 7 
bel e = 7 eo: i aol i. - : 
' ole 2 : 7 - ; 
i ey rs ne : : ing a 
: - 
of -) - . 
. i S 
; ‘ 
: = 5 
‘a = ts 
ws 
7 


NEW EDITION 


OF THE 


BABYLONIAN TALMUD 


Original Text, Edited, Corrected, Formulated, and 
Translated into English 


BY 


MICHAEBRL LL. KODKINSON 


Revised by 
THE REV. DR. ISAAC M. WISE 


President Hebrew Union College, Cincinnati, O. 


SECTION MOED (FESTIVALS), TRACT SABBATH 


Volume II. 


NEW YORK 


NEW TALMUD PUBLISHING COMPANY 
54 East 106TH STREET 


EXPLANATORY REMARKS. 


In our translation we adopted these principles : 


1. Zenan of the original—We have learned in a Mishna; Zanta—We have 
learned in a Boraitha ; /temar—It was taught. 


2. Questions are indicated by the interrogation point, and are immediately 
followed by the answers, without being so marked. 


3. When in the original there occur two statements separated by the phrase, 
Lishna achrena or Waibayith Aema (literally, ‘‘ otherwise interpreted”), we translate 
only the second. 

4. As the pages of the original are indicated in our new Hebrew edition, it is not 
deemed necessary to mark them in the English edition, this being only a translation 
from the latter. 


CopyriGHT, 1896, BY 
MICHAEL L. RODKINSON. 


CONTENTS. 


PAGE 
SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS OF VOLUME II.—TRaAcT SABBATH, ._ Xxli 
CHAPTER XI. 

REGULATIONS CONCERNING THROWING FROM ONE GROUND 
INTO ANOTHER, ; ; : ‘ ; ‘ ‘ . 189 
CHAPTER. XII. 
‘ REGULATIONS CONCERNING BUILDING, PLOUGHING, ETC., ON 
THE SABBATH, . : : ; : ; : : s 204 
CHAPTER XIII. 
REGULATIONS CONCERNING WEAVING, TEARING, HUNTING, 
ETC., ON THE SABBATH, . : ; ‘ , ; vei 
CHAPTER XIV. 
REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE CATCHING OF REPTILES, ANI- 
MALS AND BIRDs,_. 2 : : 3 : : seg 
CHAPTER XV. 
REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE TYING AND UNTYING OF 
KNOTS ON THE SABBATH, , P ‘ ; : 1) a0 
CHAPTER XVI, 
REGULATIONS CONCERNING ARTICLES WHICH MAY BE SAVED 
FROM A CONFLAGRATION ON SABBATH, . ; , « 239 


CHAPTER XVIT. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE HANDLING OF UTENSILS AND 


FURNITURE ON THE SABBATH, : : : ; . 266 
XXXix 


x] CONTENTS. 


CHAPTER -XVill. 
PAGE 
REGULATIONS REGARDING THE CLEARING OFF OF REQUIRED 


SPACE, THE ASSISTANCE TO BE GIVEN CATTLE WHEN 
GiviInG BIRTH TO THEIR YOUNG AND TO WOMEN ABOUT 
TO BE CONFINED, : ; : ; : : : 296 


CHAPTER XIX. 


REGULATIONS ORDAINED BY R. ELIEZER CONCERNING CIR- 
CUMCISION ON THE SABBATH, . : : : : . 288 


CHAPTER XxX. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING CERTAIN ACTS OF LABOR WHICH 
MUST BE PERFORMED DIFFERENTLY ON A SABBATH AND 


ON A FESTIVAL, , : ; : : ; ‘ . 309 


CHAPTER XXI. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE PoURING OUT OF WINE FROM 
VESSELS COVERED WITH A STONE (WHICH MUST NOT BE 
LIFTED), AND THE CLEARING OFF OF CRUMBS, ETC., FROM 


THE TABLE, : : : : : : ‘ : a. 322 


CHAPTER XXII. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING PREPARATION OF FoOpD AND BEv- 


ERAGES, . : : : : ; : ‘ ; . 328 


CHAPTER XXIII. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING BORROWING, CASTING Lots, WaItT- 
ING FOR THE CLOSE OF THE SABBATH, AND ATTENDING 


TO A CORPSE, . : ; : ; ; : : - ga2 


CHAPTER XXIV. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING A MAN WHO IS OVERTAKEN BY 
Dusk ON THE EVE OF SABBATH WHILE TRAVELLING, 


AND CONCERNING FEEDING OF CATTLE, . ; : . 363 
THE PRAYER AT THE CONCLUSION OF A TRACT, 379 


APPENDIX, . Re ee 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


VOLUME Il.—TRACT SABBATH 





CHAPTER XI. 


MISHNAS I., II., III., IV., and V. Throwing from private into private by 
way of public ground. What constituted the sin of the wood-gatherer. The 
mysterious scrolls found by Rabh in the house of his uncle R. Hyya concern- 
ing the principal acts of labor. What was the name of the wood-gatherer. 
Arraignment of R. Aqiba by Jehudah ben Bathyra for slandering Zeloph- 
chad, by naming him as the wood-gatherer, and for slandering Aaron, by 
Stating that he had been punished by leprosy. Reward for merit comes 
more quickly than retribution for wickedness. Regulations concerning pits 
in public ground for the Sabbath. Throwing from a distance of four ells 
against a wall. Throwing within four ells, when the object thrown rolled to 
a greater distance. Throwing at sea for a distance of four ells, and throw- 
ing from the sea to land, or from one ship to another. Throwing a thing on 
Sabbath and recollecting that it was Sabbath immediately afterwards. If the 
thing thrown was caught by another. The rule concerning what constitutes 
committing an act through error, involving the liability for a sin-offering, 

189-203 
CHAPTER Xt, 

MISHNAS I., II., III., and IV. Concerning building. The amount of 
building involving liability for a sin-offering; the amount of ploughing. The 
writing of how many letters make one liable for a sin-offering ; with which 
hand that is to be done. The wonderful statement of some young men at 
the schoolhouse, which was not heard of even in the time of Joshua the son 
of Nun, Why the letters of the word Sheger (lie) are so close together (in the 
order of sequence of the alphabet) and the letters of Emeth (truth) so far 
apart? Because lies are very frequent and truth very scarce, Tattooing. 
Ben Sattadai, being a fool, cannot be cited as an instance, : 204-212 


CHAPTER XIII. 


Misunas I., II., III., and IV. Concerning weaving. How many threads 
one must weave to become culpable. One who tears an article or breaks a 
xli 


xlil SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


vessel on the Sabbath in a moment of fury is regarded as one who practises © 
idolatry. Concerning one who rends his garments upon being advised of the 
death of a relative on Sabbath. Reward for shedding tears over the death 
of a righteous man. Fate of those who fail to mourn the death of a scholar. 
If one member of the community die, let the entire community beware. 
Rules pertaining to hunting and trapping. May the door be closed on a 
stag who seeks refuge in a dwelling ? , ‘ : : ; 213-218 


CHAPTER XIV. 


MIsHNA I. Concerning the eight kinds of vermin mentioned in the 
Thorah. On what material the Phylacteries may be written. Samuel’s and 
Karna’s experience with Rabh upon the arrival of the latter in Babylon from 
Palestine. Questions put to Rabh by Karna. Samuel’s remedies given 
Rabh during the latter’s illness. Questions put to R. Joshua of Garthi by a 
Bathusee, and R. Joshua’s replies, : . : P : : 219-222 


MIsHNA II. Concerning the preparation of salt water on Sabbath. A 
drop of water the best remedy for sore eyes. Which parts of the body must 
not be touched by the hand immediately after arising and before performing 
the morning ablutions. The comparison of the eye to a princess, who should 
not be touched by a hand that had not been washed three times. Is it per- 
mitted to bathe a sore hand in wine or vinegar on Sabbath? : 222-225 


MISHNAS III. and IV. Concerning foods and beverages which may be 
partaken of on Sabbath for medicinal purposes. Definition of the tree-water 
mentioned in the Mishna. The aptitude of Babylonian beer as a remedy. 
The use of Ikkarim (a preventive against pregnancy), : : 225-229 


CHAPTER AY. 


Misunas L., II., and III. Concerning the tieing and untieing of knots on 
Sabbath. The poverty of R. Jehudah, the brother of Sallah the Pious, and 
the manner he and his shared the use of one pairof sandals, . 230-233 


MisHNA IV. Concerning the folding of clothes and the making of beds 
on the Sabbath. Laws concerning a Sabbath that is concurrent with the 
Day of Atonement. Distinction of attire on Sabbath from that on week-days. 
R. Johanan’s statement in reference to clothes. Rules for walking on the 
Sabbath. Inferences drawn from the biblical passage : ‘‘Give unto the wise, 
and he will become wiser.” Boaz’s object in marrying Ruth. The mention 
made in the Thorah concerning change of attire. The necessity for a scholar 
of keeping his attire immaculate. The degree of trustworthiness required of 
a scholar in order that he may recover a lost article without identification. 
The degree of worth required of a scholar to allow of his eligibility to the 
presidency of a congregation. Rules concerning the cleansing of food on 
the afternoon of the Day of Atonement, ; ‘ : : : 233-238 


CHAPTER XVI. 


MisHnas I. and II. Concerning the saving of sacred scrolls from a con- 
flagration on Sabbath. What is the law concerning such scrolls if written in 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. x lili 


Aramaic, Coptic, Median, old Hebrew, Elamite, and Greek ? What hap- 
pened to Aba Halafta on his visit to R. Gamaliel the Great in Tiberias, 
while sitting at the table of Johanan the Nazuph. Aba Halafta’s reminis- 
cence of R. Gamaliel’s grandfather, in reference to the book of Job, written 
in Aramaic. The law concerning the saving of written benedictions and 
amulets from a conflagration. One who writes benedictions is regarded as 
one who burns the Law. What happened to men of Sidon, who wrote bene- 
dictions, which fact became known to R. Ishmael. Why are the two verses 
(Numbers x. 35 and 36) marked by signs? What is the law concerning the 
saving of the Gilyonim and the books of the Sadducees from a conflagration ? 
R. Tarphon’s dictum in this matter. Ema Shalom, R. Eliezer’s wife’s, and 
her brother R, Gamaliel’s experience with a philosopher, who was also a 
judge. The law concerning covers of books, and to which place they may 
be taken in case of fire, ’ , 3 ; : é : : 239-257 


MISHNA III. How much food may be saved from a conflagration on 
Sabbath ? How should bread be cut on the Sabbath? The number of meals 
to be eaten on Sabbath. The amount of property a poor man may own and 
still not be debarred from accepting charitable gifts. What should be given 
to an itinerant beggar. The reward of those who observe the eating of three 
meals on the Sabbath. The reward of one who maketh the Sabbath a de- 
light. By what means we may make the Sabbath a delight. The good 
deeds related by several Tanaim and Amoraim, to have been especially taken 
care of by them. The different kinds of work performed by each one of the 
Amoraim personally in honor of the Sabbath. Anecdote told of Joseph, who 
honored the Sabbath, and his rich Gentile neighbor. The eventual impover- 
ishment of the Gentile through the purchase of a pearl which was swallowed 
by a fish, and the sudden wealth of Joseph, who bought the fish and found 
the pearl. Experience of R. Hyya bar Aba while the guest of a rich man in 
the city of Ludkai. How must the Day of Atonement be honored? What 
the two angels who accompany man at the close of Sabbath say to one who 
had honored the Sabbath and to one who had not. The story of R. Abuha 
and his calf. Different opinions concerning the cause of the destruction of 
Jerusalem, ; , x : ‘ ; : j : ; 257, 258 


MISHNAS IV., V., VI., and VII. How many loaves of bread may be saved 
in a basket from a conflagration. It is allowed to cover a chest with a goat- 
skin to keep it from burning. Partitions to be made with vessels filled with 
water. Concerning a candle that had fallen on the table. Concerning Gen- 
tiles and minors at the extinguishing of a fire on Sabbath. The miracle 
occurring for Joseph ben Simai. What dangerous animals may be killed on 
Sabbath. The dissatisfaction of the pious with those who kill on the Sabbath, 
and the dissatisfaction of the sages with the pious. Aba bar Minyumi at the 
house of the Exilarch. The story of R. Gamaliel on board of a ship, and of 
Samuel, in whose presence a Gentile lit a candle for his own use, 258-265 


CHAPTER XVII. 


MISHNAS I. to VI. Concerning vessels which may be handled on the Sab- 
bath. Vessels which may be removed for lack of space, also from sunshine 
into the shade ; whether fragments of the vessels may be moved with them, 


xliv SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


and other such matters. The questions put to Rabh by Mari bar Rachel, and 
Rabh’s replies. Concerning window-blinds and covers of vessels, 266-275 


CHAPTER XVIII. 


MISHNA I. How much straw may be removed for the accommodation 
of guests on Sabbath. The reward for hospitality. Different opinions con- 
cerning the merits of hospitality. The six things of which the interest is 
paid to man on earth and the principal in the world to come. The four 
additional things which include the previous six. Concerning one who 
judges his neighbor charitably, and his reward above. The story of the man 
who was hired by the father of Hyrcanos for three years, and who was not 
paid at the end of the term. The story of the pious man who ransomed a 
maiden from captivity. The story of R. Jehoshua and the Roman matron, 
and his disciples. Whether salt meat and salt fish may be handled, 276-281 


MISHNA II. Concerning a basket set down for chickens to climb. Con- 
cerning a woman carrying her child. What may be done in the event of an 
animal falling into the water on Sabbath, . : : ; ; 281, 282 


MISHNA III. Concerning animals about to calve on a festival. What 
assistance may be given a woman about to give birth to child on a Sabbath. 
For how long a period may the Sabbath be violated on account of a woman 
lying-in ? From what time is she considered to be lying-in? Where life is 
at stake, the ordinances may be put to the most lenient construction. Every- 
thing necessary for a sick person, where the illness is not dangerous, should 
be performed by a Gentile. Concerning bleeding. Meals after being bled. 
The duty of drinking wine after being bled, and advice to one who has no 
wine. On what days one should be bled and on what days one should not. 
Everything mentioned in Ezekiel xvi. 4 may be done for a woman lying-in on 
Sabbath, : : : : F : : : : : : 282-287 


CHAPTER XIX. 


Misunas I., II., and III. Concerning the bringing of the knife for circum- 
cision on Sabbath. When it should be brought publicly and when con- 
cealed; when it should be concealed before witnesses. Public carrying of 
the knife as a proof of the love of the commandment. Commandments ac- 
cepted by Israelites with joy are even now carried out joyfully; those received 
with protest are now reluctantly carried out. Story of Elisha, “the man of 
wings.” The Sabbath may be violated on account of preparations for cir- 
cumcision. Concerning the sucking out of the blood, and bandages neces- 
sary for circumcision, What Abayi’s mother told him. Rabh’s experience 
with the physicians of Me’huzza. Children who have imperfect circulation 
should not be circumcised until in perfect health. What happened to Nathan 
of Babylon. How a child should be bathed on Sabbath. The law concern- 
ing hermaphrodites. Concerning a child born at twilight and a child born 
without a foreskin. The story of the child of R. Ada bar Ahabha, who was 
carried to thirteen circumcisers. Whether the Sabbath may be violated on 
account of a child that had been delivered from the side of the mother (with 
instruments). When a child is called a miscarriage. If a child was to a 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. xlv 


certainty regularly born, it must in the event of its death be mourned in the 
regular manner, . : : : : ‘ ; : : : 288-305 


MISHNAS IV., V., and VI. Concerning one who had two children to be 
circumcised. Under what circumstances a child may be circumcised after 
the eighth day and until the twelfth. The benedictions pronounced by the 
circumciser, the father of the child, and the assembled guests after the 
circumcision, < : ; d : : ; ‘ 5 ‘ 305-308 


CHAPTER XX, 


MISHNAS I. to V. Concerning wine-filters. Laws concerning folding- 
beds, folding-chairs, etc. Question put by R. Kahana to Rabh. Rabh’s 
reply and the explanation of same by the Gemara. The assertion that the 
Law will be forgotten by Israel, and R. Simeon’s ben Jochai explanation of 
same. The advisability of investigating amongst the judges in Israel in 
times of trouble. Corrupt judges the hindrance to the resting of the Lord’s 
Shekhina among the children of Israel. Zion’s redemption must come 
through justice. The story of the young scholar who was accused before R. 
Ashi. The story told by R. Joseph concerning the goblet of wine served 
him by Mar Uqba. Concerning the soaking of laserpitium on Sabbath, 
Indisposition of R. A’ha bar Joseph, who was cured by laserpitium. Several 
sayings of R. Hisda, giving advice. How animals must be fed. Concerning 
straw on a bed. Concerning customary and unusual handling of things. 
Small men should not wear large shoes nor women torn shoes, . 309-321 


CHAPTER XXL 


MISHNAS I, to III. Concerning the lifting of a child in connection with 
things held by the child, and the lifting of a corpse in connection with other 
things. Concerning a base to a prohibited thing. Concerning a stone at the 
opening of a barrel or on a cushion. Concerning the removal of husks and 
bones from the table. The decision of Abayi that the school of Hillel is 
always in conformity with R. Simeon’s opinion, that the law of Muktza has 
no foundation, : ‘ : F : ; : ‘. : 322-327 


CHAPTER XXII. 


MISHNA I. How much may be saved from a broken cask. Concerning 
fruit which is pressed in order to extract the juice. Bunches of grapes may be 
pressed into the cooking pot direct, but not intoa bowl. According to biblical 
law one is not culpable for pressing any fruit, with the exception of grapes 
and olives. Witnesses testifying from hearsay are not accredited, 328-331 


MISHNA II. Concerning eatables that are dressed with hot water. The 
three questions propounded by R. Hyya bar Aba: “ Why are the fowls of 
Babylon so fat? Why are the Babylonians so merry during the festivals ? 
Why are the scholars of Babylon so well dressed?” The answers of R. 
Johanan: ‘If a thing is as certain to thee as the fact that thou canst not 
marry thy own sister, then say it. Otherwise, say it not!” . 331, 332 


MISHNAS III. and IV. Concerning the breaking open of a cask and eating 
its contents. Rabh shows his respect for his pupils R. Kahana and R. 


xlvi SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


Ashi by refusing to sit on a bolster when they sat on the ground. Concern- 
ing the depositing of victuals in a cave. Concerning the dusting of clothes 
on Sabbath. R. Shesha’s, the son of Idi, tasteful arrangement of his cloak. 
The narrative of R. Dimi in the name of and regarding Rabbi, . 332-338 


MISHNA V, Concerning bathing in a cavern or in the hot springs of Tibe- 
rias. How the wine of Purgaitha and the water of Deumseth robbed the 
Israelites of ten tribes. How R. Jehudah had a pledge taken from Rabba 
bar bar Hanna to insure the latter’s appearance at his college, and the 
advantage gained by R. Jehudah in learning anew Halakha, . 338-341 


CHAPTER XXII. 


MISHNAS I. and II. Concerning borrowing and lending. Such acts as 
must be performed on festivals should be performed in as different a manner 
to what they are performed on week-days as possible. Concerning the count- 
ing of guests and dishes. Casting lots at meals. A man on whose account 
another is punished is not admitted into the abode of the Lord, . 342-346 


MISHNAS III., IV., and V. Concerning the hiring of laborers on Sab- 
bath. The rule laid down by Abba Saul. Concerning the transaction of 
the affairs of a community on Sabbath. The betrothal of children on the 
Sabbath. The miracle which occurred to a man who would not mend a fence 
of his field on Sabbath. Concerning waiting at the techoom on account of 
a bride or a corpse. Concerning the performance of all necessities for a 
corpse on Sabbath, : : ‘ ; . : ‘ : ‘ 346-353 


MISHNA VI. Closing the eyes of a corpse on Sabbath. Concerning the 
closing of the eyes of a dying person on a week-day. On account of a living 
child, only one day old, the Sabbath may be violated; but not even for David, 
King of Israel, if he be dead, may this be done. A living child one day old 
need not be guarded from the attacks of rats, but even the dead body of Og, 
King of Bashan, must be guarded from such attacks. Practise charity 
when the opportunity presents itself and when it is within thy reach. 
Poverty is compared to a wheel constantly turning. He who pities living 
creatures is pitied also in Heaven. The explanation of many verses in Ec- 
clesiastes regarding the human body. Why R. Hanina did not weep over 
the death of his daughter. There are six kinds of tears which are shed: 
three good and three bad. The dispute of Joshua ben Kar’ha with the 
eunuch. Why Barzillai was a liar. Worms are as annoying to a corpse as 
a needle is to excrescences on the flesh. The soul of a man mourns for the 
body seven days. The narrative relating to R. Jehudah and his actions 
towards a stranger who died in his vicinity. ‘‘ Return thy soul as clean as 
it was given thee,” and the parable connected with the statement. The con- 
versation between R. Na’hman and the dead body of R. Ahai ben Yashi. 
The bones of a man who had no jealousy in his heart will not rot. The souls 
of the righteous are ensconced underneath the throne of honor a twelvemonth 


after leaving the body. ‘‘ Make my funeral sermon impressive, for I shall be 
present.” To repent one day before death means to repent every day, lest 
the morrow bring death. ‘At all times let thy garments be white,” and the 


parable connected withit, . ; ‘ 2 ; : : . 353-362 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. xlvil 


CHAPTER XXIV. 


MISHNA I. Concerning one who was overtaken by dusk on the eve of 
Sabbath while on the road. The Sabbath rest must be kept inviolate as far 
as one’s animal is concerned, but one is not responsible for the Sabbath rest 
of a Gentile. An additional statement concerning the Sabbath rest, which 
the sages would not reveal. On the day the eighteen precautionary ordi- 
nances were instituted, according to the opinion of some, the measure of laws 
was made heaping full, while, according to others, it was not filled enough. 
The examples connected with this statement. Why R. Gamaliel allowed his 
ass to drop dead undera load, . : , : i , 3 363-367 


MISHNAS IL, III., and IV. Concerning the untieing of straw for cattle. 
Concerning the cramming of camels, calves, poultry, and doves. Kneading 
on Sabbath. The fate of those born on the different days of the week, accord- 
ing to the diary of R. Jehoshua ben Levi. The seven planets guiding the 
destiny of man. Designation (Muktza) on account of filth and on account of 
expensive articles, Concerning the cutting up of pumpkins and carrion, 

367-376 

MISHNA V. What vows may be annulled on Sabbath. Whether a vow 
may be annulled before the expiration of twenty-four hours after one hears it 
pronounced, or only during the same day. How consultation concerning 
vows must behad, Should aChacham (sage) only be consulted, or will three 
ordinary men suffice for that purpose? How vows are to be annulled on 
Sabbath. By thought or by word of mouth ; may one say merely: “‘ Go, eat 
and drink!” The sages comply with the request of Mar Zutra and annul his 
vow on a Sabbath. How water for ritual purposes may be measured on 
Sabbath. What happened to Ula at the house of the Exilarch regarding the 
measuring of water in a bath, ‘ , : i ; : : 376-378 


CUSTOMARY CONCLUDING PRAYER. 
Epigraph. Translator’s remarks, . : : : : : 379, 380 


APPENDIX.* 


Concerning the eighteen regulations enacted in the attic of Hananiah ben 
Hizkyah ben Garon. Their importance and influence on the government of 
the Jews. The degeneracy of priestdom, . : ‘ ‘ ; 381-390 





* We would call the attention of the reader to the appendix of this volume, which 
will prove interesting to the general reader and present something heretofore un- 
published to the student of the Talmud. 


y 


ee 
cha 
ee 
cnn ee 





TRACT SABBATH. 


CHAPTER: XI. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING THROWING FROM ONE GROUND INTO 
ANOTHER. 


MISHNA: One who throws a thing from private into public 
or from public into private ground is culpable. From private 
into private ground, by way of public ground, R. Aqiba holds 
him to be culpable, but the sages declare him free. How so? 
If two balconies face each other across a street, one who trans- 
fers or throws something from one into the other is free; if the 
two balconies, however, are in the same building, he who trans- 
fers a thing from one into the other is culpable, but he who 
throws is free; because the work of the Levites (in the taber- 
nacle) was as follows: From two wagons facing each other in 
public ground boards were transferred, but not thrown from one 
into the other. 

GEMARA: Let us see! Throwing is but the offspring 
of transferring. Where is transfer itself mentioned in the 
Scriptures? Said R. Johanan: ‘‘It is written [Ex. xxxvi. 6]: 
‘And Moses gave the command and they caused it to be pro- 
claimed throughout the camp,’ etc. Where was Moses sitting ? 
In the quarters of the Levites. The quarters of the Levites 
was public ground (because all the people were received there 
by Moses). And Moses said unto Israel: ‘ Ye shall not trans- 
fer anything from your quarters (which was private ground) 
into these quarters.’’’ We have found, then, transfer from 
within, but where do we find transfer from without? It is a 
logical conclusion, that transfer from within is the same as 
transfer from without. Still he calls transfer from within the 
principal act and transfer from without but the offspring. Now, 
if transferring from within and transferring from without in- 
volve the same degree of culpability, why does he call the one 

VOL. I1.—I 189 


190 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


a principal and the other an offspring? For the following 
reason: If one commit two principal acts of labor, or two off- 
springs of two different acts of labor, he becomes bound to 
bring two sin-offerings; but if he commits one principal act 
and one offspring of the same act of labor, he becomes bound 
to bring only one sin-offering. 

Whence do we know that if one throw a thing four ells in 
public ground he is culpable ? All that is said about four ells in 
public ground is traditional. 

R. Jehudah said in the name of Samuel: The wood-gath- 
erer’s sin [mentioned in Numbers xv. 32-35] consisted in carry- 
ing four ells in public ground. We learned in a Boraitha, how- 
ever, that he pulled out sticks growing in the ground. R. Aha 
b. R. Jacob said: He gathered the sticks and bound them into 
bundles. What difference is there in the acts ? (Why this dis- 
sension ?) The difference is, as we were taught in the name of 
Rabh, who says: ‘‘ I found a mysterious paper in the possession 
of my uncle, R. Hyya, upon which was written: ‘ Aissi ben 
Jehudah said: The principal acts of labor are forty less one. 
One of them does not involve culpability. R. Jehudah holds, that 
carrying in public ground is not this one act and the Boraitha 
holds that pulling out of the ground is not that one, and R. 
Aha b. R. Jacob holds that binding into bundles is not the 
act which involves culpability.’ Each one of these three was 
certain that if a man committed any of the acts mentioned by 
each he was undoubtedly culpable.’’ 

The rabbis taught: The name of the wood-gatherer was 
Zelophchad, and so it is written [Numb. xv. 32]: ‘‘ And while 
the children of Israel were in the wlderness they found a man,”’ 
etc., and further on [ibid. xxvii. 3] it is written: ‘‘ Our father 
died in the we/derness,’’etc., etc., ‘‘ but in his own sin he died,”’ 
etc., an analogy of the word zw#derness. As by ‘‘our father’’ is 
meant Zelophchad, so also the name of the wood-gatherer was 
Zelophchad. So said R. Aqiba. Said to him R. Jehudah b. 
Bathyra: ‘‘ Aqiba! Whether your statement be true or false, 
you will have to answer for it at the time of the divine judgment; 
for if it be true, you disclosed the name of the man whom 
the Scriptures desired to shield, and thus you brought him 
into infamy, and if it be false you slandered a man who was 
upright.’’ The same case occurred in the following: It is writ- 
ten [Numb. xii. 9]: ‘‘ And the anger of the Lord was kindled 
against them,’’ etc. From this we learn that Aaron also became 


TRACT SABBATH. 191 


leprous. So said R. Agiba. Said to him R. Jehudah b. Ba- 
thyra: ‘‘ Aqiba! Whether your statement be true or false, you 
will have to answer for it at the divine judgment; for if it be 
true, you disclosed a thing the Scriptures desired to conceal, 
and thus you brought infamy upon Aaron, and if it be false, you 
slandered a man who was upright.’’ But the Scriptures say: 
‘And the anger of the Lord was kindled against them.’’ This 
signifies only that Aaron was included among those against 
whom the anger of the Lord was kindled. 

We have learned in a Boraitha according to the opinion of 
R. Aqiba:‘‘ Aaron also became leprous, as it is written: ‘ And 
Aaron turned toward Miriam, and behold she was leprous,’ 
which implies that at the moment when he turned toward Miriam 
he was cured of zs leprosy and perceived it in Miriam.”’ 

Said Resh Lakish: He who suspects an innocent man is pun- 
ished in the flesh, as it is written [Ex. iv. 1]:‘* But behold, they 
will not believe me,’’ and it was known to the Holy One, 
blessed be He, that Israel will believe, and the Lord said unto 
Moses: ‘‘ They are believers and they are children of believers, 
but thou, I know, wilt finally not believe.’’ They are believers, 
as it is written [ibid. iv. 31]: “‘And the people believed.” 
They are children of believers, as it is written [Gen. xv. 6]: 
‘« And he believed in the Lord.’’ Thou wilt finally not believe, 
as it is written [Numb. xx. 12]: ‘‘ Moses and Aaron, because ye 
have not confided in me;’’ and whence do we know that he was 
punished in the flesh, as it is written [Ex. iv. 6]: “‘ And the 
Lord said furthermore unto him, Do put thy hand into thy 
bosom; and he put his hand into his bosom; and when he took 
it out, behold, his hand was leprous, white as snow.”’ 

Rabha said, according to others, R. Jose b. Hanina: Reward 
for merit, destined for a man, comes to him more quickly and in 
a greater degree than retribution for wickedness, for in the case 
of Moses we see it written [Exod. iv. 6]: ‘‘ And he put his 
hand into his bosom; and when he took it out, behold, his hand 
was leprous, white as snow.’’ But the reward was, as it is writ- 
ten [ibid. 7], ‘‘ And when he pulled it out of his bosom, behold, 
it was turned again as his other flesh.’’ The reason that the 
verse repeats “‘ pulled it out of his bosom,’’ is to show, that the 
hand had become cured while in the bosom (and thus the reward 
was given more quickly and effectively). It is written [Ex. vii. 
12]: ‘‘ Aaron’s staff swallowed up their staves.’’ Said R. 
Elazar: ‘‘ This was a miracle within a miracle, for Aaron’s staff 


192 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


did not swallow up the staves (of the Egyptian magicians), which 
had become serpents, while it was itself a serpent, but after it 
was become a staff again.”’ 

‘* From private ground into private ground,’’ etc. Rabha 
propounded a question: ‘‘ Shall we assume that the point of 
difference is in the opinion relating to whether the surrounding 
of a thing by the atmosphere of a certain place makes the thing 
equal to being deposited in that place or not ?’’ And if this is 
the point of difference, it must follow that the Mishna treats of 
a case where the object thrown was at no time above ten spans 
from the ground (because above ten spans no public ground 
exists). Those who deem it a culpable act, do so, because 
they hold that the object, being surrounded by the air of the 
public ground, through which it passed, makes it equal to being 
deposited therein, while those who do not deem it a culpable act 
are not of this opinion; but if the object thrown was above ten 
spans from the ground, do both sides agree that the thrower is 
not culpable? Or shall we assume that both sides do not differ 
as to the object thrown being equal to being deposited in the 
place, the atmosphere of which surrounded it, agreeing that 
such is the case; but their point of difference is as to whether 
throwing is equal to transfer or not? He who holds that the 
thrower is culpable does so because he considers throwing equal 
to transfer by hand, and as transfer makes a man culpable, even 
if it was accomplished above ten spans from the ground, it 
also applies to throwing; but he who holds that the thrower is 
not culpable, does so because he does not consider throwing 
equal to transfer by hand. And the case treated of by the 
Mishna is one where the throwing was done above ten spans 
from the ground? Said R. Joseph: This question was also 
propounded by R. Hisda, and R. Hamnuna decided it from the 
following Boraitha: ‘‘ From private into private ground, by way 
of public ground ztse/f, R. Aqiba makes him culpable, but the 
sages declare him free.’’ Now, if he says, ‘‘ by way of public 
sround ztse/f,’’ it implies that it was below ten spans from the 
ground. Let us then see wherein was the difference of opinion. 
Shall we say that it was a case of transfer by hand and still 
the one who holds him culpable does so because it was below ten 
spans, but if it was above ten spans he would concede that he 
was not culpable ? Howcanthis be? Did not R. Elazar say: 
‘““ He who transfers a burden above ten spans from the ground is 
culpable, because thus were burdens transferred by the sons of 


TRACT SABBATH. 193 


Kehath’’? Therefore we must assume that the Boraitha treats 
of a case of throwing and not of transfer by hand, and hence 
one holds, that an object surrounded by the atmosphere of a 
certain place below ten spans from the ground is equal to an 
object deposited in that place, while the other holds that such 
is not the case. Conclude then from this that the Mishna treats 
of a case where the throwing was done below ten spans from the 
ground. 

The above teaching, however, is not in accord with the opin- 
ion of R. Elazar, for he said: R. Aqiba makes the thrower cul- 
pable even when the throwing was done above ten spans from 
the ground; but for what purpose does the Boraitha state “‘ pub- 
lic ground ztself’’ ? Merely to show the firmness of the rabbis 
in declaring one free, even when he transferred a thing by hand 
through public ground. 

All that was said above is contrary to the opinion of R. 
Helkiah b. Tubhi, because he said: ‘‘ If the throwing was below 
three spans from the ground, all agree that the thrower is culpa- 
ble; if above ten spans, all agree that he is not culpable; but if 
the throwing was done between three and ten spans above the 
ground, then the difference of opinion between R. Aqiba and 
the sages arises.’’ We have learned in a Boraitha in support of 
R. Helkiah: ‘*‘ Below three all agree that one is culpable; above 
ten all agree (that only a rabbinical prohibition exists) as a pre- 
cautionary measure (because no Erubh was made).* If the two 
premises belonged to the thrower, he may throw to start with. 
From three to ten spans is where the point of difference between 
R. Aqiba and the sages arises. 

It is certain, that if it is one’s intention to throw eight ells 
and he throws only four, one is culpable; because it is equivalent 
to the case where one intends to write the name Simeon and . 
only writes Sim (for Sim alone is also a name, and four ells is the 
prescribed distance for throwing); but what is not certain is, if 
one intended to throw only four ells and threw eight, what is his 
case? Shall we assume that he threw the prescribed distance and 
is thus culpable, or, because the object did not reach the desired 
destination, he is not culpable ? The answer was, that accord- 
ing to this question Rabhina asked R. Ashi, and the latter 
answered that no culpability can exist unless he intended that 
the object should remain wherever it happened to alight, z.e., if 





* The law concerning Erubhin will be explained in Tract Erubhin. 


194 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


the man intended to throw eight ells and threw only four he is 
also not culpable, and the assertion that the last-named act is 
equivalent to writing Sim when the intention was to write 
Simeon, which according to the succeeding Mishna is an act 
involving culpability, does not hold good; for he cannot write 
Simeon without first writing Sim, but surely he can throw eight 
ells without previously throwing four ells. 

The rabbis taught: If one threw from public into public 

ground and private ground was in between, and the four ells 
commenced and ended in the two public grounds, including the 
private ground, he is culpable; but if he threw less than four ells 
he is not culpable. What news does this convey to us? It is 
to inform us, that the different premises are counted together and 
that the culpability arises not from the fact that the atmosphere 
of the private ground, having surrounded the object thrown, 
makes that object equal to having been deposited in that private 
ground; because that ordinance does not hold good, and the 
culpability arises merely from throwing four ells in public 
ground. 
— R. Samuel b. Jehudah, quoting R. Abba, who quoted R. 
Huna in the name of Rabh, said: If one transferred an object 
for four ells in a roofed public ground, he is not culpable. Why 
so? Because this public ground is not equal to the public 
ground under the standards in the desert traversed by the Israel- 
ites. This is not so! We know that the wagons which carried 
the boards of the tabernacle were roofed, and Rabh said in the 
name of R. Hyya that the ground beneath the wagons, between 
them, or alongside of them, was all public. Rabh means to 
state that the wagons were not actually covered, but that the 
boards were placed crossways on them in layers, and between 
every layer there was uncovered space, and that space was, in 
the opinion of Rabh, public ground. 

The rabbis taught: The boards used at the tabernacle were 
one ell thick and sloped gradually until they attained the thick- 
ness of one finger at one end, as it is written [Ex. xxvi. 24]: 
‘* And they shall be closely joined together on top by means of 
one ring,’’ and in another passage [Joshua iii. 16] it is written, 
‘* failed, were cut off.’’* So said R. Jehuda. Hence it is evi- 
dent that on top the boards were only one finger thick. R. 
Nehemiah says: ‘‘ They were also one ell thick on top, as it is 





* The Hebrew term for ‘‘ cut off” in that passage is Tamu, and for ‘‘ joined ” in 
the previous passage it is ‘‘ Tamim” ; hence the comparison by analogy. 


TRACT SABBATH. 195 


written [ibid. ibid.], ‘joined together,’ and the ‘ together’ means 
that they were to be the same on top and on the bottom. 
But it says “‘ joined’’ (Tamim)! The Tamim here signifies that 
they must be whole, unbroken. 

The school of R. Ishmael taught: To what can the tabernacle 
be compared ? To a woman going to market, whose dress hangs 
down and drags on the ground (z.e., the curtains were hanging 
down and dragging on the ground). 

The rabbis taught: The boards of the tabernacle came toa 
point and the thresholds contained sockets on which the boards 
were fitted. The hooks and fillets of the curtains appeared like 
stars in the sky. 

The rabbis taught: The lower curtains were of blue, purple, 
and scarlet yarn and of twisted linen thread, and the upper cur- 
tains were of goats’ hair, and more skill was necessary to make 
the curtains of goats’ hair than of the first-named materials, for 
concerning the lower curtains it is written: ‘‘ And all the women 
that were wise-hearted spun with their hands, and they brought 
that which they had spun of the blue, and of the purple, and of 
the scarlet yarn, and of the linen thread’’; but concerning the 
upper curtains it is written [ibid. 26]: ‘‘ And all the women 
whose hearts stirred them up in wisdom spun the goats’ hair.”’ 
And we have learned in the name of R. Nehemiah, ‘‘ The goats’ 
hair was woven right from the goats’ backs without being 
shorn.” 

““ [f the two balcontes,’’ etc. Said Rabh in the name of R. 
Hyya: “‘ The space between the wagons, beneath the wagons, 
and alongside of them is public ground.’’ Said Abayi: ‘‘ The 
space between two wagons was the length of another wagon ? 
What is the length of a wagon? Five ells. Rabha said the 
sides of the wagon (z.e., the width between the sides) was the 
width of a wagon. What is that width? Two and one-half 
ells. Now, we know that the width of a way in public ground 
is sixteen ells. Whence do we adduce this? If we adduce this 
from the case of the tabernacle, it should only be fifteen ells; 
(for the width of two wagons together with the space between 
them was fifteen ells). The answer is: There was another ell 
additional between the two wagons where the Levite walked in 
order that he might watch the wagons and adjust anything that 
might come out of place.’’ 

MISHNA: One who takes anything from, or places anything 
upon a sand-heap, dug out of a pit or a stone that is ten spans 


196 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


high and four spans wide, is culpable. If the sand-heap or the 
stone is below that height, he is free. 

GEMARA: Why does the Mishna say a sand-heap, dug out 
of a pit, orastone? Why not the pit or the stone itself ? (Then 
we would know both the height and depth which must not be 
used for the placing of a thing.) This was said in support of 
the statement of R. Johanan, viz.: That the sand-heap dug out 
of a pit is counted in with the depth of the pit as to height to 
complete the ten spans. We have also learned thus in a Bora- 
itha: One must not draw water from a pit in public ground 
which is ten spans deep and four spans wide, unless he has made 
a railing round the pit that is ten spans high. He must also not 
drink from the pit unless he put his head and the larger portion 
of his body into it. The pit and the sand-heap dug out of the 
pit are counted in with it to complete the ten spans. 

R. Mordecai asked of Rabha: What is the law regarding one 
who threw a thing on a post ten spans high and four spans 
wide, standing in public ground? Shall we assume that he is 
culpable because he removed the thing unlawfully and also 
deposited it unlawfully (¢.e., from public ground into private), 
or that he is not culpable because the object which lighted on 
the post came from ground which is under no jurisdiction, 
being above ten spans from the ground? (If the man had the 
intention to throw the object on top of the post, he must have 
thrown it high up into the air, and before lighting on the post it 
passed through space above ten spans from the ground, and that 
space is regarded as ground under no jurisdiction, therefore he 
is not culpable ?) Rabha answered: ‘‘ This is explained in the 
Mishna.’’ R. Mordecai then went to R. Joseph and asked the 
same question. He received the same answer: “‘ It is explained 
in the Mishna.’’ Thereupon he came to Abayi with the same 
question, and again received the same answer. Said R. Mor- 
decai to Abayi: ‘‘Do ye all spit with the same spittle ?”’ 
Answered Abayi: Dost not ¢hou think that the Mishna explains 
it? Did not the Mishna say, ‘‘ One who takes from or places 
upon’’? Rejoined R. Mordecai: ‘‘ Perhaps the Mishna treats 
of a needle which can be placed on a level with the ten spans 
height.’’ Said Abayi: ‘‘ A needle must also be lifted above the 
level.’’ Said R. Mordecai again: ‘‘ It cam be placed without 
being lifted above the level, because every stone has some crev- 
ices that are lower than the surface of the stone and the needle 
can be placed in one of the crevices.”’ 


TRACT SABBATH. 197 


R. Johanan propounded a question: ‘‘ What is the law 
regarding a man who throws a cake of earth (four spans square 
and one span deep) into a pit exactly ten spans deep and four 
spans square? Shall we say, that he is culpable because he 
threw the cake of earth into the pit, which was still ten spans 
deep and therefore private ground, or that he is not culpable 
because as soon as the cake reached the bottom of the pit it 
lessened the pit’s height to nine spans, and thus made the pit 
unclaimed ground ?’’ Let R. Johanan decide this question 
himself by what he said in the following Mishna: ‘‘ If one throw 
a thing from a distance of four ells against the wall, and it 
strikes the wall at a height of over ten spans from the ground, 
he is free, but if below ten spans from the ground he is culpable, 
because one who throws a thing to the ground at a distance of 
four ells is culpable.’”’ We have investigated the case; how can 
he be culpable if the object thrown did not adhere to the wall ? 
And R. Johanan answered: ‘‘ The case was one of a soft date, 
which dd adhere to the wall.’’ Now, if the conclusion is that 
the cake of earth lessened the depth of the pit, the date which 
adhered to the wall also lessened the distance of four ells from 
where the date was thrown, and he says that the man is culpable ? 
The answer was: In the case of the date the thrower did not 
intend that the date should adhere to the wall permanently, 
while in the case of the pit the cake of earth remained in the 
pit permanently, as intended by the thrower. 

Abayi said: If a man throw a mat into a pit ten spans deep 
and eight spans wide in public ground he is culpable. If he, 
however, placed the mat into the pit so that the pit was divided 
into two equal parts, he is not culpable. (The latter decree 
informs us of two facts: Firstly, that although the mat was 
placed in the pit, while the pit was still of sufficient size to con- 
stitute it private ground and was only diminished at the time the 
mat was placed into it, the man is not culpable, and secondly, 
that the mat takes up sufficient space to make the two pits 
caused by division less than four spans wide each.) Now, if, 
according to Abayi, it is a certainty that the mat is sufficient to 
nullify the enclosures necessary for the designation of private 
ground, so much the more is this the case with the cake of earth 
previously mentioned, but according to R. Johanan, to whom it 
is even questionable whether the cake of earth can produce that 
effect, surely a mat cannot. 

Abayi said again: If a man throw an object into a pit ten 


198 _THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


spans deep and four spans wide, filled with water and standing 
in public ground, he is culpable, but if the pit was filled with 
fruit, he is not culpable; because water does not annul the en- 
closures necessary for the designation of private ground, while 
fruit does (the reason is that an object thrown into a pit of water 
falls to the ground in spite of the water [viz.: a stone or iron], 
while in a pit filled with fruit it rests on top).* We also learned 
the same in a Boraitha, in the name of R. Simeon: ‘‘ Water 
does not annul the enclosures necessary for the designation of 
private ground.’’ 

MISHNA: If one throw a thing (a soft date) from a distance 
of four ells against the wall, and it strike the wall at a height of 
over ten spans from the ground, he is free; but if it strike the 
wall below ten spans from the ground, he is culpable; because 
one who throws a thing to the ground at a distance of four ells 
is culpable. 

GEMARA: Said R. Jehudah, quoting Rabh in the name of 
R. Hyya: If one throw a thing at a distance of four ells against 
a wall, and the thing rested in a hole in the wall above ten spans 
from the ground, the law in his case is decided differently by R. 
Meir and the sages, viz.: R. Meir holds, that any object (like a 
hole) capable of being enlarged, must be looked upon as having 
been already enlarged, and therefore the man is culpable. The 
sages, however, hold that such is not the case; everything must 
be regarded in its actual condition. 

RK. Jehudah said in the name of Rabh: If a man throw a 
thing upon a sand-heap four ells wide and sloping up to a height 
of ten spans, he is culpable, provided the thing rested on the 
highest point of the heap, because the heap is regarded as being 
ten spans high in its entire length. The same we have learned 
in a Boraitha in the name of R. Hanina ben Gamaliel. 

MISHNA: If one threw an object within four ells (in public 
ground) and the object rolled to a greater distance, he is free; if 
he threw a thing outside of four ells and it rolled back within 
four ells, he is culpable. 

GEMARA: Why should a man be culpable in the latter 
clause of the Mishna; the object thrown did not rest outside 
of four ells if it rolled back within the prescribed limit ? Said 





* So explains Rashi (Isaakides) ; we think, however, the reason that water does 
not annul the enclosures is, because water belongs to the public and any one can draw 
it out, and therefore it is equal to not being there ; but, fruits must belong to a pri- 
vate individual and this makes it private ground. 


TRACT SABBATH, 199 


R. Johanan: The Mishna treats of a case where the object 
thrown came in contact with an obstacle by means of which it 
rolled back, and therefore it rested for a moment outside of four 
ells. 

Rabha said: ‘‘ In the opinion of the sages, who differ with 
R. Aqiba concerning his decree, that an object surrounded by 
the atmosphere of a certain place makes the object equal to 
having been deposited in that place, a man who threw a thing 
from private into private ground by way of public ground, even 
below three spans from the ground, is not culpable unless the 
thing thrown rested for a moment at least on the public ground.”’ 
Mareimar sat and repeated the above decree. Said Rabhina: 
‘“ Does not our Mishna say the same, through the declaration of 
R. Johanan, who decrees that the Mishna holds a man culpable 
only if the object thrown by the man rests at its destination for 
a moment ?’’ Answered Mareimar: Thou speakest of a rolling 
thing (which is carried along by the wind and it is not known 
when it will stand still). Such a thing cannot be regarded as 
resting, although it is below three spans from the ground, but in 
our case it is different. The thing was thrown (and was not 
rolled by the wind); so we might assume that when it reached a 
distance of less than three spans from the ground, it must be 
considered as resting on the ground; he informs us (that such is 
not the case). 

MISHNA: If one throw a distance of four ells on the sea, 
he is free; if there happen to be shallow water, through which 
a public thoroughfare leads, where he threw the four ells, he is 
culpable. What must be the maximum depth of such shallow 
water ? Less than ten spans; for one who throws four ells in shal- 
low water, through which only occasionally a public thorough- 
fare leads, is culpable. 

GEMARA: Said one of the schoolmen to Rabha: ‘‘ The 
Mishna mentioning a public thoroughfare twice is justified in 
doing so, because we might presume that a thoroughfare used 
only in cases of necessity cannot be regarded as a public thor- 
oughfare, and hence the Mishna informs us that while in other 
cases use from necessity is not to be regarded as customary, in 
this case it is different. But why is shallow water mentioned 
twice ?’’ Answered Abayi: We might presume that the shallow 
water was xof¢ four ells wide, in which case it would be used as a 
thoroughfare; but if it was four ells, people would circumvene it; 
and thus it would not be considered a public thoroughfare; 


200 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


therefore it is repeated to inform us that there is no difference 
between shallow water less than four ells wide or more. 

MISHNA: One who throws from the sea into land, from 
land into the sea, from the sea into a ship, from a ship into the 
sea, or from one ship into another, is free. If ships are bound 
together, one may transfer an object from one into the other; 
but if the ships are not bound together, even though they lie 
alongside of one another (and meet), one must not transfer a 
thing from one into the other. 

GEMARA: We have learned: If one desires to draw water 
from the sea into the ship, he must make a small (board) attach- 
ment to the side of the ship, and then he can draw the water. 
So said R. Huna, because he holds that unclaimed ground com- 
mences from the bottom of the sea and ends with the surface. 
The atmosphere above the sea is considered as ground under no 
jurisdiction, and hence the making of the attachment was 
really not necessary; but it being Sabbath, this should be done 
to distinguish the Sabbath from week-days. R. Hisda and 
Rabba bar R. Huna said: ‘‘ The attachment made should be 
four ells wide,’’ because they hold that the unclaimed ground 
commences from the surface of the water, and the water itself is 
considered as ground, and if the attachment were not made, it 
would constitute carrying from unclaimed ground into private 
ground, and this is not allowed to commence with. 

R. Huna said: ‘‘ On the small boats, that are not four spans 
wide down their entire depth, a man must not carry anything 
only for four ells (because it cannot be considered private ground), 
unless at a distance of three spans from the ground the boat is 
four spans wide. If there be sticks or refuse at the bottom of 
the boat, the bottom of the boat commences from the top of 
such sticks or refuse, and if the boat be ten spans high, accord- 
ing to that calculation one may carry in it.’’ R. Na’hman 
opposed this: ‘‘ Why should a man not be permitted to carry 
in a boat the bottom of which is not strewn with sticks and 
refuse ?”’? Have we not learned in a Boraitha that R. Jose b. R. 
Jehudah said: “If one placed in public ground a stick (ten 
spans high), on top of which was a trough, which was four spans 
wide, a person throwing anything on top of the trough is culpa- 
ble, because, while the trough was not ten spans high itself, the 
height of the stick upon which it rests is considered as included 
in its own.’’? Why should this not also refer to the case of the 
boat, and the place where it zs four spans wide be considered - 


TRACT SABBATH. 201 


as if it reached down to the bottom? R., Joseph opposed R. 
Na’hman as follows: ‘‘ Did not R. Na’hman hear that R. Jehu- 
dah, in the name of Rabh, according to others, in the name of 
R. Hyya, said, that the sages did not agree with Jose b. R. 
Jehudah and exonerated the man?’’ Hence we see that the 
Boraitha, treating of the boat, holds with the opinion of the 
rabbis. 

‘If ships are bound together,’ etc. Is this not self-evi- 
dent ? Said Rabha: ‘‘ The Mishna wishes to inform us, that 
one is permitted to carry from one ship into another, even if a 
small boat is between them, z.e., one may carry from one ship 
into the boat and thence into the other ship, even though the 
small boat is not tied to either ship.”’ Said R. Saphra to him: 
‘’ Moses!* How canst thou say such a thing? Does not the 
Mishna state explicitly that one may carry from one ship into 
another? No boat between them (was mentioned).’’ R, 
Saphra, however, explained the Mishna thus: The Mishna, by 
saying one may carry from one ship into another, means to say 
that an Erubh may be made between the two ships, just as 
between two houses, and then things may be carried from one 
into the other, as we have learned in a Boraitha: An Erubh may 
be made between ships that are tied together and things may be 
carried from one into the other. If the rope by means of which 
the ships were lashed to each other became torn, carrying to and 
from one ship to the other is not allowed; but if the ships were 
lashed together again, either intentionally or unintentionally, 
through compulsion or through an error, the original permission 
again holds good. 

The same is the case with mats of which tents were made, 
whereby the ground enclosed by the mats becomes private; and 
if many such tents were made, carrying from one tent into 
another is permitted, provided an Erubh is made. If the mats 
were rolled up, however, such carrying is not permitted. Were 
the mats rolled down again, intentionally or unintentionally, 
through compulsion or through error, the original permission 
again holds good. 

It was reported in the name of Samuel: If the ships were 
tied together with a mere thread, permission to carry from one 
into the other holds good. 


MISHNA: If one threw a thing, and after the thing had 





* The word Moses was used as a title to a great teacher. 


202 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


passed out of his hand, he recollected that it was Sabbath; if 
another person caught the thing thrown; if a dog caught it or if 
the thing thrown was consumed by fire (before reaching its des- 
tination), the man is free. If ome threw a thing for the purpose 
of injuring a man or a beast, and before such injury was inflicted 
recollected (that it was Sabbath), he is free. (For) this is the 
rule: Only such are culpable and bound to bring a sin-offering as 
commit an act through error from beginning to end; if the act, 
however, was committed through error only at the start, and at 
the close was committed consciously, or vice versa, the perpe- 
trator is free until the beginning as well as the end of the act is 
committed through error. 

GEMARA: What would be the case, if the thing, after 
passing out of the thrower’s hand, had rested (outside of four 
ells in public ground)? Would he be culpable? Why! Did 
he not recollect (that it was Sabbath) before the thing rested ? 
And our Mishna (distinctly) states that one cannot be culpable 
unless an act were committed through error from beginning to 
end! Said Rabha: The Mishna teaches us two facts: Firstly, 
if one threw a thing, and after the thing had passed out of his 
hand he recollected (that it was Sabbath); or secondly, even if 
he did not recollect (that it was Sabbath), but another man, or 
a dog, caught the thing, or it was consumed by fire before it 
rested, he is not culpable. 

‘““ This is the rule.’’ We have learned: If one threw a dis- 
tance of six ells, two ells through error, the next two con- 
sciously, and the last again through error, Rabba declares him 
free. (How can that occur? As soon as the object had passed 
out of his hand and had not yet reached farther than two ells, he 
became conscious that it was Sabbath, and before it had passed 
the next two ells he forgot again that it was Sabbath.) Rabha, 
however, declares him culpable. Rabba declares him free, even 
according to the opinion of R. Gamaliel (in the last Mishna of 
Chapter XII.), who does not consider the consciousness during 
the time intervening between the perpetration of the two acts 
(each of which only executed one-half the prescribed deed) as 
being of any consequence (but considers the two unfinished acts 
as one prolonged act done unintentionally and making the per- 
petrator culpable). For what reason? Because in the case 
treated of in the cited Mishna nothing was done during the 
period of consciousness (of the Sabbath) intervening between 
the two unfinished acts to neutralize the erroneous character of 


. TRACT SABBATH. 203 


the two unfinished acts, and thus they became one finished act 
and made the perpetrator culpable. In this case, however, Rabba 
assumes that during the time intervening between the passing 
of the first two ells and the last two ells, the man carried the 
thing, and did so fully conscious (of the Sabbath), and thus neu- 
tralized the erroneous character surrounding the throwing for the 
first two and last two ells. Rabha, however, declares him cul- 
pable, even according to the rabbis, who hold contrary to the 
opinion of R. Gamaliel (in the cited Mishna) and consider the 
consciousness (of Sabbath) during the period intervening between 
the two unfinished acts as a neutralization of the unintentional 
character of the unfinished acts, thus making the perpetrator 
not culpable. In this case, however, the man is culpable. 
(Why so?) Because in the case cited in the same Mishna 
the entire act could have been committed, but was not, for 
after the man became conscious (of its being Sabbath) he 
stopped; hence the unfinished act was not counted. Later he 
again forgot that it was Sabbath, but again recollected, before 
the entire act was committed; so the second unfinished act was 
not counted, and the man is free. In this case, however, the 
thing having been thrown could not be stopped when the man 
became conscious of its being Sabbath before it reached its des- 
tination! Thus the act was committed, and the fact that the 
thrower became conscious (of its being Sabbath) in the mean time 
is of no consequence. (Now, the conclusion is that there is 
really no difference between the rabbis and R. Gamaliel or be- 
tween Rabba and Rabha, because all agree that if the thing was 
thrown the man is culpable, but if carried by hand he is not.) 

Rabba said: If one threw a thing and it rested in the mouth 
of a dog or in the opening of an oven, he is culpable. Did 
we not learn in the Mishna that if a dog caught it, or if it was 
consumed by fire, he is not culpable? Yea; but the Mishna 
refers to a case where the intention was to throw it elsewhere 
and accidentally a dog caught it or it was consumed by fire; but 
Rabba means to say that a man is culpable if he intentionally 
throw it into the dog’s mouth or into the oven. Said R. Bibhi 
b. Abayi: We have also learned elsewhere that the intention to 
have a thing rest in a place makes that place a fit one for the 
thing. 


CHAPTER XII. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING BUILDING, PLOUGHING, ETC., ON THE 
SABBATH. 


MISHNA: (Among the forty, less one, principal acts of 
labor, building was enumerated.) What is the least amount of 
building which will make a man culpable? The least possible 
amount. The same applies to stone-masonry, smoothing with a 
hammer (at the close of the work); as for planing, he who planes 
the least bit, and for drilling, he who drills ever so little, is cul- 
pable. For this is the rule: He who performs any act of labor 
which is of permanent value is culpable. R. Simeon ben Gama- 
liel said: He who during his work strikes the anvil with his 
sledge is culpable, because he virtually brings about labor. 

GEMARA: Of what use is so small an amount of building ? 
Said R. Aha bar Jacob: ‘‘So small an amount of building is 
usually done by a householder who discovers a hole in the wall 
of one of his rooms and fills it up (with wood or cement). And 
the instance of such work having been performed at the (con- 
struction of the) Tabernacle is: When one of the boards con- 
tained a hole produced by worms, a little molten lead was 
poured into it and it was thus filled.”’ 

Samuel said: “‘ One who places a stone in the street for the 
purpose of paving the walk is culpable.’’ An objection was 
made. We have learned elsewhere: If one furnish the stone 
for paving and another furnish the mortar, the latter is culpa- 
ble? [Says the Gemara:] If you base your objection to Sam- 
uel’s decree upon this Boraitha, why do you not also cite the 
latter decree of the Boraitha which reads: R. Jose says: ‘‘ One 
who picks up a stone and places it upon a row of stones is also 
culpable’’? Hence we see that there are three different kinds 
of building. Building at the base, in the centre, and on the 
top. Building at the base only requires a solid foundation in 
the earth. Building in the centre requires mortar. Building on 
top needs only proper placing without the use of mortar. 

‘““Stone-masonry.’’ In what category of labor can stone- 

204 


TRACT SABBATH, 205 


masonry be placed, that its performance should make one culpa- 
ble? Rabh said it comes under the category of building, and 
Samuel said under the category of smoothing with a hammer. 
The same difference of opinion exists between Rabh and Samuel 
in the case of one who bores a hole in a chicken-coop that was 
not previously perforated. The former holds this to be build- 
ing, while the latter regards it the same as smoothing with a 
hammer. (It makes no difference to one who performs such 
labor unintentionally, for in either event he must bring a sin- 
offering, regardless of what class of labor he performed, if he 
does only oxe act; but when he performs two acts there is a 
difference. If they are both of ove category, he is bound to 
bring only one sin-offering, but if they are of different categories, 
he must bring ¢wo, but in the case of one who performed such 
work with intention, even if he does only one act it does make 
a difference. The witnesses to his deed when warning him—of 
his wrong-doing—must inform him just what class of labor he is 
engaged in executing. Should they tell him incorrectly, he 
cannot be held guilty. This applies to all cases where the 
Gemara asks as to the category of labor performed.) The same 
difference of opinion also exists in the case of one who affixed 
a handle to a pickaxe, Rabh classing such work as building, and 
Samuel as smoothing with a hammer. 

A question was propounded by R. Nathan bar Oshiya to R. 
Johanan: ‘* Under what category of labor is stone-masonry to 
be placed ?’’ R. Johanan answered him by making the sign of 
hammering with his hand. 

‘“* For this ts the rule.’’ What additional significance does 
the statement ‘‘ for this is the rule’’ contain? It applies to the 
hollowing out of a block of wood capable of holding a Kabh 
(about four lugs), a cavity a good deal smaller. 

“R. Simeon ben Gamatltel said,’’ etc. What labor is per- 
formed by striking an anvil with a sledge? The Tosephta in 
this chapter explains it as follows: ‘‘ Said R. Simeon ben Gama- 
liel: He who during his work strikes the anvil with the sledge 
is culpable; because at the construction of the Tabernacle those 
that covered the boards with metal-plate would strike the 
plates with their hammers.”’ 

MISHNA: One who ploughs, grubs, weeds, or prunes ever 
so little is culpable. One who gathers wood for the purpose of 
using the space occupied by the wood is culpable if he gathers 
ever so little; but if he gathers it for the purpose of lighting a 


VOL, Il.—2 


206 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


fire with it, he is culpable only if he gathered as much as is 
required to cook (an easily boiled egg). If one gathered grass 
for the sake of the space occupied by it, he is culpable for gath- 
ering even ever so little; if for the purpose of feeding cattle, he 
does not become liable unless he gathered as much as a goat’s 
mouthful. 

GEMARA: Of what use is a place where a man ploughed 
ever so little? It may be used to plant one seed of a cucumber 
in. This was also done at the Tabernacle, where one root was 
all that was necessary (for dyeing) and was pulled out of the 
ground, thereby making a hole. (This is not contradictory to 
what we have learned previously, that the minimum prescribed 
quantity for cucumber seeds was two, because a man will not 
take one cucumber seed out for sowing; but when sowing a 
separate hole is made for each seed and thus the prescribed quan- 
tity in this case is limited to one.) 

‘“ One who ploughs, grubs, weeds, or prunes.’’ The rabbis 
taught: One who tears out herbs (which when damp are good 
for human food) for the purpose of eating them is culpable if 
the quantity equals or exceeds the size of a dried fig. For 
cattle the prescribed quantity is that of a goat’s mouthful. _ If 
for the purpose of using for fuel, the prescribed quantity is as 
much as is used to cook an easily boiled egg with; if for the 
purpose of cleaning (weeding) his place, he is culpable even for 
ever so little. Is all this kind of work not done for the sake of 
cleaning the place ?* Said Rabba and R. Joseph: The Mishna 
treats of a case where even if the man was not standing in a 
garden belonging to an individual, but even if he did it in a 
public field (if his intention is to clean the place he is culpable). 
Abayi said: (The same is the case) even if he did it in a private 
field and had no intention to clean the place, as it did not belong 
to him but to some one else. 

MISHNA: One who writes two letters, with the right or 
with the left hand, be they of one denomination or of different 
denominations, or be they written with different inks or be they 
letters of different languages (alphabets), is culpable. R. Jose 
said: The only reason that one is declared culpable for writing 
two letters, is because they can serve as marks; for thus the 
boards used at the Tabernacle were marked in order to be able 
to tell which fit together. Rabbi (Jehuda Hanassi) said: We 





* This means that taking the things away cleans the place even unintentionally. 


TRACT SABBATH. 207 


also often find a short name which forms part of a long name, as 
Sam for Simeon and Samuel, Noah for Nahor, Dan for Daniel, 
Gad for Gadiel. 

GEMARA: It would be right if the Mishna were to say that 
if one write with his right hand he is culpable, because writing 
with the right hand is the general way; but writing with the left 
is entirely out of the ordinary. Why should he be culpable ? 
Said R. Jeremiah: ‘‘ The Mishna also refers to a left-handed 
man.’’ A left-handed man? His left is his right and his right 
his left hand. Let him then not be culpable if he use his right 
hand! Said Abayi: In the case of the Mishna a man is referred 
to who has equal strength in both hands; but R. Jacob, son of 
the daughter of Jacob, said: The Mishna stands according to 
the decree of R. Jose that the reason of a man’s culpability is 
because of the letters standing for marks, and the making of 
marks with either the right or the left hand is prohibited. How 
can the first part of the Mishna be according to the opinion of 
R. Jose—it teaches further, “‘R. Jose said’’? If the latter 
part is explicitly attributed to R. Jose, the first part cannot be 
in accord with him. Nay; the entire Mishna is in accord with 
R. Jose (say then decause R. Jose said). 

‘““Rabbt said: We also often find a short name,’’ etc. What 
does Rabbi mean by this teaching? Shall we assume that one 
is culpable only if he wrote two letters representing two different 
names, but if the two were merely an abbreviation of one name 
he is not culpable ? Did we not learn in a Boraitha: ‘‘ It is writ- 
ten [Lev. iv. 2]: And do (of) any (one) of them.’’ One might 
assume from this verse that the man is not culpable unless he 
wrote the entire name, or wove the entire cloth, or he finished 
the whole length of the seam, therefore it is written ‘‘ of any 
(one) of them.’’ Now, if we take ‘‘ of any (one) of them’’ 
literally, the writing of even one letter or the weaving of even 
one thread should make one culpable! Therefore it is written: 
““Of any (ome) of them.’’ How should this be understood ? 
One is not culpable until he writes a short name which forms 
part of a long name, like Sam for Simeon or Samuel, Noah for 
Nahor, etc., etc. Rabbi (Jehudah) said: The two letters need 
not be part of a long name, but even if the two form a name 
(of a thing) in themselves like: Shesh, teth, red, gag, choch. 
(shesh—lion, teth—to give, red—go below, gag—roof, choch— 
nose band.) Said R. Jose: Is then the man culpable because of 
writing ? It is only because of making a mark, for thus were 


‘ 


208 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


the boards of the Tabernacle marked in order that one might 
tell which fit together. Therefore if one made but one scratch 
on two boards or two scratches on one board, he is culpable. R. 
Simeon quotes the same verse: ‘‘ And do (of) any (one) of 
them.’’ One might assume that the man is not culpable unless 
he wrote the entire name, etc. How should this be understood ? 
One is not culpable until he has performed labor which is per- 
manently fixed. Now inthe Boraitha we see that R. Jehudah 
said the two letters need not be part of a name, but even if the 
two form aname. (Does not R. Jehudah contradict himself ?) 
This presents no difficulty. In the above Mishna he gives his 
own opinion, while in the Boraitha he cites his master’s opinion, 
because we have learned in another Boraitha: R. Jehudah said 
in the name of R. Gamaliel: ‘‘ Even if the two letters are not 
part of a long name, but form a name in themselves, he is cul- 
pable. For instance: shesh, teth, etc.’’ 

Did not R. Simeon say the very same thing as the first 
Tana? Perhaps one might say that R. Simeon refers to one who 
wrote two letters that have no meaning and are part of a long 
word. For instance, Aa from Aazreko (I assisted you). In 
such a case R. Simeon would be the stricter and the first Tana 
the more lenient. Is this not contrary to R. Simeon’s wont, as 
we have learned in a Tosephta further on: “‘ If one bore a hole 
with a drill, be the hole ever so small, he is culpable,’’ etc.? R. 
Simeon however declares him free until the hole made was as 
large as it was originally intended to be. Answer and interpret 
R. Simeon’s words thus: One might say that one is not culpable 
until he writes the whole verse; therefore it is written “‘ of any 
one,’ signifying that one word is sufficient. 

‘“* Rabbi said: We also often find,’’ etc. How can the name 
of Sam be equal to Simeon? The (letter) Mem in Sam is an 
end (closed) letter, while the Mem in Simeon is an open (middle) 
Mem.* ‘Said R. Hisda: From this we may infer that if one 
write by mistake an open Mem instead of a closed Mem in the 
scroll of laws, the scroll may be used. 

The rabbis said to R. Jehoshua ben Levi: There were some 
young men at the schoolhouse to-day, and they related such 
wonderful things as were never taught before even in the time 
of Joshua the son of Nun. These are they: Aleph, Beth 





* The five Hebrew letters Khaf, Mem, Nun, Peh, and Tzadi are written differ- 
ently at the end and in the centre of words. 


TRACT SABBATH. 209 


means Oliph Bino (go and teach knowledge). Gimmel, Daled 
means Gmol (be bountiful) Dalim (to the poor). Why is the 
foot of the Gimmel pointed toward the Daled? Because so 
should be the feet of those who are bountiful—ever ready to 
seek beneficiaries. Why is the foot of the Daled pointed back 
toward the Gimmel? In order that the poor man may know 
that he must not conceal himself from his benefactor. Why 
does the Daled turn its face from the Gimmel? In order to 
teach us that the benefactor should give to the poor without 
ostentation and that the poor man be not abashed. Hey, 
Vav, Zayin, Cheth, Teth, Iod, Khaf, Lamad means: Hey Vav, 
which is the name of the Holy One, blessed be He; (Zayin) 
Zon—He will feed thee; (Cheth) Cheyn—will be gracious unto 
thee; (Teth) Tov—will be good to thee; (Iod) Ierushah—He 
will make thee inherit in the world to come; (Khaf) Khesser— 
He will give thee a crown; (Lamad) Leaulim haboh—in the 
world to come. 

Mem open (middle) and Mem closed (end) means Meimar 
(sayings) Pathuach (open) [implying that there are such sayings 
of God as are open to every one]; but Meimar (sayings) Sathum 
(closed) [implying that there are sayings of God which are hidden 
to most men]. Noon curved (middle) and Noon straight (end) 
means Neamon (an upright man); Khaph (curved) [should be 
(curved) bowed down, modest in this life, and in the life here- 
after he will become a Neamon] (an upright man) Pashut 
(straight). Samach means Smohch (assist). Ayin means aniim 
(the poor). Peh round (middle) and Peh straight (end) means 
Peh (a mouth) Pasuach (shall be open [to teach]); and Peh 
(mouth) Sasum (shall be closed [to slander]), Tzadi round 
(middle) and Tzadi straight (end) means Tzadik (a righteous 
man) should be modest and fearless (straight). Quph means 
Qodosh (holy), implying who does all, that has been mentioned, 
is holy. Resh means Roshoh (wicked), implying, who does the 
contrary is wicked. Why does the crown of the Quph look 
down upon the Resh? Just as the Qodosh (Holy One, blessed 
be He) looks down upon the Roshoh (the wicked), saying: Turn 
from thy ways and I shall also give thee a crown. Why does the 
foot of the Quph hang unsupported? In order to admit of the 
wicked entering into the Qudoshim (holiness) if he turn from his 
ways. Shin means Shegqer (a lie) and Thaph means Emeth 
(truth). Why are the letters of Sheqer so near to one another 
(the order of sequence in the alphabet is Resh, Quph, Shin) and 


210 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Emeth so far from one another (being the first, middle, and last 
letters of the alphabet) ? Because lies are very frequent, while 
truth is very scarce. Why have the letters in Sheqer but one 
foot while those in Emeth have so many? Because lies will 
finally totter, while truth will stand supreme. 

MISHNA: One who through forgetfulness at one time wrote 
two letters is culpable. He may have written with ink, paint, 
dye, gum, or vitriol, or with anything making a permanent 
mark. Further, one who wrote on two walls forming a corner, 
or on two covers of an arithmetical book, so that the two letters 
can be read together, is culpable. One who writes on his own 
body is culpable. One who tattooes letters in his flesh R. 
Eliezer holds him culpable for a sin-offering, and R. Jehoshua 
holds him to be free. If one write with dark liquids, with fruit- 
juice, or in road-dust, in fine sand, or in anything that does not 
retain the writing, he is free. If one write with the back of 
his hand, with his feet, with his mouth, with his elbow; or if 
one write one letter to another letter (that had already been 
written), or writes over letters that had been written before; or 
when one’s intention was to write a Cheth and wrote two Zayins; 
or if one write one letter on the ground and another on the 
wall, or on two separate walls, or on two separate pages of a 
book, when the two letters cannot be read together, he is free. 
If one wrote one abbreviated letter, R. Jehudah ben Bethyra 
holds him culpable and the sages hold him free. 

GEMARA: “‘ Or with anything making a permanent mark,’’ 
etc. What other additional things does the Mishna mean to 
express by this? R. Hananyah taught: It means if one wrote 
with berry-juice or with gall-nuts, he is also culpable. R. Hyya 
taught: ‘‘ If one wrote with graphite, soot, or black ink, he is 
culpable.’’ 

‘“ One who tattooes two letters on his flesh,” etc. We have 
learned in a Boraitha: Said R. Eliezer to the sages: ‘‘ Did not 
the son of Sattadai* bring witchcraft out of Egypt, through 
tattooing on his flesh ?’’ Answered the sages: ‘‘ He was a fool 
and we do not cite single instances of fools.’’ 

‘If one write one letter to another letter,’ etc. According 
to which Tana’s opinion is this? Said Rabba bar R. Huna: 
‘This is not according to the opinion of R. Eliezer, for R. 
Eliezer said that if one add another thread to one already 





* As to who Ben Sattadai was, see the works of Prof. Derenbourg. 


TRACT SABBATH. 211 


, 


woven, he is culpable.’’ We have learned in a Boraitha: “ If 
one wrote one letter at the end of any scriptural book, thereby 
finishing that particular book, or if one added another thread to 
one already woven, he is culpable.’’ According to which Tana’s 
opinion is ¢#zs ? Said Rabba bar R. Huna: “ This is in accord- 
ance with the opinion of R. Eliezer, who said that if one add 
another thread to one already woven he is culpable.’’” R. Ashi 
said: We may assume that the opinion of the sages does not 
conflict with this opinion, because the case of finishing a book 
differs from that of adding another thread; hence, according to 
their opinion, one is also culpable (for finishing a book by add- 
ing one letter). 

We have learned in a Boraitha: ‘‘ If one corrected one letter 
in the Scroll of laws, he is culpable.’? How can this be? One 
is not held culpable for writing one letter; how can the Boraitha 
hold one culpable for merely correcting one letter? Said R. 
Shesheth: ‘‘ Here a special case is treated of; z.¢., if one take 
off the top bar of the Cheth and make two Zayins out of 
it.’’ Rabha said: The same is the case if, for instance, one 
remove the square portion of a Daled and form a Resh there- 
from. 

‘“Tf one wrote one abbreviated letter,’’ etc. R. Johanan 
said in the name of R. Jose ben Zimra: ‘‘ Whence do we know 
that there are abbreviated letters in the Scriptures? As it is 
written [in Gen. xvii. 5]: Khi Ab Hamaun Goyim Nsathicha 
(For the father of a multitude of nations have I made thee). In 
the word Ab the Aleph is the abbreviation of Ab—father, and 
the Beth stands for bachur—selected; Hamaun stands for haviv 
—lovely, Melech—king, vathig—modest, neamon—upright. All 
this I have made thee among the nations.’’ R. Johanan 
declares of his own accord: ‘‘ The ten commandments commence 
with Anauchi when it could be Ani (meaning I am). The 
Anauchi is an abbreviation for Ano (I), Naphshi (my soul), 
Kthovith (I have written), Yehovith (and have given).’’ 

MISHNA: If one, through forgetfulness at two different 
times, write two letters, say one in the morning and the other 
toward evening, R. Gamaliel holds him to be culpable and the 
sages declare him free. 

GEMARA: On what point do R. Gamaliel and the sages 
differ? R. Gamaliel does not consider the consciousness (of its 
being Sabbath) during the time intervening between the perpe- 
tration of the two acts (each of which executed only half the 


’ 


212 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


prescribed deed) as being of any consequence (but considers the 
two unfinished acts as one prolonged act done unintentionally 
and making the perpetrator culpable). The sages, however, con- 
sider the consciousness (of Sabbath) during the period interven- 
ing between the two unfinished acts as a neutralization of the 
unintentional character of the unfinished acts and thus make the 
perpetrator not culpable. 


CO Ar ick. EL 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING WEAVING, TEARING, HUNTING, ETC., ON 
THE SABBATH. 


MISHNA: R. Eliezer said: One who weaves (on the Sab- 
bath) is culpable, as-soon as he has woven three threads at the 
beginning of the web, and with a web already begun the addi- 
tion of one thread suffices to make him culpable. The sages 
said: Both at the commencement of a new web, as well as at 
the continuation of one already begun, the prescribed quantity 
(making one culpable) is two threads. One who attaches two 
threads to the web, either to the warp or to the shoot, to the 
fine or to the coarse sieve, or to the basket, is culpable. Also 
one who sews two stitches, or tears asunder, in order to sew 
(together with) two stitches. 

GEMARA: When R. Itz’hak came to Babylon, he taught 
that R. Eliezer said ‘‘ two threads and not three,’’ as stated in 
the Mishna. But we learned three! This is no contradiction. 
R. Itz’hak refers to thick threadsand the Mishna to thin. 

‘“ One who attaches two threads,’ etc. Said Abayi: This 
means, one who attached two threads fo the web and one zz the 
web. 

‘“ One who sews two stitches,’ etc. Was this not taught in 
the Mishna treating of the principal acts of labor? Because in 
the succeeding Mishna the rule is taught concerning one, who 
tears while in a rage, or through grief at the death of a near rela- 
tive, sewing and tearing is repeated in this Mishna. 

‘Or tears asunder in order to sew together with two stitches.’’ 
How is this to be imagined? (If by tearing the thing one means 
to spoil it, he may tear even as much as will require any number 
of stitches and not be culpable, but if he tears in order to sew 
together with two stitches and thus improve the thing, how 
can that be done?) This can be done in the case of a piece of 
cloth protruding from a garment, which one would tear off, and 
then sew up the remaining rent. 

MISHNA: One who tears a thing while enraged, or through 


213 


214 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


grief on account of his dead, and, in general, all who spoil a 
thing are zot culpable. If, however, one destroy a thing with 
the intention to mend it, the prescribed quantity (making him 
culpable) is determined according to the prescribed quantity of 
the act by which it is mended. The prescribed quantity of wool 
when being washed, carded, dyed or spun is a thread the length 
of a double sit; * in the weaving the prescribed quantity for wool 
is the breadth of one sit. 

GEMARA: There is a contradiction: We have learned in 
a Boraitha: One who tears a thing while in a rage, or through 
grief, or through mourning for the dead, is culpable, and 
although he desecrates the Sabbath, the duty of tearing (or- 
dained in cases of mourners for the dead) is fulfilled. This 
presents no difficulty. The Boraitha treats of the case of a 
man who tore his garment on account of the death of one on 
whose account it was his duty to tear his garment, while the 
Mishna treats of the case of a man who did not do so for duty’s 
sake, but on account of a death of a stranger, and this not being 
his duty, he merely spoiled his garment. How can you say, 
that the Mishna treats of aman who tore his garment on account 
of the death of a stranger; it says distinctly zs dead? Yea, it 
says his dead, but he has such relatives, on whose account he 
need not tear his garment; (though it may be his duty to bury 
them, he being the nearest living relative; and tearing one’s gar- 
ment becomes a duty only in the event of the death of a father, 
mother, son, daughter, brother, or sister). Now, there is no 
contradiction then as far as mourning for the dead is concerned, 
but there surely is as regards one who is enraged? In the Bo- 
raitha he is held culpable and in the Mishna he is not? Here 
also there is no difficulty: The Mishna’s statement is in accord 
with R. Simeon’s decree, who holds, that one is not culpable of 
performing a deed not for its own sake, while the Boraitha is in 
accord with the opinion of R. Jehudah, who holds one culpable 
of performing work even wot for its own sake. But you have 
heard that R. Jehudah’s opinion only applied to an act by which 
a thing was mended? Did you also hear that he decreed thus 
in the case of where a thing was destroyed? Said R. Abhin: 
‘‘ This is also a case of mending, because it relieves the man’s 





* The length of a sit is the distance between the first and middle finger of the 
hand when stretched taut. A double sit is the distance between the thumb and fore- 
finger when stretched farthest apart. 


TRACT SABBATH. 215 


mind; and while he may spoil the garment at the same time he 
abates his fury.’’ Is such action permitted? Have we not 
learned that R. Simeon ben Elazar said in the name of ’Hilpha 
bar Agra, quoting R. Johanan ben Nuri: ‘‘ He who tears his gar- 
ments in his fury, or he who breaks his vessels, or he who throws 
away his money while in a rage, shall be regarded in your eyes 
as a worshipper of idols, because such is the custom of the mis- 
leader: To-day he says to one, ‘ Do so,’ to-morrow ‘ Do some- 
thing else,’ until he tells one to go and worship idols and the 
man does so.’’ R. Abhin added to this: “‘ Where can a Scrip- 
tural passage be found prohibiting this? [Psalms Ixxxi. Io]: 
‘There shall not be among thee a foreign god; nor shalt thou 
bow thyself down to any strange god.’ This means that no 
foreign god (misleader) shall be in thy heart, because it says 
Becho (in thee). The latter part of the verse infers, that if he 
allows the misleader to dwell in his heart it will bring him to 
bowing down to idols.’’ Such action is permitted only when a 
man is not in an actual fury, but wishes to appear as if enraged 
in order to command obedience (from his family), as R. A’ha bar 
Jacob used to do; viz.: ‘‘ When he wanted to show displeasure 
at the deeds of his family, he would take up a broken vessel and 
shatter it, making his family believe that he was furious and 
was breaking whole vessels.”’ 

Said R. Simeon ben Pazi in the name of R. Jehoshua ben 
Levi, quoting Bar Qapara:* The tears shed by a man on 
account of the death of an upright man are counted by the 
Holy One, blessed be He, and stored in His treasury, as it is 
written [Psalms lvi. 9]: “‘ My wanderings hast Thou well num- 
bered: put Thou my tears into Thy bottle, behold they are num- 
bered by Thee.’’ R. Jehudah in the name of Rabh said: ‘‘ One 
who is slow to mourn the death of a scholar deserves being 
buried alive, as it is written [Joshua xxiv. 30]: ‘And they bur- 
ied him on the border of his inheritance at Thimnah-serach, 
which is on the mountain of Ephraim, on the north side of 
Mount Ga’ash.’ Ga’ash signifies storm, and from this it is 
inferred, that because the people did not mourn the death of 
Joshua the mount stormed and tried to bury them alive.”’ 

Said R. Hyya bar Aba in the name of R. Johanan: ‘‘ One 





* Because mourning for one’s dead is treated of in the last paragraph, the follow- 
ing discussions relating to mourning for upright men in general are held and the 
opinions of the different teachers cited. 


216 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


who is slow to mourn the death of a scholar will not have long 
life. This is in retaliation ; (because he did not mourn the death 
of the scholar, his own death will be hastened), as it is written 
[Isaiah xxvi. 8]: ‘ In measure, by driving him forth, thou striv- 
est with him.’’? R. Hyya bar Aba objected and said to R. 
Johanan: How canst thou say, that one who is slow to mourn 
the death of a scholar will not have long life? Is it not written 
[Judges ii. 7]: ‘‘ And the people served the Lord all the days of 
Joshua, and all the days of the elders, that lived many days 
after Joshua, who had seen all the great deeds of the Lord, 
which he had done for Israel’’? R. Johanan answered: = EbOu 
Babylonite! Does the verse say, that lived many years? It 
only says many days!’’ Now, according to R. Johanan’s argu- 
ment, does the verse [Deut. xi. 21]: ‘In order that your days 
may be multiplied, and the days of your children,” etc., also 
mean days and not years? In this verse it fs different. Where 
a blessing is conferred days and years are meant. 

R. Hyya bar Aba said again in the name of R. Johanan: “‘ If 
one brother die, let the remaining brothers take care that they 
do not die. Or if a member of a society die, let the other mem- 
bers take care that ¢hey die not.’’ This means: if the best one 
among them die; another says, on the contrary, if the least one 
among them die. 

‘The prescribed quantity of wool,” etc. R. Joseph showed 
the extent of a double sit as being twice the distance between 
the fore and the middle finger when spread out, and R. Hyya 
bar Ama showed its extent as being the distance between the 
thumb and the forefinger when spread out. 

MISHNA: R. Jehudah said: ‘‘ One who chases a bird into 
a bird-tower or a deer into a house is culpable.’’ The sages 
said: ‘‘ One who chases a bird into a bird-tower, a deer into a 
house, yard, or into a menagerie, is culpable.’’ Said R. Simeon 
ben Gamaliel: ‘‘ Not all menageries are equal. Following is the 
rule: Where another chase would be necessary (to catch the 
deer) one is not culpable; where no further chase is necessary, 
one zs culpable.”’ 

GEMARA: The rabbis taught: One who caught a blind or 
a sleeping deer is culpable, but if the deer is lame, sick or old he 
is not culpable. Said Abayi to R. Joseph: ‘‘ What difference 
is there between the two?’’ Answered R. Joseph: ‘* A blind or 
a sleeping deer, as soon as touched, would attempt to escape, 
whereas a lame or a sick animal could not do this.” Have we 


TRACT SABBATH. 217 


not learned in a Boraitha, that one who caught a sick deer 
is culpable? This presents no difficulty. The rabbis refer 
to a deer sick with fever (when it was impossible for it to 
move), while the Boraitha refers to sickness arising from over- 
exertion. 

MISHNA: If a deer run into a house and one lock (the 
doors) behind the deer, he (the man) is culpable. If two men 
lock (the doors) both are free. If one of them could not lock 
(them) himself and doth did s0, they are both culpable. R. 
Simeon declares them free. If one sit down at the entrance of 
the house without filling it up and another sit down beside him, 
thus filling up the gap, the latter is guilty. If the former sat 
down at the entrance and filled it up, and another came up and 
sat beside him, the former, even if he got up and walked away, 
is culpable, and the latter free; for this is the same as if one 
locked his house to preserve its contents and a deer were on the 
inside. 

GEMARA: R., Jeremiah bar Aba in the name of Samuel 
said : One who catches a lion on the Sabbath is not culpable until 
he brings him into his cage. 

R. Aba said in the name of R. Hyya b. Ashi, quoting Rabh: 
“If a bird flew under a man’s coat-skirt, the man may keep it 
there until dark.’’ R. Na’hman b. Itz’hak objected: From the 
above Mishna, ‘‘ If a man sat down at the entrance and filled it 
up, and another came up and sat beside him, the former, even if 
he got up and walked away, is culpable and the latter is free,”’ 
would we not assume, that the man is free (z.e., he need bring 
no sin-offering) but he should not have done it in the first 
place? Nay; it means he is free and may do so to commence 
with. This seems to be borne out by the latter part of the 
Mishna, viz.: ‘‘ For this is the same as if one locked his house 
to preserve its contents and a deer were on the inside.’’ It is 
certainly allowed to close the house on a Sabbath and hence, 
being the same as locking the house, it is allowed in the first 
place. 

Said Samuel: ‘‘ At all times when it is taught, that one is not 
culpable of performing work on the Sabbath, it is meant that, 
while he is not culpable, he must not perform such work to com- 
mence with, excepting in the three following instances: One of 
the three has just been mentioned (concerning the deer); the 
second is, when one lances a wound on the Sabbath; if the 
intention is to extract the pus contained in the wound, he is not 


218 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


culpable, and may do so in the first place; as we have learned in 
a following Mishna, that a sewing needle may be used to remove 
a splinter from the flesh; the third is, when one catches a snake 
on the Sabbath and he did so in order to escape being bitten, he 
is not culpable and may do so to commence with, as we have 
learned in a preceding Mishna, that one may put a vessel over a 
serpent, in order to escape being bitten.”’ 


CHAPTER. XIV. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE CATCHING OF REPTILES, ANIMALS 
AND BIRDS. 


MISHNA: One who catches or wounds any one of the eight 
kinds of reptiles enumerated in the Scriptures (Lev. xi. 29-30, 
viz.: the weasel, the mouse, the tortoise, the hedgehog, the 
chameleon, the lizard, the snail and the mole) is culpable; one 
who wounds worms or any other kind of reptiles (not enumer- 
ated above) is free. One who catches them for a purpose is 
culpable; he who does so without the intention (to use them) is 
free. He who catches such animals or birds as are within his 
domain is free, he who wounds them is culpable. 

GEMARA: From the teaching of the Mishna that the rep- 
tiles (enumerated above) must not be wounded, it is evident 
that such reptiles must be possessed of a skin (which can be 
wounded). According to whose opinion is this? Said Samuel: 
“This is according to the opinion of R. Johanan ben Nuri; for 
he so stated (in Tract Chulin). Rabba bar R. Huna, however, 
in the name of Rabh said: It may also be assumed that the 
Mishna is in accord with the rabbis, who disagree with R. 
Johanan ben Nuri only where defilement is concerned, but who 
agree with him as to Sabbath. And as regards the Sabbath 
they (the rabbis) do not disagree with R. Johanan. Have we 
not learned in a Boraitha, that one who caught one of the eight 
kinds of reptiles enumerated in the Scriptures, or who wounds 
them, is culpable and that this applies only to such reptiles as 
have skins, and only such a wound is called incurable which has 
been produced by the blood clotting in the skin and remaining 
there, even when no blood came to the surface? R. Johanan 
ben Nuri, however, states, that all the eight reptiles enumerated 
in the Scriptures have skins (and therefore one who wounds 
any of them is culpable; hence we see that they disagree even 
as regards the Sabbath). Said R. Ashi: The first Tana of the 
mentioned Boraitha, at variance with R. Johanan, is R. Jehu- 
dah, who stated, that there are among the eight such as have no 

219 


220 . THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


skin; but the other rabbis, who differ with R. Johanan, where 
defilement is concerned, do xot disagree with him in regard to 
Sabbath. Then why is it stated, that ‘‘ R. Johanan ben Nuri, 
however, states, etc.,’’ as if he opposed the rabbis? Read: 
‘‘ Thus states R. Johanan ben Nuri and his opponents.”’ 

‘‘ Or any other reptiles.’ UHow is it, if one kills them? Is 
he culpable ? The Mishna must be understood that if one only 
wounds them he is zof culpable, but if he kills them he zs cul- 
pable ? According to whose opinion is this? Said R. Jeremiah: 
‘‘ This is according to the opinion of R. Eliezer, as stated in the 
first chapter’’ (page 22). R. Joseph opposed this: ‘ Thou 
sayest, according to the opinion of R. Eliezer? The rabbis 
only differ with R. Eliezer when such reptiles as are incapable 
of breeding are concerned (for then they are not considered as 
actual living beings); but as to reptiles that are capable of 
breeding, they also agree, that one who kills them (on the Sab- 
bath) is culpable (because that would be taking life, and taking 
life is prohibited on the Sabbath). 

‘One who catches them for a purpose ts culpable ; he who does 
so without any intention (to use them) is free.’’ According to 
whose opinion is this teaching? Said R. Jehudah in the name 
of Rabh: It is according to the opinion of R. Simeon, who 
states, that any work not committed for its own sake does not 
make one culpable. 

Samuel said: ‘‘ One who takes a live fish out of the water, is 
culpable as soon as a part of the fish as large as a Sela has 
become dry (because then the fish cannot live).’’ Said R. Jose 
bar Abhin: Samuel means to say, that he is not culpable unless 
a place as big as a Sela become dry under its fins, and not on its 
body. 

Mar bar Hamduri in the name of Samuel said: “‘ If one 
thrust his hand into the entrails of an animal and displaced a 
foetus, that may have been there, he is culpable.’’ Why so? 
Said Rabha: Mar bar Hamduri explained this to me as fol- 
lows: Did not R. Shesheth say, that if a man tore out flax 
from among the thorns surrounding it, he is culpable, because 
he removed a thing whence it grew? So also in this case he 
is culpable because he displaced the foetus whence it grew. Said 
Abayi: The same is the case with one who tore out a mushroom 
which grows near a vessel filled with water, because he removed 
an object whence it grew. R. Oshiyah objected: Did we not 
learn that one who tears out a thing from a flower-pot, which is 


TRACT SABBATH. 221 


not perforated, is not culpable, but from a perforated flower-pot 
he is culpable. Why should he be culpable in this case? Be- 
cause a thing does not grow ina flower-pot which is not perfo- 
rated, as a rule; but in this case it grows in its usual way. 

‘“He who catches such animals or birds as are within his 
domain,”’ etc. R. Huna said: “‘ It is allowed to write Tephillin 
on the skin of a bird which is ritually clean.’’ Said R. Joseph: 
‘“ What would he inform us? That a bird has askin? This is 
taught in the Mishna, for it says, he who wounds a bird is cul- 
pable.’’ Said Abayi to R. Joseph: ‘“‘ He informs us of a very 
important matter. From the Mishna we would simply know 
that the bird, having a skin, must not be wounded, but we might 
think, that such a skin, being porous, must not be used for 
Tephillin. Hence he informs us, that it may also be used 
for Tephillin, as it was said in Palestine that pores which do 
not permit of ink soaking through cannot be considered as 
pores. 

Mar the son of Rabhina asked of R. Na’hman bar Itz’hak: 
“Is it allowed to write Tephillin on the skin of a fish which is 
ritually clean?’’ R. Na’hman answered: ‘‘ This can only be 
decided by Elijah; when he comes again, he will decide whether 
it is allowed or not.”’ 

Samuel and Qarna were sitting on the banks of Lake Malka. 
Samuel noticed that a ship was struggling with the rough 
waters and a man was suffering in consequence. Said Samuel to 
Qarna: “‘ It seems to me, that a great man is coming from Pal- 
estine and that he is sick at the stomach. Go and see what ails 
him.’’ He went and found Rabh on the ship, and asked him: 
‘“ Whence do we know that Tephillin may be written only upon 
the skin of a ritually clean animal ?’’ Rabh answered: “‘ It is 
written [Exod. xili. 9]: ‘In order that the law of the Lord shall 
be in thy mouth,’ which means, that the Law shall be written 
only on such a thing as thou mayest take into thy mouth.” 
Qarna asked him again: ‘‘ How do we know that blood is red ?”’ 
Rabh answered again: ‘‘ Because it is written [II Kings iii. 22]: 
‘ The Moabites saw the water at a distance as red as blood.’ ’”’ 
(In the meantime Rabh felt that Qarna was quizzing him.) He 
asked him, ‘‘ What is thy name?’’ He answered: ‘‘ Qarna.’’ 
Said Rabh: “A Qarna (thorn) be in thy eyes!’’ Finally Samuel 
took Rabh to his own house, gave him barley-bread, small fishes, 
milk and such things as tend to produce looseness of the 


bowels, but did not show him the place to excrementize in. So 
VOL. 11.—3 


222 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Rabh cursed him and said: ‘‘ May the one who wishes to make 
me suffer, not be able to rear his children.’’ So it was. 

The rabbis taught: It is allowed to write Tephillin on the 
skins of (ritually) clean animals and creatures, also upon the 
skins of such as died a natural death and were not slaughtered, 
and it is an ordinance (instituted) by Moses at Sinai, that the 
Tephillin are wound in the hairy hide of such animals, whence 
the skin may be taken, and are sewed with the veins of such 
animals; but it is not allowed to write Tephillin on the skins of 
(ritually) unclean animals and creatures, whether such animals 
were slaughtered or naturally expired. This question was 
asked by a Bathusee of R. Joshua of the city of Garsi. 
‘“Whence do we know that Tephillin must not be written on 
the skin of an unclean animal ?’’ ‘‘ From the passage [Lev. 
xiii. g]: ‘In order that the law of the Lord shall be in thy 
mouth,’ which means, that the Law shall be written only on 
such a thing as a man may put into his mouth.’’ ‘‘ According 
to thy argument,’’ said the Bathusee, ‘‘ Tephillin should not be 
written on the skin of a (ritually) clean animal, that died a nat- 
ural death (because it must not be eaten also).’’ Answered R. 
Joshua: ‘‘ I will give thee an instance of two men, who incurred 
the death penalty. One was duly executed, while the other 
died at the moment that he reached the gallows. Which is 
preferable ? Certainly the natural death. In this case also, why 
should the skin of the animal that died a natural death not be 
used for writing the Tephillin thereon ?’’ ‘‘ According to that, 
then,’’ said the Bathusee, “‘ why should it not be eaten also ?’’ 
Answered R. Joshua: ‘“‘ It is written [Deut. xiv. 21]: ‘ Ye shall 
not eat anything that dieth of itself,’ and thou wouldst that it 
should be eaten.’’ Answered the Bathusee: ‘‘ Kalos’’ (Greek 
Kaos = nice, well). 

MISHNA: It is prohibited to prepare brine on Sabbath, but 
the making of salt water, in order to dip one’s bread into it, or 
to use for seasoning other dishes is permitted. Said R. Jose: 
Is this not brine? (What is the difference ?) be it more or less 
salted ? Only the following kind of salt water may be made: If 
oil is first put into the water or into the salt. 

GEMARA: How should the Mishna be understood? Said 
R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel: ‘‘ It is not permitted to 
make a great deal of salt water, but a little may be made.”’ 

Said R. Jose: Is this not brine? Be it more or less salted.” 
The schoolmen asked : ‘‘ Does R. Jose, by making that state- 


TRACT SABBATH. 22% 


ment, mean to say that both should be prohibited or that both 
be allowed ?’’ Said R. Rabba and also R. Johanan: “‘ R. Jose 
meant to say, that both should be prohibited.’’ We have also 
learned this in a Boraitha: ‘‘ One shall not make a great deal of 
salt water in order to put it into a Gistar (a large vessel) filled 
with things requiring a soaking; but he may make a little salt 
water to dip his bread into it or use it for seasoning other dishes. 
Said R. Jose: ‘ Because one is more and the other less salted the 
former should be prohibited and the latter should be permitted ; 
then one might say that a greater act of labor should be prohi- 
bited and a smaller one permitted ? Therefore, I say, both are 
not allowed, but it becomes permissible, if oil is put into the 
water or into the salt, the main thing is that one should not mix 
water and salt to commence with.’ ”’ 

R. Judah bar Haviva taught: ‘‘ One shall not make salt 
water very strong.’’ What does he mean by “ very strong’’ ? 
Rabba and R. Joseph bar Aba both said: ‘‘If one put an egg 
into the water and the egg float it is strong salt water.’’ How 
much salt must be used for such water? Said Abayi: ‘‘ Two- 
thirds salt and one-third water.’’ For what purpose can that 
be used? For fish-brine. 

The same Judah b. Haviva taught: ‘‘ One must not salt 
pieces of radishes and eggs on the Sabbath.’’ R. Hizkyah in 
the name of Abayi said: ‘‘ Salting radishes is not allowed, but 
salting eggs is.’’ 

The same Judah b. Haviva taught: ‘If citrons, radishes 
and eggs are eaten without the peel (in the case of an egg, the 
yolk without the white), they remain in the stomach.”’ 

Rabhin walked behind R. Jeremiah on the banks of the sea 
of Zidon. Rabhin asked R. Jeremiah: ‘‘ Is it allowed to wash 
one’s self in this water on Sabbath ?’’ R. Jeremiah said: ‘* Yes, 
it is.’’ Asked Rabhin again: ‘‘ How is it if a man who is bath- 
ing in this water, opens and closes his eyes, so that the water has 
access to the eyes?’’ Answered R. Jeremiah: “‘ I never heard 
of just such a case, but of one similar to it. I heard R. Zera 
say at one time in the name of R. Mathne, another time in the 
name of Mar Ugba, both of whom said, that the father of Sam- 
uel differed with Levi and that one of them said, that pouring 
wine oz the eyes as a remedy is allowed but pouring wine zxZo 
the eyes is not allowed, while the other said that the saliva of a 
man who had not broken his fast is a remedy for the eyes and 
must not even be put on the eyes; but Mar Ugqba in the name 


224 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


of Samuel said: A man may soak a medicament for the eyes on 
Friday in water and may then use the water on Sabbath with 
impunity.’ 

Bar Levayi was standing before Mar Ugqba, and saw the 
latter opening and closing his eyes, so that the medicinal water 
may have access to them. Said he to Mar Uqba: *’ So much 
Mar Samuel did certainly not permit!”’ 

R. Yanai sent to Mar Uqba a request: ‘‘ Let master send us 
the eye-salve prescribed by Samuel for sore eyes.’’ Mar Uqba 
answered: ‘‘I send it to you, so that you do not think me par- 
simonious, but Samuel said, that bathing the eye in cold water 
in the morning and bathing the hands and feet in warm water 
at night is better than any medicine for the eye in the world.”’ 
The same we have learned in a Boraitha: by R. Muna in the 
name of R. Jehudah. 

The same R. Muna used to say: ‘‘ As soon as a man rises 
and his hand touches his eye, nose, mouth, ear or a vein, it had 
better be chopped off. The same should be done with a hand 
that touches a pitcher used for beer, before it (the hand) is 
washed, because such a hand causes blindness, deafness and 
bad odors.”’ 

We have learned: R. Nathan said: ‘‘ The eye is (like) a 
princess and it hurts her to be touched by a hand that has not 
been washed three times.’’ R. Johanan says: ‘‘ Puch (a pre- 
cious stone or a certain kind of paint *) applied to the eye, stills 
its wrath, dries its tears and causes its lashes to grow.” 

Mar Ugqba said: ‘‘ One who (accidentally) injured his hand 
or foot so that blood flowed (on the Sabbath) may steep them 
in wine in order to stop the flow, with impunity.’’ The school- 
men asked: ‘‘ May he do this in vinegar also?’’ Said R. Hillel 
to R. Ashi: ‘‘ When I attended the school of R. Kahana, it was 
said, that it is not allowed in vinegar.’’ Said Rabha: ““ And 
the men of the city of Me’hutza, who are very delicate, are 
generally cured by wine the same as other people are by 
vinegar.” 

It happened, that Rabhina came to the house of R. Ashi and 
saw the latter, having had his foot trodden upon by an ass, soak- 
ing it in vinegar. Said Rabhina to him: ‘* Does not the Master 
coincide with R. Hillel, who said, that soaking in vinegar is not 
allowed?’ R. Ashi answered: ‘‘ With a wound on the instep 





* See II Kings ix. 30, Isaiah liv. 11 and I Chronicles <xix, 2. 


TRACT SABBATH. 225 


of the foot and the back of the hand it is different, because R. 
Ada b. Mathne said in the name of Rabh, that a wound on the 
back of the hand and on the instep of the foot is equal to an 
internal wound and the Sabbath may be desecrated on its 
account.’’ 

The rabbis taught: ‘‘ One may wash his body in the waters of 
Gror, Chamtan, Essia and Tiberias (all of which are salt waters), 
but it is not allowed to bathe one’s self in the Great Sea and not 
in water used for soaking flax, also not in the sea of Sodom.’’ 
Is this not contradictory to what we have learned in the Bora- 
itha, viz.: ‘‘ One may bathe in the Tiberias and in the Great 
Sea, but not in water used for soaking flax and in the sea of 
Sodom.’’ This presents a difficulty; for in the Boraitha bathing 
in the Great Sea is permitted, while the rabbis prohibit it. 
Said R. Johanan: There is zo difficulty. One Boraitha is in 
accordance with the opinion of R. Meir, while the other is in 
accord with the opinion of R. Jehudah (who differ in Tract 
Mikva’ath, Chapter V., Mishna 6). R. Na’hman bar Itz’hak 
opposed this, and said: ‘‘ They differ only as regards defilement, 
but have ye heard that they also differ concerning the Sabbath ?”’ 
Hence R. Na’hman bar Itz’hak explained this otherwise. He 
said, that the Boraitha which does not permit bathing in the 
Great Sea refers to one who stays in the water some length of 
time (and it is obvious that this is done on account of his 
health). Now, if we say, that the one Boraitha refers to a man 
who stays in the water for some time, we must assume, that the 
other Boraitha refers to one who does not stay long, and if this 
is so, why should not the one (who does not stay long) be per- 
mitted to bathe even in the water used for soaking flax? Have 
we not learned in another Boraitha: ‘‘ One may bathe in the 
Tiberias, in flax-water or in the sea of Sodom, even if his head 
be scrofulous, provided he does not stay long in the water’’ ? 
Therefore we must explain, that the difficulty existing between 
the two former Boraithas concerning the Great Sea is: that the 
one prohibiting bathing in the Great Sea refers to bad water 
which is not usually used for bathing, while the other refers to 
the good water generally used by bathers and in both the case 
refers to one who stays in the water for some time. 

MISHNA: It is not allowed to eat Greek hyssop (a remedy 
for worms) on the Sabbath, because it is not food for healthy 
people. It is allowed, however, to eat yoeser (wild rosemary) 
and to drink shepherd-blossom (tea, an antidote for poisonous 


226 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


beverages). It is permitted to partake of all usual eatables and 
beverages on the Sabbath as medicaments with the exception 
of tree-water (water of a certain spring) and root-tea (a compound 
of gum, herbs, and powdered roots), because the two latter serve 
only as aremedy for jaundice. At the same time it is permitted 
to drink tree-water to quench one’s thirst, and one may anoint 
himself with root-oil but not as a remedy. 

GEMARA: ‘‘/t is allowed, however, to eat wild rosemary,” 
etc. For what purpose is it eaten? To drive out worms in 
one’s liver. What is it eaten with? With seven white dates. 
What does the illness (requiring this remedy) arise from ? From 
the eating of meat broiled over live coals and the drinking of 
water immediately after the eating on an empty stomach or 
from eating fat meat, beef, nuts or Rapa-twigs when eaten on 
an empty stomach and immediately washed down with water. 

The mother of R. A’hadboy b. Ami made a remedy for a 
man who had imbibed poison of an adder by cooking laurel 
leaves in a cupful of beer, giving it to the man to drink, then 
clearing out the coals from a burning hearth, placing a brick on 
the hearth and making him sit on that brick until the poison 
left the man in the shape of a green fern. R. Ivia said, that she 
did not cook the laurel leaves in beer but in a quarter lug of milk 
of a white goat. 

One who swallowed a (small) snake should eat kostos (an 
Indian root of which a precious salve was made, called in the 
Bible onycha) in salt and should run three miles. R. Simeon 
b. Ashi once saw a man who had swallowed a snake, so he dis- 
guised himself as a Persian horseman, called to the man, com- 
pelled him to eat kostos with salt, then chased him for three 
miles. In consequence of fright the man then vomited the 
snake piece by piece. 

One who was bitten by a snake should get a bearing (female) 
ass, tear her open, take out the foetus, and apply it to the 
wound. 

One who was encircled by a snake should run to the water, 
take a basket, place it over the snake’s head, and as soon as the 
snake winds itself around the basket, throw it into the water 
and escape. 

One who is pursued by a snake should, if he is in company 
of a friend, jump on the friend’s back and have the friend carry 
him at least four ells so as to hide the scent of his footsteps, 
or, if alone, should jump over a stream or pond of water. At 


oad 


TRACT SABBATH. 227 


night he should place his bed on four empty casks, then tie four 
cats to the casks, and sleep in an unroofed space. He should 
also place a lot of twigs and dry branches in front of his bed, 
so that if the snake glide among them they will rustle, in which 
event the cats will hear the noise and devour the snake. If 
one is pursued by a snake, he should run to a sandy place, where 
it is hard for a snake to glide. 

“Tt ts permitted to partake of all usual catables,’’ etc. 
What does the Mishna mean to add by the word “‘ all’’? A milt, 
which is good for the teeth (although it is bad for a weak stom- 
ach), or bran, which is good for the stomach (but bad for the 
teeth). What does the Mishna mean to add by the word “‘ all,”’ 
referring to beverages? Water of Izlat (Kaffir-corn) boiled with 
vinegar. 

‘* With the exception of tree-water.’’ We have learned in a 
Boraitha: ‘‘ With the exception of prickly water.’’ One who 
teaches prickly water does so because the water pricks the gall, 
and one who teaches tree-water refers to water running out of 
two trees? What does he mean by this? Said Rabba bar 
Brona: ‘‘ There are two date-trees in Palestine that are called 
Thalai, and between them is a spring of water; the first cup of 
this water produces a weak sensation in the stomach, the second 
cup purges and the third leaves the stomach as clear as when 
imbibed.’’ Said Ula: ‘‘ I drank the Babylonian beer with better 
effects than that tree-water, but it is only then effective if 
drunk for the first time in forty days. R. Joseph said: “‘ The 
water called prickly water above is Egyptian beer, which is one 
third barley, one third wild saffron, and one third salt.’’ R. 
Papa said: It is one third wheat, one third wild saffron, and 
one third salt, and it should be drunk between Passover and 
Pentecost, when it will relieve constipation and stop diarrhcea. 

‘‘ And root-tea.’’ What is root-tea? Said R. Johanan: It 
is made of Alexandrian gum, alum, and garden saffron, each 
the weight of one Zuz, and ground together. To one who 
suffers with too frequent menstruation, three cups of this tea 
should be given in wine, and she will not be barren. For jaun- 
dice two cups are to be administered, in beer, but the patient 
will be barren ever after. May this be done? Have we not 
learned in a Boraitha: Whence do we know that castrating a 
man is prohibited ? From the passage [Lev. xxii. 24]: “‘ And 
in your land shall ye not make the like.’’ Which means, ye 
shall not do this on your own bodies. So said R. Hanina? 


228 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


This is said only in reference to one who has the intention of 
making one a eunuch, but not with reference to one who admin- 
isters the remedy for jaundice, and incidentally makes one impo- 
tent; as R. Johanan said: ‘‘ One who wishes to castrate a cock 
shall cut his comb, and thus the cock will become impotent.’’ 
Did not R. Ashi say, that a cock whose comb is cut off is not 
rendered impotent thereby, but, being very proud, will have no 
more coition with hens on that account? Were he actually ren- 
dered impotent, it would not be allowed to remove his comb, 
for it is written [ibid.]: ‘‘ And in your land shall ye not make the 
like.’’ It is allowed to give a man two cups of root-tea for 
jaundice, providing he was already impotent. But even this is 
prohibited (in Menachoth 56)! Say rather it may be given to a 
woman who is not subject to the command of bearing children. 

MISHNA: One who suffers with toothache must not gargle 
vinegar for it, but he may dip something in vinegar and apply it, 
and if the pain is relieved thereby, he need have no fear of the 
consequences. One who has pains in his loins must not rub 
them with wine or vinegar, but -may anoint them with oil; not 
with rose-oil, however. Children of princes may anoint their 
wounds even with rose-oil, because it is their wont even on 
week-days to anoint themselves with rose-oil. R. Simeon said: 
“ All Israelites must be considered as children of princes.’’ 

GEMARA: R. Aha bar Papa asked R. Abuha concerning 
the following contradiction : ‘‘ The Mishna teaches, that one who 
has a toothache must not gargle with vinegar, implying thereby, 
that vinegar is a remedy for toothache, and still we find in the 
passage [Proverbs x. 26]: ‘As vinegar is to the teeth, and as 
smoke is to the eyes.’’’ This presents no difficulty. The 
Mishna refers to an injured tooth, whereas the passage refers to 
sound teeth, which are put on edge by vinegar. 

‘Must not gargle vinegar.’’ Wave we not learned in a Bo- 
raitha, that it is not allowed to gargle vinegar and then spit it 
out, but if swallowed afterwards gargling is allowed? Said 
Abayi: Such is also the intent of the Mishna, meaning, if he 
spit out after gargling. 

“One who has pains in his loins,’’ etc. Said R. Aba b. Zabhda 
in the name of Rabh: The law according to the opinion of R. 
Simeon prevails. Shall we assume that Rabh holds with R. 
Simeon? Did not R. Simi bar Hyya say in the name of Rabh, 
that a bung-head tied around with a piece of cloth must not be 
hammered into a barrel on a festival (because the barrel being 


TRACT SABBATH. 229 


full of wine, the cloth will absorb some, and by being pressed 
into the hole the wine absorbed will run out, and wringing a 
thing is not allowed), although the wine runs out of its own 
accord, and not through the intention of the man; but accord- 
ing to R. Simeon this would be permitted ? Where an act is 
concerned which will most certainly be consummated, even with- 
out the agency of man, as the head of a creature being removed, 
death must surely follow, R. Simeon also admits, that it is not 
allowed. We have learned elsewhere, however, explicitly, that 
Hyya bar Ashi said, that Rabh holds according to R. Jehudah, 
and Samuel according to R. Simeon? (How can it be said that 
Rabh holds with R. Simeon ?) Said Rabha: I and the lion of 
our society (z.e., R. Hyya bar Abhin) explained this as follows: 
The ordinance prevails according to R. Simeon, that (rose-oil) is 
allowed, but not for the reason advanced by R. Simeon. R. 
Simeon says, that all Israelites are considered as princes, and 
therefore, even in such places where rose-oil is very costly, one 
may also anoint himself with it; but Rabh says it is allowed, 
because, where “e (Rabh) resided, rose-oil was very cheap (but 
where it is costly it is not allowed). 


CHAPTER XV. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE TYING AND UNTYING OF KNOTS 
ON THE SABBATH. 


MISHNA: Following are the knots for the tying of which 
one becomes culpable. The knot of the camel-drivers (made on 
the guiding-ring) and the knot of the seamen (made on the 
bow of a ship); just as one becomes culpable for tying them, 
so also one becomes culpable for untying them. R. Meir 
said: ‘‘ One does not become culpable for any knots that can be 
untied with one hand.’’ 

GEMARA: What is the meaning of a knot of the camel- 
drivers and a knot of seamen? Shall we assume, that by such a 
knot is meant the one that is tied in attaching the guiding-line 
suspended from the nose-ring of a camel to something else, and 
also the knot made in attaching the hawser of a ship to a cap- 
stan on the dock? (Such knots are not permanent, why should 
the tying of them be prohibited ?) Nay; by that knot is meant 
the one made in attaching the guiding-line to the nose-ring and 
the hawser to the ship itself (both of which are permanent 
knots). 

MISHNA: There are knots on account of which one does 
not become culpable, as in the case of a camel-driver’s or sea- 
man’s knot. A woman may tie the slit of her chemise, the 
bands of her hood, the bands of her girdle, the straps of her 
shoes and sandals; also the bands of leather flasks (filled) with 
wine or oil, and of a pot of meat. R. Eliezer, the son of 
Jacob, says: ‘‘ One may tie a rope in front of cattle, in order 
that they may not escape.’’ One may tie a bucket (over the 
well) with his girdle, but not with a rope. R. Jehudah permits 
this to be done with a rope also. For a rule was laid down by 
R. Jehudah: One is not culpable for any knot which is not per- 
manently fastened. 

GEMARA: Is there not a difficulty in understanding the 
Mishna itself? The first part states, that there are knots on 


account of which one does not become culpable, etc., imply- 
230 


TRACT SABBATH. 231 


ing, therefore, that, while one who ties them does not become 
liable for a sin-offering, at the same time he must not do it to 
commence with. The latter part, however, says, that a woman 
may tie the slit of her chemise, etc., implying, then, that she 
may do it in the first place? The Mishna means: There are 
some knots for the tying of which one does not become culpable, 
as in the case of the knots of the camel-drivers, etc., and they 
are: The knots by means of which the guiding-line is attached 
to the nose-ring, and the knots by means of which the hawsers 
are attached to the ship itself. For tying such knots one does 
not become liable for a sin-offering, but he must not make them 
to commence with (because at times the knot is left on the nose- 
ring or on the ship for some time), and there are other knots 
which may be tied in the first place, such as the slit of a 
woman’s chemise, etc.; what would he inform us? Is it not 
self-evident, that a woman must tie the slit in her chemise. The 
case treated of is where a chemise has two slits, an upper and 
a lower, and it can be put on (over the head) even if the lower 
one is tied. We might assume, then, that only the upper one of 
the slits would be permitted to be tied; he therefore informs us, 
that both the upper and the lower may be tied and untied. 

‘““ The bands of her hood.’’ Is this not self-evident? The 
case is, that the bands of the hood are always tied, and the 
woman slips on the hood without untying or tying the bands, 
and we might assume that for this reason the knot is considered 
permanent; he therefore informs us, that if a hair become entan- 
gled in the hood, the woman may tie and untie the bands. 

The straps of her shoes and sandals,’’ etc. R. Jehudah, 
the brother of R. Sala the Pious, had a pair of sandals, which 
were sometimes worn by him and sometimes by his child. He 
came to Abayi and asked him whether he might tie and untie 
them (on Sabbath). Said Abayi: ‘‘ He who does this uninten- 
tionally becomes liable for a sin-offering.’’ Said R. Jehudah to 
him: ‘If thou hadst said, that one is not culpable for doing 
this, but that it must not be done to commence with, it would 
seem strange to me; thou sayest now, that one is liable for a sin- 
offering.’’ Asked Abayi: ‘‘ Why so?’’ Answered R. Jehu- 
dah: ‘* Because on week-days I sometimes also wear the sandals, 
and (if my child wishes to use them) I untie them and adjust 
them to the child’s foot.’’ Answered Abayi: ‘‘ If such be the 
case, they may be tied or untied (on the Sabbath) to commence 
with.”’ 


232 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


R. Jeremiah was walking behind R. Abuha on unclaimed 
ground, and the band of his sandal having been torn off, he 
asked R. Abuha what to do. R. Abuha told him to take damp 
seaweeds, which an animal can eat (and which may therefore be 
handled on Sabbath), and tie his sandal. 

Abayi stood before R. Joseph in private ground, and the 
band of one of his sandals becoming torn off, he asked R. 
Joseph what to do. Said R. Joseph: ‘‘ Leave thy sandal here 
and walk without it.’’ Asked Abayi: “‘ Wherein does my case 
differ from that of R. Jeremiah ?’’ Answered R. Joseph: “ R. 
Jeremiah’s sandal was torn off in unclaimed ground, where, had 
he left it, it would have been lost, but thine is in my yard and 
will be safe.’’ Said Abayi: ‘‘But the sandal is a perfect vessel; 
for I can put it on my other foot and then it will not fall off. 
Why should I not be permitted to handle it?’’ R. Joseph 
answered: ‘‘ Because we learned elsewhere in regard to Cha- 
litzah that R. Johanan interpreted a Boraitha in accordance with 
R. Jehudah, who says, that if the band of a sandal was torn 
off, the sandal cannot be regarded asa vessel. We must assume, 
therefore, that the ordinance according to R. Jehudah prevails.”’ 

“* Also the bands of leather flasks filled with oil or wine,’’ etc. 
Is this not self-evident ?. The case treated of is where the flasks 
had two mouths, and lest we assume that only one of them 
may be tied and untied, he informs us that both may be tied. 

“And of a pot of meat.’’ Is this not self-evident? The 
Mishna means to state, that even if the pot have an opening at 
the bottom it might be assumed that the knot tied around the 
mouth of the pot is permanent and should not be untied. We 
are informed that it may be untied, nevertheless. 

‘““R. Eliezer, the son of Jacob, said,’ etc. Is this not self-evi- 
dent? The case treated of is where there were two ropes, one 
tied higher up and the other lower. We might assume, that 
because the lower one is tied permanently one may not untie 
it; therefore he informs us that both may be tied and untied. 
Said R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel: ‘‘ The Halakha pre- 
vails according to R. Eliezer ben Jacob.”’ 

‘* One may tie a bucket with his girdle, but not with a rope,” 
etc. What kind of a rope is not permitted? Is it an ordinary 
rope? Why does R. Jehudah permit it ? It remains permanently 
tied? Shall we assume that it refers to the rope of a weaver? 
Why is it not permitted? It will surely be removed, because 
the weaver will need it ? Or is it prohibited simply as a precau- 


TRACT SABBATH. 233 


tionary measure, lest some one tie the bucket with an ordinary 
rope, and R. Jehudah does not entertain this apprehension ? 
Then it is contradictory to the following Boraitha: ‘‘ A rope fas- 
tened to a bucket which became torn, should not be tied into a 
firm knot, but simply tied into a loop.’’ R. Jehudah says: fe 
should be joined together with the owner’s girdle, but it must 
not be tied into a loop.”” This would bea case of where both 
the rabbis and R, Jehudah contradict themselves, There is no 
contradiction at all. As for the rabbis, they hold, that an ordi- 
nary rope may be mistaken for the rope of a weaver, because 
both are called ropes, but a loop cannot be mistaken for a knot, 
because they have different names. As for R. Jehudah, he pro- 
hibits a loop to be made, not because he holds that a loop may 
be mistaken for a knot, but because the loop in this case is equal 
to a knot. 

R. Aba in the name of R. Hyya b. Ashi, quoting Rabh, 
said: ‘‘ One may bring a rope from his house and can tie it to 
the cow, and then fasten it to the crib.”’ 

R. Johanan asked of R. Jehudah bar Levayi: ‘‘ May weaving 
utensils, either upper or lower, be handled on the Sabbath ?”’ 
Answered R. Jehudah: “ Nay; they may not.” “ Why so?”’ 
‘“ Because on week-days they are also never used for any other 
purpose (being too heavy); hence they are always used for 
weaving alone (and therefore must not be handled on Sabbath).”’ 

MISHNA: One may fold his clothes (just removed) even 
four or five times (on the Sabbath). On the sve of Sabbath 
one may prepare his beds for use on the Sabbath, but not at the 
close of Sabbath for use after the Sabbath is gone. R. Ishmael 
says: ‘’ One may arrange his clothes and prepare his beds on the 
Day of Atonement for the Sabbath ; further, the sacrificial tal- 
low left over from the Sabbath may be offered up on the Day of 
Atonement (if the two succeed one another, before the Jewish 
calendar was arranged); but not such as is left over from the 
Day of Atonement on the Sabbath.” R, Agiba said: ‘‘ Neither 
that (tallow) left over from the Sabbath may be offered up on 
the Day of Atonement, nor that of the Day of Atonement on 
the Sabbath,” 

GEMARA: The school of R. Yanai said: The Mishna only 
permits the folding of clothes by one man, but not by two, and 
also only in case the clothes are new, but not if they are old 
(because old clothes are better preserved by folding). New 
clothes must only be folded if they are white clothes, but not if 


234 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


they are colored. White clothes may be folded only if they 
constitute all the garments possessed by the man; but if he had 
others, he must not fold even those, as we have learned ina 
Tosephta: ‘‘ The family of R. Gamaliel did not even fold white 
clothes, because they had others for a change.”’ 

R. Huna said: ‘‘If one have a change of clothes for the 
Sabbath, he should change them; if not, he should at least let 
them down.’’* R. Saphra opposed this: ‘‘ If one let down his 
garments, he will be considered as a vain man.’’ If he does 
this only on the Sabbath and not on week-days, he will not be 
considered vain but simply as one desirous of keeping the Sab- 
bath with due respect, as it is written [Isaiah lviii. 13]: “ And 
honor it by not doing thy usual pursuits.’’ ‘* Honor it” is 
meant to imply that, by wearing different clothes on the Sabbath, 
the Sabbath should be honored, for R. Johanan calls clothes signs 
of honor, and through clothes a man is honored. ‘‘ By not 
doing thy usual pursuits > means that the walk on the Sabbath 
should not be as on week-days [ibid. ibid.]: ‘‘ By not following 
thy own business,’’ means to say, that only thy own business is 
not allowed, but heavenly business is. ‘And speaking (vain) 
words’’: the mode of speaking on Sabbath should not be like 
that on week-days. Speaking is not allowed, but thinking is. 
(All this is perfectly proper, not to dress as on week-days, nor 
to speak as on week-days); but what does a different walk on the 
Sabbath signify? It signifies, that one should not make long 
strides on the Sabbath, as Rabbi asked of R. Ishmael b. R. Jose: 
‘‘May one make long strides on the Sabbath ?’’ Answered 
he: ‘‘ May one do so even on week-days? For I say, that a 
long stride deprives a man of a five hundredth part of the light 
of his eyes. A remedy for this is, however, the drinking of 
the wine over which the benediction is made on the eve before 
the Sabbath.”’ 

It is written [Ruth iii. 3]: ‘‘ Therefore bathe and anoint thy- 
self, and put thy garments upon thee,’’ by which, said R. Ela- 
zar, is meant the Sabbath garments. 

It is written [Proverbs ix. 9]: ‘‘ Give to the wise (instruc- 
tion), and he will become yet wiser.”’ Said R. Elazar: By 
that is meant Ruth the Moabite and the Prophet Samuel of 





* The poor of those days, when at work—.e., on week days—used to roll up their 
long garments in order not to be hindered by them while at work. The rich used to 
wear long garments at all times ; hence the above decree of R. Huna. 


TRACT SABBATH. 235 


Ramah. Naomi said to Ruth: ‘‘ Therefore bathe and anoint 
thyself, and put thy garments upon thee, and go down to the 
threshing-floor,’’ but Ruth did as it is written further [ibid. 6]: 
““And she went down unto the threshing-floor, and did in 
accordance with all that her mother-in-law had commanded her,”’ 
which means, that she first went down to the threshing-floor and 
then dressed herself, in order not to soil her clothes. As for 
Samuel, when Eli said unto him [I Samuel iii. 9]: ‘‘ Go, lie down; 
and it shall be, if he call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, Lord; 
for thy servant heareth,’’ he did at the time as it is written 
[ibid. 10]: ‘‘ And the Lord came, and placed himself, and called 
as at previous times, Samuel, Samuel. And Samuel said, 
Speak, for thy servant heareth,’’ but did not say, ‘‘ Speak, 
Jehovah,’’ as he was told to do by Eli (because, not knowing 
who was speaking, he did not want to speak the Lord’s name in 
vain). 

It is written [Ruth ii. 3]: ‘‘ And she went, and came, and 
gleaned in the field after the reapers.’’ Said R. Elazar: She 
went and came to and fro until she found such men as were fit 
company for her. ‘‘ Then said Boaz unto his young man that 
was appointed over the reapers, Whose maiden is this ?’’ [ibid. 
5]. Was it proper for Boaz to inquire whose maiden she was ? 
We have learned in a Boraitha: He (Boaz) noticed that she was 
very modest, for when gleaning from the sheaves, she did so 
standing if the sheaves were also standing, and if the sheaves 
were on the ground, she did not stoop, lest she reveal some of 
her form, but sat down and gleaned in that position. 

‘ But keep close company with my own maidens’’ [ibid. 8]. 
Was it proper for Boaz to say ‘‘ my own maidens’’? Was it his 
custom to mingle with the women? Said R. Elazar: ‘‘ Because 
Boaz saw that ‘Orpah kissed her mother-in-law; but Ruth 
cleaved unto her’ [ibid. i. 14], he thought, that if she were such 
a woman it would be proper for him to associate with her.”’ 

‘“ And Boaz said unto her, At mealtime come near hither 
(halom) ”’ [ibid. ii. 14]. Said R. Elazar: ‘‘ By the word ‘ halom’ 
(near hither) Boas hinted to her that from her would spring 
the kingdom of David, who used the expression ‘ halom,’ as it 
is written in [II Samuel vii. 18]: ‘ Then went King David in and 
sat down before the Lord, and he said, Who am I, O Lord 
Eternal ? and what is my house, that thou hast brought me as 
far as hitherward (halom) ?’ ”’ 

“And eat of the bread, and dip thy morsel in the vinegar’ 


236 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


[Ruth ii. 14]. ‘‘ From this it can be inferred, that vinegar is 
good for (relieving excessive) heat,’’ said R. Elazar. But R. 
Samuel ben Na’hmeni said: ‘‘ This was also a hint to Ruth, that 
from her would spring forth a son, whose deeds would be sour 
as vinegar, and that was King Menassch.’’ 

‘“ And she seated herself beside the reapers’’ [ibid. ibid. ]. 
Said R. Elazar: ‘‘ Beside the reapers and not between them, 
was also a hint that the kingdom of David would eventually be 
divided.”’ 

‘‘ And he reached her parched corn, and she ate, and was 
satisfied, and had some left.’’ Said R. Elazar: (This is a refer- 
ence to the kingdom of David) ‘‘ Ate at the time of David, 
was satisfied in the time of Solomon, and had some left in the 
time of King Chizkyah.’’ Others say: ‘‘ Ate during the days of 
David and Solomon, was satisfied during the days of Chizkyah, 
and had some left in the time of R. Jehudah Hanassi (a de- 
scendant of David), whose coachman even, according to the 
teaching of the Master, was said to be richer than the Shahur 
(king, shah) of Persia.’’ Ina Boraitha, however, we have learned: 
(This passage does not refer to the kingdom of David but to 
Israel in general). It means: “‘ Israel ate in this life, will be 
satisfied in the times of the Messiah, and shall have some left 
in the world to come.’’ 

R. Hyya bar Aba said in the name of R. Johanan : ‘‘ Whence 
do we know that a change of clothes is a biblical prescription ? a 
Because it is written [Lev. vi. 4]: ‘‘ And he shall take off his 
garments, and put on other garments, and carry forth the ashes 
to without the camp, unto aclean place.’’ This was commented 
upon by the school of R. Ishmael to mean, that the clothes 
worn while cooking for one’s master should not be worn when 
serving the master at table. 

The same teacher said again: A scholar (Talmud-Chacham), 
upon whose clothes a stain can be found, deserves to be put to 
death, for it is written [Proverbs viii. 36]: “* All those that hate 
me love death.’’ Do not read, ‘‘ those that hate me ’’ (mesanai), 
but ‘those that cause others to hate me’’ (masnii) (implying 
that if a stain is noticed on a scholar’s clothes, the whole law is 
held lightly). Rabhina said: ‘“‘ In the Boraitha was taught not 
‘upon whose clothes @ stain can be found,’ but ‘ upon whose 
clothes grease (Rebhad)* is found.’’ They do not differ, how- 





* Rashi interprets the word Rebhad to mean ** semen.” 





TRACT SABBATH, 257 


ever. The former refers to an over-garment, while the latter to 
an under-garment. 

R. Johanan said: Who can be called a scholar trustworthy 
enough to be believed when claiming a lost article, without iden- 
tification, but simply by seeing the article lost and claiming it 
as his own? A scholar who is so particular that, if he happen 
to put on his night-robe wrong side out, he will take the trouble 
to take it off again and adjust it properly. 

R. Johanan said again: ‘‘ Who is the scholar worthy of being 
made the president of a congregation ?’’ The one who, when 
asked concerning an ordinance bearing on any subject, knows 
exactly what to answer, even such ordinances as are contained 
in the Tract Kalah (Kalah is a supplement to the Talmud, which 
is not generally read, and treats of a bride). 

He said again: ‘‘ Who is the scholar that is deserving of 
having his work performed by his fellow-citizens ? The one who 
neglects his own affairs to attend to religious affairs.’’ This 
refers, however, only to one who has lost his subsistence on 
account of his congregational duties. 

Again, R. Johanan said: ‘‘ Who can be called a scholar (Tal- 
mud-Chacham) ? One who can give the interpretation of any 
ordinance in whichever chapter (or tract) that may be shown 
him.’’ What difference does that make? The difference is 
this: If a man is familiar only with the ordinances of a certain 
tract, he may only be competent to be the presiding officer of 
one community, but if he understand them all, he may be made 
the chief of the house of learning in a whole district. 

“ R. [shmael says: ‘ One may arrange hts clothes,’”’ etc. The 
rabbis taught: It is written [Numb. xxviii. 10]: ‘‘ This is the 
burnt-offering of the Sabbath.’’ From this we learn, that we 
may offer up the tallow left over from the Sabbath on the Day 
of Atonement; but one might say, that the fat left over on the 
Day of Atonement may be offered up on the Sabbath also; 
therefore the passage says [ibid. ibid.]: ‘‘ on every Sabbath.”’ 
So says R. Ishmael, but R. Aqiba says, ‘‘‘ This is the burnt- 
offering of the Sabbath on every Sabbath,’ implies, that the fat 
left over from the Sabbath may be sacrificed on a biblical feast- 
day; but one might say, that it may be done also on the day of 
Atonement; therefore the passage says ‘ on every Sabbath.’ ”’ 

The point of difference between R. Ishmael and R. Aqiba is 
as follows: R. Ishmael contends that vow-offerings and volun- 


tary offerings may be brought on feast-days, and therefore the 
VOL, 11.4 


238 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


term ‘‘ every Sabbath’’ cannot refer to feast-days, but does refer 
to the Day of Atonement, whereas R. Aqiba contends that such 
offerings must not be brought on feast-days, and hence “‘ every 
Sabbath’’ implies that the fat left over from the Sabbath may 
be offered up on a feast-day. 

R. Zera or R. Aba said in the name of R. Huna: ‘‘If the 
Day of Atonement fall on a Sabbath, herbs for cooking must 
not be selected on that day.’’ Said R. Mana: This we have 
learned in a Boraitha as follows: ‘‘ Whence do we know that if the 
Day of Atonement fall on a Sabbath herbs must not be selected ? 
Because it is written [Exod. xvi. 23]: ‘A rest, a holy rest is 
unto the Lord to-morrow.’ ’’ Why is the word “‘ rest ’’ repeated ? 
Shall we assume, that no other labor must be performed? This 
is ordained (in Chapter xx. 10): ‘‘ Thou shalt not do any work.”’ 
It must therefore refer to such work as is not really labor, as 
“selecting herbs ’’ (and the passage must refer to a Sabbath on 
which the Day of Atonement happens to fall, because on ordi- 
nary Sabbaths no additional prescription is necessary; but it 
being the Day of Atonement, on which, were it not also Sab- 
bath, such work would be permissible, on account of alleviating 
the sufferings caused by fasting, we might assume that it would 
be allowed also on a Day of Atonement, which occurs on a Sab- 
bath; therefore the passage refers to a Sabbath upon which the 
Day of Atonement happens to fall). R. Hyya bar Aba, how- 
ever, in the name of R. Johanan said: Selecting herbs on a Sab- 
bath concurrent with the Day of Atonement is permissible, and 
the repetition of the word “‘ rest’’ zs on account of the prohi- 
bition of actual labor, and as for there being another ordinance 
to that effect, it is for the purpose of signifying that the trans- 
gressor of this commandment will be punished for the violation 
of both the positive and the negative commandments. 

We have learned in a Boraitha in support of R. Johanan: 
Selecting herbs on a Day of Atonement concurrent with a Sab- 
bath is permissible. Nuts may be cracked and pomegranates 
cleaned after the afternoon prayer, for the purpose of alleviat- 
ing the suffering of the fasting. In the house of R. Jehudah, 
cabbage was prepared, and in Rabba’s house, pumpkins were 
cleaned. Later on Rabba noticed that this was being done even 
before the afternoon prayer; so he told them that a message was 
received from R. Johanan of Palestine that this was pro- 
hibited. 


CHAPTER XVL, 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING ARTICLES WHICH MAY BE SAVED FROM 
A CONFLAGRATION ON SABBATH. 


MISHNA: All sacred scriptures may be saved from a con- 
flagration (on the Sabbath); be such scriptures allowed or not 
allowed to be read on Sabbath. The Scriptures written in any 
language whatsoever must be considered sacred, and brought to 
a safe place, even on a week-day. Why are some (sacred scrip- 
tures) not allowed to be read (on Sabbath)? In order that one 
might not miss the sermons at the school-house. One may save 
the case of the book with the book, the case of the Tephillin with 
the Tephillin, even if money is contained therein. Where must 
such things be taken (for safety) ? Ina closed space surrounded 
by walks. Ben Bathyra says: “‘ Even in a space that has one 
side open.’’ 

GEMARA: It was taught: If the Scriptures were written 
in Aramaic (Targum), or in any other language, they need not 
be saved from a conflagration. So says R. Huna. But R. 
Hisda says: ‘‘ They must be saved.’’ According to the Tana 
who holds, that all of the scriptures may be read on Sabbath, 
there is no difference of opinion between R. Hunaand R. Hisda, 
for the Scriptures must be saved. But, according to the Tana 
who holds, that some scriptures may and others may not be 
read on the Sabbath, R. Huna says, that the latter need not be 
saved, while R. Hisda says they must, in order not to disgrace 
the Scriptures. An objection was made: ‘‘ Our Mishna says, 
that all scriptures, whether allowed to be read on the Sabbath 
or not, or even if written in whatever language, must be saved. 
We must assume, that the readable part of the Scriptures is the 
Prophets and the non-readable part is the Hagiographa, and if 
written in other languages, which are naturally non-readable, 
they must nevertheless be saved. How, then, can R. Huna say, 
that the non-readable need not be saved?’’ R. Huna might 
say: How can this explanation of the Mishna correspond with 
the further ordinance that they “‘ should be brought to a safe 

239 


240 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


place’’? If it says that they must be saved from the conflagra- 
tion, it is self-evident that they must be brought to a safe place ? 
What is the correct interpretation of the Mishna? R. Huna 
interprets it according to his understanding thus: ‘* The read- 
able part of the Scriptures is the Prophets, the non-readable 
part is the Hagiographa, providing they are written in the holy 
language (Hebrew), but if written in other languages they need 
not be saved; but although they need not be saved on the Sab- 
bath, if they lie in an unfit place even on week-days, they must 
be brought into a safe place.’’ R. Hisda interprets the Mishna 
according to his understanding thus: ‘‘ The readable part is the 
Prophets, the non-readable part is the Hagiographa, and al- 
though written in other languages they must also be saved, and 
the term ‘ should be brought to a safe place’ refers even to torn 
pieces of such Scriptures although written in other languages.”’ 

Another objection was made: We have learned in a Bora- 
itha: ‘‘ If they (the Scriptures) are written in Aramaic or any 
other language, they must be saved from a conflagration? Is 
this not contradictory to R. Huna’s opinion? Nay; R. Huna 
may say that the Tana of the Boraitha holds the Scriptures writ- 
ten in other languages to be readable. Come and hear: Scrip- 
tures written in Coptic, Median, old Hebrew, Elamite or Greek, 
although not permitted to be read, must be saved from a con- 
flagration.’’ This is surely a contradiction to R. Huna? R. 
Huna might say: There is a difference of opinion among the 
different Tanaim, as we have learned in the following Tosephta: 
If the Scriptures are written in Aramaic or in any other lan- 
guage, they must be saved from a conflagration, but R. Jose 
says, that they must not. Said R. Jose: It happened that Aba 
’Halafta went to R. Gamaliel the Great in Tiberias, who sat at 
the table of Johanan the Nazuph (also called Ben Nazuph), and 
held in his hand the book of Job in Aramaic, which he was read- 
ing. Said Aba ’Halafta to R. Gamaliel: ‘‘ I remember having 
at one time come to thy grandfather R. Gamaliel, who stood on 
the steps of the corridor of the Temple when a Book of Job in 
Aramaic was brought to him. He told the mason to take the 
book and immure it underneath the stairway.’’ Whereupon the 
later R. Gamaliel also ordered the book he was reading to be 
immured, 

The rabbis taught: The benedictions, which are written in 
Hebrew, or amulets although containing letters of the Holy 
Name and many passages of the Scriptures, must not be saved 


TRACT SABBATH. 241 


from a conflagration, but may be burned up together with such 
letters and passages. From this it was said, that one who writes 
benedictions commits an act equal to burning up the Scriptures, 
as it happened in Zidon: One wrote benedictions, and it was 
told to R. Ishmael. R. Ishmael set forth to investigate the 
matter. As soon as the man saw R. Ishmael approach, he 
threw the writings into a bowl of water. Said R. Ishmael to 
him the following words: ‘‘ The punishment thou wilt receive 
for this latter deed will be greater than that for writing the 
benedictions.’’ 

The Exilarch asked of Rabba bar R. Huna: If the Scriptures 
were written with paint or with dyes and in the holy language, 
may they be saved from a conflagration or not? I ask thee, 
taking in consideration the differences of opinion existing between 
the different Tanaim, for those who hold that Scriptures written 
in Aramaic or any other language must not be saved, what is 
their opinion regarding such as are written in the holy language 
and not with ink? Whereas those who hold that the Scriptures 
in any language must be saved, do they not refer to such as are 
written in ink only, but those written with paint or dye, even if 
written in Hebrew, should also not be saved ? Answered Rabba 
bar R. Huna: ‘‘ No, they must not be saved.’’ Rejoined the 
Exilarch: ‘‘R. Hamnuna taught, in a Boraitha, that they may ?”’ 
Answered Rabba: ‘‘If such was taught in a Boraitha, it must 
beso) 

The rabbis taught: Before the passage [Numb. x. 35]: ‘‘ And 
it came to pass when the ark set forward, that Moses said, 
etc.,’’ and at the close of the next verse, the Holy One, blessed 
be He, made signs (the inverted letter Nun, which must be 
inserted in the Scroll) in order to signify that this is not the 
proper place for the two passages; but Rabbi says, that this is 
out of the question, and that the two verses form a valuable 
book in themselves. We have heard from R. Samuel ben Na’h- 
meni in the name of R. Jonathan, that we have not a Penta- 
teuch but a Septateuch * (z.e., we have not five books of Moses, 
but seven). Would this imply that R. Samuel holds with 
Rabbi and declares that there are seven (because the two verses, 
which form a book in themselves, divide Numbers into two 
books)? Who is the Tana, however, that differs with Rabbi? 
He is R. Simeon ben Gamaliel, for we have learned in a Bora- 





* In the Hebrew introduction to Tract Rosh Hashana this entire argument is 
explained, and we do not deem it advisable to translate it at present. 


242 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


itha: R. Simeon ben Gamaliel says, that these two passages will 
in the future be removed and put in their proper place. Why 
were they put here, then? In order to make a separation 
between the two scourges that befell the Israelites. Which 
was the second scourge? The one that follows immediately 
afterwards [Numb. xi. 1]: ‘‘And it came to pass, that, as the 
people complained in a manner displeasing to the Lord,”’ etc., 
etc. And which was the first? The first was as it is written [ibid. 
x. 33]: ‘‘ And they set forward from the mount of the Lord,”’ 
which, according to R. Hama b. Hanina, means ‘‘and they 
departed from the ways of the Lord.’’ Which is the proper place 
for the two passages ? Said R. Ashi: In Numbers ii. (where it 
is decreed how every man should walk in the wilderness, and the 
end of the chapter stating that every man did as he was com- 
manded, should be followed by those two verses). 

The schoolmen asked: May the blank pieces of the Scroll of 
Laws which had become detached from the Scroll be saved 
from a conflagration on Sabbath or not ? Come and hear: The 
Gilyonim (blank pieces of the Scroll) and the Sadducean books 
need not be saved from the conflagration. They, together with 
the holy names contained in them. Does not the word Gil- 
yonim have reference to the blank pieces of the Scroll? Nay; 
the blank pages of the Sadducean books. How can it mean the 
blank pages of the Sadducean books. Why, it is not even allowed 
to save the Sadducean books themselves ? Perhaps the Boraitha 
means, that the Sadducean books are considered as blank pages, 
and hence must not be saved. 

The text of the Boraitha says further: The Gilyonim and 
the Sadducean books must not be saved from a conflagration; 
R. Jose says, that on week-days the Holy Name must be torn 
out wherever it appears and preserved, and the remainder must 
be burned; but R. Tarphon says: May I bury my children, if 
I would not burn such books together with the Holy Name, 
whenever they reached my hands; for when a man is pursued 
by murderers or by a snake, it were better for him to seek refuge 
in the temple of an idol than to enter the houses of such 
people; for.the idolaters serve their idols because they know not 
God, but the others know God and deny him; they (the latter) 
are referred to by the verse [Isaiah lvii. 8]: ‘‘ And behind the 
doors and the doorposts hast thou placed thy remembrance”’ 
(implying that they remember the Lord very well, but never- 
theless place their memory behind the doors and doorposts). 


TRACT SABBATH. 243 


Said R. Ishmael: In the Scriptures it is even allowed to 
erase with bitter water the Holy Name of God, which was writ- 
ten in a holy cause in order to bring about peace between man 
and wife, a fortiori it should be allowed in the case of those 
people who cause discord and enmity between Israel and the 
Heavenly Father. To them David had reference [in Psalms 
Cxexix. 21, 22): Behold those that hate thee, 1 ever hate, O 
Lord! and for those that rise up against thee do I feel loathing. 
With the utmost hatred do I hate them: enemies are they 
become unto me.”’ So, as they must not be saved from a con- 
flagration, they must also not be saved from the waters, or any- 
thing that might destroy them. 

Joseph bar Hanin asked of R. Abuha: ‘“‘ May the books of 
Be Abhidon be saved?’’ Answered R. Abuha: Yea, nay, I 
really cannot tell. Rabh never went to the Be Abhidon, and all 
the more not to the Be Nitzrephe.* Samuel, however, never 
went to the Be Nitzrephe, but did go to the Be Abhidon. Mar 
bar Joseph said: ‘‘ I am of their society and do not fear them.”’ 
Still it happened at one time that he was in danger on their 
account. 

Ema Shalom, the wife of R. Eliezer, who was also a sister of 
R. Gamaliel the Second, encountered a philosopher in her neigh- 
borhood who was a judge, and had the reputation of being inac- 
cessible to bribery. R.Gamaliel and his sister wished to ridicule 
him and prove that he was accessible to bribery. Ema Shalom 
brought hima golden candle. He asked her what she wanted, so 
she answered: “‘ My father is dead, and I wish to inherit some of 
his possessions.’’ The judge said: ‘‘ Go, I will order that you 
be given your share.’’ Said she: ‘‘ Thou canst not order it so, 
because our law decrees, that wherever there is a son a daughter 
cannot inherit.’’ Answered the judge: ‘‘ Since you Israelites 
are in exile, your law given you by Moses has been revoked, and 
a new law was given you by which daughters may inherit 
equally with sons.’’ On the morrow came R. Gamaliel and 
brought him a Libyan ass, and told him that he did not wish to 
let his sister inherit. Said the judge: ‘‘ After thy sister left I 
consulted the law again, and found that the new law said: ‘I 
did not come to abolish the Mosaic law, neither to increase nor 





* We render these names without translations, as we also do in the case of Gilyo- 
nim, because of the incessant discussions concerning them among Hebrew theo- 
logians, and we do not desire to decide the definite meaning. 


244 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


to diminish it.” Hence it must remain as in the old law, that 
where a son is left a sister must not inherit.’’ Said Ema 
Shalom to the judge: ‘‘ May God make thy light as bright as a 
candle.’’ Said R. Gamaliel to her (in the presence of the 
judge): ‘‘ An ass came along and extinguished thy candle.”’ 

‘“ Why are some (sacred Scriptures) not allowed to be read (on 
the Sabbath) ?’’ etc. Said Rabh: ‘‘It is not allowed to read 
such Scriptures only during the time of the sermons at the 
school-house, but at any other they may be read.’’ Samuel, 
however, said, that even at any other time they must not be 
read, because he holds with R. Nehemiah as we have learned 
in the following Boraitha: ‘‘ Although it was said that the 
Hagiographa should not be read, still they may be discussed 
and lectured upon, and when a quotation must be made, the 
book may be referred to and the quotation read.’’ Said R. 
Nehemiah: ‘‘ Why was it prohibited to read the Hagiographa 
on the Sabbath? In order that it might be said: As it is for- 
bidden to read the Hagiographa, it is all the more so forbidden 
to read ordinary papers.’’ 

““In a closed space surrounded by walls.’’ What is to be 
understood by the term “‘ closed space’’? Said R. Hisda: 
‘“ This refersto a lane surrounded on three sides by walls and 
having on the fourth side two beams. If the lane have three walls 
and two beams it is a closed space, if it have only one beam on 
the fourth side it is an open place, and the Tana of the Mishna as 
well as Ben Bathyra hold in accordance with the opinion of R. 
Eliezer, who decided to that effect elsewhere.’’ Said Rabba to 
R. Hisda: ‘‘ Dost thou call a space surrounded by three walls and 
one beam an open place? If this be so, according to the sages, 
why cannot victuals and beverages also be brought there, not 
alone Scriptures? In my opinion, two walls and two beams, 
one on each side, form a closed space, and two walls with only 
one beam constitute an open space. And the two Tanaim of 
the Mishna are not in accord with R. Eliezer, but with R. Jehu- 
dah, who opposes him (in Tract Erubin).”’ 

Said Abayi to Rabba: ‘‘ And why should not, according to 
thy explanation, victuals and beverages be brought there (for 
safety) in conformity with the opinion of the sages?’’ Said R. 
Ashi, however, ‘‘ The two Tanaim of the Mishna are of the 
opinion of R. Eliezer, and a closed place is formed by three walls 
and one beam, while an open place is made by three walls with- 
out any beam at all; and even according to R. Eliezer, who 


TRACT SABBATH. 245 


requires two beams, it is only for the bringing thither of victuals ; 
but for the safe keeping of the Scriptures, R. Eliezer holds even 
one beam to be sufficient.’’ 

MISHNA: One may save enough victuals to last for three 
meals (on the Sabbath in the event of a conflagration). Such food 
as is fit for human beings may be saved for the use of human 
beings, and such as is fit for cattle may be saved for cattle. 
Howso? Ifaconflagration happen on the eve of Sabbath, one 
may save enough victuals for three meals. If it occur in the 
forenoon of Sabbath, one may save enough for two meals, and 
if it occur in the afternoon of Sabbath one may only save 
enough for one meal. R. Jose, however, says: ‘* One may at all 
times save enough for three meals.”’ 

GEMARA: Let us see! Why should it only be allowed to 
save three meals, or two, or one? (It says, further on, that the 
victuals for the meals are to be brought into such a place as is 
covered by an Erub. In such a place things may be carried, and 
the things themselves may also be handled, then why should one 
not be allowed to save more than enough for three meals ?) Said 
Rabha: Because a man is anxious for his possessions, he might, 
if allowed to save as much as possible, forget about the Sabbath 
and extinguish the fire altogether. Said Abayi to him: ‘‘ We 
have learned previously, that a man upon whose roof a barrel 
filled with victuals becomes broken, may bring another vessel and 
put it underneath the barrel in order that the contents of the 
barrel fall into the vessel, but may not bring another barrel and 
transfer the contents of the broken one into the new, nor may 
he place a new barrel alongside of the other and remove the 
contents of the broken one into the new one by keeling over 
the former and letting its contents drop into the latter, Why 
should he not be allowed to do this? (He is on private ground, 
and the barrel with its contents may be handled ?) If it is pro- 
hibited as a precautionary measure in the manner of the previ- 
ous case, where does the precaution arise ?’’ This latter case is 
also a precautionary measure; for were he allowed to remove the 
contents from one barrel into another, there is fear of his carry- 
ing it through public ground. The text of the Boraitha, how- 
ever, teaches further, that if the man had guests in his house, 
he may remove the contents of the broken barrel into a new 
one, etc. But he may not first remove the contents and then 
call guests, but first call guests and then remove the things; nor 
may he pretend (to call guests), but must actually desire their 


246 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


company. In the name of R. Jose bar R. Jehudah it was said, 
that even calling guests as a pretext is also allowed. 

The rabbis taught: If one had saved (from the fire) fine 
bread, he must not return and save coarse bread, but if he first 
saved the coarse he may return and save the fine. One may 
also save enough on the Day of Atonement in the event of a 
fire (when that day is succeeded by Sabbath) to last him through 
the Sabbath also, but on a Sabbath it is not permitted to save 
enough for the Day of Atonement (if the Sabbath falls on the 
day before), and all the more so is it not allowed if the Sabbath 
precedes a feast-day; nor is it allowed to save on one Sabbath 
for the following Sabbath. 

The rabbis taught: If one forgets bread in an oven, and in 
the meantime the Sabbath sets in, it is allowed to save enough 
bread to last for three meals; and one may say to bystanders, 
‘‘ Come and take out as much as ye need’’; and when taking out 
the bread it should not be done with a baker’s shovel, but with 
some other utensil. R. Hisda said: A man should see that every- 
thing should be prepared on Friday for the Sabbath as early as 
possible, as it is written [Exodus xvi. 5]: ‘‘ And it shall come to 
pass, on the sixth day, when they prepare what they shall have 
brought in,’’ etc., and this means, that as soon as the sixth day 
sets in, preparations for the Sabbath should be begun. 

R. Aba said: ‘‘A man must pronounce the benediction over 
two loaves on the Sabbath,’’ for it is written [ibid. xvi. 5]: 
‘““ Double bread.’’ Said R. Ashi: ‘‘ I noticed the manner in 
which R. Kahana did this: He would hold two loaves, but would 
cut only one, because it is written [ibid. xvi. 18]: ‘ Every man 
according to his eating had he gathered.’’’ R. Zera used to cut 
off the loaf sufficient to last him for the entire meal. Asked 
Rabhina of R. Ashi: ‘‘ Does this not seem gluttonous, to hold 
so large a piece in one’s hand ?’’ Answered R. Ashi: ‘‘ Because 
on week-days such was not his wont, it does not appear glutton- 
ous on Sabbath, and R. Zera did this only in honor of the day.”’ 
R. Ami and R. Assi, if happening to have the same bread used 
in making an Erub, for use on Sabbath, would pronounce the 
benediction over the bread, for they said that because one relig- 
ious duty had been fulfilled with that bread, it should be used 
to fulfil another religious duty.”’ 

How so: If a conflagration,’ etc. The rabbis taught: How 
many meals should a man eat on the Sabbath? Three. R. 
"Hidka said four. Said R. Johanan: Both the rabbis and R. 





TRACT SABBATH. 247 


‘Hidka adduced their opinions from the same passage, as fol- 
lows [Exodus xvi. 25]: ‘‘ And Moses said, Eat it to-day; fora 
Sabbath is this day unto the Lord: to-day ye will not find it in 
the field.’” R. ’Hidka holds that, day being mentioned three 
times, three meals should be eaten during the day and one at 
night, and the rabbis hold that the day includes the night and 
only three meals are required. Our Mishna, however, which 
decrees that only enough for three meals should be saved, does 
therefore not agree with R. ’Hidka. According to whose opin- 
ion, however, will the following Mishna be? (Tract Peah): ‘‘ If 
a poor man have sufficient for two meals, he must not apply for 
another at the public kitchen (where food is distributed), but he 
may apply to the general charity fund. If he have, however, 
sufficient for fourteen meals (for the week) he must not even 
apply to the general charity fund!’’ If the Mishna were of the 
opinion of R. ’Hidka, he should have had sufficient for sixteen 
meals, so as to afford him four meals on the Sabbath, and, 
according to the rabbis, for fifteen meals in order to have three 
meals on the Sabbath? It is therefore neither in accord with 
R. ’Hidka nor with the rabbis. Nay; it is in accord with the 
rabbis, and the poor man should eat his Sabbath-night meal on 
the Sabbath day, so with his Friday-night meal it will make 
three meals on the Sabbath. It may also be said that the 
Mishna holds with R. ’Hidka, and that the poor man should 
leave his Friday meal for the Sabbath. Shall we make the poor 
man then fast on Friday? It would therefore be better to 
hold the Mishna’s opinion to be in accord with R. Aqiba, who 
says, that the poor man should make Sabbath equal to a week- 
day in order not to be forced to rely upon charity. Thus four- 
teen meals are sufficient, and he may eat only two on Sabbath. 

But according to whose opinion is the Mishna (Tract Peah): 
‘’ If a wandering mendicant come to a town, he must be given a 
loaf which can be bought for a Pundian (one forty-eighth of a 
Sela) when the price of flour is one Sela for four Saahs (and the 
sages calculated that such a loaf is sufficient for two meals). If 
he remain over night he must be given lodging, and if he remain 
over Sabbath he must be given three meals for Sabbath.’’ Shall 
we assume, that this Mishna holds with the rabbis and not with 
R. ’Hidka? It might also be in accord with R. ’Hidka if the 
mendicant happen to have one meal with him, he is told to 
eat the one he has and is given three more. Should the mendi- 
cant then depart empty-handed ? Nay; he is also given a meal 


248 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


to take along on the way. What must he be given for lodging ? 
Said R. Papa: Enough to hire a bed and a pillow. 

The rabbis taught: The dishes used on the eve of Sabbath 
may be cleansed for the Sabbath-morning meal. The dishes 
used in the morning may be cleansed for the mid-day meal, and 
those of the mid-day meal for the afternoon; but those of the 
afternoon must not be cleansed until the Sabbath is over. All 
this is said concerning dishes; but glasses, cups, and all drinking 
utensils may be cleansed at any time, because there are no fixed 
times for drinking. 

R. Simeon ben Pazi in the name of R. Jehoshua ben Levi, 
quoting Bar Qapara, said: One who keeps the commandment to 
eat three times on the Sabbath will be rid of three punishments, 
viz.: ‘‘ The tribulations (at the time) of Messiah; the punish- 
ment of Gehenna, and the war of Gog and Magog.’’ From the 
tribulations of Messiah, because the Sabbath is always men- 
tioned as the day, and it is written [Malachi iii. 23]: ‘‘ Behold, I 
send unto you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the day of 
the Lord, the great and the dreadful.’’ From the punishment 
of Gehenna, because it is written [Zephaniah i. 15]: “‘ A day of 
wrath is that day,’’ etc., meaning the Gehenna. From the war 
of Gog and Magog, because it is written [Ezekiel xxxviii. 18]: 
‘“On the day of Gog’s coming.”’ 

R. Johanan said in the name of R. Jose: One who makes the 
Sabbath pleasant will be rewarded with a boundless inheritance, 
as it is written [in Isaiah lviii. 14]: ‘‘ Then shalt thou find delight 
in the Lord; and I will cause thee to tread upon the high places 
of the earth, and I will cause thee to enjoy the inheritance of 
Jacob thy father; for the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it. 
- Not the inheritance of Abraham, concerning whom it is written 
[Genesis xiii. 17]: ‘‘ Arise, walk through the land in the length 
of it and in the breadth of it,’’ etc., and not as in the case of 
Isaac, as it is written [ibid. xxvi. 4]: ‘‘ And I will give unto thy 
seed all these countries,’’ but as it is written of Jacob [ibid. 
xxviii. 14]: ‘‘ And thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth, 
and thou shalt spread abroad to the west and to the east, and 
to the north and to the south.”’ 

R. Na’hman bar Itz’hak said: (The man who makes the Sab- 
bath pleasant) will also be saved the pain of exile, because it is 
written [Isaiah lviii. 14]: ‘‘ And I will cause thee to ride upon the 
high places of the earth,’’ and [Deut. xxxiii. 29]: ‘* And thou 
shalt tread upon their high places.’’ Said R. Jehudah in the 


TRACT SABBATH. 249 


name of Rabh, ‘‘ He who makes the Sabbath pleasant is given 
everything his heart desires,’’ because it is written [ Psalms xxxvii. 
4]: ‘* And delight thyself in the Lord, and he will give thee the 
wishes of thy heart.’’ What is meant by “‘ delight’’? From 
the passage [Isaiah lviii. 13]: “‘If thou call the Sabbath a 
delight,’’ we can adduce that the delight means Sabbath. 

Wherewith should the Sabbath be made pleasant? Said R. 
Jehudah, the son of R. Samuel bar Shilath, in the name of 
Rabh: *‘ With a mess of beets, large fish, and garlic-heads.’’ 
But R. Hyya bar Ashi said in the name of Rabh: ‘‘ Even with 
any dish whatever prepared especially for the Sabbath.’’ What 
does “‘any dish whatever’’ mean? Said R. Papa: ‘‘ Even 
small fish fried in oil.’’ 

R. Jehudah said in the name of Rabh: ‘‘ If the Israelites 
had kept the first Sabbath (after the commandments were given) 
properly, no nation or race on earth could have harmed them. 
For it is written [Exodus xvi. 27]: ‘And it came to pass on 
the seventh day that there went out some of the people to 
gather; but they found nothing.’ And not long afterwards 
Amalek attacked the Israelites.’’ 

R. Johanan said in the name of R. Simeon ben Jochai: ‘“‘ If 
the Israelites were to keep two Sabbaths in succession as they 
should, they would immediately be released from exile, for it is 
written [Isaiah lvi. 6]: ‘Also the sons of the stranger, that 
join themselves unto the Lord, to serve him, and to love the 
name of the Lord, to be unto him as servants, every one that 
keepeth the Sabbath by not violating it, and those who take 
hold of my covenant,’ and immediately afterwards it is written 
[ibid. ibid. 7]: “ Even these will I bring to my holy mountain.’ ”’ 

R. Jose said: ‘‘ May my share in the world to come be with 
those who eat three meals on the Sabbath.’’ Again he said: 
‘“ May my share in the world to come be with those who recite 
Hallel* every day.’’ This is not so. The Master says, that 
he who recites Hallel every day is a blasphemer. Nay; R. 
Jose does not mean Hallel, but Hallelujah. 

R. Jose said again: ‘‘ May my share in the world to come be 
with those who perform their morning devotion as soon as the 
sun begins to rise.’’ Again said he: ‘‘ May my share be with 
those who die of abdominal disease, for the Master said, that 
most of the righteous die of bowel troubles.’’ He also said: 





* Hallel is called the section of the Psalms from Chapter cxiii. to cxix. 


250 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


‘“May my share be with those who die when about to fulfil a 
commandment ; also with those who receive the Sabbath in 
Tiberias and see it out in Zipporias (Tiberias was in a valley and 
Zipporias on a hill); also with those who remain in the houses 
of learning, and not with those who attempt to draw scholars away 
from their studies; also with those who solicit alms but not with 
those who dispense alms; also with those who are suspected but 
are not guilty.’’ Said R. Papa: ‘‘ I have been suspected but 
was not guilty.’’ Said R. Jose: ‘‘ I have gone in unto my wife 
five times and have planted five cedars in Israel.’’ Who are 
they? K. Ishmael, KR. Eliezer, KR. “Halatta, R. Aftiles, and 
R. Mena’hem, all sons of R. Jose. But he also had a son called 
Vradimos? Nay; Vradimos is the same as R. Mena’hem, and 
the reason he was called Vradimos was because his face was as 
beautiful as a rose (Vrad is Aramaic for rose). 

Said R. Jose again: “‘ In all my days the ceiling of my house 
never saw the seam of my undershirt.’’ Again said he: “I 
never acted contrary to the advice of my colleagues. I know 
well that I am not a descendant of priests, but when my col- 
leagues asked me to pronounce a benediction usually said by 
priests, I did so.’’ Again he said: ‘‘ I never said a thing that I 
afterwards repented having said.”’ 

R. Na’hman said: ‘‘ May it be accounted to me (for my 
reward), that I have observed the three meals (in honor of the) 
Sabbath.’’ R. Jehudah said: ‘‘ May it be accounted to me, 
that I have given my prayers preliminary consideration.’’* R. 
Huna, the son of R. Jehoshua, said: ‘“‘ May it be accounted to 
me, that I have never walked four ells with uncovered head.”’ 
R. Shesheth said: ‘‘ May it be accounted to me, that I have ob- 
served the commandment of Tephillin,’? and R. Na’hman said 
again: ‘‘ May it be accounted to me, that I have observed the 
commandment of Tzitzith (showthreads).”’ 

Said R. Joseph to R. Joseph the son of Rabha: “‘ Canst 
thou tell me which commandment thy father observed most 
punctually ?’’ The answer was: ‘‘ The commandment of 
Tzitzith. For it happened one day that my father was ascending 
the stairway, and a thread of his Tzitzith becoming torn off, he 
would not leave his place until a new thread had been brought 
to him and the Tzitzith were mended.”’ 

Said Abayi: ‘‘ May it be accounted to me, that whenever I 





* It is stated elsewhere (in Tract Rosh Hashana) that R. Jehudah prayed only 
once in every thirty days. 


TRAC! SABBAL i: 250 


noticed a young scholar (of my college) had finished a Tract of 
the Talmud, I gave a feast to all the sages of the day.’’ Said 
Rabha: ‘‘ May it be accounted to me, that whenever a young 
scholar and another man came before me for judgment, I did 
not put my head on the pillow (rest) until I exhausted every 
means to find the scholar’s words prove the justice of his claim.”’ 
Said Mar, the son of R. Ashi: ‘‘I am unfit to judge a young 
scholar because I love him as well as I do myself, and no man 
can see himself unjust.’”’ 

R. Hanina used to wrap himself in a cloak on the eve of Sab- 
bath and say: ‘‘ Come with me, and let us go toward Sabbath 
the queen.’’ R. Yanai used to clothe himself in his holiday 
clothes on the eve of Sabbath and say: ‘‘ Come, bride; come, 
bride,” 

Rabba, the son of R. Huna, came as a guest to the house of 
Rabba the son of R. Na’hman. At the table three cakes steeped 
in the fat of the ram (which were only served on special occasions) 
were placed before him. Said he to his host: ‘‘ Didst thou know 
that I would come to visit thee ?”’ Answered the host: ‘* Art 
thou then better than the Sabbath? (We prepare it usually 
for every Sabbath, as it is written: ‘And thou shalt call the 
Sabbath a pleasure.’)’’ 

R. Aba used to buy on the eve of every Sabbath thirteen 
Isteris’ (six and a half Dinars) worth of meat from thirteen 
different butchers, and would hand them the money immediately 
upon their entering his door * and delivering the meat, saying to 
them: ‘‘ Make haste, make haste and deliver your orders to 
others.’’ R. Abuha used to sit on an ivory stool and make fire 
in honor of the Sabbath. R. Anan used to don a black apron 
in order to show that this day (the eve of the Sabbath) was a 
day of preparation, and that work had to be performed for the 
Sabbath. R. Safra used to singe a cow’s head himself for the 
Sabbath, and Rabha would salt fish himself. R. Huna would 
light candles himself. R. Papa would prepare the wicks for the 
lamps. R. Hisda would cut herbs himself. Rabba and R. 
Joseph would chop wood for Sabbath. R. Zera would light the 
kindling wood. R. Na’hman bar Itz’hak would shoulder all bur- 





* Rashi interprets this passage somewhat differently, namely: R. Aba did not 
hand the money to the butchers immediately upon their entering the door, but would 
hand the meat to his servants at the door, saying : ‘‘ Make haste and cook this while 
I go and bring more,” showing that he went himself for the meat and brought each 
piece from each butcher home separately. 


252 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


dens to be carried in and out of the house himself on the eve of 
Sabbath, saying: “‘If R. Ami or R. Assi would come to visit 
me, would I not do the same for them ?’’ Others say that R. 
Ami and Assi did this on the eve of every Sabbath, saying: ‘‘ If 
it should happen that R. Johanan were to visit us, would we not 
do the same for him ?”’ 

Joseph, who honored the Sabbath, had a rich Gentile for a 
neighbor. The astrologers told the Gentile that all his goods 
and possessions would eventually be eaten up by Joseph, his 
neighbor. He went and sold out all his goods, and with the 
proceeds bought a precious pearl. This pearl he had set in his 
turban. While crossing a lake one day, the wind blew off his 
turban and it fell into the water. A fish swallowed it. Subse- 
quently the fish was caught by fishermen late on the eve of 
Sabbath. Said the fishermen: ‘‘ Who will buy this so late in 
the evening ?’’ They were told by some people to go to Joseph, 
who honored the Sabbath, and that he usually bought such things. 
They carried it to Joseph, who bought it, and upon opening the 
fish he found the pearl, which he sold for thirteen* boxes of 
golden Dinars. A certain old man met this Joseph, and said to 
him: ‘‘ He who lends to the Sabbath is repaid. by the Sabbath 
itself.”’ 

Rabbi (Jehudah Hanassi) asked of R. Ishmael the son of R. 
Jose: “‘ By what acts did the rich men of Palestine, so wealthy, 
merit their wealth ?”’ 

He answered: “‘ Because they gave tithes, as it is written 
[Deut. xiv. 22]: ‘ Thou shalt truly give tithes.’’’+ ‘‘ By what 
acts did the rich men of Babylon merit their wealth ?’’ asked 
Rabbi again. ‘‘ Because they keep the Iaw honorably,’’ was the 
reply. ‘*‘ And what about the rich men of other lands ?’’ ‘‘ Be- 
cause they honor the Sabbath,”’ as R. Hyya bar Aba related: 
‘It happened that I was a guest in the house of a man in the 
city of Ludkai and a golden table was brought for me, which 
required sixteen men to carry, and sixteen silver chains were fas- 
tened to it, and bowls, pitchers, goblets, and glasses were hung 
on those chains, and on the table were all kinds of food and 





* Rashi explains that his teacher Levi taught, that the number thirteen was 
usually used by the sages for a general sum and must not be taken literally as the 
above thirteen butchers, etc. 

+ The literal verse reads : ‘‘ Asser teasher,” which is here applied in the sense, 
that thou shalt give tithes in order that thou mayst become rich, the word ‘‘osher” 
also meaning riches. , 


TRACT SABBATH. 253 


beverages and spices, and when the table was set down they 
said: ‘ Unto the Lord belongeth the earth, with what filleth it’ 
[Psalms xxiv. 1], and when the table was taken away, they said: 
“The heavens are the heavens of the Lord; but the earth hath 
he given unto the children of men.’ [Psalms xcv. 16.] I said 
to my host, ‘ My son, how didst thou merit all this ?°~ Said le, 
‘I used to be a butcher, and whenever I came across a good 
animal, I would keep it for Sabbath.’ Said I to him: * Well is 
unto thee, that thou hast merited this, and praise be to God, 
who hath rewarded thee.’ ”’ 

Said the Exilarch to R. Hamnuna: “ It is written [Isaiah lviii. 
13]: ‘ The holy day of the Lord, honorable.’ What does this 
‘honorable’ signify ?”? R. Hamnuna answered: “‘ It means the 
Day of Atonement, on which day there is no eating and no 
drinking, and hence the Thora says, thou shalt honor it with 
clean clothes.’’ Further, it says [ibid.]: ‘‘ Thou shalt honor it ”’ 
(this evidently does not refer to the Day of Atonement, which 
is called honorable, but must again refer to the Sabbath; how, 
then, should it be honored ?) Said Rabh: ‘* Thou shalt make the 
usual time of thy meals earlier,’’ and Samuel said, ‘* Thou shalt 
postpone the ordinary meal-hour.’’ The children of R. Papa bar 
Aba asked R. Papa: ‘‘ How shall we, who have meat and wine 
every day, distinguish the Sabbath day ?’’ He answered: “ If 
ye usually have your meals at a late hour, have them earlier, and 
if at an early hour, have them later.”’ 

R. Shesheth (who was blind) in the summer used to seat his 
pupils, who came to hear him lecture on Sabbath, in a place 
where the sun shone earliest, in order that they might become 
warm and leave, and in the winter used to seat them where the 
sun could not reach them, that they might become cold and leave 
the sooner. 

R. Zera, when seeing his pupils standing in pairs and discuss- 
ing the Thora on the Sabbath, used to say to them: ““T pray 
ye, go home, eat, drink, and be merry. Do not violate the 
Sabbath! (It is made for pleasure and not for learning.) ”’ 

Rabha, according to others R. Jehoshua ben Levi, said: 
‘Even a man who prays singly on the Sabbath eve must recite 
the prayer commencing with ‘ Thus were finished,’ etc. [Gen- 
esis ii. 1-3]; for R. Hamnuna said, that he who prays on the 
Sabbath eve and recites that prayer is considered by the verse as 
being a collaborator in the creation of the world.”’ 

R. Eliezer said: ‘‘ Whence do we know that speaking is 


VOL. II.—5 


254 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


equal to acting, as it is written [Psalms xxxiii. 6]: ‘ By the 
word of the Lord were the heavens made.’ ”’ 

R. Hisda in the name of Mar Uqba said: ‘‘ He who on the 
Sabbath recites the prayer commencing with, ‘ Thus were fin- 
ished,’ etc., has the hands of the two angels who accompany 
each man laid on his head, and they say to him [Isaiah vi. 7]: 
‘And thy iniquity is departed and thy sin is forgiven.’ ”’ 

We have learned in a Boraitha: R. Jose bar Jehudah said: 
‘Two angels accompany a man on the Sabbath eve on his way 
home from the house of prayer; one is a good angel and the 
other an evil one; and when the man comes home and finds the 
candles lit, the table set, and his bed made up, the good angel 
says: ‘ May it be the will of God that the next Sabbath shall 
be the same,’ and the evil angel answers ‘ Amen’ involuntarily. 
If, however, the man does not find everything in order, the evil 
angel says: ‘ Mayst thou find it so on the next Sabbath also,’ 
and the good angel answers against his own will: ‘ Amen.’”’ 

R. Elazar said: ‘‘ A man should set his table on the Sabbath 
eve, although he may not be hungry and can eat not more than 
the size of an olive.’’ R. Hanina said: ‘‘ A man should set 
his table on the eve following the Sabbath, though he may 
not be hungry and can eat but the size of one olive. (This 
is also in honor of the Sabbath and is like the accompanying 
of a king at his departure.) Warm water at the close of the 
Sabbath day is wholesome. Warm bread at that time is also 
wholesome.’’ 

R. Abuha used to have a calf which was the third calf of 
its mother (and hence the best) killed for him at the close of the 
Sabbath day, and he ate only one of the entrails of the calf. 
When his son Abhimi grew up, he (Abhimi) said, ‘‘ Why kill a 
whole calf for the sake of one of its entrails? Let us leave 
one of the entrails of the calf killed for the Sabbath for father, 
that he may eat it at the close of the Sabbath.’’ This was done, 
but a lion came and killed the calf that was spared. 

R. Jehoshua ben Levi said: ‘‘ He who answers ‘ Amen. 
The Name of the Eternal be blessed,’ with all his heart, has 
any ill fate which has been predestined for him nullified in 
heaven, as it is written [Judges v. 2]: “When depravity had 
broken out in Israel, then did the people offer themselves will- 
ingly; (therefore) praise ye the Lord.’ Why had depravity 
broken out in Israel? Because they had not praised the Lord.’’ 
R. Hyya bar Abba in the name of R. Johanan said: ‘‘ Even if 


TRACT SABBATH. 255 


that man have amongst his sins aught of idolatry, he is also 
forgiven.”’ 

Said Resh Lakish: ‘‘ He who answers ‘ Amen,’ etc., with 
all his might has the gates of Paradise opened for him, as it is 
written [Isaiah xxvi. 2]: ‘Open ye the gates, that there may 
enter in the righteous nation that guardeth the truth.’’’ (The 
truth in Hebrew is called ‘‘ Emunim,’’ and Resh Lakish said, 
“Do not read Emunim but Amenim, the plural for Amen.’’) 
What is Amen? Said R. Hanina: ‘‘ Amen is the abbreviation 
for El (God), Melech (king), Neamon (truth).’’ (Meaning that 
by saying Amen a man certifies that his Creator is the God and 
king of truth.) 

k. Jehudah, the son of R. Samuel, in the name of Rabh said: 
‘“ A fire seldom occurs in a place unless there is a violation of 
the Sabbath, as it is written [Jeremiah xvii. 27]: ‘ But if ye will 
not hearken unto me to hallow the Sabbath day, and not to bear 
a burden, and to enter in at the gates of Jerusalem on the Sab- 
bath day; then will I kindle a fire in its gates, and it shall devour 
the palaces of Jerusalem, and it shall not be quenched.’’’ What 
does “‘it shall not be quenched”’ signify? Said R. Na’hman 
bar Itz’hak: ‘‘ The fire shall occur at a time when men are not 
around, asa rule.’”’ 

Abayi said: “‘ Jerusalem was destroyed solely on account of 
the violation of the Sabbath, as it is written [Ezekiel xxii. 26]: 
‘And from (the violations of) my Sabbaths do they turn away 
their eyes, so that I am profaned among them.’’’ R. Abuha 
said: ‘’ Jerusalem was not destroyed until they had abolished 
the reading of the Shema in the morning and in the evening, 
as it is written [Isaiah v. 11-13]: ‘ Wo unto those that rise up 
early in the morning, that they may run after strong drink, that 
continue until late in the twilight, till wine inflame them! And 
there are harp and psaltery, tambourine and flute, and wine, at 
their drinking feasts; but the deeds of the Lord they regard 
not, and the works of his hands they behold not. Therefore are 
my people led into exile, for want of knowledge.’’’ R. Ham- 
nuna said: “‘ Jerusalem was not destroyed until the children 
were kept away from school, as it is written [Jeremiah vi. 16 a 
‘(I must) pour it out over the child in the street’; and it may 
be explained thus: Why must I pour it out ? Because the child 
is in the street and not at school.’’ 

Ula said: ** Jerusalem was destroyed because the people were 
devoid of shame, as it is written [ibid. 15]: ‘They should 


256 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


have been ashamed because they committed an abomination; 
but they neither felt the least shame, nor did they know how to 
blush; therefore shall they fall among those that fall’? 

R. Itz’hak said: ‘* Jerusalem was destroyed only because no 
distinction was made between great and small, as it is written 
[Isaiah xxiv. 2, 3]: ‘And it shall be the same with the people 
as with the priest, etc. Empty, emptied out shall be the land.’ ”’ 
R. Amram, the son of R. Simeon bar Aba, in the name of his 
father, quoting R. Hanina, said: “‘ Jerusalem was destroyed only 
because the people did not admonish one another, as it is writ- 
ten (Lamentations i. 6): ‘ Her princes have become like harts 
that have found no pasture.’ As the harts in a herd travel 
head to rump, so would the men of Jerusalem not dare face 
each other with admonitions, but followed from behind in 
silence. 

R. Jehudah said: ‘‘ Jerusalem was destroyed because they 
insulted men of learning, as it is written [II Chronicles xxxvii. 
16]: ‘‘ But they mocked at the messengers of God, and de- 
spised his words, and scorned his prophets, until the fury of the 
Lord arose against his people, till there was no remedy.’’ What 
does ‘‘ till there was no remedy ”’ signify? Said R. Jehudah in 


the name of Rabh: ‘‘ He who insults a man of learning, can 
find no panacea for his affliction.” 
R. Jehudah in the name of Rabh said again: ‘‘ It is written 


[I Chronicles xvi. 22]: ‘Touch not my anointed, and do my 
prophets no harm.’’’ By “‘ touch not my anointed’ is meant 
the children of the school (for children are usually anointed), 
and ‘‘ do my prophets no harm ”’ refers to the scholars. * 

Resh Lakish said in the name of R. Jehudah the Second: 
‘The world is sustained solely through the exhalation of the 
children’’ (because they are pure and without sin). Said R. 
Papa to Abayi: ‘‘ What about thy and my exhalation?’’ Answered 
‘Abayi: ‘‘ The difference lies therein, that thou and I might 
have sinned, but children are incapable of committing sin. 
Resh Lakish said again in the name of the same authority: 
“The children should not be withheld from attending school, 
even while the new temple shall be in process of construction.”’ 

Said Resh Lakish to R. Jehudah the Second: “‘ I have heard 





* Rashi justifies this reference by basing it on the verse in Psalms xc. 12, which 
he interprets: ‘‘ A prophet has a heart endowed with wisdom”; although Isaac 
Leeser translates the verse, ‘‘ That we may obtain a heart endowed with wisdom,” 
the Hebrew word Navi meaning both ‘‘ prophet” and also ‘* we may obtain.” 


TRACT SABBATH. 257 


a tradition coming from thy parents which says, that the city 
which has no school for children shall be destroyed; but Rabhina 
says, the tradition is to the effect that the high court shall put 
the city under a ban (until a school is built for children),’’ 

Rabha said: Jerusalem was destroyed solely because there 
were no more trustworthy men there, as it is written [Jeremiah 
v. I]: ‘‘ Roam about through the streets of Jerusalem, and see 
now, and notice, and search in its broad places, if ye can find 
one man, if there be one that executeth justice, that searcheth 
for truth: and I will pardon it.’’ What is meant by trustworthy 
men? Such as can be trusted in business. 

MISHNA: Further, one may save a basket full of loaves (of 
bread), be it even enough for a hundred meals, a fig-cake, and a 
cask of wine; and one may also call to others: ‘‘ Come ye and 
save for yourselves!’’ If those who do so understand their 
advantage, they make a settlement with the owner after the 
Sabbath is over. Where may such articles be taken to (for 
safety)? To a court that is joined to the other (court of the 
house burning) by an Erub. Ben Bathyra says: ‘‘ Even to one 
that is not joined by an Erub.’’ 

There all utensils (dishes) may be brought, that are used on 
the same day; one may (in the event of a conflagration on the 
Sabbath) put on as many clothes as possible, and may wrap 
himself in whatever is possible. R. Jose says: ‘‘ One may only 
put on eighteen pieces of ordinary apparel, but he can come 
back as often as he chooses and put on the same quantity and 
carry them off.’” One may also call to others: ‘‘ Come ye and 
save with me (whatever ye can)!”’ 

GEMARA: Have we not learned, in the preceding Mishna 
[page 245], that only (enough victuals for) three meals may be 
saved (and in the above Mishna sufficient for a hundred meals 
is permitted)? Said R. Huna: ‘‘This presents no difficulty. Our 
Mishna refers to one who comes to save the food with only one 
basket (when he may fill it with any quantity, whereas the pre- 
ceding Mishna refers to one who brings several baskets, and in 
such a case it is not permitted to put in each basket more than 
sufficient for three meals).’’ But R. Aba bar Zavda in the name 
of Rabh said: “‘ Both Mishnas refer to one who comes even 
with several baskets, but still no difficulty arises. This Mishna 
speaks of one who does not carry the food beyond the same 
court, while the other refers to one who carries it into another 
Court. 


258 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


‘A fig-cake,”’ etc. Why does the Mishna say, that if those 
who save for themselves know their advantage they will make a 
settlement with the owner after having saved the things from 
the conflagration ? Are they not entitled to it under any circum- 
stances, by virtue of the owner having made it public property 
when saying, ‘‘Come ye and save for yourselves’’? Said R. 
Hisda: ‘‘ This refers to pious people who would not take advan- 
tage of a man who is compelled to sacrifice his property.’’ Said 
Rabha: ‘‘ Can they be called pious, who accept remuneration 
for their time on the Sabbath? Nay; the Mishna does not refer 
to pious men, but to God-fearing men, who, while they would not 
take anything not belonging to them, would not care to trouble 
themselves gratuitously. By stating, therefore, that those who 
know their advantage will settle accounts with the owner after- 
wards, the Mishna means to say that their prudence consists in 
their knowing that they will not receive any remuneration for 
their time on Sabbath, but will only receive their own property 
as their duc.” 

‘“ Come ye and save with me.’’ Why does the first part of 
the Mishna permit the saying of “‘ Come and save for your- 
selves,’’ and in the last part the permission is given to say: 
‘“Come and save with me’’? Because the first part of the 
Mishna refers to victuals, and a man cannot save more than suffi- 
cient for three meals, while the last part of the Mishna refers to 
clothing; and as a man can change his clothing as often as he 
pleases, he may call to others to come and help him save what- 
ever is possible. 

‘“ One may put on as many clothes as possible.’’ The rabbis 
taught: One may dress himself, go out and undress, come back 
and dress again, and so on as often as he chooses. So said R. 
Meir. R. Jose, however, said, that one may put on only eigh- 
teen pieces of ordinary apparel. These were: I and 2. Macturen 
and Ungly, a mantle with a head-hold; 3. /uxda, pocket for 
money; 4. Kalbus, a dress without sleeves; 5. Chaluk, a kind of 
shirt; 6. Apzlzute, cover or overcoat; 7. Maopareth,; 8 and 9. 
Drawers and pantaloons and cap for the head; 1o and 11. Shoes; 
12 and 13. Socks; 14 and 15. Pargud, striped suit; 16. Girdle; 
V7, Hat: 13. Neckties, 

MISHNA: R. Simeon, the son of Nanas, says: “‘ One may 
spread a goat-skin over a chest, a box, or a cupboard, which has 
caught fire, so that they only become singed. One may also 
form a partition with any utensil (or vessel), be it full of water 


b 


TRACT SABBATH. 259 


or not, in order to keep the fire from spreading. R. Jose for- 
bids the making of such a partition with new earthenware vessels 
filled with water, because such vessels cannot stand heat, but 
burst and extinguish the fire.”’ 

GEMARA: R. Jehudah said in the name of Rabh: ‘‘ When 
one side of a garment has caught fire, the other side may be put 
in water, and if thereby the fire is extinguished it makes no 
difference.’’ An objection was made: We have learned in a To- 
sephta, that if a garment has caught fire one may wrap it around 
him, and it makes no difference if the fire is thereby extin- 
guished. One may also unroll the Sacred Scrolls, if the covering 
has caught fire on one side, and it does not matter if thus the 
fire is quenched. (This Tosephta then simply permits the un- 
folding or the folding of a garment that has caught fire, but says 
nothing about soaking the undamaged part in water.) Rabh 
holds with R. Simeon, the son of Nanas, in the above Mishna 
(who permits the prevention of the fire). R. Simeon, however, 
restricts his permission so that, while preventing the fire, it is not 
extinguished, but simply singes the objects (when the article, 
however, is soaked in water the fire will certainly be quenched, 
and did R. Simeon permit this also ?) Yea, he did; for the last 
part of the Mishna relates, that R. Jose forbids the making of a 
partition with new pottery filled with water, because such vessels 
are liable to burst and extinguish the fire; and if R. Jose forbids 
this, surely R. Simeon (the first Tana) must have permitted it 
in the first part of the Mishna. 

The rabbis taught: If a candle fall on the table, the table 
board may be raised and the candle dropped to the floor, and if 
it become extinguished, it matters not. Another Boraitha 
taught, that if a candle burn behind a door, the door may be 
opened and closed as usual, regardless of whether the candle is 
thus extinguished. Rabh scolded the one that thus decreed. 
Said Rabhina to R. A’ha the son of Rabha, according to others 
R. A’ha the son of Rabha to R. Ashi: ‘‘ Why did Rabh scold 
the one who made that decree? Shall we say that it was 
because he holds with R. Jehudah (who says that an indirect 
act is also prohibited), and the Boraitha holds with R. Simeon, 
who permits the performance of an indirect act; is it possible 
that Rabh will scold every one who holds with R. Simeon ?’’ 
He answered: ‘‘ In this matter R. Simeon would also agree that 
this is prohibited, as it would be like decapitating a man without 
killing him.”’ 


260 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


R. Jehudah said: ‘‘ One may open a door opposite a hearth- 
fire.’” Abayi scolded the one that decreed thus. Of what cir- 
cumstances do we treat here? If the door is opened when there 
is an ordinary wind blowing, what reason had the one to pro- 
hibit it; and if there be an extraordinary wind blowing, why did 
the other permit it? The case here treated of is that of an 
ordinary wind, and the one prohibits the door being opened as a 
precautionary measure, lest this be done when a high wind is 
blowing, while the other does not regard a precautionary meas- 
ure necessary. 

‘“‘ One may also form a partition,’’ etc. Shall we say that the 
rabbis hold the indirect bringing about of an extinction to be per- 
missible and R. Jose holds to the contrary? Have we not heard 
the case to be the reverse? We have learned in a Boraitha: 
One may make a partition with empty vessels, and with vessels 
filled with water that are not liable to burst, and such are iron 
vessels. R. Jose, however, says, that the vessels made of pot- 
tery in the villages of Shihin and Hananiah are also proof against 
bursting. Thus we see that R. Jose is even more lenient than 
the rabbis? This presents no difficulty, for the above Boraitha 
is altogether in accordance with R. Jose; but it is incomplete, 
and should read thus: “*‘ One may make a partition with empty 
vessels, and with such as are filled with water but are not liable 
to burst; and such vessels are iron vessels and vessels made of 
pottery in the villages of Shihin and Hananiah,’’ as R. Jose says 
that the vessels made of pottery in these villages are proof 
against heat. 

MISHNA: If a non-Israelite comes near to extinguish (the 
fire), one must neither say to him: ‘‘ Extinguish (it),’’ nor ‘‘ Do 
not extinguish it,’’ and for the reason, that one is not obliged 
to make him rest (on Sabbath). If a minor, however, desires to 
extinguish the fire, one must not allow him to do so, because 
one is obliged to see that he (the minor) rests (on Sabbath). 

GEMARA: R. Ami said: “* During a conflagration one may 
proclaim: ‘ Whoever will come and extinguish the fire, will lose 
nothing by it.’ ”’ 

The rabbis taught: It happened that a fire broke out in the 
court of Joseph ben Simai in the town of Shihin, and the men 
of the fortress of Sepphoris came to extinguish the fire, because 
Joseph was an official of the government; but he would not allow 
them to do so, in honor of the Sabbath. A miracle occurred, 
and it commenced to rain, and the fire was extinguished. That 


TRACT SABBATH. 261 


evening he sent to each man in the fortress two selah and to their 
officer fifty selah. When the sages heard this, they said: ‘‘ It was 
not at all necessary to do this, because the Mishna says, that 
when a Gentile comes to extinguish a fire on Sabbath, one need 
not tell him to do it, or not to do it.’’ 

‘““Tf a minor, however, desires to extinguish the fire,’’ etc. 
Could we conclude from this, that if a minor is detected eating 
forbidden food it is the duty of the court of justice to prevent 
his doing so (and we know such is not the case)? Said R. 
Johanan: ‘‘ Yea; if the minor does this with his father’s knowl- 
edge. We must say, then, that the same case applies to the 
Gentile, who does the work with the knowledge of the Israelite 
whose house is burning. Is this permitted? Yea, it is; for the 
Gentile does it of his own volition, and it makes no difference 
whether the Israelite knows it or not (because he, the Gentile, 
knows he will be rewarded).”’ 

MISHNA.: One may cover the top of a lamp with a vessel 
in order that the ceiling may not catch fire, and also cover the 
ordure (of poultry *) on account of the children (in the house). 
(One may also place a vessel) over a scorpion in order to prevent 
him from biting. R. Jehudah said: “‘ A case of this kind hap- 
pened once in the presence.of R. Johanan ben Zakai in Arab, 
and he said, ‘I am not certain whether (the man) is not culpable 
(and bound to bring a sin-offering).’ ’’ 

GEMARA: R. Jehudah, R. Jeremiah b. Aba, and R. Hanon 
b. Ram happened to be the guests of Abin of Nishikia. The two 
former were furnished with beds, and the last one was not. At 
the same time, he noticed him teaching his son that the ordure 
of a child is to be covered, in order that the child should not 
touch it; and he said, ‘‘ Abin the fool is teaching foolishness to 
his children. Is not the ordure of a child useful for dogs ? 
What can you say? It was not prepared from yesterday. But 
this makes no difference; for we have learned in a Boraitha, that 
running rivers and springing wells are to be considered as the 
feet of every man.’’” And Abin asked, ‘‘ How, then, shall we 
teach ?’’ And Hanon answered, “‘ Over the ordure of poultry, 
that the child shall not touch it.’’ 

‘““ Over a scorpion tn order to prevent him from biting.’’ R. 
Jehoshua ben Levi said: “‘ All dangerous creatures may be 
killed on Sabbath.’’ R. Joseph raised an objection: ‘‘ We have 


* According to the explanation of the Gemara. See also translation of the 
Mishna by De Sola and Raphall. 


’ 





262 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


learned in a Boraitha, that five creatures may be killed on Sab- 
bath, and they are: the fly of Egypt, the wasp of Nineveh, and 
the serpent of Hadaiev, and the snake of Palestine, and a mad 
dog from any region.’’ According to whose opinion is this Bo- 
raitha ? It is not according to the opinion of R. Jehudah, who 
holds, that the performance of an act not in itself necessary 
makes one culpable? We must say, then, that the Boraitha 
agrees with R. Simeon. If this is so, is it allowed to kill only 
these five, and not others? Said R. Jeremiah: ‘‘ Who can tell 
us that this Boraitha is a correct one? It may be erroneous.”’ 
Said R. Joseph: ‘‘I have studied the Boraitha. The same 
objection was made before me, and I defended it by stating, that 
the Boraitha refers to the case where the creatures pursued the 
man in order to harm him, and under these circumstances even 
R. Jehudah permits the killing of these creatures.”’ 

A certain disciple related before Rabha, the son of R. Huna, 
quoting a Boraitha: ‘‘ One who kills serpents and snakes on the 
Sabbath does not find favor in the eyes of the pious.’’ An- 
swered Rabha: ‘‘ And these pious men do not find favor in the 
eyes of our sages.’’ Thus he differs with R. Huna, for it hap- 
pened that R. Huna, seeing a man killing a snake on Sabbath, 
said to him: Hast thou killed the last of them (if thou hast 
only killed one, of what use is it to violate the Sabbath ? From 
this we see that R. Huna differs from the opinion of his son.) 

The rabbis taught: If a man met snakes on the road and 
killed them, it was decreed above that he should kill them (thus 
removing danger for others, because a good deed is performed 
through a righteous man); if, however, he did not kill them, it 
was decreed above that he should be killed by them (that is, he 
is a sinner and deserving of death), but through the mercy of 
the Lord a miracle was performed, and he was saved. Said 
Ula, according to others Rabba bar bar Hana, in the name of 
RK. Johanan: ‘‘ Only in case the snakes prepared to strike at the 
man, can it be said that it was decreed that the man should be 
killed.” 

R. Aba bar Kahana said: ‘‘ It happened that a snake was 
found in the school-house, and a man of the city of Neiety killed 


it.”’ Said Rabbi: ‘“‘ He met his equal.’’ The schoolman 
asked: ‘‘ Did Rabbi mean, that the man was right in his deed, 
or on the contrary ?’’ Come and hear: R. Aba, the son of 


Hyya b. Aba, and R. Zera were sitting in the hut of R. Janai, 
and they resolved to ask R. Janai if one might kill snakes and 


TRACT SABBATH. 263 


serpents on the Sabbath. And he answered: ‘‘ If a bee should 
annoy me, I would kill it; @ fortcor7, snakes and serpents.”’ 

Aba the son of Marta, who is Aba the son of Minyumi, was 
indebted in a sum of money to the Exilarch’s house. He was 
brought there and was worried. While standing in the room, 
Aba spat on the floor. This happened on the Sabbath, and the 
Exilarch ordered his servants to bring a dish and cover up the 
spittle. Said Aba to him: ‘‘ This is not necessary, for R. Jehu- 
dah says, that one may put his foot on spittle and thus clear it 
off.’’ Thereupon the Exilarch remarked: ‘‘ This proves to me 
that the man is a young scholar; let him go in peace,” 

Aba bar Kahana said in the name of R. Hanina:‘‘ The lamps 
of the house of Rabbi may be handled on the Sabbath.’’ R. 
Zera asked him: ‘‘ Which lamps do you refer to, the lamps that 
can be handled with one hand, or those that require both hands ’’? 
and he answered: ‘‘ The same as can be found in your father’s 
house (those were small lamps).’’ The same Aba said in the 
name of the same authority, that the carriages of the house of 
Rabbi might also be handled on the Sabbath. R. Zera asked him 
which he referred to, those that one man can pull, or those that 
require two men, and the answer was: ‘‘ The same that your 
father possesses.’’ Aba bar Kahana said again, that the same 
R. Hanina permitted the house of Rabbi to drink wine that 
was sealed with but one seal, in the markets of the heathens, 
and he states, that he does not know whether R. Hanina holds 
with R. Eliezer (who held that one seal only was necessary) or 
whether he permitted this out of respect to the house of the 
Nassi (for fear that if he prohibited this, they would become 
angry *), 

MISHNA: If a non-Israelite lit a lamp on the Sabbath, the 
Israelite might make use of the light. If he (the non-Israelite) 
did so (especially) for the Israelite, the latter must vo? use it. 
If the non-Israelite filled up (a trough) with water, to water his 
(own) cattle, the Israelite may water his cattle after him; if he 
did so for the Israelite (especially), the latter must not water his 
cattle with it. If a non-Israelite made a stairway in order to 
descend upon it from a ship, the Israelite might descend after 
him; if he made it (especially) for the Israelite, the latter must 
not descend. Once R. Gamaliel and several elders arrived on a 
ship (on Sabbath) and a non-Israelite made a stairway upon which 





* Rashi gives this a different explanation, but the above seems correct to us. 


264 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


to descend (from the ship), whereupon R. Gamaliel and the 
elders also descended. 

GEMARA: And it is necessary for the Mishna to mention 
the above cases separately, because if we were taught only con- 
cerning a lamp, we would say, that a lamp only may be used 
because a lamp will give light for a hundred men as well as for 
one; but as for water, we might say, that the water should not 
be used, in precaution lest the non-Israelite replenish the trough 
especially for the Israelite. For what purpose, however, is the 
stairway mentioned? That was only for the purpose of relating 
what happened to R. Gamaliel and the elders. 

The rabbis taught: With grass which a Gentile mowed for 
his own cattle, an Israelite may feed his cattle, but ii the grass 
was mowed especially for the Israelite, he may not. The same 
rule applies to water for watering the cattle. This applies only 
where the Gentile and the Israelite are not acquainted ; but if 
they are, it is not allowed, under any circumstances. This is 
not so! For R. Huna said in the name of R. Hanina, that a 
man may allow his cattle to graze on the Sabbath, but must not 
feed them on grass which he designated previously for some 
other purpose (it matters not whether the grass is still uncut or 
cut). (Now, we see that things which have been designated for 
another purpose must not be fed to cattle on the Sabbath; how 
then is it allowed to feed one’s cattle on the Gentile’s grass 
which was cut on the Sabbath, and surely designated for some 
express purpose?) This presents no difficulty; for the permis- 
sion to feed one’s cattle on the Gentile’s grass only holds good 
‘t the cattle feed themselves, and the man may stand by and 
prevent them from invading another pasture (but does not allow 
the man to feed them by hand). 

It is said above: ‘‘ This applies only where the Gentile and 
the Israelite are not acquainted,’’ etc. Is this so? Did not R. 
Gamaliel descend on the stairway, although he and the Gentile 
were acquainted ? Said Abayi : “ The Gentile made the stair- 
way when R. Gamaliel did not see him.’’ But Rabhasaid: “‘ It 
may be that the stairway was made in the presence of R. Gama- 
liel, but this case would be the same as that of alamp. A lamp 
for one is a lamp for a hundred.”’ 

An objection was made to the teaching of Rabha: We have 
learned in a Tosephta: R. Gamaliel said to the elders: ‘‘ As the 
Gentile made the stairway while we were not looking, we may 
descend on it.’’ Answered Rabha: ‘‘ Read simply, that ia 


TRACT SABBATH. 265 


Gamaliel said, ‘ because the Gentile had already made it, we may 
USE it, 7-” 

Samuel happened to arrive at the house of Abin in Touron 
ona Sabbath. A Gentile came and lit acandle. Samuel turned 
his face away from the light; but after seeing that the Gentile 
brought a paper and commenced to read by the light of that 
candle, he said: ‘‘ I see now that the Gentile lit the candle for 
his own use,’’ and he then made use of it himself, 


CHAPTER, X©V ii. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE HANDLING OF UTENSILS AND FUR- 
NITURE ON THE SABBATH. 


MISHNA: All utensils (and furniture) which may be 
handled on the Sabbath, their doors (lids) may be handled with 
them, even when their lids had been removed; for such lids can- 
not be considered as house-doors, which are not intended to be 
removed. One may take a hammer on the Sabbath for the pur- 
pose of cracking nuts, an axe to chop fig-cake, a hand-saw to 
saw cheese, a shovel to gather up dried figs, a fan and a fork to 
place a thing (food) before a child, a spindle and a shuttle to 
pick fruit, a sewing-needle to remove a splinter (from the flesh), 
and a packing needle to open a door. 

GEMARA: ‘‘ A utensils which may be handled on the 
Sabbath, their doors (lids) may be handled with them, even when 
their lids had been removed.’’ Removed when, on Sabbath ? 
and if removed on a week-day they certainly may be handled ? 
Why, on the contrary. On Sabbath the lids being attached to 
the utensils, they were intended for use with the utensils; but 
if removed on week-days, they did not form part of the uten- 
sils on the Sabbath, hence not intended for simultaneous use, 
and should not be handled! Said Abayi: The Mishna means to 
say, that the lids may be handled with the utensils on the Sab- 
bath even if the lids had been removed ox a week-day. 

The rabbis taught: ‘‘ The doors (lids) of a drawer, chest, or 
cage, may be taken down on the Sabbath, but not replaced. 
The door of a chicken-coop (which is built in the ground) must 
not be removed nor replaced on the Sabbath.’’ It may be right 
to prohibit the removing or replacing of the door of a chicken- 
coop (built in the ground), because removing it would constitute 
the act of tearing down, and replacing it would constitute build- 
ing, but as for the doors of a drawer, chest, or cage, what 1s the 
opinion of the rabbis? Do they hold that the acts of building 
and tearing down apply also to utensils? If so, why do they 


permit the removing of the doors (lids); and if not, why do they 
266 


TRACT SABBATH. 267 


prohibit replacing them? Said Rabha: ‘‘ The act of building 
does not apply to utensils, but replacing is prohibited more as a 
precautionary measure, lest one drive the door in with a stick 
(and this would constitute the act of hammering).’’ 

“One may take a hammer,’ etc. Said R. Jehudah: This 
refers to a hammer intended only for nut-cracking, and such a 
hammer may be used to crack nuts, but a smith’s hammer must 
not be used for that purpose; [for R. Jehudah holds, that a 
thing which is intended only for an act prohibited on the Sab- 
bath, must not be used even for a permissible act]. Rabba, 
however, says, that a smith’s hammer may be used to crack nuts 
[for he holds that a thing which is intended only for a prohibited 
act, may be used for a permissible act]. 

It was taught: R. Hyya bar Aba in the name of R. 
Johanan said: ‘‘ We have learned, that a hammer which is 
intended for hammering gold may also be used for cracking 
nuts.’’ R. Shoman bar Aba said: ‘‘ We have learned, that the 
hammer referred to is intended to be used for spices.’’ 

The one who teaches that a spice-hammer may be used cer- 
tainly permits a gold-hammer; but the one permitting a gold- 
hammer to be used, does not allow a spice-hammer, because a 
spice-hammer must be kept perfectly clean, and is usually laid 
away for non-use during the Sabbath. 

“A spindle and a shuttle to pick fruit,’’ etc. The rabbis 
taught: A date which was not quite ripe, and was put in straw 
which was intended for use in clay-making, might be taken out. 
providing it was not completely covered by the straw, but 
enough to take hold of was left uncovered. The same applies 
to a cake which was taken out of the oven not quite done, and 
was put in glowing cinders to be cooked; but R. Eliezer ben 
Tadai said, that both the date and the cake might be taken out 
even when completely covered, providing this is done with a 
prong, and then the straw or the ashes respectively fall off of 
themselves. Said R. Na’hman: ‘‘ The Halakha prevails accord- 
ing to R. Eliezer ben Tadai.’’ 

From this we see‘that R. Na’hman holds, that handling in 
an unusual manner is not considered handling at all; but did not 
R. Na’hman say, that if a radish is deposited in earth with its 
roots downwards and its head upwards and protruding from the 
earth, it may be taken out; but if deposited head downwards, 
it must not be taken out (and thus we see that R. Na’hman 
regards handling in an unusual manner the same as handling 


268 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


proper)? The answer is, that R. Na’hman afterward retracted 
his decision concerning the radish. 

“A sewing-needle to remove a splinter.’’ WRabha the son of 
Rabba sent a request to R. Joseph: “* Let the master teach us 
the law regarding a needle, the eyelet or the point of which had 
been broken off.’’ R. Joseph answered: ‘‘ We have learned 
this in our Mishna: ‘A sewing-needle to remove a splinter.’ 
What difference would it make to the splinter whether the 
needle has an eyelet or not?’’ Rabha objected: ‘‘ We have 
learned, that a needle, the eye or the point of which had been 
broken off, is not subject to defilement.’’ Said Abayi: ‘‘ Thou 
confusest Sabbath with defilement ? As for defilement, a vessel 
must be complete in order to be subject to defilement; but for 
Sabbath use, anything which can be used is in itself sufficient, 
and with this needle I can remove a splinter.’’ 

R. Na’hman forbids the straightening of the limbs of a child 
at birth on the Sabbath, and R. Shesheth permits it. 

MISHNA: The hollow olive-cane is subject to defilement if 
it has a knot; if not, it is not subject to defilement. In any event, 
it may be handled on the Sabbath. 

R. Jose* saith: ‘‘ Any utensil may be handled on the Sab- 
bath, with the exception of the large wood-saw and the plough- 
share.’”’ 

GEMARA: The rabbis taught: Previously only three uten- 
sils were permitted to be handled on the Sabbath, and they were: 
a knife to chop pressed dates, a skimmer, and a small table- 
knife. Subsequently more was allowed, and then still more, 
and then more again, until finally any utensil was allowed with 
the exception of the wood-saw and the ploughshare. 

What is meant by “‘ subsequently more was allowed, and then 
still more,’’ etc. ? Said Rabha: They allowed a thing which was 
intended for use in a permissible act, whether it was needed for 
another purpose, or whether the room it occupied was needed ; 
then still. more was allowed, namely: to shift a thing out of the 
sunshine to a shady place; then more agazu was allowed, namely: 
a thing that was intended for use in a prohibited act (eg., a 
smith’s hammer) was permitted to be used for another purpose 
or when its room was needed; but it was not permitted to be 
moved from the sunshine into the shade, and all this was 


a 





* In the Mishna of Yost and De Sola and Raphall, R. Jehudah was credited with 
the saying, but in our original R. Jose is named, as is proven in Erubhin 35 a. 


TRACT SABBATH. 269 


' allowed to be done by only one person, but not by two, until 
finally all utensils might be handled even by two persons. 

Abayi raised an objection to this: ‘“ We have learned, that a 
mortar which contained garlic may be handled, but if it did not 
contain garlic it must not be handled.’’ The answer was this: It 
is meant, to remove from the sunshine to the shade. R. Hanina 
said: This Mishna was taught in the times of R. Nehemiah ben 
Hahalyah, as it is written [Nehemiah xiii. 15]: ‘‘ In those days 
I saw in Judah some treading wine-presses on the Sabbath, and 
bringing in sheaves, etc.’’ (and because in those times there was 
great laxity in keeping the Sabbath, strict laws were made as 
a precaution, and even a mortar was not allowed to be handled 
unless it contained some eatables). Said R. Elazar: The Mish- 
nas relating to the pieces of wood for the showbreads in Tract 
Menahoth, the sticks used by the priests for the Passover sacrifice 
in the Tract Pesachim, the bolts in the Tract Kelim, and the 
above Mishna relating to the mortar (all of which prohibit the 
handling of such things on Sabbath) were all taught defore it 
was allowed to handle all vessels. 

MISHNA: The utensils may also be handled with intent to 
use them or without such intent. R. Nehemiah saith: ‘‘ They 
may be handled only if intended for use.”’ 

GEMARA: What is meant by “‘ with intent to use them,”’ 
etc.? Said Rabha: ‘*‘ With intent to use them’ means to use 
a thing which was intended for use in a permissible act, whether 
it was needed for its intended use, or whether the room it occu- 
pied was needed; and ‘ without such intent ’ means even to shift 
a thing from the sunshine into the shade, and a thing that was 
intended for use in a prohibited act was permitted to be used 
for its intended use or when its room was needed, but it was not 
permitted to move it from the sunshine into the shade. Now 
R. Nehemiah comes to say, that even if a thing was intended for 
a permissible act, it may be used only for its intended use and 
if the room occupied by it were needed, but it was zot permitted 
to shift it from the sunshine into the shade. 

R. Sapa, R. Aha b. Huna, and R. Huna bar Hanina were 
sitting together. The latter asked R. Sapa, according to Rabha, 
who explains Nehemiah’s teaching (that even a permissible thing 
must not be removed for the purpose of occupying its place): 
‘“ How can we remove dishes after eating ?’’ Said R. Sapa: 
“It is equal to a dirty thing (standing on a clean place), which 
may be removed at any time.’’ 

VOL, 11.—6 


270 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


R. Mari bar Rahel had several leather bolsters that lay in 
the sun (on a Sabbath). He came to Rabha and asked him if he 
might move them. Rabha told him it was allowed. Said R. 


Mari again: ‘‘ I have other bolsters besides these.’’ Answered 
Rabha: ‘* This makes no difference. Thou mightst need those 
too if guests should call.’’ Said R. Mari again: ‘‘ I have suf- 


ficient for guests also.’’ Said Rabha to him: ‘‘ This proves to 
me, then, that thou art of the opinion of Rabba, who prohibits 
the moving of things from the sunshine into the shade on Sab- 
bath. Hence everybody else may do this, but thou must 
net.” 

Said R. Aba in the name of R. Hyya bar Ashi, quoting 
Rabh: Whisks may be handled on the Sabbath to sweep the 
tables, but the brooms made of date-palms (which are only 
intended for floor-sweeping) must not be used for sweeping the 
tables. This was also stated by R. Elazar. 

MISHNA: Of all utensils which may be handled on the 
Sabbath, fragments may also be handled, but it must be with a 
purpose, viz.: the pieces of a kneading-trough to cover the 
bunghole of a cask, the pieces of a glass to cover the mouth of 
a pitcher. R. Jehudah says: ‘‘ They must be fit for the same 
use (as the whole utensil), viz.: the parts of a kneading-trough 
to hold a brew, and the pieces of a glass to hold oil.”’ 

GEMARA: Said R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel: 
“The first Tana of the Mishna and R. Jehudah differ only as to 
fragments which were broken off on the Sabbath; for the former 
holds that the fragment is part and parcel of the utensil, and fit 
for the same use, while R. Jehudah holds, that the fragment is 
a newly created thing; but if the fragments were broken off 
before the Sabbath set in, all agree that they may be handled: 
because they were prepared for use while it was yet (week) day.”’ 

We have learned, in one Boraitha, that fire may be made with 
utensils, but not with fragments; and in another Boraitha we have 
learned, that as we may make fire with utensils, so we may also 
use fragments for the same purpose. Ina third Boraitha, how- 
ever, we were taught, that we must not make fire with either 
utensils or fragments. We must say, then, that the first Bora- 
itha is in accordance with the opinion of R. Jehudah (who holds 
to the ‘theory of ** Muktza’’ and Noled (a newly ceated thing), 
the second Boraitha is in accordance with the opinion of R. 
Simeon (who holds to neither of the two theories), and the third 
Boraitha is in accordance with R. Nehemiah (who holds that 


TRACT SABBATH. = 271 


every utensil must be used for its particular purpose and not for 
other purposes). 

R. Na’hman said: ‘‘ Bricks left over from a building may be 
handled, because they can be used as seats; but if the bricks 
were piled up one on top of the other, they were evidently des- 
ignated for building, and must not be handled.’’ R. Na’hman 
said in the name of Samuel: A fragment of a piece of pottery 
may be handled in private ground, but not in unclaimed ground 
(because in private ground other vessels can generally be found 
and the fragment may be used as a lid or cover, but in unclaimed 
ground there are no other vessels and the fragment cannot be 
used in that manner); but R. Na’hman himself declares, that 
“the fragment may be handled in unclaimed ground also (because 
in unclaimed ground there may also be some things which can 
be covered), but not in public ground; and Rabha, however, 
says, it may be handled even in public ground (because having 
been once regarded as a utensil in private ground it remains such 
everywhere). 

This theory of Rabha’s is borne out by his action; for it 
happened that he was walking on the street Ritka in the city of 
Mehuzza on a Sabbath, when his shoe became soiled with dirt. 
His servant came and cleaned it off with a fragment of a piece of 
pottery. The rabbis who went behind him scolded his servant 
for this act, whereupon he (Rabha) remarked: “‘ It is not enough 
that they have not learned (what is permissible and what is not), 
but they also want to teach others. If this fragment were in 
private ground, it would have been a useful article because a 
vessel could be covered with it, and here in public ground it is 
useful to me.”’ 

R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel said: ‘‘ The bung-head 
of a broken barrel may be handled on Sabbath.’’ We have also 
learned this in the following Boraitha: “‘ The bung-head and the 
pieces of a broken barrel may be handled on Sabbath, but it is 
not allowed to break off a piece of the fragments and cover a 
vessel with it or put it under the legs of a bedstead.”’ If the 
bung-head and pieces, however, were thrown away among the 
garbage before the Sabbath, they must not be handled at all. 

R. Hamdura said in the name of Samuel: “* The waste of a 
mat may be used on the Sabbath.’’ Why so? For what pur- 
pose can it be used? Said Rabha: “‘ Bar Hamdura explained 
this to me as follows: What is a mat used for? To prevent the 
dust from settling upon an object, and the waste can also be used 


272 THE* BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


_ for covering up dirt.’” RK. Zera said in the name of Rabh: ‘‘Rem- 
nants of silken togas must not be handled on the Sabbath.’’ 
Said Abayi: ‘‘ This is said of remnants that measure less than 
three fingers square and are of no value to either rich or poor.”’ 

The rabbis taught: Fragments of an old oven are equal to 
any other vessels that may be handled on Sabbath. So said R. 
Meir; but R. Jehudah said they may not be handled. R. 
Jose testified in the name of R. Eliezer ben Jacob, that frag- 
ments of an oven may be handled on the Sabbath and the cov- 
ers of an oven may be handled even if their handles are broken 
off. Said Rabhina: ‘‘ According to whose opinion do we handle 
to-day the covers of the ovens used in the city of Mahassia, 
which have no handles? It must be according to the opinion of * 
R. Eliezer ben Jacob.’’ 

MISHNA: One may dip water with a hollow pumpkin to 
which a stone is fastened, providing the stone will not fall off; 
otherwise, one must not dip water with it. One may dip water 
with a jug to which a vine branch is fastened. 

‘“ For a window-blind,”’ says R. Eliezer, ‘‘ a thing may only 
then be put up, if it be fastened and hang down; otherwise, it 
must not.’’ The sages say it may be put up in any manner. 

GEMARA: We have learned in another Mishna: “‘If a 
stone lie at the opening of a barrel, the barrel may be bent 
over, so that the stone fall down.’’ Said Rabba in the name of 
R. Ami, quoting R. Johanan: “‘ The case applies only when 
the stone lying at the opening of the barrel was left there unin- 
tentionally; but if placed there on purpose, the barrel becomes 
a base for a prohibited thing (and must not be moved).’’ R. 
Joseph in the name of R. Assi, quoting R. Johanan, said, on 
the contrary: ‘‘ If the stone was left there unintentionally the 
barrel must be bent over, so that the stone fall down; but if 
placed there intentionally, it serves as a lid to the barrel, and 
may be removed.’’ On what points do R. Ami and R. Assi 
differ? One holds, that an act must be accomplished in order to 
be an act, while the other holds the intention to be equivalent to 
the deed, and their respective theories are borne out by their 
opinions which follow: 

For when R. Dimi, and according to others R. Zera, came 
from Palestine, he related in the name of R. Hanina: It hap- 
pened that Rabbi once went to a certain place on a Friday, and 
finding a pile of stones said to his disciples: ‘‘ Go and have it in 
your minds that we intend to sit on these to-morrow.”’ Thus 


TRACT SABBATH. 273 


Rabbi did not order them to act, but merely to think. R. 
Johanan, however, said, that Rabbi ordered his disciples to act. 
And what, according to R. Johanan’s opinion, were the disciples 
to do? R. Ami said, that Rabbi ordered them to place the 
stones in position for them to sit on, but R. Assi said, that 
Rabbi ordered them not only to place the stones in position, but 
also to clean them (because, in the latter’s opinion, changing the 
position of an object does not constitute an actual deed). 

It was taught: R. Jose b. Saul said it was not stones but a 
pile of building wood. R. Johanan b. Saul, however, said it 
was not building wood but poles with which the depth of the 
water is sounded. 

‘‘One may dip water with a hollow pumpkin to which a vine- 
branch is fastened.’ If it is fastened one may, and if not, one 
may not. Shall we assume that our Mishna is not in accordance 
with the opinion of R..Simeon ben Gamaliel? as we have learned 
in a Boraitha: Branches of a tree which were intended for kind- 
ling, if subsequently used for sitting purposes, must be tied 
together, but R. Simeon ben Gamaliel said, they need not be 
tied together.* Said R. Ashi: It may be said, that this Mishna 
is not at variance with the opinion of R. Simeon ben Gamaliel, 
but is merely a precautionary measure, for fear that a branch, 
being brittle, might be broken by the man if not tied together. 

‘* For a window-blind,’’ etc. Rabba bar bar Hana in the 
name of R. Johanan said: All agree that it is not permitted to 
put up even a temporary tent t to begin with on a biblical festi- 
val, and decidedly not on the Sabbath, but as for adding (that 
is, if part of the blind was already up) a blind to a temporary 
tent that had already been put up, R. Eliezer said, that it is not 
permissible on a festival and much less so on the Sabbath, and 
the sages declare, that it is permitted on the Sabbath and so 
much the more on a festival. 

‘“ The sages say tt may be put up in any manner.’’ What is 
meant by ‘‘in any manner’”’? Said R. Aba in the name of R. 
Kahana: “‘ By that is meant, that it makes no difference whether 
the blind was fastened or not, providing it was prepared for its 
purpose since the day before.’’ Said R. Jeremiah to him: 





Compare page 90, in this tract. 

+ By a temporary tent, says Rashi, is meant principally a sheet put up on four 
poles to serve as a roof, but screens on the sides are not considered a tent. The 
putting up of a window-blind in a building, however, is regarded by R. Eliezer as an 
addition to the building. 


274 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


‘“Why wouldst thou assume that the sages would be more 
lenient in this matter? Say rather that they meant to state, 
that it made no difference whether the blind hung down or not, 
providing it had been previously fastened.’’ R. Aba answered: 
‘* Because I hold with the Tana of the following Tosephta: A 
stick, prepared by the master of a house for the opening and 
locking of a door, may be used on Sabbath, providing it was 
fastened and hung to the door; otherwise, it must not be used. 
R. Simeon ben Gamaliel, however, declared, that as long as it 
was prepared for that purpose, it was of no consequence whether 
it was fastened and hung to the door.’’ (Thus it may be seen 
that R. Aba held with R. Simeon ben Gamaliel.) 

R. Jehudah bar Silas in the name of R. Assi, quoting R. 
Johanan, said: ‘“‘ The Halakha according to R. Simeon ben 
Gamaliel prevails.’’ Did R. Johanan say this in reality ? Have 
we not learned in a Mishna, that all covers of vessels having 
handles attached may be handled on Sabbath? Referring to this, 
R. Jehudah b. Shila in the name of R. Assi, quoting R. Johanan, 
said, that such would be the case only if the covers could be 
made use of as independent vessels. (How, then, can R. 
Johanan hold with R. Simeon ben Gamaliel, who says, that the 
stick which was not fastened to the door may be used on Sab- 
bath, surely it is not an independent vessel ?) Shall we assume, 
that R. Johanan holds with R. Simeon ben Gamaliel only in the 
case where the stick could also be used for other purposes and 
thus could be called an independent vessel? Then how can it be 
said that R. Johanan holds with R. Simeon ben Gamaliel, for 
the latter does not require the stick to be an independent vessel, 
as we have learned above in the matter of the branches (see 
page 273), where R. Simeon ben Gamaliel declares, that they 
need not be tied together? R. Johanan is in accordance with 
him only in the matter of the stick being prepared for its par- 
ticular purpose without being fastened to the door, but disa- 
grees with him as regards an independent vessel. 

R. Itz’hak of Naph’ha* proclaimed at the door of the 
Exilarch’s house, that the Halakha according to R. Eliezer pre- 
vailed. R. Amram raised an objection: ‘‘ We have learned in 
the last Mishna of this Tract as follows: ‘ Thence we learn that 
it is permitted to put up a window-blind, to measure and to tie 
on the Sabbath.’ ’’ (How, then, could R. Itz’hak say, that the 





* See note to page 96, in this tract. 


TRACT SABBATH. 275 


Halakha according to R. Eliezer prevailed ?) Said Abayi to 
him: Upon what is thy objection concerning R. Itz’hak based ? 
The Mishna just mentioned gives the opinion of the sages only, 
who are at variance with R. Eliezer in our Mishna, and thou 
mightst say, that because no contention is mentioned, the 
Halakha according to the sages prevails; then thou knowest of 
another Mishna (in Erubin), concerning the hinge of a cupboard 
door, no name is mentioned, and still the Mishna appears to be 
in accordance with the opinion of R. Eliezer only (thus R. 
Itz’hak can accept R. Eliezer’s opinion). Saith the Gemara: 
(Although Abayi justified R. Itz’hak) an act of the sages (as is 
related in the last-mentioned Mishna) is sufficiently decisive to 
establish the Halakha. 

MISHNA: All lids of utensils may be removed (on the Sab- 
bath), provided they have handles. Said R. Jose: What does 
this apply to? To lids of vessels fastened in the ground, but 
lids of vessels in general may be removed at all events. 

GEMARA: Said R. Jehudah bar Shila in the name of 
R. Assi, quoting R. Johanan: ‘‘ The lids of utensils may be 
handled only if they can be made use of for other purposes as 
independent vessels.’’ Saith the Gemara: ‘‘All agree, that cov- 
ers of utensils (fixtures) fixed in the ground must be handled 
only if they have handles attached, and lids of other utensils not 
fixed in the ground may be handled even if they have no 
handles, but the point of the divergent opinions is as regards 
the covers of ovens, the one side contending, that ovens must 
be regarded as fixtures in the ground and the other side con- 
tending that they are ordinary utensils.’’ 


CHAPTER. XVIIL 


REGULATIONS REGARDING THE CLEARING OFF OF REQUIRED SPACE, 
THE ASSISTANCE TO BE GIVEN CATTLE WHEN GIVING BIRTH TO 
THEIR YOUNG AND TO WOMEN ABOUT TO BE CONFINED. 


MISHNA: One may even clear off four or five chests of 
straw or grain, in order to provide room for guests, and to 
remove obstacles to instruction; but one must not clear out a 
whole barn. Further, one may clear off: heave-offerings, grain 
(of which it is not certain that the tithes have been set apart), 
first tithes of which the heave-offering has been taken off, sec- 
ond tithes and consecrated things which have been redeemed, 
and dried broad-beans, which serve the poor (others say, the 
goats) for food. But one must not clear off mixed grain (of 
which tithes have not yet been separated), nor first tithes of 
which the heave-offering had not yet been taken off, nor second 
tithes nor consecrated things which had not yet been redeemed, 
nor arum (wake-robin) nor mustard. R. Simeon ben Gamaliel 
permits arum (wake-robin) to be cleared off, because it serves 
the (house) raven for food. 

Bundles of straw, bundles of stalks, and bundles of reeds 
may be handled, provided they are designed for cattle-fodder, 
otherwise they must not be handled. 

GEMARA: The Mishna says, “‘ four or five chests.’? Why 
say four or five? If five may be cleared off, surely four may! 
Said Samuel: This is said only as a customary saying; but in 
reality it means to say that any number may be cleared off; but 
by saying ‘“‘ one must not clear off a whole barn,’’ the Mishna 
means to state, that all the straw should not be removed for fear 
lest pits be noticed in the ground, and the man might fill them 
up. Even if the whole barn be full and as yet untouched, one 
may commence to remove as much as is necessary, and the 
Mishna is in accordance with the opinion of R. Simeon, who 
disregards the law of Muktza. 

The rabbis taught: One may not commence on a full barn, 
but one may remove enough, when entering, with his feet, to 

276 


TRACT SABBATH. 277 


provide an entrance, and when going out to make a way of 
egress. 

The rabbis taught: A sheaf of grain, if commenced prior to 
the Sabbath, may be used on the Sabbath; but if not, it must 
not be used on Sabbath, so saith R. A’ha, but R. Simeon permits 
this to be done. How large should the sheaf be? We have 
learned in a Boraitha that it should measure one Lethach.* 

The schoolmen propounded a question (not having heard 
Samuel’s explanation): ‘‘ How is the term ‘ four or five chests’ 
to be understood? Should a man clear off only four or five 
chests, even if that be not room enough for his guests; or should 
he do so in proportion to the number of his guests ? If according 
to the number of his guests, does it mean to say, that one man 

should clear off sufficient for all, or every man for himself ?’’ 
‘Come and hear: Rabba told in the name of R. Hyya: It once 
happened that Rabbi went out on a Sabbath to a certain place, 
and saw that the place assigned to him for lecturing was too 
small; so he went out into the field, and found the whole field 
full of sheaves. He cleared off the field, and provided sufficient 
room.’’ Thence we see that he did so in proportion to the 
number of his guests; but this narration decides only one part 
of the schoolmen’s question, viz.: the one relating to the num- 
ber of sheaves to be cleared off, but not the one relating to 
whether one man may clear off sufficient for all, or every man 
for himself. Come and hear: ‘‘ Rabbi cleared off the field,’’ etc. 
(that is, one man for all). And what think you, that Rabbi did 
this himself ? he certainly must have ordered this to be done, so it 
is not known whether one man did it, or each man for himself. 

‘* For guests,’ etc. KR. Johanan said: ‘‘ The reward for hos- 
pitality is equal to that for visiting the house of learning, for 
the Mishna saith for guests and for obstacles to instruction, thus 
putting the two causes on a par.’’ Said R. Dimi: ‘‘ Hospital- 
ity is even a greater virtue, for it is given the precedence over 
instruction.”’ 

R. Jehudah said in the name of Rabh: Hospitality is even 
a greater merit than receiving the Shekhina, as it is written 
[Genesis xviii. 3]: ‘‘ And he said, My Lord, if now I have found 
favor in thy eyes, pass not away,’’ etc. (showing that Abraham 
let the Lord wait while he went to receive his guests). Said 
R. Elazar: Come and see how the custom of the Holy One, 





* A measure of grain spoken of in Hosea iii. 2, and presumably a half of a Kur. 


278 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


blessed be He, is unlike that of human beings. An insignificant 
man cannot say toa great man: ‘‘ Stay here until I come back 
again,’’ whereas to the Holy One, blessed be He, Abraham said 
as mentioned above. 

Said R. Jehudah bar Shila in the name of R. Assi, quoting 
R. Johanan: ‘‘ There are six things, the interest on which a man 
consumes on earth, while the principal is given him in the world 
to come. They are: Hospitality, visiting the sick, contempla- 
tion before prayer, attending the house of learning, educating 
children in the Law, and charity in judging others.’’ Is this so? 
Have we not learned ina Mishna: These are the things the inter- 
est of which a man consumes on earth and the principal of 
which is given him in the world to come? ‘‘ Honoring father 
and mother, doing favors to neighbors, peace-making among 
men, and, above all, the study of the Law.’’ Now, if the Mishna 
says ‘“‘ these are the things,’’ it means no others! Nay; the 
six things previously mentioned are included in those subse- 
quently enumerated (hospitality and visiting the sick are included 
in doing favors to neighbors; contemplation before prayer is a 
favor to one’s self, as it is written [Proverbs xi. 17]: ‘‘ The man 
of kindness doth good to his own soul’’; attending the house of 
learning and educating children in the Law is included in the 
study of the Law; charity in judging others is included in peace- 
making among men, and R. Johanan does not dispute the 
Mishna, but merely expounds it). 

The rabbis taught: One who exercises charity in judging 
others is charitably dealt with when judged above. It once 
happened that a man came from upper Galilee and hired out to 
a master in southern Palestine for three years. On the last eve 
of the Day of Atonement (when his term was up) he asked his 
master for his wages, so that he could return to his wife and 
children. The master replied that he had no money. Said the 
man: “‘ Then give me my money’s worth in grain.’’ And the 
master answered: ‘‘I have it not.’’ Said the man again: 
‘“Give me my money’s worth in land,’’ and again the master 
replied: ‘‘ I have it not.’’ ‘‘ Then give me my money’s worth 
in cattle.’’ ‘‘ I have it not,’’ was the reply. ‘‘I will take my 
money’s worth in bolsters or bed-clothes,’’ pleaded the man, 
but the answer was still the same. The poor man shouldered 
his bundle and sorrowfully went away. After the holidays the 
master took the hired man’s wages and, besides, three asses; one 
laden with victuals, the second with beverages, and the third 


TRACT SABBATH. 279 


with spices, and went to his hired man’s house in Galilee. 
After having partaken of a meal together, the master paid him 
his wages, and asked him: ‘‘ When I told thee that I had not 
the money to pay thee thy wages, what didst thou suspect me 
of ?’’ The man answered: ‘‘ I thought that perhaps thou hadst 
come across a bargain and hadst paid out all thy ready money.”’ 
‘* And when thou askedst me for cattle and I refused thee, what 
didst thou think then ?’’ “‘I thought that thou hadst hired out 
thy cattle on some other farm, and thou couldst not give me any 
at the time.’’ ‘‘ And when thou askedst me for grain and I 
refused ?’’ “‘I thought perhaps thou hadst not yet paid thy 
tithes and hence thou couldst not give me any.”’ ‘‘ And when 
I refused thee land?’’ ‘‘I thought perhaps thou hadst rented 
it out.” ““ And when I refused thee bed-clothes?’” “ Then I 
thought that thou hadst devoted all thy possessions in honor of 
the Lord.”’ ‘I swear to thee, then, that such was really the 
case. I had made a vow to give away all my possessions for 
charitable purposes, because my son Hurkenes did not want to 
study the Law. Afterwards, when I came to my comrades in 
the South they released me from my vow, and as thou didst 
judge me in kindness, so may God judge thee in kindness.”’ 

The rabbis taught: A pious man once ransomed a Jewish 
maiden from captivity. When they came to a lodging-place at 
night, he laid her down at his feet. On the morrow he bathed, 
and then went out to teach his disciples. During the lesson, he 
asked his disciples: ‘‘ When I laid the damsel down at my feet 
last night, what did you suspect me of ?’’ And they answered: 
‘“ Perhaps there may be one among us who has not yet been 
tried and thou couldst not trust him, so thou laidst her near 
thee.’’ ‘“‘ And when I went inthe morning and bathed, what did 
you suspect ?’’ “ Perhaps, on account of the hardships on the 
way, thy seed of copulation ran out from thee and thou wert 
compelled to bathe.’’ ‘‘ By the Lord,’’ said the master, ‘‘ so it 
was; and as ye have judged me in kindness, so may the Lord 
judge you in kindness.”’ 

The rabbis taught: It happened that the sages had business 
with a Roman matron to whom all the great men of Rome came 
for advice, and they could not decide who should go to her. 
Finally R. Jehoshua volunteered to go, and so he and his disci- 
ples went to her. Four ells from the door of her house, R. 
Jehoshua removed his phylacteries and went in, locking the door 
behind him. When he came back he bathed, and then went 


280 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


back and taught his disciples. During the lesson he asked: 
‘‘When I removed my phylacteries, what did ye suspect ?’’ 
And they answered: ‘‘ The phylacteries are holy, and thou didst 
not wish to bring them into a profane place.’’ ‘*‘ And when I 
locked the door behind me, what did ye suspect ?’’ ‘‘ We 
thought perhaps thou hadst a secret political affair to transact 
and didst not wish us to enter.’”’ ‘‘ And when I came out and 
bathed, what did you suspect ?’’ And they replied: ‘‘ We 
thought perhaps some of the matron’s spittle had accidentally 
dropped on thy garments and thou hadst to bathe.’’ “* By the 
Lord,’’ said R. Jehoshua, ‘‘ so it happened; and as ye judged 
me in kindness, so may the Lord also judge you in kindness.”’ 

‘* Further, one may clear off heave-offerings,’ etc. Is this not 
self-evident? It might be assumed that the heave-offerings 
being in possession of a plebeian who is not allowed to partake 
of them, they must not be handled; but the Mishna comes to 
teach us, that because a priest is allowed to eat them, they may 
be handled by everybody.* 

‘‘ And dried broad-beans.’’ The rabbis taught: Hatzav (a 
certain plant the roots of which grow deep into the ground but 
do not spread) may be handled on the Sabbath, because it is 
food for deer. Mustard may be handled, because it is food for 
doves. R. Simeon ben Gamaliel said that pieces of glass may 
be handled, because ostriches eat them. Said R. Nathan: “‘ In 
this case twigs may be handled, because they serve elephants for 
food.’’ What did R. Simeon answer R. Nathan? Ostriches 
are more frequently owned by men than elephants. Said 
Ameimar: ‘‘ R. Simeon ben Gamaliel means to say, that only 
one who possesses ostriches may handle pieces of glass?’’ Said 
R. Ashi to Ameimar: ‘‘ If this is so, what did R. Nathan ques- 
tion? If one possesses elephants, he may surely handle twigs. 
So R. Nathan means to say, that because twigs serve as food for 
elephants, anybody may handle them; and the same applies to 
pieces of glass, because they serve ostriches for food, everybody 
may handle them (on the Sabbath).”’ 

‘ Bundles of straw,’’ etc. The rabbis taught: ‘‘ Bundles of 
straw, bundles of stalks, and bundles of reeds may be handled, 
provided they are designed for cattle-fodder; otherwise, they 
must not be handled.’’ R. Simeon ben Gamaliel said: ‘‘ If the 





* The discussions concerning the mixed grain and all the other subjects enumer- 
ated in the above Mishna appear again in Tract Berachoth, where we shall render 
them in the course of our work. 





TRACT SABBATH. 281 


bundles can be lifted with one hand they may be handled, but if 
not they must not be handled.’’ 

Bundles of satureia, abrotanum, and thyme, if prepared for 
fuel, must not be used on Sabbath, but if prepared for cattle- 
food may be used. Grain from an ear (of wheat, etc.) may be 
taken by hand only, but not with a vessel. One may even take 
a few grains from growing ears with his fingers, and eat them, but 
must not take them with a vessel, so saith R. Jehudah; but the 
sages say, that one may do this with his fingers, but not with 
both hands, as usually done on week-days. The same ordinance 
holds good for any other spices. 

It was taught: Salt meat may be handled on Sabbath, but 
fresh meat must not be handled, according to R. Hisda; but 
R. Huna permits this. 

The rabbis taught: Salt fish may be handled, but not stale 
unsalted fish, and meat may be handled, be it fresh or salt. 

The rabbis taught: Bones may be handled, because dogs eat 
them; putrid meat may be handled, because beasts of prey eat 
it. Uncovered water * may be handled, because cats drink it. 
R. Simeon ben Gamaliel, however, said, that all these things 
should not be kept in the house even on week-days, because they 
are dangerous. 

MISHNA: One may set a basket on end for chickens, in 
order that they may climb up or down upon it. A runaway hen 
may be chased until she goes back again. One may lead about 
calves or young asses to exercise them. A woman may lead her 
son about to give him exercise. R. Jehudah says: ‘“ When 
(may she do) this? If the child lifts one foot and sets down the 
other; but if it trails (its leg) behind, she must not.”’ 

GEMARA: Said R. Jehudah in the name of Rabh: “If a 
cow fall into a lake, it is allowed to throw into the lake bolsters, 
bundles, vessels, etc., in order to give the cow a foothold and 


enable her to get out.’’ An objection was made: We have 
learned in a Boraitha: ‘‘ If a cow fall into a lake, food may be 
brought to her in order that she may not starve to death.’’ So 


it refers only to food, but nothing is said in reference to bolsters, 
etc. This presents no difficulty. Where food can be brought 
it may be done, but when the cow cannot be reached, bolsters, 
etc., may be brought. But a vessel that is prepared for other 





* Water was never kept uncovered in the Orient for fear of snakes, and any 
water that was found uncovered was immediately thrown out. 


282 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


purposes is thereby destroyed? That is simply a rabbinical 
ordinance, but pity for creatures is a Mosaic law and has prece- 
gence. 

“A runaway hen may be chased,’ etc. The hen may be 
chased, but not led. This is a similar teaching to that of an- 
other Boraitha, wherein we have learned, that all animals and 
birds may be led about in private ground with the exception of 
ahen. Why not a hen. Said Abayi: ‘‘ Because a hen, when 
led, will not walk, but will jump and fly, and the man leading 
her will be forced to carry her.’’ 

MISHNA: On a feast-day one must not deliver cattle, 
about to give birth, of their young, but may be of assistance to 
them in any other manner. One may give a woman (about to 
give birth to a child) all assistance possible, even call a midwife 
from a distance; one may violate the Sabbath on her account and 
tie the navel-string. R. Jose says: One may also cut the string. 
Lastly, one may accomplish anything necessary for the circum- 
cision on the Sabbath. 

GEMARA: What is meant by “ being of assistance ’’? Said 
R. Jehudah: ‘‘ To hold up the young, that it may not fall,’’ and 
R. Na’hman said: ‘‘ To pull out the young by pressing the 
sides.’’ R. Jehudah’s explanation is supported by the following 
Boraitha: ‘‘ How is an animal assisted in giving birth to her 
young? By holding up the young, blowing air into its nos- 
trils, and leading it to its mother’s breast, so that it may suck.”’ 

R. Simeon ben Gamaliel said: ‘‘ When a clean animal (one 
that may be eaten) gave birth to her young on a festival and 
would not take to it, we would coerce her into taking to her off- 
spring.”’ How would this be done? Said Abayi: ‘“ They 
would bring a handful of salt, lay it in the mother’s womb, and 
the pain that would be caused thereby would remind the mother 
of her young, and she would immediately take to them, and 
they would pour the water discharged by the mother on the 
young, so that the mother would scent it and seek her young. 
This was done, however, only with a clean animal, but not with 
an unclean animal. Why so? Because usually an unclean ani- 
mal will not cast off her young, and should she do so, she will 
never take to them again.”’ 

‘One may give a woman (about to give birth to a child) all 
assistance possible.’ Wet ussee! The Mishna says, that one 
may call a midwife even from a distance, and then, that one 
may violate the Sabbath on her account, What is the object in 





TRACT SABBATH. 283 


particularizing what may be done? The Mishna means to tell 
us, what the rabbis taught, viz.: ‘‘ If a woman lying in is in 
need of a light, another woman may light a candle for her; and 
if she needs oil, the waitress may bring her oil through public 
ground in her hands; should that not be sufficient she may bring 
it in her hair, and if that does not suffice she may bring it ina 
vessel.’ 

The master said: ‘‘If a woman lying in is in need of a 
candle, another woman may light it for her.’’ Is this not self- 
evident ? He means to tell us, that even if the woman lying in 
be blind, and one might say, that being blind she needs no 
candle, hence it should not be lit; the candle should be lit for 
her at all events, for she may need a thing that others could not 
see without a light, while, by aid of the light, they would find 
it and hand it to her. 

Further, it says, that a woman may bring her oil in her hair. 
This would be worse still, for the hair would have to be wrung, 
and that would make the woman (who brought the oil) guilty of 
wringing (on Sabbath). Rabba and R. Joseph both said, that 
wringing hair does not constitute wringing within the meaning 
of the law. R. Ashi said: ‘‘ Even if wringing the hair would 
constitute wringing within the meaning of the law, the woman 
should bring the oil in a vessel which should be placed on the 
hair (head) ; for any work which must of a necessity be performed 
on a Sabbath, should be performed in as far different a manner 
from that done on a week-day as possible.”’ 

R. Jehudah said in the name of Samuel: “‘ As long as the 
womb of a woman lying in is still open, whether she says she 
must have it done or not, the Sabbath may be violated for 
her. As soon, however, as the womb is closed, the Sabbath 
may be violated only if she says she must have it done; other- 
wise, it must not be violated, so taught Mar Zutra.’” R. Ashi, 
however, taught in the name of the preceding authority, that as 
soon as the womb is closed, even if the woman says she must 
have it done, the Sabbath must not be violated on her account. 

Said Rabhina to Mareimar: ‘‘ Mar Zutra is more lenient in 
his teaching, and R. Ashi the stricter; according to whom does 
the Halakha prevail ?’’ Answered Mareimar: ‘‘ The Halakha 
according to Mar Zutra prevails, for it is the general rule, that 
wherever human lives are concerned, the more lenient teaching 
is always accepted as final.’’ 

At what time is the womb considered to be open? Abayi 


284 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


said: ‘‘ From the time the woman commences to give birth.”’ 
R. Huna the son of R. Jehoshua said: *‘ From the time blood 
commences to flow’’; and others say, from the time that she 
becomes helpless and her attendants lay her on the bed. 

How long is the womb considered to be open? Abayi said, 
for three days after birth, and Rabha in the name of R. Jehu- 
dah said, for seven days, and others say for thirty days. The 
scholars of Neherdai divide the time of a woman lying in into 
three periods of three, seven, and thirty days each. During 
the first period, whether the woman says she must have it done 
or whether she says it need not be done, the Sabbath may be 
violated for her. During the second period, if she says it must 
be done, the Sabbath may be violated; but if she says it need 
not be done, it must not be violated; and during the third period, 
even if she says she must have it done, the Sabbath must not 
be violated by Israelites, but it may be done by Gentiles. This 
is according to R. Ula the son of R. Ilai, who says, that every- 
thing which must be done for a sick person on the Sabbath 
should be done by Gentiles, and also according to R. Hamnuna, 
who said, that all things which are to be done for a person who 
is not dangerously ill, should be ordered done bya Gentile. As 
it happened with the daughter of R. Hisda (the wife of Rabba), 
who took a bath in her husband’s absence, before the thirty 
days were up, and caught cold, and friends were compelled to 
bring her, still lying in bed, to Rabba in Pumbaditha. 

Said R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel: ‘‘ A woman lying 
in should be given thirty days.’’ For what law should she be 
given thirty days? The men of Neherdai said, for bathing 
(that is, she should not bathe for thirty days, in order that she 
may not catch cold). Said Rabha: This rule applies to women 
whose husbands are not at home, for when the husband is at 
home, he can take care of his wife and prevent any bad conse- 
quences. 

R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel said again: One may 
kindle a fire for a woman lying in, on the Sabbath, and not only 
for a woman lying in, but also for a sick person; not only in the 
winter but also in the summer-time, as R. Hyya bar Abhin said 
in the name of Samuel, that one, who was bled and caught cold, 
may have a fire made for him on Sabbath not only in the winter, 
but also in the summer-time. Samuel once was bled and caught 
cold, so a chair made of elm-wood was chopped up and a fire 
made for him (on Sabbath). The same thing happened to 





TRACT “SABBATH. 285 


R. Jehudah; so a table of cedar-wood was chopped up and a fire 
made for him. Rabba had the same experience and a stool 
was used to make a fire, and when told by Abayi that he was 
guilty of destroying a useful article said: ‘‘ My personal wel- 
fare is dearer to me than the article.”’ 

Said R. Jehudah in the name of Rabh: ‘‘ A man should sell 
even the roof of his house and buy shoes for himself if in need 
of them; but if he had recently been bled and feels hungry, he 
should sell even these shoes and buy food with the proceeds.’’ 
What kind of food should he purchase? Rabh said meat, and 
Samuel, wine. Rabh said meat, as being a substitute for flesh 
lost through bleeding, and Samuel said (red) wine, as a substi- 
tute for (red) blood. 

When Samuel had himself bled, a dish made of milt was 
prepared for him, and R. Johanan would drink wine until it 
could be smelt through his ears. R.Na’hman would drink wine 
until his spleen would float in wine. R. Joseph would drink 
wine until his veins would swell so that the lancet would be 
forced out, and Rabha would drink only wine that was three 
years old. 

Said R. Na’hman bar Itz’hak to his disciples: I beg of you, 
that on the day on which you have yourselves bled, you should 
go home and say that Na’hman will come to visit you. (In con- 
sequence a good meal and wine will be prepared, and you can 
partake of it.) Deceit is not permitted under any circumstances, 
but those mentioned as follows: 

One who is bled, and has not the money to buy wine, should 
take a mutilated Zuz and go to seven wine-dealers. When ask- 
ing for wine he will be given some to taste, and when offering 
his money, it will be rejected. He will then proceed to another 
dealer, and keep on until he will have drunk a quarter of a lug. 
One who cannot even do this, should eat at least seven black 
dates and should put oil on his temples, then lie down in the sun 
and go to sleep. 

Abhlat (a Persian official) found Samuel sleeping in the sun 
and said to him: ‘* Thou leader of Jews! Can a good thing 
emanate from a bad one ?’’ Samuel answered: ‘‘ This is my 
bleeding-day.’’ In reality this was not so, but there are days 
when sleeping in the sun is healthful; for instance, on the day 
when the Tamuz (July) equinox falls, but Samuel, who was a 
physician, would not tell this to Abhlat. 

Rabh and Samuel both said: ‘‘ The man who eats a light 


VOL. Il.—7 


286 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


meal on the day when he is bled, has light earnings decreed for 
him in heaven for the following year, because if he himself has 
no pity for his own body, he is not worthy of being pitied by 
the heavenly host.’’ The same two authorities also said, that 
one who was bled should not sit where the wind blows; for it 
may be that the surgeon who bled him allowed too much blood 
to escape, and the wind might force still more blood from him, 
and thus become dangerous. Samuel was always bled in a 
house the walls of which were of seven bricks’ thickness, and 
at one time it happened that he felt weak; he looked up, and 
noticed that a brick was missing from the wall. 

Rabh and Samuel also said, that a man who was bled should 
not go out into the street without having partaken of some- 
thing. If he does and meets a corpse, his face turns yellow, 
and if he should happen to meet a murderer he will die himself, 
and if he meets a pig he will become scabby. They also said, 
that after bleeding a man should not rise immediately, but 
should rest a while and then get up; for the master said, that 
five things are more conducive to death than to life. They are: 
Eating and arising immediately, drinking and arising, sleeping 
and arising, being bled and arising, and having sexual inter- 
course and arising immediately afterwards. 

Samuel said: ‘‘ A young man should be bled every thirty 
days until he is forty years of age. From forty to sixty he 
should be bled every two months, and after sixty he should be 
bled every three or four months.”’ 

Samuel said again: The fourth day of the week, if falling 
on the fourth, fourteenth, or twenty-fourth day of the month, 
or if it is a Wednesday after which there are less than four days 
to the end of the month, is a dangerous day for bleeding. Bleed- 
ing on the first and second of every month produces weakness, 
and on the third day it is dangerous. Bleeding on the eve of 
any biblical festival produces weakness, and on the eve of Pen- 
tecost it is dangerous, in consequence of which the rabbis insti- 
tuted the precautionary measure, that no man should be bled on 
the eve of a festival, for fear that he might have it done on the’ 
eve of Pentecost. 

Again Samuel said: ‘‘ One who had eaten heartily of wheaten 
food is not wholly benefited by being bled, but is simply eased 
for the time being.’’ This means to say, then, that one who has 
a heavy feeling can ease himself ¢emporarily by being bled after 
a meal, but is not permanently benefited thereby. After being 


TRACY SABLBAIH. 287 


bled one may drink immediately, but should not eat until the 
time in which he could walk half a mile had elapsed. 

(On a day when nothing profitable had been performed) Rabh 
used to proclaim (the following simile): If one bled a hundred 
persons, he earned a Zuz for each; if he cut the hair of a hun- 
dred persons, he earned a Zuz for each; but if he trimmed the 
mustaches of a hundred men, he labored in vain.* (There was 
no charge made for trimming mustaches when done in conjunc- 
tion with hair-cutting or bleeding.) Said R. Joseph: We learned 
at the college of R. Huna, that a day on which the disciples did 
not study was called a mustache-day, and I did not understand 
the meaning of the term; but now I can see the significance 
of the expression, for it means to say that the day was lost. 

“And tie the navel-string.’’ The rabbis taught: ‘‘ One 
may tie the navel-string,’’ and R. Jose said: ‘‘ One may cut it 
also on the Sabbath and deposit the afterbirth, which is sup- 
posed to be a remedy to keep the child warm.’’ R. Simeon ben 
Gamaliel said: ‘‘ Daughters of kings would deposit the after- 
birth in a bowl of oil and rich men’s daughters would deposit it 
in carded wool. Poor people would deposit it in feathers.”’ 
Said R. Na’hman in the name of Rabba bar Abuha, quoting 
Rabh: ‘‘ The Halakha according to R. Jose prevails.’’ 

k. Na’hman said again, quoting the same authorities: ‘‘ The 
rabbis agree with R. Jose, that when two children were born, 
both attached to one navel-string, the latter may be cut, because 
otherwise it would be dangerous.’’ He also said again, in the 
name of the same authorities: All that is contained in the ser- 
mon of Ezekiel may be done for a woman lying in on Sabbath, 
as it is written [Ezekiel xvi. 4]: ‘‘ And as for thy birth, on the 
day thou wast born thy navel was not cut, nor wast thou washed 
in water to be cleansed; and thou wast not rubbed with salt, 
nor wrapped in swaddling clothes.’’ ‘‘ And as for thy birth,’’ 
from this we may infer, that one may assist in the birth of a 
child on Sabbath. ‘* Thy navel was not cut,’’ from this we infer, 
that the navel may be cut on Sabbath. ‘‘ Nor wast thou washed 
in water to be cleansed.’’ This teaches us that the child may 
be washed on Sabbath. ‘‘ Thou wast not rubbed with salt.’’ 
From this we know, that a child may be rubbed with salt on 
Sabbath. “‘ Nor wrapped in swaddling clothes.’’ This teaches 
us, that we may wrap a child in clothes on the Sabbath. . 





* This explanation is the one given by the commentary of Tosphath, which seems 
to us to be more to the point than the one given by Rashi. 


CHAPTER XIX. 


REGULATIONS ORDAINED BY R. ELIEZER CONCERNING CIRCUMCISION 
ON THE SABBATH. 


MISHNA: R. Eliezer saith: If the knife used for circum- 
cision was not brought on the day preceding the Sabbath, one is 
to bring it publicly on the Sabbath; in times of danger (during 
persecutions) one may conceal it (about the person) before wit- 
nesses. Further, R. Eliezer saith: One may even cut wood to 
be burnt into charcoal, in order to forge an iron instrument 
(knife for circumcision). The following rule was laid down by 
R. Aqiba: All work (necessary in aid of circumcision) which 
could have been performed on the day before (Sabbath) does not 
supersede (the observance of) the Sabbath, but such work as 
could zot have been performed on the day before, does supersede 
(the observance of) the Sabbath. 

GEMARA: A question was propounded by the schoolmen: 
‘‘ What does R. Eliezer mean by saying, ‘one is to bring it 
publicly on the Sabbath’? Doe she mean to say, that the man 
thereby demonstrates how dear a commandment (of the Lord) is 
to him, that he is ready to violate the Sabbath for its sake, or is 
it rather, because the man would be suspected of carrying a 
prohibited thing on the Sabbath, if he did so surreptitiously ? 7 
What difference does it make what R. Eliezer meant ? The dif- 
ference is this: ‘‘ If the man does it in order to allay suspicion, 
it would be sufficient to have two witnesses see him conceal the 
knife about his person and then carry it even in times of peace; 
but if the man does it in order to demonstrate his love of God's 
commandments, he must carry it publicly even if he have two 
witnesses.”’ What is the conclusion? It was taught that 
R. Levi said: ‘‘ R. Eliezer meant only for the man to demon- 
strate his veneration of God’s commandments.’’ This is sup- 
ported by a Boraitha, which plainly states, that a man should 
carry it publicly, and not have it concealed, such are the words 
of R. Eliezer. Said R. Ashi: All this is unnecessary. Our 


Mishna plainly teaches us the same, for it says, that only in 
288 


TRACT SABBATH. 289 


times of danger the knife should be concealed, and it is easily 
understood that only in times of danger is this to be done, but 
not under ordinary circumstances, and for what purpose ? Only 
to show that a commandment should be venerated. It follows, 
therefrom, that the argument is accepted. 

We have learned in another Boraitha: ‘‘ One is to bring it 
publicly,’’ and not have it concealed, such are the words of 
R. Eliezer; and R. Jehudah said in the name of R. Eliezer, 
that in times of danger the custom was to conceal it about the 
person before two witnesses. 

‘“* Further, saith R. Eltezer,’’ etc. The rabbis taught: In the 
place where R. Eliezer resided, wood was cut and burnt into 
charcoal, in order to forge an instrument (knife for circumcision) 
on Sabbath. In the place where R. Jose of Galilee lived, fowls 
were eaten with milk. R. Itz’hak said: There was a city in 
Palestine where R. Eliezer’s teaching was carried out, and there 
were no premature deaths in that city; and not only this, but at 
one time when the government prohibited circumcision in the 
entire land, that city was not included in the decree. 

We have learned in a Boraitha: R. Simeon ben Gamaliel 
said: ‘‘ Every commandment of the Lord which was received 
by the children of Israel with joy, for instance circumcision, 
concerning which it is written [Psalms cxix. 162]: ‘I am 
rejoiced over thy promise,* as one that findeth great spoil,’ is 
even now observed with joy; but every commandment which 
was received with protest, for instance the law of incestuous 
marriages, concerning which it is written [Numbers xi. Io]: 
‘And Moses heard the people weep according to their families,’ 
meaning the case (of intermarriage) among the families, is even 
now observed reluctantly, for there are no marriages celebrated 
without some discord among the families.”’ 

We have learned, that R. Simeon ben Elazar said: ‘‘ Every 
commandment for the observance of which the Israelites were 
ready to lay down their lives, as for that prohibiting idolatry and 
commanding circumcision, is observed punctually even to this 
day; but such commandments as they would not sacrifice them- 
selves for are even now lightly regarded, as is the case with 
the commandment concerning Tephillin.’” As R. Yanai said: 





* Promise stands for the Hebrew ‘‘ Imrothecho,” literally ‘‘ thy word,” and the 
word here referred to signifies the first commandment given to Abraham, which was 
the commandment of circumcision. Hence the deduction, that the commandment 
of circumcision was received with joy.—ashz. 


290 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


‘*Tephillin require a clean body, such as Elisha the man of 
doves possessed.’’ What is meant by a clean body? Abayi 
said: ‘‘A body that emits no odor when clothed with Tephillin,”’ 
and Rabha said: “‘ A body that will never become drowsy while 
wearing Tephillin.’’ Why was Elisha called ‘“‘the man of 
wings’’? It once happened that the government promulgated 
a decree by which all Israelites who would use Tephillin (phy- 
lacteries) were to be decapitated. This Elisha donned his phy- 
lacteries and went out into the market. He was seen by a casdor 
(questor), and the latter pursued him. Seeing that he could not 
escape, Elisha took the phylacteries from his head and carried 
them in his hand. When questioned by the questor what he 
carried in his hand, he replied: ‘‘ Wings of doves.’’ When 
opening his hand, he really found doves’ wings,* and was there- 
fore called the man of wings ever afterwards. 

R. Aba the son of R. Ada said in the name of R. Itz’hak: 
“It once happened, that having forgotten to bring the knife for 
circumcision on the day before Sabbath, a man brought it on 
Sabbath, by way of the roof and private ground, against the 
will of R. Eliezer.’’ R. Joseph opposed this: ‘‘ How canst thou 
say, that this occurred against the will of R. Eliezer? It was 
Rk. Eliezer himself who permitted bringing the knife on Sabbath? 
Thou wouldst infer, then, that bringing the knife by way of pri- 
vate ground, and not publicly, was against his will, because he 





* This seeming miracle is explained at length in our History of Amulets, pp. 
24-26, and the gist of the explanation is as follows: The government referred to 
above and in power at the time of Elisha was Greek and not Roman, a fact demon- 
strated by the late Dr. Krochmal in his ‘‘ Eyon tephilah.” The Greeks, being at that 
time at war with the Egyptians, sought to destroy any ties of affinity existing 
between the Jews and the Egyptians, and to that end promulgated the decree pro- 
hibiting the wearing of Tephillin by the Jews, for those Tephillin bore close resem- 
blance to the totaphoth (amulets) worn by the Egyptians. As a matter of fact, all 
amulets worn at that time by the different nations bore a symbol of their gods or 
idols, and was also a mark of nationality ; hence the government in power desired 
that all its vassals wear its own amulets. The Talmud elsewhere relates that the 
Samaritans worshipped as their idol the form of a dove, for on Mount Gerizim, 
which is in Samaritan territory, an idol of that kind was found, which had been 
worshipped by them. Elisha knew of this, and, mindful of the fact that the Greeks 
were at peace with the Samaritans, carried along with him amulets in the form of 
doves’ wings (which was the amulet of the Samaritans) in order to substitute them 
for his Tephillin, whenever the necessity for the deception arose. When closely 
pressed by the questor, and not considering the commandment of wearing Tephillin 
sufficiently important to sacrifice his life on their account, he, while endeavoring 
to escape, changed his Tephillin for the doves’ wings, to which the quzstor could 
raise no objection. 





ERACT SABBATH. 291 


insists that the knife should be brought publicly through public 
ground only. In accordance with whose will was it done? If 
thou wilt say, it was done in accordance with the decree of the 
rabbis, who prohibit bringing the knife through public ground, 
and permit it through private ground and roofs, did the rabbis 
indeed permit this? Have we not learned in a Boraitha, that in 
the same measure as it is not allowed to bring the knife through 
public ground, it must also not be brought through roofs and 
private ground?’’ Therefore R. Ashi supplemented the state- 
ment of R. Aba by adding, that the knife was brought against 
the will of R. Eliezer and zs opponents , but in accordance with 
the decree of R. Simeon, who permits the carrying of every- 
thing through private ground and roofs, even if they were not 
combined by an Erub (in Tract Erubim). 

R. Zera once found R. Assi sitting and saying: R. Simeon 
ben Lakish said in the name of R. Jehudah Hanassi as follows: 
It once happened that they forgot to bring a knife for circumci- 
sion on the eve of Sabbath, so they brought it on Sabbath. 
This angered the sages very much, for the reason, that the decree 
of the former sages had been set aside and that they had acted 
according to the decree of R. Eliezer. Firstly, because R. 
Eliezer was an adherent of the school of Shamai; and secondly, 
because where one man is opposed to a number the majority 
should prevail, and the majority was against R. Eliezer; and 
R. Osiah answered the sages, who were angered, that the case 
was not as it appeared to them. ‘‘ For,’’ said he, ‘‘I asked 
R. Jehudah the circumciser, and he told me, that the knife 
was brought through an alley which was not combined by 
an Erub, from one end to the other, but not through public 
eround.”’ 

R. Zera then said to R. Assi: ‘‘ Does the master hold, that 
things may be removed in an alley which was not combined by 
an Erub?’’ R. Assi answered, that they might. Said R. Zera 
again: ‘‘ Did I not ask thee once before and thou gavest me 
another answer? Was it because thou wast engaged in other 
matters and this Halakha escaped thee ?’’ and the answer was: 
‘* Such was the case.”’ 

R. Hyya bar Aba said in the name of R. Johanan: ‘‘ The 
rule laid down by R. Eliezer, that for everything pertaining to 
circumcision the Sabbath may be violated, does not apply also 
to other duties of the day which should happen to fall on the 
Sabbath; because, where the preparations necessary for the 


292 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


bringing of the two loaves on Pentecost are concerned, R. Elie- 
zer permitted them to be made on Sabbath merely through 
deduction by analogy, although this was also a duty of the day 
based on a biblical ordinance.’’ Which other duties of the 
day does R. Johanan intend to except from this rule? We 
know, that in preparing the booth, the palm-branch, and all 
their accessories (for the feast of Booths) the Sabbath may 
be violated. The same is the case with Lulab, with Matza, 
and with Shofar, as it is stated in other Boraithas. Such is 
the dictum of R. Eliezer. Said R. Ada bar Ahabha: ‘‘R. 
Johanan intended to except Tzitzith (show-threads) for a gar- 
ment and a Mezuzah (door-post inscription) for a house (al- 
though both of these are duties of the day, for if a man wear 
a garment he must have Tzitzith, and if he enter a house he 
must have a Mezuzah.)’’ This we have also learned in a Bo- 
raitha: ‘‘ They all agree (even R. Eliezer), that if one made a 
show-thread for his garment, or a Mezuzah for his door, on the 
Sabbath, he is liable for a sin-offering.’’ Whyso? Said R. 
Joseph: ‘‘ Because no specified time is set for the accomplish- 
ment of these duties.’” Said Abayi to him: ‘* On the contrary, 
just because no specified time was set for the accomplishment of 
that duty, every moment is the time for performing it (so, if he 
have the garment on Sabbath, or enter the house on that day, he 
should perform those duties, and hence it must be considered a 
duty of the day).’’ Therefore said R. Na’hman in the name of 
R. Itz’hak, and according to others R. Huna the son of R. 
Jehoshua: “‘ The reason is, because one is enabled to abandon 
these things for the time being (and hence the duty does not 
devolve upon him for that day).”’ 

From what we have learned above, we see, that for the cir- 
cumcision itself and all its necessary accessories the Sabbath 
may be violated, according to the dictum of R. Eliezer. Whence 
does he deduce this? This is the reasoning of R. Eliezer: It 
is written [Leviticus xii. 3]: ‘‘ And on the eighth day shall the 
flesh of his foreskin be circumcised.’’ Thus, as it says dis- 
tinctly the eighth day, it makes no difference what day the 
eighth falls on, whether it be Sabbath or not. Let us see: The 
rabbis and R. Eliezer differ only as far as the preparations for 
circumcision on the Sabbath are concerned, but not as to the 
circumcision itself. If, then, they do not regard the text quoted 
as does R. Eliezer, they should not even permit the violation 
of the Sabbath on account of circumcision itself. What source 


TRACT SABBATH. 293 


do they base their permission on? Said Ula, and also R. Itz- 
‘hak: “‘ This is traditional.’’ 

An objection was raised: We have learned that the Sabbath 
may be violated in order to save life. Whence do we know this ? 
Said R. Elazar ben Azariah: ‘‘ Why! if it be permitted when 
circumcision is concerned to violate the Sabbath, where but 
one of the many members of the body is concerned, it should 
certainly be permitted in so much greater a degree when the 
whole body is to be saved. If thou sayest, then, that the per- 
mission to perform circumcision on the Sabbath is only tradi- 
tional, how is it possible that thou shouldst derive an a fortiorz 
assumption from a traditional institution ?’’ Therefore R. Jo- 
hanan saith, that the permission to perform the rite of circum- 
cision on Sabbath is not based upon tradition, but is derived 


from the word ‘‘ day,’’ as the verse quoted above reads: ‘‘ And 
on the eighth day,’’ etc.; whereas it could read simply, ‘‘ And 
on the eighth’’; for in the preceding verse we read ‘‘ seven 
days,’’ etc. 


Said Resh Lakish to R. Johanan: ‘‘ The word ‘ day,’ however, 
is also necessary, that we may know that the rite must be per- 
formed during the day and not at night!’’ This can be inferred 
from another passage [Genesis xvii. 12], where it expressly says: 
‘““ And at eight days old shall every man-childin your generations 
be circumcised,”’ etc. 

R. A’ha bar Jacob said: As far as the rite of circumcision 
itself is concerned, the rabbis also hold that the permission to 
perform it is based on the passage quoted, “‘ and on the eighth 
day’’; but as for the preparations necessary for circumcision, 
they claim to find no justification for violating the Sabbath on 
that account. But it is absolutely necessary that ‘‘ the eighth’’ 
be mentioned, for otherwise how would we know that the rite 
should not be performed on the seventh? That is also definitely 
settled by the other passage, as stated above: “‘ And at eight 
days old,’’ etc. Still, both passages are necessary, in order to 
prove that the eighth day is the day for circumcision; because, 
if it did not state expressly ‘‘ on the eighth day,’’ it might be 
presumed that the seventh day would do, and if it did not state 
““at eight days old,’’ it might be presumed that after the child 
is eight days old any other later day, ¢.g., the ninth, would do. 
Hence R. Johanan’s explanation is the most acceptable; and we 
have learned in a Boraitha in support of R. Johanan’s explana- 
tion, and not of that of R. A’ha bar Jacob, as follows: ‘‘ On 


294 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


the eighth day shall he be circumcised, even though it be Sab- 
bath.’’ How, then, is it possible to keep the commandment in 
Exodus xxxi. 14? ‘‘ And ye shall keep the Sabbath, for it is 
holy unto you: every one that defileth it shall surely be put to 
death.’’ This refers to other labor, but not to that of circumci- 
sion. How, then, do we know that circumcision is not included 
in the prohibited labor, and that the eighth day does not refer 
to all other days except Sabbath? To this end it reads “‘ the 
eighth day,’’ and ‘‘ day’’ means, even on Sabbath. 

The rabbis taught: Although it is written [Deut. xxiv. 8]: 
‘‘ Take heed in the plague of leprosy,’’ which signifies, that the 
leprous spot must not be cut; but if the white spot (the symp- 
tom of leprosy) show itself on the member to be circumcised, 
it may be cut off, whether the member be circumcised at the 
prescribed time or afterwards. 

A biblical festival must not be violated on account of circum- 
cision, unless it happen to be the eighth day (precisely the pre- 
scribed time). Whence do we adduce these two ordinances ? 
From the teaching of the rabbis, as follows: The first one is 
based on the verse [Leviticus xii. 3]: ‘‘ And on the eighth day 
shall the flesh of his foreskin be circumcised.’’ The order is 
imperative, regardless of whether the member be leprous or not. 
Whence do we know this? Perhaps it means to say, that only 
the healthy flesh of the foreskin be circumcised ? Nay; it could 
say merely the foreskin, but it says expressly the flesh of the 
foreskin, meaning that even if the flesh be leprous it should also 
be circumcised. | What need is there of a special verse for this 
purpose? During circumcision no intention to cut leprous flesh 
exists; hence, if it be done, it is done unintentionally, and an 
unintentional act does not involve culpability ? Said Abayi: 
‘‘ The verse is used here to counteract the opinion of R. Jehu- 
dah, who holds, that an act committed unintentionally also 
involves culpability.’’ Rabha said: ‘‘ The verse must be used, 
even if the opinion of R. Simeon be adhered to, who holds, 
that an act committed unintentionally does not involve culpabil- 
ity. For in this case it is different; the act committed here is 
like the one where a man would behead another and still claim 
no intention to kill him (and when circumcising the flesh of the 
foreskin, if there be a leprous sore, one cannot help but cut it). 
This, even R. Simeon admits, would involve culpability, were it 
not for that exonerating verse.’’ Does Rabha alone hold thus ? 
- Have we not learned elsewhere that Abayi and Rabha both 





TRACT SABBATH. 795 


agree, that R. Simeon declares even an unintentional act, which 
is, however, like the case of one beheading another without the 
intention to kill him, to be prohibited? After Abayi had heard 
RKabha’s explanation, he accepted it. ; 

The second ordinance mentioned is, according to Rabha, 
based upon the verse [Exodus xii. 16]: ‘‘ No manner of work 
shall be done on them, save what is eaten by every man; that 
only may be prepared by you.”’ ‘‘ That’’ stands for circumci- 
sion only in its prescribed time, but not for the preparation for 
it; and “‘ only’’ stands as a prohibition not to perform the rite 
unless it be the prescribed time. R. Ashi, however, said: ‘‘ No 
special verse is needed for this, for a festival is referred to [in 
Leviticus xxiii. 32] as ‘‘ a sabbath of rest shall it be unto you.”’ 
Hence it is a positive commandment, and the verse stated (imme- 
diately before this) is a negative commandment; thus a festival 
is covered by both a positive and negative commandment, while 
circumcision is covered by a positive commandment only, and 
one positive commandment cannot supersede a joint positive and 
negative commandment. 

“A rule was laid down by R. Aqiba.’’ Said R. Jehudah in 
the name of Rabh: ‘‘ The Halakha according to R. Aqiba pre- 
vails.’’ We have learned also in the matter of Passover sacri- 
fices to the same effect, that every act of labor that can be per- 
formed on the day before Sabbath must not supersede the 
(due observance of) Sabbath, but the killing of the sacrifice, 
which cannot be done on the day before Sabbath, does supersede 
(the due observance of) Sabbath; and R. Jehudah declared also, 
in the name of Rabh, that the Halakha according to R. Aqiba 
prevails. It is necessary that he should so instruct us at both 
times, because, if he instructed only as concerns circumcision, 
we might assume that where sacrifices for the Passover are con- 
cerned, the preparations which could have been made on the day 
before Sabbath, but were not, would supersede the due observ- 
ance of the Sabbath; because failure to bring that sacrifice 
would involve the punishment of Karath (being cut off), while 
failure in circumcision would not involve Karath, if not per- 
formed at the right time; and, on the other hand, had he 
instructed us only as concerns sacrifices for the Passover, we 
might assume that the Sabbath could be violated if the acts 
necessary for circumcision which could have been performed on 
the day before, were not; for the reason, that the covenant 
regarding circumcision is mentioned thirteen times in the Thora, 


296 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


and is in consequence regarded as a thirteenfold commandment, 
which must under all circumstances be observed. Hence the 
necessity for the twofold instruction. 

MISHNA: One may perform everything necessary for cir- 
cumcision on the Sabbath, as circumcising, tearing open, suck- 
ing out the blood, applying a plaster or caraway seed. Jif ‘the 
latter had not been ground before the Sabbath, one may masti- 
cate it with the teeth and then apply it. If one had not mixed 
wine with oil before the Sabbath, he may apply each separately. 
One must not prepare an actual bandage (on the Sabbath), but 
may apply an old piece of linen; and if such had not been pre- 
pared before the Sabbath, the circumciser may bring it with him 
tied around his finger and even from another court (yard). 

GEMARA: Let us see: The Mishna enumerates all the acts 
necessary for the performance of the rite of circumcision; why, 
then, does it commence by saying, ‘‘ everything necessary ” for 
circumcision, and then proceed to detail “‘ everything’? What 
act is there that has not been enumerated ? The Mishna means 
to include what was taught us by the rabbis, as follows: “ The 
circumciser, while engaged in finishing the circumcision, if notic- 
ing that excrescences still remain on the gland, whether they are 
of a nature which make the circumcision invalid or such as do 
not make it invalid, may remove them. But if he had already 
finished (and put up his instruments), if excrescences which 
make the circumcision invalid remain, he may remove them; 
but if they do not make the circumcision invalid, he must not 
remove them.’’ (Hence by stating ‘‘ everything that is neces- 
sary,’’ etc., the Mishna means to include, that it is permitted 
even to remove excrescences which do not make the circumcision 
invalid, provided the operator had not already finished and put 
up his instruments.) Who is the Tana who holds, that if the 
circumciser had already finished he must not return and remove 
the excrescences ? Said Rabha bar bar Hana in the name of R. 
Johanan, it was R. Ishmael the son of R. Johanan ben Berokah, 
as we have learned in a Boraitha: ‘‘ If the fourteenth of Nissan 
fall on a Sabbath, the animal used for the Passover sacrifice may 
be skinned only as far as the breast, so saith R. Ishmael the son 
of R. Johanan ben Berokah; but the sages say, that the whole 
animal may be skinned.’’ (Now, we see that R. Ishmael holds, 
that after the work had been completed as far as was necessary 
no more may be done; hence he is the one who says, that the 
circumciser must not return to remove the excrescences.) This 





TRACT SABBATH. 297 


is not conclusive evidence! It may be that R. Ishmael in the 
case of the sacrifice holds, that because it is not necessary that 
the commandment be beautified.* But in the case of circum- 
cision, where the beautifying of the commandment is necessary 
(as is taught in Tract Sakkah), we might say, that R. Ishmael is 
of a different opinion; therefore the sages of Neherdai say, that 
the Tanas who hold, that after having finished the circumcision 
the operator must not commence anew, are in reality the rabbis 
who differ with R. Jose in Tract Menachoth concerning the law 
of the showbreads.+ 

The rabbis taught: ‘‘ If excrescences remain on the gland 
after circumcision, and are such as make the circumcision in- 
valid, they must be removed; and failure to do so involves the 
punishment of Karath.’’ Who becomes liable to be punished 
by Karath? Said R. Kahana: ‘‘ The circumciser.”’ (If he per- 
formed the circumcision on Sabbath and did not finish it, he 
simply made a wound and did not perform a commandment ; 
hence he becomes amenable to Karath. R. Papa opposed this: 
‘ The circumciser might say, ‘I have performed one half of a 
commandment; come ye and complete the other half. Why 
should I be punished by Karath ?’ Therefore if the circumcision 
was performed on an adult who, excrescences which make it 
invalid having remained, will not permit them to be removed, 
he becomes amenable to Karath.’’ This was opposed by R. 
Ashi: “‘ As for an adult, what news does that impart to us? It 
is expressly stated [Genesis xvii. 14]: ‘ And any uncircumcised 
male, who circumciseth not the flesh of his foreskin, that soul 
shall be cut off from his people’? Therefore he says nay; it 
really refers to the circumciser, and only then if he came late on 
Sabbath, near twilight, and was told that it would be impossible 
to finish the operation before night, but persisted in performing 
it. If in consequence he left excrescences which make the cir- 
cumcision invalid, he simply made a wound without performing 
a commandment, and thus he becomes amenable to Karath.”’ 

“ Sucking out the blood.’’ WR. Papa said: ‘‘ The circumciser 
who does not suck out the wound places the child in danger, 
and should be discharged from office.’’ Is this not self-evident ? 





*The Hebrew word ‘‘ Veanvehu ” is interpreted by the Talmud to signify ‘‘ and I 
will beautify him,” while in the translation of the Bible, by I. Leeser, it is translated, 
‘‘T will sing his praise,” and the reference made to the verse by the Talmud accepts 
the term in its Talmudical sense. 

+ This will be explained in the Tract Menachoth. 


298 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


It certainly must be dangerous not to do this, or the Sabbath 
would not be violated in order to perform that duty! We might 
assume, that the blood having already come to the surface it 
would run out of itself, and hence by sucking it out the Sab- 
bath is not violated; hence we are given to understand that this 
is not so: the blood is moved only by the suction, and the Sab- 
bath is violated; but failure to do this would involve danger for 
the child and hence it is permitted, and is regarded the same as 
applying a plaster or caraway seeds (mentioned further on in the 
Mishna), the omission of which would also involve danger to 
the child. 

“ Applying a plaster or caraway seeds.’’ Abayi said: ‘‘ My 
mother told me, that the most effective plaster for all ills is 
made of seven different kinds of fat and one kind of wax’’; and 
Rabha said: ‘‘ The best plaster for all ills is one made of wax 
and resin.’” Rabha stated this publicly in a lecture in the city 
of Mehuzza, and two brothers the sons of Minyumi, who were 
physicians, tore their clothes in anger; for they had known of it 
and made capital out of the secret, until Rabha came and 
revealed it. Said Rabha to them: “I will tell you of some- 
thing that I shall not proclaim publicly, and that is, Samuel 
said, that one who washes his face and does not dry it thor- 
oughly, becomes afflicted with scabs, and the remedy for such is 
the fluid extract of mangold.”’ 

‘“‘ Tf the latter (caraway seeds) had not been ground before the 
Sabbath,’’ etc. The rabbis taught: “‘ In preparing for circumci- 
sion, such things as must not be done on Sabbath, may be done 
on a festival. One may grind the seeds and mix wine with oil.”’ 
Asked Abayi of R. Joseph: Why may the caraway seeds be 
ground on a festival ? because they may be utilized for cooking: 
then why should it not be permitted to mix wine with oil on 
Sabbath ? It may be utilized for a sick person who is not dan- 
gerously ill. As we have learned in a Boraitha: ‘‘ Wine and oil 
must not be mixed for a sick person on the Sabbath,’’ but R. 
Simeon ben Elazar in the name of R. Meir said, that it may 
be. Said R. Simeon ben Elazar: It once happened, that R. 
Meir was sick with stomach trouble, and we wanted to mix wine 
with oil for him (on the Sabbath), but he would not permit us 
to do this. So we asked him whether he wished his own words 
to be made void during his lifetime, and he answered: ‘* Nay; it 
is allowed to mix wine with oil on Sabbath, but I cannot bring 
it over me to act contrary to the decree of my colleagues.”’ 


TRACT SABBATH. 299 


Thus we see, that it is at all events allowed to mix wine with oil 
on the Sabbath. Why, then, does the Mishna say, that if this 
was not done on the day before the Sabbath, each should be 
applied separately ? The difference lies therein, that when 
giving it to a sick person, it is merely mixed, but when used for 
a balm (at circumcision) it must be thoroughly stirred and re- 
quires a good deal of labor. Let it be given (applied) just 
mixed. That is just what the Mishna prescribes, each to be 
applied separately; z.¢., it should not be stirred. 

Abayi said: ‘‘ My mother told me, that if a child appears 
red all over it is a sign that the circulation is imperfect, and 
hence circumcision should be postponed until the circulation is 
perfect. Ifa child has a greenish cast it is a sign that the blood 
is impoverished, and circumcision should then be postponed 
until the blood is richer.’’ This we have also learned in a Bo- 
raitha, as follows: ‘‘ R. Nathan said: ‘I once went to a city by 
the sea, and there met a woman whose first and second child 
both died in consequence of circumcision. The third child she 
brought to me, and I noticed that it was quite red. I told her 
to wait until the blood had settled and then circumcise it. She 
did so and then circumcised it, and the child lived. The child 
was then named after me, Nathan the Babylonian. At another 
time I came to the country of Cappadocia, and a woman came 
to me telling me that she had had two children circumcised, both 
of whom had died in consequence of circumcision. The third 
she brought to me, and I noticed that it had a greenish cast. I 
also noticed, that if it were circumcised no blood would flow; so 
I told her to wait until the circulation of the blood was in order. 
She did so, and the child was circumcised, and lived. She 
named it also after me, and called it Nathan the Babylonian.’ ’’ 

MISHNA: One may bathe the child both before the circum- 
cision as well as after (on Sabbath), by sprinkling water over it 
with the hand, but not by pouring water over it from a vessel. 
R. Eliezer ben Azariah says: One may bathe a child on the 
third day (after the circumcision), even if it fall on a Sabbath; for 
it is written [Genesis xxxiv. 25]: ‘‘ And it came to pass on the 
third day, when they were sore.’’ On account of a doubtful 
child (a child about which there is a doubt whether it was born 
in the eighth month of its gestation, and is therefore not ex- 
pected to live) or an hermaphrodite, the Sabbath (-rest) must not 
be desecrated. R. Jehudah permits this in the case of an her- 
maphrodite. 


300 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


GEMARA: The Mishna commences by saying: ‘‘ One may 
bathe the child,’’ and then goes on to say that it may only be 
sprinkled by hand. That is not bathing! Said Rabha: ‘‘ The 
Mishna means to state, that a child may be bathed as usual on 
the day of circumcision, either before or after the performance 
of the rite; but on the third day after circumcision, if that day 
should be a Sabbath, one may only sprinkle the child by hand, 
and not bathe it in a vessel.’’ R. Elazar ben Azariah, however, 
said, that even if the third day fall on a Sabbath the child may 
be bathed as usual, as it is written [Gen. xxxiv. 15]: “‘ And it 
came to pass on the third day, when they were sore.”’ 

When R. Dimi came from Palestine, he said in the name of 
R. Elazar, that the Halakha prevails according to R. Elazar ben 
Azariah. Inthe West the question was discussed whether R. 
Elazar ben Azariah meant that the whole body of the child 
might be bathed, or whether the part circumcised only might be 
bathed. Said one of the rabbis, whose name was R. Jacob: “ It 
seems to me that the whole body is meant, because if the wound 
only was meant, wherein does the wound caused by circumcision 
differ from any other wound? Any wound may be bathed on 
the Sabbath in water and oil, according to Rabh’s opinion.’’ 
This was opposed by R. Joseph: “‘ Is it immaterial whether the 
water was warmed on the Sabbath or before the Sabbath ?”’ 
This was again opposed by R. Dimi: ‘‘ Whence dost thou know 
that the Mishna refers to water that was warmed on Sabbath, 
perhaps they (the sages and R. Elazar) differ even as to water 
warmed before the Sabbath set in?’’ Said Abayi: ‘‘ I was pre- 
pared to answer this question myself, but R. Joseph preceded 
me and said, that of a necessity the water must have been 
warmed on Sabbath, because the precariousness of the child 
demanded it.”’ 

We were also taught, that when Rabhin came from Pales- 
tine, he said in the name of R. Abuha quoting R. Elazar, and 
according to another version, in the name of R. Abuha quoting 
R. Johanan, that the Halakha prevails according to R. Elazar 
ben Azariah, whether it be with water that was warmed on the 
Sabbath or before the Sabbath, or whether the whole body or 
only the circumcised part is concerned, because it would be 
dangerous not to bathe the child on that day. 

It was said above in the name of Rabh, that every wound 
may be bathed on the Sabbath with water or oil; but Samuel said 
that water may be poured to one side of the wound and it may 


TRACT SABBATH. 301 


run down into the wound. An objection was made: ‘‘ We have 
learned, that oil or water must not be put ona piece of cotton 
to place ona wound?’’ This is prohibited on account of the 
necessity to wring the piece of cotton. We have been taught by 
a Boraitha in accordance with Samuel’s opinion; viz.: ‘‘ Water 
must not be placed directly on the wound, but near it, that it 
may run down into the wound.”’ 

The rabbis taught: “‘ Dry cotton and dry sponge, but not 
dry papyrus or dry cloth, may be placed on a wound.”’ This 
presents a contradiction. Is not dry cotton the same as dry 
cloth? This is no difficulty. By cloth is meant new cloth, 
which must not be used, whereas old cloth may be. Said 
Abayi: ‘‘ From this we see, that pieces of cloth heal a wound.”’ 

‘““ On account of a doubtful child or an hermaphrodite,’’ etc. 
The rabbis taught: It is written [Leviticus xii. 3], “‘ Aas fore- 
skin’’; so, on account of a foreskin which must be circumcised, 
the Sabbath may be violated, but on account of one which is 
doubtful the Sabbath must not be desecrated. Such also is the 
case with the circumcision of the foreskin of a true male, but 
not with that of an hermaphrodite. R. Jehudah, however, says, 
that the Sabbath may be violated on account of an hermaphro- 
dite, and if the latter is not circumcised he becomes amenable to 
Karath. The Sabbath may also be violated on account of a 
child who was born at a certain time, but not on account of one 
who was born at twilight (and it is not known whether it was 
born on Sabbath or on the following day). It is not allowed to 
violate the Sabbath on account of a child who was born without 
a foreskin, because the school of Shamai (only) contends, that 
even if a child is born without a foreskin, some blood must be 
drawn in commemoration of the covenant. The school of 
Hillel, however, says, ‘‘ That is not necessary.’’ Said R. Sim- 
eon ben Elazar: ‘‘ The school of Hillel and the school of 
Shamai did not differ as to a child born without a foreskin; both 
agree that blood must be drawn from it, because the foreskin is 
not wholly missing, but is merely ingrown. They differ only as 
regards a proselyte who was born without a foreskin. When 
seeking conversion, the school of Shamai contends that blood 
of the covenant must be drawn from his gland, whereas the 
school of Hillel does not require this to be done. 

The Master said: ‘‘ On account of a doubtful child, the Sab- 
bath must not be desecrated.’’ What does he mean by “‘ doubt- 
ful’? ? He means to say, what we learned from the rabbis; 

VOL, 11.—8 


302 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


viz.: A child born in the seventh month may have the Sabbath 
violated for it, but if born in the eighth it must not. If it is 
doubtful whether it was born in the seventh or in the eighth 
month, the Sabbath must not be violated on its account. Not 
only this, but a child born in the eighth month must not even be 
carried on the Sabbath, because it is like a stone (and cannot 
live). It is allowed, however, for the mother to stoop down 
and suckle the child, because it is dangerous for the mother to 
carry too much milk. 

We were taught that Rabh said (referring to a child born 
without a foreskin): The Halakha prevails according to the un- 
known Tana, while Samuel said, the Halakha prevails according 
to R. Simeon ben Elazar. R. Ada bar Ahabha had a child that 
was born without a foreskin; so he carried him to thirteen cir- 
cumcisers, until the child was maimed and made impotent. Said 
he: ‘‘ I deserve this fate, because I did not follow the dictum of 
Rabh.”’ Said R. Na’hman to him: ‘‘ Thou hast not only dis- 
obeyed Rabh, but also Samuel, for Samuel said, that a child 
born without a foreskin should be bled only if it was born on a 
week-day, but not on a Sabbath; and thy child was born on a 
Sabbath.’”’ R. Ada bar Ahabha, however, held, that he had 
only disobeyed Rabh, because, he was certain that the foreskin 
of achild is never wholly missing, but is merely ingrown and 
should be lanced even on Sabbath, as we were taught: Rabba 
said, that there is fear lest it be an ingrown foreskin; but R. 
Joseph said, that we were certain that it is so. Said R. 
Joseph: ‘‘ Whence do I know this? From the following Borai- 
tha: R. Elazar Hakappar said, that the school of Shamai and 
Hillel do not differ as to a child that is born without a foreskin. 
Both agree that the blood of the covenant must be drawn from 
the gland. The school of Shamai, however, contends that this 
may be done on the Sabbath, while the other holds that the 
Sabbath must not be desecrated on that -account. If then, &. 
Eliezer Hakappar holds, that they differ only as to the desecra- 
tion of the Sabbath, the first Tana must hold, that both schools 
agree that the Sabbath may be desecrated on that account, and 
in consequence must also hold, that the foreskin is not wholly 
missing but is merely ingrown (hence I am certain that it is so).”’ 

Whence do we know that the first Tana holds, as above, 
and not that both schools agree to the contrary; viz.: that the 
Sabbath must zof be desecrated ? If such would be the case, 
for what reason would Hakappar tell us that Beth Shamai holds 


TRACT SABBATH. 303 


that the Sabbath should be violated ?) The Halakha would not 
prevail thus? Nay! Perhaps R. Eliezer means to tell us, prin- 
cipally, that both schools hold, that if a child is born without a 
foreskin on a week-day he must have his gland lanced (and inci- 
dentally mentions that if a difference existed, it was concerning 
the Sabbath). 

R. Assi said: If a child be born of a woman who, after 
giving birth, must keep the law mentioned in Leviticus xii. 2, 
the child must be circumcised on the eighth day; but in a case 
where the woman need not keep the law mentioned (for instance, 
if the child was taken out through the sides by means of instru- 
ments), or if the woman was a Gentile on the day of giving 
birth to the child and became a convert to Judaism on the day 
following (and hence need not observe that law), the child need 
not be circumcised just on the eighth day (but at any time), as it 
is written [ibid. ibid.]: ‘‘ If a woman have conceived seed, and 
born a male child: then shall she be unclean seven days,”’ etc., 
etc.; [ibid. 3]: “‘ And on the eighth day shall the flesh of his 
foreskin be circumcised.’’ Said Abayi to him: ‘‘ What about 
the generations before the Law was given? The women knew 
nothing of the law of uncleanness, and still the children had to 
be circumcised on the eighth day ?’’ Answered R. Assi: ‘‘ Since 
the Law was given, a new Halakha has been in force.’’ Nay; 
this is not so! Have we not learned, that if a child was taken 
through the side of a woman, or if it had two foreskins, R. 
Huna and R. Hyya bar Rabh entertained different opinions as 
to whether it should be circumcised on the Sabbath or not ? one 
claimed that it should, and the other that it should not. Now 
we see that they differed only as to a desecration of the Sab- 
bath, but nothing is said about the non-necessity of the child’s 
being circumcised on the eighth day? One is dependent upon 
the other. (He who holds that the Sabbath should be violated, 
does so because he also holds that the child must be circumcised 
on the eighth day; while he who holds that the Sabbath must 
not be violated, does so because he holds that such a child need 
not be circumcised on the eighth day.) 

We have learned in a Boraitha: Rabbon Simeon ben Gama- 
liel said: Every human child that has lived for thirty days can- 
not be called a miscarriage, as it is written [Numbers xviii. 16]: 
‘‘ And those that are to be redeemed from a month old shalt thou 
redeem ’’; and any young of an animal that has attained the age 
of eight days, cannot be called a miscarriage, as it is written 


304 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


[Leviticus xxii. 27]: ‘‘ When a bullock, or a sheep, or a goat is 
brought forth, then shall it remain seven days by its mother; 
and from the eighth day and henceforth shall it be favorably 
received,’ etc. And how is it, if the child has not yet attained 
the age of thirty days, is it still a doubtful child ? How then is 
it allowed to circumcise any child on the Sabbath ? (perhaps it is 
a miscarriage, and in that event it would be wrongful to inflict a 
wound in vain). Said R. Ada bar Ahabha: “‘ We may do so at 
all events. If it is a regularly born child, the commandment is 
fulfilled; and if not, no wound is inflicted, but merely a piece of 
flesh is cut.’’ 

Now, then, we have learned in the above Boraitha, that if it 
be doubtful whether the child was born in the eighth or in the 
seventh month the Sabbath must not be violated on its account. 
Why should this be so? Let it be circumcised at all events. If 
then it proves to be a regularly born child, it was right to cir- 
cumcise it; and if not, no labor was performed, but merely an 
incision in the flesh was made. Said Mar the son of Rabhina: 
‘‘T and R. Nehumi bar Zacharias have explained it thus: * The 
child should be circumcised, but the injunction of the above 
Boraitha not to violate the Sabbath refers to the preparations 
which are necessary for circumcision, and this is in accordance 
with the decree of R. Eliezer.’ ”’ 

The schoolmen propounded a question: Do the rabbis differ 
with R. Simeon ben Gamaliel, or do they not? If they do, 
does the Halakha remain according to R. Simeon, or not? 
Come and hear: R. Jehudah said in the name of Samuel, that 
the Halakha prevails according to R. Simeon ben Gamaliel. 
Now if he says that the Halakha prevails according to R. Sim- 
eon, there must be some who differ with R. Simeon. 

Abayi said: ‘‘ If a child was killed by accident, either through 
falling off a roof or through being killed by a lion before it had 
lived thirty days, all agree, that it must be presumed that it was 
a regularly born child. A point of difference arises concerning 
a child that had lived less than thirty days and during its life- 
time was very weak and merely breathing. Some say that it 
was a miscarriage and others that it was a regularly born child.” 
What difference does it make? It makes a difference where the 
levirate marriage * is concerned. (If the child is presumed to 
be a regularly born child, it exempts a man from the levirate 





* Concerning the law of levirate marriage, see Deut. xxv. 5-II. 


TRACT SABBATH. 305 


marriage; but if it is presumed to be a miscarriage, it does not 
exempt a man.) 

Let us see! It is said above, that if the child die by acci- 
dent, all agree, that it is a regularly born child; yet we know that 
it happened to R. Papa, and R. Huna the son of R. Jehoshua, 
who were the guests of R. Idi bar Abin, that the latter prepared 
for them a calf, which was the third in birth of its mother, in the 
seventh day of its life, and they said to him: ‘‘ If ye had waited 
to kill this calf until evening we would eat of it (because it 
would then have been in its eighth day); but now we will not eat 
of it.’’ Hence we see, that although this was a healthy calf and 
met its death violently, they regarded it as doubtful whether it 
was a miscarriage or not. Hence say, rather, that on the con- 
trary, if the child was weak and barely breathing prior to its 
death, all agree, that it must be presumed to be a miscarriage; 
but they differ as to a child which had met its death by accident. 
Some say, that it must be regarded as a regularly born child, and 
others, that it was a miscarriage. 

The son of R. Dimi bar Joseph had a child born to him which 
died inside of thirty days, so he went into mourning for it. 
Said his father to him: ‘‘ What wouldst thou? Eat delicacies * 
(that thou sittest in mourning)?’’ And he answered: ‘‘I am 
positive that the child was a regularly born child.’’ 

“ R. Jehudah permits this in the case of an hermaphrodite.”’ 
Said R. Shezbi in the name of R. Hisda: ‘‘ Not in every case 
does R. Jehudah hold an hermaphrodite to be a male; for if we 
would say that in all cases he considers him to be a male, the 
hermaphrodite would come under the law of estimations [Levit- 
icus xxvii. 2-15], and in the Tract Erachim (estimations) we may 
learn, that according to R. Jehudah he is exempt. Why is he 
considered a male as concerns circumcision ? because it is written © 
[Genesis xvii. 10]: ‘* Every man child among you shall be cir- 
cumcised ”’ (and “‘ every’’ includes also hermaphrodites). 

MISHNA: If one have two children to be circumcised, one 
after the Sabbath and the other on the Sabbath, and through 
forgetfulness circumcised the former on the Sabbath, he is cul- 
pable. If one of the children, however, was to be circumcised 
on the day before Sabbath and the other on the Sabbath, and 
through forgetfulness one had the former circumcised on the 





* It is a custom amongst Jews, that the first meal eaten by a mourner after the 
burial of his dead must be given him by friends or strangers, and usually some 
delicacy is brought to him. 


306 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Sabbath, R. Eliezer declares him liable for a sin-offering and R. 
Jehoshua declares him free. 

GEMARA: R. Huna learns the Mishna literally; in the 
first case, “‘ he is culpable.’’ R. Jehudah, however, learns to 
the contrary, that ‘‘ he is zot culpable.’” R. Huna learns ‘‘ he 
is culpable,’’ from what we have learned in a Boraitha; viz. : 
Said R. Simeon ben Elazar: “‘ R. Eliezer and R. Jehoshua do 
not differ as to the case where a man has two children to be cir- 
cumcised, one after the Sabbath and the other on the Sabbath, 
and through forgetfulness circumcised the former on Sabbath. 
They both declare him culpable. Their point of difference is, 
if one of the children was to have been circumcised on the day 
before Sabbath and the other on the Sabbath, and through for- 
getfulness the former was circumcised on the Sabbath, the 
former declares him culpable and the latter free. Both of them 
derived their decrees from the law concerning idolatry (all sin- 
offerings are based upon the sin-offerings incidental to the laws 
of idolatry). R. Eliezer holds, that as in idolatry so also it is 
with the Sabbath. If the commandment is, “‘ Thou shalt not 
do so,’’ and the man did so, he is liable for a sin-offering; and 
R. Jehoshua says: ‘‘ Here it is different. The intention was to 
fulfil a commandment, and if accidentally it was not done he 
should be free.”’ 

And R. Jehudah learns the Mishna “‘ not culpable,’’ deriving 
his support from the following Boraitha: R. Meir said: “‘ R. 
Eliezer and R. Jehoshua do not differ as to the case where a 
man has two children to be circumcised, one before the Sabbath 
and the other on the Sabbath, and through forgetfulness circum- 
cised the former on Sabbath. They both declare him not cul- 
pable. Their point of difference is, if one of the children was 
to be circumcised on the day after Sabbath and the other on 
Sabbath, and through forgetfulness the former was circumcised 
on the Sabbath, R. Eliezer declares him culpable and R. Je- 
hoshua declares him free. Both of them derived their decrees 
from the law concerning idolatry, as is said above.”’ 

MISHNA: A child may be (legally) circumcised on the 
eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh, or twelfth day (after its birth), 
but neither before nor after. Howso? Usually (it may be cir- 
cumcised) on the eighth; one born at (the evening) twilight, on 
the ninth; one born at (the evening) twilight before Sabbath, on 
the tenth; if a feast day follows that Sabbath (it may be circum- 
cised) on the eleventh; if both New Year feast-days follow that 


TRACT SABBATH. 307 


Sabbath, on the twelfth. A sick child must not be circumcised 
until it is thoroughly recovered. 

GEMARA: Said Samuel: ‘‘ After the fever has left the 
child, seven days should be allowed to elapse until the child get 
well, before the circumcision is performed.’’ The schoolmen 
propounded a question: Must every day be of twenty-four 
hours’ duration, or may the last of the seven days be counted if 
only a few hours have passed ? Come and hear: Luda taught, 
the last day of the child’s convalescence is more important than 
the day of its birth; for a child may be circumcised on the 
eighth day after its birth, even if only one hour of that day be 
passed; but the seventh day of its convalescence after a sick- 
ness must be one of fully twenty-four hours, before circumcision 
is permitted. 

MISHNA: The following principal excrescences (knobs) 
make the circumcision invalid: Flesh that covers the larger part 
of the gland (of the organ). A man so circumcised must not (if 
he be a priest) partake of Terumah (heave-offerings). If the 
child be very fleshy and (such imperfect circumcision) is caused 
thereby, the knobs must, for appearances’ sake, be cut away. 
One who was circumcised without having had the skin torn 
open, is considered as uncircumcised. 

GEMARA: R. Abbina in the name of R. Jeremiah bar Aba, 
quoting Rabh, said: ‘‘ By stating ‘ flesh, that covers the larger 
part of the gland,’ the Mishna means to say the ‘ upper part of 
the-eland, ~ 

“Tf the child be very fleshy.’’ We have learned in a Bo- 
raitha: ‘‘R. Simeon ben Gamaliel said: ‘If the gland of the 
child be surrounded bya fleshy coating, and when erect the 
gland appears to be circumcised, the coating need not be cut 
away; but if it does not appear to be circumcised, the coating 
should be cut away.’ ”’ 

‘““ One who was circumcised without having had the skin torn 
open,” etc. The rabbis taught : The benediction to be pronounced 
by the circumciser (before. performing the rite) should be as fol- 
lows: ‘‘ Praised art Thou, Lord, our God, King of the Universe, 
who hast sanctified us with Thy commandments and hast com- 
manded us the circumcision.”’ The father of the child should 
pronounce the following benediction (in the interval between the 
circumcision and the tearing open of the skin): ‘* Who hast sanc- 
tified us with Thy commandments and hast commanded us to 
enter the child into the covenant of Abraham our father.’’ The 


308 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


bystanders must respond: ‘‘ As he hath been entered into the 
covenant, so may he also be entered into the Law, into the bridal 
canopy, and into good deeds.’’ The man who makes the bene- 
diction (over the goblet of wine) should say as follows: ‘‘ Blessed 
art Thou, etc., who hast sanctified Thy favored one (meaning the 
patriarch Isaac, see Genesis xxii. 2) even in the womb (as it is 
written in Genesis xvii. 19: ‘ And I will establish my covenant 
with him’), who hath made a sign in his body, and hath sealed 
his children with the sign of the holy covenant. Therefore as 
a reward for this we pray Thee, Thou living God, to command 
that our children be saved from the grave because of the cove- 
nant that is sealed in our flesh. Blessed art Thou, O Lord, who 


hast made the covenant.’’ One who circumcises proselytes 
must say: “‘ Blessed art Thou, etc., and hast commanded us the 
circumcision.’’ The one who pronounces the benediction (over 


the goblet) must say: ‘‘ Blessed art Thou, etc., and hast com- 
manded us to circumcise the proselytes, and to draw from them 
blood of the covenant. For were it not for the blood of the 
covenant, heavens and earth would not exist, as it is written 
[Jeremiah xxxili. 25]: ‘If not my covenant by day and night, 
I would not have instituted the ordinances of heaven and earth.’ 
Blessed be Thou, O Lord, who didst make the covenant.’’ One 
who circumcises slaves pronounces the same prayer as is used 
for proselytes, inserting “‘ slaves’’ where ‘‘ proselytes’’ is used; 
and the one making the benediction does likewise. 





CHAPTER XX. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING CERTAIN ACTS OF LABOR WHICH MUST BE 
PERFORMED DIFFERENTLY ON A SABBATH AND ON A FESTIVAL. 


MISHNA: R. Eliezer says: One may stretch a wine-filter 
(of cloth) over a vessel on a feast-day, and on the Sabbath one 
may pour wine into it, if it was already fastened (to the vessel). 
The sages say: One must zot stretch it (over a vessel) on a 
feast-day, and on Sabbath one must not pour (wine) into it, but 
the latter act is allowed on a feast-day. 

GEMARA: How is it possible that R. Eliezer should decide, 
that one may stretch a wine-filter, etc., on a festival, if he does 
not even allow a window-blind to be added to a temporary tent, 
as is explained by Rabba bar bar Hana in the name of R. 
Johanan [Chapter XVII., p. 272]. In that case he does not 
even allow the addition of a blind, and here he permits the 
stretching of a filter to commence with? R. Eliezer holds as 
R. Jehudah, as we have learned in a Boraitha: There is no dif- 
ference between the Sabbath and the festival, except that the 
preparation of food is permitted on the latter. R. Jehudah, 
however, even permits the arrangements for the preparation of 
food. What arrangements for the preparation of food are we 
aware of, that R. Jehudah permits? Such as cannot be made at 
any time before the festival; but did we hear of his permitting 
the arrangements for the preparation of food that could be made 
before the festival, to be made on the feast-day ? In this respect 
R. Eliezer is more lenient than R. Jehudah, for he permits 
all arrangements for the preparation of food to be made on the 
festival. 

‘“* The sages say: One must not stretch it,’’ etc. The school- 
men propounded a question: What if a man dd stretch the 
filter over a vessel on a festival? Is he culpable? Said Abayi: 
‘“‘ This is only a rabbinical prohibition, that one should not do on 
a festival such things as one does on a week-day.”’ 

Abayi collected all the rabbinical prohibitions to be found in 
the Boraithas, and taught as follows: A leather bag, a wine-filter, 

309 


310 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


a baldachin, and a folding-chair as used in the city of Galin, 
must not be spread; but if one does so, he is not culpable. 
Tents, however, which are permanent, must not be put up, and 
if a man does this he is culpable. One may, however, set up 
an ordinary bed, a chair, a tripod, and a stool with impunity. 

‘“ One must not pour wine into it,’’ etc. The schoolmen 
asked: ‘‘ What if a man dd pour wine into it? Is he cul- 
pable?’’ Said R. Kahana: “‘ Yea; he is liable to bring a sin- 
offering.”’ R. Shesheth opposed this: “* Have ye ever seen that 
R. Eliezer should permit a certain thing to be done to com- 
mence with, which the rabbis hold.would make one liable fora 
sin-offering ?’’ R. Joseph interposed: ‘‘ Why not? Have we 
not learned (p. 114), in the case of a woman who went out with 
a golden ornament, that R. Meir held her liable for a sin-offering 
and R. Eliezer permitted her to go out with it to commence 
with ?’’ Said Abayi to him: “‘ Dost thou think that R. Eliezer 
opposes &. Mezr in the above passage ? Nay; he merely opposes 
the sages, who said that a woman must not go out wearing the 
ornament, but if she do so, she is not culpable; whereas he says, 
that she may do so to commence with.”’ 

How should a man be warned not to pour wine into the 
filter ? (z.e., in what category of labor is that act to be classed, 
so that the man can be warned that he is performing a certain 
prohibited principal act of labor ?*). Rabba said: ‘‘ He is to be 
warned against fruit-cleaning.’’ R. Zera said: “‘ Against sift- 
’* Said Rabba: ‘“‘It seems to me that my decision is 
more in conformity with reason, for as in fruit-cleaning the good 
fruit is separated from the bad, so it is also in this case: he sepa- 
rates the clean wine from the lees.’’ Said R. Zera: “‘ It seems 
to me that my decision is more in conformity with reason, be- 
cause as in sifting the good falls to the bottom and the bad 
remains in the sieve, soit is also in this case: the good wine 
falls into the vessel, while the lees remain in the filter.”’ 

Rami the son of Ezekiel taught: “‘ A folded garment should 
not be spread on poles to serve as a sun-shade; but if a man do 
this, he is free. If, however, a string or a hanger was already 
attached to the garment with which it could be fastened to the 
poles, this may be done to commence with.’’ 

R. Kahana asked of Rabh: ‘‘ What is the law regarding a 
baldachin?’’ and he answered: ‘‘ Even a bed is not permitted.”’ 


ing. 








* See Chapter VII., note to page 138. 


TRACT SABBATH. 311 


R. Kahana then inquired: ‘‘ What is the law regarding a 
bed ?”’ and Rabh answered: ‘‘ Even a baldachin is allowed.”’ 
‘‘ What is the law regarding a bed and a baldachin ?’’ ‘‘ A bed 
is allowed but a baldachin is not allowed.’’ In spite of this, 
there is no difficulty. In not permitting even a bed, Rabh had 
reference to a folding-bed as used by the Karmanites, and where 
he said, ‘‘ Even a baldachin is allowed,’’ he had reference to a 
baldachin as described by Rami bar Ezekiel; 2¢., one which 
had strings attached to it. In saying, ‘‘ A bed is allowed anda 
baldachin is not allowed,’’ he meant to say, that an ordinary 
bed, such as is generally used, may be set up, but a baldachin, 
that had no strings or hangers attached, must not be set up. 
Said R. Joseph: ‘‘ I have seen the baldachins in the house of R. 
Huna; at night (on Sabbath eve) they were folded up and in the 
morning they were all set up.’”’ 

Rami bar Ezekiel sent to R. Huna and asked him to impart 
to him some of the good sayings of Rabh, two concerning the 
Sabbath and one concerning the Law. So R. Huna sent him 
the following sayings: Concerning what we have learned in a 
Boraitha, that a leather-bag which had strings already attached 
may be spread on poles on Sabbath, Rabh said, that this may 
be done jointly by two men but not by one.* Said Abayi: ‘A 
baldachin which must not be set up must not even be set up 
by the joint efforts of ten men.’’ What was the other good say- 
ing of Rabh concerning Sabbath? Concerning what we have 
learned in a Boraitha, that if an iron stove had one leg missing 
it may be handled, but if two legs were missing it must not be 
handled, Rabh said, that it must not be handled even if one 
leg was missing, as a precaution lest one might be tempted to 
fasten the missing leg, and that would constitute building. 
What was the good saying of Rabh concerning the Law? Rabh 
said: There will be atime when the Law will be forgotten by 
Israel, as it is written [Deut. xxviii. 59]: ‘‘ Then will the Lord 
render wonderful thy plagues,’’ etc., and I could not under- 
stand what is meant by “‘ wonderful plagues’’; but it is written 
[Isaiah xxix. 14]: ‘‘ Therefore, behold, I will do yet farther a 
marvellous work, doing wonder on wonder, so that the wisdom 
of their wise men shall be lost, and the understanding of their 
prudent men shall be hidden.”’ 





* Rashi remarks that, although some explanation for this passage was ventured 
upon by the Gaonim, still he does not understand it himself, and hence can give no 
satisfactory explanation. 


2 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


31 


The rabbis taught: When our teachers went into the vine- 
yard at Jamnia, they said that the Law would be forgotten by 
Israel, as it is written [Amos viii. 11]: ‘‘ Behold, days are com- 
ing, saith the Lord Eternal, when I will send a famine in the 
land, not a famine for bread, nor a thirst for water, but to hear 
the words of the Lord’’; and [ibid. 12]: ‘‘ And they will wan- 
der about from sea to sea, and from the north even to the east, 
they will roam about to seek the word of the Lord; but they 
shall not find it.’’ By the word of the Lord is meant: Halakha, 
the end of exile (z.2., the coming of the Messiah), and also the 
prophecies. * 

In another Boraitha we have learned: R. Simeon ben Jo’hai 
said: ‘‘ May God forbid that the Law be forgotten by Israel. It 
is written [Deut. xxxi. 21]: ‘ For it shall not be forgotten out 
of the mouth of their seed.” How then can the previous pas- 
sage, ‘ And they will roam about to seek the word of the Lord, 
but they shall not find it,’ be verified ? It means they shall not 
find a perfect Halakha (which shall be incontestable), nor a 
Mishna (which shall be beyond refutation) anywhere on earth.’’ 

We have learned in a Boraitha: If thou shouldst live in a 
generation in which there is much trouble (persecution), go and 
investigate amongst the judges of Israel; for most of the trouble 
that happens in this world happens only on account (of the cor- 
ruption) of the judges, as it is written [Micah iii. g-11]: “‘ Hear 
this, I pray you, ye heads of the house of Jacob and ye princes 
of the house of Israel, that abhor justice and make crooked all 
that is straight. They build up Zion with blood-guiltiness and 
Jerusalem with wrong; her heads judge for bribes, and her 
priests teach for reward, and her prophets divine for money, and 
yet will they lean upon the Lord,”’ etc. They are all wicked, 
and yet they all lean upon the One who spoke and the world was 
created; and therefore the Lord will bring upon them three 
troubles for the three sins of which they were guilty as men- 
tioned above (judging for bribes, teaching for reward, and divin- 
ing for money), as it is written [ibid. 12]: ‘‘ Therefore for your 
sake shall Zion be ploughed up as a field, and Jerusalem shall 





* Rashi explains the above passage as follows : That by the word of the Lord is 
meant Halakha, may be derived from the verse [Deut. v. 5], ‘‘ To announce to you 
the word of the Lord,” which is synonymous with Halakha. As for the end of exile 
also being part of the word of the Lord, I do not know what verse that can be based 
on. That by the word of the Lord is also meant the prophecies, can be inferred from 
the verse [Hosea i. 1]: ‘‘ The word of the Lord that came unto Hosea.” 


TRACT SABBATH. 313 


become ruinous heaps, and the mount of the house, forest-cov- 
ered high-places’’; and the Holy One, blessed be He, will not 
permit his Shekhina to rest again amongst Israel until the cor- 
rupt judges shall be removed and the guardians of the peace 
shall be abolished from Israel, as it is written [Isaiah i. 25 and 
26]: ‘‘ And I will turn my hand against thee, and purge away as 
with lye thy dross, and remove all thy tin. And (then) I will 
restore thy judges as at the first, and thy counsellors as at the 
beginning.’”’ 

Ula said: ‘‘ Jerusalem will not be redeemed except through 
charity (righteousness), as it is written [Isaiah i. 27]: ‘ Zion shall 
be redeemed through justice, and her converts through righteous- . 
ness.’’’ R. Papa said: When the proud men will be de- 
stroyed, then also will the men who slander and cause us to be 
hated be destroyed, as it is written: “and purge away as with 
lye thy dross.’? And when the corrupt judges will be removed, 
the bailiffs will also become extinct, as it is written [Zephaniah 
iii. 15]: ‘‘ The Lord hath removed thy punishment; he hath 
cleared away thy enemy.”’ 

Melai in the name of R. Eliezer ben R. Simeon said: ‘‘ It is 
written [Isaiah xiv. 5]: ‘ Broken hath the Lord the staff of the 
wicked, the sceptre of the rulers.’ The staff of the wicked 
refers to the judges who made of themselves a staff upon which 
their servants (scribes) should lean (z.e., they gave them all the 
opportunities to extort money, of which they took a share). 
The sceptre of rulers refers to the judges who made their rela- 
tives rulers.”’ 

Mar Zutra said: ‘‘ The above verse refers to the teachers 
who turn out ignorant men and allow them licenses to be judges 
(and through ignorance they were incapable of judging right- 
fully).’’ 

R. Elazar ben Melai said in the name of Resh Lakish: ‘‘ It 
is written [Isaiah lix. 3]:‘ For your hands are defiled with blood, 
and your fingers with iniquity: your lips have spoken falsehood, 
your tongue uttereth deception.’ ‘ Your hands are defiled with 
blood’ refers to the judges, ‘ your fingers with iniquity’ refers 
to the scribes of the judges, ‘ your lips have spoken falsehood ’ 
refers to the lawyers, ‘and your tongue uttereth deception’ 
refers to the litigants themselves. ’’ 

R. Melai said again in the name of R. Itz’hak of Magdala: 
“From the day that Joseph left his brethren, he tasted not 
wine, as it is written [Genesis xlix, 26]: ‘ These shall be on the 


314 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


head of Joseph, on the crown of the head of him that was sep- 
arated * from his brothers.’’’ R. Jose bar Hanina said, that the 
brothers of Joseph also did not taste wine, because it is written 
[ibid. xliii. 34]: ‘‘ And they drank, and were merry with him”’ 
(because it says ‘‘ with him,’’ the inference is, that without him 
they did not drink). 

R. Melai said again: ‘‘ The reward due Aaron for what is 
written [Exod. iv. 14]: ‘And when he seeth, he will be glad in 
his heart,’ was given him in the breastplate of judgment ”’ [see 
ibid. xxviii. 15]. 

The inhabitants of the city of Bashkar sent a query to Levi, 
as follows: ‘‘ What is the law concerning a baldachin, what is 
the law concerning flax sown in a vineyard, does it come under 
the head of Kelaim or not, and what is the law concerning one 
who dies on a festival ?’’? While the messenger was on his way, 
Levi died. Said Samuel to R. Menasseh: ‘‘ If thou wouldst 
be wise, answer thou these queries.’” So R. Menasseh answered 
as follows: ‘‘ As for a baldachin, we have investigated on all 
sides and found no permission (for setting it up). As for flax 
sown in a vineyard, it constitutes a case of Kelaim. As fora 
man that had died on a festival, the corpse should be kept until 
after the second day of the festival, and it should not be in- 
terred, neither by Israelites nor by Gentiles.’’ This is not so! 
Rami bar Ezekiel found permission for a baldachin as previously 
said! R. Tarphon decided that flax sown in a vineyard does not 
constitute Kelaim, and Rabha decreed, that a corpse may be 
interred on the first day of a festival by Gentiles and on the sec- 
ond day even by Jews? However, because the men of Bashkar 
were ignorant, R. Menasseh gave them the stricter decrees, lest 
they take advantage of the more lenient. 

R. Abin bar R. Huna said in the name of R. Hama bar 
Gurya: ‘‘ A man can wrap himself in the canopy that has not 
been fastened to the poles, together with its fringes, and go out 
into public ground with impunity.’’ In what respect does this 
decision differ from that of R. Huna, who said in the name of 
Rabh, that one who went out into public ground wearing a 
Talith (toga) without Tzitzith (show-threads) is culpable and 
liable for a sin-offering? In the case of a Talith, the show- 
threads, being the most important part of that garment, are 





* “Separated” is expressed by the word Nazir, which means also one who has 
vowed to drink no wine. 





TRACT SARBA LH. 315 


valuable, and without them the Talith is simply a burden; 
whereas the fringes of a canopy are not an essential part of the 
canopy, and having used the latter for a garment it may be worn 
even with fringes. 

Rabba bar R. Huna said: ‘‘ A man may with cunning stretch 
a wine-filter over a vessel and say, that he intends to use it as a 
receptacle for pomegranates, but when it is already stretched he 
may filter wine through it.’’ Said R. Ashi: ‘‘ He may do this 
only if he had previously placed pomegranates in the filter.’’ In 
what respect does this decision differ from the following Bo- 
raitha: During the intermediate days of a festival (either Pass- 
over or the Feast of Tabernacles) a man may brew beer for con- 
sumption on those days but not for use on other days, be it 
beer made of dates or of barley; and although he have stale 
beer still on hand, he may with cunning brew new beer and 
drink it. (Should he have any left over he may keep it for other 
days; hence we see that it is not necessary to dissemble by 
doing something else before performing the act really intended.) 
In the latter case it is not known whether the man have any 
stale beer on hand or not, and hence it might be presumed that 
he has none and must brew more; but in the former case, when 
the wine-filter is stretched and wine is being immediately filtered 
through it, the presumption would be that it was stretched for 
that purpose only. 

Said the disciples to R. Ashi: ‘‘ We would call the attention 
of the master to this young scholar, R. Huna bar Hyvan or 
Heluvan by name, who takes the clove of garlic and stops up a 
hole in a wine-barrel with it, saying, that he intends merely to 
preserve the clove of garlic. He also goes and lies down ona 
ferry, presumably to sleep; in the meantime he is ferried across 
the river, and on the other side he watches his fields, saying, 
however, that he merely intended to sleep.’’ Answered R. 
Ashi: ‘‘ Ye speak of cunning (trickery). All the acts mentioned 
by you are prohibited by rabbinical laws only, and in the case of 
a scholar, there is no danger that he will commit them publicly 
(without resorting to cunning).”’ 

MISHNA: One may pour water on yeast in order to thin 
the latter; and one may filter wine through a cloth or an Egyp- 
tian wine-basket. One may put a beaten egg in a mustard 
sieve. One may also make honey-wine on Sabbath. R. Jehu- 
dah says: ‘‘On Sabbath this may be done only in a cup, on 
feast-days even in a lug (pitcher), and on the intermediate days 


316 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


even ina barrel.’ R. Zadok says: ‘‘ At all times it should be 
made according to the number of guests.”’ 

GEMARA: Zera said: ‘‘ A man may pour clear wine or 
clear water into a filter with impunity.’’ May clear wine only, 
and not dimmed wine, be poured into a filter? Have we not 
learned, that R. Simeon ben Gamaliel said: ‘‘ A man may stir 
up a cask of wine, with the lees, on the Sabbath and pour it 
through a filter with impunity’’? Zera explained the decree of 
R. Simeon ben Gamaliel to the effect, that the latter spoke of 
wine that was just being pressed, when it is customary to drink 
the wine with the lees (hence the wine is not improved, as it can 
be drunk without filtering). 

““ One maz filter wine through a cloth.’’ R. Simi b. Hyya 
said: ‘‘ Providing the cloth is not turned into a funnel (that the 
cloth should not subsequently be wrung).”’ 

“An Egyptian wine-basket.’’ Said R. Hyya bar Ashi in the 
name of Rabh: “‘ Providing the wine-basket is not lifted above 
the bottom of the vessel to the height of one span.”’ 

‘“ One may put a beaten egg ina mustard steve.’’ KR. Jacob 
Kar’hah explained this as follows : ‘* Because the yolk is used 
only for coloring; the white of the egg is nevertheless as much 
an article of food as the yolk (hence no sifting takes place).”’ 

It was taught: Mustard which had been prepared before 
Sabbath may be ground on the Sabbath, either by hand or with 
a vessel. Honey may also be placed in the mustard on Sabbath; 
it must not be thoroughly mixed, however, but merely stirred. 
Cresses which had been cut up before the Sabbath may be 
mixed with oil and vinegar on the Sabbath, and one may also 
add mint; it must not be thoroughly mixed, however, but 
merely stirred. Garlic which had been ground before the Sab- 
bath may be mixed with broad-beans and peas, but must not be 
ground together; mint may also be added. Said Abayi: ‘‘ We 
see, that mint is good for the spleen.”’ 

““ One may make honey-wine on the Sabbath.’’ The rabbis 
taught: ‘‘ One may make honey-wine on the Sabbath, but not 
an oil-wine salve.’’ The difference between honey-wine and oil- 
wine salve is that’ the former is made of honey, wine, and pep- 
per, while the latter is made of old wine, clear water, and aro- 
matic balsam to be used as a lotion after a bath. 

Said R. Joseph: ‘‘ Once I went with Mar Ugqba to a bath- 
house. When we came out, he gave mea cup of wine which, 
when drinking, I felt all over from the roots of my hair to the 


TRACT SABBATH. ar7 


nails of my feet; and had he given me another, I am afraid that 
the reward due me in the world to come would have been less- 
ened in proportion.’’ Mar Ugqba drank this wine every day ? 
He was accustomed to it. 

MISHNA: One must not put laserpitium in tepid water 
for the purpose of softening the former, but one may put it in 
vinegar. One must not soak bran nor grind it, but may put it 
in a sieve or ina basket. One must not sift feed-straw through 
a winnow, nor lay it in a high place so that the chaff fall out, 
but one may take it up in a winnow and then pour it into the 
crib. 

GEMARA: The schoolmen asked: ‘‘ What if one did put 
laserpitium in tepid water ?’’ Said Abayi: ‘‘ This is only a 
rabbinical prohibition, that it should not be done as on a week- 
day.”’ 

R. Johanan asked of R. Yanai: “‘ Is it allowed to put laser- 
pitium in cold water (on Sabbath) ?’’ and he answered: “ It is 
not.’” Said R. Johanan: ‘‘ We have learned in the Mishna, 
that it is not allowed to put it in tepid water, but in cold water 
it should be allowed.’’ Answered R. Yanai: (If thou askest 
me concerning a Mishna) what difference is there between me 
and thee ? The Mishna is according to the opinion of one man, 
and the Halakha does not prevail according to his opinion, as we 
have learned in a Tosephta: Laserpitium must not be put in 
either cold or tepid water. R. Jose said: “‘ It is not allowed to 
put it in tepid water, but it may be put in cold water.”’ For 
what purpose is it used? For a heavy feeling in the chest. 

R. Aha bar Joseph had a heavy feeling in the chest, so he 
came to Mar Ugba, and was told to drink laserpitium to the 
weight of three shekels in three days. He drank some on Thurs- 
day and Friday, and on Sabbath he came to the house of learn- 
ing to inquire whether he might drink it. He was told, that the 
disciples of Ada, others say of Mar bar R. Ada, taught, that 
one may drink even a Kabh or two Kabhs with impunity. He 
then said to them: ‘‘I am not asking whether I may drink it. 
That I know is allowed, but I should like to know whether I 
may put the laserpitium in water in order to drink it. How 
shall | do?” ‘Said K. Hyya bar Abin to them: Ihe same 
thing happened to me, so I went to R. Ada bar Ahabha and 
asked him, but he did not know; so I asked R. Huna, who 
said, that Rabh decided that first it should be put in cold water 
and then it may be put in warm water.”’ 

VOLe Il 9G 


318 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


R. A’ha bar Joseph leaned on the shoulders of his nephew, 
R. Na’hman bar Itz’hak, and went out into the street, and told 
him, when they came to the house of R. Safra, to lead him in. 
When they got there, they went in, and R. A’ha asked of R. 
Safra: “‘ Maya shirt that had been laundered too stiffly be 
rubbed and softened by hand on the Sabbath? Shall we 
assume, that it is only intended to soften the shirt and is there- 
fore permissible, or that it is intended also to bleach it and is 
hence prohibited ?’’ R. Safra answered, that it might be done, 
and asked him: ‘‘ Why dost thou ask about a shirt, why not ask 
also about a turban?’’ ‘“‘T have already asked concerning a 
turban of R. Huna, and he said, that it is not permitted.’’ 
“Why, then, didst thou come to ask about a shirt? Thou 
couldst have inferred, from the turban, that the other was also 
not permitted ?’’ Answered R. A’ha: ‘‘ A turban is bleached 
by unfolding and rubbing, but a shirt is not.”’ 

RK. Hisda said: “If a shirt had been hung up to dry by 
means of a stick drawn through the armholes, it should be taken 
down from the stick, but the stick should not be taken down 
alone (because the stick is not a vessel and hence must not be 
handled).’’ Said Rabha: “‘ If the stick was one that may be used 
by a weaver, it may be taken down (because it is regarded as a 
vessel).”’ 

R. Hisda said again: ‘‘ A bundle of herbs, if suitable for 
cattle-food, may be handled on the Sabbath. If not, it must 
not be handled.’’ Said R. Hyya bar Ashi in the name of Rabh: 
“ Dried salt meat may be handled on Sabbath (because it can 
be eaten uncooked), but dried salt fish must not (because it can- 
not be eaten uncooked).”’ 

Rk. Hisda said again: ‘‘ A man who attends school, and has 
not sufficient bread, should not eat herbs, because it creates 
hunger. I myself have never eaten herbs, neither when I was 
poor nor when I was rich. When I was poor I did not want to 
stimulate my appetite, and when I was rich I rather ate meat 
and fish in place of herbs.’ Again he said: ‘‘ A young pupil 
who lacks food should not eat a little at atime. He should 
wait until he can accumulate sufficient for a hearty meal, and 
then eat. When I was poor I never ate until I could put my 
hand in the basket and find sufficient to satisfy my hunger.”’ 

The same R. Hisda said to his daughters: ‘‘ Be chaste in the 
eyes of your husbands. Do not go about eating in the presence 
of your husbands. Do not eat herbs at night (for fear of bad 


TRACT SABBATH. 319 


breath). Do not eat dates at night. Do not drink beer at night, 
and use not the same toilet that men do. When some one 
knocks at your door, do not ask ‘ Who is it a in the masculine, 
but in the feminine.”’ 

“One must not sift feed-straw through a winnow.’’ This 
Mishna is not in accordance with the opinion of the Tana of the. 
following Boraitha: R. Eliezer ben Jacob said: ‘‘ A winnow 
must not be touched at all.’’ 

MISHNA: One may clean out (the crib) for the (stalled) ox 
and throw (the superfluous fodder) over the side, so that it does 
not become unclean, so says R. Dosa. The sages declare this 
to be prohibited. One may remove the fodder in front of one 
animal and place it before another, on the Sabbath. 

GEMARA: The schoolmen propounded a question: Do the 
sages dissent from the first part of R. Dosa’s decree, from the 
last part, or from both? Come and hear: ‘‘ We have learned 
in a Boraitha:‘ The sages said: ‘‘ Neither one nor the other may 
be thrown over the side.’’’’’ Said R. Hisda: ‘‘ The sages 
differ with R. Dosa only when the crib was a separate vessel, 
but if it was part of the stall and fixed to the ground, all agree 
that it is prohibited to clean it out.’’ 

“ One may remove the fodder from in front of one animal,”’ 
etc. In one Boraitha we learned, that one may remove the fod- 
der from cattle with healthy snouts and place it before cattle 
with diseased snouts; and in another Boraitha we learned the 
contrary, that fodder may be removed from cattle with diseased 
snouts and placed before cattle with healthy snouts. Said 
Abayi: ‘‘ According to both Boraithas, the fodder of an ass 
may be placed before an ox, but the fodder of an ox must not 
be placed before an ass. The first Boraitha refers to fodder 
placed before an ass who does not emit phlegm from the mouth, 
and which may be placed before a cow who does emit phlegm; 
and the other Boraitha, which permits the placing of fodder of 
animals with bad snouts, also refers to an ass, and calls the snout 
of an ass bad (diseased) because he feeds on all manner of 
things, like thistles, etc. The cow is referred to as having a 
healthy snout because she is very particular as to what she 
feeds on (hence the two Boraithas do not differ).’’ 

MISHNA: Straw on a bed must not be shaken up with the 
hand, but it may be moved with the body. If it be designed for 
fodder, or a pillow or cloth lie over it, it may be shaken up by 
hand. A clothes-press which is kept in the house may be 


320 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


opened, but must not be used for pressing. The clothes- 
presses of the professional washers must not be touched. R. 
Jehudah says: “‘If the press was partly open before the Sab- 
bath, it may be entirely opened and drawn out (others say, the 
clothes may be drawn out).”’ 

GEMARA: R. Jehudah said: ‘‘ It is permitted to triturate 
pepper seed with the handle of a knife one by one, but not two 
together (on Sabbath).’’ But Rabha said, that as a man usu- 
ally triturates pepper in a mortar on a week-day, he may on 
Sabbath triturate as many together as he chooses with the handle 
of a knife. 

R. Jehudah said again: ‘‘(On the Sabbath) a man who 
bathes should first dry himself standing in the water and then 
go out; otherwise he carries water into unclaimed ground for 
four ells.’’ If that is so, what about the man going into the 
water? By entering he pushes the water forward four ells (into 
the lake or river) by mere motion? Motion has not been pro- 
vided for in the prohibitions of unclaimed ground. 

Said Abayi, according to another version R. Jehudah: ‘“‘ If 
a man stepped into loam, he should wipe his feet on the ground 
and not on a wall.’’ But Rabha said: ‘‘ Why should he not do 
that, because it might be presumed that he plasters the wall and 
is engaged in building? Nay; this is not ordinary building (but 
more like field-work). On the contrary: If he wipe his feet on 
the ground he may perchance smoothen out an incavation, 
hence he should rather wipe his feet on the wall. For the 
same reason, he should not wipe his feet on the side of an inca- 
vation, lest he smoothen it out.’’ 

Rabha said again: ‘‘ One should not cork a bottle with a 
piece of cotton or cloth, lest he wring it.’’ R. Kahana said: 
‘“ The dirt on a garment should be removed by rubbing the cloth 
on the inside and not on the outside, lest it seem like washing.’’ 
R. Abuha in the name of R. Elazar, quoting R. Yanai, said: 
““One may scrape off dirt on an old shoe, but not a new one. 
With what should it be scraped off ? With the back of a knife,’’ 
said R. Abuha. Said a certain old man to him: ‘‘ Withdraw 
thy teaching before that of R. Hyya: One must not scrape off 
dirt on an old nor on anew shoe. One must also not rub his 
foot with oil, while it is still in the shoe. He may, however, 
rub his foot with oil and then put on his shoe or his sandal. 
He may also anoint his whole body with oil and lie down ona 
skin, although the skin is benefited by the oil.’’ Said R. Hisda: 


TRACT SABBATH. 321 


‘‘ Providing the oil dripping from the body on to the skin is only 
sufficient to polish the skin, but if there is enough to soften the 
skin one must not lie down on it.”’ 

The rabbis taught: A small man should not wear a large 
shoe (lest it fall off and he be forced to carry it on the Sabbath). 
He may, however, wear a large shirt (as there is no fear of his 
taking that off and carrying it). A woman should not go out 
with a torn shoe on the Sabbath (lest she be laughed at and 
carry the shoe). She also must not accept Chalitza in such a 
shoe; but if she did so, the Chalitza is valid. She also should 
not wear a new shoe, that she had not tried on before the Sab- 
bath (lest it be too large and she take it off and carry it), Such 
is the explanation of Bar Qappara. 

In one Boraitha we have learned, that one may remove the 
shoe of a statue, while in another we were taught that it must 
not be removed. This presents no difficulty. The one Borai- 
tha is in accordance with the opinion of the rabbis, who differ 
with R. Eliezer, while the other is in accordance with the opin- 
ion of R. Eliezer; as we have learned in another Boraitha: R. 
Jehudah said in the name of R. Eliezer, that if the shoe was 
loose and easily removed it might be taken off. 


CHAPTER AXT 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE POURING OUT OF WINE FROM VES- 
SELS COVERED WITH A STONE (WHICH MUST NOT BE LIFTED), 
AND THE CLEARING OFF OF CRUMBS, ETC., FROM THE TABLE, 


MISHNA: One may lift up a (petted) child, that has a stone 
in its hand, also a basket in which there is a stone; one may 
also handle unclean Therumah (heave-offerings), together with 
clean and with ordinary grain. R. Jehudah saith: “‘ One may 
also take out Therumah from mixed grain in proportion of one 
to the hundged.”’ 

GEMARA: Rabha said: ‘‘ If a man carried out a child to 
whose neck a purse of money was fastened, he is culpable of 
carrying the purse; but if he carried out the corpse of a child 
which had a purse of money fastened to it, he is free.’’ Why is 
the man culpable in the first instance, for the carrying of the 
purse and not for carrying the child ? He holds with R. Nathan, 
who said, that a living thing carries itself. Why not say, that 
the purse is an accessory to the child? Have we not learned in 
a Mishna (p. 182), that if a man carried out a person on a litter 
he is not culpable of carrying even the litter, because it is of no 
consequence to the person? A litter is regarded as of no conse- 
quence to the person, but a purse is not held to be part of a 
child. Why, in the second instance, is the man not culpable 
for carrying the corpse of the child? Rabha holds, with R. 
Simeon, that every labor which is not performed for its own 
sake does not make a person culpable (and he is not culpable 
for carrying the purse, because in his sorrow he does not think 
of the purse that the child was wont to play with). 

An objection was made (to Rabha’s teaching by virtue of the 
above Mishna): One may lift up a child with a stone in its hand ? 
The disciples of R. Yanai explained this as follows: ‘‘ A child 
is referred to that yearns for its father, and if it were not carried 
it would become sick.’’ The stone is no hindrance to its being 
carried. If that is the case, why is a stone mentioned ? why not 
money? Did not Rabha say, that the child may be carried if it 

322 


TRACT SABBATH. 223 


have a stone in its hand, but not money? That is simple. If 
the stone fall to the ground the father will not pick it up, but if 
money falls he will pick it up. Wehave been taught by a Borai- 
tha in support of Rabha: If one carry his clothes, folded, on his 
back, or his sandals or his rings in his hand, he is culpable; if he 
wear them, however, he is free. If he carry out a man dressed 
in clothes, sandals, and rings, he is also free; but if he carried 
the clothes, sandals, or rings alone, he would be culpable. 

‘A basket in which there is a stone,’’ etc. Why should a 
man not be culpable for carrying it? Is not the basket a basis 
for a prohibited thing? Said R. Hyya bar Ashi in the name of 
Rabha: ‘‘ Here a basket is spoken of which is broken, and 
where the stone fills in the gap, making the basket whole.”’ 

‘“ One may also handle unclean heave-offerings.’’ Said R. 
Hisda: ‘‘ When may unclean heave-offerings be handled? If . 
the clean heave-offering be at the bottom and the unclean on 
top, the unclean may be removed; but if the clean be on top, it 
may be removed, and the unclean must remain untouched.’’ If 
the unclean Je on top, let it be thrown off until the clean is 
reached! Answered R. Ilai, Rabh said: “‘ Here fruit is spoken 
of, that would be spoiled by being thrown off.”’ | 

An objection was made: We have learned in a Boraitha: 
‘* Unclean heave-offerings may be handled with clean and with 
ordinary grain; it makes no difference where it lies: on the top 
or at the bottom.’’ This is a refutation of R. Hisda? R. 
Hisda might say, that our Mishna treats of a heave-offering that 
is needed for food, while the Boraitha treats of a heave-offering 
when the space it occupies is needed. What impels R. Hisda 
to explain the Mishna in that manner? Said Rabha: “‘ From 
the latter part of the Mishna it seems to be in the sense ex- 
plained by him, for that part of the Mishna says, that if money 
lie on a bolster, the bolster may be turned so that the money 
shall fall down: and Kabba bar bar Hana in the name of K. 
Johanan explained, that such is the case only if the bolster 
itself be needed; but if the space occupied by the bolster is 
required, one may lift the bolster, with the money, and deposit 
it elsewhere. Now, if this part of the Mishna refers to the 
demand for the object itself, the first part does likewise.’’ 

‘ R. Jehudah saith: ‘One may take Therumah from mixed 
grain in proportion of one to the hundred.’’’ How can this be 
done? In doing it, one would make a useless thing useful, and 
that is not permitted ? R. Jehudah holds with R. Simeon ben 


324 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Elazar, who declares, that one may look upon one side of a 
mixed-grain pile and consider it Therumah, and eat from the 
other. How can it be said, however, that R. Jehudah holds 
with R. Simeon ben Elazar, for have we not learned in a Borai- 
tha, that they differ on this question, the former holding that one 
may take a measure of grain from the pile, of one to the hun- 
dred, set it aside as Therumah, and use the remainder, while the 
other says, that one should look upon one side of it and eat 
from the other? R. Jehudah is even more lenient ; for he per- 
mits all of it to be used after a measure had been set aside, 
while R. Simeon permits only part of it to be used. 

MISHNA: If a stone lie at the opening of a barrel, the 
barrel may be bent over, so that the stone fall down. If the 
barrel stand amongst other barrels, it may be lifted and then 
bent over, in order that the stone fall down. If money lie ona 
bolster, the bolster may be turned, so that the money fall down. 
If dirt be found on the bolster, it may be cleaned off witha rag; 
and if the bolster be of leather, water may be poured on it 
until the dirt is removed. 

GEMARA: Said R. Huna in the name of Rabh: ‘“ The 
Mishna refers to a case where the stone lying at the opening of 
the barrel was left there by accident. If it was placed there 
purposely, the barrel becomes a basis to a prohibited thing and 
must not be handled.”’ 

“If the barrel stand amongst other barrels,” etc. Who is the 
Tana who holds, that where there are both a permissible and a 
prohibited thing we must engage ourselves only with the per- 
missible thing and not with the prohibited? Said Rabba bar 
bar Hana in the name of R. Johanan: ‘‘ That is R. Simeon ben 
Gamaliel, who said in Tract Betza, that if the waste was in a 
larger quantity than the eatable portion, the eatable portion 
might be taken, but the waste must not be touched. In the 
case of the barrel, the useful portion is certainly in a larger 
quantity than the useless (why, then, should he not remove the 
stone ?). If a man should wish to remove the wine, it would 
necessitate his lifting the barrel at all events; with the barrel the 
stone would also be lifted, and in that case the useless would 
surpass in quantity the useful.”’ 

We have learned in a Boraitha: R. Jose said: ‘‘If a barrel 
stood in a cellar amongst other barrels, or among glassware (and 
there is danger that if the barrel is lifted and bent over the 
stone covering it will fall upon another barrel, or upon some of 


TRACT SABBATH. 325 


the glassware and break it), it may be lifted, carried to another 
place, bent over so that the stone roll off, its contents removed 
to the quantity required, and returned to its former place.” 

“Tf money lie on a bolster,”’ etc. Said R. Hyya bar Ashi in 
the name of Rabh: ‘‘ The Mishna here refers to a case where 
the money was accidentally left on the bolster; but if it is laid 
there on purpose, the bolster becomes a basis to a prohibited 
thing and must not be handled.”’ 

Hyya the son of Rabh of Diphti taught the same as Rabba 
bar bar Hana in the name of R. Johanan, viz. (page 323), that 
if the space occupied by the bolster is required, the bolster 
together with the money may be moved. 

R. Oshea said: ‘‘ If a purse of money was accidentally left 
in private ground, one may put a loaf of bread or a child on it 
and take it back to the house.’’ R. Itz’hak said: ‘‘ This rule 
applies not only to a purse of money, but also to a brick that is 
needed for any purpose.”’ 

Said R. Jehudah bar Shila in the name of R. Assi, that a 
box of money was once forgotten in the market and R. Johanan 
was asked what was to be done. He ordered them to place a 
loaf of bread or a child on it, and take it in. Said Mar Zutra: 
‘« All these rules are laid down in the case of where the things 
referred to were left by accident.’’ But R. Ashi said, that such 
is not the case, and that a child or a loaf of bread can be used 
to move a corpse only. 

When Abayi had to bring in stalks of grain, he would put on 
them some article of food (or some vessel) and bring it into the 
house; and when Rabha had to bring in (an uncooked) dove, he 
would put a knife on it and bring it into the house. When R. 
Joseph heard of this, he said: ‘‘ How sagacious are the minds 
of these young scholars! When did the rabbis permit this to 
be done? When the things to be brought were forgotten on the 
outside; but they did not permit their being moved to com- 
mence with.’’ Abayi answered: ‘‘(I have done right.) For 
were I not a trustworthy man, I would not have used those 
means to bring in the grain at all. Stalks of grain are a useful 
thing to sit on, and may be handled.’’ And Rabha said: “‘ (I 
have also done right.) For were I not a trustworthy man, I 
would not have placed a knife on the dove at all, as there are 
some people who eat it raw (hence it may be handled on the 
Sabbath).’’ Shall we say, that Rabha holds that the raw dove 
may be handled only because it is eaten (raw) by some people, 


326 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


and were it not so it could not be handled (on Sabbath), hence 
he holds as R. Jehudah in Tract Betza? Did not Rabha say to 
his servant on a festival: ‘‘ Fry a duck for me and throw the 
entrails to the cat’’; and we see thence that he permitted his 
servant to handle the entrails because they were food for a cat 3 
The entrails would have spoiled if left over for the next day, 
and we must assume therefore that they were designed as food 
for the cat from the day preceding. 

MISHNA: The school of Shamai teaches: ‘‘ Bones and 
husks may be removed from the table.’’ The school of Hillel, 
however, teaches: ‘‘ One may only lift the whole table board (or 
cloth), and shake off what is left over.’’ All crumbs smaller 
than an olive may be removed from the table; also the hulls of 
beans and lentils, because they may serve for fodder. It is 
allowed to use a sponge for wiping, providing it has a handle 
made of leather; otherwise, it is not allowed. At all events, 
one may handle a sponge on the Sabbath, and it is not subject 
to defilement. 

GEMARA: Said R. Na’hman: We know that the school of 
Shamai holds to the opinion of R. Jehudah (who accepts the 
theory of Muktza), and that the school of Hillel holds to the 
opinion of R. Simeon (who disregards the law of Muktza). 
(Hence the order of the Mishna should be reversed.) The dic- 
tum of the school of Shamai should be credited to the school 
of Hillel, and wice versa. 

‘‘ Hulls of beans,’’ etc. The permission to remove the hulls 
of beans, etc., is certainly in accordance with R. Simeon, who 
disregards the law of Muktza; and the latter clause of the 
Mishna referring to a sponge, which must not be used for wiping 
off the table unless it have a handle (because without the handle 
it would be wrung and that is prohibited, although the intention 
to wring it did not exist), is in accordance with the opinion of R. 
Jehudah, who holds, that one must not perform an act even 
unintentionally. In this case R. Simeon also agrees with R. 
Jehudah, because it again presents a parallel case to the behead- 
ing of a creature where no intention to kill it exists. 

The pits of dates (Armiassa) to which some of the meat ad- 
heres may be handled, and those of Parsiassa * must not be han- 
dled. Samuel used to handle the latter with bread, holding to 
his opinion that anything at all may be done with bread (while 





* For explanation of the terms Armiassa and Parsiassa, see Vol. Ls pind 5e 


TRACT SABBATH. 327 


others hold that bread should not be put to any uses except for 
food). Rabba would hold them with a pitcher of water. R. 
Shesheth would throw them out by means of his tongue, and 
R. Papa would throw them underneath the bed. It was told of 
R. Zacharias ben Abkulos, that he would turn his face towards 
the back of the bed and throw them out with his tongue. 


CHAPTER XA: 
REGULATIONS CONCERNING PREPARATION OF FOOD AND BEVERAGES, 


MISHNA: Should a cask break open, sufficient may be 
saved for three meals. The owner may also call to others: 
‘“ Come and save for yourselves (whatever you can).’’ No por- 
tion of the leakage, however, may be sponged up (soaked up 
with a sponge). One must not press fruit in order to extract 
the juice; and if it ooze out by itself, it must not be used. R. 
Jehudah said: ‘‘ If the fruit is for eating, the juice which oozes 
out may be used; but if it is for beverage, it must not be used. 
If honeycombs be broken on the eve of Sabbath and the honey 
ooze out, the honey must not be used.’’ R. Eliezer, however, 
permits this. 

GEMARA: We have learned, that wine must not be soaked 
up with a sponge, and oil must not be dipped with a spoon, in 
the same manner as it is done on week-days (there must bea 
slight change). 

The rabbis taught: If fruit becomes scattered in a courtyard 
(private ground) it may be gathered up and eaten, but this must 
not be done as on a week-day; 7.¢., gathered in a basket. 

‘““ One must not press fruit,’’ etc. Said R. Jehudah in the 
name of Samuel: ‘‘ R. Jehudah (of the Mishna) agrees with the 
sages in the case of olives and grapes.’’ Why so? Because 
this class of fruit is intended only for pressing, and the juice 
which must of a necessity ooze out might be calculated upon by 
the owner for a beverage. Ula said, that R. Jehudah differed 
with the sages even in the case of olives and grapes. R. Johanan 
said, that the Halakha prevails according to R. Jehudah as far 
as other fruit is concerned, but not as regards olives and grapes. 

Said R. Aba in the name of R. Jehudah, quoting Samuel: 
‘“R. Jehudah subsequently agreed with the sages as regards 
olives and grapes, and the sages also agreed with him later con- 
cerning other fruit.’’ Said R. Jeremiah to R. Aba: “‘ Wherein 
do they differ ?’’ and R. Aba answered: ‘‘ Go and seek, and thou 
wilt find it!’’ Said R. Na’hman bar Itz’hak: ‘* It seems to me 

328 


TRACT SABBATH. 329 


that they differ concerning berries and pomegranates, for we 
have learned in a Boraitha: The juice of olives or grapes, which 
after having been pressed and brought into the house had oozed 
out by itself, must not be used, whether the fruit had been 
brought in for eating or beverage. If a man squeezed out the 
juice of berries and pomegranates and brought the pressed fruit 
into the house to eat, if any more juice oozed out, he might 
drink it; but if he brought the fruit expressly for eating pur- 
poses or for beverage, or without any express design, he must 
not drink the juice that had oozed out, so said R. Jehudah. The 
sages, however, prohibit the use of the juice under any circum- 
stances.”’ 

Said R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel: ‘‘ A man may 
squeeze out a bunch of grapes directly into a pot, but not into a 
bowl. (Why not? Because if he squeezed it into the pot it is 
proof positive that it will be used for food, but if squeezed into 
the bowl it might be used as a beverage.) Said R. Hisda: 
‘’ From the decree of our master we can learn, that a man may 
milk a goat right into the pot, but not into a bowl.’’ Thus we 
see that Samuel holds, that beverages when mixed with eat- 
ables are also regarded as eatables. 

Said R. Zera in the name of R. Hyya bar Ashi, quoting 
Rabh: “ A bunch of grapes must be squeezed directly into the 
pot, but not into a bowl, but the oil of fish may be pressed out 
even into a bowl.’’ R. Dimi repeated this decree. Said Abayi 
to him: ‘‘ Ye teach this in the name of Rabh, hence ye have no 
objection; but we learn this in the name of Samuel, hence we 
have the following objection: ‘Can Samuel say that the oil of 
a fish may be squeezed out even in a bowl? Were we not 
taught, that if a man squeezed out herbs which were soaked in 
wine and vinegar, it is, according to Rabh, permitted to com- 
mence with, if the herbs were to be eaten; but if the juice only 
was to be used, the man would not be liable fora sin-offering, 
but he should not do it to start with? If the herbs, however, 
were cooked, whether the man wished to eat them or only use 
the juice, he might squeeze them out into a bowl. Samuel, 
however, decreed, that be the herbs cooked or raw, one may do 
this only if he intends to eat the herbs, but not if he only intends 
to use the juice; if he does, however, he is not liable for a sin- 
offering.’ ”’ 

R. Dimi answered: ‘‘ By the Lord! My eyes have seen it, 
and not as a stranger, that I heard this decree from R. Jeremiah, 


330 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


he from R. Zera, he again from R. Hyya bar Ashi, and the 
latter from Rabh’s mouth.”’ 

In regard to the quoted Boraitha concerning the herbs that 
one had squeezed out (we have heard the opinion of Rabh and 
Samuel), R. Johanan said: ‘‘ Be they cooked or raw herbs, he 
may do so to commence with, if he intends to eat the herbs; but 
if he only desires the juice he must not do so, and if he does he 
is liable for a sin-offering.’’ All this, however, is opposed by 
the following Boraitha: ‘‘ One may squeeze out herbs which 
were soaked in wine and vinegar on the Sabbath for use on the 
same day, but not for later use; but one must not press olives 
or grapes, and if he does, he is liable for a sin-offering.’’ Now, 
this is in opposition to all three: Rabh, Samuel, and R. Jo- 
hanan. Rabh could explain this in accordance with his teach- 
ing; viz.: The herbs may be pressed on the Sabbath, for use 
on that day and not later, providing he uses the herbs for eat- 
ing; but if he wishes to use the juice he must not do so, but 
if he does he is not liable for a sin-offering; and cooked herbs 
he may squeeze out, whether he requires the herbs or the juice; 
olives and grapes he should not press: if he does, he is liable 
for a sin-offering. Samuel could explain it according to his own 
opinion: A man may squeeze out herbs on Sabbath for that 
same day, but not for later use; and the same law applies to 
cooked herbs, provided they are used for eating, but if the juice 
is wanted they must not be pressed, efc. R. Johanan could 
explain the Boraitha in accordance with his teaching, as follows: 
Be the herbs cooked or soaked, they may be squeezed out if 
intended for eating; but if the juice is required he must not, 
and if he did so it is equal to pressing olives or grapes, and he is 
liable for a sin-offering. 

Said R. Hyya bar Ashi in the name of Rabh: ‘‘ According 
to biblical law one cannot be culpable except for pressing olives 
and grapes. So have taught the disciples of Menasseh. Also 
according to biblical law, a witness that testifies from hearsay 
must not be accredited, with the exception of a case where he 
testifies to having heard that a woman’s husband had died.”’ 

‘* Tf honeycombs be broken on the eve of Sabbath.’’ When R. 
Hosea came from Neherdai he brought a new Boraitha; viz.: 
‘‘ If olives and grapes were crushed before the Sabbath, and the 
juice oozed out, it must not be drunk; but R. Eliezer and R. 
Simeon both permit it.’’ Said R. Joseph: ‘‘ He just tells us 
of another man in addition to R. Eliezer!’’ Said Abayi to him: 


TRACT SABBATH. 331 


‘‘ He taught us a great deal; for from our Mishna I would say, 
that honeycombs were eatables before being crushed and also 
afterwards; therefore R. Eliezer permits the use of the honey, 
but in the case of olives and grapes which were previously 
eatables and subsequently became beverages, it might be pre- 
sumed that even R. Eliezer would not permit their use. Hence 
we were instructed by R. Hosea to the contrary.”’ 

MISHNA: Whatever has been dressed with hot water on 
the eve of Sabbath, may be soaked in hot water on the Sab- 
bath; and whatever has not been dressed with hot water on the 
eve of Sabbath, must only be passed through hot water on the 
Sabbath: excepting only stale salt fish and Spanish kolias (a 
kind of fish which was generally cured to make it eatable), for 
passing these through hot water is all the dressing required for 
them. 

GEMARA: What does the Mishna refer to?) For instance, 
the hen of R. Aba! He would cook a hen, then soak it in water, 
and when it would fall to pieces he would eat it. Said R. Safra: 
‘‘T was there at one time and R. Aba served me with some of 
that dish, and had he not given three-year-old wine immediately 
after it, I would have been forced to vomit.”’ 

R. Johanan would spit every time he was reminded of Baby- 
lonian Kutach (a dish made of small salt fish boiled in milk). 
Said R. Joseph: ‘‘ Yea, and let us spit when we think of R. 
Aba’s hen.’’ And R. Gaza said: ‘‘ I was in Palestine at one 
time, and made that same dish (kutach); so they begged me to 
give them some for all the sick in Palestine.”’ 

‘* And whatever has not been dressed with hot water,’’ etc. 
What is the law concerning one who had passed kolias or stale 
salt fish through hot water? Said R. Joseph: ‘‘ He is liable for 
a sin-offering.’’ Said Mar the son of Rabhina: ‘‘ We have un- 
derstood it so from the Mishna, because the last clause is ‘ for 
passing these through hot water is all the dressing required for 
them,’ and the finishing of a certain kind of labor is equivalent 
to hammering.’’ 

R. Hyya bar Aba and R. Assi once sat in the presence of R. 
Johanan, and R. Johanan dozed off. So R. Hyyabar Aba asked 
R. Assi why the fowls of Babylon were so fat. R. Assi an- 
swered: ‘‘ Go to the desert of Aza in Palestine, and I will show 
thee fatter ones.’’ ‘‘ Why are the Babylonians so merry during 
the festivals ?’’ asked R. Hyya again. ‘* Because they are poor 
(and during the entire year they have no pleasures, so they take 


332 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


advantage of the festivals),’’ was the answer. ‘‘ Why are the 
scholars of Babylon so well dressed?’’ queried R. Hyya. 
“Because they are ignorami’’ (and must wear good clothes in 
order to command respect), answered R. Assi. At that moment 
R. Johanan awoke, and said to them: ‘‘ Youngsters! Did I not 
tell you, that it is written [Proverbs vii. 4]: ‘ Say unto wisdom, 
Thou art my sister,’ which means: If a thing is as certain to 
thee as the fact that thou canst not marry thy own sister, then 
say it? Otherwise, thou shalt not say it. (Then why speak 
such foolishness ?)’’ Then said they: ‘‘ Let Master tell some 
things (which would benefit us)!’’ Said R. Johanan: ‘‘ The 
fowls of Babylon are fat because they were never driven away 
from home, as it is written [Jeremiah xlviii. 11]: ‘Moab was 
ever at ease from his youth, and he was resting on his lees, 
and was not emptied from vessel to vessel, and had not gone 
into exile: therefore had his taste remained in him and his scent 
was not changed.” Whence do we know that the fowls of Pal- 
estine were driven from home? It is written [ibid. ix. 9]: 
‘ Both the fowls of the heavens and the beasts are fled; they are 
gone away.’—[R. Jacob said in the name of R. Johanan, that 
the fowls and the beasts and all else came back to Palestine with 
the exception of the Spanish kolias (the reason will be ex- 
plained in Tract Bechorath.]—‘ Why are the Babylonians merry 
during the festivals?’ Because they were not included in the 
curse of [ Hosea ii. 13]: ‘ And I will cause to cease all her mirth, 
her festival, her new moon, and her Sabbath, and all her ap- 
pointed feasts.’ ’’ 

Said R. Itz’hak: ‘‘ (Indeed it was so.) There was nota 
single feast in Palestine, that the military did not come to Seph- 
oris’’; and R. Hanina said: ‘‘ There was not a single feast in 
Palestine, that captains, guards, and supervisors did not come to 
Tiberias.’’—‘‘ Why are the scholars of Babylon so well dressed ?’’ 
‘“ Because they are all strangers. As the saying goes: Ina city 
where a man is known, he may wear whatever he chooses; but 
where he is not sufficiently known he should dress well.”’ 

R. Joseph taught: It is written [Isaiah xxvii. 6]: ‘‘ In the 
future shall Jacob yet take root: Israel shall bud and blossom; 
and shall fill the face of the world with fruit.’? What is meant 
by “‘ bud and blossom’”’? The scholars of Babylon, who wind 
blossoms and wreaths around the Thorah. 

MISHNA: A man may break open a cask, to eat dry figs 
therefrom; provided, he does not intend using the cask afterwards 


TRACT SABBATH. 333 


as a vessel. He must not pierce the bunghole of a cask, such is 
the decree of R. Jehudah (or R. Jose); the sages permit this to 
be done. And one must not bore a hole in the side of it; but 
if it was already perforated, he must not fill it up with wax, 
because he would smoothen the wax thereby. Said R. Jehudah: 
‘“ Such a case was brought before R. Johanan ben Sachai, at 
Arab, and he observed: ‘I doubt whether that act does not 
involve liability to bring a sin-offering.’ ”’ 

GEMARA: Said R. Oshea: ‘‘ When may a man hold a dirk 
to open acask of figs? If the figs are very tightly packed, for 
then he would have to use a knife or a dirk to get the figs out; 
but if they were packed loose he must not use a knife to open 
the cask.”’ 

An objection was raised: We have learned, that R. Simeon 
ben Gamaliel said: ‘‘ A man may bring in a cask of wine, cut 
off the bung-head with a knife, and serve it to the guests with 
impunity.’’ This Boraitha is in accordance with the opinion of 
the sages, while our Mishna is in accordance with the decree of 
R. Nehemiah (who holds that no vessel may be used for any 
other purpose but that for which it was originally intended). 
What impelled R. Oshea to make the entire Mishna conform 
with the dictum of R. Nehemiah? Let him say, that the cask 
may be opened with a knife even if the figs are loose, and thus 
be in accord with the sages? Answered Rabha: ‘‘ The reason 
is, that R. Oshea could not quite comprehend why the Mishna 
specified figs: it could have said fruit, and on that account he 
reasoned as stated.”’ 

In one Boraitha we have learned: Palm-leaf baskets contain- 
ing dried figs and dates may be untied, taken apart, or cut; and 
in another Boraitha we were taught, that they may be untied, 
but not taken apart or tied. This presents no difficulty; for 
one Boraitha is in accordance with the opinion of the sages, and 
the other is in accord with R. Nehemiah. 

A question was asked of R. Shesheth: ‘‘ Maya cask be 
bored with an auger on the Sabbath? Shall we assume, that 
one intended to make an opening in the cask and hence it is 
prohibited, or that he intended merely to make a larger space 
for the flow of the wine and it is therefore permitted ?’’ The 
answer was: ‘‘ The intention was to make an opening, and it is 
prohibited.’’ An objection based upon the teaching of R. Sim- 
eon ben Gamaliel previousy mentioned was raised, and the an- 


swer was: “‘ There the intention certainly was to make the space 
VOL. II.—10 


334 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD, 


larger, while here it is obvious that the intention was to make 
an opening; otherwise, he would have broken open the cask 
with a knife.”’ 

‘“ One must not pierce the bunghole of a cask.’ Said R. Huna: 
‘‘ They differ only in reference to the top of a bunghole of a 
cask; but as for the side, all agree that it is not allowed, and 
this is carried out by the later clause in the Mishna; viz.: ‘ And 
he must not bore a hole in the side of it.’’” R. Hisda, however, 
said: “‘ They differ only as far as boring a hole in the side of the 
bunghole is concerned, but as for the top, all agree that it is per- 
mitted; and the later clause of the Mishna means to state that 
one must not bore a hole in the side of the cask itself.’’ 

The rabbis taught: One must not bore a new hole on Sab- 
bath, but if it was already made he may enlarge it; and others 
say, that he must not enlarge it; but all agree, that if the hole 
was merely stopped it may be reopened. The first Tana pro- 
hibits the boring of a new hole, because thereby an opening is 
made. Does not enlarging a hole improve the opening? Said 
Rabba: According to biblical law, an opening through which 
one cannot enter or go out is not considered a door, but the rab- 
bis made this a precaution on account of chicken-coops, the 
holes of which are made for the purpose of admitting fresh air 
and emitting the foul. (Therefore making a hole in a coop is 
equivalent to making a whole coop, for without holes it is of no 
value.) Enlarging a hole, however, is permitted, because one 
would enlarge a hole in a chicken-coop, lest an ichneumon should 
enter and kill a chicken. Why do some say, then, that holes 
should not even be enlarged? Because it might be that one 
did zot make the hole in a chicken-coop large enough, and 
would enlarge it. R. Na’hman taught in the name of R. Jo- 
hanan, that the Halakha remains according to the last dictum. 

All agree, that a hole which had been stopped up may be re- 
opened. Said R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel: This was 
said only in the case of where a hole had been stopped to pre- 
serve the aroma of the wine. If, however, the hole was stopped 
up in order to strengthen the cask, it must not be reopened. 
What is meant by preserving the aroma and by strengthening 
the cask? Said R. Hisda: ‘‘ If the hole was on top of the cask 
and was stopped up, it was for the purpose of preserving the 
aroma; but if at the bottom, it was for the purpose of strength- 
ening the cask.’’ Rabha said: ‘‘ If it was at the bottom, it was 
also only for the purpose of preserving the aroma; and only if 





TRACT SABBATH. 335 


the hole was stopped up right underneath the lees of the wine, 
it was for the purpose of strengthening the cask.’’ 

Rabh prohibits the inserting of a faucet into a cask, and 
Samuel permits it. All agree, that cutting a hole in the cask for 
the purpose of inserting a faucet is prohibited, and that replac- 
ing the faucet, if once removed, is permitted. They differ, 
however, only when a hole had already been made in the cask 
before the Sabbath, but it was not quite fit for the faucet. 
Those who say, that it is prohibited, do so as a precaution lest 
one cut a fresh hole, while those that permit this to be done say 
no precautionary measure is necessary. 

This is like the following difference between Tanaim: We 
have learned that a screw must not be fitted on a festival, much 
less on a Sabbath; but if it fall out it may be replaced on Sab- 
bath, and so much more on a festival; and R. Yashia makes the 
ordinance more lenient. What does R. Yashia make more leni- 
ent ? Shall we assume, that he refers to the first part and per- 
mits a screw to be cut? In that event, he would be improving 
a vessel, and that is certainly not allowed! Shall we assume, on 
the other hand, that he refers to the second part; the first Tana 
alone permits this? We must say, therefore, that the screw was 
already cut, but did not quite fit, and he permits the fitting of 
it. (Hence the same difference exists here as between the pre- 
vious Tanaim.) R.Shesheth the son of R. Idiin the name of R. 
Johanan said: ‘‘ The Halakha prevails according to R. Yashia.’’ 

‘* But tf it was already perforated,”’ etc. To fill it up with 
oil is, according to Rabh, prohibited, as a precaution lest he fill 
it with wax; and according to Samuel it is permitted, as the lat- 
ter does not deem a precautionary measure necessary. Said R. 
Samuel bar bar Hana to R. Joseph: “‘ Thou hast said distinctly 
in the name of Rabh, that oil is permitted.”’ Answered R. 
Joseph: ‘‘ Thou hast caught me in a trap.’’ * 

Said Samuel: ‘‘ The leaf of myrtle must not be put in the 
bunghole of a cask, so that the wine flow over it.’ Whyso? 
Rk. Yimar of Diphti said: ‘‘ As a precaution lest a groove (chan- 
nel) be made.’’ R. Ashi said: “‘ As a precaution lest the leaf be 
broken off (from its stem).’’ What difference is there? The 
difference is in the case of a leaf that had already been broken 
off (from its stem). (The precautionary measure of R. Yimar 
remains, while that of R. Ashi falls to the ground of itself.) 





* See note to page 114 of this tract. 


336 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Is it permitted to wrap one’s self in a bolster in public 
ground and bring it into private ground ? Rabh prohibits this 
and Samuel permits it. If the bolster were soft and could be 
folded, they do not differ, all agreeing that it is permitted. If 
it were hard and could not be folded, all agree that it is prohib- 
ited. They differ only concerning a bolster that was neither 
soft nor hard, but a medium between the two. One says, that 
it appears like a burden and should not be carried, while the 
other holds that it is not a burden and may be carried; and the 
opinion just ascribed to Rabh was not stated by him expressly, 
but was merely inferred from the following incident: ‘‘ Rabh 
came to a certain place and found that he lacked room; so he 
went out into a lane (unclaimed ground), and when a bolster was 
brought to him he would not sit down on it. Those who saw 
this inferred therefore that he did not hold it to be permissible.”’ 
As a matter of fact, this was not so. Rabh had it proclaimed 
that a bolster was allowed to be used, but in honor of the mas- 
ters who were with him he would not sit down on that bolster. 
Who were those masters? R. Kahana and R. Assi. 

MISHNA: One may put cooked victuals into a cave (or cel- 
lar) for the purpose of preserving them; also put clean water 
(contained in a vessel) into water that is not drinkable, in order 
to keep it (the former) cool; likewise cold water (in a vessel) 
into hot water, in order to warm the former. One whose clothes 
have dropped into the water while on the road, may unhesitat- 
ingly go on with them. As soon as he arrives at the outmost 
court (of the city or village), he may spread his clothes in the 
sun to dry, but he must not do this publicly. 

GEMARA: Is this not self-evident ? One might say, that 
there should be a precaution against grading (smoothening) any 
incavations that might be in the cave; hence we are told that such 
is not the case. 

‘“ Clean water into water that is not drinkable,’ etc. Is this 
not self-evident? Yea; but this is taught on account of the 
later clause in the Mishna, z.¢., putting cold water into hot. Is 
this also not self-evident ? One might say, that this should be 
prohibited, as a precaution lest one also put a vessel containing 
cold water into glowing cinders to warm; so we are told, that 
such a precaution is not necessary. 

‘* One whose clothes have dropped into the water,” etc. Said 
R. Jehudah in the name of Rabh: “ All things which were for- 
bidden on account of causing suspicion among the people (that 





ERACT SABBATH. jo7 


one is committing a wrongful act) should not be done, not only 
publicly, but even in the innermost recesses of one’s rooms.”’ 
Is this not contradictory to our Mishna, which says, that one 
may spread his clothes in the sun, but xot publicly? This isa 
difference between Tanaim, for in reference to this Mishna we 
have learned in a Boraitha, that both R. Eliezer and R. Simeon 
hold, that it is prohibited even when zot done publicly. 

Said R. Huna: ‘‘ He who dusts his clothes on a Sabbath is 
liable for a sin-offering. This refers only, however, to a new 
garment, but not to an old one, and the new garment only when 
it is black; but garments of other colors may be dusted. Refer- 
ring to a black garment, it is only then prohibited to be dusted 
if its possessor is particular about it (to such a degree, that he 
never puts it on without dusting it).”’ 

Ula once came to Pumbaditha and he saw the rabbis dusting 
their clothes on a Sabbath, so he said: ‘‘ The rabbis are violat- 
ing the Sabbath!’’ So R. Jehudah said to his disciples: “‘ Dust 
your clothes right before his eyes: we are not particular.”’ 

Abayi stood before R. Joseph. R. Joseph said to him: 
‘“Give me my hat.’’ And seeing that the hat was very dusty, 
Abayi hesitated to give it to him. So R. Joseph said: “‘ Take 
hold of it and dust it: we are not particular.’’ 

We have learned in a Boraitha: Those who deal in clothes, 
and carry them folded on their shoulders on Sabbath, are liable 
for a sin-offering: this refers not only to clothes-dealers, but 
also to others; clothes-dealers, however, are mentioned, because 
that is their usual custom. The same is the case with a mer- 
chant who carries out a bag of money. He is liable for a sin- 
offering; and not only a merchant, but also others; but mer- 
chants are mentioned because it is their wont to carry money in 
that manner. 

Said R. Jehudah: ‘* It once happened that Hyrcanos the son 
of R. Eliezer ben Hyrcanos went out on Sabbath with a ker- 
chief folded on his shoulder and tied to one of his fingers with 
a piece of twine (in order that it might not fall down); and when 
the sages heard this, they said that the twine was unnecessary, 
for he could have carried the kerchief without it.’’ 

It happened that Ula came to the house of Assi bar Hini, 
and he was asked whether it was allowed to make a groove of 
the clothes on Sabbath. (The Babylonians wore long garments, 
and by turning them up at the bottom a quasi-groove was made.) 
Ula answered: ‘‘So said R. Ilai: It is prohibited to make a 


338 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


groove on Sabbath.’’ What isa groove? Said R. Zera: ‘A 
groove made of the clothes of the Babylonians.’’ Said R. Papa: 
‘* Bear this rule in mind: If the clothes are turned up for the 
purpose of preventing their becoming soiled, it is prohibited; 
but if they are turned up to improve their appearance, it is 
allowed, as R. Shesha the son of R. Idi would always arrange his 
cloak (toga) tastefully (on a week-day, hence it is customary and 
may also be done on Sabbath).”’ 

When R. Dimi came from Palestine, he related: It once hap- 
pened that Rabbi went out into the field, and both ends of his 
toga hung on his shoulders. Said Jehoshua the son of Ziruz, 
the son of R. Meir’s father-in-law before Rabbi: ‘‘ Did not R. 
Meir say, that in a case of this kind one is liable for a sin-offer- 
ing ?’’ Said Rabbi: ‘‘ Was R. Meir so particular, that he deter- 
mined just how far down the ends of one’s toga should reach ?”’ 
Still he (Rabbi) let down his toga; and when Rabhin came from 
Palestine he said, that it was not Jehoshua ben Ziruz who made 
that remark, but Jehoshua ben Bepusai the son-in-law of R. 
Agqiba; and not that R. Meir said what has just been cited, but 
that R. Aqiba had said that. Also, that Rabbi had inquired 
whether R. Agiba was so particular; and lastly, that Rabbi let 
down his toga. When R. Samuel ben R. Jehudah came from 
Palestine he said, that Rabbi was only asked concerning sucha 
case (but not that he himself was the party referred to). 

MISHNA: One who bathes in the water of a cavern or in 
the hot springs of Tiberias, though he wipe himself with ten 
towels, must not carry them off in his hand; but if ten persons 
wiped themselves, their faces, their hands, and their feet, with 
one towel, they might carry it off in their hands. 

One may anoint and rub the stomach with the hands, but 
not so as to cause fatigue. One must not brush the body with a 
flesh-brush or descend into a kurdima.* One must not take an 
emetic, or stretch the limbs of an infant, or put back a rupture; 
one who has strained his hand or foot must not pour cold water 
on it, but he may wash it in the usual way: if he thereby be- 
comes cured, it is well. 

GEMARA: The Mishna teaches, ‘‘ the water of a cavern,’’ 
in connection with the hot springs of Tiberias; hence it must be, 


‘ 


that the water of a cavern is also hot. And again it says, ‘‘ one 





* A bathing place with a loamy bottom, into which it is easy to descend, but 
from which it is quite an exertion to ascend. 


TRACT SABBATH. 339 


who bathes,’’ and not ‘‘ one may bathe,’’ from which we see, 
that to commence with, bathing in those waters is not allowed; 
but merely to rinse one’s self is permitted, even to commence 
with. This is according to the opinion of R. Simeon. 

‘“‘ Though he wipe himself with ten towels,’’ etc. The first 
part of this clause in the Mishna imparts something new and 
unexpected in that it teaches, that, although if one man wipe 
himself with ten towels, there will be very little water contained 
in the towels, still he might through thoughtlessness wring 
them; and the latter part of the clause also imparts something 
new and unexpected, stating, as it does, that if ten men wipe 
themselves with one towel, although the towel will contain a 
great deal of water, they will mutually remind each other that it 
must not be wrung. 

The rabbis taught: ‘‘ A man may wipe himself with a towel 
and leave it at the window of a house that is nearest to the wall 
of the bathhouse; but he must not give it to the bathhouse 
employees, because they are suspected of wringing it on the 
Sabbath.”’ R. Simeon, however, says: ‘“ A man may wipe him- 
self with one towel and carry it in his hand to his house.’’ Said 
Abayi to R. Joseph: “‘ How is the law?’’ and he answered: 
‘Did not R. Hyya bar Aba in the name of R. Johanan say, 
that the law prevails according to R. Simeon?’’ Did R. Jo- 
hanan say this indeed? Did he not say elsewhere, that the 
Halakha prevails according to the anonymous teachers in the 
Mishna, and the Mishna teaches, that even if one man wiped 
himself with ten towels he must not carry them off in his hand ? 
R. Johanan teaches, that the Mishna concludes with, ‘‘ So said 
the son of Hakhinai’’ (hence it is the teaching of one individual). 

R. Hyya bar Aba in the name of R. Johanan said: ‘‘ The 
bathhouse employees may carry the sheets with which the 
women wipe themselves in the bathhouse on the street by wrap- 
ping them around their bodies; provided they wrap them over 
their heads and the greater part of their body.’”’ 

R. Hyya bar Aba said in the name of R. Johanan: ““A 
large veil which is worn by women should have the two ends 
that hang down in the back tied.’’ And he said again, that 
they should be tied underneath the shoulders. 

Rabha said to the inhabitants of Mehuzza: ‘“‘If ye must 
carry clothes for the military on Sabbath, wrap them around you 
underneath the shoulders.”’ 

““ One may anoint and rub his stomach.’’ The rabbis taught: 


340 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


‘The stomach may be rubbed and anointed on the Sabbath, 
provided it is not done the same as on week-days.’’ How 
should it be done? R. Hama bar Hanina said: ‘‘ He should 
first anoint it and then rub it’’; but R. Johanan said, that he 
might do both at the same time. 

“ But so as not to cause fatigue,’ etc. Said R. Hyya bar 
Aba in the name of R. Johanan: ‘‘ It is not allowed to stand on 
the bed of Lake Deumseth, because the loam at the bottom is 
saline and immersion in the lake causes fatigue.’’ Said R. 
Jehudah in the name of Rabh: ‘‘ The days on which a cure in 
that lake (for bodily ills) may be effected are only twenty-one, 
and Pentecost occurs during those twenty-one days.”’ The 
school-men asked: ‘‘ Does Pentecost fall at the beginning of the 
twenty-one days or at the end?’’ Come and hear: Samuel 
said, that all waters taken for a cure are effective only from 
Passover to Pentecost. As for waters taken internally, Samuel 
may be right (because during cool weather one takes more exer- 
cise and thus the waters are effective), but for bathing it would 
seem that Pentecost should be the commencement. 

Said R. Helbo: ‘‘ The wine of the land of Purgaitha and 
the waters of the lake Deumseth robbed Israel of ten tribes (be- 
cause indulgence in these pleasures are detrimental to spiritual 
welfare).’’ R. Elazar ben Aroch happened to be there, and in- 
dulged in those luxuries to such an extent that he forgot his 
learning, and afterwards the sages had to pray for his return 
unto the Law. This is as we have learned elsewhere (Aboth): R. 
Nehurai said: ‘‘Go into exile only in a place of learning and 
think not that the Law will follow thee, or that thy comrades 
will preserve it in thy hands, and do not depend upon thy ac- 
quired knowledge.’’ This R. Nehurai is, according to some, 
the same Elazar ben Aroch, and he was called Nehurai, because 
this signifies (in Hebrew) “‘ light of the eyes’’; for he enlight- 
ened the eyes of many scholars with his interpretations. 

““ One must not brush the body,’ etc. The rabbis taught: 
One must not brush the body with a flesh-brush on Sabbath. 
R. Simeon ben Gamaliel said: ‘‘ If one’s feet were soiled, he 
might brush them the same as on week-days unhesitatingly.”’ 
The mother of Samuel the son of Jehudah made her son a silver 
brush. 

““ Or descend into a kurdima.’’ Why so? Because the bot- 
tom of a kurdima is slippery (and one might fall and wet his 
clothes, and thus be tempted to wring them). 


TRACT SABBATH. 341 


‘““ One must not take an emetic.’’ Said Rabba bar bar Hana 
in the name of R. Johanan: ‘‘ One must not take a medica- 
ment as an emetic, but may thrust his finger down his throat 
and thus cause vomiting.”’ 

‘“ Or stretch the limbs of an tinfant.’’ Said Rabba bar bar 
Hana in the name of R. Johanan: ‘‘ To swathe a child on 
Sabbath zs allowed.”’ 

“Or put back a rupture.’’ Said R. Hana of Bagdad in the 
name of Samuel: ‘‘ The Halakha prevails, that it may be 
done.’” (Samuel learns in the Mishna, instead of ‘‘it is not 
allowed,’’ “‘ it zs allowed.’’) 

Rabba bar bar Hana once came to Pumbaditha, but did not 
go into the college of R. Jehudah. So R. Jehudah sent for 
Ada, the officer of the college, and said to him: ‘‘ Go and take 
a pledge of Rabba bar bar Hana.’’ The officer went and did 
so. Afterwards Rabba bar bar Hana came to the college. When 
he came he heard R. Jehudah teach, that a rupture must not be 
put back on the Sabbath. Said he to him: ‘* So said R. Hana 
of Bagdad in the name of Samuel, that the Halakha prevails 
permitting this to be done.’’ Answered R. Jehudah: “‘ It is 
our Hana and our Samuel. Yet we never heard of this before. 
Now thou canst see that I was right in demanding a pledge for 
thy appearance. Hadst thou not come, we would never have 
heard this.”’ 

‘““ One who has strained his hand or foot,’’ etc. R. Ivia sat 
in the presence of R. Joseph, and he dislocated his hand. Said 
he to R. Joseph, making a motion to replace it: ‘‘ May I replace 
icthus;  - “Nay,” said KR. Joseph. "And thus may 1?” 
asked R. Ivia, making another motion. ‘* Nay,’’ was the answer 
again. Thus questioning, he finally succeeded in replacing his 
hand. Said R. Joseph to him: “‘ What didst thou ask me for ? 
It is expressly stated in our Mishna, that if one strained his hand 
or his foot, he must not pour cold water on it, but he may bathe 
it in the usual way. If he thereby becomes cured, it is well.”’ 

‘Did we not learn in the same Mishna that a rupture must 
not be put back, and still Samuel permitted it to be done ?’”’ 
asked R. Ivia. Answered R. Joseph: ‘‘ Canst thou weave every- 
thing into one garment ? What we have learned, we may fol- 
low; but what we have not learned, we cannot.”’ 


CHAPTER XXIII. 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING BORROWING, CASTING LOTS, WAITING FOR 
THE CLOSE OF THE SABBATH, AND ATTENDING TO A CORPSE, 


MISHNA: A man may borrow of an acquaintance jugs of 
wine or oil (on Sabbath), provided he does not say to him: 
‘““ Lend (them to) me.’’ A woman may also borrow bread from 
her acquaintance. If the man is refused (by his acquaintance), 
he may leave his upper garment (as a pledge) with the lender, 
and settle his account after Sabbath. Thus, also, in Jerusalem, 
the custom was, if the eve of Passover fell on a Sabbath, a 
man might leave his upper garment with the vender, take his 
paschal lamb, and settle his account after the holiday. 

GEMARA: Rabha bar R. Hanan said to Abayi: ‘‘ What is 
the difference between saying: ‘I want to borrow’ and ‘ Lend 
me’?’’ Answered Abayi: ‘‘ The difference is, if a man says, 
“I want to borrow,’ he usually returns what he has borrowed and 
the lender will not be compelled to write it down; but if he says, 
“Lend (trust) me,’ the lender generally writes down what he 
has lent.’’ Said Rabha again: ‘‘ During the week it makes no 
difference, the lender is not particular whether one says, ‘ I want 
to borrow,’ or‘ Lend me.’ He writes it down just the same; 
then why should a distinction be made on Sabbath?’’ And 
Abayi answered: ‘‘ The saying of ‘I want to borrow,’ on Sab- 
bath, is a reminder to the lender that the sages said, that one 
must not say ‘lend me,’ and thus prevents him from writing it 
down.”’ 

The same said again to Abayi:‘‘ Let us see! The sages said, 
that everything done on a festival which can be done in a differ- 
ent manner from that on a week-day should so be done. Now, 
why do we not see women, who go for water with jugs, perform 
that work differently from their manner on a week-day ?’’ He 
answered: ‘‘ Because that would be impossible! For how 
should they do? Shall we say, that one who carries a large jug 
should carry a small one? That would necessitate her going 
twice. Or that one who carries a small jug should carry a larger 

342 


TRACT SABBATH. 343 


one? Then she would have a heavier burden to carry. Should 
she cover it with a cloth? Then she might wring it. Should 
she cover it with a lid? Then she might have to untie it. 
Hence it is impossible.’’ * 

‘““A woman may also borrow bread from an acquaintance,’ 
etc. From the Mishna we see, that only on Sabbath a woman 
must not say, ‘‘ Lend me,’’ when borrowing bread, and on week- 
days that would be permitted. Would this not be against the 
decree of Hillel, who prohibits this on account of possible usury 
(as explained in Tract Baba Metzia)? Nay; we can say that 
the Mishna is in accordance with Hillel’s decree, but here it 
refers to such places where bread has a fixed value, while Hillel 
refers to places where bread has not a fixed value. 

“Tf the man be refused,”’ etc. It was taught: ‘‘ A loan on 
a festival is, according to R. Joseph, uncollectable by law, and 
Rabba say it zs collectable.’’ R. Joseph says, that it is uncollect- 
able, because otherwise the lender will write it down; and Rabba 
says, if we say that it is uncollectable, the lender will not trust 
the borrower and the latter will not have the means of celebrat- 
ing the festival. Is this not a contradiction to our Mishna, 
which teaches, that if the man be refused trust, he may pledge 
his garment, etc.? If the loan be uncollectable, the pledging is 
quite right; but if it be collectable by law, why should the bor- 
rower pledge his garment ? The lender can sue him by law? The 
lender might say, that he does not care to be troubled by law- 
suits and judges. R. Ivia would take pledges, and Rabba bar 
Ula would trick the borrower (by in turn borrowing something 
from him after the holiday and holding that for a pledge). 

MISHNA: A man may count the number of his guests and 
also of his extra dishes verbally, but not from a written list. He 
may let his children and household draw lots at table (as to who 
is to have one dish, and who is to have another), provided he 
does not intentionally stake a larger portion against a smaller 
one. They may also draw lots for the holy sacrifices on a festi- 
val (as to which priest is to have one sacrifice and which is to 
have another), but not for the eatable portions of the sacrifices 
(to whom one piece belongs, and to whom another piece be- 
longs). 

GEMARA: Why should a man zof read from a written list ? 


, 





* The additional quotations of Rabha bar Hanan to Abayi concerning festivals 
will appear in Tract ‘‘ Festivals,” where they properly belong. 


344 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Said R. Bibhi: ‘‘ Lest he might strike out a guest’s name or an 
extra dish from the list.’’ Abayi said: ‘‘ This is a precautionary 
measure against reading of business papers on Sabbath.’’ What 
is the point of difference between them? Ifthe list is engraved 
on the wall! In that case there is no fear of striking out a name, 
but the precaution against reading business papers still remains, 
and the Amoraim differ in this case with the Tanaim in the fol- 
lowing Tosephta, as we have learned: ‘‘ A man must not look 
into a mirror on Sabbath (lest he trim his hair with scissors), but 
R. Meir permits looking into a mirror which is attached to a 
wall.’” Now, why may a man look into a stationary mirror; be- 
cause by the time he goes to fetch scissors, he will be reminded 
that it is Sabbath ? Why not say, that the same is the case with 
another mirror, which he holds in his hand? By the time he 
lays down the mirror and goes for scissors, he will also be re- 
minded that it is Sabbath? The mirror prohibited to be used 
by the first Tana of the Tosephta is one that is attached to an 
instrument which can be used to trim hair, and that is in accord- 
ance with the dictum of R. Na’hman as stated by Rabba bar 
Abuha in his name: ‘‘ Why did the sages prohibit the use of an 
iron mirror? Because a man might use it to trim his superflu- 
ous hair.”’ 

The rabbis taught: An inscription at the foot of pictures of 
beasts or men must not be read on the Sabbath; and gazing on 
the picture of a man is prohibited even on week-days, because 
it is written [Leviticus xix. 4]: ‘‘ Ye shall not turn unto the 
idols.’’ With what tradition do you supplement this verse, that 
you may infer therefrom the prohibition to gaze at a picture? 
Said R. Hanin: ‘‘ Ye shall not turn to the idols which your 
imagination alone hath created.”’ 

‘“ He may let his children and household draw lots,”’ etc. It 
says, ‘‘his children and household’’: we must assume, that 
strangers are not to be included; if not, why not ? As R. Jehu- 
dah said in the name of Samuel: A party of men eating on a 
festival, where the portions distributed to each are exactly alike 
in size and quantity, are guilty of the following prohibited acts, 
viz. : measuring, weighing, counting, borrowing and lending * (all 
of which acts are prohibited on a festival). According to Hil- 
lel’s opinion, they are guilty of usury also. If that is so, why 





* Guilty of borrowing and lending can only be explained by presuming that, if 
one received a smaller portion than another, the host would promise to make up for 
the deficiency on another day. 


TRACT SABBATH. 345 


should it be allowed for his children and household ? Here the 
reason is as related by R. Jehudah in the name of Rabh, who 
said: ‘‘ It is allowed to borrow or lend from and to one’s chil- 
dren and household and charge interest, in order to exemplify 
the evils of usury.’’ If that is so, why is it not allowed, accord- 
ing to the Mishna, to stake a larger portion against a smaller ? 
As a matter of fact, it is allowed; but the Mishna is defective 
and should read: ‘‘ He may let his children and household 
draw lots at table, and even stake a larger portion against a 
smaller.’’ Why so? As R. Jehudah said in the name of Rabh 
above: He may let his children and household draw lots, but 
not strangers. Whyso? AsR. Jehudah said in the name of 
Samuel above: A larger portion must not be staked against a 
smaller one even on week-days for strangers. Why so? On 
account of Kubeia.* 

“ They may also draw lots for the holy Sacrifices,’ etc. What 
is meant by “‘but not for the eatable portions’? ? (Why should 
that not be done? The eatable portions of the sacrifices must 
be eaten on a festival.) Said R. Jacob the son of the daughter 
of Jacob: *‘ That prohibition is only applicable to the eatable 
portions of the sacrifices left over from the preceding day. Is 
this not self-evident ? I would say, that because it is written 
[ Hosea iv. 4]: ‘ And thy people are contentious equally with the 
priests,’ that the priests are contentious, and hence they should 
be permitted to cast lots for the eatable portions of the sacrifices 
(for the sake of peace); therefore we are taught, that the sacri- 
fices of the day may be drawn for, but not those of the preced- 
ing day.”’ 

The same R. Jacob said: ‘‘ A man on whose account another 
man has been punished, either through divine or human judg- 
ment, is not admitted into the abode of the Holy One, blessed 
be He.”’ Whence is this adduced ? Shall we assume that it is 
from the verses [I Kings xxii. 20-22]: ‘‘ And the Lord said, 
Who will persuade Achab, that he may go up and fall at Ram- 
oth-gil’ad ? And one said, In this manner, and another said, In 
that manner. And there came forth a spirit, and placed him- 
self before the Lord and said, I will persuade him. And the 
Lord said unto him, Wherewith ? And he said, I will go forth, 
and I will bea lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets. And 
He said, Thou wilt persuade him, and also prevail: go forth and 





* From the Greek xvfezra = dice. The above prohibition is a precautionary 
measure against the possibility of casting lots degenerating into a game of hazard. 


346 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


do so."”. And it was asked who the spirit was, and R. Johanan 
said, it was the spirit of Naboth; and Rabh said that by saying, 
‘““ Go forth,’’ the Lord meant to expel the spirit from within His 
abode. Perhaps the reason for expelling the spirit was because 
it is written [Psalms ci. 7]: ‘‘ He that speaketh falsehoods shall 
not succeed before my eyes.’’ Therefore we must say that the 
basis for R. Jacob is the following. It is written [Proverbs xvii. 
26]: ‘‘ To punish the just with a fine even is not good.” (This 
is explained to signify, that even punishment through a just man 
is not good.) What is not good is certainly evil, and it is writ- 
ten [Psalms v. 5]: ‘‘ For thou art not a God that hath pleasure 
in wickedness: evil cannot abide with thee’’; and this means, 
that ‘‘ because Thou, God, art righteous, evil cannot remain in 
Thy abode.”’ 

‘“ They may draw lots,’ etc. How do we know that the word 
‘‘Choloshim’’* means lots? It is written [Isaiah xiv. 12]: 
‘“ How art thou fallen from heaven, O morning-star, son of the 
dawn! how art thou hewn down to the ground, crusher of na- 
tions!’’ (‘‘ Crusher’’ is expressed by the word “‘ Cholesh,”’ and 
the inference is made from the supposition that lots were cast 
which nation was to be crushed first.) 

It is written [Daniel iv. 33]: ‘‘ And additional greatness was 
added unto me.’’ What was that additional greatness ? Said 
R. Jehudah in the name of R. Jeremiah bar Aba: “ From this 
we can infer, that he (Nebuchadnezzar) rode a male lion and 
twisted a snake round the lion’s head, to verify what is written 
[Jeremiah xxvii. 6]: ‘And also the beasts of the field have I 


2 a is 


given him to serve him. 

MISHNA: One must not hire laborers on the Sabbath, 1 nor 
may he commission another man to hire them for him. One 
must not stand at the extreme limit of the ‘‘ techoom’’ + and 
wait for dusk (the end of Sabbath), in order to hire laborers 
(beyond the techoom), or gather fruit beyond it; but if watching 
fruit beyond the techoom, he may await the dusk at its extreme 
limit, and in that case bring the fruit back with him. Abba 
Saul laid down the rule: ‘‘ Whatever I am permitted to prepare 
for the day following the Sabbath, oz the Sabbath, I may get 
ready for at dusk.”’ 





* The term ‘‘ casting lots” is eee in the Mishna by the word ‘‘ Choloshim,” 
and the root of the word ‘‘ Choloshim ” is ‘t Cholosh,” and has a variety of meanings. 

+ By ‘‘ techoom”’ is meant the ne of 2,000 ells which a man may traverse 
on the Sabbath, and refers to the limits of that distance. 


TRACT SABBATH. 347 


GEMARA: What is the difference between a man and his 
neighbor? The Mishna teaches he should not hire laborers on 
Sabbath nor commission another man to hire them for him? Is 
this not self-evident? His neighbor is also a Jew. Said R. 
Papa: ‘‘ That refers to a Gentile neighbor.’ R. Ashi opposed 
this, and said: ‘‘ The prohibition to commission a Gentile to do 
something on a Sabbath is merely rabbinical, for the sake of the 
Sabbath rest (Shbhuth),* and to hire laborers on the Sabbath is 
also prohibited only by rabbinical law. How then can one rab- 
binical law be supplemented by another of the same character? 
Hence I may say, that the Mishna refers to a Jewish neighbor 
and should be explained thus: A man must not commission him 
to hire laborers on Sabbath, but he may say to him, ‘ Come to 
me after dusk and we will do something together.” The Mishna 
is in accordance with the opinion of R. Jehoshua ben Kar’ha, as © 
we have learned elsewhere: A man must not say to his neighbor, 
‘I would like to see thee after dusk for the purpose of talking 
business,’ and R. Jehoshua ben Kar’ha says he may do so, and 
Rabba bar bar Hana in the name of R. Johanan taught, that 
the Halakha prevails according to R. Jeshoshua ben Kar’ha.”’ 

Rabba bar bar Hana in the name of R. Johanan said again: 
‘* What reason did R. Jehoshua ben Kar’ha have for saying so? 
Because it is written [Isaiah lviii. 13]: ‘ By not following thy 
own business, and speaking vain words.’ It is not allowed to 
speak, but surely thinking is permitted!”’ 

R. A’ha bar R. Huna asked Rabha concerning the following 
contradiction: ‘‘ How can we say, R. Johanan states, that though 
it is not allowed to speak it is allowed to think; did not Rabba 
bar bar Hana say in the name of R. Johanan, that everywhere 
it zs allowed to think, excepting in a bathhouse and a toilet- 
room, for where it is not allowed to speak of the Law it is also 
not allowed to think of it ?’’ ‘‘ In that case it is different, for it 
is written [Deuteronomy xwiii. 15]: ‘ Therefore shall thy camp 
be holy,’ and a bathhouse and a toilet-room cannot be holy; 
hence thinking of the Law in those places is not allowed.”’ 
Speaking of other things except the Law is not permitted (on 
Sabbath). Did not R. Hisda and R. Hamnuna both say, that it 
is allowed to count up charitable disbursements on Sabbath; 
and R. Elazar say, that one may figure out amounts to be dis- 
tributed among the poor (on Sabbath); and R. Jacob bar Idi say 





* See Introduction to Tract Sabbath, p. xxii. 


348 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


in the name of R. Johanan, that all things pertaining to the sav- 
ing of human beings or the affairs of the community may be 
discussed on Sabbath, and that it is allowed to go to the school- 
houses and call meetings for deliberation upon the community’s 
business; and R. Samuel bar Nahmeni say in the name of R. 
Johanan, that even halls may be visited for the purpose of call- 
ing business meetings together; and the disciples of Menasseh 
say, that betrothal of daughters may be discussed and the advis- 
ability of choosing a profession for a child may be deliberated 
upon, on the Sabbath? The passage cited in the Law states, 
that ‘‘ following thy business’’ is prohibited, but affairs sanc- 
tioned by Heaven may be discussed (and all the above affairs 
are pleasing to the Lord). 

R. Jehudah said in the name of Samuel: ‘‘ Accounts con- 
cerning which advice is requested by others and which have no 
bearing upon one’s own business may be figured on the Sab- 
bath.’’ The following Boraitha is cited in support of this: 
‘““ Accounts of disbursements in the past and of future expendi- 
tures must not be calculated on the Sabbath; but such as are of 
no importance, and concerning which advice was asked, may be 
calculated.’’ Is the following Boraitha not contradictory to the 
one cited? “‘ Accounts which are of no importance at all may 
be calculated on Sabbath, but not such as are of importance.”’ 
How so? A man may say to his neighbor, ‘‘I have hired so 
much labor to cultivate a certain field,’’ or ‘‘ I have expended 
so many Dinars on such a dwelling,’’ but he must not say, ‘‘ I 
have expended so much and must expend so much more.”’ 
(The contradiction arises from the fact that in the previous Bo- 
raitha it is prohibited to calculate disbursements made in the 
past, while in the last Boraitha it is permitted.) But according 
to your opinion, why not cite the contradiction occurring in the 
previous Boraitha itself; viz.: Firstly, it is said that disburse- 
ments of the past must not be calculated, and then, that ac- 
counts of no value may be figured? This presents no contra- 
diction at all (neither in the previous Boraitha itself, nor from 
one to the other). If the disbursements of the past have 
already been made and nothing is owing, then the accounts of 
same are of no value and may be spoken of on the Sabbath; but 
if any amount of such expenditures is still due, then it becomes 
an important account and must not be discussed. 

‘““ One must not stand at the extreme limtt of the ‘ techoom,’ 
etc. The rabbis taught: It once happened that the fence of the 


>” 


TRACT SABBATH. 349 


field belonging to a pious man was broken, and noticing it ona 
Sabbath, he was about to mend it, when he recollected that it 
was Sabbath; so he left it. A miracle occurred, and kaffir-corn 
began to sprout in the place of the broken fence and furnished 
him and his family with their sustenance. R. Jehudah said in 
the name of Samuel: ‘‘ A man may say to his neighbor, ‘ To- 
morrow I intend to go to a certain town.’ Why may he say 
this? Because, if there are huts on the road to that town at 
distances of seventy ells apart, he may even go on Sabbath; 
hence, though there be no huts on the road, he may say that he 
intends going on the morrow.”’’ 

An objection was made, based upon our Mishna; viz.: “‘ One 
must not stand at the extreme limit of the techoom and wait 
for dusk in order to hire laborers or gather fruit.’’ It would be 
quite right, if the hiring of laborers only was concerned; for a 
thing which must not be done on Sabbath must not be waited 
for at the techoom; but as for gathering fruit, if there were 
walls around the town, that would be permitted? Why, then, 
should it be prohibited to wait at the techoom until dusk? This 
may refer to fruit which was still attached to the ground (and 
could not be gathered on Sabbath even if the town had walls). 
How can this be said? Have we not learned that R. Oshea 
taught: “‘ One must not wait at the techoom to bring straw and 
chaff.’’ It would be correct concerning straw which is still 
attached to the ground; but how can this apply to chaff? This 
may refer to chaff which is used to mix with loam, and hence 
was designated for building purposes. 

Another objection was made! Come and hear: We have 
learned in the succeeding Mishna, that nightfall may be awaited 
at the techoom in the case of a bride and corpse; hence for other 
purposes one must not await nightfall at the techoom. It would 
be quite right if it said, in the case of things pertaining to a 
bride, for instance to cut off a myrtle-branch; but what things 
can be done pertaining to a corpse? Only the bringing of the 
coffin and the shroud? Why, then, should a man not be al- 
lowed to bring things which are the equivalent of the necessaries 
pertaining to a corpse? for if there were walls surrounding the 
town, he would be allowed to bring them. Why, then, should 
he not be permitted to wait at the techoom for the purpose of 
bringing them? Because the case may be, that things (as 
shrouds) pertaining to the corpse were not already prepared, but 
must be cut. 

VOL, 1I1.-——I1 


350 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


‘“ But of watching fruit beyond the techoom, he may await the 
dusk,’’ etc. May he do this even if he had not yet recited the 
Habhdalah prayer? Why! R. Elazar ben Antignous said in the 
name of R. Elazar ben Jacob, that a man must not transact his 
business at the close of Sabbath, before reciting the Habhdalah 
prayer. And if it be that he said the Habhdalah prayer while 
reciting the evening prayer, did not R. Jehudah in the name of 
Samuel say, that even if a man included the Habhdalah prayer in 
the evening prayer, he must say it again over the goblet of wine ? 
Should it then be said, that he said the prayer over the goblet 
also; how could he have done that ina field? This case refers 
to the time of wine-pressing (when it is possible to obtain a 
goblet of wine even in the field); such is the explanation of R. 
Nathan bar Ami to Rabh. Said R. Abato R. Ashi: ‘‘ In the 
West (Palestine) we simply say the benediction, ‘ Blessed be he, 
etc., who distinguishes between holy and ordinary days,’ and go 
right to work.’’ And R. Ashi said: ‘‘ When we were in the 
house of R. Kahana, he would pronounce the same benediction, 
and we would go and chop wood.’’ 

““ Abba Saul laid down the rule,’’ etc. Concerning what 
clause of the Mishna does Abba Saul lay down this rule? Shall 
we assume that he refers to the first clause of the Mishna, which 
decrees, that one must not stand at the extreme limit of the 
techoom and wait for dusk, and thus applies his rule? Then, 
instead of saying, “‘ Whatever I am permitted to prepare,”’ etc., 
he should have said in the negative, ‘‘ Whatever I am not per- 
mitted to say to another man he should do for me, I must not 
wait at the techoom to do myself.’’ If we assume, however, 
that the rule refers to the latter clause of the Mishna, namely, 
‘“but if watching fruit, he may await the dusk,’’ etc., then 
Abba should have applied his rule to the contrary; viz.: ‘‘ What- 
ever I am permitted to wait for at the techoom, I may tell 
another man to do for me.’’ Abba Saul applies his rule to the 
latter clause of the Mishna, and he refers to the following dic- 
tum of R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel, viz.: ‘* A man may 
say to his neighbor: ‘ Watch my fruit which is in your vicinity, 
and I will watch such of yours as is in my vicinity.’’’ This is 
commented upon by Abba Saul, addressing the first Tana as 
follows: ‘‘ You certainly admit that a man may say to his neigh- 
bor, ‘ Watch my fruit in thy vicinity and I will watch thine in 
my vicinity.” Now, say, ‘ Whatever I am permitted to tell my 
neighbor to do, I am also permitted to wait for at the techoom 


TRACT SABBATH. oon 


to do it myself.’’’ What does Abba Saul intend to supplement 
by laying down arule? He means to add what was taught by 
the rabbis, as follows: 

One must not wait at the techoom to bring home a stray 
animal; but if it is seen from the limits of the techoom, it may 
be called, so that it will come to within the techoom by itself. 
To this Abba Saul applied the rule, that if one may call to the 
animal, he may also wait at the techoom limits until dusk and 
bring it in himself. A man may also wait at the techoom limits 
to forward what is necessary for a bride; and also what is neces- 
sary for a corpse, to bring a coffin and shrouds for him; and we 
may say to him: ‘‘ Go toa certain place and take it; andif thou 
dost not find it in that place, go to another place; and if thou 
canst not buy it for one hundred Zuz, buy it for two hundred.’’ 
R. Jose the son of R. Jehudah said: ‘‘One must not specify 
the amount the necessaries are to be bought for, but merely say, 
‘If thou canst not get it for little money, get it for more.’ ”’ 

MISHNA: One may await the dusk at the limits of the 
techoom, to furnish what is necessary for a bride and fora 
corpse, and to bring a coffin and shrouds for the latter. If a 
Gentile brought mourning fifes on the Sabbath, an Israelite must 
not play (mourn) on them, unless they be brought from the 
vicinity. Ifa coffin had been made and a grave dug for him (on 
the Sabbath), an Israelite may be buried therein; but if it was 
done on purpose for an Israelite, he must not at any time be 
buried therein. 

GEMARA: What does the Mishna mean by saying, “* unless 
they be brought from the vicinity’’? Rabh said: “‘ By that is 
meant a place within. sight, where one is positive that it was 
within the limits of the techoom.’’ Samuel said: ‘* Even if it is 
not positively known that they came from within the limits of 
the techoom, but where it is presumed that such is the case, the 
fifes may be used.’’ Our Mishna seems to be in accord with 
Samuel’s explanation, because it says in the next clause, “‘ If a 
coffin had been made and a grave dug for him, an Israelite may 
be buried therein,’’ and it does not say positively that the two 
things were done for a Gentile; hence we see, that where an 
object is doubtful, we may presume that it is allowed. Thus in 
the case of the fifes, if there zs a doubt as to whence they were 
brought, they may nevertheless be used by an Israelite. We 
have learned in a Boraitha, however, a support to Rabh’s 
opinion; viz.: 


352 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


A city which contains both Israelites and Gentiles, and there 
is a bathhouse there which is heated on the Sabbath, if the ma- 
jority of the inhabitants are Gentiles an Israelite may go there 
immediately after sunset on the Sabbath. If there are more 
Israelites than Gentiles there, the Israelite must wait the length 
of time required to heat water afresh before going to the bath- 
house; and the same is the case in a city where there is an equal 
number of Jews and Gentiles. (This is a support to Rabh, be- 
cause, though it is doubtful whether the bath was heated for a 
Jew or a Gentile, still, the Israelite must wait.) R. Jehudah 
said: ‘‘ If the capacity of the bath be limited (so that water be 
heated quickly) and a notable man be present, the Israelite need 
not wait.’’ What is meant by a notable man? Said R. Jehu- 
dah in the name of R. Itz’hak the son of R. Jehudah: “‘ If 
there was a man present who had ten servants, who could heat 
ten jars of water at the same time, an Israelite might go and 
bathe himself.’’ * 

“Tf a coffin had been made and a grave dug for him,’’ etc. 
Why should we not wait until the length of time in which a 
new grave can be dug elapses? Said Ula: ‘‘ This refers to a 
paved way, where a grave is seldom dug for an Israelite (hence 
it must have been dug for a Gentile).’’ What can be said in ref- 
erence to the coffin? Said R. Abuha: ‘‘ If the coffin lie on the 
same grave.”’ 

MISHNA: One may do all that is necessary for a corpse (on 
Sabbath), anoint and wash it, provided he does not dislocate its 
limbs. The pillow may be moved from under its head; the 
corpse may be put on sand, in order to keep it (from putrefying) 
the longer; its jaws may be tied, not for the sake of bringing 
them together more closely, but to prevent them from dropping 
lower. In like manner, a beam that had been broken may be 
upheld by a stool or bedstead, not in order to make it erect 
again, but to keep it from breaking still more. 

GEMARA: Did not R. Jehudah in the name of Samuel 
say, that it once happened that a disciple of R. Meir, while en- 
tering behind his master into the bathhouse, wished to rinse off 
a place for his master to sit down, and his master would not per- 
mit it; so he wanted to grease the steps with oil, but the master 
said that the floor must not be oiled? Hence we see, that a 
thing which must not be handled must not be anointed or 





* Others say that this above Boraitha really supports Samuel on account of R. 
Jehudah, and Rashi remarks that he finds that the more plausible supposition. 








TRACT SABBATH. 353 


washed. How then is it permitted to wash and anoint a corpse ? 
If the floor of a bathhouse be allowed to be washed, there is fear 
lest another floor will be washed also (and thus smoothen any 
holes which may be in the floor); but a corpse and a floor cannot 
be confounded, and it is allowed to wash and anoint acorpse out 
of respect to the dead. 

What is meant to be supplemented by “‘ all that is necessary 
for a corpse’’? They meant to add what was taught by the 
rabbis; viz.: ‘‘ One may bring vessels for cooling the corpse, or 
iron vessels may be put on the belly of the corpse to keep it 
from swelling, and one may stop up any holes in the corpse to 
keep the air from entering.”’ 

MISHNA: One must not close the eyes of the dead on the 
Sabbath, nor (even) on the week-day, while he is expiring. 
Whoever closes the eyes of a dying person the instant he expires, 
is equal to the man who sheds blood (like a murderer). 

GEMARA: The rabbis taught: Who closes the eyes of a 
dying man is like a murderer, for it is the same asa candle which 
is about to go out. If aman lays a finger on the flame, it im- 
mediately becomes extinguished, but if left alone would still 
burn for a little time. The same can be applied to the case of 
an expiring man; if his eyes were not closed, he would live a 
little longer, and hence it is like murder. 

We have learned ina Boraitha: R. Simeon ben Gamaliel 
said: ‘‘ One who wishes that the eyes of a corpse should close, 
should inject wine into the nostrils of the corpse and anoint the 
eyelids with a little oil, and then pull the big toes of the feet, 
when the eyelids will close of themselves.’’ 

We have learned in another Boraitha: ‘‘ One should violate 
the Sabbath even for a child of one day, if it still have life; but 
fora corpse, even be it that of David, King of Israel, the Sab- 
bath must not be violated.’’ The reason for this is: For a child 
of even one day, the Sabbath should be violated, saith the 
Thorah, in order that it may keep many Sabbaths in the future; 
but David, King of Israel, when dead, can keep no more com- 
mandments. This is in accord with the saying of R. Johanan; 
viz. : It is written [Psalms Ixxxvili. 6]: “‘ Free among the dead,”’ 
etc.; which means, that when a man is dead, he is free from 
keeping any commandments. 

We have also learned in a Boraitha: R. Simeon ben Elazar 
said: A child of a day need not be guarded from the attacks of 
cats and dogs, but even when Og the King of Bashan is dead he 


354 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


must be guarded, as it is written [Genesis ix. 2]: “‘ And the fear 
of you and the dread of you shall be upon every beast of the 
earth,’’ etc. Hence, as long as a man lives, the beasts are in 
dread of him; but as soon as he is dead, the fear is destroyed. 

We have learned in another Boraitha: R. Simeon ben Elazar 
said: As long as thou canst, practise charity: as long as thou 
hast the opportunity and as long as it is in thy hands. For Sol- 
omon said in his wisdom [Ecclesiastes xii. 1]: ‘‘ But remember 
also thy Creator in the days of thy youthful vigor, while the evil 
days (meaning old age) are not yet come, nor those years draw 
nigh of which thou wilt say, I have no pleasure in them.”’ By 
that is meant, the days of the Messiah, because at that time 
there will be neither rich nor poor: all will be rich (and no op- 
portunity for charity will present itself). This differs with the 
teaching of Samuel, who says, that there is no difference between 
the present time and the days of Messiah, only that one is sub- 
ject to the government at the present time, while then it will not 
be so, as it is written [Deut. xv. 11]: ‘‘ For the needy will not 
cease out of the land.”’ 

We have learned in a Boraitha: R. Elazar Hakappar said: A 
man should always pray for deliverance from poverty, although 
if he himself will not eventually come to poverty, his children 
or his grandchildren will, as it is written [Deut. xv. 11]; °° For 
the needy will not cease out of the land, therefore do I com- 
mand thee,’’ etc. (The Hebrew term for “‘therefore’’ is 
‘ Biglal,’’ and the school of Ishmael taught that Biglal is the 
equivalent of Galgal, meaning a ‘‘ wheel,’’ thus inferring, from 
that word, that poverty is like a wheel, always turning from one 
to the other.) 

R. Joseph said: ‘‘ There is a tradition extant, that a diligent 
young scholar will never become poor.’’ But we see that he 
sometimes does become poor? Still, we have never seen one so 
poor that he had to beg his bread from house to house. 

Said R. Hyya to his wife: ‘“‘ If thou seest a man about to 
beg bread from thee, hasten to give it to him, that he might at 
some other time do likewise for thy children.’’ Said she to 
him: ‘‘ Art thou cursing thy children ?’’ ‘‘ Nay; I am simply 
quoting the verse above, as interpreted by the school of Ishmael, 
that poverty is a wheel continually turning.’’ 

We have learned in a Boraitha: Rabbon Gamaliel the Great * 








* This means Gamaliel the Second, who was the Nassi in Jamnia, and he is 
entitled ‘‘ the Great ” in many places. 








Ris 


TRACT SABBATH. 3009 


said thus: It 16 written | Deut. xvii, 18]: And crant thee 
mercy and have mercy upon thee, and multiply thee,’’ etc. This 
means to say, that one who hath mercy upon creatures will be 
granted mercy from above, but one who hath not mercy upon 
other creatures will not be granted mercy from above. 

It is written [Ecclesiastes xii. 2]: ‘‘ While the sun, and the 
light, and the moon, and the stars are not yet darkened.’’ The 
sun and the light are compared to the brow and the nose, the 
moon to the soul, the stars to the cheeks; and further, the verse 
reads: ‘‘ And the clouds return not again after the rain,’’ which 
means, that after weeping the eyes become dim. (The entire 
verse is, according to this interpretation, not applicable to the 
end of the world but to a human life.) 

Samuel said: “‘ Up to forty years of age, the eyes of a man 
which have become dim through tears may yet be restored by 
different remedies, but beyond that age there is no remedy for 
them ’’; and R. Na’hman said: ‘‘ The dye used for the eyes 
makes them brighter until a man is forty years of age; after that 
age, however, it may preserve the eyes, but does not help them, 
even if the eyes are filled with dye.’’ What are we given to 
understand by this statement ? We are told that, the larger the 
brush used for applying the dye to the eye, the better it is for 
the eyes. 

One of R. Hanina’s daughters died, and he did not weep 
over her death. Said his wife to him: “‘ Was a hen carried out 
of thy house?’’ ‘‘Is it not sufficient that our child died; 
wouldst thou have me lose my eyes through weeping ?’’ replied 
R. Hanina; and he is of the opinion of R. Johanan, who said 
in the name of R. Jose ben Katzartha: “‘ There are six kinds of 
tears in the eyes, three of which are good for the eyes and three 
bad. Tears generated by smoke, weeping, or disorder of the 
bowels are bad for the eyes; but those that are caused through 
laughing, acrid fruits (such as mustard), and medicaments which 
are applied to produce tears, are good for the eyes.”’ 

It is written [Ecclesiastes xii. 3]: “‘On the day when the 
watchmen of the house will tremble’’: this refers to the bowels 
and the sides which protect the bowels; ‘‘ the men of might will 
bend themselves,’’ meaning the legs of the man; ‘‘ and those be 
darkened that look through the windows,’’ refers to the eyes. 

Cesar asked of R. Jehoshua ben Hananiah: ‘‘ Why didst 
thou not come to the debating rooms ?’’ and he answered: 
‘‘ The mountain is covered with snow’’ (meaning his head was 


356 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


gray), ‘‘ the surrounding paths are icy ”’ (meaning his beard was 
gray), ‘‘ the dogs do not bark any more ”’ (meaning his voice was 
inaudible), ‘‘ and the millstones grind no more”’ (meaning his 
teeth were decayed). 

The school of Rabh would say of an old man: “‘ He hath 
lost nothing and is constantly seeking ’’ (meaning that he was 
always bowed down). 

We have learned in a Boraitha: R. Jose bar Kisma said: 
‘Two are better than three ’’ (referring to two legs, instead of 
two legs and a stick). ‘‘ Woe is to the one who goeth away and 
doth not return,’’ so said he. What does he mean by it? Said 
R. Hisda: ‘‘ Youth.” 

When R. Dimi came from Palestine, he said: ‘‘ Youth is a 
crown of roses, and old age a crown of thorns.”’ 

We have learned in the name of R. Meir: Be heedful of 
thy teeth and thou wilt show it in thy step, as it is written [Jer- 
emiah xliv. 17]: ‘‘ When we had plenty of food and fared well 
and saw no evil.’’ Said Samuel to his disciple R. Jehudah: 
“Thou sagacious man! When thou goest to eat, untie thy 
stomacher and bring in thy bread! Before the age of forty, eat- 
ing is more wholesome; but after that, drinking is better.’’ 

A eunuch (who was a Sadducee) said to R. Jehoshua, who 


was bald-headed, with the intent to tease him: ‘‘ How far is it 
from here to Bald city ?’’ and he answered: “ Just as far as 
from here to Castrate city.’’ The eunuch said again: “‘ I no- 


ticed that a bald goat only cost four Zuz’’; and R. Jehoshua 
said: ‘‘ Yea! and I noticed that the privates which were cut 
away from a he-goat cost eight Zuz.’’ The eunuch noticed that 
R. Jehoshua did not wear shoes, and said: ‘‘ He who rides a 
horse is a king, he who rides an ass is a nobleman, he who 
wears shoes is at least a man, but he who does not even wear 
shoes is worse off than a corpse in his grave.’”’ Said R. Je- 
hoshua: ‘‘ Thou eunuch! Thou hast told me three things, and 
three things thou shalt presently hear from me: The beauty of 
the face is a beard, the joy of the heart is a wife, and God’s in- 
heritance is children. Blessed be the place that has kept thee 
from all these joys.’’ The eunuch retorted: ‘‘ Thou bald-head! 
Wouldst thou quarrel with me!’’ and R. Jehoshua replied: 
“Thou eunuch! Thou camest to tease me.’’ 

Rabbi said to R. Simeon the son of Halaphta: “ Why did 
we not have the pleasure of thy company on the festivals, as 
our parents had the pleasure of thy parents’ company ?’’ and he 


TRACT SABBATH. 357 


answered: ‘‘ The hills have become mountains, those who were 
near have become distant, two have become three, and the 
peacemaker of the house is gone’’ (meaning, ‘‘ I have become 
old, can make but short steps, must have a cane to lean on, and 
my teeth are gone’’). 

It is written [Ecclesiastes xii. 4]: ‘‘ And when the two doors 
on the streets will be locked, while the sound of the mill be- 
cometh dull, and man riseth up at the voice of the bird’’; and 
means, that in old age a man’s stomach refuses to digest and he 
cannot excrementize, and he becomes so weak that the least 
sound, such as piping of a bird, will awaken him from his slum- 
bers. Even so said Barzillai the Gileadite to King David [II 
Samuel xix. 36]: “‘I am eighty years old this day; can I dis- 
cern between good and evil ?’’ which proves to us that the mind 
of an old man changes; and further, it says: ‘‘ Or can thy ser- 
vant taste what I eat or what I drink?’’ From this we see 
that an old man’s sense of taste is lost; and further, again: 
“Or can I listen yet to the voice of singing men and sing- 
ing women ?’’ which proves to us that old men become hard 
of hearing. Said Rabh: “‘ Barzillai the Gileadite was a liar; 
for the servant who was in the house of Rabbi was ninety- 
two years old, and she would taste all the dishes that were 
being cooked.’’ Said Rabha: “ Barzillai was a lascivious man, 
and a man of that kind ages very rapidly and loses all his 
senses.”’ 

We have learned in a Boraitha: R. Ishmael bar R. Jose said: 
““ The older scholars become, the more wisdom comes to them, 
as it is written [Job xii. 12]: ‘ So is with the ancients wisdom, 
and with those of length of days understanding.’ With ignorant 
men, however, it is different. The older they become, the more 
ignorant they are, as it is written [ibid. 20]: ‘ He removeth the 
speech from trusty speakers and taketh away the intelligence of 
the aged.’ ’’ 

It is written [Ecclesiastes xii. 5]: ‘‘ Also when men will be 
afraid of every elevation.’’ To an aged man, even a little hil- 
lock appears as a high mountain; “‘ and are terrified on every 
way,’’ and they are afraid of everything on their way; ‘‘ and 
the almond-tree will refuse (its blossom),’’ meaning that the 
joints of the limbs will refuse to do their duty; ‘‘ and the locust 
will drag itself slowly along, and the desire will gainsay compli- 
ance,’’ means that the desires of old men wane. 

Said R. Kahana: ‘‘ What is written [Psalms xxxiii. 9]: ‘ For 


358 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


he spoke, and it came into being,’ refers to a woman; and ‘he 
commanded, and it stood fast,’ refers to children.’’ 

It is written [Ecclesiastes xii. 5]: ‘“ Because man goeth to 
his eternal home.’’ Said R. Itz’hak: ‘‘ This proves that every 
righteous man is given a dwelling in the world to come according 
to his merit, and this is like a king with his slaves entering a 
city. They all enter through one gate, but when night comes 
every man is given a berth in accordance with his rank.’’ 

R. Itz’hak said again: “‘ It is written [Ecclesiastes xi. 10]: 
‘ For childhood and the time when the head is black* are van- 
ity,’ and means to say, that the deeds committed in youth 
blacken the reputation in old age.”’ 

R. Itz’hak said again: The worms are as disagreeable to a 
corpse as pricks of needles are to a man, even if an excrescence 
only is pricked, as it is written [Job xiv. 22]: “‘ But his body on 
him feeleth pain, and his soul will mourn for him.’’ R. Hisda 
said: ‘‘ The soul of a man mourns for him the first seven days 
after his death, and that is based upon an analogy of expres- 
sion; viz.: It is written [Genesis Il. 10]: ‘And he made for his 
father a mourning of seven days’; and the verse in Job previ- 
ously quoted also contains the word ‘ mourn,’ hence the anal- 
ogy.” 

R. Jehudah said: ‘‘ If a corpse has left none to mourn him, 
ten men should go to the place where he died and mourn his 
death.’’ A stranger, who had none to mourn him, died in the 
neighborhood of R. Jehudah; so every day R. Jehudah took 
ten men, went to the place where the stranger died, and mourned 
for him. After seven days, the spirit of the stranger appeared 
to R. Jehudah in a dream, and said to him: ‘‘ May thy heart be 
as light as thou hast made mine.”’ 

Said R. Abuha: ‘‘ All that is said in the presence of a corpse 
is known to the latter, until he is buried and the earth is thrown 
on top of him.’’” R. Hyya and R. Simeon bar Rabbi differ con- 
cerning this: One says, until the corpse is buried, and the other, 
until the flesh is decomposed. He who says until the flesh is 
decomposed, bases his assertion on the previously cited verse: 
‘‘But his body on him feeleth pain, and his soul will mourn 
him.’’ The other, who says ‘‘ only until he is buried,’’ bases 
his assertion upon the verse [Ecclesiastes xii. 7]: ‘“ When the 





* The Hebrew expression for ‘‘ the time when the head is black”’ is ** Shachrus,” 
meaning blackness. 


TRACT SABBATH, 359 


dust will return to the earth as it was, and the spirit will return 
unto God who gave it.’”’ 

The rabbis taught: “‘ Return the soul to the Lord as clean as 
He gave it tothee.’’ Thisis illustrated by a parable of a king who 
once gave to his attendants suits of clothes. The wise among 
them took care of them, kept them clean and folded, and used 
them on special occasions only. The fools put them on and 
performed their work in them. Naturally, the clothes became 
dirty. All at once, the king demanded the clothes back again. 
The wise men returned them clean and whole, but the fools 
returned them in a dirty and dilapidated condition. The king 
was well pleased with the wise men, and told them to depart in 
peace, and had their clothes stored; but the clothes of the fools 
he ordered to be sent to the washers, and the fools were sent to 
prison. So does also the Holy One, blessed be He. Concerning 
the bodies of the righteous men, He saith [Isaiah lvii. 2]: “‘ He 
shall come in peace: they shall repose in their resting-place”’ ; 
and concerning the souls he saith [I Samuel xxv. 29]: ‘‘ Yet will 
the soul of my lord be bound in the bond of life with the Lord 
thy God.’’ Concerning the bodies of the wicked, He saith 
[Isaiah Ixviii. 22]: ‘‘ There is no peace, saith the Lord, unto 
the wicked’’; and concerning the souls of the wicked, He saith 
[I Samuel xxv. 29]: “‘ And the soul of thy enemies will he hurl 
away, as out of the middle of the sling.’’ 

We have learned: R. Eliezer said: “‘ The souls of righteous 
men are deposited underneath the throne of honor, as it is writ- 
ten: ‘ Yet will the soul of my lord be bound in the bond of 
life’; and the souls of the wicked are crowded together until 
they are crushed, as it is written: ‘ The souls of thy enemies 
will he hurl away.’’’ ‘*‘ How is it with the souls of men who are 
neither righteous nor wicked ?”’ asked Rabba of R. Na’hman. 
He answered: “‘ If I were dead, ye would not know it.’’ Sam- 
uel said: The souls of the righteous, of the ordinary men, and 
of the wicked are given over to the angel whose name is Domah, 
who has charge of all souls. The souls of the righteous are given 
their resting-place soon; the others are not given rest until they 
come before the divine judgment. 

Said R. Mari: ‘‘ The bodies of righteous men also decom- 
pose, as it is written: ‘ When the dust will return to the earth, 
as it was.’ ”’ 

Diggers were digging some earth belonging to R. Na’hman. 
They came to the grave where R. Achai bar Yashia was buried, 


360 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


and the corpse scolded them. The diggers came to R. Na’h- 
man, and told him that a man who was buried on his ground had 
scolded them. So R. Na’hman went himself to the grave, and 
asked: ‘‘ Who art thou, Master?’’ and the man in the grave 
answered: ‘‘ I am called Achai bar Yashia.’” Said R. Na’hman 
to him: “‘ Did not R. Mari say, that the bodies of the right- 
eous shall turn to dust ?’’ and the corpse replied: ‘‘ Who is this 
Mari? I know him not.’’ But R. Na’hman persisted: “‘ It is 
written: ‘ When the dust shall return to the earth, as it was.’ ”’ 
And the corpse retorted: “‘ He who taught thee Ecclesiastes, 
did not teach thee Proverbs, where it is written [Ch. xiv. 30]: 
‘ Jealousy is the rottenness of the bones’; and if thy teacher 
had explained this to thee, thou wouldst have known, that he 
who hath jealousy in his heart, his bones shall rot after death, 
but he who hath no jealousy in his heart, his bones shall not rot.”’ 
Thereupon R. Na’hman felt the dead man’s bones, and truly 
they were sound. Sohe saidtohim: ‘‘ Let the Master arise and 
go home with me for a while.’? And the dead man answered: 
‘“ By this remark thou hast proven to me that thou hast not 
even studied the prophets, for it is written [Ezekiel xxxvii. 13]: 
‘ And ye shall know that Iam the Lord, when I open your graves, 
and when I cause you to come up out of your graves’ (for this 
would tell thee, that only the Lord can make me arise, and still 
thou askest me to go with thee).’’ “‘ Yea,’’ quoth R. Na’hman; 
‘but there is another passage [Genesis iii. 19]: ‘ For dust thou 
art, and to dust thou shalt return.’’’ ‘‘ This will, however, 
be only one hour before the final resurrection,’’ answered the 
corpse. 

A certain Sadducee said to R. Abuha: ‘‘ Ye say that the 
souls of the righteous are deposited underneath the throne of 
honor. How, then, could the woman of the familiar spirit 
whom King Saul consulted,* bring up the soul of Samuel ?”’ 
R. Abuha answered: ‘“‘ That happened during the first twelve- 
month after the death of Samuel, as we have learned in a Bo- 
raitha, that during the first twelvemonth the souls of the deceased 
come up and down; but after that period the soul ascends to 
heaven and does not return.’’ 

Said R. Jehudah, the son of R. Samuel bar Shila, in the 
name of Rabh: ‘‘ From the funeral sermon held over the remains 
of the deceased, it may be observed whether they will enter the 





* See I Samuel xxviii. 














TRACT “SABBATH. 361 


kingdom of Heaven or not.’’ (If the funeral sermon is in the 
form of a eulogy and the deceased was much beloved, it can be 
presumed that he will have a happy time in the beyond.) This 
isnot so! For did not Rabh say to R. Samuel bar Shila: ‘“‘ See 
that thou makest my funeral oration exceeding touching, for I 
shall be there.’’ R. Jehudah meant to say, that when the ser- 
mon is touching, and elicits a responsive chord in the breasts of 
the audience; for some orations may be made ever so touching, 
but if the deceased was not deserving, it will produce no effect 
whatever. Said Abayi to Rabba: ‘‘ Thou, Master, who hast 
not a single friend in Pumbaditha, who will mourn thy death ?’’ 
‘Thou and Rabba bar R. Hana will suffice,’” answered Rabba. 

R. A’ha asked Rabh: ‘‘ Who is the man that will live in the 
world to come?’’ He answered by quoting the verse [Isaiah 
xxx. 21]: “ And thy ears shall hear the word behind thee, say- 
ing, This is the way; walk ye in it, when ye turn to the right 
hand and when ye turn to the left.””* R. Hanina said: “ The 
man who gives satisfaction to our masters.”’ . 

It is written [Ecclesiastes xii. 5]: ‘“‘ And the mourners go 
about the streets.’’ The Galileans said: ‘‘ Do such things as 
will be spoken of to thy credit in thy funeral sermon sand the 
Judzans said: ‘‘ Do such things as will be spoken of after thy 
burial.’’ There is no difference in the two statements, for in 
Galilee the funeral sermon was held before burial, and in Judza 
after burial. 

We have learned (in the Mishna Abhoth): ‘‘ One day before 
thy death, thou shalt repent of thy sins,’’ said R. Eivezer> and 
his disciples asked him, ‘‘ Can a man know on which day he will 
die ?’’ and he answered: ‘‘ For just that reason, he should 
repent to-day, lest he die to-morrow. Thus all his days will be 
spent in repentance. So also hath Solomon said in his wisdom 
[Ecclesiastes ix. 8]: ‘ At all times let thy garments be white, 
and let not oil be wanting on thy head.’ ”’ Commenting upon 
this, R. Johanan ben Zakkai said: ‘‘ This is illustrated by a par- 
able about a king who invited his retainers toa banquet, but did 
not state the time; the wise among them dressed and were 
ready, standing in front of the palace, for they said: ‘In a 
king’s house nothing is wanting. Perhaps the banquet takes 
place to-day.’ The fools, however, went about their business, 





* The significance of the verse is explained by Rashi as follows : When we hear 
of a man who has died, and we are told to walk in his ways and to do as he did, such 
a man will live in the world to come. 


362 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


saying: ‘Can a banquet be given without preparation?’ Sud- 
denly the king called in his retainers to the banquet. The wise 
went in becomingly attired, while the fools went in in their 
working clothes. The king was well pleased with the wise, and 
angry with the fools, and said: ‘ Those that are prepared and 
attired for the banquet shall sit down, eat, drink, and be merry; 
but those that are not, shall stand and look on, but shall receive 
nothing.’’’ Said the son-in-law of R. Meir, in the latter’s name: 
Then it would appear as if those standing were waiting upon those 
who were sitting (and they would not be ashamed). They were 
also to sit down, but while the others ate they would be hungry, 
and while the others drank they would remain thirsty, as it is 
written [Isaiah Ixv. 13 and 14]: ‘‘ Therefore, thus hath said the 
Lord Eternal, Behold, my servants shall eat, but ye shall be 
hungry; behold, my servants shall drink, but ye shall be thirsty ; 
behold, my servants shall rejoice, but ye shall be made ashamed ; 
behold, my servants shall sing for joy of heart, but ye shall cry 
out from pain of heart, and from a broken spirit shall ye howl ”’ ; 
and on this account it is written: ‘‘ At all times let thy garments 
be white,’’ etc. 








CHAPTER XXTY, 


REGULATIONS CONCERNING A MAN WHO IS OVERTAKEN BY DUSK ON 
THE EVE OF SABBATH WHILE TRAVELLING, AND CONCERNING 
FEEDING OF CATTLE. 


MISHNA: One who (on the eve of Sabbath) is overtaken 
by the dusk on the road must give his purse to a Gentile (while 
it is yet day). If there is no Gentile with him, he must put it 
on the ass. As soon as hearrives at the outmost court (dwelling 
of the first town or village he reaches), he must take off all such 
things as may be handled on the Sabbath; and as for the things 
which must not be handled he must loosen the cords, so that 

they fall off themselves. 

GEMARA: Why was it allowed for a man to give his purse 
to the Gentile accompanying him [he (the Gentile) acts for 
him]? Because it was known to the rabbis that a man is anx- 
ious about his money, and if it were not allowed, he might 
carry it himself in public ground. Said Rabha: ‘‘ He may do 
this with his own purse; but if he found something, he must not 
have it carried for him.’’ Is this not self-evident ? Did we not 
learn in the Mishna, “‘ his purse’’ ? We might assume that the 
same would apply to something found, and the Mishna says only 
“his purse,’’ because that is the usual occurrence; hence Rabha 
teaches us as mentioned. Even in the case of something which 
was found, the prohibition applies only if the man had not yet 
had it in his hand; but if he had, it is regarded the same as his 
purse. 

““ Tf there 1s no Gentile with him,’’ etc. If there zs a Gentile 
with him, he must give his purse to the Gentile. Why not put 
it on the ass in the first place? Because concerning the ass 
there is acommandment to let it rest, but no such commandment 
exists for a Gentile. How is the case if the man had accom- 
panying him an ass, a deaf-mute,* an idiot, and a minor? To 
whom must he give his purse in that event ? He must put it on 





* A deaf-mute is exempt by law from keeping any commandments. 
363 


364 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


the ass. Whyso? Because the deaf-mute and the minor are 
human beings, and he might by accident give it to an Israelite 
who was not a deaf-mute ora minor. How is it if he had with 
him a deaf-mute and an idiot only? He must give it to the 
idiot (because a deaf-mute has more sense than an idiot). How 
is it with an idiot and a minor? He must give it to the idiot. 
All this has been finally decided, but the question that presented 
itself to the schoolmen was, to whom the purse must be given if 
the man had with him a deaf-mute and a minor. Some say he 
should give it to the deaf-mute, and others, to the minor. 

How is it if the man have nobody along, no Gentile, no ass, 
no deaf-mute, no idiot, and no minor? What should he do 
then? Said R. Itz’hak: ‘‘ There was another mode of proced- 
ure, which the sages would not reveal.’’ What was that? He 
should carry it less than four ells at a time (¢.e., carry it a little 
less than four ells and stop, then start and carry it on again for 
less than four ells, and so on). Why would the sages not reveal 
this? Because it is written [Proverbs xxv. 2]: “‘ It is the honor 
of God to conceal a thing; but the honor of kings is to search 
out a matter.’’ Where is the honor of God concerned in this 
matter? Perhaps the man will not stop, but go on and carry it 
over four ells. 

We have learned in a Boraitha: R. Eliezer said: ‘‘ On the 
day when the eighteen precautionary measures were instituted 
in the attic of Hananiah ben Hizkyah ben Garon (this measure 
concerning the purse of the traveller was also instituted, viz., 
that he should not carry it but give it to the Gentile), and the 
measure of laws was made heaping full.’’ R. Jehoshua, how- 
ever, says, that the measure was smoothened in too great a 
degree,* and we have learned that R. Eliezer meant to say what 
his simile illustrates; viz.: There was a basket filled with 
cucumbers and beets to the brim; and if a man put in mustard- 
seed, there is an addition, without, however, forcing out any- 
thing else. Thus the measure was full, but not overflowing. 
R. Jehoshua, however, compares it as follows: There was a tub 
filled with honey, and nuts were thrown into it, in consequence 
of which the honey overflowed and some was spilled. (This 
means, that by the institution of those precautionary measures 
the Mosaic laws were undermined.) 

The Master said: ‘‘ If there was no Gentile with him, he 





* See Appendix. 


TRACT SABBATH. 305 


should put it on the ass?’’ How is it that he may do this? If 
he put it on the ass, he will be compelled to drive the ass, and 
surely this is also labor, which is prohibited on the Sabbath, as 
it is written [Exod. xx. 10]: ‘‘ On it thou shalt not do any 
work.’’ Said R. Ada bar Abha: The man must put the purse on 
the ass, while the latter is walking along; in that case, no trans- 
fer from one fixed point takes place (because while both are 
walking it cannot be said that the purse is resting in one partic- 
ular place). It is, however, impossible that the ass should not 
rest at some place for a little while ? When the ass rests, the 
man removes the purse; and when it commences to walk again, 
he puts it back. If that is so, it would be the same if he would 
transfer his purse to a fellow-Israelite while walking, and he would 
never be guilty of the act of transferring from one (fixed) place 
and depositing in another? Said R. Papa: An act which, if 
committed by one man unassisted, would make him liable for a 
sin-offering (¢.g., if he, while running or walking, should pick 
up something off the ground even without stopping, he would 
become liable for a sin-offering), he must not commit wth the 
assistance of a companion; but if he did so, he is not liable for 
a sin-offering (¢.g., if he picked up a thing and placed it on his 
companion while the latter was walking, in that event neither is 
culpable, for the one did not deposit it in a fixed place, and the 
other did not remove it from a fixed place). Such acts, however, 
as must not be committed with the aid of a companion may be 
done with the assistance of an ass in the first place. 

RK. Ada bar Abha said again: ‘‘ If a man has a bundle on his 
shoulders before dusk on the Sabbath while on the road, he may 
run with the burden until he reaches home, but he must not 
walk his usual gait.’”” Why so? Because, if he walks in the 
usual manner, he might stop (and by stopping carry out the pro- 
hibited transfer from one fixed point and depositing in another). 
When he reaches home, however, he must stop for some time, 
and thus he would bring a thing from public ground into private 
ground? The remedy for this is, to throw the bundle from his 
shoulders backwards, and not in the usual manner. 

Rabha the brother of R. Mari bar Rachel taught the follow- 
ing decree in the name of R. Johanan: ‘‘ One who drives cattle 
on the Sabbath (even if they are burdened) is free.’” Why so? 
If he did so unintentionally, he cannot be liable for a sin-offer- 
ing, because Sabbath laws are identical with those of idolatry. 


In like manner, as a man cannot be guilty of idolatry unless he 
VOL. 1.12 ; 


366 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


worship with his own body, so it is with the Sabbatical law. If 
he perform labor through the medium of his cattle, without 
doing any himself, he cannot be guilty. Even if he did it inten- 
tionally, he is also not guilty. Why so? Because we have 
learned in a Mishna (Tract Sanhedrin): ‘‘ Among those who are 
subject to capital punishment (by stoning) is he who violates the 
Sabbath by an act which, if done intentionally, carries with it 
such punishment (stoning), and which, if done unintentionally, 
makes one liable for a sin-offering.’’ Hence, if the uninten- 
tional performance of such an act does not carry with it liability 
to bring a sin-offering, its intentional performance cannot carry 
with it the punishment of stoning, nor the punishment of 
stripes; because, where the penalty for the violation of a nega- 
tive commandment is death, stripes cannot be inflicted; and 
even according to the Tana who holds that stripes can be inflicted 
for such violation, in this case it could not be done, because, 
were the verse to be read, ‘‘ Thou shalt not do any labor, nor 
thy cattle,’’ it would be right; but the verse distinctly says, 
‘Thou shalt not do any labor, neither thou, etc., nor thy cat- 
tle.’’ Hence, when the work was not done jointly by the man 
and his cattle, he cannot be punished in any manner for a viola- 
tion of the Sabbath. 

‘* As soon as he arrives at the outmost court,’’ etc. Said R. 
Huna: ‘‘ If the ass was laden with glassware, he may bring cush- 
ions and place them on the ground, so that when he loosens the 
cords the glassware may fall on the cushions and escape being 
broken.’’ We have learned, however, that such vessels as may 
be handled on the Sabbath may be removed from the ass; and 
why may not the glassware be handled? R. Huna refers to 
glassware which belongs to a surgeon, and being dirty (bloody) 
is unfit for use in a household. In that case, then, the man 
would render the cushions which he places on the ground to 
receive the falling glassware unfit for their proper use, and this is 
prohibited on the Sabbath? The cushions are only to be used 
in order to break the fall of the glassware, and after the glassware 
rolls off on to the ground, the cushions can be used as before. 

We have learned in a Boraitha: R. Simeon ben Jochai said: 
‘“‘ If a sheaf of grain (the tithes of which had not yet been sepa- 
rated) is on the back of the ass, the man may push it off with his 
head, so that it fall to the ground.’’ The ass of R. Gamaliel 
was once laden with honey, and, the Sabbath having set in, R. 
Gamaliel would not allow the ass to be unloaded until the Sab- 


TRACT SABBATH. 367 


bath was over. This proved too much for the animal and it 
dropped dead. 

We have learned in the Mishna, that such things as may be 
handled on Sabbath may be removed from the animal; why was 
not the honey removed? The honey had become spoiled. If 
the honey was spoiled, why was it brought ? It was intended to 
be used for the bruises on camels. Then the cords should have 
been loosened and the honey allowed to fall off? The honey 
was in (inflated) skins, and would have burst if allowed to fall. 
Then cushions should have been placed on the ground to receive 
them ? The cushions would have become soiled, and thus ren- 
dered unfit for use. Pity should have been taken on the animal, 
and it should not have been allowed to stand laden all day ? 
Pity for animals is only a rabbinical institution according to 
R. Gamaliel, and thus he could not observe it lest he violate the 
Sabbath. 

Abayi once saw Rabba playing with his little son, and setting 
him on the back of an ass, so he said to him: ‘‘ Why! Does 
Master use an animal on Sabbath!’’ and Rabba answered: 
‘‘ This cannot be called using an animal in the regular manner, 
but just incidental use, and that was not prohibited by the 
rabbis.”’ 

Abayi objected: ‘‘ Have we not learned that if two walls of 
a booth (to be used on the Feast of Tabernacles) were made 
by hand, and the third wall was already made by a tree, the 
booth might be used for ritual purposes; but it is not allowed 
to ascend to the roof of the booth on a festival, because the 
tree serves as a support to the roof, and by ascending the roof 
the tree would be used, which is prohibited ? Hence we see 
that, although that would be incidental and not direct use, still it 
is prohibited ?’’ Rabba answered: “‘ In the case cited by thee, 
a tree is referred to, the branches of which were also part of the 
roof.’’ The Mishna seems to have this meaning attributed to it 
by Rabba, for in a later clause it is stated, that should the tree 
(which partly supports the booth) be removed, and the booth can 
stand by itself, one may ascend it; hence the tree is regarded as 
an independent wall. 

MISHNA: One may untie bundles of straw for cattle, also 
strew stalks for them, but one must not undo tied bundles of 
Zirin.* Herbs used as fodder, and carob-pods, must not be cut 





* This term will be explained in the Gemara farther on. 


368 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


up for cattle, large or small. R. Jehudah permits the cutting 
up of carob-pods for small cattle. 

GEMARA: Said R. Huna: “ There is no difference between 
bundles of straw and stalks, except that the former are tied twice 
while the latter are trebly tied, and by Zirin is meant the young 
branches of a cedar-tree (which when young are still tender and 
are eaten by cattle); and the Mishna should be explained thus: 
One may untie bundles of straw for cattle, and also strew them, 
and the same may be done with stalks, but not with Zirin; the 
latter must neither be untied nor strewn.’’ Said R. Hisda: 
‘“ What reason has R. Huna for explaining the Mishna in this 
manner? He means to say, that on account of such things as 
are already proper fodder for cattle one may trouble himself on 
Sabbath, but on account of such as must first be prepared as 
fodder, one should not trouble himself.’’ R. Jehudah, how- 
ever, says, that bundles of straw and Zirin are identical, Except 
that the former were tied twice and the latter trebly, but stalks 
signify cedar boughs; and he explains the Mishna thus: ‘‘ We 
may untie bundles of straw for cattle, but not strew them; 
stalks may also be strewn; the Zirin, however, may be untied, 
but not strewn.’’ Said Rabha: ‘‘ What is the reason for R. 
Jehudah’s explanation? He holds, that we may prepare things 
for the use of cattle, but we must not trouble ourselves on ac- 
count of such things as are already fit fodder for cattle.”’ 

An objection was made to the foregoing (based on the latter 
clause of the Mishna): ‘‘ Herbs used for fodder and carob-pods 
must not be cut up for cattle.’ As herbs are mentioned in con- 
junction with carob-pods, we must assume, that as the herbs 
were soft, so were also the carob-pods; and, it being prohibited to 
cut them up, we see that with such things as are already proper 
fodder we must not trouble ourselves, and this is contrary to the 
dictum of R. Huna? R. Huna might say to the contrary, that 
as the carob-pods are hard, so also are the herbs. Where do we 
find that herbs should be cut up for cattle, they generally eat 
them as they are? This refers to young calves and mule-colts. 

(Another objection was raised.) Come and hear: One may 
cut up pumpkins for cattle and carrion for dogs. Then we may 
say, that as carrion is soft, so also are the pumpkins; and hence 
we see, that we may trouble ourselves even with such articles as 
are already fit fodder for cattle, and this is contradictory to R. 
Jehudah’s opinion? R. Jehudah might say to the contrary, 
that as the pumpkins were hard, so was also the carrion. How 


TRACT SABBATH. 369 


can that be? Supposing it was the carcass of an elephant, or 
the dogs were young and could not eat carrion without having 
it cut up for them. 

MISHNA: A camel must not be crammed (to fatten it), nor 
may it be forced to eat: but the food may be put into its mouth. 
Calves must not be crammed, but the food may be put into 
their mouths. Poultry may be fed and crammed; water may be 
poured on bran, but the bran must not be kneaded. One must 
not put water before bees, or before doves in a dove-cot; but 
one may put it before geese, before poultry, and before house- 
pigeons. 

GEMARA: What is meant by ‘‘ must not be crammed’”’? 
Said R. Jehudah: ‘‘ By that is meant, that the stomach of the 
camel should not be turned into a feed-bag.’’ Can such a 
thing be done? Said R. Jeremiah of Diphti:‘‘ Yea; I saw with 
my own eyes, that an itinerant merchant fed his camel a meas- 
ure of grain, and when it had consumed that, he forced another 
measure down its throat.”’ 

‘* Calves must not be crammed, but the food may be put into 
their mouths,’ etc. What is the difference between cramming 
and putting food into the calf’s mouth? R. Jehudah said, that 
cramming is accomplished when the food is stuffed down into 
the calf’s mouth so that it cannot eject it, and putting food into 
its mouth is merely as is implied by the term; and R. Hisda 
said, that in both cases the food is forced down so far that the 
calf cannot eject it; but in cramming, some instrument is used, 
and the other is done by hand. 

R. Joseph objected: We have learned in a Boraitha, that 
poultry may be crammed, and so much the more food may be 
given to the poultry a little ata time. The contrary is the case 
with doves. Food must not be given them even a little at a 
time, and much less may they be crammed. Now what is the 
difference between cramming and forcing them to eat a little at 
a time? Shall we assume that by cramming is meant, forcing 
the food down by hand, and by giving them food a little at a time 
is meant, throwing it to them? If so, why should doves not be 
fed in that manner? Is it then prohibited to throw them food ? 
We must therefore say, that in both cases the food is given by 
hand, but in cramming the food is forced down so that it cannot 
be ejected, while in the other case it can be ejected. If this 
applies to poultry, then we must certainly assume that, as for 
calves, cramming is done by forcing the food down with an in- 


s70° THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


strument, and this would be contradictory to R. Jehudah? R. 
Jehudah might say, that by feeding poultry is meant, throwing 
food to them; and the reason that one must not feed doves is 
because they do not belong to him, whereas poultry belongs to 
him and must be fed by him, as we have learned in a Boraitha, 
that one may give food to a dog but not to a pig; and the reason 
is, that a man is in duty bound to feed his dog, but a pig that 
he does not own he need not feed. Said R. Ashi: ‘* This we 
also learn from our Mishna: ‘ One must not put it before bees, 
or before doves in a dove-cot; but we may put it before geese, 
poultry, and house-pigeons.’’’ We must assume the reason of 
the Mishna to be because one is not obliged to take care of the 
bees and doves, but must take care of those which he owns. 
According to this, then, why is water only spoken of, why not 
wheat or barley ? We must say that water is easily obtainable, 
and hence there is no necessity to trouble one’s self on that 
account. 

R. Jonah taught at the door of Nassi: It is written [Prov- 
erbs xxix. 7|: ‘‘ The righteous considereth the cause of the in- 
digent.”” The righteous, synonymous with the Holy One, 
blessed be He, knoweth that a dog hath not much food, and 
hath thus ordained, that the food in his stomach remains undi- 
gested for three days, as we have learned in a Mishna: How 
long must the food (carrion) remain in the stomach, that it may 
still be considered unclean? In the stomach of a dog three days, 
but in the stomach of a bird or a fish only as long as it would 
take it to burn up if thrown into the fire. 

Said R. Hamnuna: ‘‘ From what was said above, it may be 
implied that one may throw food before a dog.’” How much? 
Said R. Mari: ‘‘ A small piece, and the dog should immediately 
be driven off.’’ This refers to a dog in the field, but within the 
city a strange dog should not be fed at all, lest he run after the 
man; however, a dog belonging to him may be fed. 

Said R. Papa: ‘‘ There is nothing poorer than a dog, and 
nothing richer than a pig (meaning that a dog is very fastidious 
about food, while a pig will eat anything).”’ 

We have learned in a Boraitha, in support of the dictum of R. 
Jehudah: What is the difference between cramming and putting 
food into the mouth of a calf? Cramming is accomplished by 
laying the calf down, forcing open its mouth, and stuffing it 
with soaked grain; and putting food into its mouth is merely 
feeding and watering it separately, while the calf is standing. 





TRACT SABBATH. Rot 


‘* Poultry may be fed and crammed,” etc. Said Abayi: ** I 
asked my master, with whose opinion was the Mishna in con- 
formity, and he told me with that of R. Jose bar Jehudah, as 
we have learned: Water must not be poured on bran, said 
Rabbi, but R. Jose bar Jehudah said that it may be done.”’ 

The rabbis taught: ‘‘ When water is poured on parched corn 
the corn must not be kneaded on Sabbath, but others say that 
it may be kneaded.’’ Who is meant by “‘ others’’? Said R. 
Hisda: ‘‘ R. Jose bar Jehudah.’’ Such is the case, however, 
only when it is done differently than on a week-day. How can 
it be done differently ? By kneading a little at a time and not 
inalump. All agree, however, that Shthitha * may be kneaded 
on the Sabbath, and that Egyptian beer may be drunk. Was it 
not said, that kneading was not allowed on Sabbath? This 
presents no difficulty. Fine corn may be kneaded, but coarse 
must not; and even then it must be kneaded differently than on 
a week-day. How can this be done? On week-days the vine- 
gar is first put in and then the Shthitha, and on Sabbath the 
latter should be put in first. 

Levi the son of R. Huna bar Hyya once found the herder of 
his father’s cattle pouring water on bran and giving it to the 
cattle. Hescolded him. Afterwards R. Huna met his son, and 
said to him: Thus said the father of thy mother in the name of 
Rabh (meaning R. Jeremiah bar Aba): “‘ It is allowed to pour 
water on bran but not to put the mixed bran into the mouth of 
the cattle (but young cattle, that cannot eat themselves, may be 
fed by hand).’’ And this may be done, providing it is done 
differently than on a week-day. How should that be done? 
The bran should only be stirred once lengthwise and once 
crosswise. It will not mix well, however, in this manner. Said 
R. Jehudah: ‘‘ Then it should be poured into another vessel.”’ 

We found in the diary of Zera: ‘‘ I asked of my Master R. 
Hyya, whether kneading was permitted on the Sabbath, and he 
said, ‘ No.’ I asked him whether transferring from one vessel 
to another was permitted, and he said it was.’’ Said R. Menas- 
seh: ‘‘ It is allowed to give one animal a measure of grain, and 
two measures for two animals, but one must not give three 
measures for two animals.’’ R. Joseph, however, said that a 
whole Kabh, or even two Kabhs, may be given for one or two or 
three animals, and Ula said that even a Kur or more may be given. 





* Shthitha is the name of a dish prepared from parched corn. 


a02 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


It was written in the diary of Levi: ‘‘I related in the pres- 
ence of my master, who was Rabbi the Holy (Jehudah Hanassi), 
that in Babylon they were kneading Shthitha on Sabbath and 
Rabbi protested against it; but no one paid attention to it, and 
he had no power to prohibit it, because R. Jose bar Jehudah 
once permitted it (as mentioned previously).”’ 

It was written in the diary of R. Jehoshua ben Levi: ‘‘ One 
who is born on the first day of the week will be a man, and not 
one thing will be in him.’’ What does that mean? That there 
will not be any one good thing in him? Did not R. Assi say 
that he was born on the first day of the week? Shall we say, 
that not one bad thing will be in him? R. Assi said: ‘‘ I and 
Dimi bar Kakusta were both born on the first day of the week, 
and, behold! I ama prince and he is a leader of robbers!”’ 
What, then, is meant by ‘‘ not one thing will be in him’ ? 
This means, that he will be either wholly bad or wholly good. 
‘““ A man who was born on the second day of the week will be 
aman of violent passion.’’ Whyso? Because on the second 
day the water was separated. ‘‘ A man born on the third day 
will be rich and lascivious.’’ Why so? Because grass was cre- 
ated on the third day. ‘‘ A man born on the fourth day will be 
wise and have a good memory.’’ Why so? Because on the 
fourth day the lights were created. ‘‘ A man born on the fifth day 
will be a charitable man.’’ Why so? Because on that day the 
fishes and fowls were created. ‘‘ A man born on the sixth day 
will be a very devout man.’’ [R. Na’hman bar Itz’hak said: ‘‘ He 
will be zealous in the fulfilment of commandments.’’] ‘‘ A man 
born on the Sabbath will also die on the Sabbath, because on 
his account the great day of Sabbath was violated.’’ Said 
Rabba bar R. Shila: ‘‘ He will, however, be called a great and 
pious man.”’ 

Said R. Hanina to the men who related what was written in 
the diary above: ‘‘ Go and tell the son of Levi, that the fortune 
of a man does not depend upon the day, but upon the hour he 
was born in. One who is born in the hour of sunrise will be a 
bright man; he will eat and drink of his own, but he will not be 
able to keep secrets and will not be successful in stealing. One 
who is born under Venus will be a rich man, but will be lascivi- 
ous, because fire is generated under Venus. One who is born 
under Mercury will be bright and wise, because that star is the 
scribe of the Sun. One who is born under the Moon will be 
sickly or troubled. He will build and demolish, will not eat and 





TRACT SABBATH. 373 


drink his own, but will keep secrets, and will be successful in 
stealing. One who is born under Saturn will have all his thoughts 
and aims come to naught; and others say, to the contrary, all 
aims against him will come to naught. One who is born under 
Jupiter will be a righteous man, and R. Na’hman bar Itz’hak 
said he will be very devout. One who is born under Mars will 
be a man who will shed blood. He will either be a surgeon or 
a robber, a butcher or a circumciser, said R. Ashi. Rabba said 
that he was born under Mars. Said Abayi to him: ‘‘ Thou, 
Master, reprovest men, and whom thou reprovest, he dieth; 
hence thou, also, sheddest blood.”’ 

It was taught: R. Hanina said: ‘‘ One who is born under 
a lucky star may be either rich or wise, and the same thing 
applies to Israelites also.’? R. Johanan said: ‘‘ An Israelite 
does not come under this fate’’; and R. Johanan says this 
in accordance with his dictum elsewhere; viz.: Whence do we 
know that the Israelites are not subject to fate? Because it is 
written [Jeremiah x. 2]: ‘“‘ Thus hath said the Lord, Do not 
habituate yourselves in the way of the nations, and at the signs 
of the heavens be ye not dismayed, although the nations should 
be dismayed at them.’’ So the nations may be dismayed at the 
signs of the heavens, but not the Israelites; and Rabh holds 
likewise, that the Israelites are not subject to fate. R. Jehudah 
said in the name of Rabh: Whence do we know that the 
Israelites are not subject to fate? Because it is written [Gen- 
esis xv. 5]: “‘ And he brought him forth abroad.’’ Abraham 
said before the Holy One, blessed be He: “‘ Creatorof the Uni- 
verse, lo, one born in my house will be my heir’’; and the Lord 
answered: ‘‘ He that shall come forth out of thy own bowels 
shall be thy heir’’ [Gen. xv. 4]. And Abraham said again: 
““ Creator of the Universe! I have consulted my horoscope, and 
have found that I am not capable of having a son’’; so the 
Lord said to him: “‘ Away with thy horoscope! An Israelite 
hath no fate!’’ 

Of Samuel it is also known, that he thought the Israelites had 
no destiny, for Samuel and Ablat were once sitting together, and 
some men went past a meadow. Ablat (who was an astrologer) 
said to Samuel, pointing to one of the men: ‘‘ That man will 
not return. A snake will bite him and he will die.’’ Said Sam- 
uel: “If he is an Israelite, he will come back.’’ While they 
were talking, the man came back; so Ablat arose and examined 
him, and he found a snake cut in two on the man’s clothes. 


374 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


Said Samuel to the man: ‘‘ What didst thou do to-day, that thou 
hast escaped death ?’’ The man answered: ‘‘ It is our custom, 
when going out with a party of men, that we all contribute our 
share of victuals, and then have our meal in common. I knew 
that one of our party had no (bread) victuals, and not wishing to 
make him ashamed, I secured the basket to gather the food; 
and when coming up to him I pretended to put in his share, but 
in reality put in mine, and thus he was not ashamed.’’ ‘‘ Then 
thou hast committed an act of charity,’’ said Samuel; and when 
he went out he preached that charity may be the cause of saving 
a man’s life, and not only from a violent death, but also from 
death which otherwise would have overtaken a man naturally. 

Of R. Agqiba it is also known, that he did not believe the Is- 
raelites to be subject to fate, for R. Aqiba had a daughter, and 
the soothsayers predicted that on the day on which she should 
enter the garden a snake would bite her and she would die. He 
was very much troubled on that account. One day his daughter 
took off her headdress in the garden, and the needle protruding 
from it stuck on the side of the fence where a snake happened 
to be, and piercing the eye of the snake, the latter was killed. 
When R. Aqiba’s daughter went back to the house the snake 
dragged after her. Asked R. Aqiba: ‘‘ What didst thou do to- 
day, to escape death ?’’ and she answered: ‘‘ At dawn a man 
came to the door begging bread. Everybody, however, was at 
the table, and no one heard him but myself. I took my own 
meal, that thou gavest me, and gave it to him.”’ Said R. Aqiba: 
‘Thou didst an act of charity, and this saved thee from death.”’ 
He then went forth and preached, that charity may be the 
cause of saving a man’s life, and not only from a violent death, 
but also from one that was to have come naturally. 

R. Na’hman bar Itz’hak is also known to discountenance the 
theory of the Israelites being subject to fate; for the mother of 
R. Na’hman was told by astrologers that her son would turn 
out to be a thief, so she would not let him go out bare-headed, 
saying: ‘‘ Always keep thy head covered, that thou mayest fear 
the Lord, and pray to Him for mercy’’; and he did not know 
why she always told him this. One day he sat underneath a 
tree studying, when his head-wear fell off, and looking up, he 
saw the tree filled with delicious dates. He was very much 
tempted to take some of the fruit, although the tree did not 
belong to him, and accordingly climbed the tree, and bit off a 
branch with his teeth. 





TRACT SABBATH. 375 


MISHNA: Pumpkins may be cut up for cattle, and carrion 
for dogs. R. Jehudah saith: ‘‘ If the carrion was not yet carrion 
(if the beast had not yet died) before the Sabbath, it must not be 
cut up; because, in that case, it is not part of what had been 
provided (for consumption on Sabbath).’’ 

GEMARA: It was taught: Ula said, the Halakha prevails 
according to R. Jehudah, and of Rabh it is also known that 
he agrees with R. Jehudah, as may be seen from his decree con- 
cerning covers of a vessel (on page 29). Levi also admits, that 
the Halakha prevails according to R. Jehudah; for when a car- 
cass was brought to him for decision as to its fitness for use, or 
unfitness, on a festival, he would not inspect it unless it had lain 
in the dirt; because, should he hold it to be fit, it would forth- 
with become carrion and not even be fit for dogs, by reason of 
its turning into carrion on the festival (and thus not having been 
provided on the day before for consumption on the festival). 

Samuel, however, said, that the Halakha prevails according 
to R. Simeon, as also does Zera, because a Mishna elsewhere, 
which teaches, that if an animal died (on Sabbath or on a festival) 
it must not be removed, was explained by Zera to refer only to 
such an animal as was designated for a sacrifice and which must 
not be made use of at all; but any ordinary carcass may be re- 
moved. R. Johanan also said, that the Halakha according to 
R. Simeon prevails. 

Is it possible that R. Johanan said this? Have we not 
learned that R. Johanan always holds Halakhas to be in accord- 
ance with the abstract decrees of the Mishna, and in another 
Mishna we have learned that the wood of a beam that had been 
broken on a festival must not be used on the festival? R. 
Johanan claims, that the Mishna above was taught in the name 
of R. Jose bar Jehudah. 

Come and hear (another objection): ‘‘It is permitted to 
commence taking from a heap of straw on a festival for use as 
fuel, but not from wood designated for another purpose.’’ This 
is also taught abstractly (and is certainly contrary to the opinion 
of R. Simeon). This above teaching refers to cedar beams in- 
tended for building purposes, and being very expensive should 
not be used as fuel, even according to R. Simeon. 

Come and hear (another objection based upon another ab- 
stract Mishna): ‘‘It is not permitted to water or to slaughter 
animals living in their wild natural state, but it is allowed as re- 
gards domestic animals.’’ (This is also contrary to R. Simeon?) 


376 THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


R. Johanan, however, found an abstract Mishna that was in 
accord with R. Simeon; viz.: That Mishna concerning bones 
and husks which may be removed from the table (page 326), and 
R. Johanan holds as R. Na’hman (did later), that all decisions 
rendered by the school of Shamai are in accordance with the 
opinion of R. Jehudah, while those rendered by the school of 
Hillel agree with those of R. Simeon. 

It is related of R. A’ha and Rabhina, that one said that all 
laws pertaining to Sabbath remain as decreed by R. Simeon, 
with the exception of one thing, that had been set aside on ac- 
count of causing disgust, namely, an old candlestick that had 
become soiled with the dripping tallow; and the other said, that 
even in this instance the Halakha prevails according to R. Sim- 
eon, but the one thing that does not remain as decreed by R. 
Simeon is the case of a candlestick which had been used on the 
same Sabbath. (Both admit, however,) that as for the theory 
of designation where expensive articles are concerned, R. Sim- 
eon accepts it in that case, and declares, that they may not be 
used on Sabbath, as we have learned in a Mishna (page 268) con- 
cerning the large wood-saw and the ploughshare, which, accord- 
ing to R. Simeon, also must not be handled, because they are 
expensive (and being used only by mechanics should not be han- 
dled by others). 

MISHNA: A man may annul vows (of his wife or daughter) * 
on the Sabbath, and consult (a sage) as to vows (relating to ob- 
jects) required for the Sabbath. Window-light may be shut out 
by blinds; a piece of stuff may be measured, and also a Mikvah 
(plunge-bath), to ascertain whether it be of legal size. It hap- 
pened in the days of R. Zadock’s father, and in the days of 
Abba Saul ben Botnith, that they closed a window with an 
earthen jar, and then tied another vessel toa pole with papyrus, 
in order to ascertain whether, in a covered vessel, there was an 
opening one span high or not. From them we learn, that (in 
certain cases) it may be permitted to close, to measure, and to 
tie on the Sabbath. 

GEMARA: The schoolmen propounded a question: Does 
the term, ‘‘ required for the Sabbath,’’ in connection with vows, 
apply to both clauses of that sentence; and if it does not, 
neither may be done on the Sabbath, whence we shall learn, 
that the time in which a man may annul the vow of his wife 





* See Numbers xxx. 2. 


TRACT SABBATH. 377 


or daughter does not expire with the day, but continues for 
twenty-four hours; because, if the vows do not relate to the 
Sabbath and neither of the above two clauses may be executed, 
the man can annul the vow at night after the Sabbath; or shall 
we say that the term, ‘‘ required for the Sabbath,’’ applies only 
to the latter clause, that of consulting as to vows, and not to 
the first clause, that of annulling the vow, which would estab- 
lish the fact that the time for annulment expires with the day 
and does not continue for twenty-four hours ? Come and hear: 
R. Zoti, one of the disciples of R. Papi, taught, that only 
such vows as relate to the Sabbath may be annulled on the Sab- 
bath; thence we may learn, that the time for annulment of 
vows does not expire for twenty-four hours? Said R. Ashi: 
‘““ Did we not learn (in a Mishna of Tract Nedarim), that the 
time for annulment of vows continues for one day only ?”’ Con- 
cerning this, there is a difference of opinion among the Tanaim 
(as will be explained in Tract Nedarim). 

‘“ And consult as to vows,’’ etc. The schoolmen propounded 
a question: ‘* Does this mean to say, that the man had not time 
before Sabbath (z.2., that he made the vow on the Sabbath), or 
even if he had time before Sabbath, but wishes to be released 
from his vow at once ?’’ Come and hear: The rabbis complied 
with the wish of R. Zutra the son of R. Zera, and released him 
from his vow on a Sabbath, although he had plenty of time to 
have this done before Sabbath.* 

R. Jose wished to state, that, as to vows, a man may consult 
on Sabbath only a man who is a competent authority (Cha- 
cham), but he must not consult three ordinary men, because 
that would appear asa judgment on business affairs. Abayi said ° 
to him: “‘ Whereas three men may be consulted standing, or 
even if they are of kin, or even at night, it will not appear as 
an ordinary judgment.’’ 

When a man wishes to annul the vow of his wife on the Sab- 
bath, he must not say to her, as on a week-day: ‘‘ Thy vow is 
annulled,’’ or, “‘I release thee from thy vow’’; but merely: 
‘‘Go and eat,’’ or, ‘‘ Go and drink,”’ and this releases her from 
her vow. Said R. Johanan: ‘‘ The man must, however, think 
at the time that he is annulling her vow.’’ 

We have learned in a Boraitha: The school of Shamai said: 





* All this is originally part of Tract Nedarim. We have in consequence omitted 
it, but a part of that passage being necessary for the elucidation of the above text, 
we have incorporated it in the Tract Sabbath. 


380 PRAYER AT THE CONCLUSION OF A TRACT. 


Make sweet, O Lord, our God, the words of Thy Law in our 
mouths, and in the mouth of Thy people the house of Israel; 
and may we, our children, and the children of Thy people the 
house of Israel, all know Thy Name and learn Thy Law. 

Wiser than my enemy doth Thy commandment make me; 
for it is perpetually with me. Let my heart be entire in the 
statutes, that I may not be put to shame. Never will I forget 
Thy precepts; for with them Thou hast kept me alive. Blessed 
art Thou, O Lord! teach me Thy statutes. Amen, Amen, 
Amen. Selah, Vaed (Forever)! 

We thank Thee, O Lord, our God and God of our fathers, 
that thou hast cast our lot amongst those that dwell in the 
houses of leaning, and not amongst the occupants of the 
markets. For we arise early, and they arise early. We arise 
to the words of Law, and they arise to words of vanity. We 
strive, and they strive. We strive and receive our reward, while 
they strive in vain. We mun, and they run. We run towards 
everlasting life. and they run towards death, as it is written: 
*‘But Thou, O God! Thou wilt bring them down into the pit 
of destruction: let not the men of blood and deceit live out half 
their days; but I will indeed trust in Thee!" 

May it be Thy will, O Lord my God, that as Thou hast as- 
sisted me in the conclusion of Tract Sabbath, so mayest Thou 
assist me in the commencement of other tracts and books of 
Law, and in their conclusion: that I may live to learn and 
teach, to observe and to do and to keep all the words of the 
teachings of Thy Law with affection. And may the merits of 
all the Tanaim and Amoraim and other scholars uphold me and 
my children, in order that the Law may not escape from my 
mouth, from the mouths of my children and children’s children 
forever, and may it be verified in me (all that is written):“* When 
thou walkest, it shall lead thee; when thou liest down, it shall 
watch over thee: and when thou art awake, it shall converse with 
thee. For through me shall thy days be multiplied and the 
years of thy life shall be increased unto thee. Length of days 
are in her right hand, in her left are richesand honor. The Lord 
shall give strength unto His people; the Lord will bless His 
people with peace.” 


[Revised July 22, 1896, and found all correct.—Isaac M. WISE] 











APPENDIX 


Fast 22 wf Soimme 1 wo: fae Tax comame 2 Ween com 
THSUSINE Wilt te state | ane hese are some of fee spe 
a0wis TIS om fe ane oF aaa bp Diab pe 
GaqTor.” aur Sonos. ” Shey antercer spe] tpl on 
tat car” ee ee Spe Freee tne Wissore Zai= 20 =numeerat= a 
The Dat TMSMIDne. uo esewneT tres =r) pues 
Ct Gemere. eweve: conic upon fier Sema and 
SS! Tue 02 saat a icone meme “Ks = ea 
DO. course. ne Ew oom witner te apoio op nome 
a0C VeTiSD Dams : pir the comcussivr & ter fe = sen ee 
WaCIDIS are Tunes wouct we steal snes fore on 

a0 auoies secur ow te Gem © = reer te frre 
DUNDES ats Do wine aur 2 lie number vf gor of vl wer taken 
IW mt Ser ac Mores it afore te sap mw open in 
ar + CRED pace uml Teer neiipemtime concomine te tpi 
Tum were Teale concider 

Aamenge thes: smug: Ser are. power wir Tw 13 
cars: concsmime Sapp. te tes peme fespeser taro 
| Tamut m cher prope Gepemmens anc mereir memmner 
2 TSTUIUTS Stace gio tet ser. per ter ar noe one 
TiStai=t I Tpuar ori 2c 2 sequen oo ime oO ome 
Tam. = Sno we. mm coessstencr wrt or meiner oO cere 
TUI—vi.. Tl Daa Svein mf pee Geen eae 
omcr=r aaah llc 
iestction. which reasons as ches be fire Gctaers af wor ab 
STS! ANC Io Se mes Gar ume 

dr Ge gas Shape of Ins Tac nowew=. mention = apa 
Tats 0 She siomtesr tepuiior: ant f= geet fet fer 
TMisaS0T= Wet Tat “ heapmer Gul” whit ssewner m tre Ge 
SGaCISC Wet 2 Praws rT comseqeenc fo Ieee = fe Gar oF 
wick Sh Poitier caE we mate | = fee ce sttemer 
that nave ompelier we 2 fe es momen op snipedr fesse oe 

Tm 6L£— == 





380 PRAYER AT THE CONCLUSION OF A TRACT. 


Make sweet, O Lord, our God, the words of Thy Law in our 
mouths, and in the mouth of Thy people the house of Israel; 
and may we, our children, and the children of Thy people the 
house of Israel, all know Thy Name and learn Thy Law. 

Wiser than my enemy doth Thy commandment make me; 
for it is perpetually with me. Let my heart be entire in the 
statutes, that I may not be put to shame. Never will I forget 
Thy precepts; for with them Thou hast kept me alive. Blessed 
art Thou, O Lord! teach me Thy statutes. Amen, Amen, 
Amen. Selah, Vaed (Forever)! 

We thank Thee, O Lord, our God and God of our fathers, 
that thou hast cast our lot amongst those that dwell in the 
houses of learning, and not amongst the occupants of the 
markets. For we arise early, and they arise early. We arise 
to the words of Law, and they arise to words of vanity. We 
strive, and they strive. We strive and receive our reward, while 
they strive in vain. We run, and they run. We run towards 
everlasting life, and they run towards death, as it is written: 
‘‘But Thou, O God! Thou wilt bring them down into the pit 
of destruction; let not the men of blood and deceit live out half 
their days; but I will indeed trust in Thee!”’ 

May it be Thy will, O Lord my God, that as Thou hast as- 
sisted me in the conclusion of Tract Sabbath, so mayest Thou 
assist me in the commencement of other tracts and books of 
Law, and in their conclusion: that I may live to learn and 
teach, to observe and to do and to keep all the words of the 
teachings of Thy Law with affection. And may the merits of 
all the Tanaim and Amoraim and other scholars uphold me and 
my children, in order that the Law may not escape from my 
mouth, from the mouths of my children and children’s children 
forever, and may it be verified in me (all that is written) : ‘* When 
thou walkest, it shall lead thee; when thou liest down, it shall 
watch over thee; and when thou art awake, it shall converse with 
thee. For through me shall thy days be multiplied and the 
years of thy life shall be increased unto thee. Length of days 
are in her right hand, in her left are richesand honor. The Lord 
shall give strength unto His people; the Lord will bless His 
people with peace.”’ 





[Revised July 22, 1896, and found all correct.—ISAAC M. WISE. ] 


APPENDIX. 


PAGE 24 of Volume I. of this tract contains a Mishna com- 
mencing with the statement: ‘‘ And these are some of the regu- 
lations enacted in the attic of Hananiah ben Hizkyah ben 
Garon,’’ and concluding, “‘ they enforced eighteen regulations on 
that day.”’ At the same time, the Mishna fails to enumerate in 
the place mentioned, or elsewhere, these eighteen regulations. 
The Gemara, however, conjectures upon their character and 
cites them in a scattered and incoherent manner. As a matter 
of course, this is not done without the adduction of numerous 
and varied opinions; but the conclusion is, that the eighteen reg- 
ulations are those which we shall enumerate farther on. 

In another section of the Gemara it is related, that three 
hundred jars of wine and a like number of jars of oil were taken 
up into that attic in order to afford the sages no opportunity to 
leave their places until their deliberations concerning the regula- 
tions were finally concluded. 

Among these .regulations there are, however, only two or 
three concerning Sabbath, the rest being dispersed throughout 
the Talmud in their proper departments and merely mentioned 
as regulations enacted during that session, but they are not enu- 
merated in regular order either of sequence or time of enact- 
ment. Hence we, in consistency with our method of transla- 
tion—viz., to place everything in its proper department—have 
omitted in this tract the enumeration of these regulations, to- 
gether with the diverse opinions concerning the reasons for their 
institution, which reasons as cited by the Gemara are very ab- 
struse and for the most part untenable. 

In the last chapter of this tract, however, mention is again 
made of the eighteen regulations, and it is declared, that their 
measure was made “‘ heaping full,’’ while elsewhere in the Ge- 
mara the assertion is made, that the day on which they were 
enacted was as grave in its consequences for Israel as the day on 
which the golden calf was made. It is these two statements 
that have impelled us at the last moment to embody these eigh- 

VOL, II.—13 381 


382 APPENDIX. 


teen regulations in an appendix at the end of this volume, and 
state as best we can, after careful study and consideration of the 
subject, the most potent reasons for their enactment. 

With this purpose in view, we shall divide the eighteen regu- 
lations into five classes, as follows: Those pertaining to Theru- 
mah (heave-offerings), Tumah (uncleanness), Chithon (mingling 
with other nations), Mikvah (legal bath), and Sabbath. 

Therumah is rendered useless when brought into contact 
with any one of the following ten subjects: First: With a man 
who eats a thing that had been contaminated by a parent of 
uncleanness * and had thus become unclean in the first degree. 
Second: With a man who had eaten a thing unclean in the sec- 
ond degree (¢.e., had been touched by a thing unclean in the 
first degree). Third: With a man who had drunk unclean bev- 
erages. Fourth: With a man who had bathed his head and the 
larger portion of his body in water that had been pumped up 
(drawn or scooped), and not in a legal bath. Fifth: With a 
clean person (z.e., one who had already taken a legal bath, but 
was subsequently drenched with three lugs of drawn water). 
Sixth: With the sacred scrolls of the Holy Writ, either in part 
or in its entire form.t Seventh: With hands of which one was 
not quite certain that they had been kept clean the whole day. 
Eighth: With one who had taken a legal bath, if the Therumah 
was touched before sunset. Ninth: With eatables and utensils 
which had become unclean through beverages (as will be ex- 
plained in Tract Yodaim). When brought in contact with any 
one of these nine subjects, Therumah is rendered useless. 
Tenth: The crop raised from Therumah (seed) is of the same 
character as the seed; if the latter was clean when planted the 
crop is clean, but if the seed was unclean the crop is the same. 
Nevertheless, it is still considered Therumah, and subject to the 





* By a ‘‘ parent of uncleanness” is meant any object that had come in direct con- 
tact with a corpse. See explanation in Tract Shekalim. 

+ Why contact with the Holy Writ should render Therumah unclean can in our 
opinion be explained only as follows : When the priests came to demand their share 
of the Therumah, it is highly probable that they did this with a correspondingly 
impressive ceremony and read the part of the Law referring to the Therumah before 
the donors. If such was really the case, they no doubt carried the scrolls with them 
wherever they went, and in consequence the regulation was enacted which rendered 
the Therumah unclean when brought into contact with the scrolls or book contain- 
ing the Holy Writ. Our basis for this assertion is the ordinance to be found in Tract 
Yodaim, which proclaims that the scrolls or books containing the Holy Writ render 
hands unclean when coming in contact with them, and doubtless the hands of the 
priests, which were afterwards to handle Therumah, are meant. 


APPENDIX. 383 


laws of Therumah. Thus we have ten regulations concerning 
Therumah. 

Concerning uncleanness, there were four regulations enacted: 
First: All movable things bring uncleanness on a man by means 
of a tent, not larger even than a span, covering a corpse, even if 
the space between the corpse and the tent was but an awl’s width. 
(For explanation, see Tract Ahaloth.) Second: The daughters 
of the Samaritans are considered unclean (as women suffering 
from their menstruation) from the day of their birth. Third: A 
child of a heathen is considered unclean, because it is considered 
as one afflicted with venereal disease. Fourth: One who presses 
grapes or olives renders the vessels used to receive the must or 
the oil susceptible to uncleanness. (This is explained in detail 
in Tract Kelim.) 

Concerning Chithon, but one regulation was enacted, cover- 
ing four subjects: It was prohibited to partake of the bread, oil, 
or wine of other nations in order to prevent intermarriage with 
their daughters. 

Concerning Mikvah, one regulation only was enacted; viz. : 
If the water running out of a rain-gutter flow directly into a 
Mikvah, the Mikvah is not invalidated; but if the water was 
intercepted by a vessel from which it flowed into the Mikvah, 
the latter becomes invalid; or even if three lugs of drawn water 
were poured into the Mikvah, they render it useless (see Tract 
Mikvaoth). 

Concerning Sabbath, two regulations were enacted: First: 
One shall not search for vermin or read before lamplight (on 
Friday night).* Second: One who was overtaken by dusk on 
the Sabbath eve while on the road must give his purse to a 
Gentile. 

The learned reader who is not familiar with the intricate 
teachings of the Talmud, and even the student of the Talmud 
who has delved in its labyrinths of lore for the sake of probing 
into the ordinances and discussions contained in its volumes, will 
be quite amazed at the seeming unimportance and triviality of 
the above regulations, unless thoroughly comprehensive of the 
spirit of the Talmud and the object of the sages in their day. 

At the time when these regulations were enacted and enforced, 








* There are differences of opinion in the Gemara as to the division of the regu- 
lations. Some hold that they should be grouped, while others would count them 
separately. The matter is of no importance, however, and hence we have grouped 
them in conformity with the number stated by the Mishna, 


384 APPENDIX. 


there appeared no reasonable grounds for their enactment; and 
even the reasons advanced by the Gemara itself in a faltering, 
groping manner are in many instances quite absurd. Entirely 
contrary to their usual custom, the sages themselves did not base 
these regulations upon any inference, analogy, passage, or ordi- 
nance contained in the Holy Writ, a very remarkable occurrence 
indeed. Furthermore, at a casual glance, the student will not 
find in any one of the regulations a motive based even on com- 
mon sense. 

Strange to say, it has also occurred that our excellent He- 
brew poet L. Gordon, in a poem pungent with deepest sarcasm 
and pointed ridicule, commented upon these eighteen regulations, 
saying, amongst other things: ‘* Not for political purposes, not 
for the improvement of the government moral or material, did 
our sages seclude themselves in their attic, but merely to pro- 
hibit matters as trivial and absurd as that of reading by lamp- 
light on the eve of Sabbath,”’ etc. 

Had the poet, however, devoted deeper study and closer 
research to the environments, influences, and conditions prevail- 
ing in the days of these sages, he would readily have discovered 
that the greatest political import, the gravest questions of gov- 
ernment both moral and material, actuated the institution of 
these apparently ridiculous regulations, all culminating and 
leaning towards the accomplishment of one great object; viz., 
that of keeping the small nation of Jews intact and guarding it 
from the dangers menacing it not only from the exterior world 
but from its interior vampires and oppressors. 

It should not be overlooked that when the deliberations 
anent these regulations were about to be commenced, the hall 
used for the session was closely guarded by men armed with 
keen-edged swords, under instructions to permit all who desired 
to enter to do so, but to instantly thrust their swords through 
any one endeavoring to retreat; and what was the discussion 
commenced with? Merely an argument determining the un- 
cleanness of certain vessels, which the priests could not approach 
(as will be seen farther on). Still, Hillel the Prince, the mighty 
sage, sat before his old-time opponent Shamai, and listened to 
him with the most profound attention and reverence, just as if 
he were the least among his disciples. 

This historical fact was but another item in inducing us to 
digress from our established method and insert the eighteen reg- 
ulations, together with the explanation of their importance; for 


APPENDIX. 385 


had we not done so, it is highly probable that we would have 
called down the criticism of many scholars who could not over- 
look such an omission. 

At no period in the history of the Jewish race do we find so 
much deliberation, profundity of thought, and depth of calcula- 
tion in evidence as at the time when the sages secluded them- 
selves in the attic of Hananiah ben Hizkyah. There it was, that 
means were devised to keep the nation of the Jews—whose 
friends were always in the minority, and whose enemies, not only 
abroad but in their very midst, were as the sands of the sea— 
intact and proof against annihilation. 

All of the literature current among the masses was carefully 
scanned and revised. The ethical code was reénforced, and 
wherever necessary purged of objectionable matter. This cen- 
sorship was carried to such an extent that it was attempted to 
reject even Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, and Ezekiel as undesirable; 
and it was only with great difficulty that those in authority 
were prevailed upon to let them remain. The records of ances- 
try, however, tracing the descent of every existing family, which 
were the pride of the people, as well as all works treating of 
medical science and the art of healing, were buried and hidden 
beyond recovery. Even the Apocrypha were eliminated from 
the Holy Writ and declared ordinary literature, and many other 
writings unknown to us even in this day, as well as all secret 
scripts, were thoroughly revised and made adaptable to the ex- 
isting times and circumstances. All this, and more, was done 
with the sole purpose of preserving the integrity of the Jewish 
race and preventing its absorption by other nations. 

Thus it was commenced to accustom the Jew to study and 
thought, and as an outcome of this period of virtual renaissance 
the eighteen regulations were enacted with two prime objects in 
view, as follows: 

Firstly, to diminish as far as possible the constantly growing 
domination of the priests; for the high-priestdom, with which 
the supreme governing power was identical, could be purchased 
with money, and more especially because the number of priests 
in the last century prior to the destruction of the Temple had 
grown to such a vast proportion that those in actual service 
alone numbered little short of twenty thousand. Apart from 
these were those who did not perform actual service, while enjoy- 
ing all the immunities and privileges of their rank as priests, and 
they were: Priests who had the least blemish on their bodies; 


386 APPENDIX. 


those whose descent or even whose wives’ descent left the least 
room for doubt; and the wealthy and influential priests who 
would not perform the menial duties of priests, but left them to 
the less fortunate and more insignificant of their number. (See 
‘‘ Die Priester und der Cultus,’’ by Dr. Adolf Biichler, Vienna, 
1895.) 

Of such men was the party in power composed, and they 
made but too free a use of their authority. As a matter of 
course, restrictions had to be provided wherewith to relieve the 
oppressed. 

Secondly, the object was to prevent the amalgamation of the 
Jews with the other nations with whom they were in daily and 
constant association. 

Now for the manner in which the first object was about to be 
accomplished. 

Quite some time previous to the time of which we are treat- 
ing, the laymen had, after a hard struggle, succeeded in divest- 
ing the priests of their spiritual power (¢.e., the right to decide 
all questions pertaining to religious and ritual matters, whether 
a thing was allowed or forbidden, clean or unclean, etc.), by 
proving that the priests were far too ignorant to be competent 
judges.* This struggle had been going on since the days of 
Nehemiah, for prior to his day the priests were the sole judges 
both in spiritual and in temporal affairs, claiming their privilege 
in accordance with the passage [Deut. xxi. 5]: ‘‘ And after 
their (the priests’) decision shall be done at every controversy 
and every injury.’’ Having wrested the spiritual power from 
the priests, the supervision of all religious and ritual matters 
was conferred upon the Pharisees, who henceforth were the rec- 
ognized authorities in the interpretation of the Law. This ac- 
complished, the next step decided upon was to limit as much as 
possible the temporal power of the priests: it was decided not 
to do this in too precipitate a manner, but cautiously and unos- 
tentatiously, using as a medium regulations seemingly unimpor- 
tant, but the hidden motives of which were far-reaching in their 
consequences. 

The time of Hananiah ben Hizkyah was the more opportune 
for such a coup d'état, as by that time the Pharisees had obtained 
the upper hand of all other existing sects, notably the Saddu- 
cees. 





* See Haggai ii. 13 and 14. 


APPENDIX. 387 


Now, inasmuch as it proved to be an easy matter to enact 
laws by means of which the Jews would be prevented from 
amalgamating with other nations, such as the prohibition of par- 
taking the bread, oil, etc., of Gentiles, the proclamation declar- 
ing the children of heathens unclean (to prevent the children of 
Jews from joining them at play and thus forming attachments), 
and the women of the Samaritans, the deadliest enemies of the 
Jews, unclean (in order to prevent their employment as servants 
by Jews), it was but little more difficult to devise laws which 
would forever break the oppressive domination of the priests 
in a mild but nevertheless effective manner. 

The first step necessary for the accomplishment of this desir- 
able end was to completely destroy the system of espionage 
practised by the priests, and which was carried on to such an 
extent that spies were constantly prying into actions and even 
utterances in the houses of the laymen. This was, however, by 
no means an easy task, from the very fact that the priests were 
virtual shareholders in all the possessions of the laymen. One 
fiftieth of all grain raised by the peasants was their share as 
Therumah; one tenth of such grain comprised the tithe, and 
one tenth of the tithe belonged to the priests individually; the 
first of the dough, the first of shorn wool, the parts of slaugh- 
tered cattle, the firstlings of cattle, the firstfruits of trees and 
produce, all belonged to the priests; and it was but natural 
that they were to be found in the houses of the laymen at all 
times, whither they would come not to humbly ask for their 
donations, but to demand it as the rightful possessors and share- 
holders. Nor were they at all backward about taking a hand in 
the management of all other affairs of the layman, under the 
plea of guarding their own interests; and thus at times willingly, 
sometimes unwillingly, they were the spies of the higher author- 
ities of the government. 

The question then arose how to find a place where the delib- 
erations for the suppression of this constantly growing evil could 
be held without the presence of the spying priests; and to meet 
the exigencies of the case, an old decree that had been promul- 
gated in the early days of the existence of the Temple was again 
called into being and made effective. The decree was the one 
enacted in the time of Jose ben Joezer Ish Izreda and Jose ben 
Johanan the Jerusalemite, and read: ‘* All the lands outside of 
Judzea are unclean ”’ (z.e., all eatables and beverages containing 
any degree of sanctity whatever are rendered unclean by coming 


388 APPENDIX. 


in contact with the soil of those lands outside of Judza, but 
aside from such eatables and beverages nothing was rendered 
unclean). Now, the only eatables and beverages containing any 
sanctity whatever, which could be found outside of Jerusalem, 
where the sacrifices and other sanctified articles were brought, 
were the gifts and the Therumah set aside for the priests. Thus 
we see that the declaration of uncleanness, ostensibly directed 
against all eatables containing any degree of sanctity, was in 
reality directed against the Therumah of the priests, while the 
priests themselves were flattered by the elevation of the Theru- 
mah to the degree of highest sanctity, and its object will be 
apparent from the following argument: 

The Therumah is invested with sanctity only when it is sep- 
arated from the bulk, but while still a part of the entire crop it 
is regarded as ordinary grain. If the Therumah were separated 
from the bulk in any land outside of Judza, the moment it 
comes in contact with the soil it becomes unclean and unfit for 
use. This fact made it necessary to separate the Therumah in 
Judza. The transportation of the entire crop to Judza for such 
a purpose involving too much labor and expense, part of the 
crop was set aside in the field, and from that part a sufficient 
quantity was separated and sent to the holy land. There the 
quantity of the Therumah (which according to biblical ordinance 
could have been only one grain, but according to established 
custom amounted to one fiftieth of the entire crop) was sepa- 
rated from the quantity sent. The consequence of this mode of 
procedure was, that the presence of the priest at the place where 
the crop was harvested was no longer required, as he could not 
demand his share outside of Judza. Thus it was rendered pos- 
sible to hold a convocation where the presence of the priest was 
no longer to be dreaded.* It seems that up to the time of 
Hananiah ben Hizkyah this decree had been evidently disre- 
garded or not sufficiently effective,t for we see that eighty years 





* At the same time that the decree declaring all lands outside of Judea unclean 
was promulgated, glassware was also declared unclean, while prior to that time glass- 
ware had not even been susceptible to uncleanness. We cannot state positively 
whether this was done in order to render the first decree less conspicuous or to pre- 
vent the priests from being present at the places where glassware was manufactured, 
which were all outside of Judza. Be that as it may, it can safely be assumed that 
the measure was another political ruse. 

+ It was not sufficiently effective because, in order to circumvene the decree, the 
priests brought chests to the lands outside of Judcea in which to store the bulk of the 
grain before separating the Therumah, and thus prevent the contact of the latter with 
the soil. ‘This we presume from a hint of Rashi to that effect. 


APPENDIX. 389 


prior to the destruction of the Temple it was again promulgated, 
and this time reénforced with the declaration that even the at- 
mosphere of all lands outside of Judaa was unclean and all arti- 
cles containing any degree of sanctity were rendered unclean by 
contact with such atmosphere. 

The eighty years before the destruction of the Temple corre- 
spond with the time of Hananiah ben Hizkyah, and it is quite 
possible that the sages called by the Talmud “‘ the sages of the 
eighty years ’’ were the same that took part in the deliberations 
in the attic, and that, in order to secure at least one place where 
they could hold a convocation undisturbed by the priests, they 
declared even the atmosphere of the lands outside of Judea 
unclean. 

The Talmud relates, also, that in the city of Usha the decree 
was reénforced for the third time with the declaration that all 
articles rendered unclean by the atmosphere of such lands were 
not only to be rendered useless, but were to be immediately 
burned, as a precaution lest a priest might accidentally make use 
of them. , 

Still, the decree was not as effective as it should have been, as 
long as the priest could come and announce that he would use 
his share of the Therumah for seed or dispose of it as seed, and 
to meet this exigency the sages of the attic first of all decreed 
that the crops raised from clean or unclean Therumah, used as 
seed, were clean or unclean respectively. 

Again, means had to be devised to rid the laymen residing 
in Judza proper from the obnoxious presence of the priests at 
all times; for at harvest-time, or when the grain was brought 
from the lands outside of Judza, the ever-watchful priest was 
on hand. To this end the subsequent regulations concerning 
Therumah were enacted and gradually reénforced. Thus at first 
a man who had eaten a thing unclean in the first degree rendered 
Therumah useless; then a man who had eaten a thing of the 
second degree of uncleanness, until finally even a sacred scroll, 
or even a hand that had come in contact with a sacred scroll, 
and last of all a hand that was not known to be positively clean, 
rendered Therumah useless. All this was done with the sole 
object of keeping the priests out of the houses of the laymen, 
and rather bring the Therumah to them than have them come 
to demand it. Should they come in spite of this, it was not 
difficult to find a pretext for calling the Therumah unclean. In 
order, however, not to make the purpose of these regulations 


390 APPENDIX. 


too apparent, and thus give offence to the priests, other regula- 
tions were enacted in conjunction with these, which, while of no 
value whatever in themselves, acted as screens for the actual 
intentions. 

It is now not difficult to explain the historical sensation caused 
by the deference shown by Hillel to Shamai at the commence- 
ment of these deliberations, and the reasons which prompted the 
posting of an armed guard at the entrance of the hall. Hillel, 
in his capacity as a prince of Israel, was somewhat too timid to 
proceed against the priests in too harsh a manner; but the masses 
were so much incensed against their oppressors, and so deeply 
conscious of their grievances, that he could not stem the popular 
tide against them. In this emergency it was Shamai, under ordi- 
nary circumstances of lesser consequence than Hillel, that proved 
to be the champion of the popular cause; and in order to insure 
for him a telling majority when the question came up for a final 
vote, the doors of the hall were guarded so that none could leave, 
while all were allowed to enter. Seeing the patriotism and popu- 
larity of Shamai, the prince could not help bowing to popular 
sentiment and showing respect to the favorite of the hour. 

It would require a volume of many, many pages to demon- 
strate how each one of the regulations instituted was directed 
against the priests, how deeply it injured them, and in what 
measure it curtailed their previous unlimited sphere of action; 
also, especially, how the dispute between Hillel and Shamai 
concerning the susceptibility to uncleanness of vessels used at 
grape and olive pressing concerned the priests. Even then, a 
person not thoroughly imbued with the spirit of those times 
could scarcely understand it; but we would request that the 
eighteen regulations be again carefully perused, and it will read- 
ily be observed by even the casual reader, from the hints given, 
that the ten ordinances* relating to Therumah were directed 
entirely against the priests, and the four concerning uncleanness 
were in part against the priests and in part against mingling with 
other nations; as for the regulation against mingling, that goes 
without saying, while the regulations concerning the Mikvah and 
Sabbath were but incidental and trivial matters intended as a 
screen for the grave importance of those mentioned. 





* We have not enumerated the ordinances in their regular order of sequence as 
to the time, for they are scattered in the Talmud without any order, but arranged 
them more in accordance with their importance and severity, according to the com- 
mentary of Rashi. 


ef Ras hg Fl a 


CAVEN LIBRARY! 


KNOX COLLEGE 
TORONTO 





























{ 
‘ 











4 








D Pa BOG Ke 
POeOe IAAL TERETE LIAAG ISTE EDEEL EEA GEE ETEED EAE EA SIS IE. 
Kee Ane : 








Cues x 
VEN NUTS 
HSN vey. 








OOK: 
epee 











SMS YS 
eS. 


Vvv: 
Oy 















ti 





ve 



















































































































































































































‘ EASE ALAA AAAM AA te tet te tet te tate Both ted * VEIES 
OE y Aa, ¢ 
LRERER CEE EERE LEELA ELD EO aXe ee Woy bs 
OS Vererery 
(KASAM AKRAAA AA td CAA. LAR AR AS 
fs EEE IEEE LIES EER L GS Opiate oe 
ARE EAEEAERERER ERE ERAEEA BAe? _ - 
AAEM RAS AREAL A RAD ER AD eR A DIA? SOS 
CLA BK L AKA R AN ARR RD Ae tae AAR AA aN 
PREE LILLIE AEE REESE RIE RAL CAAA AAA oO 
Ap DADA EBA ER EARRE ABAD +e SAA Aa aA 
VELIIELEPA ALY DE ENER SER ERLE TS SD, PAK RR 
KA DSAAALAARD RAD REEFS ere SA DAAAA? 
KER EL RARE ALAA SAR EER S LED AE ASO Meee SET OVEN ENO ES 
ey AIRES SEAR RAD Seow SEVP ECE POCO Sey 
oe a oy > Mea oy NS, AA AAA AS A RAR! 
CORO ees yee 
RA AAA AAS RAR ARA AAO AR 
CA AAD AAD SAAN RA ARON A 
BANARAS CAS AR AAA Ae Ae 
AAA AAA AAS. 
SIEM PONE EO EON : 
REAR AAKAKAR RES ARR A AAD ak OEE 
SO rotates POO 
x +t % SS eA) ve 
OS % Seyi 
AAA 
is CARASA + , 
SAEED 
CAAAA Bd 77 
Ke +. eoeey rs a 
ae (SLES CDEEEL + ye 
SARLAREARARE LEE APERAARABE eon 
CASE ER ELLER AE RS OEY S we 
Ae ELIA ER AER AR A Sy 
CA y ne ey YE eV ECL EY 





*, 
ae 
« 
4 














« 
las 
Sot 


“4 
25 
$05 

















*, 
+. 






































2 
oS 
Shy 
te 





$2 
*. 


BS 


~. 
<, 
*, 























LAA 





) ee 


‘2 


= 















a Yer ‘ 
SN 























oe 
ky See ey 

a eee ere 
eNO LAA ows 
“x Sn Sa * SS 












































































































































hana CRAAS A Ft Ne Se - ‘ 
ay = LRAT LK RC A A A oA 





