







































































© 
~~ 


























ey 
(vey F 
LISTS SLES 
Te Ie 
LAITS "FS 






















































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































renee 
iA 
As 
S22 
> 
‘ *59% 
% >, 
A 
. revere. 
4 oe 
Y. 
* 
A AA, a 4 
* Os nS ; r s 
vA. the 9 See es 
An rs 
oer ihe Mey ESE 
ee oD Ao A ELLESELLL SL 
‘ = ye vers or 
a oy Se 
Sai eae a 
ee eS peu aee ee yy) 7 
nar) ey BASSAS , MW 
oak Sat eee oy rere ‘ 
ROA ower ewer ee eee os 628) ie 
BRN A Oh ORR ne ex oY , 
. SAPP ASO SALTS . e « TPIS, 
ae, eR eye On ne he FES 3 iy 
he xD vo eae SALLE 
ASN NR ST % Sy he Mike 
Mx ‘ ms Ae tA2 . CER E f 
OES ODOM eee - ASABE oes 5 NG mp 
Ss se “ik sao na NS ,, Oe 
4 Ae, a, 
“a A a Ae nN 
Leee %, Q Oto 
Se RR ON . ¥ 
* : Ao) * “, We (7 ¥ MF) oe 
was QO cy i ae wo + A ae. bbb tee 4 of ae 
eae Bae one Ses “ onto PT. + ake ae see oe POLLS > 
s ote Y Se etc, ey Se y) Yo OREO EERO E LE a he ReKX "SEL, PREIS ‘t3 
“ ey Oi ce 4 hoki oe’, PELL ALS A A oN SS OE eE 
toe Oona * 28, ae is AES, Lh eee ee SLEISL IAL SS 
“ Roem patio nena GIRO RATED 
~ 7 a * * : REPRE : 
: Seaton erie apr ao Ce OSE 
7% i ae “s v7) Neary yee Py eiitaes 
mae Sone Rane 
COOPERS RS ‘ yy, 7 x iat Peery yt ees vy : Jee 
eee ee ? Abaco Vreeuves Peres CARS PALS See ev tty) he 
a ry ‘ LEO SLIT NO a x Pe os ELA RAPP 
: : , eh aks te waar LAEDAE EAS BLLLSIS LES 
% , SOIC ON TCO TNS Peer ys IIIS Seed 
Pee ; y x Rea REA me SERIAL STIS IR ITII SS 
Vey ~ Saha YY Seales rey ete ue Pibehad hea 
OA, ae Lee rye ae Ais 
ry, CONS 


EEE Awd 8 
BELILEELS Pe 


<e 
vee 


° 
> 
- 
7, 

























ek ! ett COG eee) 
DOPE OO. aAS, 
a ee AFAR AA ANS, roe yw xe 
recy Ve ee A RRA aA eet 
+A ee Os eee WSS AS, BA, DASA £28, Y 
Ve BOER RR OPS. Voces ALA, 
ERR SASS AND + AA. / a> ha A SEA AA BAA Ae be eS, 
he b4AAD AA DD, AAAS, OSES LE, AAAS, DAP ARRAS SAS AAAS 
ox ROE ee BY NN Le Tr pAAA DALAL AAA RAMA AS, 
Ha Seo PSO NIC? Mw Veen AS hobs SS ae prey KKK AAA RA 
COO. Rca aK Riot ENS * < ELE RA ER, 
RAO eR RR RO ene EI a, / 
OOo eee OE ee oe, 
etic : NE AA AAS ABAD, ee 
\ ee NE AR RARA LASS SASS, Let ey oye 
NEO AA AAS ASA OA, SABA, 
Ae ee I OT Lae RRS ; 
LA GD DADA SAM, Yewery 04 Rye 
“Ox. Rye 


> 
* 

i 
, 


hey ey Se oO 





pent, 
‘ ray 
St Pattee eS RON 
at 
ie 
aes 
Pee a 





Otay 








ESTERS NRT rs an Mreyeee ese 
ee pc ae 3 ) 2 $ AMARA, SERA ASS, oa veem VA, sine yore 
swe eee eee Cee AN a, 








Ory 
EP, 
s 

OTe ee Se 

MERLE! 





4 
, 
Ad hhh DPD © 
Soe 











 CAVEN LIBRARY, 


KNOX COLLEGE 
TORONTO 


Natt) 
6 Be 
Nea 











Dead 








“LIBRARY 

(raur Casati 7 roc 

KNOX COLLEGE 
TORONTO 


THE 
HISTORY OF THE TALMUD 


From the Time of Its Formation, about 
200 B. C., up to the Present Time 


DIVIDED INTO TWO VOLUMES 


VOLUME I.—ITS DEVELOPMENT AND THE PERSECUTIONS SINCE ITS 
BIRTH UP TO DATE, INCLUDING ALL RELIGIOUS DISPUTES 
AND BRIEF BIOGRAPHIES OF THE SEPARATED SECTS 


VOLUME II. — THE HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION TO THE 
NEW EDITION: ETHICS, METHOD, WITH ILLUSTRATIONS 
CRITICISM, ETC. 


BY 


MICHAEL L. RODKINSON 


»»¥ 


Volume I, (XIX.) 


‘NEW YORK 
NEW TALMUD PUBLISHING COMPANY 
1117 SIMPSON STREET 


CAVEN LIBRARY. 
KNOX COLLEGE 
TORONTO 








; CopyRIGHT, 1903, BY 
; MICHAEL L, RODKINSON 
690% _ 
1908. 

















THE REV. MICHAEL L. RODKINSON, D. T. 





a 


Die an 
Pte tegt 


7) 

















TO HIM 
WHO IS A LIBERAL DONOR TO ALL PHILANTHROPIC INSTITUTIONS 
A FRIEND OF ISRAEL’S PUREST IDEALS, LITERATURE 
AND RELIGION 


ADOLPH LEWISOHN, Esa. 


THIS BOOK IS MOST RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED BY THE AUTHOR 


MICHAEL L. RODKINSON 


New YorRK, IN MONTH ELUL, SEPTEMBER IST, 1903 








bn oe 


PREFACE. 


THE ancient authors used to begin the prefaces to their 
works with the proverb “‘Sepher be Lo Hakdamha keguph be 
Lo nechamaha,”’ which means ‘‘A book without a preface is 
similar to a body without a soul’’; and, indeed, this proverb 
remains forever true. At the time we began our translation 
of the Talmud, we were aware that to the study of it a clear 
preface which should explain its nature and the character of 
the sages mentioned in it was necessary, as without it there 
would be great difficulty for students in catching the real 
meaning, and in some places the reader would be confused, 
not being aware of its history and of the names mentioned— 
who these were and when they existed. : 

With this in mind, we had already prepared the present 
work in 1897, when only a few volumes of our translation had 
been issued. Although we gave a brief general introduction 
to the first volume of the translation, and also some prefaces 
and introductions in the succeeding volumes, they do not suf- 
fice for the student who desires to have a clear idea of all that 
he is studying. 

However, the translation has taken up so much of our time 
that it has hitherto been impossible for us to look up every- 
thing pertinent to our purpose that has been written and to 
submit it in presentable form. Now, after the completion, 
with the Divine help of the two large sections, containing 
twenty-seven tracts, and in response to many inquiries from the 
reading public for some explanations, we find that now is the 
time to put forth this work; and, instead of adding two more 
volumes to the translation of the Talmud in the current year, 
we have decided to furnish the two volumes which form our 
“History of the Talmud.” 

It may be inferred that what was written several years ago 
has had to be thoroughly revised and corrected, according to 
the literature which has appeared since that time. There is an 


vi PREFACE. 


old witticism, ‘‘Koshe Atika Me Chadtha’’; 1.e., ‘It is more 
difficult to correct an old thing than to write a new one’”’; and, 
as a matter of fact, it has taken a great deal of time to make 
the necessary changes and corrections in what we had written. 
As a natural consequence, the work is enlarged, and many 
chapters have been added since the issue of our prospectus. 
All this concerns the first volume of this work, as it relates to 
~ the history of the Talmud only, as to which there has been 
little new information. True there have been some new dis- 
sertations on the Talmud in Germany, but they do not add 
much to our knowledge concerning it, and may therefore be 
ignored. 

The second volume, however, we have had to recast and 
rewrite. In this labor the wonderful work of that western 
light which was recently extinguished—we mean the Rev. Dr. 
Mielziner—“ Introduction to the Talmud,’’ which has reached 
a second edition and has been so favorably received by all stu- 
dents of both continents, was of great service to us. As Dr. 
Mielziner’s work contains essentially all that concerns the Tal- 
mud itself, we resolved to take it as a text for our historical 
introduction, adding and abating as we deemed necessary. 
We have done so, also, with the second part, ‘‘ The Ethics of the 
Talmud,’ which he arranged so admirably. Here, also, we 
have added whatever, according to our knowledge, there was 
left for us to bring to the attention of the reader. 

Now, the work being finished, we regard it as a suitable 
preface to our translation and one which will enlighten the 
understanding of the reader in many places. At the same time, 
it seems to us to be interesting to the general reader who has 
neither time nor inclination for the study of the Talmud. 

This is all we need say in the preface, referring the reader 
for more details to our introduction, which follows. 


THE AUTHOR. 
New York, September, 1903. 








CONTENTS OF VOLUME I. 





PREFACE. ee : ; : : : f a i - 
INTRODUCTION ‘ : . : j F 3 5 r F 


CHAPTER I. 


THe ORIGIN OF THE NAME “TALMUD.” THE SAMARITANS. 
ANTIOCHUS EPIPHANES. THE SADDUCEES . ; : 


CHAPTER II. 


Tue DEVELOPMENT OF THE TALMUD DuRING THE LAsT CEN- 
TURY OF THE SECOND TEMPLE’S EXISTENCE (2.¢. THE 
First A.C.) SHEMAIA. ABTALIAN. HILLEL. SHAMMAI. 
Tue Princes (Nasis) oF IsRAEL. R. JOHANAN B. ZAKKAI. 
SANHEDRIN OF JAMNIA. THE JEWISH CHRISTIANS 


CHAPTER III. 


THe DESTRUCTION OF THE TEMPLE. THE FALL OF BETHEL. 
THE MASSACRE OF THE SAGES OF THE TALMUD, TILL THE 
WRITING OF THE MISHNA IN THE BEGINNING OF THE 
THIRD CENTURY . : A : 


CHAPTER IV. 


Tue Tuirp CENTURY. THE ARRANGEMENT OF THE MISHNAS. 
Tue TALMUDIC COLLEGES OF PALESTINE AND BABYLONIA, 


CHAPTER V. 


Tue TALMUD OF JERUSALEM, THE TALMUD OF BABYLONIA, 
THE CHARACTER OF THEIR HALAKHA AND HAGADA, THE 
DATES OF THEIR COMPLETION AND THEIR SYSTEMAT.ZA- 
TION. ; , ‘ ; : ; : ; ; ; 


CHAPTER VI. 


THE PERSECUTIONS OF THE TALMUD IN THE PERSIAN AND By- 
ZANTINE EMPIRES IN THE SIXTH CENTURY AFTER THE 
CLOSE OF THE TALMUD , 5 


Io 


13 


17 


23 


viii CONTENTS. 
CHAPTER VII. 


THE EIGHTH CENTURY. THE DOMINION OF THE GAONIM. THE 

OPPOSITION OF THE KARAITES, THE ESTABLISHMENT OF 

A SEcT oF THAT NAME F a } ; ; , 
CHAPTER VIII. 


IsLAM AND ITS INFLUENCE ON THE TALMUD, . t , 


CHAPTER IX. 


THE VICTORY OF KARAISM OVER THE SPIRITUAL DOMINION OF 
THE TALMUD AND THE MIND OF THE JEWISH NATION. 
THE Last GAONIM AT SURA AND PUMBEDITHA. THE 
CENTRE OF TALMUDIC STUDY TRANSFERRED FROM MESO- 
POTAMIA TO SPAIN. THE SCHOLARS OF KAIRUBAN. THE 
PERIOD OF THE GREATEST DIFFUSION OF TALMUDIC 
STupDy . : 5 ; j ‘ : : : : ; 

CHAPTER X. 


THE SPANISH WRITERS, A BRIEF SURVEY OF THEIR WRITINGS 
RELATING TO THE TALMUD , 3 : . 


CHAPTER XI. 


THE SCHOLARS OF GERMANY AND OF NORTHERN FRANCE, AND 
WHAT THEY CONTRIBUTED TO THE STUDIES OF THE TAL- 
MUD. : : ; . F ‘ ? : ; ; 


CHAPTER XII. 


THE Doctors oF FRANCE. AUTHORS OF THE TOSPHOTH i 


CHAPTER XIII. 


RELIGIOUS DisPUTES OF ALL PERIODS ; ; : , ‘ 


CHAPTER XIV. 
REUCHLIN, PFEFFERKORN, AND THE TALMUD IN THE SIx- 
. TEENTH AND SEVENTEENTH CENTURIES , ; : , 
CHAPTER XV. 


POLEMICS WITH MuUSSULMANS AND THE DISPUTES WITH THE 
FRANKISTS , ‘ ; . 4 ; . , ; ¢ 


PAGE 


33 


36 


43 


50 


57 


61 


76 


99 





See 4 ts SR 


CONTENTS. 
CHAPTER XVI. 


THE PERSECUTIONS OF THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY, THE HEAD 
oF WHOM WAS JOHANN ANDREAS EISENMENGER : ; 


CHAPTER XVII. 


THE POLEMICS AND THE ATTACKS UPON THE TALMUD IN THE 
NINETEENTH CENTURY ‘ é : ¢ ; : ; 


CHAPTER XVIII. 


Tue AFFAIR OF RHOLING-BLOCK ; et stots : ; 


CHAPTER XIX. 


EXILARCHS; THE TALMUD AT THE STAKE AND ITs DEVELOP- 
MENT AT THE PRESENT TIME . : ; ‘ 


APPENDIX A. 


Nos. 1 TO 18 CoNTAINS EIGHTEEN EXPLANATORY NOTES TO 
THE TEXT . : ; : : : : . 2 , 

No. 19 CONTAINS AN EXTRACT OF THE CONCLUSION OF OUR 
REVIEW TO Dr. Kopr’s Book, MENTIONED IN TEXT . 

No. 20 CONTAINS A TRANSLATION OF A FEW PAGES OF OUR 
Book, “ DER SCHULCHAN ARUCH UND SEINE BEZIEHUNGEN 
ZU DEN JUDEN UND NICHTJUDEN,” CONCERNING THE 
TRIAL BEFORE THE “ LANDESGERICHTE,” AT MUNSTER, 
DEC. 10, 1883, ABOUT THE ACCUSATION OF THE TALMUD 
AND SCHULCHAN ARUCH . : , 4 , , 3 

No, 21 LETTER OF THE THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY 

No, 22 JEWISH ENCYCLOPADIA . , : , , : 


APPENDIX B. 


CRITICISM TO CHAPTER VII. (KARAITES). THE BELIEFS OF 
SADDUCEES, KARAITES, AND OF THE REFORMED JEWS, AND 
ALSO ABOUT RESURRECTION : : ; : ‘ ‘ 


PAGE 


104 


106 


109 


115 


I2t 


125 


126 
136 


Wan 
of 








INTRODUCTION. 


The persecutors of the Talmud during the period ranging 
from the first century B.c., when it began to take form, to the 
present day, have varied in their character, objects and actions. 
In one respect, however, they all agreed, namely, in their general 
wish to destroy its existence. Careful consideration of its many 
vicissitudes certainly justifies the assertion that the Talmud is 
one of the wonders of the world. During the twenty centuries 
of its existence not one of them has passed without great and 
powerful enemies vying with each other and exhausting every 
effort to destroy it ; still it survived in its entirety, and not only 
has the power of its foes failed to destroy even a single line, 
but it has not even been able materially to weaken its influ- 
ence for any length of time. It still dominates the minds of a 
whole people, who venerate its contents as divine truth, and 
countless numbers have sacrificed their lives and their posses- 
sions to save it from perishing. 

A review of its persecutors, before going into their history 
would not be amiss. They are the Seleucidae, in the time of 
Antiochus Epiphanes, the Roman Emperor Nero, Domitian, 
Hadrian, etc., the Samaritans, the Sadducees, Boethuseans, the 
followers of Jesus, and all the sects opposed to the Pharisees. 

- Before the development of the Talmud had been completed, 
when hardly a single section had been arranged systematically 
and written down, it having been known merely as oral teach- 
ing in the mouths of the sages, and reconsidered and analyzed 
constantly by their disciples in the colleges, it was violently at- 
tacked. But no sooner had the Talmud been completed in Bab- 
ylonia,and the Saburites had put their seal upon it, so to speak, 
deciding that nothing was to be added to or substracted from, 
when Justinian decreed practically its death; that is to say, 
what amounted to the same thing, capital punishment to all 
those who were occupied in its study (550). Then followed the 
Karaites, in the days of the Gaonim, who seriously threatened 


uisae INTRODUCTION. 


its existence. Time and time again they triumphed over Tal- 
mudic Rabbis and were near making an end of the Talmud and 
of them. ‘The Rabbis next encountered the Popes. Fromthe 
time of Pope Innocent III., the Talmud was burned at the 
stake in nearly every century from the 11th to ther8th, in Italy, 
France, Germany, Spain, and many other countries, and in the 
18th, also in Poland by the Frankists, by Bishop Dembovski, 
where copies were dragged through the streets of the city, tied 
to horses’ tails and then delivered to the executioner to be 
burned at the stake in Kamenetz, Lemberg, Brody and else- 
where. In most places, before it was resolved what was to be 
done with Talmud, the Israelites were forced to dispute with 
its enemies, and had to pay heavy fines for arriving late to the 
dispute, as wellas for being vanquished in argument, the judges 
being their enemies. Still what has been theresult? The Tal- 
mud exists to-day, and not one letter in it is missing. It is true, 
the persecutions against it are not yet at an end; accusations 
and calumnies by its enemies, under the new name of anti- 
Semites, are still directed against it, while the government of 
Russia legislates against and restricts the rights of the nation 
which adheres to the Talmud. No modern persecutions, how- 
ever, can seriously endanger its existence, and it would appear 
that the Talmud will also survive them and continue as long as 
the sky spans the earth. 

A desire to know all that has befallen the Talmud and all its 
vicissitudes since its inception would require the reading of all 
the scattered passages in countless volumes which have been 
compiled in various ages, languages, and countries. Its his- 
tory, however, has never yet been written bya single author. 
Treaties on the Talmud itself, or on certain subjects contained 
therein, have briefly related part of its history, each according 
to the subject and the aim of its theme. Such are the works of 
Zunz and Gratz, the one dealing with rabbinical literature, and 
the other writing concerning the history of the Jews. Similarly 
the historians of the world, relating in detail the occurrences of 
every century, have briefly made mention of what happened to 
the Talmud in each century. Even inthe year there appeared 
a pamphlet entitled ‘‘Anklager und Vertheidiger des Tal- 
mud’ (accusers and defenders), by Dr. B. Kurrein, of 
Frankfort-on-the-Main, apparently giving the entire history of 




















INTRODUCTION. 3 


the Talmud from its origin to the present time, but it contains 
only dates (and not even these in full) and not occurrences. No 
mention is made of Karaites, who persecuted it in the times of 
the Gaonim, or of the Frankists of the 18th century, of its fate 
during the 15th century ; the Pfefferkorn and Reuchlin episode 
is mentioned only in part, and by no means satisfactory to the 
reader curious about the details, not to speak of the Rohling- 
Bloch, at the end of the r9th century. Itis, indeed, a matter of 
astonishment that hundreds of books have been written about 
the Talmud by exponents of all sects and in all ages, to say 
nothing of the extensive modern literature dealing with the 
Talmud in whole or in part, amounting to thousands of volumes 
—in particular a work, ‘“‘ Dikduke Sophrim,”’ published in the 
last century, containing only the dates and publishers’ names 
of the various editions of the Talmud, in seventeen large vol- 
umes,with a comparison of all words and letters of the different 
editions and manuscripts, and this only of two-thirds of the 
Talmud— the fate of the Talmud, the charges brought against 
it, the repeated persecutions, the burning at the stake, have 
not been recorded in a separate work, as though unworthy of 
notice. It has been thus left for us to supply the deficiency. 
For we, who have taken upon ourselves the difficult task of 
editing the old Talmud, to punctuate it in conformity with 
works in other languages, to systematize and arrange it for a 
new edition, and to translate it into a modern language, deem 
it our duty to collect into one book all the records of the vicis- 
situdes of the Talmud in a systematic manner, at the same time 
stating the causes of many occurrences. 

It is quite true, that in many places we have been constrained 
to be brief where a more ample account would not have been out 
of place, but it must be borne in mind that to expatiate on 
every incident would lead to the writing of a volume equal in 
bulk to the Talmud itself, perhaps even larger, and time would 
not permit such an undertaking. In one respect, however, we 
will do our duty; we will arrange all the events chronologically, 
and we have taken pains to denote the time and place of differ- 
ent events and likewise to name the persecutors of the Talmud. 
We trust this volume will meet with a favorable reception from 
the readers, for our work was done conscientiously, and to the 
utmost of our talents. To save space, we have not on every 


- 


4 INTRODUCTION. 


occasion mentioned the authorities from whom we derived our 
facts, but only when we had to refer the reader for details to 
other books we gave the name and page of the book. Wemay 
state, however, that the sources on which we have drawn are all 
the books which speak of this subject, viz.: the Talmud itself, 
the books of the Gaonim, and those written on this topic in the 
Middle Ages, as well as the extensive literature relating to it of 
the last century, from Zunz, Jost, Herzfeld, Graetz, etc., to the 
pamphlet we have mentioned. At the conclusion of the book 
the reader will find an explanation of the method employed in 
the new edition and translation of the Talmud, and at the same 
time a full introduction. We made it as lucid as possible, and 
also endeavored to reply to some criticisms that have appeared 
in various periodicals since the new publication had first 
appeared. 
MicHAEL L. RoDKINSON. 
New York, August, 1903. 











THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


CHAPTER I. 


THE ORIGIN OF THE NAME ‘“ TALMUD’’—THE SAMARITANS— 
ANTIOCHUS EPIPHANES—THE SADDUCEES. 


The name “written law” was given to the Pentateuch, 
Prophets and Hagiographa, and that of “‘oral law”’ to all the 
teachings of the “‘sages’’ consisting of comments on the text of 
the Bible. The word Torah alone was applied to the entire 
Bible, the term ‘‘Talmud” was reserved for the oral law, 
though the meaning of these two words is identical; namely, 
“teaching” or “study.” Still, because it is written Velimdo 
(Deut. xxxi, 19), and teach it the children of Israel (put it in 
their mouths; that is to say that the teacher’s duty was to ex- 
plain and comment on the laws and ordinances until the chil- 
dren understood them thoroughly and were conversant with 
them by heart)—the name ‘‘ Talmud”’ was applied to what was 
styled by a long phrase ‘‘ Oral Law”’ (Torah-she b’al-Peh). This 
word designated all the commentaries of the sages on the Script- 
ures which the Pharisees had begun to interpret figuratively. 

Figurative interpretation was inaugurated in the daysof the 
Great Assembly when its members resolved to keep themselves 
distinct from the Samaritans, their inveterate enemies, who ad- 
hered to the literal interpretation of the text, which, in the 
opinion of the Pharisees, was falsified by them. This study, 
however, commenced to make progress at the time of the San- 
hedrin, or from that of the Macedonian conquest of Judea, when 
the term ‘‘ Great Assembly” was changed to the Greek “ Sanhe- 
drin.” It spread into every college where were assembled sages 
entrusted with the guidance of congregations, with instruction 
of the Law, of ordinances relating to clean and unclean, to prop- 


6 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


erty, to crimes. All sages who interpreted the biblical passages 
figuratively, unlike the Samaritans, were called ‘‘ Pharisees.”’ 
The Samaritans of course persecuted those Pharisees (see App. 
No. 1), objected to their interpretation, and did them great in- 
jury whenever they had the power. At last, Janai, Hyrcanus 
the First, overcame them, burned their temple, devastated 
their city, and compelled them by force of arms to conduct 
themselves according to the doctrines of the Pharisees, though 
he himself in his latter years became a Sadducee. 

Until the time of Antiochus Epiphanes, before which period 
all the high priests since the erection of the second temple had 
been of the family of Zadok, King David’s high priest (see App. 
2), and the priests had been also among the sages of the Phari- 
sees and no disputes arose between them as to the interpreta- 
tion of the law. From the time of Antiochus, however, when 
the high priesthood passed from the descendants of Zadok to 
other families, finally coming into the possession of the Macca- 
bees, who were not descendants of the house of Zadok, began to 
differ from the Pharisees in the interpretation of the Torah, and 
to explain the texts on the basis of oral tradition. They 
founded a distinct sect, styled ‘‘Sadducees”’ (after Zadok), and 
the dispute with the Pharisees and their teaching, 7.e. with the 
Talmud, was begun. They persecuted the Pharisees to the 
utmost; being mostly men of wealth and rank, and in their 
hearts leaning toward the Hellenes, who then held sway in Pal- 
estine, they joined the Samaritans, the foes of the Jews, whose 
aim was to eradicate the study of Judaism. Thus united, they 
gave their aid to Antiochus Epiphanes, who was anyhow the 
enemy of the Jews, and who decreed on the pain of capital pun- 
ishment that the Pharisees should discontinue their studies, 
that circumcision should be performed in a manner other than 
that prescribed by the Pharisees (see App. No. 3) ; that the Sab- 
bath should not be observed according to the interpretation of 
the Sabbath law by the Pharisees, etc. The obvious intention 
was to destroy the Talmud together with Pharisees who adhered 

toit. These persecutions against the Talmud ended usually in 
favor of the Sadducees until the time of Simon ben Shetah, and 
the above mentioned Janai, Hyrcanus I. (Johanan the High 
Priest). Then the Pharisees triumphed over their foes, and the 
oral law was the absorbing subject of the Sanhedrin, under the 


— 





ce 








THE FIRST A. C. i 


leadership of Joshuah b. Prachia, Simon b. Shetah and Jehudah 
b. Tabai. The Talmud was then studied in all colleges of Pal- 
estine, Egypt and wherever Jews lived. Owing to the enmity 
of the Samaritans and the opposition of the Sadducees, many 
laws and regulations were added tothe Talmud of the Pharisees. 
From that time the Pharisees began to restrict their interpreta- 
tions so as to make them agree with the deep though literal 
meaning of the texts, employing therein much sophistry. They 
counted all the letters of the Torah, and if they found a word or 
letter not absolutely necessary to the understanding of the 
text, they said it was placed there only to add to or subtract 
from the meaning. But at that period the Mishna was not a 
separate and distinct thing from the Talmud, though many 
ancient Mishnas already existed in writing, but without a sepa- 
rate title. The Pharisees studied the ancient Mishnayoth, 
added (see App. No. 4) to them, and explained the biblical texts. 
All this was entitled Oral Law, or, shortly, ‘‘ Talmud.” 


CHAPTER II. 


THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE TALMUD DURING THE LAST CENTURY 
OF THE SECOND TEMPLE’S EXISTENCE (1.¢. THE FIRST A.C.) 
SHEMAIA—ABTALIAN—HILLEL—SHAMMAI—THE PRINCES 
(NASIS) OF ISRAEL—R. JOHANAN B. ZAKKAI—SANHEDRIN 
OF JAMNIA—THE JEWISH CHRISTIANS. 


After the triumph of Simon b. Shetah over the Sadducees, 
when he had finally cleared the Sanhedrin of them, and only the 
Pharisees remained there, the development of the Talmud pro- 
gressed rapidly, for the number of the sages, the adherents, 
reverers, sanctifiers of the Talmud, increased greatly in the col- 
leges of the Ashkaloth (Duumviri) who succeeded to ben She- 
tah: Shemaia and Abtalian, and, after them, Hillel and Sham- 
mai. And although at that time new enemies arose, in the 
Boethuseans, Essenes, and many other sects who were opposed 
to its particular doctrines, yet those had not the power tocheck 
its progress or to weaken its influence—not only on all Israelites, 
wherever they dwelt, but also on many Gentiles: for at that 
time we see that prominent persons of other nations (App. No. 
5) come to the chief men of Israel and express their wish to 


8 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


adopt Judaism. Hillel the Elder received them with open 
arms. Helen the Queen, and her son, Isotis, also accepted the 
creed of the Talmud. All this was due to the fact that its 
morality came at this time to be before the world. The Poly- 
theists began to perceive the great difference between the teach- 
ing of their priests in the names of the gods, and the Torah as 
explained by its sages. From all places of the world came per- 
sons to learn the doctrines and the morality of the Talmud. 
This period of good fortune, however, was only of short dura- 
tion, as the time of the destruction of the Temple was nigh, and 
with it the victims of the sword and of hunger were many. 
Among these were the great sages who bore the banner of the 
Talmud, and their wisdom died with them. The Sanhedrin 
had been forced, while the Temple was still in existence, to 
transfer their meeting places from the ‘‘marble hall” to the 
‘“shops.”” Rabban Gamaliel the Elder, the son of Hillel the 
Prince (Nasi) was persecuted by them, and his son Simeon 
was slain, together with many sages. Thus, if R. Johanan 
b. Zakkai had not, risking his life, petitioned Vespasian to 
spare the Sanhedrin, who had been compelled during the 
tumults at Jerusalem to move with their college to Jamnia, 
there would have remained no vestige of the Talmud, since most 
of those who cherished it had passed away by the sword, by 
hunger and by the plague. Besides, the disciples of Jesus (see 
App. No. 6), who then believed in his Messiahship, but not in his 
divinity, began secretly to undermine the Talmud, which laid 
more stress on external ceremonies than they deemed necessary, 
and endeavored with all their might to weaken its influence 
among the populace, but R. Jehanan b. Zakkai and the Sanhe- 
drin in Jamnia, with Rabban Gamaliel, the son of the slain 
Simeon, at their head, restored the Talmud to its prestige, 
and took pains to raise up others in the places of the mur- 
dered sages. 

Thus the study of the Talmud flourished after the destruc- 
tion of the Temple, although beset with great difficulties and 
desperate struggles. All his days, R. Johanan b. Zakkai was 
obliged to dispute with Sadducees and Bathueians and, no 
doubt, with the Messiahists also; for although these last were 
Pharisees, they differed in many points from the teaching of the 
Talmud after their master, Jesus, had broken with the Phari- 








THE FIRST A. C. 9 


sees and their doctrines in public. So R. Johananb. Zakkai 
was obliged to introduce many reforms; and Rabban Gamaliel 
of Jamnia, notwithstanding his office of Nasi, and his lofty bear- 
ing towards his colleagues and adversaries, was compelled to go 
many times to Rome to ask for mercy for his college and the 
Pharisaic sages. And this first Nasi, after the Temple’s de- 
struction, also had to witness the evil consequences of quarrels 
‘in the midst of his own nation, added to the calamities from 
without. | 

As the interpretations of every letter and vowel point of the 
written law had multiplied, and liberty had been given to every 
learned man to construe biblical texts at his pleasure, the dif- 
ferences of opinion multiplied, and the disciples of Shammai 
and Hillel, whose master’s characters differed to the utmost, 
split into two factions and studied in separate colleges. Thus 
the teaching of the Talmud was differently interpreted by two 
parties, and what the one permitted, the other forbade. This 
circumstance was of more danger to the Talmud than any ex- 
ternal foe, for when there is no internal union, the whole fabric 
will go to pieces, and its influence will, of course, diminish. 
Therefore the sages of Jamnia, with R. Gamaliel at their head, 
strove not only to decide the law according to the school of 
Hillel, but also to decree that the words of Shammai’s school in 
the place of Hillel’s had no value at all. And what a world of 
difficulty the sages had to surmount before they succeeded! 
R. Simeon ben Gamaliel rightly says “‘ If we proceeded to record 
all the troubles and calamities we had endured, time would 
not suffice.”’ 

But in the long run they did succeed in widening and in- 
creasing the sphere of influence of the Talmud, for both the in- 
ternal dissensions and external opposition only tended to sink 
more deeply into the hearts of the people its doctrines (Hala- 
khas), legends (Hagadas) and morals. At the end of the first 
century it was to them a substitute for their destroyed Temple ; 
it was their stronghold, their entertainment by day and by night. 
It was only when they were occupied with it that they forgot all 
the calamities past and present; it was the sole bond which 
kept together the scattered colonies of Israelites, which 
strengthened them to bear the yoke of the Romans, to hope for 
brighter days, to be patient unto the end. 


10 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


CHAPTER III. 


THE DESTRUCTION OF THE TEMPLE—THE FALL OF BETHEL—THE 
MASSACRE OF THE SAGES OF THE TALMUD, TILL THE WRIT- 
ING OF THE MISHNA IN THE BEGINNING OF THE THIRD CEN- 
TURY. ; 


The Temple had been destroyed; Rabban Gamaliel and 
many of his colleagues were dead; the family of the Nasi extir- 
pated, excepting only his son R. Simeon, who succeeded to his 
father as Nasi and established a college at Usha; and new per- 
secutions, awful in their extent, were directed against those who 
were engaged in the compilation of the Talmud. The sages, 
the chief men of Israel, were slaughtered without pity by Trajan 
and his successors through the entire period of fifty-two years 
. from the destruction of the Temple to the fall of Bethel. Some 
of these founders of the Talmud who forfeited their lives for its 
sake are known to us only by their names: R. Ishmael, Simeon 
b. Azai, Papus b. Jehudah, Yishbab the Scribe, Huzpeth the 
Dragoman (interpreter), Jehudah the Baker, Hananiah b. Tra- 
dion and Aqiba; the last, the main pillar of the Talmud,and who 
contributed much to its diffusion and completion, died with joy 
at being enabled to sacrifice his life for it. 

One of the causes of the great revolt against the Romans at 
this time was the prohibition by the Roman government of the 
study of the Torah, wherein alone the Jews found comfort, 
since only in their houses of learning could they enjoy complete 
peace and freedom. But as the death penalty had been de- 
creed against all who occupied themselves with religious study _ 
and observed its precepts, and as this prohibition deprived 
them of their only source of consolation, they rebelled, led by 
Bar Kochba. R. Aqgiba was the first to become his adherent, 
who journeyed from town to town, inciting the Israelites to 
rebel, and bringing them the message that a saviour of Israel 
had arisen in Bar Kochba, the Messiah. It is not surprising, 
therefore, that Hadrian, when he had ascended to the throne, 
was not content barely with the massacre of the sages of the 
Talmud, but was intent also on the destruction of the Talmud 
itself. Unable to find a pretext for killing all the sages who 
kept it up, he decreed that if any of the old rabbis should 








THE BEGINNING OF THE THIRD CENTURY. 11 


qualify a young rabbi for Israel, both should be put to death, 
and the place in which such took place should be destroyed, be- 
lieving that with the death of the elder generation the Talmud 
would be forgotten and Israel would blend with the nations and 
its memory be obliterated; because he very well knew that as 
long as the Talmud existed there was little hope for the assimi- 
lation of the Jews with other nations. This decree, however, 
was not executed, and his murderous plan was further frus- 
trated by R. Jehudah b. Baba, who, forewarned of the decree 
and comprehending its consequences, betook himself to a place 
between two great mountains between Usha and Shprehem and 
licensed six of the older men of R. Aqiba’s disciples to be rabbis 
(t.e., teachers of the Talmud): R. Meir, R. Jehudah b. Elai, R. 
Jose b. Halaphta, R. Simeon b. Jochai, R. Eleazar b. Shemua, 
and R. Nehemiah. Having done this, and feeling sure that as 
long as these men lived the Talmud would be kept alive, he 
thus addressed them: ‘“‘ Fly, my sons, and hide from the wrath 
of the enemy. I alone will remain, and will offer my body to 
satiate their vengeance.’’ And in fact the Romans pierced his 
body with three hundred iron lances, so that it resembled a 
sieve; but the newly consecrated rabbis were saved, and with 
them the Talmud. (See Sanhedrin, p. 30.) 

Thus the efforts of Hadrian met with no success, so that at 
last he said to himself: ‘‘ Great is the sheep that stands among 
seventy wolves.’”’ He saw the Talmud still existing, bringing 
to naught his plan for converting the Jews, uniting Israel into 
one people, and establishing it still more firmly as a national 
and a religious whole. For the six rabbis named above very 
soon became the soul of Talmudic study; some of them were 
with R. Simeon, the Nasi, in Shprehem, and others founded col- 
leges of their own. Through them the Talmud regained its 
former power and influence, and one of them, R. Ilai, became 
the chief teacher of R. Jehudah the Nasi, the compiler of the 
Mishna. 

The translation of the Bible (written law) into Greek also 
contributed very much to the popularization of the Talmud. 
As long as the Torah was in the sacred language only (for the 
Aramaic version of the time of Ezra had been concealed or de- 
stroyed as early as the time of Rabban Gamaliel the Elder, the 
son of Simeon who had been slain, or probably even during the 


12 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


life of the latter),* all Jewish sects and foreign scholars inter- 
preted it in their own way. But a wise Greek, a convert of 
Judaism, Aquila the Proselyte, who received the doctrines of 
the Talmud from the disciples of R. Johanan b. Zakkai and also 
from R. Agiba, translated the Bible into Greek. This version 
was not acceptable to the Jewish believers in Jesus (Messian- 
ists)—-who must already at that period have constituted a large 
sect—hbecause their construction of many passages in the Mes- 
sianic spirit was flatly disregarded by the new translation ; nor 
to the Romans, because all expressions seeming to imply the 
materiality of the Deity were translated in a figurative sense— 
as for example, “the hand of the Lord”’; “the glory of the 
Lord,’’ which the statue-worshipping Romans could not en- 
dure with equanimity, and further because by this translation 
the nature and doctrines of the Talmud became known to many 
nations, who found no evil in it. In our opinion the version of 
Aquila was the sole cause of the despatch of censors from Rome 
to revise the Talmud, and these censors avowed that its teach- 
ing was true. Be it as it may, in studying the history of the 
Talmud during the first three centuries the reader is easily con- 
vinced of the great courage and patience of the sages of the Tal- 
mud. Forno year of that period passed without trouble from 
its external as well as from its internal foes, as R. Simeon b. 
Gamaliel, the Nasi of Jamnia, himself testifies. (See above, p.g.) 
For even after the death of Hadrian it enjoyed but a short re- 
spite, for Antoninus Pius renewed the decree of Hadrian, and 
only with much trouble and at great risk of his life did the Nasi 
succeed in inducing R. Simeon b. Jochai and R. Josi to go with 
him to Rome to petition the Cesar to repeal the decree, which, 
according to the tradition of the Talmud, they effected only 
through the intervention of ‘‘ Ben Temalion”’ (a demon, accord- 
ing to some; aman, according to others). And yet, in spite of 
this, during this very period, the Talmud became so popular 
that every town wherein Jews had their habitation possessed 
also a house of learning for the study of the Talmud; so that 
everywhere it bloomed and flourished, and bore the fruit of the 
Mishna, as we shall see in the next chapter. 





* See our ‘‘ Pentateuch, its Languages and Characters,” pp. 16-17. 








THE MISHNAS. 13 


CHAPTER IV. 


THE THIRD CENTURY—THE ARRANGEMENT OF THE MISHNAS— 
THE TALMUDIC COLLEGES OF PALESTINE AND BABYLONIA. 


The sages, the commentators of the Talmud, differed in 
opinion as to the epoch when the Talmud began to be written 
down. The scholars of Spain, and their colleagues and disci- 
ples, said that it had been recorded from notes possessed since 
schools had begun in Israel, a long time before R. Jehudah the 
Nasi. The scholars of France, among them “ Rashi,’”’ however, 
declared that not a line was written till the completion of the 
Talmud, before which its study had been oral. Each school 
adduced proofs in behalf of its assertion. Modern scholars have 
made a compromise between these various versions, by assert- 
ing that during the first centuries the commentators of the Tal- 
mud in the beginning had taken notes of their studies, and later 
had written them out in a permanent form. It would seem 
that as the persecutions had at their commencement been very 
severe, and the sages (see App. No. 7) felt that their lives were in 
peril, they decided to write its teaching in secret and to conceal 
it from its foes. No sooner had the Pharisees granted permis- 
sion for this (for till then it was absolutely forbidden to put in 
writing oral law) than the number of manuscripts became very 
great; and when R. Jehudah the Nasi came to occupy the seat 
of his father and had been confirmed in authority (since he en- 
joyed the friendship of one Antonius, who was in power at 
Rome), he discovered that from the multitude of the trees the 
forest could not be seen; that is, from the multitude of the 
Mishnas the people had lost sight of the Talmud. He therefore 
resolved to compile, selecting out of all the written and the un- 
written law, clear Mishnayoth, and to systematize them. 

Indeed, the period was very favorable to this undertaking, 
for the Talmud enjoyed a respite from persecutors external and 
internal. The Jewish followers of the Messiah, Jesus, began at 
this time to gradually blend with the foreigners who adopted 
the new creed; hence their influence on their brethren who per- 
sisted in the old faith was weakened. Still he met with many 
obstacles. The chief one was the division of opinion among the 
students of the Talmud themselves. For although his grand- 


14 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


father, Rabban Gamaliel the Elder, had succeeded in fixing the 
law in accordance with Hillel’s school, and declared, with the 
consent of many of the sages of the Talmud, the school of Sham- 
mai of no validity when at variance with Hillel’s, still the de- 
cree was weakened, when later he was deposed for a short time 
from his office of Nasi, and in his college were assembled four 
hundred students more, of diverse opinions. In view of this, 
and it was decided again that individual opinions, even those 
of the minority, should be considered, the differences between 
the students and the sages of his college were renewed with 
greater vigor. This state of things continued till the time of 
Rabbi, and in order that his Mishnayoth might be accepted he 
was compelled to give due weight to all the varying opinions, 
slighting none, even of those who were in direct contravention 
of the decision. ! 

The second difficulty was in selecting, from among the mass 
of incongruous doctrines and laws—many of which had become 
obsolete, and others found to be unnecessary or impracticable— 
those which were both practicable and of direct application 
(for a tradition relates that Rabbi found six hundred sections 
of Mishnayoth; and even if we admit that this number is 
greatly exaggerated, still if even one hundred existed, it was no 
light task to reduce them to six). 

The third difficulty was that as the subject had been studied 
in divers places, differing in dialect or language, all the Mish- 
nayoth had to be made uniform in their dialect. Added to all 
this, he was forced to clear the Mishnayoth from the insertions 
incorporated into it by the Messianists; for being many and 
considerable persons, and in close alliance with their colleagues 
the Pharisees during two centuries, they could not have failed 
to introduce into the Mishnayoth their own peculiar opinion 
and beliefs, many such passages, indeed, being found in the 
Gemara. 

Reason compels us to admit, at least, that there were pass- 
ages in the Mishnayoth concerning Jesus and his teachings; for 
how is it possible that an occurrence which holds so important 
a place in the history of Israel, and which has spread its influ- 
ence among the nations for centuries, should not be even hinted 
at in the Mishnayoth? We must, therefore, conclude that 
Rabbi thought it well to clear the Mishnayoth of any reference 





THE SUBJECTS OF ITS SECTIONS. 1s 


to the occurrence itself, as well as to the adherents of the new 
faith. In this he acted wisely, for he knew beforehand that the 
Mishnayoth would be the foundation upon which Judaism and 
the Talmud should be built, and that the interpretations of it 
would be many, each interpreter following the bias of his mind. 
Therefore it was deemed best by him to avoid all mention of the 
new event, to treat it as though it had no existence. Nothing 
can withstand a strong will. When once he had resolved to 
carry out his project at any cost, all difficulties vanished. He 
went from college to college, in cities far and near, in places 
where the great masters taught and learned; and though they 
‘surrounded him as cocks of Beth Bukia,’’ he was not shaken 
in his resolution, and with the help of his many friends and 
sympathizers he was finally enabled to arrange in order six 
sections of Mishnayoth, condensed from hundreds. Each sec- 
tion is given up to a general subject, and is subdivided into 
tracts dealing with matters which come naturally within the 
scope of the section. The tracts are further divided into chap- 
ters. 
The subjects of the sections and the tracts are as follows: 

1. The Section of Seeds —The general subject of this section 
is the law relating to vegetables, heave offerings, tithes, the 
sabbatical year, Kilaim, etc.; and at the head of this section he 
placed the tract on benedictions which man owes to his Maker 
every morning, beginning with those of the evening, which com- 
mences the day according to the Jewish custom. 

2. The Section of Festivals —This treats of the Sabbath holi- 
days (to each holiday being devoted a separate tract), and in- 
cidentally also of the duty of taxes before the holidays, and of 
mourning during the festivals. (See App. No. 8.) 

3. The Section of Women.—This deals with laws having refer- 
ence to women, marriage, divorce, in separate tracts, and there- 
to are added laws concerning vows and Nazarites, as women’s 
vows are dependent on the decision of their fathers and hus- 
bands, and Nazarites depend on women, who may legally con- 
secrate the child previous to its birth, as for example, Hannah 
and the mother of Samson. 

4. The Section of Damages.—This section treats of laws of 
property, of the judges, of the penalties which the court may 
prescribe, and is divided into the tracts “‘Sanhedrin,”’ “ Penal- 


16 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


ties’? (Makkoth), etc.; but as the first part treats only of dam- 
ages and their prevention, it is divided simply into three parts 
without distinct titles: but as first, second and third Geths, and 
as it treats of damages for which men are responsible, a tract on 
morals has been added—‘‘ Abboth.”’ (Sections ‘‘ Festivals and 
Jurisprudence” have been already translated into English by 
us in eighteen volumes; the synopsis of which will be here ap- 
pendixed.) 

5. The Section of Sacred Things (sacrifices), divided into 
tracts on sacrifices (Zebachim) firstlings (Bekhoroth), and by 
the way also Chulin; it treats of slaughtering, and examina- 
tion of the slaughtered animal used for profane purposes. 

6. The Section of Purifications (Tohoroth),—This deals with 
the subject of defilements and purifications in general, and has 
for special topics the defilement of vessels (Kelim), of plagues 
(Nega’im), of tents (Aholoth), etc., and a tract relating to a 
Nidah (menstruated woman). 

Thus he arranged all the laws relating to the Hebrew religion 
and to civil matters, and called his entire work Mishnayoth 
(Mishna), 2.e. meaning ‘‘teaching” to distinguish it from 
“Torah” and “Talmud,” and probably because it is written 
(Deut. vi. 7) V’shinantam—‘“ and thou shalt teach them dili- 
gently to thy children”’—1in the original version (Mishna Tohroh), 
which signifies really to explain and comment upon it. Thus 
the Mishna is an explanation of and a comment upon the Pen- 
tateuch (see footnote for a different explanation, in the intro- 
duction to ‘‘Sabbath’’), and teaches men how to conduct them- 
selves in relation to their fellow-men, and incites them to all 
good and praiseworthy (actions). 

In the short introduction to ‘‘Sabbath” (vi.-vii.) we have 
already described briefly the character of the Mishnayoth 
which Rabbi arranged, and how he succeeded in imparting to 
it the sanctity of the Pentateuch itself, so that nothing is to be 
added to them, and what was done later after Rabbi’s death, 
is not the place to expatiate on this subject; we may, however, 
state briefly that as soon as the Mishnayoth was completed, col- 
leges were founded in Palestine and Babylonia to explain the 
meaning of the Mishnayoth and develop their laws to their 
ultimate consequences. After Rabbi’s death, when Boraithoth 
and Toseptheth were discovered which did not form part of his 








THE GEMARA. 17 


compilation and which in many places contradicted the Mish- 
nayoth, these colleges busied themselves in reconciling them 
with the Mishnayoth and with each other. They accounted 
for contradictions in Baraithoth by saying that one spoke of a 
case under same circumstances, while another meant a like case 
under different circumstances. So they explained the differ- 
ences in the Mishnayoth themselves, often dividing a Mishna, 
whose parts seemed to contradict each other, and giving as ex- 
planation of the contradictions that the first part was accord- 
ing to one tana, but the latter part according to another. 
These discussions and comments on the Mishna they called 
“‘Gemara,’’ which also signifies ‘‘teaching’”’ in Aramaic, which 
was the spoken language of the sages of the Gemara (see in the 
above-mentioned introduction for a different reason), and to 
the combined Mishnayoth and Gemara they gave the old name, 
“Talmud.” 


CHAPTER V. 


THE TALMUD OF JERUSALEM, THE TALMUD OF BABYLONIA, THE 
CHARACTER OF THEIR HALAKHA AND HAGADA, THE DATES 
OF THEIR COMPLETION AND THEIR SYSTEMATIZATION. 


The sages of the Gemara, called Amaraim, and the commen- 
tators of Mishnayoth were of different characters. Some were 
intent only on diligently collecting Mishnayoth and Barai- 
thoth, wherever found, to compare them with each other, to 
correct their reading in conformity with Rabbi’s Mishnayoth, 
and ‘to separate the wheat from the chaff, z.e. to decide which 
Boraithoth was valid and which was not worthy of considera- 
tion (Boraithoth which were not studied in the colleges of R. 
Hyya and R. Ushia were not considered). On the other hand, 
there were others who devoted themselves to ingenious con- 
struction of the Mishnayoth and the Boraithoth itself, without 
adducing proofs from elsewhere. (See App. No. 9.) This con- 
sisted in scrupulously examining the letters in the Mishna, to 
eliminate or to amplify it where they judged necessary, to trace 
laws to their origin and to discover-what tana agreed with this 
Mishna and what differed from it, whether the same tana con- 
tradicted himself at different places, and whether it was incom- 

2 


18 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


patible to explain them in various ways, and the like. In the 
language of the Gemara they are distinguished by different 
titles. Those who studied the Mishnayoth were styled “Sinai, 
the master of the wheat,” and the dialecticians “‘the uprooters 
of mountains” or ‘‘acute men’”’; and although the preference 
was given to the former, as it was said, “‘all must resort to the 
master of the wheat,” yet the study of the Babylonian Tal- 
mudists being based on scholasticism, their acuteness is evinced 
in their so harmonizing the contradictions and disagreements, 
that they appear to point to the same meaning. 

Not only did they interpret the Boraithas at variance with 
the Mishnayoth, but when even one of the great Amoraim ap- 
peared to differ from the Mishna they so distorted the latter 
that it should seem to agree with the Amora. A similar dif- 
ference existed among the authors of the Hagada; some gave 
to biblical texts a new reading remote from the plain meaning, 
interpreting them in strange and marvellous ways, and basing 
on them legends of natural impossibilities, while some adhered 
closely to the literal meaning of texts, without adorning them 
with exaggerations. Though in the Palestinian and the Syrian, 
as well as in the Babylonian colleges, there were many scholars 
who assisted each other in their studies and comments on the 
Mishnayoth, the Palestinian differed from those of Babylon in 
this respect, that in the former the chief labor consisted in the 
collection of Halakhas, without profound researches into the 
deeper meanings and implications, even in the study of the mere 
Mishnayoth, all of which was totally unlike the manner of study 
in the Babylonian schools. Indeed, the Palestinians were in- 
ferior to the Babylonians in scholastic profundity and ingenuity, 
and but few of them distinguished themselves therein, except 
R. Johanan, R. Simeon b. Lakish, and several others of that 
period. Therefore, in the schools of Palestine, scholasticism 
was esteemed of little value, and in them the study of Halakhas 
fell into decay, so that finally the Hagada came to occupy the 
principal place, the Halakhas holding a subordinate position. 
In addition to this, they found themselves compelled to give 
their attention to the biblical texts, as the Messianists, who had 
grown in numbers, construed these texts favorably to Chris- 
tianity, and challenged the Jews to dispute with them. There- 
fore, the sages found themselves obliged to give the preference 











HALAKHA AND HAGADA. 19 


to the study of the Scriptures and Hagada. As at that time 
the impression was general that the most important element in 
the study of the Torah is ingenious reasoning on Halakha, it is 
not surprising that the Babylonian Talmud came to be received 
as the important and essential part of the Oral Law, while that 
of Palestine held a subordinate position. 

It is difficult to describe accurately and clearly the mode of 
thinking and ways of reasoning of the Talmud, which in truth 
is known only to one who has made it the study of his life. It 
is easier, however, to give a picture of the Talmudists’ views 
and notions as gathered from the Hagada. In this respect the 
Hagada of the Palestinian Talmud is superior to that of Baby- 
lon, as it had its birth in Palestine, and was borrowed thence by 
the Babylonians. 

Many books of Hagada had existed in Palestine, whose con- 
tents were incorporated later in various Midrashim, and some 
also in the Talmud, and even at that period there was a differ- 
ence of opinion as to their value. Some valued them, and some 
despised them. The Hagadas consist of two elements : first, 
the external garment of the thought, the tradition, and sec- 
ondly, the internal idea, allegorically shadowed forth, which 
constitutes literary value. The latter can be divided into three 
kinds: ‘‘ P’shat,”’ the interpretation of the meaning of biblical 
words; ‘“‘Drash,”” a free untrammelled interpretation of the 
scriptural texts; ‘‘Sod,’’ the deep mystic, religious meanings 
construed from the texts. By these three kinds of construction 
of Scripture, all’ subjects, topics and times are embraced and 
discussed. The Hagada, with its mystic and veiled religious 
wisdom, has exercised a great influence in the Oriental and 
heathen world, which has borrowed from it many precious 
gems of profound religious thought having Palestine for their 
birthplace. And indeed we find that the multitude of legends 
based on the Bible which have been current in, and reverenced 
by, the Mohammedan world for twelve hundred years, delight- 
ing both sages and the unlearned, are to be found in the Tal- 
mudic Hagada. Whether entire or only in the leading idea, 
their identity is recognizable. Many also of the legends of the 
Middle Ages to be found in the works of Dante, or those of 
Boccaccio, Cervantes, and Milton, are taken, consciously or 
unconsciously, from their original source, the Talmudic Hagada. 


20 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


The Fathers of the Christian church have likewise drawn on it, 
as Basilius of Cappadocia, Hieronymus, Chrysostomus, and 
many others who construed passages in the Bible in accordance 
with the Hagada. The moral code contained in the Hagada, 
teaches man how to conduct himself toward all men and in all 
situations of life. We shall deal with this moral law in a future 
chapter on the Ethics of the Talmud. 

The two Talmuds contain, then, Halakhas, Hagadas, refer- 
ences to all branches of science known in those days, but with- 
out any system or order. Many times a Hagada is interpolated 
in the middle of a Halakha, and again in like manner a digres- 
sion on a scientific subject extraneous to the Halakha is inserted 
in it. The compiler of the Talmud, whether from careless 
method or from the great labor involved, could introduce no 
order. In this respect there is little difference between the two 
Talmuds; nor is there much difference in the sources whence 
each drew its material. Sayings from the Talmud of Palestine 
are quoted in that of Babylonia, sometimes under the name of 
their author or their citer in Babylonia; other passages are 
stated to emanate from the “ West.”’ ‘‘In the West (Palestine) 
it was said.’’ In the Talmud Palestinian, similarly (vide I. H. 
Weiss, Vol. III., 127, etc.), the Babylonian authority is often 
given; ¢.g., ““ There they learn” or “‘say.”’ It is clear however 
that when the Babylonian Talmud was compiled that of Pal- 
estine was unknown to its compilers, although, according to the 
opinion of many, the Talmud of Palestine was arranged by R. 
Johanan and concluded by R. Jose bar Bun about one hundred 
years before the Babylonian; others, however, affirm that the 
Talmud of Palestine was concluded only in the eighth century 
or even as late as the ninth (in the time of Anan, the founder of 
the Karaite sect), and adduce evidence in substantiation. We 
may assume, as a compromise, both assertions to be true; the 
greater part had indeed been arranged and systematized in the 
time of Hillel, the last of the Nasis in the West, but it was not 
employed to any extent in the colleges remaining in Palestine 
and Syria, because the Babylonian Talmud had spread until it 
reached the West. But in the time of the Karaites many 
things were added to the Talmud of Palestine (to oppose the 
doctrines of the Karaites, as the small tract on Tephilin and the 
like, which that sect repudiated) by those who wished their 





ABBI ARIKHA AND R. ASHI. 2i 


words to be held as of equal sacredness with the Talmud, as was 
then customary. (We shall speak of this further on.) The 
bulk of the Palestine Talmud, after all the additions, is much 
less than that of the Babylonian, albeit it contains Gemara on 
two additional tracts (thirty-nine instead of thirty-seven, as 
will be explained) and fragmentary chapters of other tracts. 
This is owing to the fact that the discussion of the Mishnayoth is 
not so elaborate, and there is less of scholastics. We have 
already stated that its quality, as regards the Halakhas, is also 
inferior. It was not as popular as that of Babylonia, therefore 
fewer copies were made of it than of the latter. For this reason, 
since its conclusion its opponents have been less numerous, 
though it was very much persecuted at the time when it was 
studied in the colleges. The government rulers persecuted 
Israel and its Torah, since the death of Rabhi, and the perse- 
cutions did not stop until the death of Hillel, the last of his 
descendants, with whom the office of Nasi ceased to exist (360). 
This was alone one of the causes why the Talmud of Palestine 
spread less widely than its younger brother of Babylonia. The 
lot of the Talmud in Babylonia was better, since from the time 
of the death of Rabbi (223) till Mar b. R. Rah Ashi, one of the 
last of the Amoraim (500), it was not persecuted by the Persian 
rulers. For about a hundred years, the heads of the Exile were 
diligent in their studies, uniting thereunto its political power. 
If it sometimes happened that some kings were ill-disposed to 
the Jews, still they did not interfere with their studies.* For 
this reason the study of the Talmud flourished in the colleges 
of Sura, Nahardea and Pumbeditha, and the number of its 
students was counted by thousands. (The Talmud counts the 
auditors of Abba Arikha’s [Rabb’s] lectures as 12,000.) And so 
the Talmud became a vast sea, and its waves rose with might. 
R. Ashi (355-427) saw, therefore, that the time had come for 
revising, systematizing and concluding it, when he came to re- 
store the college of Sura (Matha Mekhasia), which had fallen 
into decay on the death of Rabh. 

About this R. Ashi it was said (Sanhedrin, p. 108) that from 
the time of Rabbi to his time there is not to be found a man who 
was unique in the possession of wisdom, riches and glory. He 





* See Getzow, ‘‘ Al Naharoth Babel.” 


22 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. : 


was in favor with King Izgadar II., rich and long-lived. There- 
fore, he undertook in the course of one year to systematize two 
tracts. Whether he arranged them in the order in which they 
are found in the Mishnayoth, or differently, or whether he re- 
vised and improved them, is not known to us; but this, at 
least, is clear, that some tracts he revised twice, and the second 
time in a manner opposite to the first.* Be this as it may, it is 
also certain that the Talmud which we possess is not that which 
came from R. Ashi’s hands, since additions by seven heads of 
the colleges who succeeded him in Sura, and by their colleagues, 
Meremar, Idi bar Abin, Nahman bar Huna, Tabyomi (Mar b. R. 
Ashi) his son, Rabba Tosphoah, Rabina bar Huna, Rabbana 
Jose, who presided together 125 years, are mentioned in the 
Talmud, none of which are found in R. Ashi’s edition. Perhaps 
they also made eliminations in his edition though they did not 
attain the learning and religious wisdom of R. Ashi, except his 
son, Tabyomi. The latter filled the place of his father in learn- 
ing and wisdom, though not in his breadth of view, for in his 
time reigned King Peros, the son of Izgadar III., who perse- 
cuted the Jews, the Talmud, and those who cherished it. 
Therefore, even if we suppose that his son Mar was diligent in 
arranging and revising the Talmud, as traces of his insertions 
and corrections are found in it, yet he did not succeed in com- 
pleting it, owing to the persecutions of the government, espe- 
cially as he did not occupy his office long, and thus the Talmud 
has remained uncorrected. But as the sages became aware that 
the times were changing, the number of learned men diminish- 
ing, they began to fear lest in the course of time, passages would 
multiply in the Talmud which would rather detract from than 
add to its value; therefore they concluded it, and decreed that 
thenceforth nothing should be added to it. They also ordered 
that the sages should no more be called “‘ Amoraim”’ (signify- 
ing commentators of the Mishna), but Saburaim (7.e., explainers 
of the Talmud to the people). Thus the Talmud was con- 
cluded in the age of Rabbana Jose (about 525), without further 
revision or rearranging. In reality, however, these sages 
achieved almost nothing; for, despite their decree, the Sobu- 
rites (as also many of its enemies) as well as the Gaonim and the 





* Vide ‘* Last Gate,” 356b. 








THE SOBURITES. 23 


rabbis succeeding them, added to and eliminated from it and 
altered in many places its version, as I. H. Weiss has proved 
beyond dispute and also we ourselves in our book “ L’baker 
Mishpat” and in the journal ‘‘ Hakol” many times, as will be 
mentioned further on. (See App. No. ro.) 


CHAPTER VI. 


THE PERSECUTIONS OF THE TALMUD IN THE PERSIAN AND BY- 
ZANTINE EMPIRES IN THE SIXTH CENTURY AFTER THE CLOSE 
OF THE TALMUD. 


In the reign of Kobad (Cabades) in Persia, a fanatic reformer 
named Mazdak desired to introduce the doctrine of the com- 
munity of property and wives, thus modifying the Zoroastrian 
creed (sor). The king became an adherent of the new doc- 
trine and decreed its acceptance by the people. The lower 
classes eagerly availed themselves of the license thus granted. 
To this communism, the Jews, led by Mar Zutra II., son of R. 
Huna, the young exilarch, offered an armed resistance. The 
occasion of the revolt was the murder of Mar Isaac, president 
of one of the colleges. It is related that they established an 
independent Jewish state, having for king the Prince of Cap- 
tivity, with Machuza as the capital. At last, after seven years, 
Mar Zutra and his grandfather, Mar Chanina, were taken 
prisoners, executed, and their bodies nailed to the cross on the 
bridge of Machuza (about 520). On account of the ensuing 
persecutions the office of Exilarch remained for some time in 
abeyance. The colleges were closed, as the teachers were com- 
pelled to conceal themselves, and Abuna and Giza, two of the 
most eminent, fled. When peace was restored after Kobad’s 
death, the college at Sura received Giza as president, and that 
at Pumbeditha, Semuna. A third name of eminence survives, 
that of Rabbi or Rab (near Nahardea), of whom little is known. 
Men of religious mind of the period devoted themselves to the 
study of the Talmud, the love for which persecution had but in- 
creased, which satisfied religious zeal and promoted tran- 
quillity of mind, and the knowledge of which raised its possessor 
to positions of honor and trust. 

The original development of the Talmud had at that period 


24 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


ceased. Giza and Semuna conceived the desire to fix the laws 
for practical use, casting aside theoretical speculation, for it 
was necessary that there be no doubts or wavering. Their 
activity in this work was but a continuation of that which had 
begun at the close of the Talmud. The labors of the presidents 
of the colleges were confined to this task and to assembling, as 
of old, the disciples in Adar (March) and Ellul (September) and 
instructing them by lectures, and to assigning themes for pri- 
vate study. To fix the laws, the arguments pro and con needed 
to be weighed ; therefore they were called Sabureans (Saburai). 
Many points of practice in the ritual, the civil law, and the mar- 
riage code were settled at this period. 

Giza and Semuna gave chief attention to committing the 
Talmud to writing, making use of oral traditions and of notes 
made to aid the memory by various individuals. All legends 
were incorporated, and the obscure passages elucidated by their 
additions, for everything emanating from the Amoraim was 
thought important. In this form it has reached us. The 
vowel points to the Bible were also invented at this time, ac- 
cording to Graetz. 

“The names of the immediate successors of Giza and Se- 
muna have not been preserved either by chronicles or tradi- 
tion’’—forgotten in the persecution visited on the colleges dur- 
ing this century by both Christian and Zoroastrian churches. 

Hormisdas IV., Chosroes Nushirvan’s son, was unlike his 
father. Led by the Magi, who strove to check the approach- 
ing dissolution of their religion by persecution of the adher- 
ents of other faiths, he vented his wrath upon the Jews and 
Christians of his empire. The Talmudical colleges at Sura and 
Pumbeditha were closed, and again many teachers fled (about 
581) this time to Firuzshabar, where, under an Arabian gov- 
ernor, they were less exposed to espionage. New colleges arose 
there, among which that of Mari was eminent, and there they 
continued their Talmudic labors. A general, Babram Tshubin, 
who had experienced the ingratitude of the king, usurped the 
Persian throne. In this.he was assisted by the Jews with 
money and men, and in return granted them many favors and 
concessions. Asa result, the colleges of Sura and Pumbeditha 
were reopened; Chanan of Iskia returned from Firuzshabar to 
Pumbeditha, and restored the college there; it is also probable 








HORMISDAS IV. 25 


that the president of Sura, which was of far greater repute, was 
elected at that time, though his name is not mentioned in the 
chronicles. , 

With Babram’s fall the vengeance of the lawful heir to the 
throne, Prince Chosru, was visited on the Jews. With the aid 
of the Byzantine emperor, Mauritius, and the loyal portion of 
the Persian people, he defeated the usurper, putting to the 
sword also the greater part of the Jewish population of Machuza, 
and probably of other cities as well. 


CHAPTER VII. 


THE EIGHTH CENTURY. THE DOMINION OF THE GAONIM. THE 
OPPOSITION OF THE KARAITES. THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A 
SECT OF THAT NAME. 


The Pharisees had been victorious over the Sadducees and 
the other sects opposed to the Oral Law, but had not annihil- 
ated them entirely; since only because these latter could not 
withstand them, they kept silence and were discontented in 
their hearts. As the Talmud gained strength and became more 
severe in its decrees against the Sadducees and Samaritans, so 
that in the end the Kuthim were declared as idolaters in all 
respects, then their indignation burned and they awaited a 
favorable time for revenge. In the time of the dominance of 
the Gaonim, who carried out the Talmud in practice, the meas- 
ure became full, and Anan, the nephew of the Gaon at Sura, 
when he was not elected as Gaon, for the reason of his liberal 
ideas and his opposition to the Talmud, established the Karaite 
sect. 

Those who hold that the Karaites were a new sect founded 
by Anan (760 C.E.), are mistaken, for a small sect under the 
name of Karaites, or adherents of the Text, had existed already 
in the days of the Talmud, where they are mentioned in many 
places, as ‘‘adherents of the Text,’’ or once “the Karaites add”’ 
(Pesachim, 117a in text; in our edition, Vol. V., p. 145). 
Doubtless the remainder of the Sadducees assumed this name, 
having lost political influence since they had been vanquished, 
and the word “‘Sadducees” being hated by the people. There- 
fore the remains of the sect called themselves “ Karaites,’’ 7.e. 


26 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


those who occupy themselves with the text of Scripture, and 
endeavor to understand its real meaning. Owing to their 
small numbers, or to the lack of a great man to head them, this 
sect kept secret its hatred of the Talmud, though it existed so 
long as to outlive even the close of the latter, and the Talmudic 
sages paid no attention to them. Finally, however, chance gave 
them a man fit to be their leader, who publicly opposed the 
Talmud so that all its enemies made one league against it, and 
they were at first a great power; and in the course of 700 years 
they did not cease to persecute the Talmud and almost des- 
stroyed it; finally, however, they lost their influence which 
they never regained, and to-day are decayed so that small 
numbers only live in Austria, Crimea, and many other places 
in Russia, numbering in all to-day no more than 4,000 or 5,000 
souls altogether. 

This man was Anan ben David, nephew of the exilarch 
Solomon, in Bagdad, who had died childless. Anan expected 
to be elected as his successor, but his younger brother was 
chosen instead, and he was rejected because of his liberal ideas 
and want of sympathy with the Talmud. Then he publicly 
began to make war on the Talmud and Talmudists, and became 
the head of all its opponents and ill-wishers. He made his 
headquarters at Jerusalem, after having been, it seems, obliged 
to leave Babylonia. There he assumed the title of exilarch, 
and around him were assembled a great multitude who made 
war on the Oral Law, its scholars, and in particular on the two 
colleges of Sura and Pumbeditha. 

_ By his general precept, “‘Search well in the Scriptures,’”’ he 
declared as naught the whole Oral Law. And wishing to find 
favor in the eyes of the Caliphs, who fixed the dates of their 
festivals by observation of the new moon, he also renewed this 
' custom, once in force among the Jews while the Temple had ex- 
isted, repealing thus the calculation of R. Adda received among 
all Talmudists. He openly said to the Caliph Almanzur that 
the Jews had been guilty of persecuting Jesus and opposing 
Mahomet, though (said he) both these men did much to drive 
idolatry out of existence, and cannot be attacked without guilt. 
Of the first he said that he had been a holy man who did not 
want to appear as a prophet, or a god, but only desired to re- 
form the faith which the Pharisees had perverted. Of the sec- 








THE KARAITES. 27 


ond he said that he really was a prophet for the Arabs, only he 
does not believe that the Law (of Moses) is repealed by Mahom- 
medanism. 

His first work was to separate himself from the Jews by fix- 
ing the date of Pentecost to be fifty days after the first Sabbath 
after Passover, as the Sadducees fixed it formerly. The dates 
of New Year and the Day of Atonement, Passover and the 
Feast of Booths were determined by watching for the new 
moon, which did not agree with the Jewish dates. As in the 
leap year one month is added to the year, he allowed, in case of 
need, to begin Passover when barley is ripe in the fields. The 
Phylacteries (not a grave ceremony among the Jews, at any 
rate), the four species of the Lulab and the semi-holiday Han- 
uka (Dedication), he abolished. On the other hand he made 
the observation of Sabbath more burdensome, so that the light- 
ing of candles was prohibited on the eve of Sabbath, even by a 
non-Jew, also the leaving of one’s house during Sabbath when 
most neighbors are not Jews, 7.¢. Karaites; the dietary laws 
he also made stricter, so as to prohibit his adherents eating in 
company with Jews for the latter are not careful enough and 
oftentimes eat with Gentiles. 

Soon Anan saw that if every one were left to interpret the Bibli- 
cal text according to his own mind, etc., his sect would be split, 
and not endure (as actually was the case in the course of time, 
as will be explained further on), and that a fixed commentary 
is needed at least for those passages which can by no means be 
interpreted literally. Therefore he claimed many great authori- 
ties, long deceased, as Karaites, and declared that R. Fehuda b. 
Tabai, the colleague of Simeon b. Shetah, etc. Shamai the elder, 
the colleague of Hillel the Elder, and other such, were some of 
the founders of their sect, and he ascribed to them some inter- 
pretations of passages which he claimed to have received by 
tradition from them. ‘‘ Abandon the Talmud and Mishna,” he 
said to his followers, “‘and I will make you a Talmud of my own, 
according to the traditions I have.” Though in reality he took 
the rules of the Mishna as basis, yet he said that as far as details 
are concerned he is as wise as the sages of the Mishna, or more 
so, and can construe the Biblical texts by his own intellect. 

His hatred of the Talmud became so great that he said that 
if he could have swallowed the Talmud, he would cast himself 


28 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


into a lime-kiln, that it might be burned with him and leave no 
vestige of its existence. Thus the people of Israel separated 
itself then into two hostile hosts. The Talmudists declared the 
Karaites not to be Jews, and forbade to give them any holy 
ceremony to perform, while the Karaites said of the followers 
of the rabbis that they are Jewish sinners, and it is sinful to 
intermarry with them. The city of Jerusalem witnessed for 
the third time a splitting of Israel into parties. 

Of Anan’s writing we know nothing, although according to 
the Karaites he wrote some comments on the Bible and prayers. 
From the compositions imputed by them to him, we can see 
that only the love of resistance and victory absorbed him; how 
great his learning was we can not judge, as in general his biog- 
raphy is unknown to us, but it is known that he was not given 
to philosophy, nor ingenious in interpreting Scripture. One 
good effect we can ascribe to him, that, owing to his opposition, 
the Talmudic rabbis were also forced to pay more attention to 
the Scriptures, and make researches and learn the niceties of 
the Hebrew language, so that Anan and his sect were the prime 
cause of all the compositions on grammar, Massorah and vowel 
points, and even poetic compositions that the Talmudists gave 
birth to in the course of time. 

After Anan’s death Saul, his son, succeeded him as exilarch 
of the Karaites, but Anan’s disciples separated from him, as 
they did not agree with him about some ceremonies, according 
ing to Saul’s interpretation of biblical passages. They became 
a distinct sect calling themselves Ananites; so it also happened 
after the death of Saul, who was succeeded by Josiah, his son. 
And so almost every age sprang a new Karaite sect with a name 
of its own, each interpreting Scripture in its own way. Some 
of them will be mentioned presently. It is self-evident that 
an attempt to get at the profound meaning of the Scriptures 
was the business of every such sect; through their activity the 
knowledge of Hebrew grammar, of Massorah, the vowel-points 
and punctuation marks, was diffused ; theological philosophizing 
was also not strange to some Karaites, as they had to explain 
such words as God’s ‘‘hand,”’ ‘“‘eye,”’ ‘“‘finger,”” which they were 
unwilling to take literally and materialize God, just as the other 
Jews. Thus gradually a large literature sprang among the Kara- 
ites, not inferior, taken as a whole, to the Talmud itself in bulk. 








THE KARAITES. 29 


At all events, the Talmud was menaced by a much greater 
danger from these internal enemies than from its external foes. 
For the latter did not attack the Talmud itself, except so far as 
it was an obstacle in their way, but their main and avowed ob- 
ject was to convert the Fews to another religion, or even merely 
to fill their own pockets with Jewish gold, given to avert the 
persecution instigated for that very purpose. The Talmud was 
then attacked only incidentally, not for its sake, while the main 
object was something else. 

But the Karaites made it their great aim to drive the Tal- 
mud itself out of existence, to direct their arrows against it for 
its own sake, and endeavored to bring about, that the Jews 
should become Christians, or Mussulmans, or join any sect 
whatever, the Karaites did not care which, provided that the 
Jews should forsake the hateful Talmud, and its Halakhas and 
Hagadas should get lost. Therefore the struggle with them was 
very great, especially as they pretended that their traditions 
were based on the great authorities of the remnants of the 
nation. 

As their doctrines, however, were not fixed, and as almost 
every age the Karaites were split into diverse sects, therefore 
they could not resist or make headway against the Talmud, 
whose strength is, to those who rightly understand it, that it 
has never purposed to make fixed rules, to last for all ages; 
deliberation and reasoning concerning the Halakhas according 
to the circumstances, is the principle of the Talmud; and the 
saying of the Talmud, “even when they say to you of right that 
it is left, and of left that it is r7ght, thou shalt not swerve from 
the commandment,” shows the opinion of the Talmud, that the 
practice of the ceremonies and precepts is dependent on the 
time, place and other circumstances. With this power the 
Talmud combatted all its enemies, and was victorious. 

The controversies between the Jews and the Karaites are 
recorded in many books, Karaite and Talmudistic, from the age 
of R. Saadia the Gaon, and his opponent Sahal ben Matzliah to 
the present time. In them can also be found the history of 
their alternate triumphs. But this is not our task here: we 
will remark only that from the days of R. Saadiah the Gaon, 
when the Rabbis had begun to have polemics with them, can be 
seen the deep mark the Karaite literature left on the Rabbinical 


30 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


‘one. Philosophy was from that time used in conjunction with 
the Torah; many Gaonim followed R. Saadiah’s method of har- 
monizing the Torah and the philosophy of that time, that they 
should seem as mutual enemies. So the Karaites charged such 
men with infidelity, but others were themselves compelled to 
imitate them, and called in the aid of philosophy, of the divin- 
ity, to interpret the texts of the Holy Scriptures. 

The effect of the Karaites on the Talmudist Rabbis is made 
evident also in this: that since their time the rabbis also began 
to write down fixed Halakhas taken from the Talmud, that the 
readers should not otherwise by error adopt the Karaite rules, 
made by the Karaite leaders, which they might mistake for the 
rules of the Talmud itself, since they could not know the whole 
Talmud by heart. They composed, therefore, the ‘ Hala- 
khoth G’doloth” (Great Halakhas), “Sh’iltoth’derab A’hai”’ 
(Queries of R. Ahai), for the sake of the students, who could not 
themselves wade through the whole Talmud. But thereby 
they opposed the spirit and object of the Talmud itself, that the 
Halakhas should be matter for discussion, and modified in ac- 
cordance with the requirements of the time and place. As soon 
as the Gaonim had permitted to propound decisions of the 
Halakhas, and to fix them, those Gaonim, who succeeded them, 
were compelled to teach that these decisions of the former 
Gaonim, even though given without proofs, are holy for the 
people, as if given from Mount Sinai. This circumstance added 
fuel to the quarrel of the Karaites, and gave them new points of 
attack. The hope of some great men of the nation to reconcile 
the Jews with the Karaites became naught, for although the 
Karaites quarrelled among themselves, and split into rival sects, 
yet they all equally hated the Talmud, reviled it, and insulted 
it, styling the two colleges, at Sura and Pumbeditha, “‘the two 
harlots”’ spoken of in Ezekiel, who (claimed they) referred to 
these colleges in his prophecy. 

According to Makrizi there were among the Karaites ten 
sects, differing from each other in their opinions, practice and 
festivals; they had no permanence, some rose, some fell, and in 
the tenth century only five large sects were found, named: 

1. Jod’anim or Jodganim. 

2. Makrites or Magrites. 

3. Akhbarites. 











THE KARAITES. 31 


4. Abn Amronites or Tiflisites. 

5. Balbekites. 

The reader will find in the books of Jost, Gratz, Fiirst, 
Geiger, and in Hebrew, in “ Bequoreth L’toldoth Hakaraim”’ 
an account of the particulars about which the various sects of 
the Karaites differed, and also the names of their leaders. We 
do not think it necessary to give these details in this place. We 
will mention for illustration the latest sect, which wished to fix 
the day of Atonement only on a Saturday every year, because 
it is said ‘‘ Sabbath Sabbathan,”’ which means a Sabbath of rest 
(Lev. xxiii. 32), and they translate ‘‘a Sabbath of Sabbaths,”’ 
and the first day of Passover on Thursday. Thus each Karaite 
sect celebrated the Biblical festivals on different days, for each 
sect construed the texts in the Pentateuch by preference with- 
out being able to come to an agreement. Thus also in respect 
of the observation of Sabbath: for some Karaites, their houses 
were during the Sabbath their prisons, where they did sit in 
darkness, and which they could not leave when their neigh- 
bors happened not to be Karaites like themselves. In this we 
see the power of the Talmud, that even those who were inimical 
to it or hostile to a large portion of it, Halakhas never had dif- 
ferent opinions concerning the festivals and other such things, 
important to one particular nation; for they could not deny its 
general tradition. 

The effects of Karaism are also traceable in some religious 
practices, which had not been usual among the people of ancient 
times. Thus Phylacteries, which it had not been customary 
to use, in spite of the literal interpretation of the Talmud of the 
passage “and thou shalt bind them for a sign upon thy hand, 
and they shall be as frontlets between thine eyes,” (Deut. vi. 8) ; 
perhaps for the reason that Hillel had said: “Leave Israel 
alone; if they are not prophets, they are children of prophets,”’ 
(Pesachim) ; for after all, the arguments of the Talmud in favor 
of the literalness of that passage, the people felt.that it was only 
a figurative expression; and the Talmud itself prohibited the 
use of phylacteries to the people, permitting it only to con- 
firmed scholars. But when the Karaites interpreted the pas- 
sage figuratively, the Gaonim permitted the use of Tephilin to 
the people also, to show their difference from the Karaites. 

The opposition of the Karaites effected also that the 


32 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


Gaonim should declare that the Hagada of the Talmud is not 
obligatory to believe for any man; and that it is not to be 
taken literally, but as allegorical. “Leave to every one the 
right to hold what opinions he chooseth about the Hagada of 
the Talmud” says R. Samuel b. Hopni, father-in-law to Hai 
Gaon, to ward off the attacks of the Karaites and opponents of 
the Talmud generally, who made it responsible for many Hagadic 
things cautioned in it. And indeed we see that the collections 
of Halakhas from the Talmud, as Rab Alphasi and his col- 
leagues inserted but little of the Hagada, as if to show that the 
Hagadas are not minded. Though in truth the Hagadas of the 
Talmud relating to morality are the main element of the Tal- 
mud, mostly require no change, addition, or subtraction, even 
in our age. While on the other hand, the absence of the ethics 
of the Talmudic Hagada is painfully felt in Karaite literature to 
the present day. In points of morality their opinions are as 
various as concerning the Halakhas, in the course of time issued 
from the Karaite ascetics who abstained from meat and wine, 
left their homes, dwelt in deserts, and mourned over the de- 
struction of Jerusalem. The Karaites styled them “the sixty 
heroes who are around Solomon’s bed,”’ for there were sixty in 
number, and called them the great teachers, for they had been 
taught by them that it is not legal to eat meat in exile, since a 
text says one should not slaughter outside the camp. In con- 
trast with these, from among the Karaites came also Hiri 
Hakalhi or Habalki who, owing to his opposition to the Tal- | 
mud, denied also Moses’ Torah, providence, creation, etc., so 
that the Karaites repulsed him also. There were among them 
also some who believed in a material God, eating something of 
the sacrifices, and enjoying the agreeable flavor of them. Such 
was the destiny of those who rejected tradition, and relied on 
their own intellect. 

The issue was that, though among the Karaites were also 
great men and-great sects—and many times they triumphed 
over the Talmudists for centuries—the following peculiarities 
made them a sect secluded from the whole world (especially 
from the Rabbis, who were to them as if unclean) ; their scrupu- 
lousness about cleanliness and uncleanliness, their separation 
from anybody who was not a Karaite Jew, so as not to take 
from him bread and other articles of the bakery, and so as not 








THE KARAITES. 33 


to eat anything that had been touched by a non-Jew (some 
prohibited even meat fit for a sacrifice). Gradually their num- 
bers diminished, so that now they number only about four 
thousand souls in the world, and even these few differ among 
themselves in their usages and festivals. To this day the 
Karaites in Egypt and the East remain in the dark during the 
eve of Sabbath; the dates of their festivals are not alike every 
year, and by their attacks on the Talmud they not only failed 
to weaken its influence or diminish the number of its adherents, 
but brought about its increased influence and accepted holiness. 
Though the Rabbis kept apart from them, and said to those 
who wished to make peace between them, “the Karaites (or 
torn pieces, Kraim Kra’im), never became joined,’’ still they did 
not forbear to borrow from them what seemed to them good, 
adopting the Massorah and vowel points of Ben Asher, who 
was one of them. 

About the Judaized Chazars, of their time, the Karaites say 
that they had the Karaite form of Judaism, but modern scholars 
contradict this. They say that the Chazars were Talmudic 
Jews and A. B. Gottlober has written admirably about this 
subject. His argument seems‘to savor of the truth. But 
there is no doubt, that among the Jewish tribes of Arabia, and 
those of the Judaized Arabian kingdom, there were Talmudic 
Jews who rendered many services to the Jews of the Byzantine 
empire; but as these matters do not pertain to our subject, we 
will not speak further of them, and conclude hereby the present 
chapter. (See App. at the end of this volume.) 


CHAPTER VIII. 
ISLAM AND ITS INFLUENCE ON THE TALMUD. 


In 622, the Hebrew religion gave birth to a second daughter, 
Mohammedanism—founded by Mahomet of Mecca among the 
tribes of Arabia, who had lived unprogressive for ages in the 
large peninsula between the Red Sea and the Persian Gulf, 
keeping by the usages received from their ancestors tradition- 
ally. Hundreds of years had passed without making any 
impression on the development of this people, until Mahom- 
med arose, and in the space of twenty years subdued with the 


3 


34 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


sword and by the tongue the whole great land of Arabia. And 
like a stream of mighty waters the Arabs burst from their 
bonds, animated by a spirit of war, and fired by religious 
zeal, tore away from the Byzantine empire the whole of Syria 
and Egypt, and conquered also Persia, extended their em- 
pire to India and Caucasus, on the one hand, and to West- . 
ern Africa, on the other, spreading, at last, over Spain and 
Southern Italy to the heart of Christendom, preaching Islam, 
and bearing the banner of their prophet wherever they stepped. 

For the second time, after an interval of six hundred years, 
Judaism witnessed a new faith born, all whose choice portions, 
all whose good and beauty, were taken from the storehouse of 
the Talmudic Hagada. When Mahomet arose to say that 
through Gabriel, the angel, the Lord had destined him to con- 
firm the truth of the Divine revelation previously to Abraham, 
Isaac and Jacob, Moses and the rest of the saints who had been 
on earth, he borrowed only the foundation of his idea from 
the Hagada of the Talmud. Likewise he borrowed many say- 
ings, traditions, and historic legends from the same source, and 
these materials served him as the foundation of the principles 
he prescribed for the guidance of his people. All the Hebrew 
plants succeeded speedily on the Arabian soil, as if they had 
been native. 

Islam grew in power and soon made progress, political and 
ecclesiastical, for new forces joined it. It reared a new civiliza- 
tion on the ruins of the heathen culture of Syria. During the 
first century of its existence it likewise exercised an influence 
on the scholars of the Talmud. As the Greek spirit had for- 
merly been wedded to the Jewish spirit, so now the Arabian 
was wedded to it. It might have supplanted Jewish thought 
altogether had not the many sages, adherents of the Talmud, 
written excellent books in Arabic, extolling the Talmud, its 
system and its spirit. 

When the Jewish tribes of Arabia, some of these powerful 
and independent, had refused to believe in the inspiration of 
the new prophet, Islam arose on its parent Judaism, as Chris- 
tianity had done before; persecutions, massacres, blood and 
fire and exile were visited on the adherents of the Talmud. 
As long as Mahomet had entertained the hope of gaining 
' Jews for converts, his treatment of them was favorable and 





ISLAM AND ITS INFLUENCE. ~— 35 


he enjoined in the Koran not to be inimical to adorers of 
One God. He even wanted to make the date of the fast of 
Rhamadan on the tenth of Tishri (the Day of Atonement), as 
well as to make Jerusalem the centre of the pilgrims instead of 
Mecca. Perceiving, however, that notwithstanding all this, 
Islam gained few Jewish converts, he turned the enemy of the 
Jews and became wroth against them (“ The Vision of the Cow”’ ; 
a chapter in the Koran) and persecuted them with fury and 
bloodthirstiness as infidels. But at his death his hatred and 
intolerance died with him, the Jews found peace and protection 
under the Caliphs, and the Gaonim could establish their col- 
leges. When Spain was added in 711 by the General Torick 
Aben Zara, bright days ensued for the Jews; they were able to 
devote themselves to spiritual activity undisturbed, also to 
take a large part in the culture of science which flourished in 
Spain. Great offices and high posts were given to Talmudic 
Jews; councillors, authors of law articles, court physicians 
and ministers were taken from among them. Together with 
their civic prosperity their spiritual activity made progress, 
and they made great contributions to Judaism, and benefited 
their co-religionists. Rarely were they visited by storms, as in 
Granada, in 1603, and at Cordova, in 1157, and then they suf- 
fered ofily as citizens. 

In Egypt, Syria, Fez and Morocco, wherever Islam domi- 
nated, Jewish communities flourished. In contrast to this, the 
study of the Torah decayed in the East, and from Babylonia it 
changed its place to Spain. 

The prosperity and the power of the Jews called forth envy 
and opposition, resulting in the desertion of some Jews to 
Islam; and this spirit of opposition was kindled yet more by 
false Messiahs arising frequently, as Shiraini in 720 and Abu 
Eiei in 1464, in the reign of the Caliph Merian, who op- 
posed themselves to the Talmud with all their might (the last 
abolished also divorce). In spite of all that, the Talmud was 
honored as before. . For the Gaonim and the two colleges at 
Sura and Pumbeditha were as beacons to all the exiled Jews till 
the second half of the tenth century. Only a singular accident, 
which happened about 960, put an end to this unlimited and 
undivided dominion of Babylonia over the Jewish minds. Four 
scholars had left Sura with the purpose of collecting money 


36 _ THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


among their European brethern, for the benefit of encouraging 
a more assiduous study of the Talmud at the college of Sura; 
the vessel being captured by an Arab pirate, the four sages 
were sold as slaves. One, R. Shemariah b. El’hanan was then 
brought to Alexandria; there the Jewish community ransomed 
him, and appointed him as supervisor of religion and teacher of 
the Talmud in Cairo. The second, R. Hushiel, was sold into 
slavery at the African coast, and brought to Kairuban. The 
third, R. Moses b. Enoch was ransomed from his owners after 
many hardships, at Cordova, where the community chose him 
as Rabbi. The name of the fourth has not transpired. It is 
possible that he reached France. The four men, not having 
attained their object of collecting money for Sura, and its 
college having been closed seven hundred years after its founda- 
tion, brought to an-end the spiritual dominion of Babylonia 
over the Jewish mind and scattered the seeds of Talmudic 
study throughout all lands. 

The college of Pumbeditha, though it continued to exist for 
some period after that of Sura, spreading the light of the 
Torah among all the exiled, sank from its preéminent rank, 
gradually, till its existence came to an end (about 1040). With 
it was extinguished the light of the Gaonim. From that time 
the centre of religious activity for the Jews was in Europe. 
The Talmud had its home in Spain, whence it spread to other 
countries, as will be seen in the coming chapters. 


CHAPTER IX. 


THE VICTORY OF KARAISM OVER THE SPIRITUAL DOMINION OF 
THE TALMUD AND THE MIND OF THE JEWISH NATION—THE 
LAST GAONIM AT SURA AND PUMBEDITHA—THE CENTRE OF 
TALMUDIC STUDY TRANSFERRED FROM MESOPOTAMIA TO 
SPAIN—-THE SCHOLARS OF KAIRUBAN—THE PERIOD OF THE 
GREATEST DIFFUSION OF TALMUDIC STUDY. 


Though Rabbinism came out victorious from the struggle 
with Karaism, it can not be denied that in one respect the latter 
triumphed. The unlimited dominion which the Talmudic 
spirit of the colleges of Sura and Pumbeditha had at that time 
on the minds of the nation of Israel in general in all places of 





SHERIRA, HAI, BEN HOPHNI. 37 


their abode—this spiritual dominion waned greatly. The 
glory of these colleges irresistibly declined, in spite of all efforts 
to the contrary, even of a supreme man like Saadiah the Gaon. 
The spirit of investigation and free thought at Bagdad induced 
the disciples, to whom the religious teachings of their master 
Saadiah gave the example, to engage in the study of philosophy, 
grammar and the interpretations of the text of the Scripture,and 
to abandon the hard and exhausting studies of Sura. A slight 
cause, the voyage of the four scholars mentioned above to 
Europe, sufficed to hasten the end of this college, which did 
not exist long after the death of R. Saadiah the Gaon, so that 
it was closed forever after centuries of its existence. 

The college at Pumbeditha continued some time longer; it 
put forth its last efforts, before the lights of its Gaonim and 
Exilarchs were extinguished, before the glory and religious and 
spiritual pre-eminence of Babylon departed from there to 
honor Spain; and as the light of a candle blazes up before it is 
extinguished, so there shone on the Babylonian horizon three 
Gaonim, Sherira b. Hanina, Hai his son, and Samuel b. Hophni 
the father-in-law of the latter (960-1038). The activity of 
these men in the field of Talmudic literature persists and exer- 
cise their influence yet. 

R. Sherira placed the Talmudic studies too much above all 
other studies, whereas in the college at Sura, in accordance with 
the spirit of Saadiah the Gaon, the sciences also stood in the 
first rank of studies and a critical spirit reigned in studying 
Scripture and in commenting on the Talmud. At Pumbeditha 
the Talmud was the only dish offered to the students, the only 
subject of the curriculum. R. Sherira was the first who fear- 
lessly taught and said: “‘ The utterances of the Gaonim require 
no demonstration; whoso rebels against their decisions, rebels 
against God and betrays His Torah.” His book “ Megilath 
Stharim” (Scroll of Mysteries), which was undoubtedly writ- 
ten in this autocratic spirit, is lost. But, on the other hand, he 
has bequeathed to us a fragment which enlightens us at present, 
being the chief basis of all Jewish literary and theological his- 
tory. This is the letter he sent to the congregation of Kairuban, 
termed ‘‘R. Sherira’s Epistle,” which treats of the history of 
the Talmud and of the Gaonim and is the key to the otherwise 
mysterious history of that epoch. From this letter only can 


5 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


we take the essential information for arranging the history 
from the close of the Talmud to his time. Without this docu- 
ment many and important periods, from the time of the Macca- 
bees to those of the Gaonim, over a thousand years, would 
remain to us obscure and unknown. ‘The epistle is wonder- 
fully accurate in respect to chronology, and is free from any 
bias. Only by means of it, and of other compositions of this 
class, as the Megilath Taanith (Scroll of Fasts), Seder Olam ~ 
(Order of the World), the Sedar Tanaim and Amoraim, together 
with the remnants of information of R. Nathan bar Izhak the 
Babylonian (956) concerning the colleges at Sura and Pumbe- 
ditha, and the methods of study at their time, can the modern 
scholar compile the known histories, so very necessary to the 
understanding of the Talmud and its literature. 
R. Hai, his son, was indeed more inclined towards the 
sciences than his father. He was proficient in Arabic learning. 
Nor was he averse to philosophic studies. He opposed himself 
with all his might against speculations about the hypothesis of 
religion. In theological and Talmudical knowledge, R. Hai 
surpassed all his colleagues and stood alone in his age. From 
Northern Africa and Spain, whither sparks of Talmudic literary 
activity had just penetrated and kindled, came to him questions 
in great number. He replied to them in Arabic or in Hebrew; 
the spirit of reconciliation between philosophy and theology is 
in all his answers. His list of Hebrew roots, commentaries on 
‘the Mishna, and compositions examining Scriptures exist 
mostly no longer, and only fragments of Talmudic Jurisprud- 
ence, as laws of buying and selling, of oaths, etc., which he 
attempted to methodize in verse are preserved. So also is 
ascribed to him a didactic poem entitled “‘Musar Haschel”’ 
(Morality of Reason) very excellent in its thoughts, matter, and 
intention (purpose, aim, conception), albeit we can not extole 
the style or the poetic form. At all events this R. Hai, the last 
of the Gaonim is the first of all Talmudic scholars even at this 
day, and his words are oracular for all commentators and all 
‘those who decide Halakhas according to the Talmud. 

His father-in-law, Samuel b. Hophni, held of the same 
opinions as he, but was more free in his criticism of the Scrip- 
tures than all his colleagues. Of his many works only frag- 
ments (which originally written in Arabic, we have in the 





THE SAGES OF KAIRUBAN. 39 


Hebrew garb) of his commentaries to the Scriptures remain. 
But his compositions about Halakhas and essentials of religion 
are all lost, and only their names survive. The fundamental 
principle of this thinker was: ‘Things opposed to human 
common sense should not be admitted.”” He combated vio- 
lently also the Karaites and was attacked desperately, as they 
mocked and scoffed at him and even wrote satiric Hebrew 
poems about him. 

Those three were the last of those remaining at these col- 
leges, and at their death the sources of wisdom in Babylonia 
were stopped off. After the decease of ben Hophni (about 
1034) the college at Sura was abolished, and two years after 
the death of R. Hai (1640) the college of Pumbeditha was 
closed. The wisdom of Israel removed to North Africa (Kairu- 
ban) and Spain and bore fair fruit there. 

The city Kairuban had a great reputation. In an antique 
commentary, imputed toa disciple of R. Saadiah the Gaon, this 
city is mentioned as “‘the city of great sages.” As is known, 
one of the four above-mentioned rabbis, R. Hushiel, who with 
his colleagues had been voyaging to collect money for the col- 
lege of Sura, was cast thither. All four introduced mental 
activity in all places they visited. R. Hananel, the son of R. 
Hushiel, succeeded to his position (in 1050) and surpassed his 
father in wisdom and in energy. He bequeathed to us frag- 
ments of commentaries on Scriptures and the Talmud, which 
were of great help to the study in the conditions at that time, 
when Talmudic activity was diffused among Jews. He and 
his contemporary, Nisim b. Jacob, who also resided in Kairuban, 
renewed the youth of the Palestinian Talmud, which had been 
neglected. Especially did the latter contribute to bring about 
this. He also issued the book ‘‘Maphteah”’ (Key) for several 
tracts of the Babylonian Talmud and in it he cast light on many 
difficult passages in the Palestinian Talmud by comparing the 
two Talmuds. 

R. Hananel also wrote a commentary on the Talmud, which 
was published in separate parts. Therein he explains the sub- 
ject and meaning of the words in Hebrew, and draws a parallel 
between the Babylonian and Palestinian Talmud. He wrote, 
also a book containing abstracts arranged in Talmudic order of 
the Halakhas, concerning service and pecuniary matters. 


40 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


A careful examination of the books of the two men will show 
that they were in unison with their opinions with Saadiah the 
Gaon, and diffused his teaching and ideas among the Jews. 
Friendship existed between these two men and Hai and the 
learned men of Spain, as is seen from their large correspondence. 
There is also a third one of the sages of Kairuban, who contrib- 
uted to the study of the Talmud, he is Hephetz b. Jatzbiah, 
held in great esteem by his contemporaries, and upon whom all 
titles of honor that great men receive were bestowed. Of his 
works nothing is known except the name ‘‘Sepher Hephetz”’ 
(the book of Hephetz or Desirable book) which he wrote as a 
commentary to the ‘‘ books of duties.” 

The sages of Kairuban witnessed the end of the two colleges 
and the extinction of the Gaonim, but also the flourishing of 
Jewish literature in Spain, whither it had been spread from 
Northern Africa. After the decease of these learned men the 
glory of Kairuban became also extinct, and Jewish intellectual 
activity left the East and emigrated to the West. 

An examination of the literary period after the death of the 
Gaonim shows that it surpassed by far the preceding period. 
Whereas, in the time of the Exilarchs and the Gaonim, only the 
Talmud had been the subject chiefly studied and only to it had 
contributions been made which helped to perpetuate the spirit 
of Judaism. Now, when Jewish learning removed to Spain and 
Southern France, it blossomed and became split into many 
branches, to each of which many good books were contributed. 
On the study of the Scriptures shone forth the light of free 
criticism; the studies of Masorah reached perfection; grammar 
and linguistic researches came to the front rank; the Talmud 
and Midrash, long ago concluded, were subjected to the analysis 
of commentaries and abridged into systematic abstracts. The 
basis of the philosophic conception of the Jewish faith was laid; 
and religious and ritual poems succeeded, when treated by the 
sublimely inspired Spanish poets. A broader and deeper com- 
prehension of the Talmud was also the result of the intellectual 
awakening. It is true that the cause of this intellectual activity 
were the Arabs, while the polemics with the Karaites enhanced 
it, and made it penetrate through the wall of Judaism; but, 
taken up by the Jews, it made progress and continued to do so 
even when both Arabs and Karaites had abandoned knowledge 





THE GOLDEN AGE OF JEWISH LEARNING. § 41 


altogether. This spiritual awakening caused even the re- 
motest branch of Israelite stock, from which almost all life had 
fled, to bloom up and to awake to new life. Even the small 
community of Samaritans, whose existence had been quite for- 
gotten, came to life and took part in the Jewish culture. The 
book of ‘‘ Joshua”’ of the Samaritans, the ‘‘ Reminiscences of 
Abul-Pathah’’ (a historical treatise of these events), the Samari- 
tan version of the Pentateuch, and the Arabic version of the 
Scriptures by Abu-Laid appeared at this time. Also fragments 
of ritual composition there are a few left of many, but their 
value is small and they are not as ancient as had been at first 
thought. On the new Jewish literature the Samaritan sect 
never made any impression; but the intellectual movement 
of the Jews involved also the remnant of the Samaritans and 
aroused it from its slumber. But in the time of the Gaonim, 
when the bearers of the banner of the Talmud ranked them- 
selves to battle with the Karaites, they did not condescend to 
notice the Samaritans. 

When we say that this period surpassed the former, we are 
far from disparaging the great Gaonim, and from thinking 
them men inferior to their successors. In truth, these men 
were only dwarfs who stood on the shoulders of giants for had 
they not stood on the shoulders of those giants they could not 
have investigated deeply all those subjects to which in time of 
the Gaonim no attention had been paid. For, in spite of the 
precept of Sherira, above mentioned, ‘‘ that the utterances of the 
Gaonim require no demonstration,” they did not cease to give 
proofs, reasons, and to advance arguments in their replies. to 
questioners. Only by means of thorough and deep research 
in the Talmud, by comparing and by reasoning, did the Gaonim 
bring the ideas of their time in accordance with the ancient 
Halakhas, thus increasing the practical importance of tradition 
and giving to the Torah a living interest. The Spanish and 
French scholars took up their work and carried it on, extending 
it to all branches of science. Then literature, therefore, at- 
tained its highest development, so that this period has been 
termed the “golden age of Jewish learning.” The replies of 
the Gaonim only were the basis of their superstructure, reared 
when intellectual activity had removed from the banks of the 
Euphrates to the banks of the Tagus and the Rhine. 


42 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


Their explanations of Halakha were of two kinds; either 
those induced by the bare love of knowledge, or answers which 
had to be given to question arising from practical exigencies, 
which occasioned the analysis of the Halakhas and the investi- 
gation whether the spirit of the Halakhas held good only at 
their time or applied to other times also. 

Five compilations of this kind, termed “Replies of the 
Gaonim,”’ exist in the Jewish literature, which have been com- 
piled from the beginning of the seventh to the eleventh cen- 
turies. The first of the authors of those replies was the Gaon 
Hananai and the last Hai the Gaon. This literature of the 
Gaonim’s replies is a large field for scientific researches in 
literary history in general, of historic events, and of intellectual 
progress. In all their replies and decisions we see that their aim 
is knowledge, not authoritativeness as is usual in the case of 
priests or even of Gaonim. For their decision they gave rea- 
sons and advanced arguments, and also forbade no learned or 
ingenious man to object to them. 

This spirit of employing reason found in this literature of 
Replies still continues. By it the present is linked with the 
past and the future with the present. These replies touch 
almost all branches of thought as well as all practical questions, 
viz.: the value of the Agada in Talmudic literature; the value 
of the studies of the mysteries; opinions on philosophy, on the 
rights due to sciences, answers to questions about chronology 
and calculations of time. History, geography, and mathemat- 
ics in some of their replies are also discussed. There are also 
answers with reasons to questions about Laws of Marriage, 
Gentiles, Proselytes, Testaments, Mourning, Sermons, Divorce. 
They also explain to those who question them different pas- 
sages in Mishna and Talmud—dquestions even without any 
practical aim—only to increase and advance the Torah by the 
discussions made in the house of learning. 





SAMUEL HANAGID AND HIS CONTEMPORARIES. 43 


CHAPTER X. 


THE SPANISH WRITERS. A BRIEF SURVEY OF THEIR WRITINGS 
RELATING TO THE TALMUD. 


Although the aim of this, our work, is to give a history of the 
Talmud alone, not of the whole Jewish literature of that period 
(to which is devoted a work by Dr. Karpeles and others), we 
can not, however, skip over the writers of Spain and France 
of that time, who extended the literature according to the 
fundamental principles of the Talmud, and shine in history, 
the admiration of succeeding generations. We will not, how- 
ever, speak at length of their work or examine it minutely, but 
merely mention the names; only those whose main work was 
elevated to Talmudic subjects we except from this rule of 
brevity, and shall speak about their work as far as is neces- 
sary for the purpose of this work. 

The first of the distinguished men of Spain, whom the 
Babylonians honored with the title of ‘“‘ Resh Kalah” (synony- 
mous with ‘‘ Head of College’’), was R. Hisdai b. Itzhak Ebn 
Spurt (915-970), who was counsellor and physician to the 
Caliph Abdul Rahman III., and he was the one who helped his 
co-religionists to rise from their degradation. Besides his dili- 
gence in other sciences, as the translation of the botanical books 
of Disscroridus, the Greek, for his sovereign, the Caliph, he car- 
ried on a correspondence with the Gaonim of the colleges of 
Sura and Pumbeditha, and through them succeeded in bringing 
scholars and books to his own country, and to found a college for 
Talmudical studies. He wrote the well known letter to the 
king of the Chosars, in which his love for his co-religionists and 
his zeal for their welfare are manifested. Menahem b. S’ruk and 
Duns b. Labrat, the grammarians known through their polem- 
ics about the roots and the grammar of the Hebrew language, 
were invited by R. Hisdai to come to popularize the study of 
Hebrew. Jehud b. David Chilveg, Isaac b. Kapron and Isaac 
Giktalia were the disciples of Menahem, and Jehudah b. Shes- 
heth was the disciple of Dun. These men by their contro- 
versies about the grammar carried it further and perfected the 
study. Jonah Ebn Ganah (1000-1050) surpassed even those, 


44 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


for he composed seven books about grammar in Arabic and 
Hebrew which are preserved to the present time. 

Samuel Hanagid (and the Nasi Ebn Nagdilah, 993-1055) 
was a patron of Jewish learning in Spain, as Ebn Spurt had 
been before him. He was the author of twenty-two books, 
but not even one of them survives completely. Even from 
his great book ‘Introduction to the Talmud”’ only a small 
portion is preserved, but this testifies to the greatness of his 
knowledge and the acuteness of his intellect. With all his ad- 
herence to the traditions and to the cardinal principles of the 
Talmud, he did not exclude the use of common sense and 
human judgment. He says: ‘Every comment in the Tal- 
mud on passages of Scriptures other than commandments we 
have to admit only so far as seems to be rational, but as for 
the rest, it is not authoritative.’’ From this we see that in his 
ideas about the Hagadah of the Talmud, he went a step in ad- 
vance of the Gaonim, Saadiah, and Hai. His poems and pray- 
ers in his works “‘ Ben Thilim’”’ and “‘ Ben Mishle ”’ are based on 
the tradition of the Talmud. But of his “‘ Ben Koheleth”’ noth- 
ing was preserved by us. He was held in great esteem by the 
contemporary learned men. Many wrote poems in his praise, 
among them is the ‘‘Orphan”’ (Jethoma), by R. Joseph b. His- 
dai. The poets at that time used to say, ‘‘In the days of R. 
Hisdai, the Nasi, they began to twitter (in poetry) and in the 
days of Samuel the Nagid, they lifted their voice.” (See App. 
No. 11.) 

He was succeeded by the lofty poet Solomon b. Gabirol, 
1012-1070. (We need not here dwell on his biography and 
work, as Messrs. Senor Sachs and Salomon Munk wrote whole 
books about him.) In his time, Jekuthiel Ebn Hassau, who was 
high in the court of King Jahia Ibu Mundhir at Saragossa, was 
also a patron of all Jewish learning, especially of ben Gabirol. 
The latter’s poem, “‘Kether Malchuth” (Crown of Royalty), 
was very favorably received by all who bore the banners of the 
Talmudic and Kabbaldic studies, and also by Christian priests, 
so that it was translated into Latin by the priest Dominicus 
Gondizallo (1150) and also into Hebrew by him, with the 
assistance of Johannis Abudalu (an apostate Jew). The fact 
that his name ‘‘Ebn Gabirol”’ was altered to Abizatrol or 
Abizabran has been illuminated by Salomon Munk. 





THE ISAACS, THE SAGES OF THAT DAY. 45 


Bahayi b. Joseph Ebn Pekira, Judge in Saragossa, his con- 
temporary, is the author of the wonderful book ‘‘ The Duty of 
Hearts” (Chobath Halbaboth) in Arabic, which has been 
translated by Samuel Ebn Tabun into Hebrew, and accepted 
as a guide in life by Israel everywhere they were found. (It 
has been translated also into German by Herr Baumgarten of 
Vienna.) This teacher Behayi absorbed himself wholly in the 
Talmud and gave it the preference to Arabic or Grecian phi- 
losophy. His object in this, his wonderful work, is the follow- 
ing: to conciliate morals with commandments and the duties 
of the heart with those of the other members of the body. The 
duty of the heart is purity of thought, that of the other mem- 
bers to carry out the commandments. (See App. No. 12.) 

Five sages bearing the name Isaac lived at that time, viz.: 
1. Isaac b. Reuben of Barcelona (1043), great in knowledge of 
the Talmud and an expert at translating. He translated the 
decisions of R. Hai Gaon, about buying and selling, from Arabic 
to Hebrew. 2. Isaac b. Jehudah Ebn Giath (1089), who com- 
posed prayers and ritual poems considered remarkable at that 
time. 3. Isaac b. Moses Sochni, who emigrated from Spain to 
the East, where he was qualified as Gaon and became the suc- 
cessor of R. Hai. Only his fame survives, his writings, however, 
arealllost. 4. Isaac b. Baruch Abudaly (1035-1094), who was 
a sage and astrologer to Caliph Al Mahmed. The latter made 
him Nasi over the Israelite communities in his domain, Seville. 
He wrote a commentary to difficult Halakhas in his book 
“Kupath Haruchim’”’ (Book of Spices), which, however, he did 
not complete. 5. The greatest of all, Isaac b. Jacob Alphassi 
(1013-1103), who came from North Africa to Lucina (Alisa) 
and there founded a college for the study of the Talmud, 
in which he surpassed all his colleagues in Spain. Alphassi 
was the first to abridge the Talmud, compiling only the neces- 
sary Halakhas, transcribed textually. Sometimes he appended 
his opinions, and by this work is immortalized among all Israel 
in exile. In times of misfortune, when it was difficult to pro- 
cure the Talmud, students occupied themselves with his work, 
called after him “* Alphassi,’’ to which they wrote many commen- 
taries. His decisions, called “‘ Questions and Replies of Hariph,”’ 
have been accepted for all times. It is true that he wrote in 
Arabic and that it was translated into Hebrew. He also wrote 


46 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


three great Halakhas with an extensive commentary in Arabic, 
which was also translated into Hebrew, as well as 320 of his 
decisions above mentioned. (One was recently published with 
a new translation from the Arabic.) 

The spirit of deep research, distinguishing this Spanish 
period, is also found in his works. The most difficult subjects 
in the Talmud and all intricate questions he explains easily. 
He strove in his books to smooth the contradictions between 
the Torah and Wisdom, reconciling them. His decisions ex- 
tend over all provinces of the Torah in all questions concerning 
law and judgment; to all laws, both written and traditional 
laws, his reasons, based upon sound logic, were stated in a con- 
cise and ingenious manner. In the same way, he also explains 
the Hagada, to bring it in conformity with reason. He, Al- 
phassi, did not devote himself to theological philosophy and 
criticism of the Scriptures, like his contemporaries, but to 
Talmudical studies, thus giving an example to those thinkers 
not to presume to give their religion a philosophic garb. At 
his death, all Jewish scholars, wheresoever found, lamented 
him. R. Jehudah Halevi, whose muse began then to shine, 
mourned for him thus: 


Mountains on the day of Sinai for thee quaked, 
For angels of the Lord met thee 

And inscribed the Torah on the tablets of thy heart. 
The glorious crown was placed around thee. 

The wise had not power to stand 

If they did not from thee wisdom beg. 


Moses b. Samuel Ebn Giktali and Jehudah Ebn Bilan (1070) 
were free thinkers in his age and his opponents, but many of 
those scholars who explained the Talmud by simple logic were 
his disciples. Among these was also Isaac b. Baruch Albalia, 
mentioned above. The greatest of his disciples, however, was 
Joseph Ebn Migash b. Mair (1076-1141), who succeeded to his 
position in his college and inherited his greatness in Talmudic 
wisdom. His new contributions to Talmudic study, called by 
him ‘‘ Megilath Setharim”’ (The Revelation of Hidden Scrolls) 
and the queries and answers collected into one book under the 
title of ‘‘Questions and Replies of Ebn Migash,”’ bear testi- 
mony to his ingenuity, loftiness of spirit and gentleness. (These 
books were reprinted the second time by us in 1870, in Warsaw, 





THE ISAACS, THE SAGES OF THAT DAY. 47 


with our preface and some remarks, but even this edition is 
already nearly out and scattered.) Most of his answers and 
questions were written in Arabic and translated later into 
Hebrew; only his explanations were written in Hebrew and in 
the Talmudic idiom. Particularly wondrous is his manner of 
examining all sides of a subject, so that not one possibility re- 
mains unconsidered. 

As Ebn Migash was the greatest Rabbi after the death of 
his master, Alphassi, questions were addressed to him from all 


- sides, and he, always following his disposition, answered them 


according to his inclinations, leniently. Let us cite one of his 
answers as an example: 

A question was addressed to him by one who had vowed to 
abstain from meat and wine till he shall have reached the Holy 
Land, and found the project too difficult to carry out, but could 
find no ground for repenting. Ebn Migash found for him a 
ground for repentance, that, while he vowed he undoubtedly 
was ignorant of a saying in the Talmud: Whoever afflicts him- 
self is guilty against a life. 

Many were the disciples who trod in Ebn Migash’s foot- 
steps and carried on their activity in his spirit. Among these 
was his son who succeeded him also in his college. Of his con- 
temporaries, who distinguished themselves as philosophers or 
poets, it is proper to mention Rabbi Joseph Ebn Zadok of 
Cordova (1070-1149), author of ‘‘Olam Katan”’ (Microcosm), 
a religious philosophy in which he is of the opinion (see App. 
No. 11) that man must know himself in order to attain to the 
knowledge of Divinity. The rabbi who was his predecessor 
at Cordova, Joseph b. Jacob Ebn Sahl (1103), was a poet and 
ritual author. (See App. No. 12.) In the north of Spain were 
also then found scholars and poets; Abraham b. Hyya, a 
minister in a Mahometan ruler’s court, was a great astronomer 
and mathematician, who wrote four books on astronomy, three 
of which were printed, viz.: ‘“‘ The Form of the Earth” (T’urath 
Hoaretz), “The Book of Leap-Years’”’ (Sepher Haibur), of the 
third, only the latter part, treating of mathematics, optics, and 
astronomy was printed. Next to him is Jehudah b. Barzilar, 
author of the book ‘“‘ Hoetim’’ (The Times). 

We have reached to the three great poets, who enjoy a 
world-wide renown, Moses b. Ezra, Abraham b. Meir Ebn Ezra, 


48 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


and Jehudah Halevi, all of whom were bearers of the banner of 
the Talmud, and contributed to diffusing its ideas and morals 
among the nation. We think it, however, superfluous to ex- 
patiate on them, as they are well-known to every cultured per- 
son, and, as many books have been written about them at dif- 
ferent epochs, we cannot refrain, however, from giving briefly 
their biographies, as far as they bear on no subject of this work. 

The dates of the birth and death of the first of these, Moses 
b. Ezra, are unknown to us: it is known only to us that he lived 
later than ben Gabirol. His opinions in his poems and other 
works vacillate. He composed ritual poems and lamenta- 
tions, which have a place in the prayer-books of the Spanish 
Jews; also the ‘“‘Arugath Habossem” (Bed of Spices), on 
theological philosophy, and the ‘‘Sepher Hassichoth V’hazi- 
chronoth”’ (Book of Discourses and Reminiscences), about the 
poems of ben Gabirol and his character. 

The second, Abraham Ebn Ezra, was one of the most won- 
derful phenomena of his age. His commentaries on the Bible, 
his poems and ritual poems, are known to everyone; but the 
contemporary scholars found it impossible to know his real 
opinions, nor can modern scholars fathom them. 

The third, Jehudah Halevi, the father of poets, before whom 
none lived equal to him, and who knows whether after him any 
one like him will live. Besides inspiring with a very exalted 
national spirit every reader of his poems and lamentations, he 
powerfully defended the Talmud in his book the “‘Chosar,”’ 
where the eloquent defender of the Talmud is represented by 
the disputant arguing with the King of the Chosars, and which 
to the present time is a shining example of compositions of this 
kind. (A lengthy account the reader can find in the works of 
Karpeles.) 

After them is distinguished Abraham b. David Halevi (Ebn 
Daud) who died as a martyr (1180). He defended the Tal- 
mud in his book ‘‘Emuna Rama” (Exalted Faith) and in his 
great work ‘‘Hakabala” (The Tradition), in which he power- 
fully argues against all the deniers of tradition, and shows 
them in the wrong; supporting his logical arguments by his- 
torical facts, proving the continuance of tradition from the 
time of Moses to that time. In his polemics against the Kara- 
ites, he is so irritated that he styles them “dumb dogs.” 





JEHUDAH HALEVI, ABRAHAM B. DAVID. 49 


With Moses b. Maiman, the Spaniard, called by all “‘ Mai- 
monides” or “Rambam”’ (1135-1204), the Spanish period 
concludes. With him died the mental activity in Spain, after 
having flourished there for three centuries. About this great 
man we have nothing to add to what the historians who have 
preceded us have written about his life, and disputed about his 
opinions. (The reader desiring minute information is referred 
to the Life of the Rambam, “Taldoth Horambam,”’ by I. H. 
Weiss, and also Karpeles’ work.) But we do not think it 
superfluous to remark on two points, viz.: 1. That the opin- 
ions of Maimonides are found to differ in the three different 
periods of his life: thus, in his commentary on the Mishnayoth, 
they are not the same as in his work “ Yad Hachazaka,”’ nor 
are they similar to that of his last work, “‘More Nebuchim,”’ 
which he wrote in the evening of his life. For in all of them we 
see a development of his ideas according to the increase of his 
studies and knowledge; it is not true as some affirm that there 
is no change in his opinions. We have made it evident, long 
ago, in our book “ Phylacterien-Ritus,’”’ that his decisions in 
his ‘‘ Yad Hachazaka”’ or ‘“‘Mishna Torah,’ do not accord 
with those in his commentary on the Mishnayoth; and, it is 
needless to say, that his statements in the “‘ More”’ are at vari- 
ance with things said in all his former works. And in truth, 
this is the case with all great thinkers, that they can not re- 
main at a stand still from their youth to their old age, and to 
this we may apply [Job, xxxii. 7]. ‘‘ Multitude of years shall 
make wisdom known.” 

2. That Maimonides has omitted all references in the 
Talmud which treats of witchcraft, demons, interpretation of 
dreams, etc., not only because they were considered by him as 
vain superstitions and follies, for this reason alone he would , 
not have ventured to omit them, in spite of the Talmud, for he 
left all that is found in the Talmud of Halakhas and moral 
Hagadas, even with which he himself could not agree; but his 
motive was, that, in his opinion, they had originally not been 
found in the Talmud, and that only the later men inserted 
them, according to their own ideas, for whatever purpose it 
might have been. (I. H. Weiss has insinuated this long ago, 
and it seems that the probability tends that way.) 

So also, about the apology advanced by many for the words 


4 


50 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


of Maimonides at the head of his work ‘‘ Mishna Torah,” that 
he had chosen this title, because if a man first read the Penta- 
teuch, and then this work, he will know the entire Oral Law, 
and need read no intermediate book—that by these words he 
did not mean that his work should be a substitute for the 
Talmud, etc., etc.; we do not think this apology needful, even 
if he meant this. For as Maimonides had observed that much 
had been superadded to the Talmud, also things opposed to 
his general opinions—no wonder if he wished to prevent those 
who could not distinguish between the good and the evil, from 
reading the spurious passages, to which they would attach as 
great importance as to the Talmud itself. After he had sifted 
it, and arranged all that is found in that sea, the Talmud, in 
fourteen volumes, of his “‘ Mishna Torah,”’ there is no pre-emp- 
tion or oddity in these words, whereby he merely sought the 
real good of the students. 

To enumerate in detail all his books, writings, epistles, 
polemics and apologies, we think superfluous here; as all bio- 
graphical and critical facts have already been given in detail in 
the above-mentioned works. We will only remark, that after 
all the great things which Maimonides had done and accom- 
plished, he did not attain his object. As the study of the 
Talmud did not cease in any of the colleges, and, on the con- 
trary, they who desired to criticize Maimonides, brought the 
rabbis to study yet more profoundly and attentively the Tal- 
mud, and to add new commentaries, decisions of Halakhas, etc., 
ete. 


CHAPTER XI. 


THE SCHOLARS OF GERMANY AND OF NORTHERN FRANCE, AND 
WHAT THEY CONTRIBUTED TO THE STUDIES OF THE TALMUD. 


At the time, when Talmudic study flourished in Spain, and 
made progress, and diffused itself in all corners of the earth, 
shone ‘‘the luminary of the exile” in Germany, who con- 
structed a strong fortress around the Talmud, in his great 
wisdom—which was accepted in all places of the exiled as 
though canonical, and which not only contributed to strengthen 
the Talmud, but also to prevent all its adherents from perishing. 

Like Rabban Johanan b. Zakkai formerly, when he saw that 





GERSHON, ‘‘ THE LUMINARY OF THE EXILE.” 5: 


the end of Jewish civic independence approached, founded by 
his wisdom a Jewish spiritual kingdom, which nothing could 
ruin, and by saving from the jaws of that lion, Vespasian, 
Yanmia and its sages, saved the existence of the Jewish people 
itself; so did Gershon b. Jehudah who came from Carraibe 
to Mayence, where his great teacher Jehudah b. Meir resided. 
This most important task he found to be his prohibition, which 
he made in the name of the Talmud, and at once all Israel (in 
Europe) hailed this luminary, and accepted without protests 
or hesitation, his prohibition, and made it a permanent law. 

He saw and understood that the Jews scattered among 
Christian nations, among whom divorce is prohibited and 
polygamy regarded as a sin, will not exist long, if they persist 
to permit themselves these things, according to their laws, and, 
as he had not the power to forbid what was permitted in the 
Torah expressly, he strove to remove the causes leading to 
divorce; and thereby he made his co-religionists so far like the 
Christians that they should be able to live side by side. 

He decreed, on pain of excommunication, and without re- 
vocation or qualification, that polygamy be prohibited to every 
Israelite (see App. No. 13), and only monogamy should be 
legal, and as long as the first wife lives, it is prohibited to add 
to her another, in the capacity of wife or concubine. Thereby, 
the main cause for divorce was also removed, but he did not 
content himself with this decree alone, but added thereto a 
decree opposed to the Pentateuch, that divorce cannot take 
place without the assent of the divorced wife, if the man and 
his wife should find it impossible to live together, then only if 
the woman is also willing, the husband can divorce her. 
Whereas, till then, the woman was dependent on the will of 
her husband, for good or for ill. It is superfluous for us to 
expatiate on the consequences of these two decrees, or rather 
reforms of how much utility they have been to social life and 
the feeble sex; as every thinking man can understand this. 

Added to these prohibitions, he permitted Jewish apostates, 
who are penitent, to return to their faith, and also prohibited, 
on pain of excommunication, to open a strange man’s letter 
and read it, without the assent of the person to whom it is ad- 
dressed. 

His energy, great wisdom, and deep observation of his 


52 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


nation’s life, and strong wish to ensure its existence, we can 
see from these reforms, which we do not find made by any rabbis 
of his predecessors; and he was justly called, afterwards, “‘ The 
Luminary of the Exile,” as he illuminated in truth the eyes of 
all Israelites and gave to them a new life. He composed com- 
mentaries on several tracts of the Talmud, which became dis- 
tinguished in his age, and the commentator on the Torah, . 
Rashi (whom we are going to mention) borrowed from him 
much. 

R. Machir, his brother (1030), was also a Talmudic scholar 
and the author of a Talmudic dictionary. Several ritual poets 
were also found in Germany and Northern France, as Meshulam 
bar Kleinmus, R. Simeon, b. Isaac, b. Abun of Mayence, who 
lamented the miseries of their paytonim in ritual poems and 
prayers for mercy (Sli’choth), but their work in the study of the 
Torah was small; and only in Metz and Mayence in Germany, 
and Rheims, Loiret, in Northern France and Narbonne, Mont- 
pellier and Beziers in Southern France were many scholars, 
whose active occupation was mental activity in the field of the 
Talmud. (The college of Talmud in Narbonne was erected by 
R. Machir, who had arrived from Babylonia to France; and in 
the second half of the eleventh century came from this college 
R. Moses Hadarshon, known as the commentator on some tracts 
in the Talmud, and some books of Scripture; and later gener- 
ations drew much on his wisdom, and made many quotations 
from him. All or most of his writings are collected in one 
work entitled “ Breshith Rabthi.”’ R. Joseph Tob Alm (Baufils, 
of Lemans), who has edited and systematized many subjects 
and speculations of the Talmud, a list of the Tanaim and 
Amoraim, and the answers of the Gaonim, and R. Elijah the 
Elder, both men of that age, were esteemed as poets, but did 
not approach those of Spain. 

What is worthy of notice, considering the various countries 
at that age, is that whereas the scholars of Spain (see App. 
No. 14) exerted their great powers and displayed their knowl- 
edge in collecting Halakhas of the Talmud, the scholars of 
Germany devoted themselves wholly to collecting Hagadas 
and Midrashim, so that various compilers rose. Of the dis- 
tinguished compilers of Midrash are: R. Moses of Narbonne, 
R. Jehudah of Toulouse, R. Simeon, author of ‘ Yalkut 





RASHI OR ISAACIDES. 53 


Simoni,” where he compiled words of wisdom, morals and 
Hogada, from fifty various ancient works and arranged them 
according to the portions of the Pentateuch. This Yalkut is 
a comprehensive reference book for Agadic lore, and drove 
out of the field the Agadic compilation ‘‘Lekach Tob,” or 
“Psigtha Zutrha” by R. Tobiah b. Eliezer, his contemporary, 
who lived in Greece (Byzantium) at that time. 

We will skip over a number of lecturers and Pashtanim 


_ for want of space, and we will come to our great teacher, 


through whom only we are enabled to comprehend the Talmud, 
and to read it and study it, namely: R. Soloman b. Isaac of 
Trayes, called (by using the initials) ‘Rashi’ (1040-1105). 
He was the first who gave a complete piece of work in his com- 
mentary on the Talmud. He is one of the most wonder- 
ful phenomena given by Nature, perhaps once in thousand 
years; his advantage over Maimonides, his peer, is in the fact 
that he met with general acceptation in the whole world, and 
no one presumes to study the Talmud without him. The in- 
fluence he has on Jewish students has met with no opposition 
or discontent. The generations subsequent to Rashi, styled 
him ‘‘Parshandatha” (a proper name in Scripture), that is, 
‘“‘Explainer of the Law.” Justly was he called thus; in truth 
no man arose after him with such ability to shed light on the 
intricacies of the law or on obscure passages in Scripture. 

His comprehensive intellect embraced that mighty and 
eternal structure, the whole vast province of the theological 
literature of Israel. By his commentaries he has introduced 
common sense into the study of the vastest and profoundest 
subjects. The study of the tracts lacking his commentary, 
although many different other men have attempted to supply 
the deficiency, gives us many pains and much trouble, till we 
come to understand the real meaning. As what Rashi eluci- 
dates in a few words, or sometimes even by one word added 
to the text before us, has to be commented upon by others in 
many laborious lines to make the student, understand the 
simple meaning of the Talmud. 

The life of Rashi has been written by many scholars, who 
have discussed at length his commentaries, legal decisions, and 
ritual poetry. The latest, A. H. Weiss, in the periodical ‘‘ Beth 
Talmud” and in separate pamphlets. We think it therefore 


54 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


superfluous to repeat them, as this is not our task here. We 
have to remark, however, on several points relating to the 
Talmud here, on which those scholars have left something for 
us to add: An examination of Rashi’s commentaries on 
the Talmud, on the Bible, and legal decisions in his ‘‘ Hapardes,”’ 
and so also his ritual poems, will show that they differ in their 
nature totally. In his commentary on the Talmud, which 
general criticism places above his other writings, we see that he 
is very cautious to decide any Halakha, and to draw from the 
statements of the Talmud definite conclusions as to a law or 
custom. We do not remember in his whole commentary on 
the Talmud, any place where he should decide ‘‘that such a 
Halakha prevails,’’ or even, “‘so was the custom in his days,” 
as we find on many occasions in the commentaries of his 
disciples ‘‘Tosphath,’’ and we have long ago shown in our 
work about Phylacteries (p. 24), that he has interpreted an 
obscure passage in the Talmud in contradiction to the cus- 
tom and Halakha accepted among the Gaonim, because, ac- 
cording to his method, it is the plain meaning of the passage 
(see there, p. 30). Everywhere he bewares of dialectics, and of 
contradictions between some passages of the Talmud and others, 
but he explained the subject of the passage according to its 
simple meaning in its own place. In case of Agadoth he also 
was careful to give only an explanation of the words, literally 
without any remark or opinion of his own, even hinted. This 
is his custom in his whole commentary on the Talmud. Where 
he found the text corrupted, he corrected it according to his 
opinion, and in accordance to his profound knowledge of the 
Talmud, of its style and language; and, if necessary, removed 
the old version, not fearing additions or eliminations, provided 
the real meaning of the Talmud he comprehended, without . 
resorting to forced and far-fetched reasoning. 

His commentary on the Bible, however, is different, as 
mostly he construes according to the Halakha; 7.e., as the sages 
had explained the biblical passages in the Talmud and Mid- 
rashim, without regard to the fact that the literal meaning of 
the biblical texts often does not bear out these constructions. 
Often he was not averse to interpret the text according to 
the Talmudic interpretation, even when its meaning is mani- 
festly contrary thereto by all the rules of language. His 








RASHI OR ISAACIDES. 55 


object in this is unknown to us, and it can only be conjectured 
that he did not like that his commentary should be at variance 
with the Talmudic interpretations and conclusions, which cor- 
rectness and justice he forces himself in his commentary on 
the Talmud to make manifest. 

Not so in his decisions; he endeavors always to interpret 
the laws leniently (mildly), and is averse to rigor. There he 
also avoids dialectics, tries not to attain his object by strange 
and eccentric reasonings, but is only intent on finding the real 
deep meaning of the law, and to interpret it as mildly as it is 
in his power. It is true, that most of his decisions are written 
by his disciples, and we cannot find there that clearness of 
language and wonderful felicity of expression which he displays 
in his two above-mentioned commentaries. The Replies of 
the Gaonim and their works served to him also as a guide, 
but he did not tread in their footsteps blindfold, but he 
sifted their statements and construed them ingeniously into 
‘ accordance with his own opinion; this we witness in his book 
Pardes,* which has been accepted as a great authority for all 
Poskim deciders of the law subsequent to him. 

We do not possess his commentary on all the tracts of the 
Talmud, for of three tracts we know with certitude that the 
commentaries are not his; and in the case of other tracts, 
criticism is doubtful whether they are from his pen. And it 
may be that they got lost in the course of time, either because 
he did not compose his comments on the Talmud in the natural 
order, but in the order in which they were studied in the great 
college at the head of which he was, and whither pupils flocked 
from all places of the earth, after the decease of the celebrated 
scholars of Lorraine; or perhaps he left this world before he 
had completed his commentary on the whole Talmud, as he 
did not complete the commentary on the Bible, for those on 
the books of Chronicles, Ezra, and Nehemiah, and a part of the 
commentary on the books of Ezekiel and Job have not issued 
from his pen, though they bear no name, for they are easily 
distinguishable from his version in their style and by their 
nature. 

What Rashi had done to the Talmud, his disciples have 





* It was also reprinted by us at Warsau, 1870, with our preface and a few notes. 


56 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


done to his commentary, which they have surrounded by com- 
ments and remarks on the margins, sometimes to make plainer 
his meaning, and sometimes they also made additions to 
amplify his statements by Agadas and Halakhas, and in the 
course of time they crept into his own commentary and were 
interpolated into the words of Rashi, but to separate them 
from his own words it is very difficult, even for the lancet of 
sharp criticism. 

Modern criticism has rightly thought that Rashi (Isaacides) 
began his labor of the commentary on the Talmud, which was 
composed gradually, by the lectures which he delivered to the 
students. After this he turned to the Midrash, and from 
it passed to the books of Scripture. And as soon as his com- 
mentary was heard among the living, an echo sounded in the 
camp of Israel that if not Isaacides who laid his hand upon it 
to investigate and to commentate it, it would remain almost 
neglected as its brother, the Palestinian Talmud. No wonder, 
therefore, that after a short time, some fifty commentaries on the 
commentary of Rashi sprung up, which examine nicely every 
word and syllable that has proceeded from him; and the last, 
Kabbalist, R. Samson, of Astropol, was not incorrect when he 
said in his book, “‘ Likute Shoshanim”’ [‘‘ Collections of Roses’’], 
that every drop of ink that has come forth from Rashi’s pen 
it is needful to sit seven days and to examine with one’s whole 
attention. 

Thus while Alphassi illuminated Spain by his elucidations 
of the Halakhas, another sun, Rashi, rose also in France to 
shed yet more light, to comment on the Talmud, its Halakhas 
and Agadas. And the latter had more success, in so far that 
his commentary was accepted in all the world (among Chris- 
tian scholars also, as has avowed Nicholas de Lyra, some two 
hundred years after Rashi’s decease, that to the right under- 
standing of the words and simple meaning of the texts, Rashi’s 
‘commentary has led him) by universal assent. And therein 

_also is France superior to Spain, that though the latter has 
been studying diligently Torah, even from the ancient times, 
while the colleges at Sura and Pumbeditha existed yet, and 
after their fall, assumed pre-eminence in the usages and litera- 
ture of Israel, their scholars could never agree, and were for- 
ever disputing. But in France, since Rashi’s commentary 





RASHBAM AND TAM. 57 


began to shine, no voice dissented from the universal approval, 
and those who sometimes were at variance with him, did not 
withhold the great honors which were justly due to him, and 
endeavored to reconcile their own opinions with his. For two 
hundred years continuously, after Rashi’s decease, his disciples 
were diligent at the holy work of spreading the study of the 
Talmud and a correct understanding of the great work of their 
master. They called their labors only ‘‘ Additions’’ (Tosphoth), 
1.e., their thoughts which suggested themselves to them to add 
to his commentary, and to explain it. 


CHAPTER XII. 
THE DOCTORS OF FRANCE. AUTHORS OF THE TOSPHOTH. 


Through the Tosphoth which were begun by Rashi’s own 
descendants as his two sons-in-law, Meir b. Samuel and Jehudah 
bar Nathan and the sons of the first Samuel and Jacob Tam, 
the activity of the scholars of France and Germany assumed 
great proportions and was exalted, so that all Israel in the 
Middle Ages accepted them unanimously, and in the course of 
time the numbers of their disciples and the pupils of their 
disciples increased. So that more than two hundred great 
Talmudists are known to the historian, but whom it is needless 
to enumerate here, except a few which we deem necessary for 
our work. 

His grandson, R. Samuel b. Meir, or Rashbam (1085-1158), 
did not content himself with the commentary of his grand- 
father on the Bible, as well as on the Talmud, and tried his 
strength to explain them after his own method, that is, accord- 
ing to their deep literal meaning, and leaving ingenious but 
forced constructions to dialecticians, even when the literal 
interpretation will thus be in direct contradiction to the Hal- 
akha (see App. No. 15) however, without any opposition to the 
traditions expressed. He only added in his commentary “ac- 
cording to the deep literal meaning,” but leaves one to think 
that even the traditional interpretation about the Halakha 
can find place. To the Hagada, however, which tries to inter- 
pret biblical texts according to its legends, he opposes with all 
the strength of his intellect, and makes manifest their contra- 


58 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


diction, so as to demolish the Hagada to the foundation. In 
his commentary on the Talmud, however, he is given to lengthy 
reasonings and dialectics and also endeavors to arrive at deci- 
sions of Halakhas, which his grandfather took care to avoid. > 
Whoever sees critically, Rashi’s commentary on Tract Baba 
Bathra up to 29b, and from there onwards, Rashbam’s 
commentary which is its substitute from that place onwards, 
will be astonished at the great difference between them, if but 
at the relative quantities of Rashi’s comments and Rashbam’s. 

From his commentaries and compositions we see that he had 
much knowledge of diverse languages, and of the manners and 
customs of nations and their modes of life, and gave human 
reasons for many commandments of the Pentateuch. In 
Northern France his commentaries were accepted in the colleges 
and it became their main authority. 

But his younger brother, Jacob, styled ‘‘Rabenu Tam,” 
devoted his whole mind to studies of the Talmud chiefly, and 
he became the center of the authors of the Tosphoth, to him 
flocked men with questions from all ends of the earth, to whom 
he was as an oracle. Justly we may entitle him the Pillar of 
the Talmud. He went to the depths of the sea of the Talmud, 
and made it his first task to reconcile apparent contradictions 
therein. He likewise mended many corrupted texts in the 
Talmud, though of him it has been said that he decreed on the 
pain of excommunication not to amend any text in the Talmud, 
and in many places he disagrees with his grandfather. Aside 
from this he did not at one’s own conjecture, neglect com- 
mentaries on Scriptures and grammatical studies, and decided 
in favor of Menachem b. Sruk against Duns b. Labrat in his 
book ‘‘ Hahakhraoth”’ (Reconciliations) ; he also tried his ability 
for poetry. As his biography has been written by the learned 
A. H. Weiss in a separate book, it is unnecessary to expatiate 
on it. 

Here is the place to remark that in late generations the 
second pair of phylacteries which pietists put on after the 
prayer, have been styled after him on account of two or three 
words which he wrote in his commentary on an obscure passage 
in Tract Mena’hoth in opposition to Rashi’s commentary, on 
account of a hair-splitting discussion in the language of the 
Gemara, though he had never the intention to decide so the 








JOSEPH KARA, ISAAC THE ELDER. 59 


Halakha, as his grandfather Rashi had also not intended in his 
commentary on the Halakha, still those phylacteries are called 
after him. In truth neither the one nor the other was used yet 
as phylacteries, as testifies the greatest among the authors of 
Tosphoth, R. Isaac the Elder (as this is explained in one 
book on Phylacteries). 

Among the faithful disciples whom Pashi had in the college 
at Troy it is proper to mention R. Joseph b. Simeon 
Kara who was revealed to us recently by modern criticism; 
and R. Joseph Bchor Shor who was a disciple of Rabenu Tam, 
and composed a commentary on the Pentateuch in the spirit 
of that of Rashbam. The other commentators on Scripture 
among the authors of the Tosphath and their disciples, how- 
ever, as the author of ‘‘ Hagan” (The Garden) a commentary on 
the Pentateuch, which is to be found in two different versions, 
and some more commentaries by R. Hezekiah b. Manoah, R. 
Isaac Halevi, R. Jehuda b. R. Eliezer, R. Jacob d’Ilesques, do 
not cling to the principle of literal interpretation, but of Drash 
and Mysticism. Rashi’s commentary was, however, their 
model. The chiefs of the authors of Tosphoth in the period 
of from 1167 till 1300 were: R. Isaac b. Samuel, called R. 
Isaac the Elder, from Dampirere, the nephew of Jacob Tam, 
his son Elchanan, Eliezer b. Samuel (‘‘Ram”’) of Metz, author 
of ‘‘Sepher Yereim’’ (Book of the God-Fearing), Isaac b. 
Abraham, Junior (Ritzba), his brother, Simsan of Chanz 
(Rashba), his great labors are:called Tosphoth of Chanz, 
Jehudah b. Isaac from Paris, called Sirlian, Ephraim b. Isaac | 
from Reugspurk, and Nathan Official, who will be mentioned 
by us further in a separate chapter. Among the latest of the 
authors of the Tosphoth, however, we may name the Rabbi 
Moses of Caucy, author of ““Smag”’ who is also mentioned in 
Tosphoth thrice (Berakhoth, 14b, 43a, Aboda Zarah, 13a), 
and R. Jacob of Courbel to whom have been attributed the 
questions and answers from Heaven, and we doubt whether 
Isaac of Vienna author of the well-known book “Or Zarua”’ 
(Diffused Light), who also lived at that time, has also been 
mentioned in Tosphoth (see our work on Phylacteries, p. 140), 
by the name of R. Isaac-simply, as not every time when the 
name R. Isaac-barely is mentioned in Tosphoth, R. Isaac the 
Elder is meant. 


60 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


This last, R. Moses of Caucy, contributed much to restore 
‘the study of the Talmud to its former splendor in his days, 
when in Spain it was almost stopped, and along with it many 
ceremonies, as phylacteries, Mezuzoth and Tzitzith, which were 
not seen in his time in any part of Spain or other countries. 
Owing to the oppression of the other religions by the dominant 
religion, the Israelites began to blend with the nations, and 
thousands of them embraced ostensibly the dominant religion, 
and some even conscientiously, having despaired of the former. 
_ hope of Israel, Moses of Coucy therefore devoted himself to his 
work and travelled from city to city, and from land to land, to 
encourage Israel in the study of the Talmudic literature, and 
restore the activity, and he is the first who required help for 
his aim from gentiles, his friends, though not co-religionists, and 
that his works should find acceptance he backed them by 
dreams and natural phenomena that took place at the time, 
which he warned the people that they were signs from heaven, _ 
and also by astrology, to arouse the people to return to the 
study of the Talmud and its commandments. As he testified 
himself in his book which he wrote in his later days (1288), 
“ Sepher Mitzvoth Gadol”’ (Positive Commandments) whose title 
is abbreviated ‘‘Smag.” After writing the sermons in exile, 
he concludes: ‘‘After the year 4995 after creation (1235), an 
event took place from heaven to chastize. And in the year 
1236 I was in Spain preaching to and reproving them, God 
strengthened my arms by Jews and Gentiles’ dreams, and 
visions of the stars and extended his mercy to me, and the earth 
trembled* and there was general terror, great repentances were 
made, and thousands as well as myriads accepted the sacred 
ceremonies of Tephilin, Mezuzoth, and Tzitzith. So I was 
afterwards in other countries, and they were accepted in all 
places, and I was asked for a commentary on these command- 
ments in brief.’’ Not only in France and Spain were such books 
written about the practical ceremonies in the spirit of the Tal- 
mud, but also in Germany, R. Baruch of Germisa composed 
“Sepher Hatrumah” and R. Isaac from Vienna, his book 
“Diffused Light”’ (Or Zarua) which all treat of ceremonies and 
Halakhas after the rules of the Talmud, which those sages saw 





* See our ‘‘ Phylacterien,” page 85, concerning the trembling of the earth, men- 
tioned here. 





ema ee Fe 


RELIGIOUS DISPUTES. 61 


a great necessity to renew and arouse the nation to observe 
them, after the Halakahs of Alfasi and Maimonides had become 
already too ancient in their tone, and the violent persecutions 
then directed against the Talmud diminished the number of the 
students. It would seem that at that time was composed also 
the small book ‘“‘ Questions and Answers from Heaven” in the 
name of R. Jacob of Corbel who was known as a holy man, 
to show to the people that its hope was not yet at end, that in 
heaven all wards of the Talmud are venerated, and so are all 
sages who occupy themselves with it, as seen from the contents 
of the questions and answers given from heaven especially in 
case of R. Isaac Alfasi, about whom from heaven it was 
answered: ‘“‘Not in an old man is wisdom, nor in schoolboys 
counsel, but my covenant I shall fulfil with Isaac,’’ and this 
may be a kind of basis for the programme made by Shem Tobb, 
Joseph Falkira (1264), that diligent study of Alfasi may sub- 
stitute the study of the Talmud. 


CHAPTER XIII. 
RELIGIOUS DISPUTES OF ALL PERIODS. 


From the earliest recorded times there have been disputes 
between men on faith and religion. When, in pagan countries, 
the idols had become great in number and each man consid- 
ered his own the right one, he strove to convert his fellows to 
his own opinion, whether through benevolence or from wrath 
that the idol of his neighbor should be considered greater than 
his own. Traces of such disputes are found in the Prophets. 
To the Jewish people was probably due the increase in the 
violence and frequency of such disputes, since its mission was 
always the annihilation of idol-worship. Being monotheistic, 
it could not live at peace with any gods besides its own. No 
historical importance can be attached to such disputes among 
and with the heathen, because the number of idols was often 
as large as that of the worshippers. But when Christianity, 
whose great aim was to convert all humanity and to extinguish 
all theologies, began to spread over and to dominate the world, 
the matter of religious disputes assumed a new and baleful 
aspect, for presecutions and trials were mercilessly inflicted on 


62 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


all who opposed it, whether those who took an active part in 
the controversies or those who refused to enter into them. 

In recording the history of the Talmud and of its persecu- 
tions we cannot pass over the disputes concerning it from the 
time of its birth, and continuing throughout its troubled history 
in succeeding ages. A minute history of all these controver- 
sies, however, their dates, the names of the disputants, the 
topics of the disputes, as well as the consequences to the Tal- 
mud, would require a volume twice the bulk of the Talmud 
itself. We will therefore content ourselves with devoting to 
it a separate chapter, mentioning only the greater historical 
controversies and giving a résumé of the subject matter of the 
disputes as we deem them of value to our readers. 

Already in the first century we have seen that the disputes 
between the Jewish Christians and their brethren who did not 
believe in Jesus’ Messiahship were many. In the Talmud are 
given the names of many sages and Amoraims who were com- 
pelled to enter upon disputations with their Christian brethern.* 
But in the second and third centuries, houses for disputations 
(see App. No. 10) had already been established, as well in Pales- 
tine as in Babylonia, and doubtless also in many other places 
where Jews dwelt. Those known to us by name are the house 
of Abidan, the house of Abiani, and that of Nitzraphi. The 
Talmud relates that the Jews were forced to come hither, or to 
furnish sufficient explanation for not so doing. 

We have no record of the results of these disputes, but in 
the sixth century we see Priscus, a Jewish officer of King 
Eilprich, forced to a controversy. When ordered to embrace 
Christianity he naively replied “that he could not believe that, 
to save sinners, God was compelled to enter into marital rela- 
tions with a woman, and finally, in order to redeem the world, 
underwent the death-agony, when at his command were hosts 
of angels not needed in heaven.’”’ For this he was imprisoned. 
Henceforward in almost every century of the Christian era 
there arose fanatics who forced the Jews into controversy. In 
the seventh century these disputes were used as weapons 
against the Jews of Spain in documents issued by Isidorie, 
Bishop of Seville. These and other writings against the Jews, 





* R, Aqiba with R. Gamaliel, Joshua b. Hanania, Ishmael, Abuhu, and many 
others. 





RELIGIOUS DISPUTES. 63 


added to the verbal disputes, finally resulted in the ninth cen- 
tury, during the reign of Charles the Bald, in invectives pro- 
mulgated by the Bishop of Amulo, denouncing the Jewish 
creed as “superstition’’ and inciting all Christians to their 
duty in eradicating the error from the minds of the Jews, to 
force them to accept the Gospel in place of their belief in the 
two Messiahs, one a descendant of David and the other a de- 
scendant of Joseph. It is remarkable that in these documents 
the bishop complains that the Jews, by their eloquent sermons 
and lectures, made more impression on their hearers than did 
the preaching of the Christians, as he was convinced by per- 
sonal experience. And, indeed, in this he was not mistaken; 
for where the Jews’ lot was ameliorated, as in the reign of Louis 
the Saint—who, as well as his wife, Judith, honored the Jews, so 
much so as to change for their sake the fair-day from Saturday 
to Sunday—many Christians came to the synagogues to hear 
the Rabbis and the scholars among them read with pleasure 
the writings of Philo and Flavius instead of the Gospel, and 
likewise learned from Jewish scholars the interpretation of 
Scripture, as Rhabanus Maurus of Fulda avows in his commen- 
tary on the Bible. 

_ The Jews in Arabia also were forced to dispute with the 
Mussulmans, who assured them that the teaching of the Tal- 
mud had its day and Islam was even then usurping its 
place. When Basilius the Macedonian ascended the throne 
of Byzantium he summoned learned Jews to argue with 
Christian priests, who strove to convince them that Jesus had 
become the center of the law and prophets. But these dis- 
putes are insignificant compared with those of the last four 
centuries of the Middle Ages; during this period the number 
of Jewish apostates increased, who challenged their brethern 
of the old faith to arguments. Massacre and pillage were the 
results of these disputes, the invitation to which was, briefly, 
as follows: “If ye be willing and obey, the good of the land 
shall ye eat; but if ye refuse and rebel, by the sword shall ye be 
devoured.” And, as if no loophole should exist through 
which the Jews might evade persecution, if a Christian were 
converted to the Jewish faith and mocked his former religion 
the Jews were held responsible and punished. Thus in the 
ninth century the priest Boda accepted Judaism and ridiculed 


64 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


the Christians, going even so far as to beg the Mohammedan 
rulers in Spain to permit residence in that country only to 
Jews and Mussulmans, and not to Christians. Coystan Becele- 
lonus in 1005, in the reign of Henry II., wrote a pamphlet in 
which he addressed his former co-religionists thus: ‘‘ Fools 
read the prophet Malachai, who says in God’s name, ‘I am 
God, without change.’ How then can you believe that the 
Divinity underwent any change?” The culmination of all 
this was a renewed outburst of wrath and persecution directed 
against the Jews. 

The Christians did not consider the fact that he who ex- 
changes his religion for another, from any motive whatever, 
by so doing is held in enmity by his former co-religionists and 
his affirmations esteemed of no value. They declared that the 
spirit of Satan had seduced the Jewish proselytes, while at the 
same time they gave credit to all the calumnies uttered by the 
Christianized Jews and granted them power to compel the 
Jews to enter into dispute with them. For this alleged guilt 
of Satan they punished the Jews with restriction of rights, con- 
fiscation of property, or total exile. An instance is recorded 
of the conversion in London in 1275, during the reign of Henry 
II., of the great Dominican preacher Robert de Redinge to 
Judaism, who adopted the name of Haggai. The Christianized 
Jews of France and Spain were also the cause of great trouble 
to the Jews in those countries during the Middle Ages, though 
Christianity had been the dominant religion but for a short 
period. 

Of the more prominent controversies of that time may be 
mentioned that of Rabbi Nathan Haupniel, one of the writers 
of the commentaries called “‘Tosphoth” (Taanith IX., the 
Tosphoth beginning at ‘‘ Aser T’aser’’), known among Gentiles 
as Nathan Official, the colleague of Rabenu Tam and perfect 
under the Archbishop of Cens, with this same archbishop, and, 
near the close of the twelfth century, with Pope Alexander and 
the king himself. At this epoch the status of the Jews of 
‘France was one of peace and prosperity, and R. Nathan and 
his colleague, Rabenu Tam, were honored at court. The 
bishop attempted to prove by the passage, ‘‘ Let us make man 
in our image,” that the Trinity is meant, since the plural is 
used. R. Nathan’s answer was: ‘Before replying to this, I 





RELIGIOUS DISPUTES. 65 


desire to ask of you a question in law concerning myself. You 
are aware that I loan no money at interest (this he mentioned 
because the Jews were then charged with usury). I gave toa 
friend a sum of money with which to purchase merchandise, 
and in the profits arising from which I was to share. He trans- 
ported the goods to Paris, but finding that their market price 
had greatly diminished, he threw all into the Seine without 
consulting with me. I am therefore of opinion that I may de- 
mand of him to return to me the whole sum; for by what right 
did he inflict on me a financial loss without first asking my 
consent?’”’ The bishop replied: “You may without doubt; 
and according to my opinion you are entitled to additional 
compensation besides, since how dared he destroy your prop- 
erty?” “If that is so,” answered R. Nathan, “you will of 
course grant that God is at least as just as men, and if, accord- 
ing to you, he had created men with the assistance of the other 
two Persons of the Trinity, how comes it that he declares, ‘I 
will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the 
earth?’ [Gen. vi. 7], without first consulting the other Persons 
of the Trinity? They also were entitled to a part in disposing 
of man.’’ On another occasion, being asked why the Jews 
were obstinate in refusing to worship Mary, the mother of God, 
R. Nathan replied: ‘‘ Tell me, you who are so learned, whether 
the question never occurred to you: how was it possible that 
the idea of worshipping the golden calf entered the Jews’ minds 
after they had been witnesses, shortly before, of all the signs 
and wonders of the Eternal, and the thunders and lightnings on 
Mount Sinai?’’ The bishop replied: ‘‘ True; whenever I read 
this passage it seems a great problem tome.” “ But Iam not 
in the least surprised,” answered R. Nathan, with hidden irony. 
“The Jews saw that the gold when thrown into the fire was 
made into a calf, and they doubted not that the Holy Ghost 
had clothed itself in this precious metal; but you who affirm 
that the Holy Ghost became incarnate in a woman must needs 
remember that when God wished to give to the Israelites the 
Decalogue he warned them: ‘For three days you shall not ap- 
proach a woman’ [Ex. xix. 15]. How, then, can the Jews be- 
lieve, after this, that when He desired to endow Israel with a 
new testament, He should himself approach a woman?” Re- 
plies of this kind were numerous from R. Nathan, as well as 


] 
5 


66 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


from his sons Joseph and Asher. Thus it is also told of R. 
Joseph Bchor Shor that to the question, ‘‘ Why did God choose 
to appear to Moses in a thorn?” (“‘bush”’ in the incorrect ver- 
sion), he replied, ‘‘ Because from it no image can be made, nor 
can it be used to form a.cross.”’ 

These disputes, however, did not bring about the terrible 
calamities which usually followed those in the Middle Ages, 
Judith, the Queen of Louis the Saint, protected the Jews and 
their studies, preventing the priests from taking vengeance 
for such ironical expressions as those given above. When 
Bishop Bodo perceived that his aims were not furthered by the 
disputes, he prohibited altogether such controversies with the 
hated Jews. A few decades passed, and not only was this pro- 
hibition ignored, but the Jews were again constrained to dis- 
pute in the presence of Louis IX. and his wife, and the chief 
civil and ecclesiastical dignitaries, the latter representing Pope 
Gregory IX. It fell to the lot of the four rabbis, R. Jechiel of 
Paris, the disciple of Jehudah the Pious; R. Moses of Coucy, 
the famed travelling lecturer; R. Jehudah b. David of Melon, 
and R. Solomon b. Samuel, to dispute with the apostate Donin, 
who took the name of Nicolus. This man while yet a Jew had 
evinced a tendency, as it appeared to the rabbis, to rebel against 
Judaism, and therefore they had excommunicated him. In 
revenge, he went to Rome in 1239, and charged that the Tal- 
mud contained sacrilegious sayings as to Jesus Christ and his 
mother, and so distorted the Scriptures by its interpretations 
and comments that thereby the Diety was blasphemed. He 
further charged that it gave license to illegally deprive Gen- 
tiles of their property and granted permission to deceive them. 
The sum of his libel, which contained thirty-five points, was 
that the Talmud was the enemy of Christian truth and the sole 
cause of the refusal of the Jews to recognize the divinity of 
Jesus. 

It will be in place here, before further consideration of the 
character and consequences of this and many other disputes in 
which Jewish apostates were the accusers and disputants, to 
speak of the Jews of the Middle Ages, what they were, and, 
having in view only the truth, to expose their faults. For by 
their great intolerance, and their conduct towards all who en- 
tertained opinions of the least liberality, differing ever so 





Lae SEIT a 


Span ae 


RELIGIOUS DISPUTES. 67 


slightly from their own, they brought down upon themselves, 
as it were by their own hands, terrible calamities. There was 
at that period, as is well known, a division of opinion among 
the Rabbis themselves concerning the books of Maimonides. 
Many Rabbis excommunicated him after his death, and even 
defaced his epitaph; and the intolerant R. Solomon of Mont- 
pelliers, with his colleagues and disciples, resorted to the 
Flagellants and Dominicans for aid, saying: ‘‘ Behold, there 
are among us heretics and infidels, for they were seduced by 
Moses ben Maimon of Egypt. You who clear your community 
of heretics, clear ours too” (Karpeles, p. 346). They assented 
gladly, and the books of Maimonides were burned at the stake 
in Paris and Montpelliers. From the conduct of these fanatics 
towards that lion of Israel (they themselves avowed that he 
was infinitely superior to them in science and learning) we can 
conceive their terrible vengeance against an ordinary man or 
scholar when he ventured to express opinions in any degree at 
variance with their own, or to transgress the Sabbath by carry- 
ing a handkerchief or drinking of Gentile wine, which in their 
opinion is against the law. Who, then, could resist their ter- 
rible weapon of excommunication, which they used for the pur- 
pose of making a man a ravenous wolf whom every human being 
fled from and shunned as though plague-smitten? Many who 
drank of that bitter cup were driven to the grave, and many 
others went mad. But woe to the excommunicators if the 
excommunicated afterward received baptism from the Domini- 
cans! Then the vengeance of those who had been banished was 
fearful; like serpents they stung their former brethern, and 
caused misforttunes to thousands of souls who became as sheep 
for the slaughter. 

Thus on the 24th of July, 1240, the complete Talmud was 
brought by Donin to the royal palace, and R. Jechiel, who, 
because of the fact that he had disputed with many priests, had 
been elected head of the disputants, was asked by him, in the 
presence of the king and the whole assembly, whether he be- 
lieved in all that was written in all these books, now more than 
four hundred years old. To this R. Jechiel replied, addressing 
the king: ‘Our Talmud is not four hundred years old, but 
more than fifteen hundred, and this alone suffices to prove that 
the controversy concerning what is sazd in it is superfluous; 


68 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


for up to this time there have been Jewish apostates and many 
learned Christian priests who were conversant with its con- 
tents and found no evil in them. ‘‘ Hieronymus,” continued 
the Rabbi, “‘ known to all as a wise and devout Christian writer, 
who was familiar with Jewish literature, much better than 
this apostate sinner, would doubtless have sought the destruc- 
tion of the Talmud, if he had found therein such terrible things 
as this apostate alleges. Therefore I feel sure that this liar, 
who seeks our lives, will never attain his object; he may 
indeed deprive us of our lives, but not of our Torah, dear to us 
as the pupil of our eye. If you vent on us here in France all 
your anger, still will the Talmud be found in Spain, Greece, 
Babylon, Media and Mesopotamia, in possession of the Jews of 
these countries, and there you cannot reach to destroy it.” 
The king was not satisfied with this, but bade R. Jechiel give 
a direct answer to Donin. To this the rabbi answered that 
the moral and legal doctrines of the Talmud were held sacred, 
but that full credence need not be given to the Hagada, which 
should not be taken too literally, since it is for the most . 
part allegorical. The Ramban gave expression to a like 
opinion, but it would be superfluous to quote him entire. To 
the other accusations of Donin, that the Talmud terms the 
followers of Jesus Christ ‘‘Minim” (infidels), that it condemns 
Jesus, that it allows ill-usage of people of other nationalities, 
etc., he replied: ‘In the Talmud there is no mention of Jesus 
(Jesu) Christ, but only of another Jesus (Jeshua) who was a 
disciple of R. Joshua b. Prachia, who lived two hundred years 
before Christ; that the term ‘Minim’ in the Talmud includes 
all who deny the Oral Law; that it grants equality before the 
civil law to all men, idolators included; and commands visita- 
tion of sick idolators, support of their poor, and interment of 
their dead even in Jewish cemeteries. He also proved that 
according to the Talmud, the Christians are not included among 
idolators, since the prohibition as to sharing in divine power is 
directed only to Israel and has not been enjoined on other 
people; and, moreover, since the Christians abhor idolators, 
they cannot themselves be counted among them. There isno 
distinction drawn between them and Jews by the criminal 
laws of all civilized lands,”’ as well as in the Talmud. (See App. 
No. 15.) 





RELIGIOUS DISPUTES. 69 


Thus two days passed in disputing with R. Jechiel, whose 
replies were written down by a disciple and collected later in a 
book, ‘“‘ Joseph Ham’qane”’ (The Zealot). On the third day, 
R. Jehudah b. David, having been prohibited from holding 
intercourse with R. Jechiel the first two days, was called to the 
dispute, and when his assertions were found to agree with those 
of R. Jechiel, the controversy came to an end. 

The second dispute which must be noted is that started by 
the apostate Pablo Christiani, in July, 1263, with the rabbis of 
Spain. This was the reverse of the previous dispute, in that 
the first charged the Talmud with despising Jesus and Chris- 
tians, while this dispute endeavored to prove from the Talmud 
itself the Messiahship of Jesus; Pablo claiming that the book 
contained many such passages. Rabbi Moses ben Nachmani 
(Ramban) was selected as disputant. This controversy also 
took place in the royal palace in Barcelona, and lasted four 
days. The principal topics for discussion were: Whether the 
Messiah had already appeared or was still expected; whether 
he would appear as a warrior, to restore the kingdom of the 
Jews, or as God’s son, as Jesus. The passage, ‘‘the sceptre 
shall not depart from Judah until Shiloh come” (which the 
Jews also understand as referring to a Messiah), Pablo adduced 
as proof that after the destruction of the Temple and the fall 
of the Jewish kingdom it must of necessity be considered that 
the Messiah had arrived. Again, the Talmud itself says, “The 
Messiah was born when the Temple was destroyed,” and “ Eli- 
jah said to R. Joshua the son of Levi, The Messiah sits at the 
gates of Rome, among the sick,”’ etc. 

Thereupon Nachmani addressed the king. ‘ Know,”’ said 
he, “we possess three different books; before every other, the 
Bible, in which we implicitly believe; then the Talmud, which 
we hold sacred as an indispensable commentary on the biblical 
laws; but the third book, which we call Midrash, comprises 
mere sermons or speeches, which are listened to by the Jews 
but which exercise no authority over them. ‘‘The Hagada,”’ 
he continued, ‘‘is, as its name indicates, a mere collection of 
legends, fiction, a creation of fancy, communicated by one per- 
son to another, but not held by the Jews as dogma, and which 
I myself do not believe.’”” Then turning to Pablo, “I will reply 
directly to you as to the question at issue. If the Talmud, as 


70 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


you assert, regards the founder of your church as the true 
Messiah, why have not the Talmudists believed in him? Why 
did they not avow him, as you, Pablo, have done? For five 
hundred years have men been at work on the Talmud, and 
none had been convinced or induced to enter the church. 
Where,” he asked further, ‘‘is it to be found in the Bible or the 
Talmud that the Messiah will suffer at the hands of men? On 
the contrary, it is said of him, “‘ He will reign from sea to sea,” 
“Dwellers of the desert will kneel before him” and “nations 
will adore him,’’ which certainly was not the case with your 
Messiah, who, by the way, was born long before the destruction 
of the Temple of Jerusalem, and therefore the Talmudic pass- . 
age can have no reference to him. Rome had not your alleged 
Messiah to thank for its greatness; on the contrary, its power 
and dominion gradually declined after his advent, and since the 
birth of your religion a new creed, the world-dominating Islam, 
has arisen. Further, were the omens and prophecies of the 
Messianic time fulfilled? Of this the prophets predicted ‘that 
homicidal war will cease, a universal peace reign in the world; 
the swords will be beaten ploughshares, the spears into pruning 
hooks, and the harmless animal will graze by the side of the 
wild one;’ that ‘no injustice will occur, a moral elevation will 
ennoble men, God’s spirit will enlighten all peoples, and a uni- 
versal purified knowledge will be introduced.’ But since 
your Messiah appeared, numberless wars have disturbed man- 
kind, justice, morality, and brotherly love have not yet become 
the ruling principles of the world, your religious truths have not 
satisfied the adherents of Islam, and one God does not as yet 
reign on earth. If you make of your Messiah a God, then we 
cannot believe at allin him. The Messiah must be, according 
to the prophets, a man ‘out of the stem of Jesse’; he must be 
sprung a child born of ordinary parents, not a son of God need 
he be. Nay, the passage in the Talmud which you bring for- 
ward as favoring the Messiahship of Jesus, ‘that Messiah sits 
on God’s right, and Abraham on his left,’ shows him not to be 
a God, else could not the Talmud say directly after this ‘that 
Abraham’s countenance darkened on account of the favor 
shown the Messiah.’ Were he God’s son, surely Abraham 
would have known him as Divinity and have yielded to him, 
with no feeling of jealousy, the first place. The language of 





RELIGIOUS DISPUTES. 71 


the Talmud is peculiar, and by its assertion that the Messiah 
was born with the Temple’s destruction must be understood 
the revival among the Jews, through this barbarity and in- 
justice, of the hope of a Messiah. They assuredly do not 
accept him as Messiah who saw the light of day fully a hundred 
years before this event, and who, in spite of his sufferings, 
brought to the world neither salvation nor redemption. And 
how stands it with your assumption that your Messiah re- 
deemed the world from original sin? The penalties decreed for 
that sin still exist. Women still suffer pain in childbirth; in 
the sweat of the brow must the ground be ploughed, and Death 
still thins the hosts of the living—evils which, according to 
your construction of the Bible, result only from original sin. 
As to the passage quoted by you from the Bible, this is its 
significance: ‘The sceptre shall not depart from Judah eter- 
nally’—ad being equivalent to load (forever). The clear 
meaning of this is that Judah’s dependence, if he be con- 
demned to it, will not last forever, for the Messiah will come 
and restore to him his independence; simply, that he wll ap- 
pear, but is not yet come. For the rest,’’ continued Nach- 
mani, ‘“‘I do not long for the Messiah. With us it is accounted 
as of greater merit if we, living in foreign lands, among strange 
people, and under the protection of the king, worship our God, 
than if we, as free masters, adhere to the law in our own land.” 

Pablo was no match to Nachmani and his striking proofs. 
The next Sunday, King Jacob I. of Aragon appeared with 
Pefiaforte in the synagogue. The general of the Dominicans 
resumed the dispute, and sought to prove the Trinity by the 
simile of wine, which also contains a trinity in it, color, flavor 
and odor, and yet is one thing. Nachmani, however, refuted 
him, and demonstrated that to accept this argument would be 
to assume also a fifth person in God. Pefsaforte became per- 
plexed and replied that the Trinity is so deep a mystery that 
the angels are unable to comprehend it. When Nachmani 
had asked the modest question, ‘‘ Why, then, should men raise 
themselves above the angels to dispute about and to hold fast 
to so deep a mystery?” The king dismissed him with rich 
presents, adding these strange words: “I have never yet heard 
a wrong cause so masterfully defended.’ Nevertheless, 
Nachmani was banished. He did not, as contemporary 


72 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


ecclesiastical chronicles affirm, flee in deep shame, but was 
expatriated through the intrigues of the clergy, and emigrated 
to Palestine, which, in his opinion, should be a Mecca for every 
Jew, and arrived there shortly after Jerusalem had been re- 
duced to ashes by the Mongols. There he continued his labors 
in behalf of Judaism and compiled his commentary on the 
Bible. To his disciples whom he left behind it is related that 
he said, on their asking of him a sign of the day of his death, 
that his mother’s grave stone would be rent in twain. 

After seeing, however, that the dispute led to no satisfac- 
tory results, and that Nachmani and other Jews were not con- 
vinced by the argument of ‘“‘no salvation outside the church,”’ 
Pefiaforte changed his tactics and impeached the Talmud 
before Pope Clement IV., claiming that it abused and blas- 
phemed the founder of the church. The Pope appointed a com- 
mittee to examine the matter, and on their adverse report the 
obnoxious passages were stricken out, the erasing stylus was 
drawn through the pages of the Talmud by ignorant Domini- 
cans, and for the first time it was subjected to the fudgement 
of a censor. What a sad concurrence of historic events! 
Twenty years later the writings of Maimonides were again 
consigned to the stake at Acco through the efforts of the Kab- 
balistic fanatic Solomon Petit; in Tiberia the tombstone of 
Moses b. Maimon, the greatest thinker to whom Judaism had 
given birth in a thousand years, was shamefully dishonored 
and its epitaph replaced by the words; ‘‘ Here rests an excom- 
municated heretic.” 

Of far more importance were the attacks on Judaism and 
the Talmud in the dispute which took place at Tortosa, in 
Aragon, in 1413, under the supervision of Pope Benedict XIII., 
and which required no less than sixty-eight sessions. Long 
before this time the Jews had held polemics with Christian 
scholars, and the Jewish literature in defense of the faith 
which had been current in the thirteenth century, and which 
included also attacks on Christian dogma, was now in full 
bloom. Raymond Martin, a Dominican Hebraist and one of 
the censors of the Talmud appointed by the Pope, who treated 
the Talmud with comparative leniency, wrote against Judaism 
two hostile books under the titles “‘ Religious Dagger” (Dagger 
of Faith) and ‘‘Scourge for the Jews,’’ wherein arguments in 





RELIGIOUS DISPUTES. 73 


favor of Christianity were adduced both from Scripture and 
from rabbinical writings. These books were imposing not less * 
from their powerful logic than from their exhibition of pro- 
found scholarship, and the renowned Talmudist, R. Solomon 
b. Adereth, was called to refute them. The apostate Abner 
Alfonso Burgensis, a polemic of more danger to Judaism, at 
the commencement of the fourteenth century, wrote a number 
of controversial works against his former religion, to whom 
Isaac Pulgar replied with a trenchant satirical poem as well 
as an argumentative work. In 1375, Moses Kohen de Torde- 
sillas disputed in the church at Avilla with the renegade John 
of Valladolid, and soon after this proselytizing cardinal Pedro 
de Cuna challenged Shem Teb b. Isaac Shoprat to a public 
religious discussion. The latter published in 1380, a compre- 
hensive defensive work, ‘‘ Eben Bochan,”’ and also translated the 
Gospels into Hebrew to enable his co-religionists to arm them- 
selves from the Christian arsenal; they subsequently found 
themselves obliged to use these weapons only too often. In 
1391 occurred the first great persecution of the Jews in Spain, 
during which many, to escape the sword, embraced Christianity. 
Whereas the greater part of those who were forced into con- 
version usually returned to the fold of Judaism, some of these 
new Christians were, conversely, possessed by a great zeal for 
proselytizing, as, for example, the physician Astruc Raimuch, 
and particularly the former rabbi, Paul Burgensis, the latter 
of whom was a source of much mischief to his people. The 
satirical poet, Solomon Bonfed, the ingenious thinker Chasdai 
Crescas, the physician and philosopher, Profiat Duran, indited 
convincing replies to the attacks of these apostates. But in 
the foremost rank of these polemic writings stands the circular 
letter of Joshua Lorqui, which he addressed in an apparently 
submissive tone to his former teacher, Paul Burgensis, where- 
in, along with keen attacks on Christian dogma, he tells Bur- 
gensis that as a thinking and learned man he could not have 
accepted Christianity through conviction. When one reads 
this letter he must hold it almost a psychological impossibility 
that the man who adopted such an attitude towards Christian- 
ity should in later years have gone over to the Christian church 
and become a scourge to his co-religionists of the Jewish faith ; 
and yet this Joshua Corqui was, with scarcely a doubt, identical 


74 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


with him who later assumed the name of Geronimo Santa Fe, 
and came forward to impeach Judaism and the Talmud at the 
dispute in Tortosa. 

Benedict XIII., one of the three popes who were then striv- 
ing for dominion, had a particular interest in this dispute. This 
pope had-been deposed at the Council of Pisa as a heretic and 
perjurer, and had been excommunicated; in Spain, however, 
he was recognized as pope, and from that place he set in motion 
his plans to make himself universally recognized. If he could 
succeed in breaking the obstinacy of the Jews and effecting 
finally their conversion as a people, it would be a great triumph 
for the church, and for himself personally. From these motives 
he willingly permitted King Fernando of Aragon to invite 
Jewish rabbis and scholars to a theological discussion at Tor- 
tosa. Sixteen of the most prominent appeared at that mem- . 
orable dispute, which lasted, with many interruptions, from 
February, 1413, till November, 1414. The apostate Geronimo, 
the physician-in-ordinary of the pope, had arranged previously 
the following programme for the controversy. First he de- 
sired to prove from the Talmud that the Messiah must already 
have arrived. Should this argument be ineffectual, however, 
then a war to the death was to be declared against the Talmud, 
which sustains the Jews in their unbelief. When the Jewish 
notables appeared in the session hall on the first day, the thou- 
sand there assembled, presided over by the pope (who was 
pompously arrayed and seated on an elevated throne), made 
upon them an overwhelming impression. The pope himself 
opened the session with an address, wherein he laid emphasis 
on the fact that the question now was not as to the truth of 
Judaism or Christianity; Judaism once had been true, but was 
replaced by the later revelation. The discussion must turn 
only on the point whether, according to the Talmud, Jesus is 
the promised Messiah or not. Thereupon, Geronimo delivered 
a lengthy speech, which he concluded with the text, “If ye be 
willing and obey, ye shall eat the good of the land; but if ye 
refuse and rebel, ye shall be devoured by the sword.” In his 
reply, Don Vidal Benvenisti placed the apostate’s wickedness 
in its true light, inasmuch as he had threatened with the sword 
before any proof for or against had been brought. In the sub- 
sequent sessions, Geronimo cited passages, more or less famil- 


* 





RELIGIOUS DISPUTES. 75 


iar, from the Talmud and Midrash, to prove to the unbelievers 
that the Talmud itself, when rightly understood, attested 
Jesus’ Messiahship. But as the representatives of the Jews 
explained these passages according to their real meaning, and 
at the expiration of sixty-two sessions evinced not the slightest 
inclination to be converted, Geronimo, at the pope’s bidding, 
came forth as impeacher of the Talmud, asserting that it con- 
tained blasphemies and abominations of all kinds and must 
therefore be unconditionally condemned. To prove this, he 
wickedly or ignorantly perverted many passages. The Hal- 


-akha teaches, for example, in relation to the verse in Exodus 


xxi. 15, ‘He that smiteth his father or his mother shall be put 
to death,” that he only is guilty of death who wounds his 
parent by beating; from this Geronimo inferred that the Tal- 
mud allows the beating of parents. The Halakha also teaches 
in reference to blasphemy that ‘only he who blasphemes God 
by his name of four letters (Jehovah) is guilty of death,” and 
from this Geronimo concluded that the Talmud permits blas- 
phemy. Geronimo was also the first to affirm that the Jews 
may break oaths, in conformity to the prayer “ Kol-Nidre.” 
Every one at all familiar with this prayer knows that it is for 
forgiveness for the non-fulfillment of vows and oaths, taken 
unconsciously or broken through forgetfulness, and is but an 
argument in favor of the Talmud’s scrupulousness in this 
matter. The Jewish delegates defended themselves, it is true, 
with skill against these accusations, but were finally so hard 
pressed that they divided into two parties. Most declared 
that the passages of the Hagada brought forward by Geronimo 
had no authority; whereas Don Vidal Benvenisti and the relig- 
ious philosopher Joseph Albo declared that the Hagada was 
held by them as of full authority, but must not be construed 
literally and then judged. At all events, the pope did not 
succeed in causing even one of the delegates to waver or in 
effecting the hoped-for general conversion of the Jews. Driven 
to anger at his failure, he dismissed them in a very unfriendly 
manner, and soon thereafter issued a bull in which he inter- 
dicted the reading or study of the Talmud by the Jews, and 
ordered that search be made for copies of the book and they 
be then destroyed. He also directed that in Spain the Jews 
should live separately from the Christians, fill no official sta- 


76 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


tion, practice no trade, nor devote themselves to medicine. 
Fortunately the hostility of the pope had no effect. The 
Council of Costnitz deposed him; his former protectors, King 
Fernando and Emperor Sigismund, renounced his cause, and 
the fanatic Flagellator and preacher, Vincent Ferrer, preached 
openly “‘that such a man as this pope deserved to be persecuted 
to the utmost and to be killed by any good Christian.” Filled 
with rage at the issue of the dispute, Geronimo published later 
a voluminous book against the Talmud, and the apostate Paul 
Burgensis, who was elevated to the bishopric, composed in his 
eightieth year, a work hostile to Jews and Judaism. To these 
and similar attacks the Jews were free as yet to reply without 
restriction. Answers were published by Joseph Albo, Vidal 
ibn Lobi, and Josegh ibn Shemtob, defending their own creed 
and winging arrows at Christian dogmas also. Several dec- 
ades later the Jews of Spain were attacked not with the pen, 
but with the fist, not with spiritual weapons, but with physical 
force, and met with bloody persecutions till finally, in the total 
exile of 1492, the proud Spanish Jews were compelled to empty 
the cup of misery to the dregs. 


CHAPTER XIV. 


REUCHLIN, PFEFFERKORN, AND THE TALMUD IN THE SIX- 
TEENTH AND SEVENTEENTH CENTURIES. 


Joseph or John Pfefferkorn was a German Jew, who lived in 
the beginning of the sixteenth century. He was ignorant of 
worldly knowledge, and had but a very limited acquaintance 
with Jewish literature. He became a Roman Catholic to es- 
cape the penalty fora theft. The Dominican monks of Cologne, 
surbordinate to Hochstrater, the Judge of the Inquisition, re- 
ceived him into their community with great honor. Hoch- 
strater was a great fanatic and the enemy of every one who bore 
the name of Jew. His colleagues were Arnold Tangersky and 
Arthurin Gracia. This latter had committed to a Jewish apos- 
tate, Victor Karbensky (1504 A. c.), the task of writing a pam- 
phlet against Judaism. In this pamphlet the author brings 
various accusations against the Jewish people, the responsibility 
for which he places on the Talmud. He recounts fabulous 








REUCHLIN, PFEFFERKORN, AND THE TALMUD. 77 


charges of Jewish persecution of apostates, and complains that 
even the poorest and most criminal and hardened Jews subject 
themselves to all manner of hardships rather than embrace 
Christianity. The pamphlet concludes with these words: 
** All this is due to the Talmud, which is the source of all evil, 
and which the Jews hold in greater reverence than the ten com- 
mandments of God.’’ The Dominican monks found that this 
pamphlet failed of due effect, and asked Pfefferkorn if he could 
write a better one. He wrote the ‘ Warnungsspiegel” (The 
Mirror of Warning), wherein he pretended to be a friend of the 
Jewish people, and, for their own good, desired to introduce 
Christianity among them. He urged them to convince the 
Christian world that the Jews do not need Christian blood for 
their religious rites. He also tried to induce his Christian 
brethren not to persecute the Jews unto destruction; for, he 
said, the Jews are also, in a way, human beings. Along with 
these pretences of friendliness he evinces in the pamphlet the 
desire (and in this he was seconded by the Dominican monks) 
to take the Talmud by force from the Jews. ‘‘ The causes which 
hinder the Jews from becoming Christians,” said Pfefferkorn, 
“are three: first, usury; second, because they are not com- 
pelled to attend Christian churches to hear the sermons; and 
third, because they honor the Talmud.” Therefore he appealed 
to his co-religionists and the rulers to remove the first two 
causes; as to the third, he advised the government to take the 
Talmud from the Jews and burn it. But even this pamphlet 
was not wholly successful, because the rulers and the people 
understood that depriving the Jews of the Talmud would inure 
to the benefit, financially, of the Dominicans; for these latter, 
being the Judges of the Inquisition, possessed the power of de- 
claring the books harmless and of returning them to the Jews 
for a consideration. Therefore Pfefferkorn hastened to issue 
another pamphlet, in which he used harsher expressions, and 
tried to convince the people that the hatred of the Jews for 
Christianity was due solely to their religious books. He issued 
also a third pamphlet, on Jewish history, in which he con- 
tradicted what he had written in his first pamphlet. He said 
plainly that every Jew considers it a good deed to kill, or at 
least to mock, a Christian; therefore he deemed it the duty of 
all true Christians to expel the Jews from all Christian lands; 


78 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


even if the law should forbid such a deed, they need not heed 
or obey it in this respect. “It is the duty of the people,’ he 
said, ‘‘to ask permission of the rulers to take from the Jews all 
their books except the Bible,’ as well as all the pledges of 
Christians to be found in Jewish hands; also, that Jewish 
children should be taken away from their parents and educated 
in the Catholic religion. He concluded his work thus: ‘‘ Who 
afflicts the Jews is doing the will of God, and who seeks their 
benefit will incur damnation.” 

Although the religious hatred of the times of the Crusades 
was then far from extinguished, Pfefferkorn’s books did not 
find favor with the rulers, as the Jews were their chief treas- 
urers, from whom they at all times exacted enormous taxes. 
Therefore they did not desire to drive them from their terri- 
tories; and to compel them to embrace Christianity did not 
suit them either, as most of the Christians disliked Jewish 
apostates and looked upon them disdainfully since they well 
knew that in most instances they did not accept Christianity 
through belief in the religion, but from more worldly reasons. 
In addition to this, all the Jews of Germany, as also the physi- 
cians of the rulers, who were for the greater part Jews, did all 
in their power to prevent’ Pfefferkorn’s advice from being 
carried into execution. Many Christians, too, asserted that 
they were convinced that Pfefferkorn was bad at heart, a 
flatterer, and that his sole object was to enrich himself at 
the expense of the Jews. Therefore Pfefferkorn wrote a fourth 
pamphlet, in which he reiterated all he had written previously, 
and declared that the only way to be rid of the Jews was 
either to expel or enslave them; the first thing to be done was 
to collect all the copies of the Talmud found among the Jews 
and to burn them. Arthurin Gracia, who was the Censor of 
Art, revised and corrected Pfefferkorn’s works and rendered 
them into Latin and German, and sent them to all the rulers 
of the period. Besides this, the Dominicans addressed them- 
selves to the sister of the Emperor Maximilian, Princess Kuni- 
gunde, who was a nun in a Dominican convent at Munich. 
They begged her to intercede with the Emperor in behalf of 
Pfefferkorn. They eulogized Pfefferkorn, telling her of his 
knowledge of Jewish life and of his good character, and urged 
her to confide in him. Finally they persuaded her to give a 





REUCHLIN, PFEFFERKORN, AND THE TALMUD. 79 


copy of his pamphlet to the emperor, who was then at war in 
Italy with the Venetians. Asa result of all this, Pfefferkorn at 
once set out for Italy, and succeeded in obtaining from the 
emperor a decree that all the Jews of Germany should yield 
up their books to him (Pfefferkorn), to be revised by him; 
if he should find in them anything relating to Christianity, 
it should be destroyed. In this task he was granted the power 
to call to his assistance, in each city, a priest and two of the 
civic rulers. The Jews were warned under severe penalty not 
to resist the royal command. 

Pfefferkorn and his party of inquisitors first visited Magde- 
burg, for in that city dwelt rabbis who were renowned through- 
out the Jewish world; and although they resorted to every 
device to prevent the surrender of their literary treasures— 
even the Bible, the removal of which was not included in the 
royal mandate, was also taken away—every Jew was com- 
pelled to surrender his entire store of religious books. 

But many Gentile scholars, to whom Pfefferkorn’s conduct 
did not appeal, assisted the Jews by testifying before the 
emperor that Pfefferkorn was ignorant on many subjects, 
and that he wrongfully deprived the Jews of books contain- 
ing no allusions to Christianity; besides, they referred, in 
their request to the emperor, to the privileges accorded to the 
Jews, by previous emperors and popes, of worshiping in their 
own way. The Elector of Mayence, Archbishop Uriel, en- 
raged at Pfefferkorn’s action (we cannot learn why), sum- 
moned him to the city of Aschaffenburg, and informed him 
that the emperor’s decree was in opposition to the law of the 
land, as it made him prosecutor, witness, judge, and executor 
in one; therefore, the Jews or the people, in disregarding the 
decree, would be guilty of no crime against the law. He 
counselled him, in fine, to ask the emperor to alter the mandate 
to conform with law. Pfefferkorn agreed to do so, and the 
Dominicans of Cologne advised him to find a prominent Gentile 
who would actively interest himself in the matter. This man 
they found in Reuchlin, at that time very popular and respected 
all over the world. The Dominicans told Pfefferkorn to get a 
letter from Reuchlin to the emperor, before going again to see 
the latter. 

John Reuchlin, of Paszheim (1455-1522), had a great 


80 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


reputation as a scholar; in addition he had a benevolent 
heart. He devoted himself especially to the study of Hebrew, 
in which his interest was enhanced by Count Pick de Marsun- 
della, who opened up to him the study of Kabbala, z.e., Jewish 
mysticism. Even this did not satisfy his desire to be master 
of Hebrew. He formed the acquaintance of Jacob Laanson, 
a Jewish physician at the Court of Frederick III., from whom 
he acquired a further knowledge of the language; at this court 
he came in contact with many Jewish scholars, and attained 
to such skill in the study that he afterwards wrote a book where- 
in he praised Hebrew as the best of all languages. He claimed 
in this work that the dogmas and rites of false religions were 
due to the ignorance of Hebrew, and to the misconception of 
the meaning of significant Hebrew terms. As for the Kabbala, 
he ranked this study with any other branch of learning, and 
stated that he himself was far from understanding thoroughly 
its sublime mysteries, for a complete knowledge of which even 
a lifetime would scarce suffice. Afterwards, when he became 
the Ambassador of the Elector Palatine to the Court of Pope 
Alexander VI., he became acquainted with the physician 
Obadiah Eipminah, the renowned commentator on the Mishna; 
and it was interesting to see the celebrated German scholar, 
whose discourses in Italian were greatly admired by the Italians 
themselves, stooping to ask a Jew to be his teacher of Hebrew 
literature. It was always his habit, when he came in contact 
with learned Jews, to obtain some useful knowledge from them. 

Nevertheless, Reuchlin was not entirely free from prejudice 
against those of the Jewish faith. In a letter to a knight who 
desired to convert the Jews of his dominions to Christianity, 
he wrote that the whole trouble with the Jews was they were 
' disbelievers, who did not care for Christ and his apostles,and 
that they held in general contempt all Christians; although it 
is true that later he repented of having written this letter, as 
will be seen further on. 

The Dominicans relied on Reuchlin, knowing that the 
words of one so throughly acquainted with Hebrew literature 
would be respected by all the rulersof Germany. But Reuchlin 
declined to take an active part in the matter, although he com- 
mended the project of destroying all books written against 
Christianity. He also called Pfefferkorn’s attention to the 





REUCHLIN, PFEFFERKORN, AND THE TALMUD. 8r 


injustice of the emperor’s decree, and told him it was doubtful 
whether it could be executed. 

Despite his not securing the wished-for testimony, Pfeffer- 
korn succeeded in persuading the emperor to ignore the peti- 
tions of the Jews and their defenders, and to give him the power 
to deprive the Jews of their books, in a new decree, while 
harshly reproving them for failing to strictly obey the first. 
This time the emperor commissioned Archbishop Uriel to 
carry out the decree. He also ordered him to seek, and to 
follow the advice of the German universities of Cologne, May- 
ence, Erfurt and Heidelberg, and also to take counsel with 
Reuchlin, Victor Karbensky and Hochstrater (although the 
latter was totally ignorant of Hebrew). Uriel commanded 
the director of the University of Mayence, Herman Hess, to 
visit all the cities of Germany, and to remove all the Jewish 
books. Hess did so. He travelled through Germany accom- 
panied by Pfefferkorn; and in Frankfort alone fifteen hundred 
manuscripts were taken away (printed books were as yet rare). 
They did the same in Worms, Lorch, Birgin, Lamuven, Mayence 
and Dertz. Pfefferkorn said that the Jews, to save their 
literary treasures, offered to enrich him, but he claimed he did 
not care to sell his soul and therefore did his duty. 

The Jews on the other hand, did not cease in their efforts 
to prevent their despoliation. They secured testimonials from 
the more prominent among the Gentiles, and sent a committee 
to the emperor to petition him to prevent these attacks on 
their religion. They adduced proofs to show that their books 
contained nothing against Christian communities. They 
brought forward the privileges granted to them by former 
emperors and popes, enabling them to worship their God with- 
out the interference of the Church or State. These facts so 
favorably impressed the emperor that he commanded that all 
the books should be returned to their owners. The joy of the 
Jews on learning of this decree cannot be described, since 
thereby not only were they granted possession of their books, 
but a peaceful residence in Catholic countries was accorded 
them. 

This joy, however, was only momentary, as both the Do- 
minicans and Pfefferkorn still continued their malevolent 


activity. Toadd to the misfortune of the Jews, an event befell 
6 


82 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


which the Dominicans were not slow to utilize as a weapon in 
their warfare against, the faithful, with the aid of which they 
hoped finally to bring about the latter’s destruction. Sacred 
vessels were stolen from a Christian church by a Gentile, who 
was arrested and who thereupon confessed that he had sold 
them to the Jews. As a result, all Jews were severely perse- 
cuted by the Bishop of Brandenburg. At the same time, or 
somewhat later, the Jews were accused of having killed a Chris- 
tian child in the performance of their religious rites, and at the 
command of the same bishop the accused Jews were removed 
to Berlin, and thirty-eight of them were burned at the stake 
after suffering tortures on the rack. 

These events the Dominicans made use of to arouse the 
fanaticism of the people of Germany. They addressed them- 
selves to the emperor’s sister, Kunigunde, to whom they 
painted these occurrences in the blackest colors, at the same 
time extolling Pfefferkorn as a converted Jew conversant with 
Jewish customs and manners. They stated that the Talmud 
contains the evil teachings which had become rooted in the 
hearts of the Jews. They represented to her the danger to 
Catholicism in the latest command of the emperor, and placed 
all their hopes in her keeping, as she was the only one who could 
save Catholicism from injury. At the same time they strove 
to find favor in the eyes of the people who protested against 
this persecution. A new pamphlet was prepared, in Pfeffer- 
korn’s name, which was dedicated to the Emperor Maxi- 
milian, praising him for his zeal for the Catholic religion. 
This pamphlet, after complaining that the Christians do not 
give full weight to the activity of the Jews against Catholicism, 
and charging that the whole fault lay with the Talmud, since 
its teachings prevented the Jews from embracing Christianity 
and permitted usury, affirmed that the one thing necessary was 
that the emperor should deprive the Jews of his books, and that 
it was the duty of all good Christians to help him in this matter, 
furthermore, that this cause met the approval of the emperor’s 
sister, the nun Kunigunde. It further stated that all Christians 
who defended Jews should be treated as heretics, and Jewish 
apostates who did the same should be presumed to have taken 
up Christianity, not from belief in the Holy Trinity, but for 
baser reasons. The Princess Kunigunde actually interceded 


Bre 








REUCHLIN, PFEFFERKORN, AND THE TALMUD. 83 


for them, and, presenting herself before the emperor, she 
begged him on her knees to grant the request of the Dominicans. 
The emperor again ordered Archbishop Uriel to hasten to seek 
the advice of the above-mentioned German universities, and 
especially to get the opinion of Reuchlin, Karbensky and Hoch- 
strater, and transmit the same to him (the emperor), so that 
he might be prepared to judge whether or not the Talmud 
should be destroyed. 

Reuchlin did not hasten to give his answer, and when, after 
three months his answer was composed, and delivered to the 
emperor, it was found to be unfavorable to Pfefferkorn. In 
this answer he divided Jewish literature into six classes, ex- 
clusive of the Bible, as follows: (1) poetry, fable and satire; 
(2) commentaries; (3) sermons, songs and prayers; (4) phi- 
losophy and science; (5) the Talmud, and (6) Kabbala. ‘‘ In the 
first class,’ said Reuchlin, ‘“‘are to be found books which deny 
or criticize the Christian religion ;” but he could name but two 
of them of his own knowledge, and these were the pamphlet 
of Lipman (of the existence of which we have no records) and 
the life of Jesus. He declared, however, that the Rabbis them- 
selves prohibit the possession of them by Jews and threaten 
severe penalities upon any one venturing to read them. “‘It 
is self-evident,’ he stated, ‘“‘that this class of books must be 
destroyed without scruple.”’ 

With regard to the second class, he affirmed that they not 
only contain nothing harmful to Christianity, but, on the con- 
trary, they are of great value in the interpretation of the Scrip 
tures. Many Gentile scholars, could not, in many cases, 
fathom the depths of meaning of the Bible, because of insuffi- 
cient knowledge of Hebrew. “It is true,’’ he said, “ that scholars 
had been heard to declare, we do not care for the Jewish com- 
mentaries, as we have asufficient number by Christians.’’ He 
compared these same to a person wearing a light garment in 
cold weather, since the basis for right understanding of the 
Scriptures is the knowledge of the original language wherein 
they were written. 

‘‘ As for books of the third class, it would be an injustice 
to deprive the Jews of them, because they had received from 
emperors and popes the privilege of unmolested worship. 

“Regarding the fourth class,” he said, “they stand on an 


84 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


equal footing with books of the same class in Latin, Greek or 
German. But of the Talmud I must own that it is to mea 
sealed book, and it is evident that those who pass judgment 
upon it have as little knowledge of it as I. They have no idea 
of its nature; or of its history; nevertheless they talk as if they 
knew and understood clearly all that it contains. I can only 
compare such people to those who would venture to criticise 
algebra while they are totally ignorant of the rudiments of 
arithmetic. The fear is expressed that the Talmud might 
injure Christianity; this is absurd for nothing can withstand 
the proofs in its favor that are found in the Bible. If the Tal- 
mud really were as bad as they affirm, then our ancestors, who 
~ were much more religious than we, would long ago have put an 
end to its existence.” He declared that the testimony of Pfeff- 
erkorn and Schwartz against it, being inspired by unworthy 
motives, should not be given consideration. ‘‘ Moreover, if 
we would but study the Talmud we would not destroy it, but 
rather encourage the Jews to hold it in still greater reverence 
and study it the more assiduously, for as a consequence there 
would be copies not alone in Germany, but also in Italy and 
Turkey, where many colleges for its study exist. To what 
purpose is the burning of a few copies of the Talmud, if you are 
unable to annihilate it entirely? Besides, by such action we 
should commit a breach of faith for we would thus abrogate the 
privileges granted to them by former emperors and popes.”’ 
Regarding the sixth class, he praised the Kabbala in the 
highest terms, and cited Count Picko de Mirandella, who, he 
says, induced Pope Sixtus VI. to study it; the latter discovered 
in it so much in support of Christianity that he translated 
Kabbalistic books into Latin. Reuchlin concluded that to 
deprive the Israelites of their books could only be likened to a 
duke challenging a knight to combat and then taking away his 
weapons. He advised the German rulers who were desirous 
of having the Jews embrace Christianity, to establish in all the 
German universities for a period of ten years, chairs for the 
study of the Hebrew language; then the students having a 
thorough knowledge of the language, could convince the Jews, 
by proofs from their own Bible, of the truths of Christianity. 
Returning again to the apostates (he plainly referred to Pfeffer- 
korn, though he did not name him), he said: ‘“‘Of what value 








REUCHLIN, PFEFFERKORN, AND THE TALMUD. 85 


is advice given by people who abandon Judaism through 
jealousy, animosity, fear of persecution, penury, revenge, 
ambition, love of pleasure, or even through mere recklessness? 
Such individuals bear the name of Christians, but in heart they 
are not Christians. I know of some whose faith in both re- 
ligions, Christianity and Judaism, is weak, and who, if their 
schemes were brought to naught, would become disciples of 
Mohammedanism. The Jews have been citizens of Germany 
for three centuries and should be protected by the law. It 
would be ridiculous to adjudge them heretics, for they were not 
born Christians, but have been Jews from a time antecedent 
to the birth of Christianity. 

However, the answer of the German universities was differ- 
ent. The theological faculty of Mayence replied that not only 
were the Talmud and all rabbinical books full of falsehoods and 
heresies, as Christian scholars testify (the faculty themselves 
confessed that they were ignorant of the Talmud and Hebrew), 
but that the Hebrew Bible also was not altogether free from 
error on points of Christian doctrine. The faculty deemed it 
advisable, therefore, that the books be revised by Christian 
scholars, and if anything be found contrary to Christian belief 
it should be burned. 

The University of Erfurt counselled in like manner, but 
the Faculty of Heidelberg advised the emperor to select a 
committee from the faculties of all the universities of Germany 
to judge the Talmud and all Jewish literature, and let their 
decision be final. 

Reuchlin sent his answer under seal to Archbishop Uriel, 
but by some means not recorded its contents became known to 
Pfefferkorn before it reached the emperor. When he and the 
Dominicans had perused it they were greatly perturbed. They 
were aware of the esteem in which Reuchlin was held by the 
emperor, and the weight his answer would be given to by the 
latter, and resolved to do something to weaken the effect of this 
answer on the emperor and the public. (In their haste to fore- 
stall Reuchlin they did not consider the risk to themselves in 
making public his answer before it reached the emperor.) A 
pamphlet was issued under the title of ‘“‘Handspiegel,’’ in 
Pfefferkorn’s name, couched in flowing sentences, giving 


_ prominence to all the weak points in Reuchlin’s answer, charg- 


- 


86 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


ing him with ignorance, abusing him and ridiculing his theory 
and misrepresenting it to the common people. The pamphlet 
stated that Reuchlin himself understood nothing of the Hebrew 
language, and that his book on Hebrew grammar was written 
by other hands; therefore, they asked, how can such a man 
counsel the emperor in matters of which he himself is ignorant? 
It stated, further, that Reuchlin’s declaration that the Jews 
must be protected by the law proves the utter absurdity of his 
whole answer, and that it may be justly suspected he did not 
do this for nothing. To add force to their contention, they 
published a letter which Reuchlin himself had written to a 
knight five years before, and called upon Reuchlin to deny his 
statement in this letter that the Jews slander Christianity; 
his refusal to do so would indicate a desire to wantonly mis- 
lead the emperor and all good Christians. It said, moreover, 
that the fact of Reuchlin’s renown among the Jews alone 
showed that he had fallen a victim to their wiles. At the end 
of the pamphlet, Pfefferkorn charged Reuchlin with having 
accepted money from the Jews, and blamed him for defending 
them, since it was his duty to regard them only as heretics. 
He also charged Reuchlin with countenancing usury (nothing 
about this was mentioned in Reuchlin’s answer). 

As Reuchlin was well known and much respected in Ger- 
many, this pamphlet made a commotion, and the people 
evinced a desire to read it, to learn of what Reuchlin was ac- 
cused. As it was written in the popular jargon, many went 
on fair days to Frankfort-on-the-Main to purchase the pam- 
phlet from Pfefferkorn. Reuchlin himself was astonished at 
Pfefferkorn’s impertinence, and annoyed at the imputation 
on his honor; he therefore complained to the emperor. The 
latter, angry at the action of Pfefferkorn, promised Reuchlin 
that he would entrust the task of the revision of the Jewish 
books to the Bishop of Augsburg; but the emperor being at 
that time deeply occupied with matters of state, this affair 
was for the moment forgotten. Meanwhile a second fair was 


held at Frankfort, and Pfefferkorn hoped to distribute the 


remaining pamphlets among the people. As soon as this point 
in the contest was reached, Reuchlin resolved, since the quarrel 
had from a religious become a personal one, to uphold his 
wounded honor. He wrote a work entitled ‘‘ Augenspiegel,”’ in 





REUCHLIN, PFEFFERKORN, AND THE TALMUD. 87 


which he complained that a Jewish apostate should endeavor 
to destroy the Talmud. He told the public how Pfefferkorn 
had come to him, asking his co-operation, and how by despica- 
ble means he became aware of the contents of his answer to the 
emperor, so as to be able to heap more calumnies upon him. 
He charged that there were thirty-four lies in Pfefferkorn’s 
pamphlet. He said, further, that he had not lost hope of facing 
Pfefferkorn in court, and that the latter had merited the sen- 
tence of death for inciting the people against the Jews. He 
declared the charge that he had received money from the Jews, 
a false one, adducing many proofs to show that the Domini- 
cans and Pfefferkorn merely intended to stain his name. He 
further proved that he himself had written the Hebrew gram- 
mar. To the main accusation, that he had learned Hebrew 
from a Jew, he replied that Christianity did not forbid Chris- 
tians from having dealings with, or learning from, Jews, 
especially as this was often productive of good in the con- 
version of the Jews. 

Now, instead of Pfefferkorn’s pamphlet, Reuchlin’s was 
distributed at the fair, and was sold in large quantities to the 
people. The Jews it is fair to believe, greedily bought the 
work and did their utmost to spread it among the people. A 
preacher named Peter Mayer, of Frankfort-on-the-Main, while 
reading Reuchlin’s pamphlet in the presence of Pfefferkorn, 
exclaimed that it ought to be burned at the stake; and, with 
the sanction of the Archbishop of Mayence, he prohibited its 
sale. But the priests of Mayence, all friendly to Reuchlin, at 
their convocation begged the archbishop to recall the prohibi- 
tion and he consented. In a short time all Germany was in 
possession of copies of the work, and Reuchlin received many 
congratulatory letters. However, the strife was not yet over. 
His enemies did everything they could to overthrow Reuchlin. 
Paul Mayer, after his attempt to suppress the sale had proved 
futile, announced that Pfefferkorn would lecture on Reuchlin’s 
books in the Catholic Church during the coming holidays. As 
Pfefferkorn was a married man, and not a priest, and therefore 
unable to preach from the pulpit, he lectured in the hall of the 
church in the popular jargon, holding a cross in his hand. The 
burden of his lecture was that the Jews should be persecuted 
unless they accepted Christianity. It was the first time in the 


88 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


history of the church that a Jew had stood in the corridor of a 
church with a cross in his hand and preached against the Jews. 

The monks meanwhile gave Reuchlin’s work to Arnold 
Tangersky for revision, and he naturally, being himself a 
Dominican, denounced it as heretical. The Dominican, Ulrich 
of Sternheim, wrote a letter to Reuchlin, in which, speaking as 
a friend, he says: ‘‘ The scholars of Cologne are not yet united 
in their opinion as to what should be done with your work. 
Some of them maintain that it should be burned; others say 
the author should be punished; and still others are stronger in 
condemnation of it.’’ This letter did not fail of its purpose. 
Reuchlin understood full well that if the Dominicans openly 
declared against him, he would be in great peril, since at that 
time their power was supreme and they were feared even by the 
emperor himself. The Pope, Alexander VI., himself exercising 
a power to which kings themselves were subject, declared he 
would offend a rule sooner than the humblest Dominican. 
Reuchlin hastened, therefore, to indite, in Latin, a letter to 
Tangersky, the reviser of the book, in which he modified his 
previous statements. He said he judged the Talmud, not as 
a theologian, but as a layman, and he could not know, when 
writing his book, that the scholars of Cologne would disagree 
with him. He also stated that he had not intended to cast 
blame on any one in his pamphlet, and besought Tangersky to 
show him his errors in the ‘‘ Augenspiegel”” and not condemn 
him before doing so. He wrote a letter of a different tenor to 
his teacher, Koln. In this he ventured to blame the head of 
the Dominicans, Hochstrater, whom he charged with having 
written the pamphlet under Pfefferkorn’s: name, and he begged 
him to explain his words to the faculty, so that they would see 
the truth and not blame him (Reuchlin) unjustly. The re- 
sponse to this letter to Koln was not sent to Reuchlin for a long 
time. The Dominicans obviously sought, by delaying it, to 
furnish him a pretext for committing an overt act. He-finally 
received together two letters, one from the Cologne’ students 
-and the other from Koln. The faculty scolded him for inter- 
fering in a quarrel which did not concern him, and at the same 
time preventing the emperor from performing a meritorious 
act in suppressing the Jewish books. This fact, they claimed 
and his writing the ‘‘ Augenspiegel,’’ went far to confirm the 





REUCHLIN, PFEFFERKORN, AND THE TALMUD. 89 


suspicion that he inclined to Judaism, and therefore it was 
their duty to punish him severely. They could not, however, 
refuse the request of Arnold Tangersky and of Koln to defer 
punishment until he was given opportunity to write a second 
pamphlet, retracting all his words in defence of the Talmud 
and in blame of Pfefferkorn. 

Koln wrote him that he should feel grateful to him for in- 
ducing the faculty to withhold his sentence and for pacifying 
the Dominicans. At the same time, he reminded him of the 
danger which hovered over him, and advised him to hasten 
and repair his error by another pamphlet, contradicting all his 
previous statements. As to Reuchlin’s accusation that the 
pamphlet “‘ Handspiegel’’ was from the pen of Hochstrater he 
maintained complete silence. 

Reuchlin at once answered his enemies in two letters. He 
thanked them for their intercession in his behalf, but claimed 
_ that as a married man (even twice married) he could not be 
longer counted among theologians, and therefore knew very 
little of the teachings of faith. He also cited proofs showing 
that he was not a friend of Judaism or the Jews. Nevertheless 
he refused to contradict the statements contained in his first 
pamphlet; on the contrary, he reiterated them, but asserted 
his willingness to write a commentary on his ‘“‘ Augenspiegel,”’ 
explaining any ambiguous passages therein. He again urged 
them to point to him the passages because of which they accused 
him of heresy, saying that only then could he either defend his 
assertions or confess that he was in error and revoke them. The 
Dominicans, seeing that correspondence was of no avail, com- 
manded him, first, to stop the circulation of his pamphlet; 
secondly, to contradict all he had previously said; thirdly, to 
restore the lustre of his name by showing himself a good Chris- 
tian and a persecutor of the Jews and their literature. If he 
should refuse to do this, he must stand trial before the judges 
of the Inquisition. Koln also wrote him again, saying that 
but for this (Koln’s) pleading, Reuchlin’s pamphlet would long 
before have been burned and himself brought before the Inqui- 
sition; therefore he again urged him to respect the command 
of the faculty, as, should he fail to accede to their order, he 
could do nothing more for him. 

Reuchlin, seeing that further argument was useless resolved 


go THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


firmly to take up the gage of battle, happen what may. First 
of all, he replied that he could not stop the circulation of his 
work, since it was no longer his, but was the property of the 
publisher. He could only write a commentary as an explana- 
tion of doubtful passages. To his supposed friend Koln, he 
wrote that if the latter had indeed prevented his work from 
being burned, the faculty should feel grateful to him (Koln) 
for restraining them from doing wrong, but that he himself 
entertained no feelings of gratitude for it. He told him he 
did not fear a contest with the Dominicans, as he had many 
defenders, men of prominence and power in Germany, and if 
the matter were attended with any danger it was to his enemies. 
It was easy, he said, to begin a fight, but much more difficult 
to gain a victory. He could not understand why his enemies 
failed to consider how the people would judge them if they took 
the part of a Jewish apostate against a born Christian and a 
firm believer in Christianity. He was certain that Pfefferkorn, 
if thereby he could derive any benefit, would become an apos- 
tate even to Mohammedanism or any other religion. To 
think that Pfefferkorn should preach against the law of the 
land and columniate him! The Dominicans, he continued, to 
seek to accuse him of trivialities, and close their eyes to the 
many great sins of the apostate. He also said that poets 
and writers of history would stamp with shame the entire 
faculty, and would make of him (Reuchlin) a martyr for the 
truth. 

Reuchlin kept his promise of writing a commentary to his 
‘“‘ Augenspiegel,’’ but it had the effect of adding fuel to the fire. 
The Dominicans were more than ever enraged, and Tangersky 
wrote a pamphlet which he dedicated to the emperor, and 
which contained the following concerning Reuchlin’s interfer- 
ence in religious matters which are above his understanding: 
“‘In his pamphlet one can see that he favors the Jews, and in 
keeping with this he has written sentences which border closely 
on heresies.”” The work concludes by saying that it is un- 
-doubtedly necessary to put the Talmud to the stake. This 
pamphlet effected what the author had intended. The em- 
peror, who had hitherto defended Reuchlin, now turned against. 
him, and on his arival at Cologne he commanded that Reuch- 
lin’s pamphlet and commentary should not be circulated. The 





REUCHLIN, PFEFFERKORN, AND THE TALMUD. og1 


Elector of Mayence, acting in conjunction with the Archbishop 
of Cologne, displayed this order on the churches, and threatened 
the public with excommunication if they did not return Reuch- 
lin’s pamphlet to the churches. But even this failed of the 
desired effect, for Reuchlin’s friends were too numerous, greater 
even in number than those of the Dominicans; the people had 
but small liking for the latter, and they especially despised the 
head of the order, Hochstrater. Therefore Pfefferkorn issued 
a new pamphlet, entitled ‘‘ Brandspiegel,’’ wherein Reuchlin 
was accused and debased. Therein he was styled a man who 
had forsaken the church, and whose hands were sullied with 
Jewish bribes. As for the Jews Pfefferkorn stated that they 
ought to be persecuted without pity, and incited the people to 
plunder them and devote the spoils to convents and hos- 
pitals. This was Pfefferkorn’s last pamphlet, from this time 
he ceased to take part in the fight. Reuchlin, under a pseu- 
donym, wrote another pamphlet, “‘The Defender.’ In this 
he says: “‘If any one asserts that Reuchlin did not, in the Jew- 
ish controversy, conduct himself as a true and upright Chris- 
tian, he utters a fasehood.”’ He attacks all the Cologne schol- 
ars, especially Arthur Gracia and Jacob Hochstrater. “‘Why,”’ 
he asks, “do they make such an uproar and hold themselves up 
as greater authorities than other scholars of German universi- 
ties?’’ And to the emperor he says: ‘‘ Permit, your majesty, 
the Dominicans to judge the Jews by the Inquisition, that will 
fill their pockets with the gold and silver ofthe Jews. Thatis 
what they want; obtaining it, they will then leave me unmo- 
lested.’”” To Arnold Tangersky, who accused him of protecting 
the Jews, he says: “It is true I am the protector of the Jews. 
I protect them against false accusations. I know that my 
assertion that they are citizens of Germany and entitled to the 
protection of the law, as other citizens are, will excite their 
enemies; but I say and repeat again, the Jews are our brothers 
—brothers to Arnold, brothers to the Dominicans, brothers to 
all the theologians, and the fathers of the Church long ago made 
a like declaration.’’ To the assertion of the Dominicans that he 
contradicts what he had written in his former letter, he replies 
that it is true he had been prejudiced against the Jews until he 
was convinced of his error. The calumny that Jewish prayers 
MAINTAIN that all Catholic rulers should be put to death he 


92 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


refutes by quoting a Mishna: “‘Thou shalt pray for the peace 
of the kingdom wherever thou abidest.”’ 

This pamphlet was sent to the emperor, who received it 
favorably, and, owing to the complex questions involved, his 
mind wavered in the course he should pursue. First he as- 
sured Reuchlin of protection against the attacks of the Domini- 
cans. Then his father-confessor, an enemy to Reuchlin, spoke 
in favor of the Dominicans, and the emperor again prohibited 
the circulation of Reuchlin’s work. Finally he commanded 
both parties to cease their strife. Even this command failed 
of its purpose. The imperial decree was unheeded by the 
Dominicans, and the head of the Inquisition, Hochstrater, 
summoned Reuchlin to appear within six days before the judges 
of Mayence to defend himself against the charges of heresy and 
of defending the Jews. This summons was couched in lan- 
guage unprecedented in its insolence. Reuchlin did not appear 
at the trial, but sent a deputy. Hochstrater opened the court. 
He was both prosecutor and judge, and was certain that the 
trial would result in the success of his scheme against Reuchlin, 
and would cover the latter with ignominy, more especially as 
he had received favorable opinions from the German universi- 
ties that had been ordered to afford counsel. The University 
of Loewen had replied that the pamphlet should be burned, 
that of Cologne, that besides its misleading nature, it showed 
decided leanings to heresy; the University of Erfurt gave an- 
swer of like import. Those of Heidelberg and Mayence alone 
did not respond. MHochstrater therefore felt sufficiently sup- 
ported and certain of winning the trial. He recited a long list 
of grave accusations against Reuchlin, and gave it to his col- 
leagues of the court, calling upon them to adjudge the defend- 
ant guilty and order his pamphlet to be burned. Reuchlin’s 
deputy protested that Hochstrater had no right to be perse- 
cutor and judge in one; the less so as he was known to be Reuch- 
lin’s bitterest enemy. Seeing, however, that protest was of no 
avail, he left the court, Hochstrater, hesitating to sentence, 
contrary to public opinion, one who was not present, posted 
notices on church doors, requiring Reuchlin’s deputy and all 
who had an interest in him, to appear before the court. He 
also ordered the public, on the pain of excommunication, to 
return the copies of the ’‘ Augenspiegel” to the judges of the 











eS 3 nl ae im tM aE on 


$ 
; 

Ws 
¥ 

x! 
A 
ba 
*e 
ae 

an 
Fb 
ii 
“ 
. 
Al 
§ 





REUCHLIN, PFEFFERKORN, AND THE TALMUD. 93 


Inquisition. The Dominicans triumphed that day and Reuch- 
lin’s defeat was seemingly close at hand. But this triumph 
was only of brief duration. The people of the better class of 
the city openly murmured against Hochstrater’s proclamation 
and even the archbishop’s colleagues advised that the trial be 
delayed for a short period, since Reuchlin or his deputies had 
not undergone examination. 

The trial was therefore postponed for two weeks, Hoch- 
strater thinking that Reuchlin would be ashamed to appear 
in person as a defendant, and feeling certain that at the 
expiration of two weeks he could be adjudged guilty by 
default. But Reuchlin did appear in person with the coun- 
sellor of the Duke of Wiirttemberg, and that of the Duke 
of Mayence. The ‘Kapital’? endeavored to make peace 
between the two parties, but in vain. The inquisitor Hoch- 
strater refused to listen to overtures of peace, and ordered the 
judges to do their duty. They obeyed and began to write 
down their judgment, when suddenly a rider appeared with a 
letter in his hand from Archbishop Uriel. He passed through 
the crowd and straight to the judges, who were much aston- 
ished and anxious to know the contents of the letter. It was 
read aloud to the assembled people, and was to the effect that 
Archbishop Uriel commanded the postponement of the trial 
for one month, and if this command were disobeyed he would 
declare it a mistrial and dissolve the court. The Dominicans, 
defeated, left the court amidst the laughter of the people. 
There was much rejoicing among the Jews, as upon this trial 
depended their fate; but Reuchlin was not content with the 
mere postponement of the trial, knowing that the Dominicans 
would persecute him until they conquered. He determined, 
therefore, to leave his fate to the decision of Pope Leo X. But, 
learning that the Dominicans would bribe the advisers of the 
pope and persuade him to order the trial to be held in Cologne, 
he wrote a letter in Hebrew to the pope’s physician, Bangett 
Delakes, beseeching his influence to prevent this. Leo, in- 
volved just then in grave secular matters—religious questions, 
for the time being, having no place in his councils—and seeing 
his quarrel likely to spread over Europe, directed the bishops 
of Speyer and Worms to end the contest by issuing a decision 
which should be respected by both parties. These bishops 


94 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


appointed a committee to investigate and report on the matter. 
The committee, though in awe of the Dominicans, conducted 
their investigation deliberately, and at the end of a year pro- 
nounced the pamphlet “‘ Augenspiegel’’ free from any heresy, 
and Reuchlin to have no leanings towards Judaism or the Jews. 
They therefore permitted its circulation and ordered Hoch- 
strater, on the pain of confinement in a monastery, to pay to 
Reuchlin 300 gulden as the costs of the trial, and threatened 
him with excommunication if he disobeyed the order. 

Hochstrater then appealed to the pope for an impartial 
trial, hoping that by a liberal use of the wealth of the Domini- 
cans, since Reuchlin was poor, the latter would suffer defeat. 
He also sent Reuchlin’s ‘‘ Augenspiegel’’ to the University of 
Paris, esteemed the greatest university of the time, urging it to 
condemn the pamphlet. He appealed also to all of Reuchlin’s 
opponents and all who were zealous for the welfare of the Catho- 
lic Church to unite against him. Reuchlin’s friends were not 
idle. Realizing the evil exerted by the Dominicans through- 
out the world, they, together with a body of Catholics called 
““Humanists’’ who sought the reformation of the Church, united 
under Reuchlin’s flag and termed themselves ‘‘ Reuchlinists.”’ 
The opposing party adopted the name “‘Arnoldists.’”’ These 
were the two parties that occupied the public mind before 
Luther began the Reformation. 

Many scholars of young Germany went over to Reuchlin’s 
side, particularly Hermann von Busche, Croates Rinbianes, 
and the young and sagacious Ulrich von Hutten; also many 
of the rulers, among whom were Duke Ulrich of Wiirttemberg 
and all his family, Count Halfenstein of Augsburg, Count von 
Guernor of Patriz, Welsen, Pirkameier, Neitiger, as well as 
many Italian priests, notably the General of the Augustinians, 
Eggodia de Viterba, who loved the Hebrew literature and was 
at that time engaged in translating the ‘‘Zohar.’”’ Viterba said 
in his letter to Reuchlin: “ You have saved the books which 
have spread light all over the world for centuries, and if they 
_ were lost, darkness would ensue. And in supporting you, we 
shield not you but religion; and not the Talmud, but the com- 
munity of Christ.” 

The strife spread all over Germany, and there was scarcely 
a city in which were not to be found either Reuchlinists or 


CZ 


ae 





a - te wi -~ oo = 
La cegataitx nite ig ee tiie aie = PE See =’ 
A EE Nt See Sn ee a ae 


2 OGLE RES 


ae eS ee ee NSS 


—— - A all 
SS 


cae 





REUCHLIN, PFEFFERKORN, AND THE TALMUD. 95 


Arnoldists—the former, for the preservation of the ‘‘ Augen- 
spiegel’”’ and the Talmud; the latter, for the destruction of 
both. The contest became each day more intense, and 
although the victory was with Reuchlin, he was still anxious 
as to Hochstrater’s appeal to Rome, since the latter had great 
influence there. His friends therefore advised him to publish 
all the letters he had received from all parts of Germany and 
Italy, to convince the pope of the character of the man the 
Dominicans were persecuting. Among these letters was one 
from the Emperor Frederick praising Reuchlin in glowing terms 
and testifying that he was held in honor and repect by the 
father of the pope, Lorenzo de Medici. 

These efforts of Reuchlin and his friends brought about the 
appointment by the people of Cardinal Gremama, a lover of 
rabbinical literature and Kabbala, as investigator and judge of 
the quarrel. The Cardinal summoned Reuchlin and Hoch- 
strater to appear in Rome, and as Reuchlin was very old, he 
was allowed to send a deputy. MHochstrater, however, ap- 
peared in person with all his wealth. This did not, however, 
disturb Reuchlin, as he had many friends at Rome. Even the 
Emperor Maximilian interceded for him with the pope. 
Among his other defenders was the emperor’s secretary, 
Wurke, Duke Ulrich of Wiirttemberg and the Elector of Sax- 
ony, Frederick the Wise (later the chief supporter of Luther). 
Many bishops also defended him, notably those of Strassburg, 
of Constanz, of Speyer, and numerous other churchmen. Hoch- 
strater spent large sums of money to procure the appointment 
of Cardinal Bernardine de Santa as assistant to the judge, but, 
through the influence of the Reuchlinists, Cardinal Pietro 
Ankenotini de Sant’ Isemblia was selected by the pope for this 
office. The pope’s committee forbade any discussion of the 
matter until the sentence of the judges of Rome was announced. 
But the Dominicans heeded neither this command nor public 
opinion, and, in order to influence the pope, they even threat- 
ened, should Reuchlin be victor at the trial, to secede from the 
church and unite with the Hussites of Bohemia. They also, 
in defiance of the prohibition of discussion, placed hope in the 
University of Paris, for at that period France and Germany 
were in conflict in secular matters, it naturally befell that on 
religious questions also their views were diametrically opposed. 


96 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


So the University of: Paris, though in heart and conscience in 


full accord with Reuchlin, nevertheless, for purely worldly | 


reasons, felt compelled to render an unfavorable opinion of him 
and of his works, stating that the “ Augenspiegel’”’ contained 
heresy and should be burned, and that its author should be 
compelled to make full retraction. The Dominicans hastened 
to published this reply ‘from Paris in a pamphlet entitled 
‘““Glocke”’ (bell), in the name of Pfefferkorn, although for this 
action Hochstrater was indicted by the Fiscal of the Emperor. 
The emperor’s sister, Kunigunde, again kept Hochstrater 
from imprisonment. The Dominicans employed every means 
to delay the trial, so as to increase Reuchlin’s expenses, think- 
ing that, since he could not afford the necessary expense at- 
tached to it, he would forego trial. Reuchlin’s friends repre- 
sented to the public Hochstrater’s evil designs, and at the same 
time appeared a collection of letters ““From the Benighted 
People.’’ The first volume, written in a satirical style, pro- 
fessed to be from the pen of Krate Rubian of Leipzig, and con- 
tained confessions by Dominican monks of their evil deeds 
since the existence of the Order. These letters were quickly 
spread throughout the entire west of Europe despite the pro- 
tests of the Dominicans, which protests, indeed, only furthered 
their circulation.. Hochstrater, fearing lest the trial would end 
in Reuchlin’s favor, demanded that it be given to an interna- 
tional council, since the matter concerned the entire Catholic 
Church. The pope, who was, as it were, placed between two 
fires, the German Emperor and rulers, on the one hand, and the 
King of France and the heir-apparent of Germany (who sided 
with the Dominicans), on the other, resolved to place it before 
the Council of the Lateran and all Europe. 

Two years passed; the strife had not yet ended, and Reuch- 
lin became sad at heart. He feared that his friends would fall 
away from him, seeing no immediate prospects of the close of 
the quarrel; he also feared, as he was advanced in years, lest 
he should die before its settlement, and the Dominicans win 
the battle, while his name would become a reproach. These 
fears were unfounded, as his friends did not weaken in their 
support of his cause. Finally, on the 2d of July, 1516, the 
result of the trial was announced at a session of the council, 
signed by Bishop Gregory Bengiani, as follows: The pam- 


iiietrensiccinnccenscs 








ai 2 Een FS ‘ 
PR : 


REUCHLIN, PFEFFERKORN, AND THE TALMUD. 97 


phlet, ‘‘ Augenspiegel,”’ contained no heresy. The error, in such 
an assumption, rested with the Paris University, and the other 
faculties in agreement with it. The Bishop of Malta added 
that the Judge of the Inquistion, Hochstrater, who considered 
himself one of the main pillars of religion, ought to be indicted. 
Under Bengiani’s signature were written those of the other 
cardinals, except that of the Dominican Cardinal, Sylvester 
Priervis. As the pope himself had not yet acknowledged or 
sanctioned the sentence, Hochstrater did not despair, and, 
with the aid of his friends, he begged the pope to delay the 
execution of the sentence for an indefinite period, hoping to 
bring, at a future time, the trial before another council and 
obtain a decision in his favor. The pope commanded the 
parties to terminate their quarrelings and cease all discussion 
of the matter, under the impression that a command from him 
would put an end to it. He was mistaken; the strife grew in 
intensity and spread over Germany. Both factions were 
more than ever determined to continue. 

When Hochstrater returned from Rome his life was in 
danger from the Reuchlinists, and only by the efforts of Reuch- 
lin himself was bloodshed prevented. The Dominicans lost 
all favor with the public. This did not, however, prevent the 
Dominican, Peter Mayer, from lecturing in all the great 
churches against Reuchlin and his party, and abusing him in 
the vilest language. Finally, roused to violence by his words, 
the Dominicans slew some of the Reuchlinists. This resulted 
in a rupture between the pope and the Dominicans. But when 
the second volume of “‘The Benighted” letters appeared, 
wherein the Dominicans were painted in the blackest colors, 
they begged the pope to shield them from the wrath of the 
people. This time he listened to them, and prohibited the cir- 
culation of the pamphlet. This command was unheeded, as 
the light of knowledge was beginning to spread over the 
world, and the satire was read by many priests and monks of 
other orders than the Dominicans; and, at the same time, the 
Humanists distributed pamphlets and circulars against the 
Dominicans. 

After no long interval, a second edition of ‘‘ The Benighted”’ 
letters appeared, to the joy of the Reuchlinists. The Domini- 
can leaders saw now that there was a rupture in the Catholic 

7 


98 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


Church, and announced to the pope that the people ridiculed 
their teachings and would not obey the doctrines of Catholi- 
cism. This time they told the truth. Hitherto, sufficient 
credit had not been accorded public opinion by the rulers, 
although the influence wielded by Luther was almost wholly 
due to it, and he acknowledged that the controversy between 
these two great parties had paved the way for the Reformation. 
After Maximilian’s death, the strife became still more intense, 
and the topics most often heard were those of the Talmud, 
Reuchlin, Luther, and the Reformation. At the meeting of 
the electors of Germany, to choose an emperor, they all sanc- 
tioned Reuchlin’s actions. Ulrich von Hutten persuaded the 
knight, Franz von Eickingen, to separate himself from the 
Catholic Church and join Reuchlin and Luther. This knight 
and his companion, Dalkery, with many other friends of Reuch- 
lin, demanded that Hochstrater pay the sum of 111 gulden to 
Reuchlin to defray the costs of the trial at Speyer, and also 
give bonds not to further molest .Reuchlin. The Dominicans 
were fully aware that this command must be obeyed, unlike 
that of the emperor or the pope, which they would have un- 
. hesitatingly disobeyed. They were compelled to pay the above 
sum, but as the treasury of the government was empty, the sum 
did not go to Reuchlin, but to the government. Hochstrater 
was deposed from his post of Judge of the Inquisition, and a 
committee of monks requested the pope to do all in his power 
to end the strife, and allow Reuchlin to live in peace, since he 
was a great scholar and a firm believer in Christianity. The 
Talmud attained new prestige, since henceforth the pope looked 
upon it with favor, and even persuaded Daniel Bamberg, of 
Antwerp, a famous printer, to issue a complete edition for the 


first time in its history. And, so, in the year 1520, the Baby- | 


lonian Talmud appeared, with all the commentaries, in twelve 
volumes, and from this all later editions have been copied. 
Reuchlin in his last years was compelled, like Luther, to leave 
his home and seek an abiding place where he could live in 
peace. Later, when Luther sent delegates to the prominent 
rulers of Germany, the pope was forced to adopt the suggestion 
of the Dominicans and excommunicate Luther, and at the 
same time prohibit Reuchlin’s works. But both the excom- 
munication and prohibition were publicly burned by Luther 











) 
y 
thy 
um 
‘ 
i" 
n 
4% 
i 


THE FRANKISTS. “ 


on the roth of December, 1520. From this time on, Luther 
threw off the chains of the pope, and inaugurated the Reforma- 
tion. Again, and for the last time, Pfefferkorn appeared with 
a new pamphlet against Reuchlin, but it received no counte- 
nance; on the contrary, he was abused by all factions; and his 
suggestion to expel the Jews from Frankfort was denounced 
by all alike. After this event, nothing more was heard of him. 
As soon as the Reformation was established, Reuchlin was 
called to take the chair of Hebrew in the University of Tiibin- 
gen, where he taught many students. He died in 1522, to the 
great grief of his admirers. Reuchlin was generally credited 
by the Reformers with being one of the initiators of the Refor- 
mation. 


CHAPTER XV. 


POLEMICS WITH MUSSULMANS AND THE DISPUTES WITH 
THE FRANKISTS 


The Jews were not exempt from disputes with scholars of 
Islam also during the first years of the latter’s history, but these 
disputes differed from those with the Christians in that they 
did not involve the Jews in calamities. In addition to the oral 
disputes, many controversial books appeared between the ninth 
and the sixteenth centuries, among which were the books of 
Saadiah the Gaon against the Karaites, which the Karaites 
answered, not with arguments, but with scoffing. A great 
quantity of books were issued by the Karaites in which they 
ridiculed the Rabbis, in particular Saadiah the Gaon, who ex- 
posed their weaknesses. Like service was performed by the 
book of Samuel ben Chaphni Hakohen, entitled ‘To Exalt the 
Value of Theological Studies,” against whom the Karaite 
Samuel ben Jehudah Eben Agia wrote a pamphlet under the 
title ‘‘Strenuous Denial.’’ R. Jehudah Halevi’s “ Hakusri’’ and 
Maimonides’ controversial letters also had for their aim the 
strengthening of the foundations of the creed. 

But the strife raged with the greatest intensity in Spain in 
the middle of the twelfth century. First appeared the book on 
“Sepher Habrith” by R. Joseph Kimchi. Following: this 
came controversial works by R. Jacob b. Reuben, R. Moses b. 


100 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


Tikun, and R. Moses b. Solomon, of Saliri, the title of the 
latter’s book being ‘‘A Word of Faith,’’ in which he records 
disputes with Christians; by R. Jechiel b. Joseph, of Paris, R. 
Nathan, of Upsala, R. Joseph, and R. Meir b. Simeon, in his 
book “The Battle of Merit,’’ in which are related his disputes 
with the Archbishop of Narbonne; and by R. Mordecai b. 
Tehosaph in his book, ‘‘The Strengthener of Faith,’’ written 
against the Christian, Paul Christianus, who had held many 
controversies with Ramban and others. 

In reply to the book of Abner of Burgos, who adopted the 
name of Alphonse of Valladolid, and who wrote much that was 
hostile to Judaism, appeared works by R. Isaac Ebn Palkara, 
as well as by R. Joseph Shalom, under the title of ‘‘ A Reply to 
Alfonso’s Writings.”” How great a degree of tolerance the Jews 
manifested in this controversy may be seen from what Moses 
of Narbonne wrote of Abner, his former friend—namely, that 
he was intelligent and virtuous, but dispairing; unable to 
endure the calamities heaped upon the Jewish people; not 
content with the peace to his soul, but seeking also worldly 
happiness; and, reading in the stars that the Jews destiny was 
to suffer and bear trials, he fell into the error of thinking that 
they would never again be strong as a nation, and counselled 
them as he himself had done, to accept Christianity, not submit 
to their fate. R. Moses de Torsilla also wrote a book entitled 
‘Aid to Faith”’ (1374), consisting of seventeen chapters, in the 
form of a dialogue between professors of the two religions. In 
all these books it is declared that the Hagadas of the Talmud 
are not authoritative but are to be regarded barely as fiction, 
and as devoid of any sacredness. In Germany also appeared 
in defense of Judaism the work ‘“ Book of Victory” (Sepher 
Nitzachon), by the excellent writer, R. Lipman of Muelhausen, 
which appears to have made so deep an impression that the 
Bishop of Brandenburg, Stephen Batekei, felt it necessary to 
reply to it. 

Lastly may be mentioned the two disputes which took place 
between the Rabbis and the Frankists in 1756-1757, at the com- 
mand of Bishops Dembovsky and Micholsky, in Kamenitz, 
Podolsk and Lemberg, cities of Poland. These terminated the 
disputes which the Jews were compelled to hold with their 
opponents in the presence of the people and dignitaries. They 


= 


2s 


“a 


"GPRS OILS Ae 


ge i on 


pkee “ an 


¥ en 


eae 
al 


eer 


Se om We ete ys es Soa 
Sel IR TEAR EDIE LPR 


io 


Sma 


tae ex: Sit 


wh es ers 





ry 
&y 
at 
‘ 
wr 4 
FD 
he 
By. 
Da. J 
we 
er 
me) 
<i 
a 
4 
’ 
a> 
aod 
he 
a 
4 
ex) 
on 
{BA 
ti 
ms 
x 
f 
+a 
rs 
2. 
4 
Rei a 
» 





THE FRANKISTS. jie 


were distinguished by the fact that the Frankists impeached 
the authority of the Talmud on the strength of the Midrash of 
R. Simeon b. Jochai, termed ‘‘Zohar,’”’ which they considered 
sacred, while they regarded the Talmud as profane. These | 
disputes were further distinguished by the circumstance that 
the founder of the Hasidismus, R. Israel baal Shem Tob, was 
elected as the chief disputant to represent the Rabbis, forced 
to dispute with the Frankists in Micholsky’s presence. The 
Frankists were an offshoot of the sect of the false Messiah, 
Shabattai Zvi, who produced a storm throughout the whole 
world in the year 1654. One Jacob Frank, a Polish Jew, 
accepted Islamism at Salonica, where he joined the sect of 
Shabattai Zvi, who were seeming Mohammedans and were 
called Dauma. In 1754 he arrived in Poland and set to work, 
with the assistance of two Rabbis, Moses and Nachman, who ac- 
companied him, to revive the creed of Shabattai Zvi. The fol- 
lowers of Shabattai Zvi, who still remained in Poland, received 
him with open arms, and entered upon an open propagation of 
the mischievous teachings. The Jews thereupon informed the 
ecclesiastical authorities of the country of their activity, which 
so alarmed them that they hastened to the Bishop and asserted 
their belief in the Trinity, and that they were not Talmudic 
Jews, but followers of the Zohar—‘‘Zoharites.”” They peti- 
tioned Bishop Dembovsky of Kamenitz to force the Jews to dis- 
pute with them and thus afford them opportunity to prove that 
the only true belief is in one God in three persons, incarnate in 
the flesh, and the teaching of the Talmud all vanity, etc., a re- 
habilitation of all the old slanderous charges. The Bishop 
ordered the dispute to begin in May, 1754; and the Jews, not 
appearing at the appointed time, incurred a heavy fine therefor. 
In June of that year there assembled at Kamenitz thirty Rab- 
bis, from whom were chosen as disputants R. Leib Meziboz, R. 
Bar Jozelovitz, R. Mendel Satanow, and R. Joseph Kremenetz; 
and about the same number of Frankists, headed by Leib Krim 
of Nadvarna, Soloman Shur of Rahatin and Nachman of 
Bushk. The pleading of the Rabbis that in the Zohar and in 
all the books of Israel there is no hint of a Trinity, which was 
purely an invention of the Frankists themselves, was of no avail, 
for Dembovsky decided against the Jews and fined them 5,000 
gold guldens, to be paid to the Frankists, and also directed the 


102 _ THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


Jews to dispute with the latter whenever called upon; one 
hundred and fifty gold guldens were likewise to be paid by the 
Jews for the repair of the Christian Cathedral at Kamenitz. All 
copies of the Talmud were to be burned, although the Jews ap- 
pealed to the King, August IIT., against this decree of Dembov- 
sky, claiming that they possessed the right, accorded to them by 
previous rulers, to print the Talmud; and although they were 
sustained in this contention by many princes of the kingdom, 


yet, owing to the political and religious turmoil then existing’ 


throughout the kingdom, the king or his minister, could give no 
heed to the matter, and the Jews were forced to submit to the 
decree of the bishop. Shortly thereafter, however, Dembovsky 
died a sudden death (the result of an injury received, it is 
related, from a fire which consumed the Talmud), and was suc- 
ceeded by Labinsky, who showed no favor to the Frankists. The 
Jews, with the help of the government officials and an expendi- 
ture of money, effected the expulsion of the Frankists from 
their residence near Kamenitz, for being neither Jews nor Chris- 
tians, and they suffered persecutions. They were compelled to 
shave part of their heads and half of their beard; insults and 
indignities were heaped upon them, and many fled to Turkey. 
But even there they found no rest; they were relentlessly perse- 
cuted, and Elisha Ratin, one of their leaders, was beaten to 
death. They therefore betook themselves to the frontiers 
between Poland and Turkey, in constant peril of their lives 
from the people of both nations. When their condition became 
unbearable, they turned again to the king, and begged him to 
restore to them the freedom granted by Dembovsky. In this 
they succeeded; the king permitted them in May, 1757, tosettle 
undisturbed in the province of Podalia. And thus they re- 
turned to Poland, in poverty and rags. In this state of deg- 
radation Frank advised them, in order to better their condition, 
to embrace Christianity. They therefore, in January, 1758, 
sent a petition to the Bishop Labinsky by six of their leaders, 
asking that they be received into the Catholic Church and be 
granted permission to dispute with the Talmudic Jews, who 
drink the blood of Christian infants, etc. Labinsky replied 
that it was not in his power to improve their material condition ; 
their acceptance of Christianity could affect only their spiritual 
welfare. They again addressed themselves to the king, in May 





ee ee ae 








THE FRANKISTS. 103 


of the same year, but their petition was not answered. Labin- 
sky suddenly resigned his office and Micholsky was chosen his 
successor. The latter exhibited a great zeal for proselyting, 
and the Frankists hastened to present their petition to him, 
requesting permission, before being baptized, to dispute again 
with the Jews. Perhaps, they urged, they might succeed in 
convincing the Jews of their great error and madness and in 
inducing them to accept Christianity too. Micholsky acceded 
to this request, and ordered the Jewish Rabbis to assemble at 
Lemberg on a day appointed by him. 

At the time set for the dispute there came in sorrow to Lem- 
berg, forty of the chief Rabbis of Poland, at their head Israel 
Besht of Mezibuz, and chose as disputants three of them— 
Besht, the Rabbi of the district, Haim Rapoport, and R. Bar 
Jozelovitz. The disputants for the Frankists were Frank him- 
self, Leib Krim, and Solomon Shur. | 

The dispute lasted three days, beginning June 23, 1758, and 
the hopes of the Frankists for a victory were shattered. Though 
Micholsky and many Polish nobles sided with them, they failed 
to prove that the Zohar contained anything that favored their 
religion. The judges, even, utterly disagreed with the dis- 
tortions to which they subjected the passages of the Zohar and 
Kabbalistic books. The Jewish Rabbis departed in peace, 
without being fined, and the petition of their adversaries, that 
a district in Poland be set apart for their dwelling, was refused, 
and they were invited to receive baptism. Thus ended favor- 
ably for the Jews the last of these peculiar disputes. The Jews 
made efforts to induce the Frankists to become Christians as 
soon as possible, that there might in future be no relationship 
between them. In this they succeeded, and since that time, 
between the Frankists, as Christians, and the Jews there has 
been nothing in common in either religious or secular matters. 


104 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


CHAPTER XVI. 


THE PERSECUTIONS OF THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY, THE HEAD 
OF WHOM WAS JOHANN ANDREAS EISENMENGER. 


The victory of Reuchlin, and the establishment of the Ref- 
ormation by Luther, in the sixteenth century, did not stop 
the persecution of the Talmud. It was ever renewed by men 
of rank in the different countries. The most dangerous of 
them was Johann Andreas Eisenmenger, who spent almost 
all his lifetime in the destruction of the Talmud and its stand- 
ard-bearers; and it seems miraculous that he did not succeed. 

Eisenmenger was born in 1654, at Manheim. In 1666 he 
came to Heidelberg where he found grace in the eyes of Prince 
Carl Ludwig, who was pleased with Eisenmenger’s determina- 
tion to learn the Hebrew language. Prince Carl Ludwig sent 
him, at his own expense, to travel in different countries to be- 
come accomplished in the study of Oriental languages. But 
when Eisenmenger was about to visit Palestine, the prince 
died (1680), and he established himself in the City of Amster- 
dam, where he lived for some time in friendly relations with 
the Hebrew scholars and with Rabbi David Lida of that city. 

At the end of the same year it happened that three Gentiles 
circumcised themselves and embraced the Jewish faith. This, 
according to Eisenmenger’s own confession, angered him al- 
most to death. And this occurrence made him determine to 
write a voluminous book on the ‘‘wickedness”’ of the Tal- 
mud, in order (he said) to save Christianity from danger. 

He worked hard and successfully for nineteen years; trans- 
lated into German from 193 different Hebrew books, and a 
considerable number of pages from various Tracts of the 
Talmud itself. 

This book, which he named “‘ Endecktes Judenthum’”’ (Un- 
veiled Judaism), containing two volumes of more than a thou- 
sand pages each, he gave in the year 1700 to the printers of 
Frankfort-on-the-Main. 

The Jews of that city got wind of it, and being afraid that 
this book would cause a renewal of massacres of Jews, such as 
took place in the cities of Franken and Bamberg in 1699, where 








to 













ee 


“ aXe 
Sn arg PS 
~eSe 2 Ps Se 


a Kipal aoe 


EISENMENGER. 105 


houses and other Jewish property were destroyed by the mob, 
appealed to Sampson Wertheimer, who was then the banker of 
Emperor Leopold, that he should point out to the emperor the 
dangers which such a book would lead to. 

Remembering that after the destruction of Jewish property, 
the mob, in the above-mentioned places, turned to the palaces 
sof the noblemen, the Emperor commanded the Governor of 
Frankfort to stop the printing of the book, and to conceal all 
that was printed of the same, until a careful examination of 
the book by Gentile and Jewish Hebrew scholars would be 
made. 

In spite of the assistance of many prominent men in the 
German Empire, who petitioned the emperor to release the 
books, he retained his decision and paid no attention even to 
the special personal letter from the King of Prussia in behalf 
of Eisenmenger. When Eisenmenger died in 1704, his books 
had not yet been redeemed from their captivity; and only in 
1711 did Frederick I, King of Prussia, republish the book at 
his own expense, from a copy which was in the hands of Eisen- 
menger’s heirs, donating all the copies to them. It would take 
too much space to relate the proceedings of Eisenmenger him- 
self, and those of his heirs against the Jews of Frankfort, and 
the various decisions of the courts from the time of Leopold 
to that of the Empress Maria Theresa. We do not deem it 
necessary to recount them, since they are in no way related to 
the subject of the persecution of the Talmud.* 

We have only to say that in the eleven years since the book 
was given to the press in Frankfort, until the circulation was 
permitted in K6nigsberg, its influence was weakened, so that 
it did not cause very much harm at that time. 

Thereafter, however, many anti-Semites made use of the 
material gathered in this book, quoting it as being directly 
from the Talmud without mentioning Eisenmenger; probably 
because of his notoriety as an enemy of the Jews. . 

Concerning the book itself, we would refer the reader to 
Professor Franz Delizeh’s book, ‘‘Rohling’s Talmudjude,”’ 
sixth edition, 1881, and many other criticisms of Eisenmenger’s 





* The details are given in Graetz’s (‘‘ History of the Jews”), Hamelitz, 1888, by 
David Kahan. 


106 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


work by Gentile Hebrew scholars, such as Professor Strack 
of Berlin and others. 

We have refrained from stating our own criticism of the 
misinterpretation of the quotations from the Talmud, chiefly 
because we do not deem it necessary to study Eisenmenger’s 
book for criticism. As for the explanation of the Talmud, 
we do not need to use him as our guide; and also in order to 
avoid apparent partiality; since we are ourselves the bearers 
of the Talmud’s banner. (See App., No. 16.) 


CHAPTER XVII. 


THE POLEMICS AND THE ATTACKS UPON THE TALMUD IN THE 
NINETEENTH CENTURY. 


The nineteenth century was the jubilee of the Talmud’s 
2,000 years since its beginning, and the twelfth century since 
its conclusion, in which it overcome all attacks directed against 
it and remained safe, not only bodily but spiritually. This 
did not prevent the anti-Semites from renewing the persecu- 
tions and the accusations of it with increased energy. 

Although the accusations were not brought to a public dis- 
pute, and to the intervention of the government, still the pole- 
mics in books and pamphlets were greatly increased by different 
persons in different countries. We do not desire to linger on 
these books, as their discussion would take up too much time 
and space, still we cannot refrain from mentioning them briefly, 
as they pertain to the history of the Talmud. 

In 1848, A. Biichner, a teacher in Warsaw, printed a book, 
“Der Talmud in Seine Nichtigkeit,”” and according to Strack, 
Jacob Kittseer also printed a volume called ‘‘Inhalt des Tal- 
muds und seine Autoritat,”’ etc, both in the German language. 
The contents of these two books were mainly attacks upon 
attacks, and accusations upon accusations, rained down upon 
the Talmud in general and its followers in particular. 

At the same time a missionary, McCaul, printed a book in 
the English language, entitled “‘ The Old Paths,” and S. Hoga, 
an apostate and also a missionary, translated it into Hebrew. 
The latter edition was distributed gratis and in tens of thou- 











LYOTOSTANSKY AT THE TIME OF ALEXANDERIII. 107 


sands among the Hebrews. We cannot deny that it was some- 
what effective, as it caused many Jews to embrace Christianity. 

At about the same time Isaac bar Levinson of Kremenetz, 
named the Russian Mendelssohn, wrote a book, entitled ‘‘ Teuda 
b’Israel,”’ in which he collected all the sayings of the Talmud 
relating to the following topics, (a) that every Jew is obliged 
to learn the language of his country; (b) to engage in scientific 
pursuits; (c) that he must learn some trade and occupy him- 
self, if possible, with agriculture, and (d) that he must be 
patriotic to his country, and must respect the laws of his coun- 
try just as much as the laws of the “Torah,” etc., etc. This 
book was so excellent that the eye of Nicholas I., Emperor of 
Russia, was attracted to it and he assisted Levinson both 
morally and financially. Finally he presented him with 3,000 
roubles to enable him to publish his later works, ‘‘ Zerubbabel,”’ 
in which he proved the falsehood of the misinterpretations 
of McCaul in every respect, “‘ Beth Jehuda,”’ and “‘ Efes Damin” 
(no blood), written against the blood accusation. His books 
were so effective that as a result McCaul’s books were almost’ 
ignored. 

The later affair in Alexander II.’s reign, however, we intend 
to elaborate on more fully, as at that time it created a great 
stir in Russia. 

In 1876 a Roman Catholic priest, Lyotostansky by name, 
who embraced Greek Catholicism, published a book in the 
Russian language which he entitled, “‘ Upotreblayut li Jewreay 
christansky Krov?’’ (Do the Jews need Christian blood for 
religious purposes ?) 

This book, which contains about 300 pages, was dedicated 
to Alexander III., then Crown Prince of Russia. He accepted 
the dedication with thanks to the author. 

Lyotostansky, desiring to have the thanks of the Crown 
Prince publicly made known, printed posters announcing the 
Crown Prince’s thanks for the dedication, and set them up 
everywhere, even on the railroad cars. 

The dailies and periodicals in Russia also announced the 
works favorably owing to the fact that the book found favor 
in the eyes of his highness, the Crown Prince. The contents 
of the book are chiefly attacks upon the Talmud, accusing it 
of being the source of all the bad customs of the Jews, etc. 


108 -THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


A meeting of the prominent Jews was then called and reso- 
lutions were passed as follows: 

First, that Lyotostansky’s attacks upon the Talmud itself 
should be silently ignored, for a debate on this subject in 
Russia would do the Jews more harm than good. 

Second, to republish and distribute the voluminous book 
of Prof. Chwolson, who was a Christian, which defends the 
Talmud in general, and conclusively proves, both theoretically 
and practically, that the blood accusation is a trumped-up af- 
fair, and that all investigations in many countries have shown 
that no instance occurred in which the Jews used Arhrishion 
blood. 

Third, to republish the ‘‘ Ukase”’ (decree) of Nicholas I., 
which declared that no blood accusation for religious purposes 
should be. directed against the Jews as a people, and that if it 
should happen that a Jew be accused of murdering a Christian, 
he should be tried as an individual merely. 

As is well known, there are people who endeavor to benefit 
themselves from all current calamities, and to announce them- 
selves as leaders without considering that from such actions 
the calamity or affliction may become still greater. 

At that time there were two such men, one in Russia and 
one in Austria, who desiring to make themselves popular, 
endeavored to place themselves in the front ranks of the de- 
fenders of Judaism for their own benefit. 

In Russia there was Alexander Zederbaum, publisher of 
the periodical ‘‘ Hamelitz’’ in St. Petersburg, a man of little 
knowledge, and who was never fitted for a public debate. He 
challenged Lyotostansky to a public debate, which, however, 
the latter declined to accept. 

The real leaders of Israel, like the well known S. I. Fiinn of 
Wilna and Perez Smolensky, editor of the “‘Hashachar’’ in 
Vienna, and others, were angry because of Zederbaum’s 
challenge, believing that such a challenge had caused an ex- 
tremely unfavorable impression upon the Russian people, 
especially as the newspapers declared that Lyotostansky’s 
declination was due to the fact that the alleged leader of the 
Russian Jews was an ignoramus. 

The very learned Lazar Zweifel, teacher of the Rabbinical 
Seminary in Zhitomir,-who, besides publishing a great book in 














ZWEIFEL. 109 


Hebrew, entitled “‘The Defender,’ against Lyotostansky’s 
book, appealed in our periodical “‘ Hakol,”’ Vol. I. No’s 27 to 31, 
to his co-religionists in Russia that they should appoint a com-. 
mittee to petition the Czar, Alexander II., to forbid all pole- 
mics about the blood accusation in newspapers, books or 
pamphlets, for such incitations always do harm to the govern- 
ment itself. 

However, Zweifel’s appeal was a voice in the desert, as the 
attempts upon the life of the Czar, in which, to our sorrow, 
some of our race took part at that time, made it impossible to 
bother the Czar with such petitions. 

We may say, however, that even in this case the Talmud 
itself was saved, and the government did not stop the publi- 
cation and circulation of it in Russia and even the study of 
it in the Jewish schools and institutions. Even in the curric- 
ulums of the institutes for Hebrew teachers, established by 
the government, some tracts of the Talmud were inserted. 

Alas, we cannot say that the blood accusation by Lyotos- 
tansky had no effect; as in 1882, there were massacres in many 
cities where Jews dwelt. Although these were secretly insti- 
gated by the government itself from a political standpoint, 
the provoking of the mob was on the basis of the blood ac- 
cusation.* 


CHAPTER XVIII. 
THE AFFAIR OF ROHLING-BLOCH. 


Dr. August Rohling, professor in Prague, wrote a pamphlet, 
the “‘Talmudjude,” sixth edition, 1877, in the German lan- 
guage, the previous editions of which were translated into 
many languages, in which he painted the Talmud itself and 
all past Talmudical laws in very black colors. The material 
in all Rohling’s writings (which are named in the previously 





* In all probability the discussion in this chapter will seem very brief and almost 
inadequate, but the reason for this is that most of the details of this chapter are 
related at length in our weekly ‘‘ Hakol” of 1877. Then, again, the entire matter 
is not so interesting or so important to warrant giving it more space here. Of far 
more interest is the works of Professor Rohlings and their results to which we shall 
give considerable space in our next chapter, especially as we ourselves were greatly 
taken up with this affair and were compelled by the circumstances to write four books 
about this affair, three in Hebrew and one in German. 


110 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


mentioned introduction of Strack, page 95) were taken from 
Eisenmenger, and from other men hired by him, as will be 
seen further on. Although the above pamphlet was received 
with great joy by the enemies of the Jews, who quoted him as 
a great authority, nevertheless, it would have been nothing 
more than a mere piece of literary work which could create 
no harm to the Jews had not something unusual occurred 
which put a different aspect to the affair. 

Joseph Samuel Bloch who was at that time a Rabbi in 
a small town of “ Florisdorf,” and who was anxious to get a 
name for himself, considered all Rohling’s work as a means 
of attaining his desire. He understood that if he should 
challenge Rohling to a debate and should accuse him of per- 
jury and falsehood, and thus compel Rohling to sue him for 
libel and insult, this would give him a great name and the Jew- 
ish congregations of Austria, and especially of Vienna, would 
be compelled to defend Bloch with all their power, for the case 
would not be Bloch vs. Rohling, but the Talmud vs. Rohling. 

Notwithstanding that at this time the Israelite congrega- 
tion of Vienna was full of great men and scholars like the 
famous Dr. Jellinek, Chief Rabbi Giidemann, etc., etc., who 
deemed it better to pay no attention at all to Rohling’s work, 
considering it as a mere literary piece of work, and the criticism 
of which they thought better to leave to Gentile Hebrew scholars 
such as Delitzsch, Strack, etc., who had already criticized Rohl- 
ings works. Bloch wrote an article in a weekly paper attacking 
Rohling most furiously and reviling him terribly with every 
possible epithet, including the charge of perjury. 

Bloch’s desire was then realized, for Rohling not being 
able to remain silent, secured the services of the very great 
lawyer, Robert Pattai, M.P., and brought suit against Bloch 
for libel. 

The Israelite congregation of Vienna, although they were 
very much incensed at Bloch for his deed, nevertheless felt 
themselves compelled to secure a lawyer of equal ability to 
' Pattai for the defense of Bloch, the result of which will be seen 
further on. 

Circumstances helped Rohling to find an apostate Jew 
named Ahron Briman, pseudonym Dr. Justus, who wrote a 
book for him named, “‘ Judenspiegel,’”’ composed of 100 pas- 








¥s PRT 
Lae tiie eS pao 


= 


SS Ey ea a ee LS Ce 
- il oY ss St at 
ae ee a els = e 





ok eet, 


ROHLING— BLOCH. Iit 


sages, alleged to be found in the Jewish code, “‘Schulchan 
Aruch,” according to the ordinances of the Talmud against 
Christianity, and asserted that the whole Talmud consists of 
such passages. 

This book naturally created a tremendously unfavorable 
impression upon the whole Christian world, and several papers 
that were anti-Semitically inclined announced the contents of 
the book. One of these papers was ‘‘ Die Merkur,”’ in the City 
of Miinster, which quoted many passages of the book and at 
the same time inserting a glaring editorial against the Jews. 
The District Attorney finding this article to be an incitation 
against a race, brought suit against the editor of the paper. 
This trial occurred December, 1883, and in order that the reader 
may have some idea of the proceedings, we translate in our 
Appendix some pages of our German work, “Der Schulchan 
Aruch und seine Beziehungen zu den Juden und Nicht juden.” 
(See Appendix; No. 20.) 

To illustrate who the person Ahron Briman the assistant 
of Rohling was, we have only to translate a few lines written 
by us about him in our ‘“‘Hakol,” No. 191, page 117, March 
19, 1885:* “ Anti-Semitism was stricken very hard this year. 
All their leaders are taken one by one to the prison, and they 
will have to give an account for their deeds to the judges. 
With the imprisonment of Briman, Rohling’s sources were 
revealed and annulled, as his right hand, Briman, or Dr. 
Brimanus, or Justus, all of which names are identical, is now 
behind the bars, and the newspapers are now recounting his 
sins one by one. 

We, however, say that he and all his literature are not 
worthy of such an honor. There is no doctor, nor learned 
man, no distinguished being, no Satan, but a simple, ordinary 
swindler, who endeavors by everything that comes to his 
hand to deceive the people. He (according to his biography 
which is published in the dailies of this week) has made a 
study of the Talmud and the Schulchan Aruch only that 
they might serve as his business schemes. He was a student 
in the college of Hildesheimer, where it was easy to imbibe 





* At the time he was imprisoned for many crimes and the dailies wrote con- 
tinuously about this in long articles. 


112 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


santification and really become sanctified in the city of Hague. © 


To be still more purified he washed himself in the holy waters 
of Protestantism. Seeing, however, that this act would not 
bring him much fruit, for to be a “‘Pfarrer’’ (minister) one 
must labor diligently, and this he would not do, he set all 
this deed aside at one stroke and swerved over to the Catholic 
faith. 

And then he followed his nature to catch in his net some 
young girls, who had confidence in him, and going further 
in this way the attention of the police was called to this, who 
put a stop to him. 

For whom then such a fuss? We are neither a prophet 
nor the son of a prophet, but nevertheless we recognized his 
character from his so-called literature even as far back as 
1883. As the following are our words in our pamphlet “ Krit- 
ischer Ueberblick uber den Judenspiegelprozess in Munster,” 
December, 1884, page 8, footnote 11, (when we were not 
aware who the author was): “If such would be written 
by a Jew he would be named criminal, deceiver, misanthrope, 
etc.”’ . True, that when we wrote this, we did not know that 
he was a Jew, and now we see that he was. For this, how- 
ever, we have only to be grateful to him because he left the 
Jewish fight before he wrote his hateful “ Judenspiegel,”’ 
and also before he gave his miserable material to Rohling. 
This, because the anti-Semites can no longer blame the Jews 
on account of this person as they brought him over to be- 
come their ally. 

But what became of the suit of Rohling against Bloch? 
We have to give the full credit to Dr. Kopp who forced Rohling 
to withdraw his complaint seeing that according to the tes- 
timony of his co-religionist scholars he could not win his case. 
And this may be seen from the book which Kopp has pub- 
lished in Leipzig, 1886, second edition. (See criticism of 
it in Strack, page 95.) We, however, deem it necessary to 
give the details of this book, in order to defend the Talmud, 
as this will throw light upon all past and present accusations 
against the Talmud. As we have done this in our Hebrew 
monthly ‘‘Morgenblitze,” Vienna, 1886, we have only to 
translate here a part of our review to the book of Kopp named 
“Zur Judenfrage nach den Akten des Prozesses Rohling—Bloch 








x « ce 
; : ee +g ae 
, Fc - % wer Gch eae - 
ae % aren i ie Se - Se ee eT ee a OT ee ee ee oe ee gr. ee 
ete ae “ BE aaa Se OS Rie SES Ie eee ae = Sr tae co ? 5 
AJ : - a a a a A Eh nee ye 


ISS SRE 














Ce eee a ne rae: 
7 a as Be Se as 


{Tae 
ee 





KOPP AND HIS BOOK. 113 


¢ 


von Dr. Joseph Kopp Hofgerichtsadovkat Zu Wien,” Leipzig, 


1886: 

‘Many books are lying before us for review or for announce- 
ment. However, the book named above is unique in every 
respect. It cannot be criticised either way, and the same 
is true of the author of this book as he himself does not give 
his own opinion concerning the subject matter of the book. 
Nevertheless, we may fully say that it is a scientific book in 
every respect. | 

“The author of this book is a Gentile, a prominent member 
of the bar in Vienna, and, according to his own testimony, he 
knows neither the Hebrew language nor the talmudic and 
post-talmudic literature at all. Notwithstanding this, the 
book, as a whole, sanctifies the Talmud and all post-tal- 
mudical literature. 

It can not be taken as a defender of the Talmud because 
of arguments, as the whole book contains merely facts which 
can never be denied and which prove clearly that the Talmud 
and its banner-bearers are clear of every accusation and of 
every suspicion concerning the love of man, be he who he 
may, even according to the present laws and established 
etiquette.” 

The above facts were not given by the author himself, 
but by two well-known Gentile Hebrew scholars, upon whom 
the Supreme Court of Vienna threw the burden of translating 
four hundred passages and quotations. These the Jew- 
haters have used as a sample of the wretchedness of the 
Jewish literature. The chief aim of the Jew-haters was to 
belittle the Talmud, which is the pillar of the Jewish race. 

The author of this work, whom the Israelite congregation 
of Vienna choose to defend Bloch in the case of Rohling— 
Bloch, has done his work well. He gathered all the quo- 
tations quoted by Rohling in his writings from both the Tal- 
mud itself as well as from post-talmudical literature, those 
which were written in the Hebrew language and also in other 
languages, by converted Jews who reached then the dignity 
of Catholic priests. All these quotations he divided into 
two groups, (a) the quotations in Hebrew he brought before 
the Supreme Court, who appointed Gentile Hebrew scholars 


to translate them correctly under oath, into the German 
8 . 


114 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


language; (b) the quotations in the living languages he ex- 
amined himself. However, when he found a quotation in 
another language besides German he submitted it to the 
sworn interpreter of the Supreme Court for translation. Then, 
when both the translations of the quotations by the Jew- 
haters and the translations of the same by those who were 
appointed by the Court appeared before the court, it was 
revealed that the alleged quotations of Rohling were not 
quotations of the Talmud at all, but merely falsehoods. And 
thus was it proved that every line written by Rohling in his 
“Talmudjude,” “Antichrist and Das Ende der Welt,” 
“The Catechism des 19 Jahrhundert fur Juden und Prote- 
stanten ’’ (in which he praises the Spanish Inquisition, de- 
claring it holy to the Lord and to the Catholic Church), “‘ Das 
Salomonische Spruchbuch,” ‘‘Meine Antworten an die Rab- 
biner,”’ ‘‘Die Polemik und die Menschenopfer des Rabbinis- 
mus,’ and also in his letter to Ghetza Anhadi of June 19, 
1883, were all fabrications which never existed since the 
creation of the world. weet 

‘“‘If such a falsehood would not be revealed by the learned 
Christians under oath it would be impossible to believe that 
a man whose dignity came from a professorship of a university 
should act so. The contents of this book are as follows: 
All quotations which were translated by the experts as well 
as those which Rohling himself falsely quoted,* Dr. Kopp 
arranged them thus, preface, instruction, the story proceeding 
the trial, the proceedings of the trial, the conclusion derived 
from the true testimony which was obtained from non-Jews; 
t.e., the Bishop of Leon Agobardus, Paul Medriki, Rabbi 
Maldava, Rabbi Mendel, August Fabius, Gerhard Tickson, 
Franz Delitzsch and August Wunsche. 

‘‘ After sub-dividing the answers of the above scholars in 
two parts, (a) those which are mentioned in the Talmud, etc., 
in general, and (b) where it speaks of the subjects in partic- 
ular, and this he again sub-divided into nine groups; 7.¢., (1) 
- about injuring of Gentile property, (2) harming their lives, 
(3) partiality in cases where Christians come before Jewish 





* The author Kopp points out also many quotations quoted by Rohling from 
books which never existed. 





























EXILARCHS. 115 


judges, (4) the application of animals’ and beasts’ names 
to Christians by Jews, (5) about the oath of the Jews, (6) 
about Jewish witnesses, (7) the Jews against the Christians 
in the laws of slaughtering cattle, (8) about the flattering 
and deceiving practised by Jews: divided into two para- 
graphs, (a) the non-responsibility of the Jews (see Appendix 
No. 19), (6) about the infallibility of the Rabbis concerning 
the blood accusation, and (9) the conclusion of the author 
himself. All these comprise 196 royal octavo pages. 

‘It is self-evident that such a book is above criticism, for, 


_ as we said before, the book contains only facts, viz: (1) the 


translations under oath of the well-known Christian scholars, 
and (2) the falsehood of Rohling’s quotations translated into 
German when compared with the text, and this is all the 
more evident when it is known that Rohling, after seeing all 
these facts, not only withdrew his complaint but pardoned 
even the most rigorous accusation of perjury which Bloch ac- 
cused him of in the past, saying that he was always ready to 
swear falsely at any time if only it would cause harm to the 
Jews.” 


CHAPTER XIX. 


EXILARCHS; THE TALMUD AT THE STAKE AND ITS DEVELOPMENT 
AT THE PRESENT TIME. 


Since the colleges were open in Palestine and Babylon, 
after the destruction of the Temple, there were two kinds of 
rulers: the Palestinian were called princes (Nassies), and the 
Babylonian were called Exilarchs (Rashee Hagula). The 
former are well known to the students, as every one of them 
is mentioned in the Talmud, and their biographical sketches 
are written in many books by modern historians, also in our 
historical and literary introduction to our new edition. 

The Exilarchs, however, who are seldom mentioned in the 
Talmud, are almost forgotten by the historians. Notwithstand- 
ing that the duration of their reign is about 450 years, no 
arrangement of their names and times is to be found in their 
history. 

It is true that some of their names are mentioned in ‘‘ Seder 


116 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


Ualam Zuta,’’ ‘‘Machzor Witree’’ and ‘‘ Yuchssin,’’ but it is 
so confused that no order can be found out. 

We have to be grateful to the learned Abraham Krochmal, 
who first took up this matter, and wrote an excellent long arti- 
cle of seventy-three pages in his “‘Scholein zum babylonischen 
Talmud.” 

His suggestions, however, though of a great genius, are 
scholastical and were criticised by many in periodicals and 
pamphlets. Finally Felix Lazarus, in the ‘‘ Jahrbiicher”’ of N. 
Brill, issued a separate pamphlet about this subject, the result 
of which the reader will find in a list further on. 

And as many of the Exilarchs were the heads of the colleges 
in Sura, Pumbeditha and Nehardea and took a great part in 
the development of the Talmud, they must not be omitted 
from the History of the Talmud. 


List oF EXILARCHS.* 


Wahiim Johanan Shepotes: iis et oes pla oe 140-170 
tL MMR Ue ghee, Oe i gO NEOs ae a meme art Ae 170-210 
NOR Doss ek eG nets tiger og A ete 
Pee TDS SON cis. ee els wee ein bee as 2 ee ee 
Nataan )-b Bund cee: cost cavents es20he ands oa gee 
DU TCMELIO ES hee sncthacavleg etalets usted wciia nleldoleaanarsie ual epee: 270-313 
PISO OAL cee oc0 ee te aia Sie amet ee ee aes 313-337 
Bee EEE, TUS OT OUNET 05 oc yas cw das tv ale ig er Bae ee 337-350 
Aba Mari, his son......... See aE Ue aRe ae en ee 350-370 
WRAEMAAET BE eyed boo sian trate ninco eA ata Wake Lea ane 370-400 
Umanas, sonot Aba MA ..7 65 cs005 055 Coase abe he AOC AES 
MOURN Le Mice ccas £ Waite taios pm ek Se ee 415-442 
Mar duties I. son of Chanan:.. |... ec ces cece) gga ge 
CHIARA Ba te oes t/a ht tho natty Aisi decks bain esos oe eee 455-460 





* We are unable to give their biographical sketches in a clear way, as in many 
instances we agree with Krochmal, whose arrangement is much different from 
Lazarus’s list and the discussion would take up too much space, which we cannot 
' spare. We have only to say that many of the Exilarchs were only holding their 
offices, but were not so learned as to take part in the colleges. They were appointed 
by inheritance and according to theexcellence of their morality. All of them were 
descendants of David’s kingdom, direct from Solomon. The Princes of Palestine, 
who were also descendants of the same kingdom, were only from their mother’s side 
descended from Shepetiah b’ Abital. 

















THE TALMUD AT THE STAKE. 117 


Fitiia V :, SOMOR DMS EG So AR ERs 465-475 
Puna V1. SOR ane e628 ERT 484-508 
Mar Zutre TE Gann) Pee IG ES, 508-520 
Fiugnia Mame oP ih NP, TR Ba 520-560 
Keating eres ea ede. OD ees 5880 
CHAR Ge ee Lae Se a ba Ska ea weeds 580-590 
BTS ETRE S) ORG EO ols a a wale —660 


With the conclusion of the first volume of this work at the 
beginning of the twentieth century, we would invite the reader 
to take only a glance over the past of the Talmud, in which he 
will see that in almost every century and place of the different 
countries in Europe, the Talmud was condemned to the stake. 
By a glance over the present time, however, he will see that 
not only was the Talmud not destroyed, but was so saved that 
not even a single letter of it is missing; and now it is flourishing 
to such a degree as cannot be found in its past history, as will be 
seen further on. 

The details of all the persecutions of the Talmud were given 
in the preceding chapters. Here we give a list of the places 
and dates in which it was at the stake, as well as the names of 
the persecutors. 


THE TALMUD AT THE STAKE. 


Time. Place. Persecwtor. 

1244 Paris King Louis IX. 

1244 Rome Innocent IV. 

1248 Paris Cardinal Legate Odo 
1299 Paris Philip the Fair 

1309 Paris Philip the Fair 

1319 Toulouse Lous 


1322.—Burned in Rome by order of Pope John XXII., and 
accompanied by robbery and murder of the Jews by the mob. 
1553-—Rome: Pope Julius III.—Similar burnings by the 
same order took place in Barcelona, Venice, Romagna, Urbino 
and Pesaro. 
Here three wagons full of books were burned ; but first they were carried through 
the streets of the city, while royal officers proclaimed publicly that their condem- 


nation was due to the insults to Christianity which they contained. (See also 
note, vol. ii. p. 52.) 


118 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


1554.—Burned by hundreds and thousands in Ancona, 
Ferrara, Mantua, Padua, Candia and Ravenna. 

1558.—Rome: Cardinal Ghislieri. 

1559.—Rome: Sextus Sinensis. 

1557.—Poland: Talmud burned because of the charge 
made against the Jews that they used the blood of Christian 
children in their ceremonies. This occurred during the Frankist 
disturbances. 


Such was the past of the Talmud which we hope will never 
be repeated. Now a glance at the end of the last century and 
the beginning of this one. 

The colleges for the study of the Talmud are increasing 
almost in every place where Israel dwells, especially in this 
country where millions are gathered for the funds of the two 
great colleges, the Hebrew Union College of Cincinnati and the 
Jewish Theological Seminary of America in New York, in 
which the chief study is the Talmud and its post-talmudical 
literature. The heads of these colleges are of the most learned 
scholars of their time, who are very careful in selecting the pro- 
fessors and instructors for these institutions of learning. We 
were honored to be present at some lectures which the late 
great Talmudist, Professor Mielziner, delivered before the 
senior class in Cincinnati, from which we derived great pleasure 
and, we may also say that in some instances they were to a 
degree instructive to us in our task of translating the Talmud. 

What concerns the theological seminary in our own city, in 
which we were not permitted (see App. No. 20) to hear the lec- 
tures on the Talmud, we are also in the full belief that it will do 
much for the study and development of the Talmud in this 
and in future generations. We use the statement of the Tal- 
mud, ‘‘One may be certain that a master will not leave out 
from his hand a thing imperfect,’’ and as the dean of this 
faculty is not only a learned man but also an experienced 
teacher, there is great hope that he will do all in his power to 
select instructors and perfect lecturers for this institution. 

There are also in our city houses of learning (Jeshibath) for 
the study of the Talmud in the lower East Side, where many 
young men are studying the Talmud every day. 

We are also glad to notice that among Gentiles the study 












5 ” ie ore i a aa 
Se ee ere ee ee a a ee ih ee RT A I Ne Sn ee I —— ee Se ee ee 
a eS a SS Sn ie pies ¥ | SR eS ei DEPRES RE OD Gn gata Sa 
: 3 = ~ re Fe ale pe wx : SPS ee i SS a OR RR ge en RE a ee meres ee eee 
. . ™ . ee = ee NT -, 


A tt 
by 
a: 
‘ 








GENTILES STUDY THE TALMUD. 119 


of the Talmud is more or less spreading, as we have the experi- 
ence that a great number of Gentiles and almost all the theo- 
logical seminaries and public libraries subscribed to the Tal- 
mud, and also many queries concerning it frequently came to us 
from Gentiles. This all shows that the study of the Talmud 
among Gentiles is not very rare. ; 

The Jewish Encyclopedia (see App. 21) which is in pro- 
gress now is also a great help to the study and development of 
the Talmud, as all the treatises of the Talmud are and will be 
separately named, with many particulars which will cause 
many readers to study the Talmud itself. 











APPENDIX A. 


No..1. In the history of the ‘‘Oral Law,” Part I., by I. H. 
Weiss, the reader will find an account of the deeds of the Samari- 
tans in detail, though only a few instances are dealt with. 

No. 2. We may refer the reader to the book, ‘‘Maamar Hai- 
shuth,’”’ by Holdheim, Berlin, who explains the belief of the 
Sadducees, and their opposition to the Pharisees. 

No. 3. We agree with those who say that the tearing of the skin 
at the performance of circumcision was discovered since the Israel- 
ites had begun to undo circumcision; at the time when the theatres 
were opened by Nero, and the Jews who had to go naked there to 
wrestle with the beasts, were ashamed to be distinguished by this 
peculiarity. For this purpose the tearing of the skin was devised. 
(See Tract Sabbath, p. 307, in the Mishna: ‘‘One who was circum- 
cised without having had the skin torn open is considered uncir- 
cumcised.’’) To this there is neither any source in the Scriptures 
nor any tradition mentioned in the Gemara. Some scholars don’t 
agree with us. (See the letter of A. Bernstein in Tract Roshhos- 
honah, in the first edition). We, however, base our opinion on 
the fact that we doubt whether Antiochus Epiphanes would have 
prohibited a circumcision, customary then among the neighboring 
nations; and therefore it seems to us that he prohibited only the 
tearing of the skin which had been ordained by the Pharisees. 

No. 4. See our brief introduction in Tract Sabbath. Our 
opinion is that some written Mishnayoth had been in existence 
long before. Also Jellinek’s Kuntres Haklalim, Note 4, for the 
opinion of the French and Spanish scholars about it. Also I. H. 
Weiss and our “ Hakol,” Vol. VI., p. rr. 

The London Athenzeum, VI., 808, has cited our statement in 
the general brief introduction, p. 15: ‘‘ Most of the Mishnayoth 
date from a very early period, and originated with the students of 
the Jewish Academies which existed since the days of Jehoshaphat, 
King of Judah [2 Ghron. xxii., 9]: ‘And they thought in Judah, 
and with them was the book of the law of the Lord, and they moved 
about through all the cities of Judah and taught the people,’”’ as 
ridiculous. This, however, does not terrify us, as notes of com- 
mentaries on the text of the Scriptures, the whole or in part, have 


122 APPENDIX A. 


been found in the hands of students from the time colleges had 
been founded; and this opinion of ours has met with approval from 
many contemporary scholars. 

No. 5. See our ‘‘ Hakol,’”’ Vol. VI., in which we state that the 
Gentiles who desired to embrace Judaism, asking Hillel to convert 
them, were men of rank, for a common man would not dare to make 
such a stipulation as to be a high priest in Israel. 

No. 6. The belief in the divinity of Jesus became acute at a much 
later period, when the heathens accepted this fight according to all 
modern scholars.* 

No. 7. (See App. No. 4.) We shall also come to this matter in 
our later notes. 

No. 8. In our translation we have added the Tract Ebel Rab- 

bathi, or Sema’Hoth, as the law of mourning was taken from this 
tract. We have, therefore, added it to the tract ‘‘ Minor Festivals,”’ 
which also treats of mourning on the festival days. What concerns 
the beginning of ‘‘Section of Seeds”’ with the tract ‘‘ Benedictions,”’ 
see I. H. Weiss for another reason which does not seem probable 
to us. ; 
The names of all the treatises of the tracts of each section, and 
of their chapters in detail, the reader will find in books written 
for this purpose by Strack, Mielziner, and also in the encyclo- 
pedias, especially in the Jewish Encyclopedia.t We deem it not 
necessary to name them here as we give at the end of Vol II. the 
synopsis of each tract, translated and published up to date. 





* What concerns Ben Zakkai, according to Heilprin, in his ‘‘ Seder Hadoroth,” 
and other authorities, Johanan b. Zakkai died 72 years A.c., that is, about forty years 
after the death of Jesus, at which time the followers of the latter had already begun 
to dispute with their Jewish colleagues. We also find a disciple of Johanan b, Zak- 
kai whom he very much respected, very friendly to, and pleased with, Jacob of the 
village Sachnon, who was one of the first disciples of Jesus. Hence our conjecture. 

+ Speaking of the encyclopedias, we are sorry to say that in spite of the adver- 
tising of their completeness, with all additional information in every branch up to the 
time of publication, one can not rely upon them. It seems to us that they omit the 
mention of books of great interest. According to our knowledge, books the subject 
of which is interesting to most students, not to speak of whether they are well done 
or not, ought to be mentioned and, if necessary, with a remark about the quality of 
the books. Now take the ‘‘ Century Encyclopzdia-Dictionary and Atlas,” which is 
advertised as the best of its kind and which is published in New York City, and if 
we look under the subject ‘‘ Talmud,” the fourteen or fifteen volumes of the /irst 
English translation of the ‘‘ Talmud” by Michael L. Rodkinson, published in the 
same city, are not to be found, although about 175 daily papers and periodicals, here 
and abroad, noticed and reviewed the publication. The same is the case with Apple- 
ton’s new encyclopedia under the same title ‘‘ Talmud.” Here also Rodkinson’s 
translation is not mentioned, though some small tracts which were translated into 
German are mentioned. Still more remarkable is it, that the reviser of this article 





a a 


mee aes 





SSSR RR Ser es RS ae ia ara 


Maker 





UMS Cee ey 








te x ech Spets whee gue fer 








APPENDIX A. 123 


No. 9. Details will be given in the second volume of this book 
in the introduction to our new edition. 

No. ro. In our book mentioned, we also show additions made 
by the opponents of the Talmud for the purpose of degrading it. 
For examples, see Vol. II., Part III.* 

No. r1. We shall come to this matter in the second volume of 
this book, in the chapter devoted to the Ethics of the Talmud. 

No. 12. Almost all ritual poets composed after the Talmudic 
Hagada. Sometimes comments will be found, by a critical eye, 
there on the Hagada or even Halakha, as the ritual poems relating 
to Passover, contain almost all the laws of Passover. 

No. 13. His decree was only for the German, French and Polish 
Jews, and extended only until the end of the five thousandth year 
after creation. However, the above-named Jews accepted his de- 
cree as extending indefinitely. In Syria and in Palestine; however, 
where his decree was not accepted, some of the Portuguese Jews, 
known there as Franks, marry two wives even at the present time 
in such cases when the first wife is barren. 

No. 14. See ‘‘Measseph Nidachim,” Vol. X., by A. E. Harkavy, 
where he proves that in Spain had existed houses of learning from 
ancient times and that the Gaonim of Babylonia had relations with 
them; and in many places they tried to follow their customs. (See 
there). 

No. 15. As to what were these places, and who the disputants, 





on the ‘‘ Talmud” was Dr. Richard Gottheil, who is one of the editors of the Jewish 
Encyclopedia, and who himself wrote a criticism in ‘*‘ The Bookman” in 1897 upon 
this translation. What concerns the Jewish Encyclopzedia, which is devoted only to 
matters relating to the Jews, one is still more astonished on examining its bibliogra- 
phies. On pages 390 and 394 of vol. ii., etc., etc., the contents of Tracts Baba Batra 
Metzia and Kama are explained. In the bibliography of this article are neither men- 
tioned the excellent translation into French by I. M. Rabbinowicz nor the translation 
into English by Michael L. Rodkinson. The same is the case with vol. iv., page 526, 
etc., concerning the tracts ‘‘ Derekh-Erez Rabba” and ‘‘ Zuta,” for in the bibliog- 
raphy there is not mentioned its translation in vol. i, (ix.) into English by the same 
M. L. Rodkinson, together with Abot de Rabbi Nathan, which is mentioned in the first 
volume, page 82. Here the bibliography reads: ‘‘ An English version is given 
by M. L. Rodkinson in his translation of the Babylonian Talmud, I. (IX.), New York, 
1900.” We cannot find any excuse for such a sin of the bibliographer unless we 
ascribe it to the carelessness of the editors, for even if the authors of the articles were 
ignorant of it, in spite of the fact that this translation is to be found in almost all the 
libraries of the cities and countries, still the editors ought not to have been so, 

* To the critics who will try to find fault with us because of the article by Prof. 
Schechter in the Westminster Review of January and April, we will say that in spite 
of the respect which we feel for the article and the author, we do not agree with it on 
many points. Therefore, without any controversies, we state here what seems reason- 
able to us, leaving it to the reader to judge. 


124 APPENDIX A. 


whether only Messianists or also Persians and idolaters, the opin- 
ions of modern scholars differ. To us it seems that the Messian- 
ists possessed only the house of Abidan, and the Persians and 
Magians that of Nitzraphi. Rabh refused absolutely to dispute 
with the first, but was forced to do so with the latter, perhaps by 
his proximity to the government. Of the house of Abiani schol- 
ars say it was composed of Messianists. 

No. 16. As his interpretation of the text, “‘it shall be a sign 
unto thee upon thy hand, and for a memorial between thy eyes,” 
that it is a figure of speech, it shall be memored as if written on thy 
hand, as, ‘‘set me as aseal upon thy breast,” [Song of Solomon, vii. 
6]: ‘“‘between thy eyes,” as an ornament which it is customary to 
put on the brow, and there is no mention of the use of Phylacteriens 
in his whole commentary, though the Talmud based the custom 
of Phylacteriens only on these texts. We have spoken already of 
this in our work on Phylacteriens. 

No. 17. In the excellent work, ‘‘Kritische Geschichte der Tal- 
mud Ubersetzungen,”’ by Dr. Erich Bischof, we read, p. 67: 
Trotzdem heute der friihr iiberschitzte Eisenmenger allzusehr 
unterschétzt wird, weil er noch nicht den historisch—Kritischen 
Blick unserer Tage besass lasst sich doch gegen seine—Uber- 
setzunger der genanten* Stellen nichts Erhebliches mit Fug ein- 
wenden sie sind vielmehr fast stets richtig, etc. 

We may say that though we respect very much the above-men- 
tioned work as one whose opinions in general are correct, we would 
like to call the attention of the learned author to the following facts: 

(a) Notwithstanding the fact that in a period of eight centuries 
over a thousand persons of varying opinions were engaged in the 
compiling of the Talmud, in the edition lying before us there is not 
to be found any designation as to time, and in many places, even 
the author of that saying is not mentioned, Eisenmenger gives the 
sentence, calling it literal translation, as if it were said by one person 
ata given time. It is self-evident, however, that such literal trans- 
lation changes the meaning entirely. 

(b) An opinion of an individual concerning Gentiles, he quotes 
it in the name of the Talmud, in spite that this saying is immedi- 
ately opposed by the Gemara. 

(c) He erred even in the literal translation, e.g., ‘‘ Margela be 
Pume de Abye,’’ this paragraph is translated by usin third part of 
Vol. II. of this book. He translates, ‘‘A pearl was in the mouth of 
A.”’; while the literal translation of the word Margela is, ‘‘It was 
used,” z.e., Abye ‘‘used”’ to repeat this saying very often. At 





* He quotes namely, the places of the Talmud which were translated by him. 




















a ee 


Br nie 
SSeS SS 


é 
= 
SS 


ips 
+ 
Mii 
is 
ay 
er 
a 
ie 
ri 
! 


Ss te ee tere Snape St aE aoe BS irae es ee pid 
Pain Ne AE RSA OO ae BO Fe Dcerhees FS oy aig 


ate 
ile 


Se oe ae 





APPENDIX A. oP 


another place he asks why should the ‘‘Talmud”’ be called great, 
while the word ‘‘Talmud”’ in that sentence means “‘teaching,”’ 7.¢., 
the teaching is greater than action; for teaching causes action. 
And we wonder how Dr. Bischoff can say of such, ‘‘it is rather cor- 
rect.” 

No. 18. Concerning the pamphlets and books against the Tal- 
mud, written by apostate Jews, see Strack, page 95. 

No. 19. Rohling declares that the Rabbis had concluded that 
all the sins of a Jew, be it against heaven or against man, are for- 
given him if he only remains a Jew. He also declares that every 
Rabbi considers himself infallible concerning the laws of non-Jewish 
blood. 

The conclusion of our review of this book seems to us of 
interest to the reader, and therefore we translate it here: ‘‘ The Lord 
hath made all things for himself: yea, even the wicked for the day 
of evil’’ [Proverbs, xvi. 4]. If we will look with an open eye into 
the history of Israel, we shall find that at all times, when character- 
less men arose to accuse and oppress Jews because of jealousy or 
animosity (except in cases where a man fights for his livelihood, 
which is natural), their opponents who fought them openly were 
equal to them in every respect. As the poet says, “‘ Also unto thee, 
O Lord belongeth mercy for thou renderest to every man according 
to his deeds”’ [Ps. Ixiv. 13]. If these words should be explained 
according to their literal meaning the question would arise why mercy 
if to every one isrendered according to hisdeeds. Therefore it is to 
be explained thus: ‘mercy belongeth to thee that thou repayest the 
wicked man for his evil deeds by one who is equal in deeds to him.”’ 

Similarly did it happen in the time of the Judges when Sisera 
oppressed the Jews terribly, providence transferred him to a pros- 
titute, Jael, who rebelled against her husband and also against her 
lover (Sisera), who thought to be saved, being between her knees, 
and was slain by her [Judges, v. 27]. 

Haman, the Agagi whom Harbonah had assisted in “creating 
the gallows to hang Mordecai, was transferred to Harbonah’s 
hands and was hanged by him who was equally devoid of character. 
Hadrian who decreed that the Jews should not circumcise their 
children under the penalty of capital punishment, and Simon b. 
"Yohaie who was going to Rome to petition the Caesar to abolish 
this decree, the miracle occurred through Ben Tmalion (a devil). 
Notwithstanding that Simon wept saying, ‘‘To the servant of my 
grandfather (Hagar), when she was in need, an angel appeared 
three times [Genesis, xvi. 7-12], and to me who am troubled with 
the needs of all Israel, an angel did not appear, even one time, but 


126 APPENDIX A. 


only a devil” [Me-ila, 17,0], itdid not help him, for who of the angels 
would lower himself to appear before such a low person who desires 
to oppress humanity without any reason but merely on account of 
their religion. | 

In reality it is revealed before Him, who said a Word and the 
World was created, that a man of delicate nature would dislike to 
come in contact with men of doubtful character, and would not 
fight with a dirty man, as there is a rule that he who fights bodily 
with a dirty man must become dirty himself. Therefore the Lord 
has created the wicked and characterless men for the purposes of 
such an evil day that he should conquer his opponent, who is equal 
to him in every respect. 

Our sages seem to be aware of this, as we find that when a dis- 
pute was needed on subjects concerning Israel, they selected a 
common man (see Sanhedrin, page 270), and similarly to this, we 
have seen last year when the measure of the renowned Stoecker’s 
deeds were full, his comrade, Greenberg, who exchanged his needle 
for a scribe’s pen, and when driven out from the Socialists in Berlin, 


became a comrade of Stoecker, and finally his secretary, and later- 


sold him with all his writings for ten German thalers, so that it 
became known who the Preacher of the Royal Court was, and a 
case identical to that of Rohling-Bloch, that he (Rohling) fell into 
the hands of a equally characterless man, Bloch,* whom God had 
created for this dark day, as said above that from all the great Jew- 
ish men of Vienna, not one of them humiliated himself to enter into 
a fight with Rohling. However, if there is need for a miracle to 
’ occur, it matters little from whence it comes, and after all, we have 
to praise Bloch that he was the cause for the appearance of such a 
book, just as the prophetess Deborah praised the prostitute /ael 
[Judges, v. 24]: ‘‘Blessed shall she be of the women of the tent.” 

No. 20. The following is a translation of a few pages of the be- 
ginning of our pamphlet, ‘“‘“Der Schulchan Aruch und seine Bezie- 


hungen zu den Juden und Nichtjuden.” ‘On the roth of Decem- 
ber, 1883, a trial came before the ‘Landesgerichte,’ at Miinster, 
which created a great commotion in all Germany”. . . viz., ‘‘one 


of the anti-Semites, named Dr. Justus, published a pamphlet in 
Paderborn under the name ‘ Judenspiegel’ containing 100 law para- 
graphs of the ‘Schulchan Aruch,’ concerning the treatment of 
‘Akum,’ abbreviation of three words, ‘Obde Kochabim Umazoleth,’ 
literally, ‘worshipper of stars and planets.’ However, the author, 
Justus, put the word ‘Christians’ instead of ‘Akum’ in every 





* In our pamphlet ‘‘ Barquai,” Vienna, 1886, all Bloch’s proceedings as well as 
his character are related. 





ee eS a ee ee ee ie 
RE ES Sa a ee oe ee 
< Ds 4 ¥ z = ah it ole “ wey, —— x 


ay 


SS Sak &. 














APPENDIX A. 127 


place in the text. The editor of ‘The Merkur’ in Miinster 
quoted many passages of this pamphlet with a glaring editorial, 
and the district-attorney, who considered such as an incitation 
against a race, made him responsible for this. The ‘Landes- 
gerichte’ appointed two experts, one a Jew, Dr. Treu, a Hebrew 
teacher in the ‘royal gymnasium,’ and a Gentile, Dr. Ecker, an 
instructor in Semitic languages.”’ * 

Dr. Ecker Privatdocent at the royal academy of this place 
declares, that having devoted the last ten years exclusively to the 
study of Semitica, he is in a position to express an opinion. He 
then goes on to say: 

“In the first place, I feel it my duty to point out that I can in 
no way agree with the conclusions arrived at by my esteemed 
colleague, Treu, and that concerning the essential point I entertain 
a conviction the very opposite of his. Three questions are here 
concerned which I am to answer: 

(1) Is the ‘Shulchan Aruch’ vested with legal sanction? 

(2) Does the word ‘Akum’ mean also Christians? 

(3) Are the quotations of Dr. Justus in agreement with the 
original text.” 

As his answer to the first question treats about the ‘‘Schulchan 
Aruch”’ only, and also whether the Jews at that time are to be named 
Schulchan Aruch Jews or Talmud Jews, we omit it as it does not 
belong to the purpose of our history. We begin therefore with 
the second point. 


‘* As to the second point, whether the word Akum comprises also Christians, I 
do not see how this can be denied. It is my firm conviction that Akum is nothing 
less nor more than non-Jews. And I believe that the Christians too belong to this 
class. Thus a law book that has appeared in the middle of the sixteenth century in 
Krakau should contain laws regulating the behavior of Jews (1) towards Jews, (2) 
toward planet-worshippers who live hundreds of miles away? This is indeed ridicu- 
Zous. Gentlemen, allow me to draw a comparison. Suppose, here in Miinster, a 
Jew would conceive a notion to sit down and write a new law book in which there are 
but two classes of laws, how the Jews should behave toward Jews and toward—well, 
for my part let him call them what he may, it means after all non-Jews ; suppose 
further that the prescribed behavior toward non-Jews is very rude and inhuman, and 
the author is held responsible for so treating the Christians, the learned Jew says: 
Ye Christians of Minster are not at all included in the class of non-Jews, which class 
has reference to the—Hottentots ! 

‘* Now, gentlemen, it is just as ridiculous to assert that in the sixteenth century 
there have appeared laws in Krakau regulating the behavior of Jews toward planet 





* The testimonies of Dr. Treu, who was a Jew, we do not deem necessary to 
translate, especially as they may be understood from the answers of Dr. Ecker. 
However, the latter’s testimony and our replies we translate literally for the purpose 
of enlightening such passages which are to be found in the Talmud. 


128 APPENDIX A. 


worshippers, and the Christians are nowhere mentioned. And, gentlemen, since this 
point has received no emphasis on the part of my esteemed colleague, it is important 
to call attention to it! If Akum does not comprise Christians, then laws against 
Christians are wholly missing. In the ‘Shulchan Aruch’ there are mentioned only 
Jews and Akum ; we Christians are surely not Jews, hence we are beyond all doubt 
comprised in the term Akum. 

‘*T repeat once more, Akum is congruent with non-Jews. The Rabbis them- 
selves prove this. I have in my possession a recent Wilna edition of the ‘Shulchan 
Aruch,’ in which not infrequently the word Akum of the older editions is substituted 
by Eno Ichudi, i.e. non-Jew. The fear for the censor prompted many to an altera- 
tion, but in this case it has rather been an unhappy one, since the publishers them- 
selves say that Akum is synonymous with non-Jew.” 


We are in a position to meet also this issue of the Herr Expert. 
The term non-Jews is by no means generic for the term Christian. 
In order to fully perceive the truth of this statement, it remains 
for the learned doctor to merely cross the channel over to England. 
This great world dominating nation consists in its overwhelming 
majority of pious and strict Christians. They sacrifice millions 
for the propagation of the Christian creed, and the evangelic writ- 
ings all over the world. However, they call themselves with self- 
gratification, ‘‘The genuine Jews, sonsof The New Union.” They 
pretend to be the descendants of the enigmatically vanished ten 
tribes of Israel, and to still be Jews, body and soul. Very often you 
find on their worship places and educational institutions inscrip- 
tions in both English and Hebrew. Here you read in strikingly 
large letters: ‘‘Chapel of the Jews-Christians,” ‘‘ Jewish-Nazaric 
School.’”” In the cosmopolis London the most influential princes 
and the highest state officers call themselves with self-conscious- 
ness, ‘‘ Jew-Christians.’’ What then is the decisive trait that makes 
the Christian a non-Jew? Furthermore, the theologically educated 
Expert can, hardly be believed to be ignorant of the fact that the 
first adherents of Christianity in its statu nascendi had preserved 
the name Jews for a long period, had remained piously obedient 
to the customs, precepts and tenets of the Jews, and had in their 
outward apparel distinguished themselves in nothing from their 
former brethren in creed. Notwithstanding their sincere de- 
votion to the new movement, they still called themselves, ‘‘ devout 
sons of Israel’; only few were they who assumed an outspoken 
antagonistic position with regard to the customary Rabbinic or 
Pharisaic ordinances, and were on this account stigmatized by the 
Talmud as “Min,”’ “‘Apikores.’’ Now, has non-Jews always been 
identical with Christian? Aside from this the first edition of the 
‘“‘Schulchan Aruch’”’ was printed in Adrianople (Turkey), where 
the most inhabitants were Mussulmans. 








Pn in ae a Se 





APPENDIX A. 129 


‘* Such falsifications of the text in more recent editions have perplexed me to 
some extent, when I investigated the laws of Justus. The fourth law reads: ‘When 
a Jew is met by an Akum (Christian) with a cross in his hand, the Jew is strictly pro- 
hibited from bowing his head.’ However, in my Wilna edition I find instead of 
Akum the word adam, i.e. man. I then compared a new Stettin edition, and there I 
even find: ‘ When an obed kochabim (star worshipper) with abodath kochabim (idol) in 
hand meet,’ whence nothing could, of course, be proved. Only in an older edition 
I have found the original : ‘ When an Akum meets you with a sheti vaereb (i.e. woof 
and warp = cross).’ And, gentlemen, this proof is incontrovertible. It is known to 
everybody that no heathen reveres the cross. Akum here must mean a Christian.” 


One moment, profound Herr Dr. Ecker, the case appears after 
all to be very far from being so manifest and ultimately settled. 
During their existence, extending over thousands of years, the Jews 
had experienced among the various nations many a thing of which 
many a sage can not even dream and which seems unknown also to 
Dr. Ecker, the theologian, who bears even the title Doctor. As 
there is in general nothing new under the sun, the consecration of 
the cross in Christianity was not a wholly new creation. In the 
Brahman religion the cross had enjoyed great esteem some six cen- 
turies ‘B.c. The Hindu symbolized therein the space relations 
of the universe. According to accounts relating to those times, 
the Fakirs would stand motionless, their hands stretched cross- 
wise, for days or, as some would have it, even for weeks until the 
nails on their fingers would grow to be inches long. By thus blunt- 
ing their bodily sensibility they endeavored to give palpable ex- 
pression to the negation of man’s earthly existence. The commen- 
tary to Eben Ezra, mekor chaim, gives in the book Margalioth an 
account of this custom. Accordingly, it is by no means so in- 
credible nor could have been so infrequent that a Jew should have 
met a heathen with across. The assumption is therefore plausible 
that the Talmud had in view such heathens. However, we admit 
that this is merely an hypothesis, and that Shulchan Aruch was 
no more familiar with Indian mythology than Dr. Ecker appears 
tobe. We aim solely at showing that it is possible for one impelled 
by judophobic purposes to carry on the study of Semitica for ten 
years, and yet exhibit drastic ignorance here and there—all diluted 
eloquence and vain presumptions notwithstanding—and that it is 
altogether ill-becoming to venture upon expressing a competent 
opinion on Jewish laws that have arisen in ancient times. It is of 
this that we wanted to remind Herr Dr. Ecker and his anti-Semitic 
commilitants. 

‘* In conclusion one more proof that will of necessity convince everybody. We 
all know that the Jews do not eat meat unless it has been slaughtered by a Jew. Meat 


slaughtered by Christians is not ‘ kosher,’ and yet the ‘Shulchan Aruch’ says that 
meat slaughtered by an Akum is not kosher; hence Akum means also the Christian.” 


9 


130 APPENDIX A. 


Patience, Herr Dr. Ecker. Also this your far-fetched remark 
deserves an answer, and such that will remove the scales off your 
eyes. How indeed is it possible that a theologian who has been ex- 
ploring Jewish literature for ten years should exhibit such salient 
gaps? The most ignorant Jew could beat you in this point. Who 
does not know that only a trained slaughterer examined and sup- 
plied with a diploma is allowed to slaughter? Any other Jew, and 
be that the most enlightened and distinguished among the Rabbis 
themselves, is not entitled to slaughter, and were he to do it the 
meat of this animal would be unallowable and regarded as though 
the animal had been torn to pieces by a beast of prey, and is there- 
fore ‘‘ Terefa,’”’ (torn.) And upon this case Dr. Ecker bases his 
deduction that Akum is absolutely a Christian, for the cattle 
slaughtered by an Akum is not kosher? How ridiculous! Is it 
kosher if slaughtered by a Jew not in possession of the right to 
slaughter? 


‘* Now comes the important third question: Are the laws of Dr. Justus really con- 
tained in the ‘Shulchan Aruch’? Herr Colleague Treu has made the utterance that 
many a point of these laws is not contained in the ‘Shulchan Aruch.’ Particular stress 
was apparently laid on this remark. The case is not set down with precision ; I have 
compared all the laws with the original text and reached the following result: that I 
should simply sign my name under all these 100 laws from A to Z, you cannot 
require of me. In their main substance they are correctly contained in the ‘Shulchan 
Aruch,’ but the foundations of some single laws are borrowed by the author from 
somewhere else ; on the whole, however, well grounded. I admit, and this is natural 
enough, that the laws are pozguantly formulated, and in some cases in a manner which 
I should not approve of. We read, ¢.g., in law 79: ‘ The Jew is allowed to eat un- 
clean in case of a dangerous sickness . . . however, he is not allowed even in this 
case to use for his cure something that belongs (in the opinion of the Jews) to the 
most-unclean, viz., toa Christian Church.’ As already observed, no mention is made 
of Christians, and also here in the text it reads ‘idol worship.’ Of course, the 
Christian Church too belongs here. Thus, the case is not untrue, yet in its above 
formulation the law sounds sharper and Dr. Justus should have left the text also here 
unaltered and added ‘ Christian Church’ in parentheses.” 


Truly, we are at a loss to find the proper expression that might 
appropriately characterize this expert deposition of a theologically 
educated priest. Let us in the first place inquire somewhat more 
closely into the law in question, which in its formulation is in neither 
the Talmud nor the Shulchan Aruch. In the former we read: “If 
a man is seized with bulimy he may be fed with unclean 
food, till his eyes become clear” (Yoma, 125). Here no mention 
is made of either Akum or idol worship. In the Shulchan Aruch 
the same law is worded as follows: “‘It is allowed to give the dan- 
gerously sick prohibited food to eat” (Orach Chaim, 618, 9). Here 
again the word unclean has been eliminated. Still another pas- 





Sr aseas 


Se ee: 
TS eae 


Pes me, sasha 2 











eS 





APPENDIX A. 131 


sage treating of the same subject reads: ‘‘For curing purposes 
all is allowed to be used but the wood of an Ashera, Astrate, 
that what was in Phoenician an unchaste phallus-idol.’”” We 
read further in the same place: ‘‘With all things it is per- 
mitted to cure one’s self except by means of idolatry, adul- 
tery and shedding of blood.’’ (Pesachim, 36.) The word 
Tumah = unclean is not met here at all. In the Shulchan Aruch 
this law is restated as follows: “It is not allowed to seek con- 
valescence in the name of idols” (Yoreh dea,155.) Neither is here 
the word Tumah to be found. It thus remains an enigma where 
Dr. Justus may have borrowed the expression “‘the most unclean,” 
which is to Dr. Ecker of course synonymous with the Christian 
Church, since the word is not at all used in the original text in connec- 
tion with this law! But we must do justice to Dr. Ecker; he pos- 
sesses a highly cunning method of polemizing; he displays ad- 
mirable dexterity in securing for his comrade Dr. Justus an open 
back-door. Yes, indeed, Dr. Ecker is master of his art, he leaves 
far behind that so-called ‘Jewish method of polemizing,’’ which 
has been according to the ‘‘Germania”’ revealed in this action. 
Herr Dr. Ecker makes notably the statement that Dr. Justus has 
taken his law from the Shulchan Aruch, their interpretations, how- 
ever, he has borrowed from somewhere else. This open admission 
manifests the intention of false conception. Dr. Justus has namely 
borrowed that marked, or to use the language of Dr. Ecker, “‘ poign- 
ant” expression from a place that has absolutely nothing in com- 
mon with the law in question. Aboda Zara, 7.e. idol worship, is 
termed in the Talmud the father of uncleanness: Abh hatumah, 
which defiles by touch (Sabbath, Aboda Zara.) Now Dr. Justus 
resorts to the following stratagem; he renders Abh hathmah with 
“the most unclean,’ substitutes Aboda Zara, idol worship, by 
“Christian Church,’”’ then he fabricates a law under the label of 
the Shulchan Aruch which has never had any thing of the kind, 
and in the name of this firm sends it out into the wide world. Dr. 
Ecker, it is true, finds that such method of procedure is ‘‘ poignant,” 
but on the whole correct and to the point. What may criticism 
say on such an escapade? If a Jew had the mishap of venturing 
upon such a shaky ground, the whole stock of degrading names, 
such as rogue, rascal, impostor, misanthrope, etc., would not suffice 
to stigmatize so shameless a forger. Indeed it requires very little 
originality and still less sagacity or witchcraft to pick out phrases 
from places that stand in no relation to one another, and compile 
them with a view of criminating whomever it may be. Dr. Justus 
has done such a work, and a Catholic priest, a custodian of the church 


132 APPENDIX A. 


who should adhere to truth, right and peace, has the impudence to 
assert that this work is in substance correct, though poignant because 
‘Christian Church” should have been enclosed in parentheses; 
as if then the falsehood would turn to truth! (Cana theologian bear 
such false testimony, a priest who declares himself to be well versed 
in the Hebrew and hence competent to pass judgment on Rabbinical 
literature? 

Let us now examine somewhat more closely the Hebrew con- 
cept, ““Tumah,” In default of a corresponding similarly express- 
ive German word, one is of necessity prompted to render it with 
“‘unclean.’’ In reality, however, the Biblical and Rabbinical 
‘*“Tumah,”’ is toto celo different from the current notion unclean. 
The German ‘‘unclean”’ is synonymous with the dirt and filth, 
which is in no way the case with Tumah. According to the 
Mosaic law, a human corpse is the very origin, the progenitor of all 
Tumah, ‘Abs aboth hatumah.”” In Dr. Ecker’s German this could 
be styled ‘‘the most unclean.”” The tent, the room that shelters 
a corpse, with all the utensils therein, is permeated with the fluid 
of Tumah, uncleanness. Whoever lingers, sits or sleeps there, 
whoever touches the corpse, is infected with the Tumah and be- 
comes in turn ‘‘Abh hatumah,”’ the father of wuncleanness, 
and he who touches the Abh hatumah is called ‘“‘ Rishon let- 
timah,” the first of uncleanness; he is prohibited for seven 
days from entering the sanctuary or from approaching the 
altar. He imparts Tumah to him who may happen to touch him. 
It is here absolutely immaterial whether the corpse was, when alive, 
sheltering the divine spirit of Moses, of the crowned bard of the 
unparalleled psalm songster David, or of one of the lowliest in the 
Jewish nation. The assertion that the corpse of Moses, David, etc., 
is the most unclean would be a sure symptom of insanity. Are the 
two words Tumah and unclean congruent? The religious law of 
Tumah is laid down in the Torah without foundation at all, and be- 
longs to those laws concerning which we venture to speculate, yet 
are unable to warrant their validity. Now, the Rabbis, eager to 
keep the Jews from following idolatry of those times, to prevent all 
contact therewith, were therefore teaching: ‘“‘An idol defiles by 
touch; it is not allowed even for curing purposes.’’ However, it 
was not the material part of the idol that was prohibited, such as 
the wood, the stone, the dust (for the use of all this was allowed in 
case of danger), but the prohibition is to be conceived of in the 
following sense. If one were to whisper in the ear of a dangerously 
sick person: ‘‘I will in your behalf invoke the help of this or that 
idol,”’ as such was really the case with Ben Dama, the nephew of 











APPENDIX A. 133 


R. Ismael (Aboda Zara, 27), it is such a medicinal use of the idol 
that one is energetically warned against. Supposing now that 
the emblems of Christianity too are actually subsumed under the 
category of idols, which is by no means the case, supposing further 
that it is prohibited to seek recovery by their help, even then there 
would be no way of justifying a rationally thinking person in his 
attempting to refer such a prohibition to the Christian Church, or 
to go further yet, and assert that the latter is in the mind of the 
Jews unclean, or, according to Dr. Ecker, altogether the most unclean. 

As an illustration of how the Rabbinical school used to term 
Tumah, we quote an eloquent account of the Mishnah [Iodaim, 4]: 
““The Sadducees were once deriding their antagonists, the Pharisees, 
as follows: ‘How amazingly absurd is your procedure in establish- 
ing laws! the writings of Homer are not defiling while the sacred 
books of the Bible should be subject of defiling; is it not the height 
of absurdity?’ Hereupon replied R. Johanan b. Zakai: You could 
adduce against us yet other analogous but more drastic facts; the 
bones of an ass are not defiling while those of the high-priest Johann 
Hyrcan do defile! How would you solve this paradox ?’’ Whereupon 
the Sadducees answered: ‘‘This is obvious. The position one holds 
when alive is in direct ratio with the uncleanness after death; the 
more revered and beloved one was when alive, the more defiling 
is his corpse.’” Now you see, said R. Johanan b. Zakai, this speaks 
as well as for us, I could turn the very same weapons unto ye! the 
profane writings of Homer—that are not our favorite—are indiffer- 
ent to us, they do not defile; the sacred books which we revere 
and love are subjects of defiling the hands that touch them! 

Now, if according to Dr. Ecker’s and Justus’s literary artifice, 
the Christian Church too belongs ‘‘of course,” to the most unclean, 
is it not possible in the rabbinical sense to construe on the contrary 
a consecration, a proof of superior esteem for the church? Ye 
gentlemen Doctors, where is your wisdom? 

Artifices of this kind can be brought about only by a Dr. Justus, 
who, impregnated with malice and Jew-hatred, misuses ink and paper 
to openly and scornfully defy the truth. And a consecrated priest, 
an academic teacher, stamps his approval upon his tricky work and 
in a sacred place where justice is being administered, whither he, 
credited agreeably to his sect and position, was summoned to con- 
scientiously elucidate the truth, where he might have been made 
to confirm under oath the veracity of his conviction! Verily, Dr. 
Ecker has badly sinned, not only against the Jewish people, but 
also against Christian Germany! Is then in our age the Hebrew 
literature a book sealed with seven seals? Are not there in Ger- 


134 APPENDIX A. 


many also Christian savants who could detect this arbitrary pro- 
cedure, who could trace to its source such a groundless absurdity? 
Would that he may perceive the opinion of the Christian professors, 
Delitzsch, Cassel, etc., expressed with reference to his expert opin- 
ion, he would see then whether they regard his depositions as ac- 
tually impartial, or as of a wholly different nature, he would learn 
whether they agree with him in that the Christian Church too be- 
longs of course to the most unclean! This is, honorable priest of 
the church, your impartiality, such is it prima facie! 

‘*T should like yet to touch here upon the point which was thought to be im- 
portant when Herr Colleague Treu has pointed out that he has nowhere read in the 
‘Shulchan Aruch’ that Christians are worse than dogs. To be sure, it is manifest 
that a law book is not the place to state that the Christians are worse than dogs; but 
it is perverse to infer from here that Dr. Justus has falsified the text. This sentence 


was namely brought forth as a foundation of law 31, where note 3 remarks, however, 
that it is borrowed from the renowned exegete Rashi.” 


We do not know the passage attributed to Rashi. However, 
places of this nature are not rare in the Talmud. Let us quote such 
a passage. The question was discussed, for whom it is allowed to 
prepare food on a holiday; in this connection it reads: “‘ What 
causes you to exclude the Akum from, and to introduce the dogs into, 
thelaw?”’ ‘‘The dogs depend on you in their food and rearing, there- 


fore I treat of them in the law, but the Akum I exclude, for no one | 


is obliged to take care of him,”’ (Betza, 21b). Rashi has surely 
commented on such a place in the Talmud, and Dr. Justus was 
dexterous enough to forge thereof a poisoned arrow and to direct 
it as best it suits his instincts. But is here even a particle of in- 
sinuating contempt and depreciation of an Akum or a Christian? 
In the foregoing quotation the question is discussed as to the pre- 
paring of food on such holidays that do not coincide with the Sab- 
bath, which preparing is allowed only for such persons and animals 
that depend on others in their food. We refer yet the reader to our 
next observation. 

‘* Another point was contended against by Herr Treu, in law 17, which treats of 
the case that the Jews pray when the plague rages in their midst, but not when the 
plague is among animals. Here it reads further: ‘But they do (pray) when the 
plague is among swine, as their intestines resembles those of man, Akewise when the 
plague is among Akum (Christians).’ I agree with Herr Treu that in lieu of ‘ like- 
wise’ should be ‘the more so,’ and therewith the law loses its poignancy, but it looks 
suspicious all the same that in one and the same line the Akum are coupled together 
with swine.” 


The Herr Privatdocent of the royal academy displayed masterly 
skill to excite his audience, and to unbridle the passions of hatred. 
Verily, also we must make an extraordinary effort to control our 





FREE SE PAS 
Se eee fy ERTS 








= 
































APPENDIX A. 135 


agitated mind. The reasons, however, lie by no means in the 
affected depreciation of the human dignity in general, or of that of 
the Akum in particular, no matter who is meant thereby as ascer- 
tained by the Expert, but in the boundless ignorance of this theo- 
logical doctor, which is truly astonishing, nay startling. And yet 
he asserts to have been studying Semitica for ten years! David, . 
the King of Israel, was considered by the older Rabbis, the high- 
est unattainable authority, the ideal of the Jewish people. As 
far as rank and merits are concerned, they put him above the Patri- 
archs Moses and Joshua, each of whom, they tell us, had his hands 
stained in one way or other, wherefore none of them was honored 
with saying the benediction over the goblet. David, however, was 
found wholly stainless, the goblet was predestined for him, and only 
he was allowed to grasp it and praise therewith the Omnipotent! 
This legend is to be found in Talmud (Pesachim, 119). But the very 
same so highly revered David is somewhere else coupled together 
with dogs, and, in defiance of all shame and discretion, treated even 
worse than a dog—in the sense of Justus and Ecker. Itisnamely 
recorded: David died, and his son and successor to the throne, Solo- 
mon, had his messenger ask in the college as follows: ‘‘ The remains of 
my royal father are exposed to the scorching sun rays, the dogs of 
my father’s household are hungry and menace them, may I in view 
of all this touch on the day of Sabbath the remains, and have them 
sheltered?’’ Hereupon came the answer: “First of all satisfy the 
hunger of the dogs by having a carcass cut to them; thereafter put 
upon your father’s corpse a loaf of bread or a child, then you may 
have it removed into the shade.’’ Contemplating this, Solomon 
made in his later years the utterance: “Truly the living dog is 
better than the dead lion.’”’ Thus reads the legend in the Talmud 
(Sabbath, 32). And more yet; of their own people the sages say: 
“Three are insolent, Israel among the nations, the dog among the 
animals, the cock among the birds” (Betza, 25). Who would assert 
that in these passages David and Isreal are depreciated? This 
elementary point should not have escaped the consciousness of a 
theologian trained in the Hebrew and Rabbinical literature, viz., 
that expressions of this kind were current among the law teachers 
of those days, without, however, any intention on their part to either 
elevate or degrade any one! Again, we read in the Talmud (Pesach, 
112): “‘The rabbis taught, there are three who hate one another: 
the dogs, the cocks, and the sages.’’ Others add yet the rival wo- 
men, still others also the teachers at the Babylonian academies. 
Well, Dr. Ecker, what would you say to this point? Could the 
sages find no better company than the dogs, cocks and rivals? And 


136 APPENDIX A. 


again, are the Evangelists more moderate in their language? Does 
not Matthew also call the nations dogs and swine? (Mat., 6, 7). 
Where then is here room for indignation? The patriarch Jacob 
on his death-bed blesses his sons who surround him. Their char- 
acteristic merits and defects he designates by animal forms which 
they resemble. Jehudah he calls a young lion, Naftali a bitch, 
Issachar an ass, Dan a serpent, Benjamin, his youngest favorite, 
a rending wolf. Moses, too, calls in his farewell blessing the tribe 
of Joseph, ‘‘a first-born ox.’’ Should these two reverend old men 
have had the malicious intention, at the most serious moment when 
they were preparing to part with life, to revile and insult? Here 
is a point for Herr Dr. Ecker to meditate on! * 


No. 21. As we are lacking in time we requested the dean of this 
faculty to send us a copy of the curriculum with an admission card, 
so that we might arrive at the exact hour appointed for some lec- 
tures on the Talmud and on theology which we saw announced in 
the programme; to which we received the following letter: 


' Tue JeEwisH THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY OF AMERICA. 
New York, January 5, 1903. 


Dear Sir:—Your letter of the 21st ult. is just beforeme. I have 


not yet been able to send you a copy of the curriculum, which I shall . 


be very glad to do when it is printed. Whilst a weekly curriculum 





* We are convinced that many, yes, very many, offensive passages in the Tal- 
mud are traceable to the Jews-Christians among the Rabbis. Fora long time these 
Jews-Christians remained in close relations with their Jewish brethren, refrained 
from ostentatiously manifesting their belief in the messianism of Jesus ; however, in 
their innermost selves they entertained and nourished a more and more unfolding 
rancor against the teachings as well as against the authority of the law teachers, who 
would by means of all imaginable contrivances interfere with their clandestine plans 
to carry on propaganda for their idea. Jacob from Kefar Sekania and Jacob Minaah 
(Megila, 23) are mentioned as such, and there must have been many of this class. It 
is to these Jews-Christians that we attribute the authorship of some of the above-cited 
sentences that sound in a measure defamatory to the Rabbis. In like manner the 
foregoing David legend may have originated in these circles. Indeed, David was 
far from being stainless ; he himself was conscious of it and expressed it in a peniten- 
tial psalm to which we refer (Psalm 51). But as the pretended ancestor of Jesus the 
adherents of the latter surrounded him with dazzling though undeserved glory. (We, 
in our new edition of the Talmud have omitted both legends concerning David, 
as we are certain they are not to be ascribed to the Rabbis of the Talmud; see 
also our edition [Betza, 49] footnotes. We have omitted the whole saying but 
Maelits, for the same reason.) In this, our pamphlet, from page 35 on, we explain 
all the passages where Aum is mentioned and what it signifies, not by suppositions 
but by facts, and as it is written in the German language, we may refer the reader, 
who would like to know this, to them. 








APPENDIX A. 337 


has been adopted for the year, some of its provisions are still under 
advisement, and I have not deemed it wise to put it in print. 

I have not at the moment any copy of the hours of the lectures 
either, nor do I really think it would be profitable for you to attend 
an occasional lecture, as you suggest. You realize, too, that the 
classes must necessarily consist of young men, that practically 
every hour involves a certain amount of recitation, and that the 
students will feel awkward, or necessarily ill at ease, in the presence 


Sep a 


of some one older than themselves. 
i Yours very truly, 
te S. SCHECHTER, 
i President of the Faculty. 


Michael L. Rodkinson, Esq., 


No. 22. The Jewish Encyclopedia is undoubtedly a monu- 
mental work and most eminent scholars in both continents are 
taking part in it, and there a great many scientific articles which are 
instructive to the students and also many laymen are pleased by 
reading a great deal of articles in every branch. (True, that some 
articles though scientific would be better if omitted in the encyclo- 
pedia. We refer to Dr. P. Mendus’ message to the Union Ortho- 
dox congregations which took place recently.) However, because 
it is a monumental work, we cannot restrain ourselves from re- 
marking that the editors should be more careful in their revision of 
the articles. In Appendix No. 8, we show that the bibliographies 
are not complete and now we will remark that the editors are not 
careful in their biographies. 

There is a short biographical sketch in Vol. I., p. 16, of Aaron 
Ha-Levi Ben Moses of Staroselye, who was our mother’s father. In 
the American Hebrew, June 28, 1901, we have already remarked 
that his family name was Hurwitz, which he received from his 
ancestor, the famous Ishiah Halevi Hurivitz, known by the name 
Shelaw, the author of ‘‘Snee Luchoth Habrith,” and this was 
omitted. 

We have then overlooked that his main and wonderful work, 
‘“‘Sharee Haychud ve Haemuna’”’ (Gates of the Unity (of God) and 
its Creed) is not mentioned. This great work has surprised not only 
the Cabbalists and Chasidim, but also the Maskilim like Sneier 
Zachs and Lazar Zwefel. The former mentioned it in his well- 
known “‘ Hathchia”’ thus: ‘‘and the wonderful work by Aaron Huri- 
vitz”’ and so also the latter in his ‘‘ Solom Al Israel,’’ who speaks of 
it enthusiastically and at length. Remarkable it is that in the 
bibliography of the sketch is mentioned Rodkinson’s ‘‘ Toldath 


a 
> 


H 
4 
¥ 
i 
ys 
i 
7 
ta 
a 
} & 
33 
Me 
toy 
Ay 
tua 
Md 
te 


‘ 


AP 





138 APPENDIX B. 


Amude Hachabad” and in this book his family name as well as the 
above-mentioned work with more particulars are to be found. By 
this we see that the editor of this subject did not care to look up the 
bibliography at least to make it correct. He should at least have © 
seen Fiinns’ ‘‘ Kneset Israel,’’in which the name and the books 
are mentioned. 

All this concerns the incorrect biography. Should we count the 
omissions of the names of very great men, even only of Aaron and 
Abraham of all classes, who ought to be mentioned in the encyclo- 
pedia, who played a great rédle in Israel, it would take too much 
space and time. A glance into our Biographie sdémmtlicher Rab- 
biner der Gouvernments Vollhynien, Podolien, Ukraine, Gross- u. 
Klein-Polen und Galizien von Jahre 1695 bis 1876 (Konigsberg 
1876), pp. 30-34, will convince the reader of this. 


APPENDIX B. 


CRITICISM TO CHAPTER VII (KARAITES). THE BELIEF OF SADDU- 
CEES, KARAITES, AND OF THE REFORMED JEWS. 


Dr. MICHAEL L. RODKINSON. 

Sir :—Having read your article about the ‘‘ The Karaites” in The American 
Hebrew (23-24), though in general I have found therein likely and probable things, 
I cannot forbear from calling your attention to several points on which, in my opinion, 
it behooves not a man like you to take a partial view, while presenting to the readers 
a historic account. It is the duty of every fair writer of history to give an account of 
the facts without any personal bias, and where there is a difference of opinion, with- 
out sufficient evidence for demonstrating the truth of any, then it is the duty of the 
historian to state as much, and if he is able to decide between them, he should give 
his opinion also; if not, he shall leave the task of deciding to some of the readers 
who might be able, perhaps, todo so. But you have not done so. 

You have written (p. 685) that when Anan saw, etc., and have ignored, or are 
unaware of, what the head of our poets, R. Jehudah Halevi, wrote in his ‘‘ Cuzari,” 
III., 65, that in the time of Jehudah b. Tabi and Simon b. Shetah Karaism com- 
menced an account of what happened between the Sages and the King Janzeus, etc., 
see carefully that passage, you will find there that R. Jehudah Halevi admits that the 
doctrine of the Karaites is an ancient one. And you ought to mention this fact. 

So also I do not agree with you in what you say, that at present are found only 
4—5,000 Karaites in the world. For, in my opinion, the Reformers in Europe and 
America must be regarded as Karaites, as they decided at their Congress at Rochester 
that they do not consider the Talmud as authoritative, and that only the Pentateuch 
is the basis of their doctrines. If it is so, then they are evidently also Karaites. And 
if in some ceremonies they differ from the contemporary Karaites, for this reason we 
cannot separate them from them. ‘You yourself enumerate sects among the Kamaites 
distinguished from each other in their ceremonies, and yet they all avow themselves 
to be Karaites, 











ie a 


See ses Foe 


areas 


5 


Sane le 


Mig ih a i 


Pease 
a 


ae eS 
aaa ie 
ters 


Sesopee nt ee 
Ke 


CT ae 


=a 


ee 
= [> 
; 








SPECT Poe 


APPENDIX B. 139 


This is what I have wanted to remark, and if you are conscientious, you will 
modify this, not to mislead the future generations who will read your history, and 
thereby you will insure yourself against critics, who condemn a whole book when 
they find in it one thing which is not quite right. 

Your obedient servant, 
Isaac LEvi SHALIT. 


Answer. 


With many thanks for your ingenious remarks, and for your love 
of truth and eagerness to save me from unfair critics, I state at your 
desire what I have to say in reply, and what I have omitted in the 
article itself, viz.: 

First—let it be known that I am not writing the history of the 
Karaites, but that of the Talmud, and mention those who have con- 
tributed to its extension and diffusion, as well as those who perse- 
cuted it, from the time it had begun to develop till to-day. For 
this purpose it does not matter whether Karaites were an old or a 
new sect, from the time of Anan, as all admit that they persecuted 
the Talmud to the utmost. And I, who have been, obliged to give 
briefly the history of the Karaites for the reason that they perse- 
cuted the Talmud, used as authorities the latest historians who have 
treated this subject, as Pinsker, Graetz, Ftirst, Geiger and Gottlober, 
who have all decided that it was an invention of Anan himself. 
But out of respect to truth, I am bound to tell you that I was not 
unaware of, nor did I conceal, what is written about the Karaite 
sect in the ‘“‘Cuzari.’”’ For of this has the head of the reformed 
rabbis, the learned scholar Holdheim, written long ago, in his book 
““Maamar Haishuth,” as much as it is worth, and philosophized 
about the assertions in the ‘“‘Chasar,’’ but he also found that he had 
been mistaken in this (or that he was compelled to write this, for 
reasons unknown to us at the present day; I myself say, he wrote 
thus because in his days the Chasars were reported to also be Kara- 
ites, and he who made his book in the form of a controversy be- 
tween a Karaite and Rabbi did not want to charge it with being a 
new sect, but admitting one point, namely, that it is an old sect, he 
still urged that there is no foundation for it). And to make you, . 
and those who entertain the same opinion, to cease to think that 
the reformers of the present time are ‘‘ Karaites,” and also that the 
readers may know what the Karaites plead; that the Karaite sect 
has been from the time of Moses, who was himself a Karaite, and 
the Rabbinical innovation dates from Jeroboam b. Nebat, we have 
only to quote from the above-mentioned book of Holdheim, p. 117, 
etc., and also what he wrote to refute their assertions, p. 122, and 
also what we will find to remark on his words. 


140 - APPENDIX B. 


* It is known that according to the opinion of the Karaites them- 
selves in their books, their belief and their tradition is identical with 
the Pentateuch. Together with the body of the Pentateuch, the 
Lord communicated to Moses an oral comment, and he communi- 
cated to his contemporaries, who transmitted it to the succeeding 
generations till the death of Solomon. When the people was split 
into two parties, one adhered to Rehoboam, and the other followed 
Jeroboam, who sinned and led his party into sin. The Karaites 
named their traditions the inherited yoke and burden, and accord- 
' ing to them there was during all that time only one Torah for the 
whole people, as one God, and the text and its interpretation were 
inseparable and sprung from the same source, the father of the 
Karaites being Moses himself, the trusted pastor who carried all 
his people on his shoulders. As Jeroboam was one of those who 
had received the tradition transmitted from age to age as above- 
mentioned, and one of the men of the Great Sanhedrin, fearing that 
the royal power should be recovered by David’s dynasty, he in- 
vented strange and spurious interpretations of the Torah to replace 
the good ones and true ones which the Sanhedrin had by tradition. 
He presented it to the people, whom he misled, and brought to evil. 
The nation believed him, followed in his footsteps, exchanged most - 
commandments of the Torah for others, subtracted, added, at their 
pleasure. Since then Israel was divided into two sects, and the 
Torah became two rival and hostile Torahs. Judea kept the law 
according to the ancient custom received from Moses without any 
change, addition or subtraction, Karaism being the modern con- 
tinuation thereof. Israel, on the other hand, observed the laws 
according to the new manner, with alterations, additions and sub- 
tractions invented by Jeroboam, and Rabbinism is its continuation ; 
later false prophets rose in Israel, and, claiming divine inspiration, 
misguided them, and even some of Judea, etc. But Judea, never- 
theless, continued to be the seat of the Mosaic tradition, as the 
majority adhering most to the truth. However, as the Temple 
was demolished, most prophets, priests, Levites and Sanhedrin were 
slain, while those left alive were mostly of the sinners. Therefore 
at the restoration of the second Temple, even while there still were 
prophets, who are called the ‘‘ good figs,” there were two sects and 
two separate Torahs. After the cessation of prophetic inspiration 
this split grew and widened. The party holding by the truth said 
the Torah was only that one written by Moses and given to Israel; 
the party believing in the falsehood said there were two Torahs, 





* Translated almost verbatim from Mamar Haishuth. 

















APPENDIX B. 141 


written and oral, invented by Jeroboam and the false prophets, and 
which they also referred to Moses, who received it (according to 
them) from the Lord. Thus it continued till the time of Matthew, 
the Hasmonean (Maccabee), when Antiochus the Wicked, wishing 
to suppress altogether the Jewish lore, in which time of calamities 
all great sages of the Sanhedrin who had the true tradition of the 
comment and the Torah were all murdered, and the tradition till 
then transmitted, was now severed, and the greater part of the 
comment and the Torah was lost and forgotton, only an infini- 
tesimal fraction being left. This fact took place in the year 3560 
after creation. 

As Matthew triumphed, and peace was restored in the land, the 
men of intellect sat down to learn the Torah and understand it with 
the aid of their reason. But owing to its great depth, they could 
not comprehend it, and many diverse opinions existed. Thus the 
differences between sects, Karaite as well as Rabbinical, arose, and 
persist to these days. 

The quarrel between the two sects grew in violence till the time 
of the king and high-priest Janeus was reached, and something 
happened between the sages and him, as is well known, so that he 
- massacred all the sages in his anger, and none remained except one 
great man of each sect, Jehudah b. Tabai, who held the truth, and 
Simeon b. Shetah, drawn after the false doctrine of Jeroboam b. 
Nebat and the false prophets. The king, wishing to kill both, 
Jehudah b. Tabai hid in Jerusalem, and Simeon b. Shetah was the 
queen’s brother, who facilitated his escape to Egypt, where he 
stayed three years; being there, he learned from the Israelite sages 
found there since the destruction of the first Temple, and the days 
of Jeremiah, all the strange comments invented by Jeroboam and 
the false prophets. Simeon b. Shetah added thereto some of his 
own, and built there a great temple and sacrificed there, though 
it was not the chosen place; and after his return to Jerusalem he 
wanted to be a great lord in Israel, and taught, therefore, the people 
what he had acquired in Egypt, as the oral law communicated to 
Moses, and transmitted by him; and, because he was the king’s 
brother-in-law and had much influence at the court, his false doc- 
trines became popular among Israel, who received the false Torah 
instead of the true one. 

After that Israel was divided into two parties, and the quarrel 
commenced also in the Sanhedrin, the heads of the nation, and heirs 
and teachers of the Torah. One sect went after R. Jehudah b. 
Tabai and was called Sadducees (Zadikim) (Upright), from the 
phrase ‘‘hearken unto me, ye that pursue righteousness’”’ (Zadik) 


142 APPENDIX B. 


[Is. li., 1.], and their justice is everlasting justice, and their Torah 
is truth; Karaism is a continuation thereof. The second sect fol- 
lowed Simeon b. Shetah, and were called Pharisees (Parushim), 
separatists, for separating themselves from the old faith of Israel. 
This state of things continued from 3650 after creation, from the 
time of Jehudah b. Tabai, till the ruin of the second Temple, year 
3828. At that epoch, the majority of the Sadducees were slain, 
but the Pharisees mostly survived, for which there were two causes: 
first, because those of the Sadducaic party were the political and 
warlike men, while the Pharisees were humble and were students; 
secondly, because the Sadducees were stricter in observing the 
duties, and their conduct was of much holiness and purity, and had 
seen that if they were to be exiled, being an unclean earth, and with- 
out water for removing the uncleanness, they could not keep the 
law as it ought to be; therefore they were martyrs, choosing to be 
murdered rather than live, and all were killed for the sanctification 
of the Lord. Put the Pharisees who were not strict, and were not 
afraid of the ruin of the Temple or exile, and chose life rather than 
death, and went out to Titus, the Wicked, and, surrendering, were 
all left alive. Therefore, after the ruin of the Temple the Pharisees 
rose in power, whereas the Sadducees declined. Thus it continued 
till R. Jehudah the Nassi, the editor of the Mishna. He collected 
all comments, good and bad, true and false, ancient and recent, all 
together; he wrote them down in a book without making distinc- 
tions between the sacred and profane, unclean and clean; he decided 
and declared that they are all Sinaic. This occurred in 3945. 
After the conclusion of the Mishna, rose up those who composed 
the Palestinian and Babylonian Talmuds, and from that time on 
the quarrel grew in force, and the hate, rivalry and jealousy grew 
between the two sects, the Sadducees and Pharisees. For the 
Sadducees held the true Torah, written by Moses our teacher, and 
those few true comments that have been left from many; but the 
Pharisees abandoned the written Torah and ignored it as of subor- 
dinate importance, and clung to the oral law, that is, the Mishna 
and the Talmud, making it the thing of the first importance, saying 
that tradition will be victorious. They said every one who studies 
the written law has fulfilled only partially his obligations, but every 
one who studies Mishna or Talmud he has completely discharged 
his obligations; every one who trangresses the written law is cul- 
pable of stripes, who transgresses the words of the sages is guilty of 
capital punishment, and that one should not object even if they say 
to you of the right that it is the left, and of the left that it is the - 
right and similar erroneous teachings. Thus it continued to be till 














APPENDIX B. 143 


the time of Anan the Nassi, the Holy and the Saint, the son of David 
the Nassi, in the year 4400 after the creation. Anan * lived in 
Babylonia and was of the Sadducees, and for his great wisdom 
Israel, Sadducees as well as Pharisees, chose him as Nassi, as the 
head of Beth Din and Exilarch. After his instalment as Nassi and 
head of Beth Din by the sanction of the Arabian monarch, and the 
will of all Israel, he became zealous for God and his Torah, and 
wished to restore it to its primitive purity; he commenced to plead 
against the oral law, 7.¢., the Mishna, and deny and declare it as 
nought. When the Pharisaic sect perceived all this, they rose upon 
him and devised stratagems to kill him. But out of fear of the king, 
they did not lay their hands on him, but denounced him to the king 
that he had rebelled against the law of the government, but the king 
pitied him and saved him from them, and so he was left alive. When 
Anan perceived that the Pharisees did not want to return to the 
truth, he was disgusted with being a Nassi, left his house and pos- 
sessions in Babylonia, and departed with his sons and disciples to 
Jerusalem, the Sacred City. He built there a synagogue, ‘‘The 
Temple of God,” to pray and to weep morning, noon and evening; 
and perceiving that the Pharisees were increasing, and that the 
Sadducees decreased, and fearing lest the true Torah be forgotten 
entirely, and lest the Sadducees be absorbed in time by the Phari- 
sees, he commanded his disciples, friends and acquaintances, to 
keep themselves apart from the sect of the Pharisees wholly and 
with the utmost possible strictness. He forbade them to eat their 
foods, for they are not careful about all kinds of uncleanness, and 
eat carcasses and tallow prohibited by the Torah. So also he for- 
bade them to intermarry with them, because they had trespassed 
the barriers of consanguinity. And Anan interpreted the Torah 
and commandments according to the true comment, as he had re- 
ceived it from his fathers and masters by tradition, who belonged 
to the sect of Sadducees, continuing from the oldest times; and as 
the whole Sadducean doctrine is founded on the text of the Holy 
Scriptures, Pentateuch, Prophets and Hagiographas, therefore Anan 
the Nassi called the Sadducean sect ‘‘ Karaites,’’ (Karaim), that is, 
who are called and go in their simplicity. (Ba’ale Mikre): and as 
the whole object of the Pharisees was to pursue high positions and 
lordliness, and also because they are many in comparison with the 





* It is well known that the Karaites make Anan’s life date 100 years earlier than 
in reality, i.¢., 4400. But S. L. Rapoport, in his ‘‘ Kerem Chemed,” p, 203, has 
explained and proved their mistake, from the testimony of Sherira the Gaon, and 
the ‘‘ Book of Tradition,” by Abraham b. David, that Anan rose in the age of Jehuda 
the Gaon, who was a Gaon from 4516 to 4529%. 


144 APPENDIX B. 


few Karaites, he called them ‘‘Rabbanim,”’ (lords, many), that is, 
the adherents of the Mishna and Talmud... . 

This is the opinion of the Karaites themselves about their his- 
tory, and that every one who wishes to know and understand all 
the errors of the Rabbis (according to them), should see the Book 
of God’s Wars, (‘‘Sepher Milhamoth Adonai’’), by Salman b. Je- 
rucham, and the Admonitory letter (‘‘Igereth Hatochachath’’), by 
Sahal Hakohen, and ‘“‘Eshkol Hakopher,” by Jehudah Hadasi 
Haabel (the Mourner), he called himself thus for mourning, and 
“‘ Apiryon Asah,”’ and ‘‘L’hem Sheorim,’’ by R. Solomon the Turk, 
also the ‘‘Asara Maamaroth,” of Elijah the Jerusalemite, and the 
‘“Amuna Omen” by Abraham b. Joshua the Jerusalemite, all 
which books are written to refute the false Rabbinical laws ; and 
of the Rabbinical sages after Anan they say that when they saw 
that the plain and just truth is evidently on the side of the Sad- 
ducees, they invented about them calumnies, that they were Sad- 
ducees and Bithusiaus followers of Zaduk and Bithus, the infidels, 
and their glory they confounded with shame by conscious falsehood 
for whereas they had been called Tzadikim from ancient times, 
they altered their name to Tzadukim (Sadducees, Zadukim), fol- 
lowers of Tsaduk, etc., etc.”’ 

. * Here we have given to the reader what we have briefly 
quoted so far as needful for our purpose, and to spare much of our 
own discussion by citing the words of another. From ‘“‘Orah 
Tzadikim”’ treating of the split between the Karaites and Rabbis, 
written by the scholarly rabbi, Sim’ha Isaac of Lutzki in 5516. 
And we, desiring to call the attention of scholars and thinkers to 
the affirmations of the Karaites themselves about their ancient 
history, both their charges against us and their justifications of 
themselves, have abridged their statements, for it is our duty to 
hear what they say for themselves, and try to separate the truths 
from the falsehoods as impartial judges, not as advocates. 

And, before all, I say, the man is dreaming who speaks that the 
difference between the Karaites and Rabbis began in the time of 
Rehoboam; the son of Solomon, and of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, 
when Israel revolted against David’s dynasty. And if the Rabbis 
were to make such a senseless assertion, that the rebels against 
_ David’s dynasty were the same that the Karaites are, beyond doubt 
the Karaites would say that they pervert the words of the living 
God and deny what is written in the Prophets, that Jeroboam led 
away the people from the worship of the true God who had pro- 





* Page 122, Holdheim’s opinion. 

















APPENDIX B. 145 


tected them ‘rom the times of Egypt till then, toserve golden calves 
which he had made, and made a festival in a wrong month which 
he invented that the people should not go to celebrate the holidays 
at Jerusalem, and the royalty not be restored to David’s house. 
The Karaites state here a strange fiction, which is ridiculed by every 
one who has any knowledge of books. 

Besides that, any one who has eyes to see, ears to hear, and a 
palate to taste, that which is written in the Scriptures, is aware that 
during all the time of the prophets till the exile of Israel and Judea 
from their land and captivity in the land of their enemies, the quar- 
rel between the parties was not about the interpretation of the 
Torah, or about the reasons of the commandments, but about the 
Torah itself, between those who knew it and those who did not 
know it, between the worshippers of the true God and the idolators. 
The prophets of the true God, and the best element of the people 
who followed them, have served God and loved him, and were his 
true servants, adhered to him and observed his commandments and 
his law. But the king and the common people devoted themselves 
to drink, to idolatry, adultery, and other uncleanness of the other 
nations of their time. 

And truly, the author of the ‘‘Orach Zadikim,”’ as well as the 
writers whom he quotes, have not adhered to the truth but in- 
dulged in falsehoods, by fixing the beginning of this quarrel at 
a time which it was impossible to have begun. And if the author 
and his co-religionists fully believe that the present Pentateuch 
was known to and in the possession of the names in the days of 
David and Solomon, Rehoboam and Jeroboam, and that, to- 
gether with the written Torah and its commentaries it was in the 
possession of the Sanhedrin and the members of the great. and 
small Beth Din of those days, as the same belief was entertained 
by the Pharisees from the written Torah and its commentaries,— 
we will not plead with them to question or reflect upon this be- 
lief, and state from the investigations of the modern as well as 
the ancient critics, that the Pentateuch was at that time of recent 
date and no one knew of it because it had been written only in 
the days of Solomon, and no one had seen it,—for it would be 
unfair to refute a warranted belief on one hand by a total denial 
on the other. But we will argue from the standpoint of the Ka- 
taites themselves, who adhere to the text and deny the commen- 
taries which are conflicting with the ordinary interpretation of the 
Scripture. For they themselves have interpreted the Scripture 
wrongly, and ascribed to it a meaning which has never been in- 
tended, by stating that the quarrel between Israel and Judea, 


DF 
| 
> & 
. 
. 
¢ 
7 
| 
. f 
a 
>i 
a 


10 


a 


—— a en nee 
es See: A! ee pe 





146 APPENDIX B. 


or between Jeroboam and Rehoboam, has caused a quarrel, in 
no way or manner resembling it, between the Karaites and the 
Rabbis regarding the interpretation of the Scripture. This is one 
of those falsehoods which have absolutely no foundation what- 
ever, and are shunned by those who are able to distinguish be- 
tween truth and falsehood. 

The statement that the difference between the Karaites and 
Rabbis dates from the time the difference between Jehudah b. 
Tabai and Simeon b. Shetah broke out, etc., is nothing but a net 
spread out by the Karaites to catch therein the people of Israel, 
etc. But it is up to date not known who is the author of this 
statement and who circulated it among the Karaites that they 
might make it the foundation of their structure, which founda- 
tion, if demolished, would cause the ruin of the whole structure. 

There is no doubt in our mind that the Karaites have borrowed 
this statement from the Pharisees when endeavoring to separate 
from the Sadducees, whom they also considered as infidels, and 
to erect a new edifice for themselves, for the Pharisees also con- 
sider Simeon b. Shetah to have restored the Torah to her old 
glory, as they state in the mentioned Boraitha: ‘‘The world was 
embarrassed until Simeon b. Shetah appeared and restored the 
Torah to her former state.’”’ And here they found an opportunity 
to use the Pharisees’ arguments against them. The Pharisees say 
that after the massacre of the sages and those learned in the tra- 
ditional law by Johanan Hyrcanus, the oral law was forgotten in 
Israel till Simeon b. Shetah came and restored it. By oral law 
is meant that traditional comment on the Torah as it was after- 
ward written down and concluded by R. Jehudah the Nasi and 
his successors in the Mishna and Talmud against which the Ka- 
taites protest. Now, the difference between restoration and inno- 
vation is insignificant, and what the Pharisees and Rabbis term 
restoration the Karaites name innovation, and maintain that Simeon 
b. Shetah made a new law, that is the oral law which was unknown 
previously, and had not descended to them from their forefathers: 
and from this new law a new quarrel sprung forth among those 
who believed in tradition, which quarrel has no connection what- 
ever with the old controversy between the disciples of Sadduk 
_and Bithus, the infidels, and the Josees, the believers, on whom 
all Israel leant. 

As for the statement of the Karaites above mentioned that their 
belief dates from the time of the second Temple, etc., and that 
only Anan brought it to light again, after it had disappeared, the 
same was very ably criticised by the scholarly rabbi, S. J. Rapa- 











xh 


APPENDIX B. 147 


port (‘‘Kerem Hemed,” p. 200), by laying out his own plan for 
the investigation of the causes of the Karaite history; he says, 
namely: ‘‘The activity of Anan was not isolated in its kind, 
but it was only a link in the chain of the history of the nations 
of those days. For there existed religious differences among the 
Arabians, some holding only the Koran and what Mahomet com- 
municated to his son-in-law Eli, and who are known as the Shitin; 
while some held the traditions communicated by Mahomet, his 
wife and son-in-law, his sons, and many disciples, who are 
known as the Shonin.”’ 

And it seems that this religious quarrel has, to our shame, in- 
fected the Jews; Anan and Saul, his sons, tried to establish a 
new sect in Israel similar to the Shitin, for they thought that the 
Arabian high officers would assist them, for they would be at one 
with them in taking for the basis of their belief only what is written 
in the text, and to deny tradition. And how many times have 
religious movements, similar to those, taken place among the 
nations among which we live, even in our own times. 

Having thus laid before the reader the views of the Karaites 
themselves, z.c., of those later Karaites who endeavored to justify 
Anan for his complete separation from the Rabbanism, although 
Anan himself was very far from doing so, as can easily be seen 
by every one who has some sense of his own, from the statement — 
of Anan: “And I will prepare you a Mishnaand Talmud myself,”’ 
(vide supra, p. 27), and also some of the opinions of the scholars 
Holdheim and Rapaport, we wish to submit our own opinion 
in regard to this matter. 

In our judgment they all erred in making the following two 
assertions, viz: that the Sadducees did not believe in retribution 
in the world to come; and that the Talmudists had no knowledge 
of a sect naming itself, or which was named by others, Karaites. 
The error in making these assertions caused them to draw far- 
fetched inferences and to write a number of articles, which will 
not stand any proper criticism. For Holdheim, in refuting upon 
the assertion of the Karaites that their sect was founded in the 
days of Jehudah b. Tobai, fixes their origin at a much prior date, 
by stating that the Sadducees and Karaites are one and the same 
sect, and that the latter name was adopted by them at a later 
date, but at the time of the Talmud they were known by the 
former name, and that accounts for not finding the name Karaites 
in the Talmud, (see at length, ibid., p. 25), basing his assertions 
on Maimonidus and Abraham b. David of Paskira. Some of these 
assertions may be found in Rapaport, although he tries to recon- 


148 APPENDIX B. 


cile both sides. And because the Karaites differed from the Sad- 
ducees in that the latter did not believe in resurrection, and, 
according to him, also not in retribution after death, Holdheim 
asserts that the Karaites, who are the same as the Sadducees, 
have adopted that belief only at a later date, when that belief 
has already been adopted by all other nations and religions. 

And coming to such conclusion he justifies the Sadducees and 
their views, and gives them preference over the Rabbanism and 
their. views, which constitutes almost the whole subject of his 
book. But we will prove his error, and therefore most of his as- 
sertions will prove of no value, and the Talmudists and their 
views and teachings will remain true and everlasting. 

But before attempting to explain ourselves in more detail we 
feel it our duty to say a few words in regard to Resurrection, which 
is the basis of the whole contention between the scholars above 
mentioned and the sects themselves. 


The first Mishna in Chapt, Halek (Sanhedrin) reads: ‘‘ The fol- | 


lowing have no share in the world to come: the one who says the 
Resurrection does not originate from the Pentateuch,” which is 
explained by Rashi as follows: ‘‘t.e., he who does not believe in 
the inferences drawn later on in the German that resurrection orig- 
inates from the Bible; and even if he does believe in resurrection, 
but says that it does not originate from the Pentateuch, he is an 
infidel, for if he does not believe in its origin from the Bible what 
do we care for him or his belief? Wherefrom does he know that 
so it is? He is, therefore, a perfect infidel.’”’ And although 
some doubt whether these quoted words came from the pen of 
Rashi, because it was not Rashi’s way to enter into lengthy ex- 
planations, still all concede that it expresses the true meaning of 
the Mishna. 

Now, if we will take the true intent of the Talmudists, that 
although one believes in resurrection he is an infidel, if he does 
not believe that its origin is from the Pentateuch, we will at once 
conceive that when the latter belief began to circulate among 
all nations and among the masses of Israel to such an extent that 
it was considered an essential element of the belief in God, and 
that any religion which did not consider it one of its dogmas, was 
not worthy of being ranked as a religion at all, the Talmudists 


endeavored to prove the origin of this belief from the Pentateuch 


and that other nations and religions borrowed it from that source, 
in order to refute those who asserted that its origin was in the 
New Testament and, therefore, the latter was the principal re- 
ligion and the former ceased to exist. 


a TS : 














, TSRARY 
KNOX COLLEGE, 
TORONTO SD 


APPENDIX B. 149 


We will now take up another Mishna in Tract Berachoth, p. 54a: 
*‘Since the Sadducees have perversely taught that there is only 
one state of existence, it was ordained that it shall be pronounced: 
‘From Eternity to Eternity,’” which Rashi explains, 2.e., “that 
they denied resurrection.”” Rashi again diverts the Mishna from 
its plain meaning, that the Sadducees did not admit the existence 
of the world to come, 12.e., retribution after the soul separates from 
the body, and limited their disbelief to resurrection only; (and 
that the meaning of “‘perversely taught’’ means that they per- 
verted from their own opinions and taught the masses that belief). 

It is self-evident that the perversion of the Sadducees consisted, 
according to Rashi, only in denying the inferences drawn to es-- 
tablish the origin of resurrection in the Pentateuch. But from 
the dispute of the Sadducees with the founder of the Christian 
religion, or with his disciples, and from the derisive question, 
‘““whom of them a widow of seven brothers will marry after resur- 
rection,” which is quoted in the work of Azariah Di Rossi, we 
can easily see that the Sadducees did not believe in resurrection 
at all. 

If we will examine carefully the interpretations of the Tal- 
mudists in desiring to find a hint for resurrection in the Pentateuch, 
and that they did not infer it from the plain statement (Deutr. 
xxxii. 39): ‘“‘JI alone kill and I make alive; I wound and I heal,” 
which, on every occasion they explained to mean ‘‘as the healing 
follows the wound, so also does life follow death ’’ (see Ben Ezra), 
but resorted to far-fetched interpretations instead, we will clearly 
see that the Talmudists did not wish to state that resurrection is 
expressly stated in the Pentateuch, for in such case they would, 
of necessity, have to admit that this belief was known and cir- 
culating at the time the Pentateuch was given. They only wanted 
to find some slight reference to it in the Pentateuch, and were of 
the opinion that the belief in resurrection was known only to a 
limited number of select men, but not to the masses, from whom 
it was kept secret, for fear that they might as well believe in 
“familiar spirits” and “wizards”’ (‘Ob and Yaduni’”’), or in ‘“‘in- 
quiring of the dead.’’ But only after this belief has been bor- 
rowed from the neighboring nations and has been adopted by the 
masses, the Talmudists found it necessary to find some source 
for it in the Pentateuch in order to strengthen the latter, although 
not explicitly stated therein. 

It follows from all this that at the time the Mosaic Law was 
proclaimed, that belief was not only not obligatory, but on the 
contrary every effort was made to keep it from the masses, and, 


150 APPENDIX B. 


therefore, no promises were made as to resurrection, but only as 
to longevity and tranquillity during life-time. 

When, however, the founder of Christianity made this belief 
one of its dogmas and minimized the Old Testament, the Tal- 
mudists made it obligatory to believe that its source is in the 
Pentateuch. And the Sadducees who rejected this belief at all 
were considered as disbelievers. 

But we find nowhere that the Sadducees ever denied the im- 
mortality of the soul or that they ever denied the belief in retri- 
bution after death, for according to all opinions the Sadducees 
were not the disciples of Autigonus of Socho, Zaduck and Bithus, 
who, according to a statement in Aboth d’Rabbi Nathan, rejected 
the belief in retribution. The name Sadducees, as we have said 
in the beginning of this article, had its origin from Zaduck the 
high priest of David, according to Geiger’s opinion. Or, perhaps, 
Holdheim’s opinion is the correct one, viz.: that in the beginning 
they were surnamed ‘‘ Zadikim,” as Simon the high priest was 
surnamed the ‘“‘ Zadik.”’ 

Neither do we find anywhere that the Sadducees repulsed the 
statement of the Talmudists, to wit: ‘‘In order that thy days 
may be prolonged” (Deutr. v. 16), that means in the world to 
come which is prolonged (endless), and as the simple proof, if one 
say to his son: “‘go up on the roof and examine the bird’s nest, 
and take the young ones, and send away the mother, in both of 
which (sending away the mother and honoring the father) longev- 
ity is the promised compensation in the Pentateuch; and the son 
in doing so fell and was killed; how can the promise be fulfilled? 
We must, therefore, say that the promised longevity has reference 
to life after death.” Nor is it anywhere found that the Saddu- 
cees refuted the statement of the Talmudists: ‘‘ That person 
shall be cut off ’’ (Numb. xv. 31); that it means, ‘‘ he should be 
cut off from this world as well as from the world to come.” 

The assertion of those who consider themselves competent to 
make it, that there is no basis in the Pentateuch for the immor- 
tality of the soul, is not correct, for besides the many plain pas- 
sages indicating that, the same can also be established from the 
necessity of the marrying the widow of the deceased childless 
brother, for if the soul is mortal what is the benefit of ‘raising 
- up the deceased’s name?” So, also, greatly err those who, from 
this very passage, draw a contrary conclusion, 1.e., by asserting 
that because the soul dies together with the body the Pentateuch 
commanded that decedent’s name be raised up if he die childless, 
for if the soul dies as does the body, why all that trouble of mar- 






ee 











APPENDIX B. 151 


rying the widow, or the ceremony of the ‘‘Chalitza,” and spitting 
out before the one who refuses to marry the widow of his deceased 
childless brother, as commanded by the Pentateuch? If the soul 
derives no benefit therefrom, why all that? There is no honor 
in all that either for the dead or for the living, and it is very well 
known that this custom of raising up the name of the deceased 
on his estates was known and observed in ancient times, and the 
family that did not observe this custom incurred disrespect. 
Thus far as to the Pentateuch, but as regards the prophets or 
Hygiogropha only a blind man can fail to find in them retribution 
and immortality of the soul after death. The whole book of 
Isaiah is full of that, and it says plainly (Isa, lvi. 4-5): ‘‘For 
thus saith the Lord concerning the eunuchs (those who die 
childless) I will indeed give unto them, in my house and within 
my walls, a place and a name better than sons and daughters, an 
eternal name—they shall not be cut off.’”’ And not to mention 
about the early and the later Hygiogropha (Ps., xvi. 10): ‘‘Thou 
will not abandon my soul to the grave,” and also (ibid. xxvii. 13): 
“Unless I had believed to see the goodness of the Lord in the 
Land of life.” And it is also explicitly stated, (ibid. xxv. 13): 
“His soul shall abide in happiness; and his descendants shall in- 
herit the land.” Now, how can it enter the mind that the Saddu- 
cees, who, according to Holdheim, are the Karaites, whose only 
endeavor was to give the whole Scripture, not only the Pentateuch, 
the illiteral meaning of the words will deviate from the literal 
meaning, and explain all those passages as referring only to this 
earthly life? We can also see from the fact that the Sadducees 
were more strict as to purification than the Pharisees in going as 
far as saying that profane writings (the book of Homer) make 
the hands unclean, to such an extent that if they touch Terumah 
the latter must not be eaten; that they believed in immortality 
of the soul, which they considered to such an extent clean that they 
will not tolerate the least uncleanliness in a sacred thing. And 
how much did the Sadducees sacrifice themselves in order to pre- 
vent the enemy from defiling the sanctuary? How much did they 
sacrifice themselves for the sake of the Holy name (QDWMWIT)D), 
which no one who does not believe in immortality would 
do? But Holdheim seems to advance a strange assertion, viz., that 
the Sadducees believed in immortality of the soul and neverthe- 
less denied retribution, which we can by no means understand, be- 
cause what is the benefit of immortality if there is no retribution? 
If all are equal and alike after death, the righteous and the wicked, 
the wise and the fool? (The philosophy of Aristotle concedes 


152 . APPENDIX B. 


at least that the soul of the righteous unite with the oypndow) 
after death, but according to Holdheim there is absolutely no 
preference to the human soul over that of the animal). It is true 
that we heard some few years ago (in 1885) in Leipsic, at a meet- 
ing of spiritualists,in company of the late Dr. Mandelkern, a profes- 
sor, state in his lecture that the spirit of a certain man who, during 
his lifetime was one of the easy-minded, rested upon his shoulders 
for about two weeks, and that he was then of the same disposition 
as before death, and from this he drew the conclusion that the 
soul remains the same after death, in the spiritual world, as during 
the lifetime, but we hardly believe Holdheim ever entertained 
this belief, which is contrary to common sense, and still more, 
he endeavors to make his beloved Sadducees entertain such belief. 

Dr. Geiger’s opinion that the whole contention between the 
Sadducees and Pharisees was originally over political affairs, the 
former struggling to have the control over such affairs, because 
of their descent from prominent families, and the latter not de- 
siring to submit, and from this the contention extended to civil 
and religious matters; the Pharisees being extremely faithful to 
their traditions saw in everything the Sadducees differed from 
them, a denial in tradition;—seems to be more correct, as being 
also supported by history. The same theory is followed by I. 
H. Weiss in his work ‘‘Dor Dor V’dorshow,’”’ who proves con- 
clusively that the Pharisees always laid down their decisions in 
direct opposition to that of the Sadducees in order to prevent 
the masses from joining the ranks of the latter. In fact, we see 
that the differences between the two sects, mentioned in the Tal- 
mud, were as to minor things which have very little to do with 
religious dogmas. We also have proved at the end of Tract Sab- 
bath of our new edition, from page 381 on, that all the eighteen 
precautionary measures adopted by the Pharisees at the attic of 
Hananiah, were directed against the priests who mostly belonged 
to the Sadducees. 

We do not mean to rebuke the Pharisees for having acted thus, 
for they did so of necessity, because the Sadducees endeavored 
to transplant Hellenism into the Hebrew religion in such a manner 
that it should not be noticed, and in order to guard against this they 
_ opposed the decisions of the Sadducees even when the latter were 
not contrary to the true teachings of the Torah, for (Ps. cxix. 
126): “It is time to act for the Lord: they have broken thy law.”’ 

It is very probable that because the belief in resurrection was 
so deeply rooted among the masses, because it is very natural 
that one should desire to meet again his relatives alive after they 

















APPENDIX B. 153 


had once died, and the Sadducees have opposed this belief and 
ridiculed it, the Pharisees assigned so much importance to it and 
endeavored to find some source for it in the Scripture, in order to 
prevent the names from adhering to the teachings of the Sad- 
ducees and thereby preventing the transplanting of Hellenism 
into the Hebrew faith, although in the very beginning of its de- 
velopment this belief was kept secret from the masses. 

The result of what has been stated is that the Sadducees 
as well as the Pharisees, have expounded the Scripture according 
to tradition and have believed in the immortality of the soul and 
retribution after death. And the animosity of those two sects 
grew from the desire of each of them to have the control over 
political affairs. Therefore, when the Pharisees in the end 
gained the overhand, the first thing for Simeon b. Shetah to do 
was to remove the Sadducees from the Sanhedrin, in which he 
was very successful. But after the quarrel was carried on for 
several centuries, and almost during the whole time of the ex- 
istence of the second Temple, and during that time more than once 
the danger was imminent that the teachings of the Pharisees 
should be swallowed up by Hellenism, and especially so during 
the time of Johanan the high priest and king, during whose reign 
the Pharisees were executed by the hundreds, and many emi- 
grated to Egypt and Babylonia, the animosity and hatred as- 
sumed such proportions that the name “‘Sadducee”’ alone was 
contemptible. Still more, when after the Pharisees had already 
been successful they were compelled to have public debates with 
them in religious matters, for their teachings have been deeply 
rooted among the masses and could not easily be rooted out. 

This animosity assumed still greater proportions when Chris- 
tianity began to develop; for the latter has confirmed many of 
the teachings of the Sadducees, although not directly still indi- 
rectly, and has opposed those of the Pharisees, although they 
did not differ to a considerable extent from the latter in religious 
matters and principles, the masses adhering to the teachings of 
the Pharisees, have greatly despised the Sadducees, and consid- 
ered them infidels and disbelievers in retribution and immortality 
of the soul, and in the appearing of a personal Messiah from the 
houses of David and Joseph, which belief has been circulating 
among the masses during the last days of existence of the second 
Temple, and they endeavored, with all their might, to obliterate 
their teachings. Those few Sadducees who lived after the de- 
struction of the second Temple gathered up all the courage they 
could and entered into public debates with R. Johanan b. Zakkai, 


154 APPENDIX B. 


R. Jose, etc., but seeing that their hope was forlorn, and that they 
would not be able to rise again, they gave up the battle pub- 
licly, although they did not renounce their beliefs, or abandon 
their hatred, and tried to continue the same against the teachings 
of the Pharisees secretly. At least, during the second century 
we hear nothing of them publicly. 

Now we will stop for a moment to see who the Karaite sect 
was. There is no doubt that there existed a sect by this name 
in the days of the Talmudists, for they are mentioned several 
times in the Talmud under the name “‘ Adherers to the Scripture,” 
(NPD IA), and in one place it is plainly stated ‘“‘the Ka- 
taites added’ (Pesachim, p. 117; our edition, p. 246, see foot 
note 3). Neither is there any doubt that they were not favored 
by the Talmudists, as we find in many places in the Talmud re- 
marks reflecting on them, as f.2.: ‘“‘They who occupy themselves 
with the study of Scripture are not to be blamed, but, on the 
other hand, not to be praised ’’ (Baba Metzia, 79), and in Hagiga, 
it states plainly; Rabb said: “If a man goes out from the study 
of the Mishna to read the verses of the Bible, this man can have 
no more peace.” And there is no doubt that many similar re- 
marks found in the Talmud have reference to this sect. But we 
can not, with exactness, fix the time when and to what extent 
this sect openly declared against the teachings of the Talmudists, 
However, we do not hesitate for one moment to state that during 
all that time this sect has brooded an intense hatred to every Is- 
taelite who has not followed them, although at times they were 
compelled to conceal their hatred. 

One penetrating glance into the history of the Samaritans and 
into that of the Karaites; one penetrating glance into the literature 
of the former and into that of the latter; the curses pronounced 
by both of those sects against the followers of the Rabbanism; 
the beliefs and principles common to the religion of both (although 
differing slightly ceremonially), will suffice to induce one to agree 
with us that the Karaites, whose sect was established in the days 
of Anan, and a few of whom are living in our own time, have not 
only borrowed from the Samaritans their teachings, but that the 
Karaites are the former Samaritans and that even up to date 
they have changed slightly only in their outward appearance and 
in name, but not intrinsically. 

From the whole sect we will pick out only Anan, who descended 
from the family of the Exilarch, who came from the house of 
David (and perhaps was his mother or grandmother of Samaritan 
descent), and who, from jealously having scorned and despised 

















APPENDIX B. I55 


the traditional teachings, had gathered the remainder of the Sa- 
maritans, who had long ago changed their name and tendency, had 
become their chief to fight their battles and to separate completely 
from the house of Israel, for he could afford doing so, being a de- 
scendant from a prominent family. But we do not in the least 
intimate that Anan founded a new sect with new principles. 
This, our present view, is not unfounded, but is based on his- 
torical facts, for we do not find anywhere in history any such 
intense, unchangeable, everlasting and unfounded hatred as that 
of the Samaritans and Karaites toward the house of Israel. 
Whenever we find in history that any ill-feelings or hatred 
existed between two nations it is easy to find the reason for such 
feelings or hatred; it was either the craving for subjugation of 
foreign countries, or the desire to reign supreme over others, or, 
in very ancient times also the desire to prove the supremacy of 
one nation’s idols over those of the other, and many other rea- 
sons, which provoked one nation to go to war with another and 
to take vengeance of one another. But we find no such reason 
for the hatred of the Samaritans toward the house of Israel, yet 
when the latter returned from Babylonia and intended to build 
the Temple, no plausible reason can be found for the endeavor- 
ing of the Samaritans to mislead the Israelites whenever they tried 
to establish the new moon. (See Rosh Hashana, Chap. II., our 
Hebrew edition, p. 25; English, p. 38.) Neither can there be as- 
signed a reason for the custom of the Samaritans to pronounce 
curses over Ezra the Scribe, at the time of the opening of the ark 
of scrolls every Sabbath, which prevails up to date. (See our “‘The 
Pentateuch, its Character,” etc., as well as for many other things 
which the reader may find in the Talmud and Apokrypha, and in 
Graetz’s History of the Jews, which, if quoted here would occupy 4 
full volume.) In a word, there can be found no substantial reason 
or ground for these things, except that they blindly hated the 
house of Israel. Neither do we find any reason for the slandering 
and reviling by the Karaites of the Rabbanism in general, and of 
Rabh Saadiah Gaon in particular, nor for all the false accusa- 
tions and malicious charges and denunciations against the Rab- 
banism contained in the extensive literature of the Karaites. 
History shows us that nations who hated each other to the 
extreme have in course of time laid the weapons aside and made 
up. History records numerous instances, that sects between whom 
differences existed, and which even reached such a degree that they 
restilted in actual fight, have in course of time become reconciled 
and associated with each other, and intermarried, and the former 


156 APPENDIX B. 


hatred and quarrels were wholly forgotten. We will not cite as 
an example the Beth Shammai and the Beth Hillel, who, although 
widely differing from each other in their opinions, still intermarried, 
as found in the Talmud; but even the Sadducees and the Phari- 
sees, did they there decline to eat and drink with each other, or inter- 
marry? We do not find that anywhere.* The Samaritans, how- 
ever, and Karaites are singular instances in this respect in history. 
Although most of them have already intermingled with other na- 
tions, not a single instance can be pointed out that they have 
intermarried with an Israelite or have partaken of his food or 
drink. 

The toleration of the Pharisees and of their teachings is well 
known. The disciples of the Beth Hillel have done all that lay 
in their power to bring them into the house of Israel: they cred- 
ited them in regard to purification; they permitted them to be 
counted in the number of three for the benediction over the meal 
(73), and in the number of ten for prayer in the prayer house 
(FWY Pst): and in fact, wanted to consider them as Is- 
raelites for all purposes, but their animosity and trickery increased 
to such an extent that they could no more be tolerated, and there- 
fore, the leaders of Israel were compelled to regard them in all 
respects as idolators, and prohibited their bread, wine, and oil. 
Exactly the same thing happened with the Karaites whom the 
Rabbanism endeavored, with‘all their might, to draw near them 
and debate with them, until they convinced themselves that their 
hatred toward Israel is so great that they said “YDS Dy 
pdiyd PrSn” (the rents will never be sewed together), ‘‘the Ka- 
raites will never make up with us,’’ and they are up to date regarded 
as idolators. 

We know well that we are too brief in this article and that we 
ought to adduce at length all the facts to prove that all that the 
Samaritans and Karaites have done unto Israel was not to derive 
any benefit therefrom, or with a view of subduing them, for they 





* An example may be given of the last century when a new sect (Chasidim) es- 
tablished themselves. The greatest authority, at least in Russia and Poland, Eliah 
Wilna, called the ‘‘ Wilner Gaon” in Conjunction with all the Rabbis, excommuni- 
cated the whole sect, prohibited their eatings and beverages and intermarriage with 
them. Moreover he allowed any one to denounce the new sect, and their rabbis were 
imprisoned by the government. But what was the end? Nothing at all. All the 
excommunications, prohibitions, prosecutions, etc., were abolished, without even 
the result of a meeting, and as soon as the quarrel was over, not one of either 
party hesitated to mingle with the opposite sect. All are called Israel, all are 
Israelites, and at the present time nobody gives any attention to all that happened 
then. 











APPENDIX B. 157 


well knew that this was an impossibility, but only out of blind 
hatred deeply rooted in them, which descends from generation to 
generation. We know this very well, but we can not enter here 
into such details, as it would exceed the limits of an article, and 
would comprise a whole book in itself. We, therefore, rely upon 
the intelligence and knowledge of the reader that he will know 
where to find those if needed. 

Even in our own times, when the Karaites number only a few 
thousands, which accounts for their enjoying equal rights with the 
natives, since Emperor Nicholas of Russia, they make no secret 
of their hatred toward Israel. When the anti-Jewish disorders 
broke out in Russia some few years ago, and many of our co- 
religionists were exiled from the Middle States of the Russian 
Empire, the latter have petitioned the Russian Government to 
be permitted to embrace Karaitism. The Minister of the In- 
terior has expressed his willingness to grant their petition if the 
Karaites will consent to receive them into their midst, and di- 
rected an inquiry to this effect to their Hacham in Odessa, but 
the latter answered that there is no desire on the part of the 
Karaites to receive the Jews as their co-religionists. 

These facts need hardly any comment; they speak for them- 
selves. In fact, during all the long period since the year 760, it has 
not as yet happened that even a few individual Karaites should 
intermarry with our co-religionists, or should in any way associate 
with us. (Even in business affairs they do it only with great 
reluctance and very seldom.) Is there any,stronger proof neces- 
sary of this race-hatred? No other race or nation, no matter how 
great their hatred may be, will ever decline to receive into their 
midst a Jew, if he only wishes to gain their faith, and will never 
refuse to associate with him; and the masses, as well as the in- 
telligent classes, have always been favorably inclined toward 
the Jews. But this hatred of the Karaites has no equal among 
other nations in any generation. 

As the Samaritans have forged and falsified the Pentateuch, 
as is now Well established, so also did the Karaites forge and falsify 
the Talmud. And we hereby reproach the writers of the history of 
the Karaites, who without much deliberations wrote; For Saadiah 
the Gaon, when king, unable to assign any good reason for a state- 
ment found in the Talmud (Jerushalmi), that the Beth Shammai 
have killed some of the Beth Hillel, and vice versa, has denied the 
existence of such a statement at all; and Sahl, the son of Matzliah, 
his opponent, in order to prove to the world the delinquency of 
R. Saadiah, has descended from Palestine to Babylonia with the 


158 APPENDIX B. 


Jerusalem Talmud in his hand! And they did not conceive that 
Sahl himself has forged the manuscript of the Talmud by writing in 
this statement, and he was not the first one to do so, but was prob- 
ably preceded by others, as we have remarked in the introduction 
to our edition of Rosh Hoshana. In fact, we are surprised at those 
who are handling the Karaite literature that they have not. per- 
ceived it. Why should more evidence be given to Sahl the forger, 
than to Rabh Saadiah, who states positively that such a state- 
tment did not exist in the Talmud? Why should we not belive R. 
Saadiah that in his manuscript such a statement was not in exist- 
ence? (To our regret this statement was added to, and remains 
in the Talmud through the fault of the printers.) Especially so 
that even now in our own days the Karaites continue to forge and 
falsify, as proved by many modern scholars at the head of which 
is Abraham Harkawy, by exposing the falsifications of Abraham 
Firkowitz, the Karaite Hacham, in all his writings. 

The result of all that stated is that from the similarity of action, 
in all details, of the Karaites and Samaritans we can logically 
atrive at the conclusion that the Karaites were doing nothing new, 
but only stepping in the shoes of their ancestors, the Samaritans, 
who they were, only under a different name, and being so they never 
descended from Israel. And all that Anan did was to gather the a 
scattered Samaritans and encourage them to continue their fight we 
against Israel, which has been hitherto conducted by them secretly, ; 
openly and publicly and with more vigor and animosity. 

And if we will examine with a critical eye the literature of the fa 
Karaites we will easily see that they are none others than the Sama- a 
ritans. And in vain has Dr. Holdheim held up as a striking proof. a 
the ‘laws of divorce,” saying that such were the opinions of the LA 
Sadducees, and that the Karaites who were none else but the Sad- o, 























ducees clung to their old laws. No divorce was granted under the a 
teaching of the Samaritans, unless on the ground of adultery. And a: 
as to this also the Talmud bears testimony in stating (as quoted’ 9 2 
above), ‘‘The Beth Shammai are as the Kuthaiz, z.c., the Beth oe 


Shammai who prohibited a divorce unless on the ground of wh: 
adultery, agree with the Samaritans who taught the same thing, a 
and so also are the laws of the Karaites (even in regard to this be 
_ has Dr, Holdheim blamed the teachings of the Pharisees without 
any foundation, for formerly even the Pharisees did not allow a - 
divorce unless on the above-stated grounds, and all the leniency a 
as to divorce which was afterwards decreed by the Beth Hillel, of 
whom R. Aqiba was one, was only introduced because the exigencies a 
of the time required it, for it was at the time the New Testament ey: 

















APPENDIX B., 159 


began to gain strength and become popular, which declared every 
one who married a divorced woman to be an adulterer; as proved 
by I. H. Weiss in his work, and all other laws of the Karaites”’). 
The strict observance of the Sabbath, etc., is nothing else but the 
laws of the Samaritans, and the slight difference in the ceremonies 
of these two sects is only because the former lived much later than 


‘the latter, and had to struggle with other sects who were their 


superiors, and to submit to them, and therefore many ceremonies 
were forgotten altogether. As to principles and dogmas, we have 
never heard that the Samaritans have ever rejected the belief in 
resurrection or in the world tocome. On the contrary, as the belief 
in resurrection has circulated among all nations, and as the Samari- 
tans have produced no great and learned men, and being widely 
separated from Israel, it is very natural that they did believe in 
resurrection as did their descendants the Karaites, 

Another proof can be adduced that the Karaites are the de- 
scendants of the Samaritans; namely, that the Karaites mourn 
much more over the destruction of the Temple (and some of their 
Hachams have even adapted the name ‘‘ Mourner” or ‘“‘ Mourners’’), 
than we do, because as the Samaritans they mourn over the loss 
of their temple on the Mount Gerisim which was destroyed by Janai, 
and continue to curse him up to date in their prayers. 

We could adduce numerous other proofs taken from both the 
extensive literature of the Karaites and the inextensive literature 
of the Samaritans, to show that we did not in the least exaggerate our 
opinion as to the origin of the Karaites, but this article has taken 
up much more space than we expected and we are unable to give 
them here to the reader. 

Before closing this article we find it our duty to answer the 
gentleman who put the question to us: ‘‘ What are the reformers 
of our times, if not Karaites?”’ 

A careful examination of the literature of the reformers in Eu- 
rope, as Holdheim, Geiger, Ritter, etc.; of the prayer books of the 
reformers in this country, and of the sermons of their preachers all 
over the world, we will at once recognize in them the early Sad- 
ducees, with all their particularities. They (generally, not consid- 
ering here and there an exception) believe in immortality of the 
soul, in retribution after death and in many Talmudical traditions, 
as can be shown by the fact that they observe the holidays as es- 
tablished by the Talmudists; but they do not believe in resurrec- 
tion, neither in the coming of a personal Messiah, and do not recog- 
nize the Talmud as final authority in all matters; and self-under- 
stood those rules and regulations established subsequent to the 


160 APPENDIX B. 


close of the Talmud but in its spirit, the same thing did the former 
Sadducees. 

But as our present reformers are descendants of the Pharisees, 
and the Sadducees being no more in existence, therefore they also 
have in many things adopted a new form, and recognize the teach- 
ings of the Pharisees (as for instance the observance of the sixth 
day of Sivan as Pentecost) as indisputable laws. But we can by 
no means accuse the reformers in not believing in tradition gen- 
erally, as we cannot well accuse of that the former Sadducees. 
(Even those reformers who have changed the Sabbath, for even 
this can be explained in accordance with the general rule of the 
Talmud which sanctifies the seventh day, but not the Sabbath itself, 
and for this reason the Talmud decreed that in case one forgets 
which day is the Sabbath, he shall count six days and observe the 
seventh as Sabbath, see our article in the Deborah, 1894.) Should 
the reader put the question to us whether the reformers are not 
to be charged with transplanting Christianity into Judaism, and 
whether there is no danger that in course of time Christianity will 
swallow up Judaism altogether, as the Unitarism of our own days, 
as such danger has already threatened Judaism during the early 
Sadducees, we will say that this question requires a deliberate an- 
swer, and cannot be answered by “‘yes”’ or ‘“‘no”’ offhand. 

We can only state that we have devoted much of our attention 
to this question, and with a penetrating eye have followed the work 
of the reformers of the School of Holdheim, Ritter and their com- 
panions, in Berlin, of the school of Isaac Wise in Cincinnati, and of 
the teaching of Emil G. Hirchin Chicago, and having collected con- 
siderable data of their past, and having bestowed much deliberation 
upon their future, we consider ourselves competent to give our 
opinion about this matter. In fact we have prepared a long article 
dealing specially with the following questions: (1) Does the He- 
brew religion require any reforms? (2) If it does, what are they 
and on what basis can we introduce them? (3) What are the re- 
reforms introduced by the conservative reformers, and what are 
those of the radical reformers? (4) What benefit resulted from 
these reforms in general and in particular? (5) The result of the 
reforms of Cincinnati and of those of Hirch, and (6) What is the 

meaning of the name ‘‘ Orthodox,” and to whom shall it be applied? 
This article we are willing to submit to the readers (after accom- 
plishing our task of the translation) if desired. 


END OF VOLUME I. 

















sie 


Does 














igeas 
HISTORY OF THE TALMUD 


From the Time of Its Formation, about 
200 B. C., up to the Present Time 


DIVIDED INTO TWO VOLUMES 


VOLUME I.—ITS DEVELOPMENT AND THE PERSECUTIONS SINCE ITS 
BIRTH UP TO DATE, INCLUDING ALL RELIGIOUS DISPUTES 
AND BRIEF BIOGRAPHIES OF THE SEPARATED SECTS 


VOLUME Il. — THE HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION TO THE 
NEW EDITION: ETHICS, METHOD, WITH ILLUSTRATIONS 
CRITICISM, ETC. 


BY 


MICHAEL L. RODKINSON 


Volume II. (XX.) 


NEW YORK 
NEW TALMUD PUBLISHING COMPANY 
1117 SIMPSON STREET 


= 
is SEM 





CopyvRIGHT, 1903, BY 


MICHAEL L. RODKINSON 





ONE ere oie ate! Te 









SEAS EO 


TORS 


Se Te 





CONTENTS OF VOLUME II. 





PART I. 


CHAPTER I. 


THE COMBINATION OF THE GEMARA, THE SOPHRIM, AND THE 
ESHCALATH, ALSO BRIEFLY NOTICED ABOUT MISHNA, To- 
SEPHTA, MECHILTA, SIPHRA AND SIPHRE . : ‘ ; 


CHAPTER II. 


THE Five GENERATIONS OF THE TANAIM, WITH THEIR CHAR- 
ACTERISTICS AND BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCHES 


CHAPTER III. 


THE AMORAIM OR EXPOUNDERS OF THE MISHNA. THE SIX 
GENERATIONS OF THE AMORAIM, THE PALESTINIAN AS WELL 
AS THE BABYLONIAN, AND ALSO THAT OF SuRA, PUa- 
BADITHA AND NAHARDEA, WITH THEIR CHARACTERISTICS 
AND BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCHES . ; ; ; 


CHAPTER IV. 


THE CLASSIFICATION OF HALAKHA AND HAGADA IN T4E CON- 
TENTS OF THE GEMARA, COMPILATION OF THE PALESTINIAN 
TALMUD AND THAT OF THE BABYLONIAN AND THE Two 
GEMARAS COMPARED WITH EACH OTHER ne ee 


CHAPTER V. 


APOCRYPHAL APPENDICES TO THE TALMUD AND COMMENTARIES. 
THE NECESSITY FOR COMMENTARIES EXCLUSIVELY ON 
THE MISHNA A : . A : x ; : 


CHAPTER VI. 


EpiToMEs, CODIFICATIONS, MANUSCRIPTS AND PRINTED EDI- 
TIONS OF THE TaLMuD. INTRODUCTORY. EPITOMES, 
CopEs, COLLECTIONS OF THE HAGADIC PORTIONS OF THE 
TALMUD, MANUSCRIPTS, AND THE BOTH TALMUDSIN PRINT. 


PAGE 


22 


38 


48 


iv CONTENTS. 
CHAPTER VII. 


TRANSLATIONS OF THE TALMUD, THE MISHNAYOTH IN MANY 
MoDERN LANGUAGES, THE GEMARA IN ENGLISH, AND ALSO 
THE TRANSLATION OF THE PALESTINIAN TALMUD ‘ ; 


CHAPTER VIII. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY OF MODERN WORKS AND MONOGRAPHS ON TAL- 
MUDIC SUBJECTS. HAGADA, ARCHZOLOGICAL, BIOGRAPH- 
ICAL, CHRONOLOGY AND CALENDAR, Customs, DIALECTICS, 
EDUCATION, ETHICS, EXEGESIS, GEOGRAPHY AND History, 
Law IN GENERAL, JUDICIAL CourRTs, EVIDENCE IN Law, 
CRIMINAL Law, Civit Law, INHERITANCE AND TESTA- 
MENT, PoLicE Law, LAw oF MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE, 
Laws CONCERNING SLAVERY, LINGUISTICS, MATHEMATICS, 
MEDICINE, SURGERY, NATURAL HisToRY AND SCIENCES, 
PARSEEISM OF THE TALMUD, POETRY, PROVERBS, Psy- 
CHOLOGY, SUPERSTITION, AND LECTURES ON THE TALMUD. 


CHAPTER IX. 


Wuy SHOULD CHRISTIANS FEEL INTERESTED IN THE TALMUD? 
COLLECTIONS FROM GENTILES AND MODERN HEBREW 
SCHOLARS. REASONS WHy THE TALMUD SHOULD BE 
STUDIED... EES ail o sm it ; ; 


CHAPTER X. 


OPINIONS ON THE VALUE OF THE TALMUD BY GENTILES AND 


MODERN JEWISH SCHOLARS : : : : : ; 


PART IL 
CHAPTER I. 


Eruics. INTRODUCTION. THE PARALLELS BETWEEN THE TAL- 
MUDIC AND THE EVANGELUM REGARDING HUMAN LOVE . 


4 


CHAPTER II. 


Man As MorAt BEING, FREE-WILL, Gop’s WILL, THE AC- 
COUNTABLE TO GOD, ETC., LABOR, CARDINAL DUTIES IN 
RELATION TO FELLOW-MEN, JUSTICE, TRUTH AND TRUTH- 
FULNESS, PEACEFULNESS, CHARITY, DuTIES CONCERNING 
SPECIAL RELATIONS, THE CONJUGAL RELATIONS, PARENTS 
AND CHILDREN, COUNTRY AND COMMUNITY, AND THE 
GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS : : i uae : 


PAGE 


58 


7O 


75 


84 


























CONTENTS. Vv 
PART III. 
PAGE 
Our METHOD OF THE TRANSLATION OF THE NEw EDITION 
OF THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD . : F : ; 94 
PART. iN: 
CRITICISM. SOME REMARKS ABOUT CRITICISM IN GENERAL 
AND TO OuR NEw EDITION ESPECIALLY . 2 . i TOS 
APPENDIX TO CHAPTER IJ. THE SUGGESTION THAT JESUS is 
MENTIONED IN THE TALMUD AS AN AUTHOR OF A LAW 
WHICH WAS PRACTISED UNTIL IT was CHANGED BY 
AKIBA . : ; ; : . ‘ : ; s EOS 
i 
B PART V. 
: THE ARRANGEMENT AND THE NAMES OF THE TRACTS OF THE 
if SECTIONS OF BOTH TALMUDS, WITH THE SYNOPSIS OF THE 
I Two SECTIONS, MOED AND NEZIKIN . : . (134 pages) 
i 
¥ 
th PART VI. 
i INDORSEMENTS AND SOME PRESS COMMENTS : . (14 pages) 
G s 
is 
E3 
Pe 




















PART I. 


HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION TO THE NEW 
EDITION OF THE TALMUD. 


CHAPTER I. 


THE COMBINATION OF THE GEMARA, THE SOPHRIM, AND THE 
ESHCALATH. 


Voluminous books were written about the text of the 
Mishna and Talmud in almost every language, besides valuable 
articles by very scholarly men in different books and periodicals. 
In the bibliography the reader will find all modern works ar- 
ranged with various references to subjects. We shall only point 
out the special books on this, subject, viz., ‘‘ Darkhe Hamish- 
nah,” (The Ways of the Mishna), by Zachariah Frankel, ‘‘ The 
Introduction to the Mishna,”’ by Jacob Brill, 1876, ‘‘ The Tra- 
dition of the Oral Law,” by H. Weiss, and ‘‘ Toldat Hamish- 
nah,” (History of the Mishna), by Haim Oppenheim, all in 
Hebrew; “‘ Jahrbiicher,” by Dr. N. Brill, Frankfort, A. M., 
“Real Encyclopedie,” by J. Hamburger, ‘‘Die Lehrer der 
Mishna,” by M. Braunschweiger, and Graetz’s ‘‘ History of the 
Jews,” allin German. Finally three special introductions were 
written (1) ‘‘ Einleitung in den Talmud,” Leipzig, 1894, second 
edition, by Dr. Herman Strack, in German; (2) ‘‘ Introduction 
to the Talmud,’”’ 1891 and 1894, second edition, by Dr. M. 
Mielziner, in English, and (3) ‘‘Introduction to the Mishna,” 
in the Russian language, by N. Perferkowitz.* In these 
introductions are mentioned also the different translations of 
the Mishnayoth and Talmud in all the languages up to the 
time these works were written. Finally, Dr. Erick Bischoff 
wrote a special book named “‘Kritische Geschichte der Tal- 
mud—Uberzetzungen aller Zeiten und Zungen,” Frankfort, 





* This work, which is the first of its kind in the Russian language, is also 
worthy to be considered. 


2 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


a. M., 1899. All the above mentioned introductions explain 
the terms of the text of the Mishna and Talmud, their abbre- 
viations and the method of both Talmuds, to enable those who 
desire to study the text in the original. We, however, who 
wish to give an introduction to our English translation of the 
Talmud, deem it not necessary to trouble the English reader 
with the explanations of the text, and shall give only what 
pertains to our new edition. 

We have already mentioned in our brief introduction to 
Sabbath that the Talmud, in general, is composed of Mishna 
and Gemara. In this introduction, however, we shall give 
all the particulars pointed out by Strack and Mielziner which 
we deem of interest to the English reader. As a text we took 
Mielziner’s ‘‘ Introduction,’’ which is an excellent work, omit- 
ting what seems to us not necessary for the reader, supplying 
it with necessary remarks and additions. 


(1.) 

The Talmud is a combination of Mishna and Gemara, 
the latter is a collection of Mishnayoth, Tosephtas, Mechilta, 
Siphra, Siphre and Borazthas, all of these, interpreted and 
discussed by the Amoraim, Saboraim, and also Gaonim at a 
later period. ‘‘The Mishna is the authorized codification of 
the oral or unwritten law, which on the basis of the written 
law contained in Pentateuch, developed during the second 
Temple, and down to the end of the second century of the 
common era.’’ The author of which was R. Jehuda, the prince 
named ‘‘Rabbi”’ (flourishing toward the end of the second 
century), taking the unfinished work of R. Akiba and R. Meir 
as basis.* 

(2.) 


“The word Tosephta means Addition, Supplement, and, 
as indicated by this name, the work is intended to complete 
deficiencies of the Mishna.t It is divided into Masechtoth, 
generally corresponding to those of the Mishna, but differing 





* The meaning of the word Mishna is already explained by us in the first volume 
of this. work, as well as its division into sections. 

In Mielziner’s ‘‘ Introduction,” pp. 18-21, the reader will find all the details about 
Mechilta Siphra and Siphre and Boraitha, which we deem it not necessary to repeat 
as they are not of importance to the reader. 

+ See also our brief general introduction, vol. i., p. xvii. 











BE re ee ee 


ae: 
a 


* 





spec ee 


HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. 3 


from them in the arrangement of their subject, and in the 
division of their Perakim. The latter are not subdivided into 
paragraphs. There are in all sixty Masechtoth and 452 Pera- 
kim. The Tosephta contains mainly the remnants of the 
earlier compilations of the Halacha made by R. Akiba, R. 
Meir, R. Nehemia, and others not adopted in the Mishna, and, 
besides additions made after R. Jehuda Hanasi’s death by 
his disciples, R. Chiya, R. Oshaya, Bar Kappara and others. 
But we find in that work also many sayings and decisions 
of later Amoraim of. the Babylonian and Palestinian schools. 
In its present shape it belongs to the fifth or sixth cen- 
tury.” * 
(3-) 

‘The Mechilta, the Siphra and the Siphre have this in com- 
mon, that they treat of the oral law not according to well ar- 
ranged subjects, as is the case with the Mishna and the To- 
sephta, but rather in the form of a running commentary and 
discussion on the biblical passages from which the law is de- 
duced or on which it is based. 

“The Siphra, also called Torath Cohanin, is a collection of 
traditional interpretations of the whole book of Leviticus, 
introduced by an exposition of R. Ishmael’s thirteen her- 
meneutic rules.” 

(4.) 

“The Siphre, or, as its fuller title reads, the books of the 
school of Rab, comprises the traditional interpretations of 
the book of Numbers, beginning with Chapter V., and of the 
whole book of Deuteronomy. The author of the Siphre on 
Numbers was evidently not the same as the author of that on 
the last book of the Pentateuch. The style of the former, 
being more argumentative and discursive, often resembles 





* The Tosephta is usually printed as an appendix to Alphasi’s compendium of 
the Talmud. In the Vienna edition of the Babylonian Talmud (1860-72) the 
Masechtoth of the Tosephta are appended to the corresponding Masechtoth of the 
Talmud. A separate revised edition of the whole Tosephta was published by Dr. 
Zuckermandel (Pasewalk and Treves, 1877-82). Dr. Adolph Schwartz is publishing 
a new edition of the Tosephta, with notes and text corrections, of which the first 
volume is out, Wilna, 1891. Critical researches on the Tosephta are found in Frankel’s 
‘*Darke Hamishna,” pp. 304-307, and in I. H. Weiss’s ‘‘ Dor Dor,” etc., II., pp. 
217-225 ; also in I. H. Duenner’s ‘‘ Wesen und Ursprung der Tosephta,” Amster- 
dam, 1874. 


4 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


that of the Siphra, while Siphre on Deuteronomy is generally 
brief, bearing more resemblance to the Mechilta.”” The author 
of it is said to be R. Simeon b. Johai. 

Besides the Tosephta, the Mechilta, the Siphra and the 
Siphre just described, other collections of a similar character 
existed during the Talmudical period. In the course of time 
they perished, but many hundred fragmentary passages thereof 
are quoted in all parts of the Palestinian and Babylonian 
Gemara. Such a passage quoted from those lost collections 
as well as from the Tosephta, Mechilta, Siphra and Siphre was 
termed Boraitha, or Mathnitha Boraitha, meaning extraneous 


Mishna. This term was used in order to distinguish those pas- — 


sages from passages in our Mishna, that is, the authorized 
Mishna of R. Jehuda Hanasi, compared with which they had 
but a subordinate value. The Baraithoth are often found to 
be conflicting with each other or with the authorized Mishna, 
and in this case the Gemara usually displays great ingenuity 
and subtility in the attempt to reconcile them. In some in- 
stances, however, one or the other Boraitha is declared to be 
spurious.* 

The authorities mentioned in the Mishna and Boraitha + 
as having transmitted and developed the oral law belong to 
three different periods; namely: (1) The period of Sopherim 
(Scribes); (2) The period of Zugoth; (3) The period of 
Tanaim. 

(a) Sopherim or Scribes were the learned men who suc- 
- ceeded Ezra during a period of about two hundred years. To 
them many institutions and extensions of the Mosaic law are 
ascribed. The Sopherim are also called collectively ‘‘ the men 
of the Great Assembly (Synod).’’ According to tradition, 
this synod consisted of 120 members, but we have no record 
of their names with the exception of Ezra, its founder, and of 
Simon the Upright (Ffust), (the high priest Simon I., between 
310-292, or his grandson Simon II., between 220-202 B.c.), 
who is said to have been one of the last members of the Great 
Assembly. 





* Some critical researches on the Boraitha are found in Frankel’s ‘‘ Darke Ha- 
mishna,” pp. 311-313, and in I. H. Weiss’s ‘* Dor Dor,” II., pp. 239-244. 

+ We do not find the Zugoth to be mentioned in the Boraitha. However, wedo 
not cancel it as it is so written by Mielziner. 





PE iene a 




















HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. 5 


Antigonos of Socho, a disciple of Simon the Just, was the 
connecting link between this and the following period. 

(b) The word Eshcalath (Zugoth), meaning the pairs 
(duumviri), is the appellation of the leading teachers from 
Jose ben Joezer till Hillel, of whom always two, at the same 
time, stood at the head of the Sanhedrin, one as president 
(Nasi), and the other as vice-president (Ab beth din). 

The succession of these Zugoth was: 

(1) Fose ben Foezer and Fose ben Fochanan, flourishing 
at the time of the Maccabean wars of independence. 

(2) Foshua b. Perachia and Nitat of Arbela, flourishing 
at the time of John Hyrcan. 

(3) Fuda b. Tabat and Simon b. Shetach, flourishing at 
the time of Alexander Janai and Queen Salome. 

(4) Shematah and Abtalion, flourishing at the time of 
Hyrcan II. 

(5) Hillel and Shamaz, flourishing at the time of King 
Herod. 

(c) With the disciples of Hillel and Shamai begins the 
period of Tanaim, which lasted about 210 years (from 10 to 
220 Ch. Era). With the beginning of this period the title 
Rabbi (teacher) for the ordained teachers, and the title 
Rabban (our teacher) for the president of the Sanhedrin came 
in use. 

In the Mishna, the term Tana, meaning a teacher of the 
oral law, does not yet occur. Those teachers are there sig- 
nified by generally adding the title of Rabbi to their names, 
or by calling them collectively the Sages, while the authorities 
of the preceding period are occasionally designated ‘‘ the former 
elders.’’ It is first in the Gemara that the term Tana is applied 
to a teacher mentioned in the Mishna and Boraitha, in con- 
tradistinction to the Amoraim, expounders of the Mishna, as 
the teachers after R. Jehuda Hanasi are called. (In Babylonian 
Talmud: in Palestinian, however, the Amoraim are also called 
Rabbis.) 

The period of the Tanaim is generally divided into five or 
six minor sections or generations. The purpose of this division 
is to show which teachers developed their principal activity con- 
temporaneously, though the actual lifetime of some of them 
extended to more than one generation. 


6 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


The following chronological tables contain the names only 
of the more prominent * teachers of each generation. Every 
table is followed by short biographical sketches of the teachers 
mentioned therein.t — 


CHAPTER II. 
THE GENERATIONS OF THE TANAIM. 
First GENERATION. 


The principal Tanaim of the first generation, which lasted 
about seventy years, from 10 to 80, Ch. Era,ft are: (1) The 
School of Shamai and the School of Hillel; (2) Akabia ben 
Mahalalel; (3) Rabban Gamaliel the Elder; (4) Rabbi Chanina, 
Chief of the Priests; (5) R. Simon ben Gamaliel; (6) R. 
Jochanan ben Zakkai. (Strack adds to this first generation 
[10—go] the Judges), (7) Admon, and (8) Hannan; (9) Nachum 
the Madaith; (10) Eliezer b. Jacob I; (11) Haninah b. Dosa; 
(12) Nechunyah b. Hakanah; and (13) Zadock. 

Mielziner counts Adman, Hannan and Nachum of Ma- 
daith at the end of this paragraph, not numbering them among 
the first generation, so also he did with some others in the 
succeeding generations. 





* We do not understand very well what the learned Doctor Mielziner means by 
the word prominent, as it seems that the Tanaim whom he omitted were not less 
prominent than those whom he mentioned. On the contrary, some of them were 
even more prominent. We are sorry that our work was delayed until after the depar- 
ture of the learned doctor, who was our friend and whose loss we greatly lament, so 
that we cannot ask him the reason as we always meant to do. (See our remarks 
further on.) ‘ 

+ Fuller characteristics of the lives and teachings of the principal Tanaim are 
given in the following works : 

Graetz, ‘‘ History of the Jews,” Vol. IV. 

Z. Frankel, ‘‘ Darke Hamishna.” 

I. H. Weiss, ‘‘ Zur Geschichte der juedischen Tradition,” Vols. I. and II. 

Jacob Bruell, ‘‘ Mebo Hamishna,” Vol. I. : 

J. Hamburger, ‘‘ Real Encyclopaedie,” Vol. II. ‘* Die Talmudischen Artikel.” 

M. Braunschweiger, ‘‘ Die Lehrer der Mishnah.” 

H. Strack, ‘‘ Einleitung in den Talmud.” 

N. Perferkowitz, Talmud, Part I. 

¢ This comparatively great length of the first generation is easily explained by 
the circumstance that it refers to the duration of the prevailing Schools of Shamai 
and Hillel, and not, as in the subsequent generations, to that of the activity of a 
single leading teacher. 





oe 

















HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. 7 


Characteristics and Biographical Sketches. 


1. The School of Shamat and the School of Hillel were 
founded by the disciples of the great teachers whose names 
they bear. Following the principles of their masters,* they 
differed widely in their opinions on many legal questions; the 
School of Shamai, in general, taking a rigorous, and the School 
of Hillel a more lenient view of the question. In their frequent 
controversies the School of Shamai, having been founded al- 
ready during the lifetime of Hillel, is always mentioned first. 
Of individual teachers belonging to either of these two schools 
only a very few are occasionally mentioned by name. Both 
schools existed during the whole period of the first generation, 
and the antagonism of their followers extended even to the 
middle of the subsequent generation. 

2. Akabia ben Mahalalel. Of this teacher who flourished 
shortly after Hillel only a few opinions and traditions are re- 
corded. According to what is related of him in Mishna 
Eduyoth, V., 6, 7, he was a noble character with unyielding 
principles. 

3. Rabban Gamaliel the Elder. He was a son of R. Simon, 
and grandson of Hillel, whom he succeeded in the office of 
Nasi. Many important ordinances (AIIDM) of the Rabbin- 
ical law are ascribed to him. He died eighteen years before 
the destruction of Jerusalem. The epithet ‘the Elder” gen- 
erally added to his name, is to distinguish him from his grand- 
son Gamaliel of Jabne, who flourished in the following gener- 
ation: 

4. Rabbit Chanina, Chief of the Priests, or the proxy of the 
high-priest. He, as well as ‘‘the court of Priests,’’ is inciden- 
tally mentioned in the Mishna in connection with laws con- 
cerning the sacrifices and the Temple service. 

5. R. Simon ben Gamaliel. He was the son and successor 
of Rabban Gamaliel the Elder, and was executed by the Ro- 
mans in the time of the destruction of Jerusalem. Belonging 
to the School of Hillel, his individual opinions in questions of 
law are but rarely recorded in the Mishna. He must not be 





* Shamai and Hillel themselves differ in three questions only. (See Eduyoth, 
p- 5.) Their schools, however, differ in 316 Halakhas. 


8 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


confounded with his grandson who had the same name and 
belonged to the fourth generation of Tanaim. 

6. R. fochanan b. Zakkai. This distinguished teacher was 
one of the youngest disciples of Hillel, occupied a high position 
already before the destruction of Jerusalem, and afterwards 
became the founder and head of the celebrated academy of 
Jabne (Jamnia). | 


SECOND GENERATION. 


This generation lasted about forty years, from 80 to 120. 
The principal Tanaim belonging to it are: 

(1) Rabban Gamaliel IT., (of Jabne); (2) Rabbi Zadok; 
(3) R. Dosa (b. Harchinas); (4) R. Eliezer b. Jacob; * (5) R. 
Eliezer (b. Hyrkanos); (6) R. Joshua (b. Chanania); (7) R. 
Elazar b. Azaria; (8) Elasar b. Arach;f (9) R. Juda b. 
Bathyra. (According to Strack), (10) Papias; (11) Alazar b. 
Zadock; (12) Samuel the Little; (13) Nachum of Gimzu; (14) 
Ben Paturi; (15) Jose the Priest; (16) Elazar of Modium. 

We refrain from giving the sketches of those who were 
added by Strack and others, as they would take up too much 
space. The reader who is interested in them can easily find 
them in the reference books pointed out by Strack, who gives 
to each of them the sources in the German language from 
which he draws. 


Characteristics and Biographical Sketches. © 


1. Rabban Gamaliel IT. He was a grandson of Gamaliel 
the Elder; after the death of R. Johanan b. Zakkai he became 
president of the academy of Jabne, and like his ancestors, he 
bore the title Nasi (Prince); with the Romans, Patriarch. In 
order to distinguish him from his grandfather, he received the 
surname Gamaliel of fabne, or the Second. 

2. R. Zadok. Of him it is related that he, in anticipation 
of the destruction of the Temple, fasted for forty successive 





* Strack counts him and Zadok among the first generation. 

+ We have added him as his omission by Mielziner can be attributed only to 
forgetfulness as his preceeding sages were also disciples of R. Johanan b, Zakkai, 
and for the same reason we have added Papus, who was a contemporary of R. Aqiba 
and of whom the Talmud speaks highly. 























HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. 9 


years. He then removed to Jabne where he as well as his son, 
R. Eliezar b. Zadok, belonged to the distinguished teachers. 

3. R. Dosab. Harchinas belonged to the school of Hillel, and 
removed with R. Jochanan b. Zakkai from Jerusalem to Jabne. 
where he reached a very old age. Hestood in such high esteem 
that his most distinguished colleagues appealed to his opinion 
in doubtful cases. 

4. R. Eliezer b. Facob was head of a school, and in possession 
of traditions concerning the structure and interior arrange- 
ments of the Temple. He is also mentioned with commenda- 
tion as to his method of instruction, which was “concise 
and clear.’ There was also another Tana by a similar name 
who flourished in the fourth generation. 

5. R. Eliezer b. Hyrkanos, in the Mishna called simply R. 
Eliezer, was one of the most distinguished disciples of R. 
Jochanan b. Zakkai, who characterized him as “the lime- 
cemented cistern that does not lose a drop.” He was a faith- 
ful conservator of handed-down decisions and opposed to their 
slightest modification and to any new deductions to be made 
therefrom. His school was in Lydda, in South Judea. Though 
formerly a disciple of the Hillelites, he inclined to the views of 
the Shamaites and consequently came in conflict with his col- 
leagues. Being persistent in his opinion, and conforming to 
it even in practice, he was excommunicated by his own brother- 
in-law, the patriarch Gamaliel IT. 

6. R. Foshua b. Chanania, in general called simply R. 
Joshua, was likewise one of the favored disciples of R. Jochanan 
b. Zakkai. Shortly before the destruction of the Temple he 
left Jerusalem with his teacher, after whose dedth he founded 
a separate school in Bektin. As member of the Sanhedrin in 
Jabne, he participated conspicuously in its deliberations and 
debates. His discussions were mostly with R. Eliezer, to whose 
unyielding conservatism he formed a striking contrast, as he 
represented the more rational and conciliatory element of that 
generation, and combined with great learning the amiable 
virtues of gentleness, modesty and placability which charac- 
terized the Hillelites. As he, on several occasions, was humil- 
iated by the Nasi Gamaliel II., with whom he differed on some 
questions, the members of the Sanhedrin resented this insult 
of their esteemed colleague by deposing the offender from his 


10 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


dignity and electing another president. It was only through 
the interference of the appeased R. Joshua that R. Gamaliel, 
who apologized for his conduct, was again restored to his office. 

7. R. Elazar b. Azarta descended from a noble family whose 
pedigree was traced up to Ezra the Scribe. Already while a 
young man, he enjoyed such a reputation for his great learning 
that he was made president of the academy at Jabne in place 
of the deposed R. Gamaliel. When the latter was reinstated, 
R. Elazar was appointed as vice-president. His controversies 
were mostly with R. Joshua, R. Tarphon, R. Ishmael and R. 
Akiba. On account of the noble virtues which he combined 
with his great learning he was compared to “‘a vessel filled with 
aromatic spices,’ and R. Joshua said of him: “a generation 
having a man like R. Elazar b. Azaria, is not orphaned.”’ 

8. Elazar b. Arach, of whom it is said (Aboth, p. 61), “ If 
all the wise of Israel were in a scale of the balance and 
Eliezer b. Hyrkanos with them, and Elazar b. Arach in the 
other scale, he would outweigh them all.” 

9. R. Fuda b. Bathyra had a school in Nistbis (in Assyria), 
already at the time when the Temple of Jerusalem was still in- 
existence. He was probably a descendant of the family Bene 
Bathyra, who were leaders of the Sanhedrin under King Herod, 
and who resigned that office in favor of Hillel. Several other 
Tanaim had the same family name, as R. Joshua b. Bathyra, 
R. Simon b. Bathyra and one called simply Ben Bathyra. 


TuirD GENERATION. 


Several Teachers of the third generation, which lasted from 
the year 120 till about 139 (130-160, Strack), flourished already 
in the preceding one. The principal teachers are: 

(1) R. Tarphon; (2) R. Ishmael; (3) R. Aqiba; (4) R. 
Jochanan b. Nuri; (5) R. Jose the Galilean; (6) R. Simon b. 
Nanos; (7) R. Juda b. Baba; (8) R. Jochanan b. Broka. 
Strack counts all the above-mentioned in the second genera- 
tion, with the addition of, (9) Papus b. Jehuda; (10) Elazar b. 
Chasma; (11) Jose of Damascus; (12) Hananya b. Trodyan; 
(13) Jos b. Kisma; (14) Elazar b. Parta; (15) Simeon b. Azai; 
(16) Simeon b. Zoma; (17) Elisha b. Abuyah; (18) Chaninah 
b. Gamaliel; (19) Chaninah b. Antigonos; (20) Elazar of Bartu- 























HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. 11 


tha; (21) Simeon of Taimon; (22) Chananiah, the son of 
Jechosua’s brother; (23) Jehuda b. Buthyra; (24) Matyah b. 
Cheris ;* (25) Chittkah; (26) Simeon the Shakmone; (27) 
Chananiah b. Chakniel. 


Characteristics and Biographical Sketches. 


1. R. Tarphon, or Tryphon, of Lydda. He is said to have 
been inclined to the views of the School of Shamai. On ac- 
count of his great learning he was called ‘‘ the teacher of Israel’’ ; 
besides, he was praised for his great charitable works. His 
legal discussions were mostly with his colleague R. Akiba. 

2. R. Ishmael (b. Elisha) was probably a grandson of the 
high-priest Ishmael b. Elisha who was condemned to death 
by Titus, together with the patriarch Simon b. Gamaliel I. 
When still a boy, he was made a captive and brought to Rome, 
where R. Joshua who happened to come there on a mission, 
redeemed him at a high ransom and brought him back to Pales- 
tine. R. Nechunia b. Hakana is mentioned as one of his prin- 
cipal teachers. When grown to manhood, he became a mem- 
ber of the Sanhedrin and was highly revered by his colleagues. 
He is named among those who emigrated with the Sanhedrin 
from Fabne to Usha. His residence was in South Judea in a 
place called Kephar Aziz. His academical controversies were 
mostly with R. Akiba, to whose artificial methods of interpret- 
ing the law he was strongly opposed, on the principle that 
the Torah, being composed in the usual language of man, must 
be interpreted in a plain and rational way. As guiding rules 
of interpretation he accepted only the seven logical rules which 
had been laid down by Hillel, which he, however, by some 
modifications and subdivisions, enlarged to thirteen. A 
separate school which he founded was continued after his 
death by his disciples and was known by the name of “ Be R. 
Ishmael.’”’ Of the book Mechilta which is ascribed to R. 
Ishmael. 

3. R. Agqiba (b. Joseph) was the most prominent among 
the Tanaim. He is said to have descended from a proselyte 
family, and to have been altogether illiterate up to the age of 
his manhood. Filled with the desire to acquire the knowledge 





* 22, 23 and 24 were out of Palestine. 


12 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


of the law, he entered a school and attended the lectures of the - 
distinguished teachers of that time, especially of R. Eliezer b. 
Hyrkanos, R. Joshua b. Chanania, and of Nachum of Gimzu. 
Subsequently he founded a school in B’ne Brak, near Jabne, 
and became a member of the Sanhedrin in the last-mentioned 
city. Through his keen intellect, his vast learning and his 
energetic activity he wielded a great influence in developing 
and diffusing the traditional law. He arranged the accumu- 
lated material of that law in a proper system and methodical 
order, and enriched its substance with many valuable deduc- 
tions of his own. His methodical arrangement and division 
of that material was completed by his disciple R. Meir, and 
later on became the groundwork of the Mishna compiled by 
R. Jehuda Hanasi. Besides, he introduced a new method of 
interpreting the Scriptures, which enabled him to find a biblical 
basis for almost every provision of the oral law. This ingen- 
ious method was admired by his contemporaries, and notwith- 
standing the opposition of some of his colleagues, generally 
adopted in addition to the thirteen hermeneutic rules of R. 
Ishmael. R. Akiba’s legal opinions are very frequently re- 
corded in all parts of the Mishna and in the kindred works. 
His academical discussions are mostly with his former teachers, 
R. Eliezer, R. Joshua, and with his colleagues, R. Tarphon, 
R. Jochanan b. Nuri, R. Jose the Galilean and others. 
R. Akiba died a martyr to religion and patriotism. Having 
been a stout supporter of the cause of Bar Cochba, he was 
cruelly executed by the Romans for publicly teaching the Law, 
contrary to the edict of the emperor Hadrian. (See Aboth, 
p. 28.) 
4. R. Fochanan b. Nuri was a colleague of R. Akiba, with 
whom he frequently differed on questions of the law. In his 
youth he seems to have been a disciple of R. Gamaliel II., for 
whose memory he always retained a warm veneration. He 
presided over a college in Beth Shearim, a place near Sepphoris 
in Galilee. 

--s. R. Fose the Galilean was a very distinguished teacher. 
Of his youth and education nothing is known. At his first 
appearance in the Sanhedrin of Jabne, he participated in a 
debate with R. Tarphon and with R. Akiba, and displayed 
such great learning and sagacity that he attracted general 

















—— 
a aaa ee 


HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. 13 


attention. From this debate his reputation as a teacher was 
established. He was an authority especially in the laws con- 
cerning the sacrifices and the Temple service. His discussions 
were mostly with R. Akiba, R. Tarphon, and R. Elazar b. 


. Azariah. Of his domestic life it is related that he had the bad 


fortune of having an ill-tempered wife, who treated him so 
meanly that he was compelled to divorce her, but learning that 
she in her second marriage lived in great misery, he generously 
provided her and her husband with all the necessaries of 
life. One of his sons, R. Eleazar b. R. Jose the Galilean, be- 
came a distinguished teacher in the following generation and 
established the thirty-two hermeneutic rules of the Hagada. 
6. R. Simon b. Nanos, also called simply Ben Nanos, was a 


- great authority especially in the civil law, so that R. Ishmael 


recommended to all law students to attend the lectures of this 
profound teacher. His legal controversies were mostly with 
R. Ishmael and R. Akiba. 

7. R. Fudah b. Baba, who on account of his piety was called 
the Chasid, is noteworthy not only as a distinguished teacher, 
but also as a martyr to Judaism. Contrary to the Hadrianic 
edict which, under extreme penalty, prohibited the ordination 
of teachers, he ordained seven * disciples of R. Akiba as Rabbis, 
and for this act was stabbed to death by the Roman soldiers. 

8. R. Fochanan b. Broka was an authority especially in the 
civillaw. Also his son R. Ishmael was a distinguished teacher 
who flourished in the following generation. 


FourtTH GENERATION. 


This generation extended from the death of R. Akiba to 
the death of the patriarch R. Simon b. Gamaliel II., from the 
year 139 to about 165. Almost all leading teachers of this 
generation belong to the latter disciples of R. Akiba. 

(1) R. Meir; (2) R. Jehuda (ben Ilai); (3) R. Jose (ben 
Chalafta); (4) R. Simon (b. Jochai); (5) R. Elazar (b. 
Shamua); (6) R. Jochanan the Sandelar; (7) R. Elazar b. 
Jacob; (8) R. Nehemia; (9) R. Joshua b. Korcha; (10) R. 
Simon b. Gamaliel. Strack counts all of them in the third 
generation, and adds, (11) Elazar b. Jose the Galilean; (12) 





* We are aware only of six mentioned in vol. i., p. 11. 


14 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


Ishmael b. Jochanan b. Beroka; (13) Abba Schaul; (14) 
Chananiah b. Akiba; (15) Chananiah b. Akashya; (16) Jose 
b. Akabyah; (17) Issi b. Jehuda; (18) Nehuraye; (19) Abba 
Jos b. Dusthai. 


Characteristics and Biographical Sketches. 


1. R. Meir, the most prominent among the numerous 
disciples of R. Akiba, was a native of Asia Minor and gained 
a subsistence as a skilful copyist of sacred Scripture. At 
first, he entered the academy of R. Akiba, but finding himself — 
not sufficiently prepared to grasp the lectures of this great 
teacher, he attended, for some time, the school of R. Ishmael, 
where he acquired an extensive knowledge of the law. Re- 
turning then to R. Akiba and becoming his constant and 
favored disciple, he developed great dialectical powers. R. 
Akiba soon recognized his worth and preferred him to other 
disciples by ordaining him at an early date. This ordination 
was later renewed by R. Judah b. Baba. On account of the 
Hadrianic persecutions, R. Meir had to flee from Judea, but 
after the repeal of those edicts, he returned and joined his col- 
leagues in reéstablishing the Sanhedrin in the city of Usha, 
in Galilee. His academy was in Emmaus, near Tiberias, and 
for a time also in Ardiscus, near Damascus, where a large circle 
of disciples gathered around him. Under the patriarch R. 
Simon b. Gamaliel II., he occupied the dignity of a Chacham 
(advising Sage), in which office he was charged with the duty 
of preparing the subjects to be discussed in the Sanhedrin. A 
conflict which arose between him and the patriarch seems to 
have induced him to leave Palestine and return to his native 
country, Asia Minor, where he died. R. Meir’s legal opinions 
are mentioned almost in every Masechta of the Mishna and 
Boraitha. His greatest merit was that he continued the labors 
of R. Akiba in arranging the rich material of the oral law ac- 
cording to subjects, and in this way prepared the great Mishna 
compilation of R. Judah Hanasi. Besides being one of the 
most distinguished teachers of the law, he was also a very popu- 
lar lecturer (Hagadist), who used to illustrate his lectures by 
interesting fables and parables. Of his domestic life it is known 
that he was married to Beruria, the learned daughter of the 














ee i he alee ae 








HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. 15 


celebrated teacher and martyr R. Chananiah b. Teradyon. 
The pious resignation which he and his noble wife exhibited 
at the sudden death of their two promising sons has been im- 
mortalized by a popular legend in the Midrash. 

2. R. Fehuda b. Ilat is generally called in the Mishna simply 
R. Jehuda. After having received instruction in the law from 
his father, who had been a disciple of R. Eliezer b. Hyrkanos, 
he attended the lectures of R. Tarphon, and became then one 
of the distinguished disciples of R. Akiba. On account of his 
great eloquence he is called, ‘The first among the speakers.”’ 
Also his piety, modesty and prudence are highly praised. He 
gained a modest subsistence by a mechanical trade, in accord- 
ance with his favored maxims: ‘‘ Labor honors man,” and ‘‘ He 
who does not teach his son a trade, teaches him, as it were, 
robbery.’’ Having been one of the seven disciples who after 
the death of R. Akiba were ordained by R. Juda b. Baba con- 
trary to the Hadrianic edict, he had to flee. After three years 
he returned with his colleagues to Usha and became one of the 
prominent members of the resuscitated Sanhedrin. The patri- 
arch R. Simon ben Gamaliel honored him greatly, and ap- 
pointed him as one of his advisers. As expounder of the law 
he was a great authority, and is very often quoted in all parts 
of the Mishna and Boraitha. His legal opinions generally pre- 
vail, when differing from those of his colleagues R. Meir and 
R.Simon. To him is also ascribed the authorship of the essen- 
tial part of the Siphra. The Hagada of the Talmud records 
many of his beautiful sayings, which characterize him not only 
as a noble-hearted teacher, but also as a sound and clear- 
headed interpreter of Scriptures. He, for instance, denied 
the literal meaning of the resurrection of the dead bones 
spoken of in Ezekiel, ch. XX XVII., but declared it to be merely 
a poetical figure for Israel’s rejuvenation. (Sanhedrin, p. 278.) 

R. Jehuda had two learned sons who flourished as teachers 
in the following generation. 

3. R. Fose b. Chalafta, in the Mishna called simply R. Jose, 
was from Sepphoris, where already his learned father had es- 
tablished a school. Though by trade a tanner, be became one 
of the most distinguished teachers of his time. He was a dis- 
ciple of R. Akiba and of R. Tarphon. Like his colleagues he 
was ordained by R. Juda b. Baba, and on this account had 


16 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


to flee to the south of Palestine, whence he later on returned 
with them to Usha. For having kept silent when in his pres- 
ence R. Simon made a slighting remark against the Roman 
government, he was banished to Asia Minor. When permitted 
to return, he settled in his native city, Sepphoris, where he died 
at an advanced age. Besides being a great authority in the law, 
whose opinions prevail against those of his colleagues R. Meir, 
R. Jehuda and R. Simon, he was an historian to whom the 
_ authorship of the chronological book Seder Olam is ascribed. 

4. R. Simon b. Fochai from Galilee, in the Mishna called 
simply R. Simon, was likewise one of the most distinguished 
disciples of R. Akiba, whose lectures he attended during thir- 
teen years. “Be satisfied that I and thy creator know thy 
powers,” were the words with which this teacher comforted 
him, when he felt somewhat slighted on account of a certain 
preference given to his younger colleague R. Meir. He shared 
the fate of his colleagues in being compelled to flee after ordi- 
nation. Afterwards, he joined them at the new seat of the 
Sanhedrin in Usha. Ona certain occasion he gave vent to his 
bitter feeling against the Romans, which was reported to the 
Roman governor, who condemned him to death. He, how- 
ever, escaped this fate by concealing himself in a cave, where 
he is said to have remained for several years, together with his 
son, engaged in the study of the law, and subsisting on the 
fruit of the carob-trees which abounded there in the neighbor- 
hood. In the meantime political affairs had taken a favorable 
turn, so that he had no longer to fear any persecution; he left 
his hiding place and reopened his academy at Tekoa, in Galilee, 
where a circle of disciples gathered around him. He survived 
all his colleagues, and in his old age was delegated to Rome, 
where he succeeded in obtaining from the emperor (Marcus. 
Aurelius) the repeal of some edicts against the Jewish religion. 

In the interpretation of the law, R. Simon departed from 
the method of his teacher R. Akiba, as he inclined to the view 
of R. Ishmael that ‘“‘the Torah speaks the common language 
of man,’”’ and consequently regarded logical reasoning as the 
proper starting point for legal deductions, instead of pleonastic 
words, syllables and letters. In accordance with this sound 
principle, he tried to investigate the evident motive of different 
biblical laws, and to make conclusions therefrom for their 


4 
+ 
7 

t 


se —— a Fees saree ne : 
eS SSSR oat Sree ad a eee 











a 


Se 


er ae 











HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. 17 


proper application. In regard to treating and arranging the 
oral law, however, he followed the method of R. Akiba in sub- 
suming various provisions under guiding rules and principles. 
R. Simon is regarded as the author of the Siphre, though that 
work in its present shape shows many additions by the hands 
of later authorities.* 

5. R. Elazar b. Shamua, in the Mishna simply R. Elazar, 
was among those of R. Akiba’s disciples who in consequence 
of the Hadrian edicts went to the South, whence he went to 
Nisibis. He does not, however, appear to have joined his 
colleagues when they gathered again at Usha. He is regarded 
as a great authority in the law. The place of his academy is 
not known, but it is stated that his school was always over- 
crowded by disciples eager to hear his learned lectures. Among 
his disciples was also the later patriarch R. Jehuda. Ona 
journey, he visited his former colleague R. Meir at Ardiscos, 
in Asia Minor, and with him had discussions on important 
questions of the law, which are recorded in the Mishna and 
Boraitha. 

6. R. Fochanan the Sandelar had this surname probably 
from his trade in sandals. Born in Alexandria in Egypt, he 
came to Palestine to attend the lectures of R. Akiba, and was 
so faithful a disciple that he visited this teacher even in prison, 
in order to receive instruction from him. His legal opinions are 
occasionally recorded in the Mishna as well as in the To- 
sephta and Boraitha. 

7. R. Elazar (or Eliezer) b. facob was a disciple of R. Akiba 
and later a member of the Sanhedrin in Usha. This teacher 
must not be confounded with a former teacher by that name 
who flourished in the second generation. 

8. R. Nechemia belonged to the last disciples of R. Akiba 
and was an authority especially in the sacrificial law, and in 
laws concerning levitical purification. His controversies are 
mostly with R. Juda b. Ilai. He is said to have compiled a 
Mishna collection which was embodied in the Tosephta. 

9. R. Ffoshua b. Korcha is supposed by some to have been a 
son of R. Akiba, who, on one occasion, is called by such a sur- 





* The Cabbalists ascribe to him the compiling of the Zohar, which was revealed 
by Moses d’ Leon. The Talmud also speaks of him as the one to whom miracles 
occurred frequently. 

2 ii 





18 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


name (meaning the bald head); but this supposition is very 
improbable, for it would be strange that the son of so illustrious 
a man should not rather have been called by his father’s proper 
name, and that he should never have alluded to his celebrated 
parent or to any of his teachines.* 

R. Joshua b. K. belonged to the authorities of this genera- 
tion, though only a few of his opinions are recorded in the 
Mishna. 

10. R. Simon b. Gamaliel was the son and successor of the 
patriarch Gamaliel II. of Jabne. In his youth, he witnessed 
the fall of Bethar, and escaped the threatened arrest by flight. 
After the death of the emperor Hadrian, he returned to Jabne 
where he, in connection with some teachers, reopened an acad- 
emy, and assumed the hereditary dignity of a patriarch. As 
the returning disciples of R. Akiba, who were the leading 
teachers of that generation, preferred Usha as the seat of the 
new Sanhedrin, R. Simon was obliged to transfer his academy 
to that city, and appointed R. Nathan as Ab Beth-din (vice- 
president), and R. Meir as Chacham (advising sage, or speaker). 
Both of these officers had to retire however, when found plan- 
ning his deposal on account of some marks of distinction 
introduced in order to raise the patriarchal dignity. He did 
not enjoy the privilege of his predecessors to be titled Rabban 
(our teacher), but like the other teachers, he was simply called 
Rabbi (my teacher), probably because many of his contem- 
poraries were superior to him in learning. Still, his legal 
opinions, which are frequently quoted in the Mishna and 
Boraitha, give evidence that he was a man of considerable 
learning and of sound and clear judgment as well as of noble 
principles. He introduced several legal provisions for the 
protection of the rights of women and slaves, and for the 
general welfare of the community. All his opinions expressed 
in the Mishna, with the exception of only three cases, are re- 


garded by later teachers as authoritative (Halakha). His 
discussions recorded in the Mishna and Boraitha are mostly 





* That R. Akiba had a son by the name of R. Joshua is stated in a Boraitha ; 
but the identity of this son with R. Joshua b. Korcha is conclusively disproved by 
the Tosaphist Rabenu Tam in his remarks on Sabbath r1s0a, and B. Bathra 113a. 

+ There are, however, some passages in the Mishna and Gemara in which he is 
called Rabban. 








Sede a 





SSS 


HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. 19 


held with his celebrated son, R. Jehuda Hanasi. R. Simon b. 
Gamaliel appears to have been acquainted also with the Greek 
language and sciences. 

Apart from the great circle of teachers mentioned above, 
the disciples of R. Ishmael b. Elisha formed a school in the 
extreme South of Judea (Darom), where they continued the 
methods of their teacher. Of this separate school, called Debe 
R. Ishmael, only two members are mentioned by name: R. 
Fostah and R. Fonathan. 


FirtH GENERATION. 


This generation extends from the death of R. Simon b. 
Gamaliel II., to the death of R. Jehuda Hanasi (from 165 to 
about 200). 

The following are the most prominent teachers of this 
generation: 

(1) R. Nathan (the Babylonian); (2) Symmachos; (3) R. 
Jehuda Hanasi (the Patriarch), called simply Rabbi; (4) R. 
Jose b. Juda; (5) R. Elazar b. Simon; (6) R. Simon b. Elazar. 
Strack places these in the fourth generation and adds (7) Dus- 
tayi b. Janai; (8) Simeon b. Jehuda, of the village Akum; 
(9) Achia b. Joashai; (10) Jacob; (11) Itzchok; (12) Eliezar 
». Simeon b. Johai; (13) Pinchas b. Jaier; (14) Ischmael b. 
Jos; (15) Menachem b. Jos (b. Chialaphta); (16) Jehudah b. 
Lakish; (17) Elazar Charkaper; (18) Abba Elazar b. Gamla; 
(19) Simon b. Jos b. Lecunia; (20) Simon b. Menascha; (21) 
Jehudah b. Tamah. 

The junior sages of the fifth generation Strack quotes thus: 
(1) Hyye Rabbi (the Great); (2) Eliezer b. Kappara; (3) 
Simeon b. ’Halafta; (4) Lewi b. Sissi; (5) Simai. 

Both Mielziner and Strack do not count Simon Shezurri, 
one of the great Tanaim who belongs to the third generation, 
and who is mentioned in the Mishna several times, and of whom 
it is said (Menachoth, 30 b), ‘‘ Everywhere the name of Simeon 
Shezurri is mentioned, the Halakha prevails in accordance with 
him.” We would also count Wradimus b. R. Jose though 
according to some he was identical with Menachem, and who 
was one of the greatest Tanaim in the time of Rabbi. (See 
I. H. Weiss, p. 166.) [See Appendix No. I.] His father, 


20 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


R. Jose, quotes him as the author of a Halakha (Tosephtha, 
Baba Metzia). 


_ Characteristics and Biographical Sketches. 


1. R. Nathan was the son of one of the exilarchs in Babylon, 
and probably received his education in his native country. 
For some unknown reasons he emigrated to Judea, and on ac- 
count of his great learning he was appointed by the patriarch, 
R. Simon b. Gamaliel, to the dignity of Ab-Beth-din (chief 


Justice or vice-president), in the Sanhedrin of Usha. He had — 


to retire from this office because of his and R. Meir’s dissension 
with the patriarch, but was soon reinstated and became recon- 
ciled with the Synhedrial president, who held him in high 
esteem. Also the suceeding patriarch, R. Jehuda, with whom 
he had many discussions on questions of the law, speaks of him 
with great respect. R. Nathan was not only an authority in 
the rabbinical law, especially in jurisprudence, but appears 
also to have been well versed in mathematics, astronomy and 
other sciences. To him is ascribed the authorship of Aboth 
de R. Nathan, which is a kind of Tosephta to Pirke Aboth. 

2. Symmachos was a prominent disciple of R. Meir and 
distinguished for his great dialectical powers. After the death 
of his teacher, he as well as other disciples of R. Meir were ex- 
cluded from the academy of R. Jehuda Hanasi, as they were 
charged with indulging in sophistical disputations in order to 
display their dialectical sagacity, instead of seeking after truth. 
Nevertheless the Mishna as well as the Tosephta makes mention 
of the opinions of Symmachos. His renown lay in the rab- 
binical jurisprudence, in which he laid down certain principles 
often referred to in the Talmud. 

3. R. Fehuda (Fuda) Hanasi, by way of eminence simply 
called Rabbi, was a son of the patriarch R. Simon b. Gamaliel 
II., and is said to have been born on the same day when R. 
Akiba was executed. His principal teachers were R. Simon b. 
Jochai and R. Elazar b. Shamua, under whose guidance his 
intellectual capacity and splendid talents early developed. 
Besides his immense knowledge of the whole range of the tra- 
ditional law, he had a liberal education in secular branches and 
was especially acquainted with the Greek language, which he 





a 


eA ERA eta a Pe 


— im 


oe a - 
Se ee ee 


6s 


_ 
Se, wt 





ae mae =o 











HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. 21 


preferred to the Syriac, the popular language of Palestine at 
that time. After the death of his father he succeeded him in 
the dignity of patriarch, and became the chief authority, eclips- 
ing all other teachers of that generation. Though blessed with 
great riches, he preferred to live in a simple style and applied 
his wealth to the maintenance of his numerous pupils and to 
charitable works. The seat of his academy was first at Beth- 
Shearim, afterward at Sepphoris, and also at Tiberias. Among - 
his most distinguished disciples were: R. Chiya; (Simon) bar 
Kappara; Levi bar Sissi; R. Abba Areca, later called Rab; 
Mar Samuel, and many others. He is said to have been in a 
friendly relation with one of the Roman emperors, either 
Marcus Aurelius, or more probably, Lucius Verus Antoninus. 
By virtue of his authority R. Jehuda abolished several customs 
and ceremonies which, though sanctified by age, had become 
impracticable through the change of times and circumstances. 
His most meritorious work, by which he erected for himself a 
monument of enduring fame, was the completion of the Mishna 
compilation which henceforth became the authoritative code 
of the traditional law and superseded all similar compilations 
made by former teachers. 

4. R. Fose ben Fuda (b. Iai) belonged to the great teachers 
of that generation and was a friend of R. Jehuda Hanasi. His 
legal opinions are frequently recorded in the Mishna as well as 
in the Tosephta. 

5. R. Elazar b. Simon (b. Jochai) was a disciple of R. Simon 
b. Gamaliel and of R. Joshua b. Korcha. - Although an au- 
thority in the rabbinical law to whom even the patriarch some- 
times yielded, he incurred the severest censure of his colleagues 
for having, on a certain occasion, lent his assistance to the 
Romans in prosecuting some Jewish freebooters. 

6. R. Simon b. Elazar (probably E. b. Shamua), was a dis- 
ciple of R. Meir, whose opinions he often quotes. He estab- 
lished several important principles, especially in the civil law. 


S1xtH GENERATION. 


To this generation belong the younger contemporaries and 
disciples of R. Juda Hanasi. They are not mentioned in the 
Mishna, but in the Tosephta and Boraitha, and are therefore 


22 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


termed semi-Tanaim, who form a connecting link between the 
period of Tanaim and that of the Amoraim. Their names are: 

(1) Plimo; (2) Ise b. Juda; (3) R. Elazar b. Jose; (4) R. 
Ishmael bar Jose; (5) R. Juda b. Lakish; (6) R. Chiya; (7) 
R. Acha; (8) R. Abba (Areca). 

There is no sixth generation according to Strack, and all 
who are mentioned here he includes in the fifth generation. 
We have to remark that all the eight mentioned above by 
Mielziner, as they formed the last generation of the Tanaim, 
are also named Amoraim; and therefore we find stated in many 
places in the Talmud where one of the above-mentioned is in 
conflict with a Mishna or a Boraitha: ‘‘He is a Tana, and has 
the right to differ with the authorities of the Mishna or the 
Boraitha.”’ 

The most prominent among these semi-Tanaim were R. 
Chiya and R. Abba (Areca). 

1. R. Chiya (bar Abba) the elder, siteh epithet is to dis- 
tinguish him from a later Amora by the same name, was a 
Babylonian who came at an already advanced age to Palestine, 
where he became the most distinguished disciple and friend 
of R. Jehuda Hanasi. He and his disciple R. Oshaya (or 
Hoshaya) are regarded as the principal authors or compilers 
of the Tosephta. 

2. R. Abba (Areca) a nephew of R. Chiya, was likewise a 
Babylonian, and a disciple of R. Jehuda Hanasi, after whose 


death he returned to his native country, where, under the his- | 


torical name of Rab, he became the principal Amora. (See 
the following chapter.) 

Of other distinguished teachers flourishing in this generation 
and in the beginning of the period of the Amoraim, we have to 
mention especially R. fanaz (the elder), and R. fonathan (the 
elder). The former lived in Sepphoris and was one of the 
teachers of R. Jochanan bar Hephacha, the greatest among the 
Palestinian Amoraim. 


CHAPTER IIT. 


THE AMORAIM OR EXPOUNDERS OF THE MISHNA. 


As the Mishna compilation of R. Jehuda Hanasi became 
the authoritative code of the oral Law, the activity of the 


Se ee 
i eres 





ee Px — ities _— 
SES sl Saree a a 
oe es AL ot Rr eee ete 


—r 
ered’ 


an 














HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. 23 


teachers was principally devoted to expounding this code. 
This was done as well in the academies of Tiberias, Sepphoris, 
Cesarea in Palestine, as in those of Nahardea, Sura, and later 
of Pumbaditha and some other seats of learning in Babylonia. 
The main object of the lectures and discussions in those acad- 
emies was to interpret the often very brief and concise expres- 
sion of the Mishna, to investigate its reasons and sources, to 
reconcile seeming contradictions, to compare its canons with 
those of the Boraithoth, and to apply its decisions and estab- 
lished principles to new cases not yet provided for. The 
teachers who were engaged in this work, which finally became 
embodied in the Gemara, are called Amoraim, meaning speak- 
ers, interpreters, expounders.* They were not as independent 
in their legal opinions and decisions as their predecessors, the 
Tanaim and semi-Tanaim, as they had not the authority to 
contradict Halakhoth and principles accepted in the Mishna 
or Boraitha. The Palestinian Amoraim, having generally been 
ordained by the Nasi, had the title of Rabbi, while the Baby- 
lonian teachers of that period had only the title of Rab or of 
Mar. 

The period of Amoraim extends from the death of 
R. Jehuda Hanasi to the compilation of the Babylonian 
Talmud; that is, from the beginning of the third to the end 
of the fifth century. This period has been divided by some 
into six, by others into seven, minor periods or generations, 
which are determined by the beginning and the end of the 
activity of the most prominent teachers flourishing during 
that time. 

The number of Amoraim who are mentioned in the Talmud 
amounts to several hundreds. The most distinguished among 
them, especially those who presided over the great academies, 





* In a more restricted meaning the term A mora (from DN, to say, to speak) sig- 
nifies the same as Methurgeman (the interpreter), that is, the officer in the academies 
who, standing at the side of the lecturer or presiding teacher, had to announce 
loudly and explain to the large assembly what the teacher just expressed briefly and in 
a low voice. 

The term Zana, which generally applies only to the teachers mentioned in the 
Mishna and Boraitha, is in the period of Amoraim sometimes used also to signify one 
whose special business it was to recite the memorized Boraithoth to the expounding 
teachers. In this sense the term is to be understood in the phrase : A Tana (teacher) 
repeated a Boraitha (or taught same) before so and so, etc. 


24 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


are contained in the following chronological tables of the six 
generations of Amoraim.* 


THE First GENERATION OF AMORAIM. 


A. Palestinian (219-279). B. Babylonian (219-257). 
1. R. Chanina bar Chama. 1. Abba Areca, called simply 
2. R. Jochanan (bar Napacha). Rab. 

3. R. Simon ben Lakish (Resh 2. (Mar) Samuel. 
Lakish). ) 
4. R. Joshua ben Levi. 


Strack adds to the first generation of the Palestinian, (5) 
Hama b. Biza; (6) Janai; (7) Jehuda; and (8) Hiskiah sons of 
Hyye; (9) Bnya or Bnaah; (10) Pdaya or Jehuda b. Pdaya; 
(11) Hoshia b. Hanninah b. Biza, named Rabbh the Great; 
(12) Jose b. Zimra; (13) Simon b. Yehozodak. 

To the Babylonian Amoraim he adds, (3) Shila; (4) Abba 
b. Abba (father of Mar Samuel); (5) Karna t; (6) Mar 
Uqba (the Exilarch). 


All the Palestinian Amoraim named here are very often . 


mentioned in the Babylonian Talmud, and as their biograph- 
ical sketches are interesting we could not omit them. 


Biographical Sketches. 


A. PALESTINIAN AMORAIM. 


During this generation R. Gamaliel III. and R. Judah II. 
were successively the patriarchs. 

1. R. Chanina bar Chama (born about 180, died 260), was 
a disciple of R. Jehuda Hanasi, whose son and successor, R. 
Gamaliel III., bestowed on him the title of Rabbi. He then 


presided over his own academy in Sepphoris and stood in high 


regard on account of his learning, modesty and piety. As 





* Some scholars count the semi-Tanaim as the first generation, and have con- 
sequently seven instead of six generations. The period of Palestinian Amoraim 
being much shorter than that of the Babylonian, ends with the third generation of the 
latter. Frankel in his introduction to the Palestinian Talmud, treating mist of 
the Palestinian Amoraim, divides them also into six generations. 

+ Who was appointed by Mar Samuel to examine Rab. (Will be translated in 
Tract Kethubath.) 


SS oe 
a cede aie ndladdtcae 


oo so 


— Es 


> 


4 
p! 
j 
a | 
a 
a 








Se 


HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. 25 


teacher he was very conservative, transmitting that only which 
he had received by tradition, without ever allowing himself 
an independent decision. Of his prominent contemporaries 
are: R. Ephes, who reopened a school at Lydda, in South Judea; 
Levi b. Sissi (called simply Levi), who, though not presiding 
over an academy, was a distinguished teacher, and later emi- 
grated to Babylonia; further Chizkia, who was a son of R. 
Chiya the Elder, and whose teachings are frequently quoted 
in the Talmud. This Chizkia, who had not the title of Rabbi, 
must not be mistaken for R. Chizkia, who belonged to the 
third generation. 

2. R. F$ochanan bar Napacha, in general called simply R. 
Jochanan (born about 199, died 279), was in his early youth a 
disciple of R. Jehuda Hanasi, later of R. Oshaya in Cesarea, 
also of R. Janai, and especially of R. Chanina b. Chama. He 
then founded his own academy in Tiberias, which henceforth 
became the principal seat of learning in the Holy Land. By 
his great mental powers he excelled all his contemporaries, and 
is regarded the chief Amora of Palestine. In expounding the 
Mishna he introduced an analytical method, and laid down 
certain rules for the final decision in such cases in which the 
Tanaim expressed opposite opinions. His legal teachings, 
ethical aphorisms, and exegetical remarks, transmitted by his 
numerous disciples, form the principal elements of the Gemara. 
He is supposed to have laid the foundation of the Palestinian 
Talmud, though, in its present shape, this work can not have 
been compiled before at least one century after R. Jochanan’s 
death.* 

3. R. Simon b. Lakish, whose name is generally abbrevi- 
ated to Resh Lakish, was a man who combined great physical 
strength with a noble heart and a powerful mind. It is said 
that in his youth he was compelled by circumstances to gain 
his livelihood as a gladiator or soldier, until making the ac- 
quaintance of R. Jochanan, who gained him for the study of 
the law and gave him his sister in marriage. Having developed 





* As to further characteristics of this and the other prominent Amoraim, the fol- 
lowing works may be consulted: Graetz, ‘‘ History of the Jews,” Vol. IV.; Z. Fran- 
kel, ‘‘ Mebo” ; I. H. Weiss, ‘‘ Dor Dor,” Vol. III.; I. Hamburger, ‘* Real Encyclo- 
padie,” Vol. II. Besides, J. Ftirst, ‘‘ Kultur und Literaturgeschichte der Juden in 
Asien,” which treats especially of the Babylonian academies and teachers during the 
period of the Amoraim, 


26 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


extraordinary mental and dialectical powers, he became R. 
Jochanan’s most distinguished friend and colleague. In the 
interpretation of the Mishna and in legal questions they differed, 
however, very often, and their numerous controversies are re- 
ported in the Babylonian Talmud as well as in the Palestinian. 
Also is his Hagadic teachings, Resh Lakish was original and ad- 
vanced some very rational views. 

4. R. Foshua b. Levi (ben Sissi) presided over an academy 
in Lydda. He is regarded as a great authority in the law, and 
his decisions prevail even in cases where his celebrated con- 
temporaries, R. Jochanan and Resh Lakish differ from him. 
Though himself a prolific Hagadist, he disapproved of the 
vagaries of the Hagada, and objected to their being written 
down in books. The circumstance that, on a certain occasion, 
his prayer for rain proved to be efficient, probably gave rise 
to the mystic legends with which the fancy of later genera- 
tions tried to illustrate his great piety. 

To other celebrities flourishing in this generation belongs R. 
Simlat of Lydda, who later settled in Nahardea. He was re- 
puted less as teacher of the Halakha than for his ingenious and 
lucid method of treating the Hagada. 


B. BABYLONIAN AMORAIM. 


1. Abba Areca (or Aricha) was the real name of the chief 
Babylonian Amora, who, by way of eminence, is generally 
called Rab (the Teacher). He was born about 175 and died 247. 
As an orphaned youth he went to his uncle, the celebrated R. 
Chiya in Palestine, to finish his studies in the academy of R. 
Jehuda Hanasi. The mental abilities which he displayed soon 
attracted general attention. After the death of R. Jehuda, 
Abba returned to his native country, and in the year 219 
founded the academy in Sura, where 1,200 pupils flocked 
around him from all parts of Babylonia. His authority was 
recognized even by the most celebrated teachers in Palestine. 
Being regarded as one of the semi-Tanaim, he ventured in 
some instances even to dispute some opinions accepted 
in the Mishna, a privilege otherwise not accorded to any 
of the Amoraim. Most of his decisions, especially in ritual 
questions, obtained legal sanction, but in the civil law his 














HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. 27 


friend Samuel in Nahardea was his superior. Over one hun- 
dred of his numerous disciples, who transmitted his teachings 
and decisions to later generations, are mentioned in the Talmud 
by their names. 

2. Samuel, or Mar Samuel, was born about 180 in Nahardea, 
died there 257. His father, Abba bar Abba, and Levi b. Sissi 
were his first teachers. Like Rab he went to Palestine and 
became a disciple of Rabbi Jehuda Hanasi, from whom, how- 
ever, he could not obtain the ordination. After his return to 
Nahardea, he succeeded R. Shela in the dignity of president of 
the academy (Resh-Sidra) in that city. Besides the law, he 
cultivated the sciences of medicine and astronomy. As Amora 
he developed especially the rabbinical jurisprudence, in which 
he was regarded as the greatest authority.* Among other im- 
portant principles established by him is that of ‘‘ Dina d’mal- 
chutha Dina,” that is, the civil law of the government is as 
valid for the Jews as their own law. The most friendly and 
brotherly relation prevailed between Samuel and Rab, although 
they often differed in questions of the law. After Rab’s death 
(247), his disciples recognized Samuel as the highest religious 
authority of Babylonia. He died about ten years later, leav- 
ing behind numerous disciples, several of whom became the 
leading teachers in the following generation. 

A distinguished contemporary of Samuel was Mar Ugqba, at 
first head of the court in Kafri, and later Exilarch in Nahardea. 


THE SECOND GENERATION OF AMORAIM. 


A. Palestinian (279-320). B. Babylonian (257-320). 
1..R. Elazar b. Pedath. 1. Rab Huna. 
2. R. Ame. 2. Rab Juda bar Jecheskel. 
3. R. Assi. 3. Rab Chisda (or Chasda). 
4. R. Chiya bar Abba. 4. Rab Shesheth. 
5. Simon bar Abba. 5. Rab Nachman b. Jacob. 
6. R. Abbuhu. 


7. R. Zera (Zeira). 


To the second generation of the Palestinian, Strack adds, 
(8) Jehudah the Second (son of Gamalia III.), (Johanan and 





* Mar Samuel made also a compilation of Boraithoth, which is quoted in the 
“Talmud by the phrase ‘‘ the disciples of Samuel.” 


28 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


Simon b. Lakish Strack refers to the second generation); (9) 
Hilfa or Ilfa; (10) Alexanderi; (11) Khana; (12) Chia bar 
Joseph; (13) Jos b. Chaninah; (14) Abba b. Zabdah, and (15) 
Simlaie. 

To the Babylonian Strack adds, (6) Ktinah; (7) Adda b. 
Ahba; (8) Rabba b. Abuhu, and (9) Mathna. . 


Remarks and Biographical Sketches. 
A. PALESTINIAN AMORAIM. 


The patriarchate during this generation was successively 
in the hands of R. Gamaliel IV., and R. Judah III. 

1. R. Elazar ben Pedath, generally called simply R. Elazar, 
like the Tana R. Elazar (ben Shamua), for whom he must not 
be mistaken, was a native of Babylonia, and a disciple and 
later an associate of R. Jochanan, whom he survived. He 
enjoyed great authority and is very often quoted in the Talmud. 

2. and 3. R. Ame and R. Assi were likewise Babylonians, 
and distinguished disciples of R. Jochanan. After the death 
of R. Elazar they became the heads of the declining academy 
in Tiberias. They had the title only of “‘ Judges, or the Aaron- 
ites of the Holy Land,” and subordinated themselves to the 
growing authority of the teachers in Babylonia. Rabbi Assi 
is not to be confounded with his contemporary the Babylonian 
Amora Rab Assi, who was a colleague of Rab Saphra and a 
disciple of Rab in Sura.* 

4. and 5. R. Chtya bar Abba and Simon bar Abba were prob- 
ably brothers. They had emigrated from Babylonia and be- 
came disciples of R. Jochanan. Both were distinguished 
teachers, but very poor. In questions of the law they were 
inclined to rigorous views. 

6. R. Abbahu of Cesarea, disciple of R. Jochanan, friend 
and colleague of R. Ame and R. Assi, was a man of great wealth 
and of a liberal education. He hada thorough knowledge of the 
Greek language, and favored Greek culture. Being held in 
high esteem by the Roman authorities, he had great political 
influence. He seems to have had frequent controversies with 
the teachers of Christianity in Caesarea. Besides being a 





* See Tosephoth Chullin, tga. 











HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. 29 


prominent teacher whose legal opinions are quoted in all parts 
of the Palestinian and Babylonian Talmud, he was a very 
popular lecturer. 

7. R. Zetra (or Zera), was a Babylonian and a disciple of 
Rab Juda bar Jecheskel, but dissatisfied with the hair-splitting 
method prevailing in the academies of his native country, he 
emigrated to Palestine where he attended the lectures of R. 
Elazar b. Pedath in Tiberias, and tried, in vain, to unlearn his 
former method of study. Having been ordained as Rabbi, he 
became one of the authorities in Palestine, together with R. 
Ame, R. Assi and R. Abbuhu. 


B. BABYLONIAN AMORAIM. 


1. Rab Huna (born 212, died 297) was a disciple of Rab, 
whom, after Mar Samuel’s death, he succeeded as president of 
the academy in Sura. In this office he was active for forty 
vears. He employed fifteen assistants to repeat and explain 
his lectures to his 800 disciples. Highly revered for his great 
learning and his noble character, he enjoyed an undisputed 
authority to which even the Palestinian teachers R. Ame and 
R. Assi voluntarily subordinated themselves. 

2. Rab Fuda bar Fecheskel, generally called simply R. Juda 
(or Jehuda), was a disciple of Rab, and also of Samuel. The 
latter teacher, whose peculiar method he adopted and devel- 
oped, used to characterize him by the epithet, “the acute.” 
He founded the academy in Pumbaditha, but after R. Huna’s 
death he was chosen as his successor (Resh Methibta), at Sura, 
where after two years (299), he died at an advanced age. 

3. Rab Chisda (or Chasda) belonged to the younger dis- 
ciples of Rab, after whose death he attended also the lectures 
of R. Huna. But from the latter teacher he soon separated 
on account of a misunderstanding between them, and estab- 
lished a school of his own. At the same time, he was one of 
the Judges in Sura. After Rab Juda’s death, R. Chisda, 
though already above eighty years old, became head of the 

academy in Sura, and remained in this office for about ten years. 
4. Rab Shesheth, a disciple of Rab and Samuel, was member 
of the court in Nahardea. After the destruction of that city 
he went to Mechuza; later he settled in Silhi, where he founded 


30 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


an academy. Being blind, he had to rely upon his powerful 
memory. He was R. Chisda’s opponent in the Halakha, and 
disapproved of the hair-splitting dialectical method which had 
come in vogue among the followers of Rab Juda in Pumbaditha. 

5. Rab Nachman b. facob, called simply Rab Nachman, was 
a prominent disciple of Mar Samuel. By his father-in-law, the 
exilarch Abba bar Abuha, he was appoined chief justice in 
Nahardea. After Mar Samuel’s death, he succeeded him as 
rector of the academy in that city. When two years later 
(259), the city of Nahardea was destroyed, R. Nachman settled 
in Shechan-Zib. He is regarded as a great authority especially in 
the rabbinical jurisprudence, in which he established many im- 
portant principles. Among others, he originated the rabbinical 
oath, that is, the purging oath imposed in a law suit on claims 
even in cases of general denial on the part of the defendant. 

Of other teachers belonging to this generation, who, though 
not standing at the head of the leading academies, are often 
quoted in the Talmud, the following must be noted: 

(a) Rabba bar bar Chana, who was a Babylonian and son 
of Abba bar Chana. After having attended the academy of 
R. Jochanan in Palestine, he returned to his native country, 
where he frequently reported the opinions of his great teacher. 
He is also noted for the many allegorical narratives ascribed 
to him in the Talmud. 

(b) Ulla (b. Ishmael), was a Palestinian who frequently 
travelled to Babylonia, where he finally settled and died. Al- 
though without the title of Rabbi or Rab, he was regarded as 
a distinguished teacher whose opinions and reports are often 
mentioned. 


THE THIRD GENERATION OF AMORAIM. 


A. Palestinian (320-359). B. Babylonian (320-375). 
1. R. Jeremiah. 1. Rabba bar Huna. 
2. R. Jonah. 2. Rabba bar Nachmani. 
3. R. Jose. 3. Rab Joseph (bar Chiya). 
4. Abaye. 
5. Rabha. 


6. Rab Nachman bar Isaac. 
7. Rab Papa. 








HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. 31 


To the Palestinian, Strack adds, (4) Samuel b. Nachman 
(in the Babylonian he is mentioned as Nachmani) ; (5) Itzhak 
the second (his contemporary in Babylonia is Nachman b. 
Jacob) ; (6) Lewi; (7) Abuhu; (8) Ami; (9) Assi; (10) Hyya 
b. Abba II. (Elazar b. Pedath he quotes in the third gen- 
eration); (11) Simeon b. Abba; (12) Simur (also Zera is 
mentioned among the second generation); (13) Samuel b. 
Itzhak; (14) Hilla or Illeh; (15) Zrika; (16) Hoshia the sec- 
ond; (17) Chananiah (the colleague of the Rabbinat)*; (18) 
Janai b. Ishmael; (19) Joshua; (20) Ban b. Mamal (in Baby- 
lonia named Abba b. Mamal); (21) Jacob b. Ide; (22) Itzhak 
b. Nachma; (23) Maysha; (24) Bibe; (Haggi and Jeremiah 
Strack quotes as belonging also to the fourth generation). 

To the Babylonian, Strack adds, (8) Chisda; (9) Ham- 
nuna; (10) Shesheth; (11) Nachma b. Jacob; (12) Rabba 
b. b. Hanna; (13) Ulla b. Ishmael; (14) Rabba b. Nachmene, 
and (15) Joseph b. Hiah. 


Remarks and Biographical Sketches. 
A. PALESTINIAN AMORAIM. 


The patriarch of this period was Hillel II., who introduced 
the fixed Jewish calendar. 

In consequence of the persecutions and the banishment of 
several religious teachers under the emperors Constantine and 
Constantius, the Palestinian academies entirely decayed. The 
only teachers of any prominence are the following: 

1. Rk. feremiah was a Babylonian and disciple of R. Zeira, 
whom he followed to Palestine. In his younger days, when 
still in his native country, he indulged in propounding puzzling 
questions of trifling casuistry, by which he probably intended 
to ridicule the subtile method prevailing among some of the 
contemporary teachers, and on this account he was expelled 
from the academy. In the Holy Land he was more appre- 
ciated, and, after the death of R. Abbahu and R. Zeira, was 
acknowledged as the only authority in that country. 

2. R. fonah was a disciple of R. Ila (Hila) and of R. Jere- 





* There are eight Tanaim and twenty-three Amoraim named Chananiah. We 
do not remember who was called so as Strack did. 


32 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


miah. His opinions are frequently quoted, especially in the 
Palestinian Talmud. 

3. R. Fose (bar Zabda), colleague of R. Jonah, was one of 
the last rabbinical authorities in Palestine. 

It is probable that the compilation of the Palestinian 
Talmud was accomplished about that time, though it cannot be 
stated by whom. 


B. BABYLONIAN AMORAIM. 


1. Rabba (or Rab Abba) bar Huna was not, as erroneously 
supposed by some, the son of the exilarch Huna Mari, but of 
Rab Huna, the disciple and successor of Rab. After the death 
of R. Chisda (309), he succeeded him in the dignity of president 
of the academy in Sura. Under his presidency, lasting thir- 
teen years, this academy was eclipsed by that of Pumbaditha, 
and after his death it remained deserted for about fifty years 
until Rab Ashe restored it to its former glory. 

2. Rabba bar Nachmamz, in the Talmud called simply Rabba 
was born 270, and died 330. He was a disciple of Rab Huna, 
Rab Juda and Rab Chisda, and displayed from his youth great 
dialectical powers on account of which he was characterized 
as ‘“‘the uprooter of mountains.”’ Selected as head of the 
academy of Pumbaditha, he attracted large crowds of hearers 
by his ingenious method of teaching. In his lectures which 
commented on all parts of the Mishna, he investigated the 
reason of the laws and made therefrom logical deductions. 
Besides, he tried to reconcile seeming differences between the 
Mishna, the Baraithoth, and the traditional teachings of later 
authorities. He also liked to propound puzzling problems of 
the law, in order to test and sharpen the mental powers of his 
disciples. A charge having been made against him by the 
Persian government that many of his numerous hearers at- 
tended his lectures in order to evade the poll-tax, he fled from 
Pumbaditha and died in solitude. 

3. Rab Foseph (bar Chiya) was a disciple of Rab Juda and 
Rab Shesheth, and succeeded his friend Rabba in the dignity 
of president of the academy in Pumbadita, after having once 
before been elected for this office, which he declined in favor of 
Rabba. On account of his thorough knowledge of the sources 











HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. 33 


of the Law, to which he attached more importance than to 
ingenious deductions, he was called Sinat. Besides being a 
great authority in the rabbinical law, he devoted himself to 
the Targum of the Bible, especially of the prophetical books. 
In his old age he became blind. He died in the year 333, after 
having presided over the academy of Pumbaditha only for 
three years. 

4. Abaye, surnamed Nachmani (b. 280, d. 338) was a son 
of Kaylil and a pupil of his uncle Rabba bar Nachmani, and of 
Rab Joseph. He was highly esteemed not only for his pro- 
found knowledge of the law and his mastership in Talmudical 
dialectics, but also for his integrity and gentleness. After Rab 
Joseph’s death he was selected as head of the academy in Pum- 
baditha, but under his administration, which lasted about five 
years, the number of hearers in that academy decreased con- 
siderably, as his more talented colleague Raba had founded a 
new academy in Machuza which attracted greater crowds of 
pupils. Under these two Amoraim the dialectical method of 
the Babylonian teachers reached the highest development. 
Their discussions, which mostly concern some very nice dis- 
tinctions in the interpretation of the Mishna, in order to recon- 
cile conflicting passages, fill the pages of the Talmud.* In 
their differences concerning more practical questions, the 
opinion of Raba generally prevails, so that later authorities 
pointed out only six cases in which the decision of Abaye was 

to be adopted against that of his rival. 
5. Raba was the son of Joseph b. Chama in Machuza. He 
was born 299, and died 352. In his youth he attended the 
lectures of Rab Nachman and of R. Chisda. Later, he and 
Abaye were fellow-students in the academy of Rabba bar 
Nachmani. Here he developed his dialectical powers, by which 
he soon surpassed all his contemporaries. He opened an acad- 
emy in Machuza which attracted a great number of students. 
After Abaye’s death this academy supplanted that in Pumba- 
ditha and during Raba’s lifetime became almost the only seat 
of learning in Babylonia. His controversies with his contem- 
poraries, especially with his rival colleague, Abaye, are very 





* The often very subtile argumentations of these two teachers became so pro- 
verbial that the phrase ‘‘ the critical questions of Abaye and Raba” is used in the 
Talmud as a signification of acute discussions and minute investigations. 


3 li 


34 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


numerous. Wherever an opinion of Abaye is recorded in the 
Talmud, it is almost always followed by the contrary view and 
argument of Raba. 

6. Rab Nachman b. Isaac was a disciple of Rab Nachman 
(b. Jacob), and afterward an officer as Resh Calla in the acad- 
emy of Raba. After the death of the latter he was made 
president of the academy in Pumbaditha, which now resumed 
its former rank. In this capacity he remained only four years 
(352-356), and left no remarkable traces of his activity. Still 
less significant was the activity of his successor, R. Chama from 
Nahardea, who held the office for twenty-one years (356-377). 

7. Rab Papa (bar Chanan), a disciple of Abaye and Raba, 
founded a new school in Nares, in the vicinity of Sura, over 
which he presided for nineteen years (354-375). He adopted 
the dialectical method of his former teachers without possess- 
ing their ingenuity and their independence, and consequently 
did not give satisfaction to those of his hearers who had for- 
merly attended the lectures of Raba. One of his peculiarities 
was that he frequently refers to popular proverbs people say.* 


THE FourRTH GENERATION OF BABYLONIAN AMORAIM. 
(375-427). 


A. Sura. B. Pumbaditha. C. Nahardea. 
1. Rab Ashe. 1. Rab Zebid. Amemar. 
2. Rab Dime. 
3. Rafram. 
4. Rab Kahana. 
5. Mar Zutra. 


To the fourth generation Strack adds, (1) Jeremiah (who 
though a Babylonian native, emigrated to Palestine, and was 
counted among the Palestinian) ; (2) Haggi; (3) Juda the third 
(Nassi), son of Gamaliel the fourth; (4) Jona; (5) Josa the 
second (colleague of Jona); (6) Pinchas (who also emigrated 
from Babylonia); (7) Judan; (8) Chelbo; (9) Hisda; (10) 
Chinna; (11) Tabbi; (12) Juda b. Pazi, from Lydda, and 





* This Rab Papa must not be mistaken for an elder teacher by the same name, 
who had ten sons, all well versed in the law, one of whom, Rafram, became head of 
the academy of Pumbaditha in the following generation. Neither is Rab Papa iden- 
tical with Rab Papi, a distinguished lawyer who flourished in a former generation. 








HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. 35 


(13) Jehoshua of Siknin. Concerning the fourth genera- 
tion of Babylonian, he counts also Abbaye and Rabha, and 
adds to the list of Mielziner, Rabba b. Mari, Rabbi b. Ulla, and 
Rabha b. Shilla. Strack does not distinguish between the 
colleges of Sura, Pumbaditha and Nahardea. 


Remarks and Biographical Sketches. 


A. Rab Ashe (son of Simai bar Ashe) was, at the age of 
twenty, made president of the reopened academy of Sura, after 
the death of Rab Papa, and held this office for fifty-two years. 
Under his presidency, this academy, which had been deserted 
since the time of Rabba bar Huna, regained its former glory 
with which Rab had invested it. Combining the profundity 
of knowledge which formerly prevailed in this academy with 
the dialectic methods developed in that of Pumbaditha, he was 
generally recognized as the ruling authority, so that his con- 
temporaries called him by the distinguishing title of Rabbana 
(our teacher). Invested with this great authority, Rab Ashe 
was enabled to assume the task of sifting, arranging and com- 
piling the immense material of traditions, commentaries and 
discussions on the Mishn2, which, during the two preceding 
centuries, had accumulated in the Babylonian academies. In 
the compilation and revision of this gigantic work, which is 
embodied in the Gemara, he was occupied for over half a cen- 
tury, and still he did not complete it entirely, but this was done, 
after his death, by his disciples and successors. 

B. During the long period of Rab Ashe’s activity at the 
academy in Sura, the following teachers presided successively 
over the academy in Pumbaditha: 

1. Rab Zebid (b. Oshaya), who succeeded Rab Chama and 
held the office for eight years (377-385). 

- 2. Rab Dime (b. Chinena) from Nahardea, presiding only 
for three years (385-388). 

3. Rafram bar Papa the elder, in his youth a disciple of 
Raba, succeeded R. Dime (388-394). 

4. Rab Kahana (b. Tachlifa), likewise a disciple of Raba, 
was one of the former teachers'of R. Ashe. In an already ad- 
vanced age, he was made president of the academy of Pum- 
baditha, and died in the year 411. This Rab Cahana must 


36 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


not be mistaken for two other teachers of the same name, one 
of whom had been a distinguished disciple of Rab, and the 
other (Rab Cahana b. Manyome), a disciple of Rab Juda b. 
Jecheskel. 

5. Mar Zutra, who, according to some historians, succeeded 
Rab Cahana as rector of the school in Pumbaditha (411-414), 
is probably identical with Mar Zutra b. Mare, who shortly 
afterwards held the high office as Exilarch. In the rectorship 
of Pumbaditha he was succeeded by Rab Acha bar Raba (414- 
419), and the latter by Rab Gebtha (419-433). 

C. Amemar, a friend of Rab Ashe, was a distinguished 
judge and teacher in Nahardea. When his former teacher 
Rab Dime became president of the academy in Pumbaditha, 
he succeeded him in the rectorship of that of Nahardea, from 
390 to about 422. With him this once so celebrated seat of 
learning passed out of existence. 


THE FirtH GENERATION OF BABYLONIAN AMORAIM (427-468). 


A. Sura. B. Pumbaditha. 
1. Mar Jemar (Maremar). 1. Rafram II. 
2. Rab Ide bar Abin. 2. Rechumai. 
3. Mar bar Rab Ashe. 3. Rab Sama b. Rabba. 


4. Rab Acha of Difte. 


To the fifth generation of Palestinian Strack adds, (1) Abba 
b. Kohen; (2) Abba Mare; (3) Mattanjah; (4) Mana the 
second b. Jona; (5) Chananiah the second; (6) Jos b. Bune; 
(7) Jona of Bozrae; (8) Tanhum, and (9) Chiah b. Adda the 
second. 

To the Babylonian fifth generation he counts, (1) Nachman 
b. Itzhak; (2) Papa; (3) Huna b. Johusua. 


Remarks and Biographical Sketches. 


A. 1. Mar ¥emar (contracted to Maremar), who enjoyed 
high esteem with the leading teachers of his time, succeeded 
his colleague and friend, Rab Ashe, in the presidency of the 
academy in Sura, but held this office only for about five years, 
(427-432). 

2. Rab Ide (or Ada) bar Abin, became, after Mar Jemar’s 
death, president of the academy at Sura, and held this office 








HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. 37 


for about twenty years (432-452). He as well as his pre- 
decessor continued the compilation of the Talmud which Rab 
Ashe had commenced. 

3. Mar bar Rab Ashe, whose surname was Tabyome, and 
who, for some unknown reasons, had been passed over in the 
election of a successor to his father, was finally made president 
of the academy in Sura, and filled this office for thirteen years, 
(455-468). In his frequent discussions with contemporary 
authorities, he exhibits independence of opinion and great 
faculties of mind. 

4. Rab Acha of D1fte, a prominent teacher, was on the point 
of being elected as head of the academy of Sura, but was finally 
defeated by Mar bar Rab Ashe, who aspired to that office which 
his father had so gloriously filled for more than half a century. 

B. The academy of Pumbaditha, which had lost its earlier 
influence, had during this generation successively three presi- 
dents, of whose activity very little is known, namely: 

1. Rafram IT., who succeeded Rab Gebihah, from 433 to 443. 

2. Rab Rechumaz, from 443-456. 

3. Rab Sama b. Rabba, from 456-471. 

Toward the end of this generation, the activity of both 
academies was almost paralyzed by the terrible persecutions 
which the Persian King Firuz instituted against the Jews and 
their religion. 


THE SIXTH AND Last GENERATION OF BABYLONIAN 
AMORAIM (468-500). 


A. Sura. B. Pumbaditha. 
1. Rabba Thospia (or Tosfaah). Rab Jose. 
2. Rabina. 


To the sixth generation of Palestinian Strack adds, (1) 
Samuel b. Jose b. Bune, and to the Babylonian, (1) Ashi; (2) 
Rabban bar Thachlifa; (3) Mar b. Rabbina; (4) Mar Zutra. 
Meremar and Tospha he counts to the seventh generation, 
whilst Mielziner counts them to the sixth.* 





* We refrain from giving our own opinion on the differences between the genera- 
tions of Strack and those of Mielziner; for the reason, we confess, that we do not 
understand why only those named here should be mentioned among the different 
generations, whilst each of them has so many contemporaries named by Halpern in 
his special collection of Tanaim and Amoraim, which takes up a great part in Halakha 


38 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


CHAPTER IV. 


THE CLASSIFICATION OF HALAKHA AND HAGADA IN THE 
CONTENTS OF THE GEMARA. 


The collection of the commentaries and discussions of the 
Amoraim on the Mishna is termed Gemara. (See our Brief 
Introd., Vol. I., of our Edition.) Besides being a discursive 
commentary on the Mishna, the Gemara contains a vast 
amount of more or less valuable material which does not always 
have any close connection with the Mishna text, as legal re- 
ports, historical and biographical information, religious and 
ethical maxims and homiletical remarks. 

The whole subject-matter embodied in the Gemara is 
generally classified into Halakha and Hagada. 

To Halakha * belongs that which has bearing upon the law; 
hence all expositions, discussions and reports which have the 
object of explaining, establishing and determining legal prin- 
ciples and provisions. The principal branches of the Halakha 
are indicated by the names of the six sections of the Mishna, 
named in Chap. IV. of this work. 

The Hagadat comprises everything not having the char- 
acter of Halakha; hence all historical records, all legends and 
parables, all doctrinal and ethical teachings and all free and 
unrestrained interpretations of Scripture. 





as well as in Hagada in both Talmuds and Medrashim. I. H. Weiss’s method is to give 
the particulars of those who have much contributed to the development of the oral 
law; but nevertheless he mentioned many of the great men without particulars. 
Should we say that Mielziner has adopted his method while Strack did not, it would 
also not be correct. There are many whom Weiss speaks of lengthily whilst Miel- 
ziner does not mention them at all and vice versa. The modern scholars like Bacher, 
and others, took the trouble to write particulars of each one mentioned by Strack 
although even they omitted many who are mentioned by Halpern, and therefore we 
hesitate to give our own opinion on this matter. 

* Halakha means custom, usage, practice ; then, an adopted rule, a traditional 
daw. Ina more extended meaning, the term applies to matters bearing upon that 
law. 

+ Hagada or Haggada means that which is related, a tale, a saying, an individual 
utterance which claims no binding authority. Regarding this term, see W. Bacher’s 
learned and exhaustive article, ‘‘ The Origin of the Word Hagada (Agada),” in the 
Jewish Quarterly Review (London), Vol. IV., pp. 406-429. As to fuller particulars 
concerning Halakha and Hagada, see Zunz’s ‘‘G. Vortraege,” pp. 57-61 and 83 sq.; 
also Hamburger’s ‘‘ Real Encyclopadie,” II., the articles Halacha and Agada, also 
above, Vol. I., Chap. V. 











HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. 39 


According to its different contents and character, the 
Hagada may be divided into: 

1. Exegetical Hagada, giving plain or homiletical and alle- 
gorical explanations of biblical passages. 

2. Dogmatical Hagada, treating of God’s attributes and 
providence, of creation, of revelation, of reward and punish- 
- ment, of future life, of Messianic time, etc. 

3. Ethical Hagada, containing aphorisms, maxims, proverbs, 
fables, sayings, intended to teach and illustrate certain moral 
duties. | 

4. Historical Hagada, reporting traditions and legends con- 
cerning the lives of biblical and post-biblical persons or con- 
cerning national and general history. 

5. Mystical Hagada, referring to Cabala, angelology, demon- 
ology, astrology, magical cures, interpretation of dreams, etc. 

6. Miscellaneous Hagada, containing ancedotes, observa- 
tions, practical advice, and occasional references to various 
branches of ancient knowledge and sciences. 

Hagadic passages are often, by the way, interspersed among 
matters of Halakha, as a kind of diversion and recreation after 
the mental exertion of a tiresome investigation or a minute 
discussion on a dry legal subject. Sometimes, however, the 
Hagada appears in larger groups, outweighing the Halakha 
matter with which it is loosely connected. 

Concerning the Palestinian Talmud, its Halakhas and 
Hagadas, see Chap. V. of this volume. However, as an appendix 
we add that which was written by Mielziner about this matter. 

There are two compilations of the Gemara, which differ 
from each other in language as well as in contents; the one 
made in Palestine is called ¥erushalmi, the Jerusalem Gemara 
or Talmud ; the other, originating in Babylonia, is called Bablz, 
the Babylonian Gemara or Talmud. 


CoMPILATION OF JERUSHALMI, THE PALESTINIAN TALMUD. 


As no academy existed in Jerusalem after the destruction 
of the second Temple, the customary appellation Ferusalem 
Talmud is rather a misnomer. More correct is the appellation 
the Palestinian Talmud, or the Gemara of the teachers of the 
West. 


40 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. * 


Maimonides in the introduction to his Mishna commentary 
ascribes the authorship of the Palestinian Talmud to the cele- 
brated teacher R. Jochanan, who flourished in the third cen- 
tury. This statement, if literally taken, cannot be correct, 
since so many of the teachers quoted in that Talmud are known 
to have flourished more than a hundred years after R. Jochanan. 
This celebrated Amora may, at the utmost, have given the first 
impulse to such a collection of commentaries and discussions on 
the Mishna, which was continued and completed by his suc- 
cessors in the academy of Tiberias. In its present shape the 
work is supposed to belong to the fourth or fifth century. Some 
modern scholars assign its final compilation even to a still later 
period; namely, after the close of the Babylonian Talmud.* 

The Palestinian Gemara, as before us, extends only over 
thirty-nine of the sixty-three Masechtoth contained in the 
Mishna, namely all Masechtoth of Seder Zeraim, Seder Moed, 
Nashim and Nezikin, with the exception of Eduyoth and Aboth. 
But it has none of the Masechtoth belonging to Seder Koda- 
shim, and of those belonging to Seder Teharoth it treats only of 
Masecheth Nidda. (See Chap. V., p. 44.) 

Some of its Masechtoth are defective; thus the last four 
Perakim of Sabbath and the last Perek of Maccoth are want- 
ing. Of the ten Perakim belonging to Masecheth Nidda it has 
only the first three Perakim and a few lines of the fourth. 

There are some indications that elder commentators were 
acquainted with portions of the Palestinian Gemara which are 
now missing, and it is very probable that that Gemara origi- 
nally extended to all or, at least, to most of the Masechtoth of 
the Mishna. The loss of the missing Masechtoth and portions 
thereof may be explained partly by the many persecutions 
which interrupted the activity of the Palestinian academies, 
partly by the circumstance that the Palestinian Gemara did 
not command that general attention and veneration which was 
bestowed on the Babylonian Gemara. 





* Critical researches on this subject are found in Geiger’s ‘‘ Jued. Zeitschrift f. 
Wissenschaft,” 1870; Z. Frankel’s ‘‘ Mebo,” p. 46 sq., and in Wiesner’s ‘‘ Gibeath 
Jeruschalaim ” (Vienna, 1872). 

I. H. Weiss (‘‘ Dor Dor,” III., p. 114 sq.) regards R. Jose (bar Zabda), who was 
a colleague of R. Jonah and one of the last authorities in Palestine, as the very com- 
piler of the Pal. Talmud which in the following generation was completed by R. Jose 
bar Bun (Abun). 





HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. 41 
CoMPILATION OF BABLI, THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


The compilation of the Babylonian Talmud is generally 
ascribed to Rab Ashe, who for more than fifty years (375-427), 
officiated as head of the academy in Sura. It is stated that it 
took him about thirty years to collect, sift and arrange the im- 
mense material of this gigantic work. During the remaining 
second half of his activity he revised once more the whole work 
and made in it many corrections.* 

But Rab Ashe did not succeed in finishing the gigantic 
work. It was continued and completed by his disciples and 
successors, especially by the last Amoraim, Rabina II., who 
from 488 to 499 presided over the academy in Sura, and R. 
Jose, the school-head of Pumbaditha. Some additions were 
made by the Saboraim, and even by some still later hands. 

The Gemara of the Babylonian Talmud covers only thirty- 
seven Masechtoth (tracts) of the Mishna, namely: 

Of Zeraim only one, Berachoth, omitting the remaining 
ten Masechtoth ; 

Of Moed eleven, omitting only Shekalim, which in our 
Talmud editions is replaced by the Palestinian Gemara; ft 

Of Nashim all of the seven Masechtoth belonging to that 
division ; 

Of Nezikim eight, omitting Eduyoth and Aboth; { 


* See ibid., Vol. I., p. 21. 

Those scholars who maintain that the Mishna was not written down by R. Jehuda 
Hanasi, but that he merely arranged it orally (see Chap. IV., p. 17), maintain 
the same in regard to Rab Ashe’s compilation of the Gemara, without being able to 
state when and by whom it was actually committed to writing. Against this opinion 
it has been properly argued that it must be regarded as absolutely impossible for a 
work so voluminous, so variegated in contents and so full of minute and intricate dis- 
cussions, as the Talmud, to have been orally arranged and fixed, and accurately 
transmitted from generation to generation. On the strength of this argument and of 
some indications found in the Talmud, Z. Frankel (in his ‘‘ Mebo,” p. 47) even 
regards it as very probable that Rab Ashe in compiling the Gemara made use of some 
minor compilations which existed before him, and of some written records and 
memoranda containing short abstracts of the academical discussions in the preceding 
generations. Collecting and arranging these records, he partly enlarged them by 
fuller explanations, partly left them just as he found them. Some traces of such 
memoranda, made probably by R. Ashe’s predecessors, are still found in numerous 
passages of the Talmud. 

+ In our new edition in Vol. VIII., we supplied a new brief commentary by 
Rodkinson. 

¢ We have placed Aboth de Rabbi Nathan under the Mishna instead of the 
missing Gemara Jurisprudence, Vol. I. (IX.). 





42 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


Of Kodashim nine, omitting Middoth and Kinnim. In 
Thamid only chapters I., II. and IV. are provided with Gemara, 
but not chapters III., V., VI. and VII. 

Of Teharoth only Nidda, omitting eleven Masechtoth. 

There being no traces of the Gemara missing to twenty-six 
Masechtoth, it is very probable that this part of the Gemara 
has never been compiled, though those Masechtoth have un- 
doubtedly also been discussed by the Babylonian Amoraim, as is 
evident from frequent references to them in the Gemara on the 
other Masechtoth. The neglect of compiling these discussions 
may be explained by the circumstance that those Masechtoth 
mostly treat of laws which had no practical application outside 
of Palestine. This is especially the case with the Masechtoth 
of Zeraim, except Berachoth, and those of Teharoth, except 
Nidda. It was different with the Masechtoth belonging to 
Kodashim which, though treating of the sacrificial laws, are 
fully discussed in the Babylonian Talmud, as it was a prevail- 
ing opinion of the Rabbis that the merit of being engaged with 
the study of those laws was tantamount to the actual perform- 
ance of the sacrificial rites. (See Talm. Menachoth, rroa.)* 

The absence of Gemara on the Masechtoth Eduyoth and 
Aboth is easily accounted for by the very nature of their con- 
tents, which admitted of no discussions. 


THE Two GEMARAS COMPARED WITH EACH OTHER. 


The Palestinian and the Babylonian Gemaras differ from 
each other in language and style as well as in material, and in 
the method of treating the same, also in arrangement. 





* This reason appears doubtful to us as, according to the sages, the study of the 
Torah, no matter of which of its branches, is esteemed higher than sacrifices and 
they also were not very much in favor of sacrifices at large, just as little as the old 
prophets. Apart from this we find there lengthy discussions about things which 
have never and could never have existed. We therefore think that the Gemara was 
composed of all the Mishnayoths, and those which are missing were simply lost in 
the course of time. Secondly, discussions to subjects of every Mishna are scat- 
tered in the Talmud, but were not collected, and, indeed, a Rabbi of Ishbitza in 
Poland, Gershon Henich Lener, took the trouble to gather the Gemara belonging to 
the section Purification and publish them in a very voluminous book, in 1836, with 
the approbation of most of the Russian and Polish rabbis. (See particulars of this 
in our Phylacterian Retus, p. 122.) 

+ About this subject we have spoken in the first volume of this work. How- 
ever, we will not omit what was said by Mielziner concerning this matter, as it is 
very reasonable, 








HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. 43 


As regards the language, the Palestinian Gemara is com- 
posed in the West Aramaic dialect which prevailed in Palestine 
at the time of the Amoraim. 

The language of the Babylonian Gemara is a peculiar idiom, 
being a mixture of Hebrew and East Aramaic, with an occa- 
sional sprinkling of Persian words. Quotations from Mishna 
and Boraitha, and sayings of the elder Amoraim are given in 
the original, that is, the New Hebrew (Mishnic) language, 
while forms of judicial and notary documents and popular 
legends of later origin are often given in the Aramaic idiom. 

Although the Palestinian Gemara extends to two more Ma- 
sechtoth than the Babylonian, its total material amounts only 
to about one third of the latter. Its discussions are generally 
very brief and condensed, and do not exhibit that dialectic 
acumen for which the Babylonian Gemara is noted. The 
Hagada in the Palestinian Gemara includes more reliable and 
valuable historical records and references, and is, on the whole, 
more rational and sober, though less attractive than the Baby- 
lonian Hagada, which generally appeals more to the heart and 
imagination. But the latter, on many occasions, indulges too 
much in gross exaggerations, and its popular sayings, especially 
those evidently interpolated by later hands, have often an ad- 
mixture of superstitious views borrowed from the Persian sur- 
roundings. 

The arrangement of the material in the two Talmuds dif- 
fers in this, that in the Babylonian, the Gemara is attached to 
the single paragraphs of the Mishna, while in the Palestinian 
all paragraphs (the retermed Halakhoth), belonging to one 
Perek of the Mishna, are generally placed together at the head 
of each chapter. The comments and discussions of the Gemara 
referring to the successive paragraphs are then marked by the 
headings, Halakha 1, Halakha 2, and so on. 

The two Gemara collections make no direct mention of 
each other as literary works. But the names and opinions of 
the Palestinian authorities are very often quoted in the Baby- 
lonian Gemara; and in a similar way, though not to the same 
extent, the Palestinian Gemara mentions the views of the 
Babylonian authorities. This exchange of opinions was 
effected by the numerous teachers who are known to have em- 
igrated or frequently travelled from the one country to the other. 


* 


44 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


The study of the Babylonian Talmud, having been trans- 
planted from its native soil to North Africa, and the European 
countries (especially Spain, France, Germany and Poland), was 
there most sedulously and religiously cultivated in the Jewish 
communities, and gave rise to an immense Rabbinical litera- 
ture. The Palestinian Talmud never enjoyed such general 
veneration and attention. Eminent Rabbis alone were 
thoroughly conversant with its contents, and referred to it 
in their writings. It is only in modern times that Jewish 
scholars have come to devote more attention to this Talmud, 
for the purpose of historical and literary investigations. 


CHAPTER V. 
APOCRYPHAL APPENDICES TO THE TALMUD AND COMMENTARIES. 


Besides the Masechtoth contained in the Mishna and the 
two Gemaras, there are several Masechtoth composed in the 
form of the Mishna and Tosephta, that treat of ethical, ritual, 
and liturgical precepts. They stand in the same relation to 
‘the Talmud as the Apocrypha to the canonical books of the 
Bible. When and by whom they were composed cannot be 
ascertained. Of these apocryphal treatises, the following are 
appended to our editions of the Talmud: 

1. Aboth d’ Rabbi Nathan,* divided into forty-one chapters 
and a kind of Tosephta to the Mishnic treatise ‘‘ Pirke Aboth,”’ 
the ethical sentences of which are here considerably enlarged 
and illustrated by numerous narratives. In its present shape, 
it belongs to the post-Talmudic period, though some elements 
of a Boraitha of R. Nathan (who was a Tana belonging to the 
fourth generation) may have been embodied therein. t 

2. Sopherim (the Scribes), containing, in twenty-one chap- 
ters, rules for the writing of the scrolls of the Pentateuch, and 





* In our new edition it is translated in Vol. I. (IX.) and divided into paragraphs 
to each Mishna of Aboth. 

4 Compare Zunz, ‘‘Gottesd. Vortraege,” p. 108, sq.—Solomon Taussig pub- 
lished in his ‘* Neve Sholom”’ (Munich, 1872), from a manuscript of the Library in 
Munich, a recension of the Aboth d’Rabbi Nathan which differs considerably from 
that printed in our Talmud editions. The latest edition of Aboth d. R. N. in two 
recensions from MSS. with critical annotations was published by S. Schechter 
(Vienna, 1887). 





HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. 45 


of the book of Esther; also Masoretic rules, and liturgical rules 
for the service on Sabbath, Feast and Fast days. R. Asher 
already expressed (in his Hilchoth Sepher Thora) the opinion 
that this Masecheth Sopherim belongs to the period of the 
Gaonim.* 

3. Ebel Rabbathi (the large treatise on Mourning),f eu- 
phemistically called Semachoth (Joys), is divided into fourteen 
chapters, and treats, as indicated by the title, of rules and cus- 
toms concerning burial and mourning. It is not identical with 
a treatise under the same title, quoted already in the Talmud 
(Moed Katon, 24a, 26a; Kethuboth, 28a), but seems to be 
rather a reproduction of the same with later additions.t 

4. Callah (the bride, the woman recently married). This 
minor Masechta, being likewise a reproduction of a Masechta 
by that name, mentioned already in the Talmud (Sabbath, 
114a; Taanith, rob; Kiddushin, 49b; Jer. Berachoth, II., 5), 
treats in one chapter of the duties of chastity in marriage, and 
in general. 

5. Derech Eretz § (the conduct of life), divided into eleven 
chapters, the first of which treats of prohibited marriages, and 
the remaining chapters, of ethical, social and religious teach- 
ings. References to a treatise by that name are made already 
in the Talmud (B. Berachoth, 22a, and Jer. Sabbath, VI., 2). 

6. Derech Eretz Zuta (the conduct of life, minor treatise), 
containing ten chapters, replete with rules and maxims of 
wisdom. || 

7. Perek Ha-shalom (chapter on Peace) consists, as already 
indicated by the title, only of one chapter, treating of the im- 
portance of peacefulness. 

~ Remark: Besides these apocryphal treatises appended to 





* See Zunz, GD. V., p. 95, sq. The latest separate edition of Masecheth 
Sopherim from a MS. and with a German commentary was published by Joel Mueller 
{Leipsic, 1878). 

+ Translated by us in Vol. VIII. with a brief commentary by Rodkinson. 

¢ See Zunz, G. V., p. go, and N. Brill ‘‘ Die Talm. Tractate titber Trauer um 
Verstorbene” (Jahrbiicher fiir Jiid. Geschichte und Literatur, I., Frankfurt a. M.), 
p. 1-57. M. Klotz published ‘‘ Der Talm. Tractat Ebel Rabbathi nach Hand- 
schriften bearbeitet, tiberzetzt und mit Anmerkungen versehen,” Frankf. on the 
Main, 1892. 

§ Also these three are translated in Vol. I. (IX.) of our new edition. 

| On both of these Masechtoth Derech Eretz, see Zunz, GD. V., pp. 110-112. 
See also Abr. Tawrogi, ‘‘ Der Talm. Tractat Derech Erez Sutta Kritisch bearbeitet, 
iibersetzt und erlautert” (Berlin, 1885). 


46 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


our editions of the Talmud under the general title of “‘ Minor 
Treatises,’ there are seven lesser Masechtoth which were pub- 
lished by Raphael Kirchheim from an ancient manuscript. 
(Frankfort on the Main, 1851.) 


COMMENTARIES. 
The Necessity for such Commentaries. 


The Talmud offers to its students great difficulties, partly 
on account of the peculiar idiom in which it is written, and 
which is intermixed with so numerous, often very mutilated, 
foreign words; partly on account of the extreme brevity and 
succinctness of its style, the frequent use of technical terms 
and phrases, and mere allusions to matters discussed elsewhere ; 
partly also on account of the circumstance that, in consequence 
of elliptical expressions, and in the absence of all punctuation 
marks, question and answer, in the most intricate discussions, 
are sometimes so closely interwoven that it is not easy to dis- 
cern at once where the one ends and the other begins. To 
meet all these difficulties, which are often very perplexing, 
numerous commentaries have been written by distinguished 
Rabbis. Some of the commentaries extend to the whole Tal- 
mud, or a great portion thereof; others exclusively to the 
Mishna, or some of its sections. 

Up to date new commentaries upon commentaries appear, 
so that in the last edition printed in Vilna, more than a hun- 
dred additional commentaries are given (an illustration of 
_ which we give at the end of this chapter). We therefore do 
not care to point them out. Moreover they all are commen- 
taries to the text which do not belong to our new edition. 
However, the commentaries exclusively on the Mishna we deem 
to be interesting for some readers and therefore do not omit 
them. 


Commentaries Exclusively on the Mishna. 


1. The first to write a commentary on the whole Mishna was 
Moses Maimonides (XII. century). He commenced it in the 
twenty-third year of his age, in Spain, and finished it in his thir- 
tieth year,in Egypt. This commentary was written in Arabic, 
manuscripts of which are to be found in the Bodleian Library 





HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. 47 


at Oxford, and in some other libraries. From the Arabic it 
was translated into Hebrew by several scholars, flourishing in 
the XIII. century; namely, Seder Zeraim, by Jehuda Charizi; 
Seder Moed, by Joseph Ibn Alfual; Seder Nashim, by Jacob 
Achsai (or Abbasi*); Seder Nezikin, by Solomon b. Joseph, 
with the exception of Perek Chelek in Sanhedrin and Masecheth 
Aboth, including the ethical treatise Sh’mone Perakim, intro- 
ducing the latter, which were translated by Samuel Ibn Tib- 
bon; Seder Kodashim, by Nathanel Ibn Almuli; the trans- 
lator of Seder Teharoth is not known. These translations are 
appended to all Talmud editions, after each Masechta, under 
the heading of Commentary of Maimonides. 

The characteristic feature of this commentary of Maimon- 
ides consists in this, that it follows the analytical method, lay- 
ing down at the beginning of each section the principles and 
general views of the subject, and thereby throwing light upon 
the particulars to be explained, while Rashi in his Talmud com- 
mentary adopted the synthetical method, commencing with the 
explanation of the particulars, and thereby leading to a clear 
understanding of the whole of the subject-matter. 

2. Several distinguished Rabbis wrote commentaries on 
single sections of the Mishna, especially on those Masechtoth to 
which no Babylonian Gemara (and hence no Rashi) exists. 
Of these commentaries the following are found in our’Talmud 
editions: 

(a) Rasht’s Commentary on all Masechtoth of Seder Zeraim, 
except Berachoth, and all Masechtoth of Seder Teharoth, ex- 
cept Nidda, by R. Simson of Sens (XII. century), the cele- 
brated Tosaphist. 

(b) Ashert’s Commentary on the same Masechtoth, by R. 
Asher b. Yechiel (XIII. century), the author of the epitome 
of the Talmud which is appended to all Masechtoth. 

(c) Rashi’s Commentary on Masecheth Middoth, by R. 
Shemaya, who is supposed to have been a disciple of Rashi. 

(d) Rabad’s Commentary on Masecheth Eduyoth, by R. 
Abraham b. David (XII. century), the celebrated author of 
critical annotations on Maimonides’ Talmudical code. 

(e) Commentary on the Masechtoth Kinnim and Tamid by 
an anonymous author. 





* See Graetz, ‘‘ Geschichte d. J.”, Vol. VII. p. 302. 


48 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


3. R. Obadya of Bertinoro in Italy, and Rabbi in Jerusalem 

(d. in the year 1510), wrote a very lucid commentary on the 
whole Mishna, which accompanies the text in most of our sep- 
arate Mishna editions. He follows the analytic method of 
Rashi, and adds to each paragraph of the Mishna the result 
of the discussion of the Gemara. 
- 4, Additions of Yom Tob. Additional comments by Yom 
Tob Lipman Heller, Rabbi of Prague and Cracow (XVII. cen- 
, tury). These comments, likewise extending to all parts of 
the Mishna, and accompanying its text on the opposite side 
of Bartinoro’s commentary in most of our Mishna editions, 
contain very valuable explanations and critical remarks. 

5. Of shorter commentaries to be found only in some special 
editions of the Mishna text the following may be mentioned: 

(a) Tree of Life, by Facob Chagiz, Rabbi in Jerusalem (XVII. 
century), the author of a Talmudical terminology, Techilath 
Chochma. 

6. Full Spoon of Delight, by Senior Phoebus (XVIII. cen- 
tury). This commentary is an abstract of Bertinoro’s and 
Yom Tob Lipman Heller’s commentaries. 

(b) Spoon of Delight, by Isaac Ibn Gabbai in Leghorn 
(XVII. century), is generally based on the commentaries of 
Rashi and Maimonides.* 

‘“‘ Tefereth Israel’’ to all Mishnayoth, by Israel sy aaa 
a very reasonable commentary. 


CHAPTER VI. 


EPITOMES, CODIFICATIONS, MANUSCRIPTS AND PRINTED 
EDITIONS OF THE TALMUD. 


INTRODUCTORY. 


Since the Babylonian Talmud was considered by most of 
the Jewish communities in all countries as the source of the rab- 
binical law by which to regulate the religious life, it is but 
natural that already at a comparatively early period attempts 
were made to furnish abstracts of the same for practical pur- 





* The commentaries of the Palestinian Talmud we omit, but not the Epitomes,. 
etc., which seem to us of interest for the reader. 








Smmowns veotimy mem mer wos. 


2 PAPSOS IN Sy prada Now wn Yen minson.b> Sy eeuwyns ow 


(?"=2") PIOY Spy? emo nvm ownn [i3]-(ee 

«(2 bfED When pro eien) So 

arns by 5% ype VOI me owrn (2) (2 

opis IND FW JI neo | pop mAbeny 

oer. Yr pours Sew? evan usp oerin: (ay 
nese by Seay Pan 

Sood am) 5 por warn Dy e'ane ownn {45} fer 
+ (035 Bop 

sysop pe 5" DY MYiD p’enp own (37 
« ("1 31D ohn PME, N's) 


NII NESS BNA wath by DNB TAY Cw} 


2 (33290 O’rows) SMF 
om pypoNaD Nor AONNANT pe’. cwnn (AP 
2 « (200, Mp. p’noDs) 
ro) >" DYOINT. S payne em ownn (iy 
- "(Sor epp yn > 
sump Yr EMORY DY Op ef ownn [2] (tp 
« (‘01 opi fbn p*nensy 
ent) 3 3° piann nimse fond PIT (2) (ne 
« (pnonp pron p’nees) 9" 93¥ OMT M3 
poem $" DON e'md IN MDD (72) (ev 
bows Sp pion sain ppcin op) . (‘101 jorhd doen p’pons) 
» (wnhp't D7 pes 
woe mosond Mr ayy by p’sno ownn [>] (e 
(ven Yon abn) pevdy snp aes 
arpbar pak 9 YT WT DY p’np ownn (RE 
a (12) JON PE NODS) 
$ WIN YD PN eb ONT ID [7] (29 
x’ wane Sy myn Dns (of ppp pie n’ons) on p13 
+ (17933 eevee Pinzon 2399 Sy p10 OND ev) npr wr 
worn xpoyow danny o's es men [79] (2 
+ DRY P/N 
838 ID Ob “ee noun Sy man 5g aig (= 
+ (o7" pron Bit n’ons) Sr 
Wr Dy) ome mm MPT Iyer [2] (re 
« (O/B ‘NPY ofnDe9) 
meme 9" Nb TT etn Sy yin (3) (00 
«(01 F771 932 EVI Sv Insp Syd) fOr” 
mein, Y/Y DIT werd PNET (2) (12 
a abun 9! pws TAT. phn 4330 
wD, RED NIM FON o’mp ovina (79) (ne 
«(er PrP HAC n’ovd) $’r 


pre ASA "WN dM nD Ma NRo0d- Neu [2] (be b 


(th p27 o’neys) sew 

Sp va) voy pax 9 FINQY? p’snD own [v9] (2 
+ (8 8H 832 N30 

qron> Sw DY etm oy oY maNde [72] (oe 
« (A21 S1p OY Pep o’nons) “exp pron 5” 

are p’1ax 5" Spay }2 aNt d”and FPAN 2 [v2] (28 

yr pr 9 ASN IN Yano oenn (ax 
« (Popp PbS O’nOY3) 


p’ze 9” 997 DIY pms* bin oenn [>] (73. 


« (ow $9 PS n’oys). jepyo 
aoa 4" bn TVS MON) o’ane oer [¥>] (rz 
«(9M 37 PE, w’oys) 
oy ans ONoya etm) np 
9123 th? ofnen>) aad p"D ae 
PTT Yr me yd eYmD wenn Jes) (nx 
+ pore pan xi oioy 
akon pe esc woe FY plans BOY SND (2) (ne 
om Ps on “by EY DN AY (ex 
Sin Ye MD Spy e'and mie ao S55 
webe jon maby ets moby pon i @ 
. « nab pd wD 
wrote poy’ Sv) AN Bb OND BY (>) (up 
aisdnd bo" Shia . (“or o%6 dip p*nons) pods pase 
W'TTED RAED | NID: BIphy -Crerhind , whey 
pot one) mow hn: oer Amen oy , 1 pbe1 
Tord snsenys np Man cnn) + pbery> 433 nebn 
6 (Sup ov one 9% pong o> Btmd now mans 
Pitan Menae nvrzin mio mes Sd OWI [2] (2p 
vin os nrenn “pn , ee 
PSV PP ,O'WN PND) , MEOW Pod --P 
,0”wa 20 932 wD wanes mde Soe | EAA 
smn Sma Yy mn o”e3 pan sun 


mayo 


+} (YOM HOD NEED) >" NOE TNT OY OMT eae (30 


Opa pmo or sre) wm ose Me by poy (2 


TWD: [%9] (18 


J aad ren ‘605 Sr ene Beri AY. (9) (79, 
] 7058) YI TI peed NUT ND (72). (10 


o(¥29 paws proze Sy onde prblnp n'res) Sadr ny aie 
“20 sewssee , pon px ("ers) mote mean (2 
| atten noes ‘a mann e'n ‘os py spay o"eT ED 
apoapamgnsy ‘ond wien Synge wyni-2) (9 
ABW 33 OW Ma LPI ore hn MED (nd 
ona bya op Sy new mows snes opin "yp 
“wien pm Nan muni) ¢ 
+ masep minsep Spr 3" by, OY Mg ‘oe pvwn (15 
SOP TID OND INS OOo IT MIND ee peur. (nb 
‘IT e"and wren by men, eyow maNDN (0 
(0t9 pon o*nse9) (pena) Ye ANIMAS Oso 
+ (mnzdnn ADs wae ’p2 Sy YAITAA 735D) 
"993-md sy ton xow aby ‘ond PON POD (v2) (2 
[.. ASp Sp ye "> ‘orn ‘pops “mswxD nde D”en MD 
waa warns? ‘DY SPOBS NNW" MNMON3.{%2) (xo 
mbp Sy yes yw 


RNY TPIS Ot TNF "and oop oDo AY }>p"" (30 


a misep minsohn 3”Nd 

sos sana 8/5 MAD MON [2] (70 
p> oxpn |, Dope nom oy 

sors mga 13D) pene no nmwnd N/A ATI (ro 
+ (M3 OET3e yop> 

won 3% amin pan} 03 ndond mean OM ON (10 
+ (9719" "p'b p’nons) orsxdon 2’ 5”: Say 

ASP VY? ‘oo op 'owd wien “es OPN MAT (1 

porary nabne ope ’oo by pI Pon “ee (ne 
Ab? 2>36 rnp) axbpern pa 5" ons Say) nano 
eatin noon) 5” xan nian oy 

PUTT ofan, een Sy nan 3/435 Pd) [2] (ee 
nas Sy “wersri ade) are plan 5's 23 

+ (mnooen ROS WOW 

DOW av nxn , jms 37 mae Sy YY PID wo (3 

2 bt word pre pra ve POND 

Spy? a nwo , mubp minsend By mony wo (xs 
2S’ auzpna 193.9’3 (3DN") 

Seow or /OrwA NOD , EYE Py (> 
2 om wba tps aii ~.ope ‘ond abo ” 


by worn, . (erp 27 ofnens) sabes 5") yy 

« Pano ow Aran hap ows pda 

ermow nod DIM 35 (>) 

g noon Mos own Sy why mde 

Pyspp news xan, Ayn ‘ond POP ws (2) 

o> ys xd wine, ows wD 

DY B%snd | mos nop by “SPT Yr WN (2 

Mp epi) IW ne O’DayS Stren 12 POUND 

: + (db: cips o’c3 E’A2 pep pda Sy 

mata enn ay | Sway NAAN WD ee (13 
«Poa p"13x5"to513 93 pny a3 YET nnd mR 

Sh Seiya mig ove oem , m3 MYSN (me 
: <(’'p2en 3S 19173) 

$1 8D PTI wim own ,OYN OD (C2 
+ (£7 " D*nOD3) 

rece) pIDI9 OMe’, Ndr. (e 
= (29> YE) 3°29 

yer rp M3 ran2oe mma ‘ooh MW MYT ["2) (xo 
2 17D7 nsy AR's's'n DIT MI0DA Wa by 

sens p93 5’ onan Y’2 FY’ win [2] (20 
+ (Rend poADP o*noDs) 

pyrin ‘om overpaid, 9” Saha JMa e'm mn (2% 
© (M3 pr NEED} 

eNO Tapa pow ‘ond 4H) N/T ND [2] (7 


1 


(73 


(73 





om AT Sy wens mH 


prrsisehpen $’rons Bsn mabn wen Sapte (nitne 
“s9'R3 wana xdw win bo 130 Sra pom bt Sonn oy 
“Sptg 7'2 aM B” an |, 113 ‘00 MWD TM wo. (10 
+ prorph Ye 
pep pan 9" pen Sper bone (n> 





32 Aahee BYan rrehn Se pi arya pryp Thm ‘onhy 


.| T32 }_I3 13 WeYH!W OMIwM MON 





« (POND We C’noys) 


ANID (2 -REpES Swe MIT YIN Mx NERA “PAY my “y, Sebo Ma oPIe A”D51. wor noe) 
MEDINS AITO YNS(A aw Mop oso now? mens nie (4. ea o's anon be DYPION WF (2 sme noond o’son “eves 


atm Ss Sp w oven oes wens onp noe 
Spies ase — mpdym— nai mb> nsoD 
+ Of%va spo S22 nop Sy am ane mixnoust 
CY, .9p2n> Sy3 YS nn JAIN OTEK O32 M93 nhs) 
(]P3 73 CHSys +p fp nh} D469, pep dom PI PIDID 
EN Fan we MAzeD ESD} mump mnsco 
« (6/99 ess v*sDe3 wpm.23 shin), Aya AMD 
+ mer mun BPD" MND “DN 
» otpe maces 335 MDI MOL MINMOU 
ener nes DPT ATM 
OME M2cE2 PINT MNMOY 0 
HTN? PYTT MAD TeoD oma ond NIN NMOW (r 
“man mop vy pnp oy 4" 
sme MD Ara |b PRINT II ee (A 
Wi63 sho 39 nh) 5” JOY 53 (ms)OOIS — @ 
Psy | AIw , maz n2005 , 9’ $e yom 
+ (nada Shys nnn ors fon) 
3 wore 22) 9 Sewn Spoon a3 — 8 (* 
2 Ofen wend | (G9 
PUT AND FNP AD OWN 39 — 10 
sno 525) wana x39 nazn ond (ra M907 39) 
.onst 3235p owsp 
«Mwy mine By , max nsond My - (38 
2O"D np , "BHT 25 ‘ond “pyip’swa— 
WD" Naw mime dipia py opraxde . Mop dp 
w"D> Iwas Hk “Dp yes ODT OETA RW S321 
2” EO BD AID Oo” awIn “Dd mys 
3p ‘on* (nino Ses ofmo)-5% NO SPAT NIT e OP 
(Purse $93 79h)’ STD OATS 1S (2 
TDM Dp ne 
B ompe yp) renp ‘oud , 9 IOI 9 MBDIN (7) (1 
}93 63 Pimp %3 "> , op > of» $36 MoD nN 
«(Po 19 Se yendp O° Ado npMDY RMD IO 
poy ‘ond , S's (ersewrs) PaXwopwow Wd " (r 
mds won. Disarnae prs | omno3 nao arbend 
«4 axbo pon» 
enmno‘end , sn PNY WA DOW (>) (i 
«mba Poon) OY MBO (*) (& 
D's pps wien 3 ‘ond pe ya) (2 
Jh3 93 A aN NORS A er amo M9 fond 
7 THD Wao HEIIN obik (oMAsne DD phn nome) 9% 
23 DOUA Wwe eYos AA; , A211 wOD son B3 
PMrio) POD 
67/1 AND ows wpa “en ows opis $’s5 erven 
jE BOD PTY 37D 1 PMY WII" (%2] (wa 
. Oya TD Arwnd 
nnswep 9’? RDI PO°I3 BTW IV (2) (29 
ope ‘ond | (plo Soc Sys Sc 13) aa 3701 
food , ft INITIO (oF) PND PDI" (2) (29 
mone ory23 
RISE, NF Wd IMIS Oy win’ pp (= 
o5'an ap"p sopra maar oy23 ‘ondiaSn , ona 
oman fond | PS TNVIO TON IY IT" (no 
NW MT PY 9 AKS F™ PDN [2] (w 
«pera ‘ood; mains ‘ond (5! pea yer 9) 
Se inas ems xem, mp3 ond ‘NPD IN DIN [*) ( 
¥+ fn “Nd1 3N29 Sw Yoo hw + 4" bb he 
Jae war san 2105" epe and mos enn, Yo 
J pp"o"o x” enm.onsnd ney e217" jors An an 
Tpys jer oa nme znsend 5s pyar fp [>] (m 
(exp > o5D3 rip Own Mr homed: enn Se ono 
«(26789 “Bp obs Cone pp)ran “ood 5” WN ‘DIN (eo 
enmm ren oyp nsoed EY NAM wD (6 
oma n3ce 5) wee SEDI (>) (> 
PEIN ORES wy) MSIPO AY (2) (2 
p> Tomowrp wo $25 $4 owes wim mean nyop 
N3D% (ONT Mw 9D N30 MOO ABI (Php ‘ond 
own ep 533 Men ow Sporty snxnesesn anna 
¥1 frre . 9° Ovz1s Aine we o’ro yrds p”on Pry) 
spn nwnex pixdes pyian : ¥o1 poz} pom 3p ooo 
«Yop Ob wD wes prsy wot tn | 15 ene wD "es 


PNY rece nvr (315 EDIT O83 


i« 


G 
Qa 
(r 
( 


moon by 


pmyay mppmor npn nbbioar as Aman ia mao mas 55 Syn 
4 Seen wns pid wom mo tee 5’ pray apy o"sn Sy ot eva ew sd eon wend os. oerzta brs nea oY) op NA opie omcor mow munon Mp 
233 WISN wo we wn ex METER wan cys Son, eYe erys ey Oe ARN ENE ANP ANeT yo. ARE Pow $30 nips Erand mn ow 
eer5 oviaond Ann Apnea nash , man nab Oem mes uksw. ne ma nM jOTEDRS NBRID ARTI 





wn wb We gnseT more 9’sry oho ouDeTw jAMaTT we penn otemen Yin we Dew} (oom) wba ed mer pe “ay 


ILLUSTRATION OF THE NAMES OF THE 103 ADDITIONAL COMMENTARIES. 








as ‘ 
: > A 






























HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. 49 


poses. This was done partly by epitomes or compendiums 
which, retaining the general arrangement and divisions of the 
Talmud, bring its matter into a narrower compass by omitting 
its Hagadic and unnecessary passages, and abridging the legal 
discussions; and partly by codes in which the results of the 
discussed legal matter is presented in a more systematic order. 
The first attempts in this direction were made by R. Jehudai 
Gaon of Sura (VIII. century), in his book Halachoth Ketuoth 
(Abridged Halakhoth), and by R. Simon of Kahira (—IX. 
century) in his Halachoth Gedoloth. Both of these two works, 
which afterwards coalesced into one work, still extant under 
the latter title, were, however, eclipsed by later master works 
of other celebrated Rabbinical authorities. 


A. EPITOMEs. 


The principal epitomes or compendiums of the Talmud are 
by the following authors: 

1. R. Isaac Alfasi (after the initials, called ‘‘ Rif,’ born in 
1013 near the city of Fez in Africa, died in 1103 as Rabbi at 
Lucena in Spain) wrote an excellent compendium, which he 
called ‘‘ Halakhoth,” but which is usually called by the name 
of its author, Alpassy. In this compendium he retains the 
general arrangement, the language and style of the Talmud, 
but omits, besides the Hagada, all parts and passages which 
concern laws that had become obsolete since the destruction of 
the Temple. Besides, he condensed the lengthy discussions, 
and added his own decision in cases not clearly decided in 
the Talmud. 


REMARK.—Alfasi’s compendium comprises in print three large folio volumes in 
which the text is accompanied by Rashi’s Talmud commentary, and besides by 
numerous commentaries, annotations and glosses, especially those by R. Nissim b. 
Reuben (j/4); by R. Zerachia Halevi (Maor); by R. Mordecai b. Hillel; by R. 
Joseph Chabiba (Nimuke Joseph), and by some other distinguished Rabbis. 


2. R. Asher b. Fechiel, a German Rabbi, later in Toledo, 
Spain, where he died in 1327, wrote a compendium after the 
pattern of that of Alfasi and embodied in the same also the 
opinions of later authorities. This compendium is appended 
in our Talmud editions to each Masechta, under the title of the 
author, Rabbennu Asher. 

4 


50 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


R. Jacob, the celebrated son of this author, added to that 
compendium an abstract of the decisions contained in the same, 
The Extract of Asher’s Decisions. 


B. CopEs. 


1. Mishne Torah, “‘ Repetition of the Law,’’ by R. Moses 
Maimonides, flourishing in the XII. century. This is the most 
comprehensive and systematically arranged Code of all the 
Laws scattered through the two Talmuds, or resulting from 
the discussions in the same. Occasionally also the opinions of 
the post-Talmudic authorities, the Gaonim, are added. 

This gigantic work, written throughout in Mishnic Hebrew 
in a very lucid and attractive style, is divided into fourteen 
books; hence its additional name, Sepher Ha-yad (having the 
numerical value of 14), and by way of distinction, it was later 
called “Yad Hachazaka,”’ The Strong Hand. Every book is, 
according to the various subjects treated therein, divided into 
Halakhoth, the special names of which are given at the head of 
each of those fourteen books. The Halakhoth are again sub- 
divided into chapters (Perakim), and these into paragraphs. 

2. Sephar Mitzvath Godol (abbreviated S. M. G.), the great 
Law book, by the Tosaphist R. Moses of Coucy, in France 
(XIII. century). This work arranges the Talmudical law 
according to the 613 precepts which the Rabbis found to 
be contained in the Pentateuch, and is divided into 248 
positive and 365 negative commandments. 


REMARK.—A similar work, but ona smaller scale, is ‘‘ Sephar Mitzvath Gaton,” 
also called ‘‘ Amude Golah,” by R. Isaac b. Joseph, of Corbeil (d. 1280). 


3. Turi (the Rows of Laws), by R. F¥acob, son of that 
celebrated R. Asher b. Jechiel who was mentioned above. 
The work is divided into four parts, called: Tur Orach Chayim, 
treating of Liturgical Laws; Tur Yore Dea, treating of the 
Ritual Laws; Tur Eben Ha-ezer, on the Marriage Laws, and 
Tur Choshen Mishpat, on the Civil Laws. Each of these four 
books is subdivided according to subjects under appropriate 
headings, and into chapters, called Simanim. This code differs 
from that of Maimonides in so far as it is restricted to such laws 
only which were still in use outside of Palestine, and as it em- 
bodies also rules and customs which were established after the 








HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. | 51 


close of the Talmud. Besides, it is not written in that uniform 
and pure language, and in that lucid style, by which the work 
of Maimonides is characterized. 

4. Shulchan Aruch (The Prepared Table), by R. Yoseph 
Karo (XVI. century), the same author who wrote the commen- 
taries on the codes of Maimonides and of R. Jacob b. Asher. 
Taking the last-mentioned code (Turim) and his own commen- 
tary on the same as basis, and retaining its division into four 
parts as well as that into subjects and chapters, he subdivided 
each chapter (Siman), into paragraphs, and so remodelled its 
contents as to give it the proper shape and style of a law book. 
This Shulchan Aruch, together with the numerous annotations 
added to it by the contemporary R. Moses Isserles, was up to 
our time regarded by all rabbinical Jews as the authoritative 
code by which all questions of the religious life were decided. 

Constant reference to the four Codes mentioned above are 
made in the marginal glosses which are found on every page of 
the Talmud, under the heading of ‘‘ En Mishpat, Ner Mitzwah.”’ 
It is the object of these glosses to show, at every instance when 
a law is quoted or discussed in the Talmud, where the final 
decision of that law is to be found in the various codes. The 
authorship of these marginal glosses is ascribed to R. Joshua 
Boas Baruch (XVI. century). The same scholar wrote also 
the glosses headed Torah Or which are found in the space 
between the Talmud text and Rashi’s commentary, and which 
indicate the books and chapters of the biblical passages quoted 
in the Talmud, besides the very important glosses in the mar- 
gins of the pages, headed Massoreth Ha-shas, which give 
references to parallel passages in the Talmud. The last men- 
tioned glosses were later increased with critical notes by Isaiah 
Berlin (Pik), Rabbi in Breslau (d. 1799). 


C. COLLECTIONS OF THE HAGADIC PORTIONS OF THE TALMUD. 


While the above-mentioned Compendiums and Codes are 
restricted to abstracting only the legal matter (Halakha) of 
the Talmud, R. Facob ibn Chabib, flourishing at the beginning 
of the sixteenth century, collected all the Hagadic passages, 
especially of the Babylonian Talmud. This very popular col- 
lection, which is usually printed with various commentaries, 


52 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


has the title of En Facob; in some editions it is also called En 
Israel. 

R. Samuel Fafe, flourishing in the latter part of that cen- 
tury, made a similar collection of the Hagadic passages of the 
Palestinian Talmud, with an extensive commentary under the 
title of Y’phe Mareh (Vienna, 1590, and Berlin, 1725-26). 
An abridged edition with a short commentary was published 
under the title of Benyan Ferusalem (Lemberg, 1860). 


D. MANUSCRIPTS. 


In consequence of the terrible persecutions of the Jews 
during the middle ages, and the destruction of their libraries, 
so often connected therewith, and especially in consequence of 
the vandalism repeatedly perpetrated by the Church against 
the Talmud,* only a very limited number of manuscripts of the 
same have come down to our time. Codices of single Sedarim 
(sections) and Masechtoth (tracts or treatises) are to be found in 
various libraries of Europe, especially in the Vatican Library of 
Rome, and in the libraries of Parma, Leyden, Paris, Oxford, 
Cambridge, Munich, Berlin and Hamburg. The only known 
complete manuscript of the Babylonian Talmud, written in 
the year 1369, is in possession of the Royal Library of Munich. 
A fragment of Talmud Pesachim, of the ninth or tenth century, 
is preserved in the University Library of Cambridge, and was 
edited with an autotype facsimile, by W. H. Lowe, Cambridge, 
1879. 

The Columbia College in the city of New York lately ac- 
quired a collection of manuscripts containing the treatises 
Pesachim, Moed Katon, Megilla and Zebaehim of the Babylonian 
Talmud. These manuscripts came from Southern Arabia, and 
date from the year 1548.T 





* It is stated that at the notorious auto-da-fe of the Talmud, held in the year 
1249, at Paris, twenty-four cart-loads of Talmud tomes were consigned to the flames. 
Similar destructions of the Talmud were executed by the order of Pope Julius III., in 
the year 1553, first at Rome, then at Bologna and Venice, and in the following year 
in Ancona and other cities. Among the 12,000 tomes of the Talmud that were 
burned at Cremona, in the year 1559 (see Graetz’s ‘‘ Geschichte d. Juden,” X., p. 382), 
were undoubtedly also numerous manuscripts, though most of them may have been 
printed copies. 

+ See Max L. Margolis’s ‘‘ The Columbia College MS. of Meghilla Examined,” 
New York, 1892. 








as - > . 


HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. 53 


Manuscripts of the Mzshna or of single Sedarim thereof, 
some of which dating from the thirteenth century are preserved 
in the libraries of Parma, of Berlin, of Hamburg, of Oxford, and 
of Cambridge. That of the last-mentioned library was edited 
by W. H. Lowe: “The Mishna on which the Palestinian Tal- 
mud Rests,’ etc., Cambridge, 1883. 

Of the Palestinian Talmud the only manuscript, of con- 
siderable extent, is preserved in the Library of Leyden. See 
S. M. Schiller-Szinessy, “‘ Description of the Leyden MS. of the 
Palestinian Talmud,” Cambridge, 1878. Fragments of the 
Palestinian Talmud are also to be found in some other libraries, 
especially in those of Oxford and Parma. 

Fuller information concerning MSS. of the Talmud is given 
in F. Lebrecht’s “‘ Handschriften und erste Ausgaben des Baby]. 
Talmud,” Berlin, 1862. See also M. Steinschneider’s ‘‘ He- 
braische Bibliographie,’’ Berlin, 1862 and 1863. 


E. THe TALMUD IN PRINT. 
a. The Mishna Editions. 


Already as early as the year 1492, the first edition of the 
Mishna, together with the commentary of Maimonides, ap- 
pearedin Naples. It was followed by several editions of Venice 
(1546-50, and 1606), of Riva di Trento (1559), and of Mantua 
(1559-63). In the last-mentioned editions the commentary 
of Obadia di Bertinoro is added. The editions which have 
since appeared are very numerous. Those which appeared 
since the seventeenth century are generally accompanied, be- 
sides Bertinoro’s commentary, by Lipman Heller’s or some 
other shorter commentaries. 


b. The Babyloman Talmud. 


The first complete edition of the Babylonian Talmud was 
published by Daniel Bomberg in twelve folio volumes, Venice, 
1520-23. Besides the text, it contains the commentary of 
Rashi, the Tosephoth, the Piske-Tosephoth, the compendium 
of Asheri, and the Mishna commentary of Maimonides. This 
original edition served as model for all editions which subse- 


54 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


quently appeared at Venice, Basel, Cracow, Lublin, Amster- 
dam, Frankfort-on-the-Oder, Berlin, Frankfort-on-the-Main, 
Sulzbach, Dyhernfurt, Prague, Warsaw, Lemberg, and re- 
cently at Vienna and Wilna. The later editions were greatly 
improved by the addition of valuable literary and critical 
marginal notes and appendices by learned rabbis. But the 
Basel and most of the subsequent editions, down almost to the 
present time, have been much mutilated by the official censors 
of the press, who expunged from the Talmud all those passages 
which, in their opinion, seemed to reflect upon Christianity, 
and, besides, changed expressions, especially names of nations 
and of sects, which they suspected as having reference to 
Christians. 

The Amsterdam editions, especially the first (1644-48), es- 
caped those mutilations at the hand of the censors, and are on 
this account considered very valuable. Most of the passages 
which have elsewhere been eliminated or altered by the cen- 
sors have been extracted from the Amsterdam edition, and 
published in separate small books. Of these the following 
two may be mentioned: ‘‘Collected Omissions’? and ‘‘ The 
Omissions,’’ Koenigsberg, 1860.* 

A critical review of the complete editions of the Babylonian 
Talmud and of the very numerous editions of single Masech- 
toth since the year 1484, was published by Raphael Rabbino- 
vicz, in his Hebrew pamphlet, Munich, 1877. 

The same author also collected and published very rich and 
important material for a critical edition of the Babylonian 
Talmud from the above-mentioned manuscript in the Royal 
Library of Munich and other manuscripts, as well as from early 
prints of single Masechtoth in various libraries. The title of 
this very extensive work, written in Hebrew, is Dikduke So- 
pherim, with the Latin title: Variae lectiones in Mishnam et in 
Talmud Babylonicum, etc., Munich 1868-86. The fifteen vol- 
umes in octavo which have appeared of this valuable work 
comprise only three and a half Sedarim of the six Sedarim of 





. *In our ‘‘Schulchan Aruch und Seine Beziehungen, etc.,” mentioned in our 
appendix about the Miinster process, we give a clear explanation about all the cor- 
rections by the censor which does not fully agree with this remark. Concerning 
these omissions, see our ‘‘ Concluding Words” to Vols. XVII. and XVIII. 

+ This instructive pamphlet is also reprinted as an appendix to Vol. VIII. of 
Dikduke Sopherim. 





ADO 


mass 
455 SSh 


pe NSP AWS 37 NED *PD5) DOI PVN . Mao; WITT OY 
FR WI) 97 ype ow oan Aw TT, 8 omen Sys apy em und Yee 
eamnn oy to nvwad 52 “BYP YD: wr $9 YINWID Pwrw WIT ere «on ospsy> 
mp gran vy ddan neon epi tab 5 ony mda ron Sr bn pan Sw wd sys PAN sD 
p30 300) TYP “Y)), (Swern oxpors ors Morpo ANN) PARES ny DWT PNY « oma p54 3 any 
SND porn pian why a’nys $7 ya De ora 13m 3D mde 52 AUN PPP eee pys weow on 
p"IRD) 7’ox D'w3 3'wE>) HDD p™aN On Srey ADY prin RawO py Own mos mao ow mira 
.YID7 NEN PINT , NNOOYAS pay bn yon (P*®) rryy p'nd PDO AN PDO IN, (x’an—s "yn mses 
yo13s onrdyy 


br np me om (oaindss mn) YW ADD (2) Sb abe ob Ooyip maby mms (s 





S817 O's MAT DPN op . xno pas NOT ap ON Dene oa? I seergymenyy | moos -wrn 
pstanass “Oh kw py on on 5" aaa son IDO; "TON OT WITN | 2 PDS ws a 
_(omwren sya) rad peas $7 wo o'rh pa OD DDIM YY INO GC 


NPN7P p™AN OT WPT ORY Ou PDA Aan 
. (Wn Mesa ovemys)* 

upnaiman) son pron > wos ond R= IIT (7 
«(69 MID AIDDd won 13 wow pwn wh ps Ey 

prs 9° 929 on xpi pnd AAT Sspin NW (wo 
. (22 NTS YN O*DAYI) INTE 

(22a em o'er) 97 IWIN Ndya OA ny Mwy (re 

PND ppt Wax St PN RpY ON? OW ee ( 

PMDPMANIT SS Top o"sT UI NIT NWS 93 (m 

stains ST asbysN Ow om MT 

(rten v overy2) NAS PID’ FTN ISS “yds Sa PIT (2 

27 pose Tw ON Ww TIT wya(ss 





TAI po Pe eee woe ps0 mao oy , NIN 
/ YSN RYNS Map. , prMe pod any 


25" pain 

mw oa Di Ey OAD mabwrn 
TD OPO NTI ANS YN www pax 
+PSND P38 OF witNO 

reod wants) Te ry} SOOM ITI 0 

mn men pm LTA TC 

Tp Toweny smn hap on 

Devoe PATA "ID , ws Sp Codbun) Sycgpsess PASSA (0 
(PRE) FT MTN 

deans Of own IND Ted win by Seay YP ¢ 
» kMDDAND pan 5° Sony 

o'r , 7 b’se7? opr oy “> OASIS SOR (we 
+ (arben bya Se wax) SY ymin aby OTN 


318 oY Bnd 

197m ond 

rnya) 5°: poym 
+ (2° nvto~ 





+ (ON PWD eA RYN | A°¥PM Mv’ 135107 ARYIN ows oer yds o”wn "BO 5> Sy man mooi mbyo 3 Wo 3) 





Kae Os 92 Oy 13 wo ws NT en Tt aN gag 


PITD 53 FVII FIBRIN AND AR 


Omnon 43 J) DADS 7 y OMI O3N HD NTP DINI 337 AVM Wn Swirrs nino 
smn Pb wayo omer. on . Ny onary xd DITA Py , AD AN ADS AT oN wo mowoond cw 





35°74 
JON OVINT TSN SANST D113 


Pet SS aw 


TITLE PAGE OF THE LAST EDITION OF THE TALMUD AT WILNA. 


& 











HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. 55 


the Talmud. It is to be regretted that in consequence of the 
death of the learned author the completion of this important 
work has been suspended. 


c. The Palestinian Talmud. 


Of the Palestinian Talmud (Jerushalmi) only four complete 
editions appeared : 

1. The first edition, published by Daniel Bomberg, Venice, 
1523-24, in one folio volume, without any commentary. 

2. The Cracow edition, 1609, with a short commentary on 
the margin. 

3. The Krotoshin edition, 1866, with a commentary like 
that in the Cracow edition, but added to it are marginal notes, 
containing references to parallel passages in the Babylonian 
Talmud, and corrections of text readings. 

- 4. The Shztomir edition, 1860-67, in several folio volumes, 
with various commentaries. 

Besides these four complete editions, several parts have 
been published with commentaries. 


CHAPTER VII. 


TRANSLATIONS OF THE TALMUD 


A. THE MIsHNA. 
English Translations. 


W. Walton. Translation of the treatises Sabbath and 
Erubin, London, 1718. 

D. A. de Sola and M.I. Raphall. Eighteen treatises from 
the Mishna translated. London, 1843. 

Foseph Barclay published under the title ‘‘The Talmud”’ a 
translation of eighteen treatises of the Mishna with annota- 
tions. London, 1878. 

C. Taylor. Sayings of the Jewish Fathers (the treatise 
Aboth). Cambridge, 1877. 

REMARK.—The treatise ‘‘ Aboth” has been translated into almost all of the 
European languages. 


56 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. — 


B. THe BABYLONIAN TALMUD. 


To translate the Mishna is a comparatively easy task. Its 
generally plain and uniform language and style of expression, 
and its compendious character could easily enough be rendered 
into another language, especially when accompanied by some 
explanatory notes. But it is quite different with the Gemara, 
especially the Babylonian. There are, of course, also passages 
in the Gemara which offer no great difficulties to a translator 
who is sufficiently familiar with the idiom in which the original is 
composed. We refer to the historical, legendary and homiletical 
portions (Hagadas) which the compilers have interspersed in 
every treatise. The main part of the Gemara, however, which 
is essentially of an argumentative character, giving minute 
reports of discussions and debates on the law, this part, so rich 
in dialectical subtilities, and so full of technicalities and ellip- 
tical expressions, offers to the translator almost insurmounta- 
ble difficulties. 


English Translations. 


A.W. Streane. ‘Translation of the treatise Chagiga. Cam- 
bridge, 1891. | 

Mtchael L. Rodkinson : Babylonian Talmud—Section Moed 
(Festivals). Complete, consisting of the following volumes: 
Vol. I.,* Tract Sabbath (first ten chapters); Vol. II., Tract 
Sabbath (continued), fourteen chapters; Vol. III., Tract Eru- 
bin (Mingling); Vol. IV., Tracts Skekalim (Duties), and Rosh 
Hashana (Hebrew Calendar); Vol. V., Tract Pesachim (Pass- 
over); Vol. VI., Tracts Yomah (Day of Atonement), and 
Hagiga (Holocaust); Vol. VII., Tracts Betzah (Feast), Succah 
(Tabernacles), and Moed Katan (Minor Festivals); Vol. VIII., 
Tracts Taanith (Fasts), Megilla (Book of Esther), and Ebel 
Rabbathi (Great Mourning). 

Section Jurisprudence: Vol. I., Ethics of Judaism, (Tracts 
Aboth, Aboth of R. Nathan, Derech Eretz, Rabba and Zutta) ; 
Vol. II., Bab Kama (First Gate, eight chapters); Vol. III., 
Baba Metziah (Middle Gate), five chapters, and the last two of 





* Of Vol. I. and IV. a second revised and enlarged edition was published. 








HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. § 57 


Baba Kama; Vol. IV., the last five chapters of Baba Metziah; 
Vol. V.-VI., Baba Bathra (Last Gate, five chapters in each) ; 
Vol. VII.-VIII., Sanhedrin; Vol. [X:, Maccath, Shebuoth, and 
Eduyoth; Vol. X., Abuda Zara and Horioth, New York, 1896- 
1903.* 

C. THe PALESTINIAN TALMUD. 


a. Latin Translation. 


Blasius Ugolinus, published in volumes XVII.-XXX. of his 
Thesaurus antiquitatum sacrarum (Venice, 1755-65), the fol- 
lowing treatises in Latin: Pesachim (vol. XVII.); Shekalim, 
Yoma, Succah, Rosh Hashanah, Taanith, Megilla, Chagiga, 
Betza, Moed Katan (vol. XVIII.); Maaseroth, Maaser Sheni, 
Challah, Orlah, Biccurim (vol. XX.); Sanhedrin, Maccoth 
(vol. XXV.); Kiddushin, Sota, Kethuboth (vol. XXX.). 


b. German Translations. 


Foh. Facob Rabe, besides translating Berachoth in connec- 
tion with that treatise in the Babylonian Gemara, as men- 
tioned above, published: Der Talmudische Tractat Peah, 
iibersetzt und erlautert. Anspach, 1781. 

August Winsche. Der Jerusalemische Talmud in seinen 
haggadischen Bestandtheilen zum ersten Male in’s Deutsche 
iibertragen. Zurich, 1880. 


c. French Translation. 
- Moise Schwab. Le Talmud de Jerusalem traduit pour la 
premiére fois. X.volumes. Paris, 1871-90. 


D. GEMARA. 


M. Schwab, the author of the French translation published 
in English: The Talmud of Jerusalem. Vol. I. Berachoth. 
London, 1886. 





* See ‘‘ Kritische Geschichte der Talmud Ubersetzung” by Bischof, p. 62. 
In this book all the translations from both Talmuds in a// /anguages and all tracts 
or parts of them, with criticisms, are mentioned. The English translations are given 
here for the English reader, 


58 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


CHAPTER VIII. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY OF MODERN WORKS AND MONOGRAPHS ON 
TALMUDIC SUBJECTS. 


(Arranged with reference to subjects and in alphabetical order 
of authors). 


HAGADA. 


W. Bacher. Die Agada der Tannaiten. Strasburg, Als. 
1884; Die Agada der Babylonischen Amorder. Strasburg, 
Als., 1878; Die Agada der Palastinischen Amoraer. Strasburg, 
Als., 1891; Agada der Palastinischen Amorder, published 1896, 
Vol. II., Die Schueler Jochanan’s, and 1899 Vol. III., Die letz- 
ten Amorier des heiligen Landes. 

S. Back. Die Fabel im Talmud u. Midrasch (in Monats- 
schrift f. Geschichte u. Wissenschaft d. Judenthums, XXIV., 
1575: ARV., 1870; X XTX, 1880; XXX, 18815 RAAT 
1883; XXXIII., 1884). 

M. Grinbaum. Beitrage zur vergleichenden Mythologie 
aus der Haggada (in Zeitschrift d. D. Morgenl. Gesellschaft, 
vol. XXXI., 1877). 

M. Gidemann. Mythenmischung in der Haggada (in 
Monatsschrift f. Geschichte u. Wissenschaft d. Judenthums, 
vol. XXV., 1876). 

D. Hoffmann. Die Antonius Agadoth im Talmud (in 
Magazin fiir Wissenschaft des Judenthums, vol. XIX., 1892). 


ARCHAOLOGICAL. 


Ad. Brill. Trachten der Juden im nachbiblischen Alter- 
thum. Frankf. on the M., 1873. 

Franz Delitesch. Jiidisches Handwerkerleben zur Zeit 
Jesu, Elangen, 1879. Translated by B. Pick, “‘ Jewish Artisan 
Life.” New York, 1883. 

M. H. Friedlander. Die Arbeit nach Bibel u. Talmud, 
Briinn, 1891. 

L. Herzfeld. Metrologische Voruntersuchungen, Geld und 
Gewicht der Juden bis zum Schluss des Talmuds (in Jahrbuch 











HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. 59 


fiir Geschichte der Juden u. des Judenthums, vol. III., pp. 
95-191, Leipsic, 1863). 

Alex. Kohut. Ist das Schachspiel im Talmud genannt? 
(Z.d. D. M. G., XLVI., 130-39). 

Leopold Low. Graphische Requisiten und Erzeugnisse bei 
den Juden, Leipsic, 1870-71; Die Lebensalter in der ats: 
Literatur. Szegedin, 1875. 

H. Vogelstein. Die Landwirthschaft in Palestina zur Zeit 
der Mischna. Berlin, 1894. 

B. Zuckerman. Ueber Talmudische Miinzen u. Gewichte. 
Breslau, 1862; Das jiidische Maassystem. Breslau, 1867; 
Technologie u. Terminologie der Handverke in der P. Rieger 
Mischnah. Berlin, 1895. 


BIOGRAPHICAL. 


Sam. Back. Elischa ben Abuja, quellenmassig dargestellt. 
Frankf. on the M., 1891. 

A. Blumenthal. Rabbi Meir, sein Leben u. Wirken. Frankf., 
1889. 

M. Braunschweiger. Die Lehrer der Mischna, ihr Leben u. 
Wirken. Frankf. on the M., 1890. 

S. Fessler. Mar Samuel, der bedeutendste Amora. Breslau, 
1879. 

M. Friedlénder. Geschichtsbilder aus der Zeit der Tanai- 
ten u. Amoraer. Briinn, 1879. 

S. Gelbhaus. R. Jehuda Hanasi und die Redaction der 
Mischna. Vienna, 1876. 

D. Hoffmann. Mar Samuel, Rector der Academie zu Na- 
hardea. Leipsic, 1873. 

M. D. Hoffmann. Biographie des Elischa ben Abuya. 
Vienna, 1870. 

Armand Kaminka. Simon b. Jochai (chapter in the 
author’s Studien zur Geschichte Galilaeas. Berlin, 1890). 

Raphael Lévy. Un Tanah (Rabbi Meir), Etude sur la vie 
et l’enseignement d’un docteur Juif du II. siécle. Paris, 1883. 

L. Lewin. R. Simon b. Jochai. Frankf. on M., 1893. 

M.I. Mihlfelder. Rabh. Ein Lebensbild zur Geschichte 
des Talmud. Leipsic, 1873. 

F. Spitz. Rabban Jochanan b. Sakkai, Rector der Hoch- 
schule zu Jabneh. Berlin, 1883. 


60 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


I. Trenel. Vie de Hillel l’Ancient. Paris, 1867. 

H. Zirndorf. Some Women in Israel (pp. 119-270, por- 
traying distinguished women of the Talmudic age). Phila- 
delphia, 1892. 

F. Kauter. Beitraege zur Kenntniss des Rechtsystems 
und der Ethik Mar Samuels. Bern, 1895. 

A. Kisch. Hillel der Alte, Lebensbild eines jued. Weisen. 
Prag., 1889. 


CHRONOLOGY AND CALENDAR. 


L. M. Lewisohn. Geschichte u. System des jiidischen 
Kalenderwesens. Leipsic, 1856. 

B. Zuckermann. Materialien zur Entwickelung der altjii- 
dischen Zeitrechnung. Breslau 1882. 


CUSTOMS. 


I. M.:Cassanowicz. Non-Jewish religious ceremonies in 
the Talmud (in Proceedings of the American Oriental Society). 
New York, 1894. 

Foseph Perles. Die jiidische Hochzeit in nachbiblischer 
Zeit. Leipsic, 1860. Die Leichenfeierlichkeiten im nachbi- 
blischen Judenthum. Breslau, 1861. 

REMARK.—An English translation of both of these two monographs is embodied 


in ‘‘ Hebrew Characteristics,” published by the American Jewish Publication Society. 
New York, 1875. 


M. Fluegel. Gedanken iiber religidse Brauche und An- 
schauungen. Cincinnati, 1888. 


DIALECTICS. 


Aaron Hahn. The Rabbinical Dialectics. A History of 
Dialecticians and Dialectics of the Mishna and Talmud. Cin- 
cinnati, 1879. 


EDUCATION. 
Blach-Gudensberg. Das Paedagogische im Talmud. Hal- 
berstadt, 1880. 


M. Duschak. Schulgesetzgebung u. Methodik der alten 
Israeliten. Vienna, 1872. 














HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. 61 


Sam. Marcus. Zur Schul-Paedagogik des Talmud. Ber- 
lin, 1866. 
 -Foseph Simon. L’éducation et linstruction d’aprés la 
Bible et le Talmud. Leipsic, 1879. 

E. Van Gelden. Die Volkeschule des juedischen Alter- 
thums nach Talmudischen Quellen. Berlin, 1872. 

¥. Wiesen. Geschichte und Methodik der Schulwesens im 
talmudischen Alterthum. Strasburg, 1892. 
_ -¥. Lewit. Darstellung der theoretischen und practischen 
Paedagogik im juedischen Alterthum. Berlin, 1896. 


ETHICS. 


M. Bloch. Die Ethik der Halacha. Budapest, 1886. 

Herman Cohen. Die Nachstenliebe im Talmud. Ein 
Gutachten. Marburg, 1886. 

M. Duschak. Die Moral der Evangelien u. des Talmuds. 
Briinn, 1877. 

H. B. Fassel. Tugend- und Rechtslehre des Talmud. 
Vienna, 1848. 

M. Lazarus. Die Ethik des Judenthums. Frankfort a. M., 
1898. Translated into English. (The Ethics of Judaism), 
by Henriette Szold, Vol. I. Philadelphia, 1900-o1. 

E. Grinebaum. Die Sittenlehre des Judenthums andern 
Bekentnissen gegeniiber. Strasburg, 1878. 

M. Gidemann.  Nachstenliebe. Vienna, 1890. 

Alex. Kohut. The Ethics of the Fathers. A series of lec- 
tures. New York, 1885. 

_L. Lazarus. Zur Charakteristik der talmudischen Ethik. 
Breslau, 1877. 

Marc. Lévy. Essai sur la morale de Talmud. Paris, 1891. 

Luzzatto. Israelitische Moraltheologie, deutsch von M. 
Joel. Breslau, 1870. 

S. Schaffer. Das Recht und seine Stellung zur Moral nach 
talmudischer Sitten- und Rechtslehre. Frankf. on the M., 
1889. 

N. $. Weinstein, Geschichtliche Entwickelung des Gebotes 
der Nachstenliebe innerhalb des Judenthums, kritisch be- 
leuchtet. Berlin, 1891. 

M. L. Rodkinson. Ahbath Adam ah pe Torah She Bal 


‘3 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


peh. In Hebrew—a booklet in the periodical Hakol, Vol. VI. 
Vienna, 1885. Translated into German as ‘‘ Nachstenliebe 
nach den Talmud”’ in manuscript. 


EXEGESIS. 


W. Bacher. Exegesis and Bible Criticism. Ein Woerter- 
buch der bibelexegetischen Kunstsprache der Tannaiten. 
Leipsic, 1899. 

M. Etsenstadt. Ueber Bibelkritik in der talmud. Literatur. 
Berlin, 1894. 

H. S. Hirschfeld. Walachische Exegese. Berlin, 1840; 
Die Hagadische Exegese. Berlin, 1847. 

S. Waldberg. Darke Hashinnuyim, on the methods of artifi- 
cial interpretation of Scriptures in the Talmud and Midrash 
(in Hebrew). Lemberg, 1870. 


GEOGRAPHY AND History. 


A. Berliner. Beitrage zur Geographie u. Ethnographie 
Babyloniens im Talmud u. Midrasch. Berlin, 1883. 

F. Derenbourg. Essai sur Vhistoire et la géographie de la 
Palestine d’aprés les Talmuds et les autres sources rabbiniques. 
Paris, 1867. 

H. Huldesheimer. Beitrage zur Geographie Palastinas. 
Berlin, 1886. 

Armand Kaminka. Studien zur Geschichte Galilaeas. 
Berlin, 1890. 

Ad. Neubauer. La géographie du Talmud. Mémoire cou- 
ronné par l’académie des inscriptions et belles-lettres. Paris, 
1868. 


Law. 


a. In General. 


Facques Levy. La jurisprudence du Pentateuque et du 
Talmud. Constantine, 1879. 

S. Mayer. Die Rechte der Israeliten, Athener und Rémer. 
Leipsic, 1862-66. 

M. Mielziner. Legal Maxims and Fundamental Laws of 
the Civil and Criminal Code of the Talmud. Cincinnati, 1898. 

















HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. 63 


M. W. Rapaport. Der Talmud und sein Recht (in Zeit- 
schrift fuer Vergleichende Rechtswissenschaft, XIV. Band. 
Stuttgart, 1900). 

I. L. Saalschitz. Das Mosaische Recht, nebst den vervoll- 
standigenden thalmudisch-rabbinischen Bestimmungen. 2d 
Edition. Berlin, 1853. 

S. Schaffer. Das Recht u. seine Stellung zur Moral nach 
talmudischer Sitten- und Rechtslehre. Frankf. on the M., 1889. 

I. M. Wise. The Law (in the Hebrew Review, Vol. I., pp. 
12-32. Cincinnati, 1880). 


b. Fudicial Courts. 


Adolph Buechler. Das Synhedrion in Jerusalem. Vienna, 
1902. 

E. Hoffmann. Der oberste Gerichtshof in der Stadt des 
Heiligthums. Berlin, 1878. 

F. Klein. Das Gesetz ueber das gerichtlische Beweisver- 
fahren nach mosaisch-talmudischen Rechte. Halle, 1885. 

F. Selden. De Synedriis et praefecturis juridicis veterum 
Ebraeorum. London, 1650; Amsterd., 1679; Frankf., 1696. 


c. Evidence in Law. 


I. Blumenstein. Die verschiedenen Eidesarten nach mosa- 
isch-talmudischem Rechte. Frankf. on the M., 1883. 

Z. Frankel. ~Der Gerichtliche Beweis nach mosaisch-talmu- 
dischem Rechte. Berlin, 1846. 

D. Fink. ‘“‘Miggo” als Rechtsbeweis im bab. Talm. Leip- 
sic, 1891. 


d. Criminal Law. 


O. Béhr. Das Gesetz tiber falsche Zeugen, nach Bibel u. 
Talmud. Berlin, 1862. 

P. B. Benny. The Criminal Code of the Jews. London, 
1880. 

M. Duschak. Das mosaisch-talmudische Strafrecht. Vi- 
enna, 1869. 

¥. Furst. Das peinliche Rechtsverfahren im jiid. Alter- 
thum. Heidelberg, 1870. 


64 “THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


E. Goitein. Das Vergeltungsprinzip im bibl. u. talmudi- 
schen Strafrecht (in Zeitschrift fiir Wissenschaft d. J. Vol. 
XIX. ; 

S. Mendelsohn. The Criminal Jurisprudence of the ancient 
Hebrews compiled from the Talmud and other rabbinical writ- 
ings. Baltimore, 1891. 

Thonisson. La peine de mort dans le Talmud. Brussels, 
1886. 

Fulius Vargha. Defence in criminal cases with the ancient 
Hebrews, translated from the first chapter of the author’s large 
work “ Vertheidigung in Criminalfallen,’’ and published in the 
Hebrew Review, Vol. I., pp. 254-268. Cincinnati, 1880. 

I. Wiesner. Der Bann in seiner geschichtlichen Entwicke- 
lung auf dem Boden des Judenthums. Leipsic, 1864. 


e. Civil Law. 


L. Auerbach. Das jiidische Obligationsrecht. Berlin, 1871. 

M. Bloch. Die Civilprocess-Ordnung nach mosaisch-rab- 
binischem Rechte. Budapest, 1882. 

H. B. Fassel. Das mosaisch-rabbinische Civilrecht. Gr. 
Kanischa, 1852-54; Das mosaisch-rabbinische Gerichtsver- 
fahren in civilrechtlischen Sachen. Gr. Kanischa, 1859. 

S. Keyzer. Dissertatio de tutela secundum jus Talmudi- 
cum. Leyden, 1847. 


f. Inheritance and Testament. 


M. Bloch. Der Vertrag nach mosaisch-talmud. Rechte. 
Budapest, 1892; Das mosaisch-talmud. Erebrecht. Buda- 
pest, 1890; 

L. Bodenheimer. Das Testament. Crefeld, 1847. 

Eduard Gans. Grundztige des mosaisch-talmudischen Er- 
brechts (in Zunz’s Zeitschrift fiir die Wissenschaft des Juden- 
thums, p. 419 sq.). | 

M. Mielziner. The Rabbinical Law of Hereditary Succes- 
sion. Cincinnati, 1900. 

Moses Mendelssohn. Ritualgesetze der Juden, betreffend 
Erbschaften Vormundschaft, Testamente, etc. Berlin, 1778, 
and several later editions. | 




















HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. 65 


M. W. Rapaport. . Grundsaetze des (talmudischen) In- 
testaterbrechts und Schenkungen (in Zeitschrift fuer Ver- 
gleichende Rechts Wissenschaft, XIV. Band. Stuttgart, 1g00. 

Foh. Selden. De Successionibus in bona defuncti ad leges 
Hebraeorum. London, 1646; Frankf., 1696. 

A. Wolff. Das Juedische Erbrecht. Berlin, 1888. 


g. Police Law. 


M. Bloch. Das mosaisch-talmudische Polizeirecht. Buda- 
pest, 1878. Translated into English by I. W. Lilienthal in the 
Hebrew Review, Vol. I. Cincinnati, 1881. 


h. Law of Marriage and Divorce. 


P. Buchholz. Die Familie nach mos.-talmud. Lehre. 
Breslau, 1867. 

M. Duschak. Das mosaisch-talmudische Eherecht. Vienna, 
1864. 

Z. Frankel. Grundlinien des mosaisch-talmud. Eherechts. 
Breslau, 1860. 

S. Holdheim. Die Autonomie der Rabbinen und das Prin- 
cip der jiidischen Ehe. Schwerin, 1847. 

L. Lichtschein. Die Ehe nach mosaisch-talm. Auffassung. 
Leipsic, 1879. 

M. Mielziner. The Jewish Law of Marriage and Divorce 
in ancient and modern times, and its relation to the law of the 
State. Cincinnati, 1884. 

¥oh. Selden. Uxor Ebraica sive de nuptiis et divortiis, etc. 
London, 1646. 

I. Stern. Die Frauim Talmud. Zurich, 1879. 

D. W. Amram. The Jewish Law of Divorce. Philadel- 
phia, 1896. 


1. Laws Concerning Slavery. 


D. Farbstein. Das Recht der freien und der unfreien 
Arbeiter nach juedish-talmudischen Recht. Frankfort o. M., 
1896. 

M. Mielziner. Verhaltnisse der Sklaven bei den alten 

. 


66 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


Hebraern nach biblischen und talmudischen Quellen. Copen- 
hagen (Leipsic), 1859. 


REMARK.—An English translation of this treatise was published by Prof. H. I. 
Schmidt in the Gettysburg Evang. Review, Vol. XIII., No. 51, and reprinted in the 
Am. Jew’s Annual. Cincinnati, 1886. 


I. Winter. Stellung der Sklaven bei den Juden. Breslau, 
1886. 

Zadok-Kahn. UL’esclavage selon la Bible et le Talmud 
(Paris, 1867); Sklaverei nach Bibel u. Talmud. Deutsch von 
Singer. Berlin, 1888. 


LINGUISTICS. 


A. Berliner. Beitrage zur hebréischen Grammatik im 
Talmud u. Midrasch. Berlin, 1879. 

Ad. Brill. Fremdsprachliche Redensarten u. W6rter in 
den Talmuden u. Midraschim. Leipsic, 1869. 

N. Brill. Fremdsprachliche WG6rter in den Talmuden u. 
Midraschim (in Jahrbiicher fiir jiid. Geschichte u. Literatur, I., 
123-220). Frankf. o. M., 1874. 

Sam. Kramer. Griechische und Lateinische Lehnwoerter 
in Talmud, Midrasch u. Targum. 2 vols. Berlin, 1898-99. 

Fos. Perles. Etymologische Studien zur Kunde der rabbi- 
nischen Sprache und Alterthiimer. Breslau, 1871. 

G. Rulf. Zur Lautleiire der aramaisch-talmudischen Dia- 
lecte. Breslau, 1879. 

Mich. Sachs. Beitrage zur Sprach- und Alterthumsfor- 
schung. 2 volumes. Berlin, 1852-54. 


MATHEMATICS. 


A. Lieberman. Das Pronomen und das Adverbium des 
babyl.-talmudischen Dialecte. Berlin, 1895. 

B. Zuckermann. Das Mathematische im Talmud. Be- 
leuchtung und Elauterung der Talmudstellen mathematischen 
Inhalts. Breslau, 1878. 


MEDICINE, SURGERY, ETC. 


Fos. Bergel. Die Medizin der Talmudisten. Leipsic, 1885. 
Foach. Halpern. Beitrage zur Geschichte -der talm. 
Chirurgie. Breslau, 1869. 











HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. 67 


A. H. Israels. Collectanea Gynaecologica ex Talmude 
Babylonico. Gréningen, 1845. 

L. Katzenelsson. Die Osteologie der Talmudisten. Eine 
talmudisch-anatonische Studie (in Hebrew). St. Petersburg, 
1888. 

R. I. Wunderbar. Biblisch-talmudische Medicin. 2 vol- 
umes. Riga (Leipsic), 1850-60. 


NATURAL HIsTORY AND SCIENCES, 


Fos. Bergel. Studien tiber die naturwissenschaftlichen 
Kenntnisse der Talmudisten. Leipsic, 1880. 

M.Duschak. Zur Botanik des Talmud. Budapest, 1870. 

L. Lewysohn. Die Zoologie des Talmuds. Frankf. on the 
M., 1858. 

Imm. Low. Aramiaische Pflanzennamen. Leipsic, 1881. 


PARSEEISM IN THE TALMUD. 


Alexander Kohut. Was hat die talm. Eschatologie aus dem 
Parsismus aufgenommen? (in Z. d. D. M. G., vol. XXI., pp. 
552-91); Die jtidische Angelologie und Daemonologie in ihrer 
Abhangigkeit vom Parsismus (Leipsic, 1866); Die talmu- 
disch-midraschische Adamssage in ihrer Rtickbeziehung auf die 
pers. Yima und Meshiasage (in Z. d. D. M. G., XXV., pp. 
59-94); Die Namen der pers. u. babylonischen Feste im Tal- 
mud (in Kobak’s Jeschurun, vol. VIII., 49-64). The same 
subject in Revue des Etudes Juives, Vol. XXIV. 


POETRY. 


S. Sekles. The Poetry of the Talmud. New York, 1880. 


PROVERBS, Maxims, PARABLES. 


L. Dukes. Rabbinische Blumenlese (Leipsic, 1844); Rab- 
binische Sprachkunde (Vienna, 1851). 

F. R. Fiirstenthal. Rabbinische Anthologie. Breslau, 
1834. 

Giuseppe Levt. Parabeln, Legenden u. Gedanken aus Tal- 
mud u. Midrasch, aus dem Italienischen ins Deutsche iibetragen 
von L. Seligmann. Leipsic, 1863. 


68 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


Léwenstein. Sentenzen, Spriiche u. Lebensregeln aus dem 
Talmud. Berlin, 1887. 

Henry Cohen. Talmudic Sayings. Cincinnati, 1895. _ 

G. Tabenhaus. Echoes of Wisdom, or Talmudic Sayings, 
‘ Part I. Brooklyn, 1900. 


PsYCHOLOGY. 


M. Facobson. Versuch einer Psychologie des Talmud. 
Hamburg, 1878. 

I. Wiesner. Zur talmudischen Psychologie (in Magazin 
fiir jtidische Geschichte und Literatur, Vol. I., 1874, and II., 
1875). 

RELIGIOUS PHILOSOPHY AND History. 


M. Friedlander. Ben Dosa und seine Zeit, oder Einfluss 
der heidnischen Philosophie auf das Judenthum u. Christen- 
thum. Prague, 1872. 

M.Giudemann. Religionsgeschichtliche Studien. Leipsic, 
1876. 

M. Foel. Blicke in die Religionsgeschichte zu Anfang des 
II. Jahrhunderts. Breslau, 1880. 

A. Nager. Die Religionsphilosophie des Talmud. Leipsic, 
1864. 


SUPERNATURALISM AND SUPERSTITION. 


Gideon Brecher. Das Transcendentale, Magik und magi- 
sche Heilarten im Talmud. Vienna, 1850. 

David Foel. Der Aberglaube und die Stellung des Juden- 
thums zu demselben. 2 parts. Breslau, 1881-3. 

Alex. Kohut. Jiidische Angelologie u. Daemonologie in ihrer 
Abhangigkeit vom Parsismus. Leipsic, 1866. 

Sal. Thein. Das Princip des planetarischen Einflusses 
nach der Anschauung des Talmud. Vienna, 1876. 

S. Wolffsohn. Oneirologie im Talmud, oder der Traum 
nach Auffassung des Talmuds. Breslau, 1874. 


- PopuLaR TREATISES AND LECTURES ON THE TALMUD. 


Tobtas Cohn. Der Talmud. Ein Vortrag. Vienna, 1866. 
Arsem Darmstetter. The Talmud (translated from the French 
by Henriette Szold). Philadelphia, 1897. 

















HISTORICAL AND LITERARY INTRODUCTION. 69 


Emanuel Deutsch. What is the Talmud? (in the Quar- 
terly Review for October, 1867, reprinted in the Literary Re- 
mains, New York, 1874). 

M. Ehrentheil. Der Geist des Talmud. Breslau, 1887. 

¥. Eschelbacher. Zwei Reden ueber den Talmud. Frank- 
fort o. M., 1897. 

Karl Fischer. Gutmeinung tiber den Talmud. Vienna, 
1883. 

H. Goitein. Anklaeger und Vertheidiger des Talmud. 
Frankf. o. M., 1897. 

Sams. Raph. Hirsch. Beziehung des Talmuds zum Juden- 
thum und zur sozialen Stellung seiner Bekenner. Frankf. o. 
M., 1884. 

P. I. Hershon. Talmudic Miscellany. London, 1880. 

P. L. Hershon. ‘Treasures of the Taimud. London, 1882. 

Abram S. Isaacs. Stories from the Rabbis. New York, 
1893. 

A. fellinek. Der Talmud. Zwei Reden (Vienna, 1865); 
Der Talmudjude. 4 Reden (Vienna, 1882-83). 

M. Yoel. Gutachten iiber den Talmud. Breslau, 1877. 

Albert Katz. Der wahre Talmudjude. Die wichtigsten 
Grundsitze des talmudischen Schriftthums tiber das sittliche 
Leben des Menschen. Berlin, 1893. 

S. Klein. Die Wahrheit tiber den Talmud (aus dem Fran- 
zosischen ‘‘ La verité sur le Talmud,” tibersetzt von S. Mann- 
heimer. Basel, 1860. 

Isidore Loeb. La Controverse sur le Talmud sous Saint 
Louis. Paris, 1881. 

-H. Polano. The Talmud, Selections from the contents of 
that ancient book. London, 1876. 

Ludwig Philippson. Zur Characteristik des Talmuds (in 
‘““Weltbewegende Fragen.’”’ Vol. II., pp. 349-416. Leipsic, 
1869). 

Em. Schreiber. The Talmud. A series of (4) Lectures. 
Denver, 1884. 

L. Stern. Ueber den Talmud. Vortrag. Wurzburg, 1875. 

¥. Stern. Lichtstrahlen aus dem Talmud. Zurich, 1883. 

A. A. Wolff. Talmudfjender (the Enemies of the Talmud), 
in Danish. Copenhagen, 1878. 

August Winsche. Der Talmud. Eine Skizze. Zurich, 1879. 


70 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


M. L. Rodkinson. What is the Talmud? (A book in 
Hebrew, the first chapter of which is translated into English 
as an appendix tothe Pentateuch. Its language and charac- 
ters). Chicago, 1894. In the first prospectus issued by the 
New Amsterdam Book Co., it is republished with additional 
remarks, 


CHAPTER IX. 
WHY SHOULD CHRISTIANS FEEL INTERESTED IN THE TALMUD? * 


Christian theology and Jewish theology having really fol- 
lowed two parallel paths, the history of either cannot be under- 
stood without the history of the other. Numberless material 
details of the gospels find, moreover, their commentary in the 
Talmud... The distinction of epochs is here very important, 
the compilation of the Talmud extending from the year 200 to 
the year 500 nearly.—Renan’s “Life of fesus,” Introduction. 

Is the literature that Jesus was familiar with in his early 
years yet in existence in the world? Is it possible for us to get 
at it? Can we ourselves review the ideas, the statements, the 
modes of reasoning and thinking, on moral and religious sub- 
jects, which were current in his time, and must have been re- 
volved by him during those silent thirty years when he was 
pondering his future mission? To such inquiries the learned 
class of Jewish rabbis answer by holding up the Talmud. Here, 
say they, is the source from whence Jesus of Nazareth drew the 
teachings which enabled him to revolutionize the world; and 
the question becomes, therefore, an interesting one to every 
Christian, What is the Talmud? .. . 

The Talmud, then, is the written form of that which, in the 
time of Jesus, was called the Traditions of the Elders, and to 
which he makes frequent allusions. What sort of book is it? 

The answer is at first sight discouraging to flesh and spirit. 
The Talmud appears to view in form of fourteen heavy folio 
volumes, of thick, solid Hebrew and Aramaic consonants, with- 
out a vowel to be seen from the first word of the first volume 





* Many learned men, as is well known to any student, have in each century since 
the close of the Talmud written about the necessity of Talmudic studies, even for 
non-Jews. We have, nevertheless, selected for quotation some statements of modern 
scholars of this century, to the effect that the study of the Talmud is highly useful to 
Christian theologians. 




















WHY SHOULD THE TALMUD BE STUDIED? 71 


to the last word of the last. Such is the Jewish Talmud, in- 
cluding both the Jerusalem and the Babylonian. Who can 
read it? It can be read, for it has been read... 

The Talmud is the great repository of the mental products 
of a most vigorous and vivid race of thinkers, through long 
ages of degradation, persecution, oppression, and sorrow; and, 
as such, few human works are more worthy of, or will better 
repay, the student of human nature .. . 

What light it may shed on the words of Jesus and Paul to 
know the modes of thought which were such a perfect world in 
their time! When Paul speaks of his studies at the feet of 
Gamaliel, one of the principal authors of the Talmud, of his 
profiting in the matters of law above many of his equals, we 
see him, an ardent young enthusiast, on the way to become an 
accomplished rabbi, perhaps even a Nasi, in some future day, 
and we understand what he means when he says, ‘‘ But what 
things were gain to me, these I counted loss to Christ.” It was 
a whole education and a whole life’s work that he threw at the 


: feet of his new Master. 


Looking at the Talmud in contrast with any other ancient 
sacred writings extant in the world, except the Bible, we must 
be struck with its immense superiority .. . 

I desire, in conclusion, to express my obligations to the 
ponderous erudition of the two older standard authors on this 
subject ... 

The writings of Dukes, an author of our own day, are es- 
pecially rich in regard to Rabbinic proverbs and apologues; 
and in one of his prefaces he expresses the hope that they may 
be of some use even to that rather numerous body of Christians 
who give little other evidence of being Christians at all, except 
that of hating the Jews.—Atlantic Monthly, vol. 21, p. 673, sq. 

The science of our day owes to itself the duty of studying the 
Talmud impartially. It will judge worthy of its attention this 
monument of a religion and a civilization whose influence has 
not been void in the world, and whatever its absolute value 
may be adjudged to be, science will understand it, and study 
its formation and development. It will demand of the Talmud 
instruction, or, at least, information, almost as varied as the 
subjects coming within the compass of science. The historian 
will address himself to it for light upon the history of the 


72 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


earlest centuries of the Christian era, and of the centuries im- 
mediately preceding it, and though not seeking in it precise 
data, which it cannot furnish, he will be sure to find a faithful 
picture of the beliefs and ideas of the Jewish nation on its moral 
and spiritual life. The naturalist will ask of it numerous ques- 
tions concerning the sciences, physical, natural, or medical. 
Has it ever occurred to any one to compile, if not the fauna, at 
least the flora of the Talmud; that is, of the Palestine and 
Babylonia contemporary with the Empire? It were easy with 
it as a basis to furnish a second edition of Pliny’s Natural His- 
tory, certainly as valuable as the first. The lawyer will ques- 
tion it on the history of its jurisprudence, will investigate 
whether, how, and by what intermediaries Roman law and 
Persian customs influenced it, and it will be a curious study to 
compare the results that two different civilizations, directed 
by opposite principles, have reached in the jus civile and the 
jus Talmudicum. The mythologist will dive into its legends, 
and, by a nice application of the comparative method, deter- 
mine the history of Midrashic mythology. The philologist will 
devote himself to the language—that abrupt, rough language 
by means of which the Talmud seems to please itself in heaping 
up obscurities of form over those of the thought, and he will be 
sure to make more than one happy find. For, says the author 
of the History of the Semitic Languages, ‘‘ the lexical spoliation 
and grammatic analysis of the Talmudic language, according 
to the methods of modern philology, remain to be made .. . 
That language fills a hiatus in the history of Semitic 
idioms. 

Finally, the philosopher will demand of the Talmud the ex- 
planation of Judaism and the history of Jewish institutions, 
and as the Talmudic books offer the completest expression 
thereof, and as he has at hand all the component elements, a 
scrupulous analysis will give him the law of the development 
of the Jewish religion. —Darmesteter, “‘ The Talmud,” p. 96. 

Here we have an attempt—and the attempt is praiseworthy 
—to put the Talmud, or the substance of it, into plain English, 
and for this the Christian reader, if not the learned rabbi, must 
be grateful to the translator.—Independent, April 7, 1898. 

Published in the second prospectus issued by the New Tal- 
mud Publishing Co., adding to them some remarks of Mielziner’s 























WHY SHOULD THE TALMUD BE STUDIED? = 73 


address to the senior class of the Union Hebrew College at 
Cincinnati, some years ago: 

“To impress you the more with the necessity of the Talmudic 
studies for a clear conception of Judaism and its history, I could 
also quote the opinions of many of our greatest scholars, but 
shall confine myself only to a quotation from the writings of two 
of our most renowned scholars whom none will suspect of hav- 
ing been biased by a too great predilection for the Talmud ; one 
is the late Dr. Geiger, and the other our great historian, the late 
Dr. Jost. 

‘Geiger (Das Fudenthum und seine Geschichte, I., p. 155) in 
speaking of the Talmud and the rabbinical literature, says: 

‘* Gigantic works, productions of gloomy and brighter peri- 
ods are here before us, monuments of thought and intellectual 
labor; they excite our admiration. I do not indorse every 
word of the Talmud, nor every idea expressed by the teachers 
in the time of the Middle Ages, but I would not miss a tittle 
thereof. They contain an acumen and power of thought which 
fill us with reverence for the spirit that animated our ancestors, 
a fulness of sound sense, salutary maxims—a freshness of opin- 
ion often bursts upon us that even to this day exercises its en- 
livening and inspiring effect.’ 

“Yost in his Geschichte des Fudenthum’s und seiner Secten, 
II., 202, characterizes the Talmud by the following masterly 
words: 

‘““* The Talmud is a great mine, in which are imbedded all 
varieties of metals and ores. Here may be found all kinds of 
valuables, the finest gold and rarest gems, as also the merest 
dross. Much has been unearthed that has realized count- 
less profit to the world. The great spiritual work whose out- 
come has been apparent in the advancement of religion has 
shown that the Talmud is not only of incalculable value in the 
pursuit of wisdom, but that it has a self-evident significance for 
all times, which can not be shown by any mere extracts from its 
pages, and that it can not be disregarded on the plea of its antiq- 
uity as valueless in the knowledge of the Jewish religion. In- 
deed it is and must remain the chief source of this knowledge, 
and particularly of the historical development of the Jewish 
religion. More than this, it is the abode of that spirit which 
has inspired that religion, these many centuries, that spirit from 


74 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


which even those who sought to counteract it could not escape. 
It is and will remain a labyrinth with deep shafts and openings, 
in which isolated spirits toil with tireless activity, a labyrinth 
which offers rich rewards to those who enter impelled by the de- 
sire to gain, not without hidden dangers to those who venture 
wantonly into its mazes and absorb its deadly vapors. Re- 
ligion has created this work, not indeed to give utterance in an 
unsatisfactory way to the great questions of Deity and Nature, 
Mortality and Eternity, and not to carry on controversies upon 
the proper formulation of articles of faith, but to give expres- 
sion to a religion of deed, a religion designed to accompany 
man from the first steps in his education until he reaches the 
grave, and beyond it; a guide by which his desires and actions 
are to be regulated at every moment, by which all his move- 
ments are to be guarded, that takes care even of his food and 
drink, of his pleasures and pains, of his mirth and sorrow, and 
seeks to elevate him, at all times, to an enunciation of the pur- 
est faith. 

“«*T¢ is thus that this spirit, which breathes from the Talmud, 
enters into the nation’s inmost life. It offers repeated recitals 
of the various modes of thinking, practising, believing, of the 
true and false representations, of hopes and longings, of knowl- 
edge and error, of the great lessons of fate, of undertakings 
and their consequences, of utterances and their effects, of per- 
sons and their talents and inaptitudes, of words and ex- 
amples, of customs, both in matters of public worship and pri- 
vate life; in short, of all the happenings, past or cotemporary, 
in the time which the Talmud comprises, 7.e., a period of nearly 
one thousand years, excluding the Bible times. 

““* Hence, also, its great value to antiquarians in the 
frequent allusions to facts, opinions and statements, to modes 
of expression and grammatical construction, to peculiarities 
of every kind, which at the same time afford a view of the 
development of mankind, such as no other work of the past 
gives. 

_ “To treat the Talmud with scorn because of its oddness, on 
account of much that it contains that does not conform to our 
maturer modes of thinking, because of its evident errors and 
misconceptions—errors from ignorance or errors in copying— 
to throw it overboard, as it were, as useless ballast, would be 




















OPINIONS OF GENTILES. 75 


to insult all history, to deprive it of one of its strongest limbs, 
to dismember it. 

‘““*To dam up itschannels by taking away the Talmud, would 
be to close the access to the head waters and living sources of 
the Jewish religion, and thus leave her again in a desert land, 
after the tables of the law have already called forth a world of 
life and activity. It would be turning one’s back, as it were, 
denying and disregarding one’s own. ‘There is a historical jus- 
tification for the sharply defined modes of worship and religious 
forms that have their embodiment in set words and in fixed 
deeds. For this we must look to the Talmud. Judaism is 
rooted in the Talmud and would be tossed about in mid-air if 
torn from its soil, or require a new planting and a new growth.’ 

‘In conclusion, my young friends, let me say this: 

‘“‘ If our College had no other purpose than to graduate com- 
mon Sabbath school teachers who should be able to occasionally 
deliver popular though superficial lectures, the study of the 
Talmud, as well as that of our rabbinical and philosophical 
literature, might have been stricken from the course of your 
studies. But our College has a higher aim and object. Its 
object is to educate future guides and leaders of our congrega- 
tions, to educate banner-bearers of Judaism, representatives 
and cultivators of Jewish knowledge and literature. 

‘You can never expect to answer this purpose without a 
thorough knowledge of, and familiarity with, that vast litera- 
ture that offers us the means to follow and understand the 
religious formation, the growth and the entire course of devel- 
opment of Judaism from its beginning to the present time.” 


CHAPTER X. 


OPINIONS ON THE VALUE OF THE TALMUD BY GENTILES AND 
MODERN JEWISH SCHOLARS. 


No literary monument of antiquity has ever been subject to 
so different and opposite views and opinions, as the Talmud. 
Its strict followers generally looked upon it as the very em- 
bodiment of wisdom and sagacity, and as a work whose author- 
ity was second only to that of the Bible. In the non-Jewish 
literature it was often decried as “‘one of the most repulsive 


76 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


books that exist,’’ as “‘a confused medley of perverted logic, 
absurd subtilities, foolish tales and fables, and full of profanity, 
superstition, and even obscenity,”’ or at the most, as “an im- 
mense heap of rubbish at the bottom of which some stray pearls 
of Eastern wisdom are hidden.”’ 

It is certain that many of those who thus assumed to pass 
a condemning judgment upon the gigantic work of the Talmud 
never read nor were able to read a single page of the same in the 
original, but were prompted by religious prejudice and antag- 
onism, or they based their verdict merely on those disconnected 
and often distorted passages which Eisenmenger and his con- 
sorts and followers picked out from the Talmud for hostile 
purposes. 

Christian scholars who had a deeper insight into the Tal- 
mudical literature, without being blinded by religious preju- 
dices, expressed themselves quite differently on the character 
and the merits of that work, as may be seen from the following 
few quotations. 

Fohann Buxtorf, in the preface to his Lexicon Chald. et 
Talmudicum, says: “‘ The Talmud contains many legal, medical, 
physical, ethical, political, astronomical, and other excellent 
documents of sciences, which admirably commend the history 
of that nation and time; it contains also luminous decisions of 
antiquity; excellent sayings; deep thoughts, full of grace and 
sense; and numerous expressions which make the reader not 
only better, but also more wise and learned, and which, like 
unto flashing jewels, grace the Hebrew speech not less than all 
those Greek and Roman phrases adorn their languages.” 

Other favorable opinions expressed by Christian scholars 
of the sixteenth to eighteenth centuries are collected in Karl 
Fischer’s ‘‘Gutmeinung iiber den Talmud der Hebraer.”’ 
Vienna, 1883. 

Of such scholars as belong to our time, the following may be 
quoted here: 

The late Professor Delitesch in his ‘‘ F$idisches Handwerker- 
leben zur Zeit Fesu,”’ says: 

“Those who have not in some degree accomplished the 
extremely difficult task of reading this work for themselves, will 
hardly be able to form a clear idea of this polynomical colossus. 
It is an immense speaking-hall, in which thousands and tens of 


























OPINIONS OF GENTILES. 17 


thousand of voices, of at least five centuries, are heard to com- 
mingle. A law, as we all know from experience, can never be 
so precisely formulated that there does not remain room for 
various interpretations; and question upon question constantly 
arises as to the application of it to the endless multiplicity of the 
existing relations of life. Just imagine about ten thousand 
decrees concerning Jewish life classified according to the spheres 
of life, and in addition to these, about five hundred scribes and 
lawyers, mostly from Palestine and Babylon, taking up one 
after another of these decrees as the topic of examination and 
debate, and, discussing with hair-splitting acuteness every 
shade of meaning and practical application; and imagine, 
further, that the fine-spun thread of this interpretation of 
- decrees is frequently lost in digressions, and that, after having 
traversed long distances of such desert-sand, you find, here and 
there, an oasis, consisting of sayings and accounts of more 
general interest. Then you may have some slight idea of this 
vast, and of its kind, unique, juridic codex, compared with 
whose compass all the law-books of other nations are but 
Lilliputians, and beside whose variegated, buzzing market din, 
they represent but quiet study-chambers.”’ 

F. Alexander, in his book on The Fews; their Past, Present 
and Future (London, 1870), says: 

“The Talmud, as it now stands, is almost the whole litera- 
ture of the Jews during a thousand years. Commentator fol- 
lowed upon commentator, till at last the whole became an 
immense bulk; the original Babylonian Talmud alone consists 
of 2,947 folio pages. Out of such literature it is easy to make 
quotations which may throw an odium over the whole. But 
fancy if the production of a thousand yearsof English literature, 
say, from the “History” of the Venerable Bede to Milton’s 
‘Paradise Lost,’’ were thrown together into a number of uni- 
form folios, and judged in like manner; if because some super- 
stitious monks wrote silly “‘Lives of Saints,” therefore the 
works of John Bunyan should also be considered worthless. 
The absurdity is too obvious to require another word from me. 
Such, however, is the continual treatment the Talmud receives 
both at the hand of its friends and of its enemies. Both will 
find it easy to quote in behalf of their preconceived notions, 
but the earnest student will rather try te weigh the matter im- 


78 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


partially, retain the good he can find even in the Talmud, and 
reject what will not stand the test of God’s word.”’ 

The impartial view of the Talmud taken by modern Jewish 
scholars may be seen from the following opinion expressed by 
the late Professor Graetz in his ‘‘ History of the Jews” (vol. 
IV., 308 sq.). 

“The Talmud must not be considered as an ordinary 
literary work consisting of twelve folios; it bears not the least 
internal resemblance to a single literary production; but forms 
a world of its own which must be judged according to its own 
laws. It is, therefore, extremely difficult to furnish a specific 
sketch of the Talmud, seeing that a familiar standard or an- 
alogy is wanting. And however thoroughly a man of consum- 
mate talent may have penetrated its spirit and become con- 
versant with its peculiarities, he would scarcely succeed in such 
a task. It may, in some respects, be compared with the 
Patristic literature, which sprang up simultaneously. But 
on closer inspection, this comparison will also fail... . 

“The Talmud has at different times been variously judged 
on the most heterogeneous assumptions, it has been condemned 
and consigned to the flames; simply because it was presented 
in its unfavorable aspect without taking into consideration its 
actual merits. It cannot be denied that the Babylonian Tal- 
mud labors under some defects, like any other mental product, 
which pursues a single course with inexorable consistency and 
undeviating dogmatism. These defects may be classified under 
four heads: the Talmud contains some unessential and trival 
subjects, which it treats with much importance and a serious 
air; it has adopted from its Persian surroundings superstitious 
practices and views, which presuppose the agency of interme- 
diate spiritual beings, witchcraft, exorcising formulas, magical 
cures and interpretations of dreams and, hence, are in conflict 
with the spirit of Judaism; it further contains several uncharit- 
able utterances and provisions against members of other na- 
tions and creeds; lastly it favors a bad interpretation of Scrip- 
ture, absurd, forced and frequently false commentations. For 
these faults the whole Talmud has been held responsible and 
been denounced as a work devoted to trifles, as a source of im- 
morality and trickery, without taking into consideration that 
it is not a work of a single author who must be responsible 

















OPINIONS OF GENTILES. 79 


for every word, and if it be so, then the whole Jewish people 
was its author. Over six centuries are crystallized in the Tal- 
mud with animated distinctness, in their peculiar costumes, 
modes of speech and of thought, so to say a literary Hercula- 
neum and Pompeii, not weakened by artistic imitation, which 
transfers a colossal picture to the narrow limits of a miniature. 
It is, therefore, no wonder, if in this world sublime and mean, 
great and small, serious and ridiculous, Jewish and heathen 
elements, the altar and the ashes, are found in motley mixture. 
Those odious dicta of which Jew-haters have taken hold were 
in most cases nothing else but the utterances of a momentary 
indignation, to which an individual had given vent and which 
were preserved and embodied in the Talmud by over-zealous 
disciples, who were unwilling to omit a single expression of the 
revered ancients. But these utterances are richly counterbal- 
anced by the maxims of benevolence and philanthropy towards 
every man, regardless of creed and nationality, which are also 
preserved in the Talmud. As counterpoise to the rank super- 
stition, there are found therein sharp warnings against super- 
stitious, heathen practices (Darke Emori), to which subject a 
whole section, under the name of Perek Emorat, is devoted.* 

“The Babylonian Talmud is especially characterized and 
distinguished from the Palestinian, by high-soaring contempla- 
tions, a keen understanding, and flashes of thought which fit- 
fully dart through the mental horizon. An incalculable store 
of ideas and incentives to thinking is treasured in the Talmud, 
but not in the form of finished themes that may be appro- 
priated in a semi-somnolent state, but with the fresh coloring 
of their inception. The Babylonian Talmud leads into the 
laboratory of thought, and its ideas may be traced from their 
embryonic motion up to a giddy height, whither they at times 
soar into the region of the incomprehensible. For this reason 
it became, more than the Jerusalemean, the national property, 
the vital breath, the soul of the Jewish people cs 








* Sabbath, 66a ; Toseptha, Ch. VII., VIII. 


PART II. 
ETHICS OF THE TALMUD. 


CHAPTER I. 
TALMUDICAL ETHICS. 


“Ethics is the flower and fruit on the tree of religion. The 
ultimate aim of religion is to ennoble man’s inner and outer 
life, so that he may love and do that only which is right and 
good. This is a biblical teaching which is emphatically re- 
peated in almost every book of Sacred Scriptures. Let me 
only refer to the sublime word of the prophet Micah: ‘He hath 
showed thee, O man, what is good, and what doth the Lord re- 
quire of thee, but to do justice and to love kindness and to walk 
humbly with thy God?’ (Micah vi., 8.) 

‘* As far as concerns the Bible, its ethical teachings are gen- 
erally known. ‘Translated into all languages of the world, that 
holy book is accessible to every one and whoever reads it with 
open eyes and with an unbiased mind will admit that it teaches 
the highest principles of morality, principles which have not 
been surpassed and superseded by any ethical system of an- 
cient or modern philosophy. 

‘But how about the Talmud, that immense literary work 
whose authority was long esteemed second to that of the 
Bible? What are the ethical teachings of the Talmud? 

‘“‘ Although mainly engaged with discussions of the Law, as 
developed on the basis of the Bible during Israel’s second com- 
monwealth down to the sixth century of the Christian era, the 
Talmud devotes also much attention to ethical subjects. Not 
only are one treatise of the Mishna (Pirke Aboth) and some 
Boraithoth (as Aboth d’R. Nathan and Derech Eretz) almost 
exclusively occupied with ethical teachings, but such teachings 
are also very abundantly contained in the Hagadic (homiletical)} 

















ETHICS. 81 


passages which are so frequently interspersed in the legal dis- 
cussions throughout all parts of the Talmud.* 

‘It must be borne in mind that the Talmudical literature 
embraces a period of about eight centuries, and that the nu- 
merous teachers whose ethical views and utterances are recorded 
in that vast literature, rank differently in regard to mind and 
authority. At the side of the great luminaries, we find also 
lesser ones. At the side of utterances of great, clear-sighted 
and broad-minded masters with lofty ideas, we meet also with 
utterances of peculiar views which never obtained authority. 
Not every ethical remark or opinion quoted in that literature 
can, therefore, be regarded as an index of the standard of Tal- 
mudical ethics, but such opinions only can be so regarded 
which are expressed with authority and which are in harmony 
with the general spirit that pervades the Talmudic literature. 

‘“* Another point to be observed is the circumstance that the 
Talmud does not treat of ethics in a coherent, philosophical 
system. The Talmudic sages made no claim of being philos- 
ophers; they were public teachers, expounders of the Law, popu- 
lar lecturers. As such, they did not care for a methodically 
arranged system. All they wanted was to spread among the 
people ethical teachings in single, concise, pithy, pointed sen- 
tences, well adapted to impress the minds and hearts, or in 
parables or legends illustrating certain moral duties and virtues. 
And this, their method, fully answered its purpose. Their 
ethical teachings did actually reach the Jewish masses, and in- 
fluenced their conduct of life, while among the Greeks, the 
ethical theories and systems remained a matter that concerned 
the philosophers only, without exercising any educating influ- 
ence upon the masses at large. 

‘‘ Furthermore, it must be remembered that the Talmudical 
ethics is largely based on the ethics of the Bible. The sacred 
treasure of biblical truth and wisdom was in the minds and 
hearts of the Rabbis. This treasury they tried to enrich by 
their own wisdom and observation. Here they develop a 
principle contained in a scriptural passage, and give it a wider 





‘*® Also the Midrash, a post-Talmudic collection of extracts from popular lectures 
of the ancient teachers on biblical texts, contains an abundance of ethical teachings 
and maxims advanced by the sages of the Talmud, which must likewise be taken into 
consideration when speaking of Talmudical Ethics. 

6 


82 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


scope and a larger application to life’s various conditions. 
There they crystallize great moral ideas into a pithy, impress- 
ive maxim as a guide for human conduct. Here they give toa 
jewel of biblical ethics a new lustre by setting it in the gold of 
their own wisdom. There again they combine single pearls of 
biblical wisdom to a graceful ornament for human life.”—M. 
Mielziner. 

There are many books written upon the ethics of the Tal- 
mud which are enumerated in the bibliography. The most ex- 
cellent of these is the philosophical book of Professor Lazarus, 
‘“Ethik des Judenthums,”’ in German, Frankfort o. M., 1808, 
the first volume of which is translated into English by the Jew- 
ish Publication Society. The second volume of this work, we 
have heard, is ready for or already in print.* 

However, to enable the reader, to get an idea of the Talmud 
Ethics, without troubling him with the various books in differ- 
ent languages, an extract which was made by Mielziner shall be 
given in this book, whose selections are so excellent that practi- 
cally we have nothing to add. We, however, would call the 
attention of the reader to a book written by us in our period- 
ical Hacol, Vol. VI., Vienna, 1885 (translated into German but 
not yet published), in which the subject of love of mankind is 
explained in two parallels, that of the Talmud and that in 
which we have drawn a parallel between the conceptions of 
both Talmud and Evangelium as to the moral content of the 
principle of Love. An extract of this explanation we should 
like to give here: 

The commandment in the Old Testament (Leviticus xix., 
17): ‘‘Love thy neighbor as thyself,” the Talmud interprets 
in a negative sense by the words of Hillel, the elder, thus: ‘‘ That 
which thou likest not being done unto thyself do not unto thy 
neighbor,”’ and this rule the Talmud adopts in all the ways of 
charity, and in all affairs in which man comes in contact with 





* We cannot restrain ourselves from expressing our great sorrow over the death 
of this great man which occurred this year. He was our friend and patron, and many - 
days and weeks we had been fortunate to spend in his company, when, in 1883, we 
had the pleasure to read before him the several thousand quotations from the Talmud, 
which we had prepared for his work, ‘‘ Ethik des Judenthums,” at his request. We 
certainly do not know how many of them he has made use of. However, he wrote 
us a few years ago that our name and service would be mentioned in the second 
volume of his book. To our great sorrow he departed before the second volume was 
published. 














ETHICS. 3 83 


his fellow-man; e.g., based upon this biblical commandment 
it is forbidden to betroth a woman before seeing her, for he may 
dislike her thereafter, and as one does not wish to be disliked 
himself, he must not cause another to be disliked. And so in 
all connections with one’s neighbor, it is forbidden to do him 
any harm whatsoever, because one dislikes that he himself 
should be harmed. Also concerning the duties of charity, 
numerous special commandments are to be found in the 
Old Testament. The Talmud explains most of them nega- 
tively, viz.: “Thou shalt not leave thy neighbor to suffer any 
pain whatsoever, but thou shalt prevent it by supplying him 
with whatsoever thou canst afford.”’” However, the rich man 
is not obliged to divide his money or property with the poor, nor 
to supply him with luxuries if the poor man had not been used 
to them before ,he became poor. (More details will be found 
in each subject mentioned further on.) Hence this obligation 
which is proper and in accordance with common sense, can be 
fulfilled by every one without any difficulty. The Evangelist, 
however, interprets the passage (Levit. xix., 17) in a positive 
sense (Matt. vii., 12): ‘‘ Therefore all things whatsoever ye would 
that men should do to you, do ye even so to them, for this 
is the Law and the prophets.’”’ After a deep consideration, 
it is almost impossible for one to entirely fulfil this command- 
ment. According to this, one must divide his money and 
property with those not possessing such. ‘‘Whatsoever ye 
would that men should do to you!” Who then would not 
want to be rich and to live luxuriously ; to ride instead of going 
on foot, to be dressed in the best garments according to the 
latest style, etc.? Hence if one would like to live up to the 
words of the Evangelist, he must see that the life of his poor 
neighbor should be made exactly equal to his own life, which 
certainly can never and was never accomplished. The same 
is with the command in Luke vi., 29: ‘“‘And unto him that 
smiteth thee on the one cheek offer also the other,’’ which was 
never and will never be fulfilled, as this is against the nature of 
mankind, especially when one is in wrath whilst being beaten. 
Therefore nothing of this kind is to be found in the Talmud. 
On the contrary the Talmud says: ‘‘ He who raises his hand to 
strike his neighbor is already considered wicked even before he 
has smitten him.’’ The above-mentioned book quotes this 


84 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


parallel in every affair in which human beings come in contact 
with each other. It is remarkable that in the explanation of 
Deut. vi., 4, “‘Thou shalt love the Lord, thy God, etc.,”’ the 
Talmud also does not interpret this literally, thinking that it is 
impossible to impose upon the heart to love, especially Him 
whom one has never seen, and of whom one has not even a 
correct idea. Therefore they interpreted this passage thus, 
“The name of the Lord shall be loved through thy treatment 
of thy fellow-men, viz. ‘‘thy commerce with men should be just 
and peaceful; thy ‘ yes’ should be firm and thy ‘no’ unvariable; 
so that it should be proclaimed: ‘Hail the man who follows 
the Law of the Lord, which is Love thy fellow-men! Therefore 
let us and our children also study this magnificent Law.’ 
The result evidently is that the name of the Lord is glorified 
through thee - ‘3 

All the ethics of the Talmud are thus set up with a view to 
make their observance possible in all their particulars, which 
is not the case with the teaching of the Evangelist. 

Finally, we beg to quote the beginning of the first chapter 
of the above-mentioned book:—Abyye used to say: ‘‘One 
should be always keen in the fear of God; use meek talk, 
prevent wrath, bestow thy greeting upon every one in the 
market, even if he be a stranger. This will cause you to be 
loved by Heaven and liked by thy fellow-men.”’ It was said 
about R. Yohanan b. Zakkai, that it never happened that he 
should have been greeted first (for he was it who greeted every 
one first, as soon as he perceived him).* 





CHAPTER II. 


Let us now try to give a few outlines of the ethical 
teachings of the Talmud. In the first place, concerning 
Man As A Mora BEING. 


In accordance with the teaching of the Bible, the rabbis 
duly emphasize man’s dignity as a being created in the like- 





* This paragraph is said by Abyye in pure Bible-Hebrew, which was not the 
language used by him in every-day talk. We infer from this and also from the 
expression ‘‘ he used to say,” that he only quoted a traditional proverb which was 
established ever since the oral law had been started. 











ETHICS. 85 


ness of God. By this likeness of God they understand the 
spiritual being within us, that is endowed with intellectual and 
moral capacities. The higher desires and inspirations which 
spring from this spiritual being in man, are called Yetzer tob, 
the good inclination ; but the lower appetites and desires which 
rise from our physical nature and which we share with the 
animal creation, are termed Yetzer ha-ra, the inclination to 
evil. Not that these sensuous desires are absolutely evil; for 
they, too, have been implanted in man for good purposes. 
Without them man could not exist, he would not cultivate and 
populate this earth, or, as a Talmudical legend runs: Once, 
some over-pious people wanted to pray to God that they might 
be able to destroy the Yetzer ha-ra, but a warning voice was 
heard, saying: ‘‘ Beware, lest you destroy this world!” Evil 
are those lower desires only in that they, if unrestrained, easily 
mislead man to live contrary to the demands and aspirations of 
his divine nature. Hence the constant struggle in man be- 
tween the two inclinations. He who submits his evil inclina- 
tion to the control of his higher aims and desires is virtuous 
and righteous. “‘The righteous are governed by the Yetzer tob, 
but the wicked by the Yetzer ha-ra. The righteous have 
their desires in their power, but the wicked are in the power 
of their desires.”’ 


FREE-WILL. 


Man’s free-will is emphasized in the following sentences: 
“Everything is ordained by God’s providence, but freedom 
of choice is given to man.” ‘‘Everything is foreordained by 
heaven, except the fear of heaven,” or, as another sage puts 
it: Whether man be strong or weak, rich or poor, wise or fool- 
ish depends mostly on circumstances that surround him from 
the time of his birth, but whether man be good or bad, right- 
eous or wicked, depends upon his own free-will. 


Gop’s WILL, THE GROUND oF Man’s DUTIES. 


‘The ground of our duties, as presented to us by the Tal- 
mudical as well as the biblical teachings, is that it is the will of 
God. His will is the supreme rule of our being. ‘‘ Do His will 
as thy own will, submit thy will to His will.” “Be bold asa 


86 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


leopard, light as an eagle, swift as a roe, and strong as a lion, 
to do the will of thy Father, who is in heaven.”’ 


Man AccouNTABLE TO GOD FOR HIS CONDUCT. 


Of man’s responsibility for the conduct of his life, we are 
forcibly reminded by numerous sentences, as: “‘ Consider three 
things, and thou wilt never fall into sin; remember that there 
is above thee an all-seeing eye, an all-hearing ear, and a record 
of all thy actions.”” And again, ‘Consider three things, and 
thou wilt never sin; remember whence thou comest, whither 
thou goest, and before whom thou wilt have to render account 
for thy doings.” 


HiGHER MotTIvEs IN PERFORMING OUR DUTIES. 


Although happiness here and hereafter is promised as re- 
ward for fulfilment, and punishment threatened for neglect 
of duty, still we are reminded not to be guided by the consid- 
eration of reward and punishment, but rather by love and 
obedience to God, and by love to that which is good and noble. 
‘Be not like servants, who serve their master for the sake of 
reward.’ ‘‘Whatever thou doest, let it be done in the name 
of heaven’’ (that is, for its own sake). 


Duty oF SELF-PRESERVATION AND SELF-CULTIVATION. 


As a leading rule of the duties of self-preservation and self- 
cultivation, and, at the same time, as a warning against selfish- 
ness, we have Hillel’s sentence: “If I do not care for my- 
self, who will do it for me? and if I care only for myself, what 
am I?” 

The duty of acquiring knowledge, especially knowledge of 
the Divine Law (Torah), which gives us a clearer insight in 
God’s will to man, is most emphatically enjoined in numerous 
sentences: ‘‘ Without knowledge there is no true morality and 
piety.” ‘“‘ Be eager to acquire knowledge, it does not come to 
thee by inheritance.”’ ‘‘The more knowledge, the more spirit- 
ual life.’ ‘‘If thou hast acquired knowledge, what dost thou 
lack? but if thou lackest knowledge, what hast thou acquired ?”’ 














ETHICS. 87 


But we are also reminded that even the highest knowledge is 
of no value, as long as it does not influence our moral life. ‘‘ The 
ultimate end of all knowledge and wisdom is man’s inner puri- 
fication and the performance of good and noble deeds.”’ ‘‘He 
whose knowledge is great without influencing his moral life is 
compared to a tree that has many branches, but few and weak 
roots; a storm cometh and overturneth it.”’ 


LABOR. 


Next to the duty of acquiring knowledge, that of industrious 
labor and useful activity is strongly enjoined. It is well known 
that among the ancient nations in general manual labor was 
regarded as degrading the free citizen. Even the greatest philos- 
ophers of antiquity, Plato and Aristotle, could not free them- 
selves of this deprecating view of labor. How different was the 
view of the Talmudic sages in this respect! They say: “‘ Love 
labor, and hate to bea lord.’’ “Great is the dignity of labor; it 
honors man.” “Beautiful is the intellectual occupation, if 
combined with some practical work.” ‘‘He who does not 
teach his son a handicraft trade, neglects his parental duty.” 
‘“‘He who lives on the toil of his hands is greater than he who 
indulges in idle piety.”’ 

In accordance with these teachings, some of the most 
prominent sages of the Talmud are known to have made their 
living by various kinds of handicraft and trade. 


CARDINAL DuTIES IN RELATION TO FELLOW-MEN. 


Regarding man’s relation to fellow-men, the rabbis con- 
sider justice, truthfulness, peaceableness and charity as cardinal 
duties. They say, ‘‘The world (human society) rests on three 
things—on justice, on truth and on peace.”’ 


JUSTICE. 


The principle of justice in the moral sense is expressed in 
the following rules: “‘ Thy neighbor’s property must be as sacred 
to thee as thine own.” ‘‘Thy neighbor’s honor must be as 
dear to thee as thine own.”’ Hereto belongs also the golden 


88 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


rule of Hillel: “Whatever would be hateful to thee, do not to 
thy neighbor.” 
TRUTH AND TRUTHFULNESS. 


The sacredness of truth and truthfulness is expressed in the 
sentence: “‘ Truth is the signet of God, the Most Holy.” “Let 
thy yea be in truth, and thy nay be in truth.” ‘Truth lasts 
forever, but falsehood must vanish.”’ 

Admonitions concerning fatthfulness and fidelity to given 
promises are: “‘ Promise little and do much.” ‘To be faith- 
less to a given promise is as sinful as idolatry.”’ ‘‘To break a 
verbal engagement, though legally not binding, is a moral 
wrong.” Of the numerous warnings against any kind of de- 
ceit, the following may be mentioned: “‘It is sinful to deceive 
any man, be he even a heathen.’”’ ‘Deception in words is as 
great a sin as deception in money matters.’’ When, says the 
Talmud, the immortal soul will be called to account before the 
divine tribunal, the first question will be, ‘‘ Hast thou been 
honest and faithful in all thy dealings with thy fellow-men?”’ 


PEACEFULNESS. 


Peace and harmony in domestic life and social intercourse 
as well as in public affairs are considered by the Talmudic 
sages as the first condition of human welfare and happiness, 
or as they express it: “‘ Peace is the vesselin which all God’s 
blessings are presented to us and preserved byus.” ‘‘Bea 
disciple of Aaron, loving peace, and pursuing peace.’’ To make 
peace between those in disharmony is regarded as one of the 
most meritorious works that secure happiness and bliss here 
and hereafter. 

As virtues leading to peace, those of mildness and meek- 
ness, of gentleness and placidity are highly praised and recom- 
mended. ‘‘ Be not easily moved to anger.’’ ‘‘Be humble to 
thy superior, affable to thy inferior, and meet every man with 
friendliness.”” ‘‘He who is slow to anger, and easily pacified, 
is truly. pious and virtuous.” ‘‘ Man, be ever soft and pliant 
like a reed, and not hard and unbending like the cedar.” 
“Those who, when offended, do not give offence, when hearing 
slighting remarks, do not retaliate—they are the friends of 
God, they shall shine forth like the sun in its glory.”’ 











ETHICS. . 89 


CHARITY. 


The last of the principal duties to fellow-men is charity, 
which begins where justice leaves off. Professor Steinthal, in his 
work on General Ethics, remarks that among the cardinal vir- 
tues of the ancient philosophers we look in vain for the idea 
of love and charity, whereas in the teachings of the Bible, we 
generally find the idea of love, mercy and charity closely con- 
nected with that of justice. And we may add, as in the Bible 
so also in the Talmud, where charity is considered as the highest 
degree in the scale of duties and virtues. It is one of the main 
pillars on which the welfare of the human world rests. 

The duty of charity (Gemilath Chesed) extends farther than 
to mere almsgiving (Tzedaka). ‘“‘Almsgiving is practised by 
means of money, but charity also by personal services and 
by words of advice, sympathy and encouragement. Alms- 
giving is a duty towards the poor only, but charity towards 
the rich as well as the poor, nay, even towards the dead (by 
taking care of their decent burial).”’ 

By works of charity man proves to be a true image of God, 
whose attributes are love, kindness and mercy. ‘“‘He who 
turns away from works of love, and charity turns away from 
God.” ‘‘The works of charity have more value than sacrifices ; 
they are equal to the performance of all religious duties.” 

Concerning the proper way of practising this virtue, the 
Talmud has many beautiful sentences, as: ‘‘ The merit of chari- 
table works is in proportion to the love with which they are 
practised.’’ ‘‘ Blessed is he who gives from his substance to 
the poor, twice blessed he who accompanies his gift with kind, 
comforting words.’ ‘‘The noblest of all charities is enabling 
the poor to earn a livelihood.”” He who is unable to give much 
shall not withold his little mite, for “‘as a garment is made up 
of single threads, so every single gift contributes to accom- 
plish a great work of charity.” 


DUTIES CONCERNING SPECIAL RELATIONS. 


Besides these principal duties in relation to fellow-men in 
general, the Talmud treats also very elaborately of duties con- 
cerning the various relations of life. Not intending to enter 


go THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


here into all details, we shall restrict ourselves to some of its 
ethical teachings in reference to the domestic relations, and 
regarding the relation to the country and the community. 


THE CONJUGAL RELATION. 


“First build a house and plant a vineyard (2.e., provide 
for the means of the household), and then take a wife.”’ ‘‘ Let 
youth and old age not be joined in marriage, lest the purity 
and peace of domestic life be disturbed.’’ ‘‘A man’s home 
means his wife.” ‘‘ Let a man be careful to honor his wife, for 
he owes to her alone all the blessings of his house.” ‘‘If thy 
wife is small, bend down to her, to take counsel from her.’’ 
‘““Who is rich? He who has a noble wife.’”’ ‘‘A man should be 
careful lest he afflict his wife, for God counts her tears.”’ ‘If 
in anger the one hand removed thy wife or thy child, let the 
other hand again bring them back to thy heart.’’ ‘‘He who 
loves his wife as his own self, and honors her more than him- 
self, and he who educates his children in the right way, to him 
applies the divine promise: Thou shalt know that there is 
peace in thy tent.”” ‘Tears are shed on God’s altar for the 
one who forsakes the wife of his youth.” ‘‘He who divorces 
his wife, is hated before God.”’ 


PARENTS AND CHILDREN. 


“Parental love should be impartial, one child must not be 
preferred to the other.” “It is a father’s duty not only to 
provide for his minor children, but also to take care of their 
instruction, and to teach his son a trade and whatever is neces- 
sary for his future welfare.’ ‘‘The honor and reverence due 
to parents are equal to the honor and reverence due to God.” 
‘‘Where children honor their parents, there God dwells, there 
He is honored.” 


CoUNTRY AND COMMUNITY. 


Regarding duties to the country and the community, the 
Rabbis teach: ‘‘ The law of the country is as sacred and bind- 
ing as God’s law.”’ ‘Pray for the welfare of the government ; 
without respect for the government, men would swallow each 








ETHICS. gI 


other.” ‘‘Do not isolate thyself from the community and its 
interests.’ ‘“‘It is sinful to deceive the government regard- 
ing taxes and duties.” “Do not aspire for public offices; 
but where there are no men, try thou to be the man.”’ ‘‘ Those 
who work for the community shall do it without selfishness, 
but with the pure intention to promote its welfare.” 


GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS. 


To these short outlines of Talmudical ethics let us add only 
a few general remarks. Being essentially a development of 
the sublime ethical principles and teachings of the Bible, the 
Talmudical ethics retains the general characteristics of that 
origin. 

It teaches nothing that is against human nature, nothing 
that is incompatible with the existence and welfare of human 
society. It is free from the extreme excess and austerity to 
which the lofty ideas of religion and morality were carried by 
the theories and practices of some sects inside and outside of 
Judaism. 

Nay, many Talmudical maxims and sayings are evidently 
directed against such austerities and extravagances. Thus 
they warn against the monastic idea of obtaining closer com- 
munion with God by fleeing from human society and by seclu- 
sion from temporal concerns of life: ‘‘Do not separate thyself 
from society.”” ‘‘Man’s thoughts and ways shall always be in 
contact and sympathy with fellow-men.’”’ “No one shall de- 
part from the general customs and manners.” “Better is he 
who lives on the toil of his hand, than he who indulges in idle 
piety.” 

They strongly discountenance the idea of celibacy, which 
the Essenes, and later, some orders of the Church regarded as 
a superior state of perfection. The rabbis say: “‘ He who lives 


without a wife is no perfect man.’’ ‘‘To be unmarried is to 
live without joy, without blessing, without kindness, without 
religion and without peace.”” ‘‘As soon as man marries, his 


sins decrease.” 

While, on the one hand, they warn against too much indul- 
gence in pleasures and in the gratification of bodily appetites 
and against the insatiable pursuit of earthly goods and riches, 


92 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


as well as against the inordinate desire of honor and power, on 
the other hand, they strongly disapprove of the ascetic morti- 
tification of the body and abstinence from enjoyment, and the 
cynic contempt of all luxuries that beautify life. They say: 
‘““God’s commandments are intended to enhance the value 
and enjoyment of life, but not to mar it and make it gloomy.” 
“Tf thou hast the means, enjoy life’s innocent pleasures.’ “‘ He 
who denies himself the use of wine is a sinner.”’ ‘No one is 
permitted to afflict himself by unnecessary fasting.” ‘‘ The pious 
fool, the hypocrite, and the pharisaic flagellant are destroyers 
of human society.”’ ‘‘That which beautifies life and gives it 
vigor and strength, just as riches and honor, is suitable to the 
pious, and agreeable to the world at large.” 

Finally, one more remark: The Talmud has often been ac- 
cused of being illiberal, as if teaching its duties only for Jews 
towards fellow-believers, but not also towards fellow-men in 
general. This charge is entirely unfounded. It is true, and 
quite natural, that in regard to the ritual and ceremonial law 
and practice, a distinction between Jew and Gentile was made. 
It is also true that we occasionally meet in the Talmud with 
an uncharitable utterance against the heathen world. But it 
must be remembered in what state of moral corruption and deg- 
radation their heathen surroundings were, at that time. And 
this, too, must be remembered, that such utterances are only 
made by individuals who gave vent to their indignation in 
view of the cruel persecutions whose victims they were. As 
regards moral teachings, the Talmud is as broad as humanity. 
It teaches duties of man to man without distinction of creed 
and race. In most of the ethical maxims, the terms Adam 
and Bertyot, ‘“‘man,”’ ‘‘fellow-men,”’ are emphatically used; as: 
“Do not despise any man.” “Judge every man from his 
favorable side.’’ ‘‘Seek peace, and love fellow-men.” ‘‘He 
who is pleasing to fellow-men is also pleasing to God.” “‘ The 
right way for man to choose is to do that which is honorable 
in his own eyes (2.e., approved by his conscience) and at the 
same time honorable in the eyes of his fellow-men.’’ In some 
instances, the Talmud expressly reminds that the duties of 
justice, veracity, peacefulness and charity are to be fulfilled 
towards the heathen as wellas to the Israelites ;as, ‘‘Itis sinful 
to deceive any man, be he even a heathen.’ It is our duty to 





ETHICS. 93 


relieve the poor and needy, to visit the sick and bury the dead 
without distinction of creed and race.” 

“Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself’’ (Lev. xix., 18); 
this is, said R. Akiba, the all-embracing principle of the divine 
law. But Ben Azaz said, there is another passage in Scrip- 
tures still more embracing; it is the passage (Gen. v., 2): “‘ This 
is the book of the generations of man; in the day that God 
created man, he made him in the likeness of God.’’ That sage 
meant to say, this passage is more embracing, since it clearly 
tells us who is our neighbor ; not, as it might be misunderstood, 
our friend only, not our fellow-citizen only, not our co-religion- 
ist only, but since we all descend from a common ancestor, 
since all are created in the image and likeness of God, every 
man, every human being is our brother, our neighbor whom 
we shall love as ourselves. 

The liberal spirit of Talmudic ethics is most strikingly 
evidenced in the sentence: ‘‘The pious and virtuous of all 
nations participate in the eternal bliss,’’ which teaches that 
man’s salvation depends not on the acceptance of certain 
articles of belief, nor on certain ceremonial observances, but 
on that which is the ultimate aim of religion namely, Morality, 
purity of heart and holiness of life. 


PART III. 


METHOD. 


The Method of our Translation into English of our Revised 
Text in the ‘“‘ New Edttion.”’ 


After having submitted the text of the Talmud to a thor- 
ough review, and carried out the corrections thus found 
necessary, we have come down to the conclusion that the 
translation of the Talmud into English in this corrected form 
would be although not one of the easiest, but a possible task. * 
Thus we made up our mind to start this task, having considered 
as our leading principle to carry it out in a manner that should 
facilitate the understanding of the Talmud to such English 
readers as are not conversant with the Hebrew text. There- 
fore we did not care to give the discussions of the Mishnas, 
Tosephtas and Boraithas which the Gemara quotes for the 
purpose of a contradiction, objection, or comparison with a 
distinguishing expression, as we thought it is immaterial for 
the English reader. The method of the Gemara, however, is to 
distinguish the expressions for the purpose of letting the 
reader know whether the quotation is from a Mishna, To- 
sephta, or Boraitha, or was only said by the Amoraim, the ex- 
pounders of the Mishna, viz.: (1) Tenan, for the quotation of 
a Mishna; (2) Tania, for the quotation of a Tosephta or a 
Boraitha; (3) [temar, for the quotation of that which was said 
by the Amoraim. Therefore in the first volume of our editions, 
for all the quotations we have used only one expression, ‘‘ we 
have learned,’’ or “it was taught.’’ However, after we were 
criticised for this, we also adopted a method of distinguishing 
the quotations, which is printed in the Explanatory Remarks 
to each volume; namely: Remark 1. For a quotation from the 
Mishna, ‘‘we have learned in a Mishna,” fora Tosephta or a 





* See letter of Dr. M. Jastrow in the prospectus of our work, on page 10. 








| 
| 


OUR METHOD. 95 


Boraitha, “‘ we have learned in a Tosephta or a Boraitha,’’ and 
for the sayings of the Amoraim, “it was taught.’”” Thus have we 
also corrected in the second edition of the first and the fourth 
volumes: Remark 2. To save space we did not adopt the 
method of the German translators who usually write question 
and answer to each paragraph where such is to be found; we 
have indicated the question by an interrogation point, and im- 
mediately follows the answer without being so marked. Com- 
ing to the third explanatory remark, in which we say that we 
translate only the second, we have to give here this ex- 
planation at length, as this treats about omissions from the 
text in the translation. 

In our Hakol, vol. VI., No. 298, 1885, in which we an- 
nounced that we desire to revise and correct the Talmud so as 
to make its translation possible into a living language, we gave 
some examples of the omissions necessary in Halakha and 
Hagada for this purpose. And we dare say that the examples 
were favorably received by eminent students of the Tal- 
mud. Asan answer to another criticism in a Hebrew monthly 
in New York, Ner Hamarobe, we wrote a long article in the 
same about our method of the omissions in Halakha, claiming 
that in reality we omut nothing of importance of the whole 
text, in the shape given out by its compilers, and only that 
which we were certain to have been added by the dislikers of 
the Talmud for the purpose of degrading it we do omit. We 
cannot very well translate the whole article here for lack of 
space and time. We will therefore limit ourselves to pointing 
out the omissions of Halakha and Hagada with one or two 
examples: (1) Omitting repetitions, e.g., in Tract Kethuboth 
72b, there is a Mishna, “if one betroths a woman with the 
stipulation that she is not subject to any vows,” and the whole 
Mishna with its Gemara is repeated in Tract Kedushin 58, 
without any change, and the Gemara to this Mishnayoth 
questions why the repetition? To which the same answer, 
“it was learned by the way,”’ is repeated in both tracts. In 
our edition the Mishna will appear only once, in Tract Kedu- 
shin, and it is self-evident that the question and the answer 
of the Gemara falls off. However, the continuation which is 
of importance comes in the proper place. This is concerning 
the Mishnayoth. The discussions in the Gemara are repeated 


96 ; THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


sometimes from one to fifteen times, some of them without any 
change at all, and some with change of little or no importance. 
In our edition we give the discussion only once, in its proper 
place. True, it is a great difficulty to go over all the repetitions, 
to mark the changes wherever they are, and to consider the 
matter thoroughly as to which is the most proper place for 
them. However, we did not spare time and careful study. 
And according to our ability we left it at the place which 
seemed to us to be proper and cancelling all other repetitions.* 
(2) There is a custom in the text when it brings a statement 
from an Amora (very seldom also from a Tana) which is in 
conflict with a Mishna or a Boraitha, and trying to reconcile 
them by a long discussion, and after it comes to the conclusion 
that such a reconciliation is impossible, it concludes that “‘if 
such was taught it must be so and so,’”’ contrary to the first 
statement. We in our edition translate only the conclusion, 
omitting the whole discussion, which partly or wholly is to 
be found elsewhere. (Examples of this are given in our above- 
mentioned article, and as they are very numerous, we cannot 
give them here). (3) Where there are two versions in the 
text under the term Lishna achrena (another version), or 
Ika d’amri (some say), or Watbayith Aema (if you wish, we 
may say), and the second is contrary or entirely different from 
the first, we mostly give the second only. However, we are 
very careful in omitting such. (See our concluding words 
in Vol. XVII., page 8), and as to the last phrase, Wazbayith 
Aema, which in many places is said twice or thrice, the reader 
will find all of them translated in our translation, under the 
term, ‘‘if you wish it may be said so, and if you wish, it may 
be said so.’’ (4) The reader will find in our edition foot-notes 
stating, ‘‘transferred from tract so and so,” in Halakha as well 
as in Hagada. We do so when the subject treated is inserted 
in a place where it is disconnected with the preceding and 
following statement; however, there is a special discussion 
about the same subject in another tract. (Concerning Hagada 
we did so in Tract Sanhedrin, transferring Hagadas which have 





* In our edition, if such an omission comes from that which was already printed, 
we mark it in parentheses or in a foot-note: ‘‘ repeated from tract or from volume so 
and so, page so and so,” which we could not do with the text which was not as yet 
translated. 








OUR METHOD. 97 


no connection in the preceding chapters, to the last (eleventh) 
chapter which is all Hagada. This is done for the purpose of 
preventing confusion in the reader’s mind, which, while engaged 
in one subject, is abruptly confronted with a strange subject. 
(5) In a very few places we combine two Mishnayoths which 
are united in the editions of the separate Mishnayoths, but are 
divided in the Gemara into two or three (see Nedarim 32b and 
33a), to which the Gemara questions “‘in accordance with what 
Tana the statement of this Mishna is given,’’? and answers 
‘in accordance with so and so,’’ and the same it does with the 
divided Mishna with the same question and answer. (6) In 
places where the Gemara discusses in a long paragraph, “how 
was the case? Shall we assume so, then such a statement would 
be in the way, and if we assume so, another statement of so and 
so would be in the way,” etc. The conclusion, however, is 
explained clearly and nicely. In such cases we often translate 
the conclusion only, omitting the discussion, which seems to 
us to be inserted only for the purpose of sharpening the mind. 
(However, we are very careful with such omissions, and if we 
see in them something of importance, we do not omit them.) 
To this point, may be added then that all the discussions usual 
in the Gemara why the Tana or the Amora A does not say like B, 
and why B does not say like C, and C like D, and then why D 
does not say like C, B, and A, etc. After then when the reason 
is given why A does not say like B, and B like C, it is again 
asked why should A not adopt the reason of B, etc., etc. We 
then give only the questions and answers of the first category, 
viz., why does not A agree with B and C, and B and C with A. 
We omit, however, the second category of the questions and 
answers for not adopting the reasons, which in many places 
occupy a whole column and after reading it, we do not find 
anything new or important, but simply repetitions after repeti- 
tions which confuse the mind.of the reader without doing any 
good. (7) Questions which remain undecided and many of 
them are not at all practical but only imaginary, and very 
peculiar too,* we omit. Many of such questions were ascribed 
to the Amora Jeremiah, of whom Rabha said that, ‘“‘ When he 
was in Babylonia he never understood what the Rabbis said.” 





* Z.g., nop abypmi aamyodpa, the translation of which we do not care to give. 
7 


98 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


When he (Jeremiah) came to Palestine he expressed himself 
concerning the Babylonian scholars thus: “The Babylonians 
who are dwelling in a dark land are proclaiming dark Hala- 
khath.”’ It is the same to us if Jeremiah questioned the above- 
mentioned questions at the time he did not understand the 
Rabbis, or, as I. H. Weiss said, that he intended with such 
questions to ridicule the Rabbis, for at any rate such questions 
must not be placed in our edition. We have good reason to say 
that all such questions were inserted in the name of Jeremiah 
or other Amoraim, by the dislikerts of the Talmud, who were to 
be found from its very beginning, for the purpose of ridiculing 
it. We cannot agree with Weiss that Jeremiah himself put 
such questions, as for a similar question: “‘If it happened that 
one has put one foot into the Sabbath limit, and the other foot 
was still out of it, may he enter or not?” he was immediately 
driven out from the college. Hence, since the other questions 
ascribed to him are much worse in every respect than the one 
just mentioned, is it possible that he would be listened to and 
such inserted as undecided questions? We would also state that 
the above statement of the dark Halakhath by the Babylonian 
sages was also put in his mouth by the same people, as we 
cannot believe that such a great Amora like Jeremiah should 
throw stones in the valley from which he drank his water. 

Finally, we will give one example concerning Hagadas, in 
Tract Zebachin, pp. 113a, in the discussion whether the flood was 
in Palestine or not, basing their statements upon Ecclesiastes, 
“there is no new thing under the sun,” z.e., no new creatures 
were created after the seven days of creation, and as there are to 
be found some creatures which, according to their size, could not 
enter into the ark of Noah, and we see their existence, it must 
be concluded that the flood which had destroyed all the crea- 
tures did not take place in Palestine, in which such creatures 
are to be found. The opponents of this say that the flood was 
in Palestine also, and of all kinds of the existing creatures, 
there were some in the ark. And when the last were objected 
to by the existence of 7’em (wild-ox), which, according to 
Rabba b. b. Hannah, the size of its offspring of one day was 
equal to forty miles, hence it could not in any way be entered 
in the ark, the answer comes that its snout only was in the ark, 
and the rest of the body was swimming in the water. 





5 : 





OUR METHOD. 99 


Now we would ask any reader if it is possible that such a 
thing should be said by any sage of the Talmud, and especially 
by Resh Lakish, who was one of the greatest Amoraim of Pales- 
tine. As this Hagada was discussed in connection with a 
Halakha it must not by any means be taken as allegorical. 
It is therefore more than certain that one who desired to make 
the Talmud ridiculous put in the mouths of Jochanan and 
Resh Lakish the discussion about the r’em with such a ridicu- 
lous answer. Hence in our translation it must be omitted. 
There is another one which was put as a question: “‘ May the 
high priest marry a pregnant virgin?’’ and to the question ‘‘ how 
can a virgin be pregnant?”’ the answer comes that ‘‘ perhaps 
she became pregnant in a bath where preceding her was a 
man who had left there his seed.””* We do not believe that 
any one with common sense, and without partiality, can be 
found who would deny that such things were inserted by the 
Talmud haters only for the purpose of ridiculing the Talmud. 
It is self-evident then that in our edition such and numerous 
similar legends do not find place. 

Concerning the translation itself, we translate almost 
literally but not slavishly. In those places where the text of 
the Gemara can be understood only with the aid of Rashi’s 
commentary, we reproduce the sense without marking ‘‘ Rashi.” 
However, in those places where Rashi adds something to 
make the text better understood, we put Rashi’s commen- 
tary in parentheses. See fifth remark on the copyrighting; 
but passages inserted from the Gemara itself we put in 
brackets. Those passages, however, which are not explained 
by Rashi or which we found the explanation more detailed in 
other commentaries, we translate according to the latter’s, 
stating in the respective foot-note that it is according to so and 
so. Our only desire was to enable the English student, even 
laymen, to understand the sense without difficulty, in which, 
according to I. M. Wise in his review of Volume VIII., we 
have succeeded. We may state also that, though we have 
strictly followed our method, yet we were compelled in some 
places to deviate from the same. It was also impossible for 
us to arrange our new edition in accordance with the old edi- 





* It seems to us that such were inserted by one against the belief that the Virgin 
Mary had borne Jesus. 


100 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


tion; based upon the decision of Sherira Gaon that it is im- 
material in what order the tracts should be brought, as the 
Gemara itself states that the consecutive order of the Mishna 
is not always to be taken seriously. However, each tract is 
numbered from page 1, so that if the reader prefers binding 
the tracts according to the former order he may do so. There 
are, however, many more points concerning our method which 
we omit for lack of space and time, especially since the method 
is fully traced in its main features. 


.. eee 





n> SY'SD 833 


SIV DID MINS ON 


may y aa n 
myn a> 0°H1° 19.9999 99> Ay op PDS dc jMOP NYE Pron fomD oISNT * OP ASD pNT AD Ad 


me 87) oe 77 Adon 197 9 fn» ph 
meh PY? poo prod "79 opy TodSd O81 yh7 
ors oe fp “fh hor n’fr* ov 26 sph Opp Of : 1795 * pys79 : 

> 29 mh» “7 dy op. iin “7 
. $20 orgy om pond * D7. 
5B OME Sw59h NO * ONS DIPS 
BBE ets oder jis or NON 
roolg OY POD MH oipp fide ie 0°31) SIT NANT PID" 7 RIOR 
pes ano (79-7) 9995.6p\h72 Inh Sy ndyr sor ams pax wrt Ty Joy AM 
rp vrig-0D 19 INH Wp 2s) NWT RON VEIT ON NY ys 
Po 19 "B SHIDO OID ODT I) Ow pam’DD IND NID DN IN NIT NDT DN 
309) Mhy voh 
:999 3" J 99 99 89 si 















ws opso7N*Ar mr Apdns 
909 9 2. SPMD PI SN) OM TY 7 INN IY poor pso'p ovyA Sys 
woe HOG 97 HOP YDS API TY IN TNT ROD IM 
‘= PE 53 9033 pio Ar Anos NT Ad Ds iy qnan > Adps yy 
opamp 7 PAE °2 IO WH. OVD ID TDW NPD ODD NINN, WIND Ide 13ST 
roy ve 3903) 8 ASO IAM APOT INNS Jnsn aM AD 
< que 0s ‘RDI AMID NS *DI ID Md ep xp "YY 
by ATWOID AT 99 WR NID TD) 
BED 5 1 Ie HS ys POI NWA 
robe NIA a AMDo ph Pymopen mw aM NI Ww NT 
Pe Em TMD ROM NDS M9 JAI? 3 17° NTN NNT BIT IDO TU 
7 me ¥313 Ww 3sp3 xox nN YS pst fa NST 1D 194K 
ec fomp NOS 2, JD"? MINA 3D NWN RIT, MITT 3'D TI RIT *979D 
pew ry OTOS ROR AMIN YS wpPIT MAD NNdT. RPO NN NSN 
3" o¢ YD NOVO 1D [M3 AD'S MIO: RM FOND WIR NI DIN 
Np SYN I Bmp: > nat an mows md mT AD Sot ayy 
be mp WOW PUN TTI ST WD 939 IT PIE ID WY ND YT 
yew vo meow nin mde nad sw o> ont nan San ome oo 
THD OE IW ROO PIN RW ND TSN TY RIM 995 IMR OY PD 
OP, Desoaw or sow wee moms mri Sind 9 TR NR Sy37 
ewes PX Pox wma 133" * AIM SAD WW TP D9 TT SN 13 
oer TIN YYW ID sm me oo 7m (Mw) 1D 7D Ne 79 DNDwAN 
WIPID2 |ND WN WIS JR NWP ND Aor D9 7X MID IM) Rw 
ppp my (Qa fi ovotn WS AHI RAW Sew tay sd POR wip 2 SY 
oom NOT 3M wpa wn Va aNdon Sy nox Sind gsr See 
oo QDR RII /T INND Srp 55 (3 fw) wns singt NS Seow *erD: 
Yoorsh (1 opm) MNT MIR PO WOR NA SID YS KO Owe MRD wy 
ib reo kook 2 owe ong (2 6) a enSm ons ew" 
ap 2p NIWONIW NY DIT ORI CIPO RIAN NIN NIM DTT 1D) ONMYS 
~p 13 RO xS53 por ents pa Swe RNY NgnwN XD ig 
aotony RT Ra SRI wes Rw wD NOW RMOND AMDT rt 1D 
veoh ‘on J's XSvSD pray no's, p35 * any onsen wd xD y nyt 
beanbrvo INN RO Iw wIpDs wd) Nw wIpDs Ww” TON ROT RT ID 
MP TD NT IDI NNSA PID 13? 19" NIZA INT NY TBND 7939 
22 O'@ RON MIND NYS NOW IN NS woh pa MD NNT 
O70P SP B37 IO ND MD ROTAN NON DS IER NDT”! MD NO 





5 
ao pep 2X7 UST Tne Br pers $s? oho Sy PSR 
oven DNR ne RT Se Son eS oR onD si ceSw San se 
> MPD NOR ‘O32 °3Y “3wD 


ROW UNT, PIO WD "YON ON NDI ION 
ame ob 
TAS? DIY PID MI" > PSD P91" 


99 9197 99% diE9 thy 1d PMN yD O1d19 yPo Of 
¥y finya for pn.23 827297 Apap Jo 197 ba han 


odd Adio 29 19997 Od 
oynp «= ond ASD 


“of7 yp Apso“ bpniby |? 


129 Dh Apwnih7 poh 
o4h) D2DNID ‘Ory OND 
393) JP OYTDY ND 
193 * POH) PD : OND: 
* PW 2 DD pM OVS 
PM) 2 IDdh As Iw 
pn mh o° 11996 
2 9507 P79 pM 981 1924 
2 of: od wen mips 
Oy's Odys9 13 on 
dA 93 9D198 Oby3 d'DED 
wh pM : AD pop 
IME OF ° NI HTN ID 
nih 919 939 7219998 Ip 
Dih 721 Jo. 95N2) 9976 
On2 VI 19° 53H 529 4'3 
*Y35 SNI23 ON1 PAS 

"1 PND OMey nn che 
3pm) PH Mp 2d ws 
9p 21h Ald: 193 IN? 
Dp) won oni ° pr 
yor: 40> AE mobo’ 
WHIT © DAD WD a la 
qP 2 MEAD phe 2 
MD DIN DP? Ards * Of 


m5 95 wn? A of Ato S98 


* DIND MND 2 VT pon 
* ODN: 13 NSP pace 
“195 Sg tipih pASD 
Inf 39° 5 "9 :/na3 tn" 
yostsn ° ods 21m)! 
9 735-0f YM oNDE0 
oun? 7345 ys" ofr OW. 
9nd oy MN * pds . 
symp Dh 3h of 
om 969537 Top Aona39 
>“ 1D) Nd pIDS 7° 
13, ASwos * CIP D5. “P99 
7 H9 49 oe oT3h 
IIND79 Hi” 19 INT 99 
oo fs) 


es 


* poe 
i) 


“DIES "D 


339 on 


A hoch hom 


f¥ oss 4h kn 


> ODS WH pops pwe “ 


Sorey S236 soot 
WOANIT sy * Oot ys 
BY On 19 jorD bo3 
Toss. OSIM OWNED 
foo Hr 97 j199 3% 
* body pint: fospon 
2 ONES Osi 1) CY pS 


rate DOD TPN OF MIN OAS OF * MDD Ards sooM ODD HH pIoG 4937 9° 139" Bory * dow vos 
m2’? IDND3 AIO EY PID 92 VIN OTHOE 73H ON N23 yw) TMH oy DIOS 70°) 1979519 Hd Yoh ASD. 


gE WD) Th 925.9931 jo Ob wD wh * NIN APTA To 


DIDe P25. pA spASN® Of pdt 


vp rw J) IPH Hers oF * tr9v0.4) : np} Hos Ho Anaids1 175 Mo do Of OMANS ID) Hr ‘DD spd 


$39 fa.e21 snd Iho 
"P. a fds 17> opArSnd fio da9 op oid » 
£9 Dd of 


ersh ‘op 
9 man 


PA np} 6 }h> dan tor ps9203 ° onIh : OD AIDE * 7 
1 PAS O73 * OND Irvh dS : SD JM dard Ody nt 
2 AD S37 1c p94 fs 539 dp THO Ts? 
4 


Sa9 : ons 


ILLUSTRATION OF THE CORRECTED TEXT OF THE BABYLONIAN TALMUD FROM 
WHICH THE TRANSLATION INTO ENGLISH WAS MADE. 





PART IV. 


CRITICISM. 


In our table of contents to this history announced in the 
prospectus issued in 1897, we have inserted ‘‘A Reply to some 
Criticism.’”” This would be in place if this history had been 
published at the time when the criticism was still new. Now, 
however, after the lapse of six years, during which new proper 
criticism has not appeared, a reply to what is almost forgotten 
would be out of place. We, however, cannot restrain our- 
selves to say a few words about criticism in general, and about 
our edition in special. In our opinion, true criticism must, 
drive only to the point, 7z.e., the critic has to show the author 
his mistakes and errors in such and such point, page or para- 
graph, based upon undoubted or uncontradictory evidence, or 
common sense, taking care, however, to avoid partiality and 
personality. Otherwise it is not criticism but attack. In our 
introduction to Vol. VII., we expressed our anxiety to face a 
true criticism, which has not appeared thus far as aught we 
‘know. As what concerns the criticism which appeared after 
the issue of the first volume, the same may be classified in 
three categories: 

(a) Personality against the reviser of the first volume or 
against ourself. (b) Opposition on the part of those who dis- 
liked for some reason the idea of the Talmud being translated in 
any living language, no matter which; and (c) the views ex- 
pressed by ignoramuses in all that concerns the Talmud and its 
study. It seems to us that a discussion would not persuade 
either of the three categories, as they indulged only in attacks 
lacking real evidence, nay, even a basis of probability on which 
they might have rested ; e.g., there were some who claimed that 
our edition is not scientifically arranged, our omissions mutila- 
ting the whole text at large; but these did not care to give any 
example, which might have served them as evidence. 


102 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


Now, concerning the scientific point of view, we hold that no 
translation of the Talmud could answer the requirements of a 
scientific work, as the Talmud itself is nothing but a chaotic 
mass lacking any scientific order, and should a translator 
follow scientific tracks, the result of his work would be a 
treatise on, but not a translation of, the Talmud. And, as 
what regards the so-called mutilations, since no example was 
given, we cannot enter any discussion as to them. Our method 
was already clearly explained in a lengthy article in Hebrew, 
out of which it might have appeared that our method consists 
in these very mutilations, and if after that anybody accuses 
us of mutilating the text we have nothing to say but let him 
try to invent a better method. 

However, regarding the criticism of the spelling of some 
ancient names, which we were not very careful about, and 
also as to the distinguishing of the quotations from divers 
Mishnas, Boraithas, etc., we have gratefully admitted its truth 
and accordingly corrected in the succeeding volumes as well as 
in the second edition of the first volume, as it can be seen in our 
answer to these criticisms in the American Hebrew, July 
29, 1896, which the critic himself admitted thereafter that 
it was a gentlemanly answer, though it could not induce him 
to deny his policy. And what concerns other criticisms of 
the above categories we may conscientiously say that they 
were not worthy of any consideration whatsoever, as their 
basis was the very criticism of this prominent scholar, who en- 
couraged them to attack, to scold, and to make use of any ex- 
pression which is fit to disqualify the work at large in the eyes 
of its supporters.* As an evidence to this latter statement we 





* To our great sorrow we must confess that they have succeeded in harming us 
both materially and morally. The material harm was that, as an immediate result 
of their attacks, an enormous amount of financial support had been refused to us. 
The moral harm they caused us was that, being at loss of the necessary funds, we 
could not submit our work to competent men for revising, and so the whole gigantic 
labor of issuing all which has been printed so far was carried out only through our 
own endeavors, to which no assistance, moral or material, was given us on the part 
of anybody. And with all our modesty we may say that, had we not been so energetic 
and strong-minded, our attackers would have succeeded in destroying the whole plan 
and annihilating the publication of our work. A great authority and most influential 
man in this city, seeing our struggles and troubles after we had already issued several 
volumes, offered us $6,000 as financial aid for the duration of three years, so as to 
complete the translation in this period and to submit to him afterwards the whole 
manuscript, for which he was willing to take the trouble upon himself to find a pub- 





CRITICISM. 103 


beg to quote the editorial of The American Israelite, Septem- 
ber 19, 1901. 

“The complaint voiced through the Jewish press that Rod- 
kinson’s translation of the Talmud is not receiving the support 
which its merits deserve is very much in the nature of self- 
accusation. The truth is that the great undertaking has never 
been able to overcome the onslaught originally made upon it. 
Recognizing its great value, the late editor of this paper gave ° 
to the work from its initial conception his earnest encourage- 
ment and support, which, instead of being seconded by the 
Jewish press and rabbinate, was met by a torrent of abuse and 
misrepresentation. Now that his foresight has been justified, 
and the former detractors of the work complain that Jewish 
support is lacking, they have a chance to contemplate their own 
doings. If the example set by the late editor of this paper 
had been emulated instead of neglected and derided, there 
would not now be occasion to charge the Jewish public with 
want of appreciation. 

‘Tt was not among Jews alone that the insensate opposition 
to Dr. Rodkinson’s difficult project was met with. As is per- 
fectly natural, the non-Jewish press depended largely upon 
Jewish sources for their information in regard to the work, and 
therefore reflected the unfavorable opinions expressed by sup- 
posed Jewish authorities. As soon as unbiased reviewers were 





lisher who would undertake to publish it upon the plan of royalty. The above 
amount he calculated to obtain of three philanthropists, two Gentiles and one Hebrew. 
We, however, having conjectured who the Hebrew philanthropist might be, told him 
that if he meant Mr. , he was mistaken, for he is already influenced by the 
critics and therefore would not support this work. In fact, it was so, and the pro- 
fessor was reduced to drop the whole plan. 

This case was not the only one. There was another professor who promised to 
subscribe for twenty sets of our work for the purpose of distributing them among his 
friends. It was again the critic that prevented him from doing so. 

The Jewish Publication Society of America, whose aim it is to help authors in 
issuing their works, and who are constantly doing so, have not assisted us with a sin- 
gle cent, in spite of the fact that all the above-mentioned critics but one had not only 
retracted from and moderated their first statements, but afterwards wrote favorably 
about our translation in different periodicals and private letters, as can be seen from 
the press comments, which will be placed on the last pages of this work. 

One cannot imagine our struggles and troubles at each issue of the volumes, and 
it is only our ideal that the edition of the Talmud should be completed which spurs 
us to continue. We rely upon the divine help, that it will not cease to grant us 
further on the assistance which it has lent us to the completion of the two large sec- 
tions issued by us, 





104 THE HISTORY OF THE TALMUD. 


made aware of its merits, they changed their unfavorable atti- 
tude, but it was too late to overcome the prejudice created by 
the first impression. To-day the non-fewish press recognizes 
that it was misled into antagonizing the work, and speaks of tt as 
a most tmportant contribution to the world’s stock of knowledge, 
but it certainly must be disheartening to its editor and his pub- 
lishers to convince possible purchasers that the authorities 
upon which they depend for information have experienced a 
change of heart. It is an old story, that with one moment’s 
start a lie will not be overtaken by its refutation in a thousand 
years. It is impossible to wholly right the wrong, but at least 
amends can be made by those who through ignorance or malice © 
misrepresented Dr. Rodkinson’s great undertaking, and it is 
not by taking a fling at the Jews that this is to be accomplished. 
It is safe to classify the Jews as average human beings, who are 
neither better nor worse than the rest of mankind, and taking 
them as such, the proportion among them who encourage Jew- 
ish letters will not be found to fall below what can rightly be 
expected. This statement, however, does not include the 
Jews who have been blessed with superabundant riches, for the 
members of that class have not in this country given to Jewish 
literature the same support so common among the men of 
wealth who enable the literature of Christianity to be spread 
broadcast over the world.” 





APPENDIX TO CHAPTER II., page 24 


We have to repeat again that we do not see any reason why the 
more prominent sages should not be mentioned. To quote all of 
those omitted, both of Tanaim and Amoraim, with the sources 
where they are taken from would take a whole volume and we also 
would not like to devise an entirely new arrangement contrary to 
Strack, Mielziner and others whose authority we respect. However, 
we cannot refrain from calling the attention of students to the fact 
that after a good deal of deliberation and search we cannot find any 
reason why the most prominent sages should not be placed among 
the founders of the Talmud. 

Take, for instance, Abtulmus, who is mentioned in Tract Erubin, 
Chapter III., Mishna 4, who, according to R. Jose, testified in the 
name of five elders, etc., and who is also mentioned several times in 
the Gemara and is not identical with Abtalyon who was in an 
earlier time. Take also Baba b’ Buta who, was in the time of Herod 
the Great, and who was a disciple of Shamai and cannot be counted 
of his school as he was of those who were troubling themselves to 
establish the Halakha in accordance with the school of Hillel and 
whom the Talmud put up as an example of morality. (See 
Weiss ‘‘ Geschichte der jiidichen Tradition,” Vol. I., p. 168. 

We also do not find among them Elazai b. Arach, whom we have 
added, the distinguished one of the five disciples of R. Johanan b. 
Zakkai, and also no mention of b. Bag Bag, b. Haij Haij, b. Buchre, 
and. Papus b. Jehudah. The contemporaries of these were Jo- 
hanan b. Zakkai, Jehudah b. Bathyra, etc., etc., all of whom are 
mentioned in the Mishnayoth as great authorities, who according 
to our opinion ought to be placed among the Tanaim, founders of the 


Mishna. 
There is mentioned by Strack and Perferkowitz (the latter 


counts Elasur b. Arach and Simon Shezur), Ben Patturo or Ben 
Pature, who is to be found only once in the whole Talmud, 
namely in Baba Metzia, p. 149. Let us quote his statement : “‘If 
two were on the road (in the desert), and one of them has a pitcher 
of water which is sufficient for one only until he may reach an in- 
habited place, but if both would use it both would die before 
reaching a village, and Ben Patturo lectured that in such a case it 


106 . APPENDIX. 


is better that both should drink and die than that one should wit- 
ness the death of his comrade.’’ This teaching seems to us to be of 
the Essenes as it is not in accordance with the Talmudical spirit, 
_ and as his own name is not known (there are many who were named 
after their fathers only as Ben Dama, b’ Bathyra, b’ Azai, but their 
own name however is known) we are inclined to say that he lived at 
a much earlier time and it should read Ben Pantira, who was in his 
youth a disciple of Jehoshua b’ Prachyah * and it would not be sur- 
prising that his lecture was stated in his name as so it was done with 
Elisha b’ Abbuyah in Tract Aboth, Chapter IV., notwithstanding 
that thereafter he separated himself from his colleagues and was 
named Acher. 





* ¢.e., Jesu b. Joseph Pantira, who is usually so mentioned in Tosephta (Chulin, 
v. 22), and in the Palestinian Talmud several times. In some places Jesu b. Pantira, 
and in other places Jesu Pantira and also Ben Pantira. Concerning Jehoshua b. 
Prachia who was his teacher, according to the Talmud, we are inclined to say there 
were two Jehoshuas rather than to claim that there were two Jesuses, 








PART V. 


THE ARRANGEMENT OF THE SIX SECTIONS IN THEIR SIXTY 
TRACTS. 


Section Zeraim (Plants) contains eleven tractates, viz.: 
Berachoth (Benediction), supplied with Gemara, both Pales- 
tinian and Babylonian, Peah (Corner tithe), Dmai (Uncertain), 
Khilayim (Mixtures), Shebtit (Sabbatical year), Therumoth 
(Heave offering), Maasheroth (Tithes), Maaser Sheni (Second 
tithes), Chala (Dough), Orla (Fruit trees during the first 
three years), and Biccurim (First fruit), all of which are not 
supplied with Babylonian Gemara. The laws of all of them 
concern Palestine at that time the Temple was in existence. 

Section Nashim (Women) contains seven tracts, viz.: Yeba- 
moth (Levirate marriage), Khethuboth (Marriage contracts), 
Nedarim (Vows), Nazir (Nazarite), Sota (Suspicious women), 
Gittin (Divorces), Kiddushin (Betrothals). 

Section Kodashim (Holiness), eleven tracts: Zebachim 
(Sacrifices), Menachoth (Meal-offering), Chulin (Profane 
things), Bechoroth (First born), Arachin (Estimations), The- 
mura (Exchange), Kherithoth (Excisions), Me-ila (Trespass), 
Thamid (Daily offerings), Middoth (Measurements) and Kin- 
nim (Birds’ nests). All the above tracts, besides Chulin, 
treat about sacrifices, offerings used at the time of the Tem- 
ple. Chulin, however, speaks of the laws of slaughtering 
and of the meats that may be used. 

Section Teharoth (Purification), twelve tracts, viz.: Khe- 
lim (Vessels), Ohaloth (Tents), Nego-im (Leprosy), Parah’ 
(Heifer), Teharoth (Purification), Mikvaoth (Wells), Nidda 
(Menstruous), Mach-shirim (Preparations), Zabim (Running 
issues), Tebul-Yom (Legal-day bath), Yadayim (Hands), and 
Uktzin (Stalks of fruit); to all of them, except Nidda, there is 
no Gemara, for the reason stated above (Vol. II., p. 42). The 
tract Nidda, however, treats about women menstruous and 
all the laws of sexual intercourse. 

Section Moed (Festivals), twelve tracts (in our Edition 13), 
and Section Nezikin (Jurisprudence), ten tracts (in our Edi- 
tion 13), which are already published in the English language. 
We give, for the benefit of readers, the following synopsis: 





ara? A ’ | Se ig on) , 4g 
Se : i N ‘ + \ 
. ’ 
i) * 








SECTION MOED (FESTIVALS). 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


VOLUME I.—TRACT SABBATH. 





SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


SEVERAL requests have been received by the translator that an index 
should be made to the volumes of the Talmud, as is customary with all 
modern works. It would be an utter impossibility to give a complete index 
of everything contained in the Talmud. Were it like other scientific works, 
which treat each subject separately, this could easily be done; but with 
the Talmud it is different. On one page many different subjects may be 
discussed, and again a single subject may occupy several pages. The 
Talmud, therefore, has never had an index, not even the portions which 
have been translated. 

After careful examination of the volumes, page by page, it has been de- 
cided to make a synopsis, z.e., to give briefly the heads of the discussions 
and conversations upon each Mishna, indicating the page where the 
Mishna is to be found, and the Gemara of each one, which serves as a 
commentary. By this the reader should be able to refer to what he desires 
to know. 

A synopsis is therefore given of every Mishna which discusses a single 
subject, with its accompanying Gemara ; but when several short Mishnas 
cover the same subject, a single synopsis is given of the whole, including 
the Gemara of.each one; and where a chapter is short and has but one 
subject, a synopsis of the whole chapter is made, without dividing it into 
Mishnas. 

This is the best that can be done, and it is hoped that readers will find 
it satisfactory. 


CHAPTER I. 


MISHNA 7, Regulations concerning prohibited and permitted acts of 
transfer over the dividing line of adjoining premises and the area of such 
premises ; the classification of premises ; in which premises transfer is per- 
mitted ; laws of transfer of labor, when committed by the joint efforts of two 
persons ; transfer from and to doorsteps, . é . I-13 

MISHNA //, Whether work may be corinne at the approach of the 
time for afternoon prayer; what kind of work is referred to; how a man 
should pray ; what he must wear; when he may eat his midday meal ; the 

xxix 


XXX SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


informing of the bestowal of gifts; Sabbath as a valuable gift of God 
and its origin; various legends of Rabha bar Ma’hassia in the name of 
«Rabh, : ; : ‘ 13-I9 

MisHNA J///, Tailors: awk other Siiisans are not permitted to go out 
with their tools on Friday near eventide. Treats also on whether one may 
read by lamplight on the Sabbath; the laws of visiting the sick; what 
prayers may be offered for the sick, : ‘ : 19-22 

MisHNAS JV. TO V7. How the eighteen tutidus ordinan ges were in- 
stituted in the attic of Hananya ben Hyzkiyah ben Gorion, and by whom the 
Roll of Fasts was written. Which acts of labor may be commenced on 
Friday eve ; concerning labor which is accomplished without assistance of 
man on Sabbath; laws concerning labor which is accomplished without 
assistance of man on Sabbath; laws concerning work given to Gentiles, 
Narrative of R. Simeon ben Gamaliel concerning how his father’s house 
dealt with Gentile clothes-washers. On transmission of letters and journey- 
ing on ships on the Sabbath. Regulations pertaining to the roasting of 
meats and baking of bread before the Sabbath.; the sacrifices at the Temple 
on the Passover. Appendix to p. 8, - : ' : ; : 22-30 


CHAPTER II. 


MISHNAS /, AND //, Permissible and non-permissible oils and wicks for 
lamps on the Sabbath and "Hanukah (feast of Maccabbees) ; the law of the 
"Hanukah lights; Hanukah and the miracle; the duration of "Hanukah ; 
benedictions to be said on that festival; the reward of those who keep the 
Sabbath-light commandment ; the reward of those who esteem scholarship. 
The second Mishna treats on: What balsams may and may not be used 
both for light and for the person on the Sabbath; a narrative of a woman 
who hated her daughter-in-law ; who may be called a rich man, . 31-42 

MisHNAS ///.TO V. What wicks made from parts of trees may be 
used ; whether broken vessels may be used for fuel on a biblical feast day ; 
what may be done with the residue of oil left in a lamp; practical laws of 
egg-shells and whether chairs may be dragged on the floor on Sabbath. 
The different opinions of R. Eliezer and R. Aqiba concerning the defile- 
ment ofa piece of cloth, and if it is allowed to make a wick of it. What 
happened with R. Jehudah in the Hall of Beth Nitza and with Abhin of 
Ziphoris, who committed certain acts which were not allowed, in the 
presence of the sages, : ; 42-48 

MISHNA VJ. Whether alight mie be axiupuished'o on Sabbath either for 
fear of accident or to afford rest for the sick ; the question asked R. Tan’hum 
of Nav and his replying sermon ; the soul being called the “ Light of God” ; 
the intended concealment of the Book of Proverbs and Ecclesiastes ; the 
Shekhina (divine presence) not resting with a man except through his joy of 
having performed a good deed ; Rabha’s custom when commencing his lec- 
tures to his disciples. R. Gamaliel’s sermon and answers to the disciple who 
derided him. The story of the three proselytes rejected by Shamai and 
accepted by Hillel. “What is hateful to thee, do not unto thy neighbor ; 
that is the law. All else is but a commentary.” The six sections of the 
Mishna are inferred from a biblical passage. The first thing asked of a man 








SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. ees 


when standing before the divine judgment is, ‘‘Hast thou traded in good 
faith?” The “ Fear of the Lord” is the chief oe The wicked fear 
death, although mentioning it every day, ‘ : é 48-53 

MIsHNAS V//. AND V///, The sins of women are passed upon when 
confined in childbirth, the sins of men while in danger. A good deed is 
committed through the agency of a meritorious person and a bad deed 
through the agency of the wicked ; all who are about to die must repent of 
their sins ; the defenders of man before divine judgment are repentance and 
good deeds. A thousandth part of one defender saves a man from the 
danger threatened him by a thousand accusers. The penalties imposed 
upon man for hating without cause; for robbery ; for perverting or pro- 
crastinating justice ; for destroying the law; for murder ; for adultery ; for 
idolatry ; for using obscene language. The story of R. Simeon ben Johai, 
who remained in a cave for twelve years. The causes leading up to his 
concealment in the cave ; his adventures after leaving the cave. The three 
things to be said by a man in his house on Friday eve; how they are to be 
said ; when twilight takes place ; how many signals of the horn were blown 
to remind the people of the advent of the Sabbath. Is there a difference 
between a shophar and a fife ?, 2 : 3 . . ° , 53-62 


CHAPTER III. 


MISHNAS 7. AND //. In which hearths or ovens victuals may be depos- 
ited on the Sabbath. The opinions of the school of Hillel and the school of 
Shamai concerning the same; the different opinions upon the teaching of 
the two schools. Victuals having once been taken out of an oven, would it 
be allowed to replace them? The law concerning a pot of victuals which 
had been forgotten and was thus cooked on the Sabbath. Usages of R. Jose 
on his way to Zipporah, and of R. Jehudah Hanassi when travelling. A 
narrative of R. Ishai while in the presence of R. Hyya the Great. The differ- 
ence in law between an oven and a hearth; also, difference arising from 
an oven or a hearth being heated with straw or with wood, etc., . 63-67 

MIsHNAS ///, TO V//. Customs of the people of Tiberias relative to the 
heating of a pitcher of cold water. Is it allowed to place a pitcher of cold 
water into one filled with hot water in order to heat the water; or, vice 
versa,in order to heat the water? May one wash his body in the warm 
water of the Tiberius springs or in water warmed on the Sabbath eve? 
May the entire body be washed at once or each member separately ? Cus- 
toms in a bath-house. Are sweat-baths permitted on the Sabbath? 
Incidents occurring in the bath-house of the city of B’ni Brak. Why 
sweat-baths were prohibited. May one warm himself by a hearth-fire? 
Is bathing one’s self in a washtub and anointing one’s self with oils per- 
mitted on the Sabbath? Usages of Rabbi Jehudah Hanassi in this matter. 
Is swimming in a lake permitted on the Sabbath? Incidents attending R. 
Zera’s witnessing R. Abuhu’s swimming in a lake on a Sabbath. Concerning 
the permissibility of pouring cold water in a muliar or antikhi, the fuel of 
which had been removed ; or in a kettle, the hot water of which had been 
poured out, and the prescribed quantity of such water. Concerning the 
addition of spices to a pot of victuals. Concerning the permissibility of 
placing a vessel under a burning lamp to receive its dripping oil or falling 


XXXii SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


sparks, and the placing of a vessel under a hen to receive the egg. Ordi- 
nance relating to a corpse lying in the sun. If it is allowed to save a 
corpse from fire. Prayers to be offered on Sabbath over the dead. The 
accordance of permission to save a corpse from conflagration on the 
Sabbath, ‘ ¥ ; . " ‘ A j ; 67-74 

MISHNAS V///, AND ZX, Concerning the handling of new and old lamps 
on the Sabbath, Ordinances relative to a bed which had been designated for 
the purpose of holding money on the Sabbath. The permissibility of handling 
a burning "Hanukah lamp for fear of the Persians. The law of Muktza. 
The ordinance relative to handling a lamp on Sabbath and the dictum of 
Resh Lakish in Zidon. The ordinance concerning the nuptial couch. Action 
of R. Malkia while the guest of R. Simlai and R. Abuhu at the house of 
R. Joshua ben Levi and R. Johanan. The experience of R. Avia, who came 
to the house of Rabha and sat on Rabha’s bed without removing his dirty 
shoes. Questions put to him by Rabha, and his replies. The law of a prin- 
cipal prohibited act. What R. Hanina did with a folding-bed that had 
become unfastened on a feast day, ‘ : ‘ : 5 : 74-82 


CHAPTER IV. 


MIsHNAS /. TO JV. What substances may be used for the preserving of 
victuals. Rabba’s and R. Zera’s upbraiding of a slave of the Exilarch, while 
sojourning in the latter’s house. Concerning the replacing of feathers in a 
pillow. Concerning the opening of a bunghead in a barrel and the making 
of a neckband ina shirt. Concerning the permissibility of depositing vict- 
uals in cloth and shorn wool intended for market. The derivation of the’ 
thirty-nine principal acts of labor on the Sabbath from the thirty-nine times 
“work” is mentioned in the Pentateuch. The law concerning branches of 
trees which were bound together to be used for fuel and were subsequently 
intended for sitting upon. R.Hanina ben Agqiba’s action in such a case. - 
The ordinance relating to the use of soap-powder and soap on the Sabbath. 
The necessity of washing one’s hands and feet for the sake of the Creator. 
What is to be done with a pot that had not been covered on the eve of 
Sabbath? The decision of Ishmael in the matter in the presence of Rabbi. 
The mutual respect of the sages for one another. R. Na’hman’s statement 
to Doen his servant, : . : . ; , : ‘ ‘ 83-go 


CHAPTER V. 


MIsHNAS /. TO Z/7. What gear animals may go out in on the Sabbath, 
Levi the son of R. Huna bar Hyya and Rabbi the son of R. Huna, occur- 
rence on the road. A bridle may be worn by an ass whose behavior is bad. 
A bridle is allowed as a guard but not as an ornament. An ass may go out 
with a rug, but what is the law concerning a saddle? Ordinances relative 
to a feed-bag. The decision of Arioch of Babylon (Samuel) in the matter. 
Concerning bags tied around the udders of she-goats. The miracle that was 
wrought for a man whose wife died and left him anursing child. The discus- 
sion of the rabbis about such a miracle. Narrative relating to a man whose 
wife was maimed. Concerning gear which may not be worn by animals 
on Sabbath. Peculiarities of the Hanun tree and where it may be found. 





SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. XXXili 


The wealth of R. Eliezer ben Azariah. Penalty for the failure to warn one’s 
family against evil. The different signs on the foreheads of the righteous 
and the wicked. The seal of God. Derivation of the merits of the fathers. 
Is death possible without sin? Defence for Reuben and others who are men- 
tioned in the Bible as sinners. Rabbi Hanassi’s justification for David. 
Was David guilty of listening to slander? Consequences of David's sin. 
King Solomon’s sin. The Archangel Gabriel’s act at the time of King 
Solomon’s marriage with Pharaoh’s daughter, The most fervent penitents, 

gI-106 

CHAPTER VI. 


MisuNas /. TO //7, What garments a woman may go outin. Definition 
of totaphoth. Concerning the garb of slaves. May the rabbis wear their 
insignia of office on Sabbath? Effect of a sermon on the women of the city 
of Mehuza concerning ornaments in the shape of a crown. Ordinances con- 
cerning nose-bands, earrings, and finger-rings. What garments a man 
must not go out in. Consequences of wearing iron-bound sandals. The 
law of majority. How shoes are to be put on. Why one when anointing 
himself should first anoint the head. Law concerning amulets, both tried 
and untried. Ordinances concerning hairpins and perfume-bottles. Causes 
of poverty. The trees of Jerusalem, . : ; 107-117 

MisHNnaAs /V. TO JX. Concerning bows, soon, and shields. Are they 
considered ornaments or is the wearing of such things degrading? Inter- 
pretation of biblical passages. Are they to be taken literally or figuratively. 
Rewards emanating from the proper study of the Law. Customs of scholars 
when discussing the Law. God’s blessing upon scholars who mutually in- 
struct one another. Regarding a man who keeps a vicious dog about his 
premises. Why the children of Israel were in need of forgiveness upon 
their return from the war with the Midianites. What garments women, 
young girls, and boys may go out in on Sabbath. References to cripples 
and to children of princes. Concerning the danger of imitating the customs 
of the Amorites. Occurrence at the feast given by R. Aqiba, . 117-126 


CHAPTER VII. 


Misunas JZ. To J/7. The principal rule concerning the Sabbath. Regu- 
lations regarding children in captivity among idolaters and converts. Re- 
maining with idolaters. Rules concerning one who was ignorant as to what 
labor was prohibited on the Sabbath but was conscious of the Sabbath, and 
vice versa. Concerning a man who, while travelling in a desert, had for- 
gotten which day was Sabbath. How labor may be distinguished. Different 
instances of forgetfulness regarding Sabbath and the performance of labor 
on the Sabbath. Instances of forgetfulness in dietary matters. Instances 
of intentional and unintentional performance of labor, and their distinction. 
Enumeration of the forty, less one, acts of labor. Principal and incidental 
acts. The degree of guilt involved in learning magic arts. Condemnation 
of one who is able to acquire astronomical knowledge and neglects to do so. 
Another rule was laid down. Discussions concerning the carrying out of 
necessary things on the Sabbath and the limitation of quantity. Different 
kinds of food may be counted together, : } ¥ F ; 127-142 


XXXIV SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


CHAPTER VIII. 


MisHNnas /. TO VY. The prescribed quantities of wine, honey, and milk 
that may be carried out on Sabbath. The strength of different wines. In- 
stances of stronger creatures fearing weaker ones. Why goats precede 
sheep in a flock. Why are she-goats not covered with a tail like sheep? 
Why has a camel a short tail? Why has an ox a long tail? Why are the 
feelers of a locust soft? What is the reason that the lower eyelids of a hen 
turn up? Three creatures grow stronger, etc. The quantity of rope, paper 
from which writing has been erased, skins, parchment, bones, loam, etc., 
which may be carried out on the Sabbath. Honor of man supersedes a 
biblical commandment. What is magic? The explanation of the verse 
Isaiah, xxxv. 14, . ‘ ! P : 2 y ; x ‘ 143-153 


CHAPTER IX. 


MisuHnas /. TO V//, Sayings and deductions of R. Aqiba. The day of 
the week and the month on which the Law was given to Israel. Assump- 
tion of authority by Moses and God’s acquiescence. The name of the month 
on which the Israelites left Egypt, and was it an intercalary month? The 
compulsory acceptance of the law by the Israelites and their subsequent 
voluntary acceptance in the days of Xerxes of Persia. Israel’s readiness to 
obey even before hearing. The publication of every word spoken by God 
in seventy languages. Comparison of the sayings of the Torah with a 
nobleman. The understanding of the Law is healthful, its misinterpretation 
is poisonous. Every word leaving the mouth of the Lord filled the world 
with aromatic odors. Complaints of the angels upon the ascension of Moses 
to heaven. Moses’ answer. Satan’s search for the Torah. Concerning the 
bearing of a slave toward his master. Rabha’s lecture upon the patriarchs 
and their answers to the complaints of God concerning the children of Israel. 
Isaac’s defence of the children of Israel upon the Lord’s telling him that 
they had sinned. The quantity of spices, dyes, metals, pedler’s boxes, and 
seeds which may be carried out on the Sabbath, ‘ R . 154-170 


CHAPTER X. 


MisuHNAS /. TO V//7, Rules pertaining to one who carries out things 
valuable to him, The quantities in which they may be carried out. The 
quantities in which they may be carried out by one to whom they are not 
valuable. Concerning eatables which are carried out of the house and left 
on the doorstep, and things that are carried in the left hand, on the shoulder, 
on the head, or in the bosom. Concerning one who, while intending to carry 
a thing in front, accidentally carries it on his back, or vice versa. Concern- 
ing the case of two men carrying out a burden which one alone was not 
capable of carrying. The law in that case. Concerning the case of one 
who carries out eatables in quantities less than the limit in a vessel. Is he 
culpable for carrying the vessel or not? Concerning the permissibility of 
paring the finger-nails of one hand by means of those of the other hand on 
the Sabbath. The case of one tearing off flowers from a plant in an unper- 
forated'flowerapaty: 6 ie ee I IS SR ea 








SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


VOLUME IIl.—TRACT SABBATH 





CHAPTER XI. 


MisHNAS I,, II., III., 1V., and V. Throwing from private into private by 
way of public ground. What constituted the sin of the wood-gatherer. The 
mysterious scrolls found by Rabh in the house of his uncle R. Hyya concern- 
ing the principal acts of labor. What was the name of the wood-gatherer. 
Arraignment of R. Aqiba by Jehudah ben Bathyra for slandering Zeloph- 
chad, by naming him as the wood-gatherer, and for slandering Aaron, by 
stating that he had been punished by leprosy. Reward for merit comes 
more quickly than retribution for wickedness. Regulations concerning pits 
in public ground for the Sabbath. Throwing from a distance of four ells 
against a wall. Throwing within four ells, when the object thrown rolled to 
a greater distance. Throwing at sea for a distance of four ells, and throw- 
ing from the sea to land, or from one ship to another. Throwing a thing on 
Sabbath and recollecting that it was Sabbath immediately afterwards. If the 
thing thrown was caught by another. The rule concerning what constitutes 
committing an act through error, involving the liability for a sin-offering, 

189-203 
CHAPTER XII. 

MIsHNAS I.,, II., IIL, and IV. Concerning building. The amount of 
building involving liability for a sin-offering; the amount of ploughing. » The 
writing of how many letters make one liable for a sin-offering ; with which 
hand that is to be done. The wonderful statement of some young men at 
the schoolhouse, which was not heard of even in the time of Joshua the son 
of Nun. Why the letters of the word Sheger (lie) are so close together (in the 
order of sequence of the alphabet) and the letters of Emeth (truth) so far 
apart? Because lies are very frequent and truth very scarce. Tattooing. 
Ben Sattadai, being a fool, cannot be cited as an instance, ; 204-212 


CHAPTER XIII. 


MIsuHnas I, II., III., and IV. Concerning weaving. How many threads 
one must weave to become culpable. One who tears an article or breaks a 
xli 


xlii SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


vessel on the Sabbath in a moment of fury is regarded as one who practises 
idolatry. Concerning one who rends his garments upon being advised of the ~ 
death of a relative on Sabbath. Reward for shedding tears over the death 
ofa righteous man. Fate of those who fail to mourn the death of a scholar. 
If one member of the community die, let the entire community beware. 
Rules pertaining to hunting and trapping. May the door be closed on a 
stag who seeks refuge in a dwelling ? ; eign ey oe 


CHAPTER XIV. 


MISHNA I. Concerning the eight kinds of vermin mentioned in the 
Thorah, On what material the Phylacteries may be written. Samuel's and 
Karna’s experience with Rabh upon the arrival of the latter in Babylon from 
Palestine. Questions put to Rabh by Karna. Samuel’s remedies given 
Rabh during the latter’s illness. Questions put to R. Joshua of Garthi by a 
Bathusee, and R. Joshua’s replies, f ‘ : ; ; 219-222 


MIsHNA II. Concerning the preparation of salt water on Sabbath. A 
drop of water the best remedy for sore eyes. Which parts of the body must 
not be touched by the hand immediately after arising and before performing 
the morning ablutions. The comparison of the eye to a princess, who should 
not be touched by a hand that had not been washed three times. Is it per- 
mitted to bathe a sore hand in wine or vinegar on Sabbath? : 222-225 


MISHNAS III. and IV. Concerning foods and beverages which may be 
partaken of on Sabbath for medicinal purposes. Definition of the tree-water 
mentioned in the Mishna. The aptitude of Babylonian beer as a remedy. 
The use of Ikkarim (a preventive against pregnancy), : : 225-229 


CHAPTER XV. 


MIsHNAS I., II., and III. Concerning the tieing and untieing of knots on 
Sabbath. The poverty of R. Jehudah, the brother of Sallah the Pious, and 
the manner he and his shared the use of one pairof sandals, . 230-233 


MISHNA IV. Concerning the folding of clothes and the making of beds 
on the Sabbath. Laws concerning a Sabbath that is concurrent with the 
Day of Atonement. Distinction of attire on Sabbath from that on week-days. 
R. Johanan’s statement in reference to clothes. Rules for walking on the 
Sabbath. Inferences drawn from the biblical passage : ‘‘ Give unto the wise, 
and he will become wiser.” Boaz’s object in marrying Ruth. The mention 
made in the Thorah concerning change of attire. The necessity fora scholar 
of keeping his attire immaculate. The degree of trustworthiness required of 
a scholar in order that he may recover a lost article without identification. 
The degree of worth required of a scholar to allow of his eligibility to the 
presidency of a congregation. Rules concerning the cleansing of food on 
the afternoon of the Day of Atonement, : ; ; ‘ 3 233-238 


CHAPTER XVI. 


MISHNAS I. and II. Concerning the saving of sacred scrolls from a con- 
flagration on Sabbath. What is the law concerning such scrolls if written in 








SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. xliil 


Aramaic, Coptic, Median, old Hebrew, Elamite, and Greek ? What hap- 
pened to Aba Halafta on his visit to R. Gamaliel the Great in Tiberias, 
while sitting at the table of Johanan the Nazuph. Aba Halafta’s reminis- 
cence of R. Gamaliel’s grandfather, in reference to the book of Job, written 
in Aramaic. The law concerning the saving of written benedictions and 
amulets from a conflagration. One who writes benedictions is regarded as 
one who burns the Law. What happened to men of Sidon, who wrote bene- 
dictions, which fact became known to R. Ishmael. Why are the two verses 
(Numbers x. 35 and 36) marked by signs? What is the law concerning the 
saving of the Gilyonim and the books of the Sadducees from a conflagration ? 
R. Tarphon’s dictum in this matter. Ema Shalom, R. Eliezer’s wife’s, and 
her brother R. Gamaliel’s experience with a philosopher, who was also a 
judge. The law concerning covers of books, and to which place they may 
be taken in case of fire, ; ‘ ; . ; ; : ; 239-257 


MISHNA III. How much food may be saved from a conflagration on 
Sabbath? How should bread be cut on the Sabbath? The number of meals 
to be eaten on Sabbath. The amount of property a poor man may own and 
stiil not be debarred from accepting charitable gifts. What should be given 
to an itinerant beggar. The reward of those who observe the eating of three 
meals on the Sabbath. The reward of one who maketh the Sabbath a de- 
light. By what means we may make the Sabbath a delight. The good 
deeds related by several Tanaim and Amoraim, to have been especially taken 
care of by them. The different kinds of work performed by each one of the 
Amoraim personally in honor of the Sabbath. Anecdote told of Joseph, who 
honored the Sabbath, and his rich Gentile neighbor. The eventual impover- 
ishment of the Gentile through the purchase of a pearl which was swallowed 
by a fish, and the sudden wealth of Joseph, who bought the fish and found 
the pearl. Experience of R. Hyya bar Aba while the guest of a rich man in 
the city of Ludkai. How must the Day of Atonement be honored? What 
the two angels who accompany man at the close of Sabbath say to one who 
had honored the Sabbath and to one who had not. The story of R. Abuha 
and his calf. Different opinions concerning the cause of the destruction of 
Jerusalem, . ‘ { 4 ‘ : ‘ ; P ‘ P 257, 258 


MISHNAS IV., V., VI., and VII. How many loaves of bread may be saved 
in a basket from a conflagration. It is allowed to cover a chest with a goat- 
skin to keep it from burning. Partitions to be made with vessels filled with 
water. Concerning a candle that had fallen on the table. Concerning Gen- 
tiles and minors at the extinguishing of a fire on Sabbath. The miracle 
occurring for Joseph ben Simai. What dangerous animals may be killed on 
Sabbath. The dissatisfaction of the pious with those who kill on the Sabbath, 
and the dissatisfaction of the sages with the pious. Aba bar Minyumi at the 
house of the Exilarch. The story of R. Gamaliel on board of a ship, and of 
Samuel, in whose presence a Gentile lit a candle for his own use, 258-265 


CHAPTER XVII. 


MISHNAS I. to VI. Concerning vessels which may be handled on the Sab- 
bath. Vessels which may be removed for lack of space, also from sunshine 
into the shade ; whether fragments of the vessels may be moved with them, 


xliv SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


and other such matters. The questions put to Rabh by Mari bar Rachel, and 
Rabh’s replies. Concerning window-blinds and covers of vessels, 266-275 


CHAPTER XVIII. 


MISHNA I. How much straw may be removed for the accommodation 
of guests on Sabbath. The reward for hospitality. Different opinions con- 
cerning the merits of hospitality. The six things of which the interest is 
paid to man on earth and the principal in the world to come. The four 
additional things which include the previous six. Concerning one who 
judges his neighbor charitably, and his reward above. The story of the man 
who was hired by the father of Hyrcanos for three years, and who was not 
paid at the end of the term. The story of the pious man who ransomed a 
maiden from captivity. The story of R. Jehoshua and the Roman matron, 
and his disciples. Whether salt meat and salt fish may be handled, 276-281 


MIsHNA II. Concerning a basket set down for chickens to climb. Con- 
cerning a woman carrying her child. What may be done in the event of an 
animal falling into the water on Sabbath, . : ; : ‘ 281, 282 


MiIsHNA III. Concerning animals about to calve on a festival. What 
assistance may be given a woman about to give birth to child on a Sabbath. 
For how long a period may the Sabbath be violated on account of a woman 
lying-in ? From what time is she considered to be lying-in? Where life is 
at stake, the ordinances may be put to the most lenient construction. Every- 
thing necessary for a sick person, where the illness is not dangerous, should 
be performed by a Gentile. Concerning bleeding. Meals after being bled. 
The duty of drinking wine after being bled, and advice to one who has no 
wine. On what days one should be bled and on what days one should not. 
Everything mentioned in Ezekiel xvi. 4 may be done for a woman lying-in on 
Sabbath, : ; ? : : ; : : : : ; 282-287 


CHAPTER XIX. 


MisHNAs I., II., and III. Concerning the bringing of the knife for circum- 
cision on Sabbath. When it should be brought publicly and when con- 
cealed; when it should be concealed before witnesses. Public carrying of 
the knife as a proof of the love of the commandment. Commandments ac- 
cepted by Israelites with joy are even now carried out joyfully ; those received 
with protest are now reluctantly carried out. Story of Elisha, ‘the man of 
wings.” The Sabbath may be violated on account of preparations for cir- 
cumcision. Concerning the sucking out of the blood, and bandages neces- 
sary for circumcision. What Abayi’s mother told him. Rabh’s experience 
with the physicians of Me’huzza. Children who have imperfect circulation 
should not be circumcised until in perfect health. What happened to Nathan 
of Babylon. How a child should be bathed on Sabbath. The law concern- 
ing hermaphrodites. Concerning a child born at twilight and a child born 
without a foreskin. The story of the child of R. Ada bar Ahabha, who was 
carried to thirteen circumcisers. Whether the Sabbath may be violated on 
account of a child that had been delivered from the side of the mother (with 
instruments). When a child is called a miscarriage. If a child was to a 





SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. xlv 


certainty regularly born, it must in the event of its death be mourned in the 
regular manner, . ; ; . é : ‘ ‘ é ; 288-305 


MISHNAS IV., V., and VI. Concerning one who had two children to be 


_ circumcised. Under what circumstances a child may be circumcised after 


the eighth day and until the twelfth. The benedictions pronounced by the 
circumciser, the father of the child, and the assembled guests after the 
circumcision, i ‘ x r : Z 3 f 3 3 305-308 


CHAPTER XX. 


MISHNAS I. to V. Concerning wine-filters. Laws concerning folding- 
beds, folding-chairs, etc. Question put by R. Kahana to Rabh. Rabh’s 
reply and the explanation of same by the Gemara. The assertion that the 
Law will be forgotten by Israel, and R. Simeon’s ben Jochai explanation of 
same. The advisability of investigating amongst the judges in Israel in 
times of trouble. Corrupt judges the hindrance to the resting of the Lord’s 
Shekhina among the children of Israel. Zion’s redemption must come 
through justice. The story of the young scholar who was accused before R. 
Ashi. The story told by R. Joseph concerning the goblet of wine served 
him by Mar Uqba. Concerning the soaking of laserpitium on Sabbath. 
Indisposition of R. A’ha bar Joseph, who was cured by laserpitium. Several 
sayings of R. Hisda, giving advice. How animals must be fed. Concerning 
straw on a bed. Concerning customary and unusual handling of things. 
Small men should not wear large shoes nor women torn shoes, . 309-321 


CHAPTER XXI. 


Misunas I. to III. Concerning the lifting of a child in connection with 
things held by the child, and the lifting of a corpse in connection with other 
things. Concerning a base to a prohibited thing. Concerning a stone at the 
opening of a barrel or ona cushion. Concerning the removal of husks and 
bones from the table. The decision of Abayi that the school of Hillel is 
always in conformity with R. Simeon’s opinion, that the law of Muktza has 
no foundation, , 5 ; ‘ : ‘ ; . ° é 322-327 


CHAPTER XXII. 


MIsHNA I. How much may be saved from a broken cask. Concerning 
fruit which is pressed in order to extract the juice. Bunches of grapes may be 
pressed into the cooking pot direct, but not intoa bowl. According to biblical 
law one is not culpable for pressing any fruit, with the exception of grapes 
and olives. Witnesses testifying from hearsay are not accredited, 328-331 


MISHNA II. Concerning eatables that are dressed with hot water. The 
three questions propounded by R. Hyya bar Aba: ‘“ Why are the fowls of 
Babylon so fat? Why are the Babylonians so merry during the festivals ? 
Why are the scholars of Babylon so well dressed?” The answers of R. 
Johanan: “Ifa thing is as certain to thee as the fact that thou canst not 
marry thy own sister, then say it. Otherwise, say it not!” é 331, 332 


MISHNAS III. and IV. Concerning the breaking open of a cask and eating 
its contents. Rabh shows his respect for his pupils R. Kahana and R. 


xlvi ~ SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


Ashi by refusing to sit on a bolster when they sat on the ground. Concern- 
ing the depositing of victuals in a cave. Concerning the dusting of clothes 
on Sabbath. R. Shesha’s, the son of Idi, tasteful arrangement of his cloak, . 
The narrative of R. Dimi in the name of and regarding Rabbi, . 332-338 


MISHNA V. Concerning bathing in a cavern or in the hot springs of Tibe- 
rias. How the wine of Purgaitha and the water of Deumseth robbed the 
Israelites of ten tribes. How R. Jehudah had a pledge taken from Rabba 
bar bar Hanna to insure the latter’s appearance at his college, and the 
advantage gained by R. Jehudah in learning anew Halakha, . 338-341 


CHAPTER XXIII. 


MISHNAS I. and II. Concerning borrowing and lending. Such acts as 
must be performed on festivals should be performed in as different a manner 
to what they are performed on week-days as possible. Concerning the count- 
ing of guests and dishes. Casting lots at meals. A man on whose account 
another is punished is not admitted into the abode of the Lord, . 342-346 


MISHNAS III., IV., and V. Concerning the hiring of laborers on Sab- 
bath. The rule laid down by Abba Saul. Concerning the transaction of 
the affairs of a community on Sabbath. The betrothal of children on the 
Sabbath. The miracle which occurred to a man who would not mend a fence 
of his field on Sabbath. Concerning waiting at the techoom on account of 
a bride or a corpse. Concerning the performance of all necessities for a 
corpse on Sabbath, , : : , ‘ ‘ : : ; 346-353 


MISHNA VI. Closing the eyes of a corpse on Sabbath. Concerning the 
closing of the eyes of a dying person on a week-day. On account of a living 
child, only one day old, the Sabbath may be violated; but not even for David, 
King of Israel, if he be dead, may this be done. A living child one day old 
need not be guarded from the attacks of rats, but even the dead body of Og, 
King of Bashan, must be guarded from such attacks. Practise charity 
when the opportunity presents itself and when it is within thy reach. 
Poverty is compared to a wheel constantly turning. He who pities living 
creatures is pitied also in Heaven. The explanation of many verses in Ec- 
clesiastes regarding the human body. Why R. Hanina did not weep over 
the death of his daughter. There are six kinds of tears which are shed: 
three good and three bad. The dispute of Joshua ben Kar’ha with the 
eunuch. Why Barzillai was a liar. Worms are as annoying to a corpse as 
a needle is to excrescences on the flesh. The soul of a man mourns for the 
body seven days. The narrative relating to R. Jehudah and his actions 
towards a stranger who died in his vicinity. ‘‘ Return thy soul as clean as 
it was given thee,” and the parable connected with thestatement. The con- 
versation between R. Na’hman and the dead body of R. Ahai ben Yashi. 
The bones of a man who had no jealousy in his heart will not rot. The souls 
of the righteous are ensconced underneath the throne of honor a twelvemonth 
after leaving the body. ‘Make my funeral sermon impressive, for I shall be 
present.” To repent one day before death means to repent every day, lest 
the morrow bring death. ‘‘ At all times let thy garments be white,” and the 
parable connected withit, . : ; : , : : ; 353-362 





SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. xlvii 


CHAPTER XXIV. 


MISHNA I, Concerning one who was overtaken by dusk on the eve of 
Sabbath while on the road. The Sabbath rest must be kept inviolate as far 
as one’s animal is concerned, but one is not responsible for the Sabbath rest 
of a Gentile. An additional statement concerning the Sabbath rest, which 
the sages would not reveal. On the day the eighteen precautionary ordi- 
nances were instituted, according to the opinion of some, the measure of laws 
was made heaping full, while, according to others, it was not filled enough, 
The examples connected with this statement. Why R. Gamaliel allowed his 
ass to drop dead undera load, . X ‘ ; i : . 363-367 


MISHNAS II., III., and IV. Concerning the untieing of straw for cattle. 
Concerning the cramming of camels, calves, poultry, and doves. Kneading 
on Sabbath. The fate of those born on the different days of the week, accord- 
ing to the diary of R. Jehoshua ben Levi. The seven planets guiding the 
destiny of man. Designation (Muktza) on account of filth and on account of 
expensive articles. Concerning the cutting up of pumpkins and carrion, 

367-376 

MISHNA V, What vows may be annulled on Sabbath. Whether a vow 
may be annulled before the expiration of twenty-four hours after one hears it 
pronounced, or only during the same day. How consultation concerning 
vows must behad. Should aChacham (sage) only be consulted, or will three 
ordinary men suffice for that purpose? How vows are to be annulled on 
Sabbath. By thought or by word of mouth ; may one say merely: ‘ Go, eat 
and drink!” The sages comply with the request of Mar Zutra and annul his 
vow on a Sabbath. How water for ritual purposes may be measured on 
Sabbath. What happened to Ula at the house of the Exilarch regarding the 
measuring of water in a bath, ae ’ ; ; : : 376-378 


CUSTOMARY CONCLUDING PRAYER. 
Epigraph. Translator’s remarks, . ‘ ; , ; ; 379, 380 


APPENDIX.* 


Concerning the eighteen regulations enacted in the attic of Hananiah ben 
Hizkyah ben Garon. Their importance and influence on the government of 
the Jews. The degeneracy of priestdom, . : ; F , 381-390 





* We would call the attention of the reader to the appendix of this volume, which 
will prove interesting to the general reader and present something heretofore un- 
published to the student of the Talmud. 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


VOLUME Ill.—TRACT ERUBIN* 





CHAPTER I. 


MISHNA I. treats: If an entry be higher than twenty ells. The size ot 
the height is based upon the door and the porch of the pillars of the temple, 
or palaces of kings. If the cross-beam was partly above twenty ells, and 
partly below. The ell used at a booth and an entry measures five spans, but 
the ell used at Kilaim is six spans. The several prescribed quantities, 
the intervention of articles, and the ordinances concerning the walls of 
entries and booths were given by Moses at the Mount Sinai, and also Gud, 
Lavud, and crooked walls. About Kal Vochomer (@ fortiori), which comes 
very often in the Talmud. The people there were ignorant, and had to be 
given a liberal interpretation of the ordinance. How must entries facing 
public ground be combined by an Erub? May the rigorous ordinances of . 
two Tanaim be applied to one case? What was decided about a village of 
a shepherd, where was an entry which opened into a vacant yard. May the 
space underneath the cross-beam be used ? The law about an entry which 
was provided with a number of side-beams (with the illustration). The law 
about a missing portion of the wall, perceptible from the inside or from the 
outside (with their illustrations), Whether an entry measuring twenty ells 
could be reduced to thirteen and a third if built as illustrated ? What R. 
Jehudah taught to R. Hyya, the son of Rabh, and how Rabh corrected. 
How an apparent door isto be made, ‘ : : ; ; I-22 


MISHNA II. What is required to legalize the carrying within an entry. 
How the sages were very lenient with all things pertaining to water. 
Whether water may be taken from an arm of the sea which enters a court- 
yard. There is a tradition about an entry that can be legalized by a side or 
cross beam. Why was Rabbi, or Rabh, more sagacious than his colleagues ? 
Why were the school of Hillel favored ? Because modest. Two years the 
schools of Shammai and Hillel disputed whether it were better that man had 
not been created as he was, . ; ¢ : . ‘ ‘ 4 22-28 





* See introduction to synopsis in Tract Sabbath, Vol. I., p. xxix. 
ix 








x SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


MISHNA III. The cross-beam must be wide enough to hold a half of a 
brick. About a cross-beam put up over an entry but not reaching the oppo- 
site wall. Anything measuring three spans in circumference is one hand 
in width, . 4 , : . ’ ; ; 3 Z J 28-31 


MISHNAS IV., V., VI., and VII. The height and thickness of the side- 
beam. How much is meant by thickness “whatever it may”? About a 
side-beam standing of itself. There was a pillar about which Abayi and 
Rabha differed all their lives. Side-beams may be made out of anything. 
Every open space ten spans wide may be used as an entry. The open space 
must not exceed in extent the fence proper. How can it be that there should 
be a contradiction and still the Halakha should prevail according to it? A 
fence may also be constructed with three ropes, or with cane-laths. Any 
partition not constructed on the principle of warp and shoot, whether it is a 
partition’? Iswear by the law of Moses, and by the prophets, and by the 
Hagiographa, that Rabh said this. It makes absolutely no difference, be it 
a caravan or an individual, in an inhabited place or in the desert. The 
four privileges granted to warriors in the camp, . é : ; 31-39 


CHAPTER II. 


MISHNA I, How enclosures are to be made around wells (and illustra- 
tions.) To make an enclosure around a well of rain-water is permitted only 
to the pilgrims to Jerusalem. Adam, the first man, had a dual face. The 
Lord was sponsor to him. The fires of hell cannot gain access to the bodies 
of the sinners of Israel; Abraham the patriarch, seeing that they are cir- 
cumcised, rescues them. How much in size must the larger part of a cow 
be reckoned ? May things be carried from a courtyard opening into the 
enclosure around a well, and vice versa? I have heard that ye go to the 
Synagogue of Daniel on the Sabbath; upon what grounds do ye do this ? 
In the time that Solomon the king ordained the law of Erubin, a heavenly 
voice was heard. Solomon said three thousand proverbs for every one of 
the biblical commandments. The commandments are to be fulfilled to-day, 
and the rewards will be in the world to come. If a public thoroughfare 
passes through an enclosure. The paths by which the mountains of Pales- 
tine are ascended do not come under the head of public ground, . 40-55 


MISHNAS II. and III. An enclosure of boards must be made only for a 
public well. The difference in the opinions of R. Jehudah b. Babah, R. 
Agiba, R. Eliezer, and R. Jose, about a garden or woodshed over seventy 
ells square. How can one hundred ells in length by fifty by fifty in breadth 
(Ex. xxvii. 18) be understood ? If a woodshed of more than two saahs’ 
capacity was fenced in for a dwelling. In a bleaching-ground (behind a 
house) things must not be carried except for a distance of four ells. What 
was done by R. Huna bar Hinana, R. Papa, and R. Huna, the son of R. 
Joshua in reference to a garden on the estate of the Exilarch containing a 
pavilion, . 3 ‘ . ; } : : ; . i § 55-61 


CHAPTER III. 


MIsHNA I. With what kind of victuals may the Erub be effected? ‘ The 
man who will explain to me the dictum of Ben Bagbag concerning the oxen, 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. xi 


I will carry his clothes after him to the bath-house.” The prescribed quanti- 
ties of victuals for an Erub. R. Jeremiah went out into the villages and was 
asked whether an Erub may be made with bean-pods. ‘ May the lord forgive 
R. Menashiah bar Shegublick. I said this to him in reference to a Mishna, 
and he said this in reference to a Boraitha.” Abayi said : My mother told me 
that roasted ears are good for the heart, and drive away care, etc. An Erub 
must not be made with consecrated things. There are sages who hold that 
the prescribed quantities which are dependent upon the size of man should 
be measured accordingly, : ‘ ‘ . : : : - 62-70 


MISsHNAS IL., III., 1V., and V. Whether an Erub may be made of things 
consecrated, or from which heave-offering, etc., has not been separated. 
When a man sends his Erub by the hand of a deaf and dumb person, an 
idiot, or a minor. The difference of opinion between R. Na’hman and R, 
Shesheth, whether the established rule that a messenger will perform his 
errand holds good in rabbinical things only, or also in biblical. If he had 
put it into a pit, where is the pit supposed to be situated? If the man should 
put the Erub on top of a cane or pole, into a cupboard which he locked and 
then lost the key, the Erub is nevertheless valid, providing it was a festival, 
On Sabbath, however, it is not valid. If the Erub rolls (or is moved) out of 
the limit of the Sabbath distance? If the time when it took place is doubt- 
ful? If a clean and unclean loaf were before a man, and he was told to 
make an Erub with the clean one, but did not know which was which? 
Said R. Na’hman to Rabha: If thou wilt measure a whole kur of salt and 
present me with it, I shall tell thee the answer. A man may make his Erub 
conditional. If one of the two sages had been the man’s teacher, he must 
go to meet his teacher. It frequently happens that a man has a greater 
fondness for his colleague than for his teacher. Why can he not make it 
conditional upon the arrival of sages from opposite directions? R. Jehudah 
does not admit of the theory of premeditated choice. Who is the Tana 
who holds that the sages also discountenance the theory of premeditated 
choice? . E s : ; A : ; i z 2 71-82 


MisHNAS VI., VII., VIII. If a festival precedes or succeeds a Sabbath, 
how must it be done? Have two days of the festival each a separate de- 
gree of sanctification ? The opinion of the four old sages is in accordance 
with or contrary to Eliezer’s decision. Is an Erub of the first day valid for 
the east, and of the second for the west? My Erub shall be valid for the 
first day and on the second I am like my townsmen. What was said to the 
men who prepared baldachins for marriages. How is it with the benedic- 
tion of the time on the days of New Year and the Day of Atonement? How 
the rabbis sent a man to R. Hisda to see his custom about the benediction 
of time. Must a fast be completed on a Friday ? 2 , A 82-92 


CHAPTER IV. 


MISHNA I. What Rabbon Gamaliel, R. Eliezer b. Azariah, R. Joshua, 
and R. Aqiba discussed when they were on board the ship from Parendisim. 
Three persons will never come to Gehenna. Three classes of human beings 
die in the possession of their power of speech. If foes or an evil spirit have 
carried a man into another town? The Halakha about which R. Gamaliel 








xii SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


and R. Aqiba disputed the whole day on board the ship. The supposition 
that the seven Halakhas related on the same Sabbath in the morning in 
Sura, and in the evening in Pumbaditha, were through Elijah the prophet. 
How a partition with men can be made. It once happened that flasks of 
wine were thrown out of Rabba’s house on the road in the city of Mehuzza, 
and what was done with them, . ‘ : ‘ ; : 3 93-100 


MISHNA II. All those who go forth on an errand of safety are permitted 
to return to their homes on Sabbath. Besieged cities and those near a 
boundary. The difference of opinions between R. Meir and R. Jehudah 
about the entering a town at dusk before Sabbath. According to whom the 
Halakha prevails when R. Aqiba, R. Jose, and R. Meir, R. Jehudah, Rabbi, 
etc., differ. Notes about our omissions in the Talmud, about the abbrevi- 
ation of undecided questions, and about the rule laid down by R. Meshar- 
shia, It once happened that rams were brought into the city of Mabrakhta 
on a festival. Whence do we derive the four ells? If we were to learn the 
Talmud in this manner, we would never be able to learn anything. An 
Erub divided by a man in two parts or deposited in two separate ves- 
obis;.: . ; ; ; : ‘ ‘ : ‘ : ; ; 100-III 


MISHNAS III., IV. Should a man overtaken by dusk on the road single 
out a tree or hedge? What is meant by “legally he has said nothing”? 
If a man made an error and deposited his Erub in two directions. What 
Rabba said in the name of R. Jose, that it should he accepted, though he 
had not said so. What is the principal way to make an Erub, bread or the 
feet? One who can prepare an Erub and does not do so, is like one driving 
an ass and leading a camel. R. Jehudah bar Isht’tha brought a basket of 
fruit to R. Nathan bar Oshiya on the eve of Sabbath. If one went beyond 
the legal limit even a single ell. Opinions of R. Simeon and the sages about 
one overtaken by dusk, : ; . é : ; : ; 111-118 


CHAPTER V. 


MISHNA I. How can the boundaries of a town be extended? The dif- 
ference between the hearts of the previous sages and those of the later. Why 
the Judeans retained what they had learned, and the Galileans, not. Whence 
is it known that the Lord forgave Saul for his sin? When Joshua b, Ha- 
naniah was disconcerted by a woman, a girl, and a boy. What Brurih, the 
wife of R, Meir, told to R. Jose, the Galilean, and also to a young scholar. 
The explanation of Netzach, Selah, and Voéd mentioned in the Bible. If 
the tables had not been broken the first time the law would not have been 
forgotten by Israel. How to retain one’s knowledge. How the method of 
teaching the law was in the times of Moses. R. Preida would teach a dis- 
ciple a thing four hundred times, and once twice four hundred times: his 
reward for this from heaven.” If a town is in the form of an arch. If one 
comes to make a town square. The equinoxes. Note about the seven 
planets of ancient astronomy, ' ‘ ; 3 ‘ ; : IIg-131 


MISHNAS II, III., 1V., V. Anallowance of seventy and two-thirds ells of 
space must be made to the town. The difference of opinions whether to 
each town, or between. What must the distance between the outer villages 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. xiii 


be? One must not measure the legal distance except with a line exactly fifty 
ells long. The three kinds of cord. What is meant by cutting straight 
through the mountain. The measurement must be undertaken only by an 
expert. Ifa town belonging to an individual becomes public property. If 
a town that is public property becomes the property of an individual. The 
inhabitants of Kakunai came before R. Joseph and asked him to give them a 
man to effect an Erub for them in their city, s , x , 131-140 


MISHNA VI., VII. A man who is at the east of his domicile, telling his 
son to place his Erub towards the west, or vice versa. What is meant by 
“toward the east” ? (and illustrations). If a town stands on the steep banks 
of a lake. The discussions about the right of the inhabitants of Hamtan 
and Gadar to carry or go. The inhabitants of a large town may traverse the 
whole of a small town (but not vice versa). Mar Jehudah observed that the 
inhabitants of Mabrakhta placed their Erub in the synagogue of the city of 
Agubar, é ; ; } ; ‘ ; ; ; : 140-144 


CHAPTER VI. 


MISHNA I. One who dwells in the same court with a Gentile, or with 
one who does not acknowledge the laws of Erub, The dwelling of a Gentile, 
as far as the laws of Erubin are concerned. May a disciple decide a 
Halakha in the place where his master resides? If a slaughtering knife is 
brought to a young scholar for examination. Who sends his gifts to one 
priest to the exclusion of all others brings famine into the world. If several 
Israelites rented apartments from a Gentile, and one of them forgot to make 
an Erub. One who is tipsy should not pray. Prayer of one intoxicated 
considered as blasphemy. A quarter of a lug of Italian wine inebriates. 
Three miles’ walk required to destroy the effects of wine. The night made 
only for sleep, according to one. The moon made only to facilitate study 
at night, according to another. The cases in which R. Samuel’s father, 
R. Samuel, and R. Papa would not pray. Wine made only for mourners 
and to reward for good deeds the wicked in this world. A house where 
wine flows not like water cannot be classed among those that are blessed. 
What R. Hanina bar Joseph, R. Hyya bar Abba, and R. Assi discussed in 
an inn, the proprietor of which was a Gentile. R. Hisda’s lips would trem- 
ble when he met R. Shesheth, because the latter was versed in Mishnaioth 
and Boraithoth, while the whole body of R. Shesheth trembled when he met 
R. Hisda, because of his sagacity. The discussion about warm water for a 
new-born child. How is it possible that two such great men made no Erub. 
Whether a Sadducee is considered the same as a Gentile, R. Gamaliel and 
the sages differ. There are two kinds of Sadducees, : : 145-162 


MISHNAS II., III., and IV. If one of the householders of a court forgets, 
and does not join in the Erub. From what time is the right to be conferred ? 
If five men inhabited one court, one must resign his right, if he had forgot- 
ten to join in the Erub. May an heir resign his right or not? The reason 
of the difference between Beth Shammai and Beth Hillel about the meaning 
of resigning the right to a place. The difference of opinion between the 
sages and R. Simeon about partnership in wine or oil. In courts an Erub 
must be made with bread, but it is not allowed to do so with wine. Differ- 








xiv SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


ence between Beth Shammai and Beth Hillel about five companies occupy- 
ing during Sabbath one hall. Brothers or associates taking their meals at 
one table but sleeping in separate houses. One who has a vestibule, a gal- 
lery, or balcony in the court of another, without an Erub. It happened that 
an inhabitant of Naph’ha, who had five courts in Ugqba, did not join in the 
Erub with the inmates of the courts. What about the disciples of the col- 
lege, eating in the inns of the valley and passing the night at the 
college ? ‘ ‘ 4 . , ‘ ; : ; : - 162-169 


MISHNAS V., VI., and VII. If five courts open into each other and an 
alley, if they combined both the courts and the alley, or only one of these. 
How Samuel was asked a question and answered with silence. Does the 
silence signify acquiescence? If two courts were one within the other, and 
all the inmates or one forgot to make an Erub; if the courts were the prop- 
erty of an individual, If an Erub was placed in the outer court and one of 
the inmates either of the outer or inner forgot to join in an Erub, carrying is 
prohibited ; and how if it was placed in one of the inner courts? If there 
was a third court between the two, also belonging to an individual, is it per- 
mitted to carry in any ofthe three? . ; : : ° ‘ 170-178 


CHAPTER VII. 


MISHNAS I., IL., III., and IV. If there be an aperture, four spans square, 
etc., between two courts. Ifin the attic of a house there was a hole for the 
purpose of fastening a ladder therein, should the house be considered solid? 
If there be a wall ten spans high and four spans wide between two courts. 
If a man comes to diminish the size of the wall referred to in the Mishna. 
An Egyptian ladder does not diminish a wall, but a ladder of Tyre does. If 
one erected two benches, one above the other, at the foot of a wall. What 
is the law if several pegs be placed on the pillar in question? I havea tra- 
dition that a ladder standing straight against a wall also diminishes its size. 
What is the law if a man used a tree, which grew right at the wall, for a 
ladder? If two courts are separated by a ditch, ten spans deep and four 
wide. ‘‘ Thou wouldst prove a contradiction from a law pertaining to unclean- 
ness to a Sabbath-law?” If there be between two courts a straw-rick, ten 
spans high. If a house which was filled with straw stand between two 
courts ? ‘ ° : ; , ° ; : : : ° 179-189 


MISHNAS V., VI., VII., and VIII. How are alleys to be combined ? If 
alleys or legal limits are combined. Whether a transfer of ownership is 
necessary in case of Erubin of cooked articles. R.Zera was asked whether 
it may be rented from the man’s wife. Note about a misprint that has 
existed since the Talmud has been published and reprinted. If the quan- 
tity of food required for the combination becomes diminished. How much 
is this legal quantity. Eighteen dried figs are sufficient for two meals. The 
Erub of courts or combination of alleys may be effected with all kinds of 
nutriment except water and salt. Is it permitted to make an Erub with 
bread made of rice or millet? A man may give money to the wine-seller 
or baker in order to acquire the right to join in the Erub. About a Meshikha 
to a sale and its explanation. If additional inhabitants came into the alley, 
the right of possession must be transferred to them, ; " 189-197 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. XV 


CHAPTER VIII. 


MISHNAS I., II., and III. How are the legal limits to be combined? A 
child that is only six years old may go out in the legal limits which have 
been combined by its mother. How much is the legal quantity of food 
required to effect the combination of limits? Note about coins and meas- 
ures mentioned in the Tract. If the inhabitants of a court and balcony 
should have forgotten to combine an Erub. If there were three ruins be- 
tween two houses, each house may use the adjoining ruin by throwing 
therein, except the middle one (with illustrations), . ; : 198-204 


MISHNAS IV., V., VI., and VII. Ifaman deposit his Erub for the com- 
bination of courts in a vestibule, gallery, or balcony. If a company was 
seated at table on the eve of Sabbath, the bread on the table may be 
depended upon to serve as an Erub. Ifa man leaves his house and goes to 
take his Sabbath-rest in another town (without previously joining in the 
Erub). If there be a well between two courts it is not lawful to draw water. 
If a canal runs through a court it is not lawful to draw water, unless there 
be a partition. If a canal flows between two walls which contain aper- 
tures, . : ‘ : i : ; : : , ‘ ‘ 204-209 


MISHNAS VIII. and IX. If there be a balcony above the water. The 
law concerning robbery is applicable also on Sabbath. If the court be less 
than four ells square it is not permitted to pour water therein on Sabbath, 
unless a sewer is made. All these regulations concerning the pouring of 
water apply only to summer, : : : ; ‘ : ; 209-213 


CHAPTER IX. 


MISHNAS I. and II. All the roofs of a town are considered one private 
ground, provided there be not one roof ten hands higher than the rest. Ifa 
man erected an attic on top of his house and provided it with a small door 
four spans wide, he may carry things in all the roofs. All roofs are con- 
sidered as one private ground in their own right. ‘It happened in a time 
of danger that we brought up the sacred scrolls from a court to a roof.” Ifa 
large roof adjoins a small one. If there are three woodsheds opening into 
each other, of which the two outer are enclosed while the middle one is not 
(with illustrations), : ‘ : ; : ; : : : 214-223 


MISHNAS III., IV., and V. Ifa court (through an incavation of its walls) 
is laid open to public ground. In acourt (the corner walls of which had 
fallen in on Sabbath so) that it has been laid open to public ground on two 
sides, If an attic be built over two houses, also if bridges are open at both 
ends, . : : ; 5 ‘ ; : ; : : : 223-226 


CHAPTER X. 


MISHNAS I., II., and III. If a man finds tephilin on the road he shou'd 
watch them and bring them into the nearest town or village ; likewise his 
child he should hand to his companion, etc. If one buystephilin of a man who 
is not an expert, he must examine two tephilin. How came his child on the 
field or on the road? This refers to a child that was born there. If a man 
reads in a scroll (of sacred scriptures) on the threshold of the house and it 





xvi SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


slips out of his hand, On a ledge outside a window it is permitted to piace 
vessels, P ; . ’ ‘ ; ; : ‘ : ‘i 227-235 


MIsHNAS IV., V., VI, VII., VIII., and IX. A man may stand in private 
ground and move things that are in public ground. A man must not, 
standing in private ground, drink in public ground. A man may catch 
water dropping from a spout on the roof. If a well, standing in public 
ground, have an enclosure ten spans high. Beneath a tree, the branches of 
which droop and cover the ground. The shutters of a bleaching ground or 
thorn bushes, ‘ . F , P . A R rs ; 235-240 


MISHNAS X. to XVIII. A man must not, standing in private ground, 
unlock with a key something in public ground. A loose bolt, with a knob 
to it, is prohibited to use on Sabbath. A loose bolt that is fastened toa 
rope may be used in the Temple only. In the Temple the lower hinge of a 
cupboard door may be refitted into its place. Priests who minister may 
replace a plaster in the Temple. The Levites performing on musical instru- 
ments may tie a string. The priests who minister may remove a wart from 
an animal on Sabbath. A ministering priest who hurts his finger may bind 
it up with reeds in the Temple. Should the carcass of a dead reptile be 
found in the Temple on the Sabbath the priest shall move it out with his 
belt. From which parts of the Temple should it be removed? It is per- 
mitted for anyone to enter the Temple for the purpose of building, 240-251 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


VOLUME IV.—TRACT SHEKALIM.* 





CHAPTER I. 


MISHNA @ treats of: What were the duties of the Beth Din in the month 
of Adar in the time of the second Temple. When the Megillah (Book of 
Esther) was to be read in the fortified cities. For what purpose messengers 
were sent out, and what were the things to be heralded. 


MISHNA @ treats of : What was the punishment for not obeying the com- 
mandments of Kelayim in the former times and later. 


MISHNA ¢ deals with: When the money-changers, with their tables, 
began their work in the countries of Judea and in Jerusalem. The time for 
pledges which were taken for not paying the Shekalim. From what persons 
the pledges were to be taken. If a father might pay the Shekalim for his 
children. 


MISHNA @ treats of : What ordinance Ben Buchri proclaimed in Jamnia 
in behalf of the priests, and what R. Johanan b. Zakkai rejoined. The 
defence of the priests, with their interpretation of biblical passages, which 
was accepted only for the sake of peace. 


MISHNA ¢ treats of: The voluntary payment of Shekalim from women, 
slaves, and minors being accepted, but not from the heathens or Samaritans. 
Bird-offerings not accepted from persons affected with venereal diseases or 
from women after confinement. Sin and vow offerings, however, were 
accepted from the Samaritans. The vow-offerings were also accepted from 
heathens. The general rule concerning this. 


MISHNA / deals with: The premium one had to pay in addition to the 
half-shekel. Who was obliged to do so? The different opinions of the 
sages and R. Meir. How much one had to pay if given one Selah and taking 
a shekel in exchange. 





* See introduction to synopsis in Tract Sabbath, Vol. I., p. xxix. This tract has 
no Gemara. The synopsis contains the Mishnas, with their commentaries. 
xiii 








XIV SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


MISHNA g treats of: The law concerning one who pays for a poor man, 
for a neighbor, and for a countryman. Law concerning brothers and part- 
ners paying together ; also, law regarding cattle-tithe. How much was the 
premium. 

CHAPTER II. yee 


MISHNA a. One may put together the Shekalim and exchange them for 
a gold coin called Darkon. Concerning thechests which were given to the 
collectors in the country and at Jerusalem. What is the law if money were 
stolen or lost by the messengers of a city, when a portion of the Shekalim 
was already expended ; what is the law if not expended. 


MISHNA 4, Concerning the law when one gives his shekels to another to 
pay his head-taxes for him; if he pays his shekels from the money of the 
second tithes or from the money of the fruit of the Sabbatical year. Con- 
cerning how he shall replace it and use it for the same purpose. 


MISHNA ¢. The law concerning one who gathered single coins little by 
little and said: ‘‘ With this money I shall pay my shekels.” The different 
opinions of the schools of Hillel and Shamai in this matter. Concerning the 
same case when one gathers money for sin-offerings, What shall be done 
with the eventual remains of such money. 


MISHNA @. Concerning the explanation of R. Simeon of the teachings 
of the school of Hillel. The discussion of the former with R. Jehudah. The 
claims of the latter that the coins of the Shekalim were also changed in times 
and places. The rejoinder of R. Simeon to this. 


MISHNA é. The law concerning the remainder of money intended for 
Shekalim when considered to be ordinary. Regarding the remainder of the 
tenth part of an ephah, bird-offerings, and guilt-offerings : what shall be done 
with it. A rule concerning this matter. Also, regulations concerning the 
remainder of Passover sacrifices, Nazarite offerings, the remainder of moneys 
for the poor in general and individuals, of money for prisoners, for burial of 
the dead, and R. Meir and R. Nathan’s opinions regarding this matter. 


CHAPTER III. 


MISHNA a. Regarding the appointed periods of the year when the money 
was drawn from the treasury. The different opinions, concerning this 
matter, of R. Aqiba b. Asai, R. Eliezer, and R. sre The same time 
appointed for cattle-tithes. 


MISHNA 6, Concerning the ceremony of drawing the money at all 
periods of the year. The law regarding measures of the boxes in which the 
coins of the Shekalim were filled, and the numbers of the chests in which 
the money was drawn from the boxes for the expenses of the Temple. 
Which box must be opened first, and which last. What garments the person 
drawing the money must wear. Howaman must stand unblemished before 
his fellow-man and before his God. 


MISHNA ¢. Concerning the custom of the house of Rabban Gamaliel, 
when the members of the house had paid their Shekalim. The law regarding 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. — Xv 


one who drew money did not commence until he had said to the bystanders, 
“‘T will now draw,” and they answered, ‘‘ Draw, draw, draw,” three times. 


MISHNA d@. Concerning the covering of the boxes after drawing the 
money. For which countries the drawings were performed in the first 
period, the second, and the third. 


CHAPTER IV. 


MISHNA a. What was done with the money drawn? Concerning the 
watchmen that were sent out to guard the after-growth of the Sabbatical 
year, of which the Omer and two loaves were taken for sacrifice. The 
opinion of R. Jose in this matter, and what the rabbis answered. 


MISHNA 4. Concerning the red heifer, the goat that was to be sent away, 
the strip of scarlet, the bridge for the cow, the bridge for the goat, the canal, 
the city wall, the towers, and other necessities of the city: all were paid for 
out of the Shekalim money. What Abba Saul said. 


MISHNA c. What was done with the balance of the money left over in 
the treasury. The discussion of R. Ishmael and R. Aqiba in this matter. 
Some of the many things which are enumerated in the Palestinian Talmud 
and which were done with this money. Among them was the hiring of 
teachers for priests to teach them the laws of the sacrifices. 


MISHNA @, What was done with the remainder of the moneys of the 
chest. The different opinions of R. Ishmael, R. Aqiba, and R. Hanina, the 
assistant chief of the priests, concerning profit: if it might be raised from 
the remaining money or not, and of what money the gold plates for the 
decorations of the Holy of Holies were made. Also, concerning the benefit 
of the altar. 


MISHNA é¢. What was done with the remainder of the incense (as the 
incense of the New Year must be bought with the new Shekalim money). 
The sanctification of the incense on hand then transferred to that money, 
and then redeemed with the money of the new revenue. 


MISHNA f. Concerning the law when one devoted his entire possessions 
in honor of the Lord: what should be done with them. The discussions of 
R. Aqiba and Ben Asai regarding this matter. 


MISHNA g. Concerning the law when one devoted his possessions, and 
among them were cattle, male and female, fit for the altar. The discussions 
of this matter between R. Eliezer and R. Jehoshua. R. Agqiba is inclined 
to the opinion of R. Eliezer, which seems to him to be more proper, but adds 
that he had heard that both opinions were right according to circumstances, 


' MISHNA 4. If one devote his possessions, and among them are things 
fit for the altar, such as wines, oils, and birds, what should be done with 
them. R. Eliezer decreed it, and no one opposed him. 


MISHNA z. Contractors, for the delivery of all things for the altar and 
the improvements of the Temple, were appointed every month ; but if the 








xvi SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


prices changed during the thirty days, the Sanctuary must not suffer any 
injury. Such was the agreement made between them. The illustration 
of this. 


CHAPTER V. 


MISHNA a. Concerning some names of the offices and the heads of them 
in the Sanctuary during the entire period when the second Temple was in 
existence. What were the officers’ duties, and how they officiated. 


MISHNA 4, Concerning the order of the head officers ; namely, the king, 
the high priest, his assistant, two catholicoses, and seven chamberlains, not 
less than two officers being put in charge of public moneys. 


MISHNA ¢, Regarding the seals that were in the Sanctuary, serving for . 


the beverages and meat-offerings which must be brought, according to the 
Bible, with every sacrifice. Concerning the inscription on the seals and 
their usage. Ben Azai added one seal for the poor sinner. The names of 
the officers, of the seal-keeper and the officer who sells the above offerings. 


MISHNA @. The date must be put on every seal. The law regarding 
surplus money being found in the treasury of the seal-keeper ; to whom it 
belongs ; and if a deficit, who must supply it. 


MISHNA ¢. The law concerning one who lost his seal; what must be 
done. ; 


MIsHNA f. Concerning the two chambers in the Sanctuary, of which 
one was Called ‘‘ Chamber of Silence” and the other ‘‘ Chamber of Utensils.” 
What was done there, during what time they were investigated, and what 
was done with the presented utensils which were useless for the Temple. 


CHAPTER VI. 


MISHNA a. Concerning the thirteen covered chests and thirteen tables 
which were in the Sanctuary. How many prostrations took place in the 
Sanctuary. How R. Gamaliel and R. Hanina, assistant chief of the high 
priest, added one in the place where the ark was hidden. 


MISHNA 4. Relates how a blemished priest who was engaged in select- 
ing and peeling wood had noticed the place where the ark was hidden, but 
before he had time to tell it to the others he expired. 


MISHNA ¢. Concerning the directions where the prostrations were 
made. How many gates were in the Temple: their names, and why they 
were so named; also, different opinions of the sages concerning this. 
There were two gates which were nameless. 


MISHNA d@. Of what material the thirteen tables were made, where they 
stood, for what purpose they were used. Concerning the golden table in 
the Temple itself, upon which the showbreads were constantly lying. 


MISHNA ¢. Concerning the inscriptions on the thirteen covered chests 


in the Sanctuary, and what was done with them. The different opinions of 
R. Jehudah and the sages as to using certain money put in some chests. 


, 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. xvii 


MISHNA /. Concerning the amount of articles to be furnished in pay- 
ment of a vow one made, who did not explain how much he intended to 
give ; for instance, wood, incense, gold coins, etc. A rule that was made 
concerning this. The hides of all sacrifices belong to the priest. 


CHAPTER VII. 


MISHNA a. If money was found in between the differently marked 
chests, to which chest the money belonged. Concerning this the rule was: 
One must be guided by the proximity, even in the case of the less impor- 
tant, etc. ; 


MISHNA 4. Concerning money found in Jerusalem, in the court of the 
Temple, in the times of the Festivals and in the ordinary times. 


MISHNA ¢c. Concerning meat found in the court of the Temple, in the 
city, and any place where Israelites resided and where Gentiles and Israel- 
ites together resided. _ 


MISHNA @. Concerning cattle found between Jerusalem and Migdal 
Eder, and in the vicinity of the city in all directions: what the law pre- 
scribes. The different opinions of some sages. 


MISHNA é. Relates how, in former days, the finder of such cattle was 
pledged to bring drink-offerings, and how afterwards the high court decreed 
to furnish them from the public moneys. 


MISHNAS f and g. R. Simeon named seven decrees which were promul- 
gated by the high court, and the above decree was one of them. R. Jehudah, 
however, does not agree on some points with him. R. Jose has also some- 
thing to say about this. 


CHAPTER VIII. 


MISHNA a. Concerning streets in which people must walk during the 
time of the Festival in Jerusalem, for the sake of cleanness. The different 
opinions, in this matter, of R. Meir and the sages. 


MISHNA 4. Regarding utensils found on the way towards the plunge- 
baths : if they are clean or not, and the different opinions of R. Meir and 
R. Jose. 


MISHNA c. Regarding the butcher-knife, if it was found in the street on 
the 14th of Nissan ; and what is the case if the 14th falls on a Sabbath. 


MISHNA @. Concerning where the curtain of the Sanctuary must be 
submerged if it become defiled. The first time it was submerged it was 
spread out for the people to admire the beauty of the work. 


MISHNA ¢. What Rabban Simeon b. Gamaliel had to tell in the name of 
Simeon, the son of the assistant high priest. How the curtain was made: 
the great amount of the cost and how many hundred priests were required 
to submerge it. 





xViii SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


MISHNA f/. If meat of the Holy of Holies became defiled, where it must 
be burned. The different opinions of the schools of Shamai and Hillel on 
this point. 

MISHNA g. The different opinions of R. Eliezer and R. Aqiba concern- 
ing anything that had become defiled through a principal uncleanness. 


MISHNA #, The joints of the daily sacrifices, where they were laid down ; 
the sacrifices of the new moon, where they were placed. The payment of 
Shekalim, if it was obligatory after the destruction of the Temple. . The same 
law regarding cattle-tithe, tithes of grain, and deliverance of the firstlings. 
The law if one sanctified Shekalim or firstlings after the destruction of the 
Temple. 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


TRACT ROSH HASHANA* 





CHAPTER I. 


MIsHNA I, The first Mishna ordains New Year’s Days, viz.: For kings, 
for the cattle-tithe, for ordinary years, and for the planting of trees. A king 
who ascends the throne on the 2gth of Adar must be considered to have 
reigned one year as soon as the first of Nissan comes. The Exodus from 
Egypt is reckoned from Nissan. When Aaron died Sihon was still living. 
He heard that Aaron was dead and that the clouds of glory had departed. 
The rule about Nissan only concerned the kings of Israel; but for the kings 
of other nations, they reckoned from Tishri. Cyrus was a most upright 
king, and the Hebrews reckoned his years as they did those of the kings 
of Israel. One is guilty of procrastination, Charity, tithes, the glean- 
ings of the field, that which is forgotten to be gathered in the field, the 
produce of corners of the field. 

One is culpable if he does not give forthwith that which he has vowed for 
charity. In the case of charity it must be given immediately, for the poor 
are always to be found. The Feast of Weeks falls on the fifth, sixth, or 
seventh of Sivan. 

How the law against delay affects a woman. In which month is grain in 
the early stage of ripening? Only inthe month of Nissan. It is also the 
New Year for leap-year and for giving the half-shekels. Congregational sac- 
rifices brought on the first of Nissan should be purchased with the shekels 
raised for the New Year. He who lets a house to another for a year must 
count (the year) as twelve months from day to day; but if the lessee says (I 
rent this house) ‘‘ for ¢#is year,” even if the transaction takes place on the 
first of Adar, as soon as the first of Nissan arrives the year (of rental) has 
expired. The first of Tishri is the New Year for divine judgment. At the 
beginning of the year it is determined what shall be at the end of the year. 
The Supreme Court in Heaven does not enter into judgment until the Beth 





* See introduction to synopsis of Tract Sabbath, Vol. I., p. xxix. 


Xxili 














XXIV SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


Din on earth proclaims the new moon. Israel enters for judgment first. If 
a king and a congregation have a lawsuit, the king enters first. From New 
Year’s Day until the Day of Atonement, slaves used not to return to their 
(own) homes ; neither did they serve their masters, but they ate and drank 
and rejoiced, with the crown of freedom on their heads. R. Eliezer says, 
that the world was created in Tishri. R. Joshua says, that the world was 
created in Nissan. Says R. Joshua, God grants the righteous the fulfilment 
of the years of their life to the very month and day. Sarah, Rachel, and 
Hannah were visited on New Year’s Day. Joseph was released from prison 
on New Year’s Day. On New Year’s Day the bondage of our fathers in 
Egypt ceased. The Jewish sages fix the time of the flood according to R. 
Eliezer, and the solstices according to R. Joshua; but the sages of other 
nations fix the time of the flood also as R. Joshua does. Whoso vows to 
derive no benefit from his neighbor for a year must reckon (for the year) 
twelve months, from day to day; but if he said “for this year,” if he made 
the vow even on the twenty-ninth of Elul, as soon as the first of Tishri 
comes that year is complete. The New Year for giving tifhes is for a tree 
from the time the fruits form; for grain and olives, when they are one-third 


- ripe; and for herbs, when they are gathered. R. Aqiba picked the fruit of 


a citron-tree on the first of Shebhat and gave two tithes ofthem, . I-20 


MIsHNA II. At four periods in each year the world is judged. All dre 
judged on New Year's Day and the sentence is fixed on the Day of Atone- 
ment. R. Nathan holds man is judged at all times. God said: ‘‘ Offer before 
Me the first sheaf of produce on Passover, so that the standing grain may be 
blessed unto you. Recite before. Me on New Year’s Day the Malkhioth, 
that you proclaim Me King; the Zikhronoth, that your remembrance may 
come before Me, for good, and how (shall this be done)?” By the sounding 
of the cornet. Three circumstances cause a man to remember his sins. 
Four things avert the evil decree passed (by God) on man; viz., charity, 
prayer, change of name, and improvement. Some add to these four a fifth 
—change of location. Three books are opened on New Year’s Day: one 
for the entirely wicked, one for the wholly good, and one for the average 
class of people. The school of Hillel says: The most compassionate 
inclines (the scale of justice) to the side of mercy. Who are those who 
inspire their fellowmen with dread of them? A leader of a community 
who causes the people to fear him over-much, without furthering thereby a 
high purpose. The legend how R. Joshua fell sick and R. Papa went to 
visit him. The Holy One, blessed be He, wrapped Himself, as does one 
who recites the prayers for a congregation, and pointing out to Moses the 
regular order of prayer, said to him: “ Whenever Israel sins, let him pray to 
Me after this order, and I shall pardon him.” Prayer is helpful for man 
before or after the decree has been pronounced. The legend of a certain 
family in Jerusalem whose members died at eighteen years of age. They 
came and informed R. Johanan ben Zakkai. The Creator sees all their 
hearts (at a glance) and (at once) understands all their works, . 20-28 


MISHNA III, Messengers were sent out in the following six months: in 
Nissan, Abb, Elul, Tishri, Kislev, and in Adar. The legend of the king 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. XXV 


(of Syria who had earlier) issued a decree forbidding the study of the Torah 
among the Israelites, or to circumcise their sons, and compelling them to 
desecrate their Sabbath. Judah b. Shamua and his friends cried aloud: “O 
heavens! Are we not all brethren? Are we not all the children of one 
Father?” etc. Samuel said: ‘‘I can arrange the calendar for the whole cap- 
tivity.” Rabha used to fast two days for the Day of Atonement. Once it 
happened that he was right, . A , , . . ’ ; 29-34 


MISHNAS IV. to VII. For the sake of (the new moon), of the two months 
Nissan and Tishri, witnesses may profane the Sabbath. Formerly they pro- 
faned the Sabbath for all (new moons), but since the destruction of the 
Temple they instituted that (witnesses) might profane the Sabbath only on 
account of Nissan and Tishri. It once happened that more than forty pair 
(of witnesses) were on the highway (to Jerusalem) on theSabbath. Shagbar, 
the superintendent of Gader, detained them, and (when) R. Gamaliel (heard 
of it, he) sent and dismissed him. It once happened, that Tobias the physi- 
cian, his son, and his freed slave saw the new moon in Jerusalem. The 
explanation of the passage Exodus xii. 1, by R. Simeon and the rabbis. 
Who are incompetent witnesses? Gamblers with dice, etc., . : 34-36 


CHAPTER II. 


MIsHNAS I. toIV. If the Beth Din did not know (the witness), another 
was sent with him to testify in his behalf. It once happened that R. Nehorai 
went to Usha on the Sabbath to testify (to the character) of one witness. 
The legend how the Boéthusians appointed false witnesses. Formerly bon- 
fires were lighted (to announce the appearance of the new moon) ; but when 
the Cutheans practised their deceit it was ordained that messengers should 
be sent out. There are four kinds of cedars. The whole country looked 
like a blazing fire. Each Israelite took a torch in his hand and ascended to 
the roof of his house. Great feasts were made -for (the witnesses) in order 
to induce them to come frequently. How were the witnesses examined ? 
The sun never faces the concave of the crescent or the concave of a rain- 
bow. (If the witnesses say) ‘We have seen the reflection (of the moon) in 
the water, or through a metal mirror, or in the clouds,” “ their testimony is 
not to be accepted.” The chief of the Beth Din says: ‘It (the new moon) 
is consecrated,” and all the people repeated after Him: “It is consecrated, 
it is consecrated.” Pelimo teaches: ‘‘ When the new moon appeared at its 
proper time, they used not to consecrate it,” . : ; : , 37-42 


MISHNAS V. and VI. R. Gamaliel had on a tablet, and on the wall of his 
upper room, illustrations of the various phases of the moon, Is this per- 
mitted? Yea, he had them made to teach by means of them. It happened 
once, that two witnesses came and said: ‘‘We saw the moon in the east- 
ern part in the morning and in the western part in the evening.” R. Johanan 
b. Nuri declared them to be false witnesses. Two other witnesses came and 
said: ‘‘We saw the moon on its proper day, but could not see it on the 
next evening.” R.Gamaliel received them ; but R. Dosa b. Harkhinas said : 
“They are false witnesses.” R. Joshua approved his opinion. Upon this, 














XXVi SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


Gamaliel ordered the former to appear before him on the Day of Atonement, 
according to his computation, with his staff and with money. What R. 
Joshua did, and what R. Aqiba and R. Dosa b. Harkhinas said about it. 
What R. Hiyya said when he saw the old moon yet on the morning of the 
twenty-ninth day. Rabbi said to R. Hiyya: ‘‘Go to Entob and consecrate 
the month, and send back to me as a password, ‘ David the King of Israel 
still lives.’”. The consecration of the moon cannot take place at a period less 
than twenty-nine and a half days, two-thirds and .0052 (z.¢., seventy-three 
Halaqim) of an hour. Even if the commonest of the common is appointed 
leader by a community, he must be considered as the noblest of the nobility. 
A judge is to be held, ‘‘in his days,” equal in authority with the greatest of 
his antecedents. Gamaliel said to R. Joshua: “ Happy is the generation 
in which the leaders listen to their followers, and through this the followers 
consider it so much the more their duty (to heed the teachings of the 
leaders),” . : : ‘ ; ; : ; ; ; ; : 42-44 


CHAPTER III. 


MISHNA I. If the Beth Din and all Israel saw (the moon on the night 
of the thirtieth day), but there was no time to proclaim, ‘It is consecrated,” 
before it has become dark, the month is intercalary. When three who 
formed a Beth Din saw it, two should stand up as witnesses and substitute 
two of their learned friends with the remaining one (to form a Beth Din). 
No greater authority than Moses, our master, yet God said to him that Aaron 
should act with him. No witness of a crime may act as judge, but in civil 
cases he may, . , ; 3 ‘ 2 : : ; ; 45-46 


MISHNAS II. to IV. Concerning what kind of cornets may be used on 
New Year’s and Jubilee days. Some words in the Scripture which the 
rabbis could not explain, until they heard the people speak among them- 
selves. The cornet used on the New Year was a straight horn of a wild 
goat, the mouthpiece covered with gold. The Jubilee and the New Year's 
Day were alike in respect to the sounding (of the cornet) and the benedic- 
tions, but R. Jehudah’s opinion was different. R.Jehudah holds that on 
New Year’s Day the more bent in spirit a man is, and on the Day of Atone- 
ment the more upright he is (in his confessions), the better; but R. Levi 
holds the contrary. ‘‘ On the fast days two crooked ram’s-horns were used, 
their mouthpieces being covered with silver.” According to whom do we 
nowadays pray: ‘‘ This day celebrates the beginning of thy work, a memo- 
rial of the first day”? It is unlawful to use a cornet that has been split and 
afterwards joined together. If one should happen to pass by a synagogue, 
or live close by it and should hear the cornet, he will have complied with 
the requirements of the law. If one covered a cornet on the inside with 
gold it might not be used. If one heard a part of (the required number of) 
the sounds of the cornet in the pit, and the rest at the pit’s mouth, he has 
done his duty. If one blew the first sound (Teqia), and prolonged the 
second (Teqia) as long as two, it is only reckoned as one. If one who 
listened (to the sounds of the cornet) paid the proper attention, but he that 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. XXvii 


blew the cornet did not, or vice versa, they have not done their duty until 
both blower and listener pay proper attention. If special attention in fulfil- 
ling a commandment or doing a transgression is necessary or not. Aslong 
as Israel looked’ to Heaven for aid, and directed their hearts devoutly to 
their Father in Heaven, they prevailed ; but when they ceased to do so, they 
failed. All are obliged to hear the sounding of the cornet, priests, Levites, 
and Israelites, proselytes, freed slaves, a monstrosity, a hermaphrodite, and 
one who is half-slave and half-free. One may not say the benediction over 
bread for guests unless he eats with them, but he may for the members of 
the family, to initiate them into their religious duties, . Z ‘ 46-52 


CHAPTER IV. 


MISHNAS I. toIV. Regarding if the New Year fall on Sabbath. Where 
the shofer (cornet) should be blown after the Temple was destroyed. What 
was the difference between Jamnia and Jerusalem? Once it happened that 
New Year’s Day fell on the Sabbath, and all the cities gathered together. 
Said R. Johanan b. Zakkai to the Benai Betherah: ‘‘ Let us sound (the 
cornet)!” ‘ First,” said they, ‘let us discuss!” R. Johanan b. Zakkai 
ordained that the palm-branch should everywhere be taken seven days, in 
commemoration of the Temple. Since the destruction of the Temple, R. 
Johanan b. Zakkai ordained that it should be prohibited (to eat of the new 
produce) the whole of the day of waving (the sheaf-offering). Once the wit- 
nesses were delayed in coming, and they disturbed the song of the Levites. 
They then ordained that evidence should only be received until (the time 
of) the afternoon service. Concerning what songs the Levites had to sing 
every day from the Psalms. What did the Levites sing when the additional 
sacrifices were being offered on the Sabbath?’ What did they sing at the 
Sabbath afternoon service? According to tradition, a corresponding 
number of times was the Sanhedrin exiled. The witnesses need only go to 
the meeting place (of the Beth Din). Priests may not ascend the platform in 
sandals, to bless the people ; and this is one of the nine ordinances instituted 
by R. Johanan b. Zakkai, ; : : ; ; ‘ raed ae 53-57 


MISHNA V. Regarding the order of the benedictions on New Year's 
Day at the morning prayer, additional prayers, and at what time the cornet 
must be blown, etc. What passages from the Scriptures are selected for 
additional prayers on New Year’s Day. To what do the ten scriptural pas- 
sages used for the Malkhioth correspond? How many passages must be 
recited from Pentateuch, Prophets, and Hagiographa? We must not men- 
tion the remembrance of the individual (in the Zikhronoth), even if the 
passage speaks of pleasant things. What are the passages which must be 
said in the benediction of Malkhioth, Zikhronoth, and the Shophroth? R. 
Elazar b. R. Jose says: ‘‘ The Vathiqin used to conclude with a passage 
from the Pentateuch.” ‘‘ Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is our Lord,” 
may be used in the Malkhioth. The second of those who act as ministers of 
the congregation on the Feast of New Year shall cause another to sound the 
cornet on days when the Hallel (Service of Praise, Ps. cxiii—cxviii.) is read. 

















XXViii SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


We are permitted to occupy ourselves with teaching (children) until they 
learn (to sound the cornet), even on the Sabbath. The order, and how 
many times it must be blown; also, the different sounds and the names of 
them. How all this is deduced from the Bible, and the difference of opinions 
between the sages. Generally the soundings of the cornet do not interfere 
with each other, nor do the benedictions, but on New Year's Day and the Day 
of Atonement they do. R. Papa b. Samuel rose to recite his prayers. Said he 
to his attendant, ‘When I nod to you, sound (the cornet) for me.” Rabha 
said to him, that this may only be done in the congregation. A man should 
always first prepare himself for prayer, and then pray. R. Jehudah prayed 
only once in thirty days, Z ; F : ‘ é 57-66 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


VOLUME V.—TRACT PESACHIM.* 





CHAPTER I. 


MISHNA I. What is meant by Or? The explanation of the phrase (Job 
xxiv. 14), ‘‘ with the earliest light.” At no time should a man allow an ill- 
sounding word to escape from his mouth. What the two disciples of Rabh 
and R. Johanan b, Zakkai said: Go and report it to the horses. Ifa house 
was rented and it is not known whether the leavened bread had been 
searched for. If a man leave his house and intend to return on the Pass- 
over. Two things are without the province of man. If musty bread was 
found in a chest. By what light search for leavened bread must be made. 
Whether wine-cellars have to be searched, : ‘ : , : I-14 


MISHNAS II, III., 1V., V. If a man leaves ten pieces of bread and finds 
nine, or nine heaps of Matzoth, and one heap of Chometz, and finds ten. 
When search for Chometz must be made. The reason why Chometz must be 
removed on the fourteenth of Nissan. If a Gentile came into the court of an 
Israelite on Passover. Of the Gentile who stored a basketful of Chometz 
with Johanan Hakuka. The two thanksgiving-offering cakes laid on the 
benches. What R. Hanina the Sagan of the priests said. If there were 
doubtful beverages, : : : : eouee ; Saas 14-29. 


CHAPTER II. 


MIsHNA I. What one may do as long as it is lawful to eat unleavened 
bread. Why the Mishna enumerates domestic and wild animals. Whence 
we know that no benefit may be derived from leaven on Passover. Wher- 
_ ever it is written, ‘‘ Ye shall not eat,” the object in question must not even be 
used. By means of what a man is permitted to cure himself when in danger. 
A man must rather permit himself to be slain than to slay another. Accord- 
ing to whom the Halakha prevails when Rabbi differs with an individual or 
the majority, . é . ; . : ° ‘ . . ° 30-41 





* See introduction to the synopsis in Tract Sabbath, Vol. I., p. xxix. 
vii 

















Viii SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


MIsHNAS IL, III, IV., V., VI. Concerning leaven belonging to a Gentile. 
Whether a man may eat the leaven of a Gentile. Whether earthenware pots 
used during the year must be destroyed before Passover. About an oven 
greased with fat immediately after it had been heated. If a Gentile lent 
money to an Israelite, taking as security leavened articles, and vice versa. 
About leaven covered by ruins. About leavened heave-offering. Whether 
leavened articles have a pecuniary value on Passover. With which articles a 
person acquits himself of the duty of eating unleavened bread on Passover. 
Whether one can acquit himself of the duty with bread kneaded with wine, 
oil, or honey. What is meant by bread of affliction. an it is not allowed 
to prepare figured cakes on Passover, . ‘ ‘ 41-59 


MIsHNAS VII. to IX. The duty of eating bitter he on the Passover. 
Whether lettuce is to be preferred to other bitter herbs. About soaking 
bran on Passover to feed fowls. Where the mother of Mar b. Rabhina 
bought her wheat for her son. Whether it is lawful to put flour into sauce 
or mustard. Whether it is lawful to cook the paschal lamb after it has been 
roasted. With which kind of water may a woman knead the dough, 59-67 


CHAPTER III. 


MISHNAS I. to V. Whether Babylonian Kuthach, Median beer, etc., may 
be used on Passover. About the paste used by scribes. Whether women are 
held to be equal to men in regard to prohibitory laws. About dough in the 
holes or crevices of a kneading-trough. About dull dough. How the first 
of the dough due to the priest can be separated on the Passover. About 
the three women who may knead dough for Passover, . : : 68-77 


MISHNAS VI., VII., VIII. About dough which commences to become 
leavened. If the fourteenth of Nissan fall on the Sabbath, what must be 
done. When one going to fulfil a religious duty on the eve of Passover 
recollects that he has Chometz left at home. In which case may a scholar 
enjoy his meal. For what meritorious purpose a man should sell all his pos- 
sessions. What R. Aqiba said about a scholar when he was ignorant. 
What sentiment a man who occupies himself with study of the law evokes in 
the heart of a common person. Why it is written that the Lord will be one, 
and His name will be one on ¢hat day, and not at present, . ; 77-83 


CHAPTER IV. 


MISHNAS I., IL, III., IV. How a man should conduct himself who 
removes from a place where a thing is allowed to a place where it is not 
allowed, or vice versa. If one depends on the earnings of his wife. Those 
who write scrolls, etc., or sell them, etc., do not perceive any blessing for 
their work. What Rabba bar bar Hana said to his son. What R. Johanan 
b. Elazar related. May we, being versed in the calendar, do work on the 
second day of a festival in exile? Whether roasted meat may be eaten on 
the night of Passover. What justified Hananiah, Mishaél, and Azariah to 
permit themselves to be thrown into the fiery furnace. When the fire of 
Gehenna was created. In what respect every man should consider himself 
a scholar. What it is permitted to do on the eve and intermediate days of a 
festival, What are the six things done by the inhabitants of Jericho and 
King Hezekiah, and which met with the rabbis’ approval. Four shouts 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. ix 


sent up in the court of the Temple. What happened to Issachar, the man of 
the village of Barkai,_ . x k L 4 i . ‘ 84-105 


CHAPTER V. 


MisuHNaS I., II., III., IV., V. The time of offering the paschal lamb. If 
the Passover-sacrifice had not been slaughtered for its purpose. If the pas- 
chal lamb was slaughtered for those who will not partake thereof. The 
inhabitants of what places must not be taught the contents of the book of 
ancestry. Since the book of ancestry was concealed, the power of our sages 
was on the wane, etc. If aman offers the Passover-sacrifice while still hav- 
ing leaven in his possession. For how many divisions the paschal lamb was 
offered, etc., . , : j ; ‘ ; 5 7 ‘ : 106-124 


CHAPTER VI. 


MISHNA I. Which acts necessary for the sacrifice of the paschal offering 
supersede Sabbath. How Hiellel the Elder became Nassi, and what happened 
subsequently. What befalls him who is arrogant, and him who becomes 
angry. Inthe future the righteous would have the power to arouse the dead. 
How pleasing the fulfilment of a religious duty at its proper time was to our 
ancestors, : . . . : . : ‘ : ° r 125-133 


MISHNAS II, III. Under what circumstances it is allowed to bring a 
festal offering in addition to the paschal sacrifice. What is meant by 
Abhin Thekla? (See note.) If a person brought a paschal sacrifice on 
the Sabbath not for its proper purpose. What R. Hyya of Abel Arab 
declared, ‘ = : ‘ : ; . 5 ; ‘ ; 133-142 


CHAPTER VII. 


MIsHNAS L., IL., III., 1V., V. How the paschal lamb should be roasted, 
About diluted vinegar, whether it may be used. If any part of the roasted 
lamb had touched the earthenware oven on which it was roasted. The five 
kinds of sacrifices that may be brought by those who are in a state of ritual 
uncleanness. If the flesh of the paschal sacrifice has become ritually defiled. 
If the whole or the greater part of the congregation had become defiled. If 
one half of the congregation be clean, and the other half unclean, 143-156 

MISHNAS VI., VII., VIII., [X., X. For what defilements the golden plate 
of the high-priest atones. When, and with which wood, must the lamb be 
burned, if defiled. If a slaughtered Passover-sacrifice had been carried 
beyond the walls of Jerusalem. When the bones, sinews, etc., must be 
burned. Which part of the paschal kid or lamb may be eaten, . 156-165 


MIsHNAS XI., XII., XIII. What penalty is due for breaking any bones 
of the clean paschal lamb. If a part of a member of the paschal sacrifice 
_ protrude beyond the Temple, etc. If two companies eat their paschal sacri- 
fice in one room, and if there is among them a bride, what they and she 
must do, What was said and done when R. Ishmael b. R. Jose happened to 
be a guest of R. Simeon b. R. Jose b. Lakunia, . : date 165-172 


CHAPTER VIII. 


MisuHnas I,, II., III., IV., V. If two paschal lambs were slaughtered for 
a lying-in woman by her relatives. The Hagadic explanation of the verses 

















x SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


in Solomon’s Song viii. 8, and viii. 10, etc. The legend of what the Holy 
One, blessed be He, said to Prophet Hosea, what he answered Him, and what 
befell subsequently. Woe is to a dominion that overwhelms its own master. 
For what purpose Israel was sent into exile. The reason why the Romans 
did not destroy all Israelites. Why Israel was exiled to Babylon. The day 
on which all the children of Israel will be recalled from exile will be as great 
as that on which the world was created. If a person order his slave to go 
and slaughter for him the paschal sacrifice. If a man say to his sons, I 
slaughter the paschal sacrifice for whichever one of you shall arrive first in 
Jerusalem, The size of an olive of the paschal lamb suffices for those who 
partake of it. If a person had appointed others to partake with him of his 
share, : ; ‘ . i : : : 173-185 
MISHNAS VI., VII., VIII., IX. Whether one whose seventh day of 
sprinkling fall on the eve of Passover may partake of the paschal lamb. 
A mourner who has lost a relative on the 14th of Nissan. A prisoner 
who has the assurance of a release. Whether the paschal sacrifice must be 
slaughtered for a single individual. Whether a mourner for a near relative, 
not yet interred, may eat of the paschal sacrifice. When a Gentile proselyte 
may partake of it, : ; : : , ; : : : 185-190 


CHAPTER IX, 


MISHNAS I.,, II., III. Who must observe the second Passover. Must a 
woman bring a second Passover-offering ? Concerning neglecting to sacri- 
fice. What must be considered a distant journey? How much the entire 
world measures. What the disciples of Elijah taught. The difference 
between the sages of Israel and of the Gentiles. The difference between the 
first and second Passover. Concerning the Hallel at the slaughtering of 
sacrifices, . : IgI-201 


MISHNAS IV., V., VI., VII., VIII, IX. When the paschal sacrifice was 
brought in a state of defilement. Was it prohibited at the Egyptian Passover 


_ to eat leaven on that one night? What R. Jehoshua heard from his teachers 


and could not explain, R. Aqiba explained. When the animal must be left 
to graze. Ifa paschal sacrifice had become mixed with other animals. Ifa 
company has lost their paschal sacrifice. When a paschal offering of two 
individuals has become mixed, . ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ 201-209 


CHAPTER X. 


MISHNA I. When and what must be eaten on the eve of Passover, and 
how many cups of wine must be partaken during the night. R. Simeon b. 
Gamaliel, R. Jehudah, R. Jose were partaking a meal on the eve of Sabbath in 
the city of Achu. Once Rabba b. R. Huna came to the house of the Exilarch. 
Whether one who has heard the Kiddush in the synagogue must repeat it 
at home. If Sabbath had set during the course of a meal at which a company 
were sitting. Concerning the order of the benedictions. Concerning the 
holiday prayers, what must be said. What should be the conclusion of the 
Habdalah. How R. Itz’hak sent his son to Ula, and his answer. Whether 
the honor of the Sabbath is more important than that of the eve preceding 
it. The eight things about the Habdalah prayer. How R. Ashi recited the 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. xi 


great Kiddush when he came to Mehuzza. If one had thoughtlessly eaten 
before Kiddush or Habdalah, may he say these prayers? May the Kiddush 
be made over beer? What is meant by the time of Min’hah, and when King 
Agrippa usually took his meal. Whether women must also drink the four cups. 
What taste and color must the wine have. It is the duty of every man to 
cause his household and his children to rejoice on a festival. About the 
even numbers (see note, p. 229). The seven things R. Aqiba commanded 
his son R. Jehoshua. The five things R. Aqiba, while in prison, commanded 
R. Simeon b., Jochai. The four things our holy Rabbi commanded his chil- 
dren. The three things R. Jose b. R. Jehudah commanded Rabbi. Why 
a man should not go out alone at night. What Rabbi said to Aibo, his son. 
The three things R, Jehoshua b. Levi said in the name of the great men of 
Jerusalem. Three kinds of men shall inherit the world to come. How R. 
Hanina and R. Oshiya made shoes for the prostitutes. The three kinds of 
men whom the Holy One, blessed be He, loves. The three kinds of men 
who do not live a life worth living. The three species who hate others of 
their own kind. The three kinds of beings who love others of their kind. 
Five things which Canaan commanded his children. Six things said of a 
horse, . G ‘ : : : ; : : : é é 210-236 


MIsHNAS ILI., III., 1V., V. When the first cup is poured out. Herbs and 
vegetables are to be brought. The benediction of the bitter herbs. Why 
the bitter herbs should not be placed between unleavened cakes. If a man 
swallowed unleavened bread. When the table on which the food is served 
should be removed. What serves as a remembrance of the apple-trees. 
A second cup of wine is poured out. What Rabbon Gamaliel used to say. 
‘‘ Hallelujah.” How far is the Hallel to be said ? Why a blind man is exempt 
from the recital of the Haggada. With ten different expressions of praise 
the entire Book of Psalms was composed. Who said the Hallel ? What 
the Karaites add to these verses. Is Hallelujah the beginning or the end 
of the chapters? What Rabba discovered that the sages of Pumbaditha 
once proclaimed, . ° : : . . ° 3 : 236-249 


MISHNAS VI., VII., VIII. <A third cup of wine is poured out. Why is 
this called the great Hallel? The laboriousness of a man’s earning his 
daily bread. Why the small Hallel must be recited at the Passover-meal. 
What occurred when Nebuchadnezzar threw Hananiah, Mishaél, and 
Azariah into the furnace. Who said: ‘The truth of the Lord endureth for- 
ever”? What R. Ishmael sent to Rabbi in the name of his father. Who will 
get the cup of benediction. Is it unlawful to conclude the eating of the 
paschal sacrifice with a dessert? Is it obligatory to eat Matzoth during all 
the seven days? If any of the company fall asleep during the meal. About 
the blessing of the paschal and festal offerings. R. Simlai at the redemp- 


_ tion of a first-born son, cies uae!» Swe: al : - 249-259 
APPENDIX A. Explanatory of the first Mishna. APPENDIX B. Sup- 
plementary to the second note, p. 66,* ; ° . : , 259-264 





* We were told that some readers made reference to the synopsis instead of to the 
text. We have therefore, in the synopsis of this tract, omitted all conclusions. We 
will do so, likewise, in the future. 





a 
‘ 
i 
q 
# 
i 








SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


VOLUME VI.—TRACT YOMAH.* 





CHAPTER I. 


MISHNA I. Why the high priest, before the Day of Atonement, and the 
priest who had to perform the ceremonies of the red cow, were removed from 
their houses to different chambers in the Temple, and whence we deduce 
it from the Scriptures. About a substitute of the high-priest. How is it 
known, when one person communicates something to another, that one has 
no right to tell it to a third without permission? How did Moses attire 
Aaron and his children on the days of consecration? Whether the unclean- 
ness of the entire congregation, contracted from a corpse, is not considered, 
or only postponed. How were the two priests sprinkled ?) The number of 
high-priests during the first and second Temples. Why had the first Temple 
fallen? The second Temple, where the occupations were study of the Law, 
religious duties, and charity—why fell it? Which one of the Temples was 
better? Which of the nations are descended from Japheth? Whether the 
gates of the Temple needed Mezuzahs. Of what material was the girdle of 
the high-priest made, and whether it was the same as those of the common 
priests. How was the substitute of the ery rer when the 
high-priest became unfit during the service, . ‘ 1-18 


MISHNA II. What kind of experience did the high- rics have during 
the seven days? What shall he do first—trim the lamps or prepare the in- 
cense ? On what altar and what corner must the blood be sprinkled, 18-22 


MISHNAS III. to V. What the elders of the Beth Din say to him. 
What he is free to eat during the seven days, and what on the eve of the 
Day of Atonement How the priest selects the offerings he chooses. How 
the Beth Din left him to the elders of the priests, and what they made him 
swear. What a high-priest of the Sadducees had done, and what happened 
_ tohim What was done when the high-priest began to slumber. How he 
was occupied, and what was sung to him. How were the ashes cleared 
away every day and on the Day of Atonement? The miracles that occurred in 
_ the Temple. For the crowing of what cock shall one wait before going on 
the road any night? About the heavenly fire at the second Temple, 22-29 





*See introduction to synopsis in Tract Sabbath, Vol. I., p. xxix. ; also note at 
end of synopsis in Vol. V. 
xvii 


xViii SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


CHAPTER II. 


MISHNAS I. to V. Why the priests were selected by lot in the latter days, 
and not before. Why Israel must not be counted. How secure and care- 
less should the man feel that knows that the Lord helps him. What is 
called revenge, and what is called bearing a grudge? The reward of him 
who leaves his injuries unavenged. The accident that befell two priests. 
For performing certain four services a layman deserves capital punishment. 
In what garments were the lots drawn? Were the lots drawn for each ser- 
vice separately? In what order the members of the sacrifice were offered. 

“The daily sacrifices are offered by nine, ten, eleven, twelve priests. How 
so? Aram was offered by eleven, a bull by twenty-four, . ; 30-39 


CHAPTER III. 


MISHNAS I. to IV. What the Superintendent used to say to the priests, 
and why all this was necessary. What is said about the heat during a 
clouded day. Rules for entering the Temple for all. Why and where the 
high-priest bathed five times, and washed his hands and feet ten times, 
How is it known from the Holy Scriptures? How the service was. When 
one meets an opportunity to perform a meritorious act. If he was an aged 
or delicate high-priest, what was then? Concerning the garments of the 
high-priest and their value. What happened to Hillel, to Eliezer b. Har- 
sum, and Joseph the Upright, : : ° : 40-49 


MISHNAS V, to VII. How did the high-priest confess ? and what the 
people responded after him. Which of the officers were on his right and 
which were on his left during the service? What Ben Katin made for the 
Temple, and what his mother Queen Helen made. Concerning the house of 
Garmo, the house of Abtinas, and Hogros b. Levi (the preparer of shew- 
bread, incense, etc.). What one of the members of the house of Abtinas 
related to R. Ishmael. Whence is it derived from the Pentateuch that when 
the names of the just are mentioned they must be blessed, and, vice versa, 
those of the wicked ? When a man sanctifies himself a little here below, he 
is sanctified much above, : : . : ; : . » 49-57 


CHAPTER IV. 


MISHNAS I. to III. Concerning the lots of the two he-goats, how they 
were taken from the boxes, and of what material the boxes were made. What 
happened when Simeon the Upright was high-priest, and after. Simeon the 
Upright told the sages: ‘This year I am going to die.” ‘*How dost thou 
know,?” About the six times the high-priest pronounced God’s name, as it 
is written, during the Day of Atonement. About the tongue of crimson 

wool which was tied to the head of the goat that was to be sent away, and 
for the red cow, etc. Concerning the slaughter of the red cow bya layman. 
What is the reason that a female may not perform the ceremony of sprink- 
ling? The measure of the censer in which the coals for the incense were 
taken, and of what material it was made, and of what color it was on the 
Day of Atonement. There were seven kindsof gold. Whence is it deduced 
that a special fire was made that day, . ‘ ‘ ; oti ade SBHO8 














» 


A ey 


ine. ae 
oh 


Fe ae, glade 


it a ES 


ee ae 


A 





SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. xix 


CHAPTER V. 


MISHNAS I. to VI. About the two handfuls of incense for the Holy of 
Holies, and how it was used. What concerning the incense between the 
middle fingers? When he had filled his hands with incense, and suddenly 
died, how then? If he died while slaughtering, might the blood be sprinkled ? 
The difference of opinion between R. Jose and the sages about the vail of the 
Holy of Holies. The ell of the entrance (to the Holy of Holies) was a matter 
of doubt to the sages. About the ark in the first and second Temples, He 
departed in the same manner as he had come (backwards). Whence do we 
deduce this? The custom of the disciples when departing from their mas- 
ters. The difference of opinion between the sages about the ark : according 
to some it was taken into exile in Babylon, and according to others it was con- 
cealed in its place in the Temple. The world was created from the very 
middle, beginning with the extremities. Everything was created from Zion. 
How many times had he to sprinkle downwards? One and one, one and 
two, etc. What was the law when the bloods of the bullock and the goat got 
mingled ? Whence does he begin (the sprinkling) ? The difference of opin- 
ion of some sages about this matter. Whether one is guilty when using the 
blood for his own purpose. How is the law if he performed the services in 
a wrong order, or in the wrong clothes? Whether the atonement for all 
sins includes the sin of uncleanness in the Temple or not, : 69-86 


CHAPTER VI. 


MISHNAS I, to V._ The equality of the two he-goats. The law if one of 
them dies after the lots were cast. If a substitute was selected, and then 
the first one was found. The expression of the high-priest at his confession 
on the he-goat for Azazel. How the priest delivered the he-goat to its con- 
ductor. The question which R. Eliezer was asked, and his answers. How 
the prominent men of Jerusalem used to accompany the messenger of the 
he-goat. How far was Jerusalem from the Tsuk (the rock of its destina- 
tion)? What was done with the tongue of crimson wool, and its significa- 
tion. About the ten booths between Jerusalem and the Tsuk, and how at 
each booth the messenger was offered meat and drink. Whether the high- 
priest was told when the he-goat reached its destination, or it was made 
known to him by a sign, . . ; ; ; ; ‘ : . 87-97 


CHAPTER VII. 


MISHNAS I. to III. How the high-priest came to read (the Torah), and 
in what clothes, and what section, and who were the persons that passed 
the holy scrolls from one to another until it reached the high-priest. The 
legend of Alexander the Macedonian and the high-priest Simeon the 
Upright. The legends about the tempter to idolatry, how he was caught in 
the time of Ezra and was burned to death. Also the legend of the tempter 
to fornication, how he was kept prisoner, was blinded in both eyes, and then 
liberated. Concerning the Great Assembly which has renewed the appella- 
tions of our God, the great, the mighty, and the terrible, said by Moses, and 
which some of the prophets left out. What the high-priest did after reading 
the Torah. At what time the bullock and the seven sheep of the burnt- 
offerings were offered. How the conductor of the he-goat informs the 
high-priest that he fulfilled his duty. How the Urim and Tumim were 


xx SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


made. How they were inquired of, and to whom. What letters were 
inserted in them. About the three crowns of the altar, the ark, and the 
table, who received them? About the priest who was anointed for war, his 
garments, services, and descendants. How was the ceremony of inquiring 
the Urim and Tumim, and how the priest received the reply. Whence do 
we deduce that the inquiries are made for kings only ? : ; 98-111 


CHAPTER VIII. 


MisHNAI. The afflictions which are obligatory on the Day of Atone- 
ment. What were the afflictions coming from the manna written in Deuter- 
onomy viii. 16? The visage of the Lord is not like that of a man. How 
the manna betrayed all the secrets of the Israelites. What is the meaning 
of the bread of Abirim? What R. Aqiba said, and what R. Ishmael 
answered him. The question why the manna did not descend for the 
Israelites once a year, and its answer. What R. Eliezer the Modeite had 
to say about the manna, which R. Ishmael called a gathering of nonsensical 
words. How is it known that abstaining from washing and anointing is an 
affliction ? What is the law in regard of one being soiled in clay, etc., 
whether he may wash himself? When a man goes to receive his father, 
master, or superior, and has to wade in water reaching to his neck? About 
the spring that issued from the Holy of Holies. Whether a great man is 
permitted to decide the question of a blemish of a firstling, and what R. 
Tzadok b. "Haluqah answered. Whether children are to observe the afflic- 
tions? The quantity of food and beverage spies ih from partaking on 
the Day of Atonement, ; ‘ 112-122 

MISHNAS II. to V. What is the lave cegarding one a he ate and drank 
through forgetfulness ? At what age are children made to fast some hours 
on the Day of Atonement? When a pregnant woman longs for the food 
which she has smelled. When a man is seized with bulimy, what he may 
eat, etc. What happened to some rabbis who were seized with bulimy. 
When a man is bitten by a mad dog. The five things mentioned as symp- 
toms of a dog’s madness. What happened to R. Johanan and the matron 
of Rome. How the Sabbath must be superseded when life is threatened. 
The question put to R. Ishmael, R. Aqiba, and R. Eliezer b. Azariah when 
on the road about the same, and what they answered, 5 ; 122-1 32 

MISHNA VI. For what transgressions the Day of Atonement atones. 
Does the Day of Atonement atone him who says: I will sin and God will 
forgive me? What penitence atones for? What R. Eliezer b. Azariah, 
while in Rome, was asked by R. Mathiah b. Heresh, and what he answered. 
What is called defamation of God. How penitence is great : it reaches the 
throne of His glory. How repentance is great : when an individual repents, 
the whole world is pardoned. Whether one who has confessed his sins on 
one Day of Atonement has also to confess on the next one? The sin of 
Moses is compared to a woman who has eaten fruit on the Sabbatical year, 
and David’s to a woman who has really sinned. He who has provoked his 
neighbor, even by words, must appease him. At what place in the prayer 
should he confess? What the disciples of R. Ishmael taught, . 132-142 

APPENDIX. The letter of a Gentile who has witnessed the ceremo- 
nies of Passover, and the procession of the high-priest to and from the 
Temple, ‘ : y é ‘ ; , : : ‘ F 143-147 


























SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


TRACT HAGIGA. 





CHAPTER I. 


MISHNA I, The law concerning the Holocaust, and who are exempt 
from it. What is the law in the case of one who is half a bondman and half 
free? Johanan b, Broka and R. Elazar b. Hasma have related to their 
master the wonderful lecture of R. Joshua, and what he rejoined. What is 
called a fool? The law about the lame, blind, and sick. An entire series 
of passages from Scripture which the different rabbis wept over when they 
met them in their studies, and the reason of it. What is meant by “evils 
and troubles,” written in Deut. xxxi. 21 ? What will become of us with the 
Minim? For three things the Holy One, blessed be He, weeps every day. 
What happened to Rabbi and R. Hyya while on the road with the blind 
scholar, and his beautiful blessings, The law as to eee and at what 
age a child is exempt from this condition, : . I-13 


MISHNAS II.to V. The law regarding the aie which may or may 
not be brought from the money of the second-tithe, Peace-offerings and 
burnt-offerings of the pilgrims are divided according to their circumstances. 
The different opinions of the rabbis regarding the passage: ‘‘ What is 
crooked cannot be madestraight.” The explanation of Elijah to Ben Hei Hei 
regarding the passage of Is. xlviii, 10. About a scholar who has separated 
himself from the Law. The laws about the dissolving of vows hang in the 
air, and which laws are suspended by a hair, and which of them are the 
essential parts of the Law, : : ; : J : ‘ ; 13-20 


CHAPTER II. 


MISHNA I. Concerning the discussion of illegal unions, the creation, and 
the divine chariot. By ten things the world was created: by wisdom, by 
knowledge, etc. Which was first created, the earth orthe heavens? What 
is meant by the term ‘“‘heavens”? Woe to the creatures which see and 
know not what they see, which stand and know not upon what they stand. 
The names of the seven heavens, and what is contained therein. What an- 

lll 


- 


iv SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


swer did the heavenly voice make to that wicked man when he said: “I will 
ascend above the heights of the clouds,” etc. ? To whom the secrets of the 
Law may be imparted. The king among living creatures is a lion, among 
domestic beasts an ox, among birds an eagle, after which comes man, but the 
Lord takes His place proudly above them all. The thousands of troops who 
minister unto him. The stream of fire which is issued . . . comes from 
before him. Where it comes from. About the nine hundred and seventy- 


four generations which were held back from being created. What are the | 


eighteen curses of Isaiah. Even at the time of the destruction of Jerusalem 
there did not cease from them faithful men. About the four who entered in 
the heavenly garden (Pardes). The legends of A’her concerning R. Meir 
his disciple when he was alive and after his death, and also what R. Johanan 
said and did. About what Rabba bar Shila questioned Elijah, and his an- 
swer. What R. Jehudah questioned Samuel about the world to come, and 
what the latter rejoined. Nimus of Gardiand R. Meir (see note). The six 
things regarding the demons. Every one who gazes upon three things, his 
eyes grow weak, . . ‘ : , : ‘ ‘ ; ‘ 21-38 

MISHNAS II. to IV. The difference of opinions concerning the princes 
and the chiefs of courts, About the law of laying the hand on the offers on 
a festival, Which is the feast in which thou makest proclamation and 
reapest? About the garments of a common person which are defiled by 
pressure for Phatysets;, Se ase es 


CHAPTER III. 


MISHNAS I. to IX. All of them treat about the details of the rigorous 
rules of heave-offerings, and vice versa, The conditions in Judah and in Gali- 
lee as to which of the inhabitants are trusted and which are not. About the 
salamander and the fire of Gehenna, and that the fire of Gehenna will not 
affect the sinners of Israel, who are full of merit as a pomegranate is full of 


seed, x F : : ; ; A : 4 é : ; 44-54 


























SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


VOLUME VII.—TRACT BETZAH.* 





CHAPTER I. 


MISHNA I, Why a new-born thing on a festival must not be used on the 
same day. The different opinions for the reason of it. How is the case 
with the same on the two festival days which are kept in exile only but not 
in Palestine ? Howis the case when a Sabbath falls on one of the two days 
of the exile festivals? And how is the law of the same on the two days of 
New Year, which are kept in Palestine also—are they considered as 
one sacredness or two? About a burial on festivals and New Year. An 
animal or fowl whose blood must be covered when slaughtered, in which 
case they may be slaughtered on a festival. And how is it with a cross 
which is doubtful, if it is considered a wild or a domestic animal. The 
ordinance of Rabban Johanan b. Zakkai, . , P ; I-15 

MISHNAS II. to VIII. Concerning the preparing of doves of the cots 
for the festival, and their removal from one cot to another. The shutters of 
shops, may they be removed? If birds have removed from their prepared 
place? If one has prepared black pigeons and finds white ones, or more 
or less than he has prepared previously. Which utensils are allowed to 
be used for the purpose they were made, and for other purposes. If the 
tallow of the slaughtered on the festival may be salted. The three things 
the finishing of which is allowed. What it is allowed to carry on public 
ground. If it is lawful to give to the priest the first dough on the festival. 
The necessary change in laboring from the week-days, how shall it be 
done? . F , ; : ‘ ‘ , ; : F ‘ 15-24 

MISHNAS IX. to XII. If spices may be pounded on a festival. How 
about Ptisana? How to pick pulse on a festival. The custom of the house 
of Rabban Gamaliel in such cases. How about sending as presents on a 
festival, shoes, sandals, phylacteries, etc., . ; : . - 24-27 





* See Introduction to Synopsis in Tract Sabbath, Vol. I., p. xxix; also note at 
end of Synopsis in Vol. V. 


xii SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


CHAPTER II. 


MisHNaAS I, to III. Of what kind of eatables the cooking Erub may be 
prepared. How it is if one has forgotten to make it, and how it is with him 
who has not made it intentionally. About the purification of vessels on the 
festival. About bringing peace, vow, and voluntary offerings on the festi- 
val. About the four hundred Zuz which a sick person ordered to give to a 
certain man, that he should marry his daughter, and the latter refused. The 
discussion of the schools of Shammai and Hillel about laying the hands on 
the offerings on the festival, .  . ; 28-40 


MISHNAS IV. to VII. The three things which R. Gamaliel decided as 
the school of Shammai. Is it lawful to paint the eyes on a festival? (See 
also Appendix on page 45.) About baking thick loaves. How about 
putting spice on live coals. The three things which R. Elazar b. Azariah 
permitted, and the other sages prohibited. The laws about a pepper hand- 
mill and a child’s carriage, : ; : ; ; . ; ; 40-45 


CHAPTER III. 


MISHNAS I. to IV. The contradiction between the Tosephta and the 
Mishna concerning beasts and fowls. Why acertainjbird is called ‘‘ Durur.” 
Why R. Gamaliel did not accept the fish which a Gentile brought him as a 
present. If the beasts which are in a garden must be prepared previously. 
In what case a man may be carried ina chair. Why R. Na’hman allowed 
his Yalta to be carried. If it is lawful to examine the blemish of a first-born 
animal, and how is the case if the animal is born with a blemish? About 
the Amora who was erratic in his teachings (see also footnote). Does the 
law of Muktzah exist for the halfofa Sabbath?  . : : : 46-54 


MISHNAS V. to X. How to buy an animal for the festival. How to buy 
meat from the butcher and things from the grocery without naming a price. 
Is it allowed to measure beverages on the festival by the seller ? and what 
shall be done to satisfy both the buyer and the seller, About the three hun- 
dred pitchers of wine, and the same number of oil, which were gathered 
from the froth, and from the vessels after emptying, which were brought 
to the treasurer of charity, and his answer. How to feed the animals, 
when measuring is needed. How the wives of R. Joseph and R. Ashi sifted 
their flour on the festival, and of the approval and disapproval of their 
husbands, : aa ae Thy ° ‘ , : é ‘ ‘ 54-59 


CHAPTER IV. 


MIsHNAS I, to VI. How to carry jars of wine from one place to another, 
and from what stacks fuel may be taken. If some may be taken from a 
ruined booth. Also from what kind of beams wood may be cut for the fes- 
tival. If it is permitted to make a hole in a tent filled with fruit. Howit is 
about making a hole in clay for the purpose of using it foralamp. The six 
things which Bar Qappara taught about a wick. There are three men 


whose life is not called life, . R . : : 3 5 5 60-64 











a 











SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. xiii 


MISHNAS VII. to IX. How'to roast salted fish. Is it allowed to smear 
an oven with clay? The difference of opinion between the Amoraim about 
Ffizra. If broken vessels may be used for fuel. Branches of spice-trees to 
enjoy the odor, whether they may be handled. And howto grind spices. 
How R. Jehudah used to break twigs off from spice-trees, to supply to his 
guests. If it is allowed to make heaps of fuel in the yard. Ovens or hearths 
standing in the yard, are they considered as vessels? If the hair of an 
animal’s feet may be removed by fire. If one wishes to partake of the 
fruit of a Sabbatical year, what must he previously do? In which case 
may the same be used if it is doubtful whether the heave-offering was sep- 
arated? , ‘ ‘ ; ° : : : : : ; ; 64-69 


CHAPTER V. 


MISHNAS I. to VI. The difference between Sabbath and a Festival, in 
throwing and covering fruit. About removing fruit from one roof to another. 
The things which are prohibited on account of Sh’buth (Sabbath-rest—rab- 
binically), The things which are prohibited as optional. The legal limit 
within which cattle and utensils may be brought for the use of the festival. 
About a barrel of wine and an animal which were bought in partnership by 
two men from different places, what shall be done, and the different law 
about these two. What R. Abba prayed when he intended to go to 
Palestine, and what he said after he reached there. The five things which 
have been taught about burning coals. The Babylonian travellers. Fruit 
which is deposited in another’s house, who is to be considered the owner of 
same concerning the carrying of it. The advice to water an animal before 
slaughtering it, : ‘ : : ‘ . ‘ ‘ . , 70-78 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


VOLUME VII.—TRACT SUCCAH.* 





CHAPTER I. 


MISHNA I. About the legal height and width of the booth which is to © 
be used during the seven days of Tabernacles. What was to be done when 
it was higher or lower than the prescribed size? If one has placed four 
poles and roofed them, how is the law? The different opinions of R. Jacob 
and the sages on this point. Whence is deduced from biblical passages the 
size prescribed by the sages? Did the Shekhina descend from heaven to 
earth; and also Moses and Elijah, did they ascend to heaven, or not? And 
in the latter case, how are to be explained the passages which state that 
they did? The ells which are mentioned in the Scriptures, how many spans 
did they contain? When there is a difference in the biblical passages 
between the Massorah (Z.e., how they are written) and the reading of it, 
what must be considered for practice? Howshall the Succah be consid- 
ered—as a temporary or permanent dwelling? The booths of potters or 
watchmen, can they be used fora legal Succah? . : ; ‘ I-10 

MISHNAS II. to VIII. How about an old Succah? What is called an 
old Succah ? How about a Succah under a tree, or if a cloth was spread 
over the roof ofthe Succah? If one Succah was over another? What kind 
of material must be used for the roof of the Succah ? How to beautify the 
religious duties for the sake of the Lord, and from what passage of the 
Scriptures this is deduced. If bundles of straw, wood, or twigs may be used 
for the roof of the Succah. The two things which R. Jacob heard from R. 
Johanan and the three things which Rabha bar bar Hana has heard in the 
name of the same, and they could not imagine the real meaning of them, and 
how the latter Amoraim tried to find it out. What Hana bar Abba, and R. 
Hisda in the name of Rabina bar Shila, and Meremar said and lectured 
about the roofing of the Succah. How it is when one wants to cover the 





* See Introduction to Synopsis in Tract Sabbath, Vol. I., p. xxix. ; also note at 
end of Synopsis in Vol. V. 

















vi SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


Succah with boards, the size of same, and how they are to be laid. What is 
to be done if small rafters, over which is no ceiling, are to be used for a 
booth. The difference of opinion between the schools of Shammai and 
Hillel, and R. Jehudah and R. Meir, 10-I9 


MISHNAS IX. to XIII. If one likes to roof his booth with iron spits. If 
one likes to suspend textile walls from the roof downwards. If the roof was 
three spans distant from the walls. How is the case with a court sur- 
rounded by balconies? The law ofa crooked wall. If one likes to make a 
Succah in the form of a cone. About a reed mat made for sleeping on, 
whether a Succah can be covered with it; the size of it. A mat made of 
bark or papyrus, if large, may be used for a cover, ; ‘ : 19-25 


CHAPTER II. 


MISHNAS I. to VII. How is it when one sleeps under a bed in the 
booth? About Tabbi, the slave of Rabban Gamaliel, who was a scholar. 
If one likes to support the Succah with a bedstead. If a Succah is covered 
thinly, what must be more—the sunshine or the shadow? If one constructs 
a Succah on top of a wagon, or on board of a vessel. What happened to 
Rabban Gamaliel and R. Aqiba when they were on board of a vessel, and 
the latter made there a Succah. Whether a Succah can be made on the 
back of a camel. Cana living animal be used as a wall to the Succah? 
How is it with an elephant—a living or dead one? How is the law about a 
partition not made by human hands, if it can be considered legally as a wall 
to the Succah? If one makes a Succah between trees which form side-walls. 


. How is it about the delegates for religious purposes—are they obliged to or 


exempted from the duty of the Succah? How is it with a mourner, with a 
bridegroom and his attendants, concerning the duty of the Succah? How 
is it with those who are on the road in the day-time, and those who are on 
the road in the night-time only. How is it with the watchman of a tower, 
or the gardens? How is it with the sick? How is it about those who are 
afflicted? What Rabban Johanan b. Zakkai did when two dates were 
brought to him to taste out of the Succah, and Rabban Gamaliel when a jar 
of water was brought to him when he was out of the Succah; and what 
R. Zadok did when food less than the size of an egg was brought to him out 
of the Succah, ; : : : : : : ‘ P ‘ 26-33 


MISHNAS VIII. to X. How many meals must be eaten in the Succah 
during the seven days? The difference of opinion between R. Eliezer and 
the sages on that point. How they both deduce it from the passages of the 
Scriptures. Ifone makes amends with extra dishes in the Succah, has he done 
his duty ? The manager of the house of Agrippa the king asked R. Eliezer 
about his two Succahs and his two wives, which he had in two different: cities 
in Palestine, and what the latter answered. If it is allowed to build a Succah 
in the intermediate days, and what is to be done when a Succah becomes 
ruined during the seven days. Can one fulfil his duties in his neighbor’s Suc- 
cah, or must each one have his own Succah ? What R. Eliezer said to R. [lai 
when he came to visit him in the city of Lud. What happened to R. Eliezer 
when he took his rest in the booth of R. Johanan bar Ilai in the city of Kisri. 
There was not one tribe in Israel from which a judge did not descend (see 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. vii 


the explanation of it, p. 35, footnote). What happened to the same when he 
took his rest in Upper Galilea, and was asked thirty Halakhas about the law 
of the Succah. What was said of Rabban Johanan b. Zakkai the Master of 
R. Eliezer, of all his habits and customs, and that R. Eliezer his disciple 
conducted himself similarly. About the eighty disciples of Hillel the Elder. 
Who was the greatest of all, and who the least, and what was said about the 
latter. What the Elders of the schools of Shammai and Hillel said when 
they visited R. Johanan b. Hahoronith, and found him sitting with his head 
and the greater part of his body in the booth, and the table was in the house. 
How is it with women, slaves, and minors—are they exempt from the Succah ? 
What shall be the age of a minor to be considered so? What Shammai 
the Elder did when his daughter-in-law gave birth to a son during the 
Feast of Tabernacles. How the Succah shall be used during the seven days 
of the festival as a regular domicile, and the house as an occasional abode. 
How is it when it rains? Where the finest vessels and utensils must be 
kept during the time of Tabernacles, and which of the inferior of them are 
allowed to be kept in the Succah. What R. Joseph did when a wind blew 
the chips of the covering into the dish, when he was sitting in the Succah, 
and what Abayi asked him. What an eclipse of the sun means to the whole 
world. When the sun and the moon are eclipsed, it is an ill omen to the 
enemies of Israel, so maintains R. Meir. On account of four things the 
sun is eclipsed. For four things the property of householders becomes 
annihilated, . s ‘ ' . : : : : ’ ; 33-41 


CHAPTER III. 


MISHNAS I. to III. The law about the palm branch, the size of it, if it 
was acquired by test or dried, or if it was from a grove. What R. Huna 
said to the sellers of myrtles—what they shall do when they buy myrtles of 
Gentiles. How is the law if a public street is roofed for the purpose of a 
Succah. What R. Na’hman said to the sages when an old woman com- 
plained that the exilarch and all the sages of the house of the exilarch are 
sitting in a robbed Succah. Ifa citron cannot be found, can it be replaced 
by a lemon or not? If the point of the citron was broken off. If the leaves 
of the palm branch were torn off. How the law is if the “twins” of the 
Lulab are divided. The prescribed size of a Lulab anda myrtle. How 
many boughs of myrtle? How the law is if a bough of a myrtle has more 
berries than leaves. If it was a 7zaphizapha. If a greater number of 
leaves have dropped off. If the tip has been broken off. Ifa Lulab must be 
tied up, and how it shall be tied together with the myrtle and the willow. 
Of what places must a willow be taken. The difference of opinion between 
R. Ishmael, R. Tarphon, and R. Aqiba about the prescribed sizes of the 
Lulab, myrtle, willow, and citron, What Samuel said to the sellers of 
myrtles, . ‘ 3 : : ‘ £ P ; ; ¢ 4 42-50 

MISHNAS IV. to VII. How is it with a citron which was taken off a tree 
less than three years old? What, if it was of Demai? What is the mini- 
mum size of a small citron and the maximum of a large one? How is the 
law if a citron has been peeled and gets the color of a red date? Ifit hasa 
hole. How is an unripe citron? What makes a citron unbeautiful? The 
Lulab which must be tied with its own kind only, according to R. Jehudah, 


Se ee 





— 




















viii SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


what is to be called its own kind? The objection of R. Meir, who relates 
that the inhabitants of Jerusalem tied a Lulab with gold lace, and what the 
sages answered to this. What Rabba said to the men who tied the Hosha- 
noth for the exilarch. How to prevent an intervention between the Lulab 
and the other things which are to be tied with it. The myrtle bough used 
for religious duties—may it be smelled, or not? And how is it with the 
citron? With what hands the Lulab and the citron must be handled. Why 
do we pronounce the benediction on the Lulab only? When must the 
Lulab be shaken? How is it to be.shaken? What is the law if one is on 
the road and has no Lulab? When is Hallel to be read? Who must read 
it? From what chapters of the Psalms the Hallel is said. What the reader 
shall say, and what the congregation shall answer in the saying of Hallel. 
What verses are to be repeated in Hallel, . : : ; ; 50-56 


MISHNAS VIII. to XI. What is the law when one buys a Lulab from a 
common man in the Sabbatical year. Is a citron equal to a tree in all 
respects? Does the fruit of the Sabbatical year become exchanged, if it 
is done in the manner of buying and selling ? The Sabbatical year holds 
the money exchanged for its fruits. May both the fruit of Sabbatical year 
and of second tithe be exchanged for wild game, cattle, and fowl, when they 
are alive or slaughtered ? How the Lulab was used in the second Temple, 
and in the country at that time, and what R. Johanan b., Zakkai has ordained 
after its destruction. When the first day of Tabernacles falls on a Sabbath. 
What happened to Rabban Gamaliel, R. Elazar b. Azariah, and R. Aqiba 
when the former bought a citron for a thousand Zuz, and what he did with 
it. What R. Elazar b. Zadok relates how the custom of the men of Jerusa- 
lem was. When the Lulab may be put in water, whén water may be added, 
and when it must be changed. At what age a minor has to shake the 
Lulab, to perform the duties of Tzitzith, Tefilin, and his father to teach him 
the Torah, and to read with him the Shema, . : ; : ; 56-61 


CHAPTER IV. 


MISHNA I. The Lulab and willow to surround the altar were sometimes 
used on six days, and sometimes on seven days of the festival. The Hallel 
and the eating of peace-offerings took place on eight days, and the pipes were 
played on sometimes five, sometimes six days. In which case was the Lulab 
used seven days? Whence do we deduce this from the Scriptures? Why 
do we use the Lulab seven days in memory of the Temple, and not the wil- 
low? Do the Lulab and the willow violate the Sabbath or not? Can one 
fulfil the ceremony of the willow with that which is tied to the Lulab? May 
a man go more than ten Parsaoth on theeve of Sabbath? . d 62-66 


MISHNAS II. to IV. How was the commandment to take the willow ful- 
filled in Jerusalem? What was said when they went around the altar with 
the willow? The saying of R. Simeon b. Jochai, that he could exempt the 
whole world from the day of judgment, since he was born till that time, etc. 
Must the benediction on the Lulab be pronounced all the seven days, or on 
the first day only ? Shall the benediction of the time be pronounced with the 
Lulab and the Succah, and when? Come and see: The usages of the Holy 
One, blessed be He, are not as the usages of human beings, Can the citron 
be eaten during the seven days, or on the eighth day only? The difference 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. ix 


of opinion between the Tanaim and Amoraim, if the ceremony of the willow 
is based upon a tradition of the prophets, or it is only a custom of theirs. 
Must the benediction of the time be pronounced on the eighth day of the 
Tabernacles, which is a separate holiday ? The Hallel and the enjoying of 
the peace-offerings were for eight days. How so? How was the pouring out 
of the water ? Why the people called out to him who poured out the water: 


“Raise thy hand.” Why were the holes of the two silver basins of which 


the wine and water were poured out not equal in size? The saying of R. 
Elazar, that the doing of charity is greater than all the sacrifices. Charity 
is rewarded only in accordance with the kindness with which it is done. 
In three things is the bestowing of favors greater than charity, . 66-75 


CHAPTER V. 


MiIsHNAS I. and II. The difference of opinion about the music of the 
sacrifices, if it was instrumental or vocal. How pious and distinguished 
men danced before the people with lighted flambeaux in their hands, and 
what they said. After reaching the gate they turned westward ; what they 
said about their ancestors and themselves. The beauty of the Temple 
which was rebuilt by Herod the Great, and the advice which the sages gave 
to him. The beauty of the diuplustin (double portico) of Alexandria in 
Egypt, all that it contained, the seventy-one golden chairs for the Sanhedrin, 
and how all this was destroyed by Alexander of Macedonia. The separate 
places for males and females in the Temple, and how they were changed 
in order to prevent levity. About the lamentation of the death of Messiah 
ben Joseph, and the death of the evil angel. The tradition of the two 
Messiahs, ben Joseph and ben David, and the different explanations of the 
verse Zechariah, vii. 10, according to the believers of the old tradition and 
the believers of the Messiahship of Christ. About the evil angel—how he 
appears in the beginning and how he grows in the nature of human beings. 
What the Messiah ben David will ask of the Lord. The seven names of 
the evil angel. Thé evil angel is hidden in man’s heart. How he tempts 
scholars more than any one else. How Abayi watched a man and a woman 
who went on the road. What one shall do when the hideousness has 
attacked him. The three verses of the Scriptures which clear Israel on the 
judgment day. Who are meant by the four carpenters mentioned in 
Zechariah, ii. 3? Who are the seven shepherds and the eight anointed men 
mentioned in Micah, v. 4? The four lads who held jars of oil containing 120 
lugs. Was it in all 120 lugs, or did each jar contain so much? Who said: 
Well be to our youth which does not disgrace our age? and who said vice 
versa? What Hillel the Elder said when he was engaged in the enjoy- 
ment of the pouring of the water. For what purpose the fifteen songs of 
degrees were said by David. What is the meaning of ‘we belong to God” 
and “ we raise our eyes to God”? . : : : : . ; 76-85 

MISHNAS III. to VI. How many times was the trumpet blown in the 
Temple every day, and how many on the festivals ? The different opinions 
of the Tanaim about this point. When was the maximum of forty-eight 
times blown? For what purpose were the seventy bullocks offered on the 
seven days of the Feast of Tabernacles? And for what purpose was the 
one bullock offered [Numb. xxix. 36]? Three times in the year all the 























x SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


twenty-four orders of priests were alike entitled to share the pieces of offer- 
ings of the festival, and in the shewbread, for what purpose? Whence do 
we deduce that all the orders of priests had equal shares in the offerings 
that were said to be sacrificed on the festivals? Ifa festival falls before or 
after a Sabbath, all the twenty-four orders share alike in the shewbread. 
What is meant by before or after ? About the order of Bilgah, when Mi- 
riam his daughter becomes an apostate, and what she said when the enemy 
entered the sanctuary, and what was done to the whole order, . 85-92 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


OF 


VOLUME VII.—TRACT MOED KATAN.* 





CHAPTER I, 


MISHNAS I. to III. How dry and low-land may be irrigated from newly 
sprung fountain and rain water, on the middle days. Is grubbing up olive- 
trees permitted during the Sabbatical year? Is one court permitted to 
overrule the decision of another? Where is it deduced from the Scriptures 
that tombs must be marked? Messengers on account of Kilaim, when 
and for what reason they were sent. The irrigating of plants and yard- 
gardens. How to oe a gap in a fence, in the middle days and the Sabbati- 
Cal ‘year; ~ ‘ : : : I-9 

MISHNAS IV. to IX. How ae nr had to = the inspection of 
plagues. If itis allowed to gather the bones of parents in the minor festivals. 
If a funeral oration may be held thirty days before the festival. About digging 
and preparing graves in the minor festivals. If one may espouse a wife in 
those days. . The explanation of I Kings viii. 66, and the legend of Solomon 
and the gates. The allegorical blessings of Jonathan and Jehudah the dis- 
ciples of Ben Jo’hi to his son, and their interpretation by his father. How 
Rabh interpreted the advice of Ben Halafta to his own son as a blessing 
from the Scripture. The especial labors which may and may not be done on 
the middle days, and also the difference between a layman and a specialist 
on this subject, - : 5 : ‘ : : : : : - 9-18 


CHAPTER II. 


MisuHNaAs I. to VI. Which labors may be done in the usual manner and 
which must be changed in their manner. If the property of one was fined 
by the court for violating the minor feasts, and he dies, is it in force for his 
heirs? And howit shall be done inthe buying and selling places, . 19-24 


CHAPTER III. 


MISHNA I. Who may trim their hair. If mourning and the burden of ban 
must be observed on the festival and middle days. Whence do we deduce 





* See footnote in Tract Succah. 





ne 











iv SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


that the court has power to summon, to appoint a time, and to postpone 
trials and to excommunicate? For what cases one may be put under the 
ban, and what is the fixed time for rebuke, ban, and excommunication. — 
What happened to a young scholar whom R. Jehudah put under the ban. 
How the maid-servant of Rabbi put one under the ban for beating his grown- 
up son, and what the rabbis said to that. .What Mar Zutra the Pious did 
when a young scholar was delinquent, . ’ : : ; - 25-34 


MISHNAS II, to VII. What documents are allowed to be written. About 
bonds and debts. About Phylacteries, etc. Do the days of the festival post- 
pone the mourning or abolish? The difference in this subject between 
Sabbath and a festival, and as to a difference also between the festivals them- 
selves, and which of them enter into computation. Ifthe garments are to be 
rent for certain relatives, and how to do it on the minor feasts. What 
happened to an Ishmaelitish merchant when the coffins of Rabba and Ham- 
nuna passed by. The Elegy of a disciple on them. The funeral oration on 
Rabina. The answer of Bar Kipuk to the question of R. Ashi: What oration 
he would make on the day of his death ; the oration on a child which died at 
birth ; the oration on R. Zera when he has departed in Palestine—a// in 
verse. To whom it must be said: ‘Go in peace,” and to whom, ‘‘Go with 
peace,” ! : ‘ : . . : : . : ; CR aa 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


VOLUME VIII.—TRACT TAANITH.* 





CHAPTER I. 


MISHNA I. The difference of opinion about the mention of the power of 
rain in the prayer on the days of Tabernacles. Whence do we know that 
mention must be made. Who of the readers shall mention it on the feast of 
Passover. Must one repeat his prayerif he made no mention? Three men 
prayed to God for things that were not suitable. The congregation of Israel 
also prayed for animproper thing, . : ; : ; ‘ : 1-7 

MISHNAII. Till what time is the rain to be prayed for. What was eaten 
during the seven years of famine [II Kings, viii.] Jacob, our father, never 
died. When begin the rain fructifications ? The knowledge of the Law is 
an elixir of life. Why the words of the Law are compared to water, wine, 
and milk. To what the day of rain is equal in importance. The different 
explanations of the interpretation of the passage Eccles. x. 10. Come and 
see how great are the men who have faith (see footnote, pp. 18, 19). When 
there are famine and pestilence what shall be prayed for? The explanation 
of the passage ‘thou shalt truly tithe.” When Aaron died the pillar of 
cloud left, etc. What happened to the disciples of Rabha when he died ? 
About the measurements of the Gehenna and the Garden of Eden, . 7-24 


MISHNAS III. to V. From what time in fall must rain be prayed and 
fasted for if it has not descended ? The punishment of one who leaves the 
_ congregation when the latter is in trouble, in order to avoid it. What means 

the ‘“‘God of truth.” Who is called a sinner when he fasteth? Is a fast of 

hours considered? Until what time may food be partaken of on the day 

preceding the fast? If fast-days pass without answer, what shall be done ? 

What would the elders do when they assembled in the morning? The query 

to Rabbi by the inhabitants of Nineveh. Not every one has a right to rend 

his clothes (when praying), . ; ; : ; ; , ‘ 24-35 
CHAPTER II. 

MISHNA I. What is the order of procedure on the fast-days ? What has 
happened to Halaphta and Hanina b. Teradion? About the days that are 
mentioned in the ‘Roll of Fasts.” On what days of the week the order of 
fasts may begin. Why do they congregate in an open place? Why are 
ashes strewn on the heads of all? Who has a right to address the congre- 





* See introduction to synopsis in Tract Sabbath, Vol. I., p. xxix,; also note at end 
of synopsis in Vol. V. 


Se ee ee 








Se ee 
— 








xiv SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


gation? What the reader has to say to each benediction. The strife carried 
on between the Pharisees and Bathusees concerning the continual daily 
offering (see footnote, p. 44). Has one to complete his fast if rain de- 
scends? , 36-46 


CHAPTER III. 


MISHNA I. On what fast-days an alarm must be sounded. What hap- 
pened to Honi Hama’gel and what message Simeon b. Shetah sent to him. 
What is considered a plague causing death ? What price must grain reach 
in order to arrange a fast? The legend of Nakdimon b. Gurion when he 
borrowed water from a heathen. For the sake of Moses, Joshua, and Nakdi- 
mon the sun shone. The good things that R. Huna did, and what Rabha 
had to say to this. Concerning the sickness of Shaibatha. The legend of 
Hilpha and Johanan when they studied together, and what they heard 
of the angels. What happened to Na’hum of Gimzo, and the legend about 
it. The men who have a share in the world to come, who were pointed out 
by Elijah (the prophet) to Beroka of Huzaah. An alarm should be sounded 
over attacks of wild beasts, etc. For a pest analarmshould be sounded even 
ona Sabbath. What is meant by the passage Levit. xxvi. 4. The legend about 
Honi Hama’gel at length, and how he slept seventy years. The legend 
about Abba Helkyah, his grandson, and also of Hanan the Hidden, who was 
a grandson of his daughter, How the Amoraim of Palestine prayed for rain 
and how those of Babylon did. What happened to Oshiya, the youngest 
of the college, with the Nasi when he had ordered a fast-day. The merits of 
the men who have prayed for rain in the presence of Rabbi and Rabh (at 
different places) and were answered at once. Legends about different 
Amoraim who have prayed for rain that were or were not answered. The 
legend at length of Hanina b. Dosa, his wife, etc. How much rain should 
fall in order that the congregation should stop fasting? What happened 
with Samuel the Little when he ordered a fast, : - ; : 46-77 


CHAPTER IV. 


MISHNA I. The periods of the year at which the priests shall raise their 
hands for prayer. When the standing men used to fast. The days when Hal- 
lel was sung. The five calamities that happened on the seventeenth of Tamuz 
and those on the ninth of Ab. What is prohibited during the week of the 
ninth of Ab. The festivals of the fifteenth of Ab and the Day of Atone- 
ment. The twenty-four watches which were in the land of Israel. How 
many watches were established by Moses, and how many by David. What. 
did the men of the watches pray for? Who were the Gonebe Eli and Kotze 
Ketzioth (see note, p. 84)? Who were the family of Pa’hath Moab ben Jehudah, 
etc.? Whence do we know that the five calamities have happened on the 
seventeenth of Tamuz? Whence do we know that the second Temple was 
also burned on the ninth of Ab? Also that the city of Bethar was con- 
quered on that day ? What is allowed to eat on the afternoon of the eve of 
the ninth of Ab? Which ordinance of mourning is applicable to the ninth 
of Ab? The custom of Jehudah bar Ilai on the night preceding the ninth 
of Ab. What occurrence makes the fifteenth of Ab a festival? What 
Elazar has to say about the ring of righteousness that the Holy One, blessed 
be He, will make in the future in the Garden of Eden, . 2 ; 78-92 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


VOLUME VIII.—TRACT MEGILLA. 





CHAPTER I. 


MISHNAS I. and II. The Megilla is to be read from the eleventh till the 
fifteenth of Adar. Howso? Which cities are considered walled since the 
time of Joshua b. Nun. By whom was made the Targum on the Pentateuch 
and by whom that of the Prophets. What the Heavenly voice said then 
and how the ground of Palestine trembled. Who were the men who were 
with Daniel [Daniel, x. 7] ? Who are obliged to hear the reading of the 
Megilla ? Which has the preference, the study of the Law or the reading of the 
Megilla? Are women obliged to hear the Megilla read? What must be 
considered a large town ? What Rabbi used to do on Purim, the seventeenth 
of Tamuz, and how he has abolished the fast on the ninth of Ab. The ex- 
planation of the passage Zechar. ix. 7, and also the explanation of the pas- 
sage Ps. cxl. 9. Also what is to be inferred from Habakkuk, i. 13, . I-14 


MISHNA III. When the Megilla was read in the first Adar and after- 
wards the year was declared intercalary. The request that Esther sent to 
the sages. The Bookof Esther was dictated by the Holy Spirit. Whence 
is this deduced? The obligation of sending portions to friends and to give 
charity to the poor. In what characters and language the Megilla must be 
written? When is the festival meal on Purim to be eaten? . ; 14-17 


MISHNAS IV. and V. Enumerate the difference of a number of things 
between one another, among them the difference of the Greek language and 
others, and why it has preference over all others except Hebrew. The tradi- 
tion of the men of the Great Assembly about the passages beginning with 
the word ‘“ Vahi” (and it came to pass). What a bride who is chaste in the 
house of her husband’s parents deserves. The enumeration of the passages 
with which the different Amoraim began their lectures on the Book of Esther. 
The analysis of the name ‘“‘ Ahasuerus,” and what the different sages had to 
say about it. He was a self-made king. Is it to his credit or to his dis- 
credit? The three kings that reigned over the whole world. Why was 
‘Cyrus called the anointed of God? Why does the Bible sometimes name 
Persia before Media and sometimes vice versa? By what sins did the Is- 
raelites incur the decree of Haman in that age? Who was Memuchan? 
Why was Mordecai called Benjamite and Judean? The interpretation of 
the names mentioned in the Chronicles without any explanation. Why did 


= A 


Leis see 











—— 





SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. Vv 


Esther not reveal her nationality? The reward for the modesty of Rachel, of 
Saul, and of Esther. How the Lord makes wroth the masters of their servants 
and the servants of their masters in order to do good to the upright. The 
explanation of the calamities of Haman. The parable of Ahasuerus and 
Haman. The explanation of the passage, ‘‘ There is not any rock like our 
God.” The seven prophetesses in Israel. Pride does not become women. 
Who was Hathach? Why did Esther invite Haman to the feast, and what 


’ Elijah, the prophet, said about this to Abahu? Why Israel resembles earth 


and why stars? All the lecturing in detail about the conversation which 
Esther had with Ahasuerus before the hanging of Haman. Why is Mor- 
decai mentioned in Ezra, ii. 2, the fifth, and in Nehemiah, vii. 7, the 
sixth ? ‘ : : : : : : ‘ f ; ‘ 17-44 


CHAPTER. II. 


MISHNAS I. and II. Whence do we deduce that anyone that reads the 
Megilla in an irregular manner does not fulfil his duty, that the Patriarchs 
must be mentioned in the prayer, that the Megilla must not be read by 
heart, and that the name of the Lord must not be blessed any more after the 
pronunciation of the eighteen benedictions? How is it known that God 
called Jacob “El”? Regulations concerning the reading from Assyrian 
characters, from writing in ink, and not to make long pauses, If the inhab- 
itants of an open town had gone to a walled town. If one reads the Megilla 
which is bound together with other books. How the schoolmen repudiated 
the statement of an Halakha in the name of Johanan, . . d 45-54 


MISHNAS III. to V. Who is qualified to read the Megilla ? Which acts 
may not be done before sunrise on the day on which they are obligatory, 
and which may be done during the whole of the day on which they are obliga- 


tory, . . : : i 2 : F ; ‘ : ; < 54-56 


CHAPTER III. 


MISHNAS I. to VI. Is the Megilla to be read sitting or standing ? What 
benediction must be pronounced before and after the reading? Regulations 
concerning the men to be called to read the Holy Scrolls in the prayer houses 
on the prescribed days, and their number on each day. What is to be done 
when men come into the synagogue after the prayer is finished ? What is 
the benediction for mourners? The number of men that must be present 
when the name of God is mentioned in a benediction. How many verses 
must each read who is called to read in the Holy Scrolls? Who is allowed 
to act as minister? May a priest whose hands are deformed raise his hands 
to bless the congregation? Ifone say he will not minister at reading desk 
in colored clothes. If one say in his prayer, ‘‘ The good shall bless Thee” 
(see note, p. 67). Which portions of the Torah must be read and explained, 
and which are to be read without explanation? . ; ! : 57-69 


CHAPTER IV. 


MisHNAs I. to III. Regulations concerning the investment of the proceeds 
of a sale of sacred public property. May one prayer house be exchanged for 
another? Which articles used in a religious duty may be cast away, and 


vi SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


which must be hidden? What disposition of the Holy Scrolls when rotten ? 
May old Holy Scrolls be sold? When are Holy Scrolls allowed to be sold ? 
Rules of contribution to charity by a visitor of a town. May sacred public. 
property be sold to private individuals? The replies of many sages when 
they were questioned for the reason of their longevity. What is forbidden 
to be done in a prayer house, and may a man go in there for the purpose of 
protecting himself against rain or sunshine? What is meant by the saying 
of the Mishna: ‘‘Who uses the crown is lost”? Come and see how the 
Israelites are beloved before the Holy One, etc. The Heavenly voice about 
the Mount Sinai, ; ; : a ‘ ; 3 70-81 

MISHNAS IV. and V. Treat about the portions of the Bible which are to 
be read on the Sabbaths beginning two weeks before Purim up to Passover, 
on each day of the Passover, and on each day of the other festivals, and the 
different opinions about this, . . ; ; tear ; : 81-90. 




















SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


VOLUME VIII.—EBEL RABBATHI. 





CHAPTERS I. to III, One who is in agony of death is regarded as alive 
in all respects. How so? May the inhabitants of a village greet each 
other if a death occurs in their community ? How shall a suicide be buried, 
and who is considered such? Suicide of a minor. The burial of one judi- 
cially executed. That of one separating himself from the congregation, 
and of those stealing the duties. At what age are poor children to be 
lamented, and at what age rich ones? The funeral meal. At what age is 
death considered Kareth (short life)? The days of sickness. The legend 
about the conversation of the Angel of Death with many of the Amo- 
raim, . . : , 5 : . cE : ‘ 2 ; “ I-II 

CHAPTERS IV. and V. Who are considered relatives of the first and 
second degrees? The regulations of an One (a mourner before the burial 
of the dead), and the period of Aninuth (see Commentary, p. 13). Over 
what relatives priests and high-priests may defile themselves. The decision 
of the sages as to the exhumation of a body for the purpose of examination 
as to age, and the reasons therefor. For what purposes the high-priest may 
or may not leave Palestine. Who is considered a Meth-Mitzvah (see Com- 
mentary, p.17),and what shall be done with him, and how a Meth-Mitzvah 
was the incident which caused R. Aqiba to be counted among the wise, 
What work may and what may not be done by a mourner. What must be 
observed during the seven, the thirty days, and during the whole year of 
mourning. The exact periods for weeping, lamenting, not to calender 
clothes, and not to cut the hair, which must not be exceeded. Whence is it 
deduced that mourning lasts for seven days? When one mourning suc- 
ceeds another. The regulations concerning the ban and for how many days 
it shall continue, : : 12-23 


CHAPTERS VI. and VII. Whata mourner may read, what clothes he 
may wash, and if he may or may not wear shoes. When he may leave his 
house, and what seat he may occupy when in the prayer-house. What was 
done with mourners and others having trouble when entering the Temple. 
Ordinances in detail relating to calendering clothes, cutting the hair, etc., 
etc., etc., during the thirty days. What happened to Mar Samuel with his 
brother Pin’has during their mourning. The period after which it is allowed 
to remarry after the death of one’s wife, .. ‘ ? , : 23-30 


iv SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


CHAPTERS VIII, and IX. The different opinions about the canopy that 
is to be made for a dead bridal couple, and what eatables may be destroyed 
in their honor. The execution of Simeon, Ishmael, Aqiba, etc., and the 
lamentation over them by the sages, in detail. The a fortiori conclusion, 
drawn from many biblical passages, how a man must avoid to come in con- 
tact with evil subjects. About what dead relatives must one rend his 
garments, and the rending of garments over scholars, chiefs of a college, etc. 
When the rent may be mended. The size of the rent. If a mourner travels 
from one place to another. The obligation of lowering the couches and 
when they may be placed in proper condition. The saving of the garment 
which was upon the dead, 30-45 


CHAPTERS X. to XII. From the performance of what religious duties a 
mourner is exempt. The funeral meal. The standing in line of the consol- 
ers. What may and what may not be discussed in the presence of a dead 
body. The burial of rich and poor people and that of scholars, and what 
happened to Aqiba when his son died. The difference in the burial and 
lamentation of a man and a woman. The preference of way of a bridal 
procession over that of a funeral, and what happened to King Agrippa. The 
sweeping and the besprinkling of a mourner’s house. A recent and remote 
information. The different societies that were in Jerusalem for attending 
weddings or funerals, etc. The four sages that came to console R. Ishmael 
when his sons died, and what they said. When the consolers are permitted 
to speak consolation. About the burial of the bones of two dead bodies in 
one grave. The saying of R. Eliezer b. Zadok as to what his father com- 
manded him in regard to his burial, and what Abba Saul said in his will to 
his son. When a hearse is used. What Hanina b. Teradion did when his 
son was executed as a robber, . ; : . : - . . 45-57 


CHAPTERS XIII. and XIV. From what religious duties a gatherer of 
bones is exempt. The places in which bones and the Scriptures must be 
placed when being removed. When is it allowed to remove a corpse from 
one grave to another? If it is allowed to bury two corpses, or one corpse and 
bones of another corpse, in one grave. If benefit may be derived from a 
building over a vacant grave or from avacant coffin. How acemetery must 
not be considered vé/ely. If graves may be changed from one family to 
another. Is occupancy (Hazakah) considered with graves? The three 
different kinds of graves. A cemetery which surrounds the city on three 
sides. The seven standings and sittings after the burial. The ten goblets 
of wine that the sages have ordered in the house of a mourner. What shall 
be said in the fourth meal benediction in the house of a mourner ? 57-62 











vy 








SECTION NEZIKIN (JURISPRUDENCE). 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


re OF 


TRACT ABOTH (FATHERS OF THE 
SYNAGOGUE). 





[Several requests have been received by the translator that an index should be 
made to the volumes of the Talmud, as is customary with all modern works. It 
would be an utter impossibility to give a complete index of everything contained in 
the Talmud. Were it like other scientific works, which treat each subject separately, 
this could easily be done ; but with the Talmud it is different. On one page many 
different subjects may be discussed, and again a single subject may occupy several 
pages. The Talmud, therefore, has never had an index. 

After careful examination of the volumes, page by page, it has been decided to 
make a synopsis, z.¢., to give briefly the heads of the discussions and conversations 
upon each Mishna, indicating the page where the Mishna is to be found, and the 
Gemara of each one, which serves as a commentary. By this the reader should be 
able to refer to what he desires to know. 

A synopsis is therefore given of every Mishna which discusses a single subject, 
with its accompanying Gemara—in this volume, the Tosephtha; but when several 
short Mishnas cover the same subject, a single synopsis is given of the whole, includ- 
ing the Gemara of each one; and where a chapter is short, a synopsis of the whole 
chapter is made, without dividing it into Mishnas. 

This is the best that can be done, and it is hoped that readers will find it satis- 
factory. ] 


CHAPTER I. 


MISHNA A. The Great Assembly originated three maxims. Be deliber- 
ate in judgment. How so? The books of Proverbs, Song of Songs, and 
Ecclesiastes were hidden. How was Adam created? Why was Adam 
created on the last hour of the sixth day? On the same day on which he 
was formed, on the very same day his countenance was created, Accord- 
ing to others: ‘‘ Be deliberate in judgment” means not to have an irascible 
manner. Erect safeguards for the Law. The safeguard of the Lord, of 
Adam the First. The legend about Eve and the serpent, etc. The ten 
curses with which Eve was cursed at that time. ‘‘ Shall I and my cattle eat 
out of the same trough?” The tradition about the ox of Adam, the steer 
of Noah, and the ram sacrificed by Abraham, : : ‘ t I-II 


xii SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


CONTINUATION OF CHAPTER II. OF TOSEPHTHA.— What is the safeguard 
that the Torah made to its words? What Elijah the prophet answered the 
widow of the scholar who died in the prime of his life. What is the safe- 
guard that Moses made to his words? The reason why Moses broke the 
Tables? What is the safeguard that Job made to his words? The safe- 
guard that the prophets made to their words. The safeguard that the Hagiog- 
raphers made to their words. The eu that the sages made to their 
words, . ; ; II-I9 

CONTINUATION OF CHAPTER III. OF TOSEPHTHA. _Whoever takes a 
coin from charity when not in need of it, etc. Study the Lawin thy old age, 
even if thou hast studied it in thy youth. If you gave a coin to a poor man 
in the morning, and another one begs of you in the evening, give him also. 
What happened to a poor man with R. Aqiba. What happened to Benja- 
min the Just, . , ; 19-21 

MISHNA ZB. The motto of Simeon the Just pon the Torah, how so? 
Upon service, how so? Upon bestowal of favors, how so? Rabban Jo- 
hanan b. Zakkai and Rann In three nae mankind differ one from 
the other, . : 22-26 

MISHNAS C AND aes Be not like saves ae serve hein masters for the 
sake of compensation, Let the fear of Heavenbe upon you. Let your house 
be the meeting place of the wise. How did R, Aqiba begin his wonderful 
career? Not less astonishing was the literary career of R. Eliezer. How 
his father Hyrkanus reached the seats of Ben Zizith Ha Kesseth, Nakdimon 
b. Gurion, and Calba Shebua, ; 5 ‘ 26-32 

‘MISHNAS £ AND F. Let thy house be wide oeen for she poor. When the 
great affliction came upon Job, he prayed, etc. Teach thy house humility— 
the different explanations of this saying. Get thee a wise teacher. Judge 
everyone from his favorable side. The legend about a maiden who was led 
into captivity and the pious men who went to redeem her. Not only were 
the upright of former times themselves very strict and particular, but also 
their cattle were so. The ass of R. Hanina b. Dosa, . ¢ ‘ 32-38 

MISHNA G. Keep aloof from a wicked neighbor. Slanderers are pun- 
ished with plagues. The legend about Moses, Aaron, and Miriam. Do not 
consider thyself exempt from God’s chastisement, . i 2 J 38-41 

MisHnas 4 To XK. Make thyself not as those that predispose the Judges. 
Love work—how so? Donot care for superiority. See to it that your name 
be not known to the Government. Ye wise, be guarded in your words. 
Love peace—how so? Moses desired to die the same death Aaron did— 
how so? The legend of the death of Moses, at length. Pursue peace—how 
so? Love all men too, and bring them nigh unto the Law, . ‘ 41-50 

MisHNnaS Z TO Q. If I do not look to myself, who will do so? And if 
not now, when? He who does not desire to learn from his masters is not 
worthy to live. He who increases not, decreases—how so? He who serves 
himself with a tiara perishes. Fix atime for study. Promise little and do 
much, Receive everyone with friendly countenance. Make a master to 
thyself. ‘I have never found anything better for a man than silence.” 
Three things support the world. The disciples of Hillel ; of R. Johanan b. 
Zakkai—what was said about them and what they used to say. The con- 
solation of R. Johanan b. Zakkai by his disciples when his son died. Thy 


BS NS Re 


Naha So 

















ee 


=) 


eC aaE 
fee 


<s 


peat 
ERs 






ast ee 


ae 
enema pe 





res 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. xiii 


fellow’s honor must be as dear to thee as thine own. Do not allow thyself 
to be easily angered. The two proselytes that came before Hillel and 
Shammai. Repent one day before thy death, ‘ ; ; : 50-58 


CHAPTER II. 


MISHNAS A TO M. In choosing the right path, see that it is one which 
is honorable to thyself and without offence to others. All who occupy them- 
selves with communal affairs should do it in the name of Heaven. Do His 
will as if it were thy own, that He may do thy wil as ifit were His. Pass 
not judgment upon thy neighbor until thou hast put thyself in his place. 
The boor can never fear sin, and the ignorant can never be truly pious. 
The more feasting the more food for worms. What is the best thing to cul- 
tivate. Which is the evil way a man should shun. Warm thyself before 
the light of the wise. An envious eye, evil propensities, and misanthropy 
drive a man out of the world. The legend about Joseph the Just, R. Zadogq, 
R. Agqiba, R. Eliezer the Great, etc. How difficult it is for man to avoid the 
evil propensities. Love everyone except the infidels, the enticers, the mis- 
leaders, and the informers. Thy neighbor’s property must be as sacred as 
thine own, % : P : ‘ : 2 ; fe 58-65 

MISHNA W. Set thyself to learn the Law. Johanan b. Zakkai and the 
daughter of Nakdimon b. Gurion. Let noble purpose underlie thy every 
action. The sages who were recounted of R. Jehudah the Prince. How 
they were named by Issi b. Jehudah, : ~ ; < : . 65-70 


CHAPTER III. 


MISHNAS A TO V. Consider three things, and you will not fall into 
transgression. Pray always for the welfare of the Government. Whoever 
takes the words of the Torah to his heart. Render unto God what belongs 
to Him, for thou and all thou hast are His. Whomsoever fear of sin pre- 
cedes, his wisdom prevails. He whose works are in excess of his wisdom, 
his wisdom will endure, Be pliant with thy chief. Receive every man with 
cheerfulness. Mockery and frivolity are the forerunners of immorality. 
Everything is foreseen and free will is given, The world is judged by grace. 
All that we possess is merely a trust. Without knowledge of religion there 
can be no true culture, and without true culture there is no knowledge of 
religion. Qinim, canons, astronomy, and geometry are after-courses of wis- 
dom, ; ‘ p ; : ‘ : : : A ‘ : 70-81 


CHAPTER IV. 


MISHNAS A TO P. Who is a wise man? He who learns from every- 
body. Despise no man, and consider nothing as too far removed to come to 
pass. Be exceedingly lowly of spirit. Wear not the law of God as a crown 
to exalt thyself withal. Judge not alone, for none may judge alone save One. 
Whatsoever congregation is for the sake of Heaven will in the end succeed. 
Let the honor of thy disciple be as dear unto thee as the honor of thine asso- 


XiV SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


ciate. Be careful in thy study, for error in study counts for an intentional 
sin, . F f : : : a : : i 3 is 4 81-86 

MISHNA Q. Neither the security of the wicked nor the afflictions of the 
righteous are within the grasp of our understanding. Be beforehand in 
saluting every man. Be the lion’s tail rather than the fox’s head. Do not 
seek to appease thy friend in the hour of his passion. Look not upon the 
pitcher, but upon what it contains. Envy, sensuality, and ambition destroy 
life. Accept not the assurance of thy passions, that the grave will be a 
place of refuge for thee. Without thy consent wert thou created, born into 
the world without thy choice. Thou art living without thine own volition, 
without thine approval thou wilt have to die. About the death of Eliezer 
the Great. Set something apart for charity, before you are compelled to do 
so by others. Lower thy seat two or three rows from the place you intend 
to occupy. There are three persons whose life is not worth living. The 
safeguard for honor is refraining from laughter. Thesafeguard for wisdom 
is silence. Whoever marries a woman not suitable to him transgresses five 
negative commandments. Do not beas the lintel, which no hand can reach, 
etc., ; . , ° ° . ° : . . : 86-95 
MISHNA Q. (continued). Those that despise me shall be lightly esteemed. 
The support of the wise, etc. Do not keep away from a precept which has. 
no limit. Let the honor of thy disciple, etc. There is grain in Judea, straw 
in Galilee, and chaff on the other side of the Jordan. There is no love such 
as the love of the Torah. There is no wisdom such as the wisdom of man- 
ners. Whoever maintains peace in his own household, etc. The words of 
the Torah are as difficult to acquire as silken garments and are lost as. 
easily as, etc. All those things which are done in private shall be done as 
if they were done publicly. Do not isolate thyself from the community. 
The disciples are divided into three classes, etc. Whoever constitutes the 
Torah as the chief good, and considers worldly affairs as a secondary thing, 
etc. Conciliate not thy friend in the hour of his anger. The scholars are 


divided into four classes: One studies but does not teach others, etc. If 


one honor his friend for pecuniary considerations, he will in the end be dis- 
missed in disgrace, etc. On account of the four different means of forgive- 
ness, etc. Repentance must be to every one of them. However, one who 
has profaned the name of heaven has not the power to repent. Wherefore 
do scholars die before their time. Be careful in greeting thy neighbors. 
He who neglects the words of the Law on account of his riches. There isa 


case where one transgresses ignorantly, etc. One who connects himself 


with transgressors, etc, The punishment of the liar is that even when he 
tells the truth he is not believed, . ; a ; ‘. : ; 95-103 


CHAPTER V. 


MISHNAS A TO G. By ten sayings the world was created. For what 
purpose is this stated ? Whence is it deduced that a single person is equal 
to the whole creation? The Holy One, blessed be He, showed unto Adam 
all succeeding generations, together with their preachers, directors, leaders, 
prophets, heroes, criminals, and their pious. Nine hundred and seventy- 


ese es ais pega 


























SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. xv 


four generations before the creation of the world, the Torah was already 
written, etc. He created in man all that he created in his world—how so ? 
Ten generations were there from Adam to Noah. For what purpose was 
this stated ? The Lord said: I will not equal the evil thoughts to the good 
thoughts so long as their fate has not yet been sealed. Ten generations 
were there from Noah to Abraham. For what purpose was it necessary to 
state this? With ten temptations was Abraham our father tempted. They 
are as follows, etc. In contrast with these ten temptations the Lord performed 
ten miracles for his descendants in Egypt. When our fathers stood by the 
sea, etc. ‘‘ Arise, and pass through it,” etc. With ten temptations did our 
ancestors tempt God in the wilderness. By means of ten trials the Holy 
One, blessed be He, tested our forefathers. This sin with which the Israel- 
ites were afflicted is enough for that time, etc. Ten names of praise are 
applied to the Holy One, blessed be He. Ten ignominious names are 
applied to the idols. There are two sons of the clear oil. This refers to 
Aaron and Messiah. In the Torah there is written eleven times the word 
“‘she” when it ought to be “he.” Ten times did the Shekhina descend 
upon the earth. Ten degrees the Shekhina removed itself from one place to 
another. A prophet is called by ten different names. There are ten names 
for the Holy Spirit. Ten are called “ ie Ten miracles were wrought 
for our fathers in Egypt, . ‘ i 103-115 

MISHNAS ATO O. Ten miracles were performed for a our forefathers in 
Jerusalem, Jerusalem never was defiled by leprosy. How Kimchith, the 
mother of R. Ishmael, saw her two sons as high-priests on the same day. 
The men of Sodom have no share in the world tocome. About Kora’h and 
his company. ‘ The Lord killeth, and maketh alive ; he bringeth down to 
the grave, and bringeth up,” has reference to them. The generation of the 
desert. ‘‘Gather together unto me my pious servants, who make a covenant 
with me by sacrifice,” has reference to them. The ten tribes have no share 
in the world to come. R. Aqiba, however, said: ‘‘ As the day is first dark 
and then lightens up, so also their darkness will be followed by light.” The 
following seven have no share in the world to come, etc. There are three 
kings and four commoners who have no share in the world to come. Absa- 
lom has no share in the world to come. Seven things mark the clod, and 
seven there are for the sage. There are seven creations of as many grades 
of importance. Man possesses six qualifications, three of which belong also 
to the beast, and three to the angels. The evil spirits possess six qualifica- 
tions, three of which belong to man. There are seven sorts of hypocrites. 
That which is hidden is only so from human beings, but not from Heaven. 
There are seven things which, if used moderately, are wholesome to the 
body, and if in excess are the reverse. With seven things God created the 
world. Seven attributes are serving before the throne of Grace. There are 
seven dwelling-places. A wise man does not speak before those who sur- 
pass him in wisdom and years; and does not interrupt another in his 
speech; admits thetruth, etc. Seven kinds of punishments come on account 
of seven cardinal transgressions. About the execution of R. Simeon b. 
Gamaliel and R. Ishmael b. Elisha the high-priest. Captivity comes upon 
the world, etc. Five are not to be forgiven. Four kinds of views are held 
by men concerning property, . ; p ‘ ; ‘ : 115-131 


xvi SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


MisHNAS PTO GG. There are four kinds of dispositions among men, 
There are four kinds of pupils. There are four kinds of charity-givers. 
There are four kinds of visitors of the house of learning. There are four 
kinds of the disciples of the wise. Love inspired by ulterior motives, etc. 
Whatsoever gainsaying is for the sake of Heaven will have good results. 
Whosoever causes many to be righteous, sin prevails not over him. In 
whomsoever are the following three things, he is a disciple of Abraham, etc. 
Be courageous as the panther, light-winged as the eagle, swift as the deer, 
and strong as the lion, One five years old should study Scripture, etc. 
Turn it and turn it again, for everything can be foundtherein, . 131-133 


CHAPTER VI. 


MISHNAS A TO &. Whosoever is busied in Torah for the love thereof 
merits many things. Every day a Heavenly voice goes forth from Mount 
Horeb and proclaims as follows, etc. He who learns from his companion 
one chapter, etc., is bound to do him honor. The path of Torah, etc. 
Seek not greatness for thyself, and desire not honor. Greater is Torah than 
the priesthood, and than the kingdom. There are four things which bear 
good fruit in this world. A meritorious act has both principal and benefit. 
One who causes many to be righteous, no sin prevails fupon him. Regard- 
ing dreams, there are four sages, three scholars, three books of the prophets, 
and three books of the Hagiographa. Every assembly that is for the sake of 
performing a religious duty remains everlasting. Comeliness, strength, 
wealth, honor, wisdom, age, hoariness, and sons are becoming to the right- 
eous, etc. If thou shouldst give me all the silver, gold, and goodly stones 
and pearls that are in the world, I would not dwell but in a place of Torah. 
Five possessions had the Holy One in this world. Whatsoever the Lord 
created in this world He created only for His glory. There are three 
crowns: the crown of Torah, priesthood, and kingdom. Three things were 
said of charitable men. There are three different kinds among scholars. 
There are three different kinds of sweat that are beneficial to the body. 
There are six kinds of tears. There are three advantages in an earthen 
vessel. There are three advantages in a glass vessel. The money that the 
Israelites carried away from Egypt returned to Egypt. If you do the least 
wrong to your companion, it shall be considered by you the greatest wrong, 
etc. The following articles were hidden, etc., . ‘ ‘ : 133-143 


Pa 











SSS TT ER OPI Te 











i 

at 

‘i 

F 

4 

ye. 
y 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


TRACT DERECH ERETZ—RABBA 
AND ZUTA. 


RABBA. 


CHAPTER II. 


OF the Sadducees, common informers, the wicked, the hypocrites, the 
heretics, the Scripture says, etc. Of the terrifying, the overbearing, the 
haughty, the barefaced, and of those who develop only their muscular 
strength, the Scripture says, etc. Of evil-thinkers, story-tellers, tale-bearers, 
smooth-tongued persons, the Scripture says, etc. Who assaults his neigh- 
bor in private, and who insults him in public, etc. Who forestalls fruit, 
raises the prices, diminishes the measure, accepts payment in large-sized 
shekels only, and who lives on usury. The following leave no inheritance 
to their children, etc. The conceited, the slanderers, and those who indulge 
in obscene language, who are wise in their own eyes, etc. Who lets his 
young son marry an older woman, and who marries off his daughter to an 
old man, and who bestows favors upon those who are unworthy, etc. Who 
betrays his partner, does not return a lost thing to its rightful owner, loans 
money to another in order to get possession of his house and field, and 
who lives immorally with his wife, and maliciously slanders his wife, etc. 
Who are wronged and do not wrong, who consider themselves contemptible, 
and who overcome their passion, etc. Who loves his wife as himself, honors 
her more than himself, who leads his children on the right path, and who 
marries off his son in due time, etc. Who loves his neighbor, loans even a 
small amount to a poor man, etc. Who truthfully repent, who receive the 
repentant into their midst, who judge rightfully, reprove truthfully, propa- 
gate purity, are pure of heart, are merciful, distribute charity, exert them- 
selves in the study of the Law. Search for an opportunity to do good, pur- 
sue righteousness, etc. On account of the following four things an eclipse 
of the sun occurs, etc. On account of the following four things an eclipse 
of both the sun and the moon occurs, etc. On account of the following four 


xviii SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


things the estates of the citizens are destroyed, etc. Do not fret thyself to 
be equal to the evil-doers. There is no sitting above, neither is there eating, 
1s ASM AUR Cla Nt satf ua ni Pe aa 1-6 


CHAPTERS III. To VI. 


ONE who bears in mind the following four things, etc., will never sin. 
Think of a big palace in the centre of which the vat of a tanner is placed. 
If a man allows his lips to pass only respectable words. Becareful, each of 
you, in honoring your neighbor. Be always pleasant at your entering and H 
at your leaving. The angels, Abraham, and Lot, It is customary that, 
when entering, the master of the house enter first and the guest after him ; 
the reverse when leaving. Never shall a man enter the house of his neigh- 
bor without permission. The philosopher, Rabban Gamaliel, and his com- 
rades. Always consider strangers as burglars, and at the same time honor 
them as if each of them were R. Gamaliel himself. One who enters his 
neighbor’s house shall do what he is told by the host (provided it is legiti- 
mate). The legend about Simon b. Antiptaris, his guests, and R. Jehoshua. 
A man shall never be angry at his meals, Always shall a man try to agree 
with the majority of the people. Hillel the Elder, his wife, and the poor 
man. One shall not begin to eat the heads, but the leaves, of garlic or 
onions, . . . ‘ke : : eke : ‘ «| O-42 


CHAPTERS VII. To IX. 


WHEN two are sitting at the table, the elder one commences to eat first 
and the younger one after him. One shall not eat before the fourth hour. ; 
One who enters a house shall not ask for food, but shall wait until he is : 
invited. One should not offer presents to his neighbor, knowing that he 41 
would not accept them. When one who does not intend to buy is in the i 
market, he should not ask for the prices, for he misleads the sellers. One 
should not use a slice of bread to cover therewith a dish. Five things said 
Rabbi in regard to bread. One who comes to the table to take his meal 
shall not take his portion and give it to the waiter. Guests must not give | 
anything to the son of the host, etc., ‘ . . : . . 12-15 


CHAPTERS X. anp XI. 





himself before bathing? One who is not careful is an ass’s equal ; one who 
eats in the market is a dog’s equal. One must not spit in the presence of his 
_ neighbor, even in a bath-house. One shall not greet his neighbor when he 
is washing himself. He who walks the road, A common informer is con- 
sidered a murderer. He who hates his neighbor without cause is also con- 
sidered such. One who sets a definite time for the redemption of Israel 
through Messiah will have no share in the world to come, . : 16-19 


i 
: 

ONE who enters the bath-house may say, etc. How should one conduct i 
| 
i 











ae a ee ee 
Lees . 
Sa! cones aS 


SES EERE ENE 


i 
! 
; 


bd 
yj 
‘- 
ie 


a 

2 

£7 
i 

















SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. Xix 


ZUTA. 


CHAPTERS I. To IV. 


WHAT are the qualities of sages? Their thought concerning this world. 
If you have sustained a loss of your property, remember that Job, etc. When 
you hear others insult you, do not answer them. Love the Law;; love all 
creatures and respect them. Love doubtfulness. Keep alooffrom everything 
that may bring to sin. Keep aloof from grumbling. Seven patriarchs are 
resting in glory. Let all thy ways be for the sake of Heaven. Do not dis- 
cuss in the presence of one who is greater than you in wisdom. Accept the 
words of Law, even when you are in affliction. Be afraid of a light sin. Do 
not say, ‘‘I will flatter this man,” etc. If thou hast done much good to some 
one, consider it as very little. If others have done thee much wrong, etc. 
Do not hate the one who reproves thee. Let it be thy habit to say, “I do 
not know.” The commencement of making vows is the door to foolishness. 
Fifteen customs are ascribed to the sages. Beas the lower threshhold, upon 
which all persons tread. The society of scholars is alwaysagreeable. What 
should one study more—Scripture, Mishnayoth, or Talmud ? No pay shall 
be exacted for teaching. Do not complain of your being less wise than 
another. Do not complain that another one is beautiful and you are ugly. 
Let your ears not listen to vain talk. Be not afraid of the court of justice on 
earth. If you perform all the commandments with joy, etc. All that is 
said above is a warning to you, ‘ : ; ° : ‘ . 25-27 


CHAPTERS V. To IX. 


A SCHOLAR must not eat standing, etc., etc. By four things the scholar is 
recognized, etc. The beauty of wisdom is modesty. The beauty of noble 
performance is secrecy. Four things are derogatory to scholars, etc. When 
entering, the greater shall be first, etc. For saying benediction, the greater 
is first. The first step to sin is in one’s thoughts. A scholar must be care- 
ful in his eating, drinking, washing, anointing, etc. After peace but not 
after war. Rather follow behind a lion than behind a woman. Who 
respects the sages ?, etc. Keep aloof from anger. Love the poor in order 
that your children shall not come to poverty, etc. If you keep your mouth 
from slander, you will spend all the days of life in peace. When you see 
your neighbor has become poor, do not refuse to help him. If you lower 
yourself, the Lord will lift you up. This world resembles the eyeball of a 
man, etc., : , : . é ° . E * ‘ ‘ 27-31 


THE CHAPTER ON PEACE. 


ALTHOUGH evil decrees are enacted, one after another, against Israel, still 
they endure forever. Seek peace at the place where you are, and if you do 


XX SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


not find it, seek it in other places. All manner of lying is prohibited, except 
it be to make peace between one and his neighbor. Great is peace, in that 
the covenant of the priests was made with peace. When the Messiah shall 
come to Israel, he will begin with peace. Great is peace, in that all the 
benedictions and prayers conclude with peace. He who loves peace runs 
after peace, offers peace, and answers peace, the Holy One, etc., . 31-34 


cst eh ie AS DE See ee 


ES aR Sa 

















SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


TRACT BABA KAMA (THE FIRST 
GATE).° 


CHAPTER I. 


MIsHNA /, There are four principal cases of tort, etc. One thing is 
common to all. They are all likely to do damage and must be guarded 
against. The case of doing damage by digging up gravel. The different 
explanations of the word ‘‘mabeh” by Rabh and Samuel (foot-note). 
There are thirteen principal tort-feasors. The depository,t etc. There are 
twenty-four principal tort-feasors, What are the derivatives of all those 
principals? Why are the four principals, ox, excavation, mabeh, and fire, 
enumerated separately in the Scripture? From what and what kind of 
property must damage be collected? When the standard is taken, is it 
taken of one’s own lands or of those of the public in general ? In order not to 
close the door to borrowers, the sages have enacted that creditors should be 
paid out of the medium estates, If one conveys his estates to one or several 
persons, from whom and from what estates shall the creditors collect the 
money due them? In case one does a meritorious thing he shall do it up 
to one-third, ‘ ; ‘ 1-16 

MISHNAS //. TO Vv. In all that Lam charged with Sabie care of I have 
prepared the damage. There is a more rigorous rule in case of the ox 
than in the cases of the pit and the fire, and vice versa. Howso? If one 
left his ox in charge of five persons, and one of them left intentionally and 
the ox caused damage, what is the law? No appraisement is made for a 
thief or robber. If one hypothecates his slave or his ox and thereafter sells 
him. There isa difference between movable and immovable real estate. 
Slaves are considered movable real estate. During the killing, the bring- 
ing of the suit, and the making of the award there shall be one and the 
same owner. There are five cases which are considered non-vicious and 





* See introduction to Synopsis in Tract Aboth, Vol. I. (IX.), p. xi. 
+ Farther on we use the term “ gratuitous bailee,” as being more compre- 
hensive. 


x SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


five which are considered vicious, The tooth is considered vicious to con- 
sume, etc. What is a Bardalis? What is meant by “ best estates”? The 
meaning of the verse Is. xxxii. 20, . : , ‘ Ba : 16-29 


CHAPTER II. 


MIsHNAS J. TO //J. What tendency makes the foot to be considered 
vicious? Cocks that were flying from one place to another, and broke 
vessels with their wings. Cocks that were hopping on dough or on fruit, 
and made the same dirty, or that were flying and the wind produced by 
their wings damaged vessels, or that were pecking at a rope from which a 
water-pail was suspended, and, severing the rope, broke the water-pail— 
what is the law? The distinction between primary and secondary force. 
A dog that snatched and carried off a cake from the burning coals, and with 
the burning coal that stuck in the cake set fire to the barn, etc. There can 
be viciousness in case of “gravel in the usual way.” If an animal was 
walking in a place where it was impossible not to kick up gravel, and she 
kicked, and by so doing kicked up gravel and caused damage ; or if an animal 
caused damage by shaking the tail—what is the law? What tendency 
makes the tooth to be considered vicious? It happened that an ass con- 
sumed a loaf of bread contained in a basket and chewed up the basket, etc. 
If an animal was standing on private ground and an article was rolling 
toward the private ground, etc. About one who takes up his dwelling in 
the court of his neighbor without the latter’s knowledge. One who rents a 
house from Reuben must pay the rent to Simeon, etc. If one uses an un- 
occupied house of another for storing wood and straw, etc., what is the law? 
A certain person erected a palace on the ruins belonging to orphans, etc. 
A dog or a goat that jumps down from the top of a roof and breaks vessels 
liable for the whole damage. If, however, they fall down, there is no 
liability. Is one’s fire considered one’s arrow or one’s property? There is 
no liability for damages done by fire to concealed articles. How can such 
a case be found in the biblical law? The mouth of an animal (consuming 
something on the premises of the plaintiff), is it considered as if yet in the 
court of the plaintiff? There were certain goats belonging to the family of 
Tarbu that were doing damage to the property of R, Joseph, ; 30-47 

MisHNAS JV. TO VJ. What ox is considered non-vicious and what 
vicious ? One that has been warned for three days, The three days in 
question, are they such as to make the ox vicious, or do they also involve 
the owner? For one who sets his neighbor's dog on a third person, what is 
the law? An ox that gored, pushed, bit, lay down on, or kicked while on 
public ground pays half. The a@ fortiori argument regarding the half- 
payment of the horn. An ox that steps with his foot on a child lying on the 
premises of the plaintiff, what is the law in regard to the payment of atone- 
ment money? A human being is considered always vicious. One who 
carries a stone in his lap without being aware of it, and while getting up 
from his seat drops it, as regards damages he is liable. One who drops a 
vessel from the top of aroof upon the ground which has been covered with 














SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. xi 


pillows, and if another person remove them before the dropping of the 
vessel, etc., what is the law? Is a slave considered one’s body, and an ox 
one’s property? . A : m A é ‘ ¥ p $ 47-56 


CHAPTER III. 


MisuHnas Z. TO V. If one place a jug on public ground and another 
person stumble over it and break it, what is the law? One who kicks an- 
other with his knee is fined three selas ; with the foot, five ; with the fist, 
thirteen ; what is the fine if one strike his neighbor with the handle or the 
iron of the hoe? A jug that broke on public ground and its contents caused 
@ person to slip and fall, or one to be injured by its fragments, what is the 
law? About one who renounces ownership to his articles that cause 
damage. One who empties water into public ground, or one who builds 
his fence of thorns ; or a fence that falls into public ground, and some 
persons were injured thereby, he is liable. The former pious men used to 
bury their thorns and broken glass in their fields three spans below the 
surface. All those who obstruct a public thoroughfare by placing chattels 
therein and cause damage are liable. If one carrying a barrel followed one 
carrying a beam, and the barrel was broken by the beam, what is the law ? 
Potters and glaziers that walked one following the other, and one stumbled 
and fell, etc. If they all fell because of the first one, the first is liable for the 
damage ofallofthem, . . ° 57-69 

MisHNas VJ, TO X//I. Two that walked c on public ground, one running 
and the other one walking, etc., what is the law? One who chopped wood 
on public ground and caused damage on private ground, etc. One who 
enters a carpenter’s shop without permission, and was struck on his face by 
a flying splinter. About employees who came to demand their wages from 
their employer and were gored by his ox or bitten by his dog. About two 
non-vicious oxen that wounded each other. 

The difference in the explanation of the verse Exod. xxi. 35. About a 
non-vicious ox that has done damage and was sold, consecrated, slaughtered, 
or’presented to somebody. About an ox of the value of two hundred selas 
that gored another ox of equal value and the carcass was of no value what- 
ever. There are cases when one is liable for the acts of his ox and is free if 
they are his own acts, and vice versa. How so? The rule is that the 
burden of proof is upon the plaintiff. If one claims that he is positive, while 
the other one is not positive, what is the law? Oe a 


CHAPTER IV. 


Misunas /. TO JV. Anoxthat gores four or five oxen one after another, 
the last of them must be paid from the body of the goring ox, if he was yet 
considered non-vicious. About an ox that is vicious towards his own species, 
but not towards other species, or towards human beings, etc. There is a 
case where an ox became vicious ‘in alternate order.” About an ox 


xii SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


belonging to an Israelite that gored an ox belonging to the sanctuary (see foot- 
note). An ox of a sound person that gored an ox belonging to a deaf-mute, 
idiot, or minor, there is a liability. If the reverse was the case there is 
none. There is a difference of opinion of the Tanaim as to whether a 
guardian is appointed in order to collect from the body of the ox. Guardians 
pay from the best estates, but do not pay the atonement money. About one 
who borrows an ox with the sae a ai that he was non-vicious and it 
was found out that he was vicious, ‘ ’ . 82-93 

MIsHNAS V. TO ZX. An ox that killed a man by gerieg him, if he was 
a vicious one, the atonement money is to be paid, but not when he was a 
non-vicious one. How can there be found a vicious ox in regard to man ? 
If one confers, saying, ‘‘ My ox has killed a certain person,” or ‘‘ his ox,” he 
has to pay on his own testimony. If one’s fire has done damage without 
intention, is there a liability or not? About an ox that was rubbing against 
a wall, whereby the wall fell upon a human being and killed him. About 
an ox belonging to a woman, to orphans, or their guardian, etc., that killed 
aman. About an ox that was sentenced to be put to death and his owner 
consecrated him. About an ox delivered to a gratuitous bailee or a borrower, 
etc. About an ox which was properly locked up, but yet broke out and did 
damage. Whence is it deduced that one must not raise a noxious dog in his 
house, nor maintain a defective ladder ? : ‘ : , ‘ 93-105 


CHAPTER V. 


MisHNnas /. TO VI. Aboutan ox that gored a cow and the new-born calf 
was found dead at her side. The cow and her offspring are not separately 
appraised. A potter that placed his pottery in the court of another, or one 
who led his ox into the court of another without permission, what is the 
law ? When he assured the safety of the ox, did it only extend to himself or 
also to all cattle? About a woman that entered a house to bake, and the 
house-owner’s goat, having consumed the dough, became feverish and died. 
About one who enters a court without permission and injures the court- 
owner, or the latter is injured through him. About one who said: ‘Lead 
in your ox and take care of him,” and he did damage or was injured. About 
an ox which intended to gore another ox, and injured a woman and caused 
her to miscarry. To whom must the compensation for the miscarriage be 
paid, to the woman or to her husband? Does the increase in the valuation 
also belong to the husband? About an Israelite’s pledge which is in the 
hands of a proselyte, and the latter dies without heirs. About one who digs 
a pit on private ground and opens it into public ground, or vice versa. One 
who digs and opens a well and delivers it over to the community is free. 
About one who digs a pit on public ground and an ox or an ass falls into it. 
Are the vapors therein contained, or is the shock received by the animal, the 
cause of death when falling into a pit ? : , 106-120 

Misunas V/Z, To 7X. When a pit belongs t to wee partners, and one of 
them passes by and does not cover it, and so also does the second, the latter 
only is liable. About a pit which was ten spans deep and which was com- 














) 
| 


ee 


; 
j 
i 
| 
: 
: 
{ 
i 
j 
f 
; 
4 





SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. xiii 


pleted by another one to be twenty, and still by another one to be thirty 
spans deep. Each span of water equals two of dry ground. Ifone dig a 
pit ten spans deep and another widen it toward one direction only, what is 
the law? One who sells his house, the title passes with the delivery of the 
keys. If he sells a flock of cattle, title passes with the delivery of the Mash- 
khukhith (the forerunning goat kept at the head of the flock as a leader). 
If he covered the pit sufficiently to withstand oxen but not camels, and 
camels came along and made the cover shaky and then oxen fell therein, 
what is the law? What about the germon of damage? About one who 
places a stone on the edge of the opening of a pit, and an ox stumbles over 
the stone and falls into the pit. About an ox and a man who together push 
some other into a pit. There is no difference between an ox and another 
animal as regards falling into a pit, to have been kept distant from Mount 
Sinai, payment of double, restitution of lost property, unloading, muzzling, 
Kilayim, and Sabbath. Noristhere any difference between the above-men- 
tioned and a beast or bird. Why in the first commandments is it not writ- 
ten ‘that it may be well with thee,” while in the second commandments 
it is ? : ‘ ; ; . : ‘ r F . z . 120-130 


CHAPTER VI. 


Misunas J/. To ///. If one drive his sheep into a sheep-cot and properly 
bolt the gate, but still they manage to come out and do damage, he is free. 
There are four things for which one who does them cannot be held respon- 
sible before an earthly tribunal, although he will be punished for them by 
the Divine court. Is armed robbery, when not committed publicly, still 
considered theft as regards the payment of double? For frightening away 
a lion from one’s neighbor’s field the law awards no compensation. How 
does it pay what itdamaged? About one who came before the Exilarch 
and complained of another who destroyed one of his trees, One who de- 
stroys a young date-tree, what amount of damage must he pay? There was 
a case, and Rabh acted in accordance with R. Meir; but in his lectures, 
however, he declared that the Halakha prevails in accordance with R. Sim- 
eon b. Gamaliel (see foot-note), About one who puts up a stack of grain on 
another’s land without permission. One who started a fire through the 
medium of a deaf-mute, etc., : ; 131-142 

MisHNAs JV. TO V///, The law about one eho stakes a fire and it con- 
sumes wood, stones, or earth. No chastisements come upon the world un- 
less there are wicked ones in existence. When pestilence is raging in town, 
stay indoors, etc. Why does the verse begin with the damage by one’s 
property and end with damage done by one’s person? About a fire that 
passed over a fence four ells high. If one starts a fire on his own premises, 
how far must it pass to make the starter liable? About one who causes his 
neighbor’s stack of grain to burn down, and there are vessels therein which 
also are burned. If one allowed another to place a stack of wheat and he 
covered it with barley, or vice versa, what is the law? Is it customary 
with people to keep pearls in a money-pouch ? The law about a spark that 
escapes from under a blacksmith’s hammer and does damage, . 142-148 


xiv SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


CHAPTER VII. 


MISHNA J. The payment of double is more rigorous than the payment 
of four and five fold. The law about one who stole a lamb, and while in his 
possession it grew into a ram, etc. That a change acquires title is both 
written and taught. Why did the Scripture say that if he slaughtered and 
sold it he must pay four and five fold? A stolen thing, which the owners 
have not resigned hope to regain, cannot be consecrated, etc. The pious man 
used to place money in the vineyard on a Sabbatical year, declaring: ‘ All 
that is plucked and gathered of this fruit shall be redeemed by this money.” 
A writ of replevin which does not contain the following directions : ‘‘ Inves- 
tigate, take possession, and retain it for yourself,” is invalid, - 149-159 

MisHNas //. TO V7. About two witnesses who testify that the one stole 
an ox or a Sheep, and either the same or other witnesses testify that he 
slaughtered or sold the same. If he stole from his father. From what time 
on is a collusive witness disqualified to give testimony? If two witnesses 
testify that a certain person blinded his slave’s eye, and thereafter knocked 
out one of his teeth, and they also testify that the owner of the slave admit- 
ted it, and subsequently the witnesses are found collusive, what must the 
collusive witnesses pay? If two witnesses testify that he stole it, and one 
witness, or he himself, testified that he slaughtered or sold it, he pays only 
two, but not four and five fold. One who admits that he has incurred the 
liability of a fine, and thereafter witnesses appear, what is the law? About 
a confession which is made after the appearance of witnesses, and the dif- 
ferent opinions in regard to it. If the thief sells all but one hundredth part 
of it or he is a co-owner of it, what is the law? One who steals an animal 
which is lame or blind, or which belongs to a copartnership is liable, but 
partners that steal together are free. About one who steals an animal 
within the premises of the owner and slaughters or sells it outside of it, or 
vice versa. Why did the Scripture treat more rigorously with the thief 
than with the robber? Ponder over the greatness of labor, etc., . 159-174 

MisHNA VJ. No tender cattle must be raised in Palestine but in its 
forests. A shepherd (who raises tender ‘cattle) that repented, we do not 
compel him to sell out all his cattle at once. No tender beasts shall be 
raised in Palestine, except dogs, cats, and monkeys. R. A’ha b. Papa said 
in the name of R. Hanina b. Papa three things. Upon ten conditions did 
Joshua divide the land among the settlers. The ten enactments of Ezra. 
Noswine is permitted to be raised at any place. Rabbi, the Prince of Pales- 
tine, objected to the use of the Syriac language, and insisted that only the 
Holy and the Greek languages should be used in Palestine. R. Jose objected 
to the use of the Aramean language in Babylon, and insisted that the Holy 
and the Persian languages should be used. No dogs shall be kept unless 
onachain. In the towns adjoining the frontier they must be kept on a 
chain only in the day time, j ; ‘ ; ; ‘ ; . 174-181 


CHAPTER VIII. 


Misunas JZ. AND J/. The four items of damage: pain, healing, loss of 
time, and disgrace. Howso? It happened that an ox lacerated the arm 

















A aa ee 
Sn pag ao BP) ay ake eee 


— ae 





—— 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. xv 


of a child, and the case came before Rabha, etc. When the damage is paid 
for, how should the pain be appraised separately? Healing. If pus col- 
lected by reason of the wound, and the wound broke out again, etc. The 
sages say that healing and loss of time go together. If the defendant should 
say, ‘‘I will cure you myself, the plaintiff may object,” etc. Shall we assume 
that the appraisement for the deafness is sufficient, or each of the injuries 
must be appraised separately? (See foot-note.) If one strikes another and 
makes him temporarily unfit to labor, what is the law? Disgrace—all those 
who sustain injury are looked upon as if they were independent men, etc. 
One who causes disgrace to a nude, blind, or sleeping person is liable. If 
one causes shame to a sleeping person who subsequently dies while asleep, 
what is the law? Is the reason because of the hurting of his own feelings, 
or because of the feelings of his family? Is a blind person required to per- 
form all the commandments? and what R. Joseph, who was blind, said of 
that, . 2 : : : ; , ‘ z : 182-193 
MisHnas ///. TO V. The law is more rigorous in regard to a man than 
in regard to an ox, etc. One who assaults his father or mother, but does not 
bruise them, and one who wounds another on the Day of Atonement, are 
liable to pay all the items of damage. To whom belongs the compensation 
received by one’s minor daughter fora wound? About an investment for 
a minor and the nature thereof. Is aslave considered a “brother”? The 
Halakha prevails that the benefit in case of a woman who sells her right in 
the marriage contract belongs to herself; and if she bought estates therewith, 
her husband has nothing even in their income. If one blow into the ear of 
another, he pays one sela for the disgrace he caused him. What if one 
strikes another with the palm or with the back of his hand on the cheek? 
This is the rule: Rank and station of the parties are taken into considera- 
tion. May a witness be a judge in the same case? A non-vicious ox that 
killed a man and also caused damage to another, must his owner pay for 
the damage, besides the payment of the atonement money? All that was 
said concerning disgrace is only for the civil court, as to how much the 

plaintiff should receive, but there can be no satisfaction for the injury to the 
feelings, for which, if he would even offer all the best rams of the world, 

they would not atone, unless he prays the plaintiff for forgiveness. The 

origin of a series of sayings by the rabbis as well as by ordinary people. If 
one says to another, ‘“‘ Break my pitcher,” etc. A money-pouch containing 

charity funds was sent to Pumbeditha, and R. Joseph deposited it with a cer- 

tain man who did not take good care of it and it was stolen from him, and 

R. Joseph held him responsible. What Abayi said to him about it, 193-210 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


TRACT BABA KAMA (THE FIRST 
GATE).” 


CHAPTER IX. 


MIsHNAS J/. To ///, If a change on the face of an article gives title to the 
possessor and if it is biblically? Would all the above-mentioned Tanaim 
trouble themselves to teach us a Halakha of the Beth Shammai? Robbers 
and usurers, if they make a restitution of their own accord, it should not be 
accepted, etc. There are three cases in which the increase is appraised and 
the payment is with money. I and the King Sabura are brothers in regard 
to court cases. (See foot-note.) Did not I tell you, You shall not change 
names? R. Joseph bar Hama used to compel slaves of his debtors to labor 
for him, etc. What were the coins of Jerusalem and what were the coins of 
Abraham the patriarch? Labor which cannot be recognized on the body 
of the animal as damaging, the civil court cannot make him liable for. Isa 
germon considered a direct pecuniary loss? May the court decide a case of a 
goring ox in its absence? If a specialist took a thing to repair it and he 
spoiled it. A builder who undertook to take apart a wall, and he broke the 
stones or bricks. A butcher specialist, if he has spoiled the meat he is a tort- 
feasor, and is also considered wilful, etc. Why so many reasons? ‘I think 
your brain is not in regular order.” ‘‘ Rabh did two good things regarding 
you. He prevented you from using a doubtful thing, and also restrained you 
from possible robbery.” There was a woman who showed a coin to R. Hyya, 
etc. Resh Lakish showed a dinar to R. Elazar, and he told him it was a good 
one. He said then: ‘See, I rely upon you,” etc., . ; - . + 211-228 

MisHNnas /V. TO V7. If one gave wool to the dyer, and it was spoiled. 
To be dyed red, and it is dyed black, or conversely. To make a chair of it, 
and he has made a bench. Is the color of the dyes to be considered as exist- 
ing upon the wool or not? In one tract is the order of the Mishna not to be 
taken in consideration, but in two different tracts it must be considered ? The 
whole of Section Damages is considered as one tract. If one has given money 
to his messenger to buy wheat, and he buys barley. If one buys a field in 
the name of his neighbor. Kahana paid money for flax. In the mean time 





* Continuation of previous volume. 








Sy 
ie Se 


EES 
SPS 





= - 
ee 


SESE 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. v 


the flax became dearer and the seller sold it (for Kahana’s benefit). One 
who has stolen the value of a coin swears falsely and afterwards confesses. 
The same is the case in a deposit. If one has robbed one of five persons, 
and he does not know which of them. It happened with one pious man who 
bought of one of two persons, and he did not know from which of them. A 
messenger must not be made in his absence. It happened with R. Abba, who 
was the creditor of R. Joseph bar Hama, and the former asked R. Safra to 
bring, etc. ‘‘ My master, do you mean to deduce from this Scripture that it 
must be paid, or you say is it common?” If one has robbed two bunches 
of the value of a parutha and had returned one of them, how is the law? 
He who denies a deposit is considered as a robber. As soon as the owner 
has taken an oath, he has not to pay. One who claims ‘‘stolen” on a 
deposit, or of a lost article he has found, must pay double, etc. The three 
oaths—first, that I have done all my duty in taking care of it; second, that 
I did not make use of it; and third, that it is not under my control. If a 
gratuitous bailee swore it was stolen, and, nevertheless, he paid : and then the 
thief was found. Where is my bailment? Lost! Do you swear by God ? 
Amen. Witnesses testified that he himself had stolen it. If one robbed his 
father and swore falsely, and after his death he confessed. ‘I swear you shall 
have not any benefit from my estate.” If one robbed a proselyte and swore, 
and afterwards the proselyte died. The priests who receive the robbery 
of the proselyte, are they considered heirs, or only receivers of a dona- 


tion? . : s ‘ é - , ‘ ‘ ; ‘ ; 228-250 


CHAPTER X. 


MisHNAS JZ. TO VJ. If one left money made by usury for his heirs, 
although they know of it, they are not obliged to return it. The brother-in- 
law of R. Jeremiah, who was a minor, shut the door in- his face, etc. The 
testimony of witnesses can be taken even in the absence of the parties. May 
a document be approved even not in the presence of the party, or it must 
not? It is an obligation on the court to give notice to the defendant that 
his property will be sold. A messenger of the court should be trusted as 
two witnesses, etc. One must not be summoned by the court on the eve of 
a Sabbath. Money must not be changed from the treasury of duties, etc. 
Why contractors of duty are counted among murderers. R. Ashi happened 
to be on the road, and saw a vineyard in which some grapes were ripe, etc. 
A contractor of the government has the right to pledge a fellow-citizen for 
the duty of another citizen of the same city, etc. If the contractors returned 
him instead of his ass another one, etc. If one saved an estate from the 
stream or from robbers, etc. Are a woman and a minor qualified to be 
witnesses? A child was telling: It happened that my mother and I were 
prisoners among the heathens, and I did not turn away my eyes from my 
mother, etc., . ‘ ‘ i 7 ; ‘ : ; ; 250-262 

MisHNAS /V. To VJ. If one recognizes his utensils or books by another, 
If a thief has sold out his stolen articles, and later it was recognized that he 
is the thief. If the thief was a notorious one. If one destroys his own goods 
for the sake of saving the goods of his neighbors. The redemption money of 
a caravan in a desert is to be charged proportionately to the amount each of 


vi SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


them possesses, etc. If a robbed field was taken away by land robbers. 
There was a man who showed to the contractor a heap of wheat belonging 
to the Exilarch. There was a man by whom a silver goblet was deposited, 
he presented it when he was attacked by robbers, .. : . 262-270 

MisHNAS V//. TO X/JZ/, If a stream has overflowed the robbed field. If 
one says, I have robbed you, and I don’t know if I have returned it to you. 
One must not buy from the shepherds kids of goats, etc. And not fruits from 
the watchman. One who robs his neighbor, even the value of a parutha, is 
considered as if he would take away his life. One shall not buy from the 
carder flocks, because they are not his property. What about the splinters 
which fall out by the carpenter? . i ; ; é ‘ 270-277 











ee 





SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


fa 


TRACT BABA METZIA (MIDDLE 
GATE). 


CHAPTER I, 


MISHNA /. Two persons who hold a garment, and each of them claims 
that he has found it. A biblical oath is given only when there is an admis- 
sion in part from the defendant, If the plaintiff claims a hundred and the 
defendant says only fifty, and here they are. If one claims a hundred, and 
the other denies all, and there are witnesses for fifty, what shall the oath 
contain? When one of the two holders overcame the other and took it away, 
what is the law? There was a bath-house about which two parties quar- 
relled—one of them arose and consecrated it. When two hold a note, the 
lender claims the note is not yet paid, and. the borrower says the note is 
paid. Where is “the theory of because” to be used? The law is that 
leading gives title. If one was found riding upon a found ass, and another 
was holding the bridle, ° , ‘ ‘ : ‘ . I-17 

MisHNas //, TO VJ, If one sees an article on the road, and says to his 
neighbor, bring it tome. If one picks up an article for another, the latter 
does not acquire title. Why so? If one has seen an article, and he fell upon 
it. If one has seen people running after a lame stag on his field. It hap- 
pened that R. Gamaliel said: ‘The tithe which I am going to measure 
should be delivered to Joshuah.” When one throws a purse of money through 
the open door. When a thing was found by one’s minor son or daughter, or 
his Jewish man or maid servant, or his wife. When one has found a note 
which secures real estate. If Reuben sold a field to Simeon with security, 
and the creditor of Reuben came and took it away. Encumbered property is 
not liable either for the used fruits, etc., for the benefit of humanity. How 
a bill of sale must be written. If one buys an estate, knowing that the seller 
is not the real owner of it. If the robber after he has sold it bought it from 
the real owner. If one says that the estate which I am about buy now shall 
be transferred to you at the same time that I acquire title to it. When I was 
about six or seven years old, my father was among the scribes of Mar 
Samuel’s court. If one claims a hundred zuz, and the other denies ; after- 
wards he says, I have paid it. If one finds documents of divorce, of enfran- 


vi SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


chisement of a slave, of presents, etc. What is to be considered a will ? 
documents signed by the court, documents of a claim, etc. What is meant 
by claiming documents ? What is called aroll? When three borrowed from 
one, €6,, ">. ° ° Cure Wate a : é . 17-43 


CHAPTER II. 


MISHNAS /, TO VJ. There are found articles which belong to the finder 
without any proclamation. If there is a change in the found article which 
usually ought not to be. The renouncing of hope in regaining a lost article 
whose loss is not yet certain, Amaimar, Mar Zutra, and R. Ashi hap- 
pened to be in the garden of Mari bar Issak, and the gardener placed before 
them dates and pomegranates. The rule concerning a lost article is this. 
Whether a number is considered a distinguishing mark or not? The reason 
why the sages decided that the place is not to be considered a mark. If one 
finds a purse in the market, how is the law? The following articles he must 
proclaim. Three coins one upon the other, etc. (See foot-note, p. 55.) If 
one found, under a wooden wall, pigeons tied one to the other. If he found 
a covered vessel. If one found anything in a heap of rubbish. If one has 
seen money dropped on sand, and afterwards found and took it. If one 
found something in a store. If one found money in fruit sent to him, . 44-59 

MisuHnas VJ. TO X///. The returning according to marks given is bib- 
lically or rabbinically? Until what time is he obliged to proclaim? R. 
Ami happened to find a purse with dinars in the presence of a Roman. If 
one identifies the article but not its marks. If the found article is of such 
a kind that it labors for its food. And if of such a kind that it does not labor. 
If one found books. If the article was a garment. Vessels of silver and 
copper. It is better to drink a goblet from the hand of a witch than to drink 
a goblet of lukewarm water. R. Ismael b. Jose was on the road, and met 
a man carrying a bundle of wood. What is to be considered a lost thing? 
If he returned it and it runs away again. What is to be deduced from the 
twofold expressions in many passages written in the Scripture? The loss 
of time must be appraised according to one’s loss in his special trade. If 
he has found the animal in a stable, in a public thoroughfare. The com- 
mandment of the Scripture is for unloading, but not loading. How is this 
to be understood? If one lost a thing, as did his father before, etc. If his 
father and his master were overloaded. They who occupy themselves 
with the study of Scripture are not to be blamed, etc. See foot-note, 


p- 79, : ° ; : : , ; : ; : : ‘ 59-80 


CHAPTER III. 


MisHNAS J, TO JV. A deposit stolen or lost, paid by the depository, of 
which thereafter the thief was found, to whom shall the double amount be 
paid? A gratuitous bailee, when he said, I have neglected my duty, etc. 
There was lost a deposited nose-jewel, and R. Na’>hman made him pay by 
force. Finally the article was found, and was increased in value, etc. If 
an article was appraised for the sake of a creditor, and the latter appraised 














a 





SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. vii 


it for his own creditor, may the returning take place or not? From what 
time may the creditor use the products of an appraised estate? If one has 
hired a cow and he loaned it to some one else. It can happen that the hirer 
has a right to require several cows from the owner of one cow. How so? 
A bailee who has transferred the bailment to another bailee, how is the 
law? The Halakha prevails, that a bailee who has transferred the bailment 
to another bailee of any kind is responsible. If doubtful money is to be col- 
lected or not (illustrated in Mishna III.) ? Do you want to contradict a case 
of deposit with a case of robbery? A robber must be punished. If there 
was an uncertainty of both the plaintiff and the defendant, how is the law? 
If one deposits fruit at his neighbor’s? If one becomes a prisoner, may his 
property be transferred to his nearest relatives or not? The difference 
between forsaken, abandoned, and a prisoner’s properties. The estate of a 
prisoner must not be transferred to a minor relative, and not the estate of 
a minor to any relative. There was an old woman who had three daughters; 
together with one of them she was taken to prison, and of the remaining 
two one died and left a child. A brother of Mari b. Isk came to him and 
demanded a share of the inheritance, and he said, I do not know you, 
81-97 

MIsHNAS Vl. TO X/, The quantity of usual losses one may count to de- 
posited articles of grain and fruit? Losses of wine and oil depend upon the 
kind of barrels in which placed. Ifa barrel is deposited for safe-keeping, and 
the depository handled it, and it broke while yet under his hand. Peculiar 
is the stretching of hands which reads in regard to a bailee for hire, in con- 
nection from the same expression in the Scripture which reads in regard 
to a gratuitous bailee. If one has deposited money for safe-keeping, and the 
depository tied it and carried it on his shoulder, etc. Nothing is considered 
safety with money, unless it is hidden in the ground. It happened that one 
deposited money with his neighbor, and he gave it to his mother for safe- 
keeping, and it was stolen. Money deposited for safe-keeping with a money- 
changer. A depository who stretches his hand for the bailment. If one 
intends to use a bailment deposited in his control and says so, the liability 
follows immediately, . 7 ‘ ‘ : ; : : : 97-109 


CHAPTER IV. 


MisHNAS J, TO V. If one bought gold and silver coins together and made 
a drawing on the gold ones, title is also given to the silver ones, but not vice 
versa. Rabh borrowed dinars from the daughter of R. Hyya; thereafter 
the dinars increased in value. One holds that the law of exchange applies to 
acoin also, and another holds that it does not. If one were holding some 
coins in his hands and said: Sell me your articles for the money I have 
in my hand, and the other agrees. If one said: Sell me for this amount, 
title is acquired, and nevertheless the law of fraud applies. According to 
whom do we write in our legal papers, With an utensil which is fit to con- 
firm with? Biblically, money paid gives title ; why, then, was it said that 
drawing is needed? According to Abayi, he who retracts ought to be noti- 
fied that he will be punished by Heaven, and according to Rabha he shall 


viil SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


be cursed. It happened that one gave money for poppy, meanwhile the 
poppy increased in price. Tabuth or Samuel b. Zutra was such kind of a man 
that he would not change his word, even if all the goods of the world were 
delivered to him, and he told: The above case of poppy happened to me. 
Cheating, which according to law makes the sale null and void, is in case 
where the sum of which he was cheated counts four silver dinars. Until 
what time the retraction may take place? The law of fraud applies to the 
buyer as well as to the seller, to a private as well as toa merchant. There 
is no cheating concerning a specialist who knows the value. If one is doing 
business with his neighbor in trust. (See foot-note, p. 127). How much less 
of the quantity of a sala should be effaced, that the law of fraud could not be 
claimed? The prescribed quantity for cheating is four silver dinars to each 
sala, s 3 i EG ¥ i ‘ , ; 110-132 
MisHNnas V7. TO X. There are five fifth parts which must be added to 
the principal amount. The things to which the law of cheating does not 
apply. Does the law of cheating apply toa hire? The laws of usury and 
cheating apply only to commoners, not to the sanctuary. A gratuitous 
bailee does not swear. If one bought wheat and sowed it in the field, how 
is the law? If there was fraud to more than a sixth of the value, how is the 
law? As cheating is prohibited in buying or selling, so it is in words. 
Cheating in words is more rigorous than cheating in money. To what thing 
do the western people pay more attention? One should always be careful 
with the honor of his wife. The noted legend of the oven of the Akhina. 
The law is not in the heavens. We do not care for a heavenly voice. Regard- 
ing cheating, there are three negative commandments. One must not 
mix together fruits from two separate fields. A merchant may buy grain 
from five barns, and place it in one storeroom. The embellishment of arti- 
cles which are to be sold is forbidden, ; P ; ; ' 132-144 





Sa ell i 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


TRACT BABA METZIA (MIDDLE 
GATE). 





CHAPTER V. 


MISHNAS /, TO JV. What is considered usury, and what increase? Why 
does the Scripture mention separately a negative commandment regarding 
usury, robbery, and cheating? A small liquid measure one shall not fill up 
in a manner to make foam. Why is the redemption from Egypt mentioned 
in the Scripture in conjunction with usury, zizith, and weight? Usurers are 
equalled to shedders of blood. ‘‘ That thy brother may live wzth thee” (but 
shall not die with thee, z.¢., the life of thyself is preferred to, etc.). One must 
not fix a price on fruit before the market prices are announced. The many 
things which may be done in a sale, but not in a loan, as they may appear 
usurious. The rule of usury intransactions is: If one sells the article cheaper 
because it is not yet in his possession, etc. If one has returned robbed money 
with an account of other money he had to give, he has done his duty. A 
lender must not dwell in his debtor’s house ‘for nothing,” or even for de- 
creased rent. Hiring may be increased, but not sale. How so? One is 
allowed to increase the price of an article when the money is to be paid 
at a certain time after delivery (provided he does not say: ‘If for cash, you 
will have it cheaper”). There are cases in which the use of the fruit is per- 
mitted to both, prohibited to both, permitted to the seller only. Stipulations 
which may or may not be made in selling real estate. What is to be con- 
sidered gossip. Does an asmakhta (for definition see p. 160) give title or 
not? There was a man who sold an estate with the security of his very best 
estates, finally they were overflooded. Is usufruct considered direct or in- 
direct usury? In places where it is the usage for the lender to use the fruit 
from a pledged estate without any deduction of the debt, and the borrower 
has a right to return the money at any time, then is the law, etc. A scholar, 
however, must not do even this. From pledged estates a creditor of the 
lender has no right to collect in case he dies. Also a first-born of the lender 
cannot claim the double amount prescribed to him biblically. If the bor- 
rower say to the lender: Stop using the fruit, etc. The different customs in 
pledging real estate at Papuna, Mehusa, Narsha. Why a pledge is called 
mashkhantha j Z he , , i 145-166 

1x 


x SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


MISHNAS V, TO XJ. The law about giving money or articles for half 
profit. The proper payment for raising cattle. Why R. Papa decided dif- 
ferently in the cases of the Samaritans who appeared before him. R. Hama 
used to rent zuzes daily for the smallest coin for each zuz and he lost his 
money. All animals which are laboring for their food may be appraised, 
that the increase shall be divided equally. One may say to a farmer: I shall 
give you twelve kur of grain instead of the ten you demand, if you will 


lend me some money to manure your field. One may rent a boat on the ~ 


condition that should it break he shall be responsible. One may say: I 
take your cow for the price of thirty dinars in case it should die, etc. May 
money belonging to orphans be lent for usury or not? One who lends 
money for a business which is very likely to bring profit with little chance of 
loss is wicked ; for one which is likely to bring loss and far from profit, is pious, 
etc. An iron sheep must not be accepted from an Israelite, etc. (for explan- 
ation see Mishna V//.). An Israelite may lend to his race money belonging 
to non-Israelites for usury, etc. The interpretation of verse 8, Prov. xxviii. 
The meaning of verse 24, Ex. xxii. He who takes usury will lose all his 
possessions, What is to be done with the usury promised by or to a heathen, 
after he has been proselyted. A note in which usury is mentioned the lender 
must not be allowed to collect even the principal, which he must forfeit as a 
fine. Articles for delivery during the year must not be bought for a certain 
price before the market price is fixed. If one travelled with stock from one 
place to another, and while on the road his neighbor asked him to sell to 
him at the price of the place he intends to go to, etc. What Samuel ordered 
the grain dealers, who used to advance money for grain to the farmers, to do. 
Also the order of Rabha to the watchmen. Are the rabbis consuming 
‘‘usury ” by paying in Zishri for the wine they will choose in Zeveth when 
it is already in good condition? I call your attention, master, to the rabbis, 
who pay head-tax charges for those who cannot pay them, etc. Seuram used 
to compel doubtful characters to carry the palanquin of Rabha. If one of a 
company of three partners has given money to a messenger to buy some- 
thing, it is to be considered as for the company, and not as for himself. If 
the grain was to be finished with two kinds of labor only, one may fix the 
price, but not if he require three kinds of labor. There was a man who 
paid a stipulated amount for an outfit to be delivered at the house of his 
daughter’s father-in-law, in the meantime the value of the equipment was 
reduced, etc. One may lend his gardeners wheat to be returned in the 
harvest-time the same measure, etc. (for meaning see p. 184). Hillel (the 
First) says: A woman must not lend a loaf of bread to her neighbor unless 
a price is stipulated for it, for fear wheat may become dearer, and then the 
return of the loaf (of the same quality) will appear usurious. The Hala~ 
kha, however, does not so prevail. One may say to his neighbor: Help me 
in weeding or digging to-day and I will help you on some other day, etc. 
There is a kind of usury which may be called preceding usury, and another 
kind which may be named succeeding usury. How so? If one owes his 
neighbor money and it was not customary for him to greet him first, before 
the loan, he must not do so after the loan took place. If one is aware that 
his debtor has nothing with which to pay he must not pass him by. There 
are three who cry for help and are not heard P ; ‘ . 166-187 
































eS 5 ae 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. xi 


CHAPTER VI. 


MisHnas 7. TO ZV. He who hired day laborers and they deceived one 
another, there is nothing but resentment, etc. (see p. 189). Whoever changes 
his words or retracts them has to suffer for the injury caused. The rabbis 
hold that the laborers have always the preference. R. Dossa, however, holds 
that the employer has the preference. Said Rabh: The Halakha prevails in 
accordance with R. Dossa. Did Rabh indeed say so? If one sold a field 
for a thousand zuz, and the buyer gave him a deposit of two hundred, and 
the seller retracts, etc. As to whether a deposit gives title or not Tanaim 
differ in their opinions in pages 193-4. How a Bill of Sale must be written 
according to R. Simeon b.G. Payment in installments is valid, though it 
was not so stipulated. If one hired an ass for use on a mountain, and he 
used it in a valley, or vice versa, although the distance for which it was 
hired was equal (in both ways), the hirer is responsible for an accident. 
Who is responsible for an amgaria? (See p. 195.) If one has hired an ass 
for the purpose of riding, and it dies while in the middle of the way, etc. 
If one hires a boat and it sinks in the middle of the way. If one hires a boat 
for a certain place, and has unloaded it while in the middle of the way. 
What may or may not be placed upon the ass which was hired for riding 
only. If one hires an ass to be ridden by a male, the same must not be 
ridden by a female. If one hires a cow for ploughing on the mountain and 
he plough in a valley, etc. How is it if the plough-handle breaks, and there 
has been no change in the agreement, etc.? If one hired an ass to carry 
wheat and he used it for barley. Which quantity of overloading makes 
one responsible to the bearing on shoulders, to a skiff, to a larger boat, and 
toaship . ‘ ; ; : : : ; d : 187-201 

MisHnas V. To V/. All specialists are considered bailees for hire. One 
may let out a pledge of a poor man and deduct the amount earned from his 
indebtedness. If one hires a cow, how shall he pay in case it is lost? (See 
p. 202 for meaning). If one bought utensils from a specialist to send to the 
house of one’s father-in-law, etc. There was a man who sold wine to his 
neighbor, and the buyer said: I shall carry it to such a place, etc. Guard 
for me this article and I will guard yours to-morrow; or, I will lend you, or 
vice versa. All are considered bailees for hire, one to the other. The two 
cases in which R. Papa and Rabha were embarrassed for their decisions and 
finally it was found that their decisions were correct. If a depositary said: 
Leave it here “for you,” he has no responsibility whatever, but how is the law 
if he said: Leave it “anonymously”? On a pledge he is considered a bailee 
for hire. If one carries a barrel from one place to another and breaks it, he 
must swear that there was no neglect, etc. R. Eliezer was wondering how 
such a decision could hold good. What shall he swear? I swear that I 
broke it unintentionally. There were carriers who broke a barrel of wine 
belonging to Rabba b. b. Hana, while in his service, and Rabh commanded 
Rabba to return their garments and pay them for their labor, for this is the 
meaning of the verse, Prov. ii. 20 : i : ‘ . . 201-208 


CHAPTER VII. 


MisHNaA J. One cannot compel his employees to come earlier or depart 
later than is customary at that place, although it was agreed upon. It hap- 


xii SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


pened with R. Johanan b. Mathea, who said to his son: Go and hire laborers 
for us, etc. Resh Lakish’s advice to laborers in general. The legend, how 
R. Eliezer b. R. Simeon was appointed by the government to capture thieves. 
He who would like to see a beauty similar to that of R. Johanan shall take a 
silver goblet just out of the worker’s, etc. The legend of R. Johanan with 
Resh Lakish, and how the latter married the sister of the former, and how 
the death of both Johanan and Resh Lakish occurred. The continuation of 
the legend about R. Eliezer, how he accepted chastisements upon himself, 
how he was kept unburied, in his attic, many years; how finally he was 
buried ; what his wife answered Rabbi (the prince) when he asked her to 
marry him; how Rabbi has also accepted chastisements, etc., etc. (wonderful 
legends from 211-219). He who is a scholar himself and_his son and grand- 
son are also, the Torah does not depart from their children for everlasting, 
etc. R.Zera, when he ascended to Palestine, fasted one hundred days in 
order to forget the Gemara of the Babylonians, etc. Resh Lakish used to 
mark the caves of the rabbis. R. Zera’s dream. Elijah (the Prophet) fre- 
quently appeared in the college of Rabbi. (See the whole legend, pp. 222- 
224.) The Hagadah about Abraham with the Angels ; the names of those 
Angels, Why did the Lord change Sarah’s words when telling them to 
Abraham? Until the time of Abraham there was no mark of old age; until 
the time of Jacob there was no sickness; until the time of Elisha there was 
no one who became cured from sickness. . : : ; . 208-229 

MisHNAS J//, TO ZX. Who are the laborers who have a right, according 
to the law of Scripture, to partake of the fruits of their labors? Whence is 
all this deduced? The particular law about muzzling an ox while laboring. 
How is the law if the animal is sick and the consuming of grain injures it ? 
May it be muzzled? When Gentiles steal bulls and castrate them, and 
return them to their owners, may the Israelites use them or not? (See 
footnote, p. 235.) If one has “muzzled” a cow only with his voice, or if 
one leads two kinds of animals with his voice only, is he guilty or not? 
R. Papa and also R. Ashi told in their colleges what they were questioned 
and decided not in accordance with the existing laws and the reasons. Why 
the labor of a workingman entitles him to consume the fruit of that with 
which he is laboring. If one is occupied with pressing dates, he must not 
consume grages, and vice versa. A laborer must not consume more than 
his wages, etc. Does the Scripture add to his wage the consuming of the 
fruit with which he is engaged? Or is it a part of his wage? A laborer 
has the right to make a stipulation that he shall not eat what he is entitled 
to and take money for it instead. Watchmen of fruits are permitted to eat, 
according to the custom of the country, etc. The following laborers have a 
right to partake according to the law of Scripture, etc. There are four kinds 
of bailees: A gratuitous bailee, a borrower, a bailee for hire, and a hirer. 
' For what loss must a hirer pay? What is the extent of the duty of the 
bailee for hire? Abu placed flocks at Rumnia, and Shabu, who was an 
errant robber, took them away. Although Abu proved that this was the 
case, R. Na’hman held him responsible, etc. A single wolf’s coming among 
the flock is not considered an accident. A robbery is considered an accident. 
A natural death is an accident, but not if it is caused by cruelty. A gratui- 
tous bailee has the right to make a stipulation that in case of loss he shall be 








— 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. xiii 


freed from taking an oath. A stipulation made contrary to that which is 
written in the Scripture is of no avail. A bailee for hire may stipulate that 
he shall be equal to a borrower. But how shall a stipulation of this kind be 
made verbally, only? . ‘ : ‘ ‘ , P ; ‘ 230-248 


CHAPTER VIII. 


MisHnas /. TO JV. If one borrows a cow, and at the same time hires or 
borrows its owner, etc. There are four kinds of bailees, etc. Whence do 
we deduce all this? How do we know that he is responsible in case of con- 
fiscation also? There is no responsibility when the owner works together 
with the borrowed article. (Expl., see 252.) If one tells his messenger that 
he shall substitute him in service to his neighbor, together with his cow, 
how is the law if the cow breaks or dies while laboring? If one borrows 
another’s slave and cow, how is the law? What should a husband who 
uses the estate of his wife be considered—a borrower or a hirer? If the 
body of the animal becomes lean because of the labor, how is the law? 
Maraimar b. Hanina hired mules from Huzai, and the former overworked 
them, and they died, etc. If one borrowed a cow for half a day and for the 
other half a day he hires it, etc. If one has borrowed a cow, and the owner 
sends it to him by his son, slave, or messenger, or even by the same persons 
of the borrower, and it dies while on the road? If one borrows a hatchet ; 
if he has done some work with it, he acquires title to it for the time bor- 
rowed. Is the law concerning an ordinary man equal to that of the sanc- 
tuary? If one exchanges an ass for a cow, and it brought forth young. If 
one possesses two male slaves or two fields, one large and one small, and 
the buyer claims: I bought the large one, etc. . . ‘ 249-264 

MISHNAS V. TO ZX. If one sold out his olive trees for fuel, and there were 
still bad olives on them. Olive trees which were overflooded, taken out and 
planted in another’s field, etc. If one has planted trees in a field belonging 
to another without the consent of the owner. If one has rebuilt a ruin of 
one’s neighbor without his consent. If one rents a house (without appoint- 
ing the time) in the rain season, etc. All the terms are fixed only for giving 
notice. This notice is to be given by the owner of the house as well as by 
the tenant. The owner of the house is obliged to give to the tenant a door 
bolt, a lock, etc. However, things which can be done by any one the tenant 
has to furnish himself. Whose duty is it to furnish a mezuzah? The ma- 
nure belongs to the owner, etc. If the year was made a leap year the tenant 
reaps the benefit of the intercalation. However, if he rented him the house 
monthly, the intercalation belongs tothe owner. In an agreement, which is to 
be considered, the first expression, or the last ? If the renter says : I have paid; 
and the owner claims: I have not received it, who of them must bring evidence? 
If one has rented out a house for ten years, and has signed the lease without 
a date, etc. Ifa man rents out a house and it falls, etc, . i 264-272 


CHAPTER IX. 

MISHNAS 7. TO JV. One who hires a field must do as it is customary in 
that country, etc. If the stipulation was made on wine, etc. They must 
also prepare together the sticks needed for the vineyard for the next year. 
In Babylon there is a custom that the gardener is not given any straw. If 


xiv SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


one hires a field and it was a dry place, or a group of trees, and thereafter 
the spring ceases to flow, etc. If the hirer told him: Rent to me this dry 
field, etc. If one has undertaken to work up a field and he has neglected to 
do so. Mair, Jehudah, Hillel, Jehoshua, and Jose, these considered the 
language of the common people legal (although it was not in accordance 
with the enactment of the sages). If one lends money to some one, he has 
no right to pledge him through the court for more than he owes him. 
Rabina used to double the amount in the marriage contract, etc. There 
was one who undertook to work up a field, and he said: Should I neglect, I 
will give you one thousand zuz, etc. There was a man who undertook a 
field for poppy, sowing with wheat, and finally the wheat was worth more 
than poppy. Ifone has given articles for business without any stipulation, and 
took from him two notes, etc. Ifthe gardener did not want to weed the field, 
saying : I will give you your due, he must not be listened to. . 273-279 

MIsHNAS V. TO ZX. If one took a field in partnership and it was not pro- 
ductive. If one hires a field and the locusts destroyed it, or it was burned. 
If that year was a year of destruction or a year without rain, etc. If this 
happened once, he has to sow it the second time, etc. If one hires a field 
for ten kur wheat per annum, and the products are poor. There was a 
man who hired a vineyard for ten barrels of wine, and thereafter the wine 
became sour. If one takes a field for sowing barley, he must not sow 
wheat in it, etc. The explanation of Deut. xxviii. 3-6. Thirteen advan- 
tages can be gained by taking the early morning meal, viz., etc. Get up 
early in the morning and eat, in the summer, because of the heat; and in the 
winter, because of the cold? The advices given by R. Jehudah to the land- 
surveyor about measuring land, trenches, and the space for anchoring. 
Correct thyself first, and then others. All the inhabitants of the city must 
contribute to the repairing of the wall of the city if it is destroyed. If one 
takes possession of a dock, he is a rascal. If one takes possession of a 
field which was placed between two brothers or partners, it is considered a 
piece of assurance. To a presented estate-the right of preémption does not 
apply, etc. Toa pledged estate, and if it is sold for taxes, or for the sup- 
port of a widow, or for burial, this law does not apply. If one hires a field 
for a few years (less than seven), he must not sow flax in it. R. Papa hired 
fields for pasture, and some trees sprouted in them, etc. Because you are 
descendants of frail people, you speak frail words. Joseph had a planter 
who planted all his trees for half product, and he died and left five sons-in- 
law, etc. The planter of Rabbina did damage and was discharged ; and he 
came to complain to Rabha, etc. There was a planter who said: ‘“ Give 
me what I am entitled to of the improvements, as I want to go to Palestine.” 
There was one who pledged his vineyard for ten years, and it became old 
in eight years. There was a note in which was written the year without a 
_ number, etc. If the gardener claims: ‘I worked for the half,” and the 
owner says for a third, who should be trusted? If orphans claim: ‘ We 
have made the improvements on this estate,” and the creditor claims: “ It 
was improved by your deceased father,” for whom is it. to bring evi- 
dence? . A ; ‘ : ‘ , ; . , ‘ j 279-295 

MIsHNAS X. TO X/V. If one hires a field for the whole sabbatic season 
for seven hundred zuz, the sabbatic year is included. A day-laborer has to 











SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. Xv 


collect his money the whole night after that day, etc. The transgression 
of this commandment comes and ceases with the first morning. One who 
withholds wages transgresses the commandments of five verses, etc. The 
commandment: ‘In the same day you shall give his wage,” and also the 
negative, “‘ There shall not abide . . . until morning,” applies to men, 
cattle, and vessels. To a proselyte who promised not to worship idols and 
not to commit adultery, but not to conform to other Jewish laws, the com- 
mandment applies. One who withholds wages is considered as if he would 
take out the soul. If the storekeeper or the money-changer failed to pay 
him, may he return his claim to the owner or not? Is piece-work subject 
to that law or not? Ifacreditor has to pledge his debtor, he may do so 
only by court, etc. If things belonging to a debtor are to be sold out, 
has the court to consider which should be sold and which left to him, or is 
all to be sold out? If one lends money to his neighbor, he has no right to 
pledge him, is not obliged to return, transgresses all the commandments 
which are in the Scripture concerning [pledging]—what does this mean? If 
the pledge was returned and the borrower died, etc. One who pledges a 
nether and upper millstone transgresses a negative commandment and is 
guilty for two articles. There was a man who pledged a butcher knife from 
his debtor, etc. . . : ‘ ‘ . 4 R : ; 295-307 


CHAPTER X. 


MisHNAS 7. TO VZ__ If one owns a house, the upper chamber of which 
belongs to another, and it falls. If the attic was ruined, and the owner of 
the house declined to repair it. When the tenant goes to dwell in the 
lower apartment, must the owner vacate it for the tenant, or should they 
dwell together? Must the party doing the damage remove the cause of it, 
or must the injured party remove the cause of the damage? One is re- 
sponsible for damage done to his fellow by things which come directly from 
him (though it is the obligation of every one to keep aloof from damaging 
things). A house with an attic, belonging to two persons, which becomes 
ruined ; the owner of the upper chamber requires the rebuilding, and the 
owner of the house refuses, etc. The same is the case with an olive-press 
which was placed under a garden, etc. A wall or a tree which falls sud- 
denly on a public thoroughfare and causes damage, etc. What time is 
fixed for such a case bythe court? The same is the case with a laborer 
who was told by his employer to take the articles with which he was engaged 
for payment. Whether looking gives title to an ownerless article or not, the 
Tanaim differ. One must not place his manure upon a public ground, un- 
less it is immediately taken away by those who want to use it. If a hewer 
of stones has transferred them to the polisher, and they cause damage while 
under his control, the latter is responsible. When two gardens were 
placed one above the other, and some herbs were grown between them, the 
upper one may use that which he can reach with his hand, provided he 
does not exert himself to reach them. This was reported to the King 
Sabura. ; . j é ’ : , , bi Lidtes - 307-316 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


TRACT BABA BATHRA (LAST GATE). 


CHAPTER I. 


MISsHNAS /. TO ///. In case of dividing partnerships in a yard, where and 
of what the wall shall be built. Is overlooking another’s property considered 
injurious ? Of what size the yard must be to be fit for division. May a prayer- 
house be taken apart before the new building is ready? The legend of 
Herod the great with Simeon b. Shatuh. How Herod built the Temple 
without the consent of the Roman government. Concerning partitions, fences 
in partners’ gardens, and valleys. May or may not one be compelled to join 
in the expenses of fences if one’s estate is surrounded by his neighbor’s on 
three sides? If there is a wall, and one of the owners claims that his neigh- 
bor did not bear his share of the expense. A debtor who says: I paid my 
debt before due. If the plaintiff demanded his money long after due. He 
who claims, ‘‘I have never borrowed,” is to be considered as if he should 
say, ‘‘I have never paid.” How and where is a parapet to be made and of 
what size? If there were two courtyards one upon the other; there were 
two tenants, and the roof of the lower one sank ; there was one who built a 
wall against the window of his neighbor, etc. Two brothers divided a 
bequest, a palace and a fine garden, and the latter built a wall on the edge 
of the garden. There was a note belonging to ine against which the 
other party showed a receipt, . ; ‘ 1-16 

MISHNA /V. The sharing in the building of a gate to a courtyard as well 
as toacity wall. Who are obliged to pay taxes and duties of a city? Rabbi 
opened his barns of grain in the years of famine, etc. How long must one 
dwell in a city to be taxed? Charity must be collected by two persons and 
distributed by three. May one be pledged or not for charity? Who of the 
poor must be investigated before support, and who supported immediately 
without inquiry? What about one who begged from door to door? The 
_ virtue of charity equals the sum of the virtues of all the other commandments 
together. ‘I was told by the child who was corrected by his mother,” etc. 
The one who is doing charity secretly is greater than Moses our master. 
How is the verse, Prov. xxi. 21, to be understood? Whosoever makes it his 
business to do charity will be blessed with sons having wisdom, wealth, etc. 
The discussion of Aqiba with Tarnusruphus. As the yearly household ex- 
penses for one are appointed (in Heaven) on each Rosh Hashana, so are his 

vil 


mo 








— - 
————- 


Vili SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


losses. Grace is charity which nears the redeeming, etc. How may the 
horn of Israel be raised ? Rabban Johanan b, Zakkai questioned his disciples 
as to the meaning of the verse, Prov. xiv. 34, etc. Iphra Hurmiz, the mother 
of King Sabur, sent four hundred dinars for charity to R. Ammi, etc. If one 
bought a tract of land, however small, he is considered a citizen immedi- 
ately, s , ; j 16-32 

MISHNA I, Partners cannot SY cael etlie to divide: This is the 
rule: If, after division, each part retains its former name, then one can com- 
pel his partner to divide. A yard must be divided in accordance with the 
doors, etc. The four ells which are allowed for each door are for unloading. 
If one of the inhabitants of an alley desires to open the door leading from 
his yard to another alley. Inhabitants of alleys who desire to make doors to 
the street may be prevented by the public. Prophecy was taken away from 
the prophets and was given to the wise, to lunatics, and children (how this 
is to be understood). There was a man who bought an estate near to the 
estate of his father-in-law (who had no male children). The law, ‘“ Either 
you concede or I concede,” when is it applied? The case of female slaves 
whom Huna bequeathed to his sons. May or may not the books of the 
Bible be bound together ? What must the size of the holy scrolls be? What 
was placed in the ark, and how. The order of the Prophets, and who wrote 
them? Who was Job—an Israelite or a Gentile—and at what time did he 
exist, if he existed at all? The legends about Satan and Job. Satan was 
more afflicted than Job himself, etc. Satan and Peninnah both intended (with 
their accusations) to please Heaven, etc. The explanation of the passages 
addressed out of the storm wind, etc., etc. Why was not Job doubly rewarded 
with daughters, as he was with sons and with all his property? There are 
three to whom the Holy One, blessed be He, gave a taste of the world to 
come in this world. There are six whom the angel of death has not domi- 
nated. There are four who died without sin, ‘ 4 ; ; 32-54 


CHAPTER II. 


MisHNAS JZ, TO //Z. How much space is to be left between one’s property 
and another’s? For whom is it to remove himself from supposed injury, 
the supposed injurer or him who would be injured? One must remove a 
pond for steeping flax from herbs, garlic from onions, and mustard from 
bees. Three spans space, and plastered with lime—are both needed, or 
does one of them suffice? Is one allowed to void his urine near the wall of 
his neighbor? Under what circumstances one may or may not place an oven 
in a lower story of a house. Can one of the partners in a yard prevent his 
partner from establishing a store in it, or not? At what age a child may be 
taken to school. The enactment of Joshua b. Gamla concerning teaching of 
children. In what circumstances the claim,“ You are cutting off my livelihood,” 
applies? ‘I doubt whether an inhabitant of one alley can prevent one of 
another alley from competing with him.” The legend of R. Dimi’s dry 
figs. How much space is to be left from one wall to an opposite one, and 
how much to a window, . : . . 55-67 

MisHNAS /V. TO X/7Z. To what distance a ladder must be removed from 
one’s neighbor's pigeon-coop. The distance between a pigeon-coop and the 
city. If a case which we should judge by a majority would be different if 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. ix 


according to proximity, how is it to be judged? How much space is to be 
left to the city when planting a fruit tree outside ; and how much to a wild 
one, to a carob, and to a sycamore. How much to barns, to cemeteries, and 
to tanneries. The Shekhinah occupies every place. The world is like a 
balcony without the fourth wali, etc. On what side of the city a tannery may 
be placed. He who desires to increase his wisdom shall recite his prayers 
towards the south, etc. Toa well a distance of twenty-five ells must be 
left when planting a tree, etc. One must not plant a tree near his neighbor's 
field, etc. A tree which bears fruit to the measure of a kab is forbidden to 
be cut down. A tree which is within sixteen ells of the boundary of another’s 
estate is considered robbery, etc. If the branches of a tree are inclined 
towards another’s field, what is to be done? The branches of a tree which 
overhang public ground may be cut off, so that a camel with its rider may 
pass freely, : ; ‘ : ; : i ; : . 67-82 


CHAPTER III. 


MISHNA /. The law of occupancy—to what it does and does not apply. 
Whence is it deduced? What time is needed for it, and how a protest 
against it should be made. Must the three years of hazakah be interrupted ? 
Who testifies as to the occupancy of houses? The many cases of occupied 
houses which the owners claimed, brought before different rabbis of the 
Amoraim who decided differently. If one claims, ‘‘ It was from my parents,” 
and the other claims the same. There was one who said: ‘I possessed a 
document but lost the true one, and this is a correct copy.” There was 
another case similar concerning a hundred zuz in cash. It was murmured 
among people that Rabha b. Sharshum had appropriated land belonging to 
orphans, and Abayi sent for him. One snatched a piece of silver from his 
neighbor and the case was brought before R. Ami. There was a boat about 
which two parties quarrelled, each claiming that it was his. If each of the 
parties claim: ‘‘ This estate belonged to my parents.” If witnesses testify 
that the plaintiff has loaded a basket of fruit from this field on the shoulders 
of the defendant, the hazakah is effected immediately. Is ploughing a haza- 
kah, or not? If one has made a hazakah on the trees and another upon 
the ground, has the owner of the trees a share in the ground? . . 83-100 

MIsHNAS J//, AND ///. There are three lands concerning the law of haza- 
kah. If one runs away from a city because of crime, and one occupies his 
estate, the law of hazakah applies. How should one protest? Is a protest 
not in one’s presence to be considered? Under what circumstances the 
court announces to the defendant that his property will be sold. How is it 
when he told them to write a deed of gift without an explanation ? A haza- 
kah to which there is no claim is not to be considered. How so? What 
happened to Anan and Kahana, who placed their fences on others’ estates. 
If the father has consumed one year and his son two, or vice versa, or each 
of them one year and the buyer from them one year, is it considered a 
hazakah? The law of hazakah does not apply to specialists, farmers, etc. _ 
May one who is supposed to be interested in a case be a witness? Has one 
a right to say: ‘‘I cut myself off from this estate entirely”? If A has robbed 
B of a field and has sold it to C, then D comes with a claim, has B then any 
right to be a witness for C? Ifone sold a field to his neighbor without 





x SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


security, he has no right to qualify as a witness concerning it. The an- 
nouncement of Rabha or Papa about an article which a Gentile takes away 
from an Israelite. If one has given his garment to a specialist, the latter 
claiming two zuz and the owner one. If one has exchanged his utensils for 
another’s in the house of a specialist, etc. ‘‘Come and I will tell you what 
the swindlers of Pumbeditha are doing.” May a gardener be taken as a 
witness in case of a claim, or not? A robber—neither he nor his son has 
hazakah, but his grandson has. A specialist or a gardener who has ceased 
his profession, a son who was separated from his father, and a woman who 
was divorced—all of them are considered, in a case of hazakah, with men 
in general. If one sold his estate by duress, the sale is valid. Why so? 
Tabba hanged Pappi on a tree, to compel him to sell him his field. If wit- 
nesses testify they signed a note whose amount was not yet paid, but was 
prepared by the borrower in case he should find some one who would make 
him the loan. ‘I did so only with the intention of pleasing my husband, 
but not with the intention of selling it.” Is there no occupancy in the estate 
of a married woman? If one borrowed from his bondsman and encumbered 
his estate for him by a document, and afterwards he freed him? One must 
not accept bailments from women, slaves, or children. If one who was the 
business man of the house, ang the bills of sale and notes were in his name, 
claims: ‘ All this is my own ”—what should be the evidence? Concerning 
a gift or an inheritance of brothers. Is it not the duty of every Israelite to 
save the property of his neighbor from damage when seeing danger is near ? 
There cannot be a better hazakah than lifting up, as this act gives title to 
one in everything. The estate of idolaters, if sold to an Israelite, and the 
latter has not made a hazakah on it, it is like a desert. If an Israelite buys 
a field from a Gentile and another Israelite comes and takes possession of it 
(before the bill of sale reaches the buyer). ‘I was told by the Exilarch 
Ugqban the following three things: (a2) That the law of the government 
should be respected as a law of the Torah,” etc., : ; 100-134 

MisHNAS JV. TO X. What, and under what circumstances: collusive wit- 
nesses have to pay. If there were three brothers and one stranger. There 
is a difference in usage of articles—in some cases hazakah applies, and in 
some not. Does this rule always hold good? The wonderful sayings and 
acts of Bnaha. Hazakah does not apply to movable pipes attached to drains, 
etc. What is to be considered an Egyptian window ? To an enclosure the 
size of a span in width, hazakah applies. One must not open windows to 
the yard even when he is a partner in it. One must not open, in a yard 
belonging to partners, a door or window opposite that of one’s partner, etc. 
One must not make a hole in public ground. ‘There were enclosures from 
R. Ammi’s property facing an alley,” etc. When the second Temple was 
destroyed, many of Israel separated themselves from eating meat and drink- 
ing wine. Such a thing must not be decreed, which the majority of the con- 
gregation could not endure, ‘ ; ; . ‘ : : 134-146 


CHAPTER IV. 


Misunas J. TO V. If one sells a house unconditionally. If one sells a 
property, he must write in the bill of sale: ‘I reserve nothing of it for my- 
self.” If E ownsa field adjoining A’s field from east to west, and B’s from 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. xi 


north to south, and he comes to sell it, etc. If A and B were partners in a 
field, and A sold his share toC. If one sold a house with the stipulation 
that the upper die¢a (chamber) was reserved for him. If one has sold the 
house to one man and the diefa to another. Title is not given to a well, 
although there is mentioned that one sold the depth and the height. The 
difference between a sale and a gift. If one sold a house, he sold with it the 
door, the bolt and lock, but not the key. If one sold a yard, the houses, 
walls, cellars, and caves are included, but not movable property. If one 
sells a press-house, the sale includes the trough, the press-beam or press- 
Stone, etc., . é 147-158 

MISHNAS VI.T TO IX. If « one seits a s bathe homise the sale does not include 
the boards on the floor. If one sells a town, the sale includes houses, etc., but 
not movable property. If one sells a field, the sale includes the stones which 
are needed for its use. From the passage, Gen. xxxiii, 17, we infer that the 
boundary is sold to the buyer with the field biblically. A depositary who 
claims that he had returned the bailment, etc. In selling a field, if it con- 
tains a well, cistern, etc., they are not included in the sale : 158-166 


CHAPTER V. 


MISHNAS /. TO V. How should one acquire title to a boat? Toa prom- 
issory note title is given by transfer and bill of sale: acquire title to it and to 
all the debts it contains is traditional and also according to common sense. 
A bill of sale to a wagon does not include the mules when not hitched, and 
vice versa. May the amount paid serve as evidence? If one sells an ass, 
the harness is not included. The £umanzi is not included in the harness. 
What does 4humni mean? If one sold a she-ass, its foal is sold; but if a 
cow, the calf is not. If one buys the brood of a pigeon-coop; of a bee-hive. 
If one buys a tree for cutting it down, he must begin a span high from the 
ground ; an inoculated sycamore, three spans; a trunk of sycamores, two. 
If exactly three spans, it is beneficial for the growth of the tree, etc., 167-175 

MisHNaS VJ. To LX, If one buy two trees within his neighbor’s field, the 
ground beneath is not sold ; if three, it is. Concerning the firstfruit offer- 
ings. If the branches were wide-spreading. How much space is to be left 
between the trees in question, that it should be considered the buyer’s? A 
practised act is more important for evidence. How should the ground be- 
longing to the buyer be measured ? If one has sold two trees situated in 
his field and one on the boundary. There are four legal customs concerning 
sales. Ifonesold dark-red wheat and it was found to be white, or vice versa, 
etc. By what acts is title given to fruit and to flax? The vessels of the 
buyer give title to him in every place, except on public ground. There are 
four legal customs concerning sellers, etc. To real estate title is acquired 
by money, deed, or hazakah ; and to personal property title is given by 

drawing only. Toa thing which is usually lifted up, title is given by lifting ; 
and usually drawn, by drawing. If one hires a servant to work for him in 
the barn for one dinar a day, with the stipulation that he shall work for him 
for the same price in the harvest-time. If one sold wine or oil, and it be- 
comes dearer orcheaper, . 4 175-190 

MISHNAS X. AND XZ. If one penis his little son to the stotekceper with a 

pundiun (dupondius), but the child loses the issar and breaks the glass. If 





xii _ SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


one take a vessel from a specialist, to examine it, he is responsible for an ac- 
cident. The wholesaler has to clean his measures once within thirty days. 
Must overweight be given, and how much? The punishment for false meas- 
uring is harder than for adultery. It is harder for the cheating of a com- 
moner than for the cheating of the sanctuary. The scales must be hanging 
three spans in the air, etc. Weights must not be made of tin, lead, cassit- 
erite, or other kinds of metal. One must not keep in his house an unjust 
measure, even if he uses it for achamber. If the elders of the city want to 
enlarge the measures, it must not be more than a sixth of them. From the 
verse Ezek, xlv. 12 may be inferred three things, etc. ‘‘ Those who forestall 
fruit,” etc.—who are meant thereby? There must not be exported from Pal- 
estine things by which a livelihood is made. It may be prayed by blowing 
of horns even on Sabbath, when business becomes dull. One must not emi- 
grate from Palestine to other provices, unless the price of grain has increased, 
etc. ‘‘When Abraham our father departed from this world, all the great 
men of the nations stood up in a file and said,” etc. ‘I remember when a 
child used to break a piece of carob, threads of honey would leak out,” etc., 


190-203 
HAGADAH. 


The well-known legends of Rabba b. b. Hana: Waves, Hurnim ben 
Lilith, roebuck of one day, alligator. The fish which destroyed sixty cities. 
The fish with two fins. About the leviathan, male and female. The ban- 
quet of the upright in the world to come. The bird with her head in the 
sky. The geese from which a whole river of fat was running, The Arabian 
merchant who accompanied Rabba in the desert, and showed him the dead 
of the desert at the time of Moses. The place where Korach with his com- 
pany was swallowed up, where the earth and the sky meet, etc. What R. 
Johanan has to tell. Jehudah of Mesopotamia. What happened with Elie- 
zer and Jehoshua while on the ship. What Huna b. Nathan told. The 
canopies (chugas) for each upright in the world tocome. The ten chugas 
made for Adam the first in paradise. About Hiram the King of Tyre who 
claimed to be a God. The increase of Jerusalem in the future, . 203-213 


APPENDIX. 


Usucapio in the Roman Law ; ‘ ° . ° ° . 214 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


TRACT BABA BATHRA (LAST GATE). 


(PART II) 


CHAPTER VI. 


MISHNAS /. TO VJ//. If one sold fruit and it did not sprout, or an ox 
and thereafter it was found a goring one. May the trouble of slaughtering 
and selling the meat be taken into consideration? If an ox was found killed 
at the side of another pasturing one. Between majority and hazakah, 
which should be preferred (see footnote p. 217)? Ali hold the theory of 
majority. If one delivered wheat for grinding to fine meal, but the miller 
did not properly grind it; or if meal were delivered to a baker and he did 
not bake it properly. If one buys fruit, he has to accept a quarter of a kabh 
of dust on asaah. If he sold a cellar of wine, he must accept ten harsh 
barrels on each hundred. If wheat, a quarter of a kabh of peas; if barley, 
a quarter of chaff; if lentils, of dust. If the buyer has found more than the 
above prescribed quantity. The difference betweena cellar and ¢Zs cellar, 
and also if for keeping was added. May or may not wine which is sold in 
retail stores be considered products of the vine? If one sells wine, and it 
turns sour. Which wine is considered an old one. If one is proud, he is 
not tolerated even by his family. A commoner who disguises himself in the 
garment of a scholar cannot enter into the habitation of the Holy One, etc. 
If one sells, or a contractor undertakes to build, a wedding or a widow 
house. A groom who resides in the house of his father-in-law is lighter 
than bran, and still lighter is an invited guest who brings with him an 
uninvited one, and still lighter is he who answers before hearing the 
question. If one wishes to build a stable. If one possesses a well, situated 
on the other side of his neighbor’s house, or a garden inside of his neigh- 
bor’s. If there was a public thoroughfare through one’s field, etc. If one 
sells a place for digging a grave, or an undertaker makes a place for one, 
the inside of the cave must be four by six, etc., . 4 ; , 215-230 


CHAPTER VII. 


MisHnas /, TO V/. I sell you earth of the size whereon one kur can 
be sown, etc., or measured with a line. In case the buyer has to make 
return, it shall be in money. If the seller said ‘‘the size of a kur,” without 

xiii 





xiv SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


any addition, how is the law? “I sell you the estate,” with a measure- 
ment a trifle more or less; or, “this estate . . . with its marks and 
boundaries.” If two versions of the seller contradict each other, which is to 
be considered ? The difference in opinion of the Amoraim in the explanation 
of Mishna IV. R. Papa bought an estate said to be twenty saahs—after it 
was measured it was found only fifteen. To two brothers who had divided 
their inheritance came a third brother (of whose existence they were not 
previously aware). If brothers divided their inheritance, and a creditor of 
their father came and took away the share of one of them. If the members 
of the court differ in the amount, upon appraisement brought before them. 
“T sell you the half of the field”; ‘‘ The southern half of this field,”etc.—the 
seller has to give space for a partition, etc., : ‘ ; : 231-240 


CHAPTER VIII. 


MIsHNA J/. There are those who bequeath, and also inherit; others who 
inherit but do not bequeath; and also those who neither bequeath nor 
inherit. The passage [Num. xxvii. 8] in the Scripture does not correspond 
with all that is taught above. Who were the grandfathers of Pinchos ben 
Elazar on his mother’s side. If one is about to marry, it is advisable for him 
to investigate the character of the bride’s brothers. It is better for one to 
hire himself to Abhada Zarah (idolatry) than to rely upon people that shall 
support him. Abhada Zarah means “idolatry.” Literally, however, it is 
‘‘a strange service.” Is the tribe of the mother’s side equal to the tribe of 
the father’s side? What happened to Janai and Jehudah the second when 
they came together? The husband from his wife. Whence is this deduced ? 
Whence came Pinchos ben Elazar to have a mountain which his father did 
not possess? Whence is it deduced that the husband does not inherit the 
estate to which his wife during her life is only heir apparent? In the case of 
a gift with the ceremony of a sudarium, whether ia or sick, what time 
may be given him to retract, d : 241-255 

MisHNAS J/. TO JV. The order ot inheritance is thus, etc. If one 
decides that a daughter shall inherit, when there is a daughter of a son, even 
if he were a prince in Israel, he must not be listened to. What happened to 
Rabban Johanan with the Sadducean? ‘‘The daughters of Z’lophchod 
have inherited,” etc. The land of Israel was divided among the ascendants 
from Egypt, and not among their children. Joshua and Caleb inherited the 
shares of the spies. Whence is this deduced? May or may not a disciple 
be honored in the presence of his master? Why is the order in mentioning 
the daughters of Z’lophchod different in the Scripture? If a woman 
marries at less than twenty years of age, she bears children until sixty ; but 
when she marries after forty, she does not then bear children. There were 
seven men who encompassed the whole world since its creation until now, 
etc. How was the land of Israel divided—into twelve parts, or among the 
people severally ? The land of Israel will be divided among thirteen tribes. 
A son and a daughter are equal concerning inheritance, etc. How shall 
the double share of the first-born be counted—double as to each brother or 
as to the whole estate. What is the reason that Jacob took away the privi- 
lege of the first-born from Reuben and gave it to Joseph? Jacob's children, 
who came to Egypt, in sum you find seventy ; however, if you will number 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. XV 


them in detail, you will find ‘only sixty-nine. In the case of inheritance of 
a promissory note, the first-born took a double share, etc. A first-born does 
not take a double share ina loan. The Palestinians, however, say he does. 
What is to be done with an estate bequeathed for life only, which the in- 
heritor has sold? A first-born does not inherit property to come in the 
future, and the same is the case with a husband. If the first-born protests 
when his brothers come to improve the estate left by their father, 255-271 
MisHNAS V. TO VII. A will which is against the law of the Scripture 
must not be listened to; however, if it is as a gift, it may. ‘‘ My son is my 
first-born,” he takes a double share ; ‘‘ My son is a first-born,” he does not. 
‘*Go to Sh’kh’at my son, who is a first-born, whose spittle cures eyes.” If 
two wives of one have born twosons in a secret place which was dark, and 
it is not known who was born first, they may write a power of attorney each 
to the other, etc. If one was known to the people as a first-born, and his 
father said of another, etc. A creditor may collect from bondsmen belong- 
ing to orphans for their father’s debt. A second-cousin, a third-cousin, may 
be a witness (according to the law). If one says, “This child shall inherit 
all,” or, ‘‘ My wife shall take an equal share with one of my sons,” he is to 
be listened to. If the word “gift” was mentioned in the beginning, etc. 
How is this to be illustrated? If one wrote, ‘‘ The field on the east side . 
shall be given to A, and B shall inherit that on the west side,” is title given 
ornot? All that is said in one speech is valid, except as to idolatry. If 
one says: “A shall inherit my estate,” and he has a daughter, he said noth- 
ing ; or, ‘‘A shall inherit my estate instead of my daughter,” or, ‘‘ My 
daughter instead of my son”—how is the law? A Halakha must not be 
taken for granted from a discussion or from an act, unless one is told to do 
so. Rabbi said: My youth made me presume to contradict Nathan the 
Babylonian. If one bequeath all his estates to his wife, he makes her a 
guardian only. (All that is said above treats of a will by a sick man.) 
How is it if this was done while in good health? If one has bequeathed 
all his estates to his sons, but has left to his wife a small portion of ground. 
How is it in a similar case when one is in good health? A sick person 
who has bequeathed all his estate to a stranger, it is to be investigated if the 
latter is in some way fit to be called a direct heir. An inheritance has no 
interruption, and goes direct to the heirs of the inheritor. The rabbis con- 
demned one who bequeathed his estate to strangers, leaving out his chil- 
dren. What happened to Shamai the elder with Jonathan b. Uziel, 
271-297 
MisHNnaAs V///, TO X//, “ This is my son,” he is to be trusted ; “‘ My 
brother,” he is not. If one testify he has divorced his wife, he is to be 
trusted. If a short period of time, can one’s testimony be divided—that 
for the past he should not be trusted, and for the future he should? Ifa 
‘sick person said to witnesses: ‘‘ Write, and give a mana to so and so,” and 
before they did so he dies. How is it if the same was said by one in good 
health ? If one wishes to bequeath his estate to his children, etc. How if 
he has written “from to-day and after my death”? If a sudarium is men- 
tioned, no matter what version was used, nothing is needed to be added. 
‘‘My estates are bequeathed to you, and after you to B,” etc, Whois 
called a crafty villain? Toa gift presented by one who is dying, at what 
time is title given? There was a woman who had a tree on the estate of 





xvi SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


R. Bibbi b. Abayi, etc. If A said to B, “I give you this ox as a present, 
with the stipulation that you shall return it to me.” Ifa sick man said, “I 
have a mana with so and so,” the witnesses may write this, etc. The Halakha 
prevails that it must not be feared the court will err. The father has the 
right to gather the products bequeathed to his son, etc. If he left grown-up 
and minor sons, the grown ones have no right to derive any benefit on 
account of the minors, etc. How is it if a woman has borrowed money, 
consumed it, and thereafter she married without paying her debt, and 
brought estates with her at marriage? ‘The following is not to be re- 
turned in the jubilee year,” etc. (p. 310). In some respects the husband 
should be considered as an heir, and in some respects as a buyer, 297-311 


CHAPTER IX. 


MISHNAS /. AND //. If one leave sons and daughters, if the inheritance is 
of great worth, the daughters must be supported from it ; if a moderate one, 
the daughters must be supported, and the sons may go a-begging. If the 
estates were of great worth, but there was a promissory note in the hands of 
a creditor. If the deceased left a widow and a daughter, and the estates left 
could support only one of them. If one leave sons, daughters, and an her- 
maphrodite. ‘If my pregnant wife shall bear a male,” etc. A child of one 
day inherits and bequeaths, etc. All that was said here was taught in the 
city of Sura. In Pumbeditha, however, it was taught otherwise, etc. One 
said, ‘‘1 bequeath my estate to the children who shall be born of you by me,” 
etc. . One said, ‘‘ My estate shall be for you and your children.” And R. 
Joseph decided: One half of the estate belongs to her, and the other half 
to her children. There was one who had sent home pieces of silk, without 
any order to which member of his household they belonged, _ 312-321 

MisHNAS ///. TO V//. If one left grown-up and minor sons, and the 
former improved the estate, etc. If one has made the wedding of his son in 
one of his houses, the son acquires title to the house, etc. Three things the 
rabbis enacted as laws without giving any reason. Brothers partners in busi- 
ness ; if one of them was taken by the government to work, etc. If one of the 
brothers took two hundred zuz to begin the study of the Torah or to learn 
a trade, etc. Wedding presents may be replevined by the court. If one 
has betrothed a woman and dies before marriage, a virgin collects two 
hundred and a widow one hundred zuz, Five things were said about wed- 
ding presents : (a) They may be collected by the court ; (4) they are returned 
at the time when the donator marries, etc. Who is like unto a wealthy man 
who is known to be rich by his many cattle and estates, etc.? The different 
explanations of Prov. xv. 15. If one sends presents to the home of his 
betrothed’s father, to the value of one hundred manas, and has partaken of the 
betrothal meal, even for one dinar, they are not to be returned. How is it 
when the presents have improved, etc.? Ifa sick person had bequeathed all 
his estates to strangers, etc. Three things Achithophel charged his sons, etc. 
If a sick person said: ‘‘ A shall reside in such a house,” or, ‘‘ B shall con- 
sume the products of such and such atree,” etc. A sick person who has 
bequeathed all of his estates to strangers, it must be investigated how was 
the case. If asick person has bequeathed all his estates to strangers and 
thereafter is cured. The expressions, ‘‘ He shall take,” ‘shall be rewarded.” 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. XVil 


How shall it be done if he expresses himself: ‘‘ A is the one who shall derive 
benefit from my estates”? Ifa sick person has confessed, ‘‘I owe so much 
to so and so,” shall it be taken for granted, etc.? In five cases the act of a 
gift is not considered unless the bequeather writes ‘‘all my estates.” What 
is considered estates? How is the case with the Holy Scrolls—as they 
must not be sold, are they considered estate or not, etc.? The mother of” 
Rami b. Hama bequeathed to him her estates on one evening. The mother 
of R. Amram the Pious possessed a bundle of deeds, etc. Concerning a 
gift in part of a sick person—in one respect it is equal to a gift by one in 
good health, etc. A sick person who has bequeathed all his estates to 
strangers, although made with a sudarium, if he was cured he may retract. | 
If one bequeathed first to one and thereafter to another, etc., . 321-345 
MisHNA V/Z/. If in the deed it was not mentioned that he was sick, and 
he claims that he was sick at the time of writing and had a right to retract. 
What kind of evidence is required, etc. It happened in the city of Bene 
Brack, that one sold the estate of his father and died; and his relatives com- 
plained that he was not of age when he died. What must be the age of one 
who has the right to sell the estates left him by his father? How is he to be 
considered during the nineteenth year—nineteen, which is still not of age, or 
twenty? There was one lad less than twenty, who had sold the estate of his 
father. Ifa lad of thirteen years and one day presented a gift to some one, 
his act is valid. If one divides his estates, verbally, no matter if he was in 
good health or dangerously sick, according to R. Elazar to real estate title 
is given by money, etc. It happened with an inhabitant of the city of Mruni, 
who was in Jerusalem, that he possessed much valuable property which he 
desired to present to different persons, etc. If it happens that a sick person 
divides his estates verbally on the Sabbath, etc. Suppose a house falls upon 
A and his father or on any persons, that one of them has to be bequeather 
and the other inheritor, and it is not known who dies first. If ason has sold 
his share of the inheritance of his father to some one, and dies while the 
father was still alive, and thereafter his father died, the son of the seller has 
a right to take away the goods from the buyer. And this is a complicated 
case in the law of money matters. A son inherits from his mother when 
he is already in the grave, so that his brothers from his father’s side should 
inherit from him, . ; : : ‘ i ; ‘ ; : 345-357 


CHAPTER X. 


Misunas /. TO V. A simple get (document) the witnesses must sign at 
the end of the contents. A folded one, however, the witnesses must sign 
outside, etc. In what place should the witnesses sign a folding document ? 
If the signatures of the witnesses were separated by a space of two lines from 
. the writing, the document is invalid; is it meant with their usual space or 
without? There was a folding document which came before Rabbi, and he 
said: ‘‘ There is no date to it,” etc. All must be done as is customary in the 
country. If there was only one witness to a simple, etc. If in the document 
was written, ‘hundred zuz,” which make twenty selas, etc. If on the top of 
the document was written ‘‘a mana,” and on the bottom ‘two hundred 
zuz,” or vice versa, etc. There was a document in which was written, ‘‘six 
hundred and a zuz,” etc. There was a toll-master of a bridge who was a 





XVili SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


Jew who said to Abayi: ‘‘ Let the master show me his signature,” etc. A 
divorce may be written by the court for a husband in the absence of his 
wife—the husband must pay the fees. Documents of arbitrating and all 
other acts of mediating by the court must not be written unless both 
parties are present—at the expense of both. There was a receipt approved 
by Jeremiah b. Abba. However, the same woman came into his court to 
claim her marriage contract several years later, etc. If one has paid a part 
of his debt, and deposited his document with some one. If it happened to 
one that a promissory note became erased, he must find witnesses. The 
approval must be written: ‘‘We three, E, F, G, the undersigned, were 
sitting together, and before us was brought by A, the son of B, an erased 
note,” etc. If one comes before the court claiming that he has lost a promis- 
sory note from so and so, etc. If one has presented a gift to his neighbor 
by a deed, if the deed was returned by the beneficiary the gift is considered 
returned. The following is the order of claims before the court. The 
lender comes to the court to complain that the borrower does not pay his 
debt, etc. Concerning deeds, they may write another one without mention- 
ing the responsibility of the seller for the estate, etc. There was a woman 
who gave money to one that he might buy estates for her, etc. If one came 
to claim a field saying that he possesses a deed, and also that it was in his 
possession the years of hazakah, etc. If there was any forgery in the docu- 
ment, or there were incompetent witnesses, the transferring is not con- 
sidered, . : d : : 4 ‘ ; : ; ; 357-379 

MisHnas VJ. To LX. If one has paid a part of his debt, according to 
R. Jehudah the promissory note must be changed. According to R. Jose, 
the lender has to give a receipt for the amount paid. The Halakha prevails 
neither with R. Jehudah nor with R. Jose, etc. If the document was 
written at the date used by the government, and such a date fell on a Sab- 
bath or on the Day of Atonement, etc. It happened with R. Itz’hak b. 
Joseph, who had money with R. Abba, etc. Abba said to his scribe: 
‘* When it shall happen that you have to write a document with a later date, 
you must write as follows: This document was postdated by us for a cer- 
tain reason,” etc. If one holds a promissory note for a hundred zuz, and 
requests that it shall be rewritten in two notes each of fifty zuz, etc. If 
there were two brothers, one rich and one poor, and they inherited from 
their father a bath-house, or an olive-press house, if for business they must 
share equally ; but if for private use, etc. If there are two persons who bear 
one and the same name, they cannot give promissory notes to each other, 
nor to any of the inhabitants. If a promissory note was paid, etc. If one 
(while struggling with death) says to his son: ‘‘ A promissory note among 
the notes I possess is paid, but I do not remember which,” etc. If one 
made a loan to his neighbor through a surety, he must not collect first from 
the surety, etc. Whether a surety has to pay or not, R. Jehudah and R. Jose 
differ, etc. If the surety said: ‘‘Lendtothis man, and Iam the surety,” etc. 
If the expression was, ‘‘Give to him, and I will return you,” then has the 
lender nothing to do with the borrower. There was a judge who trans- 
ferred the estate of the borrower to the lender, before the lender had de- 
manded his money from the borrower, etc. There was a surety for orphans 
who had paid the lender before he notified the orphans. If one was put 
under the ban because he declined to pay his debts. If the promissory 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. xix 


note of the deceased was in the hands of the surety, who claims to have paid 
the lender, etc. There was a surety for a deceased debtor to a heathen, 
who paid the heathen before he had demanded his debt from the orphans. 
If one made himself surety to a woman for a marriage contract, etc. A sick 
person who has consecrated all his estates, and at the same time said: “So 
and so has a mana with me,” he may be trusted. A sick person who said: 
«‘A has a mana with me,” and thereafter the orphans claimed that they have 
paid, they are to be trusted. If one borrows money on a promissory 
note, the lender has a right to collect from encumbered estates. If it hap- 
pen that acreditor sees his debtor in the market, grapples him by the throat, 
and one passes by and says, ‘‘Leave him alone, I will pay,” he is neverthe- 
less free, because the loan was made not upon his surety. Biblically there 
is no difference between a loan on a document and by word of mouth, and 
it should be collected from encumbered estates. A verbal loan is not col- 
lectible—neither from heirs nor from buyers. If the surety signed before 
the signatures, it may be collected from encumbered estates. Only a surety 
in the presence of the court is free from a sudarium, but all others are not, 


379-395 








SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


TRACT SANHEDRIN (SUPREME 
COUNCIL). 


CHAPTER I. 


MIsHNA /, To which cases judges are needed to decide, and to which 
commoners; which three, five, twenty-three, and seventy-one. The Great 
Sanhedrin consisted of seventy-one, and the Small of twenty-three. How many 
a city should contain, that it should be fit fora supreme council. If one 
were known to the majority of the people as an expert, he alone might decide 
civil cases. A permission from the Exilarch holds good for the whole 
country (of Babylon and also for Palestine) ; from the Prince in Palestine, 
for the whole of Palestine and Syria only: he may teach the law, decide 
civil cases, and may also decide upon the blemishes of first-born animals. 
He (a priest) saw a divorced woman and married her, and with this he 
annulled his priesthood. He erred in his opinion—e.g., there were two, 
Tanaim and two Amoraim who differed in a case, and he decided the case 
according to one. There are three Tanaim who differ concerning arbitra- 
tion. When the decision is already given in accordance with the strict law, 
an arbitration cannot take place. May or may not a judge say, “I do not 
want to decide this case” ? and under what circumstances? Is mediation a 
meritorious act, or is it only permitted ? There were many who used to say 
maxims of morality, and Samuel found that they were only repetitions of 
verses in the Scriptures. ‘‘Say unto wisdom, Thou art my sister,” means, if 
the thing is certain to you as that it is prohibited for you to marry your , 
sister, then you may say it; but not otherwise. If one appoints a judge who 
is not fit to be such, he is considered as if he were to plant a grove in Israel. 
The court shall not listen to the claims of one party in the absence of the 
other (in civil cases). ‘‘ You shall judge righteously” means, you shall de- 
liberate the case carefully, and make it just in your mind, and only thereafter 
may you give your decision: ‘“‘For the judgment belongeth to God.” The 
Holy One, blessed be He, said: ‘It is the least for the wicked to take away 
money from one and give it to another illegally,” etc. Is warning needed toa 
scholar? Where is the hint that collusive witnesses are to be punished with 
stripes? Punishment of stripes is not applied to those who do no manual 
labor. The numbers three, five, and seven—to what have they a similarity? 

xi 


xii SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


A year must not be intercalated with one month, except by them who are 
jnvited for it by the Nashi. Since the death of the last prophets—Haggai, 
Zechariah, and Malachi—the Holy Spirit has left Israel, etc. A leap year 
should not be made because of the kids, lambs, etc. For the following three 
things a leap year is made: Because of the late arrival of Spring, etc. A 
leap year must not be made in the years of famine. The year must not 
be intercalary before Rosh Hashana. A leap year must not be made in one 
year for the next. No appointment of a leap year must be because of defile- 
ment. If not for Ben Baba, the law of fines would be forgotten from Israel. 
The legend how Jehudah b. Baba supplied the degree of Rabbi to five (six) 
elders, and by this act he caused the oral law not to be forgotten from Israel. 
The custom of giving degrees must not be used out of Palestine. What 
is to be considered second tithe, of which the value is not known? Rotten 
fruit, etc. ‘‘ Every great matter,” means the matter of a great man. By the 
whole tribe, is meant the head of it. The legend how a battle was decided 
by King David. Whence do we know that it is a duty to appoint judges to 
each tribe? etc. The legend of Eldad and Medad, and what their prophecy 
was. How Moses selected the seventy elders from each tribe, and also the 
payment of the first-born who were not redeemed by Levites. Sentence 
of guilt must be by a majority of two. If all persons of a Sanhedrin are 
accusing, the defendant becomes free. How so? In a city in which the 
following ten things do not exist it is not advisable for a scholar to reside, 
and they are, etc. Of rulers of thousands were six hundred; of hundreds, 
six thousand ; of fifties, twelve thousand ; of tens, sixty thousand—hence the 
total number of the officers in Israel was seventy-eight thousand and six 
hundred, . ‘ 5 ; : R 3 : ; ; : ; I-42 


CHAPTER II. 


MIsHNAS Z. AND J//. The high-priest may judge and be a witness; be 
sudged and witnessed against. A king must not judge, and is not judged ; 
must not be a witness, nor witnessed against. There are cases from which 
one may withdraw himself, and there are others from which he may not.. 
How so? A king must not be a member of the Sanhedrin; nor he and a 
high-priest engage in discussion about a leap year. The legends of three 
pasturers who had a discussion about the month Adar, which the rabbis took 
as a support to establish a leap year. When he (high-priest) goes in the row 
to condole with others, his vice and the ex-high-priest are placed at his right, 
etc. Formerly the custom was for the mourners to stand, and the people to 
pass by, etc. A rowis not less than ten persons, not counting the mourners. 
All agree that if a king has relinquished his honor, it is not relinquished. 
How could David marry two sisters while they were both living? The 
strength of Joseph was moderation on the part of Boas, and the strength of 
the latter was moderation on the part of Palti, etc., etc. Ifa death occurs in 
the house of the king, he must not leave the gate of the palace, . 43-52 

MisHNAS //Z, TO V7. Three positive commandments was Israel com- 
manded when they entered Palestine, viz., they should appoint a king, etc. 
The treasures of kings which are plundered in time of war belong to the king 
only. He (the king) must not marry more than eighteen wives. Even one 





SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. xili 


wife, should she be liable to turn his heart away, he must not marry her. 
The number eighteen mentioned in the Mishna—whence is it deduced? Four 
hundred children were born to David by the handsome women whom he took 
captive (Z.e., those mentioned in Deut. xxi, 11), Only a son may stay alone 
with his mother, but it is not allowed for any one besides to stay alone with 
a married woman. He (the king) must not acquire many horses, neither 
more gold and silver than to pay the military. He shall not acquire many 
horses, and lest one say, ‘“‘ Eyen those which are needed for his chariots,” etc. 
He shall not acquire much gold and silver—lest one say, ‘‘ Not even suffi- 
cient for paying the military,” etc. Why does not the Scripture explain the 
reason of its law? Because in two verses it was so done, and the greatest 
men of a generation stumbled because of them, etc. Ezra was wrothy that 
the Torah should be given through him, if Moses had not preceded him, In 
the very beginning the Torah was given to Israel in Assyrian characters, etc. 
(see footnote, p. 59). One must not ride on his—the king’s—horse, etc. 
Come and see how hard is divorce in the eyes of thesages! He who divorces 
his first wife, even the altar sheds tears on account of him. The king must 
cut his hair every day, a high-priest every eve of Sabbath, and a commoner 
priest every thirty days, . ‘ ‘ 3 F ‘ ‘ F : 52-63 


CHAPTER III. 


MisuHnas /. To ///. Civil cases by three: one party may select one, and 
so the other, and both one more. Pure-minded people of Jerusalem used not 
to sign a document unless they were aware who was the other who was to 
sign it, and also would not sit down to judge unless they were aware who 
was to be their colleague, etc. One has no right to reject a judge who was 
appointed by the majority. There is a rule that the testimony of one who is 
interested in a case is not to be taken into consideration. Proof is needed to 
each claim, even if it is not so important that it could injure the case. He 
who saw Resh Lakish in the college saw one uprooting hills and crushing 
them, and he who saw R. Mair saw one uprooting moundains and crushing 
them. Gamblers (habitual dice-players) and usurers, and those who play 
with flying doves, are disqualified to be witnesses. What crime is there in 
dice-playing ? Because they do not occupy themselves with the welfare of 
the world. One who borrows to pay usurers is also disqualified. Gamblers 
are counted those who play with dice; and not only with dice, but even with 
the shells of nuts or pomegranates. Among those who play with doves—other 
animals are also meant. There was added to the disqualified witnesses 
robbers and forcers (z.¢., those who take things by force, although they pay 
the value for them). There was secondly added to that category, collectors 
of duty and contractors of the government. The father of R. Zera was a 
collector for thirteen years, etc. One’s thought for his maintenance injures 
him in his study of the law, etc. They who accept charity from idolaters 
are disqualified to be witnesses, provided they do so publicly, etc. One who 
is wicked in money matters only is disqualified to witness, but not one wicked 
in heavenly matters. Bar Hama had slain a man, and the Exilarch told 
Aba b. Jacob to investigate the case ; and if he really slew the man they 
should make the murderers blind, etc., . ‘ ; 4 : ‘ 64-79 


XIV SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


MIsHNAS JV. TO VJ, The following are counted relatives who may not be 
witnesses: Brothers, brothers of father or mother, brothers-in-law, etc, 
«« My father’s brother shall not witness in my cases; he, his son, and his son-in- 
Jaw.” ‘ The brother of my mother-in-law cannot be a witness forme.” The 
husband of one’s sister, also the husband of the sister of one’s father and the 
husband of the sister of one’s mother, their sons and their sons-in-law, are 
also excluded from being witnesses. A stepfather . . . his son-in-law, etc. 
There was a deed of gift which was signed by two brothers-in-law—7.e., two 
husbands of two sisters, etc. How were the witnesses examined? They 
were brought into separate chambers, etc. How were the witnesses 
frightened? There was one who had hidden witnesses under the curtains of 
his bed, and he said to his debtor: ‘‘ Have Ia mana with you?” etc. There 
was one who was named by the people ‘‘the man who has against him a 
whole kab of promissory notes.” There was another who was named 
‘the mouse who lies on dinars,” etc. There was a document of confession 
in which it was not written: “He (the debtor) has said to us, ‘ Write a 
document, sign, and give it him’ (the creditor),” etc. ‘I have seen your de- 
ceased father hide money in a certain place, saying, ‘This belongs to so-and- 
so,’” etc. How is the judgment to be written? So was the custom of the 
pure-minded in Jerusalem. They let parties enter, listened to their claims, 
and thereafter let the witnesses enter, listened to their testimony, then told all 
of them to go out, etc. This is a rule for every case in which is mentioned 
‘‘a witness,” that it means two. Simeon b. Alyaqim was anxious that the 
degree of Rabbi should be granted to Jose b. Hanina, etc., etc. A con- 
fession after a confession, or a confession after a loan, may be conjoined ; 
but a loan after a loan, or a loan after a confession, do not join (p. 91). 
Witnesses in civil cases who contradict one another in unimportant investi- 
gations are to be considered. So long as the defendant brings evidence to 
his advantage, the decision may.be nullified by the court. However, if after 
he had said, ‘‘I have no witnesses,” etc. What happened to R. Na’hman 
with a young man whom he made liable. If one who is summoning a party 
who says, ‘‘I want my case brought before the assembly of sages,” etc., he 
may be compelled to try his case in that city. In Babylonthey are not allowed 
to try cases of fine, . : ; . . c - ; . 79-96 


CHAPTER IV. 


MisHNAS /. TO ///, Cases coming before the court, the witnesses thereof 
must be examined and investigated. What difference is there between civil 
and criminal? The following from (a) to (g). Biblically there is no differ- 
ence between civil and criminal cases concerning investigations. But why 
is it enacted that civil cases do not need investigation? ‘Justice, only jus- 
tice, shalt thou pursue,” means that one shall follow to the city of a cele- 
brated judge, etc. What has the court first to say to the advantage of the 
defense in criminal cases? If one has tried a case, and made liable him 
who is not, or vice versa, etc. Tudus the physician testified that not one 
cow or one swine was sent from Alexandria in Egypt of which the womb 
was not removed, If one was found guilty by the court, and thereafter one 
come, saying: I know a defense for him, etc. So long as the fire in the 





SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. xv 


stove burns, cut off all that you want to roast, and roast it. (/e., when you 
are studying a thing, consider it thoroughly to prevent questions.) All who 
take part in the discussion may explain their reasons, until one of the accus- 
ers shall yield to one of the defenders. In the neighborhood of R. Johanan 
there was one who was blind who used to judge cases, etc. From the time 
of Moses until the time of Rabbi, we do not find one man who was unique in 
the possession of wisdom, riches, and glory, etc. One may teach his disciple, 
and at the same time may judge in association with him in criminal cases. 
In ten things civil cases differ from criminal cases. All are competent to 
judge civil cases. But not all of them are competent to judge criminal cases. 
The Sanhedrin sat in a half-circle in order that they could see each other, 
etc. The Torah has testified that we are such a kind of people that even a 
fence of lilies is sufficient for us, and will never be broken. How were the 
witnesses awestruck in criminal cases? A human being stamps many coins 
with one stamp, and all of them are alike; but the Holy One, blessed be He, 
has stamped every man with the stamp of Adam the first, and, nevertheless, 
not one of them is like the other. Although the court of the Sanhedrin ex- 
isted no longer, the punishment of the four kinds of death prescribed in the 
Scripture was not abolished by Heaven. Adam the first was created singly, 
and why? That disbelievers should not say there were many Creators in 
heaven, etc. In three things one is different from his neighbor—in voice, 


etc., Bi ‘ ; ‘ ; : ; : é , 97-114 


CHAPTER V. 


MIsHNA JZ, The court used to examine the witnesses with seven inquiries, 
etc. Should one of the witnesses say, ‘‘I have something to say in behalf 
of the defendant,” or one of the disciples, ‘‘ I have something to say to the dis- 
advantage of the defendant,” the court silences him. Why not say that 
eight queries are necessary in the examination? Viz., how many minutes 
are there in the hour? Do you recognize this man as the murderer of him 
who was slain? Was he a heathen or an Israelite? Have you warned 
him? Did he accept the warning? etc. Whence do we deduce that the 
warning is prescribed biblically ? Witnesses who testified in case of a be- 
trothed woman, if they be found collusive, are not to be put to death. What 
is the difference between examination? etc. Until what time may the bene- 
diction of the moon be pronounced? If Israel should have only the merito- 
rious act of receiving the glory of their heavenly Father once a month, it 
would be sufficient. They do not drink wine. And why not? In civil 
cases the court may say: The case becomes old, etc., . : 115-125 


CHAPTER VI. 


MisHNAS /. TO JV. If the conclusion was to condemn, the guilty one was 
taken out immediately to be stoned. A herald goes before him, heralding : 
So and so, etc. One stands with a flag. I doubt who had to bear the cost 
of the flag and horse mentioned in the Mishna, etc. If one of the disciples 
said, ‘‘I have something to say in behalf of the defendant,” and thereafter he 
became dumb? He who is modest, the verse considers him as if he should 


xvi SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


sacrifice all the sacrifices mentioned in the Scripture. When he (the guilty) 
was far from the place of execution—a distance of ten ells—he was told to 
confess, Why are the words “unto us and to our children,” and the Ayin 
of the ‘‘ad” pointed ? The Lord said to Joshua: Thou thyself hast caused 
all the evils, because thou didst excommunicate the goods of Jericho. One 
should always proceed with prayer before trouble comes. It happened with 
one who was going to be executed, that he said : If 1 am guilty of this crime, 
my death shall not atone for all my sins. See footnote, p. 135, concerning 
the legend of Simeon b. S. of the eighty witches hung by him. A male was 
stoned while naked, but not a female. The stoning place was two heights 
of aman, etc. If before the execution the hands of the witnesses were cut 
off, he becomes free from death. ‘‘The avenger of the blood himself shall 
slay.” Infer from this that it is a meritorious act for the avenger to do so 
himself, ‘ 5 ‘ 126-139 

MISHNAS V, AND VI. All site are bob: are also haniied: A male, but not 
a female. Two must not be judged on the same day, provided there are two 
kinds of death. How was one hanged? The beam was put in the earth, 
etc. King Sabur questioned R. Hama: Whence do you deduce from the 
Torah that one must be buried ? etc. Is the burying because the corpse 
shall become disgraced if not buried, or is it because of atonement? Is the 
lamentation an honor for the living or for the deceased ? And what is the 
difference? etc. A wicked person must not be buried with an upright one. 
All the curses with which David cursed Joab fell on the descendants of 
David. They were [II Sam. iii. 29], etc. If not for Joab, David would not 
have been able to occupy himself with the law, etc., . ° : 139-148 


CHAPTER VII. 


MisuHnas I. To V. Four kinds of capital punishment are prescribed to the 
court by the Scriptures. According to R. Simeon, burning is more rigorous 
than stoning. With her father, burning applies; with her father-in-law, 
stoning applies. How is this to be understood? Do you come to teach a 
Halakha which will be used only then when the Messiah will appear? The 
prescribed punishment of burning was this: The sinner was placed in waste 
knee-deep. Then placing a twisted scarf of coarse material within a soft 
one, etc. But why should burning not be inferred from the offerings of the 
bullocks, which were burned bodily? Nadob said to Abihu: When will 
the two old men die, and you and I be leaders of Israel? The prescribed 
punishment of slaying was thus: He was decapitated, etc. The prescribed 
punishment of choking was thus: The sinner was placed in waste knee-deep, 
etc. To the following sinners stoning applies: viz., one who had. connec- 
tion with his mother, etc. ‘‘A man” means toexclude a minor. [Lev. xxii.]: 
‘« That lieth with his father’s wife” means, that there is no difference whether 
she is his mother or not, Y i : é 150-164 

Misunas VZ. To VJ. One who held NOONE ES, with a human male, or 
with an animal, and also a human female who uncovers herself before a male 
animal, are punished with stoning. ‘‘ With an animal” makes no difference 
whether it was a large ora small one. A blasphemer is not guilty, unless 
he mentioned the proper name of God (Jehovah). ‘‘ Any man whatsoever,” 





SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. xvii 


etc., meaning to include the heathen, who are warned of blasphemy. Ten 
commandments were commanded to Israel in Marah; seven of them are 
those which were accepted by the descendants of Noah. For transgression 
of these commandments a descendant of Noah is put to death, viz., adultery, 
bloodshed, and blasphemy. A descendant of Noah may be put to death by 
the decision of one judge, by the testimony of one witness, etc. Every rela- 
tionship for which the punishment of the courts of Israel is death, a descend- 
ant of Noah is warned of it; but all other relationships, the punishment of 
which is not death, are permissible to them. He who raises his hand to 
his neighbor, although he has not as yet struck him, is called wicked. “ Flesh 
in which its life is, which is its blood, shall ye not eat,” [Gen. ix. 4] means 
any member of the animal, while it is still alive. Wedo not find any case 
where what is forbidden to the descendants of Noah should be allowed to the 
Israelites. An unclean thing never came from heaven. There is no differ- 
ence if one hearsit from the blasphemer himself or from the witness who 
heard it from the blasphemer—he must rend his garments . . 164-187 

MisHNAS V//I. TO X//, One is considered an idolater who worships it 
with its proper worship; and even if he only sacrifices, smokes incense, or 
pours wine, etc. Why not say that from bowing ‘all kinds of worshipping” 
is to be inferred? In our Mishna itsis stated: “-He who worships idols.” 
There is another Mishna, farther on, which states : He who says: “I will 
worship,” is always considered an idolater, etc. If one worship an idol 
because he loves it, or because he fears it, etc. Concerning Sabbath it is 
more rigorous than all the other commandments in one respect, and all other 
commandments are more rigorous in another respect, etc. There is a tradi- 
tion : He who conjoins the name of Heaven with something else is to be 
destroyed. It happened to a female heathen who was very sick and vowed 
that if she recovered she would worship all the idols which were to be found, 
etc. If one gives one of his children to Molech, he is not guilty unless he 
has transferred him to the servants, etc. One is not guilty unless he let him 
pass in the usual manner. What was that? A rowof bricks were placed for 
passing, etc. Baal ob (mentioned in the Scripture) is the python that makes 
the dead speak from his armpit, and Yidofii means one that makes the dead 
speak from his mouth. Is not he who queries an “ob” the same who inquires 
of the dead? Nay! etc. An observer of times is, according to R. Aqiba, 
he who reckons times and hours, saying: This day is good to go on the road, 
etc. He who curses his father or mother is not punished with a capital 
punishment, unless he curse them by the proper name of God, . 187-194 

MISHNAS X///, TO XJV. He who sins with a betrothed damsel is not 
guilty to be stoned, unless she was a maiden betrothed and still in her 
father’s house. A seducer means one who is himself a commoner—e.g., he 
says: There is an idol in such and such a place which so and so eats, etc. 
Concerning all who are liable to capital punishment biblically, itis not 
allowed to hide witnesses except in this case, etc. A conjurer is liable:to be 
stoned only when he did an act, but not if he dazzled the eyes. The Halakhas 
of witchcraft are similar to the Halakhas of Sabbath. There are some to 
which stoning applies, etc. I have seen a rider of a camel who took his 
sword, cut off the head of the camel, and thereafter rung a bell, and the camel 
stood up. It was only a dazzling of theeyes. The legend of R. Eliezer with 


XViii SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


his disciple, ‘‘ Thou shalt not learn to do,” means: “Thou must not learn 
to do, but thou mayest learn it to understand it for the purposes of deciding 
cases, . . . . . . . . . . . . 194-200 


CHAPTER VIII. 


Misunas J. To VIII. A stubborn and rebellious son—at what age may he 
be considered as such? From the time he brings forth two hairs, etc.; but 
the sages used to speak with delicacy. A minor of nine years and one day is 
fit to have connection with a woman, and in a case of adultery it is considered. 
Whence do we know that the first generation produced children at the age of 
eight? A daughter should be more open to the charges of stubbornness and 
rebelliousness, etc. But so is the decree of the Scripture—“ a son, and not a 
daughter.” He cannot be condemned as a stubborn and rebellious son 
unless he eats meat and drinks wine. You shall not look for wine which 
makes red the faces of the wicked in this world, and makes them pale in the 
world to come. Thirteen ways are enumerated in the Scripture concerning 
wine, as in Genesis ix., from 20 to 25. If he has stolen from his father and 
consumed on his premises, etc., he is not charged as a stubborn and rebel- 
lious son unless he stole from his mother and father. If the father is willing 
to transfer the case of the son in question to the court, and the mother is not 
willing, or vice versa, etc. Such a thing neither occurred nor ever will be, 
and the same is with the case of a misled town, and also with a house of lep- 
rosy, and was written only for study. If one hand of his father or mother is 
missing, or they limp, or are dumb, etc. If he runs away before the decision 
of condemnation is rendered, etc. The Scripture prefers that he should die 
innocent, and not be put to death because of his sins. For the death of the 
wicked is both a benefit to them and a benefit to the world, etc. In the case 
of “ breaking in” [Ex. xii., 1], for which there is no liability if one is killed 
by a detector, one is also punished because of his future crimes, etc. A 
burglar who broke in and succeeded in taking some utensils and escaped is 
free from paying. Because he acquired title to them by his blood. It 
happened that rams were stolen from Rabha by burglary and thereafter they 
were returned to him; he would not accept them because the above decision 
came from the mouth of Rabh, etc, . . os ae 

Misuna JX. The following may be ititled fot BEC ni SbeRHOH = He who 
pursues one to kill him, and he who pursueth a betrothed damsel, etc. 
According to the rabbis the Scripture cares for the violation of her honor, 
and as she also cares for it, though without life-sacrifice, she must be saved 
even by killing her pursuers, etc. One who intends to worship idols may be 
killed (if there is an impossibility of preventing his crime otherwise.) “In 
the city of Luda it was voted and resolved that if one were compelled, under 
threat of being killed, to commit any one of all the crimes which are men- 
tioned in the Torah, he might commit it and not be killed, except idolatry, 
- adultery, and bloodshed. Is a descendant of Noah commanded to sanctify 
the Holy Name, or not? It happened to one that he saw a woman and 
became sick through his infatuation, etc, . . . . . . © 216-221 


CHAPTER IX. 


Misunas J. to VJ. Punishment of burning applies to one man who has 
intercourse with a woman and her daughter, and to a daughter of a priest, 





SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. xix 


etc. Punishment with the sword applies to a murderer and to the men of a 
misled town. If one pressed down a person while he is in water, or in fire, 
preventing him from coming out, he is guilty, etc. If one bound a person, 
and he died thereafter of hunger, he is not guilty of a capital crime. If, how- 
ever, he put him in a sunny place, and he died because of the sun, he is guilty. 
Ball-players—if one threw a ball with the intention of killing some one, he is 
to be put to death, and if it was unintentional, he is to be exiled, etc. All 
agree that if one kills a person whose windpipe and larynx (gullet) are cut 
or whose skull is fractured, he is free (for it is considered as if he attacked a 
dead man). If one strikes a person with a stone or with his fists, and he was 
diagnosed (by the physicians of the court) to die, and thereafter he improved, 
etc. Capital punishment does not apply to one who intended to kill an 
animal and killed a man, an idolater and killed an Israelite, etc.; but it does 
apply to one who intended to strike a person on the loins with an article 
which was sufficient for this purpose, and he strikes him to death on his 
heart, etc. A murderer mixed up among others—all of them are free, etc. 
If it happen that the persons sentenced to deaths of different kinds, and are 
so mixed that it is not known who comes under this kind of death and who 
under another, all of them must be executed with the more lenient death. 
If one committed a crime which deserves two kinds of death, he must be 
tried for the more rigorous one. Ezek. xviii. must not be taken literally, but 
“the mountains he eateth not” means that he does not live upon the 
reward of the meritorious acts done by his parents; “his eyes he lifteth not 
up to the idols’ means that he never walked overbearingly, etc., . 222-238 

Misunas VJ1I. to 1X. He who receives stripes, and relaxes into the same 
crime, the court takes him to the kyphos. He who kills a person not in the 
presence of witnesses is taken to the kyphos and is fed on scant bread and 
water. If one steals a kisvah, or one curses his neighbor, invoking God as a 
“carver,” zealous people (like Pinchas) have a right to strike him when 
caught in the act. What is this punishment if there were no zealous men ? 
Answer to this, it happened that it was read before R. Kahan in a dream, 
etc. Ina case where there is a violation of the Holy Name the honor of the 
master must not be considered. “If a priest performs the service while he 
is defiled,” etc. “‘ If a common Israelite served in the Temple,” etc., 238-244 


CHAPTER X. 


Misunas /. to VI. Choking applies to him who strikes his father or 
mother, to him who steals a living soul, etc. A son is not guilty of a 
capital crime unless he wounds his father by striking him. Cursing is in one 
respect more rigorous than striking, as he is guilty even if he did it after his 
father’s death. If one steals a person, he is not guilty of a capital crime 
unless he brings him upon his own premises. There is no difference 
whether he stole a male or a female, a proselyte, or a bondsman, or a minor, 
etc. R. Jehudah says that there is no disgrace for slaves. “ Thou shalt not 
steal,” in the third commandment, means human beings. [Lev. xix., 11] : 
“Ye shalt not steal,” meaning money. A judge rebelling against the Great 
Sanhedrin. There were in Jerusalem three courts, etc. In case a judge in 
the country had a dispute with his colleagues, they came to the first court. 
If this court were able to decide it traditionally they rendered their decision; 
and if not, all of them came to the Great Sanhedrin, which was in the Temple 


xXx SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


treasury, etc. A disciple who is not a judge who decides for practice against 
the Great Sanhedrin, is not culpable. A rebelling judge is not guilty unless 
he gave his decision in a matter to which, if done intentionally, korath 
applies, etc. The punishment of him who transgresses the decision of the 
scribes is more rigorous than for that which is plainly written in the 
Scriptures. The judge in question was not put to death by the court of his. 
own city, etc., but was brought to the Supreme Council, in Jerusalem, etc. 
A false prophet who is to be sentenced by the court is only he who prophe- 
sies what he (personally) has not heard and what he was not told at all, ete. 
He who prophesied in the name of an idol, saying, “ So and so was said by 
such an idol,’ although it corresponds exactly with the Hebrew law, 
he is punished by choking. See all illustrations, pp. 258-260. In every case 
mentioned in the Torah, if a true prophet commands you to transgress, you 
may listen, except as to idolatry, 9 .)) .6 8. ee 245-268 


‘ CHAPTER XI. 


Misuna J, All Israel has a share in the world to come. The following 
have no share in the world to come: He who says, etc. Three kings and 
four commoners have no share in the world to come, etc. Is he who does. 
not believe that the resurrection is hinted at in the Torah such a criminal 
that he loses his share in the world to come? Where is the resurrection 
hinted at in the Torah? etc. From the Pentateuch, Prophets, and Hagi- 
ographa. See 267, also footnote. Queen Cleopatra questioned R. Mair thus: 
When they shall be restored, will they be naked or dressed? Cesar ques- 
tioned Rabbon Gamaliel: You say that the dead will be restored. Does not 
the corpse become dust? etc. The living die—should the dead come to life? 
That which has not existed at all comes to life—shall those who had life once 
not come to life again? The legend of Gebiah b. Pessisa who advocated 
Israel before Alexander of Macedonia, etc. (Pp. 268, 270.) Antoninus ‘said 
to Rabbi: The body and soul of a human may free themselves on the Day 
of Judgment by Heaven. How so? Why does the sun rise in the east and 
set in the west? At what time does the soul come into the body? At what 
time does the evil spirit reach man? Lest one say that the verse just cited 
means, I make one die and another one shall I bring to life, therefore it 
reads, “I wound and I cure.” As wounding and curing apply to one person 
only, etc. He who hesitates in declaring a Halakha to a disciple, even the 
embryos in the entrails of their mothers denounce him. Great is wisdom, 
as it was placed between two divine names. Exiles atone for everything. 
The upright who will be restored in the future will never return to dust. 
“What will they do at the time the Holy One, blessed be He, shall renew 
His world?” etc. Concerning the dead whom Ezekiel restored, the 
different opinions of Tannaim and Amoriam, if it was a reality or a parable 
only. (P. 278.) Six miracles occurred on the day Nebuchadnezzar threw 
Chananyah, Mishael, and Azaryah into the caldron. Even at the time of 
danger one shall not change the dress belonging to his dignity. Where was 
Daniel at the time that they were thrown into the caldron? The legend of 
Achab and Zedkiyahu with the daughter of Nebuchadnezzar. According to 
the advice of three, Daniel went away before the affair of Chananyah, etc. 
Concerning the six barleys which Boaz gave to Ruth. All that is written 
in the book of Ezra was said by Nehemiah b, Chackhalyah. Why then was. 





SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. xxi 


it not named after him? The angel who rules the souls after their departure 
from this world is named Dumah. Hiskiah, who has eight names, shall 
take revenge on Sanherib, who also has eight names. Hiskiah’s (king of 
Judah) whole meal consisted of a litter of herbs. Pharaoh, who personally 
blasphemed, was also punished by Heaven. Sanherib, who blasphemed 
through a messenger, was also punished through a messenger. Ten trips 
had the wicked made on that day, etc., as it reads [II Kings, x. 28 to 32]. 
There was one day more appointed for the punishment of the iniquity of 
Nob. And the astrologers told Sanherib, etc. If the judgment is postponed 
over one night there is hope that it will be abolished entirely. The legend 
how Abishai saved King David from Yishbi’s hand at Nob. Sanherib, when 
he came to attack, brought with him forty-five thousand princes with their 
concubines in golden carriages, etc. See pages 293-296, the many legends 
concerning Sanherib. Be careful with the children of the Gentiles, as it 
happens very often wisdom emanates from them. That the day on which 
Achaz died consisted of only two hours. And when Heskiah became sick 
and thereafter recovered, the Holy One returned the ten hours to that day, 
etc. Three hundred mules loaded with iron saws which cut iron were given 
to Nebusaradan by Nebuchadnezzar while going to attack Jerusalem. 
Nebusaradan was a true proselyte, from the descendants of Sissera were 
such who studied the law in Jerusalem, and from the descendants of Sanherib 
were such who taught the Torah among a majority of Israelites, etc. Have 
you heard when the fallen son will come? etc. In his Sabbatic period 
when the son of David will appear in the first year there will be fulfilled, etc. 
The generation in which the son of David will come, young men will make 
pale the faces of the old, etc. The world will continue for six thousand years, 
the first two thousand of which was a chaos, etc. There are no less than 
thirty-six upright in every generation who receive the appearance of the 
Shekinah. All the appointed times for the appearance of the Messiah have 
already ceased. And it depends only on repentance and good deeds. Jeru- 
salem will not be redeemed but by charity. What the Messiah told to 
Jehoshua ben Levi: Ben David will not arrive until Rome shall have 
dominated, etc. Discussion concerning the name of the Messiah. The 
cock said to the bat, I look out for the light because the light is mine (I see 
it), but for what purpose do you wait for it? The days of the Messiah will 
be as from the day of creation until now. “He hath despised the word of 
God,” means he who learned the Torah but does not teach it. He who 
learned the Torah and does not repeat it is similar to him who sows but does 
not harvest, etc. Has not Moses written something better than: And 
Lotan’s sister was Thimna, etc.? Who is meant by the term epicurian ? 
What good have the rabbis done for us? They have never permitted us to 
eat a crow, and they have not prohibited us to eat a dove, etc. The measure 
with which man measures will be measured out to him—.e., as a man deals 
he will be dealt with. A good woman is a good gift; she may be given to one 
who fears God. A bad woman is leprosy to her husband, etc. One may 
ask the fortune tellers who tell fortunes by certain oils or eggs. But it is not 
advisable to do so, because they often lie. Support me, and I will bear the 
statement of Aqiba, my disciple, who says: ‘“ Pleased are chastisements,”’ 
etc. Three men (biblical personages) came with indirectness, etc. What 
means, “and he lifted up his hands”? He took off his phylacteries in 
his presence. (See footnote, page 323.) The legends concerning Jeroboam, 


Xxil SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


Pp. 322-325. King Menashe appears to R. Ashi in a dream. R. Abuhu 
used to lecture about the three kings and became sick, ete. Why was Achab 
rewarded by the prolongation of his kingdom for twenty-two years? 
Because he was liberal with his money and assisted many scholars from his 
estate; half his sins were atoned. Four sects will not receive the glory of the 
Shekhina, viz., scorners, liars, hypocrites, and slanderers. Achaz abolished 
the worship and sealed the Torah, etc. The angels wanted to put Michah 
aside, but the Lord, however, said leave him alone because his house is open 
for travellers. Great are entertainments, for its refusal estranged two tribes 
from Israel, etc. Why does not the Mishna count Achaz and Amon among 
those who have no share? etc. Explanation to verses of Lamentation, 
Pp. 334 to 337. The Scripture is particular that if any one tells his troubles to 
his neighbor, he should add : “ May it not happen to you.” The interpreters 
of notes. said that all of them have a share in the world to come, etc. “A 
perpetual backsliding.” Said Rabh: A victorious answer has the assembly 
of Israel given to the prophets, etc. Concerning Bil’am, the elders of 
Moab, and Midian, .. 2 eT aS 268=340 

One shall always occupy “dinapelt wale the Totah me divine command- 
ments, even not for the sake of Heaven, as finally He will come to do so 
for His own sake, etc. The caution that Achiyah, the Shilonite, gave to 
Israel is better for them than the blessings that Bil’am has given to them. 
“And Israel dwelt in Shittim.” Everywhere such an expression is to be 
found it brings infliction, etc. I saw the record of Bil’am, and it was writ- 
ten therein thirty-three years was Bil’am when he was killed by Pinchas, 
the murderer. One shall not bring himself into temptation, as David, king 
of Israel, placed himself in the power of a trial and stumbled. Six months 
was David afflicted with leprosy; the Shekhina left him, and the Sanhedrin 
separated .themselves from him. Exclusion shall always be with the left 
hand, and inclusion with the right hand—z. e., if one is compelled to repudiate 
some one, he shall do it easy as with his left hand, etc. Concerning David's 
sin with Bath Sheba, . . & 1 ay Noe a Re SEO 

Misuna JJ. The ecreration of ‘dhe: nod hea no shone in the world to 
come, and are also not judged, etc. Concerning the generation of disper- 
sion, men of Sodom and Gomorrah, etc., pp. 350-355: ““ Noah was just, a per- 
fect man in his generation;” in his generation, but not in others. According 
to Resh Lakish: In his generation which was wicked, so much the more in 
other generations. Eliezar, the servant of Abraham, questioned Shem the 
great, etc. Shem the great questioned Eliezar, etc. ‘‘The generation of 
dispersion.”” What had they done ? What were the crimes of the Sodom- 
ites ? Concerning the congregation of Korah. One must do all he can 


not to strengthen a quarrel, etc. “Andall . . . on their feet,’ means 
the money which makes one stand on his feet. ‘The generation of the 
desert has no share,” etc, Eliezar, however, said, they have, etc., . 350-362 


Misunas JJ]. to IV. The ten tribes who were exiled will not be returned, 
etc. (pp. 362-363). From what age has a minor a share in the world to come? 
Your saying is not satisfactory to their creator. Say the reverse, even he 
who has studied but one law does not belong to the Gehenna. It hap- 
pened once that I was in Alexandria of Egypt, and I found a certain old 
Gentile who said to me: Come, and I will show you what my great-grand- 
fathers have done to yours, etc. Concerning Shebna and his society, ref. 
Isaiah, viii-12. Adam was created on the eve of Sabbath. And why? 








SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. XXill 


The Minnim shall not say, etc. At the time the Lord was about to create 
a man, He created a cetus of angels, etc. Every place where the Minnim 
gave their wrong interpretation the answer of annulling it is to be found 
in the same place—e.g., p. 370. The discussion with R. Gamaliel and other 
rabbis, pp. 372-376. ‘“‘ My creatures are sinking into the sea, and ye want 
to sing?” It reads [Ob. i. 1] : “The vision of the Lord . . .  con- 
cerning Edom.” Obadiah was an Edomite-proselyte. And this is what people 
say that the handle of the hatchet to cut the forest is taken from the wood 
of the same forest. [Gen. xxii. 1]: “After these things.” After what ? 
After the words of the Satan, etc. According to Levi, “after the exchange 
of the words between Ishmael and Isaac, ete, . . ¢ ict te) 362-378 

Misuna JV. The men of a misled town have no ‘uate in the world to 
come (the Halakhas in detail, 378-383). Concerning the key of rain, which 
is one of the three keys which are not to be transferred to a messenger, 
Elijah, too, in the days of Achab, etc, . . . . . . . . 378-385 


SYNOPSIS’ OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


TRACT MACCOTH (STRIPES). 


CHAPTER I. 


MISHNA /. TO X. How should witnesses be made collusive? There are 
another sort of witnesses who are not subject to the punishment of collusive- 
ness but who are to suffer stripes instead. Where do we find a hint in the 
Scripture that collusive witnesses shall be punished with stripes? There are 
four points concerning collusive witnesses, etc. And they are not sold as 
Hebrew slaves. As it reads: ‘‘He shall be sold for his theft, but not for 
his collusiveness.” A collusive witness pays his share. What does this 
mean? We testify that so and so has divorced his wife and has not paid the 
amount mentioned in her marriage contract, etc. We testify that so and so 
owes to his neighbor a thousand zuz, etc. If one says I will make you a loan 
with the stipulation that the Sabbathic year shall not release me, it neverthe- 
less releases. If one loans money to his neighbor without a fixed term of 
return, he has no right to demand it before the elapse of thirty days. We 
testify that so and so owes 200 zuz to his neighbor, and they were found 
collusive, etc. To anegative commandment that does not contain manual 
labor, stripes does not apply. The fine of money may be divided into two 
or three shares; however, this is not to be done with stripes. Witnesses 
cannot be made collusive unless the falsehood lies in their bodies. A woman 
once brought witnesses, and they were found false. She then brought 
another party, who were also found false; she then brought another party, 
etc. Because she is suspicious should all Israel be suspected of testifying 
falsely ? Collusive witnesses are not to be killed unless the sentence of capital 
punishment for the defendant is rendered. There is no punishment on the 
ground of @ fortiori conclusions. May I not live to see the consolation of 
our nation, if I have not killed a collusive witness for the purpose of remov- 
ing from the mind of the saducier, etc. The verse punishes one, an accom- 
plice who conjoins himself to transgressors with the same punishment, etc. 
_ And we may learn from this; that so much the more will he who conjoins 
himself to those who are engaged in meritorious acts, be rewarded, etc. 
There is no capital punishment, unless two witnesses have warned this cul- 
prit. If both of the witnesses have seen him who warned them, they are con- 
sidered conjoined. The court of Sanhedrin is to be established in Palestine 
as well as in the countries outside of it. In the large cities bu‘ not in the 
small ones, . i ; f i : j ° 4 é J : I-14. 


xiii 





xiv SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


CHAPTER II. 


MisHNA J. TO V. The following are exiled, he who kills a person unin- 
tentionally. The act of one who thought that such is allowed is not to be 
considered an accident, but almost intentional. If one has climbed a ladder 
and the step under him broke and killed, one Boraitha declares him guilty, 
etc. If the iron of a hatchet slipped off and killed. One threw a lump of 
brittle stone at a date tree, and the dates fell off and killed (a child). What 
is considered second force according to Rabbi? If one throws a stone in 
a public ground and it kills, he is to be exiled. The punishment of exile 
attaches but to a private set. Is hewing wood always considered a private 
affair? All kinds of human beings are exiled when they killed by accident 
an Israelite. A father is exiled if he killed his son accidentally. A heathen 
or a slave is to be exiled or punished with stripes through an Israelite and 
vice versa. A stranger or an idolator who has killed even unintentionally is 
put to death. Only then when, thinking that such is allowed ; ‘‘For he isa 
prophet.” How is this to be understood? Because he is a prophet she has 
to be returned, but if a layman, she would not, etc. Exile does not apply to 
a blind one. An enemy is not exiled (as sucha punishment does not suffice). 
If the rope to which the man’s instrument was attached, broke—then he is 
exiled ; but if the instrument slips out of his hand, exile is not sufficient. 
Whither are they to be exiled? To the cities of refuge, etc. They were 
also obliged to prepare roads from one city to the other. Formerly all 
murderers, accidental as well as intentional, used to flee to the cities of refuge, 
etc. ‘‘Giliad is become a city of workers of wickedness,” etc. What does 
this expression mean? The city of refuge must neither be too large nor too 
small, but middle-sized ones. Be situated in places where there is water and 
markets. Ifa disciple is exiled, his master is exiled with him; because the 
expression, ‘‘and live,” means you shall supply him with the sources of 
moral life. He who loves the abundance of scholars possesses the fruit of 
knowledge. I learned much from my masters, more, however, from my col- 
leagues, and still more from my disciples. The Holy One, blessed be He, 
appoints them into one inn, and he who had killed intentionally is placed 
under a ladder, while the other, who killed unintentionally, descends the 
steps, falls and kills him. According to one he wrote only the eight verses, 
which begin with. ‘And Moses died,” etc., ; ‘ 14-28 

MISHNA V/. TO X. There is no difference between the high priests who 
were anointed with the holy oil, etc. Therefore the mothers of the priests 
used to support the murderers with food and clothes, etc. It is counted as 
a sin to the priest who should pray that no accident might happen in that 
generation. If asage has put some one under the ban conditionally, etc. 
The forty years during which Israel was in the desert, the remains of Judah 
were dismembered in his coffin until Moses prayed for him, etc. If after 
the decision has been rendered, the high priest dies, he is not exiled, etc. 
If it happens that a murderer goes outside of the limit, etc. What has the 
high priest done that the murderer’s fate should depend upon his death ? 
Joab erred twice in so acting: (a) he thought that the horns of the altar 
protect, etc. The cities of refuge are not given for cemeteries. If one 
killed accidentally in the city of refuge, he is to be exiled, etc. If a murderer 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. XV 


was exiled, the townsmen like.to honor him, he has to say to them: “I am 
a murderer,” . : 5 : ‘ r : : ‘ : : 28-34. 


CHAPTER III. 


MIsHNA /. TO V. To the following stripes apply: Crimes under the 
category of Korath, as well as under that of capital punishment, are also 
punished with stripes if they were so warned. To a negative command, 
which is preceded by a positive one, stripes apply. The culprit does not 
get stripes unless he abolishes the succeeding positive command. R. 
Simeon .b. Lakish, however, differs, and says: He is free from stripes only 
when he has fulfilled the succeeding one. He who took the mother-bird 
with her children gets, according to R. Jehudah, stripes. It happened with 
a children teacher who struck too much the children, and R. A’ha excom- 
municated him ; Rabbma, however, returned him because he could not find 
as good ateacher. Stripes also apply to him who partook of the first fruit 
before the ceremony of reading was performed. If a positive succeeds a 
negative, no stripes apply. A stranger who had consumed sin and trans- 
gression offerings before their blood was sprinkled is free from any punish- 
ment. Concerning the first fruit, placing it in the temple is the main thing, 
and not the ceremony of reading. The culpability for second tithe arises 
only after it has seen the face of the wall of Jerusalem. He who makes a 
baldness in the hair of his head, or rounds it, etc., is liable. The culpability 
arises only, then, when he took it off with a razor. What should be the size 
of the bald spot which would make him culpable? If one made an incision 
with an instrument he is culpable.’ For dead he is culpable at all courts 
whether by hand or instrument. The culpability for etching-in arises only 
when he has done both, wrote and etched-in with dye, etc. A Nazarite who 
was drinking wine the whole day is culpable only for one negative. There 
is an instance that one may plough only one bed and shall be culpable for 
eight negatives. The number of stripes is forty less one, ; - 34-47. 

MIsHNA V/.-/X. The examination as to the number of stripes he can 
receive and remain alive must be such that can be equally divided by three. 
If one commits a sin to which two negatives apply, etc. How is the punish- 
ment with stripes to be performed? The striker strikes him with one hand 
so that the strokes shall become weaker. If, after he has been tied, he suc- 
ceeds to run away from the Court, he is free. As he was already disgraced, 
he is not taken to be disgraced again. The Lord wanted to make Israel 
blissful and therefore he multiplied to them his commands. At three places 
the Holy Spirit appeared. At the court of Shem, etc. Six hundred and 
thirteen commands were said to Moses, etc. Isaiah reduced them to six. 
Michah came and reduced them to three. Isaiah (the second) again reduced 


them totwo. ‘Keep ye justice and do equity.” Amos reduced them to 
one. ‘Seek ye for me, and ye shall live,” . : : ‘ - 47-56. 
APPENDIX. 


He who speaks ill of his neighbor, he who listens to such evil-speak- 
ing, finally, he who bears false testimony deserves to be thrown to the 
dogs, R ‘ 4 ‘ , ‘ j ‘ ‘ ‘ f ‘ 47-56. 








SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


TRACT SHEBUOTH (OATHS). 


CHAPTER I. 


Misuna J. There are two kinds of oaths which are subdivided into four. 
The he-goat makes it pending. How is this to be understood? If it does 
not atone, what is the use of making it pending? It means, i.e, if the trans- 
gressor dies then it may be considered: that if he dies before he becomes 
aware of it, this sin is not reckoned to him any more. Said Rabha to him: 
“In case he dies, the death itself completes the atonement; it is the he-goat 
that saves him from chastisement before he becomes aware by making it 
pending. All the above-mentioned persons are atoned for by the exported 
he-goats for all other transgressions without any difference, etc. Such is 
the custom of the divine attribute of justice, that the righteous atone for 
the wicked and not that the wicked atone for another wicked, . 1-16 


CHAPTER Ii. 


Misuna J. The cognition of uncleanness is of two kinds subdivided into 
four. The courtyard was sanctified with the remains of a meal-offering 
only, in order to make it equal to the City of Jerusalem itself, etc. The 
orchestra of the thanks-offering consisted of violins, fifes, trumpets on every 
corner as well as on every elevated stone in Jerusalem, and used to play, etc. 
It was taught, R. Huna says: “ All the details in the Mishna were essential 
in the construction, etc. If one enters a leprous house backwards, although 
all his body was already in the house except his nose, he remains clean. 
And ye shall separate the children of Israel from their uncleanness,’’ whence 
you derive the warning that the children of Israel should separate them- 
selves from their wives near the period of menstruation, etc. If there 
were two paths one of which was unclean (but it was not certain which 
one), and one passed through one of them entering, etc. . : 17-26 


CHAPTER III. 


Misuna J. to VII. There are two kinds of oaths subdivided into four. 
I sweat that I will eat, or I will not eat, etc. Where do we find that one 
must bring an offering for mere talk, as this one does talk and brings an 
offering. What is Issor mentioned in the Torah? If one says: “I take 
upon myself not to eat meat,” etc. Vain (Shakve) and false (Shekker) are 
identical. Stripes apply to all negatives of the Torah implying manual 
labor, but not to those without manual labor, excepting, however, an oath. 
There is a moth, which is but a minimum in size, and yet one is liable for 


Vv 


vi SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


consuming it. I swear that I will not eat, and thereafter eats and drinks, he 
is guilty but once. I will drink neither wine, oil nor honey, and then drinks, 
he is guilty for each severally. If he swore not to eat and thereafter ate 
carcasses or illegal cattle, reptiles and vermin, he is guilty. R. Simeon 
declares him free. The reason of him who holds that one is liable for an 
inclusion is that he compares it to an additional prohibition. It is im- 
material whether the things sworn off concern himself or others, whether 
they are or are not of some essential nature. One is guilty only for an 
oath made with reference to the future, etc. I swear that I know something 
to testify for you, and it is found hereafter that he knows nothing, etc. 
There is a rule that, if to something that was included in the general a 
new law be applied, only by the new one must guide one’s self, etc. To 
exclude compulsion what could illustrate this? As it happened to R. 
Kahana and R. Assi after the lectures at Rabh’s college, etc. Suppose 
one swear not to eat this bread, and then he is in danger if he does not 
eat it, how is it, etc.? If one swears to ignore some commandment and 
does not carry out his oath, etc. If one says I swear not to eat this bread, 
in case I eat the other, etc. Which is false swearing? If one swears that 
something is different from what it is known by everybody to be. The 
provisions regarding uttered swearing apply to males, females, to kindred, 
non-kindred, etc. . ; ‘ : ; : ida 8 : : : 27-46 


CHAPTER IV. 


Misuna I. to VI. The witness-oath applies to men but not to women, 
to unrelated but not to kindred, etc. If a scholar was aware of a case, but 
it was a humiliation to him to go to that particular court he may remain at 
home, etc., concerning civil cases only. The many things inferred from 
Exod. xxiii. 7. Keep thyself far from a false speech. How does a witness- 
oath come about? If some one said to two, etc. If there were two parties 
of witnesses and both denied successively, etc. There is also a case concern- 
ing a witness who refuses to testify to the death of a husband, etc. If one 
of them denies and the other confesses, etc. I adjure you that you come and 
bear me witness, that I have in the possession of so and so, etc. I adjure 
you to testify that so and so has spread abroad an evil name on my 
daughter, etc. We swear that we know nothing for you, while in reality 
they do know, etc. I adjure you, I impose upon you, I bind you (by oath) 
so they are guilty, etc. If one writes Aleph Lamed (the first letters from 
Eloim), etc. It must not be erased, etc. All the divine names found in the 
Torah in connection with Abraham are holy, etc. Amen embraces oath, 
acceptance and confidence, etc. Nay means oath and yea means also an 
oath, etc. R. Kama, while sitting before R. Jehudah, repeated the Mishna 
in its own language, and he said to him: “ Change the language and use 
it in the third person, . 5 ’ : ‘ : d { 4 ; 46-65 


CHAPTER V. 


Misuna J. to VI. The depository oath concerns men and women non- 
kindred and kindred, those fit to testify and those unfit, etc. What is the 
law, when one has intentionally made a depository oath in spite of a warning, 
is he liable to a sin-offering or not? If the depository claims that the 








SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. vii 


deposit has been stolen from him, swears, but thereafter confesses, etc. If 
one denies money when there are witnesses, he is subject to an oath, but 
is free from such if there is a document. How is it if five persons claim the 
four articles and he says to one of them I swear that thou hast not with 
me a deposit, etc., and not thou and not thou, etc. ? : ; 66-74 


CHAPTER VI. 


Misuna J. to IJI. In the case of an oath before court, the claim must 
amount to two silver, and the confession to one peruta, etc. If one requires 
movables and real estate, and the other admits movables but denies real estate 
or vice versa, he is free, etc. One must stand when taking the oath; a 
scholar, however, may do it while sitting. An oath taken by one before the 
court must be uttered in a language he understands, and the court must 
say to him the following introduction. Be aware that the whole world was 
trembling when the Lord spake on the Mount Sinai: ‘“ Thou shalt not bear 
the name of the Lord thy God falsely.” I have with you a gold dinar in 
gold. Nay you have with me only a silver dinar, he is liable. If one was 
about to claim wheat, and the defendant hastened to confess barley, etc. 
What is the difference between a biblical and a rabbinical oath. I have a 
mana with you. Yea, you shall not return it to me without the presence 
of witnesses, etc. In another case one demanded a hundred zuz, etc. A 
borrower said to the lender: “ You are trusted so long as you will say that 
I have not paid you”; thereafter he paid him in the presence of witnesses, 
etc. One does not swear to the following: To slaves written documents, etc. 
One swears but to things capable of being measured, weighed and counted. 
How so? If one lends to his neighbor on a pledge, and the pledge got lost, 
etc. If one lends to his neighbor 1,000 zuz, and pledges them the handle 
of a scythe only, etc. 3 ‘ F ; : s . ; : 75-93 


CHAPTER VII. 


Misuna J. All those who are subject to a biblical oath swear and do not 
pay, etc. Give me change for a dinar. Give the dinar. I have given it to you 
already, etc. You have hired me for two zuz to repair something, while the 
employer says that he hired him only for one zuz, etc. If witnesses saw one 
concealing utensils under his garments when coming out from a house, 
and he claims that he had bought them, etc. The oath returns to its place— 
the Mount Sinai. If there were two parties of witnesses contradicting each 
other, each party may appear and testify for itself. Let the master con- 
join with us in nullifying the statement of Rabh and Samuel. It once 
happened that B, who had borrowed money of A through a surety and 
on a document died, etc. . { : ’ $ i 4 e ‘ 93-105 


CHAPTER VIII. 


Misuna J. There are four kinds of bailees, gratuitous, on hire, borrower 
and hirer, etc. This is the rule: “ Whoever tends to commutate, by his 
oath liability to liability, unliability to unability, or unability to liability is 
free, etc. . ‘ : Z ‘ ‘ : f : * Appendix, 106-108 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


TRACT ABUDA ZARA (IDOLATRY). 


CHAPTER. I. 


MisHna J. Three days before the festival of the heathen, it is for- 
bidden to have any business with them. In the future the Lord will take 
the Holy Scroll in hand, saying, “He who was occupied with it shall appear 
and receive his reward.” The kingdom of Rome will then enter first, etc. 
After Rome has departed, Persia enters, etc. We have constructed many 
bridges, conquered many great cities, we were engaged in many wars, all for 
the sake of Israel to enable them to study the law, etc. “Have we then 
accepted the Torah, and not fulfilled its commandments?” A Gentile 
who is occupied with the study of the law is likened to a High-priest, etc. 
“Lord of the Universe, has then Israel, who has accepted the Torah, 
observed it?” ‘‘ Men of ye nations may come and testify that Israel has 
observed the Torah. Nimrod may testify, etc. There are twelve hours in a 
day, three hours of which the Lord is occupied with the Torah, etc. There 
is no smiling by the Lord, since the temple was destroyed. But in the 
fourth three hours He teaches, etc. There is no Gehenna in the future. 
But the Lord will take out the sun from its sheath, etc. If not for the fear 
for government the stronger would swallow the weaker, etc. Concerning 
the explanation of (Amos, iii. 2) said R. Abuhuh, I will do it in the form of a 
parable. There was once a creditor of two persons, one a friend and the 
other an enemy of his. It is advisable for one not to pray singly the addi- 
tional benediction in the first three hours at the first day of new year. When 
one performs a meritorious act in this world it precedes him in the world to 
come. “ Three days,” etc. Is such a long time needed? is this forbidden 
because a Jew must not interfere with the idols, or because “‘ Thou shalt not 
put a stone for the blind” ? The prohibition to do business with them 
refers only to a thing which can be kept in good order until the festival day. 
It is advisable for one to always arrange the praises of the Ominipotent first, 
and thereafter to recite the daily eighteen benedictions. The following are 
the festivals of the heathens: Kalends, Saturnalia, Kratsin, etc. Adam the 
first, on the first day of his creation, when he saw the sun set, cried: “ Woe 
is to me, the world is to be returned to chaos, etc.” Thirty-two battles the 
Romans fought with the Greeks, etc. Twenty-six years the Romans kept their 


v 











vi re SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


promise to Israel, and thereafter they failed. The twenty-six years are not 
counted. The world will continue for six thousand years, the first two 
thousand of which were a chaos (Tahu), etc. It happened with Antoninus 
(the Caesar of Rome), who said to Rabbi, etc. (See the whole legend, pp. 
16-18). Unklus b. Klenimus embraced Judaism, and the Caesar sent militia 
to take him, etc. (See the legend, pp. 18-19). There was still another festi- 
val in Rome which occurs once in seventy years, on which they would make 
a well man ride on a lame man, ete. . ‘ F I-21 

Misuna JV, In a city where the idol is nlecend interfering is forbidden 
inside, but not outside. If, during an idol festival in the city, some 
stores were there decorated, one must not buy, etc. The following are for- 
bidden to be sold to the heathens; Fir-cones, etc. We have a tradition that 
the tract Aboda Zara of Abraham the patriarch contained four hundred chap- 
ters, etc. Where it is customary to sell small cattle to heathens it is lawful 
to do so, etc. One must not sell to them bears, lions, and all such things, by 
which the people can be injured, etc. I walked in the upper market of 
Ciporas, and I met one of the minim, named Jacob, of the village of Sac- 
hania. So taught Josa B. Southyra, etc. (See foot-note, p. 27.) The legend 
of Eliazer ben Durdaya (28). The leech hath two daughters (crying), 
“ Give, give,” i.e. minunism—and the government, which are never satisfied, 
etc. Raba sold an ass to an Israelite who was suspected of selling it to a 
heathen, etc. He who occupies himself with the Torah, but does not observe 
bestowing of favors, is similar to him who denies God. The Legend of 
Eliezer b. Sarta and Chanina b. Tradion when captured by government, 
p. 29, 30. How Chanina was burned together with the holy scrolls, and 
what became of his wife and daughter, p. 31, 32. The redeeming of latter 
by R. Mair (Baal Hanes), p. 33. Happy is he who conquers his evil spirit, 
as a heroic man, etc. It is advisable to divide one’s years into three parts: 
one-third for the study of Scripture, the second Mishna, and the third Tal- 
mud, etc. R.Aqiba when he saw the wife of Tornus Rupers, he laughed and 
wept, etc. Houses must not be rented to the heathens in Palestine, etc. 
One must not rent his bath-house to a heathen, but how is it to a Samaritan? 
etc. . A : ; : ; : ; : , ; ; 21-40 


CHAPTER II. 


Misuna J. Cattle must not be placed in the inns of the heathens. (See 
foot-note, p. 41.) “And the cows went straight forward,” etc. What does 
this expression mean? It reads (Jos. x. 13): “And the sun stood still, 
written in the book of Yasher.” What is the book of Yasher? One must 
not stay alone even with two women. If an Israelite while on the road, 
happened to be accompanied by a heathen, etc. One must not confine a 
heathen because she brought up a person to idolatry, etc. A city in which 
there is no Jewish physician, but a Samaritan and a heathen, the heathen 
shall circumcise and not the Samaritan. One may employ their (the 
heathens’) services for curing his personal property, etc. Ben Dama was. 
bitten by a snake, Jacob come to heal him with the name of Jesus, but R. 
Ismael did not allow. With R. Johanan it is different, as he himself was an 
established physician. Medicines and other remedies for different sickness. 
by different men and women, on pp. 50-53. The following things of the 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. vii 


heathens are prohibited, and the prohibition extends even to the deriving 
of any benefit therefrom—viz: wine, vinegar, etc. No benefit is to be 
derived from the dead. Samuel and Ablat, the latter who was a heathen, 
were sitting together, and cooked wine was brought for them, etc. Tv 
fermenting wine no uncovery applies. One must not pour water which 
has been uncovered, in the public streets, and also not water cattle with it. 
The sages forbid date-beer of the heathens, as a safeguard against inter- 
marriage. The sick heathens who become swollen, and whom uncovered 
water does not harm, surely ate reptiles, so that their bodies contain 
poison which prevent the harming effects of the snake-poison. <A 
heathen pilgrim is prohibited only when on his way to the idol, ete. 
Enamelled vessels, no matter what color, are permissable. Fish oil made 
by a heathen specialist is permissable. Why did the sages forbid 
the cheese of Anugiki? Sweet are to me the words of thy friends 
(the sages who are explaining the law), more than the essence of the Torah. 
Compress your lips, one upon the other, and hasten not to propound ques- 
tion, : ‘ : : : f ; : A : J , 41-65 
Misuna V. The following are prohibited, but not from deriving benefit 
from them: Milk, etc. What is the reason for the prohibition of milk? etc. 
Concerning oil, Daniel has decreed the prohibition according to Rabh, etc. 
To everything which is not served on the table of noblemen to relish the 
bread, the prohibition of “ cooked by a heathen” does not apply. All that 
may be eaten in a raw state, may also be eaten when cooked by a heathen. 
The sea-donkey is allowed, but not the sea-ox; and you remember this by 
the following mark: the unclean (on earth?) is clean, while the clean is 
unclean. We are to trust the wife of a scholar as we have trusted her 
husband. Meat, wine, blue wool that are to be forwarded through a 
heathen, require each two seals. The following things are allowed to eat, 
milk milked by a heathen in the presence of an Israelite, honey and honey- 
cake, etc. Fish entrails as well as fish-rye you may buy only of a specialist, 
etc. If the vender says, I have pickled the fish and know them to be clean, 
he is trusted. Praised be the Omnipotent, who puts this world in the hands 
of guardians! ; : : : ; : ; : ; ; 65-81 


CHAPTER III. 


Mrsuna J. to VJ. All images are prohibited, for they are worshipped 
at least once a year. The staff in the hand of the idol. The bird in its 
hand of the idol. Finally, the sphere is to indicate that it sacrifices itself 
for the whole globe. If one finds fragments of images, he is allowed to 
use them, etc. It is taught that a heathen can profane the idol of his 
fellow heathen as well as his own, while an Israelite cannot profane the idol 
of a heathen. If one finds vessels with the image of the sun, moon, etc., 
‘he must throw them into the salt lake. The human image and that of a 
nurse are, however, prohibited only when having respectively a measure in 
the hand and a son in the arms whom she is nursing. One may grind 
the images and scatter them to the wind, or sink them into the sea, etc. 
Peroklas, the son of a philosopher, asked once R. Gamaliel at Ako, who was 
then bathing in the bath of the goddess Aphrodite, etc. R. Gamaliel gave 
Peroklas an evasive answer; but I (Hama) say it was not evasive, etc., etc. 


eS IR ee 


a 
y 


; 
j 
4 
| 
wa 
a 
2) 
{ 
| 
1 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 








viii SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


The mountains and hills worshipped by heathens are allowed to use, 
but not the things, brought upon them, etc. Wherever you find a high 
mountain, an elevated hill, a leafy tree, there is surely an idol there. A 
town or place bearing the name of an idol should be renamed. If stones 
absolved fortuitously from a mountain rock, that was worshipped, is their 
use allowed or not? y b it y : Savane ; 82-06 

Misuna VII. to XV. If a house situated, close by a worship-house of 
an idol crumbles. down, its owner is prohibited from rebuilding it, etc. 
There are three kinds of houses. There are three kinds of stones. There 
are three kinds of groves, etc. What is a grove? A tree with an idol under 
it. R. Simion said: “ Any tree that is worshipped. It is not allowed to sit 
down in the shade of such a tree.” Under such a tree is allowed to sow 
herbs in the winter, but not in summer, etc. To derive any benefit of wood 
obtained from an idol-grove is prohibited. How is the idol worship of a 
tree profaned, etc.? F ‘ : . ‘ ‘ P 96-103 


CHAPTER IV. 


Misuna J. to VI. Three stones near one another and beside the 
Merkules are prohibited. The son of the saints treads on them, should we 
abstain thereform? Who was this son, etc.? One is not liable for slaughter- 
ing a blemished animal to an idol, etc. Money, garments, utensils found 
on the head of an idol are allowed, etc. The use of a garden or bathing- 
place belonging to an idol is allowed when it is gratis, etc. It is common 
sense that that idol of an Israelite should be forbidden from the very 
beginning, etc. Whether or no food offered to an idol, if profaned, loses 
thereby its defilement? There was a pantry in the temple, where the 
Macabees heaped up the stones of the altar defiled by the Greeks. A 
heathen can profane his idol as well as that of his neighbor, etc. How is 
an idol to be profaned? If an Israelite erects a brick to worship it, but 
does not worship, and a heathen comes, and worships it, it is prohibited, 
etc. An idol anbandoned by its worshippers in time of peace is allowed. 
My respect for Rabh and Samuel is so great that I should readily fill my 
eyes with the ashes of their corpses; none the less, etc. An animal resting 
in the proximity of an idol becomes unallowable, etc. The animal 
obtained by the idol-worshippers in exchange for an idol is for- 
bidden . : ; } ‘ ; : ‘ : : ; 103-119 

Misuna VII. to IX. If God is displeased with idol-worship, why does he 
not destroy the idols, etc.? If the heathens worshipped but things not need- 
ful to the world, He would surely annihilate them; but they worship the 
sun, moon, stars and the planets. How is it that so many cripples are 
cured by the idols in their temples? If one comes to defile himself, the 
door is opened to him, while when one comes to cleanse himself, he is 
supported. It is forbidden both to tread and to gather with an Israelite, 
who prepares the wine while he is unclean, etc. They further warned 
against contributing toward the conditions defiling the fruit in Palestine, 
etc. It once happened that an Israelite and a heathen jointly hired and 
worked a wine-press in the City of Nahardea, etc. A heathen once hap- 
pened to enter the house of a Jewish wine-seller, etc. R. Johanan b. Arza 
and R. Jose b. Nehorai were once sitting together indulging a little in 


SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. ix 


wine, when a man came in, etc. Does a heathen render the wine prohibited 
by pouring water into it? Whether it is allowed to hire a heathen for con- 
veying grapes to the wine-press of an Israelite, etc.? A heathen stand- 
ing near the wine reservoir renders the wine forbidden, provided he has 
a lien on it, ete. If an Israelite, who has cleansed the wine of a heathen, 
left it on the latter’s premises, etc. When and Israelite buys or rents a house 
in the courtyard of a heathen, etc. It once happened that Israelites bought 
of Sarsik, the viceroy, the grapes of a vineyard, etc.. . ‘ ‘ 119-134 


CHAPTER V. 


Misuna J. to V. The wages of a laborer hired by a heathen to work 
with him, wine for libation are prohibited. How is it when the heathen 
hires a Jewish laborer to prepare wine in general? Whether or no the use 
of the money obtained by a heathen from the sale of an idol is all for- 
bidden to an Israelite. Can a citizen-proselyte, a heathen settled down 
in the land of Israel, on having taking upon himself not to practice idol- 
worship only, etc. “‘ Jews in prospect such pleasures in your paradise? Do 
you really mean,” said the other, “that there are greater pleasures than 
this?” If offered wine he poured on grapes, etc. In the case when beer 
vinegar was intermixed with wine vinegar, or oaten yeast with wheat yeast, 
etc. The rule is: “a prohibited thing renders another one forbidden,” etc. 
‘ It once happened that a mouse was found in a barrel of beer, and Rabh pro- 
hibited the beer. Wine known as being watched, is allowed when trans- 
ported from place to place by a heathen, etc. ‘“‘ When an Israelite leaves his 
- wine in the wagon,” etc. Jewish wine was once stored up in a house, 
where a heathen and an Israelite lived in the lower and upper floors, 
respectively, etc, An Israelite and a heathen were once at an inn sitting and 
drinking wine, etc. In the city of Sumbeditha thieves once intruded into a 
house, etc. When an army enters a town in time of peace etc. He who 
sells his wine to a heathen is allowed to use the money, etc. Rabh told the 
Jewish wine-dealers to have their heathen customers pay in advance, etc. 
Once an Israelite said to his neighbor: “ When I make up my mind to sell 
this field, I will sell it to you.” Later on he sold it to a third party, etc. 
An Israelite once said to his neighbor: “ When I make up mind to sell 
this field, I will sell it to you for a hundred suz, etc. If the funnel was 
first used to measure through it into the heathens flask, etc. Devoted wine 
is prohibited, and renders unallowable even by a minimal quantity. If for- 
bidden wine falls into a reservoir, and simultaneously a pitcher of water, 
etc. This is the rule: ‘‘ When the two are of the same kind; a minimal 
quantity suffices, etc. For how long must the utensils remain glowing in 
fire, etc. “A knife is cleansed even by grinding it.” 











SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS 


OF 


TRACT HORIOTH (DECISIONS). 


CHAPTER I. 


MisHna J. to V. If, after the court had decreed the transgression of 
one of all the commandments prescribed in the Torah, an individual guided 
by this decree acted erroneously, etc. If upon issuing the decree the court 
becomes aware of its being conceived in error and retracts, and mean- 
while an individual commits a transgression upon their decree, etc. If while 
the court was deciding, one of its members who perceived their error drew 
their attention to it, etc. If causing the whole people to act erroneously, etc. 
If upon the erroneous decree of the court the whole people, or its majority, 
acted, etc., . : P é : ; ; : P : 3-12 


CHAPTER II. 


Misuna J. to VII. If an anointed priest has erroneously rendered an 
unlawful decision against himself and acted accordingly by mistake, etc. 
If he (the said priest) both decided and acted for himself, etc. The court 
is not liable unless the issued decree concerns Korath and sin-offering 
respectively. It is also not liable for a decree concerning a command or 
a prohibition with regard to (polluting) the sanctuary. There is no liability 
when the decree concerns an adjuring challenge to testify, a hastily made 
vow, etc. Concerning a ruler and the high priest’s offerings for their 
sit, : : ; ; , : 7, : ; ; 13-18 


CHAPTER III. 


Misuna J. to VII. An anointed priest who has sinned and was removed 
from his office, etc. If they were appointed to their respective positions 
after they had sinned, etc. Who is the anointed priest? He who was con- 
secrated to priesthood by the holy ointment, etc. The high priest rends his 
garment from below; the common priest, from the top, etc. What is more 
common precedes the less common. The man has the preference over the 
woman, etc. In captivity his master has the preference over his father. His 
mother, however, has the preference over all. The following precede one 

iii 


iv SYNOPSIS OF SUBJECTS. 


another in order of arrangement, etc. Why does the dog know his master, 
and the cat does not? Why do all reign over the mice? Five objects’ are 
conducive to one’s forgetting his studies, etc. Five are apt to strengthen 
one’s memory, etc. The following ten objects are cumbrous to one’ s studies, 
etc. When the prince enters, all the people present in college rise to. their 
feet, without again taking their seats until he tells them to do so. When 
the chief justice enters, the people occupying two rows of seats facing 
the entrance rise, etc. The legend which happened to Raban Simon b. 
Gamaliel with R. Mair and R. Nathan. How the latter were removed from 
the college. An erudite scholar and a dialectician, who has the preference? — 
How Abaye rose to be the chief of the College eS i 18-29 


* 











«’SMAVZV'T ,, 
anoA ‘ssa0ons pue o1ej[am oinyny sno 3103 saystm Ajrvay Auvur 
UIA ‘UTeUo. [ YOIYA Jo uoIssaidxa ay} YIM ‘syURY} Jsot90UIs AW ssaadxo 
0} dU SadI[qO YOM AINOA YM oWIeU AW pajyooUUOD osAeY NOA JeYL,, uy f> 
[JOS UBOLIOWIY UO pazyeUlWINSUOD SEM ‘WIOIP! UJopow v& OUI pnu[ey Oe. 
a[OYM JY} JO UOT} EISURI] DY} ‘YSe] poysl|dwosoe-JaAOU puUv paJISap-19Ao 
SIY} Jey} IORI BY? JO pnold aq [[TM ‘;eoz AYWoMasteid Yyons YM wslepnf 


JO 90U9I0Ss ay} JO UOTJOWOId 9y} 0} UN} OYM ‘sMaf UvOTIOWY ay],, f 
pout at sag ot pons SIGS os eel 


-Woo0R aq YIOM IULSIS ev yons uvoO—, pnu[e], ay} Jo vas sJOYM, 23} 

posojseu sey OY joTId [NJI[Ls ve Aq passassod yey] pue—ASsoua Surjun / 

YSno1y) pue pajewnsa oq JouULS YOIYM VoUaZIIIp & Jo suvaU Aq A[UO ey} A etc ” LX c TDY sh y 

‘JaAamoy ‘Mouy [ ‘aspnl 0} uorysod e ul jou we yulod }eYy} UO dDUaYy ¥ , 3f 

‘pausgouoo st oSensur] ysi[suq ay} sev Ivy Os UeWAL] & ING We |] JO; ‘Daz brel ry ee fe Jan WO . Rete of 
¢ 





-tod st y10M INOA Avs ap atom Alayey SUIATBep & aq PpjnoOM yy, ‘syuUeyy 
ysotjivoy Au Jojat9yi yda00e 03 noA Jo Boaq | pue souoy ysty e ow uodn ‘an 7 oof —~y, oy Be 
peisajuOo sAeY NOX ‘uUYyey 90pez ‘voueIYy JO UIQqeY puesy ay} ANoIsuO| ‘i e VS oe ¢ ‘ . « 

yw uorounfuoo ur ‘aul 0} pnuljey ueruo[Aqeg 9y} jo (F1) ‘TA awWNOA 

jo uone[sues ysi[suq 3nod azeorpap 07 ySnous puly Useq savy NOX ,, pistes 4+) A ° fs Zafar 4 SI Gi ily c v 


iy. al te . ‘snieze . 0. ‘ od : S. 
“WT *H 0) Jopjouned Aaja 94 jo 19 Aaq TeUTA TIO 94} Jo WOH VTSUEy YS fom ey vA Saray fS <4 hak 
; tell VPA? Ot Pm on Oo vy 
Iyyy, go Ft Wigbon yp 2omm fry oy 


syn oY Ia Gi TY IYO 


| anor tl beds : 
we Bip fom yyy A ora WELL TO POTS YO? 
aod Pm rxfofiny 9 fern otf pon BO PZ 7 Poe 
Sy ye yp oe Phy ge pe pe I FTI 
‘PP mwey~eylmw myo. py “doo A 772 (A ‘ 
Sorry f ty) * SO Mepery A weey) romnye Yo tory f**4 wn Kaye fr 
7 ye Ey SAeyopry ror fronf om Aft 2o 4 TP PP 
29> fF p 5 ge + agluy 
ed Armory Gio pro apg Ff jf ALOT oe 


Ly Bm nthe a0 for (2 OG) OMI 
Bh aS am wher Z/) Ve 


page waofiy § <9. SCE ray & 





REPVELIC QVE FRANCAISE } 
: reid 


MINISTERE DU COMMERCE, DEL! INDUSTRIE DES ROSTES ET DES TELEGRAPHES 


19 OQ« 


ERNE UN DIPLOME DE 


AMERICAINS : 


A New-Yor.~ 


Groupe Ill. — Crasse 13. 


LE eee DU COMMERCE, 
DES POSTES ET. DES TELE: 


a bein xe ‘ 


LE COMMISSAIRE GENERAL 
‘ : PARIS, bE 1 AOUT 




















Reproduction of the Grand Prize Diploma for tine first translation (into a modern language) of the Babylonian Talmud. The name of the translator leads those 
in Group III., Class 13, of the American Collective Exhibit. Presented by the International Jury of Awards, August 18, 1900. 


ENDORSEMENTS 


Rev. Dr. B. Szo.p, 


Rabbi of the Cong. ‘‘ Oheb Shalom,” of 
Baltimore. 





BALTIMORE, Jan. 16, 1895. 


Rev. M. L. Rodkinson, a renowned 
Hebrew scholar of repute and _ ability, 
happening to be in Baltimore, called on 
me in connection with his project of edit- 
ing his work to be known as the ‘‘ Ancient 
Short Talmud.” He laid before me a 
number of Hebrew proof sheets of the 
treatise ‘‘ Berachoth” and the whole of 
the treatise ‘‘ Sabbath” in manuscript, 
and asked me to read with an eye of a 
critic his work, to the end that if it ap- 
peared to me valuable I should testify to 
its merit and its purpose. 

I very carefully read sixteen chapters of 
the MS. of treatise ‘‘ Sabbath,” and it af- 
Sords me the greatest pleasure to state that 
I notonly conscientiously consider the work 
of extraordinary merit and value at this 
time, but that I was exceeding pleased to 
Jind that the editor has carefully arranged 
the text of the Talmud most consecutively 
and logically. 

He facilitates the reading of the Tal- 
mud considerably on account of this ex- 
cellent orderly arrangement. The com- 
mentary of Rashi was also arranged to 
meet the requirements suiting this edi- 
tion, and the editor has not added any 
explanations of his own, nor altered the 
wording of the text. 

Although the contents of the Talmud 
were familiar to me from my youth, yet 
this new arrangement made delightful 
reading and brought new light. 7he 
reader can now read the text intelligently, 





Sor itseems astf the waters of the Talmud 
flow directly from their source, and there- 
fore it is with the sincerest pleasure that 
I hope the work will meet with the 
greatest success. 

Every scholar will readily understand 
the necessity of such an admirable work 
at the present time, when the study of the 
Talmud in its voluminous shape will not, 
without deep and difficult study, infuse 
the student with a knowledge of all its 
intricacies and fine points. In the Tal- 
mud as formulated and abridged by Mr. 
Rodkinson, however, where all unneces- 
sary repetitions and dispensable debates 
are discarded, the student will be able to 
gain a fair knowledge of all desirable and 
attractive points at the cost of very little 
time and trouble. 

These considerations have constrained 
me to overstep my well-defined limita- 
tions, and to beg all friends of our na- 
tionality and its estimable old literature 
to encourage and aid this able author to 
the end that success may crown his valua- 
ble and much desirable efforts in this 
direction. 

Let this tribute of mine to truth and 
righteousness be a testimonial for the 
coming generations of the high esteem 
felt by our contemporaries of the roth 
century toward the Talmud and our na- 
tional traditions, and how ready we were 
to encourage those who made the Tal- 
mudical study the aim of their existence. 

With the assurance of the satisfactory 
results which will obtain to all Talmudi- 
cal students by a perusal of this abridged 
Talmud, 

I am, very respectfully, 
B. Szoup. 


9 


Rev. Dr. M. JAsTROW, 


Rabbi of ‘‘ Rodelph Shalom” Cong., of 
Philadelphia. 





GERMANTOWN, Oct. 5, 1894. 
DEAR SIR: 

At your request I take pleasure in 
stating my opinion that your planned 
edition of an abridged Talmud will bea 
great benefit to students, who will be 
spared the wading through the intricate 
discussions frequently interspersed with- 
out direct bearing on the subject treated. 
An English translation of the book so 
abridged will then be, though not an easy, 
yet a possible labor. 

Wishing your enterprise the full suc- 
cess it deserves, I am, 

Very respectfully yours, 
M. JASTROW. 

To Mr. Michael L. Rodkinson. 


Pror. Dr. M. MIELZINER, 
of Cincinnati. 





Having perused some advance sheets 
of a part of the abridged Talmud edition 
which Mr. Michael L. Rodkinson is about 
to publish, I find his work to be very 
recommendable. Such a Talmud edition, 
in which all unnecessary digressions and 
all disturbing interpolations are judi- 
ciously omitted and in which the text is 
provided with punctuation marks, will 
greatly facilitate the study of the Talmud, 
especially for beginners. 

I trust that the friends of our ancient 
literature will liberally support this 
scholar, and enable him to complete this 
useful work, 

Dr. M. MIELZINER, 
Prof. H. U. College. 

CINCINNATI. 


Rev. Dr. K. KOHLER, 
Rabbi of the Cong. ‘‘ Beth-El,” of New 
York. 





New York, Feb. 12, 1895. 
DEAR SIR: : 

I gladly and heartily endorse the opin- 
ion expressed by Prof. Lazarus and the 
Rev. Drs. Jastrow, Mielziner, and Szold, 
as to the merits of your planned edition 





of the Talmud. I also consider an 
abridged edition of the Talmud, while 
omitting the many interpolations which 
tend to confuse the reader and facilitating 
the study by the addition of modern 
punctuation marks, would render the 
reading of the difficult passages a pleas- 
ure rather than a task, a benefit for the 
scholarly world, both Jews and Gentiles, 
and I can only recommend the work to 
the support of generous-hearted patrons 
of our so little subsidized Jewish litera- 
ture, 

Dr. K. KOHLER, 
To Michael L. Rodkinson. 
; Rev. Dr. FELSENTHAL, 
Rabbi of the Cong. ‘‘ Zion,” of Chicago. 





CHICAGO, Feb. 14, 1895. 
Mr. MICHAEL L. RODKINSON, 
New York City. 
DEAR SIR: 

The fact cannot be denied that the 
Talmud, as it has been handed down to 
us, is very voluminous, and that, further- 
more, by the intricacies of the dialectics 
prevailing therein and by the labyrinthi- 
cal methods pursued in the same, it can- 
not be fully mastered except by scholars 
who devote their lives, their days, and 
their nights almost exclusively to the study 
of this grand branch of ancient literature. 
In our present times and in countries 
where of necessity all students, rabbis in- 
cluded, have to pursue other branches of 
learning also, such an exclusive devotion 
to Talmudical studies is out of the ques- 
tion. For the majority of the students, 
and especially for those who, in colleges 
or in other ways, begin to study the Tal- 
mud, an abridgment of the same—such an 
abridgment by which the more important 
parts of the Talmud would be contracted 
into a narrower compass and many of its 
difficulties would be avoided—will be very 
desirable, especially if by the inserting of 
punctuation marks into the text and by 
explanatory notes at the bottom of its 
pages or at the end of the various volumes 
the reading and the understanding of the 
Talmudical extracts will be facilitated. 

I would recommend therefore your in- 
tended publication of an epitomized Tal- 


to 





mud to all friends of Jewish literature in 
general and to students of Theological Col- 
leges especially. And may the wealthier 
ones among our coreligionists, even if 
they themselves are personally unable to 
read and enjoy such literature, neverthe- 
less patronize your great undertaking and 
follow the example given by the wealthy 
merchants among the Zebulunites who 


supported the less wealthy students of our 
sacred literature belonging to the tribe of 
Issachar. 

May you then succeed in furnishing us 
with an abridged Talmud in which espe- 
cially the pedagogical requirements of a 
work of this kind will have been satisfied ! 


Respectfully, 





B. FELSENTHAL. 


EF 


Rev. Dr. M. JAsTROw, 


Rabbi of ‘‘ Rodelph Shalom” Cong., of 
Philadelphia. 





GERMANTOWN, Oct. 5, 1894. 
DEAR SIR: 

At your request I take pleasure in 
stating my opinion that your planned 
edition of an abridged Talmud will bea 
great benefit to students, who will be 
spared the wading through the intricate 
discussions frequently interspersed with- 
out direct bearing on the subject treated. 
An English translation of the book so 
abridged will then be, though not an easy, 
yet a possible labor. 

Wishing your enterprise the full suc- 
cess it deserves, I am, 

Very respectfully yours, 
M. JASTROW. 

To Mr. Michael L. Rodkinson. 


Pror. Dr. M. MIELZINER, 
of Cincinnati. 





Having perused some advance sheets 
of a part of the abridged Talmud edition 
which Mr. Michael L. Rodkinson is about 
to publish, I find his work to be very 
recommendable. Such a Talmud edition, 
in which all unnecessary digressions and 
all disturbing interpolations are judi- 
ciously omitted and in which the text is 
provided with punctuation marks, will 
greatly facilitate the study of the Talmud, 
especially for beginners. 

I trust that the friends of our ancient 
literature will liberally support this 
scholar, and enable him to complete this 
useful work. 

Dr. M. MIELZINER, 
Prof. H. U. College. 

CINCINNATI. 


Rev. Dr. K. KouLer, 
Rabbi of the Cong. ‘‘ Beth-El,” of New 
York. 





New York, Feb. 12, 1895. 
DEAR SIR: ; 

I gladly and heartily endorse the opin- 
ion expressed by Prof. Lazarus and the 
Rev. Drs. Jastrow, Mielziner, and Szold, 
as to the merits of your planned edition 





of the Talmud. I also consider an 
abridged edition of the Talmud, while 
omitting the many interpolations which 
tend to confuse the reader and facilitating 
the study by the addition of modern 
punctuation marks, would render the 
reading of the difficult passages a pleas- 
ure rather than a task, a benefit for the 
scholarly world, both Jews and Gentiles, 
and I can only recommend the work to 
the support of generous-hearted patrons 
of our so little subsidized Jewish litera- 
ture, 

Dr. K. KOHLER. 
To Michael L. Rodkinson. 
; Rev. Dr. FELSENTHAL, 
Rabbi of the Cong. ‘‘ Zion,” of Chicago. 





CHICAGO, Feb. 14, 1895. 
Mr. MICHAEL L. RODKINSON, 
New York City. 
DEAR SIR: 

The fact cannot be denied that the 
Talmud, as it has been handed down to 
us, is very voluminous, and that, further- 
more, by the intricacies of the dialectics 
prevailing therein and by the labyrinthi- 
cal methods pursued in the same, it can- 
not be fully mastered except by scholars 
who devote their lives, their days, and 
their nights almost exclusively to the study 
of this grand branch of ancient literature. 
In our present times and in countries 
where of necessity all students, rabbis in- 
cluded, have to pursue other branches of 
learning also, such an exclusive devotion 
to Talmudical studies is out of the ques- 
tion. For the majority of the students, 
and especially for those who, in colleges 
or in other ways, begin to study the Tal- 
mud, an abridgment of the same—such an 
abridgment by which the more important 
parts of the Talmud would be contracted 
into a narrower compass and many of its 
difficulties would be avoided—will be very 
desirable, especially if by the inserting of 
punctuation marks into the text and by 
explanatory notes at the bottom of its 
pages or at the end of the various volumes 
the reading and the understanding of the 
Talmudical extracts will be facilitated. 

I would recommend therefore your in- 
tended publication of an epitomized Tal- 


to 


—— a 








=<, eS ee 





mud to all friends of Jewish literature in 
general and to students of Theological Col- 
leges especially, And may the wealthier 
ones among our coreligionists, even if 
they themselves are personally unable to 
read and enjoy such literature, neverthe- 
less patronize your great undertaking and 
follow the example given by the wealthy 
merchants among the Zebulunites who 


supported the less wealthy students of our 
sacred literature belonging to the tribe of 
Issachar. 

May you then succeed in furnishing us 
with an abridged Talmud in which espe- 
cially the pedagogical requirements of a 
work of this kind will have been satisfied ! 


Respectfully, 
B. FELSENTHAL. 





XR 


SOME PRESS COMMENTS 


SINCE we commenced the translation of the Talmud many favorable 
reviews have been passed upon it in periodicals of both continents, 
which have devoted to it column upon column, too numerous for us to 
mention in detail. Some of these reviews were printed in 1895 by the 
New Amsterdam Book Company in their prospectus ; namely, from 
the Boston Transcript, Boston Herald, Menorah, Cincinnati Engutrer, 
Baltimore American, Syracuse Standard, Cleveland Leader, Baltimore 
Sun. 

In 1896 and subsequently up to the present time there have 
appeared favorable reviews and notices in numerous periodicals, of 
which we give a partial list : Hartford Post, Washington Z7mes, Balti- 
more American, Boston Globe, Boston Congregationalist, Boston Beacon, 
Detroit vee Press, St. Paul Globe, Minneapolis Journal, New York 
Book Buyer, New York Sun, New York Outlook, New York Times, 
New York Jndependent, New York Zvangelist, New York Herald 
(January, 1897), New York Christian Intelligence, Columbus Press- 
Post, Philadelphia Press, Philadelphia Zp7scopal Recorder, Reading 
Times, American Israelite. As it is impossible for us to give citations 
from all of them, we content ourselves with a clipping from the Home 
Library (New York, 1897-98) and a few words from other publications 
in the same spirit. 


Babylonian Talmud, New Edition of 
the : English Translation: Original Text 
Edited, Formulated, and Punctuated. By 
Michael L. Rodkinson. Revised and 
Corrected by the Rev. Dr. Isaac M. 
Wise, President Hebrew Union College, 
Cincinnati, Ohio. Five Volumes Pub- 
lished (1896-97). To be Completed in 
about Twenty Volumes. An edition in 
English Translation of the whole Talmud 
thoroughly cleared of confusion and cor- 
ruption, and brought into a readable and 
intelligible form, in which it can be un- 
derstood in its vast range of interest, and 
judged upon its real merits as the great 
Jewish encyclopedia of religion, ethics, 
education, law, history, geography, medi- 


Zz 





cine, mathematics, and in fact knowledge 
and opinion on every branch of thought 
and action. Dr. Wise speaks of the work 
as ‘‘ Rodkinson’s reconstruction of the 
original text of the Talmud,” which is 
confessed to have been in a very bad 
state, from irrelevant matter thrust in by 
later hands, and even by hostile hands, 
and from corruptions such as works ex- 
isting for ages in manuscript, and suc- 
cessively copied by scribes sometimes 
careless of accuracy and often free with 
changes or additions, are liable to. Dr. 
Rodkinson’s perfect mastery of the He- 
brew, and his comprehensive knowledge 
of the true Talmudical facts, with his 
admirable grasp of high ideals, and con- 


= 








fidence that they are the ideals of his race 
and of the Talmud, have enabled him 
to reconstruct the original text and to 
give a clear and readable rendering of it 
in English, by which for the first time 
the Talmud is made as accessible to the 
English reader as the books of the Old 
Testament. In Dr, Rodkinson’s repre- 
sentation, ‘‘the Talmud is not a com- 
mentary on the Bible.” It is not a body 
of dogma to be enforced, but of opinions 
to be considered ; ‘‘ not the decisions, but 
the debates of the leaders of the people ;” 
‘*not a compilation of fixed regulations,” 
but a book of ‘‘ liberty, both mental and 
religious,” knowing ‘‘no authority but 
conscience and reason.” The extreme 
freedom of suggestion and statement used 
by those who speak in it, the special rea- 
sons for many of its laws, such as the 
desire to break from the neck of the peo- 
ple the yoke of the priests, and the vein 
of humor running through much that 
seems most objectionable, are insisted on 
by Dr. Rodkinson as showing that ‘‘ noth- 
ing could be more unfair, nothing more 
unfortunate than to adopt the prevailing 
false notions about this ancient encyclo- 
pedia.” 

Dr. Rodkinson’s work is thus not only 
a definitive English-Hebrew Talmud, for 
popular reading as well as for study of 
Jewish lore of every kind, but it is an in- 
terpretation to the modern mind of a vast 
monument of Hebrew life and thought, 
the value of which cannot be exaggerated. 
Vols. i. and ii. of the work give ‘Tract Sab- 
bath’ in 390 pages. Vol. iii. gives ‘ Tract 
Erubin,’ 250 pages, in which are embodied 
the famous Rabbinical devices for getting 
round the prohibitions of ‘ Tract Sabbath.’ 
Vol. iv. has ‘Tract Shekalim,’ which is 
all about a sacred half-shekel tax, paid 
byevery Israelite at twenty years of age, 
and ‘ Tract Rosh Hashana’ (or New Year), 
232 pages. There are twelve of these 
‘Tracts’ forming the first section of the 
entire work, called ‘ Moed’ (Festivals). 
The whole of Dr. Rodkinson’s colossal 
task includes a new Hebrew text, some 
parts of which, to fill gaps in the com- 
mentary sections, he has himself composed 
from materials given in the Palestinian 


“Talmud or in Maimonides. 





The entire 
work is sufficiently advanced to make its 
early completion secure. The reader of 
Dr. Rodkinson’s own writings easily rec- 
ognizes in his mastery of English style, 
and his high mental and ethical qualifi- 
cations, ample assurance of his ability 
to make his Reconstructed Talmud an 
adequate text-book of the learning and 
the liberal spirit of modern Reformed Ju- 
daism. To Christian scholars, teachers, 
and students of liberal spirit, his work 
must be most welcome.—Home Library. 


Looking at Mr. Michael L. Rodkin- 
son’s work as literature, it is a production 
which has required a vast amount of 
knowledge and infinite patience, The 
knowledge of the Hebrew has been pro- 
found, and the intricacies of the text are 
all made clear and plain. The testimony 
of the much-respected President of the 
Hebrew Union College, the Rev. Isaac 
M. Wise, is the strongest of indorse- 
ments. An amazing mass of material in 
these two volumes will delight the eth- 
nologist, the archeologist, and the folk- 
lorist, for certainly, before the publication 
of this work, access to the Talmud has 
been well-nigh impossible to those who 
were not of the Semitic origin.—New 
York Times, ‘‘Saturday Review,” June 
Ig, 1897. 

Until now it has been impossible that 
the Talmud should have any extensive 
influence upon modern thought. It has 
been practically almost inaccessible even 
to Hebrew students. Many at- 
tempts have been made by editing to 
make its contents more available, but 
until a thorough textual revision had been 
completed, these attempts were in fact 
hopeless, Rabbi Rodkinson has at last 
effected this textual revision.—Zvangelist, 
November 18, 1897. 


Here is a work which is a credit to 
American Judaism ; a book which should 
be in every Jewish home ; a literary pro- 
duction without which no library will be 
complete; a work whose character will 
rank it with the first dozen of most im- 
portant books.— The American Israelite. 


13 


There can be no question that its trans- 
lator has rendered a welcome service 
to literature. — Zhe Tablet, London, Oc- 
tober 2, 1897. 


A stupendous work, almost as signifi- 
cant to the Jewish layman as the Bible to 
the Gentile, and of most engrossing inter- 
est to scholars of all denominations, is the 
translation of the Talmud. The Talmud 
is the ritual statute book, and last author- 
ity of the Jew. Seven millions of Jews 
adhere to its teachings. The reading of 
the Talmud in the original is beset with 
many and peculiar difficulties. Its repe- 
titions, strange idioms, epigrammatic style, 
intricacies of thought and speech, and 
boundless range of subject, have made its 
perusal a puzzle. But Dr. Rod- 
kinson has dared brave the meshes, and 
he has, with the success known by appre- 
ciative scholars, carefully unravelled and 
eliminated the problems of the work. He 
now presents the text consecutive and 
clear.—Washington Zimes. 


The importance of this work, alike to 
Jewish and non-Jewish scholars, will be 
appreciated by those who know not only 
what incomparable value is placed upon 
the Talmud as a storehouse of rabbinical 
Judaism, but what the difficulties are in 
making for the first time an exhaustive, 
systematic and philologically accurate text 
of this great literary monument of Jewish 
thought and mind.—Philadelphia Press. 


We are glad to have an English trans- 





lation of a book which is at once the ex- 
pression of the history of an important 
people, and the source of many of its 
modern customs. The task of the trans- 
lator is not a light one, and has, indeed, 
only been rendered possible by the zeal 
and enthusiasm of specially-equipped 
Jewish scholars.— The Congregationalist, 
Boston. 


The value as a translation and a contri- 
bution to religious literature of this new 
edition of the Talmud cannot be too 
highly estimated.—Extract from a page 
notice in Zhe Church Standard, Phila- 
delphia. 


Beyond question the publishing of this 
work in this accessible form will prove of 
great value to many students of the Bible 
who do not read in the original tongue.— 
Hartford Post. 


We scarcely need to point out that the 
undertaking now fairly launched, is one 
of unique importance.—New York Sun. 


A gigantic work long looked for and 
desired by scholars.—LZpiscopal Recorder. 


It requires some courage for Mr. Rod- 
kinson, finding that the tract ‘‘ Sheka- 
lim ” (the half-shekels paid into treasury) 
has only the Mishna with no Gemara, or 
commentary, to provide a Gemara of his 
own, in Hebrew as wellas English. . . 
— The Independent, April 7, 1898. 


14 





~ 


In our prospectus we have published some reviews of the most im- 


portant papers until April, 1898, of which we use the plates. 


We beg to 


give also a small portion of the succeeding press until July, 1903. 


... This (eighth) volume is the actual 
proof that the great Talmudist, Rodkin- 
son, will in a very short time redeem his 
promise to be ¢he first man to render the 
whole Talmud into a modern language, 
and the very first man to render any com- 
plete treatise of it into English. We 
take a special pride in Rodkinson’s gigan- 
tic work, in that it is American, and the 
English is as correct, clear, and idio- 
matic as any celebrated English scholar in 
London or Oxford could make it. We 
heartily admire also the energy, the work- 
ing force of this master mind, the like 
of which is very rare, and always was, 
Therefore, we urge again upon all friends 
of historic literature, to encourage and 
assist Mr. Rodkinson in this great enter- 
prise. Mr. Rodkinson’s clear conception 
of this literature with the numerous diffi- 
culties it offers to the student, is evident 
from the English translation, which has 
no obscurities, and nowhere stands in 
need of any commentary.—The late 
Rev. Dr. Isaac M. Wise, in American 
Israelite, August 17, 1899. 





. . . The recent American edition by Dr. 
Michael L. Rodkinson it is believed is an 
exact translation of the entire Talmud. 
To the student of history the Talmud 
opens a vast realm of research.—Queries 
and Answers, V. Y. Times Sat. Review, 
1gor. 





..+ It was left for Mr. Rodkinson, 
a Talmudic scholar depending upon his 
pen for his livelihood, to undertake this 
unpromising and gigantic task. He en- 
tered upon it six years ago, without any 
encouragement or support to speak of. 





15 


Since then he has produced volume after 
volume, at intervals of about six months, 
and the number of volumes published now 
amounts to twelve. The entire section of 
Moed (Festivals) is completed, and Juris- 
prudence is almost finished. And thus 
in spite of discouraging criticisms the 
work is steadily approaching its end. 
One cannot help admiring the pertinacity 
and industry of its author.—TZhe Jew- 
ish Chronicle, London, Sept. 6, Igor. 


... Der in der Ueberschrift genante 
Band ist bereits der dreizehnter des gan- 
zen Werkes, das im Jahre 1896 zu erschei- 
nen begonnen hat, also mit bemerkens- 
werther MRaschheit vorwartsschreitet. 
... Der Trager des ganzen Unterneh- 
mens und Urheber des Uebersetzung ist 
Michael L. Rodkinson, ein Gelehrter rus- 
sischer Herkunst, das sich in den achzi- 
ger Jahren durch hebraishe Schriften ver- 
schiedenen, zum Theile sensationellen 
Inhalt in Europa einen Namen gemacht 
hat. ...Aber in Grossen und Gan- 
zen kann man die Arbeit als Ergebniss 
hingebend Fleisses und wirklicher Ver- 
trautheit mit der Sprache und dem Geiste 
des talmudischen Schriftthums loben. . . . 
—FPester Lloyd, March 13, 1902. 


... Its interest is by no means con- 
fined to Israelites, dut is great for Gen- 
tiles as well, In the first place, the vol- 
ume, as the others of its series, throws 
brilliant light upon the peculiarly subtle 
distinctions and regulations of the He- 
brew laws... .— Pittsburg Post, April 
20, 1902. 


- 


. . + The Babylonian Talmud. Edited 
by Michael L. Rodkinson. Section Juris- 
prudence (damages), Tract Sanhedrin. 
(11x74, pp. 385.) New Talmud Publish- 
ing Company, New York. 

We congratulate the editor and trans- 
lator of that colossal work, the Babylonian 
Talmud, upon the steady progress of his 
undertaking, and American science upon 
the distinction conferred upon it by the 
first translation of the whole Talmud into 
a modern tongue, which is at present ap- 
pearing. The importance of the Talmud 
for scholars of all schools, for Jews as 
well as Christians, can hardly be over- 
rated. It is the one great commentary 
upon the customs of the times which are 
most interesting to a Christian and it 
contains the foundation of the theology 
and the law which is still in force among 
the Jews. As such it is indispensable to 
all adherents of the Hebrew faith and is 
the subject of constant study. But to 
the Christian theologian the Talmud has 
been toa large degree a sealed book, 
partly because of the language in which 
it is written and partly because of the 
expense of the only available editions. 
But the theologian is in need of it in ex- 
plaining not a little Christian theology 
which has been much misunderstood. 
We refer especially to the doctrine of the 
Atonement and original sin, neither of 
which can be understood apart from the 
Jewish theological opinion current in the 
time of St. Paul. Hitherto the only book 
of value to the theologian who was not 
able to explore the ‘‘sea of the Talmud” 
was the work by Weber, ‘‘System der 
Alt Synagogalen Palastinischen The- 
ologie,” which was not wholly reliable. 
The older works, which were still more 
tendenziés, have long since been dis- 
carded. Wehave now an available trans- 
lation of one of the greatest literary 
achievements of the past. The general 
principles upon which the learned editor 
has made his translation are, on the 
whole, excellent. He has undertaken a 
revision of the Hebrew text of the Talmud, 
a matter that was needed and which was 
in itself a vast undertaking. He has 
made a translation from that revised text, 
accompanying it with a very copious syn- 
opsis of contents prefixed to each volume. 





16 


This alone deserves the thanks of students. 
It makes much accessible that was before 
practically buried.* 





. . . Even the lay reader will find a great 
deal that is interesting in the new edition 
of *‘The Babylonian Talmud,” by Mi- 
chael L. Rodkinson. One, and possibly 
the main, reason why in more recent cen- 
turies the Talmud has received so little 
attention from the scholars of the world, 
not excepting those of the Jewish church, 
is because its efficient perusal. was always 
a task that could be accomplished only 
with difficulty. The editor of the volume 
in question has succeeded in eliminating 
the majority of the abstruse obstructions 
and has rendered his work fairly intelli- 
gible to the average reader or student. 

Of course it is not to be supposed that 
the Talmud, no matter how translated or 
edited, will attract‘any great attention in 
this age, or any future age. Its ancient 
laws can be regarded now with little more 
than curiosity, and with gratification at 
the thought that the race has progressed 
so far toward a perfect civilization. But 
for those who may wish to dive into the 
mystic depths of Talmudic lore, the Rod- 
kinson edition is by far the best for that 
purpose. It is simplified about as much as 
could be expected, as will be immediately 
recognized by those who have struggled 
with other Talmud translations. An in- 
teresting point taken up by the author 
refers to the time of the establishment of 
the Sanhedrin or Supreme Council of the 
Hebrew race.—Pittsburg Post,May 17, 


1903. 


... The Babylonian Talmud. New 
edition. Formulated and translated by 
Michael L. Rodkinson. Vol. V. Section 
Jurisprudence—Tract Baba Bathra, Vols. 
VII., VIII. (in one)—Tract Sanhedrin. 
New York: New Talmud Publishing Co. 

These two volumes cover, in part, the 
section of the Talmud which deals with 
Jewish law. The minuteness of the de- 
cisions as to sale or rental of land, houses 
or animals, or to the qualifications of 
judges and the conditions of capital pun- 

* Further, the author of this article criticised 
some of our explanatory remarks, to which an 


answer is given in the Introduction to Volume 
XVIL., p. viii— Baltimore Sun, April 17, 1903- 





ishment, is something amazing to the 
uninitiated, and of real interest to any one 
who for scholarly purposes or curiosity 
will browse in this forest. To the ordi- 
nary reader the most interesting portion 
will be the last chapter, which gives the 
haggadas, or imaginative stories, of a 
religious sort. We again commend this 
monumental work to the biblical student, 
or the student of Hammurabi’s Code, and 
hope that Dr. Rodkinson may live to fin- 
ish the two or three dozen volumes yet to 
appear.—/ndependent, 1903. 


... 1 have so often dwelt upon the ex- 
cellency of this important work that it 
requires no further words of mine. In- 
telligent people among the reading classes 
cannot be otherwise than desirous of 
having access to such a famous piece of 
literature as the Talmud, and as the 
translation is the only one in the English 
language it certainly should find its way 
into the libraries of all who make any 
pretensions to be looked upon as well 
read.—Chicago Isr., Aug. 26, 1899. 


... This eighth volume of Dr. Rod- 
kinson’s enormous undertaking—nothing 
less than the translation of the entire 
Talmud into readable English—proceeds 
with most commendable rapidity.—Jxde- 
pendent, Sept. 28, 1899. 


... There can be little doubt of the 
great value of such a translation as this. 
All students of primitive law and custom, 
of foltk-of-love and the transmission of 
stories will find in it rich material. This 
the book may be commended not only to 
those interested, but also to the wider 
public.—Zve. Post and Nation, Nov. 3, 


1899. 


... The importance of Mr. Rodkin- 
son’s work need not be questioned. The 
Talmud as he has translated it will take 
its place in all theological and well-ap- 
pointed libraries, indifferent as to creed. 
—N. Y. Times Sat. Rev., Nov. 25, 1899. 


... The Babylonian Talmud made its 
appearance in fourteen heavy folio vol- 
umes without a vowel point being seen 





17 


from the first page of the first volume to 
the last page of the last... The task 
that the learned Doctor has undertaken is 
a Herculean one; but thisis the eighth 
volume of it, and his work has been fa- 
vorably commented on by many eminent 
Rabbinical scholars. — Montreal Star, 
March 3, Igoo. 


... Mr. Rodkinson must be admired 
for the courage, perseverance and un- 
tiring industry he has undertaken to pre- 
sent to the English-speaking public the 
successive volumes of the Talmud. It is 
a gigantic work to carry out single- 
handed, and deserves the support of all 
who are interested in the Encyclopedia 
of seven centuries of the life of Jewish 
spirit as it found expression in law, in 
spiritual interpretation, etc.—V. Y. Times 
Sat. Review, July 7, 1900. 


... The theologian and historian phi- 
losophy, as well as the man of general 
culture, will find extremely interesting 
data in these form tracts. They are rich 
in incidents of value for the history of 
civilization as concerning facial manners 
and conditions of life. In short, just 
that which is calculated to interest the 
student of human nature and the ethics 
of nations is here given us copiously. 
Judaism is here presented in the words of 
his sages and saints, but also its men of 
practical sagacity.—Am. Jsrae/., Vol. 47, 
N. 4, July 26, rgoo. 


..+ His last volume, the ninth in the 
order of publication and the first of the 
section of Jurisprudence, treating as it 
does the ethics of the fathers, is especially 
praiseworthy. The difference between 
this volume and its predecessors is, that 
they are to the ordinary reader like 
deserts with a pleasant spot here and 
there, while this is a garden of flowers— 
a summery realm where rocks show green 
growth.—Hebrew Standard, Aug. 10, 


1900. 


... You must be able to translate not 
only from Hebrew into English, but from 
the first and second to the twentieth cen- 
tury, if you would understand the Tal- 
mud. Your view must retain the essen- 


tial and the permanent and release the 
temporary and trivial. You must know 
the spirit of the tintings, and be able 
to convert the solid chunks of raw 
golden metal, in the form of episode, 
tale and tradition, into evident ethical 
coin of the realm. If you are able to do 
this, you are prepared to read this trans- 
lation of the Talmud appreciatively and 
with good results.—/Jewish Exp., Phila- 
delphia, Aug. 10, Ig00. 


... 1 think that the work will be a de- 
sirable addition to the library of every 
lover of Jewish literature.—Emil G. 
Hirsch, Rabbi Sinai Cong., Prof. Univ. 
Chicago, Apr. 12, 1899. 


...Itis curious that while Indian law 
and the legal systems of other still more 
primitive peoples have been studied and 
analyzed by professional students of the 
history of law the Jewish codes and the 
codes of Islam have met with little atten- 
tion... Dr. Rodkinson’s work may there- 
fore be commended not only to students 
of things Jewish, but also to students of 
comparative law. ... The book is like a 
sheep’s head, ‘‘ of a fine mixed feeding,” 
and not only the jurist, but the student of 





18 


folk-love and human nature generally, 
will find advantage and entertainment in 
it.—Vation, N. Y., Nov. 15, 1900, and 
March 21, Igor. 





... Dr. Rodkinson’s work of translat- 
ing the Talmud into English is making 
good progress... there is no more inter- 
esting statement quoted than that attrib- 
uted to Rabbi Johanan, who said that 
Jerusalem was destroyed because they 
used the exact law only and never mod- 


erated it.—/ndependent, N. Y., Jan. 17, 


IgOI. 


...Itis certainly the most wonderful 
work ever prepared, comprising in its 
scope science, physics, jurisprudence, 
and, in short, laws for every condition 
and circumstance of human life.—Denver 
Times. 





.+-It is one of the miracles of history 
that a work which for centuries has been 
persecuted, maligned, misinterpreted, 
burnt, censured, expurgated, as if the 
spirit of evil and darkness were enshrined 
within, should become at last the sub- 
ject of international study and receive 
the honor of translation or paraphrase in 
French, Germanand English.—2altimore 
Sun, July 25, 1901. 


ee 





BOOKS, PAMPHLETS, PERIODICALS, AND BOOKS BY 
OTHER WRITERS PUBLISHED BY THE 
AUTHOR OF THIS WORK. 


In his youth (18 to 20): ‘‘ Urim-VeTumim H’chadosh” (a new fate-booklet), 
‘* Edath-Zadikim ” (Congregation of Righteous), ‘‘ Sippurei Zadikim” (Legends of 
Righteous), ‘‘ Shebhochii H’Rabh” (Praises of the Rabbi), all of them Lemberg, 
1855; ‘‘ Hithragshuth H’Nephesh” (Aspiration of the Soul), in Zohar version 
(recently published in a prayer-book omitting the name of the author), Lemberg, 1865. 

** Mozath-Mizva-V’Eliluth-H’Dam ” (Unleaven Bread and the Blood Accusation), 
Presburg, 1882, ‘*‘ Lebhaker-Mishpat” (Investigation of Justice), Berlin, 1883, 
‘* Aben-Horoshe” (Corner Stone), Berlin, 1883, and Aben Sapir” (Sapphire Stone), 
Presburg, 1885; the first treats about Reform in Judaism and the second the criticism 
by Krochmal and Lilienbloom on the ‘‘ Tephila-L’ Moshe,” with the answers of the 
author. ‘‘ Barkaye,” Vol. I, against S. I. Bloch, Vol. II., a monthly, Wien, 1887, 
‘* Agereth-P’thucho Le H’Rabbonim ” (An Open Letter to the Rabbis), and ‘‘ Agereth 
Ha-Talmud Ha-Shenith” (The Second Letter About the Talmud), Presburg, 1886, 
‘* Maamar-Ha’Issuth” (A Wedding-Present), ‘‘ Ahabhath Adam” (Human Love), 
Vienna, 1886, a pamphiet : ‘‘ The Jewish Character,” first period appeared also in 
New York. 

** Tephila~-L’Moshe M’Kuzi” (Ursprung und Endwickelung des Phylacterien- 
Ritus bei-den Juden), ‘* Toldath-Baalei-Shem-Tob” (Biographie Sammtlicher Rab- 
biner), vom Jahre, 1695 to 1876, Vol. I., Israel Baal-Shem-tob nebst Geschichte der 
Frankisten, Kénigsberg, 1876, ‘‘ Emudei Chabad,” Rabbi Zalman of Loznie, Vol. 
IV. of the above-mentioned book, with an addition of the different text in the prayer- 
books of all Jewish sects, Kénigsberg, 1876. 

Periodicals : ‘* Hakol,” a weekly, in Bible language; ‘‘ Kol Leom,” a weekly, 
in Jzargon, Kénigsberg, 1876-1877, and from 1878 to 1880; the ‘‘ Hakol,” twice a 
week. At the end of 1879 the circulation of both periodicals in Russia (where the 
most subscribers were) was prohibited by the Government, and began to appear again 
once a week during 1880. From 1881 it appeared under the name ‘‘ Hachoze” in 
Berlin seventeen weeks for the Russian subscribers, and was again prohibited ; also, 
in 1882, two weeklies, named ‘‘ The Prophet of Hamburg” and ‘‘ Hamburger 
Israelit,” were issued for the Russian reader, and by the numbers 9 were again pro- 
hibited. The ‘“‘ Hakol” appeared also in Vienna one year, and also in New York 
twenty-two weeks, and thereafter ‘‘ The Defender,” both in pure Hebrew, and by the 
seventeenth number stopped. 

Monthlies : ‘Asephath H’chamin ” (The Assembly of Wise), Kénigsberg, 1879, 
which was prohibited by the Russian Government at the sixth number, and ‘ ‘ Ham- 
easeph” (The Compilator) in the same place 1879-1880. 

In German language: ‘‘ Der Schulchan Aruch und seine Beziehungen zu den 
Juden und nicht Juden,” ‘‘ Warheit gegen Luege,” Wien, 1883-87. 

English: ‘‘ History of Amulets, Charms and Talismans,” New York, 1893. ‘‘ The 
Pentateuch, Its Languages and Its Characters,” Chicago, 1894. From 1896 to 1903 
eighteen volumes of the Talmud in English were issued. 

19 


The following books of other writers were published by the same author, supplied 
with his Prefaces and Remarks: ‘‘ Pardas,” by Rashe, Warshau, 1870 ; ‘‘ Queries 
and Answers,” by Joseph Aben Miggash, Warshau, 1870 ; ‘‘ Sheerith Israel,” by the 
Rabbi of Welednik, third edition, Kénigsberg, 1876; ‘‘ Atereth Israel,” by the 
““Maggid” of Behapoly, Zitomir, 1865; ‘‘ Egereth Bekoreth,” by Jacob Emdin, 
Zitomir, 1865 ; ‘‘ Luchuth Ha. Eduth,” by Azar Zosmir, Lemberg, 1866; and 
‘* Marpe Leom,” Zitomer, ’66, 

Jzargon: ‘‘ The Spiegel,” Adesse, 1867; ‘‘ Wigderel ben Wigderel,” Warshau, 
1870. 

MSS. : ‘‘ Rodkinson’s Eight Chapters” (an investigation about charms and 
amulets at large); ‘‘ The Fiftieth Jubilee” (a voluminous book of his autobiog- 
raphy) ; Madua” (Why) the Jewish question; ‘‘ The Patriarch Abraham,” a drama 
in eight visions, based upon the legends in Talmud and Post-Talmudic Literature; 
‘* What is the Talmud,” the first chapter of it published as an appendix to Penta- 
teuch, mentioned above. ‘‘ Remarks and Enlightenment” to each tract of both 
Babylonian and Palestinian Talmuds, Mishnayot and Tosephthas. 


20 








ao, 


Ne a i ee st OOS 








Veh 

So iN " RN 
ERAN Ay SH oy at ARORA 
wa 
a 


Wha as 
SPAWNS 


a 


MN 
v 


Ss 
“ARC Ae 


iy / 
eee ait 
Ae, AER 
LEP ania 

“i Wha 





Vonyy 
Tea Rl 
Ab Mean 


sce 
uy 
ty) Ae eA, 


~ 


iG 
wh 




















re reo de pe? 
Seek aStStose Se 
ae a eh 
> 2 
rer othi 
2) 








x 
Seats 
= 







































‘ 
c 


on” 

PET, 
ee 

re, 





“er 








= 


é 
Aes) 








(a 





7 





einre, 
Pat oof 
eeeeee 













































































































rf ~ 
Poe : i 
CAo or aes eo, 7 
ace pegte te ©, : nas 
SSL at or te Pe mi ie) 15 * 
* atesacassieieels 4S 4 *. 
gets tate f . ~ sts 
eHeingene: Sy a 
aE PS ea si ‘ 
> >? s . * x 
: SHS = 
% 4 teenged SSasateeets Reins 
$2 epee. Pe Pee PRED Red Nett 
asec Hassett: Ee 
hetero leet ge, 88g sha tate iets 
Setete Teteseletes 434) elec te tery, Isat et. RAL 
Katee > eer eon d wry eels et <I vine 
Sega merc Tetetaaattsetey BERL ones OS PS PRON DRO geisas 
Sicejecieeeiers Panieesooia eee: (ASSL 
rs Re Se ya Te! Po ee a ot Oe Phe) * 
>5 pretieasdtatereteiaes : ¢ Cra teta ain ts eta ti sats OBS 
(Satety te tatese te 4 ae. ms arte tae e oie l 4 tei ; Sete 
Since Heese RES 
+ bhogoe etesstinete ss oS} Seietiarseeiachets ahets anes ae Rags: 
eheiatecy cate aded Clea ernate tc erer tate ialeintatetee Metetee 
Ratieseinanenetnee tote Bae . 
. 42 e hoc tee * 
D3 Jeitateteseetares Sigetetatiat. Roses 
tere: 4p eeeAT el wiatets | 
yy Le Se 4 ras a" 
5) i + acetss 
2} oAfeteSatsin 4 
4° - 
FS = 





















































¢; 
etetates 


ors 






























































* 
< 285 
+ 
Ss . 
: epee armel 
ae siete 
Mehe Sosaite reso, 
os ¢ ett - 
; aE) 
ee Y 
> as 
ae - § 
3 Anae ( 
3) aia 
eae ; 
>; aot t 
tod 
25P3 358 oh 
i Sokal 
+: sasee 
> pei 
> “ 
oP Seas 
% 4 estes as» 
Bets ees. | 
>? eacger ; 
<< hy 
{ sear, | 
eter | 
aie 
vets; 
“Fleets 
ie 
430 
Sate 
etches 
Cheeta 
vate 
¢ ite 
op) 
4 
= f 
pe 
5 oe 
* te 
+t 
is 
ty. 









% 


we 






ee 
















ok hh. 





























os a. 
See 
























ee Beh 
rs es Par 
48 ase o535 





as 
Pov 
ie 














7 








*. 
P) 
es Me 
s, 
%, 
at 
> 25 
> 
> 
ras 
+ 
5 
¢ 
i, 
ne 
y ) 
+ 
: = 
pheh by 
+? 
as 
; : nietcse 
p 3) 
oo é x + 
a Getter 
ate, 
% 












































ie 
ee 

oe Soe 
S SERN 
+ Ney 
Bee 











































































ie 
ae 
<P? 
z5E 52 







. 
neds 


‘4 














“4 ie 
ena 





Avot 
té 











here 





Ries oP 
Sai tte een 

eye pee, 

a5 pice tala teh 














































































ooo 
ae 4¢4 
sigs PSF 
"6 
Talat 
rig 
4 
Bp 
Ay 
fs 
a 
SEAS $ 
pepe 2 
eae 2 
a4 es 
4 
> 
F 











































: 4 
oo eae , x3 ‘ i: 
. ) po x 
Ae, Soeseea Fats ~ b | 
52 t Sad aed eh OE See. 
sagen inusaen sent anies 
Maat ott 8G € - se 
Sticetta tater sasseaten tet tesstasieacesrsieae 
35 Diario 
Seste nies : P 
ae Aide lateentetet at : 
. > Matai ooops a ' 
C ins Pier stsc ere ee ve : 
See 4 Sob rapshshet ppt et SPD: 4 
50 SahateAaete Sih taseee ss tak 
ate PP UaRav eh staeahy proto! “ ; 
{ *) 5 

















any 






ako 





