iHiiniiil!:llllliil(iliiliilllillllllMlllliirilllllllltlll(IIJilllllli| 


£xhx<xvy  of  tire  trheolojicd  ^tminaxy 

PRINCETON  •  NEW  JERSEY 
PRESENTED  BY 

John  Stuart  Conning,  D.D. 

BM  500  .R6  1918  v. 19-20 
Talmud. 

New  edition  of  the 
Babylonian  Talmud 


THE 
HISTORY  OF  THE   TALMUD 


jfrom  tbe  Uime  of  Hts  jformation,  about 
200  B,  C,,  up  to  tbe  present  Uime 


DIVIDED  INTO  TWO  VOLUMES 

VOLUME  I.  — ITS    DEVELOPMENT   AND    THE    PERSECUTIONS    SINCE    ITS 

BIRTH    UP  TO   DATE,    INCLUDING  ALL   RELIGIOUS   DISPUTES 

AND   BRIEF  BIOGRAPHIES  OF  THE  SEPARATED  SECTS 

VOLUME  II.  — THE  HISTORICAL  AND  LITERARY  INTRODUCTION  TO  THE 

NEW  EDITION:  ETHICS,  METHOD,  WITH  ILLUSTRATIONS 

CRITICISM,  ETC. 


MICHAEL  L.  RODKINSON 


Volume  I.  (XIX.) 


Boston 

THE  TALMUD  SOCIETY 

1918 


Ok: 


Copyright,  iqo^.  bv 
MICHAEL  L.  RODKINSON 


Copyright  1916,  vr 
NEW  TALMUD  PUBUSHING  SOCIETY 


,  TO  HIM 
WHO  IS  A  LIBERAL  DONOR  TO  ALL  PHILANTHROPIC  INSTITUTIONS 
A  FRIEND  OF  ISRAEL'S  PUREST  IDEALS,  LITERATURE 
AND  RELIGION 

ADOLPH    LEWISOHN,  Esq. 

THIS  BOOK  IS  MOST  RESPECTFULLY  DEDICATED  BY  THE  AUTHOR 

MICHAEL  L.  RODKINSON 


New  York,  in  Month  Elul,  September  ist.  1903 


PREFACE. 

The  ancient  authors  used  to  begin  the  prefaces  to  their 
works  with  the  proverb  '' Sepher  he  Lo  Hakdamha  keguph  be 
Lo  nechamaha,''  which  means  "A  book  without  a  preface  is 
similar  to  a  body  without  a  soul";  and,  indeed,  this  proverb 
remains  forever  true.  At  the  time  we  began  our  translation 
of  the  Talmud,  we  were  aware  that  to  the  study  of  it  a  clear 
preface  which  should  explain  its  nature  and  the  character  of 
the  sages  mentioned  in  it  was  necessary,  as  without  it  there 
would  be  great  difficulty  for  students  in  catching  the  real 
meaning,  and  in  some  places  the  reader  would  be  confused, 
not  being  aware  of  its  history  and  of  the  names  mentioned — 
who  these  were  and  when  they  existed. 

With  this  in  mind,  we  had  already  prepared  the  present 
work  in  1897,  when  only  a  few  volumes  of  our  translation  had 
been  issued.  Although  we  gave  a  brief  general  introduction 
to  the  first  volume  of  the  translation,  and  also  some  prefaces 
and  introductions  in  the  succeeding  volumes,  they  do  not  suf- 
fice for  the  student  who  desires  to  have  a  clear  idea  of  all  that 
he  is  studying. 

However,  the  translation  has  taken  up  so  much  of  our  time 
that  it  has  hitherto  been  impossible  for  us  to  look  up  every- 
thing pertinent  to  our  purpose  that  has  been  written  and  to 
submit  it  in  presentable  form.  Now,  after  the  completion, 
with  the  Divine  help  of  the  two  large  sections,  containing 
twenty-seven  tracts,  and  in  response  to  many  inquiries  from  the 
reading  public  for  some  explanations,  we  find  that  now  is  the 
time  to  put  forth  this  work;  and,  instead  of  adding  two  more 
volumes  to  the  translation  of  the  Talmud  in  the  current  year, 
we  have  decided  to  furnish  the  two  volumes  which  form  our 
"  History  of  the  Talmud." 

It  may  be  inferred  that  what  was  written  several  years  ago 
has  had  to  be  thoroughly  revised  and  corrected,  according  to 
the  literature  which  has  appeared  since  that  time.     There  is  an 


vi  PREFACE. 

old  witticism,  " Koshe  Atika  Me  Chadtha'" ;  i.e.,  "It  is  more 
difficult  to  correct  an  old  thing  than  to  write  a  new  one  "  ;  and, 
as  a  matter  of  fact,  it  has  taken  a  great  deal  of  time  to  make 
the  necessary  changes  and  corrections  in  what  we  had  written. 
As  a  natural  consequence,  the  work  is  enlarged,  and  many 
chapters  have  been  added  since  the  issue  of  our  prospectus. 
All  this  concerns  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  as  it  relates  to 
the  history  of  the  Talmud  only,  as  to  which  there  has  been 
little  new  information.  True  there  have  been  some  new  dis- 
sertations on  the  Talmud  in  Germany,  but  they  do  not  add 
much  to  our  knowledge  concerning  it,  and  may  therefore  be 
ignored. 

The  second  volume,  however,  we  have  had  to  recast  and 
rewrite.  In  this  labor  the  wonderful  work  of  that  western 
light  which  was  recently  extinguished — we  mean  the  Rev.  Dr. 
Mielziner — "Introduction  to  the  Talmud,"  which  has  reached 
a  second  edition  and  has  been  so  favorably  received  by  all  stu- 
dents of  both  continents,  was  of  great  service  to  us.  As  Dr. 
Mielziner's  work  contains  essentially  all  that  concerns  the  Tal- 
mud itself,  we  resolved  to  take  it  as  a  text  for  our  historical 
introduction,  adding  and  abating  as  we  deemed  necessary. 
We  have  done  so,  also,  with  the  second  part,  "  The  Ethics  of  the 
Talmud,"  which  he  arranged  so  admirably.  Here,  also,  we 
have  added  whatever,  according  to  our  knowledge,  there  was 
left  for  us  to  bring  to  the  attention  of  the  reader. 

Now,  the  work  being  finished,  we  regard  it  as  a  suitable 
preface  to  our  translation  and  one  which  will  enlighten  the 
understanding  of  the  reader  in  many  places.  At  the  same  time, 
it  seems  to  us  to  be  interesting  to  the  general  reader  who  has 
neither  time  nor  inclination  for  the  study  of  the  Talmud. 

This  is  all  we  need  say  in  the  preface,  referring  the  reader 
for  more  details  to  our  introduction,  which  follows. 

The  Author. 

New  York,  SepUmber,  1903. 


CONTENTS   OF   VOLUME   I. 


PACK 

Preface      v 

Introduction i 

CHAPTER  I. 

The  Origin   of   the   Name  "Talmud."    The   Samaritans. 

Antiochus  Epiphanes.    The  Sadducees  ....        5 

CHAPTER   II. 

The  Development  of  the  Talmud  During  the  Last  Cen- 
tury OF  THE  Second  Temple's  Existence  {i.e.  The 
First  A.C.)  Shemaia.  Abtalian.  Hillel.  Shammal 
The  Princes  (Nasis)  of  Israel.  R.  Johanan  b.  Zakkai. 
Sanhedrin  of  Jamnia.     The  Jewish  Christians     .        .        7 

CHAPTER  HI. 

The  Destruction  of  the  Temple.  The  Fall  of  Bethel. 
The  Massacre  of  the  Sages  of  the  Talmud,  Till  the 
Writing  of  the  Mishna  in  the  Beginning  of  the 
Third  Century 10 

CHAPTER   IV. 

The  Third  Century.     The  Arrangement  of  the  Mishnas. 

The  Talmudic  Colleges  of  Palestine  and  Babylonia.       13 

CHAPTER    V.  * 

The  Talmud  of  Jerusalem,  the  Talmud  of  Babylonia, 
THE  Character  of  Their  Halakha  and  Hagada,  the 
Dates  of  Their  Completion  and  Their  SystemaTxZA- 
TiON 17 

CHAPTER  VI. 

The  Persecutions  of  the  Talmud  in  the  Persian  and  By- 
zantine Empires  in  the.  Sixth  Century  After  the 
Close  of  the  Talmud 23 


viii  CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER  VII. 

PACB 

The  Eighth  Century.  The  Dominion  of  the  Gaonim.  The 
Opposition  of  the  Karaites.  The  Establishment  of 
A  Sect  of  That  Name        ...        ....      25 

CHAPTER  VIII. 
Islam  and  Its  Influence  on  the  Talmud      .        .       ,        .33 

CHAPTER   IX. 

The  Victory  of  Karaism  Over  the  Spiritual  Dominion  of 
THE  Talmud  and  the  Mind  of  the  Jewish  Nation. 
The  Last  Gaonim  at  Sura  and  Pumbeditha.  The 
Centre  of  Talmudic  Study  Transferred  from  Meso- 
potamia TO  Spain.  The  Scholars  of  Kairuban.  The 
Period  of  the  Greatest  Diffusion  of  Talmudic 
Study 36 

CHAPTER   X. 

The  Spanish  Writers.     A  Brief  Survey  of  Their  Writings 

Relating  to  the  Talmud 43 

CHAPTER   XI. 

The  Scholars  of  Germany  and  of  Northern  France,  and 
What  They  Contributed  to  the  Studies  of  the  Tal- 
mud       50 

CHAPTER   XII. 
The  Doctors  of  France.     Authors  of  the  Tosphoth        .      57 

CHAPTER   XIII. 
Religious  Disputes  of  All  Periods 61 

CHAPTER  XIV. 

Reuchlin,  Pfefferkorn,  and  the  Talmud  in  the  Six- 
teenth and  Seventeenth  Centuries     ....      76 

CHAPTER   XV. 

Polemics  with  Mussulmans  and   the   Disputes  with   the 

Frankists 99 


CONTENTS.  ix 

CHAPTER  XVI. 


FAGS 


The  Persecutions  of  the  Seventeenth  Century,  the  Head 

OF  Whom  was  Johann  Andreas  Eisenmenger        .        .     104 

CHAPTER   XVn. 

The  Polemics  and  the  Attacks  Upon  the  Talmud  in  the 

Nineteenth  Century 106 

CHAPTER  XVin. 
The  Affair  of  Rholing-Block 109 

CHAPTER  XIX. 

Exilarchs  ;  the  Talmud  at  the  Stake  and  Its  Develop- 
ment AT  the  Present  Time 115 

APPENDIX  A. 

Nos.  1  TO  18  Contains  Eighteen  Explanatory  Notes  to 

THE  Text     .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .121 

No.  19  Contains  an  Extract  of  the  Conclusion  of  Our 

Review  to  Dr.  Kopf's  Book,  Mentioned  in  Text  .        .     125 

No.  20  Contains  a  Translation  of  a  Few  Pages  of  Our 
Book,  "  Der  Schulchan  Aruch  und  seine  Beziehungen 
zu  DEN  Juden  und  Nichtjuden,"  Concerning  the 
Trial  Before  the  "  Landesgerichte,"  at  Munster, 
Dec.  10,  1S83,  About  the  Accusation  of  the  Talmud 
and  Schulchan  Aruch 126 

No.  21  Letter  of  the  Theological  Seminary      .        .        .     136 

No.  22  Jewish  Encyclopedia 136 

APPENDIX   B. 

Criticism  to  Chapter  VII.  (Karaites).  The  Beliefs  of 
Sadducees,  Karaites,  and  of  the  Reformed  Jews,  and 
ALSO  About  Resurrection 138 


INTRODUCTION. 

The  persecutors  of  the  Talmud  during  the  period  ranging 
from  the  first  century  B.C.,  when  it  began  to  take  form,  to  the 
present  day,  have  varied  in  their  character,  objects  and  actions. 
In  one  respect,  however,  they  all  agreed, namely, in  their  general 
wish  to  destroy  its  existence.  Careful  consideration  of  its  many 
vicissitudes  certainly  justifies  the  assertion  that  the  Talmud  is 
one  of  the  wonders  of  the  world.  During  the  twenty  centuries 
of  its  existence  not  one  of  them  has  passed  without  great  and 
powerful  enemies  vying  with  each  other  and  exhausting  every 
effort  to  destroy  it ;  still  it  survived  in  its  entirety,  and  not  only 
has  the  power  of  its  foes  failed  to  destroy  even  a  single  line, 
but  it  has  not  even  been  able  materially  to  weaken  its  influ- 
ence for  any  length  of  time.  It  still  dominates  the  minds  of  a 
whole  people,  who  venerate  its  contents  as  divine  truth,  and 
countless  numbers  have  sacrificed  their  lives  and  their  posses- 
sions to  save  it  from  perishing. 

A  review  of  its  persecutors,  before  going  into  their  history 
would  not  be  amiss.  They  are  the  Seleucidae,  in  the  time  of 
Antiochus  Epiphanes,  the  Roman  Emperor  Nero,  Domitian, 
Hadrian,  etc.,  the  Samaritans,  the  Sadducees,  Boethuseans,  the 
followers  of  Jesus,  and  all  the  sects  opposed  to  the  Pharisees. 

Before  the  development  of  the  Talmud  had  been  completed, 
when  hardly  a  single  section  had  been  arranged  systematically 
and  written  down,  it  having  been  known  merely  as  oral  teach- 
ing in  the  mouths  of  the  sages,  and  reconsidered  and  analyzed 
constantly  by  their  disciples  in  the  colleges,  it  was  violently  at- 
tacked. But  no  sooner  had  the  Talmud  been  completed  in  Bab- 
ylonia, and  the  Saburites  had  put  their  seal  upon  it,  so  to  speak, 
deciding  that  nothing  was  to  be  added  to  or  substracted  from, 
when  Justinian  decreed  practically  its  death ;  that  is  to  say, 
what  amounted  to  the  same  thing,  capital  punishment  to  all 
those  who  were  occupied  in  its  study  (550).  Then  followed  the 
Karaites,  in  the  days  of  the  Gaonim,  who  seriously  threatened 


a  INTRODUCTION. 

its  existence.  Time  and  time  again  they  triumphed  over  Tal- 
mudic  Rabbis  and  were  near  making  an  end  of  the  Talmud  and 
of  them.  The  Rabbis  next  encountered  the  Popes.  From  the 
time  of  Pope  Innocent  III.,  the  Taknud  was  burned  at  the 
stake  in  nearly  every  century  from  the  i  ith  to  the 1 8th,  in  Italy, 
France,  Germany,  Spain,  and  many  other  countries,  and  in  the 
1 8th,  also  in  Poland  by  the  Frankists,  by  Bishop  Dembovski, 
where  copies  were  dragged  through  the  streets  of  the  city,  tied 
to  horses'  tails  and  then  delivered  to  the  executioner  to  be 
burned  at  the  stake  in  Kamenetz,  Lemberg,  Brody  and  else- 
where. In  most  places,  before  it  was  resolved  what  was  to  be 
done  with  Talmud,  the  Israelites  were  forced  to  dispute  with 
its  enemies,  and  had  to  pay  heavy  fines  for  arriving  late  to  the 
dispute,  as  well  as  for  being  vanquished  in  argument,  the  judges 
being  their  enemies.  Still  what  has  been  the  result  ?  The  Tal- 
mud exists  to-day,  and  not  one  letter  in  it  is  missing.  It  is  true, 
the  persecutions  against  it  are  not  yet  at  an  end ;  accusations 
and  calumnies  by  its  enemies,  imder  the  new  name  of  anti- 
Semites,  are  still  directed  against  it,  while  the  government  of 
Russia  legislates  against  and  restricts  the  rights  of  the  nation 
which  adheres  to  the  Talmud.  No  modem  persecutions,  how- 
ever, can  seriously  endanger  its  existence,  and  it  would  appear 
that  the  Talmud  will  also  survive  them  and  continue  as  long  as 
the  sky  spans  the  earth. 

A  desire  to  know  all  that  has  befallen  the  Talmud  and  all  its 
vicissitudes  since  its  inception  would  require  the  reading  of  all 
the  scattered  passages  in  countless  volumes  which  have  been 
compiled  in  various  ages,  languages,  and  countries.  Its  his- 
tory, however,  has  never  yet  been  written  by  a  single  author. 
Treaties  on  the  Talmud  itself,  or  on  certain  subjects  contained 
therein,  have  briefly  related  part  of  its  history,  each  according 
to  the  subject  and  the  aim  of  its  theme.  Such  are  the  works  of 
Zunz  and  Gratz,  the  one  dealing  with  rabbinical  literature,  and 
the  other  writing  concerning  the  history  of  the  Jews.  Similarly 
the  historians  of  the  world,  relating  in  detail  the  occurrences  of 
every  century,  have  briefly  made  mention  of  what  happened  to 
the  Talmud  in  each  century.  Even  in  the  year  there  appeared 
a  pamphlet  entitled  "Ankliiger  und  Vertheidiger  des  Tal- 
mud" (accusers  and  defenders),  by  Dr.  B.  Kurrein,  of 
Frankfort-on-the-Main,  apparently  giving  the  entire  history  of 


INTRODUCTION.  j 

the  Talmud  from  its  origin  to  the  present  time,  but  it  contains 
only  dates  (and  not  even  these  in  full)  and  not  occurrences.  No 
mention  is  made  of  Karaites,  who  persecuted  it  in  the  times  of 
the  Gaonim,  or  of  the  Frankists  of  the  i8th  century,  of  its  fate 
during  the  15  th  century;  the  Pfefferkorn  and  Reuchlin  episode 
is  mentioned  only  in  part,  and  by  no  means  satisfactory  to  the 
reader  curious  about  the  details,  not  to  speak  of  the  Rohling- 
Bloch,  at  the  end  of  the  1 9th  century.  It  is,  indeed,  a  matter  of 
astonishment  that  hundreds  of  books  have  been  written  about 
the  Talmud  by  exponents  of  all  sects  and  in  all  ages,  to  say 
nothing  of  the  extensive  modem  literature  dealing  with  the 
Talmud  in  whole  or  in  part,  amounting  to  thousands  of  volumes 
— in  particular  a  work,  "Dikduke  Sophrim,"  published  in  the 
last  century,  containing  only  the  dates  and  publishers '  names 
of  the  various  editions  of  the  Talmud,  in  seventeen  large  vol- 
umes,with  a  comparison  of  all  words  and  letters  of  the  different 
editions  and  manuscripts,  and  this  only  of  two-thirds  of  the 
Talmud —  the  fate  of  the  Talmud,  the  charges  brought  against 
it,  the  repeated  persecutions,  the  burning  at  the  stake,  have 
not  been  recorded  in  a  separate  work,  as  though  unworthy  of 
notice.  It  has  been  thus  left  for  us  to  supply  the  deficiency. 
For  we,  who  have  taken  upon  ourselves  the  difficult  task  of 
editing  the  old  Talmud,  to  punctuate  it  in  conformity  with 
works  in  other  languages,  to  systematize  and  arrange  it  for  a 
new  edition,  and  to  translate  it  into  a  modern  language,  deem 
it  our  duty  to  collect  into  one  book  all  the  records  of  the  vicis- 
situdes of  the  Talmud  in  a  systematic  manner,  at  the  same  time 
stating  the  causes  of  many  occurrences. 

It  is  quite  true,  that  in  many  places  we  have  been  constrained 
to  be  brief  where  a  more  ample  account  would  not  have  been  out 
of  place,  but  it  must  be  borne  in  mind  that  to  expatiate  on 
every  incident  would  lead  to  the  writing  of  a  volume  equal  in 
bulk  to  the  Talmud  itself,  perhaps  even  larger,  and  time  would 
not  permit  such  an  undertaking.  In  one  respect,  however,  we 
will  do  our  duty ;  we  will  arrange  all  the  events  chronologically, 
and  we  have  taken  pains  to  denote  the  time  and  place  of  differ- 
ent events  and  likewise  to  name  the  persecutors  of  the  Talmud. 
We  trust  this  volume  will  meet  with  a  favorable  reception  from 
the  readers,  for  our  work  was  done  conscientiously,  and  to  the 
utmost  of  our  talents.     To  save  space,  we  have  not  on  every 


4  INTRODUCTION. 

occasion  mentioned  the  authorities  from  whom  we  derived  our 
facts,  but  only  when  we  had  to  refer  the  reader  for  details  to 
other  books  we  gave  the  name  and  page  of  the  book.  We  may 
state,  however,  that  the  sources  on  which  we  have  drawn  are  all 
the  books  which  speak  of  this  subject,  viz. :  the  Talmud  itself, 
the  books  of  the  Gaonim,  and  those  written  on  this  topic  in  the 
Middle  Ages,  as  well  as  the  extensive  literature  relating  to  it  of 
the  last  century,  from  Zunz,  Jost,  Herzfeld,  Graetz,  etc.,  to  the 
pamphlet  we  have  mentioned.  At  the  conclusion  of  the  book 
the  reader  will  find  an  explanation  of  the  method  employed  in 
the  new  edition  and  translation  of  the  Talmud,  and  at  the  same 
time  a  full  introduction.  We  made  it  as  lucid  as  possible,  and 
also  endeavored  to  reply  to  some  criticisms  that  have  appeared 
in  various  periodicals  since  the  new  publication  had  first 
appeared. 

Michael  L.  Rodkinson. 

New  York,  August,  1903. 


THE    HISTORY    OF    THE    TALMUD. 


CHAPTER  I. 


THE     ORIGIN     OF    THE    NAME        TALMUD    — THE  SAMARITANS — 
ANTIOCHUS  EPIPHANES — THE  SADDUCEES. 

The  name  "written  law"  was  given  to  the  Pentateuch, 
Prophets  and  Hagiographa,  and  that  of  "oral  law"  to  all  the 
teachings  of  the  "  sages  "  consisting  of  comments  on  the  text  of 
the  Bible,  The  word  Torah  alone  was  applied  to  the  entire 
Bible,  the  term  "Talmud"  was  reserved  for  the  oral  law, 
though  the  meaning  of  these  two  words  is  identical ;  namely, 
"  teaching "  or  "  study. "  Still,  because  it  is  written  Velimdo 
(Deut.  xxxi,  19),  and  teach  it  the  children  of  Israel  (put  it  in 
their  mouths ;  that  is  to  say  that  the  teacher's  duty  was  to  ex- 
plain and  comment  on  the  laws  and  ordinances  until  the  chil- 
dren imderstood  them  thoroughly  and  were  conversant  with 
them  by  heart) — the  name  "  Talmud  "  was  applied  to  what  was 
styled  by  a  long  phrase  "  Oral  Law"  (Torah-she  b'al-Peh).  This 
word  designated  all  the  commentaries  of  the  sages  on  the  Script- 
ures which  the  Pharisees  had  begun  to  interpret  figuratively. 

Figurative  interpretation  was  inaugurated  in  the  days  of  the 
Great  Assembly  when  its  members  resolved  to  keep  themselves 
distinct  from  the  Samaritans,  their  inveterate  enemies,  who  ad- 
hered to  the  literal  interpretation  of  the  text,  which,  in  the 
opinion  of  the  Pharisees,  was  falsified  by  them.  This  study, 
however,  commenced  to  make  progress  at  the  time  of  the  San- 
hedrin,  or  from  that  of  the  Macedonian  conquest  of  Judea,  when 
the  term  "  Great  Assembly  "  was  changed  to  the  Greek  "  Sanhe- 
drin . "  It  spread  into  every  college  where  were  assembled  sages 
entrusted  with  the  guidance  of  congregations,  with  instruction 
of  the  Law,  of  ordinances  relating  to  clean  and  unclean,  to  prop- 


6  THE   HISTORY  OF  THE  TALMUD. 

erty,  to  crimes.  All  sages  who  interpreted  the  biblical  passages 
figuratively,  unlike  the  Samaritans,  were  called  "Pharisees." 
The  Samaritans  of  course  persecuted  those  Pharisees  (see  App. 
No.  i),  objected  to  their  interpretation,  and  did  them  great  in- 
jury whenever  they  had  the  power.  At  last,  Janai,  Hyrcanus 
the  First,  overcame  them,  burned  their  temple,  devastated 
their  city,  and  compelled  them  by  force  of  arms  to  conduct 
themselves  according  to  the  doctrines  of  the  Pharisees,  though 
he  himself  in  his  latter  years  became  a  Sadducee. 

Until  the  time  of  Antiochus  Epiphanes,  before  which  period 
all  the  high  priests  since  the  erection  of  the  second  temple  had 
been  of  the  family  of  Zadok,  King  David's  high  priest  (see  App, 
2),  and  the  priests  had  been  also  among  the  sages  of  the  Phari- 
sees and  no  disputes  arose  between  them  as  to  the  interpreta- 
tion of  the  law.  From  the  time  of  Antiochus,  however,  when 
the  high  priesthood  passed  from  the  descendants  of  Zadok  to 
other  families,  finally  coming  into  the  possession  of  the  Macca- 
bees, who  were  not  descendants  of  the  house  of  Zadok,  began  to 
differ  from  the  Pharisees  in  the  interpretation  of  the  Torah,  and 
to  explain  the  texts  on  the  basis  of  oral  tradition.  They 
founded  a  distinct  sect,  styled  "  Sadducees  "  (after  Zadok),  and 
the  dispute  with  the  Pharisees  and  their  teaching,  i.e.  with  the 
Talmud,  was  begun.  They  persecuted  the  Pharisees  to  the 
utmost ;  being  mostly  men  of  wealth  and  rank,  and  in  their 
hearts  leaning  toward  the  Hellenes,  who  then  held  sway  in  Pal- 
estine, they  joined  the  Samaritans,  the  foes  of  the  Jews,  whose 
aim  was  to  eradicate  the  study  of  Judaism.  Thus  united,  they 
gave  their  aid  to  Antiochus  Epiphanes,  who  was  anyhow  the 
enemy  of  the  Jews,  and  who  decreed  on  the  pain  of  capital  pun- 
ishment that  the  Pharisees  should  discontinue  their  studies, 
that  circumcision  should  be  performed  in  a  manner  other  than 
that  prescribed  by  the  Pharisees  (see  App.  No.  3) ;  that  the  Sab- 
bath should  not  be  observed  according  to  the  interpretation  of 
the  Sabbath  law  by  the  Pharisees,  etc.  The  obvious  intention 
was  to  destroy  the  Talmud  together  with  Pharisees  who  adhered 
to  it.  These  persecutions  against  the  Talmud  ended  usually  in 
favor  of  the  Sadducees  until  the  time  of  Simon  ben  Shetah,  and 
the  above  mentioned  Janai,  Hyrcanus  I.  (Johanan  the  High 
Priest).  Then  the  Pharisees  triumphed  over  their  foes,  and  the 
oral  law  was  the  absorbing  subject  of  the  Sanhedrin,  under  the 


THE   FIRST  A.  C.  y 

leadership  of  Joshuahb.  Prachia,  Simon  b.  Shetah  and  Jehudah 
b.  Tabai.  The  Talmud  was  then  studied  in  all  colleges  of  Pal- 
estine, Egypt  and  wherever  Jews  lived.  Owing  to  the  enmity 
of  the  Samaritans  and  the  opposition  of  the  Sadducees,  many 
laws  and  regulations  were  added  to  the  Talmud  of  the  Pharisees. 
From  that  time  the  Pharisees  began  to  restrict  their  interpreta- 
tions so  as  to  make  them  agree  with  the  deep  though  literal 
meaning  of  the  texts,  employing  therein  much  sophistry.  They 
counted  all  the  letters  of  the  Torah,  and  if  they  found  a  word  or 
letter  not  absolutely  necessary  to  the  understanding  of  the 
text,  they  said  it  was  placed  there  only  to  add  to  or  subtract 
from  the  meaning.  But  at  that  period  the  Mishna  was  not  a 
separate  and  distinct  thing  from  the  Talmud,  though  many 
ancient  Mishnas  already  existed  in  writing,  but  without  a  sepa- 
rate title.  The  Pharisees  studied  the  ancient  Mishnayoth, 
added  (see  App.  No.  4)  to  them,  and  explained  the  biblical  texts. 
All  this  was  entitled  Oral  Law,  or,  shortly,  "Talmud." 

CHAPTER  11. 

THE  DEVELOPMENT  OF  THE  TALMUD  DURING  THE  LAST  CENTURY 
OF  THE  SECOND  TEMPLE's  EXISTENCE  {i.e.  THE  FIRST  A.C.) 

SHEMAIA ABTALIAN HILLEL SHAMMAI THE       PRINCES 

(NASIS)    OF    ISRAEL R.    JOHANAN    B.   ZAKKAI — SANHEDRIN 

OF   JAMNIA THE    JEWISH    CHRISTIANS. 

After  the  triumph  of  Simon  b.  Shetah  over  the  Sadducees, 
when  he  had  finally  cleared  the  Sanhedrin  of  them,  and  only  the 
Pharisees  remained  there,  the  development  of  the  Talmud  pro- 
gressed rapidly,  for  the  number  of  the  sages,  the  adherents, 
reverers,  sanctifiers  of  the  Talmud,  increased  greatly  in  the  col- 
leges of  the  Ashkaloth  (Duumviri)  who  succeeded  to  ben  She- 
tah :  Shemaia  and  Abtalian,  and,  after  them,  Hillel  and  Sham- 
mai.  And  although  at  that  time  new  enemies  arose,  in  the 
Boethuseans,  Essenes,  and  many  other  sects  who  were  opposed 
to  its  particular  doctrines,  yet  those  had  not  the  power  to  check 
its  progress  or  to  weaken  its  influence — not  only  on  all  Israelites, 
wherever  they  dwelt,  but  also  on  many  Gentiles :  for  at  that 
time  we  see  that  prominent  persons  of  other  nations  (App.  No. 
5)  come  to  the  chief  men  of  Israel  and  express  their  wish  to 


8  THE   HISTORY   OF  THE  TALMUD. 

adopt  Judaism.  Hillel  the  Elder  received  them  with  open 
arms.  Helen  the  Queen,  and  her  son,  Isotis,  also  accepted  the 
creed  of  the  Talmud.  All  this  was  due  to  the  fact  that  its 
morality  came  at  this  time  to  be  before  the  world.  The  Poly- 
theists  began  to  perceive  the  great  difference  between  the  teach- 
ing of  their  priests  in  the  names  of  the  gods,  and  the  Torah  as 
explained  by  its  sages.  From  all  places  of  the  world  came  per- 
sons to  learn  the  doctrines  and  the  morality  of  the  Talmud. 
This  period  of  good  fortune,  however,  was  only  of  short  dura- 
tion, as  the  time  of  the  destruction  of  the  Temple  was  nigh,  and 
with  it  the  victims  of  the  sword  and  of  himger  were  many. 
Among  these  were  the  great  sages  who  bore  the  banner  of  the 
Talmud,  and  their  wisdom  died  with  them.  The  Sanhedrin 
had  been  forced,  while  the  Temple  was  still  in  existence,  to 
transfer  their  meeting  places  from  the  "marble  hall"  to  the 
"shops."  Rabban  Gamaliel  the  Elder,  the  son  of  Hillel  the 
Prince  (Nasi)  was  persecuted  by  them,  and  his  son  Simeon 
was  slain,  together  with  many  sages.  Thus,  if  R.  Johanan 
b.  Zakkai  had  not,  risking  his  life,  petitioned  Vespasian  to 
spare  the  Sanhedrin,  who  had  been  compelled  during  the 
tumults  at  Jerusalem  to  move  with  their  college  to  Jamnia, 
there  would  have  remained  no  vestige  of  the  Talmud,  since  most 
of  those  who  cherished  it  had  passed  away  by  the  sword,  by 
hunger  and  by  the  plague.  Besides,  the  disciples  of  Jesus  (see 
App.  No.  6),  who  then  believed  in  his  Messiahship,  but  not  in  his 
divinity,  began  secretly  to  imdermine  the  Talmud,  which  laid 
more  stress  on  external  ceremonies  than  they  deemed  necessary, 
and  endeavored  with  all  their  might  to  weaken  its  influence 
among  the  populace,  but  R.  Jehanan  b.  Zakkai  and  the  Sanhe- 
drin in  Jamnia,  with  Rabban  Gamaliel,  the  son  of  the  slain 
Simeon,  at  their  head,  restored  the  Talmud  to  its  prestige, 
and  took  pains  to  raise  up  others  in  the  places  of  the  mur- 
dered sages. 

Thus  the  study  of  the  Talmud  flourished  after  the  destruc- 
tion of  the  Temple,  although  beset  with  great  difficulties  and 
desperate  struggles.  All  his  days,  R.  Johanan  b.  Zakkai  was 
obliged  to  dispute  with  Sadducees  and  Bathueians  and,  no 
doubt,  with  the  Messiahists  also ;  for  although  these  last  were 
Pharisees,  they  difTercc]  in  many  points  from  the  teaching  of  the 
Talmud  after  their  master,  Jesus,  had  broken  with  the  Phari- 


THE   FIRST  A.  C.  g 

sees  and  their  doctrines  in  public.  So  R.  Johanan  b.  Zakkai 
was  obliged  to  introduce  many  reforms ;  and  Rabban  Gamaliel 
of  Jamnia,  notwithstanding  his  office  of  Nasi,  and  his  lofty  bear- 
ing towards  his  colleagues  and  adversaries,  was  compelled  to  go 
many  times  to  Rome  to  ask  for  mercy  for  his  college  and  the 
Pharisaic  sages.  And  this  first  Nasi,  after  the  Temple's  de- 
struction, also  had  to  witness  the  evil  consequences  of  quarrels 
in  the  midst  of  his  own  nation,  added  to  the  calamities  from 
without. 

As  the  interpretations  of  every  letter  and  vowel  point  of  the 
written  law  had  multiplied,  and  liberty  had  been  given  to  every 
learned  man  to  construe  biblical  texts  at  his  pleasure,  the  dif- 
ferences of  opinion  multiplied,  and  the  disciples  of  Shammai 
and  Hillel,  whose  master's  characters  differed  to  the  utmost, 
split  into  two  factions  and  studied  in  separate  colleges.  Thus 
the  teaching  of  the  Talmud  was  differently  interpreted  by  two 
parties,  and  what  the  one  permitted,  the  other  forbade.  This 
circumstance  was  of  more  danger  to  the  Talmud  than  any  ex- 
ternal foe,  for  when  there  is  no  internal  union,  the  whole  fabric 
will  go  to  pieces,  and  its  influence  will,  of  course,  diminish. 
Therefore  the  sages  of  Jamnia,  with  R.  Gamaliel  at  their  head, 
strove  not  only  to  decide  the  law  according  to  the  school  of 
Hillel,  but  also  to  decree  that  the  words  of  Shammai's  school  in 
the  place  of  Hillel 's  had  no  value  at  all.  And  what  a  world  of 
difficulty  the  sages  had  to  surmount  before  they  succeeded ! 
R.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel  rightly  says  "  If  we  proceeded  to  record 
all  the  troubles  and  calamities  we  had  endured,  time  would 
not  suffice." 

But  in  the  long  run  they  did  succeed  in  widening  and  in- 
creasing the  sphere  of  influence  of  the  Talmud,  for  both  the  in- 
ternal dissensions  and  external  opposition  only  tended  to  sink 
more  deeply  into  the  hearts  of  the  people  its  doctrines  (Hala- 
khas),  legends  (Hagadas)  and  morals.  At  the  end  of  the  first 
century  it  was  to  them  a  substitute  for  their  destroyed  Temple ; 
it  was  their  stronghold,  their  entertainment  by  day  and  by  night. 
It  was  only  when  they  were  occupied  with  it  that  they  forgot  all 
the  calamities  past  and  present ;  it  was  the  sole  bond  which 
kept  together  the  scattered  colonies  of  Israelites,  which 
strengthened  them  to  bear  the  yoke  of  the  Romans,  to  hope  for 
brighter  days,  to  be  patient  unto  the  end. 


lo  THE   HISTORY   OF  THE   TALMUD. 

CHAPTER  III. 

THE  DESTRUCTION  OF  THE  TEMPLE THE   FALL  OF  BETHEL THE 

MASSACRE  OF  THE  SAGES  OF  THE  TALMUD,  TILL  THE  WRIT- 
ING OF  THE  MISHNA  IN  THE  BEGINNING  OF  THE  THIRD  CEN- 
TURY. 

The  Temple  had  been  destroyed;  Rabban  Gamaliel  and 
many  of  his  colleagues  were  dead ;  the  family  of  the  Nasi  extir- 
pated, excepting  only  his  son  R.  Simeon,  who  succeeded  to  his 
father  as  Nasi  and  established  a  college  at  Usha ;  and  new  per- 
secutions, awful  in  their  extent,  were  directed  against  those  who 
were  engaged  in  the  compilation  of  the  Talmud.  The  sages, 
the  chief  men  of  Israel,  were  slaughtered  without  pity  by  Trajan 
and  his  successors  through  the  entire  period  of  fifty- two  years 
from  the  destruction  of  the  Temple  to  the  fall  of  Bethel.  Some 
of  these  founders  of  the  Talmud  who  forfeited  their  lives  for  its 
sake  are  known  to  us  only  by  their  names :  R.  Ishmael,  Simeon 
b.  Azai,  Papus  b.  Jehudah,  Yishbab  the  Scribe,  Huzpeth  the 
Dragoman  (interpreter),  Jehudah  the  Baker,  Hananiah  b.  Tra- 
dion  and  Aqiba ;  the  last,  the  main  pillar  of  the  Talmud,  and  who 
contributed  much  to  its  diffusion  and  completion,  died  with  joy 
at  being  enabled  to  sacrifice  his  life  for  it. 

One  of  the  causes  of  the  great  revolt  against  the  Romans  at 
this  time  was  the  prohibition  by  the  Roman  government  of  the 
study  of  the  Torah,  wherein  alone  the  Jews  found  comfort, 
since  only  in  their  houses  of  learning  could  they  enjoy  complete 
peace  and  freedom.  But  as  the  death  penalty  had  been  de- 
creed against  all  who  occupied  themselves  with  religious  study 
and  observed  its  precepts,  and  as  this  prohibition  deprived 
them  of  their  only  source  of  consolation,  they  rebelled,  led  by 
Bar  Kochba.  R.  Aqiba  was  the  first  to  become  his  adherent, 
who  journeyed  from  town  to  town,  inciting  the  Israelites  to 
rebel,  and  bringing  them  the  message  that  a  saviour  of  Israel 
had  arisen  in  Bar  Kochba,  the  Messiah.  It  is  not  surprising, 
therefore,  that  Hadrian,  when  he  had  ascended  to  the  throne, 
was  not  content  barely  with  the  massacre  of  the  sages  of  the 
Talmud,  but  was  intent  also  on  the  destruction  of  the  Talmud 
itself.  Unable  to  find  a  pretext  for  killing  all  the  sages  who 
kept  it  up,  he  decreed  that  if  any  of  the  old  rabbis  should 


THE    BEGINNING  OF  THE  THIRD   CENTURY.       n 

qualify  a  young  rabbi  for  Israel,  both  should  be  put  to  death, 
and  the  place  in  which  such  took  place  should  be  destroyed,  be- 
lieving that  with  the  death  of  the  elder  generation  the  Talmud 
would  be  forgotten  and  Israel  would  blend  with  the  nations  and 
its  memory  be  obliterated ;  because  he  very  well  knew  that  as 
long  as  the  Talmud  existed  there  was  little  hope  for  the  assimi- 
lation of  the  Jews  with  other  nations.  This  decree,  however, 
was  not  executed,  and  his  murderous  plan  was  further  frus- 
trated by  R.  Jehudah  b.  Baba,  who,  forewarned  of  the  decree 
and  comprehending  its  consequences,  betook  himself  to  a  place 
between  two  great  mountains  between  Usha  and  Shprehem  and 
licensed  six  of  the  older  men  of  R.  Aqiba's  disciples  to  be  rabbis 
(i.e.,  teachers  of  the  Talmud) :  R.  Meir,  R.  Jehudah  b.  Elai,  R. 
Jose  b.  Halaphta,  R.  Simeon  b.  Jochai,  R.  Eleazar  b.  Shemua, 
and  R.  Nehemiah.  Having  done  this,  and  feeling  sure  that  as 
long  as  these  men  lived  the  Talmud  would  be  kept  alive,  he 
thus  addressed  them :  "  Fly,  my  sons,  and  hide  from  the  wrath 
of  the  enemy.  I  alone  will  remain,  and  will  offer  my  body  to 
satiate  their  vengeance."  And  in  fact  the  Romans  pierced  his 
body  with  three  hundred  iron  lances,  so  that  it  resembled  a 
sieve ;  but  the  newly  consecrated  rabbis  were  saved,  and  with 
them  the  Talmud.     (See  Sanhedrin,  p.  30.) 

Thus  the  efforts  of  Hadrian  met  with  no  success,  so  that  at 
last  he  said  to  himself:  "  Great  is  the  sheep  that  stands  among 
seventy  wolves."  He  saw  the  Talmud  still  existing,  bringing 
to  naught  his  plan  for  converting  the  Jews,  uniting  Israel  into 
one  people,  and  establishing  it  still  more  firmly  as  a  national 
and  a  religious  whole.  For  the  six  rabbis  named  above  very 
soon  became  the  soul  of  Talmudic  study ;  some  of  them  were 
with  R.  Simeon,  the  Nasi,  in  Shprehem,  and  others  founded  col- 
leges of  their  own.  Through  them  the  Talmud  regained  its 
former  power  and  influence,  and  one  of  them,  R.  Ilai,  became 
the  chief  teacher  of  R.  Jehudah  the  Nasi,  the  compiler  of  the 
Mishna. 

The  translation  of  the  Bible  (written  law)  into  Greek  also 
contributed  very  much  to  the  popularization  of  the  Talmud. 
As  long  as  the  Torah  was  in  the  sacred  language  only  (for  the 
Aramaic  version  of  the  time  of  Ezra  had  been  concealed  or  de- 
stroyed as  early  as  the  time  of  Rabban  Gamaliel  the  Elder,  the 
son  of  Simeon  who  had  been  slain,  or  probably  even  during  the 


12  THE   HISTORY   OF   THE  TALMUD. 

life  of  the  latter),*  all  Jewish  sects  and  foreign  scholars  inter- 
preted it  in  their  own  way.  But  a  wise  Greek,  a  convert  of 
Judaism,  Aquila  the  Proselyte,  who  received  the  doctrines  of 
the  Talmud  from  the  disciples  of  R.  Johanan  b.  Zakkai  and  also 
from  R.  Aqiba,  translated  the  Bible  into  Greek.  This  version 
was  not  acceptable  to  the  Jewish  believers  in  Jesus  (Messian- 
ists) — who  must  already  at  that  period  have  constituted  a  large 
sect — because  their  construction  of  many  passages  in  the  Mes- 
sianic spirit  was  flatly  disregarded  by  the  new  translation ;  nor 
to  the  Romans,  because  all  expressions  seeming  to  imply  the 
materiality  of  the  Deity  were  translated  in  a  figurative  sense — 
as  for  example,  "the  hand  of  the  Lord";  "the  glory  of  the 
Lord, ' '  which  the  statue-worshipping  Romans  could  not  en- 
dure with  equanimity,  and  further  because  by  this  translation 
the  nature  and  doctrines  of  the  Talmud  became  known  to  many 
nations,  who  found  no  evil  in  it.  In  our  opinion  the  version  of 
Aquila  was  the  sole  cause  of  the  despatch  of  censors  from  Rome 
to  revise  the  Talmud,  and  these  censors  avowed  that  its  teach- 
ing was  true.  Be  it  as  it  may,  in  studying  the  history  of  the 
Talmud  during  the  first  three  centuries  the  reader  is  easily  con- 
vinced of  the  great  courage  and  patience  of  the  sages  of  the  Tal- 
mud. For  no  year  of  that  period  passed  without  trouble  from 
its  external  as  well  as  from  its  internal  foes,  as  R.  Simeon  b. 
Gamaliel,  the  Nasi  of  Jamnia,  himself  testifies.  (See  above,  p.  9.) 
For  even  after  the  death  of  Hadrian  it  enjoyed  but  a  short  re- 
spite, for  Antoninus  Pius  renewed  the  decree  of  Hadrian,  and 
only  with  much  trouble  and  at  great  risk  of  his  life  did  the  Nasi 
succeed  in  inducing  R.  Simeon  b.  Jochai  and  R.  Josi  to  go  with 
him  to  Rome  to  petition  the  Caesar  to  repeal  the  decree,  which, 
according  to  the  tradition  of  the  Talmud,  they  effected  only 
through  the  intervention  of  "  Ben  Temalion  "  (a  demon,  accord- 
ing to  some ;  a  man,  according  to  others) .  And  yet,  in  spite  of 
this,  during  this  very  period,  the  Talmud  became  so  popular 
that  every  town  wherein  Jews  had  their  habitation  possessed 
also  a  house  of  learning  for  the  study  of  the  Talmud ;  so  that 
everywhere  it  bloomed  and  flourished,  and  bore  the  fruit  of  the 
Mishna,  as  we  shall  see  in  the  next  chapter. 

*  Sec  our  "  Pentateuch,  its  Languages  and  Characters,"  pp.  16-17. 


THE   MISHNAS.  13 

CHAPTER  IV. 

THE  THIRD  CENTURY — THE    ARRANGEMENT   OF   THE  MISHNAS — 
THE  TALMUDIC  COLLEGES  OF  PALESTINE  AND  BABYLONIA. 

The  sages,  the  commentators  of  the  Tahnud,  differed  in 
opinion  as  to  the  epoch  when  the  Talmud  began  to  be  written 
down.  The  scholars  of  Spain,  and  their  colleagues  and  disci- 
ples, said  that  it  had  been  recorded  from  notes  possessed  since 
schools  had  begun  in  Israel,  a  long  time  before  R.  Jehudah  the 
Nasi.  The  scholars  of  France,  among  them  "  Rashi,"  however, 
declared  that  not  a  line  was  written  till  the  completion  of  the 
Talmud,  before  which  its  study  had  been  oral.  Each  school 
adduced  proofs  in  behalf  of  its  assertion.  Modem  scholars  have 
made  a  compromise  between  these  various  versions,  by  assert- 
ing that  during  the  first  centuries  the  commentators  of  the  Tal- 
mud in  the  beginning  had  taken  notes  of  their  studies,  and  later 
had  written  them  out  in  a  permanent  form.  It  would  seem 
that  as  the  persecutions  had  at  their  commencement  been  very 
severe,  and  the  sages  (see  App.  No.  7)  felt  that  their  lives  were  in 
peril,  they  decided  to  write  its  teaching  in  secret  and  to  conceal 
it  from  its  foes.  No  sooner  had  the  Pharisees  granted  permis- 
sion for  this  (for  till  then  it  was  absolutely  forbidden  to  put  in 
writing  oral  law)  than  the  number  of  manuscripts  became  very 
great ;  and  when  R.  Jehudah  the  Nasi  came  to  occupy  the  seat 
of  his  father  and  had  been  confirmed  in  authority  (since  he  en- 
joyed the  friendship  of  one  Antonius,  who  was  in  power  at 
Rome) ,  he  discovered  that  from  the  multitude  of  the  trees  the 
forest  could  not  be  seen;  that  is,  from  the  multitude  of  the 
Mishnas  the  people  had  lost  sight  of  the  Talmud.  He  therefore 
resolved  to  compile,  selecting  out  of  all  the  written  and  the  un- 
written law,  clear  Mishnayoth,  and  to  systematize  them. 

Indeed,  the  period  was  very  favorable  to  this  imdertaking, 
for  the  Talmud  enjoyed  a  respite  from  persecutors  external  and 
internal.  The  Jewish  followers  of  the  Messiah,  Jesus,  began  at 
this  time  to  gradually  blend  with  the  foreigners  who  adopted 
the  new  creed ;  hence  their  influence  on  their  brethren  who  per- 
sisted in  the  old  faith  was  weakened.  Still  he  met  with  many 
obstacles.  The  chief  one  was  the  division  of  opinion  among  the 
students  of  the  Talmud  themselves.      For  although  his  grand- 


14  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

father,  Rabban  Gamaliel  the  Elder,  had  succeeded  in  fixing  the 
law  in  accordance  with  Hillel's  school,  and  declared,  with  the 
consent  of  many  of  the  sages  of  the  Talmud,  the  school  of  Sham- 
mai  of  no  validity  when  at  variance  with  Hillel's,  still  the  de- 
cree was  weakened,  when  later  he  was  deposed  for  a  short  time 
from  his  office  of  Nasi,  and  in  his  college  were  assembled  four 
hundred  students  more,  of  diverse  opinions.  In  view  of  this, 
and  it  was  decided  again  that  individual  opinions,  even  those 
of  the  minority,  should  be  considered,  the  differences  between 
the  students  and  the  sages  of  his  college  were  renewed  with 
greater  vigor.  This  state  of  things  continued  till  the  time  of 
Rabbi,  and  in  order  that  his  Mishnayoth  might  be  accepted  he 
was  compelled  to  give  due  weight  to  all  the  varying  opinions, 
slighting  none,  even  of  those  who  were  in  direct  contravention 
of  the  decision. 

The  second  difficulty  was  in  selecting,  from  among  the  mass 
of  incongruous  doctrines  and  laws — many  of  which  had  become 
obsolete,  and  others  found  to  be  imnecessary  or  impracticable — 
those  which  were  both  practicable  and  of  direct  application 
(for  a  tradition  relates  that  Rabbi  found  six  hundred  sections 
of  Mishnayoth;  and  even  if  we  admit  that  this  number  is 
greatly  exaggerated,  still  if  even  one  himdred  existed,  it  was  no 
light  task  to  reduce  them  to  six). 

The  third  difficulty  was  that  as  the  subject  had  been  studied 
in  divers  places,  dilTering  in  dialect  or  language,  all  the  JVIish- 
nayoth  had  to  be  made  uniform  in  their  dialect.  xA-dded  to  all 
this,  he  was  forced  to  clear  the  Mishnayoth  from  the  insertions 
incorporated  into  it  by  the  Messianists;  for  being  many  and 
considerable  persons,  and  in  close  alliance  with  their  colleagues 
the  Pharisees  during  two  centuries,  they  could  not  have  failed 
to  introduce  into  the  Mishnayoth  their  own  peculiar  opinion 
and  beliefs,  many  such  passages,  indeed,  being  found  in  the 
Gemara. 

Reason  compels  us  to  admit,  at  least,  that  there  were  pass- 
ages in  the  Mishnayoth  concerning  Jesus  and  his  teachings ;  for 
how  is  it  possible  that  an  occurrence  which  holds  so  important 
a  place  in  the  history  of  Israel,  and  which  has  spread  its  influ- 
ence among  the  nations  for  centuries,  should  not  be  even  hinted 
at  in  the  Mishnayoth?  We  must,  therefore,  conclude  that 
Rabbi  thought  it  well  to  clear  the  Mishnayoth  of  any  reference 


THE   SUBJECTS   OF   ITS   SECTIONS.  15 

to  the  occurrence  itself,  as  well  as  to  the  adherents  of  the  new 
faith.  In  this  he  acted  wisely,  for  he  knew  beforehand  that  the 
Mishnayoth  would  be  the  foundation  upon  which  Judaism  and 
the  Talmud  should  be  built,  and  that  the  interpretations  of  it 
would  be  many,  each  interpreter  following  the  bias  of  his  mind. 
Therefore  it  was  deemed  best  by  him  to  avoid  all  mention  of  the 
new  event,  to  treat  it  as  though  it  had  no  existence.  Nothing 
can  withstand  a  strong  will.  When  once  he  had  resolved  to 
carry  out  his  project  at  any  cost,  all  difficulties  vanished.  He 
went  from  college  to  college,  in  cities  far  and  near,  in  places 
where  the  great  masters  taught  and  learned ;  and  though  they 
"  surrounded  him  as  cocks  of  Beth  Bukia,"  he  was  not  shaken 
in  his  resolution,  and  with  the  help  of  his  many  friends  and 
sympathizers  he  was  finally  enabled  to  arrange  in  order  six 
sections  of  Mishnayoth,  condensed  from  hundreds.  Each  sec- 
tion is  given  up  to  a  general  subject,  and  is  subdivided  into 
tracts  dealing  with  matters  which  come  naturally  within  the 
scope  of  the  section.  The  tracts  are  further  divided  into  chap- 
ters. 

The  subjects  of  the  sections  and  the  tracts  are  as  follows : 

1 .  The  Section  of  Seeds. — The  general  subject  of  this  section 
is  the  law  relating  to  vegetables,  heave  offerings,  tithes,  the 
sabbatical  year,  Kilaim,  etc. ;  and  at  the  head  of  this  section  he 
placed  the  tract  on  benedictions  which  man  owes  to  his  Maker 
every  morning,  beginning  with  those  of  the  evening,  which  com- 
mences the  day  according  to  the  Jewish  custom. 

2.  The  Section  of  Festivals. — This  treats  of  the  Sabbath  holi- 
days (to  each  holiday  being  devoted  a  separate  tract),  and  in- 
cidentally also  of  the  duty  of  taxes  before  the  holidays,  and  of 
mourning  during  the  festivals.     (See  App.  No.  8.) 

3 .  The  Section  of  Women. — This  deals  with  laws  having  refer- 
ence to  women,  marriage,  divorce,  in  separate  tracts,  and  there- 
to are  added  laws  concerning  vows  and  Nazarites,  as  women's 
vows  are  dependent  on  the  decision  of  their  fathers  and  hus- 
bands, and  Nazarites  depend  on  women,  who  may  legally  con- 
secrate the  child  previous  to  its  birth,  as  for  example,  Hannah 
and  the  mother  of  Samson. 

4.  The  Section  of  Damages. — This  section  treats  of  laws  of 
property,  of  the  judges,  of  the  penalties  which  the  court  may 
prescribe,  and  is  divided  into  the  tracts  "Sanhedrin,"  "Penal- 


i6  THE   HISTORY  OF  THE  TALMUD. 

ties"  (Makkoth),  etc. ;  but  as  the  first  part  treats  only  of  dam- 
ages and  their  prevention,  it  is  divided  simply  into  three  parts 
without  distinct  titles :  but  as  first,  second  and  third  Geths,  and 
as  it  treats  of  damages  for  which  men  are  responsible,  a  tract  on 
morals  has  been  added — "  Abboth."  (Sections  "  Festivals  and 
Jurisprudence"  have  been  already  translated  into  English  by 
us  in  eighteen  volumes ;  the  synopsis  of  which  will  be  here  ap- 
pendixed.) 

5.  The  Section  of  Sacred  Things  (sacrifices),  divided  into 
tracts  on  sacrifices  (Zebachim)  firstlings  (Bekhoroth),  and  by 
the  way  also  Chulin;  it  treats  of  slaughtering,  and  examina- 
tion of  the  slaughtered  animal  used  for  profane  purposes. 

6.  The  Section  of  Purifications  (Tohoroth). — ^This  deals  with 
the  subject  of  defilements  and  purifications  in  general,  and  has 
for  special  topics  the  defilement  of  vessels  (Kelim),  of  plagues 
(Nega'im),  of  tents  (Aholoth),  etc.,  and  a  tract  relating  to  a 
Nidah  (menstruated  woman). 

Thus  he  arranged  all  the  laws  relating  to  the  Hebrew  religion 
and  to  civil  matters,  and  called  his  entire  work  Mishnayoth 
(Mishna),  i.e.  meaning  "teaching"  to  distinguish  it  from 
"Torah"  and  "Talmud,"  and  probably  because  it  is  written 
(Deut.  vi.  7)  V'shinantam — "and  thou  shalt  teach  them  dili- 
gently to  thy  children" — in  the  original  version  (Mishna  Tohroh), 
which  signifies  really  to  explain  and  comment  upon  it.  Thus 
the  Mishna  is  an  explanation  of  and  a  comment  upon  the  Pen- 
tateuch (see  footnote  for  a  different  explanation,  in  the  intro- 
duction to  "  Sabbath  "),  and  teaches  men  how  to  conduct  them- 
selves in  relation  to  their  fellow-men,  and  incites  them  to  all 
good  and  praiseworthy  (actions). 

In  the  short  introduction  to  "Sabbath"  (vi.-vii.)  we  have 
already  described  briefly  the  character  of  the  Mishnayoth 
which  Rabbi  arranged,  and  how  he  succeeded  in  imparting  to 
it  the  sanctity  of  the  Pentateuch  itself,  so  that  nothing  is  to  be 
added  to  them,  and  what  was  done  later  after  Rabbi's  death, 
is  not  the  place  to  expatiate  on  this  subject ;  we  may,  however, 
state  briefly  that  as  soon  as  the  Mishnayoth  was  completed,  col- 
leges were  founded  in  Palestine  and  Babylonia  to  explain  the 
meaning  of  the  Mishnayoth  and  develop  their  laws  to  their 
ultimate  consequences.  After  Rabbi's  death,  when  Boraithoth 
and  Toseptheth  were  discovered  which  did  not  form  part  of  his 


THE   GEMARA.  17 

compilation  and  which  in  many  places  contradicted  the  Mish- 
nayoth,  these  colleges  busied  themselves  in  reconciling  them 
with  the  Mishnayoth  and  with  each  other.  They  accounted 
for  contradictions  in  Baraithoth  by  saying  that  one  spoke  of  a 
case  under  same  circumstances,  while  another  meant  a  like  case 
under  different  circumstances.  So  they  explained  the  differ- 
ences in  the  Mishnayoth  themselves,  often  dividing  a  Mishna, 
whose  parts  seemed  to  contradict  each  other,  and  giving  as  ex- 
planation of  the  contradictions  that  the  first  part  was  accord- 
ing to  one  tana,  but  the  latter  part  according  to  another. 
These  discussions  and  comments  on  the  Mishna  they  called 
"Gemara,"  which  also  signifies  "teaching"  in  Aramaic,  which 
was  the  spoken  language  of  the  sages  of  the  Gemara  (see  in  the 
above-mentioned  introduction  for  a  different  reason),  and  to 
the  combined  Mishnayoth  and  Gemara  they  gave  the  old  name, 
"Tahnud." 

CHAPTER  V. 

THE  TALMUD  OF  JERUSALEM,  THE  TALMUD  OF  BABYLONIA,  THE 
CHARACTER  OF  THEIR  HALAKHA  AND  HAGADA,  THE  DATES 
OF  THEIR  COMPLETION  AND  THEIR  SYSTEMATIZATION. 

The  sages  of  the  Gemara,  called  Amaraim,  and  the  commen- 
tators of  Mishnayoth  were  of  different  characters.  Some  were 
intent  only  on  diligently  collecting  Mishnayoth  and  Barai- 
thoth, wherever  found,  to  compare  them  with  each  other,  to 
correct  their  reading  in  conformity  with  Rabbi's  Mishnayoth, 
and  to  separate  the  wheat  from  the  chaff,  i.e.  to  decide  which 
Boraithoth  was  valid  and  which  was  not  worthy  of  considera- 
tion (Boraithoth  which  were  not  studied  in  the  colleges  of  R. 
H3rya  and  R.  Ushia  were  not  considered) .  On  the  other  hand, 
there  were  others  who  devoted  themselves  to  ingenious  con- 
struction of  the  Mishnayoth  and  the  Boraithoth  itself,  without 
adducing  proofs  from  elsewhere.  (See  App.  No.  9.)  This  con- 
sisted in  scrupulously  examining  the  letters  in  the  Mishna,  to 
eliminate  or  to  amplify  it  where  they  judged  necessary,  to  trace 
laws  to  their  origin  and  to  discover  what  tana  agreed  with  this 
Mishna  and  what  differed  from  it,  whether  the  same  tana  con- 
tradicted himself  at  different  places,  and  whether  it  was  incom- 


i8  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

patible  to  explain  them  in  various  ways,  and  the  like.  In  the 
language  of  the  Gemara  they  are  distinguished  by  different 
titles.  Those  who  studied  the  Mishnayoth  were  styled  "Sinai, 
the  master  of  the  wheat,"  and  the  dialecticians  "the  uprooters 
of  mountains"  or  " acute  men "  ;  and  although  the  preference 
was  given  to  the  former,  as  it  was  said,  "  all  must  resort  to  the 
master  of  the  wheat,"  yet  the  study  of  the  Babylonian  Tal- 
mudists  being  based  on  scholasticism,  their  acuteness  is  evinced 
in  their  so  harmonizing  the  contradictions  and  disagreements, 
that  they  appear  to  point  to  the  same  meaning. 

Not  only  did  they  interpret  the  Boraithas  at  variance  with 
the  Mishnayoth,  but  when  even  one  of  the  great  Amoraim  ap- 
peared to  differ  from  the  Mishna  they  so  distorted  the  latter 
that  it  should  seem  to  agree  with  the  Amora.  A  similar  dif- 
ference existed  among  the  authors  of  the  Hagada ;  some  gave 
to  biblical  texts  a  new  reading  remote  from  the  plain  meaning, 
interpreting  them  in  strange  and  marvellous  ways,  and  basing 
on  them  legends  of  natural  impossibilities,  while  some  adhered 
closely  to  the  literal  meaning  of  texts,  without  adorning  them 
with  exaggerations.  Though  in  the  Palestinian  and  the  Syrian , 
as  well  as  in  the  Babylonian  colleges,  there  were  many  scholars 
who  assisted  each  other  in  their  studies  and  comments  on  the 
Mishnayoth,  the  Palestinian  differed  from  those  of  Babylon  in 
this  respect,  that  in  the  former  the  chief  labor  consisted  in  the 
collection  of  Halakhas,  without  profound  researches  into  the 
deeper  meanings  and  implications,  even  in  the  study  of  the  mere 
Mishnayoth,  all  of  whichuwas  totally  unlike  the  manner  of  study 
in  the  Babylonian  schools.  Indeed,  the  Palestinians  were  in- 
ferior to  the  Babylonians  in  scholastic  profimdity  and  ingenuity, 
and  but  few  of  them  distinguished  themselves  therein,  except 
R.  Johanan,  R.  Simeon  b.  Lakish,  and  several  others  of  that 
period.  Therefore,  in  the  schools  of  Palestine,  scholasticism 
was  esteemed  of  little  value,  and  in  them  the  study  of  Halakhas 
fell  into  decay,  so  that  finally  the  Hagada  came  to  occupy  the 
principal  place,  the  Halakhas  holding  a  subordinate  position. 
In  addition  to  this,  they  found  themselves  compelled  to  give 
their  attention  to  the  biblical  texts,  as  the  Messianists,  who  had 
grown  in  numbers,  construed  these  texts  favorably  to  Chris- 
tianity, and  challenged  the  Jews  to  dispute  with  them.  There- 
fore, the  sages  found  themselves  obliged  to  give  the  preference 


HALAKHA  AND   HAG  ADA.  19 

to  the  study  of  the  Scriptures  and  Hagada.  As  at  that  time 
the  impression  was  general  that  the  most  important  element  in 
the  study  of  the  Torah  is  ingenious  reasoning  on  Halakha,  it  is 
not  surprising  that  the  Babylonian  Talmud  came  to  be  received 
as  the  important  and  essential  part  of  the  Oral  Law,  while  that 
of  Palestine  held  a  subordinate  position. 

It  is  difficult  to  describe  accurately  and  clearly  the  mode  of 
thinking  and  ways  of  reasoning  of  the  Talmud,  which  in  truth 
is  known  only  to  one  who  has  made  it  the  study  of  his  life.  It 
is  easier,  however,  to  give  a  picture  of  the  Talmudists'  views 
and  notions  as  gathered  from  the  Hagada.  In  this  respect  the 
Hagada  of  the  Palestinian  Talmud  is  superior  to  that  of  Baby- 
lon, as  it  had  its  birth  in  Palestine,  and  was  borrowed  thence  by 
the  Babylonians. 

Many  books  of  Hagada  had  existed  in  Palestine,  whose  con- 
tents were  incorporated  later  in  various  Midrashim,  and  some 
also  in  the  Talmud,  and  even  at  that  period  there  was  a  differ- 
ence of  opinion  as  to  their  value.  Some  valued  them,  and  some 
despised  them.  The  Hagadas  consist  of  two  elements  :  first, 
the  external  garment  of  the  thought,  the  tradition,  and  sec- 
ondly, the  internal  idea,  allegorically  shadowed  forth,  which 
constitutes  literary  value.  The  latter  can  be  divided  into  three 
kinds:  "P'shat,"  the  interpretation  of  the  meaning  of  biblical 
words;  "Drash,"  a  free  untrammelled  interpretation  of  the 
scriptural  texts;  "Sod,"  the  deep  mystic,  religious  meanings 
construed  from  the  texts.  By  these  three  kinds  of  construction 
of  Scripture,  all  subjects,  topics  and  times  are  embraced  and 
discussed.  The  Hagada,  with  its  mystic  and  veiled  religious 
wisdom,  has  exercised  a  great  influence  in  the  Oriental  and 
heathen  world,  which  has  borrowed  from  it  many  precious 
gems  of  profound  reHgious  thought  having  Palestine  for  their 
birthplace.  And  indeed  we  find  that  the  multitude  of  legends 
based  on  the  Bible  which  have  been  current  in,  and  reverenced 
by,  the  Mohammedan  world  for  twelve  hundred  years,  delight- 
ing both  sages  and  the  unlearned,  are  to  be  found  in  the  Tal- 
mudic  Hagada.  Whether  entire  or  only  in  the  leading  idea, 
their  identity  is  recognizable.  Many  also  of  the  legends  of  the 
Middle  Ages  to  be  found  in  the  works  of  Dante,  or  those  of 
Boccaccio,  Cervantes,  and  Milton,  are  taken,  consciously  or 
imconsciously,  from  their  original  source,  the  Taknudic  Hagada. 


20  THE   HISTORY   OF  THE   TALMUD. 

The  Fathers  of  the  Christian  church  have  Hkewise  drawn  on  it, 
as  Basilius  of  Cappadocia,  Hieronymus,  Chrysostomus,  and 
many  others  who  construed  passages  in  the  Bible  in  accordance 
with  the  Hagada.  The  moral  code  contained  in  the  Hagada, 
teaches  man  how  to  conduct  himself  toward  all  men  and  in  all 
situations  of  life.  We  shall  deal  with  this  moral  law  in  a  future 
chapter  on  the  Ethics  of  the  Talmud. 

The  two  Talmuds  contain,  then,  Halakhas,  Hagadas,  refer- 
ences to  all  branches  of  science  known  in  those  days,  but  with- 
out any  system  or  order.  Many  times  a  Hagada  is  interpolated 
in  the  middle  of  a  Halakha,  and  again  in  Hke  manner  a  digres- 
sion on  a  scientific  subject  extraneous  to  the  Halakha  is  inserted 
in  it.  The  compiler  of  the  Talmud,  whether  from  careless 
method  or  from  the  great  labor  involved,  could  introduce  no 
order.  In  this  respect  there  is  little  difference  between  the  two 
Talmuds;  nor  is  there  much  difference  in  the  sources  whence 
each  drew  its  material.  Sayings  from  the  Talmud  of  Palestine 
are  quoted  in  that  of  Babylonia,  sometimes  under  the  name  of 
their  author  or  their  citer  in  Babylonia;  other  passages  are 
stated  to  emanate  from  the  ' '  West . "  "In  the  West  (Palestine) 
it  was  said."  In  the  Talmud  Palestinian,  similarly  (vide  I.  H. 
Weiss,  Vol.  III.,  127,  etc.),  the  Babylonian  authority  is  often 
given;  e.g.,  "  There  they  learn"  or  "say."  It  is  clear  however 
that  when  the  Babylonian  Talmud  was  compiled  that  of  Pal- 
estine was  imknown  to  its  compilers,  although,  according  to  the 
opinion  of  many,  the  Talmud  of  Palestine  was  arranged  by  R, 
Johanan  and  concluded  by  R.  Jose  bar  Bim  about  one  himdred 
years  before  the  Babylonian ;  others,  however,  affirm  that  the 
Talmud  of  Palestine  was  concluded  only  in  the  eighth  century 
or  even  as  late  as  the  ninth  (in  the  time  of  Anan,  the  founder  of 
the  Karaite  sect),  and  adduce  evidence  in  substantiation.  We 
may  assume,  as  a  compromise,  both  assertions  to  be  true ;  the 
greater  part  had  indeed  been  arranged  and  systematized  in  the 
time  of  Hillel,  the  last  of  the  Nasis  in  the  West,  but  it  was  not 
employed  to  any  extent  in  the  colleges  remaining  in  Palestine 
and  Syria,  because  the  Babylonian  Talmud  had  spread  until  it 
reached  the  West.  But  in  the  time  of  the  Karaites  many 
things  were  added  to  the  Talmud  of  Palestine  (to  oppose  the 
doctrines  of  the  Karaites,  as  the  small  tract  on  Tephilin  and  the 
like,  which  that  sect  repudiated)  by  those  who  wished  their 


ABBI  ARIKHA  AND   R.   ASHI. 


21 


words  to  be  held  as  of  equal  sacredness  with  the  Talmud,  as  was 
then  customary.  (We  shall  speak  of  this  further  on.)  The 
bulk  of  the  Palestine  Talmud,  after  all  the  additions,  is  much 
less  than  that  of  the  Babylonian,  albeit  it  contains  Gemara  on 
two  additional  tracts  (thirty-nine  instead  of  thirty-seven,  as 
will  be  explained)  and  fragmentary  chapters  of  other  tracts. 
This  is  owing  to  the  fact  that  the  discussion  of  the  Mishnayoth  is 
not  so  elaborate,  and  there  is  less  of  scholastics.  We  have 
already  stated  that  its  quality,  as  regards  the  Halakhas,  is  also 
inferior.  It  was  not  as  popular  as  that  of  Babylonia,  therefore 
fewer  copies  were  made  of  it  than  of  the  latter.  For  this  reason, 
since  its  conclusion  its  opponents  have  been  less  numerous, 
though  it  was  very  much  persecuted  at  the  time  when  it  was 
studied  in  the  colleges.  The  government  rulers  persecuted 
Israel  and  its  Torah,  since  the  death  of  Rabhi,  and  the  perse- 
cutions did  not  stop  until  the  death  of  Hillel,  the  last  of  his 
descendants,  with  whom  the  office  of  Nasi  ceased  to  exist  (360). 
This  was  alone  one  of  the  causes  why  the  Talmud  of  Palestine 
spread  less  widely  than  its  younger  brother  of  Babylonia.  The 
lot  of  the  Talmud  in  Babylonia  was  better,  since  from  the  time 
of  the  death  of  Rabbi  (223)  till  Mar  b.  R.  Rah  Ashi,  one  of  the 
last  of  the  Amoraim  (500),  it  was  not  persecuted  by  the  Persian 
rulers.  For  about  a  himdred  years,  the  heads  of  the  Exile  were 
diligent  in  their  studies,  uniting  thereunto  its  political  power. 
If  it  sometimes  happened  that  some  kings  were  ill-disposed  to 
the  Jews,  still  they  did  not  interfere  with  their  studies.*  For 
this  reason  the  study  of  the  Talmud  flourished  in  the  colleges 
of  Sura,  Nahardea  and  Pumbeditha,  and  the  number  of  its 
students  was  counted  by  thousands.  (The  Talmud  coimts  the 
auditors  of  Abba  Arikha's  [Rabb's]  lectures  as  1 2 ,000. )  And  so 
the  Talmud  became  a  vast  sea,  and  its  waves  rose  with  might. 
R.  Ashi  (355-427)  saw,  therefore,  that  the  time  had  come  for 
revising,  systematizing  and  concluding  it,  when  he  came  to  re- 
store the  college  of  Sura  (Matha  Mekhasia),  which  had  fallen 
into  decay  on  the  death  of  Rabh. 

About  this  R.  Ashi  it  was  said  (Sanhedrin,  p.  108)  that  from 
the  time  of  Rabbi  to  his  time  there  is  not  to  be  found  a  man  who 
was  tmique  in  the  possession  of  wisdom,  riches  and  glory.     He 


*  Sec  Getzow,  "  Al  Naharoth  Babel." 


22  THE   HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

was  in  favor  with  King  Izgadar  II.,  rich  and  long-lived.  Theiie- 
fore,  he  undertook  in  the  course  of  one  year  to  systematize  two 
tracts.  Whether  he  arranged  them  in  the  order  in  which  the^r 
are  found  in  the  Alishnayoth,  or  differently,  or  whether  he  re- 
vised and  improved  them,  is  not  known  to  us;  but  this,  at 
least,  is  clear,  that  some  tracts  he  revised  twice,  and  the  second 
time  in  a  manner  opposite  to  the  first.*  Be  this  as  it  may,  it  is 
also  certain  that  the  Talmud  which  we  possess  is  not  that  which 
came  from  R.  Ashi's  hands,  since  additions  by  seven  heads  of 
the  colleges  who  succeeded  him  in  Sura,  and  by  their  colleagues, 
Meremar,  Idi  bar  Abin,  Nahman  bar  Huna,  Tabyomi  (Mar  b.  R. 
Ashi)  his  son,  Rabba  Tosphoah,  Rabina  bar  Hima,  Rabbana 
Jose,  who  presided  together  125  years,  are  mentioned  in  the 
Talmud,  none  of  which  are  found  in  R.  Ashi's  edition.  Perhaps 
they  also  made  eliminations  in  his  edition  though  they  did  not 
attain  the  learning  and  religious  wisdom  of  R.  Ashi,  except  his 
son,  Tabyomi.  The  latter  filled  the  place  of  his  father  in  learn- 
ing and  wisdom,  though  not  in  his  breadth  of  view,  for  in  his 
time  reigned  King  Pcros,  the  son  of  Izgadar  III.,  who  perse- 
cuted the  Jews,  the  Talmud,  and  those  who  cherished  it. 
Therefore,  even  if  we  suppose  that  his  son  Mar  was  diligent  in 
arranging  and  revising  the  Talmud,  as  traces  of  his  insertions 
and  corrections  are  found  in  it,  yet  he  did  not  succeed  in  com- 
pleting it,  owing  to  the  persecutions  of  the  government,  espe- 
cially as  he  did  not  occupy  his  office  long,  and  thus  the  Talmud 
has  remained  uncorrected.  But  as  the  sages  became  aware  that 
the  times  were  changing,  the  number  of  learned  men  diminish- 
ing, they  began  to  fear  lest  in  the  course  of  time,  passages  would 
multiply  in  the  Talmud  which  would  rather  detract  from  than 
add  to  its  value ;  therefore  they  concluded  it,  and  decreed  that 
thenceforth  nothing  should  be  added  to  it.  They  also  ordered 
that  the  sages  should  no  more  be  called  "Amoraim"  (signify- 
ing commentators  of  the  Mishna),  but  Saburaim  {i.e.,  explainers 
of  the  Talmud  to  the  people).  Thus  the  Talmud  was  con- 
cluded in  the  age  of  Rabbana  Jose  (about  525),  without  further 
revision  or  rearranging.  In  reality,  however,  these  sages 
achieved  almost  nothing;  for,  despite  their  decree,  the  Sobu- 
rites  (as  also  many  of  its  enemies)  as  well  as  the  Gaonim  and  the 

*  Vide  "  Last  Gate,"  356b. 


THE   SOBURITES.  23 

rabbis  succeeding  them,  added  to  and  eliminated  from  it  and 
altered  in  many  places  its  version,  as  I.  H.  Weiss  has  proved 
beyond  dispute  and  also  we  ourselves  in  our  book  "L'baker 
Mishpat"  and  in  the  journal  "Hakol"  many  times,  as  will  be 
mentioned  further  on.     (See  App.  No.  10.) 


CHAPTER  VI. 

THE  PERSECUTIONS  OF  THE  TALMUD  IN  THE  PERSIAN  AND  BY- 
ZANTINE EMPIRES  IN  THE  SIXTH  CENTURY  AFTER  THE  CLOSE 
OF  THE  TALMUD. 

In  the  reign  of  Kobad  (Cabades)  in  Persia,  a  fanatic  reformer 
named  Mazdak  desired  to  introduce  the  doctrine  of  the  com- 
munity of  property  and  wives,  thus  modifying  the  Zoroastrian 
creed  (501).  The  king  became  an  adherent  of  the  new  doc- 
trine and  decreed  its  acceptance  by  the  people.  The  lower 
classes  eagerly  availed  themselves  of  the  license  thus  granted. 
To  this  communism,  the  Jews,  led  by  Mar  Zutra  II.,  son  of  R. 
Htma,  the  young  exilarch,  offered  an  armed  resistance.  The 
occasion  of  the  revolt  was  the  murder  of  Mar  Isaac,  president 
of  one  of  the  colleges.  It  is  related  that  they  established  an 
independent  Jewish  state,  having  for  king  the  Prince  of  Cap- 
tivity, with  Machuza  as  the  capital.  At  last,  after  seven  years, 
Mar  Zutra  and  his  grandfather,  Mar  Chanina,  were  taken 
prisoners,  executed,  and  their  bodies  nailed  to  the  cross  on  the 
bridge  of  Machuza  (about  520).  On  account  of  the  ensuing 
persecutions  the  office  of  Exilarch  remained  for  some  time  in 
abeyance.  The  colleges  were  closed,  as  the  teachers  were  com- 
pelled to  conceal  themselves,  and  Abuna  and  Giza,  two  of  the 
most  eminent,  fled.  When  peace  was  restored  after  Kobad's 
death,  the  college  at  Sura  received  Giza  as  president,  and  that 
at  Pumbeditha,  Semuna.  A  third  name  of  eminence  survives, 
that  of  Rabbi  or  Rab  (near  Nahardea) ,  of  whom  little  is  known. 
Men  of  religious  mind  of  the  period  devoted  themselves  to  the 
study  of  the  Talmud,  the  love  for  which  persecution  had  but  in- 
creased, which  satisfied  religious  zeal  and  promoted  tran- 
quillity of  mind,  and  the  knowledge  of  which  raised  its  possessor 
to  positions  of  honor  and  trust. 

The  original  development  of  the  Talmud  had  at  that  period 


24  THE   HISTORY   OF  THE   TALMUD. 

ceased.  Giza  and  Semuna  conceived  the  desire  to  fix  the  laws 
for  practical  use,  casting  aside  theoretical  speculation,  for  it 
was  necessary  that  there  be  no  doubts  or  wavering.  Their 
activity  in  this  work  was  but  a  continuation  of  that  which  had 
begun  at  the  close  of  the  Talmud,  The  labors  of  the  presidents 
of  the  colleges  were  confined  to  this  task  and  to  assembling,  as 
of  old,  the  disciples  in  Adar  (March)  and  Ellul  (September)  and 
instiiicting  them  by  lectures,  and  to  assigning  themes  for  pri- 
vate study.  To  fix  the  laws,  the  arguments  pro  and  con  needed 
to  be  weighed;  therefore  they  were  called  Sabureans  (Saburai). 
Many  points  of  practice  in  the  ritual,  the  civil  law,  and  the  mar- 
riage code  were  settled  at  this  period. 

Giza  and  Semuna  gave  chief  attention  to  committing  the 
Talmud  to  writing,  making  use  of  oral  traditions  and  of  notes 
made  to  aid  the  memory  by  various  individuals.  All  legends 
were  incorporated,  and  the  obscure  passages  elucidated  by  their 
additions,  for  everything  emanating  from  the  Amoraim  was 
thought  important.  In  this  form  it  has  reached  us.  The 
vowel  points  to  the  Bible  were  also  invented  at  this  time,  ac- 
cording to  Graetz, 

"The  names  of  the  immediate  successors  of  Giza  and  Se- 
muna have  not  been  preserved  either  by  chronicles  or  tradi- 
tion"— forgotten  in  the  persecution  visited  on  the  colleges  dur- 
ing this  century  by  both  Christian  and  Zoroastrian  churches. 

Hormisdas  IV.,  Chosroes  Nushirvan's  son,  was  unlike  his 
father.  Led  by  the  Magi,  who  strove  to  check  the  approach- 
ing dissolution  of  their  religion  by  persecution  of  the  adher- 
ents of  other  faiths,  he  vented  his  wrath  upon  the  Jews  and 
Christians  of  his  empire.  The  Talmudical  colleges  at  Sura  and 
Pumbcditha  were  closed,  and  again  many  teachers  fled  (about 
581)  this  time  to  Firuzshabar,  where,  under  an  Arabian  gov- 
ernor, they  were  less  exposed  to  espionage.  New  colleges  arose 
there,  among  which  that  of  Mari  was  eminent,  and  there  they 
continued  their  Talmudic  labors.  A  general,  Babram  Tshubin, 
who  had  experienced  the  ingratitude  of  the  king,  usurped  the 
Persian  throne.  In  this  he  was  assisted  by  the  Jews  with 
money  and  men,  and  in  return  granted  them  many  favors  and 
concessions.  As  a  result,  the  colleges  of  Sura  and  Pumbcditha 
were  reopened;  Chanan  of  Iskia  returned  from  Firuzshabar  to 
Pumbcditha,  and  restored  the  college  there ;  it  is  also  probable 


HORMISDAS   IV.  25 

that  the  president  of  Sura,  which  was  of  far  greater  repute,  was 
elected  at  that  time,  though  his  name  is  not  mentioned  in  the 
chronicles. 

With  Babram's  fall  the  vengeance  of  the  lawful  heir  to  the 
throne,  Prince  Chosru,  was  visited  on  the  Tews.  With  the  aid 
of  the  Byzantine  emperor,  Mauritius,  and  the  loyal  portion  of 
the  Persian  people,  he  defeated  the  usurper,  putting  to  the 
sword  also  the  greater  part  of  the  Jewish  population  of  Machuza, 
and  probably  of  other  cities  as  well. 

CHAPTER  VII. 

THE  EIGHTH  CENTURY.  THE  DOMINION  OF  THE  GAONIM.  THE 
OPPOSITION  OF  THE  KARAITES.  THE  ESTABLISHMENT  OF  A 
SECT  OF  THAT  NAME, 

The  Pharisees  had  been  victorious  over  the  Sadducees  and 
the  other  sects  opposed  to  the  Oral  Law,  but  had  not  annihil- 
ated them  entirely ;  since  only  because  these  latter  could  not 
withstand  them,  they  kept  silence  and  were  discontented  in 
their  hearts.  As  the  Talmud  gained  strength  and  became  more 
severe  in  its  decrees  against  the  Sadducees  and  Samaritans,  so 
that  in  the  end  the  Kuthim  were  declared  as  idolaters  in  all 
respects,  then  their  indignation  burned  and  they  awaited  a 
favorable  time  for  revenge.  In  the  time  of  the  dominance  of 
the  Gaonim,  who  carried  out  the  Talmud  in  practice,  the  meas- 
ure became  full,  and  Anan,  the  nephew  of  the  Gaon  at  Sura, 
when  he  was  not  elected  as  Gaon,  for  the  reason  of  his  liberal 
ideas  and  his  opposition  to  the  Talmud,  established  the  Karaite 
sect. 

Those  who  hold  that  the  Karaites  were  a  new  sect  foimded 
by  Anan  (760  C.E.),  are  mistaken,  for  a  srnall  sect  under  the 
name  of  Karaites,  or  adherents  of  the  Text,  had  existed  already 
in  the  days  of  the  Talmud,  where  they  are  mentioned  in  many 
places,  as  "  adherents  of  the  Text,"  or  once  "  the  Karaites  add" 
(Pesachim,  117a  in  text;  in  our  edition.  Vol.  V.,  p.  145). 
Doubtless  the  remainder  of  the  Sadducees  assumed  this  name, 
having  lost  political  influence  since  they  had  been  vanquished, 
and  the  word  ' '  Sadducees ' '  being  hated  by  the  people.  There- 
fore the  remains  of  the  sect  called  themselves  "Karaites,"  i,e. 


36  THE   HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

those  who  occupy  themselves  with  the  text  of  Scripture,  and 
endeavor  to  understand  its  real  meaning.  Owing  to  their 
small  numbers,  or  to  the  lack  of  a  great  man  to  head  them,  this 
sect  kept  secret  its  hatred  of  the  Talmud,  though  it  existed  so 
long  as  to  outlive  even  the  close  of  the  latter,  and  the  Talmudic 
sages  paid  no  attention  to  them.  Finally,  however,  chance  gave 
them  a  man  fit  to  be  their  leader,  who  publicly  opposed  the 
Talmud  so  that  all  its  enemies  made  one  league  against  it,  and 
they  were  at  first  a  great  power ;  and  in  the  course  of  700  years 
they  did  not  cease  to  persecute  the  Talmud  and  almost  des- 
stroyed  it;  finally,  however,  they  lost  their  influence  which 
they  never  regained,  and  to-day  are  decayed  so  that  small 
numbers  only  live  in  Austria,  Crimea,  and  many  other  places 
in  Russia,  numbering  in  all  to-day  no  more  than  4,000  or  5,000 
souls  altogether. 

This  man  was  Anan  ben  David,  nephew  of  the  exilarch 
Solomon,  in  Bagdad,  who  had  died  childless.  Anan  expected 
to  be  elected  as  his  successor,  but  his  younger  brother  was 
chosen  instead,  and  he  was  rejected  because  of  his  liberal  ideas 
and  want  of  sympathy  with  the  Talmud.  Then  he  publicly 
began  to  make  war  on  the  Talmud  and  Talmudists,  and  became 
the  head  of  all  its  opponents  and  ill-wishers.  He  made  his 
headquarters  at  Jerusalem,  after  having  been,  it  seems,  obliged 
to  leave  Babylonia.  There  he  assumed  the  title  of  exilarch, 
and  around  him  were  assembled  a  great  multitude  who  made 
war  on  the  Oral  Law,  its  scholars,  and  in  particular  on  the  two 
colleges  of  Sura  and  Pumbeditha. 

By  his  general  precept,  "Search  well  in  the  Scriptures,"  he 
declared  as  naught  the  whole  Oral  Law.  And  wishing  to  find 
favor  in  the  eyes  of  the  Caliphs,  who  fixed  the  dates  of  theif 
festivals  by  observation  of  the  new  moon,  he  also  renewed  this 
custom,  once  in  force  among  the  Jews  while  the  Temple  had  ex- 
isted, repealing  thus  the  calculation  of  R.  Adda  received  among 
all  Talmudists.  He  openly  said  to  the  Caliph  Almanzur  that 
the  Jews  had  been  guilty  of  persecuting  Jesus  and  opposing 
Mahomet,  though  (said  he)  both  these  men  did  much  to  drive 
idolatry  out  of  existence,  and  cannot  be  attacked  without  guilt. 
Of  the  first  he  said  that  he  had  been  a  holy  man  who  did  not 
want  to  appear  as  a  prophet,  or  a  god,  but  only  desired  to  re- 
form the  faith  which  the  Pharisees  had  perverted.     Of  the  sec- 


THE    KARAITES.  27 

ond  he  said  that  he  really  was  a  prophet  for  the  Arabs,  only  he 
does  not  believe  that  the  Law  (of  Moses)  is  repealed  by  Mahom- 
medanism. 

His  first  work  was  to  separate  himself  from  the  Jews  by  fix- 
ing the  date  of  Pentecost  to  be  fifty  days  after  the  first  Sabbath 
after  Passover,  as  the  Sadducees  fixed  it  formerly.  The  dates 
of  New  Year  and  the  Day  of  Atonement,  Passover  and  the 
Feast  of  Booths  were  determined  by  watching  for  the  new 
moon,  which  did  not  agree  with  the  Jewish  dates.  As  in  the 
leap  year  one  month  is  added  to  the  year,  he  allowed,  in  case  of 
need,  to  begin  Passover  when  barley  is  ripe  in  the  fields.  The 
Phylacteries  (not  a  grave  ceremony  among  the  Jews,  at  any 
"*  rate),  the  four  species  of  the  Lulab  and  the  semi-holiday  Han- 
uka  (Dedication),  he  abohshed.  On  the  other  hand  he  made 
the  observation  of  Sabbath  more  burdensome,  so  that  the  light- 
ing of  candles  was  prohibited  on  the  eve  of  Sabbath,  even  by  a 
non-Jew,  also  the  leaving  of  one's  house  during  Sabbath  when 
most  neighbors  are  not  Jews,  i.e.  Karaites;  the  dietary  laws 
he  also  made  stricter,  so  as  to  prohibit  his  adherents  eating  in 
company  with  Jews  for  the  latter  are  not  careful  enough  and 
oftentimes  eat  with  Gentiles, 

Soon  Anan  saw  that  if  every  one  were  left  to  interpret  the  Bibli- 
cal text  according  to  his  own  mind,  etc.,  his  sect  would  be  split, 
and  not  endure  (as  actually  was  the  case  in  the  course  of  time, 
as  will  be  explained  further  on),  and  that  a  fixed  commentary 
is  needed  at  least  for  those  passages  which  can  by  no  means  be 
interpreted  literally.  Therefore  he  claimed  many  great  authori- 
ties, long  deceased,  as  Karaites,  and  declared  that  R.  Jehuda  b. 
Tabai,  the  colleague  of  Simeon  b.  Shetah,  etc,  Shamai  the  elder, 
the  colleague  of  Hillel  the  Elder,  and  other  such,  were  some  of 
the  foimders  of  their  sect,  and  he  ascribed  to  them  some  inter- 
pretations of  passages  which  he  claimed  to  have  received  by 
tradition  from  them ,  ' '  Abandon  the  Talmud  and  Mishna, ' '  he 
said  to  his  followers,  "  and  I  will  make  you  a  Talmud  of  my  own, 
according  to  the  traditions  I  have. ' '  Though  in  reality  he  took 
the  rules  of  the  Mishna  as  basis,  yet  he  said  that  as  far  as  details 
are  concerned  he  is  as  wise  as  the  sages  of  the  Mishna,  or  more 
so,  and  can  construe  the  Biblical  texts  by  his  own  intellect. 

His  hatred  of  the  Talmud  became  so  great  that  he  said  that 
if  he  could  have  swallowed  the  Talmud,  he  would  cast  himself 


28  THE   HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

into  a  lime -kiln,  that  it  might  be  burned  with  him  and  leave  no 
vestige  of  its  existence.  Thus  the  people  of  Israel  separated 
itself  then  into  two  hostile  hosts.  The  Talmudists  declared  the 
Karaites  not  to  be  Jews,  and  forbade  to  give  them  any  holy 
ceremony  to  perform,  while  the  Karaites  said  of  the  followers 
of  the  rabbis  that  they  are  Jewish  sinners,  and  it  is  sinful  to 
intermarry  with  them.  The  city  of  Jerusalem  witnessed  for 
the  third  time  a  splitting  of  Israel  into  parties. 

Of  Anan's  writing  we  loiow  nothing,  although  according  to 
the  Karaites  he  wrote  some  comments  on  the  Bible  and  prayers. 
From  the  compositions  imputed  by  them  to  him,  we  can  see 
that  only  the  love  of  resistance  and  victory  absorbed  him ;  how 
great  his  learning  was  we  can  not  judge,  as  in  general  his  biog- 
raphy is  unknown  to  us,  but  it  is  known  that  he  was  not  given 
to  philosophy,  nor  ingenious  in  interpreting  Scripture.  One 
good  effect  we  can  ascribe  to  him,  that,  owing  to  his  opposition, 
the  Talmudic  rabbis  were  also  forced  to  pay  more  attention  to 
thfc.  Scriptures,  and  make  researches  and  learn  the  niceties  of 
the  Hebrew  language,  so  that  Anan  and  his  sect  were  the  prime 
cause  of  all  the  compositions  on  grammar,  Massorah  and  vowel 
points,  and  even  poetic  compositions  that  the  Talmudists  gave 
birth  to  in  the  course  of  time. 

After  Anan's  death  Saul,  his  son,  succeeded  him  as  exilarch 
of  the  Karaites,  but  Anan's  disciples  separated  from  him,  as 
they  did  not  agree  with  him  about  some  ceremonies,  according 
ing  to  Saul's  interpretation  of  biblical  passages.  They  became 
a  distinct  sect  calling  themselves  Ananites ;  so  it  also  happened 
after  the  death  of  Saul,  who  was  succeeded  by  Josiah,  his  son. 
And  so  almost  every  age  sprang  a  new  Karaite  sect  with  a  name 
of  its  own,  each  interpreting  Scripture  in  its  own  way.  Some 
of  them  will  be  mentioned  presently.  It  is  self-evident  that 
an  attempt  to  get  at  the  profound  meaning  of  the  Scriptures 
was  the  business  of  every  such  sect ;  through  their  activity  the 
knowledge  of  Hebrew  grammar,  of  Massorah,  the  vowel-points 
and  punctuation  marks,  was  diffused ;  theological  philosophizing 
was  also  not  strange  to  some  Karaites,  as  they  had  to  explain 
such  words  as  God's  "  hand,"  "  eye,"  "  finger,"  which  they  were 
unwilling  to  take  literally  and  materialize  God,  just  as  the  other 
Jews.  Thus  gradually  a  large  literature  sprang  among  the  Kara- 
ites, not  inferior,  taken  as  a  whole,  to  the  Talmud  itself  in  btdk. 


THE   KARAITES.  29 

At  all  events,  the  Talmud  was  menaced  by  a  much  greater 
danger  from  these  internal  enemies  than  from  its  external  foes. 
For  the  latter  did  not  attack  the  Talmud  itself,  except  so  far  as 
it  was  an  obstacle  in  their  way,  but  their  main  and  avowed  ob- 
ject was  to  convert  the  Jews  to  another  religion,  or  even  merely 
to  fill  their  own  pockets  with  Jewish  gold,  given  to  avert  the 
persecution  instigated  for  that  very  purpose.  The  Talmud  was 
then  attacked  only  incidentally,  not  for  its  sake,  while  the  main 
object  was  something  else. 

But  the  Karaites  made  it  their  great  aim  to  drive  the  Tal- 
mud itself  out  of  existence,  to  direct  their  arrows  against  it  for 
its  own  sake,  and  endeavored  to  bring  about,  that  the  Jews 
should  become  Christians,  or  Mussulmans,  or  join  any  sect 
whatever,  the  Karaites  did  not  care  which,  provided  that  the 
Jews  should  forsake  the  hateful  Talmud,  and  its  Halakhas  and 
Hagadas  should  get  lost.  Therefore  the  struggle  with  them  was 
very  great,  especially  as  they  pretended  that  their  traditions 
were  based  on  the  great  authorities  of  the  remnants  of  the 
nation. 

As  their  doctrines,  however,  were  not  fixed,  and  as  almost 
every  age  the  Karaites  were  split  into  diverse  sects,  therefore 
they  could  not  resist  or  make  headway  against  the  Talmud, 
whose  strength  is,  to  those  who  rightly  imderstand  it,  that  it 
has  never  purposed  to  make  fixed  rules,  to  last  for  all  ages; 
deliberation  and  reasoniag  concerning  the  Halakhas  according 
to  the  circumstances,  is  the  principle  of  the  Talmud ;  and  the 
saying  of  the  Talmud,  "  even  when  they  say  to  you  of  right  that 
it  is  left,  and  of  left  that  it  is  right,  thou  shalt  not  swerve  from 
the  commandment,"  shows  the  opinion  of  the  Talmud,  that  the 
practice  of  the  ceremonies  and  precepts  is  dependent  on  the 
time,  place  and  other  circumstances.  With  this  power  the 
Talmud  combatted  all  its  enemies,  and  was  victorious. 

The  controversies  between  the  Jews  and  the  Karaites  are 
recorded  in  many  books,  Karaite  and  Talmudistic,  from  the  age 
of  R.  Saadia  the  Gaon,  and  his  opponent  Sahal  ben  Matzliah  to 
the  present  time.  In  them  can  also  be  found  the  history  of 
their  alternate  triumphs.  But  this  is  not  our  task  here:  we 
will  remark  only  that  from  the  days  of  R.  Saadiah  the  Gaon, 
when  the  Rabbis  had  begun  to  have  polemics  with  them,  can  be 
seen  the  deep  mark  the  Karaite  literature  left  on  the  Rabbinical 


30  THE   HISTORY   OF  THE   TALMUD. 

one.  Philosophy  was  from  that  time  used  in  conjunction  with 
the  Torah ;  many  Gaonim  followed  R.  Saadiah's  method  of  har- 
monizing the  Torah  and  the  philosophy  of  that  time,  that  they 
should  seem  as  mutual  enemies.  So  the  Karaites  charged  such 
men  with  infidelity,  but  others  were  themselves  compelled  to 
imitate  them,  and  called  in  the  aid  of  philosophy,  of  the  divin- 
ity, to  interpret  the  texts  of  the  Holy  Scriptures. 

The  effect  of  the  Karaites  on  the  Talmudist  Rabbis  is  made 
evident  also  in  this :  that  since  their  time  the  rabbis  also  began 
to  write  down  fixed  Halakhas  taken  from  the  Talmud,  that  the 
readers  should  not  otherwise  by  error  adopt  the  Karaite  rules, 
made  by  the  Karaite  leaders,  which  they  might  mistake  for  the 
rules  of  the  Talmud  itself,  since  they  could  not  know  the  whole 
Talmud  by  heart.  They  composed,  therefore,  the  "  Hala- 
khoth  G'doloth"  (Great  Halakhas),  "Sh'iltoth'derab  A'hai" 
(Queries  of  R.  Ahai),  for  the  sake  of  the  students,  who  could  not 
themselves  wade  through  the  whole  Talmud.  But  thereby 
they  opposed  the  spirit  and  object  of  the  Talmud  itself,  that  the 
Halakhas  should  be  matter  for  discussion,  and  modified  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  requirements  of  the  time  and  place.  As  soon 
as  the  Gaonim  had  permitted  to  propound  decisions  of  the 
Halakhas,  and  to  fix  them,  those  Gaonim,  who  succeeded  them, 
were  compelled  to  teach  that  these  decisions  of  the  former 
Gaonim,  even  though  given  without  proofs,  are  holy  for  the 
people,  as  if  given  from  Mount  Sinai.  This  circumstance  added 
fuel  to  the  quarrel  of  the  Karaites,  and  gave  them  new  points  of 
attack.  The  hope  of  some  great  men  of  the  nation  to  reconcile 
the  Jews  with  the  Karaites  became  naught,  for  although  the 
Karaites  quarrelled  among  themselves,  and  split  into  rival  sects, 
yet  they  all  equally  hated  the  Talmud,  reviled  it,  and  insulted 
it,  styling  the  two  colleges,  at  Sura  and  Pumbeditha,  "the  two 
harlots"  spoken  of  in  Ezekiel,  who  (claimed  they)  referred  to 
these  colleges  in  his  prophecy. 

According  to  Makrizi  there  were  among  the  Karaites  ten 
sects,  differing  from  each  other  in  their  opinions,  practice  and 
festivals ;  they  had  no  permanence,  some  rose,  some  fell,  and  in 
the  tenth  century  only  five  large  sects  were  fotmd,  named : 

1.  Jod'anim  or  Jodganim, 

2.  Makrites  or  Magrites. 

3.  Akhbarites, 


THE    KARAITES.  31 

4.  Abn  Amronites  or  Tiflisites. 

5.  Balbekites. 

The  reader  will  find  in  the  books  of  Jost,  Gratz,  Furst, 
Geiger,  and  in  Hebrew,  in  "  Bequoreth  L'toldoth  Hakaraim" 
an  account  of  the  particulars  about  which  the  various  sects  of 
the  Karaites  differed,  and  also  the  names  of  their  leaders.  We 
do  not  think  it  necessary  to  give  these  details  in  this  place.  We 
will  mention  for  illustration  the  latest  sect,  which  wished  to  fix 
the  day  of  Atonement  only  on  a  Saturday  every  year,  because 
it  is  said  "  Sabbath  Sabbathan,"  which  means  a  Sabbath  of  rest 
(Lev.  xxiii.  32),  and  they  translate  "a  Sabbath  of  Sabbaths," 
and  the  first  day  of  Passover  on  Thursday.  Thus  each  Karaite 
sect  celebrated  the  Biblical  festivals  on  different  days,  for  each 
sect  construed  the  texts  in  the  Pentateuch  by  preference  with- 
out being  able  to  come  to  an  agreement.  Thus  also  in  respect 
of  the  observation  of  Sabbath :  for  some  Karaites,  their  houses 
were  during  the  Sabbath  their  prisons,  where  they  did  sit  in 
darkness,  and  which  they  could  not  leave  when  their  neigh- 
bors happened  not  to  be  Karaites  like  themselves.  In  this  we 
see  the  power  of  the  Talmud,  that  even  those  who  were  inimical 
to  it  or  hostile  to  a  large  portion  of  it,  Halakhas  never  had  dif- 
ferent opinions  concerning  the  festivals  and  other  such  things, 
important  to  one  particular  nation ;  for  they  could  not  deny  its 
general  tradition. 

The  effects  of  Karaism  are  also  traceable  in  some  religious 
practices,  which  had  not  been  usual  among  the  people  of  ancient 
times.  Thus  Phylacteries,  which  it  had  not  been  customary 
to  use,  in  spite  of  the  literal  interpretation  of  the  Talmud  of  the 
passage  "  and  thou  shalt  bind  them  for  a  sign  upon  thy  hand, 
and  they  shall  be  as  frontlets  between  thine  eyes,"  (Deut.  vi.  8) ; 
perhaps  for  the  reason  that  Hillel  had  said:  "Leave  Israel 
alone ;  if  they  are  not  prophets,  they  are  children  of  prophets," 
(Pesachim) ;  for  after  all,  the  arguments  of  the  Talmud  in  favor 
of  the  literakiess  of  that  passage,  the  people  felt  that  it  was  only 
a  figurative  expression ;  and  the  Talmud  itself  prohibited  the 
use  of  phylacteries  to  the  people,  permitting  it  only  to  con- 
firmed scholars.  But  when  the  Karaites  interpreted  the  pas- 
sage figuratively,  the  Gaonim  permitted  the  use  of  Tephilin  to 
the  people  also,  to  show  their  difference  from  the  Karaites. 

The  opposition  of   the   Karaites   effected  also  that  the 


32  THE   HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

Gaonim  should  declare  that  the  Hagada  of  the  Talmud  is  not 
obligatory  to  believe  for  any  man ;  and  that  it  is  not  to  be 
taken  literally,  but  as  allegorical.  "Leave  to  every  one  the 
right  to  hold  what  opinions  he  chooseth  about  the  Hagada  of 
the  Talmud"  says  R.  Samuel  b.  Hopni,  father-in-law  to  Hai 
Gaon,  to  ward  off  the  attacks  of  the  Karaites  and  opponents  of 
the  Talmud  generally,  who  made  it  responsible  for  many  Hagadic 
things  cautioned  in  it.  And  indeed  we  see  that  the  collections 
of  Halakhas  from  the  Talmud,  as  Rab  Alphasi  and  his  col- 
leagues inserted  but  little  of  the  Hagada,  as  if  to  show  that  the 
Hagadas  are  not  minded.  Though  in  truth  the  Hagadas  of  the 
Talmud  relating  to  morality  are  the  main  element  of  the  Tal- 
mud, mostly  require  no  change,  addition,  or  subtraction,  even 
in  our  age.  While  on  the  other  hand,  the  absence  of  the  ethics 
of  the  Talmudic  Hagada  is  painfully  felt  in  Karaite  literature  to 
the  present  day.  In  points  of  morality  their  opinions  are  as 
various  as  concerning  the  Halakhas,  in  the  course  of  time  issued 
from  the  Karaite  ascetics  who  abstained  from  meat  and  wine, 
left  their  homxcs,  dwelt  in  deserts,  and  mourned  over  the  de- 
struction of  Jerusalem.  The  Karaites  styled  them  "the  sixty 
heroes  who  are  around  Solomon's  bed,"  for  there  were  sixty  in 
number,  and  called  them  the  great  teachers,  for  they  had  been 
taught  by  them  that  it  is  not  legal  to  eat  meat  in  exile,  since  a 
text  says  one  should  not  slaughter  outside  the  camp.  In  con- 
trast with  these,  from  among  the  Karaites  came  also  Hiri 
Hakalhi  or  Habalki  who,  owing  to  his  opposition  to  the  Tal- 
mud, denied  also  Moses'  Torah,  providence,  creation,  etc.,  so 
that  the  Karaites  repulsed  him  also.  There  were  among  them 
also  some  who  believed  in  a  material  God,  eating  something  of 
the  sacrifices,  and  enjoying  the  agreeable  flavor  of  them.  Such 
was  the  destiny  of  those  who  rejected  tradition,  and  relied  on 
their  own  intellect. 

The  issue  was  that,  though  among  the  Karaites  were  also 
great  men  and  great  sects — and  many  times  they  triumphed 
over  the  Talmudists  for  centuries — the  following  peculiarities, 
made  them  a  sect  secluded  from  the  whole  world  (especially 
from  the  Rabbis,  who  were  to  them  as  if  unclean) ;  their  scrupu- 
lousness about  cleanliness  and  uncleanliness,  their  separation 
from  anybody  who  was  not  a  Karaite  Jew,  so  as  not  to  take 
from  him  bread  and  other  articles  of  the  bakery,  and  so  as  not 


THB    KARAITES.  33 

to  eat  anything  that  had  been  touched  by  a  non-Jew  (some 
prohibited  even  meat  fit  f9r  a  sacrifice).  Gradually  their  num- 
bers diminished,  so  that  now  they  number  only  about  four 
thousand  souls  in  the  world,  and  even  these  few  differ  among 
themselves  in  their  usages  and  festivals.  To  this  day  the 
Karaites  in  Egypt  and  the  East  remain  in  the  dark  during  the 
eve  of  Sabbath ;  the  dates  of  their  festivals  are  not  alike  every 
year,  and  by  their  attacks  on  the  Talmud  they  not  only  failed 
to  weaken  its  influence  or  diminish  the  number  of  its  adherents, 
but  brought  about  its  increased  influence  and  accepted  holiness. 
Though  the  Rabbis  kept  apart  from  them,  and  said  to  those 
who  wished  to  make  peace  between  them,  "the  Karaites  (01 
torn  pieces,  Kraini  Kra'-im),  never  became  joined,"  still  they  did 
not  forbear  to  borrow  from  them  what  seemed  to  them  good, 
adopting  the  Massorah  and  vowel  points  of  Ben  Asher,  who 
was  one  of  them. 

About  the  Judaized  Chazars,  of  their  time,  the  Karaites  say 
that  they  had  the  Karaite  form  of  Judaism,  but  modem  scholars  ■ 
contradict  this.  They  say  that  the  Chazars  were  Talmudic 
Jews  and  A.  B.  Gottlober  has  written  admirably  about  this 
subject.  His  argument  seems  to  savor  of  the  truth.  But 
there  is  no  doubt,  that  among  the  Jewish  tribes  of  Arabia,  and 
those  of  the  Judaized  Arabian  kingdom,  there  were  Talmudic 
Jews  who  rendered  many  services  to  the  Jews  of  the  Byzantine 
empire ;  but  as  these  matters  do  not  pertain  to  our  subject,  we 
will  not  speak  further  of  them,  and  conclude  hereby  the  present 
chapter.     (See  App.  at  the  end  of  this  volume.) 

CHAPTER  Vni. 

ISLAM  AND  ITS  INFLUENCE  ON  THE  TALMUD. 

In  622,  the  Hebrew  religion  gave  birth  to  a  second  daughter, 
Mohammedanism— founded  by  Mahomet  of  Mecca  among  the 
tribes  of  Arabia,  who  had  lived  unprogressive  for  ages  in  the 
large  peninsula  between  the  Red  Sea  and  the  Persian  Gulf, 
keeping  by  the  usages  received  from  their  ancestors  tradition- 
ally. Hundreds  of  years  had  passed  without  making  any 
impression  on  the  development  of  this  people,  until  Mahom- 
med  arose,  and  in  the  space  of  twenty  years  subdued  with  the 
3 


34  THE   HISTORY   OF  THE   TALMUD. 

sword  and  by  the  tongue  the  whole  great  land  of  Arabia.  And 
like  a  stream  of  mighty  waters  the  Arabs  burst  from  their 
bonds,  animated  by  a  spirit  of  war,  and  fired  by  religious 
zeal,  tore  away  from  the  Byzantine  empire  the  whole  of  Syria 
and  Egypt,  and  conquered  also  Persia,  extended  their  em- 
pire to  India  and  Caucasus,  on  the  one  hand,  and  to  West- 
em  Africa,  on  the  other,  spreading,  at  last,  over  Spain  and 
Southern  Italy  to  the  heart  of  Christendom,  preaching  Islam, 
and  bearing  the  banner  of  their  prophet  wherever  they  stepped. 

For  the  second  time,  after  an  interval  of  six  htmdred  years, 
Judaism  witnessed  a  new  faith  bom,  all  whose  choice  portions, 
all  whose  good  and  beauty,  were  taken  from  the  storehouse  of 
the  Talmudic  Hagada.  When  Mahomet  arose  to  say  that 
through  Gabriel,  the  angel,  the  Lord  had  destined  him  to  con- 
firm the  truth  of  the  Divine  revelation  previously  to  Abraham, 
Isaac  and  Jacob,  Moses  and  the  rest  of  the  saints  who  had  been 
on  earth,  he  borrowed  only  the  foimdation  of  his  idea  from 
the  Hagada  of  the  Talmud.  Likewise  he  borrowed  many  say- 
ings, traditions,  and  historic  legends  from  the  same  source,  and 
these  materials  served  him  as  the  foundation  of  the  principles 
he  prescribed  for  the  guidance  of  his  people.  All  the  Hebrew 
plants  succeeded  speedily  on  the  Arabian  soil,  as  if  they  had 
been  native. 

Islam  grew  in  power  and  soon  made  progress,  political  and 
ecclesiastical,  for  new  forces  joined  it.  It  reared  a  new  civiliza- 
tion on  the  ruins  of  the  heathen  culture  of  Syria.  During  the 
first  century  of  its  existence  it  likewise  exercised  an  influence 
on  the  scholars  of  the  Talmud.  As  the  Greek  spirit  had  for- 
merly been  wedded  to  the  Jewish  spirit,  so  now  the  Arabian 
was  wedded  to  it.  It  might  have  supplanted  Jewish  thought 
altogether  had  not  the  many  sages,  adherents  of  the  Talmud, 
written  excellent  books  in  Arabic,  extolling  the  Talmud,  its 
system  and  its  spirit. 

When  the  Jewish  tribes  of  Arabia,  some  of  these  powerful 
and  independent,  had  refused  to  believe  in  the  inspiration  of 
the  new  prophet,  Islam  arose  on  its  parent  Judaism,  as  Chris- 
tianity had  done  before;  persecutions,  massacres,  blood  and 
fire  and  exile  were  visited  on  the  adherents  of  the  Talmud. 
As  long  as  Mahomet  had  entertained  the  hope  of  gaining 
Jews  for  converts,  his  treatment  of  them  was  favorable  and 


ISLAM   AND   ITS   INFLUENCE.  35 

he  enjoined  in  the  Koran  not  to  be  inimical  to  adorers  of 
One  God.  He  even  wanted  to  make  the  date  of  the  fast  of 
Rhamadan  on  the  tenth  of  Tishri  (the  Day  of  Atonement),  as 
well  as  to  make  Jerusalem  the  centre  of  the  pilgrims  instead  of 
Mecca.  Perceiving,  however,  that  notwithstanding  all  this, 
Islam  gained  few  Jewish  converts,  he  turned  the  enemy  of  the 
Jews  and  became  wroth  against  them  ("  The  Vision  of  the  Cow  "  ; 
a  chapter  in  the  Koran)  and  persecuted  them  with  fury  and 
bloodthirstiness  as  infidels.  But  at  his  death  his  hatred  and 
intolerance  died  with  him,  the  Jews  found  peace  and  protection 
under  the  Caliphs,  and  the  Gaonim  could  establish  their  col- 
leges. When  Spain  was  added  in  711  by  the  General  Torick 
Aben  Zara,  bright  days  ensued  for  the  Jews ;  they  were  able  to 
devote  themselves  to  spiritual  activity  undisturbed,  also  to 
take  a  large  part  in  the  culture  of  science  which  flourished  in 
Spain.  Great  offices  and  high  posts  were  given  to  Talmudic 
Jews;  coimcillors,  authors  of  law  articles,  court  physicians 
and  ministers  were  taken  from  among  them.  Together  with 
their  civic  prosperity  their  spiritual  activity  made  progress, 
and  they  made  great  contributions  to  Judaism,  and  benefited 
their  co-religionists.  Rarely  were  they  visited  by  storms,  as  in 
Granada,  in  1603,  and  at  Cordova,  in  1157,  and  then  they  siif- 
fered  only  as  citizens. 

In  Egypt,  Syria,  Fez  and  Morocco,  wherever  Islam  domi- 
nated, Jewish  communities  flourished.  In  contrast  to  this,  the 
study  of  the  Torah  decayed  in  the  East,  and  from  Babylonia  it 
changed  its  place  to  Spain. 

The  prosperity  and  the  power  of  the  Jews  called  forth  envy 
and  opposition,  resulting  in  the  desertion  of  some  Jews  to 
Islam;  and  this  spirit  of  opposition  was  kindled  yet  more  by 
false  Messiahs  arising  frequently,  as  Shiraini  in  720  and  Abu 
Eiei  in  1464,  in  the  reign  of  the  Caliph  Merian,  who  op- 
posed themselves  to  the  Talmud  with  all  their  might  (the  last 
abolished  also  divorce) .  In  spite  of  all  that,  the  Talmud  was 
honored  as  before.  For  the  Gaonim  and  the  two  colleges  at 
Sura  and  Pumbeditha  were  as  beacons  to  all  the  exiled  Jews  till 
the  second  half  of  the  tenth  century.  Only  a  singular  accident, 
which  happened  about  960,  put  an  end  to  this  unlimited  and 
imdivided  dominion  of  Babylonia  over  the  Jewish  minds.  Four 
scholars  had  left  Sura  with  the  purpose  of  collecting  money 


36  THE   HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

among  their  European  brethem,  for  the  benefit  ci  encouraging 
a  more  assiduous  study  of  the  Talmud  at  the  college  of  Sura ; 
the  vessel  being  captured  by  an  Arab  pirate,  the  four  sages 
were  sold  as  slaves.  One,  R.  Shemariah  b.  El'hanan  was  then 
brought  to  Alexandria ;  there  the  Jewish  community  ransomed 
him,  and  appointed  him  as  supervisor  of  religion  and  teacher  of 
the  Talmud  in  Cairo,  The  second,  R.  Hushiel,  was  sold  into 
slavery  at  the  African  coast,  and  brought  to  Kairuban.  The 
third,  R.  Moses  b.  Enoch  was  ransomed  from  his  owners  after 
many  hardships,  at  Cordova,  where  the  community  chose  him 
as  Rabbi.  The  name  of  the  fourth  has  not  transpired.  It  is 
possible  that  he  reached  France.  The  four  men,  not  having 
attained  their  object  of  collecting  money  for  Sura,  and  its 
college  having  been  closed  seven  hundred  years  after  its  founda- 
tion, brought  to  an  end  the  spiritual  dominion  of  Babylonia 
over  the  Jewish  mind  and  scattered  the  seeds  of  Talmudic 
study  throughout  all  lands. 

The  college  of  Pumbeditha,  though  it  continued  to  exist  for 
some  period  after  that  of  Sura,  spreading  the  light  of  the 
Torah  among  all  the  exiled,  sank  from  its  preeminent  rank, 
gradually,  till  its  existence  came  to  an  end  (about  1040).  With 
it  was  extinguished  the  light  of  the  Gaonim.  From  that  time 
the  centre  of  religious  activity  for  the  Jews  was  in  Europe. 
The  Talmud  had  its  home  in  Spain,  whence  it  spread  to  other 
coimtries,  as  will  be  seen  in  the  coming  chapters. 

CHAPTER  IX. 

THE   VICTORY   OF   KARAISM   OVER   THE    SPIRITUAL   DOMINION   OF 

THE  TALMUD  AND  THE  MIND  OF  THE  JEWISH  NATION THE 

LAST  GAONIM  AT  SURA  AND  PUMBEDITHA THE    CENTRE    OF 

TALMUDIC  STUDY  TRANSFERRED  FROM  MESOPOTAMIA  TO 
SPAIN — THE  SCHOLARS  OF  KAIRUBAN — THE  PERIOD  OF  THE 
GREATEST  DIFFUSION  OF  TALMUDIC  STUDY. 

Though  Rabbinism  came  out  victorious  from  the  struggle 
with  Karaism,  it  can  not  be  denied  that  in  one  respect  the  latter 
triumphed.  The  unlimited  dominion  which  the  Talmudic 
spirit  of  the  colleges  of  Sura  and  Pimibeditha  had  at  that  time 
on  the  minds  of  the  nation  of  Israel  in  general  in  all  places  of 


SHERIRA,    HAI,    BEN    HOPHNI.  37 

their  abode — this  spiritual  dominion  waned  greatly.  The 
glory  of  these  colleges  irresistibly  declined,  in  spite  of  all  efforts 
to  the  contrary,  even  of  a  supreme  man  like  Saadiah  the  Gaon. 
The  spirit  of  investigation  and  free  thought  at  Bagdad  induced 
the  disciples,  to  whom  the  religious  teachings  of  their  master 
Saadiah  gave  the  example,  to  engage  in  the  study  of  philosophy, 
grammar  and  the  interpretations  of  the  text  of  the  Scripture,  and 
to  abandon  the  hard  and  exhausting  studies  of  Sura,  A  slight 
cause,  the  voyage  of  the  four  scholars  mentioned  above  to 
Europe,  sufficed  to  hasten  the  end  of  this  college,  which  did 
not  exist  long  after  the  death  of  R,  Saadiah  the  Gaon,  so  that 
it  was  closed  forever  after  centuries  of  its  existence. 

The  college  at  Pumbeditha  continued  some  time  longer;  it 
put  forth  its  last  efforts,  before  the  lights  of  its  Gaonim  and 
Exilarchs  were  extinguished,  before  the  glory  and  religious  and 
spiritual  pre-eminence  of  Babylon  departed  from  there  to 
honor  Spain ;  and  as  the  light  of  a  candle  blazes  up  before  it  is 
extinguished,  so  there  shone  on  the  Babylonian  horizon  three 
Gaonim,  Sherira  b.  Hanina,  Hai  his  son,  and  Samuel  b.  Hophni 
the  father-in-law  of  the  latter  (960-1038).  The  activity  of 
these  men  in  the  field  of  Talmudic  literature  persists  and  exer- 
cise their  influence  yet. 

R.  Sherira  placed  the  Talmudic  studies  too  much  above  all 
other  studies,  whereas  in  the  college  at  Sura,  in  accordance  with 
the  spirit  of  Saadiah  the  Gaon,  the  sciences  also  stood  in  the 
first  rank  of  studies  and  a  critical  spirit  reigned  in  studying 
Scripture  and  in  commenting  on  the  Talmud.  At  Pumbeditha 
the  Talmud  was  the  only  dish  offered  to  the  students,  the  only 
subject  of  the  curriculum.  R.  Sherira  was  the  first  who  fear- 
lessly taught  and  said:  "The  utterances  of  the  Gaonim  require 
no  demonstration ;  whoso  rebels  against  their  decisions,  rebels 
against  God  and  betrays  His  Torah."  His  book  "Megilath 
Stharim"  (Scroll  of  Mysteries),  which  was  undoubtedly  writ- 
ten in  this  autocratic  spirit,  is  lost.  But,  on  the  other  hand,  he 
has  bequeathed  to  us  a  fragment  which  enlightens  us  at  present, 
being  the  chief  basis  of  all  Jewish  literary  and  theological  his- 
tory. This  is  the  letter  he  sent  to  the  congregation  of  Kairuban, 
termed  "R.  Sherira's  Epistle,"  which  treats  of  the  history  of 
the  Talmud  and  of  the  Gaonim  and  is  the  key  to  the  otherwise 
mysterious  history  of  that  epoch.     From  this  letter  only  can 


38  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

we  take  the  essential  information  for  arranging  the  history 
from  the  close  of  the  Talmud  to  his  time.  Without  this  docu- 
ment many  and  important  periods,  from  the  time  of  the  Macca- 
bees to  those  of  the  Gaonim,  over  a  thousand  years,  would 
remain  to  us  obscure  and  imknown.  The  epistle  is  wonder- 
fully accurate  in  respect  to  chronology,  and  is  free  from  any 
bias.  Only  by  means  of  it,  and  of  other  compositions  of  this 
class,  as  the  Megilath  Taanith  (Scroll  of  Fasts),  Seder  01am 
(Order  of  the  World),  the  Sedar  Tanaim  and  Amoraim,  together 
with  the  remnants  of  information  of  R.  Nathan  bar  Izhak  the 
Babylonian  (956)  concerning  the  colleges  at  Sura  and  Pumbe- 
ditha,  and  the  methods  of  study  at  their  time,  can  the  modem 
scholar  compile  the  known  histories,  so  very  necessary  to  the 
imderstanding  of  the  Talmud  and  its  literature. 

R.  Hai,  his  son,  was  indeed  more  inclined  towards  the 
sciences  than  his  father.  He  was  proficient  in  Arabic  learning. 
Nor  was  he  averse  to  philosophic  studies.  He  opposed  himself 
with  all  his  might  against  speculations  about  the  hypothesis  of 
religion.  In  theological  and  Talmudical  knowledge,  R.  Hai 
surpassed  all  his  colleagues  and  stood  alone  in  his  age.  From 
Northern  Africa  and  Spain,  whither  sparks  of  Talmudic  literary 
activity  had  just  penetrated  and  kindled,  came  to  him  questions 
in  great  number.  He  replied  to  them  in  Arabic  or  in  Hebrew ; 
the  spirit  of  reconciliation  between  philosophy  and  theology  is 
in  all  his  answers.  His  list  of  Hebrew  roots,  commentaries  on 
the  Mishna,  and  compositions  examining  Scriptures  exist 
mostly  no  longer,  and  only  fragments  of  Talmudic  Jurisprud- 
ence, as  laws  of  buying  and  selling,  of  oaths,  etc.,  which  he 
attempted  to  methodize  in  verse  are  preserved.  So  also  is 
ascribed  to  him  a  didactic  poem  entitled  "Musar  Haschel" 
(Morality  of  Reason)  very  excellent  in  its  thoughts,  matter,  and 
intention  (purpose,  aim,  conception),  albeit  we  can  not  extole 
the  style  or  the  poetic  form.  At  all  events  this  R.  Hai,  the  last 
of  the  Gaonim  is  the  first  of  all  Talmudic  scholars  even  at  this 
day,  and  his  words  are  oracular  for  all  commentators  and  all 
those  who  decide  Halakhas  according  to  the  Talmud. 

His  father-in-law,  Samuel  b.  Hophni,  held  of  the  same 
opinions  as  he,  but  was  more  free  in  his  criticism  of  the  Scrip- 
tures than  all  his  colleagues.  Of  his  many  works  only  frag- 
ments  (which  originally  written  in  Arabic,  we  have  in  the 


THE   SAGES   OF   KAIRUBAN.  39 

Hebrew  garb)  of  his  commentaries  to  the  Scriptures  remain. 
But  his  compositions  about  Halakhas  and  essentials  of  rehgion 
are  all  lost,  and  only  their  names  survive.  The  fundamental 
principle  of  this  thinker  was:  "Things  opposed  to  human 
common  sense  should  not  be  admitted."  He  combated  vio- 
lently also  the  Karaites  and  was  attacked  desperately,  as  they 
mocked  and  scoffed  at  him  and  even  wrote  satiric  Hebrew 
poems  about  him. 

Those  three  were  the  last  of  those  remaining  at  these  col- 
leges, and  at  their  death  the  sources  of  wisdom  in  Babylonia 
were  stopped  off.  After  the  decease  of  ben  Hophni  (about 
1034)  the  college  at  Sura  was  abolished,  and  two  years  after 
the  death  of  R.  Hai  (1640)  the  college  of  Pumbeditha  was 
closed.  The  wisdom  of  Israel  removed  to  North  Africa  (Kairu- 
ban)  and  Spain  and  bore  fair  fruit  there. 

The  city  Kairuban  had  a  great  reputation.  In  an  antique 
commentary,  imputed  to  a  disciple  of  R.  Saadiah  the  Gaon,  this 
city  is  mentioned  as  "the  city  of  great  sages."  As  is  known, 
one  of  the  four  above-mentioned  rabbis,  R.  Hushiel,  who  with 
his  colleagues  had  been  voyaging  to  collect  money  for  the  col- 
lege of  Sura,  was  cast  thither.  All  four  introduced  mental 
activity  in  all  places  they  visited.  R,  Hananel,  the  son  of  R. 
Hushiel,  succeeded  to  his  position  (in  1050)  and  surpassed  his 
father  in  wisdom  and  in  energy.  He  bequeathed  to  us  frag- 
ments of  commentaries  on  Scriptures  and  the  Talmud,  which 
were  of  great  help  to  the  study  in  the  conditions  at  that  time, 
when  Tahnudic  activity  was  diffused  among  Jews.  He  and 
his  contemporary,  Nisim  b.  Jacob,  who  also  resided  in  Kairuban, 
renewed  the  youth  of  the  Palestinian  Talmud,  which  had  been 
neglected.  Especially  did  the  latter  contribute  to  bring  about 
this.  He  also  issued  the  book  "Maphteah"  (Key)  for  several 
tracts  of  the  Babylonian  Talmud  and  in  it  he  cast  light  on  many 
difficult  passages  in  the  Palestinian  Talmud  by  compaiing  the 
two  Talmuds. 

R.  Hananel  also  wrote  a  commentary  on  the  Talmud,  which 
was  published  in  separate  parts.  Therein  he  explains  the  sub- 
ject and  meaning  of  the  words  in  Hebrew,  and  draws  a  parallel 
between  the  Babylonian  and  Palestinian  Talmud.  He  wrote 
also  a  book  containing  abstracts  arranged  in  Talmudic  order  of 
the  Halakhas,  concerning  service  and  pecuniary  matters. 


40  THE   HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

A  careful  examination  of  the  books  of  the  two  men  will  show 
that  they  were  in  unison  with  their  opinions  with  Saadiah  the 
Gaon,  and  diffused  his  teaching  and  ideas  among  the  Jews. 
Friendship  existed  between  these  two  men  and  Hai  and  the 
learned  men  of  Spain,  as  is  seen  from  their  large  correspondence. 
There  is  also  a  third  one  of  the  sages  of  Kairuban,  who  contrib- 
uted to  the  study  of  the  Talmud,  he  is  Hephetz  b.  Jatzbiah, 
held  in  great  esteem  by  his  contemporaries,  and  upon  whom  all 
titles  of  honor  that  great  men  receive  were  bestowed.  Of  his 
works  nothing  is  known  except  the  name  "Sepher  Hephetz" 
(the  book  of  Hephetz  or  Desirable  book)  which  he  wrote  as  a 
commentary  to  the  "books  of  duties." 

The  sages  of  Kairuban  witnessed  the  end  of  the  two  colleges 
and  the  extinction  of  the  Gaonim,  but  also  the  flourishing  of 
Jewish  literature  in  Spain,  whither  it  had  been  spread  from 
Northern  Africa.  After  the  decease  of  these  learned  men  the 
glory  of  Kairuban  became  also  extinct,  and  Jewish  intellectual 
activity  left  the  East  and  emigrated  to  the  West. 

An  examination  of  the  literary  period  after  the  death  of  the 
Gaonim  shows  that  it  surpassed  by  far  the  preceding  period. 
Whereas,  in  the  time  of  the  Exilarchs  and  the  Gaonim,  only  the 
Talmud  had  been  the  subject  chiefly  studied  and  only  to  it  had 
contributions  been  made  which  helped  to  perpetuate  the  spirit 
of  Judaism.  Now,  when  Jewish  learning  removed  to  Spain  and 
Southern  France,  it  blossomed  and  became  split  into  many 
branches,  to  each  of  which  many  good  books  were  contributed. 
On  the  study  of  the  Scriptures  shone  forth  the  light  of  free 
criticism ;  the  studies  of  Masorah  reached  perfection ;  grammar 
and  linguistic  researches  came  to  the  front  rank;  the  Talmud 
and  Midrash,  long  ago  concluded,  were  subjected  to  the  analysis 
of  commentaries  and  abridged  into  systematic  abstracts.  The 
basis  of  the  philosophic  conception  of  the  Jewish  faith  was  laid ; 
and  religious  and  ritual  poems  succeeded,  when  treated  by  the 
sublimely  inspired  Spanish  poets.  A  broader  and  deeper  com- 
prehension of  the  Talmud  was  also  the  result  of  the  intellectual 
awakening.  It  is  true  that  the  cause  of  this  intellectual  activity 
were  the  Arabs,  while  the  polemics  with  the  Karaites  enhanced 
it,  and  made  it  penetrate  through  the  wall  of  Judaism ;  but, 
taken  up  by  the  Jews,  it  made  progress  and  continued  to  do  so 
even  when  both  Arabs  and  Karaites  had  abandoned  knowledge 


THE   GOLDEN   AGE   OF  JEWISH   LEARNING.        41 

altogether.  This  spiritual  awakening  caused  even  the  re- 
motest branch  of  Israelite  stock,  from  which  almost  all  life  had 
fled,  to  bloom  up  and  to  awake  to  new  life.  Even  the  small 
community  of  Samaritans,  whose  existence  had  been  quite  for- 
gotten, came  to  life  and  took  part  in  the  Jewish  culture.  The 
book  of  "Joshua"  of  the  Samaritans,  the  "Reminiscences  of 
Abul-Pathah"  (a  historical  treatise  of  these  events),  the  Samari- 
tan version  of  the  Pentateuch,  and  the  Arabic  version  of  the 
Scriptures  by  Abu-Laid  appeared  at  this  time.  Also  fragments 
of  ritual  composition  there  are  a  few  left  of  many,  but  their 
value  is  small  and  they  are  not  as  ancient  as  had  been  at  first- 
thought.  On  the  new  Jewish  literature  the  Samaritan  sect 
never  made  any  impression;  but  the  intellectual  movement 
of  the  Jews  involved  also  the  remnant  of  the  Samaritans  and 
aroused  it  from  its  slumber.  But  in  the  time  of  the  Gaonim, 
when  the  bearers  of  the  banner  of  the  Talmud  ranked  them- 
selves to  battle  with  the  Karaites,  they  did  not  condescend  to 
notice  the  Samaritans. 

When  we  say  that  this  period  surpassed  the  former,  we  are 
far  from  disparaging  the  great  Gaonim,  and  from  thinking 
them  men  inferior  to  their  successors.  In  truth,  these  men 
were  only  dwarfs  who  stood  on  the  shoulders  of  giants  for  had 
they  not  stood  on  the  shoulders  of  those  giants  they  could  not 
have  investigated  deeply  all  those  subjects  to  which  in  time  of 
the  Gaonim  no  attention  had  been  paid.  For,  in  spite  of  the 
precept  of  Sherira,  above  mentioned,  "that  the  utterances  of  the 
Gaonim  require  no  demonstration,"  they  did  not  cease  to  give 
proofs,  reasons,  and  to  advance  arguments  in  their  replies  to 
questioners.  Only  by  means  of  thorough  and  deep  research 
in  the  Talmud,  by  comparing  and  by  reasoning,  did  the  Gaonim 
bring  the  ideas  of  their  time  in  accordance  with  the  ancient 
Halakhas,  thus  increasing  the  practical  importance  of  tradition 
and  giving  to  the  Torah  a  living  interest.  The  Spanish  and 
French  scholars  took  up  their  work  and  carried  it  on,  extending 
it  to  all  branches  of  science.  Then  literature,  therefore,  at- 
tained its  highest  development,  so  that  this  period  has  been 
termed  the  "golden  age  of  Jewish  learning."  The  replies  of 
the  Gaonim  only  were  the  basis  of  their  superstructure,  reared 
when  intellectual  activity  had  removed  from  the  banks  of  the 
Euphrates  to  the  banks  of  the  Tagus  and  the  Rhine. 


42  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

Their  explanations  of  Halakha  were  of  two  kinds;  either 
those  induced  by  the  bare  love  of  knowledge,  or  answers  which 
had  to  be  given  to  question  arising  from  practical  exigencies, 
which  occasioned  the  analysis  of  the  Halakhas  and  the  investi- 
gation whether  the  spirit  of  the  Halakhas  held  good  only  at 
their  time  or  applied  to  other  times  also. 

Five  compilations  of  this  kind,  termed  "Replies  of  the 
Gaonim,"  exist  in  the  Jewish  literature,  which  have  been  com- 
piled from  the  beginning  of  the  seventh  to  the  eleventh  cen- 
turies. The  first  of  the  authors  of  those  replies  was  the  Gaon 
Hananai  and  the  last  Hai  the  Gaon.  This  literature  of  the 
Gaonim's  replies  is  a  large  field  for  scientific  researches  in 
literary  history  in  general,  of  historic  events,  and  of  intellectual 
progress.  In  all  their  replies  and  decisions  we  see  that  their  aim 
is  knowledge,  not  authoritativeness  as  is  usual  in  the  case  of 
priests  or  even  of  Gaonim.  For  their  decision  they  gave  rea- 
sons and  advanced  arguments,  and  also  forbade  no  learned  or 
ingenious  man  to  object  to  them. 

This  spirit  of  employing  reason  foimd  in  this  literature  of 
Replies  still  continues.  By  it  the  present  is  linked  with  the 
past  and  the  future  with  the  present.  These  replies  touch 
almost  all  branches  of  thought  as  well  as  all  practical  questions, 
viz. :  the  value  of  the  Agada  in  Talmudic  literature ;  the  value 
of  the  studies  of  the  mysteries ;  opinions  on  philosophy,  on  the 
rights  due  to  sciences,  answers  to  questions  about  chronology 
and  calculations  of  time.  History,  geography,  and  mathemat- 
ics in  some  of  their  replies  are  also  discussed.  There  are  also 
answers  with  reasons  to  questions  about  Laws  of  Marriage, 
Gentiles,  Proselytes,  Testaments,  Mourning,  Sermons,  Divorce. 
They  also  explain  to  those  who  question  them  different  pas- 
sages in  Mishna  and  Talmud — questions  even  without  any 
practical  aim — only  to  increase  and  advance  the  Torah  by  the 
discussions  made  in  the  house  of  learning. 


SAMUEL   HANAGID   AND   HIS   CONTEMPORARIES.  43 
CHAPTER  X. 

THE  SPANISH   WRITERS.      A  BRIEF  SURVEY  OF  THEIR  WRITINGS 
RELATING  TO  THE  TALMUD, 

Although  the  aim  of  this,  our  work,  is  to  give  a  history  of  the 
Taknud  alone,  not  of  the  whole  Jewish  literature  of  that  period 
(to  which  is  devoted  a  work  by  Dr.  Karpeles  and  others) ,  we 
can  not,  however,  skip  over  the  writers  of  Spain  and  France 
of  that  time,  who  extended  the  literature  according  to  the 
fundamental  principles  of  the  Talmud,  and  shine  in  history, 
the  admiration  of  succeeding  generations.  We  will  not,  how- 
ever, speak  at  length  of  their  work  or  examine  it  minutely,  but 
merely  mention  the  names ;  only  those  whose  main  work  was 
elevated  to  Talmudic  subjects  we  except  from  this  rule  of 
brevity,  and  shall  speak  about  their  work  as  far  as  is  neces- 
sary for  the  purpose  of  this  work. 

The  first  of  the  distinguished  men  of  Spain,  whom  the 
Babylonians  honored  with  the  title  of  "  Resh  Kalah"  (synony- 
mous with  "Head  of  College"),  was  R.  Hisdai  b.  Itzhak  Ebn 
Spurt  (915-970),  who  was  counsellor  and  physician  to  the 
Caliph  Abdul  Rahman  III.,  and  he  was  the  one  who  helped  his 
co-religionists  to  rise  from  their  degradation.  Besides  his  dili- 
gence in  other  sciences,  as  the  translation  of  the  botanical  books 
of  Disscroridus,  the  Greek,  for  his  sovereign,  the  Caliph,  he  car- 
ried on  a  correspondence  with  the  Gaonim  of  the  colleges  of 
Sura  and  Pumbeditha,  and  through  them  succeeded  in  bringing 
scholars  and  books  to  his  own  country,  and  to  found  a  college  for 
Talmudical  studies.  He  wrote  the  well  known  letter  to  the 
king  of  the  Chosars,  in  which  his  love  for  his  co-religionists  and 
his  zeal  for  their  welfare  are  manifested.  Menahem  b .  S'ruk  and 
Dims  b.  Labrat,  the  grammarians  known  through  their  polem- 
ics about  the  roots  and  the  grammar  of  the  Hebrew  language, 
were  invited  by  R.  Hisdai  to  come  to  popularize  the  study  of 
Hebrew,  Jehud  b.  David  Chilveg,  Isaac  b.  Kapron  and  Isaac 
Giktalia  were  the  disciples  of  Menahem,  and  Jehudah  b.  Shes- 
heth  was  the  disciple  of  Dun.  These  men  by  their  contro- 
versies about  the  grammar  carried  it  further  and  perfected  the 
study.    Jonah  Ebn  Ganah  (1000- 1050)  surpassed  even  those, 


44  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

for  he  composed  seven  books  about  grammar  in  Arabic  and 
Hebrew  which  are  preserved  to  the  present  time. 

Samuel  Hanagid  (and  the  Nasi  Ebn  Nagdilah,  993-1055) 
was  a  patron  of  Jewish  learning  in  Spain,  as  Ebn  Spurt  had 
been  before  him.  He  was  the  author  of  twenty- two  books, 
but  not  even  one  of  them  survives  completely.  Even  from 
his  great  book  "Introduction  to  the  Talmud"  only  a  small 
portion  is  preserved,  but  this  testifies  to  the  greatness  of  his 
knowledge  and  the  acuteness  of  his  intellect.  With  all  his  ad- 
herence to  the  traditions  and  to  the  cardinal  principles  of  the 
Talmud,  he  did  not  exclude  the  use  of  common  sense  and 
himian  judgment.  He  says:  "Every  comment  in  the  Tal- 
mud on  passages  of  Scriptures  other  than  commandments  we 
have  to  admit  only  so  far  as  seems  to  be  rational,  but  as  for 
the  rest,  it  is  not  authoritative."  From  this  we  see  that  in  his 
ideas  about  the  Hagadah  of  the  Talmud,  he  went  a  step  in  ad- 
vance of  the  Gaonim,  Saadiah,  and  Hai.  His  poems  and  pray- 
ers in  his  works  "  Ben  Thilim"  and  "  Ben  Mishle  "  are  based  on 
the  tradition  of  the  Talmud.  But  of  his  "  Ben  Koheleth  "  noth- 
ing was  preserved  by  us.  He  was  held  in  great  esteem  by  the 
contemporary  learned  men.  Many  wrote  poems  in  his  praise, 
among  them  is  the  "  Orphan"  (Jethoma),  by  R.  Joseph  b.  His- 
dai.  The  poets  at  that  time  used  to  say,  ' '  In  the  days  of  R. 
Hisdai,  the  Nasi,  they  began  to  twitter  (in  poetry)  and  in  the 
days  of  Samuel  the  Nagid,  they  lifted  their  voice."  (See  App. 
No.- II.) 

He  was  succeeded  by  the  lofty  poet  Solomon  b.  Gabirol, 
1012-1070.  (We  need  not  here  dwell  on  his  biography  and 
work,  as  Messrs.  Senor  Sachs  and  Salomon  Munk  wrote  whole 
books  about  him.)  In  his  time,  Jekuthiel  Ebn  Hassau,  who  was 
high  in  the  court  of  King  Jahia  Ibu  Mundhir  at  Saragossa,  was 
also  a  patron  of  all  Jewish  learning,  especially  of  ben  Gabirol. 
The  latter' s  poem,  "Kether  Malchuth"  (Crown  of  Royalty), 
was  very  favorably  received  by  all  who  bore  the  banners  of  the 
Talmudic  and  Kabbaldic  studies,  and  also  by  Christian  priests, 
so  that  it  was  translated  into  Latin  by  the  priest  Dominicus 
Gondizallo  (11 50)  and  also  into  Hebrew  by  him,  with  the 
assistance  of  Johannis  Abudalu  (an  apostate  Jew).  The  fact 
that  his  name  "Ebn  Gabirol"  was  altered  to  Abizatrol  or 
Abizabran  has  been  illuminated  by  Salomon  Munk. 


THE   ISAACS,   THE   SAGES   OF  THAT  DAY.         45 

Bahayi  b.  Joseph  Ebn  Pekira,  Judge  in  Saragossa,  his  con- 
temporary, is  the  author  of  the  wonderful  book  "The  Duty  of 
Hearts"  (Chobath  Halbaboth)  in  Arabic,  which  has  been 
translated  by  Samuel  Ebn  Tabun  into  Hebrew,  and  accepted 
as  a  guide  in  life  by  Israel  everywhere  they  were  found,  (It 
has  been  translated  also  into  German  by  Herr  Baumgarten  of 
Vienna.)  This  teacher  Behayi  absorbed  himself  wholly  in  the 
Talmud  and  gave  it  the  preference  to  Arabic  or  Grecian  phi- 
losophy. His  object  in  this,  his  wonderful  work,  is  the  follow- 
ing: to  conciliate  morals  with  commandments  and  the  duties 
of  the  heart  with  those  of  the  other  members  of  the  body.  The 
duty  of  the  heart  is  purity  of  thought,  that  of  the  other  mem- 
bers to  carry  out  the  commandments.     (See  App.  No.  12.) 

Five  sages  bearing  the  name  Isaac  lived  at  that  time,  viz. : 
I.  Isaac  b.  Reuben  of  Barcelona  (1043),  great  in  knowledge  of 
the  Talmud  and  an  expert  at  translating.  He  translated  the 
decisions  of  R.  Hai  Gaon,  about  buying  and  selling,  from  Arabic 
to  Hebrew.  2.  Isaac  b.  Jehudah  Ebn  Giath  (1089),  who  com- 
posed prayers  and  ritual  poems  considered  remarkable  at  that 
time.  3.  Isaac  b.  Moses  Sochni,  who  emigrated  from  Spain  to 
the  East,  where  he  was  qualified  as  Gaon  and  became  the  suc- 
cessor of  R.  Hai.  Only  his  fame  survives,  his  writings,  however, 
are  all  lost.  4.  Isaac  b.  Baruch  Abudaly  (1035-1094),  who  was 
a  sage  and  astrologer  to  Caliph  Al  Mahmed.  The  latter  made 
him  Nasi  over  the  Israelite  communities  in  his  domain,  Seville. 
He  wrote  a  commentary  to  difficult  Halakhas  in  his  book 
"  Kupath  Haruchim"  (Book  of  Spices),  which,  however,  he  did 
not  complete.  5.  The  greatest  of  all,  Isaac  b.  Jacob  Alphassi 
(1013-1103),  who  came  from  North  Africa  to  Lucina  (Alisa) 
and  there  foimded  a  college  for  the  study  of  the  Talmud, 
in  which  he  surpassed  all  his  colleagues  in  Spain.  Alphassi 
was  the  first  to  abridge  the  Talmud,  compiling  only  the  neces- 
sary Halakhas ,  transcribed  textually .  Sometimes  he  appended 
his  opinions,  and  by  this  work  is  immortalized  among  all  Israel 
in  exile.  In  times  of  misfortune,  when  it  was  difficult  to  pro- 
cure the  Talmud,  students  occupied  themselves  with  his  work, 
called  after  him ' '  Alphassi, ' '  to  which  they  wrote  many  commen- 
taries. His  decisions,  called  "Questions  and  Replies  of  Hariph," 
have  been  accepted  for  all  times.  It  is  true  that  he  wrote  in 
Arabic  and  that  it  was  translated  into  Hebrew.    He  also  wrote 


46  THE   HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

three  great  Halakhas  with  an  extensive  commentary  in  Arabic, 
which  was  also  translated  into  Hebrew,  as  well  as  320  of  his 
decisions  above  mentioned.  (One  was  recently  published  with 
a  new  translation  from  the  Arabic.) 

The  spirit  of  deep  research,  distinguishing  this  Spanish 
period,  is  also  found  in  his  works.  The  most  difficult  subjects 
in  the  Talmud  and  all  intricate  questions  he  explains  easily. 
He  strove  in  his  books  to  smooth  the  contradictions  between 
the  Torah  and  Wisdom,  reconciling  them.  His  decisions  ex- 
tend over  all  provinces  of  the  Torah  in  all  questions  concerning 
law  and  judgment ;  to  all  laws,  both  written  and  traditional 
laws,  his  reasons,  based  upon  sound  logic,  were  stated  in  a  con- 
cise and  ingenious  manner.  In  the  same  way,  he  also  explains 
the  Hagada,  to  bring  it  in  conformity  with  reason.  He,  Al- 
phassi,  did  not  devote  himself  to  theological  philosophy  and 
criticism  of  the  Scriptures,  like  his  contemporaries,  but  to 
Talmudical  studies,  thus  giving  an  example  to  those  thinkers 
not  to  presume  to  give  their  religion  a  philosophic  garb.  At 
his  death,  all  Jewish  scholars,  wheresoever  found,  lamented 
him.  R.  Jehudah  Halevi,  whose  muse  began  then  to  shine, 
mourned  for  him  thus : 

Mountains  on  the  day  of  Sinai  for  thee  quaked, 

For  angels  of  the  Lord  met  thee 

And  inscribed  the  Torah  on  the  tablets  of  thy  heart. 

The  glorious  crown  was  placed  around  thee. 

The  wise  had  not  power  to  stand 

If  they  did  not  from  thee  wisdom  beg. 

Moses  b.  Samuel  Ebn  Giktali  and  Jehudah  Ebn  Bilan  (1070) 
were  free  thinkers  in  his  age  and  his  opponents,  but  many  of 
those  scholars  who  explained  the  Talmud  by  simple  logic  were 
his  disciples.  Among  these  was  also  Isaac  b.  Baruch  Albalia, 
mentioned  above.  The  greatest  of  his  disciples,  however,  was 
Joseph  Ebn  Migash  b.  Mair  (1076-1141),  who  succeeded  to  his 
position  in  his  college  and  inherited  his  greatness  in  Talmudic 
wisdom.  His  new  contributions  to  Talmudic  study,  called  by 
him  "Mcgilath  Setharim"  (The  Revelation  of  Hidden  Scrolls) 
and  the  queries  and  answers  collected  into  one  book  under  the 
title  of  "Questions  and  Replies  of  Ebn  Migash,"  bear  testi- 
mony to  his  ingenuity,  loftiness  of  spirit  and  gentleness.  (These 
books  were  reprinted  the  second  time  by  us  in  1870,  in  Warsaw, 


THE   ISAACS,   THE   SAGES  OF  THAT   DAY.         47 

with  our  preface  and  some  remarks,  but  even  this  edition  is 
ahready  nearly  out  and  scattered.)  Most  of  his  answers  and 
questions  were  written  in  Arabic  and  translated  later  into 
Hebrew ;  only  his  explanations  were  written  in  Hebrew  and  in 
the  Talmudic  idiom.  Particularly  wondrous  is  his  manner  of 
examining  all  sides  of  a  subject,  so  that  not  one  possibility  re- 
mains imconsidered. 

As  Ebn  Migash  was  the  greatest  Rabbi  after  the  death  of 
his  master,  Alphassi,  questions  were  addressed  to  him  from  all 
sides,  and  he,  always  following  his  disposition,  answered  them 
according  to  his  inclinations,  leniently.  Let  us  cite  one  of  his 
answers  as  an  example: 

A  question  was  addressed  to  him  by  one  who  had  vowed  to 
abstain  from  meat  and  wine  till  he  shall  have  reached  the  Holy 
Land,  and  found  the  project  too  difficult  to  carry  out,  but  could 
find  no  ground  for  repenting.  Ebn  Migash  foimd  for  him  a 
groimd  for  repentance,  that,  while  he  vowed  he  undoubtedly 
was  ignorant  of  a  saying  in  the  Talmud :  Whoever  afflicts  him- 
self is  guilty  against  a  life. 

Many  were  the  disciples  who  trod  in  Ebn  Migash's  foot- 
steps and  carried  on  their  activity  in  his  spirit.  Among  these 
was  his  son  who  succeeded  him  also  in  his  college.  Of  his  con- 
temporaries, who  distinguished  themselves  as  philosophers  or 
poets,  it  is  proper  to  mention  Rabbi  Joseph  Ebn  Zadok  of 
Cordova  (1070-1149),  author  of  "01am  Katan"  (Microcosm), 
a  religious  philosophy  in  which  he  is  of  the  opinion  (see  App. 
No.  11)  that  man  must  know  himself  in  order  to  attain  to  the 
knowledge  of  Divinity.  The  rabbi  who  was  his  predecessor 
at  Cordova,  Joseph  b.  Jacob  Ebn  Sahl  (1103),  was  a  poet  and 
ritual  author.  (See  App.  No.  12.)  In  the  north  of  Spain  were 
also  then  foimd  scholars  and  poets;  Abraham  b.  Hyya,  a 
minister  in  a  Mahometan  ruler's  court,  was  a  great  astronomer 
and  mathematician,  who  wrote  four  books  on  astronomy,  three 
of  which  were  printed,  viz. :  "  The  Form  of  the  Earth  "  (T'urath 
Hoaretz),  "The  Book  of  Leap-Years"  (Sepher  Haibur),  of  the 
third,  only  the  latter  part,  treating  of  mathematics,  optics,  and 
astronomy  was  printed.  Next  to  him  is  Jehudah  b.  Barzilar, 
author  of  the  book  "  Hoetim"  (The  Times). 

We  have  reached  to  the  three  great  poets,  who  enjoy  a 
world-wide  renown,  Moses  b.  Ezra,  Abraham  b.  Meir  Ebn  Ezra, 


48  THE   HISTORY  OP  THE   TALMUD. 

and  Jehudah  Halevi,  all  of  whom  were  bearers  of  the  banner  of 
the  Talmud,  and  contributed  to  diiTusing  its  ideas  and  morals 
among  the  nation.  We  think  it,  however,  superfluous  to  ex- 
patiate on  them,  as  they  are  well-known  to  every  cultured  per- 
son, and,  as  many  books  have  been  written  about  them  at  dif- 
ferent epochs,  we  cannot  refrain,  however,  from  giving  briefly 
their  biographies,  as  far  as  they  bear  on  no  subject  of  this  work. 

The  dates  of  the  birth  and  death  of  the  first  of  these,  Moses 
b.  Ezra,  are  unknown  to  us :  it  is  known  only  to  us  that  he  lived 
later  than  ben  Gabirol.  His  opinions  in  his  poems  and  other 
works  vacillate.  He  composed  ritual  poems  and  lamenta- 
tions, which  have  a  place  in  the  prayer-books  of  the  Spanish 
Jews;  also  the  "Arugath  Habossem"  (Bed  of  Spices),  on 
theological  philosophy,  and  the  "Sepher  Hassichoth  V'hazi- 
chronoth"  (Book  of  Discourses  and  Reminiscences),  about  the 
poems  of  ben  Gabirol  and  his  character. 

The  second,  Abraham  Ebn  Ezra,  was  one  of  the  most  won- 
derful phenomena  of  his  age.  His  commentaries  on  the  Bible, 
his  poems  and  ritual  poems,  are  known  to  everyone;  but  the 
contemporary  scholars  found  it  impossible  to  know  his  real 
opinions,  nor  can  modem  scholars  fathom  them. 

The  third,  Jehudah  Halevi,  the  father  of  poets,  before  whom 
none  lived  equal  to  him,  and  who  knows  whether  after  him  any 
one  like  him  will  live.  Besides  inspiring  with  a  very  exalted 
national  spirit  every  reader  of  his  poems  and  lamentations,  he 
powerfully  defended  the  Talmud  in  his  book  the  "Chosar," 
where  the  eloquent  defender  of  the  Talmud  is  represented  by 
the  disputant  arguing  with  the  King  of  the  Chosars,  and  which 
to  the  present  time  is  a  shining  example  of  compositions  of  this 
kind.  (A  lengthy  account  the  reader  can  find  in  the  works  of 
Karpeles.) 

After  them  is  distinguished  Abraham  b.  David  Halevi  (Ebn 
Daud)  who  died  as  a  martyr  (1180).  He  defended  the  Tal- 
mud in  his  book  "Emuna  Rama"  (Exalted  Faith)  and  in  his 
great  work  "Hakabala"  (The  Tradition),  in  which  he  power- 
fully argues  against  all  the  deniers  of  tradition,  and  shows 
them  in  the  wrong;  supporting  his  logical  arguments  by  his- 
torical facts,  proving  the  continuance  of  tradition  from  the 
time  of  Moses  to  that  time.  In  his  polemics  against  the  Kara- 
ites, he  is  so  irritated  that  he  styles  them  "dumb  dogs." 


JEHUDAH   HALEVI,   ABRAHAM   B.  DAVID.  49 

With  Moses  b.  Maiman,  the  Spaniard,  called  by  all  "Mai- 
monides"  or  "Rambam"  (i  135-1204),  the  Spanish  period 
concludes.  With  him  died  the  mental  activity  in  Spain,  after 
having  flourished  there  for  three  centuries.  About  this  great 
man  we  have  nothing  to  add  to  what  the  historians  who  have 
preceded  us  have  written  about  his  life,  and  disputed  about  his 
opinions.  (The  reader  desiring  minute  information  is  referred 
to  the  Life  of  the  Rambam,  "Taldoth  Horambam,"  by  I.  H. 
Weiss,  and  also  Karpeles'  work.)  But  we  do  not  think  it 
superfluous  to  remark  on  two  points,  viz.:  i.  That  the  opin- 
ions of  Maimonides  are  found  to  differ  in  the  three  different 
periods  of  his  life :  thus,  in  his  commentary  on  the  Mishnayoth, 
they  are  not  the  same  as  in  his  work  "  Yad  Hachazaka,"  nor 
are  they  similar  to  that  of  his  last  work,  "More  Nebuchim," 
which  he  wrote  in  the  evening  of  his  life.  For  in  all  of  them  we 
see  a  development  of  his  ideas  according  to  the  increase  of  his 
studies  and  knowledge ;  it  is  not  true  as  some  affirm  that  there 
is  no  change  in  his  opinions.  We  have  made  it  evident,  long 
ago,  in  our  book  "  Phylacterien-Ritus,"  that  his  decisions  in 
his  "Yad  Hachazaka"  or  "Mishna  Torah,"  do  not  accord 
with  those  in  his  commentary  on  the  Mishnayoth ;  and,  it  is 
needless  to  say,  that  his  statements  in  the  "  More"  are  at  vari- 
ance with  things  said  in  all  his  former  works.  And  in  truth, 
this  is  the  case  with  all  great  thinkers,  that  they  can  not  re- 
main at  a  stand  still  from  their  youth  to  their  old  age,  and  to 
this  we  may  apply  [Job,  xxxii.  7].  "Multitude  of  years  shall 
make  wisdom  known." 

2,  That  Maimonides  has  omitted  all  references  in  the 
Talmud  which  treats  of  witchcraft,  demons,  interpretation  of 
dreams,  etc.,  not  only  because  they  were  considered  by  him  as 
vain  superstitions  and  follies,  for  this  reason  alone  he  would 
not  have  ventured  to  omit  them,  in  spite  of  the  Talmud,  for  he 
left  all  that  is  foimd  in  the  Talmud  of  Halakhas  and  moral 
Hagadas,  even  with  which  he  himself  could  not  agree ;  but  his 
motive  was,  that,  in  his  opinion,  they  had  originally  not  been 
found  in  the  Talmud,  and  that  only  the  later  men  inserted 
them,  according  to  their  own  ideas,  for  whatever  purpose  it 
might  have  been.  (I.  H.  Weiss  has  insinuated  this  long  ago, 
and  it  seems  that  the  probability  tends  that  way.) 

So  also,  about  the  apology  advanced  by  many  for  the  words 


50  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

of  Maimonides  at  the  head  of  his  work  "Mishna  Torah,"  that 
he  had  chosen  this  title,  because  if  a  man  first  read  the  Penta- 
teuch, and  then  this  work,  he  will  know  the  entire  Oral  Law, 
and  need  read  no  intermediate  book— that  by  these  words  he 
did  not  mean  that  his  work  should  be  a  substitute  for  the 
Talmud,  etc.,  etc. ;  we  do  not  think  this  apology  needful,  even 
if  he  meant  this.  For  as  Maimonides  had  observed  that  much 
had  been  superadded  to  the  Talmud,  also  things  opposed  to 
his  general  opinions — no  wonder  if  he  wished  to  prevent  those 
who  could  not  distinguish  between  the  good  and  the  evil,  from 
reading  the  spurious  passages,  to  which  they  would  attach  as 
great  importance  as  to  the  Talmud  itself.  After  he  had  sifted 
it,  and  arranged  all  that  is  found  in  that  sea,  the  Talmud,  in 
fourteen  volumes,  of  his  "  Mishna  Torah,"  there  is  no  pre-emp- 
tion or  oddity  in  these  words,  whereby  he  merely  sought  the 
real  good  of  the  students. 

To  enumerate  in  detail  all  his  books,  writings,  epistles, 
polemics  and  apologies,  we  think  superfluous  here ;  as  all  bio- 
graphical and  critical  facts  have  already  been  given  in  detail  in 
the  above-mentioned  works.  We  will  only  remark,  that  after 
all  the  great  things  which  Maimonides  had  done  and  accom- 
plished, he  did  not  attain  his  object.  As  the  study  of  the 
Talmud  did  not  cease  in  any  of  the  colleges,  and,  on  the  con- 
trary, they  who  desired  to  criticize  Maimonides,  brought  the 
rabbis  to  study  yet  more  profoimdly  and  attentively  the  Tal- 
mud, and  to  add  new  commentaries,  decisions  of  Halakhas,  etc., 
etc. 

CHAPTER  XI. 

THE   SCHOLARS   OF   GERMANY   AND   OF   NORTHERN   FRANCE,   AND 
WHAT  THEY  CONTRIBUTED  TO  THE  STUDIES  OF  THE  TALMUD. 

At  the  time,  when  Talmudic  study  flourished  in  Spain,  and 
made  progress,  and  diffused  itself  in  all  comers  of  the  earth, 
shone  "the  luminary  of  the  exile"  in  Germany,  who  con- 
structed a  strong  fortress  around  the  Talmud,  in  his  great 
wisdom— which  was  accepted  in  all  places  of  the  exiled  as 
though  canonical,  and  which  not  only  contributed  to  strengthen 
the  Talmud,  but  also  to  prevent  all  its  adherents  from  perishing. 

Like  Rabban  Johanan  b.  Zakkai  formerly,  when  he  saw  that 


GERSHON,  "THE   LUMINARY  OF  THE   EXILE."     51 

the  end  of  Jewish  civic  independence  approached,  founded  by 
his  wisdom  a  Jewish  spiritual  kingdom,  which  nothing  could 
ruin,  and  by  saving  from  the  jaws  of  that  lion,  Vespasian, 
Yanmia  and  its  sages,  saved  the  existence  of  the  Jewish  people 
itself;  so  did  Gershon  b.  Jehudah  who  came  from  Carraibe 
to  Mayence,  where  his  great  teacher  Jehudah  b.  Meir  resided. 
This  most  important  task  he  foimd  to  be  his  prohibition,  which 
he  made  in  the  name  of  the  Talmud,  and  at  once  all  Israel  (in 
Europe)  hailed  this  luminary,  and  accepted  without  protests 
or  hesitation,  his  prohibition,  and  made  it  a  permanent  law. 

He  saw  and  understood  that  the  Jews  scattered  among 
Christian  nations,  among  whom  divorce  is  prohibited  and 
polygamy  regarded  as  a  sin,  will  not  exist  long,  if  they  persist 
to  permit  themselves  these  things,  according  to  their  laws,  and, 
as  he  had  not  the  power  to  forbid  what  was  permitted  in  the 
Torah  expressly,  he  strove  to  remove  the  causes  leading  to 
divorce ;  and  thereby  he  made  his  co-religionists  so  far  like  the 
Christians  that  they  should  be  able  to  live  side  by  side. 

He  decreed,  on  pain  of  excommunication,  and  without  re- 
vocation or  qualification,  that  polygamy  be  prohibited  to  every 
Israelite  (see  App.  No.  13),  and  only  monogamy  should  be 
legal,  and  as  long  as  the  first  wife  lives,  it  is  prohibited  to  add 
to  her  another,  in  the  capacity  of  wife  or  concubine.  Thereby, 
the  main  cause  for  divorce  was  also  removed,  but  he  did  not 
content  himself  with  this  decree  alone,  but  added  thereto  a 
decree  opposed  to  the  Pentateuch,  that  divorce  cannot  take 
place  without  the  assent  of  the  divorced  wife,  if  the  man  and 
his  wife  should  find  it  impossible  to  live  together,  then  only  if 
the  woman  is  also  willing,  the  husband  can  divorce  her. 
Whereas,  till  then,  the  woman  was  dependent  on  the  will  of 
her  husband,  for  good  or  for  ill.  It  is  superfluous  for  us  to 
expatiate  on  the  consequences  of  these  two  decrees,  or  rather 
reforms  of  how  much  utility  they  have  been  to  social  life  and 
the  feeble  sex;  as  every  thinking  man  can  understand  this. 

Added  to  these  prohibitions,  he  permitted  Jewish  apostates, 
who  are  penitent,  to  return  to  their  faith,  and  also  prohibited, 
on  pain  of  excommimication,  to  open  a  strange  man's  letter 
and  read  it,  without  the  assent  of  the  person  to  whom  it  is  ad- 
dressed. 

His  energy,  great  wisdom,  and  deep  observation  of  his 


52  THE   HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

nation's  life,  and  strong  wish  to  ensure  its  existence,  we  can 
see  from  these  reforms,  which  we  do  not  find  made  by  any  rabbis 
of  his  predecessors ;  and  he  was  justly  called,  afterwards,  "  The 
Luminary  of  the  Exile,"  as  he  illuminated  in  truth  the  eyes  of 
all  Israelites  and  gave  to  them  a  new  life.  He  composed  com- 
mentaries on  several  tracts  of  the  Talmud,  which  became  dis- 
tinguished in  his  age,  and  the  commentator  on  the  Torah, 
Rashi  (whom  we  are  going  to  mention)  borrowed  from  him 
much. 

R.  Machir,  his  brother  (1030),  was  also  a  Talmudic  scholar 
and  the  author  of  a  Talmudic  dictionary.  Several  ritual  poets 
were  also  found  in  Germany  and  Northern  France,  as  Meshulam 
bar  Kleinmus,  R.  Simeon,  b.  Isaac,  b.  Abun  of  Mayence,  who 
lamented  the  miseries  of  their  paytonim  in  ritual  poems  and 
prayers  for  mercy  (Sli'choth),  but  their  work  in  the  study  of  the 
Torah  was  small ;  and  only  in  Metz  and  Mayence  in  Germany, 
and  Rheims,  Loiret,  in  Northern  France  and  Narbonne,  Mont- 
pellier  and  Beziers  in  Southern  France  were  many  scholars, 
whose  active  occupation  was  mental  activity  in  the  field  of  the 
Talmud.  (The  college  of  Talmud  in  Narbonne  was  erected  by 
R.  Machir,  who  had  arrived  from  Babylonia  to  France ;  and  in 
the  second  half  of  the  eleventh  century  came  from  this  college 
R.  Moses  Hadarshon,  known  as  the  commentator  on  some  tracts 
in  the  Talmud,  and  some  books  of  Scripture;  and  later  gener- 
ations drew  much  on  his  wisdom,  and  made  many  quotations 
from  him.  All  or  most  of  his  writings  are  collected  in  one 
work  entitled  "  Breshith  Rabthi."  R.  Joseph  Tob  Aim  (Baufils, 
of  Lemans),  who  has  edited  and  systematized  many  subjects 
and  speculations  of  the  Talmud,  a  list  of  the  Tanaim  and 
Amoraim,  and  the  answers  of  the  Gaonim,  and  R.  Elijah  the 
Elder,  both  men  of  that  age,  were  esteemed  as  poets,  but  did 
not  approach  those  of  Spain. 

What  is  worthy  of  notice,  considering  the  various  countries 
at  that  age,  is  that  whereas  the  scholars  of  Spain  (see  App. 
No.  14)  exerted  their  great  powers  and  displayed  their  knowl- 
edge in  collecting  Halakhas  of  the  Talmud,  the  scholars  of 
Germany  devoted  themselves  wholly  to  collecting  Hagadas 
and  Midrashim,  so  that  various  compilers  rose.  Of  the  dis- 
tinguished compilers  of  Midrash  are:  R.  Moses  of  Narbonne, 
R.  Jehudah   of  Toulouse,    R.    Simeon,   author  of    "Yalkut 


RASHI   OR  iSAAClDES.  53 

Simoni,"  where  he  compiled  words  of  wisdom,  morals  and 
Hogada,  from  fifty  various  ancient  works  and  arranged  them 
according  to  the  portions  of  the  Pentateuch.  This  Yalkut  is 
a  comprehensive  reference  book  for  Agadic  lore,  and  drove 
out  of  the  field  the  Agadic  compilation  "Lekach  Tob,"  or 
"Psigtha  Zutrha"  by  R.  Tobiah  b.  Eliezer,  his  contemporary, 
who  lived  in  Greece  (Byzantium)  at  that  time. 

We  will  skip  over  a  number  of  lecturers  and  Pashtanim 
for  want  of  space,  and  we  will  come  to  our  great  teacher, 
through  whom  only  we  are  enabled  to  comprehend  the  Talmud, 
and  to  read  it  and  study  it,  namely:  R.  Soloman  b.  Isaac  of 
Trayes,  called  (by  using  the  initials)  "Rashi"  (1040-1105). 
He  was  the  first  who  gave  a  complete  piece  of  work  in  his  com- 
mentary on  the  Talmud.  He  is  one  of  the  most  wonder- 
ful phenomena  given  by  Nature,  perhaps  once  in  thousand 
years ;  his  advantage  over  Maimonides,  his  peer,  is  in  the  fact 
that  he  met  with  general  acceptation  in  the  whole  world,  and 
no  one  presumes  to  study  the  Talmud  without  him.  The  in- 
fluence he  has  on  Jewish  students  has  met  with  no  opposition 
or  discontent.  The  generations  subsequent  to  Rashi,  styled 
him  "  Parshandatha "  (a  proper  name  in  Scripture),  that  is, 
" Explainer  of  the  Law."  Justly  was  he  called  thus;  in  truth 
no  man  arose  after  him  with  such  ability  to  shed  light  on  the 
intricacies  of  the  law  or  on  obscure  passages  in  Scripture. 

His  comprehensive  intellect  embraced  that  mighty  and 
eternal  structure,  the  whole  vast  province  of  the  theological 
literature  of  Israel.  By  his  commentaries  he  has  introduced 
common  sense  into  the  study  of  the  vastest  and  profoundest 
subjects.  The  study  of  the  tracts  lacking  his  commentary, 
although  many  different  other  men  have  attempted  to  supply 
the  deficiency,  gives  us  many  pains  and  much  trouble,  till  we 
come  to  understand  the  real  meaning.  As  what  Rashi  eluci- 
dates in  a  few  words,  or  sometimes  even  by  one  word  added 
to  the  text  before  us,  has  to  be  commented  upon  by  others  in 
many  laborious  lines  to  make  the  student  imderstand  the 
simple  meaning  of  the  Talmud. 

The  life  of  Rashi  has  been  written  by  many  scholars,  who 
have  discussed  at  length  his  commentaries,  legal  decisions,  and 
ritual  poetry.  The  latest,  A.  H.  Weiss,  in  the  periodical  "Beth 
Talmud  "  and  in  separate  pamphlets.    We  think  it  therefore 


54  THE   HISTORY  OF  THE   TALMUD. 

superfluous  to  repeat  them,  as  this  is  not  our  task  here.  We 
have  to  remark,  however,  on  several  points  relating  to  the 
Talmud  here,  on  which  those  scholars  have  left  something  for 
us  to  add  :  An  examination  of  Rashi's  commentaries  on 
the  Talmud,  on  the  Bible,  and  legal  decisions  in  his  "  Hapardes," 
and  so  also  his  ritual  poems,  will  show  that  they  differ  in  their 
nature  totally.  In  his  commentary  on  the  Talmud,  which 
general  criticism  places  above  his  other  writings,  we  see  that  he 
is  very  cautious  to  decide  any  Halakha,  and  to  draw  from  the 
statements  of  the  Talmud  definite  conclusions  as  to  a  law  or 
custom.  We  do  not  remember  in  his  whole  commentary  on 
the  Talmud,  any  place  where  he  should  decide  "that  such  a 
Halakha  prevails,"  or  even,  "so  was  the  custom  in  his  days," 
as  we  find  on  many  occasions  in  the  commentaries  of  his 
disciples  "Tosphath, "  and  we  have  long  ago  shown  in  our 
work  about  Phylacteries  (p.  24),  that  he  has  interpreted  an 
obscure  passage  in  the  Talmud  in  contradiction  to  the  cus- 
tom and  Halakha  accepted  among  the  Gaonim,  because,  ac- 
cording to  his  method,  it  is  the  plain  meaning  of  the  passage 
(see  there,  p.  30).  Everyw^here  he  bewares  of  dialectics,  and  of 
contradictions  between  some  passages  of  the  Talmud  and  others, 
but  he  explained  the  subject  of  the  passage  according  to  its 
simple  meaning  in  its  own  place.  In  case  of  Agadoth  he  also 
was  careful  to  give  only  an  explanation  of  the  words,  literally 
without  any  remark  or  opinion  of  his  own,  even  hinted.  This 
is  his  custom  in  his  whole  commentary  on  the  Talmud.  Where 
he  foimd  the  text  corrupted,  he  corrected  it  according  to  his 
opinion,  and  in  accordance  to  his  profound  knowledge  of  the 
Talmud,  of  its  style  and  language ;  and,  if  necessary,  removed 
the  old  version,  not  fearing  additions  or  eliminations,  provided 
the  real  meaning  of  the  Talmud  he  comprehended,  without 
resorting  to  forced  and  far-fetched  reasoning. 

His  commentary  on  the  Bible,  however,  is  different,  as 
mostly  he  construes  according  to  the  Halakha ;  i.e.,  as  the  sages 
had  explained  the  biblical  passages  in  the  Talmud  and  Mid- 
rashim,  without  regard  to  the  fact  that  the  literal  meaning  of 
the  biblical  texts  often  does  not  bear  out  these  constructions. 
Often  he  was  not  averse  to  interpret  the  text  according  to 
the  Talmudic  interpretation,  even  when  its  meaning  is  mani- 
festly contrary  thereto  by  all  the  rules  of  language.     His 


RASHI   OR   ISAACIDES.  55 

object  in  this  is  unknown  to  us,  and  it  can  only  be  conjectured 
that  he  did  not  Hke  that  his  commentary  should  be  at  variance 
with  the  Talmudic  interpretations  and  conclusions,  which  cor- 
rectness and  justice  he  forces  himself  in  his  commentary  on 
the  Talmud  to  make  manifest. 

Not  so  in  his  decisions;  he  endeavors  always  to  interpret 
the  laws  leniently  (mildly),  and  is  averse  to  rigor.  There  he 
also  avoids  dialectics,  tries  not  to  attain  his  object  by  strange 
and  eccentric  reasonings,  but  is  only  intent  on  finding  the  real 
deep  meaning  of  the  law,  and  to  interpret  it  as  mildly  as  it  is 
in  his  power.  It  is  true,  that  most  of  his  decisions  are  written 
by  his  disciples,  and  we  cannot  find  there  that  clearness  of 
language  and  wonderful  felicity  of  expression  which  he  displays 
in  his  two  above-mentioned  commentaries.  The  Replies  of 
the  Gaonim  and  their  works  served  to  him  also  as  a  guide, 
but  he  did  not  tread  in  their  footsteps  blindfold,  but  he 
sifted  their  statements  and  construed  them  ingeniously  into 
accordance  with  his  own  opinion ;  this  we  witness  in  his  book 
Pardes,*  which  has  been  accepted  as  a  great  authority  for  all 
Poskim  deciders  of  the  law  subsequent  to  him. 

We  do  not  possess  his  commentary  on  all  the  tracts  of  the 
Talmud,  for  of  three  tracts  we  know  with  certitude  that  the 
commentaries  are  not  his;  and  in  the  case  of  other  tracts, 
criticism  is  doubtful  whether  they  are  from  his  pen.  And  it 
may  be  that  they  got  lost  in  the  course  of  time,  either  because 
he  did  not  compose  his  comments  on  the  Talmud  in  the  natural 
order,  but  in  the  order  in  which  they  were  studied  in  the  great 
college  at  the  head  of  which  he  was,  and  whither  pupils  flocked 
from  all  places  of  the  earth,  after  the  decease  of  the  celebrated 
scholars  of  Lorraine;  or  perhaps  he  left  this  world  before  he 
had  completed  his  commentary  on  the  whole  Talmud,  as  he 
did  not  complete  the  commentary  on  the  Bible,  for  those  on 
the  books  of  Chronicles,  Ezra,  and  Nehemiah,  and  a  part  of  the 
commentary  on  the  books  of  Ezekiel  and  Job  have  not  issued 
from  his  pen,  though  they  bear  no  name,  for  they  are  easily 
distinguishable  from  his  version  in  their  style  and  by  their 
nature. 

What  Rashi  had  done  to  the  Talmud,  his  disciples  have 

*  It  was  also  reprinted  by  "as  at  Warsau,  1870,  with  our  preface  and  a  few  notes. 


56  THE   HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

done  to  his  commentary,  which  they  have  surrounded  by  com- 
ments and  remarks  on  the  margins,  sometimes  to  make  plainer 
his  meaning,  and  sometimes  they  also  made  additions  to 
amplify  his  statements  by  Agadas  and  Halakhas,  and  in  the 
course  of  time  they  crept  into  his  own  commentary  and  were 
interpolated  into  the  words  of  Rashi,  but  to  separate  them 
from  his  own  words  it  is  very  difficult,  even  for  the  lancet  of 
sharp  criticism. 

Modem  criticism  has  rightly  thought  that  Rashi  (Isaacides) 
began  his  labor  of  the  commentary  on  the  Talmud,  which  was 
composed  gradually,  by  the  lectures  which  he  delivered  to  the 
students.  After  this  he  turned  to  the  Midrash,  and  from 
it  passed  to  the  books  of  Scripture.  And  as  soon  as  his  com- 
mentary was  heard  among  the  living,  an  echo  sounded  in  the 
camp  of  Israel  that  if  not  Isaacides  who  laid  his  hand  upon  it 
to  investigate  and  to  commentate  it,  it  would  remain  almost 
neglected  as  its  brother,  the  Palestinian  Talmud.  No  wonder, 
therefore,  that  after  a  short  time,  some  fifty  commentaries  on  the 
commentary  of  Rashi  sprung  up,  which  examine  nicely  every 
word  and  syllable  that  has  proceeded  from  him ;  and  the  last, 
Kabbalist,  R.  Samson,  of  Astropol,  was  not  incorrect  when  he 
said  in  his  book,  "  Likute  Shoshanim"  ["  Collections  of  Roses"], 
that  every  drop  of  ink  that  has  come  forth  from  Rashi' s  pen 
it  is  needful  to  sit  seven  days  and  to  examine  with  one's  whole 
attention. 

Thus  while  Alphassi  illuminated  Spain  by  his  elucidations 
of  the  Halakhas,  another  sun,  Rashi,  rose  also  in  France  to 
shed  yet  more  light,  to  comment  on  the  Talmud,  its  Halakhas 
and  Agadas.  And  the  latter  had  more  success,  in  so  far  that 
his  commentary  was  accepted  in  all  the  world  (among  Chris- 
tian scholars  also,  as  has  avowed  Nicholas  de  Lyra,  some  two 
hundred  years  after  Rashi' s  decease,  that  to  the  right  under- 
standing of  the  words  and  simple  meaning  of  the  texts,  Rashi 's 
commentary  has  led  him)  by  universal  assent.  And  therein 
also  is  France  superior  to  Spain,  that  though  the  latter  has 
been  studying  diligently  Torah,  even  from  the  ancient  times, 
while  the  colleges  at  Sura  and  Pumbeditha  existed  yet,  and 
after  their  fall,  assumed  pre-eminence  in  the  usages  and  litera- 
ture of  Israel,  their  scholars  could  never  agree,  and  were  for- 
ever disputing.     But  in  France,  since  Rashi's  commentary 


RASHBAM  AND   TAM.  57 

began  to  shine,  no  voice  dissented  from  the  universal  approval, 
and  those  who  sometimes  were  at  variance  with  him,  did  not 
withhold  the  great  honors  which  were  justly  due  to  him,  and 
endeavored  to  reconcile  their  own  opinions  with  his.  For  two 
hundred  years  continuously,  after  Rashi's  decease,  his  disciples 
were  dihgent  at  the  holy  work  of  spreading  the  study  of  the 
Talmud  and  a  correct  understanding  of  the  great  work  of  their 
master.  They  called  their  labors  only ' '  Additions ' '  (Tosphoth) , 
i.e.,  their  thoughts  which  suggested  themselves  to  them  to  add 
to  his  commentary,  and  to  explain  it. 

CHAPTER  XII. 

THE  DOCTORS  OF  FRANCE.   AUTHORS  OF  THE  TOSPHOTH. 

Through  the  Tosphoth  which  were  begun  by  Rashi's  own 
descendants  as  his  two  sons-in-law,  Meirb.  Samuel  and  Jehudah 
bar  Nathan  and  the  sons  of  the  first  Samuel  and  Jacob  Tam, 
the  activity  of  the  scholars  of  France  and  Germany  assumed 
great  proportions  and  was  exalted,  so  that  all  Israel  in  the 
Middle  Ages  accepted  them  unanimously,  and  in  the  course  of 
time  the  numbers  of  their  disciples  and  the  pupils  of  their 
disciples  increased.  So  that  more  than  two  hundred  great 
Talmudists  are  known  to  the  historian,  but  whom  it  is  needless 
to  enumerate  here,  except  a  few  which  we  deem  necessary  for 
our  work. 

His  grandson,  R.  Samuel  b.  Meir,  or  Rashbam  (1085-1158), 
did  not  content  himself  with  the  commentary  of  his  grand- 
father on  the  Bible,  as  well  as  on  the  Talmud,  and  tried  his 
strength  to  explain  them  after  his  own  method,  that  is,  accord- 
ing to  their  deep  literal  meaning,  and  leaving  ingenious  but 
forced  constructions  to  dialecticians,  even  when  the  literal 
interpretation  will  thus  be  in  direct  contradiction  to  the  Hal- 
akha  (see  App.  No.  15)  however,  without  any  opposition  to  the 
traditions  expressed.  He  only  added  in  his  commentary  "  ac- 
cording to  the  deep  literal  meaning,"  but  leaves  one  to  think 
that  even  the  traditional  interpretation  about  the  Halakha 
can  find  place.  To  the  Hagada,  however,  which  tries  to  inter- 
pret biblical  texts  according  to  its  legends,  he  opposes  with  all 
the  strength  of  his  intellect,  and  makes  manifest  their  contra- 


S8  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

diction,  so  as  to  demolish  the  Hagada  to  the  foundation.  In 
his  commentary  on  the  Talmud,  however,  he  is  given  to  lengthy 
reasonings  and  dialectics  and  also  endeavors  to  arrive  at  deci- 
sions of  Halakhas,  which  his  grandfather  took  care  to  avoid. 
Whoever  sees  critically,  Rashi's  commentary  on  Tract  Baba 
Bathra  up  to  29b,  and  from  there  onwards,  Rashbam's 
commentary  which  is  its  substitute  from  that  place  onwards, 
will  be  astonished  at  the  great  difference  between  them,  if  but 
at  the  relative  quantities  of  Rashi's  comments  and  Rashbam's. 

From  his  commentaries  and  compositions  we  see  that  he  had 
much  knowledge  of  diverse  languages,  and  of  the  manners  and 
customs  of  nations  and  their  modes  of  life,  and  gave  human 
reasons  for  many  commandments  of  the  Pentateuch.  In 
Northern  France  his  commentaries  were  accepted  in  the  colleges 
and  it  became  their  main  authority. 

But  his  younger  brother,  Jacob,  styled  "Rabenu  Tam," 
devoted  his  whole  mind  to  studies  of  the  Talmud  chiefly,  and 
he  became  the  center  of  the  authors  of  the  Tosphoth,  to  him 
flocked  men  with  questions  from  all  ends  of  the  earth,  to  whom 
he  was  as  an  oracle.  Justly  we  may  entitle  him  the  Pillar  of 
the  Talmud.  He  went  to  the  depths  of  the  sea  of  the  Talmud, 
and  made  it  his  first  task  to  reconcile  apparent  contradictions 
therein.  He  likewise  •  mended  many  corrupted  texts  in  the 
Talmud,  though  of  him  it  has  been  said  that  he  decreed  on  the 
pain  of  excommunication  not  to  amend  any  text  in  the  Talmud, 
and  in  many  places  he  disagrees  with  his  grandfather.  Aside 
from  this  he  did  not  at  one's  own  conjecture,  neglect  com- 
mentaries on  Scriptures  and  grammatical  studies,  and  decided 
in  favor  of  Menachem  b.  Sruk  agaijist  Duns  b.  Labrat  in  his 
book  "Hahakhraoth"  (Reconciliations) ;  he  also  tried  his  ability 
for  poetry.  ,  As  his  biography  has  been  written  by  the  learned 
A.  H.  Weiss  in  a  separate  book,  it  is  unnecessary  to  expatiate 
on  it. 

Here  is  the  place  to  remark  that  in  late  generations  the 
second  pair  of  phylacteries  which  pietists  put  on  after  the 
prayer,  have  been  styled  after  him  on  accoimt  of  two  or  three 
words  which  he  wrote  in  his  commentary  on  an  obscure  passage 
in  Tract  Mena'hoth  in  opposition  to  Rashi's  commentary,  on 
account  of  a  hair-splitting  discussion  in  the  language  of  the 
Gemara,  though  he  had  never  the  intention  to  decide  so  the 


JOSEPH    KARA,    ISAAC    THE    ELDER.  59 

Halakha,  as  his  grandfather  Rashi  had  also  not  intended  in  his 
commentary  on  the  Halakha,  still  those  phylacteries  are  called 
after  him.  In  truth  neither  the  one  nor  the  other  was  used  yet 
as  phylacteries,  as  testifies  the  greatest  among  the  authors  of 
Tosphoth,  R.  Isaac  the  Elder  (as  this  is  explained  in  one 
book  on  Phylacteries) . 

Among  the  faithful  disciples  whom  Pashi  had  in  the  college 
at  Troy  it  is  proper  to  mention  R.  Joseph  b.  Simeon 
Kara  who  was  revealed  to  us  recently  by  modern  criticism ; 
and  R.  Joseph  Bchor  Shor  who  was  a  disciple  of  Rabenu  Tam, 
and  composed  a  commentary  on  the  Pentateuch  in  the  spirit 
of  that  of  Rashbam.  The  other  commentators  on  Scripture 
among  the  authors  of  the  Tosphath  and  their  disciples,  how- 
ever, as  the  author  of  "  Hagan  "  (The  Garden)  a  commentary  on 
the  Pentateuch,  which  is  to  be  found  in  two  different  versions, 
and  some  more  commentaries  by  R.  Hezekiah  b.  Manoah,  R. 
Isaac  Halevi,  R.  Jehuda  b.  R.  Eliezer,  R.  Jacob  d'lllesques,  do 
not  cling  to  the  principle  of  literal  interpretation,  but  of  Drash 
and  Mysticism.  Rashi's  commentary  was,  however,  their 
model.  The  chiefs  of  the  authors  of  Tosphoth  in  the  period 
of  from  1 167  till  1300  were  :  R.  Isaac  b.  Samuel,  called  R. 
Isaac  the  Elder,  from  Dampirere,  the  nephew  of  Jacob  Tam, 
his  son  Elchanan,  Eliezer  b.  Samuel  ("Ram")  of  Metz,  author 
of  "Sepher  Yereim"  (Book  of  the  God-Fearing) ,  Isaac  b. 
Abraham,  Junior  (Ritzba),  his  brother,  Simsan  of  Chanz 
(Rashba),  his  great  labors  are  called  Tosphoth  of  Chanz, 
Jehudah  b.  Isaac  from  Paris,  called  Sirlian,  Ephraim  b.  Isaac 
from  Reugspurk,  and  Nathan  Official,  who  will  be  mentioned 
by  us  further  in  a  separate  chapter.  Among  the  latest  of  the 
authors  of  the  Tosphoth,  however,  we  may  name  the  Rabbi 
Moses  of  Caucy,  author  of  "Smag"  who  is  also  mentioned  in 
Tosphoth  thrice  (Berakhoth,  14b,  43a,  Aboda  Zarah,  13a), 
and  R.  Jacob  of  Courbel  to  whom  have  been  attributed  the 
questions  and  answers  from  Heaven,  and  we  doubt  whether 
Isaac  of  Vienna  author  of  the  well-known  book  "  Or  Zarua " 
(Diffused  Light),  who  also  lived  at  that  time,  has  also  been 
mentioned  in  Tosphoth  (see  our  work  on  Phylacteries,  p.  140), 
by  the  name  of  R.  Isaac-simply,  as  not  every  time  when  the 
name  R.  Isaac-barely  is  mentioned  in  Tosphoth,  R.  Isaac  the 
Elder  is  meant. 


6o  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

This  last,  R.  Moses  of  Caucy,  contributed  much  to  restore 
the  study  of  the  Talmud  to  its  former  splendor  in  his  days, 
when  in  Spain  it  was  almost  stopped,  and  along  with  it  many 
ceremonies,  as  phylacteries,  Mezuzoth  and  Tzitzith,  which  were 
not  seen  in  his  time  in  any  part  of  Spain  or  other  countries. 
Owing  to  the  oppression  of  the  other  religions  by  the  dominant 
religion,  the  Israelites  began  to  blend  with  the  nations,  and 
thousands  of  them  embraced  ostensibly  the  dominant  religion, 
and  some  even  conscientiously,  having  despaired  of  the  former 
hope  of  Israel,  Moses  of  Coucy  therefore  devoted  himself  to  his 
work  and  travelled  from  city  to  city,  and  from  land  to  land,  to 
encourage  Israel  in  the  study  of  the  Talmudic  literature,  and 
restore  the  activity,  and  he  is  the  first  who  required  help  for 
his  aim  from  gentiles,  his  friends,  though  not  co-religionists,  and 
that  his  works  should  find  acceptance  he  backed  them  by 
dreams  and  natural  phenomena  that  took  place  at  the  time, 
which  he  warned  the  people  that  they  were  signs  from  heaven, 
and  also  by  astrology,  to  arouse  the  people  to  return  to  the 
study  of  the  Talmud  and  its  commandments.  As  he  testified 
himself  in  his  book  which  he  wrote  in  his  later  days  (1288), 
"  Sepher  Mitzvoth  GadoV  (Positive  Commandments)  whose  title 
is  abbreviated  "Smag."  After  writing  the  sermons  in  exile, 
he  concludes  :  "After  the  year  4995  after  creation  (1235),  an 
event  took  place  from  heaven  to  chastize.  And  in  the  year 
1236  I  was  in  Spain  preaching  to  and  reproving  them,  God 
strengthened  my  arms  by  Jews  and  Gentiles'  dreams,  and 
visions  of  the  stars  and  extended  his  mercy  to  me,  and  the  earth 
trembled*  and  there  was  general  terror,  great  repentances  were 
made,  and  thousands  as  well  as  myriads  accepted  the  sacred 
ceremonies  of  Tephilin,  Mezuzoth,  and  Tzitzith.  So  I  was 
afterwards  in  other  countries,  and  they  were  accepted  in  all 
places,  and  I  was  asked  for  a  commentary  on  these  command- 
ments in  brief."  Not  only  in  France  and  Spain  were  such  books 
written  about  the  practical  ceremonies  in  the  spirit  of  the  Tal- 
mud, but  also  in  Germany,  R.  Baruch  of  Germisa  composed 
"Sepher  Hatrumah"  and  R.  Isaac  from  Vienna,  his  book 
"  Diffused  Light"  (Or  Zarua)  which  all  treat  of  ceremonies  and 
Halakhas  after  the  rules  of  the  Talmud,  which  those  sages  saw 

*  See  our  "  Phylacterien,"  page  85,  concerning  the  trembling  of  the  earth,  men- 
tioned here. 


RELIGIOUS   DISPUTES.  61 

a  great  necessity  to  renew  and  arouse  the  nation  to  observe 
them,  after  the  Halakahs  of  Alfasi  and  Maimonides  had  become 
already  too  ancient  in  their  tone,  and  the  violent  persecutions 
then  directed  against  the  Talmud  diminished  the  number  of  the 
students.  It  would  seem  that  at  that  time  was  composed  also 
the  small  book  "  Questions  and  Answers  from  Heaven"  in  the 
name  of  R.  Jacob  of  Corbel  who  was  known  as  a  holy  man, 
to  show  to  the  people  that  its  hope  was  not  yet  at  end,  that  in 
heaven  all  wards  of  the  Talmud  are  venerated,  and  so  are  all 
sages  who  occupy  themselves  with  it,  as  seen  from  the  contents 
of  the  questions  and  answers  given  from  heaven  especially  in 
case  of  R.  Isaac  Alfasi,  about  whom  from  heaven  it  was 
answered:  "  Not  in  an  old  man  is  wisdom,  nor  in  schoolboys 
counsel,  but  my  covenant  I  shall  fulfil  with  Isaac,"  and  this 
may  be  a  kind  of  basis  for  the  programme  made  by  Sliem  Tobb, 
Joseph  Falkira  (1264),  that  diligent  study  of  Alfasi  may  sub- 
stitute the  study  of  the  Talmud. 

CHAPTER  XIII. 

RELIGIOUS    DISPUTES    OF   ALL    PERIODS. 

From  the  earliest  recorded  times  there  have  been  disputes 
between  men  on  faith  and  religion.  When,  in  pagan  coimtries, 
the  idols  had  become  great  in  niimber  and  each  man  consid- 
ered his  own  the  right  one,  he  strove  to  convert  his  fellows  to 
his  own  opinion,  whether  through  benevolence  or  from  wrath 
that  the  idol  of  his  neighbor  should  be  considered  greater  than 
his  own.  Traces  of  such  disputes  are  found  in  the  Prophets. 
To  the  Jewish  people  was  probably  due  the  increase  in  the 
violence  and  frequency  of  such  disputes,  since  its  mission  was 
always  the  annihilation  of  idol-worship.  Being  monotheistic, 
it  could  not  hve  at  peace  with  any  gods  besides  its  own.  No 
historical  importance  can  be  attached  to  such  disputes  among 
and  with  the  heathen,  because  the  number  of  idols  was  often 
as  large  as  that  of  the  worshippers.  But  when  Christianity, 
whose  great  aim  was  to  convert  all  humanity  and  to  extinguish 
all  theologies,  began  to  spread  over  and  to  dominate  the  world, 
the  matter  of  rehgious  disputes  assumed  a  new  and  baleful 
aspect,  for  presecutions  and  trials  were  mercilessly  inflicted  on 


62  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

all  who  opposed  it,  whether  those  who  took  an  active  part  in 
the  controversies  or  those  who  refused  to  enter  into  them. 

In  recording  the  history  of  the  Talmud  and  of  its  persecu- 
tions we  cannot  pass  over  the  disputes  concerning  it  from  the 
time  of  its  birth,  and  continuing  throughout  its  troubled  history 
in  succeeding  ages.  A  minute  history  of  all  these  controver- 
sies, however,  their  dates,  the  names  of  the  disputants,  the 
topics  of  the  disputes,  as  well  as  the  consequences  to  the  Tal- 
mud, would  require  a  volume  twice  the  bulk  of  the  Talmud 
itself.  We  will  therefore  content  ourselves  with  devoting  to 
it  a  separate  chapter,  mentioning  only  the  greater  historical 
controversies  and  giving  a  r^sum6  of  the  subject  matter  of  the 
disputes  as  we  deem  them  of  value  to  our  readers. 

Already  in  the  first  century  we  have  seen  that  the  disputes 
between  the  Jewish  Christians  and  their  brethren  who  did  not 
believe  in  Jesus'  Messiahship  were  many.  In  the  Talmud  are 
given  the  names  of  many  sages  and  Amoraims  who  were  com- 
pelled to  enter  upon  disputations  with  their  Christian  brethem.* 
But  in  the  second  and  third  centuries,  houses  for  disputations 
(see  App.  No.  lo)  had  already  been  established,  as  well  in  Pales- 
tine as  in  Babylonia,  and  doubtless  also  in  many  other  places 
where  Jews  dwelt.  Those  known  to  us  by  name  are  the  house 
of  Abidan,  the  house  of  Abiani,  and  that  of  Nitzraphi.  The 
Talmud  relates  that  the  Jews  were  forced  to  come  hither,  or  to 
furnish  sufficient  explanation  for  not  so  doing. 

We  have  no  record  of  the  results  of  these  disputes,  but  in 
the  sixth  century  we  see  Priscus,  a  Jewish  officer  of  King 
Eilprich,  forced  to  a  controversy.  When  ordered  to  embrace 
Christianity  he  naively  replied  "that  he  could  not  believe  that, 
to  save  sinners,  God  was  compelled  to  enter  into  marital  rela- 
tions with  a  woman,  and  finally,  in  order  to  redeem  the  world, 
underwent  the  death-agony,  when  at  his  command  were  hosts 
of  angels  not  needed  in  heaven."  For  this  he  was  imprisoned. 
Henceforward  in  almost  every  century  of  the  Christian  era 
there  arose  fanatics  who  forced  the  Jews  into  controversy.  In 
the  seventh  century  these  disputes  were  used  as  weapons 
against  the  Jews  of  Spain  in  documents  issued  by  Isidorie, 
Bishop  of  Seville.     These  and  other  writings  against  the  Jews, 

*  R.  Aqiba  with  R.  Gamaliel,  Joshua  b.  Hanania,  Ishmael,  Abuhu,  and  many 
others. 


RELIGIOUS    DISPUTES.  63 

added  to  the  verbal  disputes,  finally  resulted  in  the  ninth  cen- 
tury, during  the  reign  of  Charles  the  Bald,  in  invectives  pro- 
mulgated by  the  Bishop  of  Amulo,  denouncing  the  Jewish 
creed  as  "superstition"  and  inciting  all  Christians  to  their 
duty  in  eradicating  the  error  from  the  minds  of  the  Jews,  to 
force  them  to  accept  the  Gospel  in  place  of  their  belief  in  the 
two  Messiahs,  one  a  descendant  of  David  and  the  other  a  de- 
scendant of  Joseph.  It  is  remarkable  that  in  these  documents 
the  bishop  complains  that  the  Jews,  by  their  eloquent  sermons 
and  lectures,  made  more  impression  on  their  hearers  than  did 
the  preaching  of  the  Christians,  as  he  was  convinced  by  per- 
sonal experience.  And,  indeed,  in  this  he  was  not  mistaken; 
for  where  the  Jews'  lot  was  ameliorated,  as  in  the  reign  of  Louis 
the  Saint — who,  as  well  as  his  wife,  Judith,  honored  the  Jews,  so 
much  so  as  to  change  for  their  sake  the  fair-day  from  Saturday 
to  Sunday— many  Christians  came  to  the  synagogues  to  hear 
the  Rabbis  and  the  scholars  among  them  read  with  pleasure 
the  writings  of  Philo  and  Flavins  instead  of  the  Gospel,  and 
likewise  learned  from  Jewish  scholars  the  interpretation  of 
Scripture,  as  Rhabanus  Maurus  of  Fulda  avows  in  his  commen- 
tary on  the  Bible. 

The  Jews  in  Arabia  also  were  forced  to  dispute  with  the 
Mussulmans,  who  assured  them  that  the  teaching  of  the  Tal- 
mud had  its  day  and  Islam  was  even  then  usurping  its 
place.  When  Basilius  the  Macedonian  ascended  the  throne 
of  Byzantitim  he  summoned  learned  Jews  to  argue  with 
Christian  priests,  who  strove  to  convince  them  that  Jesus  had 
become  the  center  of  the  law  and  prophets.  But  these  dis- 
putes are  insignificant  compared  with  those  of  the  last  four 
centuries  of  the  Middle  Ages ;  during  this  period  the  number 
of  Jewish  apostates  increased,  who  challenged  their  brethem 
of  the  old  faith  to  arguments.  Massacre  and  pillage  were  the 
results  of  these  disputes,  the  invitation  to  which  was,  briefly, 
as  follows:  "If  ye  be  willing  and  obey,  the  good  of  the  land 
shall  ye  eat ;  but  if  ye  refuse  and  rebel,  by  the  sword  shall  ye  be 
devoured."  And,  as  if  no  loophole  should  exist  through 
which  the  Jews  might  evade  persecution,  if  a  Christian  were 
converted  to  the  Jewish  faith  and  mocked  his  former  religion 
the  Jews  were  held  responsible  and  punished.  Thus  in  the 
ninth  century  the  priest  Boda  accepted  Judaism  and  ridiculed 


64  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

the  Christians,  going  even  so  far  as  to  beg  the  Mohammedan 
rulers  in  Spain  to  permit  residence  in  that  country  only  to 
Jews  and  Mussulmans,  and  not  to  Christians.  Coystan  Becele- 
lonus  in  1005,  in  the  reign  of  Henry  II.,  wrote  a  pamphlet  in 
which  he  addressed  his  former  co-religionists  thus :  ' '  Fools 
read  the  prophet  Malachai,  who  says  in  God's  name,  '  I  am 
God,  without  change.'  How  then  can  you  believe  that  the 
Divinity  underwent  any  change?"  The  culmination  of  all 
this  was  a  renewed  outburst  of  wrath  and  persecution  directed 
against  the  Jews. 

The  Christians  did  not  consider  the  fact  that  he  who  ex- 
changes his  religion  for  another,  from  any  motive  whatever, 
by  so  doing  is  held  in  enmity  by  his  former  co-religionists  and 
his  affirmations  esteemed  of  no  value.  They  declared  that  the 
spirit  of  Satan  had  seduced  the  Jewish  proselytes,  while  at  the 
same  time  they  gave  credit  to  all  the  calumnies  uttered  by  the 
Christianized  Jews  and  granted  them  power  to  compel  the 
Jews  to  enter  into  dispute  with  them.  For  this  alleged  guilt 
of  Satan  they  punished  the  Jews  with  restriction  of  rights,  con- 
fiscation of  property,  or  total  exile.  An  instance  is  recorded 
of  the  conversion  in  London  in  1275,  during  the  reign  of  Henry 
II.,  of  the  great  Dominican  preacher  Robert  de  Redinge  to 
Judaism,  who  adopted  the  name  of  Haggai.  The  Christianized 
Jews  of  France  and  Spain  were  also  the  cause  of  great  trouble 
to  the  Jews  in  those  countries  during  the  Middle  Ages,  though 
Christianity  had  been  the  dominant  religion  but  for  a  short 
period. 

Of  the  more  prominent  controversies  of  that  time  may  be 
mentioned  that  of  Rabbi  Nathan  Haupniel,  one  of  the  writers 
of  the  commentaries  called  "Tosphoth"  (Taanith  IX.,  the 
Tosphoth  beginning  at  "  Aser  T'aser"),  known  among  Gentiles 
as  Nathan  Official,  the  colleague  of  Rabenu  Tarn  and  perfect 
under  the  Archbishop  of  Cens,  with  this  same  archbishop,  and, 
near  the  close  of  the  twelfth  century,  with  Pope  Alexander  and 
the  king  himself.  At  this  epoch  the  status  of  the  Jews  of 
France  was  one  of  peace  and  prosperity,  and  R.  Nathan  and 
his  colleague,  Rabenu  Tam,  were  honored  at  court.  The 
bishop  attempted  to  prove  by  the  passage,  "  Let  us  make  man 
in  our  image,"  that  the  Trinity  is  meant,  since  the  plural  is 
used.     R.  Nathan's  answer  was:  "Before  replying  to  this,  I 


RELIGIOUS    DISPUTES.  65 

desire  to  ask  of  you  a  question  in  law  concerning  myself.  You 
are  aware  that  I  loan  no  money  at  interest  (this  he  mentioned 
because  the  Jews  were  then  charged  with  usury) .  I  gave  to  a 
friend  a  sum  of  money  with  which  to  purchase  merchandise, 
and  in  the  profits  arising  from  which  I  was  to  share.  He  trans- 
ported the  goods  to  Paris,  but  finding  that  their  market  price 
had  greatly  diminished,  he  threw  all  into  the  Seine  without 
consulting  with  me.  I  am  therefore  of  opinion  that  I  may  de- 
mand of  him  to  return  to  me  the  whole  sum ;  for  by  what  right 
did  he  inflict  on  me  a  financial  loss  without  first  asking  my 
consent?"  The  bishop  replied:  "You  may  without  doubt; 
and  according  to  my  opinion  you  are  entitled  to  additional 
compensation  besides,  since  how  dared  he  destroy  your  prop- 
erty?" "If  that  is  so,"  answered  R.  Nathan,  "you  will  of 
course  grant  that  God  is  at  least  as  just  as  men,  and  if,  accord- 
ing to  you,  he  had  created  men  with  the  assistance  of  the  other 
two  Persons  of  the  Trinity,  how  comes  it  that  he  declares,  '  I 
will  destroy  man  whom  I  have  created  from  the  face  of  the 
earth?'  [Gen.  vi.  7],  without  first  consulting  the  other  Persons 
of  the  Trinity  ?  They  also  were  entitled  to  a  part  in  disposing 
of  man."  On  another  occasion,  being  asked  why  the  Jews 
were  obstinate  in  refusing  to  worship  Mary,  the  mother  of  God, 
R.  Nathan  replied:  "Tell  me,  you  who  are  so  learned,  whether 
the  question  never  occurred  to  you:  how  was  it  possible  that 
the  idea  of  worshipping  the  golden  calf  entered  the  Jews'  minds 
after  they  had  been  witnesses,  shortly  before,  of  all  the  signs 
and  wonders  of  the  Eternal,  and  the  thunders  and  lightnings  on 
Mount  Sinai?"  The  bishop  replied:  "True;  whenever  I  read 
this  passage  it  seems  a  great  problem  to  me."  "  But  I  am  not 
in  the  least  surprised,"  answered  R.  Nathan,  with  hidden  irony. 
"The  Jews  saw  that  the  gold  when  thrown  into  the  fire  was 
made  into  a  calf,  and  they  doubted  not  that  the  Holy  Ghost 
had  clothed  itself  in  this  precious  metal ;  but  you  who  affirm 
that  the  Holy  Ghost  became  incarnate  in  a  woman  must  needs 
remember  that  when  God  wished  to  give  to  the  Israelites  the 
Decalogue  he  warned  them :  '  For  three  days  you  shall  not  ap- 
proach a  woman'  [Ex.  xix.  15].  How,  then,  can  the  Jews  be- 
lieve, after  this,  that  when  He  desired  to  endow  Israel  with  a 
new  testament.  He  should  himself  approach  a  woman?"  Re- 
plies of  this  kind  were  numerous  from  R.  Nathan,  as  well  as 


66  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

fromliis  sons  Joseph  and  Asher.  Thus  it  is  also  told  of  R. 
Joseph  Bchor  Shor  that  to  the  question,  "Wh}^  did  God  choose 
to  appear  to  Moses  in  a  thorn?"  ("bush"  in  the  incorrect  ver- 
sion), he  replied,  "  Because  from  it  no  image  can  be  made,  nor 
can  it  be  used  to  form  a  cross." 

These  disputes,  however,  did  not  bring  about  the  terrible 
calamities  which  usually  followed  those  in  the  Middle  Ages, 
Judith,  the  Queen  of  Louis  the  Saint,  protected  the  Jews  and 
their  studies,  preventing  the  priests  from  taking  vengeance 
for  such  ironical  expressions  as  those  given  above.  When 
Bishop  Bodo  perceived  that  his  aims  were  not  furthered  by  the 
disputes,  he  prohibited  altogether  such  controversies  with  the 
hated  Jews.  A  few  decades  passed,  and  not  only  was  this  pro- 
hibition ignored,  but  the  Jews  were  again  constrained  to  dis- 
pute in  the  presence  of  Louis  IX.  and  his  wife,  and  the  chief 
civil  and  ecclesiastical  dignitaries,  the  latter  representing  Pope 
Gregory  IX.  It  fell  to  the  lot  of  the  four  rabbis,  R.  Jechiel  of 
Paris,  the  disciple  of  Jehudah  the  Pious ;  R.  Moses  of  Coucy, 
the  famed  travelling  lecturer;  R.  Jehudah  b.  David  of  Melon, 
and  R.  Solomon  b.  Samuel,  to  dispute  with  the  apostate  Donin, 
who  took  the  name  of  Nicolus.  This  man  while  yet  a  Jew  had 
evinced  a  tendency,  as  it  appeared  to  the  rabbis,  to  rebel  against 
Judaism,  and  therefore  they  had  excommunicated  him.  In 
revenge,  he  went  to  Rome  in  1239,  and  charged  that  the  Tal- 
mud contained  sacrilegious  sayings  as  to  Jesus  Christ  and  his 
mother,  and  so  distorted  the  Scriptures  by  its  interpretations 
and  comments  that  thereby  the  Dietywas  blasphemed.  He 
further  charged  that  it  gave  license  to  illegally  deprive  Gen- 
tiles of  their  property  and  granted  permission  to  deceive  them. 
The  sum  of  his  libel,  which  contained  thirty-five  points,  was 
that  the  Talmud  was  the  enemy  of  Christian  truth  and  the  sole 
cause  of  the  refusal  of  the  Jews  to  recognize  the  divinity  of 
Jesus. 

It  will  be  in  place  here,  before  further  consideration  of  the 
character  and  consequences  of  this  and  many  other  disputes  in 
which  Jewish  apostates  were  the  accusers  and  disputants,  to 
speak  of  the  Jews  of  the  Middle  Ages,  what  they  were,  and. 
having  in  view  only  the  truth,  to  expose  their  faults.  For  by 
their  great  intolerance,  and  their  conduct  towards  all  who  en- 
tertained opinions  of  the  least  liberality,   differing  ever  so 


RELIGIOUS   DISPUTES.  67 

slightly  from  their  own,  they  brought  down  upon  themselves, 
as  it  were  by  their  own  hands,  terrible  calamities.  There  was 
at  that  period,  as  is  well  known,  a  division  of  opinion  among 
the  Rabbis  themselves  concerning  the  books  of  Maimonides. 
Many  Rabbis  excommimicated  him  after  his  death,  and  even 
defaced  his  epitaph ;  and  the  intolerant  R.  Solomon  of  Mont- 
pelHers,  with  his  colleagues  and  disciples,  resorted  to  the 
Flagellants  and  Dominicans  for  aid,  saying:  "Behold,  there 
are  among  us  heretics  and  infidels,  for  they  were  seduced  by 
Moses  ben  Maimon  of  Egypt.  You  who  clear  your  community 
of  heretics,  clear  ours  too"  (Karpeles,  p.  346).  They  assented 
gladly,  and  the  books  of  Maimonides  were  burned  at  the  stake 
in  Paris  and  Montpelliers.  From  the  conduct  of  these  fanatics 
towards  that  lion  of  Israel  (they  themselves  avowed  that  he 
was  infinitely  superior  to  them  in  science  and  learning)  we  can 
conceive  their  terrible  vengeance  against  an  ordinary  man  or 
scholar  when  he  ventured  to  express  opinions  in  any  degree  at 
variance  with  their  own,  or  to  transgress  the  Sabbath  by  carry- 
ing a  handkerchief  or  drinking  of  Gentile  wine,  which  in  their 
opinion  is  against  the  law.  Who,  then,  could  resist  their  ter- 
rible weapon  of  excommunication,  which  they  used  for  the  pur- 
pose of  making  a  man  a  ravenous  wolf  whom  every  human  being 
fled  from  and  shunned  as  though  plague-smitten?  Many  who 
drank  of  that  bitter  cup  were  driven  to  the  grave,  and  many 
others  went  mad.  But  woe  to  the  excommunicators  if  the 
excommunicated  afterward  received  baptism  from  the  Domini- 
cans !  Then  the  vengeance  of  those  who  had  been  banished  was 
fearful;  like  serpents  they  stung  their  former  brethem,  and 
caused  misfortunes  to  thousands  of  souls  who  became  as  sheep 
for  the  slaughter. 

Thus  on  the  24th  of  July,  1240,  the  complete  Talmud  was 
brought  by  Donin  to  the  royal  palace,  and  R.  Jechiel,  who, 
because  of  the  fact  that  he  had  disputed  with  many  priests,  had 
been  elected  head  of  the  disputants,  was  asked  by  him,  in  the 
presence  of  the  king  and  the  whole  assembly,  whether  he  be- 
Heved  in  all  that  was  written  in  all  these  books,  now  more  than 
four  hundred  years  old.  To  this  R.  Jechiel  replied,  addressing 
the  king:  "Our  Tahnud  is  not  four  hundred  years  old,  but 
more  than  fifteen  hundred,  and  this  alone  suffices  to  prove  that 
the  controversy  concerning  what  is  said  in  it  is  superfluous; 


68  THE   HISTORY   OF  THE   TALMUD. 

for  up  to  this  time  there  have  been  Jewish  apostates  and  many 
learned  Christian  priests  who  were  conversant  with  its  con- 
tents and  found  no  evil  in  them.  "  Hieronymus,"  continued 
the  Rabbi,  "known  to  all  as  a  wise  and  devout  Christian  writer, 
who  was  familiar  with  Jewish  literature,  much  better  than 
this  apostate  sinner,  would  doubtless  have  sought  the  destruc- 
tion of  the  Talmud,  if  he  had  found  therein  such  terrible  things 
as  this  apostate  alleges.  Therefore  I  feel  sure  that  this  liar, 
who  seeks  our  lives,  will  never  attain  his  object;  he  may 
indeed  deprive  us  of  our  lives,  but  not  of  our  Torah,  dear  to  us 
as  the  pupil  of  our  eye.  If  you  vent  on  us  here  in  France  all 
your  anger,  still  will  the  Talmud  be  found  in  Spain,  Greece, 
Babylon,  Media  and  Mesopotamia,  in  possession  of  the  Jews  of 
these  countries,  and  there  you  cannot  reach  to  destroy  it." 
The  king  was  not  satisfied  with  this,  but  bade  R.  Jechiel  give 
a  direct  answer  to  Donin.  To  this  the  rabbi  answered  that 
the  moral  and  legal  doctrines  of  the  Talmud  were  held  sacred, 
but  that  full  credence  need  not  be  given  to  the  Hagada,  which 
should  not  be  taken  too  literally,  since  it  is  for  the  most 
part  allegorical.  The  Ramban  gave  expression  to  a  like 
opinion,  but  it  would  be  superfluous  to  quote  him  entire.  To 
the  other  accusations  of  Donin,  that  the  Talmud  terms  the 
followers  of  Jesus  Christ  "Minim"  (infidels),  that  it  condemns 
Jesus,  that  it  allows  ill-usage  of  people  of  other  nationalities, 
etc.,  he  replied :  "  In  the  Talmud  there  is  no  mention  of  Jesus 
(Jesu)  Christ,  but  only  of  another  Jesus  (Jeshua)  who  was  a 
disciple  of  R.  Joshua  b.  Prachia,  who  lived  two  hundred  years 
before  Christ ;  that  the  term  '  Minim '  in  the  Talmud  includes 
all  who  deny  the  Oral  Lav/ ;  that  it  grants  equality  before  the 
civil  law  to  all  men,  idolators  included,  and  commands  visita- 
tion of  sick  idolators,  support  of  their  poor,  and  interment  of 
their  dead  even  in  Jewish  cemeteries.  He  also  proved  that 
according  to  the  Talmud ,  the  Christians  are  not  included  among 
idolators,  since  the  prohibition  as  to  sharing  in  divine  power  is 
directed  only  to  Israel  and  has  not  been  enjoined  on  other 
people;  and,  moreover,  since  the  Christians  abhor  idolators, 
they  cannot  themselves  be  counted  among  them.  There  is  no 
distinction  drawn  between  them  and  Jews  by  the  criminal 
laws  of  all  civilized  lands,"  as  well  as  in  the  Talmud.  (See  App. 
No.  15.) 


RELIGIOUS   DISPUTES.  6^ 

Thas  two  days  passed  in  disputing  with  R.  Jechiel,  whose 
replies  were  written  down  by  a  disciple  and  collected  later  in  a 
book,  "Joseph  Ham'qane"  (The  Zealot).  On  the  third  day, 
R.  Jehudah  b.  David,  having  been  prohibited  from  holding 
intercourse  with  R.  Jechiel  the  first  two  days,  was  called  to  the 
dispute,  and  when  his  assertions  were  foiind  to  agree  with  those 
of  R.  Jechiel,  the  controversy  came  to  an  end. 

The  second  dispute  which  must  be  noted  is  that  started  by 
the  apostate  Pablo  Christiani,  in  July,  1263,  with  the  rabbis  of 
Spain.  This  was  the  reverse  of  the  previous  dispute,  in  that 
the  first  charged  the  Talmud  with  despising  Jesus  and  Chris- 
tians, while  this  dispute  endeavored  to  prove  from  the  Talmud 
itself  the  Messiahship  of  Jesus ;  Pablo  claiming  that  the  book 
contained  many  such  passages.  Rabbi  Moses  ben  Nachmani 
(Ramban)  was  selected  as  disputant.  This  controversy  also 
took  place  in  the  royal  palace  in  Barcelona,  and  lasted  four 
days.  The  principal  topics  for  discussion  were :  Whether  the 
Messiah  had  already  appeared  or  was  still  expected ;  whether 
he  would  appear  as  a  warrior,  to  restore  the  kingdom  of  the 
Jews,  or  as  God's  son,  as  Jesus.  The  passage,  "the  sceptre 
shall  not  depart  from  Judah  until  Shiloh  come"  (which  the 
Jews  also  understand  as  referring  to  a  Messiah),  Pablo  adduced 
as  proof  that  after  the  destruction  of  the  Temple  and  the  fall 
of  the  Jewish  kingdom  it  must  of  necessity  be  considered  that 
the  Messiah  had  arrived.  Again,  the  Talmud  itself  says,  "  The 
Messiah  was  bom  when  the  Temple  was  destroyed,"  and  "  Eli- 
jah said  to  R.  Joshua  the  son  of  Levi,  The  Messiah  sits  at  the 
gates  of  Rome,  among  the  sick,"  etc. 

Thereupon  Nachmani  addressed  the  king.  "Know,"  said 
he,  "we  possess  three  different  books;  before  every  other,  the 
Bible,  in  which  we  implicitly  believe ;  then  the  Talmud,  which 
we  hold  sacred  as  an  indispensable  commentary  on  the  biblical 
laws;  but  the  third  book,  which  we  call  Midrash,  comprises 
mere  sermons  or  speeches,  which  are  listened  to  by  the  Jews 
but  which  exercise  no  authority  over  them.  "The  Hagada," 
he  continued,  "is,  as  its  name  indicates,  a  mere  collection  of 
legends,  fiction,  a  creation  of  fancy,  communicated  by  one  per- 
son to  another,  but  not  held  by  the  Jews  as  dogma,  and  which 
I  myself  do  not  believe."  Then  turning  to  Pablo,  "  I  will  reply 
directly  to  you  as  to  the  question  at  issue.     If  the  Talmud,  as 


70  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

you  assert,  regards  the  founder  of  your  church  as  the  true 
Messiah,  why  have  not  the  Talmudists  beheved  in  him?  Why 
did  they  not  avow  him,  as  3'ou,  Pablo,  have  done?  For  five 
hundred  years  have  men  been  at  work  on  the  Talmud,  and 
none  had  been  convinced  or  induced  to  enter  the  church. 
Where,"  he  asked  further,  "  is  it  to  be  found  in  the  Bible  or  the 
Talmud  that  the  Messiah  will  suffer  at  the  hands  of  men?  On 
the  contrary,  it  is  said  of  him,  "  He  will  reign  from  sea  to  sea," 
"Dwellers  of  the  desert  will  kneel  before  him"  and  "nations 
will  adore  him,"  which  certainly  was  not  the  case  with  your 
Messiah,  who,  by  the  way,  was  bom  long  before  the  destruction 
of  the  Temple  of  Jerusalem,  and  therefore  the  Talmudic  pass- 
age can  have  no  reference  to  him.  Rome  had  not  your  alleged 
Messiah  to  thank  for  its  greatness ;  on  the  contrary,  its  power 
and  dominion  gradually  declined  after  his  advent,  and  since  the 
birth  of  your  religion  a  new  creed,  the  world-dominating  Islam, 
has  arisen.  Further,  were  the  omens  and  prophecies  of  the 
Messianic  time  fulfilled  ?  Of  this  the  prophets  predicted  '  that 
homicidal  war  will  cease,  a  universal  peace  reign  in  the  world ; 
the  swords  will  be  beaten  ploughshares,  the  spears  into  pruning 
hooks,  and  the  harmless  animal  will  graze  by  the  side  of  the 
wild  one;'  that  '  no  injustice  will  occur,  a  moral  elevation  will 
ennoble  men,  God's  spirit  will  enlighten  all  peoples,  and  a  uni- 
versal purified  knowledge  will  be  introduced.'  But  since 
your  Messiah  appeared,  numberless  wars  have  disturbed  man- 
kind, justice,  morality,  and  brotherly  love  have  not  yet  become 
the  ruling  principles  of  the  world,  your  religious  truths  have  not 
satisfied  the  adherents  of  Islam,  and  one  God  does  not  as  yet 
reign  on  earth.  If  you  make  of  your  Messiah  a  God,  then  we 
cannot  believe  at  all  in  him.  The  Messiah  must  be,  according 
to  the  prophets,  a  man  'out  of  the  stem  of  Jesse' ;  he  must  be 
sprung  a  child  bom  of  ordinary  parents,  not  a  son  of  God  need 
he  be.  Nay,  the  passage  in  the  Talmud  which  you  bring  for- 
ward as  favoring  the  Messiahship  of  Jesus,  '  that  Messiah  sits 
on  God's  right,  and  Abraham  on  his  left,'  shows  him  not  to  be 
a  God,  else  could  not  the  Talmud  say  directly  after  this  '  that 
Abraham's  countenance  darkened  on  account  of  the  favor 
shown  the  Messiah.'  Were  he  God's  son,  surely  Abraham 
would  have  known  him  as  Divinity  and  have  yielded  to  him, 
with  no  feeling  of  jealousy,  the  first  place.     The  language  of 


RELIGIOUS   DISPUTES.  71 

the  Talmud  is  peculiar,  and  by  its  assertion  that  the  Messiah 
was  bom  with  the  Temple's  destruction  must  be  imderstood 
the  revival  among  the  Jews,  through  this  barbarity  and  in- 
justice, of  the  hope  of  a  Messiah.  They  assuredly  do  not 
accept  him  as  Messiah  who  saw  the  light  of  day  fully  a  hundred 
years  before  this  event,  and  who,  in  spite  of  his  sufferings, 
brought  to  the  world  neither  salvation  nor  redemption.  And 
how  stands  it  with  your  assumption  that  your  Messiah  re- 
deemed the  world  from  original  sin  ?  The  penalties  decreed  for 
that  sin  still  exist.  Women  still  suffer  pain  in  childbirth ;  in 
the  sweat  of  the  brow  must  the  ground  be  ploughed,  and  Death 
still  thins  the  hosts  of  the  living — evils  which,  according  to 
your  construction  of  the  Bible,  result  only  from  original  sin. 
As  to  the  passage  quoted  by  you  from  the  Bible,  this  is  its 
significance:  'The  sceptre  shall  not  depart  from  Judah  eter- 
nally'— ad  being  equivalent  to  load  (forever).  The  clear 
meaning  of  this  is  that  Judah' s  dependence,  if  he  be  con- 
demned to  it,  will  not  last  forever,  for  the  Messiah  will  come 
and  restore  to  him  his  independence ;  simply,  that  he  ivill  ap- 
pear, but  is  not  yet  come.  For  the  rest,"  continued  Nach- 
mani,  "  I  do  not  long  for  the  Messiah.  With  us  it  is  accounted 
as  of  greater  merit  if  we,  living  in  foreign  lands,  among  strange 
people,  and  under  the  protection  of  the  king,  worship  our  God, 
than  if  we,  as  free  masters,  adhere  to  the  law  in  our  own  land." 
Pablo  was  no  match  to  Nachmani  and  his  striking  proofs. 
The  next  Sunday,  King  Jacob  I.  of  Aragon  appeared  with 
Peflaforte  in  the  synagogue.  The  general  of  the  Dominicans 
resumed  the  dispute,  and  sought  to  prove  the  Trinity  by  the 
simile  of  wine,  which  also  contains  a  trinity  in  it,  color,  flavor 
and  odor,  and  yet  is  one  thing.  Nachmani,  however,  refuted 
him,  and  demonstrated  that  to  accept  this  argument  would  be 
to  assume  also  a  fifth  person  in  God.  Peflaforte  became  per- 
plexed and  replied  that  the  Trinity  is  so  deep  a  mystery  that 
the  angels  are  tmable  to  comprehend  it.  When  Nachmani 
had  asked  the  modest  question,  "Why,  then,  should  men  raise 
themselves  above  the  angels  to  dispute  about  and  to  hold  fast 
to  so  deep  a  mystery?"  The  king  dismissed  him  with  rich 
presents,  adding  these  strange  words:  "I  have  never  yet  heard 
a  wrong  cause  so  masterfully  defended."  Nevertheless, 
Nachmani    was    banished.     He    did    not,    as    contemporary 


72  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

ecclesiastical  chronicles  affirm,  flee  in  deep  shame,  but  was 
expatriated  through  the  intrigues  of  the  clergy,  and  emigrated 
to  Palestine,  which,  in  his  opinion,  should  be  a  Mecca  for  every 
Jew,  and  arrived  there  shortly  after  Jerusalem  had  been  re- 
duced to  ashes  by  the  Mongols.  There  he  continued  his  labors 
in  behalf  of  Judaism  and  compiled  his  commentary  on  the 
Bible.  To  his  disciples  whom  he  left  behind  it  is  related  that 
he  said,  on  their  asking  of  him  a  sign  of  the  day  of  his  death, 
that  his  mother's  grave  stone  would  be  rent  in  twain. 

After  seeing,  however,  that  the  dispute  led  to  no  satisfac- 
tory results,  and  that  Nachmani  and  other  Jews  were  not  con- 
vinced by  the  argument  of  "no  salvation  outside  the  church," 
Pcflaforte  changed  his  tactics  and  impeached  the  Talmud 
before  Pope  Clement  IV.,  claiming  that  it  abused  and  blas- 
phemed the  founder  of  the  church.  The  Pope  appointed  a  com- 
mittee to  examine  the  matter,  and  on  their  adverse  report  the 
obnoxious  passages  were  stricken  out,  the  erasing  stylus  was 
drawn  through  the  pages  of  the  Talmud  by  ignorant  Domini- 
cans, and  for  the  first  time  it  was  subjected  to  the  fudgement 
of  a  censor.  What  a  sad  concurrence  of  historic  events! 
Twenty  years  later  the  writings  of  Maimonides  were  again 
consigned  to  the  stake  at  Acco  through  the  efforts  of  the  Kab- 
balistic  fanatic  Solomon  Petit;  in  Tiberia  the  tombstone  of 
]\Ioses  b.  Maimon,  the  greatest  thinker  to  whom  Judaism  had 
given  birth  in  a  thousand  years,  was  shamefully  dishonored 
and  its  epitaph  replaced  by  the  words ;  "  Here  rests  an  excom- 
municated heretic." 

Of  far  more  importance  were  the  attacks  on  Judaism  and 
the  Talmud  in  the  dispute  which  took  place  at  Tortosa,  in 
Aragon,  in  141 3,  under  the  supervision  of  Pope  Benedict  XIII., 
and  which  required  no  less  than  sixty-eight  sessions.  Long 
before  this  time  the  Jews  had  held  polemics  with  Christian 
scholars,  and  the  Jewish  literature  in  defense  of  the  faith 
which  had  been  current  in  the  thirteenth  century,  and  which 
included  also  attacks  on  Christian  dogma,  was  now  in  full 
bloom.  Raymond  Martin,  a  Dominican  Hebraist  and  one  of 
the  censors  of  the  Talmud  appointed  by  the  Pope,  who  treated 
the  Talmud  with  comparative  leniency,  wrote  against  Judaism 
two  hostile  books  under  the  titles  "  Religious  Dagger"  (Dagger 
of  Faith)  and  "Scourge  for  the  Jews,"  wherein  argimients  in 


RELIGIOUS   DISPUTES.  73 

favor  of  Christianity  were  adduced  both  from  Scripture  and 
from  rabbinical  writings.  These  books  were  imposing  not  less 
from  their  powerful  logic  than  from  their  exhibition  of  pro- 
found scholarship,  and  the  renowned  Talmudist,  R.  Solomon 
b.  Adereth,  was  called  to  refute  them.  The  apostate  Abner 
Alfonso  Burgensis,  a  polemic  of  more  danger  to  Judaism,  at 
the  commencement  of  the  fourteenth  century,  wrote  a  number 
of  controversial  works  against  his  former  religion,  to  whom 
Isaac  Pulgar  replied  with  a  trenchant  satirical  poem  as  well 
as  an  argumentative  work.  In  1375,  Moses  Kohen  de  Torde- 
sillas  disputed  in  the  church  at  Avilla  with  the  renegade  John 
of  Valladolid,  and  soon  after  this  proselytizing  cardinal  Pedro 
^e  Cima  challenged  Shem  Teb  b.  Isaac  Shoprat  to  a  public 
religious  discussion.  The  latter  published  in  1380,  a  compre- 
hensive defensive  work,  "  Eben  Bochan,"  and  also  translated  the 
Gospels  into  Hebrew  to  enable  his  co-religionists  to  arm  them- 
selves from  the  Christian  arsenal;  they  subsequently  foimd 
themselves  obliged  to  use  these  weapons  only  too  often.  In 
1 39 1  occurred  the  first  great  persecution  of  the  Jews  in  Spain, 
during  which  many,  to  escape  the  sword,  embraced  Christianity. 
Whereas  the  greater  part  of  those  who  were  forced  into  con- 
version usually  returned  to  the  fold  of  Judaism,  some  of  these 
new  Christians  were,  conversely,  possessed  by  a  great  zeal  for 
proselytizing,  as,  for  example,  the  physician  Astruc  Raimuch, 
and  particularly  the  former  rabbi,  Paul  Burgensis,  the  latter 
of  whom  was  a  source  of  much  mischief  to  his  people.  The 
satirical  poet,  Solomon  Bonfed,  the  ingenious  thinker  Chasdai 
Crescas,  the  physician  and  philosopher,  Profiat  Duran,  indited 
convincing  replies  to  the  attacks  of  these  apostates.  But  in 
the  foremost  rank  of  these  polemic  writings  stands  the  circular 
letter  of  Joshua  Lorqui,  which  he  addressed  in  an  apparently 
submissive  tone  to  his  former  teacher,  Paul  Burgensis,  where- 
in, along  with  keen  attacks  on  Christian  dogma,  he  tells  Bur- 
gensis that  as  a  thinking  and  learned  man  he  could  not  have 
accepted  Christianity  through  conviction.  When  one  reads 
this  letter  he  must  hold  it  almost  a  psychological  impossibility 
that  the  man  who  adopted  such  an  attitude  towards  Christian- 
ity should  in  later  years  have  gone  over  to  the  Christian  church 
and  become  a  scourge  to  his  co-rehgionists  of  the  Jewish  faith ; 
and  yet  this  Joshua  Corqui  was,  with  scarcely  a  doubt,  identical 


74  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

with  him  who  later  assumed  the  name  of  Geronimo  Santa  Fe, 
and  came  forward  to  impeach  Judaism  and  the  Talmud  at  the 
dispute  in  Tortosa. 

Benedict  XIII.,  one  of  the  three  popes  who  were  then  striv- 
ing for  dominion,  had  a  particular  interest  in  this  dispute.  This 
pope  had  been  deposed  at  the  Council  of  Pisa  as  a  heretic  and 
perjurer,  and  had  been  excommimicated ;  in  Spain,  however, 
he  was  recognized  as  pope,  and  from  that  place  he  set  in  motion 
his  plans  to  make  himself  universally  recognized.  If  he  could 
succeed  in  breaking  the  obstinacy  of  the  Jews  and  effecting 
finally  their  conversion  as  a  people,  it  would  be  a  great  triumph 
for  the  church,  and  for  himself  personally.  From  these  motives 
he  willingly  permitted  King  Fernando  of  Aragon  to  invite 
Jewish  rabbis  and  scholars  to  a  theological  discussion  at  Tor- 
tosa. Sixteen  of  the  most  prominent  appeared  at  that  mem- 
orable dispute,  which  lasted,  with  many  interruptions,  from 
February,  141 3,  till  November,  1414.  The  apostate  Geronimo, 
the  physician-in-ordinary  of  the  pope,  had  arranged  previously 
the  following  programme  for  the  controversy.  First  he  de- 
sired to  prove  from  the  Talmud  that  the  Messiah  must  already 
have  arrived.  Should  this  argument  be  ineffectual,  however, 
then  a  war  to  the  death  was  to  be  declared  against  the  Talmud, 
which  sustains  the  Jews  in  their  unbelief.  When  the  Jewish 
notables  appeared  in  the  session  hall  on  the  first  day,  the  thou- 
sand there  assembled,  presided  over  by  the  pope  (who  was 
pompously  arrayed  and  seated  on  an  elevated  throne),  made 
upon  them  an  overwhelming  impression.  The  pope  himself 
opened  the  session  with  an  address,  wherein  he  laid  emphasis 
on  the  fact  that  the  question  now  was  not  as  to  the  truth  of 
Judaism  or  Christianity ;  Judaism  once  had  been  true,  but  was 
replaced  by  the  later  revelation.  The  discussion  must  turn 
only  on  the  point  whether,  according  to  the  Talmud,  Jesus  is 
the  promised  Messiah  or  not.  Thereupon,  Geronimo  delivered 
a  lengthy  speech,  which  he  concluded  with  the  text,  "  If  ye  be 
willing  and  obey,  ye  shall  eat  the  good  of  the  land ;  but  if  ye 
refuse  and  rebel,  ye  shall  be  devoured  by  the  sword."  In  his 
reply,  Don  Vidal  Benvenisti  placed  the  apostate's  wickedness 
in  its  true  light,  inasmuch  as  he  had  threatened  with  the  sword 
before  any  proof  for  or  against  had  been  brought.  In  the  sub- 
sequent sessions,  Geronimo  cited  passages,  more  or  less  famil- 


RELIGIOUS   DISPUTES.  75 

iar,  from  the  Talmud  and  Midrash,  to  prove  to  the  unbeHevers 
that  the  Talmud  itself,  when  rightly  understood,  attested 
Jesus'  Messiahship.  But  as  the  representatives  of  the  Jews 
explained  these  passages  according  to  their  real  meaning,  and 
at  the  expiration  of  sixty-two  sessions  evinced  not  the  slightest 
inclination  to  be  converted,  Geronimo,  at  the  pope's  bidding, 
came  forth  as  impeacher  of  the  Talmud,  asserting  that  it  con- 
tained blasphemies  and  abominations  of  all  kinds  and  must 
therefore  be  unconditionally  condemned.  To  prove  this,  he 
wickedly  or  ignorantly  perverted  many  passages.  The  Hal- 
akha  teaches,  for  example,  in  relation. to  the  verse  in  Exodus 
xxi.  15,  "  He  that  smiteth  his  father  or  his  mother  shall  be  put 
to  death,"  that  he  only  is  guilty  of  death  who  wounds  his 
parent  by  beating ;  from  this  Geronimo  inferred  that  the  Tal- 
mud allows  the  beating  of  parents.  The  Halakha  also  teaches 
in  reference  to  blasphemy  that  "only  he  who  blasphemes  God 
by  his  name  of  four  letters  (Jehovah)  is  guilty  of  death,"  and 
from  this  Geronimo  concluded  that  the  Talmud  permits  blas- 
phemy. Geronimo  was  also  the  first  to  affirm  that  the  Jews 
may  break  oaths,  in  conformity  to  the  prayer  "Kol-Nidre." 
Every  one  at  all  familiar  with  this  prayer  knows  that  it  is  for 
forgiveness  for  the  non-fulfillment  of  vows  and  oaths,  taken 
unconsciously  or  broken  through  forgetfulness,  and  is  but  an 
argument  in  favor  of  the  Talmud's  scrupulousness  in  this 
matter.  The  Jewish  delegates  defended  themselves,  it  is  true, 
with  skill  against  these  accusations,  but  were  finally  so  hard 
pressed  that  they  divided  into  two  parties.  Most  declared 
that  the  passages  of  the  Hagada  brought  forward  by  Geronimo 
had  no  authority ;  whereas  Don  Vidal  Benvenisti  and  the  relig- 
ious philosopher  Joseph  Albo  declared  that  the  Hagada  was 
held  by  them  as  of  full  authority,  but  must  not  be  construed 
literally  and  then  judged.  At  all  events,  the  pope  did  not 
succeed  in  causing  even  one  of  the  delegates  to  waver  or  in 
effecting  the  hoped-for  general  conversion  of  the  Jews.  Driven 
to  anger  at  his  failure,  he  dismissed  them  in  a  very  unfriendly 
manner,  and  soon  thereafter  issued  a  bull  in  which  he  inter- 
dicted the  reading  or  study  of  the  Taknud  by  the  Jews,  and 
ordered  that  search  be  made  for  copies  of  the  book  and  they 
be  then  destroyed.  He  also  directed  that  in  Spain  the  Jews 
should  live  separately  from  the  Christians,  fill  no  official  sta- 


76  THE   HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

tion,  practice  no  trade,  nor  devote  themselves  to  medicine. 
Fortunately  the  hostility  of  the  pope  had  no  effect.  The 
Council  of  Costnitz  deposed  him;  his  former  protectors,  King 
Fernando  and  Emperor  Sigismund,  renounced  his  cause,  and 
the  fanatic  Flagellator  and  preacher,  Vincent  Ferrer,  preached 
openly  "that  such  a  man  as  this  pope  deserved  to  be  persecuted 
to  the  utmost  and  to  be  killed  by  any  good  Christian."  Filled 
with  rage  at  the  issue  of  the  dispute,  Geronimo  published  later 
a  voluminous  book  against  the  Talmud,  and  the  apostate  Paul 
Burgensis,  who  was  elevated  to  the  bishopric,  composed  in  his 
eightieth  year,  a  work  hostile  to  Jews  and  Judaism.  To  these 
and  similar  attacks  the  Jews  were  free  as  yet  to  reply  without 
restriction.  Answers  were  published  by  Joseph  Albo,  Vidal 
ibn  Lobi,  and  Josegh  ibn  Shemtob,  defending  their  own  creed 
and  winging  arrows  at  Christian  dogmas  also.  Several  dec- 
ades later  the  Jews  of  Spain  were  attacked  not  with  the  pen, 
but  with  the  fist,  not  with  spiritual  weapons,  but  with  physical 
force,  and  met  with  bloody  persecutions  till  finally,  in  the  total 
exile  of  1492,  the  proud  Spanish  Jews  were  compelled  to  empty 
the  cup  of  misery  to  the  dregs. 

CHAPTER  XIV. 

REUCHLIN,  PFEFFERKORN,  AND  THE  TALMUD  IN  THE  SIX- 
TEENTH AND  SEVENTEENTH  CENTURIES. 

Joseph  or  John  Pfefferkom  was  a  German  Jew,  who  lived  in 
the  beginning  of  the  sixteenth  century.  He  was  ignorant  of 
worldly  knowledge,  and  had  but  a  very  limited  acquaintance 
with  Jewish  literature.  He  became  a  Roman  Catholic  to  es- 
cape the  penalty  for  a  theft.  The  Dominican  monks  of  Cologne, 
surbordinate  to  Hochstrater,  the  Judge  of  the  Inquisition,  re- 
ceived him  into  their  community  with  great  honor.  Hoch- 
strater was  a  great  fanatic  and  the  enemy  of  every  one  who  bore 
the  name  of  Jew.  His  colleagues  were  Arnold  Tangersky  and 
Arthurin  Gracia.  This  latter  had  committed  to  a  Jewish  apos- 
tate, Victor  Karbensky  (1504  a.  c),  the  task  of  writing  a  pam- 
phlet against  Judaism.  In  this  pamphlet  the  author  brings 
various  accusations  against  the  Jewish  people,  the  responsibility 
for  which  he  places  on  the  Talmud.     He  recounts  fabulous 


REUCHLIN,   PFEFFERKORN,   AND  THE  TALMUD.     77 

charges  of  Jewish  persecution  of  apostates,  and  complains  that 
even  the  poorest  and  most  criminal  and  hardened  Jews  subject 
themselves  to  all  manner  of  hardships  rather  than  embrace 
Christianity.  The  pamphlet  concludes  with  these  words: 
"  All  this  is  due  to  the  Talmud,  which  is  the  source  of  all  evil, 
and  which  the  Jews  hold  in  greater  reverence  than  the  ten  com- 
mandments of  God."  The  Dominican  monks  found  that  this 
pamphlet  failed  of  due  effect,  and  asked  Pfefferkom  if  he  could 
write  a  better  one.  He  wrote  the  "  Wamungsspiegel "  (The 
Mirror  of  Warning),  wherein  he  pretended  to  be  a  friend  of  the 
Jewish  people,  and,  for  their  own  good,  desired  to  introduce 
Christianity  among  them.  He  urged  them  to  convince  the 
Christian  world  that  the  Jews  do  not  need  Christian  blood  for 
their  religious  rites.  He  also  tried  to  induce  his  Christian 
brethren  not  to  persecute  the  Jews  imto  destruction;  for,  he 
said,  the  Jews  are  also,  in  a  way,  himian  beings.  Along  with 
these  pretences  of  friendliness  he  evinces  in  the  pamphlet  the 
desire  (and  in  this  he  was  seconded  by  the  Dominican  monks) 
to  take  the  Talmud  by  force  from  the  Jews.  ' '  The  causes  which 
Ainder  the  Jews  from  becoming  Christians,"  said  Pfefferkom, 
"are  three:  first,  usury;  second,  because  they  are  not  com- 
pelled to  attend  Christian  churches  to  hear  the  sermons;  and 
third,  because  they  honor  the  Talmud."  Therefore  he  appealed 
to  his  co-religionists  and  the  rulers  to  remove  the  first  two 
causes ;  as  to  the  third,  he  advised  the  government  to  take  the 
Talmud  from  the  Jews  and  bum  it.  But  even  this  pamphlet 
was  not  wholly  successful,  because  the  rulers  and  the  people 
understood  that  depriving  the  Jews  of  the  Talmud  would  inure 
to  the  benefit,  financially,  of  the  Dominicans ;  for  these  latter, 
being  the  Judges  of  the  Inquisition,  possessed  the  power  of  de- 
claring the  books  harmless  and  of  returning  them  to  the  Jews 
for  a  consideration.  Therefore  Pfefferkom  hastened  to  issue 
another  pamphlet,  in  which  he  used  harsher  expressions,  and 
tried  to  convince  the  people  that  the  hatred  of  the  Jews  for 
Christianity  was  due  solely  to  their  religious  books.  He  issued 
also  a  third  pamphlet,  on  Jewish  history,  in  which  he  con- 
tradicted what  he  had  written  in  his  first  pamphlet.  He  said 
plainly  that  every  Jew  considers  it  a  good  deed  to  kill,  or  at 
least  to  mock,  a  Christian ;  therefore  he  deemed  it  the  duty  of 
all  tme  Christians  to  expel  the  Jews  from  all  Christian  lands ; 


78  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

even  if  the  law  should  forbid  such  a  deed,  they  need  not  heed 
or  obey  it  in  this  respect.  "It  is  the  duty  of  the  people,"  he 
said,  "to  ask  permission  of  the  rulers  to  take  from  the  Jews  all 
their  books  except  the  Bible,"  as  well  as  all  the  pledges  of 
Christians  to  be  found  in  Jewish  hands;  also,  that  Jewish 
children  should  be  taken  away  from  their  parents  and  educated 
in  the  Catholic  religion.  He  concluded  his  work  thus:  "Who 
afflicts  the  Jews  is  doing  the  will  of  God,  and  who  seeks  their 
benefit  will  incur  damnation," 

Although  the  religious  hatred  of  the  times  of  the  Crusades 
was  then  far  from  extinguished,  Pfefferkom's  books  did  not 
find  favor  with  the  rulers,  as  the  Jews  were  their  chief  treas- 
urers, from  whom  they  at  all  times  exacted  enormous  taxes. 
Therefore  they  did  not  desire  to  drive  them  fron  their  terri- 
tories; and  to  compel  them  to  embrace  Christianity  did  not 
suit  them  either,  as  most  of  the  Christians  disliked  Jewish 
apostates  and  looked  upon  them  disdainfully  since  they  well 
knew  that  in  most  instances  they  did  not  accept  Christianity 
through  belief  in  the  religion,  but  from  more  worldly  reasons. 
In  addition  to  this,  all  the  Jews  of  Germany,  as  also  the  physi- 
cians of  the  rulers,  who  were  for  the  greater  part  Jews,  did  all 
in  their  power  to  prevent  Pfefferkom's  advice  from  being 
carried  into  execution.  Many  Christians,  too,  asserted  that 
they  were  convinced  that  Pfefferkorn  was  bad  at  heart,  a 
flatterer,  and  that  his  sole  object  was  to  enrich  himself  at 
the  expense  of  the  Jews.  Therefore  Pfefferkom  wrote  a  fourth 
pamphlet,  in  which  he  reiterated  all  he  had  written  previously, 
and  declared  that  the  only  way  to  be  rid  of  the  Jews  was 
either  to  expel  or  enslave  them ;  the  first  thing  to  be  done  was 
to  collect  all  the  copies  of  the  Talmud  foimd  among  the  Jews 
and  to  bum  them.  Arthurin  Gracia,  who  was  the  Censor  of 
Art,  revised  and  corrected  Pfefferkom's  works  and  rendered 
them  into  Latin  and  German,  and  sent  them  to  all  the  rulers 
of  the  period.  Besides  this,  the  Dominicans  addressed  them- 
selves to  the  sister  of  the  Emperor  Maximilian,  Princess  Kuni- 
gunde,  who  was  a  nun  in  a  Dominican  convent  at  Munich. 
They  begged  her  to  intercede  with  the  Emperor  in  behalf  of 
Pfefferkom.  They  eulogized  Pfefferkom,  telling  her  of  his 
knowledge  of  Jewish  life  and  of  his  good  character,  and  urged 
her  to  confide  in  him.     Finally  they  persuaded  her  to  give  a 


REUCHLIN,  PFEFFERKORN,  AND  THE  TALMUD.  79 

copy  of  his  pamphlet  to  the  emperor,  who  was  then  at  war  in 
Italy  with  the  Venetians.  As  a  result  of  all  this,  Pfefferkom  at 
once  set  out  for  Italy,  and  succeeded  in  obtaining  from  the 
emperor  a  decree  that  all  the  Jews  of  Germany  should  yield 
up  their  books  to  him  (Pfefferkom),  to  be  revised  by  him; 
if  he  should  find  in  them  anything  relating  to  Christianity, 
it  should  be  destroyed.  In  this  task  he  was  granted  the  power 
to  call  to  his  assistance,  in  each  city,  a  priest  and  two  of  the 
civic  rulers.  The  Jews  were  warned  under  severe  penalty  not 
to  resist  the  royal  command. 

Pfefferkom  and  his  party  of  inquisitors  first  visited  Magde- 
burg, for  in  that  city  dwelt  rabbis  who  were  renowned  through- 
out the  Jewish  world;  and  although  they  resorted  to  every 
device  to  prevent  the  surrender  of  their  literary  treasures — 
even  the  Bible,  the  removal  of  which  was  not  included  in  the 
royal  mandate,  was  also  taken  away — every  Jew  was  com- 
pelled to  surrender  his  entire  store  of  religious  books. 

But  many  Gentile  scholars,  to  whom  Pfefi^erkom's  conduct 
did  not  appeal,  assisted  the  Jews  by  testifying  before  the 
emperor  that  Pfefl;crkorn  was  ignorant  on  many  subjects, 
and  that  he  wrongfully  deprived  the  Jews  of  books  contain- 
ing no  allusions  to  Christianity;  besides,  they  referred,  in 
their  request  to  the  emperor,  to  the  privileges  accorded  to  the 
Jews,  by  previous  emperors  and  popes,  of  worshiping  in  their 
own  way.  The  Elector  of  Mayence,  Archbishop  Uriel,  en- 
raged at  Pfefferkom' s  action  (we  cannot  learn  why),  simi- 
moned  him  to  the  city  of  Aschaffenburg,  and  informed  him 
that  the  emperor's  decree  was  in  opposition  to  the  law  of  the 
land,  as  it  made  him  prosecutor,  witness,  judge,  and  executor 
in  one ;  therefore,  the  Jews  or  the  people,  in  disregarding  the 
decree,  would  be  guilty  of  no  crime  against  the  law.  He 
coimselled  him,  in  fine,  to  ask  the  emperor  to  alter  the  mandate 
to  conform  with  law.  Pfefferkom  agreed  to  do  so,  and  the 
Dominicans  of  Cologne  advised  him  to  find  a  prominent  Gentile 
who  would  actively  interest  himself  in  the  matter.  This  man 
they  foimd  in  Reuchlin,  at  that  time  very  popular  and  respected 
all  over  the  world.  The  Dominicans  told  Pfefferkom  to  get  a 
letter  from  Reuchlin  to  the  emperor,  before  going  again  to  see 
the  latter. 

John   Reuchlin,   of   Paszheim   (145 5-152 2),   had  a  great 


8o  THE   HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

reputation  as  a  scholar;  in  addition  he  had  a  benevolent 
heart.  He  devoted  himself  especially  to  the  study  of  Hebrew, 
in  which  his  interest  was  enhanced  by  Count  Pick  de  Marsun- 
della,  who  opened  up  to  him  the  study  of  Kabbala,  i.e.,  Jewish 
mysticism.  Even  this  did  not  satisfy  his  desire  to  be  master 
of  Hebrew.  He  formed  the  acquaintance  of  Jacob  Laanson, 
a  Jewish  physician  at  the  Court  of  Frederick  III.,  from  whom 
he  acquired  a  further  knowledge  of  the  language ;  at  this  court 
he  came  in  contact  with  many  Jewish  scholars,  and  attained 
to  such  skill  in  the  study  that  he  afterwards  wrote  a  book  where- 
in he  praised  Hebrew  as  the  best  of  all  languages.  He  claimed 
in  this  work  that  the  dogmas  and  rites  of  false  religions  were 
due  to  the  ignorance  of  Hebrew,  and  to  the  misconception  of 
the  meaning  of  significant  Hebrew  terms.  As  for  the  Kabbala, 
he  ranked  this  study  with  any  other  branch  of  learning,  and 
stated  that  he  himself  was  far  from  understanding  thoroughly 
its  sublime  mysteries,  for  a  complete  knowledge  of  which  even 
a  lifetime  would  scarce  suffice.  Afterwards,  when  he  became 
the  Ambassador  of  the  Elector  Palatine  to  the  Court  of  Pope 
Alexander  VI.,  he  became  acquainted  with  the  physician 
Obadiah  Eipminah,  the  renowned  commentator  on  the  Mishna ; 
and  it  was  interesting  to  see  the  celebrated  German  scholar, 
whose  discourses  in  Italian  were  greatly  admired  by  the  Italians 
themselves,  stooping  to  ask  a  Jew  to  be  his  teacher  of  Hebrew 
literature.  It  was  always  his  habit,  when  he  came  in  contact 
with  learned  Jews,  to  obtain  some  useful  knowledge  from  them. 

Nevertheless,  Reuchlin  was  not  entirely  free  from  prejudice 
against  those  of  the  Jewish  faith.  In  a  letter  to  a  knight  who 
desired  to  convert  the  Jews  of  his  dominions  to  Christianity, 
he  wrote  that  the  whole  trouble  with  the  Jews  was  they  were 
disbelievers,  who  did  not  care  for  Christ  and  his  apostles, and 
that  they  held  in  general  contempt  all  Christians ;  although  it 
is  true  that  later  he  repented  of  having  written  this  letter,  as 
will  be  seen  further  on. 

The  Dominicans  relied  on  Reuchlin,  knowing  that  the 
words  of  one  so  throughly  acquainted  with  Hebrew  literature 
would  be  respected  by  all  the  rulers  of  Germany.  But  Reuchlin 
declined  to  take  an  active  part  in  the  matter,  although  he  com- 
mended the  project  of  destroying  all  books  written  against 
Christianity.     He  also  called  PfefEerkom's  attention  to  the 


REUCHLIN,   PFEFFERKORN,   AND  THE   TALMUD.     Si 

injustice  of  the  emperor's  decree,  and  told  him  it  was  doubtful 
whether  it  could  be  executed. 

Despite  his  not  securing  the  wished-for  testimony,  Pfeffer- 
kom  succeeded  in  persuading  the  emperor  to  ignore  the  peti- 
tions of  the  Jews  and  their  defenders,  and  to  give  him  the  power 
to  deprive  the  Jews  of  their  books,  in  a  new  decree,  while 
harshly  reproving  them  for  failing  to  strictly  obey  the  first. 
This  time  the  emperor  commissioned  Archbishop  Uriel  to 
carry  out  the  decree.  He  also  ordered  him  to  seek,  and  to 
follow  the  advice  of  the  German  imiversities  of  Cologne,  May- 
ence,  Erfurt  and  Heidelberg,  and  also  to  take  coimsel  with 
Reuchlin,  Victor  Karbensky  and  Hochstrater  (although  the 
latter  was  totally  ignorant  of  Hebrew).  Uriel  commanded 
the  director  of  the  University  of  Mayence,  Herman  Hess,  to 
visit  all  the  cities  of  Germany,  and  to  remove  all  the  Jewish 
books.  Hess  did  so.  He  travelled  through  Germany  accom- 
panied by  Pfefferkom ;  and  in  Frankfort  alone  fifteen  hundred 
manuscripts  were  taken  away  (printed  books  were  as  yet  rare). 
They  did  the  same  in  Worms,  Lorch,  Birgin,  Lamuven,  Mayence 
and  Dertz.  Pfefferkom  said  that  the  Jews,  to  save  their 
literary  treasures,  offered  to  enrich  him,  but  he  claimed  he  did 
not  care  to  sell  his  soul  and  therefore  did  his  duty. 

The  Jews  on  the  other  hand,  did  not  cease  in  their  efforts 
to  prevent  their  despoliation.  They  secured  testimonials  from 
the  more  prominent  among  the  Gentiles,  and  sent  a  committee 
to  the  emperor  to  petition  him  to  prevent  these  attacks  on 
their  religion.  They  adduced  proofs  to  show  that  their  books 
contained  nothing  against  Christian  communities.  They 
brought  forward  the  privileges  granted  to  them  by  former 
emperors  and  popes,  enabling  them  to  worship  their  God  with- 
out the  interference  of  the  Church  or  State.  These  facts  so 
favorably  impressed  the  emperor  that  he  commanded  that  all 
the  books  should  be  returned  to  their  owners.  The  joy  of  the 
Jews  on  learning  of  this  decree  cannot  be  described,  since 
thereby  not  only  were  they  granted  possession  of  their  books, 
but  a  peaceful  residence  in  Catholic  countries  was  accorded 
them. 

This  joy,  however,  was  only  momentary,  as  both  the  Do- 
minicans and  Pfefferkom  still  continued  their  malevolent 
activity.  To  add  to  the  misfortune  of  the  Jews,  an  event  befell 
6 


82  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

which  the  Dominicans  were  not  slow  to  utiHze  as  a  weapon  in 
their  warfare  against  the  faithful,  with  the  aid  of  which  they 
hoped  finally  to  bring  about  the  latter's  destruction.  Sacred 
vessels  were  stolen  from  a  Christian  church  by  a  Gentile,  who 
was  arrested  and  who  thereupon  confessed  that  he  had  sold 
them  to  the  Jews.  As  a  result,  all  Jews  were  severely  perse- 
cuted by  the  Bishop  of  Brandenburg.  At  the  same  time,  or 
somewhat  later,  the  Jews  were  accused  of  having  killed  a  Chris- 
tian child  in  the  performance  of  their  religious  rites,  and  at  the 
command  of  the  same  bishop  the  accused  Jews  were  removed 
to  Berlin,  and  thirty-eight  of  them  were  burned  at  the  stake 
after  suffering  tortures  on  the  rack. 

These  events  the  Dominicans  made  use  of  to  arouse  the 
fanaticism  of  the  people  of  Germany.  They  addressed  them- 
selves to  the  emperor's  sister,  Kunigunde,  to  whom  they 
painted  these  occurrences  in  the  blackest  colors,  at  the  same 
time  extolling  Pfefferkom  as  a  converted  Jew  conversant  with 
Jewish  customs  and  manners.  They  stated  that  the  Talmud 
contains  the  evil  teachings  which  had  become  rooted  in  the 
hearts  of  the  Jews.  They  represented  to  her  the  danger  to 
Catholicism  in  the  latest  command  of  the  emperor,  and  placed 
all  their  hopes  in  her  keeping,  as  she  was  the  only  one  who  could 
save  Catholicism  from  injury.  At  the  same  time  they  strove 
to  find  favor  in  the  eyes  of  the  people  who  protested  against 
this  persecution.  A  new  pamphlet  was  prepared,  in  Pfeffer- 
kom's  name,  which  was  dedicated  to  the  Emperor  Maxi- 
milian, praising  him  for  his  zeal  for  the  Catholic  religion. 
This  pamphlet,  after  complaining  that  the  Christians  do  not 
give  full  weight  to  the  activity  of  the  Jews  against  Catholicism, 
and  charging  that  the  whole  fault  lay  with  the  Talmud,  since 
its  teachings  prevented  the  Jews  from  embracing  Christianity 
and  permitted  usury,  affirmed  that  the  one  thing  necessary  was 
that  the  emperor  should  deprive  the  Jews  of  his  books,  and  that 
it  was  the  duty  of  all  good  Christians  to  help  him  in  this  matter, 
furthermore,  that  this  cause  met  the  approval  of  the  emperor's 
sister,  the  nun  Kunigunde.  It  further  stated  that  all  Christians 
who  defended  Jews  should  be  treated  as  heretics,  and  Jewish 
apostates  who  did  the  same  should  be  presumed  to  have  taken 
up  Christianity,  not  from  belief  in  the  Holy  Trinity,  but  for 
baser  reasons.     The  Princess  Kunigunde  actually  interceded 


REUCHLIN,   PFEFFERKORN,   AND  THE  TALMUD.     83 

for  them,  and,  presenting  herself  before  the  emperor,  she 
begged  him  on  her  knees  to  grant  the  request  of  the  Dominicans. 
The  emperor  again  ordered  Archbishop  Uriel  to  hasten  to  seek 
the  advice  of  the  above-mentioned  German  universities,  and 
especially  to  get  the  opinion  of  Reuchlin,  Karbensky  and  Hoch- 
strater,  and  transmit  the  same  to  him  (the  emperor) ,  so  that 
he  might  be  prepared  to  judge  whether  or  not  the  Talmud 
should  be  destroyed. 

Reuchlin  did  not  hasten  to  give  his  answer,  and  when,  after 
three  months  his  answer  was  composed,  and  delivered  to  the 
emperor,  it  was  found  to  be  unfavorable  to  Pfefferkom.  In 
this  answer  he  divided  Jewish  literature  into  six  classes,  ex- 
clusive of  the  Bible,  as  follows:  (i)  poetry,  fable  and  satire; 
(2)  commentaries;  (3)  sermons,  songs  and  prayers;  (4)  phi- 
losophy and  science ;  (5)  the  Talmud,  and  (6)  Kabbala.  "  In  the 
first  class,"  said  Reuchlin,  "are  to  be  found  books  which  deny 
or  criticize  the  Christian  religion;"  but  he  could  name  but  two 
of  them  of  his  own  knowledge,  and  these  were  the  pamphlet 
of  Lipman  (of  the  existence  of  which  we  have  no  records)  and 
the  life  of  Jesus.  He  declared,  however,  that  the  Rabbis  them- 
selves prohibit  the  possession  of  them  by  Jews  and  threaten 
severe  penalities  upon  any  one  venturing  to  read  them.  "It 
is  self-evident,"  he  stated,  "that  this  class  of  books  must  be 
destroyed  without  scruple." 

With  regard  to  the  second  class,  he  affirmed  that  they  not 
only  contain  nothing  harmful  to  Christianity,  but,  on  the  con- 
trary, they  are  of  great  value  in  the  interpretation  of  the  Scrip 
tures.  Many  Gentile  scholars,  could  not,  in  many  cases, 
fathom  the  depths  of  meaning  of  the  Bible,  because  of  insuffi- 
cient knowledge  of  Hebrew.  "  It  is  true, ' '  he  said, ' '  that  scholars 
had  been  heard  to  declare,  we  do  not  care  for  the  Jewish  com- 
mentaries, as  we  have  a  sufficient  number  by  Christians."  He 
compared  these  same  to  a  person  wearing  a  light  garment  in 
cold  weather,  since  the  basis  for  right  understanding  of  the 
Scriptures  is  the  knowledge  of  the  original  language  wherein 
they  were  written. 

"As  for  books  of  the  third  class,  it  would  be  an  injustice 
to  deprive  the  Jews  of  them,  because  they  had  received  from 
emperors  and  popes  the  privilege  of  unmolested  worship. 

"Regarding  the  fourth  class,"  he  said,  "they  stand  on  an 


84  THE   HISTORY   OF  THE   TALMUD. 

equal  footing  with  books  of  the  same  class  in  Latin,  Greek  or 
German.  But  of  the  Talmud  I  must  own  that  it  is  to  me  a 
sealed  book,  and  it  is  evident  that  those  who  pass  judgmen-fc 
upon  it  have  as  little  knowledge  of  it  as  L  They  have  no  idea 
of  its  nature ;  or  of  its  history ;  nevertheless  they  talk  as  if  they 
knew  and  understood  clearly  all  that  it  contains.  I  can  only 
compare  such  people  to  those  who  would  venture  to  criticise 
algebra  while  they  are  totally  ignorant  of  the  rudiments  of 
arithmetic.  The  fear  is  expressed  that  the  Talmud  might 
injure  Christianity;  this  is  absurd  for  nothing  can  withstand 
the  proofs  in  its  favor  that  are  found  in  the  Bible.  If  the  Tal- 
mud really  were  as  bad  as  they  afhrm,  then  our  ancestors,  who 
were  much  more  religious  than  we,  would  long  ago  have  put  an 
end  to  its  existence."  He  declared  that  the  testimony  of  Pfeff- 
erkom  and  Schwartz  against  it,  being  inspired  by  unworthy 
motives,  should  not  be  given  consideration.  "Moreover,  if 
we  would  but  study  the  Talmud  we  would  not  destroy  it,  but 
rather  encourage  the  Jews  to  hold  it  in  still  greater  reverence 
and  study  it  the  more  assiduously,  for  as  a  consequence  there 
would  be  copies  not  alone  in  Germany,  but  also  in  Italy  and 
Turkey,  where  many  colleges  for  its  study  exist.  To  what 
purpose  is  the  burning  of  a  few  copies  of  the  Talmud,  if  you  are 
imable  to  annihilate  it  entirely?  Besides,  by  such  action  we 
should  commit  a  breach  of  faith  for  we  would  thus  abrogate  the 
privileges  granted  to  them  by  former  emperors  and  popes." 

Regarding  the  sixth  class,  he  praised  the  Kabbala  in  the 
highest  terms,  and  cited  Count  Picko  de  Mirandella,  who,  he 
says,  induced  Pope  Sixtus  VI.  to  study  it ;  the  latter  discovered 
in  it  so  much  in  support  of  Christianity  that  he  translated 
Kabbalistic  books  into  Latin.  Reuchlin  concluded  that  to 
deprive  the  Israelites  of  their  books  could  only  be  likened  to  a 
duke  challenging  a  knight  to  combat  and  then  taking  away  his 
weapons.  He  advised  the  German  rulers  who  were  desirous 
of  having  the  Jews  embrace  Christianity,  to  establish  in  all  the 
German  universities  for  a  period  of  ten  years,  chairs  for  the 
study  of  the  Hebrew  language;  then  the  students  having  a 
thorough  knowledge  of  the  language,  could  convince  the  Jews, 
by  proofs  from  their  own  Bible,  of  the  truths  of  Christianity. 
Returning  again  to  the  apostates  (he  plainly  referred  to  Pfeff er- 
kom,  though  he  did  not  name  him),  he  said:  "Of  what  value 


REUCHLIN,   PFEFFERKORN,   AND   THE  TALMUD.     85 

is  advice  given  by  people  who  abandon  Judaism  through 
jealousy,  animosity,  fear  of  persecution,  penury,  revenge, 
ambition,  love  of  pleasure,  or  even  through  mere  recklessness? 
Such  individuals  bear  the  name  of  Christians,  but  in  heart  they 
are  not  Christians.  I  know  of  some  whose  faith  in  both  re- 
ligions, Christianity  and  Judaism,  is  weak,  and  who,  if  their 
schemes  were  brought  to  naught,  would  become  disciples  of 
Mohammedanism.  The  Jews  have  been  citizens  of  Germany 
for  three  centuries  and  should  be  protected  by  the  law.  It 
would  be  ridiculous  to  adjudge  them  heretics,  for  they  were  not 
bom  Christians,  but  have  been  Jews  from  a  time  antecedent 
to  the  birth  of  Christianity. 

However,  the  answer  of  the  German  universities  was  differ- 
ent. The  theological  faculty  of  Mayence  replied  that  not  only 
were  the  Talmud  and  all  rabbinical  books  full  of  falsehoods  and 
heresies,  as  Christian  scholars  testify  (the  faculty  themselves 
confessed  that  they  were  ignorant  of  the  Talmud  and  Hebrew), 
but  that  the  Hebrew  Bible  also  was  not  altogether  free  from 
error  on  points  of  Christian  doctrine.  The  faculty  deemed  it 
advisable,  therefore,  that  the  books  be  revised  by  Christian 
scholars,  and  if  anything  be  found  contrary  to  Christian  belief 
it  should  be  burned. 

The  University  of  Erfurt  coimselled  in  like  manner,  but 
the  Faculty  of  Heidelberg  advised  the  emperor  to  select  a 
committee  from  the  faculties  of  all  the  imiversities  of  Germany 
to  judge  the  Talmud  and  all  Jewish  literature,  and  let  their 
decision  be  final. 

Reuchlin  sent  his  answer  under  seal  to  Archbishop  Uriel, 
but  by  some  means  not  recorded  its  contents  became  known  to 
Pfefferkom  before  it  reached  the  emperor.  When  he  and  the 
Dominicans  had  perused  it  they  were  greatly  perturbed.  They 
were  aware  of  the  esteem  in  which  Reuchlin  was  held  by  the 
emperor,  and  the  weight  his  answer  would  be  given  to  by  the 
latter,  and  resolved  to  do  something  to  weaken  the  effect  of  this 
answer  on  the  emperor  and  the  public.  (In  their  haste  to  fore- 
stall Reuchlin  they  did  not  consider  the  risk  to  themselves  in 
making  public  his  answer  before  it  reached  the  emperor.)  A 
pamphlet  was  issued  under  the  title  of  "Handspiegel,"  in 
Pfefferkom's  name,  couched  in  flowing  sentences,  giving 
prominence  to  all  the  weak  points  in  Reuchlin's  answer,  charg- 


86  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

ing  him  with  ignorance,  abusing  him  and  ridiculing  his  theory 
and  misrepresenting  it  to  the  common  people.  The  pamphlet 
stated  that  Reuchlin  himself  understood  nothing  of  the  Hebrew 
language,  and  that  his  book  on  Hebrew  grammar  was  written 
by  other  hands;  therefore,  they  asked,  how  can  such  a  man 
coimsel  the  emperor  in  matters  of  which  he  himself  is  ignorant? 
It  stated,  further,  that  Reuchlin's  declaration  that  the  Jews 
must  be  protected  by  the  law  proves  the  utter  absurdity  of  his 
whole  answer,  and  that  it  may  be  justly  suspected  he  did  not 
do  this  for  nothing.  To  add  force  to  their  contention,  they 
published  a  letter  which  Reuchlin  himself  had  written  to  a 
knight  five  years  before,  and  called  upon  Reuchlin  to  deny  his 
statement  in  this  letter  that  the  Jews  slander  Christianity; 
his  refusal  to  do  so  would  indicate  a  desire  to  wantonly  mis- 
lead the  emperor  and  all  good  Christians.  It  said,  moreover, 
that  the  fact  of  Reuchlin's  renown  among  the  Jews  alone 
showed  that  he  had  fallen  a  victim  to  their  wiles.  At  the  end 
of  the  pamphlet,  Pfefferkom  charged  Reuchlin  with  having 
accepted  money  from  the  Jews,  and  blamed  him  for  defending 
them,  since  it  was  his  duty  to  regard  them  only  as  heretics. 
He  also  charged  Reuchlin  with  coimtenancing  usury  (nothing 
about  this  was  mentioned  in  Reuchlin's  answer). 

As  Reuchlin  was  well  known  and  much  respected  in  Ger- 
many, this  pamphlet  made  a  commotion,  and  the  people 
evinced  a  desire  to  read  it,  to  learn  of  what  Reuchlin  was  ac- 
cused. As  it  was  written  in  the  popular  jargon,  many  went 
on  fair  days  to  Frankfort-on-the-Main  to  purchase  the  pam- 
phlet from  Pfefferkom,  Reuchlin  himself  was  astonished  at 
Pfefferkom's  impertinence,  and  annoyed  at  the  imputation 
on  his  honor;  he  therefore  complained  to  the  emperor.  The 
latter,  angry  at  the  action  of  Pfefferkom,  promised  Reuchlin 
that  he  would  entrust  the  task  of  the  revision  of  the  Jewish 
books  to  the  Bishop  of  Augsburg;  but  the  emperor  being  at 
that  time  deeply  occupied  with  matters  of  state,  this  affair 
was  for  the  moment  forgotten.  Meanwhile  a  second  fair  was 
held  at  Frankfort,  and  Pfefferkom  hoped  to  distribute  the 
remaining  pamphlets  among  the  people.  As  soon  as  this  point 
in  the  contest  was  reached,  Reuchlin  resolved,  since  the  quarrel 
had  from  a  religious  become  a  personal  one,  to  uphold  his 
wounded  honor.     He  wrote  a  work  entitled  "  Augenspiegel,"  in 


REUCHLIN,   PFEFFERKORN,   AND  THE   TALMUD.     87 

which  he  complained  that  a  Jewish  apostate  should  endeavor 
to  destroy  the  Talmud.  He  told  the  public  how  Pfefferkom 
had  come  to  him,  asking  his  co-operation,  and  how  by  despica- 
ble means  he  became  aware  of  the  contents  of  his  answer  to  the 
emperor,  so  as  to  be  able  to  heap  more  caliminies  upon  him. 
He  charged  that  there  were  thirty-four  Hes  in  Pfefferkom's 
pamphlet.  He  said,  further,  that  he  had  not  lost  hope  of  facing 
Pfefferkom  in  court,  and  that  the  latter  had  merited  the  sen- 
tence of  death  for  inciting  the  people  against  the  Tews.  He 
declared  the  charge  that  he  had  receiver'  money  from  the  Jews, 
a  false  one,  adducing  many  proofs  to  show  that  the  Domini- 
cans and  Pfefferkom  merely  intended  to  stain  his  name.  He 
further  proved  that  he  himself  had  written  the  Hebrew  gram- 
mar. To  the  main  accusation,  that  he  had  learned  Hebrew 
from  a  Jew,  he  replied  that  Christianity  did  not  forbid  Chris- 
tians from  having  dealings  with,  or  learning  from,  Jews, 
especially  as  this  was  often  productive  of  good  in  the  con- 
version of  the  Jews. 

Now,  instead  of  Pfefferkom's  pamphlet,  Reuchlin's  was 
distributed  at  the  fair,  and  was  sold  in  large  quantities  to  the 
people.  The  Jews  it  is  fair  to  believe,  greedily  bought  the 
work  and  did  their  utmost  to  spread  it  among  the  people.  A 
preacher  named  Peter  Mayer,  of  Frankfort-on-the-Main,  while 
reading  Reuchlin's  pamphlet  in  the  presence  of  Pfefferkom, 
exclaimed  that  it  ought  to  be  bumed  at  the  stake ;  and,  with 
the  sanction  of  the  Archbishop  of  Mayence,  he  prohibited  its 
sale.  But  the  priests  of  Mayence,  all  friendly  to  Reuchlin,  at 
their  convocation  begged  the  archbishop  to  recall  the  prohibi- 
tion and  he  consented.  In  a  short  time  all  Germany  was  in 
possession  of  copies  of  the  work,  and  Reuchlin  received  many 
congratulatory  letters.  However,  the  strife  was  not  yet  over. 
His  enemies  did  everything  they  could  to  overthrow  Reuchlin. 
Paul  Mayer,  after  his  attempt  to  suppress  the  sale  had  proved 
futile,  announced  that  Pfefferkom  would  lecture  on  Reuchlin's 
books' in  the  Catholic  Church  during  the  coming  holidays.  As 
Pfefferkom  was  a  married  man,  and  not  a  priest,  and  therefore 
unable  to  preach  from  the  pulpit,  he  lectured  in  the  hall  of  the 
church  in  the  popular  jargon,  holding  a  cross  in  his  hand.  The 
burden  of  his  lecture  was  that  the  Jews  should  be  persecuted 
imless  they  accepted  Christianity.     It  was  the  first  time  in  the 


88  THE   HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

history  of  the  church  that  a  Jew  had  stood  in  the  corridor  of  a 
church  with  a  cross  in  his  hand  and  preached  against  the  Jews. 
The  monks  meanwhile  gave  Reuchlin's  work  to  Arnold 
Tangersky  for  revision,  and  he  naturally,  being  himself  a 
Dominican,  denounced  it  as  heretical.  The  Dominican,  Ulrich 
of  Stemheim,  wrote  a  letter  to  Reuchlin,  in  which,  speaking  as 
a  friend,  he  says:  "The  scholars  of  Cologne  are  not  yet  united 
in  their  opinion  as  to  what  should  be  done  with  your  work. 
Some  of  them  maintain  that  it  should  be  burned;  others  say 
the  author  should  be  punished ;  and  still  others  are  stronger  in 
condemnation  of  it."  This  letter  did  not  fail  of  its  purpose. 
Reuchlin  understood  full  well  that  if  the  Dominicans  openly 
declared  against  him,  he  would  be  in  great  peril,  since  at  that 
time  their  power  was  supreme  and  they  were  feared  even  by  the 
emperor  himself.  The  Pope,  Alexander  VI.,  himself  exercising 
a  power  to  which  kings  themselves  were  subject,  declared  he 
would  offend  a  rule  sooner  than  the  humblest  Dominican, 
Reuchlin  hastened,  therefore,  to  indite,  in  Latin,  a  letter  to 
Tangersky,  the  reviser  of  the  book,  in  which  he  modified  his 
previous  statements.  He  said  he  judged  the  Talmud,  not  as 
a  theologian,  but  as  a  layman,  and  he  could  not  know,  when 
writing  his  book,  that  the  scholars  of  Cologne  would  disagree 
with  him.  He  also  stated  that  he  had  not  intended  to  cast 
blame  on  any  one  in  his  pamphlet,  and  besought  Tangersky  to 
show  him  his  errors  in  the  "  Augenspiegel "  and  not  condemn 
him  before  doing  so.  He  wrote  a  letter  of  a  different  tenor  to 
his  teacher,  Koln.  In  this  he  ventured  to  blame  the  head  of 
the  Dominicans,  Hochstrater,  whom  he  charged  with  having 
written  the  pamphlet  under  Pfefferkom's  name,  and  he  begged 
him  to  explain  his  words  to  the  faculty,  so  that  they  would  see 
the  truth  and  not  blame  him  (Reuchlin)  unjustly.  The  re- 
sponse to  this  letter  to  Koln  was  not  sent  to  Reuchlin  for  a  long 
time.  The  Dominicans  obviously  sought,  by  delaying  it,  to 
furnish  him  a  pretext  for  committing  an  overt  act.  He  finally 
received  together  two  letters,  one  from  the  Cologne  students 
and  the  other  from  Koln.  The  faculty  scolded  him  for  inter- 
fering in  a  quarrel  which  did  not  concern  him,  and  at  the  same 
time  preventing  the  emperor  from  performing  a  meritorious 
act  in  suppressing  the  Jewish  books.  This  fact,  they  claimed 
and  his  writing  the  "Augenspiegel,"  went  far  to  confirm  the 


REUCHLIN,   PFEFFERKORN,   AND  THE   TALMUD.     89 

suspicion  that  he  inclined  to  Judaism,  and  therefore  it  was 
their  duty  to  punish  him  severely.  They  could  not,  however, 
refuse  the  request  of  Arnold  Tangersky  and  of  Koln  to  defer 
punishment  until  he  was  given  opportunity  to  write  a  second 
pamphlet,  retracting  all  his  words  in  defence  of  the  Talmud 
and  in  blame  of  Pfefferkom. 

Koln  wrote  him  that  he  should  feel  grateful  to  him  for  in- 
ducing the  faculty  to  withhold  his  sentence  and  for  pacifying 
the  Dominicans.  At  the  same  time,  he  reminded  him  of  the 
danger  which  hovered  over  him,  and  advised  him  to  hasten 
and  repair  his  error  by  another  pamphlet,  contradicting  all  his 
previous  statements.  As  to  Reuchlin's  accusation  that  the 
pamphlet  "  Handspiegel "  was  from  the  pen  of  Hochstrater  he 
maintained  complete  silence. 

Reuchlin  at  once  answered  his  enemies  in  two  letters.  He 
thanked  them  for  their  intercession  in  his  behalf,  but  claimed 
that  as  a  married  man  (even  twice  married)  he  could  not  be 
longer  counted  among  theologians,  and  therefore  knew  very 
little  of  the  teachings  of  faith.  He  also  cited  proofs  showing 
that  he  was  not  a  friend  of  Judaism  or  the  Jews.  Nevertheless 
he  refused  to  contradict  the  statements  contained  in  his  first 
pamphlet;  on  the  contrary,  he  reiterated  them,  but  asserted 
his  willingness  to  write  a  commentary  on  his"  Augenspiegel," 
explaining  any  ambiguous  passages  therein.  He  again  urged 
them  to  point  to  him  the  passages  because  of  which  they  accused 
him  of  heresy,  saying  that  only  then  could  he  either  defend  his 
assertions  or  confess  that  he  was  in  error  and  revoke  them.  The 
Dominicans,  seeing  that  correspondence  was  of  no  avail,  com- 
manded him,  first,  to  stop  the  circulation  of  his  pamphlet; 
secondly,  to  contradict  all  he  had  previously  said ;  thirdly,  to 
restore  the  lustre  of  his  name  by  showing  himself  a  good  Chris- 
tian and  a  persecutor  of  the  Jews  and  their  literature.  If  he 
should  refuse  to  do  this,  he  must  stand  trial  before  the  judges 
of  the  Inquisition.  Koln  also  wrote  him  again,  saying  that 
but  for  this  (Koln's)  pleading,  Reuchlin's  pamphlet  would  long 
before  have  been  burned  and  himself  brought  before  the  Inqui- 
sition; therefore  he  again  urged  him  to  respect  the  command 
of  the  faculty,  as,  should  he  fail  to  accede  to  their  order,  he 
could  do  nothing  more  for  him. 

Reuchlin,  seeing  that  further  argument  was  useless  resolved 


go  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

firmly  to  take  up  the  gage  of  battle,  happen  what  may.  First 
of  all,  he  replied  that  he  could  not  stop  the  circulation  of  his 
work,  since  it  was  no  longer  his,  but  was  the  property  of  the 
publisher.  He  could  only  write  a  commentary  as  an  explana- 
tion of  doubtful  passages.  To  his  supposed  friend  Koln,  he 
wrote  that  if  the  latter  had  indeed  prevented  his  work  from 
being  burned,  the  faculty  should  feel  grateful  to  him  (Koln) 
for  restraining  them  from  doing  wrong,  but  that  he  himself 
entertained  no  feelings  of  gratitude  for  it.  He  told  him  he 
did  not  fear  a  contest  with  the  Dominicans,  as  he  had  many 
defenders,  men  of  prominence  and  power  in  Germany,  and  if 
the  matter  were  attended  with  any  danger  it  was  to  his  enemies. 
It  was  easy,  he  said,  to  begin  a  fight,  but  much  more  difficult 
to  gain  a  victory.  He  could  not  understand  why  his  enemies 
failed  to  consider  how  the  people  would  judge  them  if  they  took 
the  part  of  a  Jewish  apostate  against  a  bom  Christian  and  a 
firm  believer  in  Christianity.  He  was  certain  that  Pfefferkom, 
if  thereby  he  could  derive  any  benefit,  would  become  an  apos- 
tate even  to  Mohammedanism  or  any  other  religion.  To 
think  that  Pfefferkom  should  preach  against  the  law  of  the 
land  and  columniate  him!  The  Dominicans,  he  continued,  to 
seek  to  accuse  him  of  trivialities,  and  close  their  eyes  to  the 
many  great  sins  of  the  apostate.  He  also  said  that  poets 
and  writers  of  history  would  stamp  with  shame  the  entire 
faculty,  and  would  make  of  him  (Reuchlin)  a  martyr  for  the 
truth. 

Reuchlin  kept  his  promise  of  writing  a  commentary  to  his 
"  Augenspiegel,"  but  it  had  the  effect  of  adding  fuel  to  the  fire. 
The  Dominicans  were  more  than  ever  enraged,  and  Tangersky 
wrote  a  pamphlet  which  he  dedicated  to  the  emperor,  and 
which  contained  the  following  concerning  Reuchlin 's  interfer- 
ence in  religious  matters  which  are  above  his  tmderstanding : 
"  In  his  pamphlet  one  can  see  that  he  favors  the  Jews,  and  in 
keeping  with  this  he  has  written  sentences  which  border  closely 
on  heresies."  The  work  concludes  by  saying  that  it  is  un- 
doubtedly necessary  to  put  the  Talmud  to  the  stake.  This 
pamphlet  effected  what  the  author  had  intended.  The  em- 
peror, who  had  hitherto  defended  Reuchlin,  now  turned  against 
him,  and  on  his  arival  at  Cologne  he  commanded  that  Reuch- 
lin's  pamphlet  and  commentary  should  not  be  circulated.     The 


REUCHLIN,   PFEFFERKORN,   AND   THE  TALMUD.     91 

Elector  of  Mayence,  acting  in  conjiinction  with  the  Archbishop 
of  Cologne,  displayed  this  order  on  the  churches,  and  threatened 
the  public  with  excommunication  if  they  did  not  return  Reuch- 
lin's  pamphlet  to  the  churches.  But  even  this  failed  of  the 
desired  effect,  for  Reuchlin's  friends  were  too  numerous,  greater 
even  in  number  than  those  of  the  Dominicans ;  the  people  had 
but  small  liking  for  the  latter,  and  they  especially  despised  the 
head  of  the  order,  Hochstrater.  Therefore  Pfefferkom  issued 
a  new  pamphlet,  entitled  "  Brandspiegel,"  wherein  Reuchlin 
was  accused  and  debased.  Therein  he  was  styled  a  man  who 
had  forsaken  the  church,  and  whose  hands  were  sullied  with 
Jewish  bribes.  As  for  the  Jews  Pfefferkom  stated  that  they 
ought  to  be  persecuted  without  pity,  and  incited  the  people  to 
plimder  them  and  devote  the  spoils  to  convents  and  hos- 
pitals. This  was  Pfefferkom's  last  pamphlet,  from  this  time 
he  ceased  to  take  part  in  the  fight.  Reuchlin,  under  a  pseu- 
donym, wrote  another  pamphlet,  "The  Defender."  In  this 
he  says :  "  If  any  one  asserts  that  Reuchlin  did  not,  in  the  Jew- 
ish controversy,  conduct  himself  as  a  true  and  upright  Chris- 
tian, he  utters  a  fasehood."  He  attacks  all  the  Cologne  schol- 
ars, especially  Arthur  Gracia  and  Jacob  Hochstrater.  "  Why," 
he  asks,  "  do  they  make  such  an  uproar  and  hold  themselves  up 
as  greater  authorities  than  other  scholars  of  German  universi- 
ties?" And  to  the  emperor  he  says:  "Permit,  your  majesty, 
the  Dominicans  to  judge  the  Jews  by  the  Inquisition,  that  will 
fill  their  pockets  with  the  gold  and  silver  of  the  Jews.  That  is 
what  they  want ;  obtaining  it,  they  will  then  leave  me  unmo- 
lested." To  Arnold  Tangersky,  who  accused  him  of  protecting 
the  Jews,  he  says:  "It  is  true  I  am  the  protector  of  the  Jews, 
I  protect  them  against  false  accusations.  I  know  that  my 
assertion  that  they  are  citizens  of  Germany  and  entitled  to  the 
protection  of  the  law,  as  other  citizens  are,  will  excite  their 
enemies ;  but  I  say  and  repeat  again,  the  Jews  are  our  brothers 
— brothers  to  Arnold,  brothers  to  the  Dominicans,  brothers  to 
all  the  theologians,  and  the  fathers  of  the  Church  long  ago  made 
a  like  declaration . "  To  the  assertion  of  the  Dominicans  that  he 
contradicts  what  he  had  written  in  his  former  letter,  he  replies 
that  it  is  true  he  had  been  prejudiced  against  the  Jews  until  he 
was  convinced  of  his  error.  The  calumny  that  Jewish  prayers 
MAINTAIN  that  all  Catholic  rulers  should  be  put  to  death  he 


92  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

refutes  by  quoting  a  Mishna:  "Thou  shalt  pray  for  the  peace 
of  the  kingdom  wherever  thou  abidest." 

This  pamphlet  was  sent  to  the  emperor,  who  received  it 
favorably,  and,  owing  to  the  complex  questions  involved,  his 
mind  wavered  in  the  course  he  should  pursue.  First  he  as- 
sured Reuchlin  of  protection  against  the  attacks  of  the  Domini- 
cans. Then  his  father-confessor,  an  enemy  to  Reuchlin,  spoke 
in  favor  of  the  Dominicans,  and  the  emperor  again  prohibited 
the  circulation  of  Reuchlin 's  work.  Finally  he  commanded 
both  parties  to  cease  their  strife.  Even  this  command  failed 
of  its  purpose.  The  imperial  decree  was  imheeded  by  the 
Dominicans,  and  the  head  of  the  Inquisition,  Hochstrater, 
summoned  Reuchlin  to  appear  within  six  days  before  the  judges 
of  Mayence  to  defend  himself  against  the  charges  of  heresy  and 
of  defending  the  Jews.  This  summons  was  couched  in  lan- 
guage unprecedented  in  its  insolence.  Reuchlin  did  not  appear 
at  the  trial,  but  sent  a  deputy.  Hochstrater  opened  the  court. 
He  was  both  prosecutor  and  judge,  and  was  certain  that  the 
trial  would  result  in  the  success  of  his  scheme  against  Reuchlin, 
and  would  cover  the  latter  with  ignominy,  more  especially  as 
he  had  received  favorable  opinions  from  the  German  universi- 
ties that  had  been  ordered  to  afford  coimsel.  The  University 
of  Loewen  had  replied  that  the  pamphlet  should  be  burned, 
that  of  Cologne,  that  besides  its  misleading  nature,  it  showed 
decided  leanings  to  heresy ;  the  University  of  Erfurt  gave  an- 
swer of  like  import.  Those  of  Heidelberg  and  Mayence  alone 
did  not  respond.  Hochstrater  therefore  felt  sufficiently  sup- 
ported and  certain  of  winning  the  trial.  He  recited  a  long  list 
of  grave  accusations  against  Reuchlin,  and  gave  it  to  his  col- 
leagues of  the  court,  calling  upon  them  to  adjudge  the  defend- 
ant guilty  and  order  his  pamphlet  to  be  burned.  Reuchlin's 
deputy  protested  that  Hochstrater  had  no  right  to  be  perse- 
cutor and  judge  in  one ;  the  less  so  as  he  was  known  to  be  Reuch- 
lin's bitterest  enemy.  Seeing,  however,  that  protest  was  of  no 
avail,  he  left  the  court,  Hochstrater,  hesitating  to  sentence, 
contrary  to  public  opinion,  one  who  was  not  present,  posted 
notices  on  church  doors,  requiring  Reuchlin's  deputy  and  all 
who  had  an  interest  in  him,  to  appear  before  the  court.  He 
also  ordered  the  public,  on  the  pain  of  excommunication,  to 
return  the  copies  of  the  "  Augenspiegel "  to  the  judges  of  the 


REUCHLIN,   PFEFFERKORN,   AND  THE   TALMUD.     93 

Inquisition.  The  Dominicans  triumphed  that  day  and  Reuch- 
lin's  defeat  was  seemingly  close  at  hand.  But  this  triumph 
was  only  of  brief  duration.  The  people  of  the  better  class  of 
the  city  openly  murmured  against  Hochstrater's  proclamation 
and  even  the  archbishop's  colleagues  advised  that  the  trial  be 
delayed  for  a  short  period,  since  Reuchlin  or  his  deputies  had 
not  undergone  examination. 

The  trial  was  therefore  postponed  for  two  weeks,  Hoch- 
strater  thinking  that  Reuchlin  would  be  ashamed  to  appear 
in  person  as  a  defendant,  and  feeling  certain  that  at  the 
expiration  of  two  weeks  he  could  be  adjudged  guilty  by 
default.  But  Reuchlin  did  appear  in  person  with  the  coun- 
sellor of  the  Duke  of  Wiirttemberg,  and  that  of  the  Duke 
of  Mayence.  The  "Kapital"  endeavored  to  make  peace 
between  the  two  parties,  but  in  vain.  The  inquisitor  Hoch- 
strater  refused  to  listen  to  overtures  of  peace,  and  ordered  the 
judges  to  do  their  duty.  They  obeyed  and  began  to  write 
down  their  judgment,  when  suddenly  a  rider  appeared  with  a 
letter  in  his  hand  from  Archbishop  Uriel.  He  passed  through 
the  crowd  and  straight  to  the  judges,  who  were  much  aston- 
ished and  anxious  to  know  the  contents  of  the  letter.  It  was 
read  aloud  to  the  assembled  people,  and  was  to  the  effect  that 
Archbishop  Uriel  commanded  the  postponement  of  the  trial 
for  one  month,  and  if  this  command  were  disobeyed  he  would 
declare  it  a  mistrial  and  dissolve  the  court.  The  Dominicans, 
defeated,  left  the  court  amidst  the  laughter  of  the  people. 
There  was  much  rejoicing  among  the  Jews,  as  upon  this  trial 
depended  their  fate ;  but  Reuchlin  was  not  content  with  the 
mere  postponement  of  the  trial,  knowing  that  the  Dominicans 
would  persecute  him  until  they  conquered.  He  determined, 
therefore,  to  leave  his  fate  to  the  decision  of  Pope  Leo  X.  But, 
learning  that  the  Dominicans  would  bribe  the  advisers  of  the 
pope  and  persuade  him  to  order  the  trial  to  be  held  in  Cologne, 
he  wrote  a  letter  in  Hebrew  to  the  pope's  physician,  Bangett 
Delakes,  beseeching  his  influence  to  prevent  this.  Leo,  in- 
volved just  then  in  grave  secular  matters — religious  questions, 
for  the  time  being,  having  no  place  in  his  councils — and  seeing 
his  quarrel  likely  to  spread  over  Europe,  directed  the  bishops 
of  Speyer  and  Worms  to  end  the  contest  by  issuing  a  decision 
which  should  be  respected  by  both  parties.     These  bishops 


94  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

appointed  a  committee  to  investigate  and  report  on  the  matter. 
The  committee,  though  in  awe  of  the  Dominicans,  conducted 
their  investigation  dehberately,  and  at  the  end  of  a  year  pro- 
nounced the  pamphlet  "  Augenspiegel "  free  from  any  heresy, 
and  Reuchlin  to  have  no  leanings  towards  Judaism  or  the  Jews. 
They  therefore  permitted  its  circulation  and  ordered  Hoch- 
strater,  on  the  pain  of  confinement  in  a  monastery,  to  pay  to 
Reuchlin  300  gulden  as  the  costs  of  the  trial,  and  threatened 
him  with  excommunication  if  he  disobeyed  the  order. 

Hochstrater  then  appealed  to  the  pope  for  an  impartial 
trial,  hoping  that  by  a  liberal  use  of  the  wealth  of  the  Domini- 
cans, since  Reuchlin  was  poor,  the  latter  would  suffer  defeat. 
He  also  sent  Reuchlin 's  "Augenspiegel"  to  the  University  of 
Paris,  esteemed  the  greatest  university  of  the  time,  urging  it  to 
condemn  the  pamphlet.  He  appealed  also  to  all  of  Reuchlin's 
opponents  and  all  who  were  zealous  for  the  welfare  of  the  Catho- 
lic Church  to  imite  against  him.  Reuchlin's  friends  were  not 
idle.  Realizing  the  evil  exerted  by  the  Dominicans  through- 
out the  world,  they,  together  with  a  body  of  Catholics  called 
"  Humanists  "  who  sought  the  reformation  of  the  Church,  united 
under  Reuchlin's  flag  and  termed  themselves  "Reuchlinists." 
The  opposing  party  adopted  the  name  "Amoldists."  These 
were  the  two  parties  that  occupied  the  public  mind  before 
Luther  began  the  Reformation. 

Many  scholars  of  young  Germany  went  over  to  Reuchlin's 
side,  particularly  Hermann  von  Busche,  Croates  Rinbianes, 
and  the  yoimg  and  sagacious  Ulrich  von  Hutten;  also  many 
of  the  rulers,  among  whom  were  Duke  Ulrich  of  Wiirttemberg 
and  all  his  family,  Count  Halfenstein  of  Augsburg,  Count  von 
Guemor  of  Patriz,  Welsen,  Pirkameier,  Neitiger,  as  well  as 
many  Italian  priests,  notably  the  General  of  the  Augustinians, 
Eggodia  de  Viterba,  who  loved  the  Hebrew  literature  and  was 
at  that  time  engaged  in  translating  the  "  Zohar."  Viterba  said 
in  his  letter  to  Reuchlin:  "You  have  saved  the  books  which 
have  spread  light  all  over  the  world  for  centuries,  and  if  they 
were  lost,  darkness  would  ensue.  And  in  supporting  you,  we 
shield  not  you  but  religion ;  and  not  the  Talmud,  but  the  com- 
munity of  Christ." 

The  strife  spread  all  over  Germany,  and  there  was  scarcely 
a  city  in  which  were  not  to  be  found  either  Reuchlinists  or 


REUCHLIN,   PFEFFERKORN,   AND  THE  TALMUD.     95 

Amoldists — the  former,  for  the  preservation  of  the  "Aiigen- 
spiegel"  and  the  Talmud;  the  latter,  for  the  destruction  of 
both.  The  contest  became  each  day  more  intense,  and 
although  the  victory  was  with  Reuchlin,  he  was  still  anxious 
as  to  Hochstrater's  appeal  to  Rome,  since  the  latter  had  great 
influence  there.  His  friends  therefore  advised  him  to  publish 
all  the  letters  he  had  received  from  all  parts  of  Germany  and 
Italy,  to  convince  the  pope  of  the  character  of  the  man  the 
Dominicans  were  persecuting.  Among  these  letters  was  one 
from  the  Emperor  Frederick  praising  Reuchlin  in  glowing  terms 
and  testifying  that  he  was  held  in  honor  and  repect  by  the 
father  of  the  pope,  Lorenzo  de  Medici. 

These  efforts  of  Reuchlin  and  his  friends  brought  about  the 
appointment  by  the  people  of  Cardinal  Gremama,  a  lover  of 
rabbinical  literature  and  Kabbala,  as  investigator  and  judge  of 
the  quarrel.  The  Cardinal  summoned  Reuchlin  and  Hoch- 
strater  to  appear  in  Rome,  and  as  Reuchlin  was  very  old,  he 
was  allowed  to  send  a  deputy.  Hochstrater,  however,  ap- 
peared in  person  with  all  his  wealth.  This  did  not,  however, 
disturb  Reuchlin,  as  he  had  many  friends  at  Rome.  Even  the 
Emperor  Maximilian  interceded  for  him  with  the  pope. 
Among  his  other  defenders  was  the  emperor's  secretary, 
Wurke,  Duke  Ulrich  of  Wiirttemberg  and  the  Elector  of  Sax- 
ony, Frederick  the  Wise  (later  the  chief  supporter  of  Luther). 
Many  bishops  also  defended  him,  notably  those  of  Strassburg, 
of  Constanz,  of  Speyer,  and  numerous  other  churchmen.  Hoch- 
strater spent  large  sums  of  money  to  procure  the  appointment 
of  Cardinal  Bemardine  de  Santa  as  assistant  to  the  judge,  but, 
through  the  influence  of  the  Reuchlinists,  Cardinal  Pietro 
Ankenotini  de  Sant'  Isemblia  was  selected  by  the  pope  for  this 
office.  The  pope's  committee  forbade  any  discussion  of  the 
matter  until  the  sentence  of  the  judges  of  Rome  was  announced. 
But  the  Dominicans  heeded  neither  this  command  nor  public 
opinion,  and,  in  order  to  influence  the  pope,  they  even  threat- 
ened, should  Reuchlin  be  victor  at  the  trial,  to  secede  fiom  the 
church  and  unite  with  the  Hussites  of  Bohemia.  They  also, 
in  defiance  of  the  prohibition  of  discussion,  placed  hope  in  the 
University  of  Paris,  for  at  that  period  France  and  Germany 
were  in  conflict  in  secular  matters,  it  naturally  befell  that  on 
religious  questions  also  their  views  were  diametrically  opposed. 


96  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

So  the  University  of  Paris,  though  in  heart  and  conscience  in 
full  accord  with  Reuchlin,  nevertheless,  for  purely  worldly 
reasons,  felt  compelled  to  render  an  unfavorable  opinion  of  him 
and  of  his  works,  stating  that  the  "  Augenspiegel "  contained 
heresy  and  should  be  burned,  and  that  its  author  should  be 
compelled  to  make  full  retraction.  The  Dominicans  hastened 
to  published  this  reply  from  Paris  in  a  pamphlet  entitled 
"Glocke"  (bell),  in  the  name  of  Pfefferkom,  although  for  this 
action  Hochstrater  was  indicted  by  the  Fiscal  of  the  Emperor. 
The  emperor's  sister,  Kunigunde,  again  kept  Hochstrater 
from  imprisonment.  The  Dominicans  employed  every  means 
to  delay  the  trial,  so  as  to  increase  Reuchlin 's  expenses,  think- 
ing that,  since  he  could  not  afford  the  necessary  expense  at- 
tached to  it,  he  would  forego  trial.  Reuchlm's  friends  repre- 
sented to  the  public  Hochstrater's  evil  designs,  and  at  the  same 
time  appeared  a  collection  of  letters  "From  the  Benighted 
People."  The  first  volume,  written  in  a  satirical  style,  pro- 
fessed to  be  from  the  pen  of  Krate  Rubian  of  Leipzig,  and  con- 
tained confessions  by  Dominican  monks  of  their  evil  deeds 
since  the  existence  of  the  Order.  These  letters  were  quickly 
spread  throughout  the  entire  west  of  Europe  despite  the  pro- 
tests of  the  Dominicans,  which  protests,  indeed,  only  furthered 
their  circulation.  Hochstrater,  fearing  lest  the  trial  would  end 
in  Reuchlin 's  favor,  demanded  that  it  be  given  to  an  interna- 
tional coimcil,  since  the  matter  concerned  the  entire  Catholic 
Church.  The  pope,  who  was,  as  it  were,  placed  between  two 
fires,  the  German  Emperor  and  rulers,  on  the  one  hand,  and  the 
King  of  France  and  the  heir-apparent  of  Germany  (who  sided 
with  the  Dominicans),  on  the  other,  resolved  to  place  it  before 
the  Council  of  the  Lateran  and  all  Europe. 

Two  years  passed ;  the  strife  had  not  yet  ended,  and  Reuch- 
lin became  sad  at  heart.  He  feared  that  his  friends  would  fall 
away  from  him,  seeing  no  immediate  prospects  of  the  close  of 
the  quarrel;  he  also  feared,  as  he  was  advanced  in  years,  lest 
he  should  die  before  its  settlement,  and  the  Dominicans  win 
the  battle,  while  his  name  w^ould  become  a  reproach.  These 
fears  were  unfoumded,  as  his  friends  did  not  weaken  in  their 
support  of  his  cause.  Finally,  on  the  2d  of  July,  15 16,  the 
result  of  the  trial  was  announced  at  a  session  of  the  council, 
signed  by  Bishop  Gregory  Bengiani,  as  follows:     The   pam- 


REUCHLIN,   PFEFFERKORN,   AND  THE  TALMUD.     97 

phlet,  "  Augenspiegel,"  contained  no  heresy.  The  error,  in  such 
an  assumption,  rested  with  the  Paris  University,  and  the  other 
faculties  in  agreement  with  it.  The  Bishop  of  Malta  added 
that  the  Judge  of  the  Inquistion,  Hochstrater,  who  considered 
himself  one  of  the  main  pillars  of  religion,  ought  to  be  indicted. 
Under  Bengiani's  signature  were  written  those  of  the  other 
cardinals,  except  that  of  the  Dominican  Cardinal,  Sylvestei 
Priervis.  As  the  pope  himself  had  not  yet  acknowledged  or 
sanctioned  the  sentence,  Hochstrater  did  not  despair,  and, 
with  the  aid  of  his  friends,  he  begged  the  pope  to  delay  the 
execution  of  the  sentence  for  an  indefinite  period,  hoping  to 
bring,  at  a  future  time,  the  trial  before  another  council  and 
obtain  a  decision  in  his  favor.  The  pope  commanded  the 
parties  to  terminate  their  quarrelings  and  cease  all  discussion 
of  the  matter,  under  the  impression  that  a  command  from  him 
would  put  an  end  to  it.  He  was  mistaken ;  the  strife  grew  in 
intensity  and  spread  over  Germany.  Both  factions  were 
more  than  ever  determined  to  continue. 

When  Hochstrater  returned  from  Rome  his  life  was  in 
danger  from  the  Reuchlinists,  and  only  by  the  efforts  of  Reuch- 
lin  himself  was  bloodshed  prevented.  The  Dominicans  lost 
all  favor  with  the  pubHc.  This  did  not,  however,  prevent  the 
Dominican,  Peter  Mayer,  from  lecturing  in  all  the  great 
churches  against  Reuchlin  and  his  party,  and  abusing  him  in 
the  vilest  language.  Finally,  roused  to  violence  by  his  words, 
the  Dominicans  slew  some  of  the  Reuchlinists.  This  resulted 
in  a  rupture  between  the  pope  and  the  Dominicans.  But  when 
the  second  volume  of  "The  Benighted"  letters  appeared, 
wherein  the  Dominicans  were  painted  in  the  blackest  colors, 
they  begged  the  pope  to  shield  them  from  the  wrath  of  the 
people.  This  time  he  listened  to  them,  and  prohibited  the  cir- 
culation of  the  pamphlet.  This  command  was  unheeded,  as 
the  light  of  knowledge  was  beginning  to  spread  over  the 
world,  and  the  satire  was  read  by  many  priests  and  monks  of 
other  orders  than  the  Dominicans ;  and,  at  the  same  time,  the 
Humanists  distributed  pamphlets  and  circulars  against  the 
Dominicans. 

After  no  long  interval,  a  second  edition  of  "  The  Benighted  " 
letters  appeared,  to  the  joy  of  the  Reuchlinists.  The  Domini- 
can leaders  saw  now  that  there  was  a  rupture  in  the  Catholic 


98  THE   HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

Church,  and  announced  to  the  pope  that  the  people  ridiculed 
their  teachings  and  would  not  obey  the  doctrines  of  Catholi- 
cism. This  time  they  told  the  truth.  Hitherto,  sufficient 
credit  had  not  been  accorded  public  opinion  by  the  rulers, 
although  the  influence  wielded  by  Luther  was  almost  wholly 
due  to  it,  and  he  acknowledged  that  the  controversy  between 
these  two  great  parties  had  paved  the  way  for  the  Reformation. 
After  Maximilian's  death,  the  strife  became  still  more  intense, 
and  the  topics  most  often  heard  were  those  of  the  Talmud, 
Reuchlin,  Luther,  and  the  Reformation.  At  the  meeting  of 
the  electors  of  Germany,  to  choose  an  emperor,  they  all  sanc- 
tioned Reuchlin's  actions.  Ulrich  von  Hutten  persuaded  the 
knight,  Franz  von  Eickingen,  to  separate  himself  from  the 
Catholic  Church  and  join  Reuchlin  and  Luther.  This  knight 
and  his  companion,  Dalkery,  with  many  other  friends  of  Reuch- 
lin, demanded  that  Hochstrater  pay  the  sum  of  iii  gulden  to 
Reuchlin  to  defray  the  costs  of  the  trial  at  Speyer,  and  also 
give  bonds  not  to  further  molest  Reuchlin.  The  Dominicans 
were  fully  aware  that  this  command  must  be  obeyed,  imlike 
that  of  the  emperor  or  the  pope,  which  they  would  have  un- 
hesitatingly disobeyed.  They  were  compelled  to  pay  the  above 
sum,  but  as  the  treasury  of  the  government  was  empty,  the  sum 
did  not  go  to  Reuchlin,  but  to  the  government.  Hochstrater 
was  deposed  from  his  post  of  Judge  of  the  Inquisition,  and  a 
committee  of  monks  requested  the  pope  to  do  all  in  his  power 
to  end  the  strife,  and  allow  Reuchlin  to  live  in  peace,  since  he 
was  a  great  scholar  and  a  firm  believer  in  Christianity.  The 
Talmud  attained  new  prestige,  since  henceforth  the  pope  looked 
upon  it  with  favor, .  and  even  persuaded  Daniel  Bamberg,  of 
Antwerp,  a  famous  printer,  to  issue  a  complete  edition  for  the 
first  time  in  its  history.  And,  so,  in  the  year  1520,  the  Baby- 
lonian Talmud  appeared,  v/ith  all  the  commentaries,  in  twelve 
volumes,  and  from  this  all  later  editions  have  been  copied. 
Reuchlin  in  his  last  years  was  compelled,  like  Luther,  to  leave 
his  home  and  seek  an  abiding  place  where  he  could  live  in 
peace.  Later,  when  Luther  sent  delegates  to  the  prominent 
rulers  of  Germany,  the  pope  was  forced  to  adopt  the  suggestion 
of  the  Dominicans  and  excommunicate  Luther,  and  at  the 
same  time  prohibit  Reuchlin's  works.  But  both  the  excom- 
munication and  prohibition  were  publicly  burned  by  Luther 


THE   FRANKISTS.  gg 

on  the  loth  of  December,  1520.  From  this  time  on,  Luther 
threw  off  the  chains  of  the  pope,  and  inaugurated  the  Reforma- 
tion. Again,  and  for  the  last  time,  Pfefferkom  appeared  with 
a  new  pamphlet  against  Reuchlin,  but  it  received  no  counte- 
nance ;  on  the  contrary,  he  was  abused  by  all  factions ;  and  his 
suggestion  to  expel  the  Jews  from  Frankfort  was  denounced 
by  all  alike.  After  this  event,  nothing  more  was  heard  of  him. 
As  soon  as  the  Reformation  was  established,  Reuchlin  was 
called  to  take  the  chair  of  Hebrew  in  the  University  of  Tubin- 
gen, where  he  taught  many  students.  He  died  in  1522,  to  the 
great  grief  of  his  admirers.  Reuchlin  was  generally  credited 
by  the  Reformers  with  being  one  of  the  initiators  of  the  Refor- 
mation. 


CHAPTER  XV. 

POLEMICS    WITH    MUSSULMANS    AND    THE   DISPUTES   WITH 
THE    FRANKISTS 

The  Jews  were  not  exempt  from  disputes  with  scholars  of 
Islam  also  during  the  first  years  of  the  latter 's  history,  but  these 
disputes  differed  from  those  with  the  Christians  in  that  they 
did  not  involve  the  Jews  in  calamities.  In  addition  to  the  oral 
disputes,  many  controversial  books  appeared  between  the  ninth 
and  the  sixteenth  centuries,  among  which  were  the  books  of 
Saadiah  the  Gaon  against  the  Karaites,  which  the  Karaites 
answered,  not  with  arguments,  but  with  scoffing.  A  great 
quantity  of  books  were  issued  by  the  Karaites  in  which  they 
ridiculed  the  Rabbis,  in  particular  Saadiah  the  Gaon,  who  ex- 
posed their  weaknesses.  Like  service  was  performed  by  the 
book  of  Samuel  ben  Chaphni  Hakohen,  entitled  "To  Exalt  the 
Value  of  Theological  Studies,"  against  whom  the  Karaite 
Samuel  ben  Jehudah  Eben  Agia  wrote  a  pamphlet  under  the 
title  ' '  Strenuous  Denial. ' '  R.  Jehudah  Halevi's ' '  Hakusri ' '  and 
Maimonides'  controversial  letters  also  had  for  their  aim  the 
strengthening  of  the  foundations  of  the  creed. 

But  the  strife  raged  with  the  greatest  intensity  in  Spain  in 
the  middle  of  the  twelfth  century.  First  appeared  the  book  on 
"Sepher  Habrith"  by  R.  Joseph  Kimchi.  Following  this 
came  controversial  works  by  R.  Jacob  b.  Reuben,  R.  Moses  b. 


loo  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

Tikun,  and  R.  Moses  b.  Solomon,  of  Saliri,  the  title  of  the 
latter's  book  being  "A  Word  of  Faith,"  in  which  he  records 
disputes  with  Christians;  by  R.  Jechiel  b.  Joseph,  of  Paris,  R. 
Nathan,  of  Upsala,  R.  Joseph,  and  R.  Meir  b.  Simeon,  in  his 
book  "The  Battle  of  Merit,"  in  which  are  related  his  disputes 
with  the  Archbishop  of  Narbonne;  and  by  R.  Mordecai  b. 
Tehosaph  in  his  book,  "The  Strengthener  of  Faith,"  written 
against  the  Christian,  Paul  Christianus,  who  had  held  many 
controversies  with  Ramban  and  others. 

In  reply  to  the  book  of  Abner  of  Burgos,  who  adopted  the 
name  of  Alphonse  of  Valladolid,  and  who  wrote  much  that  was 
hostile  to  Judaism,  appeared  works  by  R.  Isaac  Ebn  Palkara, 
as  well  as  by  R.  Joseph  Shalom,  imder  the  title  of  "  A  Reply  to 
Alfonso's  Writings."  How  great  a  degree  of  tolerance  the  Jews 
manifested  in  this  controversy  may  be  seen  from  what  Moses 
of  Narbonne  wrote  of  Abner,  his  former  friend — namely,  that 
he  was  intelligent  and  virtuous,  but  dispairing;  unable  to 
endure  the  calamities  heaped  upon  the  Jewish  people;  not 
content  with  the  peace  to  his  soul,  but  seeking  also  worldly 
happiness ;  and,  reading  in  the  stars  that  the  Jews  destiny  was 
to  suffer  and  bear  trials,  he  fell  into  the  error  of  thinking  that 
they  would  never  again  be  strong  as  a  nation,  and  coiinselled 
them  as  he  himself  had  done,  to  accept  Christianity,  not  submit 
to  their  fate.  R.  Moses  de  Torsilla  also  wrote  a  book  entitled 
"  Aid  to  Faith  "  (1374),  consisting  of  seventeen  chapters,  in  the 
form  of  a  dialogue  between  professors  of  the  two  religions.  In 
all  these  books  it  is  declared  that  the  Hagadas  of  the  Talmud 
are  not  authoritative  but  are  to  be  regarded  barely  as  fiction, 
and  as  devoid  of  any  sacredness.  In  Germany  also  appeared 
in  defense  of  Judaism  the  work  "Book  of  Victory"  (Sepher 
Nitzachon),  by  the  excellent  writer,  R.  Lipman  of  Muelhausen, 
which  appears  to  have  made  so  deep  an  impression  that  the 
Bishop  of  Brandenburg,  Stephen  Batekei,  felt  it  necessary  to 
reply  to  it. 

Lastly  may  be  mentioned  the  two  disputes  which  took  place 
between  the  Rabbis  and  the  Frankistsin  175 6- 1757,  at  the  com- 
mand of  Bishops  Dembovsky  and  Micholsky,  in  Kamenitz, 
Podolsk  and  Lemberg,  cities  of  Poland.  These  terminated  the 
disputes  which  the  Jews  were  compelled  to  hold  with  their 
opponents  in  the  presence  of  the  people  and  dignitaries.    They 


THE   FRANKISTS. 


lOI 


were  distinguished  by  the  fact  that  the  Frankists  impeached 
the  authority  of  the  Talmud  on  the  strength  of  the  Midrash  of 
R.  Simeon  b.  Jochai,  termed  "Zohar,"  which  they  considered 
sacred,  while  they  regarded  the  Talmud  as  profane.  These 
disputes  were  further  distinguished  by  the  circumstance  that 
the  founder  of  the  Hasidismus,  R.  Israel  baal  Shem  Tob,  was 
elected  as  the  chief  disputant  to  represent  the  Rabbis,  forced 
to  dispute  with  the  Frankists  in  Micholsky's  presence.  The 
Frankists  were  an  offshoot  of  the  sect  of  the  false  Messiah, 
Shabattai  Zvi,  who  produced  a  storm  throughout  the  whole 
world  in  the  year  1654.  One  Jacob  Frank,  a  Polish  Jew, 
accepted  Islamism  at  Salonica,  where  he  joined  the  sect  of 
Shabattai  Zvi,  who  were  seeming  Mohammedans  and  were 
called  Dauma.  In  1754  he  arrived  in  Poland  and  set  to  work, 
with  the  assistance  of  two  Rabbis,  Moses  and  Nachman,  who  ac- 
companied him,  to  revive  the  creed  of  Shabattai  Zvi.  The  fol- 
lowers of  Shabattai  Zvi,  who  still  remained  in  Poland,  received 
him  with  open  arms,  and  entered  upon  an  open  propagation  of 
the  mischievous  teachings.  The  Jews  thereupon  informed  the 
ecclesiastical  authorities  of  the  country  of  their  activity,  which 
so  alarmed  them  that  they  hastened  to  the  Bishop  and  asserted 
their  belief  in  the  Trinity,  and  that  they  were  not  Talmudic 
Jews,  but  followers  of  the  Zohar — "Zoharites."  They  peti- 
tioned Bishop  Dembovsky  of  Kamenitz  to  force  the  Jews  to  dis- 
pute with  them  and  thus  afford  them  opporttmity  to  prove  that 
the  only  true  belief  is  in  one  God  in  three  persons,  incarnate  in 
the  flesh,  and  the  teaching  of  the  Talmud  all  vanity,  etc.,  a  re- 
habilitation of  all  the  old  slanderous  charges.  The  Bishop 
ordered  the  dispute  to  begin  in  May,  1754;  and  the  Jews,  not 
appearing  at  the  appointed  time,  incurred  a  heavy  fine  therefor. 
In  Jime  of  that  year  there  assembled  at  Kamenitz  thirty  Rab- 
bis, from  whom  were  chosen  as  disputants  R.  Leib  Meziboz,  R. 
Bar  Jozelovitz,  R.  Mendel  Satanow,  and  R.  Joseph  Kremenetz  ; 
and  about  the  same  number  of  Frankists,  headed  by  Leib  Krim 
of  Nadvama,  Soloman  Shur  of  Rahatin  and  Nachman  of 
Bushk.  The  pleading  of  the  Rabbis  that  in  the  Zohar  and  in 
all  the  books  of  Israel  there  is  no  hint  of  a  Trinity,  which  was 
purely  an  invention  of  the  Frankists  themselves,  was  of  no  avail, 
for  Dembovsky  decided  against  the  Jews  and  fined  them  5,000 
gold  guldens,  to  be  paid  to  the  Frankists,  and  also  directed  the 


I02  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

Jews  to  dispute  with  the  latter  whenever  called  upon ;  one 
hundred  and  fifty  gold  guldens  were  likewise  to  be  paid  by  the 
Jews  for  the  repair  of  the  Christian  Cathedral  at  Kamenitz.  All 
copies  of  the  Talmud  were  to  be  burned,  although  the  Jews  ap- 
pealed to  the  King,  August  III.,  against  this  decree  of  Dembov- 
sky,  claiming  that  they  possessed  the  right,  accorded  to  them  by 
previous  rulers,  to  print  the  Talmud ;  and  although  they  were 
sustained  in  this  contention  by  many  princes  of  the  kingdom, 
yet,  owing  to  the  political  and  religious  turmoil  then  existing 
throughout  the  kingdom,  the  king  or  his  minister,  could  give  no 
heed  to  the  matter,  and  the  Jews  were  forced  to  submit  to  the 
decree  of  the  bishop.  Shortly  thereafter,  however,  Dembovsky 
died  a  sudden  death  (the  result  of  an  injury  received,  it  is 
related,  from  a  fire  which  consumed  the  Talmud),  and  was  suc- 
ceeded by  Labinsky,  who  showed  no  favor  to  the  Frankists.  The 
Jews,  with  the  help  of  the  government  ofhcials  and  an  expendi- 
ture of  money,  effected  the  expulsion  of  the  Frankists  from 
their  residence  near  Kamenitz,  for  being  neither  Jews  nor  Chris- 
tians, and  they  suffered  persecutions.  They  were  compelled  to 
shave  part  of  their  heads  and  half  of  their  beard ;  insults  and 
indignities  were  heaped  upon  them,  and  many  fled  to  Turkey. 
But  even  there  they  found  no  rest ;  they  were  relentlessly  perse- 
cuted, and  Elisha  Ratin,  one  of  their  leaders,  was  beaten  to 
death.  They  therefore  betook  themselves  to  the  frontiers 
between  Poland  and  Turkey,  in  constant  peril  of  their  lives 
from  the  people  of  both  nations.  When  their  condition  became 
imbearable,  they  turned  again  to  the  king,  and  begged  him  to 
restore  to  them  the  freedom  granted  by  Dembovsky.  In  this 
they  succeeded ;  the  king  permitted  them  in  May,  1 757,  to  settle 
imdisturbed  in  the  province  of  Podalia.  And  thus  they  re- 
turned to  Poland,  in  poverty  and  rags.  In  this  state  of  deg- 
radation Frank  advised  them,  in  order  to  better  their  condition, 
to  embrace  Christianity.  They  therefore,  in  January,  1758, 
sent  a  petition  to  the  Bishop  Labinsky  by  six  of  their  leaders, 
asking  that  they  be  received  into  the  Catholic  Church  and  be 
granted  permission  to  dispute  with  the  Talmudic  Jews,  who 
drink  the  blood  of  Christian  infants,  etc.  Labinsky  replied 
that  it  was  not  in  his  power  to  improve  their  material  condition ; 
their  acceptance  of  Christianity  could  affect  only  their  spiritual 
welfare.     They  again  addressed  themselves  to  the  king,  in  May 


THE   FRANKISTS.  103 

of  the  same  year,  but  their  petition  was  not  answered.  Labin- 
sky  suddenly  resigned  his  office  and  Micholsky  was  chosen  his 
successor.  The  latter  exhibited  a  great  zeal  for  proselyting, 
and  the  Frankists  hastened  to  present  their  petition  to  him, 
requesting  permission,  before  being  baptized,  to  dispute  again 
with  the  Jews.  Perhaps,  they  urged,  they  might  succeed  in 
convincing  the  Jews  of  their  great  error  and  madness  and  in 
inducing  them  to  accept  Christianity  too.  Micholsky  acceded 
to  this  request,  and  ordered  the  Jewish  Rabbis  to  assemble  at 
Lemberg  on  a  day  appointed  by  him. 

At  the  time  set  for  the  dispute  there  came  in  sorrow  to  Lem- 
berg, forty  of  the  chief  Rabbis  of  Poland,  at  their  head  Israel 
Besht  of  Mezibuz,  and  chose  as  disputants  three  of  them — 
Besht,  the  Rabbi  of  the  district,  Haim  Rapoport,  and  R.  Bar 
Jozelovitz.  The  disputants  for  the  Frankists  were  Frank  him- 
self, Leib  Krim,  and  Solomon  Shur. 

The  dispute  lasted  three  days,  beginning  June  23,  1758,  and 
the  hopes  of  the  Frankists  for  a  victory  were  shattered.  Though 
Micholsky  and  many  Polish  nobles  sided  with  them,  they  failed 
to  prove  that  the  Zohar  contained  anything  that  favored  their 
religion.  The  judges,  even,  utterly  disagreed  with  the  dis- 
tortions to  which  they  subjected  the  passages  of  the  Zohar  and 
Kabbalistic  books.  The  Jewish  Rabbis  departed  in  peace, 
without  being  fined,  and  the  petition  of  their  adversaries,  that 
a  district  in  Poland  be  set  apart  for  their  dwelling,  was  refused, 
and  they  were  invited  to  receive  baptism.  Thus  ended  favor- 
ably for  the  Jews  the  last  of  these  peculiar  disputes.  The  Jews 
made  efforts  to  induce  the  Frankists  to  become  Christians  as 
soon  as  possible,  that  there  might  in  future  be  no  relationship 
between  them.  In  this  they  succeeded,  and  since  that  time, 
between  the  Frankists,  as  Christians,  and  the  Jews  there  has 
been  nothing  in  common  in  either  religious  or  secular  matters. 


I04  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 


CHAPTER  XVI. 

THE  PERSECUTIONS   OF  THE   SEVENTEENTH  CENTURY,  THE  HEAD 
OF   WHOM    WAS   JOHANN   ANDREAS   EISENMENGER. 

The  victory  of  Reuchlin,  and  the  establishment  of  the  Ref- 
ormation by  Luther,  in  the  sixteenth  century,  did  not  stop 
the  persecution  of  the  Talmud.  It  was  ever  renewed  by  men 
of  rank  in  the  different  countries.  The  most  dangerous  of 
them  was  Johann  Andreas  Eisenmenger,  who  spent  almost 
all  his  lifetime  in  the  destruction  of  the  Talmud  and  its  stand- 
ard-bearers ;  and  it  seems  miraculous  that  he  did  not  succeed. 

Eisenmenger  was  bom  in  1654,  at  Manheim.  In  1666  he 
came  to  Heidelberg  where  he  found  grace  in  the  eyes  of  Prince 
Carl  Ludwig,  who  was  pleased  with  Eisenmenger' s  determina- 
tion to  learn  the  Hebrew  language.  Prince  Carl  Ludwig  sent 
him,  at  his  own  expense,  to  travel  in  different  countries  to  be- 
come accomplished  in  the  study  of  Oriental  languages.  But 
when  Eisenmenger  was  about  to  visit  Palestine,  the  prince 
died  (1680),  and  he  established  himself  in  the  City  of  Amster- 
dam, where  he  lived  for  some  time  in  friendly  relations  with 
the  Hebrew  scholars  and  with  Rabbi  David  Lida  of  that  city. 

At  the  end  of  the  same  year  it  happened  that  three  Gentiles 
circumcised  themselves  and  embraced  the  Jewish  faith.  This, 
according  to  Eisenmenger's  own  confession,  angered  him  al- 
most to  death.  And  this  occurrence  made  him  determine  to 
write  a  voluminous  book  on  the  "wickedness"  of  the  Tal- 
mud, in  order  (he  said)  to  save  Christianity  from  danger. 

He  worked  hard  and  successfully  for  nineteen  years ;  trans- 
lated into  German  from  193  different  Hebrew  books,  and  a 
considerable  number  of  pages  from  various  Tracts  of  the 
Talmud  itself. 

This  book,  which  he  named  "  Endecktes  Judenthum  "  (Un- 
veiled Judaism) ,  containing  two  volumes  of  more  than  a  thou- 
sand pages  each,  he  gave  in  the  year  1700  to  the  printers  of 
Frankfort-on-the-Main. 

The  Jews  of  that  city  got  wind  of  it,  and  being  afraid  that 
this  book  would  cause  a  renewal  of  massacres  of  Jews,  such  as 
took  place  in  the  cities  of  Franken  and  Bamberg  in  1699,  where 


EISENMENGER.  ,„- 

houses  and  other  Jewish  property  were  destroyed  by  the  mob, 
appealed  to  Sampson  Wertheimer,  who  was  then  the  banker  of 
Emperor  Leopold,  that  he  should  point  out  to  the  emperor  the 
dangers  which  such  a  book  would  lead  to. 

Remembering  that  after  the  destruction  of  Jewish  property, 
the  mob,  in  the  above-mentioned  places,  turned  to  the  palaces 
of  the  noblemen,  the  Emperor  commanded  the  Governor  of 
Frankfort  to  stop  the  printing  of  the  book,  and  to  conceal  all 
that  was  printed  of  the  same,  until  a  careful  examination  of 
the  book  by  Gentile  and  Jewish  Hebrew  scholars  would  be 
made. 

In  spite  of  the  assistance  of  many  prominent  men  in  the 
German  Empire,  who  petitioned  the  emperor  to  release  the 
books,  he  retained  his  decision  and  paid  no  attention  even  to 
the  special  personal  letter  from  the  King  of  Prussia  in  behalf 
of  Eisenmenger.  When  Eisenmenger  died  in  1704,  his  books 
had  not  yet  been  redeemed  from  their  captivity ;  and  only  in 
171 1  did  Frederick  I,  King  of  Prussia,  republish  the  book  at 
his  own  expense,  from  a  copy  which  was  in  the  hands  of  Eisen- 
menger's  heirs,  donating  all  the  copies  to  them.  It  would  take 
too  much  space  to  relate  the  proceedings  of  Eisenmenger  him- 
self, and  those  of  his  heirs  against  the  Jews  of  Frankfort,  and 
the  various  decisions  of  the  courts  from  the  time  of  Leopold 
to  that  of  the  Empress  Maria  Theresa.  We  do  not  deem  it 
necessary  to  recount  them,  since  they  are  in  no  way  related  to 
the  subject  of  the  persecution  of  the  Talmud.* 

We  have  only  to  say  that  in  the  eleven  years  since  the  book 
was  given  to  the  press  in  Frankfort,  until  the  circulation  was 
permitted  in  Konigsberg,  its  influence  was  weakened,  so  that 
it  did  not  cause  very  much  harm  at  that  time. 

Thereafter,  however,  many  anti-Semites  made  use  of  the 
material  gathered  in  this  book,  quoting  it  as  being  directly 
from  the  Talmud  without  mentioning  Eisenmenger;  probably 
because  of  his  notoriety  as  an  enemy  of  the  Jews. 

Concerning  the  book  itself,  we  would  refer  the  reader  to 
Professor  Franz  Delizeh's  book,  "Rohling's  Talmudjude," 
sixth  edition,  1881,  and  many  other  criticisms  of  Eisenmenger's 


*  The  details  are  given  in  Graetz's  ("  History  of  the  Jews"),  Hamelitz,  1888,  by 
David  Kahan. 


To6  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

work  by  Gentile  Hebrew  scholars,  such  as  Professor  Strack 
of  Berlin  and  others. 

We  have  refrained  from  stating  our  own  criticism  of  the 
misinterpretation  of  the  quotations  from  the  Talmud,  chiefly 
because  we  do  not  deem  it  necessary  to  study  Eisenmenger's 
book  for  criticism.  As  for  the  explanation  of  the  Talmud, 
we  do  not  need  to  use  him  as  our  guide ;  and  also  in  order  to 
avoid  apparent  partiality;  since  we  are  ourselves  the  bearers 
of  the  Talmud's  banner.     (See  App.,  No.  i6.) 


CHAPTER  XVII. 

THE  POLEMICS  AND  THE  ATTACKS  UPON  THE  TALMUD  IN  THE 
NINETEENTH  CENTURY. 

The  nineteenth  century  was  the  jubilee  of  the  Talmud's 
2,000  years  since  its  beginning,  and  the  twelfth  centiu^y  since 
its  conclusion,  in  which  it  overcome  all  attacks  directed  against 
it  and  remained  safe,  not  only  bodily  but  spiritually.  This 
did  not  prevent  the  anti-Semites  from  renewing  the  persecu- 
tions and  the  accusations  of  it  with  increased  energy. 

Although  the  accusations  were  not  brought  to  a  public  dis- 
pute, and  to  the  intervention  of  the  government,  still  the  pole- 
mics in  books  and  pamphlets  were  greatly  increased  by  different 
persons  in  different  countries.  We  do  not  desire  to  linger  on 
these  books,  as  their  discussion  would  take  up  too  much  time 
and  space,  still  we  cannot  refrain  from  mentioning  them  briefly, 
as  they  pertain  to  the  history  of  the  Talmud. 

In  1848,  A.  Buchner,  a  teacher  in  Warsaw,  printed  a  book, 
"Der  Talmud  in  Seine  Nichtigkeit,"  and  according  to  Strack, 
Jacob  Kittseer  also  printed  a  volume  called  "Inhalt  des  Tal- 
muds  und  seine  Autoritat,"  etc,  both  in  the  German  language. 
The  contents  of  these  two  books  were  mainly  attacks  upon 
attacks,  and  accusations  upon  accusations,  rained  down  upon 
the  Talmud  in  general  and  its  followers  in  particular. 

At  the  same  time  a  missionary,  McCaul,  printed  a  book  in 
the  English  language,  entitled  "The  Old  Paths,"  and  S.  Hoga, 
an  apostate  and  also  a  missionary,  translated  it  into  Hebrew. 
The  latter  edition  was  distributed  gratis  and  in  tens  of  thou- 


LYOTOSTANSKY  AT  THE  TIME  OF  ALEXANDER  III.    107 

sands  among  the  Hebrews.  We  cannot  deny  that  it  was  some- 
what effective,  as  it  caused  many  Jews  to  embrace  Christianity. 

At  about  the  same  time  Isaac  bar  Levinson  of  Kremenetz, 
named  the  Russian  Mendelssohn,  wrote  a  book,  entitled  "  Teuda 
b' Israel,"  in  which  he  collected  all  the  sayings  of  the  Talmud 
relating  to  the  following  topics,  (a)  that  every  Jew  is  obliged 
to  learn  the  language  of  his  country ;  (6)  to  engage  in  scientific 
piu-suits ;  (c)  that  he  must  learn  some  trade  and  occupy  him- 
self, if  possible,  with  agriculture,  and  (d)  that  he  must  be 
patriotic  to  his  country,  and  must  respect  the  laws  of  his  coun- 
try just  as  much  as  the  laws  of  the  "Torah,"  etc.,  etc.  This 
book  was  so  excellent  that  the  eye  of  Nicholas  I.,  Emperor  of 
Russia,  was  attracted  to  it  and  he  assisted  Levinson  both 
morally  and  financially.  Finally  he  presented  him  with  3,000 
roubles  to  enable  him  to  publish  his  later  works,  "  Zerubbabel," 
in  which  he  proved  the  falsehood  of  the  misinterpretations 
of  McCaul  in  every  respect,  "  Beth  Jehuda,"  and  "  Efes  Damin  " 
(no  blood),  written  against  the  blood  accusation.  His  books 
were  so  effective  that  as  a  result  McCaul's  books  were  almost 
ignored. 

The  later  affair  in  Alexander  II.'s  reign,  however,  we  intend 
to  elaborate  on  more  fully,  as  at  that  time  it  created  a  great 
stir  in  Russia. 

In  1876  a  Roman  Catholic  priest,  Lyotostansky  by  name, 
who  embraced  Greek  Catholicism,  published  a  book  in  the 
Russian  language  which  he  entitled,  "  Upotreblayut  li  Jewreay 
christansky  Krov?"  (Do  the  Jews  need  Christian  blood  for 
religious  purposes?) 

This  book,  which  contains  about  300  pages,  was  dedicated 
to  Alexander  III.,  then  Crown  Prince  of  Russia.  He  accepted 
the  dedication  with  thanks  to  the  author. 

Lyotostansky,  desiring  to  have  the  thanks  of  the  Crown 
Prince  publicly  made  known,  printed  posters  announcing  the 
Crown  Prince's  thanks  for  the  dedication,  and  set  them  up 
everywhere,  even  on  the  railroad  cars. 

The  dailies  and  periodicals  in  Russia  also  announced  the 
works  favorably  owing  to  the  fact  that  the  book  found  favor 
in  the  eyes  of  his  highness,  the  Crown  Prince.  The  contents 
of  the  book  are  chiefly  attacks  upon  the  Talmud,  accusing  it 
of  being  the  source  of  all  the  bad  customs  of  the  Jews,  etc. 


io8  THE  HISTORY  OF  THE  TALMUD. 

A  meeting  of  the  prominent  Jews  was  then  called  and  reso- 
lutions were  passed  as  follows : 

First,  that  Lyotostansky's  attacks  upon  the  Talmud  itself 
should  be  silently  ignored,  for  a  debate  on  this  subject  in 
Russia  would  do  the  Jews  more  harm  than  good. 

Second,  to  republish  and  distribute  the  voluminous  book 
of  Prof.  Chwolson,  who  was  a  Christian,  which  defends  the 
Talmud  in  general,  and  conclusively  proves,  both  theoretically 
and  practically,  that  the  blood  accusation  is  a  trumped-up  af- 
fair, and  that  all  investigations  in  many  countries  have  shown 
that  no  instance  occurred  in  which  the  Jews  used  Christian 
blood. 

Third,  to  republish  the  "Ukase"  (decree)  of  Nicholas  I., 
which  declared  that  no  blood  accusation  for  religious  purposes 
should  be  directed  against  the  Jews  as  a  people,  and  that  if  it 
should  happen  that  a  Jew  be  accused  of  murdering  a  Christian, 
he  should  be  tried  as  an  individual  merely. 

As  is  well  known,  there  are  people  who  endeavor  to  benefit 
themselves  from  all  current  calamities,  and  to  announce  them- 
selves as  leaders  without  considering  that  from  such  actions 
the  calamity  or  affliction  may  become  still  greater. 

At  that  time  there  were  two  such  men,  one  in  Russia  and 
one  in  Austria,  who  desiring  to  make  themselves  popular, 
endeavored  to  place  themselves  in  the  front  ranks  of  the  de- 
fenders of  Judaism  for  their  own  benefit. 

In  Russia  there  was  Alexander  Zederbaum,  publisher  of 
the  periodical  "Hamelitz"  in  St.  Petersburg,  a  man  of  little 
knowledge,  and  who  was  never  fitted  for  a  public  debate.  He 
challenged  Lyotostansky  to  a  public  debate,  which,  however, 
the  latter  declined  to  accept. 

The  real  leaders  of  Israel,  like  the  well  known  S.  I.  Fiinn  of 
Wilna  and  Perez  Smolensky,  editor  of  the  "Hashachar"  in 
Vienna,  and  others,  were  angry  because  of  Zederbaum 's 
challenge,  believing  that  such  a  challenge  had  caused  an  ex- 
tremely unfavorable  impression  upon  the  Russian  people, 
especially  as  the  newspapers  declared  that  Lyotostansky's 
declination  was  due  to  the  fact  that  the  alleged  leader  of  the 
Russian  Jews  was  an  ignoramus. 

The  very  learned  Lazar  Zweifel,  teacher  of  the  Rabbinical 
Seminary  in  Zhitomir,  who,  besides  publishing  a  great  book  in 


ZWEIFEL.  109 

Flebrew,  entitled  "The  Defender,"  against  Lyotostansky's 
book,  appealed  in  our  periodical  "  Hakol, "  Vol.  I.  No's  27  to  31, 
to  his  co-religionists  in  Russia  that  they  should  appoint  a  com- 
mittee to  petition  the  Czar,  Alexander  II.,  to  forbid  all  pole- 
mics about  the  blood  accusation  in  newspapers,  books  or 
pamphlets,  for  such  incitations  always  do  harm  to  the  govern- 
ment itself. 

However,  Zweifel's  appeal  was  a  voice  in  the  desert,  as  the 
attempts  upon  the  life  of  the  Czar,  in  which,  to  our  sorrow, 
some  of  our  race  took  part  at  that  time,  made  it  impossible  to 
bother  the  Czar  with  such  petitions. 

We  may  say,  however,  that  even  in  this  case  the  Talmud 
itself  was  saved,  and  the  government  did  not  stop  the  publi- 
cation and  circulation  of  it  in  Russia  and  even  the  study  of 
it  in  the  Jewish  schools  and  institutions.  Even  in  the  curric- 
ulums  of  the  institutes  for  Hebrew  teachers,  established  by 
the  government,  some  tracts  of  the  Talmud  were  inserted. 

Alas,  we  cannot  say  that  the  blood  accusation  by  Lyotos- 
tansky  had  no  effect ;  as  in  1882,  there  were  massacres  in  many 
cities  where  Jews  dwelt.  Although  these  were  secretly  insti- 
gated by  the  government  itself  from  a  political  standpoint, 
the  provoking  of  the  mob  was  on  the  basis  of  the  blood  ac- 
cusation.* 

CHAPTER  XVIII.  .y.-. 

THE   AFFAIR   OF   ROHLING-BLOCH. 

Dr.  August  Rohling,  professor  in  Prague,  wrote  a  pamphlet, 
the  "Talmudjude,"  sixth  edition,  1877,  in  the  German  lan- 
guage, the  previous  editions  of  which  were  translated  into 
many  languages,  in  which  he  painted  the  Talmud  itself  and 
all  past  Talmudical  laws  in  very  black  colors.  The  material 
in  all  Rohling's  writings  (which  are  named  in  the  previously 

*  In  all  probability  the  discussion  in  this  chapter  will  seem  very  brief  and  almost 
inadequate,  but  the  reason  for  this  is  that  most  of  the  details  of  this  chapter  are 
related  at  length  in  our  weekly  "  Hakol  "  of  1877.  Then,  again,  the  entire  matter 
is  not  so  interesting  or  so  important  to  warrant  giving  it  more  space  here.  Of  far 
more  interest  is  the  works  of  Professor  Rohlings  and  their  results  to  which  we  shall 
give  considerable  space  in  our  next  chapter,  especially  as  we  ourselves  were  greatly 
taken  up  with  this  affair  and  were  compelled  by  the  circumstances  to  write  four  books 
bout  this  affair,  three  in  Hebrew  and  one  in  German. 


no  THE   HISTORY   OF  THE  TALMUD. 

mentioned  introduction  of  Strack,  page  95)  were  taken  from 
Eisenmenger,  and  from  other  men  hired  by  him,  as  will  be 
seen  further  on.  Although  the  above  pamphlet  was  received 
with  great  joy  by  the  enemies  of  the  Jews,  who  quoted  him  as 
a  great  authority,  nevertheless,  it  would  have  been  nothing 
more  than  a  mere  piece  of  literary  work  which  could  create 
no  harm  to  the  Jews  had  not  something  unusual  occurred 
which  put  a  different  aspect  to  the  affair. 

Joseph  Samuel  Bloch  who  was  at  that  time  a  Rabbi  in 
a  small  town  of  "  Florisdorf , "  and  who  was  anxious  to  get  a 
name  for  himself,  considered  all  Rohling's  work  as  a  means 
of  attaining  his  desire.  He  understood  that  if  he  should 
challenge  Rohling  to  a  debate  and  should  accuse  him  of  per- 
jury and  falsehood,  and  thus  compel  Rohling  to  sue  him  for 
libel  and  insult,  this  would  give  him  a  great  name  and  the  Jew- 
ish congregations  of  Austria,  and  especially  of  Vienna,  would 
be  compelled  to  defend  Bloch  with  all  their  power,  for  the  case 
would  not  be  Bloch  vs.  Rohling,  but  the  Talmud  vs.  Rohling. 

Notwithstanding  that  at  this  time  the  Israelite  congrega- 
tion of  Vienna  was  full  of  great  men  and  scholars  like  the 
famous  Dr.  Jellinek,  Chief  Rabbi  Giidemann,  etc.,  etc.,  who 
deemed  it  better  to  pay  no  attention  at  all  to  Rohling's  work, 
considering  it  as  a  mere  literary  piece  of  work,  and  the  criticism 
of  which  they  thought  better  to  leave  to  Gentile  Hebrew  scholars 
such  as  Delitzsch,  Strack,  etc.,  who  had  already  criticized  Rohl- 
ings  works.  Bloch  wrote  an  article  in  a  weekly  paper  attacking 
Rohling  most  furiously  and  reviling  him  terribly  with  every 
possible  epithet,  including  the  charge  of  perjury. 

Bloch 's  desire  was  then  realized,  for  Rohling  not  being 
able  to  remain  silent,  secured  the  services  of  the  very  great 
lawyer,  Robert  Pattai,  M.P.,  and  brought  suit  against  Bloch 
for  libel. 

The  Israelite  congregation  of  Vienna,  although  they  were 
very  much  incensed  at  Bloch  for  his  deed,  nevertheless  felt 
themselves  compelled  to  secure  a  lawyer  of  equal  ability  to 
Pattai  for  the  defense  of  Bloch,  the  result  of  which  will  be  seen 
further  on. 

Circumstances  helped  Rohling  to  find  an  apostate  Jew 
named  Ahron  Briman,  pseudonym  Dr.  Justus,  who  wrote  a, 
book  for  him  named,  "  Judenspicgel,"  composed  of  100  pas- 


ROHLING— BLOCH. 


Ill 


sages,  alleged  to  be  found  in  the  Jewish  code,  "Schulchan 
Aruch,"  according  to  the  ordinances  of  the  Talmud  against 
Christianity,  and  asserted  that  the  whole  Talmud  consists  of 
such  passages. 

-This  book  naturally  created  a  tremendously  unfavorable 
impression  upon  the  whole  Christian  world,  and  several  papers 
that  were  anti-Semitically  inclined  annoimced  the  contents  of 
the  book.  One  of  these  papers  was  "  Die  Merkur,"  in  the  City 
of  Miinster,  which  quoted  many  passages  of  the  book  and  at 
the  same  time  inserting  a  glaring  editorial  against  the  Jews. 
The  District  Attorney  finding  this  article  to  be  an  incitation 
against  a  race,  brought  suit  against  the  editor  of  the  paper. 
This  trial  occurred  December,  1883,  and  in  order  that  the  reader 
may  have  some  idea  of  the  proceedings,  we  translate  in  our 
Appendix  some  pages  of  our  German  work,  "Der  Schulchan 
Aruch  und  seine  Beziehungen  zu  den  Juden  und  Nicht  juden." 
(See  Appendix,  No.  20.) 

To  illustrate  who  the  person  Ahron  Briman  the  assistant 
of  Rohling  was,  we  have  only  to  translate  a  few  lines  written 
by  us  about  him  in  our  "Hakol,"  No.  191,  page  117,  March 
19,  1885  :*  "  Anti-Semitism  was  stricken  very  hard  this  year. 
All  their  leaders  are  taken  one  by  one  to  the  prison,  and  they 
will  have  to  give  an  account  for  their  deeds  to  the  judges. 
With  the  imprisonment  of  Briman,  Rohling' s  sources  were 
revealed  and  annulled,  as  his  right  hand,  Briman,  or  Dr. 
Brimanus,  or  Justus,  all  of  which  names  are  identical,  is  now 
behind  the  bars,  and  the  newspapers  are  now  recounting  his 
sins  one  by  one. 

We,  however,  say  that  he  and  all  his  literature  are  not 
worthy  of  such  an  honor.  There  is  no  doctor,  nor  learned 
man,  no  distinguished  being,  no  Satan,  but  a  simple,  ordinary 
swindler,  who  endeavors  by  everything  that  comes  to  his 
hand  to  deceive  the  people.  He  (according  to  his  biography 
which  is  pubHshed  in  the  dailies  of  this  week)  has  made  a 
study  of  the  Talmud  and  the  Schulchan  Aruch  only  that 
they  might  serve  as  his  business  schemes.  He  was  a  student 
in  the  college  of  Hildesheimer,  where  it  was  easy  to  imbibe 


*  At  the  time  he  was  imprisoned  for  many  crimes  and  the  dailies  wrote  con- 
tinuously about  this  in  long  articles. 


112  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

santification  and  really  become  sanctified  in  the  city  of  Hague. 
To  be  still  more  purified  he  washed  himself  in  the  holy  waters 
of  Protestantism.  Seeing,  however,  that  this  act  would  not 
bring  him  much  fruit,  for  to  be  a  "Pfarrer"  (minister)  one 
must  labor  diligently,  and  this  he  would  not  do,  he  set  all 
this  deed  aside  at  one  stroke  and  swerved  over  to  the  Catholic 
faith. 

And  then  he  followed  his  nature  to  catch  in  his  net  some 
young  girls,  who  had  confidence  in  him,  and  going  further 
in  this  way  the  attention  of  the  police  was  called  to  this,  who 
put  a  stop  to  him. 

For  whom  then  such  a  fuss?  We  are  neither  a  prophet 
nor  the  son  of  a  prophet,  but  nevertheless  we  recognized  his 
character  from  his  so-called  literature  even  as  far  back  as 
1883.  As  the  following  are  our  words  in  our  pamphlet  "  Krit- 
ischer  Ueberblick  uber  den  Judenspiegelprozess  in  Munster," 
December,  1884,  page  8,  footnote  11,  (when  we  were  not 
aware  who  the  author  was) :  "If  such  would  be  written 
by  a  Jew  he  would  be  named  criminal,  deceiver,  misanthrope, 
etc."  True,  that  when  we  wrote  this,  we  did  not  know  that 
he  was  a  Jew,  and  now  we  see  that  he  was.  For  this,  how- 
ever, we  have  only  to  be  grateful  to  him  because  he  left  the 
Jewish  fight  before  he  wrote  his  hateful  "  Judenspiegel," 
and  also  before  he  gave  his  miserable  material  to  Rohling. 
This,  because  the  anti-Semites  can  no  longer  blame  the  Jews 
on  account  of  this  person  as  they  brought  him  over  to  be- 
come their  ally. 

But  what  became  of  the  suit  of  Rohling  against  Bloch? 
We  have  to  give  the  full  credit  to  Dr.  Kopp  who  forced  Rohling 
to  withdraw  his  complaint  seeing  that  according  to  the  tes- 
timony of  his  co-religionist  scholars  he  could  not  win  his  case. 
And  this  may  be  seen  from  the  book  which  Kopp  has  pub- 
lished in  Leipzig,  1886,  second  edition,  (See  criticism  of 
it  in  Strack,  page  95.)  We,  however,  deem  it  necessary  to 
give  the  details  of  this  book,  in  order  to  defend  the  Talmud, 
as  this  will  throw  light  upon  all  past  and  present  accusations 
against  the  Talmud.  As  we  have  done  this  in  our  Hebrew 
monthly  "  Morgenblitze,"  Vienna,  1886,  we  have  only  to 
translate  here  a  part  of  our  review  to  the  book  of  Kopp  named 
**  Zur  Judenfrage  nach  den  Akten  des  Prozesses  Rohling-Bloch 


KOPP  AND  HIS  BOOK.  113 

von  Dr.  Joseph  Kopp  Hofgerichtsadovkat  Zu  Wien,"  Leipzig 
1886: 

"  Many  books  are  lying  before  us  for  review  or  for  announce- 
ment. However,  the  book  named  above  is  imique  in  every 
respect.  It  cannot  be  criticised  either  way,  and  the  same 
is  true  of  the  author  of  this  book  as  he  himself  does  not  give 
his  own  opinion  concerning  the  subject  matter  of  the  book. 
Nevertheless,  we  may  fully  say  that  it  is  a  scientific  book  in 
every  respect. 

"  The  author  of  this  book  is  a  Gentile,  a  prominent  member 
of  the  bar  in  Vienna,  and,  according  to  his  own  testimony,  he 
knows  neither  the  Hebrew  language  nor  the  talmudic  and 
post-talmudic  literature  at  all.  Notwithstanding  this,  the 
book,  as  a  whole,  sanctifies  the  Talmud  and  all  post-tal- 
mudical  literature. 

It  can  not  be  taken  as  a  defender  of  the  Talmud  because 
of  arguments,  as  the  whole  book  contains  merely  facts  which 
can  never  be  denied  and  which  prove  clearly  that  the  Talmud 
and  its  banner-bearers  are  clear  of  every  accusation  and  of 
every  suspicion  concerning  the  love  of  man,  be  he  who  he 
may,  even  according  to  the  present  laws  and  estabHshed 
etiquette. " 

The  above  facts  were  not  given  by  the  author  himself, 
but  by  two  well-known  Gentile  Hebrew  scholars,  upon  whom 
the  Supreme  Court  of  Vienna  threw  the  burden  of  translating 
four  hundred  passages  and  quotations.  These  the  Jew- 
haters  have  used  as  a  sample  of  the  wretchedness  of  the 
Jewish  literature.  The  chief  aim  of  the  Jew-haters  was  to 
belittle  the  Talmud,  which  is  the  pillar  of  the  Jewish  race. 

The  author  of  this  work,  whom  the  Israelite  congregation 
of  Vienna  choose  to  defend  Bloch  in  the  case  of  Rohling- 
Bloch,  has  done  his  work  well.  He  gathered  all  the  quo- 
tations quoted  by  Rohling  in  his  writings  from  both  the  Tal- 
mud itself  as  well  as  from  post-talmudical  literature,  those 
which  were  written  in  the  Hebrew  language  and  also  in  other 
languages,  by  converted  Jews  who  reached  then  the  dignity 
of  Catholic  priests.  All  these  quotations  he  divided  into 
two  groups,  (a)  the  quotations  in  Hebrew  he  brought  before 
the  vSupreme  Court,  who  appointed  Gentile  Hebrew  scholars 
to  translate  them  correctly  under  oath,  into  the  German 
8 


114  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

language;  (b)  the  quotations  in  the  living  languages  he  ex- 
amined himself.  However,  when  he  found  a  quotation  in 
another  language  besides  German  he  submitted  it  to  the 
sworn  interpreter  of  the  Supreme  Court  for  translation.  Then, 
when  both  the  translations  of  the  quotations  by  the  Jew^- 
haters  and  the  translations  of  the  same  by  those  who  were 
appointed  by  the  Court  appeared  before  the  court,  it  was 
revealed  that  the  alleged  quotations  of  Rohling  were  not 
quotations  of  the  Talmud  at  all,  but  merely  falsehoods.  And 
thus  was  it  proved  that  every  line  written  by  Rohling  in  his 
"Talmudjude,"  "Antichrist  and  Das  Ende  der  Welt," 
"The  Catechism  des  19  Jahrhundert  fur  Juden  und  Prote- 
stanten  "  (in  which  he  praises  the  Spanish  Inquisition,  de- 
claring it  holy  to  the  Lord  and  to  the  Catholic  Church),  "  Das 
Salomonische  Spruchbuch,"  "Meine  Antworten  an  die  Rab- 
biner,"  "Die  Polemik  und  die  Menschenopfer  des  Rabbinis- 
mus,"  and  also  in  his  letter  to  Ghetza  Anhadi  of  June  19, 
1883,  were  all  fabrications  which  never  existed  since  the 
creation  of  the  world. 

"  If  such  a  falsehood  would  not  be  revealed  by  the  learned 
Christians  under  oath  it  would  be  impossible  to  believe  that 
a  man  whose  dignity  came  from  a  professorship  of  a  university 
should  act  so.  The  contents  of  this  book  are  as  follows: 
All  quotations  which  were  translated  by  the  experts  as  well 
as  those  which  Rohling  himself  falsely  quoted,*  Dr.  Kopp 
arranged  them  thus,  preface,  instruction,  the  story  proceeding 
the  trial,  the  proceedings  of  the  trial,  the  conclusion  derived 
from  the  true  testimony  which  was  obtained  from  non-Jews ; 
i.e.,  the  Bishop  of  Leon  Agobardus,  Paul  Medriki,  Rabbi 
Maldava,  Rabbi  Mendel,  August  Fabius,  Gerhard  Tickson, 
Franz  Dclitzsch  and  August  Wunsche. 

"  After  sub-dividing  the  answers  of  the  above  scholars  in 
two  parts,  (a)  those  which  are  mentioned  in  the  Talmud,  etc., 
in  general,  and  (b)  where  it  speaks  of  the  subjects  in  partic- 
ular, and  this  he  again  sub-divided  into  nine  groups;  i.e.,  (i) 
about  injuring  of  Gentile  property,  (2)  harming  their  lives, 
(3)  partiality  in  cases  where  Christians  come  before  Jewish 


*  The  author  Kopp  points  out  also  many  quotations  quoted  by  Rohling  from 
books  which  never  existed. 


EXILARCHS.  115 

judges,  (4)  the  application  of  animals'  and  beasts'  names 
to  Christians  by  Jews,  (5)  about  the  oath  of  the  Jews,  (6) 
about  Jewish  witnesses,  (7)  the  Jews  against  the  Christians 
in  the  laws  of  slaughtering  cattle,  (8)  about  the  flattering 
and  deceiving  practised  by  Jews:  divided  into  two  para- 
graphs, (a)  the  non-responsibility  of  the  Jews  (see  Appendix 
No.  19),  (b)  about  the  infallibility  of  the  Rabbis  concerning 
the  blood  accusation,  and  (9)  the  conclusion  of  the  author 
himself.     All  these  comprise  196  royal  octavo  pages. 

"  It  is  self-evident  that  such  a  book  is  above  criticism,  for, 
as  we  said  before,  the  book  contains  only  facts,  viz:  (i)  the 
translations  under  oath  of  the  well-known  Christian  scholars, 
and  (2)  the  falsehood  of  Rohling's  quotations  translated  into 
German  when  compared  with  the  text,  and  this  is  all  the 
more  evident  when  it  is  known  that  Rohling,  after  seeing  all 
these  facts,  not  only  withdrew  his  complaint  but  pardoned 
even  the  most  rigorous  accusation  of  perjury  which  Bloch  ac- 
cused him  of  in  the  past,  saying  that  he  was  always  ready  to 
swear  falsely  at  any  time  if  only  it  would  cause  harm  to  the 
Jews." 

CHAPTER  XIX. 

EXILARCHS ;   THE  TALMUD  AT  THE  STAKE  AND  ITS  DEVELOPMENT 
AT   THE    PRESENT   TIME, 

Since  the  colleges  were  open  in  Palestine  and  Babylon, 
after  the  destruction  of  the  Temple,  there  were  two  kinds  of 
rulers:  the  Palestinian  were  called  princes  (Nassies),  and  the 
Babylonian  were  called  Exilarchs  (Rashee  Hagula).  The 
former  are  well  known  to  the  students,  as  every  one  of  them 
is  mentioned  in  the  Tahnud,  and  their  biographical  sketches 
are  written  in  many  books  by  modem  historians,  also  in  our 
historical  and  literary  introduction  to  our  new  edition. 

The  Exilarchs,  however,  who  are  seldom  mentioned  in  the 
Talmud,  are  almost  forgotten  by  the  historians.  Notwithstand- 
ing that  the  duration  of  their  reign  is  about  450  years,  no 
arrangement  of  their  names  and  times  is  to  be  found  in  their 
hicto'^y. 

It  is  true  that  some  of.  their  names  are  mentioned  in  "  Seder 


ii6  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

Ualam  Zuta,"  "Machzor  Witree"  and  "  Yuchssin,"  but  it  is 
so  confused  that  no  order  can  be  found  out. 

We  have  to  be  grateful  to  the  learned  Abraham  Krochmal, 
who  first  took  up  this  matter,  and  wrote  an  excellent  long  arti- 
cle of  seventy-three  pages  in  his  "  Scholein  zum  babylonischen 
Talmud." 

His  suggestions,  however,  though  of  a  great  genius,  are 
scholastical  and  "were  criticised  by  many  in  periodicals  and 
pamphlets.  Finally  Felix  Lazarus,  in  the  "  Jahrbiicher  "of  N. 
Brill,  issued  a  separate  pamphlet  about  this  subject,  the  result 
of  which  the  reader  will  find  in  a  list  further  on. 

And  as  many  of  the  Exilarchs  were  the  heads  of  the  colleges 
in  Sura,  Pumbeditha  and  Nehardea  and  took  a  great  part  in 
the  development  of  the  Talmud,  they  must  not  be  omitted 
from  the  History  of  the  Talmud. 

List  of  Exilarchs* 

Nahum  Johanan  Shepot 140-1 70 

Huna  I 1 70-2 10 

Uqba  1 210-240 

Huna  IL,  his  son 240-260 

Nathan  L  b'Huna 260-270 

Nehemiah  1 270-313 

Mar  Uqba  II 3^3~337 

Huna  III.,  his  brother 337-35° 

Aba  Mari,  his  son 350-370 

Nathan  II 370-400 

Chanan,  son  of  Aba  Mari 400-4 1 5 

Huna  IV 41 5-442 

Mar  Zutra  I.,  son  of  Chanan 442-455 

Chanan  II 455-460 

*  We  are  unable  to  give  their  biographical  sketches  in  a  clear  way,  as  in  many 
instances  we  agree  with  Krochmal,  whose  arrangement  is  much  different  from 
Lazarus's  list  and  the  discussion  would  take  up  too  much  space,  which  we  cannot 
spare.  We  have  only  to  say  that  many  of  the  Exilarchs  were  only  holding  their 
offices,  but  were  not  so  learned  as  to  take  part  in  the  colleges.  They  were  appointed 
by  inheritance  and  according  to  the  excellence  of  their  morality.  All  of  them  were 
descendants  of  David's  kingdom,  direct  from  Solomon.  The  Princes  of  Palestine, 
who  were  also  descendants  of  the  same  kingdom,  were  only  from  their  mother's  side 
descended  from  Shepetiah  b'  Abital. 


THE   TALMUD   AT   THE   STAKE.  117 

Huna  v.,  son  of  Zutra 465-475 

Huna  VI.,  son  of  Chanan 484-508 

Mar  Zutra  II.  (Achunai) 508-520 

Huna  Mar  Chanan 5  20-560 

Kafnai 560-580 

Chanini 580-590 

Bostanai -660 

With  the  conclusion  of  the  first  volume  of  this  work  at  the 
beginning  of  the  twentieth  century,  we  would  invite  the  reader 
to  take  only  a  glance  over  the  past  of  the  Talmud,  in  which  he 
will  see  that  in  almost  every  century  and  place  of  the  different 
countries  in  Europe,  the  Talmud  was  condemned  to  the  stake. 
By  a  glance  over  the  present  time,  however,  he  will  see  that 
not  only  was  the  Talmud  not  destroyed,  but  was  so  saved  that 
not  even  a  single  letter  of  it  is  missing ;  and  now  it  is  flourishing 
to  such  a  degree  as  cannot  be  foxmd  in  its  past  history,  as  will  be 
seen  further  on. 

The  details  of  all  the  persecutions  of  the  Talmud  were  given 
in  the  preceding  chapters.  Here  we  give  a  list  of  the  places 
and  dates  in  which  it  was  at  the  stake,  as  well  as  the  names  of 
the  persecutors. 

The  Talmud  at  the  Stake. 

Time.  Place.  Persecutor. 

1244  Paris  King  Louis  IX. 

1244  Rome  Innocently. 

1248  Paris  Cardinal  Legate  Odo 

1299  Paris  Philip  the  Fair 

1309  Paris  Philip  the  Fair 

1 3 19  Toulouse  Lous 

1322. — Burned  in  Rome  by  order  of  Pope  John  XXII.,  and 
accompanied  by  robbery  and  murder  of  the  Jews  by  the  mob. 

i553__Rome:  Pope  Julius  III.— Similar  burnings  by  the 
same  order  took  place  in  Barcelona,  Venice,  Romagna,  Urbino 
and  Pesaro. 

Here  three  wagons  full  of  books  were  burned  ;  but  first  they  were  carried  through 
the  streets  of  the  city,  while  royal  officers  proclaimed  publicly  that  their  condem- 
nation was  due  to  the  insults  to  Christianity  which  they  contained.  (See  also 
note,  vol.  ii.  p.  52.) 


ii8  THE    HISTORY   OF   THE   TALMUD. 

1554.— Burned  by  hundreds  and  thousands  in  Ancona, 
Ferrara,  Mantua,  Padua,  Candia  and  Ravenna. 

1558. — Rome:   Cardinal  Ghislieri. 

1559. — Rome:  Sextus  Sinensis. 

1557.— Poland:  Talmud  burned  because  of  the  charge 
made  against  the  Jews  that  they  used  the  blood  of  Christian 
children  in  their  ceremonies.  This  occurred  during  the  Frankist 
disturbances. 

Such  was  the  past  of  the  Talmud  which  we  hope  will  never 
be  repeated.  Now  a  glance  at  the  end  of  the  last  century  and 
the  beginning  of  this  one. 

The  colleges  for  the  study  of  the  Talmud  are  increasing 
almost  in  every  place  where  Israel  dwells,  especially  in  this 
country  where  millions  are  gathered  for  the  funds  of  the  two 
great  colleges,  the  Hebrew  Union  College  of  Cincinnati  and  the 
Jewish  Theological  Seminary  of  America  in  New  York,  in 
which  the  chief  study  is  the  Talmud  and  its  post-talmudical 
literature.  The  heads  of  these  colleges  are  of  the  most  learned 
scholars  of  their  time,  who  are  very  careful  in  selecting  the  pro- 
fessors and  instructors  for  these  institutions  of  learning.  We 
were  honored  to  be  present  at  some  lectures  which  the  late 
great  Talmudist,  Professor  Mielziner,  delivered  before  the 
senior  class  in  Cincinnati,  from  which  we  derived  great  pleasure 
and,  we  may  also  say  that  in  some  instances  they  were  to  a 
degree  instructive  to  us  in  our  task  of  translating  the  Talmud. 

What  concerns  the  theological  seminary  in  our  own  city,  in 
which  we  were  not  permitted  (see  App.  No.  20)  to  hear  the  lec- 
tures on  the  Talmud,  we  are  also  in  the  full  belief  that  it  will  do 
much  for  the  study  and  development  of  the  Talmud  in  this 
and  in  future  generations.  We  use  the  statement  of  the  Tal- 
mud, "One  may  be  certain  that  a  master  will  not  leave  out 
from  his  hand  a  thing  imperfect,"  and  as  the  dean  of  this 
faculty  is  not  only  a  learned  man  but  also  an  experienced 
teacher,  there  is  great  hope  that  he  will  do  all  in  his  power  to 
select  instructors  and  perfect  lecturers  for  this  institution. 

There  are  also  in  our  city  houses  of  learning  (Jeshibath)  for 
the  study  of  the  Talmud  in  the  lower  East  Side,  where  many 
young  men  are  studying  the  Talmud  every  day. 

We  are  also  glad  to  notice  that  among  Gentiles  the  study 


GENTILES   STUDY   THE   TALMUD.  119 

of  the  Talmud  is  more  or  less  spreading,  as  we  have  the  experi- 
ence that  a  great  number  of  Gentiles  and  almost  all  the  theo- 
logical seminaries  and  public  libraries  subscribed  to  the  Tal- 
mud, and  also  many  queries  concerning  it  frequently  came  to  us 
from  Gentiles.  This  all  shows  that  the  study  of  the  Talmud 
among  Gentiles  is  not  very  rare. 

The  Jewish  Encyclopaedia  (see  App.  21)  which  is  in  pro- 
gress now  is  also  a  great  help  to  the  study  and  development  of 
the  Talmud,  as  all  the  treatises  of  the  Talmud  are  and  will  be 
separately  named,  with  many  particulars  which  will  cause 
many  readers  to  study  the  Talmud  itself. 


APPENDIX  A. 

No.  I.  In  the  history  of  the  "Oral  Law,"  Part  I.,  by  I.  H. 
Weiss,  the  reader  will  find  an  account  of  the  deeds  of  the  Samari- 
tans in  detail,  though  only  a  few  instances  are  dealt  with. 

No.  2.  We  may  refer  the  reader  to  the  book,  "Maamar  Hai- 
shuth,"  by  Holdheim,  Berlin,  who  explains  the  belief  of  the 
Sadducees,  and  their  opposition  to  the  Pharisees. 

No.  3.  We  agree  with  those  who  say  that  the  tearing  of  the  skin 
at  the  performance  of  circumcision  was  discovered  since  the  Israel- 
ites had  begun  to  undo  circumcision ;  at  the  time  when  the  theatres 
were  opened  by  Nero,  and  the  Jews  who  had  to  go  naked  there  to 
wrestle  with  the  beasts,  were  ashamed  to  be  distinguished  by  this 
peculiarity.  For  this  purpose  the  tearing  of  the  skin  was  devised. 
(See  Tract  Sabbath,  p.  307,  in  the  Mishna:  "One  who  was  circum- 
cised without  having  had  the  skin  torn  open  is  considered  uncir- 
cumcised.")  To  this  there  is  neither  any  source  in  the  Scriptures 
nor  any  tradition  mentioned  in  the  Gemara.  Some  scholars  don't 
agree  with  us.  (See  the  letter  of  A.  Bernstein  in  Tract  Roshhos- 
honah,  in  the  first  edition).  We,  however,  base  our  opinion  on 
the  fact  that  we  doubt  whether  Antiochus  Epiphanes  would  have 
prohibited  a  circumcision,  customary  then  among  the  neighboring 
nations;  and  therefore  it  seems  to  us  that  he  prohibited  only  the 
tearing  of  the  skin  which  had  been  ordained  by  the  Pharisees. 

No.  4.  See  our  brief  introduction  in  Tract  Sabbath.  Our 
opinion  is  that  some  written  Mishnayoth  had  been  in  existence 
long  before.  Also  Jellinek's  Kuntres  Haklalim,  Note  4,  for  the 
opinion  of  the  French  and  Spanish  scholars  about  it.  Also  I.  H. 
Weiss  and  our  "Hakol,"  Vol.  VI.,  p.  11. 

The  London  Athenaeum,  VI.,  808,  has  cited  our  statement  in 
the  general  brief  introduction,  p.  15:  "Most  of  the  Mishnayoth 
date  from  a  very  early  period,  and  originated  with  the  students  of 
the  Jewish  Academies  which  existed  since  the  days  of  Jehoshaphat, 
King  of  Judah  [2  Chron.  xxii.,  9]:  'And  they  thought  in  Judah, 
and  with  them  was  the  book  of  the  law  of  the  Lord,  and  they  moved 
about  through  all  the  cities  of  Judah  and  taught  the  people,'  "  as 
ridiculous.  This,  however,  does  not  terrify  us,  as  notes  of  com- 
mentaries on  the  text  of  the  Scriptures,  the  whole  or  in  part,  have 


122  APPENDIX  A. 

been  found  In  the  hands  of  students  from  the  time  colleges  had 
been  founded ;  and  this  opinion  of  ours  has  met  with  approval  from 
many  contemporary  scholars. 

No.  5.  See  our  "Hakol,"  Vol.  VI.,  in  which  we  state  that  the 
Gentiles  who  desired  to  embrace  Judaism,  asking  Hillel  to  convert 
them,  were  men  of  rank,  for  a  common  man  would  not  dare  to  make 
such  a  stipulation  as  to  be  a  high  priest  in  Israel. 

No.  6.  The  belief  in  the  divinity  of  Jesus  became  acute  at  a  much 
later  period,  when  the  heathens  accepted  this  fight  according  to  all 
modern  scholars.* 

No.  7.  (See  App.  No.  4.)  We  shall  also  come  to  this  matter  in 
our  later  notes. 

No.  8.  In  our  translation  we  have  added  the  Tract  Ebel  Rab- 
bathi,  or  Sema'Hoth,  as  the  law  of  mourning  was  taken  from  this 
tract.  We  have,  therefore,  added  it  to  the  tract  "Minor  Festivals," 
which  also  treats  of  mourning  on  the  festival  days.  What  concerns 
the  beginning  of  "  Section  of  Seeds  "  with  the  tract  "  Benedictions," 
see  I.  H.  Weiss  for  another  reason  which  does  not  seem  probable 
to  us. 

The  names  of  all  the  treatises  of  the  tracts  of  each  section,  and 
of  their  chapters  in  detail,  the  reader  will  find  in  books  written 
for  this  purpose  by  Strack,  Mielziner,  and  also  in  the  encyclo- 
paedias, especially  in  the  Jewish  Encyclopaedia,  f  We  deem  it  not 
necessary  to  name  them  here  as  we  give  at  the  end  of  Vol  II.  the 
synopsis  of  each  tract,  translated  and  published  up  to  date. 

*  What  concerns  Ben  Zakkai,  according  to  Hcilprin,  in  his  "  Seder  Hadoroth," 
and  other  authorities,  Johanan  b.  Zakkai  died  72  years  A.c,  that  is,  about  forty  years 
after  the  death  of  Jesus,  at  which  time  the  followers  of  the  latter  had  already  begun 
to  dispute  with  their  Jewish  colleagues.  We  also  find  a  disciple  of  Johanan  b.  Zak- 
kai whom  he  very  much  respected,  very  friendly  to,  and  pleased  with,  Jacob  of  the 
village  Sachnon,  who  was  one  of  the  first  disciples  of  Jesus.     Hence  our  conjecture. 

f  Speaking  of  the  encyclopsedias,  we  are  sorry  to  say  that  in  spite  of  the  adver- 
tising of  their  completeness,  with  all  additional  information  in  every  branch  up  to  the 
time  of  publication,  one  can  not  rely  upon  them.  It  seems  to  us  that  they  omit  the 
mention  of  books  of  great  interest.  According  to  our  knowledge,  books  the  subject 
of  which  is  interesting  to  most  students,  not  to  speak  of  whether  they  are  well  done 
or  not,  ought  to  be  mentioned  and,  if  necessary,  with  a  remark  about  the  quality  ol 
the  books.  Now  take  the  "Century  Encyclopaedia-Dictionary  and  Atlas,"  which  is 
advertised  as  the  best  of  its  kind  and  which  is  published  in  New  York  City,  and  if 
we  look  under  the  subject  "Talmud,"  the  fourteen  or  fifteen  volumes  of  the  first 
English  translation  of  the  "  Talmud"  by  Michael  L.  Rodkinson,  published  in  the 
same  city,  are  not  to  be  found,  although  about  175  daily  papers  and  periodicals,  here 
and  abroad,  noticed  and  reviewed  the  publication.  The  same  is  the  case  with  Apple- 
ton's  new  encyclopaedia  under  the  same  title  "  Talmud."  Here  also  Rodkinson's 
translation  is  not  mentioned,  though  some  small  tracts  which  were  translated  into 
Germaa  are  mentioned.     Still  more  remarkable  is  it,  that  the  reviser  of  this  article 


APPENDIX  A.  „3 

No.  9.  Details  will  be  given  in  the  second  volume  of  this  book 
in  the  introduction  to  our  new  edition. 

No.  10.  In  our  book  mentioned,  we  also  show  additions  made 
by  the  opponents  of  the  Talmud  for  the  purpose  of  degrading  it. 
For  examples,  see  Vol.  II.,  Part  III.* 

No.  II.  We  shall  come  to  this  matter  in  the  second  volume  of 
this  book,  in  the  chapter  devoted  to  the  Ethics  of  the  Talmud. 

No.  12.  Almost  all  ritual  poets  composed  after  the  Talmudic 
Hagada,  Sometimes  comments  will  be  found,  by  a  critical  eye, 
there  on  the  Hagada  or  even  Halakha,  as  the  ritual  poems  relating 
to  Passover,  contain  almost  all  the  laws  of  Passover. 

No.  13.  His  decree  was  only  for  the  German,  French  and  Polish 
Jews,  and  extended  only  until  the  end  of  the  five  thousandth  year 
after  creation.  However,  the  above-named  Jews  accepted  his  de- 
cree as  extending  indefinitely.  In  Syria  and  in  Palestine,  however, 
where  his  decree  was  not  accepted,  some  of  the  Portuguese  Jews, 
known  there  as  Franks,  marry  two  wives  even  at  the  present  time 
in  such  cases  when  the  first  wife  is  barren. 

No.  14.  See  "Measseph  Nidachim,"  Vol.  X.,  by  A.  E.  Harkavy, 
where  he  proves  that  in  Spain  had  existed  houses  of  learning  from 
ancient  times  and  that  the  Gaonim  of  Babylonia  had  relations  with 
them ;  and  in  many  places  they  tried  to  follow  their  customs.  (See 
there). 

No.  15.   As  to  what  were  these  places,  and  who  the  disputants, 

on  the  "  Talmud  "  was  Dr.  Richard  Gottheil,  who  is  one  of  the  editors  of  the  Jewish 
Encyclopsedia,  and  who  himself  wrote  a  criticism  in  "  The  Bookman"  in  1897  upon 
this  translation.  What  concerns  the  Jewish  Encyclopaedia,  which  is  devoted  only  to 
matters  relating  to  the  Jews,  one  is  still  more  astonished  on  examining  its  bibliogra- 
phies. On  pages  390  and  394  of  vol.  ii.,  etc.,  etc.,  the  contents  of  Tracts  Baba  Batra 
Metzia  and  Kama  are  explained.  In  the  bibliography  of  this  article  arc  neither  men- 
tioned the  excellent  translation  into  French  by  I.  M.  Rabbinowicz  nor  the  translation 
into  English  by  Michael  L.  Rodkinson.  The  same  is  the  case  with  vol.  iv.,  page  526, 
etc.,  concerning  the  tracts  "  Derekh-Ercz  Rabba"  and  "  Zuta,"  for  in  the  bibliog- 
raphy there  is  not  mentioned  its  translation  in  vol.  i.  (ix.)  into  English  by  the  sam« 
M.  L.  Rodkinson,  together  with  Abot  de  Rabbi  Nathan,  which  is  mentioned  in  the  first 
volume,  page  82.  Here  the  bibliography  reads :  "  An  English  version  is  gircn 
by  M.  L.  Rodkinson  in  his  translation  of  the  Babylonian  Talmud,  I.  (IX.),  New  York, 
1900."  We  cannot  find  any  excuse  for  such  a  sin  of  the  bibliographer  unless  we 
ascribe  it  to  the  carelessness  of  the  editors,  for  even  if  the  authors  of  the  articles  were 
ignorant  of  it,  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  this  translation  is  to  be  found  in  almost  all  the 
libraries  of  the  cities  and  countries,  still  the  editors  ought  not  to  have  been  so. 

*  To  the  critics  who  will  try  to  find  fault  with  us  because  of  the  article  by  Prof. 
Schechter  in  the  Westminster  Review  of  January  and  April,  we  will  say  that  in  spite 
of  the  respect  which  we  feel  for  the  article  and  the  author,  we  do  not  agree  with  it  on 
many  points.  Therefore,  without  any  controversies,  wc  state  here  what  seems  reason- 
able to  us,  leaving  it  to  the  reader  to  judge. 


124  APPENDIX  A. 

whether  only  Messianists  or  also  Persians  and  idolaters,  the  opin- 
ions of  modern  scholars  differ.  To  us  it  seems  that  the  Messian- 
ists possessed  only  the  house  of  Abidan,  and  the  Persians  and 
Magians  that  of  Nitzraphi.  Rabh  refused  absolutely  to  dispute 
with  the  first,  but  was  forced  to  do  so  with  the  latter,  perhaps  by 
his  proximity  to  the  government.  Of  the  house  of  Abiani  schol- 
ars say  it  was  composed  of  Messianists. 

No.  i6.  As  his  interpretation  of  the  text,  "it  shall  be  a  sign 
unto  thee  upon  thy  hand,  and  for  a  memorial  between  thy  eyes," 
that  it  is  a  figure  of  speech,  it  shall  be  memored  as  if  written  on  thy 
hand,  as,  "set  me  as  a  seal  upon  thy  breast,"  [Song  of  Solomon,  vii. 
6]:  "between  thy  eyes,"  as  an  ornament  which  it  is  customary  to 
put  on  the  brow,  and  there  is  no  mention  of  the  use  of  Phylacteriens 
in  his  whole  commentary,  though  the  Talmud  based  the  custom 
of  Phylacteriens  only  on  these  texts.  We  have  spoken  already  of 
this  in  our  work  on  Phylacteriens. 

-No.  17.  In  the  excellent  work,  "Kritische  Geschichte  der  Tal- 
mud Ubersetzungen,"  by  Dr.  Erich  Bischof,  we  read,  p.  67: 
Trotzdem  heute  der  friihr  iiberschatzte  Eisenmenger  allzusehr 
unterschatzt  wird,  weil  er  noch  nicht  den  historisch — Kritischen 
Blick  unserer  Tage  besass  lasst  sich  doch  gegen  seine — Uber- 
setzunger  der  genanten  *  Stellen  nichts  Erhebliches  mit  Fug  ein- 
wenden  sie  sind  vielmehr  fast  stets  richtig,  etc. 

We  may  say  that  though  we  respect  very  much  the  above-men- 
tioned work  as  one  whose  opinions  in  general  are  correct,  we  would 
like  to  call  the  attention  of  the  learned  author  to  the  following  facts : 

(a)  Notwithstanding  the  fact  that  in  a  period  of  eight  centuries 
over  a  thousand  persons  of  varying  opinions  were  engaged  in  the 
compiling  of  the  Talmud,  in  the  edition  lying  before  us  there  is  not 
to  be  found  any  designation  as  to  time,  and  in  many  places,  even 
the  author  of  that  saying  is  not  mentioned,  Eisenmenger  gives  the 
sentence,  calling  it  literal  translation,  as  if  it  were  said  by  one  person 
at  a  given  time.  It  is  self-evident,  however,  that  such  literal  trans- 
lation changes  the  meaning  entirely. 

(b)  An  opinion  of  an  individual  concerning  Gentiles,  he  quotes 
it  in  the  name  of  the  Talmud,  in  spite  that  this  saying  is  immedi- 
ately opposed  by  the  Gemara. 

(c)  He  erred  even  in  the  literal  translation,  e.g.,  "Margela  he 
Pume  de  Abyc,"  this  paragraph  is  translated  by  us  in  third  part  of 
Vol.  II.  of  this  book.  He  translates,  "A  pearl  was  in  the  mouth  of 
A-";  while  the  literal  translation  of  the  word  Margela  is,  "It  was 
used,"  i.e.,  Abye  "used"  to  repeat   this  saying  very  often.     At 

*  He  quotes  namely,  the  places  of  the  Talmud  which  were  translated  by  him. 


APPENDIX  A.  ,2^ 

another  place  he  asks  why  should  the  "Talmud"  be  called  great, 
while  the  word  "Talmud"  in  that  sentence  means  "teaching,"  i.e. 
the  teaching   is   greater  than  action;  for  teaching  causes  action! 
And  we  wonder  how  Dr.  Bischoff  can  say  of  such,  "it  is  rather  cor- 
rect." 

No.  1 8.  Concerning  the  pamphlets  and  books  against  the  Tal- 
mud, written  by  apostate  Jews,  see  Strack,  page  95. 

No.  19.  Rohling  declares  that  the  Rabbis  had  concluded  that 
all  the  sins  of  a  Jew,  be  it  against  heaven  or  against  man,  are  for- 
given him  if  he  only  remains  a  Jew.  He  also  declares  that  every 
Rabbi  considers  himself  infallible  concerning  the  laws  of  non-Jewish 
blood. 

The  conclusion  of  our  review  of  this  book  seems  to  us  of 
interest  to  the  reader,  and  therefore  we  translate  it  here:  "The  Lord 
hath  made  all  things  for  himself:  yea,  even  the  wicked  for  the  day 
of  evil  "  [Proverbs,  xvi.  4].  If  we  will  look  with  an  open  eye  into 
the  history  of  Israel,  we  shall  find  that  at  all  times,  when  character- 
less men  arose  to  accuse  and  oppress  Jews  because  of  jealousy  or 
animosity  (except  in  cases  where  a  man  fights  for  his  livelihood, 
which  is  natural),  their  opponents  who  fought  them  openly  were 
equal  to  them  in  every  respect.  As  the  poet  says,  "Also  unto  thee, 
O  Lord  belongeth  mercy  for  thou  renderest  to  every  man  according 
to  his  deeds"  [Ps.  Ixiv.  13].  If  these  words  should  be  explained 
according  to  their  literal  meaning  the  question  would  arise  why  mercy 
if  to  every  one  is  rendered  according  to  his  deeds.  Therefore  it  is  to 
be  explained  thus :  "mercy  belongeth  to  thee  that  thou repayest  the 
wicked  man  for  his  evil  deeds  by  one  who  is  equal  in  deeds  to  him." 

Similarly  did  it  happen  in  the  time  of  the  Judges  when  Sisera 
oppressed  the  Jews  terribly,  providence  transferred  him  to  a  pros- 
titute, Jael,  who  rebelled  against  her  husband  and  also  against  her 
lover  (Sisera),  who  thought  to  be  saved,  being  between  her  knees, 
and  was  slain  by  her  [Judges,  v.  27]. 

Haman,  the  Agagi  whom  Harbonah  had  assisted  in  creating 
the  gallows  to  hang  Mordecai,  was  transferred  to  Harbonah 's 
hands  and  was  hanged  by  him  who  was  equally  devoid  of  character. 
Hadrian  who  decreed  that  the  Jews  should  not  circumcise  their 
children  under  the  penalty  of  capital  punishment,  and  Simon  b. 
'Yohaie  who  was  going  to  Rome  to  petition  the  Caesar  to  abolish 
this  decree,  the  miracle  occurred  through  Ben  Tmalion  (a  devil). 
Notwithstanding  that  Simon  wept  saying,  "To  the  servant  of  my 
grandfather  (Hagar),  when  she  was  in  need,  an  angel  appeared 
three  times  [Genesis,  xvi.  7-12],  and  to  me  who  am  troubled  with 
the  needs  of  all  Israel,  an  angel  did  not  appear,  even  one  time,  but 


126  APPENDIX   A. 

only  a  devil"  [Me-ila,  17,  b],  it  did  not  help  him,  for  who  of  the  angels 
would  lower  himself  to  appear  before  such  a  low  person  who  desires 
to  oppress  humanity  without  any  reason  but  merely  on  account  of 
their  religion. 

In  reality  it  is  revealed  before  Him,  who  said  a  Word  and  the 
World  was  created,  that  a  man  of  delicate  nature  would  dislike  to 
come  in  contact  with  men  of  doubtful  character,  and  would  not 
fight  with  a  dirty  man,  as  there  is  a  rule  that  he  who  fights  bodily 
with  a  dirty  man  must  become  dirty  himself.  Therefore  the  Lord 
has  created  the  wicked  and  characterless  men  for  the  purposes  of 
such  an  evil  day  that  he  should  conquer  his  opponent,  who  is  equal 
to  him  in  every  respect. 

Our  sages  seem  to  be  aware  of  this,  as  we  find  uiat  when  a  dis- 
pute was  needed  on  subjects  concerning  Israel,  they  selected  a 
common  man  (see  Sanhedrin^  page  270),  and  similarly  to  this,  we 
have  seen  last  year  when  the  measure  of  the  renowned  Stoecker's 
deeds  were  full,  his  comrade,  Greenberg,  who  exchanged  his  needle 
for  a  scribe's  pen,  and  when  driven  out  from  the  Socialists  in  Berlin, 
became  a  comrade  of  Stoecker,  and  finally  his  secretary,  and  later 
sold  him  with  all  his  writings  for  ten  German  thalers,  so  that  it 
became  known  who  the  Preacher  of  the  Royal  Court  was,  and  a 
case  identical  to  that  of  Rohling-Bloch,  that  he  (Rohling)  fell  into 
the  hands  of  a  equally  characterless  man,  Bloch,*  whom  God  had 
created  for  this  dark  day,  as  said  above  that  from  all  the  great  Jew- 
ish men  of  Vienna,  not  one  of  them  humiliated  himself  to  enter  into 
a  fight  with  Rohling.  However,  if  there  is  need  for  a  miracle  to 
occur,  it  matters  little  from  whence  it  comes,  and  after  all,  we  have 
to  praise  Bloch  that  he  was  the  cause  for  the  appearance  of  such  a 
book,  just  as  the  prophetess  Deborah  praised  the  prostitute  Jael 
[Judges,  V.  24]  :   "Blessed  shall  she  be  of  the  women  of  the  tent." 

No.  20.  The  following  is  a  translation  of  a  few  pages  of  the  be- 
ginning of  our  pamphlet,  "Der  Schulchan  Aruch  und  seine  Bezie- 
hungen  zu  den  Juden  und  Nichtjuden."  "On  the  loth  of  Decem- 
ber, 1883,  a  trial  came  before  the  'Landesgerichte,'  at  Miinster, 
which  created  a  great  commotion  in  all  Germany"  .  .  .  viz.,  "one 
of  the  anti-Semites,  named  Dr.  Justus,  published  a  pamphlet  in 
Paderborn  under  the  name  'Judenspiegel'  containing  100  law  para- 
graphs of  the  'Schulchan  Aruch,'  concerning  the  treatment  of 
'Akum,'  abbreviation  of  three  words,  'Obde  Kochabim  Umazoleth,' 
literally,  'worshipper  of  stars  and  planets.'  However,  the  author, 
Justus,    put    the    word    'Christians'    instead    of    'Akum'    in    every 


*  In  our  pamphlet  "  Barquai,"  Vienna,  1886,  all  Bloch's  proceedings  as  well 
his  character  are  related. 


APPENDIX  A.  i,y 

place  in  the  text.  The  editor  of  'The  Merkin*  in  Miinster 
quoted  many  passages  of  this  pamphlet  with  a  glaring  editorial, 
and  the  district-attorney,  who  considered  such  as  an  incitation 
against  a  race,  made  him  responsible  for  this.  The  'Landes- 
gerichte'  appointed  two  experts,  one  a  Jew,  Dr.  Treu,  a  Hebrew 
teacher  in  the  'royal  gymnasium,'  and  a  Gentile,  Dr.  Ecker,  an 
instructor  in  Semitic  languages."* 

Dr.  Ecker  Privatdocent  at  the  royal  academy  of  this  plac* 
declares,  that  having  devoted  the  last  ten  years  exclusively  totha 
study  of  Semitica,  he  is  in  a  position  to  express  an  opinion.  He 
then  goes  on  to  say: 

"In  the  first  place,  I  feel  it  my  duty  to  point  out  that  I  can  in 
no  way  agree  with  the  conclusions  arrived  at  by  my  esteemed 
colleague,  Treu,  and  that  concerning  the  essential  point  I  entertain 
a  conviction  the  very  opposite  of  his.  Three  questions  are  here 
concerned  which  I  am  to  answer: 

(i)  Is  the  'Schulchan  Aruch'  vested  with  legal  sanction? 

(2)  Does  the  word  'Akum'  mean  also  Christians? 

(3)  Are  the  quotations  of  Dr.  Justus  in  agreement  with  the 
original  text." 

As  his  answer  to  the  first  question  treats  about  the  "Schulchan 
Aruch"  only,  and  also  whether  the  Jews  at  that  time  are  to  be  named 
Schulchan  Aruch  Jews  or  Talmud  Jews,  we  omit  it  as  it  does  not 
belong  to  the  purpose  of  our  history.  We  begin  therefore  with 
the  second  point. 

"As  to  the  second  point  whether  the  word  A!nim  comprises  s>lso  Christians,  I 
do  not  see  how  this  can  be  denied.  It  is  my  firm  conviction  that  Akum  is  nothings 
less  nor  more  than  non-Jews.  And  I  believe  that  the  Christians  too  belong  to  this 
class.  Thus  a  law  book  that  has  appeared  in  the  middle  of  the  sixteenth  century  in 
Krakau  should  contain  laws  regulating  the  bchaTior  of  Jews  (i)  towards  Jews,  (a) 
toward  planet-worshippers  who  live  hundreds  of  milcS  away?  This  is  indeed  ridicu- 
lous. Gentlemen,  allow  me  to  draw  a  comparison.  Suppose,  here  in  MUnster,  a 
Jew  would  conceive  a  notion  to  sit  down  and  write  a  new  law  book  in  which  there  an 
but  two  classes  of  laws,  how  the  Jews  should  behave  toward  Jews  and  toward— well, 
for  my  part  let  him  call  them  what  he  may,  it  means  after  all  non-Jews  ;  suppose 
further  that  the  prescribed  behavior  toward  non-Jews  is  very  rude  and  inhuman,  and 
the  author  is  held  responsible  for  so  treating  the  Christians,  the  learned  Jew  says : 
Ye  Christians  of  Miinster  are  not  at  all  included  in  the  class  of  non-Jews,  which  class 
has  reference  to  the — Hottentots  ! 

"  Now,  gentlemen,  it  is  just  as  ridiculous  to  assert  that  in  the  sixteenth  century 
there  have  appeared  laws  in  Krakau  regulating  the  behavior  of  Jews  toward  planet 

*  The  testimonies  of  Dr.  Treu,  who  was  a  Jew,  we  do  not  deem  necessary  to 
translate,  especially  as  they  may  be  understood  from  the  answers  of  Dr.  Ecker. 
However,  the  latter's  testimony  and  our  replies  we  translate  literally  for  the  purpose 
of  enlightening  such  passages  which  are  to  be  found  in  the  Talmud. 


128  APPENDIX  A. 

worshippers,  and  the  Christians  are  nowhere  mentioned.  And,  gentlemen,  since  this 
point  has  received  no  emphasis  on  the  part  of  my  esteemed  colleague,  it  is  important 
to  call  attention  to  it !  If  Akum  does  not  comprise  Christians,  then  laws  against 
Christians  are  wholly  missing.  In  the  '  Shulchan  Aruch  '  there  are  mentioned  only 
Jews  and  Akum  ;  we  Christians  are  surely  not  Jews,  hence  we  are  beyond  all  doubt 
comprised  in  the  term  Akum. 

"I  repeat  once  more,  Akum  is  congruent  with  non-Jews.  The  Rabbis  them- 
selves prove  this.  I  have  in  my  possession  a  recent  Wilna  edition  of  the  '  Shulchan 
Aruch,'  in  which  not  infrequently  the  word  Akum  of  the  older  editions  is  substituted 
by  Eno  Ichudi,  i.e.  non-Jew.  The  fear  for  the  censor  prompted  many  to  an  altera- 
tion, but  in  this  case  it  has  rather  been  an  unhappy  one,  since  the  publishers  them- 
selves say  that  Akum  is  synonymous  with  non-Jew." 

"We  are  in  a  position  to  meet  also  this  issue  of  the  Herr  Expert. 
The  term  non-Jews  is  by  no  means  generic  for  the  term  Christian. 
In  order  to  fully  perceive  the  truth  of  this  statement,  it  remains 
for  the  learned  doctor  to  merely  cross  the  channel  over  to  England. 
This  great  world  dominating  nation  consists  in  its  overwhelming 
majority  of  pious  and  strict  Christians.  They  sacrifice  millions 
for  the  propagation  of  the  Christian  creed,  and  the  evangelic  writ- 
ings all  over  the  world.  However,  they  call  themselves  with  self- 
gratification,  "The  genuine  Jews,  sons  of  The  New  Union."  They 
pretend  to  be  the  descendants  of  the  enigmatically  vanished  ten 
tribes  of  Israel,  and  to  still  be  Jews,  body  and  soul.  Very  often  you 
find  on  their  worship  places  and  educational  institutions  inscrip- 
tions in  both  English  and  Hebrew.  Here  you  read  in  strikingly 
large  letters;  "Chapel  of  the  Jews -Christians,'"  "  Jewish- Nazaric 
School."  In  the  cosmopolis  London  the  most  influential  princes 
and  the  highest  state  officers  call  themselves  with  self-conscious- 
ness, "Jew-Christians."  What  then  is  the  decisive  trait  that  makes 
the  Christian  a  non-Jew?  Furthermore,  the  theologically  educated 
Expert  can  hardly  be  believed  to  be  ignorant  of  the  fact  that  the 
first  adherents  of  Christianity  in  its  statu  nascendi  had  preserved 
the  name  Jews  for  a  long  period,  had  remained  piously  obedient 
to  the  customs,  precepts  and  tenets  of  the  Jews,  and  had  in  their 
outward  apparel  distinguished  themselves  in  nothing  from  their 
former  brethren  in  creed.  Notwithstanding  their  sincere  de- 
votion to  the  new  movement,  they  still  called  themselves,  "devout 
sons  of  Israel";  only  few  were  they  who  assumed  an  outspoken 
antagonistic  position  with  regard  to  the  customary  Rabbinic  or 
Pharisaic  ordinances,  and  were  on  this  account  stigmatized  by  the 
Talmud  as  "Min,"  "Apikores."  Now,  has  non-Jews  always  been 
identical  with  Christian?  Aside  from  this  the  first  edition  of  the 
"  Schulchan  Aruch"  was  printed  in  Adrianople  (Turkey),  where 
the  most  inhabitants  were  Mussulmans. 


APPENDIX  A.  129 

"  Such  falsifications  of  the  text  in  more  recent  editions  have  perplexed  me  to 
some  extent,  when  I  investigated  the  laws  of  Justus.  The  fourth  law  reads  :  '  When 
a  Jew  is  met  by  an  Akum  (Christian)  with  a  cross  in  his  hand,  the  Jew  is  strictly  pro- 
hibited from  bowing  his  head.'  However,  in  my  Wilna  edition  I  find  instead  of 
Akum  the  word  adam,  i.e.  man.  I  then  compared  a  new  Stettin  edition,  and  there  I 
even  find  :  '  When  an  obed  kochabim  (star  worshipper)  with  abodath  kochabim  (idol)  in 
hand  meet,'  whence  nothing  could,  of  course,  be  proved.  Only  in  an  older  edition 
I  have  found  the  original :  '  When  an  Akum  meets  you  with  a  sheti  vaereb  {i.e.  woof 
and  warp  =  cross).'  And,  gentlemen,  this  proof  is  incontrovertible.  It  is  known  to 
everybody  that  no  heathen  reveres  the  cross.     Akum  here  must  mean  a  Christian." 

One  moment,  profound  Herr  Dr.  Ecker,  the  case  appears  after 
all  to  be  very  far  from  being  so  manifest  and  ultimately  settled. 
During  their  existence,  extending  over  thousands  of  years,  the  Jews 
had  experienced  among  the  various  nations  many  a  thing  of  which 
many  a  sage  can  not  even  dream  and  which  seems  unknown  also  to 
Dr.  Ecker,  the  theologian,  who  bears  even  the  title  Doctor.  As 
there  is  in  general  nothing  new  under  the  sun,  the  consecration  of 
the  cross  in  Christianity  was  not  a  wholly  new  creation.  In  the 
Brahman  religion  the  cross  had  enjoyed  great  esteem  some  six  cen- 
turies B.C.  The  Hindu  symbolized  therein  the  space  relations 
of  the  universe.  According  to  accounts  relating  to  those  times, 
the  Fakirs  would  stand  motionless,  their  hands  stretched  cross- 
wise, for  days  or,  as  some  would  have  it,  even  for  weeks  until  the 
nails  on  their  fingers  would  grow  to  be  inches  long.  By  thus  blunt- 
ing their  bodily  sensibility  they  endeavored  to  give  palpable  ex- 
pression to  the  negation  of  man's  earthly  existence.  The  commen- 
tary to  Eben  Ezra,  mekor  chaim,  gives  in  the  book  Margalioth  an 
account  of  this  custom.  Accordingly,  it  is  by  no  means  so  in- 
credible nor  coiild  have  been  so  infrequent  that  a  Jew  should  have 
met  a  heathen  with  a  cross.  The  assumption  is  therefore  plausible 
that  the  Talmud  had  in  view  such  heathens.  However,  we  admit 
that  this  is  merely  an  hypothesis,  and  that  Shulchan  Aruch  was 
no  more  familiar  with  Indian  mythology  than  Dr.  Ecker  appears 
to  be.  We  aim  solely  at  showing  that  it  is  possible  for  one  impelled 
by  judophobic  purposes  to  carry  on  the  study  of  Semitica  for  ten 
years,  and  yet  exhibit  drastic  ignorance  here  and  there — all  diluted 
eloquence  and  vain  presumptions  notwithstanding — and  that  it  is 
altogether  ill-becoming  to  venture  upon  expressing  a  competent 
opinion  on  Jewish  laws  that  have  arisen  in  ancient  times.  It  is  of 
this  that  we  wanted  to  remind  Herr  Dr.  Ecker  and  his  anti-Semitic 
commilitants. 

"  In  conclusion  one  more  proof  that  will  of  necessity  convince  everybody.     We 

all  know  that  the  Jews  do  not  eat  meat  unless  it  has  been  slaughtered  by  a  Jew.     Meat 

slaughtered  by  Christians  is  not  'kosher,'  and  yet  the  'Shulchan  Aruch'  says  that 

meat  slaughtered  by  an  Akum  is  not  kosher  ;  hence  Akum  means  also  the  Christian." 

9 


130  APPENDIX  A. 

Patience,  Herr  Dr.  Ecker.  Also  this  your  far-fetched  remark 
deserves  an  answer,  and  such  that  will  remove  the  scales  off  your 
eyes.  How  indeed  is  it  possible  that  a  theologian  who  has  been  ex- 
ploring Jewish  literature  for  ten  years  should  exhibit  such  salient 
gaps?  The  most  ignorant  Jew  could  beat  you  in  this  point.  Who 
does  not  know  that  only  a  trained  slaughterer  examined  and  sup- 
plied with  a  diploma  is  allowed  to  slaughter?  Any  other  Jew,  and 
be  that  the  most  enlightened  and  distinguished  among  the  Rabbis 
themselves,  is  not  entitled  to  slaughter,  and  were  he  to  do  it  the 
meat  of  this  animal  would  be  unallowable  and  regarded  as  though 
the  animal  had  been  torn  to  pieces  by  a  beast  of  prey,  and  is  there- 
fore "  Terefa,"  (torn.)  And  upon  this  case  Dr.  Ecker  bases  his 
deduction  that  Akum  is  absolutely  a  Christian,  for  the  cattle 
slaughtered  by  an  Akum  is  not  kosher?  How  ridiculous!  Is  it 
kosher  if  slaughtered  by  a  Jew  not  in  possession  of  the  right  to 
slaughter? 

"  Now  comes  the  important  third  question  :  Are  the  laws  of  Dr.  Justus  really  con- 
tained in  the  '  Shulchan  Aruch  '  ?  Herr  Colleague  Treu  has  made  the  utterance  that 
man^  a  point  of  these  laws  is  not  contained  in  the  '  Shulchan  Aruch.'  Particular  stress 
was  apparently  laid  on  this  remark.  The  case  is  not  set  down  with  precision  ;  I  have 
compared  all  the  laws  with  the  original  text  and  reached  the  following  result :  that  I 
should  simply  sign  my  name  under  all  these  loo  laws  from  A  to  Z,  you  cannot 
require  of  me.  In  their  main  substance  they  are  correctly  contained  in  the  '  Shulchan 
Aruch,'  but  the  foundations  of  some  single  laws  are  borrowed  by  the  author  from 
somewhere  else  ;  on  the  whole,  however,  well  grounded.  I  admit,  and  this  is  natural 
enough,  that  the  laws  2S&  poignantly  formulated,  and  in  some  cases  in  a  manner  which 
I  should  not  approve  of.  We  read,  e.g.,  in  law  79  :  '  The  Jew  is  allowed  to  eat  un- 
clean in  case  of  a  dangerous  sickness  .  .  .  however,  he  is  not  allowed  even  in  this 
case  to  use  for  his  cure  something  that  belongs  (in  the  opinion  of  the  Jews)  to  the 
most -unclean,  viz.,  to  a  Christian  Church.'  As  already  observed,  no  mention  is  made 
of  Christians,  and  also  here  in  the  text  it  reads  '  idol  worship.'  Of  course,  the 
Christian  Church  too  belongs  here.  Thus,  the  case  is  not  untrue,  yet  in  its  above 
formulation  the  law  sounds  sharper  and  Dr.  Justus  should  have  left  the  text  also  here 
unaltered  and  added  '  Christian  Church '  in  parentheses." 

Truly,  we  are  at  a  loss  to  find  the  proper  expression  that  might 
appropriately  characterize  this  expert  deposition  of  a  theologically 
educated  priest.  Let  us  in  the  first  place  inquire  somewhat  more 
closely  into  the  law  in  question,  which  in  its  formulation  is  in  neither 
the  Talmud  nor  the  Shulchan  Aruch.  In  the  former  we  read:  "If 
a  man  is  seized  with  bulimy  he  may  be  fed  with  unclean 
food,  till  his  eyes  become  clear"  (Yoma,  125).  Here  no  mention 
is  made  of  either  Akum  or  idol  worship.  In  the  Shulchan  Aruch 
the  same  law  is  worded  as  follows:  "It  is  allowed  to  give  the  dan- 
gerously sick  prohibited  food  to  eat"  (Orach  Chaim,  618,  9).  Here 
again  the  word  unclean  has  been  eliminated.     Still  another  pas- 


APPENDIX  A.  ,3, 

sage  treating  of  the  same  subject  reads:  "For  curing  purposes 
all  is  allowed  to  be  used  but  the  wood  of  an  Ashera,  Astrate, 
that  what  was  in  Phoenician  an  unchaste  phallus-idol."  We 
read  further  in  the  same  place:  "With  all  things  it  is  per- 
mitted to  cure  one's  self  except  by  means  of  idolatry,  adul- 
tery and  shedding  of  blood."  (Pesachim,  36.)  The  word 
Tumah  =  unclean  is  not  met  here  at  all.  In  the  Shulchan  Aruch 
this  law  is  restated  as  follows:  "It  is  not  allowed  to  seek  con- 
valescence in  the  name  of  idols  "  (Yoreh  dea,  155.)  Neither  is  here 
the  word  Tumah  to  be  found.  It  thus  remains  an  enigma  where 
Dr.  Justus  may  have  borrowed  the  expression  "the  most  unclean," 
which  is  to  Dr.  Ecker  of  course  synonymous  with  the  Christian 
Church,  since  the  word  is  not  at  all  used  in  the  original  text  in  connec- 
tion with  this  law!  But  we  must  do  justice  to  Dr.  Ecker;  he  pos- 
sesses a  highly  cunning  method  of  polemizing;  he  displays  ad- 
mirable dexterity  in  securing  for  his  comrade  Dr.  Justus  an  open 
back-door.  Yes,  indeed,  Dr.  Ecker  is  master  of  his  art,  he  leaves 
far  behind  that  so-called  "Jewish  method  of  polemizing,"  which 
has  been  according  to  the  "Germania"  revealed  in  this  action. 
Herr  Dr.  Ecker  makes  notably  the  statement  that  Dr.  Justus  has 
taken  his  law  from  the  Shulchan  Aruch,  their  interpretations,  how- 
ever, he  has  borrowed  from  someivhere  else.  This  open  admission 
manifests  the  intention  of  false  conception.  Dr.  Justus  has  namely 
borrowed  that  marked,  or  to  use  the  language  of  Dr.  Ecker,  ''poign- 
ant" expression  from  a  place  that  has  absolutely  nothing  in  com- 
mon with  the  law  in  question.  Aboda  Zara,  i.e.  idol  worship,  is 
termed  in  the  Talmud  the  father  of  uncleanness:  Abh  hatumah, 
which  defiles  by  touch  (Sabbath,  Aboda  Zara.)  Now  Dr.  Justus 
resorts  to  the  following  stratagem;  he  renders  Abh  hathmah  with 
"the  most  unclean,"  substitutes  Aboda  Zara,  idol  worship,  by 
"Christian  Church,"  then  he  fabricates  a  law  under  the  label  of 
the  Shulchan  Aruch  which  has  never  had  any  thing  of  the  kind, 
and  in  the  name  of  this  firm  sends  it  out  into  the  wide  world.  Dr. 
Ecker,  it  is  true,  finds  that  such  method  of  procedure  is  "poignant," 
but  on  the  whole  correct  and  to  the  point.  What  may  criticism 
say  on  such  an  escapade?  If  a  Jew  had  the  mishap  of  venturing 
upon  such  a  shaky  ground,  the  whole  stock  of  degrading  names, 
such  as  rogue,  rascal,  impostor,  misanthrope,  etc.,  would  not  suffice 
to  stigmatize  so  shameless  a  forger.  Indeed  it  requires  very  little 
originality  and  still  less  sagacity  or  witchcraft  to  pick  out  phrases 
from  places  that  stand  in  no  relation  to  one  another,  and  compilo 
them  with  a  view  of  criminating  whomever  it  may  be.  Dr.  Justus 
has  done  such  a  work,  and  a  CathoHc  priest,  a  custodian  of  the  church 


X3a  APPENDIX  A. 

who  should  adhere  to  truth,  right  and  peace,  has  the  impudence  to 
assert  that  this  work  is  in  substance  correct,  though  poignant  because 
"Christian  Church"  should  have  been  enclosed  in  parentheses; 
as  if  then  the  falsehood  would  turn  to  truth !  Can  a  theologian  bear 
such  false  testimony,  a  priest  who  declares  himself  to  be  well  versed 
in  the  Hebrew  and  hence  competent  to  pass  judgment  on  Rabbinical 
literature  ? 

Let  us  now  examine  somewhat  more  closely  the  Hebrew  con- 
cept, "Tumah,"  In  default  of  a  corresponding  similarly  express- 
ive German  word,  one  is  of  necessity  prompted  to  render  it  with 
"unclean."  In  reality,  however,  the  Biblical  and  Rabbinical 
"Tumah,"  is  toto  coelo  different  from  the  current  notion  unclean. 
The  German  "unclean"  is  synonymous  with  the  dirt  and  filth, 
which  is  in  no  way  the  case  with  TumaJi.  According  to  the 
Mosaic  law,  a  human  corpse  is  the  very  origin,  the  progenitor  of  all 
Tumah,  "  AbJvi  ahoth  hatumah."  In  Dr.  Ecker's  German  this  could 
be  styled  "the  most  unclean."  The  tent,  the  room  that  shelters 
a  corpse,  with  all  the  utensils  therein,  is  permeated  with  the  fluid 
of  Tumah,  uncleanness.  Whoever  lingers,  sits  or  sleeps  there, 
whoever  touches  the  corpse,  is  infected  with  the  Tumah  and  be- 
comes in  turn  "Abh  hatumah,"  the  father  of  uncleanness, 
and  he  who  touches  the  Abh  hatumah  is  called  "  Rishon  let- 
timah,"  the  first  of  uncleanness;  he  is  prohibited  for  seven 
days  from  entering  the  sanctuary  or  from  approaching  the 
altar.  He  imparts  Tumah  to  him  who  may  happen  to  touch  him. 
It  is  here  absolutely  immaterial  whether  the  corpse  was,  when  alive, 
sheltering  the  divine  spirit  of  Moses,  of  the  crowned  bard  of  the 
unparalleled  psalm  songster  David,  or  of  one  of  the  lowliest  in  the 
Jewish  nation.  The  assertion  that  the  corpse  of  Moses,  David,  etc., 
is  the  most  unclean  would  be  a  sure  symptom  of  insanity.  Are  the 
two  words  Tumah  and  unclean  congruent?  The  rehgious  law  of 
Tumah  is  laid  down  in  the  Torah  without  foundation  at  all,  and  be- 
longs to  those  laws  concerning  which  we  venture  to  speculate,  yet 
are  unable  to  warrant  their  validity.  Now,  the  Rabbis,  eager  to 
keep  the  Jews  from  following  idolatry  of  those  times,  to  prevent  all 
contact  therewith,  were  therefore  teaching:  "An  idol  defiles  by 
touch;  it  is  not  allowed  even  for  curing  purposes,"  However,  it 
was  not  the  material  part  of  the  idol  that  was  prohibited,  such  as 
the  wood,  the  stone,  the  dust  (for  the  use  of  all  this  was  allowed  in 
case  of  danger),  but  the  prohibition  is  to  be  conceived  of  in  the 
following  sense.  If  one  were  to  whisper  in  the  ear  of  a  dangerously 
sick  person:  "I  will  in  your  behalf  invoke  the  help  of  this  or  that 
idol,"  as  such  was  really  the  case  with  Ben  Dama,  the  nephew  of 


APPENDIX  A.  133 

R.  Ismael  (Aboda  Zara,  27),  it  is  such  a  medicinal  use  of  the  idol 
that  one  is  energetically  warned  against.  Supposing  now  that 
the  emblems  of  Christianity  too  are  actually  subsumed  under  the 
category  of  idols,  which  is  by  no  means  the  case,  supposing  further 
that  it  is  prohibited  to  seek  recovery  by  their  help,  even  then  there 
would  be  no  way  of  justifying  a  rationally  thinking  person  in  his 
attempting  to  refer  such  a  prohibition  to  the  Christian  Church,  or 
to  go  further  yet,  and  assert  that  the  latter  is  in  the  mind  of  the 
Jews  unclean,  or,  according  to  Dr.  Ecker,  altogether  the  most  unclean. 

As  an  illustration  of  how  the  Rabbinical  school  used  to  term 
Tumah,  we  quote  an  eloquent  account  of  the  Mishnah  [lodaim,  4]: 
"The  Sadducees  were  once  deriding  their  antagonists,  the  Pharisees, 
as  follows :  '  How  amazingly  absurd  is  your  procedure  in  establish- 
ing laws !  the  writings  of  Homer  are  not  defiling  while  the  sacred 
books  of  the  Bible  should  be  subject  of  defiling;  is  it  not  the  height 
of  absurdity? '  Hereupon  replied  R.  Johanan  b.  Zakai:  You  could 
adduce  against  us  yet  other  analogous  but  more  drastic  facts;  the 
bones  of  an  ass  are  not  defiling  while  those  of  the  high-priest  Johann 
Hyrcan  do  defile !  How  would  you  solve  this  paradox  ? "  Whereupon 
the  Sadducees  answered:  "This  is  obvious.  The  position  one  holds 
when  aHve  is  in  direct  ratio  with  the  uncleanness  after  death ;  the 
more  revered  and  beloved  one  was  when  alive,  the  more  defiling 
is  his  corpse."  Now  you  see,  said  R.  Johanan  b.  Zakai,  this  speaks 
as  well  as  for  us,  I  could  turn  the  very  same  weapons  unto  ye!  the 
profane  writings  of  Homer — that  are  not  our  favorite — are  indiffer- 
ent to  us,  they  do  not  defile;  the  sacred  books  which  we  revere 
and  love  are  subjects  of  defiling  the  hands  that  touch  them! 

Now,  if  according  to  Dr.  Ecker's  and  Justus's  literary  artifice, 
the  Christian  Church  too  belongs  "of  course,"  to  the  most  unclean, 
is  it  not  possible  in  the  rabbinical  sense  to  construe  on  the  contrary 
a  consecration,  a  proof  of  superior  esteem  for  the  church.''  Ye 
gentlemen  Doctors,  where  is  your  wisdom.? 

Artifices  of  this  kind  can  be  brought  about  only  by  a  Dr.  Justus, 
who,  impregnated  with  maHce  and  Jew-hatred,  misuses  ink  and  paper 
to  openly  and  scornfully  defy  the  truth.  And  a  consecrated  priest, 
an  academic  teacher,  stamps  his  approval  upon  his  tricky  work  and 
in  a  sacred  place  where  justice  is  being  administered,  whither  he, 
credited  agreeably  to  his  sect  and  position,  was  summoned  to  con- 
scientiously elucidate  the  truth,  where  he  might  have  been  made 
to  confirm  under  oath  the  veracity  of  his  convicrion !  Verily,  Dr. 
Ecker  has  badly  sinned,  not  only  against  the  Jewish  people,  but 
also  against  Chrisrian  Germany!  Is  then  in  our  age  the  Hebrew 
literature  a  book  sealed  with  seven  seals?    Are  not  there  m  Ger- 


134  APPENDIX  A. 

many  also  Christian  savants  who  could  detect  this  arbitrary  pro* 
cedure,  who  could  trace  to  its  source  such  a  groundless  absurdity? 
Would  that  he  may  perceive  the  opinion  of  the  Christian  professors, 
Delitzsch,  Cassel,  etc.,  expressed  with  reference  to  his  expert  opin- 
ion, he  would  see  then  whether  they  regard  his  depositions  as  ac- 
tually impartial,  or  as  of  a  wholly  different  nature,  he  would  leam 
whether  they  agree  with  him  in  that  the  Christian  Church  too  be- 
longs of  course  to  the  most  unclean!  This  is,  honorable  priest  of 
the  church,  your  impartiality,  such  is  it  prima  facie! 

*'  I  should  like  yet  to  touch  here  upon  the  point  which  was  thought  to  be  im- 
portant when  Herr  Colleague  Treu  has  pointed  out  that  he  has  nowhere  read  in  th« 
'  Shulchan  Aruch  '  that  Christians  are  worse  than  dogs.  To  be  sure,  it  is  manifest 
that  a  law  book  is  not  the  place  to  state  that  the  Christians  are  worse  than  dogs  ;  but 
it  is  perverse  to  infer  from  here  that  Dr.  Justus  has  falsified  the  text.  This  sentence 
was  namely  brought  forth  as  a  foundation  of  law  31,  where  note  3  remarks,  however, 
that  it  is  borrowed  from  the  renowned  exegete  Rashi." 

We  do  not  know  the  passage  attributed  to  Rashi.  However, 
places  of  this  nature  are  not  rare  in  the  Talmud.  Let  us  quote  such 
a  passage.  The  question  was  discussed,  for  whom  it  is  allowed  to 
prepare  food  on  a  holiday;  in  this  connection  it  reads:  "What 
causes  you  to  exclude  the  Akum  from,  and  to  introduce  the  dogs  into, 
the  law  ? "  "  The  dogs  depend  on  you  in  their  food  and  rearing,  there- 
fore I  treat  of  them  in  the  law,  but  the  Akum  I  exclude,  for  no  one 
is  obliged  to  take  care  of  him,"  (Betza,  21b).  Rashi  has  surely 
commented  on  such  a  place  in  the  Talmud,  and  Dr.  Justus  was 
dexterous  enough  to  forge  thereof  a  poisoned  arrow  and  to  direct 
it  as  best  it  suits  his  instincts.  But  is  here  even  a  particle  of  in- 
sinuating contempt  and  depreciation  of  an  Akum  or  a  Christian? 
In  the  foregoing  quotation  the  question  is  discussed  as  to  the  pre- 
paring of  food  on  such  holidays  that  do  not  coincide  with  the  Sab- 
bath, which  preparing  is  allowed  only  for  such  persons  and  animals 
that  depend  on  others  in  their  food.  We  refer  yet  the  reader  to  our 
next  observation. 

"  Another  point  was  contended  against  by  Herr  Treu,  in  law  17,  which  treats  of 
the  case  that  the  Jews  pray  when  the  plague  rages  in  their  midst,  but  not  when  the 
plague  is  among  animals.  Here  it  reads  further :  '  But  they  do  (pray)  when  the 
plague  is  among  szvine,  as  their  intestines  resembles  those  of  man,  likewise  when  the 
plague  is  among  Akum  (Christians).'  I  agree  with  Herr  Treu  that  in  lieu  of  '  like- 
wise '  should  be  '  the  more  so,'  and  therewith  the  law  loses  its  poignancy,  but  it  looks 
suspicious  all  the  same  that  in  one  and  the  same  line  the  Akum  are  coupled  together 
with  swine." 

The  Herr  Privatdocent  of  the  royal  academy  displayed  masterly 
skill  to  excite  his  audience,  and  to  unbridle  the  passions  of  hatred. 
Verily,  also  we  must  make  an  extraordinary  effort  to  control  our 


APPENDIX  A.  ijj 

agitated  mind.     The  reasons,  however,  lie  by  no  means  in  the 
affected  depreciation  of  the  human  dignity  in  general,  or  of  that  of 
the  Akum  in  particular,  no  matter  who  is  meant  thereby  as  ascer- 
tained by  the  Expert,  but  in  the  boundless  ignorance  of  this  theo- 
logical doctor,  which  is  truly  astonishing,  nay  startling.     And  yet 
he  asserts  to  have  been  studying  Semitica  for  ten  years!     David, 
the  King  of  Israel,  was  considered  by  the  older  Rabbis,  the  high- 
est imattainable  authority,  the  ideal  of  the  Jewish  people.     As 
far  as  rank  and  merits  are  concerned,  they  put  him  above  the  Patri- 
archs Moses  and  Joshua,  each  of  whom,  they  tell  us,  had  his  hands 
stained  in  one  way  or  other,  wherefore  none  of  them  was  honored 
with  saying  the  benediction  over  the  goblet.     David,  however,  was 
found  wholly  stainless,  the  goblet  was  predestined  for  him,  and  only 
he  was  allowed  to  grasp  it  and  praise  therewith  the  Omnipotent! 
This  legend  is  to  be  found  in  Talmud  (Pesachim,  119).    But  the  very 
same  so  highly  revered  David  is  somewhere  else  coupled  together 
with  dogs,  and,  in  defiance  of  all  shame  and  discretion,  treated  even 
worse  than  a  dog — in  the  sense  of  Justus  and  Ecker.     It  is  namely 
recorded :  David  died,  and  his  son  and  successor  to  the  throne,  Solo- 
mon ,  had  his  messenger  ask  in  the  college  as  follows :  ' '  The  remains  of 
my  royal  father  are  exposed  to  the  scorching  sun  rays,  the  dogs  of 
my  father's  household  are  hungry  and  menace  them,  may  I  in  view 
of  all  this  touch  on  the  day  of  Sabbath  the  remains,  and  have  them 
sheltered?  "    Hereupon  came  the  answer:  "First  of  all  satisfy  the 
hunger  of  the  dogs  by  having  a  carcass  cut  to  them ;  thereafter  put 
upon  your  father's  corpse  a  loaf  of  bread  or  a  child,  then  you  may 
have  it  removed  into  the  shade."     Contemplating  this,  Solomon 
made  in  his  later  years  the  utterance:  "Truly  the  living  dog  is 
better  than  the  dead  lion."     Thus  reads  the  legend  in  the  Talmud 
(Sabbath,  32).     And  more  yet;  of  their  own  people  the  sages  say: 
"Three  are  insolent,  Israel  among  the  nations,  the  dog  among  the 
animals,  the  cock  among  the  birds  "  (Betza,  25).    Who  would  assert 
that  in  these  passages  David  and  Isreal  are  depreciated?    This 
elementary  point  should  not  have  escaped  the  consciousness  of  a 
theologian  trained  in  the  Hebrew  and  Rabbinical  literature,  viz., 
that  expressions  of  this  kind  were  current  among  the  law  teachers 
of  those  days,  without,  however,  any  intention  on  their  part  to  either 
elevate  or  degrade  any  one !     Again,  we  read  in  the  Talmud  (Pesach, 
112):  "The  rabbis  taught,  there  are  three  who  hate  one  another: 
the  dogs,  the  cocks,  and  the  sages."     Others  add  yet  the  rival  wo- 
men, still  others  also  the  teachers  at  the  Babylonian  academies. 
Well,  Dr.  Ecker,  what  would  you  say  to  this  point?     Could  the 
sages  find  no  better  company  than  the  dogs,  cocks  and  rivals?  And 


136  APPENDIX  A. 

again,  are  the  Evangelists  more  moderate  in  their  language?  Does 
not  Matthew  also  call  the  nations  dogs  and  swine?  (Mat.,  6,  7). 
Where  then  is  here  room  for  indignation?  The  patriarch  Jacob 
on  his  death-bed  blesses  his  sons  who  surround  him.  Their  char- 
acteristic merits  and  defects  he  designates  by  animal  forms  which 
they  resemble.  Jehudah  he  calls  a  young  lion,  Naftali  a  bitch, 
Issachar  an  ass,  Dan  a  serpent,  Benjamin,  his  youngest  favorite, 
a  rending  wolf.  Moses,  too,  calls  in  his  farewell  blessing  the  tribe 
of  Joseph,  "a  first-bom  ox."  Should  these  two  reverend  old  men 
have  had  the  malicious  intention,  at  the  most  serious  moment  when 
they  were  preparing  to  part  with  life,  to  revile  and  insult?  Here 
is  a  point  for  Herr  Dr.  Ecker  to  meditate  on !  * 

No.  21.  As  we  are  lacking  in  time  we  requested  the  dean  of  this 
faculty  to  send  us  a  copy  of  the  curriculum  with  an  admission  card, 
so  that  we  might  arrive  at  the  exact  hour  appointed  for  some  lec- 
tures on  the  Talmud  and  on  theology  which  we  saw  announced  in 
the  programme ;  to  which  we  received  the  following  letter : 

The  Jewish  Theological  Seminary  of  America. 

New  York,  January  5,  1903. 

Dear  Sir: — Your  letter  of  the  21st  ult.  is  just  before  me.  I  have 
not  yet  been  able  to  send  you  a  copy  of  the  curriculum,  which  I  shall 
be  very  glad  to  do  when  it  is  printed.     Whilst  a  weekly  curriculum 

*  We  are  convinced  that  many,  yes,  very  many,  offensive  passages  in  the  Tal- 
mud are  traceable  to  the  Jews-Christians  among  the  Rabbis.  For  a  long  time  these 
Jews-Christians  remained  in  close  relations  with  their  Jewish  brethren,  refrained 
from  ostentatiously  manifesting  their  belief  in  the  messianism  of  Jesus  ;  however,  in 
their  innermost  selves  they  entertained  and  nourished  a  more  and  more  unfolding 
rancor  against  the  teachings  as  well  as  against  the  authority  of  the  law  teachers,  who 
would  by  means  of  all  imaginable  contrivances  interfere  with  their  clandestine  plans 
to  carry  on  propaganda  for  their  idea.  Jacob  from  Kefar  Sekania  and  Jacob  Minaah 
(Megila,  23)  are  mentioned  as  such,  and  there  must  have  been  many  of  this  class.  It 
is  to  these  Jews-Christians  that  we  attribute  the  authorship  of  some  of  the  above-cited 
sentences  that  sound  in  a  measure  defamatory  to  the  Rabbis.  In  like  manner  the 
foregoing  David  legend  may  have  originated  in  these  circles.  Indeed,  David  was 
far  from  being  stainless  ;  he  himself  was  conscious  of  it  and  expressed  it  in  a  peniten- 
tial psalm  to  which  we  refer  (Psalm  51).  But  as  the  pretended  ancestor  of  Jesus  the 
adherents  of  the  latter  surrounded  him  with  dazzling  though  undeserved  glory.  (We, 
in  our  new  edition  of  the  Talmud  have  omitted  both  legends  concerning  David, 
as  we  are  certain  they  are  not  to  be  ascribed  to  the  Rabbis  of  the  Talmud  ;  see 
also  our  edition  [Betza,  49]  footnotes.  We  have  omitted  the  whole  saying  but 
Maelits,  for  the  same  reason.)  In  this,  our  pamphlet,  from  page  35  on,  we  explain 
all  the  passages  where  Akum  is  mentioned  and  what  it  signifies,  not  by  suppositions 
but  by  facts,  and  as  it  is  written  in  the  German  language,  we  may  refer  the  reader, 
who  would  like  to  know  this,  to  them. 


APPENDIX  A.  137 

has  been  adopted  for  the  year,  some  of  its  provisions  are  still  under 
advisement,  and  I  have  not  deemed  it  wise  to  put  it  in  print. 

I  have  not  at  the  moment  any  copy  of  the  hours  of  the  lectures 
either,  nor  do  I  really  think  it  would  be  profitable  for  you  to  attend 
an  occasional  lecture,  as  you  suggest.  You  reaHze,  too,  that  the 
classes  must  necessarily  consist  of  young  men,  that  practically 
every  hour  involves  a  certain  amount  of  recitation,  and  that  the 
students  will  feel  awkward,  or  necessarily  ill  at  ease,  in  the  presence 
of  some  one  older  than  themselves. 

Yours  very  truly, 

S.  SCHECHTER, 

President  of  the  Faculty. 
Michael  L.  Rodkinson,  Esq., 

No.  22.  The  Jewish  Encyclopaedia  is  undoubtedly  a  monu- 
mental work  and  most  eminent  scholars  in  both  continents  are 
taking  part  in  it,  and  there  a  great  many  scientific  articles  which  are 
instructive  to  the  students  and  also  many  laymen  are  pleased  by 
reading  a  great  deal  of  articles  in  every  branch.  (True,  that  some 
articles  though  scientific  would  be  better  if  omitted  in  the  encyclo- 
pasdia.  We  refer  to  Dr.  P.  Mendus'  message  to  the  Union  Ortho- 
dox congregations  which  took  place  recently.)  However,  because 
it  is  a  monumental  work,  we  cannot  restrain  ourselves  from  re- 
marking that  the  editors  should  be  more  careful  in  their  revision  of 
the  articles.  In  Appendix  No.  8,  we  show  that  the  bibliographies 
are  not  complete  and  now  we  will  remark  that  the  editors  are  not 
careful  in  their  biographies. 

There  is  a  short  biographical  sketch  in  Vol.  I.,  p.  16,  of  Aaron 
Ha-Levi  Ben  Moses  of  Staroselye,  who  was  our  mother's  father.  In 
the  American  Hebrew,  June  28,  1901,  we  have  already  remarked 
that  his  family  name  was  Hurwitz,  which  he  received  from  his 
ancestor,  the  famous  Ishiah  Halevi  Hurivitz,  known  by  the  name 
Shelaw,  the  author  of  "  Snee  Luchoth  Habrith,"  and  this  was 
omitted. 

We  have  then  overlooked  that  his  main  and  wonderful  work, 
"Sharee  Haychud  ve  Haemuna"  (Gates  of  the  Unity  (of  God)  and 
its  Creed)  is  not  mentioned.  This  great  work  has  surprised  not  only 
the  Cabbalists  and  Chasidim,  but  also  the  Maskilim  like  Sneier 
Zachs  and  Lazar  Zwefel.  The  former  mentioned  it  in  his  well- 
known  ' '  Hathchia ' '  thus :  ' '  and  the  wonderful  work  by  Aaron  Huri- 
vitz "  and  so  also  the  latter  in  his  "  Solom  Al  Israel,"  who  speaks  of 
it  enthusiastically  and  at  length.  Remarkable  it  is  that  in  tl:e 
bibliography  of  the  sketch  is  mentioned  Rodkinson' s  "Toldath 


138  APPENDIX  B. 

Amude  Hachabad  "  and  in  this  book  his  family  name  as  well  as  the 
above-mentioned  work  with  more  particulars  are  to  be  found.  By 
this  we  see  that  the  editor  of  this  subject  did  not  care  to  look  up  the 
bibliography  at  least  to  make  it  correct.  He  should  at  least  have 
seen  Fiinns'  "  Kneset  Israel,"  in  which  the  name  and  the  books 
are  mentioned. 

All  this  concerns  the  incorrect  biography.  Should  we  count  the 
omissions  of  the  names  of  very  great  men,  even  only  of  Aaron  and 
Abraham  of  all  classes,  who  ought  to  be  mentioned  in  the  encyclo- 
paedia, who  played  a  great  role  in  Israel,  it  would  take  too  much 
space  and  time.  A  glance  into  our  Biographie  sdmmtlicher  Rah- 
hiner  der  Gouvernnients  Vollhynien,  Podolien,  Ukraine,  Gross-  u. 
Klein-Polen  und  Galizien  von  Jahre  1695  bis  1876  (Konigsberg 
1876),  pp.  30-34,  will  convince  the  reader  of  this. 


APPENDIX  B. 

CRITICISM    TO    CHAPTER    VII    (KARAITES).       THE    BELIEF    OF    SADDU- 
CEES,    KARAITES,    AND    OF    THE    REFORMED    JEWS. 

Dr.  Michael  L.  Rodkinson. 

Sir: — Having  read  your  article  about  the  "  The  Karaites"  in  TAe  American 
Hebrew  (23-24),  though  in  general  I  have  found  therein  likely  and  probable  things, 
I  cannot  forbear  from  calling  your  attention  to  several  points  on  which,  in  my  opinion, 
it  behooves  not  a  man  like  you  to  take  a  partial  view,  while  presenting  to  the  readers 
a  historic  account.  It  is  the  duty  of  every  fair  writer  of  history  to  give  an  account  of 
the  facts  without  any  personal  bias,  and  where  there  is  a  difference  of  opinion,  with- 
out sufficient  evidence  for  demonstrating  the  truth  of  any,  then  it  is  the  duty  of  the 
historian  to  state  as  much,  and  if  he  is  able  to  decide  between  them,  he  should  give 
his  opinion  also  ;  if  not,  he  shall  leave  the  task  of  deciding  to  some  of  the  readers 
who  might  be  able,  perhaps,  to  do  so.     But  you  have  not  done  so. 

You  have  written  (p.  685)  that  when  Anan  saw,  etc.,  and  have  ignored,  or  are 
unaware  of,  what  the  head  of  our  poets,  R.  Jehudah  Halevi,  wrote  in  his  "  Cuzari," 
III.,  65,  that  in  the  time  of  Jehudah  b.  Tabi  and  Simon  b.  Shetah  Karaism  com- 
menced an  account  of  what  happened  between  the  Sages  and  the  King  Janasus,  etc., 
Bee  carefully  that  passage,  you  will  find  there  that  R.  Jehudah  Halevi  admits  that  the 
doctrine  of  the  Karaites  is  an  ancient  one.     And  you  ought  to  mention  this  fact. 

So  also  I  do  not  agree  with  you  in  what  you  say,  that  at  present  are  found  only 
4 — 5,000  Karaites  in  the  world.  For,  in  my  opinion,  the  Reformers  in  Europe  and 
America  must  be  regarded  as  Karaites,  as  they  decided  at  their  Congress  at  Rochester 
that  they  do  not  consider  the  Talmud  as  authoritative,  and  that  only  the  Pentateuch 
is  the  basis  of  their  doctrines.  If  it  is  so,  then  they  are  evidently  also  Karaites.  And 
if  in  some  ceremonies  they  differ  from  the  contemporary  Karaites,  for  this  reason  we 
cannot  separate  them  from  them.  You  yourself  enumerate  sects  among  the  Karaites 
distinguished  from  each  other  in  their  ceremonies,  and  yet  they  all  avow  themselves 
to  be  Karaites. 


APPENDIX  B.  13^ 

This  is  what  I  have  wanted  to  remark,  and  if  you  are  conscientious,  you  will 
modify  this,  not  to  mislead  the  future  generations  who  will  read  your  history,  and 
thereby  you  will  insure  yourself  against  critics,  who  condemn  a  whole  book  when 
they  find  in  it  one  thing  which  is  not  quite  right. 

Your  obedient  servant, 

Isaac  Lbvi  Shaut. 

Answer. 

With  many  thanks  for  your  ingenious  remarks,  and  for  your  love 
of  truth  and  eagerness  to  save  me  from  unfair  critics,  I  state  at  your 
desire  what  I  have  to  say  in  reply,  and  what  I  have  omitted  in  the 
article  itself,  viz. : 

First — let  it  be  known  that  I  am  not  writing  the  history  of  the 
Karaites,  but  that  of  the  Talmud,  and  mention  those  who  have  con- 
tributed to  its  extension  and  diffusion,  as  well  as  those  who  perse- 
cuted it,  from  the  time  it  had  begun  to  develop  till  to-day.  For 
this  purpose  it  does  not  matter  whether  Karaites  were  an  old  or  a 
new  sect,  from  the  time  of  Anan,  as  all  admit  that  they  persecuted 
the  Talmud  to  the  utmost.  And  I,  who  have  been,  obliged  to  give 
briefly  the  history  of  the  Karaites  for  the  reason  that  they  perse- 
cuted the  Talmud,  used  as  authorities  the  latest  historians  who  have 
treated  this  subject,  as  Pinsker,  Graetz,  Fiirst,  Geiger  and  Gottlober, 
who  have  all  decided  that  it  was  an  invention  of  Anan  himself. 
But  out  of  respect  to  truth,  I  am  bound  to  tell  you  that  I  was  not 
unaware  of,  nor  did  I  conceal,  what  is  written  about  the  Karaite 
sect  in  the  "Cuzari."  For  of  this  has  the  head  of  the  reformed 
rabbis,  the  learned  scholar  Holdheim,  written  long  ago,  in  his  book 
"Maamar  Haishuth,"  as  much  as  it  is  worth,  and  philosophized 
about  the  assertions  in  the  "  Chasar,"  but  he  also  found  that  he  had 
been  mistaken  in  this  (or  that  he  was  compelled  to  write  this,  for 
reasons  unknown  to  us  at  the  present  day;  I  myself  say,  he  wrote 
thus  because  in  his  days  the  Chasars  were  reported  to  also  be  Kara- 
ites, and  he  who  made  his  book  in  the  form  of  a  controversy  be- 
tween a  Karaite  and  Rabbi  did  not  want  to  charge  it  with  being  a 
new  sect,  but  admitting  one  point,  namely,  that  it  is  an  old  sect,  he 
still  urged  that  there  is  no  foundation  for  it).  And  to  make  you, 
and  those  who  entertain  the  same  opinion,  to  cease  to  think  that 
the  reformers  of  the  present  time  are  "Karaites,"  and  also  that  the 
readers  may  know  what  the  Karaites  plead;  that  the  Karaite  sect 
has  been  from  the  time  of  Moses,  who  was  himself  a  Karaite,  and 
the  Rabbinical  innovation  dates  from  Jeroboam  b.  Nebat,  we  have 
only  to  quote  from  the  above-mentioned  book  of  Holdheim,  p.  117, 
etc.,  and  also  what  he  wrote  to  refute  their  assertions,  p.  122,  and 
also  what  we  will  find  to  remark  on  his  words. 


I40  APPENDIX   B. 

*  It  is  known  that  according  to  the  opinion  of  the  Karaites  them- 
selves in  their  books,  their  belief  and  their  tradition  is  identical  with 
the  Pentateuch.  Together  with  the  body  of  the  Pentateuch,  the 
Lord  communicated  to  Moses  an  oral  comment,  and  he  communi- 
cated to  his  contemporaries,  who  transmitted  it  to  the  succeeding 
generations  till  the  death  of  Solomon.  When  the  people  was  split 
into  two  parties,  one  adhered  to  Rehoboam,  and  the  other  followed 
Jeroboam,  who  sinned  and  led  his  party  into  sin.  The  Karaites 
named  their  traditions  the  inherited  yoke  and  burden,  and  accord- 
ing to  them  there  was  during  all  that  time  only  one  To  rah  for  the 
whole  people,  as  one  God,  and  the  text  and  its  interpretation  were 
inseparable  and  sprung  from  the  same  source,  the  father  of  the 
Karaites  being  Moses  himself,  the  trusted  pastor  who  carried  all 
his  people  on  his  shoulders.  As  Jeroboam  was  one  of  those  who 
had  received  the  tradition  transmitted  from  age  to  age  as  above- 
mentioned,  and  one  of  the  men  of  the  Great  Sanhedrin,  fearing  that 
the  royal  power  should  be  recovered  by  David's  dynasty,  he  in- 
vented strange  and  spurious  interpretations  of  the  Torah  to  replace 
the  good  ones  and  true  ones  which  the  Sanhedrin  had  by  tradition. 
He  presented  it  to  the  people,  whom  he  misled,  and  brought  to  evil. 
The  nation  believed  him,  followed  in  his  footsteps,  exchanged  most 
commandments  of  the  Torah  for  others,  subtracted,  added,  at  their 
pleasure.  Since  then  Israel  was  divided  into  two  sects,  and  the 
Torah  became  two  rival  and  hostile  Torahs.  Judea  kept  the  law 
according  to  the  ancient  custom  received  from  Moses  without  any 
change,  addition  or  subtraction,  Karaism  being  the  modern  con- 
tinuation thereof.  Israel,  on  the  other  hand,  observed  the  laws 
according  to  the  new  manner,  with  alterations,  additions  and  sub- 
tractions invented  by  Jeroboam,  and  Rabbinism  is  its  continuation; 
later  false  prophets  rose  in  Israel,  and,  claiming  divine  inspiration, 
misguided  them,  and  even  some  of  Judea,  etc.  But  Judea,  never- 
theless, continued  to  be  the  seat  of  the  Mosaic  tradition,  as  the 
majority  adhering  most  to  the  truth.  However,  as  the  Temple 
was  demolished,  most  prophets,  priests,  Levites  and  Sanhedrin  were 
slain,  while  those  left  alive  were  mostly  of  the  sinners.  Therefore 
at  the  restoration  of  the  second  Temple,  even  while  there  still  were 
prophets,  who  are  called  the  "good  figs,"  there  were  two  sects  and 
two  separate  Torahs.  After  the  cessation  of  prophetic  inspiration 
this  split  grew  and  widened.  The  party  holding  by  the  truth  said 
the  Torah  was  only  that  one  written  by  Moses  and  given  to  Israel ; 
the  party  believing  in  the  falsehood  said  there  were  two  Torahs, 

*  Translated  almost  verbatim  from  Mamar  Haishuth. 


APPENDIX  B.  141 

written  and  oral,  invented  by  Jeroboam  and  the  false  prophets,  and 
which  they  also  referred  to  Moses,  who  received  it  (according  to 
them)  from  the  Lord.  Thus  it  continued  till  the  time  of  Matthew, 
the  Hasmonean  (Maccabee),  when  Antiochus  the  Wicked,  wishing 
to  suppress  altogether  the  Jewish  lore,  in  which  time  of  calamities 
all  great  sages  of  the  Sanhedrin  who  had  the  true  tradition  of  the 
comment  and  the  Torah  were  all  murdered,  and  the  tradition  till 
then  transmitted,  was  now  severed,  and  the  greater  part  of  the 
comment  and  the  Torah  was  lost  and  forgotton,  only  an  infini- 
tesimal fraction  being  left.  This  fact  took  place  in  the  year  3560 
after  creation. 

As  Matthew  triumphed,  and  peace  was  restored  in  the  land,  the 
men  of  intellect  sat  down  to  learn  the  Torah  and  understand  it  with 
the  aid  of  their  reason.  But  owing  to  its  great  depth,  they  could 
not  comprehend  it,  and  many  diverse  opinions  existed.  Thus  the 
differences  between  sects,  Karaite  as  well  as  Rabbinical,  arose,  and 
persist  to  these  days. 

The  quarrel  between  the  two  sects  grew  in  violence  till  the  time 
of  the  king  and  high-priest  Janeus  was  reached,  and  something 
happened  between  the  sages  and  him,  as  is  well  known,  so  that  he 
massacred  all  the  sages  in  his  anger,  and  none  remained  except  one 
great  man  of  each  sect,  Jehudah  b.  Tabai,  who  held  the  truth,  and 
Simeon  b.  Shetah,  drawn  after  the  false  doctrine  of  Jeroboam  b. 
Nebat  and  the  false  prophets.  The  king,  wishing  to  kill  both, 
Jehudah  b.  Tabai  hid  in  Jerusalem,  and  Simeon  b.  Shetah  was  the 
queen's  brother,  who  facilitated  his  escape  to  Egypt,  where  he 
stayed  three  years;  being  there,  he  learned  from  the  Israelite  sages 
found  there  since  the  destruction  of  the  first  Temple,  and  the  days 
of  Jeremiah,  all  the  strange  comments  invented  by  Jeroboam  and 
the  false  prophets.  Simeon  b.  Shetah  added  thereto  some  of  his 
own,  and  built  there  a  great  temple  and  sacrificed  there,  though 
it  was  not  the  chosen  place ;  and  after  his  return  to  Jerusalem  he 
wanted  to  be  a  great  lord  in  Israel,  and  taught,  therefore,  the  people 
what  he  had  acquired  in  Egypt,  as  the  oral  law  communicated  to 
Moses,  and  transmitted  by  him;  and,  because  he  was  the  king's 
brother-in-law  and  had  much  influence  at  the  court,  his  false  doc- 
trines became  popular  among  Israel,  who  received  the  false  Torah 
instead  of  the  true  one. 

After  that  Israel  was  divided  into  two  parties,  and  the  quarrel 
commenced  also  in  the  Sanhedrin,  the  heads  of  the  nation,  and  heirs 
and  teachers  of  the  Torah.  One  sect  went  after  R.  Jehudah  b. 
Tabai  and  was  called  Sadducees  (Zadikim)  (Upright),  ^from  the 
phrase  "hearken  unto  me,  ye  that  pursue  righteousness"  (Zadik) 


142  APPENDIX  B. 

[Is,  li.,  I.],  and  their  justice  is  everlasting  justice,  and  their  Torah 
is  truth;  Karaism  is  a  continuation  thereof.  The  second  sect  fol- 
lowed Simeon  b.  Shetah,  and  were  called  Pharisees  (Parushim), 
separatists,  for  separating  themselves  from  the  old  faith  of  Israel. 
This  state  of  things  continued  from  3650  after  creation,  from  the 
time  of  Jehudah  b.  Tabai,  till  the  ruin  of  the  second  Temple,  year 
3828.  At  that  epoch,  the  majority  of  the  Sadducees  were  slain, 
but  the  Pharisees  mostly  survived,  for  which  there  were  two  causes: 
first,  because  those  of  the  Sadducaic  party  were  the  political  and 
warlike  men,  while  the  Pharisees  were  humble  and  were  students; 
secondly,  because  the  Sadducees  were  stricter  in  observing  the 
duties,  and  their  conduct  was  of  much  holiness  and  purity,  and  had 
seen  that  if  they  were  to  be  exiled,  being  an  unclean  earth,  and  with- 
out water  for  removing  the  uncleanness,  they  could  not  keep  the 
law  as  it  ought  to  be;  therefore  they  were  martyrs,  choosing  to  be 
murdered  rather  than  live,  and  all  were  killed  for  the  sanctification 
of  the  Lord.  Put  the  Pharisees  who  were  not  strict,  and  were  not 
afraid  of  the  ruin  of  the  Temple  or  exile,  and  chose  life  rather  than 
death,  and  went  out  to  Titus,  the  Wicked,  and,  surrendering,  were 
all  left  alive.  Therefore,  after  the  ruin  of  the  Temple  the  Pharisees 
rose  in  power,  whereas  the  Sadducees  declined.  Thus  it  continued 
till  R.  Jehudah  the  Nassi,  the  editor  of  the  Mishna.  He  collected 
all  comments,  good  and  bad,  true  and  false,  ancient  and  recent,  all 
together;  he  wrote  them  down  in  a  book  without  making  distinc- 
tions between  the  sacred  and  profane,  unclean  and  clean ;  he  decided 
and  declared  that  they  are  all  Sinaic.     This  occurred  in  3945. 

After  the  conclusion  of  the  Mishna,  rose  up  those  who  composed 
the  Palestinian  and  Babylonian  Talmuds,  and  from  that  time  on 
the  quarrel  grew  in  force,  and  the  hate,  rivalry  and  jealousy  grew 
between  the  two  sects,  the  Sadducees  and  Pharisees.  For  the 
Sadducees  held  the  true  Torah,  written  by  Moses  our  teacher,  and 
those  few  true  comments  that  have  been  left  from  many;  but  the 
Pharisees  abandoned  the  written  Torah  and  ignored  it  as  of  subor- 
dinate importance,  and  clung  to  the  oral  law,  that  is,  the  Mishna 
and  the  Talmud,  making  it  the  thing  of  the  first  importance,  saying 
that  tradition  will  be  victorious.  They  said  every  one  who  studies 
the  written  law  has  fulfilled  only  partially  his  obligations,  but  every 
one  who  studies  Mishna  or  Talmud  he  has  completely  discharged 
his  obligations;  every  one  who  trangresses  the  written  law  is  cul- 
pable of  stripes,  who  transgresses  the  words  of  the  sages  is  guilty  of 
capital  punishment,  and  that  one  should  not  object  even  if  they  say 
to  you  of  the  right  that  it  is  the  left,  and  of  the  left  that  it  is  the 
right  and  similar  erroneous  teachings.     Thus  it  continued  to  be  till 


APPENDIX  B.  143 

the  time  of  Anan  the  Nassi,  the  Holy  and  the  Saint,  the  son  of  David 
the  Nassi,  in  the  year  4400  after  the  creation.  Anan  *  Hved  in 
Babylonia  and  was  of  the  Sadducees,  and  for  his  great  wisdom 
Israel,  Sadducees  as  well  as  Pharisees,  chose  him  as  Nassi,  as  the 
head  of  Beth  Din  and  Exilarch.  After  his  instalment  as  Nassi  and 
head  of  Beth  Din  by  the  sanction  of  the  Arabian  monarch,  and  the 
will  of  all  Israel,  he  became  zealous  for  God  and  his  Torah,  and 
wished  to  restore  it  to  its  primitive  purity ;  he  commenced  to  plead 
against  the  oral  law,  i.e.,  the  Mishna,  and  deny  and  declare  it  as 
nought.  When  the  Pharisaic  sect  perceived  all  this,  they  rose  upon 
him  and  devised  stratagems  to  kill  him.  But  out  of  fear  of  the  king, 
they  did  not  lay  their  hands  on  him,  but  denounced  him  to  the  king 
that  he  had  rebelled  against  the  law  of  the  government,  but  the  king 
pitied  him  and  saved  him  from  them,  and  so  he  was  left  alive.  When 
Anan  perceived  that  the  Pharisees  did  not  want  to  return  to  the 
truth,  he  was  disgusted  with  being  a  Nassi,  left  his  house  and  pos- 
sessions in  Babylonia,  and  departed  with  his  sons  and  disciples  to 
Jerusalem,  the  Sacred  City.  He  built  there  a  synagogue,  "The 
Temple  of  God,"  to  pray  and  to  weep  morning,  noon  and  evening; 
and  perceiving  that  the  Pharisees  were  increasing,  and  that  the 
Sadducees  decreased,  and  fearing  lest  the  true  Torah  be  forgotten 
entirely,  and  lest  the  Sadducees  be  absorbed  in  time  by  the  Phari- 
sees, he  commanded  his  disciples,  friends  and  acquaintances,  to 
keep  themselves  apart  from  the  sect  of  the  Pharisees  wholly  and 
with  the  utmost  possible  strictness.  He  forbade  them  to  eat  their 
foods,  for  they  are  not  careful  about  all  kinds  of  uncleanness,  and 
eat  carcasses  and  tallow  prohibited  by  the  Torah.  So  also  he  for- 
bade them  to  intermarry  with  them,  because  they  had  trespassed 
the  barriers  of  consanguinity.  And  Anan  interpreted  the  Torah 
and  commandments  according  to  the  true  comment,  as  he  had  re- 
ceived it  from  his  fathers  and  masters  by  tradition,  who  belonged 
to  the  sect  of  Sadducees,  continuing  from  the  oldest  times;  and  as 
the  whole  Sadducean  doctrine  is  founded  on  the  text  of  the  Holy 
Scriptures,  Pentateuch,  Prophets  and  Hagiographas,  therefore  Anan 
the  Nassi  called  the  Sadducean  sect  "Karaites,"  (Karaim),  that  is, 
who  are  called  and  go  in  their  simplicity.  (Ba'ale  Mikre) :  and  as 
the  whole  object  of  the  Pharisees  was  to  pursue  high  positions  and 
lordliness,  and  also  because  they  are  many  in  comparison  with  the 


*  It  is  well  known  that  the  Karaites  make  Anan's  life  date  100  years  earlier  than 
in  reality,  i.e.,  4400.  But  S.  L.  Rapoport,  in  his  "  Kerem  Chemed,"  p.  203,  has 
explained  and  proved  their  mistake,  from  the  testimony  of  Sherira  the  Gaon,  and 
the  "  Book  of  Tradition,"  by  Abraham  b.  David,  that  Anan  rose  in  the  age  of  Jchuda 
the  Gaon,  who  was  a  Gaon  from  4516  to  452g>^. 


144  APPENDIX  B. 

few  Karaites,  he  called  them  "Rabbanim,"  (lords,  many),  that  is, 
the  adherents  of  the  Mishna  and  Talmud.  .  .  . 

This  is  the  opinion  of  the  Karaites  themselves  about  their  his- 
tory, and  that  every  one  who  wishes  to  know  and  understand  all 
the  errors  of  the  Rabbis  (according  to  them),  should  see  the  Book 
of  God's  Wars,  ("Sepher  Milhamoth  Adonai"),  by  Salman  b.  Je- 
rucham,  and  the  Admonitory  letter  ("Igereth  Hatochachath"),  by 
Sahal  Hakohen,  and  "Eshkol  Hakopher,"  by  Jehudah  Hadasi 
Haabel  (the  Mourner),  he  called  himself  thus  for  mourning,  and 
"  Apiryon  Asah,"  and  "L'hem  Sheorim,"  by  R.Solomon  the  Turk, 
also  the  "Asara  Maamaroth,"  of  Elijah  the  Jerusalemite,  and  the 
"  Amuna  Omen"  by  Abraham  b.  Joshua  the  Jerusalemite,  all 
which  books  are  written  to  refute  the  false  Rabbinical  laws  ;  and 
of  the  Rabbinical  sages  after  Anan  they  say  that  when  they  saw 
that  the  plain  and  just  truth  is  evidently  on  the  side  of  the  Sad- 
ducees,  they  invented  about  them  calumnies,  that  they  were  Sad- 
ducees  and  Bithusiaus  followers  of  Zaduk  and  Bithus,  the  infidels, 
and  their  glory  they  confounded  with  shame  by  conscious  falsehood 
for  whereas  they  had  been  called  Tzadikim  from  ancient  times, 
they  altered  their  name  to  Tzadukim  (Sadducees,  Zadukim),  fol- 
lowers of  Tsaduk,  etc.,  etc." 

...  *  Here  we  have  given  to  the  reader  what  we  have  briefly 
quoted  so  far  as  needful  for  our  purpose,  and  to  spare  much  of  our 
own  discussion  by  citing  the  words  of  another.  From  "Orah 
Tzadikim"  treating  of  the  split  between  the  Karaites  and  Rabbis, 
written  by  the  scholarly  rabbi,  Sim'ha  Isaac  of  Lutzki  in  5516. 
And  we,  desiring  to  call  the  attention  of  scholars  and  thinkers  to 
the  affirmations  of  the  Karaites  themselves  about  their  ancient 
history,  both  their  charges  against  us  and  their  justifications  of 
themselves,  have  abridged  their  statements,  for  it  is  our  duty  to 
hear  what  they  say  for  themselves,  and  try  to  separate  the  truths 
from  the  falsehoods  as  impartial  judges,  not  as  advocates. 

And,  before  all,  I  say,  the  man  is  dreaming  who  speaks  that  the 
difference  between  the  Karaites  and  Rabbis  began  in  the  time  of 
Rehoboam ;  the  son  of  Solomon,  and  of  Jeroboam,  the  son  of  Nebat, 
when  Israel  revolted  against  David's  dynasty.  And  if  the  Rabbis 
were  to  make  such  a  senseless  assertion,  that  the  rebels  against 
David's  dynasty  were  the  same  that  the  Karaites  are,  beyond  doubt 
the  Karaites  would  say  that  they  pervert  the  words  of  the  living 
God  and  deny  what  is  written  in  the  Prophets,  that  Jeroboam  led 
away  the  people  from  the  worship  of  the  true  God  who  had  pro- 

*  Page  122,  Iloldheim's  opinion. 


APPENDIX  B. 

145 

tected  them  from  the  times  of  Egypt  till  then,  to  serve  golden  calves 
which  he  had  made,  and  made  a  festival  in  a  wrong  month  which 
he  invented  that  the  people  should  not  go  to  celebrate  the  holidays 
at  Jerusalem,  and  the  royalty  not  be  restored  to  David's  house. 
The  Karaites  state  here  a  strange  fiction,  which  is  ridiculed  by  every 
one  who  has  any  knowledge  of  books. 

Besides  that,  any  one  who  has  eyes  to  see,  ears  to  hear,  and  a 
palate  to  taste,  that  which  is  written  in  the  Scriptures,  is  aware  that 
during  all  the  time  of  the  prophets  till  the  exile  of  Israel  and  Judea 
from  their  land  and  captivity  in  the  land  of  their  enemies,  the  quar- 
rel between  the  parties  was  not  about  the  interpretation  of  the 
Torah,  or  about  the  reasons  of  the  commandments,  but  about  the 
Torah  itself,  between  those  who  knew  it  and  those  who  did  not 
know  it,  between  the  worshippers  of  the  true  God  and  the  idolators. 
The  prophets  of  the  true  God,  and  the  best  element  of  the  people 
who  followed  them,  have  served  God  and  loved  him,  and  were  his 
true  servants,  adhered  to  him  and  observed  his  commandments  and 
his  law.  But  the  king  and  the  common  people  devoted  themselves 
to  drink,  to  idolatry,  adultery,  and  other  uncleanness  of  the  other 
nations  of  their  time. 

And  truly,  the  author  of  the  "Orach  Zadikim,"  as  well  as  the 
writers  whom  he  quotes,  have  not  adhered  to  the  truth  but  in- 
dulged in  falsehoods,  by  fixing  the  beginning  of  this  quarrel  at 
a  time  which  it  was  impossible  to  have  begun.  And  if  the  author 
and  his  co-religionists  fully  believe  that  the  present  Pentateuch 
was  known  to  and  in  the  possession  of  the  names  in  the  days  of 
David  and  Solomon,  Rehoboam  and  Jeroboam,  and  that,  to- 
gether with  the  written  Torah  and  its  commentaries  it  was  in  the 
possession  of  the  Sanhedrin  and  the  members  of  the  great  and 
small  Beth  Din  of  those  days,  as  the  same  belief  was  entertained 
by  the  Pharisees  from  the  written  Torah  and  its  commentaries, — 
we  will  not  plead  with  them  to  question  or  reflect  upon  this  be- 
lief, and  state  from  the  investigations  of  the  modern  as  well  as 
the  ancient  critics,  that  the  Pentateuch  was  at  that  time  of  recent 
date  and  no  one  knew  of  it  because  it  had  been  written  only  in 
the  days  of  Solomon,  and  no  one  had  seen  it, — for  it  would  be 
unfair  to  refute  a  warranted  belief  on  one  hand  by  a  total  denial 
on  the  other.  But  we  will  argue  from  the  standpoint  of  the  Ka- 
raites themselves,  who  adhere  to  the  text  and  deny  the  commen- 
taries which  are  conflicting  with  the  ordinary  interpretation  of  the 
Scripture.  For  they  themselves  have  interpreted  the  Scripture 
wrongly,  and  ascribed  to  it  a  meaning  which  has  never  been  in- 
tended, by  stating  that  the  quarrel  between  Israel  and  Judea, 


146  APPENDIX  B. 

or  between  Jeroboam  and  Rehoboam,  has  caused  a  quarrel,  in 
no  way  or  manner  resembling  it,  between  the  Karaites  and  the 
Rabbis  regarding  the  interpretation  of  the  Scripture.  This  is  one 
of  those  falsehoods  which  have  absolutely  no  foundation  what- 
ever, and  are  shunned  by  those  who  are  able  to  distinguish  be- 
tween truth  and  falsehood. 

The  statement  that  the  difference  between  the  Karaites  and 
Rabbis  dates  from  the  time  the  difference  between  Jehudah  b. 
Tabai  and  Simeon  b.  Shetah  broke  out,  etc.,  is  nothing  but  a  net 
spread  out  by  the  Karaites  to  catch  therein  the  people  of  Israel, 
etc.  But  it  is  up  to  date  not  known  who  is  the  author  of  this 
statement  and  who  circulated  it  among  the  Karaites  that  they 
might  make  it  the  foundation  of  their  structure,  which  founda- 
tion, if  demolished,  would  cause  the  ruin  of  the  whole  structure. 

There  is  no  doubt  in  our  mind  that  the  Karaites  have  borrowed 
this  statement  from  the  Pharisees  when  endeavoring  to  separate 
from  the  Sadducees,  whom  they  also  considered  as  infidels,  and 
to  erect  a  new  edifice  for  themselves,  for  the  Pharisees  also  con- 
sider Simeon  b.  Shetah  to  have  restored  the  Torah  to  her  old 
glory,  as  they  state  in  the  mentioned  Boraitha:  "The  world  was 
embarrassed  until  Simeon  b.  Shetah  appeared  and  restored  the 
Torah  to  her  former  state."  And  here  they  found  an  opportunity 
to  use  the  Pharisees '  arguments  against  them.  The  Pharisees  say 
that  after  the  massacre  of  the  sages  and  those  learned  in  the  tra- 
ditional law  by  Johanan  Hyrcanus,  the  oral  law  was  forgotten  in 
Israel  till  Simeon  b.  Shetah  came  and  restored  it.  By  oral  law 
is  meant  that  traditional  comment  on  the  Torah  as  it  was  after- 
ward written  down  and  concluded  by  R.  Jehudah  the  Nasi  and 
his  successors  in  the  Mishna  and  Talmud  against  which  the  Ka- 
raites protest.  Now,  the  difference  between  restoration  and  inno- 
vation is  insignificant,  and  what  the  Pharisees  and  Rabbis  term 
restoration  the  Karaites  name  innovation,  and  maintain  that  Simeon 
b.  Shetah  made  a  neiv  law,  that  is  the  oral  law  which  was  unknown 
previously,  and  had  not  descended  to  them  from  their  forefathers: 
and  from  this  new  law  a  new  quarrel  sprung  forth  among  those 
who  believed  in  tradition,  which  quarrel  has  no  connection  what- 
ever with  the  old  controversy  between  the  disciples  of  Sadduk 
and  Bithus,  the  infidels,  and  the  Josees,  the  believers,  on  whom 
all  Israel  leant. 

As  for  the  statement  of  the  Karaites  above  mentioned  that  their 
belief  dates  from  the  time  of  the  second  Temple,  etc.,  and  that 
only  Anan  brought  it  to  light  again,  after  it  had  disappeared,  the 
same  was  very  ably  criticised  by  the  scholarly  rabbi,  S.  J.  Rapa- 


port  ("Kerem  Hemed,"  p.  200),  by  laying  out  his  own  plan  for 
the  investigation  of  the  causes  of  the  Karaite  history;  he  says, 
namely:  "The  activity  of  Anan  was  not  isolated  in  its  kind, 
but  it  was  only  a  link  in  the  chain  of  the  history  of  the  nations 
of  those  days.  For  there  existed  religious  differences  among  the 
Arabians,  some  holding  only  the  Koran  and  what  Mahomet  com- 
municated to  his  son-in-law  Eli,  and  who  are  known  as  the  Shitin; 
while  some  held  the  traditions  communicated  by  Mahomet,  his 
wife  and  son-in-law,  his  sons,  and  many  disciples,  who  are 
known  as  the  Shonin." 

And  it  seems  that  this  religious  quarrel  has,  to  our  shame,  in- 
fected the  Jews;  Anan  and  Saul,  his  sons,  tried  to  establish  a 
new  sect  in  Israel  similar  to  the  Shitin,  for  they  thought  that  the 
Arabian  high  officers  would  assist  them,  for  they  would  be  at  one 
with  them  in  taking  for  the  basis  of  their  belief  only  what  is  written 
in  the  text,  and  to  deny  tradition.  And  how  many  times  have 
religious  movements,  similar  to  those,  taken  place  among  the 
nations  among  which  we  live,  even  in  our  own  times. 

Having  thus  laid  before  the  reader  the  views  of  the  Karaites 
themselves,  i.e.,  of  those  later  Karaites  who  endeavored  to  justify 
Anan  for  his  complete  separation  from  the  Rabbanism,  although 
Anan  himself  was  very  far  from  doing  so,  as  can  easily  be  seen 
by  every  one  who  has  some  sense  of  his  own,  from  the  statement 
of  Anan:  "And  I  will  prepare  you  a  Mishnaand  Talmud  myself," 
(vide  supra,  p.  27),  and  also  some  of  the  opinions  of  the  scholars 
Holdheim  and  Rapaport,  we  wish  to  submit  our  own  opinion 
in  regard  to  this  matter. 

In  our  judgment  they  all  erred  in  making  the  following  two 
assertions,  viz:  that  the  Sadducees  did  not  believe  in  retribution 
in  the  world  to  come ;  and  that  the  Talmudists  had  no  knowledge 
of  a  sect  naming  itself,  or  which  was  named  by  others,  Karaites. 
The  error  in  making  these  assertions  caused  them  to  draw  far- 
fetched inferences  and  to  write  a  number  of  articles,  which  will 
not  stand  any  proper  criticism.  For  Holdheim,  in  refuting  upon 
the  assertion  of  the  Karaites  that  their  sect  was  founded  in  the 
days  of  Jehudah  b.  Tobai,  fixes  their  origin  at  a  much  prior  date, 
by  stating  that  the  Sadducees  and  Karaites  are  one  and  the  same 
sect,  and  that  the  latter  name  was  adopted  by  them  at  a  later 
date,  but  at  the  time  of  the  Talmud  they  were  known  by  the 
former  name,  and  that  accounts  for  not  finding  the  name  Karaites 
in  the  Talmud,  (see  at  length,  ibid,,  p.  25),  basing  his  assertions 
on  Maimonidus  and  Abraham  b.  David  of  Paskira.  Some  of  these 
assertions  may  be  found  in  Rapaport,  although  he  tries  to  recon- 


148  APPENDIX  B. 

cile  both  sides.  And  because  the  Karaites  differed  from  the  Sad- 
ducees  in  that  the  latter  did  not  beheve  in  resurrection,  and, 
according  to  him,  also  not  in  retribution  after  death,  Holdheim 
asserts  that  the  Karaites,  who  are  the  same  as  the  Sadducees, 
have  adopted  that  belief  only  at  a  later  date,  when  that  belief 
has  already  been  adopted  by  all  other  nations  and  religions. 

And  coming  to  such  conclusion  he  justifies  the  Sadducees  and 
their  views,  and  gives  them  preference  over  the  Rabbanism  and 
their  views,  which  constitutes  almost  the  whole  subject  of  his 
book.  But  we  will  prove  his  error,  and  therefore  most  of  his  as- 
sertions will  prove  of  no  value,  and  the  Talmudists  and  their 
views  and  teachings  will  remain  true  and  everlasting. 

But  before  attempting  to  explain  ourselves  in  more  detail  we 
feel  it  our  duty  to  say  a  few  words  in  regard  to  Resurrection,  which 
is  the  basis  of  the  whole  contention  between  the  scholars  above 
mentioned  and  the  sects  themselves. 

The  first  Mishna  in  Chapt.  Halek  (Sanhedrin)  reads:  "The  fol- 
lowing have  no  share  in  the  world  to  come:  the  one  who  says  the 
Resurrection  does  not  originate  from  the  Pentateuch,"  which  is 
explained  by  Rashi  as  follows:  "i.e.,  he  who  does  not  believe  in 
the  inferences  drawn  later  on  in  the  German  that  resurrection  orig- 
inates from  the  Bible ;  and  even  if  he  does  believe  in  resurrection, 
but  says  that  it  does  not  originate  from  the  Pentateuch,  he  is  an 
infidel,  for  if  he  does  not  believe  in  its  origin  from  the  Bible  what 
do  we  care  for  him  or  his  belief?  Wherefrom  does  he  know  that 
so  it  is  ?  He  is,  therefore,  a  perfect  infidel."  And  although 
some  doubt  whether  these  quoted  words  came  from  the  pen  of 
Rashi,  because  it  was  not  Rashi 's  way  to  enter  into  lengthy  ex- 
planations, still  all  concede  that  it  expresses  the  true  meaning  of 
the  Mishna. 

Now,  if  we  will  take  the  true  intent  of  the  Talmudists,  that 
although  one  believes  in  resurrection  he  is  an  infidel,  if  he  does 
not  believe  that  its  origin  is  from  the  Pentateuch,  we  will  at  once 
conceive  that  when  the  latter  belief  began  to  circulate  among 
all  nations  and  among  the  masses  of  Israel  to  such  an  extent  that 
it  was  considered  an  essential  element  of  the  belief  in  God,  and 
that  any  religion  which  did  not  consider  it  one  of  its  dogmas,  was 
not  worthy  of  being  ranked  as  a  religion  at  all,  the  Talmudists 
endeavored  to  prove  the  origin  of  this  belief  from  the  Pentateuch 
and  that  other  nations  and  religions  borrowed  it  from  that  source, 
in  order  to  refute  those  who  asserted  that  its  origin  was  in  the 
New  Testament  and,  therefore,  the  latter  was  the  principal  re- 
ligion and  the  former  ceased  to  exist. 


APPENDIX  B.  149 

We  will  now  take  up  another  Mishna  in  Tract  Berachoth,  p.  54a: 
"Since  the  Sadducees  have  perversely  taught  that  there  is  only 
one  state  of  existence,  it  was  ordained  that  it  shall  be  pronounced: 
'From  Eternity  to  Eternity,'"  which  Rashi  explains,  i.e.,  "that 
they  denied  resurrection."  Rashi  again  diverts  the  Mishna  from 
its  plain  meaning,  that  the  Sadducees  did  not  admit  the  existence 
of  the  world  to  come,  i.e.,  retribution  after  the  soul  separates  from 
the  body,  and  limited  their  disbelief  to  resurrection  only;  (and 
that  the  meaning  of  "perversely  taught"  means  that  they  per- 
verted from  their  own  opinions  and  taught  the  masses  that  belief). 

It  is  self-evident  that  the  perversion  of  the  Sadducees  consisted, 
according  to  Rashi,  only  in  denying  the  inferences  drawn  to  es- 
tablish the  origin  of  resurrection  in  the  Pentateuch.  But  from 
the  dispute  of  the  Sadducees  with  the  founder  of  the  Christian 
religion,  or  with  his  disciples,  and  from  the  derisive  question, 
"whom  of  them  a  widow  of  seven  brothers  will  marry  after  resur- 
rection," which  is  quoted  in  the  work  of  Azariah  Di  Rossi,  we 
can  easily  see  that  the  Sadducees  did  not  believe  in  resurrection 
at  all. 

If  we  will  examine  carefully  the  interpretations  of  the  Tal- 
mudists  in  desiring  to  find  a  hint  for  resurrection  in  the  Pentateuch, 
and  that  they  did  not  infer  it  from  the  plain  statement  (Deutr. 
xxxii.  39):  "/  alone  kill  and  I  make  alive;  I  wound  and  I  heal," 
which,  on  every  occasion  they  explained  to  mean  "as  the  healing 
follows  the  wound,  so  also  does  life  follow  death  "  (see  Ben  Ezra), 
but  resorted  to  far-fetched  interpretations  instead,  we  will  clearly 
see  that  the  Talmudists  did  not  wish  to  state  that  resurrection  is 
expressly  stated  in  the  Pentateuch,  for  in  such  case  they  would, 
of  necessity,  have  to  admit  that  this  belief  was  known  and  cir- 
culating at  the  time  the  Pentateuch  was  given.  They  only  wanted 
to  find  some  slight  reference  to  it  in  the  Pentateuch,  and  were  of 
the  opinion  that  the  belief  in  resurrection  was  known  only  to  a 
limited  number  of  select  men,  but  not  to  the  masses,  from  whom 
it  was  kept  secret,  for  fear  that  they  might  as  well  believe  in 
"familiar  spirits"  and  "wizards"  ("Ob  and  Yaduni"),  or  in  "in- 
quiring of  the  dead."  But  only  after  this  belief  has  been  bor- 
rowed from  the  neighboring  nations  and  has  been  adopted  by  the 
masses,  the  Talmudists  found  it  necessary  to  find  some  source 
for  it  in  the  Pentateuch  in  order  to  strengthen  the  latter,  although 
not  explicitly  stated  therein. 

It  follows  from  all  this  that  at  the  time  the  Mosaic  Law  was 
proclaimed,  that  belief  was  not  only  not  obligatory,  but  on  the 
contrary  every  effort  was  made  to  keep  it  from  the  masses,  and, 


150  APPENDIX  B. 

therefore,  no  promises  were  made  as  to  resurrection,  but  only  as 
to  longevity  and  tranquillity  during  life-time. 

When,  however,  the  founder  of  Christianity  made  this  belief 
one  of  its  dogmas  and  minimized  the  Old  Testament,  the  Tal- 
mudists  made  it  obligatory  to  believe  that  its  source  is  in  the 
Pentateuch.  And  the  Sadducees  who  rejected  this  belief  at  all 
were  considered  as  disbelievers. 

But  we  find  nowhere  that  the  Sadducees  ever  denied  the  im- 
mortality of  the  soul  or  that  they  ever  denied  the  belief  in  retri- 
bution after  death,  for  according  to  all  opinions  the  Sadducees 
were  not  the  disciples  of  Autigonus  of  Socho,  Zaduck  and  Bithus, 
who,  according  to  a  statement  in  Aboth  d' Rabbi  Nathan,  rejected 
the  belief  in  retribution.  The  name  Sadducees,  as  we  have  said 
in  the  beginning  of  this  article,  had  its  origin  from  Zaduck  the 
high  priest  of  David,  according  to  Geiger's  opinion.  Or,  perhaps, 
Holdheim's  opinion  is  the  correct  one,  viz. :  that  in  the  beginning 
they  were  surnamed  "  Zadikim,"  as  Simon  the  high  priest  was 
sumamed  the  "  Zadik.  " 

Neither  do  we  find  anywhere  that  the  Sadducees  repulsed  the 
statement  of  the  Talmudists,  to  wit:  "In  order  that  thy  days 
may  be  prolonged  "  (Deutr.  v.  i6),  that  means  in  the  world  to 
come  which  is  prolonged  (endless),  and  as  the  simple  proof,  if  one 
say  to  his  son:  "go  up  on  the  roof  and  examine  the  bird's  nest, 
and  take  the  young  ones,  and  send  away  the  mother,  in  both  of 
which  (sending  away  the  mother  and  honoring  the  father)  longev- 
ity is  the  promised  compensation  in  the  Pentateuch;  and  the  son 
in  doing  so  fell  and  was  killed;  how  can  the  promise  be  fulfilled.'' 
We  must,  therefore,  say  that  the  promised  longevity  has  reference 
to  life  after  death."  Nor  is  it  anywhere  found  that  the  Saddu- 
cees refuted  the  statement  of  the  Talmudists:  "  That  person 
shall  be  cut  off  "  (Numb.  xv.  31);  that  it  means,  "  he  should  be 
cut  off  from  this  world  as  well  as  from  the  world  to  come." 

The  assertion  of  those  who  consider  themselves  competent  to 
make  it,  that  there  is  no  basis  in  the  Pentateuch  for  the  immor- 
tality of  the  soul,  is  not  correct,  for  besides  the  many  plain  pas- 
sages indicating  that,  the  same  can  also  be  established  from  the 
necessity  of  the  marrying  the  widow  of  the  deceased  childless 
brother,  for  if  the  soul  is  mortal  what  is  the  benefit  of  "raising 
up  the  deceased's  name?"  So,  also,  greatly  err  those  who,  from 
this  very  passage,  draw  a  contrary  conclusion,  i.e.,  by  asserting 
that  because  the  soul  dies  togetlier  with  the  body  the  Pentateuch 
commanded  that  decedent's  name  be  raised  up  if  he  die  childless, 
for  if  the  soul  dies  as  does  the  body,  why  all  that  trouble  of  mar- 


APPENDIX  B.  151 

rying  the  widow,  or  the  ceremony  of  the  "Chalitza,"  and  spitting 
out  before  the  one  who  refuses  to  marry  the  widow  of  his  deceased 
childless  brother,  as  commanded  by  the  Pentateuch?  If  the  soul 
derives  no  benefit  therefrom,  why  all  that?  There  is  no  honor 
in  all  that  either  for  the  dead  or  for  the  living,  and  it  is  very  well 
known  that  this  custom  of  raising  up  the  name  of  the  deceased 
on  his  estates  was  known  and  observed  in  ancient  times,  and  tho 
family  that  did  not  observe  this  custom  incurred  disrespect. 

Thus  far  as  to  the  Pentateuch,  but  as  regards  the  prophets  or 
Hygiogropha  only  a  blind  man  can  fail  to  find  in  them  retribution 
and  immortality  of  the  soul  after  death.  The  whole  book  of 
Isaiah  is  full  of  that,  and  it  says  plainly  (Isa.  Ivi.  4-5):  "For 
thus  saith  the  Lord  concerning  the  eunuchs  (those  who  die 
childless)  I  will  indeed  give  unto  them,  in  my  house  and  within 
my  walls,  a  place  and  a  name  better  than  sons  and  daughters,  an 
eternal  name — they  shall  not  be  cut  off."  And  not  to  mention 
about  the  early  and  the  later  Hygiogropha  (Ps.,  xvi.  10):  "Thou 
will  not  abandon  my  soul  to  the  grave,"  and  also  (ibid,  xxvii.  13): 
"Unless  I  had  believed  to  see  the  goodness  of  the  Lord  in  the 
Land  of  life."  And  it  is  also  explicitly  stated,  (ibid.  xxv.  13): 
"His  soul  shall  abide  in  happiness;  and  Jiis  descendants  shall  in- 
herit the  land."  Now,  how  can  it  enter  the  mind  that  the  Saddu- 
cees,  who,  according  to  Holdheim,  are  the  Karaites,  whose  only 
endeavor  was  to  give  the  whole  Scripture,  not  only  the  Pentateuch, 
the  illiteral  meaning  of  the  words  will  deviate  from  the  literal 
meaning,  and  explain  all  those  passages  as  referring  only  to  this 
earthly  life?  We  can  also  see  from  the  fact  that  the  Sadducees 
were  more  strict  as  to  purification  than  the  Pharisees  in  going  as 
far  as  saying  that  profane  writings  (the  book  of  Homer)  make 
the  hands  unclean,  to  such  an  extent  that  if  they  touch  Terumah 
the  latter  must  not  be  eaten;  that  they  believed  in  immortality 
of  the  soul,  which  they  considered  to  such  an  extent  clean  that  they 
will  not  tolerate  the  least  uncleanliness  in  a  sacred  thing.  And 
how  much  did  the  Sadducees  sacrifice  themselves  in  order  to  pre- 
vent the  enemy  from  defiling  the  sanctuary?  How  much  did  they 
sacrifice  themselves  for  the  sake  of  the  Holy  name  (Dti^nki^l"T'p), 
which  no  one  who  does  not  believe  in  immortality  would 
do?  But  Holdheim  seems  to  advance  a  strange  assertion,  viz.,  that 
the  Sadducees  believed  in  immortality  of  the  soul  and  neverthe- 
less denied  retribution,  which  we  can  by  no  means  understand,  be- 
cause what  is  the  benefit  of  immortality  if  there  is  no  retribution? 
If  all  are  equal  and  alike  after  death,  the  righteous  and  the  wicked, 
the  wise  and  the  fool?      (The  philosophy  of   Aristotle  concedes 


152  APPENDIX  B. 

at  least  that  the  soul  of  the  righteous  unite  with  the  (7l3)^rO'D^) 
after  death,  but  according  to  Holdheim  there  is  absolutely  no 
preference  to  the  human  soul  over  that  of  the  animal).  It  is  true 
that  we  heard  some  few  years  ago  (in  1885)  in  Leipsic,  at  a  meet- 
ing of  spiritualists,  in  company  of  the  late  Dr.  Mandelkern,  a  profes- 
sor, state  in  his  lecture  that  the  spirit  of  a  certain  man  who,  during 
his  lifetime  was  one  of  the  easy-minded,  rested  upon  his  shoulders 
for  about  two  weeks,  and  that  he  was  then  of  the  same  disposition 
as  before  death,  and  from  this  he  drew  the  conclusion  that  the 
soul  remains  the  same  after  death,  in  the  spiritual  world,  as  during 
the  lifetime,  but  we  hardly  believe  Holdheim  ever  entertained 
this  belief,  which  is  contrary  to  common  sense,  and  still  more, 
he  endeavors  to  make  his  beloved  Sadducees  entertain  such  belief. 

Dr.  Geiger's  opinion  that  the  whole  contention  between  the 
Sadducees  and  Pharisees  was  originally  over  political  affairs,  the 
former  struggling  to  have  the  control  over  such  affairs,  because 
of  their  descent  from  prominent  families,  and  the  latter  not  de- 
siring to  submit,  and  from  this  the  contention  extended  to  civil 
and  religious  matters;  the  Pharisees  being  extremely  faithful  to 
their  traditions  saw  in  everything  the  Sadducees  differed  from 
them,  a  denial  in  tradition; — seems  to  be  more  correct,  as  being 
also  supported  by  history.  The  same  theory  is  followed  by  I. 
H.  Weiss  in  his  work  "Dor  Dor  V'dorshow,"  who  proves  con- 
clusively that  the  Pharisees  always  laid  down  their  decisions  in 
direct  opposition  to  that  of  the  Sadducees  in  order  to  prevent 
the  masses  from  joining  the  ranks  of  the  latter.  In  fact,  we  see 
that  the  differences  between  the  two  sects,  mentioned  in  the  Tal- 
mud, were  as  to  minor  things  which  have  very  little  to  do  with 
rehgious  dogmas.  We  also  have  proved  at  the  end  of  Tract  Sab- 
bath of  our  new  edition,  from  page  381  on,  that  all  the  eighteen 
precautionary  measures  adopted  by  the  Pharisees  at  the  attic  of 
Hananiah,  were  directed  against  the  priests  who  mostly  belonged 
to  the  Sadducees. 

We  do  not  mean  to  rebuke  the  Pharisees  for  having  acted  thus, 
for  they  did  so  of  necessity,  because  the  Sadducees  endeavored 
to  transplant  Hellenism  into  the  Hebrew  religion  in  such  a  manner 
that  it  should  not  be  noticed,  and  in  order  to  guard  against  this  they 
opposed  the  decisions  of  the  Sadducees  even  when  the  latter  were 
not  contrary  to  the  true  teachings  of  the  Torah,  for  (Ps.  cxix. 
126):  "  It  is  time  to  act  for  the  Lord:  they  have  broken  thy  law." 

It  is  very  probable  that  because  the  belief  in  resurrection  was 
so  deeply  rooted  among  the  masses,  because  it  is  very  natural 
that  one  should  desire  to  meet  again  his  relatives  alive  after  they 


APPENDIX  B. 


IS3 


had  once  died,  and  the  Sadducees  have  opposed  this  belief  and 
ridiculed  it,  the  Pharisees  assigned  so  much  importance  to  it  and 
endeavored  to  find  some  source  for  it  in  the  Scripture,  in  order  to 
prevent  the  names  from  adhering  to  the  teachings  of  the  Sad- 
ducees and  thereby  preventing  the  transplanting  of  Hellenism 
into  the  Hebrew  faith,  although  in  the  very  beginning  of  its  de- 
velopment this  belief  was  kept  secret  from  the  masses. 

The  result  of  what  has  been  stated  is  that  the  Sadducees 
as  well  as  the  Pharisees,  have  expounded  the  Scripture  according 
to  tradition  and  have  believed  in  the  immortality  of  the  soul  and 
retribution  after  death.  And  the  animosity  of  those  two  sects 
grew  from  the  desire  of  each  of  them  to  have  the  control  over 
political  affairs.  Therefore,  when  the  Pharisees  in  the  end 
gained  the  overhand,  the  first  thing  for  Simeon  b.  Shetah  to  do 
was  to  remove  the  Sadducees  from  the  Sanhedrin,  in  which  he 
was  very  successful.  But  after  the  quarrel  was  carried  on  for 
several  centuries,  and  almost  during  the  whole  time  of  the  ex- 
istence of  the  second  Temple,  and  during  that  time  more  than  once 
the  danger  was  imminent  that  the  teachings  of  the  Pharisees 
should  be  swallowed  up  by  Hellenism,  and  especially  so  during 
the  time  of  Johanan  the  high  priest  and  king,  during  whose  reign 
the  Pharisees  were  executed  by  the  hundreds,  and  many  emi- 
grated to  Egypt  and  Babylonia,  the  animosity  and  hatred  as- 
sumed such  proportions  that  the  name  "Sadducee"  alone  was 
contemptible.  Still  more,  when  after  the  Pharisees  had  already 
been  successful  they  were  compelled  to  have  public  debates  with 
them  in  religious  matters,  for  their  teachings  have  been  deeply 
rooted  among  the  masses  and  could  not  easily  be  rooted  out. 

This  animosity  assumed  still  greater  proportions  when  Chris- 
tianity began  to  develop;  for  the  latter  has  confirmed  many  of 
the  tea:chings  of  the  Sadducees,  although  not  directly  still  indi- 
rectly, and  has  opposed  those  of  the  Pharisees,  although  they 
did  not  differ  to  a  considerable  extent  from  the  latter  in  religious 
matters  and  principles,  the  masses  adhering  to  the  teachings  of 
the  Pharisees,  have  greatly  despised  the  Sadducees,  and  consid- 
ered them  infidels  and  disbelievers  in  retribution  and  immortality 
of  the  soul,  and  in  the  appearing  of  a  personal  Messiah  from  the 
houses  of  David  and  Joseph,  which  belief  has  been  circulating 
among  the  masses  during  the  last  days  of  existence  of  the  second 
Temple,  and  they  endeavored,  with  all  their  might,  to  obliterate 
their  teachings.  Those  few  Sadducees  who  lived  after  the  de- 
struction of  the  second  Temple  gathered  up  all  the  courage  they 
could  and  entered  into  public  debates  with  R.  Johanan  b,  Zakkai, 


154  APPENDIX  B. 

R.  Jose,  etc.,  but  seeing  that  their  hope  was  forlorn,  and  that  they 
W9uld  not  be  able  to  rise  again,  they  gave  up  the  battle  pub- 
licly, although  they  did  not  renounce  their  beliefs,  or  abandon 
their  hatred,  and  tried  to  continue  the  same  against  the  teachings 
of  the  Pharisees  secretly.  At  least,  during  the  second  century 
we  hear  nothing  of  them  publicly. 

Now  we  will  stop  for  a  moment  to  see  who  the  Karaite  sect 
was.  There  is  no  doubt  that  there  existed  a  sect  by  this  name 
in  the  days  of  the  Talmudists,  for  they  are  mentioned  several 
times  in  the  Talmud  under  the  name  "Adherers  to  the  Scripture," 
(N'npD^^^),  and  in  one  place  it  is  plainly  stated  "the  Ka- 
raites added"  (Pesachim,  p.  117;  our  edition,  p.  246,  see  foot 
note  3).  Neither  is  there  any  doubt  that  they  were  not  favored 
by  the  Talmudists,  as  we  find  in  many  places  in  the  Talmud  re- 
marks reflecting  on  them,  as  f.t.:  "They  who  occupy  themselves 
with  the  study  of  Scripture  are  not  to  be  blamed,  but,  on  the 
other  hand,  not  to  be  praised  "  (Baba  Metzia,  79),  and  in  Hagiga, 
it  states  plainly;  Rabb  said:  "If  a  man  goes  out  from  the  study 
of  the  Mishna  to  read  the  verses  of  the  Bible,  this  man  can  have 
no  more  peace."  And  there  is  no  doubt  that  many  similar  re- 
marks found  in  the  Talmud  have  reference  to  this  sect.  But  we 
can  not,  with  exactness,  fix  the  time  when  and  to  what  extent 
this  sect  openly  declared  against  the  teachings  of  the  Talmudists. 
However,  we  do  not  hesitate  for  one  moment  to  state  that  during 
all  that  time  this  sect  has  brooded  an  intense  hatred  to  every  Is- 
raelite who  has  not  followed  them,  although  at  times  they  were 
compelled  to  conceal  their  hatred. 

One  penetrating  glance  into  the  history  of  the  Samaritans  and 
into  that  of  the  Karaites ;  one  penetrating  glance  into  the  literature 
of  the  former  and  into  that  of  the  latter;  the  curses  pronounced 
by  both  of  those  sects  against  the  followers  of  the  Rabbanism; 
the  beliefs  and  principles  common  to  the  religion  of  both  (although 
differing  slightly  ceremonially),  will  suffice  to  induce  one  to  agree 
with  us  that  the  Karaites,  whose  sect  was  established  in  the  days 
of  Anan,  and  a  few  of  whom  are  living  in  our  own  time,  have  not 
only  borrowed  from  the  Samaritans  their  teachings,  but  that  the 
Karaites  are  the  former  Samaritans  and  that  even  up  to  date 
they  have  changed  slightly  only  in  their  outward  appearance  and 
in  name,  but  not  intrinsically. 

From  the  whole  sect  we  will  pick  out  only  Anan,  who  descended 
from  the  family  of  the  Exilarch,  who  came  from  the  house  of 
David  (and  perhaps  was  his  mother  or  grandmother  of  Samaritan 
descent),  and  who,  from  jealously  having    scorned  and  despised 


APPENDIX  B.  155 

the  traditional  teachings,  had  gathered  the  remainder  of  the  Sa- 
maritans, who  had  long  ago  changed  their  name  and  tendency,  had 
become  their  chief  to  fight  their  battles  and  to  separate  completely 
from  the  house  of  Israel,  for  he  could  afford  doing  so,  being  a  de- 
scendant from  a  prominent  family.  But  we  do  not  in  the  least 
intimate  that  Anan  founded  a  new  sect  with  new  principles. 

This,  our  present  view,  is  not  unfounded,  but  is  based  on  his- 
torical facts,  for  we  do  not  find  anywhere  in  history  any  such 
intense,  unchangeable,  everlasting  and  unfounded  hatred  as  that 
of  the  Samaritans  and  Karaites  toward  the  house  of  Israel. 

Whenever  we  find  in  history  that  any  ill-feelings  or  hatred 
existed  between  two  nations  it  is  easy  to  find  the  reason  for  such 
feelings  or  hatred;  it  was  either  the  craving  for  subjugation  of 
foreign  countries,  or  the  desire  to  reign  supreme  over  others,  or, 
in  very  ancient  times  also  the  desire  to  prove  the  supremacy  of 
one  nation's  idols  over  those  of  the  other,  and  many  other  rea- 
sons, which  provoked  one  nation  to  go  to  war  with  another  and 
to  take  vengeance  of  one  another.  But  we  find  no  such  reason 
for  the  hatred  of  the  Samaritans  toward  the  house  of  Israel,  yet 
when  the  latter  returned  from  Babylonia  and  intended  to  build 
the  Temple,  no  plausible  reason  can  be  found  for  the  endeavor- 
ing of  the  Samaritans  to  mislead  the  Israelites  whenever  they  tried 
to  establish  the  new  moon.  (See  Rosh  Hashana,  Chap.  II.,  our 
Hebrew  edition,  p.  25;  EngHsh,  p.  38.)  Neither  can  there  be  as- 
signed a  reason  for  the  custom  of  the  Samaritans  to  pronounce 
curses  over  Ezra  the  Scribe,  at  the  time  of  the  opening  of  the  ark 
of  scrolls  every  Sabbath,  which  prevails  up  to  date.  (See  our  "The 
Pentateuch,  its  Character,"  etc.,  as  well  as  for  many  other  things 
which  the  reader  may  find  in  the  Talmud  and  Apokrypha,  and  in 
Graetz's  History  of  the  Jews,  which,  if  quoted  here  would  occupy  a 
full  volume.)  In  a  word,  there  can  be  found  no  substantial  reason 
or  ground  for  these  things,  except  that  they  blindly  hated  the 
house  of  Israel.  Neither  do  we  find  any  reason  for  the  slandering 
and  reviUng  by  the  Karaites  of  the  Rabbanism  in  general,  and  of 
Rabh  Saadiah  Gaon  in  particular,  nor  for  all  the  false  accusa- 
tions and  malicious  charges  and  denunciations  against  the  Rab- 
banism contained  in  the  extensive  literature  of  the  Karaites. 

History  shows  us  that  nations  who  hated  each  other  to  the 
extreme  have  in  course  of  time  laid  the  weapons  aside  and  made 
up.  History  records  numerous  instances,  that  sects  between  whom 
differences  existed,  and  which  even  reached  such  a  degree  that  they 
resulted  in  actual  fight,  have  in  course  of  time  become  reconciled 
and  associated  with  each  other,  and  intermarried,  and  the  former 


156  APPENDIX   B. 

hatred  and  quarrels  were  wholly  forgotten.  We  will  not  cite  as 
an  example  the  Beth  Shammai  and  the  Beth  Hillel,  who,  although 
widely  differing  from  each  other  in  their  opinions,  still  intermarried, 
as  found  in  the  Talmud;  but  even  the  Sadducees  and  the  Phari- 
sees, did  they  there  decline  to  eat  and  drink  with  each  other,  or  inter- 
marry? We  do  not  find  that  anywhere.*  The  Samaritans,  how- 
ever, and  Karaites  are  singular  instances  in  this  respect  in  history. 
Although  most  of  them  have  already  intermingled  with  other  na- 
tions, not  a  single  instance  can  be  pointed  out  that  they  have 
intermarried  with  an  Israelite  or  have  partaken  of  his  food  or 
drink. 

The  toleration  of  the  Pharisees  and  of  their  teachings  is  well 
known.  The  disciples  of  the  Beth  Hillel  have  done  all  that  lay 
in  their  power  to  bring  them  into  the  house  of  Israel:  they  cred- 
ited them  in  regard  to  purification;  they  permitted  them  to  be 
counted  in  the  number  of  three  for  the  benediction  over  the  meal 
(P^i]),  and  in  the  number  of  ten  for  prayer  in  the  prayer  house 
(nlSi^y  PJD);  ^^^  ^^  ia.ct,  wanted  to  consider  them  as  Is- 
raelites for  all  purposes,  but  their  animosity  and  trickery  increased 
to  such  an  extent  that  they  could  no  more  be  tolerated,  and  there- 
fore, the  leaders  of  Israel  were  compelled  to  regard  them  in  all 
respects  as  idolaters,  and  prohibited  their  bread,  wine,  and  oil. 
Exactly  the  same  thing  happened  with  the  Karaites  whom  the 
Rabbanism  endeavored,  with  all  their  might,  to  draw  near  them 
and  debate  with  them,  until  they  convinced  themselves  that  their 
hatred  toward  Israel  is  so  great  that  they  said  "M"^^  D'^I^'^pH 
D/I^y  Vr\^r\}2"  (the  rents  will  never  be  sewed  together),  "the  Ka- 
raites will  never  make  up  with  us,"  and  they  are  up  to  date  regarded 
as  idolators. 

We  know  well  that  we  are  too  brief  in  this  article  and  that  we 
ought  to  adduce  at  length  all  the  facts  to  prove  that  all  that  the 
Samaritans  and  Karaites  have  done  unto  Israel  was  not  to  derive 
any  benefit  therefrom,  or  with  a  view  of  subduing  them,  for  they 

*  An  example  may  be  given  of  the  last  century  when  a  new  sect  {Chasidim)  es- 
tablished themselves.  The  greatest  authority,  at  least  in  Russia  and  Poland,  Eliah 
Wilna,  called  the  "  Wilner  Gaon"  in  conjunction  with  all  the  Rabbis,  excommuni- 
cated the  whole  sect,  prohibited  their  eatings  and  beverages  and  intermarriage  with 
them.  Moreover  he  allowed  any  one  to  denounce  the  new  sect,  and  their  rabbis  were 
imprisoned  by  the  government.  But  what  was  the  end  ?  Nothing  at  all.  All  the 
excommunications,  prohibitions,  prosecutions,  etc.,  were  abolished,  without  even 
the  result  of  a  meeting,  and  as  soon  as  the  quarrel  was  over,  not  one  of  either 
party  hesitated  to  mingle  with  the  opposite  sect.  All  are  called  Israel,  all  are 
Israelites,  and  at  the  present  time  nobody  gives  any  attention  to  all  that  happened 
then. 


APPENDIX  B.  157 

well  knew  that  this  was  an  impossibility,  but  only  out  of  blind 
hatred  deeply  rooted  in  them,  which  descends  from  generation  to 
generation.  We  know  this  very  well,  but  we  can  not  enter  here 
into  such  details,  as  it  would  exceed  the  limits  of  an  article,  and 
would  comprise  a  whole  book  in  itself.  We,  therefore,  rely  upon 
the  intelligence  and  knowledge  of  the  reader  that  he  will  know 
where  to  find  those  if  needed. 

Even  in  our  own  times,  when  the  Karaites  number  only  a  few 
thousands,  which  accounts  for  their  enjoying  equal  rights  with  the 
natives,  since  Emperor  Nicholas  of  Russia,  they  make  no  secret 
of  their  hatred  toward  Israel.  When  the  anti-Jewish  disorders 
broke  out  in  Russia  some  few  years  ago,  and  many  of  our  co- 
religionists were  exiled  from  the  Middle  States  of  the  Russian 
Empire,  the  latter  have  petitioned  the  Russian  Government  to 
be  permitted  to  embrace  Karaitism.  The  Minister  of  the  In- 
terior has  expressed  his  willingness  to  grant  their  petition  if  the 
Karaites  will  consent  to  receive  them  into  their  midst,  and  di- 
rected an  inquiry  to  this  effect  to  their  Hacham  in  Odessa,  but 
the  latter  answered  that  there  is  no  desire  on  the  part  of  the 
Karaites  to  receive  the  Jews  as  their  co-religionists. 

These  facts  need  hardly  any  comment;  they  speak  for  them- 
selves. In  fact,  during  all  the  long  period  since  the  year  760,  it  has 
not  as  yet  happened  that  even  a  few  individual  Karaites  should 
intermarry  with  our  co-religionists,  or  should  in  any  way  associate 
with  us.  (Even  in  business  affairs  they  do  it  only  with  great 
reluctance  and  very  seldom.)  Is  there  any  stronger  proof  neces- 
sary of  this  race-hatred?  No  other  race  or  nation,  no  matter  how 
great  their  hatred  may  be,  will  ever  decline  to  receive  into  their 
midst  a  Jew,  if  he  only  wishes  to  gain  their  faith,  and  will  never 
refuse  to  associate  with  him;  and  the  masses,  as  well  as  the  in- 
telligent classes,  have  always  been  favorably  inclined  toward 
the  Jews.  But  this  hatred  of  the  Karaites  has  no  equal  among 
other  nations  in  any  generation. 

As  the  Samaritans  have  forged  and  falsified  the  Pentateuch, 
as  is  now  well  established,  so  also  did  the  Karaites  forge  and  falsify 
the  Talmud.  And  we  hereby  reproach  the  writers  of  the  history  of 
the  Karaites,  who  without  much  deliberations  wrote;  For  Saadiah 
the  Gaon,  when  king,  unable  to  assign  any  good  reason  for  a  state- 
ment found  in  the  Talmud  ( Jerushalmi) ,  that  the  Beth  Shammai 
have  killed  some  of  the  Beth  Hillel,  and  vice  versa,  has  denied  the 
existence  of  such  a  statement  at  all;  and  Sahl,  the  son  of  Matzliah, 
his  opponent,  in  order  to  prove  to  the  world  the  delinquency  of 
R.  Saadiah,  has  descended  from  Palestine  to  Babylonia  with  the 


158  APPENDIX  B. 

Jerusalem  Talmud  in  his  hand!  And  they  did  not  conceive  that 
Sahl  himself  has  forged  the  manuscript  of  the  Talmud  by  writing  in 
this  statement,  and  he  was  not  the  first  one  to  do  so,  but  was  prob- 
ably preceded  by  others,  as  we  have  remarked  in  the  introduction 
to  our  edition  of  Rosh  Hoshana.  In  fact,  we  are  surprised  at  those 
who  are  handling  the  Karaite  literature  that  they  have  not  per- 
ceived it.  Why  should  more  evidence  be  given  to  Sahl  the  forger, 
than  to  Rabh  Saadiah,  who  states  positively  that  such  a  state- 
ment did  not  exist  in  the  Talmud  ?  Why  should  we  not  belive  R. 
Saadiah  that  in  his  manuscript  such  a  statement  was  not  in  exist- 
ence? (To  our  regret  this  statement  was  added  to,  and  remains 
in  the  Talmud  through  the  fault  of  the  printers.)  Especially  so 
that  even  now  in  our  own  days  the  Karaites  continue  to  forge  and 
falsify,  as  proved  by  many  modem  scholars  at  the  head  of  which 
is  Abraham  Harkawy,  by  exposing  the  falsifications  of  Abraham 
Firkowitz,  the  Karaite  Hacham,  in  all  his  writings. 

The  result  of  all  that  stated  is  that  from  the  similarity  of  action, 
in  all  details,  of  the  Karaites  and  Samaritans  we  can  logically 
arrive  at  the  conclusion  that  the  Karaites  were  doing  nothing  new, 
but  only  stepping  in  the  shoes  of  their  ancestors,  the  Samaritans, 
who  they  were,  only  under  a  different  name,  and  being  so  they  never 
descended  from  Israel.  And  all  that  Anan  did  was  to  gather  the 
scattered  Samaritans  and  encourage  them  to  continue  their  fight 
against  Israel,  which  has  been  hitherto  conducted  by  them  secretly, 
openly  and  publicly  and  with  more  vigor  and  animosity. 

And  if  we  will  examine  with  a  critical  eye  the  literature  of  the 
Karaites  we  will  easily  see  that  they  are  none  others  than  the  Sama- 
ritans. And  in  vain  has  Dr.  Holdheim  held  up  as  a  striking  proof 
the  "laws  of  divorce,"  saying  that  such  were  the  opinions  of  the 
Sadducees,  and  that  the  Karaites  who  were  none  else  but  the  Sad- 
ducees  clung  to  their  old  laws.  No  divorce  was  granted  under  the 
teaching  of  the  Samaritans,  unless  on  the  ground  of  adultery.  And 
as  to  this  also  the  Talmud  bears  testimony  in  stating  (as  quoted 
above),  "The  Beth  Shammai  are  as  the  Kuthaiz,  i.e.,  the  Beth 
Shammai  who  prohibited  a  divorce  unless  on  the  ground  of 
adultery,  agree  with  the  Samaritans  who  taught  the  same  thing, 
and  so  also  are  the  laws  of  the  Karaites  (even  in  regard  to  this 
has  Dr.  Holdheim  blamed  the  teachings  of  the  Pharisees  without 
any  foundation,  for  formerly  even  the  Pharisees  did  not  allow  a 
divorce  unless  on  the  above-stated  grounds,  and  all  the  leniency 
as  to  divorce  which  was  afterwards  decreed  by  the  Beth  Hillel,  of 
whom  R.  Aqiba  was  one,  was  only  introduced  because  the  exigencies 
of  the  time  required  it,  for  it  was  at  the  time  the  New  Testament 


APPENDIX  B.  159 

began  to  gain  strength  and  become  popular,  which  declared  every- 
one who  married  a  divorced  woman  to  be  an  adulterer;  as  proved 
by  I.  H.  Weiss  in  his  work,  and  all  other  laws  of  the  Karaites  "). 
The  strict  observance  of  the  Sabbath,  etc,  is  nothing  else  but  the 
laws  of  the  Samaritans,  and  the  slight  difference  in  the  ceremonies 
of  these  two  sects  is  only  because  the  former  lived  much  later  than 
the  latter,  and  had  to  struggle  with  other  sects  who  were  their 
superiors,  and  to  submit  to  them,  and  therefore  many  ceremonies 
were  forgotten  altogether.  As  to  principles  and  dogmas,  we  have 
never  heard  that  the  Samaritans  have  ever  rejected  the  belief  in 
resurrection  or  in  the  world  to  come.  On  the  contrary,  as  the  belief 
in  resurrection  has  circulated  among  all  nations,  and  as  the  Samari- 
tans have  produced  no  great  and  learned  men,  and  being  widely 
separated  from  Israel,  it  is  very  natural  that  they  did  believe  in 
resurrection  as  did  their  descendants  the  Karaites. 

Another  proof  can  be  adduced  that  the  Karaites  are  the  de- 
scendants of  the  Samaritans;  namely,  that  the  Karaites  mourn 
much  more  over  the  destruction  of  the  Temple  (and  some  of  their 
Hachams  have  even  adapted  the  name  "Mourner  "  or  "Mourners "), 
than  we  do,  because  as  the  Samaritans  they  mourn  over  the  loss 
of  their  temple  on  the  Mount  Gerisim  which  was  destroyed  by  Janai, 
and  continue  to  curse  him  up  to  date  in  their  prayers. 

We  could  adduce  numerous  other  proofs  taken  from  both  the 
extensive  literature  of  the  Karaites  and  the  inextensive  literature 
of  the  Samaritans,  to  show  that  we  did  not  in  the  least  exaggerate  our 
opinion  as  to  the  origin  of  the  Karaites,  but  this  article  has  taken 
up  much  more  space  than  we  expected  and  we  are  unable  to  give 
them  here  to  the  reader. 

Before  closing  this  article  we  find  it  our  duty  to  answer  the 
gentleman  who  put  the  question  to  us:  "What  are  the  reformers 
of  our  times,  if  not  Karaites?" 

A  careful  examination  of  the  literature  of  the  reformers  in  Eu- 
rope, as  Holdheim,  Geiger,  Ritter,  etc. ;  of  the  prayer  books  of  the 
reformers  in  this  country,  and  of  the  sermons  of  their  preachers  all 
over  the  world,  we  will  at  once  recognize  in  them  the  early  Sad- 
ducees,  with  all  their  particularities.  They  (generally,  not  consid- 
ering here  and  there  an  exception)  believe  in  immortality  of  the 
soul,  in  retribution  after  death  and  in  many  Talmudical  traditions, 
as  can  be  shown  by  the  fact  that  they  obser\^e  the  holidays  as  es- 
tablished by  the  Talmudists ;  but  they  do  not  believe  in  resurrec- 
tion, neither  in  the  coming  of  a  personal  Messiah,  and  do  not  recog- 
nize the  Talmud  as  final  authority  in  all  matters;  and  self-under- 
stood those  rules  and  regulations  established  subsequent  to  the 


i6o  APPENDIX   B. 

close  of  the  Talmud  but  in  its  spirit,  the  same  thing  did  the  former 
Sadducces 

But  as  our  present  reformers  are  descendants  of  the  Pharisees, 
and  the  Sadducees  being  no  more  in  existence,  therefore  they  also 
have  in  many  things  adopted  a  new  form,  and  recognize  the  teach- 
ings of  the  Pharisees  (as  for  instance  the  observance  of  the  sixth 
day  of  Sivan  as  Pentecost)  as  indisputable  iaws.  But  we  can  by 
no  means  accuse  the  reformers  in  not  believing  in  tradition  gen- 
erally, as  we  cannot  well  accuse  of  that  the  former  Sadducees. 
(Even  those  reformers  who  have  changed  the  Sabbath,  for  even 
this  can  be  explained  in  accordance  with  the  general  rule  of  the 
Talmud  which  sanctifies  the  seventh  day,  but  not  the  Sabbath  itself, 
and  for  this  reason  the  Talmud  decreed  that  in  case  one  forgets 
which  day  is  the  Sabbath,  he  shall  count  six  days  and  observe  the 
seventh  as  Sabbath,  see  our  article  in  the  Deborah,  1894.)  Should 
the  reader  put  the  question  to  us  whether  the  reformers  are  not 
to  be  charged  with  transplanting  Christianity  into  Judaism,  and 
whether  there  is  no  danger  that  in  course  of  time  Christianity  will 
swallow  up  Judadsm  altogether,  as  the  Unitarism  of  our  own  days, 
as  such  danger  has  already  threatened  Judaism  during  the  early 
Sadducees,  we  will  say  that  this  question  requires  a  deliberate  an- 
swer, and  cannot  be  answered  by  "yes"  or  "no"  offhand. 

We  can  only  state  that  we  have  devoted  much  of  our  attention 
to  this  question,  and  with  a  penetrating  eye  have  followed  the  work 
of  the  reformers  of  the  School  of  Holdheim,  Ritter  and  their  com- 
panions, in  Berlin,  of  the  school  of  Isaac  Wise  in  Cincinnati,  and  of 
the  teaching  of  Emil  G.  Hirch  in  Chicago,  and  having  collected  con- 
siderable data  of  their  past,  and  having  bestowed  much  deliberation 
upon  their  future,  we  consider  ourselves  competent  to  give  our 
opinion  about  this  matter.  In  fact  we  have  prepared  a  long  article 
dealing  specially  with  the  following  questions:  (i)  Does  the  He- 
brew religion  require  any  reforms?  (2)  If  it  does,  what  are  they 
and  on  what  basis  can  we  introduce  them?  (3)  What  are  the  re- 
reforms  introduced  by  the  conservative  reformers,  and  what  are 
those  of  the  radical  reformers?  (4)  What  benefit  resulted  from 
these  reforms  in  general  and  in  particular?  (5)  The  resiilt  of  the 
reforms  of  Cincinnati  and  of  those  of  Hirch,  and  (6)  What  is  the 
meaning  of  the  name  "  Orthodox,"  and  to  whom  shall  it  be  applied? 
This  article  we  are  willing  to  submit  to  the  readers  (after  accom- 
plishing our  task  of  the  translation)  if  desired. 


END   OF  VOLUME   I. 


Pijinceton   Theological   Seminary   Libraries 


1    1012   01251    5856 


