tihrary  of  trhe  trheolojical  ^tminavy 

PRINCETON  •  NEW  JERSEY 


PRESENTED  BY 

Joiin  Stuart   Conning,   D.D, 

BM  500  .R6  1918  v. 13-14 
Talmud. 

New  edition  of  the 
Babylonian  Talmud 


NEW    EDITION 


V  ■■' 


BABYLONIAN  TALMUD 


©riGfnal  Xlejt,  lEMteb,  (rorrecte^,  jformulatet),  an& 
Uranslateb  into  Bnalisb 


MICHAEL  L.  RODKINSON 


SECTION   JURISPRUDENCE    (DAMAGES) 


TRACT  BABA  BATHRA 
(LAST   GATE,  PART  II.) 


Volume  VI.  (XIV.) 


Boston 

THE  TALMUD  SOCIETY 

1918 


EXPLANATORY   REMARKS. 

In  our  translation  we  adopted  these  principles: 

1.  Tenan  of  the  original — We  have  learned  In  a  Mishna;  Tania  Wa  luTt 
learned  in  a  Boraitha;  Itemar — It  was  taught. 

2.  Questions  are  indicated  by  the  interrogation  point,  and  are  immediatelf 
followed  by  the  answers,  without  being  so  marked. 

3.  When  in  the  original  there  occur  two  statements  separated  by  the  phrase, 
Lishna  achrena  or  Wa'ibayith  Aetna  ox Ikha  a'awrj  (literally,  "otherwise  interpreted"), 
we  translate  only  the  second. 

4.  As  the  pages  of  the  original  are  indicated  in  our  new  Hebrew  edition,  U  is  not 
deemed  necessary  to  mark  them  in  the  English  edition,  this  being  only  a  translation 
from  the  latter. 

5.  Words  or  passages  enclosed  in  round  parentheses  (  )  denote  the  explanation 
rendered  by  Rashi  to  the  foregoing  sentence  or  word.  Square  parentheses  [  ]  contain 
commentaries  by  authorities  of  the  last  period  of  construction  of  the  Uemara. 


COI^RIGHT,   1903,  BV 

MICHAEI,  L.  RODKINSON. 


Copyright  1916,  by 
NEW  TALMUD  PUBLISHING  SOCIETY 


TO  THE  REVEREND  GENTLEMEN 

HERRN  GEHEIMER  REGIERUNGSRATH 

MORITZ    LAZARUS,    Ph.D.,    D.D. 

UNIVERSITY    PROFESSOR 
AND 

MoNS.   ZADOC    KAHANA 

GRAND    RABBIN 
T>V    CONSISTOIRE    CENTRAL    DES    ISRAISlITES    DE    FRANCF 

WHOSE    NAMES   ARE    FAMOUS 

IN   THE    SCHOLARLY    WORLD    ALL    OVER    THE   GLOBE 

THIS   FOURTEENTH    VOLUME 

IS    MOST    SINCERELY   INSCRIBED    BY    THEIR    ADMIRER    AND 

PERSONAL   FRIEND 

MICHAEL  L.  RODKINSON 


New  York,  Eve  of  Passover,  566a  (April  awt,  1909) 


CONTENTS. 

(PART   11.) 


CHAPTER  VI. 

PAGB 

Rules  and  Regulations  concerning  the   Sale   of   Seeds 
WHICH  Become  Spoiled,  the  Quantity  of  Dust  which 

MAY     or    may     not     BE     ACCEPTED     IN     THE    MEASURES    OF 

Grain  and  Fruit,  and  Wine  which  Becomes  Sour 
AFTER  Sale  before  Delivery. — Concerning  Contrac- 
tors FOR  Houses  and  Stables,  Wells  and  Gardens, 
situated  in  Neighbors'  Properties  or  Public  Tho- 
roughfares IN  Private  Ground,  and  concerning 
Graves  and  Caves  for  Burying 215 


CHAPTER   VII. 

Rules  and  Regulations  concerning  Rocks  and  Pits  in 
Ground  Sold  ;  the  Quantities  of  Greater  or  Less 
Measure  which  may  or  may  not  Void  a  Sale  of 
Fields,  Villages,  Etc 231 


CHAPTER    VIII. 

Rules  and  Regulations  concerning  Bequests  to  and 
Inheritance  by  Near  and  Distant  Relatives,  Male 
and  Female  Slaves  and  their  Descendants,  First- 
born and  Husbands.  One  may  or  may  not  Wish  to 
Bequeath  his  Estate  to  Strangers  when  he  has 
Children.  Which  Wills  must  be  Considered  and 
which  Wills  must  not.  The  Dividing  of  an  Inheri- 
tance BETWEEN  Grown-up  and  Minor  Children,  Male 
and  Female 241 

T 


vi  CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER   IX. 

PAGE 

Rules  and  Regulations  concerning  the  Support  of 
Unmarried  Daughters  after  the  Death  of  their 
Father,  if  among  the  Children  were  an  Hermaph- 
rodite   OR    AN     AnDROGYN.        MaY     OR     MAY      NOT      OnE 

Bequeath  his  Estate  to  Strangers  if  he  has  Chil- 
dren ?  Does  the  Second  Will  Abolish  the  First  ? 
If  a  Sick  Person  Recovers  after  Making  a  Gift 
while  Sick,  may  he  Retract  or  not  ?  If  Sudden 
Death  Occur  to  Many  Persons,  and  it  is  not  Known 
WHO  Died  First,  and  each  of  the  Heirs  Claims  for 
HIS  Benefit ...     312 

CHAPTER   X. 

How  Deeds  should  be  Written  and  where  the  Witnesses 
SHOULD  Sign.  Concerning  Erasures  of  Some  Words 
in  Deeds.  In  which  Cases  both  Parties  must  be 
Present  at  the  Writing  of  the  Deeds,  and  in  which 
ONE  OF  them  Suffices.  Concerning  a  Deposited  Deed 
WHICH  was  Paid  in  Part.  How  shall  the  Court  Ai- 
prove  an  Erased  Document  ?  Property  for  Private 
Use  which  was  Left  to  Poor  and  Rich  Brothers     .     358 


SYNOPSIS   OF  SUBJECTS 

OP 

TRACT  BABA  BATHRA  (LAST  GATE), 

(PART  II.) 


CHAPTER   VI. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO   VIII.  If  one  sold  fruit  and  it  did  not  sprout,  or  an  ox 

and  thereafter  it  was  found  a  goring  one.  May  the  trouble  of  slaughtering 
and  selling  the  meat  be  taken  into  consideration  ?  If  an  ox  was  found  killed 
at  the  side  of  another  pasturing  one.  Between  majority  and  hazakah, 
which  should  be  preferred  (see  footnote  p.  217) .?  All  hold  the  theory  of 
majority.  If  one  delivered  wheat  for  grinding  to  fine  meal,  but  the  miller 
did  not  properly  grind  it ;  or  if  meal  were  delivered  to  a  baker  and  he  did 
not  bake  it  properly.  If  one  buys  fruit,  he  has  to  accept  a  quarter  of  a  kabh 
of  dust  on  a  saah.  If  he  sold  a  cellar  of  wine,  he  must  accept  ten  harsh 
barrels  on  each  hundred.  If  wheat,  a  quarter  of  a  kabh  of  peas  ;  if  barley, 
a  quarter  of  chaff;  if  lentils,  of  dust.  If  the  buyer  has  found  more  than  the 
above  prescribed  quantity.  The  difference  between  a  cellar  and  M/j  cellar, 
and  also  if  for  keeping  was  added.  May  or  may  not  wine  which  is  sold  in 
retail  stores  be  considered  products  of  the  vine  ?  If  one  sells  wine,  and  it 
turns  sour.  Which  wine  is  considered  an  old  one.  If  one  is  proud,  he  is 
not  tolerated  even  by  his  family.  A  commoner  who  disguises  himself  in  the 
garment  of  a  scholar  cannot  enter  into  the  habitation  of  the  Holy  One,  etc. 
If  one  sells,  or  a  contractor  undertakes  to  build,  a  wedding  or  a  widow 
house.  A  groom  who  resides  in  the  house  of  his  father-in-law  is  lighter 
than  bran,  and  still  lighter  is  an  invited  guest  who  brings  with  him  an 
uninvited  one,  and  still  lighter  is  he  who  answers  before  hearing  the 
question.  If  one  wishes  to  build  a  stable.  If  one  possesses  a  well,  situated 
on  the  other  side  of  his  neighbor's  house,  or  a  garden  inside  of  his  neigh- 
bor's. If  there  was  a  public  thoroughfare  through  one's  field,  etc.  If  one 
sells  a  place  for  digging  a  grave,  or  an  undertaker  makes  a  place  for  one, 
the  inside  of  the  cave  must  be  four  by  six,  etc.,    ....        215-230 

CHAPTER   VII. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  VI.  I  sell  you  earth  of  the  size  whereon  one  kur  can 
be  sown,  etc.,  or  measured  with  a  line.  In  case  the  buyer  has  to  make 
return,  it  shall  be  in  money.     If  the  seller  said  "the  size  of  a  kur,"  without 


xiv  SYNOPSIS   OF    SUBJECTS. 

any  addition,  how  is  the  law  ?  "I  sell  you  the  estate,"  with  a  measure- 
ment a  trifle  more  or  less;  or,  "this  estate  .  .  .  with  its  marks  and 
boundaries."  If  two  versions  of  the  seller  contradict  each  other,  which  is  to 
be  considered  ?  The  difference  in  opinion  of  the  Amoraim  in  the  explanation 
of  Mishna  IV.  R.  Papa  bought  an  estate  said  to  be  twenty  saahs — after  it 
was  measured  it  was  found  only  fifteen.  To  two  brothers  who  had  divided 
their  inheritance  came  a  third  brother  (of  whose  existence  they  were  not 
previously  aware).  If  brothers  divided  their  inheritance,  and  a  creditor  of 
their  father  came  and  took  away  the  share  of  one  of  them.  If  the  members 
ot  the  court  differ  in  the  amount,  upon  appraisement  brought  before  them. 
"  I  sell  you  the  half  of  the  field  "  ;  "  The  southern  half  of  this  field, "etc. — the 
seller  has  to  give  space  for  a  partition,  etc.,         ....        231-240 

CHAPTER   VIII. 

MlSHNA  /.  There  are  those  who  bequeath,  and  also  inherit ;  others  who 
inherit  but  do  not  bequeath  ;  and  also  those  who  neither  bequeath  nor 
inherit.  The  passage  [Num.  xxvii.  8]  in  the  Scripture  does  not  correspond 
with  all  that  is  taught  above.  Who  were  the  grandfathers  of  Pinchos  ben 
Elazar  on  his  mother's  side.  If  one  is  about  to  marry,  it  is  advisable  for  him 
to  investigate  the  character  of  the  bride's  brothers.  It  is  better  for  one  to 
hire  himself  to  Abhada  Zarah  (idolatry)  than  to  rely  upon  people  that  shall 
support  him.  Abhada  Zarah  means  "  idolatry."  Literally,  however,  it  is 
"a  strange  service."  Is  the  tribe  of  the  mother's  side  equal  to  the  tribe  of 
the  father's  side  ?  What  happened  to  Janai  and  Jehudah  the  second  when 
they  came  together  ?  The  husband  from  his  wife.  Whence  is  this  deduced  ? 
Whence  came  Pinchos  ben  Elazar  to  have  a  mountain  which  his  father  did 
not  possess?  Whence  is  it  deduced  that  the  husband  does  not  inherit  the 
estate  to  which  his  wife  during  her  life  is  only  heir  apparent  ?  In  the  case  of 
a  gift  with  the  ceremony  of  a  sudarium,  whether  healthy  or  sick,  what  time 
may  be  given  him  to  retract, 241-255 

MiSHNAS  //.  TO  IV.  The  order  of  inheritance  is  thus,  etc.  If  one 
decides  that  a  daughter  shall  inherit,  when  there  is  a  daughter  of  a  son,  even 
if  he  were  a  prince  in  Israel,  he  must  not  be  listened  to.  What  happened  to 
Rabban  Johanan  with  the  Sadducean?  "The  daughters  of  Z'lophchod 
have  inherited,"  etc.  The  land  of  Israel  was  divided  among  the  ascendants 
from  Egypt,  and  not  among  their  children.  Joshua  and  Caleb  inherited  the 
shares  of  the  spies.  Whence  is  this  deduced?  May  or  may  not  a  disciple 
be  honored  in  the  presence  of  his  master  ?  Why  is  the  order  in  mentioning 
the  daughters  of  Z'lophchod  different  in  the  Scripture  ?  If  a  woman 
marries  at  less  than  twenty  years  of  age,  she  bears  children  until  sixty  ;  but 
when  she  marries  after  forty,  she  does  not  then  bear  children.  There  were 
seven  men  who  encompassed  the  whole  world  since  its  creation  until  now, 
etc.  How  was  the  land  of  Israel  divided — into  twelve  parts,  or  among  the 
people  severally  ?  The  land  of  Israel  will  be  divided  among  thirteen  tribes. 
A  son  and  a  daughter  are  equal  concerning  inheritance,  etc.  How  shall 
the  double  share  of  the  first-born  be  counted — double  as  to  each  brother  or 
as  to  the  whole  estate.  What  is  the  reason  that  Jacob  took  away  the  privi- 
lege of  the  first-born  from  Reuben  and  gave  it  to  Joseph  ?  Jacob's  children, 
who  came  to  Egypt,  in  sum  you  find  seventy  ;  however,  if  you  will  number 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  xv 

them  in  detail,  you  will  find  'only  sixty-nine.  In  the  case  of  inheritance  of 
a  promissory  note,  the  first-born  took  a  double  share,  etc.  A  first-born  does 
not  take  a  double  share  in  a  loan.  The  Palestinians,  however,  say  he  does. 
What  is  to  be  done  with  an  estate  bequeathed  for  life  only,  which  the  in- 
heritor has  sold  ?  A  first-born  does  not  inherit  property  to  come  in  the 
hiture,  and  the  same  is  the  case  with  a  husband.  If  the  first-born  protests 
when  his  brothers  come  to  improve  the  estate  left  by  their  father,       255-271 

MiSHNAS  V.  TO  V//.  A  will  which  is  against  the  law  of  the  Scripture 
must  not  be  listened  to  ;  however,  if  it  is  as  a  gift,  it  may.  "  My  son  is  my 
first-born,"  he  takes  a  double  share  ;  "My  son  is  a  first-born,"  he  does  not. 
"  Go  to  Sh'kh'at  my  son,  who  is  a  first-born,  whose  spittle  cures  eyes."  If 
two  wives  of  one  have  born  two  sons  in  a  secret  place  which  was  dark,  and 
it  is  not  known  who  was  born  first,  they  may  write  a  power  of  attorney  each 
to  the  other,  etc.  If  one  was  known  to  the  people  as  a  first-born,  and  his 
father  said  of  another,  etc.  A  creditor  may  collect  from  bondsmen  belong- 
ing to  orphans  for  their  father's  debt.  A  second-cousin,  a  third-cousin,  may 
be  a  witness  (according  to  the  law).  If  one  says,  "This  child  shall  inherit 
all,"  or,  "  My  wife  shall  take  an  equal  share  with  one  of  my  sons,"  he  is  to 
be  listened  to.  If  the  word  "gift"  was  mentioned  in  the  beginning,  etc. 
How  is  this  to  be  illustrated  ?  If  one  wrote,  "  The  field  on  the  east  side 
shall  be  given  to  A,  and  B  shall  inherit  that  on  the  west  side,"  is  title  given 
or  not?  All  that  is  said  in  one  speech  is  valid,  except  as  to  idolatry.  If 
one  says  :  "  A  shall  inherit  my  estate,"  and  he  has  a  daughter,  he  said  noth» 
ing  ;  or,  "A  shall  inherit  my  estate  instead  of  my  daughter,"  or,  "My 
daughter  instead  of  my  son  " — how  is  the  law  ?  A  Halakha  must  not  be 
taken  for  granted  from  a  discussion  or  from  an  act,  unless  one  is  told  to  do 
so.  Rabbi  said  :  My  youth  made  me  presume  to  contradict  Nathan  the 
Babylonian.  If  one  bequeath  all  his  estates  to  his  wife,  he  makes  her  a 
guardian  only.  (All  that  is  said  above  treats  of  a  will  by  a  sick  man.) 
How  is  it  if  this  was  done  while  in  good  health?  If  one  has  bequeathed 
all  his  estates  to  his  sons,  but  has  left  to  his  wife  a  small  portion  of  ground. 
How  is  it  in  a  similar  case  when  one  is  in  good  health  ?  A  sick  person 
who  has  bequeathed  all  his  estate  to  a  stranger,  it  is  to  be  investigated  if  the 
latter  is  in  some  way  fit  to  be  called  a  direct  heir.  An  inheritance  has  no 
interruption,  and  goes  direct  to  the  heirs  of  the  inheritor.  The  rabbis  con- 
demned one  who  bequeathed  his  estate  to  strangers,  leaving  out  his  chil- 
dren.    What  happened  to  Shamai  the  elder  with  Jonathan  b,  Uziel, 

271-297 

MiSHNAS  VI/I.  TO  X/L  "  This  is  my  son,"  he  is  to  be  trusted  ;  "  My 
brother,"  he  is  not.  If  one  testify  he  has  divorced  his  wife,  he  is  to  be 
trusted.  If  a  short  period  of  time,  can  one's  testimony  be  divided — that 
for  the  past  he  should  not  be  trusted,  and  for  the  future  he  should  ?  If  a 
sick  person  said  to  witnesses  :  "Write,  and  give  a  mana  to  so  and  so,"  and 
before  they  did  so  he  dies.  How  is  it  if  the  same  was  said  by  one  in  good 
health  ?  If  one  wishes  to  bequeath  his  estate  to  his  children,  etc.  How  if 
he  has  written  "  from  to-day  and  after  my  death  "  ?  If  a  sudarium  is  men- 
tioned, no  matter  what  version  was  used,  nothing  is  needed  to  be  added. 
"  My  estates  are  bequeathed  to  you,  and  after  you  to  B,"  etc.  Who  is 
called  a  crafty  villain  ?  To  a  gift  presented  by  one  who  is  dying,  at  what 
time  is  title  given  ?     There  was  a  woman  who  had  a  tree  on  the  estate  of 


xvi  SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS. 

R.  Bibbi  b.  Abayi,  etc.  If  A  said  to  B,  "  I  give  you  this  ox  as  a  present, 
with  the  stipulation  that  you  shall  return  it  to  me."  If  a  sick  man  said,  "  I 
have  a  mana  with  so  and  so,"  the  witnesses  may  write  this,  etc.  The  Halakha 
prevails  that  it  must  not  be  feared  the  court  will  err.  The  father  has  the 
right  to  gather  the  products  bequeathed  to  his  son,  etc.  If  he  left  grown-up 
and  minor  sons,  the  grown  ones  have  no  right  to  derive  any  benefit  on 
account  of  the  minors,  etc.  How  is  it  if  a  woman  has  borrowed  money, 
consumed  it,  and  thereafter  she  married  without  paying  her  debt,  and 
brought  estates  with  her  at  marriage  ?  "  The  following  is  not  to  be  re- 
turned in  the  jubilee  year,"  etc.  (p.  310).  In  some  respects  the  husband 
should  be  considered  as  an  heir,  and  in  some  respects  as  a  buyer,      297-311 

CHAPTER   IX. 

MiSHNAS  /.  AND  //,  If  on»  leave  sons  and  daughters,  if  the  inheritance  is 
of  great  worth,  the  daughters  must  be  supported  from  it  ;  if  a  moderate  one, 
the  daughters  must  be  supported,  and  the  sons  may  go  a-begging.  If  the 
estates  were  of  great  worth,  but  there  was  a  promissory  note  in  the  hands  of 
a  creditor.  If  the  deceased  left  a  widow  and  a  daughter,  and  the  estates  left 
could  support  only  one  of  them.  If  one  leave  sons,  daughters,  and  an  her- 
maphrodite. "  If  my  pregnant  wife  shall  bear  a  male,"  etc.  A  child  of  one 
day  inherits  and  bequeaths,  etc.  All  that  was  said  here  was  taught  in  the 
city  of  Sura.  In  Pumbeditha,  however,  it  was  taught  otherwise,  etc.  One 
Baid,  "  I  bequeath  my  estate  to  the  children  who  shall  be  born  of  you  by  me," 
etc.  One  said,  "  My  estate  shall  be  for  you  and  your  children."  And  R. 
Joseph  decided  :  One  half  of  the  estate  belongs  to  her,  and  the  other  half 
to  her  children.  There  was  one  who  had  sent  home  pieces  of  silk,  without 
any  order  to  which  member  of  his  household  they  belonged,       .         312-321 

MiSHNAS  ///.  TO  VII.  If  one  left  grown-up  and  minor  sons,  and  the 
former  improved  the  estate,  etc.  If  one  has  made  the  wedding  of  his  son  in 
one  of  his  houses,  the  son  acquires  title  to  the  house,  etc.  Three  things  the 
rabbis  enacted  as  laws  without  giving  any  reason.  Brothers  partners  in  busi- 
ness ;  if  one  of  them  was  taken  by  the  government  to  work,  etc.  If  one  of  the 
brothers  took  two  hundred  zuz  to  begin  the  study  of  the  Torah  or  to  learn 
a  trade,  etc.  Wedding  presents  may  be  replevined  by  the  court.  If  one 
has  betrothed  a  woman  and  dies  before  marriage,  a  virgin  collects  two 
hundred  and  a  widow  one  hundred  zuz.  Five  things  were  said  about  wed- 
ding presents  :  {a)  They  may  be  collected  by  the  court ;  {b)  they  are  returned 
at  the  time  when  the  donator  marries,  etc.  Who  is  like  unto  a  wealthy  man 
who  is  known  to  be  rich  by  his  many  cattle  and  estates,  etc.?  The  different 
explanations  of  Prov.  xv.  15.  If  one  sends  presents  to  the  home  of  his 
betrothed's  father,  to  the  value  of  one  hundred  manas,  and  has  partaken  of  the 
betrothal  meal,  even  for  one  dinar,  they  are  not  to  be  returned.  How  is  it 
when  the  presents  have  improved,  etc.?  If  a  sick  person  had  bequeathed  all 
his  estates  to  strangers,  etc.  Three  things  Achithophel  charged  his  sons,  etc. 
If  a  sick  person  said  :  "  A  shall  reside  in  such  a  house,"  or,  "  B  shall  con- 
sume the  products  of  such  and  such  a  tree,"  etc.  A  sick  person  who  has 
bequeathed  all  of  his  estates  to  strangers,  it  must  be  investigated  how  was 
the  case.  If  a  sick  person  has  bequeathed  all  his  estates  to  strangers  and 
thereafter  is  cured.     The  expressions,  "  He  shall  take,"  "  shall  be  rewarded." 


SYNOPSIS    OF    SUBJECTS.  xvii 

How  shall  it  be  done  if  he  expresses  himself :  "  A  is  the  one  who  shall  derive 
benefit  from  my  estates  "  ?  If  a  sick  person  has  confessed,  "I  owe  so  much 
to  so  and  so,"  shall  it  be  taken  for  granted,  etc.?  In  five  cases  the  act  of  a 
gift  is  not  considered  unless  tlie  bequeather  writes  "all  my  estates."  What 
is  considered  estates  ?  How  is  the  case  with  the  Holy  Scrolls — as  they 
must  not  be  sold,  are  they  considered  estate  or  not,  etc.?  The  mother  of 
Rami  b.  Kama  bequeathed  to  him  her  estates  on  one  evening.  The  mother 
of  R.  Amram  the  Pious  possessed  a  bundle  of  deeds,  etc.  Corbcerning  a 
gift  in  part  of  a  sick  person— in  one  respect  it  is  equal  to  a  gift  by  one  in 
good  health,  etc.  A  sick  person  who  has  bequeathed  all  his  estates  to 
strangers,  although  made  with  a  sudarium,  if  he  was  cured  he  may  retract. 
If  one  bequeathed  first  to  one  and  thereafter  to  another,  etc.,  .  321-345 
MiSHNA  VIII.  If  in  the  deed  it  was  not  mentioned  that  he  was  sick,  and 
he  claims  that  he  was  sick  at  the  time  of  writing  and  had  a  right  to  retract. 
What  kind  of  evidence  is  required,  etc.  It  happened  in  the  city  of  Bene 
Brack,  that  one  sold  the  estate  of  his  father  and  died;  and  his  relatives  com- 
plained that  he  was  not  of  age  when  he  died.  What  must  be  the  age  of  one 
who  has  the  right  to  sell  the  estates  left  him  by  his  father  ?  How  is  he  to  be 
considered  during  the  nineteenth  year — nineteen,  which  is  still  not  of  age,  or 
twenty  ?  There  was  one  lad  less  than  twenty,  who  had  sold  the  estate  of  his 
father.  If  a  lad  of  thirteen  years  and  one  day  presented  a  gift  to  some  one, 
his  act  is  valid.  If  one  divides  his  estates  verbally,  no  matter  if  he  was  in 
good  health  or  dangerously  sick,  according  to  R.  Elazar  to  real  estate  title 
is  given  by  money,  etc.  It  happened  with  an  inliabitant  of  the  city  of  Mruni, 
who  was  in  Jerusalem,  that  he  possessed  much  valuable  property  which  he 
desired  to  present  to  different  persons,  etc.  If  it  happens  that  a  sick  person 
divides  his  estates  verbally  on  the  Sabbath,  etc.  Suppose  a  house  falls  upon 
A  and  his  father  or  on  any  persons,  that  one  of  them  has  to  be  bequeather 
and  the  other  inheritor,  and  it  is  not  known  who  dies  first.  If  a  son  has  sold 
his  share  of  the  inheritance  of  his  father  to  some  one,  and  dies  while  the 
father  was  still  alive,  and  thereafter  his  father  died,  the  son  of  the  seller  has 
a  right  to  take  away  the  goods  from  the  buyer.  And  this  is  a  complicated 
case  in  the  law  of  money  matters.  A  son  inherits  from  his  mother  when 
he  is  already  in  the  grave,  so  that  his  brothers  from  his  father's  side  should 
inherit  from  him,   ...,....,.        345-357 

CHAPTER  X. 

MiSHNAS  /.  TO  V.  A  simple  get  (document)  the  witnesses  must  sign  at 
the  end  of  the  contents.  A  folded  one,  however,  the  witnesses  must  sign 
outside,  etc.  In  what  place  should  the  witnesses  sign  a  folding  document  ? 
If  the  signatures  of  the  witnesses  were  separated  by  a  space  of  two  lines  from 
the  writing,  the  document  is  invalid  ;  is  it  meant  with  their  usual  space  or 
without  ?  There  was  a  folding  document  which  came  before  Rabbi,  and  he 
said  :  "  There  is  no  date  to  it,"  etc.  All  must  be  done  as  is  customary  in  the 
country.  If  there  was  only  one  witness  to  a  simple,  etc.  If  in  the  document 
was  written,  "hundred  zuz,"  which  make  twenty  selas,  etc.  If  on  the  top  of 
the  document  was  written  "a  mana,"  and  on  the  bottom  "two  hundred 
guz,"  or  vice  versa,  etc.  There  was  a  document  in  which  wa  ,  written,  "six 
hundred  and  a  zuz."  mc.     There  was  a  toll-master  of  a  bridge  who  was  a 


xviii  SYNOPSIS    OF    SUBJECTS. 

Jew  who  said  to  Abayi :  "  Let  the  master  show  me  his  signature,"  etc.  A 
divorce  may  be  written  by  the  court  for  a  husband  in  the  absence  of  his 
wife — the  husband  must  pay  the  fees.  Documents  of  arbitrating  and  all 
other  acts  of  mediating  by  the  court  must  not  be  written  unless  both 
parties  are  present — at  the  expense  of  both.  There  was  a  receipt  approved 
by  Jeremiah  b.  Abba.  However,  the  same  woman  came  into  his  court  to 
claim  her  marriage  contract  several  years  later,  efc.  If  one  has  paid  a  part 
of  his  debt,  and  deposited  his  document  with  some  one.  If  it  happened  to 
one  that  a  promissory  note  became  erased,  he  must  find  witnesses.  The 
approval  must  be  written:  "We  three,  E,  F,  G,  the  undersigned,  were 
sitting  together,  and  before  us  was  brought  by  A,  the  son  of  B,  an  erased 
note,"  etc.  If  one  comes  before  the  court  claiming  that  he  has  lost  a  promis- 
sory note  from  so  and  so,  etc.  If  one  has  presented  a  gift  to  his  nei_p;hbor 
by  a  deed,  if  the  deed  was  returned  by  the  beneficiary  the  gift  is  considered 
returned.  The  following  is  the  order  of  claims  before  the  court.  l"he 
lender  comes  to  the  court  to  complain  that  the  borrower  does  not  pay  his 
debt,  etc.  Concerning  deeds,  they  may  write  another  one  without  mention- 
ing the  responsibility  of  the  seller  for  the  estate,  etc.  There  was  a  woman 
who  gave  money  to  one  that  he  might  buy  estates  for  her,  etc.  if  one  came 
to  claim  a  field  saying  that  he  possesses  a  deed,  and  also  that  it  was  in  his 
possession  the  years  of  hazakah,  etc.  If  there  was  any  forgery  in  the  docu- 
ment, or  there  were  incompetent  witnesses,  the  transferring  is  not  con- 
sidered,           357-379 

MiSHNAS  VI.  TO  IX.  If  one  has  paid  a  part  of  his  debt,  according  to 
R.  Jehudah  the  promissory  note  must  be  changed.  According  to  R.  Jose, 
the  lender  has  to  give  a  receipt  for  the  amount  paid.  The  Halakha  prevails 
neither  with  R.  Jehudah  nor  with  R.  Jose,  etc.  If  the  document  was 
written  at  the  date  used  by  the  government,  and  such  a  date  fell  on  a  Sab- 
bath or  on  the  Day  of  Atonement,  etc.  It  happened  with  R.  Itz'hak  b. 
Joseph,  who  had  money  with  R.  Abba,  etc.  Abba  said  to  his  scribe: 
"  When  it  shall  happen  that  you  have  to  write  a  document  with  a  later  date, 
you  must  write  as  follows  :  This  document  was  postdated  by  us  for  a  cer- 
tain reason,"  etc.  If  one  holds  a  promissory  note  for  a  hundred  zuz,  and 
requests  that  it  shall  be  rewritten  in  two  notes  each  of  fifty  zuz,  etc.  If 
there  were  two  brothers,  one  rich  and  one  poor,  and  they  inherited  from 
their  father  a  bath-house,  or  an  olive-press  house,  if  for  business  they  must 
share  equally  ;  but  if  for  private  use,  etc.  If  there  are  two  persons  who  bear 
one  and  the  same  name,  they  cannot  give  promissory  notes  to  each  other, 
nor  to  any  of  the  inhabitants.  If  a  promissory  note  was  paid,  etc.  If  one 
(while  struggling  with  death)  says  to  his  son:  "  A  promissory  note  among 
the  notes  I  possess  is  paid,  but  I  do  not  remember  which,"  etc.  If  one 
made  a  loan  to  his  neighbor  through  a  surety,  he  must  not  collect  first  from 
the  surety,  etc.  Whether  a  surety  has  to  pay  or  not,  R.  Jehudah  and  R.  Jose 
differ,  etc.  If  the  surety  said  :  "  Lend  to  this  man,  and  I  am  the  surety,"  etc. 
If  the  expression  was,  "Give  to  him,  and  I  will  return  you,"  then  has  the 
lender  nothing  to  do  with  the  borrower.  There  was  a  judge  who  trans- 
ferred the  estate  of  the  borrower  to  the  lender,  before  the  lender  had  de. 
mandefl  his  money  from  the  borrower,  etc.  There  was  a  surety  for  orphans 
who  had  paid  the  lender  i)efnre  he  notified  the  orphans.  If  one  was  put 
under  the  ban  because  he  declined  to  pay   his   debts.     It    the    promissory 


SYNOPSIS   OF   SUBJECTS.  xix 

note  of  the  deceased  was  in  the  hands  of  the  surety,  who  claims  to  have  paid 
the  lender,  etc.  There  was  a  surety  for  a  deceased  debtor  to  a  heathen, 
who  paid  the  heathen  before  he  had  demanded  his  debt  from  the  orphans. 
If  one  made  himself  surety  to  a  woman  for  a  marriage  contract,  etc.  A  sick 
person  who  has  consecrated  all  his  estates,  and  at  the  same  time  said  :  "So 
and  so  has  a  mana  with  me,"  he  may  be  trusted.  A  sick  person  who  said : 
"  A  has  a  mana  with  me,"  and  thereafter  the  orphans  claimed  that  they  have 
paid,  they  are  to  be  trusted.  If  one  borrows  money  on  a  promissory 
note,  the  lender  has  a  right  to  collect  from  encumbered  estates.  If  it  hap- 
pen that  a  creditor  sees  his  debtor  in  the  market,  grapples  him  by  the  throat 
and  one  passes  by  and  says,  "Leave  him  alone,  I  will  pay,"  he  is  neverthe- 
less free,  because  the  loan  was  made  not  upon  his  surety.  Biblically  there 
is  no  difference  between  a  loan  on  a  document  and  by  word  of  mouth,  and 
it  should  be  collected  from  encumbered  estates,  A  verbal  loan  is  not  col- 
lectible— neither  from  heirs  nor  from  buyers.  If  the  surety  signed  before 
the  signatures,  it  may  be  collected  from  encumbered  estates.  Only  a  surety 
in  the  presence  of  the  court  is  free  from  a  sudarium,  but  all  others  are  not, 

379-395 


TRACT   BAB  A   BATHRA   (LAST 
GATE). 


(PART    II.) 
CHAPTER  VI. 

RULES  AND  REGULATIONS  CONCERNING  THE  SALE  OF  SEEDS  WHICH 
BECOME  SPOILED,  THE  QUANTITY  OF  DUST  WHICH  MAY  OR  MAY 
NOT  BE  ACCEPTED  IN  THE  MEASURES  OF  GRAIN  AND  FRUIT, 
AND    WINE  WHICH    BECOMES  SOUR  AFTER   SALE    BEFORE  DELIVERY. 

CONCERNING    CONTRACTORS   FOR    HOUSES    AND    STABLES,    WELLS 

AND  GARDENS  SITUATED  IN  NEIGHBORS'  PROPERTIES  OR  PUB- 
LIC THOROUGHFARES  IN  PRIVATE  GROUND,  AND  CONCERNING 
GRAVES   AND   CAVES   FOR   BURYING. 

MISHNA  /. :  If  one  sold  fruit  or  grain  (without  any  stipu- 
lation), and  the  buyer  sowed  it  but  it  did  not  sprout,  even  if 
this  were  seed  of  flax,  the  seller  is  not  responsible.  R.  Simeon 
b.  Gamaliel,  however,  maintains  that  if  he  sold  seeds  for  gardens, 
which  could  not  be  used  for  eating,  the  seller  is  responsible, 

GEMARA:  It  was  taught:  If  one  sold  an  ox,  and  there- 
after it  was  found  it  was  a  goring  one,  the  sale  is  void  accord- 
ing to  Rabh.  Samuel,  however,  said :  The  seller  may  say :  "  I 
sold  it  to  you  for  slaughtering."  Let  us  see:  If  the  buyer 
was  one  of  those  that  buy  for  slaughtering  (e.g.,  a  butcher),  why 
then  should  the  sale  be  void  according  to  Rabh?  And  if  he 
was  one  who  buys  for  working  purposes  (e.g.,  a  farmer),  why 
should  the  sale  be  vaHd  according  to  Samuel  ?  It  treats  of  one 
who  buys  for  both  purposes  (e.g.,  if  he  was  both  a  farmer  and  a 
butcher).  But  even  then,  let  us  see  the  amount  he  paid  for 
it,  from  which  we  can  judge  whether  he  bought  for  slaughter- 
ing or  for  work.  It  treats  of  where  the  meat  has  increased  in 
price  to  the  extent  of  the  value  of  an  ox  for  working.  If  so, 
what  is  the  difference  (the  buyer  gets  the  full  value  for  his 

ai5 


2i6  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

money  in  any  case)?  The  difference  is,  if  the  trouble  of 
slaughtering  and  selling  the  meat  should  be  taken  into  con- 
sideration (according  to  Rabh  it  should,  and  therefore  the  sale 
is  void;  and  according  to  Samuel  it  should  not).  Again,  let  us 
see  how  was  the  case.  If  the  seller  has  no  cash  to  return,  why, 
according  to  Rabh,  should  the  sale  be  void,  so  that  the  buyer 
has  to  return  the  ox?  Let  him  keep  the  ox  for  his  money;  as 
people  say :  "  If  you  keep  something  in  hand  belonging  to  your 
debtor,  even  if  it  is  bran,  take  the  trouble  to  make  money  by  it." 
It  means  when  the  seller  is  not  lacking  in  cash.  According  to 
Rabh,  the  sale  is  void  because  the  majority  must  always  be 
taken  into  consideration,  and  the  majority  of  cattle-buyers  are 
traders;  and  Samuel  maintains  that  only  in  prohibitory  laws 
the  majority  is  to  be  taken  into  consideration,  but  not  in  money 
matters. 

Come  and  hear  an  objection  from  the  following  (First  Gate, 
v.,  Mishna  I.) :  "  Should  an  ox  gore  a  cow  and  the  new-born 
calf  be  found  dead  at  her  side,  and  it  be  not  known,"  etc.  (see 
there,  end  of  the  Mishna,  p.  io6).  Now,  according  to  the 
theory  of  our  Mishna,  the  decision  of  the  cited  Mishna  would 
not  be  correct,  as  the  majority  of  cattle  should  be  taken  into 
consideration,  which  conceive  and  bring  forth  living  offspring. 
Hence  the  dead  one  found  at  her  side  is  dead  because  of  the 
goring.  Why,  then,  is  it  considered  doubtful  there?  The 
doubt  was,  if  the  ox  gored  the  cow  in  front,  so  that  the  prema- 
ture birth  took  place  because  of  terror  before  goring,  or  if 
the  cow  was  gored  in  the  back,  and  the  premature  birth  was 
occasioned  by  the  goring,  and  therefore  the  extent  of  the  injury 
is  considered  doubtful.  And  there  is  a  rule  that  such  be 
divided. 

Shall  we  assume  that  the  point  of  difference  between  Rabh 
and  Samuel  is  the  same  as  that  in  which  the  Tanaim  of  the 
following  Boraitha  differ?  "If  an  ox  was  pasturing  and  an- 
other one  was  found  killed  at  his  side,  although  investigation 
shows  that  the  death  occurred  from  goring,  and  the  pasturing 
ox  was  vicious  in  goring,  or  the  death  occurred  from  biting, 
and  the  pasturing  ox  was  vicious  in  biting,  it  is  still  uncertain 
that  this  ox  has  gored  or  bitten  the  other."  R.  Aha,  however, 
said:  If  there  was  found  a  camel  killed  at  the  side  of  a  biting 
camel,  although  the  latter  was  not  yet  vicious,  it  must  be  taken 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  217 

for  a  certainty  that  he  killed  the  other.  The  schoolmen  thought 
majority  and  hazakah  *  identical;  for  as  a  goring  or  a  biting 
animal  has  a  hazakah  to  gore,  bite,  and  kill,  it  is  to  be  taken  for 
a  certainty  that  the  gored  or  bitten  one  found  at  his  side  was 
killed  by  him,  and  the  same  is  the  case  with  the  majority. 

Is  it  not  to  assume  that  Rabh  holds  with  R.  Aha,  and  Samuel 
with  the  first  Tana? 

Nay !  Rabh  may  say :  My  decision  is  correct,  even  in  accord- 
ance with  the  first  Tana  of  the  cited  Boraitha,  as  the  reason  of  his 
decision  is  not  majority,  but  hazakah — i.e.,  there  was  not  a 
majority  of  vicious  oxen,  but  one,  which  had  a  habit  (hazakah) 
of  goring  or  biting,  as  hazakah  and  majority  are  not  identical; 
but  if  there  should  be  a  majority,  it  would  be  taken  into  con- 
sideration. And,  also,  Samuel  may  say :  My  decision  is  correct, 
even  in  accordance  with  R.  Aha,  as  his  reason  is  the  habit 
(hazakah)  of  that  animal  \Vhich  was  found  near,  and  a  majority 
would  not  be  taken  into  consideration. 

Come  and  hear  an  objection  from  our  Mishna,  which  states 
that  the  seller  is  not  responsible,  even  for  seeds  of  flax.  Does 
not  the  term  "  even  "  mean,  although  the  majority  is  for  sow- 
ing, and  nevertheless  it  is  not  taken  into  consideration  ?  Hence 
it  opposes  Rabh?  In  this  point  the  Tanaim  of  the  following 
Boraitha  differ :  "  If  one  sold  fruit,  and  the  buyer  has  sown 
it  but  it  did  not  sprout,  if  it  was  garden  seed,  which  could  not 
be  used  for  eating,  he  is  responsible;  but  if  it  was  seed  of 
flax,  he  is  not."  R.  Jose,  however,  said  that  the  seller  has  to 
return  to  the  buyer  the  value  of  the  seed,  as  the  majority  buy 
it  for  sowing  only.  The  sages,  however,  answered  him :  There 
are  many  who  buy  it  for  other  purposes. 

But  who  of  the  Tanaim  in  this  Boraitha  hold  not  the  theory 
of  majority?  Shall  we  assume  that  it  means  R.  Jose;  and  the 
sages  answered  him  that  there  are  many  people  who  buy  seeds, 
etc.?  Then  all  of  them  hold  the  theory  of  majority,  but  one 
takes  into  consideration  the  majority  of  the  seed  (i.e.,  the  major- 
ity of  seed  which  is  bought  for  sowing,  and  the  other  the 
majority  of  men)?  Therefore  we  must  say  that  it  means,  the 
difference  of  opinion  between  the  first  Tana  and  R.  Jose,  or  the 
difference  of  opinion  between  the  first  Tana  and  the  sages, 

*  The  translation  of  "  hazakah  "  is  chiefly  "  occupancy  "  ;  however,  this  term  is 
applicable  to  everything  which  is  the  habit  of  persons,  animals,  etc. 


2i8  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

who  answered  him  (i.e.,  the  statement  in  the  Boraitha,  "and 
they  said  to  him,"  means  the  first  Tana,  not  R.  Jose). 

The  rabbis  taught :  "  The  seller  has  to  return  to  the  buyer 
the  value  of  the  seed,  but  not  the  expenses  for  ploughing, 
sowing,  etc. ;  according  to  others,  however,  the  expenses  also." 
Who  are  the  others?  Said  R.  Hisda:  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel. 
Which  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel?  Shall  we  assume  from  our 
Mishna,  which  states  that  for  seeds  which  could  not  be  used  for 
eating,  he  is  responsible,  and  from  the  first  Tana's  statement, 
that  the  seller  is  not  responsible  for  seeds  of  fiax,  that  it  is  to  be 
inferred  for  seeds  of  flax  only,  but  for  other  seeds  which  cannot 
be  used  for  eating,  the  Tana  is  also  of  the  opinion  that  the  seller 
is  responsible?  Then  they  do  not  differ  at  all.  Therefore  it 
must  be  said  that  they  difier  in  the  expenses,  the  first  Tana  hold- 
ing the  seller  must  return  the  value  of  the  seeds  only,  and  R. 
Simeon  all  the  expenses  also  (and  so  R.  Hisda  means  R.  Simeon 
of  our  Mishna).  But  perhaps  the  reverse  is  the  case — R. 
Simeon  holds  the  value  of  the  seeds  only,  while  the  first  Tana 
holds  the  expenses  also?  This  presents  no  difificulty;  for  as 
usual  the  second  Tana  adds  something.  But  perhaps  the  en- 
tire Mishna  is  in  acordance  with  R.  Simeon  and  is  not  com- 
plete, but  should  read  thus:  If  one  sells  fruits  and  they  were 
sown  and  did  not  sprout,  even  if  they  were  seeds  of  fiax,  he  is 
not  responsible.  Such  is  the  decree  of  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel, 
who  holds  that  only  for  garden  seeds  that  cannot  be  used  for 
eating  the  seller  is  responsible.  Therefore  we  must  say  that 
R.  Hisda  means  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  of  the  following 
Boraitha:  "  If  one  delivered  wheat  for  grinding  of  fine  meal, 
but  the  miller  did  not  properly  grind  it,  but  made  it  into  bruised 
grain  or  bran ;  or  if  meal  were  delivered  to  a  baker  and  he  did 
not  bake  it  properly,  but  when  he  took  it  out  it  fell  to  pieces;  or 
if  an  ox  were  delivered  to  a  slaughterer,  and  he  made  it  illegal, 
each  of  these  persons  is  responsible,  as  they  are  considered 
bailees  for  hire."  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  said,  that  they  not 
only  have  to  pay  the  damages,  but  also  for  the  shame  of  the 
owner  in  the  eyes  of  the  gue^^t  who  were  invited  to  the  meal, 
as  well  as  for  the  shame  of  the  guests  themselves;  and  so  the 
same  R.  Simeon  used  to  say:  There  was  a  great  custom  in 
Jerusalem,  if  one  ordered  a  banquet  for  guests,  and  the  host 
spoiled  it,  he  had  to  pay  for  his  own  shame,  and  for  the  shame 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  219 

of  the  guests.  There  was  also  another  great  custom  in  Jerusa- 
lem :  "  a  flag  was  put  at  the  door  where  a  banquet  was  to  be 
given,  and  the  invited  guests  had  to  enter  only  when  the  flag 
was  still  at  the  door,  but  when  it  was  taken  off  they  were  not 
to  enter  any  more." 

MISHNA  //. :  If  one  buys  fruit,  he  has  to  accept  a  quarter 
of  a  kabh  of  dust  on  a  saah;  of  dry  figs,  he  has  to  accept  ten 
wormy  ones  in  a  hundred ;  on  a  cellar  of  wine,  he  must  accept 
ten  harsh  ones  on  each  hundred;  if  he  sells  him  earthen  jugs 
made  in  Sharon  he  has  to  accept  ten  unglazed  ones  on  each 
hundred. 

GEMARA :  R.  K'tina  taught :  By  a  quarter  of  a  kabh  of 
dust  is  meant  peas,  but  riot  earth  proper.  Is  that  so?  Did  not 
Rabba  b.  Hyya  Ktuspha'h  say  in  the  name  of  Rabba:  If  one 
has  cleaned  off  little  stones  from  the  barn  of  his  neighbor  he 
has  to  pay  him  the  value  of  wheat  (i.e.,  as  if  they  were  there, 
he  may  put  them  in  the  measure,  but  to  put  them  intentionally 
he  is  not  allowed)  ?  Peas,  he  has  to  accept  a  quarter  of  a  kabh 
on  a  saah,  but  dust  he  has  also  to  accept,  although  a  less  quan- 
tity. You  say  less  than  a  quarter  of  dust,  but  did  not  the  fol- 
lowing Boraitha  state:  "  If  one  sells  wheat,  he  has  to  accept  a 
quarter  of  a  kabh  of  peas  on  a  saah ;  if  barley,  a  quarter  of  chaff 
on  a  saah;  and  if  lentils,  a  quarter  of  dust."  Is  it  not  to  assume 
that  a  quarter  of  dust  is  to  be  accepted  for  wheat  and  barley 
also?  With  lentils  it  is  different,  because  they  are  not  cut,  but 
torn  out  from  earth,  and  therefore  usually  a  great  deal  of 
dust  remains  with  them,  which  is  not  the  case  with  wheat 
and  barley;  but  if  it  is  so,  infer  from  this  that  for  wheat  and 
barley  no  dust  must  be  accepted  at  all,  while  it  is  stated  above 
that  less  than  a  kabh  is  to  be  accepted?  Nay,  from  the  state- 
ment that  for  lentils  he  has  to  accept  a  quarter  nothing  is  to  be 
inferred;  this  being  stated,  lest  one  say  because  there  is  usually 
much  dust  more  than  this  quantity  is  to  be  accepted,  it  comes  to 
teach  us  that  it  is  not  so. 

R.  Huna  said :  If  the  buyer  has  found  more  than  the  above 
prescribed  quantity  and  sieves  it,  he  may  sieve  the  whole  quan- 
tity he  bought,  without  leaving  any  dust  at  all,  and  the  seller 
has  to  fill  the  measure  without  allowing  for  the  prescribed  quan- 
tity. According  to  some  it  is  the  strict  law,  as  usually  one 
gives  his  money  for  clean  fruit,  but  if  for  a  trifle  of  dust,  as 


220  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

much  as  a  quarter  of  a  kabh  on  a  saah,  the  buyer  is  not  very- 
particular  and  does  not  take,  the  trouble  to  sieve  it ;  but  in  our 
case,  when  he  is  compelled  to  trouble  himself  with  sieving,  he 
may  make  the  whole  fruit  extremely  clean;  and  according  to 
others,  it  is  a  fine,  as  usually  no  more  than  a  quarter  of  a  kabh 
ought  to  be  found  in  a  saah,  and  when  there  was  found  more, 
it  is  presumed  that  the  seller  put  it  in  intentionally,  and  therefore 
he  is  fined  by  the  rabbis. 

Come  and  hear  an  objection  from  the  following  Boraitha : 
"  If  a  planter  undertakes  to  plant  a  field  with  fruit  trees,  the 
owner  of  it  must  accept  empty  space  for  ten  trees  on  each 
hundred,  but  if,  however,  it  was  found  empty  for  more  than 
this,  he  has  to  plant  trees  on  the  whole  empty  space."  Hence 
is  R.  Huna's  above  statement  law?  Said  R.  Huna  b.  R. 
Jehoshua:  This  is  not  a  support  to  R.  Huna,  as  an  empty  place 
for  more  than  ten  trees  is  to  be  considered  as  a  separate  field, 
and  the  planter  who  undertook  to  plant  the  owner's  fields  is 
to  be  considered  as  if  he  had  to  begin  the  planting  in  this  empty 
field,  and  therefore  he  has  to  plant  the  whole  field,  which  case 
is  not  similar  to  that  of  R.  Huna. 

" //  he  sold  a  cellar  of  wine"  etc.  Let  us  see  how  is  the 
case.  Whether  the  seller  said  to  the  buyer,  "  I  sell  you 
a  cellar  of  wine  "  or  "  this  cellar  of  wine,"  it  is  a  difficulty  from 
the  following  Boraitha.  "  If  he  said  '  I  sell  you  a  cellar  of 
wine,'  all  of  it  must  be  good ;  if  '  this  cellar  of  wine,'  he  must 
give  him  wine  which  is  sold  in  the  retail  stores;  but  if  he 
said,  'I  sell  you  this  cellar,'  even  if  it  was  found  to  be  all  vinegar, 
the  sale  is  valid."  Our  Mishna  speaks  of  the  case  wherein  the 
seller  said,  "  a  cellar  of  wine,"  and  there  is  no  contradiction  of 
the  cited  Boraitha  as  it  should  read,  and  the  buyer  has  to  accept 
the  ten  spoiled  ones  in  the  hundred.  But  has  not  R.  Hyya 
taught :  If  one  sells  a  barrel  of  wine,  he  must  give  the  buyer  all 
good  wine?  With  one  barrel  it  is  different,  as  a  barrel  contains 
only  one  kind  of  wine;  but  has  not  R.  Z'bid  in  the  name  of  the 
school  of  R.  Ossiah  taught  in  "  a  cellar  of  wine  "  all  must  be 
good,  in  "  the  cellar  of  wine  "  the  seller  must  give  the  buyer 
all  good  wine,  but  the  latter  must  accept  ten  bad  in  the  hun- 
dred ;  and  this  is  the  word  Outzar  ("  treasure  of  wine  ")  which 
the  sages  have  taught  in  our  Mishna?  Therefore  it  must  be 
said  that  our  Mishna  treats  of  the  case  wherein  the  seller  said 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  221 

"  this  cellar,"  and  the  contradiction  from  the  above  Boraitha 
in  the  case,  if  "  this  cellar,"  presents  no  difficulty,  as  R.  Z'bid 
says,  if  the  seller  told  the  buyer,  "  I  sell  you  wine  for  keeping," 
and  the  Boraitha  says  the  words  "  for  keeping  "  were  not  said, 
and  therefore  (the  Halakha  prevails  thus)  if  the  seller  said,  "  a 
cellar  of  wine  for  keeping,"  all  of  it  must  be  good;  if  "  this  cellar 
of  wine  for  keeping,"  the  buyer  must  accept  ten  in  the  hun- 
dred ;  if  "  this  cellar  of  wine,"  without  the  addition  "  for  keep- 
ing," the  seller  may  give  the  buyer  wine  that  is  sold  in  retail 
stores. 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question;  How  is  it  if  the 
seller  said,  "  a  cellar  of  wine,"  without  the  addition  "  for  keep- 
ing "  ?  On  this  point  R.  Aha  and  Rabhina  differ.  According 
to  one  the  buyer  has  to  accept  ten  in  the  hundred,  and  accord- 
ing to  the  other  he  has  not,  the  one  who  says  "  he  must  accept  " 
inferring  it  from  R.  Z'bid,  who  states  in  the  case  of  "  a  cellar  of 
wine,"  all  of  it  must  be  good,  and  it  was  explained  above  that 
he  speaks  of  the  case  in  which  the  seller  added  "  for  keeping," 
from  which  it  is  to  be  inferred  that  if  these  words  were  not 
added,  the  buyer  must  accept;  and  the  other,  who  says  the 
buyer  must  not,  infers  from  the  above  Boraitha,  which  states 
in  the  case  of  "  a  cellar  of  wine  "  all  of  it  must  be  good;  and  it 
was  explained  above  that  the  Boraitha  treats  of  the  case 
wherein  "  for  keeping  "  was  not  said.  But  to  him  who  infers 
from  R.  Z'bid,  is  not  the  Boraitha  contradictory?  He  may  say 
the  Boraitha  is  not  completed,  but  should  read  thus:  This  is 
said,  if  the  seller  told  the  buyer  "  for  keeping,"  but  if  not,  the 
buyer  must  accept,  and  if  the  seller  said  "  this  cellar  of  wine  " 
without  any  addition,  he  may  give  the  buyer  wine  which  is  sold 
in  the  stores;  but  to  him  who  infers  from  the  Boraitha,  is  not 
R.  Z'bid  contradictory  who,  as  explained,  said  that  the  seller 
told  the  buyer  the  wine  was  "  for  keeping  "  ?  He  may  say  that 
the  same  is  the  case  if  the  seller  did  not  say  "  for  keeping," 
and  the  above  explanation  was  only  in  order  that  the  Boraitha 
and  R.  Z'bid  might  not  contradict  each  other;  in  reality,  how- 
ever, R.  Z'bid  does  not  agree  with  the  Boraitha. 

R.  Jehudah  said :  On  wine  which  is  sold  in  stores  the  usual 
benediction  may  be  made.  (The  benediction  is,  "  Blessed  be 
Thou  the  Lord  our  God  King  of  the  Universe  who  hast  created 
the  products  of  the  vine,")  and  R.  Jehudah  means  to  say  that 


222  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

although  the  wine  in  stores  is  usually  bad,  it  is  still  called  the 
product  of  the  vine.  R.  Hisda,  however,  said :  What  have  we 
to  do  with  such  a  wine  (i.e.,  how  can  such  wine  be  called  a 
product  of  the  vine)  ? 

An  objection  was  raised:  In  the  case  of  moulded  bread  and 
sour  wine,  and  any  dish  of  which  the  appearance  is  spoiled,  the 
benediction  should  be  "  That  all  is  created  by  His  words  " 
(hence  it  contradicts  R.  Jehudah).  Said  R.  Z'bid :  R.  Jehudah 
admits  that  over  wine  made  of  kernels,  which  is  usually  sold 
on  the  corners  of  streets,  the  right  benediction  may  be  said. 
Said  Abayi  to  R.  Joseph:  '*  There  is  R.  Jehudah.  and  there  is 
R.  Hisda,  each  of  them  with  his  opinion ;  I  would  like  to  know 
how  is  yours,  master?"  And  he  answered,  "I  am  aware  of 
the  following  Boraitha :  '  If  one  examine  a  barrel  of  wine  for 
the  purpose  of  separating  heave-offering  from  it,  for  all  others, 
and  he  did  so  for  a  month  or  two,  and  thereafter  it  was  found 
that  the  wine  turned  into  vinegar,  three  days  is  considered  cer- 
tain, and  further  on  doubtful.'  How  is  this  to  be  understood? 
Said  R.  Johanan  thus :  The  first  three  days  from  the  examina- 
tion it  is  to  be  considered  certainly  wine,  and  thereafter  it  is 
to  be  considered  doubtful.  Why  so?  Because  usually  wine 
becomes  sour  from  the  top,  and  when  he  tasted  it,  it  was  not 
sour,  and  if  you  say  it  had  become  sour  immediately  after  he 
tasted  it,  the  smell  only  was  vinegar-like,  but  the  taste  still 
of  wine  (as  the  sages  had  a  tradition  that  less  than  three  days 
from  the  beginning  it  becomes  not  vinegar)  and  such  is  con- 
sidered wine.  R.  Jehoshua  b.  Levi,  however,  said  that  all  he 
separated  in  the  last  three  days  is  certainly  vinegar,  but  pre- 
vious to  that  it  is  doubtful.  Why  so?  Because  usually  wine 
begins  to  turn  sour  from  the  bottom,  and  maybe  when  he 
tasted  it  it  was  sour  already,  of  which  he  was  not  aware;  and 
even  should  I  admit  that  wine  begins  to  turn  sour  from  the 
top,  my  decision  is  still  correct  as  it  may  be  that  it  began  to 
turn  sour  immediately  after  being  tasted,  and  I  hold  that  if  it 
smells  of  vinegar,  though  the  taste  is  still  of  wine,  it  must  be 
considered  vinegar  "  (hence  according  to  R.  Jehoshua  b.  Levi 
the  wine  which  is  sold  in  stores  is  not  considered  wine  at  all,  and 
according  to  R.  Johanan  it  is  considered  wine). 

The  sages  of  the  South  taught  in  the  name  of  R.  Jehoshua  b. 
Levi  thus:  The  first  three  days  it  should  be  considered  as  wine, 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  223 

the  last  three  days  as  vinegar,  and  in  the  days  between  as  doubt- 
ful. But  does  this  statement  not  contradict  itself?  The  first 
three  days  it  certainly  is  wine,  hence  if  the  smell  is  of  vinegar  and 
the  taste  of  wine,  it  is  considered  wine;  and  thereafter  they  said, 
the  last  three  days  it  is  certainly  vinegar,  from  which  it  is  to  be 
inferred  that  if  the  smell  is  of  vinegar  and  the  taste  of  wine,  it 
is  considered  vinegar.  The  case  was  that  it  was  found  wholly 
strong  vinegar,  and  it  is  stated  above  that  it  takes  no  less  than 
three  days  after  it  turns  sour  to  become  wholly  vinegar;  hence 
it  is  to  be  supposed  that  in  the  last  three  days  it  was  already 
vinegar.  However,  according  to  which  of  these  two  was  the 
conclusion  of  R.  Joseph?  In  this,  also,  R.  Mari  and  R.  Z'bid 
differ,  one  saying  that  his  conclusion  was  in  accordance  with 
R.  Johanan,  and  the  other  saying  it  was  in  accordance  with  R. 
Jehoshua  b.  Levi. 

It  was  taught:  If  one  sells  a  barrel  of  wine  and  it  turns 
sour,  according  to  Rabh  the  first  three  days  it  is  considered 
under  the  control  of  the  seller,  and  thereafter  "  it  is  considered 
under  the  control  of  the  buyer."  Samuel,  however,  maintains 
that  the  seller  is  not  responsible  even  when  it  was  still  in  his 
barrel,  as  this  is  to  be  considered  the  fate  of  the  buyer. 

R.  Joseph  acted  in  accordance  with  Rabh  concerning  beer 
of  dates,  and  according  to  Samuel  with  wine,  the  Halakha,  ac- 
cording to  Samuel,  however,  prevails  in  every  respect.* 

MISHNA  ///. :  If  one  sells  wine  and  it  turns  sour,  the  seller 
is  not  responsible ;  if,  however,  it  was  known  that  the  nature  of 
his  wine  was  to  turn  sour  (and  the  buyer  was  not  aware  of  it), 
the  sale  is  void.  If  he  said,  "  I  sell  you  wine,  prepared  with 
spices,  in  good  order,"  the  wine  must  remain  in  good  order 
until  the  feast  of  Pentecost.  (Afterward  it  may  become  spoiled 
by  heat.)  If  the  seller  sold  the  buyer  old  wine,  it  must  be  from 
last  year;  and  if  he  said  ''very  old,"  it  must  be  aged  not  less 
than  three  years. 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Jose  b.  Hanina:  All  this  is  said  of  the 
case  wherein  it  was  delivered  to  the  buyer  in  his  own  jugs; 
but  if  it  was  placed  in  the  jugs  of  the  seller,  the  buyer  might 
say :  "  Here  are  your  jugs  and  your  wine."     Why  then  may  not 

*  The  text  treats  concerning-  the  benedictions  on  wine,  beer,  etc.,  for  which  the 
proper  place  is  the  Tract  Benediction,  and  to  which  it  will  be  transferred 


224  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD.        ' 

the  seller  claim :  You  ought  not  to  keep  it  so  long?  It  means 
that  while  selling,  the  seller  told  the  buyer  "  for  keeping."  But 
what  compels  R.  Jose  to  such  a  difficult  interpretation,  in  which 
the  jugs  were  the  buyer's,  and  the  seller  says  "  for  keeping  "  ? 
Why  is  it  not  simply  said  that  the  jugs  were  the  seller's  and  he 
said  nothing?  Said  Rabha:  It  is  because  the  further  state- 
ment of  the  Mishna,  "  that  if  it  was  known  that  the  nature  of 
the  seller's  wine  was  to  turn  sour  the  sale  is  void  "  was  a  diffi- 
culty to  him.  Why,  then,  let  the  seller  claim  he  ought  not  to 
keep  it  so  long?  We  must  then  say,  that  the  Mishna  treats  of 
the  case  wherein  the  seller  told  the  buyer  "  for  keeping  "  (he 
therefore  interpreted  the  whole  Mishna,  that  such  was  the 
stipulation),  and  infer  from  this  that  so  it  is.  He,  however, 
differs  with  R.  Hyya  b.  Joseph,  who  said  that  the  fate  of  one 
causes  the  spoiling  of  his  wine;  as  it  is  written  [Habakkuk, 
ii.  5]  :  "  And  even  the  wine  of  a  proud  man  rebels." 

Said  R.  Mari :  If  one  is  proud,  he  is  not  tolerated  even  by 
his  family,  as  the  above  verse  reads  "  the  proud  man  whose 
house  will  not  stand,"  which  is  to  say  that  he  is  not  tolerated 
by  his  household.  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh  said:  A 
commoner  who  disguises  himself  in  the  garment  of  a  scholar, 
cannot  enter  into  the  habitation  of  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be 
He;  and  this  is  deduced  from  an  analogy  of  expression,  Nvxe, 
which  is  to  be  found  in  Ex.  xv.  13.  The  Hebrew  expression  in 
the  above  cited  verse  is  also  Y'nvie  (literally,  "  dwelling,"  "  in- 
habit "). 

Rabha  said:  "  If  one  sells  a  barrel  of  wine  to  a  storekeeper 
(with  the  stipulation  that  he  shall  sell  it  at  retail  and  then  pay 
the  owner),  and  a  half  or  a  third  of  the  wine  turns  sour,  the  law 
is  that  the  seller  must  accept  the  return  of  his  wine;  and  this  is 
said  only  in  case  the  faucet  was  not  changed  by  the  storekeeper, 
but  if  it  was  changed  and  placed  near  to  yeast,  there  is  no 
responsibility,  and  there  is  also  no  responsibility  if  the  store- 
keeper kept  the  wine  over  the  market  day."  He  said  again: 
"  If  one  has  accepted  wine  for  half  interest,  with  the  intention  of 
taking  it  to  the  suburb  of  Dwulchpht  (where  usually  wine  is 
dear),  and  by  the  time  it  reached  there  the  price  was  lowered, 
the  law  is  that  the  owner  has  to  accept  the  return  of  the 
wine."  The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question :  How  is  it 
when   the   same  was   vinegar?      Said  R.    Hillel   to   R.    Ashi: 


TRACT    BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  225 

When  we  were  at  R.  Kahana's  he  said  to  us,  the  same  is  the  case 
with  vinegar,  as  he  agrees  with  R.  Jose  b.  Hanina's  statement 
above. 

"  Old  wine,''  etc.  A  Boraitha  in  addition  to  our  Mishna 
states  that  if  it  was  said,  "  very  old  wine,  it  must  keep  its  good 
quaHty  until  the  feast  of  tabernacle  in  the  third  year." 

MISHNA  IV. :  If  one  sells  to  one  a  place  for  the  purpose 
of  building  a  wedding-house  for  his  son  or  a  widow-house  for 
his  daughter,  and  the  same  is  the  case  if  a  contractor  under- 
takes to  build  such  for  him,  the  size  must  be  not  less  than  four 
ells  in  length  by  six  in  breadth;  such  is  the  decree  of  R.  Aqiba. 
R.  Ishmael,  however,  maintains  that  this  is  the  size  of  a  stable. 
If  one  wishes  to  build  a  stable  for  cattle,  he  builds  it  four  by 
six.  The  smallest  house  is  no  less  than  six  by  eight,  a  large 
one  eight  by  ten,  and  a  triclinum  (restaurant)  ten  by  ten,  and 
the  height  must  be  a  half  of  its  length  and  of  its  width.  An 
example  of  this,  said  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel,  was  the  building 
of  the  Temple. 

GEMARA :  Why  does  the  Mishna  state  "  a  wedding-house 
for  his  son  and  a  widow-house  for  his  daughter  "  ?  Let  it  state 
a  wedding  or  a  widow  house  for  his  son  or  daughter.  The 
Mishna  incidentally  teaches  us  that  it  is  not  a  good  custom  for 
a  son-in-law  to  dwell  with  his  father-in-law,  as  it  is  written  in 
the  book  of  Ben  Sira:  "I  have  weighed  everything  on  the 
scale  and  did  not  find  a  thing  to  be  lighter  than  bran;  however, 
a  groom  who  resides  in  the  house  of  his  father-in-law  is  lighter 
than  bran,  and  still  lighter  than  he  is  an  invited  guest  who  brings 
with  him  an  uninvited  companion,  and  still  lighter  is  the  one 
who  answers  before  he  has  heard  thoroughly  the  question,  as  it 
is  written  [Prov.  xviii.  13]  :  'When  one  returneth  an  answer 
before  he  understandeth  (the  question),  it  is  a  folly  unto  him 
and  a  shame.'  " 

"  If  one  wishes  to  build  a  stable,"  etc.  Who  said  this?  Ac- 
cording to  some,  R.  Aqiba  himself,  and  he  said  so;  and  although 
this  is  the  size  of  a  stable  for  cattle,  it  nevertheless  happens  that 
human  beings  live  in  such  a  building  (and  as  the  seller  or  the 
contractor  did  not  stipulate  the  size,  the  minimum  may  be 
taken).  Others  say  R.  Ishmael  taught  this  saying:  That  if 
one  wishes  to  build  a  stable,  it  is  the  size  of  four  by  six. 

"Triclinum,"   etc.     There  is  a   Boraitha:    For   a  quantir, 


236  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

twelve  ells  square  is  needed.  What  does  it  mean?  A  fore 
yard  ? 

"An  example  of  this,''  etc.  Who  taught  this?  Some  say 
R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel,  and  it  should  read  thus:  Whence  is 
this  deduced?  Said  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel:  All  must  be 
judged  according  to  the  building  of  the  Temple,  and  some  say 
that  the  first  Tana  taught  an  example  of  it  (and  he  was  about  to 
finish  his  statement  with  "  the  building  of  the  Temple,"  but 
R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  interrupted  him  saying:)  Do  you  want 
to  compare  all  common  buildings  with  the  building  of  the 
Temple;  do  all  people  build  such  buildings? 

We  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha:  Anonymous  teachers  say 
the  height  must  be  not  less  than  the  length  of  the  crossbeams 
of  the  ceiling.  But  why  not  say,  simply,  the  height  must  be 
as  the  width  ?  If  you  wish,  it  may  be  said  that  usually  a  house 
is  wider  at  the  top  than  at  the  bottom;  and  if  you  wish,  it  may 
be  said  that,  because  the  ends  of  the  beams  are  placed  in  the 
enclosures  of  the  wall,  they  are  longer  than  the  width  of  the 
house. 

MISHNA  V. :  If  one  possesses  a  well,  situated  on  the  other 
side  of  his  neighbor's  house  (by  inheritance,  or  even  bought 
from  him  with  a  path),  so  that  when  water  is  needed  he  must 
pass  through  the  house,  he  may  enter  and  leave  at  the  time 
people  usually  enter  and  leave.  However,  he  is  not  allowed  to 
take  his  cattle  to  the  well,  but  he  has  to  take  water  for  them 
outside  of  the  house  and  water  them.  The  owner  of  the  well, 
as  well  as  the  owner  of  the  house,  has  a  right  to  put  a  lock  on  it. 

GEMARA:  A  lock  on  what?  Said  R.  Johanan:  Both 
locks  may  be  put  on  the  well.  It  is  right  that  the  owner  of  the 
well  should  put  a  lock  on  his  well,  so  that  no  one  can  use  the 
water;  but  for  what  purpose  should  the  owner  of  the  house 
put  a  lock  on  it?  Said  R.  Elazar:  Lest  his  neighbor,  while 
passing  his  house  to  the  well  in  his  absence,  should  remain 
alone  with  his  wife. 

MISHNA  VL :  If  one  has  a  garden  inside  of  his  neighbor's 
garden,  he  may  enter  and  leave  only  when  people  are  wont  to 
do  so.  He  must  not  take  buyers  with  him  to  his  garden,  and 
he  also  has  no  right  to  pass  through  his  neighbor's  garden  for 
the  purpose  of  entering  another  field  conjoining  this  one.  when 
he  has  no  business  in  his  own  garden;  and  only  the  owner  of 


TRACT    BABA   BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  227 

the  outside  garden  has  a  right  to  sow  the  path.  If,  however, 
a  path  was  designated  to  him  by  court,  on  the  side,  with  the 
consent  of  both  parties,  then  he  may  enter  and  leave  whenever 
he  pleases  and  may  also  take  with  him  buyers;  however,  the 
right  to  pass  through  to  another  field  is  not  given,  and  neither 
of  them  has  the  right  to  sow  the  path. 

GEMARA:  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said:  If 
one  says,  "  I  sell  you  a  place  of  one  ell  for  digging  a  well  to 
water  your  dry  land,"  it  must  contain  the  width  of  two  ells,  and 
he  also  has  to  add  him  two  ells  from  his  field  to  the  edges  of 
the  well,  on  which  to  erect  walls  to  prevent  the  overflow  of 
the  water ;  and  if  he  said,  "  I  sell  you  an  ell  for  making  a  sewer," 
it  must  be  one  ell  wide  and  one-half  ell  to  each  edge.  But  who 
has  a  right  to  sow  the  edges  (while  the  walls  were  not  as  yet 
made)?  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said:  The  owner 
of  the  field;  and  R.  Nhaman  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said:  The 
owner  of  the  field  may  plant  trees  there,  but  not  sow  it,  as 
by  sowing  he  harms  the  water. 

R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said  again :  If  the  walls 
of  a  channel  fall,  the  owner  of  it  may  repair  it  from  the  material 
of  the  field  upon  which  the  walls  were  placed;  as  certainly  they 
fall  on  the  same  field  where  they  were  placed  (but  the  material 
was  scattered  by  the  wind  all  over  the  field).  R.  Papa,  how- 
ever, opposed,  saying  that  the  owner  of  the  field  may  claim  that 
the  water  of  "  your  well  has  underwashed  the  material  and 
caused  it  to  fall ";  therefore  he  gave  another  reason,  that  such 
a  stipulation  must  have  been  in  existence  when  he  hired  that 
place,  for  otherwise  he  would  not  have  wasted  his  money. 

MISHNA  VII. :  If  there  was  a  public  thoroughfare  through 
one's  field  and  he  took  it  for  himself  and  designated  another 
one  at  the  side  of  his  field,  what  he  has  given  is  considered  the 
public's,  and  to  that  which  he  took  for  himself  he  does  not 
acquire  title.  If  one  sells  a  path  in  his  field  for  a  private  thor- 
oughfare it  must  be  four  ells,  for  the  public  it  must  be  no  less 
than  sixteen.  A  way  for  the  government  has  no  limit.  The 
way  for  carrying  a  corpse  to  the  grave  has  also  no  limit;  how- 
ever, the  space  where  the  people  stand  for  condoling  was  deter- 
mined by  the  judges  of  Ziboras  of  a  space  where  four  kabhs 
may  be  sown. 

GEMARA:  Why  should  he  not  acquire  title  to  that  thor- 


228  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

oughfare  he  took  for  himself,  when  he  designated  another  one 
for  the  public ;  let  him  take  a  stick  with  which  to  drive  off  in- 
truders, or  do  you  want  to  infer  from  this  that  one  cannot  take 
the  law  in  his  own  hands,  even  when  he  suffered  damage?  Said 
R.  Zebid  in  the  name  of  Rabha:  It  is  to  be  feared  that  if  this 
would  be  allowed,  one  would  give  to  the  public  a  crooked  way; 
but  R.  Mesharshia  in  the  name  of  Rabha  said  that  our  Mishna 
treats  of  a  case  wherein  the  ov^^ner  of  the  field  has  designated 
such.  R.  Ashi,  however,  maintains  that  a  way  which  is  placed 
at  one  side  is  considered  crooked,  because  it  is  near  to  one  who 
resides  near  to  this  side,  while  it  is  far  to  him  who  resides  on 
the  other  side,  (and  therefore  he  does  not  acquire  title)  to  that 
which  he  took.  But  let  him  say  to  the  public,  "  take  your  way 
and  return  mine  "  (and  the  Mishna  stites  what  he  has  given  is 
lost).  It  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Eliezer  of  the  following 
Boraitha :  "  R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Eliezer,  if  the 
pubHc  has  chosen  a  way  for  itself,  what  was  done  remains." 
But  may  the  public  be  robbers,  according  to  R.  Eliezer?  Said 
R.  Gid'l  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  He  speaks  in  case  the  public  has 
lost  a  way  in  this  field  (i.e.,  some  time  ago  there  was  a  thorough- 
fare which  afterwards  was  lost).  If  so,  why  then  said  Rabba 
b.  R.  Huna  in  the  name  of  Rabh  that  the  Halakha  does  not  pre- 
vail with  R.  Eliezer?  The  one  who  has  taught  this  statement 
was  not  aware  of  the  other  statement  (i.e.,  R.  Gid'l  does  not 
approve  the  statement  of  Rabba  b.  R.  Huna  in  the  name  of 
Rabh).  But  according  to  Rabba  b.  R.  Huna,  what  is  the  reason 
of  our  Mishna's  statement,  that  of  R.  Jehuda,  who  said  above 
(p.  145)  that  a  path  of  which  the  public  took  charge  must  not 
be  spoiled?  By  which  act  did  the  public  acquire  title  to  the 
thoroughfare,  according  to  R.  Eliezer?  By  passing,  as  we  have 
learned  in  the  following  Boraitha:  If  one  passed  (in  an  owner- 
less field)  on  its  length  and  1)readth  he  acquired  title  to  the 
place  he  has  passed,  so  is  the  decree  of  R.  Eliezer.  The  sages, 
however,  maintain  that  passing  has  no  effect  at  all,  and  title  is 
not  acquired  unless  he  makes  a  hazakah.  Said  R.  Elazar: 
The  reason  of  R.  Eliezer  is  the  following  verse  [Genesis, 
xiii.  17]:  "Arise,  walk  through  the  land  in  the  length  of  it 
and  in  the  breadth  of  it,  for  unto  thee  I  will  give  it."  The 
sages  say  this  cannot  be  taken  for  a  support,  however,  as 
Abraham  was  beloved  by  Heaven,  and  it  was  said  to  him  for 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  229 

the  purpose  of  making  easier  for  his  children  the  subjection  of 
the  land.  Said  R.  Jose  b.  Hanina:  The  sages  admit  to  R. 
Eliezer  in  case  of  a  footpath  between  vineyards,  because  it  was 
made  for  passing,  title  is  also  given  by  passing.  When  such 
a  case  came  before  R.  Itz'hak  b.  Ami  he  decided  that  the  plain- 
tifif  should  get  a  footpath  upon  which  he  should  be  able  to  carry 
a  bundle  of  branches  on  his  shoulders,  which  in  turning  here 
and  there  should  not  touch  the  walls.  But  this  is  said  in  a  case 
wherein  the  places  for  the  walls  are  not  yet  designated;  but  if 
they  were,  the  space  should  be  given  him,  so  as  to  put  one  foot 
after  the  other. 

"  For  a  private,"  etc.  There  is  a  Boraitha :  Anonymous 
teachers  say:  "As  much  as  an  ass  with  its  load  could  pass." 
The  judges  of  the  exile  said :  Two  cubits  and  a  half.  And  R. 
Huna  said :  The  Halakha  prevails  with  them.  But  did  not  R. 
Huna  say  elsewhere  that  the  Halakha  prevails  with  the  anony- 
mous teachers?     The  limit  of  both  is  "  equal." 

"A  public  thoroughfare  is  sixteen  ells."  The  rabbis  taught: 
A  private  way  is  four  ells,  a  way  from  one  city  to  the  other  is 
eight  ells,  a  public  way  is  sixteen  ells,  and  the  way  to  the  cities 
of  refuge  (Num.  xxxv.  11)  thirty-two.  [Said  R.  Huna: 
Whence  is  this  deduced?  From  the  Scripture  (Deut.  xix.  3): 
"  The  way  to  them."  It  should  be  "  a  way,"  and  the  word  "  the  " 
makes  it  double.]  The  way  of  the  government  has  no  limit, 
as  the  king  has  the  right  to  erect  partitions,  houses,  and  no 
one  has  a  right  to  prevent  him,  and  the  way  for  burying  a  corpse 
has  no  limit,  because  of  the  honor  of  the  dead.* 

MISHNA  VIII. :  If  one  sells  a  place  for  digging  a  grave, 
or  an  undertaker  makes  a  grave  for  one,  the  inside  of  the  cave 
must  be  four  by  six,  and  opening  into  it  eight  niches  for 
cofifins,  three  on  each  side  and  two  at  the  top  and  bottom.  The 
length  of  the  niches  is  four  ells,  the  height  seven  spans,  and  the 
width  six.  R.  Simeon,  however,  said:  The  inside  of  the  cave 
must  be  six  by  eight,  the  niches  must  be  thirteen,  four  on  each 
side,  three  on  the  upper  side,  and  one  on  the  right  side  of  the 
door  and  one  on  the  left.  He  also  makes  a  fore  yard  at  the 
mouth  of  the  cave  six  ells  square,  as  much  as  the  cofitin  with 
its  carrier  needs.     He  also  has  to  open  to  this  fore  yard  two 

*  The  continuation  of  the  text  about  graves  and  condolenre,  etc.,  we  have  trans- 
ferred to  Tract  Great  Mourning,  page  60. 


230  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

caves  from  two  sides.  R.  Simeon,  however,  said  four  to  all  its 
four  sides.  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel,  however,  maintains  that  all 
must  be  done  according  to  the  rock  {i.e.,  if  the  earth  is  soft 
more  niches  could  be  made,  but  if  rocky  the  number  must  be 
limited  accordingly). 

GEMARA :  The  two  niches  which  R.  Simeon  requires,  one 
on  the  right  side  of  the  door,  etc.,  how  shall  he  dig  them? 
If  their  length  should  be  dug  from  the  wall  of  the  cave  under  the 
fore  yard,  then  they  will  be  trodden  down ;  furthermore,  there 
is  a  Mishna  to  the  effect  that  one  who  stands  in  the  yard  of  a 
grave  is  clean,  but  if  the  niches  should  be  dug  under  the  yard 
the  one  who  stands  above  would  not  be  clean.  Said  R.  Jose 
b.  R.  Hanina:  He  made  the  niches  like  an  upright  bolt;  i.e., 
placed  the  bodies  in  an  upright  position.  But  did  not  R. 
Johanan  say  that  asses  are  buried  in  like  manner?  According 
to  him,  the  niches  should  be  made  in  the  corners.  But  then 
each  of  them  would  come  in  contact  with  the  other.  Said  R. 
Ashi:  If  he  makes  those  in  the  corners  deeper  (according  to 
R.  Simeon,  who  said  that  four  niches  must  be  on  each  side),  if 
they  were  all  equally  dug  they  would  come  in  contact.  It  must" 
be  said  that  he  digs  some  of  them  deeper,  and  the  same  may  be 
said  here.*  R.  Huna  b.  R.  Jehoshuah,  however,  maintains  that 
he  makes  the  niches  crooked.  (Says  the  Gemara :)  This  state- 
ment does  not  hold,  as  according  to  it  he  would  have  to  make 
eight  inches  in  the  space  of  eleven  and  one-fifth  ells,  which  is 
impossible. t 

*  The  text  is  so  complicated  here  that  the  commentators  have  to  make  many  illus- 
trations, and  after  all  the  matter  is  hardly  understood.  However,  according  to  our 
method  we  could  not  omit  this,  as  it  is  essential  from  the  historical  point  of  view  to 
know  how  these  graves  are  made.     We  have  done  our  best  to  make  it  intelligible. 

f  In  the  text  are  also  mathematical  calculations  by  the  rule  that  one  ell  square 
contains  one  ell  and  two-fifths  when  crooked,  which  is  not  exactly  correct.  We  have 
already  mentioned  this  in  a  foot-note  in  Erubin,  and  therefore  we  have  omitted 
the  whole  discussion  here. 


CHAPTER  VII. 

RULES  AND  REGULATIONS  CONCERNING  ROCKS  AND  PITS  IN  GROUND 
SOLD  ;  THE  QUANTITIES  OF  GREATER  OR  LESS  MEASURE  WHICH 
MAY    OR   MAY    NOT    VOID    A    SALE    OF    FIELDS,    VILLAGES,    ETC, 

MISHNA  /. :  If  one  says:  "  I  sell  you  earth  the  size  where 
one  kur  can  be  sown,  and  there  were  crevices  ten  spans  deep, 
or  rocks  ten  spans  high,  they  are  not  measured,  but  if  less  than 
that  size  they  are  measured.  If,  however,  he  said  to  him, 
"  about  the  size  of  a  kur,"  and  there  were  crevices  or  rocks  even 
more  than  the  size  of  ten  spans,  they  are  measured. 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Itz'hak:  The  statement  of  the  Mishna 
about  rocks  and  crevices  which  are  measured  when  they  are 
less  than  ten  spans  holds  good  only  when  all  of  them  together 
do  not  measure  four  kabhs,  but  not  if  they  do.  Said  R.  Uqba 
b.  Hama:  Even  then  they  are  measured  only  when  they  are 
scattered  within  five  kabhs  space  (but  in  less  they  are  not  meas- 
ured); and  R.  Hyya  b.  Abba  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  says 
that  five  kabhs  do  not  suffice,  and  they  are  measured  only  when 
they  are  scattered  within  the  greater  part  of  the  field,  which  is 
at  least  sixteen  kabhs,  as  a  kur  is  thirty  kabhs;  and  R.  Hyya  b. 
Abba  himself  questioned;  How  is  the  law  according  (to  R. 
Johanan's  theory)  if  the  greater  part  of  the  rocks  in  question 
were  scattered  within  the  smaller  part  of  the  field,  and  the 
smaller  part  of  them  within  the  larger  part  of  the  field  (and  if 
altogether  they  measured  four  kabhs)?  These  questions  are 
not  decided.* 

There  is  a  Boraitha:  '*  If  there  were  a  single  rock  (but  it 
bears  a  separate  name ;  e.g.,  '  the  west  rock  ')  even  if  of  less  than 
ten  spans,  it  is  not  measured;  and  also  if  the  rock  were  placed 


*  In  the  text  are  some  other  questions  :  If  the  rocks  were  placed  round,  or  square, 
etc.;  and  these  need  many  illustrations,  and  all  remain  at  last  undecided.  As  they 
are  of  no  importance,  we  have  omitted  them. 

231 


232  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

near  to  the  boundary,  whatever  size  it  may  be  it  is  not 
measured."  * 

MISHNA  //. :  "  I  sell  you  earth  of  the  size  wherein 
a  kur  can  be  sown,  measured  with  a  line."  If  there  were  a 
trifle  less,  he  may  deduct ;  if  a  trifle  more,  the  buyer  has  to  return 
it.  If,  however,  the  seller  says  "  about  this  size,  a  little  more  or 
less,"  even  if  there  were  less  than  a  quarter  of  a  kabh  on  each 
saah,  the  sale  is  valid;  but  if  it  were  more  than  that  size,  an 
account  must  be  taken.  In  case  the  buyer  has  to  make  return, 
it  shall  be  in  money ;  however,  if  he  wishes  to  return  him  land, 
he  may  do  so.  And  why  was  it  said  that  the  buyer  should  re- 
turn the  seller  money?  To  favor  the  seller,  so  that  if  there 
were  a  trifle  more  the  buyer  should  not  have  the  right  to  return 
him  this  trifle,  which  the  seller  could  not  use;  but  if  there  were 
a  kabh  and  a  half  more  than  the  prescribed  size,  it  means  in  the 
case  of  nine  kabhs  of  land  in  a  field  and  a  half  kabh  in  a  garden, 
and  according  to  R.  Aqiba  even  a  quarter  of  a  kabh,  then  the 
buyer  may  return  the  land,  and  not  only  the  land  which  is  in 
excess  of  the  prescribed  size,  but  even  that  of  this  prescribed 
size  itself  is  to  be  returned  with  the  other. 

GEMARA :  The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question :  If  the 
seller  said  "  the  size  of  a  kur,"  without  any  addition,  how  is  the 
law?  Come  and  hear.  If  the  seller  says,  "  I  sell  you  an  estate 
the  size  of  a  kur,"  or  "  about  the  size  of  a  kur,  a  little  less  or 
more,  I  sell  you,"  and  thereafter  it  were  found  a  quarter  of  a 
kabh  less  or  more  to  a  saah,  the  sale  is  valid.  Hence  we  see 
that  even  if  he  does  not  add  to  the  words  "  the  size  of  a  kur," 
it  is  the  same  as  if  he  would  say  "  about."  Nay,  the  Boraitha 
is  to  be  explained  thus:  The  last  part  of  the  Boraitha  explains 
the  first  part.  If  one  says.  "  I  sell  you  of  the  size  of  a  kur," 
"  about "  is  to  be  understood  in  case  he  should  add  a  trifle  less 
or  more.  R.  Ashi  objected:  If  this  were  so,  why  the  repetition 
"  I  sell  you,  I  sell  you  "?  Therefore  the  Boraitha  is  to  be  ex- 
plained as  above,  that  the  size  of  a  kur  means  "  about,"  and 
so  it  is. 

"  It  shall  be  in  money."  We  see  from  this  that  the  advantage 
of  the  seller  and  not  the  buyer  is  taken  into  consideration;  but 

*  The  text  contains  que=tioi)s  of  no  importance — e.^^.,  if  the  rocks  were  placed 
round,  crooked,  etc. — which  remain  undecided.  We  have  therefore  omitted  the  whole 
discussion. 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  233 

valid  ?  If,  however,  the  estate  is  larger,  the  court  compels  both 
the  seller  to  sell  and  the  buyer  to  buy;  hence  we  see  that  the 
advantage  of  both  is  taken  into  consideration?  {I.e.,  that  even 
have  we  not  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha:  If  there  were 
less  or  more  than  seven  kabhs  and  a  half  on  a  kur,  the  sale  is 
if  the  seller  insists  that  the  excess  should  be  returned  to  him, 
he  is  not  to  be  listened  to  if  it  is  an  advantage  for  the  buyer  to 
have  it.)  The  Boraitha  treats  that  at  the  time  it  was  found  over 
the  prescribed  size,  the  estate  was  lower  in  price  and  the  seller 
willing  to  sell.  Therefore  we  say  to  the  buyer,  "  You  may 
reckon  it  at  the  existing  price,"  and  the  same  is  said  to  the 
seller,  *'  If  you  do  not  wish  the  estate  to  be  returned  to  you,  you 
must  accept  the  existing  price."  But  have  we  not  learned  in 
another  Boraitha  that  if  the  buyer  compensates  the  seller,  he 
must  reckon  at  the  previous  rate?  That  Boraitha  speaks  that 
when  the  reverse  was  the  case,  the  price  was  low  at  the  time 
of  the  sale  and  became  higher  after  it  was  known  that  there  was 
an  excess  over  the  prescribed  size. 

"  It  means  in  the  case  of  nine  kabhs,"  etc.  Said  R.  Huna : 
This  applies  even  in  a  valley  which  is  of  more  than  ten  kurs. 
R.  Na'hman,  however,  says  seven  and  a  half  to  each  kur;  but 
if  there  were  a  kabh  and  a  half  more  (which  counts  nine  kabhs) 
even  to  one  kur,  all  must  be  returned,  even  if  to  the  other  kurs 
the  addition  were  not  over  the  prescribed  size.  Rabha  objected 
R.  Na'hman  from  our  Mishna,  which  states  that  if  he  left  nine 
kabhs  in  a  field,  etc.  Does  not  the  Mishna  mean  at  least  two 
kurs  as  the  size  of  the  usual  field?  Nay,  it  means  one  kur. 
Farther  on,  in  a  garden,  a  half  of  a  kabh  is  given  as  the  mini- 
mum of  excess.  Does  it  not  mean  at  least  two  saahs,  as  usually 
a  garden  is  called  of  that  size?  Nay,  it  means  one  saah,  and  ac- 
cording to  R.  Aqiba  one  quarter.  Does  it  not  mean,  if  the  gar- 
den was  a  saah?  Nay,  it  means  if  it  was  half  a  saah.  R.  Ashi 
questioned :  If  one  sold  a  field,  and  afterwards,  but  before  the 
money  was  paid,  it  became  a  garden,  and  there  were  found 
more  than  a  quarter  to  a  saah,  but  it  should  not  reach  the  size 
of  nine  kabhs  or  vice  versa,  how  should  the  prescribed  size  be 
reckoned — as  that  of  a  field  or  that  of  a  garden  ?  This  question 
remains  undecided. 

There  is  a  Boraitha :  "  If  the  estate  over  the  prescribed  size 
sold  was  conjoined  with  the  other  estate  of  the  seller,  even  if 


234  'I'HE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

that  were  but  a  trifle,  the  buyer  has  to  return  the  seller  the 
estate."  R.  Ashi  questioned:  How  is  the  law  if  there  were  a 
well  between  this  estate  sold  and  the  other  estate  of  the  seller, 
a  channel,  a  public  thoroughfare,  or  a  row  of  trees,  should  these 
constitute  lines  of  demarcation  or  not?  This  question  remains 
undecided. 

"  And  not  only  the  land  zvhich  is  in  excess;'  etc.  How  is  this 
CO  be  understood?  Taught  Rabhin  b.  R.  Na'hman:  Not  only 
that  which  was  over  the  prescribed  size  the  buyer  returns  the 
seller,  but  all  the  quarters  to  each  kur,  although  the  rest  be  not 
over  the  prescribed  size,  he  must  return. 

MISHNA  ///. :  "  I  sell  you  the  estate  with  a  measurement, 
a  trifle  more  or  less."  The  last  words,  "  more  or  less,"  nullify 
those  preceding  them.  "  I  sell  you  a  trifle  more  or  less  to  be 
measured  with  a  line."  The  last  words  here  nullify  the  preced- 
ing ones  (and  the  seller  must  give  the  purchaser  a  just  measure- 
ment; so  that  if  the  land  were  in  excess,  the  excess  must  be  re- 
turned, and  if  less  the  seller  must  supply  the  deficiency),  such 
is  the  decree  of  ben  Nanas. 

GEMARA :  Said  R.  Abba  b.  Mamal  in  the  name  of  Rabh : 
"  The  colleagues  of  ben  Nanas  differ  with  him."  What  came 
he  to  teach  us?  Have  we  not  learned  in  the  Middle  Gate, 
p.  269,  Mishna  8,  that  it  happened  in  Ci])horius  that  one  rented 
a  bath-house  for  twelve  golden  dinars  a  year?  The  payment 
was  to  be  one  dinar  monthly;  and  thereafter  the  year  was  made 
intercalary.  When  the  case  came  before  R.  Simeon  b.  Gama- 
liel and  R.  Jose  they  decided  that  the  payment  for  the  inter- 
calated time  should  be  made  at  the  same  rate  as  for  the  ordinary 
time.  If  from  that  Mishna  one  says  that  the  last  words,  "  one 
dinar  monthly,"  are  to  be  interpreted  as  a  retraction  of  the  first 
words,  "  twelve  a  year,"  the  ln5-.t  words.  "  a  dinar  monthly." 
may  also  be  interpreted  as  explaining  the  former,  "  twelve  a 
year"  (over  which  the  sages  dififercd  with  ben  Nanas);  how- 
ever, here,  in  that  the  last  words  cannot  be  interpreted  as  an 
explanation,  but  as  a  retraction  of  the  former,  the  sages  agree 
with  him.  He  comes  to  teach  us  that  they  differ  also  in  this 
case.  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said :  This  which  is 
taught  in  our  Mishna  is  in  the  words  of  ben  Nanas.  but  the 
sages  say  that  the  shorter  expression  must  always  have  the 
greater  weight  {i.e.,  "  with  n  measurement  "  is  shorter  than  '  a 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  235 

trifle  less  or  more  "),  no  matter  whether  the  shorter  phrase  were 
said  before  or  after  the  longer  one.  Says  the  Gemara:  Shall 
we  assume  that  with  the  expression  "  this  "  Samuel  meant  to 
say  that  he  himself  does  not  agree  with  him?  Do  not  both 
Rabh  and  Samuel  say  (p.  188)  that  if  one  said  "  a  kur  for 
thirty  selas,"  he  may  retract  even  at  the  last  saah;  and  if  he 
added  each  saah  for  one  sela,  to  all  which  was  measured  title  is 
acquired,  which  corresponds  with  the  decision  of  ben  Nanas? 
Therefore  we  must  say  that  he  meant  to  say  "  this,"  and  I  agree 
therewith.  But  is  that  so?  Did  not  Samuel  say  (Middle  Gate, 
p.  270) :  "  The  decision  was  so  made  .  .  ."  but  if  they 
had  appeared  in  the  beginning,  would  it  be  entirely  the  own- 
er's: and  if  in  the  end,  the  renter's?  (This,  at  all  events, 
cannot  correspond  with  ben  Nanas'  decision.)  Therefore  it 
must  be  said  again  that  by  the  word  "  this  "  he  means  that  "  I 
do  not  agree,"  and  the  reason  of  his  decision  in  the  case  of  each 
saah  for  selah  is  because  that  which  was  measured  is  consid- 
ered already  in  his  hands,  and  the  same  is  the  case  with  the 
rent  for  the  intercalary  month;  if  at  the  end  of  the  month,  it 
belongs  to  the  renter,  because  it  is  already  in  his- hand.  R. 
Huna  said:  It  was  said  in  the  college  of  Rabh:  If  one  said: 
"  I  sell  this  to  you  for  an  istra  a  hundred  moaJis,  he  must  give 
him  a  hundred  moahs;  but  if  he  says  a  hundred  moahs  an 
istra  he  has  to  give  him  an  istra  although  it  is  less  in  value  than 
a  hundred  moahs." 

What  came  he  to  teach  us — that  the  last  expression  must  be 
considered?  Has  not  Rabh  said  this  already  concerning  the 
case  of  the  cited  Mishna  (page  270) :  "  If  I  were  there,  I  should 
give  it  to  the  owner  of  the  house "  (and  that  is  because 
the  last  words  were  "  a  dinar  monthly  ")  ?  Lest  one  should  say 
that  in  one  case  the  last  words  ("  hundred  moahs,"  or  vice 
versa)  are  to  be  considered  as  an  explanation  to  the  first  words, 
he  comes  to  teach  us  that  it  is  not  so. 

MISHNA  IV. :  If  one  says,  "  I  sell  you  this  estate,  the  size 
of  a  kur,  with  its  marks  and  boundaries;"  and  afterwards  it 
were  found  that  the  size  is  less  than  stipulated — if  it  were  less 
than  a  sixth  of  the  whole  size,  the  sale  is  valid ;  but  if  there  were 
a  sixth  wanting,  the  buyer  iriay  deduct  from  the  payment. 

GEMARA :  It  was  taught :  R.  Huna  and  R.  Jehudah  differ 
in  the  explanation  of  our  Mishna.     According  to  the  former 


236  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

the  Mishna  means  that  an  exact  sixth  should  be  considered  as 
less  than  a  sixth,  and  the  Mishna  is  to  be  explained  thus: 
"  With  less  than  a  sixth  wanting,  a  sixth  inclusive,  the  sale  is 
valid."  If,  however,  more  than  a  sixth  is  wanting,  it  may  be 
deducted.  According  to  R.  Jehudah  the  Mishna  means  that 
an  exact  sixth  is  to  be  considered  as  more,  and  it  is  to  be  ex- 
plained thus:  "  With  less  than  a  sixth  wanting  the  sale  is  valid; 
a  sixth,  however,  or  more  wanting  is  to  be  deducted." 

An  objection  was  raised  from  the  following  Tosephtha: 
"  With  its  marks  and  boundaries,  and  there  was  a  sixth  less  or 
a  sixth  more,  it  parallels  a  case  wherein  the  court  appraises  an 
estate,  and  the  sale  is  valid."  Now  we  know  that  in  a  case 
wherein  the  court  appraises,  if  there  were  an  error  as  to  an 
exact  sixth,  it  is  considered  as  if  it  were  more,  and  the  appraise- 
ment is  void;  hence  this  contradicts  R.  Huna?  R.  Huna  may- 
say  that  there  is  no  contradiction,  as  the  Tosephtha  ends  with 
the  words  "  the  sale  is  valid,"  and  if  this  paralleled  the  case 
wherein  the  court  appraises,  how  could  it  be  valid  in  case  there 
were  more  than  a  sixth?  Does  not  the  law  provide  that  in  the 
case  of  an  error  of  the  court  in  more  than  a  sixth,  the  appraise- 
ment is  void?  It  must  be  said  then  that  it  is  parallel  in  one 
respect  but  not  in  the  other;  and  it  is  to  be  explained  thus: 
It  parallels  the  case  wherein  the  court  appraises  with  an  error 
of  less  than  a  sixth  (which  does  not  afTect  the  appraisement),  but 
it  does  not  parallel  the  case  in  which  the  error  of  the  court  is 
of  a  sixth  or  more  and  affects  the  appraisement,  which  differs 
from  our  case,  as  the  purchaser  has  only  to  deduct  the  money 
value  of  the  deficiency,  while  the  sale  is  still  valid.* 

R.  Papa  bought  an  estate  from  some  one  who  told  him 
that  it  measured  the  size  of  twenty  saahs.  After  it  was  meas- 
ured it  was  found  that  there  were  only  fifteen;  and  the  case 
came  before  Abayi,  who  decided  that  the  sale  was  valid,  because 
the  seller  had  used  the  qualifying  words  "  as  you  see  its  marks 
and  boundaries."  But  have  we  not  learned  that  if  there  were 
more  than  a  sixth  lacking  its  value  is  to  be  deducted,  and  here 
there  is  a  fourth  part?  In  the  first  case  the  condition  is  not 
known  to  the  buyer  before  the  sale;  but  in  the  latter  case,  as  the 
condition  was  known  to  R.  Papa  and  he  saw  it  at  the  time  he 

*  We  are  compelled  to  explain  this  in  accordance  with  R.  Gofshom,  as  Rashbam's 
explanation  is  still  more  complicated. 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA    (LAST   GATE).  237 

bought,  it  must  be  supposed  that  he  had  considered  and  ac- 
cepted it.  Rejoined  R.  Papa:  But  did  he  not  tell  me  that  it 
measured  twenty  ?  He  probably  meant  to  say  that  "  these  fif- 
teen are  better  than  twenty  elsewhere." 

There  is  a  Boraitha:  R.Jose  said:  "  Some  brothers  divided 
their  inheritance  by  lot,  and  when  to  each  of  them  his  lot  fell, 
all  of  them  acquired  title  to  their  shares."  Why  so?  Said 
R.  Elazar:  At  the  time  the  land  of  Israel  was  allotted  to  the 
tribes.  But  was  there  not  also  the  Urim  v'tumim,  as  it  is  said 
farther  on  that  the  high  priest  Elazar  had  on  the  Urim  v'tumim, 
and  then  the  lots  were  cast  ?  Said  R.  Ashi :  By  their  arrange- 
ment prior  to  allotment  (whereby  the  estate  was  divided  into 
shares  of  equal  value)  they  had  prepared  themselves  that  each 
should  acquire  title  to  the  share  which  the  lot  should  cast  for 
him,  and  therefore  no  other  ceremony  was  necessary. 

It  was  taught :  To  two  brothers  who  had  divided  their  in- 
heritance between  them  came  a  third  brother  (of  whose  exist- 
ence they  were  not  previously  aware).  Their  division  is  null 
and  void  according  to  Rabh.  Samuel,  however,  maintains  that 
each  of  the  two  must  reHnquish  a  third  of  his  inheritance  to  the 
third  brother  (e.g.,  they  inherited  six  fields,  and  each  of  them 
must  give  one  of  these  to  the  newcomer,  so  that  the  three 
brothers  may  have  two  fields  apiece).  Said  Rabha  to  R. 
Na'hman :  According  to  Rabh,  who  says  that  the  division  is 
null  and  void,  it  must  be  said  he  holds  that  since  all  of  them  did 
not  share  in  the  first  division,  the  inheritance  must  be  redivided. 
Would  the  same  be  the  case  with  three  partners,  two  of  whom 
have  divided  (in  the  presence  of  three  persons  who  are  consid- 
ered a  Beth  Din)  in  the  absence  of  the  third  one,  and  there  is 
a  decision  (Middle  Gate,  p.  74)  that  such  holds  good?  The 
cases  are  dissimilar.  In  the  latter  case  the  partners  divided  the 
property  into  three  shares,  and  as  it  was  done  in  the  presence 
of  a  Beth  Din  the  division  holds  good;  but  in  the  former  case 
the  two  brothers  had  divided  the  inheritance  into  two  parts 
only,  as  they  were  unaware  of  the  third  brother's  existence. 

Said  R.  Papa  to  Abayi :  According  to  Samuel's  decision  that 
the  first  division  is  valid,  it  must  be  said  he  holds  that  such  an 
act,  done  in  accordance  with  the  law,  must  not  be  abrogated, 
although  thereafter  it  appears  that  the  brothers  took  more  than 
belonged  to  them;  but  did  not  both  Rabh  and  Samuel  say:  If 


338  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

one  says,  "  I  sell  you  a  kur  for  thirty  selas,"  the  seller  may  re- 
tract even  at  the  last  saah  (above,  p.  235)  ?  (We  see  then  that 
even  when  done  in  accordance  with  the  law  an  act  may  still  be 
abrogated.)  There  is,  however,  here  a  difference.  The  rabbis 
enacted  that  law  to  please  both  the  seller  and  the  buyer.  {I.e., 
in  case  the  price  should  become  lower,  before  the  buyer  has  re- 
ceived the  property,  it  is  to  his  advantage  to  retract;  and  in 
case  the  price  becomes  higher,  the  advantage  is  for  the  seller. 
Hence  this  law  is  beneficial  to  both.) 

It  was  taught :  If  brothers  divided  their  inheritance  and  a 
creditor  of  their  father  came  and  took  aw^ay  the  share  of  one 
of  them,  according  to  Rabh  the  former  division  is  null  and  void. 
Samuel,  however,  said  that  such  w^as  this  brother's  lot,  and  it 
did  not  concern  the  other.  R.  Assi,  however,  maintains,  not  as 
Rabh,  that  the  division  is  void,  and  they  must  divide  the  re- 
mainder, and  not  as  Samuel,  that  it  does  not  at  all  concern  the 
other  one;  but  that  the  second  brother  must  surrender  one 
quarter  of  his  estate  and  a  quarter  of  the  money  he  has  inherited. 
Rabh  holds  that  the  heirs,  even  after  their  division,  are  still  to 
be  considered  heirs  (hence  if  one  of  them  has  lost  the  property 
through  his  father's  debt,  he  is  still  an  heir  to  the  remainder), 
while  Samuel  holds  that  at  the  time  they  divide  they  are  con- 
sidered buyers  (each  of  them  buying  his  share  of  his  brother) 
without  any  security;  and  consequently  each  has  no  further 
concern  after  the  division.  R.  Assi  was  doubtful  whether  they 
are  to  be  considered  heirs  of  buyers;  therefore  the  half  w-hich 
ought  to  be  taken  from  the  one  who  did  not  suffer  loss  is  con- 
sidered doubtful  money,  and  there  is  a  rule  that  doubtful  money 
is  to  be  divided.  Said  R.  Papa :  The  Halakha  concerning  the 
two  cases,  that  of  the  third  brother  as  well  as  that  W'herein  the 
share  of  one  w^as  taken  away  by  their  father's  creditor,  prevails 
in  accordance  wath  Samuel,  w'ho  says  the  division  holds  good, 
and  it  is  for  them  to  divide  from  their  shares  in  payment  of 
the  debt.  Amimar,  however,  said:  The  Halakha  prevails  in 
accordance  with  Rabh,  who  said  that  the  division  is  void  and 
the  property  must  be  redivided,  and  so  the  Halakha  prevails. 

The  rabbis  taught:  If  there  are  three  w^ho  have  qualified 
as  a  Beth  Din  to  appraise  the  estate  of  one  deceased,  for  the 
support  of  his  widow  and  daughters,  and  if  one  says  that  in 
his  opinion  the  estate  is  worth  twenty-five  selas  (a  rnoanah  of 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  239 

100  zuz),  and  the  two  others  say  two  hundred  or  vice  versa, 
the  opinion  of  the  individual  is  of  no  effect;  but  if  one  appraises 
the  estate  at  one  hundred  zuz,  which  are  twenty-five  selas,  the 
second  for  twenty,  and  the  third  for  thirty,  the  value  is  fixed 
at  one  hundred  zuz.  R.  EHezer  b.  R.  Zadok,  however,  says 
that  it  should  be  taken  for  ninety  zuz,  and  anonymous  teachers 
say  that  a  third  of  the  difference  between  the  second  and  third 
valuations  must  be  added  to  the  second,  which  will  give  93  >^ 
zuz.  The  reason  of  him  who  says  the  estate  is  worth  one  hun- 
dred zuz  is  that  the  opinion  of  the  arbitrator  is  to  be  taken  into 
consideration,  and  the  reason  for  R.  Eliezer's  opinion  that  the 
estate  is  worth  ninety  zuz  is  that  he  who  appraised  it  at  eighty 
underestimated  by  ten  zuz,  while  he  who  appraised  it  at  100 
overestimated  by  ten  zuz,  and  as  there  is  a  majority  who  ap- 
praised it  at  not  more  than  100  zuz,  the  third,  who  appraised 
it  at  twent}^  zuz  over  a  moah,  is  not  to  be  taken  into  considera- 
tion at  all.  Why  not  say  that  the  one  who  said  100  zuz  has 
underestimated  by  ten  and  he  who  says  thirty  has  overestimated 
by  ten,  and  the  estate  should  therefore  be  valued  at  100?  Be- 
cause the  majority  declare  it  not  worth  more  than  100  zuz, 
or  one  moah.  The  anonymous  teachers  maintain  that  the 
estate  is  worth  931^  zuz,  because  the  one  who  estimated  its  value 
at  twenty  selas  (eighty  zuz)  underestimated  by  13 K-  and  the 
one  who  said  100  zuz  overestimated  by  13^^,  although  he  had 
intended  to  say  103K  zuz.  but  thought  he  would  not  like  to 
make  his  difference  too  large.  And  why  not  say  that  the  one 
who  said  thirty  selas  (120  zuz)  has  overestimated  by  thirteen, 
and  the  estimate  should  be  fixed  at  113  zuz?  The  opinion  of 
the  majority  that  the  estate  is  not  worth  over  a  moah  is  to  be 
taken  into  consideration.  Said  R.  Huna:  The  Halakha  pre- 
vails with  the  anonymous  teachers.  Said  R.  Ashi :  The  reason 
of  the  anonymous  teachers  is  not  acceptable;  should  we  decide 
according  to  them?  There  is  a  Boraitha  that  the  judges  of  the 
exile  are  in  accordance  with  the  anonymous  teachers,  and  R. 
Huna  said  again  that  so  the  Halakha  prevails,  but  R.  Ashi  ob- 
jected again  for  the  same  reason  stated  above. 

MISHNA  V. :  If  one  says  "  I  sell  you  the  half  of  the  field  " 
(the  half  of  the  value  is  meant),  the  better  one  against  the  in- 
ferior is  to  be  appraised,  and  the  seller  has  a  right  to  give  the 
buyer  the  latter.     The  same  is  the  case  when  he  said  '*  I  sell  you 


240  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

the  southern  half  of  this  field,"  and  the  buyer  takes  the  half 
determined  on  by  the  seller.  The  seller,  however,  has  to  give 
space  for  a  partition,  and  for  a  large  and  a  small  ditch.  What 
is  the  breadth  of  a  large  ditch?  Six  spans.  And  of  a  small 
one?     Three. 

GEMARA:  Said  R.  Hyya  b.  R.  Abba  in  the  name  of  R. 
Johanan:  The  buyer  has  to  take  the  inferior.  And  he  (when 
he  heard  this  statement  from  R.  Johanan)  said  to  him:  Do€S 
not  the  Mishna  say  ''  the  better  one  against  the  inferior  is  to 
be  appraised  "  ?  And  should  not  this  be  explained  to  mean  that 
each  of  them  should  take  half  of  both  good  and  inferior?  And 
he  answered :  It  seems  to  me  that  you  have  eaten  too  many 
dates  in  Babylon  (so  that  you  have  no  time  to  descend  into  the 
depths  of  the  Mishna).  Does  not  the  Mishna  contain  the  same 
expression,  in  the  latter  part,*  concerning  the  sale  of  the  south 
side  of  his  field?  And  why  the  repetition?  It  should  read 
"  he  should  take  a  half  at  the  south  side,"  and  we  would  under- 
stand it  to  mean  half  of  the  size.  We  must  then  say  that  it  is 
repeated  to  teach  that  also  in  that  case  the  half  of  the  value  is 
meant,  as  the  same  was  in  the  first  part. 

"  The  partition,"  etc.  There  is  a  Boraitha :  "  The  large  ditch 
must  be  outside  and  the  small  one  inside  of  the  field,  but  both 
beyond  the  partition,  so  that  beasts  may  not  jump  over  the 
partition  in  the  field."  Why  then  the  small  ditch?  Does  not 
the  large  one  sufifice  for  this  purpose?  Because  it  is  six 
spans  wide,  the  beasts  could  enter  in  it  and  jump  over.  But 
does  not  the  small  ditch  suffice?  Because  it  is  small,  the  beasts 
could  stand  on  the  edge  of  it  and  jump  over.  And  how  much 
shall  the  space  be  between  the  large  and  the  small  ditch  ?  One 
span. 

*  The  Mishna  repeats  the  same  language  concerning   the  southern  part  which 
we,  according  to  the  sense,  have  translated  "  the  same  is  the  case." 


CHAPTER  VIII. 

RULES  AND  REGULATIONS  CONCERNING  BEQUESTS  TO  AND  INHERI- 
TANCE BV  NEAR  AND  DISTANT  RELATIVES,  MALE  AND  FEMALE 
SLAVES  AND  THEIR  DESCENDANTS,  FIRST-BORN  AND  HUSBANDS. 
ONE  MAY  OR  MAY  NOT  WISH  TO  BEQUEATH  HIS  ESTATE  TO 
STRANGERS  WHEN  HE  HAS  CHILDREN.  WHICH  WILLS  MUST  BE 
CONSIDERED  AND  WHICH  WILLS  MUST  NOT.  THE  DIVIDING  OF 
AN  INHERITANCE  BETWEEN  GROWN-UP  AND  MINOR  CHILDREN, 
MALE    AND    FEMALE. 

MISHNA  /. :  (Concerning  inheritance,  there  is  a  difference 
between  relatives.)  There  are  those  that  bequeath  at  their 
death,  and  also  inherit  at  the  death  of  their  relatives.  There 
are  those  who  inherit  but  do  not  bequeath,  and  also  those  who 
neither  bequeath  nor  inherit.  The  father,  his  children,  and  also 
the  brothers  of  the  father  may  both  bequeath  and  inherit  to 
and  from  each  other.  The  son  from  his  mother,  and  the  hus- 
band from  his  wife,  and  also  the  children  of  sisters  inherit,  but 
the  former  do  not  bequeath  to  the  latter.  The  woman  to  her 
children,  her  husband,  and  her  brothers  bequeaths,  but  does  not 
inherit  from  them.  The  brothers  of  the  mother,  however, 
neither  bequeath  to  nor  inherit  from  her. 

GEMARA:  Why  does  the  Mishna  mention  the  father  his 
sons  first?  It  does  so,  first,  because  the  reverse  order  would 
imply  a  curse,  and  usually  the  beginning  must  not  be  with  a 
curse  (for  when  the  son  dies  before  his  father  it  is  certainly  a 
curse),  and,  secondly,  the  Scripture  [Numbers,  xxvii.  8]  reads, 
"  If  a  man  die  and  have  no  son,"  etc.;  hence  the  death  of  the 
father  is  mentioned  first.  The  Tana  of  the  Mishna  does  thus 
because  the  law  that  a  father  shall  inherit  from  his  son  is  not 
written  in  the  Scripture  but  is  deduced  (as  will  be  explained 
farther  on)  and  he  desires  to  mention  it  first.  Whence  do  they 
deduce  it?  From  the  following  Boraitha:  "  (It  is  written)  '  his 
kinsman  means  the  father,  from  which  it  is  deduced  that  if 
one  dies  and  leaves  brothers  and  a  father,  the  father  is  the  heir 
and  not  the  brothers';  but  lest  one  say  that  the  father  of  the 

241 


242  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

deceased  is  preferred  to  his  son,  it  is  written  '  that  is  next  to 
him,'  which  means,  whoever  is  nearest,  and  the  son  to  his  father 
is  considered  nearer  than  a  father  to  his  son.  And  what  is  the 
reason  that  you  exclude  the  brother  and  include  the  son?  Be- 
cause the  Scripture  has  substituted  the  son  for  the  father  in  the 
case  of  a  man  servant  [Ex.  xxi.  9]  and  also  in  that  concerning 
the  possession  of  a  field  [Levit.  xxv.  13],  of  which  it  is  said 
elsewhere  that  only  when  the  son  has  redeemed  the  field  sancti- 
fied by  his  father,  it  may  be  returned  in  the  jubilee  year,  but 
not  if  the  father's  brother  or  any  other  relative  has  done  so. 
But  why  not  say  that  the  brother  shall  have  the  preference, 
as  he  inherits  from  his  brother  in  case  the  latter  dies  childless 
[Deut.  xxv.  5]  ?  This  cannot  hold  good,  as  the  brother  thus 
inherits  only  if  there  is  no  son;  but  if  there  is  a  son  the  brother 
does  not  inherit."  Is  it  only  for  this  reason,  and  if  it  were  other- 
wise would  the  brother  be  the  heir?  May  the  son  be  substi- 
tuted for  his  father  in  the  two  cases  above  stated,  and  the 
brother  in  the  one  case  only?  Nay,  the  same  reason  is  given  in 
the  case  of  the  above-mentioned  possession  of  a  field,  wherein 
the  son  is  preferred  to  the  brother,  also  because  the  brother 
inherits  only  when  there  is  no  son.  But  why  not  say  a  kins- 
man means  the  father,  from  which  we  infer  that  he  is  preferred 
to  his  daughter?  Lest  one  say  that  he  is  preferred  to  his  son 
also,  therefore  it  is  written,  "  who  is  next  to  him,"  and  a  son 
is  nearer  to  his  father  than  the  father  to  his  son.  As  said  above, 
this  could  be  opposed  thus :  Let  us  see !  If  one  dies  and  leaves  a 
daughter,  it  is  the  same  concerning  Yeboom  as  if  he  should 
leave  a  son.  Hence  we  see  that  a  son  and  daughter  are  here 
equal  before  the  law,  and  the  same  equality  would  obtain  con- 
cerning inheritance.  But  why  not  infer  from  this  that  the 
father  has  the  preference  over  Jiis  brother?  And  lest  one  say  that 
he  should  have  the  preference  over  the  brothers  of  the  deceased 
also,  it  is  written  "  the  next,"  and  brothers  are  considered  nearei 
than  the  father  to  his  son.  It  is  not  necessary  that  the  father's 
brother  be  considered  as  excluded  in  the  Scripture,  as  that 
would  be  contrary  to  common  sense.  What  is  the  basis  for  the 
inheritance  of  the  uncle  of  the  deceased  from  his  nephew,  if 
not  that  his  brother  is  the  father  of  the  deceased;  and  when  the 
father  is  still  alive,  why  should  the  brother  be  the  heir? 

But  let  us  see.     The  passage  in  the  Scripture  does  not  corre- 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  24J! 

spond  with  all  that  is  taught  above  [Num.  xxvii.  8],  "If  a 
man  die  and  have  no  son,  then  shall  ye  cause  the  inheritance 
to  pass  unto  his  daughter,  and  if  he  have  no  daughter  .  .  . 
unto  his  brothers  .  .  .  and  if  no  brothers,  unto  his  father's 
brothers,  and  if  ...  no  brothers,  ...  to  the  kins- 
man." (Hence  when  the  kinsman  is  mentioned  at  the  end,  how 
can  you  say  that  it  means  the  father,  who  is  the.  first  in  case 
the  deceased  left  no  son?)  The  passages  are  not  written  in 
order,  as  the  kinsman,  meaning  the  father,  should  be  mentioned 
first,  but  the  Scripture  relies  upon  the  words  "  who  is  next  to 
him,"  and  it  is  for  the  court  to  decide  who  is  nearest  to  him. 
The  following  Tana,  however,  deduces  it  from  the  same  passage 
in  another  manner,  as  we  have  learned  in  the  following  Bo- 
raitha :  R.  Ishmael  said :  "  It  is  written,  '  If  a  man  die  and  have 
no  son,  then  ye  shall  cause  his  inheritance  to  pass,'  etc.  Infer 
from  this  that  you  transfer  the  inheritance  from  the  father  only 
when  the  deceased  left  a  daughter,  but  not  when  he  left 
brothers."  But  why  not  say  that  the  daughter  transfers  the 
inheritance  from  his  brothers  but  not  from  his  father?  Because 
if  it  were  so,  the  passage  would  read  "  and  ye  shall  give  the 
inheritance,"  and  not  "  ye  shall  cause  to  pass,"  which  means  that 
if  there  is  a  daughter,  her  father  may  pass  the  inheritance  to  her, 
even  when  his  own  father  is  still  alive.  Now,  what  does  kins- 
man mean  in  the  opinion  of  R.  Ishmael,  who  has  deduced  this 
from  the  words  "  ye  shall  cause  to  pass  "  ?  That  which  the 
following  Boraitha  states :  "  His  kinsman  means  his  wife.  De- 
duce from  this  that  the  husband  inherits  from  his  wife."  But 
to  him  who  infers  this  from  the  word  kinsman,  what  do  the 
words  "ye  shall  cause  to  pass"  mean?  That  which  we  have 
learned  in  the  following  Boraitha :  Rabbi  said :  In  all  the  pas- 
sages it  is  written  "  shall  ye  give,"  and  only  concerning  the 
daughter  "  ye  shall  pass,"  to  show  that  there  is  no  one  who  shall 
pass  an  inheritance  to  another  tribe  except  a  daughter;  so  if 
she  marries  one  of  another  tribe,  her  son  or  her  husband  may 
inherit  from  her. 

But,  after  all,  where  is  it  you  are  assured  that  kinsman  means 
the  father?  In  Levit.  xix.  12,  "Thy  father's  kinswoman." 
Then  why  not  say  it  means  the  mother,  as  the  next  verse  reads 
"  thy  mother's  kinswoman  "  ?  Said  Rabha :  It  is  written 
[xxvi.  11]  "  next   to  him  of*  his  family,  "  and  the  family  is  .named 


244  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

only  from  the  father's  side  as  [ibid.,  2]  "  after  their  families, 
by  the  descent  from  their  fathers."  But  is  not  the  name  of  the 
mother's  side  also  employed?  Is  it  not  written  [Judges, 
xvii.  7],  "And  there  was  a  young  man  out  of  Bethlehem- 
Judah  of  the  family  of  Judah,  but  he  was  a  Levite,  and  sojourned 
there"?  Now  does  not  this  passage  contradict  itself?  It  is 
written  "  of  the  family  of  Judah,"  from  which  it  is  to  be  inferred 
that  they  came  from  the  tribe  of  Judah,  and  then  it  says  he  is  a 
Levite,  which  means  that  he  was  of  the  tribe  of  Levi.  We  must 
conclude  that  his  father  was  from  Levi  and  his  mother  from 
Judah,  and  nevertheless  this  is  called  a  family  name.  Said 
Rabha  b.  R.  Hanan :  The  verse  reads  "  and  he  is  Levi,"  which 
does  not  mean  that  he  was  a  Levite,  but  that  his  name  was  Levi. 
If  so,  how  is  to  be  understood  (ibid.,  17),  ''  I  have  obtained  a 
Levite  for  a  priest  "?  There  it  is  also  written  Levi,  and  means 
a  man  by  the  name  of  Levi.  But  how  can  you  say  that  his  name 
was  Levi?  Was  not  his  name  Jonathan,  as  it  is  written  (ibid., 
xviii.  30),  "  And  Jonathan  the  son  of  Gershom  .  .  .  were 
priests,"  etc.  ?  And  he  answered :  Even  according  to  your 
theory,  was  he  then  the  son  of  Menashe?  He  was  the  son  of 
Moses,  as  it  is  written  [I  Chron.  xxiii.  15]  :  "  The  sons  of  Moses 
were  Gershom  and  Eliezer."  It  is  written  Menashe,  because 
he  acted  like  Menashe,  who  was  an  idolator;  and  therefore  the 
phrase  "  of  Judah  "  is  employed  because  Menashe  came  from 
Judah.  R.  Johanan  in  the  name  of  R.  Simeon  b.  Jo'hai  said: 
From  this  is  to  be  inferred  that  we  confer  a  corrupt  name  on  a 
corrupt  man.  R.  Jose  b.  Hanina,  however,  said  that  this  may 
be  inferred  from  the  following  [I  Kings,  i.  6]  :  "  And  his  mother 
had  after  Abshalom."  But  was  not  Adoniyah  the  son  of  Chag- 
gith,  and  Abshalom  the  son  of  Maacha?  We  must  say  that 
because  he  acted  like  Abshalom,  who  also  rebelled  ag-ainst  the 
kingdom,  the  verse  conjoined  him  with  Abshalom. 

R.  Elazar  said :  We  see  that  when  Moses  married  the  daugh- 
ter of  Jethro,  Jonathan  was  the  outcome,  and  when  Aaron 
married  the  daughter  of  Aminadab  the  outcome  was  Pinchos. 

But  was  not  Pinchos  also  a  descendant  of  Jethro,  as  it  is 
written  [Ex.  vi.  25],  "  Elazar  took  of  the  daughters  of  Putiel 
for  wife  and  she  bore  unto  him  Phinchas,"  and  it  is  said  else- 
where that  Jethro  and  Putiel  are  identical?  Nay,  this  Putiel 
is  Joseph,  as  it  is  also  said  elsewhere  that  Joseph  and  Putiel  nre 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST    GATE).  245 

identical.*  But  is  it  not  said  elsewhere  that  the  tribes  chided 
Phinchas,  saying:  "  See  the  descendant  of  Puti,  whose  grand- 
father had  fattened  calves  for  idols;  shall  he  dare  to  kill  a  prince 
of  the  tribe  of  Israel?  "  Both  names  are  apphcable;  for  if  his 
mother's  father  was  a  descendant  of  Joseph,  his  mother's  mother 
was  a  descendant  of  Jethro  or  vice  versa,  and  the  word  Putiel 
instead  of  Puti  may  mean  both. 

Rabha  said :  If  one  is  about  to  marry,  it  is  advisable  for  him 
to  investigate  the  character  of  the  bride's  brothers;  as  it  is 
written  (ibid.,  23),  the  "  sister  of  Nachshon."  To  what  purpose 
is  it  written  the  "  sister  of  Nachshon  "?  Is  it  not  evident  that 
she  was  the  sister  of  Aminadab?  Hence  this  is  an  intimation  to 
one  about  to  marry  to  investigate  the  brothers  of  his  prospective 
bride.  There  is  also  a  Boraitha  to  the  effect  that  the  majority 
of  children  resemble  the  brothers  of  their  mother.  It  is  writ- 
ten [Judges,  xviii.  3],  "Who  brought  thee  hither?"  (Jialom) 
which  means  "  Are  you  not  a  descendant  of  Moses?  "  of  whom 
it  is  written  [Ex.  iii.  5]  "  hither  "  (halom),  and  "  thou  shalt  be  a 
priest  to  the  idol  "  ?  And  he  answered :  "  I  have  a  tradition  from 
the  house  of  my  grandfather  that  it  is  better  for  one  to  hire 
himself  to  Abliada  Zarah  (idolatry)  than  to  rely  upon  people 
that  shall  support  him."  [(Says  the  Gemara:)  He  has  mis- 
understood it.  Ahhada  Zarah  means  "  idolatry,"  Literally, 
however,  it  is  "  a  strange  service  "  and  it  is  as  Rabh  said  to 
Kahana:  (If  you  are  in  need),  fleece  a  carcass  in  the  middle  of 
the  market  and  do  not  say  you  are  a  great  man,  and  it  is  not 
fit  for  you.] 

David  saw  that  he  was  fond  of  money  and  appointed  him 
treasurer  for  the  government,  as  it  is  written  [I  Chron.xxvi.24], 
"  Shebuel  the  son  of  Gershom,  the  son  of  Moses,  superintendent 
of  the  treasuries."  Was  then  his  name  Shebuel?  Was  it  not 
Jonathan?  Said  R.  Johanan:  Shebuel  is  composed  of  two 
words,  Shehu,  which  means  "  repented,"  and  El  means  "  God  "; 
and  "  Shebuel  "  means  that  he  repented  to  God  with  all  his 
heart. 


*  The  Gemara  infers  it  from  terms  in  Hebrew  or  Chaldaic  which  it  is  impossible 
to  translate  into  English;  namely,  Putiel,  which  is  a  name,  Pitem  meaning  in  Aramaic 
"  fat,"  and  Piipet,  which  means  in  Aramaic  "  subduing."  Hence  by  Putiel  can  be 
meant  Jethro,  who  fattened  calves  for  idols,  and  also  Joseph,  who  subdued  ^fee  evil 
spirits. 


246  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

"  His  children  .  .  .  inherit.''  Whence  is  this  deduced? 
It  is  written  [Numbers,  xxvii.  8],  "  If  a  man  die,  and  have  no 
son,"  etc.  We  see  the  case  is  one  wherein  he  has  no  son,  but 
if  he  has  one,  that  one  has  the  preference.  Said  R.  Papa  to 
Abayi :  But  perhaps  it  means  that  if  there  is  a  son  only,  he  shall 
inherit,  and  if  there  is  a  daughter  only,  she  shall  inherit;  but  if 
there  were  a  son  and  a  daughter  neither  of  them  should  inherit. 
Said  he:  Who  then  shall  inherit — the  mayor  of  the  city?  I 
mean  to  say  that  neither  of  them  shall  inherit  all,  but  each  take 
an  equal  share.  Said  Abayi  to  him :  Was  it  then  necessary  for 
the  Scripture  to  state  that  if  there  were  only  one  son  he  may 
inherit  all  the  estates  of  his  father?  Answered  he  (R.  Papa) :  I 
mean  to  say  that  the  verse  perhaps  came  to  teach  that  a  daugh- 
ter may  also  be  an  inheritor.  And  he  (Abayi)  answered :  This 
is  already  written  [ibid.,  xxxvi.  8],  "  And  every  daughter  that 
inheriteth,"  etc.  R.  A'ha  b.  Jacob  said :  This  is  to  be  deduced 
from  the  following  [ibid.,  xxvii.  4],  "  Why  should  the  name  of 
our  father  be  done  away  from  the  midst  of  his  family  because 
he  hath  no  son?  "  But  if  he  should  have  a  son,  the  son  would 
have  the  preference;  but  perhaps  this  was  only  the  saying  of  the 
daughters  of  Zelophchod  (i.e.,  they  thought  that  such  was  the 
law,  as  it  was  customary  at  that  time).  But  after  the  Torah  was 
given  the  law  was  changed,  that  a  son  and  daughter  should 
inherit  together;  therefore  Abayi's  explanation  is  better. 

Rabhina  said :  This  is  to  be  deduced  from  the  words  "  next 
to  him,"  and  a  son  is  nearer  than  a  daughter;  and  why?  As 
it  is  said  above,  he  may  be  substituted  for  his  father  in  the 
cases  concerning  a  maid-servant  and  a  field,  etc.  But  could 
then  a  daughter  be  substituted  for  her  father  in  the  case  of  a 
maid-servant?  Hence  the  best  interpretation  is  Abayi's;  and 
if  you  wish,  it  may  be  deduced  from  Levit.  xxv.  46,  "  For  your 
sons  after  you,"  etc.,  which  means  to  your  sons  *  and  not  to 
your  daughters.  But  according  to  this  the  verse  [Deut.  xi.  21], 
"  The  days  of  your  children,"  which  is  also  written  with 
"  Bniechein,"  should  also  be  explained  the  sons  and  not  the 
daughters?     With  a  blessing  it  is  different. 

"The  brothers  of  the  f other.''  Whence  is  this  deduced? 
Said  Rabba:  By  analogy  of  expression  r  brothers  "  here  [Num- 

*  It  is  written  hr.iechein  ;  literally,  "sons."  Leeser  translates  "children,"  accord- 
ing to  the  sense. 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  247 

bers,  xxvii.  9]  and  in  Genesis,  xlii.  32.  "  We  are  twelve  brothers, 
the  sons  of  our  father";  as  there  they  were  brothers  of  the  father, 
so  are  they  here  also  on  the  father's  side.  But  was  it  not  said 
above  that  from  the  father's  side  the  family  is  named,  but  not 
from  the  mother's?  (See  above,  p.  244.)  Yea,  this  is  deduced 
from  verse  11,  as  above,  and  Rabba's  statement  was  taught  con- 
cerning Yeboom  (the  marriage  of  a  brother  to  the  widow  of 
his  childless  brother). 

"  The  son  from  his  mother."  Whence  is  this  all  deduced? 
From  that  which  the  rabbis  taught.  It  is  written  [Num. 
xxxvi.  8],  "Any  daughter  who  inherits  the  estate  of  the 
tribes."*  How  can  a  daughter  inherit  from  two  tribes?  It 
must  be  concluded  that  her  father  was  from  one  tribe  and  her 
mother  from  another,  and  both  died  leaving  estates,  and  she 
has  inherited  both.  This  is  concerning  a  daughter,  but 
whence  have  we  knowledge  concerning  a  son?  From  the 
a  fortiori  argument  that  as  a  daughter  who  has  no  share  in  the 
inheritance  of  her  father  when  there  is  a  son  is  nevertheless 
an  heir  to  the  estate  of  her  mother,  a  son  who  inherits  from 
his  father  so  much  the  more  inherits  from  his  mother.  And 
from  this  it  is  to  be  deduced  that,  as  there  the  son  has  the  pref- 
erence over  the  daughter  as  an  heir  of  the  father,  so  is  it  also 
with  the  inheritance  from  the  mother.  Both  R.  Jose  b.  Jehu- 
dah  and  R.  Elazar  b.  Jose,  however,  say  in  the  name  of 
Zecharia  the  son  of  the  butcher  that  a  son  and  a  daughter 
are  equally  heirs  of  their  mother.  Why  so?  Because  there 
is  a  rule:  It  is  sufficient  that  the  result  derived  from  the  infer- 
ence be  equivalent  to  the  law  from  which  it  is  drawn  (and  as 
the  law  that  a  son  may  inherit  from  his  mother  is  drawn  a 
fortiori  from  the  case  of  the  daughter,  it  is  sufficient  to  say 
that  he  inherits  also,  but  not  that  he  shall  have  the  preference). 
But  does  the  first  Tana  ignore  the  theory  of  "  it  is  sufficient  "? 
Is  this  not  biblical,  as  we  have  learned  (First  Gate,  p.  51,  in  the 
beginning  of  the  Gemara)?  In  all  other  cases  he  uses  the 
theory;  here,  however,  it  is  different,  because  of  the  reading 
"  from  the  tribes."  We  see  then  that  the  tribe  of  the  mother 
is  equal  to  the  tribe  of  the  father,  and  as  concerning  the  father's 
the  son  has  the  preference,  so  also  is  it  concerning  the  mother's. 
Nithai  was  about  to  act  in  accordance  with  Zecharia,  and 

*  Leeser's  translation  does  not  correspond. 


248  THE    BABYLONIAN     IalMUD. 

Samuel  said  to  him :  Ignore  Zecharia,  as  the  Halakha  does  not 
prevail  with  him.  R.  Tabla  had  acted  in  accordance  with  R. 
Zecharia,  and  R.  Na'hman  asked  him  what  he  had  done.  And 
the  answer  was  that  he  had  done  so  because  R.  Hinna  b. 
Shlamiah  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh  that  the  Halakha  prevails 
with  R.  Zecharia  the  son  of  the  butcher,  and  R.  Na'hman  told 
him,  "  Go  and  retract  from  your  statement,  and  undo  what  you 
have  done,  and  if  you  will  not  listen,  I  will  put  out  R.  Hinna 
from  your  ears  "  (I  will  place  you  under  the  ban).  R.  Huna 
b.  Hyya  was  also  about  to  act  in  accordance  with  R.  Zecharia, 
and  R.  Na'hman  said,  "What  are  you  doing?"  And  he  an- 
swered :  "  I  do  so  because  R.  Huna  said  in  the  name  of  Rabh 
that  the  Halakha  prevails  with  R.  Zecharia.  Said  R.  Na'hman: 
"  I  will  send  immediately  a  message  to  R.  Huna  asking  him  if 
lie  said  so."  And  Huna  b.  Hyya  became  ashamed.  Said  R. 
Na'hman  to  him :  "  If  R.  Huna  were  dead,  you  would  rebel 
against  me  and  act  accordingly."  But  in  accordance  with 
whose  was  R.  Na'hman's  opinion?  With  both  Rabh's  and 
Samuel's  decision  that  the  Halakha  does  not  prevail  with  R. 
Zecharia. 

R.  Janai  leaned  upon  the  shoulders  of  R.  Simlai  his  servant, 
when  he  walked  on  the  street,  and  it  happened  that  R.  Jehudah 
the  second  was  coming  in  an  opposite  direction,  and  R.  Simlai 
said  to  him :  "  The  man  who  is  coming  in  an  opposite  direction 
is  a  respectable  one,  and  he  is  also  nicely  dressed."  When  they 
came  together,  R.  Janai  fumbled  about  R.  Jehudah's  dress  * 
and  said:  "  Is  this  what  you  call  nicely  dressed?  It  seems  to 
me  like  a  sack."  Jehudah  the  second  questioned  him :  "Whence 
is  it  deduced  that  a  son  has  the  preference  over  a  daughter  in 
the  estate  of  their  mother?"  And  he  answered:  "Because 
it  is  written  *  tribes,'  and  the  verse  compares  the  tribe  of  the 
mother  with  the  tribe  of  the  father.  As  in  the  former  case 
the  son  has  the  preference,  so  is  it  in  the  latter."  Said  Jehudah : 
"  If  so,  why  not  say  that  as  in  the  father's  case  the  first-born 
takes  a  double  share,  so  should  it  be  in  the  mother's?"  Said 
R.  Janai  to  his  servant :  "  Take  me  away  from  him,  this  man 
does  not  want  to  learn."  And  what  was  the  reason?  Said 
Abayi:  It  is  written  [Deut.  xxi.  17],  "of  all  that  is  found  in 
his  possession,"  not  in  her  possession.     But  why  not  say  that 

*  R.  Janai  was  veo  mfirm  and  could  not  see  well. 


TRACT    BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  249 

this  is  so  when  a  single  man  has  married  a  widow  who  has 
children  from  the  first  husband,  but  if  a  single  man  has  married 
a  virgin,  the  first-born  shall  take  a  double  share?  Said  R. 
Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak :  The  same  verse  cited  reads,  "  for  he  is 
the  beginning  of  his  strength,"  his  but  not  her.  Is  this  verse 
not  necessary  to  include  a  first-born  who  came  after  a  mis- 
carriage, that  he  is  entitled  to  a  double  share,  although  he  is 
not  considered  as  such  to  be  redeemed?  Because  it  should  be 
read,  "  he  is  the  first  of  strength,"  and  from  the  addition  his 
both  inferences  are  drawn.  But  still  it  may  be  said  in  case  a 
widower  married  a  virgin,  but  if  a  bachelor  married  a  virgin 
then  the  first-born  is  entitled  to  a  double  share  also  from  his 
mother.  Therefore  said  Rabha:  The  verse  ends  "to  him  be- 
longeth  the  right  of  first  birth  "  ;  which  means  to  him  a  male,  but 
not  to  a  female. 

"  And  the  husband  from  his  wife.''  Whence  is  this  deduced? 
From  that  which  the  rabbis  taught.  It  is  written  [Numbers, 
xxvii.],  "  his  kinsman,"  and  his  wife  is  meant.  Infer  from  this 
that  the  husband  inherits  from  his  wife;  but  lest  one  say  that 
she  inherits  from  him  also,  it  is  written  [ibid.]  "  and  he  shall  in- 
herit from  her."  "  Outhoh  "  means  he  inherits  from  her,  but 
not  she  from  him.  But  the  verses  are  not  written  in  that  order, 
you  say?  Said  Abayi:  Read  thus:  ''Then  shall  ye  give  his 
inheritance  to  his  next  kinsman  and  he  shall  inherit  from  her." 
Said  Rabha  to  him :  It  seems  to  me  that  you  have  a  keen  knife 
to  cut  the  verses.  Therefore,  said  he,  the  verse  means  he  shall 
give  the  inheritance  from  his  kinsman  to  him;  as  he  holds  that 
the  sages  have  a  right  to  subtract,  to  add,  and  to  interpret. 
(I.e.,  it  is  written  nachlossou,  literally  "  his  inheritance,"  with  a 
Vav  at  the  end;  lishourou,  literally  "to  his  kinsman,"  with  a 
Lahmed  at  the  beginning.  Subtract  the  Lahmed  from  lishourou 
and  the  Vav  from  nachlossou.  Put  these  two  letters  together 
and  they  will  read  lou,  literally  "  to  him,"  and  then  the  verse 
will  read  thus :  "  Ye  shall  give  the  inheritance  of  his  kinsman 
to  him.)  The  following  Tana,  however,  infers  this  from  the 
same  verse  in  another  way,  as  we  have  learned  in  the  following 
Boraitha :  It  is  written,  "  And  he  shall  inherit  from  her."  Infer 
from  this  that  the  husband  inherits  from  his  wife.  So  said  R. 
Aqiba.  R.  Ishmael,  however,  said:  It  is  not  necessary  to  cut 
the  verses  (he  does  not  hold  the  theory  of  subtracting,  adding, 


250  THE    BABYLON  I  AX    TALxMUD. 

etc.),  as  there  are  other  verses  [ibid.,  xxxvi.  8],  "  every  daugh- 
ter that  inheriteth,"  which  refers  to  the  transferring  of  an  estate 
from  one  tribe  to  another  through  the  husband,  who  is  of  one 
tribe  and  has  married  a  woman  of  another  tribe.  It  is  wTitten 
[ibid.  7],  "And  the  inheritance  of  the  children  of  Israel  shall 
not  pass  from  tribe  to  tribe,"  and  it  is  also  written  next,  "  and 
no  inheritance  shall  pass  from  one  tribe  to  another,"  and  then 
it  is  written  [Joshua,  xxiv.  33],  "  And  Elazar  the  son  of  Aaron 
died  and  they  buried  him  in  the  hill  of  Pinchas  his  son."  Where 
then  had  Pinchas  a  hill  which  Elazar  did  not  possess  ?  We  must 
then  conclude  that  Pinchas  married  a  woman  who  owned  a 
hill,  she  died  and  he  inherited  it.  And  it  is  also  written 
[I  Chronicles,  ii.  22],  "And  Segub  begat  Jair,  who  had  three 
and  twenty  cities  in  the  land  of  Gilad."  And  wherefrom  did 
Jair  obtain  that  w'hich  his  father,  Segub,  did  not  possess,  if  not 
by  inheritance  from  his  wife.  But  to  what  purpose  did  R. 
Ishmael  cite  all  the  above  verses?  Lest  one  might  say  that  the 
first  cited  verse  does  not  speak  of  transferring  an  estate  through 
the  husband,  but  through  her  son,  and  the  husband  does  not 
inherit.  Therefore  is  the  other  verse  cited,  "  And  the  inheri- 
tance of  the  children  of  Israel  shall  not  pass,"  etc.  But  lest  one 
say  that  this  verse  is  written  to  make  the  one  who  transgresses 
answerable  under  a  positive  and  a  negative  commandment,  but 
still  through  the  son  and  not  the  husband,  therefore  is  the  third 
verse  cited.  But  lest  one  say  that  this  verse  is  also  written  for 
the  purpose  of  making  the  transgressor  answerable  under  two 
negative  and  one  positive  commandments,  therefore  is  the 
fourth  verse  cited;  and  lest  one  say  that  Elazar's  wife  owned  a 
hill  and  Pinchas  inherited  it  from  her,  therefore  is  the  fifth 
verse  cited.  And  lest  one  say  that  the  same  was  the  case  with 
Segub  and  Jair,  then  why  two  verses  which  contain  the  same 
case? 

Said  R.  Papa  to  Abayi :  But  what  does  this  support?  It 
may  be  said  that  the  husband  does  not  inherit,  and  all  the  above 
cited  verses  state  that  it  was  through  the  son,  and  did  both 
Jair  and  Pinchas  buy  the  estate  in  question?  And  Abayi  an- 
swered :  You  cannot  say  that  Pinchas  bought  the  estate,  as  if 
this  had  been  so  the  property  would  have  been  returned  to  the 
seller  in  the  jubilee  year,  and  then  the  upright  Elazar  would 
have  been  buried  in  ground  not  his  own.     But  perhaps  the  hill 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  351 

in  question  was  transferred  to  Pinchas  from  estates  set  apart 
for  the  priests  [Numb,  xviii.  14].  Said  Abayi  to  him:  If  we 
were  to  agree  with  your  theory,  the  estate  would  be  still  trans- 
ferred from  one  tribe  to  another.  Is  it  not  explained  above 
that  verse  8  refers  to  a  woman  who  has  inherited  from  both 
father  and  mother,  who  were  of  two  different  tribes?  Why, 
then,  if  she  should  marry  one  belonging  to  the  tribe  of  her 
father,  would  the  estate  of  her  mother  be  transferred  to  another 
tribe?  And  R.  Papa  said :  This  is  no  objection,  as  the  case  may 
be  different,  and  perhaps  the  estate  of  her  mother  was  already 
transferred.  Rejoined  Abayi :  Such  a  supposition  cannot  be 
taken  into  consideration;  as  one  would  not  say  that  because  a 
part  had  already  been  transferred,  the  other  part  should  now 
be  transferred.  Furthermore,  the  transfer  was  according  to  the 
law,  as  when  a  woman  has  married  one  of  another  tribe,  her 
brother  being  still  alive,  she  then  possessed  no  heritage,  but 
received  it  after  she  was  already  married.  Afterward  her 
daughter,  who  has  inherited  her  mother's  estate,  if  she  should 
marry  even  one  belonging  to  her  father's  tribe,  her  son  would 
inherit  from  her  the  estate  which  had  belonged  to  another  tribe. 
Said  R.  Jiiman  to  R.  Ashi :  Even  in  accordance  with  Abayi, 
who  holds  that  the  husband  does  inherit,  it  is  correct.  If  the 
verse  is  to  be  explained  that  the  daughter  has  already  inherited 
from  her  mother,  who  was  of  another  tribe,  the  Scripture  com- 
mands that  she  shall  marry  one  of  another  tribe,  to  the  end 
that  the  estate  of  one  tribe  shall  not  be  transferred  to  another 
one,  no  matter  whether  through  son  or  husband ;  but  if  the 
estate  of  her  mother  was  not  as  yet  transferred,  why  should  she 
marry  one  of  her  father's  tribe?  The  estate  of  her  mother, 
which  belongs  to  her,  if  her  husband  inherits  from  her,  would 
be  transferred  to  him;  hence  the  estate  of  one  tribe  would  be 
transferred  to  another.  The  answer  was  that  she  might  marry 
a  man  whose  father  was  of  the  tribe  of  her  father,  and  his 
mother  of  the  tribe  of  her  mother,  and  in  such  a  case  the  estate 
of  her  father  remains  within  the  tribe  of  her  father,  and  the 
estate  of  her  mother  remains  also  with  the  man  whose  mother 
is  of  the  same  tribe.  But  if  so,  should  not  the  verse  read  "  to 
one  who  is  of  the  family  of  her  father's  and  mother's  tribe  "  ? 
If  the  verse  should  so  read,  one  might  say  that  even  if  her  hus- 
band's father  were  of  her  mother's  tribe,  and  his  mother  was  of 


252  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

her  father's  tribe,  this  would  not  be  in  accordance  with  the  law, 
as  the  estate  of  her  father  would  be  transferred  to  her  husband, 
who  is  of  another  tribe.  There  is  a  Boraitha  that  through  the 
son  the  estate  is  transferred,  namely :  "  The  seventh  verse  reads 
'  the  inheritance  of  the  children  of  Israel  shall  not  pass,'  etc., 
which  refers  to  the  son.  But  perhaps  it  refers  to  the  husband? 
This  could  not  be,  as  verse  9  reads  '  as  no  inheritance  shall 
pass  from  one  tribe  to  another,'  which  refers  to  the  husband; 
hence  verse  7  refers  to  the  son."  There  is  another  Boraitha: 
"  Verse  9  refers  to  the  husband,  but  perhaps  it  refers  to  the  son? 
This  cannot  be,  as  verse  7  has  already  referred  to  the  son."  We 
see,  then,  that  both  Boraithas  hold  that  verse  9  refers  to  the 
husband.  Where  is  this  taken  from?  Simon  in  the  name  of 
Rabba  b.  R.  Shila  said :  From  the  expression  "  ish  "  in  verse  8, 
which  means  husband.  But  is  not  the  same  expression  in  verses 
7  and  9?  Said  R.  N'ahman  b.  Itz'hak :  From  the  expression 
''Idbako"  (adhere).  But  also  this  expression  is  in  7  and  9? 
Therefore  said  Rabha:  From  the  end  of  verse  9,  which  reads 
"  the  tribes  of  Israel  shall  adhere  ";  and  R.  Ashi  maintains,  from 
the  expression  "  from  one  tribe  to  another  tribe,"  a  son  cannot 
be  called  of  another  tribe. 

R,  Abuhu  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan,  who  spoke  in  the  name 
of  R.  Janai,  who  heard  it  from  Rabbi,  quoting  R.  Joshua  b. 
Kar'ha,  said :  Whence  is  it  deduced  that  the  husband  does  not 
inherit  the  estate  to  which  his  wife  during  her  life  is  only 
heir  apparent  {e.g.,  his  wife  is  an  only  daughter  and  she  dies 
before  her  father,  leaving  a  child,  and  thereafter  her  father  dies, 
and  her  child  but  not  her  husband  inherits)?  From  [I  Chron- 
icles, ii.  22]  :  "  Segub  begat  Jair,  who  had  three  and  twenty 
cities."  Whence  did  Jair  obtain  these,  which  his  father  did 
not  possess.  Infer  from  this  that  Segub  had  married  a  wife 
who  had  twenty-three  cities,  and  she  died  while  her  nearest 
heirs  yet  lived.  Thereafter  her  nearest  heirs  also  died,  and  Jair, 
her  son,  not  Segub,  her  husband,  was  her  heir.  And  the  same 
is  the  case  with  Elazar,  who  married  a  woman  who  possessed  a 
hill,  and  she  died  while  her  nearest  heirs  were  still  alive,  and 
thereafter  the  nearest  heirs  also  died  and  Pinchas  inherits  from 
her.  How  are  we  assured  that  Elazar's  wife  brought  him  the 
hill;  perhaps  Pinchas'  wife  possessed  it?  By  the  words  "his 
son,"  in  Joshua,  xxiv.  ^^  (which  are  superfluous,  as  every  one 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  253 

knows  that  Pinchas  was  his  son),  meaning  his  son  who  was  the 
proper  heir." 

"  And  also  the  children  of  sisters."  There  is  a  Boraitha, 
"  Sons  but  not  daughters  of  sisters."  How  is  this  to  be  under- 
stood ?  Said  R.  Shesheth :  It  means  that  if  there  were  sons  and 
daughters,  the  sons  would  have  the  preference.  As  R.  Samuel 
b.  R.  Itz'hak  taught  in  the  presence  of  R.  Huna :  It  is  written 
[Numb,  xxvii.  11]  "  and  he  shall  inherit  it,"  which  means  that 
the  second  inheritance  shall  be  equal  to  the  first;  as  in  the  first 
the  son  has  the  preference,  so  it  shall  be  with  the  second. 
Rabba  b.  Hanina  taught  in  the  presence  of  R.  Na'hman :  It  is 
written  [Deut.  xxi.  16],  "  Then  shall  it  be  (in  the  day  *)  when 
he  dividet'h  an  inheritance,"  which  means  in  the  daytime  he 
may  divide  an  inheritance  but  not  in  the  night-time.  Said  Abayi 
to  him :  "  Do  you  mean  to  say  that  only  from  him  who  dies 
in  the  daytime  his  children  may  inherit,  but  otherwise  they 
cannot?  Perhaps  you  mean  to  say  that  judges  must  not  dis- 
cuss a  case  of  a  will,  at  night,  as  we  have  learned  in  the  fol- 
lowing Boraitha:  It  is  written  [Numb,  xxvii.  11]  "a  stat- 
ute of  justice,"  which  means  that  the  whole  section  which  treats 
of  inheritance  is  a  statute  of  justice  (which  must  be  discussed 
in  the  daytime  only  and  by  no  less  than  three  judges).  It  is  as 
R.  Jehudah  said  elsewhere :  If  three  persons  visited  a  sick  man 
and  he  made  verbally  his  last  will  before  them,  they  might,  if 
they  wished,  write  it  down,  and,  further,  they  might  execute  it. 
If,  however,  there  were  only  two,  they  might  write  down  his 
will  (as  witnesses),  but  could  not  execute  it.  And  to  this  R. 
Hisda  added  that  so  it  is  as  to  the  daytime  only,  but  if  it  were  at 
night,  even  if  there  are  three,  they  may  write  down  the  will,  but 
not  execute  it ;  because  they  are  considered  witnesses  only,  and 
a  witness  cannot  qualify  as  an  executor.  And  Rabba  answered 
him :  Yea,  this  is  what  I  meant  to  say. 

It  is  taught :  In  the  case  of  a  gift  with  the  ceremony  of  a 
sudarium  by  any  person,  whether  healthy  or  sick,  what  time 
may  be  given  him  to  retract?  Rabba  said:  As  long  as  they 
are  sitting  at  that  place  where  the  ceremony  was  performed. 
And  R.  Joseph  said :  As  long  as  they  are  discussing  this  matter. 
Said  R.  Joseph  also :  It  seems  to  me  that  I  am  right  in  my  deci- 
sion, as  R.  Je'hudah  said  that  three  who  are  visiting  a  sick  person 

*The  Scripture  reads  byoum,  "  at  the  day,"  which  Leaser  has  not  translated. 


254  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALiMUD. 

may,  if  they  like,  write  down  his  will  and  execute  it;  now,  if  yen 
say  he  may  retract  as  long  as  they  are  sitting  there,  though 
they  do  not  discuss  the  matter,  how  can  they  execute  the  will 
but  in  the  doubt  that  while  they  are  doing  so  he  may  retract? 
Said  R.  Ashi:  I  have  maintained  before  R.  Kahana,  even  in 
accordance  with  R.  Joseph's  theory,  that  it  is  to  be  feared  that 
even  while  they  are  discussing  this  matter  he  will  retract ;  how 
then  can  they  execute  the  will?  Say,  then,  that  they  have 
ceased  to  discuss  this  matter  and  are  discussing  another  one. 
The  same  can  be  said  here,  that  they  arose  after  hearing  his 
will,  and  again  took  their  seats.  The  Halakha,  however,  pre- 
vails in  accordance  with  R.  Joseph  concerning  the  field  men- 
tioned above  (p.  38),  concerning  this  case,  and  concerning  the 
case  of  "  a  half  "  (when  the  sick  man  says,  "  I  bequeath  my 
estate  to  you  and  your  son,"  upon  which,  according  to  R.  Jo- 
seph, the  estate  may  be  divided  equally),  which  matter  will  be 
explained  in  Chapter  IX. 

"  The  z^'oman  to  her  children."  To  what  purpose  is  this  re- 
peated? Does  not  the  first  part  read  "the  son  from  his 
mother," etc.  ?  It  comes  to  teach  us  that  the  case  of  "the  woman 
to  her  children  "  is  equivalent  to  that  of  the  woman  to  her  hus- 
band. As  the  husband  does  not  inherit  in  the  place  of  his  wife 
that  which  she  would  have  inherited  had  she  lived  (as  illustrated 
in  the  case  of  the  woman  who  predeceases  her  father),  so  also 
the  son  inherits  his  mother's  share,  but  his  brothers  (of  the  one 
father)  do  not  inherit  from  him  if  he  dies.*  R.  Johanan  in  the 
name  of  R.  Jehudah  b.  R.  Simeon  said :  Biblically  a  father  in- 
herits from  his  son,  and  a  mother  also  inherits  from  her  son, 
as  it  is  written  "  tribes,"  from  which  is  deduced  the  tribe  of 
the  mother  as  well  as  the  tril)e  of  the  father;  as  concerning  the 
tribe  of  the  father,  the  father  inherits  from  his  son,  the  same  is 
the  case  with  the  mother.  R.  Johanan,  however,  opposed  R. 
Jehudah,  from  our  Mishna,  which  states  that  a  woman  to  her 
son,  her  husband,  and  the  brothers  of  the  mother  may  bequeath 
but  not  inherit.  R.  Jehudah  answered :  I  am  not  aware  who 
taught  our  Mishna;  but  let  him  say  that  our  Mishna  is  in  ac- 
cordance with  R.  Zechariah,  who  docs  not  care  to  explain  the 

*  This  is  the  explanation  of  Gershom.  Rashbam,  however,  interprets  it  to 
menn  that  if  the  son  dies  while  his  mother  is  still  alive,  the  legal  heirs  are  not  his 
brothers,  but  the  relations  of  her  father. 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  255 

word  "  tribes  "  as  a  comparison.  Our  Mishna  cannot  be  ex- 
plained in  accordance  with  R.  Zechariah,  as  it  states  "  and  the 
children  of  sisters,"  and  a  Boraitha  adds  that  the  sons  bul  not 
the  daughters  are  meant,  which  was  explained  by  R.  Shesheth 
as  meaning  that  the  sons  have  the  preference,  and  according  to 
R.  Zechariah,  sons  and  daughters  are  equal  heirs  of  their 
mother.  But  how  is  to  be  explained  the  teaching  of  the  Tana 
of  our  Mishna?  If  he  holds  that  the  word  "  tribes  "  is  to  be 
taken  as  a  comparison  of  one  tribe  to  another,  why  should  not 
a  woman  inherit  from  her  son ;  and  if  he  does  not,  w^hence  does 
he  derive  his  theory  that  a  son  has  the  preference  in  the  estate 
of  his  mother?  The  comparison  holds  good,  but  this  case  is 
different ;  because  it  is  written  "  every  daughter  that  inheriteth," 
which  means  she  may  inherit  but  does  not  bequeath. 

MISHNA  II. :  The  order  of  inheritance  is  thus :  If  a  man 
dies,  leaving  no  son,  the  inheritance  shall  pass  to  his  daughter 
(reads  the  passage),  by  which  we  see  that  the  son  has  preference 
before  the  daughter,  and  the  same  is  the  case  with  all  the 
descendants  of  the  son,  who  also  have  preference  before  the 
daughter.  The  daughter  has  preference  over  the  brothers  of 
her  father,  and  the  same  is  the  case  with  her  descendants.  Tiie 
brothers  of  the  deceased  have  preference  over  the  father  s 
broihers,  and  the  same  is  the  case  with  their  descendants.  This 
is  the  rule:  After  every  one  who  has  the  preference  concerning 
an  inheritance,  his  descendants  have,  in  order,  a  like  preference. 
The  father  has  the  preference  before  all  his  descendants. 

GEMARA:  The  rabbis  taught:  It  is  written  "a  son" — 
from  which  we  know  the  son  himself  only,  but  whence  do  we 
deduce  the  son's  son  or  his  daughter,  or  even  the  grandson  of 
his  daughter?  It  is  written  icn  hit  ;  and  we  read  the  word  icn 
as  if  it  were  written  ayin,  which  means  investigate,  for  perhaps 
his  son  left  a  son  or  a  daughter,  etc.  It  is  also  written  "  a 
daughter,"  by  which  we  know^  indeed  the  daughter,  but  whence 
do  we  deduce  her  daughter,  son,  and  daughter  of  her  son  ?  It 
is  written  icn,  "  ayin;'  as  said  above.  And  the  same  is  the  case 
with  investigation  in  the  opposite  direction  {i.e.,  perhaps  the 
father's  father  is  yet  alive),  so  that  an  investigation  concerning 
inheritance  may  stretch  back  to  Reuben,  the  son  of  Jacob. 
Why  only  back  to  Reuben,  and  not  as  far  as  Jacob?  Said 
Abayi :  We  have  a  tradition  that  the  whole  tribe  cannot  be  ex- 


256  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

tinguished.*  R.  Huna  in  the  name  of  Rabh  said:  If  one  decides 
that  a  daughter  shall  inherit,  when  there  is  a  daughter  of  a  son, 
even  if  he  were  a  prince  in  Israel,  he  must  not  be  listened  to, 
as  so  acts  the  Sadducean,  which  we  have  learned  in  the  fol- 
lowing Boraitha:  On  the  24th  day  of  the  month  Tebheth  we 
returned  to  our  old  law,  namely:  the  Sadducean  used  to  say 
that  a  daughter  should  inherit  an  equal  share  with  the  daughter 
of  the  son,  and  Rabban  Johanan  b.  Zakai  said  to  them :  "  Ye 
fools,  wherefrom  have  ye  taken  this?  "  And  none  was  there  to 
answer  him,  except  an  old  man  who  talked  (childishly)  against 
him  thus:  Is  this  not  an  a  fortiori  conclusion?  The  daughter 
of  his  son  who  comes  upon  the  strength  of  her  deceased  father, 
the  son  of  the  bequeather  inherits.  So  much  the  more  the 
daughter  who  comes  upon  the  strength  of  the  bequeather  him- 
self should  take  a  share  in  the  inheritance.  R.  Johanan  then 
read  before  him  [Gen.  xxxvi.  20],  "  These  are  the  sons  of  Seir 
the  Chorite,  who  inhabited  the  land,  Lotan  and  Shobal  and 
Zibon  and  Anah,"  and  there  is  also  written  [ibid.  24],  "And 
these  are  the  children  of  Zibon,  both  Ajah  and  Anah."  How 
is  it  to  be  understood?  Infer  from  this  that  Zibon  had  lain 
with  his  sister  Ajah,  and  she  bore  Anah.  [But  perhaps  there 
were  two  Anahs?]  Said  Rabba:  I  shall  say  a  thing  which 
would  be  fit  for  King  Sabur  to  say  [Samuel  is  meant,  although, 
according  to  others,  R.  Papa  said  so  when  he  meant  Rabba]. 
It  is  written  in  the  same  verse  cited  "  that  Anah,"  which  means 
one  that  is  the  same  as  the  Anah  of  verse  20.  Said  the  Saddu- 
cean to  R.  Johanan:  Rabbi,  with  such  an  explanation  do  you 
think  to  override  me?  R.  Johanan  answered:  And  why  not? 
Should  not  our  Torah  with  its  regulations  ignore  your  gos- 
sip? Your  a  fortiori  conclusion  could  be  easily  overthrown  by 
the  following  theory :  How  can  you  compare  one's  daughter  to 
the  daughter  of  his  son,  when  the  latter  has  a  right  of  inheri- 
tance even  when  the  brothers  of  her  father  are  still  alive,  while 
the  former  has  no  such  right  (for  a  daughter  does  not  inherit 
when  she  has  brothers)  ?  And  with  this  he  conquered  the  Sad- 
ducean, and  this  day  was  established  for  a  festival. 

It  is  written  [Judges,  xxi.  17]:    "And  they  said  their  in- 
heritance must  be  secured  for  Benjamin,  that  not  a  tribe  may 

*  /.f.,  it  cannot  happen  that  all  the  descendants  of  one  of  the  twelve  tribes  of 
tke  sons  of  Jacob  should  die.     The  basis  of  this  is  Malachi,  iii.  6. 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  257 

be  blotted  out  from  Israel."  Said  R.  Itz'hak  of  the  school  of 
R.  Ami:  Infer  from  this  that  at  that  time  a  stipulation  was 
made  that  as  long  as  the  tribe  of  Benjamin  should  continue,  the 
daughter  of  a  son  should  not  inherit  her  share  with  existing 
brothers,  in  order  that,  through  her  marriage  to  a  man  of  an- 
other tribe,  she  might  not  divert  the  estate  from  the  tribe  of 
her  father.  R.  Johanan  in  the  name  of  R.  Simeon  b.  Johai 
said:  He  who  leaves  no  son  to  succeed  him  is  unloved  of 
heaven,  as  it  is  written  [Psalms,  Iv.  20]  :  "  Those  who  leave  *  no 
changes  fear  no  God."  R.  Johanan  and  R.  Joshuah  b.  Levi 
difTer.  According  to  one  a  son  is  meant,  and  according  to  the 
other  a  disciple.  From  the  fact  that  R.  Joshuah  b.  Levi  did 
not  go  to  a  funeral  unless  the  deceased  was  childless,  because 
it  is  written  [Jeremiah,  xxii.  10],  "Weep  sorely  for  him  that 
goeth  away,"  which  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh  interpreted 
as  meaning  "  he  who  passeth  away  without  a  son,"  it  must  be 
concluded  that  R.  Joshuah  b.  Levi  was  the  one  who  said  "  a 
disciple."  R.  Pinchas  b.  Hama  lectured :  It  is  written  [I  Kings, 
xi.  21]  :  "And  when  Hadad  heard  in  Egypt  that  David  slept 
with  his  father  and  that  Joab  the  captain  of  the  army  was  dead." 
Why  concerning  David  is  it  written  "  slept,"  and  concerning 
Joab  "  dead  "  ?  Because  David  left  a  son,  and  Joab  did  not. 
But  is  it  not  written  [Ezra,  viii.  9]  :  "  From  the  children  of  Joab, 
Obhadia  b.  Jechiel  "?  Therefore,  as  "  slept  "  is  the  word  em- 
ployed for  David,  we  must  conclude  that  he  left  a  son  like  him- 
self, which  was  not  the  case  with  Joab.  Wherefore  in  his  case 
the  term  "  dead  "  is  used.  And  he  also  said :  Poverty  in  the 
house  of  one  is  harder  than  fifty  plagues,  as  it  is  written  [Job, 
xix.  21]  :  "  Spare  me,  spare  me,  O  ye  my  friends!  for  the  hand 
of  God  hath  touched  me."  And  he  was  answered  [ibid,  xxxvi. 
21] :  "  Thou  hast  chosen  this  instead  of  poverty."  t  The  same 
said  again :  If  one  has  a  sick  person  in  his  house,  he  shall  go  to 
a  wise  man  and  request  him  to  pray  for  the  sick  one,  as  it  is  writ- 
ten [Prov.  xvi.  14] :  "  The  fury  of  a  king  is  like  the  messengers 
of  death;  but  a  wise  man  will  appease  it." 

"  This  is  the  rule."  Rami  b.  Hama  questioned:  If  the  de- 
ceased left  a  grandfather  and  a  brother,  as  did  Abraham  and 
Jacob  to  the  estate  of  Esau,  who  had  the  preference?     Said 

*  Leeser  translates  "  dread,"  which  does  not  correspond, 
t  Leeser  does  not  correspond  at  all. 


25S  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Rabha:  Come  and  hear  the  decision  of  our  Mishna,  which 
states  that  the  father  has  the  preference  before  all  his  descend- 
ants. Rami,  however,  maintains  that  the  father  has  the  pref- 
erence over  his  descendants,  but  not  over  the  descendants  of 
his  son.  (Says  the  Gemara:)  It  seems  that  Rami  is  right.  As 
the  Mishna  states,  this  is  the  rule :  He  who  has  preference  con- 
cerning inheritance,  his  descendants  have  the  same.  Now,  if 
when  Esau  died  Isaac  and  Abraham  were  both  alive,  Isaac 
would  have  had  the  preference  to  the  estate;  the  same  would 
have  been  the  case  if  Isaac  had  been  dead.  Then  Jacob  w^ould 
have  had  the  preference  over  Abraham,  because  he  was  a  de- 
scendant of  Isaac.     Infer  from  this  that  so  it  is. 

MISHNA  ///. :  The  daughters  of  Z'lophchod  have  in- 
herited three  shares  from  the  inheritance  of  their  father,  his 
share  as  one  of  the  ascendants  from  Egypt,  his  share  in  the 
division  of  Chipher  his  father  (who  was  also  among  the  ascend- 
ants from  Egypt),  and  because  he  was  a  first-born  he  inherited  a 
double  share. 

GEMARA :  Our  Mishna  is  in  accordance  with  him  who 
said  that  the  land  was  divided  among  the  ascendants  from 
Egypt,  and  not  to  their  children  {i.e.,  the  person  who  entered  the 
land  of  Israel,  if  he  was  among  the  ascendants  of  Egypt,  took 
his  share,  and  divided  it  among  his  children;  and  if  an  ascend- 
ant had  died  and  his  children  entered  the  land,  the  share  of 
their  deceased  father  was  given  to  them  and  they  divided  it 
among  themselves),  as  we  have  learned  in  the  following  Bo- 
raitha:  R.  lashiah  said:  The  land  was  divided  to  the  ascendants 
of  Egypt,  as  it  is  written  [Numb.  xxvi.  55],  "  According  to  the 
names  of  the  tribes  of  their  fathers."  But  how  does  this  corre- 
spond with  [il)id.  53].  "unto  these  shall  the  land  be  divided," 
which  means  to  those  who  entered  the  land?  Those  arc  meant 
who  are  of  sufficient  age  (twenty  years),  excluding  the  minors. 
R.  Jonathan,  however,  said  that  to  those  who  entered  the  land 
it  was  apportioned,  not  to  their  fathers,  as  it  is  written  in  the 
verse  just  cited.  But  how  would  this  correspond  with  verse  55  ? 
This  inheritance  is  different  from  all  other  inheritances,  as  in 
all  others  the  living  inherit  from  the  dead,  and  here  the  dead 
inherit  from  the  living;  and  to  illustrate  this,  said  Rabbi.  I  shall 
give  you  a  parable.  It  is  similar  to  the  case  of  two  priests  in 
one  city,  one  of  whom  has  one  son,  while  the  other  has  two; 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  259 

and  when  they  go  to  the  barn  to  take  the  Tarumaj  he  who 
has  only  one  son  takes  one  share  {e.g.,  a  saah),  and  he  who  has 
two  takes  two  shares,  and  they  turn  them  over  to  their  fathers, 
who  divide  the  shares  equally  among  themselves,  according  to 
the  number  of  souls.  Such,  also,  was  the  apportionment  of 
the  land  of  Israel.  Each  received  land  according  to  the  num- 
ber of  his  souls,  and  after  that  they  divided  it  among  them- 
selves according  to  the  number  of  the  heads  of  the  family  who 
were  of  the  ascendants  from  Egypt;  hence  the  dead  ascendants 
inherit  from  the  living.  R.  Simeon  b.  Elazar,  however,  said 
that  the  land  v/as  apportioned  to  both,  in  the  manner  stated  in 
both  of  the  above-cited  verses.  How  so?  He  who  was  of  the 
ascendants  from  Eg3-pt  took  his  share  among  them,  and  he  who 
was  of  those  who  entered  the  land  of  Israel  took  his  share  among 
them,  and  he  who  was  of  both  the  ascendants  and  the  entering 
took  his  shares  with  both  of  them.  The  shares  of  the  spies 
Joshuah  and  Caleb  took  and  divided  equally.  Tliose  who  mur- 
mured and  the  congregation  of  Kora'h  had  no  share  in  the  land 
at  all,  and  their  children  took  their  shares,  as  the  direct  heirs  of 
their  grandfathers  on  both  the  paternal  and  maternal  sides.  But 
whence  do  you  know  that  in  Num.  xxvi.  the  ascendants  from 
Egypt  are  meant  ?  Perhaps  it  means  the  tribes  themselves  who 
entered  the  land?  It  is  written  [Ex.  vi.  8]:  "I  will  give  it 
you  for  an  heritage."  Inheritance  implies  from  parents  to  chil- 
dren, and  this  was  said  to  the  ascendants  from  Egypt. 

Said  R.  Papa  to  Abayi :  It  is  understood  by  him  who  says 
that  the  land  was  divided  among  the  ascendants  from  Egypt 
[Num.  xxvi.  54].  "  To  the  large  tribe  shalt  thou  give  the  more 
inheritance,  and  to  the  small  shalt  thou  give  the  less  inheri- 
tance." etc. ;  but  to  him  who  says  "  to  those  who  entered  the 
land,"  what  does  this  verse  mean?     This  objection  remains. 

R.  Papa  said  again  to  the  same :  To  him  who  said  that  the 
land  was  divided  to  the  ascendants  it  is  to  be  understood  why 
the  daughters  of  Z'lophchod  sued  for  their  father's  share ;  but 
according  to  him  who  says  "  to  those  who  entered  the  land," 
for  what  did  they  sue?  There  was  no  share  for  them,  as  Z'loph- 
chod was  dead  and  he  had  no  share.  They  sued  that  the  share 
of  their  deceased  father  might  be  given  to  their  grandfather 
Chipher.  and  that  they  misfht  take  their  shares  in  succession. 
(He  said  again :)  It  is  comprehended  by  him  who  says  "  the 


26o  THE    BABYLOxNlAN    TALMUD. 

ascendants,"  etc.,  why  the  children  of  Joseph  cried  [Joshua, 
xvii.  14],  "Why  hast  thou  given  me  but  one  lot  and  one  por- 
tion of  inheritance?"  But  to  him  who  says  "to  those  who 
entered,"  why  did  they  cry — each  of  them  took  his  share?  They 
cried  concerning  the  minor  children,  which  were  numerous. 
Said  Abayi :  From  all  this  is  to  be  inferred  that  all  who  entered 
the  land  of  Israel  had  a  share;  and  if  not,  they  protested.  And 
lest  one  say  that  he  whose  protest  had  effect  is  written,  and  he 
whose  protest  had  no  effect  is  not  written,  then  the  protest  of 
the  children  of  Joseph  was  of  no  effect  and  nevertheless  written 
down.  This  is  beside  the  purpose  of  the  verse,  which  is  aimed 
to  convey  good  advice  to  mankind;  in  effect,  that  one  shall 
take  care  not  to  be  afiflicted  by  a  covetous  eye.  And  this  is 
what  Joshuah  said  to  the  children  of  Joseph  [ibid.  15],  "  If  thou 
art  a  numerous  people,  then  get  thee  up  to  the  wood  country," 
which  means,  "  Go  and  hide  thyself  in  the  forest,  that  no  covet- 
ous eye  may  af^ict  thee  ";  and  they  answered:  We  are  the  de- 
scendants of  Joseph,  whom  a  covetous  eye  cannot  afflict.  As  it 
is  written,  etc.  [see  Middle  Gate,  p.  213]. 

The  text  says  that  the  shares  of  the  spies  Joshua  and  Caleb 
inherited.  Whence  is  this  deduced?  Said  Ula:  It  is  written 
[Numbers,  xiv.  38]  :  "  But  Joshua  the  son  of  Nun  and  Caleb 
.  .  .  remained  alive."  What  is  meant  by  "  remained 
alive  "?  Shall  we  assume  it  is  meant  literally?  To  this  there 
is  another  verse  [ibid.  xxvi.  65],  "save  Caleb  and  Joshua." 
We  must  then  conclude  that  the  first-cited  verse  means  that 
they  lived  with  their  shares.  Farther  on  they  murmured,  and 
the  congregation  of  Kora'h  had  no  share?  But  did  not  a 
Boraitha  state  that  the  shares  of.  the  spies,  the  murmurers,  and 
the  congregation  of  Kora'h,  Joshua  and  Caleb  inherited?  This 
presents  no  difflculty.  The  Tana  of  our  Boraitha  compares  the 
murmuring  to  the  spies,  while  the  other  master  does  not,  as 
we  have  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha:  It  is  written  [ibid, 
xxvii.  3],  "  Our  father  died  in  the  wilderness."  Z'lophchod  is 
meant.  "  But  he  was  not  of  the  company  "  means  "  the  spies  "; 
"  of  those  who  gathered  themselves  "  means  "  the  murmurers 
in  the  company  of  Kora'h,"  literally.  Hence  one  compares  the 
murmurers  to  the  spies,  and  one  does  not. 

Said  R.  Papa  to  Abayi :  And  to  him  who  does  not  so  com- 
pare them,  did  then  Joshua  and  Caleb  inherit  almost  the  whole 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  261 

land  of  Israel  (as  the  murmuring  ones  were  very  numerous)? 
And  he  answered :  He  means  to  say  the  murmurers  who  were 
among  the  company  of  Kora'h,* 

"  As  a  Urst-bom  he  inherited  a  double  share.''  But  why?  At 
the  time  when  Z'lophchod  died  the  land  was  not  as  yet  prepared 
for  apportionment  (as  it  was  still  in  the  possession  of  the 
nations),  and  it  is  said  above  that  a  first-born  does  not  inherit 
a  double  share  in  that  which  is  not  yet  in  existence.  Said  R. 
Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel :  The  Mishna  was  meant  to  say 
"  in  their  personal  property." 

Rabba  opposes  R.  Jehudah's  statement  that  the  daughters 
of  Z'lophchod  took  four  shares,  as  it  is  written  [Joshua,  xvii.  5], 
"  Ten  portions  of  Menasseh."  Therefore  said  Rabba :  The  land 
of  Israel  was  considered  prepared  for  division,  since  the  Lord 
himself  promised  to  give  it  as  an  inheritance  to  Israel.  An 
objection  was  raised  from  the  following:  R.  Hidqua  said:  "I 
had  a  colleague,  Simeon  the  Shqmuni,  who  was  one  of  the  dis- 
ciples of  R.  Aqiba.  He  used  to  say  thus:  Moses  our  master 
was  aware  that  the  daughters  of  Z'lophchod  were  heiresses;  but 
he  did  not  know  whether  they  were  entitled  to  the  share  of  the 
first-born,  and  the  passage  about  the  inheritance  would  be  writ- 
ten through  Moses,  even  if  the  case  of  the  daughters  of  Z'loph- 
chod had  not  happened,  but  they  were  favored  by  heaven  that 
this  passage  should  be  written  through  them.  The  same  was 
the  case  with  the  wood-gatherer.  Moses  our  master  was  aware 
that  for  the  crime  he  committed  there  is  a  capital  punishment, 
but  he  did  not  know  by  which  of  them  he  should  be  executed; 
and  the  passage  would  have  been  written  through  Moses,  even 
if  the  case  of  the  wood-gatherer  had  not  happened.  But  as  he 
was  guilty,  it  was  written  through  him;  and  this  is  what  is 
meant  by  the  reward  of  virtue,  while  the  chastisement  for  sin 
is  dealt  out  through  a  sinner.  (See  Sabbath,  ist  ed.,  p.  55.) 
Now,  if  it  be  borne  in  mind  that  the  land  of  Israel  was  prepared 
for  division,  why  was  Moses  doubtful?  He  was  doubtful  in 
the  following:  It  is  written  [Ex.  vi.  8]  :  "And  I  will  give  it 
you  for  an  heritage."  Does  this  mean  "  an  heritage  from  the 
parents"?  Hence  a  first-born  has  to  take  a  double  share;  or 
does  it  mean,  "  I  give  it  to  you — you  shall  bequeath  it  to  your 
children  "  (as  the  decree  was,  that  the  persons  ascending  from 

*  The  text  continues  a  discussion  about  the  same  matter,  explaining  the  supposed 
contradiction  of  the  passages,  which  is  of  no  importance,  and  is  therefore  omitted 


262  THE    BABYLOxNIAN    TALMUD. 

Egypt  were  to  die  in  the  desert),  and  the  decision  was  both  that 
the  land  was  a  heritage  from  the  parents  and  yet  not  for  them- 
selves, but  to  bequeath  to  their  children  ?  And  this  is  what  is 
written  [ibid.  xv.  17]  :  "  Bring  them,  and  plant  them."  It  was 
not  said  "  us,"  and  this  was  a  prophecy,  wherein  they  themselves 
did  not  know  they  were  prophesying. 

It  is  written  [Num.  xxviii.  2]  :  '*  And  they  stood  before 
Moses  and  before  Elazar  the  priest,  and  before  the  princes  and 
all  the  congregation."  Is  it  possible  that  when  Moses  did  not 
answer  them  they  were  going  to  complain  before  the  princes? 
Therefore  this  verse  must  be  reversed.  So  said  R.  Jashia. 
Abba  Hanan  in  the  name  of  R.  Elazar  said:  All  of  them  were 
in  the  college  when  they  came  to  make  their  complaint.  And 
the  point  of  their  differing  is:  V,'hether  in  presence  of  the 
master  the  disciple  must  be  honored  or  not.  According  to  one, 
he  may;  and  therefore  he  maintains  that  before  they  came  be- 
fore Moses  they  asked  the  princes,  and  he  who  said  that  this 
verse  must  be  reversed,  maintains  that  all  were  of  the  opinion 
that  in  presence  of  the  master  the  disciple  must  not  be  honored 
with  any  question.  There  is  a  Boraitha  that  the  Halakha  pre- 
vails that  he  may  be  honored.  But  another  Boraitha  states : 
He  may  not.  And  it  presents  no  difificulty.  In  case  the  mas- 
ter himself  honors  the  disciple,  it  may  be  done;  and  in  case  he 
does  not.  it  may  not. 

There  is  a  Boraitha  that  the  daughters  of  Z'lophchod  were 
wise,  understood  lecturing,  and  were  also  upright.  They  were 
wise,  as  their  protest  was  to  the  point.  As  R.  Samuel  b.  R. 
Itz'hak  said  :  At  the  time  when  Moses  our  master  was  sitting  and 
lecturing  about  the  law  of  Yeboom  [Deut.  xxv.  57],  "  If 
brothers  dwell  together."  they  said  to  him :  If  we  are  considered 
as  a  son,  then  let  us  inherit;  and  if  we  are  not  considered  at  all, 
then  let  our  uncle  marry  our  mother.  And  therefore  [Num. 
xxvii.  5]  :  ''  And  Moses  brought  the  cause  before  the  Lord." 
They  understood  lecturing,  as  they  said :  If  he  should  have  a 
son,  we  would  not  say  a  word.  But  there  is  a  Boraitha  that 
they  said:  If  there  should  be  a  daughter.  How  is  this  to  be 
understood?  Said  R.  Jeremiah:  Ignore  the  Boraitha.  Abayi, 
however,  said :  "  It  is  not  necessary  to  ignore  it.  As  they  said : 
If  there  should  be  a  daucrhter  from  a  son,  we  would  not  say  a 
word.     They  were  upright,  in  that  they  each  only  married  him 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  263 

who  was  respectable  and  fit  for  them.  R.  Eliezer  b.  Jacob 
taught :  Even  the  youngest  of  them  was  not  less  than  forty  years 
of  age  when  she  married.  Is  that  so?  Did  not  R.  Hisda  say: 
If  a  woman  marries  at  less  than  twenty  years  of  age  she  bears 
children  until  sixty.  After  twenty  she  bears  until  forty;  but 
when  she  marries  after  forty,  she  does  not  then  bear  children? 
Because  they  were  upright,  a  miracle  happened  to  them,  as  to 
Jochebed,  the  mother  of  Moses.  As  it  is  written  [Ex.  ii.  i]  : 
''  And  there  went  a  man  of  the  house  of  Levi,  and  took  a  daugh- 
ter of  Levi."  Is  it  possible  that  a  woman  of  one  hundred  and 
thirty  years  of  age  should  be  named  daughter?  As  R.  Hama  b. 
Hanina  said :  This  meant  Jochebed,  whose  mother  was  pregnant 
while  on  the  road  to  Egypt,  and  she  was  born  before  the  walls 
(when  they  arrived  in  Egypt).  As  it  is  written  [Num.  xxvi.  59]  : 
"  Jochebed  the  daughter  of  Levi,  whom  (her  mother)  bore  to 
Levi  in  Egypt."  And  why  is  she  named  daughter?  Said  R. 
Jehudah  b.  Zebidah  :  Infer  from  this  that  signs  of  youth  returned 
to  her.  The  wrinkles  disappeared,  the  complexion  became  im- 
proved, and  her  beauty  returned  to  her.  But  why  is  it  written 
"  he  took  "  ?  It  ought  to  read,  "  he  remarried."  Said  R.  Jehu- 
dah b.  Zebidah :  Learn  from  this  that  he  did  with  her  as  if  he 
were  marrying  for  the  first  time :  he  placed  her  under  a  canopy. 
Aaron  and  Miriam  sang  before  her  and  the  angels  said:  "  The 
mother  of  the  children  shall  rejoice." 

Farther  on  the  Scripture  mentions  the  daughters  of  Z'loph- 
chod  according  to  their  age,  and  here  according  to  their  wis- 
dom.* And  this  is  a  support  to  R.  Ami,  who  said:  In  the  col- 
lege the  most  scholarly  has  preference  to  age;  at  a  banquet, 
however,  age  is  considered.  Said  R.  Ashi:  Even  in  college, 
only  he  who  excels  in  wisdom;  and  also  concerning  a  banquet, 
only  he  who  is  of  advanced  age  is  considered  (but  if  one  has  little 
wisdom  and  little  more  age  than  the  others  it  does  not  matter). 

In  the  school  of  R.  Ishmael  it  was  taught :  All  the  daughters 
of  Z'lophchod  were  equal  in  wisdom  (and  that  they  are  men- 
tioned in  the  Scripture  differently  means  nothing). 

R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said :  It  was  permitted  to 
them  to  marry  any  one  of  any  tribe,  as  it  is  written  [Num. 
xxxvi.  6]  :  "  To  those  who  are  pleasing  in  their  eyes  may  they 

*  [Num.  xxvii.  i  :'\  Mahlah,  Noah,  Chaglah,  Milcah,  and  Thirsah,  while  on  the 
occasion  of  their  mariage,  Mahlah,  Thirsah,  Chaglah,  Milcah,  and  Noah  arc  written. 


264  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

become  wives."  But  what  is  to  be  said  of  that  which  is  written 
farther  on:  "  Only  to  the  famil}'  of  their  tribe,"  etc.?  This  is 
to  be  considered  as  a  good  advice — that  they  should  marry  re- 
spectable men  only  who  were  fit  for  them,  and  not  as  a  positive 
commandment. 

Rabba  objected :  It  is  written  [Lev.  xxii.  3]  :  "  Say  unto  them 
.  .  .  in  your  generations."  (How  is  this  to  be  understood?) 
Say  unto  them,  who  were  at  the  mountain  of  Sinai;  and  to  "your 
generations  "  means  that  the  same  law  shall  apply  to  "  all  their 
generations."  But  why  should  it  be  mentioned,  "  the  parents 
and  their  children  "?  Because  there  were  some  commandments 
for  the  parents  only,  and  some  applying  to  children  only.  And 
what  are  the  commandments  to  parents  only?  The  law  [Num. 
xxxvi.  8]  :  "  And  every  daughter  that  inheriteth  any  posses- 
sion," etc.  And  what  are  the  commandments  to  the  children? 
Many,  as  e.g.,  heave-olTering,  tithe,  and  all  others  imposed  upon 
the  land  of  Israel. 

We  see,  then,  that  the  cited  verse  8  prohibited  marriage  to 
other  tribes  at  that  time  only?  Rabba  himself  answered  his 
objection:  The  daughters  of  Z'lophchod  were  not  included  in 
the  commandments  to  the  parents. 

The  mastersays:  "The  commandments  belong  to  the  fathers, 
but  not  to  the  sons.  But  whence  is  this  deduced?  From  [ibid., 
verse  6]  :  '  This  is  the  thing,'  which  means,  '  This  thing  shall  be 
customary  only  in  their  generation.'  So  said  Rabha."  Said 
Rabha  the  minor  (Zuti)  to  R.  Ashi :  According  to  this,  should 
Lev.  xvii.  3,  in  which  the  same  expression  is  used,  also  be  "  for 
their  generation  "  only?  And  he  answered  :  There  it  is  different, 
as  verse  7  reads  plainly:  "A  statute  forever  shall  this  be  unto 
them  throughout  their  generations." 

There  is  a  Mishna  in  Tract  Taanith,  p.  80:  "  Never  were  any 
more  joyous  festivals  in  Israel  than  the  15th  of  Ahb  and  the  Day 
of  Atonement,"  etc.  Why  is  the  15th  of  Ahb  a  festival?  Said 
R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel :  In  their  days  the  tribes  were 
allowed  to  intermarry. 

(Here  is  repeated  from  Taanith,  pp.  91,  92,  q.  v.) 

The  rabbis  taught :  There  were  seven  men  who  encompassed 
the  whole  world  since  its  creation  until  now:  namely,  Mesushe- 
lach  has  seen  Adam  the  first.  Shcm  has  seen  Mesushelach.  Jacob 
has  seen  Shem,  Amram  has  seen  Jacob,  Achiah  the  Shiloni  has 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  265 

seen  Amram;  Elijah  the  prophet  has  seen  Achiah,  and  the  latter 
(Elijah)  is  still  alive.  But  how  can  you  say  Achiah  had  seen 
Amram?  Is  it  not  written  [Num.  xxvi.  65]  :  "  There  was  not 
left  of  them  one  man  save  Caleb  and  Joshua  "  ?  Said  R.  Ham- 
nuna:  The  tribe  of  Levi  was  excluded  from  the  decree  that  all 
should  die  in  the  desert.  As  it  is  written  [ibid.,  xiv.  29]  :  "  In 
this  wilderness  shall  your  carcasses  fall,  and  all  that  were  num- 
bered of  you,  according  to  your  whole  number  from  twenty 
years,"  etc.,  excluding  the  tribe  of  Levi,  of  which  the  number 
was  from  thirty  years.  But  did  not  the  same  happen  to  other 
tribes?  Is  there  not  a  Boraitha  that  Jair  and  Machir,  the  sons 
of  Manasseh  were  born  in  the  time  of  Jacob,  and  did  not  die 
until  after  the  entering  into  the  land  of  Israel?  Said  R.  A'hab. 
Jacob :  In  that  decree,  they  who  were  less  than  twenty,  and  more 
than  sixty  years  old,  were  not  included.* 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question :  How  was  the  land  of 
Israel  divided?  Was  it  divided  into  twelve  parts  for  twelve 
tribes  (and  for  each  tribe  as  a  whole),  or  was  it  divided  severally  ? 
Come  and  hear!  [Num.  xxvi.  56]:  "According  as  they  are 
many  or  few  "  (hence  it  was  divided  among  the  tribes  and  not 
severally).  And  there  is  also  a  Boraitha:  "  In  the  future  the 
land  of  Israel  will  be  divided  among  thirteen  tribes,"  while  in  the 
past  it  was  divided  only  among  twelve;  and  it  was  also  divided 
by  money  (the  explantion  will  be  given  farther  on) ;  and  it  was 
also  divided  only  "  by  lot  "  and  by  the  Urim  v'tumim,  as  it  is 
written  [ibid.,  56]:  "by  the  decision  of  the  lot."  How  so? 
Elazar  was  attired  in  the  Urim  v'tumim.  Joshua  and  all  Israel 
were  standing  by,  and  an  urn  containing  the  names  of  the  tribes, 
and  another,  and  the  names  of  the  boundaries  of  the  land,  were 
placed  there ;  and  Elazar,  influenced  by  the  Divine  Spirit,  would 
say  thus :  "  Zebulon  will  now  come  out  from  the  urn,  and  with 
him  the  boundary  of  Akhu."  And  then  one  of  the  tribe  of 
Zebulon  would  put  his  hand  into  the  urn  and  draw  the  name  of 
his  tribe,  and  then  put  his  hand  into  another  urn  and  draw 
Akhu.  And  then  again  Elazar,  influenced  by  the  Divine  Spirit, 
would  say :  Now  Naphtali  will  come,  and  with  him  the  boundary 
Ginousar.  And  so  it  was  with  each  tribe.  However,  the  divi- 
sion in  the  world  to  come  will  not  be  equal  to  the  division  of 

*  In  the  text  it  is  deduced  by  analogies  of  expression,  and  omitted  as  of  no  iiU' 
portance. 


266  THE    BABYT,OXIA?N    TALMUD. 

land  in  this  world,  as  in  this  world,  usually,  the  lot  of  one  is  a 
field  of  grain,  and  of  another,  one  of  fruits;  but  in  the  world  to 
come,  every  one  will  have  a  share  in  the  mountains,  valleys,  and 
plains.  As  it  is  written  [Ezek.  xlviii.  31]:  "The  gates  of 
Reuben,  one,"  etc.,  which  means  that  every  one  will  have  equal 
land  and  shares,  and  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  Himself  will 
assign  the  shares.  As  it  is  written  [ibid.,  29]  :  "  And  these  are 
their  allotted  division,  said  the  Lord  Eternal."  We  see,  then, 
that  the  Boraitha  states  that  in  the  past  the  division  was  twelve 
parts  to  the  twelve  tribes.  Hence  it  was  divided  among  the 
tribes  and  not  severally.     Infer  from  this  that  so  it  is. 

The  master  said :  The  land  of  Israel  will  be  divided  among 
thirteen  tribes.  Who  will  be  the  thirteenth?  Said  R.  Hisda: 
The  prince  of  Israel  will  be  the  thirteenth.  As  it  is  written 
[ibid.,  19] :  "  And  the  laborer  of  the  city  {i.e.,  the  prince  who 
bears  the  yoke  of  the  whole  city),  whom  men  of  all  the  tribes 
will  serve."  *  Said  R.  Papa  to  Abayi:  But  why  not  say  that  to 
the  prince  would  be  given  a  city  or  the  like,  but  not  a  thirteenth 
share  of  all  the  land  ?-|-  And  he  answered:  This  could  not  be 
borne  in  mind.  As  it  is  written  [ibid.,  21]  :  "  And  the  residue 
shall  belong  to  the  prince,  on  the  one  side  and  on  the  other  of 
the  holy  oblation,  and  of  the  possession  of  the  city,"  etc.  (Hence 
we  see  that  a  share  was  given  to  him  by  all  tribes.) 

The  text  says  farther  on :  "  It  was  divided  by  money."  What 
does  it  mean?  Shall  we  assume  that  he  who  had  good  land 
would  pay  to  him  who  had  inferior  ?  Does  the  Boraitha  treat 
of  fools,  who  take  money  instead  of  good  land?  Therefore  it 
must  be  said  that  money  was  paid  by  those  who  had  shares  near 
to  Jerusalem  to  those  who  took  their  shares  far  from  Jerusalem 
(nearness  to  Jerusalem  being  preferable,  as  it  was  nearer  to  the 
Temple  and  farther  from  the  land  of  the  natives,  therefore  in 
less  danger  than  if  near  to  them).  And  on  this  point  the  follow- 
ing Tanaim  differ.  R.  Eliezer  said  that  they  were  rewarded  with 
money,  and  R.  Joshua  maintains  that  this  reward  was  in  land, 
as,  e.g.,  compared  with  where  a  saah  can  be  sown  nearer  to 
Jerusalem  they  took  five  saahs. 

*  Leaser's  translation  does  not  correspond. 

f  The  text  has  "  Rungur."  The  Aruch  e.xplains  this  as  two  words  of  the  Persian 
language:  "Run"  means  "day,"  and  "gur"  means  "hirer";  and  accordingly 
Rashbam  construes  "day-hirer."  which  does  not  fit  very  well.  We  have  therefore 
translated  in  accordance  with  R.  (Jershom. 


TRACT    BABA   BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  267 

It  says  farther  on:  "  It  was  divided  only  by  lots."  There  is 
a  Boraitha,  "  except  Joshua  and  Caleb."  What  does  it  mean? 
That  they  did  not  take  any  land  at  all?  Is  it  possible?  It  is 
said  above  that  they  took  the  shares  of  the  spies,  etc.  Hence 
they  took  what  did  not  belong  to  them.  So  much  the  more 
what  did  belong  to  them.  It  means  they  did  not  take  by  lots, 
but  by  the  decree  of  heaven.  As  it  is  written  [Joshua,  xix.  50] : 
"  By  the  order  of  the  Lord  did  they  give  him  the  city  which  he 
had  asked — Timnath  Serah  on  the  mountain  of  Ephraim."  And 
Caleb — as  it  is  written  [Judges,  i.  20]  :  "  And  they  gave  Hebron 
unto  Caleb  as  Moses  had  spoken."  But  was  not  Hebron  one  of 
the  cities  of  refuge  ?  It  means  the  suburbs  and  villages  around 
the  city. 

MISHNA  IV,:  A  son  and  daughter  are  equal  concerning  in- 
heritance. However,  a  son  takes  two  shares  of  the  estate  of  his 
father,  but  not  of  the  estate  of  his  mother;  and  the  daughters 
are  fed  from  the  estate  of  their  father,  but  not  from  that  of  their 
mother. 

GEMARA:  What  does  the  Mishna  mean  by  its  statement 
that  they  are  equal  concerning  inheritance?  Shall  we  say  that 
they  inherit  together  ?  Is  it  not  said  above  that  the  son  and  all 
his  descendants  have  preference  over  the  daughter?  Said  R. 
Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak:  It  means  to  say  that  they  are  equal  con- 
cerning an  estate  which  is  not  yet  fit  for  division.  But  have  we 
not  learned  also  this:  That  the  daughters  of  Z'lophchod  took 
three  shares  from  the  estate  of  their  father,  and  when  Z'loph- 
chod died  the  land  was  not  yet  fit  for  division  ?  And,  secondly, 
what  does  the  expression  "however"  mean?  Said  R.  Papa: 
It  means  to  say  that  they  are  equal  in  taking  the  share  of  a  first- 
born. It  means  that  when  a  first-born  died  childless  they  took 
his  share.  But  this  also  was  already  stated  concerning  Z'loph- 
chod; because  he  was  a  first-born,  a  double  share  belonged  to 
him,  which  his  daughters  inherited,  and  in  reference  to  him  also 
we  do  not  know  what  the  expression  "  however "  means. 
Therefore  said  R.  Ashi :  It  means  to  say  that  the  son  and  daugh- 
ter are  equal ;  in  case  one  has  bequeathed  to  him  or  to  her  all 
his  estate,  his  will  must  be  executed.  Is  this  in  accordance  with 
R.  Johanan  b.  Beroka?  This  is  said  farther  on  by  him:  If  one 
has  bequeathed  to  them  who  are  legal  heirs,  his  words  must  be 
listened  to?     And  even  if  one  should  say  that  our  Mishna  is  in 


268  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

accordance  with  R.  Johanan,  and  the  succeeding  Mishna  is  in 
accordance  with  them  who  differ  with  R.  Johanan,  is  it  not  a 
rule  that  in  such  a  case  the  Halakha  does  not  prevail  with  the 
anonymous  Mishna?  And  still,  what  means  the  word  "  how- 
ever "  ?  Therefore  said  Mar  b.  R.  Ashi :  It  means  that  the  son 
and  daughter  are  equal  in  all  cases  concerning  inheritance,  be  it 
the  estate  of  father  or  mother.  However,  there  is  a  difference 
between  them,  that  the  son  takes  two  shares  from  the  estate 
of  the  father,  but  does  not  from  the  estate  of  his  mother." 

The  rabbis  taught:  It  is  written  [Deut.  xxi.  17]  :  "  To  give 
him  a  double  portion,"  which  means  a  double  portion  as  against 
one  brother.  But  perhaps  it  means  a  double  portion  from  all 
the  estate,  and  should  be  discussed  thus :  His  share,  when  he  has 
five  brothers,  should  be  equal  to  that  when  he  has  only  one. 
As  in  the  latter  case  he  takes  two  shares  from  the  whole  estate, 
so  it  should  be  with  the  former.  On  the  other  hand,  it  can  be 
discussed  thus:  His  portion,  when  he  has  five  brothers,  should 
be  equal  to  that  when  he  has  only  one  brother,  in  this  respect, 
that  as  in  the  latter  case  he  takes  twice  as  much  as  his  brother, 
so  it  should  be  in  the  former  case,  that  he  takes  twice  as  much 
as  all  of  them.  Therefore  it  is  written  [ibid.,  16]  "Among  his 
sons,  what  he  hath."  We  see,  then,  that  the  Torah  treats  of  the 
inheritance  as  among  all  one's  sons;  hence  we  have  to  take  the 
second  supposition,  and  not  the  first.  It  is  also  written  [I  Chron. 
V.  i]  :  "  And  the  sons  of  Reuben,  the  first-born  of  Israel,  for  he 
was  the  first-born;  but  when  he  defiled  his  father's  bed,  his  birth- 
right was  given  unto  the  sons  of  Joseph  the  son  of  Israel,  so 
that  the  genealogy  is  not  to  be  reckoned  after  the  first  birth." 
And  it  is  also  written  [ibid.,  11]:  "For  Judah  became  the 
mightiest  of  his  brothers,  and  the  prince  descended  from  him ; 
while  the  first  birthright  belonged  to  Joseph." 

Now  the  case  of  the  first-born  is  mentioned  concerning 
Joseph,  and  also  concerning  generations  ;  as  in  the  case  of 
Joseph,  it  was  only  twice  as  much  as  each  of  the  brothers.  As 
it  is  written  [Gen.  xlviii.  22]  :  "  Moreover,  I  have  given  unto 
thee  one  portion  above  thy  brothers."  So  also  is  it  with  the 
case  mentioned  as  to  generations,  that  the  first-born  should  have 
only  one  portion  more  than  hib  brothers.  It  is  written  farther 
on:  "Which  I  took  out  of  the  hand  of  the  Emorite  with  my 
sword  and  with  my  bow."     Did  he  indeed  take  it  with  sword 


TRACT    BABA   BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  269 

and  bow?  Is  it  not  written  [Ps.  xliv.  7] :  "  For  not  in  my  bow 
will  I  trust,  and  my  sword  shall  not  help  me,"  ?  Therefore  we 
must  explain  that  "  with  his  sword  "  he  means  prayer,  and  "  with 
my  bow  "  supplication. 

To  what  purpose  was  it  necessary  to  cite  all  the  verses  ?  Lest 
one  say  that  the  cited  verse  in  the  above  Boraitha  is  needed  for 
R.  Johanan's  above  theory;  therefore  the  other  cited  verse,  etc. 

Said  R.  Papa  to  Abayi :  How  is  it  inferred  from  the  last  cited 
verse  that  Jacob  gave  Joseph  twice  as  much  as  to  all  his  broth- 
ers ?  Perhaps  he  presented  to  him  only  a  like  estate  ?  And 
he  answered:  To  thy  question  the  Scripture  says  [Gen.  xlviii. 
5]  :  "  Ephraim  and  Manasseh  shall  be  unto  me  as  Reuben  and 
Simeon.  (Hence  we  see  that  he  had  twice  as  much  as  his 
brothers,  who  each  were  counted  as  one  tribe,  and  he  for 
two.) 

R.  Helbo  questioned  R.  Samuel  b.  Na'hmeni :  What  is  the 
reason  that  Jacob  took  away  the  privilege  of  the  first-born  from 
Reuben  and  gave  it  to  Joseph  ?  You  ask  for  the  reason.  Does 
not  the  Scripture  state  the  reason :  "  When  he  defiled  his  father's 
bed"?  I  mean  to  say:  Why  did  he  give  it  to  Joseph?  And 
he  rejoined :  I  will  tell  you  a  parable  to  which  this  case  is  similar: 
There  was  one  who  had  raised  an  orphan  in  his  house.  At  a 
later  period  the  orphan  became  rich,  and  thought,  I  will  recom- 
pense my  benefactor  (because  Joseph  supported  his  father  in  the 
years  of  famine,  therefore  he  recompensed  him).  Said  R.  Helbo 
to  him :  And  how  would  it  be  if  Reuben  had  not  sinned :  then 
Jacob  would  have  given  nothing  to  Joseph?  Thereto  I  shall 
tell  you  what  R.  Jonathan  your  master  said  concerning  this: 
The  first-born  had  to  come  from  Rachel,  As  it  is  written  [ibid., 
37]  :  "  These  are  the  generations  of  Jacob.  Joseph."  But 
Leah  was  preferred  by  virtue  of  her  prayers.  Because  of  the 
very  chastity  of  Rachel,  the  Holy  One,  blessed  be  He,  returned 
it  to  her.  And  what  were  Rachel's  virtues?  As  it  is  written 
[ibid.,  12]  :  "  And  Jacob  told  Rachel  that  he  was  her  father's 
brother,  and  that  he  was  Rebekah's  son."  The  brother  of  her 
father  ?  Was  he  not  the  son  of  her  father's  sister  ?  It  was  thus : 
He  asked  her  whether  she  would  marry  him,  and  she  said,  Yea, 
but  my  father  is  very  shrewd,  and  you  cannot  persuade  him. 
And  to  the  question :  What  does  it  mean  ?  she  answered :  I  have 
a  sister  who  is  older  than  myself,  and  my  father  will  not  give  me 


270  iHE    BA13YL0NIAN    TALMUD. 

to  you  while  she  is  not  married.  Then  he  said  :  I  am  his  brother 
in  shrewdness.  She  then  asked  him :  Is  it,  then,  allowed  to  the 
upright  to  be  shrewd?  And  he  answered :  Yea;  as  it  is  written 
[II  Sam.  xxii.  27]  :  "  With  the  pure  thou  wilt  show  thyself  pure, 
and  with  the  perverse  thou  wilt  wage  a  contest."  And  then  he 
furnished  her  with  some  signs,  that  when  she  should  be  brought 
to  him  he  would  ask  her  for  these  signs,  that  he  might  be  sure 
that  she  was  not  exchanged  for  Leah.  Thereafter,  when  Leah 
was  brought  to  him  instead  of  Rachel,  the  latter  thought,  Now 
Leah  will  be  ashamed,  and  confided  to  her  the  signs.  And  this 
is  what  is  written  [Gen.  xxix.  25] :  "  And  it  came  to  pass  that 
in  the  morning,  behold,  it  w^as  Leah,"  from  which  it  is  to  be 
inferred  that  until  the  morning  he  did  not  know  that  she  was 
Leah,  because  of  the  signs  which  Leah  received  from  Rachel. 

Abba  Halipha  Qruyah  questioned  R.  Hyya  b.  A1)ba :  Of 
Jacob's  children  who  came  to  Egypt  in  sum  you  find  seventy; 
however,  if  you  will  number  them  in  detail,  you  will  find  only 
sixty-nine.  And  he  answered:  There  was  a  twin  with  Dinah. 
As  it  is  written  [ibid.,  xlvi.  15]  :  ''With  Dinah  his  daughter." 
According  to  your  theory  there  was  a  twin  with  Benjamin  also, 
as  the  same  expression  was  used?  He  said  then:  A  valuable 
pearl  was  in  my  hand,  and  you  were  about  to  abstract  it.  So 
said  R.  Hama  b.  Haninah:  This  was  Jochebed,  whose  mother 
was  pregnant,  and  bore  her  before  the  walls  (above,  p.  263). 

R.  Helbo  questioned  again  R.  Samuel  b.  Na'hmeni :  It  is 
written  [Gen.  xxx.  25]  :  "And  it  came  to  pass,  when  Rachel 
had  borne  Joseph,"  etc.  Why  when  Joseph  was  born?  And 
he  answered :  Because  Jacob  our  father  saw  that  the  descendants 
of  Esau  would  become  submissive  to  the  descendants  of  Joseph 
only.  As  it  is  written  [Obadiah,  i.  18]:  "And  the  house  of 
Jacob  shall  be  a  fire,  and  the  house  of  Joseph  a  flame,  and  the 
house  of  Esau  a  stubble."  Helbo  obejcted  to  him  from  [I  Sam. 
xxx.  17]  :  "  And  David  smote  them  from  the  twilight  even  unto 
the  evening  of  next  day,"  etc.  Hence  we  see  that  they  were 
submissive  also  to  David,  who  was  a  descendant  of  Judah,  and 
not  of  Joseph.  Answered  Samuel :  The  one  who  made  you  read 
the  prophets  did  not  do  so  with  the  Hagiographa,  in  which  it  is 
written   [I  Chron.  xii.  21]  *  "And  as  he  was  going  over  to 

*  In   the    Hebrew    I'ib'.e   it   is  verse   21  ;  in   Leeser's,  verr.e   20,  because  he  put 
together  verses  5  and  6. 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA   (LAST    GATE).  271 

Ziklag  .  .  .  captains  of  the  thousands  that  belonged  to 
Manasseh."  Hence  they  were  submissive  to  the  descendants 
of  Joseph.  R.  Joseph  objected  from  [ibid.,  iv.  42  and  43]  : 
"  And  some  of  them,  even  of  the  sons  of  Simeon,  five  hundred 
men,  went  to  mount  Seir,  having  at  their  head  Pelatyah  and 
Nearyah  and  Rephayah,  and  Uzziel,  the  sons  of  Yishi.  And 
they  smote  the  rest  of  the  Amalekites  that  were  escaped,  and 
dwelt  there  unto  this  day."  Said  Rabba  b.  Shila:  Yishi  was  a 
descendant  of  Manasseh.  As  it  is  written  [ibid.,  v.  24]  :  And 
these  were  the  heads  of  their  family  divisions:  namely,  Epher 
and  Yishi." 

The  rabbis  taught :  "  The  first-born  takes  a  double  share  in 
the  shoulders,  in  two  cheeks  and  the  maw,  in  the  consecrated 
things,  and  also  in  the  improvement  of  the  estate  which  was 
improved  after  the  father's  death.  How  so  ?  If  the  father  left 
them  a  cow  which  was  hired  to  others,  or  she  was  pasturing  on 
the  meadow  and  she  brought  forth  offspring,  the  first-born  takes 
a  double  share.  If,  however,  the  heirs  build  houses  or  plant 
orchards,  the  first-born  does  not  take  a  double  share." 

Let  us  see  how  was  the  case  with  the  shoulders,  etc.  If  al- 
ready in  the  father's  hand,  it  is  self-evident;  and  if  not  when  still 
alive,  then  it  was  not  yet  in  existence;  and  there  is  a  rule  that  a 
first-born  does  not  take  a  double  share  in  that  which  is  fit,  but 
not  yet  in  existence?  The  Boraitha  treats  of  a  case  where  the 
priest  has  acquaintaince  among  people  who  usually  give  such 
a  gift  to  him  only,  and  the  cattle  were  slaughtered  while  the 
father  was  still  alive.  And  the  Tana  of  the  Boraitha  holds  that 
the  above  gifts  are  considered  separated  immediately  after 
slaughtering,  although  they  were  not  as  yet  taken  off.  It  states 
farther  on:  If  the  father  left  them  a  cow,  etc.  Let  us  see:  It 
teaches  that  the  first-born  takes  a  double  share,  even  when  it 
was  under  the  control  of  others.  Is  it  not  self-evident  that  so 
much  the  more  does  the  rule  apply  when  It  was  pasturing  on 
the  meadow  under  proper  control  ?  It  comes  to  teach  us  that 
the  case  "  hired  out  to  others  "  should  be  equal  to  pasturing  in 
the  meadow  in  this  respect,  that  the  heirs  not  needing  to  feed  it, 
the  improvement  came  of  itself;  but  not  when  the  heirs  fed  it, 
as  then  the  improvement  would  be  considered  as  made  by  the 
heirs,  of  which  no  double  share  is  given.  And  this  Boraitha  is 
in  accordance  with  Rabbi  of  the  following  Boraitha :  A  first-born 


272  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

does  not  take  a  double  share  in  the  improvement  of  an  estate 
which  was  improved  after  the  father's  death.  Rabbi,  however, 
said:  I  say  that  he  takes,  provided  the  improvements  came  by 
themselves,  but  not  if  improved  by  the  heirs. 

When  they  inherited  a  promissory  note,  the  first-born  took 
a  double  share ;  and  if  there  was  left  a  promissory  note  from  the 
father,  the  first-born  had  to  pay  a  double  share.  If,  however, 
he  says,  "  I  will  not  pay  double  and  also  not  take  a  double 
share,"  he  may  do  so.  What  is  the  reason  of  the  rabbis?  It 
is  written  [Deut.  xxi.  17]  :  "To  give  him  a  double  portion." 
We  see  that  the  Scripture  considers  this  a  gift;  and  a  gift  is  not 
considered  unless  it  comes  to  one's  hand.  The  reason  of  Rabbi 
is,  because  it  is  written  "  a  double  portion."  We  see,  then,  that 
the  Scripture  equals  this  to  an  ordinary  share;  and  as  concerning 
an  ordinary  share  it  is  considered  belonging  to  the  heir  even 
before  it  reaches  his  hand,  the  same  is  the  case  with  the  double 
share. 

Said  R.  Papa:  In  case  the  father  left  a  small  tree,  and  pend- 
ing the  time  of  inheritance  it  became  large;  or  unmanured  earth, 
which  has  improved  by  itself,  all  agree  that  a  double  share  is 
given.  In  what  they  differ  is,  in  a  case  where  the  father  dies 
when  the  seeds  are  as  yet  growing,  and  at  the  time  of  dividing 
the  inheritance  had  been  made  into  sheaves;  or  date-trees  were 
as  yet  blooming,  and  at  the  time  of  dividing  bore  dates.  Ac- 
cording to  one,  it  is  to  be  considered  an  improvement  by  itself; 
and  according  to  the  other,  it  is  considered  changed  to  another 
article,  of  which  a  double  share  is  not  to  be  given. 

Rabba  b.  Hana  in  the  name  of  R.  Hyya  said:  If  one  has 
acted  in  accordance  with  the  decision  of  Rabbi,  the  act  is  valid; 
and  the  same  is  when  he  has  acted  in  accordance  with  the  de- 
cision of  the  sages.  And  the  reason  is  because  R.  Hyya  was 
doubtful  whether  the  Halakha  prevails  with  Rabbi  when  he 
differs  with  an  individual,  or  it  is  so  even  when  he  differs  with  a 
majority  (as  in  this  case  a  majority  differs  with  him).  Hence  it 
cannot  be  considered  a  wrong  act  if  one  has  acted  according  to 
one  of  the  decisions.  Said  R.  Na'hman  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  It 
is  prohibited  to  act  in  accordance  with  Rabbi  [as  he  holds  that 
the  Halakha  prevails  with  Rabbi  against  an  individual  only]. 
R.  Na'hman,  however,  liimself  maintains  that  it  is  permitted  to 
act  in  accordance  with  Rabbi  [as  he  holds  that  the  Halakha  pre- 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  273 

vails  with  Rabbi  even  against  a  majority].  Said  Rabha:  It  is 
prohibited  to  act  in  accordance  with  Rabbi  to  start  with ;  how- 
ever, if  one  did  so,  his  act  is  vahd  [and  his  reason  is,  that  in  such 
a  case  where  Rabbi  differs  with  the  majority,  the  college  has  to 
teach  in  accordance  with  the  majority  to  start  with,  but  it 
cannot  compel  the  one  who  acted  in  accordance  with  Rabbi  to 
ignore  his  act]. 

It  was  taught:  R.  Na'hman  taught  in  the  Mechilta  and 
Siphre,  it  is  written  [Deut.  xxi.  17]  :  "  Of  all  that  is  found  in  his 
possession,"  means  to  exclude  the  improvement  which  was 
made  by  the  heirs  after  the  father's  death,  but  not  that  which 
improved  by  itself.  And  this  is  in  accordance  with  Rabbi. 
Rami  b.  Hama,  however,  taught  in  the  above-mentioned  books 
that  it  excludes  that  which  improved  by  itself,  and  so  much  the 
more  that  which  was  improved  by  the  heirs.  And  this  is  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  sages. 

R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  A  first-born  does 
not  take  a  double  share  in  a  loan.  According  to  whom  is  it? 
It  cannot  be  in  accordance  with  the  rabbis,  as  they  exclude  him 
even  from  an  improvement  which  is  under  the  heirs'  control; 
so  much  less  of  a  thing  which  is  not  under  their  control.  It 
must  then  be  said  that  this  is  in  accordance  with  Rabbi.  But 
then  the  Boraitha  which  states :  "  If  they  inherit  a  promissory 
note,  the  first-born  takes  a  double  share  in  the  loan,  as  well  as  in 
the  interest,"  wih  not  be  in  accordance  with  both  the  rabbis  and 
Rabbi.  It  may  be  that  Samuel's  statement  is  in  accordance 
with  the  sages;  and  nevertheless  he  has  to  teach  this,  lest  one 
say,  because  he  holds  the  promissory  note  in  his  hand,  it  is  to 
be  considered  as  already  collected,  he  comes  to  teach  us  that  it 
is  not  so. 

*'  A  message  was  sent  from  Palestine,  that  he  takes  a  double 
share  in  the  loan,  but  not  in  the  interest."  According  to  whom 
is  this?  It  cannot  be  in  accordance  with  the  rabbis,  for  the 
reason  stated  above;  and  also  not  in  accordance  with  Rabbi, 
who  states  in  a  Boraitha  that  he  takes  a  double  share  in  the  loan, 
as  well  as  in  the  interest  ?  It  is  in  accordance  with  the  sages ; 
but  the  Palestinians  hold  that  a  note  is  considered  as  already 
collected. 

Said  R.  A'ha  b.  Rabh  to  Rabhina :  Amimar  happened  to  be 
C  our  city,  and  lectured :  ''  A  first-born  takes  a  double  share 


274  THE   BABYLOxNIAN    TALMUD. 

in  a  loan,  but  not  in  the  interest  thereof.  And  Rabhina  an- 
swered: The  Nahardeans  are  in  accordance  with  their  theory 
elsewhere  (both  Amimar  and  R.  Na'hman  were  from  Nahar- 
dea),  as  in  such  a  case  Rabba  said  that  if  the  heirs  recovered  real 
estate  on  a  loan  of  their  father  a  double  share  is  given,  but  not 
if  they  collected  money.  R.  Na'hman,  however,  holds  the  re- 
verse :  A  double  share  is  given  if  money  is  collected,  but  not  on 
real  estate.  Said  Abayi  to  Rabba :  There  is  a  difficulty  concern- 
ing your  decision,  and  also  concerning  the  decision  of  R.  Na'h- 
man. Concerning  your  decision,  the  reason  of  which  is  to  be 
supposed  that  their  father  left  to  them  not  this  money  now  col- 
lected, as  he  left  a  promissory  note  only;  but  why  should  it  not 
be  the  same  with  the  estate?  Did,  then,  their  father  leave  real 
estate  to  them?  Moreover,  you,  master,  said  that  the  reason 
given  by  the  Palestinians  concerning  the  case  of  a  certain  old 
woman  (stated  farther  on)  seems  to  you  a  right  one,  and  this 
certainly  contradicts  your  present  decision.  And  concerning 
R.  Na'hman's  there  is  also  the  same  difficulty,  as  his  reason  must 
be  that  there  is  no  double  share  from  the  collected  estate,  be- 
cause they  did  not  inherit  it  from  their  father.  Why  should  it 
not  be  the  same  with  money,  as  the  collected  money  was  not  of 
the  inheritance  of  their  father.  Moreover,  did  not  R.  Na'hman 
say  in  the  name  of  Rabba  b.  Abuhu,  that  if  orphans  have  recov- 
ered real  estate  for  a  debt  to  their  father,  and  there  was  a  credi- 
tor to  whom  their  father  was  indebted,  the  creditor  might  take 
away  the  estate  which  they  recovered?  (Hence  he  (R.  Na'h- 
man) considers  the  recovered  estate  as  if  left  by  the  deceased — 
why,  then,  should  there  not  be  given  a  double  share?)  An- 
swered Rabba  :There  is  no  difficulty  concerning  my  statement, 
nor  concerning  R.  Na'hman's,  as  we  both  have  pointed  out  only 
the  reason  of  the  Palestinians  by  which,  according  to  my 
theory,  a  double  share  is  given  from  real  estate,  but  not  for 
money;  and  to  R.  Na'hman's  it  is  the  reverse.  But  our  own 
opinion  is,  that  neither  from  real  estate  nor  from  money  is  a 
double  share  given. 

What  was  the  case  of  the  old  woman,  mentioned  above? 
There  was  one  who  wrote  in  his  will :  "  My  estate  shall  be  given 
to  my  old  grandmother,  but  after  her  death  it  shall  belong  to 
fny  heirs."  The  deceased  had  a  married  daughter,  who  died 
while  her  husband  and  the  deceased  grandmother  were  still 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  275 

alive;  and  her  husband,  after  the  death  of  the  old  woman,  de- 
manded the  estate  of  his  father-in-law,  which  was  in  the  hand 
of  his  grandmother.  And  R.  Huna's  decision  was:  His  claim  is 
right,  as  the  will  states,  "  After  her,  my  heirs  shall  inherit  it," 
which  is  to  be  explained,  "  My  heirs,  and  the  heirs  of  my  heirs." 
R.  Anan's  decision,  however,  was :  His  claim  is  not  to  be  con- 
sidered, as  the  will  states,  "  to  my  heirs,"  and  he  was  not  his  heir, 
but  the  heir  of  his  daughter.  And  the  Palestinians  sent  a  mes- 
sage: The  Halakha  prevails  with  R.  Anan,  but  not  for  his  rea- 
son, as,  according  to  his  reason,  even  should  his  daughter  leave 
a  son,  he  would  also  not  inherit;  and  this  is  not  so,  as  the  reason 
why  the  husband  could  not  inherit  is,  that  the  law  that  the  hus- 
band inherits  from  his  wife  holds  good  only  when  she  left  real 
estate,  but  not  such  an  estate  as  was  not  as  yet  in  her  hands,  but 
to  come,  which  is  not  the  case  with  a  son,  who  inherits  this  also. 

But  shall  we  assume  that  R.  Huna  holds  that  one  may  inherit 
even  an  estate  which  was  not  as  yet  in  the  hands  of  his  wife? 
Said  R.  Elazar :  This  case  was  discussed  by  great  men,  and  the 
final  decision,  with  its  reason,  will  be  rendered  by  a  small  man 
like  my  humble  self.  Every  one  who  says  "  after  thee  "  is  to 
be  considered  as  if  he  were  to  say  "  from  to-day  "  (i.e.,  the  above 
will  states  "  after  her,"  which  means  the  estate  shall  belong  to 
"  my  heirs  from  to-day,  but  they  are  not  to  use  the  products 
so  long  as  the  old  woman  is  alive  ").  Rabba,  however,  said:  It 
seems  to  me  that  the  reason  given  by  the  Palestinians  is  good 
as,  according  to  that  will,  if  the  old  woman  should  sell  the 
estate,  the  sale  would  be  valid. 

R.  Papa  said :  The  Halakha  prevails  that  a  husband  does  not 
inherit  a  property  which  was  to  come  in  the  future  to  his  wife, 
and  the  same  is  the  case  with  a  first-born.  He — the  first-born — 
also  does  not  take  a  double  share  in  a  recovered  loan,  in  real 
estate  or  money;  and,  furthermore,  if  the  first-born  owes  money 
to  his  father,  the  share  which  belongs  to  a  first-born  is  to  be 
divided,  half  to  himself  and  the  other  half  to  his  brothers.  (The 
reason  is,  according  to  Rashbam,  because  this  share  is  con- 
sidered doubtful  money,  as  it  is  not  certain  that  the  first-born 
is  to  be  considered  an  occupant  with  respect  to  it,  the  supposi- 
tion being  that  he  has  mortgaged  all  his  estate  for  this  debt  to 
his  father  for  the  purpose  that,  in  case  of  his  father's  death,  he 
should  take  a  double  share.     And  there  is  a  rule  that  doubtful 


276  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

money  is  to  be  divided.  And  according  to  Gershom,  the  reason 
is  because  this  loan  is  not  to  be  compared  with  the  loan  of  a 
stranger,  as  he  who  is  an  heir  is  also  an  occupant  with  respect 
to  this  debt,  and  this  gives  him  title  to  a  half  of  the  share  in 
question.) 

Said  R.  Huna  in  the  name  of  R.  Assi :  If  the  first-born  pro- 
tests when  his  brothers  come  to  improve  the  estate  left  by  their 
father,  saying:  "  They  shall  delay  improvement  until  after  divi- 
sion," this  protest  must  be  considered  in  case  they  have  not 
listened  to  him,  and  he  takes  a  double  share  in  the  improvement 
also.  Said  Rabba :  The  decision  given  by  R.  Assi  seems  to  me 
right  in  case,  e.g.,  they  inherited  vines,  and  the  improvement 
was  by  gathering  the  grapes  from  the  vines;  or  they  inherited 
olives,  and  took  them  off  from  the  trees :  but  if  they  made  wine 
or  oil  thereof,  the  protest  is  not  to  be  considered.  R.  Joseph, 
however,  maintains:  Also  in  the  latter  case,  it  is  to  be  consid- 
ered. Why  ?  They  inherited  grapes,  and  now  it  is  wine  !  As 
R.  Uqba  b.  Hama  said  elsewhere :  It  means  he  shall  receive  a 
double  share  of  the  value  of  the  grapes.  The  same  is  the  case 
here.  I.e.,  if  it  happened  that  the  vine  was  of  less  value  than  the 
grapes,  he  might  claim  his  double  share  in  the  grapes,  as  he  has 
protested  that  wine  be  not  made  of  them.  And  where  did  Uqba 
say  this?  In  reference  to  the  statement  of  R.  Jehudah  in  the 
name  of  Samuel,  that  if  a  first-born  and  his  brother  have  in- 
herited vines  or  olives,  and  gathered  them,  the  first-born  takes 
a  double  share  of  them,  even  when  they  were  pressed.  Pressed ! 
Were  they  not  first  grapes,  and  now  wine  ?  Mar  Uqba  b.  Hama 
explained  that  it  means  that  the  first-born  receives  his  full 
double  share  of  the  value  of  the  grapes,  as  explained  above. 

R.  Assi  said :  If,  at  the  dividing,  the  first-born  took  an  equal 
share  with  his  other  brother,  it  is  to  be  considered  that  he  has 
relinquished  his  right.  R.  Papa  in  the  name  of  Rabha  said :  He 
has  relinquished  his  right  in  the  divided  estate  only.  R.  Papi 
in  the  name  of  Rabha,  however,  said :  It  is  to  be  considered  that 
he  has  relinquished  his  right  on  all  the  estates.  The  reason  of 
the  former  is  because  he  holds  that  the  first-born  has  nothing 
until  the  estate  is  divided.  Therefore  he  can  relinquish  his  right 
only  in  the  divided  ones.  And  the  latter  holds  that  as  soon  as 
the  father  dies  the  double  share  belongs  to  the  first-born,  even 
before  division.     And  therefore,  as  he  has  relinquished  his  right 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA   (LAST    GATE).  277 

in  the  divided  estate,  so  has  he  done  with  all  others.  Both  state- 
ments, however,  were  not  said  by  Rabha  plainly,  but  were  in- 
ferred from  the  following  act :  There  was  a  first-born  who  sold 
all  the  estate  belonging  to  him  and  his  brother.  The  orphans 
of  his  brother  were  going  to  eat  dates  of  the  estate  belonging  to 
their  father,  which  was  in  the  possession  of  the  buyers,  who 
struck  them.  Their  relatives  said  to  the  buyers:  It  is  not 
enough  for  you  that  you  have  bought  their  estate  without  the 
consent  of  the  father  and  the  orphans,  you  dare  to  strike  them. 
And  the  case  came  before  Rabha,  who  decided  that  the  act  of 
the  first-born  was  null  and  void.  R.  Papi  explained  that  it 
means  he  did  nothing  with  the  share  belonging  to  the  ordinary 
brother,  but  concerning  his  own  share,  the  sale  was  valid;  and 
R.  Papa  explained  the  decision  of  Rabha,  that  the  whole  sale 
was  null  and  void,  because  the  first-born  had  nothing  in  the 
estate  before  it  was  divided. 

A  message  was  sent  from  Palestine :  If  a  first-born  sold  out 
before  division,  he  did  nothing.  Hence  they  hold  that  the  first- 
born had  nothing  before  the  division.  The  Halakha,  however, 
prevails  that  he  has.  Mar  Zutra  of  Drishba  had  divided  a  bas- 
ket of  pepper  with  his  brothers,  and  took  an  equal  share,  though 
he  was  a  first-born;  and  when  the  case  came  before  R.  Ashi,  he 
decided  that  as  he  relinquished  his  right  concerning  the  pepper, 
it  was  also  relinquished  on  all  other  property. 

MISHNA  V. :  If  one  said  in  his  will,  "  My  son  so  and  so, 
who  is  a  first-born,  shall  not  take  a  double  share,"  or,  "  My  son 
so  and  so  shall  not  inherit  at  all  with  his  brothers,"  he  said  noth- 
ing, as  this  provision  is  against  the  law  in  the  Scripture.  If, 
however,  he  has  divided  all  his  goods  in  his  verbal  w^ill,  and  to 
some  of  his  heirs  he  has  bequeathed  more  and  to  some  less,  also 
equalizing  the  first-born,  his  will  is  valid,  provided  he  has  not 
mentioned  In  his  will  the  word  "  Inheritance."  But  if  he  said 
"  because  of  inheritance,"  it  is  not  to  be  considered.  If  there 
was  a  written  will  in  which,  in  the  beginning,  middle,  or  end, 
was  mentioned  "  a  gift,"  all  that  it  contains  is  to  be  Hstened  to. 

GEMARA :  Shall  we  assume  that  our  MIshna  Is  not  in  ac- 
cordance with  R.  Jehudah,  who  said  In  Tract  Kedushin  that  a 
condition  against  the  law  in  the  Scripture,  If  In  money  matters, 
may  be  listened  to?  This  Mishna  can  be  even  in  accordance 
with  him,  as  in  that  case  the  woman  was  aware  of  the  law,  but 


«78  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

relinquished  her  right.  In  our  case,  however,  no  one  has  re- 
linquished. 

R.  Joseph  said:  "  If  one  said  in  his  will,  'My  son  so  and  so 
is  my  first-born,'  he  takes  a  double  share.  If,  however,  he  said, 
'  My  son  so  and  so  is  a  first-born,'  he  does  not,  as  perhaps  it  was 
meant  he  was  a  first-born  to  his  mother."  There  was  one  who 
came  before  Rabba  b.  b.  Hana  as  a  witness  that  he  was  certain 
so  and  so  was  a  first-born.  And  to  the  question :  Whence  do 
you  know  it?  he  answered:  Because  his  father  called  him  "  the 
first-born  fool."  And  he  said :  This  is  no  evidence,  as  people 
used  to  name  a  first-born  to  his  mother  first-born  fool  (i.e.,  a 
first-born  without  right). 

It  happened  that  anothercame  before  R.  Hanina  as  a  witness 
for  a  first-born,  and  to  the  question:  Whence  do  you  know  it? 
he  answered :  His  father  used  to  say,  "  Go  to  Sh'kh'at  my  son, 
who  is  a  first-born,  whose  spittle  cures  eyes."  But  perhaps  he 
meant  a  first-born  to  his  mother?  There  is  a  tradition  that  a 
first-born  of  the  father  cures,  and  a  first-born  to  his  mother  does 
not. 

R.  Ami  said :  If  born  arfxtjToi,  and  after  perforation  found 
to  be  a  male,  he  does  not  take  a  double  share,  as  it  is  written 
[Deut.  xxi.  15],  "first-born  son,"  which  means  a  son  when 
born.  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak  said  that  also  the  law  of  ibid.,  ibid. 
18  does  not  apply  to  him.  Amimar  said  :  Such  is  not  considered 
an  heir  at  all,  so  that  his  share  is  not  to  be  reckoned,  and  does 
not  diminish  the  double  share  for  the  first-born.  R.  Shezby 
said :  He  must  also  not  be  circumcised  on  the  eighth  day.  And 
R.  Shrabyah  said:  The  law  [Lev.  xii.  2]  does  also  not  apply  to 
such  (as  in  all  the  cited  verses  it  reads  a  son  or  a  male  child). 
Said  Rabha:  There  is  a  Boraitha  in  accordance  with  R.  Ami: 
It  is  written  a  son,  but  not  arjur^To^j  a  first-born,  but  not  a 
doubtful  one.  What  does  the  latter  part  mean  to  exclude? 
That  which  Rabha  lectured :  If  two  wives  of  one  have  born  two 
sons  in  a  secret  place  which  was  dark,  and  it  is  not  known  who 
was  born  first,  they  may  write  a  power  of  attorney  each  to  the 
other  {i.e.,  if  I  am  the  first-born,  I  authorize  you  to  take  the 
double  share  for  me;  and  if  you  are,  then  take  it  for  yourself. 
And  then  one  of  them  collects  the  double  share  and  divides  it 
with  the  other.  Said  R.  Papa  to  Rabha:  But  did  not  Rabbin 
send  a  message :  I  have  questioned  all  my  masters  about  the  law 


TRACT    BAB  A    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  279 

in  this  case,  and  could  get  no  answer  from  any  of  them;  but  it 
was  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Janai  that  if  they  were  recognized, 
and  afterward  they  were  mixed  up  again,  then  the  stated  power 
of  attorney  is  to  be  written,  but  not  otherwise.  Then  Rabha 
took  an  interpreter  and  announced  in  college :  That  which  I 
said  in  my  first  lecture  was  an  error,  as  in  the  name  of  R.  Janai 
was  said  thus:  That  if  they  were  already  recognized  and  after- 
ward mixed,  then  the  above-mentioned  power  of  attorney 
should  be  given  to  each  by  the  other,  etc. 

The  inhabitants  of  a  village  situated  in  a  meadow  sent  the 
following  question  to  Samuel :  Master,  teach  us  where  it  was 
certain  to  the  people  that  so  and  so,  from  the  children  of  so 
and  so,  was  a  first-born.  Their  father,  however,  said  that  an- 
other was  the  first-born.  How  is  the  law?  And  his  answer 
was :  They  should  write  the  above-mentioned  power,  one  to  the 
other. 

According  to  whom  was  Samuel's  decision?  If  he  holds  in 
accordance  with  R.  Jehudah,  let  him  say  so;  and  if  in  accordance 
with  the  rabbis,  let  him  say  so?  He  was  in  doubt  according  to 
whom  the  Halakha  prevails.  And  wherein  is  their  differing? 
The  following  Boraitha:  It  is  written  [ibid.,  ibid.  17]  :  "  Shall 
he  acknowledge,"  which  means,  he  shall  introduce  him  to  others 
(which  is  superfluous,  this  being  already  written  in  the  previous 
verse).  From  this  said  R.  Jehudah :  One  is  to  be  trusted  if  he 
testifies,  "  This  is  my  first-born  son."  And  as  he  is  trusted  con- 
cerning a  first-born,  so  is  he  also  to  be  trusted  to  testify,  "  This 
is  a  son  of  a  divorced  woman,"  and  of  lost  priesthood.  The 
sages,  however,  say  that  he  is  not  trusted.  Said  R.  Na'hman 
b.  Itz'hak  to  Rabha:  According  to  R.  Jehudah's  theory,  the 
above-cited  verse  is  right;  but  according  to  the  rabbis,  to  what 
purpose  is  it  written?  That  in  case  of  a  doubt  the  father's 
acknowledgment  is  needed  (but  in  a  case  of  certainty  to  the 
people  that  one  was  a  first-born,  the  father  is  not  trusted  in 
denying  it).  But  to  what  does  such  a  law  apply?  If  concern- 
ing a  double  share,  even  if  he  was  not  a  first-born,  has  the  father 
not  a  right  to  bequeath  him  a  double  share  in  the  manner  of  a 
gift?  It  means,  in  case  the  father  acquired  estates  after  ac- 
knowledgment (i.e.,  if  he  is  to  be  trusted,  the  acknowledged 
first-born  takes  a  double  share;  and  if  not,  he  does  not).  But 
according  to  R.  Meier,  who  said  that  one  may  grant  a  thing 


28o  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

not  yet  in  existence,  to  what  purpose  is  the  above  verse  writ- 
ten ?  If  property  came  to  him  while  he  was  struggHng  with 
death. 

The  rabbis  taught :  If  one  was  known  to  the  people  as  a  first- 
born, and  his  father  said  of  another,  that  he  was  the  first-born, 
he  is  to  be  trusted ;  and  if  one  was  known  to  the  people  as  not  a 
first-born,  his  father,  however,  testifying  that  he  is,  he  is  not  to 
be  trusted.  The  first  part  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Jehudah, 
and  the  latter  with  the  rabbis.  R.  Johanan  said :  If  he  has  tes- 
tified, "  He  is  my  son,"  and  thereafter  said,  "  He  is  my  bonds- 
man," he  is  not  to  be  trusted.  If,  however,  he  testified,  "  He 
is  my  bondsman,"  and  thereafter,  "  He  is  my  son,"  he  is  to  be 
trusted;  as  the  first  testimony  is  to  be  considered  as  if  he  should 
say,  "  He  serves  me  like  a  bondsman."  The  reverse  is  the  case 
when  at  the  house  of  taxes.  If  he  said  before  the  ofificers,  "  He 
is  my  son,"  and  afterwards,  "  my  bondsman,"  he  is  to  be  trusted, 
as  the  first  statement  was  to  avoid  the  payment  of  taxes  for  his 
slave ;  but  if  he  said  before  the  officers,  "  He  is  my  bondsman," 
and  thereafter,  "  my  son,"  he  is  not  to  be  trusted.  An  objec- 
tion was  raised  from  the  following :  If  he  has  served  him  like  a 
son,  and  he  acknowledged  him  as  such,  and  thereafter  he  said, 
"  he  is  my  bondsman,"  he  is  not  to  be  trusted ;  and  the  same  is 
the  case  if  he  has  served  him  like  a  bondsman,  and  was  acknowl- 
edged by  him  as  such,  and  thereafter  he  said,  "  He  is  my  son  " : 
he  is  not  to  be  trusted.  (Hence  this  contradicts  R.  Johanan.) 
Said  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak:  The  Boraitha  treats  of  when  he 
was  called  "  the  slave  who  costs  me  a  hundred  zuz/'  and  such 
a  thing  a  father  would  not  say  of  his  son. 

R.  Abba  sent  a  message  to  R.  Joseph  b.  Hama :  If  one  says, 
"  You  have  stolen  my  slave,"  and  the  defendant  says,  "  I  have 
not,"  and  to  the  question,  "  What,  then,  is  he  doing  with  you?  " 
the  defendant  answers,  "  They  sold  him  to  me,"  or  "  gave  him 
to  me  as  a  present;  and  if  you  wish,  take  an  oath  that  it  was  not 
so,  and  then  you  can  take  him."  And  if  the  plaintiff  did  so 
(although,  according  to  the  law,  the  plaintiff  had  no  right  to 
take  him  with  an  oath,  and  for  the  defendant  no  other  evidence 
or  oath  is  necessary,  if  he  would  not  say  so),  the  defendant  has 
no  right  to  retract  from  his  previous  words. 

What  news  came  he  to  teach  us?  This  we  have  already 
learned  in  a  Mishna   (Sanh.  III.,  2)?      He  comes  to  teach  that 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  281 

the  differing  of  R.  Meier  and  the  sages  is  in  a  case  equal  to 
our  case,  and  the  Halakha  prevails  in  accordance  with  the 
sages. 

The  same  R.  Abba  sent  a  message  to  the  same  R.  Joseph : 
The  Halakha  prevails  that  a  creditor  may  collect  from  bonds- 
men belonging  to  orphans  for  their  father's  debt.  R.  Na'h- 
man,  however,  said :  He  must  not. 

The  former  sent  another  message  to  the  same :  The  Halakha 
prevails  that  to  a  second-cousin  a  third-cousin  may  be  a  witness 
(according  to  the  law,  relatives  must  not  be  witnesses,  and  Abba 
comes  to  teach  that  a  third  to  a  second-cousin,  which  means  a 
great-grandson  to  a  grandson,  is  not  considered  a  relative  in 
this  respect).  Rabha,  however,  said :  The  third-cousin  is  com- 
petent as  a  witness  even  to  the  first-cousin.  Mar.  b.  R.  Ashi 
had  accepted  a  grandfather  as  a  witness :  the  Halakha,  however, 
does  not  prevail  with  him.  The  same  sent  another  message  to 
the  same:  If  one  can  witness  about  an  estate,  and  he  became 
blind,  he  is  no  longer  competent  as  a  witness  in  the  case. 
Samuel,  however,  maintains  that  he  is,  as  it  is  still  possible  for 
him  to  mark  the  boundaries;  but  concerning  a  garment,  he  is 
not.  R,  Shesheth,  however,  maintains  that  even  in  case  of  a 
garment  he  is  still  competent,  as  he  may  mark  the  width  and 
the  length  of  the  garment;  but  not  in  a  piece  of  metal.  R.  Papa, 
however,  maintains  that  even  in  such  a  case  he  is  still  competent, 
as  he  may  be  aware  of  the  weight. 

An  objection  was  raised :  If  one  were  cognizant  of  a  case  be- 
fore he  became  a  son-in-law  to  one  of  the  parties,  and  the  case 
came  before  the  court  after  he  became  a  son-in-law ;  or  he  was 
cognizant  of  the  case  when  he  was  still  in  good  health,  and  after- 
ward became  dumb,  blind,  or  insane,  he  is  not  competent  as  a 
witness.  But  if  he  was  cognizant  of  the  case  before  becoming 
a  son-in-law,  and  thereafter  married  a  daughter,  but  she  died 
before  the  case  came  before  the  court;  or  he  was  in  good 
health  when  he  became  cognizant  of  the  case,  and  also  when 
it  came  before  the  court,  but  in  the  time  between  he  be- 
came dumb,  blind,  etc.,  and  cured,  he  is  fit  to  be  a  witness. 
This  is  the  rule:  If  in  the  beginning  or  the  end  of  the  case  he 
was  not  competent,  his  testimony  is  not  to  be  considered;  but  if 
he  was  competent  both  at  the  beginning  and  the  end,  but  not 
in  the  time  between,  his  testimony  holds  good.     This  opposes 


282  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

the  statements  of  all  the  Amoraim  as  above,  and  the  objection 
remains. 

R.  Abba  sent  another  message  to  R.  Joseph  b.  Hama:  If  one 
say,  "  Of  one  child  among  the  others,"  he  is  to  be  trusted.  R. 
Johanan,  however,  says:  He  is  not.  What  does  this  mean? 
Said  Abayi :  If  one  says,  "  This  child  shall  inherit  all  my  estates," 
he  is  to  be  listened  to  in  accordance  with  R.  Johanan  b.  Beroka. 
R.  Johanan,  however,  says:  He  is  not  to  be  listened  to,  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  rabbis.  Rabha,  however,  opposed :  Does  the 
message  say  he  shall  or  shall  not  "  inherit  "?  It  says  "  trusted." 
Therefore  he  explained  it  thus:  "  If  one  testifies  to  one  child 
among  his  children  that  he  is  the  first-born,  he  is  to  be  trusted, 
in  accordance  with  R.  Jehudah.  R.  Johanan,  however,  says: 
He  is  not  to  be  trusted,  in  accordance  with  the  rabbis.  The 
same  sent  another  message  to  the  same.  If  one  said  in  his  will, 
"  My  wife  shall  take  an  equal  share  in  my  estates  with  one  of 
my  sons,"  he  is  to  be  listened  to.  Said  Rabha:  It  holds  good 
only  concerning  the  estate  in  possession  when  the  will  was  made, 
but  not  concerning  the  estate  bought  thereafter,  and  also  that 
she  takes  an  equal  share  with  one  of  his  children  at  the  time  of 
dividing  (i.e.,  if  his  children  increased  in  number  after  the  will 
was  made,  she  takes  her  share  accordingly,  but  not  according 
to  the  number  of  children  at  the  time  the  will  was  made).  The 
same  sent  another  message  to  the  same :  If  one  holds  in  his 
hands  a  promissory  note,  saying,  "  Nothing  was  paid,"  but  the 
borrower  say,  "  The  half  is  paid,"  and  witnesses  testify  that  the 
whole  amount  is  paid,  the  borrower  has  to  take  an  oath  that  he 
paid  the  half,  and  then  the  lender  may  collect  the  other  half  from 
unencumbered,  but  not  from  encumbered  estate,  as  the  people 
by  whom  the  estate  is  encumbered  may  claim,  "  We  rely  upon 
the  witnesses  that  the  whole  amount  is  paid."  And  even  accord- 
ing to  R.  Aqiba  (Middle  Gate,  p.  5),  the  borrower  may  be  con- 
sidered as  one  who  returns  a  lost  thing — that  is,  if  there  are  no 
witnesses;  but  if  there  are,  R.  Aqiba  also  admits  that  a  half  must 
be  paid,  as  it  is  to  be  supposed  that  the  borrower  has  admitted 
the  half  when  he  has  seen  that  there  are  witnesses,  and  he  did 
not  know  whether  they  were  for  or  against  him,  and  therefore 
he  admitted  a  half.  Mar.  b.  R.  Ashi  opposed:  Even  in  accord- 
ance with  R.  Simeon  b,  Elazar,  who  said  that  the  admission  is 
to  be  considered,  as  an  admission  in  part,  to  which  an  oath  is 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  283 

given  biblically,  it  is  only  when  there  are  no  witnesses  who  sup- 
port him ;  but  not  in  this  case,  where  witnesses  support  him :  he 
is  certainly  considered  as  if  he  returned  a  lost  thing.  Mar  Zutra 
in  the  name  of  R.  Simeon  b.  Ashi  lectured :  The  Halakha  pre- 
vails in  accordance  with  all  messages  that  were  sent  by  R.  Abba 
to  R.  Joseph  b.  Hama.  Said  Rabhina  to  R.  Ashi :  But  does  not 
R.  Na'hman  oppose  one  of  the  above  messages  (and  there  is  a 
rule  that  the  Halakha  prevails  with  R.  Na'hman  concerning 
money  matters)  ?  And  he  answered :  We  read  the  above  mes- 
sage :  It  must  not  be  collected;  and  so  also  said  R.  Na'hman.  If 
so,  what  does  Mar  Zutra  mean  to  exclude  by  his  statement  that 
the  Halakha  prevails  with  all  the  messages?  It  cannot  mean 
Rabha's  above  statement,  as  he  does  not  oppose,  but  explain; 
and  also  not  Mar  b.  R.  Ashi's,  who  said  that  a  grandfather  is 
competent  as  a  witness.  It  is  already  said  there  that  the  Halakha 
does  not  prevail  with  him.  And  should  we  say  that  it  means 
to  exclude  Samuel's,  R.  Shesheth's,  and  R.  Papa's  concerning 
witnesses  who  were  not  competent  at  the  time  the  cases  came 
before  the  court,  they  also  were  already  objected?  Therefore, 
we  must  say  he  came  to  exclude  R.  Johanan's  statement,  and 
the  opposition  of  Mar  b.  R.  Ashi  as  above. 

"  //  it  was  mentioned  in  the  beginning,"  etc.  How  is  this 
to  be  illustrated?  When  R.  Dimi  came  from  Palestine,  he 
said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan :  "  There  shall  be  given  such 
and  such  a  field  to  so  and  so,  who  shall  inherit  it  " — this  is 
considered  as  if  "  gift  "  were  written  in  the  beginning.  "  So 
and  so  shall  inherit  such  and  such  a  field,  and  it  shall  be 
given  to  him  " — this  is  a  gift  in  the  end.  "  He  shall  inherit, 
and  it  shall  be  given  to  him  to  inherit  " — this  is  considered 
"  gift  "  in  the  middle.  This,  however,  is  if  there  were  one 
man  and  one  field — i.e.,  "  Such  and  such  a  field  shall  be  given 
to  A,  and  he  shall  inherit  " ;  but  if  it  was  written,  "  The  field 
on  the  east  side  shall  be  given  to  A,  and  he  shall  also  inherit 
such  on  the  west  side,"  that  concerning  which  inheritance  is 
mentioned  is  not  to  be  considered,  as  it  is  against  the  biblical 
law.  The  same  is  the  case  where  there  was  one  field  and  two 
persons,  as,  e.g.,''  A  shall  inherit  a  half  of  such  and  such,  and  the 
other  half  be  given  to  B."  R.  Elazar,  however,  maintains :  The 
law  holds  good  even  in  the  latter  cases,  but  not  when  there  are 
two  fields  and  two  persons.  When  Rabbin  came  from  Palestine, 


284  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

he  said :  "  If  one  wrote,  "The  field  on  the  east  side  shall  be  given 
to  A,  and  B  shall  inherit  that  on  the  west  side  " — according  to 
R.  Johanan,  title  is  acquired,  and  according  to  R.  Elazar  it  is 
not.  Said  Abayi  to  him:  Your  saying  is  right  concerning  R. 
Elazar,  as  he  said  above  that  when  there  are  two  fields  and  two 
persons  the  will  is  not  to  be  considered;  but  it  contradicts  R. 
Johanan's  above  statement.  And  he  answered :  R.  Dimi  and  I 
differ  in  the  statement  which  was  made  in  the  name  of  R.  Jo- 
hanan. Resh  Lakish,  however,  maintains  that  title  is  not  ac- 
quired unless  it  is  stated  plainly,  '"'A  and  B  shall  inherit  such  and 
such  fields  which  I  have  presented  to  them  as  a  gift."  Then 
they  should  inherit  (i.e.,  as  this  will  speaks  about  two  persons, 
"  gift  "  must  be  mentioned  twice,  so  that  it  should  constitute  a 
gift  for  each  of  them).  However,  in  this  case  the  Amoraim  still 
differ.  R.  Hamnuna  maintains  that  the  will  in  question  holds 
good  only  as  to  one  person  and  one  field,  but  not  as  to  one  per- 
son and  two  fields,  or  vice  versa.  R.  Na'hman,  however,  said 
that  it  holds  good  even  as  to  one  person  and  two  fields,  or  vice 
versa;  but  not  as  to  two  persons  and  two  fields;  and  R.  Shesheth 
maintains  that  it  holds  good  even  in  the  latter  case. 

Come  and  hear  an  objection  from  the  following:  "  My  es- 
tates shall  belong  to  you,  and  after  you  so  and  so  shall  inherit, 
and  after  him  so  and  so  shall  inherit.  If  the  first  heir  dies,  title 
is  given  to  the  second;  if  the  second  dies,  title  is  given  to  the 
third;  but  if  the  second  dies  while  the  first  is  still  alive,  the 
estate  must  be  turned  over  to  the  heirs  of  the  first  one."  Now, 
is  not  the  case  in  that  Boraitha  equal  to  two  fields  and  two  men, 
and  nevertheless  it  states  that  title  is  given  ?  And  lest  one  say 
that  the  Boraitha  also  treats  of  a  case  in  which  the  persons  men- 
tioned are  all  direct  heirs  of  the  testator,  and  it  is  in  accordance 
with  R.  Johanan  b.  Beroka's  statement  said  above,  then  how  is 
to  be  understood  the  latter  part:  ''If  the  second  dies,  title  is 
given  to  the  third  "  ?  Did  not  R.  A'ha  b.  R.  Ivia  send  a  mes- 
sage that  in  accordance  with  R.  Johanan  b.  Beroka,  if  one  says, 
"  My  estates  shall  belong  to  you,  and  after  you  to  so  and  so," 
if  the  first  was  a  direct  heir,  the  second  has  nothing  in  the  estate, 
as  the  expression  is  not  to  be  considered  as  a  "  gift,"  but  as  an 
"inheritance"?  And  there  is  no  interruption  concerning  an 
inheritance  (i.e.,  an  inheritance  cannot  be  halved  so  that  a  half 
of  the  inheritance  shall  belong  to  the  direct  heir  and  the  other 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  285 

half  to  the  second,  and  also  cannot  be  interrupted  by  the  death 
of  the  regular  heir,  but  is  to  be  inherited  by  his  heirs).  Hence 
the  Boraitha  is  an  objection  to  the  statements  of  all  the  Amo- 
raim  mentioned  above,  and  so  it  remains. 

Shall  we  then  assume  that  it  also  objects  to  Resh  Lakish's 
statement  (i.e.,  that  the  Halakha  does  not  prevail  with  him)? 
How  can  this  be  imagined?  Did  not  Rabha  say  that  the 
Halakha  prevails  with  Resh  Lakish  in  certain  three  things,  one 
of  which  being  his  statement  made  above?  This  presents  no 
difficulty.  The  Boraitha  cited  speaks  of  when  it  was  said  in  one 
speech  (i.e.,  there  was  no  interruption  between  the  words,  "  My 
estate  shall  belong  to  you,  and  after  you,"  etc.  It  is  therefore 
to  be  supposed  that  at  the  time  he  gave  title  to  the  first  he  also 
gave  it  to  the  second ;  and  therefore  all  of  them  acquire  title). 
But  Resh  Lakish  treats  of  when  it  was  said  with  interruption 
(i.e.,  the  statement  of  Resh  Lakish  that  if  there  were  two  men 
and  two  fields  title  is  not  given,  means  that  he  said  first,  "  This 
field  shall  be  given  to  them,"  and  after  deliberating  he  said  again, 
"  shall  inherit  such  a  field,"  etc.  Then  the  word  "  given  "  can- 
not be  considered,  in  case  of  this  other,  and  therefor  title  is  not 
given).  The  Halakha  prevails  that  all  that  is  said  in  one  speech 
is  valid,  except  as  to  idolatry  (i.e.,  if  one  said  this  shall  be  for 
the  idol,  and  without  any  interruption  he  said  for  some- 
thing else,  the  thing  in  question  is  prohibited:  because  of 
the  rigor  as  to  idolatry,  the  first  word  which  was  spoken  is  con- 
sidered). And  the  same  is  the  case  concerning  betrothing — the 
first  word  is  considered  and  the  following  is  not,  although  it 
was  in  one  speech. 

MISHNA  VI. :  If  one  says:  "  A  (who  is  a  stranger  to  him) 
shall  inherit  my  estate,"  and  he  has  a  daughter,  or,  "  my  daugh- 
ter shall  inherit,"  though  he  has  a  son,  he  said  nothing,  as  the 
provision  is  against  the  biblical  law.  R.  Johanan  b.  Beroka, 
however,  maintains  that  if  he  has  bequeathed  to  such  persons  as 
are  fit  to  be  his  heirs,  his  will  must  be  Hstened  to;  but  if  the  per- 
sons are  not  fit  to  be  his  heirs,  it  is  not  to  be  considered. 

GEMARA:  From  the  expression  of  the  Mishna,  to  a 
stranger  instead  of  his  daughter,  or  to  the  daughter  instead  of 
a  son,  it  is  understood  if  it  was  one  daughter  among  others,  or 
one  son  among  others,  he  may  be  listened  to.  How,  then,  as 
to  the  latter  part  ?     R.  Johanan  b.  Beroka  said :  If  the  persons 


886  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

were  fit  to  be  his  heirs,  etc.  Is  this  not  the  same  as  what  the 
first  Tana  said?  And  lest  one  say  that  R.  Johanan  holds  that 
even  in  the  former  case  his  will  is  valid,  this  cannot  be,  as  the 
following  Boraitha  states:  R.  Ishmael  the  son  of  R.  Johanan 
said :  My  father  and  the  sages  do  not  differ  as  to  when  one  has 
bequeathed  to  a  stranger  instead  of  his  daughter,  or  to  his 
daughter  instead  of  his  son — he  is  not  to  be  listened  to;  and 
wherein  they  do  differ  is,  if  he  had  bequeathed  to  one  son  or  to 
one  daughter  among  others,  where  according  to  my  father  his 
will  is  valid,  and  according  to  the  sages  it  is  not.  (Hence  there 
is  a  difficulty  in  understanding  the  expression  of  the  Mishna?) 
If  you  wish,  it  may  be  said  that  because  R.  Ishmael  found  it 
necessary  to  say  that  they  do  not  differ,  there  must  be  one  who 
said  that  they  do ;  and  this  was  the  first  Tana.  And  if  you  wish, 
it  may  be  said  that  the  whole  Mishna  is  in  accordance  with  R. 
Johanan  b.  Beroka.  But  it  is  not  complete,  and  should  read 
thus:  If  one  said:  "A  shall  inherit  my  estate  instead  of  my 
daughter,"  or  "  My  daughter  instead  of  my  son,"  he  said  noth- 
ing. If,  however,  "  My  daughter  so  and  so  shall  inherit  my 
estate  instead  of  my  other  daughters,"  or  "  my  son  instead  of 
my  other  sons,"  he  may  be  listened  to;  as  R.  Johanan  b.  Beroka 
declares  that  if  he  has  bequeathed  all  his  estate  to  him  who  is 
one  of  his  direct  heirs,  his  willis  valid. 

Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel :  The  Halakha  pre- 
vails with  R.  Johanan.  And  so  also  said  Rabha.  And  he 
added:  What  is  the  reason  of  R.  Johanan  b.  Beroka?  [Deut. 
xxi.  i6]  :  "  Then  shall  it  be,  when  he  divideth  as  inheritance 
among  his  sons  what  he  hath,"  means  that  the  Torah  gave  per- 
mission to  the  father  to  bequeath  his  estate  to  whichever  of  his 
sons  he  pleased.  Said  Abayi  to  him  :  This  may  be  inferred  from 
"  that  he  shall  not  institute  the  son  of  the  beloved  as  the  first- 
born before,"  etc.  We  see  that  this  is  said  only  about  the  first- 
born, but  not  about  the  other  sons.  Nay,  the  latter  is  needed 
in  addition  to  what  we  have  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha : 
Aba  Hanan  in  the  name  of  R.  Eliezer  said :  To  what  purpose  is 
it  written,  "  that  he  shall  not  institute,"  etc.  ?  Because  from  the 
beginning  of  the  verse  it  is  deduced  that  permission  is  given  to 
a  father  to  bequeath  his  estate  to  whom  he  pleases.  And  one 
may  discuss  thus:  An  ordinary  son  has  the  privilege  to  take 
his  share  in  the  estate  which  is  not  yet  fit  for  division  as  if  it 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA   (LAST    GATE).  287 

were  already  fit,  and  nevertheless  his  father  has  the  permission 
to  ignore  him ;  a  first-born,  who  has  no  such  privilege,  so  much 
the  more  he  could  be  ignored.  Therefore  it  is  written,  "  He 
shall  not  institute,"  etc.  But  let  the  Scripture  read,  "  he  shall 
not  institute,"  o«/3;.  Why  the  first  half  of  the  verse?  Because 
one  may  discuss  thus :  a  first-born,  who  has  not  the  privilege 
to  take  his  double  share  from  that  which  is  not  yet  fit,  has 
nevertheless  the  privilege  that  he  cannot  be  ignored  by  his 
father.  An  ordinary  son,  who  has  the  privilege,  so  much  the 
more  he  should  not  be  ignored.  Therefore  the  beginning  of 
the  verse,  from  which  we  infer  that  the  father  is  permitted  to 
bequeath  his  estates  to  whom  he  pleases,  w^as  necessary. 

Said  R.  Zrika  in  the  name  of  R.  Ami,  quoting  R.  Hanina, 
who  said  so  in  the  name  of  Rabbi :  The  Halakha  prevails  in  ac- 
cordance with  R.  Johanan  b.  Beroka:  Said  R.  Abba  to  him:  He 
did  not  say  so,  but  he  decided  so  in  a  case  (which  came  before 
him.)  And  what  is  the  difference?  One  holds  preference  is 
to  be  given  to  a  statement  (i.e.,  if  he  states  that  so  the  Halakha 
prevails,  it  is  a  teaching  forever;  but  if  he  was  only  acting  so, 
it  may  be  said  that  it  was  only  according  to  the  circumstances 
and  we  cannot  take  it  for  a  rule  forever).  And  the  other  holds 
that  the  preference  may  be  given  to  an  act. 

The  rabbis  taught :  A  Halakha  must  not  be  taken  for  granted 
from  a  discussion  or  from  an  act,  as  one  has  no  right  to  act 
unless  he  is  told  to  do  so.  If  he  questioned  his  master  and  he 
told  him  such  and  such  a  Halakha  is  to  be  practised,  then  he 
may  go  and  act  so,  provided  he  does  not  compare  one  case  to 
another.  But  do  we  not  compare  one  thing  to  the  other  in 
the  laws  of  the  Torah  ?  Said  R,  Ashi :  It  means  to  say  that  he 
must  not  compare  one  thing  to  the  other  in  the  law  of  dietary 
(i.e.,  an  animal  which  is  fit  for  eating  biblically,  if  it  has  such  a 
sickness  that  it  cannot  live  twelve  months,  it  must  not  be  used). 
In  Tract  Chulin  the  diseases  are  enumerated,  but  such  diseases 
as  are  not  enumerated  there  are  discussed  whether  in  connec- 
tion with  lawful  use  or  otherwise.  And  it  is  said  that  in  such 
cases  no  comparison  is  to  be  taken  in  consideration  unless 
known  by  tradition.  As  we  have  learned  in  a  Boraitha,  one 
must  not  say,  concerning  Trepheth  (sickness  which  makes  the 
animal  illegal) :  This  is  similar  to  this.  And  one  should  not  be 
surprised,  as,  if  one  cuts  a  piece  of  the  animal  from  one  side,  it 


283  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

may  remain  alive;  and  from  another  side,  and  it  dies  imme- 
diately. 

R.  Assi  questioned  R.  Johanan :  "  If  you,  master,  declare  a 
Halakha  to  us,  saying  that  such  is  the  law,  may  we  practise 
accordingly?  And  he  answered:  You  shall  not  practise  unless 
I  tell  you  that  such  is  for  practice.  Said  Rabha  to  R,  Papa  and 
to  R.  Huna  b.  R.  Joshua:  If  it  should  happen  that  my  written 
resolution  in  a  judgment  should  come  to  your  hands,  and  you 
should  see  some  objection  concerning  it,  you  shall  not  tear  it 
before  seeing  me;  for  if  I  should  have  some  reason  to  approve 
it  I  will  tell  you,  and  if  not  I  will  retract  from  it.  But  if  the 
same  should  happen  after  my  death,  you-shall  not  tear  it,  and 
at  the  same  time  you  shall  not  take  it  for  an  example  for  other 
cases.  You  shall  not  tear  it,  because,  if  I  were  alive,  probably 
I  would  approve  it  by  a  good  reason;  and  shall  not  take  it  for 
an  example,  as  a  judge  has  to  act  only  according  to  his  convic- 
tion and  to  that  wdiich  he  sees  with  his  own  eyes. 

Rabha  questioned :  How  is  it  when  one  bequeaths  his  estates 
to  one  son  among  others,  while  he  is  still  in  good  health  ?  Shall 
we  assume  that  R.  Johanan  b.  Beroka's  statement  is  concerning 
a  sick  person  only,  to  whom  the  above-cited  passage  may  apply, 
but  not  concerning  one  who  is  in  good  health  (when  it  is  not 
usual  for  one  to  divide  his  estate),  or  it  does  not  matter,  and 
one  may  bequeath  his  estate  when  he  pleases?  Said  R.  Meshar- 
shia  to  him :  Come  and  hear  the  following :  R.  Nathan  said  to 
Rabbi :  You  have  taught  the  following  Mishna :  If  one  has  not 
written  in  the  marriage  contract,  '*  Male  children  borne  of  you 
by  me  shall  inherit  the  amount  mentioned  in  your  marriage 
contract  in  addition  to  their  share  among  their  other  brothers," 
he  is  nevertheless  responsible  in  this  respect,  as  this  stipulation 
is  made  by  the  Beth  Din  (court).  And  Rabbi  answered  him : 
It  is  to  be  read  in  that  Mishna,  instead  of  "  inherits,"  they  shall 
"  take  "  (which  means  a  gift,  and  to  this  all  agree  that  the  father 
has  a  right).  Thereafter,  however.  Rabbi  said  :  My  youth  made 
me  presume  to  contradict  Nathan  the  Babylonian,  as  I  see 
now — from  the  law  that  male  children  cannot  collect  their 
mother's  marriage  contract  from  encumbered  estate — that 
Nathan,  who  declared  the  expression  of  the  Mishna  to  be  "  in- 
herited "  was  right,  as  if  the  expression  were  as  I  declared,  why, 
then,  should  they  not  collect  from  encumbered  estates  also? 


TRACT    BAB  A   BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  2.89 

(Hence  we  see  that  one  even  in  good  health  has  the  right  to 
bequeath,  etc.,  as  the  Mishna  treats  of  one  entering  into  mar- 
riage.) And  who  is  the  one  who  holds  that  one  may  give  the 
preference  to  one  of  his  sons  among  others,  if  not  R.  Johanan 
b.  Beroka?  Hence  there  is  no  difference  if  he  does  it  while 
sick  or  in  good  health.     Infer  from  this  that  so  it  is. 

Said  R.  Papa  to  Abayi :  Let  us  see.  According  to  both,  no 
matter  if  the  expression  in  the  Mishna  is  "  inherit  "  or  "  take," 
why  should  this  hold  good?  Is  there  not  a  rule  that  one  cannot 
grant  to  some  one  a  thing  which  is  not  as  yet  in  his  hands?  And 
even  according  to  R.  Meir,  maintains  that  one  may  do  so, 
it  is  when  the  thing  is  in  existence,  but  not  as  yet  in  his  hands. 
Here,  however,  concerning  the  marriage  contract  the  male  chil- 
dren are  not  at  all  in  existence,  and  in  such  a  case  even  R.  Meir 
admits  that  one  cannot.  And  if  the  answer  to  this  question 
should  be:  When  the  court  made  a  stipulation,  it  is  different. 
Say  then  that  only  in  a  case  where  the  stipulation  of  Beth  Din 
holds,  one  can  write  so,  even  when  he  is  in  good  health,  but  not 
otherwise?  And  Abayi  answered:  After  all,  it  may  be  inferred 
that  the  Halakha  prevails  in  accordance  with  R.  Johanan  b. 
Beroka,  from  the  expression  "  inherit,"  as  it  could  state  "  take  " 
to  which  there  is  no  opposition ;  and  the  choosing  of  the  expres- 
sion "  inherit  "  shows  that  it  agrees  with  R.  Johanan.  There- 
after, however,  said  Abayi :  "  What  I  said  above  is  incorrect, 
as  there  is  another  Mishna :  If  one  has  not  written  in  the  mar- 
riage contract,  '  The  female  children  whom  you  will  bear  by 
me  shall  remain  in  my  house  after  my  death,  and  shall  be  fed 
from  my  estates  until  they  shall  marry,'  he  is  nevertheless  re- 
sponsible, as  this  is  a  stipulation  of  the  Beth  Din."  Now  we  see 
that  the  two  statements  which  ought  to  be  written  in  the  mar- 
riage contract  are  in  one  case  because  of  inheritance  and  in  the 
other  because  of  a  gift ;  and  in  such  a  case  even  the  opponents 
of  R.  Johanan  admit  that  it  is  lawful.  Said  R.  Nihumi,  accord- 
ing to  others  R.  Hananiah  b.  Minumi,  to  Abayi :  But  how  do 
you  know  that  one  Beth  Din  has  enacted  both  the  stipulations 
mentioned  above?  Perhaps  they  were  enacted  by  two  differ- 
ent Beth  Dins? 

R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said:  If  one  bequeath 
all  his  estates  to  his  wife,  it  is  to  be  considered  that  he  makes  her 
a  guardian  only.     It  is  also  certain  that  if  he  did  so  to  his  elder 


290  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

son,  he  is  considered  a  guardian  only.  But  how  is  it  if  he  has 
bequeathed  all  his  estates  to  his  younger  son?  It  was  taught: 
R.  H'nilai  b.  Aidi  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said  that  the  same  is 
the  case  even  when  his  younger  son  was  in  his  cradle. 

It  is  certain  that  if  one  allot  in  his  will  an  estate  to  a  son  and 
a  stranger,  the  son  is  considered  a  guardian  and  the  stranger 
acquires  title  to  that  which  is  bequeathed  to  him  as  a  gift.  The 
same  is  the  case  if  to  his  wife  and  a  stranger.  It  is  also  certain 
that  when  he  had  bequeathed  his  estates  to  his  bride  who  was 
betrothed  (and  yet  not  married),  or  to  his  divorced  wife,  that 
it  is  a  gift  and  they  acquire  title.  The  schoolmen,  however, 
were  doubtful  when  he  did  so  to  his  daughter  if  there  were  sons, 
or  to  his  wife  if  he  left  brothers;  and  also  to  his  wife,  who  had 
no  children,  but  stepsons.  Shall  we  assume  that  he  appointed 
any  one  of  them  as  guardian  only,  for  the  purpose  that  she 
should  be  respected  by  the  heirs  as  long  as  she  lived,  or  he  made 
them  a  gift  and  they  acquire  title  to  the  estate.  Said  Rabhina 
in  the  name  of  Rabha:  The  women  mentioned  above  do  not 
acquire  title,  as  they  are  considered  guardians;  except  the  bride 
and  also  his  childless  wife  if  she  is  together  with  her  stepsons, 
and  therefore  acquire  title).  R.  Avira,  however,  said  in  the 
name  of  the  same  authority  that  all  the  above-mentioned 
women  acquire  title  except  his  childless  wife,  if  he  left  brothers; 
and  also  his  childless  wife  if  she  is  together  with  her  stepsons. 

(All  that  is  said  above  treats  of  a  will  by  a  sick  man  ?)  Rabha 
questioned:  How  is  it  if  this  was  done  by  one  while  in  good 
health?  Shall  we  assume  that  the  above  verse  applies  only 
to  a  sick  man,  whose  last  will  must  be  respected,  or  the 
same  is  the  case  with  one  in  good  health,  as  for  this  purpose 
he  so  acted  that  his  words  should  be  respected  from  that  day? 
Come  and  hear:  If  one  writes  the  products  of  his  estates  to  his 
wife,  and  thereafter  he  dies,  she  may  collect  her  marriage  con- 
tract from  the  estate  itself.  If  he  writes  her  a  part  of  the  estate 
— a  half,  a  third,  or  a  quarter — she  may  collect  her  marriage  con- 
tract from  the  remainder.  If,  however,  he  had  presented  to  her 
all  his  estates,  and  thereafter  a  creditor  came  holding  a  prom- 
issory note  from  the  deceased,  according  to  R.  Eliezer  the  deed 
of  gift  shall  be  annulled  and  she  shall  remain  by  her  marriage 
contract.  The  sages,  however,  maintain,  on  the  contrary:  The 
marriage  contract  shall  be  annulled  and  she  shall  remain  by  the 


TRACT    BABA   BATHRA   (LAST    GATE).  291 

deed  of  gift  (as  it  may  be  supposed  that  she  has  relinquished 
her  right  in  the  marriage  contract  because  of  the  gift  she  has 
received).  Should,  however,  evidence  be  brought  that  the  gift 
was  not  lawful,  she  remains  shorn  on  both  sides  of  the  head. 
R.  Jehudah  the  baker  told  that  such  a  case  happened  with  his 
sister's  daughter,  who  was  a  bride;  and  the  case  came  before 
the  sages,  and  they  decided  that  her  marriage  contract  should 
be  annulled  and  she  should  remain  by  her  deed  of  gift.  And 
thereafter  the  latter,  for  some  reason,  was  also  annulled,  and  she 
remained  shorn  on  both  sides  of  the  head.  We  see,  then,  that 
if  it  were  not  for  the  creditor  with  his  note,  title  would  be  given 
to  her.  Now,  how  was  the  case?  Shall  we  assume  that  it  was 
by  a  will  from  a  sick  man  ?  Is  it  not  said  above  that  she  is  con- 
sidered a  guardian  only?  We  must  then  say  that  it  was  by 
one  in  good  health.  Hence  Rabha's  question  can  be  decided 
affirmatively.  Nay,  it  may  treat  of  a  will  by  a  sick  man;  and, 
according  to  R.  Avira,  it  can  apply  to  all  the  women  mentioned 
above,  and  according  to  Rabhina's  explanation  it  may  apply  to 
a  bride  and  a  divorced  wife.  Said  R.  Joseph  b.  Minumi  in  the 
name  of  R.  Na'hman :  The  Halakha  prevails  that  the  marriage 
contract  shall  be  annulled  as  the  sages  declare.  Shall  we  as- 
sume that  R.  Na'hman  does  not  hold  the  theory  of  supposition? 
Have  we  not  learned  in  the  following :  If  one's  son  went  to  the 
sea  countries,  and  was  thereafter  reported  dead,  and  he  in  con- 
sequence bequeathed  all  his  estates  to  some  one  else,  the  gift  is 
valid,  even  if  his  son  were  alive  and  returned.  R.  Simeon  b. 
Menasia,  however,  maintains  tliat  the  gift  is  null  and  void,  as  if 
he  were  aware  that  his  son  was  still  alive  he  would  not  do  so ; 
and  R.  Na'hman  said  that  the  Halakha  prevails  with  the  latter. 
(Hence  we  see  that  R.  Na'hman  holds  the  theory  of  supposi- 
tion.) Yea,  his  decision  that  the  marriage  contract  should  be 
annulled  is  also  because  of  a  supposition — that  for  the  pleasure 
she  has  in  announcing  that  her  husband  presented  to  her  all  his 
estates  she  has  relinquished  the  right  to  her  marriage  contract. 
There  is  a  Mishna  (Peah,  III.,  10) :  "  If  one  has  bequeathed 
all  his  estates  to  his  sons,  but  has  left  to  his  wife  a  small  portion 
of  ground,  she  loses  her  marriage  contract."  How  is  this  to 
be  understood — because  he  gave  her  a  parcel  of  ground,  she 
lost  her  marriage  contract?  Said  Rabh:  It  means  when  he 
made  the  ceremony  of  a  sudarium,  to  give  title  to  his  sons  with 


292  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

her  garment  (i.e.,  as  she  has  given  her  garment  for  the  purpose 
of  dividing  all  his  estate  among  his  sons,  it  is  to  be  supposed 
that  she  agreed  to  this  act  without  any  objection  concerning 
her  marriage  contract).  Samuel,  however,  maintains  that  it  is 
sufficient  if  he  did  so  in  her  presence  and  she  kept  i,ilent  (as  if 
this  were  against  her  will  she  would  protest).  R.  Jose  b.  Ha- 
nina,  however,  maintains:  It  speaks  of  when  he  said  to  her,  "Take 
this  ground  instead  of  your  marriage  contract."  And  the 
Boraitha  teaches  that  concerning  a  marriage  contract  it  is  more 
loosely  constructed  than  for  other  creditors,  as  the  latter  do  not 
lose  their  right  unless  they  say  plainly,  "  We  relinquish  our 
right,"  while  concerning  a  marriage  contract  it  is  sufficient  that 
she  does  not  protest.  There  is  an  objection  from  a  Mishna  in 
Khethuboth :  R.  Jose  said :  "  If  she  has  accepted,  although  he 
wrote  nothing,  she  has  lost  the  right  of  her  marriage  contract." 
From  which  it  is  to  be  inferred  that  according  to  the  first  Tana 
the  accepting  is  not  sufficient  unless  he  writes.  Hence  he  re- 
quires both  writing  and  accepting.  And  lest  one  say  that  all 
of  the  Mishna  in  question  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Jose  (i.e.,  if 
he  wrote  her  a  small  parcel  of  ground,  she  loses  her  right). 
And  R.  Jose  adds  that  the  same  is  the  case  if  she  accepted,  al- 
though it  was  not  written.  This  cannot  hold  good,  as  there 
is  a  Boraitha  in  addition  to  that  Mishna:  Said  R.  Jehudah:  All 
this  holds  good  when  she  was  present  and  had  accepted;  but  if 
she  accepted  and  was  not  present,  she  lost  nothing  of  her  right 
in  the  marriage  contract.  Hence  this  Mishna  is  an  obejction 
to  all  the  Amoraim  mentioned  above,  and  the  objection  remains. 
Said  Rabha  to  R.  Na'hman :  In  the  case  in  question  we  have 
heard  the  opinions  of  Rabh,  Samuel,  and  R.  Jose.  Now  I  would 
like  to  know  what  is  the  opinion  of  you,  master.  And  he  an- 
swered :  I  am  of  the  opinion  that  as  soon  as  he  made  his  wife 
a  sharer  with  his  sons  (i.e.,  at  the  time  when  he  bequeathed  his 
estates  to  his  sons  and  set  aside  a  piece  of  ground  for  her),  she 
lost  her  marriage  contract.  (Provided  she  had  not  protested, 
as  R.  Na'hman  holds  with  Samuel  that  if  she  kept  silent  it  was 
sufficient. — Rashbam.)  And  so  also  it  was  taught  by  R.  Joseph 
b.  Minumi,  in  the  name  of  R.  Na'hman.  Rabha  questioned : 
How  is  it  in  a  similar  case  when  one  is  in  good  health  ?  Shall 
we  say  only  when  he  was  sick,  and  she  was  aware  that  he  had 
no  other  estates,  therefore  she  relinquished?     But  when  he  was 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  293 

Still  in  good  health  she  might  think,  "  Why  should  I  relinquish 
my  right — he  may  in  the  future  buy  some  other  estates?  "  Or, 
on  the  other  hand,  having  seen  that  he  divided  all  his  estates, 
she  renounced  her  hope  and  reHnquished?  This  question  re- 
mains undecided. 

There  was  one  who  wrote  in  his  will,  a  half  of  my  estate  to 
one  daughter,  and  the  other  half  to  another,  and  a  third  of  the 
products  to  my  wife.  At  that  time  R.  Na'hman  happened  to 
be  in  Sura  (where  this  will  was  made),  and  R.  Hisda  questioned 
him :  How  should  such  a  case  be  decided  ?  And  he  answered : 
Thus  said  Samuel:  Even  if  he  left  to  her  the  products  of  one 
tree  only,  she  lost  her  right  in  the  marriage  contract.  Said  R. 
Hisda  to  him :  Samuel's  decision  was  when  he  gave  her  title  to 
that  which  is  attached  to  the  ground;  but  in  our  case  he  left  for 
her  only  fruit  which  was  already  gathered.  And  he  rejoined: 
Then  you  speak  of  movable  property.  In  such  a  case  she  cer- 
tainly lost  nothing.  There  was  another  man  who  said  in  his 
Avill :  A  third  to  one  daughter,  a  third  to  another,  and  a  third  to 
my  wife.  It  happened  that  one  of  the  daughters  died  while  her 
father  was  still  alive  (i.e.,  as  a  father  inherits  from  his  daughter 
the  deceased's  share  reverted  to  him,  and  this  is  similar,  as  he 
might  buy  some  other  estate  after  the  division  of  his  previous 
one),  and  R.  Papa  was  about  to  decide  that  his  wife  had  only 
the  third  bequeathed  to  her,  but  nothing  in  the  third  left  from 
her  daughter,  for  the  reason  that  as  soon  as  he  has  made  her  a 
sharer  with  his  daughters  the  marriage  contract  was  considered 
null.  Said  R.  Kahana  to  him  :  Why  should  this  case  be  different 
from  the  case  that  after  making  his  will  he  bought  other  estate? 
Would  she  not  have  a  right  to  it  because  of  her  marriage  con- 
tract, as  she  has  relinquished  her  right  only  for  the  sake  of  her 
daughters,  when  there  was  no  other  estate,  but  not  in  the  estate 
he  bought  afterwards?  The  same  is  the  case  here:  the  inheri- 
tance of  his  daughter  is  to  be  considered  as  other  estate  bought. 

There  was  another  who  divided  all  his  estate  but  one  tree 
among  his  wife  and  children,  and  Rabhina  was  about  to  say 
that  the  widow  had  a  right  to  this  tree  only,  if  the  amount  of 
her  marriage  contract  exceeded  the  value  of  the  estate  she  re- 
ceived. Said  R.  Yimar  to  him:  If  she  relinquished  her  right 
at  the  time  the  division  took  place,  then  she  has  no  right  even 
to  this  tree;  and,  on  the  other  hand,  if  she  has  a  right  to  this 


294  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

tree,  which  means  that  she  did  not  relinquish  her  right,  then, 
by  the  same  right  by  which  she  collects  the  excess  from  this 
tree,  she  may  do  so  from  the  others  which  are  in  possession  of 
the  heirs. 

R.  Huna  said :  From  all  said  above,  it  is  to  be  inferred  that 
in  the  case  of  a  sick  person  who  has  bequeathed  all  his  estate 
to  a  stranger,  it  is  to  be  investigated  if  the  latter  is  in  some  way 
fit  to  be  called  a  direct  heir.  Then  he  takes  it  as  an  inheritance; 
and  if  not,  he  takes  it  as  a  gift.  Said  R.  Na'hman  to  him :  Why 
quibble?  Say  plainly  the  Halakha  prevails  in  accordance  with 
R.  Johanan  b.  Beroka,  as  your  decision  is  in  accordance  with 
him.  However,  perhaps  you  refer  to  a  case  which  happened 
while  one  was  dying  and  was  questioned :  To  whom  do  you  be- 
queath your  estate — probably  to  so  and  so?  and  he  answered: 
To  whom  else?  And  hence  your  statement  that  if  the  legatee 
is  in  some  way  fit  to  be  an  heir  he  takes  it  as  an  inheritance; 
and  if  not,  he  takes  it  as  a  gift?  And  he  (Huna)  answered: 
Yea,  that  is  what  I  meant.  But  what  is  the  difference  whether 
he  takes  it  as  an  inheritance  or  a  gift?  R.  Ada  b.  Ahbha  in  the 
presence  of  Rabha  said:  If  because  of  inheritance,  then  the 
widow  of  the  deceased  must  be  fed  from  the  estate  until  she  gets 
the  amount  belonging  to  her  according  to  her  marriage  con- 
tract, which  is  not  the  case  when  he  takes  it  as  a  gift.  Said 
Rabha  to  him :  Shall  such  a  case  make  the  position  of  the  widow 
worse?  In  the  case  of  an  inheritance  biblically,  it  is  said  that 
the  widow  must  be  fed  from  the  estate;  in  the  case  of  a  gift, 
which  is  only  a  rabbinical  enactment  (as  in  reality  one  cannot 
present  anything  after  death,  but  the  sages  enacted  that  the  will 
of  a  sick  person  shall  be  considered  as  written  and  presented), 
shall  she  not  have  her  right  of  support?  Therefore  Rabha  ex- 
plained :  R.  Huna's  above  statement  agrees  with  the  message 
which  was  sent  by  R.  Aha  b.  Ivia:  In  accordance  with  the  deci- 
sion of  R.  Johanan  b.  Beroka  (above,  p.  285),  an  inheritance  has 
no  interruption,  and  goes  direct  to  the  heirs  of  the  inheritor. 
Said  Rabha  to  R.  Na'hman :  But  the  testator  himself  has  contro- 
verted this  with  his  saying,  "  after  you,  so  and  so  shall  inherit." 
He  said  so  because  he  meant  that  he  might  do  so.  But  the  law 
dictates  that  there  shall  be  no  interruption;  hence  this  stipula- 
tion is  against  the  biblical  law,  and  must  therefore  not  be  con- 
sidered. 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  295 

There  was  a  man  who  said  in  his  will :  My  estates  shall  be- 
long to  A  and  after  A  to  B.  A,  however,  was  a  legitimate  heir, 
and  when  he  died,  B  came  and  demanded  the  estate.  And  R. 
Elish  in  the  presence  of  Rabha  was  about  to  decide  that  B's 
claim  was  a  right  one.  Said  Rabha  to  him :  Judges  who  are 
arbitrators  (i.e.,  who  do  not  decide  according  to  the  strict  law, 
but  mediate  between  the  parties)  judge  so.  This  case,  however, 
was  the  same  as  that  concerning  which  R.  Aha  b.  Ivia  sent  his 
message  (that  inheritance  has  no  interruption),  and  he  became 
ashamed.  Rabha  then  applied  to  him  [Is.  Ix.  22]  :  "  I  the  Lord 
will  hasten  it  in  its  time  "  (i.e.,  Elish  was  ashamed  that  were  it 
not  for  Rabha  he  would  have  acted  against  the  law).  And 
Rabha  comforted  him,  in  that  Providence  would  not  leave  such 
an  upright  man  to  act  wrongly,  and  therefore  it  so  happened 
that  he  (Rabha)  was  present.  Hence  he  had  no  need  to  fear 
the  justice  of  his  decisions  in  other  cases. 

MISHNA  VII. :  If  one  bequeathed  his  estates  to  strangers, 
leaving  his  children  without  anything,  his  act  is  valid ;  but  he  is 
condemned  in  the  eyes  of  the  sages.  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel, 
however,  maintains  that  if  his  children  were  not  going  in  the 
right  way  he  might  be  mentioned  among  the  good  men. 

GEMARA:  The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question:  Do 
the  rabbis  differ  with  R.  Simeon  or  not?  Come  and  hear: 
Joseph  b.  Joezer  had  a  son  with  bad  habits;  and  he  had  also  a 
measure  of  dinars.  And  because  of  his  son,  he  consecrated  the 
dinars  to  the  Temple.  The  son  went  and  married  the  daughter 
of  Gadil,  the  master  of  the  crowns  for  King  Janai ;  and  when  his 
wife  had  borne  a  child,  he  bought  a  fish  for  her,  and  found  in  it 
a  pearl.  Said  his  wife  to  him :  Do  not  carry  it  to  the  court  of 
the  king,  as  they  will  appraise  it  cheaply  and  will  take  it  from 
you.  Take  it,  rather,  to  the  treasurer  of  the  sanctuary;  but 
do  not  mention  any  price  for  it,  as  if  you  should  do  so,  you  will 
have  no  right  to  change  it  thereafter,  as  there  is  a  rule  that  con- 
cerning a  sanctuary  the  upset  price  is  considered  final,  and  one 
has  no  longer  right  to  retract,  as  after  delivery  to  a  commoner. 
He  did  so,  and  it  was  appraised  by  the  treasurer  at  thirteen 
measures  of  dinars.  The  treasurer  then  said  to  him :  We  have 
now  in  the  treasury  only  seven  measures  of  dinars,  as  the  taxes 
are  not  yet  collected.  And  he  answered:  Let  the  remaining 
six  measures  be  consecrated  to  heaven.     And  the  treasurer  re- 


296  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

corded  in  his  book :  Joseph  b.  loezer  brought  to  the  sanctuary 
one  measure,  while  his  son  has  brought  six.  According  to 
others,  they  wrote :  Joseph  brought  to  the  sanctuary  one  meas- 
ure, and  his  son  took  from  it  six  measures.  Now,  as  they  wrote 
Joseph  brought  in,  it  is  to  be  inferred  that  he  acted  rightly.  But 
perhaps,  on  the  contrary,  as  according  to  others  they  recorded 
"  his  son  took  out  seven,"  it  may  be  said  that  they  considered 
the  act  of  the  father  unlawful.  Therefore  from  this  Boraitha 
nothing  is  to  be  inferred.  However,  how  should  this  question 
be  decided?  Come  and  hear:  Samuel  said  to  R.  Jehudah:  Do 
not  transfer  an  inheritance  from  any  one,  even  from  a  bad  son 
to  a  good  one ;  further,  nor  from  a  son  to  a  daughter. 

The  rabbis  taught:  It  happened  in  the  case  of  one  whose 
children  had  evil  habits,  that  he  bequeathed  all  his  estates  to 
Jonathan  b.  Uziel;  and  the  latter  sold  a  third  of  them,  conse- 
crated a  third,  and  the  remaining  third  he  returned  to  the  de- 
ceased's sons.  And  Shamai  the  Elder  came  to  rebuke  him  for 
having  so  done  with  estates  bequeathed  to  him,  contrary  to  the 
will.  And  he  answered  him :  Shamai,  if  you  have  the  right  to 
make  null  that  which  I  have  sold  and  that  which  I  have  conse- 
crated, then  you  have  also  a  right  to  take  away  the  property 
which  I  have  returned  to  the  children.  But  as  you  have  no 
right  to  do  the  former,  you  have  no  right  to  exclaim  against  my 
latter  act  {i.e.,  if  you  consider  me  the  owner  of  the  estates  be- 
queathed to  me,  then  I  may  do  with  them  what  I  please;  and  if 
I  am  not  the  owner,  then  also  what  I  have  consecrated  should 
be  annulled;  and  as  you  cannot  annul  the  consecration,  because 
the  estate  was  bequeathed  to  me  without  any  condition,  conse- 
quently the  estates  are  mine,  and  you  cannot  take  away  the 
property  from  the  children.)  And  Shamai  exclaimed :  The  son 
of  Uziel  has  vanquished  me !  the  son  of  Uziel  has  vanquished 
me!  But  what  was  his  opinion  before  he  came  to  rebuke  him? 
He  did  so  because  of  what  happened  in  the  city  of  Beth  Horon. 
There  was  one  of  whom  his  father  vowed  that  he  should  not 
derive  any  benefit  from  him;  and  when  he  made  a  banquet  for 
the  marriage  festival  of  his  son,  he  said  to  his  neighbor:  I  make 
you  a  present  of  this  courtyard  and  all  that  is  prepared  for  the 
banquet,  but  only  to  the  end  that  my  father  should  be  able  to 
come  and  eat  with  us  at  that  banquet.  And  his  neighbor  an- 
swered: If  all  this  is  mine.  I  consecrate  it  to  heaven.     And  the 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA    (LAST   GATE).  297 

donor  rejoined :  I  have  not  given  you  my  property  to  be  conse- 
crated to  heaven.  Rejoined  the  neighbor :  Then  you  have  given 
all  this  to  the  end  that  your  father  and  you  shall  eat  and  drink 
and  be  reconciled,  and  the  sin  shall  rest  on  my  head.  And  the 
sages  decided  that  a  gift  which  cannot  be  consecrated  by  the 
benefactor  is  not  to  be  considered  a  gift  at  all.* 

MISHNA  VIII. :  If  one  says :  "  This  is  my  son,"  he  is  to  be 
trusted;  but,  "  my  brother,"  he  is  not  to  be  trusted.  He  may, 
nevertheless,  share  with  him  the  inheritance  of  his  father  (when 
there  are  only  two ;  but  if  there  are  three,  the  third,  who  does  not 
recognize  him  as  his  brother,  is  not  bound  to  share  with  him, 
and  so  he  receives  a  half  of  the  share  of  the  brother  who  does 
recognize  him).  If  the  doubtful  man  dies,  the  estate  must  be 
turned  over  to  him  from  whom  it  was  taken.  If,  however,  the 
deceased  left  other  estates  besides  those  he  inherited  with  his 
brother,  all  the  brothers  share  equally  (because  in  the  case  of 
that  one  who  testified  that  he  is  a  brother  to  all,  he  has  no  right 
to  the  inheritance  without  the  other  brother). 

GEMARA:  The  Mishna  states:  "  '  This  is  my  son,'  he  is  to 
be  trusted."  To  what  purpose  is  it  stated?  Said  R.  Jehudah 
in  the  name  of  Samuel :  For  the  purpose  that  he  may  inherit 
from  him,  and  to  acquit  his  wife  of  Yeboom.  But  was  it  neces- 
sary for  the  Mishna  to  state  that  he  might  inherit  from  him? 
Is  it  not  self-evident  (i.e.,  if  its  testimony  was  because  of  inheri- 
tance only,  he  could  give  it  as  a  present)?  It  was  necessary 
to  state  that  he  is  to  be  trusted  to  acquit  his  wife  of  Yeboom. 
But  this  also  we  have  learned  elsewhere :  If  one  says  while  dy- 
ing: "  I  have  children,"  he  is  to  be  trusted  (and  his  wife  is  ac- 
quitted of  Yeboom).  If,  however,  he  says :  "  I  have  brothers 
somewhere,"  and  he  was  childless,  he  is  not  to  be  trusted  (the 
intent  being  that  his  wife  should  be  prohibited  from  remarry- 
ing). That  Boraitha  speaks  of  when  the  people  were  not  aware 
of  any  brothers,  and  our  Mishna  came  to  teach  that  even  when 
people  were  aware  that  one  had  brothers  he  is  to  be  trusted  if 
he  testifies  that  such  a  person  was  his  son. 

R.  Joseph  in  the  name  of  R.  Jehudah,  quoting  Samuel,  said : 
Why  was  it  said :  One  is  trusted  in  testifying  that  he  has  a  son; 
because  if  one  testify  that  he  has  divorced  his  wife,  he  is  to  be 
trusted?     And  Joseph  himself  exclaimed:  Lord  of  Abraham! 

*  In  the  text  is  repeated  here  from  Tract  Sukka,  p.  36,  which  see. 


398  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

He  sustains  a  thing  which  we  have  learned  in  a  Mishna  by  a 
thing  which  was  not  learned  at  all.  Therefore,  if  this  was 
taught,  it  must  be  thus :  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said : 
Why  is  one  trusted  to  testify,  "  This  is  my  son  "  (and  with  this 
to  acquit  his  wife  of  Yeboom)  ?  because,  if  he  likes,  he  can 
divorce  her.  Said  R.  Joseph  again  :  Now,  w^hen  we  come  to  the 
conclusion  that  the  theory  of  "  because  "  may  be  used,  we  may 
infer  that  if  one  testify  he  has  divorced  his  wife,  he  is  to  be 
trusted;  because,  if  he  wishes  to  make  her  free,  he  may  give  her 
a  divorce  then.  When  R.  Itz'hak  b.  Joseph  came  from  Pales- 
tine, he  said  in  the  name  of  Johanan :  A  husband  is  not  trusted 
to  testify  that  he  has  divorced  his  wife.  R.  Shes'heth,  when  he 
heard  this,  made  a  gesture  implying:  Now  the  "  because  "  of  R. 
Joseph  is  gone.  Is  that  so?  Did  not  Hyya  b.  Abin  say  in  the 
name  of  R.  Johanan:  The  husband  is  trusted?  This  presents 
no  difficulty.  If  his  testimony  is  of  a  time  long  past,  he  is  not 
to  be  trusted ;  and  if  of  a  short  period  of  time  {e.g.,  a  day  or  two 
before,  so  that  this  testimony  should  be  used  for  the  future), 
he  is  to  be  trusted.  The  difference  is  in  case  she  was  suspected 
of  adultery  a  month  before  his  testimony :  If  he  is  trusted,  then 
she  committed  no  adultery;  and  if  not,  the  suspicion  must  be 
investigated.* 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question :  Should  one's  testi- 
mony for  the  time  past,  in  which  he  is  not  to  be  trusted,  be 
considered  for  the  future  {e.g.,  if  he  testified  in  January  that  he 
had  divorced  in  December,  which  does  not  hold  good  in  case 
of  the  suspicion  stated  above,  does  it  hold  good  for  the  time 
after  the  testimony  took  place  ?  And  the  question  is :  Can  one's 
testimony  be  divided — that  for  the  past  he  should  not  be 
trusted,  and  for  the  future  he  should)  ?  R.  Mary  and  R.  Zebid : 
According  to  one  we  may  divide,  and  according  to  the  other 
we  may  not.  But  why  should  this  case  be  different  from  the 
following  case  stated  by  Rabha:  If  one  testifies  that  his  wife 
has  committed  adultery  with  so  and  so,  if  he  has  another  wit- 
ness, the  man  can  be  put  to  death  in  accordance  with  the  law 
that  two  witnesses  have  to  testify  to  a  crime — we  conjoin  his 
testimony  to  the  stranger's  and  they  are  considered  two  wit- 
nesses; but  his  wife  cannot  be  executed,  as  it  is  unlawful  that 

*  The  commentators  try  to  explain  at  length  with  illustrations,  which  we  omit  as 
of  no  importance. 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  399 

a  husband  should  be  a  witness  against  his  wife  (hence  we  see 
that  the  testimony  is  divided :  for  one  it  is  considered,  and  for 
the  other  it  is  not)  ?  It  may  be  said :  Concerning  two  we  do 
divide,  but  not  concerning  one  person. 

There  was  one  who,  while  dying,  was  questioned  concerning 
his  wife  (i.e.,  he  was  childless,  and  they  questioned  him  if  his 
wife  was  divorced  from  him,  so  that  she  might  remarry  after 
his  death  or  she  remained  liable  to  Yeboom)?  And  he  an- 
swered :  She  is  fit  to  marry  even  the  high  priest  *  (i.e.,  I  have 
divorced  her).  Said  Rabha:  We  may  trust  him,  as  it  is  said 
above  by  Hyya  b.  Aba  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan :  A  husband  is 
to  be  trusted  in  testifying  that  he  has  divorced  his  wife.  Said 
Abayi  to  him :  But  did  not  R.  Itz'hak  b.  Joseph  in  the  name  of 
R.  Johanan  say :  He  is  not  to  be  trusted?  And  Rabha  rejoined : 
But  have  we  not  explained  above,  that  one  speaks  of  the  past, 
and  the  other  of  the  future?  Rejoined  Abayi:  Shall  we  rely 
upon  an  explanation  in  such  a  rigorous  law  as  marriage  is? 
Then  said  Rabha  to  R.  Nathan  b.  Ami  (before  whom  the 
case  came :  Investigate  this  matter  (as  probably  Abayi  is  right). 
There  was  another,  of  whom  it  was  known  to  the  people 
that  he  had  no  brothers,  and  so,  also,  he  testified  while 
dying.  However,  it  was  murmured  by  some  that  he  had 
brothers  in  some  other  country.  And  R.  Joseph  decided: 
There  is  no  risk  in  allowing  his  widow  to  remarry,  as  he  not 
only  said  so  while  dying,  but  it  was  known  to  the  majority.  Said 
Abayi  to  him :  But  is  it  not  murmured  that  there  are  witnesses 
in  the  sea-country  that  he  has  brothers?  (Answered  R.  Jo- 
seph :)  But  at  present  there  are  no  witnesses,  and  in  a  similar 
case,  R.  Hanina  said  elsewhere :  Should  we  prohibit  a  woman 
from  marrying  because  some  say  that  there  are  witnesses  in 
the  north?  Rejoined  Abayi:  If  Hanina  had  decided  leniently 
concerning  a  woman  in  captivity,  whose  prohibition  to  marry 
a  priest  is  rabbinical  only,  should  we  compare  our  case,  which 
is  biblical,  if  the  childless  deceased  left  brothers?  And  Rabha 
said  to  Nathan  b.  Ami,  who  had  charge  of  this  case :  Investigate 
this  matter. 

"  '  This  is  my  brother,'  he  is  not."     But  let  us  see  what  the 

*  The  commentators  find  difficulty  in  explaining  the  meaning  of  this  expression. 
It  seems  to  us,  however,  very  simple.  He  meant  :  I  divorced  her  before  having 
intercourse  with  her,  and  she  is  still  a  virgin,  whom  a  high  priest  may  marry. 


300  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

other  brothers  say.  If  they  admit  that  the  one  in  question  is 
their  brother,  why  should  he  share  with  one  only?  We  must 
then  say  that  they  deny  it.  Then  how  is  the  latter  part,  "  If  he 
had  estates  from  other  sources,  the  brothers  have  to  share,"  to 
be  understood?  They  do  not  deny  that  he  was  their  brother. 
It  means  when  the  others  say,  "  We  do  not  know  whether  he  is 
a  brother  or  not." 

"  It  must  be  turned  over  to  him,"  etc.  Rabha  questioned : 
How  is  it  if  the  same  estate  were  improved  of  itself — e.g.,  if  it 
were  a  young  tree,  and  it  grows  up,  etc.,  there  is  no  question 
of  the  improvement  being  through  the  labor  of  the  deceased, 
as  this  is  similar  to  the  case  in  which  one  got  estates  from 
other  sources;  but  the  question  is:  If  the  improvement  was  of 
itself?     This  question  remains  undecided. 

MISHNA  IX. :  If  one  dies,  and  a  dtadtjxv  was  tied  to  his 
body,  it  is  not  to  be  considered  at  all.  If,  however,  while  sick 
he  had  submitted  it  to  some  one,  be  he  his  direct  heir  or  not, 
it  must  be  listened  to. 

GEMARA :  The  rabbis  taught :  What  is  to  be  considered  a 
Siadrjxv'i  (Repeated  here  ff-om  Middle  Gate,  p.  40,  from  the 
quotation  "  Wills  "  to  the  end  of  the  paragraph.     See  there.) 

Rabba  b.  R.  Huna  was  sitting  in  the  balcony  of  Rabh,  and 
declared  the  following  in  the  name  of  Johanan :  If  a  sick  person 
said  to  witnesses:  "  Write,  and  give  a  mana  to  so  and  so,"  and 
before  they  did  so  he  dies,  it  must  not  be  listened  to,  for  the 
reason  that  probably  the  deceased  had  in  mind  to  give  title  in 
the  case  by  a  deed  only ;  and  as  such  a  deed  cannot  be  written 
after  death,  nothing  can  be  done.  Said  R.  Elazar  to  the  dis- 
ciples who  were  also  sitting  there:  Bear  in  mind  this  Halakha, 
as  it  is  for  practice.  R.  Shezbi,  however,  said :  The  reverse  was 
the  case:  R.  Elazar  declared  the  Halakha,  and  R.  Johanan  told 
them  to  bear  it  in  mind,  etc.  Said  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak:  It 
seems  to  me  that  R.  Shezbi  is  right,  as,  if  R.  Elazar  declared 
the  Halakha,  it  was  necessary  for  R.  Johanan  to  approve  it;  but 
if  Johanan  declared  it,  was  it  then  necessary  for  Elazar  to  give 
his  approval  to  what  his  master  said?  And  secondly,  from  the 
following,  it  is  to  be  inferred  that  Elazar  had  declared  the  above, 
namely:  Rabin  sent  a  message  in  the  name  of  R.  Abuhu:  It 
shall  be  known  to  you  that  R.  Elazar  sent  a  message  to  the  sages 
in  exile,  in  the  name  of  our  master  (Rabh)  :  If  a  sick  person  said, 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  301 

Write,  giving  a  mana  to  so  and  so,  and  it  was  not  done  until  he 
had  died,  nothing  is  to  be  done  (for  the  reason  said  above).  (R. 
Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel,  however,  said :  They  may  write 
and  give.*)  But  R.  Johanan  said  (though  the  Halakha  so  pre- 
vails) :  It  must,  nevertheless,  be  investigated.  What  shall  be 
investigated  ?  When  R.  Dimi  came  from  Palestine,  he  said  the 
following  two  things:  (a)  A  will  which  is  written  at  a  later 
period  abolishes  a  will  written  previously  (if  title  was  not  given 
by  a  ceremony  of  a  sudariurri),  (b)  If  a  sick  person  said, 
'*  Write,  giving  a  mana  to  so  and  so,"  and  died,  it  must  be  inves- 
tigated, whether  with  the  expression  "  write"  the  testator  meant 
to  strengthen  the  act.  In  that  case  it  may  be  done;  and  if  not, 
it  must  not.  R.  Aba  b.  Mamel  opposed  from  the  following: 
If  one  in  good  health  said  to  witnesses,  "  Write,  giving  a  mana 
to  so  and  so,"  and  suddenly  died,  nothing  is  to  be  done.  From 
which  it  is  to  be  inferred  that  if  this  were  said  by  a  sick  person 
it  would  be  Hstened  to  ?  He  himself  answered  thereafter:  If 
the  expression  "  write  "  was  only  to  confirm  the  act,  then  it  may 
be  listened  to.  But  how  can  we  know  what  he  meant  ?  As  R. 
Hisda  said  elsewhere :  If  written,  and  confirmed  by  the  cere- 
mony of  a  sudarium,  no  retraction  can  take  place.  So  also  in 
our  case.  If  it  was  said  by  the  sick  person,  "  Give  to  him,  and 
also  write,"  then  the  last  expression  may  be  considered  as  a 
confirmation  of  this  act;  and  it  may  be  so  done. 

It  was  taught :  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said : 
The  Halakha  prevails,  they  may  write  and  give;  and  so  also 
said  Rabha  in  the  name  of  R.  Na'hman. 

MISHNA  X. :  If  one  wishes  to  bequeath  his  estate  to  his 
children  {i.e.,  it  speaks  of  one  who  remarries  and  does  not  wish 
that  the  children  by  his  first  wife  should  lose  their  share  in  his 
estate  after  his  death),  he  must  write:  I  bequeath  my  estate  to 
them  from  to-day  and  after  my  death  {i.e.,  the  estate  belongs  to 
them  thenceforward,  but  not  the  products  until  after  his  death). 
So  is  the  decree  of  R.  Jehudah.  R.  Jose,  however,  maintains : 
It  is  not  necessary  to  write  "  from  to-day." 

If  one  wrote :  "  I  bequeath  my  estate  to  my  son  from  to- 
day, and  after  my  death,"  he  has  no  longer  any  right  to  sell  his 
estate,  because  it  is  bequeathed  to  his  son ;  and  his  son,  also,  has 

•  Transferred  from  152a. 


302  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

no  right  to  sell  it  because  it  is  still  under  the  control  of  his 
father.  If,  notwithstanding  this,  the  father  has  sold,  the  prod- 
ucts thereof  are  sold  until  he  dies.  If  the  son,  however,  sold, 
the  buyer  has  nothing  therein  until  the  father  dies. 

GEMARA:  But  how  if  he  has  written  "  from  to-day  and 
after  my  death  "  ?  Have  we  not  learned  in  a  Alishna :  If  one 
wrote  in  a  divorce,  "  from  to-day  and  after  my  death,"  it  is  con- 
sidered a  doubtful  divorce,  so  that  after  his  death  his  widow 
cannot  marry  his  brother,  but  must  perform  the  obligation  of 
Halitzah.  (This  is  no  objection)  as  there  we  are  doubtful  as 
to  the  explanation  of  his  words.  Does  he  mean  by  the  words, 
"  after  my  death,"  to  be  a  condition  {i.e.,  if  I  die  she  shall  be 
divorced  from  to-day),  or  as  a  retraction  (i.e.,  the  last  words  re- 
tract the  former),  and  therefore  she  cannot  marry.  Perhaps 
the  divorce  was  valid,  and  it  is  prohibited  to  her  to  marry  a 
brother-in-law.  But  she  is  under  the  obligation  of  Halitzah. 
Perhaps  the  divorce  was  invalid.  In  our  case,  however,  it  is  to 
be  explained,  the  body  of  the  estate  is  bequeathed  "  from  to- 
day," but  the  products,  "   after  my  death." 

"R.Jose  .  .  .  It  is  not  necessary,"  etc.  Rabba  b.  Abuhu 
became  sick.  R.  Huna  and  R,  Na'hman  came  to  make  him 
a  sick  call.  Said  R.  Huna  to  R.  Na'hman :  Question  him 
whether  the  Halakha  prevails  with  R.  Jose.  And  he  answered: 
I  am  not  aware  of  the  reason  of  his  statement.  To  what  pur- 
pose, then,  should  I  ask  if  the  Halakha  so  prevails  ?  Rejoined 
R.  Huna:  I  will  tell  you  the  reason  later,  and  meanwhile  you 
may  question  him  with  whom  the  Halakha  prevails.  And  he 
did  so.  And  Rabba  answered :  So  said  Rabh :  The  Halakha 
prevails  with  R.  Jose.  When  they  went  out  from  him.  said  R. 
Huna:  The  reason  of  R.  Jose's  statement  is  because  the  date  of 
the  deed  testifies  to  whom  from  that  day  the  estate  belongs. 
And  so  also  we  have  learned  plainly  in  a  Boraitha. 

Rabha  questioned  R.  Na'hman :  According  to  R.  Jehudah, 
who  requires  that  there  shall  be  written  '*  from  to-day,"  etc., 
how  is  it,  if  this  was  made  with  the  ceremony  of  a  sudarium  ? 
(Shall  we  assume  that  as  the  above  ceremony  was  already  per- 
formed title  is  acquired,  and  nothing  further  is  to  be  added; 
or,  even  then,  it  must  be  written  in  the  deed  "  from  to-day," 
etc.  ?)  And  he  answered :  In  such  a  case  it  is  not  necessary. 
R.  Papa,  however,  maintains  that  there  is  a  difference  in  the 


TRACT    BABA   BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  303 

tenor  of  the  deed.  If  it  was  written :  We  have  secured  the 
ceremony  of  a  sudarium,  which  he  agreed  to  and  made,  then 
nothing  is  needed  to  be  added.  If,  however,  it  was  written: 
He  agreed,  and  we  performed  the  ceremony,  then  it  is  neces- 
sary to  write,  "  from  to-day,"  etc.  (and  the  reason  is,  that  the 
latter  expression  may  be  explained  as  intimating  that  he  agreed 
that  possession  should  come  after  death,  and  thereto  we  have 
joined  the  ceremony  of  a  sudarium).  R.  Hanina  of  Sura  op- 
posed :  Are  there  such  things  as  we  do  not  know,  and  we  must 
rely  upon  the  scribes?  The  scribes  of  Rabha  and  of  Abayi  were 
questioned,  and  it  was  found  that  they  were  aware  of  the  differ- 
ence mentioned  above.  R.  Huna  b.  R.  Joshua,  however,  said : 
There  is  no  difference  between  the  two  versions  mentioned 
above;  as  to  either  of  them,  nothing  is  to  be  added.  But  if 
"  sudarium  "  was  not  mentioned  in  the  deed  at  all,  and  there 
was  a  memorandum :  e.g.,  "  The  undersigned  testify  that  a 
memorandum  was  made  by  so  and  so,"  etc.,  then,  according 
to  R.  Jehudah,  "  from  to-day,"  etc.,  is  needed.  Said  R. 
Kahana:  I  repeated  this  discussion  before  R.  Zebid  of  Nahar- 
dea,  and  he  told  me:  You  have  learned  this  so.  We,  how- 
ever, have  learned  it  as  follows:  Said  Rabha  in  the  name  of 
R.  Na'hman :  If  a  sudarium  is  mentioned,  no  matter  what  ver- 
sion was  used,  nothing  is  needed  to  be  added;  but  in  respect  to 
a  memorandum  (illustrated  above)  R.  Jehudah  and  R.  Jose 
differ. 

"/  bequeath  my  estates  to  my  son,"  etc.  It  was  taught:  If 
the  son  sold  out  and  then  died  while  the  father  was  still  alive, 
according  to  R.  Johanan  the  buyer  has  nothing  in  it ;  and  ac- 
cording to  Resh  Lakish,  title  is  given  to  the  buyer  after  the 
father's  death.  The  reason  of  their  difference  is,  because  the 
former  holds  that  the  sale  of  the  products  ought  to  be  held 
similar  to  the  sale  of  the  body;  and  as  the  products  could  not  be 
sold  by  the  son,  as  he  had  nothing  in  them  so  long  as  the  father 
was  alive,  so  he  could  not  sell  the  body.  And  the  latter  holds 
that  the  body  is  not  subordinate  to  the  products;  as  the  body 
belonged  to  the  son,  the  sale  is  valid. 

R.  Johanan  objected  to  Resh  Lakish  from  the  Boraitha 
stated  above,  p.  289,  which  says :  The  estate  must  be  turned  over 
to  the  heirs  of  the  first ;  and  according  to  you.  it  ought  to  be  to 
the  heirs  of  the  testator.     And  he  answered :  It  was  already  ex- 


304  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

^plained  by  R.  Hoshua  in  Babylon  that  there  was  a  difference 
when  the  testator  said  plainly  "  and  after  you."  And  so  also 
it  was  answered  by  Rabh,  to  a  contradiction  made  before  him 
by  Rabha  b.  R.  Huna.  But  have  we  not  learned  in  a  Boraitha 
that  the  estate  must  be  turned  over  to  the  heirs  of  the  tes- 
tator ?  In  the  resolution  of  this  case,  Tanaim  differ:  "My 
estates  are  bequeathed  to  you,  and  after  you  to  B ;  A  sells  out, 
and  consumes  the  amount.  B  has  a  right  to  recover  it  from 
the  buyers  after  the  death  of  A.  So  is  the  decree  of  Rabbi. 
R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  maintains  B  has  a  right  only  to  what 
remained  from  A."  A  contradiction  was  made  from  the  follow- 
ing :  My  estate  is  bequeathed  to  you,  and  after  you  to  B;  A  may 
sell  and  consume  it.  So  is  the  decree  of  Rabbi.  R.  Simeon 
b.  Gamaliel,  however,  maintains  that  A  has  a  right  to  the  prod- 
ucts only.  Hence  Rabbi  and  R.  Simeon  contradict  themselves 
in  the  two  Boraithas.  This  presents  no  difficulty.  The  state- 
ment of  Rabbi  in  the  later  Boraitha  is  concerning  the  products 
only;  and  the  statement  in  the  first  Boraitha  is  concerning  the 
body.  There  is  also  no  contradiction  in  R.  Simeon's  state- 
ments, as  his  statement  in  the  last  Boraitha  means  that  so  is 
the  law  to  start  with;  and  his  statement  in  the  former  means, 
if  it  were  already  done. 

Said  Abayi :  Who  is  called  a  crafty  villain  ?  He  who  advises 
A  to  sell  the  estate  (bequeathed  to  him  for  his  life  only),  rely- 
ing upon  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel's  decision.  Said  R.  Johanan : 
The  Halakha  prevails  with  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel.  He,  how- 
ever, admits  that  if  A  gives  the  same  as  a  present  to  C,  when 
he  is  dying,  he  has  done  nothing.  And  what  is  the  reason  ? 
Said  Abayi:  Because  C  ought  to  acquire  title  to  it  only  after 
the  death  of  A.  But  at  that  time  B  had  already  acquired  title, 
as  it  was  bequeathed  to  him  after  A's  death.  But  did  Abayi 
say  so  ?  Was  it  not  taught :  To  a  gift  presented  by  one  who 
is  dying,  at  what  time  is  title  given  ?  According  to  Abayi, 
with  the  death:  and  according  to  Rabha,  after  death.  Hence 
C  ought  to  have  the  preference,  according  to  Abayi's  last  state- 
ment, as  to  B  it  is  bequeathed  after  death  ?  Abayi  has  re- 
tracted from  his  last  statement.  But  do  you  know  where  he 
has  retracted  from  the  last  statement  ?  Perhaps  he  has  re- 
tracted from  the  first.  Yet  it  cannot  be  borne  in  mind  that 
there  is  a  Mishna  which  states  as  follows:  If  one  should  say: 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  305 

"  This  shall  be  your  divorce  if  I  should  die  ";  or,  "  It  shall  be 
yours  if  I  should  not  recover  from  this  sickness  " ;  or,  "  After 
my  death,"  he  said  nothing.  (Hence  this  Mishna  is  a  direct 
contradiction  to  Abayi's  statement  that  title  is  given  with  the 
death.  If  it  were  so,  the  divorce  would  be  valid  when  he  said : 
This  shall  be  your  divorce  when  I  die.  And  therefore  it  must 
be  supposed  that  he  retracted  from  the  later  statement.) 

Said  R.  Zera  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan :  The  Halakha  pre- 
vails with  R.  Simeon,  even  in  case  in  the  estate  in  question 
there  were  included  bondsmen,  and  they  were  freed.  Is  this  not 
self-evident  ?  Lest  one  say  that  the  testator  may  claim :  "  I 
did  not  bequeath  to  you  my  estate,  you  shall  transgress  *  with 
them,"  it  came  to  teach  us  that  it  does  not  matter.  And  R. 
Joseph  said  in  the  name  of  the  same  authority :  Even  if  he  had 
made  of  them  shrouds  for  a  corpse.  Is  this  not  self-evident  ? 
Lest  one  say  that  the  testator  may  claim :  "  I  did  not  give  it 
to  you  for  the  purpose  that  you  should  make  from  it  things 
from  which  it  is  prohibited  to  derive  any  benefit,"  he  came  to 
say  it  does  not  matter. 

R.  Na'hman  b.  R.  Hisda  lectured :  If  one  said :  "  This  citron 
is  given  to  you  as  a  gift,  and  after  you  to  B,"  and  A  became 
seized  of  it,  and  performed  his  duty  as  owner  on  the  first  day  of 
Tabernacles,  it  depends  upon  the  difference  between  R.  Simeon 
and  Rabbi  whether  it  was  done  lawfully.  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak 
opposed :  The  above  Tanaim  differ  in  the  case  whether  the  sale 
of  the  products  be  considered  the  same  as  the  sale  of  the  body 
(explained  above),  or  not  ?  But  in  our  case,  if  it  was  not  pre- 
sented to  him  to  the  end  that  as  owner  he  should  perform  the 
duty  of  that  day,  for  what,  then,  was  it  given  to  him  ?  There- 
fore it  must  be  said  that  all  agree  that  A,  who  did  as  owner  his 
duty  of  that  day,  acted  lawfully.  But  if  he  has  consumed  or  sold 
it,  it  depends  upon  the  difference  between  the  Tanaim  men- 
tioned above  whether  the  sale  is  valid,  or  A  has  to  pay  for  it. 

There  was  a  woman  who  had  a  tree  on  the  estate  of  R. 
Bibbi  b.  Abayi ;  and  each  time  she  went  to  gather  the  products 
of  the  tree,  it  made  him  angry.  She  then  sold  it  to  R.  Bibbi 
for  his  Hfe,  with  the  condition  that  after  his  death  it  should  be 

*  The  ancient  Hebrew  as  well  as  the  Roman  law  prohibits  the  freeing  of  a  slave 
without  good  reason  ;  and  also  the  deriving  of  benefit  from  shrouds,  or  anything 
else  belonging  to  a  corpse. 


3o6  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

turned  over  to  her  or  her  heirs.  He,  however,  transferred  it 
to  his  minor  son  (to  the  end  that  the  tree  should  remain  his 
for  a  long  time,  as  according  to  the  law  a  minor  acquires  but 
cannot  give  title,  and  this  act  was  according  to  R.  Simeon  b. 
Gamaliel).  Said  R.  Huna  b.  R.  Jehoshua:  Because  you  are 
weak  you  speak  weak  words.*  Even  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  ad- 
mits that  his  statement  holds  good  only  when  he  transferred 
it  to  some  one  else;  but  not  if  to  himself. 

Rabha  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Na'hman :  If  A  said  to  B,  "  I 
give  you  this  ox  as  a  present,  with  the  stipulation  that  you  shall 
return  it  to  me,"  and  B  consecrated  it  and  afterward  returned 
it,  the  ox  is  consecrated,  and  B  has  fulfilled  his  duty.  Said 
Rabha  to  R.  Na'hman:  But,  after  all,  what  has  he  returned 
to  him  ?  The  ox  being  consecrated,  he  cannot  derive  any  bene- 
fit from  it.  Rejoined  R.  Na'hman:  But  did  B  depreciate  the 
value  of  the  ox  ?  Has  he  not  returned  it  as  he  got  it  ?  R. 
Ashi,  however,  said:  It  must  be  investigated  how  the  stipula- 
tion reads.  If  "  You  shall  return  it,"  then  he  acted  correctly, 
as  he  did  return  it.  But  if  "  You  shall  return  it  to  me,"  which 
means  it  shall  be  fit  for  me,  but  if  he  has  consecrated  it,  it  is  no 
more  fit  for  him.  Consequently  it  cannot  be  considered  re- 
turned. 

R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  If  A  has  be- 
queathed his  estate  to  B,  and  B  says  "  I  do  not  want  it,"  he 
nevertheless  acquires  title,  even  if  he  still  protests  he  does  not 
want  it.  R.  Johanan,  however,  says:  He  does  not.  Said  R. 
Abba  b.  Mamel :  And  they  do  not  difTer.  If  B  protests  at  the 
very  time  the  deed  of  gift  was  given  to  him,  he  does  not  acquire 
title;  but  if  he  first  kept  silent,  and  afterward  protested,  title  is 
acquired. 

The  rabbis  taught :  If  a  sick  person  said,  "  Give  two  hun- 
dred zuz  to  A,  three  hundred  to  B,  and  four  hundred  to  C," 
it  must  not  be  understood  that  he  who  is  mentioned  first  in 
this  deed  acquires  title  to  that  amount;  and,  therefore,  if  a 
creditor  comes  with  a  promissory  note  of  the  deceased,  it  may 
be  collected  from  all  of  them.  If,  however,  it  reads,  "  Two 
hundred  zuz  to  A,  and  after  him  three  hundred  to  B,  and  after 
him  four  hundred  to  C,"  then  the  one  who  is  mentioned  first  in 

*  The  commentators'  explanation  of  this  is  that  Abayi  was  of  the  family  of  Eli, 
who  according  to  tradition  were  short-lived.     Therefore  the  word  "  weak." 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  307 

the  document  acquires  title  to  that  amount;  and  the  promis- 
sory note  must  be  collected  from  the  last.  And  if  the  money  he 
receives  does  not  suffice,  it  must  be  collected  from  the  one  men- 
tioned before  him;  and  if  his  does  not  suffice,  it  must  be  col- 
lected from  the  first. 

The  rabbis  taught :  If  a  sick  person  said,  "  Give  two  hun- 
dred zuz  to  my  first-born  son  so  and  so,  who  is  worthy  to  have 
them,"  he  may  take  them,  and  also  the  double  share  belonging 
to  a  first-born.  If,  however,  the  sick  person  said,  "  Give  him 
such  an  amount  for  his  first-born  privilege,  the  son  has  the  pref- 
erence to  choose  which  is  better  for  him — ^the  amount  be- 
queathed or  the  double  share  prescribed  for  him.  The  same  is 
the  case  if  the  sick  person  said,  "  Give  two  hundred  zuz  to  my 
wife,  who  is  worthy  of  them."  She  takes  them  and  also  what 
belongs  to  her  according  to  her  marriage  contract.  If,  how- 
ever, he  said,  "  Give  them  to  her  for  her  marriage  contract,"  she 
has  the  choice  of  taking  them  or  that  which  belonged  to  her 
according  to  her  marriage  contract.  If  a  sick  person  said, 
"  Give  two  hundred  zuz  to  my  creditor  B,  who  is  worthy  of 
them,"  he  may  take  them,  and  also  collect  what  the  deceased 
owes  him.  But  if  he  said,  "  Give  them  to  him  for  my  debt," 
then  he  takes  it  for  the  debt. 

How  is  the  last  sentence  to  be  understood — because  he  said 
he  is  worthy  of  them,  he  shall  take  both  the  two  hundred  zuz 
and  his  debt?  Why  not  explain,  as  he  had  a  right  to  them  be- 
cause of  my  debt?  Said  R.  Na'hman:  Huna  told  me  that  this 
Boraitha  is  in  accordance  with  R,  Aqiba,  who  is  particular  con- 
cerning the  version  as  it  is  said  (Chap.  IV.,  Mishna  2):  R. 
Aqiba  admits,  etc.  From  which  we  see  that  he  gives  his  atten- 
tion to  a  superfluous  word.  The  same  is  it  with  the  case  in 
our  Boraitha — that  the  words,  "  as  he  is  worthy  of  them,"  are 
superfluous;  and  according  to  R.  Aqiba  they  are  said  because 
he  wants  to  add  them  to  his  debt. 

The  rabbis  taught :  If  a  sick  man  said,  "  I  have  a  mana  with 
so  and  so,"  the  witnesses  may  write  this,  although  they  are  not 
aware  that  such  is  the  case.  And  therefore,  when  his  heirs 
come  to  collect  from  the  debtor,  it  is  for  them  to  bring  evidence. 
So  is  the  decree  of  R.  Meir.  The  sages,  however,  maintain 
that  the  witnesses  must  not  write  unless  they  are  aware  that  so 
it  is.     And  therefore,  the  heirs  may  collect  this  debt  without  any 


3o8  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

other  evidence.  Said  R.  Na'hman:  Huna  told  me:  The  Bo- 
raitha  must  be  so  understood.  R.  Meir  said:  They  must  not 
write;  and  the  sages:  They  may.  And  even  R.  Meir  said  so 
because  he  feared  that  the  court,  before  which  the  case  of  "  col- 
lection "  should  come,  would  err,  and  approve  the  deed  without 
any  investigation,  if  the  witnesses  who  signed  the  deed  testified 
only  to  what  the  deceased  said,  or  they  were  aware  that  the  con- 
tents were  true.  And  the  sages  maintain:  Usually  a  court 
does  not  err,  and  can  be  relied  upon  to  give  proper  attention  to 
this  matter.  Said  R.  Dimi  of  Nahardea:  The  Halakha  prevails 
that  it  must  not  be  feared  the  court  will  err.  But  why  should 
this  differ  from  the  following  case  stated  by  Rabha :  The  cere- 
mony of  Halitza  must  not  be  made  by  the  court,  unless  they 
know  the  persons  ?  And  the  same  is  the  case  with  a  denial 
(of  a  woman,  betrothed  in  childhood,  who  on  arriving  at  ma- 
jority denies  the  marriage  before  the  court;  and  according  to 
the  law  she  may  remarry  without  any  other  act).  And  there- 
fore the  witnesses  who  were  present  may  write  a  testimony  of 
this  act,  although  they  themselves  did  not  know  the  persons. 
And  the  reason  why  the  court  must  not  perform  the  ceremony 
of  Halitza,  unless  they  know  the  persons,  is  because  it  is  to  be 
feared  that  the  court  before  which  she  may  come  to  remarry 
will  not  investigate  whether  she  is  the  same  person  who  had  to 
take  Halitza.  (Hence  we  see  that  error  by  the  court  is  to  be 
feared?)  This  is  no  objection.  A  court  usually  does  not  in- 
vestigate the  act  of  a  former  court ;  but  the  acts  of  witnesses, 
it  does. 

MISHNA  XL  :  The  father  has  a  right  to  pluck  the  products 
of  trees  which  are  found  on  the  estate  bequeathed  to  his  son, 
after  his  own  death,  and  may  present  them  to  whom  he  pleases. 
If,  however,  the  plucked  fruit  remains  after  his  death,  they  be- 
long to  his  heirs. 

GEMARA:  The  plucked  fruit  only,  but  not  that  which  is 
attached  to  the  trees,  although  ready  to  be  plucked  (i.e.,  such 
belongs  to  the  son,  to  whom  the  estate  is  bequeathed  after  his 
father's  death)  ?  Have  we  not  learned  in  a  Boraitha  that  in 
case  the  fruit  was  ripe,  under  the  control  of  the  bequeather,  it 
belongs  to  the  buyer  if  he  sold  it  before  his  death  ?  Said  Ula : 
This  presents  no  difBculty.  Our  Mishna  treats  of  when  he 
bequeathed  to  his  son,  and  it  may  be  supposed  that  his  last  will 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  309 

was  that  from  that  remaining  on  the  tree  his  son  should  derive 
benefit;  and  the  Boraitha  speaks  of  when  he  has  bequeathed 
his  estate  to  a  stranger. 

MISHNA  XII.'.  If  he  left  grown-up  and  minor  sons,  the 
grown  ones  have  no  right  to  derive  any  benefit  on  account  of 
the  minors,  nor  have  the  minors  a  right  to  same  on  account 
of  the  older  brothers  {e.g.,  the  older  ones  have  no  right  to  dress 
themselves  at  the  expense  of  the  inheritance  before  the  divi- 
sion, nor  should  the  minors  be  supported  from  the  inheritance) ; 
but  they  must  divide  the  inheritance  equally.  If  the  older 
ones  have  married  at  the  expense  of  the  inheritance,  the  same 
amount  must  be  added  to  the  shares  of  the  minors.  How- 
ever, the  latter  have  no  right  to  claim  for  any  addition  if  their 
older  brothers  have  married  while  their  father  was  still  alive, 
as  the  amount  expended  for  their  marriages  is  considered 
a  gift  from  their  father.* 

The  very  same  is  the  case  with  grown-up  and  minor  daugh- 
ters. All  of  them  must  receive  an  equal  share.  However,  in 
one  respect  preference  is  given  to  daughters  who  were  left  to- 
gether with  grown-up  sons.  The  daughters  must  be  fed  from 
the  inheritance  at  the  charge  of  the  sons,  which  is  not  the  case 
with  minor  daughters  who  were  left  together  with  grown-up 
ones. 

GEMARA:  Rabha  said:  In  the  case  of  the  oldest  brother 
who  has  dressed  himself  at  the  expense  of  the  house  before 
division,  his  act  is  lawful  (and  nothing  is  to  be  deducted  from 
his  share).  BtU  does  not  our  Mishna  state :  *'  Grown-up  ones 
have  no  right  to  derive  any  benefit,"  etc.  Our  Mishna 
speaks  of  when  they  are  idle,  and  do  nothing  for  the  benefit 
of  the  house.  If  idlers!  Is  it  not  self-evident?  Lest  one  say 
that,  nevertheless,  they  would  be  pleased  that  their  brother 
should  be  nicely  dressed,  it  comes  to  teach  that  it  is  not  so. 

"  Grown-up  and  minor  daughters''  etc.  R.  Abuhu  b.  Genibh 
sent  a  message  to  Rabha :  Let  the  master  teach  us :  How  is  it 
if  a  woman  has  borrowed  money,  consumed  it,  and  thereafter 
she  married  without  paying  her  debt,  and  brought  estates  with 
her  at  marriage?  Must  her  husband  pay  her  debt,  or  not? 
Shall  we  assume  that  the  husband  is  considered  a  buyer  of  the 
estates  brought,  consequently  he  has  not  to  pay,  as  the  law 

*  So  is  it  explained  in  the  Gemara  by  R.  Jehudah. 


3IO  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

dictates  that  a  loan  made  without  a  deed  cannot  be  collected 
from  a  buyer;  or  is  he  considered  an  heir,  and  must  pay  his 
wife's  debts,  even  when  contracted  without  any  deed?  And 
Rabha  answered:  This  we  have  learned  in  our  Mishna:  If  the 
grown-up  daughters  have  married,  the  minors  may  do  the  same. 
Is  this  not  to  be  interpreted  that  if  the  grown-up  daughters 
have  borrowed  money  from  the  estate  also  belonging  to  the 
minors,  the  minors  shall  do  the  same  by  collecting  the  debts 
from  their  sisters'  husbands?  Nay!  The  Mishna  means  to 
say  that  they  take  the  same  amount  from  the  inheritance  as 
their  sisters  did.  But  this  is  not  so.  As  R.  Hyya  taught 
plainly:  If  the  older  ones  have  married  at  the  charge  of  the 
inheritance,  the  minors  may  collect  the  amount  from  their  hus- 
bands? (Hence  we  see  that  the  husband  is  considered  an  heir, 
and  must  pay?)  This  cannot  be  taken  for  support,  as  a  law 
made  in  connection  with  an  inheritance  for  the  purpose  of 
marriage  is  considered  as  public  and  known  to  the  people,  and 
also  in  the  light  of  a  deed  which  is  to  be  collected  from  en- 
cumbered estates. 

Said  R.  Papa  to  Rabha:  Why  did  you  try  to  decide  the 
question  from  R.  Hyya's  Boraitha?  Was  the  same  not  de- 
cided by  Rabbin's  letter :  If  one  dies  leaving  a  widow  and  a 
daughter,  the  widow  must  be  supported  from  the  deceased's 
estate.  If  the  daughter  has  married  or  dies,  the  widow  is  still 
to  be  supported  from  the  estate.  Said  R.  Jehudah  the  son  of 
R.  Jose's  sister :  Such  a  case  came  before  me,  and  it  was  decided 
that  a  widow  must  still  be  supported  from  the  estate.  Now,  if 
the  husband  is  considered  an  heir,  it  is  correct  that  his  widow 
should  be  supported  from  his  estate ;  but  if  he  is  considered  a 
buyer,  why  should  she  be  supported  from  his  estate?  Does 
not  a  Mishna  state  that  for  the  support  of  a  widow  and  daugh- 
ters, encumbered  estate  must  not  be  taken  away  ?  Said  Abayi : 
What  news  has  Rabbin  sent  in  his  message?  Have  we  not 
learned  this  in  a  Mishna:  "  The  following  is  not  to  be  returned 
in  the  jubilee  year:  The  double  share  taken  by  a  first-born  and 
the  inheritance  of  a  woman  taken  by  her  husband  "  ?  Hence 
we  see  that  the  husband  is  considered  an  heir?  Said  Rabha 
to  him:  And  even  after  he  has  sent  the  message,  do  we  then 
know  that  it  is  in  accordance  with  the  law?  Did  not  R.  Jose  b. 
Hanina  say  (Middle  Gate,  p.  255)  that  the  husband  takes  away 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  311 

from  the  buyer?  Therefore  said  R.  Ashi:  The  rabbis  have  en- 
acted that  in  some  respects  the  husband  should  be  considered 
as  an  heir,  and  in  some  respects  as  a  buyer;  and  have  so  done 
on  his  account.  Concerning  the  jubilee  year,  it  is  better  for 
him  that  he  should  be  considered  an  heir,  for  the  purpose  that 
he  should  not  be  compelled  to  return  the  inheritance  of  his  wife, 
and  concerning  the  case  of  R.  Jose  b.  Hanina  (stated  above) 
he  is  to  be  considered  as  a  buyer,  that  he  should  not  suffer  any 
damage;  and  in  the  case  of  Rabbin  they  have  considered  him 
as  an  heir,  to  the  end  that  the  widow  should  not  suffer  any 
damage.  But  why  did  the  sages  consider  him  as  a  buyer  in  the 
case  of  R.  Jose  b.  Hanina?  Do  not  the  buyers  (from  whom 
he  takes  away  the  property)  suffer?  Therein  they  themselves 
cause  that  they  should  suffer,  as  they  ought  not  to  have  bought 
goods  from  a  married  woman,  who  lives  with  her  husband, 
without  his  consent. 


CHAPTER    IX. 

RULES  AND  REGULAITONS  CONCERNING  THE  SUPPORT  OF  UNMARRIED 
DAUGHTERS  AFTER  THE  DEATH  OF  THEIR  FATHER,  IF  AMONG 
THE  CHILDREN  WERE  AN  HERMAPHRODITE  OR  AN  ANDROGYN. 
MAY  OR  MAY  NOT  ONE  BEQUEATH  HIS  ESTATE  TO  STRANGERS 
IF  HE  HAS  CHILDREN  ?  DOES  THE  SECOND  WILL  ABOLISH  THE 
FIRST  ?  IF  A  SICK  PERSON  RECOVERS  AFTER  MAKING  A  GIFT 
WHILE  SICK,  MAY  HE  RETRACT  OR  NOT  ?  IF  SUDDEN  DEATH 
OCCUR  TO  MANY  PERSONS,  AND  IT  IS  NOT  KNOWN  WHO  DIED 
FIRST,    AND    EACH    OF    THE    HEIRS    CLAIMS    FOR    HIS    BENEFIT. 

MISHNA  /. :  If  one  dies,  and  leave  sons  and  daughters,  if 
the  inheritance  is  of  great  worth,  then  the  sons  inherit,  and  the 
daughters  must  be  supported  from  it;  and  if  a  moderate  one, 
the  daughters  must  be  supported,  and  the  sons  may  go  a-beg- 
ging. Admon,  however,  said:  Because  I  am  a  male  shall  I 
suffer?  Said  Rabban  Gamaliel:  It  seems  to  me  that  Admon 
is  right. 

GEMARA:  What  is  to  be  considered  great  worth?  Said 
R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  It  shall  be  sufficient  for  all 
of  them  to  be  supported  for  twelve  months.  And  he  (Jehudah) 
added :  When  I  told  the  Halakha  before  Samuel,  he  said :  Such 
is  the  decree  of  R.  Gamaliel  b.  Rabbi.  The  sages,  however, 
maintain:  It  shall  sufifice  to  support  all  of  them  until  the 
daughters  become  of  age.  So  also  it  was  taught  by  Rabbin, 
according  to  others  by  Rabba  b.  b.  Hana,  when  he  came  from 
Palestine,  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan :  If  the  inheritance  suffices 
to  support  all  of  them  until  the  daughters  become  of  age,  it  is 
considered  of  great  worth ;  and  if  less,  it  is  considered  moderate. 
How  is  this  to  be  understood?  If  it  does  not  suffice  to  support 
all  of  them,  shall  the  daughters  take  the  entire  inheritance, 
leaving  nothing  for  the  sons?  Therefore  said  Rabha:  There 
must  be  deducted  from  the  inheritance  the  amount  which  will 
suffice  for  the  daughters  until  they  become  of  age;  and  the 
remainder  shall  be  given  to  the  sons. 

It  is  certain  that  if  for  some  reason  the  estates  become  less 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  313 

in  value  after  the  father's  death,  and  do  not  suffice  for  the  sup- 
port of  the  daughters  until  they  become  of  age,  and  also  for 
the  sons'  support,  both  have  already  acquired  title,  and  must 
be  satisfied  with  that  which  falls  to  their  lot  (i.e.,  the  daughters 
have  no  right  to  claim  that  they  shall  be  supported  until  of  age 
from  the  share  of  their  brothers).  But  how  is  it  if  the  estate 
increased  in  value  after  death?  Shall  we  assume  that  the  in- 
crease belongs  to  the  heirs,  and  therefore  the  sons  may  have 
the  benefit  of  it?  Or,  as  they  had  nothing  in  it  when  their 
father  died,  they  are  considered  entirely  cut  of¥  from  this  in- 
heritance, and  have  nothing  to  do  with  the  increase?  Come 
and  hear  what  R.  Assi  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan:  If 
orphans  hastened  and  sold  out  from  this  inheritance  before  the 
daughters  summoned  them,  the  sale  is  valid,  and  the  daughters 
have  no  right  to  take  it  away  from  the  buyers,  according  to  the 
rule  that  it  cannot  be  collected  from  encumbered  estate  for  the 
support  of  the  daughters.  (Hence  we  see  the  sons  are  con- 
sidered heirs,  notwithstanding  that  the  estate  was  not  of  great 
worth.)     Consequently  they  have  a  share  in  the  increase. 

R.  Jeremiah  was  sitting  before  R.  Abuhu,  and  questioned 
him  as  follows:  If  the  estates  were  of  great  worth,  but  there 
was  a  promissory  note  in  the  hands  of  a  creditor,  which  ought 
to  be  collected  from  the  estates,  should  the  estates,  because  of 
the  note,  be  considered  moderate,  so  that  the  support  should 
be  for  the  daughters  and  the  sons  should  go  a-begging?  Or, 
until  collected,  should  all  of  them  be  supported,  without  tak- 
ing into  consideration  that  after  collecting  nothing  might  re- 
main for  the  support  of  the  daughters?  And  should  you  de- 
cide that  the  promissory  note,  although  not  yet  collected, 
diminishes  the  value  of  the  estates,  for  the  reason  that  the 
amount  due  will  be  collected  in  any  event,  even  should  the 
creditor  die,  how  is  it  if  the  deceased  left  a  step-daughter  whom 
he  has  to  support,  according  to  the  marriage  contract  of  his 
wife,  until  she  shall  become  of  age,  and  the  amount  of  her 
support  diminishes  the  estate  from  being  of  great  worth,  and 
stamps  it  moderate?  How,  then,  should  the  inheritance  be 
considered,  should  the  step-daughter  die,  and  then,  the  obliga- 
tion being  gone,  the  estates  remain  of  great  worth.  There  is 
still  another  question.  If  the  deceased  left  a  widow  and  a  daugh- 
ter, and  the  estates  left  couM  support  only  one  of  them,  who 


314  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

has  the  preference  ?  And  R.  Abuhu  answered :  Go  to-day,  and 
come  to-morrow.  And  when  he  came  he  said  to  him:  Of  all 
the  questions,  I  can  decide  the  last  one.  As  R.  Aba  said  in 
the  name  of  R.  Assi:  The  sages  have  enacted  that  when  there 
is  a  widow  with  a  daughter  she  shall  have  similar  treatment  to 
that  of  a  sister  who  remains  with  her  brother.  As  in  the  latter 
case,  if  the  estate  is  moderate  she  must  be  supported,  although 
her  brothers  remain  beggars,  so  also  the  widow  as  against  a 
daughter — the  widow  must  be  supported  and  the  daughter  may 
go  a-begging. 

"  Admon,  however,  said:  Because  I  am  a  male,"  etc.  How 
is  this  to  be  understood?  Said  Rabha:  He  means  to  say:  Be- 
cause I  am  a  male,  and  ought  to  inherit  all  the  estates  where 
the  inheritance  is  of  great  worth,  leaving  for  my  sister  only 
the  support  for  her  livelihood  until  of  age,  shall  I  remain  a 
beggar  when  there  is  a  moderate  estate? 

MISHNA  //. :  If  one  leave  sons,  daughters,  and  an  her- 
maphrodite (if  it  is  doubtful  whether  male  or  female),  and  the 
inheritance  is  of  great  worth,  the  males  may  count  same  among 
the  females;  but  when  the  inheritance  is  moderate,  the  females 
may  count  same  among  the  males. 

If  one  say :  "  If  my  pregnant  wife  should  bear  a  male,  he 
shall  take  a  mana,"  and  she  bears  a  male,  the  mana  is  to  be  given 
to  him;  "  If  a  female,  she  shall  take  two  hundred  zuz,"  she  takes 
two  hundred.  If  a  male  a  mana,  and  a  female  two  hundred 
zuz,  and  she  had  born  a  male  and  a  female?  The  male  takes 
one  hundred  and  the  female  two  hundred  zuz.  But  if  she  bears 
an  hermaphrodite,  he  takes  nothing.  If,  however,  he  said: 
"  What  she  shall  bear  shall  take,"  then  he  takes  accordingly. 
And  the  same  is  the  case  if  there  were  no  heirs  but  he — he  in- 
herits all. 

GEMARA :  The  Mishna  states :  They  count  same  among 
the  daughters,  which  means  he  shall  be  treated  like  them.  But 
does  not  the  later  part  state:  If  she  bears  an  hermaphrodite, 
he  takes  nothing?  Said  Abayi :  It  means  that  the  males 
counted  him  among  the  females;  but  the  latter  have  the  right 
not  to  accept  him,  and  he  remains  without  any  support.  Rabha, 
however,  maintains:  They  pass  him  and  he  must  be  similarly 
supported.  And  the  latter  part  of  our  Mishna  is  in  accordance 
with  Rabban  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  of  the  following  Mishna:  If 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  315 

she  bears  an  hermaphrodite  or  an  androgyn,  which  is  at  times 
a  male  and  at  times  a  female,  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  said :  No 
sanctity  rests  upon  them.  (The  cited  Mishna  treats :  If  one 
made  a  vow  for  the  offspring  of  a  gravid  cow — if  a  male,  it  shall 
be  a  burnt-offering;  and  if  a  female,  a  peace-ofifering.) 

An  objection  was  raised  from  the  following :  "  An  hermaph- 
rodite inherits  like  a  son,  and  is  supported  Hke  a  daughter." 
And  this  can  be  correct  only  according  to  Rabha:  That  he  is 
considered  an  heir,  like  a  son,  in  a  moderate  inheritance ;  and 
is  supported,  like  a  daughter,  in  one  of  great  worth.  But  ac- 
cording to  Abayi,  who  said  above  that  he  takes  nothing,  how  do 
you  find  that  he  shall  be  supported  like  a  daughter?  Even 
according  to  your  theory,  how  do  you  explain  Rabha's  state- 
ment, that  as  an  heir,  like  a  son,  he  takes  something  of  a 
moderate  inheritance?  In  such  a  case  the  sons  take  nothing; 
hence  he  means  to  say  that  he  is  considered  an  heir  like  a  son — 
to  be  a  beggar.  So  also  you  can  explain  the  Mishna:  He  is 
in  condition  to  have  support  like  a  daughter,  but,  nevertheless, 
he  does  not  get  any. 

" //  one  says:  If  my  pregnant  wife  shall  bear  a  male,"  etc. 
Shall  we  assume  that  a  daughter  is  better  to  him  than  a  son 
(as  the  Mishna  says,  "  If  a  male  one  hundred,  and  a  daughter 
two  hundred  ")  ?  Concerning  inheritance,  a  male  is  better  to 
him,  as  he  bears  his  name;  and  concerning  a  gift,  a  daughter 
is  better  to  him,  as  it  is  more  difficult  for  her  to  make  a  living 
than  for  a  male.  Samuel,  however,  maintains  that  the  Mishna 
treats  of  when  his  wife  was  pregnant  with  her  first  child ;  and 
it  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Hisda,  who  said  elsewhere:  If  the 
first  child  is  a  female,  it  is  a  good  sign  for  future  sons,  accord- 
ing to  some  because  she  will  educate  the  sons;  and  according 
to  some,  that  she  should  not  be  afiflicted  by  a  covetous  eye. 
Said  R.  Hisda :  As  for  me,  I  always  give  preference  to  females 
over  males.  And  if  you  wish,  it  may  be  said  that  our  Mishna 
is  in  accordance  with  R.  Jehudah  In  the  following  Boraitha: 
It  is  a  meritorious  act  for  one  to  support  his  daughters,  and 
so  much  the  more  his  sons  who  occupy  themselves  with  the 
Torah.  So  is  the  decree  of  R.  Meir.  R.  Jehudah,  however, 
said :  It  is  a  meritorious  act  to  support  the  sons,  and  so  much 
the  more  to  support  the  daughters,  because  of  their  humiliation 
(if  they  should  have  to  beg). 


3i6  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

There  was  one  who  said  to  his  wife :  I  bequeath  my  estate 
to  the  child  with  which  you  are  pregnant.  Said  R.  Huna:  This 
means  that  he  designed  to  give  title  to  an  embryo,  and  an 
embryo  cannot  acquire  title,  R.  Na'hman  objected  to  R.  Huna 
from  our  Mishna,  which  states:  If  my  wife  shall  bear  a  male, 
he  shall  take  a  mana,  etc.  And  he  answered  him:  I  do  not 
know  who  has  taught  our  Mishna  (i.e.,  I  do  not  find  our  Mishna 
to  be  in  accordance  with  the  majority,  nor  a  single  one  of  the 
sages).  But  let  R.  Na'hman  say  that  the  Mishna  treats  of  when 
the  bequeather  said :  I  bequeath  the  estate  to  the  child  after  my 
wife  has  borne  it  ?  R.  Huna  is  in  accordance  with  his  principle 
that  the  child  does  not  acquire  title  even  after  birth.  (As  it  was 
taught :)  R.  Na'hman  said :  If  one  bequeaths  to  an  embryo, 
title  is  not  given ;  but  if  he  said,  "  after  he  is  born,"  title  is  given. 
R.  Huna,  however,  maintains  that  even  then  title  is  not  given. 
But  R.  Shesheth  is  of  the  opinion  that  in  either  case  title  is 
given.  And  he  added :  I  deduce  my  statement  from  the  follow- 
ing Boraitha :  "  If  a  proselyte  supposed  to  be  childless  dies,  and 
Israelites  have  robbed  his  estate,  and  thereafter  they  hear  that 
he  has  a  son,  or  that  his  wife  is  pregnant,  they  are  obliged  to 
return  it.  If,  however,  they  have  returned  it,  and  thereafter 
they  hear  that  the  son  is  dead,  or  that  his  wife  has  had  a  mis- 
carriage, and  they  again  take  the  estate,  he  who  made  a  hazakah 
in  the  second  instance  has  acquired  title,  but  he  who  made  the 
same  in  the  first  instance  has  not."  Now,  if  it  be  remembered 
that  an  embryo  does  not  acquire  title,  why  should  title  not  be 
given  to  them  who  made  a  hazakah  in  the  first  instance?  Said 
Abayi:  There  is  a  difference  with  an  inheritance  which  came 
of  itself:  In  such  a  case  the  embryo  acquires  title.  Rabha, 
however,  said:  Even  in  case  an  inheritance  came  by  itself,  the 
embryo  does  not  acquire  title;  and  the  reason  why  title  is  not 
given  to  them  who  made  a  hazakah  in  the  first  instance  is  be- 
cause they  were  still  uncertain  whether  the  property  taken 
would  remain  with  them,  as  there  was  still  a  doubt  whether 
children  were  left.  But  in  the  second  instance  they  were  sure 
of  their  ground. 

Come  and  hear  another  objection :  "  A  child  of  one  day 
inherits  and  bequeaths  (e.g.,  if  his  father  dies  when  he  was  even 
one  day  old,  he  inherits  from  his  father ;  and  if  at  birth  the  estate 
of  his  deceased  father  came  to  him,  and  he  dies  when  he  was 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  317 

one  day  old,  his  relatives  inherit  from  him).  We  see,  then — 
only  when  he  was  one  day  old,  but  not  when  in  embryo.  This 
was  explained  by  Rabh  Shesheth :  He  inherits  the  estate  of  his 
mother,  to  bequeath  to  his  brothers  on  his  father's  side.  And 
this  can  be  only  when  he  was  alive  one  day  after  his  mother; 
but  not  when  he  was  in  embryo,  as  he  died  before  his  mother. 
And  a  son  does  not  inherit  from  his  mother,  when  once  in  his 
grave,  so  that  his  brothers  on  his  father's  side  could  inherit  from 
him. 

Shall  we  assume  that  in  case  the  mother  dies  while  preg- 
nant the  embryo  dies  first?  Perhaps  she  dies  first?  There 
happened  such  a  case,  and  the  embryo  moved  convulsively 
thrice.  Said  Mar  b.  R.  Ashi :  Such  a  movement  was  without 
any  life,  such  as  the  movement  of  the  tail  of  a  lizard.  Mar 
b.  R.  Joseph  in  the  name  of  Rabha  said:  The  cited  Boraitha 
means  to  say  that  a  child  of  one  day  diminishes  the  share  of 
a  first-born  .  E.g.,  a  first-born  takes  a  double  share — i.e.,  twice 
as  much  as  each  of  his  other  brothers.  But  if  there  were  added 
a  male  child  of  one  day,  the  estate  must  be  divided  into  five 
parts,  if  there  are  four  brothers,  of  which  the  first-born  takes  a 
double  share.  And  if  this  child  dies  afterwards,  his  share  is  to 
be  divided  equally  among  the  four  brothers.  This  is  only  when 
he  was  old  one  day,  but  not  when  an  embryo;  because  [it  is 
written,  Deut.  xxi.  15],  "  and  they  bear  him  children."  As  the 
same  said  also  on  the  same  authority:  A  son  who  was  born 
after  the  death  of  his  father  does  not  diminish  the  share  of  the 
first-born,  as  it  reads  in  the  verse  just  cited  "bear  him";  but 
when  born  after  his  death,  it  was  not  born  to  him. 

All  that  was  said  here  was  taught  in  the  city  of  Sura.  In 
Pumbeditha,  however,  it  was  taught  as  follows:  Mar  b.  R. 
Joseph  said  in  the  name  of  Rabha :  A  first-born  who  was  born 
after  the  death  of  his  father  does  not  take  a  double  share.  As 
it  is  written  [ibid.,  17] :  "  Shall  he  acknowledge,"  and  when 
he  is  dead  he  cannot  acknowledge.  The  Halakha  prevails  in 
accordance  wdth  all  the  versions  said  by  Mar  b.  R.  Joseph  in  the 
name  of  Rabha. 

R.  Itz'hak  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  said:  He  who  be- 
queaths to  an  embryo,  title  is  not  acquired.  And  should  you 
object  to  this  statement  from  our  Mishna,  which  states:  "  If  one 
bequeaths  a  mana  to  the  embryo,  he  takes  it  after  he  is  born," 


3i8  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

I  may  tell  you  that  this  is  said  only  of  a  father,  whose  mind  is 
near  to  his  son;  but  it  cannot  be  done  by  a  stranger.  Said 
Samuel  to  R.  Hana  of  Bagdad :  You  may  bring  to  me  ten  per- 
sons, and  I  will  teach  in  their  presence  that  title  is  given  if  one 
bequeaths  to  an  embryo.  The  Halakha,  however,  prevails  that 
title  is  not  given. 

There  was  one  who  said  to  his  wife:  I  bequeath  my  estate 
to  the  children  who  shall  be  born  of  you  by  me.  And  his 
elder  son  came  and  said:  What  becomes  of  me?  And  the 
father  answered :  You  will  take  a  share  as  one  of  the  brothers. 
Now,  the  children  which  are  to  be  born  can  certainly  not  ac- 
quire any  title;  but  the  question  is,  does  the  elder  son,  when 
he  came  to  share  with  his  brothers  born  thereafter,  take  a 
double  share,  as  his  father  bequeathed  to  him  a  part  of  his 
estate  when  his  brothers  w^re  not  yet  in  existence?  Or  does 
he  share  with  them  equally?  According  to  R.  Abbin,  R. 
Miicha,  and  R.  Jeremiah,  he  is  entitled  to  a  double  share ;  and 
according  to  R.  Abuhu,  Hanina  b.  Papi,  and  R.  Itz'hak  of 
Naf'ha,  he  is  not.  Said  R.  Abuhu  to  R.  Jeremiah :  With  whom 
should  the  Halakha  prevail — with  us  or  with  you?  And  he 
answered:  Certainly  with  us,  as  we  are  older  than  you;  and 
not  with  you,  who  are  still  young  scholars.  And  R.  Abuhu 
rejoined:  Does  this  depend  upon  age?  It  depends  upon  rea- 
son, and  our  reason  is  better  than  yours.  And  what  is  it? 
questioned  R.  Jeremiah  again.  And  he  answered :  Go  to  R. 
Abbin,  and  ask  him,  as  I  have  already  explained  to  him  the 
reason  at  the  college ;  and  he  shook  his  head  in  sign  of  assent. 
He  went  to  him,  and  he  told  him :  Because  this  case  is  similar 
to  that  of  one  who  says :  "  You  and  this  ass  shall  acquire  title 
to  this  article,"  would  title  be  given  to  him?  Is  this  not  to  ex- 
plain: You  shall  acquire  title  as  the  ass?  The  same  is  the  case 
if  one  says:  You  shall  share  with  the  children,  which  are  not 
yet  in  existence  even  in  pregnancy.  Hence  title  is  not  acquired 
in  either  case.  It  was  taught:  If  one  says:  "Acquire  title  to 
this  as  the  ass,"  certainly  title  is  not  given;  but  if  he  says: 
"  Acquire  title,  you  and  the  ass,"  according  to  R.  Na'hman  title 
is  given  to  a  half.  And  R.  Huna  said:  This  man  said  noth- 
ing. R.  Shesheth,  however,  said :  He  has  acquired  title  to  the 
whole  of  it.  Said  R.  Mordecai  to  R.  Ashi :  R.  Ivia  raised  an 
objection  from  a  Mishna  in  Tract  Kiduchin :  It  happened  with 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).       319 

five  women,  among  them  two  sisters,  that  one  presented  to 
them  a  basket  with  dry  figs,  saying:  You  are  all  betrothed  to 
me  with  this  basket.  And  one  of  the  women  accepted  the 
basket  for  them  all.  And  when  the  case  came  before  the  sages, 
they  said:  The  sisters  are  not  betrothed.  Hence — only  the 
sisters?  But  the  strangers  were.  Why?  Is  this  not  similar 
to  the  case:  You  and  the  ass  shall  acquire  {i.e.,  as  the  sisters 
could  not  under  any  circumstances  be  betrothed  to  one  person, 
the  other  women  must  also  be  treated  similarly)?  And  he 
answered :  That  is  what  R.  Huna  dreamt — that  R.  Ivia  was 
going  to  raise  a  question  (and  now  I  see  that  R.  Huna's  dream 
was  true).  However,  the  objection  does  not  hold  good,  as 
that  Boraitha  was  explained :  In  case  the  man  has  added :  All 
of  you  who  are  fit  to  be  my  wives. 

There  was  one  who  said  to  his  wife :  My  estate  shall  be  for 
you  and  your  children.  And  R.  Joseph  decided :  One  half  of 
the  estate  belongs  to  her,  and  the  other  half  to  her  children. 
And  he  added:  I  deduce  my  decision  from  the  following  Bo- 
raitha: Rabbi  said:  It  is  writen  [Lev.  xxiv.  9]  :  "  And  it  shall 
belong  to  Aaron  and  to  his  sons,"  meaning  a  half  shall  be  for 
Aaron  and  a  half  for  his  sons.  Said  Abayi  to  him :  What  com- 
parison is  this?  Aaron  was  fit  to  receive  a  share ;  and  therefore 
the  Merciful  One  mentioned  him,  that  he  should  take  a  half. 
But  in  this  case  a  woman  is  not  fit  to  be  an  heir  at  all,  when 
there  are  male  children.  Would  it  not  be  sufificient  that  she 
should  take  an  equal  share  with  her  children?  Is  that  so?  Did 
not  such  a  case  happen  in  Nahardea,  and  Samuel  collected  for 
the  woman  a  half;  and  also  in  Tiberias,  and  Johanan  collected 
for  her  a  half?  Furthermore,  when  R.  Itz'hak  b.  Joseph  came 
from  Palestine,  he  told :  It  happened  that  the  government  had 
taxed  the  citizens  of  the  city  and  those  who  had  real  estate  for 
the  manufacture  of  a  crown  for  the  ruler,  and  Rabbi  decided  a 
half  should  be  collected  from  the  citizens,  and  the  other  from 
the  owners  of  real  estate.  But  what  comparison  is  that  with 
what  was  told  by  R.  Itz'hak?  As  to  that  one,  it  is  known  that 
in  previous  orders  from  the  government  they  applied  only  to 
the  rich  citizens,  and  those  who  possessed  real  estate  only  as- 
sisted them,  with  the  consent  of  the  government  But  the 
order  in  question  was  written :  Both  the  rich,  and  real-estate 
owners  are  taxed.     Therefore  Rabbi's  decision. 


320  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

R.  Zera  objected  from  the  following:  If  one  said:  I  intend 
to  bring  a  meal-ofTering,  of  one  hundred  tenths  of  an  ephah 
— to  bring  it  in  two  vessels — he  may  bring  sixty  in  one  ves- 
sel and  forty  in  the  other.  However,  if  he  brought  fifty  and 
fifty,  in  two  vessels,  he  has  fulfilled  his  duty.  We  see,  then, 
that  only  when  he  does  so  it  is  valid;  but  the  law  prescribes 
that  he  must  bring  sixty  in  one  and  forty  in  the  other.  Hence 
v/e  see  that  equal  halves  is  not  to  be  understood  when  he  says 
in  two  parts?  Nay,  this  cannot  be  compared.  We  are  wit- 
nesses that  he  intended  to  bring  a  great  offering;  and  the 
expression  "  in  two  vessels  "  was  because  he  was  aware  that 
it  could  not  be  put  into  one.  Therefore  there  must  be  put  in 
one  vessel  as  much  as  it  can  contain,  and  the  remainder  in  the 
other  one. 

(Says  the  Gemara:)  The  Halakha  prevails  in  accordance 
with  R.  Joseph  in  the  three  cases :  the  case  of  a  field,  mentioned 
in  the  eighth  chapter  (p.  254),  in  the  case  of  a  sudarium  men- 
tioned in  the  preceding  chapter  (p.  253),  and  in  this  case  of  the 
half.  There  was  one  who  had  sent  home  pieces  of  silk,  with- 
out any  order  to  which  member  of  his  household  they  be- 
longed, and  R.  Ami  decided :  Those  which  are  fit  for  the  sons, 
they  shall  use;  and  those  which  are  fit  for  the  daughters,  shall 
be  used  by  them.  This  law,  however,  holds  good  only  in  case 
he  had  no  daughters-in-law;  but  if  such  a  case  should  happen 
when  there  are  daughters-in-law,  and  his  own  daughters  are 
married,  it  is  to  be  supposed  that  he  sent  them  to  the  daughters- 
in-law.  If,  however,  his  own  daughters  were  unmarried,  he 
would  not  neglect  his  daughters,  and  it  is  to  be  supposed  that 
he  sent  them  for  them. 

There  was  one  who  said  in  his  will:  My  sons  shall  inherit 
my  estate.  However,  he  had  only  one  son,  and  some  daugh- 
ters. And  the  question  arose :  By  the  expression  "  sons  "  in 
the  plural,  does  he  mean  the  one  son  only,  excluding  the  daugh- 
ters, or  does  he  mean  to  include  them?  Said  Rabha:  There 
is  a  verse  in  Num.  xxvi.  8,  "  And  the  sons  of  Pallu :  Eliab." 
And  R.  Joseph  said :  There  is  another  verse  in  I  Chron.  ii.  8, 
"  And  the  sons  of  Ethan :  Azaryah."  There  was  another,  who 
said :  "  My  estate  shall  belong  to  my  sons,"  and  he  had  only 
one  son  and  a  grandson.  And  the  question  arose:  Whether 
people  are  used  to  call  grandsons  also  sons?     R.  Hbiba  said: 


TRACT    BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  321 

They  are.  And  Mar  b.  Ashi  maintains:  They  are  not.  And 
there  is  a  Boraitha  in  accordance  with  the  latter,  namely:  If 
one  vowed  not  to  derive  any  benefit  from  his  sons,  he  may 
derive  it  from  the  grandsons. 

MISHNA  ///. :  If  one  left  grown-up  and  minor  sons,  and 
the  former  improved  the  estate,  the  improvement  shall  be 
divided  equally.  If,  however,  they  said :  "  Observe  in  what 
condition  the  estate  was  left  by  our  father,  and  it  shall  be  known 
that  we  are  going  to  improve  it  for  our  own  sake,"  they  have 
a  right  to  take  the  benefit  for  themselves.  The  same  is  the  case 
with  a  widow.  If  she  had  improved  it  without  any  remark, 
the  improvement  belongs  to  all  the  heirs.  But  if  she  re- 
marked, "  Seeing  in  what  condition  my  husband  left,"  etc.,  the 
benefit  belongs  to  her. 

GEMARA :  Said  R.  Hbiba,  son  of  R.  Joseph  b.  Rabha  in 
the  name  of  his  grandfather:  The  Mishna  means  to  say  that 
they  have  improved  the  estate,  not  at  their  own  expense,  but 
at  that  of  the  estate  (i.e.,  they  went  only  to  the  trouble  of  hiring 
laborers  for  improving,  but  at  the  expense  of  the  estate).  But 
if  they  had  expended  from  their  own,  then  the  benefit  belongs 
to  them  without  any  remarks.  Is  that  so  ?  Did  not  R.  Hanina 
say:  If  their  father  left  them  only  covered  wells  (which  are 
usually  higher  for  watering  fields),  the  improvement  is  for  all? 
We  see,  then,  that  although  the  wells  required  much  trouble 
to  preserve  them  from  pollution,  and  they  should  be  always 
covered,  the  improvement  is  nevertheless  for  all?  This  case 
is  different.  It  requires  only  that  they  shall  be  watched;  and 
this  can  be  done  by  minors  also. 

"  Observe  in  what  condition,"  etc.  R.  Saphra's  father  left 
money,  and  R.  Saphra  took  it  for  business  purposes.  His 
brothers  summoned  him  before  Rabha  (demanding  a  share 
from  the  profits).  Said  Rabha  to  them :  R.  Saphra  is  a  great 
man,  and  would  not  leave  his  study  to  trouble  himself  for  the 
sake  of  others. 

"  //  she  had  improved  it,"  etc.  But  what  has  a  woman  to 
do  with  the  estate  of  orphans?  (The  law  dictates  as  to  whether 
she  shall  take  what  belongs  to  her  according  to  her  marriage 
contract,  and  depart;  or  shall  take  upon  herself  the  trouble 
of  the  orphans,  and  be  supported  from  the  estate.  But  she 
has  no  right  to  any  profit.)     Said  R.  Jeremiah :  It  treats  in  case 


322  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

the  woman  were  an  heir  (i.e.,  if  the  will  reads:  She  shall  share 
equally  with  the  orphans).*  But  if  so,  it  is  self-evident.  Lest 
one  say:  As  it  is  not  usual  for  a  woman  to  occupy  herself  with 
business,  therefore  it  should  be  considered  as  she  remarked — 
she  is  doing  it  for  herself,  it  comes  to  teach  us  that  it  is  not  so. 

"  In  what  condition  my  husband  left  it,"  etc.  Is  this  not  self- 
evident?  Lest  one  say:  Because  of  the  pleasure  she  takes  in 
thinking  that  people  praise  her  for  troubling  herself  for  the 
orphans'  sake,  she  relinquishes  the  benefit  in  spite  of  her  pre- 
vious remark,  it  comes  to  teach  us  that  it  is  not  so. 

R.  Hanina  said:  If  one  has  made  the  wedding  of  his  son 
in  one  of  his  houses,  the  son  acquires  title  to  the  house:  pro- 
vided the  son  was  of  age,  married  a  virgin,  and  she  was  his  first 
wife,  and  this  wedding  was  the  first  of  his  house.  It  is  certain 
that  when  the  father  has  separated  for  this  wedding  a  house 
with  an  attic,  the  son  acquires  title  to  the  house,  but  not  to  the 
attic.  But  how  is  it  if  on  the  house  was  a  balcony?  or  there 
were  two  houses,  one  inside  of  the  other?  Is  title  given  to 
both,  or  only  to  that  in  which  the  wedding  took  place?  These 
questions  remain  undecided.  An  objection  was  raised:  If  the 
father  had  separated  for  his  son  a  house  and  furniture,  the  son 
acquires  title  to  the  furniture,  but  not  to  the  house?  This 
Boraitha  treats  of  when  the  treasurer  of  his  father  was  still  in 
the  house.  So  said  R.  Jeremiah.  And  the  Nahardean  said: 
Even  when  there  was  left  his  pigeon-coop.  And  both  R,  Je- 
hudah  and  R.  Papi  said:  It  suffices  if  his  father  left  there  a 
vessel  with  roasted  fish  (i.e.,  this  shows  that  he  has  not  relin- 
quished his  right  to  the  house).  Mar  Zutra  left  his  sandals  in 
the  wedding  house  which  he  separated  for  his  son,  and  R. 
Ashi  a  bottle  of  oil  (for  the  purpose  said  above).  Said  Mar 
Zutra :  The  following  three  things  the  rabbis  enacted  as  laws,t 
without  giving  any  reason:  The  case  just  mentioned;  and  that 
which  was  said  above  in  the  name  of  Samuel:  If  one  has  be- 


*  The  commentators  Rashbam,  Tosphath,  and  Bach  discuss  at  length  how  the 
widow  is  an  heir  also,  illustrating,  f.^f.,  if  one  has  married  the  daughter  of  his  brother, 
who  has  no  other  children  besides  her,  and  the  brother  has  inherited  the  estate  of 
their  father,  and  thereafter  both  brothers  die,  then  the  widow  of  the  one  brother  is 
also  an  heir  to  the  estate  of  her  grandfather,  which  belonged  to  her  father,  who  had 
no  heirs  except  her.  There  are  also  some  other  illustrations,  but  all  are  complicated. 
We  give  the  last,  which  is  simyile. 

f  Gershom  explains  Sinaic  laws,  with  which  Rashbam  does  not  agree. 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  323 

queathed  all  his  estates  to  his  wife,  she  is  considered  a  guardian 
only;  and  also  that  which  was  said  by  Rabh.  If  A  said  to  B: 
You  owe  me  a  mana,  give  it  to  C,  and  all  the  three  were  pres- 
ent, title  is  given  to  C. 

MISHNA  IV. :  Brothers  partners  in  business.  If  one  of 
them  was  taken  by  the  government  to  work  for  it,  the  damage 
caused  by  his  absence,  and  also  the  profit  for  the  business  dur- 
ing that  time,  must  be  counted  to  the  partnership.  If,  how- 
ever, he  becomes  sick,  and  has  to  be  cured,  it  is  at  his  own 
expense. 

GEMARA :  The  rabbis  taught :  If  the  government  had  ap- 
pointed one  of  the  brothers  as  a  collector,  or  a  military  pur- 
veyor, if  this  was  because  of  the  duty  of  the  house,  it  must  be 
counted  for  all  of  them,  but  if  it  was  because  of  his  personal 
fitness,  then  it  is  for  himself.  Is  this  not  self-evident,  because 
the  duty  of  the  house  must  be  counted  for  all?  It  treats  of 
when  he  was  a  genius.  Lest  one  say:  In  such  a  case  it  must 
not  be  counted  for  the  house,  because  he  was  taken  on  account 
of  his  genius,  it  comes  to  teach  us  that  it  is  not  so. 

The  rabbis  taught :  If  one  of  the  brothers  took  two  hundred 
zuz,  to  begin  the  study  of  the  Torah,  or  to  learn  a  trade,  they 
may  say  to  him :  If  you  are  with  us,  you  have  to  be  supported; 
but  not  otherwise.  But  why  not  support  him,  by  deducting 
what  his  labor  was  worth  to  the  house?  This  may  be  a  sup- 
port to  R.  Huna's  statement,  who  said  elsewhere :  The  blessing 
of  the  house  increases  when  there  are  more  people  (i.e.,  because 
the  expenses  of  the  house  do  not  decrease  when  there  is  one 
person  less).  But,  after  all,  let  them  support  him  even  in  his 
absence  for  the  profits,  owing  to  his  share  after  deducting  his 
labor  and  the  expenses.     Yea,  this  in  reality  they  have  to  do. 

"  If,  hoivcvcr,  he  becomes  sick,"  etc.  Rabbin  sent  a  message 
in  the  name  of  R.  Ilah :  The  Mishna  means  to  say :  In  case  he 
himself  causes  his  sickness;  but  if  he  was  occasionally  sick,  the 
cure  must  be  at  the  expense  of  the  house.  What  does  it  mean : 
"  Caused  by  himself  "  ?  As  R.  Hanina  says :  All  sickness  comes 
from  Providence,  except  cold,  x^s  it  is  written  [Prov.  xxii.  5] : 
"  Thorns  *  and  snares  are  in  the  way  of  the  perverse  man ;  he 
that  doth  guard  his  soul  will  keep  far  from  them." 

*  The  term  in  Hebrew  is  "zinim,"  and  "  zinha"  means  cold  ;  and  so  it  is  taken 
by  the  Talmud.     The  basis  of  Leaser's  translation  is  unknown. 


324  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

MISHNA  v.:  If,  while  the  father  of  the  house  was  still 
alive,  he  sent  through  some  of  the  brothers  presents  to  wed- 
dings of  his  friends,  and  after  his  death  some  of  the  brothers 
married  and  the  presents  were  returned  to  them  by  the  same 
friends,  it  is  to  be  counted  to  the  income  of  the  house;  as  the 
wedding  presents  may  be  replevined  by  the  court.  If,  how- 
ever, one  presents  to  his  friends  pitchers  of  wine  or  oil,  it  is 
not  to  be  replevined  by  the  court,  as  this  is  reckoned  a  be- 
stowing of  favors  only. 

GEMARA:  There  is  a  contradiction  from  the  following: 
"  If  the  father  sent,  through  one  of  his  sons,  a  present  to  the 
wedding  of  his  friend,  and  told  him  to  remain  there  during  the 
wedding,  then,  when  this  present  returns  to  the  son's  wedding, 
it  belongs  to  him  only.  If,  however,  a  wedding  present  was 
sent  to  the  father,  the  returning  must  be  at  the  expense  of  the 
house."  Hence  we  see  that  the  son  may  preserve  the  return- 
ing present  for  himself;  and  this  contradicts  our  Mishna.  Said 
R.  Assi  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan :  Our  Mishna  also  treats: 
When  the  wedding  present  was  first  sent  to  the  father.  But 
does  not  the  Mishna  state:  Through  some  of  the  brothers? 
Read  to  some  of  the  brothers.  But  the  Mishna  states  farther 
on:  If  it  was  returned?  It  means:  If  this  came  to  be  re- 
turned by  the  brothers,  it  must  be  returned  at  the  expense  of 
the  house.  R.  Assi  himself,  however,  said :  It  presents  no 
difficulty  (there  is  no  necessity  for  such  a  complicated  explana- 
tion of  the  Mishna,  as  it  can  be  explained  thus).  Our  Mishna 
treats:  When  the  father  sent  the  present  through  one  of  his 
sons,  without  designating  that  the  returns  should  belong  to 
him,  then  the  returns  belong  to  the  house.  And  the  Boraitha 
treats:  When  the  father  has  nominated  one  of  his  sons  to  de- 
liver the  present,  so  that  the  returning  should  belong  to  him. 
Samuel,  however,  said :  The  law  is  to  be  practised  in  accord- 
ance with  the  Boraitha.  And  our  Mishna  treats:  In  case  the 
son  through  whom  the  present  was  sent  dies  childless,  and  his 
brother  came  to  marry  his  wife,  who  according  to  the  law  is 
also  his  heir.  However,  this  present  he  does  not  inherit  from 
him;  because  there  is  a  rule  that  this  brother  does  not  inherit 
property  which  was  not  yet  in  the  deceased's  possession,  but 
has  to  come  to  him  in  the  future.  (Says  the  Gemara:)  From 
Samuel's  statement  is  to  be  inferred  that  the  one  who  has  re- 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA    (LAST   GATE).  325 

ceived  the  present  is  obliged  to  return,  even  if  the  donator  were 
dead.  Why,  then,  let  him  say:  Give  me  my  friend  who  pre- 
sented it  to  me,  and  I  shall  enjoy  myself  and  give  him  a 
present,  as  he  did  to  me.  But  as  this  cannot  be,  I  am  not 
obliged  to  anything.  As  we  have  learned  in  the  following  Bo- 
raitha:  At  those  places  where  it  is  customary  to  return  the 
presents  which  the  bride  has  given  to  her  groom  at  the  time  of 
betrothal,  and  she  dies  before  marriage,  they  must  be  returned. 
At  the  place  where  it  is  not  customary,  they  must  not.  And  R. 
Joseph  b.  Abba  in  the  name  of  Mar  Uqba,  quoting  Samuel, 
said:  Even  at  those  places  where  it  is  customary  to  return,  it 
is  only  in  case  the  bride  dies ;  but  when  the  groom,  it  must  not 
be  returned,  for  the  reason  that  she  may  say :  Give  me  my  hus- 
band, and  I  will  enjoy  myself  with  him,  as  for  that  purpose  he 
gave  them  to  me.  Hence  he  may  say  also :  Give  me  my  friend, 
and  I  will  enjoy  with  him.  Said  R.  Joseph :  It  speaks  of  when 
his  friend  was  at  the  wedding  and  had  enjoyed  himself  with  him 
all  the  seven  days  of  the  wedding,  and  the  groom  suddenly  dies 
before  the  present  was  returned  to  him. 

Shall  we  assume  that  in  the  above-mentioned  claim  of  the 
bride,  "  Give  me  my  husband,"  etc.,  the  Tanaim  of  the  following 
Boraitha  differ:  If  one  has  betrothed  a  woman,  and  dies  be- 
fore marriage  (and  the  marriage  contract  was  already  written), 
a  virgin  collects  two  hundred  and  a  widow  one  hundred  zuz. 
Concerning  the  presents  given  at  the  betrothal,  however,  it  is 
to  be  practised  as  is  customary  at  that  place.  So  is  the  decree 
of  R.  Nathan.  R.  Jehudah  the  Prince,  however,  said:  In 
reality,  it  was  decided  that  in  the  place  where  it  is  customary 
to  return,  it  must  be  returned;  and  where  it  is  not  customary 
it  must  not.  Now  does  not  R.  Jehudah  repeat  what  was  said 
by  the  first  Tana?  It  must  then  be  assumed  that  the  point  of 
the  difference  is :  If  the  bride  may  claim :  "  Give  me  my  hus- 
band," etc.,  and  the  Boraitha  is  not  complete  and  should  read 
thus :  If  one  betroths  a  woman,  a  virgin  collects  two  hundred 
and  a  widow  one  hundred  zuz,  provided  he  has  withdrawn  from 
the  contract.  But  if  she  dies,  if  it  was  in  a  place  where  it  was 
customary  to  return,  it  must  be  done  so;  and  if  where  it  was 
not,  it  must  not.  But  all  this  is  in  case  she  dies.  But  if  he 
dies,  there  is  to  be  no  return,  as  she  may  claim:  Give  me  my 
husband,  etc.     And  to  this  R.  Jehudah  the  Prince  came  to  say: 


326  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Even  in  the  latter  case  it  must  be  done  according  to  the  cus- 
tom of  that  place,  as  such  a  claim  is  not  to  be  considered? 
Nay!  All  agree  that  the  claim  in  question  is  to  be  considered; 
and  there  is  no  difference  between  them  in  case  he  dies.  But 
in  case  she  dies,  they  differ.  And  the  point  of  their  difference 
is :  Whether  the  presents  with  which  she  was  betrothed  should 
be  considered  lost  forever.  According  to  R.  Nathan,  they  are 
not  so  considered;  and  according  to  R.  Jehudah,  they  are.  But 
does  not  the  Boraitha  state  that  where  it  is  customary  to  return, 
it  must  be  so  done?  This  means  presents  which  were  given  by 
him  aside  from  the  betrothal.  And  the  Tanaim  of  this  Borai- 
tha are  in  accordance  with  the  Tanaim  of  the  following :  If  one 
has  betrothed  his  bride  with  a  talent  (a  coin — according  to  some 
one  hundred  and  twenty  manas,  and  to  others  sixty,  and  accord- 
ing to  Rashbam  twenty-five),  a  virgin  collects  two  hundred  zuz 
besides  the  talent,  and  a  widow  one  hundred.  So  is  the  de- 
cree of  R.  Meir.  R.  Jehudah,  however,  maintains:  A  virgin 
two  hundred,  and  a  widow  one  hundred  of  the  talent;  and  the 
remainder  must  be  returned.  But  R.  Jose  said :  If  he  has  be- 
trothed her  with  twenty,  he  may  give  her  thirty  halves;  and  if 
with  thirty,  he  may  give  her  twenty  halves.  Let  us  see  of  what 
kind  of  case  this  Boraitha  speaks.  In  case  she  dies,  there  is  no 
longer  any  marriage  contract;  and  if  he  dies,  why  should  she 
return  the  remainder?  Is  it  not  said  above  that  all  agree  that 
the  betrothal  money  must  not  be  returned,  as  the  claim :  "  Give 
me  my  husband,"  etc.,  is  to  be  considered?  And  if  you  should 
say:  It  speaks  in  case  she  had  sinned;  then  if  intentionally, 
has  she  still  a  right  to  her  marriage  contract?  And  if  unin- 
tentionally, he  may  marry  her  if  he  be  a  commoner.  It  must 
be  then  said  that  it  speaks  of  when  the  groom  was  a  priest,  and 
she  was  forced  to  sin  (and  in  such  a  case  a  commoner  may,  and 
a  priest  may  not  marry  her).  And  the  point  of  their  differ- 
ence is,  that  R.  Meir  holds  the  money  of  betrothal  to  be  lost 
forever,  and  R.  Jehudah  holds  that  it  is  not;  and  to  R.  Jose  it 
was  doubtful  whether  yes  or  no.  And  therefore  he  maintains 
that,  according  to  the  rule,  doubtful  money  is  to  be  divided. 
If  he  has  betrothed  her  with  twenty  selas  (eighty  zuz),  she  has 
to  return  to  him  forty  zuz.  However,  he  has  to  complete  the 
amount  belonging  to  a  widow  as  a  marriage  contract,  which  is 
one  hundred  zuz;  therefore  he  gives  her  thirty  half-selas,  which 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  327 

are  sixty  zuz,  and  this  completes  the  mana  to  which  she  is  en- 
titled. And  if  he  betrothed  her  with  thirty  selas,  she  has  to 
return  to  him  fifteen,  and  he  must  give  her  twenty  half-selas 
more.  Said  R.  Joseph  b.  Minumi  in  the  name  of  R.  Na'hman : 
Babylon  is  the  place  where  it  is  customary  to  return.  And  by 
Babylon  he  meant  the  city  of  Nahardea.  But  how  is  it  with 
the  other  cities  in  Babylon  ?  Both  Rabba  and  R.  Joseph  say : 
The  betrothal  money  is  not  to  be  returned;  but  the  presents 
are.  Said  R.  Papa:  The  Halakha  prevails,  whether  he  or  she 
dies,  or  he  has  retracted,  the  presents  only  are  to  be  returned, 
but  not  the  betrothal  money.  And  in  case  she  has  retracted, 
the  betrothal  money  also.  Amimar,  however,  maintains  that 
even  in  the  latter  case  the  money  must  not  be  returned,  for  the 
reason  that  one  may  say  that  he  is  then  allowed  to  be  betrothed 
to  her  sister  {i.e.,  if  one  should  see  the  betrothal  money  re- 
turned, he  might  think  the  betrothal  cancelled,  and  he  might 
marry  her  sister,  which  is  biblically  prohibited  so  long  as  she 
is  alive).  But  according  to  R.  Ashi :  This  is  not  to  be  feared, 
as  the  divorce  in  her  hands  testifies  that  the  betrothal  was  not 
cancelled.  (Said  the  Gemara:)  R.  Ashi's  statement  is  not  to 
be  taken  into  consideration  at  all;  as  one  may  be  aware  that  she 
has  returned  the  betrothal  money,  and  not  be  aware  that  she 
took  a  divorce. 

"  May  be  replevined,"  etc.  The  rabbis  taught :  The  follow- 
ing five  things  were  said  about  wedding  presents:  (a)  They 
may  be  collected  by  the  court;  (b)  they  are  returned  at  the 
time  when  the  donator  marries;  (c)  they  are  not  considered 
usurious  {i.e.,  if  the  return  was  of  a  greater  value  than  pre- 
sented); (d)  the  Sabbatic  year  does  not  release  them;  (e)  a  first- 
born has  no  double  share  in  them.  They  are  collected  by  the 
court,  because  they  are  considered  a  loan.  They  are  not  usu- 
rious, because  they  were  not  presented  with  this  intention.  The 
Sabbatic  year  does  not  release  them,  because  the  verse  Deut. 
XV.  2  does  not  apply  to  them.  And  the  first-born  does  not  take 
a  double  share  in  them,  because  they  are  not  as  yet  in  existence, 
and  he  is  not  entitled  to  that  which  will  be  an  inheritance  in 
the  future. 

R.  Kahana  said :  The  following  is  the  rule :  If  one  came  into 
the  city,  and  heard  that  his  comrade,  who  was  at  his  wedding, 
marries,  he  must  come  and  make  a  present.     The  same  is  the 


328  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

case  if  he  heard  the  voice  of  the  drum  which  announced  the 
marriage  of  his  comrade;  but  if  it  was  not  drummed,  the  groom 
ought  to  let  him  know.  However,  if  he  failed  to  do  so,  al- 
though he  may  be  away,  he  nevertheless  must  pay.  In  such  a 
case,  however,  he  may  deduct  for  the  meal  of  which  he  has  not 
partaken.  And  how  much  may  he  deduct  ?  Said  Abayi :  The 
inhabitants  of  the  city  of  Ganna  used  to  deduct  one  zuz.  How- 
ever, this  depends  upon  the  value  at  which  one  would  appraise 
the  respect  and  honor  of  attendance  at  the  wedding  banquet. 
The  rabbis  taught :  If  one  has  married  publicly,  and  thereafter, 
by  returning  the  presents,  he  wishes  to  be  married  privately, 
he  has  a  right  to  say:  As  you  did  with  me  publicly,  I  will 
do  with  you;  but  not  when  privately.  The  same  is  the  case  if 
one  has  married  a  virgin,  and  the  other  marries  a  widow;  or, 
if  one  has  married  a  second  wife,  and  his  comrade  marries  his 
first  wife,  the  former  may  say:  As  you  have  done  with  me,  I 
will  do  with  you.  The  same  is  the  case  if  to  him  it  was  done 
once,  and  his  comrade  demands  from  him  he  shall  do  twice. 

The  rabbis  taught:  Who  is  like  unto  a  wealthy  man  who 
is  known  to  be  rich  by  his  many  cattle  and  estates?  The  one 
who  is  a  master  in  Haggadah  (as  he  lectures  everywhere,  and  be- 
comes known  to  all).  Who  is  like  unto  a  broker  who  does  busi- 
ness at  his  home  only  and  is  not  well  known  to  the  community? 
The  one  who  occupies  himself  with  pilpulistic  (dialectology, 
one  who  is  a  master  in  dialectics).  Who  is  like  unto  one  who 
makes  his  living  by  selling  things  which  are  to  be  measured — 
who  gathers  his  money  little  by  little,  which  finally  becomes  a 
considerable  amount?  The  one  who  gathers  the  decisions  of 
the  rabbis,  little  by  little,  and  finally  possesses  a  great  deal  of 
wisdom.  However,  all  are  dependent  to  the  owner  of  wheat, 
which  is  the  Gemara,  as  only  by  the  studying  of  it  are  we  able  to 
understand  the  Mishnayoth  and  the  Boraithas. 

R.  Zera  in  the  name  of  Rabh  said:  It  is  written  [Prov.  xv. 
15]:  "All  the  days  of  the  afflicted  are  evil."  It  means:  The 
masters  of  Gemara  (because  they  must  find  out  how  to  decide 
the  laws  from  the  Mishnayoth,  which  always  need  an  explana- 
tion). "  But  he  that  is  of  a  cheerful  heart,"  etc.,  means :  the  one 
who  is  a  master  in  Mishnayoth.  Rabba,  however,  maintains 
the  reverse.  He  who  is  a  master  in  Mishnayoth  cannot  come 
to  any  conclusion  about  Halakha;  but  he  who  is  a  master  in 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  329 

Gemara  knows  how  to  decide  Halakhas.  And  this  is  what  R. 
Mesharshia  said  in  his  name:  It  is  written  [Eccl.  x.  9] :  "  He 
that  moves  stones  will  be  hurt  through  them,"  meaning  the 
masters  of  the  Mishna.  "  He  that  cleaveth  wood  will  be  en- 
dangered thereby,"  means  the  masters  of  Gemara  (because 
they  do  not  always  succeed  in  finding  out  the  correct  decisions). 
R.  Hanina  said :  "  All  the  days  of  the  afflicted,"  etc.,  means 
him  who  has  a  bad  wife.  "  But  he  who  is  of  a  cheerful  heart," 
etc.,  means  him  who  has  a  good  wife.  R.  Janai  said:  "  All  the 
days  of  the  afflicted,"  etc.,  means  one  who  is  effeminate.  "  And 
he  that  is  of  a  cheerful  heart,"  etc.,  means  him  who  is  hardened 
to  the  ways  of  the  world.  R.  Johanan  said:  By  the  first  is 
meant  him  whose  nature  is  merciful,  and  who  takes  to  heart 
everything  which  happens  to  his  fellow-men;  and  by  the  sec- 
ond is  meant  him  who  is  callous.  R.  Jehoshua  b.  Levi  said: 
The  first  means  him  who  is  a  pedant;  and  the  second,  him  whose 
mind  is  worldly.* 

MISHNA  VI. :  If  one  sends  presents  to  the  house  of  his 
betrothed's  father,  to  the  value  of  one  hundred  manas,  and  has 
partaken  of  the  betrothal  meal,  even  for  one  dinar,  they  are 
not  to  be  returned.  If,  however,  he  did  not  partake,  they  may 
be  returned  in  case  of  retraction.  If  the  presents  were  given 
for  the  purpose  that  the  bride  should  bring  them,  after  her 
marriage,  to  her  husband's  house,  they  are  to  be  returned. 
But  if  such  is  to  be  used  while  she  is  yet  in  her  father's  house, 
they  are  not. 

GEMARA:  Said  Rabha:  It  means  if  he  has  partaken  of 
no  less  than  the  value  of  a  dinar;  but  if  less,  he  has  a  right  to 
demand  a  return.  Is  this  not  self-evident?  The  Mishna  states 
a  dinar?  Lest  one  say  this  statement  is  only  general,  but  not 
particular,  he  came  to  say  that  this  is  to  be  taken  literally. 
Here  in  the  Mishna  it  is  eating.  But  how  is  it  if  he  drank,  or 
his  substitute  had  partaken?  Also,  how  is  it  if  they  had  sent 
to  him  ?  Come  and  hear.  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Samuel 
said:  It  happened  with  one  who  had  sent  to  his  betrothed's 
father  one  hundred  carrums  containing  pitchers  of  wine  and 
oil,  and  vessels  of  silver  and  gold,  and  silk  garments ;  and  while 
he  was  joyful  over  the  act,  he  rode  on  his  horse  to  the  gate  of 

•  The  second  explanation  to  this  verse  by  the  same  authority  will  be  ia 
Chapter  XI.  of  Tract  Sanhedrin  as  the  proper  place. 


330  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

his  betrothed's  father,  where  they  gave  him  a  goblet  of  a  warm 
beverage  which  he  drank  while  sitting  on -the  horse.  There- 
after he  died  before  marriage.  And  R.  Aha,  the  mayor  of  that 
city,  brought  this  case  up  before  the  sages  in  the  college  of 
Usha,  and  they  decided :  Such  presents  as  may  become  spoiled 
before  marriage  are  not  to  be  returned,  but  such  as  are  in  good 
condition  may.  Hence  we  see  even  if  one  has  not  eaten,  but 
drunk,  it  is  the  same.  Infer  from  this  also  that  the  value  of 
what  he  had  drunk  was  less  than  a  dinar  (as  a  goblet  of  warm 
beverage  cannot  amount  to  a  dinar).  Said  R.  Ashi :  Who  can 
assure  us  that  the  goblet  to  which  they  treated  him  was  not 
worth  a  thousand  zuz,  as  perhaps  they  had  ground  a  pearl  * 
of  that  value  in  the  goblet?  But  infer  from  this  that  if  they 
had  sent  to  his  house,  it  is  the  same  as  if  he  had  partaken  of  it 
at  the  house  of  his  betrothed's  father?  Nay!  Perhaps  at  the 
gate  of  his  betrothed's  father  is  the  same  as  if  he  had  partaken 
of  it  inside  the  house.  The  schoolmen  questioned :  How  is  it 
when  the  presents  have  improved — e.g.,  if  he  had  made  presents 
in  cattle  and  they  brought  offspring?  Shall  we  say,  because 
they  have  to  be  returned  to  him,  they  are  to  be  considered 
under  his  control,  and  belong  to  him ;  or,  because  if  they  should 
be  lost,  payment  for  them  would  be  demanded,  they  are  con- 
sidered under  the  control  of  his  betrothed's  father?  This  ques- 
tion remains  undecided. 

Rabha  questioned:  The  presents  which  are  usually  spoiled 
during  the  time  from  the  betrothal  to  marriage — how  is  it  if 
they  were  in  good  condition;  must  they  be  returned,  or  not? 
Come  and  hear  the  Boraitha  cited  above:  "  R.  Aha,  the  mayor 
of  that  city,  brought  the  matter  up  before  the  sages  of  Usha, 
who  decided:  If  they  are  liable  to  be  spoiled,  they  are  not  to 
be  returned."  Does  it  not  mean  although  they  are  in  good 
condition?  Nay,  it  may  mean  if  they  were  spoiled.  Come, 
then,  and  hear  the  last  part  of  our  Mishna:  "  But  if  they  be 
used  while  she  is  yet  in  her  father's  house  they  are  not?  "  This 
was  explained  by  Rabha  to  be  nets  and  veils.  R.  Jehudah 
in  the  name  of  Rabh  said:  It  happened  with  one  who  sent  to 
the  house  of  his  betrothed's  father,  wine,  oil,  and  garments  of 
flax;  all  of  them  new  of  that  year  at  the  time  of  Pentecost. 

•  In  ancieot  times  they  used  to  grind  pearls  and  diamonds  in  medicine. 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA    (LAST   GATE).  331 

But  what  news  came  he  to  tell  us?  If  you  wish,  he  tells  us  the 
great  value  of  the  land  of  Israel;  and  if  you  wish,  it  may  be 
said  that  he  came  to  teach  us :  If  one  claims  that  he  had  done 
so  at  such  a  time,  his  claim  is  to  be  considered.  The  same  said 
again  in  the  name  of  the  same  authority :  It  happened  with  one, 
that  he  was  told  that  his  betrothed  wife  could  not  smell.  He 
went  after  her  into  a  ruined  building  to  test  her,  and  said:  I 
perceive  a  smell  of  radishes  {i.e.,  he  kept  in  his  pockets  some  for 
the  purpose  of  testing  her,  whether  she  would  smell  them),  and 
she  answered  him  sarcastically:  If  one  should  furnish  me  with 
the  dates  of  Jericho,  I  would  eat  them  with  the  radishes  I 
smell.  Thereupon  the  ruined  building  fell  and  she  died.  And 
the  sages  decided :  Because  her  husband  entered  the  ruin 
only  for  the  purpose  of  testing,  he  has  no  right  to  inherit 
from  her. 

"  But  if  they  be  used  while  in  her  father's  house,"  etc.  Rabbin 
the  elder  was  sitting  before  R.  Papa  and  said :  This  is  only  in 
case  death  occurred  to  one  of  them;  but  if  he  had  retracted, 
the  presents  are  to  be  returned,  but  not  what  he  had  expended 
for  the  banquets.  If,  however,  she  had  retracted,  even  the  value 
of  a  bundle  of  herbs  is  to  be  returned.  Said  R.  Huna  b.  R. 
Jehoshua:  The  value  of  the  meat  used  at  the  banquets  must 
be  appraised  at  the  cheapest  price.  How  cheap  should  it  be? 
A  third  of  the  existing  price. 

MISHNA  VII.:  If  a  sick  person  had  bequeathed  all  his 
estates  to  strangers,  leaving  some  ground  for  himself,  his  gift 
is  considered  valid.     If,  however,  he  left  nothing,  it  is  invalid. 

GEMARA:  Who  is  the  Tana  who  holds  that  we  may  act 
in  accordance  with  the  supposed  intention  of  the  bequeather 
(as  the  Mishna  states,  "  If  he  left  nothing  for  himself  it  is  in- 
valid," which  means,  if  the  sick  person  becomes  cured,  he  may 
retract:  because  if  he  could  know  that  he  would  remain  alive, 
he  would  not  do  so)?  Said  R.  Na'hman:  It  is  according  to 
Simeon  b.  Menasia  of  the  previous  chapter  (p.  291).  R.  She- 
sheth,  however,  maintains :  This  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Simeon 
of  Shizuri  of  Tract  Gittin  (Chapter  VI.,  Mishna  6),  who  said: 
Also  who  is  dangerously  sick.  Who  is  the  Tana  of  what  the  rab- 
bis taught  in  the  following  Tosephtha :  If  one  was  sick  in  bed, 
and  he  was  questioned  to  whom  he  bequeathed  his  estates, 
and  he  said :  "  I  thought  that  I  had  a  son,  but  now  that  I  am 


332  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

convinced  I  have  not,  I  bequeath  my  estates  to  so  and  so  ";  or, 
"  I  thought  that  my  wife  was  pregnant,  but  now  that  I  know 
she  is  not,  I  bequeath  them  to  so  and  so";  and  thereafter  it 
became  known  that  he  left  a  son,  or  that  his  wife  was  pregnant, 
this  bequeathing  counts  nothing — shall  we  assume  that  it  is 
in  accordance  with  R.  Simeon  b.  Menasia  and  not  with  the 
rabbis?  Nay!  It  may  be  even  in  accordance  with  the  rabbis, 
as  when  he  said :  "  I  thought,"  etc.,  it  is  different.  Why  was  it 
supposed  previously  that  this  should  not  be  in  accordance  with 
the  rabbis?  Lest  one  say  that  the  sick  person  said  it  only  to 
mention  his  sorrow,  but  he  did  not  think  that  it  should  not  be 
bequeathed  if  he  did  have  a  son,  it  comes  to  teach  us  that  it  is 
not  so.  R.  Zera  in  the  name  of  Rabh  said :  Whence  do  we 
deduce  that  a  gift  of  a  sick  person  must  be  biblically  considered? 
Because  it  is  written  [Num.  xxvii.  8]  :  "  Then  shall  he  cause  to 
pass  unto  his  daughter  "  (i.e.,  it  should  be  written  as  elsewhere : 
You  shall  give  the  estates),  it  comes  to  teach  that  there  is  an- 
other case  which  we  have  to  pass,  and  this  is  the  gift  of  a  sick 
person.  R.  Na'hman  in  the  name  of  Rabba  b.  Abuhu,  how- 
ever, maintains  from  [ibid.,  verse  9]  :  "  Shall  ye  give  his  in- 
heritance unto  his  brothers  "  (which  is  also  superfluous,  as  it 
should  read  :  If  no  daughter,  then  to  the  brothers),  which  teaches 
that  there  is  another  gift  which  is  to  be  considered  valid,  and 
that  is,  of  a  sick  person.  R.  Menasia  b.  Jeremiah  said:  It  is 
deduced  from  [II  Kings,  xx.  i]  :  "Give  thy  charge  to  thy 
house,"  etc.,  from  which  we  see  that  concerning  a  sick  person 
it  is  sufficient  when  he  charges  without  any  writing.  And 
Rami  b.  Ezekiel  said:  From  the  following  [II  Samuel,  xvii. 
23]  :  "And  Achithophel  .  .  .  and  gave  his  charge  to  his 
household,"  etc.,  we  see  that  charging  is  sufficient  without  any 
writing. 

The  rabbis  taught:  The  following  three  things  has  Achi- 
thophel charged  his  sons :  You  shall  not  quarrel  with  each  other; 
you  shall  not  rebel  against  the  kingdom  of  David;  and  if  the 
Day  of  Pentecost  be  a  clear  one,  you  may  begin  to  sow  wheat. 
Mar  Zutra,  however,  said:  It  was  taught  that  he  said:  If  it 
should  be  cloudy.  Nahardeans  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Jacob: 
Not  exactly  clear,  and  not  exactly  cloudy;  as,  if  it  should  be  a 
little  cloudy,  with  a  north  wind  blowing,  it  is  also  considered 
clear.     Said  R.  Abba  to  R.  Ashi :  We,  however,  do  not  rely 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  333 

upon  the  cited  Boraitha,  but  on  what  is  said  by  R.  Itz'hak  b. 
Abdimiin  Tract  Yoma  (p.  29,  Hnes  14,  15,  etc.). 

[There  is  a  Boraitha  by  Abba  Shaul:  If  the  Day  of  Pente- 
cost be  clear,  it  is  a  good  sign  for  the  whole  year.  R.  Zebid 
said:  If  the  first  day  of  the  new  year  is  a  warm  one,  the  whole 
year  will  be  warm;  and  if  cold,  the  whole  year  will  be  so.  And 
to  what  purpose  was  it  said?  Concerning  the  prayer  of  the 
high  priest  on  the  Day  of  Atonement  (that  he  should  pray  ac- 
cordingly).] Rabha,  however,  in  the  name  of  R.  Na'hman 
said:  The  gift  of  a  sick  person  is  rabbinical.  And  it  was  so 
enacted  that  a  sick  person  should  not  become  exhausted,  being 
aware  that,  because  he  is  sick  and  cannot  write  down  or  sign 
his  will,  he  can  do  nothing  with  his  property.  But  did,  indeed, 
R.  Na'hman  say  so?  Did  he  not  say:  Although  Samuel  de- 
cided :  If  one  sold  a  promissory  note  to  his  neighbor,  and  there- 
after relinquished  his  right  in  it,  his  act  is  valid;  and  even  his 
heir  may  do  so?  He  (Samuel)  nevertheless  admits  that  if  he 
gave  this  note  to  some  one  as  a  gift,  he  has  no  longer  right  to 
relinquish  his  debt,  even  if  he  becomes  cured.  Now,  this  would 
be  correct  if  the  gift  of  a  sick  person  were  biblical;  but  if  it 
is  rabbinical,  why  should  he  not  be  able  to  relinquish  it  when 
cured  ?  It  is  true  it  is  not  biblical,  but  the  rabbis  have  enacted 
that  this  law  should  be  equal  to  a  biblical  one. 

Rabha  in  the  name  of  R.  Na'hman  said :  If  a  sick  person  said : 
"  A  shall  reside  in  such  a  house,"  or,  '*  B  shall  consume  the 
products  of  such  and  such  a  tree,"  he  said  nothing,  unless  he 
said :  "  Give  such  and  such  a  house  to  A,  that  he  may  reside 
there  ";  "  Give  such  and  such  a  tree  to  B,  and  he  shall  consume 
its  products."  Is  it  meant  to  say  that  R.  Na'hman  holds  that 
a  sick  person  who  verbally  wills  has  no  more  right  than  one 
who  is  in  good  health — i.e.,  if  one  who  is  in  good  health  should 
say :  "  He  shall  reside  there,"  it  would  not  be  considered  a  gift 
even  if  it  were  done  with  the  ceremony  of  a  sudarium;  then  it 
would  contradict  another  saying  of  Rabha's  in  the  name  of  R. 
Na'hman :  If  a  sick  person  said :  "  The  loan  made  by  me  to  A 
shall  be  given  to  B,"  he  is  to  be  Hstened  to,  which  is  not  the 
case  with  one  in  good  health,  as  title  cannot  be  given  to  a  loan 
which  is  made  with  the  intention  that  the  borrower  shall  ex- 
pend it.  (Hence  we  see  that  a  sick  person  has  more  right  than 
one  in  good  health.)     Said  R.  Papa ;  The  reason  of  this  law  is, 


334  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

because  an  heir  inherits  it,  it  is  considered  as  if  it  were  under 
the  control  of  the  borrower.  And  farther  on  it  is  said  that  the 
gift  of  a  sick  person  is  considered  as  an  inheritance.  R.  Aha 
b.  R.  Aiqua,  however,  said  :To  transfer  a  loan  is  lawful,  even  for 
him  who  is  in  good  health  in  case  it  were  made  in  the  presence 
of  all  three,  as  is  said  above  by  R.  Huna. 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question :  If  the  sick  per- 
son bequeaths  a  tree  to  A  and  the  products  of  it  to  B,  should 
it  be  considered  as  if  he  reserved  it  for  himself,  in  such  a  case 
it  being  said  above  that  he  cannot  retract  when  cured,  or  is  it 
not  so  considered?  And  should  you  decide  that  it  is  not  so 
considered  when  he  bequeaths  the  products  to  another,  how  is 
it  if  he  said :  I  bequeath  the  tree  to  A,  except  the  products.  Is 
this  considered  as  if  he  reserved  some  of  the  ground  for  him- 
self, or  not?  Said  Rabha  in  the  name  of  R.  Na'hman:  Even 
if  it  should  be  decided,  the  products  to  another,  it  cannot  be 
counted  that  he  reserved  some  of  the  ground  for  himself,  it  is 
to  be  counted  as  if  he  left  the  products  to  himself,  for  the  reason 
that  if  one  left  to  himself,  he  does  it  with  a  good  eye.  Said  R. 
Abba  to  R.  Ashi:  We  taught  R.  Na'hman's  statement  as  to 
what  was  said  above  (p.  153)  by  Resh  Lakish  concerning  a 
house  and  an  attic;  and  in  accordance  with  R.  Zebid's  explana- 
tion there. 

R.  Joseph  b.  Minumi  in  the  name  of  R.  Na'hman  said:  A 
sick  person  who  has  bequeathed  all  of  his  estates  to  strangers, 
it  must  be  investigated  how  was  the  case  {i.e.,  if  he  had  divided 
them  at  one  time).  E.g.,  of  my  property  such  and  such  shall 
belong  to  A,  and  such  and  such  to  B,  etc. — as  he  could  not  do 
otherwise  if  he  had  made  up  his  mind  to  divide  his  estates  in 
such  a  manner  as  if  he  were  to  die  of  his  sickness,  so  the  last 
ones  are  not  considered  as  if  he  would  reserve  some  of  his 
estates  for  himself — all  of  them  acquire  title  after  his  death. 
But  in  case  of  cure  he  may  retract  from  all  of  them,  even  from 
the  first,  but  if  he  so  does  after  deliberating  (i.e.,  "  Such  and 
such  shall  be  to  A,"  then  stops,  and  some  time  thereafter  adds: 
"  Such  and  such  to  B,"  etc.),  in  case  he  was  cured  of  this  sick- 
ness he  may  retract  only  from  the  last  one,  as  he  left  nothing 
for  himself — for  it  is  to  be  supposed  that  if  he  knew  he  would 
be  cured  he  would  not  give  away  the  last  of  his  estate  so  that 
he  should  remain  a  beggar — but  not  from  the  previous  one. 


TRACT    BABA   BATHRA    (LAST   GATE).  335 

But  why  should  not  we  suppose,  even  in  the  latter  case,  that 
his  intention  was  concerning  all  of  them,  in  case  he  should  die, 
and  the  dehberation  was  as  to  who  was  more  worthy  to  be  his 
inheritor?  Usually  a  sick  person  who  expects  to  die  makes 
up  his  mind  for  all  his  estates  before  he  mentions  any  name. 

R.  Aha  b.  Minumi  in  the  name  of  R.  Na'hman  said:  If  a 
sick  person  has  bequeathed  all  his  estates  to  strangers,  and 
thereafter  is  cured,  he  cannot  retract,  as  it  may  be  feared,  per- 
haps, he  has  estates  in  another  country.  But  does  not  our 
Mishna  state:  In  case  he  left  nothing  for  himself,  he  may? 
And  according  to  this  theory,  how  can  such  a  case  occur?  Said 
R.  Hama:  It  may  occur,  if  he  said:  All  my  estates,  wherever 
they  may  be  found.  Mar  b.  R.  Ashi  said :  Our  Mishna  means 
to  say :  In  case  it  was  clear  to  the  people  that  he  had  no  estates 
elsewhere. 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question :  Should  a  retraction 
in  part  be  considered  a  retraction  of  all,  or  not  (e.g.,  if  he  first 
bequeaths  all  his  estates  to  A,  and  thereafter  he  bequeaths  a 
part  of  same  to  B,  which,  according  to  the  law,  he  may  do,  the 
question  arises  whether  A  has  still  the  right  to  what  was  be- 
queathed to  him  at  first,  or  the  retraction  of  a  part  annuls  the 
first  entirely)?  Come  and  hear:  "If  one  bequeaths  all  his 
estates  to  A,  and  thereafter  a  part  of  them  to  B,  B  acquires  title, 
but  A  does  not."  Is  it  not  to  be  assumed  that  it  means  in  case 
he  dies?  Nay!  It  means  in  case  he  was  cured.  And  so  it 
seems  to  be  from  the  latter  part  stated  in  the  same  Boraitha : 
"  If  he  wrote,  '  A  part  of  my  estate  shall  belong  to  A  and  all 
the  remainder  to  B,'  the  latter  acquires  title,  but  not  the  first." 
And  this  statement  is  correct  in  case  he  was  cured;  as  then, 
bequeathing  all  the  remainder  to  B,  he  reserved  nothing  for 
himself;  but  if  it  speaks  in  case  he  dies,  why  should  both  of 
them  not  acquire  title?  Said  R.  Yemar  to  R.  Ashi:  The  same 
might  be  said  even  when  he  was  cured.  If  you  decide  that  a 
retraction  in  part  is  considered  a  retraction  to  all,  it  is  correct 
that  title  is  given  to  B,  as  the  first  bequeathing  to  A  is  entirely 
annulled  with  that  which  he  has  separated  from  it  to  B.  But 
if  you  should  decide  that  a  retraction  in  part  does  not  annul 
the  first,  let  this  case  be  considered  as  the  case  of  "  dividing  " 
mentioned  above,  and  title  should  not  be  given  to  any  of  them. 

The  Halakha,  however,  prevails :  "  That  a  retraction  in  part 


336  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

is  considered  entirely."  And  the  first  case  mentioned  in  the 
just  cited  Boraitha  holds  good  for  both,  whether  he  dies  or  is 
cured;  and  the  latter  case  holds  good  only  when  he  was  cured. 

R.  Shesheth  said :  The  expressions,  "  He  shall  take,"  "  shall 
be  rewarded,"  "  shall  make  a  hazakah,"  and  "  shall  acquire  title  " 
are  to  be  considered  a  gift,  from  which  he  has  no  right  to  re- 
tract. A  Boraitha  adds:  "Also  the  expression  'shall  inherit,' 
to  him  who  is  fit  to  be  his  direct  heir."  And  it  is  in  accordance 
with  Johanan  b.  Beroka. 

The  schoolmen  questioned :  How  shall  it  be  done,  if  he  ex- 
presses himself:  A  is  the  one  who  shall  derive  benefit  from  my 
estates?  Does  he  mean  all  of  them  shall  belong  to  him,  or  that 
he  shall  derive  some  benefit  from  them,  but  not  all?  This  re- 
mains undecided.  The  same  propounded  another  question: 
How  is  it  if  he  had  sold  all  his  estates  while  he  was  sick — may 
he  retract  when  cured,  or  not?  And  in  answering  this  ques- 
tion, at  one  time  it  was  said  by  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh : 
He  may  retract;  and  at  another  time  it  was  said  by  the  same  in 
the  name  of  the  same  authority :  He  may  not.  However,  they 
do  not  contradict  each  other,  as  the  first  decision  holds  good  in 
case  the  money  obtained  was  still  in  his  hands,  and  the  second 
applies  in  case  the  seller  had  expended  it  by  paying  his  debts. 

The  schoolmen  propounded  another  question:  If  a  sick  per- 
son has  confessed,  "  I  owe  so  much  to  so  and  so,"  shall  it  be 
taken  for  granted,  and  his  creditors  acquire  title  to  the  cash 
or  estates  left;  or,  probably,  that  he  said  this  for  the  purpose 
that,  should  he  be  cured,  his  children  should  not  think  that  he 
was  rich,  and  therefore  the  man  whom  he  mentioned  in  his  con- 
fession takes  nothing?  Come  and  hear:  Aisur,  the  proselyte, 
had  thirteen  thousand  zuz  with  Rabha.  R.  Mari  was  his  son 
(whose  mother  Rachel,  daughter  of  Samuel,  who  was  in  cap- 
tivity, was  pregnant  with  him  from  the  same  Aisur  when  he  was 
still  a  heathen  before  marriage,  and  although  he  was  born  after 
the  father  had  embraced  Judaism,  according  to  the  law  he  was 
not  considered  his  son  concerning  inheritance,  and  also  must 
not  be  named  after  him,  therefore  Mari  was  named  Mari  b. 
Rachel,  after  his  mother).  Said  Rabha :  I  do  not  see  any  law- 
ful case  which  could  make  R.  Mari  inherit  the  money  deposited 
with  me.  By  inheritance  he  cannot,  as,  according  to  the  law, 
he  is  not  ccnsidcred  an  heir.     Should  his  father  while  sick  make 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  337 

it  a  gift  to  him,  there  is  a  rule  that  he  who  can  be  an  heir  is  fit 
to  receive  the  gift,  but  not  he  who  is  not  fit  to  be  an  heir. 
There  is  also  a  rule  that  to  coins  title  cannot  be  given  by  ex- 
change; and  if  his  father  would  present  him  with  real  estate, 
which  is  lawful,  his  father  does  not  possess  it ;  and  if  by  trans- 
ferring them  from  me  to  him  in  the  presence  of  all  tkree  of  us, 
then  certainly,  if  he  would  send  after  me,  I  would  not  listen. 
Which  R.  Aiqua  b.  R.  Ami  opposed,  saying:  Why,  then,  let 
Aisur  confess  that  the  money  in  question  belongs  to  Mari,  and 
with  his  confession  title  would  be  given  to  him.  While  so  dis- 
cussing, Aisur  got  wind  of  it,  and  confessed.  Rabha  became 
angry,  saying :  They  are  instructing  people  how  to  make  their 
claims  good  and  do  harm  to  me. 

"  Reserving  some  ground  for  himself,''  etc.  But  what  is 
meant  by  this?  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  It 
means  real  estate,  or  ground  by  which  his  livelihood  is  as- 
sured. And  R.  Jeremiah  b.  Abba  maintains:  The  same  is  the 
case  when  he  left  movable  property.  Said  R.  Zera:  See  how 
the  decisions  of  our  elders  correspond.  Why  is  it  said  real 
estate?  Because  it  is  supposed  that  a  sick  person  would  think, 
"  If  I  should  be  cured,  I  shall  get  my  livelihood  from  this 
estate."  The  same  is  the  case  if  he  left  movable  property;  he 
reHes  upon  it.  R.  Joseph,  however,  opposed:  I  do  not  see 
such  a  correspondence  at  all.  He  who  says  "  movable  prop- 
erty "  does  not  correspond  with  our  Mishna,  which  states 
plainly,  "ground"  (real  estate);  and  he  who  said  "to  be  suf- 
ficient for  his  livelihood  "  also  does  not  correspond  with  it, 
which  states  "  some  real  estate,"  which  cannot  be  explained 
that  it  should  suffice  for  a  livelihood.  Said  Abayi  to  him :  Does 
the  Mishna  mean  in  each  case  when  it  mentions  ground,  that 
it  is  not  changeable  for  movable  property?  Did  not  R.  Dimi 
b.  Joseph  say  in  the  name  of  R.  Elazar,  referring  to  a  Mishna  in 
Tract  Gittin,  in  which  also  some  ground  is  mentioned :  Mov- 
able property  is  also  considered  a  remainder  in  that  case? 
There  it  is  different.  It  should  not  state  "  ground  "  at  all; 
but  because  it  begins  with  the  law  of  Peah,  which  applies  to 
ground  no  matter  how  small  it  is,  etc.,  it  uses  the  same  expres- 
sion at  the  end.  But  in  reality  there  is  a  difference  between 
real  estate  and  movable  property.  It  was  also  questioned:  Is 
this  a  rule — that  wherever  the  expression,  a  trifle,  is  mentioned 


33S  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

in  the  Mishna,  it  does  not  mean  a  certain  quantity?  Is  there 
not  a  Mishna  in  ChuHn :  "  If  five  sheep  give  some  wool,  the  law 
of  the  first  shearing  applies  to  it  "  ?  and  to  the  question  :  What 
does  "some  wool"  mean?  said  Rabha:  No  less  than  a  litra 
and  a  half,  etc.  Hence  wc  see  the  expression  "  some  "  means 
a  certain  quantity?  There  also  it  should  not  state  "some 
wool";  but  because  in  the  beginning  it  states:  If  each  sheep 
gives  a  litra  and  a  half,  it  expresses  in  the  latter  case  "  some 
wool,"  as  the  quantity  from  every  five  sheep  is  only  one  litra 
and  a  half. 

It  is  certain  that  if  one  says,  "  I  bequeath  my  movable  prop- 
erty to  so  and  so,"  he  acquires  title  to  all  vessels  or  garments 
w^hich  are  useful,  except  wheat  and  barley.  And  if  he  says, 
"  All  my  movable  property,"  wheat  and  barley  are  also  in- 
cluded; and  even  the  grinder  of  a  handmill,  but  not  the  grind- 
stone. And  if  he  say,  "  All  that  is  movable,"  even  the  latter 
is  included.  But  the  question  arises:  If  among  his  properties 
were  also  bondsmen,  is  title  given  to  them  also,  as  they  are 
also  considered  movable  property;  or  are  slaves  under  the  cate- 
gory of  real  estate  and  title  is  not  given? 

Said  R.  Aha  b.  R.  Ashi  to  R.  Ivia :  Come  and  hear  Mishna 
7  in  Chapter  IV.  of  this  tract,  which  states:  If  he  said,  "  I  sell 
the  town,  with  all  its  contents,"  slaves  are  included.  From 
which  it  is  to  be  inferred  that  slaves  are  considered  movable 
property;  as  if  they  were  considered  real  estate  they  ought  to 
be  included,  even  if  he  did  not  mention  "  with  all  its  contents." 
But  can  you  infer  from  it  that  they  are  considered  movable 
property?  Does  not  the  Mishna  express  itself  "even  bonds- 
men"; and  if  they  should  be  considered  movable  property, 
why  "even"?  We  must  then  say  that  there  is  a  difference 
between  movable  property  which  must  be  carried  and  that 
which  is  self-moving.  The  same  answer  can  also  apply  to  the 
theory  that  slaves  are  considered  real  estate.  (See  previous 
vol.,  p.  59.) 

Rabha  in  the  name  of  R,  Na'hman  said:  In  five  cases  the 
act  of  a  gift  is  not  considered  unless  the  bequeather  writes  "  all 
my  estates,"  and  they  are:  A  sick  person,  his  bondsmen,  his 
wife,  his  children,  and  the  estates  of  a  woman  who  has  be- 
queathed them  to  some  one  for  the  purpose  that  her  future 
husband  should  not  demand  them  at  the  marriage.     "  A  sick 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  339 

person  " — as  our  Mishna  states :  If  he  reserved  nothing  for 
himself,  the  bequeathing  is  not  considered.  "  A  slave  " — as 
there  is  a  Mishna  which  states:  If  one  has  bequeathed  all  of 
his  estates  to  a  slave,  the  latter  becomes  free.  If,  however,  he 
reserved  some  for  himself,  he  does  not.  "'  His  wife  " — as  is 
said  above :  If  one  bequeaths  all  his  estate  to  his  wife,  it  is  con- 
sidered that  he  has  appointed  her  as  a  guardian  only.  "  To 
his  children  " — as  stated  above :  If  one  bequeaths  all  his  estate 
to  his  children,  but  reserves  for  his  wife  some  ground,  she  loses 
the  right  of  her  marriage  contract.  "  And  the  estate  of  a 
woman  who  desires  to  hide  it  from  her  future  husband  " — as 
the  Master  said  elsewhere:  In  such  a  case  she  must  write  all 
her  estates,  as  only  then  she  may  retract  after  her  marriage. 
But  if  she  reserved  something  for  herself,  she  loses  the  right. 
And  in  all  those  cases  where  they  reserved  for  themselves  mov- 
able property,  their  acts  were  invalid,  except  in  the  case  of  a 
marriage  contract,  to  which  the  enactment  of  the  rabbis  was 
made  for  real  estate  only.  Amimar,  however,  maintains:  If 
the  movable  property  in  question  was  mentioned  in  the  mar- 
riage contract,  and  while  bequeathing  all  his  estate  to  his  chil- 
dren he  reserved  it  for  himself,  it  is  considered,  and  his  wife 
does  not  lose  her  right  in  the  marriage  contract. 

If  A  bequeaths  his  estates  to  B,  and  among  them  were 
slaves,  they  are  included,  as  they  are  also  called  estate,  as  said 
above.  Earth  is  considered  estate,  as  there  is  a  Mishna:  Estates 
which  one  can  rely  upon  can  be  acquired  with  money,  with  a  bill 
of  sale,  and  with  hazakah.  Garments  are  also  considered  estate, 
as  the  same  Mishna  adds:  And  to  that  which  cannot  be  relied 
upon,  title  is  given  only  by  drawing.  Coins  are  also  considered 
estate,  from  the  same  Mishna,  which  adds :  Such  estates  which 
cannot  be  relied  upon  may  be  obtained  with  that  which  may  be 
relied  upon.*  [Here  is  repeated  from  Baba  Kama  (p.  236) 
what  happened  to  R.  Papa  when  he  had  to  collect  twelve  thou- 
sand zuz,  as  evidence  that  coins  are  considered  estate.]  Deeds 
are  also  considered  estate.  As  Rabba  b.  Itz'hak  said :  There 
are  two  kinds  of  deeds.  If  one  said  to  witnesses :  "  Give  title 
of  this  field  to  so  and  so  by  a  ceremony  of  a  sudarium,  and 

*  In  the  Talmud,  wherever  it  means  real  estate,  the  expression  is  estates  which 
one  can  rely  upon — which  means  that  if  they  are  mortgaged  for  a  loan  the  lender 
may  rely  upon  them,  as  they  cannot  be  lost  by  fire,  etc. 


340  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

write  him  a  deed,  he  may  retract  as  to  the  deed,"  but  he  cannot 
retract  as  to  the  field  itself,  as  title  was  already  given.  But 
if  he  said:  "  Give  title,"  etc.,  with  the  stipulation,  "  You  shall 
write  him  a  deed  also,"  he  may  retract  from  both.  And  R. 
Hyya  b.  Abbin  in  the  name  of  R.  Huna  said :  There  are  three 
kinds  of  deeds:  the  two  just  mentioned;  and  the  third,  if  the 
seller  hastened  and  wrote  the  deed.  As  is  said  above:  If  the 
seller  desire  to  write  a  bill  of  sale,  he  may  do  so  even  in  the  ab- 
sence of  the  buyer;  as  after  the  buyer  makes  a  hazakah  on  the 
estate,  title  is  given  to  the  deed  wherever  it  may  be  found.  As 
we  have  learned :  Estates  which  cannot  be  reli»d  upon  are  ob- 
tained with  that  which  is  to  be  relied  upon,  etc.  (We  see,  then, 
that  deeds  are  considered  estate.)  Catle  are  also  so  considered, 
as  we  have  learned  (Tract  Shekalim,  Chapter  IV.,  Mishna  g) : 
"  If  one  devote  his  possessions,  and  there  are  among  them  cattle 
fit  for  the  altar,  male  or  female,"  etc.  Fowl  are  also  so  con- 
sidered, as  we  have  learned  [ibid,,  h]  :  "  If  one  devote  his  pos- 
sessions, and  among  them  .  .  .  oils  and  birds,"  etc. 
Tephilin  are  also  so  considered,  as  we  have  learned :  "  If  one  de- 
vote his  estates,  among  which  tephilin  were  found,  they  must 
be  left  for  him." 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question:  How  is  the  case 
with  the  Holy  Scrolls — as  they  must  not  be  sold,  are  they  con- 
sidered estate  or  not?  This  remains  undecided.  The  mother 
of  R.  Zutra  b.  Tubhia  had  transferred  to  Zutra  her  estates  be- 
cause she  was  about  to  marry  R.  Zebid.  However,  after  mar- 
riage, Zebid  divorced  her.  Then  she  came  before  R.  Bibi  b. 
Abayi,  claiming  that  she  retracted  from  her  transfer,  as  she  told 
R.  Zutra  plainly  that  only  for  the  purpose  of  marriage  had  she 
transferred  her  estates  to  him.  But  he  said:  You  transferred 
them  on  account  of  marriage,  and  you  did  marry.  Said  R. 
Huna  b.  R.  Jehoshua :  Because  you  are  weak  you  speak  weak 
words  (see  above,  p.  306).  Even  according  to  him  who  said: 
"  If  she  wishes  to  hide  her  estates  from  her  future  husband, 
title  is  given,"  it  is  only  in  case  she  does  it  without  any  re- 
mark; but  in  this  case  she  said  plainly  to  her  son  that  she  did 
it  because  of  marriage.     But  now  she  is  divorced. 

The  mother  of  Rami  b.  Hama  bequeathed  to  him  her 
estates  on  one  evening,  and  in  the  morning  she  bequeathed 
them  to  her  son  R.  Uqba.     Rami  then  went  to  R.  Shesheth, 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA    (LAST   GATE).  341 

who  turned  over  the  estates  to  him.  And  R.  Uqba  went  to 
R.  Na'hman's  court,  and  he  decided  that  the  estates  belonged 
to  him  (Uqba).  R.  Shesheth  then  went  to  R.  Na'hman  and 
questioned  him:  Why  such  a  decision?  If  it  is  because  she 
retracted  from  the  first,  this  would  hold  good  only  should  she 
be  cured;  but  she  was  dead  from  this  sickness,  and  her  first 
will  ought  to  be  listened  to?  And  he  answered:  So  said  Sam- 
uel :  In  such  a  case  where  a  retraction  holds  good  in  case  of  a 
cure,  it  is  the  same  if  the  retraction  was  made  while  still  sick. 
Rejoined  R.  Shesheth :  Samuel  said  so  in  case  he  has  retracted 
and  reserved  the  estates  for  himself?  But  did  he  say  also  that 
he  might  bequeath  to  another?  And  R.  Na'hman  answered: 
Yea!  Samuel  said  plainly:  One  may  do  so,  whether  for  him- 
self or  for  another. 

The  mother  of  R.  Amram  the  Pious  possessed  a  bundle  of 
deeds,  and  while  dying  she  said:  They  shall  be  given  to  my 
son  Amram.  His  brothers,  however,  came  to  complain  before 
R.  Na'hman,  claiming  that  Amram  had  not  made  any  draw- 
ing on  the  deeds;  consequently  he  had  not  yet  acquired  title 
to  them.  To  which  R.  Na'hman  answered:  The  words  of  a 
dying  person  are  considered  as  if  written  and  delivered. 

The  sister  of  R.  Tubi  b.  Matna  bequeathed  her  estates  to 
him  on  one  morning,  and  in  the  evening  came  R.  Ahadbui,  who 
cried  before  her,  claiming  that  people  would  say:  The  one 
brother  is  a  scholar  and  the  other  not,  and  she  has  bequeathed 
to  him.  When  the  case  came  before  R.  Na'hman,  he  decided 
as  he  said  above  in  Samuel's  name,  that  the  retraction  held 
good.  The  sister  of  R.  Dimi  b.  Joseph  owned  a  part  of  a  vine- 
yard; and  every  time  she  became  sick,  she  used  to  present  it 
to  him,  and  when  cured  to  retract.  At  one  time  she  became 
sick  and  sent  to  him:  Come  and  acquire  title  to  my  estates. 
And  he  answered :  I  do  not  want  them.  She,  however,  sent 
again  to  him:  Come  and  acquire  title  to  them,  so  that,  ac- 
cording to  the  law,  I  shall  not  be  able  to  retract.  He  then, 
went,  reserved  a  part  thereof  for  her,  and  then  the  ceremony 
of  a  sudarium  was  made.  She  again  became  cured,  and  again 
retracted,  and  came  to  R.  Na'hman  requesting  that  he  should 
return  to  her  her  estates.  And  R.  Na'hman  summoned  R. 
Dimi  before  the  court.  But  he  was  not  willing  to  listen,  say- 
ing: To  what  purpose  shall  I  go?     All  that  was  done  was  in 


342  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

accordance  with  the  law.  She  reserved  of  the  estates  for  her- 
self in  case  she  should  be  cured,  etc.  He  then  sent  to  him: 
If  you  will  not  appear  before  the  court,  I  shall  prick  you  so 
that  blood  will  not  run  (i.e.,  put  him  under  the  ban).  Then 
R.  Na'hman  examined  the  witnesses  how  was  the  case.  And 
they  said:  The  woman  said  thus:  "Woe  is  me!  I  am  dying," 
and  then  she  said  her  will.  To  which  R.  Na'hman  gave  his 
decision :  In  such  a  case  it  is  considered  that  she  made  the  will 
because  she  was  afraid  she  would  die;  and  a  will  made  in  the 
fear  of  death  may  be  retracted. 

It  was  taught:  Concerning  a  gift  in  part  of  a  sick  person, 
it  was  said  before  Rabha,  in  the  name  of  Mar  Zutra  the  son 
of  R.  Na'hman,  who  said  in  the  name  of  his  father:  In  one  re- 
spect it  is  equal  to  a  gift  by  one  in  good  health ;  it  means  he 
cannot  retract  if  cured;  and  in  the  other  to  a  will  of  a  sick  per- 
son, as  it  needs  not  the  ceremony  of  a  sudarium.  Said  Rabha 
to  them :  I  told  you  several  times,  "  Do  not  put  a  clay-pot  (see 
Chapter  I.,  p.  14)  on  the  neck  of  R.  Na'hman."  R.  Na'hman 
said  thus :  It  is  considered  a  gift  of  one  in  good  health  and  must 
be  done  with  the  ceremony  of  a  sudarium.  Rabha,  however, 
objected  to  R.  Na'hman  from  our  Mishna,  which  states:  If  he 
reserved  some  ground  for  himself  the  gift  is  valid.  Is  it  not 
to  be  assumed  that  no  sudarium  is  needed  ?  And  he  answered : 
Nay !  It  must  be  done  with  the  ceremony  of  a  sudarium.  But 
does  not  the  latter  part  state:  If  he  reserved  nothing,  title  is 
not  given?  And  if  it  is  as  you  say,  why  should  it  not  be  the 
same  when  made  by  a  sudarium  ?  And  he  answered :  So  said 
Samuel :  If  a  sick  person  has  bequeathed  all  his  estates  to 
strangers,  although  made  with  a  sudarium,  he  may  retract,  be- 
cause it  is  certain  he  made  it  in  the  fear  of  death.  R.  Meshar- 
shia  objected  to  Rabha  from  the  following:  It  happened  with 
the  mother  of  Rukhl's  sons  that  while  sick  she  said  :  My  jewelry 
shall  be  given  to  my  daughter,  and  is  worth  twelve  manas. 
And  she  died;  and  the  sages  listened  to  her  will.  (Hence  we 
see  that,  although  it  was  a  part  of  her  estate,  and  it  was  not 
made  with  the  ceremony  of  a  sudarium,  it  was  nevertheless 
considered.)  The  case  was,  because  she  had  mentioned :  I  am 
certain  I  shall  die,  therefore  I  bequeath  this  to  my  daughter. 
R.  Huna  b.  R.  Jehoshua,  however,  said:  If  the  sick  person  has 
commanded  while  dying,  a  sudarium  is  needed;  and  all  Bo- 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  343 

raithas  cited  treat  when  the  sick  person  has  divided  all  his 
estates  among  different  persons.  And  in  such  a  case  it  is  said 
above  that  the  rabbis  consider  them  as  a  gift  of  a  sick  per- 
son. The  Halakha,  however,  prevails  that  for  a  gift  of  a 
sick  person  in  part  a  siidarium  is  needed,  even  when  he  dies  of 
that  sickness;  but  if  he  commanded  while  dying,  no  sudarium 
is  needed  in  case  he  dies.  But  if  he  was  cured  he  may  retract, 
even  if  it  was  done  with  a  sudarium. 

It  was  taught :  A  gift  of  a  sick  person,  in  which  it  was  writ- 
ten that  it  was  made  with  a  sudarium — it  is  considered  based 
upon  two  sources,  and  must  be  listened  to.  So  declared  the 
school  of  Rabh  in  the  name  of  their  master.  Samuel,  however, 
said :  I  do  not  know  what  should  be  done  in  such  a  case.  The 
reason  of  the  school  of  Rabh  is :  Because  the  will  was  made  on 
two  bases,  it  is  equal  to  both — a  gift  of  one  in  good  health,  from 
which  he  cannot  retract,  and  to  a  gift  of  a  sick  person  who 
said,  "  The  loan  I  have  with  A,  shall  be  given  to  B."  And  the 
reason  of  Samuel,  who  was  doubtful  in  such  a  case,  is:  Per- 
haps the  sick  person  made  up  his  mind  not  to  give  title  without 
a  deed,  and  such  cannot  be  written  after  death. 

However,  there  is  a  contradiction  from  the  following  state- 
ment of  Rabh's,  to  his  one  decision  just  mentioned,  and  the 
same  is  it  with  Samuel — namely:  The  message  which  Rabbin 
sent  in  the  name  of  R.  Abuhu  (above,  pp.  300-1),  in  which  both 
Rabh  and  Samuel  contradict  themselves?  Nay!  There  is  no 
contradiction  at  all.  Rabh  it  does  not  contradict,  because  in 
one  case  he  speaks  where  it  was  made  with  a  ceremony  of  a 
sudarium,  and  in  the  other  where  it  was  not.  And  to  Samuel 
also  there  is  no  contradiction,  as  his  decision  in  the  case  cited 
speaks  when  the  sudarium  was  made  to  strengthen  the  act. 
(This  will  be  explained  farther  on.) 

R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak  was  sitting  behind  Rabha,  and  Rabha 
before  R.  Na'hman,  who  questioned  him:  Did  Samuel  indeed 
say  that  it  is  to  be  feared  the  sick  person  had  perhaps  made  up 
his  mind  to  give  title  by  a  deed  only?  Did  not  R.  Jehudah 
say  in  his  name:  A  sick  person  who  has  bequeathed  all  his 
estates  to  strangers,  although  made  with  a  sudarium,  if  he  was 
cured  he  may  retract?  Because  it  is  known  that  this  bequest 
was  only  because  he  thought  he  would  die.  R.  Na'hman  gest- 
ured, and  Rabha  remained  silent.     After  R.  Na'hman  went  out. 


344  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

questioned  R.  Na'hman  b.  Itz'hak :  Rabha,  what  does  R.  Na'h- 
man  mean  by  his  gesture?  And  he  answered:  He  means  that 
title  is  given  when  the  act  was  strengthened.  And  to  the  ques- 
tion: How  is  it  known  that  the  act  was  strengthened?  Said 
R.  Hisda :  If  it  was  written :  "  In  addition  to  his  gift  the  cere- 
mony of  a  sudarium  was  made." 

It  is  certain  that  if  one  bequeathed  first  to  one,  and  there- 
after to  another,  it  is  as  R.  Dimi  said  above :  The  later  will 
aboHshes  the  first.  But  how  is  it  if  he  wrote  and  gave  title 
with  a  sudarium  to  one,  and  thereafter  he  did  the  same  to  an- 
other? According  to  Rabh:  Title  is  given  to  the  first,  as  in 
his  opinion  it  is  similar  to  a  gift  by  one  who  is  in  good  health. 
But  according  to  Samuel  title  is  given  to  the  second,  as  in  his 
opinion  it  is  similar  to  a  gift  of  a  sick  person,  and  it  is  to  be 
feared  that  he  had  perhaps  made  up  his  mind  to  give  title  only 
by  a  deed.  So  it  was  taught  in  the  city  of  Sura.  In  Pumbe- 
ditha,  however,  it  was  taught  as  follows :  R.  Jeremiah  b.  Abba 
said :  A  message  was  sent  from  the  college  to  Samuel :  Let  the 
master  teach  us — how  is  the  law  if  one  has  bequeathed  his 
estate  to  strangers  with  a  sudarium?  And  his  answer  was: 
After  a  sudarium,  nothing  can  be  done.  The  schoolmen,  how- 
ever, understood  that  Samuel's  decision  was  only  if  it  was  be- 
queathed to  another;  but  if  he  became  cured  and  wished  to 
retract  for  the  sake  of  himself,  he  might  do  so.  Said  R.  Hisda 
to  them :  When  R.  Huna  came  from  Khuphry,  he  explained 
that  Samuel  meant  to  say  it  holds  good  in  any  event  (i.e.,  he 
cannot  retract  even  for  himself).  There  was  one  who  be- 
queathed his  estates  with  a  sudarium  while  he  was  sick,  and 
thereafter  became  cured  and  wanted  to  retract,  and  brought 
up  his  case  in  the  court  of  R.  Huna.  And  R.  Huna  said  to 
him :  "  I  can  do  nothing  for  you,  as  you  acted  not  in  accord- 
ance with  those  who  wish  to  retract  after  cure.  They  usually 
give  title  with  one  of  the  two — a  document  or  a  sudarium. 
You,  however,  have  done  both;  and  such  an  act  can  by  no 
means  be  abolished."  There  was  a  deed  of  gift  in  which  it  was 
written:  While  I  live  and  after  my  death,  Rabh  considered 
this  as  a  will  upon  death,  because  death  was  mentioned.  And 
Samuel  considered  it  as  a  gift  by  one  in  good  health,  because 
while  "  I  live  "  was  mentioned — explaining  that  the  word  death 
is  to  be  interpreted  from  time  everlasting.     Said  Uhla:  The 


I 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  345 

sages  of  Nahardea  decided :  The  Halakha  prevails  with  Rabh. 
Said  Rabha :  If,  however,  it  was  written :  "  While  I  still  live," 
title  is  given.  And  Amimar  said :  The  Halakha  does  not  pre- 
vail with  Rabha.  Said  R.  Ashi  to  him :  Is  this  not  self-evident? 
Have  not  the  Nahardeans  decided :  The  Halakha  prevails  with 
Rabh  ?  (And  he  rejoined :)  One  might  say :  When  "  still  alive." 
Rabh  also  admits :  I  came  to  say  that  it  is  not  so.  There  was 
such  a  case,  which  came  before  R.  Na'hman  in  the  city  of  Na- 
hardea, and  he  sent  the  plaintiff  to  R.  Jeremiah  b.  Abba  in  the 
city  of  Shum-Tamia,  saying:  Nahardea  is  the  city  of  Samuel, 
and  we  cannot  act  against  him,  though  the  Halakha  prevails 
with  Rabh.  There  was  also  such  a  case  which  came  before 
Rabha,  and  he  decided  in  accordance  with  his  own  theory. 
And  the  plaintiff  was  a  woman,  who  troubled  him  very  much, 
saying :  His  decision  was  not  in  accordance  with  the  law.  He 
said  then  to  R.  Papa  b.  R.  Hanon,  who  was  his  scribe :  Write 
her  a  document  that  she  won  the  case;  but  at  the  bottom 
write  a  few  words  from  a  Mishna  in  Middle  Gate:  "  He  may 
hire  other  laborers  or  deceive  them  "  (that  the  court  to  which 
she  shall  bring  my  judgment  will  understand  that  I  do  not 
agree  with  it).  And  she  exclaimed :  I  see  you  desire  to  fool 
me — may  your  ship  sink !  Rabha's  followers  dipped  his  clothes 
in  water,  to  overcome  the  curse  of  the  woman.  However,  they 
did  not  succeed,  as  Rabha  was  punished  for  this. 

MISHNA  VIII. :  If  in  the  deed  it  was  not  mentioned  that 
he  was  sick,  and  he  claims  that  he  was  sick  at  the  time  of  writ- 
ing and  had  a  right  to  retract,  while  the  plaintiff  claims  that 
he  was  in  good  health,  it  is  for  him  to  bring  evidence  that  he 
was  sick.  So  is  the  decree  of  R.  Meir.  The  sages,  however, 
say:  There  is  a  rule  that  it  is  always  for  the  plaintiff  to  bring 
evidence. 

GEM ARA :  There  was  a  deed  of  gift  in  which  it  was  written 
that  it  was  done  while  he  was  sick  in  bed ;  but  it  was  not  men- 
tioned that  he  died  from  that  sickness.  And  Rabha  said:  It 
does  not  matter,  as  in  reality  he  did  die,  and  his  grave  is  evi- 
dence. Said  Abayi  to  him :  But  what  evidence  is  this  that  he 
died  from  that  sickness?  Perhaps  he  was  then  cured,  retracted, 
and  thereafter  died  of  another  sickness  ?  And  that  this  is  to  be 
feared  we  may  infer  from  a  ship  which  sinks,  when  it  is  seldom 
that  the  men  on  board  are  saved.     And,  nevertheless,  we  apply 


346  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

to  such  a  case  both  the  rigorous  law  concerning  Hfe  and  the 
rigorous  law  concerning  death  {i.e.,  the  wives  of  those  who 
were  on  board  are  not  allowed  to  marry,  as  perhaps  their  hus- 
bands are  not  dead,  but  have  drifted  to  the  shore  at  another 
place  and  remain  alive,  and  also  must  not  partake  of  Terumah 
in  case  their  husbands  were  priests,  as  perhaps  they  are  dead). 
So  much  the  more  in  our  case,  in  which  the  majority  of  sick 
persons  become  cured.  Should  we  not  fear  that,  because  it 
was  not  mentioned  in  the  deed  that  he  died  from  that  sickness, 
he  was  cured  ? 

Said  R.  Huna  b.  R.  Jehoshua:  The  decision  of  Rabha  in 
this  case  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Nathan  of  the  following 
Boraitha  (in  such  a  case  as  stated  in  our  Mishna,  it  depends 
on  circumstances):  Who  has  to  collect  from  whom?  If  he, 
the  bequeather,  has  to  take  out  of  their  hands,  he  can  do  so 
without  any  evidence;  but  if  they  have  to  collect  from  him, 
evidence  must  be  brought.  So  is  the  decree  of  R.  Jacob.  R. 
Nathan,  however,  maintains :  If  the  case  comes  on  while  he  is 
in  good  health,  it  is  for  him  to  bring  evidence  that  he  was  sick 
when  the  deed  was  written.  On  the  other  hand,  they  have  to 
bring  evidence  that  he  was  in  good  health,  if  the  case  comes  on 
while  he  is  sick.  (Hence  we  see  that  R.  Nathan's  decision  is 
according  to  the  circumstances  at  the  time  the  case  is  before 
the  court ;  and  the  same  is  Rabha's  theory.) 

"  The  sages,  however,  say,"  etc.  What  kind  of  evidence  is 
required?  According  to  R.  Huna:  Witnesses  shall  testify  that 
he  was  in  good  health  when  the  deed  was  written.  And  accord- 
ing to  R.  Hisda  and  Rabba  b.  R.  Huna :  The  evidence  should 
be  by  approval  of  this  deed  {i.e.,  the  defendant  claims  that  he 
was  then  sick,  and  consequently  the  deed  is  valueless;  but  if 
they  bring  evidence  from  the  court  that  it  was  approved  by  it, 
he  must  not  be  trusted,  as  it  is  to  be  supposed  that  the  court 
would  not  approve  it  if  it  was  not  aware  that  he  was  in  good 
health).  R.  Huna,  who  required  witnesses,  maintains:  R. 
Meir  and  the  sages  differ  as  R.  Jacob  and  R.  Nathan  do.  And 
R.  Hisda  and  Rabba  b.  R.  Huna  maintain:  They  (Meir  and 
the  rabbis)  difTer  as  to  whether  a  deed  which  is  admitted  by  the 
signer  must  be  approved  by  the  court  or  not.  According  to 
R.  Meir,  it  is  not  necessary ;  and  according  to  the  rabbis,  it  is. 

Rabha  is  also  of  the  opinion  that  the  evidence  in  question 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST    GATE).  347 

must  be  witnesses.  Said  Abayi  to  him :  What  is  your  reason  ? 
Shall  we  assume  that  because  all  other  documents  state  it  was 
done  when  he  was  on  his  feet  and  in  good  health,  and  here  it 
is  not  so  mentioned,  it  is  to  be  assumed  that  he  was  then  sick  ? 
Why  not  say  to  the  contrary,  as  in  all  documents  of  a  sick  per- 
son it  is  written :  "  It  was  done  while  he  was  sick  in  bed,"  and 
here  it  is  not  mentioned,  it  is  to  be  assumed  that  he  was  then 
in  good  health  ?  (And  he  answered :)  Since  it  can  be  so  said, 
and  also  the  contrary,  therefore  we  leave  the  money  or  the 
article  in  the  hands  of  its  possessor ;  and  it  is  for  the  plaintiff 
te  bring  evidence. 

The  decision  of  this  question  is  still  in  discussion,  as  R. 
Johanan  and  Resh  Lakish  also  differ.  According  to  the  for- 
mer, witnesses  are  required;  and  according  to  the  latter,  the 
approval  of  the  deed. 

R.  Johanan  objected  to  Resh  Lakish  from  the  following: 
It  happened  in  the  city  of  Bene  Brack  that  one  sold  the  estate 
of  his  father,  and  died;  and  his  relatives  complained  that  he 
was  not  of  age  when  he  died.  And  they  came  and  questioned 
R.  Aqiba  whether  they  had  a  right  to  examine  the  corpse. 
And  his  answer  was :  First,  you  are  not  allowed  to  disgrace  the 
dead;  and  secondly,  the  signs  of  maturity  are  subject  to  change 
after  death.  Now,  according  to  my  theory  that  witnesses  are 
required,  it  is  correct:  as  the  buyers  required  evidence  from 
the  relatives,  which  they  could  not  give,  they  asked  for  per- 
mission to  examine  the  corpse.  But  according  to  your  theory 
that  the  evidence  should  be  by  approval  of  the  deed,  let  them, 
then,  approve  the  documents,  and  hold  the  goods  without  any 
examination?  And  Resh  Lakish  answered:  Do  you  think 
that  his  estates  were  still  in  the  possession  of  his  relatives,  and 
the  buyers  were  the  plaintiffs?  On  the  contrary,  the  estates 
were  in  the  hands  of  the  buyers;  and  the  relatives  were  the 
plaintiffs.  (Says  the  Gemara:)  It  seems  to  be  so,  as  his  rela- 
tives kept  silence  when  Aqiba  told  them  they  were  not  allowed 
to  examine ;  and  if  the  buyers  were  the  plaintiffs,  they  would 
certainly  claim:  We  gave  him  money — let  him  be  disgraced 
and  disgraced.  However,  this  cannot  be  taken  as  a  support, 
as  it  can  be  said  that  therefore  R.  Aqiba  said  to  them :  "  And 
secondly,  signs  of  maturity  are  subject  to  change,"  because  of 
their  claim :  Let  him  be  disgraced. 


348  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

(It  was  taught:)  Resh  Lakish  questioned  R.  Johanan: 
There  is  a  Mishna  among  the  Mishnayoth  of  Bar  Kapara :  If 
one  worked  up  a  field  and  consumed  the  products  as  if  he  were 
the  owner  of  it,  and  then  one  came  and  claimed,  "  It  is  mine," 
but  the  occupant  showed  him  a  document,  whether  bill  of  sale 
or  deed  of  gift,  and  the  plaintiff  said,  "  I  do  not  recognize  such 
a  document  at  all,"  the  signatures  which  are  on  the  document 
must  be  approved  by  the  court  (i.e.,  it  is  sufficient  that  the  wit- 
nesses should  testify  before  the  court  that  they  recognize  their 
signatures,  but  it  is  not  necessary  that  they  should  testify  that 
the  sale  or  gift  was  made  in  their  presence).  If,  however,  the 
plaintiff  claims :  "  I  recognize  this  deed,  but  it  was  written  only 
upon  your  request  for  a  special  purpose ;  but  I  never  sold  " ; 
or,  "  I  sold  to  you  and  never  tocdc  any  money,"  if  the  plaintiff 
brings  evidence,  then  it  must  be  done  accordingly;  but  if  there 
is  no  evidence,  the  deed  is  in  force.  Shall  we  assume  that  it 
is  according  to  R.  Meir,  who  said :  "  If  one  recognizes  his 
document,  the  approval  of  it  is  not  necessary,"  and  not  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  rabbis?  And  R.  Johanan  answered:  Nay! 
I  say  that  all  agree  such  a  document  does  not  need  any  ap- 
proval. Said  Resh  Lakish  again:  But  there  is  a  Mishna  that 
they  do  differ.  And  he  answered :  That  Mishna  treats  that  the 
witnesses  themselves  impair  the  deed  {i.e.,  they  testified  that 
they  signed  it  illegally).  But  can  he,  the  giver  of  the  docu- 
ment, be  supposed  to  impair  it?  Rejoined  Resh  Lakish:  But 
in  your  name  it  was  said  that  you  would  approve  the  claim  of 
the  relatives  who  asked  permission  for  the  examination  (cited 
above),  as  it  seemed  to  you  they  were  right.  To  which  R.  Jo- 
hanan rejoined :  This  was  said  by  Elazar,  but  /  never  said  such 
a  thing.  Said  R.  Zera:  If  R.  Johanan  denies  what  was  said 
by  Elazar  his  disciple,  will  he  also  deny  what  was  said  by  R. 
Janai  his  master?  The  same  said  in  the  name  of  Rabbi:  If 
one  admits  that  he  wrote  this  document,  it  must  nevertheless 
be  approved.  To  which  R.  Johanan  said,  answering  him : 
Rabbi,  is  this  not  the  same  as  our  Mishna  states?  The  sages, 
however,  say:  It  is  for  the  plaintiff  to  bring  evidence.  And 
there  is  no  other  evidence  but  the  approval  of  the  document. 
And  therefore  (adds  R.  Zera),  it  seems  that  our  master  Joseph 
is  right  when  he  states  in  the  name  of  R.  Jehudah,  quoting 
Samuel,  that  the  rabbis  said  approval  is  not  needed  to  a  docu- 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  349 

ment  which  is  admitted  by  the  signer.  And  he  who  holds  that 
he  still  needs  an  approval  is  R.  Meir.  Also,  by  the  expression  of 
R.  Johanan,  "  All  agree,"  is  meant  the  rabbis,  as  R.  Meir  was 
only  a  single  individual  who  so  holds.  But  does  not  the 
Mishna  state  the  reverse?  And  also  the  Boraitha,  does  it  not 
state  in  the  name  of  the  sages  that  it  must  be  approved  ?  Re- 
verse the  names  in  the  Mishna,  as  well  as  in  the  Boraitha. 
But  was  it  not  stated  above  that  R.  Johanan  is  the  one  who  re- 
quires that  the  evidence  mentioned  in  the  Mishna  should  be 
witnesses?  This  statement  is  also  to  be  reversed  (i.e.,  R.  Jo- 
hanan said:  The  evidence  should  be  with  the  approval  of  the 
deed).  Then  the  objection  must  be  reversed  also — not  that 
R.  Johanan  objected  to  Resh  Lakish,  but  the  reverse?  Nay! 
So  said  R.  Johanan  to  Resh  Lakish :  According  to  my  theory 
that  I  require  the  evidence  should  be  by  the  approval  of  the 
deed,  it  is  correct  that  the  buyers  took  possession  of  the  estate 
which  was  sold  to  them  by  the  alleged  minor.  But  accord- 
ing to  your  theory,  how  can  there  be  such  a  case — that  the 
buyers  should  possess  the  estate  ?  Where  could  they  find  wit- 
nesses who  should  testify  that  he  was  of  age  ?  And  Resh  La- 
kish answered  him :  I  admit  to  you  that  the  claim  of  the  rela- 
tives ought  not  to  be  taken  into  consideration;  for  what  was 
their  claim  as  against  the  deed  in  which  witnesses  signed  that 
"  he  was  of  age  "  ?  And  there  is  a  rule  that  witnesses  have  the 
preference;  as  it  is  assumed  that  witnesses  would  not  testify 
unless  they  were  aware  of  the  case.  Hence  concerning  this 
deed  they  would  not  sign  it  if  they  were  not  aware  that  he  was 
of  age. 

It  was  taught :  What  must  be  the  age  of  one  who  has  the 
right  to  sell  the  estates  left  him  by  his  father  ?  Rabha  in  the 
name  of  R.  Na'hman  said :  Eighteen.  And  R.  Huna  b.  Hinna 
in  the  name  of  the  same  authority  said:  Twenty.  R.  Zera 
objected  from  the  above  case  which  happened  in  the  city  of 
Bene  Brack,  to  whom  R.  Aqiba  said:  The  signs  of  maturity 
are  subject  to  change  after  death.  And  this  can  be  correct  in 
him  who  said  eighteen,  as  then  his  relatives  questioned  the 
law  if  the  corpse  might  be  examined.  But  according  to  him 
who  said  twenty,  of  what  use  could  the  examination  be?  At 
that  time  the  signs  of  maturity  are  already  unrecognizable,  as 
we  have  learned  in  a  Mishna :  If  one  gets  to  the  age  of  twenty, 


350  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

and  the  signs  of  maturity  are  not  visible,  they  have  to  bring 
evidence  that  he  has  reached  the  age  of  twenty;  and  he,  the 
castrate,  is  a  legal  "  saris,"  who  does  not  perform  the  ceremony 
of  Halitzah  and  also  cannot  marry  his  brother's  wife.  Hence 
we  see  that  after  twenty  the  symptoms  of  maturity  are  already 
unrecognizable.  The  answer  was:  Was  it  not  taught  in  addi- 
tion to  the  Mishna  by  R.  Samuel  b.  R.  Itz'hak  in  the  name 
of  Rabh :  Provided  the  symptoms  of  a  "  saris  "  were  visible. 
Said  Rabha:  It  seems  that  this  explanation  is  right,  as  the 
Mishna  states:  "  He,  the  castrate,  ...  *  saris,'  "  from  which 
it  is  to  be  understood  that  such  signs  were  visible  on  the  body ; 
as  if  not,  why  should  he  be  named  "  castrate  "?  But  how  is 
it  if  neither  the  signs  of  maturity  nor  of  a  "  saris  "  were  vis- 
ible? How  many  years  are  needed,  that  he  should  be  consid- 
ered of  age?  Taught  R.  Hyya:  After  he  reaches  the  majority 
of  life  (i.e.,  thirty-six  years,  as  life  is  considered  seventy).  It 
happened  that  such  cases  were  brought  before  R.  Hyya  by  the 
mothers,  questioning  him :  What  must  be  done,  that  the  signs 
of  age  should  appear?  And  he  used  to  answer:  If  the  lad  was 
thin,  see  he  should  become  fat ;  and  if  he  was  fat,  he  would 
advise  that  they  should  make  him  thin,  as  sometimes  the  signs 
came  earlier  because  of  thinness,  and  sometimes  because  of 
fatness. 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question:  How  is  he  to  be 
considered  during  the  nineteenth  year — nineteen,  which  is  still 
not  of  age,  or  twenty?  Rabha  in  the  name  of  R.  Na'hman 
said:  The  whole  twentieth  year,  is  he  considered  nineteen? 
And  Rabba  b.  R.  Shila  in  the  name  of  the  same  authority  said : 
As  twenty.  The  statement  of  Rabha,  however,  was  not  heard 
from  him  plainly;  but  it  was  so  judged  from  the  following  act: 
There  was  a  lad  who  was  between  nineteen  and  twenty,  who 
used  to  sell  his  father's  estate,  and  Rabha  had  annulled  all  his 
acts.  People  who  saw  this  thought  that  it  was  because  he  con- 
sidered him  not  of  age.  In  reality,  however,  Rabha  did  so  be- 
cause signs  of  foolishness  were  seen  in  him,  as  he  used  to  free 
all  his  slaves.* 

Giddle  b.  Menarshia  sent  a  message  to  Rabha :  Let  the  mas- 


♦  At  that  time  it  was  prohibited  to  free  a  bondsman  without  a  good  reason,  ac- 
cording to  Roman  and  Persian,  as  well  as  to  Jewish  laws. 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA    (LAST   GATE).  351 

ter  teach  us !  How  should  a  girl  of  fourteen  years  and  one  day 
who  has  a  knowledge  of  business  be  considered?  And  he  an- 
swered: If  she  has  a  knowledge  of  business,  then  her  sale  is 
valid,  but  not  otherwise.  Why  was  the  question  for  a  female 
and  not  for  a  male  child?     Because  so  was  the  case. 

There  was  one  lad,  less  than  twenty,  who  had  sold  the  estate 
of  his  father,  and  his  relatives  instructed  him  that  when  he 
should  be  at  the  court  of  Rabha  he  should  eat  dates  and  throw 
the  pits  at  Rabha's  person  (for  the  purpose  that  Rabha  should 
see  he  was  a  fool,  and  so  annul  his  sales).  He  did  so,  and 
Rabha  did  indeed  annul  the  sales.  When  the  judgment  was 
written,  the  buyers  instructed  him  to  go  into  court  and  say: 
The  Book  of  Esther  can  be  bought  for  one  zuz,  and  the  same 
is  the  price  for  Rabha's  judgment.  And  he  did  so.  Rabha 
then  decided:  His  sales  are  valid.  And  when  his  relatives 
told  him  he  was  so  instructed  by  the  buyers,  Rabha  answered : 
He  understands  business  if  it  is  explained  to  him,  and  in  such 
a  case  his  acts  are  valid;  and  his  previous  act,  that  he  threw 
the  pits  at  me,  was  because  he  is  too  much  of  a  scamp. 

Said  R.  Huna  b.  R.  Jehoshua:  Concerning  witnesses — his 
testimony  may  be  considered  at  such  an  age  (between  nine- 
teen and  twenty).  Said  Mar  Zutra :  But  only  concerning  mov- 
able property,  and  not  real  estate.  Said  R.  Ashi  to  him :  What 
is  the  reason  that  he  is  fit  to  be  a  witness  for  movable  property 
— because  his  sales  are  valid?  If  so,  let  children  of  six  and 
seven  years  be  fit  for  this,  as  there  is  a  Mishna :  The  purchase 
or  sale  of  movable  property  by  minors  is  valid.  And  he  an- 
swered: Witnesses  must  be  men,  as  it  is  writen  [Deut.  xix. 
17] :  "  Then  shall  both  the  men  who  have  the  controversy  stand 
before  the  Lord,"  etc.,  which  cannot  be  applied  to  children. 

Said  Amimar:  If  a  lad  of  thirteen  years  and  one  day  pre- 
sented a  gift  to  some  one,  his  act  is  valid.  Said  R.  Ashi  to  him : 
Why?  Even  concerning  a  sale  where  he  should  receive  money, 
the  rabbis  enacted  that  it  should  be  annulled,  because  he  might 
sell  too  low.  Shall  we  say,  if  he  presents  a  thing  without  any 
money  his  act  is  valid?  (Said  Amimar  to  him:)  And  accord- 
ing to  your  theory,  if  such  a  lad  bought  a  thing  which  is  worth 
six  zuz  for  five,  should  this  be  considered?  This  is  certainly 
not  so,  because  there  is  no  difference  whether  it  was  worth  more 
or  less,  as  the  rabbis  annulled  all  sales  made  by  such  a  lad  who 


352  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

does  not  understand  business.  And  the  reason  is  that  the 
rabbis  were  aware  that  lads  at  such  an  age  have  an  incHnation 
for  money ;  and  if  you  should  allow  one  to  sell,  he  would  sell 
all  the  estates  of  his  father  for  a  small  amount.  But  concern- 
ing a  gift  it  is  different,  as  if  he  would  not  have  any  benefit 
from  it,  he  would  not  do  so;  and  therefore  the  rabbis  enacted 
that  his  gift  should  be  considered,  so  that  others  should  also 
please  him.  R.  Na'hman  in  the  name  of  Samuel  said :  A  young 
man  before  twenty  may  be  examined  for  the  signs  of  maturity 
concerning  betrothals,  divorces,  the  ceremony  of  Halitzah,  and 
protesting  against  marriage,  and  as  to  selling  the  estates  left 
him  by  his  father.  The  Halakha,  however,  prevails,  that  be- 
tween nineteen  and  twenty  he  is  considered  as  before  nine- 
teen ;  and  it  prevails  also  in  accordance  with  Giddle  b.  Menar- 
shia,  with  Mar  Zutra,  and  also  with  Amimar,  and  with  all  the 
laws  which  are  stated  by  R.  Na'hman  in  the  name  of  Samuel. 

MISHNA  IX. :  If  one  divides  his  estates  verbally,  no  mat- 
ter if  he  was  in  good  health  or  dangerously  sick,  according  to 
R.  Elazar  to  real  estate  title  is  given  by  money,  by  a  deed,  and 
by  a  hazakah ;  and  to  movable  property,  title  is  given  by  draw- 
ing only.  He  was  then  told  that  it  happened  with  the  mother 
of  the  sons  of  Rukhl,  who  was  sick  and  said :  Give  my  jewelry, 
which  is  worth  twelve  manas,  to  my  daughter,  that  the  sages 
had  Hstened  thereto.  And  he  answered :  The  sons  of  Rukhl 
ought  to  have  been  buried  by  their  mother  while  they  were  still 
young  {i.e.,  they  had  bad  habits,  and  therefore  the  sages  lined 
them,  that  they  should  not  inherit  from  their  mother). 

GEMARA:  There  is  a  Boraitha:  R.  Eliezer  said  to  the 
sages:  It  happened  with  an  inhabitant  of  the  city  of  Mruni, 
who  was  in  Jerusalem,  that  he  possessed  much  movable  prop- 
erty which  he  desired  to  present  to  different  persons;  and  he 
was  told  that  he  could  not  give  them  title,  unless  he  did  so  to- 
gether with  some  real  estate.  He  went  then  and  bought  a 
rock  near  Jerusalem,  and  said :  The  north  side  of  the  rock  shall 
belong  to  A,  and  with  it  one  hundred  sheep  and  one  hundred 
barrels;  and  the  south  to  B,  and  with  it  one  hundred  sheep 
and  one  hundred  barrels.  And  when  he  was  dead,  the  sages 
approved  his  will.  Hence  we  see  that,  though  the  rock  could 
not  be  considered  real  estate,  as  it  could  not  be  used  for  any- 
thing, nevertheless  title  was  given.     And  he  was  answered: 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA    (LAST   GATE).  353 

This  is  no  support,  as  the  Mrunian  was  in  good  health  when 
he  did  so ;  but  this  cannot  be  done  by  a  sick  person, 

R.  Levi  said :  It  is  allowed  to  make  the  ceremony  of  a  su- 
darium  with  a  sick  person  even  on  Sabbath,  lest  he  become 
exhausted ;  but  not  because  the  Halakha  is  in  accordance  with 
R.  Eliezer  of  the  following  Mishna, 

MISHNA  X.:  R.  Eliezer  said:  If  it  happens  that  a  sick 
person  divides  his  estates  verbally  on  Sabbath,  it  may  be  list- 
ened to,  because  it  is  prohibited  to  write ;  but  not  on  week  days. 
R.  Jehoshua,  however,  maintains:  It  was  said  on  Sabbath,  a 
fortiori  when  it  happened  on  week  days.  Similar  to  this  is: 
One  may  acquire  title  for  a  minor,  but  not  for  adults.  So  is 
the  decree  of  R.  Eliezer.  R.  Jehoshua  said :  For  a  minor,  and 
a  fortiori  for  an  adult. 

GEMARA :  Our  Mishna  is  in  accordance  with  R.  Jehudah, 
as  we  have  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha:  R.  Meir  said: 
The  reverse  is  the  case.  If  this  happened  on  week  days,  his 
words  must  be  listened  to,  because  he  is  allowed  to  write;  but 
not  on  Sabbath,  because  he  is  not  allowed  to  write.  So  is  the 
decree  of  R.  Eliezer.  R.  Jehoshua  said,  on  the  contrary:  It 
was  said  on  week  days,  and  so  much  the  more  on  Sabbath.  R. 
Jehudah,  however,  said :  R.  Eliezer's  decree  was,  if  on  Sab- 
bath, his  words  must  be  listened  to,  because  he  is  not  allowed 
to  write;  but  not  on  week  days,  when  he  is  allowed  to  write. 
And  R.  Jehoshua's  decree  was  to  the  contrary.  And  the  same 
is  the  case  as  to  the  latter  part  of  the  Mishna. 

MISHNA  XL  :  Suppose  a  house  falls  upon  A  and  his  father, 
or  on  any  persons,  that  one  of  them  has  to  be  bequeather  and 
the  other  inheritor,  and  it  is  not  known  who  dies  first,  and  to 
the  estate  there  is  a  claim  from  the  widow  for  her  marriage  con- 
tract, and  from  other  creditors.  The  heirs  of  the  father  say 
that  the  son  died  first;  and  the  creditors  say  that  the  father  died 
first,  and  the  son  afterward.  {I.e.,  the  creditors  of  the  son  who 
had  a  right  to  the  estate  only  if  he  died  after  his  father,  so  that 
with  the  death  of  his  father  the  inheritance  came  to  him.  But 
if  he  was  dead  before  his  father,  he  has  nothing  in  the  estate. 
And  this  is  what  his  brothers  claim,  that  the  creditors  have  no 
right  in  the  estate  left  by  their  father.  Concerning  a  marriage 
contract,  that  will  be  explained  in  the  Gemara.)  According 
to  the  school  of  Shamai,  they  have  to  divide ;  and  according  to 


354  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

the  school  of  Hillel,  the  estate  must  be  left  in  the  hands  of  the 
present  occupants.* 

If  it  happened  that  the  house  fell  on  him  and  his  wife,  the 
heirs  of  the  husband  claim  that  the  woman  dies  first,  conse- 
quently her  husband  has  inherited  from  her;  and  the  heirs  of 
his  wife  claim  that  he  died  first,  consequently  they  have  a  right 
to  her  marriage  contract  and  also  to  her  own  estate.  They 
have  to  divide,  according  to  the  school  of  Shamai.  But  the 
school  of  Hillel  say:  They  must  leave  the  estate  in  the  hands 
of  its  present  occupant.  And  the  occupants  are  to  be  con- 
sidered as  follows :  The  estates  belonging  to  the  marriage  con- 
tract are  to  be  considered  as  in  the  hands  of  the  husband's  heirs. 
But  her  own  estates,  which  she  brought  with  her  to  her  hus- 
band, and  which  ought  to  go  out  with  her  by  death  or  divorce, 
are  to  be  considered  in  the  hands  of  the  heirs  of  her  father. 

If,  however,  the  house  falls  on  one  and  his  mother,  both 
schools  agree  that  it  must  be  divided.  R.  Aqiba,  however,  said : 
I  hold  that  they  (the  schools)  differ  in  the  latter  case  also;  and 
the  school  of  Hillel  are  still  of  the  opinion  that  estates  must  be 
left  in  the  hands  of  the  occupants.  Said  Ben  Azai  to  him :  We 
deplore  that  the  schools  differ  in  the  former  cases,  and  you 
come  to  add  the  third  one,  in  which  the  rabbis  testify  that  they 
have  agreed. 

GEMARA:  The  estates  which  were  brought  by  the  de- 
ceased woman,  mentioned  in  the  Mishna — to  her  husband  for 
usage  of  fruit  only,  according  to  the  school  of  Beth  Hillel. 
Who  is  to  be  considered  the  occupant?  According  to  R.  Jo- 
hanan :  The  heirs  of  the  husband.  According  to  R.  Elazar : 
The  heirs  of  the  woman.  R.  Simeon  b.  Lakish,  however,  said 
in  the  name  of  Bar  Kapara :  Such  must  be  divided.  And  the 
reason  of  this  statement  was  taught  by  Bar  Kapara  himself, 
that  as  the  claims  of  both  parties  are  equal  (i.e.,  the  heirs  of  the 
husband  claim  that  all  the  products  of  this  estate  belonged  to 
the  deceased,  as  he  had  a  right  to  sell  them,  and  therefore  they 
belong  to  his  heirs;  and  the  opponents  claim  that  they  were 
only  to  be  used  while  he  was  alive,  and  therefore  what  was  not 

•  The  Gcmara  to  this  Mishna  we  transfer  to  Mishna  8  of  the  succeeding  chapter, 
as  the  proper  place.  Wc  also  deemed  it  necessary  to  put  all  three  Mishnas  which 
treat  of  falling  houses  together,  though  in  the  original  text  they  are  in  tlirce  separate 
places. 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST    GATE).  355 

consumed  by  him,  if  his  wife  were  alive  she  would  certainly  take 
with  her  estate ;  hence  it  belonged  to  her,  and  after  her  death 
to  us),  it  is  to  be  considered  doubtful  money,  the  law  of  which 
is  division. 

"  R.  Aqiha  said  .  .  .  in  the  hands  of  the  occupants ^  But 
who  arc  considered  their  occupants?  R.  Aila  said:  The  heirs 
of  the  mother;  and  R.  Zera:  The  heirs  of  the  son.  When  R. 
Zera  ascended  to  Palestine,  he  retracted  from  his  statement 
in  Babylon  and  accepted  the  system  of  R.  Aila.  Rabba,  how- 
ever, retained  the  system  of  R.  Zera  as  a  Halakha.  Said  R. 
Zera:  From  my  retraction,  I  see  that  the  air  of  the  land  of 
Israel  makes  one  wise ;  as  after  I  came  here  I  saw  that  my 
statement  while  I  was  still  in  Babylon  was  erroneous.* 

"  Said  Ben  Azai  to  him"  etc.  Said  R.  Simlai :  Infer  from 
this  that  Ben  Azai  was  an  associate  disciple  of  R.  Aqiba;  as 
if  he  were  a  disciple  only,  he  would  have  said  to  him,  "  The 
master  said,"  and  not,  "  And  you  (thou)." 

A  message  was  sent  from  Palestine  as  follows :  If  a  son  has 
sold  his  share  of  the  inheritance  of  his  father  to  some  one,  and 
dies  while  the  father  was  still  alive,  and  thereafter  his  father 
died,  the  son  of  the  seller  has  a  right  to  take  away  the  goods 
from  the  buyer.  (Because,  at  the  time  sold,  the  seller  has  noth- 
ing as  yet  in  his  hands,  and  the  sale  was  for  that  which  would 
be  his  in  the  future ;  and  as  the  son  died  before  his  father  the 
goods  were  never  his,  and  his  son  is  now  the  heir  of  his  grand- 
father, to  whom  the  goods  in  question  belong;  hence  he  has  a 
right  to  take  them  away.)  And  this  is  a  complicated  case  in 
the  law  of  money  matters.  But  let  the  buyers  say :  Your  father 
has  sold,  and  you  are  taking  away?  What  a  claim  is  this! 
Cannot  the  plaintiff  say:  My  basis  is  my  grandfather,  from 
whom  I  inherit  (and  my  father  had  not  any  right  to  sell  this — 
r.s  explained  above) ;  and  that  such  a  claim  is  to  be  considered 
may  be  supported  by  [Ps.  xlv.  17]:  "Instead  of  thy  fathers 
shall  be  thy  children :  thou  shalt  appoint  them  as  princes  in  all 
the  land."     Hence  it  is  not  at  all  a  complicated  case  in  money 


*  The  commentators  differ  concerning  the  explanation  of  this,  as  well  as  con- 
cerning the  completion  of  the  text.  Rashbam  affirms  that  Rabba  was  not  in  the 
text  at  all.  Gershom  changes  the  question  concerning  the  cases  in  the  Mishna  and 
e.'^plains  them  differently.  We  have  done  what  we  could  to  make  the  passage  intel- 
ligible to  the  reader. 


3S6  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

matters.  And  if  such  there  be,  it  would  be  the  following:  A 
first-born  who  sold  the  share  prescribed  to  him  while  his  father 
was  still  alive,  and  died  before  his  father,  the  first-born's  son 
has  a  right  to  take  away  from  the  buyers  after  the  death  of  his 
grandfather.  Hence  his  father  sold  that  to  which  he  was  en- 
titled ;  and  his  son,  whose  basis  is  his  deceased  father,  takes  the 
goods  away.  And  this  is  complicated,  as  he  cannot  say,  "  My 
basis  is  my  grandfather,"  for  the  grandfather  had  nothing  to 
do  with  the  double  share  of  the  first-born  son.  But  even  this 
cannot  be  called  a  complicated  case,  as  he  may  claim,  "  My 
basis  is  my  grandfather,  and  not  my  father,  who  has  never  pos- 
sessed the  goods  he  sold ;  for  now  only  do  I  take  the  place  of 
my  father,  who  was  a  first-born,  and  take  his  share."  Hence 
it  is  in  accordance  with  the  usual  law.  Therefore,  if  in  the  mes- 
sage of  Palestine  was  said  "  a  complicated  case,"  it  might  be 
the  following:  If  one  sign  a  document  before  he  robbed  some 
one,  and  thereafter  he  became  a  robber,  who  is  no  longer  com- 
petent to  be  a  witness,  he  has  no  right  to  testify  to  his  hand- 
writing; but  others,  who  know  his  handwriting,  may.  Hence 
he  is  not  trusted,  and  the  others  who  came  upon  his  basis  are 
trusted.  Is  this  not  complicated?  But  perhaps  it  treats  of 
when  his  handwriting  was  already  approved  by  the  court,  while 
he  was  still  righteous?  Therefore  it  is  to  be  assumed  that  they 
meant  the  following  case:  If  one  signed  a  document  as  a  wit- 
ness to  a  stranger,  and  thereafter  he  became  his  son-in-law,  he 
has  no  right  to  testify  to  his  signature ;  but  others  may  testify 
that  they  recognize  the  writing  of  the  son-in-law,  and  then  it 
may  be  relied  upon.  Hence  he  is  not  trusted,  and  others  are. 
And  you  cannot  say  that  it  means  only  when  his  handwriting 
was  already  approved  by  the  court  at  that  time,  as  R.  Joseph 
b.  Minumi  in  the  name  of  R.  Na'hman  said  plainly:  Even  in 
case  it  was  not.  However,  even  this  cannot  be  called  compli- 
cated, as  it  may  be  said  that  it  is  thus  decreed  by  the  law.  A 
son-in-law  must  not  witness  in  a  case  of  his  father-in-law,  not 
because  it  is  feared  he  may  lie,  but  because  it  is  prohibited, 
even  if  the  son-in-law  were  Moses  our  master.  Therefore  we 
must  come  to  the  conclusion  that  the  complication  lies  in  the 
first  case  mentioned  in  the  message,  and  the  objection  based 
on  the  cited  verse  is  not  to  be  taken  into  consideration,  as  the 
verse  speaks  of  a  "  blessing."     But  how  can  you  say  that  it 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  357 

speaks  of  a  blessing,  and  nothing  is  to  be  inferred  from  it? 
Does  not  our  Mishna  state :  "  If  the  house  falls  upon  him  and 
his  son,  or  any  persons,"  etc.  ?  Does  it  not  mean,  by  the  "  heirs 
of  the  father,"  grandsons,  and  "  any  persons,"  brothers  of  the 
deceased?  Now,  if  you  bear  in  mind  that  one  cannot  say,  "  I 
come  on  the  basis  of  my  grandfather,"  as  the  cited  verse  can- 
not serve  as  a  support,  then,  even  when  the  son  dies  first,  how 
is  it?  Let  the  creditors  say:  We  claim  the  inheritance  of  the 
father?  Nay!  By  "  the  heirs  of  the  father  "  is  meant  the  de- 
ceased's brothers ;  and  by  "  any  persons,"  his  uncles,  brothers 
of  his  father. 

"  One  and  his  mother''  etc.  R.  Shesheth  was  questioned : 
Nay!  A  son  inherits  from  his  mother  when  he  is  already  in 
the  grave,  so  that  his  brothers  from  his  father's  side  should 
inherit  from  him?  (The  illustration  may  be  found  above,  p. 
317.)  Answered  R.  Shesheth:  This  we  have  learned  in  the 
following  Boraitha:  If  the  father  was  taken  into  captivity  and 
died  there,  and  at  the  same  time  his  son  dies  in  his  country,  or 
vice  versa,  and  it  was  not  known  who  died  first,  the  heirs  of  the 
father  and  the  heirs  of  the  son  (on  his  mother's  side)  may  divide 
among  themselves  the  inheritance.  Now,  if  the  son  while  in 
the  grave  could  inherit  from  his  mother,  even  if  he  dies  first, 
let  him  inherit  from  his  grandfather  on  his  mother's  side,  and 
then  his  brothers  on  the  father's  side  would  inherit  from  him. 
Infer  from  this  that  while  in  the  grave  nothing  is  to  be  inher- 
ited. Said  R.  Aha  b.  Minumi  to  Abayi :  This  may  be  inferred 
also  from  our  Mishna,  which  states  that  concerning  one  and 
his  mother  all  agree  that  they  must  divide.  And  if  the  law  of 
inheriting  in  the  grave  were  in  force,  let  him  inherit  from  his 
mother  while  in  the  grave,  the  same  to  revert  to  his  brothers 
on  the  father's  side.  Hence  such  a  law  does  not  hold  good. 
And  why  not?  Said  Abayi:  There  is  the  same  expression  in 
the  Scripture  concerning  the  inheritance  of  a  husband  from  his 
wife,  and  a  son  from  his  mother.  As  the  first  does  not  inherit 
while  in  the  grave,  so  it  is  with  the  second,  etc.  (This  has  al- 
ready been  explained  in  Chapter  VIII.,  p.  254.)  (Here  is  re- 
peated the  whole  story  of  Bar  Sisin's  estate,  preceding  volume, 
pp.  86-87^) 


CHAPTER    X. 

HOW  DEEDS  SHOULD  BE  WRITTEN  AND  WHERE  THE  WITNESSES  SHOULD 
SIGN.  CONCERNING  ERASURES  OF  SOME  WORDS  IN  DEEDS.  IN 
WHICH  CASES  BOTH  PARTIES  MUST  BE  PRESENT  AT  THE  WRIT- 
ING OF  THE  DEEDS,  AND  IN  WHICH  ONE  OF  THEM  SUFFICES. 
CONCERNING  A  DEPOSITED  DEED  WHICH  WAS  PAID  IN  PART. 
HOW  SHALL  THE  COURT  APPROVE  AN  ERASED  DOCUMENT  ? 
PROPERTY  FOR  PRIVATE  USE  WHICH  WAS  LEFT  TO  POOR  AND 
RICH    BROTHERS. 

MISHNA  /. :  A  simple  "  get  "  *  (document)  the  witnesses 
must  sign  at  the  end  of  the  contents.  A  folded  one,  however, 
the  witnesses  must  sign  outside.f  But  if  the  witnesses  signed 
their  names  outside  in  a  simple  one,  or  inside  in  a  folded  one, 
both  are  invalid.  R.  Hanina  b.  Gamaliel,  however,  said:  If 
in  a  folded  one  the  signatures  of  the  witnesses  were  inside,  it  is 
valid,  as  it  can  be  taken  apart  and  will  constitute  a  simple  one. 
Rabbon  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  maintains:  All  must  be  done  as 
is  the  custom  of  the  country,  A  simple  document  must  be 
signed  by  two,  and  a  folding  one  by  three  witnesses.  If  there 
was  only  one  witness  to  a  simple  and  two  to  a  folding,  both 
are  invalid. 

GEMARA:  Whence  is  this  deduced?  Said  R.  Hanina: 
From  [Jer.  xxxii.  44]  "  Men  shall  buy  fields  for  money,  and 
write  it  in  deeds,  and  seal  them,  and  certify  it  by  witnesses," 
etc.  "  Write  it  in  deeds  "  means  a  simple  document ;  "  seal  " 
means  a  folding  one;  "  certify  "  means  by  two  witnesses;  "  by 
witnesses"  means  three.     How  so?     We  must  say,  then,  two 

*  All  documents  were  called  by  the  Mishna  "  get."  This  terra  was  afterwards 
applied  to  a  bill  of  divorce.  The  Gemara,  however,  uses  the  term  "  shtar "  for 
documents. 

f  In  ancient  times  they  used  to  write  documents  as  follows  :  The  scribe  wrote 
one  line,  then  left  a  blank  the  size  of  the  line  written,  and  folded  it  over  and  sewed  it ; 
then  he  wrote  on  top  of  the  folding,  and  again  left  a  blank  of  the  same  siie,  and 
folded  it  over  the  writing  and  sewed  again,  and  so  on  ;  so  that  after  the  docimeat 
was  complete  the  signatures  of  the  witnesses  remained  on  the  outside. 

358 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST    GATE).  359 

witnesses  for  a  simple,  and  three  for  a  folding  one.  But  per- 
haps the  reverse?  Common  sense  dictates  that  a  folding  one, 
which  is  added  to  in  folding,  should  be  added  to  also  in  wit- 
nesses. (The  discussion  proceeds  to  deduce  this  from  the 
Scriptures,  which  were  objected  to  as  usual,  and  the  Gemara 
came  to  the  following  conclusion) :  The  folding  one  is  only 
an  enactment  by  the  rabbis ;  and  the  verse  above  cited  was  only 
a  light  support.  And  why  this  enactment?  Because  of  the 
many  priests  who  used  to  live  in  their  city.  (The  law  pre- 
scribes that  a  priest,  having  divorced  his  wife,  it  is  prohibited 
to  him  to  remarry  her;  which  is  not  the  case  with  a  com- 
moner.) And  as  the  priests  are  usually  ill-tempered,  they  used 
to  divorce  their  wives  as  soon  as  they  became  angry.  There- 
fore the  rabbis  enacted  that  the  "  get "  should  be  folded  and 
sewn  several  times,  that  it  might  prolong  the  time,  in  order 
that  they  should  become  quiet,  and  recede  from  their  previous 
intention.  This  is  correct  concerning  divorces.  But  why  for 
other  documents?  Because  all  kinds  of  documents  were  then 
called  "  gets,"  they  enacted  that  all  should  be  done  in  one 
manner. 

In  what  place  should  the  witnesses  sign  a  folding  docu- 
ment? According  to  R.  Huna:  Between  one  folding  and  an- 
other (i.e.,  in  the  folding  space  above  the  lines,  and  thereafter 
it  was  folded  and  sewn  so  that  the  signatures  were  inside).  Ac- 
cording to  R.  Jeremiah  b.  Abba:  On  the  reverse  side,  and  ex- 
actly opposite  the  writing.  Said  Rami  b.  Hama  to  R.  Hisda: 
According  to  R.  Huna,  who  maintains  in  the  folding  space 
above  the  lines  which  is  thereafter  also  folded,  it  is  to  be  as- 
sumed that  it  remains  inside ;  but  this  is  not  so,  as  it  happened 
that  a  folding  document  was  brought  before  Rabbi,  and  he 
exclaimed:  There  is  no  date  to  it.  To  which  R.  Simeon  his 
son  answered:  Perhaps  the  date  is  inserted,  etc.  (post,  p.  363). 
Now,  if  it  were  as  R.  Huna  said,  Rabbi  ought  to  say :  There  is 
neither  date  nor  witnesses  (as  the  witnesses  signed  inside,  one 
could  not  sew  it  when  it  was  folded).  And  R.  Hisda  answered : 
Do  you  think  that  R.  Huna  means  between  the  folding  inside? 
He  meant  outside.  But  if  so,  why  should  not  forgery  be 
feared,  as  one  can  write  inside  what  he  likes,  while  the  wit- 
nesses have  already  signed  outside?  In  the  document  must 
be  written  at  the  end,  "  All  its  contents  are  true,"  and  they  re- 


36o  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

main  forever.  Hence  to  that  which  is  written  thereafter  no 
attention  is  given.  But  it  is  still  to  be  feared  that  after  it  is 
written  he  can  forge  what  he  pleases,  and  then  write  again,  "  All 
this  is  true,"  and  have  it  signed  by  other  witnesses?  A  docu- 
ment must  contain  only  one  approval  that  "  all  is  true,"  but  not 
more.  But  still  it  is  to  be  feared  that  he  can  erase  the  ap- 
proval, adding  what  he  pleases,  and  then  write,  "  All  is  true," 
etc.  To  this  it  was  said  by  R.  Johanan :  If  there  was  inserted 
a  word  between  the  lines,  and  thereafter  the  witnesses  testify 
it  was  inserted  at  their  instance  and  they  approve  it,  the  docu- 
ment is  valid;  but  if  some  words  were  erased,  then,  although 
approved  at  the  end,  the  document  is  nevertheless  invalid. 
And  this  was  said  concerning  an  erasure  in  the  place  of  the 
words  "  all  that  is  written  is  true,"  and  the  size  of  these  words. 
But  even  according  to  R.  Jeremiah  b.  Abba,  who  said:  On 
the  reverse,  and  opposite  the  writing  (i.e.,  where  the  writing 
finishes  inside,  he  shall  begin  opposite  to  write  his  name;  so 
that  if  there  should  be  some  lines  more  over  the  signature  of 
the  witness  it  would  be  considered  forgery),  it  is  also  to  be 
feared  that  one  might  forge  some  lines,  and  add  one  more  wit- 
ness, opposite  the  forgery,  and  might  say:  My  intention  was 
to  add  one  witness  more?  And  the  answer  was:  Do  you  think 
that  the  witnesses  have  signed  lengthwise,  in  order?  No! 
They  signed  one  under  the  other,  so  that  no  more  lines  after 
the  witnesses'  signatures  could  be  added.* 

R.  Itz'hak  b.  Joseph  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  said:  To 
all  the  erasures  which  are  in  the  document  must  be  written  at 
the  end,  "  With  this  signature  we  approve  them,"  etc. ;  and  in 
the  mean  time  they  must  mention  the  abstract  of  the  contents 
in  the  last  line.  And  why  so?  Said  R.  Amram:  Because  the 
last  line  is  not  taken  into  consideration,  as  it  can  easily  be 
forged;  as  usually  the  witnesses  do  not  sign  so  near  to  the 
writing  that  one  line  could  not  be  inserted,  and  therefore  if 
the  abstract  of  its  contents  is  written  attention  is  given,  but 
not  to  something  new.  And  to  the  question  of  R.  Na'hman : 
What  is  the  basis  of  your  statement?  he  answered:  The  fol- 
lowing Boraitha :  If  the  signatures  of  the  witnesses  were  sepa- 

*  The  text  continues  to  discuss  the  different  kinds  of  forgery  possible,  and  gives 
illustrations  so  complicated  that  it  would  be  difficult  for  the  reader  to  get  any  idea  of 
them.     They  are  unimportant,  and  therefore  omitted. 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST    GATE).  361 

rated  by  a  space  of  two  lines  from  the  writing,  the  document 
is  invalid ;  but  if  by  one  line,  it  is  valid.  Let  us,  then,  see  what 
is  the  reason  that  two  lines'  space  make  the  document  invalid. 
Is  it  not  because  one  can  forge  the  two  lines?  But  the  same 
can  be  done  with  one  line  also?  We  must  then  say  that  if  a 
new  sentence  is  written  on  the  last  line  it  is  not  taken  into  con- 
sideration.    And  so  it  is. 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question:  How  is  it  if  there 
is  space  for  one  line  and  a  half?  Come  and  hear  the  following : 
If  there  is  space  for  two  lines,  it  is  invalid ;  for  less  than  two, 
it  is  valid.  If  there  were  four  or  five  witnesses  to  a  document 
and  one  of  them  was  found  to  be  a  relative,  or  incompetent  for 
some  other  reason  to  be  a  witness,  the  document  may  remain 
in  force  by  the  remaining  witnesses.  And  this  is  a  support  to 
Hezkiyah,  who  said :  If  there  was  a  space  left,  and  this  was 
filled  up  with  the  signatures  of  relatives  as  witnesses,  the  docu- 
ment is  valid.  And  do  not  be  surprised  at  such  a  law  (why 
should  not  the  signatures  of  the  relatives  who  are  not  compe- 
tent to  witness  in  that  case  harm  this  document?),  as  such  a 
law  is  to  be  found  concerning  a  Sukka:  If  on  the  roof  of  the 
Sukka  was  space  to  the  size  of  three  spans  uncovered,  it  makes 
the  Sukka  invalid ;  but  if  it  was  covered  with  illegal  things,  the 
size  of  four  is  needed  to  make  it  invalid. 

The  schoolmen  questioned:  In  the  two  lines  in  question, 
is  it  meant  with  their  usual  space  or  without?  Said  R.  Na'h- 
man  b,  Itz'hak :  Common  sense  dictates  that  their  space  is  in- 
cluded ;  as  if  it  were  supposed  that  it  meant  without,  of  what 
use  could  be  the  size  of  one  line  without  any  space  to  it?  (If 
one  should  come  to  forget  this  line,  he  would  then  be  com- 
pelled to  write  it  in  such  characters  that  it  would  be  entirely 
different  from  the  original  and  immediately  recognized.  Infer 
from  this,  therefore,  that  "  with  their  space  "  is  meant.) 

R.  Sabbathi  said  in  the  name  of  Hezkiyah:  The  space  of 
the  two  lines  in  question  means  of  the  handwriting  of  the  wit- 
nesses, not  of  the  scribes;  as  if  one  wants  to  forge,  he  does 
not  go  to  the  scribes  (and  usually  the  handwriting  of  a  com- 
moner is  larger  than  that  of  a  scribe).     And  what  size  is  meant? 

fl  g^  k  z  ) 
^         I ,  which 

makes  two  lines  in  four  spaces.     According  to  R.  Hyya  b.  R. 


362  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

Ami  in  the  name  of  Ula:  Two  lines  and  three  spaces.  Accord- 
ing to  R.  Abuhu:  One  line  and  two  spaces.*  Said  Rabh: 
This  was  all  said  about  the  space  between  the  contents  of  the 
document  and  the  signature  of  the  witness.  But  from  the  sig- 
nature of  the  witness  to  the  approval  of  the  court,  it  does  not 
matter  how  much  space  is  left.  R.  Johanan,  however,  said: 
All  this  was  said  concerning  the  space  from  the  contents  to  the 
signatures  of  the  witnesses;  but  concerning  the  space  from 
the  signatures  of  the  witnesses  to  the  approval  of  the  court, 
even  if  there  was  one  line,  it  is  invalid.f 

"  R.  Hanina  b.  Gamaliel,"  etc.  Rabbi  objected  to  the  state- 
ment of  R.  Hanina,  thus :  How  could  one  make  from  a  folding 
one  a  simple,  if  their  dates  were  entirely  different?  As  in  a 
simple  document  which  is  dated  according  to  the  years  of  the 
king,  if  the  king  was  in  his  first  year,  it  is  written :  On  fourth 
day  of  such  and  such  a  month,  in  the  first  year  of  king  so  and 
so ;  and  in  a  folding  one  they  used  to  add  one  year  to  the  king- 
ship of  the  ruler  (e.g.,  when  it  was  in  the  first  year,  they  used 
to  write  in  the  second;  and  if  in  the  second,  they  used  to  write 
in  the  third).  (Rashbam  says:  It  was  the  custom  of  the  na- 
tions to  add  one  year  to  the  kingship  of  the  ruler  in  their  docu- 
ments. And  the  rabbis  enacted :  In  a  folding  one  it  shall  be 
dated  according  to  the  custom  of  the  land,  for  the  above-men- 
tioned reason;  but  not  in  simple  documents.)  Now,  if  you 
say  that  it  can  be  taken  apart  and  made  a  simple  one,  it  may 
happen  that  one  can  borrow  money  with  a  folding  one,  and 
during  this  time  may  come  into  some  money  and  pay  his  debt 
before  due;  and  to  the  request  for  a  return  of  the  document, 
one  may  say  that  he  lost  it,  and  give  a  receipt.  Then,  when 
the  document  falls  due,  he  can  make  it  into  a  simple,  and  re- 
quire his  money  again  (as  in  the  folding  one  there  was  added 
one  year,  hence  the  time  due  in  a  simple  comes  one  year  later, 
and  he  can  claim  that  he  borrowed  money  again  for  the  cur- 
rent year)?  Rabbi  holds:  Concerning  a  folding  one,  no  pay- 
ment is  made  upon  a  receipt  unless  the  document  is  returned 
or  destroyed. 

Here  also  are  illustrations  of  Hebrew  words,  which  it  would  be  difficult  for 
the  English  reader  to  understand,  and  are  therefore  omitted. 

f  We  have  omitted  the  discussion  in  the  Gemara  as  to  the  reasons  of  Rabh  and 
Johanan  about  the  risk  of  forjjery,  with  many  illustrations  of  great  complication, 
which  would  hardly  be  understood  if  translated,  and  are  also  of  no  importance. 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  363 

But  was,  then,  Rabbi  acquainted  with  a  folding  document? 
Did  not  one  come  before  Rabbi,  who  was  about  to  annul  it  be- 
cause it  bore  a  later  date  ?  And  Zunin  said  to  Rabbi :  So  is 
the  custom  of  this  nation,  that  if  the  king  has  ruled  one  year 
they  count  him  two ;  and  if  two,  three.  After  he  had  heard  it 
from  Zunin,  he  enacted  the  law  that  no  money  should  be  paid 
upon  a  receipt.  There  was  a  document  in  which  was  written : 
In  such  a  date  of  the  year  of  Orkhon,  A  had  borrowed  money 
from  B  (but  the  number  of  the  year  was  not  written),  and  R. 
Hanina,  before  whom  the  case  came,  said:  It  must  be  ex- 
amined when  this  Orkhon  ascended  the  throne;  and  perhaps  it 
was  several  years  after,  as  the  meaning  of  Orkhon  is  "  lengthy," 
and  he  was  named  Orkhon  because  he  was  a  good  many  years 
on  the  throne.  Said  R.  Hoshea  to  him:  So  is  the  custom  of 
this  nation :  the  first  year  they  named  him  Orkhon,  and  the  sec- 
ond year  Digon.  Hence  this  document  must  be  counted  from 
the  first  year  of  the  present  ruler.  But  perhaps  it  was  when 
he  ascended  the  throne  the  second  time,  as  once  he  abdicated 
and  then  ascended  again?  Said  R.  Jeremiah:  At  the  second 
time  he  was  named  Orkhon-Digon,  and  not  Orkhon  only. 

There  was  a  folding  document  which  came  before  Rabbi, 
and  he  said:  There  is  no  date  to  it.  R.  Simeon  his  son  then 
said  to  him :  Perhaps  it  is  inserted  between  its  folds !  He  took 
it  apart,  and  found  the  date.  Thereupon  Rabbi  scrutinized  him. 
To  which  Simeon  said :  Not  I  was  the  writer  of  it,  but  Jehu- 
dah  the  Tailor.  And  Rabbi  answered :  Leave  out  slander.  It 
happened  at  another  time  that  R.  Simeon  was  sitting  before 
Rabbi,  and  reading  for  him  a  chapter  of  Psalms,  and  Rabbi 
caid :  How  correctly  and  nicely  it  is  written.  To  which  Simeon 
answered :  Not  I,  but  Jehudah  the  Tailor,  wrote  it.  And  also 
to  this  Rabbi  remarked :  Leave  out  slander.  (Questioned  the 
Gemara :)  It  is  correct  that  the  first  time  he  told  him  he  should 
leave  out  slander,  as  Rabbi  disliked  folding  documents,  and 
was  angry  with  the  writer  of  it.  But  what  slander  was  it  if 
he  said  that  the  correct  and  nice  writing  was  by  Jehudah  ?  This 
is  in  accordance  with  R.  Dimi  the  brother  of  Safras,  who 
taught :  One  must  be  careful  in  praising  his  neighbor,  as  very 
often  blaming  comes  from  praising. 

R.  Amram  in  the  name  of  Rabh  said :  From  the  following 
three  transgressions  one  is  not  saved  day  by  day,  namely:  (a) 


364  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

Thought  about  sin  {e.g.,  if  he  sees  a  handsome  woman);  (b) 
calculation  of  the  effects  of  prayer — expectation  of  the  granting 
of  one's  prayer  as  a  due  claim ;  (c)  and  slander.  Slander!  Do 
you  mean  that  people  slander  one  another  every  day?  It 
means  indirect  slander  (e.g.,  while  praising  or  talking  of  one, 
one  indirectly  comes  to  blame).  R.  Jehudah  said  in  the  name 
of  Rabh :  The  majority  of  men  are  suspected  of  robbing  {i.e., 
in  business  every  one  looks  out  for  himself,  without  taking 
care  lest  he  do  wrong  to  him  who  deals  with  him),  the  minority 
are  suspected  of  adultery,  and  all  of  them  of  indirect  slander. 

"  All  must  be  done  as  is  customary  in  the  country.''  But  does 
not  the  first  Tana  also  hold  that  the  customs  of  the  country  are 
to  be  observed?  Said  R.  Ashi:  At  those  places  where  a  simple 
is  customary,  and  one  told  the  scribe  to  make  it,  and  he  made 
him  a  folding  one,  it  is  certainly  invalid;  and  vice  versa.  The 
point  of  this  difference,  however,  is  the  places  where  both  are 
customary,  and  he  ordered  the  scribe  to  make  for  him  a  simple, 
but  he  prepared  a  folding  one.  According  to  the  first  Tana: 
It  is  invalid.  According  to  R.  Simeon:  It  is  valid,  as  it  may 
be  supposed  that  he  ordered  him  to  make  for  him  a  simple  only 
for  the  scribe's  sake,  that  he  should  have  less  trouble ;  but  if  he 
did  not  heed,  and  made  a  folding  one,  it  must  not  be  ignored. 
Said  Abayi :  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel,  R.  Simeon,  and  R,  Elazar 
all  are  of  the  opinion  that  in  such  a  case  it  must  be  supposed  that 
the  giver  of  the  order  did  so  only  to  show  him  what  was  better 
for  him ;  but  he  did  not  intend  to  be  particular.  B.  Gamaliel 
as  just  mentioned;  R.  Simeon  with  his  statement  that  if  one 
has  deceived  a  woman,  not  to  her  evil,  but  to  her  good  {e.g., 
if  he  said  to  her:  You  are  betrothed  to  me  with  this  silver 
dinar,  and  it  was  a  golden  one),  his  act  is  valid;  and  R.  Elazar 
of  the  following  Mishna :  If  a  woman  said :  Go  and  receive  my 
divorce  at  such  and  such  a  place,  and  he  received  it  at  another 
place,  it  is  invalid.  But  according  to  R.  Elazar  it  is  valid,  as 
it  is  to  be  supposed  that  she  only  showed  him  the  place  where 
she  supposed  it  was  better  for  him  to  go,  but  was  not  particular 
in  her  words. 

"  If  there  was  only  one  zvitness  to  a  simple,"  etc.  It  is  cor- 
rect what  the  Mishna  teaches  us:  A  folding  document  which 
was  signed  by  two  witnesses  only  is  invalid,  as  in  all  other 
cases  two  witnesses  suffice.     But  to  what  purpose  does  it  state 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  365 

that  one  witness  to  a  simple  is  invalid  ?  Is  this  not  self-evident, 
as  there  is  no  case  in  which  one  witness  should  be  sufficient? 
Said  Abayi:  It  teaches:  Even  if,  in  addition  to  that  witness 
who  has  signed,  there  were  another  who  testified  the  same  ver- 
bally, it  is  nevertheless  invalid.  Amimar,  however,  had  in  a 
similar  case  which  came  before  him  decided  that  the  document 
is  in  force.  And  to  R.  Ashi's  objection  that  Abayi  holds  it  in- 
valid, he  answered :  I  do  not  hold  with  him.  But  how  would 
Amimar  explain  the  above  question — to  what  purpose  is  it 
stated  in  the  Mishna?  He  would  answer  thus:  It  came  to 
teach  that  as  a  simple  document  with  one  witness  is  invalid 
biblically,  so  it  is  with  two  witnesses  to  a  folding.  And  as  a 
support  to  Amimar  there  may  be  taken  the  following:  The 
colleagues  of  R.  Jeremiah  in  Palestine  sent  a  message  to  him : 
How  is  it  if  there  is  one  witness  in  writing  and  the  other  ver- 
bally— should  they  be  conjoined  for  decision  upon  their  testi- 
mony, or  not?  We  do  not  question,  how  is  it  according  to  the 
first  Tana,  the  opponent  of  R.  Jehoshua  b.  Kar'ha,  who  main- 
tains, in  Tract  Sanhedrin:  Even  two  with  two  must  not  be 
conjoined  under  certain  circumstances,  and  so  much  the  less 
one  with  one.  But  our  question  is,  how  is  it  according  to  R. 
Jehoshua,  who  decided:  If  there  were  two  witnesses  in  writ- 
ing and  two  verbally,  they  are  to  be  conjoined?  Does  he  hold 
the  same  when  there  was  one  and  one,  or  not?  And  R.  Jere- 
miah answered :  I  am  not  worthy  that  you  should  send  to  me 
such  a  message.  But  as  you  have  already  done  so,  I  may  say 
that  the  opinion  of  your  disciple  is  that  they  may  be  conjoined. 
(Said  R.  Ashi:)  We  have  heard  that  the  message  was  thus: 
The  colleagues  sent  to  R.  Jeremiah :  How  is  the  law  if,  of  two 
witnesses,  one  of  them  has  testified  before  one  court  and  the 
other  before  another — may  both  courts  be  conjoined  to  de- 
cide upon  their  testimony?  We  are  aware  that  according  to 
the  first  Tana,  the  opponent  of  R.  Nathan:  Even  if  they  had 
testified  at  different  times  before  one  court,  their  testimony 
is  not  to  be  taken  into  consideration,  two  courts  are  out  of  the 
question.  But  according  to  R.  Nathan,  who  says :  "  In  one 
court  their  testimony  may  be  conjoined,"  does  he  hold  the  same 
with  two  courts,  or  not?  And  R.  Jeremiah  answered  them 
as  said  above.  Rabhina,  however,  said:  The  message  was 
thus:  If  three  were  sitting  as  a  Beth  Din  to  approve  a  docu- 


366  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

ment,  and  thereafter  one  of  them  died,  must  they  write  in  their 
approval,  "  We  were  sitting  three,  but  one  is  gone  " ;  or  is  it 
not  necessary?  And  he  answered  them:  I  am  not  worthy  that 
>ou  should  send  questions  to  me,  but  as  you  have  done  so,  I 
may  say  that  the  opinion  of  your  disciple  is  that  it  is  necessary 
they  should  write,  "  We  all  three  were  sitting  as  a  Beth  Din, 
according  to  the  law,  to  approve  this  document,  but  one  of  us 
is  gone,  and  therefore  only  we  two  sign."  And  for  this  an- 
swer R.  Jeremiah  was  returned  to  the  college  (above,  p.  71, 
it  was  written  that  he  was  driven  from  the  college). 

MISHNA  //. :  If  in  the  document  was  written,  "  hundred 
zuz  which  make  twenty  selas,"  he  collects  only  twenty  selas. 
If,  however,  it  was  written,  "  hundred  zuz  which  make  thirty 
selas,"  he  collects  only  one  mana  (which  only  makes  twenty- 
five  selas).  If  there  was  written,  "  silver  zuz  which  are,"  and 
the  preceding  words  were  erased,  then  the  document  is  good 
for  no  less  than  two;  "silver  selas  which  are,"  and  the  pre- 
ceding was  erased,  no  less  than  two  selas ;  "  dracontiums  which 
are"  it  means  also  no  less  than  two. 

If  on  the  top  of  the  document  was  written  "  a  mana  "  and  on 
the  bottom  "  two  hundred  zuz,"  or  vice  versa,  the  last  one  must 
always  be  taken  into  consideration.  But  if  so,  why  is  it  at  all 
necessary  that  the  amount  should  be  written  at  the  top?  To 
the  end  that  should  it  happen  that  in  the  words  of  the  bottom 
one  letter  should  be  erased,  then  we  may  learn  it  from  the  top 
one. 

GEMARA:  The  rabbis  taught:  If  it  was  written  "sil- 
ver," without  mentioning  any  particular  coin,  the  document 
is  good  for  no  less  than  one  silver  dinar;  and  if  "  silver  dinars," 
or  "  dinars  of  silver,"  then  it  is  no  less  than  two  silver  dinars. 
If,  however,  "  silver  to  be  paid  with  dinars,"  then  it  is  no  less 
than  two  golden  dinars  (it  being  understood  that  he  borrowed 
from  him  silver  to  be  paid  with  gold  dinars,  and  as  there  is  a 
plural  it  is  no  less  than  two). 

The  master  said :  "  Silver  no  less  than  a  dinar."  But  per- 
haps it  means  a  piece  of  metal?  Said  R.  Elazar:  It  means  it 
was  written  a  silver  coin,  but  it  was  not  mentioned  which.  But 
if  so,  why  should  it  not  mean  perutas?  Said  R.  Papa:  It 
treats  of  those  places  where  the  perutas  were  not  made  of 
silver. 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  367 

The  rabbis  taught :  If  the  documents  read  "  gold,"  it  is  not 
less  than  a  golden  dinar;  "  golden  dinars,"  or  "  dinars  of  gold," 
it  is  not  less  than  two  golden  ones.  If,  however,  it  was  writ- 
ten, "  gold  to  be  paid  with  dinars,"  he  must  pay  in  gold  the 
value  of  two  silver  dinars.  But  why  should  this  not  be  ex- 
plained: He  shall  pay  him  in  good  gold  to  the  value  of  two 
golden  dinars?  Said  Abayi:-The  defendant  has  always  the 
preference  {i.e.,  by  the  general  name  dinar  is  meant  a  silver 
one;  of  a  golden  dinar  it  must  be  said  plainly  golden,  and  as 
here  it  is  mentioned  to  be  paid  with  dinars,  and  the  word  gold 
is  omitted,  the  holder  of  the  document  has  to  suffer).  But  why 
in  the  first  case,  where  it  reads  "  silver  to  be  paid  with  dinars," 
you  say  he  shall  pay  two  golden  dinars  ?  Said  R.  Ashi :  That 
Boraitha  treats  of  when  the  document  reads  "  denri,"  and  the 
latter  Boraitha  when  it  was  written  "  denrin  "  ;  and  "  denri " 
means  gold,  and  "  denrin  "  silver.  And  my  support  is  from  a 
Mishna  in  Tract  Kinin :  "  .  .  .  It  happened  that  the  price 
of  kinin  in  Jerusalem  increased  to  the  extent  of  denri  in  gold. 
Said  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel :  I  swear  by  the  Temple  that  I  go 
not  to  bed  this  night  before  their  price  shall  decrease  to  denrin." 
Hence  denrin  means  silver,  and  denri  gold. 

"  On  the  top  of  the  document,''  etc.  The  rabbis  taught :  The 
bottom  may  be  learned  from  the  top  when  there  is  only  one 
letter  erased ;  but  not  when  two  (e.g.,  if  it  was  written,  "  Hanan 
of  Hanani,"  or  "  Anan  of  Anani  " — i.e.,  the  i  was  erased).  Let 
us  see!  Why  not  two  letters?  Because  if  there  were  a  name 
of  four  letters,  two  would  constitute  one  half  of  a  name.  The 
same  can  be  said  with  one  of  two  letters,  as  there  are  names 
which  consist  of  two  letters  only;  *  then  the  one  would  be  one 
half  of  a  name.  Therefore  we  must  say  that  the  exception  of 
two  letters  is  because  it  might  happen  in  a  name  of  three  let- 
ters, and  when  two  are  erased  the  greater  part  of  the  name  is 
missing. 

There  was  a  document  in  which  was  written  "  six  hundred 
and  a  zuz,"  and  R.  Chrabia  sent  it  to  Abayi,  questioning  him : 
Does  it  mean  six  hundred  staters  and  one  zuz,  or  six  hundred 
perutas  and  a  zuz.  And  he  answered:  Eliminate  perutas, 
which  it  is  not  usual  to  write  in  a  document,  as  generally  they 
are  counted  together  to  make  from  them  dinars  or  zuz.     This 

*  In  the  Bible  there  are  many  examples  of  names  which  consist  of  only  two  letters. 


368  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

must  therefore  mean  six  hundred  staters.  But  as  there  are 
staters  of  two  zuz,  and  also  others  of  the  same  name  of  half  a 
zuz,  and  it  was  said  above  that  the  defendant  has  the  prefer- 
ence, the  holder  of  the  document  must  sufTer,  and  he  takes 
only  six  hundred  half-zuz  and  a  zuz.  Abayi  said:  If  one  de- 
sires that  his  signature  shall  be  known  in  the  court,  he  shall 
not  write  it  at  the  bottom  of  a  paper,  as  one  can  find  it,  but 
write  at  the  top  that  he  owes  him  money.  And  there  is  a 
Mishna:  If  one  shows  a  document  with  his  handwriting  that 
he  owes  him  money,  he  may  collect  from  unencumbered  estates. 

There  was  a  toll-master  of  a  bridge  who  was  a  Jew,  who 
said  to  Abayi:  Let  the  master  show  me  his  signature,  as  it  is 
my  custom  to  allow  the  rabbis  to  pass  without  pay  (I  would 
leave  it  with  my  assistants  so  that  if  it  should  happen  you  would 
like  to  pass,  they  will  not  demand  payment).  Abayi  showed 
him  on  the  top  of  a  piece  of  paper.  He,  however,  tried  to  draw 
the  paper  so  that  the  signature  should  come  a  little  lower,  and 
Abayi  said  to  him:  Do  not  try,  as  the  rabbis  have  preceded 
you  with  their  advice  to  sew  a  signature  at  the  very  top  of  the 
paper.  Abayi  said  again :  From  the  word  "  thlath,"  which 
means  three,  to  the  word  "  eser,"  which  means  ten,  one  shall 
not  write  in  a  promissory  note  at  the  end  of  the  line,  to  prevent 
forgery.*  But  if  it  happened  that  he  did  so,  he  should  repeat 
the  word  two  or  three  times,  so  that  one  of  them  should  occur 
in  the  middle  of  the  line. 

There  was  one  document  in  which  was  written :  "  A  third 
of  a  vineyard  " — in  Aramaic  "  Thiltha  Beperidisa  " — and  the 
owner  of  this  document  erased  the  top  and  the  bottom  of  the 
first  letter  of  the  second  Hebrew  word,  so  that  from  the  Beth 
he  made  a  Vav,  which  means  "  and,"  so  that  the  document,  as 
brought  before  Abayi,  read :  "  A  third  and  the  vineyard,"  and 
claimed  a  third  of  the  seller's  ganden  and  the  whole  vineyard. 
When  Abayi  examined  the  document,  he  asked  him  :  Why  does 
the  Vav  stand  so  extended  in  the  world?  He  then  urged  him 
to  confess,  which  he  did. 

There  was  another  document,  in  which  was  written :  The 
shares  of  Reuben  and  Simeon  my  brothers  ("  Achai  "  in  He- 

*  "  Thlath  "  means  three,  "  thlathin  "  thirty  ;  and  so  also  is  it  with  all  the  words 
from  three  to  ten  :  e.g. ,  "  arba  "  means  four,  and  with  the  suffix  "  in  "  it  means  forty  ; 
"  eser  "  means  ten,  "  eserin  "  means  twenty. 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  369 

brew)  were  sold  to  me.  The  buyer,  however,  added  a  Vav  for 
the  word  Achai,  and  as  the  brothers  had  another  brother  by 
the  name  of  Achai,  he  claimed  that  he  bought  the  shares  of  all 
three  brothers — Reuben,  Simeon,  and  Achai.  With  this  docu- 
ment he  came  to  the  court  of  Abayi.  And  there  also  Abayi 
asked  him:  Why  is  the  world  so  narrow  to  the  Vav?  And 
also  he  was  urged  to  confess,  which  he  did.  There  was  another 
document,  which  was  signed  by  Rabha  and  R.  Aha  b.  Ada. 
When  it  was  brought  before  Rabha,  he  said:  I  recognize  my 
handwriting,  but  I  never  signed  my  name  in  the  presence  of 
R.  Aha  b.  Ada.  He  urged  the  holder  of  the  document  to  con- 
fess, which  he  did.  Then  said  Rabha  to  him:  I  understand 
how  you  might  easily  forge  my  name ;  but  how  could  you  do 
so  with  R.  Aha's,  whose  hands  are  trembling?  And  he  an- 
swered: I  would  put  my  hand  on  the  ropo-bridge,  to  imitate 
a  trembling  writing. 

MISHNA  ///. :  A  divorce  may  be  written  by  the  court  for 
a  husband  in  the  absence  of  his  wife  (because,  according  to  the 
ancient  law,  the  consent  of  the  woman  was  not  necessary) ;  and 
an  approved  receipt  for  a  marriage  contract  to  be  handed  to 
the  woman  in  the  absence  of  her  husband,  provided  the  court 
knows  them — the  husband  must  pay  the  fees.  A  promissory 
note  may  be  written  for  the  borrower  in  the  absence  of  the 
lender,  but  not  for  the  lender  unless  the  borrower  is  present; 
and  the  fee  is  to  be  paid  by  the  borrower.  A  bill  of  sale  may 
be  written  for  the  seller  in  the  absence  of  the  buyer,  but  not  for 
the  buyer  unless  the  seller  is  present ;  the  buyer  pays  the  fees. 
Documents  of  betrothal  and  marriage  must  not  be  written  un- 
less both  are  present — at  the  expense  of  the  groom.  The  same 
is  the  case  with  documents  for  hiring,  and  contracting  fields 
and  gardens;  and  the  expenses  are  to  the  contractors.  Docu- 
ments of  arbitrating,  and  all  other  acts  of  mediating  by  the 
court,  must  not  be  written  unless  both  parties  are  present — at 
the  expense  of  both. 

R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel,  however,  maintains:  The  latter 
documents  must  be  written  in  two  copies,  one  for  each  party. 

GEMARA:  What  does  it  mean — provided  the  court 
knows  them?  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  They 
shall  know  exactly  the  name  of  the  husband  concerning  a  di- 
vorce, and  the  exact  name  of  the  woman  concerning  a  receipt. 


370  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

R.  Safra,  R.  Aba  b.  Huna,  and  R.  Huna  b.  Hinna  were  sitting 
together  in  the  presence  of  Abayi  and  were  dehberating  over 
the  statement  of  Rabh  just  mentioned — concerning  a  divorce, 
the  name  of  the  husband,  but  not  the  name  of  his  wife?  and  con- 
cerning a  receipt,  the  name  of  the  woman,  though  they  do  not 
know  the  name  of  the  husband?  Why  should  it  not  be  feared 
that  this  man  would  furnish  the  divorce  to  another  woman, 
whose  husband  bore  the  same  name  as  himself?  And  the  same 
is  the  case  with  the  woman :  she  may  furnish  her  receipt  to  a 
man  whose  wife  bears  the  same  name.  Said  Abayi  to  them: 
So  said  Rabh :  The  name  of  the  husband  and  of  his  wife,  con- 
cerning a  divorce ;  and  the  same  is  the  case  with  a  receipt — the 
name  of  the  woman  and  her  husband.  But  why  should  it  be 
prepared  and  given  to  the  husband?  Is  it  not  to  be  feared 
that  two  men  who  bear  one  and  the  same  name  should  reside 
in  the  same  city  {e.g.,  Joseph  b.  Simeon),  whose  wives  also  bear 
the  name  of  Rachel,  and  one  can  take  a  divorce  and  give  it  to 
the  wife  of  the  other?  Said  R.  A'ha  b.  Hinna  to  them :  So  said 
Rabh :  If  two  men  of  the  same  name  reside  in  one  city,  they  can- 
not divorce  their  wives  unless  both  the  men  named  and  their 
wives  are  present.  Still,  it  is  to  be  feared  that  one  may  go 
to  another  city,  name  himself  according  to  one  of  the  inhabi- 
tants of  his  city,  and  take  a  divorce,  and  thereafter  return  to 
his  city  and  furnish  the  divorce  to  the  wife  in  whose  husband's 
name  the  divorce  was  made  out.  Said  R.  Huna  b.  Hinna :  So 
said  Rabh :  If  one  was  known  under  one  name  thirty  days  in 
succession,  there  is  no  fear  that  he  bears  a  false  name,  as  he 
would  be  afraid  to  bear  it  for  such  a  long  time.  But  how  is 
it  if  one  requires  a  divorce  should  be  prepared  for  him  before 
he  was  known  thirty  days — shall  he  not  be  listened  to?  Said 
Abayi :  This  can  be  proved  by  somebody  calling  him  suddenly 
by  this  name,  and  he  answered.  R.  Zebid,  however,  maintains : 
A  swindler  knows  what  he  is  about,  and  is  careful.  And  there- 
fore it  is  no  evidence  if  he  answers  to  a  sudden  call. 

There  was  a  receipt  approved  by  Jeremiah  b.  Abba.  How- 
ever, the  same  woman  came  into  his  court  to  claim  her  mar- 
riage contract  several  years  later;  and  when  her  receipt  was 
shown  to  her,  she  claimed  to  be  not  the  same  woman  (i.e.,  it 
was  another  woman  who  bore  my  name  and  signed  the  receipt). 
Said  R.  Jeremiah :  1  also  was  of  that  opinion,  and  1  said  so  to 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  371 

the  witnesses  who  signed  this  document ;  but  they  told  me  you 
are  the  same  but  older,  and  therefore  your  voice  has  changed. 
And  the  case  came  before  Abayi,  who  said:  Although  it  was 
decided  by  the  rabbis:  If  one  said  something  in  behalf  of  the 
plaintiff  or  the  defendant,  he  has  no  right  to  retract  from 
the  first  statement,  and  decide  otherwise;  however,  with  a 
scholar,  who  is  not  used  to  look  in  the  face  of  a  woman  and 
to  be  particular  as  to  her  voice,  it  is  different,  as  it  must  be 
supposed  that  after  he  was  told  she  was  the  same,  he  himself 
had  recognized  her. 

There  was  another  similar  case  before  the  same  R.  Jere- 
miah, who  said  to  that  woman :  I  am  sure  you  are  the  same. 
And  also  here  Abayi  decided:  Although  a  rabbi  is  not  used 
to  look  in  the  face  of  a  woman,  etc. ;  but  when  he  says  he  did 
so,  and  is  sure,  he  may  be  trusted. 

Abayi  said:  It  is  advisable  for  a  young  scholar,  who  goes 
to  betroth  a  woman,  that  he  shall  take  with  him  a  commoner; 
as  otherwise  they  may  substitute  another  woman,  and  he  will 
not  notice  it. 

"  The  husband  must  pay  the  fees,"  etc.  Why  so?  Because 
it  is  written  [Deut.  xxiv.  i]  :  "  .  .  .  he  may  write  and  give," 
which  means  at  his  expense.  In  our  time,  however,  it  is  not  so 
customary,  because  the  rabbis  put  the  expenses  to  the  account 
of  the  woman,  in  case  the  husband  should  decline  to  bear  the 
expenses  and  postpone  the  divorce  in  a  case  where  the  woman 
is  compelled  to  demand  it. 

"Paid  by  the  borrower,"  etc.  Is  this  not  self-evident?  It 
treats  even  where  he  takes  money  for  business  at  a  half  profit. 

"  The  buyer  pays  the  fees,"  etc.  Is  this  not  self-evident?  It 
treats  even  in  case  the  seller  sold  his  field  because  of  its  infer- 
tility. 

"  The  expense  of  the  groom,"  etc.  Is  this  not  self-evident  ? 
It  means  even  if  he  were  a  scholar  and  the  court  were  certain 
that  they  would  be  pleased  to  have  him  as  a  son-in-law  even  at 
their  expense. 

"  The  expenses  are  to  the  contractors,"  etc.  Is  this  not  self- 
evident?  It  speaks  even  in  case  it  must  remain  for  a  year  or 
two  unfertilized  for  the  sake  of  the  estate. 

''Arbitrating  "  etc.  What  kind  of  documents  is  meant? 
In  this  college  it  was  explained :  The  documents  of  the  claims 


372  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

which  the  scribes  of  the  court  have  to  copy  so  that  the  parties 
should  not  change  afterwards.  R.  Jeremiah  b.  Abba  said:  It 
means,  in  case  each  one  chooses  his  arbitrator. 

"  One  for  each  party,"  etc.  Shall  we  assume  that  the  point 
of  their  difference  is,  if  one  may  be  compelled  not  to  act  like  a 
Sodomite?  According  to  the  first  Tana:  If  one  declines  to 
pay  the  half  of  the  expenses,  it  is  an  act  of  a  Sodomite,  and  he 
must  be  compelled  to  do  so.  And  according  to  R.  Simeon:  It 
is  not,  and  he  must  not  be  compelled?  Nay!  All  agree  that 
such  cases  are  to  be  compelled.  Here,  however,  it  is  different, 
as  the  reason  of  R.  Simeon's  decision  is :  One  may  say,  I  woulci 
not  Hke  that  my  claim  and  my  decided  right  should  always  be 
before  your  eyes,  while  I  do  not  possess  them ;  and  this  would 
be  a  burden  to  me,  as  if  a  lion  would  lie  at  my  house,  fearing 
every  time  that  you  might  come  to  quarrel  with  me. 

MISHNA  IV. :  If  one  has  paid  a  part  of  his  debt  and  de- 
posited his  document  with  some  one,  with  the  stipulation:  If 
I  should  not  pay  you  from  date  until  a  certain  day,  you  may 
return  this  document  to  the  lender,  and  finally  he  failed  to  pay; 
according  to  R.  Jose :  The  depositary  may  return,  and  accord- 
ing to  R.  Jehudah :  He  must  not. 

GEMARA:  What  is  the  point  of  their  difference?  R.  Jose 
holds :  An  asmachtha  *  gives  title.  And  R.  Jehudah  main- 
tains: It  does  not.  Said  R.  Na'hman  in  the  name  of  Rabba  b. 
Abuhu,  quoting  Rabh:  The  Halakha  prevails  with  R.  Jose. 
When  they  came  to  say  the  same  before  R.  Ami,  he  said  to 
them :  After  such  an  authority  as  Johanan  teaches  us,  once  and 
twice,  that  the  Halakha  prevails  with  R.  Jose,  what  can  I  do? 
However,  the  Halakha  does  not  prevail  with  R.  Jose  (remarks 
the  Gemara). 

MISHNA  V. :  If  it  happened  to  one  that  a  promissory  note 
became  erased,  he  must  find  witnesses  who  are  aware  of  the 
date  when  it  was  written,  and  bring  them  before  the  court,  and 
they  have  to  make  the  following  approval:  A,  the  son  of  B, 
came  here  with  his  note,  which  was  erased  on  such  and  such  a 
day,  and  C  and  D  were  his  witnesses. 

GEMARA:  The  rabbis  taught:  The  approval  must  be 
written  as  follows :  "  We  three,  E,  F,  G,  the  undersigned,  were 
sitting  together,  and  before  us  was  brought  by  A,  the  son  of  B, 

*  This  term  is  explained  in  previous  volumes  in  several  places. 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA    (LAST   GATE).  373 

an  erased  note,  which  was  signed  on  such  and  such  a  day,  and 
C  and  D  are  his  witnesses."  And  then  if  there  be  added :  "  We 
have  examined  the  testimony  of  the  witnesses,  and  have  found 
it  correct,"  the  holder  of  the  document  may  collect  with  it,  with- 
out further  evidence.  If,  however,  this  were  not  remarked, 
he  must  bring  evidence. 

If  a  document  was  torn,  it  is  invalid ;  but  if  it  was  torn  of 
itself,  it  is  valid.  If  it  was  erased  or  faint,  if  still  recognizable 
it  is  valid. 

What  does  it  mean — "  was  torn,"  and  "  was  torn  of  itself  "  ? 
Said  R.  Jehudah:  If  it  was  torn  by  the  court;  and  of  itself 
means  not  by  the  court.  How  is  it  to  be  known  that  it  was 
torn  by  the  court  ?  Said  R.  Jehudah :  If  the  places  where  the 
signatures  of  the  witnesses,  the  date,  and  the  amount  were  writ- 
ten are  torn.  Abayi,  however,  said :  The  court  used  to  tear  it 
in  its  length  and  width. 

There  were  Arabs  who  came  to  Pumbeditha,  who  used  to 
compel  the  inhabitants  to  submit  to  them  the  deeds  of  their 
estates.  The  inhabitants  of  the  city  came  to  Abayi  with  their 
deeds,  requesting  him  to  take  a  copy  of  them,  so  that,  in  case 
they  should  be  compelled  to  deliver  to  the  Arabs  the  originals, 
the  copies  should  remain,  so  that  in  the  future  they  could  be 
sued.  Said  he :  What  can  I  do  for  you,  since  R.  Safra  long  ago 
decided  that  two  deeds  must  not  be  written  for  one  field,  be- 
cause it  might  happen  that  one  would  seize  it  once,  and  again 
thereafter.  They,  however,  troubled  him,  and  he  said  to  his 
scribe :  Write  for  them  on  an  erased  paper,  and  the  witnesses 
shall  sign  on  the  paper  which  is  not  erased,  as  such  a  deed  is 
invalid.  Said  R.  Aha  b.  Minumi  to  him  :  But  perhaps  the  writ- 
ing will  be  recognizable,  and  then  it  will  be  valid,  as  stated  in 
the  Boraitha  above?  And  he  answered:  I  did  not  say  he 
should  write  a  correct  deed :  I  meant  he  should  write  some  let- 
ters of  the  alphabet. 

The  rabbis  taught :  If  one  comes  before  the  court  claiming 
that  he  has  lost  a  promissory  note  from  so  and  so,  although  he 
brought  with  him  witnesses  who  testify,  "  We  wrote  and  signed 
the  note  in  question  for  the  borrower,  and  in  our  presence  he 
gave  it  to  him,"  the  court  must  not  write  another  one.  How- 
ever, this  is  said  only  concerning  promissory  notes.  But  con- 
cerning deeds,  if  such  a  case  happened,  they  may  write  him 


374  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

another  one,  without  mentioning  that  the  seller  is  responsible 
in  case  it  should  be  taken  away  by  creditors.  Rabban  Simeon 
b.  Gamaliel,  however,  maintains:  This  must  not  be  done  even 
concerning  deeds.  And  he  used  to  say  also:  If  one  has  pre- 
sented a  gift  to  his  neighbor  by  a  deed,  if  the  deed  was  returned 
by  the  beneficiary,  the  gift  is  considered  returned.  The  sages, 
however,  say:  Nevertheless,  the  gift  remains  for  the  benefi- 
ciary. The  master  said:  Without  mentioning  the  responsi- 
biHty  of  the  seller.  Why  so?  Said  R.  Safra:  Because  two 
deeds  must  not  be  written  for  one  and  the  same  field,  for  the 
reason  it  may  happen  that  a  creditor  of  the  previous  owner 
will  take  it  away.  Then,  the  buyer  who  has  two  deeds  may  use 
both  deeds  to  take  away  the  estates  which  were  sold  by  A  to 
D  and  E.  {I.e.,  A  had  sold  a  field  to  B,  which  was  encumbered 
to  C,  the  creditor  of  A;  and  C  proclaimed  his  right  to  it.  Then 
B  proclaimed  his  right,  based  upon  the  deed,  to  the  estate  en- 
cumbered to  C,  and  took  away  the  estate  from  D,  who  bought 
it  from  A  at  a  later  date.  After  he  did  so,  and  the  deed  was 
torn  by  the  court,  he  (B)  would  make  a  bargain  with  C  that  for 
a  certain  amount  he  should  not  hasten  to  take  possession  of  the 
field  to  which  he  was  entitled,  but  should  wait  a  few  years  and 
then  do  it;  for  the  purpose  that  C's  first  claim  should  be  for- 
gotten, and  later  on,  when  C  should  take  possession  of  the  field 
which  was  until  now  in  the  hands  of  B,  it  should  seem  to  be  as 
a  new  claim;  and  then,  on  the  basis  of  the  second  deed  re- 
tained by  him  (B),  he  should  also  take  away  from  E  the  estates 
bought  by  him  from  A  at  a  later  date. 

(Says  the  Gemara:)  But  as  the  promissory  note  of  the 
creditor  was  torn  by  the  court  when  he  took  away  from  him 
the  first  time,  how  came  he  to  proclaim  his  right  again?  And 
should  one  say,  in  case  it  was  not  torn?  Did  not  R.  Na'hman 
say:  The  following  is  the  order  of  claims  before  the  court? 
The  lender  comes  to  the  court  to  complain  that  the  borrower 
does  not  pay  his  debt;  then  the  court  summons  him,  and  if 
he  does  not  appear  it  puts  him  under  the  ban,  and  a  replevin 
is  given  to  the  lender,  that  he  may  levy  on  the  estates  of  the 
borrower  or  of  those  who  bought  same  from  him  at  a  later  date 
than  that  of  the  promissory  note.  And  when  the  creditor  finds 
such  estates  in  some  other  city,  the  court  of  that  city  tears  the 
replevin  and  substitutes  a  document  that  he  may  collect  such 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  375 

and  such  an  amount  from  such  and  such  estate,  after  the  ap- 
praisement shall  be  made  for  the  court.  And  after  this  is  done, 
the  court  furnishes  him  with  a  memorandum  of  the  appraise- 
ment and  tears  the  previous  document.  Hence  a  replevin  in 
which  it  is  not  mentioned  that  the  promissory  note  of  the  bor- 
rower was  "  torn  by  us  "  must  not  be  taken  into  consideration 
by  any  court;  and  a  document  which  was  given  for  appraise- 
ment in  which  it  is  not  mentioned  that  the  replevin  of  such  and 
such  a  court  was  "  torn  by  us  "  is  also  not  to  be  taken  into  con- 
sideration. The  same  is  the  case  with  the  memorandum  of  ap- 
praisement with  which  the  court  furnishes  him,  if  it  is  not  men- 
tioned that  the  document  giving  the  right  to  make  an  appraise- 
ment of  the  estate  for  the  debt  of  so  and  so  was  "  torn  by  us." 
Hence  the  alleged  bargain  between  B  and  C  could  not  occur? 
The  statement  of  R.  Safras  that  two  deeds  must  not  be  written 
is  because  it  might  happen  that  one  should  claim  the  field  not 
for  debt,  but  because  he  inherited  it  from  his  parents,  and  it 
was  stolen  by  the  possessors  of  it.  In  such  a  case  the  above- 
mentioned  bargain  may  be  made.* 

Said  R.  Aha  of  Diphthi  to  Rabhina :  According  to  the  sup- 
posed bargain  mentioned  above,  that  B  asked  C  that  he  should 
not  hasten  to  take  possession,  to  what  purpose  such  a  bargain  ? 
If  he  possesses  two  deeds,  he  may  take  away  from  D  and  E 
at  one  time?  And  he  answered:  By  such  an  act  he  would  in- 
vite investigation  by  his  opponents,  and  they  would  find  out  the 
bargain. 

One  Mishna  states :  Concerning  deeds,  they  may  write  an- 
other one,  without  mentioning  the  responsibility  of  the  seller 
for  the  estate,  in  case  it  should  be  taken  away.  Why?  Let 
the  court  write  a  correct  deed  and  deliver  it  to  the  buyer,  at 
the  same  time  furnishing  the  seller  with  a  document  that  the 
first  deed  was  lost,  and  if  such  should  be  found,  that  it  was  of 
no  value,  as  another  deed  was  supplied  to  the  buyer.  The 
rabbis  said  before  R.  Papa,  according  to  others  before  R.  Ashi : 
Because  this  is  not  stated,  we  may  infer  that  the  court  must 
not  furnish  the  seller  with  such  a  receipt.  And  he  answered :  In 
other  cases,  receipts  may  be  written.  In  this  case,  however,  it  is 
not  because  of  the  bargain  mentioned  above,  but  as  the  receipt 

*  The  commentators  give  illustrations  of  how  such  a  bargain  might  be  made,  so 
involved  and  far-fetched  that  we  spare  the  reader  their  infliction. 


376  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

which  makes  the  first  deed  valueless  is  in  the  possession  of  A, 
and  not  in  the  hands  of  the  buyers;  and  it  might  be  that  D 
and  E,  who  had  bought  from  A,  would  not  be  aware  of  such  a 
document,  and  would  not  be  in  a  position  to  protest  against  the 
estates  being  taken  away  from  them  by  the  creditors  of  A.  But, 
finally,  D  and  E  would  transfer  their  claims  to  A;  and  then  he 
would  show  them  the  document,  and  the  estates  would  certainly 
be  returned  to  them?  Yea!  But  meanwhile  the  creditors 
would  consume  the  products,  and  it  would  be  a  difficulty  for 
D  or  E  to  collect  the  value  from  them,  as  there  is  a  rule:  On 
consumed  stolen  property  it  is  very  hard  to  collect.  It  may 
also  happen  that  D  and  E  bought  their  estate  without  any  re- 
sponsibility on  A's  part;  hence  one  may  take  it  away  without 
any  claim  from  these  parties.  But  if  such  a  case  is  to  be  feared, 
why  should  they  furnish  such  receipts  in  cases  of  loans,  as  the 
same  may  happen  with  promissory  notes — that  the  goods 
should  be  taken  away  while  the  receipt  is  in  the  hand  of  the 
borrower?  There  it  is  different.  If  the  claim  comes  with  a 
promissory  note  which  had  nothing  to  do  with  this  estate,  the 
possessors  of  the  estate  would  investigate  the  matter,  whether 
the  borrower  had  paid  him  the  money  due,  and  would  not  re- 
turn the  estate  without  consulting  the  seller,  who  is  the  debtor 
on  that  promissory  note :  which  is  not  the  case  if  the  document 
was  for  real  estate,  as  in  such  cases  usually  estates  are  claimed, 
and  not  money. 

The  master  said :  "  It  may  be  written  without  mentioning 
the  responsibility,"  etc.  How,  then,  should  it  be  written? 
Thus  said  R.  Na'hman :  This  deed  is  not  for  collection,  neither 
from  encumbered  nor  from  unencumbered  estates,  but  only  to 
testify  that  the  estate  belongs  to  so  and  so,  who  is  the  buyer  of 
it.  Said  Raphram:  From  this,  where  it  must  be  written  that 
such  a  document  is  not  in  force  for  collection,  it  may  be  in- 
ferred that  in  such  a  one  where  nothing  is  written  there  is  au- 
thority to  collect  with  it  even  from  encumbered  estates;  as  it 
is  to  be  supposed  that  it  is  an  error  of  the  scribe,  who  had  for- 
gotten to  insert  the  responsibility  of  the  seller.  R.  Ashi,  how- 
ever, maintains:  A  document  in  which  nothing  is  mentioned 
does  not  collect  from  encumbered  estates.  And  the  above 
Boraitha,  which  states,  "  not  to  mention  the  responsibility," 
etc.,  is  not  as  R.  Na'hman  explained  it,  but  is  to  be  taken  liter- 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  377 

ally — that  nothing  is  to  be  mentioned — and  then  he  is  HOt  re- 
sponsible. 

There  was  a  woman  who  gave  money  to  one  that  he  might 
buy  estates  for  her.  He  bought  them  for  her,  without  respon- 
sibility in  case  there  should  be  claims.  And  she  came  to  com- 
plain before  R.  Na'hman,  who  said :  The  woman  is  right,  as  she 
sent  to  you  to  the  end  that  she  should  have  benefit,  but  not  that 
she  should  suffer  damage.  You,  therefore,  have  to  buy  from 
the  woman  without  responsibility,  and  thereafter  to  sell  to  her 
with  your  responsibility. 

It  is  said  above  by  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel :  If  one  has  pre- 
sented a  gift  .  .  .  the  gift  is  considered  returned.  What 
is  his  reason?  Said  R.  Assi:  Because  it  is  to  be  considered 
as  if  one  were  to  say:  I  give  you  this  for  a  present  so  long  as 
you  keep  this  document.  Rabba  opposed:  If  so,  how  is  it  if 
this  document  was  torn  or  lost — must  one  also  return  the  gift? 
Therefore,  said  he,  the  point  of  the  difference  between  R.  Sim- 
eon and  the  rabbis  is  thus:  According  to  R.  Simeon,  title  is 
given  to  documents  and  to  all  their  contents  by  transferring; 
and  therefore  when  the  donee  returned  it  to  the  donor,  the  lat- 
ter acquired  title  to  it  and  to  its  contents.  But  according  to 
the  rabbis,  title  is  not  given  by  transferring;  hence  when  the 
donee  takes  possession  of  the  gift,  the  returning  of  the  docu- 
ment counts  nothing. 

The  rabbis  taught :  If  one  came  to  claim  a  field,  saying  that 
he  possesses  a  deed,  and  also  that  it  was  in  his  possession 
the  years  of  hazakah — according  to  Rabbi,  the  main  evidence 
should  be  the  deed  (if  he  cannot  show  it,  his  second  claim  of 
hazakah  must  not  be  considered);  and  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel 
maintains:  The  main  evidence  is  the  hazakah.  What  is  the 
point  of  their  difference?  When  R.  Dimi  came  from  Pales- 
tine, he  said:  They  differ  whether  title  is  given  to  documents 
by  transferring.  According  to  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel,  the 
transferring  does  not  give  title;  and  according  to  Rabbi,  it 
does.  Said  Abayi  to  him:  If  so,  you  differ  with  my  master, 
Rabba,  who  said  above :  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  holds :  That 
transferring  does  give  title.  And  he  answered:  And  what  if 
I  do  differ?  Why  not?  Rejoined  Abayi:  I  mean  to  say  that 
the  above  Boraitha  could  be  explained  only  as  done  by  my  mas- 
ter, but  not  otherwise.     And  then,  if  it  is  as  you  say,  R.  Simeon 


378  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

contradicts  himself.  Therefore,  said  Abayi,  the  point  of  the 
difference  between  Rabbi  and  R.  Simeon  b.  GamaHel  in  the 
Boraitha  just  cited  is:  In  case  it  happened  that  one  witness  who 
signed  the  deed  was  found  to  be  a  relative,  or  for  some  other 
reason  incompetent  to  be  a  witness.  And  it  is  the  same  point 
in  which  R.  Meir  and  R.  Elazar  differ.  Rabbi  holds  with  R. 
Elazar,  who  says  that  the  final  act  of  a  divorce,  or  anything 
else,  is  to  be  considered  done  by  the  witnesses  who  are  present 
at  the  transfer,  and  not  by  the  witnesses  who  sign  the  docu- 
ment. And  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  holds  with  R.  Meir,  who 
said :  The  final  act  is  considered  done  by  the  witnesses  who  sign 
the  document. 

But  did  not  R.  Abba  say :  Even  R.  Elazar  admitted  that  if 
there  was  any  forgery  in  the  document,  or  there  were  incom- 
petent witnesses,  the  transferring  is  not  considered,  even  when 
it  was  done  by  lawful  witnesses?  Therefore  said  Rabhina:  All 
agree  that  if  the  court  said,  "  We  have  investigated  the  testi- 
mony of  the  witnesses,  and  found  it  false,"  or  that  one  of  them 
was  incompetent,  the  document  is  invalid,  as  R.  Abba  declared. 
And  the  above  Tanaim  differ  concerning  a  document  without 
witnesses  at  all.  According  to  Rabbi,  who  holds  with  R.  Ela- 
zar, if  it  was  transferred  in  the  presence  of  witnesses,  the  act 
is  considered  final;  and  according  to  R.  Simeon,  who  holds 
with  R.  Meir,  it  is  not.  And  if  you  wish,  it  may  be  said  that  the 
point  of  their  difference  is:  Whether  a  document  which  the 
signer  admits  must  or  must  not  be  approved  by  the  court.  Ac- 
cording to  Rabbi,  it  must  not;  and  according  to  R.  Simeon,  it 
must.  But  have  we  not  heard  just  the  reverse  in  Middle  Gate, 
p.  1 1  ?  (The  rabbis  taught :)  Therefore  we  must  say  that  the 
point  of  their  difference  is:  If  one  is  obliged  to  convince  the 
court  of  all  the  evidence  one  mentioned  at  the  beginning  of 
the  trial,  or  it  is  sufBcient  if  he  convinces  it  of  one  part  of  it 
{i.e.,  if  he  said,  first,  "  My  evidence  is  a  deed,  and  also  hazakah," 
and  thereafter  he  was  able  to  convince  the  court  of  the  hazakah 
only).  According  to  Rabbi:  It  is  not  sufHcient  unless  he 
should  show  the  deed.  And  according  to  R.  Simeon:  The 
latter  evidence  suffices.  But  if  he  should  be  able  to  show  the 
deed,  then  all  agree  that  the  evidence  of  the  hazakah  would  not 
be  necessary  at  all.  And  this  is  similar  to  the  following  case: 
R.  Itz'hak  b.  Joseph  claimed  to  have  money  with  R.  Abba, 


TRACT   BABA    BATHRA    (LAST   GATE).  379 

and  came  to  complain  before  R.  Itz'hak  of  Naf'ha.  And  R. 
Abba  claimed:  I  paid  you  in  the  presence  of  A  and  B.  Said 
R.  Itz'hak  (of  Naf'ha)  to  him:  Bring,  then,  A  and  B — they 
shall  testify.  Said  he  to  him:  Am  I  not  to  be  trusted,  even 
if  they  do  not  appear?  Is  it  not  a  Halakha:  If  one  borrowed 
money  in  the  presence  of  witnesses,  it  is  not  necessary  for  the 
borrower  that  he  shall  pay  him  in  the  presence  of  witnesses? 
Rejoined  the  former :  I  hold  with  the  Halakha  which  was  said 
by  you,  master,  in  the  name  of  R.  Ada  b.  Ahaba,  quoting  Rabh : 
If  one  says,  "  I  paid  you  in  the  presence  of  A  and  B,"  it  is  neces- 
sary for  him  that  A  and  B  shall  come  and  testify.  Said  R,  Abba 
again:  But  did  not  R.  Giddle  say  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  The 
Halakha  prevails  with  Rabban  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel?  And  even 
Rabh,  his  opponent,  meant  with  his  statement  only  to  make 
his  evidence  clear  before  the  court  (but  not  because  the  law  dic- 
tates so)?  And  R.  Itz'hak  answered:  I  also  mean  you  shall 
make  your  evidence  clear  before  the  court,  as  I  hold  with 
Rabha ;  and  if  you  are  not  able  to  do  so,  you  must  pay. 

MISHNA  VI. :  If  one  has  paid  a  part  of  his  debt,  accord- 
ing to  R.  Jehudah,  the  promissory  note  must  be  changed  (i.e., 
the  old  note  must  be  torn,  and  a  new  one  made  for  the  balance). 
According  to  R.  Jose :  The  lender  has  to  give  a  receipt  for  the 
amount  paid.  Said  R.  Jehudah:  Then,  according  to  you,  the 
borrower  must  watch  his  receipt  so  that  it  shall  not  be  con- 
sumed by  mice.  Answered  R.  Jose :  Yea !  This  is  better  for 
the  lender,  as  if  it  should  be  a  difificulty  for  the  borrower  to 
watch  the  receipt  he  will  pay  the  whole  debt  sooner;  and  we 
must  not  impair  the  right  of  the  lender. 

GEMARA :  Said  R.  Huna  in  the  name  of  Rabh :  The  Hala- 
kha prevails  neither  with  R.  Jehudah  nor  with  R.  Jose,  but  the 
court  must  tear  the  first  note  and  write  him  another  one  with 
the  same  date  as  the  first.  Said  R.  Na'hman,  according  to 
others  R.  Jeremiah  b.  Abba,  to  R.  Huna :  If  Rabh  were  aware 
of  the  following  Boraitha :  "  The  witnesses  tear  the  note,  and 
write  for  him  another  one  with  the  same  date  as  the  first,"  he 
would  retract  from  his  statement  that  this  must  be  done  by  the 
court.  And  he  answered :  He  was  aware  of  this  Boraitha,  and 
nevertheless  he  did  not  retract,  for  the  reason  that  only  the 
court  has  the  power  to  collect  money,  which  therefore  may  tear 
and  write  another  one  with  the  former  date,  but  not  witnesses 


380  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

who  have  done  the  message  they  were  ordered  to,  as  they  have 
no  right  to  do  the  same  again  without  a  new  order.  Is  that  so  ? 
Did  not  R.  Jehudah  say  in  the  name  of  Rabh:  If  a  deed  was 
lost,  witnesses  may  write  another  one,  even  if  this  occurred  ten 
times,  to  one  field.  Said  R.  Joseph:  Rabh  meant  a  deed  of 
gift.  And  Rabha  said:  Rabh  meant  a  document  without  any 
responsibiHty  of  the  estate  for  other  claims. 

Where  is  to  be  found  the  Boraitha  cited  above,  of  which 
Rabh  was  aware?  It  is  thus:  If  one's  debt  was  a  thousand 
zuz  on  a  document,  and  he  paid  five  hundred,  the  witnesses 
may  tear  the  document  and  write  another  one  for  five  hundred, 
of  the  date  of  the  old  one.  So  is  the  decree  of  R.  Jehudah. 
R.  Jose,  however,  says:  The  document  of  the  thousand  re- 
mains, and  a  receipt  for  five  hundred  must  be  given  to  the  bor- 
rower. And  for  two  reasons  it  was  said  that  a  receipt  should 
be  written  and  handed  to  the  borrower:  first,  because  he 
should  be  compelled  to  pay  as  soon  as  possible ;  and,  secondly, 
the  debt  should  be  counted  from  the  first  date.  But  does  not 
R.  Jehudah  also  say  that  a  new  document  should  be  written 
with  the  same  date  as  that  which  was  torn?  So  said  R.  Jose 
to  R.  Jehudah :  If  you  say  that  the  document  should  be  written 
from  the  first  date,  then  I  differ  with  you  only  in  one  thing — 
concerning  the  receipt;  and  if  you  think  that  the  document 
should  be  written  from  the  date  on  which  a  part  was  paid,  then 
I  differ  with  you  in  both. 

The  rabbis  taught :  If  the  document  was  written  at  the  date 
used  by  the  government,  and  such  a  date  fell  on  a  Sabbath  or 
on  the  Day  of  Atonement,  on  which  it  is  prohibited  for  an 
Israelite  to  write,  this  note  is  to  be  considered  written  with  a 
later  date,  which  is  valid.  So  is  the  decree  of  R.  Jehudah. 
But  according  to  R.  Jose,  it  is  invalid.  Said  R.  Jehudah  to 
him :  Did  not  such  a  case  come  before  you  in  Cepphoris,  and 
you  made  it  valid?  And  he  answered:  I  did  so  only  with  a 
case  similar  to  that  about  which  we  are  discussing,  because, 
as  the  date  fell  on  a  Sabbath,  it  is  highly  probable  that  the 
document  was  of  a  later  date;  but  in  other  cases,  where  such  a 
supposition  has  no  basis,  I  do  not  agree  with  you.  But  what 
answer  is  this?  R.  Jehudah  also  claimed  that  the  case  hap- 
pened to  be  before  R.  Jose  in  Cepphoris.  Said  R.  Pdath :  All 
agree  that  if  the  date  of  the  document  was  examined  and  found 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  381 

to  fall  on  a  Sabbath,  or  on  the  Day  of  Atonement,  it  must  be 
considered  as  with  a  later  date,  and  it  is  valid.  In  what  they 
do  differ  is :  A  document  which  is  doubtful,  if  written  with  an 
earlier  or  a  later  date.  Acording  to  R.  Jehudah,  who  holds  that 
in  case  of  payment  no  receipt  is  given,  but  the  document  itself 
must  be  returned,  it  is  valid,  because  it  cannot  do  any  harm  to 
any  one  by  being  collectible  twice.  And  according  to  R.  Jose, 
who  holds  that  for  a  payment  in  part  the  document  must  not  be 
returned,  and  only  a  receipt  is  furnished,  it  is  invalid,  because 
he  can  collect  with  it  the  whole  amount,  as  the  receipt  is  in  the 
hands  of  the  borrower.  Said  R.  Huna  b.  Jehoshua:  Even 
according  to  them  who  say  that  a  receipt  may  be  written,  it 
is  only  if  a  part  or  a  half  was  paid ;  but  for  the  whole  amount 
no  receipt  is  written,  but  he  must  return  him  the  note;  and  if 
lost,  he  loses  his  money. 

(Says  the  Gemara :)  In  reality  it  is  not  so,  as  a  receipt  may 
be  written  even  on  the  whole  amount ;  as  it  happened  with  R. 
Itz'hak  b.  Joseph,  who  had  money  with  R.  Abba,  and  when  he 
demanded  his  money,  R.  Abba  demanded  his  promissory  note. 
And  R.  Itz'hak  answered :  The  note  is  lost,  and  I  will  give  you 
a  receipt.  And  he  answered :  There  are  both  Rabh  and  Samuel 
who  taught  that  we  do  not  write  a  receipt.  And  when  this  case 
came  before  R.  Hanina  b.  Papi,  he  said:  Rabh  and  Samuel 
were  so  beloved  by  us  that  if  some  would  bring  the  earth  of 
their  graves  we  would  keep  it  always  before  our  eyes ;  but  not- 
withstanding this,  there  are  both  R.  Johanan  and  Resh  Lakish 
who  decided  that  a  receipt  should  be  given ;  and  the  same  was 
said  by  Rabbin  when  he  came  from  Palestine  in  the  name  of  R. 
Hah.  Common  sense  also  dictates  so;  as  how  can  it  be  sup- 
posed that  if  the  creditor  lost  the  promissory  note  the  debtor 
may  consume  the  whole  amount  and  enjoy  himself?  Abayi  op- 
posed: But  after  your  theory  that  a  receipt  is  to  be  written, 
how  is  it  if  the  receipt  is  lost — should  the  lender  collect  the 
money  again  and  enjoy  himself?  Said  Rabha  to  him:  Yea! 
So  is  the  law,  as  we  read  in  the  Scriptures :  "  The  borrower 
is  a  servant  to  the  lender"  [Prov.  xxii.  7].  Said  R.  Yema, 
according  to  others  R.  Jeremiah  of  Diphthi,  to  R.  Kahna: 
What  is  the  basis  of  our  custom  that  we  write  documents  with 
later  dates,  and  we  also  write  receipts?  And  he  answered: 
That  which  R.  Abba  said  to  his  scribe:  When  it  shall  happen 


382  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

that  you  have  to  write  a  document  with  a  later  date,  you  must 
write  as  follows:  This  document  was  postdated  by  us  for  a 
certain  reason,  and  is  dated  not  with  the  date  it  was  ordered, 
but  of  to-day.     Said  R.  Ashi  to  R.  Kahna:  However,  in  our 
day  and  in  our  country  we  do  not  act  likewise.     It  is  since  R. 
Safras  said  to  his  scribe:  Should  you  have  to  write  a  receipt 
for  a  lost  promissory  note,  then,  if  you  are  aware  of  the  date 
the  promissory  note  was  given,  you  must  write:  "  The  money 
which  was  due  according  to  the  note  written  on  such  and  such 
a  date  was  returned  to  the  lender."     And  if  you  do  not  know 
the  exact  date,  you  must  write :  "  The  money  due  on  a  note  of 
so  and  so,  to  so  and  so,  was  paid,"  not  mentioning  the  date  at 
all;  and  then,  if  the  note  should  appear  again,  it  will  be  of  no 
value.     Said  Rabhina  to  R.  Ashi,  and  according  to  others  R. 
Ashi  to  R.  Kahna:  But  why  is  it  not  customary  in  our  time 
to  do  so,  as  we  write  documents  with  later  dates  without  men- 
tioning that  they  are  postdated,  and  receipts  with  the  date 
of  payment,  and  we  do  mention  the  date  of  the  document? 
And  he  answered :  The  rabbis  enacted :  One  shall  do  so  for  his 
own  sake;  but  if  one  does  not  care  to  do  so,  it  will  be  his  own 
fault  if  he  should  suffer  damage.     Said  Rabba  b.  Ashila  to  the 
scribes:  If  you  should  have  to  write  a  deed  of  gift,  or  deeds  in 
which  the  seller  does  not  take  the  responsibility  of  the  estate 
for  the  future,  you  shall  do  as  follows:  If  you  remember  the 
date  when  the  donor  or  the  seller  told  you  in  the  presence  of 
witnesses  to  do  so,  you  shall  write  that  date;  and  if  you  do 
not  recollect  the  exact  date,  you  may  write  the  current  date, 
and  it  will  not  be  considered  false.      Rabh  told  his  scribes, 
and  the  same  did  R.  Huna:  When  you  are  writing  a  docu- 
ment in  the  city  of  Shili,  although  you  were  ordered  to  do  so 
in  the  city  of  Hini,  you  must  write  in  the  document  the  city 
in  which  you  are  doing  it,  and  not  the  city  where  you  were 
ordered. 

Rabha  said :  If  one  holds  a  promissory  note  for  a  hundred 
zuz,  and  requests  that  it  shall  be  rewritten  in  two  notes,  each 
of  fifty  zuz,  his  request  is  to  be  refused — for  the  sake  of  both 
the  lender  and  the  borrower :  for  the  lender  it  is  better  to  have 
one  document,  as,  should  it  happen  that  he  pay  the  half,  he  will 
give  him  a  receipt,  which  the  borrower  will  have  to  watch,  and 
therefore  he  will  hasten  to  pay  his  debt ;  and  for  the  borrower 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  383 

it  is  also  better,  as  the  law  of  a  document  paid  in  part  is,  that 
the  lender  must  take  an  oath  (and  in  case  he  is  lacking  cash  the 
lender  will  give  him  time  rather  than  take  an  oath).  And  he 
said  again :  If  one  has  two  notes  of  fifty  each,  and  he  requests 
that  one  of  a  hundred  should  be  made  instead  of  the  two,  also 
to  this  request  no  attention  should  be  paid — and  also  for  the 
sake  of  both.  For  the  lender  it  is  better,  if  fifty  is  paid,  that 
the  other  document  should  remain  in  force,  so  that  he  will  not 
be  obliged  to  take  an  oath ;  and  also  for  the  borrower  it  is  bet- 
ter, having  paid  one  note,  that  he  shall  not  be  bound  to  watch 
the  receipt  for  the  other  half.  R.  Ashi  said :  If  the  lender  holds 
a  promissory  note  for  a  hundred  zuz,  and  orders  the  scribe  to 
write  for  him  another  note  for  fifty  zuz,  claiming  that  the  half 
was  paid  by  the  borrower,  he  must  not  be  listened  to;  nor  if 
he  asks  that  the  note  should  be  written  from  that  date,  or  from 
the  current  date.  Why  so?  It  is  to  be  feared  that  the  bor- 
rower has  paid  the  whole  amount,  and  to  the  demand  that  his 
note  should  be  returned,  he  was  answered,  "  It  was  lost,"  and 
furnished  him  with  a  receipt  instead ;  and  this  note  for  fifty  zuz 
he  will  collect  from  him,  claiming  that  this  note  has  nothing  to 
do  with  the  former  one. 

MISHNA  VII. :  If  there  were  two  brothers,  one  rich  and 
one  poor,  and  they  inherited  from  their  father  a  bath-house 
or  an  olive-press  house,  if  for  business,  they  must  share  equally ; 
but  if  for  private  use,  the  rich  one  may  say  to  the  poor,  "  You 
may  hire  slaves,  that  they  shall  heat  the  bath  for  your  use  " ; 
or,  "  You  may  buy  olives  and  press  them  for  your  private  use, 
but  I  shall  not  allow  you  to  do  this  for  a  stranger,  and  you  take 
the  benefit."  If  it  happen  that  in  one  city  two  persons  bear  one 
and  the  same  name,  they  cannot  give  promissory  notes  to  each 
other  nor  can  any  of  the  inhabitants  collect  on  a  promissory 
note  of  one  of  them.  If  there  were  found  a  promissory  note 
of  one  of  the  two  persons  by  some  one  which  is  marked  "  paid," 
the  other  may  also  claim :  My  note  is  paid.  How,  then,  shall 
they  do,  if  they  wish  that  their  documents  shall  be  of  value? 
Write  their  names  threefold — e.g.,  Joseph  b.  Simeon  b.  Jacob ; 
and  if  they  are  alike  in  this  also,  they  must  make  a  sign  to  their 
names  {e.g.,  if  one  is  shorter  than  the  other,  he  must  say,  "  the 
Little  " ;  and  if  they  are  both  of  equal  size,  if  one  is  a  priest,  he 
shall  write  "  Cohen  "). 


384  THE    BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

GEMARA:  There  was  a  promissory  note  which  came  to 
the  court  of  R.  Huna,  in  which  was  written :  "  I,  A,  the  son  of 
B,  have  borrowed  from  you  a  mana."  Said  R.  Huna :  "  From 
you "  can  be  any  one — even  the  Exilarch,  or  even  King 
Sabur.  Hence  it  may  be  that  some  one  lost  it,  and  you  found 
it.  Said  R.  Hisda  to  Rabba:  You  must  study  the  case,  as  in 
the  evening  R.  Huna  will  ask  you  how  to  decide  it.  He  had 
deliberated,  and  found  the  following  Boraitha :  A  divorce  which 
was  signed  by  witnesses,  but  there  was  no  date.  Said  Aba 
Saul :  If  the  divorce  reads :  "  I  divorced  her  this  day,"  it  is 
valid.  Hence  we  see  that  **  this  day  "  means  that  on  which  it 
was  given  out.  The  same  is  the  case  with  this  document; 
"  from  you  "  means  from  this  man  who  holds  it.  Said  Abayi 
to  him :  But  perhaps  Aba  Saul  holds  with  R.  Elazar,  who  holds 
that  the  final  act  of  the  witnesses  of  transfer  is  considered 
(therefore  he  makes  valid  such  a  divorce  as  must  be  delivered 
in  the  presence  of  lawful  witnesses).  But  in  our  case,  why 
should  it  not  be  feared  that  the  plaintiff  found  a  lost  note? 
And  he  answered :  That  such  a  supposition  is  not  to  be  taken 
into  consideration  may  be  inferred  from  our  Mishna,  which 
states:  If  there  are  two  persons  who  bear  one  and  the  same 
name,  they  cannot  give  promissory  notes  to  each  other,  nor 
to  any  of  the  inhabitants,  etc.  But  if  one  of  them  has  a  promis- 
sory note  from  one  of  the  inhabitants,  it  is  valid,  and  he  may 
collect.  Now,  why  is  it  not  to  be  feared  that  it  was  lost  by  the 
other  person  who  bears  the  same  name,  and  this  plaintiff  found 
it?  Hence  we  see  that  this  is  not  taken  into  consideration. 
Abayi,  however,  may  say  that  this  is  not  taken  into  considera- 
tion because  there  is  only  one  person  who  could  lose  it,  and  if 
so,  he  would  certainly  announce  his  loss;  but  in  other  cases, 
where  it  might  be  lost  by  any  one,  it  should  be  feared.  But 
is  there  not  a  Boraitha  which  states:  As  the  two  persons  who 
bear  the  same  name  cannot  collect  promissory  notes  from  each 
other,  so  also  cannot  one  of  them  collect  from  any  other  one? 
Hence  this  Boraitha  differs  with  our  Mishna.  And  what  is 
the  point  of  their  difference?  Whether  in  such  a  case  the 
plaintiff  has  to  bring  evidence.  The  Tana  of  the  Mishna  holds 
that  he  has  not ;  and  the  Tana  of  the  Boraitha  maintains  that 
he  has.  As  it  was  taught :  To  promissory  notes  title  is  given 
by   transferring.      However,   according   to  Abayi   the   holder 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  385 

of  them  must  bring  evidence  that  they  were  transferred  to  him. 
And  Rabha  said :  He  must  not. 

Said  Rabha:  I  infer  my  statement  from  the  following  Bo- 
raitha:  If  one  of  the  brothers  holds  a  promissory  note  from 
some  one,  claiming  that  his  father  or  his  brother  had  trans- 
ferred it  to  him,  it  is  for  him  to  bring  evidence.  Hence  we 
see  that  this  law  holds  good  only  concerning  brothers,  who 
usually  hinder  one  another,  and  claim  that  their  brother  took  it 
without  their  or  their  father's  consent;  but  in  all  other  cases 
no  evidence  is  needed.  Abayi,  however,  maintains:  On  the 
contrary,  this  Boraitha  comes  to  teach :  Lest  one  say  that  con- 
cerning brothers,  who  hinder  one  another  and  are  very  careful 
with  the  inheritance,  no  evidence  is  needed  for  the  one  who 
holds  the  document,  although  in  all  other  cases  it  is,  the  Bo- 
raitha came  to  state  that  it  is  not  so.  But  there  is  another  Bo- 
raitha: As  the  persons  who  bear  the  same  name  are  allowed  to 
take  promissory  notes  from  others,  so  they  may  take  from  each 
other.  And  what  is  the  point  of  their  difference?  Whether 
a  promissory  note  may  be  written  for  the  borrower  in  the  ab- 
sence of  the  lender.  The  Tana  of  our  Mishna  holds  that  this 
may  be  done.  Hence  one  of  the  two  persons  may  go  to  the 
scribe,  telling  him  that  he  wants  to  borrow  from  his  fellow- 
citizen,  who  bears  the  same  name,  some  money.  And  after  he 
receives  such  a  promissory  note,  he  may  claim  that  this  was 
given  by  the  other  to  him  ;  therefore  our  Mishna  says  that  they 
cannot  collect  from  each  other.  And  the  Tana  of  the  Boraitha 
holds :  The  promissory  note  must  not  be  furnished  to  the  bor- 
rower in  the  absence  of  the  lender.     Hence  there  is  no  fear. 

"  //  a  promissory  note  was  paid''  etc.  We  see,  because  a  re- 
ceipt was  found.  But  how  would  it  be  if  not?  The  promis- 
sory note  would  hold  good.  But  our  Mishna  states :  Nor  can 
any  of  the  inhabitants  collect.  Said  R.  Jeremiah :  It  speaks  of 
when  in  the  note  his  name  was  written  threefold ;  but  if  so,  let 
them  see  the  receipt,  to  whom  it  was  made  out.  Said  R. 
Hoseah :  It  speaks  of  when  it  was  written  threefold  in  the  note, 
but  not  in  the  receipt.  Abayi,  however,  said :  The  Mishna  is 
to  be  explained  thus :  If  there  was  found  among  the  borrower's 
documents  a  writing,  "  The  promissory  note  which  I  gave  to 
Joseph  b.  Simeon  is  paid,"  if  he  possess  such  from  the  other, 
both  are  considered  paid. 


386  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

"  To  write  their  names  threefold,''  etc.  There  is  a  Boraitha: 
If  both  were  priests,  they  must  write  their  names  fourfold — 
^•^•»  Joseph  b.  Jacob  b.  Itz'hak  b.  Abraham;  and  that  all  the 
four  names  should  be  alike  is  very  rare. 

MISHNA  VIII. :  If  one  (while  struggling  with  death)  says 
to  his  son :  "  A  promissory  note  among  the  notes  I  possess  is 
paid,  but  I  do  not  remember  which,"  all  of  them  are  to  be  con- 
sidered paid.  If,  however,  one  person  has  given  two  promis- 
sory notes,  the  larger  amount  is  considered  paid,  and  the  smaller 
amount  not. 

GEMARA :  Rabha  said :  If  one  says :  "  A  promissory  note 
from  you,  which  I  possess,  is  paid,"  and  there  were  two  from 
him,  the  larger  amount  is  considered  paid,  and  the  smaller 
amount  not ;  if,  however,  "  The  debt  you  owe  me  is  paid,"  all  the 
promissory  notes  from  him  which  are  in  his  hands  are  consid- 
ered paid.  Said  Rabhina  to  him :  According  to  your  theory,  if 
one  says :  "  My  field  is  sold  to  you,"  does  it  mean  that  the  largest 
he  has  is  sold?  And  if  he  said,  "  The  field  I  possess  is  sold  to 
you,"  does  it  mean  all  the  fields?  There  it  is  different,  as  it  is 
for  the  plaintiff  to  bring  evidence ;  and  if  the  buyer  so  claims, 
he  has  to  bring  evidence  to  what  he  claims.  But  here  the 
creditor  is  the  plaintiff;  and  if  he  says,  "  Your  debt  is  paid,"  it 
is  the  best  evidence  that  all  the  notes  are  paid. 

MISHNA  IX. :  If  one  made  a  loan  to  his  neighbor  through 
a  surety,  he  must  not  collect  first  from  the  surety,  unless  the 
borrower  does  not  possess  any  estate ;  however,  if  the  stipula- 
tion was  made  that  he  may  collect  from  whom  he  pleases,  then 
he  may  start  with  the  surety. 

R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel  (however)  is  of  the  opinion  that  even 
in  such  a  case  the  lender  may  not  start  with  the  surety,  unless 
the  borrower  does  not  possess  anything.  And  he  used  to  say 
thus :  If  one  made  himself  a  surety  to  a  woman  for  her  marriage 
contract,  and  thereafter  the  husband  was  about  to  divorce  her, 
the  court  should  compel  him  to  vow  that  from  the  time  divorced 
he  should  not  derive  any  benefit  from  his  former  wife,  which 
means  not  to  remarry  her,  for  fear  that  the  husband  and  his  wife 
may  have  made  a  bargain  to  collect  the  money  for  the  marriage 
contract  from  the  surety,  and  thereafter  he  will  remarry  her. 

GEMARA :  And  why  should  not  the  creditor  collect  from 
the  surety?     Both  Rabba  and  R.  Joseph  said:  The  surety  may 


TRACT   BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  387 

claim:  I  have  given  bail  for  the  money  in  case  the  borrower 
should  die  or  run  away,  but  not  if  I  deliver  him  to  you.  R. 
Na'hman  opposed,  saying:  Such  is  the  Persian  law.  But  this 
is  not  so,  as  the  Persians  collect  from  the  surety  only,  even 
when  the  borrower  possesses  estates?  R.  Na'hman  meant  to 
say :  Such  a  law  is  similar  to  a  Persian  law,  for  which  they  give 
no  reason,  and  therefore  he  says  the  Mishna  meant:  He  shall 
not  summon  the  surety  unless  he  has  already  summoned  the 
borrower.  So  also  we  have  learned  in  the  following  Boraitha: 
If  one  made  a  loan  to  his  neighbor  through  a  surety,  he  must 
not  summon  the  surety  first,  unless  the  stipulation  was  that  he 
might  collect  from  whom  he  pleased.  R.  Huna  said :  Whence 
do  we  deduce  that  a  surety  is  obliged  to  pay?  From  [Gen. 
xliii.  9] :  "I  will  be  a  surety  for  him."  R.  Hisda  opposed,  say- 
ing: He  was  not  a  surety  only,  but  also  a  receiver,  as  it  reads 
farther  on,  "  from  my  hand  shalt  thou  require  him,"  and  also 
[ibid.  xlii.  37],  "deliver  him  into  my  hand,"  etc.  Therefore 
said  R.  Itz'hak:  From  [Prov.  xx.  16]:  "Take  away  his  gar- 
ment, because  he  hath  become  surety  for  a  stranger."  (Here 
is  repeated  from  Middle  Gate,  p.  305.     See  there.) 

Amimar  said:  Whether  a  surety  has  to  pay  or  not,  R.  Je- 
budah  and  R.  Jose  dififer.  According  to  the  latter,  who  holds 
that  an  asmachtha  gives  title,  he  is  responsible ;  and  according 
to  the  former,  who  holds  that  an  asmachtha  does  not  give  title, 
the  surety  is  not  obliged  to  pay.  Said  R.  Ashi  to  him:  But 
is  it  not  a  fact  that  a  surety  is  responsible,  although  it  is  now 
taken  as  a  rule  that  an  asmachtha  does  not  give  title?  There- 
fore said  R.  Ashi:  Because  of  the  pleasure  that  the  lender 
trusted  him  on  his  word,  the  surety  made  up  his  mind  that  the 
lender  should  be  paid  under  all  circumstances ;  and  such  a  case 
it  is  not  considered  as  an  asmachtha,  but  as  a  debt  which  lies 
upon  himself. 

"  That  he  may  collect  from  whom  he  pleases,"  etc.  Rabba  b. 
b.  Hana  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  said :  Even  then,  if  the  bor- 
rower possess  estates,  he  must  not  collect  from  the  surety. 
But  does  not  the  latter  part  of  the  Mishna  state  that  Simeon  b. 
Gamaliel  said  so ;  from  which  it  is  to  be  inferred  that  the  first 
Tana  holds  that  he  may  collect  from  the  surety  in  any  event? 
The  Mishna  is  not  complete,  and  should  read  thus :  If  one  made 
a  loan  to  his  neighbor  through  a  surety,  he  must  not  collect 


388  THE   BABYLONIAN   TALMUD. 

through  the  surety  unless  he  had  made  the  stipulation  that  he 
might  collect  from  whom  he  pleased.  But  even  then  he  col- 
lects from  the  surety  in  case  the  borrower  does  not  possess 
any  estate;  but  if  he  does,  he  must  collect  from  the  borrower 
first,  and  if  it  should  not  be  sufficient,  then  from  the  surety. 
If,  however,  the  surety  was  also  the  receiver  of  the  loan  for  the 
borrower,  then  he  may  collect  from  the  surety,  although  the 
borrower  possesses  estate.  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel,  however, 
maintains  that  even  then  he  collects  from  the  borrower  if  he 
possesses  any  estate.  (In  the  name  of  R.  Johanan  was  said 
(First  Gate,  p.  156):  In  that  case  the  Halakha  does  not  prevail 
with  R.  Simeon  b.  Gamaliel.) 

R.  Huna  said :  If  the  surety  said :  "  Lend  to  this  man, 
and  I  am  the  surety  " ;  or,  "  I  will  pay  " ;  or,  "  Count  the  debt 
to  me  " ;  or,  "  Lend  him,  and  I  will  give  to  you  " — all  these 
versions  are  considered  surety.  If,  however,  he  said  to  him: 
"  Give  to  him,  and  consider  me  as  receiving  the  money  " ;  or, 
"  Give  to  him,  and  I  will  pay  ";  or,  "  Count  the  debt  to  me  "; 
or,  "  Give  to  him,  and  I  will  return  to  you  " — all  these  versions 
are  considered  receipt.  {I.e.,  if  he  said :  "  Borrow  from  him," 
it  means  that  he  should  be  the  debtor:  "  In  case  he  shall  not 
pay,  I  will."  But  if  he  says,  "  Give  to  him,"  then  the  bor- 
rower is  not  considered  here  at  all,  as  the  lender  gave  by  his 
order.) 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question:  How  is  it  if  he 
said,  "  Lend  him,  and  count  me  as  the  receiver  " ;  or,  "  Give  ^o 
him,  and  I  will  be  surety"?  According  to  R.  Itz'hak:  In  the 
first  case,  in  which  he  remarked,  "  I  will  be  the  receiver,"  he 
must  be  so  considered,  although  he  said,  "  Lend  him  "  ;  and 
in  the  second  case,  in  which  he  said,  "  I  will  be  surety,"  he  is  to 
be  so  considered,  although  he  said,  "  Give  to  him."  R.  Hisda, 
however,  maintains :  In  either  case  he  is  considered  a  receiver, 
unless  he  said,  "  Lend  him,  and  I  will  be  the  surety."  And 
according  to  Rabha :  All  the  versions  mentioned  above  are  con- 
sidered surety,  unless  he  said,  "  Give  to  him,  and  I  will  return 
to  you." 

Said  Mar  b.  Amimar  to  R.  Ashi:  So  said  my  father:  If 
the  expression  was,  "  give  to  him,  and  I  will  return  you,"  then 
has  the  lender  nothing  to  do  with  the  borrower.  (Says  the 
Gemara:)  In  reality  it  is  not  so.     The  lender  may  collect  the 


TRACT    BABA   BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  389 

money  from  the  borrower,  unless  the  surety  took  the  money 
from  the  hand  of  the  lender  and  delivered  it  to  the  borrower. 

There  was  a  judge  who  transferred  the  estate  of  the  bor- 
rower to  the  lender,  before  the  lender  had  demanded  his  money 
from  the  borrower,  and  R.  Hanin  b.  R.  Yeba  removed  the 
judge.  Said  Rabha:  Who  so  wise  to  do  such  a  thing,  if  not 
R.  Hanin  b.  R.  Yeba,  as  he  holds  that  the  estates  of  the  debtor 
are  his  surety;  and  our  Mishna  states:  He  must  not  collect 
from  the  surety,  nor  must  he  demand  his  debt  first  from  the 
surety? 

There  was  a  surety  for  orphans  who  had  paid  the  lender 
before  he  notified  the  orphans  {i.e.,  he  was  surety  for  the  father 
of  the  orphans,  who  borrowed  some  money,  and  after  his  death 
he  paid  the  lender  from  his  own  pocket,  and  then  summoned 
the  orphans  to  pay  him  from  their  estates).  And  R.  Papa  de- 
cided :  To  pay  a  debt  for  which  there  is  no  document  is  a  meri- 
torious act,  to  which  orphans  who  are  not  of  age  cannot  be 
compelled;  and  therefore  the  surety  must  wait  with  his  claim 
until  they  shall  become  of  age.  R.  Huna  b.  Jehoshua,  how- 
ever, maintains :  The  reason  why  the  orphans  have  not  to  pay 
until  they  shall  become  of  age  is,  because  they  are  not  aware 
that  the  deceased  had  not  paid  such  a  debt.  And  the  difference 
of  the  two  statements  is,  in  case  the  deceased  had  confessed 
before  his  death  that  he  had  not  yet  repaid  the  debt.  Then, 
according  to  R.  Huna,  the  orphans  may  be  compelled  to  pay; 
but  not,  according  to  R.  Papa. 

A  message  was  sent  from  Palestine :  If  one  was  put  under 
the  ban  because  he  declined  to  pay  his  debt,  and  he  died  while 
still  under  the  ban,  he  is  to  be  considered  as  if  he  had  confessed 
before  his  death  that  he  had  not  yet  paid,  and  the  orphans  have 
to  pay,  as  the  Halakha  prevails  in  accordance  with  R.  Huna 
b.  Jehoshua. 

An  objection  was  raised  from  the  following :  If  the  promis- 
sory note  of  the  deceased  was  in  the  hands  of  the  surety,  who 
claims  to  have  paid  the  lender,  and  he  demands  the  debt  from 
the  orphans'  estates,  he  cannot  collect  (for  perhaps  the  lender 
lost  it,  and  he  found  it).  If,  however,  there  was  marked  in  the 
note  by  the  lender  that  he  has  received  the  debt  from  the  surety, 
he  may.  Hence  this  is  correct  only  with  R.  Huna's  statement ; 
but  it  contradicts  R.  Papa,  who  said:  The  orphans  must  not 


39©  THE    BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

be  compelled  to  pay  in  such  a  case.  R.  Papa  may  say:  When 
the  lender  wrote  that  he  received  the  money  from  the  surety 
and  transferred  the  promissory  note  to  him,  it  is  no  longer  con- 
sidered a  debt  without  a  document,  the  payment  of  which  is 
only  a  meritorious  act,  to  which  the  orphans  cannot  be  com- 
pelled; as  for  that  purpose  the  lender  marked,  "I  have  re- 
ceived from  you  that  from  this  date  the  promissory  note  should 
be  considered  as  if  given  by  the  deceased  to  the  surety." 

There  was  a  surety  for  a  deceased  debtor  to  a  heathen,  who 
paid  the  heathen  before  he  had  demanded  his  debt  from  the 
orphans.  Said  R.  Mordecai  to  R.  Ashi:  So  said  Abimi  of 
Hagrunia  in  the  name  of  Rabha :  Even  according  to  him  who 
holds  that  it  may  be  doubted  whether  the  deceased  had  paid 
his  debt  before  dying,  it  is  only  when  the  creditor  was  a  Jew, 
but  not  when  he  w^as  a  heathen,  who  usually  demands  the  debt 
from  the  surety  and  not  from  the  debtor.  Answered  R.  Ashi : 
It  is  just  the  contrary.  Even  according  to  him  who  said  that 
it  must  not  be  doubted  whether  the  debt  was  paid,  it  is  only 
concerning  a  Jew;  but  concerning  a  heathen,  whose  law  dic- 
tates that  they  have  to  collect  the  debt  from  the  surety,  it  is  to 
be  feared  that  if  the  surety  should  not  have  in  his  hand  an 
amount  which  would  cover  the  debt  in  case  it  should  not  be 
paid,  he  would  not  consent  to  be  a  surety;  and  therefore  he 
cannot  collect  from  the  orphans  except  by  suing  them  when 
they  shall  be  of  age. 

"  If  one  made  himself  surety  to  a  woman  for  a  marriage  con- 
tract" etc.  Moses  b.  Azoi  was  a  surety  for  the  marriage  con- 
tract of  his  daughter-in-law,  whose  husband  was  R.  Huna,  who 
was  a  scholar,  and  became  thereafter  very  poor  and  was  un- 
able to  support  his  family.  Said  Abayi :  Is  there  not  one  who 
shall  advise  R.  Huna  to  divorce  his  wife,  and  she  shall  go  to  his 
father,  who  is  rich,  and  collect  the  marriage  contract,  and 
thereafter  R.  Huna  shall  remarry  her?  Said  Rabha  to  him: 
But  does  not  our  Mishna  state :  "  He  shall  vow  not  to  derive 
any  benefit,"  etc.?  Rejoined  Abayi:  Must,  then,  every  one 
who  wishes  to  divorce  his  wife  go  to  the  court?  Finally  it  was 
developed  that  R.  Huna  was  a  priest,  who  could  not  remarry 
his  wife  in  case  of  being  divorced.  Said  Abayi:  This  is  what 
people  say:  Poverty  follows  in  the  path  of  the  poor.  But 
did  he  not  say  above  (p.  304),  that  he  who  gives  such  advice 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA    (LAST    GATE).  391 

is  called  a  shrewd  knave?  In  this  case,  where  the  surety  was 
his  father  and  the  son  was  a  scholar,  it  is  different.  But  was 
not  the  father  a  surety  only,  who  has  not  to  pay  (as  will  be  ex- 
plained farther  on)  ?  He  was  also  a  receiver.  But  even  then, 
it  is  correct  according  to  him  who  holds  that  a  receiver  must 
pay,  even  in  case  the  groom  possessed  nothing  at  the  time  of 
marriage.  But  what  can  be  said  to  him  who  said  that  in  such 
a  case  even  a  receiver  is  not  to  be  compelled  to  pay?  It  may 
be  said  that  when  his  father  became  surety  the  son  was  still  in 
the  possession  of  some  estates;  and  if  you  wish,  it  may  be  said 
that  with  a  father  it  is  different.  As  it  was  taught :  A  surety 
in  a  marriage  contract,  all  agree  that  he  has  not  to  pay.  A 
receiver  from  a  creditor,  all  agree  he  must  pay;  but  concern- 
ing a  receiver  in  a  marriage  contract  and  a  surety  from  a 
creditor  the  rabbis  differ.  According  to  one :  If  the  borrower 
possessed  estates  at  the  time  the  loan  was  made,  the  receiver 
must  pay,  as  it  may  be  supposed  that  he  obliged  himself  with 
all  his  mind,  as  he  had  nothing  to  fear;  and  the  other  holds: 
He  must  pay  in  any  event.  The  Halakha,  however,  prevails: 
A  surety  must  pay  in  any  event,  unless  he  was  a  surety  to  a 
marriage  contract,  even  in  case  the  husband  was  in  possession 
of  estates  at  the  time  he  became  surety.  And  the  reason  is, 
because  it  may  be  supposed  that  he  did  so  as  a  meritorious  act, 
in  order  that  the  couple  should  not  be  parted;  and  he  did  no 
harm  to  the  bride,  as,  if  the  husband  had  money,  he  would  pay. 
R.  Huna  said:  A  sick  person  who  has  consecrated  all  his 
estates,  and  at  the  same  time  said,  "  So  and  so  has  a  mana  with 
me,"  he  may  be  trusted,  as  it  is  to  be  assumed  that  one  would 
not  use  deceit  against  the  sanctuary.  R.  Na'hman  opposed: 
Is  it,  then,  usual  that  one  should  use  deceit  against  his  children? 
And,  nevertheless,  both  Rabh  and  Samuel  say:  If  a  sick  per- 
son said,  "  So  and  so  has  a  mana  with  me,"  if  he  added,  "  Give 
to  him,"  he  is  to  be  listened  to ;  but  if  he  did  not,  he  is  not  to 
be  listened  to.  Hence  we  see  that,  if  he  did  not  say  "  Give," 
his  statement  that  so  and  so  has  a  mana  with  him  is  considered 
as  if  he  did  so  for  the  purpose  that,  should  he  be  cured,  his  chil- 
dren should  not  think  him  very  rich.  Why  should  not  the  same 
be  applied  in  the  case  of  the  sanctuary?  R.  Huna  speaks  in 
case  there  was  a  promissory  note,  and  only  the  sick  person 
admitted  that  the  note  was  a  right  one.     If  so,  then  we  must 


392  THE    BAiiVLONlAN   TALMUD. 

say  that  the  statements  of  Rabh  and  Samuel  applied  even  when 
there  was  no  promissory  note.  But  if  so,  it  was  a  loan  without 
a  document,  and  both  Rabh  and  Samuel  said :  On  such  a  loan 
one  cannot  collect,  neither  from  the  heirs  nor  from  the  buyers? 
Therefore  said  R.  Na'hman:  In  both  cases  it  speaks  of  when 
there  was  a  document:  one  case  treats  of  when  the  note  was 
approved,  and  the  other  when  it  was  not.  And  then  if  he  sai</ 
*  'Give,"  he  approves  the  note,  and  is  to  be  listened  to;  and  if 
he  does  not  say  "  Give,"  the  note  remains  unapproved. 

Rabba  said :  A  sick  person  who  said,  "  A  has  a  mana  with 
me,"  and  thereafter  the  orphans  claimed  that  they  have  paid, 
they  are  to  be  trusted.  If,  however,  he  said,  "  Give  a  mana 
to  A,"  and  the  orphans  say  they  have  paid,  they  are  not  to  be 
trusted.  But  is  not  common  sense  against  such  a  theory?  It 
seems  just  the  contrary.  If  the  father  said,  "  Give,"  and  the 
orphans  said  "We  did  so,"  they  may  be  trusted;  but  if  the 
father  said,  "  A  had  a  mana  with  me,"  it  may  be  supposed 
they  did  not  hasten  to  pay  him,  and  why  should  they  be  trusted? 
Therefore  if  such  a  statement  was  made  by  Rabba,  it  must  be 
thus:  If  a  sick  person  said,  "  A  has  a  mana  with  me,"  and  the 
orphans  thereafter  said  that  after  deliberating  the  deceased 
said,  "  I  have  paid  it  already,"  they  may  be  trusted,  as  it  is 
probable  the  deceased  remembered  that  he  had  returned  it. 
But  if  the  sick  person  says,  "  Give  a  mana,"  and  thereafter  the 
orphans  claim  the  same  as  is  said  above,  they  are  not  to  be 
trusted ;  as  if  it  were  for  deliberation,  he  would  not  say  "  give." 

Rabha  questioned:  If  a  sick  person  had  confessed  (i.e.,  his 
creditor  came  to  him,  saying,  "  You  owe  me  a  mana,"  and  he 
said,  "  yea  "),  must  the  sick  person  also  add  "  yea,"  that  those 
who  are  present  shall  be  witnesses,  as  is  required  in  such  a  case 
of  one  in  good  health,  or  not?  And  it  is  also  a  question 
whether  he  must  say  to  the  witnesses :  "  Mark  this  in  writ- 
ing " ;  and  also  whether  a  sick  person  has  the  right  to  say, 
"  It  was  only  a  joke,"  or,  "  This  is  out  of  the  question."  Con- 
cerning one  who  is  dying,  after  deliberating,  he  came  to  the 
conclusion  that  all  these  are  not  necessary,  as  there  is  a  rule: 
The  words  of  a  dying  person  are  to  be  considered  as  written 
?.nd  delivered  to  whom  it  concerns. 

MISHNA  X. :  If  one  borrows  money  on  a  promissorv  note, 
the  lender  has  a  right  to  collect  from  encumbered  estates;  and 


TRACT   BABA    BATHRA   (LAST   GATE).  393 

if  without  a  note,  but  in  presence  of  witnesses,  the  lender  may 
collect  from  unencumbered  only.  If  A  holds  a  writing  that  B 
owes  him  money  (not  a  promissory  note,  which  usually  must 
be  drawn  by  witnesses),  he  collects  from  unencumbered  estates 
only.  A  surety  who  has  signed  his  name  after  the  signatures 
of  the  document  ("  I,  so  and  so,  am  a  surety  "),  the  lender  may 
collect  from  the  surety  from  unencumbered  estates  only  (as 
it  is  considered  a  verbal  surety,  as  there  were  no  witnesses  who 
testified  to  this). 

Such  a  case  happened  to  come  before  R.  Ishmael,  and  he 
decided  that  he  should  collect  from  free  estate.  Ben  Nanas, 
however,  maintains:  He  must  not  collect  from  any  estate. 
And  to  the  question  of  R.  Ishmael:  Why  so?  he  answered:  If 
it  happen  that  a  creditor  sees  his  debtor  in  the  market,  grapples 
him  by  the  throat,  and  one  passes  by  and  says,  "  Leave  him 
alone,  I  will  pay,"  he  is  nevertheless  free,  because  the  loan  was 
made  not  upon  his  surety.  The  same  is  the  case  here.  If, 
after  the  document  was  made  and  the  witnesses  signed  it,  he 
adds,  "  I  am  a  surety,"  he  is  not  considered  such,  as  he  was  a 
surety  when  the  loan  was  already  made.  Said  R.  Ishmael:  If 
one  wishes  to  become  wise,  he  shall  occupy  himself  with  the 
civil  law;  for  there  is  no  store  (of  wisdom)  in  the  entire  Law 
richer  than  it  (the  civil  law).  And  those  who  wish  to  study 
civil  law  may  take  lessons  of  Ben  Nanas. 

GEMARA:  Ula  said:  Biblically  there  is  no  difference  be- 
tween a  loan  on  a  document  and  by  word  of  mouth;  and  it 
should  be  collected  from  encumbered  estates.  Why  is  it  said 
that  on  a  verbal  one,  one  collects  from  free  estate  only?  Be- 
cause the  buyers  of  the  borrower  should  not  suffer  damage  (i.e., 
as  they  could  not  be  aware  of  a  thing  done  verbally).  But 
when  there  is  a  document,  it  is  their  own  fault  if  they  do  not 
investigate  before  they  buy.  Rabba,  however,  maintains  the 
contrary:  Both  loans  ought  to  be  collected  from  free  estates 
only;  as,  according  to  the  biblical  law,  the  estates  are  not 
mortgaged  even  if  there  is  a  document  (unless  it  is  so  written). 
But  why  did  the  rabbis  enact  that  a  document  collects  from 
encumbered  estate?  In  order  not  to  close  the  door  for  bor- 
rowers. For  a  verbal  loan,  however,  they  did  not  enact,  as 
it  is  not  known  to  the  people;  and  the  buyers  from  the  bor- 
rower could  not  know  there  was  a  loan. 


394  THE   BABYLONIAN    TALMUD. 

Did,  indeed,  Rabba  say  so?  Was  not  his  decision  [in  Chap- 
ter VIIL,  p.  274]  "  that  a  first-born  takes  a  double  share  in  the 
estate  collected  after  the  death  of  the  father  "  ?  Now  if  not 
mortgaged  biblically,  in  a  document  why  should  he  take  a 
double  share — to  which  he  is  not  entitled  in  movable  property 
or  money  collected  after  death?  And  lest  one  say  that  the 
names  of  Ula  and  Rabba  should  be  reversed  in  the  above  state- 
ments, this  would  not  hold  good,  as  we  have  heard  Ula  saying 
elsewhere  that  a  creditor  collects  biblically  from  the  worse 
estate  of  the  debtor.  Hence  we  see  that  Ula  holds  that  estates 
are  mortgaged  biblically,  (This  presents  no  dif^culty,  as  the 
cited  statement  of  Rabba  [in  Chapter  VIIL]  was  only  to  give 
the  reason  of  the  Palestinians;  but  he  himself  does  not  hold 
with  them.) 

Both  Rabh  and  Samuel  hold :  A  verbal  loan  is  not  collectible 
— neither  from  heirs  nor  from  buyers;  as,  biblically,  estates  are 
not  mortgaged  on  any  loan.  But  R.  Johanan  and  Resh  Lakish 
both  hold :  They  are  mortgaged,  and  therefore  a  loan  is  collect- 
ible— whether  from  heirs  or  from  buyers.  Said  R.  Papa:  The 
Halakha  prevails  that  a  verbal  loan  is  collectible  from. heirs, 
for  the  purpose  of  not  closing  the  door  to  borrowers;  but  is 
not  collectible  from  buyers,  who  could  not  know  of  the  exist- 
ence of  such  a  debt. 

"  //  A  holds  a  zvriting  .  .  .  from  unencumbered  estates," 
etc.  Rabba  b.  Nathan  questioned  R.  Johanan:  How  is  it  if 
this  writing  was  approved  by  the  court?  And  he  answered: 
Even  then,  the  same  is  the  case.  Rami  b.  Hama  objected 
from  a  Mishna  in  Tract  Gittin,  in  which  it  is  stated  that,  accord- 
ing to  R.  Elazar,  if  such  a  document,  without  witnesses,  was 
given  to  the  lender  in  the  presence  of  witnesses,  he  may  col- 
lect from  encumbered  estates?  The  case  is  different,  as  the 
writing  was  with  the  intention  of  transferring  it  in  the  presence 
of  witnesses ;  it  is  the  same  as  if  the  witnesses  had  signed  the 
document. 

"  A  surety  .  .  .  after  the  signatures,"  etc.  Said  Rabh : 
If  the  surety  signed  before  the  signatures,  it  may  be  collected 
from  encumbered  estates;  and  if  after,  from  unencumbered 
estates  only.  But  at  some  other  time  the  same  Rabh  said: 
Even  if  he  had  signed  his  name  before  the  signatures,  it  is  to  be 
collected  from  free  estates  only.     Hence  Rabh  contradicts  him- 


TRACT    BABA    BATHRA   (LAST    GATE).  395 

self.  This  presents  no  difficulty,  as  his  statement,  from  free 
estates  only,  speaks  of  when  the  surety  wrote,  e.g.,  "  B  is  a 
surety,"  which  does  not  make  it  clear  for  whom  he  is  a  surety ; 
and  the  witnesses  who  sigjied  their  names  after  him,  perhaps 
they  have  nothing  to  do  with  the  surety.  And  his  statement 
that  it  is  collectible  from  encumbered  estates  speaks  of  when 
there  was  written  after  the  text,  explaining  the  loan,  "  And  so 
and  so  is  the  surety,"  to  which  the  approval  was  by  the  wit- 
nesses signed  after  him.  And  the  same  was  said  by  R.  Jo- 
hanan. 

"  Such  a  case  came  before  R.  Ishmael,"  etc.  Said  Rabba  b.  b. 
Hana  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan :  Although  R.  Ishmael  praised 
Ben  Nanas,  the  Halakha  prevails  with  R.  Ishmael. 

The  schoolmen  propounded  a  question :  How  is  it  if  such  a 
case  as  illustrated  by  Ben  Nanas  occurs?  Come  and  hear  what 
R.  Jacob  said  in  the  name  of  R.  Johanan :  Even  then,  R.  Ishmael 
differs  with  him.  But  with  whom,  then,  does  the  Halakha  pre- 
vail ?  Come  and  hear  what  Rabbin,  when  he  came  from  Pales- 
tine, said  in  the  name  of  Johanan :  R.  Ishmael  differs  with  Ben 
Nanas  even  in  the  case  illustrated  by  him,  and  the  Halakha  pre- 
vails also  in  this  case  with  R.  Ishmael.  Said  R.  Jehudah  in  the 
name  of  Samuel :  However,  if  the  man  who  said,  "  Leave  him 
alone,  I  will  pay,"  fulfils  his  promise  with  the  ceremony  of  a 
sudarium,  he  is  mortgaged.  Infer  from  this  that  in  case  of 
all  other  sureties  no  sudarium  is  necessary ;  and  this  differs  with 
R.  Na'hman,  who  said:  Only  a  surety,  in  the  presence  of  the 
court,  is  free  from  a  sudarium;  but  all  others  are  not.  The 
Halakha,  however,  prevails  that  with  a  surety  who  was  present 
when  the  money  w^as  delivered,  a  sudarium  is  not  needed,  but 
after  the  delivery  it  is  needed.  With  a  surety  appointed  by  the 
court  it  is  not  needed,  as,  because  of  his  pleasure  at  the  court 
choosing  him  to  be  the  surety,  he  makes  up  his  mind  to  pay, 
and  is  mortgaged. 

END  OF  TRACT  BABA  BATHRA  AND  OF  VOL.  VI.  (XIV.) 


Princeton   Theological  ^Seminar);   Libraries 


1    1012  01251    5823 


